Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 
to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 
to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 
are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  marginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 
publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  have  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 

We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  nan-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  from  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attribution  The  Google  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liability  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.  Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 


at  http  :  /  /books  .  qooqle  .  com/ 


94 

/V\95"3 


1 

n 

*« 

4- 

r  1    « 

11 

LEIAKD-SZANK)HD\JVMOR-VMVEHSnT 


1 72931 


0»  T^p  olr  oM  tyi/gar  4*^^»oil  6  »eii  iwox<tplw  A»o  tcfrw  8«  Toll  XP*rf"»n 
o.'toii  cal  8(i"iwuM*'»out  ■Jjui-  koI  »afn'xoirai  A/vcoa  Ka]  Jiopirij  8tevi  ln\^l(rafup,  ovx 
hSpovt  »«p'  hipan  ovW  BopSiptvt  ital  "EAAijrat  oiW  rorJom  «ai  $Of>i!ovr  AAA* 
tVe«p  fiXiot  ml  <t«\^kij  kjI  oupviii  «a)  >t)  «a)  [)4\mrira  koimI  »a« i I,  ivapi(*rai  Si 
£aA«j  &»'  dAAwr,  ePrin  Jrii  Aiiyoi.  to5  tuitb  Kixrpovrroi  real  ioui  rporofat  Vti- 
TpoTiuoinnji,  xai  J wiiti t/v  tmnui^fuv  M  wivrai  mvynivtv,  Input  itaf  ir4pon 
Tori  riiuivt  yi-i&vaoi  Ttjia!  «o)  rpeoTjyoplw  «a!  <n/jifl<i\c«ii  xpaiyrui,  aaOuacvpir  i 
flip  l^vSpaJi,  4i  Bi  rpartnipoit,  /irl  t4  tf«ia  r^)v  vintir  iSityiiyrrt  ouk  i«.fSij>An 
'Emu  "yip  JiroiTf)aSi'»-r«t  mrr/taifir  BI  JuviA'ai.iiapiar  CAurtfoi'-  of  6«  ^eiryoKT.t 
Eitntip  ikoi  t^itr  Sriaii.tfUHfiar,  iS.nBor  a.Sn  Sump  «i't  Kptytrb*  l/intairr-t  ri/r 
itiiiirt: — I'luUrili,  th  I -i'U'  cl  Osiride,  taction  67. 

[In   oppntiiiim   tn  those  who   represented   Dionysos,  the  nino.god,  u  m 
Hffiltni.!..  'in,  etc,,  Plutarch  urge*]: — 

"  For  the  gad  it  not  a  lifeleaa  tiling,  subject  u>  human  handling  and  control.  Rut 
from  the  fact  that  th«j  dispose  of,  and  bostow  upon  ua,  those  object*,  and  preserve 
than  to  us  perpetual  and  constant,  wc  have  considered  them  to  he  godt.  And  these 
god*  are  not  lift  i  anl  among  different  peoples,  they  are  not  Barbarian,  or  Hellenic,  not 
aoutht tii  or  nurthrrn  ;  but  just  it*  the  auu,  uud  the  moon,  and  the  heaven,  anil  fin 
earth,  and  the  am  art  common  to  all— though  they  receive  different  name*  from 
different  races — ao  too,  while  there  is  but  one  reason  that  orders  and  one  providence 
that  iupcrintrnrU  this  uiHTrrsr,  and  iidministTative  jmarers  am  set  over  all,  different 
honour*  and  appellations  huvn  bean  assigned  to  these  divine  beings  by  the  luan  of 
different  nations.  And  symbols  too  aro  employed,  some  of  an  obscure  charm  n  i .  b] 
Initiated  persona,  and  othera  of  a  plainor  description  by  others,  wilh  th»  vioar  uf 
guiding  ram's  conceptions  of  divine  things.  But  Uu*  practice  is  not  frco  from  danger! 
for  aomo  porsons,  deviating  from  tin)  truth,  have  dipped  into  superstition,  while 
eeking  to  avoid  th«  marah  of  Mrpcntition,  have  fallen  into  nthcistu  as  over  i 
pr.ep. 


nritTrniiTii 
raixrr-j  at  »i«rur.N  ivirra  sxd  sual. 


PREFACE. 


In  tlie  present  volume  I  have  reprinted,  with  tin- 
odd  ition  of  some  new  materials,  subsequently  collected, 

1  of  the  texts  on  which  they  are  founded,  a  series  of 
papers  on  the  thcogony,  mythology,  and  religious  ideas 
of  the  Vedio  poets,  and  other  subjects,  which  originally 
appeared  in  the  Journal  of  tho  Royal  Asiatic  Society 
of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland  for  1864,  and  tho  two 
following  years:  and  I  have  appended  a  new  section, 
on  life  and  manners  during  the  Vedic  age. 

I  have  not  thought  it  necessary  to  translate  all  the 
texts  to  which  I  have  referred  in  proof  of  tho  repre- 
sentations I  have  made.  To  have  done  so  would  have 
extended  the  work  to  an  unnecessary  length,  as  nu- 
merous verses  are  cited  for  the  sake  of  a  single  epithet. 
Some  of  tho  texts  aro  rendered  in  full ;  but  in  many, 
perliaps  most,  cases  I  have  contented  myself  with  giving 
tho  substance  of  several  passages  of  similar  or  identical 
purport. 

r  have  I  considered  it  necessary  to  supply  here  any 
summary  of  the  contents  of  the  volume,  such  as  was 
given  in  tho  prefaces  to  the  third  and  fourth  volumes,  and 

that  to  the  second  edition  of  tho  first  volume.  Tho 
summary  given  in  the  Table  of  Contents  seems  suffi- 
ciently ample  to  afford  the  reader  tho  means  of  readily 


TREFACE. 


ascertaining  what  he  may  expect  to  find  in  the  body 
of  the  work. 

I  have  tried  to  exhibit,  in  a  metrical  form,  the  sub- 
stance of  the  ideas  regarding  Indru  and  somo  other 
deities,  which  are  more  fully  illustrated  in  the  prose 
sections. 

I  should  also  further  remark  that  in  this  volume  I 
have  attempted  nothing  more  thau  to  exhibit  the  most 
prominent  features  of  the  gods, — such  as  display  them- 
selves on  the  surface.  It  must  remain  for  some  more 
profound  and  critical  scholar,  after  maturer  investigation, 
to  penctrato  moro  deeply  into  the  nature  and  essence  of 
the  Yedio  mythology,  to  estimate  and  represent  it  in  a 
more  philosophical  spirit,  to  investigate  the  age  of  the 
different  hymns,  and  to  determine  how  far  it  may  bo 
possiblo  to  trace  iu  them  a  development  of  the  mytho- 
logy, from  a  simpler  to  a  more  complex  state,  or  any 
other  modification  of  its  character  or  elements,  even 
before  it  began  to  show  any  tendency  towards  mono- 
theism. 

Meanwhile,  and  until  the  subject  shall  have  been 
treated  in  a  manner  more  befitting  its  importance,  the 
materials  which  I  have  brought  together,  arranged,  and 
interpreted,  will  enable  those  students  of  mythology 
who  aro  themselves  unable  to  consult  the  originals,  to 
form,  I  trust,  a  not  inaccurate,  and  a  tolerably  complete, 
conception  of  the  character  and  attributes  of  the  Indian 
deities  in  the  earliest  form  in  which  they  arc  represented 
to  us  by  written  records. 


CONTENTS. 


v  .  ft     PREFACE. 

1  —  7.  INTRODUCTION. 

2.      (1)  Affinities  of  tho  Indian  and  Grecian  mythologies. 

5.  (2)  Antiquity  and  peculiarity  of  the  Vcdic  mythology. 
■4.      (3)  Origin  of  coonogonic  and  mythologies]  speculation. 

6.  (4)   Variety  in  tho  conceptions  of  the  Vedio  pools. 

8  —  20.  SECTION  I.  Tub  Lvdus  Oom  oxmuluit,  as  nrruamrrsj* 
is  this  Eig-tzsa. 

8.  (1)  Yaeka's  classification  of  the  gods. 

9.  (2)  Their  number. 

(.3)  Their  origin  and  immortality. 
10.      (4)  Different  generations  of  gods  and  their  mutual  relations. 
18.      (5)  Their  powers  and  prerogatives. 

21  —  34.  8BCTION  II.   Dtafb  aito  Pbjthtt!  (Heave*  axd  Eabtii). 
22.      (1)  Heaven  and  Earth  described  as  the  universal  part u to. 
24.      (2)  Passages  to  the  same  effect  from  tho  classical  authors. 
30.      (3)  Heaven  and  Earth  elsewhere  spoken  of  as  created. 
32.      (4)  Speculations  about  their  origin. 


35—53.  SECTION  III.  Ann. 
35.      (1)  The  epithets  by  which  she  is  characterized. 
37.      (2)  Origin  of  the  conception  of  Aditi  according  to  Pr.feators 
Roth  and  Muiicr. 


Till 

CONTEXTS. 

37. 

(3)  Aditi  m  the  mother  of  the  Adityas. 

38. 

(4)  Is  Aditi  ever  identified  with  tho  sky  ? 

40. 

(6)  Aditi  seems  to  be  distinguished  from  the  Earth. 

42. 

(6)  Aditi  and  Diti. 

43. 

(7)  Aditi  mny  be  a  personification  of  universal  nature. 

46. 

(8)  Aditi  as  a  forgiver  of  sin. 

47. 

(9)  Aditi'*  position  ii  sometimes  a  subordinate  one. 

48. 

(10)  Creation  as  described  in  Rig-reda,  x.  72 ;  birth  of  Aditi, 

Daksha,  the  gods,  and  the  Adityas. 

54- 

-  57. "SECTION  IV.  Thk  Ann  via. 

58- 

-  76<J.  8ECTION  V.  Mrnu  ahd  Vjuii-na. 

58. 

( 1 )  General  idea  of  these  two  gods. 

59. 

(2)  Their  chief  characteristics. 

61. 

(3)  Functions  and  uttributcs  of  Yuraga. 

68. 

(4)  Conjoint  functions  and  attributes  of  Mitra  and  Vuruija. 

69. 

(5)  Hymn  addressed  to  Mitra  alone. 

69. 

(6)  Professor  Roth's  remarks  on  Mitra  and  Varuna. 

71. 

(7)  The  Indian  Mitra  and  the  Zoroastrian  Mithro. 

72. 

(8)  Is  there  any  historical  connection   between  Varans,   and 

Ahara  MaadaP 

72. 

(9)  Varuna  connected  with  tho  clement  of  water,  even  in  the 

Rig-voda. 

75. 

(10)  Explanations  by  Professors  Roth  and  Westergaard  of  tho 

process  by  which  Varuna  came  to  be  regarded  as  the 

regent  of  the  bob. 

76. 

(11)  Correspondence  of  Varuya  with  the  Greek  Uranoa. 

76,?. 

(1)  Varuna,  as  represented  ia  the  hymns, — a  metrical  sketch. 

77- 

•139.  SECTION  VI.  Ihnu. 

77. 

(1)  His  origin  and  parents;  his  wife. 

83. 

(2)  His  attributes,  pbynioal  and  mental. 

84. 

(3)  His  chariot  and  horses. 

86. 

(4)  His  thunderbolt  and  other  weapons  and  instruments. 

88. 

(5)  His  lore  of  toma-juicu  ;  hiB  combats  with  the  cloud-demons : 

explanation  of  tho  myth. 

• 

CONTEXTS.                                                    jx 

98. 

(5a)  India's  greatness. 

103. 

(6)  Hi*  relations  with  his  worshippers. 

115. 

(7)  Apparent  mutual    incongruity  of  some  of  the  preceding 

representations  of  Indra. 

116. 

(8)  Professor  Roth'*  theory  of  the  supersession  of  the  worship 

of  Yoruna  by  that  of  Indra. 

118. 

(9)  Supersession  of  Dyaus  by  Indra  according  to  Professors 

Benfey  and  Bre'al. 

120. 

(10)  Opinions  of  Professors  Roth,  Whitney,  Spiegel,  and  Dr.  F. 

Windiscumnnn  on  the  question  whether  Vuruua  and 

Ahura  Muxda  are  historioolly  connected. 

121. 

(11)  Whether  there  aro  any  passages  ia  tho  hymns  which  de~ 

emrely  show  that  Indra  wea  superseding  Varuna, 

126. 

(12)  Indra  at  represented  in  the  hymns, — a  metrical  ski-Mi. 

(1)  Invitation  of  Indra  to  tho  sacrifice.     (2)  Hi*  birth. 

(3)  His  arrival.    (4)  Indra  invited  to  drink  tho  soma- 

rlraught.     (6)  Praise  of  Soma.     (8)  India's  drinking 

song.     (7)  He  drinks  the  libation.     (8)  Indra,  attended 

by  the  Maruts,  sets  out  to  encounter  Vritru.     (9)  His 

conflict  with  Vritra.     (10)  His  greatness.     (11)  His 

relation  to  his  worshippers. 

MO— 142.  SECTION  YII.  Tabjakta. 

146—146.  SECTION  TUT.  Vim. 

147- 

-15*.  SECTION  IX.  Tua  Mabcts. 

147. 

( 1 )  Their  parentage,  epithets,  characteristics,  and  action. 

153. 

(2)  Their  relations  to  Indra,  and  the  rival  claims  of  the  two 

parties. 

155—161.  SECTION  X.  Scuta. 

155. 

(1)  The  two  sun-gods  separately  celebrated  in  the  hymns. 

157. 

(2)  Sorya's  parentage,  relations  to  the  other  gods,  epithets,  and 

functions. 

158. 

(3)  Subordinate  position  sometimes  assigned  to  him. 

159. 

(4)  Translations  in  prose  and  Terse  of  a  hymn  to  Siirya. 

X 

CONTENTS. 

162—170. 

SECTION  XL  Satitbi. 

162. 

(1)  His  epithets,  characteristics,  and  functions. 

tii.i. 

(2)  Passages  in  which  the  dentation  of  bis  name  eccins  to  bo 

alluded  to. 

1C8. 

(3)  Suvitri  sometimes  distinguished  from,  sometimes  identified 

with,  Surya. 

171- 

-180. 

SECTION  XII.  Ptoiux. 

171. 

(1) 

Functions  and  epithets  of  Pushan. 

174. 

(2)  Hymns  addressed  to  him  (i.  42;  vi.  53-vi.  58,  and  portions 

of  others)  quoted  and  translated. 

181- 

-198. 

SECTION  XIII.  Ushas. 

181. 

(1)  Three  hymns  to  Ushua  (i.  48 ;  i.  92 ;  i.  1 13),  and  portions  of 

others  quoted  and  translated. 

190. 

(2) 

Relatione  of  Ushas  to  other  deities. 

193. 

(3) 

Her  epithet*,  functions,  and  characteristics. 

190. 

C«) 

Ushas,  as  represented  in  the  hymns, — a  metrical  sketch. 

199—223. 

SECTION  XIII a.  Acsi. 

199. 

0) 

Hia  funotions. 

204. 

(2) 

His  births,  and  triple  existence 

211. 

(») 

His  epithets  and  charade riatics. 

214. 

(4)  High  divine  functions  ascribed  to  him. 

216. 

(*) 

His  relations  to  hia  worshippers. 

221. 

(6) 

Agni, — a  metrical  sketch. 

224—233. 

SECTION  XIV.  Tvahhtbi. 

224. 

(1) 

His  epithets,  functions,  and  rvlutioui. 

227. 

H  ia  daughter  and  hex  wedding. 

229. 

(3)  Hostility  of  Indra  and  TVaahtri- 

234- 

•257. 

SECTION  XV.  Tnz  Asywb. 

(1) 

Their  character  and  parentage,  their  relations  to  Surra, 

their  attributes  and  accompaniment*. 

2M. 

(2)  Legends  regarding  different  persons  delivered  or  t.ivouied 

by  them. 

CONTEXTS.                                                     ii 

248. 

(3)  Their  connection  with  other  deitiea. 

249. 

(4)  Their  relutiona  to  their  worshippers. 

250. 

(5)  Legend  of  Chyavanu  and  the  Aivina,  according  to  the 

Sutapatha  Bnlhmana  and  the  Mahabharata. 

256. 

(6)  Remarks  on  the  AJrins  by  Professor  Goldstucker. 

248—271.  SECTION  XVI.  Soma. 

259. 

(I)  Quotation  from  Euripides  relating  to  the  Greek  god  Dio- 

oyiaOi 

261. 

(2)  Prevalence  and  enthusiastic  character  of  the  ancient  Soma- 

worahip. 

262. 

(3)  How  the  soma-plont  was  brought  to  the  earth. 

264. 

(4)  Soma's  wire*. 

265. 

(5)  Properties  ascribed  to  the  soma-plant  or  its  presiding  d«;i!y. 

266. 

(6)  Dirine  powers  attributed  to  Soma. 

•269. 

(7)  Soma  associated  with  other  gods. 

270. 

(8)  Soma  in  the  post-vedic  age  a  name  of  the  moon. 

272—283.  8ECTIOX   XVII.   EtaKUMXI  asd  Buuhxxxu-kti. 

272. 

Professor  Roth's  account  of  this  deity. 

■27  1. 

(t)  Passages  in  which  he  is  celebnited  (R.V.  ii.  23;  ii.  24, 

1  ff. ;   ir.  50,  1,  4  ft  ;   x.  68,  6ft;   i.  40,  5f.  ;   L  190, 

1  f.  |  v.  43,  12  ;  x.  98,  7)  quoted  and  translated. 

(2)  Parentage  and  attributes  of  the  god. 

281. 

(3)  Whether  Bribaspati  and  Brahmagaapati  are  identifiable 

with  Agni ; — opinions  of  M.  Langlois,  and  Professors 

1 1    II.  WHaon  and  Max  Miilicr. 

284 — 335.  SECTION  XVIII.  Yima  jl^d  the  doctbutk  or  a  rcrrax 

urs. 

284. 

(1)  References  to  immortality  in  the  earlier  books  of  the  Big- 

Teda. 

M8 

(2)  References  to  the  Fathers  (the  souls  of  departed  ancestors) 

in  the  earlier  books  of  the  Rig-veda. 

(3)  Hymns  and  portions  of  hymns  relating  to  Tama  and  the 

Fathers,  via.,  x.  17,  1  f. ;  x.  10;  x.  11 ;  x.  15;  x.  16,etc., 

quoted  and  translated. 

• 


CONTENTS. 

Summary  of  the  conceptions  convened   in   tin-,  prccedic 
quotation*. 

Further  quotations  from  the  hymns  on  the  subject  or  para- 
dise, it*  pleasures,  the  continuance  then  of  the  family 
relations,  and  on  future  punishment. 

Quotation*  from  later  Indian  works,  the  BrAhmarjaa,  etc., 
with  some  remarks  of  Pro  feasor  Weber  on  their  doctrines 
regarding  the  destiny  of  the  soul. 

Yam  a  and  •  future  life, — a  metrical  sketch. 

Nachikctoa,  as  ancient  thoosophic  story,  metrically  rendered 
from  the  Taittiriya  Brdhraarjii  and  the  Ka(ha  Upanishad. 

SECTION  XIX.  Mnron  Drmnrra:  Tan*  Arm,  Attia- 
ak»  Aji  ExatId. 


SECTION  XX.  The  Goddesses  sectioned  rx  tbe  Ykdic 

BTVS&, 

Saras*  atl,  IJa,  BbaratI,  JIahl,  Hotra,  Varutri,  and  Dhuhanl. 
Apas,  the  Waters ;  hymn  to  the  Sindho,  Gangs,  YamunA, 

and  other  rirera. 
The  Apsarasea. 

AgniyT,  YarnnanI,  Atrial,  Kodaal. 

Aranjinl ;  (6)  Rika,  SinirslI,  and  Oungu;  (7)  Sraddhi. 
Lakshml  and  Sri. 

SECTION  XXI.  Piooana  ofthb  Vedjc  Bjajarox  towaxm 

abstract  coxcxrnoxs  or  the  Dettt. 
Introductory  remarks,  embracing  references  to  some  texts 

indicating  a  tendency  in  this  direction. 
Texts  of  a  more   decidedly  monotheistic  or  pantheistio 

character. 
Yiivakarman. 

Hiranyagarbha ;  (4)  Brahmarjaspati,  Daksha,  and  AHiti. 
Nonentity,  entity, and  the  One,  ILY.  x.  129, with  illustrations 

from  the  commentary  on  the  Taittiriya  Brahmaoa,  etc. 
The  Puruaha-sukta,  R.V.  x.  90;  the  hymn  on  rurusha, 

A.V.  x.  2,  etc. 


CONTENTS. 


xui 


378.      (7) 


Skmnbha  and  Brnhnn,  A.V.  x.  7  :  x.  8,  etc  :  with  remark* 
by  Professor  Qoldstucker  on  Bkambha, 

Prajapati. 

Print,  at  celebrated  in  A.V.  si.  4. 

Kohita,  as  celebrated  in  A.V.  xiii.  I,  and  xiii.  2. 

The  UiJihiahta,  u  celebrated  in  A.V.  xi.  7. 

Sacrificial  implements,  etc. ;  (13)  Anumali. 

The  Ox  or  Kettle;  (15)  the  Brahmachnrin. 

Kama,  as  celebrated  in  A.V.  is.  2. 

Kila,  or  Tim?,  as  celebrated  in  A.V.  xix.  63  and  54. 

General  remark*  on  the  preceding  passage*. 

Whether  polytheism  or  monotheism  was  the  earliest  form 
of  the  Aryan  religion :  opinions  of  Messrs.  Pietet,  I'flei- 
derer,  Scherer,  Reville,  and  Roth  on  this  snbjt ■■■ 

SECTION  XXII.  Mi^kliakrou*  otmx«  r*<m  thk  l'....- 

AXI>  ATnAHVA-VKDAS. 

Introductory  remarks. 

Hymn  to  Araoyanl,  R.V.  x.  H6. 

E.V.  ix.  1 12,  on  the  variety  of  human  aims. 

R.V.  x.  34,  the  gambler's  lament,  with  quotations  from  the 

A.V.  regarding  the  prevalence  of  gaming. 
R.Y.  x.  117,  in  praise  of  liberality. 
R.V.  x.  107,  in  praise  of  liberality  to  priests. 
R.V.   vii.   103,   Progs  reviving  in  the  autumn,  compared 

to  Brahman*  celebrating  their  rites. 
A.V.  vii.  12,  relating  to  t 
A  V    iii.  30,  incantation  for  concord  in  a  family. 
A.V   v.  30,  incantation  to  preserve  the  life  of  a  sick  man, 

or  r<.'ull  l l*i -  spirit  of  a  dead  rami. 
A  V.  vii.  53,  on  the  same  subject. 
A.V.  viii.  1,      „ 
A-V.  viii.  ■> 

450 — 173.  SECTION   XXIII.  Bun  KotM  0»  SociRrr  am.  L> 

TBK  VfcDlC  ACE,  AH  RKr-BRSEWTSn  I1V  TBI  BYMVS. 

450.      (1)  The  country  occupied  by  the  Vedio  people,  their  villages 
and  cities. 


300. 

(8) 

393. 

(9) 

395. 

(10) 

396. 

(H) 

398. 

(12) 

199. 

(") 

403. 

(16) 

407. 

(") 

410. 

(18) 

412. 

(19) 

421—449. 

421. 

422. 

0) 

424. 

(2) 

425. 

(3) 

431. 

<<) 

433. 

W 

435. 

(«) 

438. 

(7) 

439. 

(8) 

440. 

(•) 

442. 

(10) 

443. 

(11) 

44ft. 

(12) 

jrfT  CONTEXTS. 

451.      (2)  Their  religions  worship. 

453.  (3)  Did  the  Vedic  Indians  make  images  of  their  gods  ? 

454.  (4)  Kings  and  principalities. 

457.  (5)  Different  ranks  in  society, — rich  and  poor;  (6)  Domestic 
relations,  polygamy,  remarriage  of  widows,  freedom  of 
women,  levirical  marriages,  sexual  immorality. 

461.     (7)  Dress,  ornaments,  etc. 

463.  (8)  Food  and  drink ;  use  of  wine. 

464.  (9)  Professions  and  trades, — carpentry,  agriculture,  etc. 

466.  (10)  Amusements,  gambling,  dancers  or  actors;  (11)  Crime. 

467.  (12)  Animals,  wild  and  tame. 

469.  (13)  Wars,  armies,  armour,  and  weapons. 

472.  (14)  Poetry  and  speculation. 

473.  (15)  Conclusion. 

474.  ApresDix. 
479.  Ikdex. 


EREATA  ET  CORRIGENDA. 


Page  22  In  the  page-headings  from  here  to  p.  96,  for  "  The  Indian 
gods  generally"  tubttitute  the  headings  of  the   several 
subsections. 
36,  line  4,  for  "  tt&nah  "  read  "  tthdndh." 
46,    „   19,  for  "  Varunauta"  read  "  Faruna  uta." 
68,    „  10,  after  "foolish"  mart  "vii.  61,  5." 
86,   „     8  from  bottom,  after  "Indra"  ituert  "  vi.  21,  4." 
98,    „     9  from  bottom,  for  "jaghrtuho  "  read  "j'aghntuho." 
„  184,    „     6  from  bottom,  for  "  dare  "  read  "  brave." 
„  350,    „  21,  after  " quoted"  imert  "above,  p.  50,  and." 


INTRODUCTION. 


Iy  the  J'.-.nrth  Volume  of  this  work  I  have  collected  the  principal 
passage*  of  tho  V.-.ii,  Hymn*  which  refer  to  the  origin  of  the  nr.i- 
Terw,  and  to  the  characters  of  the  gods  Hirunyagarbhn,  Yttvtjfcu 
Viihnii,  Kudra,  and  the  goddess  Ambiku;  and  hare  compared  the 
representations  there  given  of  these  deities  with  the  later  stories 
■nd  speculations  on  the  same  subjects  which  are  to  be  found  in  the 
Brihraaiios,  and  in  the  mythological  poems  of  a  more  modern  date. 
In  the  coarse  of  these  researches,  I  have  also  introduced  occasional 
notices  of  some  of  the  other  Vedio  deities,  such  as  A.liti,  Indra, 
Yorurja,  etc. 

In  the  present  rolnme  I  propose  to  give  a  further  account  of  the 
cosmogony,  mythology,  and  religious  ideas  exhibited  in  the  hymns  of 
the  Eig-Tixla,1  and  to  compare  these  occasionally  with  tho  correspond- 
ing conceptions  of  the  early  Greeks. 


'  This  sobj«ct  has  bean  already  trestsd  by  Prufewor  Roth  In  hit  ditMftatirat  on 
"Tha  Legend  of  Jcamhid''  and  oa  "Tho  ll\g hwtt  God*  of  tho  Ariao  Rseos,"  ia  the 
Journal  of  the  Genua  Oriental  Soeuty,  it.  41"  ff.  and  vi.  67  B.  ;  by  the  same  writer, 
sad  by  ProfcwoT  W  tune y,  in  tht  Journal  of  the  American  Oriental  Society,  iii.  291  ff., 
and  331  IT. ;  by  Prcfnaor  Both  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  rii. 
i'raAsnr  Max  Miiller  id  the  Oxford  Eany*  for  18.5(1  (repriolad  in  Ohipa 
tima  B  Otmaa  Wartihop.  *o4.  ii   pp    1  IT.},  and  in  hi  i.  it  Anc.  Sanaa.  Lit. 

Sf.  631  If. ;  by  Profneor  Wilson  in  the  Prefaces  to  the  three  toU.  of  hi*  translation 
of  toe  Rig-vcda;  by  U.  Lecj,-lou  ia  Uiu  note*  to  hi*  French  Irani  Utioa  of  the  Rig- 

1 


INTBODCCTION. 


cut  for 
10  ruco 
iuropc. 
d  when 
oted  to 


•  "•  '  (0  JJhtititt  tf  the  Indian  and  Grecian  txytholoyiet. 

• 

."  In  the  8ccond  Volume  of  this  work  I  have  slated  the  reasons, 
drawn  from  history  and  from  comparative  philology,  which  exist  for 
cone lutling  that  the  Brahmunicul  Indians  belong  to  the  same 
as  the  Greek,  the  Latin,  the  Teutonic,  and  other  cations  of  Ei 
If  this  conclusion  bo  well-founded,  it  is  evident  that  at  the  timo 
the  several  branches  of  the  great  Indo-European  family  separated 
commence  their  migrations  in  the  direction  of  their  future  homes,  they 
must  have  powsscd  in  common  a  lnrgo  stock  of  religious  and  mytho- 
logical conceptions.  This  common  mythology  would,  in  the  natural 
course  of  events,  and  from  the  action  of  various  cauftaa,  undergo  a 
gradual  modification  analogous  to  that  undergone  by  tho  common 
language  which  bad  originally  been  spoken  by  idl  these  tribes  during 
the  period  of  their  union;  ond,  in  the  one  case  as  in  the  other,  this 

:ii'i;;i;ir;ili.ill   |DjU   n-.uiiir    in    lln-    liillrrwil    liicn  ,1    ;.,v .  I  Qg  I  ii  ir.ieUT, 

corresponding  to  tho  diversity  of  the  influences  to  which  they 
severally  subjected.     Wo  shall  not,  therefore,  be  surprised  to  find 
even  the  oldest  existing  mythology  of  the  Indians  differs  widely  from 
tho  oldest  known  mythology  of  the  Greeks,  ouy  more  thou  we  arc  to 
find  that  the  Sanskrit  in  its  earliest  surviving  forms  is  a  very  ditlereat 
language  from  tho  earliest  extant  Greek,  6inco  tho  Vedic  hymns,  tho 
most  primitive  remains  of  Sanskrit  poetry,  data  from  a  period  nlun 
tho  two  kindred  races  had  been  separated  for  perhaps  above  a  thousand 
years,  and  the  most  ancient  monuments  of  Greek  literature  are  still 
more  recent.     Yet,  notwithstanding  this  long  sepurutiou,  wo  might 
reasonably   anticipate   that  some  fragments  of  the   primitive    Indo- 
European  mythology  should  have  remained  common  to  both  the  eastern 
and  the  western  branches  of  the  family  ;  while,  at  the  same  time,  wo 
should,  of  course,  expect  that  such  traces  of  common  religious 
ccptions  would  be  more  distinctly  perceptible  in  the  older  than  in 
more  recent  literary  productions  of  the  several  peoples.     And  such,  it 
point  of  fact,  turns  out  to  be  tho  case.     Tho  mythology  of  tho  Vcds 

veda;  by  Professor  Wcbrr,  and  by  Drs.  Kubn  sad  Biihlcr,  etc.  etc.  Tho  substance- 
of  toino  of  tbu  following  sections  is  repeated  or  eondcnicd  in  a  paper  which  1  read 
before  ths  Royal  Society  of  Edinburgh  in  18C*.  See  the  Traotacuonsoi  that  Society, 
\ol.  »»iii.  port  iii.  pp.  617  tf. 


acter, 

1  U  -: 
from 


INTUODIV 


I 


does  exhibit  in  some  points  a  certain  similarity  to  that  of  Homer  and 
Heaod,  and  the  mutual  resemblance  between  tbo  religious  ideas  of  those 
ancient  works  is,  upon  the  whole,  greater  thau  that  existing  between 
tbo  later  Indian  and  the  Greek  pantheon*.  X  say  that,  upon  the  whole, 
the  older  Indian  mythology  coincides  more  nearly  with  the  Greek  than 
tho  later  Indian  mythology  does.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  the  later 
Indian  system  presents  some  points  of  resemblance  with  the  Greek  which 
the  Vedic  system  does  not  exhibit.  I  allude  to  the  fact  that  we  find 
in  the  Indian  epic  poems  and  Puraijos  a  god  of  the  sea,  a  god  of  war, 
and  a  goddess  of  lore,  who  (the  last  two,  at  least,)  are  unknown  to  tho 
oldest  parts  of  the  Veda,  and  yet  correspond  in  a  general  way  to  the 
Poseidon,  the  Arcs,  and  the  Aphrodite  of  the  Greeks.  Personifications 
of  this  sort  may,  however,  be  either  the  product  of  an  early  instinct 
which  leads  men  to  create  divine  representatives  and  superintendent-* 
of  every  department  of  nature,  as  well  as  of  human  life  and  action ;  or 
they  may  arise  in  part  from  a  later  process  cf  imagination  or  reflection 
which  conducts  to  tho  same  result,  and  from  a  love  of  systematic  com- 
pleteness which  impels  a  people  to  fill  up  any  blanks  in  their  earlier 
mythology,  and  to  be  always  adding  to  and  modifying  it.  Ro- 
acmhlances  of  this  last  description,  though  they  aro  by  no  means 
accidental,  ore  not  necessarily  anything  more  than  tho  results  of 
niraiUr  proccssos  going  on  in  nations  possessing  the  same  general 
tendencies  and  characteristics.  But  tlio  older  points  of  coincidence 
between  the  religious  ideas  of  the  Greeks  and  the  Indians,  to  which 
wfcraiiosj  was  first  made,  are  of  a  different  character,  and  are  tho  un- 
doubted remains  of  on  original  mythology  which  was  common  to  the 
ancestors  of  both  races.  This  is  shown  by  the  fact  that,  in  the 
cases  to  which  I  allude,  it  is  not  only  tho  functions,  but  tho  names, 
of  tbo  gods  which  correspond  in  both  literatures. 


(2)  Antiquity  and  peculiarity  of  the  Vedie  mythology. 

Bat  the  Talae  of  the  Vedio  mythology  to  the  general  scholar  docB 
not  consist  merely  in  tho  circumstance  that  n  few  religious  conceptions, 
and  the  names  of  two  or  three  deities,  are  common  to  it  with  the 
Greek.  It  is  even  more  important  to  observe  that  the  earliest  monu- 
ments of  Indian  poetry,  consisting,  as  they  do,  almost  exclusively  of 


INTIIODTTCTIOX. 


aore 
th. 
any 

tlian 


hymns  in  praise  of  the  national  deities,  and  being  the  productions  of 
an  age  far  anterior  to  that  of  Homer  and  Ilcniod,  represent  a  more 
ancient  period  of  ii  HgUKU  dovdoptnotlt  than  we  discover  in  tho  Greek 
poet*,  and  disclose  to  us,  in  th"  curliest  stapes  of  formation,  a  varioty  of 
myths  which  a  few  centuries  later  had  assumed  a  fixed  and  recognised 
form.'  It  is  also  to  be  noticed  that,  from  the  copiousness  of  tho  ma- 
terials they  supply,  the  hymns  of  the  Rig-veda  furnish  a  sj  all  far  more 
minute  illustnitious  of  the  natural  workings  of  tho  human  mind,  in 

d  of  its  infancy,  upon  matters  of  religion  than  we  con  find  in  at 
otlui  literature  whatever.  From  their  higher  antiquity,  Utett  Indian 
hymns  arc  also  fitted  to  threw  light  on  the  meaning  of  a  few  points  of 
the  Greek  system  which  were  before  obscure.  Thus,  as  wo  shall  see, 
tho  Indian  Dyaus  (sky,  or  heaven)  explain*  tho  original  meaning  of 
the  Greek  Zeus,  and  the  Sanskrit  Varan  a  gives  a  clue  to  tho  proper 
signification  of  Ouranos. 

As  in  tho  firxt  votaBO  of  this  work,  2nd  edition,  pp.  2-4,*  I  hare 

stated  tho  grounds  on   which  tho  Vedic  hymns  arc  assumed  to  hare 

been  composed  nt  a  period  considerably  mora  than  a  thousand  years 

M  our  era,  I  shall  here  take  their  greiit  antiquity  for  granted,  and 

^ome  nccount  of  their  cosmogony  and  mythology. 


(3)  Origin  of eotmogonie  and  mythological  *p#ntlation. 

To  a  simple  mind  reflecting,  in  the  early  ages  of  the  world,  on 
origin  of  all  things,  various  solutions  of  tho  mystery  mijrht  naturally 
prvM-nt  themselves.  Botteluasa  the  production  of  the  existing  universe 
would  be  ascribed  to  physical,  and  nt  other  times  to  spiritual,  powers. 
On  tho  one  hand,  tho  various  processes  of  growth  and  change  which  are 
constantly  visible  in  all  the  departments  of  nature  might  have  suggested 
1I1 1  notion  of  the  world  having  gradually  arisen  out  of  nothing,  or  out 
of  a  pre-existing  nn developed  substance.  Such  an  idea  of  the  spontan- 
eous evolution  of  all  things  out  of  a  primeval  principle,  OT  out  of  indis- 
crete m«tf  pt,  called  Prnkriti,  became  at  a  Inter  period  tho  foundation  of  tho 
Sankhya  philosophy.     Or,  again,  perceiving  light  and  form  and  colonr 

•  Set  Profcu-T  Mm  Vi  '  J  n  "  C-'-pmrtrsMytMoEy."  In  tho  Oxfwd 

Rm  1  Si>e,  p.  47,  and  the  reprint  in  Chips  from  a  Gsmus  wVjsbop,  p.  Vol 
»  Bee  also  Vol.  II.  pp  206  ff.  nad  Vol.  III.  2nd  ed.  217  f.  sad  224. 


INTRODUCTION-. 


and  beauty  emerge  slowly  every  morning  out  of  &  gloom  ia  whi.li  all 
object*  had  before  appeared  to  be  cenf"uml.  .1,  tit.-  o.i-l v  speculator 
might  conceive  that  in  like  manner  the  brigbtMM  and  order  of  the 
world  around  him  had  sprang  necesvirily  out  an  antecedent  night  in 
which  the  clement*  of  all  things  had  existed  together  in  indistiiifruish- 
able  chaos,  Aud,  ia  fact,  this  idua  of  the  universe-  having  arisen  out 
of  darkness  and  chaos  is  the  doctrine  of  one  of  the  later  hymns  of  the 
R.V.  (x.  129).  Or,  on  the  other  hand,  contemplating  tho  resulta 
effected  by  human  design  and  energy,  and  arguing  from  the  leas  to  tho 
greater,  or  rutltcr  impelled  by  an  irresistible  instinct  to  create  other 
beings  alter  his  own  likeness/  but  endowed  with  higher  powers,  the 
ancient  thinker  might  feel  that  the  well-ordered  frame  of  nature  could 
not  possibly  hare  sprung  into  being  from  any  blind  necessity,  but  must 
ha**  been  the  work  of  a  conscious  and  intelligent  will.  In  this  stage  of 
thought,  however,  before  the  mind  hod  risen  to  tho  conception  of  one 
supreme  creator  nod  governor  of  all  things,  tho  various  departments  of 
nature  were  apportioned  between  different  gods,  each  of  whom  v, 
pined  to  preside  ovor  his  own  especial  domain.  But  those  domains  were 
imperfectly  denned.    One  blended  with  another,  and  might  thus  be  sub- 

m  part,  to  the  rule  >,(  more  than  one  deity.  Or,  according  to  tho 
various  relations  under  which  they  were  regarded,  these  several  pro- 
vinces of  the  creation  might   be  subdivided   among   a  plurality  of 

ties,  or  varying  forms  of  the  same  divinity.  These  Paamln 
might  be  illustrated  by  numerous  instances  drawn  from  the 
mythology.  In  considering  tho  literary  productions  of  this  simo 
period,  wo  further  find  that  as  yet  the  difference  between  mind  and 
matter  was  but  imperfectly  conceived,  and  that,  uithmi^h,  in  eomo 
cases,  tho  distinction  between  soma  particular  prorinco  of  nature  and 
the  deity  who  was  supposed  to  preside  over  it  was  clearly  discerned, 
yet  in  other  instances  the  two  things  were  confounded,  and  the  same 
visible  object  was  at  different  times  rngarded  diversely,  as  being  either 
a  portion  of  the  inanimate  universe,  or  an  animated  being,  anil  a  cm- 

♦  Ari.l  Pel.  i.  '},  7.  Knl  rols  ttolt  ti  Jii  ravr»  rlrnf  ftr\  $mri\tt* ir«mi.  8>« 
ml  Avrri  *■  fAr  fri  tai  rvr,  M  li  ▼»  &.p\<uor  J&aaiXiinrrc  Z-rxtp  H  «•}  to  Wtj 
itwrmi  ifmiwawa  it  AVltfwnroi.   uvtu   nal   ra'ut   flitiui  iw  Stir.       "  And    all    men 

rrpraxat  lb* god*  a»  Wine  rolnl  by  a  king,  because  they  th«mu>l*-M.  bM»  i  sOV .  Of 
fornwriy,  we»  »  guterned.  And  just  a*  m*«  regard  Hie  forma,  so  also  llioy  w-vlcr 
ta*  liws,  sf  Uw  gods,  to  b«  «mil«  to  their  own." 


6  iNTRODrrnoN-. 

mical  power.  Thus,  in  the  Yedic  hymns,  the  sun,  the  sky,  nnd 
earth,  are  severally  considered,  sometimes  u  natural  objects  governed 
by  particular  god*,  and  sometimes  as  themselves  gods  who  generate  and 
oontrol  other  beings. 


(4)    Variety  in  the  conceptions  of  the  Vedie  poet*. 

The  varieties  and  discrepancies  which  are  in  this  way  incident  to  all 
nature- worship,  are,  in  the  case  of  the  Vedio  mythology,  augmented 
by  the  number  of  the  poets  by  whom  it  was  moulded,  nnd  tho 
of  time  during  which  it  continued  in  process  of  formation. 

The  Itig-veda  consists  of  more  than  a  thousand  hymns,  composed 
successive  generation*  of  poets  during  a  period  of  many  centuries.  In 
these  songs  the  authors  gave  expression  not  only  to  the  notions  of  the 
supernatural  world  which  they  had  inherited  from  their  ancestors,  but 
also  to  their  own  new  conceptions.  la  that  early  ago  the  imaginations 
of  men  were  ]••  "Unly  opon  to  impressions  from  without;  and  in  a 
country  like  India,  where  the  phenomena  of  nature  ore  often  of  the 
most  striking  description,  .such  spectators  could  not  fail  to  bo  over- 
powered by  their  influence.  The  creative  faculties  of  tho  poeta  were 
thus  stimulated  to  the  highest  pitch.  In  the  starry  nky,  in  the  dawn, 
in  the  morning  sun  sculiug  the  heavens,  in  tho  bright  clouds  floating 
across  the  air  and  assuming  all  manner  of  mugniucent  or  fantastic 
shapes,  in  the  waters,  in  the  rain,  in  the  storm,  in  the  thunder  and 
lightning,  they  beheld  the  presence  and  agency  of  different  divine  powers, 
propitious  or  angry,  whoso  characters  corresponded  with  those  of  tho 
physical  operations  or  appearances  in  which  thoy  were  inuaifested.  In 
tho  hymns  composed  under  the  influence  of  any  grand  phenomena,  tho 
authors  would  naturally  ascribe  a  poeulinr  or  exclusive  importance  to 
the  doilies  by  whose  action  these  appeared  to  have  boon  produced,  und 
would  celchratu  their  greatness  with  proportionuto  fervour.  Other 
poets  might  attribute  the  same  natural  appearances  to  tho  agency  of 
other  deities,  whoso  greatness  they  would  iu  like  manner  extol  •  while 
others  again  would  devote  themselves  in  preference  to  the  service  of 
some  other  god  whose  working  thoy  seemed  to  witness  in  some  other 
department  of  creation.  In  this  wsy,  while  the  same  traditional 
divinities  were  acknowledged  by  ull,  the  power,  dignity,  and  functions 


INTE0DDCT10N. 


of  each  particular  gofi  might  bo  differently  estimated  by  different  poets, 
or  perhaps  by  the  same  poet,  according  to  the  external  influences  by 
which  ho  wu  awed  or  inspired  on  each  occasion.  And  it  might  even 
happen  that  some  ilcity  who  hud  formerly  remained  obscure,  would,  by 
the  genius  of  a  new  poet  devoted  to  his  worship,  be  brought  out  into 
greater  prominence.  In  such  circumstances  it  need  not  surprise  us  if 
we  find  one  particular  power  or  deity  in  one  place  put  above,  and  in 
another  place  subordinated  to,  somu  other  god ;  sometimes  regarded  as 
the  creator,  and  sometimes  as  the  croatcd.  This  is  very  prominently 
illustrated  in  the  case  of  the  Vedic  divinities,  Dyaus  and  PrithivJ, 
Heaven  and  Earth,  to  which  tho  second  Section  shall  be  devoted,  and 
by  other  instances  which  will  bo  brought  to  light  in  the  following 
MM 


SECTION    L 

THE    INDIAN    GODS   GKXERALLY,    AS   REPRESENTED  IN  TEE 

BIO-TEDA. 

Before  proceeding  to  offer  somo  description  of  the  powors,  functions, 
characters,  and  mutual  relations  of  tho  several  deities  celebrated  in 
tin'  Hig-veda,  I  shall  give  some  account  of  the  general  conceptions 
entertained  by  the  Vedic  poets  and  some  later  Imli.ui  writers,  regard- 
ing their  classes,  numbers,  origin,  nnd  duration- 


(1)  Yd  ska' t  elattijication  of  the  god*. 

The  following  classification  of  the  Vedic  gods  is  adduced  by  Yiska* 
in  his  Xirukta  (vii.  5),  as  being  that  giTcn  by  the  ancient  expositors 
who  preceded  him:  Titrah  eva  ietatdh  iti '  Xairuktdh  .it;nih  jirithivl- 
* thO no  Vdyur  rd  Indro  rd  antarik*ha-*thun«h  Suryo  dyu-ilhdnah  \ 
t'Uum  miihAbh&jy&d  ekailuuytih  api  bahuni  wmadheyAni  bhavanti 
apt  rd  karma-prithakte&d  yathd  hotil  adhrttryur  brakma  udg&tu  Uy 
apij  (katya  tatah  \  api  rd  prithag  eta  ryuh  |  pritkatj  hi  ttutaya  bhttanti 
tatha  ahhidhan&ni  |  "There  are  three  deities  according  to  the  ex- 
pounders of  tho  Veda  {Nairvkt&K),  viz.  Agni,  whose  plnco  is  on  the 
earth;  Vflyn,  or  India,  whose  place  is  in  tho  air;  and  Sflrya  (the 
sun),  whose  place  is  in  the  sky.8  These  deities  receive  severally 
many  appellations,  in  consequence  of  their  greatness,  or  of  the  diversity 
of  their  functions,  as  the  names  of  holri,  adhvaryu,  brahman,  and  ««£• 


•  For  some  account  of  Yinla'i  work  mm  tie  second  vol.  of  tliii  work,  pp.  162 
ITS,  and  ddt  article  "  On  the  Interpretation  of  the  Veda  "  in  the  Journ.  It.  A.  8. 
1806,  pp.  318  (T. 

4  Compare  R.V.  X.  168,  I.  Siirye  no  ii*a$  p/itu  TTito  atttarikthal  \  Agnir  imA 
fi~trtki*Mipih  |  "Mny  At  Sun  prewrre  ui  from  the  iky,  Vujru  from  the  air,  and 
Agni  from  thing*  on  earth." 


IMA 


THE  INDIAN  CODS  AS  REPEESENTED  IN  THE  BIG-VEDA.  9 

gdtru  ore  applied  to  one  and  the  same  person,  [according  to  the  parti- 
cular sacrificial  office  which  he  happens  to  be  fulfilling:].  Or  these  gods 
may  all  be  distinct,  for  the  praises  uddrcsscd  to  them,  and  also  their 
appellation*,  ore  distinct. " :  Pursuing  the  triple  classification  ben 
indicated,  Yaaka  proceeds  in  the  latter  part  of  his  work  to  divide  the 
different  deities  or  forms  of  the  sumo  deities,  specified  in  the  fifth 
chapter  of  the  ulea  or  Vocabulary,  which  is  prefixed  to  his 

work,  into  tho  three  orders  of  terrestrial  (N'irukta  vii.  14-ix.  43), 
intermediate  or  aerial  (x.  1-xi.  50),  and  celestial  (xii.  1-46).  I 
•hall  not  reproduce  these  list*,  which  could  not  in  n>mo  places  bo 
thoroughly  understood  without  explanation,  as  tln'y  include  several 
deities  whoso  precise  chnraotor  nnd  iiletttitictition  with  other  divinities 
are  disputed,  and  embrace  a  number  of  objects  which  are  not  goda  at 
ut  arc  constructively  regarded  as  such  from  their  being  addressed 
in  the  hymn*.' 


(2)  Thtir  number. 

The  gods  are  spoken  of  in  various  text*  of  the  Rig-vcdo  as  being 
thirty-three  in  number.     Thus  it  U  said  in  R.V.  i.  :'.!,  11  :  •' Cento 

T  This  postage  is  qsotcd  more  at  length  in  tho  4th  foL  of  thi>  work,  pp.  I XS  ff. 

*  Th*  following  Is  the  manner  in  wlueii  Viska  classifies  the  hjmm.  I  qu 
elassrtlearion  at  iatrosetitig,  though  unoonnsctcd  with  me  present  subject :— Ho  divides 
i.  1)  the  hymns,  or  portion*  of  hymns,  devote!  to  tlio  pr>Lx  of  the  gods  into 
three  elasaca,  vix.  (I)  those  in  which  th«  gods  are  addzsasad  hi  Hm  third  person  as 
iWtit.  aa  "  Indra  rales  over  heaven  and  earth  "  (x.  89,  ID),  ctr. ;  (2)  those  Thioh  ad* 
drra  thesB  in  the  second  person  as  present,  such  as  '•  O  Indra,  ilay  thou  our  enemies  " 
t).  rte.;  tad  (3)  thnsr  in  whinh  tho  author  speak*  in  tho  fint  person,  and 
aaoat  hirneeU.  Of  these  the  first  two  elanet  art  tho  moat  numerous.  Again  some  of 
th«  hymns  ar»  tn-rrplj  laudatory,  *»,  "  I  declare  th«  valorou*  dood*  of  Indra,"  It  V. 
i.  81,  I  i  others  contain  proven,  not  praixs,  as,  "  may  I  see  clearly  with  my  eyes,  be 
radiant  In  my  face,  and  hear  distinctly  with  my  cars  "  Again,  there  are  imprecations, 
as,  **taay  I  die  to-day,  if  I  am  a  Yatudli&na  "  (vii.  104,  16),  etc.  Again,  a  aartirulnr 
state  et*  things  is  described,  as,  ''there  was  then  neither  dnith  oor  iitunm 
((.'199,  2).  Again,  a  lamentation  i»  uttered,  as,  "  the  bright  god  will  fly  n«»y  and 
«fl»«r  retan"  (l.  W,  15).  Or,  praxis  and  blnrno  bjv>  t-xpmM-d,  as,  "  he  who  oat* 
alnae,  is  alone  in  his  guilt"  (x.  117,  0),  and  "  the  house  of  tho  liberal  man  It  Ida  a 
pooal  wharc  Inlaw*  grow"  (v.  107,  10) ;  and  in  the  tamo  way,  in  tlic  hymn  to  Dice, 
(rambling  is  reprehended,  and  agriculture  praised  (x.  3-1.  13).  -  That  the  viewi  with 
srhieh  thai  riakit  bsasU  the  hyairu  were  very  various."  The  nrigiatl  text  of  nu«t 
at  tka*  paaaigc  will  be  found  in  the  3rd  vol.  of  thi*  work,  p.  21 1. 


10 


TUB  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY, 


hither,  Kisatyaa,  Asrins,   together  with  the  thrice  elerwi  gods,* 
drink  oar  nectar"  (d  nGiatyu   tribhir  ekGdaiair  iha-  dtxebhir   yOtam 
mad hit pt yam  Aicitui). 

Again,  in  i.  4o,  2  :  "  Agni,  tho  wiso  god*  lend  an  ear  to  their 
shipper.     God  with  the  ruddy  steeds,  who  Invest  praise,  hring  hit 
those  three-  and  thirty  "  (inuhfitdno  hi  iahuhe  daedk  Agnt  ciehtUumk  | 
Ian  rohidaica  aireamu  trayatlrimioUm  i  vaha). 

i.  130,  11  (=Teitt.  S.  i.  -1, 10,  1).  "Ye  gods,  who  arc  eleven  in 
sky,  who  are  eleven  on  esrtb,  and  who  in  your  glory '"  arc  cloven 
dwellers  in  the  (atmospheric)  waters,  do  ye  welcome  this  our  offering  " 
{ye  dttuto  did  ekudaia  atha  prithiryGm  adki  tkadaia  ttha  \  aptukthito 
mahinO.  ek&daia  itha  U  depdso  yttjnam  imatTi  jwJiadhram). 

iii.  6.  9.  "Agni  bring  hither  according  to  thy  wont  and  gladden  the 
BON  and  thirty  gods  with  their  wives"  (patnHatat  triihiaUm  tritiii 
cha  devtin  auuahcadham  Cxahi  mtldayatva). 

viii.  28,  I.  "  May  tho  three  over  thirty  gods  who  have  visited 
sacrificial  grass,  recognize  us,  and  give  us  double"  "  (y*  trimiati  (ray a 
paro  dcvuiio  bar  fur  u&adan  \  cidann  aha  diiti  'sanan). 

viii.  30,  2.  "  Ye  who  are  the  three  and  thirty  gods  worshipped 
Manu  (or  man),  when  thua  praised,  may  yo  become  the  destroyers  of 
our  foes"  (iti  ntulilio  atatha  riifidato  yt  atha  trayai  cha  trifnlceh  cha 
manor  davuh  yajniyusah). 

viii.  35,  3.  "  Asvins,  associated  with  all  the  thrice  eleven  gods,  wit 
the  Waters,  tho  Marata,  the  Bbrigun,  and  united  with  tho  Dawn 
tho  San,  drink  the  soma"  (vihair  dovais  tribhir  ekadasair  ilia  adbhi 
tnarudbhir   Bhrigubhih  aaehiibhuvH    \   lajoshaia    Uahatu   S&ryena 
ivmam  pibuta  Aicitui). 


*  Tlmt  is,  ts  Sftyuna  explains,  those  included  in  thu  three  cluxua,  coauiting  esei 
of  eleven  gods,  specified  in  the  wrte  (i.  1 39,  11),"  Ye  eleven  gods  who  exist  in  i 
«ky,"  etc. 

io  On  this  Siyana  remarlu,  "Although,  according  to  the  text.  'There  sic 
three  K»ds,'  ( Nirukta,  rii.  5),  the  deities  who  represent  the  earth,  etc.,  arc  but  I 
•  ::il  i'  .rough  their  greatness,  is.  their  respective  varied  manifestations,  they  amount 
to  thirty-three,  necordinj  to  the  saying,  'other  manifestations  of  Him  exut  is 
different  pLacee.*"  Compere  8p.  Br.  xi.  6,  3,  4 ff.  The  Atharva-veda  (x,  9,  12) 
divide*  the  gods  into  dwellers  in  the  «lty,  air,  sod  earth  (y*  drvith  divukaJo  onUriAth*- 
niia»  tXa  ytyt  thn  unt  ihunynm  iMi).  And  the  same  Ytda  I-  30,  3,  speaks  of  the 
pxb  who  dwell  in  the  iky,  on  earth,  in  the  air,  in  plants,  animals,  and  waters  | 
ittrriA  diti  itha  yt  pfitMryhSt  yt  antankthe  othadhhku  peVu/ku  aptu  anlah). 

11  Roth  says  thst  rfritu  doe*  uot  ineau  doubk,  but  atiureuly,  ttjteciniii/. 


AS  KEPRESEJfTED  IS  THE  RIC-YEDA.  H 

ix.  92,  4.  "0  pure  Soma,  nil  theee  gods,  thrice  eleven  in  number, 
arc  in  thy  secret,"  etc.1'  {lava  te,  Soma  pacam&na  ninye  vtictdeuut  irayah 
ekadaia). 

This  number  of  thirty- three  gods  is  in  the  Kitapathn  Bruhmnnn 
(jr.  6,  7,  2)  explained  as  made  up  of  8  Vasus,  1 1  Rudroe,  and  12 
Adityas,  together  with  Oyaus  and  Pritbirl  (llearcn  and  Earth),  while 
Frajipati  make*  a  thirty-fourth  (athfau  Vatatah  tkudaia  Rudrak  dt£- 
data  Adity&h  imt  tva  dydcd-pfithicl  trayattriihiyau  \  lrtiy**frini$tid  r«i 
dsrak  |  Prajcpatii  ekalustriihiah).  Or,  according  to  another  passage 
(xi.  6,  3,  5),  the  thirty-throe  are  made  up  in  the  same  manner  with 
-•option  of  Inclra  and  Prnjiipnti,  who  ore  substituted  for  Heaven 
and  Earth  (to  rkalriAiad  Jndrai  chaixa  Prajiipatii  eba  trayattrifniau).1* 

This  enumeration  could  scarcely  have  been  the  one  contemplated  in 
the  hymns,  as  we  hare  seen  that  one  of  the  texta  above  quoted  (R.V.  i. 
139, 1 1)  assigns  eleven  deities,  who  must  probably  have  been  all  of  the 
same  class,  to  each  of  the  three  spheres,  sky,  air,  and  earth.1*    It  is 

"  Tbii  number  of  thirty-three  gods  b  referred  to  in  a  hymn  to  the  sun  in  the 
M«h»bhanU  iii.  171.  m  joining  in  the  worship  of  that  doity :  Trnya*  MiMI  eha 
r+i  d**iK  St*  also  v.  14019  nnd  15463  of  tlio  umo  third  book ;  book  Ir.  1769, 
•ad  boek  xiii.  710'.'.  According  to  the  RfimfiyanA,  Arenyak&noh  11,  14  f.  (Bom- 
bay ed)  Adib'  was  the  mother  of  Lhir'.y-ihrae  god*,  Adityaa,  Yutua,  and  Iiudrua,  and 
»f  the  two  AiriM  (jUitjriiiit  j*jnirr  derail  troytutrimitd  anndnma  |  Aitity'iS  Vstan 
I  Ahinau  tka  paramtapd).  la  Gorrtaie't  adit,  the  itate  oeeuf*  In  20. 16. 
i  the  S'p.  Br.  liL  8,  *,  29.  Th«T«ittJrfya  8anhi«,  ii.  J, «,  1,  «ayi  that  Prajft. 
i  had  thirty-three  daughter*,  whom  he  gare  in  mmrri<u;e  to  Soma.  The  A.V.  xi. 
,  a*y*  that  Prajapati  niude  thirty-three  worlds  out  of  th«  cduoa  olUtiun,  So* 
i  R.V.  rui.  38,9,  ViUkhilya,  *.  1  The  Aitarcya  Brihmann,  ii.  18,  a»yn  :  frayat- 
trwiiod  tat  dnaj  tomapai  trayaitr\S»'ad  aiomapah  |  uAfnu  VaweoS  ikmltia  I 
dridaia  Adit  yak  PrafipatU  e&a  Vaihafkarat  tM  it$  dnah  tmapnh  |  iiadala  praya- 
f-H  tkidaia  amiyiji}  ikttdai*  nptybjah  ,tt  aicnuipnh paJu-b».ytwak  |  toauna  aooupiiH 
i  iWw«*>«ii»wn|'' Thirty. threoa^ibara  drinkers  of  Soma,  »nd  thirty-Uirconr* 
oat.  Tbt  eight  Vmun  the  cScvtu  Budraa,  the  twelve  Adityaa,  I'rnjipiti  and  Vuhat,- 
i  an  tka  •uma-dmikm.  The  ileren  Prajijus,  the  eleven  Aauyajai,  and  tka 
i  Tjpaysju  an  tbow  who  do  not  drink  it,  but  recaiva  animal  aacriflow.  B« 
i  aaeriaear)  tatiatts  the  wma-drinken  with  ma,  aad  ihcac  who  do  nut  drink  it 
•risk  aauul.Mcriicat.u  For  aa explanation  of  th«  fr rmi  prayaya,  atutyaja,  and  vpa- 
f»Ja  h«  Frofcoor  U»ur'«  tramUtwo  of  the  Ait.  itr  ii.  110,  note*. 

ii  Compare  Taiil.  Br.  IL  7,  t,  4.  la  the  tcquol  of  the  abova  paatage  (S*»Up.  Br. 
»i.  6, 1,  0)  Dyaoa.  PptkiTT,  and  Adityu  arc  anid  to  be  included  amonx  the  Vans. 
So  that  it  hi  (i»r  there  ii  no  eomiatency  in  tbeat  acouunta. 

»•  On  thia  dirurion  of  the  uni«ert«  intn  thraa  domain*,  »n>  the  raaurka  of  Piufumir 
Beth  in  kia dissertation  an  "The  Uigbett  Uodt  of  the  ArUa  K*r4*."  Jour.  norm. 
Or.  8«CMty,  Mi,  p.  M. 


u 


THE  IXDLOf  GODS  GBXBBaLLT. 


also  dear  that  this  number  of  thirty-three  gods  could  not  have  em- 
braced  the  whole  of  the  Yedic  deities,  as  in  some  of  the  preoedio/ 
Ajrni,  the  Asrina,  and  the  Maruts  are  separately  specified,  as  if  distinct 
from  the  thirty-three.  Pothar,  ladra  could  not  have  hccn,  in  the 
opinion  of  the  author  of  the  Brahmans,  at  least  as  expressed  in  this 
passage,  xi.  6,  3,  5,  one  of  the  twelve  Adityas  (as  he  was  regarded  at 
a  lata  period),  since  he  is  separately  specified  as  making  op  the 
numher  of  thirty-three  gods. 

Jo  the  11.  V.  iii.  !»,  9  [ss  B  V.  x.  52,  6  and  Vnj.  S.  33,  7)  the  god 
an  mentioned  as  heing  much  more  numerous:  "Three  hundred,  three 
thousand,  thirty  ond  nine  god*  huve  worshipped  Agni,",letc.  (W;i 
lain  tr\  aahntruni  Ayniiii  trifniach  e-ha  tlev&h  naea  e/ut  tuaparyait). 

In  another  passage  (i.  27,  13)  the  gods  are  spoken  of  as  divided  into 
groat  and  small,  young  and  old  :  "  Reverence  to  the  great,  reverene 
tii  tlir>  small:  reverence  to  the  young,  reverence  to  the  old.     I. el 

[n  the  gods  if  wo  are  able;   may  I  not,  o  gods,  negh  •  I  the  pruise 
greatest "   (namo  mahailbhyo  noma  arbhatebhya  namo  yuvabhyn 
namah  Aitttrhhyth.  \  ynj'lm*  devun  yadi  iakttavQma  na  jytiycuaht  itmmm 
a  Tiithi  dtr ii$  I  )• 

l  not  aware,  however,  that  this  latter  classification  of  the  gods 
i«  nil ii.l.  .1   |0  in  i'iiy    'ill.  i    ol  the  hymn*.      In  fuct  this 
among  tho  deities  is  denied  in  another  passage,  viii.  30,  1 :  $m  hi  <o 
sjfi  itrbhako  rfmfw  na  L-vmCirniah  |  viist  latomahantih  %t  |  (".None  of 
•j  gods,  is  small  or  young :  you  are  idl  great  "). 


(3)  Thtir  triyin  and  immortality. 

In  the  Rig-reda  the  gods  are  spoken  of  as  immortal  "(as  in  i.  24,  1 
i.72.2.  10;  i.  189,  3;  iii.  4.  11  ;  iii.  21.  1;  iv.  42,  1;  iii.  11,1;  vii.17.4; 
X.  13,  1  ;  x.  M,  15  ;  x.  C9,  9;  x.  72,  5 ;  but  they  arc  not  regarded  in 

••  Tbt  cMSBMlsssr  nsssrks  ears  that  the  sssukt  of  the  gods  it  declared  in  th* 
Brfcaad  Anojaka  l'paai»had.  time  pp.  MS  C  ef  Us  Kit  sf  Uua  Cpaaiahad,  prints* 
tnlke  BtU.  lad.,  sad  pf.  »0»sT.  af  tW  Eajtbh  tranalatioa  ia  ths  *a»#  sales.  The 
aasse  saaags  eeeatt  is  aaariy  nst  cssss  vensi  is  ta*  S*itsDstaa  Brihraani,  xi.  8,  3, 
4  *.  t*a  las  asuaktra  of  tka  god*,  ft  s  aose  ef  lYofcaaa*  Hang  in  ki*  AiUrtTk  Ikik- 
auaa,  i.  311  aula,  sod  tfca  raassrka  kj  Dr.  Kuks  w  Wis  o-bc*  ef  tku  payer  is  hi* 

»  la  is*  iituitt-iiOt  L  SI.  I.  tsar  lausamsi  art  spsksn  tt  as  the  rssvaaaa*  «f 
las  ssst  aaartsts  alms  sky  (*»««■■  WaaaMaas*  i  Islia  Ikji  nifSlllai,). 


A3  TiEPBESESTEn  IX  TEE  BIO-VEDA.  13 

general  as  unbeginning  or  ■elf-oxisti.'nt  being*."  There  are,  as  wo  shsll 
aee  in  the  next  section,  many  passages  in  which  they  arc  described  as 
feting  tlie  offspring  of  ileaven  and  Earth.  In  i.  113,  10,  TJshas,  the 
Dawn,  in  chonieU-riiKd  a*  the  mother  of  the  gods  (aVnrinrim  miit&) ;  in 
ii.  26,  3,  Brahmanatpati  is  called  their  father  (ifr-rrlndoi  pitanm) ;  in 
fab  87,  2,  Soma  is  said  to  bo  the  lather  and  skilful  generator  of  tho 
gods  (jn/o  dcvUntim  ■  lakthuh;  sec  also  ix.  42,  4;  ix.  86,  10; 

and  ix.  109, 4] ;  in  ix.  06,  6,  the  same  deity  is  described  an  the  genera- 
tor ci  Earth,  Agni,  Surya,  Indra,  and  Vishnu  (janitS  dito 
janifn  pfUhiryfih  |  JmtUi  Agner  janitil  SHryaty/i  jatiitA  fndrarya  j'/ini- 
toll  Vithnok) ;  in  x.  72,  5,  tho  gods  tiro  declared  to  bare  been  bora 
after  Aditi  (fwfl  derail  mr  ajGyanta);  in  x.  97,  1,  certain  plants  appear 
to  be  described  as  produced  three  ages  (yoga*)  before  the  god*  {yah 
csAimMjA  pUnHh  jaiak  derrbhyat  triyugam  purA);  whilst,  in  x.  129,  6, 
the  gods  are  said  to  hare  been  born  subsequently  to  the  creution  of  the 
universe,  so  that  in  consequence  no  one  can  declare  ita  origin  {arrflj 
fuya  titerjtouM  alka  ko  vtdn  yatnh  a  LnlAi'irn)."  Var*nia,  Mitra, 
Aryoraan,  Bbaga,  Dakshn,  and  Awsa  aro  designated,  in  K.Y-  ii.  27,  1, 
end  aone  of  them,  elsewhere,  as  Adityas,  or  sons  of  Aditi.  The  birth  of 
Indra  is  mentioned  in  various  texts,  and  his  father  and  mother  alluded 
to,  though  not  generally  nnmed"(ir.  17,  4,  12;  iv.  18,  5,  12;  viii.  45, 
4;  T-iii.  66,  1 ;  x.  184*  1  ft".).     In  vi.  59,  1,  Indrn  and  Agni  aro  ad- 

"  This  b  not,  howc*.  i.y  rrofcwr  Mat  Mftller,  whn  wyi  (Cnlp»  from 

m  Ocrnuin  Woricinnp,  i.  3S)  "  pongta  in  which  tho  birth  of  cortain  god*  i- 
Ho*rd  h*»e  •  pl)j*i<al  m*aning:  they  rcfiar  to  the  birth  of  tho  day,  tbo  iwbj; 
sua,  the  rttvn  of  (he  rear." 

■*  In  the  AUiarro-mln  ii.  7,  23,  nil  the  roA*  am  said  to  baTo  beca  bora  from 

r>»<-MM*M  or  the  renuiiis  of  the  oblation  (tVAcatuAf  ~y  jejnw*  jorw  diri  ditdh 

n  Ti-rw  27  th»  same  assertion  u  repealed  regarding  them  in  roa- 

a  vith  th>  fntbers,  mca,  Gandhanu,  aad  Apsantses  .  •  momoAy&h 

Qmndkarriip—ron'i  cb*  ft  |  «■ .  -iirt  larvt  tl.ri  i/r-uA  i/irviri'.v/l).  Coaaparo 

Tsitt.  Br.  iii.  Ii,  .1,  2,  3.     In  the  5-'»tapathn  BrAhmani  liv.  ■.'.  2.  3.  it  is  said :  Aye*> 

i«**r»  pi  'yam  ptwatt  |  itarmnH  rat   latmufriit   torn   drriih  mrvini   Mw(>W 

MmuAffMnmit  |  "  ThU  which  is  pnrilird  ii  the  ocean  i*m*»).     From  this  <*tt <n 

•U  the  gods,  ill  et Mttirw  itsue  forth  "  {tammft^dtitnhf.     The  gndi  ut.  laid  to  h*ro 

Vmb  torn  in  p«ir*  according  to  •  f***f  of  tho  Taittirir*  SaaohitA  (vi.  fi,  9},  referred 

to  fcy  PfiTaiia  vo  B.V.  nii.  72,  8. 

'•  In  It  V.  x.  101,  12,  a  goddess  called  Niih^iyr"  is  mentioned,  apprnvctlr  U  ffcfl 

"m  I    '.''»frsdj pntrta  a  cJuhaye  itayt  Imfrun  |  ■>  drnn  Lith#r  Indta 

-  «on  !  i  aid  as,"  etc.   SaysQaon  tkb  psaugs  idtari'n  hi?  •  :  i  V  Iti, 

. :  M  She  who  «»»llow»  op  h<r  ri»il  wift  A'wAf i,  i./.  Ditv,"     lodrs  it  in  £»ct 


14 


THK    INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY. 


T 


dressed  in  these  words :  HatAto  v&m  pitaro  deoaiatrarah  Inirugn't  jlntlkt 
yuaiat  |  "  Yoar  fathers,  who  had  the  gods  for  foes,  have  heen  (lain,  o 
Indra  and  Agni;  but  you  survive."  Rut  in  tho  next  verso  both  gods 
are  said  to  have  bad  one  genemtor  and  to  he  twin-brothers  [lamirw  ro* 
janitd  IhrQtarA  ytw'tm  yam&v  itiehamalard).  The  A.T.  i.  30,  2,  speaks 
of  some  of  the  gods  ns  being  fathers  and  others  as  being  sons  (y#  t* 
«fcpfiA  jiittiro  ye  eha  putrCth  taehttato  me  irinata  idam  uktitm).  8ce 
11. V.  x.  63,  2,  which  will  be  quoted  ia  the  Section  on 

Iu  ir.  54,  2  (=Viij.  S.  33,  54)  it  is  suid  that  Savitri  bestows  im- 
mortality, an  excellent  lot,  on  the  gods  (dtPahhyo  hi  prathamupt  ya,. 
ytbhijo  nmriMtaA  niton  bh&gam  uttamam).K  Agni  is  also  said,  Ti  7, 
4,  by  his  power  or  skill,  to  confer  immortality  on  the  gods,  who  wor- 
ship him  wbtB  he  h  horn  like  on  infant  and  Rhinos  forth  from  out  of 
hiB  parents  (<rdw  vi.<r>  <tmrita  jilyamunam  ii&uih  na  d*p&k  abhi  *»* 
natanU  |  (aca  krntubhir  amptatram  Cyan  vaiiidnara  yat  pitrrtr  adldeh). 
In  ix.  106,  8  the  gods  are  said  to  drink  Soma  to  obtain  immortality 
(frdA  dtvito  amrifOya  kam  papuh  |  compare  ix.  109,  2,  3).**  In  x. 
63,  10  some  means  ore  alluded  to  (it  is  not  clear  what)  by  which  th« 
gods  attained  immortality  (yena  d/rdto  amriiatvam  riftotwA).  In  x. 
167,  1  Indra  is  said  to  have  conquered  heaven  by  austere  fervour 
(Ivarh  tapah  pariiapya  qjayah,  ncah) ;  and  in  x.  159,  4  be  is  said  to  have 
become  glorious  and  exalted  by  the  offering  of  some  oblation  (ymendro 
hanihd  kritii  abhatad  dyumm  ultamah). 

In  tho  A.V.  iv.  23,  6  Agui  it  said  to  have  been  the  author  of  the 
immortality  of  tho  gods  (y*na  dtvufr  amfitam  encaeindan) ;  in  the  eamo 

addr*«fld  n«  an  Ailitya  aloiifj  with  Vnrnna  in  rii.  85.  4.  Ho  b  not,  nowernr,  a*  irt 
have  aeon  thorn,  ooiuidcrod  a*  nt«h  in  the  9'p.  Dr.  xi.  6,  3,  5,  wher*  be  »  muotioaod 
aa  distinct  from  the  twclvo  Adityos. 

*>  S.iytnn  inliTim |t|  this  liy  natinc  that  Ur  rims  thnn  nnmn  nnd  other  means  of 
attaining  itiimortMnj  (amrilatrum  fal-mdAanav  nttamam  v(/.rh/it4<am*m  Hiitrm 
$om'irli-lahJnrnam  tuvaai  a»uj7)n,~ti\).  Tlir  urna  dirity  ia  said  i.  110,  3,  to  hava  eon- 
fcrred  immortality  on  the  Kibhus  {tat  Saritt  vo  emritatram  aiurai). 

M  Sw  S'at»|i:itli»  llnihmana  Ix.  6,  I,  1-8,  wbara  it  i.  »>iil  thai  immortality  de- 
parted from  the  Rod*  (dtuihy  Aa  iw  amjitateam  mpaciakruma),  whon  they  art 
thcmsdte*  to  recorer  it  by  religious  obwrraocea.  They  poured  oot  acma  into  Ajrni 
and  thai  infu>*<i  immortality  into  him,  and  by  to  doing  acquired  it  UicmsalTca,  aa  he 
ii  the  tool  of  all  the  god*.  Soma  u  tho  principle  of  lnimurtulity  (athisAutya  apmirr 
ajuktmA  |  tad  agiwr  nmjitam  ari*JHuh  \  tmrxukam  m  An  ttha  Jntiniin  alma  yd 
•ymA  |  lad  .',">'  aa *<r  amritam  aJutihut  tad  ulatann  amritam  adtlfiata  \  talc  i 
emrttak  ubhattM  |  lad  yat  tad  amnOim  6'onwA  foA). 


AS   ian:hM  YiED    IX   TIIE    RIG-VEDA. 


15 


Veda,  xi.  5,  10,  the  gods  ore  said  to  have  overcome  death  by  continence 
and  austere  fervour  (ir*Mmacharyow  tcpaul  dtvuk  mrityum  apugknata) ; 
and,  ibid.  xiii.  1,  7,  to  hare  acquired  immortality  through  Bobita 
(jnui  dtx<~th  amritam  anran'nJan).  Compare  the  game  Veda  iii.  22,  3; 
ir.  11,  6;  ir.  14,  1  ;  Katap.  Br.  i.  7,  3,  1  ;  Ait.  Ilr.  vi.  20;  Taitt. 
Bonb.  L  7,  1,  3,  and  vi.  6,  3,  1 ;  and  tho  Mohulhuruta  siv.  1444 ; 
TaUkaita  taptm%  drvult  mah&m&yHh  dicaiit  gai&k  |. 

I  have  elsewhere  quoted  a  number  of  passages  from  the  Satapatha 
Brahmana,  in  which  it  is  related  how  the  gods  became  immortal;  and 
bow,  though  of  tho  same  parentage,  and  originally  on  a  footing  of 
equality,  with  tho  Atur&a,  they  becamo  mipc-rior  to  them."  (So©  the 
4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  47-53 ;  and  tho  Journal  of  the  Eoyal  Asiatic 
Society,  vol.  xx.  pp.4 1-45  ) 

According  to  the  Taittiriya  Brahmana  the  gods  obtained  their  divine 
rank  by  austerity  (Utpatu  devtih  dtratiim  agr*  fiyan  |  iii.  12,  3,  1). 

In  other  places  somu  of  tho  gods,  as  Indra  (iii  46,  1 ;  v.  42,  C),  arc 
spoken  of  as  undecaying;  and  in  vi.  2  i,  7  it  is  said  of  that  god  that 
neither  autumns  nor  months  wear  him  out,  nor  do  days  cause  him  to 
decay  [tut  j/arh  jaranli  iarado  tut  mdnd/J  na  dy&cah  Indram  anaiaria- 
ysmti).     Whether  or  not  tho  Vcdic  poets  had  any  conception  of  on 

"  Ia  8*atapatha  Drihmaoa  ii.  4,  2. 1,  it  is  Mid  that  all  creatures  same  to  Praj  i- 
psti,  sod  asked  that  they  might  liT*.  To  the  ifod»  he  miii, "  8aerifioa  ia  y oar  food,  roar 
immortality  ia  roar  support,  the  tun  U  roar  light,"  etc.  fj/ajna  ee  'rnnom  tmrilatmm 
<*A  iira  t*h  turyo  roJyoiOt  |  To  tho  pamgee  of  the  S".  P.  Br.  regarding  the  meaner 
in  »h-.fh  the  god»  acquired  immortality,  above  referred  to,  I  nujr  add  ono  aa  rtt 
OBpuUiahed  from  tho  hula  Offlct  MS.  of  the  Taittirlrn  SanhiU  ru.  4,  2,  1 ;  TaUta 
mat  mumkyHh  eravi  ttrriih  agri  atom  |  U  'tamaynditarU'in  piipwyiatm  mritpum 
apahttfa  aaie'im  mmmM  yoekhma  Hi  |  It  ttam  <  hat  uTximiatwo  tram  apaiymt  tarn 
ikaraiu  Ima  aymjantm  lata  rot  U  'maritim  pApmanem  mrityum  apaMatym  aW<M 
iiiii<w  ayatktkan  |  "  The  gods  were  formerly  jtut  like  men.  They  desired  to 
utsaooano  went,  misery,  death,  and  t«  go  to  the  divine  assembly.  They  nsw,  took, 
and  aacrifloed  with,  thit  CoatarriaVstixutra,  and  ia  coweqiKncc  orcicajoo  want, 
misery,  sad  death,  aad  reached  tho  dirine  aaeemlily."  In  the  Taitt.  Sinh.  f.  p.  «Ju 
(of  India  Office  US.)  we  are  told  that "  the  guds and  Asuroe  contended  together :  and 
that  una  former  wen  leaa  aotaerona  then  the  latter,  when  they  took  none  hrieks  which 
Ihey  ww,  and  plaong  thorn  in  th«  proper  position  to  receive  the  tacriScial  fire,  with 
tax  formula  'Then  srt  ■  multiplier,"  they  became  numerous "  (Z>mi«wruA  *amyu»<lA 
cm  I  tamSfiSuo  der IA  aero  MuyaAio  'lurch  |  It  dtfoh  ttnh  ithfalnh  apaiyan  |  t5Jk 
mpidmthamU  "bhtyifiJ  aii  "  ily  rta  AAwjrf.mso  'iaenm).  In  the  Mahibbfrsta. 
tTAntip.  118s,  it  u  said  that  in  the  battle  which  they  had  with  each  other  "tho 
Jsswraa  were  the  elder  brothers  and  the  god*  the  yownger"  (Ham  tu  iriyaU  partA* 
yvJJit  Jat'uwt  pari  |  aenrnA  ti*aUrejytJi{hah  titvij  chip*  pn'tpttah). 


1G 


TOE  INDIAN  CODS  GENERALLT, 


absolute  future  eternity  df  the  gods,  does  not  appear.  But,  as  we  hare 
in  ;nirl n tb  of  the  Brahmarjas  did  not  regard  them  as  natural]; 
and  cescntiuUy  immortal ;  ami  it  in  at  all  events  evident  that  in  later 
times  their  immortality  wuo  regarded  as  only  relative,  as  according 
to  the  Puranic  representation  the  gods  arc  only  a  portion  of  the 
ing  system  of  the  universe,  and  aro  therefore  subject,  as  regards  j 
corporeal  part,  to  the  same  law  of  dissolution  as  other  beings.  8oe  I 
1st  vol.  of  this  work,  2nd  cd.  p.  49,  and  Professor  Wilson's  Sfinkbya 
:.,  p.  14.  Thus,  in  a  verso  quoted  in  the-  commentary  of  that 
work  (p.  II  of  the  Sanskrit),  it  in  said:  "  Many  thousands  of  Indr&s 
and  of  other  gods  have,  through  time,  passed  away  in  every  mundane 
ago;  for  time  is  hard  to  overcome"  (bahanindra-takairagi  dttun&m 
cha  yug*  yug«  \  ki'ilma  mmat'tuni  hilo  hi  &*ratihvma$).  And  in  the 
Sankhya  Aphon-Mi>,  liL  68,  it  b  Mid  that  "  the  suffering  arising  Iron 
decay  and  death  is  common  to  all"  (lamdnaffi  jarQ-maranadi-jafit  dub- 

:   in  liidi  the  commentator  interprets  to  mean  that  nuch  aoJB 
is  "the  cummou  lot  of  all  beings,   both  those  who  go  upwards  and 
those  who  go  downwards,  from  Brahma  to  things  without  motion" 
{urd(lliini<h»-(j,ii.riiwin  ]',itihiuudi-,-.thth'arunt&n&m  earveth&m  tva  jarS' 
»writ«  .nam).0  The  soul*  which  have  animated 

the  gods,  however,  liko  those  which  animate  all  other  corporeal  beings, 
Icing  eternal  and  imperishable,  must  of  course  survive  nil  such  disso- 
lution*, to  he  either  horn  again  in  other  forms,  or  become  absorbed  in 
the  supreme  Brahma.  See  Wilson'9  Vishnu  Pur.  p.  6:12,  note  7;  and 
the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  2nd  cd.  p.  99,  where  it  is  shewn,  on  the 
nmluirity  of  the  Brahma  Sutras  or  of  Sankura  their  commentator,  that 
the  gods  both  desire  and  are  capable  of  final  emancipation. 


(4)  Difftrmt  generation*  of  god*  and  tin ir  mutual  relation*. 

Two  of  the  passages  above  quoted  (in  p.  14),  R.  V.  vi.  50, 1 ,  and  A.^ 
30,  2,  imply  that  the  existing  gods  woro  successors  of  others  who  hsd 
previously  existed.  Tho  former  verse  is  perhaps  illustrated  (as  Prof. 
Anfrecht  has  suggested  to  me)  by  ILV.  iv.  18,  12:  Kat  te  miitaraih 
riJhtwiim  aekidrat  iaguih  ka$  ttfim  ojighiiihial  chnrantam  |  kst  l«  deeo 
adhi  nUijrd\le  Gild  gat  prtlhhinCih  pitoram  pudagrihga   |   "  Who  (o 

*»  Compsr»  Kittat's  History  of  Philosophy,  Engl.  tnoiL  vol.  3,  p.  638. 


AS   REPKESK.Vrai    IN    Till     UIG-VEDA.  H 

Indra)  made  thy  mother  a  widow  ?  Who  Bought  to  kill  theo  lying  or 
moving?  What  god  was  present  in  the  fray,  when  thou  didst  nloy  thy 
father,  wiling  him  by  the  foot?  ""  In  rii.  21,  7,  mention  is  made  of 
earlier  gods:  "Even  the  former  gods"  admitted  their  jiouvnt  to  be 
inferior  to  thy  divine  prowess  "  (dstui  ciit  U  wuryaya  pdrve  unit  lihat- 
trftya  mamire  »uhdih*f).  Earlier  gods  arc  also  mentioned  in  i.  109,  4, 
though  in  conj  unction  with  (unless  we  are  to  understand  them  us 
identified  with)  the  scTcn  rishis :  "  In  regard  to  her  the  former  gods 
raid,  the  scren  risliis  who  rat  down  to  practise  austerity,"  etc.  {tUrah 
tiatyim  aeadandt  punt  taplariihaytu  tapatt  ye  nUhtduh).  An  earlier 
•go  of  the  gods  is  mentioned  in  x.  72,  2  f. :  "  Iu  the  former  ago  of  the 
gods,  the  existent  sprang  from  the  non-existent.  In  the  first  age  of  the 
gods  the  exiatont  sprang  from  the  non-existent"  {detundm  punye  yutft 
aaatah  tad  ajayata  |  3.  Lte&niiiii  yugr  prat  ha  m«  atatak  tail  ijayata). 
And  in  R.  V.  i.  164,  50  we  hare  the  following  Torso,  which  in  repeated 
in  X-  90,  16  (the  Purusha  Suktn) :  yajnens  yajnam  ayajant*  dndi  tani 
dhmraani  prathamUni  0*an  |  U  ha  ndlam  tnahimuiwh  tachanta  yatra 
p&rre  ladhyah  unti  derah  I  "With  sacrifice  the  gods  worshipped  the 
sacrifice:  these  were  the  earliest  rites.  These  great  powers  sought 
after  the  sky,  where  are  the  •  :iyas,  gods."** 

M  In  eiphrution  of  tliii  legend  8Syana  raftri  to  the  Toittiriya  Sanhitn  »i.  1,  3,  0. 
Tli*  following  is  the  passsge  referred  to,  which  I  quote  to  ilmw  hnw  litil*  light  it 
throws  oa  the  text  of  the  B.V.:  la/ao  dakihinim  akhy»4Siy*t  |  fam  lamalhavat  | 
taJ  Itm/rt  VAf,y«j  |  m  'muutyal*  "yo  eu»  •  !»  jannkyatt  m  idam  bkucUhyali"  >h  |  h-i 
prittitl  |  l—fa  Indra  ttSfoyatt  j  to  'mnnyatm  '  yo  rwi  mad  He  'paio  januhyaU  M 
id*mlA**%$.\yati"  Hi  |  Umyi  antmruya  yonim  ifMimtl  |  n  liMniu 'MmK  |  Ut 
titamiiifttJmmM  |  lift  JUHi  ajhHwA/oya/e  |  toSt  mry****  nyodmlknt  |  «u  JruW 
puljasii  'M*HJl  I  *  I*4r*sy.i  yonir  ati  mil  mm  feMtS>"  iti  |  "  Yajna  (iacrilice) 
df«irvd  Dak*hini  {large**).  Ho  eonaortcd  with  her.  Indra  wis  appre.hentive  of 
thai  He  reflected :  '  whoerec  ie  born  of  her  will  be  thi» '  lie  catered  into  b«r. 
Indra  hlawnlf  vaa  born  of  hsr.  He  reflected :  '  whoever  is  born  of  ber  bojidus  me 
will  b»  this.'  ITaring  considered,  he  rut  oprn  hiT  womb.  6bc  produord  a  00W," 
ate.     No  meatlon  ii  here  made  of  bit  killing  his  father. 

•»  &iir»g.i  in  laeo  aty*  lliii  means  >iuroi . 

*•  I  quote  he**  part  of  a  noW  from  my  article  Oa  the  Interpretation  of  the  Veda, 
aW.B.A.S  fur  I860, p  3&S:  Yeaka  tails i»  (Nirulta  xii.  41)tb»t  the  >\iraktae  umjer- 
•toed  tbt  Sidhyaa  to  be  "  the  god*  whoee  locality  is  the  sky,"  Jymthi**  dmyanah, 
whilst,  aceordiag  to  a  legead  (SkhpStfa)  the  term  denoted  a  former  age  of  the  gods." 
Prn*ea»orWiUoatraD»late*thewonlS4dhyiajinIt  V.i.  lf>«,  M  by  "  who  are  to  be  pro- 
Satiated,"  a  aenae  not  earigacd  by  Siyapa,  who  propose*,  fint,  that  of  *.W1um  yv<*>Jt . 
t-<UA»»0-r*»l*h  k*r*vfUr«)t,  "  perfnrmer*,  performer*  of  (aerified*,  etc.,  work-goda." 
Tkaae  wurda  are  re-dercd  by  Prof.  Wilton  in  his  nolo  on  i.  104,  (0,  "  dirinitits  frcaidiog 

3 


It 


THE    INDIAN    OODS    GENERALLY, 


The  gods  do  not  seem  to  have  lived  always  on  a  friendly  fooling  with 
ouch  other.    It  appears  to  me  that  the  two  following  veract,  R.V.  ir.  30, 

3,  6,  though  otherwise  rendered  by  Professor  Wilson  (after  Sayana)  are  to 
be  understood  of  Indra  fighting  agoin»t  tho  gods,  and  not  with  the  gods 
against  tho  Asuras :  3.  Viiv$  shana  id  ana  tva  devHiah  Indra  yuyvdhvk  | 
yad  aha  nakUm  Gtirah  \  5.  Tatrn  derun  righut/ato  vtiviln  ayudhyah  rkah 
it  |  team  Inir*  twitun  aJmn  |  3.  "  ETea  all  the  gods  assailed  thee 
Indra,  when  thoa  didst  prolong  (?)  day  and  night  S.  When  thoa 
didst  fight  alone  against  all  tho  furious  gods,  thou  didst  slay  (he 
destructive."    This  interpretation  is  favoured  by  the  tenor  of 

4,  6,  8-11  of  the  same  hymn." 

(5)  TMr  pvwrt  tmi  pmwjatic**. 

The  gods  con  do  whatever  they  will ;  no  mortal,  however  hostile 
disposition,  ciiu  thwart  their  designs  (R.V.  viii.  28,  4.  Yath& 
iev&t  tad  id  atat  tad  tthaiu  nakir  d  initial  |  ardvS  (hana  marttyaK).    The 
same  is  said  of  the  Maruts  viii.  20,  17 ;  and  of  Indra  viii.  60,  4 ;  viii. 
53,  4.    It  is  similarly  declared  in  iii.  56, 1,  that  no  one,  however  skilful 


8 


over  or  Kiting  effect  to  religions  sets."  This  does  not,  however,  appear  to  bs 
real  sense,  ss  Mahldbara  on  Vuj .  8.  3 1 ,  17,  talis  us  that "  thoro  are  two  kinds  of  gods,' 
tarms&vah,  "work-gods,"  and  ajanadevaJf,  "  gods  by  birth,"  the  lint  being 
who  had  attained  to  tho  condition  of  deitie*  by  their  eminent  works,  soil  the  second 
those  who  were  produced  at  tho  beginuing  of  the  creation,  Tho  second  class  is 
superior  to  the  first,  and.  according  to  tho  Bphadaranyaka,  a  hundred  enjoyments  of 
the  Utter  (the  work-gods),  "  are  only  eqoal  to  one  tingle  enjoyment  of  the  former."* 
See  all  this  and  more  declared  in  tho  Brihndirnnynka  Upmuhad,  pp.  817  b*.  (p.  230  f. 
of  translation),  and  S'.iUpatha  Btuhmn&a,  p.  1087.  A  second  erase  proposed  for 
taihfalt  by  Sayana  on  li.V.  i.  164,  £0,  u  that  of  the  " deities  presiding  oror  enteres,"" 
eAUasto  'AAiis-MiirtoA,  who  were  Adityaa  and  Angiraaca,  and,  according  to  a  Brlb- 
marja,  by  wonhipping  Agni  were  waited  to  hesren.  Prof.  Wilson  remarks  in  hk 
note:  "  It  would  teem  that  in  8srana's  day  tho  purport  of  the  designation  SnOye 
had  become  uncertain."  Mahlduara  on  Vaj.  8.  31,  16,  renders  the  term  rWs". 
*padki-*aihab'ih,  "producers  of  the  condition  of  Viraj.** 

*"  I  should  observe  that  the  Bruhmanas  constantly  speak  of  the  gods  and  Ararat 
as  being  both  the  offspring  of  Prajipati :  at  contending  together  {S'atap.  Br.  v.  t, 
1. 1 ;  ri.  6,  2. 1 1 1  ri.  fl,  3,  2);  sad  even  u  being  originally  equal  ox  alike  (4lh  vol. 
of  this  work,  p.  62).  And  to  prore  that  even  malignant  spirits  may  be  called 
"gods,"  Prof.  Roth,  s.e.  at**,  quotes  from  the  Tuitt.  Sunli.  iii.  t,  i,  1.  a  rene 
to  the  effect :  "  May  Agni  preserve  me  from  the  gods  (Am*.),  destroyers  of  taeriSetrs, 
stealers  of  taerificca,  who  Inhabit  the  oorth;"  and  a  second  text  from  the  A  V  „', 
IS,  6 :  -  Agni,  do  thoa  through  the  oblation  repel  the  gods  who  are 
bappisrtas"  (?  i3(ay*sj«A). 


AS   RBPRB6K.VTBD    IN    TIIB    RIQ-VBDa, 


19 


tad  wise,  nan  irapada  the  first  and  firm  decrees  of  the  gods  (m  UL 
minanti  mayino  na  dhinlh  trad  decilmlm  prailusmH  Mruprlat).  They 
have  dominion  over  all  creatures  (x.  65,  15.  Devdn  Va*iihfho  amfita* 
vatunde  ye  viirQ  bhucana  abhi  pratauthuh).  They  are  supplicated  in 
Till.  30,  3,  not  to  lead  the  worshippers  far  away  from  the  paths  of 
their  anoestor  Munu  (bkJ  nah  paihab  pilry&d  n&navdi  adhi  dira& 
naultfa  parfoatah).  la  oaa  passage  (R. V.  x.  33,  8  f.)  a  grateful  priest 
exclaims  that  if  ho  wcro  lord  of  the  immortals  and  of  mortals,  his 
royal  patron's  life  should  bo  prolonged;  but,  he  adds,  no  one,  even 
though  ho  attain  the  ago  of  a  hundred  years,  cen  livo  beyond  the  time 
the  gods  Appoint;  such  has  boon  tho  perpetual  course  of  things  (8.  Yad 
My*  amriUnam  uta  c&  martySnam  |  fined  id  mayhard  mama  |  9.  Na 
dttdnnm  ati  trot  am  i«tatm&  china  jlvati  \  iathu  yujd  ei  ratfite).  In 
another  place,  x.  117,  1,  an  encomiast  of  liberality  expresses  his  as- 
surance that  the  gods  hail  not  ordained  him  (or  others)  to  die  of 
hunger,  as  eren  the  full-fed  are  overtaken  by  various  forms  of  death 
(JVa  fW  u  im>ih  luhudham  id  vadham  dadur  uta  aiitam  upa  gachhanti 
mrityatat).  Another  poet  cries  (x.  64,  2)  that  there  is  no  other 
helper  than  the  gods,  on  whom  the  fulfilment  of  all  his  Irishes  depends 
(ma  mardiid  vidyatt  ant/ah  ebhyo  devcth*  xut  adhi  hlnulk  ayamtata). 
They  live  in  enjoyment  ia  the  region  where  Vishnu  took  his  three 
strides  (riii.  '."J,  7.  Tr'ini  ekak  uruyuyo'vi  cha&rami yatr*  daeiio  mada/tti  | 
comp.  i.  164,  4).  In  iii  64,  6,  the  rishi  asks  "  who  knows,  who  now 
am  declare,  what  road  loads  to  the  gods  ?  Their  lower  abodes  are 
indeed  perceived,  hut  there  arc  higher  and  mysterious  manifestations, 
or  regions,  beyond  {to  addkA  ttda  hah,  iha  pra  eeehad  dtvan  achha  palJiyA 
id  wuli  |  dadfiiri  ukdm  acamd  tad&iui partthuya  yuhyti.hu  rraitthu  "). 
On  the  other  hand  the  drinker  of  Soma  attains  to  the  privilege  of 
immortality  and  of  knowing  the  gods  (viii.  48,  3.  A  puna  somam  osiri- 
ttih  obhilma  ayanma  j'yotir  aviddma  (Uz&n  J  Comp.  x.  31,  3.  nandato 
amritdndn  abhdma  |). 


•*  Tie  roortnicttoD  sod  sense  of  tho  last  four  words  is  obscure.  Thoj  occur  sfsia 
fa  a  different  eooaection  in  x.  114.  2  (where  hovera  pah  it  feminine :  liri*  mi 
tVkfuh  taawyo  at^iuii  jwtmAm  y.iA  guhyuhu  tratnAu  |  "The  wise  perorivs  Um 
bjiut*  of  these,  who  [eiist]  in  hif-h  and  nmtcriou*  form*,  (orrmlrm]."  The  mm 
of  enclosure  or  re»!ra  u  *iaign«d  t.i  th<i  word  trata  by  Miill«r,  Trait*,  of  R.Y.  L  'iHli, 
wh«  reader*  Via  lut  line  thai :  Iho  poeU  discovered  their  (the  h'trtiti*'}  origin,  wh* 
are  in  tbc  far  biddca  casnbsrs." 


20 


THE    INDIAN    GODS    CENERALLT. 


: 


Tho  pods  reward  their  pious  worshippers  and  punish  thoee  who 
neglect  their  service:  viii.  2,  18.  Ichhanti  detuh  tuncantam  na  nap- 
ndya  ipfihayanti  |  "  The  gods  desiro  a  man  who  pours  out  libations : 
they  do  not  lore  sloop." 

viii.  31,  16.  Mafohu  dtcatato  rathah  (tiro  t&  pritsu  kSiu  chit  \  dcta- 
n6Ht  yah  id  mam  yajam&nah  iyakthati  abhld  ayajmno  bhucat  |  16.  Jfif 
yajauu'ma  vishyati  na  sunvilna  na  dmayo  |  "15.  Impotuoua  is  the 
chariot  of  the  godly  man,  and  ho  is  a  hero  in  every  battle.  Th# 
sacrificer  who  seels  to  please  the  gods  overcomes  the  man  who  does 
not  sacrifice.  16.  Thou  dost  not  perish,  o  sacrificer,  nor  thou  who 
oflerest  libations,  nor  thou,  o  godly  man." 

vii.  39,  2.  Na  devaiah  kmatnavt  \  "  The  gods  are  not  for  (i.».  they 
are  not  the  portion  of)  the  illiborr.l   m  "     Havo  the  words  na 

rite  irantasya  takhydya  dvv&h,  in  iv.  83,  1 1,  a  similar  meaning  :  «'  The 
gods  are  not  friendly  to  him  who  is  tired  of  tho  sacred  rite  "  ?  See  a 
collection  of  texts  to  the  same  effect  as  regards  the  individual  deitiea 
iu  my  article  "  Oa  tho  relations  of  the  priest*  to  the  other  classes  of 
society  in  tho  Vedic  age,"  Journ.  R.  A.  S.  for  18C6,  pp.  286  ff. ;  and 
a  selection  from  them  in  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  2nd  ed.  pp.  259  ff. 

According  to  the  Ratapntha BrAhraano,  i.  I,  !,7,  "the  gods  know  tho 
intentions  of  a  man.  They  arc  nwnro  that  ho  contemplates  the  per- 
formance of  this  rite,  and  will  make  his  offering  in  the  morning;  and 
consequently  they  nil  come  to  hit  house  and  abide  there"  (Mono  ha  tti 
derah  mantuhyasya  (ijAnanti  |  tt  ennm  etad  vratam  upayantam  tiduk 
prdtar  no  yalnhyate  iti  \  tt  aiya  viict  devdh  yrihun  Sgachhanti  ts  atya 
yfihfihu  upacasmti). 

I  have  here  endeavoured  to  f-nUeet  such  characteristics  and  attribute* 
as  are  in  the  Veda  ascribed  to  the  gods  collectively.  In  the  sections 
treating  of  the  several  deities,  the  qualities  and  functions  attributed  to 
each  will  be  brought  forward  in  detail. 


41 


SECTION    IT. 

DYAU8*    A>1>    IJUIUIV1. 

I  begin  with  Dyaus  and  PrithM  (Heaven  aud  Eurth),  who  eoom  to 
hare  been  very  ancient  Aryan  divinities,  and  aro  in  many  passage*  of 
the  Rig-veda  described  as  the  parents  of  the  other  goda. 

In  addition  to  numerous  detached  veraea  in  which  these  deities  are 
introduced  among  other  ohjecta  of  adoration,  aro  inrited  to  attend 
religious  rites,  and  supplicated  for  different  blessings,  there  are  several 
hymns"  (i.  159;  i.  160;  i.  185;  iv.  4G;  vi.  70;  and  ni.  53),  which 
are  specially  devoted  to  their  honour.  As  a  specimen  of  the  v. 
whkh  they  are  addressed,  I  subjoin  n  translation  (very  imperfect,  I 
fear,)  of  some  parta  of  the  159th  and  160th  hymns  of  the  first  book : 

i.  l£y,  1.  Pra  dydva  yajnaih  pjUhivl  riMrri'rfAd  mahl  tituhe  n'da- 
lluthu  prathetatH  \  dtvtkhir  ye  dtvaputro  ludamtasd  itthi  dKiyd  lurgoni 
prmkhtuk*tah  \  2.  Ula  mamye  pilur  adruko  mono  miitur  nwhi  scatavci 
tod  hatlmtbtith  |  ittretsuA  fntari  bh&ma  chakratvr  urn  praj&y&h  amritom 
zar'imabhik  |  "1.  At  tho  festivals  [I  worship]  with  offerings,  and  cele- 
brate the  praises  of,  Heaven  aud  Earth,  the  promoter*  of  righteousness, 
the  great,  the  wise,  the  energetic,  who,  having  gods  for  their  offspring, 
thus  lavish,  with  tho  gods,  the  choicest  bh  wings,  in  consequence  of 
our  hymn.  2.  With  my  invocations  I  adore  the  thought  of  the  bene- 
ficent Pother,  and  that  mighty  inherent  power  of  tho  Mother.  The 
prolific  Parent*  have  made  all  creatures,  and  through  their  favours 
(have  conferred)  wide  immortality  on  their  offspring." 


**  The  crude  form  of  this  word  U  Dru.  I  employ  tho  nonrioattrt  J>y«tu,  Croat  iu 
eloair  n— wblinra  to  the  Greek  zris.    The  jrcnitivo  u  Itkot. 

*»  See  also  A.V.  iv.  28.  Ppthivt  sle-ne  is  celebrated  in  K.V.  6,  84.  I  ff.  Hyssn  i. 
1 R4,  is  tnatUud sad  eMUDented  on  by  M.  Ad.  Begnier  in  bis  E"tude  rar lidioou  dss 
Vcdai. 


22 


THE   INDIAN   GODS   GENERALLY, 


i.  160,  2.  Uruvyacluud  mahinl  atahhatd  pitd  mdtd  cha  bhurani\*i 
rakehatah  |  .  . .  .  3.  Ayavi  dev&ndm  apatdm  apadamo  yo  jtijtina  rodatJ 
riita-iambhuvu  |  ei  yo  tnamt  rajatl  tukralHyayi  ajarcbhih  liambhtneihik 
mmdiirUhe  |  i.  Tt  no  gfindnc  mahinl  mahi  iravah  ithatiraft  dyapi- 
pfithivi  dhdiatho  mahat  |  ytnabhi  krithfU  tatan&ma  iijvahd  pandyyam 
cfo  turn*  tarn  ineaUwt  |   '*  2.  Widely  expandod,  vast,  unwearied,  the 

Father  and  the  Mother  proservo  all  creatures 4.  Uo  was  the 

moat  skilful  of  the  skilful  gods  who  produced  these  two  world*,  which 
arc  beneficent  to  all,  who,  desiring  to  create  an  excellent  work,  stretched 
out  these  regions  and  sustained  them  by  undecaying  supports.  5. 
■When  lauded,  may  the  mighty  Heaven  and  earth  bestow  oa  ua  great 
renown  and  power.  May  they  impart  to  us  laudable  energy  whereby 
we  may  always  control  other  creatures." 

Li  the  hymns  HeaTen  and  Earth  are  characterized  by  a  profusion  of 
epithets,  not  only  such  as  are  suggested  by  their  various  physical 
characteristics,  as  rastaesc,  breadth,  profundity,  productiveness,  on* 
ehangeabloneei  {vrupyachasd,  mahinl,  urvl,  bahuU,  dareanU,  yalhlr*, 
yhriUxail,  madhudught,  bhfiriretasa,  payanail,  aj/trt)  (i.  160,  2;  i.  185, 
7  j  iv.  36,  3;  vi.  70,  1,  2);  but  also  by  Buch  as  are  of  a  moral  er 
spiritual  nature,  as  innocuous  or  beneficent,  wise,  promoters  of  righteous* 
nee*,  (rifdrri'cMd,  p'ldearl,  prachetatd,  adruhd)  (i.  169,  If.;  i.  160,  1 ; 
iv.  66,  2 ;  vi.  70,  6 ;  x.  86,  2). 

(1)  HtoKtn  end  Earth  dttm'btd  at  th«  unktrni  parmtU. 

The  two  (HeoTcn  and  Earth)  together  are  styled  porcnta,  pitara 
(in  i.  150,  2;  iii.  3,  1 1  ;  vii.  53,  2;  x.  Co,  8),  or  tndtard  (in  L  165, 
3;  ix.  85,  12;  x.  1,  7;  x.  35,  3;»  x.  64,  14),  or  Janitri 
{dydtA-pfithitl  janitri  R.V.  x.  1 10,  9).  In  other  passages  the 
Heaven  is  separately  styled  father,  and  tho  Earth  mother  (in  R.V. 
L  89,  4;  L  90,  7;  L  159,  2;  i.  160,  2 ;  i.  185,  11  ;  iv.  1,  10 ;  v.  42, 
16;  v.  43,  2,  15;  vi.  51,6;"  vi.  70,  6;  vi.  72,  2 ;  viii.  92,  2;  x. 
64,  3;  x.  88,  16  (=  Vij.  8anh.  19,  47).    See  also  A.V.  ii.  28,  4 ;  iii. 

"  Hot  ihev  ire  supplicated  to  preserr*  the  wwahippe-  Wilms.  In  B.Y.  vi.  IT, 
7,  they  an  called  mSlarS  ya3m  rituya,  "  the  great  parents  of  sseriflos." 

M  The  words  of  tho  originil  here  are  Th/atuK  pitah  Pritkm  motor  oAny  Agm 
Uritm-  rawee  mrilata  nah  |  -  Father  Heaven,  iiiaoiiout  mother  Earth,  brother 
Agni,  Vams,  be  graeioni  te-  us "    A.V.  ri.  4,  3  hat Dyawhptiur  y*ny*  iueAAtmo  yo. 


AS   iEHtE-SEXTED    IK    THE    BIG-VEDA, 


23 


S3,  6;  vi.  4,  3;  <ri-  120,  2 ;  viii.  7,  2 ;  tad  xii.  1,  10.  Is  the  some 
Veda,  xii  1,  12,  the  poet  sap  :  "The  Earth  is  the  mother,  and  I  am 
th«  ion  of  the  earth  :  Parjenya  is  the  father;  may  he  nourish  u*  (Mata 
iJtimth  ptttro  akam  pfithitydlf  I  Parjatiyak,  pita  m  u  mth  pipar(u). 
Again  in  verse  42  of  the  same  hymn  ho  aaya,  "  Reverence  be  paid  to 
the  Earth,  the  wife  of  Parjanya,  to  her  who  draws  her  richness  from 
showers  (Mamyai  Parjanya-patnyai  tumo  'Wi»  vanha-mtdate).  Here, 
as  it  will  bo  noticed,  Paijanya  takes  the  place  of  Dyaus,  as  the  husband 
of  PpthiTl." 

In  the  Aitareya  Bruhmana,  iv.  27,  we  hare  the  following  reference 
to  the  marriagoof  Heaven  and  Earth:  Jmav  vai  Mau  taha  0$t4lm  | 
tau  vyaitem  |  na  ararihat  na  aamatapat  j  U  panthajanSh  na  $ama- 
/duala  |  tau  dfruh  lamanayim  |  tau  namyanlUc  etam  dttct-ricahofo  tyaia- 

fwton  | atau  cat  lokah  trnam  loiam  abhi  par y Heart tato  |  tata  rat 

dyHrilpritkio  alkavatunt  \  na  dyutd  antarihhud  na  antarihh&d  Ihumih  | 
which  is  translated  as  follows  by  Professor  Eaug  (vol.  ii.  308) :  "  These 
two  worlds  (heaven  and  earth)  were  onoe  joined.  (Subsequently)  they 
separated.  (After  their  separation)  there  fell  neither  rain,  nor  was 
there  sunshine.  The  fire  classes  of  beings  (gods,  men,  etc.)  then  did 
not  keep  peace  with  ono  another.  (Thereupon)  the  gods  brought 
about  a  reconciliation  of  both  these  worlds.  Both  contracted  with  one 
another  a  marriage  according  to  the  rites  observed  by  the  gods.''  Tho 
end  of  the  section  I  render:  "Tuot  world  approached  this  world: 
thence  were  produced  heaven  and  earth :  neither  tho  heaven  nor  the 
earth  was  produced  from  the  air." 

Heaven  and  Earth  are  regarded  as  the  parents  not  only  of  men,  but 
of  the  gods  also,  as  appear*  from  the  various  texta  where  they  are 
designated  by  the  epithet  dttaputra,  "  having  goda  for  their  children  " 
(via.  in  i.  106, 3 ;  i.  159,  1 ;  L  185,  4 ;»  iv.  66,  2 ;  vi.  1 7,  7 ;  vii.  53,  1 ; 
x.  11,  9).  la  like  manner  it  is  said  (in  vii.  97,  8)  that  "  tho  divine 
worlds  (i>-  Heaven  and  Earth),  the  parents  of  the  god,  have  augmented 
Brihaspoti  by  their  power "  M  (in I  devatya  rodatt  j'anitri  BrihatpatiA 

»  Tilt  Tsittirlra  Annraka  Mrs,  p  7 J  |  Jajfi  hhumir  pttir  ryim  |  mitkwfm  ti 
ityid*\  "lbs  Earth  u  tbt  wife,  the  Sky  is  the  husband;  they  are  a  pair."    Haas 
says,  ii-  22-5  :  Mala  prithityib  murUilf  |  "  A  ram  bur  ii  an  iraagu  of  tho  Earth."* 
*  lan»#^u»hys»Bt^»r«oalkd>H>r.  "ttMpartuls." 
•»  la  Si.  M,  7,  and  ir.  i,  16,  tho  Aagiram  are  said  to  be  iWafutrik,  mm  <d 
Itraai.    8m  also  l.  K,  0,  sod  1. 


24 


THE   INDIAN   GODS   GENERALLY. 


irirridhatur  mahiltd) ;  and  (in  x.  2,  7)  they  arc  described  as  having,  in 
eonjutM.lhiri  with  tho  waters,  and  with  Tvnshtri*  begotten  Agni  (yam 
r,i/}-priifiivl  yam  It  upon  Ttashfil  yam  ltd  tujanimn  jijdna).  And 
in  various  passages  they  arc  Eoid  to  have  made  (pitard  bh&ma  chair*- 
itih),  and  to  sustain  (pitd  mdtd  eha  bhuvanuni  ralcshofoh  |  fiitam  tmand 
bibhritho  yod  ho  ndma)  all  creatures  (in  i.  159,  2;  i.  160,  2;  i.  18 

In  tho  next  Section  wo  shall  find  that  according  to  II.  V.  x.  63,  2,  a 
■Id  origin  is  ascribed  to  tho  gods,  some  of  tbem  having  bwu  pro- 
duced from  Aditi,  others  from  the  aerial  waters,  and  others  again,  from 
the  earth . 


(2)  Pauagti  lo  ih$  tamp  effort  from  the  elaineal  aulhori. 

But  it  is  not  in  ancient  Indian  mythology  alone  that  Heaven  and 
Earth  are  regarded  as  being  the  universal  parents.  It  is  observed  by 
t  Noest  French  outhor  that  "the  marriage  of  Heaven  and  Earth  forms 
the  foundation  of  a  hundred  mythologies. ""  According  to  the  Theogony 
of  Heaiod  (116  ff.)  the  first  thing  that  arose  out  of  Chaos  was  "Utt 
bn.ad-botomed  Earth,  the  firm  itlxido  cf  all  things" 

'IItoi  fiiy  wpiiriffTn  Xui  7/ptT*,  atTB^i  tmm 
Tai"  tbpfortfivot,  wirraef  iJot  ierQaAlt  <u«l. 

She  in  her  turn  "  prod ik id  the  starry  Hcivcn,  co-exteniivc  with  ! 
.  to  envelope  her  on  nay  part."  "  From  the  union  of  these 
powers  sprang  Oceano*,  Kronos,  tho  Cyclopes,  lthcia,  etc.  (132  ff.); 
emit  from  Kronos  und  lthcia  again  were  produced  Zeus,  Here,  and  other 
deities  (453 ff.).  In  his  "Works  and  Days"  (5(51)  Heciod  speaks  of 
the  Earth  as  r^  waVr*? /nfap,  the  earth  the  mother  of  all  things."" 

Among  the  Homeric  hymns  there  is  one  of  19  lines  addressed 
"  the  mother  of  all  things"  which  begins  thus : 

Tl(4{tfliim\v,  *,  fipjiii  M  xSavi  wdrfT  i*6<?  iar\v,  h.t.\. 

"  In  one  place  (ri  CO,  7),  tho  waters  are  spoken  of  ut  mother*  fjamitrih)  of  all 
things  tflorvahln  nd  IuUsVINUs,  Cumpare  the  pnaiagea  from  the  8'»tapatoa  Hrih- 
nuna,  ia  the  tth  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  15  f. ;  21  f. ;  and  tho  texts  given  in  tho  1st 
toI."  Jaded,  p.  »1  T.  6if.;  and  R.V.  x.  121,  7  ;  x.  SO,  8.  In  the  A.V.  xix.  64,  I, 
the  waters  themselves  ore  said  to  bars  sprung  from  time  (hdlni  npah  tamabhatmn). 

"  M.  Albert  RcTille,  Eeeaia  de  Critique  Religieuae,  p.  S83.     "C«nt  STflhi 
■oat  foodies  snr  U  mnringr  tin  ciel  et  de  la  tcrrv."    S«e  also  pp.  202  and  298. 

*•  The  original  tctus  will  b«  found  ut  the  eluni  of  the  section  on  Varnoa. 

*>  The  line  in  which  these  word*  occur  ii  however  supposed  to  be  *]>nrioua. 


AS    REPCESENTF.D    IX    TIIK    RIG-VEDA, 


25 


"  I  will  »ing  of  the  Earth,  the  universal  mother,  the  firmly  based,  the 
most  venerable,  who  feed*  all  creature*  that  ore  on  the  ground,"  etc. 
la  r.  6,  it  is  said  that  it  depends  on  her  to  give  life  to  mortals,  and 
to  take  it  oway  i 

tnrro's  arQfuvounr. 

In  verse  16  eho  is  addressed  as  a  venerable  goddess,  at^rh  ttl,  and  in 
v.  1 7  ub  "  the  mother  of  the  gods,  and  the  spouse  of  the  starry  Ouxonos : 

Xaipt  9t&»  ii^ri|/>,  &*»X    Ovfmvoi  hrrtp&irrof. 

^Zschylus,  in  his  Prometheus  Vinctna,  88  ff.,  makes  Prometheus 
exclaim  "O  divine  toJhcr,  and  yo  many-winged  blasts,  yc  fountains  of 
the-  rivors,  thou  multitudinouB  laugh  of  Ocean,  and  thou  Earth,  the 
Udivit.-::'!  "•  I .  i  1 1  i  ■  ■  i-  ;  —  m&  the  bM  bghaUiBfJ  rfielfl  "1  QlG  Sun  1  invuUf?:" 

1  Sifi  titbp  koI  TaxtTTTcpoi  rroal 
*«rait£i>  t«  tnryal  rorrfwr  Tt  m»/i<iT»j> 
irfoityu*  y^-ojT^n,  «h/i/iStoj>  n  7%, 
col  t*f  mu-jrrqir  xwtAo*  flAfou  xXw, 

In  the  Seven  against  Thebes,  16,  Etcocles  speaks  of  "  Mother  Earth, 
the  most  beloved  nurse  "  : 

At  the  beginning  of  the  Eumenides  of  the  same  poet  tho  Earth  is 
worshipped  as  the-  first  prophot«u : 

tlpmrrer  filr  «£xj?  Tijltt  npiaQiim  «■<«■> 
T\r  Tptrriparrv  iWor, 

And  in  the  41st  fragment  of  J&obylua  (from  tho  Donaidcs)  Aphrodite 
is  introduced  as  saying  : 

iff  n\r  kyrhi   oiporbi  rpiaai  .x  Wra, 
fptri  tl  yaiar  Aaj</J<i»«i  7«f/uw  Ti»x«'r- 
iuBpot  4"  A**  tdrdirra!  oupuvii  rcirar 
f*v#«  >alav  ^  J*  rbcrtrat  Sptnett 

fLtlXthr   It    iiiXTtil   «•)   /!fo»    AnnV«"»«" 

♦•►Spirit  £(>*  1"  V*  wrlfsrrof  -ya^i** 
t»A«i4i  /ffTi.  t£*  8"  i'yi   rapafr*t. 

"  Tho  pure  lTcavcn  love*  to  inflict  on  the  Earth  an  amorous  blow ; 
and  desire  seises  the  earth  to  obtain  tho  nuptial  union.  Rain  falling 
from  the  moist  Heaven  impregnates  the  Earth,  v.  ho  brings  forth  for 
mortals  tho  food  of  sheep,  and  the  sustenance  of  Demeter.  The  verdure 
of  tho  woods  also  is  perfected  by  the  showers  proceeding  from  this 
marriage.     Of  all  these  things  I  (Aphrodite)  am  in  part  the  cause." 


29 


TEE    INDIAN  OODR    GENERALLY. 


Sophocles  also,  in  his  (Edipus  Coloneus,   1480,  makes  tha  chorus 
epoakof  "  Mother  Earth :  ■ 

"tAooi,  £  Sal/imv,  IXaar,  fi  ti  74} 
fiajjpi  Tvyxirtu  d^i-y^Jj  <pifwr. 

And  in  his  Antigone,  338,  «h«  is  characterised  as  "the  highest 
the  deities,  imperishable  and  unwearied :  " 

fleiip  rt  Td>  vrtpiirar,  ya* 
tQBtrov,    kitafidrav  i.worp6trai,  «ctA. 

In  his  Fhiloetetea,  391,  she  is  addressed  as  "tho  all-nurturing  earth, 
the  mother  of  Zeus  himself:  " 

'Optvrfpa  waitSiri  to,  juSrtp  airroi  &ibf, 
&  ran  tii-foy  nmcTcuA.6*  it>xpu<rov  W/im. 

Euripides   also,   in   his   Hippolytus,    601,    makes  his  hero    invo 

"  Mother  Earth  :  " 

ii  ya'a  pY"p  >)\toi>  T*  ayaa-ru\al,  K.r.X. 

So  too  in  tho  Helena,  89  : 

•  I  B\Aoi>  Qpojar 
»At|fiui's  t<  KovQtoii*  iiirripa  %6im,  K.r.X. 

And  again  in  the  name  drama,   613,  tho  heroine  spooks  of  Huarcn 

as  the  Father ; 

nt-rip  h  oliptwhr 

twttfU- 

In  his  Baechsc,  274,  the  same  poet  makes  Teireaias  thus  identify 
Earth  with  tho  goddess  Dcmctcr : 

tie  yap,  &  Ptaria, 
ri  upwr*  wv  iwtipviriuai,  ^tff^TTjp  0tcL 
tfi  S"  iorlr   tropta  V  iwirtpor  0oC\t,  mUo, 
aBrn  n.lr  «V  (jjpoirrv  ittrpfai  fiporoit. 

"  Two  tilings,  o  youth,  are  the  first  among  men,  the  goddess  Dcmetcr, 
and  she  is  the  Earth.  Cull  her  by  either  namo  as  you  please.  Sho 
nourishes  mortals  with  dry  sustenance."40  Tho  second  deity 
nysus  who  gives  them  the  juice  of  the  grape. 

40  Id  describing  tho  Egyptian  cosmogony  Diodorua  Siculus  L  12  also  thus  i 
the  Eartli  with  Dcmctcr :  TV  fl»  yip  ffimrip  iyyuir  ti  ran> Quo>l>  rap  irtgknuMrarras 
Hiripa  wpoeoyoptvaw-  xa'l  tov«  "£AAqi>ax  it  rainr/n  waparXqirfoi  Atiiiirpav  noXilr, 
tip^X"  l^rarittlerit  rij»  Algitir  tA  -/dp  vaAaibi-  Jro/ja^tfSai  yi»  fifripa,  nafHwip 
*al  riiy  Oppi'a  upapafrvptiv  \iyavra  "  yri  p^yf  v&rrmr,   Ai^^rtf  nKovraiarnfu." 

"And  they  any  that,  eoncciTu»n  the  Earth  as  a  sort  of  receptacle  uf  the  things  which 
were  produced,  they  called  her  mother ;  and  that  the  Greek*  in  like  manner  call  her 
Demeter,  with  a  alight  alteration  of  the  letter*  (i.a.  Dimeter  for  Gfmetsr):  for  of 
•Id  aha  was  called  '  Earth  Mother'  (Gen  mPtJra),  as  Orpheus  too  taatifle*  vhsa  be 
•pcakj  of '  the  Earth  tho  mother  of  ail  thing*,  Dtmcter,  the  girer  of  wa 


AS  XEPRESEXTF.D   IN   THE   BIG-VEDA,  27 

And  in  the  6th  fragment  from  the  Chryrippus  of  the  same  dramatist 
wo  find  the  following  passage : 

4  pir  aVifrvrwr  «d  fair  ytrirup, 
h  8*  OypoSflXev)  (TTOY(ira»  »crr(«ur 
wapa&i (nM^tni  »f«T«i  Svaruut, 
rfirrf i  Si  Bofiv,  f SAa  t»  O^pur, 
W«»  o!ik  ittmtt 
liffrrip  wirrmr  v<v&pi<nat, 

"  The  mighty  Earth,  and  Jovo'b  .fitber, — of  these  the  one  is  the  gene- 
rator of  men  and  gods,  and  the  other,  receiving  the  drops  of  moisture, 
produces  mortals,  produces  food,  and  the  tribes  of  animals; — whence 
she  is  not  unjustly  regarded  as  the  mother  of  nil."  " 

The  earth  also  appears  to  bo  regarded  by  Pindar  (Nem.  0,  1  If.)  at 
tho  common  parent,  or  sustainer,  of  both  gods  and  men  : 

*F.r  itifiin,   \r  ttim  yiyef  in  piat  H  ntrlop.tr 
/tax phi  iLivpirtpof 

"  There  is  one  race  of  men,  and  one  of  gods ;  but  we  both  draw  our 
breath  from  tho  aamo  mother." 

In  tho  follow  in  r  passage  of  Dionysiua  of  Halicamassus,  vol.  v.  p.  365 
(Diod.  Sio.  i.  7  ;°  Euscb.  P.  E.  i.  p.  20d),\  and  in  tho  fragmont  of  Euri- 

**  Sec  ai*o  Plato,  Ecpub.  iii.  20 :  *E»«i}))  it  nrrtMi  Hiioyepim  flvar  (tel 
4  y%  strati  nhrup  aha  eVqicc,  k.t.K.  ■  Dot  when  they  ware  perfectly  fashioned, 
and  the  earth,  their  mother,  sent  them  forth,"  etc  See  alio  the  Meaexeaos,  Sect.  7 : 
front  which  1  extract  the  following :  S  8»  eel  f|  ifitripa  y$  IS  ««1  n*mip  to*»*» 
vewjgSjMM1  wfj^trtii  iii  antpimovt  ynnrijira^iirrr  .  .  .  hv  yip  yij  yvrmxa  /ii^I/nrrtu 
Kv^ati  ml  yirrheti  AAAo  yvrh  yj\v.  "  Whereby  out  own  land  nnd  niuthur  (Attica) 
sHtb  aaxBciaat  proof  that  ahe  haa  produced  man,"  etc  And :  "  For  the  earth  does 
•04  imitate  woman  in  becoming  pregnant,  and  bearing  offering,  but  woman  the  earth." 

*>  Diodnnji  begiw  tho  paattge  i.  7,  in  which  he  introduces  these  lines  from  Eori* 
pidee,  aa  follow* :  lie  telle  11a  that  in  the  opinion  of  tome  apeenlator*  "  beaten  end 
earth  had,  according  to  tho  original  oonrtitutiun  of  thing*,  hot  one  form,  the  natural 
ffopertiea  of  the  two  being  blended ;  bat  that  afterwards ,  when  the  body  of  the  ono 
I  become  etparated  from  tliat  of  ibo  other,  die  world  aaramed  that  regular  arrange* 
which  we  now  witneaa,"  etc  (kst*  Trip  *V  «•{  Apxijf  »"»"  *>•*  •wrrao-u'  niar 
!H or  attpapir  »•  reJ  yv*.  M*>">M<'>^I>  ■or<i»  Tqr  e>inrt«t"  nrrk  8<  touts  !i«. 
trrlrrwr  fin  attpArmr  iw'  eAX^Aw*  t*»  pir  itiopa*  wtpiXaB*it>  <r»«-«r  ri^r  ipwuii-qy 

4*  »ini  rimoiv.  h.tA.).  After  ginng  tho  details  of  this  development,  he  concludes : 
••  And  is  regard  to  the  entire  of  the  unmrae,  Earipidee,  who  waa  a  disciple  of 
Aaaxaguraa,  the  ph ytical  philosopher,  doea  not  appear  to  have  differed  from  the  views 
which  hare  hem  rtated  "  (fata*  SI  *•*)  rflt  r§#  ZA»»  ^lttm\  oif  Ei'i>'»f&»»  S*a- 
f  >iij  ro't  wpMipij^inii,  *iefl>tH>»  Av 'Ai^ayeeov  t«S  f»»ur*£).  Ha  than  qootas 
the  tinea  girta  is  the  Uit. 
"  Bee  W.  Disdotfa  Xaripida.  toL  u.  p.  915,  od.  Oxford,  1833. 


THE    I.VPIAN   GODS    CEXEfiALLY, 


8<A  rfc 


pides,  which  is  there  preserved,  we  find  that  a  doctrine,  partly  similar 
to  that  of  the  Aitareyn  Brdhmana  adduced  above,  regarding  heaven 
and  earth,  ia  ascribed  to  the  philosopher  Anaxagoras,  and  was  ex- 
pressed by  bis  disciple  the  poet : 

'Knxtayip^    wpo-rt+tlrvrtv  E£p.*J*T<-      'Knta^Ap*,    Si    My,,    frr]r    *Vt    wxirr* 
in  irwri»,  tfco  tmtpoii  8i»«|><»8.    jitra  ravra  i*(Au<r«  cot  Imptni,  raJ  M  *4  Ava- 

Maaorhnrqi- 

Kot«  />»ii  A  >i»*n,  AAA"  ^ifji  >ifT»»t  rd>a, 
i>\  oi'farii  r*  yoi'd  t'  $*  pv^i)  pirn- 

vtcrouffi  »i*r»  tfaWSwafar  tit  +ios 

S«VVn.  a-cr««A,  «V»».  »'»  '*  *Vu  T^rf^w, 

•jVr»i  t«  ♦nrrif. 

"  Euripides  frequented  tho  lectures  of  Anaxagoras.     Now  it  was  the 

theory  of  that  philosopher  that  all  things  were  confounded   (lit.  all 

things  were  in  all  things),  but  afterwards  became  separated.     Eoriplda 

afterwards  associated  with  Socrates,  and  became  doubtful  regarding 

the    theory.       He  accordingly  admits    the   ancient  doctrine   by  the 

mouth  of  Melon  ippe :    '  The  saying  is  not  mine  but  came  from  mr 

mother,  that  formerly  the  Heaven  and  Earth  formed  one  substance: 

but  when  they  were  separated  from  each  other,  they  gave  birth  to  all 

things,  and  brought  them  forth  into  the   light,  trees,  birds,  beasts, 

fishes,  and  the  race  of  mortals.'  " 

riif  appellation  of  mother  is  naturally  applied  to  tho  earth,  as  the 

source  from  which  all  vegetable  products  spring,  as  well  as  the  home 

of  all  living  creatures.     This  is  remarked  by  Lucretius,  "  De  Reran 

Nature,"  ia  these  lines,  r.  793  ft*. : 

"Nam  tieqoo  d«  arlo  cecidim*  animali*  peasant, 
Ncc  tomatria  de  ulns  oxine  lnconii : 
I  jnquilar  ut  msrito  matcrnum  uuinuu  adept* 
Terr*  sit,  e  tern  qooniam  nmt  cuncta  errata,"  clo. 

And  again,  v.  821 : 

"  (lure  ctiam  atqnc  ttiam  mnlernnm  nomen  adepts 
Terra  tract  mcrtto,  quoniam  jt«iiu<  ipw  crtimt 
ITumonum  at^uc  animal  propc  corto  tempore  fndit,"  tte. 

And  in  illustration  of  the  idea  that  Heaven  is  the  father  of  all  things, 

I  may  quote  his  wonte,  ii.  991 : 

"Denique  ealcati  ramus  omnw  amain  o  oriundi : 
Ornnilns  ill*  idem  pater  cat,  undo  alma  liqncntU 


A8    BEPBESENTED    IN    TnE    EIG-VEDA. 


29 


Utunrii  guttna  malor  cum  terra  reoepit,** 
F«U  porit  nitiilM  fhigw  orbusUquo  laett 
Et  ganos  huraanum,"  clo. 

And  ii.  998 : 

"  Qua  propter  raorito  malenium  noaum  adepts  cat. 
Culit  idem  r«tro  de  terra  quod  fait  ante, 
la  Uttsb,  rt  quod  miaumit  ox  *th*ri*  uri* 
Id  lunum  cell  r*U»lum  Umpla  r<**pt*rit" 

v.  799: 

H  Quo  minus  at  niirura,  ri  turn  mnt  plura  coorta 
Et  majors,  nori  UIIuto  atqua  »lhors  adults,"  etc. 

My  attention  was  drawn  to  those  passages  by  finding  them  referred  to 

in    Professor  8ellmr'B  "Roman  Poeto  of  tho  Republic,"  pp.  236,  1  ft, 

and  276.     8c*  also  Lucretius  i.  250  : 

Pcatremo  pereunt  irahrw,  ubi  co«  pat«r  aethw 
la  grcntimn  ubLiu  terroi  praecipilavit  ; 

And  t.  318  : 

Dtniqut  jam  trier*  hoc,  circum  rupraquc  qnod  omnrrn, 
Cootioct  amplciu  Uinram  i 

Pee  also  Pocuviua  86,  quoted  I;  Mr.  ilunro  in  his  Notes  on  Lucretius 

T.  316,  and  Virgil,  Georgia  ii.  325,  cited  in  his  note  on  Lucr.  i.  250 : 

Turn  paver  omaipoteiia  fecundi*  imbribu*  aether 
Cojiju/b  in  jrTciiiium  larUe  dcjcomlit  et  omnis 
Magnus  alit  rangtio  commutot  corpora  fetus. 

Mr.  Huttro  there    remarks:   "From  the  Vedas  to   the   Pervigilium 

"Veneris  poet*  and  philosophers  lore  to  celebrate  this  union  of 

and  earth,  ether  as  father  descending:  in  showers  into  the  lap  of  mother 

earth."     See  the  name  author's  notes  on  Lucr.  ii.  991. ,s     Tacitus,  too, 

informs  as  in  lii.i  Germauia,  40:  No<:  quidqunra  notubilo  in  singulis  nisi 

qnod  in  commune  Erthum,  it  cd  Terrain  umtrcrn,  colunt>  camquc  inter- 

Tenire  rebus  hominum,  inrchi  populis  arbitrantur.**     "Nor  is  there 

anything  in  regard  to  particular  points  which  deserves  remark  except 

that  they  all  together  worship  Krtho,  i.e.  Mother  Earth,  and  think 

that  she  intervenes  in  the  affairs  of  men,  and  mores  round  among  tho 

nations." 


a*  Compare  AT.  tii  I,  12,  «2,  quoted  aboYe,  p.  23. 

•»  &**  also  Professor  Mm  Muller'a  Lsttnraa  oo  Lasgosge,  0.  469,  and  Mr.  C. 
Brute'*  paper  "On  tbc  Vedic  Conception  of  th«  Earth,"  Joura.  B.  A.  S.  six.  3 JO  ff. 

**  Ed.  F.  Riuar  (Cambridge  and  London,  1848)  who  substitutes  ErUiun  for  the 
coraiop  reading  Ncrtbaau     Sec  bia  Notes  in  loco,  sad  on  Section  9. 


30 


THE   INDIAN  QODS  GENERALLY, 


(3)  Heaven  and  earth  tlittehtrt  tpoken  o/tu  ertaUd. 

On  tie  other  hand,  Heaven  and  Earth  arc  spoken  of  in  other  place* 
as  themselves  created.  Thua  it  is  said  (i.  160,  4 ;  ir.  56,  3),  that  be 
who  produced  heaven  and  earth  must  hovo  been  the  moat  skilful 
nrtizan  of  all  tbo  gods n  {«</« A  devindm  apat&m  apaUamo  yo  jtySma 
rodatl  vUtaiatnhhmi  :  ta  it  teapd  lhut<m*4hu  uta  yah  inu  dyavd-pri- 
thirl  jejuna).  Again,  Indra  is  described  os  their  creator  (Jtnita  din 
/amid  prithicydh)  (vi.  30,  5;  viii.  36,  A);*3  as  having  beautifuHy 
fashioned  them  by  his  power  and  (.kill  (z.  29,  6,  mdtrt  Mat  U  mmiU 
Indra  purvl  dyattr  majmanS  priihiel  tdrytna) ;  at  having  generated 
from  his  own  body  the  father  and  tbo  mother  (by  which  heaven 
and  earth  are  clearly  intended  (x.  64,  3.  Kah  u  nu  U  makimtmak 
lamaiya  atmat  purtt  rinhayo  antam  upuh  |  yitn  ntdtaram  elm 
pitaram  cha  lilkam  ajanayalhtU  tamah  tcdydh) ;  as  having  bestowed 
them  on  his  worshippers  (iii.  34,  8.  SatSmi  yah  prithii\ik  dyim 
Vietnam) ;  as  sustaining  and  upholding  them  (dadkura  yah  prilhirtm 
dyCm  uUmim)  (iii.  32,8;  iii.  44,  3;  vi.  17,  7;  a.  66,  l);tt  as 
grasping  them  in  his  hand  (iii.  30,  6.  Jim  chid  Indra  rodaA  apart  yti 
whgrtlhnah  mttyhatan  kdiir  it  It);  as  stretching  them  out  like  a  hide 
(viii.  6.  5.  Ojat  tad  aiya  litciiht  ubht  yat  tamatarttayat  |  Jndrai  ehar- 
mtta  rodati).  The  same  deitj  is  elsewhere  (vi.  30,  1)  said  to  transcend 
heaven  and  earth,  which  are  equal  to  only  a  half  of  the  god" 


l"(i¥» 


M  Thb  phrase  is,  perhnp»,  primarily  meant  as  un  eulojrj  of  the  heaven  ass] 
by  nprtflring  that  be  must  Lave  bean  a  most  glorious  being  who  -wis  the 
so  grand  a  production  as  heaven  and  earth  (too  Sarins  on  E.V.  L  160,  4,  who  says, 
"that  haiiug  in  thn  previous  vtnt  magnified  the  heaven  and  earth  by  landing 
th«r  acm  the  »un,  the  poot  no*  magnifies  thorn  by  exalting  their  mxVit ").  Dot  it 
also  appears  to  intimate  that,  in  the  ides  of  the  writer,  the  bcarca  and  earth  were, 
after  all,  produced  lij  some  sweater  bang.  In  Iv.  17,  4,  it  is  similarly  said  that "  the 
maker  of  Jndra  Has  a  most  skilful  artist." 

*■  The  A  V.  xii.  1.  10,  says:  "May  our  mother  tho  earth  whom  Iodrs,  thalerd 
of  power,  made,  friendly  to  himself,  give  milk  to  me  her  sen  (/aoVo  yam  thmktt  it- 
mam  *M»n(rum  iach~>p<tt<h  \  to  no  thumir  niryal»m  m7'l''i  putttifo  tut 


°  Who  are  tho  Bona  or  children  of  Indra's  brother  (Mruim*  pulrait)  nustioaed  ia 
this  Terse,  and  who  ia  the  brother  P 

-  In  riii.  69,  5,  it  is  said  :  "  If,  Indra,  s  hundred  heavens  and  a  hundred  earths 
ware  thine,  a  thousand  raw  could  sot  equal  thoo,  thnnderer,  nor  anything  bora, 
nor  both  worlds"  (*W  dyat*Jf  Imir*  U  itlam  ittrn  tkimir  uU  tyu*  |  aw  tta  ne/rta 
Mkatrtm  turyTk  ema  mtjil^m  »Afa  rcJ*n). 


IS   REPRESENTED   IN   THE   RIO-VEDA. 


31 


riritJ*  ditah  Indrah  pfUhivyAh  arddham  id  atya  prali  rodatl  ulht); 
sad  they  are  further  represented  as  following  him  as  a  chariot  wheel  a 
bono  (riii.  6,  88.  Ana  hi  ratal  ubha  chatraih  im  parlti  eiaiam) ;  ai 
bowing  down  before  him  (i.  131,  1.  Indriya  hi  Dyaur  aturo  anamnal* 
Iniruya  mahi  prithiti  varlmabhih);*  as  trembling  from  fear  of  him  (it. 
17,  9.  Taea  Uritho  janiman  rejata  Dyauh  rv'od  bhumir  bhiyati  tvatya 
wsnyoh"  |  8eo  also  iv.  22,  3  f. ;  vi.  17,  9;  viii.  86,  14)  ;  as  being  dis- 
torted by  bis  greatness  (vii.  23,  3.  Vi  bidhMfa  rodoti  nuhitta  Indrah); 
a*  subject  to  his  dominion  (i.  89, 10.  Indro  ditah  Indrah  lit  prilhi- 
rynK) ;  and  as  doing  homage  to  his  power  (viii.  82,  12.  Adha  U  apra- 
tiiAhtUm  dttl  tiuhoum  taparyatah  |  ubht  tuiipra  rodatl).  The  creation 
of  heaven  and  earth  is  oho  ascribed  to  other  deities,  as  to  Soma  and 
Puihan  (ii-  40,  1.  Somt&piuhanu  janana  rayln&n  janana  divo  jenini 
myithityih) ;  to  Soma  (iz.  98,  9.  Sa  tuiih  yajnuhm  Jfanavl  Indvr 
janulfa  ratal  |  daco  dart  ityddi  |  °  Sec  also  ix.  90,  1 ;  ii.  96,  5) ;  to 
Dhatri  (x.  190,  3.  SurySHnaadranotaa  Dhutd  yathup*rrimu  aiai- 
payat  \  diva  A  cha  prUhivIm  cka  tnlariktham  atho  avak) ;  to  Hiraova- 
garbha  (x.  121,  9.  Mi  no  hithtij  janiUX  yah  prithivyih  yo  rd  duark 
aatyadharmi  j'ajina  |  Comp.  v.  5) ;  they  are  declared  to  hare  received 
their  shape  and  variety  of  forms,  from  Trashtri,  though  themselves 
parents  (x.  110,  9.  Yah  ima  dy&capritkitl  janitri  repair  apiAiad  bhu- 
r  and  hi  rurr<j) ;  to  have  sprang  respective! 7  from  tho  head  and  the  feet 
of  Purasha  (x.  90,  14.  JS'dbkyah  atya  antarikahatn  ilrihno  dyauh  tataa- 
tarttata  I  padbky&fh  bkamih);  and  to  be  sustained  or  supported  by 
Mitra  (iiL  29,  1),  by  Savitri  (iv.  53,  2;  x.  149,  1.  Savitd  yanlraih  pri- 

"  Heaven  (Dvtoi)  is  hero  styled  ontrnK.  "  (be  divine."  as  alto  In  LiL  63,  T. 

"  It  Wright  »t  list  light  appear  as  if,  according  to  thn  fourth  tene  of  tliin  hymn 
(it.  1 7.  4),  the  Heaven,  Dyaui,  wai  the  father  of  Indra  (wo  Professor  Wilson's 
tTMulatiftu,  Tol.  iii.  p.  151).  But  tho  meaning  «eem»  to  bo :  •'  The  Heaven  e*termed 
that  lit  father  was  a  stalwart  hero :  he  was  a  most  tlilful  artist  who  mado 
India,  who  produced  the  celestial  thunderer.  unshaken,  as  the  world  (cannot  ho 
ahakaa)  front  Hi  place."  This  u  confirmed  by  rern  1,  which  says  that  the  Heaven 
acknowledged  India's  power ;  and  by  verto  2,  which  represents  it  as  trembling  at  bis 
birth.    Sec  also  vi.  72,  S. 

•  Th«  two  worlds.  r«dan,  ar«  hers  slylod  «f#r»,  "  divine,"  and  awwi,  "human," 
or  "consorted  with  men,"  or  " friendly  to  men." 

**  It  ii  remarkable  that  here  Dkttri  is  said  to  hare  formed  the  ion.  noon.  sky, 
•arte,  air,  xad  hearsn,  sa  be  fore ;  as  if,  agrceahly  In  the  Pnranic  conception,  thry 
bad  previously  existed,  and  been  destroyed.  See  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work.  Sod  ed. 
pp.  M,  *&,  7ft. 


32 


THE    INDIAN   GODS   GENERALLY, 


thivlm  erammiil  tukambhane  SavitA  dyAm  adrimkat),  by  Yaruqa  (vi.  70, 
1  ;  vii.  86,  1 ;  viii.  42,  1),  by  Inilra  and  Soma  (vi.  72,  2),  by  Soma 
(ix.  87,  2),  und  by  niraoyngarbha  (x.  121,  5). 


(4)  Speculations  about  their  origin. 


Ia  other  passages  wo  encounter  various  speculations  about  their 
origin.  In  i.  185,  1,  the  perplexed  poet  raqaira,  "Which  of 
those  two  was  tho  fint,8*  and  which  tho  lost?  How  hare  they 
been  produced?  Sages,  who  knows?"  (KatarA  pHrrA  katard  epara 
ayoh  hatha  jute  kacayoh  ko  vi  veda)."  In  vii.  34,  2,  the  water*  aw 
wiid  to  know  tho  birth-place  of  heaven  and  earth  (ciduh  pritkiryah 
divo  j'aniiraih  irinvanti  Cipo  adha  htharanllh).  In  x.  31,  7,  the  Itiahi 
asks:  "Whnt  was  the  forest,  wLat  was  the  tree,  from  which  they 
fashioned  the  heaven  and  the  earth,  which  abide  undecaying  and  per- 
petual, (whilst)  the  days)  and  many  dawus  have  disappeared?"  (lift 
nii  ronaih  hah  v  sa  rrifakah  dea  ijato  dyHvH-prithicX  nuhfatakthuh  | 
tathtatlhane  ajare  ita&tl  ahuni  purtlr  ushato  jaranta).  This  question  is 
repeated  ia  x.  81,  4  ;M  and  iu  the  stuue  hymn  (verses  2  and  3)  the 
creation  of  heaven  and  earth  is  ascribed  to  tho  sole  agency  of  the  god 
Yiivakarman:*'  2.  "What was  tho  support,  what  and  how  waa  th« 
basis  from  which  by  his  might  the  all-seeing  Yisvakarman  produced 
tho  earth,  and  spread  out  the  sky?  3.  The  one  god  who  has  on  erery 
aido  eyes,  facos,  armB,  and  fee*,  blows  with  his  arms  and  hi*  wings, 
when  producing  the  heaven  and  earth  "  (2.  ATm  tvid  uxid  adhinhfhdnam 
Arambhaiwih  katamat  iril  katM  AM  |  yato  bhumiih  janayan  ViirakarmA 
ei  dyAm  attrnod  mahinA  viicaehakthuh  |  3.  VikataSekakthur  uta  eifeata- 
rtukho  ti&vatolnkur  uta  rikatntptit  |  imj  bCthubhyam  dkamati  mm  paU- 

*•  S'ltap.  Br.  sir.  1.  2,  10,  Jyam  prilAivi  bhutiuya  prtrthanu-jii,  "  This  earth  is 
the  firstborn  of  created  things." 

w  Compare  J'rofc**or  Midler's  Lecture*  oa  Language,  ii.  488,  ond  N  initio  iii.  22. 

"  Bet  olio  the  Taitt  Br.  ii.  8,  9,  0,  where  tho  awwer  is  (circa,  "  Brahma  »•»  tat 
forott,  Brahma  was  thi»t  tree  from  which  they  faihioacd  hcaT«n  aad  osrtli "  (£raAn» 
ronam  Brthma  ia  trUahah  in'ni  yato  dyatijprithirl  nitklataki/mh).  In  A.V.  xii.  I, 
60,  VUmkarman  is  mid  to  have  sought  the  earth  with  an  oblation  whea  she  had 
entered  into  the  flnid  atmotphrrc  (yam  am-airhhad  Vuvafarma  antar  trn^tv  r»j*ai 
prariih-latn).  Compatv  the  account*  ill  the  Br'ihnian ■  ■■•■  uiiil  T'ituqu  of  the  earth 
being  sank  beneath  the  waters  at  tho  creation,  1st  toL  of  this  work,  2nd  «L  pp. 
60-«.i. 

•»  Se«  the  4lh  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  4  ff.t  aad  Haag's  Aittreja  Bruhmsuo,  ii.  V09. 


AS   REPRESENTED   IN    THE    RIG-YEIM. 


33 


trair  dytird-bhtml  jnnayam  decah  ekah).  In  x.  72,  which  will  be 
quoted  in  the  next  section,  a  different  account  is  given  of  tho  origin  of 
heaven  and  earth.  la  R.V.  x.  129,  1,  it  is  said  that  originally  there 
was  "  nothing  cither  non-existent  or  existent,  do  atmosphere  or 
beyond"  (na  <nod  arid  no  *ad  Silt  tadanlm  na  <U\d  rojv  M  vyoma  paro 
y«/);  *»d  in  Taitt  Br.  ii.  2,  9,  1  ff.,  it  is  declared,  that  "formerly 
nothing  existed,  neither  heaven,  nor  earth,  nor  atmosphere,"  ami  tV-ir 
formation  is  described:  "That,  being  non-existrur,  rwoh  I  mo 

become,'"  «to.  [idaih  mi  agrt  naita  kiaehana  (l»)t  |  M  dyaur  ant  |  na 
jtfitXit)  |  na  antarikxhan  \  tad  asad  eva  tan  tnano  'kuruta  "  tynm  "  Hi  J 
The  passage  is  quoted  at  length  in  tho  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  27  ff.) 
It  is,  as  wo  have  already  seen  (p.  2-1),  a  conception  of  the  Greek,  as 
well  as  of  the  oldest  Indian,  mythology,  that  the  gods  sprang  from 
II"  area  mid  earth  (in  the  former  case  Ourunos  and  tiaia).  The  Indian 
god  who  is  represented  in  the  Veda  as  the  consort  of  the  Earth  and  tho 
progenitor  of  the  gods,  docs  not,  howovcr,  as  wo  have  seen,  hear  the  same 
name  as  tho  corresponding  divinity  among  tho  Grcoks,  bat  is  called  Dga\u, 
or  Dyau*J\  pilar.  But  this  latter  name  is  in  its  origin  ideutieul  with  Zeus, 
or  Zeus  pater,  and  Jupiter,  or  Diespittr,  the  appellations  given  to  the 
supreme  god  of  the  Greeks  and  Romans,"  whom  ILsiod  represents  ui 
the  grandson  of  Ouranos.  On  the  other  hand,  the  name  of  Ouranos 
cofTvspoodx  to  that  of  the  Indian  deity  Varutja,  who,  though  ho  is  not 
regarded  as  the  progenitor  of  the  gods,  yet,  as  wc  shall  see  more  fully 
in  a  future  section,  is  considered  to  coincide  with  Ouranos  in  repre- 
senting the  sky. 

Tbn  word  Frithivl,  on  the  other  hand,  which  in  most  pnrts  of  the 
Rig-red*  is  used  for  Earth,  has  no  connection  with  any  Greek  word  of 
the  same  meaning.     It  seems,  however,  originally  to  hare  been  BUT 
an  epithet,  meaning  "broad;"*'  and  may  have  supplanted  the  older 


•  For  tat  proof  of  th«  identity  of  Djbui  and  Ziua,  see  Prof.  Mutter's  Lectures  on 
Language,  i.  11  ,  a.  ISA  i**j  fat  M.  Ureal.  "HrreuU:  tt  OSOBS,"  11.12;  Hartong. 
"Rsiifion  and  MTihnlrijrie  dcr  GrtKheo,"  ILvf.  :  iii.  1  ff.  Sec  »l*o  iii.  pp.  tf£,  au<l 
sad  76  L  at  the  last-rumcil  work.  wbtN  Hera,  the  consort  of  Z«u»,  it  described  »a  a 
msissnUliw  ef  the  earth,  and  where  TJrano*  and  Gaea,  Kronos  and  i:h, 
wl  Hum,  though  itssmhan1  in  th*  Greek  mytholc-iry  as  saccoauvo  pair*  of  deiticw, 
arr  yet  aa*rtr4  to  l*  r&xstialiT  tho  sans  oouples,  mt.li  aid  ml  names. 

**  Compare  in  ta«  unt  Toliimo  of  this  work,  pp.  62.  03,  two  psssogn  from  the 
Tsittirlja  SaaluU  sad  Brahmins,  in  which  the  fonuatioa  of  the  earth  i«  drarribed, 

3 


34  THE  INDIAN  G0D8  GENERALLY, 

word  60,  which  (with  Om&  and  Jm&)  stands  at  the  head  of  the  earliest 
Indian  vocabulary,  the  Nighantu,  as  one  of  the  synonyms  of  PrithivT 
(earth),  and  which  closely  resembles  the  Greek  Tma  or  rij.  In  this  way 
Oaur  tnatar  may  possibly  have  once  corresponded  to  the  r*  part?  or 
Awfrnp  of  the  Greeks. 

Professor  Benfey  (Orient  nnd  Occident,  i.  48,  note  275,  which  the 
German  reader  may  consult),  and  M.  Michel  Bre"al  (Hercnle  et  Cacns, 
p.  101)  are  of  opinion  that  the  functions  which  in  the  older  Indian 
mythology  were  assigned  to  Dyans,  were  at  a  later  period  transferred 
to  Indra,  whose  characteristics  will  form  the  subject  of  a  later  section. 

and  in  which  it  is  said  to  have  derived  the  name  of  PrithiW  from  it»  being  extended 
(mpratlutta).  See  alio  B.V.  ii.  16,  2,  ta  dttirayot  priikmm  paprmlhmt  cU  [  "Hi 
upheld  the  earth  (prithivi),  and  spread  it  out"  {paprathat). 


AS   REPRESENTED    IN   THE    UIG-VEDA.  35 


SECTION    III. 

ADITI." 

I  proceed  to  Aditi,  who  i«,  in  idea  at  leant,  if  not  chronologically, 
one  of  the  older  Indian  doilies,  and  who  in  tho  only  goddess,  except 
NishtigrI"  and  U alius,  whom  1  haro  noticed  as  specified  by  numo  in 
the  B.Y.  on  (he  mother  of  any  of  the  gods. 

( 1 )   TKt  tpitluU  by  which  the  it  eharacUrnti. 

Though  not  tho  subject  of  any  separate  hymn,  Aditi  is  an  object  of  fre- 
quent celebration  in  the  Kig-veda,  where  she  is  supplicated  for  blessings 
on  children  and  cattle  (as  in  i.  43,  2.  yathd  no  Aditih  karat  putve  nfihhyo 
yalka  par*  |  yathd  tnlHya  rudrit/am),  for  protection  and  for  forgiveness. 
She  is  represented,  as  we  have  already  seen  (p.  IS),  as  the  boSm 
of  Vornnn  and  some  of  tho  other  deilice.  In  the  NighaotUi  or 
ancient  Tocabalary  prefixed  to  the  Niruktu,  tho  word  Aditi  is  gi-rcn 
•  synonym  (1)  of  prilkiel,  the  earth;  (2)  of  twIrA,  roico;  (3)  of  go, 
cow;"  and  (A)  in  tho  doal,  of  ttyacd-prithicyan,  hearen  and  earth 
(Si«h.  i.  1,  11  ;  2,  11  ;  3,  30).  In  the  Nirnkta  (iv.  22)  she  is  defined 
as  the  mighty  mother  of  tho  gods  {ad\n&  d*va-n\&t><).H     In  another  part 

M  Before  ninnsis—riing  the  rerWon  of  this  sectinn.  I  hod  rewired  the  flrrt  »ol.  of 
Prof.  Hullor**  toamUtion  of  th«  Rig-T#da,  which  contain*,  pp.  230-251,  an  abl* 
tWerUtwo  on  Aditi.     Sc«  tho  nunc  author' •  Lcctnra  on  Luigiinfri',  ii.  600. 

**  Sn  not*  La  p.  13. 

•  Compart  R.V.  yiii.  90,  1ft,  yiita  omsHm  mlilim;  and  VfiJ.  Sanh.  xiii.  t.t,  wht-rr 
Ainu  n  Mippliealad  not  to  injure  her  (flaw  ma  Aimtir  Aditia  vir<yom),  and  49 
(fhntsm  duh.jn.zm  4Jit<mj,tnnya). 

*  In  R.V.  L  113,  19,  C»W  (the  dawn)  ia  •rjrled  •'  the  mcthe*  of  the  Rod*,  and  the 
aaanifuttatiun  of  Aditi "  (ma/3  Jtriitam  Aditrr  nnikam)  ;  or,  us  Suyiioa  taplaiai,  th« 
rhml  0/  Aditi.  frnan  her  appearing,  to  coll  all  the  god*  into  misknOS  when  thiy  »ro 
vonhippari  in  the  morning.  M  Aditi  really  gare  them  hirth.  Compare  i.  IIS,  1. 
MHllsr,  TranaL  of  B.V.  L  231,  render*  AdiUr  anikam,  •■  the  faoa  of  AdiuA 


36 


THE  INDIAN  G0D3  GENERALLY, 


(xi.  22)  of  the  same  work  (where  the  different  gods  are  taken 
order  in  which  they  are  found  in  the  list  in  the  Nigharj^u,  chip.  5)  she 
is  placed  at  the  hoitd  of  the  female  divinities  of  the  intermediate  region 
{a(ha  ato  mmdhya-stdnah  striyah  \  tutOut  Aditifr  prathamO^aminJ  bka- 
vati).  In  numerous  texts  of  the  E.V.  Aditi  is  styled  the  "  goddess," 
or  the  "divine"  (deci)  (as  in  iv.  55,  3,  7j  v.  51,  II ;  vi.  50,  1  ;  • 
38,  4;  vii.  40,  2  ;  viii.  25,  10  ;  viii.  27,  5  ;  viii.  5&,  10),  the  "  irre- 
sUtible  goddess"  (Z*fl  AiiUt  aitarrS,  ii.  10,  6;  vii.  40,  4 ;  x.  92,  14), 
"  the  luminous,"  the  supporter  of  creatures,  the  celestial ''  {jyotuk- 
t/utUm  Ailitim  dhnrayiit-kiihilim"  narrnUm,  i.  136,  3),  the  "widely 
expanded"  {uru-cyachah,"  v.  4S,  6),  the  friend  of  all  men"  {n.- 
janyGm,  vii.  10,  4).  In  v.  C9,  3,  the  rishi  exclaims:  "  In  the  morning 
I  continu ally  invoke  the  divine  Aditi,  at  mid-day,  «t  the  setting**  of 
the  sun"  (prdtor  devim  Aditi™  j"hnmni  mtidtii/andiiui  udilA  mryasya.) 
In  i.  185,  3,  her  gifts — pure,  unassailable,  celestial,  imperishable,  and 
inspiring  veneration, — are  supplicated  (antho  dtitram  Aditer  anarvam  iwrs 
ttarvad  acadJuim  namtuvat);  and  in  another  place  (i.  166,  12)  the  large 
blessings  conferred  by  the  Maruta  are  compared  to  the  beneficent  deeds 
of  Aditi  (dlrpham  N  d&lram  Aditer  tea  craiom).m  In  iv.  55,  3,  she  is 
styled  Pastyu,  which  Frofessor  Roth  understands  to  mean  a  housed 
goddess  (oomp.  M tiller,  p.  248).  In  the  Vnj.  S.  she  is  thus  celebrated, 
21,  5  (=A.V.  vii.  6,  2):  "  Let  us  invoke  to  aid  us  the  great  mother 
of  the  devout,  the  mistress  of  the  ceremonial,  the  strong  in  might,  the 
undecaying,  the  uiduly-extendcd,  tho  protecting,  the  skilfully  guiding 
Aditi"  (mnhlm  ti  thu  mfUaram  nuvmlanam  fl'faajrfl  patnlm  avast  Minima \ 
tuvikihatrut*  ojarantlm  urdchiih  luiarmQnam  Aditifit  tupranUim. 


**  See  Roth  ia  Journ.  Germ.  Or.  8ociety,  n.  C9 ;  sad  compsrs  R.V.  vii,  : 
"  Wc  cclcbrstn  thi   ti  b  |  .  ■  t  light  of  Ailiti,"  tie.  {atodkrau.jyotih). 

•*  The  same  epiUiet.  dkanyat-kiAUi,  is,  in  B.V.  I.  132,  2,  applied  to  Ultra 
Vanraa,  the  sod*  of  Aditi. 

«  Compare  Tsitt.  Br.  ii.  4,  2,  7  :  S*ma  Aa  noma  pplkm  rfAait.tiyayo  riir^theh 
jJJitih  turyalrak- 

•  Tdp  word  uditi  hire  it  understand  both  by  Both  (».».).  by  Kuhn  (in  hit  review 
of  tbii  essay),  and  M idler  (Tninsl.  R.V.  i.  231,  232),  to  signify  the  sotting  of  U>«  ran. 

**  Miillcr,  p.  199,  translate*  thin:  "your  bounty  extendi  as  tar  as  the  sway  of 
Aditi."    See  his  note  on  the  different  senses  of  vnia,  pp.  22*  ff. 


AS  REPRESENTED  IN  THE  RIG-VEDA. 


37 


(2)  On  fin  of  the  conception  of  Aditi  according  h  Profutort  Roth  and 

Mtllltr. 

In  the  Lexicon  of  Bohtlingk  and  Roth  the  word  aditi  is  taken  (In 
tddition  to  other  senses  which  are  aUo  assigned)  to  signify  *'  infinity, 
especially  the  boundlessness  of  heaven  in  opposition  to  the  finiteness  of 
the  earth,  and  its  spaces ;  "  and  this  signification  is  considered  to  be 
personified  in  the  goddess  Aditi.  In  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta, 
pp.  150  f.  Professor  Both  had  understood  the  word  to  mean  "  inviola- 
bility," "irapcriBhablenew ;"  and  when  personified  os  a  goddess,  to  denote 
eternity,  her  sons  the  Adityas  being  tho  sons  of  eternity,  and  the  solar 
and  luminous  gods  Varuna,  Mitrn,  Aryaman,  Bhago,  etc.,  being  prc- 
emiaently  tho  eternal  deities,  as  light  was  regarded  at  tho  immaterial 
and  eternal  principle.  In  his  esaay  on  tho  highest  gods  of  the  Arian 
nations  (Journ.  of  tho  German  Or.  Society,  vi.  68  f.)  the  Bame  writer 
■ays :  "  Aditi,  eternity,  or  the  eternal,  is  the  element  which  sustains, 
and  is  sustained  by,  the  Adityas.  This  conception,  owing  to  tho 
i  octet  of  what  it  embraces,  had  not  in  the  Vedas  been  carried  out 
into  a  definite  personification,  though  the  beginings  of  such  are  not 

wanting This  eternal  and  inviolable  principle,  in  which  Am 

Adityas  live,  and  which  constitutes  their  essence,  is  the  celestial 
light." 

In  a  note  on  R.V.  i.  ICG,  13  (Trans,  of  the  Big-vtsda,  i.  230), 
Professor  M  iiller  says  that  "Aditi,  ao  ancient  god  or  goddess,  is  in 
reality  the  earliest  name  invented  to  express  tho  Infinite ;  not  tho 
Infinite  as  tho  result  of  a  long  process  of  abstract  reasoning,  but  tho 
visiblo  Infinite,  visible  by  the  naked  eye,  the  endless  expanse,  beyond 
the  earth,  beyond  the  clouds,  beyond  the  sky."  And  in  tho  next  page 
be  goes  on  to  remark  that  "  if  we  keep  this  original  conception  (tho 
conception  which  he  has  explained  in  those  two  pages)  of  Aditi  clearly 
before  as,  the  various  forms  which  Aditi  assumes,  even  in  the  hymns 
of  tho  Veda,  will  not  seem  incoherent. 


(3)  Aditi  at  ike  molhtr  of  the  Adityas. 

I  proceed  to  adduce  somo  of  tho  other  texts  in  which  Aditi  is  de- 
scribed and  characterized,  and  begin  with  those  in  which  she  is  repre- 
sented u  tho  mother  of  Varuna  and  the  other  kindred  gods : 


SM 


THE   INDIAN    GODS   0KNKKV1I.Y. 


viii.  25,  3.  T&  mats  omawthua  amry&ya  pramahttu  \  m«h\  joj&n* 
Aditir  riturari  \  "The  mother,  tho  groat,  the  holy  Aditi,  brought 
forth  these  twain  (Mitra  and  Varuna),  the  mighty  lords  of  all  wcolt 
that  they  might  exercise  divine  power." 

viii.  47,  9.  Aditir  nah  um*hya(\t  Aditir  iarma  yaekhatu  |  m&tA 
tratya  mato  Aryamno  Faruntut/a  cha  anthaialf  |  "May  Aditi  d 
hh.  may  Aditi  grant  us  protection,  she  who  is  the  mother  of  the  opulent 
Mitm,  of  Aryumnn,  and  of  tho  sinless  Varuna.     See  oho  x.  30,  3,  and 
x.  132,  6;  and  A.V.  t.  1,  9. 

In  It.  V.  ii.  27,  7,  eho  is  styled  raja-putrd,n  "  the  mother  of  kings  ;» 
in  iii  4,  11,  tu-putrH,  "  the  mother  of  excellent  aons ; "  in  viii.  66,  II, 
as  uyra-putril,  "  the  mother  of  powerful  sons ;  "  and  in  Atharro-vcda, 
iii.  8,  2;  xi.  1,  11,  "tho  divine  Aditi,  mother  of  heroes"  (i&ra-j 
All  these  epithets  have  obviously  reference  to  Varuna  and  the  other 
A'lityns  a»  her  offspring.  In  A.V.  viji.  9,  21,  ahe  is  called  Aditi,  who 
had  an  eight-fold  parturition,  who  had  eight  sons"  (juhfa-ynnir  Aditir 
athfajnUrU).  In  viii.  90,  16,  (referred  to  by  Professor  M  Ciller  in  his 
I.nttiroa  ii.  601,  and  in  his  Trans,  of  the  H.V.  i.  p.  237),  Aditi  appears 
to  be  described  as  the  daughter  of  the  Vasus,  the  sister  of  the  Adityas, 
and  the  mother  of  Iiudrus  (jniita  rttdrOnilth  duhila  vai&naih  iraad  "sW- 
yiln&m  amrUatya  nubhih  \  pra  nu  vttchaih  cliiiitutke  janHya  md  t/tlm  a*i~- 
yrtm  Aditiiii  vadhuhfa). 

In  the  8iima-vod»  (=A.  V.  vi.  4,  1)  tho  brothers  as  well  as  tho  sons 
of  Aditi  appear  to  be  montioncd,  i.  299 :  "  May  Tvashfri,  Parjanya, 
and  Hralimaijaspati  [preserve]  our  divine  utterance,  May  Aditi  with 
ilu  i)  sons  and  brothers  preserve  our  invincible  and  protecting  utt 
Bnoo""  {Ttiathfd  no  duivyam  eaflhak  Parjanya  Itrahmapupatih  \  pulrair 
bhrntribhir  Aditir  nu  p&tu  m  dmhfaram  tnlnuinaih  cachak).  Who  her 
brothers  moy  be,  does  not  appear. 


(4)  /•  Aditi  ever  identified  with  the  iky  f 

In  another  passage  of  tho  R.V.  x.  63,  2,  Aditi  is  thus  mentioned, 
along  with  the  waters,  and  the  earth,  as  one  of  tho  source*  from  which 

"  Id  ii.  27,  1,  tin   rpil.li.rt   rajalhya),  ••  kinirV'  is  applied  to  all  tho  sit  Adit; 
there  aimed. 

■  Bpafry.horcvpr,  understand*  tho  nan«and  brother*  tobothowof  tho  womMpptr. 
■SJSffltl  rathah  the  .\.V.  rcodi  lrtynmiM»  taltah,  "dolirwing  force." 


IS  Bl'KESK.VTBD  IN  THE  RIO-VEDA. 


99 


the  gods  had  been  generated :  •'  All  your  names,  yo  god«,  are  to  bo 
revered,  adored,  and  worshipped ;  yo  who  were  born  from  Aditi,**  from 
the  watt-re,  yo  who  are  born  from  the  earth,  listen  here  to  my  invo- 
cation" (I  wriJ  hi  re  natwuyHiii  tandyil  nSm&ni dtvUh  uta yajniyani  vak  | 
y*  Mthajatah  Adittr  adbhya*  pari  y*  prilhivijilB  U  me  iha  irtUa  htuam  \). 
In  thit  passage  we  appear  to  find  the  same  triple  classification  of  gods 
aa  celestial,  intermediate,  and  terrestrial  (r.omp.  A.V.  x.  9,  12),  which 
wo  haTO  already  met  with  in  R.V.  i.  139,  11,™  and  in  the  Nirukta. 
The  gods  mentioned  in  tho  verso  before  us  as  sprung  from  Aditi,  might 
thus  correspond  to  tho  celestial  gods,  among  whom  the  Adityaa  are 
specified  by  Ya&ka  aa  the  first  class,  or  to  the  Adityaa  alone.'4 

Tho  hymn  before  ua  prooeods  in  tho  next  vera©  (x.  63, 3) :  "Gladden, 
in  order  to  promote  our  well-being,  those  Adityaa,  who  are  invigorated 
by  hymns,  the  bringere  of  vigour,  the  energetic,  to  whom  their  mother 
the  aky,   Aditi,  (or  the  infinite  aky),"  towering  to  the  empyrean, 


**  Both,  In  his  Leiioon,  understands  the  word  Aditi  in  thu  passage  to  mean  "  b> 
the  boundlaamraa  of  heaven  at  opposed  to  the  limitation  of  earth. 

n  Tho  tamo  threefold  origin  of  the  god*,  together  with  thr.  u»  of  tho  word 
"  waters,"  to  denote  th*  intermediate  region,  is  found  also  in  z.  49,  2,  when  it  it 
■aid :  awn  dkw  fndram  mama  davotiik  diaaa  tka  gmai  tka  apam  tka  jaittarab  | 
"The  goda,  both  those  who  arc  tho  olfrpring  of  the  »ky,  of  the  earth,  and  of  the 
[aerial]  water*,  hat*  attipieil  to  me  the  imiin-  of  Imlr.i ;  "  uinl  in  x  r*5,  9,  the  pu<t 
ear*:  I'ar^iHft-l^la  e*-i*A*»An  purhhiQa  Mrs. yoyu  V*r\m*  Milro  Aryama  \ 
rfmin  AJUyam  A'l'tiit  kenamakt  yt  pTirlkifut  dirynm  apiu  yt  ]  "  Piiijuila,  Vita, 

rigoroejs  and  ihcddcrs  of  moitture,  Iudra,  VSjro,  Varuna,  Mitra,  Aryaman:  We 
broke  the  dirinc  Adityaa,  Aditi,  those  (gods)  who  are  terrestrial,  celestial,  who 
(exist)  ia  the  aerial  waters."  Tho  word  "waters"  strait  to  be  need  in  the  stats 
of  air.  ia  li.  38,  11,  and  s.  45,  1.  Compare  alto  vii.  35,  11,  where  the  god*  are 
daatrd  as  aVej*,  partkic*,  and  apya  (oclMtial,  earthly,  and  aerial,  apau  atfariJuaa 
M*+~>h :  Siyeaul,  r.  1«  of  tho  ■amw  hymn  where  they  are  dirided  into  *tya, 
piiUuam,  (celestial,  earthly),  and  fofila  |  and  'i.  50.  11,  where  they  are  ditunguiabed 
aa  earye,  ptirikwa,  gar"*-  and  apya  (cWeatial.  earthly,  g«j"la,  and  aerial,  tfiyaoa 
on  R.V.  fit.  35.  It.  explains eq/oto  aa Pfiiatrjatah  "born  el  'O.  11, 

he  easn«tavia«s  Prirfni  at  madhyamika  wok,  "  th»  VM  r.t  the  middle  region." 
In  the  former  of  these  two  passages,  if  the  threefold  dlrition  of  gods  ia  maintained 
f?f'ta  ougbt  to  be  =  apya :  but  in  the  latter  pMaaga  we  hare  a  fourfold  di< 
toad  at  the  apya  goda  are  one  of  the  (bur  olaaacs,  pojTua  oupht  to  designate  a  dif- 
seren!  tiaaa.  Beth  so  explain*  tho  laet  word  a*  meaning  the  god*  of  the  atarry  hrntrn. 
"  Nsrokta  XlL  3b:  Atkalo  dyntthanah  dnafanAh  |  Uskiim  Adityii}  pnUhaam- 

T»  The  word  foe  "aky"  here  ia  Dyav,  whirh,  if  me  rendering  in  eecreet,  ■ 
•hi*  aa— age  be  regarded  a*  feminine,  though,  at  we  h«*c  teen,  it  i#  gtcufally  maa- 
awlina,  and  sVrigaated  a*  faihrr .     In  v.  SO,  b,  dw  word*  Jyam  and  asM . 


40 


THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY, 


supplies  tho  sweet  ambrosial  fluid  "  ( Yebhyo  maid  madfnmat  pimaU 
pnyah  plyilthafii  dyaur  aditir  adri-barhnh  |  uldha-huhmin  critfmbharin 
irapMtua-n  tan  Adityiin  anu  mada  nvattayt).  This  verse,  in  which  it  may 
seem  that  Adit*  is  cither  identified  with,  or  regarded  as  on  epithet  of, 
the  sky,  appears  rather  to  confirm  the  view  I  have  taken  of  too  one 
which  precedes.  The  tenor  of  K.V.  x.  65,  9,  quoted  in  a  preceding 
foot-note  ("),  seems,  however,  opposed  to  this  identification  of  Aditi 
will i  the  sky,  as  she  and  her  sons  the  Adityas  are  there  mentioned 
separately  from  the  other  gods  who  arc  the  inhabitants  of  the  three 
different  spheres ;  though  possibly  the  last  named  classification  may  bo 
meant  to  sum  up  idl  the  gods  beforu  enumerated,  and  so  to  compre- 
hend the  Adityas  also. 

(8)  Adili  mm  to  bt  dittingtii*h*d  from  tht  Earth. 

But  even  if  we  suppose  that  in  the  preceding  passages  it  is  int 
to  identify  Adili  with  the  sky,  this  identification  is  very  far  from  being 
consistently  maintained  in  the  hyuins.  Audit  is  equally  difflt-u  It  td 
take  the  word  as  a  constant  synonym  of  the  Earth.  For  although,  as 
we  have  scon,  Adili  is  given  in  the  Nighuntu  as  one  of  the  names  of 
the  Earth,  nnd  in  the  dual  as  equivalent  to  Heaven  and  Earth,  and 
though  in  the  obscure  verse  11.  V.  i.  72,  9,  and  in  Atharvavcdi,  liii. 
1,  38,  she  may  appear  to  be  identified  with  the  Earth.'*  we  find  her  in 
many  passages  of  tho  Rig-vcda  mentioned  separately,  and  as  if  sho 
were  distinct  from  both  the  one  and  tho  other.  Thua,  iu  iii.  b\, 
20,  it  is  said:  •'  Srinotu  nah  prithirt  dyaur  utilpah  t&ryo  nakaitti 
uru  anfarHuham  |  20  .  .  .  Adilyair  no  Aihhl,  irmolu  |  "May 
Earth  and  the  Heaven  hear  us,  the  Water,  the  Sun  with  tho  stars, 
the  wide  Atmosphere  ....  20  May  Aditi  with  the  Adityas  hoar  us; 

uuili-d  :  mimalu  dyaur  nr/i.'iA,  c>tc,  Prnfrwnr  Mulhtr  Ukm  aditi  in  z.  63.  3,  i 
aa  in  t.  6»,  8,  for  an  adjectit*,  and  renders  the  II  wi  half  of  the  former  ram  lliu»: 
"The  rod»to  whom  ftsfa  BOthlf  yield*  th»  nreftt  milk,  and  thp  mil  luudi  I  «ky,  M 
firm  u  ■  rock,  their  food"  (pp.  '243  and  249).  Itui  we  thould  thus  hai«  to  lake 
Aditi  in  different  aeasce  in  two  MJofarlnaj  teraea.     In  t.  2  of  this  hymn  Prnf.  Mi 

like*  Aditi  aa  signifying  the  goddeas  (p.  240).    For  adritarha*  IN 
uml  Under  barhai. 

n  R.V.  i.  72,  9.  Mahnn  mahadhhih  IfitMvi  pi  t,utht  mnta  putrair  Aditir  dJ»aytt$ 
!■•'•  |  "The  earth,  tho  mother,  Aditi  itood  in  power  with  her  mighty  aunt  for  tie 
i  rf  the  bird"  The  viorA  pfithiti  may,  however,  at  Profeaor  Mullet  wippaaM, 
p.  243,  be  here  an  epithet.    AT.  xiii.  1.  38 1  JWn*  jtritliirya  Adity'i  upattU,  etc. 


A8  REPRESENTED   IN  THE   RIG-VEDA. 

in  ▼.  48,  3:  Indrilanl  ifitruvaruna  Aditi  A  tvah  prithirhn  dySm  ifamlah 
panat&n  apah  \  Aw*  |  "  I  invoke  Iadru,  Agni,  Mitra,  Yaruna,  Aditi, 
Heaven,  Earth,  Sky,  cite. ;  iu  vi.  61,  5:  ZtymciA  pitak  Pfilhirt  m&tar 
adhrua  Ag%*  hhr&tar  Vaeavo  mrilata  nah  |  dice  Adityak  AdiU  wjaeha 
atmabhyaA  forma  hahuUm  tiyanta  |  "  Father  Heaven,  beiiificont 
mother  Earth,  brother  Agni,  Varus,  be  grucious  to  us ;  all  yc  Adityas, 
•i.  united,  grant  us  mighty  protection  ;"  in  ix.  37,  58 :  Tan  m  Mitro 
Vertigo  mAmahanUlm  Aditih  Sindhuh  Pf&htA  uta  Dyauh  |  "Muy 
Mitra,  Vonina,  AdiU,  Ocean,  Earth,  and  Heaven  gladden  ua ;"  in  x.  36, 
Ifyatti  cha  nah  Prithirl  eha  prachelaii  fiUtvarl  raktkatSm  a&tmn 
ruhah  |  .  .  .  .  3.  Vitt*tm&*  HO  Aditik  pal*  amkaeu  mStd  mitraiya 
Varunatya  reraiah  |  2.  "  Heaven  and  Earth,  the  Trite  »nd  holy, 
protect  us,"  etc ;  ....  3:  "  May  Aditi,  tho  mother  of  Mitra  and  tho 
opulent  Varuuo,  preserve  ns  from  every  calamity."  See  also  x.  9'2,  11. 
I'erhaps  tho  most  distinct  text  of  all,  however,  is  x.  63,  10:  Sutra- 
mamam  Prithirlm  Dydm  anehatam  tuiarmAnam  AditiA  lupranlfint  | 
daiil*  n&rdm  nitn'tnim  andgatam  atrmaxtlm  d  ruhema  ttattay*  | 
10:  "(We  invoke)  tho  excellent  protectress  tlie  Eartli,  the  fuultless 
Heaven,  the  sheltering  and  guiding  Aditi:  lot  us  ascend  for  our  -nv  11- 
bcing  the  divine  hark,  well  rowed,  free  from  imperfection,  which  never 
leaks.""  Vtij.  8.  xviii.  22  :  ■  Muy  Earth,  and  Aditi,  and  Diti,  aad 
Heaven,  etc.,  etc.,  satisfy  mc  through  my  sacrifice,"  etc.  {. .  .  .  prithirl 
tha  m*  Adilii  cha  me  Ditii  cha  me  Dyaui  eka  me  .  .  .  yajntna  kaJpanldm). 

In  A.V.  vi.  120,  2  :  the  Earth  seems  to  be  distinguished  from  Aditi: 
Bhttmir  miltd  Aditir  no  janitram  hhrdttl  'ntarikuham  ityiidi  [  "Tho 
Earth  our  Mother,  Aditi  the  place  of  our  production,  tho  air  our 
brother,  etc 

In  the  Sktapatha  Rrahmana,  indeed,  it  is  said  (ii.  2,  1,  19) :  "  Aditi 
is  this  earth ;  she  is  this  supporter,"  (iyan  em  Prithirl  Aditih  »<]  iyam 
pratitkfhd,,  etc.;  and  in  another  passage  (v.  3,  I,  4):  "Aditi  is  this 
earth ;  sho  is  the  wife  of  the  gods,"  [iyam  tai  Prithiti  Aditih  jd  iyam 
ebvdndm  palnl).  (See  also  viii.  2,  1,  10;  xi.  !,  3,  3).  But  these 
identifications  of  tho  Hruhmanaa  arc  very  arbitrary  and  frequently 
fanciful. 

1  bar*  already  mentioned  that  Aditi  is  placed  by  YiLska  at  the  heed 
"  Toi»  vens  occur*  slao  in  the  Vij.  8.  xxi.  S ;  sad  Alh.  V.  vii.  6,  X.    Sm  Mullsr, 

b,  m, 


42 


1 II K  <;0I>8    GENERALLY, 


of  the  goddesses  of  the  intermediate  region.  If,  howerer,  the  mom 
ancient  writer  has  done  rightly  in  piecing  the  Adityaa  among  the 
deities  of  the  celestial  sphere  (Nir.  xii.  35),  Aditi  their  mother  ought 
surely  to  have  found  her  place  in  the  seme  class,  as  it  is  scarcely  con- 
ceivable that  tho  composers  of  tho  hymns  should  have  thought  of  th 
separating  tho  parent  from  her  offspring.  But  Yaaka  is  here  merely 
following  the  order  of  the  list  of  words  (for  it  can  hardly  be  colled 
claseificfttion)  which  he  found  is  the  fifth  chapter  of  the  Nigbaotn ; 
and  in  following  this  H*t  (to  which  he  no  doubt  attached  a  certain 
authority)  ho  has  bad  to  specify  Varans,  who  is  twieo  named  in  it,  not 
only  among  the  celestial  gods  (xii.  21),  among  whom  as  an  Aditya  he 
was  pnijwrly  ranked,  but  also  among  the  gods  of  tho  intermediate 
region™  (x.  3). 

(6)  Aditi  and  Dili. 

In  the  following  verse  Aditi  is  named  along  with  another  goddees 
i  -onifkalion,  Dili,  who,  from  tho  formation  of  her  name,  appears 
to  be  intended  as  nn  antithesis,  or  as  a  complement,  to  Aditi  (v.  62,  ft. 
J/n linear i) pom  luhmn  rytatifdc  ayai-tlhumim  udild  tiryntya  |  drohatho 
raruqa  Jhtra  garlic  at«s  cUkddfo  Aditi*  DM*  cha  |  "Ye,  Mitra 
ui  nl  Viu-una,  nsoend  your  car,  of  golden  form  at  the  break  of  dawn, 
(your  car)  with  iron  supports  at  the  setting™  of  the  sun,  and  thence  ye 
behold  Aditi  and  Diti." "°  Sdyana  here  understands  Aditi  of  the  earth 
as  an  a  hole,  and  Diti  as  representing  the  separate  creatures 

on    its  surface   (Aditia%  ttifutrnd-mitfam  Muni*  Diti*  khanditHm  ff- 


: 
s 


I 


n  Rota,  ia  his  remarks  on  Nir.  x.  4,  offers  the  following  explanation  of  ttiis  cir- 
cumstance :  "  Vanina  who,  of  all  the  gods,  oogfct  to  haw  been  assigns*:  to  las 
highest  sphere,  appears  hew  in  the  atUlillo  rusk,  bseaajss  among  an  ersativt  and 
regulative  fmixbuM,  the  direction  of  tho  waturs  ia  the  be*  was  is  OB*. 

w  I  hcra  follow  Roth,  wbo,  ia  the  Joara.  0«rns.  Or.  Socioty,  >i  71,  sad  in  Vis 
Lexicon,  readers  the  word  mdiii  tiryuyt  here  by  "setting  of  the  sua."  Strata  goat 
Us  Ucgth  of  «plsinio|r  this  phrase  by  oparoiaa  "afternoon."  in  hit  note  oa  r.  ;&, 
3,  though  not  ia  the  passage  before  as. 

M  Ihusa  two  words,  sditt  and  oWi,  eeenr  also  la  a  passage  of  the  Vajasaneyi  Saa- 
hit-  (x.  16),  wtieh  is  partly  the  sane  as  the  present.  Tbs  ooo^wdug  ek«M  (Uui 
riahlatim  mtitim  ditim  eit)  is  tans  explained  by  the  commcaUtor  there  as  sigoify- 
lag  in  the  aUssaira  sense  :  " Theaee  behold  [o  Varans  and  Mitra]  the  man  who  is 
not  poor  («*■/■' =«<*«•),  it.  who  nbarrres  the  pmcribsd  ordiosnees  (iihtti*ui*i*a- 
IAr*tH),n&  him  wbo  is  poor  (jMsJaaAsfy  «ho  foilaws  the  praetkea  of  the  aUieuts 
(HiUiim-rptImm):' 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG. VEDA.  43 

j&dihdm).  In  his  c*»y  on  "The  Highest  Gods  of  the  Arian  Room" 
(Jooro.  Germ.  Or.  Society,  vi.  71),  Professor  Roth  translates  these 
two  words  by  "the  eternal,"  and  "the  perishable."  In  his  Lexi- 
con, however,  the  Mine  author  (».r.)  describes  Diti  "u  •  goddess 
associated  with  Aditi,  without  any  distinct  conception,  and  merely,  as 
il  appears,  at  a  contrast  to  her."  Aditi  may,  however,  here  represent 
the  sky,  and  Diti  the  earth ;  or,  if  we  are  right  in  understanding  the 
verse  before  us  to  describe  two  distinct  appearances  of  Mitrn  and 
Varuiju,  one  at  the  rising  and  the  other  at  tho  sotting  of  the  sun, 
Aditi  might  possibly  stand  for  the  whole  of  nature  as  seen  by  day,  and 
Diti  for  tho  creation  as  seen  by  night.  At  all  events  the  two  together 
appear  to  bo  put  by  the  poet  for  tho  entire  uggrcgufcoof  visiblo  nature." 
Diti  occurs  again  us  a  goddess,  but  without  Aditi,  in  another  place  (vii. 
15,  12,  Team  Agnt  vlrtKui  yi*#d  d*roi  chtt  ijacitu  lihaywh  \  J)dii  ch« 
iryam  |  "  You,  Agni,  and  the  divim  S.ivitri  and  Bhaga,  (bestow) 
renown  with  descendants;  and  Diti  confers  what  is  desirable."  Snynnu 
her*  explains  Diti  as  meaning  a  particular  goddess  (Ditir  spi  tit?}}. 
Both  (f.r.)  considers  her  to  be  a  personification  of  liberality  or  gpaleaOaV 
Professor  iliiller,  Trans,  i.  244,  eonaiders  that  the  original  reading  in  this 
passage  was  Aditi,  and  that  Diti  has  been  substituted  by  later  reciters. 
Diti  is  also  named  along  with  Aditi  as  a  goddess,  A. V.  xv.  6,  7,  and 
xv.  18,  4  ;  Vaj.  8.  xviii.  22;  and  in  A.V.  vii.  7.  1,  her  sons  are  men- 
tioned. These  sons,  the  Daityas,  as  is  well  known,  were  regarded  in 
later  Indian  mythology  as  the  enemies  of  the  gods. 

(7)  Aditi  may  be  a  ptrtonification  of  Uniterm}  Nature. 

Perhaps  Aditi  may  best  bo  regarded  as  a  personification  of  uni- 
versal, all-cmbraeing  Nature,  or  Being,  with  which  she  is  in  fact 
identified  in  tho  following  remarkable  verse.  She  is  tho  source  and 
substance  of  all  things  celestial  and  intermediate,  divino  and  human, 
present  and  future  (L89,  10) :  "  Aditi  is  the  sky ;  Aditi  is  the  air 
(or  intermediate  firmament) ;  Aditi  is  the  mother,  and  father,  and  son ; 
Aditi  is  all  the  gods,  and  the  fire  tribes  ; "  Aditi  is  whatever  has  been 

•*  Tbt  wank  mJUi  «r*l  Jit*  occur  toytlber  in  another  pMMgv,  ir.  2,  1 1  [Jtlim  <4a 
rnmm  udiiim  •rwAyc),  where  JUrarja  ukis  Jiti  for  "  die  liberal  mao,"  and  —lilt  for 
1  Usmlatea  "  grant  tu  a  liberal  ginr,  aatl  preserve  u*  from  U10 
OUbwml."  whiJ»  Roth   render*  th»m  by  •'  wealth"  anil  "penury"  refptcUrelj. 

*  la  aastaer  pl*«,  iL  61,  11,  Aditi  ■  tnvsksd,  along  with  ladta,  to*  earth,  ths 


44 


THE   INDIAN   GODS   GENERALLY, 


our, 


born;  Aditi  is  whatever  shall  be  born"*'  (Aditir  dyaur  Aiitir  antartk- 
tham  Aditir  mutd  ta  pita  ta  putrah  \  rise*  aVraA  Aditik  panchajandk 
Aditir  j'dtam  Aditir  janitvam  \). 

fciiyuijii  states  Unit  here  Aditi  is  either  Uio  curth,  or  tho  mother  of 
tho  gods,  and  that  sho  is  hiudcd  under  tho  character  of  universal 
nature**  (Aditir  udinu  akhandaniyu  id  prilkicl  devamalu  ru  |  .  .  .  tram 
takalajayad-dlmand  Aditik  ttiyaU).  Yuakn  suya  (Nir.  iv.  22  f.),  that 
Aditi  meant  "not  poor,  tho  mother  of  tho  gods  "  (Aditir  adinu  dtta- 
m&Ui),  and  that  tho  variety  of  hor  manifestations  is  sot  forth  in  this 
vend,  or  that  tho  objects  which  are  there  characterized  as  aditi  an 
adiua,  the  reverse  of  dfna,  "poor"  (ity  Adit&r  tibhatim  aekathft  J 
ttiutty  ad'muni  ru).  This  text  occurs  at  the  end  of  a  hymn  addressed 
to  all  the  gods,  ami  does  not  appear  to  have  an}  Ion  with   the 

verses  which  precede,  from  which  it  derives  no  elucidation.'"* 

Compare  with  it  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  12,  3,  1,  where  it  is  similarly 
"  that  the:  sclf-csiatent  Brahma,  who  is  the  highest  austere-fervour, 
is  son,   father,  and  mother  (Svayamhlm  Brahma  paramark  Uipo  yat  \ 
ta  na  putrah  ta  pita  ta  mQtS). 

With  tbio  may  bo  compared  ^Eschylus,  Fragment  443 : 

Z«ii«  «Vru>  u'9hp,  ZiiiJi  yn,  Ziiii  8'  oupav6f 
Ztis  rot  tA  wdVre  x*  Tl  rir  J"  trtiptipov. 

ground  (AsAoine),  Puihsn,  Bungs,  and  the  fin  tribe*  (jmichajanah),  to  batow  klea»- 
JDg»,  Are  the  "five  tribes"  to  bo  understood  here,  with  some  old  commentators 
(sac  Nir.  iii.  B)  of  the  Oiindharvus,  Pitris,  Devns,  Asures,  and  Kuluhaia*;  or  with 
the  Aitarey*  Bruhi»«e»  quoted  by  Siwea  oa  i.  89,  10,  of  gods,  n>*o,  C>ndhara», 
Apsamcs,  serpenU,  and  Pitrin  (the  Uandborvas  and  ApsaraK*  being  taken  as  sot 
clus)  ?  Prrhupa  we  should  rather  understand  the  term,  u  in  X>  63,  4,  6  (iwneA*- 
>•»>*  msout  Aotmm/utAaMtvm,  "ye  Ave  tribes,  welcome  ray  offering "),  a*  denoting 
tho  whole  pantheon,  or  a  particular  portion  of  it.  In  K.V.  i.  oj.  3,  f*nc\m  iml| 
tho  fire  god*,  or  elastss  of  gods,  sro  mentioned,  and  in  x.  GO,  4,  "  the  fivo  tribe*  in 
Uiu  «ky  "  (Jieira  pnailui  ipiAfnyuA).     Seo  tko  lit  vol.  of  thU  work,  p.  177. 

•*  In  a  note  on  tbii  verse  (Orient  und  Occident,  ii.  p.  253)  Professor  Beafej  remarks 
••The  conception  of  this  goddess  is  still  dnrk." 

■  M.  Ad.  Hegnicr.  Klude  »ur  l'idiome  da  Vedu.  p.  28.  remarks :   Aditi  is  the 
asm*  of  a  divinity,  a  pnnioni Oration  of  tit  AH,  the  mother  of  the  g"d«." 

•  There  U  a  hymn  (x.  100)— addreated  to  different  gods,  and  where  they  are 
invoiced  in  sucemrinn — in  which  the  word*  a  aarvateftM  aditiik  rrinlma/u  form 
conclusion  of  all  the  rente  except  tho  lust.  The  precise  meming  of  these  words  vu 
not  very  clear  te  me,  especially  as  they  have  no  necessary  connection  with  the  a re- 
ceding portions  of  the  different  stanza*  in  which  they  occur.  But  I'rufeaor  Aufraoot 
suggests  thst  tho  verb  trtgimab  governs  a  double  accusative,  and  that  the  werdt 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN   TIIE    RICVEDA. 


46 


"  Zeus  is  the  -Ether,  Zeus  is  the  Earth,  Zeus  is  the  Heaven.  Zeus  ia 
all  thing*,  and  whatever  ia  above  them.*'  Sec  Midler,  Lectures  ou 
Language,  ii.  411. 

The  signification,  "earth "  or  "nature,"  may  be  that  in  which  the 
word  Aditi  is  employed  ia  It.V.  i.  24,  1  :  Eatya  niknaih  katamtitya 
ampiYciaJm  manamahe  chfiru  dnwja  n&ma  |  ho  no  mahyai  Adilaye jmnar 
dut  pttaraih  (ha  dfiittfam  m&taram  eha  \  2.  Agntr  vayam  prathammy 
cmritunilirt  mandmah*  charw  in«4ya  noma  \  t«  no  maht/ai  Ad\laye pwtar 
d'tl  pitaraih  eha  rfri&y«m  m<4aroi>i  (ha  \  "  of  which  god,  now,  of  which 
all  the  immortals,  shall  wo  invoke  the  amiable  name?  who  shall  give 
as  beck  to  the  great  Aditi,  that  I  may  behold  my  father  and  my 
mother?  2.  Let  ua  invoke  the  amiable  name  of  the  divine  Agni,  the 
first  of  the  immortals ;  he  shall  give  ua  back  to  the  great  Aditi,  that  I 
may  behold  my  father  and  my  mother."  These  words  are  declared  in 
the  Aitareya  Brahmana  to  have  been  uttered  by  Suntissepa  when  he 
was  about  to  be  immolated  (see  Professor  Wilson's  Essjy  in  the  Journal 
of  the  Boyal  Asiatic  Society,  xiii.  100;  Professor  Ruth'*  paper  in 
Weber's  Indischo  Studien,  i.  46 ;  Miiller* s  Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature, 
pp.  408  ff. ;  Hnug'a  Aitareya  Brahmana,  ii.  4G0ff.,  and  the  Efast  V.,1. 
of  this  work,  pp.  3o&  ff.  In  regard  to  the  passage  immediately  before 
us,  M  tiller's  Lectures  on  Language,  ii.  500,  and  his  Translation  of  flu 
reda,  i.  243,  may  also  be  consulted).  Whether  this  account  bo  correct  or 
not,  the  words  may  be  understood  as  spoken  by  some  one  in  dinger  of 
death  from  sickness  or  otherwise,  who  prayed  to  be  permitted  again  to 
behold  tho  fsco  of  nature.  This  interpretation  is  confirmed  by  the 
epithet  mah},  "  great,"  applied  in  this  verse  to  Aditi,  which  would  not 
be  to  suitable  if,  with  Roth  («.*.),  we  should  take  the  word  here  in  the 
sense  of  "freedom"  or  umt  urity."  If  we  should  n  ndmtund  the  father 
and  mother  whom  the  suppliant  is  anxious  to  behold,  as  meaning  heaven 


**  W«  aak  .Aditi  for  umtali,"  (whoUier  that  ra»T  m<*t>).  In  *n  in- 
i  ob  R.V.  L  M,  15  (Orient  and  Occidant,  ii.  51&  ff.),  Profeaaor  iivnf.  y  regards 
the  word  m  coming  originally  from  the  sumo  root  u  the  Latin  Mil,  of  which  he 
■uppoeaa  the  pnmitirc  form  to  hare  been  tttmtat,  and  to  hare  tho  unr  sijrnificatjon. 
Tnl»  aero*  certainly  rait*  thi-  context  of  ttio  four  panagM  on  which  principally  he 
fnnaib  it,  via.,  i.  106,  2  j  iii.  64,  11 ;  li.  96,  4 ;  x.  36,  II.  In  a  note  to  hit  traiw- 
latioa  of  thi*  paper  {Ori.nt  and  Occident,  iii.  470}  hi  •  xpKiro  th«  word*  under 
coaMadcratiaa, "  wc  rcpphcatc  Aditi  far  welfare."  In  his  traatl.  of  K.V.  L  247, 
M  Oiler  aijntlaity  tenders  tbem  :  We  implore  Aditi  for  health  and  wealth." 


46 


THE    INDIA*    UODS    GENERALLY, 


and  earth  (see  above),  it  would  become  still  more  probable  that  Aditi  ii 
to  be  understood  as  meaning  "  nature,"  Sayarja  (in  loco)  understand* 
the  word  of  the  Earth  (prithiiyai). 


(B)  Aditi  at  a  forgiter  of  ha. 


„ 


Benfey  in  his  translation  of  the  hymn  just  referred  to  i.  24  (Orient 
und  Occident,  i.  33),  treats  Aditi  as  a  proper  name,  and  expluins  it  as 
denoting  "sinlceaness."  Whatever  may  bo  thought  of  this  interpreta- 
tion, the  goddess  Aditi  is  undoubtedly  in  many  other  texts  connected 
with  the  ideu  of  deliverance  from  ain.  Thus  ut  the  end  of  this  same 
hymn  (i.  2-1,  15),  it  is  said :  Uti  ultamam  Varuma  p&iam  wtnuxd  *e* 
adhamam  vi  madhyamam  irathaya  |  at)w  eayam  Aditya  rrai*"  tat* 
*nuga»ah  Aditayc  tyAna  |  "  Varuna,  loose  from  us  the  uppermost 
the  utiddii •,  tad  the  lowest  bond.  Then  may  wc,  o  Aditya,  by  thy 
ordination,  ho  without  sin  against  Aditi."  " 

The  same  reference  is  also  found  in  the  following  texts : 

L  162,  22.  "May  Aditi  make  us  sinless"   ianAgcuttam  no  Adi> 
kfinotu). 

ii.  27,  14.  "Aditi,  Mitra,  and  Varuna,  bo  gracious  if  we  have  com- 
mitted any  sin  against  you  "  ( Aditt  Mitra  Varv&mta  tnjila  yad  ro  tayam 
ckairima  locJi  chid  Cgah). 

iv.  12,  4.  "  Whatever  offence  we  have,  through  our  folly,  committed 
against  thee,  after  the  manner  of  men,  o  most  youthful  god,  make  us 
free  from  sin  against  Aditi ;  loosen  our  sins  altogether  away,  o  Agni  " 

••  On  the  different  mm  of  the  word  trata  eco  Holier,  Trans,  of  B.V.  L  224  W. 
Urn  he  rradira  u  under  thy  auspicea,"  p.  228. 

*  The  abstract  noun  adilitia  occur*  slung  with  anitghttw.  " rinlcwrests,'"  io  tbe 
following  line  (vii.  61,  1)  :  anagaitrt  adilitiv  lurrria  imam  yajnam  dailAalu  /rojaU- 
w  ..i  .A,  " May  tho  mighty  godt,  lintcning  to  w,  prwrvo  tbu  ceremony  in  rinletrasss, 
and  prwiperity."  Though  aditiim  is  joined  with  itmryiitfaa,  it  dun  not  follow  thai 
it  mutt  have  tho  same  acnic. — Id  the  S'atnpatba  Brahmaga  x.  9,  6,  6  («  Brihad 
Arnnynka  ITpaniahad,  p.  63  IT.,)  the  name  of  Aditi  u  explained  from  the  mot  **\  to 
eat :  "  Whatever  he  created,  he  began  to  eat :  far  Aditi  derives  her  (or  hi*)  uxaw 
from  thu,  that  die  (or  ho)  eat*  every  tli  ing  "  (yad  pad  rta  atfyala  lad  itltum  mdhri. 
yiila  |  irtrt'it'u  rot  ulli  iti  tad  AdiUr  atVtitftm).  Aditi  it  an  epithet  of  Agni  ia  K.V. 
iv.  I,  20 ;  vii.  9,  3 ;  and  of  Aryamao  in  ia.  81,  6.  YuAa  t.  1U  us  that  Agni  also  t» 
called  Aditi  (/few  apy  aditir  luthyatt,  Kir,  ».  23),  and  quotes  in  proof  of  I 
16th  verae  of  a  hymn  to  Agni,  B.V.  i.  9t.  In  rlL  fa,  1.  the  worshippen  ask  that 
they  m«y  be  oditoyah,  which  Sftyau*  render*  by  aiJtantfamyilt,  "  invincible." 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    TITB    HIO-VEDA.  47 

(Yatk  ehid  ki  U  puruthatra  yatri*k{ha  achitlibhik  chakrima  kaeh  ekid 
Rgak  |  kridki  «t(  atmiin  Aiiter  anHgan  vi  tnamsi  iiiratho  rMvag  Agnt). 

v.  82,  6.  "  May  we  bo  free  from  sin  against  Aditi  through  the  help 
of  the  divine  Savitri"  (jmAjutah.  Adilay*  d*va*y<i  Saeituk  taet). 

tu-  87,  7.  "  May  wc,  fulfilling  the  ordinances  of  Aditi,  he  without 
■in  towards  Varuna,  who  is  gracious  even  to  him  who  has  committal 
■in  "  (yi>  mrilttytlti  chalrtuhe  chid  Ago  vaya/h  tySma  Vanmi  an&g&k  | 
ohm  cratdni  Aditir  ridkantah). 

vii.  93,  7.  "  Whatever  sin  wc  have  committed,  be  thou  (Agoi)  com- 
passionate :  may  Aryaman  and  Aditi  sever  it  from  us  "  (gat  tin  dgai 
ciairima  tat  n*  mrih  fad  Arya»w  Aditih  Mratkantu). 

x.  12,  8.  "  May  Mitra  her*,  may  Aditi,  mny  the  divine  Savitri  de- 
clare us  sinless  to  Varnrja"  (Mitro  no  atra  Aditir  anHgiin  Saritd  dn* 
Vantn&ya  voehat). 

A  consideration  of  these  passages,  win- re  Aditi  is  supplicated  for  for- 
giveness of  sin,  might  lead  us  to  suppose  that  she  was  regarded  a*  the 
great  power  which  wields  the  forces  of  the  universe,  and  controls  the 
deatiniw  of  men  by  moral  laws;  and  the  idea  derives  some  support 
from  her  connection  with  Varurja,  whoso  bonds  are  so  often  referred  to 
as  afflicting  sinners.**  But  this  supposition  is  weakened  by  the  fact  that 
many  others  of  the  gods  are  in  the  same  way  petitioned  for  pardon,  as 
Savitri  (iv.  54,  3)  and  other  deities,  as  the  Suo,  Dawn,  Ucarra  and 
Earth  (x.  35,  2,  Si,  Agni  05.  54,  19). 

(9)  Aditi1 1  petitim  tometimt  tubordinaU. 

Though,  as  wc  have  seen,  Aditi  is  regarded  as  the  mother  of  some  of 
the  principal  Vcdic  deities,  she  is  yet,  in  other  texts,  represented  as 
playing  a  subordinate  part. 

Thus,  in  vii.  38,  4,  she  is  mentioned  as  celebrating  the  praises  of 
Savitri,  along  with  h(  r  sons  Varnrja,  Mitra,  and  Aryaman,  und  wel- 
coming his  aid  (aiki  yam  d*rl  Aditir  jr*i&t*  *«ww  dtnuya  8 
jutkAnA  |  abhi  utArdjo  Vmruno  grinmli  tiki  Jftfrdso  ArytmA  tajothik) ; 
and  in  viii.  12,  14,  she  is  declared  to  have  produced  a  hymn  to  Indra 
tUm  trard/*  Adttih  ttwwm  Imirdya  jljanat  |  pwupratattam  ulays  rita- 
ijr-fsf). 

■  Bo.  on  U>»  subject  JUIWi  trmtd.  of  Ibc  R.V.  i.  244  f. 


TEE   JSDUS   GODS   GENERALLY, 


(10)  Creation  as  dettribai  •*»  Mg-vtda  x.  72;  birth  of  Aditi, 
the  gods,  and  the  Adilyae. 


Haiti*, 


which 

Wmk 

\*  let- 


in  a  hymn  of  the  tenth  book  (the  72nd),  supposed  from  its  contents 
to  be  of  a  comparatively  late  date,  the  process  of  creation  is  described 
at  greater  length  than  in  any  earlier  passage,  and  the  share  which 
Aditi  took  in  it  is  not  very  intelligibly  set  forth  : " 

x.  72,  1.  Devundth  nit  tayaSt  j'uml  pra  lorhAma  vipanyayd  |  ukt 
iatyamliuthu  yah  pa.iyud  ultara  yitge  |   2.  Brahimnaspatir  ttd  earn 
tnartth  ivuihamat  |  devAiiani  purvyt  yvgn  asatah  tad  ojuyata    |    3.  Deri' 
nam  yugt  prathame  aaalah  tad  ajAyata  \  t-ad  -fAy/mta  tad  Ultd- 

tuipada*  pari  \  4.  Jtkilrjajnt  UtlAnapado  bhmah  AiSh  ajAyaala  \  Aditer 
JDaktha  ajAyala  DahhAd  w  Adilih  pari  |  5.  Adilir  hi  ajanith{a  Dahh* 
i/A  duhif.ii  lata  \  turn  dtrnh  ane  ajAyanta  bluidrAh  amrHebatuihetah  \  6. 
Yad  dnAh  adah  tali  If  mttamrabdhAh  alishfhula  \  altra  re  nrityatAm  itt 
tivre  rtnur  apAyata  |  7.  Yad  dev&h  yatayo  yatha  bhucanuni  api*rata  \ 
attra  tamudre  3  galham  a  tilryam  ajabharttanp  |  8.  A*h[*u  put r Am 
Aditrr  ye  jAUlt  tanva*  pari  |  dcedn  upa  pra  ait  taptabkih  para  mart- 
t&gdam  Atyai  \  9.  Saptabhih  putrair  Adilih  upa  prait  pQrvjfatk  yuym  | 
profdyai  mrityave  tvat  punar  marttundam  dbharal  \ 

"  1.  Let  us,  in  chauutcd  hymns,  wit.li  praise,  declare  the  birtha  of 
tlio  gods, — any  of  us  who  in  (tlii*)  latter  ago  may  behold  them.  2. 
Brahmnnaspati  blew  forth  these  births  like  a  blacksmith."  In  the 
earliest  ago  of  the  gods,  the  existent  sprang  from  the  non-existent. 

3.  In  the  first  ago  of  the  gods,  the  existent  sprang  from  the  non- 
existent:   thereafter  the  regions  sprang,  thereafter,  from  UUiinapad. 

4.  The  earth  sprang  from  UtUiiuipnd,  from  the  earth  sprang  the 
regions :  Dakshu  sprang  from  Aditi,  and  Aditi  from  Daksha.  5.  For 
Aditi  was  produced,  she  who  is  thy  daughter,  o  Daksha.     After  her 

N  I  bare  already  gi«en  this  translation  in  vol.  W.  of  this  work,  pp.  10,  11,  bat 
repeat  it  here,  with  some  variation*,  for  the  sake  of  corupleteaess.  Prof.  Mullet-  fa 
hi*  tiaoil.  of  the  B.V.  pp.  234  f.  giv«  o  version  of  tho  first  four  rents.  In  the  tine 
vera*,  Moond  lino,  ht  proposes  to  read  yat  for  yalf  and  to  translate  "tost  a  nun  may 
see  ihcm,"  etc.  In  tho  third  verse  be  takes  Uttonaptdas,  where  it  first  occurs,  for  a 
ni'tninativc,  and  in  the  fourth  vnrw  for  a  genitrK.  Whichever  way  we  take  the 
words,  there  is  a  doable  production  of  the  regions;  Bret,  sltbet  (»)  from  UMnnspad, 
or  (b)  aJU-r  the  non -existent,  but  before  Uttunepod.  to  which  thoy  gave  bit 
Mcond,  from  the  earth,  which  itntf  <pranc;  from  UliuiiapoiL 

»  Compare  B.V.  if.  2, 17 ;  sad  x.  81,  X 


AS    REPRESENTED    IX    THE    RIG-VKDA. 


49 


the  Rods  were  born,  happy,  partakers  of  immortality.  8.  'When,  gods, 
jo  moT«l,  agitated,  upon  those  water*,  then  a  violent  dust"  issued 
from  yon,  bi  from  dancers.  7.  When,  gods,  yn,  like  strenuous  men," 
replenished  the  world*,  then  ye  drew  forth  tho  sua  which  was  hidden 
in  the  (aerial?)  ocean.  8.  Of  the  eight  sons"  of  Aditi  who  were 
born  from  her  body,  she  approached  the  gods  with  seven,  and  cast  out 
Vartuluda  (tho  eighth).  9.  With  seven  sons  Aditi  approached  tho 
former  generation  (of  gods) :  she  agnin  produced  Mirttiindii  for  birth  as 
well  as  for  death.*4 


*■  Compare  R.V.  IT.  42.  S.  .  .  .  Indrah  iyarmi  rrniim  alMhtelyojnf. 
M  YaUjtA — This  went  ii  taken  hy  Bohtlingk  and  Rath  i.r.  a*  the  name  of  at 
aocirot  faaily  connected  with  the  Bhrigus,  R.V.  >tii.  3.  9  -,  riii.  (,  18,  to  whom  toino 
eonBsctioa  with  tho  formation  of  tho  world  it  ascribed  in  x.  72,  7  (tho  verso  before  ui). 
The  word  alio  occurs  in  It-V.  rii  13,  1,  where  it  ti  applied  to  Aged  ( Fm'/raim  • 
yfy*  smUsuim).  Th*  iccond  of  the  verse*  quoted  bj  13.  snd  R.  (vm.  6,  1H)  it  u 
follow*:  ft  InJra  ylayat  trS  Bhn9»ro  ye  elm  liuh(itriiS  |  mama  id  u/ra  irndAi 
iUm*  J  "  Indr*,  the  Ystis,  and  th*  Bh;igut,  who  praised  th*«  : — hoar,  o  fiery  god,  mjr 
invocation."  Hers  a  family  of  men  may  be  meant,  aa  alio  Efl  vm  ',  P  (y*na  yalibhgo 
Bkrifor*  dXtm  hUt).  In  on*  of  the  few  rones  of  the  Sima-veila  which  are  not  found 
in  the  R.V  .liz.ii  304.  (hut  which  is  not  referred  to  in  B.  nnd  li.'s  l^xioon,  although 
the  parallel  passage  in  the  A.V.  ii.  5,  3,  which  ha*  some  ditterent.  rc.idings,  ii  cited) 
the  word*  Yati  and  Bhrigu  both  occmr:  Indrat  farisvhlsj  1/ifra  tin  jnyhnmit  \'fillrnm 
FWnt  im  I  biUuJa  BtUm  Bhfi^ur  nn  tataA*  i'ltrun  mtt.it  m«ya  |  "  The  impetuous 
Iadra  Jew  VriUra  a*  (did)  Mitra,  us  (did)  the  Yari;  ho  pierced  Quia  <u  (did)  llli. 
he  ovrrcaniB  hia  cnemiea  in  the  ci  hits  ration  of  the  a  •ma-juioe."  The  parallel  nnsiag*) 
of  lac  A.V.  (in  Roth  sud  Whitney's cd.)  read*  y*Or  m,  thonccutattic  feminine,  instead 
of  yaftr  mi,  the  num.  muse.  The  Leiicon  aim  refers  to  th*  Ait.  Br.  vii.  28  (quoted 
in  the  1st  *ol.  of  this  work  (2nd  ed.)  pp.  437  f.),  where  Imlra  is  said  to  hare 
ahandoeed  tho  Yatis  to  wolves ;  and  to  other  postage*  in  which  the  tame  legend  in 
noticed. 

•*  Compare  A.V.  viii.  9,  21  :  asAfrf  Jiont  Ad$tir  a4&(«-pntro  |  In  the  Taitt.  Arsn- 
yaka  i.  13.  1,  the  Earth  is  said  to  have  had  eight  births,  eight  sous,  nnd  eight  bias* 
fends  (lAfmyomlm  ai*f*j>K»nT»i  *i/i{<rpa<uim  muse  ssoATm). 

M  Th*  8th  and  fith  verse*  are  quoted  in  th*  TaittirTy*  Aranyalts  i.  13.  2,  3 ; 
wlur*  th*  reading  of  th*  la«t  lino  of  verse  0,  it  as  follows :  prtJUyai  mfilymr*  tat 
SWrv  utirHiimfam  oHtsrai  |  The  corn mentator  explains  the  last  vers*  thus:  "Aditi 
approach «1  her  hatband  preparatory  to  the  promaiion  of  her  ton*,  and  with  a  view 
to  their  birth  .  and  tho  abandoned  MartUndu  that  he  might  die"  (tad-ulfAdtnartAmm 
m  pmrryam  yweess"  tad  nlpatti-purra-kotinam  jMfi-axMj^aifi  "prajiiyai"  prop*- 
fUtly-arlJuim  ••  ufxprait "  prili.purtakam  pnTpfarati  |  .  .  .  Morllanifikhyam  ojA- 
famam  putrmm  "ftvibkatet"  pantyaktavafi  ili  yal  lat  "mrtiyar*"  mfityu-mimil- 
t*m  |  Itiritinfr    *•    mfilfor   sra    Ae/wr    M   svwjaMitritAM.-Aj),   and     lis    adds    that 

•'tliittunda  mesas  ono  ia  contequsneo  of  whose  birth  the  egg  has  become  dead" 
imrittm  Bfsjws  yd'y  jammma  u  MaritirtjaUA) ;  according  to  tho  Smrili  I  nria'ad* 
pi  fit  ftjmtid  M&rttiyfak  m  arfriAfifai  |  ••  II*  is  called  M(«rttan*t  becaase  he  wss 


60 


THE    INDIAN    0OD8    GENERALLY. 


Yuftka  has  the  fallowing  remarks  on  vf.no  4  of  this  hymn  in  the 
Niruktu,  xi.  ^3: 

Adifyo  Dalukak  ity  akur  Aiitya-madhyt  eka  ituiak  \  Adilir  Daluki* 
yanJ  "  Adtttr  fiaksho  ajuyata  Dak»had  *  Aditik  pari"  iti  eha  \  tat 
katJtaM  upapadyeta  |  tamuna-janmiiiHW  lyiltam  iti  |  apt  t'u  deta-dkar- 
rntna  itarttara-jaNmdnau  tydtdm  UaretarU'prakrttl  \ 

"  Dakaha  is,  they  say,  an  Aditya  (or  son  of  Aditi),  and  is  praiaed 
among  the  Adilyus.  And  Aditi  is,  on  the  other  hand,  the  daughter  of 
Daksha  (according  to  this  U-xl),  '  Dukshu  sprang  from  Aditi,  and  Aditi 
from  Daksha.'  How  can  this  he  possible?  They  may  have  Lad  the 
sumo  origin ;  or,  according  to  the  nature  of  the  god*,  they  may  hare 
been  born  from  each  other,  und  liuvo  derived  their  substance  from  each 
other.-."4 

Another  instance  of  the  same  reciprocal  generation  is  found  in  ILV. 
x.  90,  fi  :   Ttumud  Firdd  ajayata  FirOjo  adhi  Purtukak  |  "Prom 
(Purusha)  sprang  Vtraj  ;  and  from  Virnj  (sprang)  Furuaha." 


born  when  the  egg  wns  dead."  See  alio  the  MOth  lino  of  lh«  HariTama*  quoted  ia 
«th  vol.  ut  thin  work.  p.  11,  note.  The  S'utapalba  Br.ihiuao*.  iii.  1,  3,  3  (al: 
quoted  in  itao  4th  vol.  of  thi*  work,  p.  12),  baa  the  following  explanation  of  the  8th 
nm  -  Athfau  An  Mi  ptttrah  AdiUA  \  yimt  tt  Had  dtvak  Adttyik  ity  aclult\*it 
Kipla  ha  tra  U  |  avikritam  Aa  athtammn  janayunehakara  Murl/nnjdm  |  tmmUfkt  ka 
tea  ata  yZvon  *r»  iirdhva*  tiv'mu  tiryan  purmha-wmmitah  ily  u  k.i  tkt  uAuA  |  4.  TV 
N  Ad  ttt  Mar  drriih  Adit'j'.h  "  ynti  tuuuin  anu  ajaniim  tad  amuya  urn  tW  A*mU 
imam  rikaramma"  iti  tain  riehaktur  yatka  ayam  purtulio  wikritak)  |  tstya  y'mi 
miimumi  siiukfttya  wtinyiiMU  fa/a  hmO  wmnMaiat  \  .  .  .  Tarn  u  ka  tad  ii'fAaAVu  M 
Tivatvon  Aditya*  tanya  i'maA  prajhh  I  "Aditi  had  eight  sons.  But  there  weraeoly 
tcrcn  (of  them)  whom  men  call  IPC  Uli\.i  dettJta.  Fur  IB*  bore  the  eighth.  Hitt- 
Mod*,  undertloptd  iuto  unj  distinction*  of *hapc  [without  hands,  fed,  etc.— Con*.), 
and  quite  smooth  and  uniform,  an  broad  as  he  iu  long,  or  of  tho  size  of  a  man, 
according  to  wine.  The  Aditya  god*  said  '  If  in  hi*  nature  he  docs  not  readable  at, 
it  will  be  fatal ;  (OM  let  ui  shape  lnnL*  They  did  so  at  this  roan  it  shapad.  Thi 
flesh  which  they  cut  on*  him,  anil  threw  my,  Ixcamu  or.  elephant.  .  .  .  H«  whom 
they  to  shaped  wot  the  Aditya  Vivj.tnt.  of  whom  come  those  creature*."  Tfaa  patataa 
of  the  Taitt.  Sanh.  vi.  5,  8,  1,  quoted  in  the  1st  rol.  of  this  work  p.  S*,  also  aUasiat 
to  Aditi- s  second  parturition  baring  ruaulled  iu  ail  thorliva  egg  (tyr'ddkam  Sfjsm), 

•*  Iu  Lis  Illostrations  of  the  Nituktn  (p.  161)  Piofaam  Roth  thus  trans1itcstb«4tk 
and  5th  Tenet  of  tliu  hvmu  :  "  HliO  (tho  world)  was  born,  and  from  her  opened  wurob 
tprang  thn  Regions;  from  Ailiti  (hternity)  was  bom  LaksUa  (spiritual  power),  sod 
ma  DsJ  h  i  uajn  Adui.  5.  tt*.  Ailiti  u.»  bom,  o  Daksna,  iha  aha  i«  |k| 
daughter;  al>  OMJ  forth  the  gods,  the  bleated  posaetaurt  of  immortality."  Ue 

then  proceeds :  "  Dskthn,  (»|iiriiual  powu)  ia  the  malo  energy,  which  general**  the 
gods  in  eternity.  As  Dbil  (tho  woild,  or  Wine)  and  <puce  are  thi  principle*  of  the 
finite,  to  both  at  ibr-tc  am  the  ftfiginalan  of  ditine  life." 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RJG-VKIU, 


51 


Dnkshn  ond  Aditi  arc  connected  in  two  other  texts: 

x."S,  7.  A»ach  ch»  nth  eh*  pttranu  vyoman  Dakthotya  jannanm  AdiUt 
upcuth*  |  Agnir  nah  pratkamajiih  riUti/t  pint  Oyuni  vrnk/ib/iai  tha 
dJunuh  |  "  (A  principle)  not  existing  (actually),  but  existing  (poten- 
tially) in  the  highest  heaven,  ia  the  creative  potency  of  Daknha  and  in 
the  womb  of  Aditi, — Agni  (became)  in  a  former  ago  the  first  born  of 
oar  ritual,  and  is  both  a  vigorous  bull  and  a  cow."  M 

x.  64,  5.  Do/utAmya  r&  Adite  jmitumi  rm/i  r&jdni  JfirVd-rervad  d 
wiJimi  |  "  Thou,  o  Aditi,  dost  tend  tho  two  kings  Mitra  and  Yaruga 
titer  tho  produotion  and  by  tho  will  of  Daksha."  " 

Though  the  above  passage,  x.  72,  4,  5,  represent*  Dokaha  as  at  once 
the  father  and  tho  sou  of  Aditi,  tho  older  Vcdio. mythology,  as  we  shall 
ace  from  K.V.  ii.  '27,  1,  in  the  next  section,  describes  him  as  one  of  the 
Adityaa,  and  consequently  aa  her  son.  There  are,  however,  two  other 
passages,  vi.  £0,  2,  and  vii.  (16.  2,  in  which  the  epithet  Dukiha-pitri  in 
applied  to  the  gods,  and  a  third,  viii.  25,  5,  in  which  two  of  the 
Adityaa  are  styled  rind  daitha»ya  $\tkrat<L.  What  is  the  eignifioatioD 
of  these  epithets?    The  first  of  the  passages,  vi.  60,  2,  is  aa  follows: 

S*tyoluh«h  itirya  Dahiha-pitrin  enaj«*tv*  tvmaho  plhi  d*ta»  |  dtijm- 
•mm  y*  fitatu^aM  mlyt'th  twrvont*  yajatah  Agni-jthvfih  \  "  0  mighty 
Surya,  visit  in  sinlesenesa  the  resplendent  gods,  the  soub  of  Daksha,  [or 
possessors  of  powers],  who  have  two  births,  are  holy,  true,  celestial, 
adorable,  and  have  Agni  on  their  tongues." 

66,  2.  Ftf  JkaraynHtA  drvah  ludalika  Dck$ha-pitari  |  oturydya 
prmmmhatd  |  "  Which  two  wise  gods(t.«.  Mitra  and  Varuija),  the  mighty 
boos  of  Daksha, —  [or  possessors  of  powers], —  the  deities  have  esta- 
blished to  exercise  divine  rule." 

In  tho  Toittirlyn  Suuhitt,  i.  2,  3,  1  (p.  309  in  Bibl.  lad.),  the  sauna 
epithet  is  applied  to  tho  gods :  Y*  thtah  ma»ojiU6k  matwyujah  tudahhdh 
JtrnJoispitaras  U  n.ik  p&utv  |  "  May  thoso  deities  who  ore  mind-born, 
mind-exerting,  intelligent,  who  have  Ouksha  for  their  father,"  protect 
and  deliver  us,'*  etc. 

•»  See  I-uglo**  vvwion.  MUllw  (Trans,  of  tho  R.V.  i.  234)  renders  tho  tint  line 
sady,  sad  do«*  sot  advert  to  th«  Moond. 

n  Sat  Midler's  version  in  his  Trans,  of  tho  Jt.V.  i.  p.  23*.  In  I.U  IlluMriiiou 
of  tit  Niruku,  p.  15V,  Roth  translates  tho  lino  "  And  thou,  o  Aditi,  who  after  their  pro- 
dnctiaa  by  DckUu.  awl  by  his  cumins nd.  sanest  Ihe  twu  kings  Mitra  sad  Vsruna."  cte. 

**  Tho  eosBBMntator  explains  tha  word  DakiAa-ptUnk  <i  =  OatiL**  pt^fipuiir 
w>poJ*lo  f*i>,am  if.  "  those  of  whom  the  Prajfijmti  Daksha  is  the  generator." 


62 


THE   INDIAN    GODS   GEXEBALLY, 


i    oi 


Doubt  may  be  thrown  on  the  propriety  of  taking  Dakaha  in  the  pre- 
ceding passages  to  represent  a  person,  from  tho  fact  that  in  R.V." 
25,  5,  ULtra  and  Vurana  arc  not  only  called  tho  "strong  eons 
Dakaha  "  («u«u  Dakshatya  tukratu),  but  also  the  "grandsons  of  mighty 
strength "  {»ap6t&  iaveut  mahah).  In  his  interpretation  of  vi.  50,  2, 
Suyana  explains  Daktha-pilrln  as  Dakthah  pitamahe  y<mh&m  U  |  "  they 
of  whom  Daliska  is  tho  progenitor."  In  tho  second  psssago  v-ii.  66,  2, 
however,  ho  takes  the  sumo  compound  to  signify  tho  preservers,  or 
lords  of  strength"  (baltuya  pfilakau  tidminau  rrf).  The  epithet  "sod 
of  strength"  (whaiatpulra,  *ahaiah  iC/iii)  is  applied  to  Agni  viii.  49,  2; 
■viii.  60,  11 ;  viii.  G4,  3  ;  and  iatasah  putra  "son  of  might"  to  Indra 
in  viii.  79,  3,  and  riii.  81,  14.  In  viii.  58,  4,  Indra  is  called  the 
"eon  of  truth"  (tOnwn  tatyatya);  and  the  gods  are  called  "sons  of 
immortality"  in  ri.  52,  9  U&m>eah  nmriUuya),  and  in  z.  13,  1  (amritny* 
piitrdh).  Professor  Roth  in  his  Lexicon  assigns  to  dak»hapHar«k  the 
sense  of  "preserving,  possessing,  bestowing  powers;"  und  supports  hii 
viow  by  quoting  various  other  texts  of  the  R.V.  This  signification  is 
approved  by  Dr.  Kuhn  in  his  review  of  this  article.  Professor  Midler 
translates  the  word  by  "fathers  of  strength,"  Trans,  of  ILV.  i.  235  f. 

In  the  fiitapatha  Brahmaija,  ii.  4,  4,  2,  Dakaha  ia  identified  will 
Prajiipati,  or  the  creator."*' 

The  part  which  he  plays  in  the  later  mythology,  founded,  no  doubt, 
on  the  Vedic  texts  which  I  have  quoted,  may  be  soon  by  consulting 
Professor  Wilson's  Vishnu  Turaija,  Dr.  Hull's  edition,  vol.  i.  pp.  100, 
108  ff. :  vol.  ii.  pp.  9-26,  and  vol.  iii.  p.  230.  According  to  the  first 
account  he  is  one  of  Brahma's  mind-born  boub  (p.  100),  and  marries 
Prasuti  (p.  108),  who  bears  him  twenty-four  daughters,  nmong  whom 
Aditi  is  not  specified.  In  the  second  account,  however  (vol.  ii.  p.  26), 
Aditi  is  mentioned  as  one  of  hi*  sixty  daughters  who,  along  with  Diti, 
Dunn,  and  ten  others,  is  said  to  have  been  given  in  marriage  to 
Kaiyapa,  to  whom  she  (Aditi)  bore  the  twelve  Adityas  (p.  27.  See 
also  tho  M.  Bh.  Adi-parvs,  3135.)  According  to  the  third  account 
(vol.  iii.  p.  230),  Aditi  is  said  to  bo  tho  daughter  of  Duksba,  and  the 
mother  of  Vivoarat,  the  Sun.  In  a  passage  in  one  of  the  recensions  of 
the  R&mAysna  (Schlegcl,  i.  31,  Cole  cd.  i.  29),  in  the  MohabhArata, 

•»  Sec  tbo  <th  vol.  of  tbii  work,  p.  24.     In  tho  Kqucl  of  tho  pwajro  in  tho  S"  P. 
Br.,  ii.  4,  \,  8,  s  person  ntaiod  Djlubt.  the  son  of  PurvaU.  is  mentioned. 


AS  KEPRESEXTED   IN  THE   RIG-VEDA. 


63 


and  in  the  Bhagovata  Parana,  viii.  16,  1  ff.,  Aditi  is  described  aa  tbo 
wife  of  Kaiyapa,  and  the  mother  of  Vishnu  in  his  dwarf  incarnation. 
(See  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  1 16  ff.) 

An  older  authority,  however,  the  Vaj.  Sanhita,  gives  quite  ad iffi-rcnt 
account  of  the  relation  of  Aditi  to  Vishnu,  ob  it  (xxix.  60  =  Taitt.  8. 
vii.  5,  14,  1)  represents  her  to  bo  hia  wife  {AdiUjai  Vithnu-pnlnymi 
rAarwA."0  In  the  following  passage  of  the  Taittiriya  Sauhita  iv.  (p.  34s 
of  the  Indiu  Office  MS.)  also  she  is  similarly  described:  VUh(<imhho 
din  dJmruiiah  pritJ>iir<fa  atyeiani  jtt$at<>  Viihnit-pvM  |  vika-vyachdh 
uhaytmtl  tuihatik  tied  ho  tutu  Aditir  upa*th*  |  "  Supporter  of  the  eky, 
•oataincr  of  the  earth,  sovereign  of  this  world,  wife  of  Vishnu,  may 
the  all-embracing  and  powerful  Aditi,  filling  ua  with  vigour,  be 
auspicious  to  as  (abiding)  in  her  lap." 


m  In  A.V. riL  »*,  3,  Sinl-rill  »«m«  to  bt  etlled  Uio  wife  of  Vubuu  ( FuhgoA  p»<n7). 
Another  (Todd**  is  aid  in  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  1,  3,  6,  to  be  tbo  wife  of  the  jarac  «tk) 
IMtMmdnim  Kn*!W»«.'"'<"). 


61 


THE   INDIAN   G0D8   OENEBALLY, 


SECTION   IY. 


THE    ADITYA8. 

The  sons  of  Adit!  specified  in  R.V.  ii.  27,  1,  arc  thee*  tax:  Mitra, 
Aryuman,  Bhaga.  Varurja,  Daksha,  and  Amia  (Tm&k  girth  Aditythkyo 
ghrilamfih  sanad  riijabhyo  juhvA  juhorni  \  irinolu  Mitrv  Aryamd  Bhago 
nat  tuvij&lo  Varvno  Daktho  Amiah  |).  In  iz.  Ill,  3,  the  Adilyaa  ore 
spoken  of  os  wven  in  number,  but  their  names  ore  not  mentioned  (aVrd| 
udity&kyt  tapta  tebhik  totnAbhirahiha  n<th).m  In  x.  72,  8,  9,  as  we  hare 
already  seen,  it  is  doclared  that  Adits  had  eight  sons,  of  whom  she  only 
presented  Beven  to  the  gods,  casting  out  M:\rtlsiodft,  the  eighth,  though 
■he  is  taid  to  have  afterwards  brought  him  forward.  Here,  again,  the 
Dames  of  the  rest  are  omitted.  In  A.V.  viii.  9,  21,  also,  as  quoted  above, 
p.  88,  Aditi  is  Baid  to  have  had  eight  sons.  Surra  is,  in  a  few  places, 
spoken  of  as  on  Aditya,  vis,  in  B.Y.  i.  50, 12  (ud  agadayam  Adit  yak) ;  i 
191,  9  (ud  apapdtd  asau  iHryuk  .  .  .  Adityak);  viii.  90,  11  ;"*  and 
a*  an  Aditeya  (this  word  equally  means  '  son  of  Aditi '},  identified  with 
Agni,  he  is  said  (x.  88,  U),1M  to  have  been  placed  by  the  gods  in  the 
sky.  In  viii.  18,  3,  Savitri  is  named  along  with  Bhaga,  Varurja,  Miira, 
and  Aryaman,  four  of  the  Adityau,  after  that  class  of  deities  had  been 
celebrated  generally  in  the  preceding  verse.  Sfirya  or  Saritri  there- 
tore  appears  to  hare  a  certain  claim  to  be  considered  the  seventh 
Aditya  (compare  A.V.  xiii.  2,  9,  and  37,  whero  the  sun  is  called  the 
•on  of  Aditi,  Aditeh  putrak  and  Adityak  putram).  We  hare  seen  aboi 
(pp.  13  f,  note  19)  that  Indra  also  is  in  one  passage  (R.V.  vii.  85,  4), 

101  See  tbe  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  101  ft*.,  when:  tbeae  and  many  other  passages 
relating  to  tbe  Adityu  am  quoted. 

,M  The  but-mentioned  text  is  at  follow* :  Ban  nahan  an  Surya  lal  Aditya  maXin 
m*i  |  .  .  .  ,  £af  Suiya  .'rdwxi  mahnn  tut  |  "  ()  gr*at  art  thou,  Sury»!  0  *oa  of 
.Aditi,  thou  art  great !  ....  0  Sarya,  in  renown  thou  art  irreat,"  oto. 

,M   Tcdtd  nam  adatUwr  yajniyoio  dki  dtv'th  Suryam  AdiCtyam.      Set  NlrtlkU  ii. 

13 ;  vii.  29.     Id  x.  37,  1,  however,  the  San  is  called  the  8oa  of  the  Heaven  (4 
im/r.iy«  nryayo) ;  aad  there  as  well  u  elsewhere  bo  U  called  th«  rye  of  Mitra  and 
Yaruna. 


AS    REPRESENTED    IX    THE    K1G-YEIU. 


5fi 


addressed  as  in  Aditya  along  with  Yanujo-"H  In  A.V.  viii.  2,  15,  the 
Ban  and  Moon  an  called  Adityas  (tallra  (vd  "dilyau  rakthaldth  tHrya- 
chamdramaidr  ubhau  |).  In  A.V.  ix.  1,  4,  the  golden-hued  Madhukuiiu 
U  aaid  to  be  the  mother  of  the  Adityas,  and  the  daughter  of  the  Yasus 
(J/dW"  </ityJnrl«  dttkitd  Fatundm  ....  Ai'rvMyo-rnrgd  Uadhukaid). 

In  the  Taittirtya  Veda  (quoted  by  Sfiyaoa  on  K.V.  it.  27,  1)  the 
Adityas  are  aaid  to  be  eight  in  number  I  Mitra,  Varuua,  Dhatri,  Arya- 
man,  Amio,  (lie)  Bbaga,  Indra,  and  Vivasvat.  Here  fire  name*  corrc- 
apond  with  thoae  given  in  R.Y.  ii.  27,  1,  while  Dakiiha  it  omitted, 
and  three  name*  are  added,  Dhutri,  Viviuvut  (who  nay  be  identified 
with  Surya),  and  Indra. 

The  aame  namea  are  given  in  the  Taittirtya  Brahmaoa,  L  1,  9,  1  (a 
paaaage  already  cited  in  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  27,  but  repeated 
here  for  facility  of  reference) : 

Aditik  pvtrakdmd  S&dhycbhyo  detthhyo  brahmaudanam  apachai  |  tatyai 
uthkttkanam  adaduh  |  tat  prdimU  |  td  rtto  'dhatta  |  taiyai  Dhdtd  cha 
Aryan**  eha  ajuyttdw*  \  t&  dvitiyam  apachat  |  2.  Tatyai  uchhfiihanaiH 
ad.iiiuH  |  tat  pruinAt  |  «d  rtto  'dhatta  tatyai  Mitrai  eha  Varunai  eha 
ajdyetdm  |  t&  tritlyam  apachat  \  tatyai  \uhhe*hanam  adaduh  \  tat  prui- 
mil  |  id  rtto  'dhatta  |  tatyai  A  mini  cha  Bhayai  eha  ajdyttdm  |  id  eha- 
imrtham  apaekat  |  tatyai  uchJuthama*  adaduh  |  tat  prdjn&t  |  id  rtto 
'dhatta  |  tatyai  Indrai  eha  riratrdmi  eha  ajdyttdm  | 

"  Aditi,  being  desirous  of  tons,  cooked  a  brahmaudana  oblation  for 
the  gods  the  Sadhyas.  They  gave  her  the  remains  of  it,  which  she  ate. 
She  conceived,  and  Dhatri  and  Aryaman  were  born  to  her."  The  same 
thing  is  done  a  second  time,  when  she  brings  forth  Mitra  and  Varans, 
— a  third  time,  whon  she  bears  Afiisa  and  Bhagn, — and  a  fourth  time, 
when  she  gives  birth  to  Indra  and  Vivasvut.  (Comp.  the  paaaage  from 
the  Taitt.  Sanh.  vL  5,  6,  1,  quoted  in  tho  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  26  f.) 
In  one  place  (iii.  1,  3,  5),  already  quoted  in  p.  50,  the  Kitapntha  Brah- 
mana speaks  of  the  Adityas  as  becoming  eight  by  the  addition  of  Mart- 
tArjda;  but  in  two  other  passages  (vi.  I,  2,  B ;  xi.  G,  3,  6),  quoted  in 
the  4th  voL  of  this  work,  p.  102,  as  being  twelve  in  number.  In  tho 
first  of  these  two  latter  texts  they  are  said  to  have  sprung  from  twelve 
drops  generated  by  Fraj&pati  (in  which  ease  they  could  not  have  been 

***  Although  in  their  SanhiU  test  both  Ufa  sad  Aofrcckt  read  AdityS,  thrj  both 
fi»t  Aiurjrt  the  dasl  at  the  reading  of  the  Pads  Int. 


56 


TAB    INDIAN'    GODS    GENERALLY, 


eons  of  Adili>,  and  in  the  second  they  are  identified  with  the  twelve 
months.  "*  In  the  Inter  India  a  literature  they  are  always  said  to  be 
twelve  (see  the  passages  quoted  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  101-106). 

Professor  Roth  (in  the  Journ.  Germ.  Or.  8ociety,  vi.  68  f.)  has  loo 
following  observations  on  the  Adityas  :  "  There  (in  the  highest  heaven) 
dwell  and  reign  those  gods  who  bear  in  common  the  nuoio  of  Adityas. 
We  must,  however,  if  we  would  discover  their  aarllaat  character,  aban- 
don  the  conceptions  which  in  a  later  age,  and  even  in  that  of  the  heroio 
poems,  were  entertained  regarding  theso  deities.  According  to  this 
conception  they  were  twelve  sun-gods,  bearing  evident  reference  to  tho 
twelve  months.  Hut  for  the  most  ancient  period  we  must  hold  fact 
the  primary  signification  of  their  name.  They  are  the  inviolable,  im- 
perishable, eternal  beings.  Aditi,  eternity,  or  the  eternal,  is  the  ele- 
ment which  sustains  them  and  is  sustained  by  them."  See  above,  (p. 
37).  Further  on  he  adds:  "The  eternal  and  inviolable  element  in 
which  the  Adityas  dwell,  and  which  forms  their  essence,  is  the  celestial 
light.  The  Adityas,  the  gods  of  this  light,  do  not  therefore  by  any 
means  coincide  with  any  of  the  forms  in  which  light  is  manifested  in 
the  universe.  They  uro  neither  suu,  nor  moon,  nor  stars,  nor  dawn, 
but  tho  eternal  sustoiners  of  this  luminous  life,  which  exists,  as  it 
were,  behind  all  these  phenomena." 

In  some  of  tho  hymns  were  tho  Adityas  (under  which  nome  Varuna, 
Mitru,  and  Aryamau  seem  chiefly,  if  not  exclusively,  to  be  intended), 
are  celebrated  (see  especially  ii.  27),  they  are  characterised  by  the 
epithet*  "bright"  (inehayah),  "golden"  {hiranyayah),  "pure"  (Mans- 
piltah),  "sinless"  (atryVnd*),  "blameless"  (aiMradyilh),  "holy."(r»Mrd> 
nah)  "strong"  (Uhatlriydk,  viii.  M, 1),  "kings,"  "resistless"  fanaifdA), 
"vast"  (uravah),  "deep"  (gabkiroh),  sleepless "  {attaptuijah),  "un- 
winking" (animuhsW*  "many-eyed  "  (MUrytluhi A,  ii.  27,  3),  "far- 
observing"  (dlryhadhiyoh),  "fixed  in  their  purpose"  (MrUavrmtdQ). 
Distant  things  are  ueur  to  them,  iL  27,  3  (tarvaih  rOjolhyah  parami 


'•*  In  Ot*  8'.  P.  Br.  iii.  6,  1,13,  a  dispute  between  tho  Adityas  and  Augi 
regarding  a  ■•crific*  is  mentioned.  (Comp.  Tnitt.  Br.  iii.  9.  21, 1).  In  the  tame  work, 
(the  S'p.  Br.)  iii.  2.  2,  0.  it  in  •iiiil  that  these  two  dux*  of  hringi  (th«  Adityu  sod 
Angiraers)  woe  both  dnoendnnt*  of  I'ruj.ipati,  und  that  they  itrovs  together  for  tkt 
priority  in  stcending  to  heaven.    In  A.V.  xiL  3, 13  f ,  and  xii.  39, 6  alio  they 
connected  with  one  nnoth  r. 

"•  This  it  a  cbamctemUc  of  the  gods  in  jrcuural. 


rasa, 
rork, 
>  and 


AS    REPRESENTED    IX    THE    RICVEDA, 


67 


ehid  anli),  they  uphold  and  preservo  thing*  both  moving  and  stationary 
{dkarantnyak  udHyilio  jtigat  itivih  derdk  vtivatya  bhmaiuuya  gopak  \ 
ibid.),  they  too  the  good  and  evil  in  men's  hearts,  and  distinguish  tho 
honest  roan  from  the  deceitful,  ii.  27,  3  (rtntah  pahjanti  crijantl  ula 
KiJhn  |  viii.  18,  16,  pakalrd  ttkana  det&h  hrittu  janUha  tnurtyain  \  «pa 
d<ayu/h  eha  a/kayvm  cha),  tin  v  m  holy  and  awful,  and  hutcrs  of  fulsc- 
hood  and  punish  sin,  ii.  27,  4  [rit&i&wU  <hay»m<in&h  ri$&ni),  vii.  60,  5 
(mm  ehttaro  anritatya  bh&rek},  vii.  52,  2;  Til.  G6,  13,  -which  they  are 
entreated  to  forgive,  ii.  27, 14  ;  ii.  29,  5 ;  averting  from  the  worshipper 
the  consequences  of  the  transgressions  of  others  as  well  as  of  his  own, 
TiL  62,  2 ;  viii.  47,  8 ;  or  transferring  those  penalties  of  sin,  whether 
open  or  secret,  to  the  head  of  Trita  Aptya,  viii.  47,  13  (yad  uvir  yad 
apUAyr.it  dtrato  tuti  dtufilritam  [  Trita  tad  tiicam  Aptyt  are  tumad 
dadkiitana) ;""  and  they  spread  nooses  for  their  enemies,  ii.  27,  16  {yah 
re  mJytlk  abhidrvhe  yajatrtih  piiidh  Adilyah  ripave  rithrittAh).  They 
are  supplicated  for  various  boons,  for  protection,  offspring,  guidance, 
light,  long  Life  etc.  (ae©  E.V.  ii.  27,  6-7,  10,  11,  14;  riii.  18,  22. 
In  viii.  47,  2,  they  are  said  to  know  how  to  remove  transgressions,  and 
are  besought  to  extend  their  protection  to  their  worshipper,  as  birds 
spread  their  wings  over  their  young  (nV/a  dev&h  aghanam  Jdityato  apd- 
kpttim  |  paktha  tayo  yalhu  upari  ti  attiu  ia-rma  yaehhala  |  3.  Fi  atnu 
tdki  iarma  tat  pahku  tayo  na  yantatw).**  Their  servants  arc  protected 
by  them  as  a  warrior  is  when  encased  in  his  armour,  Tiii.  47,  8  (yuthmt 
dtrtk  api  ima*i  yudhyanlak  ins  varauuu),  and  then  no  shaft,  however 
sharp  or  heavy,  can  strike  them  (ibid.  7  :  nu  tarn  ligmark  ckana  lya/o  na 
draUdd '  aiki  tan  guru  \  yatmai  u  iarma  aradhvatn  |  Bee  Muller,  Trans. 
p,  255). 

The  Adityas  regarded  as  a  class  of  gods  are  not,  however,  character- 
ized so  specifically  in  the  hymns,  as  two  of  the  individual  deities  who 
bear  that  general  designation,  I  mean  Yaruija  and  Mitra;  and  I  shall, 
therefore,  proceed  to  give  a  fuller  account  of  the  two  latter,  (with  whose 
names  that  of  Axyanum  ia  sometimes  associated),  omitting  any  further 
reference  to  Bhoga  and  Am  so,  who  nro  rarely  mentioned,  and  to  Daksha, 
of  whom  something  has  boon  already  said.  Surya  and  Savitri  will  be 
treated  separately. 

•"  Rath,  «.f.  TriU  Aptra,  sari  this  gad  in  eoncdrtd  u  dwelling  in  Ui«  remots 
dinsiw,  rtssortd  bom  »rw,  and  thst  it  is  in  conMqnencs  of  Dm  that  evil  i»  sought 
to  hm  truufetred  to  fcia. 

tm  Cofjpsn  Psalsjs,  ini.  8 ;  izzvi.  J  •  Ui.  4  ;  lain.  7  j  aei.  4. 


TO    IXDIAX    CODS    GEXEHALLY, 


SECTION    V. 


M1THA    AMD    VAHUXA. 

(1)   G aural  idea  of  thett  (too  goii. 

These  two  deities  are  very  frequently  found  in  conjunction.  Varuna 
is  also  often  separately  celebrated ;  Mitre  but  seldom.  Their  frequent 
association  is  easily  explained  if  the  commentators  arc  right  in  undi 
standing  Mitra  to  represent  the  day,  and  Varuna  the  night  Thai 
8fiynrjn  says  on  R. V.  i.  89,  3 :  "  Mitra  is  tho  god  who  preside*  otct 
the  day,  according  to  the  Vcdic  text,  'the  day  is  MitraV  "  {aktr- 
ttbhimllninaiii    Jevam   |  "  3faitraS\    vai   ahar"    Hi   frvteh)',    and   again, 

M  Vururja  is  derived  from  the  root  ffi,  to  cover ;  he  envelops  the  wicked 
in  his  snares ;  and  ia  tho  god  who  rules  over  the  night,  according  to 
the  tuxt,  'the  night  is  Varutja's"' ' "  (rrinoti  |  ptlpakritah  avakfyaik 
paiair  nirinufi  ill  riitry-abhimani-dtvo  VantfJth  \  iruyott  eha  "Vilnm] 
rafrir"  [Taitt.  Br.  i.  7,  10,  l]  it!  |).  In  the  same  way  the  commen- 
tator on  the  Taittirlyn  SunhitA,  i.  8,  16,  I  (Bibl.  lad.  vol.  ii.  p.  164), 
affirms  that  the  "word  Mitra  denotes  tho  suu ''  (Mitra-iabdatya  tityt- 
vdchikdt),  and  that  the  "  word  Varuna  signifies  ono  who^nvclop*  like 

■**  8ee  alio  bli  note  on  i.  141,  9,  wbero  b*  p'«  the  •nmt  explanation  rcjrardinf. 
JUitra  and  Yarnnn,  and  add*  that  Aryamea  is  ibe  god  who  goes  between  the  other 
two  (Aryamii  utfmyor  txadhyo-rcrtl'i  tttvah).  According  to  hia  note  on  L  90,  I, 
Aryam&n  ia  the  *un  who  make*  the  division  of  day  and  night  (Aryam<i  akt-ratrt- 
rUh'tyuya  kartin  tury«\).  Comptro  aUo  hi*  note  on  ii.  38,  8,  where  he  stye  that 
Varoaa  i*  icproaentcd  a»  giving  roting-placca  to  creature*  after  lunatt,  because  he 
Carrie*  on  the  affair*  of  the  night  ( Yonim  ithanam  nimiihi  nimmht  SavitMT  ***- 
aamiryr  tali  riiramiirtham  pnrjfMf/ah  prayurhh.td  \  Varugatya  ratrir  nirra hat*- 
ttiit).  In  i.  3S,  I,  Mitra  end  Varuna  are  iuvokrd  along  with  Agni,  Nigbt  aol 
8nvitri :  "  I  invoke  lint  Agni  for  our  welfare  .  I  invoke  hither  Mitra  and  Varana  to 
cur  aid ;  I  invoke  Night  who  giro*  rest  to  the  world ;  1  invoke  the  divine  Sarltri  to 

Our  aSBftanee "  [Xroyami  Affim  fr<Uk*mam  tr*itayt  kc+yCimt  Milra  vmntftit  iA*- 

<nm  \  AewySnt  r&rmjft*  niniamm  bmyami  drum  &titSr*m  iimy). 


AS    REPRESENTED    IX    THE    RIO-VBDA, 


59 


darkness  "  ( Faruna-iabdatya  andJuii&ra-rad  ir«raka-*«tMtii),  accord- 
ing to  the  text  (above  given,  in  p.  58,  of  the  Taittirtya  Brahmaoa, 
i.  7,  10,  1),  "  tho  day  ia  Mitra's  and  the  night  ii  VaruuaV  In 
another  part  of  tha  Taittirtya  Sanhita,  ri.  4,  8,  we  read  :  iVa  rei  ida* 
shed  na  naiitmm  dild  avyakritam  \  it  eVrdi  Mitrn-vammic  abrutan 
'•iJan  no  tif&tmyaUm  "  iti  |  .  .  .  .  Mitro  'far  ajanayad  FarttBO  ralrim  | 
"This  world  had  neither  day  nor  night,  but  Xros  (in  that  respect)  un- 
distinguished. The  gods  said  to  Mitra  and  Varuna,  '  Mako  a  separa- 
tion.' ....  Mitra  produced  the  day,  and  Varuna  tho  night,".  (See 
the  same  Banhitt  ii.  1,  7,  4.)  In  H.V  viii.  41,  3,  it  ia  said  of  Varuna, 
"  Tho  conspicuous  god  has  embraced  the  nights,  by  his  wisdom  ho  has 
established  tho  days,  and  everything  perfectly  "  (so  hhapah  paruhattoja 
•I  utro  nayayd  dadht  $a  niram  pari  d&Hatuh  |).  In  his  note  on 
another  passage  (IUY.  Tii.  87,  1)  8ayaoa  tap  that  it  ia  the  setting 
ana  "which  is  called  Varuna,  who  by  his  departure  creates  the  nights 
(Jttam  jfaeiim  turyah  sen  Varunah  ity  tuhytt*  |  m  a*  ava-yamamna 
rStrir  janayaii  |).  The  Satapatha  Bruhmarja,  xii.  9,  2,  12,  saya: 
"This  (tematrial)  world  is  Mitra;  the  other  (tho  celestial)  world  ia 
Varona  "  (ayoA  »«  Uh  Mttrah  \  atm  r*rv*ab  |) 


(2)  TXnr  ehitj  eharacUrittie*. 


^Tbe  following  are  some  of  the  principal  characteristics  of  these  gods,  as 
represented  in  the  Rig-veda.  Varuna  is,  sometimes  at  least,  risible  to  the 
aaentiil  eye  of  his  worshipper*.  Thus,  in  i.  25,  18,  the  rishi  says  :  Darjem 
mm  ritxa-dmiatam  dorsum  ratham  adhi  kihami  |  "I  behold  him  who  is 
risible  to  all;  I  beheld  his  chariot  upon  the  ground."  In  rii.  88,  2, 
also,  the  poet  exclaim* :  Adha  nu  oaya  tandriiatii  j'ayanvSn  Aynrr  ami- 
ImM  Fmrumttya  mamii  |  *'  When  I  hare  obtained  a  vision  of  Varuna,  I 
bare  regarded  his  lustre  as  resembling  that  of  Agni."  "°  Mighty  and 
fixed  in  purpose,  ho  sits  in  his  abodo  exorcising  Borercignty  (i.  25,  10 : 
A'»  thtudda  dhntaeraU  Varttnah  patty  Atm  a  \  tamrojyaya  tvkratuh  |).  Ho 
is  arrayed  in  golden  mail,1"  and  surrounded  by  his  messengers  or 
angels  (L  25,  13:    liibhrad  drnpixt  htranyayam  Farvn*  ra*t&  nirnija*  | 

"•  Set  Both  ■  article  om  H  Ths  bixbotf  gods  of  lbs  Ariau  not*,"  Joan.  Gem.  Or. 
SoortT.  tL  71. 


otm;,  n  11. 

m  GoUso  bmuI  is  also  afiigotd  to  Ssritri  (It.  A3,  3). 


60 


THE  INDIAN  OODS   GENERALLY, 


pari  tpaio  ni  tkedirt).  His  house,  at  which  the  worshippers  are  aaid  to 
hart-  arrived,  has  o  thousand  doors  (vii.  88,  5 :  Brihaniam  mdnaA 
FaruQa  tvadMcah  lahatradv&raik  jnyama  arikaix  U).  Again  he  is 
described  a*  occupying,  along  with  Slitra,  «  stable  palace  supported  by  a 
thousand  columns ,u  (ii.  41,  5  :  RdjAni  anabhidruha  dkrttrt  tadati  «*• 
tarn*  |  tafuurotihtin*  6wl«  |  v.  62,  6:  Rajana  ktkattram  akriniyamdnd 
tafuurait/iutain  bibhrithah  tafia  dvau\).  The  two  deities  aaoond  U»«r 
chariot,  which  is  drawn  by  horses,  and  is  golden-coloured  at  the  break 
of  day,  and  takes  the  hue  of  iron  at  the  setting  of  tho  sun  (t.  62,  8, 
already  quoted  in  p.  42).1U  Mounted  on  their  car,  and  soaring  in  the 
highest  empyrean,  they  behold  all  things  in  heaven  and  earth  (v.  62, 
4,  8 ;  v.  63,  1 :  Rilatya  gcp&v  adhi  titkfkato  ratham  talyoonarmAmd 
partm*  vytmani).  Vftruoa  •»  ea*d  to  bo  farsightcd  {uruehaJt«ha»,  j.  25, 
"5,  16  ;  viii.  90,  2) ;  and  thousand-eyed  (iahatrae-kaitktu,  vii.  34,  10). 
In  one  place  mention  jb  made  of  his  golden- winged  messenger  (htranya- 
paiuliam  Farunatya  dntam,  x.  123,  6),  and  elsewhere  the  sun  is  called 
tlic  sya  of  Mitra  and  Varuna  {chakshur  Mitrcutja  f'arunatya,  viL  61, 
1  j  vii.  98,  1  ;  x.  37,  1).  Along  with  Aryaman,  another  of  tho 
Adityas,  these  two  gods  are  called  Bun-eyed  (ramrAeiiAasitA^  vii.  66, 
10).  They  are  also  denominated  tvp&nl,  the  beautiful  or  skilful-handed. 
Varuna  is  frequently  spoken  of  as  a  king  (rd/'d  Farugak,  i-  24,  7,  R ; 
iv.  1,  2  ;  v.  40,  7 ;  vii.  64,  1  ;  x.  103,  0 ;  x.  173,  5) ;  aa  king  of  all 
(x.  132,  4);  as  king  of  all,  both  gods  and  men  (ii.  27,  10:  few*  fit- 
ettfuith  Varuna  ati  rrija  yt  eka  dtvAh  atura  y«  eka  marllak  |);  as  king 
of  tho  universe  (ciitaiya  bhuvatuuya,  v.  85,  3),  and  of  all  that  exists 
(tato  atya,  vii.  87,  6) ;  as  an  universal  monarch  (»amraf,  L  25,  10 ; 
28,  6;  v.  85,  1 ;  vi.  68,  9;  viii.  42,  1);  as  a  self-dependent  ruler 
nardf,  ii.  28,  1).  The  same  epithets  of  king  and  universal  monarch 
are  also  applied  in  other  places  to  Mitra  and  Varuna  conjointly  (aa  in 
i.  71,9;  i.  186,1,4;  i.  137,1;  r.62,6;  v.  63,  2,  3,  5  ;  v.  65, 2 ;  t.  68, 
2;  vii.  64,  2;  viii.  23,  30;  viii.  25,  4,  7,  8 ;  riiL  90,  2 ;  x.  65,  6).M 

'"  Compare  Ovid.  Met.  ii.  1  IT.  Regis  Solii  erst  sublimibn*  alia  colnmaU,  ■to. 
lib  golden  house  is,  according  to  A.V.  vii.  83,  1,  built  in  tho  vatera  (ajmt  U  rdjm 
YmrvQ*  fT*k»  hiranf/ayo  miltX). 

01  I  fulluw  Ilolh  here  in  understanding  udtta  lutytuya  not  of  tho  r**imf{t*  tho 
phrase  Rvncrallj  mceaw),  but  of  the  tiling  of  the  ran.  It  ii  thu»  only  that  the  iroa 
colour  of  tho  chariot  become*  intelligible. 

IH  The  same  deities  with  Arramaa  are  called  king*  ia  i.  41,  8 ;  and  kings  of  aesa 


its 

\ 

eh 


'AS   REPRESENTED   IN   THE    RIG-VEDA. 


61 


Power,  martial  strength,  or  sovereign  authority,  kthatira,  U  also 
constantly  predicated  of  one  or  both  of  these  deities ;  and  they  as  well 
u  the  Adicyas  generally  are  denominated  the  strong,  or  martial,  gods, 
IthattriyAh  (aa  in  i.  24,  6 ;  i.  25,  6 ;  i.  136,  I ;  t.  66,  2 ;  v.  67,  I  ; 
t.  68,  1,  3;  vi.  49,  1;  vi.  51,  10; m  -ri.  67,  5,  6;  vii.  34,  11;  vii. 
64,  2 ;  Tiii.  25,  8  j  viii.  56,  1 ;  viii.  90,  2).  They  are  also  designated 
as  rvdrd,  tho  terrible  (v.  70,  2,  3)  j  as  tuurS,  the  divine  (vii.  86,  2  ; 
viii.  26,  4;  viii.  27,  20);  as  tho  divine  and  lordly  deities  {atura  Mr 
aryd)  among  the  gods  (vii.  65,  2).  The  epithet  antra,  divine,  is  fre- 
quently applied  to  Varuna  in  particular  (aa  in  i.  84,  14;  ii.  27,  10; 
t.  65,  5,  6;  viii.  42,  1),  though  it  is  also  given  to  other  deities  of  tho 
Vtdic  pantheon. 

Another  word  employed  to  express  their  diTine  power,  or  wisdom,  is 
adjrd  ;"■  and  Varuna  is  sometimes  called  tho  mfiyin,  the  possessor  of 
this  attribute  (vi.  48,  14;  vii.  28,  4j  x.  99,  10;  x.  117,  5).  While 
in  some  places  (iii.  61,  7  ;  v.  63,  4)  this  quality  (w««yu)  is  ascribed  to 
the  two  deities  themselves,  in  other  verses  of  the  lost  quoted  Ii 
(v.  63,  3,  7)  they  are  said  to  cause  the  heaven  to  rain,  and  to  uphold 
their  ordinances,  throngh  the  power  (moynyii)  of  tho  divine  being 
(aturasya).  It  might  appear  as  if  the  word  antra  denoted  here  some  great 
deity  distinct  from,  and  superior  to,  M  itra  and  Varuna,  through  whoso 
strength  they  acted ;  but  in  other  places,  as  we  have  already  seen,  the 
term  «ura  is  distinctly  mod  ns  an  epithet  of  Varuna  and  the  other 
Adityaa. 

(3)  Functiant  and  attribuU*  of  Varuna, 

The  grandest  ccsroical  functions  are  ascribed  to  Varuoa.  Possessed 
of  illimitable  resources  (or  knowledge),  this  divine  being  has  meted 
out,  (or  fashioned),  and  upholds,  heaven  and  earth ;  he  dwells  in  all 
worlds  aa  sovereign  ruler  (viii. 42,  I  :  A'tabhntid  dyuat  antro  tiiva- 
ctdilk  amimUii  rarixuinam  prilhirytllt  \  ailtfad  rigvii  bfiuranfini  tamrfid 
rika   it  tun$  Vantnasya  eraUni),  indeed,   tho  three  worlds  arc  cm- 

{rijinmi  tkarikanhtam)  in  X.  26.  6.     In  vii.  66.  11.  it  is  mid:  "  The  kinff*  Milt.i. 
Varvaa.  tad  Aryaman,  who  MtaMishtd  tae  yrar,  the  month,  and  the  d»y,  etc.,  »nj»y 

■anvalWd  d->roini«i  'y*  ri  J-iJkith  iurndum  maiam  ii  J  tJuir  yitjnam  litttm  tk*  u4 
fuiom  |  mSpyom  farm*  Jtfi'.'nj  Ary*m*\  k*K*tr*n.  tin). 

"'  Id  these  tws  but  passagta  Agni  »Ww  with  Mien  tad  Varuna  the  cpitLtt  of 
■BAalatM. 

111  it  is  sbo  awribtd  to  other  deities  :  we  Bahtlingk  and  Roth.  if. 


INDIA*  C0D3  GENERALLY, 


Dittoed   within   him   (rii.   87,    5  :    ti*n   rfydro    nihitah   antar 
tiara   hJiumih)  ;    ho   made   the   golden    and   revolving   no   to 
in   tho  firmament  (ibid,   yr«f*«   rSji   Varunai  ckakra  *ta&  diri  prtn. 
khan*  hiranyayaih  iuiha  kasn  \  oomp,  v.  85,  2).     Sec  also  vi.   70,    1  ; 
vii.  86,  I ;  vii.  87,  6;  viii.  41,  4,  5,  10.     Tho  wind   which  rtsouids 
through  tho  atmosphere  in  hit  breath  (vii.  87,  2  :  atoui  t«  rato  rajah  I 
narlnot).     He  has  opened  boundless  paths  for  tho  sun,"7  and  ha*  hol- 
lowed out  channels  for  tho  rivers,  which  flow  by  his  command  (i.  24, 
8 :  Urutt  hi  raja  Varuaai  ehakdra  nvryiiya  pant  ham  anu  stars  «  |    ii. 
28,  4:  Pra  aim  Adilyo   (uri/aii  vidharlta   ptoas   tindkaro  Varumatya 
yanti  |  vii.  87,  1  :  Radat  palho  Farunah  ailryilya  pra  arnamui  aamudriyi 
nailndm).    By  his  wonderful  contrivance  the  rivers  pour  their  waters 
into  tho  one  ocean,  bat  never  fill  it"*  (v.  85,  6:  imiit  u  mm  ktwiUmv 
atya  muyiiiH  ntaklm  drvaat/a  naiir  acMhirtha  \  tkam  yad  udnu  ma  prim- 
aati  en'ir  Utinehantlr  avamyah  lamudram).     Ilia  opbnanwa  are  fixed 
unil  una»sailablo  "*  (iii.  54,  18:  Adnbdhilni  Farunatya  rratuni).     They 
rest  on  him,  unshaken,  as  upon  a  mountain  (ii.  28,  8 :  Tea  hi  kam  jmt- 
intend  iriiAni  apnuhyutuai dulnbha  rratani  |  See  also  i.  25,  6,  10;  i.  44, 
14 ;  i.  141,  9;  ii.  1,  4 ;  viii.  25,  2,  where  the  word  dhrita-vrato,  "be 
whoto  laws  arc  fixed,"  is  found);  through  their  operation,  the  moon 
walls  in  brightness,  and  the  stars  which  appear  in  the  nightly  sky 
mysteriously  vanish  in  daylight  (i.  21,  10 :  Ami  y$  ribhuh  mAitil$ak 
ufhehu   naktam  dadrrtr*  kuka  chid  did    1ynh   |  adaldhdni  Fantmmayty 
vratani  FtchuhaSaeh  chandmmil  mtkUm  ati).     Neither  the  birds  flying 
in  the  air,  nor  the  rivers  in  their  sleepless  flow,  can  attain  n  knowledge 
of  his  pow<T  or  his  wroth  (i.  24,  6:   Na  hi  U  kikatratit  na  taho  na  matt- 
yum  vayai  ehana  ami  patayantah  &pnh  \  na  imiih  Spo  aaittiikam  tha- 
rantih).     His  mewngors  behold  both  worlds  (vii.  87,  8:  l*iri  apafc 
Farunatya  amadiififdh  uhhf  paiyanti  rodatl  tumrLr  |    See  also  i.  24,  13; 
vi.  67,  6).     He  knows  the  flight  of  birds  in  the  sky.  tho  path  of  ships 
on  the  ocean,  the  course  of  the  far-travelling  wind,  and  beholds  all  the 


m  In  tu.  60,  4,  Uitnt,  Vanioa,  and  Arjmnan  an  nid  to  open  out  paths  fur  U>« 
mn  (yamtmi  ua'ttyiQ  adkvano  radunti  iVyurfi j . 

"•  See.  Roth  on  "The  bighi  the  Arisa  races."  p.  71.    Compare  Eccl«- 

aiastss,  L  7 :  "All  tho  ritf  r»  run  into  tin-  >.u ;  j-ot  th«  tea  is  not  full  :  unto  the  fllsc* 
from  whoncr  tli«  rivers  tome,  thither  they  return  Mat 

11  •  Sec  Knih  in  the  Joum.  Antr.  Or.  Society,  ui.  341;  and  MutUr's  Ane.  Sunk, 
lit.  p.  534,  note  2. 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA. 


«r 


■ccret  things  that  have  been,  or  shall  bo  dooo  (i.  25,  7  :  Vtda  yo  tlndn 
padam  antarikikeffa  palalCm  \  teda  ndvak  tamudriyaft  |  9.  V*da  rataiyt 
rarttamim  uror  ritkcatya  brikatah  \  11.  Yo  vifoani  adkhttld  chiiittan 
abkt  paiymli  |  kritdni  yd  eka  kartvd).  No  creature  can  even  wink 
without  bim  (ii.  28,  6:  Na  ki  lead  art  nimitkaS  ckaiut  lie).  He  wit- 
i  men's  truth  and  falsehood  (rii.  49,  3  :  Ydtum  ruji  VarvQo  ydtt 
yt  tatydnnte  aiapaiyan  jum'iiiCm).  He  instruct*  tho  riahi  Va- 
suhtha  in  mysteries  (vii.  87,  4 :  Uticka  n  I'aruno  mtdkiruya  trik 
tapta  namd  ayhnya  bibhartti).  But  his  secrets  and  those  of  Mitra  arc 
not  to  he  revealed  to  tho  foolish  (ho  cam  ntnyAni  aehite  abhapan). 

la  the  sixteenth  hymn  of  the  fourth  book  of  tho  Athurvn-voda,  his 
power  and  omniscience  are  thus  celebrated : 

1.  Brikanm  tthdm  adkishfhut'l  antikdd  iva  paiyati  |  yah  itAyan  man- 
yate  ckarait  itircai*  tbt-ak  idath  ciduk  |  2.  Ytu  tuhfbati  ckurttli  yui  ch* 
eaufkaii  yo  niiay/tm  ckarati  yah  pratankam  ]  dmu  xantiuihadya  yad  mail' 
iraytt*  rdjA  tad  r«d*  FarvmtH  trittyak  |  3.  Uteyam  bkimir  Varutyaay* 
rajnak  «Mm«  dyaur  brikatl  durc-antd  |  uio  lamudiau  Famstuya 
kulihl  Hl'i„Hini%  alp*  udttkt  mTirtah  |  4.  Ula  yo  dyAm  aiUarpdt  par**- 
tad  **  t*  muthydtoi  Vmntuya  rujnah  |  dkah  tpaiai  pracharmlldam 
tuya  takstrdithdk  alt  paiyanti  bhiimim  |  6.  liar  ram  tad  rajA  Fammo  ri 
ehothte  yad  untard  rodatX  yat  paraitdt  \  innkhydldk  tuya  nimitho  j'and- 
n/im  aktkdH  tea  itagknl  ni  tninoti  tdni  |  6.  Yi  te  p&idh  Varnna  tapta 
tapta  trtdhd  h'tklhant*  vitkitdh  ruthantah  \  tinantu  tarvt  anritam  cadan- 
tarn  yak  tatyttc&dl  ati  tain  tpi/antu  | 

'*  1 .  Tho  great  One  who  rules  otct  these  worlds  beholds  as  if  ho 
were  close  at  hand.  When  any  man  thinks  he  ia  doing  aught  by 
stealth,  tho  gods  know  it  nil;  2.  (and  they  perceive)  every  one  who 
stands,  or  walks,  or  glides  along  secretly,  or  withdraws  into  hi9  house, 
or  into  any  lurking-plaoe."*  Whatever  two  persons,  sitting  together, 
devise,  Yaruna  the  king  knows  it,  (being  present  there  as)  a  third. ,u 
3.  This  earth,  two,  belongs  to  the  king  Yaruga,  and  that  vttst  sky 
whose  ends  are  so  remote.  The  two  oceans  [tho  aerial  and  terrestrial]"1 
are  Varuga's  stomachs;  he  resides  in  this  small  pool  of  water.     4.  He 

1M  Tbs  gsastsl  moss  is  clear;  but  Ibe  messing  of  some  of  the  word*  U  oncortoia. 

**>  Ia  R.V.  x.  11,  1,  Agni  ii  eompsxtd  to  V»niiv»  in  omni*ci«nm ;  which  mrm»  to 
■how  that  this  ia  an  attribatc  ia  which  Varuna  was  regarded  m  prc-^caincat.  With 
sarsss  1  and  9,  compare  Psalm  cinii.  I   «,  and  St.  Matthew  zvhL  M. 

us  Compare  Grama,  i.  T.  and  Psalm  eiltrid.  4. 


'64 


TEE   INDUS'    GODS   GENERALLY, 


who  should  Hoe  far  beyond  the  »ky,  would  not  there  escape  from  Vnnina 
the  king.1"  His  messengers  descending  from  heaven,  traverse  this 
world;  thousand-eyed,  they  look  across  tho  whole  earth.  5. 
Ytronfc  perceives  all  that  exists  within  hearen  and  earth  and  all  that 
is  beyond.  Tho  winkings  of  men's  eyes  arc  all  numbered  by  him.,u 
He  handles lM  (all)  these  (things)  as  a  gamester  throws  his  dice.  6.  May 
thy  destructive  nooses,  o  Varuna,  which  are  cost  seven-fold,  and  three- 
fold, ensnare  the  man  who  speaks  lies,  and  pass  by  him  who  speaks 

Varnrja  is  represented  us  having  unlimited  control  crer  the  destinies 
of  mankind.  He  is  said  to  hare  a  hundred,  a  thousand  remedies,  and  is 
supplicated  to  shew  hie  wide  and  deep  bencrolcncc,  and  drivo 


m  'Willi  tUiji  verse  compare  verse*  7-10  of  the  Psalm  exxxix. 
'»»  Compare  St.  Mntthrw  x.  80. 

'**  Roth,  ».r.  think*  mi  mimli  hero  ntay  menu  "  olMnrres.**     See  also  bis  i 
in  Jour.  G*rm.  Or.  Society,  tii.  607,  wberu  the  sense  of  superintending  if  aatsigrsed. 

'*•  The  hrmn  i»  oonoludsd  by  two  vers**,  containing  birpn  i  stioSS.     Aftar  giriog  • 

German  translation  of  the  whole  ia  hi*  Dissertation  on.  the  Atharrn-ved*,  p.  19  f 

(Tubingen.  1*56)  Professor  Both  remarks  ss  follows:  "There  u  no  hymn  in  to* 

■faola  Vcdic  literature  whiih  express  the  divine  omniscience  in  such  forcible  term* 

■  I  his;   niul  yi't  this  iMiiulifiil  description  has  been  degraded  into  au   introduction  lo 

on  unpreestton.    But  in  thin,  an  in  many  other  passage*  of  this  Veda,  it  U  natural 

to  conjecture  Oi*t  eristing  fragment*  of  older  hymns  have   been  used  to  dttk  out 

Ugh*]  foramina.     Tim  Oral  five  or  even  »ix  vcrsm  of  tha  hymn  might  he  regarded 

*<  a  frsgBS&t  of  thU  sort."    Thin  hymn  hits  al»o  born  translated  by  Professor  W  ul' 

see  "Chipii."  i.  41  f.    I  have  attempted  the  following  parttphrsoe  ia  En.; 

"  The  mighty  Lord  on  high.  00  deeds,  u  if  at  hniul,  espies  : 

The  god*  know  *U  men  do,  though  men  would  fain  their  deeds  disgaiesv 

Whoever  stands,  whosver  mores,  or  steal*  from  plftca  to  plsee, 

Or  bidet  him  in  hi*  Kcret  cell, — the  god*  his  movements  tree*. 

Wherever  two  together  plot,  and  deem  they  arc  alone. 

King  Varuao  is  there.  ■  third,  mil  all  their  schema  are  known. 

ThU  earth  is  hi*,  to  him  belong  those  rut  and  boundless  skies; 

Both  mi  within  him  rest,  and  yet  in  that  small  pool  he  lie*. 

-Whoever  far  beyond  ths  »ky  should  think  hi*  way  tn  wing, 

lis  ccnlil  ads  tlm  pra.«p  n{  Vnmnn  the  king. 

His  spies  descending  frum  the  ilire  glide  all  this  world  around. 

Their  thousand  eyes  oil-scanning  swrcp  to  rarth's  remotest  bound. 

wimrc'er  exists  in  heaven  snd  earth,  whats'er  beyond  the  skies. 

Before  the  eye*  of  Yorunn,  tii'-  Ian;:,  uiilolilid  lies. 

The  eeaselen  winking*  sll  he  counts  of  every  mortal's  #ycs: 

U*  wield*  this  universal  frame,  as  gamester  throws  hi*  dies. 

Those  knotted  noose*  winch  tOOO  lliiitf'st.  »  gud,  the  bad  to  suare,- 

All  liar*  let  them  overtake,  bat  all  too  truthful  spore." 


A8   REPRESENTED  IX  TBS   RIO-VEDA-  65 

evil  ami  «in  (i.  2-1,  0 :  SaUih  U  r&jan  bhiahajah  aalnuritm  urvl  gMirft 
mmatu  U  tttu  |  b&dhatw  iOra  nirjititn  paruchaih  kritam  chid  tnah  pra 
mmwmadhtamat);  to  untie,  like  a  rope,  and  remove  ;<ia  (i>.  28,  5:  vi  much 
iratfuy*  ralmtnpt  t'ra  ugah  ;  r.  85,  7,  8  :  yat  tint  dyai  thalrima  iiira- 
thai  tat) ;  bo  is  entreated  not  to  steal  away,  but  to  prolong,  lire  (i.  24, 
11  :  Mil  itah  tiyuh  pra  moihlh  |  i.  25,  12:  pra  nah  ayiiihihi  turinhal)\ 
and  to  spare  the  suppliant  who  daily  transgresses  bis  laws  (i.  I 
yaeh  rhiri  hi  U  riio  yathil  pra  dtra  Varuna  rraiam  vunimtm  dy.ivi 
dyan  |  nu  no  badfulya  hatnare  jihlumtya  flradhah).  In  many  places 
mention  is  mode  of  the  bonds,  or  nooses,  with  which  ho  seizes  and 
punishes  transgressors  (i.  24,  16;  i.  25,  21 ;  vi.  74,  4 ;  x.  85,  24.  and 
A.V.  iv.  16,  6,  as  quoted  above). m  Mitra  and  Varuna  conjointly  ore 
spoken  of  in  one  passage  (rii.  65,  3)  as  being  barriers  against  falsehood, 
furnished  with  many  noosea,  which  the  hostile  mortal  cannot  surmount 
(bh&np&ia  anriUuya  seta  duratyelu  ripait  marty&ya) ;  and  in  another 
place  (rii.  84,  2)  lodra  and  Varuna  arc  described  aa  binding  with 
bonds  not  formed  of  rope  (sWri'Mi'r  arajjubhih  tinWwh).  On  the  other 
hand  Varuna  is  said  to  be  gracious  even  to  him  who  has  committed 
sin  (*ii.  87,  7  :  yo  mril.n/ali  <halru*he  chid  Syah).  He  ie  the  wise 
guardian  of  immortality  (viii.  42,  2  :  dhlram  amrilatya  yepdm)',  and  a 
hope  is  held  out  that  ho  and  Tama  reigning  in  hli-sscdnees  shall  be 
beheld  in  the  next  world  by  the  righteous  (x.  14,  7  : m  ubhd  rttyoM 
toadhaya  madaaUl  Yamam  paiyilti  Jarunaih  eha  dtvam). 

•*>  Ami,  however,  is  alto  prartd  to  loose  bit  m  bendl  R.V,  t.  •»,  7 

(rrrf'kwW  Ague  at  muw*yJk%  phi'm) .  and  in  rii.  ICH,  13.  I mlru'«  frttbn  (/.. 
pr<*«tik)  are  ountkmed.    In  A.Y.  xix.  86.  1.  the  Aauraa,  ma»t«r»  of  magical  art*,  who 
go  about  with  iron  art*,  iron  bonria.  and  hooka,  are  referred  to  (*jro-/3/«»  JmrnA  ma- 
yvu  jy^.»wyji*  /Hair  ankino  yi  tJuranti). 

°*  la  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society  for  1855,  pp  2:i*  n*.,  Profcawr 
Weber  conunaakatc*  from  the  S*alapaiba  Drihmaoa  (xi.  (>,  1,  1  IT.]  a  Kind  regard* 
lag  Varnga  and  hi*  nan  BbrigU.     The  UlU-t  had  nfa-rmnl  himself  aup.ru.. 
father  tn   witdom,  sad  wae  desired  br  him  to  vi»it  the  four  point*  of  the  ec 

•:  witBCMO  CKltU:  I      »    .r!i|  I't'.l,    'i\  ■ 

ao-ompaaic*  itiit  kffratl  nith  nmo  wry  intcrvtiux  remarks,    among  stka  I 

w*  that  the  legend  i*  ibemi  to  lie  ancient  from  the  lii-b  position  which  it 
saatgni  to  Varuna,  who  sppssra  to  bo  eonorirod  aa  th*  lord  of  the  universe,  Mated  ia 
the  midst  of  noma,  from  which  he  luntw  the  place*  of  paniahmrnt  situated  all 
roved  kiai.  Yarnrta,  lie  uiil',  i»  n'pr<x-nU»l  in  tin-  S'aUpitlia  ISr-ihmuno  xiii.  3,  *,6, 
m»  U»tag  the  form  of  •  fair,  bald,  tootMw*,  (with  projtctuig  toithfj,  sad  ycllow- 
ijad  old  man. 

f 


M 


I  UK    WDIAH    GODS    GENERALLY. 


The  attributes  and  functions  ascribed  to  Varuna  impart  to  hi* 
meter  a  moral  elevation  and  sanctity  far  surpassing  that  It  I 
!*ny  other  Vedic  deity.     This  appears  not  only  from  the  passage*  to 
which  I  have  already  referred,  but  also  from  the  two  hymns  (rii. 
and  vii.  89)  translated  by  Professor  Midler  in  his  Anc.  San*k.  I.ii. 
540  f.,  and  Chips,  i.  39  ff. ;  in  which  tho  risdii,  who  u  said  to  be  Va« 
Kistitha,  while  palliating  his  sins,  implores  the  god's  forgiveness,  and 
entreats  that  his  lifo  may  be  spared.1*'     I  shall  quote  a  part  of  the  first 
and  tho  whole  of  tho  second : 

U.V,  vii.  80,  3.  Pruhhe  tad  mo  Varuna  dtdrikhv  upa  cmi  chiiitusko 
viprichham  \  tavtunam  it  me  karayai  chid  &har  ayem  ha  tulhytm  Varunn 
krinit*  |  -I.  Kim  ii/jah  CM  Varum  jyttfhaih  yat  ttoUiraik  jiahamtati 
taklnii/itm  |  pra  tad  nu  rncho  ditlahha  nadhGto  aca  ted  anen&h  nanuuii 
turah  it/rim  |   5.  Ana  drugdhOni  pilryU  nr-ya  no  aca  ya  vayaSi  tha, 

hih  |  arit  rujan  paiutripam  tin  tuyuvt  urija  miasm  na  dAmno  Va- 
tithfham  |  6.  Na  »a  tvo  daitho  Varuna  dhrnlth  til  turd  manyttr  vihhldakn 
arkittih  |  tuti  jyayun  kanlyatah  upGre  napnai  ehana  id  anrilaiya 
prauntd  I 

"  Seeking  to  perceive  that  sin,  o  Varuna,  I  inquire;  I  resort  to  th< 
wise  it  nki  The  sages  all  tell  me  the  same;  it  is  Varuna  who  is 
angry  with  thee.  4.  What  great  sin  is  it,  Varuna,  for  which  thou 
seekest  to  slay  thy  worshipper  and  friend  ?  Tell  me,  o  unassailable 
and  self-dependent  god;  aud,  freed  from  sin,  I  shall  speedily  come  to 
thec  with  adoration.  5.  Release  us  from  the  sins  of  our  fathers, '" 
and  from  those  which  wc  have  committed  in  our  own  persons.  O  king, 
rvleuao  Voaishtha  like  a  robber  who  has  fed  upon  cattle;  release  him 
like  a  calf  from  its  tether.  r>.  It  was  not  our  will,  Varuna,  but  somo 
seduction,  which  led  us  astray, —wine,1"  nnger,  dice,  or  thought! 


E 


trim* 

...     r. 


I 


The  stronger  perverts  the  weaker.     Even  sleep  occasions  Bin." 

"•  On  thf  ohaMQtSf  of  VaniQa  as  a  moral  govfrner,  »ni  Rnth,  J  num.  Oorm.  Or. 
8wiicty,  ri.  7 1  If. ;  a  paper  by  the  aaiav  author  in  the  Juurn.  Anier.  Or.  8ocicty, 
in.  340  a*.  -,  and  hia  reply  to  Weber  in  tho  Journ.  Germ.  Or.  Society,  vii.  007. 

'*>  Compare  A..Y.  r.  30, 4,  anil  Taittiriya  Brflhmsim  iii.  7.  12,  8,  1 :  yd  mofi 
ynrbht  niti  tnnt  etutktira  ynl  pita  |  Afnir  mii  tntmhd  rnatuM  (  yatfa  ptpuht  malarwm 
pilMraut  fiulraK  pmmudito  dhtiyan  \  akimilau  pitarau  nuya  tat  |  "  May  Agni  (fret) 
me  from  the  u  which  my  mother  or  father  committed,  when  I  w»»  in  tho  womb.  If 
T  braised  my  mother  or  father  while  tucking,  delighted,  when  an  infant,  may  my 
parent*  not  bare  been  injured  thereby." 

Ul  We  see  from  this  that  wine  tu  drunk  by  the  Vcdic  rishis.    Compare  via.  ■:, 


AS    KBPKBSBNTED    IN    THE    RIO-VEDA. 


C7 


rii.  89,  1.  3fo  thu  Varvna  mrinmayaih  griheit  riijann  ahatlt  gamam  \ 
aipTa  **k*l*tra  mrtiaya  |  2.  Tad  m*  pra*phwan»  ,va  driiir  na  dhm&to 
mdrnah  |  mp'la  ityUdi  |  3.  Jirnlvah  tamaha  dinaU  praiipam  jagama 
iueh*  |  4.  A  prim  madhyt  tost  kit  utiitam  triihna  'vidaj jaritSram  |  5.  Vat 
kineha  idaih  Foruga  daicyt  j'ana  abhidroham  manmhydi  charnmnai  \ 
tichittl  tat  tata  dkarmd  yuyopima  mA  not  lasimld  erutso  deva  r\ruhah  | 

'*  Let  me  not,  o  king  Varans,  go  to  the  house  of  earth."*  Be  gra<  I 
o  might;  god,  be  gracious.  2.  I  go  along,  o  tfaQlfknr,  quivering  like 
an  inflated  shin ;  be  gracious,  etc.  3.  0  bright  and  mighty  god,  I 
have  transgressed  through  want  of  power,  bo  gracious,  etc.  4.  Thirst 
has  overwhelmed  thy  worshipper  when  standing  even  in  thu  midst  of 
tlic  wntcrn;  bo  gracious,  etc.  5.  Whatever  offence  tliis  be,  o  Yarurja, 
that  we  mortals  commit  against  the  pcoplo  of  the  sky  (the  gods) ;  in 
whatever  way  wo  have  broken  thy  law*  by  thoughtlessness,  be  gracious, 
o  mighty  god,  be  gracious."  i 

In  another  place  (vii.  88,  4  ff.)  the  same  rishi  alludes  to  hia  previous 
friendship  with  Vanmn,  and  to  the  favours  the  god  hod  formerly  con- 
ferred upon  him,  and  enquires  why  they  hnd  now  ceased : 

4.  Vtuuk{kam  ka  Varumo  n&ti  Od/uld  fishim  chakara  napdh  makobkih  \ 
ttoturam  tiprah  ludinatn  ahnfim  y&i  mi  dyOccu  tatanan  ynd  tukuah  | 
5.  Kc*  ty&ni  nau  takhya  babh'iiiiA  tachuvahe  yad  avrikam  purd  thit  | 
bj-ikanttm  mtinaUt  Var**a  nadhnruk-  tahatradedram  jagama  gfihnm  U  | 
0.  Yah  Qpir  nityo  Faruna  prujrih  tan  tr&m  agdihii  krinavat  takkil  U  \ 
■ul  tt  enatranto  yakthin  hkujema  yandhi  ma  tiprah  stwat«  rarti  thorn  | 

"  Varans  plnoed  Yasisbtba  on  his  boat :  by  hia  power  the  wise  and 
mighty  doity  made  him  a  rishi  to  offer  praise  in  an  suspicious  period  of 
his  life,  that  his  days  and  dawns  might  bo  prolonged.  6.  Where'* 
are  those  friendships  of  us  two  ?  We  seek  the  harmony  which  (we 
enjoyed)  of  old.  I  have  gone,  o  self-suBtaining  Varuno,  to  thy  Tast 
and  spacious  house  with  a  thousand  gates.  6.  He  who  was  thy  friend, 
intimate,  thine  own,  and  beloved,  has  committed  offences  against  thee. 
Let  not  us  who  are  guilty  reap  the  fruits  of  our  sin.  Do  thou,  a  wiao 
god,  grant  protection  to  him  who  praises  thee." 


12,  and  x.  107, 9,  There  it  i*  oid  that  tha  liberal  man  rain*  for  himself,  among  ether 
durable  things,  a  draught  of  wins  (jmlaftiryam  nrttyiA). 

lB  Compare  A.V.  v.  30,  H  :  •>  **  tkimi-^riko  H>ut*t. 

***  Compare  Paalnu  linia.  41),  and  xxv.  0. 


M 


INDIAN    CODS   GEIfERALLY. 


tr\ 

s 

-I 

eir 

Their 
i  rd£ 
A«mV 


(4)   Conjoint  function*  and  attribute*  of  Mitrn  ana"  Faruna. 

Tho  same  or  nearly  the  «irae  functions  and  attributes  oe  arc  ascribed 
to  Varuna  arc  also  attributed  to  him  and  Mitrn  conjointly.     They  up- 
hold and  rule  over  the  earth  and  sky,  the  shining  and  the  terrestrial 
region*,  and  place  the  gun  in  the  heaven*  (v.  62,  3 ;  v.  69,  1,4:  tr\ 
rockand  Varvn_a  trin  ttta  dyiln  trigs  dhiirayatho  rajAmsi  \  v.  63,  7 ; 
67,  5;  vii.  61,  4;  x.  132,  2).     They  are  the  guardians  of  the  woe] 
(cikatya  bhutanatya  gopa  \  tUvatya  gopu  i  yityanx  tiivam  pari  piitAa 
ii.  27.  4;  r.  62,  9;  vii.  61,  2;    viii.   25,  1  ;  x.  126,  4).     By  their 
ordinance,  the  great  sky  shines  [yayor  dhtima  dharmanii  rochate  brihat  \ 
x.  6S,  6).     They  discharge  the  rain  (v.  62,  3 ;  aca  vrishfim  irijatatk 
firaddnO,  |   v.  63,    1-3:  dydm  vtrthayatho  tuuratga  mfiyayti). 
godhead  is  beyond  the  ken  of  the  skies,  or  of  rivers  (i.  151,  9  : 
dyueo  ahabhir   not*    4tndfiavo  na  dtcattam  pttnayo    numtivr    mtiyhtm). 
They  (together  with  Aryaman)  are  awful  deities,  haters  and  dUpcllcn 
of  falsehood  <i.   152,   1  ;  vii.  66,  13:   ritattinah   ritojutah  ritdrridAo 
ghoruto  anrita-dmhah).    They  carry  out  their  fixed  purposes,  which 
are  unobstructed  oven  by  the  immortal  gods  (v.  63,  7 ;  v.  69,  4 :  m 
ruth  ilecuA  amrituh  a  minanti  vrat&ni  Mitnl-earunu  dhrucani).     They 
muko  tho  foolish  wis©  (vii.  60,  6,  7 :  nthrtaxaiii  chieh  rhitttyanti  dak- 
;    they  know  heaven  and  eurth  (vii.  CO,  7  :  ims  rfire  animuAii 
prilAiryiii  chikitt<\mxah).     They  took  down  from  heaven  observing  BMO 
as  if  herds  of  cattle  (tadhi  ytl  briAato  dicah  abhi  yHtAeta  paiyatah  |   See 
also  verses  9  and  16,  and  R.V.  vii.  60,  3).     They  ore  described  as 
righteous,  anil  as  promoters  of  religious  rites  (or  truth  or  righteous- 
ness) p7urp<Mc3,  riidcdnA,  p'fojuta,  ritatprisd,  ritatya  gopau  (i.  2,  8; 
i.  23,  5 ;  i.  136,  4  ;   ii.  27,  4 ;    v.  63,  1  ;   v.  65,  2  ;   v.  67,  4  ;  vii.  64, 
2;  vii.  66,  13;   viii.  23,  30;   viii.  25,  8),  as  tho  lords  of  troth  and 
light  [ritmya  jyolufuu  pall  |  i.  23,  5).    They,  with  tho  other  Aditya% 
avengo  sin  and  falsehood  (ehayamdndh  rinihn  |  «h*Uro  anrit+tya  M 
ii.  27,  4  j  vii.  60,  5) :   tho  man  who  neglects  their  worship  is  seised 
with  consumption  (i.  122,  9:  jano  yo  Alitru-earunAv  abkidhruy  apo  n* 
rath  tunv/i  ■Mgjjptflnd  j  staynn  ta  yokthmath  Aridity*  ni  dhiitta). 
They  are  besought  along  with  Aditi  to  remove  tho  trespasses  of  their 
woi-shimon  (ii.  27,   11:   Adilt  Ifitra  Farunota  mriln  yad  re  rmyii 


B 


AS   BErBESENTED    IN    TILE   RIOVEDA. 


<W 


c&aJtrima  lath  chid  Ciijiih) ;  and  along  with  Arynman  to  give  deliverance 
from  evil  (x.  126,  passim)."4 

(6)  Hymn  addnued  to  Mitra  only. 
llitra  alone  is  celebrated  in  i5i.  59.     The  following  arc  some  of  tho 

nmi 

1.  Mitro  janSn  yatayali  brucSno  Mitro  iadh&ra  prithic\m  uia  dy&in  | 
Mitruh  iriihftr  animiiha  'hhi  ehathfe  Mitrdya  havyam  ghritaeaj  juhola  \ 
2.  Pra  h  Milra  marto  a*(u  prayatvdn  yat  te  Aditya  iiktkati  rrattna  | 
rut  Knnyate  na  jiyaU  trd-Qto  nainam  aAho  ainoty  antito  na  dur- 
Ayam  Mitre  nanuuyah  ntievo  rtij'a  tuhhatro  ajanishfa  tsdhdh  |  tatya 
tayam  Mitratya  tumatau  tydma  |  6.  Maham  adityo  n/tmatd  upotaiyo 
yiittiyajijano  grinats  tuittik  |  7.  Abhi  yo  mahind  ditam  Mitro  babhuva 
lajirathnh  \  abhi  iravobhih  prithielm  |  8.  Mitrdya  pancha  yemirt  jamb 
abhiihli-iatsue  $a  d<rdn  ciivin  bibkartli  | 

"  1.  Mitra,  nttering  his  voice,  call*  men  to  activity.'"  Mitra  Mistains 
the  earth  and  the  sky.  Mitra  with  unwinking  eye  beholds  (all)  crca- 
tores.  Offer  to  Mitra  the  oblation  with  butter.  2.  Mitra,  oon  ot 
Adili,  may  tho  mortal  who  worships  thee  with  eocred  rites,  have  food. 
lie  who  ta  protected  by  thee  is  neither  slain  nor  conquered.  Gal 
does  not  reach  him  from  near  or  from  far.  4.  This  Mitra  has  been 
born  adorable,  bt cased,  a  king,  strong,  and  wise.  May  we  abide  in  his 
favour.  5.  This  great  Aditya,  who  rouses  men  to  exertion  (see  v.  1), 
who  i*  favourable  to  his  worshipper,  is  te  be  approached  with  rever- 
ence. 7.  The  vast  Mitra  who  by  his  greatness  transcends  the  sky,  and 
the  earth  by  his  glory.  8.  The  five  classes  of  men  havo  done  homage  te 
Mitra  tho  powerful  helper,  who  sustains  all  the  gods." 

(6)  Pnftuor  Rot&'i  rtnarkt  on  Mitra  and  Voruna. 

In  his  paper  on  "The  highest  gods  of  tho  Arian  races"  (Jonrn.  of 
tho  German  Oriental  Society,  vL  p.  70  f.),  Professor  Roth  has  tho  fol- 

lu  Like  otker  godc,  sod  in  pirticulir  Ind/i,  they  sro  rcprMmUxl  m.  drinking  i)h< 
•o«».j»o»,  i.   1*6,4;  i.  137,  Iff  ;  ir.  41,  8[  »t.  42,  € ;  r.»t,7;  v.  71,3;  v.  72, 

Hiil  «e,  10. 

"•  Wiia  thu  verse  Both  (MiMtntions  of  NirokU,  x.  22,  p.  140)  compsro*  B.V. 
v.  80,  9,  wkero  it  ii  ■aid*  "Ssvitfi.  woo  causes  all  creature*  to  hear  hii  «ound.  and 
infest  IHobl."  Cnsap.  v.  9  of  the  prwent  bran ;  tnd  vii.  J6,  2,  referred  to  by  llotb 
in  Uk  put***  >t>out  to  be  quoted. 


THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY, 


lowing  ingenious  and  interesting  observations  on  Mitra  and  Varuna: 
"  "Within  the  circle  of  the  Adityas  there  subsist*  the  closest  connc 
botween  Mitra  and  Varuna,  who  are  invoked  more  frequently  together 
than  Varuna  is  invoked  singly.  Wo  find  only  one  hymn  in  which 
Mitra  is  invoked  by  himself  (iii.  69).  The  fact  that  this  dual  invo- 
cation is  preserved  in  the  tfend  A  vesta,  in  regard  to  Ahura  and  Milium, 
though  the  position  of  both  has  become  entirely  altered,  and  Mithra  is 
not  even  reckoned  among  tho  Amsbaspands, — this  fact  proves  how 
clow  the  ancient  connection  of  the  two  was,  when  it  has  been  main- 
tained even  after  the  reason  for  it  bad  ceased. The  essential 

character  of  the  two  gods,  as  distinguished  from  one  another,  is  nowhere 
distinctly  expressed  in  the  hymns,  and  was  in  fact  originally  one  which 
could  not  bo  defined  with  intellectual  precision.  But  tbo  stago  of 
religious  culture  which  lies  before  us  in  the  Kig-veda,  enables  as 
distinguish  this  difference  as  one  already  existing,  viz.,  that  Mitra 
the  celestial  light  in  its  manifestation  by  day,  while  Vanins,  thoug 
tho  lord  of  light  and  of  all  time,  yet  rules  especially  over  the  ni| 
hcavrn.  A  hymn  of  Vasishtha  (  vii.  36, 2)  says :  '  Ono  of  you  (Varuna) 
is  the  lord,  and  unassailable  guide,  and  he  who  is  called  Mitra,  (mi  th< 
friend)  calls  men  to  activity '  (ino  cdm  anyah  padavlr  adabdhe  jamtm  rhn 
Mitro  yotali  fouciinah).  Hero  so  much  at  least  is  declared  (and  tbo 
same  thing  ia  expressed  in  nearly  the  rame  words  in  other  places),  that 
the  light  of  day,  which  awakenB  life,  and  brings  joy  and  activity  into 
the  world,  is  the  narrower  sphere  of  Mitro's  power;  though,  bra 
Varuna  ia  not  thereby  relegated  to  the  night  alone,  for  he  continues  to 
bo  the  lord  and  the  first. 

"  Though  therefore  such  representations  as  are  expressed  in  Indian 
exegesis,  {as  for  instance,  when  Bi)F*Qa  says  on  It.V.  vii.  87,  1,  that 
Varuna  is  the  setting  sun),  are  far  too  narrow  and  nni-.-kided,  they  still 
contain  some  truth ;  and  we  may  guess  by  what  process  they  are  to  be 
developed.  If  Varuna  is,  as  his  name  shews,  that  one  among  tin 
Adityas  whose  scat  and  sphere  of  authority  is  the  bright  heaven,  in 
whose  bosom  is  embraced  u  11  that  lives,  and  therefore  also  the  remotest 
boundary,  beyond  which  human  thought  seeks  nothing  further,  then  is 
ho  also  one  who  can  scarcely  bo  attained  either  by  tho  eye  or  by  the 
imagination.  By  day  the  power  of  vision  cannot  discover  this  remotest 
limit,  the  bright  heaven  presents  to  it  no  resting  place.     But  at  night 


AS    REPRESENTED    IX    TUB    P.ICVF.DA. 


71 


this  Tcil  of  the  world,  in  which  Varuna  is  enthroned,  appears  to 
approach  nearer,  and  becomes  perceptiblo,  for  the  eye  finds  n  limit. 
Varuna  is  closer  to  men.  Besides,  the  other  divine  forms  which,  in 
the  clouds,  the  atmosphere,  the  rays  of  light,  filled  the  spneo  between 
the  earth  and  yonder  immeasurable  outermost  sphere,  have  disap- 
peared :  no  other  god  now  stands  between  Yururja  and  the  mortal  who 
gases  at  him." 

(7)  Tht  Indian  Bfilra  and  the  Zoroattrian  Mithra. 

Whatever  may  be  tho  the  success  of  the  attempts  made  to  identify 
any  other  of  the  Indian  and  Iranian  gods  with  one  another,  there  can 
at  least  be  no  doubt,  from  tho  correspondence  of  the  two  names,  that 
tbo  Vodic  Mitra  and  the  Mithra  of  tho  Zend  Areata  wore  originally  the 
same  deity.  Accordingly,  tho  lute  Dr.  F.  Windischmnnn,  in  his  Dis- 
sertation on  the  Persian  Mithra,1"  regards  it  as  established  that  this 
god  was  known,  and  common,  to  the  old  Ariau  race  before  the  separa- 
tion of  its  Iranian  from  its  Indian  branch,  though  the  conception  of 
his  character  was  subsequently  modified  by  Zoroostriao  ideas.  That 
Mithra  was  worshipped  in  Persia  in  nnd  previous  to  the  age  of 
dotas,  U  proved,  as  Windischmnnn  remarks,  by  the  common  use  of 
such  names  as  Mitxadates  and  Mitrobtttcs.  Herodotus  himself  (L  131) 
•peaks  of  Mitra,  not  as  a  god,  but  as  a  goddess  ('E»^u>urf^ica«  81  col  -rp 

Ctpmig   9kir,   »«pi    T*  *Affcrup!o>r  naBirrir    xai    'Apo/tfwv     Ka\Vou<7»    W  'A<r<ri?<*t 

rV  'Afftttr^  «<Xtrra,  Afifi^  *i  'AA.TTB,  rty»rw  li  MUfa,.  flee  Rawlinson's 
Bote,  in  loco,  in  his  translation  of  Herodotus).  But  Xenopbon  (Cyrop. 
viii.  5,  53 ;  (Bo.  ir.  21),  and  Plutarch  (Artaar..  4,  and  Alexand.  SO) 
describes  tho  Persians  aa  swearing  by  the  god  Mitra.  And  Plutarch, 
in  his  treatise  on  Isis  and  Osiris,  chap.  slvi.  tells  us  that  Zoroaster 
conceived  of  Mithra  as  standing  intermediate  between  tho  deities 
Oromazcs,  the  representative  of  light,  and  Areimanius,  the  representa- 
tive of  darkness  and  ignorance."'  It  is  unnecessary  to  say  anything 
farther  hero  of  the  Persian  Mithra,  the  eventual  introduction  of  whose 
worship  into  the  West  ia  matter  of  history. 

■m  Milirs,  cu  Bdtrag  mr  Mvtbwiftwcbirtilc  d»  Orient*,  ia  the  AbhawDsagta 
fur  die  Knruk  do  Morrmlanilo,  Iaiju'ir,  1S57.    Sue  pp.  64  ft*. 

"'  lUd,  p.  60.    This  psmagc  is  alio  quotsj  ia  sU   -nd  rsl  of  tkii  work.  D.  471. 


n 


I3DL15  GODS    CE.VE&.VLLT. 


(8)  I*  On  amy  kuUrimlt 


Tarmma  ami  Ah*ra  JfosoV 


Varuna  also,  in  the  ajiairp  of  certain  writers,  is  fnmwotwl,  at  least 
indirectly,  with  the  Ahura  Muds  of  the  old  Fenian  mythology ;  and 
in  support  of  this  it  any  W  aDeged,— (I)  that  the  name  of  Aian,  the 
being,  k  frequently  applied  to  Tmw,  as  an  epithet ;  (2)  that 
tba  class  of  Indian  gede  called  Adirraa,  of  whom  Varuna  ia  the  moat 
distinguished,  bean  a  certain  analogy  to  the  Aaahaapasds  of  the  Zend 
mythology,  of  whom  Ahnxm  Mania  ia  the  highest ;  and  (S)  that  a  dooa 
connection  exists  between  Varuna  and  Ultra,  jnat  as,  according  to  Pro- 
feasor  Both  (see  above),  Ahura  and  alithra  are  frequently  associated  in 
the  Zeodaveata,  thongh  the  poaitian  of  the  two  has  otherwise  becocao 
altered,  and  Mithra  ia  not  even  reckoned  among  the  Amshaspand*. 
Other  scholars,  however,  think  that  there  b  not  sufficient  proof  of 
Varans  and  Ahora  Mazda  being  connected  with  one  another. 

I  shall  state  the  opinion  of  riufcann  Both  in  regard  to  the  connec- 
tion of  Varans  with  Ahora  Maxda  more  fully  in  the  next  Section, 
where  reference  will  be  made  to  the  aame  writer's  views  regarding  the 
relation  of  India  to  Varuna. 


Wr* 


wttatia 


ertn  ia  the  Riy-tti*. 


Though  Varuna  ia  not  generally  regarded  in  the  Rig-veda  aa  the 
god  of  the  ocean,  he  is  yet  in  the  following  pitwigea  connected  with 
the  dement  of  water,  both  in  the  atmosphere  and  on  the  earth,  in  such 
a  way  aa  may  have  led  to  the  conception  of  his  character  and  functions 
which  is  fully  established  in  the  later  mythology. 

i.  101,  H.  DitC  ytmti  ilmrmlo  Mumya  Aynir  ayaSt  Vsta  antart'Jt- 
$ktma  y«l/i  |  Mkir  tit*  r*r**ak  aammiraw  pukmGm  iekkantak  iaruak 
ntpMak  |  "  Desiring  yon,  ye  eons  of  strength,  the  Maruts  proceed 
lgfa  tlio  sky,  Agni  along  tho  earth,  this  Vita  (wind)  through  the 
atmosphere,  and  Varuna  along  tho  waters,  the  ocean"  {adbhih  ana* 
rfr-.A).1" 

mi  It),  a.  Yak  dae  eVryd*  *ta  rd  tratamti  liamitrimak  uta  ed  yak 
$rayat{,ak  |  asamrfrdrlAd*  yd*  imtkayah  jNlMhti  Uk  ,lpo  oVrJr  ika 
uulm  aramlu  |  3.  1  .l*d*  rt\j*  lamas  yii  madly*  tatytoriU  autpaiyan 

"•  »*•  BsUsatcn  ia  Or.  art  Ootid.  3,  467. 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIO-VEDA. 


73 


jan&nSm  \  wtadhuiehutah  itUknynk — |  4.  YtUu  rtija  Varuno  j/Stu  Scmo 
*ik*  tUvah  yrJiM  Hrjtim  madanti  \  VaUvUnaro  yiim  Agnih  pravitkfn*  tdh 
cpmk — I1*  "May  tho  waters  which  arc  celestial,  and  those  which  flow, 
those  for  which  channels  arc  dug,  and  those  which  arc  self-produced, 
those  which  arc  proceeding  to  the  ocean  and  arc  bright  and  purifying, 
preserve  me !  3.  Muy  those  (waters)  in  tho  midst  of  which  Ling  Varuna 
goes,  beholding  the  truth  and  falsehood  of  men,  which  drop  sweetness. 
and  are  bright  and  purifying,  preserve  mc !  4.  Huy  those  waters  in 
which  Varuna,  Soma,  and  all  the  gods  are  exhilarated  by  food,  into 
which  Agni  VaUvdunra  has  ontered,"  etc.  etc. 

viL  84,  2.  A  rtljdnd  mahah  ritumju  tjopd  tinilhuptili  tahalriyd  ydtam 
arrak  |  ifuA  no  Jfitnlrarunii  ula  vfiihfim  atadirah  uuatafii  jlradtlnQ  |"° 
"  Mitra  and  Varuna,  ye  two  kings,  protectors  of  the  great  ceremonial, 
strong  lords  of  the  sea  (or  of  rivers)  come  hither;  send  us  food  and  rain 
from  the  sky,"  eto. 

In  tho  second  of  these  text.*,  vii.  46,  3,  the  waters,  in  tho  midst  of 
which  Varuna  is  said  to  more,  "beholding  tho  truth  and  falsehood  of 
men,"  seem  to  be  rather  aerial  than  oceanic,  as  tho  former,  from  their 
position  above  tho  earth,  would  appear  to  afford  to  tho  god  (when  an- 
thropomorphically  regarded)  a  more  convenient  post  of  observatiuu 
than  the  latter.  And  in  vii.  64,  2,  the  epithet  rimttttpati,  "lords  of 
the  sea,"  (or  "of  rivers,"  nad<j<lk  ptlayiUirau,  Sayan*),  is  applied  net 
only  to  Varuna  but  to  Mitra  also,  who  is  not,  that  I  am  awaro  of,  ever 
connected  with  the  sea,  oven  in  later  mythology.  If  we  add  to  this, 
that  these  two  gods  are  here  solicited  to  scud  food  and  rain  from  the 
sky,  it  may  result  that  they  are  called  lindkupatt,  as  supplying  the 
aerial  waters  by  which  terrestrial  streams  are  filled.  On  the  other 
hand  the  2nd  verse  of  tho  hymn  just  quoted,  vii.  49,  2,  with  which 
however  Varuna  is  not  directly  connected,  must  bo  understood  (as 
Professor  Mullcr  remarks,  Tronsl.  of  R.V.  i.  p.  46)  of  terrestrial  waters. 
Though,  as  we  have  seen  above,  Suyarja  does  not  generally  stylo 
Varuna  the  god  of  the  sea,  but,  in  conformity  with  older  conceptions, 
the  deity  who  presides  over  the  night,  he  docs,  in  his  explanation  of 


'*  8m  Pwf.  Mullsr*i  rrasrki  on  the  ward  mmiu/i-s,  Trans,  of  R.V.  i.  44  S. 
wticrt  tliM  »«*»«  U  quoted  ami  tr»n»Ut«l. 

US  Tsill.  S.  fL  4,  3,  3,  mjs:  JtUrarmru^u  rat  vjmm  itttSmu  |  •'Uitrs  and 
Vwua*  ore  tho  k*icr»  of  the  vstcrs." 


T4 


THK    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY. 


K.V.  L  161,  14,  and  viii.  58,  12,  call  him  the  jaidbAimdnl  dtcah,  "  the 
deity  prodding  over  tho  waters." 

In  viii.  41,8,  Vuruno  appcura  to  be  called  a  hidden  ocean  {samudrt 
apltXyai). 

viii.  .'>«,  12.  Sudeto  asi  Varum  yatya  tt  tayta  tindhavah  \  anuhhm- 
ranii  tdkudam  tirmyam  twhiram  i'r«i  |  "  Tlmn  art  a  glorious  god, 
Vara ij  a,  into  whose  jaws  the  seven  rivers  flow,  as  into  a  surging 
abyss."  ■ 

Varuna  is  also  connected  with  tho  soa  or  with  the  rivers,  which 
he  is  auid  to  inhabit,  as  soma  (tho  plant)  does  tho  woods,  in  ix.  90,  2 
(Mud  ratdno  Vuruno  na  tmdhiin);  and  in  Vflj.  Sanh.  x.  7,  it  is  said 
that  "  Varutja,  the  child  of  the  waters,  mude  his  abode  within  tho 
most  motherly  waters  as  in  his  home  "  {Pattyutu  ehakrt  Varunak  tmd- 
hatlham  apiim  Mur  m/itritam<Uu  antah).  Seo  also  tho  third  vera©  of 
tho  sixteenth  hymn  of  tho  A.V.  quoted  above. 

In  tho  following  text*  of  tho  Athatra-vcda,  Varuna  It  connected 
with  tho  waters: 

A.V.  iii.  3,  3.  Adbhyat  tva  rtij'd  Varum  hvayatu  somas  tva  hvayatu 
panatthhyah  \  "  May  king  Vnrutjn  call  thee  from  the  waters,  and  Soma 
from  the  mountains." 

iv.  16,  12.  Apo  nuhinchann  aturak  pita  nah  feasant  u  garyardh  ajmm 
Farina  I  "Our  divine  father  shedding  the  waters — may  the  streams 
of  water  breathe,  o  Varuna." 

v.  24,  4.  Varum  'p&m  adhipalih  |  5.  AfitrSearunam  critktydh  adkt- 
patl  |  "  Varuna  the  lord  of  the  waters."  6.  "  Mitra  and  Varuna  the 
lords  of  rain." 

vii.  83.  I.  Ap*u  tt  rujan  Varuna  griko  hiranyayo  mitah  |  "Thy 
golden  bouse,  o  Varuna,  is  in  tho  waters." ,H 


>"  8w  Rnth'ii  UliwtralioiM  of  Ninikta,  pp.  70  f. 

,M  The  TaitU  8.  t.  6,  4,  1,  says:  «/»  Varuwntya  palnayah  atan  |  ffi  Af*ir 
mihyaifl\n\f.'t  |  l,'ih  mmuthavat  |  tatya  rtUk  perapalat  |  taJ  %y/t»  <*AA*Mf  |  fad 
iltil'fam  parapaitt  lad  a*av  «lfav*4  |  iyam  rv*  riritf  mom  tvar^f  |  '*  The  waters  lire 
tliu  wi»es  of  VaittQU.  Agni  regarded  them  with  desire.  He  oonmrtcd  with  then,  Ilw 
wed  ML  It  liiiame  thia  (mrtli).  That  winch  fell  the  second  tine  became  tail 
(sky).  This  (osrth)  is  wVitf,  that  (sky)  is  svaraj."  Tho  TsrOba  Turiij*,  toot.  131 
(Aufrocbt,  CaUl.  p.  &9A)  ■peaks  of  Yarurja  being  universally  kuown  si  tlio  gunnlisn 

of  the  ocean  [tarrt  hkaA  hi  jiirninli  Vnrmah  f  m).    Tho  Sktuula  I'm  is*, 

ecct.  12  (Aufrccbt,  Cst.  p.  60m),  relates  that  Varuna  wui  formerly  the  *on  of  Rsrdssss, 
mid  Ixire  the  numo  of  H'ucliishm.it ,  ami  that  lit  is  uid  to  hare  obtained  tho 
sovereignty  uf  the  sea  by  worshipping  S  lva. 


AS    KEPRESENTED    IX    THE    MG-VEDA. 


75 


(10)  Explanation*  by  Profettor*  Roth  and  WnUrgaord  of  th*  process  by 
vhitA  Varuna  cams  to  bt  regarded  as  ths  nymt  of  ths  sta. 

Professor  ltoth  gives  (in  n  paper  rend  in  October,  1851,  and  published 
in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  ri.  73)  the  following 
statement  of  the  process  by  which  lie  conceives  that  Varuna  came  in 
later  times  to  be  regarded  as  the  god  of  the  sea. 

"The  hymns  of  the  Voda  giro  already  indications  of  this  develop- 
ment, since  Varuna  is  in  one  place  brought  into  the  same  conm | -tii>ii 
with  the  wares  of  the  sea,  as  Storm  aud  Wind  are  with  the  atmosphere 
and  the  heaven,  and  as  Agni  is  with  the  earth  (i.  161,  H,  translated 
above),  and  it  is  elsewhere  said  of  him  that  he  sinks  into  tho  sea  (vii. 
HI,  6),  while  in  another  passage  the  rivers  are  described  ns  streaming 
toward*  him  (viii.  58,  12).  When,  on  the  one  hand,  tho  conception  of 
Varuna  as  the  all-embracing  heaven  had  been  established,  and,  on  tho 
ether  hand,  the  observation  of  the  rivers  flowing  towards  the  ends  of 
the  earth  and  to  the  «ca  bad  led  to  the  conjecture  that  there  existed 
an  ocean  enclosing  the  earth  in  its  bosom,  then  the  way  was  thoroughly 
prepared  for  connecting  Varuna  with  the  ocean.  Another  side  of  the 
affinity  between  the  celestial  and  oceanic  Varuna  may  be  expressed  in 
the  words  of  Alexander  Ton  Humboldt,  which  perfectly  coincide  with 
the  ancient  Indian  view  :  '  The  two  envelopments  of  tho  solid  surface 
of  our  planet,  viz.,  tho  aqueous  and  tho  atmospheric,  offer  many 
analogies  to  each  other,  in  their  mobility,  in  the  phenomena  of  their 
temperature,  and  in  tho  fact  that  their  parte  admit  of  being  displaced  : 
the  depth  both  of  the  ocean  and  of  the  atmosphere  U  unknown  to  us.' " 

On  the  samo  subject  Professor  Westcrgaard  remarks  (in  a  paper 
originally  published  in  1 852,  and  translated  by  Professor  Spiegel  from 
the  Danish,  and  published  in  Weber's  Indischc  Studien,  vol.  iii.)  : 
"The  Zend  word  V arena  corresponds  also  etymologically,  on  the  one 
bond,  to  the  Greek  ovpavos,  and,  on  tho  other,  to  tho  Indian  Varuna, 
a  name  which  in  the  Valas  is  assigned  to  the  god  who  reigns  in  the 
furthest  regions  of  tho  heaven,  where  air  and  sea  are,  as  it  ward 
blended;  on  which  account  he  has,  in  the  later  Indian  mythology, 
become  god  of  tho  boo,  whilst  in  tho  Vodas  ho  appears  Erst  as  the 
mystic  lord  of  tho  evening  and  tho  night."  And  ho  adds:  "Fosaibly 
the  Iranian  Varcna,  in  opposition  to  Yimaa  home  on  tho  remotest 


7* 


TOTS   IXDIA5    OODS    GEXKULLY, 


moantarn*  of  the  east,  denotes,  originally,  the  distant  weaten 
of  the  heaven  and  the  air,  where,  ercrj  evening,  the  m  and  right 
eaneeal  themselves,  and  k>  much  the  ntber  as  the  epithet  Vamtya, 
derived  from  Tirana,  a  in  the  Zenda-vesta  applied  only  to  the 
spirits  of  darkness  "  (p.  415  L). 

(11)  CWrsspendsises  o/  FarwM  irir*  th  Greek  Oupavos. 

Wc  have  already  seen  that  Vororya  corresponds  in  name  to  the 
Oopavw:  of  the  Greeks.  "Uranos,"  aa  Professor  Miillcr  observes,1- 
"  in  the  language  of  Hesiod,  is  used  a*  a  name  for  the  sky ;  he  »  made 
or  born  that  he  should  *bo  a  firm  place  for  the  blessed  gods.'  "*  It  is 
said  twice  that  Uranos  covers  everything  (r.  127),  and  that  when  be 
brings  the  night,  he  is  stretched  oat  everywhere,  embracing  the  earth.1* 
This  sounds  almost  as  if  the  Greek  tnythe  had  still  preserved  a  reeol- 
i  of  the  etymological  power  of  Uranos.  For  Uranos  is  in  the 
Sanskrit  Vanuja,  and  is  derived  from  a  root,  Var,  to  cover;  Varans 
being  in  the  Veda  also  a  name  of  the  firmament,  but  especially  con- 
nected with  the  night,  and  opposed  to  Mitra,  the  day." 

The  parallel  between  the  Greek  Uranos  and  the  Indian  Varans  does 
not,  as  we  have  already  seen,  bold  in  all  points.  There  is  not  in  the 
Vcdic  mythology  sny  spec  Jul  rclution  between  Varnna  and  Frithivi,  ths 
Earth,  as  husband  and  wife,  as  there  is  between  Uranos  and  Gaia  in  the 
tbeogooy  of  Hesiod ;  nor  is  Varurja  represented  in  the  Veda,  m  Uranos 
is  by  the  Greek  poet,  as  the  progenitor  of  Dyaus  (Zens),  except  in  the 
J  way  in  which  he  is  said  to  have  formed  and  to  preserve  heaven 
nod  earth. 


"*  Oxford  Emits  tor  18.M,  p.  41 ;  Chip*,  ii.  Be. 

"'  11  »iad  Tr.r.»g.  12$:— 

Tom  8/  toi  wpirw  pi*  iylvaro  lav*  iawrp 
Ovparbr  lumpoirf,  Ira  iur  rtfi  rdrra  koAc'ittvi, 
'0<f>|/  «I»i  noJtdfHaai  tiui$  ftot  airif'aAci  dti. 

Conipsre  Ait.  llr.  iv.  If,  qunicd  abnte. 

■»»  Ibid,  v.  178:— 

'HAS.  it  Kim'  Jt^w  pafSB  Ovpaifit,  i^  Si  r»fp 
'\pt\pmr  •piAirriroi  /«<Vx«TS  Kai  p  boriofat 

DaVrp. 


AS  IlErBESENTED  IX  TUE  RIG-VEDA. 


m 


(12)  Faruna,  at  npre$mttd  in  Iht  hymns, — a  metrical  thick. 

Lo,  reared  of  old  by  hand*  divine, 

High  towers  ia  heaven  a  palace  fait ; 

Its  roof  a  tliousand  columns  bear ; 
A  tliousand  portals  round  it  shine. 

Within,  enthroned  in  godlike  state, 
Sits  Vuruna  in  golden  el" 
To  work  his  •will,  with  reverent  mien, 

liis  angel  hosts  around  him  wait. 

When  I  beheld  this  vision  bright, 

I  deemed  the  god  was  clad  in  flame, — 
8uoh  radiance  from  his  presence  came, 

And  overpowered  my  aching  eight. 

Each  mora,  when  Uahaa  starts  from  sleep, 

He  mounts  his  oar,  which  gleams  with  gold  : 
All  worlds  before  him  lio  unrollod, 

Aa  o'er  the  sky  bis  coursers  sweep. 

lie,  righteous  lord,  the  sooptre  wields, 

Supreme,  of  universal  sway, 

Ilia  law  both  men  and  gods  obey; 
To  bis  decree  the  haughtiest  yields. 

lie  spread  the  earth  and  watery  waste ; 

lie  reared  the  sky  ;  he  bade  the  sun 

His  shining  circuit  daily  run  ; 
In  him  the  worlds  are  all  embraced. 

By  his  decree  the  radiant  moon 

Moves  through  the  nightly  aky  serenr, 
And  planets  sparkle  round  their  ijueeri ; — * 

Itut  whither  have  they  Hid  tit  noon  t 

'  to  IndiiD  mythology  the  moon  i*  o  (futL  not  a  goddess;  but  1  har<  in  tlu*  lii 
•llirml  to  i  n.al  phraseology. 


76o  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GBXERALLT, 

The  rivers  flow  at  his  behest, 

And  yet — admire  his  wondrous  skill— 
Tho  ocean-bed  they  cannot  fill, 

Although  their  current*  never  rest. 

The  path  of  ships  across  the  sea, 

The  soaring  eagle's  flight,  he  knows,  f 
Tho  course  of  every  wind  that  blows, 

And  ail  that  was  or  is  to  be. 

Descending,  ceaseless,  from  the  skies, 
His  angels  glide  this  world  arournl  ; 
As  far  as  earth's  remotest  bound, 

All-scanning,  range  their  thousand  eyes. 

This  mighty  lord  who  rules  on  high. 

Though  closely  veiled  from  mortal  gaze, 
All  men's  most  secret  acts  surveys ; 

Ho,  ever  far,  is  ever  nigh. 

Two  think  they  are  not  overheard 
Who  ait  and  plot,  as  if  alone ; 
Their  fancied  secrets  all  arc  known, 

Unseen,  tho  god  is  there,  a  third. 

Whoe'er  should  think  hi*  way  to  wing, 
And  lurk,  unknown,  beyond  the  sky, 
Yet  conld  not  there  elude  tho  eye 

And  grasp  of  Vurnrjn,  tho  King. 

For  all  within  the  vast  expanse 

Of  air  that  human  and  earth  divides, 
Wuute'or  above  tho  heaven  ubides, 

Lies  open  to  his  piercing  glance. 


t  Ompar*  Frorcrf*,  x«.  IS:  "  Th«r»  h«  thrss  thing*  which  are  loo  ' 
for  roo;  yea,  four  which  I  know  not:  10.  Tho  w»y  of  an  tajcle  in  the  sir;  the  w»y 
jf  ■  Mtpcut  upon  »  rvtk;  tko  way  of  a  ship  in  the  audit  of  l*t  »ta;  and  tba  way  of 
i  nun  with  u  maid." 


AS  REPRESENTED  IN  THE  RIO-VEDA. 

The  ceaseless  winkings  all  he  scot, 
And  counts,  of  every  mortal's  eyes  : 
Id  vain  to  wick  a  creature  tries, 

Unless  the  god  the  power  decrees. 

To  thoughtful  men  who  truth  discern, 
And  deeply  things  divine  explore, 
The  god  reveals  his  hidden  lore ; 

But  fools  his  secrets  may  not  learn. 

He  markB  the  good  and  ill  within 

The  hearts  of  men — the  false  and  true 
Discerns  with  never-erring  view  : 

He  hates  deceit,  chastises  sin. 

His  viewless  bonds,  than  cords  and  gyros 
More  hard  to  burst,  the  wicked  bind  j 
In  vain,  within  their  foldn  confined, 

To  cast  them  off  the  sinner  strives. 

And  yet  the  god  will  not  refuse 

His  grace  to  one  who  inly  moans, 
When  fetter-bound,  Ids  errors  owns, 

And  lor  forgiveness  meekly  sues. 

But  where  is,  lord,  thy  friendship  now  ? 

Thine  ancient  kindness,  o,  restore ; 

Hay  we,  so  dear  to  thee  of  yore, 
No  longer  dread  thy  frowning  brow. 


76> 


Thiae  ire  we  did  not  madly  brave, 

Nor  break  thy  laws  in  wanton  mood ; 
We  fell,  by  wrath,  dice,  wine,  subdued : 

Forgive  us,  gracious  lord,  and  save. 


764  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY. 

Absolve  us  from  the  guilt,  we  pray, 
Of  all  the  sins  our  fathers  •wrought,  % 
And  sins  which  we  commit  by  thought,  § 

And  speech,  and  act,  from  day  to  day. 

From  dire  disease  preserve  us  free, 
Nat  doom  us  to  the  house  of  clay 
Before  our  shrivelling  frames  decay  : 

A  good  old  age  yet  let  us  see. 

In  vain  shall  hostile  shafts  assail 

The  man  thy  shielding  arm  defends ; 
Secure,  no  wrong  he  apprehends, 

Safe,  as  if  cased  in  iron  mail. 

As  mother  birds  their  pinions  spread 

To  guard  from  harm  their  cowering  brood, 
Do  thou,  o  lord,  most  great  and  good, 

Preserve  from  all  the  ills  we  dread. 


I  See  Exodus,  xx.  5,  Deuteronomy,  v.  9,  and  Esekiel,  xriii.  1  ff. 
,  Big-veda,  x.  37,  12. 


JLS  KEPRKSEXTKD   IX  TIIK  RIO-VEDA. 


77 


SECTION  VI. 


I.VDRA.1" 

According  to  the  Grcok  geographer  Strabo,  tho  Indian*,  as  known  to 
Kim  by  the  report  of  other  writers,  "  worshipped  Jupiter  Pluvius,  the 
river  Ganges,  and  the  gods  of  country.*4*  This  Jupiter  Pluvius  wn*, 
no  doubt,  Indra.  Although  at  the  period  to  which  Strain's  infornatioa 
refers,  this  god,  in  all  probabilty,  no  longer  occupied  the  tame  promi- 
nent position  as  of  old;  ho  was,  as  Professor  Itoth  remarks,"*  tho 
favourite  national  deity  of  the  Aryan  Indians  in  tho  Yedie  age.  Moru 
hymns  arc  dedicated  to  his  honour  than  to  the  praise  of  any  other 
divinity. 

(1)  fflt  origin  and  parent*:  kit  %tif*. 

Although,  however,  his  greatness  is  celebrated  in  tho  most  mn;- 
n ilkent  language,  ho  is  not  regarded  as  an  uncreated  being.  As  I  have 
already  notioed,  he  is  distinctly  spoken  of  in  various  passages  as  being 
bora,  and  as  having  a  father  and  a  mother. 

Thus  it  is  said  of  him  : 

in.  4H,  2.  Taj  jSyalhu*  (ail  ahtr  atys  kdmt  smhh  plyQthitiH  apibo 
firukfMim  \  tarn  U  mala  pari  yutkil  janitrl  mahuh  pilttr  dame  Otmehad 
mgn  |   3.   Upottkdya  miltaram  annum  aiffa  tig  mam  apaigad  abhi  toman* 

•A4I 

"  On  the  day  that  tliou  wast  born,  thou  didst,  from  love  of  it,  drink 
the  mountain-grown  juice  of  the  soma-plout.     Of  old,  the  youthful 


•*•  Strabo,  it.  1.  CO.  p  719,  quoted  by  Lateen.  IndWhc  AltcrthumiinnJr,  ii.Mfl: 
Xtyrtm  S>  •*)  rtwt*\  wmpk  rir  evyipatyitv,  Jri  eiPmnm  pir  thr  ipfyxor  Am  W 
'Irlol,  ««j  T*»  rriyyw  rvraato.  cal  T»*i  tyx-pi*"  ialiiorat. 

>•*  la  aiy  aotocnt  of  Vanirj*  thmi  U  little  of  impartsooo  thit  had  not  bum  pro- 
ruxuly  •aid  by  IWtasor  B<rth ;  but  in  Ihb  d«arriptian  of  ladra  thsro  i»  •  Urf?r 
jollcctwn  Of  particular*  thin  I  hm«  aoticsd  to  bJ»Tt  bttf)  brought  logrctrwrobwnhir*. 

"•  In  bb  Lcxicos,  «.r.  lodrs. 


78 


TILE  INDIAN   OODS   GENERALLY, 


iha 


mother  who  horn  thee,  satiated  thee  with  it  in  the  house  of  thy  mighty 
father.  3.  Approaching  his  mother,  he  desired  sustcaanct ;  he  beheld 
the  sharp-flavoured  soma  on  her  breast." 

Again  in  iv.  17,  4.  Nurlnit  djanitu  monyala  Dyaur  Indraxya 
trapattamo  'bhal  \  yah  Irhjajana  naryafii  lumjram  anapachyutaSt 
M  bhama  |  ....  17.  Kiyat  mid  Indro  ad  hi  tti  mutuh  liyat  pilar 
janitur  yoj'ajclM  |  "Thy  father  wan,  as  tho  Sky  thought,  a  moat  stal- 
wart being ;  the  maker  of  Indra,  ho  who  produced  tho  <v»T«n«;fr| 
thundcrcr,  immovable  as  the  earth, — he  was  a  most  skilful  workman. 
17.  How  much  docs  Indra  regard  hia  mothor,  how  much  tho  fa: 
who  begat  him? "'- 

iv.  18,  1.  Ayam  pmth&h  atutvittsk  punine  yete  dtvih  udajriymU 
tt'he  |  atai  thid  <3  jani*huhf<$  prarriddho  mA  mat/tram  amvyS  patUn 
faf  I  5.  Aradyam  ita  manyamSnu  guh&  Mar  Judram  matd  rirytmt 
nyrithfam  |  at  ha  ud  asUuit  tvayam  atJsath  rasQnah  a  rodattl  <t/»r*M«y 
lOMJ  |  10.  Qp'thfiA  taiilva  tthaviram  taviigum  aniirf/iri'thyim 
rfithabhaih  tumram  Jndram  \  arllhaih  tatiaih  charathilya  wiOt-u  tutyrik 
ijritum  tame  iefiAamSnam  |  11.  Via  mSta  mahitham  anranenad  ami  t>d 
jtihati  putra  dev&h  |  athabratld  cfittram  Indro  hanithyan  talfit  FuAao 
titarain  pi  Iramasva  \  12.  Kat  If  miltaram  ridhaviim  arhakrat  iayutit  l*i 
tvlm  tijighurfuat  eharantam  \  kai  te  dero  adhi  mdrdlfa  <lsld  yat  pidiram 
priiksKinuh  pudagrihya  \ 

"  This  has  been  traversed  as  tho  ancient  path,  through  which  all  the 
gods  wcro  born ;  through  this  let  the  grown  (embryo)  be  produced; 
let  him  nut  vuiuly  cause  hia  mother  to  perish.'*1  5-  Regarding  it  (his 
birth)  as  a  fault,  tho  mother  concealed  Indra,  who  was  full  of  rigour. 
Then  he  himself  arose,  clothed  with  a  robe,  aud  filled  both  worlds  u 
toon  as  he  was  born.  10.  His  mother,  (like)  n  cow,  bore  Indra,  an  un- 
linked calf,  strong,  robust,  unassailable,  vigorous,  and  lusty,  in  order 

"»  Profannr  MulIfT,  T.octurni  ii.  430,  translates  the  first  of  these  vents  thos: 
Dru,  thy  parent,  was  reputed  strong ;  the  maker  of  Indra  was  mighty  in  his  works; 
ho  (who)  begat  tho  heavenly  Indra,  armed  with  tho  thunderbolt,  who  is  immovohlf  ss 
tbo  earth,  from  his  scat : "  and  tho  112th  vent  a»  follows ;  "  Indra  'aornewhat  e*c«ss 
Lis  mother  and  the  father  who  begat  him."  "  Of  tbo  Maruts  also  it  is  said  t.  SO,  6, 
that  Ituitra,  their  father,  was  young  uud  an  excellent  workman  IjmvS  pita  ttfak 
JiuJrah  ulu'im.  The  next  hymn  of  tho  same  M.njdilit,  iv.  18,  mokes  repeated  refenacs 
to  Indra' a  birth  ami  parents. 

00  For  the  Comtnentator'i  explanation  of  this  obscure  hytnn  sec  Frofeasor  Wilson's 
Translation,  noU  1. 


AS    REFRB8EX1T-I)    IN    THE    BlG-YEP.v. 


79 


that  be  might  rang*  abroad,  and  desiring  full  scope  for  himself.  11. 
And  his  mother  affectionately  regarded  her  mighty  eon,  saving,  '  those 
gods  forwike  thee,  my  aon.'  Then  aaid  Indm,  preparing  to  slay  Vrittra, 
'  Friend  tIAqq,  stride  boldly  forward.'  12.  Who  made  thy  mother  a 
widow  ?  Who  sought  to  slay  thoo  lying  or  moving  ?  What  god  stood 
by  thee  in  the  fray  when  thou  didst  crush  thy  fathur,  seizing  him  by 
the  foot?" 

vii.  20,  5.  FfiihS  jajUna  xjUhnnam  rantiya  Ian  u  chin  narl  t\ary»m 
sarins  |  "A  rigorous  (god)  begot  him,  a  rigorous  (son)  for  the  battle: 
•  heroic  female  (nurt)  brought  him  forth,  a  heroic  (son),"  etc. 
Again,  vii.  98,  3.  JajnAtut  A  tomaih  aahntt  ptipnlha  pra  te  nuifu 
lahim&ium  urllch/%  |  "Whon  born,  thou  didst  drink  the  som.v 
juiee  to  (gain)  atrcngth  :  thy  mother  declared  thy  greatness.'' 
X.  73,  1.  Junii/if/iiik  ugrah  taluis*  turiiyn  tnnndrah  yithfho  bahuld- 
bhimAnah  |  acardhaim  Iniram  Marulai  chid  attra  mAlA  yad  vlraik 
dadhanad  dhanuhfhd  |  "Thou  wast  born  fierce  to  exercise  impetnoua 
atrcngth ;  exulting,  fiery,  full  of  confidence.  The  Marti ts  here  aug- 
mented Indra  when  his  opulent  mother  brought  forth  tho  hero." 
x.  120,  1.  Tad  id  d*a  bhucunahu  jytihfhaih  yato  jajnt  vyra*  tcctha- 
nrtmmtk  \  "  That  was  the  highest  (being)  in  the  world  from  which  this 
fierce  and  impctuoue  (god)  was  born,"  eto.  x.  13-1,  1.  Ubkt  yad  India 
roda>\  Apuprath*  lutuih  ins  |  mahantam  ha  mahlnaiii  tamrijam  chartha- 
nImum  dexl  jdMitrl  ajij,inad  hhudrH  janitri  afljamtt  |  "When  tl, 
Indra,  didst  fill  the  two  worlds  like  the  Dawn,  a  dirine  mother 
bore  thee,  a  gracious  mother  bore  thee,  tho  great  monarch  of  tho 
greet  people"  (the  gods?).  In  x.  101,  12,  as  we  here  already  seen, 
ho  is  called  tho  son  of  Nisht,igrT.  This  word,  as  I  have  already 
noticed,  p.  1 3,  note  9,  ia  treated  by  the  commentator  as  a  synonym  of 
Aditi ;  but  though  Indra  ia  always  regarded  as  an  Aditya  in  the  later 
mythology,  and  is  even  addressed  in  that  character,  along  with  Yarun  i. 
in  vii.  85,  4  (pah  HdilyA  iaratu  rum  namauun),  he  ia  not  commonly 
described  na  su>:h  in  other  porta  of  the  Rig-veda."' 

In  the  A.Y.  iii.  10,  12,  we  mid:  L'buhlalu  iapa»u  topyamunfi  jajutia 
jfmrbkmm  mahim&tum  Indrim  |  Una  dnuh  athahantu  inirtin  haniu  datyi- 
ndm  abhatat  S"arhipalth  |  "  Kkishtaka,  practising  MMt«B  ftaTOTTi  bore 

1,1   h  li.*  appctn  to  he  identified  with  Mfinu  anil  Sftrvi,  and  in  riii.  82, 

1,  i,  and  ».  8!>,  2,  wilL  Surja.     la  ii.  50,  I,  be  receive*  the  epithet  of  flrrftrt 


80 


TTIE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 


as  a  child  tic  glorious   India.      Ry  him   the   goda  conquered 
enemies;  the  lord  of  Sachi  (or  of  might)  became  the  slayer  of  the 
Dosyus." 

In  the  next  verso  Ekaahtaka  is  called  the  mother  of  Soma,  as  well  as 
of  Indra,  and  the  daughter  of  PrajapotL  In  A.V.  vi.  38,  the  mother  of 
Indra  is  invoked,  but  her  name  is  not  Riven.  According  to  the  II.  Lh. 
Adip.  313G,  InJra  is  one  of  the  sona  of  Knayupa  and  Dokshayanl,  i.e. 
tin  ii;i ii -liter  of  Dakuha,  or  Aditi.  See  also  viii.  15,  4,  5;  viii.  66,  1, 
2,  which  will  be  quoted  further  on.  In  viii.  58,  4,  ho  ia  called 
»on  of  truth  ($(l»um  mlytuya). 

In  another  placo  {iii.  49,  1)  he  is  said  to  hate  been  produced  by  | 
K'»la,  as  a  destroyer  of  enemies  (ghanam  vritrauam  jamyanta  <Urih  | 
Soo  also  ii.  IS,  5,  ond  iii.  St,  8). 

In  the  Purusliu  Sukta  (It.  V.  x.  90,  13)  Indra  is  said  to  have  sprung, 
along  with  Agni,  from  the  mouth  of  Purushs  [mukfuid  Imirai  rka 
Agnxi  cha) ;  and  he  is  one  of  several  goda  said,  in  ix.  96, 5  (Soma}  .  .  . 
tmiU  Indrsuya),  to  have  been  generated  by  Soma.  In  one  of  the 
Litest  hymns  (x.  107,  1)  he  is  declared  to  haTe  conquered  heaven  by 
austerity  (tvam  tapnh  paritapya  ajayah  »vah).'M 

'"  In  one  »f  the  »bort  stories  about  tbo  Rods,  of  which  it  sad  (ha  other  BnUnsBBts 
are  full,  the  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  1,  6,  14,  tars  of  IiiJiu:  5PiA  tut  «f«A  JVa/ajMtsr  , 
4t*tt&h  atfijyanta  Aijnxr  Indroh  iS"»omA  I"araimtii(ki  prajiipafyall  |  1$.  Tii»,  uXt- 
trt'njuikc,  jajnirt  \  tuh  twite  narlytti  pattnn  pariipaiyai  from  tvmya  ojnuAoA  partm 
fitr&rtuikKyutf  |  14.  "Those  p>d«  wore  cmaUd  from  Prajripsti,  vi*.  Aj»ni.  Indra, 
Koms,  tind  iVumenhthiu  IV kjlf  ■ '  y  > .  15.  These  were  born  with  a  life  of  a  thousand 
(yean),  Jiut  si  a  man  caa  look  n cross  to  the  other  bank  of  a  rirer,  they  looked 
across  to  tbc  end  of  their  life  "  Again  the  Taitt.  Dr.  ii.  2,  3,  J,  says  of  Imtn: 
J'ta/tpulir  drntiNrti/i  aijiintt  |  m  Jiutram  api  no  atfi/ata  \  ram  dec&h  airaswma 
"  JnrfMoi  ttn  jtiHaya"  Hi  I  te.  'bnwid  "  i/nthi  'kaili  lyuihni/liu  IspmM  'ifiitii 
fi-om  /i/i/i  in.  j  ■  ■:<yaiHr,tm "  Ui  |  te  t«jo  'lapynta  |  te  almuxnn  Ittdr+m  *f*. 
•'y.i«  |  (am  ubrutan  "jiyarr*  "  Hi  |  tn  '/irtv'il  "  Aim  MUfiiJAtyam  ailti  >#«wA- 
ft"  Hi  |    •'  filun    iami*tHXi/t-i  prajih  pa/in   imtn   loldn  "    ify  airttftt    |    itftdt    | 

"  l'nij«p:i!i  crnatrcl  jtikIii  nud  Aiuras.  bat  he  did  not  also  create  Indira.  The 
gods  said  to  him:  'Create  lodra  for  us.'  Hi'  replied:  'As  I  have  created 
yon  rhmnjrb  susterc- fervour  (topai),  so  do  you  generate  Indra.'  They  practised 
austare-fi'rvoar  They  ssw  Indra  within  thom«elvo«.  Thr  y  wiid  to  him.  •  Be 
born.'  lis  said,  'To  what  lot  shall  I  be  born  : '  They  uiid  to  him.  'To  ths 
seasons,  the  yean,  the  creatures,  the  beiuU,  Ihcsu  worlds, '  tie.  The  ssiui'  Ilr . 
ii.  2, 10,  1,  tells  ns  that  Prajfipati  created  Indra  lost  of  thr  (rods,  and  sent  him  to  be 
tbo  lord  of  thr  other  deities.  The  (rods  said  to  him.  •  Who  art  tboa  ? '  '  We  are 
•ufwnor  to  thee.'  He  reported  their  reply  to  Prajfipali,  and  asked  for  the  splendour 
which  tviidnl  iii  I'rajipati,  ia  order  that  he  might  become  the  chief  of  the  gods,  etc" 


A8    REP REVESTED    IN*   TI1E   MG.TEDA, 


81 


In  vi.  59,  2,  Indra  and  Agni,  as  wo  huvi  already  seen,  p.  14,  are  said 
to  be  twin  bntiicn,  luvin::  the  tame  fuller,  nod  whoso  mothers  nre,  die 

i  h    »       of  tbii  i*  noi  rwji  avj  b  at,  union 

Imply  mean  that  tlic  mothers  arvtlitlVi  .•'■'»,  I ,  his  brut] 

■  Ulna  are  mentioned  (w/  atUibhmlh  Prilhiclm  Dtj&m  abhlke  bhrutuh 

'•A*  htagluiran  titnuk&nch).    Heaven  and  Karth  seem  to  bo  intern] 
1(  eo.iv!:  r  father?     la  vi.  55,  5,  Pushaa  is  colled    Iiidn's 

"dor  {hhr&i&  Indra'ya). 

D  as  on  infant  India  i'  said  to  have  manif.-*?c<l  hb  warlike  ten- 
dencies.   "  As  soon  a*  lie  was  born,  the  slayer  of  Vrittra  (Indrn)  rtu- 
hia  arrow,  and  asko<l  his  mother,  '  Who  are  they  that  are  iviiawni-d  as 
fierce  warriors?'"    ;viii.  1/i,  1.  >~i  Imdnfn  tftttrthi  dad' jntak  firttUnul 
ri  ■  Is  ngrfih  ke  ha  ijinvirt  |  viii.  66,  1.  Jajndno  hi  mlnkralur 

si'  i  'i  mularan  j  Ac  qprdj  £*  Aa  irinrire  |).     His  worshipper 

•ays  of  him:  I,  103,  8.  Alatrur  Indra  jamuhil  nanud  ati  |  "Thou. 
Imlra,  ait  of  old  by  nature  without  an  cm  my."  Compare  i.  176,  1. 
S'atrum  anti  na  eindari  |  x.  138,  2.  Aiairvr  In/Ira  jajnuht). 

In  i.  82,  5,  6,  India's  wife  is  alluded  to.  5.  Teiia  jtiyuui  uj>a  jiriyiim 
mwUano  D'lki  |  6.  Sum  h  fulni/il  amathtli  |  "Uo  cxhilui.i'i -I  L«  thy 
dcar  wit  exhilarated  with  thy  wife." 

awUm   place  iii.  53,  4  fT.,  the  poet  describes  the  perplexity  lie 
icie*  Indrn  most  foci  in  choo;-ing  between  the  attractions  of  homo. 
those  his  worshippers  have  to  offer  in  tlio  way  of  Boaia-libniions. 

TiiyA  id  tttt/im  tmtgLuan  id  id  u  yon  it  lad  it  ttQ  yuktah  harayo 
rafmntu  |  yndu  L%di)  th<t  tunaeama  toiwm  Agni*  ica  dulo  d/ianrnli  athha  | 

/•.tfti  yuhi  tnayhatann  fl  eha  yaki  Indrn  bhratttr  ubhayatra  U  arlh,i»i  , 
s/atra  retkotyt   brihalo  r.idhriniuU   vimothanam  cAjino  nisabkittya  |    6. 

•  h  tomatn  a-itum  Indra  pra  yuhi  ltil>/unJr  jfiya  turanam  yrihe  It  | 
yatra  iiltfsjJIM  hribnto  nidhtmaA  rimoekamm  riljino  dak*!iin<~nMl  \ 

{J*r*jhjLttf  .j  drrrinam  |  tm*  praKinot  upurtAi  |  ttrihaZt 

</M  "ill  \  lnhidtrvi  uhuctn  "inttfmm  oin*yimiiii  tritl iiryim- 

fttf  •  ■>  'brut  it  "'hat  It  am  ati  rayum  tat  trill  »'rryiiS*»A  «w«V    Hi     .d 

4n*l  oAnrMMii"  i.'i  |  atha  iwi  iJnm  tarSi  rrajapotaii  WnA  :  ../  aimium 

mdilft  |  titJinj'i  it*rar;rf  "rr»7  m.   ,  iv.i)vwA*B  |  ofAa  o*«»  itiihnm  drrnrvim  n4ki. 

i  •  i.ipnre  th*  Tiitlirlya  SanhilJi  vi.  0.  11.  '.>,  wliera 

in  virtnadl  rVa- 

luatiiittod  lo  him.    S«v  aUo  Uo  same  nrk  mi.  .'.  10,  2.     la  aflothtr 

|4aru  vii.  J,  ft,  0,  lie  U  uiil  to  lute  abtahwd  from  FrajSpati  tbe  panrkmUUiaira 

wtji.  he  *u  enabled  to  ovcreonc  the  Ajurns.  of  whom  be  bad  previously 

i  a/rsid,  suil  to  ituiu  prewperiij. 


82 


TIIE   INDIAN    GODS   (BBTI1ALLT, 


4.  "A  wife,  Indrn,  is  one's  home;  the  »  *  man's  dwelling;  there- 
fore let  thy  horses  be  yoked,  and  cany  thee  thither.  But  whenever 
wo  pour  forth  u  libation  of  soma,  then  may  Agni  hasten  to  "»H  thee 
fi.  Depart,  Indra;  come  hither,  lirothcr  Indrn;  in  both  quarters  thou 
bast  inducements.  Whenever  thy  great  A  irfot  halts,  thy  stood  is 
unharnessed.  6.  Depart,  Iadra,  to  thy  homo ;  thoa  hast  drank  the 
soma ;  thoa  hast  a  lovely  wife,  and  pleasure  in  thy  house.  Wbcre- 
erer  thy  great  chariot  holts,  it  is  proper  that  thy  stood  should  be 

ml:.rn.  |  ■■.-.].'' 

In  a  few  passages  (i.  22,  12;  ii.  32,  8;  v.  16,  8  ;  x.  86,  11,  13) 
mention  is  mode  of  a  goddess  IndrfnjI,  who,  from  hor  name,  must  bo 
this  spouse  of  Indra.  In  the  first  three  places  site  is  invoked  together 
with  other  goddesses,  among  whom  we  find  Agnuyl  and  Varurjanl,  the 
wives  of  Agni  and  Vurun.'i.  In  x.  8C,  11,  12,  a  little  more  is  told  r.f 
Indriu'.  Thu*  in  verso  11,  the  speaker  says:  IiuirGnim  am  n&ruku 
tvhhagilm  aham  alravam  \  aaii  atyah  aparaik  chana  jartm  marttii 
pittih  |  "  I  have  hcurd  that  among  all  these  females  IndrnnT  is  tho  most 
fortunnte;  for  her  husband  shall  never  at  nny  future  time  die  of  old 
age.,,lM  The  Aitareya  Brahtnar.a,  iii.  22,  alludes  to  a  wife  of  Indra, 
called  Prasaha  {U  dtxAh  abrwann  iyam  nai  Indraiya  priySjSyH  vAtdti 
l*r&*ahu  nSma).    See  Professor  Haug's  Translation,  p.  194. 

The  S'*tnp.  llr.  xiv.  2,  1,  8,  says:  "  Indnini  is  Indra's  beloved  wife, 
and  she  has  a  head-dress  of  all  forms  "  (/haVusI  La  tat  Ltdratya  prty/i 
palni  |  iary/lh  uthn'uho  viieariipatamah). 


■n  I  mi  unable  to  say  to  whom  tho  ©bacon*  nm*  (6  sad  7)  of  this  hymn  reftr. 
In  Tuilt.  Bt.  ii.  -t,  2,  ",  the  ii  thu*  portcnt-iiuly  deKriVod  :  Intrant  Jrri  iuJA«yii 
tupalni  ud  amino  pati-viiyt  jifaya  |  trinU&i  tunjiik  jayhirum  yyauini  |  ttjxtxlki 
Uilrim  liibkarttt  |  Froftwmr  Wili.r.  linl.  Sluil.  iii.  479,  qiintra  from  tb« 

Ids,  13,  6,  ■  abort  pasaag*.  stating  that  Indra.  was  enamoured  of  a  Dinar?, 
'•  'iliuengfi,  and  that  ho  lived  anion;,'  tho  Aiunu,  taking  tho  form  of  a  festal* 
whin  smong  females,  of  a  mala  among  males;  sad  It  liimaclf,  u  it  wort, 

Mb  .1  bj  Nirriti.  he  rraorud  to  ft  certain  oblation  a*  ■remedy,"  etc.    (JWror- 

flihutt'imtikSamyata  |  M  'euraheackaratttriera  tlrhku ijuinm jmman  jntmtm  \ 
mo  .VirriYi.jrp/jifjA  AM  SMMpStt  |  an  Ham  aiudrii-mirfitam  apaiyat  |)  Ik  the 
AtbarYii-veda.  vii.  3M,  2,  a  female  taya  to  the  man  the  wishes  to  lute  her:  Knoa  i 
ntekain  antri  .Krfr.i«  tUvthkijat  p*ri  \  Un»  a  ni  kurvt  ttam  akaw  yatka  i 
nipritjn  |  '-  In  order  thut  I  may  bo  beloved  by  Ihce,  I  overcome  th«  with  this  pltat, 
wherewith  the  Avars  femjilo  drew  lodra  down  from  among  the  g 


A8    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA. 


83 


(2)  Iii*  attribute*  pAyiieal  and  mental. 

A  variety  of  vague  and  general  epithet*  are  lavished  upon  ludra. 
He  M  diatioguialiod  aa  youthful,  i.nci-.-nt,  strong,  agile  (NfMi  i.  130,  7; 
i .  22,  i;  *i    89,  S;  via  24,  9,  12;  viii.  67,  1\  Hil  81,  3).  Bl 

,  bright,  unoxcaying,  oll-eonqaering,  lord  of  unbounded  wisdom, 
and  irresistible  power  and  prowess,  wielder  of  tho  thunderbolt. 
i.  4,  8;  i.  16,9;  i.  30,  6,  15;  i.  (>l,  1;  i.  81,  2,  7 :  i.  I 
L  100,  19  ;  i.  102,  6 J  i.  1C5,  6;  ii.  21,  1-3;  iii.  30,  3;  iii.  3'-',  7; 
2  ;  iii.  I'.,  1  ;  vi.  13,  4 ;  vii.  20,  4  ;  vii.  22,  5  ;  viii.  81,  8; 
viii.  84,  7  ff  ;  x.  103,  1  IT).  "He  hiu  vigour  in  his  body,  strength  in 
hia  arms,  a  thunderbolt  in  his  hand,  und  wisdom  in  his  bead"  (ii.  16, 
2.  Jafhart  tomato  bum  *aho  mako  ktute  tajrtun  bftarali  i\rsho*i  kratttm  \ 
riii.  85,  3.  Indriuya  vajrnh  ilytuo  niatiihh  Indrtuyo  biiAvor  ln£yiah(har» 
ojtih  |  Indrasya  ilrahan  krataco  nireh) :  He  assumes  the  most  beautiful 
forma,  and  ia  invested  with  the  ruddy  lustre  of  tho  sun1'  (x.  112,  3. 
harUtatu  tareh**&  tiryiuya  h-t-ihfhaih  rijxti*  tauritm  tparfayawa).  Tho 
Vedic  poeta  hare  also  described  to  us  a  few  of  tho  features,  as  tlioy 
ivod  them,  of  hi*  psntnl  nppi-nranftc.  One  of  tho  • 
i  most  frequently  appliad  to  him  ir  susipra,  or  iiprm,  in  the  interpre- 
tation of  which  Sayann  wavers  between  "  tho  god  with  hundiorae 
eheeka  or  nose  "  {he  utii-pra  iobhana-hatto  iiAtliana-nriniht  n't),  (i.  9,  3; 
i.  29,  2;  i.  Hi.  1;  i.  101,  Kl;';'  iii.  32,  9  ;  iii.  36,  10  ;  viii.  32,  4. 
24;  viii.  33,  7;  viii.  85,  I;  x.  105,  5),'"  and  tho  "  god  with  the 
beautiful  helmet "  (iobKana-iirattrupoptto  yadrt  iabkana-hanttavin  |  iii. 
30,  8;  viii.  17,  4  ;  viii.  81,  4;  viii.  82,  12). «• 
In  liii.  G.",  10,  he  ia  said  to  have  agitated 

after  drinking  the  soma  poured  out  from  u  ladle  (tUtithfhan* 
pj*$&  trha  pittl  iipre  anpayah  |  hmum  Intra  cJtamu  tutam).    .He  it 

»*  Cawftroi   3D.  IL 

••*  A  bow  on  thu  word  mil  ,   MirnU. 

»M  In  R.V.  ii.  *&,  3,  Imlra  ii  rtyle.1  fk**r*.mmM«.  which  Sujmja  interprets  milk 
memtr*  jtniuii*  Um  ;  »nd  adds  the  followuifc  era*  QXpfanatiOB  KMbfe 

Ukl  BnUUMoa :  pirn  text  tha  ttriffait  mmbkatatm  l»4n>  bhefOjotuiHlaya  tr*iarm 
•ii*#i^mi  in  kmmtXiuJtMir  ommSltm  |  On  vi-.i.  19,  :>'J,  linw- 
tter,  whew  th*  nnc  opilhrt  oceor*,  «pplii*l,  ftj  Btyiae  coondtw,  •■• 
it  m  n  gnat  bnlli»ncT"  (mmtk^mUi  tomumtg  apalanmtt  iii  mm»J>- 


' 


THE  IXDU5   GODS   GEXE2ALLT. 


•bo  eailcd  im^n,  the  roddy-jawed  (z.  96,  4,  9,  IS) ; 
tbe  roddy-  or  ^;ien- barred  (x.  96,  4,  8);  hmri-m4$irn,m  the  raddy- 
or  goldeo-beudcd,  or  msasfsihui  (z.  96,  8;  z.  23,  4).  Hit  beard  u 
violently  agitated  whea  he  a>  esdnbntad,  or  pat*  himself  in  motion 
11,  17,  pr*aWhmnt  issssVwiea  prr+i**k:  x.  23,  I,  pra  imairu 
•WiUmtf}.""  His  whale  ■pawnw  it  roddy  or  golden  {hari-varpat,  x. 
96.  Iff.,  where  the  chsns^t  are  rang  upon  the  word  Uri).  Uruwiu- 
tinxa  also  described  m  ewragjasia,  golden  -iii.  55,  3),  and  m 

baring  goMam  aims  (asragje  faia,  riL  34,  4) ;  and  aometirac*  as  of  an 
iron  hue,  or  frame  (djoae)  (146,3;  x.  96,  4,  8).  His  arms  arc  long 
and  tar  extended  (tL  19,  8,  prUii  Isrsssl  imimU  eaMotft  ;  viii.  32, 
10,  iripra-kwama  ;  riiL  70,  I,  ssssaUsMfiis.).**  Bat  his  forms  are  r 
lees;  be  can  assume  say  shape  at  will  [aL  38,  I.  vUmr*p»  amrttilni 
Uulhau ;  iii.  48,  4,  y*tUt«i*C  tore*  tKdrt  «*U .-  iii.  53,  8,  rHp*& 
ripam  maghati  MAarlti  maydh  hrt'mramaa  Umeam  par  ,    .1.  17, 

18,  ripam  rupam  pratirupc  tallica  UJ  *rya  rupmm  pratithakthaaAytt  | 
Ioiro  Wiyuhhih  purvrQptk  lyere). 


(3)  i/u  chariot  ami  harm. 


< '.  rryinpc  in  his  hand  a  golden  whip  (kaid  kiramyayt,  viii.  33,  11), 

hu  is  homo  on  a  shining  golden  car,  with  a  thousand  -  ft  29, 

,-nlht  hircnyoya  raihttthah;   viii.  1,  21  f.,  rathe  hiranyayt ;  viii. 

.  ithaik  I  it.fi  f  ha  hirmtjayam  utjuurtiptid'am).  which  move*  mora 

•wiltly  than  thought  (z.  112,  2,  yaa  it  rathe  maitato  jntlytln  a  Indra 

Ifna  tomapeyilya  yuhi),  and  U  drawn  by  two**  tawny  \hafl,  ruddy,  or 

••'  I  nippiwn  this  b  the  suae  as  kirijmajn  applied  to  Agni  is  B.V.  x.  46,5 
id  of  which  the  g8ou-**da  in  the  pirallel  passage  reads  hariimmlr*.     Is  E.V. 
.  wbitb  S«vs*s  interpret*  to  mem  rtthse  W-mWH*. 
*..«».  ••  ho  wboso  jaws  carry  away,"  «  iT^o.*?w*«,  "with  rhnria*  head-dress.'* 
MS  A  tir.nl  is  sIm)  aniincd  »  m»baa,  who  similatly  «hnke»  it  (x.  .'0,  7). 
•»  In  a  verso  which  dom  not  occur  in  tbr  Big-rods,  »'»'  BSssa-rsda,  u.  1219,  tans 
Imlra's  nrro:     l«dnuf   tahi    ithariniu  ywrawir   ant^'rithyau  msrs- 
I  Be  pmtkoiuau  piy*  aaata  yiMytm  jilam  aawr**i<m  mh* 
w.i*-/  I  '•  When  the  wwarion  ■rrirw  may  I  ndre  employ  firU  thiuo  arms  Strang,  ynuth. 
Ml.  inssjiihl  .  anconrrucrdhU',  arith  ahies  the  great  power  of  tbe 

h*mtru  mat  on  non  " 

a  il.  IS,  4-7  Indr  '"  conts  wilb  two,  four,  six,  rifiht,  len,  r 

r,or  *  biiiKlrei  horses  (oMnp 
I,  U)  U.  drink  tbs  S0ma-j«te        III  '»•  «.  »,  *  Uwnwad  borses  are  mid  to  conwy 


z 


AS  rLF.ritF.5E.VTKD    IN'   TTJE    I 


85 


goldco)  steeds,  snorting,  neighing,  and  irresistible  (L  30,  16,  iairad 
Indrtth  popruthadlhir  ji</»ya  naiuidadbhih  iaicaiadbhir  dhannm ;  i.  8L, 
3,  rnadnthyutd  tart),"1  with  Bftwfag  golden  manes,  ktiina  (i.  10,  3  ; 
i.  82,  6  ;  viii.  17, 2 ;  hiranyalniijii,  viii.  32,  29  ;  viii.  82,  24),  with  lnir 
like  peacock's  feathers  (iii-  46,  1  (=A.V.  vii,  117,  I),  a  haribhir  yahi 
tMyira*romabhih),  and  peacock's  tail* {may Uraitpyd ,  viii.  1,  25),  which 
rapidly  traTerao  vnat  distances  (ii.  16,  3,  yad  dhtbhih  pabui  |f 
purv),  and  transport  him  as  a  hawk  is  borne  by  its  wings  (viii.  34,  9, 
0  led  nadachyutH  harl  fyrttam  paksheva  vakehatah).  Ilia  car  and  horses 
appear  to  have  been  formed  by  the  Ribhua  (i.  Ill,  1,  Takthan  / 
tvrriiaih  cidmand  'patat  lakthan  hart  Mratilful  rrinhanrtuu.  |  Cakthan 
pitribhydm  fibhtm  ytcad  rayah ;  v.  31,  4,  anavat  U  ratham  ali&ya 
toUa).     3  ring  are  §omo  of  the  ether  text*  which  refer  to 

Imlra's  chariot  and  hones:  i.  6,  2 ;  f .  16,  1,  2  (where  the  horses 
are  celled  sun-eyed,  Hwhakikatah);  L  65,  7;  i.  84,  6;  i.  101,  10;  ii. 
11,  6;  viii.  13,  11,  27  ;  x.  1 1,  *J.      I  i<l  to  be  borne  !•■ 

horse*  of  the  Sun(x.  49,  7 ',  ahan  iurya»ya  pari  ydrni  aiubhih  pra  rtaiebhir 
rahaotanak  ejaiii),  or  by  those  of  Vnta,  the  wind  (at.  22,  4-0,  yujuuo  air  A 
I'alatya  dhun\  dteo  d/catyu  vajrivah).m  The  same  deity,  Vayu,  tho 
wind,  is  said  to  have  Indra  for  hi*  charioteer,  or  companion  in  his  car 
(jt.  46,  2;  iv.  48,  2,  iMiH  jfiwfif .  vii.  91,  6,  India-viiyW  tarathaSi 
yntam  artdl).  The  horses  of  Indra  are  declared  to  be  yoked  by  the 
power  of  prayer  (i.  82,  6,  ynnn/i/ii  t«  brahmana  leiinti  hart:  ii. 
1 8,  3,  harl  nv  lam  rath*  Indrwiya  yoj'am  tiyai  tiUout  tacAa*a  naetna  ; 
iii.  35,  4,  brahmana  to  brnhmayuja  yunajmi  hart  saihaya  tadhamddd 
uiu;  viii.  1,  24,  hrahmayujo  harayah;  viii.  17,  2,  brahmayifjd  hart; 
viii.  %  27;  viii.  45,  39,  A  U  etil  vachoyujil  harl  yrtbhQt ;  viii.  87,  9, 
yufijanli  harl  iihinuya  ydlhayd  limit  rathe  urmyuge  |  Zndravtihd  carta- 
yj*),  which  is  no  doubt  only  another  mode  of  saying  that  it  16  in  con- 


Indra  tad  Viju  (compare  vi.  47,  19).  In  viii.  1,  24,  Indra*  horses  us  said  to  be  a 
thaoaasd  sad  s  himdrtd.  From  such  a  text  a*  tii.  35,  7,  whm  Indra  i*  infortaod 
that  food  has  boon  proridcJ  far  hi»  bono*,  as  veil  m  tonn-juico  to  til  bis  own  belly 
(tent  IT),  it  would  appear  that  tlo  worshipper  had  s  perfect  auunace  of  tho  jrod*« 
presence.  In  another  place,  howcrcr  (i.  1 14,  fl),  the  enquiry  U  inadr  (among  aercnil 
other*  denoting  difficulty  and  mystery),  "  Who  baa  pcrcL-neO  the  two  bone*  of 
Iadrar"  {kmrl  Uir—y  ih  tAiiiy*  k*h  »nl  |  ). 

«•'  Oa  th«  atsae  of  the  word  mUt.f.^1  sec  Muller-a  Trana.  of  tho  K.V.  L  US  L 

"■  Compare  Plains,  18,  10;  104,  i. 


M 


THE  INDIAN   GODS  GE.NEIIALLV, 


sequence  of  tho  importunity  of  his  worshippers  that  ho  makes  ready 
his  chariot  to  coruo  and  receive  their  oblation*  and  fulfil  their  desires. 


(4)  Hit  thunderbolt  and  other  unapt**  and  instnmsntt. 

The  thunderbolt  of  Indra  is  generally  described  as  baring  been 
fashioned  for  him  by  the  Indian  Ilcphaistos,  Tvasht  ri,  tho  artificer  of  the 
gods  (i.  32,  2  :  Txathta  attnai  ta/raSt  tvaryafh  tataltha ;  i.  SI,  6,  atmai 
id  u  Teathfu  takthtid  rajram  icapatiamam  tvarya&i  ranSya;  i.  85,  9, 
TuaxhfCL  yad  rajram  tuXriluw  hirunyayam  ttahasrabhrisUm  ttapiik  atari- 
taynl  |  v.  31,  4,  TViuA'd  rajram  rfyittnanlam  takahat;  vi.  17,  10,  adha 
Tiaihfa  U  maht  uyra  tajrairi  laAturabhrishfim  tarn  tat  (aUUrim  \  x.  48,  3, 
nti? AyiiBi  Tcath'il  rajram  alakthad  uyatam) ;  but  neoording  to  other  toxt» 
it  appears  to  have  been  made,  and  given  to  Indra  by  Kavya  Usanas 
(i.  121,  12,  yam  te  Kuajah  UianO.  mandinaSi  dud  rriltrahaaam  pur yam 
tatahna  vajram ;  v.  34,  2,  tahatrabhrithlim  U&ana  tadkatii  yamat).'a 
Its  natural  mode  of  prodoetUD  is  alluded  to  in  viii.  89,  9,  where  it  ia 
eaiil :  "  The  thunderbolt  lien  in  the  (aerial)  ocean,  enveloped  in  water" 
(lamudr*  antak  iayatt  udn&  vajroabhirrHuh).  Thia  thunderbolt  ia  some- 
times Btylod  golden,  hira*y*ya(L  57,  2  ;  i.  85,  'J  j  viii.  57,  3  ;  x.  23,  3), 
Bometimcfl  ruddy,  harita  [x.  90,  3);  but  it  ia  abo  dujcribed  as  being 
of  iron,  ayasa  (i.  52,  8;  i.  80,  12;  i.  81,  4;  i.  121,  9;  viii.  85,  3; 
x.  48,  S;  x.  96,  3;  x.  113,  6);  sometimes  it  ia  represented  aa  four- 
nnplud,  thatura&ri  (iv.  22,  2),  sometimes  as  hundred-angled,  iatairi  (vi. 
17,  10),  sometimes  a»  ImtHlud-jointcd,  iataj/arran  (i.  80,  6;  riii.  6, 
6 ;  viii.  C5,  2 ;  viii.  78,  3),'"  and  sometimes  as  having  a  thousand 
tnhan-abhrUhli  (i.  80,  12;  i.  85,  9;  v.  34,  2;  ri.  17.  10). 
Indro  is  in  one  place  (i.  55,  1 )  represented  as  sharpening  his  thunder- 
bolt, as  a  bull  his  horns  [Siiila  vajram  tcjase  na  va&sayah).  In  viii.  69, 
2,  the  thunderbolt  put  into  I  mini's  hand  is  compared  to  tho  sun  placed 
in  tliu  sky  {diva  na  tiryah).     In  other  passage*  this  gud  is  spoken  of 

"»  Tho  AiL  Br.  ir.  1,  mvs:  Aru#  mi'  pralbamma  ahna  Map*  t*jr*A  mm*. 

bttann  |  talk  dvttfyma  a/ma  arinebem  \  Iptifata  aXiut  prapithk+m  \  Urn  rAHurtU 

nfwit  praAarat  |  "The  gods  provided  the  Ihuaderbolt  fee  I  intra  hy  th«  8rrt  cay's 

(oeremwiy).     By  th«  Moaad  dny'x  they  moistanod  it.     liy  tho  third  day's  they  gars 

iim.     On  tho  fourth  day  h«  hurltd  it."     Btt  Prof,  liiuir'i  'IWs.  p.  SW. 

1,1  Compare  A.V.  i».  37,  8  i   Hiimitk   Mr—pa  At^tyaJf  iataU,rM(!r  apiumttyHf; 
mid  the  next  «t*c,  irliicb  is  the  Miao,  with  tbc  (uUlitutwa  of  Au-anyuyty  fur 
mapilf;  ami  A.\.  -rni.  0,  10. 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RK'.-VI.DV 


87 


as  armed  with  a  bow  and  arrows  (viii.  45,  4  ;  viii,  CO,  G,  11 ;  x.  103, 
2,  3).  His  arrows  are  de*«ribod  as  golden  (viii.  66,  11),  as  luring  a 
hundred  points,  and  as  being  winged  with  a  thousand  feathers  (viii.  66, 
7).  Indra  is  also  declared  to  carry  a  hook  (ankuSa).  Thus  ia  riti,  17, 
10,  it  is  said:  diryhai  U  attu  ankttio  yena  ratu  prayachhati  |  y  a  jama- 
n/iya  runtaU  |  "  May  the  hook  be  long  wherewith  thou  rcachcut 
wealth  to  tho  worshipper  who  offers  oblations."  And  similarly  in 
Atharra-vcda,  vi.  82,  3,  yat  te  ankttio  tasmUno  bfihann  Indra  fiiren- 
yay tii  |  Una  JnnlyaU  juyiltn  mahyam  dhehi  iaehipaU  |  "  With  that 
great  golden  hook  of  thine  which  confers  wealth,  o  lord  of  powor 
(Indra),  reach  u  wife  to  mo  who  am  longing  fur  one.'""  Another 
text  in  which  this  word  occurs  is  lt.Y.  x.  134,  6  (=  Sataa-veda  it, 
111):  diryl-m  hi  ankuiain  yathu  iaktim  bibharthi  tnantmnah  \  pircena 
mtyhacen  padu  ajo  vayum  yatkd  |  "  Then,  o  wiso  (Indra),  earnest  a 
long  hook  like  a  spar,  and  (holdcst  fast  therewith),  as  a  gout  (catches) 
a  branch  with  Eta  (bto  foot,"  The  word  is  also  found  in  x.  44,  9:  '•  I 
carry  to  theo  this  well-made  goail,  win.  re  with,  o  mngniflcont  god,  thou 
mayest  rend  the  Sapharuj  demons""*  {imam  bibharmi  rnkfitam  te 
ankniaxi  yrna  urvjtiri  maghacan  iaphtirnj<ih). 

Another  instrument  of  warfare,  a  net,  is  assigned  to  Indra  in  tho 
A.V.  viii.  8,  5  ff. :  anlariktham  jdfam  &tlj  jdladandd  diio  mahih  |  Una- 
Ikidhaya  datynnim  iakrah  imam  aputayat  |  6.  Brihad  hi  jr 
brihatah  iakraiya  vdjinlratak  |  Una  ixtrftn  abhi  tart/ln  nyubja  yatha  no 
mucky  Jiai  katamalcbina  etJuim  |  7.  Br  that  te  jilam  bfihatah  Indra 
iira  uthatraryhatya  laUttlryatya  \  Una  sinogram  aytUam  ni  arbttdaft 
jayhdna  iakro  dasyQn'lm  abhidhiya  unayH  |  8.  ayam  toko  j&lam  Odt 
takratya  mahato  mahun  \  Undhaa  IndrajHUna  am  urn*  tamati  'bin 
dadAtiati  earv&n  | 


m  la  these  passages  I  follow  Roth's  explanation  of  ani  u»«,  as  given  in  hit  Lc-\i- 
eoa,  Uf.    Id  hit  tranalatiun  of  thu  pooagc  from  Uin  A.V.  in  Imluchn  Stiidion  t.  Ml, 
Ptofceaor  Wskcr  andRiUndt  thu  word  [ankui*)  ef  a  goad  with  which  cattle  arc 
dri«ca.    Ia  A.V.  ui.  1 10.  1,  111  fvttiuic,  I'ajil  Laluhml,  ia  said  to  lm  dnwa  ct 
■war  with  as  iron  hook  (oygnruy— «  ankuta). 

■**  I  am  indee-Ud  to  Professor  Anfrwht  for  pointing  oat  the  tens*  of  this  Tatte, 

u  wcU  aa  of  tac  preoadiag.    S'm/tMr^  tccwu  to  mean  a  domou,  «r  aa  animal  that 

daatroye  with  iu  hocda.    The  wunl  ocean  abo  in  z.  87,  12,  where  it  it  an  epithet 

..f  Yitiwlhina,  a  demon,  and  appear*  to  refet  to  tome  goblin  which  wat  oontMred  lo 

tb  ia  Loofa 


88 


Till:   INDIA*  001)8  QEKEIIAI.LY. 


"  The  utr  was  a  net,  awl  the  great  quarters  of  the  sky  the  poles  of  the 
net.  With  it  Sokra  (or  tho  powerful  god)  enveloped  tho  army  of  the 
Ductus,  and  oast  thorn  down.  C.  Great  is  tho  net  of  the  great  Sftkn, 
bestower  of  food.  With  it  so  overwhelm  all  tho  foes  that  uot  one  of 
thorn  may  escape.  7.  Urent  is  thy  net,  o  heroic  Indra,  who  art  great, 
and  a  match  for  a  thousand,  and  equalling  tho  strength  of  a  hundred 
foes.  Sakra,  with  Iub  host,  slow  a  thousand,  ten  thousand,  a  hundred 
millions,  of  the  Du.-vuB,  enveloping  them  in  it.  8.  This  world  was  the 
pnvit  hi  t  of  Um  gnat  s  ikra.  With  this  net  of  India  I  invdopo  thorn 
all  in  darkness. "m 


(3)  Hit  love  of  toma-juice. 


,  and 


Invoked  by  his  mortal  worshippers,  Indra  obeys  the  summons, 
speedily  arrive*  in  hi*  chariot  to  receive  their  offerings.  He  find*  food 
provided  for  his  horse*  (lit.  35,  7,  stlrgaM  to  barhih  tutah  Indra  mbm| 
/.ri/.i  ii!,M>:u  tttmt  te  haribhyom),  :uid  large  libations  of  soma -juice  are 
1  out  for  himself  to  quaff.  He  becomes  oxhOuated  by 
us,  which  are  also  frequently  described  as  stimulating  his  war- 
like dispositions  and  energies,  and  fitting  him  for  his  other  taxu 

for  supporting  the  earth  and  sky  (ii.  16,  2:  ammU  fiyum  aite- 
hhayad  brihau(<im  ...  so  dhtlrayat  Prithivlm  papralhat  cha  somuuy* 
ft!  made  Indrai  chakura).  The  following  are  a  few  of  the  numerous 
passages  which  refer  to  this  worship  of  Indra:  i.  4,  8;  i. 
i.  80,  If.;  i.  84,  1  (where  the  poet  hopes  the  draught  may  Gil  him 
with  strength,  ob  tho  sun  tills  the  nir  with  his  rayj :  <J  let  pri- 
nallu  indriyam  n>jt\h  t&ryo  na  raimibhiti),  i  (where  it  is  said  to  be 
an  "immortal  stimulant" — imwty&m  madam);  ii.  15,  I,  2;  ii.  19,  1 
f. ;  ii.  21,  1  ;  iii.  36,  3  ;  iii.  40,  1  ff.  ;  iii.  42,  1  ff. ;  vi.  S3,  1,  5,  6; 
vi.  27,  If;  vi.  29,  4  ;  vii.  22,  1  f. ;  vii.  29,  1  f. ;  viii.  S,  1 ;  riii.  81, 
5,  6  ;  x.  104,  I  IT. ;  etc.,  etc.  The  gods  are  described  ax  nil  hastening 
eagerly  to  piutuke  of  this  buverage,  viii.  2,  18  (yanli  pramddam  ntan- 
drdhy,  viii.  68,  1 1 :  apSd  Indro  apdd  Agnir  cihti  dertlh  amattalu  |  "Indra 
has  drank,  Agtii  has  drunk  ;  all  the  gods  have  become  exhilarated  ; " :" 

1,11  Cotnpsur  A.V  in.  C6.  1  :  a^tgOtah  aturStf  nutyino  'jMMUi.Vflt.li  pJHm\  aukiaa 
yt  rhartnti  \  tarn*  U  randhtyim  harua  Jatar*iah  takturabhrul.UA  m/m/*o« 
jtmminAn  yiki  r*ji.iA. 

'**  Ait.  Dr.  ti  Hi  mu<lya«ti  it*  r*i  mwikyauJii*  ./««MA  mm  rr«  trifiya—r*— 


AS    KEl'P.K.SKXTBD    IN    Till1.    ttlO-VEDA, 


80 


bat  Indra  u  particularly  addicted  to  the  indulgence,  i.  104,  9,  umwbl- 
mojm  tea  ahuh;  i.  175,  5,  huhminiamo  hi  le  madah ;  ii.  14,1,  hlml  hi 
tirah  $4dam  a*ya  jritY*  juhola  erithga  tad  hi  nha  vathfi  ;  vii.  33,  2, 
dftrdd  Indram  anayann  d  tttlrna  ;  viii.  2,  1,  Indrah  it  tomapSh  tktth 
Indrah  tutapilh  tiitayuh  \  ant/ir  «/«•««  murfyiihi  eha  \  u  Indra  is  the 
only  drinker  of  somn,  a  drinker  of  libation*,  of  full  vitality,  among 
gods  and  men;"  viii.  4,  12,  idaih  U  anna-  Hamukthifam  tatya 

i'Ai"  pradraca  pibo  \  "This  thy  favourite  nutriment  has  been  ponml  DQl  ; 
run  and  drink  of  it;"  viii.  6,  40,  rrittraha  lomaputamoh  ;  viii.  60,  '2, 
Momakumaft  hi  /<•  nanah  \  Indeed,  it  would  appear  to  be  t" 
absolute  necessary  of  life,  a*  his  mother  give  it  to  him  to  drink  on 
srery  day  of  his  birth  (iii.  32,  n,  mctyo  yaj  jfito  apibo  ha  tomam  |  10. 
tcatii  tadyo  apibo  jdtah  Indra  madilya  tomam  parann  vyomnn  ;  iii.  48,  2, 
3,  already  quoti <1,  p  77 ;  vi.  H»,  2,  atyapiba  yaiya  jajmlnafi  Intlro  madayn 
kratce  apibah ;  vii.  98,  8,  jiijaOnah  toinaih  nthau  papathtt  pra  It  mat  a 
muhufiniin  ttrdeka).  He  is  ?nid  to  have  drunk  at  ono  draught  thirty 
bowls  of  eon II  10,  4,  ekaya  pra/idhu  'pihat  takaih  earilmti  frr'ft- 

iaUm    |  Indrah  tovtaiya  kanaka.     See  Xirukta,  v.  1 1 ;   compare  II. V. 
vi.  17,  Hi  and  viii.  7,  10).     His  worshippers  invito  him  in  t!      n 
naif  manner  to  drink  boldly  (vi.  47,  6,  dhriihat  piba   hiiiasc   tomam 
Indra);   to  drink  like  a  thirsty  stag  (riii.  4,   10,  r>h°  M  'r'"'1.1 
arapAnam  Ag/thi  piha  utn&n  caiOu  omn),  or  a  bull  roaming  in 
leas  waste  (r.  36,  1,  dhanraeharo  na  raHiioga*  irUhana*  chakamAnah 
fibalu  dugdham  amium  |   eomparo  viii.  33,  2,  kadi  tutaHi  trUh&ntk 
okah  6gam*k  Indra  tvabdiva  tamtagah,  and  nil  his  belly,  or  his  two 
bellies,  which  are  compared  to  two  lakes,  by  copious  potations ;  and  ho 
•peaks  in  similar  language  of  having  accepted  the  invitation  •*  (i.  8,  7 ; 
i    104,  9;  ii.  II,  11  (nitiUah  prinunttu  U  ktthhl  rardhayantu) ;  ii.  14, 
10;  ii.  16.  2;  iii.  86,  6  (dadhiahca  imartt  jafhare  indum  Indra) ;  iii.  36, 
7,    8   (Jtradah  in  ktJuhayah  tomadhdnah);  iii.   4(1,   5;    iii.  47,   1   (d 
rinekasra  jafhare  madhrah  iirmtm) ;  iii.  51,  12  (pra  tt  afitoru  kuktliyoh); 
TiiL   12,  23  (tan  na  prati  udaram);  viii.  2,  1    > 
tUL  17,  5-8  (d  U  linchdmi  hukthyh);  viii.  G7,  7;  viii.  81,  22-24; 


miJaymnl*,  *b>co  Profwor  ll*«g  trsaiUta  i  "  Ttio  g»d»  g«4  drunk,  w  H  ware,  at 
libtuioa,  umI  sro  (Leu  ocuKquintlj  it  II  -ttiofl  in  •  ttaU  of 

wnplcts  dnmknnMa§." 

*•*  The  Biaia-jtiice  wai  al»j  drunk  tij  th«  NunhiprKn  tlirin«^1»p«.  »nH  ju  rrTr.un  on 


90 


THE    INDIAN    QODS    GENEItALLY, 


X.  28,  2  ;  x.  43,  7  ;  x.  104,  2  ;  A.V.  ii.  b,  1  ff.  j  vi.  2,  1  ff.  The 
soma-draughts  aw  aaid  to  resort  to  him  as  birds  to  a  leafy  tree ;  sod 
to  flow  to  him  as  waters  to  the  ocean,  or  rivuleta  to  a  lake ;  tad  bis 
worship  purs  are  than  said  to  magnify  him  as  grain  in  doreloped  by 
showers  of  rain,  x.  43,  4  (  Fayo  na  vphham  tupal<ii*m  Sudan  tomtit*} 
Irufmrn  mandinai  cham&thad/ih  |  7.  Apo  na  tindkum  abhi  yal  tamo- 
kiharan  tomdsah  Tndram  i  hradam  \  tardhanti  tiprah  make 

atya  tadant  yavaih  na  vfithfir  dicyena  danund).  He  is  also  spoken  of 
as  eating  the  flesh  of  bulls,  or  buffaloes,  at  the  same  time  that  he 
drinks  tlio  draught*  of  soma  (x.  28,  3,  adrinrl  t»  mandimih  Indra  taydn 
tu/nanti  somiin  jiibtsii  tram  ethum  \  pachanti  te  trithabhun  atti  Uthtlm). 
Three  hundred  are  mcutioned  in  v.  20,  7  f.,  one  hundred  in  viii.  66, 
10,  and  one  in  x.  27,  2.  Indra  is  besought  to  taste  the  offering  pre- 
sented, and  to  take  delight  in  the  hymns  addressed  to  him,  as  an  ardent 
1'ivcr  <H.in<  his  mistress  (iii.  62,  3  =  ir.  32,  16:  purofaiatit 
no  ghato  joxhayutt  yirai  tha  \  vadhiyur  iva  yothanUm). 

The  sensations  of  the  god  alter  drinking  the  soma-juico  are  thus 
described  in  Itig-reda  x.  1 1 9  :  1 .  Hi  vai  Hi  mi  mono  g&n  siraA  tammyum 
Hi  |  httit  tomiuya  aptm  iti  |  2.  pra  cdtsh  i'ca  dodhata}  un  mi  pitch 
OffSmtthk  ',  hand  ily  aii  \  'A.  nn  ma  pililh  ayamutta  rathan  aivlh  •wiifl- 
rafl  |  kuiit — |  4.  upa  mil  matir  aslhila  vuira  putram  iva  priyain  |  hint — | 


- 


some  of  them  an  occasionally  described.  Thus  la  tS.  17,  3,  it  i»  said :  "  This  (soma), 
when  drunk,  impels  my  voice;  it  awakes  the  ardent  thought"  ayam  m$  p'l** 
udiyartti  taeham  aynm  manliKam  utntim  ajifah).  In  Tiii.  4S,  3,  it*  clmritiag  affect 
is  (till  more  dutinotly  told  in  these  wordi.  /ijkim  toman  amfitnA  a&liima  fmm* 

jt/tAir  atidama   drrati  |  Aim   nunam  MMil   /.n..  /.,..'  nrnldf  Aim  u  dkurttxr  arxnta 

mantyotyo,  which  mar  be  rendered  as  follows  :— 

W«"»o  quaffed  tho  soma  bright, 

And  nn*  immortal  grow* ; 
Wi  '•..     mi  i.  .1  intC  li:;!'i. 

And  all  tlic  godi  ha»c  known. 
What  mortal  now  can  1 

Or  fttBU  vex  us  mom  r 

Through  thee,  beyond  alarm. 

Immoral  god,  wo  soar. 

Compixro  the  carious  parallel  to  this  (already  noticed  in  tho  3rd  Vol.  of  ibis  work, 

p.  265)  in  tho  satirical  drama  of  Euripides,  the  Cjelopa,  678,  II.,  where  I\>l)phtmu» 

exclaims  in  bi>  drunken  exaltation  : 

'O  6*  ofipavoi  moi  evpntfiiy^irot  Sen$l 
Tn  yy  *V/**Sai,  top  Ai£r  t«  t.\»  9f6*6¥ 
Atiorm  it  win  t«  Uupim*  irfrlw  «ifisa. 


AS  RF.IT.KSESTED   IN   THE   IlIO-VCDA. 


01 


5.  ckaSt  tethffta  tanJkuram  pary  tekAmi  hridd  matim  \  tmit — |  6.  na  hi 
aw  nkthipMh  thana  tuhhiintsuh  pancha  Ljithlayah  |  kuvit — |  7.  mi  hi  m* 
nd**\  ubks  anyam  pakikam  thaaa  prali  |  kuiit — |  8.  ahhi  dyAm  makind 
'bAaram  abhlmdn  prithirlm  maklm  |  kuvit —  |  0.  kaidukain  prithirlm 
(hum  im  dwlk'Jtilho  ttha  pd  |  kurit — |  10.  otham  it  prilhiihn  ahatit 
jerykandniha  uha  vd  |  kutit — |  11.  divi  uu>  anyah  paiaio  adho  anyaen 
mckikfukam    |    kurit  —  |     12.  ahum  tioii   ntnhdmakc  abkinabkyam  mil- 

ih  |  kvcit —  |  13.  gfiho  ydmi  transitu  dwtbhyo  kavyaiukisnak,  \ 
lite  it  tvmatya  apum  iti 

"  1  have  verily  resolved  to  bostow  cows  and  borsoe:  I  havo  gv 
tho  soma.  3.  The  draughts  which  I  have  drank  impel  me  like  violent 
blast* :  I  have  quaffed  the  soma.  S.  The  draughts  which  I  hare 
drank  impel  mo  08  float  hone*  »  chariot:  I  have  quaffed  the  Mima.  4. 
The  hymn  (of  my  worshipper)  ha*  hastened  to  me,  n*  a  cow  to  I 
beloved  calf:  I  hare  quaffed  the  soma.  5.  I  turn  the  hymn  round 
■bout  in  ray  heart,  at  a  carpenter  a  beam  :  I  have  quaffed  tho  soma. 

6.  The  five  tribe*  of  men  appear  to  me  not  oven  aa  a  mote :  1  have 

fed  the  soma.  7.  The  two  worlds  do  not  c<iu:il  even  one  half  of 
mo :  1  have  quuffed  tho  soma.  8.  I  surpass  in  greatness  the  heaven 
and  tiiio  va.nt  earth  :  I  have  quaflod  the  soma.  9.  Conic,  let  me  plant 
this  earth  either  hero  or  there  :  I  have  quaffed  the  soma.  10.  Let  mo 
•mite  the  earth  rapidly  hither  er  thither :  I  have  quaffed  tho  soma. 
11.  One  half  of  me  is  in  the  sky,  and  I  have  drawn  the  other  down  ; 
I  have  quaffed  the  soma.  13.  I  am  majestic,  elevated  to  the  heavens: 
I  have  quaffed  the  soma.  13.  1  go  prepared  a*  a  minuter,  a  Iwarcr  of 
oblation*  to  the  gods :  I  have  quaffed  tho  soma." 

The  hymns,  prayers,  and  worship  addressed  to  Indra  are  described 
as  stimulating  his  energies  and  increasing  bin  vigour  (i.  52,  7  :  brah- 
■><<§>  Indra  faro  ydni  tardkand);  i.  54,  B;  L  66, 1 ;  It.  11,  •  (uklhnir 
wavridkntuih) ;  ii.  12,  14  (yatya  krahma  rsrdkanaih  yasya  tomak) ;  iii. 
33,  12  f.  (yajno  hi  U  Indra  cardhatw  bhat ;  yah  tlomebhir  tavridha 
pArxybhir  ye  madhytbhir  via  nutantbhik) ;  iii.  34,  1  (brakmajuUu 
Unid  catridktinak)  ;  v.  31,  10  (Indra  brahindgi  t'lrithlm  acardhan); 
vi.  31,  2;  vL  44,  13;  riii.  6,  1,  31,  31,  36;  via.  13,  16  (LidraSt  w- 

■  loam  rrosn  a  not*  to  Profraaor  Roth's  liimintiow  of  the  Nirolttn,  p.  101. 
UmI,  soconliag  U>  Siy-ma,  ticro  ra  •  legend  thai  Isdia,  iu  Qm  faf*  uf  *  quail, 
draak  soma,  was  um  '  .  and  tang  liia  uwn  praias  in  U.i.»  ivmti. 


92 


TIIK   INWAX    CODS    OBNBB 


Jkunlu  no  gifah  Indram  ruidwik  inihrak)  ;  viii.  II,  5,  11  (y*/««* 
Indrom  otardhayat) ;  viii.  82,  27 ;  viii.  87,  8  (rdr  *»  <rd  ytrydMw 
tariihonii  fara  brahmanf) ;  x.  50,  4  (Mwm  <t<im  Indra  bntkm*»& 
mahun);  x.  120,  5  (ckedayami  U  uyudkd  taehabkik  tail  U  itiami  brtk- 
rayHmti),  and  tho  worshippers  (as  well  at  the  gods)  are  Mtid 
to  [tbco  tho  thunderbolt  In  hi*  hands  and  to  assist  its  efficacy  (i. 
03,  2,  a  U  tajraih  jariia  bahror  dlrit) ;  ii.  20,  8  {Uunmi  Imn/m 
onn  dCtyi  itilrii  Indrdya  dewhhir  arnanltan  \  prati  yad  axya  rajram 
bshror  dhur  haCvi  datyun  purak  ayiulr  ni  ttirit);  iii.  32,  12  (yejmu 
U  Kt/rum  Ahihatye  iltat).  The  other  deities,  too,  arc  described  as  in* 
fusing  diviao  strength  into  Indra"'  (i.  80, 18,  tatmin  nrimmmn  uta  kr*- 
ttini  dtvA h  tjuikti  tarn  dadkuh) ;  vi.  20,  2  (divo  tut  lubkyam  amu  Indr* 
tairil  amryafii  devtbhir  dhuyi  ciham) ;  m  x.  -18,  3  [mayi  dttdio  avfif'mm 
.,:tum);  x.  113,  8;  x.  120,  3,  compare  x.  66,  4;  viii.  15,  8  (tow 
Lyaur  Indra panuuyavt I'rithivi  vardhati  krarak),  and  as  placing  him  in 
tho  Tan  (i.  55,  3,  tiiv«*a%ai  ugrak  knrmane punkitnk) ;  L  131,  1  {Indr/m 
viirv  tajutfono  dtv&to  dadkirt  purak) ;  vi.  17,  8  (adht 
purak  Indra  dtvAk  skatti  tavatatfi  d/idkirs  kkarCya)  ;  riii.  U  ..' 
([infnnli  VriHu'iya  Iiantnf  <t  i. u.«>  dudhirr  ptirah  |  sec  also  i.  25).  Com- 
pare Teitt.  Br.  ii.  8,  3,  8 ;  Taitt.  S.  ii.  2,  II,  6,  and  A.V.  vii.  81,  2 
api'inudo  janaut  amilrnyanlam  urum  der/bhyn  altrinor  u  falam.  He 
impelled  and  fortified  Uy  (1111  Maruts;  iii.  32,  4  {yrhhir  I'riltraty 
ithito  viveda  amarmano  munyamBntuya  marma)  ;  iii.  35,  9  {pGn  Hbkejo 
manttok  Indra  tonu  ye  triitm  atardkium  $lhwM  y**n*  tf);  iii.  47,  8 
{pin  tibhujo  tnuruto  ye  led  'nv  akan  Vj-ittram  tuladhiu  tnlkyam  ojak  | 
ace  also  v.  4)  ;  vi.  17,  11  ;  viii.  7,  24 ;  x.  73,  1,  2 ;  x.  113,  3  (cite*  U 
alra  marutak   sa/ia   tmami   etnrdhtmn    ugra  mahinulntm  indriyam)™ 


\ 


>"  IbJra  on  l.i»  tile  again  is  told  t»  give  dirioo  power  to  tbc  other  gods  (ri.  36,11 

m  Siyoon  uudenUudi  devti-hi/i  of  the  worsliippers:  stotrai'k  i!S/hwm  Jtutti 
Utttvart  Hn\ui,  u  a  deity  when  lauded  by  hymns  bccomoi  »trnnj:." 

■  lodra,  hurarrr,  in  a  di»putr  with  tlie  M.iruU  (ti>  «  bioh  1  «Uall  »;tmii  ailrrrt  U 
tho  section  on  those  deities)  clsiins  to  have  kluin  Vrittra  by  hit  own  mi^ht,  i.  165,  S: 

ox/Arm  vfittrtm  mxrvluk  imdl'tftUi  titua  hhnmnui  tatiiko  ktikutan  f  compare  tn. 
21,  6,  where  tho  aamo   thinjc  is  did  of  liira  by  his  W0  riftr** 

lavtua  japkanika  tut  ia!rur  nuliin,  fitiitxd  %/ndka  t<  ;  and  X.  183,  6:  rta  tya  .'« 
amtyiim  /U*ii/'i  ftd  |  iiiA  tkum  akriuor  nytijimm.  Ccmipare  riii.  79,  fi;  viii.  JM5.9; 
viii.  87,  2.  In  v.  SO.  5.  oil  tho  god*  are  said  to  be  afraid  of  him  («'«•  tiid  luJrSd 
abUfi*U  Ar.iA).    In  another  pi  ice,  t«o  [rat  7,  31),  the  Maruts  are  asked  "what 


AS    REPIIESEXTEU    IX    THE    1(10. VEUA. 


93 


With  Brihaspati  as  his  sllj?  he  overthrew  nil  the  enemies  of  tlio  gods 
who  assailed  him,  viii.  85,  15  [rih  atbvir  abhi  Aeharantlr  Brihaxp<ititul 
/ndrtlh  Mtah$). 
Thus  exhilamU.il   und  encouraged,  ii.    16,  1   (trikodrultth*  apibat 


IT.  ''■'■■:■< 


they  were  seeking  when  they  deserted  lain,  and  who  could  then  trust  in  their 
fmauhhip  "  kaJ  ha  mZmmm  hvihdpriyc  y*i  Indram  ajahiitnn  |  tm  t/ih  mkkitve  ahmlt  | 
Prof.  Miller,  Trans.  R.V.  i.  p.  S8,  taken  bmiktfriywh  h*  tw.>  word-,  and  reuders  the 
nm  thu  ■  'irr  where  ia  there  a  friend,  now  that  you  have  forsaken 

Indra?  Who  carta  for  your  iiii-wVuip?")  Comport  it.  IB,  11,  quoted  above  (p.  *M  f.), 
where  Indrs'i  mother  complain*  that  the  god*  wens  oluoilouing  her  ton,  and  when 
he  celt*  upon  Vishnu  to  display  hut  vuloor.  Bat  we  are  else*  hen-.  rUL  If,  7,  t.-.'rf, 
on  the  t«witrary,  that  »ll  tin-  ether  ewd.  who  had  been  IndrV*  nllift.,  terrjted  by  the 
blast  of  Vrittra's  breath,  deserted  Indra  and  Bed,  while  the  U  .     i  In-  lup- 

procd,  stood  firm,  aa  Indra  ia  adviicd  to  mako  friend*  with  tluin,  and  thun  >e  should 
euoqarr  ail  hostile  nraiet  (rrifrrvoyn  frii  hmhtKSd  M*e»8g5|  h'.'iy  uVin/i  ajahur  yt 
mtlkJiyaM  |  Marud&kir  fiuSra  mkkyiim  tt  uiIh  alka  feel)  ■  iVmA  fftUmHk  ji/yiiii). 
enanasenlater,  however  (perhaps  borauw  he  found  it  luecseary,  for  dognutieal 
raaaon*,  to  reconcile  the*:  connecting  atatementa)  interpret*  viii.  7,  31  differently,  mid 
■tehee  it  room,  "  NVbcu  did  you  desert  Iudru?  <■■  I  qaelei  the  AiUreya 

BrAhmin*  iii.  20.  which  any*  that  the  Mnniti  did  nut  abandon  him.    1  shall  DJtS  this 
I  at  greater  length  than  Sdyina  give*  it,  as  it  form*  a  comment  on  the  other 
I  just  adduced,  TiiL  85,  7:  Indm  re«  Vfilram  hanitMym  $artih  dnmtuh  aim  rid 

M«   m  upa!  mkt  kajkram    «/vi    m   .'thtayttJitint "     Hi  |   "lathi"  :'  ■  ik. 

y**t*h  ~u{rarmn  |  t»  'rrd " ino ui  «aii   hmmitmpami  •'■  |  hanta  i  ■rai" 

ill  |  lam  aiki  prc.irotit  J  tosye  iramUkad  iikawn'h  tiiit  dtruh  adrnran  |  mania 
km  rumSt  mm',  mjahuk  ••  prakara  ikagarojaki  t'lrvi/anii"  it  yum  smsm  it'im  racism 
rmUHlah  xiaitukfkanta  |  lad  ttad  ritkik  maiyann  akhyaaarAekm  \  .  .  .  .iti\m  'rtd 
*im%0  pet  kit*  m*  MrSir.iA  |  %m»  ma  kxtmaymtci  |  Juiuta  imam  aimiiiti  tttrkt  akk.. 

■'  In.lra,  when  about  to  Jay  Vrittni,  mU  tP&*:  '  i"  lfter 

nc  and  Mpport me."  Ibuy  mid,  *  Wc  wilL'  They  ran /urward  today  V|ittr».  Vrittra 
eotuiderpd ;  'Tbcyar*  running  forward  ti>  Vi:l  nn-  son  1st ■•  fijgWMD  llwsii1  He 
•ccecdiefly  blew  a  Mac  upon  limn,  when  ill  the  gudi  ran  uway  pi  irnai 

the  bUsc  of  his  breath.     But  the  Marou  did  not  forsake  Indr  i.     ilmy  tlasd  hi-  hire, 
■■•,'  Saiit*,  o  (fs^d,  il»y.  play  the  hero.'     Seeing  thu,  the  ri«hl  uttered  the  word* 
of  II  7.    lodx»  uuderot'.»>d  I         km  'ne. 

Cone,  1  shall  give  them  a  share  in  this  uktha.'"  In  B  '•'  i  ■■-■  H,  Indra  himself  ia 
aaid  to  have  becomo  frightened  u  if  at  the  approach  of  m  avengerf?),  after  he  had  xlnin 

Alu,  and  to  hare  croased  mnety-niue  rivers,  and  the  neri  il  .| -.,  whan  thing  like  a 

terrified  talraa  {aktr  y*l7>ram  «*«•■  mmmAymM  Imdrm  kfidi  "he  ikir  tameM- 

hml  |  nmvm  i-Am  •/■•■<  HAmlim  fkn  tcmntik  iy/w  M  kk.1l*  olum  r.y'.imii).     Compare 
Mattrr'i  Aac.  Snrak.  Lit.  p.  647.    The  Aiiioi  and  Sarasvatt  are  alee  said  to  hnve 
Tadra  (l:V.  j.  l.ll.  ^,  &  -Vuj.  Sanh.  «.  33,  3i).     "  You  Iww,  .Wrim,  lord* 
r,  drinking  ItftUWl  lh<  ■!»  li^tuful  drMghrl  [of  soma),  prokctc.l  Indra  in 
l.ii  >arnli  a^;uu>t  tlie  Atura  Naamclu.     5.  .\*  pusflUI  a  eon,  to  jr  tati,  Aivina. 
,ir  wisdom  and  yoer  mergy,  delivorod  the©,  0  Indra.     When  the«.  O  auejtntl- 
ccnt  (Indra),  di  i  ie   delightful  drought  (of  somu),  SanavaU  waited  upon 

laee  with  her  pewea."  (3.  Ymram  turanmm  Airimi  A'amMtMr  Sturt  tatka  J  ripipiiaZ 


94 


Tilt    INDIAN    OODS    QENERALI.T. 


tKAuya  atya  modi  Ahim  Indro  jajkdna) ;  ii.  10,  2  (<wya  mandajw  \ 
tfjraAaitah  uAim  Fttdn  d/Twrrrtert  ri  triitkdt);  »i  47,  1,  2 ;  x.  1 1 
(/wuVapioa/^fl/iidMiJM  itihuyn  .  .  .  .  |  AwiAajm  A/jafare  Kroi*/r»lii}r — 
I  mini  harries  off,  escorted  bj  troops  of  Msmts,  tad  BOBCtimcB  attended 
by  bis  faithful  comrade  Yiahnti  (L   22,    19,   Indrotya  yw/yo  solid); 

iwUvuprtT /wxVjm  AdMMMl awftfaa*  |  S .  putram  tea ptUm  Aiximh  ttiia  Itufr*  oMllU 
-"*>  rfiWfwSfitt^  |  )nti  mraoaiH   ct  «/n*«A;  #'i»<Af*AiA  «'««!  <r-i  w>W»i| 

•iAulnJA.)  A  story  u  told  by  the  coenmcntaUir  on  the  Vuj.  Sank,  x.  33,  lo  explain 
tkrsei  lines.  Ntmacsi.  it  seems,  tu  ft  friend  of  lain;  and  laiing  advantage  of  kit 
frieeid's  miMwm,  he  drank  up  Indra  a  stnarth  sJ«ng  with  •  draught  of  wine  and 
mu.  Indra  then  told  the  .Is'nns  sad  SemtTtlf  that  N'enmrhi  had  drank  op  his 
strength.  Tat  Aaeiai  and  Saraareli,  in  eeeieaqnenee,  gar*  ladraa  thundarc- 
tkc  focia  of  fokio.  with  which  he  enntc  off  tlw  bead  of  Namncbi.  The  Aarine  laaa 
drank  tb»  soma,  naiicd  with  Wood  and  wins,  from  tbe  belly  of  Ttamucai,  and  traae- 
fRnd  it  para  to  lo'lra ;  and  by  transferring  it  they  d'.it'Trd  Indra.  The  Starr  If 
taken  from  tht  S*atapatka  Ilrihmaua  aft  7.  3.  1  U.  (p.  Ml  "Weber's  ad.)  and  ii  tat 
original  Ttrrlon  of  Owe  adducad  by  sat  risrwbers  I  Vol.  IV.  Til  and  430}.  Aa  gitvn 
in  tb«  ltrib«>»a>,  it  Ha*  thai :  "The  Ann  Ximachi  oartied  off  ladia's  atreagth 
(iWn'jii)i  tb»  taMiiot  of  food,  aad  the  drsagnt  of  toma,  together  with  wine. 
(Indra)  hastened  to  the  Ajtuii  aad  Sarafratt.  and  said,  '  I  have  sworn  to  Naxnuchi.  j 
will  neither  slay  that  by  day  or  by  night ;  n-.ith rr  with  cluh,  nor  with  bow  , 
with  the  palm  of  ray  bin  J  {prithna),  nor  with  fiat ;  noitbar  with  dry,  cor  with  moist; 
and  ha  haa  earned  off  that  (atreipth,  etc.)  of  aine ;  will  ye  roc  Me  r" 

answered:  Let  tu  lure  n  shire  in  it,  and  w«  will  nxeeer  it.'  Indra  realini  '  I 
th all  V*  common  to  aa  all^  rccoTcr  it  therefor*.'  Tbtn  the  Aa'rins  and 
anointed  the  thaodcrbolt  with  the  foam  of*  the  waters,  enying. '  It  la  neither  dry  I 
moist-"  with  that  Indra  atrock  off  (he  brad  of  Nanorhi.  whan  night  waa  passing 
into  dean,  and  the  no  bad  aot  yet  risen,  when  (as  ha  said)  '  it  waa  neither  day  nor 
night.'  ....  Whan  his  head  had  been  rat  off.  the  eonu  remained  mixed  with  blood; 
anJ  tlwy  loathed  it-  fiat  baring  poremed  tbia  draught  of  tbe  two  aotnaa,  according 
to  the  text  •  King  Soma,  whan  poared  out,  u  nectar,'  they  with  lib  raado  the  other 
mixed  fluid  palntahlc,  and  swallowed  it"  (/aifrasya  istaWyaas  aaaaaaaw  raasat 
ffWMjya  aaaiaaoM  aumyn  nmra  Numuckir  aaansf,  so  'irimtm  elm  aanwrwriS  «Aa 
vpidiaral  ''/rauiao  I'm!  .Vdmn.-A.jye  «j  Iri  dtr*  ad  h»H*m  X*nimi  aa  don/jnut  aa 
fUaieMavi  me  priiktn*  urn  nutHitti  tm  iiuJtJuns  aa  Zrdrvn*  *lk*  ate  idsm  sliriilt  | 
U-m  at*  ZjiKfAtlA*  "  Hi  |  U  ,Arf«««  "«i«  ho  'rn'rjry  a/io  oWiima"  tli  |  "  MA4 
sm  tud  a«Aa  Sktfia"  iVy  -i/nvij  Hi  |  <av  a/ffMSM  el*  Svrtttnfi  cK*  afiUm  fbwi 
ewrnrin  aaiaeAaM  "aa  /«i*nAo  aa  ardrah"  iti  |  tma  Indro  Namitcktr  oiaraayt 
rj-wAftyi*  ratrmw  anudil*  aJtlyt  ■  n*  diti  ra  u*Jtlam  "  tli  Vim  A  urfariijeya(  ; 
rujya  iUAamt  eAAuMte  ffifH  mUnk  aasM  'ftaifaal  |  («moif  dJ>r*Au.'j«i.N  |  d 
miUAator  ripintm  npujyon  "tamo  rSJi  'mjitirm  iu(ah"  iti  Una  ftmm  learfan 
oVaiiMK  miadUf  I  Sot  also  8'atap.  Br.  xii.  7,  I,  10.  and  xii.  8.  3.  1,  quoted  by  I 
Commeatator  on  Yaj.  S.  19.  12.  nlirre  it  is  said  that  "  the  god*  instilated  a  reaga 
taehfice ;  the  Af'riu  were  the  physicians,  and  so  alto  waa  Saracrnti  with  cpeo-b  i 

uijitrtod  strength  to  Indra  "  Atiuth  yijnum  ttsnr*ia  bJutiej-im  iiwCup" 
roeAn  Mratml'i  4AmAj»  W."j.i  bdtififi  J-iJ\nl«k\.  Soe  also  Tceaaa  1/ 
80  S3,  oft  90,  63,  95 ;  a»l  ace  lion  20,  50  6>,  73-74,  90, 


AS   REPRESENTED   IN   TOE   RIG-VEDA. 


95 


i.  85,  7'"  {Vuknvr  yad  ha  &tad  trUkaaam  madachtfutam;  iv.  18,  11 
(quoted  above  p.  78  f.);  vi.  20,  2  [ahim  yadtfiitraia  apo  rarriclAsam 
Jutnm  fijlthin  FisAiyuJuJ  $achi~invh) ;  viii.  89,  IS  {Sakhf  Vithaa  tttard ft 
ftinmuws  Dyaur  debt  {oka  m  fqj  a  M*  |  fmnil  r«  vfiKram  it;,  ■ 

!,  4,  &  (Inrfru-ciafinii  driwhUQh.  Sambaratya  mva  puro  navtitiiii 
<ka  inaMthfam),  to  encounter  the  hostile  powers  in  the  ntnn> 
who  malerult-ntly  shut  up  the  watery  treasures  in  the  clouds.     These 
demons  of  drought,  called  by  a  variety  of  name*,  as  Vrittrn,11*  A  hi, 

IN  Benfey,  howtTer,  refers  this  piuwge,  i.  83.  7,  not  to  Indra.  bat  to  tho  soma. 

"»  Compare  i.  lo6,»:  vi.  17,  U;  Tiii.  12.  27;  til.  66*  10;  x.  113.  2,  in  whi/h 
|  assign  i—  wt'U  m  in  tfparnle   hymns,    i.   155;    vi.   tJ'J),   Imlin  ar.<!    ' 
connected.    The  S'attpstlia  Rrihnuigii  bos  the  foil  about   India   and 

;>':— "Formerly  Vrlttra  had  aithb  bin  nil  tin-  Hi 
8Aman  rerses.     Indn  was  anxious  to  discharge  a  ttjsmderboll  at  him  (?),  anil         ta 
a-ill  shoal  a  thunderbolt  ut  Vrittre  ;  follow  sfUr  me;.'     •  So  l>c  it."  said 
Viahrju,  •  1  will  follow  theo;  smite  birr..'    tabu  loan  i  dft.lt  Vfttbra, 

who  was  alarmed  at  it,  and  «jid  (3),  '  I  hnvo  thi»  (»our«s  of)  Strength  .  k  t    i 
it  aa  to  thecj  hut  do  nut  smite  mo.'     8o  he  k><«  bini  Uu  Xiejojb  IftfsM     Iudn 
theo  aimed  a  second  thunderbolt  it  him  ft),  when  be  said. '  I  have  this  (tosree  of) 
strength;  let  me  gite  it  up  Id  DM ■."     So  li«  (rare  the  R<k 

rerses.     Iodra  theo  aimed  a  third  t  t  him  (.5).  whoa  be  add,  I  hove  this 

(eeajree  of)  atrength;  let  tna  giro  it  up  to  I ••  n>  t  rmite  me.'    So  he  gars 

him  the  Sfisuo  Torses. ....  (7)  Indra  lifted  a|  >nu  followed 

lii-.ii."    (t'rittrt  ha  mi  ><!•>••>  agrt  tarram  u«a  pad  p'cAe  fad  yujiihili  pat  vimiini  | 
tmmai  Intra   tajram  prnjiMrahti  |  2.  m  An    ruamum   *r.«vU    ■*  I'riltrApa   twi' 
•e/rwM  praharuhpAmU  |  cm  eio  riutfAasra"  ■(■  |  MfUMM  M  A«  Rtftffa 
"mil  fee  .iMojja/mAar*'"  Hi  |  linui  /x.fru  rw/rwM  ntp*pama  |  <a  u 

.  MAay.ii«f  A«A>ir*  |  3.  M  Aii  v  |  I 

on>  |  ma  lu  mt  prtfiarth  HHSn  yei  ■*»**(  ptiff*tKhut  |  fo.-vn'  tlnl-num  ft- 

ysyaaM  |  ft.  ee  Aa  Mt-vrAs  "oaf-i  twi  i'd<iiS  rrryuwi  red  aw  fr  ftrnptthAam  |  »• 
jwalunAir"  i.'i  |  fiiassnt'  p*AeA  prapaehhat  |  laanui  rrir'ym  w/y«yii««  |  5.  (aa  An 
wnirAn]  "ajfi  r«i  i<Inai  riryom  |  fas'  no  r«  praynchhmi  \  wi?  fw  wr  j>niAiTr«i'i 
ttummi  timini  prayoe/ihal  |   7.  .  .  /it^ro  A«  iny»wiii   *<<;y*ri\jJ  t'itknwr  antalith- 
li*ts.)     Than  is  s  nmil.ii  *torr  in  the  Tint.  Sanh.  it  5,  1.  1.    Afai  is  ia  sersral 
places  (i.  109,  A,  7,  8  i  iii    '  .  x.0e,2)a-  Ufa  Imira  as  a  tAm 

dastiojtr  of  Vfiltia,  and  on  erortarawvi  ia,  too,  Is  in  one  plaou 

(ir.  41.  i   joined  with  Indn  aa  a  thundeftr. 

iittra'a  motlier  l).inu  aim  «n  along  with  hor  son,  slain  by  India,  and  alu-n 
skugBteeed  Is;  orer  him,  lilte  a  cow  out  her  oslf  (i.  32,  9,  nirAorayuA nbhatad  I 
pulra  Intra  at  yah  ara  ratXar  jabhara  |  uilara  liir  .t.l\nr.tf, 

nJUwaUa  na  dhtmiih).     Scrcn  II Jnu»  urr  I  a  B  7,  \.  liO.  6  {  =  Nirukta,  ii. 

21)  a  tarthatt  »<*•** -i  •  I  "  lie  clcnrcs  by  his  force  tho  irTcn  Dinns." 

Roth,  in  bis  illustrntiona  of  the  Nirukta,  p.  IfiO,  rcmuks  on  this  passage :  "Seven  is 
an  irtdellnite  onmber  applied  to  tho  fiasooa  of  the  sir  and  clouds,  who  ipp  i 
the  msnifbVi  nsmes  of  Ksmurlii,  Kuyars,  S'uUidb,  S'omhan,  Vsr. 
Donus  or  DSnsTaa,  to  whom  in  i.  32,  9,  a  mother  called  D>Ina  ia  aaaiga^U.*'    Tho 


96 


THE   DTDIAH   00D8   OF.XEEALLY, 


S'nshna,  Namuehi,  Pipru,  S'ambara,  Urana,  etc,  etc.  (i.  121,  9,  10; 
ii.  14,  4  ff. ;  riii.  32,  2,  3),  armed,  on  their  rido  also,  with  every 
variety  of  oolntial  artillery  (i.  32,  13,  na  aamai  tidyvd  tut  tanyatuh 
sithedha  na  yilm  miham  akirad  hradmtlSt  eJia),'"  attempt,  but  in  rain, 
to  resist  the  onset  of  the   gods.IT*     Heaven   and   earth  quake   with 

Eght  at  the  crash  of  Indra'a  thunder,  i.  fin,  11  [imt  chit  (ova  i 
yace  vtpcte  bhiyni'J  mah\  |  yad  Indira  rajrinn  ojatd  Vrittram  tnarutc&m 
niiM'iU  |  14.  abhithfam  U  adrico  yat  sthahjagut  cha  rt/tte);  ii.  11,  9 
(artjtt&ih  rodati  bhiy&ne  kanikradato  irUhno  tuya  vajrat  |  10.  mrorattd 
vrithno  a*ya  uyrah) ;  vi.  17,  9  (adha  dyaui  chit  le  apa  id  nu  rajrud  dtitd 
'nomad  bhiyaiu  trasya  mavyoh),  and  even  Tvashtri  himself,  who  forged 
the  bolts,  trembles  at  tho  manifestation  of  their  wiclder's  anger,  i.  80, 
1  I  7'i  nthfi'i  ehit  lava  m/tny.n-t  Judra  tecijyate  bhiyd).  The  encmie*  of 
Indre  are  speedily  pierced  and  shattered  by  the  discharge  of  hia  iron 
shafts,  i.  32,  5  {/than  Yr  ill  rum  rrittrntaram  tyamiam  Indro  cajrena  mahat* 
vadhtna  |  tkandhtiiiislta  kulisena  cicrikn'l  ahih  inyaU  upaprik  pfithieyuh), 
i.  67,  6;  i.  61,  10;  ii.  19,  3;  x.  89,  7  (Jaghuna  Yrittram  nadtotir 
vamta),  and  oven  by  flub  IWJ  mind,  ii.  27,  4  {Hat  lyal  U  indrtyam 
acktti  ytnCinuJhir  rarasikhatya  lithah  \  tajratya  yat  te  nihatasya  itukm&t 
svantil  chid  huha  JMTWM  dadilra) ;  viii.  ii,  1 3  (yad  atya  nanyur  adhxa- 
rifd  ti  vrittram  parcaso  rujan  |  apah  eamudram  airayal).  The  water*, 
released  from  their  imprisonment,  descend  in  torrents  to  tho  earth,  fill 
all  the  river*,  and  roll  along  to  the  ocean,  i.  32,  2  (erttruA  t'rn  dhenarak 
lynndamnnnh  anjah  mmudnm  aca  jagmur  ayah  |  12.  avutrijah  *artUm 
tapta  tindhUn);  i.  57,  G;  i.  61,  10 ;  i.  103,  2  (cajrena  hated  nir  apah 
iaiarja);  ii.  11,  2;  ii.  12,  12;  ii.  14,  2;  ii.  15,  3  (cajrrna  khani 
n) ;  ii.  19,  3  [Indro  arno  apUm  prairayad  Ahihu  'tkk* 
tamudram);  iii.  32,  K ;  iv.  17,  1;  v.  32,  1  (adardar  uttam  «p/o  n 
kkiui  tram  arnavtin  badbtulhrtwin  nrnmnilh  \  uiahantam  Indra  partatam 
vi  yad  caft  irijo  n"  dharuh  aca  Dunmaih  hau);  vi.  30,  4;  viii.  65,  3; 

Br,  i.  0,  •»,  Ift,  my*  that  Indra  is  llie  PD  I  tbc  raoou  (t*4  oai  ttha 

tra  Indro  pah  r*lU  ta/iati  |  ttkt  t.\ka  na  rrlltro  yat  chondroma}). 

tjaga  ■■■■*■■  ■■■■■i*  tan  lino  of  Out  HgbtnlDga,  (to.,  fashioned  bjr  VriUnft 

.'  rittroyZin  ti/ffuiUiilm  mtif/tyt 

m>  uiii'.ii-'i.  bum  '  lltmii  ainJ. ' 

'■•  VrlttnilHid,  in  a.   \0,  3  (according  te  BSj  <<j\-  ••; 
h.iTo  ru»hwl  upoo  Indra,  elotliol  in  o  Ami,  blrt  M  lm«  becu  »i«w«i  {miA*m 


IXDEVS   COMBATS    WITH    THE  CLOUD    DEMONS. 


97 


x.  133,  2.     The  gloom  which  had  overspread  the  sky  is  dispersed,  and 
the  nun  is  restored  to  I  OB  in  the  heavens  (i.  32,  4;  i.  51,  4, 

'/rain  yad  Indra  iateuA  avadhlr  Ahim  Ad  it  iftrjwR  tiiri  druhayo 
dfiit) ; '"'  i.  52,  8  [iiyacfihath-'ih  buhvor  xajram  dyaiam  adfvlrayo  diet  d 
iHrtmia  dr\i*) ;  ii.  19,  3.  Conntant  allusions  to  these  elemental  con- 
flict* occur  ia  nearly  every  part  of  the  Itig-veda  (i.  4,8;  i.  32,  1  ff. ; 
i  62,  2  ff. ;  i.  54,  4  ff.  |  i.  80,  1  ff. ;  i.  103.  2  ff.  |  ii.  1 1,  5  ff. ;  v.  32, 
Iff.;  x.  89,  7;  x.  113,  G),  and  the  descriptions  are  sometimes  cm- 
lirllisbed  with  a  certain  variety  of  imagery.  The  clouds  are  repre- 
sented os  mountains,  or  as  cities  or  fortresses  of  the  Asuras,  ii.  14,  6 
(jr«A  kttam  S-amiaratya  pun  bibheda  aimand  i'm  piirrlh);  viii.  17,  11 
(6A#7fci  purunt  iairati.iuM)  \  viii.  87,  6  {team  h  Sairatltttim  Intra  darttS. 
pur  Am  <mi),  which  are  variously  characterized  as  the  autumnal  (purah 
iAradih,  i.  131,  4  ;  vi.  20,  10),  the  moving  (puram  ehariahnram,  viii.  1, 
38),  and  the  iron  {Ayailh,  ii.  20,  8)  or  stone-built  (iv.  30,  20,  iaUm 
minuimayyn&m  pnr&m  Jndro  ryuiyat  |  Divoddstiya  diiituha) ,,°  cities  of 
the  Aturai  (or  atmospheric  demons),  which  Indra  overthrows  (i.  51,  5; 
i.  63,  7;  i.  103,  3;  i.  130,  7;  i.  174,  H;  ii.  19,  6;  ii.  20,  7;  iii.  12, 
G;  iv.  26,  3;  iv.  30.  13;  viii.  82,  2;  x.  89,  7).  He  casts  down  hia 
enemies  when  he  discovers  them  on  the  aerisl  mountains  (i.  32,  2, 
ahann  Ahim  parrala  ii&riydHam)  ;  i.  130,  7  (Atilhiyrflijn  S'urnbarain 
airtr  ugro  arulirat) ;  ii.  12,  11  {Yah  S'ambaram  partaUahu  kahiyantaik 
chatriiriAiyaA  iaradi  nwarindat);  iv.  30,  14  {uta  dtiiaat  kavlitaran 
hrthata*  ptinaldd  aihi  |  ar<Vmtin  Indrah  S'ambaram);  vi.  26,  5;  or 
hurls  them  beck  when  they  attempt  to  scale  tho  heavens  (ii.  12,  12 
yo  Haukinam  wphurad  i  ajro-btihur  dylm  urohanlam);  viii.  II,  14  (mdyd- 
bkir  uUifip*aUih  Indira  dynm  eirurukthatah  \  ata  tUnyun  adh^'-'HlMh). 
One  of  them  he  crushes  under  his  foot,  1,  61,  6  {Arhudai*  hi  kramlh 
padA),  or  piarcea  with  ice,  viii.  32,  26  (Aimsm  acidhyad  Arbudam). 
Ha  strikes  off  tho  head  of   Xamuchi  with  the  foam  of  tho  waters,"1 

,T»  8*yana  aadCTttsriJ*  the  list  words  to  mesa  thst  Indra  frsod  th*  son  which  had 

be*<l  hidden  by  VriUlS  ( J'rVrrivg*  StwtatJI  litiyam  U*mnd  rriltrid  sasSeaawt*}).     In 

i.  12,  4.  sad  ii.  10,  3,  lairs  u  uid  to  bats  gtticrsU-d  the  tun ;  which  amy  refer  to 
aa  actasl  creation,  snd  not  to  a  nacre  hnnpinf  into  ricw.  Ins.  At),  2,  Indra  seem* 
to  be  idenuned  with  the  tun  (m  turyoh),  sod  to  hue  destroyed  las  black  darkness  bj 
his  light  [kfulma  Uwuuk  it  ttiikya  jaghama). 

■**  Possibly  then*  may  b«  ordinary  terreitrisl  eiti«s;  ind  the  udh  cosy  be  the  esse 
is  regard  to  the  cities  alluded  to  in  corse  of  the  texu  nvsl  to  bo  cited. 

m  See  shore,  is  a  preceding  nuts. 


98 


INDBA'B  COMBATS   W1TI1  THE  CLOUD   DEMONS. 


viiL  14,  13  (apam  phtiuna  namuchth  sYraA  Indra-  udatartayah).  One 
his  opponents,  Urana,  is  described  as  a  monster,  with  ninety-nine  arms, 
ii.  14,  4  (yah  l/ranain  jaahana  tiara  chaklw&mtam  nocatiih  cha  ftdAtln); 
and  another  as  having  three  heads  ami  six  eyes,  z.  99,  6  («a  td  d&iam 
tuviracam  patir  dan  thalakthata  tri4\r*hanam  donanyat). 

The  growth  of  much  of  tho  imagery  thus  described  U  perfectly 
natural,  and  easily  intelligible,  particularly  to  persona  who  hare  lived 
in  India,  and  witnessed  the  phenomena  of  the  seasons  in  that  country. 
At  tho  close  of  tho  long  hot  weather,  when  every  one  i*  longing  for 
rain  to  moisten  the  earth  and  cool  the  atmosphere,  it  is  often  extremely 
tantalizing  to  see  the  clouds  collecting  and  floating  across  the  sky  di 
after  day  without  discharging  their  contents.  "*  And  in  tho  early  ages 
when  the  Vedic  hymns  were  composed,  it  waa  an  idea  quite  in 
nance  with  tho  other  general  conceptions  which  their  authors  ent 
tained,  to  imagino  that  some  malignant  influence  was  at  work  in  the 
atmosphere  to  prevent  tho  fall  of  tho  showers,  of  which  their  parched 
BdfM  stood  so  much  in  need.  It  was  but  a  step  further  to  personify 
both  this  hostile  power  and  the  beneficent  agency  by  which  it  was  at 
length  overcome.  Indra  i*  thus  at  once  a  torriblo  warrior  and  a 
gracious  friend,  a  god  whose  Bhafta  deal  destruction  to  his  enemies, 
while  they  bring  deliverance  and  prosperity  to  his  worshippers.  Tea 
phenomena  of  thunder  and  lightning  almost  inevitahly  suggest  the 
idea  of  a  conflict  between  opposing  forces ;  even  we  ourselves,  in  our 
more  prosuic  age,  often  speak  of  the  war  or  strife  of  the  elements.  The 
other  appearances  of  tho  sky,  too,  would  afford  abundant  materials  for 
poetical  imagery.  The  worshipper  would  at  one  time  transform  the 
fantastic  shapes  of  the  clouds  into  the  chariots  '"3  and  horses  of  hie  god, 
and  at  another  time  would  seem  to  perceive  in  their  pilcd-up  mosses 
the  citice  and  castle*  which  ho  was  advancing  to  overthrow. 


(5a)  Indra  t  greatmm. 

In  numerous  places  of  tho  Rig-veda,  the  highest  C\ 
and  attributes  axe  ascribed  to  Indra.     A  collection  of  the  most  striking 

1,1  In  tiii.  8,  1,  Indra  is  «omp»red  to,  and  therefore  distinguished  from,  Paijsnrs, 
the  nun-god  [nuiKnn  Indra  y«iA  ujutii  Purjauyo  vritMfiman  iVa  |  ulvmair  I'ttwj* 
tMvridht).     Ill  riii.  62.  1,  4,  he  is  identified  with  Surra,  the  Sun. 

■*•  Compare  Psalm  104,  3 .  Isaiah  19,  1 ;  Daniel  7,  13;  Matlh.  24,  30;  26,  64; 
Hsbakkuk  3,  8 ;  Ureal,  Herculo  ot  Cscut,  1*1  L 


INDB.VS    GREATNESS. 


99 


im  passage*  will  be  found  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  85-94. 
I  subjoin  some  additional  texts: 

i.  61,  H.  Atya  id  u  bhiyu  girayai  chu  dfilhiih  dyticd  cha  bhiimi 
jantuha*  iajtte  |  "Through  fear  of  him  when  he  is  born,  the  stablo 
Mountains,  and  heaven  and  earth,  are  ngitulcd." 

L  100,  1 mah«  dituh  prithivyii  e\a  itmruf  |   .  .  .  .    15.  iVa 

ya*ya  decuh  dtratu  n#  marttuk  apa4  ekana  Urato  anlam  upuh  |  "Tho 
monarch  of  the  great  heaven  and  of  the  earth  ....  16.  of  whoso  might 
neither  gods  by  thoir  divine  insight,  nor  men,  nor  waters  havo  attained 
th.  limit."  "• 

i.  101,  5.  To  viitatya  jagaiah  pranalat  patih  \  "  He  (Indra)  who  is 
the  lord  of  the  whole  moving  and  breathing  (world),"  etc. 

L  165,  9.  Anuttam  A  U  mtigfiavan  twkir  nu  nit  tnltun  atti  deratd 

tiduMtib  |  najdyamGno  nutate  na jdto  y&ni  karUhya  krinuhi  prarfiddJux  | 

i-  bj  in.idiing  unconquered  by  thee:  no  one  like  thee  in   known 

among  the  gods.     No  one  to  be  born,  or  yet  bom,  can  rival  thee.     Do, 

great  god,  whatever  thou  wiliest  do."    (Compare  iv.  18,  4.) 

i.  173,  8.  Pra  yad  iltka  makinU  nribhyo  tuii  araili  rodasl  kakthye  na 
u  |  "Since  Indra  is  so  superior  to  men,  heaven  and  earth  do  not 
for  his  girdle,"  etc. 

ii.  17,  5.  Sa  prAcklwiH  partatan  irimhad  *ja»a  adhariichlnam  alarod 
ap&m  apah    |   adfu'iriifnt  priir  //uam    attabhtiid    tniyayi 

Jyim  aratratak  \  "  He  has  settled  the  ancient  mountains  by  bis  might; 
he  has  directed  downwards  the  action  of  tho  waters.  Ho  has  supported 
the  earth,  the  universal  nurse.  By  his  skill  he  has  propped  up  tho 
sky  from  falling." 

iii.  30,  5  (quoted  above,  p.  30).  "When  thou,  0  Maghavan,  didst 
grasp  even  these  two  boundless  worlds,  they  were  but  a  handful  to 
thea."1** 

iii  34,  2.  Indra  ktkitln&m  a»i  muniuhlnarh  riiiim  dairlnam  mi  p«r- 
njrurti  |  "Indra,  thou  art  the  leader  of  the  human  races,  and  of  tho 
divine  people.  7.  Tudheniro  mahnd  varirai  chalura  deiehhyah  \  "  In 
battle  and  by  his  power  he  has  acquired  wealth  for  the  gods." 

iii.  46,  2.  Eke  vihaiya  bhuraaatya  rSji  |  3.  Pra  mdtrabhth  riruh* 
rochaminah  pra  dtvtbhir  viitelo  apratUah  \  pra  majmana  duah  Indrak 

<**  Ssn  rVsfav's  TrtniUtioo  is  Orient  and  Occidtal  ii-  61a. 
»»  Osmpar*  I  with  il,  13. 


100 


INDRA'8   GREATNESS. 


;  hUm 


prtthicy/lh  pra  vror  maho  cmUrikthad  pjitM  |   "Thou,  who  alone 

the  king  of  the  whole  world,  etc 3.   India  luminous,   has 

surpassed  all  measures;  in  every  respect  unequalled,  he  has  surpassed 
the  gods;  the  impetuous  deity  lias  surpass*!  in  greatness  the  heaven 
and  the  earth,  and  the  broad  ami  v:w.  HtfDttphflre.*' 

iv.  17,  2.  Tara  tvuho  janiman  rejata  Dyauh  rtjad  Rh&mir  bhiyatd 
acatya  manyoh  |  "At  the  birth  of  tine,  the  glorious  009,  the  heaven 
trembled,  and  Uie  earth,  through  fear  of  thy  wrath,"  cte.  (Compare 
iv.  22,  3,  4). 

iv.  18,  4.  Nahi  Ml  atya  pratimanam  asli anlar  jtitethu  ula  ytjanifca 
"  He  has  no  parallel  among  those  born  or  who  are  to  be  bom." 

t.  30,  5.  Paro  yat  team  paramah  ajanithfhnh  paraeali  trutyam 
libhrat  |  aiai  chid  Indrdd  abhayanta  dtifih  |  "  When  thou  wert  born, 
the  highest  and  supreme,  bearing  a  nnmo  renowned  afar,  the  gods 
then  ufmid  of  Indra,"  etc. 

v.  42,  G.  Vsnitsto  apratUatya  jiihmnr  ajQryatah  pra  bruvA 
trim  j  ho  te  parte  magharati  na  aparAso  rut  vlryaHi  nUtanah  kai 
Spit  |  "  Lot  us  declare  the  deeds  of  the  unrivalled,  victorious,  undecay- 
ing  god,  who  is  attended  by  the  Maruts.  Neither  bare  former  nor 
later  (beings),  nor  has  any  recent  (being)  attained  to  thy  ■valour."  m 

vi.  24,  8.  Xii  vilare  namats  Hit  tthiriiya  tut  iardhate  thtynjiitay* 
ttarOn  \  ajrah  Indruya  girayai  chid  ri*h\*~th  gambhirt  chid  bhavaU 
gildham  MM!  I  "  When  lnudod,  he  doct)  not  bow  before  the  strong, 
nor  the  firm,  nor  the  presumptuous,  impelled  by  the  Dasyu.  Moun- 
tains, though  lofty,  ore  plains  to  Indra,  and  in  that  which  is  deep  be 
finds  a  bottom."     Compare  viii.  82,  10. 

vi.  30,  1,  quoted  above,  p.  30  f.  "  Indra  has  surpassed  the  heaven  and 
the  earth.  The  two  worlds  are  but  equal  to  the  half  of  him."  (Com p. 
x.  119,  7.) 

vi.  30,  5.  R«jA  'bhavo  jugalai  ehanhjtnlniirli  »skain  tilryaih  j'anaya* 

dytim  unhAtam  \  "  Thou  hast  Iwcome  the  king  of  things  moving,  and  of 

men,  generuting  nt  once  the  Sun,  the  Iltavcn,  the  Dawn."     (Compare 

IB.  49,  4.) 

viii.  6,  15.  Ai  dyiiiah  Iniratn  ojasd  no  anlarihhAni  tajrigam  |   M 

'»  In  riii.  73  3,  II  i-  •  M  lasl  ItSn,  Hia  a  terriflo  kail,  cannot  be  stopped  either 
by  icmlx  or  meu  *«cn  be  winhcf  to  be  RcnervuB  (mi  f««  iur*  d*rikns  mmrUam  J,i 
tarn  I  Minima  na  gam  rampantr). 


INDEX'S  GREATNESS. 


m: 


Ti   eytthanUt   bhamayah   |     "Neither   heavens,   nor  atraospharea,  no*"".", 
earths,  have  ©quailed  Indra  the  thundorer  in  might." 

viii.  12,  30.  Yad&  suryam  amioh  diri  iukraih  jyolir  adhdrayak  \  dd 
it  U  riitu  bhuranSni  yemire  |  "  When  thou  (Indra)  didst  place  yonder 
sun  a  brilliant  light  in  the  *ky,  then  ull  worlds  submitted  to  thee." 
(Comparo  vi.  .10,  2.) 

Tiii.  14,  9.  Indrena  roehana  divo  drilhdni  driSihitdmi  cha  |  tthirdni 
na  parilnude  |  "Dy  Indru  the  Hghta  of  the  sky  huvo  boon  fixed  and 
established.     Those  which  are  established  he  bus  not  removed." 

Tiii.  15,  2.  Yatya  dvibarhato  brihat  iaho  dadhdra  rodatX  |  gir\n  ajrdn 
*pah  urtr  rrY«/m<rfl«a  |  "Of  which  mighty  god  the  great  vigour  sup- 
ported the  two  world*,  the  mountain*,  plains,  waters,  and  heavens." 

Tiii.  51.  7.  Viir-t  U  Indra  viryaih  dirdh  anu  kraluih  daduh  [  "All 
the  gods,  ludra,  yield  to  thee  in  vigour  and  strength." 

riii.  78,  2.  D*rui  U  Indra  inkhyuya  yemire  \  "  The  gods,  o  Iodra, 
■ought  after  th]  l'rienclnhip."    (Compare  Tiii.  87,  3.) 

riii.  82,  5.  Yad  rrt  pratriddha  talpatt  "mi  MTV*"  ••'<  iminyau  | 
uto  tat  mt yam  it  taca  \  "  Tlint  which  thou,  o  powerful  lord  of  the 
good,  expected,  '  I  shall  not  dio,'  proves  true."  (Compare  x.  86,  11, 
quoted  above,  p.  82.) 

viii.  85,  4.  ilanya  tvii  yayiiiyaiii  yajniydndm  manye  Ira  dkjMMsMl 
*<J\yu(di\>iut  |  man  ye  ltd  *atvantim  Indra  kttum  manye  tea  vriikitbhath 
charthanitium  |  ....  6.  Tarn  u  thtac&ina  yah  imu  jdjUna  viicu  jutdm 
arsruni  atmut  |  .  .  .  .  0.  Aimyudhuto  aturdh  aJerdf  chakrena  tun  apa 
rapa  rijUhin  |  "I  reg.-ird  thee,  ludra,  as  the  moat  adorable  of  the 
•lie,  the  caster  down  of  the  unshaken,"7  the  most  distinguished 

of  living  things  l\w  ehlof  of  brings 6.  Let  us  praise  this  Indra 

who  produced  these  (worlds) :  all  beings  are  inferior  (or  subsequent)  to 
him.  ....  9.  The  Asuras  are  without  weapons  and  are  no  gods : 
sweep  them  away  with  tl  I  '*    (Comparo  vi.  18,  10),  where  he  in 

to   consume  the   Uakshases  with  his   bolt  as  firo  a  dry  forest : 
p*ir  na  itukkm'n  canam  Indra  hull  rakiho  ni  dhakahi  aisinir  na  bklmtl). 
viii.  86,  14.   7\ad  viinlni  bhmandni  tajrin  dyiiiu  rtjiU  pfithkl  eka 
bknhtl    I     "All  worlds,  thundercr,  both  heaven   and   earth,  tremble 
through  fear  of  thee." 

x.  44,  8.  Girin   ajrdn  rtjamdndn  adhdrayai  Dyauk  krandad  anU- 
w  The  IfaniU  arc  «uiil  to  lime  the  snnic  power  (i.  M,  9). 


IKDRA'S   GItE.lTNF.S3. 


.  •_. 


'•jikthuni  lopayat  \   "  Ho  sustained  the  quaking  mountains  and  plaint: 
tin-  sky  resounded  ;  ho  shook  the  atmosphere,"  etc.  (Compare  ii.  12 

x.  51,  1.  Tdm  eu  to  ktrttim  maphacan  maiitcd  yal  frit  bhlU  rodtuX 
ahayetdm  |  prdvo  dcvdn  ....  2.  Yad  acharas  tanril  mrriiham  batiiu 
Jndra  prabruvdno  jantthu  \  mdyd  it  sd  U  yarn'  yuddh&ui  dhur  m  adya 
latrufit  t\a  purd  vivitat  |  3.  Kah  n  nu  tt  mahimanak  sammya  atmat 
pHrce  rUhayo  antam  dpuh  |  yad  mdttiram  tha  pitarat*  cha  tdiam  b;«m- 
yatha*  tancdh  iv&yah  I  6.  Yo  adadhuj  jyotiihi  jyotir  antar  y*  atrijad 
madhiH'i  tarn  madh&ni  \  "  (I  celebrate),  Magbsvan,  thy  glory  in  that 
through  thy  greatneu  the  terrified  worlds  invoked  thee.     Thoa  didat 

deliver  the  godt,  ete 2.  When  thou  didst  march  on  increasing 

in  thy  magnitude?,  proclaiming  thy  strength  amongst  men,  thy  combaU 
which  they  describe  wore  (the  proofs  of)  thy  power ;  neither  now  nor 
before  dost  thou  know  of  any  enemy.  .1.  Which  of  all  the  seen  before 
us  have  found  out  the  end  of  all  thy  grratnew  ?  Hieing  that  thou  didst 
produce  nt  once  tho  father  nnd  tlio  mother  (heaven  nnd  earth)"*  from 
tliino  own  body.  6.  He  placed  light  in  light,  and  imparted  to  sweet 
iliin;:i  tin  It  nreetsMh" 

i.  89,  4.  Yo  afohencra  chalcriijd  Stithlbhir  riihrak  taatambha  prithitim 
tif.ii  Jifdm  |  10.  Judrit  divcth  Indrah  lie  pfitkiryiik  Judro  ajtum  1ml rah  it 
parcat&ndm  |  "  (Indra)  who  by  his  powers  holds  asunder  Heavun  and 
Earth,  as  tho  two  wheels  of  a  churiot  arc  kept  apart  by  the  axle. 
Iudru  rules  over  the  sky,  Jndra  rules  over  the  earth,  Indra  rules 
over  tho  water*,  and  Indra  rules  over  tho  mountains,"  etc. 

x.   102,   12.   Tr<tm  fisvatya  ja fatal  thakthur  Luiydsi  chak»Ku*hah 
"  Thou,  Indra,  art  the  eye  of  all  moving  things  that  see." 

X.  138,  6.  Mdtam  tidfiutiam  adadhuh  adhi  dyari  ttayd  tihhintutm 
lharati pradhim  pita  |  "Thou  (Indra)  host  ordained  tho  (course  of  the) 
months,  in  the  heaven :  the  father  (the  sky)  has  u  circumference  divided 
by  thee." 

In  some  places  (iv.  19,  2  ;  ir.  21,  10)  Indra  is  called  umrdf,  or  uni- 
versal monarch,  in  other  places  (iii.  46,  1 ;  iii.  49,  2;  vii.  82,  2 ;  viii. 
12,  14)  tvardf,  a  self-dependent  sovereign.      In  viii.  6,  41,  he 
called  "an  ancient  riehi,  ruling  alone  by  his  might"  IjUhir  hi 
tajdh  ati  elah  tidnah  ojaid).    In  i.  174,  1 ;  viii.  79,  6,  he  is 
as  iwura,  "  the  divine." 

m  Sec  sboTe  p.  30. 


■ 


INDRA'S  RELATIONS   WITH   UIS  WORSHIPERS. 


103 


The  preceding  passages  afford  a  fair  specimen  of  tho  language  in 
which  India  is  most  commonly  celebrated  in  the  hymns.  It  will  be 
observed  that  the  attributes  which  are  ascribed  to  him  are  chiefly  those 
of  physical  superiority,  and  of  dominion  over  the  external  world.  In 
fact  ho  is  not  generally  represented  as  possessing  the  spiritual  elevation 
and  moral  grandeur  with  vttan  Voruna  is  so  often  invested. 

(6)  Indra't  relations  with  hit  worthipptri. 

There  are,  however,  many  passage*  in  which  Indra's  close  relations 
with  his  worshippers  are  described,  and  a  few  in  which  an  ethical 
character  is  attributed  to  him.  Faith  in  him  is  confessed,  or  enjoined 
in  the  following  texts : 

i.  55,  5.  Adha  chnna  trad  dadhati  tciihlmat*  TndrHya  vajrailt  nigha- 
niyknata  radham  |  "  lieu  huvu  faith  in  the  fiery  Imlra  when  he  hurls 
■gain  and  again  his  destroying  thunderbolt." 

i.  102,  2.  Am*  iuryd-chandramcuu  abhichakih*  traddht  lam  Mr* 
€ Kara  to  ciiariuram  |  "  Sun  and  moon  move  alternately,  o  Indru,  that 
we  may  behold,  and  have  faith." 

i.  103,  5.  Tad  tuy<*  idant  patyata  hhuri ptuhfam  trad  Indratya  dhal- 
Una  rlrydya  |  "  Ilchold  this  his  great  abundance,  and  hare  faith  in  tha 
prowes*  of  Indru." 

i.  104,  6.  M'l  antar&m  hhujum  fl  rirUha  nttk  traddhitam  U  makaU 
indriyaya  |  7.  Adka  many*  irat  U  atmai  adh&yi  vritkd  thodatca  makaU 
dkauuya  \  "  (>.  Do  not  injure  our  future  production :  we  have  put 
faith  in  thy  great  power.  7.  I  surely  bulievo  that  faith  has  been 
reposed  in  thee  :  vigorous  god,  advance  us  to  great  wealth.'' 

i.  108,  6.  Tad  abraeam  prathamaik  pdA  rfigdno  ayam  tomo  aturair 
no  vihatyah  |  tdm  tatyGm  iraddham  abhi  a  hi  ydtam  atha  tvmatya  piba- 
tan  tuteuya  |  ''  Since  I  said  at  first,  when  supplicating  you  twain 
(Indra  and  Agni)  '  this  soma  is  to  be  offered  by  as  for '"  tho  divine 
beings ; '  come  now,  in  consideration  of  this  true  faith,  and  drink  tho 
poured-out  soma." 

In  vi.  26,  6,  the  poet  says:  Im&h  yak  ydcak  »a  jan<l\eh  Indrak 
u-hh&mi  id  hridi  mamun  ehid  Tndraw%  |  "These  cows,  o  men,  ore 
India :  J  desire  India  with  my  heart  and  soul." 

In  ix.  113,  2,  truth,  faith,  and  austere-fervour  are  enjoined  on  tho 
M  See  Brtifty't  TrsniUtion  and  note,  Orient  and  Ooeident,  iii.  149. 


104 


IXDHA-S    RELATIONS    WITH    HIS   WORSHIPPERS. 


worshipper :  ritarHlena  tatyena  traddhayi  tapaiO  tut  ah  Indrnya  Indo 
paritrara  |  "  Poured  out  with  holj  words,  with  truth,  with  faith,  with 
nualcrn-forvour,  o  Soma,  flow  for  Indra." 

X.  160,  3.  Yak  viata  WlMrf  tomam  aimai  tarrahridd  drralamah 
tunoti  |  na  yah  Indra*  tatya  paradadati  ityddi  |  "Indra  docs  not 
abandon  the  cattle  of  the  man  who  loves  tho  gods,  and  with  a  longing 
soul  and  with  all  hit)  heart  pours  out  libations  of  soma-jui. c" 

And  the  reality  of  his  existence  aud  power  is  asserted  in  opposition 
to  faithless  or  sceptical  doubts  iu  tho  following : 

ii.  12,  6.  Yam  ei/w  pj-it/umti  htha  ttti  ghorain  uta  \m  Hhttr  na  ethv 
etti  iti  mam  |  w  aryah  puthftr  tijah  iea  m  aminati  trad  tumai  dhatta 
ta  janatah  fndrah.  |  "That  drewllttl  Ix-ing,  of  wham  they  n*k  'whore 
is  he,'  und  of  whom  they  suy  *  ho  is  not '  [or,  '  this  is  not  he '],  he 
carries  away  the  wealth  of  the  foe,  as  a  gamester  the  stakes ;  put  faith 
in  him,  he,  o  men,  ia  Indra." 

vi.  18,  3.  Aiti  *rid  nu  clryam  tat  t$  Indra  na  tvid  atti  tad  ritutha  ci 
tochah  |  4.  Had  id  hi  te  turijatasya  many*  sahah  sahithtka  |  "  3.  Does 
thut  prowess  belong  to  thco,  Indra,  or  does  it  not?  tell  as  truly.  4. 
Thy  strength,  o  thou  strongest  of  beings,  who  art  great  by  nature,  is 
really  existing." 

viii.  89,  3.  Pra  nu  tfamam  bharata  vujayantah  Indr&ya  tatyam  yadi 
tatyam  aeti  \  "na  Indro  adi"  Hi  ntmah  u  tvuh  ilia  kah  \m  dadarim  kam 
abhi  ttavuma  |  4.  ayam  asm*  jaritah  pasya  meha  riSrd  jiiluni  abhi  ami 
mahml  |  "3. Present  to  Indra  a  hymn  soliciting  food,  a  true  hymn,  if 
ho  truly  exists.  '  Indra  does  not  exist,'  says  some  one ;  '  who  ha»  *-m 
him  ?  whom  shall  we  praise  ?'  4.  *I  am  here,  o  worsliipper '  (exclaim* 
Indni) ;  'behold  me  here.     I  surpass  all  creatures  in  greatness.'  " 

Indra  is  tho  friend,  and  even  tho  brother,  of  hi*  present  worshippers, 
as  he  was  the  friend  of  their  forefathers,  ii.  18,  3 ;  ii.  20,  3 ;  iii.  53,  5 
(a"  tha  ytihi  Indra  hhrutah,  "come,  brother  Indra") ;  iv.  17,  18;  iv.  23, 
<; ;  vi.  18,  (pratnafa  takhyam,  "ancient  friendahip") ;  vi.  21,  6  {id& 
hi  U  Ktt-ithatah  pmrajah  pratnutah  a*uh  purutp't  takhayah,  "for  now 
men  resort  to  thec  continually,  and  the  ancients  born  of  old  wan  thy 
friends")1";    8   (tram   hi  dpih  pradivi  pU^s&iii   iaitad  babhith*  | 

'•°  Tht  word*  ry«A  (H  ut  explained  \>j  Sav»9»  ss  =  ndxijula),  tit  ►»«,  "  beiag  a 

TWCT." 

'►'  Sw  the  3rd  vol.  of  thii  w*rk.  p.  221.    The  pssuge  is  differently 
Bsafsy,  Glc«.  to  S.  T.  p.  74.  ocl.  I. 


INDKA-3    RELATIONS    WITH    HIS   WORSHIPPED . 


in". 


"For  thou  wast  always  a  friend  of  our  fathers");  ri.  45,  1,  7; 
•Hi.  21,  9;  viii.  4,  7;  riii.  45,  1  ff.,  16,  18;  riii.  50,  U;  riii.  57, 
11  (  Yatya  r>  ttddu  takhyam  Mfddrl  pranitik  |  "Thou  whoso  friend- 
ship ia  aw«t  and  b wool  thy  guidance");  riii.  81,  33;  viii.  82,  3; 
riii.  86,  7  ;  -viii.  89,  2  ;  x.  22,  1  £.  ;  x.  23,  7  (mri  kir  nah  end 
aaihyd  «'  yautktu  iava  cha  Indra  Timndu*ya  chit  rinhrh  \  "  Let  not 
these  frirndl}*  relations  of  our*,  of  thee,  o  Indra,  and  tho  riahi 
Yimada,  he  diaaol  ved  ") ;  x.  42,  1 1  (Indrah  purattad  via  madhyato  nah 
tnkkii  ulhibhyo  carivch  krinotu  \  "  May  Indra,  a  friend,  grant  riches 
to  us  his  friends  before  and  in  the  middle ").  He  chooses  for  his  in- 
timate the  man  who  presents  offerings,  hut  desires  no  friendship  with 
him  who  offers  no  libations  (x.  42,  4  :  Atra  yujaiit  kfinute  t/o  haitahm&n 
mm  anmeatd  takhyam  vathfi  iflrah).  Ho  is  reminded  that  he  has  fricuda 
while  his  adorers  are  friendless  (viii.  21,4:  Vayam  hi  tea  bandhuman- 
tam  abandkav*  riprdiah  Indra  ytmima).  He  ia  not  only  o  friend,  but 
a  father,  and  tho  moat  fatherly  of  father*  (iv.  17,  17:  Sakha  pita 
pitptamah  pitrlndm).  As  such  he  is  invoked  by  men  (x.  48,  1 :  JIdm 
hat  ant*  pilar  am  na  jantatak  |  Compare  1,  104,  9,  and  vii.  32,  3,  26). 
He  is  both  father  and  mother  (viii.  87,  11:  Tram  hi  nah  pita  rata 
team  milta  iatalrato  babhtivitha  |  compare  riii.  1,  6).  In  one  place 
(riii.  81,  82)  the  adoring  poet  exclaims  :  "  Thou  art  ours  and  wo 
are  thine"  {tram  aamdkaih  tat*  muni).  He  is  the  helper  of  the  poor 
(viii.  09,  3 :  radhra-thodanam)  ;  the  only  helper  to  whom  hia  wor- 
shipper baa  recourse  (ibid.  1  :  na  hi  anyam  bald  'krtram  marditdram). 
He  alone  among  the  gods  hoe  a  lore  for  mortals  (vii.  23,  5  :  cko  deratrd 
dtsyata  hi  mtrtydn),  and  is  their  hclpor  (i.  84,  19 :  na  lead  any  a  mayhm 
tann  aili  marditd  Indra  brarlmi  (t  tarhak  j  viii.  55,  13:  na  hi  trad 
anyak  pamkuta  laiehan*  maykavann  atti  marditd)  ;  all  men  share  in. 
hia  benefits  (riii.  64,  7  :  yat  chid  hi  iairatdm  am  Indra  tddhdr<tni%* 
tram).  He  ia  the  deliverer  and  the  advocate  (or  comforter)  of  his 
servants  (riii.  85,  20:  $a  prueitd  maykatd  na  'dhicaktd),  and  tluir 
atrength  (vii.  31,  6:  tct  apt  kratur  mama).  He  is  a  wall  of  fb 
(viii.  69,  7  :  Indra  dfihyatra  ptir  ati).  His  friend  is  never  slain  or  con- 
quered (x.  152,  1  :    na  yatya  hanyate  takhd  no  jlyata  kadd  chana).** 

m  The  mc  is  aid  of  Milra,  iii.  69,  3,  aod  of  the  Morals,  r.  &i,  7.  Comp«ra  vii. 
SO,  1;  rii.  32,  It ;  viii.  10,6  ;  vui.  j>,  11.  In  viii.  0'J,  4,  h»  it  preyed  to  guard 
kit  wonaijipct"t  cliori.it.  and  to  bring  it  forward  from  lli«  rear  into  the  via  {Imdra 


106 


lXDRA'S    RELATIONS  WITH   HIS  WORSHIPPERS. 


Hi*  powerful  arms  aro  resorted  to  for  protection  (vi.  47,  8 :  ruhrS  u 
Indra  tthaviratya  btiha  upa  $l«yAina  £aran(l  bfihantu).  He  i»  invoked 
as  a  mighty  protector  and  deliverer  easy  to  be  entrested  (ibul.  1 1  : 
tmliiram  Indram  avit&ram  Indrath  haet  havt  tukaram  iiram  Indra  mi. 
The  worshippers  assume  that  Indru,  though  far  off,  is  not  afflicted  with 
dcufnciw,  but  hears  distinctly  their  invocations  (viii.  4.'i.  17  :  uta  IcC 
alud&iram  tayafk  irulkarnaA  tanUtm  Utaye  \  dtlrtld  ita  hacamakt).  His 
tight  hand  is  grasped  by  suppliants  for  riches  (x.  17.  1 :  Jaijnhkm* 
It  dakthinam  Indra  haitaiii  cai&yaco  vatupata  rosflndm).  The  loving 
praises  of  his  worshippers,  uttered  from  the  soul,  proceed  to  him  as 
messengers,  and  touch  his  heart  (x.  47,  7  :  nwlrdito  mama  d&t&aah 
Indram  Homni  eharanti  tumatlr  iyandk  \  hridUpriio  n*»a*A  etvkytmd- 
ndk).  The  imploring  poet  with  his  hymn  seizes  the  skirts  of  the 
god's  robe,  as  a  son  his  father's  (iii.  03,  2 :  pitur  na  pulrak  ticham 
Qrabhg  U  Indra  ttadiikfnaya  giro  iaehlvah).  He  is  clasped  by  toe 
ardent  hymns  of  his  votaries  as  a  husband  is  embraced  by  his  loving 
wivf'tt  (i.  62,  1 1  :  patim  na  painlr  uiatlr  uiantam  tpriianti  fed  sacs- 
bJMM  manuhdh  |  i.  186,  7:  tarn  Im  girojanayo  na pat»\h  swabhithia- 
mam  nardrh  natanta  j  x.  48,  1  :  achha  me  Indram  matayak  itarcidak 
sadhrlctor  vihtlA  uiatlr  an&shala  \  pari  sfwajanU  janayo  yatkd  pa  tin 
maryam  imdkyum  mayhar/lnam  iitaye  |  Comp.  ii.  16,  9)."*  The  hymns 
run  to  him  and  lick  him,  as  cows  their  calves  (x.  119,  4  :  upa  sid 
niatir  atthita  rdsrd  putram  iva  prtyam  |  i.  186,  7 :  uta  nah  Im  maUyo 
aieayoyiih  iiium  na  giicat  tarunam  rihanti).  He  is  entreated  not  to  be 
lazy  liko  a  priwt  (viii.  HI,  30:  mo  nhu  brahmava  tandrayttr  bkaca  raji- 
rfjm  pate) ;  and  not  to  allow  other  worshipper*  to  arrest  his  horses 
when  conveying  him  to  the  abode  of  the  suppliants  who  would  satisfy 
him  with  soma-libations,  but  to  overleap  the  bonds  by  which  all  other 
candidates  for  his  favour  seek  to  confine  him  as  fowlers  to  snare  a  bird, 
and  to  pass  quickly  by  them  as  he  would  over  a  barren  desert  (ii.  H, 
H :  Mo  t\i  tvdm  attra  baharo  hi  ripr&h  ni  riraman  yajamAtt&to  amye  |  iii. 
25,  5 :  m&  te  hart  vpuhan&  vltapriah(hd  ni  flranunt  yajamantoo 


pro  no  fathom  oaa  paieKat  ehil  lantam  adricaJi  |  purattad  nam  mi  *pVAi  | 
lent*  5  and  6).  8o«  u.  27,  19 

"*  In  viL  101,  5,  th«  worshipper  prav>  that  his  hymn  may  cling  arrmnd   India 
and  Soma  ss  s  girth  clupa  a  hocae  (pari  aim  Hit*  tittrtoA  iym  mati)  km 
'Itat*  ttyno). 


z 

„<     I.,.!.. 


IKDBA'S   BELATIOKa   WITH    HIS  WOHSSIPI'SES. 


107 


ati  dydhi  iairato  vayam  te  arafh  tulebhih  krinatflma  imnaih  |  iii.  45,  1 : 
d  mandrair  Indra  haribhir  ydhi  maydraromabhih  |  md  ted  ktchin  ni 
yaman  ri*  na  p&iinah  ati  dhanva  iva  l&n  ihi  |  x,  160,  1 :  tlvratym 
ahhieayasah  atya  ydhi  iormrathii  vi  hart  iha  mtmeha  |  Ihdra  md  ted 
yajamdntiwh  anyt  ni  rlraman  tubhyam  inu  tutdtah).  He  is  the  king 
of  things  moving,  of  men,  and  of  nil  terrcntrisJ  things;  and  out  of  this 
abundance  he  bestow*  wealth  on  the  man  who  brings  oblations  to  him 
(rii.  27,  8 :  Indra  raja  jagatai  rhanhanlfium  ttdhi  kihami  riihur&pam 
yad  atti  \  talo  dadati  ddiiuhe  vanlni  ehodai  rddhah  npattutai  ehid 
wvdt).  Both  his  hands  are  full  of  riches  (ni.  37,  3 :  ubhd  te  pQrnd 
■atvmi  galhatti).  He  is  a  magazine  replenished  with  wealth,  whom 
the  worshipper  urges  to  liberality  (z.  42,  2  :  lofaffi  na  yarnam  vanmd 

•urn  d  chydraya  maghadtydya  i&ram).  Manifold  aids  shoot  out 
from  him  as  branches  from  a  tree  (vi.  24,  3 :  trihhatya  na  te  punt- 
hfita  eaydh  ti  Utayo  ruruhur  Indra  pdrclh).  He  is  asked  to  sliower 
satisfying  wcjJUi  oo  his  adorers,  as  a  man  with  a  hook  shakes  down 
ripe  fruit  from  ■  tree  (iii.  46,  4 :    erihham  pakcam  ykalam  anil  ira 

'■■i  Indra  ta mpura path  vani).  Compare  ix.  97,  53.  Neither  gods 
nor  men  can  arrest  him  in  his  course  when  he  is  bent  on  liberality,  as 
a  terrific  bull  cannot  be  stopped,  viii.  70,  3  {na  hi  trd  i&ra  <frruA  M 
i**rtd*o  diUantam  \  bhlmafii  na  gdth  cdrayanU).  Compare  viii.  83,  8, 
and  iv.  IS,  14.  His  friendship  is  indestructible:  he  is  prayed  to 
be  a  cow  to  the  man  who  desires  one,  and  a  horse  to  the  man  seek- 
ing  a  hone  (vi.  45,  26 :  dQndiafn  takhyafit  tata  gaur  ati  tira  gatyatt  \ 
airo  aitdyatt  bhara).  Ho  give*  wives  to  those  who  had  none  (t. 
:,\,  I  :  amendtki  ehij  janiratai  chakartha  |  iv.  17,  10:  janiyanto  jani- 
dim  althitotim  d  chydeaydmah).  Tie  richly  rewards  his  faithful 
servants  and  adorers  (ii.  12,  6 :  yo  raihnuya  chiidild  yah  kriiatya  yo 
hrahmamo  nddhandntuya  k\r<h  |  14  :  yah  nneanUm  aeati  yah  pachantatn 
yah  iaihtaniafa  yak  Mmiius  it\  |  ii.  19,  4:  so  aprailni  manave  ptt- 
rini  Indra  daiai  ddituha  |  ii.  22,  3 :  dutd  rddhah  situate  kdmyam  vow). 
The  days  dawn  prosperously  on  the  man  who  says  "  come,  let  us  pour 
out  libstioos  to  Indra  "  (v.  37,  1  :  t-amai  amridhrdh  wsAose  pi  uthhdn 
yak  "  Indrdya  tunardma  "  ity  dha).  Tjo  king  in  whose  house  the  god 
drinks  soma  mixed  with  milk  suffers  no  calamity,  marches  at  the  head 
of  his  hosts,  slays  his  enemy,  and  lives  tranquilly  at  home,  in  the  enjoy* 
Beat  of  happiness  (ibid.  4 :  na  ta  rdjd  ryathatt  yatminn  Indra*  Derail 


108 


INDRA'S    RELATIONS   WITH    IMS    Vor.SniPPKUS. 


tomam  pibali  goiakhayam  \  8.  tatvanair  ajali  hanti  rriUraw  ktheii  kthilik 
tubhago  nama  ptuhyan  |  Compare  the  next  verse-).  His  friend  is  hand- 
some, possesses  horses  and  cows,  rides  in  a  chariot,  and  enjoys  always 
a  life  of  opulence,  and  goes  radiant  into  tho  assembly  (riii.  4,  9:  ssvi 
rufAi  ittrupuh  id  gomAn  id  lndra  t«  taJthd  \  isdtrahhAjaXH  rayatti  tackalt 
tada  clutndro  y&fi  eabhdm  upa).  Indra  is  gladdened  by  the  praises 
of  the  pious  man,  whether  learned  or  unlearned  (viii.  £0,  9 :  aripro 
v&  yad  attidhad  vipro  ta  Indra  te  vacfiah  |  sa  pra  mandat  ttdyA. 
Compare  viii.  81,  IS).  He  is  prayed  to  deliver  to-day,  to-morrow,  next 
day,  and  every  dny,  und  both  by  day  and  night  (viii.  50,  1 7 :  adya 
adya  itah  itah  Indra  tr&tva  pare  c/m  nah  |  tUvH  cha  no  jaritrln  eatpaU 
aha  divu  naklaiii  cha  rak*hi«huh  |  Compare  viii.  53,  6).  Tho  god  is,  how- 
ever, sometimes  naively  importuned  to  be  moro  prompt  in  his  liberality. 
41  Gracious  otc  thy  bands,  o  Indra  (the  post  erina  in  iv.  21, 9),  beneficent 
thy  fingers,  bestowers  of  wealth  on  tliy  worshipper;  why,  then,  dost 
thou  sit  still?  Why  dost  thou  not  gladden  us?  Why  dost  thou  not 
delight  in  giving?"  bhadru  te  fuitta  tukritota  pan}  prayantirS,  tturaU 
rudhah  Indra  \  ko  te  nithaltih  kirn  u  no  mamatti  ktm  na  ud  ud  u  harehau 
I  u).  Again  in  x.  42,  3,  he  is  asked  :  "  Why  do  they  call  ill.  i 
,us,  o  opulent  (^m]  »  Sharpen  me,  for  I  hear  thee  to  bo  a  sharpener; 
3  byinii  be  pro-duel ivr.  <i  mighty  god;  bring  to  us  good  fortune 
and  riches"  (/fcua  anga  ted  maghavan  bhojam  dhuh  iUihi  md  eiiayafi  led 
irinomi  \  apnaevatl  mama  dhtr  astu  iakra  vatucidam  bhagam  Indra 
AMflffl  nah).  Th u  god  is  even  told  that  the  poet,  if  in  his  place,  and 
possessed  of  the  ample  resources  which  ho  alone  commands,  would 
•hew  himself  more  bountiful,  and  would  not  abandon  bis  worshipper 
to  poverty,  but  would  daily  lavish  on  him  cows  and  other  properly 
(vii.  32,  18:  yad  Indra  yatata*  ham  ttAcad  aham  It'tya  \  ttoUram 
didhithtya  raddvano  na  pdpatrdya  rAriya  |  19.  S"iithtyam  in  tnahaya 
divr  dive  rdyak  d  kuhachidvide  {"*  viii.  14,  1.  Yad  Indra  aham  yalhJ 


>h  On  the  scum  aieijrned  by  th©  Indian  writers  to  iratra  tee  ray  art.  on  th*  iakr. 
prcUtioa  of  the  Veda,  m  Jouxn.  R.A.S.  for  1800,  p.  378. 

'*»  These  Twtes,  with  the  entire  hynin  in  which  they  occur,  are  tranalated  by 
Prof.  Max  Mullrr  in  hu  Am.  SanA.  Lit.  p.  U2  S.  Tho  word  kukatXidridt  ia  there 
tendered  "  to  whosoever  it  be,"  and  it  ii  there  mentioned  in  a  note  that  "  according 
tu  the  commentator  kuhaxkidrid  meant '  wherervr  hu  be.'"  Prof.  Mailer  adds:  it 
oisy  perhaps  mean  the  ignorant.  Prof.  Roth  follow*  Sijmja  in  hu  explaaatiaa.  A 
■imilar  appeal  i*  mudo  to  Agui  in  viiL  19,  lb :  yad  Agm  uurtyat  trait  lyim  aham 


ISDIU'S   RELATIONS   WITH    HIS   woKsntri'Kna 


109 


i&ym  etuva}  ehtk  it  |  ttota  me  gothoUti  tyiit  \  iiktheyam  aimai 
ditttyam  iathlpaU  maul  thine  \  yiid  ahum  gopatih  eyCm). 

India  supplies  the  plue*  of  armour,  and  is  a  champion  who  fights  ia 
the  Tan,  vii.  31,  6  (Uafk  tarma  tapralhah  puroyadhai  rha  rrtttrahan  | 
teayu  pratibruve  ynjA).  He  is  supplicated  for  all  sorts  of  temporal 
blessings,  as  wealth  in  cows,  horses,  chariot*,  health,  understanding, 
sweetness  of  voice  (ertidm&naih  t&thah),  prosperous  days,  long  life  ex- 
tending to  a  hundred  years  (ii.  21,  6;  iii.  86,  10;  vii.  27,  5;  x.  47, 
1  ff.).  In  ir.  32,  17  ff.  the  worshipper  states  his  wiohos  more  in  detail. 
asks  Iiidra  to  give  him  a  thousand  yoked  horses,  a  thousand  jars  of 
somn,  hundreds  of  thousands  of  cows  ;  acknowledges  that  he  bad 
received  t*n  golden  jars,  and  urges  tho  god  not  to  be  sparing,  but  to 
bestow  abundantly  in  conformity  with  his  character  for  liberality 
(aaAasmft  tyatlnum  yuktilnGm  Indram  \mnh*  \  iataih  eomiutya  khiryah  \ 
18.  Schturd  U  hid  mi/aili  gan'xm  <\  eky&XlyHman'  |  tumatrQ  rddhah  etu 
is  |  19.  Daia  U  kafoianftth  hiranyAnum  adfamahi  |  bharidafr  an  Frit- 
trahan  |  20.  Muriddh  bhilri  dthi  na  Ml  dMram  hhiiri  fl  Mutra 
gha  id  latlra  dittati  |  21,  HKiiridnh  hi  ati  irulah  pttrutra  itra  Yfittra- 
ka*  J  a  no  bhajatia  radfitui).  Among  other  boons,  Indra  is  asked  to 
bestow  victory  in  war,  which  depends  upon  his  will,  and  for  which 
he  is  invoked  by  both  the  hostile  armies  (ii.  12,  8 :  yaA  Inmd.ul 
saiftyrft  vihrayett  part  atare  vbhay&h  amttruh  |  9,  yaemdd  no  rite  vijti- 
yanlr  j*f~'fth  yam  yudhyamnnuh  avat*  havanU).  In  X.  103,  8  ff .  {  =» 
8.  V.  ii.  1206  ff.,  and  Vuj.  S.  xvii.  40  ff.)  he,  ia  company  with  other  god*, 


mitranmhe  amarty*  |  esAewA  ivm*  a  hula  |  na  fra  raiiya  aihi/tttayt  rcto  so  popul- 
•by*  tomty*  •  mm  mr  ttota  amaiifa  na  iurMtah  tyad  Af*t  na  papaya  \  '•  Wert  than, 
Agni.  s  aortal,  and  wore  I  an  immortal,  a  invoked  ton  of  might,  I  would  not  abandon 
thee  to  naWiction  ot  luutfry ; — my  worshipper  tbould  not  be  poor  nor  di»ttv«*cd  nor 
»rtfchcd."  And  again  is  riii.  44,  23,  tho  nunc  god  u  that  uddrteetd  :  Y*d  A$m 
aySm  eAam  Iran  (ran  r'i  aha  jyrlA  sham  |  #uwi  U  tatyiik  ikaiUKah  |  ■  Wrn:  I  thou, 
Agai,  and  ir.rt  thou  I.  thy  upbatiua  ihoidd  b«  fulfilled. "  (In  the  former  postage 
vtu  19.  23,  a  word,  milramaAat,  occur*  which  thews  tho  uncertainty  of  8«yij»'» 
»vrnr»tatione.  He  there  explain*  it  anukuU-alplimam,  "  hi  whose  light  U  tavotir- 
able"  In  i.  44,  12,  a«  reader*  it  mitramOm  aiyaka;  in  i.  68,  8,  anukVa-tFptimam 
ia  ii.  1,  6,  Mia  kari-tQah;  in  vi.  2,  U,  anukuU-tfpU  ;  in  ri.  5,  4,  anuXula-a'rt* 
■MrfRta  maaayitar  r.i ,  in  rii.  o,  0,  mtlrvnam  pujayit.ih .  In  Tiii.  44,  14,  Mi'rra> 
mam  pajamrya  ;  in  riii.  49.  7.  mitranim  atmiikam  pujaka  ttf*  tit.  Prof.  Roth 
i  ptrbapi  mesne  "riefa  in  frienili.")  Seeabo  i.  38.  4,  5,  ia  IVof.  Max 
Milller*  Ttsju.  of  the  R.V.  pp.  t;,r<  ond  70  f.,  end  m*  aft,  afl  Okl  latetprelationof  tba 
Vede,  Joura.  R.A.8.  for  1S66,  pp.  971,  ami  581  f.    Compvo  alio  x.  33,  8. 


no 


INDRA'S    RELATIONS   WITH    HIS    WORSHIPPERS. 


■who  seem  to  be  conceived  as  present  with  their  host*,  as  invisible  allies 
of  their  worshippers,  is  thus  addressed :  8.  Indrah  uirtm  %H&  Jir\kat- 
patir  DahhimX  Tajnah  purah  elu  Somah  |  d*v4$enun&ta  ahhibkanjat'inaiii 
faytintimim  Maruto  yontu  egram  |  9.  Indratya  rrithmo  Vanin/i*y* 
r&jnah  Adityam'un  marutam  iardliah  vgram  \  malnUnatina<lm  khutanact>ya~ 
fund  A  fhosho  devtlnrhh  jayatilm  vd  asthai  |  10.  Ui  dkarthaya  maghmMmm 
&yudkuni  ut  utvariCim  tndmakuHum  maniithti  \  ud  vrittraJuin  tajinum 
rtljinani  ud  rulhunam  jityatafn  yatdu  ghiuhnh  |  II.  AivtHkam  Indra 
tamritetku  i  '.am  yah  ithavat  t&h  jayanttt  |  atmiikam  tlrdk 

uttare  bharanlu  atmdn  u  dev&h  avata  kavahu  |  12.  (  —  Fir.  ix.  S3) 
AntitfiaiU  chittum  pratihlhayanfi.  grikana  angttni  Aptem  porthi  \  alhi 
preki  n\rd<iha  hrtttu  Sokair  atidhtttumitrdt  lama*u  ia<knn(um  |  8.  "  May 
Indra  be  the  leader  of  these  (oar  arnue»),  mar  Brihaspati,  Largess, 
Sacrifice,  and  Soma  march  in  front ;  may  tho  host  of  Marut*  precede  the 
crushing,  victorious  armies  of  the  gods.  9.  May  the  fierce  host  of  the 
rigorous  Indra,  of  king  Varunn,  of  the  Adityo*,  and  the  Mnruts  (go 
before  ub);  the  shout  of  the  great-souled,  conquering,  world-shaking 
god*  has  ascended.  10.  Rouse,  o  opulent  god,  tho  weapons,  rouse  the 
souls  of  our  warriors,  stimulate  the  power  of  the  mighty  men;  may 
shouts  arise  from  the  conquering  chariots.  11.  May  Indra  be  oun 
when  the  standards  clash ;  may  our  arrows  be  victorious ;  may  our 
strong  men  gain  tho  up]>crhand ;  preserve  us,  o  gods,  in  the  fray.  12. 
Bewildering  the  hearts  of  our  enemies,  o  Apvi,m  take  possession  of 
thur  huila  and  potts  onward  ;  come  near,  burn  them  with  fires  in  their 
hearts;  may  our  enemies  fall  into  blind  darkness."  m 

Indra  controls  the  destinies  of  men,  and  is  described  as  acting  in  an 
arbitrary  manner,  in  tL  47,  15,  where  it  is  said  of  him  :  p&dac  ita  pro- 
haraim  ,niyitm  anyam  krineti  piirvam  aparam  iatkllhih  |  16.  ifiuct  rtVai 
ugram  ugraih  damuyan  anyam  anyam  aii  twnlyamtinah  |  edkam&tuhdtil 
ubkayatya  raja  thoihkQyatc  ri&ah  lndro  manuthyiln  |  17.  Para pirvethAA 
iali/iyu  crinaUi  cirtarlurCno  apnrebkir  eli  |  "  Like  one  moving  (changing 

"•  The  8.V.  read*  Agkt. 

,M  Apvi  is  wid  in  the  Hinikt*  ri.  12,  to  mean  "disease  or  fear,"  lyudAir  tm 
Ukayam  to.  Roth,  n.  sari  the  word  racuns  a  dittaM.  In  the  impTuvniuent*  and 
add) lion  to  his  lexicon,  ml.  y„  ho  refers  to  the  word  as  denoting  a  goddess,  and 
quote*  Ind.  Studwn  iii.  203.  and  ix.  183. 

"•  Thi»  piiange  »  tT»n«lnU«l  by  Prof.  Bculvv  in  hi»  S&roa-voda.  Com  par*  A.V. 
iii.  10,  Off.  and  viii.  8  Iff. 


INDRA'S    RELATIONS    WITH    HIS   WORSHIPERS. 


Ill 


the  positions  of)  hit  feet  in  walking,  so  Indra  put*  one  and  now 
another  man  Erst  and  last  1 6.  This  hero  is  reao wned  as  subduing  every 
fioroe  man,  and  as  advancing  now  one  and  now  another.  The  enemy 
of  the  prosperous,1"  the  king  of  both  (worlds),  Indra  protect*  the  men 
who  are  subject  to  him.  17.  Ho  abandons  his  friendships  with  (his) 
former  (favourites),  and  consorts  with  others  in  turn." 

In  the  following  verses  JviiL  45,  32)  the  poet  teems  to  express  disap- 
pointment at  the  inadequate  manifestation  of  Indra' «  power,  while  be  at 
the  same  time  entreats  his  grace  and  forgiveness :  (Utbhraik  (hid  hi  ted- 
tatah  Lritam  irinre  adhi  kthami  |  jigutu  Indra  to  mamh  |  33.  Taxed  ■ 
tah  tuklrttaytih  tuann  ut/%  proituUyak  \  yad  Indra  mriloy&ti  nah  |  34. 
J/*d  nah  eiatminn  igati  ma  dcayor  ut-a  truhu.  |  r*dh\r  mil  inra  bharithu  I 
35.  Bibfmya  hi  ttAralah  ugrild  ahhiprabhanginah  \  dm  mud  ahum  rill- 
ikakah  |  32.  "Little  has  been  heard  of  us  done  upon  earth  by  one  such 
as  thou  art:  let  thy  soul  turn  (to  us),  o  Indra.  33.  Let  thoso  renowns 
and  those  praise*  of  thine  be  prored  true  by  thy  shewing  mercy  on  us, 

i-  ■  Who  do  net  offer  libotioai,"  say  Yutfcs  and  Saysoa  (««»»***«*).  Thin  line 
b  explainni  by  Prof.  Rath  in  hi<  IlluMrntion  of  tho  N'irukta,  p.  90.  Or  have  wo 
ti'ir  the  U«a  thai  the  god*  wore  jealous  of  hamiin  prosperity  ?  which,  »  ia  well 
known.  prevailed  among  the  Greeks,  and  is  expressed  in  the  message  of  Anxuis  to 
Polycratra,  n«  rnlntod  by  Hcrodntua,  iii.  40 :  W  ti  h  oxu  ^ejeUoi  tirrvxhu  06* 
kfin»*T<  ri  Stlor  twierofiiHf  tit  fori  <p6ovip/,v.  "  But  thy  great  pro*  peri  ty  dees 
not  plaaae  ea«,  a*  I  knew  that  the  Deity  u  enviou*"  See  Mr.  Blakeatey'e  Bate  ia 
leeo,  and  Herodotus,  i.  32,  and  ni.  40,  where  the  same  sentiment  recurs.  Prof. 
Wilson  in  the  Introduction  to  the  3rd  »oL  of  his  Trams,  of  the  B.V.  remarka  on  tlii* 
pasaaee :  "  He  ( Indra)  U  also  rsptastntod  in  the  same  hymn  as  of  a  oapricioui  tern- 
psrameai,  aegteeting  those  who  tens  him,  and  favouring  thoao  who  pay  him  no 
adoration  (p.  47  J,  ww  17) ;  a  notion  somewhat  at  varianos  with  a  doctrine  previously 
issmleated,  that  the  ceremonial  we-rvhip  uf  Indra  i»  able  to  atone  fur  the  moat  atroeiooa 
crime*  (p.  260.  note}."  Bee  the  note  Ual  referred  to,  which  relates  to  R.V.  v.  84,  4. 
Dot  is  thia  a  correct  deduction  from  the  passsgs  when  properly  interpreted  t 
The  verse  M  as  follows :  1'iMjru  aroJMt  pi  from  jrsay*  mitmrmm  (ways  iakro  thraU. 
nab  M)  ara/b  laiafr  |  rWi  id  u  a*ya  pra<f*ti\  yUanXarn  m  Hliuted  IthaU  raeaa* 
**»*>*.  |  "The  powerful  god  does  not  See  from  the  man  whose  father,  or  mother,  or 
brother  he  haa  tiain.  The  wMsnr  (or,  according  to  Roth,  *,*.  perhaps,  avenger) 
dceirea  euch  a  man'*  offered  (gift*} ;  thi>  god,  the  lourcc  of  ricbe*.  doe*  not  floe  from 
t»n."  Seyage  says  the  person,  whose  relstions  the  god  ilsys,  b  one  who  neglect*  his 
worship,  sad  whom  be  chaatiMa  and  then  reinstate*  in  hi*  favour  (iryNnai  iilnha. 
fit**  »f»)»ftUi).  If.  however,  Indra  is  merely  punishing  the  ungodly,  can  it  be 
iatsaded  ia  the  word  hliuJtat  in  th*  hurt  claw  of  th#  verse  to  impot*  to  him  say 
gailt }  It  nay  pevhepa  he  nrant  that  be  doe*  not  fear  to  poniab  the  offender  against 
him,  Ia  verve*  3, 6,  sad  o  of  the  hymn  th*  godly  man  a  bo  odors  libation*  is  said  to 
profprr,  while  the  irreligious  incur*  the  god's  displeasure. 


112 


INDBA'8    RELATIONS   WITH   HIS  WORSHIPPERS. 


o  Iudro.  34.  Sky  us  not  for  one  sin,  nor  for  two,  nor  for  three,  nor 
for  many,  o  hero.  3d.  I  am  afraid  of  one  ho  terrible,  bo  crushing,  no 
destroying,  such  a  queller  of  resistance  u  thou  art."  *•  Indrn  is  th» 
enemy  of  the  irreligious,  whom  he  punishes  and  destroys,  i.  131,  4: 
S'Hias  tarn  Indra  martyam  ayajyum  \  "  Thou,  Imlra,  hast  punished  him 
who  docs  not  worship  thee;  ii.  12,  10  :  yah  iakaio  mahi  mo  dadh/in&n 
amanyamutvin  iarcA  jaghina  |  "  who  slew  with  his  holt  those  who  ore 
great  sinners,  and  do  not  regard  him;  viii.  14,  15:  atuniSm  Indra 
tanaadam  ruhQchtft  ri  anaiayah  |  tomapuA  ultaro  bhacni*  |  "Then, 
Indra,  a  soma-drinker,  who  art  above  all,  hast  destroyed  and  scattered 
the  assembly  which  offers  no  libations."  (Compare  tbo  passages  quoted 
in  Vol.  i.  pp.  259  ft". ;  and  in  my  article  on  the  Indian  priests  in  the 
Vcdic  age,  Jour.  R.A.8.,  for  1866,  pp.  286  ff.)*"  He  hears  and  sees  all 
thiugs,  and  looks  upon  the  wrath  of  men,  himself  uncontrolled 
67,  5  :  viteafn  irinoti  paiynti  |  6.  Sa  manyum  martyHmim  adabdko 
iJiate).  lie  protects  his  faithful  servants  and  lends  them  into  an 
ample  space,  into  celestial  light  und  security  (ri.  47,  8:  nrn**0  no 
fchtun  MM  nttki  tidcun  noarvaj  Jyotir  abhayath  tvtuti) ;  and  in  ono 
place,  riii.  58,  7,  the  hope  is  held  that  they  shall  ascend  with  him  to 
a  home  in  the  solar  sphere,  and  there  drink  nectar  thrice  seven  times  in 
ili<  ulimli:  nf  tin  ir  frit-mi  [ml  i/ad  bradhmtyt  tithfopaM  fT&UM  faeVd 
rAu  gancohi  \  madkrak  plivd  tachevahi  Ink  tapia  mkhyuk  p*<U). 


»°°  Tin-  Mass  of  verse  134  f.  is  tbui  given  br  Prof.  Rota  in  his  Illustration*  sf  the 
NiniUa  (i».  'i)  p.  8S :  "  Tho  poet  pneys  lnJiu  Dot  to  destroy  him  fur  ono  or  sura 
tin*  (verse  31),  «oys  that  hs  is  afraid  of  ono  so  powerful  as  tbo  god  (vvrse  It),  and 
entreats  him  to  uurt  from  him  the  low  of  t  friend  or  a  ion  {rent  So),  lie  then 
make*  tho  god  nnnwer  in  the  reree  before  as  (37) :  '  Who,  o  mortals'  sum!  luiira, 
•  without  tiring  provoked  a*  a  friend,  ban  rvor  destroyed  hi*  friend  f  Who  mart  flee 
from  mef*" 

•M  Compare  R.V.  viii.  21,  14  (  =  S.V.  ii.  740) :  «•*•*  rmmUm  aaUy6»*  tuJ« 
prfftnti  (ru  $\>rvip*l  |  ysoU  kfinoiki  nadawm  sflasiAeji  ad  it  pit  tit  aiiyur),  which 
Is  thus  mndcrcd  hy  Prat  Mullet  (Anc.  Sanik.  Lit.,  p.  Mt.) :  "Thou  acvor  nodes* 
I  nrli  man  lo  be  thy  friend',  wino-»willers  dtspiMi  Ui«r.  Hut  when  thou  thundanst, 
when  thon  gaihercat  (the  cloud* ).  then  thou  art  called  like  a  father."  Henfcy  renders 
the  verse  somewhat  differently,  thus :  "Thou  never  tnkrat  for  a  friend  the  man  who 
is  merely  rich ;  ho  who  is  miluted  with  wine  is  a  burth«n  to  thee  :  with  a  mere  senstd 
thon  smitctt  them,  and  then  thou  art  supplicated  like  a  rather." 

**  Comparo  viii.  67,  13.  In  A.V.  vii.  St,  2,  Imlra  is  said  to  havo  repollod  the 
horfilr  man,  and  opened  an  ample  space  for  the  gods  {ipinutU  J*tum  a-asirra/swiasa 
urum  stn-fMyeA  tkp^vr  «  Mum). 


IXDRA'S    RELATIONS    WITH    HIS    WORSHIPPERS.  113 

moro  than  any  other  god,™  is  invokod  as  o  patron  of  tho 
Arya*,  and  M  their  protector  against  their  enemies  earthly,  or  annul  • 
i.  51,  8:  Vij&iflhi  uryun  y«  cto  dotyavo  barhukmaU  randhaya  t/i$ad 
e  era  tan  |  ialcl  bkara  yajamunanija  ehodita  died  it  t«  ladham/idaku 
tAuidHa  |  "  Distinguish  between  the  Aryan  and  those  who  are  Dasyns; 
subject  tho  lawless  to  the  man  who  offers  oblations ;  be  a  power  I'm  1 
helper  of  him  who  sacrifices  ;  all  these  things  I  desire  «t  thy 
festivals."*4    (See  also  the  following  verge.) 

i.  103,  3  :  in  jdtubharmA  **  iraddadMnah  ey'ah  piiro  vibhiwhnn 
atkarad  vi  dufih  |  vidcan  ca/'rin  Aatyave  hetim  atya  uryai'n  saho  cardftaya 
dyumnam  Indra  I  "  Wielding  tho  thunderbolt,  and  confident  in  his 
prowess,  ho  strode  onward,  shattering  the  cities  of  the  Dasyus. 
Thunderer,  knowing  (each),  hurl  thy  bolt  against  the  Dokvu,  arid 
augment  the  force  and  glory  of  tho  Arya."  i.  130,  8  :  Indraft  lamattu 
ygpmdruim  uryam  prutad  vOsttku  iidamiilir  ajii/ui  .  .  .  ,  |  tiutnat* 
iitmd  ttrtUun  Uachaih  krithnSm  arandhayat  |  "Indra,  commanding  a 
hundred  modes  of  succour,  protected  in  all  the  battles  tho  sacrificing 
Arya:  ohastiiing  the  lawless,  he  subjected  the  black  skin  to  Manu  (or 
tho  Aryan  man)."  ii.  11,  18:  oputrinor  jyotir  ary&ya  ni  wryatak 
laii  datyvr  Indra  |  "Thou  bust  disclosed  the  light  to  tho  Arya;  the 
Dasya  was  placed  on  the  left  side."  iii.  34,  9:  aatuma  atyQn  uU 
liryai'x  istina  taiuna  purulhojatam  yilm  \  hiranyayam  uta  bhoytto 
actdM  kattl  datyllnpra  Aryam  car  mm  azat  \  "  Indra  has  given  horses, 

"•  Other  gods,  bowewr,  are  aim  referred  to  u  protectors  of  the  Arya*.  Tn  i.  117, 
tt  (Ntr.  »i-  15)  it  is  said  Of  the  A* vint:  abii  daiyuih  bakurrna  a  dkayutrnta  wrtl 
jyttir  tkakrmtnr  aryaya  |  "  Sweeping  sivay  the  Dasyu  with  the  ihunderbold,  ye  have 
created  a  gnat  light  for  the  Arya."  Prof.  Roth  think*  bnkura  mean*  a  wind  irutrm- 
wst,  Illut  of  Kir.  p.  92,  and  Lexicon  «.r.  Prof.  Bsajhy  (•  >1Idw«  Siyurja  in  reodenag 
i  I  thwadcrbult.  In  ri.  21,  11,  it  u  said  of  all  thr  gods  :  y«  ayaijiktak  ritat'tptk 
Smr  fit  MMM  tAairur  u/mrmit  Audy*  |  "  Those  (gods)  who.  Ere-longued.  an.  I 
qi  mating  religions  rite*,  hive  nude  Manu's  mx  (or  the  Aryan  nun)  superior  to  the 
Dfao."    In  viL  1 00.  4,  it  it  raid  of  Vuhno  :  r«  tAnJbrtm*  prttHti*  t'ka  Mm  k,X*. 

trifM  t'itXnur  m*nmtkt  Jujityan  |  "  This  Vuhnu  strode  over  llii»  cirth,  bestowing 

it  m  a  domain  oa  Msnu'i  race."  And  ia  ffL  02,  I,  it  i»  Skid  of  A(rni .  up-  »A« 
/Slam  Sryttya  rtrdKanjm  ,1y„im  naitKantn  no  giralf  |  "Oar  hymns  have  reached 
Agni  who  was  horn  the  promoter  »(  i  Ik  .\     i ." 

a*  Bee  ProfcMor  Ilcn/ey'*  Triui»l«tion  iu  Oiimt  ajal  L  408. 

*»•  SaySKa  aaya  thit  means  ellicr  "  he  whose  weapon  in  the  thunderbolt."  or  "the 
nnrturw of  creatarot."  Btafrj,  Or.  und  Otc.  iii.  lit,  renders  the  compound  M born- 
win.. 

I 


in 


RELATION'S  WITH    HIS  WOR3U1  ITERS. 


hits  Riven  the  sun,  has  given  the  prolific  cow,  and  ho  has  given  golden 
weulth:  destroying  tho  Dasyus,  he  bu  protected  tho  Aryan  colour." 
iv.  26,  2 :    ajuim  bhumim  adod&a*  aryay  aham  frithfim  ddfuth*  w%ar- 
tyiya  |  "I  havo  giroa  the  enrth  to  the  Arya,  and  rain  to  the  wor- 
shipping mortal."     vi.  18,  3:  /mm  k&  nu  tyad  adamSya  datyvtt  tiah 
r  trt>«  n«r  arySya  |  "Thou  didst  then  subduo  tho  Dasyus,  and 
gnreat  the  people  to  the  Arya."     vi.  25,   3:    ubhir  viivoh  abhiyvjo 
rUhurfiir  6ry&ya  riiah  ttv/it'irir  dfttih  |  "  With  these  gnecoura  thou  bant 
I  injected  all  tho  distracted  hostile  Dasyu  people*  to  tho  Arya."     viii. 
24,  27 :    yah  fihhad  aihhato  muehad  yo  vu  Cry  St  upta  rindhuhm  | 
trndhar  dfaasya   luvinrimna  n\namah   |    "Who   delivered    from   great 
•traits;  who,  o  god  of  mighty  force,  didst  in  (tho  laud  of)  the  seven 
rivers  turn  away  from  the  Arya  the  weapon  of  the  Dasyu."  -riii.  87,  8 : 
team  hi  iamttiw'im  &fW  d/trtd  purum  ati  \  hanta  doayor  manor  vrtdkah 
puiir  divah  |  "Thou,  Iudra,  art  the  destroyer  of  unnumbered  cities;  tho 
slayer  of  tho  Dasyu;  tho  prospercr  of  the  (Aryan)  man;  tho  lord  of 
tho  sky."    z.  49,  2 :  aham  S'tuli/uuya  inathtiii  radhar  yarnam  na  yo 
ran  uryam  niima  datyav*  |  "  J,  tho  smiter,  havo  stayed  tho  weapon  of 
Buahnn;  I  do  not  abandon  the  Aryan  race  to  the  Ddsyu."     x.  86,  19 : 
ayam  emi  tiehakaiad  vichinran  4\i*am  uryam  \  "  I  come  beholding  and 
distinguishing  the  Dasa  and  tho  Aryo."     (I  am  unable,  however,  to 
any  who  is  tho  speaker  here.)*" 

**  Iadrs  with  Agni  i\  however,  besought  in  ri.  80  to  day  all  enemies,  Arya*  as 
well  as  Datyns ;  hnto  rri'.trani  arya  halo  damni  lalpati  |  hato  viicM  apt  drukak). 
In  x.  38,  3,  Indra  alone  is  similarly  addressed:    Yc  no  datah  Sryc  ta  punuktut* 

inkvah  liulra  ytulkayt  mmOktmH  \  atmabhir  U  Huhahak  tanlu  inlr.ru  Iroyi  myoi, 

tin  wamaflma  *>*gom«  |  ■  WhuUv«r  ngodly  man,  »  muck-lauded  ladra,  whether  a 
Ban  or  an  Arya,  design*  to  debt  with  in,— may  all  nieh  enemies  be  easy  to  orermnu ; 
may  wo  »lay  thorn  in  tin  StmfinV  And  In  x.  102,  3,  it  if  laid:  aalar  yatAka 
jighaSuata  tajrant  Jndra  nbkidmatiilt  |  d&wiya  tn  oiaghurrum  aryttya  ra  mmuUr 
y<nniyn  c\tilh*m  |  "  A treat,  o  liulra.  the  bull  or  tlm  ilmtrnynr  who  SOtkf  to  *lay  u»  ; 
ir  ir  mi  n-    i  "T  of  na«a  or  of  Arya."     Indra  and  Varuna  ut 

invoked  Ur  the  Mime  object  in  vii.  83,  1 :  JHita  eha  trittru  hatam  Sryani  tkm 


Iiutrn-rtruiyi  'two  'valam  |  "  Slay  both  DiiM  anil  Arya  cnemira  ;  protect  Sodis  with 
your  Micoonr,  o  Imlra  and  Varuna."  8o  too  in  x.  83,  1,  Manyu  (putionifitd  Wrath) 
is  prayed:  m/ipt'ima  datam  ary*m  tvoyt  yvju  takikriltna  tahan'i  taianati  |  "May 
•a,  with  tint  for  our  nlly,  evamsM  thp  Dttaa  and  the  Arya,  with  foKc-impelM, 
rifiorona,  energy."  I'erhnps  ii.  11,  10  {tanema  yt  U  uti&kii  /amnio  pu'ro*  ipfidkah 
irytna  lUiyim)  may  bare  tho  aamu  actwe.  la  x.  65,  II,  certain  bountiful  deitka  are 
spoken  of  as  pncraiin:  [irayn,  tho  cow,  the  boras,  plants,  trees,  Die  earth,  the 
mountains,  the  wut'is,  u  elevating  the  fun  in  I  lit  sly,  uuil  u  aprtading  Aryan  imti- 


ARE  THE  REPRESENTATIONS  OP  INDRA  INCONSISTENT.     H5 


(7)  ApptrnU  mutual  incongruity  of  wine  of  the  prtteding  rtprtum- 
tutimt  of  Indra. 

The  reader  who  i»  not  familiarly  acquainted  with  the  hymn*  of  tho 
Veda,  either  in  the  original  or  by  translations,  may  think  that  ho 
perceives  an  incompatibility  between  the  conceptions  of  the  god,  which 
no  will  find  in  the  different  parts  of  the  preceding  sketch.  And, 
according  to  onr  idea,  no  doubt,  there  is  an  incompatibility.  The  natf 
familiarity  with  which  Indra  is  treated  in  some  places  seems  irreconcil- 
able with  the  lofty  idem  of  his  greatness  which  other  portions  exprcn*. 
And  more  particularly  the  sensual  character,  which  is  generally  attributed 
to  the  god,  appears  to  be  in  opposition  to  the  moral  perfection  whiih  fa 
elsewhere  described  as  an  essential  feature  of  his  nature.  But  however 
incompatible,  according  to  cur  ideas,  thoy  may  seem  to  be,  both  of 
these  set*  of  representations  occur  sido  by  side,  in  the  snmo  hymns ; 
and  we  must  account  for  their  co-existence  and  juxtaposition  by  sup- 
posing that  the  ancient  Indian  poets  regarded  the  deity  who  was  the 
object  of  their  adoration  as  anthropopatfaically  partaking,  in  a  higher 
degree,  of  tho  elements,  sensuous  us  well  as  intellectual  and  moral, 
which,  on  the  evidence  of  their  own  consciousness,  they  know  to  bo 
equally  constituent  parts  of  their  own  nature.  It  must  be  furtln  r 
boruo  in  mind  that  theso  ancient  authors  did  not  connect  the  same 
low  associations  ns  wc  now  connect  with  the  sensuous,  or  even 
sensual,  principle  in  the  character  of  tho  god  which  is  exemplified  in 
hia  love  for  the  exhilarating  draughts  of  his  favourite  beverage.  This  fa 
clearly  shewn  by  tho  high  rank  which,  as  wo  shall  hereafter  see,  they 
assigned  to  Soma  himself,  as  tho  deity  in  whom  this  intoxicating  in- 
fluence was  personified,  and  by  tho  power  which  they  ascribed  to  him 
of  conferring  immortality  npon  his  votaries. 

And  that  these  apparently  incongruous  conceptions  are  not  the  product1; 
of  different  minds  in  various  stages  of  development,  but  of  tho  same 
poets,  may  be  seen  from  the  following  instances.  In  ii.  15,  2,  Indra  ia 
said  to  IrnTc  fulfilled  some  of  his  grandest  functions  under  the  influence 
at  the  soma-juico  :  mvuSti*  dyam  atUtihdyad  brihmUm  a  rodail  aprinai 

tatima  open  the  outk  (fawfau  yam  aitamjoMoynfh  «***«*  «ui)Mfli /riH^rm 
mntwlin  *p*$  \  tirytA  dim'  nJksytnttt)  mU.iimr*h  Srya  n+li  furymtU^  miXi 
ktKiimi). 


uc 


PROFESSOR  ROTHS  TnEORT  OP  THE 


antarihham  \  ta  dharayad  prithicim  paprathach  cha  totnatya  ta  maJt 
Indrai  ohak&ra  |  M  Ho  fixed  the  heaven  in  empty  space;  he  filled  tho 
two  worlds  and  the  air;  ho  supported  the  earth  and  spread  it  out; 
these  things  Indrn  did  in  the  exhilaration  of  tho  soma."  Similarly  in 
viii.  36,  4,  Janitii  divojanitu  ppithiryilh  piba  tomam  maddya  kmik  imta- 
krmto  |  "  Generator  of  Heaven,  generator  of  the  Karth,  drink  soma  to 
exhilarate  thee,  o  god  of  mighty  force."  In  viii.  07,  6,  as  ice  hare 
seen  aboTc,  p.  112,  Indra  is  said  to  hoar  and  see  CTcrything.  In 
tho  seventh  verse  of  the  same  hymn  wo  ore  told  that  tho  belly  of 
liim,  the  impetuous  actor,  tho  slayer  of  Vrittrn,  and  drinl; 
soma,  is  full  of  vigour  (Aro/raA  it  p&rnant  uiarmm  tunuya  atti 
tidhatak  |  vrtttroghmh  somapuvnah).  And  in  viii.  81,  6,  it  is  said  of 
him  :  aiya  plted  madandfn  devo  deuuya  ojatii  \  eifed  'Shi  bhurtind 
'hharat  |  "  Drinking,  a  god,  of  the  exhilarating  draughts  of  thia 
(Soma),  he,  by  his  energy,  overcame  all  being*  (or  worlds)." 

(8)  Professor  Roth's  tluory  of  the  suptrsmim  of  the  worship  of  i'aruna 
by  that  of  Imira. 

Professsor  Both  is  of  opinion  that  Varuna  belongs  to  an  older 
dynasty  of  gods  than  Indra,  and  that  during  tho  Vedio  ago  tin 
consideration  originally  attaching  to  the  former  was  in  course  of  being 
transferred  to  the  bitter.  In  support  of  his  position  that  Vuruno's 
worship  was  then  declining,  ho  urges  tbo  circumstance  that,  in  tho 
tenth  book  of  the  Kig-vcda,  which  contains  the  latest  productions  of 
that  period,  there  is  not  a  single  entire  hymn  addressed  to  this  deity.™ 

**  Sec  the  Journal  or  tho  German  Oriental  Society,  ri,  73 ;  and  lliatlingk  sad 
TLitir.i  Sanskrit  and  German  Lexicon,  ».r.  Indra.  Professor  Whitney  adopt:  tlie 
same  view  (Juuru.  Ainer.  Orient.  Society,  iii.  327).  Windiwhtninn,  in  hi*  ftfithra, 
p.  64,  extendi  the  lame  remark  to  that  gmd  aliio.  The  pemage  it  translated  in  the 
Slid  »ol.  of  this  work,  p.  2U5.  Although,  however,  thero  in  no  hymn  in  the  tenth 
Mandate  eddrc*xd  exclusively  to  Vara n a,  there  are  two,  th»  126th,  of  eight  rerse*, 
end  the  1 86th,  of  three  verse*,  in  which  he  i*  invoked  along  with  two  of  the  other 
Adityiu,  nfitr*  nnd  Aryaman.  In  only  two  vernc*  of  the  former  of  these  hymn*  is 
reference  made  to  any  other  god,  viz.,  to  Rudra,  the  Msrnts,  and  Agni  in  the  Terse  6, 
in  in  viiru  8.  Viininu  i*  idm  iJnnU.it.  or  referred  Ui,  along  with  uthtt  dcitir*, 
in  numeron*  (ingle  vorscs  of  the  10th  Mandala,  vis.,  in  8,  fi  :  IV.  6;  11,  1  ;  13,  8: 
H.7;  30,1;  31,0;  86,10;  Ufi,  I,  3,  12,  13,  37.  1  ;  ol,  2,  4  ;  CI,  17;  63,9) 
64.6,  12;  05,  1,6,8,  «  ;  60,2;  70,  11;  75,2;  83,2;  84,7;  86, 17,  24  ;  811,8, 
fi;  93,4;  97,  10;  98,  1 ;  TO.  10  ;  103,0;  IP9.2;  113.6;  123,6;  124.4.6,7; 
126.1;  130.6;  132.2:  147.6;  167,3;  173,6.  8oc  the  index  to  Langl. 
1'fcnch  trsatlation  of  the  li.V. 


BUPEESE8SI0X  OF  YARUJCA  BY  INDRA. 


II? 


I  give  the  substance  of  his  intonating  observations : — 
The  supersession  of  the  one  god  by  the  other  lloth  considers  to  bo  a 
mult,  or  feature,  of  tho  gradual  modification  which  the  old  Arinn 
religion  noon  began  to  undergo  after  it  had  been  transplanted  into 
India.     Tho  more  aupersensuous  or  spiritual  elements  of  this  religion 
ho  thinks  were  preserved,  though  in  a  peculiar  and  somewhat  ultorcd 
form,  in  tho  Persian  creed,  which,  at  tho  same  time,  rejected  almost 
entirely  the  gods  representing  the  powers  of  nature,  whom  it  bad  nlso 
inherited  from  an  earlier  age.     The  Indian  faith,  as  found  in  tho  Kig- 
Toda,  has,  on  tho  contrary,  according  to  Roth,  begun  already  to  give  tho 
i  to  these  latter  deities,  to  transfer  to  thorn  an  over-increasing 
dignity  and  honour,  to  draw  down  the  divine  life  into  nature,  and  to 
bring  it  ever  closer  to  man.     Proof  of  this  is  especially  to  be  found  in 
tho  development  of  the  myth  regarding  Indra,  a.  god  who,  in  the 
earlier  period  of  Arinn  religious  history,  either  hud  no  existence,  or 
was  confined  to  an  obscure  province.      The  Zend  legend  assigns  to 
another  god  the  function  which  forms  tho  essence  of  tho  later  myth 
concerning  Indra.     This  god  Trite,  however,  disappears  in  the  Indian 
mythology  of  tho  Vedio  age,  and  is  succeeded  by  Indra.     And  not 
only  to,  but  towards  tho  end  of  this  period  Indra  begins  to  dislodge 
Varuna  himself,  the  highest  god  of  tho  ancient  creed,  from  tho 
position  which  is  shewn,  partly  by  historical  testimonies,  nnd  partly 
the  very  conception  of  his  character,  to  belong  to  him,  and  becomes, 
if  not  the  supreme  god,  at  least  the  national  god,  whom  hiB  encomiasts 
strive  to  elevate  above  the  ancient  Vara  tin.     This  process  was  com- 
pleted in  the  post-vedic  period,  as  is  shewn  already  in  the  Brahniunos 
nnd  other  works  of  the  same  era.     Indra  becomes  the  chief  of  the 
Indian  heaven,  and  maintains  this  place  even  in  the  composite  system 
which  adopted  into  itself  tho  three  great  gods.    The  course  of  the 
movement  was  therefore  this,  that  an  old  god,  common  to  the  Arians 
(i.s.  the  Persians  and  Indians),  and  perhaps  also  to  the  entire  Indo- 
Oetmanio  race,  Vaniga-Ormuzd-TJmnos,  is  thrown  back  into  the  dark- 
ness, and  in  his  room  Indra,  a  peculiarly  Indian,  and  a  national  god, 
is  intruded.     With  Varuya  disappears  at  the  samo  time  tho   ancient 
character  of  the  people,  while  with  Indra  there  was  introduced  in  the 
samo  degree  a  new  character,  foreign  to  the  primitive  Indo-Germanie 
nature.  Viewed  in  its  internal  aspect,  this  modification  of  the  religious 


IIH 


8UPEBSESSION  OF  HYAtTS  BT  IXDIU, 


conceptions  of  the  Aryas  consists  in  an  ever-increasing  tendency  to 
attenuate  the  supersonsuous,  mysterious  side  of  tho  creed,  until  the 
gods,  who  wore  originally  the  highest  and  moit  spiritual,  hare  become 
unmeaning  representative*  of  nature,  Varuna  being  nothing  more  than 
the  ruler  of  the  sea,  and  the  Adityas  merely  regents  of  the  sun's  course. 
This  process  of  degradation  naturally  led  to  a  reaction.  (See  tho 
Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  vi.  76  f.) 

Tho  superior  antiquity  of  Varuna  to  Indra  may  no  doubt  {as  inti- 
mated in  tho  passage  just  quoted),  be  argued  from  the  foci  already 
noticed  of  the  coincidence  of  tho  namo  of  tho  former  with  that  of  the 
Greek  Ovpavov,  which  goes  seme  way  to  prove  that  a  deity  of  this 
name  was  worshipped  by  the  entire  Indo-Ocrmanic  race  before  its 
western  branches  were  separated  from  the  eastern,  whilst  wo  shall 
look  in  vain  for  any  traces  of  the  name  lndra  in  the  Greek  mythology. 


(9)  Bnptrtmimt  of  Dyam  by  Indra,  actording  to  Pnfeuon 
Bmfcy  and  Brial. 

It  is,  however,  as  I  have  already  intimated,  p.  34,  the  opinion  of 
other  writers  that  lndra  was  rather  the  successor  of  Dyaus  than  of 
Varuyo.  Thus  in  a  note  (occasioned  by  tho  word  ttkatar)  to  his  trans- 
lation of  R.V.  L  33,  5  (Oriont  und  Occident,  i.  48,  1862),  Professor 
Bcnfey  writes  :  "  It  may  be  distinctly  shewn  that  lndra  took  the  place 
of  tho  god  of  the  heaven,  who  in  tho  Vodas  i*  invoked  in  tho  vocative 
an  Dyaush  pitar  (R.V.  vi.  51,  &).  This  ii  proved  by  the  Out  that  this 
phruso  is  exactly  reflected  in  the  Latin  (Diespitcr  t  and  Jupiter  (for 
Dyonspitcr)  and  in  tho  Greek  Zev  irarep  (which  is  consequently  to  be 
taken  for  Ztv$  trarip),  as  a  religious  formula  fixed,  like  many  others, 
before  tho  separation  of  tho  languages.  When  the  Sanskrit  people  left 
the  common  country  where  for  thorn,  as  well  as  for  the  other  kindred 
tribes,  tho  brilliant  radiance  of  heaven  [dhanl,  part,  from  rfi'r,  to 
shine  .  .  .  )  appeared  to  them,  in  consequence  of  the  climate  there 
prevailing,  as  the  holiest  thing,  and  settled  in  the  sultry  India,  where 
the  glow  of  the  heaven  is  destructive,  and  only  its  rain  operates  bene- 
ficently, this  aspect  of  the  celestial  deity  must  have  appeared  the  moat 
adorable,  so  that  the  epithet  1'luvius  in  a  certain  measure  absorbed  all 
the  other  characteristics  of  Dyaush  pitar.     This  found  its  expression  in 


ACCORDING  TO  I'HOFBSSORS  BENFBT  AND  UREAL,         no 

the  namo  Ind-ra,  in  which  wo  unhesitatingly  rocognijjo  a  word  (which 
arose  in  tome  local  dialect,  and  was  then  diffused  with  the  spread  of 
the  worship)  standing  for  siud-ra,  which  again  was  derived  from  syund, 
*  to  drop.'  .  .  .*•  The  conceptions  which  had  been  attached  to  Dyaus. 
Joub,  Z(\n,  were  then  transferred  to  Iudra,  und  uccordingly  wo  find 
the  epithet  atator,  which  in  Latin  is  attached  to  Juppiter,  applied  to 
him."  In  this  view  Professor  Bonfey  is  followed  by  M.  Michel  Breol, 
in  his  "  Hercule  ct  Caous,"  p.  101.  After  giving  in  Section  V.  an 
account  of  the  myth  of  Indrn  and  Vrittru,  this  able  writer  proceed*  in 
the  following  section  to  explain  it*  formation.  I  tr  instate  a  few 
sentences  from  p.  101  :  "The  first  thing  which  ought  to  strike  us  is 
that  the  hero  of  the  myth  is  not  the  sumo  in  the  Indian,  as  in  the 
classical  mythology.  The  name  Indra  has  notluug  in  common  with 
Zco* ;  further  Iadra  is  an  exclusively  Indiau  god,  created  at  an  epoch 
when  the  ancestors  of  tho  Kurepeon  race*  had  been  already  separated 
from  their  brothers  in  Asia ;  in  reading  tho  Vedas  we  are  in  some  sort 
spectators  of  hia  first  appearance,  which  nearly  coincides  with  tho 
composition  of  the  earliest  hymns.  But  we  have  already  said  that  tho 
Vedic  mythology  is  extremely  Hunting,  that  tho  attribute;  of  one  god 
are  easily  transferred  to  another,  and  that  in  place  of  Indra,  other  gods 
are  often  invoked  as  the  conquerors  of  Vrittra.  We  are  authorized 
then  to  think  that  in  this  myth  Indra  occupies  tho  place  of  some  more 
ancient  divinity.  The  name  of  this  god,  which  we  may  give  uit'n 
perfect  certainty,  is  Dyaus,  or  Dyaushpitar,  tho  Heaven,  father  of 
bangs.  Dyaus  is  the  first  god  of  tho  Indo-European  nations :  main- 
tained in  his  supreme  rank  by  tho  Greeks  uu  1  L  ttiu>,  he  has  fallen 
from  it  in  tho  Vcdue,  although  bo  is  there  sometime*  invoked,  chiefly 
in  company  with  the  goddess  rrithivi  (tho  Earth).'' 


•■  Profit***  M.dWv  smtgtu  tho  aaue  «n»«  to  India,  in  lii»  Lrrtuwi  en  Lang 

.  tote,  wbere  he  unit*  ;  Indrm,  a  name  peculiar  b>  Ir.tlii,  admits  but  of  one 
•fvsoalofj,  «'.«.  it  unit  be  derived  from  tho  tatno  root,  whatever  that  mar  Ik. 
in  8ao*kril  yii'Mtd  imim,  drop,  up.  It  meant  originally  the  jrivmr  of  rain,  ilia 
Jupiuw  plu«nn,  a  daily  in  India  mure  often  present  to  the  nund  of  tho  wonziippec 
than  ssy  o*a*r.  Cf.  Bcnf.j,  Orii-nt  und  Ocekbnt,  vol.  i.  p.  4'.i."  rVoftsaw  8 
kit  Laxkoa,  ».r.  think*  tbt  word  cornea  from  the-  root  in  or  Mr,  with  the  «nra*  r, 
pnacdad  by  cpeatbttk  d,  and  Straus  "the  overccmer."  "tbe  powtrfal."  The  *M 
Indian  ilrrivatkins  may  In  f-mnil,  ua  he  remarks,  in  Nir  i.  S.  See  also  &iy»it»  oa 
I  i  if). 


120 


WHETHER  VARUNA  AND  AlIURA  VAZDA 


But  whatever  may  bo  tho  case  as  regard*  Dyaus,  tho  increasing 
popularity  of  Indra  may,  no  doubt,  an  Professor  Roth  supposes,  have 
tended  ulso  to  eclipse  the  lustre  of  Yaruou. 


(10)  Opiniauaf  Pnftwort  licth,  Whitney,  Spiqel,  and  Dr.  F.  Windittk- 

mann,  on  ffo  question  whether  Varuna  and  Ahura  .Vaida  are  htttt- 
riealiy  cenncdat. 


If  Professor  Roth's  opinion,*"  that  there  is  not  merely  an  analogy,  but 
on  actual  historical  connection  between  tho  Adityas  uoJ  the  Auishospands 
of  tho  Zend  A  vesta,  be  well  founded,  it  will  be  made  out  that  Yoruga, 
who  is  ono  of  the  Adityas,  must  have  been  worshipped  by  tho  Aryans 
hftn  tiU  -'I>.jr:.f i.,ti  ...  tin:  lVr.,iiti  tr..:n  tin:  1 1 j! i.-»Ti  Vineli  <>t  tint 
family.  And  this  conclusion  will  be  confirmed  if  we  adopt  the  sug- 
gestion of  Professor  Whitney,1"*  that  Ahura- Mazda  is  a  development 
of  Yaxuna. 

I  learn,  however,  from  a  communication  with  which  I  have  lately 
been  favoured  by  Professor  Spiegel,  of  Erlanflen,  that  that  eminent 
Zend  scholar  is  unable  to  recognize  any  similarity  between  Ahura- 
Mazda  and  Yarn  q  a,  and  considers  the  connection  of  the  Amshaspanda 
with  the  Adityas  to  be  very  doubtful.911     The  Into  Dr.  Windiac-hmann 


m«d, 
a,  tho 


*»  Joum.  Germ.  Orient  Sccietr,  ri.  60,  70. 

•id  Juurnol  of  tin-  Araerienn  Oriental  Society,  iii.  327.  "  Ahum  Mania,  Ormud, 
':'  in,"  hi!  writes,  "rui  in  hardly  to  be  doubted,  a  dtTidupuicni  of  Varuna, 
Ailityus  are  corrolotiTta  of  the  Aiiisliiwpnnds,  there  even  esistt  in  the  Persian  religion 
the  same  clone  connnction  between  Ahum  lltsrifl  and  Miihra  ru  in  the  Indian  bttwaen 
Mitra  anil  Vururja."  There  is  no  doubt  (bat  the  term  Antra,  "spirit,"  which  u 
frequently  applied  t<>  Vanin:i  tad  (0  Mitra.  and  alio  to  Indra  and  others  of  tho  Vadic 
gods,  is  the  tamo  word  which,  in  it*  Zend  form.  Ahura,  mntw  up,  with  Ibe  addition, 
of  MuxiLi,  thr  appellation  ut  the  supreme  and  bflMVelgnl  deity  of  the  Iranian  my 
tholcfry.  I'rolwsor  Muller  regards  tho  namea  Ahuro  sludau  as  corresponding  to 
the  Sanskrit  Amra-mtdhat,  the  "wisu  spirit"  (Lecture*  na  the  Science  of  Langmag*. 
lint  aerie*,  let  edition,  p.  1!J»).  See  also  Professor  Iknfey"s  Glossary  to  the  84»»- 
vwU  (1848)  i.t.  ,»»■/*.!«.  from  which  it  appears  that  that  scholar  had  adapted  the 
MM)U  m.1  considers  tli.  •  jdiug  of  U.S.  riii.  20,  17,  trmrurym 

udhatali,  to  bo  a  corruption  of  amrttty*  hmMumA.  I!ut.  ttdhtt  occurs  cbewkcre  aa 
an  i  piihit  of  the  god*,  tg.  of  Vi*hnu  in  i.  luG.  2. 4.  In  the  hut  of  these  verse*  be  ss 
styled  miirytarya  rulkamh. 

311  In  regard  tn    Mi  id  the  Armhospandi,  Professor  Spiegel  has,  as  ha 

me.  collected  all  the  pa*itiY  ios  a*  C6QM  sbtsiB  >"  tin-  Areata, ia 

Iho  I:  i  KM    al  In    unnelation,  pp.  iii.  If. 


ARE  HISTORICALLY  COXXF.CTED. 


121 


also,  m  Professor  Spiegel  informs  me,  held  Ahum  Ma*«la  to  bo  n  purely 
Iranian  god  (Zoroastriacbe  fitudien,  p.  122).  And  such  of  the  ground? 
for  regarding  Varuna  as  an  older  deity  than  ^udra  as  might  othorwise 
have  been  derived  from,  the  Zend  A  vesta,  would  be  a  good  deal 
weakened  if  wo  could  look  upon  the  Indra  or  Andrn  of  the-  Zend 
books  aa  standing  for  the  same  god  who  was  known  in  India  under 
the  former  name  (aee  Spiegel's  Areata,  ri.  10),  and  aa  represent- 
ing a  deity  who  had  at  one  time  been  an  object  of  worship  common 
both  to  the  Indian  and  Persian  Aryans,  but  who  after  the  separa- 
tion of  the  two  tribce  was  degraded  by  tho  luttcr  iato  an  eril 
spirit  For  whilo  Indra  would  thus  bo  proved  to  have  been  ku  >wn 
before  tho  period  of  that  separation,  he  might  also  have  been  at  on© 
time  a  god  hold  by  both  divisions  of  the  Arras  in  high  consideration  as 
well  as  Varuna.  I  learn,  however,  from  Professor  Spiegel,  that  the 
materials  afforded  by  the  Zend  books  in  reference  to  this  name  arc  not 
sufficient  to  afford  a  basis  for  any  positive  conclusions.*19 

(11)  ITUthtr  there  are  any  patwget  in  the  hymns  uto'ek  fceuiwty  theya 
that  Indra  wai  superseding  Varuna. 

Beyond  the  fact  noticed  by  Roth,  that  Ynmnn  is  much  less  fre- 
quently mentioned  lo   the  last  than  in  tho  curlier  books  of  thi 
vtda,  I  have  not  observed  in  tho  hymns  themselves  anything  that  can 


>'•>  The  identification  of  Andrn  with  Indra  was,  a*  Professor  Spiegel  tells  mo,  flnt 
^iroprwed  by  Hurnuuf  {Yas'na  £26  IL),  where  ■  translation  is  pi  en  of  the  passage  ia 
whsnb  Andxa  it  mcntiinn  i  I  li  red  lb«  '•>•  Sjiirycl  binuclf.  in  bUAvi   I  >,i   170: 

••  I  fight  with  Indra,  I  fight  with  S'uuru,  I  tight  wiltt  US  Dtsfl  RaoghsluJ,  to  drive 
them  sway  from  th*  derailing-,  the  village,  Uic  castle,  tho  country."  Ihn  nnmo  Indra 
«ir  Aadn,  u  Prof.  Spiegel  further  informs  me,  owurs  only  in  ono  other  passage  (YYctrter- 
gasurj,  Zonoarcsla,  p.  476),  wtiib  lie  (IVof.  S.|  believe*  to  be  interpolated.  It  con- 
tains mettly  tho  name,  and  consequently  throw*  no  further  lifit  on  the  portion  of 
the  god  ia  th«  Areata.  The  information  found  in  the  liter  Parses  books  rruardiiijr 
Indri  or  Aadra  it  alto  meagre  (rumpiro  Spiegel's  Areata,  ii.  3ft).  On  (hit 
Professor  Spiegel  makes  the  following  remark*.  In  tho  Introduction  to  the  M  vol.  el 
his  A  vests,  p.  tend. :  "It  is  said  by  some  that  the  Andra  of  the  Areata  is  the  Indra 
of  the  Vodka,  thai  Nuoghnitbyo  answers  to  iVfisatyas,  and  SasxTs  to  Sarra.  Hero 
from  a  real  tact  a  quite  incorrect  conclusion  is  drawn.  The  names  arc  the  sama  ia 
both  religion*  system*;  hut  bow  far  the  things  racaibls  each  other  can  now  be 
shown  in  the  tame  manner  as  the  similarity  of  Soma  and  Jlaomit,  etc  ;  foe  the  Areata 
tells  im  nothing  more  than  the  name  of  any  of  (be  beings  in  qnestiin." 


122 


WHETHER  THE  HYMNS  POLVT  TO  ANY 


bo  construed  as  a  decisive  proof  that  the  worship  of  Indra  was  super- 
acding  that  of  Varuyu  during  the  period  of  their  composition.  It  is 
true  that  oven  in  the  earlier  parte  of  the  Veda  the  number  of  hymns 
addressed  to  the  former  god  ia  much  greater  than  that  in  which  the 
latt«r  is  celebrated.  But  I  have  not  discovered  any  expreasionj  which 
would  distinctly  indicate  that  the  popularity  of  the  one  was  waning 
and  that  of  the  other  increasing.  Thar*  are,  however,  some  passages 
which,  though  tliey  do  not  afford  any  clear  indications  in  support  of 
ouch  a  supposition,  arc,  at  all  events,  not  inconsistent  with  ita  correct- 
new.  Thup  then  are  several  hymns  in  which  Indra  is  associated  with 
Varuija111  us  an  object  of  celebration,  and  where  the  two  are  described  as 
acting  in  concert,  viz.,  i.  17  ;  ir.  -11  ;  iv.  42 ;  vi.  68 ;  rii.  62;  vii.  83; 
viL  Ml ;  vii.  Bo ;  etc. ;  and  this  association  of  the  two  might  have 
arwn  from  the  worshippers  of  Indra  desiring  to  enhance  the  di 
of  that  god  by  attaching  him  to  the  older  and  more  venerable  deity. 
In  vii.  M,  24,  Varuna  is  said  to  have  Indra  for  his  friend  {Ferunak 
Jndraialhil),  hut  thin  cannot  well  bear  the  interpretation  that  soma  of 
their  worshippers  bat]  I  the  habit  of  regarding  them  as  rivals 

and  enemies,  as  in  i.  22,  19,  Yishnn  is  called  the  intimate  friend  of 
Indra  (Indraaya  yttjyah  taktui).  Indra  and  Vuruya  are  called  the  two 
monarebs,  »amrt\jYi,  and  the  supporters  of  all  creatures1"  (i.  17,  1,  2); 
Cud  in  their  dafligaaj  dhrita-vratH  (vi.  G8,  10).  Vnrurja  is  supplicated 
along  with  Iudru  to  discharge  a  gleaming  and  violent  thunderbolt 
against  tho  worshippers'  enemy  {didyvm  asmitm  ejiihfhatn  vgrd  ni 
rndhthfsth  '■■■■  -11,  4),  though  in  most  other  places  (see  above) 

Indra  alone  is  regarded  as  the  thundcror.  In  rii.  go_  2,  it  is  said  that 
one  of  the  two,  Varuna,  is  culled  samruf,  monarch  (as  ho  is  in  various 
places,  seu  above,  p.  60),  and  the  other,  Indra,  is  colled  nwrdf,  inde- 
pendent ruler  (iii.  46,  I,  and  elsewhere;  see  i.  61,  9,  above);  and 
their  separate  relations  and  functions  are  described  in  other  parts  of 
this  and  the  following  hymns,  vii.  82,  5:  lndrfi-carw\<l  yad  imdmt 
<kakraihm  ■■■in  ui.i, 'maaa  \  Ishnnena  Mitro  VaruwtA 

ihuasyati  MaruMhir  ugrafy  iiMam  anyub  \yate  |  6  Ajiimim  aryah 
iuatlmyaiUam  ulirad  dabhrebhir  amjah  pro  vrs'fofl  Ihtyswh  I  "  Indro 

•I  In  A.V.  iv.  L'.j.  1.  '2,  V  inma  and  VUIinu  »re  wnnliippcd  together. 
*"  Dhartliir*  tS.ir*haniiwm.  Tho  «atao  epithet  is  applied  to  Mitrs  and  Yarug*  in  », 
,  and  Y«roMtt  it  eaBsd  tkn,,html«Ihri:,  "mpporta  of  cro»lurw,M  in  it.  I,  J. 


STTBESESSIOX  OP  VARUS A  BY  INDRA. 


123 


and  Yaruna,  when  ye  formed  all  these  creature*  of  the  world  by  your 
power,  Mitra  waits  upon  Varurja  with  tranquility,  whilst  the  other 
fierce  (god  i.e.  Indra)  is  resplendent  along  with  tho'  Xf  acute.  6.  The 
one  ovcrcomca  the  destructive  enemy ;  the  other  with  few  repels  many." 
rii.  83,  9 ;  I'ritlniAi  ant/ah  tamitlwku  jiyfamU  tratuni  anyah  ahhi 
rtk*h*U  Huld  |  "  The  one  {Indra)  Loves  to  slay  enemies  in  battle ;  tho 
other  (Varuna)  always  maintains  his  ordinance*."  vii.  84,  2 :  Pari  no 
Kelo  Flarwpuya  vrijyah  uruti  nah  Indrah  ijiaaiad  h  hkam  |  "Do  thou 
remove  from  us  the  wrath  of  Yaruna ;  may  Indra  open  to  us  on  ample 
space."  vii.  83,  3 :  Kriih\\r  anyo  dhurayati  pratiktAh  rfiUrlini  any*$ 
apratini  hanti  \  "  Tho  ono  sustains  tho  separate  creatures ;  the  other 
slays  unequalled  onomies."  So,  too,  their  joint  action  is  described  in 
other  verses.  Thus  they  are  said  to  have  dug  the  channels  of  the 
rivers,  to  have  impelled  the  sun  in  tho  slty  (vii.  82,  3:  anu  *pd& 
lki*i  airinlam  tjai&  0  tHryam  airayatam  diii  pmbhttm),  nnd  to  have 
Bade  all  creatures  (ibid.  5).  All  the  other  gods  are  said  to  havo 
Hrfawd  strength  and  vigour  into  these  two  in  the  highest  heaven 
(ibid.  2 :  rises  dec&nah  paramc  vyomani  •«&  tarn  ojo  rritkand  tarn  bul<tik 
imikmk).  Tbcee  passages  nro  consistent  with  tho  supposition  that  tho 
two  gods  were  felt  to  havo  been  rivals,  and  that  the  author  of  the  hymn 
sought  to  reconcile  their  conflicting  claims,  but  they  arc  not  conclusive, 
for  Vishnu  and  Indra  are  aluo  joined  together  in  tho  samo  way  in  some 
hymns,  i.  155 ;  ft  69 ;  vii.  99,  4  ff.  (toe  tho  4th  VoL  of  this  work,  pp. 
64,  71,  74  ff.) ;  as  are  also  Agni  and  Indra  in  others,  L  21 ;  i.  108;  j. 
109;  iii.  12;  v.  86;  vi.  59  ;  Indra  and  Yayu  in  i v.  46-48;  Indru  and 
l'ushnn  in  vi.  57  ;   Indra  and  Soma  in  vi.  72 ;  vii.  104. 

A  number  of  verses  occur  in  different  parts  of  tho  P.ig-veda  (r«.  i. 
I  |  iv.  23,  7;  v.  2,  3,  vii.  18,  16;  x.  27,  6;  x.  48,  7)  in  which 
tho  epithet  anindra,  "ono  who  is  no  worshipper  of  Indra,"  is  em- 
ployed; hut  it  docs  not  appear  Unit  it  ia  applied  to  persons  who  wero 
not  worshippers  of  Indra  in  particular,  as  distinguished  from  other 
Aryan  gods,  but  either  to  tho  aboriginal  tribes,  who  did  not  worship 
either  him  or  any  other  Aryan  god,  or  to  irreligious  Anas,  or  rather, 
|.»  generally,  to  evil  spirits  as  the  enemies  of  Indra.  In  other 
places  (as  I  havo  ubovc  noticed,  p.  104,)  wo  find  sceptical  doubts  ex- 
pressed regarding  Indra. 

The  twelfth  hymn  of  the  second  book  is  devoted  to  the  glorification 


124 


■WHETHER  THE  HYMNS  POINT  TO  AS'Y 


of  lndra.  The  first  and  second  verses  are  as  follow* :  1 .  To  j<Uak 
mi  prathamo  maruuvun  deto  devun  kratunil  paryabhuthal  |  yatya  huh- 
mid  rodtui  abhyauUlm  nrimnatya  mithnd  m  jamUah  hvdrah  |  2.  Yah 
j>jith\t\Si  ryatham&ndm  edrimhad  yah  perratdn  prakupitun  aramn&t  | 
yo  attar iktkam  vimame  tar\ya  yo  dyum  aitobknat  *o  jan*\wh  Indrth  | 
"  1.  lit;  vt  ho,  as  soon  as  born,  the  first,  the  wist-,  surpassed  tbo  gods  in 
force :  at  whose  might  the  two  worlds  trembled,  through  the  greatness 
of  his  strength,  ho,  o  men,  is  lndra.  2.  Ho  who  fixed  the  quivering 
earth,  who  settled  the  agitated  mountains,  who  meted  out  the  vast 
atmosphere,  who  established  the  sky, — he,  o  men,  is  lndra."  The 
following  versos  all  end  in  the  same  way,  by  declaring  that  lndra  is  he 
who  hail  performed  the  several  nets,  or  possessed  the  various  powers, 
which  they  specify.  This  might  appear  as  a  polemical  assertion, 
against  gainsaycrs,  of  Indra's  claims  to  recognition  as  a  fit  object  of 
worship."* 

In  z.  48,  11,  lndra  is  introduced  as  saying:  AdilydnUSi  r«*6*6A 
rudriyanftm  dtrv  devanaff,  na  miiwmi  dhilma  |  le  mil  bhmdrCtya  iarmm 
tutakthar  aparujitam  at/p'tam  a*h&lham  |  "I,  a  god,  do  not  assail  the 
rank  (or  glory)  of  the  Adityas,  the  Vagus,  or  the  son*  of  Rudru.  who 
have  fashioned  me  for  glorious  power,  and  mado  mo  unconquerable, 
irreversible,  and  unassailable." 

In  viii.  61,  2,  it  is  said :  Ayujo  atamo  nribhir  ekah  kriJtfir  ayH$yak  \ 
purclr  «li  pra  varridh*  ziiv&  J&luni  ojasii  itytidi  |  7.  PtsVfl  ft  lndra 
tlryaM  dctiih  auu  kratufn  dadiih  |  12.  St t yam  id  rai  u  tarn  rayon* 
Jndraik  tturdmti  ne'inritam  |  mahiin  OtWtwU  radho  iJniri  fyttlMlki  *»*- 
catth  |  "2.  Without  n  follow,  urn  quulk-d  by  men,  lndra,  alono,  un- 
conquered,  has  surpassed  in  power  many  tribes  and  all  creature*.  7. 
All  tin-  gods  yield  to  the  lndra  in  valour  and  strength.  12.  May  wc 
praise  ludru  truly  and  not  fuUely :  great  destruction  falls  upon  him 
who  pours  out  no  libutions  to  ludru, JU  while  he  who  does  offer  them  is 
blessed  with  abundant  light." 

In  iv.  30,  1  ff.  lndra  is  described  as  having  no  superior  or  equal 
(.Y//.v/r  Imlra  had  ultaro  na  jyaydn  atti  Vriltrahan  \  nakir  era  ynthu 


•"  There  b  another  hymn  (x.  SO), each  Ter»c  of  which  ends  with  the  words  "lndra 
ia  tnponor  t>  uli ; "  bul  the  drift  of  the  liynill  in  too  ulxciiru  lo  admit  of  tnjr  deter* 
.-  whether  it  hai  any  polemical  tendency  or  not. 
'"  ThuMntnuent  sppcin  to  be  repeated  firoin  i.  101,  I. 


SUrERSESSION  OF  VARUJlA  BY  DfDRA. 


125 


tram),  and  u  having  alone  conquered  nil  tho  goda  in  battle.  Anil  in 
vii.  21,  7,  it  is  said  that  even  the  former  gods  subordinated  their  powers 
to  hi*  divine  glory  and  kingly  dignity  (aVruf  e&it  te  aturyyiiya  pvrve 
ana  hhattrftya  mamirt  tahilmit).  In  the  following  passages  (formerly 
quoted  in  the  4th  toI.  of  this  work,  pp.  85  IT.),  it  is  said  that  all 
of  the  gods  are  unablo  to  frustrate  the  mighty  ducda  and  000 
of  liidra  (ii.  32,  4);  tliat  no  one,  whether  god  or  man,  either  sur- 
passes or  equals  him  (vi.  30,  4);  that  no  one,  celestial  or  terrestrial, 
has  been  born,  or  shall  be  born,  like  to  him  (vii.  32,  23);  and  that  by 
battle  ho  has  acqnired  ample  space  (or  wealth)  for  the  god*  (vii.  98, 8), 
It  is  oven  eaid  (i.  101,  3)  that  Vamna  and  Siirya  nro  subject  to  tho 
command  of  Indra  (yatya  rrat«  Faruno  ynnyn  SaryaA) ;  and  in  x.  89, 
X,  '..',  the  latter  is  besought  to  destroy  the  enemies  of  Mitra,  Aryaman, 
and  Varuya  (thereby  evincing,  of  course,  his  superiority  to  those  throe 
gods)  (pra  yt  Jfitratya  Farunanya  dhilma  ynjam  na  janAh  minanti 
Uitram  |  9.  Pra  ye  Mitram  pra  Aryamannm  /lurenih  pra  »angirah  pra 
Fantnam  minanti  \  m  amitretltu  vaiham  India  tumraift  rri*han  rrithnnam 
artuham  Hilhi). 

All  these  texts,  however,  which  arc  so  laudatory  of  Indra,  may  bo 
paralleled  in  the  Rig-vcdu,  not  only  by  similar  one*  referring  to  Mitra 
and  Vararja  (as  wo  have  seen  above),  but  also  by  o  farther  set  of  text*, 
in  which  other  gods  nro  magnified  in  tho  samo  stylo  of  panegyric. 
This  U  in  accordance  with  the  practice  of  the  Indian  potts  to  exag- 
gerate*" (in  a  manner  which  renders  them  often  mutually  inconsistent) 
the  attributes  of  tho  particular  deity  who  happen*  at  the  moment  to  be 
the  object  of  celebration.  Thus  in  ii.  98,  9,  it  is  said  that  neither 
Indra,  Varuna,  Mitra,  Aryaman,  nor  lludra  can  resist  the  ordinance  of 
Baritri  (ho  yatya  Indro  Far  una  na  Afilro  vratam  Aryamii  na  minnnti 
Jtudrah);  and  in  vii.  38,  4,  that  the  divine  Aditi,  and  the  kings  Varurja, 
Mitra,  and  Aryaman  unito  to  magnify  tho  same  deity  [Mi  yati*  devl 
Aditih  grin&ti  suraiw  dtratya  Sadlur  juthunu  j  abhi  aamriijo  Farago 
yrinanti  abhi  Jfttraio  Aryamii  tajotSilh).  Again,  in  i.  166,  4,  it  is 
declared  that  king  Varuna  and  the  Asrins  submit  to  the  power  of 
Vishnu  (tan*  a*ya  r»j'&  Faruna*  tarn  Aiviml  kratum  tatianU  M<intta*ya 
ttdhatah).  In  i.  141,  9,  Vnrunn,  Mitra,  and  Aryaman  nro  said  to 
triumph  through  Agni  when  ho  blazes  forth  (Irayu  hi  Ayns  Faruno 
■  S«0  Mullor't  Anc.  In).  Lit  pp.  634  ff. 


126 


MOTP.ICAr.  SKETCH  OF  INDRA. 


dhritavraU  ilitrah  iitiadro  Aryan)).  In  fab  5,  4,  the  same  god  i» 
besought  to  consume  those  enemies  who  menace  the  stable  abode*  "*  of 
Varuna  and  the  wise  Mitra  (  pra  tan  Ajnir  lttina$at  .  .  .  pra  y«  mi- 
nanti  Varunatya  dktima  priyn  Milraiya  ehtUslo  d\rur&*i).  If,  therefore, 
wo  were  to  infer  from  passages  like  L  101,  8  (which  dedans  Varuna 
end  Surya  to  be  subject  to  Indra),  that  the  worship  of  Indra  wm 
beginning  to  gain  ground  on  that  of  Varuna,  we  should  hare,  in  liku 
manner,  to  conclude  from  the  other  text*  just  cited,  that  the  worship 
of  Savitri,  or  Vishuu,  or  Agni,  was  beginning  to  supersede  that  of  all 
the  other  deities  who  arc  there  subordinated  to  them,  not  excepting 
IuJi  a  himself. 


(12)  Indra  at  rtprmnttd  in  U*  hymn*  ;—«  mttrical  ttttck 

.lie  following  veraea  I  have  endeavoured  to  combine  in  one 
BictDM  the  most  snlicnt  and  characteristic  points  in  the  represen- 
tations of  Indra,  which  ore  contained  in  the  hymn*.  It  will  bo  seen 
that  Borno  part*  of  the  sketch  arc  translation*,  nearly  literal,  of  rerscs 
ixTiiuing  there;  that  other  portions  are  condensed  surnraaiiea  of  epi- 
thet*, or  descriptions,  which  arc  by  far  too  numerous  und  too  similar 
to  each  other  to  be  all  reproduced  in  detail ;  and  tliut  a  third  class  ef 
passages  contains  au  amplification,  and  not  an  approximate  rendering, 
of  the  texts  of  the  original  on  which  they  ore  I'lim!   1. 

(1)  Lu  Hat  ion  oj  Indra  to  the  taerifict. 

Hear,  Indru,  mighty  Thunderer,  hear, 
Bright  regent  of  the  miildlo  sphere  ; 
List  whDc  we  sweetly  ring  t  i 
In  now,  and  well-construrted,  lays, 

irymn.1  d<-!>iy  framed  bj  pott  ricfllod, 

As  nrtijmns  a  chariot  build. 

Come,  Indrn,  come,  thou  mueh-invokpd, 

Our  potent  hymn  thy  steeds  has  yoked ; 

Thy  golden  car  already  wait* 

Thy  plasma  ai  thy  pidace-gatce : 

«•  Onhnsoccs.— Roth,  j.c.  dkn 


ilETOICAL  SKETCH  OP  INDJLU 


127 


Friend  Indra,  from  the  sky  descend, 
Thy  course  propidoiw  hither  b 
Conic  .straight,  anil  may  no  rival  p:  i 
Prevail  to  draw  thee  from  our  fiust. 
I,,  t  uo  one  catch  thco  unaware*, 
Like  bird  the  artful  fowler  snare*. 
All  is  prepared ;  the  Soma  draught 
Is  sweet  as  thou  hast  ever  qoafl 
And  w«  will  feed  with  corn,  and  t 
Thy  coursers  at  their  journey's  rn.l. 
But,  Iiidni,  though  of  OS  llum  thin 
And  our  libationa  gladly  drinkest, 
We,  mortal  men,  can  only  share 
A  humble  portion  of  thy  care. 
We  know  how  many  potent  ties 
Enchain  thee  in  thy  paradise. 
Thou  hast  at  home  a  lovely  wife, 
The  charm  and  solace  of  thy  lift  ; 
Thou  host  a  ceaseless  round  of  joy*, 
Which  nil  thy  circling  hours  employs — 
Joys  such  as  gods  immortal  know, 
Ungnosaed  by  mortals  hero  below. 
But,  brother  Indra,  come-,  benign, 
Accept  our  gifts,  thou  friend  divine. 
Come,  Indra,  come  in  eager  haste. 
Oar  hymns  to  hear,  our  food  to  taste, 

1  >vct  lured  by  female  charms. 
Who  rushes  to  his  mistress'  arms. 
Accept  our  sweet  and  grateful  song ; 
Come,  wo  will  not  detain  thee  lung. 


(2)  Jndra't  birth. 

Rear,  Indra,  while  thy  birth  we  sing, 
The  dceib,  thy  greatness,  glorious  king. 
Old  father  Sky31*  and  mother  Earth 
Both  quaked,  confounded  at  thy  birth. 
M  DyaassZ- 


i'-S 


METRICAL  SKETCH  Of  INDRA. 


Tli    Sky  exclaimed,  at  that  great,  right, 

"  Thy  father  was  &  stalwart  wight ; 

Of  most  consummate  skill  was  he, 

Tho  god  whose  genius)  fashioned  thoe." 

Tin'  ihl'ril  of  ■  t'orco 

Sprang  forth  from  a  transcendant  source. 

A  blessed  mother  bore  thi  child, 

And  fondly  on  her  offspring  smiled, 

I..  !,  lliug  then,  with  pride  and  joy, 

Tin-  might  and  glory  of  the  boy. 

11    needed  not  a  tedious  length 

Of  autumns  to  mature  Ids  strength  ; 

Hi*  force  he  felt  as  won  as  born, 

And  laughed  all  hostile  powers  te  scorn. 

Ompfag  bis  deadly  shaft*,  in  pr> 

Of  prowess,  thus  the  infant  fried : — 

*'  Where,  mother,  dwell  those  warriors  fierce 

Whose  haughty  hearts  those  bolts  raiwt  piereo  ?'* 

And  when  thy  father  proved  thy  too, 

Thy  fury,  Indra,  lnid  him  low. 

Wlto  vainly  sought  thy  lilr  to  r.ike, 

Winn  thou  didst  sleep,  when  thou  didst  wake? 

Who,  Indra,  in  his  vengeful  mood, 

Thy  mother  doomed  to  widowhood  ? 

V  hiit  god  stood  by,  thy  wrath  to  fire, 

When,  seizing  by  the  foot  thy  sire. 

Thou  amot'st  him  dead,  in  youthful  ire  ? 

(3)  Indra  i  arrival. 

Fulfilling  now  our  ardent  pru 
Tin  god  approaches  through  the  air. 
On,  on,  he  cornea,  majestic,  bright. 
Our  longed-for  friend  appears  in  sight. 
His  brilliant  form,  beheld  alar. 
Towers  stately  on  his  golden  car. 
Fair  Aunlikc  lustre,  godlike  grace, 
And  martial  fire  illume  his  face. 


METBICAL   SKETCII    OF   IXDHA. 

Yet  not  one  form  alone  ho  bears, 
But  various  shapes  of  glory  wcars4 
His  aspects  changing  ut  his  will, 
Transmuted,  yot  resplendent  still. 
In  warlike  semblance  sec  hint  stand, 
Bod  lightnings  wielding  in  Ids  hand. 
The  heavenly  rt.-e.ls,  hi*  diining  team, 
With  all  tho  peacock's  colours  gleam. 
Hi  listless,  snorting,  on  they  fly, 
As  swift  as  thought,  across  tho  sky ; 
Ami  ma  bring  nigh  their  mighty  lord, 
To  us,  his  friends,  a  friend  adored. 
Now  Indra  from  the  sky  Amanda  j 
Yes,  yes,  to  us  his  way  he  wends. 
Although  we  see  him  not,  wo  know 
He  now  is  present  hero  below. 
Within  our  hallowed  pririncfn  placed, 
He  longs  our  grateful  feast  to  taste. 

(4)  Indra  inriird  to  drink  ih«  Som/t  draught. 

Thou,  Indra,  oft  of  old  hast  quaffed 
With  keen  delight  our  Soma  drought. 
All  pid*  the  luscious  Soma  love, 
But  thou  nil  other  gods  abo\ -ft, 
Thy  mother  kn  well  this  juico 

Was  fitted  for  her  infant's  use. 
Into  a  eup  she  crushed  tho  snp, 
■\Vhi<  h  thou  didst  sip  upon  her  lap. 
Yes,  Indra,  on  thy  nntal  morn, 
The  very  hour  that  thou  wast  born, 
Thou  didst  those  jovial  tastes  display 
Whieh  still  survive  in  strength  to- 1 1 
And  once,  thou  prince  of  genial  souls, 
Hon  say  thou  drainedst  thirty  bOwifc 
To  thco  the  soma-draught*  proceed, 
As  streamlets  to  tho  lako  they  Coed, 
Or  rivers  to  tho  ocean  speed. 


129 


lau 


METRICAL   SKETCH   OP    INDRA. 

Our  cup  is  foaming  to  the  brim 
With  Soma  pressed  to  sound  of  hymn. 
Come,  drink,  thy  utmost  craving  slab  •, 
Like  thirsty  stag  in  forest  lake, 
Or  bull  that  rooma  iu  arid  waste, 
A Ti.l  burns  the  cooling  brook  to  taste. 
Indulge  thy  taste,  and  quaff  at  will , 
Drink,  drink  again,  profusely  swill, 
Drink,  thy  capacious  stomach  fil  1. 

(5)  Praia*  of  Soma. 

This  Soma  is  a  god ;  he  cures 
The  sharpest  ills  that  man  endures. 
He  heals  tho  sick,  the  sad  he  cheers, 
He  nerves  the  weak,  dispels  their  t'c:u-, 
The  faint  with  martial  ardour  fires, 
With  lofty  thoughts  the  bard  inspires. 
The  soul  from  earth  to  I  lift*; 

So  great  and  wondrous  arc  hi*  gifts. 
Men  feel  the  god  within  their  vein*, 
And  cry  in  loud  exulting  strains: 
11  We've  quaffed  the  Souin  bri 
And  are  immortal  grown; 
We've  entered  into  light, 
And  all  the  gods  hare  known. 
What  mortal  now  can  harm, 
Or  foeman  vex  us  more  ? 
Through  thee  beyond  alarm 
Iramortid  god,  we  soar." 
Tho  gods  themselves  with  pleasure  feel 
King  Soma's  influence  o'er  them  steal; 
And  India  once,  as  bards  huve  told, 
Thus  song  in  merry  mood  of  old : — 


(6)  Indra't  drinking-song. 

"  Yes,  yes,  I  will  be  generous  now, 
And  grant  the  buid  a  horse  and  cow  : 


METRICAL  SKETCn   OF  INDRA, 


131 


I've  quaffed  the  soma-drougbt. 

These  draught*  impel  me  with  the  force 

Of  blosta  that  sweep  in  furious  course : 

I've  quaffed  the  soma-draught. 

Thcj  drive  mo  like  a  car  that  speeds, 

When  whirled  along  by  flying  stt  <  • 

These  hymns  approach  mo  fondly  now, 

As  hastes  to  calf  the  mother-cow. 

I  torn  them  over  as  1  muse, 

As  carpi -71  trr  the  leg  lm  hr\\-. 

The  tribes  of  men,  the  nations  all, 

I  count  as  something  very  small. 

Both  worlds,  how  vast  soe'er  they  he, 

Don't  equal  even  the  half  of  da. 

The  heaven  in  greatness  I  surpass, 

And  this  broad  earth,  though  vast  her  moss, 

Come,  let  me  as  a  plaything  seize, 

And  toss  her  where  soe'er  I  please. 

Come,  let  mo  smite  with  vigorous  blow, 

And  send  her  flying  to  and  fro. 

My  half  is  in  the  heavenly  sphere, 

1  '•.  |  drawn  the  other  half  down  hero. 

How  great  my  glory  and  my  power  1 

Aloft  into  the  skies  I  tower. 

I'm  ready  now  to  mount  in  air, 

Oblations  to  the  gods  to  bear  : 

I've  quaffed  the  Boma-draught.** 

(7)  Indra  drinks  tfte  libalion. 

And  not  in  vain  the  mortal  prays, 
aothiag  loth  the  god  obeys, 
The  proffered  bowl  ho  takes; 
Well  trained  tho  genorouB  juice  to  drain, 
iioSs  it  once,  he  quaffs  again, 
Till  all  his  thirst  be  ddBM. 

•'  drinkiag  •sag"  is  4  ttmtuUtioa,  u  wo  hnro  already  seen,  p.  91,  nearly 
,  of  lh«  l!«t*  byoaof  tOa  10th  Book  wf  lh«  Rig-roJa. 


132  METIUCaX   8KETCH  OP  INDOA. 

And  soon  it*  power  the  Soma  shows, 
Through  Indra's  veins  tho  influence  flowa, 

"With  fervour  flushed  he  stand*  ; 
Ilia  forehead  glows,  his  eyes  are  fired, 
His  mighty  frame  with  force  inspired, 

Ilia  towering  form  expands. 
Ho  straightway  ralla  his  brave  allies. 
To  valorous  deeds  oxhorta,  and  cries — 

"  Stride,  Vishnu,  forward  sttida  j 
Come,  Marut*,  forth  with  mo  to  > 
8ee  yondor  Vjittra  stands  afar, 
And  waits  tho  coming  of  my  car ; 

Wo  soon  ihall  crush  hi*  pride." 

(8)  Intra,  att«ndtt  by  th$  Mar  uU,  tttt  out  U>  ntntnltr  VriUra. 
Amid  the  plaudits,  long  and  loud, 
Wliiili  hurst  from  all  tin'  ht  M i -i.ly  crowd, 
Channel  by  the  sweet  and  magic  sound 
Of  hymns  pronounced  by  bards  HD01  in  d, 
Viewed  by  iidmiring  tnwps  of  friends, 
The  valiant  god  his  car  ascends. 
Swept  by  hia  fervid  bounding  Htceds, 
Athwart  the  sky  the  hero  *\» 
The  Marut-hojt3  hu  escort  form, 
Impetuous  spirit*  of  tho  storm. 
On  Hushing  lightning-cars  they  ride, 
And  gleam  in  warlike  pomp  and  prido : 
Each  head  a  gulden  helmet  crests, 
And  glittering  muil  adorns  their  breasta; 
Spears  on  their  shoulders  rest,  their  hand* 
Bear  arrows,  bows,  and  lightning-brands. 
Bright  tinkling  anklet*  deck  their  feet, 
And  thought  than  they  is  not  more  fleet ; 
Like  lions'  roar  their  voice  of  doom  ; 
With  iron  force  their  teeth  consume. 
The  hills,  tho  earth  itaelf,  they  shake, 
All  creatures  at  their  coming  quake ; 


METRICAL  SKETCH  OP  IN  DBA. 

Their  headlong  fury  none  can  stay, 
All  obstacle*  are  swept  away. 
The  forest'*  leafy  monarchs  tall 
Before  their  onset  crashing  fall, 
As  when  in  fierce  destructive  mood 
Wild  elephants  invade  a  wood. 


(9)  Jndra'$  conflict  aith  Frittr*, 

Who  is  it  that,  without  alarm, 
Drill  i  tin:  ntgbf  of  Endm'a  tan ; 
That  Blonds  and  sees  without  dismay 
The  approaching  Maruts*  dread  array; 
That  does  not  thim,  in  wild  affright. 
The  terrors  of  the  deadly  fight  ? 
'Tis  Vrittra,1"  he  whose  magic  powers 
From  earth  withhold  the  gcniul  showers, 
Of  mortal  men.  the  foe  malign, 
And  rival  of  the  race  divine, 
Whose  demon  host*  from  age  to  ago 
With  Indra  war  unceasing  wage, 
Who,  times  unnumbered,  crushed  and  slain, 
Is  ever  newly  born  again, 
And  evermore  renews  the  strifo 
In  which  again  he  forfeits  life. 
Perched  on  u  steep  aerial  height, 
Shone  Yrittra'a  stately  fortress  bright. 
Upon  the  wall,  in  martial  mood, 
The  bold  gigantic  demon  stood, 
Confiding  in  his  magic  arts. 
And  armed  with  store  of  fiery  darts. 
And  then  was  seen  a  dreadful  Bghl , 
When  god  and  demon  met  in  fight. 
His  sharpest  missiles  Vrittra  shot, 
His  thunderbolt*  and  lightnings  hot 
He  hurled  as  thick  as  rain. 

131  Th«  ifcncn  who  pcrtoniCc*  iLrought,  aid  it  »Uo  called  8'ttthn*  mid  AM. 


134 


METRICAL   SKETCH   OP   INDRA. 


The  god  his  fierce*  rage  defied, 

His  Hunted  weapons  glanced  aside, 

At  Inilra  launched  in  vain. 
When  thus  he  long  had  vainly  toiled. 
When  all  his  weapons  had  recoiled, 
His  final  efforts  had  been  foiled, 

And  all  his  foreo  consumed, — 
In  gloomy  and  despairing  mood 
The  baffled  demon  helpless  stood, 

And  knew  his  end  was  doomed. 
The  lightnings  then  began  to  flash, 
The  direful  thunderbolts  to  crash, 

By  India  proudly  hurled. 
The  gods  themselves  with  awe  wore  stilled 
And  stood  aghast,  and  terror  filled 

The  universal  world. 
Even  Tvnshtii  eegc,  whoso  master-hand 
Hud  forged  tho  bolts  his  art  had  planned, 

Who  well  their  temper  knew, — 
Quailed  when  he  heard  the  dreadful  clang 
That  through  the  quivering  welkin  rang, 

Aa  o'er  the  sky  they  flew. 
And  who  the  arrowy  showw  could  stand, 
Discharged  by  lndra's  red  right  hand, — 
Tho  thunderbolts  with  hundred  joints, 
Tho  iron  shaft*  with  thousand  points, 
Which  blaze  and  hiss  athwart  tho  sky, 
Swift  to  their  mark  unerring  lly, 
And  lay  the  proudest  foemon  low, 
With  sudden  and  resistless  blow, 
Whose  very  sound  can  put  to  flight 
The  fools  who  dare  the  Thunderer's  might  ? 
And  soon  the  knell  of  Vrittra's  doom 
Was  sounded  by  tho  clang  and  boom 

Of  lndra's  iron  shower ; 
Pierced,  cloven,  crushed,  with  horrid  yell, 
Tho  dying  demos  headlong  fell 


METRICAL  SKETCH  OP  IJfDRA. 


13S 


Down  from  his  cloud-built  tower. 
2Tow  bound  by  Sushna'H  spell  no  more. 
The  cloud*  discharge  Bub  liquid  store ; 
And,  long  by  torrid  sunbeams  bukod, 
The  plains  by  copious  showers  are  slaked ; 
The  rivers  swell,  and  sea-ward  sweep 
Their  turbid  torrents  broud  and  deep. 
The  peasant  views,  with  deep  delight 
And  thankful  heart,  the  auspicious  sight. 
His  leafless  fields,  so  sere  and  sad, 
Will  soon  with  waring  crops  be  clad, 
And  mother  Earth,  now  brown  and  bare, 
A  robe  of  brilliant  green  will  wear. 
And  now  the  clouds  disperse,  the  blue 
Of  heaven  once  more  comes  forth  to  view. 
The  sun  shines  out,  all  nature  smiles, 
Ilcdccmed  from  Vrittra's  power  and  wiles ; 
The  gods,  with  gratulations  meet, 
And  loud  acclaim,  the  victor  greet ; 
While  India's  mortul  votaries  sing 
The  praises  of  their  friend  and  king. 
The  frogs,  too,  dormant  long,  awake, 
And  floating  on  the  brimming  lake, 
In  loud  responsive  croak  unite, 
And  swell  the  chorus  of  delight. 

(10)  Tndra'tgre<tine*$. 

What  poet  now,  what  sage  of  old, 

The  greatness  of  that  god  hath  tohl , 

Who  from  his  body  vast  gave  birth 

To  father  Sky  and  mother  Earth  ; 

Who  bung  the  heavens  in  empty  space, 

And  gave  the  earth  a  stable  base ; 

Who  framed  and  lighted  np  the  son, 

And  made  a  path  for  him  to  ran  ; 

Whose  power  transcendent,  since  their  birth 

Asunder  holds  the  heaven  and  earth, 


13G 


METRICAL   SKETCH    OP   ISDBA. 


At  chariot-wheels  arc  kept  apart 
By  axle*  framed  by  workmen's  art? 
In  greatness  who  with  Ilim  can  vie, 
Who  fills  the  earth,  the  air,  the  sky, 
Whose  presence  tmpcrccivcd  extends 
lUyond  the  world's  remotest  ends  ? 
A  hundred  earths,  if  such  there  be, 
A  hundred  skies  full  short  of  thee ; 
A  thousand  Buns  would  not  outshine 
The  effulgence  of  thy  light  divine. 
The  worlds,  which  mortals  boundless  deem, 
Tci  tin!  lmt  u  a  handful  seem. 
Thou,  Indru,  art  without  a  peer 
On  earth,  or  yonder  heavenly  sphere. 
Thee,  god,  such  matchless  power*  ad 
That  thou  without  a  foe  wast  born. 
Thou  urt  tho  universal  lord,    • 
By  gods  revered,  by  men  odorvtL 
Should  all  the  other  gods  conspire, 
Th'. •>•  could  not  frustrate  thy  desire. 
The  circling  years,  which  wear  away 
All  else,  to  thco  bring  no  decay  j 
Thou  bloomeBt  on  in  youthful  force, 
Whilo  countless  ages  run  their  course. 
Unvexcd  by  cares,  or  fears,  or  strife, 
In  bliss  serene  flows  on  thy  life. 


(11)  Indra't  relatiom  h  hit  «w*Ai/>/wr«. 

Thou,  Indro,  art  a  friend,  a  brother, 
A  kinsman  dear,  a  father,  mother. 
Though  thou  hast  troops  of  friend*,  yet  we 
Can  boast  no  other  friend  but  thee. 
With  this  our  hymn  thy  skirt  we  grasp, 
As  boys  their  father's  garment*  clasp  ; 
Our  ardent  prayers  thy  form  embrace, 
As  women's  arms  their  lords  cnlaci  j 


METRICAL   SKKTCII    OF   INDRA. 


137 


They  round  thoo  cling  with  gentle  force, 
Liko  saddle-girth  iiround  a  horse. 
With  faith  wo  claim  thine  aid  divine, 
For  thou  art  ours,  and  we  are  thine. 
Thou  art  not  deaf;  though  far  away, 
Thou  hcurest  oil,  whnte'er  we  pruy. 
And  in  not  liko  a  lazy  priest, 
Who  batten*  ut  the  dainty  feast, 
Site  still  in  self-indulgent  vase, 
And  only  cares  himself  to  please. 
Come,  dole  not  out  with  niggard  hand 
The  brilliant  boon*  at  thy  command. 
Thy  gracious  hands  are  wont  to  grunt 
Profusely  oil  thy  servants  want 
Why  is  it,  then,  thou  sittest  still, 
And  dost  not  now  our  hopes  fulfil  ? 
If  I  were  thou,  and  thou  wert  I, 
My  suppliant  should  not  rainly  cry. 

thou  a  mortal,  I  dhin. , 
In  want  I  ne'er  would  let  thec  pine. 
Had  I,  like  thec,  unbounded  power, 
I  gifts  on  all  my  friends  would  shower. 
Shed  wealth,  us  trees,  when  shaken,  ruin 
Their  ripo  fruit  down  upon  the  plain. 
Thy  strong  right  hand,  great  god,  wo  hvld 
With  eager  grasp,  imploring  gold. 
Thou  const  our  longings  all  fulfil, 
If  such  shall  only  be  thy  will. 
Liko  headlong  bull's,  thy  matchless  fore© 
Strikes  all  things  down  that  bar  thy  course. 
Art  thou  to  gracious  acts  inclined  ? 
Then  who  shall  make  thec  change  thy  mind  ? 
Abundant  aids  shoot  forth  from  thee, 
As  leafy  boughs  from  vigorous  tree. 
To  wifeless  men  thou  pi  vest  wives, 
\n<\  joyful  muk'st  their  joyless  lives. 


]38 


METRICAL   SKETCH    OP    INDRA. 


Thou  givest  sons,  courageous,  strong, 
To  guard  their  aged  sires  from  wrong. 
Lands,  jowcls,  horses,  herds  of  kinc, — 
All  kinds  of  wealth  are  gifts  of  thine. 
Thy  friend  is  never  ulain  ;  hie  might 

fa  rifvi  i  mated  in  the  fight 

Yes,  those  who  in  tho  battlo's  shock, 

Thine  aid,  victorious  god,  invoke, 

With  force  inspired,  with  deafening  shout 

Of  triumph,  put  their  foc-s  to  rout. 

Thou  blcMcat  those  thy  praise  who  sing, 

And  plcntooua  gifts  devoutly  bring  ; 

But  thou  chastuKst  ull  tho  proud, 

Tho  niggard,  and  tho  faithless  crowd, 

Who  thine  existence  doubt,  and  cry 

In  scorn,  "No  Indra  rules  on  high." 

Tl»:  rich  can  ne'er  thy  favourites  he, 

The  rich  who  never  think  of  thee. 

When  storms  arc  lulled,  uud  skies  are  bright, 

Winc-swillors  tront  theo  with  despite. 

When  clouds  collect  and  thunders  roar, 

The  scoffers  tremble  und  adore. 

No  deed  ia  done  but  thou  dost  see ; 

No  word  i(t  said  unheard  by  thee. 

The  futcs  of  mortals  thou  dost  wield ; 

To  thy  decree  the  strongest  yield. 

Thou  dost  the  high  and  fierce  abate, 

The  lowly  raisoat  in  their  place. 

But  thy  troc  friends  secure  repose, 

By  theo  redeemed  from  all  their  woes, 

From  straits  brought  forth  to  ample  room, 

To  glorious  light  from  thickest  gloom. 

And  thou  dost  view  with  special  grace, 

The  fair-complexioned  Aryan  race, 

Who  own  the  gods,  their  laws  obey, 

And  pious  homage  duly  pay. 


section  vrr. 


I'AIJANY.-.. 


Tlio  following  hymn,  R.V.  t.  88,  affords  a  picturesque  description  of 
ParJAD)  a,  the  thundering  rain-god  : 

r.  83,  1.  Athha  tada  tavatam  g'trbhir  dbhiA  tluhi  Parjanyam  nainasu 
M  |  ianikradad  t  rithabho  j'i  radii  nuh  reio  dadAati  othadhitA*  gar- 
bham  |  2.  Pi  triteh&n  Aanti  ttta  hanti  raksAaao  ti&cam  bibh/tya  bhuranam 
mahiivadhat  |  uta  antiguA  ItAatt  rfithnydvato  yat  ParfanyaA  itanayan 
ha»t\  dtuhlcrifafy  |  3.  Rathlea  taiayA  'han  abAihhipann  dri'r  datum 
krinule  varthySn  aha  \  dQrtit  timhatya  ilanathuh  ud  \rate  yat  ParjanyaA 
kririiite  vanhyaih  nabltah  \  A.  Pra  vdttih  vunti  pataytmti  tidyutah  ud 
ashtidhlr  jihaU  pintata  nah  |  iVd  riivasmai  bhucantiyn  jfiyalt  yat  Par* 
janyaA  pritAivlih  rettftd  'rati  \  5.  Yatya  trait  prithici  tumnamlti  yatya 
vratt  laphacaj  jarbhurUi  |  yatya  vrafo  othadhlr  riirar&puh  ta  nah  Par- 
fanya  mahi  iarma  yachha  |  8.  Din  no  vruhfim  Month  rarldhtam pra 
pinrata  trithno  ascatya  dAdrdA  \  arvan  etena  slanayiintmu'  d  ihi  opo 
nithxnehann  aturah  pita  nah  |  7-  Abhi  kranda  itanaya  garbham  u  Atf 
udanvatd  pari  diya  rathtna  \  driiim  tu  kar*h«  nisAitam  ftyantAam  tamdh 
bhacanlu  vdrato  nipSdah  |  8.  MaAantafn  kofam  ud  asha  niiAiittha  *ya*- 
dantuth  foilyah  tithitdh  puraxtut  |  ghrittna  dyucd-prithivl  pi  uttdhi 
tvprap/inam.  bhavatu  oghtiyubhyah  \  9.  Tat  Parptnya  kanikradal  itana- 
yan  hafnti  duthkritah  \  prati  idam  riiram  modate  yat  kineha  ppthicyutn 
adhi  |  10.  Atartklr  tartAam  ud  u  tu  gribhiiya  alar  dhanu'ini  ati 
ttacai  ii  |  ajijanah  othadhlr  bhajandya  lam  ttta  prajdbhyo  avide  ma- 
nU/idm  | 

1.  "Address  the  powerful  (god)  with  those  words;  laud  Fnjanys ; 
worship  him  with  rcrcrcucc :  tho  procrcataTo  and  stimulating  fructifier, 
resounding,  sheds  his  seed  and  impregnates  tho  plants.  2.  He  splits 
the  trees,  ho  destroys  tho  Rakshasee  |  the  whole  creation  is  afraid  of 


PA1UAXYA. 


141 


the  mighty  stroke;  eren  the  innocent  man  flees  before  the  vigorous 
god,  whoa  Parjanyn  thundering  smites  the  evil  docm.*"  3.  Liko  a 
charioteer  urging  forward  hi*  hones  with  a  whip,  the  god  brings  into 
view  his  showery  scouts.  From  afar  the  lion's  roaringB  arise,  when 
Parjanyn  charges  the  clouds  with  rain.  4.  The  winds  blow,  the 
lightnings  full,  the  plants  shoot  up;  the  heaven  fructifies  ;  food  is  pro- 
duced for  all  created  things,  when  Parjanyn,  thundering,  replenish?* 
the  earth  with  moisture.  5.  Parjanyn,  before  whose  agency  the  earth 
bows  down,  at  whose  operation  all  hoofed  cattle  quiver;  by  whose 
action  plants  (spring  up)  of  every  form  ;  do  thou  grant  us  thy  mighty 
protection.  6.  Grant  to  us,  lb  ruts,  tho  rain  of  the  sky;  replenish 
the  streams  of  tho  procrcativc  horso  ;  como  hither  with  this  thy 
thunder,  our  divino  father,  shedding  waters.  7.  Resound,  thunder, 
impregnate,  rush  hither  and  thither  with  thy  watery  chariot.  Draw 
on  forward  with  theo  thy  opened  and  inverted  water-skin ;  lot  tho  hills 
and  dales  be  levelled.  8.  Raise  nloft  thy  vast  water-vessel,  and  pour 
down  showers ;  let  the  discharged  rivulets  roll  on  forward ;  moiston  tho 
heaven  and  earth  with  fatness;  let  there  he  well-filled  drink ing-places 
for  tho  cows.  9.  When  thou,  Parjnnya,  resounding  and  thundering, 
dost  slay  tho  evil-doers,  the  whole  universe  rejoices,  whatever  lives  upon 
tho  curth.  10.  Thou  hast  shed  down  rain;  now  desist;  thou  hast 
made  the  waterless  wastes  fit  to  bo  traversed;  thou  hast  generated 
plants  for  food,  and  thou  hast  fulfilled  tho  desires  of  living  creatures."  *" 
Psrjanya  ia  also  celebrated  in  two  other  hymns  of  tho  Rig-vcda,  viz., 
vii.  101,  102.  The  latter  consists  of  only  three  verses,  and  tho  former 
is  Ism  spirited  and  poetical  than  that  which  I  hare  translated.  It 
assigns  to  Parjanya,  however,  several  grander  epithets  sad  functions 
than  are  found  in  the  other,  as  it  represents  this  deity  as  tho  lord  of 
all  moving  creatures  (vii.  101,  2:  ye  tikatya  jagato dtvak  lit);  declares 

«**  There  do**  not  «*m  to  be  any  sufficient  reason  to  understand  evildoers  here, 
sod  in  verse  9,  of  the  cloud  demons,  who  withold  rain,  or  simply  of  tho  malignant 
clouds,  u  S4yona  ia  hb  ox  plantation  of  Terse  9  (papalfHo  m*f\ai>)  does.  The  pott 
may  naturally  hum  tuppoerd  that  it  ni  exclusively  or  principally  the  wu'lced  who 
wwe  itraclt  down  by  thunderbolts.  Dr.  lluhlur  thinls  the  cloud-di-raoru  are  meant 
(Orient  and  Occident,  i.  217,  note  2). 

*°  This  last  clause  ia  translated  according  to  Professor  Roth's  explanation,  «.r. 
"•»«»>,  Wilson,  following  Barana,  readers  "  verily  thoa  boat  obtained  laudation 
from  the  people,"  sad  Dr.  BUhlcr  given  the  name  avaie  ■  "  thoa  hast  received  praise 
•turn  the  creatures."     iVspaoAya*  may  of  coune  be  either  a  dative  or  ablative. 


142 


PAIUANYA. 


that  ell  worlds  (or  creature*),  and  the  three  sphere*  abide  in  him  (ibid. 
4  :  yatmin  riivdn!  hhtttanAni  tatthiu  titro  dyticak)  ;  thot  in  him  in  tho 
soul  of  all  things  moving  and  stationary*'  (ibid.  6:  tcttainn  atmd 
ityatai  Uututkai  cha) ;  and  designate*  him  as  the  independent  monarch 
(ibid.  5  :  narijt).  In  vii.  102,  1,  he  is  colled  the  eon  of  Bvaua  or  the 
Sky  (2fcr<M  pwtriya).  Farjnnya  is  also  mentioned  in  various  detached 
verses  in  the  K.  V.,  via.  iv.  67,  8  ;  v.  63,  4,  6 ;  vi.  52,  8 ;  vii.  85,  10  ; 
viii.  8,  1;  viii.  21,  18;  ix.  2,  9 ;  ix.  22,  2;  x.  66,  6;  x.  88,  I,  8; 
x.  169,  2.  In  vi  49,  6;  vi.  50,  12;  x.  65,  9  ;  x.  66,  10,  he  is  con- 
joined with  Vita  the  wind  (Parjanya-tAU,  Vdta-parjanya),  and  in  vi. 
52,  16,  with  Agm"  (Agmparjnnyau).  In  ix.  82,  3,  ho  is  called  the 
father  of  the  great  leafy  plant  soma  (Parjmyak  pita  mahitkttya  pm- 
ninak  |  compare  ix.  113,  9). 

Parjanya  forms  the  subject  of  two  papers  by  I)r.  0.  Buliler,  the  one 
in  Engliah  in  the  Transections  of  the  London  Philological  Society  for 
1859,  pp.  164  if.,  and  the  other  in  German  in  Bcnfcy's  Orient  und 
Occident,  vol.  i.  (1862)  pp.  214  ff.  The  latter  of  these  paper*  is  not 
however,  a  translation  of  the  former.  The  former  contains  on  English 
version  of  the  hymns  R.V.  t.  83 ;  vii.  101,  and  vii.  102 ;  to  which  the 
German  article  adds  a  translation  of  A.V.  iv.  15,  a  hymn  consisting  of 
sixteen  verses.  The  English  paper  contains  a  comparison  of  Parjanya 
with  tho  Lithuanian  god  Pcrkunas,  the  god  of  thunder,  which  is  not 
reproduced  in  the  German  essay.  Dr.  Diihlor  holds  Parjanya  to  have 
been  decidedly  distinct  from  Indra  (Transact  Phil.  8oo.  p.  167,  nod 
Or.  und  Occ.  229).  In  the  English  paper  he  says  (p.  161)  •  "Taking 
a  review  of  the  whole,  we  find  that  Parjanya  is  a  god  who  presides) 
over  the  lightning,  tho  thunder,  the  rain,  and  the  procreation  of  plants 
and  living  creatures.  But  it  is  by  no  means  clear  whether  he  is  ori- 
ginally a  god  of  tho  rain,  or  a  god  of  the  thunder."  He  inclines  how- 
ever to  think  that  from  the  etymology  of  his  name,  and  the  analogy 
between  him  and  Pexkunas,  he  was  originally  tho  thunder-god  (pp. 
161-167).  In  bis  German  essay,  his  conclusion  is  (p.  226)  that 
Parjanya  is  "  the  god  of  thunderstorms  and  rein,  tho  generator  and 
nourishcr  of  plants  and  living  crcfituros." 


»W  Compart  i.  1 16,  1,  vrhere  the  simc  tiling  u  said  of  SHrra, 


Ha 


SECTION    VIII. 


VAYU. 


Vayn,  the  wind,  as  wo  have  already  hood,  ia  often  associated  with 
lain.  Htealni.2,4;  i.  14,  3 ;  i.  23,  2  ;  i.  135,  4  ff.  (d  itf«  ratio 
niyntrdn  wtsAart  «it<M*  a&Ai'  praydSui  tudhitCni  tltaye  i«Zyo  hacyani 
w\t*y$  |  pibatmm  moAkeo  andkatah  pureaptyain  hi  «JiS  hitam  |  "Let 
your  car  with  team  of  bones  bring  you  to  our  aid ;  and  to  the  offering* 
which  are  well-arranged  for  eating ;  Viyu,  the  oblations  [arc  wcll-ar- 
raaged)  lor  eating.  Drink  of  the  soma,  for  to  yon  twain  belongs  the 
right  to  take  the  first  draught;"  and  see  the  next  verse);  L  189,  1  ;  ii. 
41, 3 ;  it.  48, 9ft;  it.  47, 2ff. ;  t.  61, 4, 6f. ;  Tii.90, 5ff. ;  vii.  91,  4  ff. ; 
x.  66, 9 ;  x.  141, 4.  The  two  gods  appear  to  bare  boon  regarded  by  tho 
ancient  expositors  of  the  Veda  as  closely  connected  with  each  other ; 
for  the  Nairuktas,  as  quoted  by  Task*  (Xirukta,  vii.  5),  while  they  fix 
upon  Agni  and  Surya  as  the  representatives  of  the  terrestrial  and 
celestial  gods  respectively,  speak  of  Vftyu  and  Indra  in  eonjnnetion,  as 
deities,  cither  of  whom  may  represent  those  of  the  intermediate  sphere ! 
Tim  ok  ma  tUtatCh  iti  NairuktAfr  Agnih  pfithirl-itfolno  FOyur  v<l  Iniro 
c«I  antarHtha-tthanah  ifiryo  dyu-»(hdnah  |  "There  are  three  gods  ac- 
cording to  the  Nairuktas,  vix.,  Agni,  whose  place  in  on  earth,  VAyu,  or 
Indra,  whose  place  is  in  the  air,  and  Surya,  whoso  place  is  in  tho 
heaven,"  etc. 

Voyu  docs  not  occupy  a  very  prominent  place  in  the  Rig-veda.  If 
we  except  the  allegorical  description  in  the  Purusha  Siikta,  x.  80,  13, 
where  he  is  •aid  to  have  sprung  from  the  breath  of  Purusha  {prtiQaJ 
V&t/ur  aj&yata),  or  unless  we  understand  vii.  90, 3  (rtiyt  nu  yaihjajnetuh 
roidUl  iow  I  •*  Ho  whom  the  two  worlds  generated  for  wealth ")   to 

Bert  that  he  was  produced  by  heaven  and  earth,  1  am  aware  of  no 
paawgn  whore  the  parentage  of  Vftyu  is  declared.     lie  is,  however, 


141 


VATT. 


raid  to  bo  the  son-in-law  of  TVaahfti  &&•  26,  21  f.  6iw  Vayo  fitatpaiU 
Tctuh\ur  jiimafar  adbkuta  \  avafnti  a  erinlmaha  |  22.  T^uhfur  juma- 
taram  tayitm  iiiinam  rayah  'imahi  \  tutavanto  V&yum  dynmtw  jandtah  \ 
21.  "Wo  aak  thy  succours,  o  Vuyu,  lord  of  rites,  wondroos  soo-in- 
law  of  Tranhtfi.  22.  "Wo  men  offering  libations  resort  to  Viijrn, 
Tvastyri'B  son-in-law,  the  lord  of  wealth,  and  seek  for  splendour") ; 
but  his  wife's  name  is  not  given.*15  But  few  epithets  are  applied  to 
him.  He  is  called  darlata,  "sightly,"  "beautiful,"  or  "  conspitious' 
(i.  2,  1),  and  tupmrattanu,  "most  handsome  in  form"  (riiL  26, 
24).  He  is  naturally  described  aa  krandad-Uhfi,  "rushing  noisily 
onwards"  (x.  100,  2).  Together  with  Indra,  ho  is  designated  as  touch- 
ing the  sky,  swift  as  thought,  wise,  thousand-eyed  {dnitpriid,  monger*, 
viprH,  eahanitithS,  i.  23,  2,  3).  He  moves  in  a  shining  car,  drawn  by 
a  pair  of  red  or  purple  horsos  (L  134,  3 :  VSyw  y unlit*  rthitA  Fuyur 
aruna),  or  by  several  teams  of  horses,  ckandr«*«  rathena,  niyuteata 
ratfona  (iv.  48,  1 ;  i.  134,  1 ;  i.  135,  4 ;  iv.  47,  1),  Ilia  team  fa 
said  to  consist  of  ninety-nine,  of  a  hundred,  or  even  of  a  thousand  horses, 
yoked  by  his  will,  i.  135,  1,  3  {tahatrenn  niyuti  |  niyuibhih  iatimlbhih  | 
Mahatrinlbhh  |) ;  ii.  41,  1  (tahatriwa  rntAflsa*);  iv.  48,  4,  3  {rahantu 
tea  mtnwyujo  yuktuto  natatir  nava) ;  vii.  91,  6 ;  vii.  92,  1,  5.  As  before 
mentioned  (p.  86),  Indra  and  Viyo  frequently  occupy  the  same  chariot, 
iv.  46,  2;  iv.  48,  2  {Indra-t(trathih  \  Vayo);  vii.  91,  6  (/mfacdjra 
aaratham  ydtam  arriik),  which  has  its  framework  of  gold,  which 
touches  the  sky,  and  is  drawn  by  a  thousand  hones,  iv.  46,  3,  4  (a 
k!m  nhairam  harayah  IndravAyH  Mi  prayah  \  tdhont*  mnmiplUya  \ 
rathaih  hiranyaiandhuram  **  IndrarSyd  avadharam  \  S  hi  ithuiho  dm- 
apriiam).  Vuyu,  hke  the  other  Rods,  is  a  drinker  of  soma.  In  fact,  he 
alone,  or  in  conjunction  with  Indra,  was,  by  the  admission  of  the  other 
gods,  entitled  to  the  first  draught  of  this  libation,  i.  131,  I ;  i.  1 35, 1.-1 
(tubhyam  hi  pdirpplUiyt  det&h  dtr&ya  yemir*  |  4.  PHrvaptyaik  hi  r4* 
hit-am);  iv.  46,  1  (<m*  hi  pGrrapOh  tui);  v.  43,  8;  vii.  92,  2  (pr* 
pad  rdA  tnadhrah  agriyam  bkaranti  adhtaryatah) ;  viii.  26,  25.*"    It  is 

n*  Sijaoa  riTM  no  lirlp.  II*  mrrrljr  nji :  ttka  kit  ha  iliiasadtHir  «fy— forjrt  | 
"This  ttorj  is  to  be  learned  from  the  Iuhisu,  etc."  In  the  Section  oa  Twain  we 
ilall  t*»  that  aecordiag  to  R.T.  x.  17,  1  f.  he  bad  •  daughter  called  Siragra,  who 
wa»  the  wife  of  Virarrat ;  but  Tirsrrat  i*  not  identical  with  Vara. 

i*  Begirding  the  word  v*nJ\*n>  see  s  note  is  the  Secttoa  oa  lbs  AsVins. 

m  Oa  this  subject  wo  nod  the  foUowiay  story  in  the  Aitarejs  Brthmwpt,  ii  23 : 


TATO,    HYMNS   A1W.ES&EI>  TO    niSf. 


145 


remnrknble  that  Yiyu  is  but  rarely  connected  with  the  SfaruU  or 
1  of  the  storm;  but  in  one  place  (i.  134,  4)  he  is  said  to  fan* 
begotten  them  from  the  rivers  of  heaven  fafrway*  JJnnito  taiihanubhyo 
iivah  a  valthanahhyah);  and  in  another  place  (i.  142,  12)  to  be  at- 
tended by  Puahan,  the  Morula  and  the  Yi9ve  devaa  (PiUhaniate  3far*l- 
vate  tiicadnAya  Tflyair). 

The  following  hymns  arc  addressed  to  Vi'itn  (another  name  of  tho 
god  of  tho  wind).     Tho  imagery  in  the  first  is  highly  poetical : 

X.  168,  1.  I 'Slaty  a  nu  nunhmUnam  ratfuteya  rujnnn  tti  ttanayonn  anja 
fh;tkttK  |  dieiippif  ffdti  ttrunam'  kriHiwnn  uto  Hi  pfitbiry&h 
**y<tn  |  2.  Sam  prer&l«  anu  vAUuya  cuhfhdh  A  MAR  gaehhanti  mmadh 
no  y.-uhah.  |  t&bhih  saipift  mratMaift  dtvah  It/all  UJ*.  riirtuija  bhuvamuya 
rajtl  |  9.  Anlarikihe  palhibhir  lyamAtvo  no.  hi  viiate  katamath  thana 
ahah  |  tip&Hi  mkhH  prathamajoh  paUtti  I M  I  7  jilluh  kutah  AbabhQea  | 
6tmd  detunum  bhuvaiuuya  garb/to  yalhuvaium  eharati  derah  uhah  \ 
phoa/iiii  id  atyt  tjimvir*  ua  rupnm  ttuwu  haviiAd  ridhema  \ 

"  I-  (I  celebrate)  the  glory  of  Vatu'a  clmriot;  its  noise  come*  rending 
and  resounding.  Touching  the  sky,  he  moves  onwurd,  making  nil 
things  ruddy  :  and  he  cornea  propelling  the  du.-t  of  tfaa  earth.    2.  Tlio 


IWSfr  Mi  Stmatya  nijna'ar'ijieyt  na  samapuJayann  "aham  ptalhamah  pibtyam'' 
"aAam  pralhatatlf  fniryam'  ity  era  akumai/anta  \  It  wampaiaganto  'Annan  "  ki*m 
ijim  •yrima  MyoMdA  i(j/MAya<i  «  pr*tr\*m*l)  wmatya  paryali"  Hi  |  "  ItlSH"  Hi  | 
14  ujim  tytu)  |  try  bam  Hjim  y.iiYlm  aaJniritifiiaiam  Yaytr  muklurm  prmtMama*  prafy*. 
pajytla  a!  ha  Mr*  'Ik*  MHrnrar^at  a/la  Mritttm  |  to  'tti  /**>«  I'oyhm  ud  t*i 
jmyali  Hi  lam  inn  pmrapalat  |  M  b*  "na*  alb*  nfrayir*"  •>•  \  "  "  M  "  ifjr  abrathl 
"aAam  arm  itytaayami"  iti  j  "  tftUyam.  ma'tba  mjayUta"  Hi  \  "a»"  Hi  ha  era 
aaratrJ-'atUm  m*  w/jribyimi"  Hi  \  "  Imriyam  m* '!'■ 

ttartyt  'tfhrjala  |  1*1  luriya-hkiia  /mini  'bktival   tribrVig  Vhyttk  \  tarn  aaka  tarn 
SmJrarnyu  wUjayttom  uha  MUr*Mr\tncm  *T.tn  .l.'r  ftUM  |  "TBe  Jfod«  (hd  not  OgTC* 
I  RfarA  to  tho  lint  draught  >.•(  kin^  Suim  ;  but  <*.•!«  •  i  I  «t  m«  drink 

t  drink  Unit."     Cat  coming  to  an  tmuijftrocnt,  Out  Mid :  '  Come,  let 
run  •  race,  and  the  rkte  »lull  fimt  drink  the  Somu .'  .   mid  Hi»t 

TIut  ran  a  rare  accordingly ;  and  vben  ilicy  KUrtml  and  ran.  Vfiyu  ftrst  raached 
i  goal,  then  Iodra,  tlictt  Mitra  and  VaruM,  ind  lut  the  .U'linv  India  thought 
i  atigat  beat  Vsya,  and  h«  followed  him  fln«*!y ;  and  uid  '  Ltt  ua  two  now  be  tho 
.'  rejoined  Vara,  '  1  alone  shall  be  tho  winner."  'Let  us  to  win 
that  I  shall  haTt  a  third  (of  tho  draught),'  uid  Indra.  '  No,'  said  Vara. 
•I  alone  shall  be  tbt  winner.'  •  I.<t  aj  «i  win  tojretliir  tliat  I  shall  hare  tbe  fourtli," 
continued  Indra.  •  Agreed,'  said  Viijru.  He  gave  him  a  right  to  the  fourth,  so  Indra 
haa  «a«  share  out  of  four  and  Viva  threo.  So  Iedra  and  Vt/n  TCI  t-c^tlur,  ns  did 
Mitra  and  Varoga,  and  the  two  At'riiu  rotptctivcly."  Sc«  the  story  <jf  nottMr 
similar  eettleaeat  hj  a  race  in  the  Ait.  Br.  iv.  7  f. 

10 


148 


vayc,  hymns  addrksskd  to  nm. 


gusts  (?)  of  the  air  rush  after  him,  and  congregate  in  him  as  wom<m  in  an 
assembly.  Sitting  along  with  them  on  the  same  oar,  the  god,  who  is 
king  of  this  universe,  is  borne  along.  3.  Hosting  forward,  by  paths  in 
the  atmosphere,  he  never  rests  on  any  day.  Friend  of  the  waters, 
first-born,  holy,  in  what  place  was  he  born  ?  whence  has  he  sprung  ? 
4.  Soul  of  tliu  gods,  source  of  tho  universe,  this  deity  mores  as  ha 
lists."*  His  sounds  have  been  hoard,  but  bis  form  is  not  (seen) :  this 
Vnta  let  us  worship  with  on  oblation." 

x.  186,  1.  Fatah  a  ritu  bktthajam  iamblm  maytbhu  no  kriir  |  2.  Prm 
nah  ayifiahi  Utrithtt  \  «U  Y&U  fiUk  '*  mk  *U  Mr JM  uta  rah  takhd  \ 
M  HOJiv6t«V4  kfidki  |  3,  Yad  aio  Vat*  U  gfilu  umritwya  nidhir  hitah  | 
Uto  ru>  dtfo  j'nan  | 

"  I.  Let  Vata,  the  wind,  waft  to  us  healing,*"  salutary,  and  auspi- 
cious, to  our  heart :  may  he  prolong  our  lives.  8.  And,  Vata,  thou  art 
our  father,  our  brother,  and  our  friend :  cause  us  to  live.  3.  From  the 
treasure  of  immortality,  which  is  deposited  yonder  in  thy  house,  o 
Vata,  give  us  to  live." 

Here  the  same  property  is  ascribed  to  Yata  which  is  elsewhere 
ascribed  to  Rudru,  that  of  bringing  healing. 


***  Compare  St.  John's  Ooqwl,  iii.  8  I  Tie  wind  blew  eta  where  it  lirtetfj,-'  rtc 
**♦  Compare  i.  89,  «. 


147 


SECTION  IX. 


THE   MARUT3. 


(1)  Thair  parentaya,  tpithtta,  tharocttrittici,  and  action. 

The  Maruts,  or  Rudraa,  the  gods  of  the  tempest,"0  who  form  a  large 
troop  of  thrioe  sixty  (viii.  85,  8  :  trih  afuuhfis  tvA  Mnrtdo  wytfld 
*<!*),  or  of  only  Iwenty-Mjvcu  (i.  133,  6  :  tritaptaih  iura  taical>hik),m 
are  the  sons  of  Rudra  and  Friini*w  {Rudnuy*  marydk  |  Rudratym 
amimtah  |  Rudnuya  ruisun  |  Rudnuya  pulrdh  \  Han  pilre  maruU'm 
•nby«U  nxhah  |  pilar  tnarutdm .  .  .  Rudra  |  Priinim  wthanla  mdtaram  | 
ad  As  pitaram  iiAmiwin  Rudram  twhanta  |  ywed  pilA  arapdh  Rudrah 
tihi'in*  md«ghu  Priitiih  audind  marudbhyah  \  Pfitiiimdiarah  |  aHta 
Priknir  makate  ramAya  ttv*4«wt  aydf'm  JfaruiAA  anikam  j  QomdtaraM  | 
Gaur  dhayati  Marutd*  irataayvr  mild  mayhon&m  [),**  or  the  speckled 
cow(L  64,  2;    L  85,  I  £.;    i.  114,  6;    i.  168,  9;    ii.  33,  1  ;  iL  34,  2; 

■*»  Prof.  Benfar,  in  s  not*  to  R.V.  i.  ft.  4,  says  that  the  Maruu  (their  iinmc  bring 
■crieed  fron  mar,  •  to  dis,*)  are  peTsonlBearions  of  the  eouk  of  the  deputed. 

™  Sea-  also  A.V.  xiii.  I,  3,  where  ths  tame  smaller  number  U  giren  :  IritAuplaM 
m0rmt*Jk  mraJutammtUik.  Sayaaa  interpret*  th«  words  of  K.V.  -riii.  28,  5,  mptt»aSt 
mpta  riVAfye*.  |  ■  The  seven  lure  seren  spears,"  by  owing  tint  it  refers  to  an 
■nriant  ilorv  of  Indra  envering  thr  rmliryn  gf  liiiti  inlo  scren  parti,  from  which 
■prang  Um  Marut*  according  to  the  Vedic  kit :  ••  The  Maruu  are  dirided  into  seven 
troops."  The  sams  story  u  told  st  greater  length  by  Sfiysna  on  R.V.  i.  1 U,  6, 
•  here,  however,  it  is  said  to  be  Dili,  mother  of  the  Amiris,  whose  embryo  Kdre 
several  Unl  Into  seven  portions,  each  of  which  he  thai  »ubdi«  idid  into  saren.  See 
the  1th  vol.  of  this  work.  p.  256. 

**•  This  word  is  regarded  as  a  personification  of  the  speckled  elouds  in  Roth's 
Illustrations  of  Nirakta,  x.  39,  p.  145.     In  hi>  T.niron  the  same  seholsr  ssys  that 
like  other  deaigaations  of  the  cow,  the  word  u  eruplored  in  ratios*  ijermtn*  ind 
■1  refrmaook,  to  dsnute  the  earth,  Um  clouds  milk,  the  vjricguled  or  starry 
bea'en.     On  'y»s>s   rcfrra  (»•  an  alternative  ciplansitiow)  to  a  st«ry  of 

Rudra.  as  a  bull,  begetting  the  M«iul»  01  1'ii'ui.  las  Earth    iu  the  fuiin  of  a  ojw. 

«s»  The  Tsitlirtva  SsnhiU,  ii.  2,  11,  4,  says:  i>w».»ni  cot  pay*—  wmnHtjdtiJ,  \ 
"The  JUaruts  were  born  from  Pruni's  milk." 


148 


TIIF.    MARCTS.   THEIR    PARENT 


V.  42,  15  ;  v.  52,  16  ;  v.  60,  5  ;  t.  59,  6  ;  Ti.  50,  4  ;  tj.  66,  3  ; 
56,  1;  viii.  7,  3,  17;  viii.  20,  17;  viii.  83,  1).  They  are,  howew, 
laid  to  be  like  sons  to  Indru  («<i  lUnubhir  na  Rudrebkih,  i.  100,  5} ;  and 
they  are  also  called  nindhu-mutarah,  children  of  the  ocean,  whether  wo 
suppose  this  to  be  the  aerial  or  terrestrial  sea  (x.  78,  6),  and  son* 
EEemn,  diiat-putr&sak  (x.  77,  2),  and  Lico  maryuh,  iii.  53,  13 ;  v.  39, 6. 
See  Midler's  Trans,  of  R.V.  p.  93.  In  v.  66,  8,  mention  is  made  of 
the  chariot  of  the  Mamits  "  in  which  RodasI  stood  bringing  enjoyments, 
in  company  with  the  Miiruta"  (d  yasmin  taethau  swrajuJiM  bihhratt 
tachd  maruttu  Itodtul).  On  this  Sayurja  remarks  that  Rodaal  is  the  wife 
of  Rudra  and  mother  of  the  Marats;  or  thut  Kmir.i  in  the  Wind  (Viyu), 
and  his  wife  the  intermediate  or  aerial  goddess,  (liodatl  Rudratya  patnl 
marutum  viutu  j  yadvi  Ritdrv  Vflyuh  \  (nt-yatni  mudhyamtkd  Jed).  They 
are  frequently  associated  w  ith  I  ud  re,  at  we  have  alreudy  seen; — (compare 
the  expressions  which  describe  thorn  as  his  allies  mid  friends,  and  as 
increasing  his  strength  and  prowess,  at  the  same  time  that  they 
celchrnt*-  his  greatness  :  Marutratitam  lndtam  \  Indra-jytihfhah  marud- 
gamih  |  nakhibhih  nvibhir  eveih  |  yt  U  ituhnam  y«  tati$Kim  atardhann 
arthantah  Indra  maruttu  tt  ojah  \  piha  Rudrebhih  tayaaah  |  yt  tr&  unu 
ahun  Vritlran  adadhut  tubhyam  ojah  |  arehunti  tvu  Xfxrulah  p&tadakki* 
tram  mhilm  rhhir  fndrtUi  dhirah  \  TiudnUab  Indnuantah  |  ayam  fndrt 
Marut-ukhA  \  llphad  IndrAya  gQyata  menilah  |  i.  23,  7.  8 ;  i.  100, 
1  ff. ;  i.  101,  1,  ft ;  iii.  32,  2,  4;  iii.  85,  9;  iii.  47,  1,  ff. ;  iii.  61,  7 
ff.;  v.  29,  1,  2,  6;  v.  57,  1  j  rii.  32,  10;  rii.  42,  5;  viii.  30,  1  ff; 
viii.  52,  10  ;  viii.  65,  I  ff ;  viii.  78,  1  ff. ;  viii.  85,  7  ff. ;  x.  73,  1 ; 
x.  99,  5;  x.  113,  3)  ; — but  they  are  also  celebrated  separately  in 
numerous  by mns  (as  i.  37;  i.  38;  L  39;  i.  64;  i.  85;  i.  86;  i.87;  i.  88; 
i.  166,  which,  with  others,  arc  rendered  into  Knglr-h  and  illustrated 
in  the  1st  vol.  of  Professor  Muller's  Translation  of  the  R.V.;  see  also 
i.  167;  i.  168;  v.  52;  v.  53;  t.  54;  r.  65;  T.  56;  vii.  56;  vii.  57 
vii.  58,  etc.)  They  are  favourite  deities  of  some  of  the  rishis,  and  are 
often  praised  in  highly  poetical  strains.  They  are  like  blazing  fires, 
free  from  soil,  of  golden  or  tawny  hue,  and  of  sunlike  brilliancy  (y* 
agnayo  nn  ioiuchann  idhunfih  \  nrmnrah  \  hiramyAtah  \  tHryatvaehah  | 
arunapiavah  \  vi.  66,  2;  vii.  59,  11  ;  viii.  7,  7).  They  are  also  com- 
pared to  swans  with  black  plumage  (haihsuio nlla-prUh(hilh,  vii.  59,  7); 
and  are  sometimes  said  to  be  playful  as  children  or  calves  (Jcrllmti 


EFITI1ETS,   CIIAItACTEiUSTICS,    AXD   ACTION. 


149 


krllvk  |  itinl&k  na  kf}(ayak  $umat«rak  [  vaMio  nit  prakrtfinah  \  i 
'J  ;  vii.  56,  16 ;  x.  78,  6).  They  are  thus  apostrophized  in  r.  51,  1 1 : 
aOiwhu  rah  riihfayak  pattu  kkSdayo  rtikthasiu  rttkmah  llaruto  rath* 
iuhkih  |  agnibhnijiUo  tidyuto  gabkattyoh  iiprilh  iir$ka*hu  vilatah  hirm- 
nyai/Jk  \  "  Spears  rest  upon  your  shoulders,  ye  MuruU ;  ye  haTe  ankk'U 
on  yoar  foot,  golden  ornaments  on  your  breasts,  lustre  in  your  caw, 
fiery  lightning*  in  your  hands,  and  golden  helmets04  placed  upon  your 

°*  In  ii.  84,  3,  tli*  «pith»t  of  /itrtnyn-iipi'ih  it   npplinl  to  the»e  deities.     Thia 
SJj«o»  explain*  by  mwui"  •f''b>  '*  with  golden  belmete."    That  one 

aen*e  ol  iiprA  (feminine)  is  "a  head-dress,  or  a  helmet,"  U  aotilcd  by  the  Terse  in  (lie 
utt.  t.  64,  11,  where  the  word*  arc  /iprah  {ink***  ritntuh  AiAiwynyi/i,  ■ 
helmets  an  stretched  or  (placed)  upon  your  heads ; "  and  also  by  viii.  7.  36,  where  it 
it  said,  iipra)  Jirduto  AirdgyAytA  .  .  .  rymyitta  iriyr,  "  they  displayed  for  ornament 
golden  helmet*  on  their  head*-"  In  the  Ant  of  those  passages,  S  "•)»  n  »  interpret*  iiprak 
as  meaning  a  '  turban,'  in  the  Meond  • '  helmet'  It  thu*  appear*  that  iiprah,  in  these 
si  Irut,  mu>(  mean  something  external  to  the  head,  and  not  a  feature  of  the 
face  ai  iiprtt  is  often  interpreted,  when  applied  to  Indra.  Thus  tiuipra  ia  explained 
by  Siynrja  on  i.  9,  3,  ax  meaning  iahk**a-hm*a  MJuina-miiika  ro,  "  biting  haiidsonio 
ft**,  or  ■  handsome  note  ; "  since  Ynaka,  he  says,  makes  iiprm  to  mean  one  or  other 
of  these  two  parte  of  the  faec  (Nirukta,  vi.  17).  Tbo  same  explanation  it  gi»cn  by 
Sayaoa  on  i.  20, 3 ;  i.  &1,  \  ;  and  i.  101,  10.  On  iii.  30,  3,  however,  the  same  com- 
■rtvUtor  says:  t'tpra-hbdma  tinutrdyim  atlndkiyati  \  JoMtin«*ir«*(niQ(jittak\ 
fade*  /ttKano-hummun  |  "  By  th*  word  Upra,  a  liolrnot  is  signified.  Siuipra 
therefore  means  '  baring'  s  handsome  helmet,'  or  it  means  'having  handsome  jawa.* 

ii,  S ,  iii-  :ifi,  10  ;  riii.  93,  ,,  34  ,  »iii,  3:t,  7 ;  viii.  65,  4 ;  he  return. 
latter  interpretation.  On  riii.  17.4;  viii,  81.4;  viii.  82,  13  j  bo  again  gives  the 
alternative  ciplsnstion  sa  on  iii.  SO,  3.  Professor  A afrecht  hat  favoured  me  with  a 
note  on  the  subject  of  the  word  iiprm  and  ita  derivative*,  of  which  tbn  following  are 
tbe  most  important  part*  i  S"ipr*  in  the  dual  meant  jawi  (i.  101,  10  ;  iii.  13,  1  ;  v. 
36,3;  viii.  M,  10;  x.  09,  'J  ■.  x.  105,  o).  giprammt  msaat  "having  large  j»w«" 
3).  8"ipr*H  meant  the  tome,  and  ia  u»cd  only  of  India  (i.  39,  8;  i.  81,  1; 
iii.  36,  10,  *4c.  etc.).  S'iprig',  as  Professor  Aufrtebt  considers,  moaos  "  a  draught 
(imbibed  by  the  jawa) ;  "  and  he  trauelatea  L  30,  11,  tliua  :  "  ^Partake,  our  friend, 
wieMer  of  the  thunderbolt,  of  th*  draughU  of  as  thy  friends  the  turns-drinkers, 
thou  who  art  fund  of  Soma."  tfipr^ivat  (a.  105,  6)  will  thus  be  "he  who 
poantais  the  draught."  Sipivh  in  v.  14,  11,  and  viii.  7,  36,  are  "Titers,*  the 
two  parte  of  which  are  compared  to  two  jaws.  Ay«k-4ipta,  used  of  the  KiMm* 
(ir.  37,  4)  will  consequently  mesa  "having  iron  visors."  The  word  e-ccur*  in 
other  com  pound*,  to  which  I  need  not  here  refer.  I  am  not  rolBcicntly  acquainted 
with  the  armour  of  India  to  know  whether  anything  like  a  riser  was  or  ia  used 
by  warriors  in  that  country.  It  is,  however,  customary  for  the  Hindus  in  parti- 
ealar  dreasastanes*  (as  for  protection  from  the  heat,  and  oUo  from  th*  cold,  and  fee 
p«rpo*es  of  disguise)  to  wear  their  turbans  not  only  wrapped  horijonUlly  round  their 
beads,  but  also  to  tie  another  cloth  perpendicularly  under  their  chins  and  over  too 
top*  of  their  hand*,  thu  enclosing  the  tides  of  their  face*.  This  is  called  in  the  ver- 
nacular Hindi  tfaofAu  tonJkmi.  Tbe  word  sttsfAo  it  explained  in  Shakespeare 
liinduataai  Dictionary,  *.r.  as  ••  a  haudkerchiaf  tied  Of  rr  the  turband  and  over  tbo 


150 


TUE  MARTJT9,    THEIH    PARENTAGE. 


head*."  Compare  i.  64,  4;  i.  166,  10;  if.  84,  2,  8  {dy&f  nm  rtribhii 
chitayanta  khudinak  |  "  adorned  with  rings,  they  were  conspicuous  like 
tin-  sky  with  its  stars  ") ;  v.  23, 4  (whore,  in  addition  to  their  ornament* 
and  their  weapons,  they  ore  said  to  have  been  decorated  with  garland* : 
yt  aujuhu  ye  ulilshtt  nobhdnavah,  irakthu  ru&mcthx  kkuditku  |  ir&y&k 
rathetku  dfuiitcettu) ;  t.  55,  1 ;  v.  57,  5,  6  (every  glory  ia  manifested  in 
their  bodies :  viitA  rah  irlr  adki  tanitik* pipift) ;  t.  58,  2  {khadfluutam); 
Tii.  56,  11,  13  (anuahu  to  Ifarvtah  khudayah  "•  |  "  on  yonr  shoulders, 
Maruta,  ore  rings");  viii.  7,  25 ;  viii.  20,  4  {iubhrakhadayoh),  11,  22; 
x.  78,  2.  They  are  armed  with  golden  weapons,  and  with  lightnings, 
dart  thunderbolts,  gleam  like  flame*  of  fire,  and  arc  borne  along  with 
the  fury  of  boisterous  winds  {vtdyunmahato  naro  aimadidynto  vdlalcieho 
Martttah,  v.  54,  .1) ;  viii.  7,  4,  17,  32  [eajraAtutaih  .  .  .  marudbhib  .  ,  . 
MranyatH$\lhih) ;  x.  78,  2,  3  (e&lau  na  y*  dhunayo  ftyalHttro  agninSim 
na  jihe&h  cirokinah) ;  they  h  p  1 1  f  Vi-iitrn  into  fragments  (viii.  7,  23: 
ri  rrittram  parraio  yayuk) ;  they  are  clothed  with  rain  {rarth/imr- 
nijah,  t.  57,  4) ;  they  create  darkuoss  oven  during  the  day,  with  tho 
rain-clouds  distribute  showers  ail  over  the  world,  water  tho  earth, 
and  avert  heat  i.  38',  9  (rfi'rd  (hit  tamnk  kjinvanti  parjtmyena  vdscA- 
hma  |  yat  prithit\fn  ryundanti)  ;  v.  64,  1  {jmdhCya  marutuya  .  .  . 
ghiirv\a-*tubht) ;  T.  65,  6  (ud  Irayatha  Mnrutah  tamttdrato  yftyaih  rruh- 
fiih  tarshayttlha  purUhipah)  ;  viii.  7,  4  (rapanti  monito  mi  ham  |  16. 
ye  draptah  ka  rodaiX  dhamanli  anu  rri*k{Mib).tm  They  open  up  a 
path  for  the  sun,  viii.  7,  8  {trijanti  ritimim  ojaail  pantkam  eQry&y* 
yutave).  They  cause  tho  mountains,  the  earth,  and  both  the  worlds  to 
,  i.  39,  5  {pro  copayanti  parcatfln)  ;  i.  87,  3  (rejatt  bhiimiA); 
t.  54,  1,  3  {parvatachyutah) ;  v.  60,  2f.  {re  bhiyH  pritkul  chid  rcjaU 
panatai  chit  j  parvatiti  chin  vtahi  rriddho  bibhUya  ditni  chit  $anu  rcjute 
tpane  eah) ;  vii.  57,  1  {ye  rejayanti  rodatl  chid  urrl) ;  viii.  7,  4  ;  riii. 
20,  5.  They  rend  trees,  and,  like  wild  elephants,  they  devour  the 
foreata,  i.  39,  5;  i.  84,  7  (vi  vinelumti  tanatpatin  |  mrig&$  ka  hatlinah 


*"  On  th*  vmm  nf  the  word  kkaJi  %ec  Miillor'i  Tram,  of  the  R.V.  p.  103  ud  210. 

a*  Ia  t  hvran  nf  tho  A.V.  it.  27,  vtrae  3,  tb«  ManiU  are  (aid  to  gira  aa  impulae 
to  tic  milk  of  cow*.  th»  Mp  of  pltaU,  ia*  ipaod  of  honm  (pofm  JkmimaA  rmmm 
otkadKinawt  javom  tmlom  kstaija  f*  inrethn)  ;  and  in  tho  4th  rem  tb«T  an 
deieribsd  at  raiung  the  vatora  tram  the  m*  to  tho  tkj,  and  as  distharginir  them  from 
th«  tky  on  (ha  otrth   {apak  lummdrid  *»•<■   nJfMamti    din$  pfUhwim  abk*  jm 

*y«jM 


EPITHETS,    CHARACTERISTICS,    AXD    ACTION.  |g| 

i  rand).  They  have  iron  teeth  (aywAiiwiiA/rdii,  i.  88,  5) ;  they 
roar  like  lione  (*imhdk  mm  n*n*kti,  i.  64,  8) ;  ell  creatures  aro  afraid 
of  them,  i.  85,  8  (kkayant*  viie-a  bhueand  mamdbhyah.  Their  weapons 
aro  of  various  deacriptions — spears,  bowa,  quirera,  and  arroira  (trUlm- 
cntsk  fithfimaulak  (  t»kumanlo  ni*ha>uji*ah),  i.  87,  2  ;  v.  57,  2.  Their 
coarsen  an  swift  as  thought  (vtttnnjurak,  i.  85,  4).  They  ride,  with 
whips  in  their  hands  {ktiilh  hatteshv,  i.  37,  3;  i.  168,  4),  in  golden 
can  (kiranuarathdh,  t.  57,  1),  with  golden  wheels  (Jkiranytbkik 
pavibhih  |  kirant/o-cfairdn,  i.  64,  II;  i.  88,  5),  drawn  by  ruddy  and 
tawny  horses  (with  which  tho  chariots  are  said  to  bo  winged),  and 
flashing  forth  lightnings,  or  formed  of  lightning,  i.  88,  1,  2  (d  rwf- 
ytmmadbhih  raihebhir  ruhfimaJbhir  airmpnrnaik  \  arunebhih  piiangair 
ahaiK)  |  iii.  54,  18  {ndyudralfak  Manilah  rithfimantah)  ;  t.  57,  4 
(piinnjdkJih  arnnSivSk).  Tbo  animals  by  which  these  chariot*  are 
described  as  being  drawn  are  designated  in  some  places  by  the  epithet 
pri'MM  (i.  3",  I|  i.  39,  6;  i.  85,  5;  viii.  7,  28),  which  Professor 
"Wilson — following  Sayana  on  Rig-veda,  i.  87,  2"* — renden  by 
••spotted  deer."  But  in  i.  38,  12,  the  hone*  {ahAsak)  of  tho  Mnruta 
are  spoken  of,  as  is  also  tho  case  in  viii.  7,  27,  where  they  (the  horsea) 
axe  called  kiramya-ptiatbfiik,  "  golden-fiiotvd ; "  though  in  tho  next 
Terse  (28)  Uie  pj-iikat\h  aro  agnin  Bpoken  of,  as  well  as  a  prttkfik 
rokitak,  which  we  find  also  in  i.  89,  6,  and  which  Siiynna  understands 
to  denote  either  a  swift  buck,  or  a  buck  yoked  aa  a  leader  to  the  does. 
In  I.  87,  4,  the  troop  of  Maruto  itself  roccircs  the  epithet  prith&d-aka, 
"haring  spotted  horses."  This  is,  indeed,  explained  by  Sayana  in  the 
sense  of  "  having  does  marked  with  white  spots  instead  of  horeos;"*" 
but  in  hia  notes  on  v.  54,  2,  10,  and  t.  55,  1,  where  the  Maruts' 
horses  fere  again  spoken  of  (na  re  ak4k  irathat/anta  {  lymtU  ait-aik 
$uyam*bkir  Mulkik),  he  does  not  repeat  this  explanation.  In  v.  55,  6, 
where  the  Maruts  are  described  as  baring  yoked  prUhadh  (feminine)  us 
hones  {aitCn,  masculine,)  to  their  chariot*,  Sayana  says  we  may  either 
understand  •'spotted  mares,"  or  Huppose  the  word  "horse**  to  stand  for 


**  PrUUtya  rtW«-y*WA  mfifV  karmd.rHkam4.AM.tah  |  ••pr^kalpaMarutiim" 
Hi  Iftfkoadoa  ukimttit. 

"•  Baaftr,  ia  au  tranalata'oa  <4  (hit  rem  (Ori«nl  and  Occkfoot,  ii.  WO)  rrUiM 
thesenat  of  aaulapca.  In  rii.  M.  1,  tie  MaruU  arc  (tried  rrw'cwA,  "baring  good 
bow*."  which  Sirana  explains  rfeeAan*^**.!*, "  baring  good  cam- M  " 


isa 


THE  MARUTS,    THEIR  CHARACTERISTICS 


doc  {prithalth.  .  .  priahad-varadk  radatAk  \  iSranyl  cS  afra  aivn-iabd*- 
caeJiy&).  In  his  note  on prishatlhiih  in  ii.  34,  3,  he  any*,  they  may  be 
doe*  marked  with  white  spots,  or  marct;  and  he  interpret* 
pjuhaOh  in  v.  57,  3,  by  oivdk,  mares.  Professor  Aufrecht,  who  ha* 
favoured  me  with  a  note  on  the  subject  of  the  word  prinhat'ih,  is  of 
opinion  that,  looking  to  all  the  passages  where  it  occurs  in  connection 
with  the  Maruts,  it  must  mean  mares.1"  Perhaps  it  is  best  to  hold 
I'n.fcMor  M  tiller  (Trans,  of  R.V.  i.  p.  69)  UuJ  tim  Vcdic  poeto 
admitted  both  ideas,  as  we  find  "that  they  speak  in  the  same  hymns, 
Ukd  even  in  the  ainue  verse,  of  the  fallow  deer,  and  also  of  the  horses 
of  thfl  Murubs." 

In  tho  following  verses,  viii   83,  9  ff.,  high  cosmical  functions  aro 
aaeribed  to  tho  Maruts  :  <1  yt  wiwi  /.<■■  /xiprathan  rovAosd  dieah  \ 

Jlamtah  iQnwpilvye  |  10.  Tyan  nu  piladakakatv  din  to  Mantis  A  aw* 
atya  tomatya  pMnyt  j  11.  Tyan  nu  ye  ri  ndctl  ta*tabkur  Mantle  Amw  | 
aiya  tomaiya  pltay*  |  12.  T>iwi  ntt  Miirulan  ganaih  yiriihfhfiit  Cfuha- 
mm  fiuvi  \  atyn  tematya  pltaye  |  9  and  10.  "1  invite  to  drink  this 
■mi  the  Maruta  who  stretched  out  all  the  terrestrial  regions,  and  tho 
luminaries  of  the  sky ;  I  call  from  the  heaven  those  Manila  of  pare 


•"  I'rufnetur  Aafrecht  hue  pointed  out  »  number  of  passages  regarding  the  Senas  of 
the  worth  /truW-iuYa  anil  pfithut,  as  Ruyamukut*  on  Amurs.  tbe  Vfij.  Saeh.  xnr. 
bsunt,  V.  6,  1,  10,  and  r.  6,  S,  0.  ltd  bo*  also  indicated 
another  terse  of  the  Rig-rcdii  (r.  68,  6),  where  ppihalihMi  in  tbe  fenuninc  u  joisstd 
with  atVui)  in  tho  masculine  (where  Professor  Mullrr,  Trsnt.  of  R.V.  L  6*,  would 
translate,  "when  you  comr  with  the  deer,  tbe  hows,  and  thcthurinla  ") ;  and  remarks 
that  viii.  6s.  10,  11.  could  not  mean  that  the  rishi  received  a  thoannd  an  las  opes. 
(The  words  are  thesi> :  dhlTi  m*  ppii/itinim  rrijii  Jkiranyariuiim  |  M  tOrak  mapktti 
rii/uil  |    11.  Sahatrt  pfUhatinam  aJhi  ithan<iran\  hfihat  pj-ithu  |  in  I  ram  Airattymm 

od'Jr  |  "  0  gods,  ma;  tho  bountiful  king,  tb*  gi»«r  to  ate  of  tho  guld-dc^ked 
pri*h*tU,  ncTrr  paint  I  It.  I  rewired  gold,  brilliant,  hcary.  broad,  and  sbiaiog, 
orer  and  ahore  a  thousand  pr< '•hath  (probably  speckled  cow»)  "  Suyag*  nissi  souls 
Indra  a»  the  lKiuntiful  piilnm  hot,  itnd  makes  tho  worahiprH-r  pray  ti>  th«  gods  that 
lndra  may  not  perish,  an  erroneotu  ll  don,  surely.    Professor  Roth  appears, 

from  a  ramark  under  the  word  owl  (vol.  i.  p.  1001  of  hii  Diet.)  to  h*»e  »t  m. 
regarded priihatytM  at  a  kind  of  deer.  In  hi*  explanation  of  tbi<  Utter  word  itself, 
however  (in  s  later  port  of  his  Lexicon,  width  perhaps  had  not  roachad  int  when  this 
nut*  win  lint  written),  hr  «ajK  that  it  is  a  designation  of  the  team  of  the  Manila; 
and  according  to  the  ordinary  assumption  of  the  commentators,  which,  bowerer, 
Is  not  established  either  by  the  Xirukla,  or  by  any  of  the  Bruhir.amu  known  to 
us,  dcnoU*  spotted  sntelopea.  There  ia  nolhinjr,  howvMri  he  goes  on  to  say,  to 
prtTeut  our  underiUadiag  the  word  (with  Mnhidhara  on  Vnj.  Sanb.  iu  16)  to  msa 
•potted  mores,  as  mention  is  froquetilly  cnuugh  mudc  of  the  hursrsnf  the  Maruts, 


AND    RELATIONS  TO    IN'DRA. 


153 


power.  11.  I  call  to  drink  this  soma. theme  Maruts  who  held  apart  the 
two  worlds.  12.  I  call  to  drink  this  soma  that  rigorous  host  of  Msruti 
wUat)  dwells  in  the  mountains." 

Tho  Maruts  or  Rudnis  (like  their  father  Rudra ;  see  the  4th  vol.  of 
this  work,  pp.  253,  2.">9,  2f>l,  2fi3  f.,  333  ff.),  ore  in  one  hymn,  viii. 
20,  23,  25,  Bupplicuted  to  bring;  healing  remedies,  which  arc  described 
■a  abiding  in  tho  Sindhu,  tho  Asiknl,  the  seas,  anil  the  hills  {marut* 
n/lrvttuya  nah  el  bhethajtuya  cakatn  \  yad  Sindhau  yad  Atiknyuut  yat 
Hunuimk*  .  .  .  yat  parratuhu  bhuhajam). 

(2)  Relation*  of  the  MaruU  to  Indra ; — the  rival  claim* 
of  Ut*  too  pat 

Professor  Wilwa  is  of  opinion  (ttig-voda  ii.,  Indroducliou  p.  vii.  and 
notes  pp.  H6  and  160),  that  in  a  few  hymns  some  traces  arc  per- 
ceptible of  «  dispute  between  tho  votaries  ef  the  Maruts  and  those  of 
Indra  in  regard  to  their  respective  claims  to  worship.  Thus  in  hymns 
1S5  and  170  of  the  first  book  of  the  Rig-veda  we  find  dialogues,  in  the 
first  onto  between  Indra  and  the  Maruts,  and  in  the  second  between 
Indra  and  Agastya,  in  which  tho  rival  pretensions  of  these  deities 
appear.  Indra  asks,  L  1 65,  6 :  kxa  njil  to  Marutah  ivodktl  <Mi 
yon  mAm  ekam  mmadhatta  Ahihatyt  \  aham  hi  ucrtu  taritha*  tueuh- 
mam  jrHratyn  iatror  anamaili  tadha-uimh  |  7.  flhuri  rhaiartka  ya- 
jyebhir  turn*  mmilwbkir  crukaiha  pani!niyebhik  |  Ihiirini  hi  irinacOmtS 
iatukfka  Indra  IroUA  Marido  yad  raid  ma  |  8.  J'ulhim  VrUtram 
mania  k  indriyena  trena  b/uimena  |  "  Where  was  your  inherent  power, 
i  ub*,  when  yc  involved  me  alone1*0  in  the  conflict  with  Ahi?  It 
was  I  who,  Scree,  strong,  and  energetic,  overturned  my  enemies  with  my 
■hafts."  The  MaruU  rejoin  :  "7.  Vigorous  god,  thou  host  done  great 
things  with  us  for  thy  helpers,  ttuongfl  our  equal  valour ;  for,  0  strong 
ludrs,  we  MaruU  by  our  power  can  perform  many  great  exploits  when 
V*  deaire."  Indra  rep!  a*  :  "  8.  By  ray  own  prowess,  Maruts,  I  slew 
Vnttra,  mighty  in  my  wrath,"  etc 

Of  hymn  i.   170,  the  Nirukta  says,  L  5,  that   "Agastya,   having 

pnjoired  an  oblation  for  Indra,  desired  to  give  tho  Maruts  also  a  share 

in  it.     On  which  Indra  came  and  complained."     {Agattyak  Indrdya 

hour   nirupya   Marudhkyah   aampradilmm   ekak&ra   |  ia   Mr  a  A   ttya 

m*  S<*  «W«,  p.  W,  mu. 


154 


RF.LATI0N8  OP  THE  MARUTS  TO  IXDF.A. 


pmriinayunrhnJin).  The  Maruts  roply,  i.  170,  2 :  liik  nah 
jighamsari  bhrHaro  warutat  tava  \  Ubhih  kalpatea  UdhtyA  ss4  mA 
tamaran*  radii  ib  |  3.  Kim  no  b/irStur  Ayiutya  talk)  mm  alt  wumyem  | 
tidma  A»  U  yatha  mono  amabhyam  in  m  dthati  I  "  Why  doet  thou  seek 
to  kill  us,  Indra  ?  The  Maruts  are  thy  brother*.  Act  amicably  to- 
wards them.  Do  not  kill  us  in  tho  fray."  *"  Indra  then  aaya  to 
Agastya,  v.  3.  "  Wby  dost  thou,  brother  Agastya,  being  our  friend, 
disregard  us  ?  For  we  know  bow  thy  mind  is.  Thou  wilt  not  giro 
us  anything." — So©  Roth'a  Elucidations  of  Nirukta,  p.  6.)  In  i.  171, 
4,  also,  the  rishi,  after  imploring  the  favour  of  the  Maruts,  says  to 
them  apologetically:  aimud  ahum  tavithud  libamunaA  TnirHd  bhiya 
3firuto  rtjam&mh  \  ywthmabhyam  httryil  nih'tdni  Atari  t&ni  Art  chttjitna 
irifiUita  nah  |  "I  fled,  trembling  through  fear  of  the  mighty  Indra. 
Oblations  were  prepared  for  you;  wo  put  them  away;  be  merciful  to 
us."  (Compare  E.V.  iv.  18, 11  ;  viii.  7,  81,  and  viii.  85, 7,  quoted  abore. 
pp.  92  ff.,  note.)  See  Professor  Mullcr's  translation  of  i.  165,  and  tho 
full  illustrations  ho  gives  of  its  signification  in  bis  notes,  pp.  170  ff., 
179,  184,  186,  187,  189.  This  hymn  ia  referred  to  in  the  following 
abort  story  from  the  Taitt.  Brahmana,  ii.  7,  11,  1 :  Aoattyc  manibhyah 
vluhnoh  prattkihat  \  tun  Tndrah  ddatla  |  t«  mail  cajram  udyatym  abhyi- 
yanta  |  ttin  Agtutyai  ehaiea  Indrai  eha  iayShibblyena  afamnyaVlm  \  tSn 
fiint/in  upiihrai/atn  yat  tayStubhiyam  Lhacati  iAntyai  \  taimQd  tU  aim- 
dr&mGruli'ih  uithAgah  savanlyAh  bhiwanti  |  trayak  prathamt  'hann  &U- 
bhyantt  \  eeaA  dvltlye  |  tcafn  tritlye  |  pancha  ultame  'hann  AfabhynnU  \ 
"Agastya  was  immolating  bulls  to  the  Maruts.  These  bulls  Indra 
carried  off.  Tho  Maruts  ran  at  him  brandishing  a  thunderbolt.  Agastya 
and  Indra  pacified  them  with  the  kaydiubhlya  "  (referring  to  R.Y.  i. 
165,  1,  of  which  the  first  verso  begins  with  the  words  kayA  tw&Ad). 
"  Indra  invited  them  to  the  ceremony  when  pacified,  for  the  kay&in- 
bhiya  is  used  for  pneification.  Hence  these  bulls  are  to  be  offered  both 
to  Indra  and  the  Maruts.  Three  arc  sacrificed  on  tho  first  day,  m 
many  on  tho  second  and  third ;  on  the  last  day  five  are  immolated." 

In  the  following  passages  (some  of  which  have  been  already  quoted) 
tho  Maruts  are  said  to  worship  Indra,  viz.,  iii.  32,  3 ;  v.  211,  1,  2,  6  j 
riii.  3,  7  j  viii.  78,  1,  3. 


**'  S<«  Until  on  tho  Miise  of  I  lib  text,  i.c  l;!p. 


155 


SECTION  X. 


sCteya. 


(1)  Th4  tuo  mn-gcd*  »+]>araU!y  ttUbmted  in  (J*  fiymu*. 

The  great  powers  presiding  over  day  and  night  are,  as  we  have  seen 
above,  suppose*!  by  the  Indian  commentators  to  bo  personified  in  If  itra 
and  Vanino.  But  these  deities,  and  especially  Varuqa,  as  doscribod  in 
the  Veda,  are  far  more  than  the  mere  representatives  of  day  and  ni-ht. 
They  are  also  recognised  as  moral  governors,  as  well  as  superintendents 
of  physical  phenomena.  There  are  two  other  gods  (also,  as  has  been 
already  noticed,  p.  64,  rockonod  in  a  few  passages  as  belonging  to  the 
A.lityns),  who  are  exact  personifications  of  the  sun,10  viz.,  Sfirya  and 
8avitri.,u  It  is  under  these  two  different  appellations  that  the  sun  is 
chiefly  '.clebrated  in  the  Rig-veda;  and  although  it  may  be  difficult  t-i 
perceive  why  the  one  word  should   be  used  in  any  particular  case 

541  In  the  numeric  hymn  to  Hollo*,  rerus  8  IT..  th«  ran  is  thus  described : 
ii  ptuyf  tmrroiax  «al  Affuraroiiii  tio'iau 
7mr<in   /ji/J«£adif  ■     arjiaoSrev  8*  871  JVpicrrai  Jtrjoit 
Xfvafnt  in  x6pv9of  Kanwpal  *'  ±xtj"»«*  4r    ainui 
AiyAifir  irr'.Xjlavat,    *apk  Kfori^uv  t«  waptia} 
Kafiwpml  a»0   Kpuvcs   ^aplty  *flT#^owri  wp6<n^vor 
Tti\mtryis  •     Kax.hr  ti   *«pl    xjwt  A^nrii  (Vrffpt 
ktrtov/rjlt,  wroifi  av/itir-    inrh  J*  ipixtwn  trwai 

t*4f  if  hy*  a-r^ita\\  xf»o4(vyar  Sp/ia  «ai  T»  mmi 
i<n< pior  xiuxriai  Si   ovparoi  'dmoyirti. 
Retarding  the  OrueV  Ideas  of  toe  divinity  of  1I10  sua,  moon,  anil  Mam,  the 
reader  mar  compare  the  peasage*  of  Plato  cited  or  r* fared  to  br  Mr.  Grot*,  Plato, 
in  pp.  3S4,  414.  41S,  448.  462.  497.     One  of  these  psaaaRCt.  from  the  Ijiwi  sfL  p. 

821,  >a  M  follow*  :— 'ft  lymBol.  trra+ivii—Ba   rvr  ii   fret  (.*•',»  'EUi|ni  ««Vt«« 

wrri\M¥  6Wr,  'Hxiav  t«  lfx<*  ml  jyiSjipj  Again  in  the  Epinomia  p.  984,  mention  »• 
1  of  las  visible  dciiiea,  by  which  the  tUra  art  meant  1  *<•»■  lr  ft*;  *•««  4o«tom, 
ur/dermn  aal  viauarrarawi  *•!  'olvrrrw  'ofaVras  varrn,  towi  weafrea*  r»»  rfir  trrpmr 
«>6>ir  At re  fop,  n.T.A. 


IM 


SCBYA'8   PABEXTAGE,    BELATIOX3 


rather  than  the  other,  the  application  of  the  names  may  perhaps 
depend  upon  some  different-  in  tho  aspect  under  which  (ho  sun  is 
conceived,  or  on  some  diversity  in  the  function*  which  ho  u  regarded 
illing.  DiffVrent  seta  of  hymns  are,  at  oil  events,  devoted  to  his 
worship  under  each  of  these  names,  and  tho  opithoU  which  ore  applied 
to  him  in  each  of  these  characters  arc  for  the  most  part  separate  In 
some  few  places,  both  those  two  names,  and  occasionally  some  others, 
appear  to  he  applied  to  the  solar  deity  indiscriminately,  but  in  moat 
cases  the  distinction  between  them  is  nominally,  at  least,  preserved. 

The  principal  hymns,  or  portions  of  hymns,  in  praise  of,  or  referring 
to,  Snryaaro  tho  following :— i.  50,  1-13;  i.  115,  1-6;  iv.  13,  1-3  ; 
v.  40,  5,  6,  8,  9 ;  v.  45,  9,  10  |  v.  59,  5  ;  rii.  60,  1-4 ;  x.  37,  1  IT. ; 
x-  170.     Ho  is  treated  of  iu  Xirukto,  xii.  H-16. 


(2)  S^rya'tpartntaye,  relation*  to  the  othtr  godt,  epithet*,  and  fan 

In  x.  37,  1,  Surra  is  styled  the  son  of  Dyans  (Dicet  puftraya 
Sarydya  iaihwta).  In  x.  88,  1 1,  he  is  called  tho  son  of  Aditi  (Suryam 
Adileyam),  and  by  tlio  sauio  title  in  viii,  90,  11  {Dan  makdn  sui  Sirya 
bat  Aditya  tiwtuht  a*i)  ;  but  in  other  places  he  appears  to  bo  dis- 
tinguished from,  the  Aditya*,  as  in  viii.  35,  13  IT.  {sajotkaiii  Vthaai 
Sirytna  eha  Adityair  ydlam  Mein&).  Ushas  (tho  Duwu)  is  in  one  place 
said  to  bo  bis  wife  (Saryatya  yvthtl,  vii.  75,  5),  while  in  another 
passage,  vii.  78,  3,  tho  Dawns  arc,  by  a  natural  figure,  said  to  produce 
him  {njljanan  iHryaih  yajnam  aynim)  along  with  Sacrifice  and  Agni, 
and  in  a  third  text,  to  reveal  all  the  three  (praehikilat  tdryaih  yajnam 
aynim).  Surya  is  described  as  moving  on  a  car,  which  is  sometimes  said 
to  be  drawn  by  one  and  sometimes  by  several,  or  by  seven,  fleet  and 
ruddy  horses  or  mores*"  (i.  115,  3,  1 ;  vii.  60,  3  :  ayukta  tapta  haritah 
tadhattad  yah  Im  rahanti  tOryirm  ghfit/ichlh) ;  vii.  63,  2  (yad  ttaio 
vahanli  dhurth*  yttktah  ;  compare  ix.  63,  7 :  ayukta  turah  ttaiatn  paea- 
minah);  x.  37,  3;  x.  -19,  7.  His  path  is  prepared  by  the  Adityas, 
Mitra,  Arynmun,  and  Varuua,  i.  21,  8  (urwrt  hi  rajd  Varunai  ckahlra 
/a  pantham  ami  etavai  u)  j  vii.  60,  4  (yatmai  Adity&k  adhesma 
radanti  JtHro  AryamS  l'aiunah  MJ9th<ik);  vii.  87,   1.      Pushan  goes 

111  Inilri  i»  «nl  to  tnrcise  the  »ky  with  the  lua't  hones  {*ham  Sirytty  pari 
fmni  niwtkt^pr*  i/i.'*  raJksminaM  quo,  x.  4W,  7).  ComjisM  Ovid's  detenptien 
of  PhaotWt  awes,  MeUm.  ii.  153. 


TO  THE   OII1KR  GODS,    EPITHETS,  AND    FUXCTIOXS.       157 


ns  his  messenger  with  hU  gulden  hhips,  which  sail  in  the  aerial  ocean, 
vi.  58,  3  (yd*  U  Puikan  whaA  antah  tamudre  hiranyayir  anUiriktht 
char  ant  i  \  tabhrir  ydii  datyam  turytuya).  He  id  the  preserver  and  soul 
of  oil  things  stationary  and  moving,  i.  115,  1  (ttiryaA  alma  jagatat 
Uutuxhaieka) ;  vii.  60,  2  {viivaiya  Uhiitur yi/jntahha  gep'iJf),  tho  vivifier 
(pratacita)'*  of  moo,  and  common  to  them  all,  vii.  63,  2,  3  {tadhAranah 
tdryu  mantuhGnun  |  ud  u  tt\ 'praiaviia  jananam).  Enlivened  by  him  men 
pursue  their  end*  and  perform  their  work,  vii.  63,  4  {nilnafh  jamlk 
iQrytna  pratfitflh  ayann  arlhAni  krinamnn  apQ&si).  Ho  is  far-seeing, 
all-seeing,  beholds  all  creatures,  and  the  good  and  bad  deeds  of  mortals,*** 
i.  60,  2,  7;  vi  91,  -J  ;  viL  ;,.'.,  8;  vii.  60,  2;  vii.  61,  1  ;  vii.  63,  1,  4; 
x.  37,  1  (afkrOya  viiiaehakiho4«  \  patyan  janmdni  tdrya  \  Mryah  urn- 
tkakthah  |  riju  marU*hu  rrijin&  cha  pafyan  |  a  Mi"  yo  riser!  bkuranani 
ehai\f(  |  iSrtdrito).  He  is  represented  as  the  eye  of  Mitra  and  Vannja, 
and  sometimes  of  Agni  ahw,  i.  1 15,  1 ;  ti.  51,1;  vii.  61,  1 ;  vii.  63,  1 ; 
X.  37,  1  [chakthwr  Mitraiya  Varunatya  Agiuh  |  thahhiir  Mllratya 
f'arunatya  I  iiairw  Mitratya  Farunasya  ehakukaw).  In  one  passage, 
vii.  77,  3,  TJshas  (the  Dawn  J  is  said  to  bring  the  eye  of  the  gods,  and 

*"  This  word  and  others  dented  from  the  MSN  root  #*  or  >«,  »rc,  at  wo  tball 
abortir  see,  rrrv  fr«|UMiiK  npiilietl  to  Snviiri.     In  x.  66,  2,  the  gala  ire  said  to  bo 

•**  Tbasatne  thing  i»  iintarallv  am!  frri|ii«ntly  mid  of  tic  bud  in  classical  litcra- 
tnre.    Thus  Homer  sari,  Iliad,  iii.  277: 

V*'4i  or  rdfr"  /<i«piit  koJ  voW*  ttoMoiiti-  n.T.A. 
and  *f'n  lD  ,uc  "'"di  ***  3<l  '■ ' 

ouJ'    hr  nil   tialpaitai  j|i'Au/i   r<p, 
*&r*  ml  Hinenav  *<A«rai  $>dor  tfoopda-rttai  • 

And  in  tho  Odrwcr,  vSL  270  f. : 

iipap  81  oj  &7f<Aci<  ^Afliy 
"HAtei,  J  fff>"  Ir&riat  tuyfaitlvnvt  QtA&nru. 
lus  in  tin  Pronirthi'tM  Viuctu*  ; 
jra]  Tip  »tty^TTi)»  KiiitAor  tiAi'tit'  caAu. 

IPlularcb.  hi* and  0»irt»,  12: 
TSt  'P«ai  farl  «(rf^«  vf  Kpirtf  ovyyjroufnn  mirtipitw  iwa^lntUt  vlr   HAi«»- 
So  too  Ovid,  Mrtamnrph,  iv.  i7I  f. :  • 

Priam*  sdultcrimn  Vmeri*  cum  Mart*  putttor 
Hie  riiltMc  deua .  riJot  hie  dcua  omaia  primus. 

and  vnseslMff.: 

qui  quo  omnia  eeroere  debes, 

LruoottiiMCi  rpoctu:  ot  rirginc  flgia  in  ana 
a,aos  saundo  debes  ocnlos. 


LAB 


SfjRYA,   SUBORDINATE    POSITION 


lead  en  tbc  bright  and  beautiful  hone,  by  which  Uie  sun  seems  to  be 
intended  {dtmnnm  eliakihuh  tubhayu  vahantx  itrttSt  nayanll  tudrtilluu* 
a&ram;  compare  vii.  76,  1 :  kratta  dttunAn  ajaniahfa  ehahkvh).™'  In 
x.  85,  1,  it  is  said  that  while  tin  earth  is  upheld  by  truth,  the  iky  i» 
upheld  by  the  tun  {tatyenotlabhita  bhiimih  niryrnotlabhttd  dyauh).  He 
roll*  up  darkness  liko  a  hide,  vii.  63,  1  {fhanura  ynh  samrrryaX 
t-awulmti).  By  his  greatness  he  is  the  divine  leader  (or  priest)  of  the 
gods,  viiL  90,  12  {mahna  detCmum  aturyeh  pvrohitah).  In  viiL  82,  1 
he  is  identified  with  Indra,  or  tict  certd,  Indra  with  him.  In  x.  170, 
4,  the  epithcta  ciivaiarmaii,  the  architect  of  the  universe,  and  cifaad*- 
vyaett,  possessed  of  all  divine  attributes,  are  applied  to  him  (as  in  viii. 
87,  2,  Indra  also  is  styled  mieakarman  and  cibauUra).  In  vii.  60,  1 , 
and  vii.  62,  2,  ho  is  prayed  at  his  rising  to  declare  men  sinless  to 
llitrn,  Vorurju,  etc.  (yad  adya  S&rya  bravo  an&gdh  udyan  Iliiruya 
Varunaya  taiyam). 

(3)  Subordinate  pi>silion  somttimat  tusigmd  to  him. 

In  many  passages,  however,  the  dependent  position  of  Surya  is 
asserted.  Thus  ho  is  said  to  have  been  produced,  or  caused  to  shine,  or 
to  rise,  or  to  hare  his  path  prepared,  etc.,  by  Indra,  ii.  IS,  7  {yah 
Surytut  yah  Uthatam  jttjuna)  ;  iii.  31,  15  {Indro  nnbhir  ajanad 
d:i/ifiinah  tiliam  Saryam  uthaMiii  gdttim  Agnim) ;  iii.  32,  8  (Jejuna 
Suryam  tuhatam) ;  iii.  44,  2  (tOryam  haryann  arochsyah) ;  iii.  49,  4 
(Janitu  $ilryo$ya);  vi.  17,  5;  vi.  30,  5;  viii.  78,  7  [a  iSryatk  rekayo 
divi);**  viii.  87,  2;  x.  171,  4  (tvaSt  lyam  Indra  turyam  paieha  $a»Um 
pura*  hfiihf)  ;  by  Indra  and  Soma,  vi.  72,  2  (uf  *HryaA  nayatho 
jyatithd  laha) ;  by  Agni,  x.  3,  2 ;  x.  156,  4  (A  pit*  nakihatram  ajar  am 
A  uiryaii)  rohayo  rfi'ri  |  dadhaj  jyolir  jnntbhyah);  by  the  Ushases  (Dawns), 


w  In  r.  49.  3,  fi,  sad  x.  10,  9,  the  eye  #f  the  tun  is  spoken  of;  and  in  x.  16,  3, 
the  irtimty  of  the  eye  to  the  *un  u  indicated.  In  A.V.  v.  24,  V,  the  saa  is  said  to  I* 
the  lord  of  eye*  (luryat  c habA mV'm  mJMpattA),  oiid  in  A.V,  iiii.  1,  45,  lie  i«  wkt  to 
see  beyond!  too  sky,  the  earth,  and  the  waters,  and  to  be  tbt  too  cy«  of  created  things 
[iuryu  dj/<lm  turyah  prithivim  turyah  apo  'lipaiyati  \  tutya  tkutatf*  iktim  ehskilmr 
iiruroh.1  dirnm  mil  km). 

***  In  hit  nolo  on  thii  passage  (riii.  78,  7)  Saynn*  relaUs  a  lcgnnd,  that  formerly 
the  P»ui»  had  carried  off  the  cow*  of  the  Angirue*,  and  placed  them  on  a  mountain 
enveloped  in  darkness,  -when  Indra,  after  being  lauded  by  the  Angina**,  aad  suppli- 
cated to  restore  the  com,  caused  the  sun  to  rise  that  he  might  see  them. 


SOMETIMES   ASSIGNED   TO    HIM. 


150 


yiL  78,  3  {ajljaman  tHryam  yqptam  aynirn) ;  by  Soma.  ri.  44,  23  (nyaift 
a*rye  adadhaj  jyelir  antak) ;  ix.  63,  7 ;  ix.  75,  1  ;  ix.  86,  29  (Aim 
jyotiiuJn'  pnvamdna  turf/aft) ;  ix.  96,  5  (jimu'M  tuiyatya) ;  ix.  97,  4 1  ; 
ix.  107,  7;  ix.  110,  3);  by  Dktitri,  x.  190,  3  {i&ryd-tAandramaaan 
Mdta  fatAdpirvam  akalpayat) ;  by  Varans,  i.  24,  8  ;  vii.  87,  I 
(quoted  above);  by  Mitre  and  Varuna,  iv.  13,  2  (anu  praUm  Varum? 
yanti  Jfitro  yat  iQryaA  diet  arahayatttt)  ;  v.  63,  4,  7  (iuryeat  d  dkattha 
AM};  Indra  and  Varuna,  vii.  82,  3  {mryam  airayatam  dit.i  prabkum); 
by  Iadra  and  Vishnu,  vii.  99,  4  fwmii  yajn&ya  cka&rathur  u  UkaA 
jamm/antn  turyam  mfuuam  aynim),  and  by  the  Angirasca  through  their 
rites,  x.  62,  3  (y«  riV<«a  tilryam  urohaya*  oVri  aprathayoH  prithic\m 
m<itaraa\  ri).  In  passages  of  this  dcweriptiuii  thu  divinu  personality  of 
the  tun  is  thrown  into  the  background  :  the  grand  luminary  becomes 
little  more  than  a  part  of  nature,  created  and  controlled  by  those 
■piritoal  powers  which  exist  above  and  beyond  all  material  phenomena. 
The  divine  power  of  Mitra  and  Yurunn  is  said  to  bo  shown  in  the  sky, 
where  Surya  moves  a  luminary  and  a  bright  agent  [or  instrument]  of 
theirs ;  whom  again  tbey  conceal  by  clouds  and  ruin,  v.  63,  4  (ndyd 
rum  lliiruiaiunti  diti  iritd  liiryo  jyetii  eharati  ehttram  uyudkam  \  tarn 
aMrena  rr»A/yd  guhathe  d\tt).  lio  is  declared  to  be  god- bora,  x.37,  I ; 
to  be  the  son  of  the  aky,  ibid.  (Aw/'oMy*  Mare  Dint  putrdya  SHryiya); 
to  Itavc  been  drawn  by  the  god*  from  the  ocean  where  he  wae  hidden 
(x.  72,  7,  see  above,  p.  48) ;  to  have  boon  placed  by  the  gods  in  heaven, 
X.  88,  1 1  [yarfti  id  mam  adadhur  yajniyito  did  dttuk  iHryam  CdiUyam), 
where  ho  is  identified  with  Agni ;  and  to  havo  sprung  from  the  eye  of 
Purushs.  x.  90,  13  (cAsAsAoA  ttryo  ajdyata).'""  He  is  also  said  to  havo 
been  overcome  and  despoiled  by  Indra,  x.  43,  6  (tamrargam  yam  maykarii 
airy  am  jayat),**  who,  in  some  obscure  verses  is  alluded  to  as  having 
carried  off  one  of  the  wheels  of  his  chariot,  i.  175,  4  ;  iv.  28,  2; 
iv.  30,  4  ;  r.  29,  10. 

(4)  1'rantlution  of  a  hymn  It  S&rya. 

T  subjoin,  with  a  translation,  the  greater  part  of  the  picturesque,  if 
somewhat  monotonous,  hymn,   L  50  :    Ud  u  tyaih  jdtatadatam  datum 

***  In  to*  A.V.  hr.  to,  ft,  the  urn  u  uld  to  hate  «pruig  from  Yritlm  (f'p(/ripji*j 
m  See  ibe  iia  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  M  L 


1G0 


HYMX    TO   SfitVA. 


tahanti  ktlmoti  \  driie  vikuya  t&ryam  |  2.  Apa  tye  t&yaro  yathd 
nakikaltrii  yunti  aklubhih  |  stiniya  vtscaehatnha*e  |  3.  Adriiram  a*ya 
htoco  f»  raimayo  jonan  emu  |  bhrHjanta  ngnnyo  yaiha  |  4  Taranir 
tiftvdariato  jyotithkrid  a»i ' lurya  \  tiknm  dbkdti  rethanam  |  6.  Pralyun 
drvilnam  cihxh  pratyauii  ud  uhi  mamuh&n  |  pralyafi  tiknih  tear  if\i*  | 
6  Km  pat  oka  chakiktua  bhHranyantaXi  jauan  ami  |  tvatk  Varum* 
.  |  7.  Fi  dyuM  tthi  rajat  prithu  ahil  mimtino  aktulki^  |  paiyam 
janmi'iui  nirtja  |  8.  Sapta  IrA  harifo  rath*  vahanli  dera  nilrya  |  tockith- 
cichaktfiiina  |  9.  ayukla  sapta  iundhyumh  tiro  ralhatya  naptyah  [ 
t&bkir  yati  arayuktibhih  \  10.  Fd  viiynm  lainnm*  pari  jyvtitk  paiyanttik 
utttiram  |  deram  devatrii  idryam  agtinma  jyotir  uttamam  \ 

1.  "  The  heralds  **'  lead  aloft  this  god  Surya.  who  knows  all  beings, 
(manifesting  him)  to  the  universal  gaze.  2.  (Eolipeed)  by  tin 
tli«  .--t.-irs  xlink  iiwiiy.  like  thieves,  before  thco  tho  all-brholding 
luminary.  3.  His  rays  rcvculing  (his  presence)  are  visible  to  all  man- 
kind, Hosing  like  fires.  4.  Traversing  (the  heavens),  all-con«|>. 
thou  crvatcst  light,  o  Surya,  and  illutninatest  tbfl  v.  h..le  firmament.  5. 
Thon  rjsc*t  in  tho  presence  of  the  race  of  god*,  of  men,  and  i 

heaven,  that  thou  ninyest  he  beheld.  6.  With  that  glance  of 
thine  wherewith,  o  illuminator,  o  Varuno,  thou  surveyest  the  busy  rac© 
of  men,**  7.  thon,  o  Surya,  pawtSfetMS  the  sky,  the  broad  firma- 
ment, measuring  out  the  days  with  thy  rays,  spying  out  all  creatures. 
V  Seven  ruddy  marcs  bear  thee  onward  in  thy  chariot,  o  clear-sighted 
Surya,  the  god  with  flaming  lock*.  9.  The  son  ha*  yoked  the  seven 
brilliant  mares,  the  daughters  of  the  car ;  with  these,  the  self-yoked,  he 
advances.  10.  Gazing  towards  the  upper  light  beyond  the  darkness, 
we  have  ascended  to  the  highest  luminary,  Sfiryn,  u  god  among  tho 
gods."  »*» 

■*■  In  his  trsjwhtfion  of  R.V.  i.  166.  1,  Professor  Mailer  renders  kt*  by  borskl 
(see  pp.  197.  and  201),  *  kik  which  tuits  the  vene  before  us  tcry  wt-U. 

1M  See  Professor  Benfey's  trsntlttion,  and  note  (Orient  und  Occident,  i,  p  MS), 
snd  the  paaugo  or  Roth'*  Abtmndlungcg  (Disscrtationi  on  the  literature  sod  history 
of  the  Veda)  p.  81  f.,  to  which  he  rufen;  ond  in  which  th.il  writer  regards  the  reading 
Mta  a*  >taadin|t  for  ;'mwm,  tho  sec.  sing.,  the  but  syllable  being  l«ngthoo*d  on 
acennnt  of  the  rnrtre. 
,>J  I  subjoin  &  metrical  truncation  of  theso  versea : 
1.  By  luttroui  hernbh  led  on  ; 

Tho  omnisciont  Sun  ascends  the  »lj, 
Ili*  glory  drawing  every  eye. 


EYM.VS  TO  80KTA. 


ir.i 


Tho  Ath&rTa-Ycda  contains  a  long  hymn  toSurya,  xiii.  2,  partly  made 
np  of  extract*  from  tho  Rig-veda. 

Tho  Mahabharata  (iii.  166  rT.)  also  has  a  hymn  to  tho  same  gi<l,  in 
which  he  is  styled  "  tho  eye  of  tho  world,  and  tho  aoul  of  all  embodied 
creature**,"  v.  166  (Ivan  bhiirw  jayalai  ehnkthu*  tram  utrnd  tarta-dehi. 
wlm);  the  source  of  till  boing*,  tho  body  of  observances  perforraed  by 
thoao  who  practise  ceremonies,  the  refuge  of  the  Sankhyns,  the 
highest  object  of  Yogins,  the  unbolted  door,  the  resort  of  those  seeking 
unoipation,  etc., etc. ;  v.  166  f.  (Ivam  yonih mrva-hhuti'uifim  (cam  iic/ul- 
raikriySvatrlm  |  tvato  galih  iarva-s6nkhyt\ifnh  yoyinSH  team  parr) y  a  nam  \ 
an&tjil&rgaladvCiraih  ham  yati*  learn  mumuhihatdm) ;  and  hia  celestial 
chariot  (diryam  ratham)  is  referred  to  (v.  170).  He  is  alao,  we  are  told, 
■aid  by  those  who  understand  tho  computation  of  time,  to  be  the  be- 
ginning and  end  of  that  period  of  a  thousand  yugna  known  as  the  day 
of  Brahma  (yad  oAo  Drahmanah  proktnm  lafuura-yuyrt-iammitarn  \  Uuya 
tram  adir  antai  cha  kalajnailf  iampratirUito$) ;  the  lord  of  the  if  anus, 
of  their  sons,  of  tho  world  6pmng  from  Mann,  and  of  all  the  lords  of 
tho  Munvantaras.  When  the  time  of  the  mundane  dissolution  has 
arrived,  tho  Samvarttnka  fire,  which  reduces  all  things  to  asho*,  issues 
from  his  wrath  (vv.  185  f.;  compare  the  1st  voL  of  this  work,  pp. 
43  f.  and  207). 

2.  All-seMnjr  Sun,  the  rtars  to  bright, 
Which  g]mra«l  throughout  th«  tombr*  night, 
Now  icared,  liko  tbirtoi,  slink  fiut  aw»y, 
Quenched  bjr  the  splendour  of  thy  ray. 

3.  Thy  beams  to  men  tby  pretence  shew; 
Like  blazing  fires  tbsy  seem  to  glow. 

4.  Coii*pieuou»,  rapid,  source  of  light, 
Thnu  mskest  all  lh«  welkin  bright, 

6.  In  tight  of  gck,  and  morUl  eyes, 
la  sight  of  heaven  thou  scal'st  tlie  skies. 

8.  Bright  god.  thou  •cann'st  with  seaicbirig  km 
The  doings  all  of  busy  men. 

7.  Thou  ttrideat  o'er  tho  tky ;  thy  ray* 
Create,  and  measure  out,  oat  day* ; 
Thine  eyo  all  living  things  surveys. 

8.  o.  Seven  looSd  nans  thy  i  h  nisi  bear, 
6<lf>yokti].  athwart  tho  *olds  of  uir, 
Bright  Sfirys,  god  with  lluming  hair. 
10.  Thst  glow  above  the  darkness  w* 
Beholding,  upward  soar  to  I 
For  there  among  the  goib  tit y  light 
Supreme  is  seen,  divinely  bright.  M 


163 


SECTION  XI. 


SAVITgl. 


(I)  His  epithets,  characUmUtt,  and  fimcliem. 


The  hymna  which  aro  entirely  or  principally  derated  to  the  cele- 
bration of  Savitri  are  the  following:  i.  35;  ii.  38  ;  iv.  S3;  it.  54  ; 
t.  81 ;  v.  82  ;  vii.  37 ;  vii.  -15  ;  x.  149  ;  with  muny  detached  pamiimw 
and  verses,  such  as  i.  22,  5-8 ;  iii.  60,  G,  7 ;  iii.  62,  10-12,  etc.,  etc. 

The  epithets,  characteristic*,  and  faactions  of  this  god,  as  described 
in  the  Itig-rcda,  arc  as  follows: 

Ho  is  pre-eminently  the  golden  deity,  being  hirmydhha,  golden- 
eyed  (i.  35,  8) ;  hiranya-p6ni**  kiranya-tuuta,  golden-handed  (i.  22,  5 ; 
i.  35,9,  10;  iii.  54,  11;  vi.  50,  8 ;  vi.  71,4;  vii.  38,  2;  S.V.i.  464; 
Vsj.  8.  i.  16;  ir.  25;  A.V.  iii.  21,  8;  vii.  14,  2;  rii.  115,  2;  ■» 
fiiranya-ji/tva,  golden -tongued  (vi.  71,  3);  tujihva,  beantifol-tongued 
(iii.  54,  11;  vii.  45,  4);  viandra-jtfna,  ploatont-toagued  (vi.  71,  4). 
Ho  invests  himself  with  golden  or  tawny  mail  {pliant/am  driipim, 
iv.  53,  2);  and  assumes  all  forms  (t>ijfptl  rQpdni  prati  mUnchatt  kavih, 
v.  81,  2).  He  is  also  harikeiii,  the  yellow-haired  (x.  139,  1).  Luminous 
in  his  aspect,  he  ascends  a  golden  cur,  drawn  by  radiant,  brown, 
white-footed,  horses ;  and  beholding  all  creatures,  he  pursues  an 
ascending  and  descending  path,  i.  35,  2—5  ;  vii.  45,  1  {hiranyayen* 
SatitH  rathena  aVrii  yiti  bhuumUni  paiyan  \  ydti  devah  pracata  yUi 
vthaiu   yiti   Mriibhyam    yajalo    haribhyum    \    kriianair   tiiettrHpam 

***  Sco  the  twtclcv  explanations  of  this  epithet  given  by  tbc  commentator  ax>d  the 
Kaushliakt  Brfihrnaaa,  as  mvntiunwl  ia  Baku' a  and  Wilson's  boms  oa  i.  22,  S ;  aad 
mm  alao  'Wcbtr'a  Ind.  Studicn,  ii.  300.  Tho  nut  epithet  is  given  to  Saritri  ia  to* 
Vij.  SanhltS.  L  19,  where  tee  the  commentary.  Saritri  is  alio  called  prixkv/xini, 
broad-handed  (ii.  38,  2),  and  tup<iy,  be-iutifnl-handed  (iii.  33,  fi ;  vii.  45,  4). 
Tvtmatri,  too,  u  sailed  MpSflj  (iii,  54,  12),  •>  uc  alao  Mitia  and  \  >8,  1). 

»•  According  to  tbc  A.V.  i.  33,  I,  be,  a*  well  as  Agni,  -kjm  burn  in  tbc  gold— - 
cnlnurrd  waters  (AiVnnyncarfaA  Ituhayah  pucakoh  yon  jata/f  SarilA  yatu  Aynih'). 


BAYITHra  EPITHET8,  CnARACTERISTlC3,  ETC. 


h..: 


kiramya-iamyain  yaj'alo  brihantam  A  atlh&d  rathalh  tatiti  ckitrabhA- 
**k  |  tijtm&n  iyfoHh  iitipSdah  akhyan  rathnih  UnajfapraUfSA  cahan- 
(nk  |  wtild  turotno  onUriitkaprdk  tahamHw  aivaih).  Surrounded  Ij 
a  golden  lustre,  hiranyaylm  amatim  (iii.  38,  8  ;  vii.  38,  1 ;  vii.  45, 
8),  ho  illuminates  the  atmosphere,  and  all  tho  regions  of  the  earth, 
i.  8*,  7,  8;  iv.  14,  2;  iv.  53,  4;  v.  81,  2  (r»  tuparno  aidarikthUni 
akkyat  \  atkfau  ri  akkyat  kahthhitk  prithivyah  \  irdhcam  kctam  tmiU 
dtro  ttfrtj  jyotir  tifr&imsi  bhuvaniiya  krintan  \  adabbyo  bhuranAni  pra- 
thlkiial  I  «'  nOkam  akhyal  Sarita).  His  robust  and  golden  arms,** 
which  he  stretches  out  to  bless,  and  infuse  energy  into,  all  creatures, 
reach  to  the  utmost  ends  of  heaven,  ii.  38,  2;  ir.  53,  3,  4;  vi.  71,  1, 
5 ;  vii.  45,  2  (viivasya  hi  ir\uh\ayi  derah  (irdhvah  pra  bahaiH  prithu- 
pCiHxb  titartti  |  pra  b/ihu  atrtli  Savita  tavlmani  \  ud  u  tya  dttak  Sacitd 
kiranyayA  bybti  ayafnUa  naramlya  tukratuk  \  ud  atya  biihii  iithiri  bri- 
hanUi  kiranyayA  diet  anUln  anash(am).  In  one  place,  however  (vi.  71, 
4),  he  is  colled  ayohanu,  the  iron-jawed,  though  even  there  the  com- 
mentator says  that  ayaa,  which  ordinarily  means  iron,  is  to  be  rendered 
by  gold.  His  ancient  paths  in  the  rky  are  said  to  be  free  from  dusty 
L  85,  11  {y«  U  pantfulh  SaeiUik  pHrtyuso  artnarah  tukritsh  antariktkt). 
He  is  called  (like  Varuijo  and  others  of  the  gods)  atura,  a  divine  spirit 
(L  35,  7,  10;  iv.  53,  1).  His  will  and  independent  authority  cannot 
be  resitted  by  Indro,  TaruQ*,  Mitra,  Aryamnn,  Rudra,  or  by  any  othor 
being,  ii.  38,  7,  9 ;  v.  82,  2  (jwAtr  atya  tAni  rratA  dttatya  Sariiur 
mmanti  |  n/i  yatya  Indro  Faruno  na  Vitro  eratam  Aryama  no  minanti 
Itudrak  |  atya  hi  tzayaiatUtran  Saviluk  kttc.h  ekana  priyam  \  na  minnnti 
narajyam).  He  observe*  fixed  laws,  iv.  53,  4 ;  x.  34,  8 ;  x.  139,  3 
{craiAni  devah  Sarita  'hhiraktkaU  \  Savitti  tatyadharmS).  The  other 
gods  follow  his  lend,  v.  81,  8  (yatya  prnyiinam  ann  tinyt  id  yayur 
AetAh).  The  waters  and  the  wind  obey  his  ordinance,  ii.  38,  2  {Apai 
tkid  atya  vrata  A  nimrigrtih  ayaiit  chid  vAlo  ranatt  parij'maH).  His 
prairea  are  celebrated  by  tho  Vaaus,  by  Aditi,  by  the  royal  Viirurjo,  by 
Mitra,  and  by  Aryaman,  vii.  88,  3,  4  {api  ttulah  SatritA  dexo  att*  yarn 
a  chid  riit«  Fatan  yr'gtih'  I  abhi  yam  dtciAdilir  ypnuti  laraAdemtya 

■»  Indn,  loo,  u  cillnd  Kr**y.i-Hlu,  goMni-anned,  vii.  34,  4.  Ag*i  it  *tid  la 
mom  aleA  bit  »m.«  like  8aviiri,  i.  W,  7.  la  *ii.  79,  3,  Ibo  IXiwni  an  Mad  to  M«d 
fort*  light  m  Sontri  ftretcnw  out  hu  arms.    In  L  1W,  J.  also  the  mum  of  Savitri 

u%  alluded  to.    la  vii.  (2,  6,  Mitia  anil  Vanina  arc  nipiili«',«l   in  mrvlct  out 

A*  am. 


161 


K.lVITRl'S  FUNCTIONS. 


Sarilur  jtuhtind  |  abhi  tamrqjo  Varuno  gr\*anli  abhi  Miirdto  Aryamfl 
ujothah).  lie  U  lord  of  all  desirable  things,  and  tends  blessings  from 
the  tky,  from  the  atmosphere,  and  from  tho  earth,  i.  21,  3  ;  ii.  38,  11 
(fidndA  vary&rtSm  \  asmabhyafft  tad  dito  adlhyah  prilhivya*  hayd  datUtt 
kamyam  radhah  a  git  \  iafh  yat  ttotribhyah  upaye  bhtn&ti  mntiaOuAym 
San'tar  jaritri).  He  impele  the  cor  of  the  Aivins  before  tho  dawn,  L 
Si,  10  {t/vtor  hi  p&rvaSt  Sttvitd  mhato  ratham  r»'Wy*  ckiiram  ghrita- 
tantam  ithyali).  He  is  prajupali,'*'  tho  lord  of  all  creatures,  the  rap- 
porter  of  the  sky  and  of  the  world,  and  is  supplicated  to  hasten  to  hia 
worshippers  with  the  some  eagerness  as  cattle  to  a  village,  as  warriors 
to  their  horses,  as  n  cow  to  give  milk  to  her  calf,  as  a  husband  to  his 
wife,  iv.  53,  2;   iv.  54,  4;   x.  149,  1,  4*»  (Divo  dhartid   bhuranatya 

,nlitt   I    Savitii  yantraih  prithivlm   armmmld  atkombhant   SmiUi 

idrimluit  \   -1.  OCmih  iru  grAmam  ywywlhir  irdiwl*  ttUrnw  rafaanfc 

tumannh  duhdnd  \  paiir  \m  Jdydm  abhi  no  hi  etu  dharta  divak  Saritd 

iirah).  In  v.  82,  7,  he  is  called  vihadeta,  "in  all  attributes  a 
god."  He  measured  (or  fashioned)  the  terreetrlal  regions,  v.  81,  3 
(yah  parlhivrtni  n"  mamo).  He  bestows  immortality' on  the  gods,  iv. 
!>\,  2  ■  Ydj.  Sanh.  xxxiiL  64  (devebhyo  hi  prathamam  yajniythhf* 
amritatvam  nuvaii  bhugam  uttamam),  03  he  did  on  the  Kibhus,  who 
by  the  greatness  of  their  merits  attained  to  his  abode,  i.  110,  2,  3 

!,i»ya  hhuiimiu  agachhata  Savitur  dtiiusho  griham  \  tat  OarUd  r» 
amritatcam  dtuvat).  In  x.  17,  4,  he  is  prayed  to  convey  tho  departed 
spirit  to  the  abode  of  the  righteous  (yatrdmie  twkrito  yatra  U  yayut 
intra  tvd  devah  Suvilii  dadhatti).  He  is  supplicated  to  deliver  his  wor- 
shippers from  Bin,  iv.  54,  8  (achitti  yacJi  efinijima  daicye  jane  .  .  .  .  \ 
tUrcnhu  thii  Satitar  mutiushtthu  eha  tvafo  no  attra  nitatdd  uniigatah). 

Saritri  is  sometimes  called  apdm  napdt,  son  of  the  waters  (x.  149, 
2),  an  epithet  which  is  more  commonly  applied  to  Agni. 

•"  In  Ike  Taittirijra  Brihm»n«,  i.  6,  4,  1  (p.  117),  it  is  Mid,  JVynpaft'A 
thutto  prajSh  *trijmta, "  Ft  ■jilpati,  beeominj;  Savitri,  created  lirinjj  bciBg*,"  Ob 
the  tdfltioa  of  Santo  and  Prajipnti  «c  Weber,  "  Online  uad  Portent*,"  pp.  MO, 
902 ;  and  the  poseajrr  of  the  S'uUjmtha  Bnltimnnn,  lii.  3,  6,  I,  where  it  is  said  that 
paopla  are  nccuMomwl  to  identify  Savitfi  with  Frajfipati,  l'o  My  «ra  Santa  m  I-r«ji. 
palir  Hi  rMb'ftfflA,  St*,  nte. 

**  It  it  not  clear  whether  it  it  Saritp  or  the  aerial  ocean  (m*im«Y«)  from  whJrt 
earth,  atmnphrri-.  aud  »ky  ore  caad  in  x.  U9,  2,  to  hare  »pruu)r.  See  the  4th  Tot. 
of  thia  work,  p.  96. 


DERIVATION  OF  SAVITRI'S  N 


165 


[2)  Ptutagea  in  which  the  origin  of  his  turn*  tmrnt  to  hi  aUuiod  to. 

Tho  word  Savitri  is  defined  by  Y&ska  (Nirukta,  x.  31  as  meaning 
$arva*>/*  pr&Mtita,  but  ho  does  not  explain  in  what  sense  pratavitn  is 
to  be  taken.  Tho  root  *u  or  *a,  from  which  it  i*  derived,  ha* 
principal  ai^uiiicu lions,  (1)  to  generate  or  bring  forth;  (2)  to  pom 
forth  a  libation ;  and  (3)  to  send  or  impel.  When  treating  of  deriva- 
tives of  this  root  an  applied  to  Savitri,  Sayarja  aomotimes  gives  them  the 
sense  of  sending  or  impel)  ing,  and  sometimes  of  permitting  or  authi n 
(mmtjnd).  In  a  fow  places  he  explains  the  root  as  meaning  to  beget. 
(Tbas  on  i.  113,  1,  he  renders  pratfkl/L  by  utpanntl,  and  tar  ah  by  ul- 
pattih).  Tho  word  prasavitri,  as  well  as  various  other  derivatives  of 
the  root  *u,  arc  introduced  in  numerous  passages  of  the  Ilig-vcda  relat- 
ing to  the  god  Saritri,  with  evident  reference  to  the  derivation  of  that 
name  from  the  same  root,  and  with  a  constant  play  upon  tho  worda,** 
such  as  is  unexampled  in  the  case  of  any  other  deity. 

Tho  following  ore  some  of  the  paaaage*  of  tho  Rig-vcda  in  which 
these  derivatives  occur : 

i.  184,  1.  Dtto  no  alra  Savitd  ntt  artham  pr&tnvid  deipat  pro  (ho- 
tuihpoi  ilyai  |  "Tho  god  Savitri  hott  imp'lled  (or aroused)  both  two- 
footed  and  four-footed  creatures  to  pursue  their  several  objects." 

i.  157,  1.  Prantld  drtah  Satitd  jogat  prithok  |  "The  god  Saritri 
has  aroused  each  moving  thing  "  (comp.  L  159,  3). 

v.  81,  2  (=VSj.  8bh.  xiii.  3).  Fis'rd  r&pani  prati  mum-hate  lerih 
prtUtWd  bhodram  deipade  chotu*hpade  \  ci  wllam  alhyat  Soritd  cartgyo 
anm  pray  u  nan  Uthato  virtljati  |  5.  Uta  tilths  pratatotya  team  tlah  id 
via  Pith*  hharati  deca  ydmahhih  \  "The  wise  (Savitri)  puts  on  (or, 
manifests)  all  forms.  He  bath  sent  prosperity  to  biped  and  quadruped. 
Savitri,  tho  object  of  our  desire,  has  illuminated  the  sky.  Ho  shines 
after  the  poth  of  tho  Dawn."  5.  "  Thou  olono  art  tho  lord  of  vivifying 
power,  and  by  thy  movement*,  o  god,  thou  becomest  Fushan,  (or  the 
nouriaher)." 

i     110,  2.  SoudhanvanAiai  tharitatya  bhamand   ayathhata    Savitur 

■**  Sta  Itoth'i  TUualralioat  of  lh«  Xirukta,  p.  "6.     I  cannot  tana  an  >■■ 
•  b*thor  this  reiturt  la  the  brmna  in  «innrtion  afford*  any  lufflcitol  ground  tor  regard- 
log  thai  u  irtjaoil  ta  char*el«,  wul  eon»*qucnUy  a*  eomr«r«u'»»lr  Utt  in  tanr 

origin. 


m 


PASSAGES  WHERE  TOE  ORIGIN  OF 


dahulto  grihnm  \  3.  Tat  Satita  to  amritatzam  tUucat  |  "  Sons  of 
Si:<lh:mvan  ( liibhus),  by  the  greatness  of  your  deeds  ye  arrived  at  the 
houno  of  the  bountiful  Savitri.  3.  Savitri  bestowed  on  you  (attuntt) 
Uiut  immortality." 

i.  159,  6,  Tad  r&dho  adya  Saeitvr  tarenyath  voyafii  dnatya  prawn 
manumahc  |  "That  deairablo  wealth  wo  te-day  seek  through  the 
favouring  impulse  of  tho  divino  Sontri." 

ii.  38,  \,  U&u  tyah  devah  SaviiS  tatBya  taivalamaA  tsd-apAk  tahnir 
culkat  |  "  Tho  god  Savitri  hath  arisen  to  impel  (or  vivify)  us,  bo  who 
continually  so  work*,  tho  supporter." 

iii.  33,  6  (Nir.  ii.  26).  Devo  anayal  SaeilA  ntpCgit  lasya  vayam  pra- 
iave  yumuh  urviA  I  "  The  god  Savityi  hath  led  (us,  i.e.  the  water*) ;  by 
hi*  propulsion  we  flow  on  broadly." 

iii.  56,  6.  Trir  6  diva  ft  Sacilafr  vdrySni  dive  dice  dtuca  trir  no  ahnah  \ 
7.  Trir  &  divah  Savita  sothaclti  r&jana  Hitrutarvnu  tupunl  \  "  Thrice 
every  day,  o  Savitri,  send  ue  desirable  things  from  the  sky.     7.  ! 
Savitri  oontinuc*  to  send  down  (these  things  to  us)  from  the  sky ;  and 
so  also  do  tho  fair-handed  Mitra  and  Varuna." 

iv.  63,  3.  Pra  b&hu  asriik  Suviti  sarimam  nire&yan  pratuviuat  tk- 
(utMrjayat  |  6.  Jtj-ihateumnah  praiavilu  nivtiano  jagatah  elfotur  ubha- 
y"\>/''  ijo  vail  |  m  no  detah  Sacitd  iarma  yathhatu  |  "Savitri  hath 
stretched  out  his  arms  in  his  vivifying  energy  {$avimani*c),  stabliah- 
ing  and  animating  all  that  move*  by  his  rays.  6.  May  that  god 
Savitri,  who  bestows  great  happiness,  tho  vivificr,  tho  stablisher,  who 
hi  lord  both  of  that  which  moves  and  of  that  which  is  stationary, 
bestow  on  us  protection." 

iv.  54,  3.  Aehittl  yach  cftakrima  dairye  jane  dlnair  dal*huih  prabhall 
purushvata  |  dttethu  cha  SaviUtr  munu*he*hu  cha  trarh  no  atra  ntcatdd 
magaiah  |  "  Whatever  (offence)  wo  have  committed  by  wont  of 
thought,  against  the  divine  race,  by  feebleness  of  understanding,  by 
\  inl. 'iicc,  iftet  tho  manner  of  men,  and  cither  against  gods  or  men,  do 
thou,  o  Savitri,  constitute  (tuvattit)  us  sinless." 

v.  82,  3.  Sa  hi  ratniini  diihuhe  tuviiti  Saviti  Ilhayah  |   4.  Adya  no 

devah   Savilah  prajdvat  sivlh  eaubhayam   \  para   dtuAcapnyam  tar*  | 

6.  Viiwni  dera  Savitar  duriioni  pari  turn  yad  hhadrom  U*  nak  utm*\ 

6.  Anogatoh  Aditayt  devatya  Satituh  tat*  |   vihtl  tundni  dMmahi  \ 

*°  Thi»  word  alto  occurs  in  Sima-vciLi,  i.  401. 


BAYITRrS  NAME  IS  ALLUDED  TO. 


7  A  riiradrrttm  tatpatim  tUktair  adya  rrinimnfu  |  tatyataeom 
(dram  |  "  May  he,  Savitri,  who  is  Ilhaga,  (or  the  protector,  bhaya), 
wraith  to  his  worshipper.  4.  Send  (idplj)  to-day,  o  divine 
Savitri,  prosperity  with  progeny:  tend  away  (pard-ntea)  sleeplessness 
(compare  x.  37,  4,  where  a  similar  expression  (apa  tura)  is  employed 
in  the  case  of  Surya).  6.  Send  away,  o  divine  Savitri,  all  calamities; 
send  (Asttra)  us  what  U  good.  6.  Hay  we,  bcooming  sinless  towards 
Aditi,  through  the  influence  (tava)  of  the  divine  Savitri,  possess  all 
thiaga  desirable.  7.  "We  seek  to-day,  with  hymns,  for  Savitri,  who 
poswawa  true  energy  (Mfyfl-Mra*1),  and  all  divine  attributes,  tho  lord 
of  the  good." 

vi.  71,  I.  U'l  u  tyak  dttah  Sarild  h\ranyay/l  bah*  myaiM*  taran&ya 
i*kr«luh  |  2.  Devatya  vayaSi  Sariluk  sarfmani  fruhfhe  lyuma  raamas 
eke  i&mm  |  yo  viiraiya  diipado  yai  chattuhpada  nirciaiu  prataic 
ek&ri  hhinuanah  |  6.  VAmam  adya  Sam'tar  rdmam  u  he  dice  dire 
90  mam  anukkyam  iflrlA  |  "The  potent  god  Savitri  hath  stretched 
oat  his  golden  anna  to  vivify  (or  impart  energy).  2.  May  we  sliare 
in  the  excellent  vivifying  power  (compare  x.  36,  12)  of  the  god 
Savitri,  and  in  the  bestowal  of  wealth  by  thee,  who  continue**  to 
sUblish  and  vivify  the  entire  two-footed  and  four-footed  world.  0. 
Send  to  us  to-day,  Savitri,  what  is  deairable ;  send  it  to  us  to-morrow, 
and  every  day." 

vii.  38,  3.  Ud  ii  tMfha  Satiiak  .  . .  &  nribhya  marltabhejanaih  iuyiU 
*ah  |  4.  Abhi  yam  tUt't  Aditir  grinuti  ttiram  dttatya  Satitur  jutluinu  | 
akki  Ktmrijo  Varviw  jrigemtt  abki  MUrSto  Aryamd  lajotkSk  \  "  Rise, 
Savitri,  .  .  .  sending  (dmrdmh)  to  men  the  food  which  is  lit  for  mor- 
tals. 4.  Whom  (•>.  Savitri)  the  goddess  Aditi  praises,  welcoming  tho 
vivifying  power  of  the  divine  Savitri,  whom  Vamno,  Mitro,  and  Ar- 
yaman  laud  in  oonocrt" 

vii.  40,  1 .  Yad  adya  devah  SacilA  tuv&U  ty&ma  atya  ratninc  vihhagt  | 
"  Muy  we  partake  in  the  distribution  (of  wealth)  which  the  opulent  god 
Savitri  ahall  wnd  to-day." 

vii.  45,  I.  A  deto  ydl*  SaciUl  tnra/no  antariktha-prdh  tahamunn 
ahaik  |  ha»U  dadkam  naryd  purunt  mttiayan  cka  pnuuean  eka  tkima  | 
3.  Sm  yha  no  oVraA  Sarxtd  tahilm  sue iVAurf  ta$npalir  raiflmt  |  "  May  the 

mi  fiifl  anaa  cj«t*rt  is  spplicd  to  biiu  m  x.  3G,  13.  It  occurs  abo  is  the  Sinu- 
veda,  i.  4M. 


S.WITRI  SOMETIMES  DISTINGUISHED  FROM, 


god  Savitri  approach,  rich  in  treasures,  filling  the  atmosphere,  borne 
by  horses,  holding  in  his  band  man;  gifts  suitable  for  men,  itabliahing 
and  vivifying  the  world.  3.  May  the  powerful  god  Saritri,  lord  of 
-wealth,  send  us  riches." 

viiL  91,  6.  AtaceBt  Stritur  yathi  Bhagatyrra  bhujiA  hurt  |  A$nir* 
snmudravilfatam  |  "I  invoke  the  sea-clothed  Agni,  as  (I  invoke)  the 
■vivifying  power  (taram1*1)  of  Savitri  and  the  bounty  of  Bhaga." 

X.  35,  7.  Srethfham  no  adya  Savilar  rartnyam  bhogan  ntura  m  hi 
ratnadhuh  ati  \  "  Seed  as  to-day,  o  god  Saritri,  a  miwt  excellent  and 
desirable  portion,  for  thou  art  the  possessor  of  riches." 

x.  36, 14.  SatHtl  nah  $uvatu  Mixatatim  |  "May  Saritri  send  {twatu) 
all  prosperity,"  etc. 

X.  100,  8.  Apa  amhom  Savitii  tuvitkad  nyal  |  "May  Savitri  remove 
(apasGvuhal)  sickness." 

x.  139,  I,  Stkryaraimir  harihiah  pvrattut  Sacita  jyntir  ttd  ay  Ah 
a/atram  |  l<uya  Pushd  prtuate  y&ti  tidran  tampaiyan  vihu  Ihuron&ai 
g</p6h  |  "Invested  with  the  solar  rays,  with  yellow  hair,  Saritri  raises 
aloft  his  light  continually  from  the  east  In  his  energy  (/>r»Mr«)  the 
wise  Puskaa  marches,  beholding  all  world*,  a  guardian." 

Compare  A.V.  t.  21,  1  ;  rii.  14,  I,  3;  vii.  15,  1. 

The  preceding  passages  will  suffice-  to  show  the  extent  to  which  this 
play  on  words  is  carried  in  the  hymns  addressed  to  Saritri. 

Derivatives  from  the  same  root  are,  as  we  have  already  seen,  also 
applied  to  Surya,  as  prat/tritd  and  pra*utah,  in  B..V.  rii.  63,  2  and  4 ; 
and  apaiuca  in  x.  37,  4;  to  Indra  {haryaira-pra*\i(<ih,  iii.  30,  12);  to 
Yaruna  (pardtuca,  ii.  28,  9);  and  to  Mitra,  Aryuman,  Saritri,  and 
Bhaga  {/rnuUi,  vii.  66,  4).  In  rii.  77,  1,  Ushas  (the  Dawn)  is  said  to 
rouse  [pramvantx)  all  living  creatuits  into  motion.  In  viii.  18,  1,  the 
impulse,  vivifying  power,  or  favouring  uid  [taclmani)  of  the  Adityas  is 
referred  to. 


(3)  Saritri,  sometinft  dislitujtiuhed  from,  tonutima  idtttlifitd  tcUk, 

Sarya. 

Saritri  is  somotimoa  expressly  distinguished  from  Surya.^  Thus  ho  is 
said  iu  i.  35,  0,  to  approach,  or  (according  to  Prof.  Bcnfcy's  rendering)  to 

***  In  i.  164,  26,  and  ix.  6",  25,  particularly  In  the  Utter  psuogc,  tat*  may  mttta 
a  lihuiuu  of  »ma.    Coujpuro  Irahmawtiih  in  ix.  67,  24, 


SOMETIMES  IDENTIFIED  WITII.  SUIIYA. 


If,!) 


bring  Surya  [rtti  iHrynm) ;  *°  in  i.  1 23,  3,  to  declare  men  sinless  towards 
Surya"4  (rf«x»  no  atlra  Siwitd  daminak  amtgato  cochati  SuryAyit) ;  and  in 
v.  81,  4,  to  combine  with  the  rays  of  Sfirya  (irfit  Surytuya  raimi6kiik 
tamuchyati).  In  explanation  of  the  last  passage,  Siyana  remark*,  that 
before  his  rising  the  sun  b  callc!  ,  and  from  his  ruing  till  his 

sotting  Surya  (udaydl  p'1rcalh<li;l  Sacitd  |  udaydilamayarartlt  Saryak 
Hi).  And  similarly  Tasks  says,  Nirukta  xii.  12 :  ta*ya  halo  yads  jjftm 
apalttatamaifka  iltirnaraimir  bktcati  |  "the  time  of  Savitri's  appparanco 
m  is  when  darkness  has  been  removed,  and  the  rays  of  light  torn  bicomo 
diffused  oTcr  tho  sky."  If  so,  his  action  must  also  extend  to  a  later  period 
of  the  day,  as  in  vii.  C6,  4,  ho  is  prayed  along  with  Mitra  (the  god  of 
the  day)  and  Aryaman  and  Bhaga,  to  vivify  the  worshipper  after  the 
rising  of  tho  sun  (yad  aiya  tars  udiU  anuguh  Jlilro  AryamA  |  mHfl 
StnitA  Iihogah).  Again,  in  x.  139,  1,  Savitri  is  termed  tQrya-raim, 
"  invested  with  the  rays  of  Surya  ;  "  and  in  the  8th  and  10th  verses 
of  vii.  35  (verse  8:  iam  mh  Siryah  urwhahhuh  |  10 :  Id  ft  no  (Utah 
SmitA  trayamAnah),  as  well  as  in  x.  181,3  (Lh&tvr  dyutflnGt  SatHui  cha 
Tuhnor  a  Sury&d  abharan  gharmam  0(e),  the  two  gods  are  separately 

Mliontd,  unless  we  are  to  suppose  (but  apparently  without  reason) 
that  in  the  last  passage  tho  writer  means  to  identify  sll  the  four  gods 
who  are  there  named,  viz.  DliiHri,  Savitri,  Vishnu,  and  Suryn.  In 
i.  Iu7,  1  also,  whore  several  gods  are  mentioned  besides  Surya  and 
Sovitri,  tho  last  two  appear  to  bo  distinguidivd  :  abodhi  Aguir  jittah 
udtti  Siiryo  v%  Uihui  chaudrd  maht  utio  archishA  \  ayuktkutan  Ahimi 

m*  rat  him  prAiutid  eVru  k  Sacita  jagat  prilkak  |  "  Agni  has  awoko 
from  the  earth  :  Surys  rise* ;  the  great  and  bright  Ushas  has  dawned 
with  her  radiance ;  tho  Asrins  havo  yoked  their  car  to  go ;  Savitri  bos 
vivified  each  moving  creature."  In  other  texts,  howover,  the  two 
names  appear  to  be  employed  indiscriminately  to  denote  tho  aamo 
deity,  vis.  in  iv.  14, 1  (Qrdluan  k*tum  Smita  dno  airrjjyotir  tihamai 
bhuztnnyn  Irinran  |  A  apn'ih  dyAvA-prilhirl  anlarUufiaM  vi  Siiryo  rat- 


**»  Silyini  remarks  here  tost,  thouph  tho  eodhead  of  Ssritri  and  80rja  is  idon- 
ticsl,  they  may  jut,  from  lb«ir  rcprtxuting  •tilfcrcnt  furma,  bo  tpukco  of  •»  iwpcc- 
tJTtljr  approaching  and  approached  iydyafi  —rilriiuryofor  ikadnitatuim  UiK;ii 
mirllt-t  Vrfm#  £aNfri*9«nfai-)»-Miir<i/i}. 

*•♦  As  in  snotlm  plsos  (x.  12,  ft),  li«  in  supplicated,  along  with  Mitr*  ami  Aditi,  to 
declare  lac  worshippers  rialot  towards  Varuns. 


170 


SAVTTRI  AND  OTHER  DEITIES. 


mi'Mtf  ckeliliinah)  i  x.  15ft,  1  (Siryo  no  Hi  rat  patu  .  .  .  |  2.  JmL* 
SavitaA  .  .  .  |  3.  CkoJts/mr  no  dtnak  Savitt ...  J  a.  SHtandrii**  ton 
tayrm  prati  paiytma  Sirya).  la  i.  35,  7,  also  tha  namo  Siirya  may 
be  employed  as  synonymous  with  8avitri,  which  is  found  in  tho  other 
verses  of  the  hymn,  although,  aa  we  have  already  seen,  Uio  two  deities 
appear  to  be  distinguished  in  verse  9.  See  also  i.  124,  1  ;  and  rii.  63, 
1-4  (when  tho  word  Surya  ia  used  in  Torses  1, 2,  nod  3,  and  Saritri  in 
Terse  4,  and  where  the  functions  expressed  by  tho  derivative*  of  tho 
root  tu,  which,  as  wo  bavo  scon,  aro  most  generally  assigned  to  Saritri, 
are  in  verses  2  and  4  predicated  of  Surya). 

In  t.  81,  4  and  5  (uta  Mitn  bhavati  dert  dharmMih  |  6.  Ula  Piiha 
bhar«ti  itta  ydmahhih,),  Saritri  is  idontilied  with  ilitrt  aud  Puahan, 
or  ia,  at  least,  described  as  fulfilling  the  proper  function  of  tho*©  gods. 
And  similarly  in  v.  82,  1,  3,  and  viL  38,  1,  6  (unless  with  Prof.  Roth, 
#.c.  we  take  Bhaga  us  a  simple  epithet),  Saritri  seems  to  be  identified 
with  tho  god  of  that  name.  On  the  other  hand,  ho  ia  clearly  distin- 
guished from  those-  and  other  deities,  in  such  text*  as  iii.  54,  11,  12; 
vi.  49,  14 ;  vi.  50,  1,  13;  riii.  18,  3;  viii.  91,  6;  x.  139,  1. 

Tho  word  8aritri  is  not  always  a  proper  name ;  but  is  sometimes 
used  as  an  epithet.  Thus  in  ii.  30,  1,  it  seems  to  express  an  attribute 
of  InJra;  aud  in  iii.  55,  19,  and  x.  10,  5  (decat  7\ath(a  tatitu  r«- 
cartipah),  to  be,  as  well  as  viioarQpa,  on  epithet  of  Trash  tri.  As 
applied  to  this  god,  it  probably  means  rather  the  generator,  than  the 
ririficr. 


171 


SECTION    XII. 


pDsdan. 

I  commence  my  description  of  this  deity  by  translating  the  account 
given  of  him  in  the  Sanskrit  and  German  Lexicon  of  Messrs.  ttothlingk 
and  Koth,  vol.  iv.  p.  8541 

(1)  Fvnctient  and  tpithtU  of  Pfahan. 

"  Fushan  is  a  protector  and  multiplier  of  cattle  {patupS)  and  of 
human  possessions  in  general  (puthfimblmrit,  R.V.  vi.  3,  7).  As  a 
cowherd  he  earriea  an  ox-goad  (vi.  63,  9 ;  vi  58,  2)  and  he  is  drawn 
by  goats  (aj&tta).  In  character  he  is  a  solar  deity, •**  beholds  tin* 
entire  universe,  and  la  a  guide  on  roods  and  journies  (i.  42,  1 ;  x.  17, 
6  ;  x.  59,  7 ;  x.  85,  2G ;  A.V.  vi.  73,  3),  and  to  the  other  world  (pa- 
thatpati,  prapathya  (x.  17,  3,  5;  A.V.  xvi.  9,  2;  xviii.  2,  53).  He  is 
called  the  lover  of  his  sister  Suryn  (vL  55,  4,  5 ;  vi.  58,  4).  He  aids 
in  the  revolutions  of  day  and  night  (i.  23,  13-15);  and  shares  with 
Boa*  the  gunnliaimljip  of  living  creatures  (Soma-pdtlttiitau,  ii.  41),  1  IF.). 
ire  is  invoked  along  with  the  most  various  deities,  but  most  frequently 
with  Indra  {Indra-pCh^au,  i.  162,  2;  vii.  35,  1),  and  Bhaga  (iv.  30, 
24 ;  v.  41,  4 ;  v.  46,  2 ;  x.  125,  2.  Compare  SUtapatha  Brihtuaoa  si. 
4,  3,  3 ;  Xity.  8r.  v.  13,  1).  His  most  remarkable  epithets,  in  ud- 
dition  to  those  nbovo  specified,  are  ayhrini,  kepariin,  htrambhtul,  daira, 
iitna,  datnuuarehas,  naraiama  (R.V.  i.  106,  4;  x.  64,  3)  cimucho 
uaptit,  eimoekans.  Compare  especially  the  hymns  K.V.  tj.  53-58; 
x.  26."  The  reader  can  also  consult  the  remarks  on  this  god  given  in 
the  Introductions  to  Professor  Wilson's  translation  of  the  ltig-veds, 
vol.  i.  p.  xxxv.  and  voL  ill.  p.  xii. 
The  hymns  which  are  exclusively  devoted  to  the  celebration  of 

***  la  Nil.  vtL  9,  where  II.  V.  x.  17,  J,  is  quoted,  Tasks  explains  tho  vonla  Mttnm* 
mjm  fepik  there  applied  to  Pflahan,  by  mrvuAan  ihmlaimm  gafagila  adilfak  \  "  toe 
•uii,  the  prcMrrer  o/  all  bring*." 


172 


FUNCTIONS  AND  EHTIIETS  OF  PUjJIIAN. 


Fuahan  arc  i.  42  ;  L  138  ;  vi.  53-66  ;  vi.  58  ;  and  x.  2< 
ii.  40,  he  is  invoked  along  with  Soma,  and  in  vi.  57,  in  company 
with  Indra.  The  sdnglo  or  detached  verses  of  other  hymni  in  which 
ho  is  mentioned  arc  numerous.  In  addition  to  the  epithets  uborc 
specified  by  Professor  Both,  I  noto  the  following,  and  others  will 
be  found,  in  the  hymns  which  are  translated  below :  ayohya,  not 
to  bo  hidden  (x.  64,  3);  anartan,  resistless  (vi.  4ft,  16);  abhyar- 
dhayajvan,  bringing  blessings  (vi.  50,  5);"*  atura,  divine  (v.  51,  11); 
Juhayadvlra,  ruler  of  heroes  (i.  106,  4);  tar  y  as,  strong,  and  lura, 
vigorous  (v.  43,  9);  tucijuta,  of  powerful  nature  (i.  138,  1);  purandki, 
■4flQ  (ii.  31,  4);  />Mrfir«i*w,  abounding  in  wealth  (viii.  4,  15);  vutn- 
tumtxt,  wise  in  counsel  (i.  42,  5);  mamhithfha,  most  bountiful  (riii.  4, 
18) ;  mayobha,  beneficent  (i.  138,  2) ;  v&jin,  bestower  of  food  (i.  106, 
4);  ickra,  powerful,  (viii,  4,  15);  vifradtvya,  distinguished  by  all 
divine  attributes  (x.  92,  18);  viiuuaubhtiga,  bestowing  all  blessings 
(i.  42,  6)  ;  tikartdat,  knowing  all  things  (L  89,  6)  ;  hirenyavaJl- 
uialtama,  skilful  wioldcr  of  a  golden  spear  (i.  12,  6) ;  and  Soma  is  said 
to  be  like  Pushuu  an  impeller  of  the  soul  {dhijavana).  He  is  the  lord 
of  oil  things  moving  and  stationary,  the  inspirer  of  the  soul,  an  on- 
conquerablo  protector  and  defendor,  and  is  besought  to  give  increase  of 
wealth,  i.  89,  6  (iam  iiuiiam  jagata*  tatttuhat  patiA  dhiyaidjintaxn 
urate  kHmahe  tayam  \  Putha  ho  yalha  ttdaidm  cuad  rridh*  rakUiiti 
puyur  adabdhah  *taslayt\  compare  ii.  1,  6).  He  is  besought  to  main- 
tuiu  Ids  friendship  steadfast  like  a  skin  without  holes  and  well  filled 
with  curds;  he  is  declared  to  transcend  mortals,  and  to  be  equal  to 
the  gods,  in  glory ;  and  is  prayed  to  protect  his  servants  in  battle  and 
to  defend  them  as  of  old,  vi.  48, 18  (dritcr  iva  U  arr'kam  asl*  lakhyam  | 
aekhidratya  dadhanvatah  tupurnaiya  dadkanratah  |  19.  Para  hi  mortyair 
oil  tamo  devoir  ula  iriytl  |  abhi  khyah  Piuhan  priiandtu  no*  ttam  ara 
nunam  yalKtl  purd).  Ho  is  said  to  regard,  and  to  see  clearly  and  at 
once,  all  creatures,  iii.  G2,  9  (yo  ciird  abhi  iipa&yati  bhutaitA  mA  cha 
faiyati  |  ta  mh  Puehd  'vitd  bttuiat),  and  in  x.  139,  1,  is  associated 

«•  "Spenden  cntg*g«obriog«n(l "  (Both).  TiUka  (Nir.  vi.  6)  explains  th*  compound 
a*  *b\yardhayan  yajtili,  "  uao  who  iacrvtuinir.  worships,"  and  S;>)«9»  expand*  titia 
into  "pruopwiag  hi*  worahippcr*  "  (*Mrln  aUyanHiaj/an  t\unri<UJ%*»  kwtm  pa 
yqjmtHHaiuna  pijayati  (ndrHah) ;  Ruth,  in  hi*  lllurtrationa  u/  the  XirukU,  p.  T6, 
incline*  to  the  tame  interpretation. 


FUNCTIONS  AND  EPITHETS  OP  PD8HAN. 


173 


St  i'ri  and  is  described  as  moving  onward  under  bis  impulse,  and 
as  knowing  and  perceiving  all  creatures,  a  guardian  (taiya  Pudd  pra- 
tava  yati  tidtun  $ampaiyan  riitd  lAucandni  gopfih).  He  in  connected 
with  the  marriage  ceremonial  in  x.  86,  26  and  37,  being  besought  to 
take  the  brido'a  bund  and  lead  Lcr  awaj  (verso  26.  P&tha  tcti  ito  no- 
yatu  hattagr&ya),  and  to  bless  her  in  her  conjugal  relation  (37.  turn 
J'uthan  iiiatamdm  &  irayatca) ;  ■n  and  in  another  place  he  is  prayed  to 
give  his  worshippers  their  share  of  damsels,  ix.  67,  10  {avitd  no  aj&i- 
mA  Pitha  ySmani  ynmnai  a  bhahhad  kanytiw  nah).  According  to  Pro- 
f Biter  Both  (as  quoted  above)  PuBhan  is  not  only  the  tutelary  god  of 
travellers,  but  also,  like  Savitri  and  Agni,  and  the  Greek  Hermes,  a 
^o^owo/mto?,  who  conducts  departed  spiriU  on  their  way  to  the  olhor 
world,  and  in  proof  of  this,  as  wo  have  seen,  ho  refers  to  K.Y.  x.  17,  3, 
5,  and  two  passages  from  the  A.V.  These  textB  are  as  follows  :  R.V. 
x.  17,  3  ff.  (rones  which,  as  I  learn  from  Professor  M.  Miill«-r'n 
article  on  the  funeral  ceremonies  of  the  Brahmins,"*  p.  xi.  If.,  are 
directed  to  be  recited  during  the  cremation  of  the  body) :  Ptiihd  ttd 
itai  ekydvayatu  pro  tridvOn  antuhfapasur  bkumnatya  gopdh  |  m  frd 
tUbkyth   pari  daiat   pifribhyo   Agnir  dmtbhyah.    luridatriytbkyak    | 

4.  Ayur  tiivayub  pari  pdtali  fad  Patkd  tut  juitu  prapatht  purattilt  \ 
yatrntaU  tukfito  yalra  U  yaytu   iatra   ttd   dctah   Saritd  dadhUu   \ 

5.  Pothd  im&h  Sidh  ana  re-da  tarvdh  to  atmln  alhayaiavuna  ntthat  | 
tnutiddlf  tlyhri»ib  turratlro  aprayuchhan  pvrah  etu  prajdnan  |  6. 
Prapalht  patk&m  ajaiu'thfa  PinSa  prapallu  ditah  prapathe  prithi- 
tyllh  |  ubh*  nbhi  priyatam*  to&atth*  S  cka  para  cha  ckarati  prdjamm  | 
■  8.  May  Piuhan  convey  thee  away  hence,  the  wise,  tho  preserver 
of  the  world,  who  loses  nono  of  his  cattle  j  may  ho  deliver  thee  to 
these  fathers ;  and  may  Agni  (entrust  thee)  to  the  gracious  gods.  4. 
May  life,  full  of  vitality,  protect  thee:  May  Puflhan  convey  thee  onward 
on  thy  distant  road ;  May  Savitri  place  thee  where  the  righteous  abide, 
in  the  place  whither  they  have  gone.  5.  Puxhun  knows  all  these 
regions:  may  he  conduct  us  in  perfect  security;  blessing,  glowing,  all- 
heroic,  may  he  go  before  us,  watchful  and  understanding.  6.  Pushan 
was  born  to  move  on  distant  paths,  on  tho  far  road  of  heaven  and  the 
tar  road  of  earth.    Ho  goes  to  and  returns  from  both  tho  beloved  abodes." 

•"  S*«  WoW«  I  ml   S'.ihL  t.  188,  and  190. 

*■*  Jommal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  vol.  U.,  at  tho  cad. 


17-1 


HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  PUSIIAX. 


A.V.  xti.  9,  2.  Tad  Agnir  aha  tad  u  Somah  aha  Putku  md  dhiit 
ndritatya  loke  |  "  Agni  says,  and  Soma  says,  '  may  Pushan  place  ma 
in  the  world  of  righteousness.'  " 

A.V.  xviii.  2,  53-  A'jmiKvma  patJ,UrHii  tyonam  dtrtlhgo  ralnnA  ia- 
dkntftttr  ti  hksm  |  ujxt  prtthgatam  Putnam  y*  nhuti  ajagunaih  patht- 
bhit  tattra  gachkaUm  |  "  Agni  and  Soma,  makers  of  paths,  ye  have 
prepared  for  the  gods,  as  a  treasure,  a  beautiful  world ;  go  thither  and 
■end  hither  to  ua  Pushan,  who  shall  conduct  us  by  direct  rooda."  m 
:  V.  i.  23,  13  f.  the  glowing  P'ishan  is  prayed  to  bring  hither, 
a  lout  beast,  the  supporter  of  the  sky,  who  is  surrounded  by  brilliant 
grass ; ""  and  ia  said  to  have  found  the  king  so  designated,  who  had 
been  concealed  (d  Puthan  chitrabarhiiham  iighrine  d/umina&  dirai 
uja  utuhfam  yatful  poinm  |  14.  PixhA  rcijurnm  aghrinir  apogalham 
guhA  hitam  |  aiindach  chitrabarhitham). 

In  one  passage,  i.  23,  S,  the  other  gods  are  designated  by  the  appel- 
lation of  piltJuiriiti,  "bestowers  of  Puahan'a  gifta,"  or  "  haviug  Pfuhan 
oa  their  chief  giver." 


(2)  Hymn*  addreued  to  Puthan. 

I  shall  now  translate  some  of  tho  hymns  addressed  to  Pushan,  from 
which  it  will  appear  that  the  character  of  this  god  is  not  very  distinctly 
defined  ;  and  that  it  is  difficult  to  declare  positively  what  province 
of  nature  or  of  physical  action  ho  is  designed  to  represent,  as  is  at 
once  manifest  in  the  case  of  Dyaus,  Prithivl,  Agni,  lndra,  Parjanya, 
and  Sfirya: 

i.  42,  1.  Sam  Psihann  adhtanat  lira  pi  amho  vimucho  napdt  |  HlktJwt 
d*ra  pro  not  purah  |  2.  To  nah  Pithanit  agho  trilo  dviimah  adiddati  | 
ttfju  *ma  I  mm  patho  Juki  |  3.  Apa  tt/an  paripanthinam  niuhlcuMm 
huraichitam  |  durum  adhi  vruitr  aj'a  |  4.  Team  taiga  dcayArino  aghai*™- 
tcuya  la»ya  chit  |  padd  'bhi  tithfha  taputkim  \  5.  A  tat  U  datra  man- 
tumah  Pialuinn  aeo  criniinaJie  \   gma  pitr'tn  achodayah  |   6.  Adia  no 

*"  Trof.  Roth,  ».«>.  t*kcs  ^ji>yan«ih  »  ■  atytytniiih. 

n»  Professor  Both  understands  this  epithet  chitrabtrkia  to  mesa  "bstiag  gtiUeriag 

straw,"  or  "  hmiug  around  him  straw  ia  the  form  of  {•**!*,"  anil  ujiplim  it  to  tke 

li.il.  Baany,  following  Saj-una.  considers  that  Sunia  is  tho  deity  iatended, 

and  nvndm  the  word  tMintlurAu  by  "  reposing  on  s  rich  covering."    Tbs 

•vcius  vbjcurv. 


HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  Fl'SIIAN. 


175 


titc4Mv!>h4<fa  hiNmyovdiimaHam*  \  ihatu'mi  tmkanu  kridhi  [  7.  Ati 
nak  taichaU  nay*  tugH  nah  mptttui  krinu  j  I'iuAonn  iha  krdtutk  tidah  \ 
8.  AbKi  svyrtewM*  nay*  na  namjt&n  adhvan*  l  Pmhan* .  -  -  |  9,  S'aa- 
dhi  pardAiprs  ysiwsi  tha  iiiiht  prOti  udaram  |  Pmjiann  ...  |  10.  2Va 
Pti$knam  mtth&mtui  tUktair  abhi  grinimati  J  auQni  daman  ItnaAe  | 
"  1 .  Conduct  ua,  Fushan,  over  our  road ;  remove  diatrces,  son  of  the  de- 
liverer ; w  go  on  before  na.  2.  Smite  away  from  our  path  the  destruc- 
tive and  injurious  wolf  which  seeks  after  us.  3.  Drive  sway  from  our 
path  the  way  layer,  the  thief,  the  robber.  4.  Tread  with  thy  foot  upon 
tho  burning  weapon  of  that  deceitful  wretch,  whosoever  he  be.  5.  0 
wonder-working  and  wiso  Fushan,  we  desire  that  help  of  thino  where- 
with thou  did.  favour  our  fathers.  6.  0  god,  who  bringest  all  bleat- 
ing*, and  art  distinguished  by  thy  golden  spear,  make  wealth  cosy  of 
acquisition.  7.  Convey  us  post  our  opponents;  make  our  paths  easy 
to  traverse ;  gain  strength  for  us  hero.  8.  Lead  us  over  a  country  of 
rich  pastures ;  let  no  new  trouble  (beset  our)  path.  9.  Bestow,  aatiate, 
grant,  stimulate  ub,  fill  our  belly.  10  Wo  do  not  reproach  Piishaa, 
we  praiso  him  with  hymns;  wo  seek  riches  from  tho  wonder-working 
god."™ 

The  next  hymn  alludes  at  the  beginning  to  PuRhan  in  hi»  character 
of  tutelary  god  of  travellers  (comp.  vL  49,  8 ;  x.  17,  3,  6;  x.  59,  7 ; 
x.  92,  13);  but  it  is  chiefly  occupied  with  the  poet's  aspirations  after 
a  liberal  patron,  and  with  attempts  to  inflame  the  god's  indignation 
against  the  niggards  with  whom  he  considered  himself  to  be  surrounded. 

*™   Vimtttfo  ntpSI.     Professor  Benfcy  follows  Sarins  in  f<w»  in  taking  this  to 
mran    "  offupring   of  thn   cloud "    (jal*-riinoc)ui/ka-/utor   mty  htuya  pnltru).      The 
Indian  eommentator,  however,  assigns  another  muss  to  the  pbrsic  io  v.  fllJ,  1,  wlieru 
it  nan,  and  where  ho  nplaini  it  as  "  tho  mm  of  Prajupnti,  who  at  the  r  i 
senij  forth  from  himself  all  creature*  "  (ri  itixwAaf »  tfUlfi-k^tr  itattkHat  tcrvHh 

itfijott  ,.',  timuk  Prujtipatth  \  latya   frultra).      In  11.  V.  »ni.  t,  15  f.  1 

in  called  limatkana,  the  "  deliverer,"  which  Say  to*  interprets  "deliverer  from  sin" 
jmbuW  nnweAujriY**).  Perhaps  timucho  nepit  means  the  same  thing.  Compare 
fb»  words  ri  U  mumtkantain  rimm-Ao  Ki  •>•/•',  A.V.  vii.  112.  3;  and  mmn  utpml, 
and  tbe  other  similar  phrases  quoted  above  in  p.  62.  la  preparing  my  version  of  tats 
hymn  I  have  hid  tho  aid  of  Bwifoy,  ss  well  as  of  S*ysna. 

rs  Pfofeeeor  Bcnfcy  refer*  here  to  a  preceding  nolo  of  hit  own  on  R.  V.  L  41, 8,  tho 
scsac  of  which  b  ss  follow*  i  "  I  believe  that  this  refers  to  a  practice  which  wastj 
arsons;  ha* bar mi«,  and  even  among  partially  civilised,  races,  of  believing  that  they 
can  compel  their  gods,  by  intuits,  and  by  blowi  inllictnl  on  their  image*,  to  grant 
lurir  daaira,  or  if  this  be  act  accomplished,  of  thinking  that  they  thereby  take  their 
revwaga." 


176 


HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  PUSH  AN. 


tL  S3,  1.  Fayam  u  leu  pathos  pale  rathaih  na  v&jat&taye  |  dhiye 
KM  urnymahi  I  2.  Abhi  no  naryafo  cant  c\ram  prayata-dakthiwtm  | 
vAmam  grihapatim  naya  |  3.  AdiUantom  chid  Sghrint  Ptixhan  dandya 
ehodaya  \  panel  chid  vi  mrada  manah  I  4.  Vi  paiho  tajat&tay*  chinuhi 
t*  mridho  jahi  $adhanlam  ugra  no  dhiyuh  |  6.  Pari  Irindhi  panintlm 
i'Tidayi  l;are  |  athtm  atmabhyam  randhaya  |  6.  Vi  Pithann  drayd 
tuda  patter  iehha  hridi  priyam  |  alhtm  atMnbhyav,  randhaya  |  7.  Arikha 
Aitird  kj-inu  panlnaih  hridayil  hart  \  alhtm  .  .  .  |  8.  Tnm  Ptuhan  brah- 
maehodmim  drum  hibharihi  Oghfine  \  layd  sama*ya  hridoyam  d  rikha 
kikiru  if  inn  |  9.  Yu  Is  ashfrii  gaapaid  tlgXrint  paiutudhani  |  tatyi*  U 
sumnam  imaht  |  10.  Ula  m  gothanim  dhiyam  aivatdm  vdjtudm  ula  | 
np'val  kfinuhi  v\lay«  \ 

"  1.  Puahan,  wc  have  attached  thee,  lord  of  raids,  to  oar  hymn,  as 
:  iot  (is  yoked)  for  the  acquisition  of  food.  2.  Bring  to  us  wealth 
suitable  for  uieu,  und  a  manly  estimable  householder,  who  ahull  bestow 
on  ub  gifts.  3.  Impel  to  liberality,  o  glowing  Pufhan,  even  the  man, 
who  would  fain  bestow  nothing :  soften  the  soul  eren  of  the  niggard. 
4.  Open  up  paths  by  which  we  may  obtain  food  j  slay  our  enemies  ; 
let  our  designs  succeed,  o  glorious  god.  6.  0  wiie  god,  pierce  the 
hearts  of  the  niggards  with  an  awl ;  and  then  make  them  subject  to  us. 
6.  Pierce  thom  with  nn  awl,  a  Puohan;  seek  (for  ns)  that  which  La 
dear  to  the  niggard's  heart ;  and  then  make  them  subject  to  us.  7. 
Penetrate  and  tear  the  hearts  of  the  niggards,  o  wise  god,  and  then 
subject  them  to  u*.  8.  With  that  prayer-stimulating  goad  which  thou 
earnest,  glowing  Pushan,  penetrate  and  tear  tho  heart  of  every  such 
man.  9.  From  that  goad  of  thine,  which  is  furnished  with  leathern 
thongs,*"  and  guides  cattle,  wo  Beck  for  prosperity.  10.  Grant  that 
our  hymn  may  produce  foT  us  cattle,  horses,  food,  for  our  enjoyment 
abundantly." 

tL  54,  I.  Sam  P&than  viduthli  naya  yo  anjasH  'nuidtati  |  yafr  era 
idam  Hi  brant  |  2.  Sam  u  Pithnd  gamemahi  yo  grihun  abfiifdtaii  \  ime 
era  Hi  cha  brutal  |  3.  P&thnai  ehakram  na  rithyati  no  kuio  ava  padyate  | 
no  atya  vyathate  pacik  |  4.  To  atmai  hacithd  \idhat  na  lam  PiihS  'pi 
tr.ri'hyaU  |  prathamv  vindaU  rami  |  5.  Path*  y''h  amt  <tu  nah  PiUhtl 
rakthatu  arvaUh  |  P&thd  rdjafit  tanolit  >uth  |  6.  Puihann  anu  pra 


"»  8e»  Bobtlingk  nutl  Ruth,  :r.  ptpula. 


HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  POSHAN. 


177 


tJ5»  yajamUnatya  awratah   |  aamtilaih  ttiivatam  ula   |  ".  ,1/Ii'i'r  ntiat 
mUk'iih  rithal  mdfom  tarn  iiiri  leeafe  \   aUia  ariahfibhir  a  yahi  |  8. 

Titfani  P&ihanaiit  rayam   iryam  anaahfa-ttdaaam   \    HunaUt 
Ima/u  |  9.  P&ahan  lava  rrate  rayaih  nx  rithytma  hidOchaua  \  afvturag  te 
iha  tmari  |   10.  Pari  I*Qaf>d  pwtuUid  total  dmlhiUu  dxhhintim  \  pwuir 
no  nathfem  ujatu  | 

"  l-  May  we,  o  Pusluw,  meet  with  a  wise  mnn  who  'hill  straightway 
as,  ami  say  *so  it  is.',;4  2.  liny  wo  meet  with  ITmhao,*1*  who 
shall  point  oat  a  house,  and  shall  say  *  it  is  this.'  3.  I'lishaa'a  Wo*  !  U 
not  shattered,  nor  docs  its  box  fall,  nor  is  its  rim  broken.  4.  Puslmn  b 
not  hostile  to  the  mnn  who  oft'ors  him  an  oblation  ;  that  ninn  is  tho  first  to 
obtain  wealth.  S.  May  Pfls&MHl  (blfaffl  our  kim-;  mny  ho  protect  our 
horses;  may  he  give  us  food.  C.  Puxhan,  follow  the  kine  of  the  wor- 
shipper who  offers  soroa-libations,  and  of  us  when  wc  do  the  same  7. 
Let  nothing  be  lost,  or  injured,  or  fall  into  a  pit ;  but  como  to  us  with 
(the  cows)  all  safe.  8.  We  seek  after  Pii-dum  who  hrurs  us,  the  alert, 
VDO  never  loses  property,  who  is  lord  of  wealth.  'J.  ITitlim,  may  we, 
through  thy  appointment,  never  (all  into  calamity ;  we  arc  here,  thy 
worshipper*.  1 0.  Hay  Pushan  stretch  out  his  right  hand  far  and  wide, 
and  drive  hither  our  lost  property.1' 

ri.  55,  I.  hhi  riih  rimutho  nttp&d  Qghfina  taih  uuh/lcahai  \  rathir 
rit/uya  no  bkava  |  2.  RathUamaUt  hpardditmrn  li&naih  radhato  maLih  \ 
riyak  aakhAyam  \mahs  |  3.  Jltiyo  ihurU  'ti  uyhriat  iwnh  rtiiir  ojAica  \ 
dh\ta(a  dbivato  utlhn  |  4.  Pushnnam  nu  njilsvam  upa  ttoihflma  vGjinam  | 
mmanr  yo  j&rah  uthyate  |  5.  Jfatur  did/n'tbum  abraraA  aratur  jtirth 
iriifotm  nah  |  Ikr&td  /ndrasya  lalAd  mama  [  0.  A  ajutah  Paahaiam  ratha 
niifiaabk&a  Ujanairiynm  \  devam  vahantu  bilhraiak  | 

"  1.  Cuinu  hither,  glowing  god,  the  deliverer,  may  wo  meet;  he  the 
charioteer  of  our  rite.  2.  Wo  seek  riches  from  thee,  the  most  skilful 
of  charioteers,  thu  god  with  braided  hair,  the  lord  of  great  wealth,  and 
our  friend.  3.  Thou  art  a  stream  of  opulence,  a  heap  of  riches,  o  glow- 
ing deity,  drawn  by  goats,  and  tho  friend  of  overy  devout  contemjdator. 

™  SSyarja  say*  that  thu  vsrse  it  to  be  mtiifcrrcd  by  a  rain  socking  far  lest  pr 

{tvu\(a-d>i*—fn  amrietiktla    rl*j  jtiftym],  and  icfrr»   to   Gpliy*  Stitfia,  iii,  9.      Il# 

•mkikUad*  Uic  wi»«  man  of  oik  »bo  »b:'.  th«  mode  of  recovering  Mrh 

properly. 
*"  So*  P.  note  in  Ueo.     Suyioa  explains:  "  Miy  ne  by  [the  favour 

li-in  suet  will,  ■  man  who  shall  shew  as  tfw  bush*-  iu  vbkb  <wr  lost  esllk  an." 

12 


178 


HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  rfJSIIA.N. 


4.  Let  us  praise  Pushau,  the  god  drawn  by  goats,  the  giver  of 
who  i»  called  the  lover  of  hi»  sister.*1*  5.  I  address  tho  husband  of  his 
mother ; ni  may  ho  hear  us,  the  lover  of  his  sister,  the  brother  of  Indra, 
and  my  friend.  6.  May  the  surefooted**  goats,  supporting  Pushan, 
god  who  visits  mankind,  bring  him  hither  upon  his  chariot." 

vi.  V,  I.  )  ,/j  tnam  adideiati  " karamlhad"  Hi  Piuhanam  \  tut 
derail  Hdiic  |  2.  Via  gha  la  rathltarmh  aakhyu  talpuiir  yuja  I 
vritrSni  jighnate  \  $  (Kit.  ii.  C).  Uta  ad<ih  paruthe  gavi  tQrai  thakraA 
hiranyayam  \  *i  airayad  rotK\t«mah  |  4.  Yad  adya  tri  pxnuhfuta  bra- 
puma  intra  manlumah  \  tot  tu  no  manuta  fidUya  |  5.  Imam  oh*  na 
gttMhanarh  liitaye  tUfmdho  ganam  |  Unit  I'd  than*  a*i irtUah  |  6.  .1  (t 
txattim  \tnaht  Hreaghilm  upucamm  \  adya  eha  tartatutaye  ttai  cha  tarra- 
tntayt  | 

**  1.  By  him  who  designates  Fushan  by  laying  'this  is  tho  eater  of 
meal  and  butter,'  the  god  cannot  be  described.  2.  Indra  too,  the  lord 
of  the  good,  tho  most  skilful  of  charioteers,  seeks  to  slay  his  enemies  in 
company  with  his  friend.  3.  And  this  most  skilful  charioteer  drove 
that  golden  wheel  of  the  sun  through  the  speckled  cloud."  4.  Accom- 
plish for  us,  o  wonder- working  and  wine  deity,  that  desire  which  we 
shall  address  to  tlioc  to-day.  S.  And  direct  this  exploring  band  of  ours 
to  the  attuiuineut  of  their  object :  for,  Pushan,  thou  are  renowned  afar. 
6.  "Wo  seek  thy  blessing,  which  drives  away  calamity,  and  beings 
opulence  near,  for  full  prosperity  to-day,  and  for  full  prosperity  to- 
morrow." 

vi.  57,  1.  Iitdrd  nu  Pu/lanu  •""  tayath  Aakhyaya  svattaye  hurema  r&ja- 
tataye  |  2.  Somam  any  ah  upiUadat  ptUact  chamvoh  imtaxn  \  karambham  *' 

■*•  (Mint,  according  tu  Sfiyarja;  and  SaryS.  accordiug  to  Prof.  Roth.  St*  the  \*A 
vers*  of  vi.  «8,  below. 

ri  Sfiyana  render*  m«'i*l  by  mimtatryah  rolrttf,  "  the  eonstructroM,  KigBt" 

*n  lioth,  t,t>.  says  inVr»"M<i  perhaps  meuiis  "  »ich«t  mflnUml ,  "  WlMOB  r»nder» 
44  harnessed ; "   Suyaya  ni/ra/Aya  lambadhya  hartarah.     All  seems  gurm  work. 

■"*  Frof.  Kftih  translates  this  versa  as  follows  in  bis  Illustrations  of  to*  Nirukie, 
p.  19  :  "  Er  bat  durt  durvli  den  kransen  Wolkrnxug  d«r  Sonne  guldcnes  Rod  bin- 
dotchgclrrnkt,  dcr  treflichc  Kulirmunn  (Pnsehan).  •'  tin  has  (raided  the  golden  wheel 
of  the  sun  through  lh«  citrM  train  uf  elouds,  th«  eaccllont  drirer  (t'oshsa)."  la  his 
Lexicon  he  readers  the  word  parutha  by  "  variegated,"  sfA 

**<>  Compare  iii.  67,  2,  and  vL  17.  II,  where  POshan  and  VUhnq  are  said  to  have 
purified  three  bowls  of  8otas  for  ludra  (fusAa  TuAgm  (rrsiid  riimri  dhatam  rpfra- 
Aesaas  mmlir*m  sw'w  aaawi). 

■*  iii.  42  7. 


HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  PUSIIAN. 


170 


anyak  ithhati  \  3.  Aj6k  onyaiya  vaknayo  harl  anyatya  sambkritu  | 
tabky'nh  rritlrtiti  jighnatt  |  4.  Yad  Indro  anayad  rito  ntah'ir  apo  tft« 
thantamak  |  Ulra  PQthO  'bhaeot  uukil  |  5.  TAbi  Puthuah  tumatim 
tag  Aft  rrikih&tya  pra  toyAm  iva  |  Indratya  cka  A  rabhAmahe  |  6.  Ut 
POtkonalk  yvtamahe  aihlidn  iva  tfirathik  |  mahyai  Indrafh  mattayt  | 

"  1.  Let  us  invoke  Indra  and  Piishan  to  be  our  friend*,  to  blew  us 
■ad  to  grant  n*  food.  2.  Of  these  two  gods,  the  one  (Inclra)  comes  to 
drink  the  soma  poured  out  from  the  ladles,  and  the  other  (Pii.dian) 
desires  meal  and  butter.  3.  Gonto  convey  the  one,  and  two  harnessed 
brown  horses  the  other  :  home  by  tbim  he  seeks  to  slay  his  enemies. 
4.  When  the  most  vigorous  Indrn  brought  tho  groat  flowing  waters, 
PGshan  was  there  with  him.  5.  Wo  lay  hold  of  that  goodwill  of 
Piishan  and  of  Indre,  as  we  seize  the  branch  of  a  tree.  6.  Wo  stir  up 
>n  and  Indrn  to  bring  ns  great  prosperity,  as  a  charioteer  shakos 
his  r.  i 

W,  1  (  =  S.V.  i.  74).  S-ukraSt  U  tmyad  yajataA  U  anyad  eMUrQpa 
ahan'i  dynvr  irAti  |  eitrAk  hi  tnnyAh  ovnti  tvadkAco  bhadrA  is  Pithan* 
iha  rAtir  oitu  \  2.  Ajntrah  paiupQh  riljapottyo  dhiyaStjmro  bhumnt 
nht  arpitah  |  tukfrAm  PSthd  MhirAm  udrarirrijal  $anck*k$k6*o  hhu- 
tanA  dtrah  \yatt  |  S.  Tit  it  Pithan  w/Jro  antah  umudrt  hiritmyaylr 
antarihhe  ckaranti  \  labfiir  yAti  dutyatt  mryatya  Ititxena  kritu°*  trtxah 
iekhamAnah  |  4.  PS*kS  tubandkur  dieah  S  prithityAk  ifatpaiir  mnghatu 
tUamararthAh  |  y«*  devdto  aJaduh  SSryAyai  kAmetta  kritam  (acatait 
nmrkam  | 

"  I.  One  of  thine  (appearancee)  is  bright,  the  other  is  renoralilc ;  thy 
two  periods  are  diverse;  thou  art  like  Dyaus:  for,  o  sclf-dep. m 
god,  thou  cxerciscst  all  wondrous  powers.  0  Pushau,  ouy  thy  gifta 
be  bcncnccEt.  2.  Borne  by  goats,  guardian,  of  cattle,  lord  of  a  houae 
overflowing  with  plenty,  an  inspirer  of  the  soul,  abiding  within  tho 
whole  creation,  Piishan  has  grasped  his  relaxed  goad ;  the  god  movea 
onward  beholding  all  creatures.  3.  With  those  golden  ships  of  thine, 
which  soil  across  the  aerial  ocean,  thou  acteat  as  the  messenger  of  tho 
San,  desiring  food,  o  god,  subdued  by  lore.  4.  Puslian  is  tho  closo 
associate  of  [or  the  bond  uniting?]  heaven  and  earth,  the  lord  of 
nourish  mint,  the  BM  if  wondrous  lustre.     Him,  vigorous  and 

rapid,  subdued  by  love,  the  gods  gave  to  Surya." 

•■  8m  aril  tme,  ami  ri.  49,  8,  where  the  nnc  phrase  occurs. 


180 


HTMXS  ADDRESSED  TO 


In  ii.  10,  Soma  and  Pfuhnn  aro  celebrated  conjointly  as  the 
rators  of  wealth,  of  heaven  and  earth,  and  the  born  preservers  of  the 
!,  and  at  mado  by  the  gods  the  centre-point  of  immortality  (.Sewta- 
pvthagA  janana  raytmfig)  jananti  duo  jananii  prithiryiik  \  jtitau  ritnuy* 
b&uvanatya gopau  drnlh  alrinvmn  amfiUuya  utibhim,  verse  1) ;  they  hide 
the  hated  darkness  (imau  tamdihii gtthatdm  ajwihfhu,  ibid.  2);  they  impel 
the  chariot  with  coven  wheels  which  traverses  the  air,  but  is  not  all- 
pervadinp,  which  revolves  in  all  direction  is  jFokad  by  the  mind,  and 
with  Horcn  rays  (SomflpQthaQi  rajaw  rim&na/K  tapt-ocfialmih 
rat  ham  acisramincam  \  viihuvritam  rnatuuH  yujyamunam  tarn  jinratho 
vruhand  paiuharaimim,  verse  3) ;  tho  one  of  them  (P&diaa)  is  said  to 
make  hi:-  abode  iu  (hf  bflftTBD,  the  other  (Soma)  on  the  earth  and  in  tho 
air  ('iiti  ,mye  tadanaM  thakre  uehthu  priihieyam  <t*yo  *dhi  anlariktht, 
verse  4) ;  the  one  (Soma)  to  have  generated  |]  I  «,  and  the  other 

(Pushan)  to  move  onward  beholding  the  universe (riieSni anyo  Mi, 
•  a  vitvnm  anyo  ahhichakthnnah  eti,  verse  5). 

In  the  concluding  verse  of  R.V.  i.  188,  the  poot  tttBl  I'f^han  that 
seeks  with  gentle  hymns  to  attract  his  lUmtfffll,  and  that  he  does  ne 
treat  the  god  with  haughtiness  or  contempt,  or  reject  his  friendship  (•  , 
ttC  tat  ri  I  nil  ah  i  utiniirb/iir  duiwn  xiidUubhih  |  na  hi  tvd  Pathann  alimony* 
rrjhrine  na  te  tahhyam  apahnucc). 

In  x.  20,  he  is  said  to  bo  the  folfillcr  of  prayers,  and  the  stimulator 
of  sages  (maftnam  cha  itfdiflMfl  r  i/n-'niiiui  rha  <id'uar»mt  vene  4);  to  bo 
the  promoter  *'  of  sacrifices,  to  impel  the  horses  of  chariots,  to  be  a 
rishi  friendly  to  men,  and  a  protecting  friend  of  tho  wise  man  {pratyw- 
dhir  yajn&n&m  chahayo  ralhunum  |  rithih  ta  yv  mannrhito  vij 
yavayal-takhah,  vcTBC  5),  the  unshaken  friend,  born  of  old,  of  CTexy 
suppliant  {viiratya  tirthinah  iakh&  tanojAh  anapathynttih). 

«•  Prof.  Roth,  *.«.  thinks  Iho  word  pratytrdK,  which  oocars  alio  la  x.  1,  6,  bmt 
mean  "  entitled  u>  tnc  half  of,"  "h»Ting  sa  equal  thai*  in."  Compart  «A',y-*rJA«- 
yiy'run  abort,  p.  17U,  and  note. 


181 


section  xni. 


U8HAS. 

ThiB  goddess,  who  corresponds  to  the  'Hoi*  (JEolio  Awwc)  of  the 
(in.vka,  and  to  the  Aurora  of  tho  Latins,  is  a  favourite  object  of  oele- 
hrutioa  with  tho  poets  of  tho  Itig-vedn,  and  tin1  hymns  addressed  to 
her  are  among  the  most  beautiful — if  not  the  most  beautiful — in  tbe 
entire  collection.  The  following  are  tho»e  which  arc  ?ju  •  -ially  dedi- 
cated to  her  honour,  lix.,  i.  18;  i.  49;  i.  92:  i.  118;  i.  12.'i;  i.  121; 
iii.  61 ;  ir.  51  ;  iv.  52;  t.  79;  r.  80;  vi.  64  ;  vi.  65  ;  vii.  75-fll  ; 
&  172.  She  is  also  urroked  or  referred  to  in  numerous  ■■  trees. 

To  give  an  idea  of  the  manner  in  which  Uahas  is  described  and  cclo- 
brak-d,  1  shull  quote  the  larger  portion  of  three  hymns,  of  which  the 
second  and  third  arc  mora  remarkable  than  the  first  (introduce. 
sad  there  some  parallel  passages  from  other  quarters),  and  I  shall 
afterwards  give  a  summary  of  tho  principal  attributes  and  functions 
which  ore  attributed  to  her. 

(1)  Three  hi/mnt  to  Uthat. 

;,  1.  Saha  rdmena  nak  Utkc  ri  uchha  dnhitar  Litnk  |  taha  dyvtu- 
ntna  hrihalA  vibhavari  rdya  deri  dasratl  |  2.  Aitatalir  oomatlr  tiiva- 
em  i  Jo  hh&ri  chyatanUt  uutvvi  |  adiraya  prati  na  ivmrUak  tuhai  tkoda 
raiko  auiykenum  |  3.  UvUta  uekuk  tichhilt  cka  nu  </«■!  j\r&  ratkdnnm  ', 
yt  o*yHk  a<haranc*h*  dmlkrire  aamudre  us  irarasyacah  |  4.  Uika  yt  U 
yumtthu  yunjate  Ptatto  idmi'ia  tfirayak  |  attrdkti  tat  kantak  etk/im  kaa- 
tat*mo  mima  grimiti  urinom  |  5.  A  gh*  yveher*  einarl  uek'ik  ySti  pra- 
bhunjati  \/ar*ytmtt  trijanam  p<tdra4  iyaU  *t  piilayati  pthhtnah  |  6.  Vi 
jrd  tfijati  mimmu  ft  erikinah  padam  no  rtti  odoti  |  vayo  naiU  tt  pop- 
tuituah  litaU  tyiukfau  cSjmirali  |  [i.  121,  12  —  ri.  61,  4.  Ut  U  r.iyai 
ekid  xtuattr  njnptan  narai  tha  ye  pttubhfijo  ryiukfau  |  boo  also  i.  48,  9]. 

7.  £tha  ayukta  par&vttfak.  tiryaeyodayanud  cdki  \  iatam  ratkebkih 
uabkngd  uskah  iymk  ri  yfiti  abki  muHUtkan  |  8.  Viham  **yrik  mud  ma 


182 


HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  USIIAS. 


chahhate  j'ayaj  jyotuh  krinoli  t  Stuart  |  a  pa  dceeho  magfanl  duhitd  ditah 
tuhdh  uchhad  apa  tridhak  |  9.  Uthah  J  bhuhi  bhinund  chandrena  duhiiar 
divah  |  Hxahanft  bhikri  tomabhyaih  taubhayaih  cyutkkantl  ditiihfiihu  | 
10.  Vikatya  hi  juanam  prananam  tv*  r»  y«4  itthhtui  Huuiri  |  #«  no 
ralfona  bfihata  cibhAvari  irudhi  chil/amayhe  haram  |  [i.  49,  I.  L'tho 
bhttdrtbhir  <!  gahi  dicai  chid  rochanCid  adki  \  rahantu  arvnaptat&k  up* 
tvi  torn  mo  tjriham  |  2.  Suprintaa  tukhaik  ratham  yam  ndhyattkiih  t 

;  tena  tuiracaia>/i  janam  prSia  adya  duhilar  ditah  |  vi.  65,  2.  FY 

tad  yai/ur  arunayuybhir  aivaii  ehilrafo  bMnti  tuhatal  tlmndrarmihak  [ 

'',  6.  Prali  dyntiindm  anuh/tio  aiviii  chitr&h  adriiramt  tuAaj** 

(ah  |  ydti  iubhrA  viirapiia  ralhena  |].     i.  48,  12.  VidvOn  stadn  d 

vaka  tomapUaye  antarikthud  tuhat  Ivam  | 

"  1.  Dawn  on  us  with  prosperity,  o  Ushas,  daughter  of  the  Ay, 
with  great  glory,  o  luminous  and  bountiful  goddess,  with  riches.  2. 
(These  dawns)  bringing  horses  and  cows,  and  all-bestowing,  havo 
oftentimes  hastened  to  shine.***  Awnko  fur  mo  joyful  voices  (or  hymns)1*' 
0  Ushas,  and  scad  us  the  w.  ilth  of  (he  magnificent.  3.  Ushas  baa 
dawned  (before) ;  let  her  now  dawn  (again),  the  goddces  who  impels 
our  chariots,  which  at  her  arrivals  aro  borne  forward,  like  wealth- 
111  in  the  ocean.9"  4.  Knrjrn,  tho  chief  of  his  race,  here  celebrates 
the  name  of  those  wise  men  who  at  thy  approaches,  o  Ushas,  direct 
tiioir  thoughts  to  liberality.  &.  Like  an  active  woman,  Ushns  advances 
cherishing*7  (ull  things) ;  she  hastens  on  arousing  footed  creatures,*"  and 

*••  Tho  word  t<o*tjir*  it  «o  wmlnrad  hy  Una  fay.  Sea  liii  translation,  la  loco,  sail 
'■•ary  lo  the  Sannfiola,  »,rt».  u»/>,  and  r<w,  »tiu  i  Ri-th  •  r.  tmk.  % 

***  Ikofcy  renders  aunritZb  hero  by  "Hcrrliahktiten,"  'glorious  thing*;'  but  in 
i.  02,  7,  and  i.  113,  If,  ho  translates  the  same  word  by  "  beautiful  hymn.-."  A  note 
on  it  by  Professor  Aufreeht  will  be  found  further  on. 

*•»  Tho  sense  of  tWMn  in  this  olausn  it  not  very  dear.  Prof.  Wilson  renders 
sfttr  Siyana:  "  obariota,  which  are  harnessed  st  her  earning;  at  tbots  who  sn 
desirous  of  wo«lth  tend  ablpa  to  sea."  Prof.  Bcnfcy  esplaint:  "carts,  which  roll  at 
her  apprimoh,  like  wcalth-seckcre  in  the  sen  i "  i.e.,  iu  he  adds  in  a  note  ■  Tbo 
waggons  full  of  wealth  are  driven  hither  by  the  dawn  ;  thoy  arc  so  full  a*  to  rod  sad 
•  a  inn  about."     It  i»  ditBeult  to  tee  how  thia  shush  (tan  be  extracted  from  the  word*. 

"'  Suyana  nukoi  prabhunjau  =  prakarsKen-i  aitrvtim  putaymtii.  Bcnfcy  renders 
it  "ruling,"  and  Roth  aw,  "Ttttdwisg  SSfl 

**■  Professors  Bcnfcy  and  llullcnsen  (Orient  and  Occident,  ii.  4W)  both  expUia 
jtrrajfariti  h«re  in  the  nenie  of  "sotting  in  motion,"  or  '*  arouiuig,"  the  fonuer  dcriv. 
ing  it  from  tlio  root  jar,  "to  hasten,"  and  the  latter  from  jar  =  gar,  "  to  wake," — 
See  Bollrau-u'i  reraurkt  in  pp.  Ut-4U.  la  other  plaeta,  at  we  •hall  see,  awl  u  bo 
allows,  it  uiu>t  bt  rendered  "ranking  •  M." 


HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  USHAS. 


183 


makes  the  birds  fly  aloft.  6.  Sho  sends  forth  both  tho  active  and  Ihe 
beggars  (to  their  occupation) ;  lively,  she  loves  not  to  stand  still ;  tho 
flying'  birds  no  longer  rest  after  thy  dawning,  o  bringer  of  food.** 
[i.  124,  12.  The  birds  fly  up  from  their  nests,  and  men  sucking  food, 
kavc  their  homes.]  7.  Sho  has  yoked  (her  horses)  from  tho  remote 
rifling-place  of  tho  sun ;  this  auspicious  Ushas  advances  towards  men 
with  a  hundred  chariots.  8.  Everything  Unit  moves  bows  down  before 
hi-r  plane© ;  Ihe  active  goddess  creates  light ;  by  hor  appearance  tho 
magnificent  daughter  of  the  sky  drives  away  our  haters ;  Ushas  has 
repelled  our  enemies,  9.  Shine  forth,  "Ushas,  daughter  of  the  sky  with 
brilliant  radiance,  bringing  to  us  abundant  prosperity,  dawning  upon 
our  devotions.  10.  In  thec,  when  thou  dnwnost,  o  lively  goddess,  is  the 
life  and  tho  breath  of  all  creatures ;  resplendent  on  thy  massive  car  hear 
our  invocation,  [i.  49,  1.  Come,  Ushas,  even  from  the  light  of  the  sky, 
by  auspicious  (paths) ;  let  the  ruddy  (horses)  bring  thee  to  tho  house 
of  the  offerer  of  soma.  2.  Protect  to-day,  o  Ushas,  daughter  of  the 
sky,  the  prosperous  man  with  that  beautifully  formed  and  pleasant 
chariot  on  which  thou  standest  vi.  66,  2.  They  went  apart  wilh 
their  ruddy-yoked  horses;  the  Dawns  on  the  luminous  ears  ebioo 
brilliantly,  vii.  75,  G.  Tho  bright  and  ruddy  steeds  were  beheld 
bearing  onward  the  shining  Ushas.  The  lustrous  goddess  mores  in  a 
chariot  beautified  with  all  sorts  of  omameuts J.  i.  48,  12.  Ushas, 
bring  all  the  gods  to  drink  our  soma." 

i.  92,  1  (-S.Y.  ii.  1105).  Etah  «  (yah  UtktuaA  Mum  akrata  frfftf 
V«ft<  rajtuo  m  htuinum  an/at*  \  nithkrinrtnuk  ayttdhanira  rf«4rwA?ar<»A 
prali  fSco  aruthlr  yanti  muiarah  j  2(—  S.V.  iL  1106).  Ud  apaptann 
ar-MfdA  hk&nan  rritlul  nr&yuj'o  arwklr  oak  ayuhhata  \  akram  tutidi* 
rtfun&ni  pHrralM  ru&antam  bkunum  onuhlr  aiiirayuh  |  3  (— S.V.  ii. 
1107).  Archamti  ndrlr  apoto  ma  rt»A/iMi'*  tamdnttt*  yojantna  A  parH- 
tatak  |  itharh  tahanlih  tuirila  tuddmate  viitd  id  aha  yajamanaya  mm- 
raU  |  4.  Ailhi  paUmn  eapaU  nritar  iva  apornuU  uJukah  utrtta  bar- 
jakam  |  jyotir  vitcatmai  bhuzanaya  £rr*ra/i  giro  na  rrajam  vi  uthuh 

*■*  ti\f1*1t«Jl  it  explsintd  by  Tiita,  Nir.  ii.  2a.  ami  tii.  8,  by  amumifi ;  and  by 
8»t»o*  on  R.V.  i.  3. 10.  by  -mvwt-kriyiHHl,  •«  mitttroi*  of  rites  pn— Bring  fosd." 
These  states  of  (he  word  seem  koccrtoin. 

««•  Coeapure   i.    I2i,  51  :  piim  WA>  m/ho   •Pty4,y  jf.'tm  Jsjftl  otfili  pru 

latum  |  ••  The  moUivr  of  tbc  cows  bm  displayed  her  signal  ia  (ho  eastern  part  of  lU 
watery  firaasacui." 


1  B-t 


I   N"S  ADDRESSED  TO  USDAS. 


ar«w  iasiah  |   [i,  123,  10.  Kanyev*  tancS  iaiadand  t*hi  devi  Aran 
iyattha/noanm  I  mSnH  yuvatih  puratldd  trir  raJuhdinsi  Lriautke 

tiihatl  |  11.  Sutauidid  mdtrimrithfera  yothd  Ccit  titnram  hn'nuikd 
drib  kam  |  i.  124,  4  (=Nirukta,  ir.  1G).  Upo  adarii  iundhyuc*  na 
tahiha  nodhdh  irdvir  ahrita  f/rtytgi  \  tiJMMJ  na  nit.it  o  Ivdh**, 
Mmttamd  iigiit  pututr  eywhiuum  |  7  (  =  Nir.  iii.  5).  Ahhr«-' 
$ah  tli  protUhl  garttdrug  iva  IMIMjrf  lilWlfBffim'"  |  jdyeva  paly* 
awtliiih  usluift  hearer  a  ni  rinile  apstth  \  v.  80,  5.  Juki  inbhrd  na  Unto 
vMud  urdhtwa  mutt  driiaye  no  tut  hut  J  vi.  64,  -.  .trir  raluhnh  kriautk* 
tumbhamumi  deei  raehamilnd  mahobhih  \  compare  r.  80.  40].  i.  92,  5. 
Pratt  arrhih  ruind  twydh  adar&i  ri  tuhfhate  htidhate  krithnvn  aihcam  m  | 
twtruih  ns  peio  ttdathethu  anjan  ckitraih  divo  duhitu  bhdnvn  ah  ft  | 
fi.  At&rishma  tamanat  ptiram  anya  whuh  i^oli  |  iriy* 

chhando  na  emayate  cibhdtl  sitpratikd  taiuaaiiMfi ya  ajlgah  |    7.  BhdtcatX 
nefri  miuritdndm  divah  tlavo  duhitu  (Ma-melliih  \  prajdvalo  nritato  aita- 
budhy&n  utho  goagrdn  ujm  md$i  vajdn  |  8.  Uahaa  tarn  aiydii  yai*»*m\ 
meJraih  ddsaprarargaih   rayim  akahidhyam  \  tudalhtaM  trarani  yJ 
bh&ti  rdjapraiHtd  tubhagr  briknittiim  I    9,   PSfrflB*  itvt  Hw—J  'Uitit 
&Ayn  prailchl  chahhur  ur  ■'•!i  |  tiicaifijircM  charau  bodhayanti 

viiuuya  r&eham  acidttt  manSyoh  |  10.  Puuah  punttr  jdyamdnd  m  pitrdnl 
tamdnttnt  rarnnm  abhi  inmbhamand  |  itagknlta  kpitnur  eijah  umtsukma 
martmya  det\  jarni/uuli  nyuh  |  11.  Fy&rnatl  dito  anlin  tibadhi  upa  ita- 
t&rato  aanutnr  yuyoli  |  praminall  mauuhjfi  yugnni  yoskd  jdratya  cha- 
lahviH  ribfiiUi  |  [i.  115,  2.  Sftryo  dtrlm  U»ha*hcifi>  rochamfin&m  maryo 
na  yoth'im  abhi  nti  pair  hut  \  rii.  7.J,  -I.  JJiio  du/uta  hhuraaasg*  patni  J 
MKliofl  tOn/iiiya  yonhfi].  i.  92,  12.  Painn  na  chitrfi  tnlhrufl 
prnth&uQ  lindhur  na  ktkodah  uni'jti  vi  air  nit  |  aminatl  dairytini  rratdni 
turytttya  thtti  raiuiibhir  driinna  \  13.  U*ha*  tat  ehitran*  ubkira  «M< 
bhyaw  e'ljintrati  |  yena  foktiiu  rim  t'liutyitm  aha  dhi'imahe  \  14.  Uiko  adyiha 
gwmttt  oirdrati  ribhdrari  |  rvtad  atma  ri  uchha sunrit<i\at%  \  la.  YuUhra 
hi  to/in) rati  aitun  adya  arunitn  uihah  \  atha  no  rtfrd  taulhagfini  avaha  | 


mj»«r«  R.V.  Ix.  98,  20. 

,M  Comptrc  ir.  (1,  9  :   G  \lrdnhro*  ta*\ 

t/nk  |  "Tbe  Lrijlit  Im  ill  Dairta  OODMaUng  tfn  lilarli  ntyawitli  th«ir  rndiant  badita." 

•J*  Ooi  i,  .;:    OMdM   pi  «*4j/**  yucali*  pu**rbhuh  |  •«  Th«  yoothftil 

(goddam)  bora  anew,  hu  *liono  forili  ou  liijjli "  iii  01,  1 :  I\irani  atrvi  ftr^nif 
jnn*mihir  jr«  tratoSt  charui  \  "Tbou,  u  ji>ildc«,  old,  (tad  yet)  young,  viaa, 
isvvMt  at  thy  "ill." 


flTMN'S  ADDRESSED  TO  tSlIAS. 


:  -.-■ 


"  1 .  These  Dawns  have  becomo  conspicuous ;  they  display  their 
Intra  in  too  eastern  hemisphere;  like  bold  warriors  drawing  forth 
thoir  weapons,  the  ruddy  mother-cows  advance.  2.  Tho  rosy  beams 
have  flashul  up  spontanea  u»ly  ;  tlwy  have  yoked  the  self- yoked  ruddy 
cows.  Tho  Dawns,  as  of  old,  have  brought  us  consciousness ;  the  red 
cow*  have  assumed  a  brilliant  lustre.  3.  Like  women  active  in  theis 
occupations,  they  shine  from  afar  along  a  common  track,  bringing  sus- 
tenance to  the  pious  and  liberal  worshipper,  and  all  things  to  the  man 
who  offers  libations  of  soma.  4.  Usba*,  like  a  dancer,  puts  on  her  gay 
attire;  she  displays  her  bosom  as  a  cow  it*  udder:  creating  light  for 
all  tho  world,  she  has  dissipated  the  darkness,  as  cuttle  (abandon)  their 
stall."4  [i.  123,  10.  Like  a  maid  triumphing***  in  her  (beautiful) form, 
thou,  goddess,  sd  van  cost  to  meet  the  god  who  seeks  after  thee  (the  sun) ; 
amiling,  youthful,  and  respU-ndunt,  thou  unveilest  thy  bosom  in  front. 
II.  Liko  a  fair  girl  adorned  by  her  in  »ther,  thou  duplaycst  thy  body  to 
the  beholder,  i.  124,  4.  Bba  has  been  beheld  liko  the  bosom  of  a  bright 
maiden.*"  Like  Nodhas,1*'  she  has  revealed  things  that  we  lore. 
Awaking  the  sleepers  liko  an  inmate  of  tho  house,  she  has  come,  the 
most  perpetual  of  all  the  females  who  havo  returned.  7.  As  a  woman 
who  has  no  brother  appears  in  presence  of  (another)  man,  as  a  man 
mounted  on  a  chariot  goes  forth  in  pursuit  of  wealth,  as  a  loving  wife 
shows  herself  to  hor  husband,  so  does  Uebas,  as  it  were,  smiling, 
reveal  her   form.*"     v.  80,  6.  She  displays  her   person  like  a  fair 


*•*  "As  cattle  of  their  own  accord  go  quickly  to  their  own  cowpea" — Sung*. 
*•  As  oawi  opea  their  stall ' ' — Deals*.    See  hU  note  in  loco. 

«■»  TVs  word  so  readorod  it  /as'mtf  i»S. — Syyaga  explains  it  "  becoming  tuenifurt." 
Tb*  word,  bowcrer,  «*  appear*  from  tho  context,  aa  well  ai  other  postages  in 
It  octwt,  L  33.  13,  i.  116,  2;  i.  M4,v;  L  Hl,»;  ril  n,  l ;  ui.  lot,  U .  x. 
120,  6,  has  nideady  Ihe  aeasc  assigned  to  it  by  Rota,  io  Illuu.  of  Kir.  p.  83,  where 
ha  reader*  it  by  "  triusnphinj:,"  io  i  33,  13,  aod  x.  HO,  6.  In  tho  passage  befure  us 
hi!  makes  it  mean  "ithfinglllahsfl  by  beauty."  Boufcy  explain*  it  by  "  triuanphins;  " 
la  L  33,  13,  *nd  i.  116,  •.'.  Hi*  translation  of  tb*  R.V.  data  not  extend  beyond  tbe 
.  bran  of  tb 

*•  Sirana,  fuDowinff  Villa,  explains  Jwidkyure  «■  r«£sA«4,  as  tho  "rays  on  lb* 
breast  of  tbc  sun,"  or  u  "the  breast  ef  a  particular  white  water  bird."  Roib,  Mart. 
ol  Nir   p-  t«,  trsnilatr*  "  as  the.  breast  if  a  pure  urjjio." 

«•"  This  ia  tb*  nam*  of  a  Rishi.  Roth  tbinlu  it  may  be  an  apptlUuiva  bora. 
MisDar,  Trana.  of  li-V.  i.  p.  10?,  thinks  it  may  have  tho  gcuctsl  moaning  of  poet. 

*"  Moth,  Must,  of  Nir.  p.  1Z,  say*  "  Tb*  seaae  of  Ibo  verse  appears  to  be :  "sis 
brotucricsa  aiaiden,  who  after  bar  talker's  death  has  bo  longer  any  bona*,  turns  Don 


186 


HTMXS  ADDRESSED  TO  U8HA8. 


woman,  like  one  rising  out  of  the  water  in  which  she  has  boon  bathing. 
?L  <H, 2.  Thau,  full  of  brightness,  displayest  thy  bosom,  o  goddess,  shin- 
ing in  thy  glory],  i.  92,  5.  Her  bright  my  has  betn  perceived;  it  ex- 
tends and  pierces  the  block  abyss.  The  daughter  of  the  Sky  has  assumed 
a  brilliant  glow,  like  the  decorations  of  the  sacrificial  post  on  festivals. 
6.  We  have  crossed  over  thin  darkness;  Fshas  dawning  restores  con- 
sciousness; radiant,  she  smiles  like  o  flatterer  seeking  his  own  advan- 
tage ;  fair  in  Iter  aspect,  she  has  awakened  all  creatures  to  cheerful- 
ness. 7.  The  shining  daughter  of  the  bkies,  leader  of  cheerful  voices 
(or  hymns),38*  baa  Lieu  luudcd  by  the  Uutumus.  Ushas,  thou  distri- 
buted resources  in  offspring,  men,  horses,  and  kine.  8.  Blessed  TJflbas, 
thou  who,  animated   by  strength,  shincst  forth  with  w  i  iehes, 

may  I  obtain  that  renowned  and  solid  wealth,  which  consist*  in  stout 
eons,  numerous  slaves,  and  horses,  fl.  Directing  her  eyes  towards  oil 
creatures,  thu  goddess  shines  before  them  far  aad  wide.  Housing  into 
motion  every  living  thing,  sin;  notices  the  voice  of  every  adorer.  10. 
Burn  again  and  again,  though  ancient,  shining  with  an  ever  uniform 
hue,  (she  goes  on)  wasting  away  tho  life  of  mortals,  carrying  it  away 
as  a  clever  gambler  the  stake*.'"  11.  She  is  perceived  revealing  the 
ends  of  the  sky  ;  she  chases  far  away  her  sister  (Night).  Wearing  out 
the  Uvea  of  men,  the  lady  shines  with  tho  light  of  her  lover  (the  sun), 
[i.  115,  2.  The  Mm  follows  thu  shining  goddess  Ushas,  ue  a  man,  com- 
ing after,  approaches  a  woman,  vii.  73,  4.  Daughter  of  the  Sky, 
misiltte  of  the  world,  food-providing  wifo  of  the  sun.]  i.  92,  !  2. 
Tho  bright,  and  blessed  goddess  has  widely  diffused  her  rays,  as 
if  eho  were  driving  forth  cattle  in  various  directions,  or  aa  a  river 


boUJj  to  men,  as  a  warrior  on  s  chariot  goes  forth  proudly  to  conquer  booty  (cossp. 
ix.  96,  20),  us  a  disunited  wifo  in  presence  Ot  her  husband,  «o  r«ha»  aavttls  before 
the  eyes  of  oicu  all  her  beauty,  amiling  as  it  wore  in  thu  sure  oonseioui oca  of  its  orw- 
powering  effect."  This  explanation  seems  to  express  well  the  import  of  the  word 
MJibSuufi  a*  interpreted  in  n  previous  note. 

"•  Seo  above,  seti  986. 

*°  8»yin»  takes  trafkni  for  a  "fowler's  wifo"  (ry5<tta-«rr7),  sad  *«/•*  fcr 
**l»ird»."  Seo  Wilaon  in  looo.  Bonfcy  laV(«  vij-'h  for  "  dice,"  and  cxpUiM  lbs 
clause  as  denoting  a  oaaning  gambler  who  tampers  with  the  dice,  by  ihaviug  them 
down.  See  hi*  note.  Bolleosea,  Orient  nnd  Occiileut,  ii.  *CH,  rranilstes:  "ss  a 
fortoaatc  gauieater  carries  off  the  gains."  The  phrase  t\jvl>  iru  a  mindri  occurs  again 
ii.  ISA,  where  Sienna  talcs  njak  for  luirtjakah,  "a  vcxer."  So  uncertain 
arc  hit  explanationi  1 


HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  USHAE. 


187 


rolling  down  its  floods  ;  maintaining  the  ordinance*  of  the  gods,  she 
is  perceived,  made  risible  by  the  rays  of  the  torn.  13.  Ushas,  provider 
of  food,  bring  us  that  brilliant  fortune  whereby  we  may  posse**  off- 
spring. 14.  Ushfl*,  resplendent,  awaking  cheerful  voices  (or  hymns), 
dawn  richly  upon  us  to-day,  bringing  cowa  and  horses.  15.  Yoke  to- 
day, Ushas,  thy  ruddy  steed*,  and  then  bring  us  all  blessings." 

i.  113,  1  (  =  8.V.  ii.  1099;  Nir.  ii.  19).  Ida*  imkfkiA  jyoliah&A 
jyotir  dydl  chitrnh  prttketo  ojanithfa  tibked  \  yatkd  prasutu  Sarituk 
tatiya  tra  rdtrl  Uthtue  yenim  araiA  |  [i.  124,  8  Siwd  ntura  jy&- 
yatyai  ytnm  araiy  apaiti  «y.*4  pratiekahhy*  iV«]  i.  113,  2  (  — 
8.V.  ii.  1100;  Nir.  ii.  20).  RuiadtaM  raiatt  futyA  dfdd  araic  u 
krithma  tadanAni  tuy&h  \  iantanaba%dhil  avtriU  an&ehl  dyAtd  tornam 
ckaratak  AminAn*  |  8(»  ST.  ii.  1101).  SamAno  adhtd  irasror  amam- 
tat  tarn  anyA  'nyA  tkarata  dtraiukft  |  na  mttketa  na  ta*h{katuk  ntmeta 
naht»th6tka  samanaiS  rir&p*  |  4.  BhAttati  tutrl  UlnritAnAtti  achti 
thitrd  ti  duro  nah  Atak  \  prArpya  jagad  vi  u  no  rdyo  oJckyad  whak 
ajlyar  bhurarulni  risrA  |  [i.  48,  Id.  U*Ko  yad  adya  bhAnunA  vi 
dcdr&o  finara  ditch  |  iiyAdi]  L  113,  6.  Jihmaiyt  tharifart  maghonl 
dbhagayt  ithfatjt  ray*  u  tram  dabhram  paiyadbhyah  urriyd  vi 
tkaktha  uthAk  ajlgar  bbtirandni  riVrd  |  6.  KthaUrAya  ttafa  irarane  tram 
mahtyai  ithtaye  turn  artkam  tea  tram  ityai  |  ci»adri&&  jitizd  'hhiprm- 
tiahKe  tuh&h  ajlyar  bhutan&ni  tiitd  |  7.  EthA  diva  duhitA  pralyodarii 
ryaekhantl  ynroiih  iukracatAh  *'  |  riiraiyefdnd  pArlhiituya  rasvah  usho 
adytka  tubkagt  ti  uchka  |  8.  ParAyattnum  anu  Hi  pdlhah  ayallmim 
pratkamA  (aitatinam  |  eyuthhantl  /MM  udtrayanti  mf*ih  mritam  kaia 
tkana  kodkayanlf  |  [i.  123,  8.  Sadriilr  adya  tadritXr  id  u  fro  dlrokam 
MtthnnU  Farumuya  dhAma  |  anavadyAt  triSkiatam  yojanAni  tkaikA  Ira- 
lam  pari  ynali  tadyah  |  9.  jAnatt  aknah  pratkanuuyo  nAma  iulrA  kri*h. 
aud  ajanithfa  kfitteh\  \  ritatya  yoih.A  na  ainAti  dhAma  ahar  abar  nuA- 
ifitam  6thnraHt\~\  i.  113,  0.  Utho  yad  agnim  utmidhi  ehakartha  ei  yad 
Atai  ckakthud  tiryaty*  |  yad  ntAnmkAH  yahhyamAgAn  ajlgai  taddetaJtn 
tkakfiiht  bhodram  apiuth  |  10.  Kiyoti  &  tot  aomayA  bkatuti  yah  ryiukur 
yui  cha  ninafft  tyuchhaa  |  mil  pirtAk  kripata  tAtatAnA  pradldhyAnA 
jatkam  anyAbfiir  yAti  |  11.  lyua  to  yt  pSrvotordm  apoiyan  ryuekhaatim 
uihoaam  martydtah  |  atndbhir  u  nm  prtUichakthyA  abkid  A  u  U  yanti 

iukramt 


Comaut  »iL  77,  2:   fu, 
iukramthaU. 


\  pratickJ  tapratkal  md  attkid  ruiad  tot*  Mkratl 


188 


HYMSS  ADDRESSED  TO  USD  AS. 


yt  aparUhu  paiyun  |  12.  Yuwyaddutha  ritapih  n/gdA  tumniirarl 
ffarAd  Irayantt  |  tumangtillr  bibhroK  dttoiUim  ikodya  U*hdh  ir<*fha- 
Uma  w  urAAa  |  1:5.  Saitat  purA  uihdh  ei  wdM  atol  rtMo  <w/y«  tVum  M 
dro  mm^Aom!  I  atko  ti  uehhad  tdtardn  anu  dyin  ajari  'mrita  ehoroti 
ttadkabhih  |  14.  f'i  anjibhir  dirah  statu  adyaud  apo  kruhniira  nirnijaih 
detl  elrah  \  prabodhayantl  aruntbhir  ahair  a  uthuh  y/iti  tuyujtl  ratkena  \ 
15.  Atahantt  pothya  r/tryam  cht'lrain  hetum  Irinutt  chelitQnQ  |  lytuhlnim 
upainu  ttiicattndih  cibhatlnam  prathamd  mliuh  n  titmt  |  [i.  1 
Annua'.)  ih-.irijniii  trat'ini  prtwinati  mantahyfi  yugdni  |  lyusbintim 
Wptmi  htcaloiniii  dyaUmim  pTtAmA  MtAd|  'V  adyatd  Q  i.  1!';,  Id. 
Ud  lrdAram  Jlro  atur  nah  fig&d  apa  prugSt  (amah  d  jyotir  eti  |  araii 
pmtfUitli  yutave  AbysTjfl  aganma  yatra  pratiranle  Hijuh  |  17.  £ytiffksnd 
idchuh  ud  iyartli  vahtiih  ttacuno  rtbhah  mhato  ribhut\h  I  mfya  tad  mehha 
grinatt  maghoni  dime  &y\tr  ni  didlhi  prajurut  |  18.  Yah  gvamllr  i«A*- 
tak  tanatiruA  tyufflunti  dviuehf  murtydya  |  viyer  h-a  tutiritdndn 
udarl*  laA  aivaddh  ainatat  lomatutcfi  |  19.  Matd  tktandin  Aditer  atil- 
him  yajnatya  ketur  brihat)  n  bhtihi  \  praiattilrid  brahman*  «o  m  vehLa 
ft  m>  jnne  j&naya  eiieaeSre  |  20.  Yal  rhitrnm  aptuxh  tuhaso  rnhanti  ijdn/iya 

UMft  bhadram  \  tan  no  Hiiro  t'aruno  mUmahantum  Aditih  ttxdhuh 
J'fifbivl  uts  DynuX  \ 

'1.  '•  This  light  Las  arrived,  the  greatest  of  nil  lights ;  the  glorious 
and  brilliant  illumination  has  been  born.  Inasmuch  as  she  (Usluu) 
has  been  produced  for  the  prodm-tinn  of  Savitri,  tie  Night  has 
nnulc  way  for  Ugh  a*,  [i.  1'24,  8.  The  sister  (Night)  has  made 
way  for  her  elder  sister  (Ushos)  ;  and  departs,  after  she  has,  as  it 
looked  upon  her],  i.  113,  2.  Tho  fair  and  bright  Uahas, 
with  her  bright  child  (the  Sun)  has  arrived  ;  to  her  the  dark 
(Night)  has  relinquished  her  abodes;  kindred  to  one  another,  im- 
BMriaL,  dtN&stiag  Day  and  Night  go  on  dunging  colour.  3.  The 
same  is  the  never-ouding  path  of  the  two  sisters,  which  they  traT« 
OOmmtndsd  hy  tho  gods.  They  strive  not,  they  rest  not,  the  prolific 
Night  and  Lhiwn,  concordant,  though  unlike.     4.  The  shining  Ushas, 

i  of  joyful  voices  (or  hyranB),  has  been  perceived ;  she  has  opened 
for  us  the  doors  (of  tho  sky) :  setting  in  motion  all  moving  tilings, 
she  has  revealed  to  u«  riches;  Uthas  has  awakened  all  creatures, 
[i.  48,  Id.  Uahas,  ns  thou  hast  by  thy  light  opened  to  us  the  two 
doors  of  heaven,  etc.]     i.  113,  5.  (Arousing)  the  prostrate  sleeper  to 


TIYMN8  ADDRESSED  TO  FSn.VS. 


1H9 


move,  (impelling)  mother  to  enjoyment,  to  the  pursuit  of  wealth, 
(enabling)  those  who  see  but  a  little  way,  to  aga  fur;  Ushas  lias 
tied  all  creatures.  C.  (Arousing)  one  to  seek  royal  power, 
another  to  follow  after  fume,  another  for  grand  efforts,  another  to 
pursue  as  it  were  his  particular  object, — TJshoa  awakes  all  creatures  to 
consider  their  different  modes  of  lifo.  7.  She,  the  daughter  of  the  sky, 
baa  been  beheld  breaking  forth,  youthful,  dad  in  shining  attire: 
mistrcM  of  oil  earthly  treasures,  auspicious  Ushas,  shine  here  to-day. 
8.  Ushas  follows  tho  trac-k  of  the  Dawns  that  are  past,  and  is  the 
first  of  tho  unnumbered  13a wm  that  are  to  come,  breaking  forth, 
arousing  life,  and  awaking  every  one  Unit  was  dead.  [i.  133,  tt. 
Alike  to-day,  alike  to-morrow,  tlioy  obsorvo  tho  perpetual  ordinance 
of  VoniQa.  Spotless,  tin  \  •  ofe  |  nstantonoounly  shoot  forward  thirty 
yojanas,  their  destined  task."*  9.  Knowing  the  indication  of  tho 
earliest  clay,  tho  bright,  the  lucid  (goddess)  has  been  born  from  the 
black  (gloom).    The  female  do  mxgrcss  the  settled  ordinance, 

coming  day  by  day  to  the  appointed  pluco.]  i.  113.  9.  Inasmuch  at 
thou  hast  mado  Agni  to  be  kindled,  hast  shone  forth  by  the  light  of 
the  eun,  and  hast  awakened  the  men  who  are  to  offer  sacrifice,  thou 
bast  done  good  service  to  the  gods.  10.  How  great  is  the  intcrrol 
that  lies  between  *"  tho  Dawns  which  have  arisen,  and  those  which 
are  yet  to  ariee  ?  Ushas  yearns  longingly  after  tho  former  Dawns, 
•ad  gladly  goes  on  shining  with  tho  others  (that  axe  to  come). 
11.  Those  mortals  are  gone  who  saw  the  earliest  UbIuw  dawning  ;  wo 
shall  gaze  upon  her  now;  and  tho  men  are  coming  who  are  to  I 
her  on  future  morns.  12.  Repelling  foes,  protecting  right  (or  rites), 
born  in  right  (or  rites),  imparting  joy,  stimulating  joyful  voices  (or 
hymns),  bringing  good  fortune,  promoting  the  feast  of  the  gods,  rise  on 
os.  Ushas,  the  best  (of  all  Dawn«).  13.  Perpetually  in  former  days  did 
the  divine  Ushas  dawn  ;  und  now  to-day  the  magnificent  goddess 
beams  upon  this  world:  undecaying,  immortal,  she  marches  on  by  her 
own  will.  14.  She  has  shone  forth  with  hex  splendours  on  the  borders 
of  the  sky;  the  bright  goddess  boa  chased  away  tho  dark  veil  of 


Se»  BohUingk  and  Roth,  *.«•.  l*aiw. 

MMJyo  mcoaa  "o«ar,"  aeoordiag  to  SaT»««-    Prof.  MUlIer,  Tr»n».  | 
ooonikn  it  I*  sifftifj  "tether,"  "sUikv  '     Tbo  rankling  I  hare  riven  ia  ibit 
of  hnfaavi  antoest 


190 


RELATIONS  OF  USITAS 


Bight;  arousing  the  -world,  Ushaa  advanoea  io  her  well -yoked  car, 
drawn  by  ruddy  stood*.  16.  Bringing  with  her  abundant  boous, 
revealing  herself,  she  display*  a  brilliant  lustre.  Uahas  has  abona 
forth,  the  last  of  the  numerous  Dawns  which  ore  past,  and  the  first  of 
those  which  are  coming,  [i.  124,  2.  Maintaining  the  ordinance*  of 
the  gods,  bat  wasting  away  the  lives  of  men,  Ushaa  has  shone  forth, 
the  last  of  the  numerous  former  dawns,  and  the  first  of  ihose  that  are 
coming.]  L  113,  16.  Arise!  our  life,  our  breath,  has  come;  darkness 
has  departed ;  light  arrives ;  Ushaa  has  opened  up  a  path  for  the  sun 
to  travel:  we  hare  reached  the  point  where  men  prolong  their  days. 
17.  The  priest,  the  poet,  celebrating  the  brightening  Dawns,  arise*  with 
the  web-"1  of  his  hymn;  shine  therefore,  magnificent  Ushaa,  on  him 
who  praises  thee;  gleam  on  us  with  life  and  offspring.  18.  May  ha 
who  offers  libutions  of  foinu  obtain  such  Dawns  as  rise  upon  the  liberal 
mortal,  (Dawns)  rich  in  kino,  in  (sons)  all  stalwart,  and  in  horses,  at 
the  end  of  his  hymns  which  resound  like  the  wind.300  19.  Mother  of 
the  gods,  manifestation  of  Aditi,  forerunner  of  the  sacrifice,  mighty 
Ushae,  shine  forth !  Arise,  bestowing  approbation  on  our  prayer;  giver 
of  all  boons,  increase  our  progeny.*"  20.  May  Mitra,  Vorurja,  Aditi, 
tlir  Ocean,  tlio  Earth,  and  the  Sky,  bestow  upon  us  those  brilliant  and 
excellent  resources  which  the  Dawns  bring  to  the  man  who  offer* 
sacrifice  and  praise." 

(2)  Rtlatim*  of  Uthat  to  thi  other  deities. 

Ushaa,  as  we  hare  seen,  is  constantly  described  as  the  daughter  i 
the  Sky  (ofuMd  DUah,  as  in  i.  30,  22;  i.  48,  1,  8,  9 ;  i.  92,  6,  7 ;  i. 
183.  2;  iv.  80,  8;  vii.  67,  2;  viii.  47,  14  f.;  ditiJAh  in  tu.  75,  1)."» 
Sho  is  also  colled  the  sister  of  Bhagn  and  the  kinswoman  of  Varuus, 
i.  123,  3  (llhagatya  tvasd  Fanincuya  j&mih).     Sho  is  ahio  the  sister  of 

*°*  Sfwmmui  is  taken  by  Siyana  at  an  sectsMtiv*  plural  and  oonstrotit  n-.rh 
rack*)  iii  the  seoM  of  "hymn*  aowed  together,"  or  "  oojinccUd."  Professor  Beater 
takes  it  u  the  instrumental  singular  of  tyuauin,  and  renders,  "  with  the  web  ot  the 
word."      Professor  Aon  <  m    iliii  llsi.  Hlhlllin,  III  111    iii   81,4 

**  8m  BeruVy  in  loot,  and  Ik.hQiiiglt  and  Both,  ».e.  udvriv.  wher«  liur'ta  \m  ex- 
plained of  hymns. 

*w  Professor  A  ufrtcht  proposes  to  trsmlste  jam*  a  /smjm  by  «'  give  us  prominsaw* 
among  ncn,"  8*y*nji  explains  tut  words  by  "  fettle  us  in  the  country  "  (jisM#W< 
abktmvkkfma  pra<t*tbluita)i*  |  msrAapays. 

*»  la  i.  *A  1,  she  is  colled  "  the  bcloscd  of  the  Sky  "  (priyi  l)ir*t). 


TO  THE  OTHEIl  DEITIES. 


191 


Night,  i.  1 13, 2,  3 ;  x.  1 27,  3,  and  in  i.  1 24,  8,  the  elder  sister.  Night 
is  also  in  one  place,  x.  127,  6,  called  the  daughter  of  the  Sky.  The 
two  sisters  are  frequently  conjoined  in  the  duals  naktoshari  and  uthtua- 
naJkta  or  otherwise,  i.  13,  7  ;  i.  90,  7;  L  96,  6;  i.  122,  2;  i.  186,  4; 
ii.  2,  2 ;  ii.  3,  6;  ii.  81,  6 ;  iv.  55,  3 ;  v.  41,  7 ;  vii.  2,  6 ;  rii.  42,  5  ; 
ix.  5,  6  ;  x.  36,  1 ;  x.  70,  6  ;  x.  110,  6.  In  vii.  2,  C,  they  ore  com- 
pared to  two  grcot  celestial  female*  (yetfiani  iicyt  maM  na  mha$dttutld), 
and  in  ii.  31,  8,  they  aro  characterized  as  the  two  blessed  goddesses 
who  arc  seen  alternately  *■  and  impel  all  moving  things  (uta  tyt  det\ 
tubhag*  mtlhudrviti  utJuunnaktn  jagatum  aptjnrii  \  ttiuki  |).  TJshas  is 
also,  as  was  to  bo  expected,  frequently  brought  into  connection  with 
the  Sun-  As  we  hare  seen  above,  he  is  called  her  lover,  i.  92,  1 1,  or  if 
with  Roth,  w.v.jaroj  we  should  understand  this  of  Agni,  the  Sun  is 
indubitably  described  as  going  alter  Ushas  iu  a  nuin  after  a  woman,  in 
L  116,  2,  quoted  above.  Ho  is  said  to  follow  her  track,  v.  HI,  2 
(uriM  ohm  prayunam  uthatc  ri  r&juii);  and  she  is  represented  as 
bringing  the  cyo  of  the  gods  and  leading  on  the  beautiful  white  horse 
(the  sun),  vii.  77,  3.  She  is  declared  to  be  the  mistress  of  the  world 
and  the  wife  of  the  sun,  vii.  75,  5  {bhuianaiya  palm  \  rtijinlvatl  t&ryam/m 
yothi),  as  the  Dawns,  in  the  plural,  are  said  to  be  in  iv.  6,  13  (JuuUl  no 
dtv\r  amritatya  patnlh  sure  rarnrns  UtaHanu  uthwmh).  Iniii.  61,  4, 
Ushas  is  said  to  be  »v***r**ya  paM,  which  Sayans  renders  wife  of  tho 
Son  or  the  Day.**  In  vii.  78,  3,  tho  Dawns  are  even  said  to  generate 
the  sun,  sacrifice  and  Agni  {ajijanan  titryatii  yajnam  ajmm).  Ushas  and 
Agni  aro  also  frequently  brought  into  eimjum  ii»n,  firo  being  always 
kindled  for  sacrificial  purposes  at  dawn.  He  is  called  her  lover,  and 
is  said  to  appear  with,  or  before  the  dawn,  i.  C9,  1  ;  i.  124,  I,  1 1 
5,  1  ;  iv.  13,  1 ;  ir.  14,  I  ;  vii.  8,  1 ;  vii.  9,  1,  3;  vii.  10,  I ;  vii.  67. 
2;  vii.  77,  1;  vii  78,  2;  riii.  43,  fi;  x.  1,  1;  x.  8,4;  x.  35,  6;  x. 
122,  7.M  Dj  one  place  he  is  represented  as  goiug  to  meet  ber  as  she 
comes,  and  to  beg  for  riches  (iii.  61,6.  dyalim  Agw  UtJuuam  viihdllm 
ruM<i«4  r*At  drariHiist  hhhhamuitah).    In  vii.  6,  6,  Agni  is  said  to  have 

*■*  8©  Profs***  Both  UDilcrwUnds  mUhidfUS.  Bavina  makes  It  ■  looking-  st 
•m*  oUuv.- 

**  Jtoth.  bowetcr,  IUuatr.  of  NirakU,  p.  00,  ssrt  mrcmrm  (neater)  moans  oal* 
MStoSBsrT  road.  pUcauf  abode,  court  for  cattle,  bat  bo  doss  sot  sdTStt  to  this  patug*. 

»•  In  x.  1,  S(»S.V.iL8M),  Agni  sppe&rtto  so  the  lover  of  Us  isiter,  the  Nigkt. 
Boo  Boofoj'i  trsaa.  of  tbo  B.  V.  H,  898. 


102 


vnONS  OF  TTSHAS 


made  the  Dawns,  the  spouses  of  the  noble  god  (yo  tryapalnir  mhcual  eht- 
lara),  which  Saynnn  understands  of  the  sun.  I'ihas  i»  alto  often  con- 
i  with  Bu  AsVins,  tho  timo  of  whov*  manifestation,  as  we  shall 
hercnftcT  eeo,  is  regarded  by  Yaska  os  being  between  midnight  and 
sunrise,  i.  41,  2 ;  i.  180,  1 ;  iii.  20,  1 ;  vii.  69,  5;  vii.  72,  S,  4  ;  viii. 
9,  18;  x.  11,  1.  They  are  said  to  associate  with  hor,  i.  183,  2  (ZJi'ro 
dtihitra  Uthasa  lachelht) ;  and,  she  is  said  to  bo  their  friimd,  iv.  52,  2 
(takha  'bhfii  Aktnor  Ushafr  |  3.  Uta  talha  \ii  Ahinoh).  In  viii.  9,  17, 
she  is  called  upon  to  awaken  them  (pra  Imlhaya  Uiho  Ait\<.r.  .  II  : 
hymn  is  said  to  have  awoke  tin m,  iii  58,  1  (Uthatah  *toma  Aicmtie 
ajlgah).  Again,  however,  we  arc  told  that  when  tho  Aivins'  car  is  yoked, 
the  daughter  of  the  sky  is  bom,  x.  30,  12  {ttaxya  yoga  duhila  jayaU 
Dw«h).  In  one  place,  x.  85,  19,  the  moon  ia  said  to  be  born  again  tad 
npuio,  ever  now,  and  to  go  before  Ushus  as  the  herald  of  the  day  {naro 
nato  bharati  juyamiino  aJmdm  tttur  tuhmum  rfi  agram).  India  i* 
ta  have  created,  or  lighted  up,  Ushas,  ii.  12,  7  (yah  turytm  yah 
Uhhasam  fitjunn);  ii.  21,  4;  iii.  31,  15;  iii.  32,  8;  iii.  44,  2  (h/iryaH* 
ut/uisam  arehayah) ;  vi.  17,  6.  Ho  is,  however,  sometimes  repre- 
sented as  assuming  n  hostile  attitude  towards  her.  In  ii.  15,  6,  he  is 
vii'l  to  hnvo  crushed  her  chariot  with  his  thunderbolt  (vajrena  anak 
Uthaaah  sampipetha).  The  snnio  thing  is  repeated  in  ivr.  30,  8  IT. 
(where  tho  poet,  with  the  want  of  gallantry  which  was  so  cha- 
;  istic  of  the  ancients,  does  not  hesitate  to  admire  the  manli- 
nesj  and  heroism  of  Indru  in  overcoming  a  female)  :  I'lad  yka  id 
■ryyam  Ittdra  chabtrlha  paumiyan  \  »(riyaSi\  yad  durka»&y*caih 
rtidlur  dtihitaram  Diiah  \  0.  Dind  chid  gka  iithilaram  mah&»  ntahfya- 
mntum  |  Lhhamm  Intlra  nam  pinak  |  10  (■=  Jurukta,  xi.  47).  Ap» 
Uthnh  NMMJ  Karat  MumpUhfUd  aha  bibhyuth}  \  ni  yat  «iiw  iiiiMlhtd 
vrithd  |  11  (-  Nir.  xi.  48).  Et«d  avyth  imah  iayt  tu4ampi*h(am  ripCii 
a  |  antra  iJki  peirOiatah  \  "  8.  This,  Indra,  was  a  deed  of  might  and 
manliness  which  thou  didst  achieve,  thnt  thou  didst  smite  the  daughter 
of  the  sky,  a  woman  who  wns  bent  on  evil.  9.  Thou  Indru,  ■  great 
(god),  didst  crush  Ushas,  though  the  daughter  of  the  sky,  who  was  ex- 
alting herself.  10.  Ushas  fled  away  in  terror  from  her  shattered  ear, 
when  the  vigorous  (Indra)had  email"  d  it.  11.  This  clinriot  of  hen  lies 
broken  and  dissolved,  while  she  herself  has  fled  afar  oif."  Those 
verses  are  translated  in  his  Illustrations  of  the  Niruktu  by  lloth,  who 


i 


TO  THE  OTHER  DEITIES. 


198 


adduces  R.V.  x.  138,  5,  a»  referring  to  the  same  myth:  Tndriuyn 
rajrud  obtlhed  abhiinathoh  prdkrdmat  iuiulh\jur  ajthdd  Utht'th  anah  | 
"  The  hright  Ushaa  was  afraid  of  th"  destructive,  thunderbolt  of  Indra  ; 
■he  departed  and  abandoned  her  chariot."  And  in  x.  73,  6,  it  is  said 
that  Indra  destroyed  certain  foes  like  the  chariot  of  Ushas  (ai-uAaiw 
Jndrah  Uthew  yathi  <meh). 

Soma  is  said  to  have  made  tho  Dawns  bright  ot  their  birth,  vi.  39, 3, 
(fuekijanmanth  U*hcuai  ehakSra),  and  to  haco  formod  them  tho  wire* 
of  a  glorious  husband,  vi.  44,  23  (ayrnn  akp'nod  tukataft  tupatnlh). 
Bribuspati  is  said  to  have  discovered  Ushas,  the  Sun,  etc.,  x.  67,  5, 
[BriAaipatir  Uthataih  Suryati  jdm  arkam  rirwfci),  and  to  have  repelled 
the  darkness  by  light,  x   GH,  9  (so  arktna  wi  babadhe  tamGilui). 

Tho  early  father*,  who  were  wise  and  righteous,  and  companions  of 
the  gods  in  their  festivities,  are  said  to  have  possessed  efficacious  hymns 
wherewith  they  discovered  the  hidden  light,  and  generated  Ushas,  vii. 
78,  4  (te  id  (/fctiwJm  tadhamthluh  uaaun  rittitunoh  katayah  pdrry&tah  | 
yilham  jyotir  pitaro  ancacindan  tatyamaiilrak  ajartayann  Uihutam). 

(3)  EpitheU,  ckaracterirtiu,  and  function*  of  Uthat. 

The  yighantu,  i.  8,  gives  sixteen  names  of  Ushas,  which  seem  to  he 
almost  entirely  epithets,  viz.  ribhcuarl  (the  resplendent),  sfliwl  (tho 
beautiful),  bhdnatl  (tho  shining),  odatl  (the  flowing,  gushing,  from  tho 
root  ud,  according  to  Professor  Roth,  a.r.),  chitr&tughd  (possessed  of 
brilliant  riches),  crjunX  (the  white),  cujinX,  rajmltatt  (tho  bringcr  of 
food),  nunnavarX  (the  girer  of  joy),  ahanu,  dyetanu  (the  bright},  tottfi 
(the  fair-coloured),  aruthi  (the  ruddy),  $unritfi,  tinrituvnti ,  tunfitd- 
tyarl  (the  utters*  of  pleasant  or  sacred  voice*)."1   Somo  of  these  epithets 


*»  Pntcttot  Aufrccht  think,  that  IhU  mwd  liafto  U  to  \x>  tspluned  »»  follow* !  tl» 
COaaUsr*  it  to  to  a  dent miic  from  itfit,  "  to  bo  in  motion,"  com|>uuiidrd  with  m. 
Ill  arst  meaning  is  'moTable'  (sftsjfM  attghani.  R.V.  ril.  67,  6),  then  'brisk,' 
•al«rt'  >w§r>'ra,  prnlic*ted"  of  Indra,  riii  Hi,  M  |  «£»r,£*  OI  Usluu.  i».  64,  »; 
i.  113,  A;  114.  10;  <riii.  a,  17).    As  s  feminine  rotoUntire  in  the  plural  it  mtuni 

either  •*<tjritj,'  OX,  with  B  Mippliflri  fir,  "lively  Toitt*  "  (stmritnmiim  firam,  iii,  31, 
18};  nrtri  timrttimam  i»  L'sbst  as  •  sUmuUtor,  or  tathcr.  leader  (x"fTr*0  °'  jorfcl 
vokes  (of  birds,  ate  -  just  tho  tame.    Professor  Aufracbt  U  at 

OpKioa  that  the  word*  rtyor  ira  $utiritimaai  wiarkt.  in  R.V.  i.  113.  18.  »houid  not 
be  rrndend  as  I  asr*  done  in  p.  ISO,  above,  but  translated  thus:  "  nbuu  feneat 
voices  arus  like  the  rising  of  tho  wind  (ortu  tecum  ftlul  «rfM  rtnlij."     UMirl*  k* 

13 


194 


EPITHETS.  CHARACTERISTICS, 


2 

fcfr 


are  of  frequent  occurrence  in  the  hymns,  and  there  are  also  many  others 
to  bo  found  there,  such  as  snsyAwtl  (the  magnificent),  tuMayi  (the  fortu- 
nate), arvnapm  (the  ruddy),  fittiwl  (the  righteous),  rili*/><2  (the  prc- 
aervei  of  right  or  of  order),  tittja  (born  in  right,  or  order),  fvM 
(bright),  hirtttyatarnd  (goldhued),  dcvl  (the  goddo?s,  or  the  divine), 
amfitS  (the  immortal),  ram-aiandrik  (of  pleasant  aspect),  mdriiika- 
landrii  (the  same),  tuprallkd  (the  brilliant),  mli/airaairt  (poena wed  of 
real  wealth,  or  renown),  danuchilrti  (bringing  brilliant  gift*),  ghrittipra- 
tilo  (shining  like  butter),  indratama  (moat  similar  to  Indrn  ,  L90,  20; 
i.  48,  1,  %  7,  M  ;  >.  92,  6-9,  14,  15  ;  i.  113,  2,  12,  13  ;  i.  123, 
4,  6 ;  i.  134,  4  ;  iii.  61,  2,  5 ;  it.  53,  9;  r.  39,  8;  v.  30,  1 ;  rii.  75, 
3;  vii.  77,  2;  vii.  78,  4;  vii.  79,  3;  vii.  81,  1  ;  viii.  62,  16. 

Vidua  is  borne  onward  on  a  shining  chariot,  of  massive  construction, 
richly  decorated  nud  spontaneously  yoked  [rathena  Ifihadi, — npcia#l, — 
titrapi&i, — ioiiicAatti,—j</olixh»Mta, — avaihaij'i  yuji/iinurtcna),  i.  48,  10; 
i.  40,  2;  i.  123,  7;  iii.  61,  2;  t.  80,  2;  vii.  75,  6;  vii.  78,  1,4; 
from  the  distant  east,  i.  92,  1 ;  i.  124,  5.  She  is  also  said  to  arrirc 
n  hundred  chariots,-  i.  48,  7.  She  is  drawn  by  ruddy  horses  (an.- 
tfotfy),  i.  30,  22;  i.  49,  I;  i.  92,  15;  i.  113,4;  iii  01,2;  iv.  51,6; 
t.  79, 1  ff. ;  vii.  75,  6,  or  by  cows  or  bulls  of  the  snmc  colour,  Xighaniu 
i.  15;  R.V.  i.  •).',  12;  i.  l-'l,  II;  v.  80,  3;  and  traverse*  rapidly  a 
distance  of  thirty  yojnnns,  i.  123,  8.  Like  a  beautiful  young  woman 
dressed  by  her  mother,  a  richly  decked   dancing  girl,  a  gaily  attired 

;-I>c:iring  before  her  husband,  or  a  female  ri- 
of  the  bath, — smiling,  and  confiding  in  the  irresistible  power  of  her 
liona,  she  unveils  her  bosom  to  the  giuc  of  the  beholder,  i.  92, 
I  i  123,  10;  i.  124,  4ff.;  v.  80,  4,  3;  vi.  64,  2.  She  dispels  the 
darkness,  disclosing  the  treasures  it  had  concealed  ;  she  illuminates  the 
world,  revealing  its  most  distant  extremities.  She  is  the  life  and 
tattA  of  all  things,  causing  the  birds  to  fly  forth  from  their  nests, 
visiting  every  house,  and  like  an  active  housewife  arousing  her  house- 
hold, awakening  the  five  races  of  men,  ycu  all  creatures,  as  if  from 
death,  and  sending  men  forth  to  the  pursuit  of  their  several  occupations, 

regards  iu  diriir.1  from  <:■!  un.i  fha  roof  ."■  ind  as  meaning  "riaag,"  "motion 
upward."  and  compares  R.V.  iii.  8.  5.  Dmtyalf  vipralf  nliyartti  wafitm,  **TV  pion* 
prii«t  ItfsOl  l>«  rotOS;"   »ml    ii.    47.  8.   Jyam    mi  y~>t*K   luKyarili  rneJktm,  "Thk 

soma,  irhon  drunk,  ruixs  m  j  '    1  Bote  A  r  inTiVori  si  ■  g.niMi— 

(AvOin  R.V.  i.  10,  J,  and  x.  HI 


AND  FUNCTIONS  OF  U80AS. 


195 


i.48,6,  8,  10;  i.  49,  4 ;  L  92,  11 ;  i.  113,8,  16;  i.  123,4,  6;i.  121, 
12;  ii.  34,  12 ;  vii.  76,  I ;  vii.  79,  1  f.;  vii.  80,  1,  and  rendering  good 
service  to  the  gods,  by  causing  all  worshippers  to  awake,  and  the  sacrificial 
fire*  to  be  kindled,  i.  1 13,  9.  She  is,  however,  entreated  to  arouse  only 
the  devout  and  liberal  worshipper,  and  to  leavo  tho  ungodly  niggard 
to  sleep  on  in  unconsciousness,  i.  124,  10;  It.  61,  3.  She  is  young, 
being  born  anew  every  day,  and  yet  she  is  old,  nay  immortal,  and 
wears  out  the  lives  of  successive  generations,  which  disappear  one  after 
another,  while  she  continues  undecaying,  i.  92,  9ff. ;  i.  1 13,  13,  15; 
i.  123,2;  i.  124,2;  vii.  18,  20. 

The  worshippers,  however,  sometimes  venture  to  take  tho  credit  of 
being  more  alert  than  Ushas,  and  of  awaking  her  instead  of  being 
awakened  by  her  (prali  Homair  abhuUmaht,  iv.  52,  4 ;  vii.  68,  9  ; 
vii.  81,  3;  z.  88,  19;  and  this  tho  Vuaisbthas  claim  to  have  been  tho 
first  to  do  by  their  hymns,  vii.  80,  1  (prali  ttonubhir  vthatam 
Vauthfbih  glrbhir  ciyruuih  prathium'ih  abudhran) ;  and  in  one  place 
she  is  solicited  to  make  no  delay,  that  the  sun  may  not  scorch  her 
like  a  thief  or  an  enemy,  v.  79,  9  (t«  uchha  duhitar  Dko  roil  chiram 
tanuthi\h  ajmh  |  na  it  tvii  $ttnam  i/nthd  ripuih  tapGli  iflro  artkitkti). 
8bo  is  prayed  to  bring  the  gods  to  drink  the  libations  of  Soma,  i. 
48,  12.  Agni  and  tho  goda  generally  are  described  as  wakiug  with 
Ushas  (uiharMkah),  i.  14,  0;  i.  It.  11  ;  i.  92,  18;  iii.  2,  14;  it.  8, 
8;  vi.  4,  2;  vi.  15,  1  ;  ix.  84,  4. 

As  we  have  already  seen  from  the  hymns  which  hare  been  trans- 
lated, she  is  frequently  asked  to  bring,  or  dawn  (us  in  former  times)  on 
the  worshipper  with,  various  sorts  of  wealth,  children,  slaves,  etc.,  to 
afford  protection,  and  to  prolong  life,  i.  30,  22  ;  i.  48,  1  ff.,  9, 
11,  15;  i.  92.  8,  13 ff.;  iv.  51,  7;  vii.  41,  7;  vii.  75,  2;  vii.  77,5; 
to  revolve  like  a  wheel  over  new,  iii.  61,  3;  to  confer  renown  and 
glory  on  the  liberal  benefactors  of  the  poet,  v.  79,  8  f.  (eomp.  i.  48,  4)  ; 
to  drive  away  sleeplessness  to  Trita  Aptya,  viii.  47,  14-16. 

The  worshippers  in  one  place  ask  that  they  may  obtain  from  her 
riches,  and  stand  to  her  in  the  relation  of  sons  to  n  mother  (vii.  81, 
4  :  tatyut  la  rainoWiJah  Xmaht  r<nj,vh  tyGma  mtilur  na  itinarai). 

In  x.  53,  8,  the  souls  of  the  departed  arc  said  to  go  to  the  sun  and 
to  Ushas. 


196 


METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  USHAS. 


Uikat,  as  rtpruenttd  in  the  hymn*, — a  wtrical  sltUh. 

In  the  following  verses  I  hare  attempted  to  reproduce  the  most 
striking  ideas  in  tho  hymns  to  TTahas,  which  have  been  quoted  above. 
It  will  be  Been  on  comparison  that  there  is  little  in  these  line*  of 
v,  hi<  li  the  pcrtn  will  not  bo  found  in  the  originals,  though  some  of  the 

[£MI  li:i\e  bi.'t-n  •'\])OIlM  Btd  tiniilili.ii. 

Hail,  Ushas,  daughter  of  the  sky, 

W2lf|  burnt-  upon  thy  shining  car 

By  ruddy  steeds  from  realms  afar, 
And  ever  lightening,  drawest  ntffa : — 

Thou  sweetly  soulost,  goddess  fair, 

Disclosing  all  thy  youthful  grace. 

Thy  bosom  bright,  thy  radiant  foce, 
And  lustra  of  thy  golden  hair ; — 

(So  shines  a  fond  and  winning  bride, 
"Who  robes  her  form  in  brilliant  guise, 
And  to  her  lord's  admiring  eyes 

1 1 i  jilays  her  charms  with  conscious  prido  ;— 

Or  virgin  by  her  mother  decked, 
Who,  glorying  in  her  beauty,  shews 
In  every  glance,  her  power  she  knows 

All  eyes  to  fix,  all  hearts  subject ; — 

Or  actress,  who  by  skill  in  song 

Ami  dunrc,  and  graceful  gestures  light, 
And  many-coloured  vestures  bright, 

Enchant*  the  eager,  guziug  throng ; — 

Or  maid  who,  wont  her  limbs  to  lave, 
In  »omc  cool  stream  among  the  woods, 
Where  never  vulgar  eye  intrudes, 

Emerges  fairer  from  the  wave) ; — 

But  closely  by  the  amorous  sun 
Pursued,  and  vanquished  in  the  race, 
ThOU  soon  art  looked  in  bis  embrace, 

And  with  him  blendcst  into  one. 


METRICAL  SKETCH  OP  USHA8. 

Fair  Ushas,  though  through  years  untold 
Thou  host  lived  on,  yet  thou  art  bora 
Anew  on  each  succeeding  morn, 

And  v>  thou  art  hoth  young  and  old. 

As  in  thy  fated  ceaseless  course 
Thou  riscet  on  us  day  by  day, 
Thou  wearcst  all  our  lire*  away 

"With  silent,  ever- wasting,  farce. 

Their  round  our  generations  run : 
The  old  depart,  and  in  their  place 
Springs  over  up  a  younger  race, 

"Whilst  thou,  immortal,  lookest  on. 

All  those  who  watched  for  thee  of  old 
Arc  gone,  and  now  't  ia  wo  wlio  gnzo 
On  thy  appnutrh  ;  iu  future  day* 
Shall  other  men  thy  beams  behold- 
But  *t  is  not  thoughts  so  grave  and  sad 
Alouo  that  thou  dost  with  thee  bring, 
A  shadow  o'er  our  heart*  to  fling ; — 
Thy  beams  returning  nuke  u  glad. 

Thy  sister,  sad  and  sombre  Night 

With  stare  that  in 

Liku  slcvplett  cyo*  mysterious  glam> , 
At  thy  approach  ia  quenched  in  light ; — 

And  earthly  forms,  till  now  concealed 
Behind  her  veil  of  dusky  hue, 
Onco  more  come  sharply  out  to  view, 

By  thine  illuming  glow  revealed. 

Thou  art  tho  life  of  all  that  liven, 

The  breath  of  all  that  breathes ;  the  light 
Of  thee  make*  every  countenance  bn, 

Half  strength  to  every  spirit  gives. 


181 


MCTBICAL  SKETCH  OP  U3IIAS. 


When  thou  dost  pierce  the  murky  gloom, 
Bird*  flutter  forth  from  every  brake, 
All  sleepers  m  from  death  awake, 

And  men  their  myriad  tasks  resume. 

Some,  prosperous,  wnko  in  listless  mood, 
And  others  every  nerve  to  strain 
The  goal  of  power  or  wealth  to  gain, 

Or  what  they  deem  the  highest  good. 

But  some  to  holier  thoughts  aspire, 
In  hymns  the  race  celestial  praise. 
And  light,  on  human  hearths  to  bluzc, 

The  hettveu-born  uucrificial  Fire. 

Ami  not  alone  do  bard  and  priest 

Awake ; — the  gods  thy  power  confess 
By  starting  into  com*  iousnese 

"When  thy  first  rays  suffuse  the  east; 

And  hasting  downward  from  the  sky, 
They  visit  men  devout  and  good, 
Consume  their  consecrated  food, 

And  all  their  longings  satisfy. 

Bright  goddess,  lot  thy  genial  rays 
To  us  bring  stores  of  envied  wealth 
In  kine  and  steeds,  and  sons,  with  health, 

And  joy  of  heart,  and  length  of  days. 


109 


SECTION  XIII«. 


AGS  I. 

Agni  is  the  god  of  fire,  the  Ignis  of  tho  Latin*,'"  the  Ogni  of  the 
Slavonians.     He  is  one  of  tho  most  prominent  deities  of  tho  Rig-rods, 
as  the  hymns  add  rosed  to  him  far  exceed  in  number  those  which  are 
devoted  to  the  celebration  of  any  other  divinity,  with  the  sole  ex- 
ion  of  Ludra. 

(1)  JZi*  funetimt. 

Ajrni  is  not,  like  the  Greek  Hephaistos,  or  the  Latin  Vulcan, 
the  artificer  of  the  gods  (an  effleo  which,  as  wo  shall  presently 
■ec,  is  in  the  Veda  assigned  to  Tvush,ri),  but  derives  Ma  principal 
importance  from  his  oonnection  with  the  ceremonial  of  sacrifice. 
He  is  an  immortal  {amrita,  amartya)  i.  44,  6  ;  i.  58,  1  j  ii.  10, 
1,  8  ;  iii.  2,  11  ;  iii.  3,  1  ;  iii.  11,  2;  iii.  27,  5,  7 ;  vi.  9,  4  ; 
Tji.  4,  4;  viii.  60,  11  ;  x.  79,  I,  who  has  taken  np  his  abode 
among  mortals  as  their  guest  (atilM),  i.  44,  4  ;  i.  58,  6;  ii.  -1.  I  : 
iii.  2,  2 ;  iv.  1,  20  ;  t.  1,  8 ;  v.  8.  2 ;  v.  18,  1 ;  vi.  2,  7  ;  ri.  15, 
1,  4  ;  rii.  8,  4  ;  viii  7.5,  1  ;  x.  1,  5 ;  I.  91,  2  ;  x.  92,  1.  Ho  U 
the  domestic  priest,  purohita,  rrtry,  hotri,  brahman,  who  wakes  with 
the  dawn  (tuharbtulh),  or  eren  before  the  dawn  {vhatah  pitrohi(am) 
I.  1.1;  i,  13,  1;  i.  IS)  1,4;  i.  20,  7;  L  36,  3.  5;  i.  11.7,  12;  L  45, 
7  ;  i.  58,  I,  6;  i.  60,  4;  i.  68,  4,  (7);  L  76,  2,  4 ;  i.  127,  1  ;  i.  141, 
149,4,5;  5.6,1|  ii-6,  6;  ii.  9,  1;  iii.  7,  9;  iii.  10,2,7; 
in.  II,  1;  iii.  14,  1;  iii.  19,  1;  it.  1,  8 ;  v.  II,  2 J  v.  26,  7;  ri.  15, 
1,4,  16;  vi.  16,  1 ;  Tii.  7,  5  ;  vii.  in,  5 ;  vii.  11,  1  ;  Tii.  16,  5,  12 ; 
Tiii.  44,  6  ;    viii.  49,  I  ;   ix.  66,  20;su  x.  I,  6;   x.  92,  2,  appointed 

■*  Ob  lb"  wonliip  »f  flr*  among  tho  Creek*  and  Honuns  ice  the  volume  ot  M. 
PMfal  da  CoalanftM,  entitled  "  La  Cite  Antique."  pp.  91  ff. 

■  ii  tins  rene  be  b  ailed  a  risbi,  at  well  on  a  priest,  commnn  to  liie  five  nons 


200 


FUNCTION'S  OP  AGNI. 


both  by  men  anil  goda,  who  concentrate*  in  bis  own  person,  ami 
exercises  in  o  higher  sense,  all  the  furious  sacrificial  offices  which  the 
Indian  ritual  assigned  to  a  number  of  different  human  functionaries, 
the  adbtaryu,  hutri,  potri,  titshfri,  praiuttri,  etc.  (i.  94,  6 ;  ii.  I,  2;  ii. 
5,  2  ff. ;  iv.  9,  3,  4  ;  x.  2,  1  (piprlhi  dcr&n  uiiio  yaeiihfha  nivdm 
pitUn  ritupaia  yajeka  \  ye  dakyuh  pitnjat  tebhir  Agne  ttaA  kotrlaan 
(Mi  dyajuhikak  \  "  satiate  and  worship  here  the  longing  gods,  o  moat 
youthful  deity,  knowing  the  proper  seasons,  and  along  with  the 
divine  priests,  for  thou,  Agui,  art  tho  most  adorable  of  hotris"); 
x.  91,  8-11  (Agniih  hotnram  paribh&lamam  rnahm,  "Agni,  tho  wise; 
tho  most  eminent  of  hotris."  Ho  ia  a  sage,  tbo  divincst  among 
sages  (aturo  nipaiekitam,  iii,  3,  4),  intimately  acquainted  with  all 
tho  forma  of  worship,  the  wise  direotor,  tho  successful  accomplishes 
and  tho  protector,  of  ull  ceremonies,  who  enablea  men  to  serve  the 
gods  in  a  correct  and  acceptable  manner,  in  cases  where  this  would 
bo  beyond  their  own  unaided  skill,  i.  1,  4  (Aon*  yam  ymjnam  adk- 
tarath  viiralah  paribhar  an  J  n  id  devethu  gachhaii  |  "Agni,  that 
[oo  which  thou  encom  posses  t  on  every  aido  goes  to  tho  gods"); 
i.  31,  1  ((vain  Agne  prathamo  Angirdh,  rithir  dero  detunam  abhatalf 
iieak  takha  |  "Agni,  thou  art  tho  first  rishi  Angirns,  a  god,  the 
auspicious  friend  of  gods");  iii.  8,  8  (tidatkatya  t&dkanam  |  "The 
occomplisher  of  the  ceremony");  iii.  21,  3  (rithih  tretkfkak  tomi- 
dhyau  yajnatya  pr&vitd  bhava  |  "Thou  art  lighted,  a  most  eminent 
riBhi;  protect  the  sacrifico'');  iii.  27,  2  (tcipaithitam  yajnatya  tiid- 
hanam  \  7.  Puratldd  tti  mdyayd  vidathiini  praekodayan  |  S.  "  The 
sago,  tho  aceouiplixher  of  the  «aerifice.  7.  He  goes  before,  by  bis 
wondrouB  power  promoting  tho  ceremonies");  ri.  14,  2  {ttdhottamak 
fithih) ;  vii.  4,  4  (kavir  akacithu  praohetGh  \  "  Wise  among  the  foolish ; 
and  intelligent");  x.  2,  4  (yai  to  tayam praminuma  rratuni  cidtukdm 
drrAh  acidtuJifarflsah  \  Agnit  tad  xiieam  0  pfiniiti  ridvun  yrbhir  d*T<lm 
filubhih  kalpaydti  \  5.  Tat  p&katra  mantua  d'inadaktfiAk  na  yajnanjm 
manvale  martyutah  |  Agnit  tad  hotd  kratuvid  vijunan  yeji*k(ko  decdn 
rituio  yaj&li  |  4.  "Agni,  knowing  what  seasons  to  assign  to  the 
rectifies  all  those  mistakes  which  we  ignorant  men  commit 
your  prescriptions,  o  yo  roost  wise  gods,  5.  Those  matters  relating  to 
tho  sacrifice  which  we  mortals  of  feeble  intellects,  with  our  imperfect 
comprehension,   do  not  understand,  may  Agni,  the  venerated  pr 


FUNCTIONS  OF  AONI. 


SOI 


■who  knows  all  these  point*,  adjust,  and  worship  the  Rods  at  the  proper 
time");  x.  91,  3  {Ague  kacik  kdvytn*  ati  viineii).  To  him  the 
attention  of  tho  worshippers  is  turned,  us  men's  eyes  are  to  the  sun, 
t.    1,    4   (Agnim   achha   dermy  m/Mlt    chakthQmtki   in   itiryr 

mA  ckaranti).  lie  is  the  father,  king,  ruler,  banner,  or  outward 
manifestation,"*  and  superintendent  of  sacrifices  and  religious  dutift 
[ktlum  yajnaniim  \  pita  t/ajntlnain  |  kttur  adhvarGnam  \  r&janam  adk- 
taratya  |  adhyak*ham  dharmnnnm  imam  \  lit  yo  ciivxtyak  d*mc\1fk, 
iii.  3,  3,  4 ;  iii.  10,  4  ;  iii.  11,  2  ;  iv.  3,  1  ;  vi.  2,  3  ;  riii.  43,  24  ; 
x.  I,  6  j  x.  6,  3).  He  i*  alao  the  religious  leader  or  priest  of 
the  gods  (tadyo  jdto  pi  amimlta  yajnam  Agnir  dttundnt  abhacat 
ftmgtik  |  Agnir  devo  decGnum  abhavat  purokitah,  x.  110,  11  ;  x. 
150,  4.  He  is  a  swift  (ragkupalta™  x.  6,  4)  messenger,  moving  be- 
tween hearen  and  earth,  commissioned  both  by  gods "•  and  by  men  to 
maintain  their  mutual  communications,  to  announce  to  the  itntuurtuls 
the  hymns,  and  to  convey  to  them  tho  oblations,  of  their  worshippers, 
or  to  bring  them  down  from  tho  sky  to  the  place  of  sacrifice  (**  dttGn 
d  ika  takikati  |  Agnim  dulam  crinlmakt  |  imam  a  *u  team  atmdkam 
tarn'm  g.lyatram  nacyHmtam  Agnt  dttt»hu  prarothak  \  dtt&tat  frd  Varum* 
ilitro  Aryamd  tarn  datam  pratnam  indkate  |  dilo  tiidm  ati  |  patir  hi 
odhrarCiniim  Agne  data  tiidm  ati  |  yad  dtttin&tn  mitramahab  purekUa 
'ntare  ydti  datyam  |  Jfdm  dutam  aratim  hacyatilham  detak  alj-invann 
mmritatya  n&hhim  \  imam  no  yajnam  amritrthu  dhtki  |  anlar  lyaa  ersuAd 
yujuno  yuthmAmi  cha  davdm  riiah  u  cha  tnartdn  |  tcAmAgne  lamidkdnam 
yaritkfkya  dtvak  dalam  chakrire  hatyatdkanam  |  tcdtTt  tiht  tajothatak 
devato  ditan  akrata  |   tcdm  da  tarn  Agns  apifitam  y»g«  yugt  dadkin 


"*  Hi»  father  bfgot  him  (Janita  fro  j'ajaaa)  to  he  tho  r:  relation  and  brilliaul 
banaar  of  all  mcriflce*.  With  the  i<hn*e,jamti  t™  jw'tta,  compart  tat  expetanoos 
in  i.  20,  9,  alio  relating  to  Ajrni,  nnd  in  it.  17,  4,  relating  to  ladra. 

»'•  Compare  til*  ngknrarlamm  nlkam  of  the  Xitiat,  B.V.  riii.  0,  8. 

111  Taitt.  Sanh.  ii.  5,  9,  6.  Afnir  itrinam  dul.tk  «U  Liana  Savyv  'wrinani  | 
"  Agai  was  the  neaemger  of  die  gods  Xirja  Ui'anas  td  the  aeuras."  Ibid.  ii.  6, 
1 1 .  h.  Agnir  faaniim  ttitttik  •life"  Datvyo  'mramim  |  "  Agni  wb*  the  maaaenrer  of 
the  gads,  Dairya  of  the  Aiunu."  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  4,  1,  <J.  o  Unlwm  Afmr  aVrywM 
Ulim*  |  lisem  ui  Uhiur  Ufa  utmr  Af**  \  trsm  psMkik  sAaaati  rfoayaaa|  |  trayi 
jlfut  pri.\(luA  nff»  aruAtm*  |  «/Ao  rf«*i*  mdAtmadam  matUm*  J  "Agni  rtrrtchad 
oat  Um  otlettkl  bond ;  the*  art  oar  bond  and  our  bridge,  o  Agni ,  than  art  the  pata 
he  dim  to  tho  fnds.  Bj  thee  nuj  we  aecead  to  the  aummit  of  hcarcu,  and  lire  la 
hilarity  among  the  gods." 


fifM  Mfnnn  dn&tai  eha  tnortatas  ihajrigricin  priimm  rupaiuk  mamaM 
m  aMirs  |  dexan  d  mldayud  Hut  |  dot*  cfalmZa  &u  mmrtyHn&m  omtor 
i  eJurmti  rocJutnttw  yam  ted  dttdk  dadkirt  karyatdkam  pmtuffika 
yajttrun  |  i.  12,1,2,4,  8;  i.  27.4;  i.  56,3,4,5;  i.  44.  2. 
1,  5,  9,  12;i.46,l;L74t4,7;i.  188.1;  ii.  C.  G.  7  ;  ii.  9,  2;  ii.  10,  6; 
iiL  6,  S ;  iii.  6,  8 ;  iii.  9,  8  ;  iii.  11,  2;  iii.  17,4  :.  5;  it.  1. 

8;    ir.  2,  3;    ir.  7,  8;    iv.  8,  2,  4  ;    v.  8,  6;    r.  21,  3;   ri.  15,  8-10; 
TiL  11,  4;    riL  16,  4 ;  Tii.  17,  6;  TiiL  19,  21  ;  riii.  23,  18,  19 ;  tin 
39.1,9;    viii.   44,3;    X.  4,2;    x.  46,10;    x.  91,11;    x.    123,7). 
Bwng  acquainted  with  the  inncrmoet  recesses  of  the  sky  (iv.  8,  3.  S* 
ii  nda  tMMu-dhitim  mahdn  dndhanatk  dirak  |  ta  d*rdn  a  iAa  fwhAitf  | 
4.  Sa  kot&  j*  id  u  datyaA  ctoiittan  antar  iyat*  |),  he  is  veil  fitted  to 
tetutlK'  herald  of  men  to  nummon  the  gods  to  the  sacrifices  instituted 
in  their  honour.     He  come*  with  them  seated  on  the  same  car  (iii  4, 
1 1 ;  rii.  11, 1,  d  tUtMih  lartttimA  yfihi  dtcaih),  or  in  advance  of  them 
(4  dft6imm  agray&tA  ii*  ydlu  \  x.  70,  2} ;  and  shares  in  the  reremwa 
and  adoration  which  they  receive  (i.  86,  4 ;  ii.  2, 1).    He  brings  Varuos 
to  the  ceremony,  indra  from  the  «ky,  the  XTuruU  from  the  air  [x.  70, 
11,  d  Agne  nha  Farvnsm  ukfaye  nah  hdraSi  din  Morula  tnlertkthdt). 
He  mokes  the  oblations  fragrant,  x.  15,  12  -  Vaj.  8.  xix.  66  (71mm 
JLpu    il'ta  jattndo  mead  imydni  ntraii'mi   kritvi).      Without  him 
the  gods  experience  do  satisfaction  (rii.  11,  1,  na  riU  lead  amritai 
mddsymU).     He  himself  offers  them  worship  (rii.   11,  8  ;  riii.  91, 
16  ;    x.  7,  fi).      lie  is  sometimes  deseribed  as  the  mouth   and   the 
tongue  through  which  both  gods  and  men  participate  in  the  sacri- 
fiees  (ii.  1,  13.  tvGm  Agns  QdityOta^  OtyaH  tvGf*  jdmilik  ivtkaytd  eia- 
triri  tan  |  14.  Tve  Agne  tike  amritdiah  adrakah  6*6  devfih  harir  adn, 
Ahutmm  |  tcmyd  martdMh  uadante  dnilim).     He  is  elsewhere  asked 
eat  the  offerings  himself  (iii.  21,  1  ff. ;  iii.  28,  l>6.  Agne  tlhi  pttrola, 
ahultun),  and  invited  to  drink  the  Boma-juico  (i.  14,  10;  L  19,  9; 
1,  3.   Viktbhih  eomyam  madku  Agne  Indiena  Fdyuna  ptba). 
The  filet  hymn  of  the  tenth  book  contains  a  dialogue  between  A 
aud  the  other  goda,  in  which  they  giro  utterance  to  their  desire  that 
he  would  come  forth  from  his  dork  place  of  concealment  in  the  waters 
and  the  plants,  and  seek  to  persuade-  him  to  appear  and  convey  to  them 
I  ho  customary  oblation*  (vorso  5 :  ehi  manur  devayur  yajn*knm»  aran- 
kfilya  iai/HW  h*ht*hi  Ague  \  eugun  palhah  krinsihi  devaytindn  pais 


FUNCTIONS  OF  AG XI. 


'J.. a 


y&ni  tunanaayamdjuk).  After  he  has  expressed  the  grounds  of  his 
reluctance  and  apprehension,  (versos  4,  6),"'  ho  is  induced  by  tha  prc- 
miso  of  long  life  and  a  share  in  the  sacrifice  to  nceedo  to  their  request 
(varao  6.  Kumia*  U  &yur  ajaram  gad  Agna  yaikd  yukta  j&tauio  na 
ritkydk  |  aiha  tahati  tumanutyamiino  bhugaih  dettbhyo  kariikak  aujGla). 
la  tiio  noxt  fallowing  hymn  (the  52nd)  Agni  proclaims  hinuclf  the 
matter  of  the  ceremonies,  declares  himself  ready  to  obey  tha  commands 
of  the  gods,  solicits  a  share  in  the  sacrifice  for  himself,  and  asks  how 
and  by  what  path  he  can  bring  them  the  oblations  (rente  I-  I 'the  dttdk 
ittiana  ad  yatktl  iha  kota  tfila  manavai  ya»  nUkady*  |  pra  me  brut-a 
kkdgaJkeyam  yatkd  w>  yarn  palfui  hat  yam  to  zahilni  |  2.  Attain  kota  n» 
atldam  gajlyun  r**c«  narulo  m<S  j'unauti).  Agni  is  the  lord,  protector, 
and  leader  of  the  people,  viipali,  viiiik  gapa,  tiiUm  puraeU  (i.  12,  2; 
i.  20,  7;  i.  SI,  It;  L  96,  4;  ii.  1,  8  ;  iii.  11,  5);  the  king  or  monarch 
of  men  (rdi'S  Ariihllntiirt  o$i  montuktmim  |  rty'dnam  \  *«mr>'ijaik  thar- 
tkaitlndM  |  tiidm  rijanam  \  L  5*,  8 ;  ii.  1,8;  iii.  10,  1  ;  v.  4,  1  ;  vi. 
7,  1  i  rii.  S,  I ;  viii.  411,  24).  Ho  is  also  the  lord  of  the  house,  grika- 
pati,  dwelling  in  every  abode  {yak  paneka  ekartkanir  abki  ni  that/Ida  Jama 
dams  katir  gfikapatir  gwlt  \  i.  12,  6 ;  i.  36,  5 ;  i.  60,  4  ;  t.  8,  2  ;  rii. 
15,  2).     He  is  a  brilliant  guest  in  every  house ;  dwells  in  every  wood 


"'  Verse  Sunt  follows :  Agiuh  pirx*  bhrotant  *r  thorn  item  rtlStt.itktnnum  anm 
ararrtuk  |  fu»i<  Mi'yu  Karma  durum  Tiyam  jauro  na  ktktjmor  »ri/r/yrt»/r)A  |  "Agni'i 
former  brothers  hst*  sought  this  goal,  ss  s  charioteer  paste*  alonj*  •  road.  Bat 
fearing  this  journey,  o  Vanina,  I  went  to  a  distant  plso«,  and  trvmblcd  like  •  wild  ball 
which  qaskes  nt  the  sound  of  tho  huntsman's  bowstring."  It  in  clear  from  n 
thst  Ago!  mesa*  that  his  brother*  had  never  returned,  sad  that  ho  (ears  a  similar 
fete.  The  following  pasaagn  e>r  the.  Tait.  Sanh.,  ii.  0,4,1,  stwm«  to  Its  fonmhil 
ran* :  Ayr**  trayojyayalkn  ihratanA  aunt  |  U  tUvtihy*  Aavyam  rtlamltk  prami. 
ynnta  \  to  'ynir  ahiljkni  i//Ui  mm  »y«  irtim  untiytli  iii  *d  ntCiyit*  |  »  'pah 
prmriiat  |  tarn  aeraiiM  pr*i*A*m  oie/iAom  |  Mm  maUyk  pmkravh  |  tarn  •unp-d 
"  dJti f/Htof*  Ira  vJhy'uur  y*  ma  friiwk&h  "  iii  |  totmaj  m*tr?*m  dkiyndhifi 
$ Ammf i  |  Uptak  »i  |  tarn  awvaciWuN  |  Mm  sir ihvsjwi  -  *pa  imA  iJparfMjtvs  karymn 
m  rtJu"  iti  |  to  'bratld  "varum  rrimai  y*J  m>*  ffiktituy*  oAuTsjy  MvkmtrtJIki 
tktntlt  Urn  sw  tJtritrlQam  kKig*dk^4m  tad"  iti  j  "  Agni  had  three  eMar  brothet*. 
*h«  di*d  while  csjttuik  obUlmat  to  the  gait.  Agni  fosrtnt  lest  b*  should  incur  tini 
fciint  ute,  and  aooordingly  lie  disuppesred,  snd  entered  iniu  the  waters.  Tha  goda 
■ooght  to  diacorer  him.  A  fish  pointed  him  out,  Agui  carted  the  uih,— '  Siuee 
thaw  boat  pointed  ma  out,  mar  men  slay  thee  whenever  tlitr  "ill."  Men  in  cranio- 
cjaeaee  alar  a  fish  at  their  plaaarjr*.  becaow  it  was  carard.  (The  pxli)  found  Agni, 
and  taiil  to  him,  '  Come  to  nt  and  tmnp  tin  our  oblations.'  Ho  rrplii-J,  <  L*t  ma  ask 
a  btToasr;  let  whaterer  part  of  the  prtwuiital  oblstious  talle  outaido  of  the  atcrrd 
aadoaare  be  the  alaare  of  mr  brothers.'  " 


204  BIRTnS  AN'D  TRIPLE  EXISTENCE  OP  ACS!. 

like  a  bird ;  friendly  to  mankind,  lie  despises  no  nun  ;  kindly  disposed 
to  the  people,  he  lire*  in  the  midst  of  every  family,  x.  91 ,  2  (m  dmrim- 
tairtr  atithir  grih*  gr>k*  «>«*  i*JM  iitriye  takravlr  ita  |  jatutl*  janaA 
jitnya  nfitimanyatc  viiak  a  k*heti  tiiyo  riiait  riiam).  lie  is  s  father, 
mother,  brother,  son,  kinsman,  and  friend  (d  ki  tma  tunar*  pita  ipir 
yajali  (kpayt  takkd  nakkye  tarenyak  \  team  pita  '$i  no*  Ivaih  vmymtkfit 
lava  j&maya  vayam  \  team  j&mir  janandm  Ague  mitre  ati  priyaA  |  talki 
wkhibhyah  Idyak  |  tvdm  Agnt  piUram  itkfibhir  narak  trim  bkr&tr&y* 
iamyd  tauurtuham  \  tvatn  putro  bkaeaii  yat  U  'eidkat  \  pita  mitd  tadam 
in  mxinushanilm  \  Agm  bhrAtah  \  Agnim  manyt  piUirtim  Agnim  fipim 
Agnim  bhrataram  tadam  it  nakhayam  |  i.  26,  3 ;  i.  3 1, 1 0,  14,  1 6 ;  L  75,  4 ; 
i.  IQ1,  I;  ii.  1,9;  vi.  1,5;  v. 4,  2;  viii.  43,  16;  viii.  64, 16;  x.  7,3);  sod 
some  of  his  worshippers  claim  with  him  a  hereditary  frienil- 
10.  M&  no  Agne  wkhyil  pitryfigi  pro  marshi-ikfhdk).  He  drives  sway 
and  destroys  Rakshasos  or  Asuras  (budkatra  dciifto  rattkato  amtc&h  | 
pra  Agnayo  viicaiwha  dkiyamdhe  aturaghne  |  Agnxk  rakthamti  taikati  | 
iii.  15,  1 ;  vii.  13,  1 ;  vii.  15,  10;  viii.  23,  13;  viii.  43,26;  x.  87,  L| 
x.  187,  3).  In  hymn  x.  87,  he  is  invoked  to  protect  tho  sacrifice 
(verse  9.  tfkthnena  Agne  ekakthushi  rakiha  yajnam),  and  to  ftonwtnft 
the  ttakshasee  and  Yatudhanss  with  hia  iron  teeth  and  by  the  most 
terrible  mnnifestations  of  his  fury  (verse  2.  Ayodowbfro  artJ>uki  ydtu- 
dk&mli*  upa  tpriia  jtilacedak  tamidJhah  |  verse  5.  Agnt  trotka*' 
dhmtuya  bhindhi  Mftlffl  'ianir  karatS  bantu  tiwm  |  verse  14.  Pari  iri- 
nlhi  tapm&  yfttudh&n&n  part  'gn*  raksho  hsruA  irinlki  |). 

(2)  Agtii'i  birth,  and  triple  exittmea. 

Various,  though  not  necessarily  inconsistent,  accounts  are  given  in 
the  hymns  of  the  birth  of  Agni.  Sometimes  a  divine  origin  is  ascribed 
to  him,  while  At  other  times  his  production,  or  nt  least  his  mani- 
festation, is  ascribed  to  the  use  of  the  ordinary  human  appliances. 
,  Thus  he  is  said  to  have  at  first  existed  potentially  bnt  not  actually  in 
the  sky,  x.  6,  7  (quoted  above  in  p.  51);  to  have  been  brought  from 
the  sky,  or  from  afar,  by  Miitarisvan  ""  (d  amyam  [Agniii]  dito  Matm- 

"•  In  Bohtlinfck  and  Roth's  lexicon,  *.t.  Mataris'ran  is  said  (1)  to  doaoU  a  divine 
bciajf,  who,  u  the  measenfjer  of  Vivasvat,  brings  down  from  heate*  to  the  Bhrign* 
Agni,  who  bad  Wore  bran  concealed ;  tad  (3)  to  be  a  wcrct  nimo  of  A  cm ,  *n<i  it 
is  remarked  that  tho  word  rannut  be  certainly  shewn  by  any  teat  to  be  in  the  Vcdis 


BIRTI1S  AND  TRirLE  EXISTENCE  OF  ACM. 


205 


riiiujabhiira  \  to  jSyam&na^  parame  ryomani drir  Agnir  alharam lluta- 
rikana  |  i.  60,  I ;  i.  93,  6;  i.  H3,  2 ;  iii.  5,  10 ;  iiL  9,  5 ;  vi.  8,  4); 
to  hare  beea  generated  bj  India  between  two  clouds  or  atone*  (ye 
aimanor  anlsr  agnim  jaj'dna,  ii.  12,  3);  to  hove  bcou  generated  by 
Dyaue,  z.  45,  8  [Agmr  inwrifo  abhatad  vayobhir  yad  enarn  Dyaur  janayat 
mntai) ;  to  be  tbe  son  of  Dyaus  and  Prithivl,  iii.  2, 2 ;  iii.  26, 1  ( Agna 
DwaA  tUnur  cti praehetu  tana  J'fithiryah  uta  tiitactdah) ;  x.  1,  2 ;  z. 
2,  7  {yam  M  Dy&taprithicl  yaih  ltd  ipa»  Traihfd  yam  Ird  iuja  nimd 
fojama);  z.  140,  2;  whom  bo  magnified,  or  delighted,  at  [or  by]  hut  birth, 
iii.  3, 1 1  {vbkd  pitarA  mahayann  oj&yata Agnir  Dytivapfithkl  bharirtUuti). 
Hi*  production  is  alto  Raid  to  be  due  to  tbe  waters  (z.  2,  7 ;  z.  91,  6),'" 
and  to  Trasbtri  (i.  95,  2 ;  x.  2,  7).  He  is  elsewhere  said  to  have  been 
generated  by  the  Dawns,  vii.  78,  3  ([  U*ha*o]  ajljanan  KiryaM  Yajnai* 
Agnim) ;  by  Indra  and  Vishnu,  vii.  99, 1  {[Indr&cuhna]  ttrufit  YajnUya 
(Aathatkur  u  lokam  jamyanta  Saryam  Uahatam  Agnim) ;  generated  or 


hymn*.  •  syn<mynio  of  Viyu.  I  add  lomc  obstrrationi  on  thn  same  subject,  which 
had  been  nods  at  an  earlier  period  by  Professor  Roth,  in  his  illustrations  of  the 
I,  p.  113,  where  he  »  elucidating  R.V.  ri.  8, 4  («  Matorisroa,  the  meesMiger 
«f  Vivasvai,  brought  Agni  Vai/vfinara  from  afar")  :  "  The  explanation  of  MiUru-'- 
T*n  as  Varu"  (which  is  given  Irj-  YOskn)  "cannot  be  justified  by  the  Vcdie  text*, 
and  rest*  only  upon  the  etymology  of  the  root  »Vw.  Tbe  numerous  passage*  where 
th»  word  is  mm  boned  in  tha  Rig-reds  exhibit  it  in  two  Sanaa*.  Somutiiui-*  it  daoota* 
Agni  histMlf,  as  in  th*  texts  i.  06,  3,  4  J  iii.  29.  4  (11  (?;  x.  114.  1,  etc. ;  at  other 
time*,  tbo  Wing  who,  oa  another  PYonsetheas,  fetch**  down  from  heaven,  from  tha 
rod*,  the  fire  which  bad  vanished  from  the  rarth,  and  brine*  it  to  the  Boric**, 
i.80,  l;  L  93,  0;  iii.  2,  13;  iii  j.  10  .  iii.  »,  4.  To  think  of  this  bringer  of  Are 
a*  a  nun.  s*  a  asge  nf  antiquity,  who  bad  laid  hold  of  the  lightning,  and  placed  it 
cat  the  altar  and  the  hcirth.  u  forbidden  by  those  teits  which  speak  of  him  a*  bring- 
ing it  froes  heaven,  not  to  mention  other  grounds.  X»  Prometheus  belong*  tu  th* 
aaptrhvaton  clasa  of  Titans,  and  is  only  by  this  means  enabled  to  fetch  down  tha 
•park  from  heaven,  eo  mast  Matarutran  be  reckoned  a*  belonging  to  thoaa  racea  of 
infllljsli.  who,  in  the  Vcdic  legends,  are  sometime*  represented  as  living 
society  of  the  god*,  and  somolittn*  a*  dwelling  upon  earth.  As  he  bring*  the  fire  to 
the  Bhrigna,  it  is  mid  of  these  lost,  that  thoy  bar*  communicated  fire  to  men  (*.*  ,  in 
i.  6U.  C),  and  Agni  is  called  the  son  or  llhrigu  (Wr7»«M;.  Matarii'raa  alsa 
ma*t  be  reckoned  a*  belonging  to  this  haJf-divino  raos."  .  ..."  It  may  also  be  ra*s- 
taoned  that  the  aaas*  function  of  bringing  down  nrc  ia  aacribed  in  on*  text  (vi.  14, 
13)  to  Atharran,  whose  name  Is  connected  with  fire,  lilo  that  of  Mitaristaa ;  and  alto 
thai  tha  sifter*  of  Atharran  are  called  Mdlorisvarli  in  s.  120,  9."  8ee  my  article 
en  Mann  in  vol.  xx.  of  the  J  ours.  R.A.8.,  p.  IK,  note.  In  one  place  (vtL  15.  4) 
■  called  tbo  falcon  of  the  sky  (aVwoA  •>*■»•*). 
■  A.V.  L  33.  1.  Mttanftrarmih  «*«A«)r*A  pirtkolf  yoew  jittk  SwitS  yirm 
Aj*\h  |  V'A  Afn'im  aorM***  4adhiri  itniirtfii  ti)f  n*)f  3*<s|  i«  syenu^  eiatan/sj. 


200 


BIKTHS  AND  TRIPLE  EXISTENCE  OF  AGNL 


fashioned  by  the  gods,  vi.  7,  1 1  (jantymta  dttdh);  viii.  91,  17  (Um 
tvd  'jimanta  m&larah  iariffi  dtrAto  angiruk);  x.  i&,  9  (<&*<!»  talmktkm- 
mana<:a  yajalram)  •  a*  a  light  to  the  Aryo,  i.  69,  3  (lam  U<i  dtoAtejmno- 
yantit  deram  raitvAnara  jyctir  id  AryAya) ;  or  placed  by  tho  goda  among 
the  descendants  of  Munu,  i.  36,  10;  ii.  4,  3  (Agni A  d*vAv>  mAniaki$)w 
vtkxhti  prii/nm  dhuh  fcuheshyattto  no  mil  ram);  vi.  16,  1;  riii.  72. 
Yet  although  flu  son,  he  i*  also  tho  father  of  the  goda,  i.  6'J,  I 
(Mure  derAnSm  pild  putrah  tan).  In  riii.  19,  33,  tho  superiority  of 
tin  Fire-god  to  oil  other  fires  is  shewn  by  their  being  declared  to  bo 
dependent  on  him  like  branches  of  a  tree  (yiuya  U  Agm  any*  ognayth 
upakthito  raydh  iva) ;  vii.  1,  H  (tia  id  Agnir  agnin  ali  atti  anyan). 

Agm  is  in  somo  passages  represented  aa  having  a  triple  existence,  by 

which  may  be  intended  his  threefold  manifestations,  as  tho  son  in 

heaven,  as  lightning  in  the   atmosphere,  and  a*  ordinary  firo  in  the 

:  h ,  although  tho  ton ■•■  lOM  are  elsewhere  othorwise  explained. 

In  X.  88,  vra  havo  tho  following  Terses : 

6  ^—  Nir.  rii.  '21).  Mitrdha  bfiuro  bhaeati  nakttim  Agnit  iatah  S*ryo 
juyaU  priitar  vdyan  \  8.  SAttaeHiam  pralJiannm  Ad  id  Agnin*  ad  id 
karir  ajanayania  dtrah  |  aa  ethAfii  yajna  abhaeat  lanipAi  ia&  .' 
reia  lam  Prilhiei  Inn  Apah  |  10  (=»  Nir.  vii.  28).  Slomena  hi  dm 
decAso  Agnin  qjijanan  iakfibhih  rodauprOm  \  lam  a  akrinran  Irtdh/l 
bhuctkamta  <n  had  to  A  pitchati  eiitarap&h  |  11  (—Nir.  vii.  29).  Ykdfd 
mam  aiaihur  yajniyuso  divi  dtvAh  Siiryam  Adittyutn  |  yadu  eharit 
milnunAv  abhatAm  Ad  it  prApaiyan  bhuvanuni  rued  \ 

"  6.  Agni  is  by  night  the  head  of  tho  earth :  then  he  is  bom 
the  Sun  rising  in  the  morning.1**  8.  Tho  gods  produced  first  the  hymn, 
then  Agni,  then  the  oblation.     H«  was  their  protecting  sacrifice  :  him 
Dyana  knows,  him  Fritbirl,  him  the  Waters.  10.  With  a  hymn  bj 
powers  the  gods  generated  Agni  who  fills  the  world* :  they  formed  him 
for  a  tlireefold  existence :  he  ripenB  plants  of  ovory  kind.     1 1    When 

*w  It  sjipows  from  Profr«mr  Aiifrrr  lit'*  ubrtrnct  of  the  contents  of  the  M  *ur». 
that,  In  HOtioo  1 l 6,  die  mil  i»  «nid  tn  *nt«*r  int..  ignj  'lurisg  rt.«  night,  and 
Ajrai  into  the  nun  br  day.  Catalognc  of  Bodl.  8*u»krit  MBS.,  p.  -tl*.  Tu«  Ait. 
Br.  viii.  28,  myt  i  aditya  rai  niitrm  yann  Ajnim  annprari{tfi  \  to'lttarMryU  (  . .  . . 
Agnir  r»i  uifi'iii  t'oyum  anvpmviiati  \  m  'mlerJMynlr  |  .  .  .  .  I'li^ix  Afmtrj&tfU 
y.nn.ul  In  4n/iiif  mtith\/atnii*a  VAi/iii/nf/  |  .  . . .  AfKtr  rai  oifityv  joyttt  |  -  Tbe  »ira, 
wlun  siting,  cnton  into  Agni  *n<l  diiopp.  in  ....  Airni,  wtion  htowing  upvarik, 
cnt«r»  Viyu,  md  dsnppMrl  ....  A^'ri  i»  pl»dl>»Sd  ben  Virn,  for  wIimi  »Uritio« 
U  Uiing  place,  lie  ii  born  from  brcatU  u  force.    The  tun  is  produced  tzvm  Agai." 


BIRTHS  AND  TRIPLE  EXISTENCE  OP  Af.XI. 


207 


the  adorable  gods  placed  him,  Sflry*  the  son  of  Aditi,  in  Uie  sk  y.  when 
the  moving  twins  came  into  being,  then  they  (the  gods)  beheld  all 
creatures." 

According  to  Yaska  (Nir.  vii.  27)  it  is  intended  in  verse  6  to  repre- 
sent the  sun  as  identical  with  Agni  ("  ta/a$  tiryo  jdyatt  pr&tar  udyan  '* 
m  era).     The  same  writer  tella  as  (Nir.  vii.  28)  that  according  to  his 
predecessor  Sakapuui  the  threefold  existence  of  Agni,  referred  to  in 
Ttrsc  8,  is  his  abode  on  earth,  in  the  atmosphere,  and  in  heaven 
;•«  tredku  "  hkdraya.  "pfilhicynm  antarikthd  diri "  >ti  S&lvpamh),  and 
adds  that  a  Bruhmarja  declares  his  third  manifestation  to  be  the  Sun 
(•'  yad  aiya  divi  tfitiyam  tad  arur  udityah  "  Hi  Ai  brahman/im).     The 
constantly  moving  twins,  mentioned  in  verse   11,  are  Ushas  and  tlio 
Sun  according  to  Yaska  (Nir.  vii.  2'J.  fitnwfa  tahochariaav  Uihai  cha 
AdUyai  cha).     Agni  would  thus  be  identified  not  only  with  Silrya  the 
celestial,  but  with   Indrn  or  Yayu,  the  aerial  or  atmospheric  deity, 
according  to  passages  of  the  Nirukta  vii.  S,  already  quoted  in  p.  8; 
and  with  Vishrju,  if  we  adopt  the  interpretation  of  that  deity's  three 
steps  givca  by  Bokupurji  iu  Nir.  xii.  Itf,  oa  rspoanded  by  the  commen- 
tator Durgacharya,  viz.  that  Vishnu  abides  on  earth  as  tarrestrial  fire, 
in  the  atmosphere  in  the  form  of  lightning,  and  in  the  sky  as  the  Sun 
('•  jyUhivj/'im  tmtmihk*  dui"   Hi  S'akapOmt,  |   p&rthiv*  y$nir  MlM 
pf%thir\/ii!%  yat  kixehid  atli  tad  rikramaU  tad  adMti»hfhati  \  anUriktfo 
taidyutHmana  din  SarytUmawl}.*1    In  R.V.  x.  45, 1,  -  Vaj.  S.  sii- 18, 
(see  also  verse  2)  a  threefold  origin  is  ascribed  to  Agni,  the  first  from  the 
heaven,  the  second  from  us  {i.e.  apparently  from  the  earth),  and  the  third 
from  the  waters,  which  may  mean  the  atmosphere *a(Ih'ta*  pari prathn* 
wutAjaJite  Agnir  atmad  dcitlyam  pari  jatacrdah  |  tritlyam  aptu).m  The 
same  three  abodes  of  Agni  an  pachsjM  MsVmd  to  ■*  in  z.  66,  1  m  S.V. 
i.  65  (idan  U  ekttm  parah  u  t«  ckam  tritiytna  jyotitha  mm  riM«ra).   In  iii. 
26, 7  (- Vaj.8.  aviiL  66),  he  is  called  aria*  Iridhatuh,  a  threefold  light,-1 

*  Qnotrd  io  tbe  4th  ml.  of  this  wort,  p.  o«. 

r3  8w  »Ih:"  .  j'   3').  note  73.     8sj  OOBSL  I  Ifl  I  .18. 

***  A  I  J*  <i  tOpsU  Aftur  Jn.uyj  «/«  .)KrtniiU«  |  Ajnim 

m*rti— A  iWAtff*  l*rf*iaham  fhfitifriy.iA.  |  "Agni  glowi  from  tn<-  »kjr;  I.. 
b*loog»  th«  brow!  sir ;  men  kindle  Agni,  Ins  btarcr  of  oblation*,  the  Jorcr  of  bult«r." 
Comport  A.V.  liii,  3,  21,  and  nSL  i,  II. 

"*  So  the  Scaoliut  on  the  SAms-reda  nmlcrttandt  the  rem,  ss  I  lrsrn  from 
rrofexor  l*rn»ev'»  not*  to  hi»  transition,  p.  JIC. 

•»  Cosnpare  A.V.  viii.  »9, 9. 


208  BIRTHS  A>D  TfilPLE  EXISTENCE  OF  AOJTI. 

in  v.  4, 8  truhadhtutha  (according  to  Suyann=fri«Atf  cHtyHditku  tlKi'nuthu 
tikila),  occupying  thrco  abodes,  and  in  riiL  39,  8  triptuthya,  having 
three  homes.  In  i.  95,  3,  he  is  said  to  hare  three  births,  one  I 
ocean,  another  in  the  sky,  and  a  third  in  the  waters  (trlni  jand  p*ri- 
Ihiukanti  tuya  Miaudrt  tiam  diet  tkam  aptu),  which  Sayoxja  understands 
1st  of  the  submarine  fire  {tadap/ituila},  2nd  of  the  tun,  and  3rd  of  the 
lightning.  He  is  elsewhere  called  dvijimnun,  having  two  births,  i.  60, 
1 1  i.  HO,  2;  i.  149,  2,  3,  which  Snyana  explains  either  as  born  of 
the  Heaven  and  Earth,  or  from  two  stioks,  or  because  he  has  one  birth 
from  the  sticks  and  a  second  when  he  is  formally  consecrated  ;  bat  is 
•aid  in  one  of  these  passages  to  dwell  in  the  three  lights  {aihi  .  .  .  tri 
roehanOni  .  .  .  atthif). 

In  ii.  9,  3,  two  places  of  birth  only  are  mentioned — an  upper 
(ptrame  jannan),  and  a  lower  {tuara  todoUhe) — which  Sayana  inter- 
prets  of  tho  sky  and  the  atmosphere;  and  in  viii.  43,  28,  in  like 
manner,  only  two  ore  alluded  to,  tho  celestial,  and  that  in  the  wakr* 
{god  Ajn*  divijuk  «»'  aptujuA  ikJ). 

In  x.  91,  fi,  as  wo  have  already  seen,  his  generation  is  ascribed  only 
to  the  waters,  the  mothers.    (Compare  iii.  1,  3  ;  iii.  9,  4.) 

In  A.  V.  iv.  39,  2,  tho  earth  is  said  to  be  a  cow,  and  Agni  her  calf 
{Prithivl  dhtuu*  tuiyHh  Agnir  ctUtah).  In  vereea  4  and  6,  Viyn  is 
said  to  be  the  calf  of  the  air,  and  Surya  of  the  sky. 

In  different  passages  the  process  of  friction,"*  by  which  tho  god  is 

>"  See  Aitarera  Br.'.hmana,  i.  10,  and  Profeeaor  Haojr'e  translation,  pp.  35  f.  I 
add  here  a  kiuLcucc  or  two  from  this  work  (Ait.  Dr.  i.  IS)  to  illuttratc  what  the  text* 
•bore  quoted  ay  of  the  power  of  Ajrni  to  hollow  all  aacriflcw,  nlthnngh  in  the  promt 
COM  •  special  rite  b  referred  to :  ta  tiki  trarypa  uhmtir  pad  Ayapahutik  \  pad*  *a 
mi  any  abrakmanakto  yurft  dttrvktakta  pajate  mtks  km  mMa  akatir  pmtkhmtp  «es*  «Cn.m 
no  pUpmana  tamifijpau  |  "The  Agni  oblation  Li  that  which  conduete  la  heavsa. 
Sica  if  •  man  who  U  called  a  do- Brahman,  or  a  pereon  of  bod  reputation,  perform  it, 
oblation  iroea  to  the  (rode,  sad  ie  unaffected  by  the  »in  (of  the  pcrforxMr)."" 
Str  Prtifmeor  llrtuz  «  trunslntion,  p.  38,  note  1 7.  The  Satapatha  Brimaoa.  ii.  3, 3. 1, 
relates  that  Agm,  when  created  by  Prajupaii,  began  to  horn  everything,  and  threw 
the  world  into  confiwion.  Thereupon  tho  creature*  who  then  existed  fought  to  crash 
him.  Not  beinjr  able  to  bear  this,  he  earao  to  a  man  and  said,  "  I  cannot  endure 
thin;  let  me  enter  into  th«.  Having  gonerati.'d  me,  nnrae  me;  and  if  Uiou  wilt  do 
thia  for  me  in  this  world,  I  will  do  the  um<  Tor  thec  in  the  next.  Tho  man  agreed 
(m  yulra  Afniiii  tarryt  m  idam  jutih  tarrum  no  AigJJuun  dadkrt  |  ify  era  anUrn 
n  a  |  tah  pai  tarki  prajTih  ante  fa*  Ao  mail  mmfuikjam  tUtlkiirt  |  *e  'liiiktkama. 
n .»  punaktM  i\a  •eAjwyuya  \  J.  S*  ka  mHaka  "immi  aham  idam  tiiUtki  ksuia 
tra  praritam  |  Urn  mi  jmwpitva  si'MpAt  |  m  yjlAaiw  mam  tram  imm  Ukwjaa*- 


finiTllS  A.VD  TRIPLE  EXISTENCE  OF  AGNI. 


20'J 


oauy  generated  by  his  worshippers,  is  described  or  alluded  to.  la 
iii.  29,  1  ft,  it  is  said  :  astidam  adhimanthanam  soli  prajancuwih  kfi- 
tarn  |  *t&n  viijM&nlm  Sbhara  Agm'm  maHlb'ma  p&rtathn  \  2.  (=8.V. 
i.  79)  Aranytr  nihito  j&taved&h  garbhah  ioa  tudhiio  garbhinithu  \  Jut 
rfi'w  fdyojdgrivadbMr  ftacithmadhhir  maniuhyibhir  Agnih  \  Z.  (  =  Vaj.  8. 
xxxiv.  H)  UtlUndydm  aea  bhara  ehikilc&n  tadyah  pravitd  vriihanaiU 
jsjUna  |  "This  process  of  friction,  of  generation,  has  begun;  bring  this 
mistress  of  the  people  (the  lower  arani,  or  wood  for  friction) ;  lot  ns  rub 
out  Agni  as  heretofore.*"    2.  This  god  is  deposited  in  the  two  pieces  of 

yilri  kkarukyati  tvtm  MS  aham  IvUrn  amtukmim  lokt  jctuiyitvn  tikiiriikyrimi"  iii  \ 
Mflafl9  "  ill  Um/JMdyi.'ra  aikiik.rk).  Herodotus,  iii.  16,  tolls  us  what  the  Egyptian* 
tbotlght  Of  Ajrni  :  Aiyvwr(aur»  !i  vtvipivra*  r&  wvp  faiflar  *\rw  Iptkuxov,  «d>r«  M 
ssir*  Kxr«riiiir  vd  wtf  if  Ao£p,  tKiiatir  si  ulrra  rnt  0oprj$  avraKaO>ifo*tf  *f 
RWvffSaaaVat, 

m  liunte.  per  (up*,  it  is  tost  Le  is  colled  dvi-mata,  bora  of  two  parents  (i.  31,  2). 

As  regards  bW/bmi9  having  a  donblo  birth  (i.  (SO,  1 ;  i.  HO,  2  ;  L  149,  4,  ft,)  see 

lie  U  *Uo  culled  kkurtjatma,  having  many  birth*  (x.  6,  1).   In  ILV.  i.  9.»,  2, 

he  u  mil  t->  be  produced  by  the  ttu  yuuug  women,  «'.;.  tlii  ten  finger*  (oWa  inii 

(natAfar  janaya*ta    </ar/ikam    ■tHaWaj   yiimfnynA).       See    Both,    fllartraUoni    of 

Niroktn,  p.  120;  Bun  fay'*  Orient  Bad  Doaidtat,  &.  016]  and  Roth's  Lexicon.  «.i*. 
(MtAfr*  sad  yi»r*/i.  b  in.  M,  3.  he  i»  called  the  ioa  of  l|u.  whatever  »cn»e  wo 
ascribe  to  this  word.  In  regard  lo  the  paxsMM  or  fjmilir*  by  whom  the  sacrificial 
lr»  is  rappo**d  lo  have  been  first  kindled,  and  the  rites  of  Aryan  worship  introduced, 
TO.,  Mann,  Aagiraa,  BhriK"-  Atlurmn,  Dadliioncti,  etc.,  see  my  paper  nn  ■  M  :nu. 
the  progenitor  of  the  Aryan  Indians,"  in  vol.  xx.  Jonra.  R.A.3.,  pp.  410-410.  I 
subjoin  some  of  tho  passage*  thai  i|i)'it«:  :  i.  3ft,  19.  -Yi  (ram  Ay»*  mnnur  daAki 
Jytttr  Jtmiya  ioirou  \  "  Mssa  hat  plaoed  thes  (here)  a  light  to  all  (generation*  of) 

men."  vsi.  2,  1.  V'nikfaJ  Ajmim  Jfamtni  mmiJJkum  mm  adkrrtn'iym  *rdam  in 
Minu  |  "  Let  us,  Lite  Munu,  ever  attract  to  the  asciil'tce  Ajrni.  who  iru  kindled  by 
Msstt."  X.  63,  7.  Ytikyo  Antrim  prathamam  Syyt  Manur  ntutiddk  <ytiir  mmm 
mj>(a  hotfibkilf  |  It  Adityiik  obhayom  iarma  yachhata  \  "  O  rr  Aility  i«,  to  whom 
M*iu,  rh«s  he  had  lighttd  Agni,  prwcutcd.  in  company  with  seven  hutri  pried*, 
*•  xili  bU  hMrt,  tho  4r*t  oblation,  bwtow  on  n*  lecur*  protoetion."     x.  69,  3.   F*j  U 

M^-ir  yarf  an'kam  $*milr*\    mm'icikf  Agnt   lad  idaSt   mm  yak  |  "That  luttrc  of 

tliinr,  o  Apii.  which  M*au.  which  Sumitri  kindled,  is  the  same  which  is  now 
reawwed."    viii.  43,13.  '  ? •$*<*(  >ntkt  Manmkvad  A}t*  ahuta  |  Anfirai. 

r*d  AmuimA*  I  •'  I-tke  Bbrtgti,  like  Manush.  like  Angira*.  we  invoke  thee  who  bast 
been  summoned  to  blaze."  vi.  16,  13.  TVont  Agn*  putkiarid  adki  Aikarra  nir 
mrnmmSkata  |    14.    Tarn  »  Ira  DaJkyauH  rukik pulrak  idki  Atkarvaruik  ,    13.  "Agni, 

Atwarvaa  drew  tbeo  forth  from  tho  lotu*  loaf.  14.  Tbct,  Dadhyanch,  the  i»a  of 
Ashman,  kindled."  x.  31,  0.  Aanit  /tin  Alkartt^i  riAut  viinini  katyi  |  Hmead 
atass  VifitalMk  |  "Agni.  prodn.-. il  by  Atharsan,  knowi  all  aripnofa.  He  ha*  ba- 
eoasa  the  sniateng-r  of  Vivasvat."  i.  08,  6.  iMdkiuk  fed  Jlkfiptr*  ma-takuku  i  | 
•TVe  Bkn^u*  luva  placfd  thae  among  snen."  x.  4(1,  2.  /Mam  fulhanU  apZZ> 
»*l*tfk*  p*J»m  n*  i*a»*fam  pmdmir  "u  gmtm  \  f*ka  ek*t**tam  m-'i/o  ntmtMir 
ieAkuMlo  dhirak  Bkrijan  ii<  imAta  1  ••  Worahippiaj,  and  deairing  him  with  obciauiocs, 

It 


210 


BIRTHS  AND  TUPLE  EXI8TEXCE  OP  AOKI. 


wood,  as  tho  embryo  in  pregnant  women.  Agni  i*  daily  to  be  landed  by 
men  bringing  oblutions  und  awaking  (early).  3.  Skilled  [in  tho  process], 
bring  [tho  upper  piece  of  wood]  into  contact  with  tho  lower,  lying 
recumbent :  being  impregnated,  she  speedily  brings  forth  tho  vigorous 
(Agni)."  ***  Compare  E. V.  i.  68,  2,  where  it  is  noticed  as  remarkable 
that  a  living  being  should  spring  out  of  dry  wood  (juthkad  yad  dew 
rfw  janMtMh);  iii.  23,  2,  8 ;  vii.  1,  1 ;  X.  49,  15  ;  x.  7,  5.  He  is 
produced  from  tho  two  Bttclre  as  a  new-born  infant,  ▼.  9,  3  (*f« 
fii*  iiiuih  yath&  navafii  jtnuhfha  ara*i);  viiL  23,  25  (samtrh 
patb*am).  Strange  to  say,  cries  the  poet,  addressing  himself  to  both 
worlds,  the  child,  as  soon  as  born,  begins  with  unnatural  Tonicity  to 
jonsnme  his  parents,  and  is  altogether  beyond  his  mortal  worshipper's 
comprehension,  x.  79,  4  (tad  trim  filaih  rodatl  prabrartmi  Jilyamdno 
mtitaru  garbho  alii  |  ntikaih  dtvatya  martyai  ehiketa).  But  when  born 
ha  is  like  tho  wriggling  brood  of  serpents,  difficult  to  catch,  t.  9,  4 
[via  tma  durgr»b]uya»«  putro  na  kvury<S*dm).  Wonderful  is  his  growth, 
und  hu  immediate  activity  as  a  messenger,  seeing  he  is  born  of  a 
mother  who  cannot  suckle  him,  x.  115,  1  [ekitrah  it  Mat  l*rm*+ty* 
takikatho  na  yo  m&tarilv  apytti  dhAUtvo  |  antidhak  yadi  fljanad  adit 
tha  mi  vacaktha  sadya  mahi  dalyath  eharan) ;  but  he  is  nourished  and 
developed  by  the  oblations  of  clarified  butter  which  are  poured  into 
his  mouth,  and  which  ho  consumes,  iii.  21,  1  {tUlatulm  agna  ntimo 
ohritasya  hoUh  prul/lna  |  "Agni,  invoker  of  the  gods,  eat  these 
portions  of  fat  and  butter ; "  sec  also  verses  2  and  3) ;  t.  11,3 
{jjhritesa  tvd  atsardhayan) ;  r.  14,  C  ;  viii.  39,  3  (Agm  mamn&m 
tubhyam  Lam  ghritath  tut  juhet  usam);  viii.  43,  10,  22;  x.  C9,  1  f. 
x.  118,  4,  6,  and  A.Y.  i.  7,  2  (Jgnt  tailatya  prQtina). 

In  iii.  26,  7,  he  himself  exclaims  "  butter  is  uay  cyo  n  (gkritem 
ekaktkuh). 


- 


the  wian  Md  longing  BhjigtiB  hare  followed  him  with  their  etcpe,  Iii*  a  lest  ■">— t, 
sad  kite  found  him  concealed  in  tha  receptacle  of  the  water*."  In  tiii.  23,  17. 
Kfivja  Ue'&naa  b  said  to  liSTe  established  Agni  to  ho  n  print  for  men  [Vitmi  A"uryw 
fro  Ml  kolaram  atadayat  |  Sjntfii  fro  tn*M*1  jolwtHaMm). 

***  The  ancient  Indians  regarded  the  upper  piece  of  wood  na  the  male,  aad  tha 
lower  ae  the  female,  factor*  in  the  generation  of  Agni.  See  tho  3rd  roL  of  this  work, 
p.  «8,  note  62. 


EliTIlETS  AND  CHARACTERISTICS  OF  AGNI. 


-211 


(3)  Hi*  tpilkti*  anil  tharacterittit*. 

His  epithets  ore  various,  sad  for  the  most  port  descri[>'.iro  of  bis 
physical  characteristic*.     Ho  is  tarpirawti,  ghrit/'mna,  buttor-fed  (ii. 
7,6;    vii.  8,  1  ;   x.  69,  2) ;   ghrila-mrnik,  butter-formed  (iii.   17,   1; 
iii.  27,  5;  x.  122,  2);  ghrila-ktia,  butter-haired  (viii.  49,  2);  ghpila- 
priAlf.rt,  butter-bnakod  (v.  4,  3 ;   ▼.  37,  I;    vii.  2,  4 ;   x.   122,  4); 
ghfitaprnOka,  gloaming  with  butter  (iii.  1,  18;  v.  11,1;   x.  21,  7); 
ghjita-ytmi,  issuing  from  butter  (v.  8,  0,  compare  ii.  3,  11);  drtanna, 
fed  by  wood  (ii.  7,  6) ;  ihama-ketu,  having  smoke  for  his  mark,  signal, 
or  ensign  (i.  27,  1 1 ;    L  44,  8 ;   i.  94,  10 ;  v.  11,3;  viii.  43,  4 ;  viii. 
44,  10;  x.  t,  5  ;  x.  12,  2) ;  he  minl.i  up  his  smoke  like  n  pillar  to  tin- 
sky,  iv.  6,  2  (metd  iva  ihQmaS\  alabh&yad  upa  dydtn);    vii.  2.  1  {upa 
tpriia    diryam    minu    ttilpaih)  ;    vii.   3,  3 ;    vii.   16,  3  (ml  dhthndro 
anuMto  dfcinpriiah  \<ttthuh~\ ;  his  smoke  is  waving,  his  Hume  cannot 
be  «ized,  viii.  23,   1   {tlmrithnudhumam    agribhUa&oehiaham) ;    he   is 
driven  by  the  wind,  and  rushes  through  the  woods  like  a  bull  lording 
it  over  a  hord  of  cows,  i.  58,  4,  5  {cant  d  r-AUuhodiU  yflfAs  na  tuhvu* 
am  rati  ratiuagah) ;  i.  65,  8.     He  is  a  destroyer  of  darkness,  i.  1 40,  1 
{tamchan),  and  sees  through  the  gloom  of  tbo  night,  L  94,  7  (r&tryni 
ahid  andho  ati  den  patyaii).    The  world,  which  hod  been  swallowed  up 
and  enveloped  in  darkness,  and  the   heavens,  are  manifested  at  his 
appearance,  and  the  gods,  the  sky,  the  earth,  the  waters,  the  plants 
rejoice  in  his  friendship,  x.  88,  2  (girnnm  lihuramim  (am/wi  'pagtlfiam 
«ct$  nar  abhavajj&te  Agnau  \  tasya  derah  prithitl  dyaur  vtapo  armw- 
yonn  osAWAiA  takhye  a«ya).     He  is  chHra-bhdnu,  chilra  ioehih,  of  bril- 
liant lustre  or  blaze  (i.  27,  6 ;  ii.  10,  2 ;  v.  26,  2  ;  vi.  10,  3 ;  vii.  9, 
3 ;  vii.  12,  1 ;  viii.  19,  2),  <krdhra-kchit,  upward-flaming  (vi.  15,  2), 
imkra-toelik,   bright  -  flaming    (vii.  15,   10;     viii.    23,    20),  putaU- 
ioe\i4,m  with   clear   flames    (viii.  43,  31),    tnkra-tarna,  *WAi-r«rw#j, 
bright  coloured  (i.  140,  1 ;   v.  2,  3),  ioehithkeio,  with  blaring  hnir 

■»  Agni  U  *L»  titled  Hnioehii  in  »iii:  80,  10  («S.V.  ii.  004),  U  (=8.V.  i.  49). 
ssul  i'fi  in  viii.  43,  31.  On  thf  last  place  Siyana  rrpliini  iira  as  sleeping  or  lying; 
in  lb*  Morifte-*  (y^w«A«  /«y,iMdyn>  i7«m).  On  viii.  60,  10,  he  makes  lb*  wmfmoixl 
n  .nl  =  •JanM-Jit*-jT&Um%,  **  ho  vhoso  flosM  pcrTaJ™."    On  the  14th  rem  b<  takes 

■  m  im/<um-*raiiAfrtxiuMuuH,  "he  wh.no  brilliance  has  lbs  character  of  lying 
or  sleeping."  la  both  plants  Profsaor  Ben  fey  rendm  it  '*  fjlramine  like  lightning." 
rrofsaor  Rotb,  Ulustr.  Of  Kir.,  p.  42,  thinlt  lira  hit  mean  "piercing." 


212 


EPITEETS  AND  CHARACTERISTICS  OP  A 


(i.  45,  6;  iii.  14,  I;  iii.  17,  1;  iii.  27,4;  v.  8,2;  v.  41,  10), 
Aari-ktia,  with  tawny  hair  (iii.  2,  IS),  golden-formed  (iv.  3,  1 ;  x. 
20,  9,  Airanya-rupni*  janiltl  jajtina),  and  Airi-imafru,  with  galdrn 
hoard  (v.  7,  7).  He  carries  ehnrp  weapons,  tiymaUti,  liymabArukfi 
(ir.  4,  4;  it.  5,  S),  ho  has  scarp  teeth,  tigmajtmbA*  (i  79,  6  ;  L  1-1 
5;  iv.  5,  4  ;  iv.  15,  5;  viii.  19,  22),  burning  teeth,  lapr-j 
(i.  58,  5;  viii.  23,  4),  brilliant  teoth,  iuehiitnt  {v.  7,  7),  golden  teeth, 
Air*»y*dmt  (v.  2,  3),  iron  grinders,  ayofaauAfra  (x.  87,  2),  and  sharp 
and  consuming  jsws  (viii.  49,  13;  x.  79,  1  (lignulh  otyo  AsaasttA  | 
nfiad  At Mii  vibhrite  tarn  bharete  atinvati  hapnatl  bh&ri  atuh).  Accord- 
ing to  one  passage,  he  is  footless  and  headless  {apai  aiinhd,  iv.  1,11 
and  yet  ho  is  elsewhere  said  to  have  a  burning  head,  taprtrmi 
(rii.  3,  1),  three  heads  and  seven  rays,  trimQrdhtinatit  tapta 
(i.  1 46,  1  ;  ii.  5,  2),  to  bo  four-eyed,  chaturafoh*  (i.  31,  13),  thousand- 
eyed,  tah**rCd*ha  (i.  79,  12),  and  thousand-horned,  saAasnsip'i^d 
(v.  1,  8)."*  He  is  kruhnadhfcm,  k^hnavarttani,  krithsa-paci,  ■*.#.  his 
]i;Uh  and  his  wheels  arc  marked  by  blackness  (ii.  4,  6;  vi.  10,  4 ;  to. 
8,  2 ;  viii.  23,  19) ;  ho  envelopes  the  woods,  consumes  and  blackens 
them  with  bis  tongue  (i.  143,  5;  v.  41,  10;  vi.  60,  10,  arckuAa  tan& 
r»'sV<3  ptruhvajal  |  kfiihna  kandi  jiAcaya) ;  x.  79,  2,  «iar<iR»  ulU 
fiAemya  vantini) ;  he  is  all  devouring,  eUcdd  (viii  44,  26);  driven  by 
the  wind,  ho  invades  the  forest*,  and  shears  the  hsirs  of  the  earth, 
i.  65,  4  (ibky&n  na  rHju  tanftnt  alii  \  yad  rUfajHU  r<tn&  vi  attk&d  Ayntr 
Ad  duti  romfi  pj-itAkjAh),  like  a  barber  shaving  a  beard,  x.  142,  4 
[yadd  U  vdtc  anutati  ioehir  vapUta  &mairu  reptui  pra  bAdma).  He 
causes  terror,  like  an  army  let  loose,  i.  66,  8  (wnsea  tfisAia  amadk 
dadhuli);  i.  143,  5;  x.  142,  4  (yad  vdvato  nitato  ydn'  bapsat  pfitAty 
ttAi  pragardAin\ra  tin*).  His  flames  roar  like  the  waves  of  the  sea, 
i.  44,  12  (yad  dtvastam  mitramahai  purohitao  antaro  yS$i  dityam  | 
lindkor  ira  pratvanit&iaA  urmtyo  Ayner  bArajanU  orcAayah).  He  sounds 
like  thunder,  vii.  3,  6  (dico  na  te  lanyatur  eii  iiuAmak) ;  X.  45,  4 
(akrandad  AyniA  stamyann  iva  Dyauhw)\  viii.  91,  5;    ho  roars  like 

**>  In one-  place  (viii.  19, 32)  ^gni  it  railed  nAanm-tnuAia.  which  the  coanncatatot 
»,pl»in»  St  bdku-i<j<uka,  having  many  flames.  The  tame  epithet  it,  at  we  have 
seen,  applied  in  It.V.  vi.  10,  3,  u>  liulm,  where  Sipjj*  mak«*  it  equivalent  to  mAojt*- 
itphji,  millc  lucuibra  genitalis  habeas. 

*"  It  U  to  be  observed  th it  in  thu  pounire  Dvans,  and  not  India,  it  described  as  to* 
Uramlwcr.    See  above  p.  118  f.,  the  reference  to  the  question  whether  Dyaa 
been  rapcrttded  by  India. 


EPITHETS  AND  C1IAUACTEMSTICS  OF  AGXI. 


213 


tbe  wind,  ibid,  {hurt  vGhtvanait*  hitim  Parjanya-krattdyarh  tahah  | 
Agnim  tam\tdravSiaiam,n);  like  a  lion,  iii.  2,  11  (itdnado*  na  rimhah). 
and  when  he  has  yoked  his  red,  wind-driven  horses  to  his  cur,  ho 
bellows  liko  a  bull,  and  invades  the  forest-.' -ccs  with  his  flames;  the 
birds  are  terrified  at  the  noi«o  when  his  grass-devouring  sparks  arise, 
i.  94,  10  {yad  ayukthah  tmuha  rohitd  rathe  tdtajaid  crith/ibhatyera  U 
rtuah  |  3d  intuit  tanino  dhumakdund  |  11.  Adha  teanud  uta  bibhyvh 
palatrino  drapidh  yat  tt  yatatsdo  ei  atlhirm).  He  is  resistless  as  the 
resounding  Maruts,  and  as  the  lightnings  of  heaven,  i.  143,  5  {na  yo 
tardya  Jfarutum  tea  tvanah  tcntva  trithfd  divyd  yathd  'ianih).  He  has 
a  hundred  manifestations,  and  shines  like  the  sun,  i.  149,  3  («-iro  na 
rvrvkrdn  iatdinui) ;  vii.  3,  6.  His  lustre  is  like  the  rays  of  tho  dawn 
and  the  sun,  x.  91,  4  (<5  to  chikitre  uthatlm  iva  etayah  arepaiah  turytu- 
yera  raimayah),  and  like  the  lightnings  of  tho  rain-cloud,  ibid.  5  (-S.V. 
ii.  332,  torn  iriyo  varthyatyeta  ridyuteh) ;  and  he  is  borne  on  a  chariot 
cf  lightning,  iii.  14,  I  [ridyudratha),  on  a  luminous  car,  i.  140,  I 
{Jycf.rathd),"*  i.  141,  12  [ehandraratha);  iii.  5,  3;  v.  1.  11  (.:  cdya 
ratham  bkdnumo  bhtlmmantam  Agnt  tuhfha);  on  a  brilliant,  x.  1,  5 
(chitroratka),  golden,  iv.  1,  8  (Jtiranyaralha),  on  an  excellent  or 
Lean  til  ul  car,  iii.  3,  9  (tumadratha)  ;  iv.  2,  4  {suratha).  This  chariot 
is  drawn  by  horses  or  mares  characterized  as  butter-backed  {gkrita- 
pfunfha),  wind-impelled  {rdtajuta),  beautiful  {tvaira),  ruddy  (rohit), 
tawny  (anuria),  active  (Jlrdha),  assuming  all  forms  {riivaripa),  and 
mind-yoked  (manoyuj),  ond  by  other  epithets  (i.  14,  G,  12  ;  L  45,  2  ; 
L  94,  10  ;  i.  141,  12  ;  ii.  4,  2 ;  ii.  10,  2  ;  ir.  1,  8  ;  it.  2,  2,  4  ; 
ir.  6,  9  (p>mi«#W« .') ;  vi.  16,  13;  xii.  16,  2;  viii.  43,  16;  x.  7,  4; 
x.  70,  2f.),  which  he  yokes  in  order  to  summon  tho  gods,  i.  14,  12 
[tdbhir  dec&n  ihdvaha) ;  iii.  6,  6  {ritatya  r J  heiind  yoyydbhir  gkritiu- 
«*'-!  rohitd  dhuri  dhithva  |  athdrahv  dtvdn  dtva  tidr&n  |  9.  A  ebhir 
[detain]  Agnt  taraikaSt  ydhi  arrdn) ;  viii.  64,  1  {ytduhd  hi  devahula- 
man  afrdn  Ague  rathir  iva). 


*°  H«n>  it  will  be  noted,  ho  in  alto  laid  "  to  bs  clothed  with,  or  enveloped  by,  tho 
in."  Tbe  aamo  upilbel  had  alto  oetmmd  in  Ui«  firtotding  rerac  (  =S.V.  i.  18), 
•  litre  th«  riahi  is  alao  -aid  to  invoke  th«  bright  god,  a*  did  Aura,  Bhriga,  and 
Apnaruiut  [Aumbkfgiwtt  iuckim  Ap*<itnna-r«d  ii  k*n  Aptim  i«»nJri.ro«M»). 

*°-  Ths  mmm  epithet  -*  applied  to  the  god*  in  j cnrral  in  x.  M,  i. 


2M 


JIICI1  D1Y1NH  Fl'XCTION.S  ASSIGNED  TO  AGNI. 


(4)  High  divins  function*  tutigntd  to  him. 

Tho  highest  divine  functions  are  ascribed  to  Agni.  Ho  n  called  ! 
divine  monarch  [tamrajo  awratya),  and  declared  to  be  strong  as  Indrs, 
vii.  0,  1  {ludratyna  pra  tacaaat  kr-itdni  twain).  Although  (aa  we  hare 
seen  above)  he  is  described  in  some  passages  as  the  offspring  of  heaven 
mid  inilli,  he  is  said  in  other  places  to  have  stretched  them  out, 
iii.  G,  5  {lava  kratvd  roiail  a  tatantha) ;  vii.  5,  4 ;  to  have  spread  out 
the  two  worlds  like  two  skins,  vi.  8,  3  (et  charmamira  dhithane  atmrtt- 
j/at);  to  have  produced  them,  i.  06  -1  (JaniUl  rodtuyoh)  ;  vii.  5,  fj 
(hhuninu  jimnyan);  to  have,  like  the  unborn,  supported  the  earth  and 
sky  with  truo  hymns,  i.  67,  8  (ajo  na  ktA&tn  dadh&ra  pritJiirlSi  lot- 
tami/ut  dadnt  mantrebhiA  salyaik);  to  have,  by  his  llame,  held  aloft  the 
heaves,  iii.  6,  10  {ud  attambhU  tamidha  n&lutn  rithvah);  to  have  kept 
asunder  the  two  worlds,  vi.  8,  3  {vi  attabhniii  rada*\  mitro  adbhuUk); 
to  have  formal  the  mundane  regions  and  the  luminaries  of  heaven, 
vi.  7,  7  (ri  yo  raj'imn  amimUa  ntkralur  vaiivunaro  vi  Are  rotkmi 
iiiviA) ;  Ti.  8,  2  ;  to  have  begotten  Mitra,  x.  8,  4  ( janayan  Mi  tram), 
and  caused  the  sun,  the  imperishable  orb,  to  ascend  the  sky,  x.  i 
(Ague  nakthatram  ajaram  a  sHryatii  rohayo  diti) ;  to  have  made  all  thai 
flies,  or  walks,  or  stands,  or  moves,  x.  88,  4m  (ta  ptttatri  t  tear  am 
tthuh  jttgad  yat  iwltrttm  agnir  aljinml  jatartdAh) ;  to  adorn  the  beeves 
with  stars,  i.  68,  5  {pipeia  ndkam  ttribhir  damUnAh).  lie  is  the  head 
(mirddAu)  and  summit  {kakud)  of  tlio  sky,  tho  centre  (ntHM)  of  the 
earth  (i.  59,  2)  ;  compare  verso  1 ;  vi.  7,  1 ;  viii.  41,  16 ;  x.  88,  5; 
he  props  up  men  like  a  pillar,  i.  59, 1  (tthuwv*  jontn  upautid  yayantka)-, 
iv.  5,  I  (oAtaffla  briAatd  vafohatAma  upa  alabkuyad  upamin  ns  radhai). 
His  greatness  exceeds  that  of  heaven  and  all  the  worlds,  i.  59,  5 
{Divai  ehit  t*  bfihato  jatartdo  vai&t&nars  pra  ririeha  wtihitvam) ;  iii. 
3,  10  {Jiilah  apfino  Mtirandm  redatl  Agne  Ul  rwd  paribk&r  ati  Imana) ; 
iii.  6,  2.**    He,  the  destroyer  of  cities,  has  achieved  famous  exploits 

»•  Tlii  half  vu«r  (x.  83,  i)  u  quoted  in  Nirakto,  v.  3.  Durga,  tho  cosmintatar 

Ninilta,  explain*  Ui«  word*  bjr  ••.ring  that  Agni  nihjfcU  nlJ  thing*  lo  him*Jf 

at  tho  time  of  tho  raundano  dwktinn.    Tho  K°d»  art>  mid  is  tho  same  hma  (x, 

fts,  7,)  to  hart  thrown  into  Agni  an  oblation  accompanied'  by  a  uyma,  and  in  vert*  ft, 

thu  ublstioa  is  said  to  Iiuto  coui*ted  of  all  cmtturca  or  nil  world*  (*A*mmmi  lit'n), 

">  Epithet*  of  this  dmcriiiiiun  taay  bar*  been  oripuallr  applied  to  aonw  oUiar  god 

to  whom  rtoy  were  more  suitable  than  t>  .\-u\.  IM  notoqMBli*  trawtwrwl  to  I 

wonhipper*  in  emulation  of  th«  praise*  laviahci  on  other  deities. 


niGII  DIVINE  FUNCTIONS  ASSIGNED  TO  AGNI. 


'215 


of  old,  vii.  6,  2  (purandariitya  girbhir  a  eivute  Agtter  rrat&ni  punya 
mohAni).  Men  tremble  at  hia  mighty  deeds,  and  his  ordinances  and 
designs  eannot  bo  minted,  ii.  8,  S  {yatya  vratam  na  mlyat*) ;  ii.  9,  1  = 
Vij.  S.  id.  S6  (adabdkarrala-pramaltr  .  .  .  AgniK) ;  vi.  7,  5 ;  viii.  44, 
25  ;  viii.  92,  S  (yattuad  rejaati  kfitkfayaf  charkfiiyuni  krinvatah). 
Earth  and  heaven  and  all  beings  present  and  future  obey  his  com- 
mands; vii.  5,  4  (tava  tridh&tu  prilkiri  ula  dyaur  TitikGnara  vralam 
Agnt  taehanta) ;  A.V.  It.  23,  7  {yatya  idam  pradiii  yad  rockal*  yaj 
jataBt  janitacyam  cha  kevalam  |  ttawni  Agniih  tuUhito  johavimi).  He 
eooquered  wealth,  ot  space,  for  the  gods  in  battle,  L  59,  5  (yudka 
dtrtbhyo  varitai  chakar(ha)  ;  and  delivered  them  from  calamity,  rii. 
13,  2  {tram  dev&n  abtiifitsttr  umunrhah).  Ho  is  the  conqueror  of 
thousand*  (tahatrajit),  i.  188,  1.  All  the  gods  fear  and  do  homage 
to  him  when  ho  abides  in  darkness,  vi.  9,  7  (nip*  ievlh  anamatyan 
khiy&nCit  kAin  Agnt  famati  tatthiwmtam).  He  is  celebrated  and 
worshipped  by  Varuna,  Mitra,  the  Maruts,  and  all  the  3,339  gods, 
iii.  9,  9  (trlni  iota  tri  tahatrdni  Agnim  trimlack  cha  detHh  nara 
thuAttparyin)  ;  iii.  14,  4  (ilitrai  cha  tubkyaih  Varnnak  tahotva 
Aynt  tit**  Marmtah  rumnan  arckan) ;  x.  69,  9  {derM  ckii  U  am- 
pitah  jQUtvtdo  makimUnaik  Vddkryaita  pra  ttchan).  It  is  through 
him  that  Varuija,  Mitra,  and  Aryuman  triumph,  i.  141,  9  (ttaya  A» 
Agnt  Varwga  dkpiaprato  Mitrah  itiiadre  Aryatna  tuddnavak).  Ha 
known  and  sees  all  worlds,  or  creatures,  iii.  55,  10  {Agnii  tii  tiki 
bhuran&ni  vtda) ;  z.  187,  4  {yo  riha  'bhipaSyati  bhuvand  soA  cha 
pafyati).m  He  knows  the  recesses  of  hcarcn,  iv.  8,  2,  4  {cidca* 
aradhamaii  ditah),  the  divino  ordinances  and  the  races  or  births  of 
of  gods  and  men,  i.  70,  1,  3  {6  daityani  crati  thikitriin  S  mSnuthaty* 
jtuHuyajanma  |  «l&  ehikitro  bkumii  »»'  pilhi  dtt&nufo  jaima  marUihM  eka 
9iJ*a»)  ;  iii.  4,  11  ;  vi.  15,  13  ;  the  secrets  of  mortals,  viii.  39,  6 
AynirjiitA  dttunam  Agnir  etda  mart^Hdm  aplchyam);  and  hears  the 
invocations  which  are  addressed  to  him,  viii.  43,  28  {tarn  ted  eaya* 
kofimaks  ipuramtam  jatactdmtatm).  He  is  otura,  "the  divine,"  iv.  2, 5; 
v.  12,  1  ;  v.  15,  I  ;  vii.  2,  3;  vii.  6,  1. 

»*  Thws  t»aa  word*  sie  in  iii.  62,  9,  applied  to  1'Oibaa:     Ssa  abors,  p  I7i, 


216 


AOM'8  RELATIONS  TO  ni8  WORSniFPBHS. 


Tho 


(5)  AanCt  rtlationx  to  his  teorshippers. 


votaries  of  Agni  prosper,  they  aro  wealthy  and  lir< 
ri.  2,  4,  5  (tamidha  yat  U  uhiittih  ni'utim  martyo  naiat  \  rayutantam 
ta  puthyati  kshayam  Agtu  iatiiyuskam) ;  vi.  6,  5  (yas  U  ynjntna  t«mi- 
dJid  yak  ukthair  aricbhih  nuno  tahato  dad&iat  \  ta  Martytshu  amrila 
prachetuh  ri'iyd  dyumnena  irarasa  vi  bfititi);  vi.  10,  3;  vi.  13,  4 ; 
>i.  15,  11 ;  vii.  11,  2  j  viii.  19,  5,  6  ;  viii.  -14,  IS  ;  viii.  73,  9.  H« 
is  the  deliverer  (eompiiro  viii.  49,  5)  and  friend  of  the  man  who 
comes  to  him  with  fine  horses  and  gold,  and  a  chariot  full  of  riches, 
and  delight*  to  entertain  him  as  a  guest,  iv.  4,  10  (yat  ted  trairak 
tuhtranijo  Agn4  upaytlti  vatumald  rathena  \  tatya  trdtd  bkavati  takha 
yat  t4  atithyam  Qnuthag  jtijoihat)  ;  and  grants  protection  to  the 
devoted  worshipper  who  sweats  to  hring  him  fuel,"'  or  wearies 
his  head  to  serve  him,  iv.  2,  6  (f/<w  to  id/imam  jabharat  titkrid&M 
inurdliunam  Mi  tatapate  trQyd  |  bhuvat  tatya  tvatavdn  pOyur  Agnt). 
Ho  watches  with  a  thousand  eyes  over  the  man  who  brings  him  food 
nud  nourishes  him  with  oblations,  x.  70,  5  (yo  atmai  annaii  triifit 
udadJidti  ujyair  nhritair  j'uhoti  puthyati  \  tatmai  sahasram  akthihh\r 
ehakthe).  Ho  bestows  on  his  servant  a  renowned,  devout,  excellent, 
incomparable  son,  who  confers  fame  upon  his  father, **  v.  25,  6  (Agnit 
tuviirava$(am/im  turibrahwinam  utfamam  |  ati'.rtam  irucayatpatim  jnt- 
tram  dadCiti  d/iiuihi).  He  gives  riches,  which  he  abundantly  com- 
mands, i.  1,  3  (Agninfl  rayim  ainavaf);  i.  31,  10  {team  Agno  pnmatu 
tvam  pili'i  'it  tias  team  vayatkfit  tava  jdmayo  ray  am  \  tarn  tvS  rdyak 
iatinak  tarn  tahairinak  tuvlratit  yanti  vratap&m  ad&bhya)  •  i.  36,  4 
(vistam  to  Agnt  jmjali  ivayii  dfiaruun  yat  tt  dadi\ia  mariyah).  The  man 
whom  he  protects  and  inspires  in  buttle  conquers  abundant  food,  and 
can  never  be  overcome,  i  27,  1  i.<=  S. V.  ii.  765  f.  (yam  Agm  prits* 
martyam  acuh  ciijethu  yam  junuh  \  sa  yantA  iairat\r  ithak  |  8.  Nakir 
atya  sahantya  paryetii  lcayatya  chit).  No  mortal  enemy  can  by  any 
wondrous  power  gain  the  mastery  over  him  who  sacrifices  to  this  god, 

01  In  viii.  91,  19  f.  the  rubi  informs  Agni  thu  bo  has  no  cow  which  would  riald 
butter  for  oblations,  and  no  nxc  to  nit  wood  wiilrnl,  wi<l  that  therefore  bis  offering  is 
such  m  the  gnd  tec* :  and  he  beg*  him  to  accept  any  ton*  or  wooo.  u»  dmt  i 
bio  him  (.-in  Ai  hmuh  nghni/a  na  tcadhtiir  tatMinrali  |  alka  tt&Jftf  bkera 
itO.  1'mi  Agn*  t-'mi  h'mi  thid  a  u  Jarimi  iaiiKmati  tijuth^ma  y*r<«Aftyii). 

**  Such  L»  tho  sense  anisiied  by  S««ma  U>  lb*  ipithes  irui«ya{-p*tim. 


AOSTS  RELATION'S  TO  HIS  WORSlTirrEiV*. 


217 


viii  93,  15  (na  tati/it  mfiyayii  chant*  ripur  filto  martyah  |  yo  Agnaye 
lUdOU  haryad&tibhih)  He  also  confer.*,  and  is  tbc  guardian  and  lord  of, 
immortality,  i.  81,  7(tVaifi  tarn  Agne  amritalt*  uttame  mart  Info  dadhuii) ; 
vii.  7,  7  {amritvMja  rahthitA) ;  vii.  4,  fi  {lie  hi  Agne  amritutya  bh&reh). 
He  »a»  mado  by  the  goda  the  centre  of  immortality,  iii.  17,  4  (amrit- 
atya  mlbhii).  His  worshippers  ecok  him  with  glad  heart*,  viii.  43,  31 
h\r  mandrelhir  hnahe).  Id  a  funeral  hymn  Agtti  is  supplicated 
to  ▼arm  with  Ma  heat  Uio  unborn  purt'"  of  the  deceased,  and  in  his 
oaspicioua  form  to  carry  it  to  tho  world  of  tho  righteous,  x.  16,  4 
{ajo  bhilga*  tapata  ta&  tapatta  tain  U  ioekii  tapatu  htm  ti  arehih  |  fgj  t« 
iitdt  Unto  jdtavedat  tabhir  tahainaH*  aul-rit&m  u  Iokam).m     Ho  carries 


*»  Frofaaaer  Aurrecht  thinks  thst  this  is  not  the  sous  of  the  words,  and  that  they 
mean:  "Tbc  goat  (with  whose  skin  tb«  dead  it  covered)  U  thy  shero;  (but  0—1 
with  thy  brat  ;  that  be  consumed  iritli  thy  fla»b  and  flame,"  etc. ;  i] 
Ai'valiyanaa'  Grihja  SOtras  St.  2,  t;  3,  20 ;  and  K&tyayonal  8'rautu  Sutru.  m. 
7.  31.  I  galhir  from  tho  fact  that  tbia  piiaaagr  u  cited  in  the  Lexicon  of  Messrs, 
ogk  and  Rotb  under  nja  1,  «  (where  the  sense  of  goat  is  assigned  le  tbs  wor>l). 
that  they  are  of  tho  unc  opinion  at  I'rofnoor  .lufrceht.  I  think,  however,  that  tho 
rendering  I  bare  followed  is  more  agreeable  to  the  contest.  In  tbo  preceding  venos 
1  and  8,  Agni  had  been  besought  not  so  to  barn  the  body  of  tho  deceased  as  to 
destroy  it  (compare  R..Y.  i.  162,  20),  but  after  baring  sufficiently  "  cooked  "  the  man 
(ysda  ifiiam  kfinarak),  to  send  him  to  the  Fathers.  In  verse  3,  the  different  ele- 
ments of  which  tbs  body,  when  tiring,  wan  composed,  are  commanded  to  return  to 
lbs  seorces  from  which  they  were  at  tint  derived  ;  and  then  in  tho  verse  before  us 
(as  I  understand  it),  the  god  is  besought  to  warm  the  man's  unborn  part,  nnd  winter 
it  to  the  world  of  tbc  righteous.  In  the  text  there  is  no  word  snswering  to  "  thy. ' 
which  he*,  therefore,  to  be  supplied  by  those  who  undoraUnd  nja  of  •  gnat.  It  is 
more  natural  to  suppose  that  it  is  the  soul  of  the  departed  man  than  that  of  a  goat 
which  is  to  be  conveyed  to  tbc  world  of  tbo  righteous;  (although  I  em  aware 
that  alanu,  v.  42,  dcclurce  that  cattle  which  are  sacrificed  go  to  heaven,  and  tho 
sum*  is  said  of  the  sacrificial  horse  in  R.V.  i.  162,  21,  snd  i.  ICit,  12  f,);  and  in  tho 
fbllowinx  verse  (x.  16,  o)  it  is  evidently  the  man  whu  is  said  to  hsve  been  offered  to 
Agni,  and  whom  Agni  is  besought  to  dismiss  to  tbe  Fathers.  My  rendering  has  the 
inpyort  ef  Professor  Muller  (Journ.  of  Germ.  Or.  Soc.,  vol.  it.  p.  it.),  who  trans- 
late* */•  U»f*h  by  "  <ia»  ew'ge  TbeiL"  the  eternal  part,  and  of  M.  Lorjglou,  who 
raodora  it  M  unc  portion  immortelle."  These  verses,  z.  16, 1-6,  will  be  found  aaotod 
at  length  in  the  section  on  Tama. 

a*  Some  further  verses  of  this  hymn  will  be  quoted  in  the  section  on  Yarns.  In 
fust  9,  tbo  Iraryad  Afni,  tliu  consumer  of  carrion,  or  of  tho  deed,  is  epoken  of  as 
an  object  to  he  repelled.  In  tho  Vij.  8.  i.  17,  Agnl  is  prayed  to  drive  away  two  of 
hi*  own  form*,  tin-  iimiid  and  tho  krnry^J,  and  to  bring  tho  Mtcriftciel  Are  («jm  Aps* 
Agnim  imyMam  jaii  m'a*  knntyadam  udha  \  a  drraytjam  rata),  where  the  com- 
mewbitor  says  that  three  Agnis  are  mentioned,  the  one  which  devours  raw  flesh 
(imad)  which  is  the  common  culinary  tire  (laukitc  "gniM),  the  aecond  the  fa  Ml  sat 
\krmryat  |  UrUmht  Jrrmrysm  *riw«  ttti  Hi  krityit  carto/ai*.),  and  the  third  the 


SIS  ACXPS  RELATIONS  TO  HIS  WoSSHIWEM. 


moo  across  calamities,  u  in  i  ship  over  the  k*,  or  preserras  from 
them,  iii.  20,  4  (pariAad  eik*  %  dmriU  9Timam»*n) ;  v.  4,  9  (rwrdjs.  m 
imrjtXa  j&Utttdak  tindhtm  M  ndr&  duriU  'ft  panhi)  ;  vii  12,  2  (s* 
moJmS  rtfad  duril6ni  **fo3n  |  m  no  rahkitkad  dtrtUd  aradyit),  All 
Wetting*  ine  from  him  aa  branches  from  »  tree,  vi  13,  1  (frse*  rtfei 
$*M*gn  tmlhtjiini  Agn*  ti  yan/i  rauw  m  r«y«-'A).  He  is  like  a 
water-trough  in  a  desert,  z.  4,  1  (cBessssm  mm  prapo  an  Agn*).  All 
treasures  ire  congregated  in  him,  x.  6,  G  (so*  yatmim  rwd  cwrftsa 
jagmmh) ;  be  commands  all  the  riches  in  the  earth,  tho  upper  and  lower 
oceans,  the  atmosphere,  and  the  skj,  vii  6,  7  (d  sVro  dad*  kuihmyt 
•atini  rsurciiMrs^  "di'M  liryatya  |  J  mmudrud  atarud  A  paratm&d  i 
Agnir  ditah  A  prithityHtf) ;  x.  91,  3  (raw  nufl/xia  ktkayan  tram 
thai  id  dydrA  cka  yim*  prithu*  tha  p**hyat*h).  lie  is,  in  consequence, 
continually  supplicsted  for  all  kiads  of  boons,  riches,  food,  deliverance 
from  enemies  and  demon*,  poverty,  nakedness,  reproach,  childlessness, 
hunger,  L  12,  8,  9 ;  L  36,  12  ff.  ;  i.  58,  8,  9  ;  ti.  4,  8  ;  ii.  7,  2,  3 ; 
ii  9,  5;  iii.  1,  21;  iii.  13,  7;  iii.  16,5;  iv.  2,20;  ir.  3,  14;  ir.  11, 
6  ;  v.  3,  11;  vi.  1,  If  f. ;  vi.  4,  8 ;  vi  3,  7 ;  vi.  6,  7 ;  vii.  1,  fi,  13,  19. 
He  is  besought  to  protect  his  worshippers  with  a  hundred  iron  walls, 
vi.  18,  8 ;  viL  3,  7  {iattm  pHrbhir  AyaifbAir  mi  pShi);  vii.  16,  10;  to 
be  himself  such  a  fortification  with  a  hundred  surrounding  walls,  vii 
15,  14  {adha  mail  nah  aytul  an&dkfiikfo  nfipMayi  |  pHr  biam  lata- 
bhujih) ;  i  189,  2 ;  to  consume  their  enemies  like  dry  bushes,  ir.  4,  4 
(m  emitr&n  thai&t  tignaksU  |  yo  no  mriti*  nmtidhUm  chakrt  slaki 
tarn  dhahhi  sAsmA  m  hukJum) ;  to  strike  down  the  malevolent  aa  a 
tree  is  destroyed  by  lighting,  ri  8,  5  {parytra  rujaitm  aghaiaAucm 
ajar*  nltha  ni  fyi'sVAs  mniimm  na  t*ja*A).  Compare  A.V.  iii.  1,  I; 
iii.  2,  I ;  vi  120,  1.  Ho  is  invoked  in  battle,  riii.  43,  21  (tamal,* 
tt&  \dr&mahi),  in  which  ho  leads  tho  van,  viii.  73,  8  {ptuvyHeAnam 
Ajuku).  Ho  is  prayed  to  forgive  whatever  sin  the  worshipper  may 
have  commited  through  folly,  and  to  mako  him  guiltless  towards  Aditi, 
i  v.  12,  4  {yat  ehid  hi  U  puruthulru  yachh[ha  ackittibhii  ehakjlma  huh 
chid  iigah  |  Ijidhi  tu  turn/in  Aditar  onAgAn  vi  mAmti  iiiratko  titkt+g 
Aant);    vii.    MS,  7  (ya*  *!n»  dgai  thakfima  tat  *u  mfila  tad  AryamA 

icri&ciil  (ydyayafy*}).    Compnr*  Vsj.  S»n,  tviii.  A!  f.    Tho  Tsitt  Saab.  ii.  5.  8,  8, 
ni  another  threefold  divuioa  of  fir*  :    Tiayo  t/ii  agrtuyo  AwjmmiUm  dnnnom 


ACXI'8  HELATIONS  TO  II  IS  WORSIIirPRIt.S. 


219 


Adit i A  iiirathmtu;  boo  above  pp.  46  sod  47) ;  and  to  arert  Vonign'i 
wrath,  iv.  1,  4  (team  ho  Agra  Varuntuya  vichin  cVrmya  htk  am  y&titl- 

$hfh: 

In  two  passage*,  M  w«  have  already  wen  (p,  108,  note),  the  wor- 
shipper naively  says  to  Agni  (as  Indrn's  rotary  says  to  him),  Tiii.  14, 
23,  "  If  I  were  thou,  and  thou,  Agni,  wert  I,  thy  aspiration*  should 
be  fulfilled ;"  and  viii.  19,  25  f.,  "  If,  Agni,  thou  wort  a  mortal,  and  I, 
0  thou  who  art  rich  iu  friends,  were  uu  immortal,  (2G)  I  would  not 
abaudon  thee  to  wrong  or  to  penury.  My  worshipper  Bhould  not  bo 
poor,  nor  distressed,  nor  miserable." 

In  viii.  92,  2,  Agni  called  Duivodfiaa  ( Daivoddto  'gnt'l),  from  which 
it  would  nppenr  that  king  Divodusa  claimed  him  especially  as  hli 
tutvlury  gvd.  Iu  tho  tamo  way  he  is  called  in  viii.  10,  32  {mmrtjam 
Tr&ttdatyaran),  and  in  x.  69,  1  if.,  he  is  called  Agni  Budhrynava, 
apparently  beosuse  a  sage  of  that  name  had  kindled  liim.  Compare 
the  epithet  Knnsika  applied  to  ladra  in  11.  V.  i.  10,  11,  and  the  Erst 
Tol.  of  this  work,  pp.  347  ff. 

Agni  u  occasionally  identified  with  other  gods  and  different  god- 
desses, Indra,  Vishnu,  Varuna,  Mitrs,  Aryaman,  AnfU,  Tvashtp, 
Kndra,  Puritan,  Suvitri,  Bhaga,  Aditi,  Hotra,  Bharatl,  IJft,  Saraavatl, 
ii.  1,  3-7,  and  11  (tram  Agnt  Judro  tjishubhah  tatum  u»i  *w*  Vi$hnmr 
wnt$4yonaMio*tfa$,  etc.);  iii.  5,  4;  v.  3,  1 ;  vii.  12,  3;  x.  8,  5.>u  All  gods 
are  comprehended  in  him,  v.  3,  1  (frtriirs  whaMi  putra  dtcuh);  ha 
surrounds  them  as  the  circumference  of  a  wheel  does  tlio  spokes, 
t.  13,  6  (Agne  ncmir  arati  ita  tvat'n  devCm  fiaribhar  tui) ;  compare 
i.  141,  9.  Varuua  is  in  one  place  epokeu  of  as  his  brother,  ir.  1,  2 
(m  bhr&taram  Varunam  Agnc  il  rerpYsva). 

Agni  is  associated  with  Indra"5  in  different  hymns,  an  i.  108und  109 ; 
iii.  12  ;    it  59  and  60  ;    vii.  03  aud  M  ;    viii.  38  and  -10.     The  two 

*"  Another  rene  where  Ajrni  w  identified  with  other  gods  is  I.  164,  48.  JnJrmm 
Mil  rum  Vmrunam  Aonim  .iAur  at  ho  ttiryaM  M  tupenyt  y.tr*tman  |  tksm  tni 
iaWto  huShM  AfMim  I  Imm  oU*  |  «•  Thej  o*ll  hint  Indrs,  Mitrs, 

Vsnuja,  Agni ;  then  there  i»  (b«t  cclctial,  wcU-wisgtd  tiid.  Sage*  name  Tsriondy 
that  ■hitli  u  but  OH ;  they  oril  il  Agni.  Yiuna,  Muiaruima."  Compare  A.V.  nil. 
3,  15:  M  l'*rvyt/l  vi.iMM*  Ajmtt  MsWBBS'  >•■  Milro  M«m/i  pruUr  wiya»  \  la  Sttila 
Mufrn  anttrilifi.nn  yati  am  Mrm  tiulni  to/M/i  nuuthyttta  rfiMm  |  "Agni  beewmw 
V  trans  in  the  evening ;  ruing  in  the  mornintf  ho  u  Mitrn  ;  bMomin^  Snt ttri  he  moves 

|hn>"L  in.lmhr  nlo«.  in  in-  miil.i:.  ■  .■: 

u'  Bet  Mulkr'u  lA<5urw  on  Lan^nape.     Seconal  maw,  pp.  403  r. 


220 


Ar,\Ts  relations  To  his  wonsmrrrn.s. 


gods  are  said  to  be  twin  brothers,  having  the  same  father,  and  baring 
tliiir  mothers  here  and  there.'0  vi.  59,  2  (see  above,  pp.  14  and  81),  to 
bo  both  thundnren  (eafrisA),  alayeni  of  Vrittra  or  of  foes  (critlraAanG), 
and  shakers  of  cities,  iii.  12,  4,  6  (Jndrtlgnl  nocatim  puro  duwpotnlr 
adhunuUxm  [  $alam  ekena  karmanO) ;  vi.  59,  3 ;  vi.  00, 3 ;  vii.  93,  1,4; 
▼iii.  38,  2.***  They  are  also  invited  together  to  come  and  drink 
(vii.  93,  6 ;  viii.  38,  4,  7-9),  and  are  together  invoked  for  help,  vii.  94, 
7  (Imdrugni  acuta  &  gatam  atmahhyaHi  charthanitahu).  In  one  place, 
i.  109,  4,  they  are  called  aivina,  "  horsemen."  (See  Midler,  as  quoted 
at  the  foot  of  the  pugo).  Agoi  is  ebc where  said  to  exercise  alone  the 
function  usually  assigned  to  Indra,  and  to  slay  Vrittra  and  destroy 
cities,  i.  59,  6  (  Vaiiv&narv  datyum  Agnir  jaghanran  adh&not  ktithtkth 
ata  S"amlaram  lh*t) ;  i.  78,  4  {tarn  u  tea"  rfittrahantamam  ye  Jmy&n 
aradfiinwke  |  dyumnoir  abhi  pra  ttonttmnS) ;  vi.  16,  14,  89,  48  {rrittr*- 
htimam  purandaram  \  Agnt  puro  ntrojitha) ;  vii.  5,  3 ;  vii.  6,  2 ;  viii. 
63,  4.  He  is  also  described  as  driving  away  tlio  Dasyus  from  the  house, 
thus  erecting  a  large  light  for  the  Aryn,  vii.  5,  6  (for*  d/uyam  akamh 
ajah  urn  jyoiir  Janayann  SryQya,  compare  i.  39,  2,  and  r_  69,  6),  at  the 
promoter  of  tho  Arya,  viii.  92.  1  (ilryatya  vardhanam  Agmxt),  and  as 
the  vanquisher  of  the  irreligious  Pants,  vii.  6,  3  (m*  akratin  gralAmo 
mridkrarfichah  panVt  airuddhiin  avridhdn  ayaj'nSn  |  pra  pra  tan  dasyHn 
Agnir  vic&ya  purvai  chal&ra  aparan  ayajynn), — although  it  is  Indra 
-who  is  moat  frequently  represented  in  the  hymns  as  the  patron  and 
helper  of  tho  sacred  race,  and  tho  destroyer  of  their  enemies.  On  the 
other  hand,  in  viii.  38,  I,  where  the  two  gods  are  called  two  priests 
{yajnatya  ritai/fl),  Indra  is  mudu  to  share  in  tho  character  peculiar  to 
Agni.*"    In  hymn  i.  93,  Agoi  and  Soma  arc  celebrated  in  company. 

"*  Th«  void  so  rrnrtiirnl  U  ihehamatarn.  Sayanu  »J*  it  mraiu  that  their  BJatksr 
Ailiii  i»  hiTc  unit  tliere,  i.i.  everywhere  Both,  #.c.  unilorrtJimi*  it  to  mean  thit  to* 
taetost  '>f  tlio  ono  it  hoto,  of  the  other  there,  id.  in  Alffmnl  fltev.  Curapv*  iUU 
pie  Il.V,  t,  47, 1.     Sec  Miillur"*  L/eturc*  on  Language  ii.  496. 

»♦  Comport'  A.V.  iv.  23.  |  j  \ii.  110,  I  f. 

**•  C»a>l>«re  the  wordi  attributed  to  Indra  in  x.  113,  13  above,  p.  PL 


METRICAL  SKETCH  OK  AGS1  JJJ 

(6)  Agni, — a  metrical  tktkh. 

Great  Agni,  though  thine  essence  be  but  one, 
Thy  forms  aro  three ;  as  lire  thou  Lltuost  here, 
As  lightning  flashest  in  the  ntmo.*ph 

In  heaven  thon  flamest  as  the  gulden  son. 

It  vu  in  heaven  thou  hadrt  thy  primal  birth ; 
By  art  of  sago*  skilled  in  sor-rcd  lore 
Thou  wart  drawn  down  to  human  hearths  jf  yore, 

And  thou  ubid'st  a  denizen  of  earth. 

Sprung  from  the  mystic  pair,*-  by  priestly  hands 
In  wedlock  joined,  forth  flashes  Agni  bright ; 
But, — o  ye  Heavens  and  Earth,  I  te  11  you  right, — 

The  unnatural  child  devours  the  parent  brands. 

Nut.  Agni  is  a  god  :  we  must  not  deem 

That  ho  can  err,  or  dor*  to  t 

Hi*  acts,  which  far  our  reason's  grasp  transcend  : 
He  best  can  judge  what  deeds  a  god  beseem. 

And  yet  this  orphaned  god  himself  survive* : 
Although  hi*  hapless  mother  soon  expires, 
And  cannot  nurse  the  bal>e,  an  babe  requires, — 

Great  Agni,  wondrous  infant,  grows  and  thrive*. 

Smoke-bannered  Agni,  god  with  crackling  voice 
And  flaming  hair,  when  thou  ilmt  {lime  the  plwru 
At  early  mom,  and  all  the  world  illume, 

Both  Heaven  and  Earth  and  gods  and  men  rcjuit c 

In  every  home  thou  art  a  welcome  guest ; 

The  household'*  tutelary  lord ;  a  son, 

A  father,  mother,  brother,  all  in  one ; 
A  friend  by  whom  thy  faithful  friends  aro  blest. 

«•  Tke  two  pieces  of  fuel  by  tbe  attrition  of  which  Ire  is  productd,  which,  as  »t 
i  above,  ore  rrprtacatnl  m  husband  and  wife. 


222  METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  AC-NT. 

A  swift- winged  messenger,  thou  collect  down 
From  heaven,  to  crowd  our  hearths,  the  race  divine, 
To  tniite  our  food,  our  hvmn3  to  hour,  benign, 
And  all  our  fondest  aspiration*  crown. 

Thou,  Agni,  art  our  priest,  divinely  wise, 
In  ImU  Bnd|  thy  skill  detects 

Tho  fault*  that  mm  our  rites,  mistakes  corrects, 

And  all  our  act*  complete*  and  sanctifies. 

Thou  art  the  cord  that  stretches  to  tho  ikies, 

The  bridge  that  flpana  the  chasm,  profound  and  vast. 
Dividing  Earth  from  Heaven,  o'er  which  at  hut 

Tho  good  shall  safely  pom  to  Paradise. 

But  when,  great  god,  thine  awful  anger  glows, 
And  thou  revcalcst  thy  destroying  force, 
All  creature*  flee  before  thy  furioua  eoum, 

A*  host*  are  chased  by  overpowering  foe*. 

Thou  lcvellcst  all  thou  touchest ;  forest*  vast 

Thou  ahear'st  like  boards  which  barber**  raxor  s\ 
Thy  wind-driven  flames  roar  load  a*  ocean-wavt*, 

And  all  thy  track  is  black  when  thou  hast  post. 

Cut  thou,  great  Agni,  dost  not  always  wear 
That  direful  form ;  thou  rather  lov*st  to  shine 
Upon  our  hearth*  with  milder  flame  benign, 

And  cheer  the  homes  where  thou  art  nursed  with  care. 

Yes,  thou  dclightost  all  thoso  men  to  bless, 
Who  toil,  unwearied,  to  supply  tho  food 
"Which  thou  bo  lovest,  logs  of  well-dried  wood, 

And  heaps  of  butter  bring, — thy  favourite  mess. 

Though  T  no  cow  posse**,  and  have  no  store 
Of  butter, — nor  an  axe  fresh  wood  to  cleave, 
Thou,  gracious  god,  wilt  my  poor  gift  receive, — 

These  few  dry  sticks  I  bring ;  I  have  no  more. 


METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  AONL  223 

Preserve  us,  lord,  thy  faithful  servants  save 
From  all  the  ills  by  which  our  bliss  is  marred ; 
Tower  like  an  iron  wall  our  homes  to  guard, 

And  all  the  boons  bestow  our  hearts  can  crave. 

And  when  away  our  brief  existence  wanes, 

When  we  at  length  our  earthly  homes  must  quit, 
And  our  freed  souls  to  worlds  unknown  shall  flit, 

Do  thou  deal  gently  with  our  cold  remains ; 

And  then  thy  gracious  form  assuming,  guide 

Our  unborn  part  across  the  dark  abyss 

Aloft  to  realms  serene  of  light  und  bliss, 
Where  righteous  men  among  the  gods  abide. 


834 


SECTION   XIV. 


T7ABUTRI. 


This  god,  who  in  the  Inter  mythology  ia  rcgardod  as  one  of  the 
Adityas,"'  bub  as  wo  havo  even  (in  the  section  on  those  deities)  doc* 
not  bear  that  character  in  the  hymns  of  the  Rig-veda,  is  the  Hophaistos, 
or  Vulcan,  of  the  Indian  pantheon,  the  ideal  artist,  the  divine  artisan, 
tho  most  skilful  of  workmen,  who  i«  versed  in  all  wonderful  and  admir- 
able contrivances,  x.  53,  9  (Tvtuhfd  milt/Oh  red  apcuUm  aptu(cmak). 
Ho  sharpens  the  iron  axe  of  Brahman aapali,  ibid,  {tiiitt  rnimin  paraimm 
iniyasam  yma  vritohad  ttaio  Iirahmantupatih)  •  and  forges  tho  thunder- 
bolts  of  Indra,*4*  i  32,  i  (TVasA/d  asmai  rujram  graryam  latakaha);  L 
52,  7;  i.  61,  6;  i.  85,  9;  v.  31,  4;  vi.  17,  10;  x.  48,  3;  which  are 
ilied  as  golden  (hiranyat/a)  i.  85,  9,  or  of  iron  (<2y<M«)  x.  48,  3, 
with  a  thousand  points  (*ah<urabhruA{i)  and  a  hundred  edge*  {iaUirt\ 
i.  85,  9;  vi.  17,  10  (sec  above,  p.  86).  He  is  styled  ittpAni,  tvgabkuti, 
the  beautiful-,  or  skilful-handed,  iii.  51,  12 ;  vi.  49,  9 ;  ttapa*,  nlril, 
the  -.kilful  worker,  L  85,  9;  iii.  54,  12  ;  tihar&pa,3"  the  omnifona,  or 
archetype,  of  all  forme,  i.  13,  10 ;  iii.  55, 19  ;**»  x.  10,  5;  and  $acilp, 
the  vivirier,  iii.  55,  19;  x.  10,  5.  Ho  imparts  goneratiTO  power  and 
bestows   offspring,"1  i.  142,    10  [Urn  not  turipam  adlhutam   ouru  ta 


**  See  the  4th  vol.  of  tliis  work.  pp.  103  ff. 

!M  Aeeordisg  to  B.V.  L  121,  3,  Indra  himself  (?)  u  (aid  to  have  fashioned  the 

thur.ilcfbolt  (taliAad  njram). 

u*   Id  iii.  38,  4,  I  hi:  epithet  tu'curijia  in  applied  to  another  Rod, — Indra  acooidlBg 
toiUjarja. 

**•  Quoted  in  Nirukta  x.  34.    8«e  Both'a  il'mirationi  of  that  wurk,  p.  144,  where 
the  word  inuir>  is  said  to  be  an  epithet  of  Traslnri 

*"  In  A.V.  vi.  81,  3,  Tva»htfi  i*  *aid  to  have  hound  the  amnlct  which  Aditi  wort 
wh*n  »h«  wn*  dc*iroi»  of  otI»pnnjr,  on  the  arm  of  a  female,  in  order  that  »he  might 
hear  a  ton  {yam  parihtUam  abiiKar  Aditilf  pulraASmyu  |  Tra*A(*  tarn  tyii  i 
ktdk*lid  yallui  pmlrmm  jan3d  itt).  InAV.ii.  1.  I,  Aditi  ix  uiil  to  have  cooked  a 
brabraandnna  oblation  when  desirous  of  sons  {Aiiitir  tmthitZ  iy#»i  SrwAau 
potUti  ptiraAoaui).    See  the  1  rt  roL  of  this  work,  p.  26. 


TTASHTRI. 


wa 


aram  purv  tman*  |  TvathfA  pofkHya  «"  «y*/«  rily4  mabha  no  aama- 
yui)  ;  iii.  4,  9  =  TiL  2,  9  (ftw  naa  turlpam  adha  po*hayilnu  d*tm 
Ttathfar  ci  raranah  tyaita  |  yato  tirah  karmanyak  tttdaktho  yukta- 
aravi  jdyaU  devakfimah) ;  vii.  34,  20  [fi  yan  nah  patmlr  gtmitnti 
achha  Ttathfa  supanir  dadhiitu  vlrAn);  compare  Vaj.  S«nh.  xxi.  20; 
xxii.  20;  xxvii.  20;  and  A.V.  ii.  29,  2.  lie  forms  husband  and 
wife  for  each  other,  even  from  the  womb,  11. V.  x.  10,  .1  (garbh* 
mm  mu  janita  damp*! I  tar  dtvat  Tva*h,ti  tavitH  visraritpah) ; 
A.V.  vi.  78,  3  (TcMltfH  jsydm  ajanayal  TrathlA  atyai  ham  patim). 
He  developed  tho  seminal  germ  in  the  womb,  and  is  tho  simper 
of  all  forma,  human  and  animal,  R.V.  i.  188,  9  (TctuAfn  rZpiini 
hi  prabhuh  paiCtn  viivGn  tam&najt);  viii.  91,  8  (Tvathfd  rUptta  Ink- 
tkyo);  x  184,  1  (Vitfinur  yom'm  HtlftjfitM  Trathfil  rnp<i*i  pimialu); 
A.V.  ii.  26,  1  j  r.  26,  8  ;  ix.  4,  6  (ZW.  ,,;,;,  janiUi  paiAnam)  \ 

Vaj.  8.  xxxi.  17;  Taitt  Saihh.  i.  5,  9,  1,  2 ;  i.  6,  4,  4 ;  vi.  p.  65a  (of 
India  Office  MS.  7Va*Afd  tai  reiatah  liktaiya  rftpani  tikaroti  |  tarn  tra 
vriJmnum  patntihr  api*r!jnt»  $o  'jxrtai  rtipftni  rikarati) ;  Siitapotliu  Br. 
i.  9,  2.  10  (TV/wArd  vai  itklaih  reto  vikaroti);  xiii.  1,  8,  7.  Compare 
ii.  2,  8,  4;  iii.  7,  3.  11.  He  has  produced  nnd  nourish**  a  groat 
s  of  creaturee;  all  worlds  (or  beings)  are  his,  and  are  known  to 
him ;  he  has  given  to  the  heaven  and  earth  and  to  all  thing*  | 
forms,  iii.  65,  19  (deeat  Tia*fi(J  taiilCt  risrarupah  pupotha  prap'ib  ptm- 
dhajajana  \  itad  cha  ciit  :i  a*ya) ;  iv.  42,  3  {Tvathfrva  r!ir& 

Murandni  rnfofo) ;  x.  110,  9  [yah  iuu  4y>\  ripair 

gpMad  hfaaan&ni  %ifr&).  Tho  Vaj.  S.  xxix.  9,  says:  TVasA/d  cvrrr.'i 
d+rak&mem  (oomp.  R.V.  iii.  4,  9,  quoted  above)  jajSm  7\a*bf*r  art* 
jayat*  Siur  ahah  \  TtatSftdaiu  tikatn  bhuraruun  Jyuna  |  "  Tvashtp 
has  generated  a  strong  man,  a  lover  of  the  gods.  From  TVashtri  »«  pro- 
duced a  swift  horso.  Tvashtri  has  created  the  whole  world."  lie 
boetowa  long  life,  H.V.  x.  18,  6  {iha  7ba*A/a  tujam'm'i  ujaxhiih  if' 
dyuA  karati jtttot  rah) ;  A.V.  vi.  78,  3  (TtafAfd  Mhatram  ayuOafu  «*)/- 
gham  uyur  karotu  rdm).  He  puts  speed  into  the  legs  of  a  horse,  Vaj. 8. 
ix.  8  =  A.V.  vi.  92,  1  (d  t*  Ttathfcl  paltu  jar  am  dodhUlu).  In 
17,  ho  is  said  to  be  skilled  in  all  Suma-tcxt*  and  to  have  created 
Brahmanaspnti  above  all  crenturos  (vihebhyo  hi  Ua  bhucantbkytu  pari 
7\a»k(ti  junai  iimnah  rtmnah  ta-vih),  and  i^ 

and  earth,  tho  waters,  and  the  Bhrigas,  to  have  genet  i   x.  2, 

15 


226 


I  TBI. 


7 ;  x.  46,  9  (DyiUd  $$m  At/mm  privitkl  janithfiim  Gpai  TVcthfa  Bhp- 
garo  yam  tnhobhih);  compare  i.  95,  2.*1*  Ho  u  master  of  the  nnirtm 
(b/uuantuya  iaLthagi),  ii.  31,  4;  a  first-bora  protector  and  leader,  ix. 
6,  9  ( Tccuhtaram  agny'dih  gopiim  puroyacSnam  a  hmt);  compare  i.  13, 
10.  lie  is  a  companion  of  tho  Angirases,  x.  70,  9  {gad  Angiraiam 
abhavah  tachabh&h),  and  knows  the  region  of  the  gods  {deriinUm  putlmk 
upa  pro.  vuluCin  uian  yafuhi).  Ho  is  supplicated  to  nourish  Uie  war- 
ifcjppct  end  protect  his  sacrifice.  Ho  is  dravincd<u,  the  bestowcr  of  blow- 
ing*, and  turalna,  possessed  of  abundant  wealth,  x.  70,  9,  uad  x.  OS, 
1 1 ;  mill  i*  asked,  like  other  gods,  to  take  pleasure  in  tho  hymn*  of  hi* 
worshippers,  and  to  grant  them  riches,  vii.  31,  21  f.  (prati  nak  ttemam 
Tcatkfd  jutketa  \  Tca»hl&  $udAlro  *»'  dadkotu  riyak). 

Ttnshtri  is  in  several  passages  connected  with  the  llibhos,  who,  lil» 
In  ii  i.  are  celebrated  as  skilful  workmen  (see  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's 
I,i  a i i*oii,  i  v.),  who  faslii"  i's  chariot  and  horses,  made  their* 

parents  young,  etc.,  i.  Ill,  1  (Uitthan  ralhaSt  tuerilam  ulmana  '« 
ttktkan  hart  iHdrarilha  rrixhantat*  \  Uthhm  pitrilkgAm  Ribhan 
yuv*d  rayab),  i.  1 C 1 ,  7  ;  iv.  33,  3 ;  It.  35,  5  ;  iv.  36,  3 ;  and  are  spoken 
of  by  Siiyana  (on  i.  20,  6)  as  Trashy'*  pupils  [tekhago-ryapOn- 
l*<mi<u'j<t  Teathtvh  iUhy&h  Ribhavuh).  Theee  Uilhus  arc  said  to  hare 
made-  into  four  a  single  now  sacrificial  cup  which  Tvaahtri  bad  funned 
(i.  20,  6.  uU  tyam  chamtuaA  tuitam  Ttiukftw  dertuya  nukiy-iUm  | 
akorllst  thaturah  punah  |  i.  110,  3).  This  exhibition  of  skill  is  said  to 
huvo  lip.n  performed  by  command  of  tho  god*,  and  in  consequence  of  a 
promise  that  its  accomplishment  should  be  rewarded  by  their  exalt- 
ation to  divine  honours,  i.  161,  1-5,  (verso  2,  yadi  m  IsrMyati* 
tikau  drxair  yajniyfiio  ikariikyatks).  Tvaotyri  is  in  this  passage  re- 
presented as  becoming  ashamed  and  hiding  himself  among  the  goddeasea 
when  hu  saw  this  oltemli  in  of  his  work,  verse  4  (yodd  'ratkyat  rAa- 
MdsuN  ekaturak  kfitun  ad  ii  Tnstkfii  gnJsu  antm  ni  G*aj$),  and  as  restat- 
ing this  change  in  his  own  manufacture  as  n  slight  to  himself,  and  as 
baring  in  consequence  sought  to  slay  his  rivals,  rerso  5  (A*»d»«  sad* 
Hi  7VimA/u  gad  abraeil  cJmmtuaii  gederapumam  am'udiikuh).  In  another 
place  (it.  33,  5,  6),  on  the  contrary,  he  is  said  to  bare  applauded 


*"  Who  it  Urn  being  vim  cUimt,  ia  i.  1Z5,  I  f.  to  witain  Trashtri  aad  other  gsds 
(*U«  tmmsm  akitum—m  Mtuirmi  «A«m  TmklHm) ? 


TVA9HTIU'S  DACOIITER  AND  HKI!  WEDB1KQ. 


227 


their  design,  and  admired  the  brilliant  result*  of  their  skill  (vibhriija- 
min&fi*  ehamatun  aha  i'ra  avmat  Tcathfd  ehaturo  dadrHvan)."* 

In  z.  66,  10,  the  llibhus  are  spoken  of  u  the  supporters  of  the  sky 
{dharliro  dirah  Ribharah  mhattfiK). 

In  ii.  1,  5,  Agni  is  identified  with  Tvnsbtri,  as  he  is  also,  howcrcr, 
with  many  other  gods  in  other  verses  of  the  sumo  hymn.  In  i.  95,  6, 
Agni  appear*  to  bo  designated  by  tho  word  Tvashtri.  In  vi.  47,  19, 
where  Tvasktri  is  spoken  of  as  yoking  his  horses  and  shining  resplen- 
dently  {yunjuno  hart'la  rathe  bhdri  Tvath\eha  rGjali),  tho  commontator 
•oppose*  that  Indrn  is  referred  to.** 


(2)  Traehfri'a  dauyhUr  and  her  wtdding. 

In  x.  17,  1  f.  Trasb(ri  is  said  to  have  given  his  daughter  Saranyii  i» 
marriage  to  Vivasvat:  "Tcath^a  duhitre  tahaiuA  Irinoii"  Hi  idaA  f»"<- 
tam  thucanam  umtfti  |  Yamatya  mala  paryufiyamuml  mahojayu  Vim- 
rata  nandia  |  apagiihann  amriUm  martybhyah  Ifilrl  savar$a~m  adadur 
YxtanaU  |  ul&hinat  abharad  yal  tad  uild  ajahtid  u  did  mithund  Sure*- 
ytih  |  "Tvashtri  make*  a  wedding  for  his  daughter.  (Hearing)  this 
tho  wholo  world  assemble*.  Tho  mother  of  Yamn,  tho  wedded  wife  of 
tho  great  Vivasvat,  disappeared.  S.  They  concealed  tho  immortal 
(bride)  from  mortals.  Making  (another)  of  like  appearance,  they  gave 
her  to  Vivasvat.  Saranyu  bore  tho  two  A -Wins,  and  when  she  had 
done  so,  she  deserted  tho  two  twins.*'  These  two  verses  aro  quoted  in 
the  Nirukta,  xii.  10  f.,  where  tho  following  illustrative  story  is  told : 
Tatra  itihuiam  dchakthate  \  TviUhfri  Saraayur  VuntraU^  Aditydd 
yomuu  mithtatau  janaydnehakdra  |   ni  tatarmim  amji'xm  prittinidhuya 

m  Sec  the  Aitarrra  Brflhmnna,  iii.  30,  pp  210  f.  of  Frofeaaor  llaag'a  translation, 
ihiu  had  by  their  aoatere  fervour,  it  U  Uirrr  uid,  conquered  for  thuruerna  a 
rif  lit  to  partake  ia  the  *om»  HbatioM  among  tho  gods  (£4A*m  m*  <Ur*tk*  tqmi 
apauipTtAam  tiiy^tyan),  which,  hciwerer,  they  w«r«  only  allowed  to  do  alan-;  wi'.h 
8mi:ri  (  =  T»a»htri  i),  to  wliota  ProjSp»ti  had  wid,  Tktte  ar«  thj  pupila;  do  thou 
alon*  drink  with  them ;  lam  Mi  im*  anUrit4*  ftwai  rrw  rWiA  Hm^*ffii);  and  with 
Prajapati.  The  gods,  however,  it  i»  aid,  luathi-d  that  deified  mortal*  nn  on 
their  hinrton  nn*ll  (frMjiu  r«i  drriA  ape  n*  ebiUcttanf  auimuhjia^tiuUitl  ;  and 
accordingly  placed  two  Dliiyyi*  (particular  «»<)  Iwrwron  thnruwlrfti  tod  the  Kialiaa. 

•"  On  the  oh»cnrr.  panage,  i.  84,  lfi,  where  the  name  of  Traatitri  i»  nwntioaid,  th* 
reader  may  eeosalt  Wil«on'»  trar.dation  and  notr,  IV'fetw  lloth't  explanation  in  hia 
IDuatratioaa  of  the  NiruVu,  p.  49,  and  Profcteor  IWnfry'i  version  in  his  Orient  and 
Occident,  ii 


228 


TVASHTRI'S  DAUGHTER  AND  HER  WEDDINQ. 


tJiraiS  tvpatit  kritiil  pradadrdm  |  so-  Vivtuvti*  Adityah  OJcaA  tea 
iritti  tdm  mmpitya  sambabh&va  I  tato  'ivinau  jajnOU  larorn/ly&m 
JfinuiA  |  "  Saranyu,  the  daughter  of  Tvashtri,  boro  twins  to  Yivasrot, 
the  son  of  Aditi.  She  then  substituted  for  herself  another  femaln  of 
eimilar  uppcurancc,  and  fled  in  the  form  of  a  mare.  Yivasvat  in  like 
manner  assumed  tho  shape  of  a  horse,  and  followed  Iier.   From  th 

.;rsc  sprang  two  Airine,  while  Msuu  was  the  offspring  of  Snvanji 
(or  tit©  female  of  like  uppcarunco)."  8oc  Roth's  interpretation  of  R.Y, 
x.  17,  1  11.  and  remarks  thereon,  in  the  Journal  of  tho  German  Orieol 
Society,  ir.  124 ft  j  and  the  same  writer's  trauslatioa,  in  bis  Illustra- 
tions of  the  Nirukta,  p.  161,  of  a  passage  of  the  Brihaddevata,  quoted 
try  Suyaija  on  11.  V.  vii.  72,  2,  relating  the  camo  story  about  Yiramt 
•ad  Siirmjyii  which  is  given  iu  llic  Kirukta.  That  passage  is  as  fol- 
lows :  Abhavad  milhunafn  Teashfup  Sari\*yHs  TriiirHh  taha   |   ta  r*i 

ijHm  priiynchhat  stayam  eva  VinumU  |  talah  Saranyrnin  jHU  U 
Yamayamyau  Vuascatah  |  Mr  apy  vbhr.tt  yamilv  era  Ay  Qtt-um  YamyO. 
cha  vai  Yamah  \  SfUhfca  lharttuh  parokihaut  lu  SaranyQfi  tadfiiim 
ttfiyam  |  nikihipya  tnithunau  ttuy&ut  ai<u  bhuttd  prachalramt  |  arijnn- 
,•  ajannytul  Manvm  \  rujnrthir  a»\t  ta  Manwr 
Yitatvan  r'ra  tejtua  |  *»  vijndya  ajnikr&ntiltit  Sara*yiim  atmimpinim  | 
Ti'utlfrim  prati  iiiguinrivit  viiji  IhutcS  aaiakthanaii  \  Sartinyus  tu  P$t*f 
WWriirf  tffft&fi  /ni'/iirilpinam  |  maithwtHyopathakriima  tiifft  M  Mtrdrv 
foha  tah  |  tatas  tayos  l\t  vegem  iukraiii   tad  apatad  hiuri  |  ttpujtykrat 

t  Iv  aicu  tat  MfM  o-irbha-k&myayt  j  dghriina-mutrat  ivkrait 
tat  kumdrau  MMfoMOMto$  \  WSmtyai  eJmtra  Datrai  cha  yau  itutuc 
>  |  "  Tvashtp  had  twin  children,  (a  daughter)  Saranyu,  and 
(a  son)  TriSirns.  II  -um-  Surany  0  in  marriage  to  Yivasvat,  to  whom 
she  bore  Yuma  aud  Yuml,  who  alto  were  twins.  Creating  a  female 
like  herself  without  her  husband's  knowledge,  and  making  the  twina 
over  in  charge  to  her,  Saranyu  took  the  form  of  a  mare,  and  departed. 
Vi\  .mat,  in  ignorance,  begot,  on  the  female  who  was  left,  Mann,  a  royal 
rishi.  who  resembled  his  lather  iu  glory.  But  discovering  that  the 
real  Saranyfi,  Trashtri'a  daughter,  hod  gono  away,  Yivasvnt  followed 
ly,  taking  tho  shape  of  a  horse  of  tho  some  species  as  she. 
Recognizing  htm  in  that  form  alio  approached  him  with  the  desire  of 
sexual  connection,  which  he  gratified.  In  their  haste  his  seed  fell 
on  tho  ground,  and  she,  being  dcurous  of  offspring,  unci  led  it    From 


1  U" 

re* 

tal 

re- 

i 

: 


HOSTILITY  OF  INDRA  AXD  TVASIITl.tl. 


no 


this  act  sprang  the  two  Kunmras  (youths)  Naaatya  and  Dasra,  wlio  ore 
lauded  a*  Ainu  (sprang  from  a  hone)." 

In  R.V.  riii.  26,  21  f.,  m  we  have  already  econ,  p.  Ill,  Vayu  also  is 
spoken  of  as  Tvash?ri's  son-in-law.  Whether  Vuyu's  wife  was  different 
from  Saranyu,  or  wbuther  there  is  a  discrepancy  between  this  story 
and  the  one  just  referred  to  about  Vivasvnt,  does  not  appear. 

Tva«htri  is  represented  as  having  for  his  most  frequent  attendunU  tho 
wives  of  the  gods,  i.  22,  9  (Jjmpalnlr  iha  fi  raha  ikvdnum  uial\r  upa  \ 
Tcatki&ratU  somapltaye);  ii.  31,  -1;  ii.  30,  3;  vi.  50,  13;  vii.  35,  6; 
x.  64,  10;  x.  60,  3.  This,  according  to  Professor  Both,  *.i\,  results 
from  the  fact  that  it  is  i n  the  wombs  of  females  that  his  creative  action 
is  principally  manifested. 

In  x.  49,  10,  ho  is  spoken  of  as  if  ho  wore  a  deity  of  some  import- 
one*,  though  inferior  to  Indr.t,  since  tho  latter  is  said  to  place  in  the 
rirorB  d  lucid  element,  which  even  Tvoshtri,  though  a  god,  could  not  do 
(aham  tad  aiu  dhurayam  yad  Hot  na  devai  ohaiia  Tiathta  ad  ha  ray  ad 
ruiat). 

(3)  JloitilUy  of  Intra  and  Tiatlfri. 

India  is  occasionally  represented  as  in  a  state  of  hostility  with 
Troshtri  and  his  son.™  Thns  in  iii.  48,  4,  it  is  said  that  India  over- 
came him,  and  carried  off  his  soma-juioe,  which  he  drank  from  the 
cops  (Ttatftfurtun  Indra  Januihil  'bhibkaya  dmuthya  t«mam  apibaf  eha~ 
mmhu),  and  in  iv.  18,  3,  that  tho  same  god  drank  off  the  soma  in  his 
boose  (TWuA/w-  trih$  apibat  tomam  Indrak).  In  explanation  of  thoso 
allauons,  the  commentator,  who  in  his  note  on  iii.  48,  4,  calls  Trash tri 
an  Asora(7V«^/fWM7maia;/i  aturam),  refers  to  the Taittirlya  Sanbita,  ii. 
4,  12,  1,  where  it  is  related  that  Trashtri,  whose  son  hid  been  slain 
by  Indra,  began  to  perform  a  soma-sacrifiee  in  the  absence  of  the 
lutu-r,  and  refused,  on  the  ground  of  his  homicide,  to  allow  him  to 
assist  at  the  ceremony ;  when  Indrn  interrupted  the  celebration,  and 
drank  off  the  soma  by  force  (Thathiil  hataputro  tlndram  tomam  dkarat  \ 
tatmina  Indrak  upakatam  aichhaU  |  Unit  na  updktayaia  "pulram  me 


M  In  L  80.  H  (ses  abovo,  p.  W),  It  is  taid  that  erea  Trasluri  trembles  at  latin's 
wnith  when  he  t&undtn.  But  this  tr.nl  U  merely  introduced  to  inlicate  th*  terrific 
grandeur  of  India's  manifoutiani.  la  My  Ssali.  u.  tt.  l'vs<li{ri  is  said  to  kava 
Uapartsd  «igom  to  India  (TYrtj&fi  ItdUt  imhm*m  lndray*  erisAy). 


ano 


HOSTILITY  OP  INDRA  AND  TYasII  I  n! 


'xodhir  "  ili  |  ja  yajna-ieiiuaffi  kritrd  prOtaAd  tovtaui  optbat  |  Then 
words  are  repeated  in  ii.  5,  2,  1 ).  Compare  Satapatha  Brahmaga,  L  6, 
3,  C  ff. ;  T.  6,  4,  7ff. ;  xii.  7,  1,  1 ;  xii.  8,  3,  1  ff. 

The  son  of  Tvash(ri  is  mentioned  in  two  passages  of  the  Uig-veda. 
In  x.  8,  8,  it  ia  said :  5a  pitryani  uytulk&ni  tidvtin  iwirtthitah 
abhy  ayutlhyat  |  (rUlnhanam  taptaraimim  jaghtmtt*  Tv2th(rtuym  dim 
tuk  aatrO'e  Trite  gSh  |  9.  Bh&ri  id  Indrtk  udiimManiam  opt  n&bki—t 
'/r  mtnyamuttam  \  Tuishtratya  chid  Viirariipaiya  gon&m  lidlt 
krSga*  trlgi  iirihd  pari  wrtt  |  "This  Tritu  Aptyo,  knowing  hit 
paternal  weapon*,  and  impelled  by  India,  fought  against  the  thrte- 
hcoded  and  seven-rayed  (monster),  and  slaying  him,  ho  carried  off  the 
cows  even  of  the  Bon  of  Tvaahtri.  9.  Indra,  the  lord  of  tho  good, 
pierced  this  arrogant  being,  who  boosted  of  his  great  force ;  seizing  the 
cows,  he  struck  off  tho  three  heads  even  of  Viivar&pa  the  son  of 
T.:i  lijri  (or  of  tho  omaiform  son  of  Trasht,ri)."  (Compare  ii.  11,  19). 
A  loud-shouting  monster  with  three  heads  and  six  eye*,  perhaps  idea* 
ticol  with  the  son  of  Tvaahtri,  is  also  mentioned  in  x.  99,  6,  as  baring 
betrn  overcome  by  Indra  or  Trita  (so  id  dutum  tuviravaui  patir  d*» 
thitlaktham  trislrthnmm  damanyat  \  asyti  Trifo  nu  ojtuti  rfidhaM  vipa 
taruham  ayoagrayA  Ann). 

Ipa  is  iiviiutntly  mentioned  in  later  works. 

According  to  the  Tuittiriya  SanhilA,  ii.  5,  1,  1  IT.,  he  was  the 
of  tho  gods,  while  he  was  sister's  son  (no  further  guucalogy  ia  given) 
of  tho  A8URU.M    Ha  had  thrco  hoods,  colled  respectively  the  euma- 

»*  I  rubjoin  a  passage  from  the  same  Sttnhlti.  vi.  4,  10,  1  (p.  49  of  Iadia  OSes 
MS.,  N<>.  17"-)  t  roiatng  to  tho  god*  mid  Asura*.  Ihajt  original  »^uaUty  in  good* 
bum  sad  power,  and  their  respective  priest*.  Brikaijxitir  dtxHmim  //**»*>'*) 
KB  itindllinarktv  tuurniy/lm  \  braSmanvanli)  ifttUfi  ban  braHmamnnto  'rurak  |  U 
'tifonyam  *AJakn*c**»  oAMMaritum  |  t*  tlnah  imuJamarkat  HpoButrntrnytU*  | 
lac  tbritthm  "titram  ep'n«*<iAti»  yrahic  rut  n5v  alrapi  frihfttMm"  iti  \  ttiiylm 
•'jrihniiH  [  laio  dtt<ih  ittah  abliAtatt  pari  'utr,'ih  |  yj»yi»ir*i% 
wiiiukah  ivkromantMiKm  grihyttt  ihavaly  etmani  pan!  a»ya  Hrafp'ryci  W«r- 
turn  rftwA  apmt<ta\a  o/mm  Tmtr5ySjuAm-*k  |  ilySJi  |  "  BriWpati  was  lb*  priest  of 
tbe  gods,  S'Hiida  and  Marka  the  priost*  of  the  Aturas.  Tho  gods  wire  ikisnl 
■ml  so  wore  tho  Ararat.  Neither  could  overcome  the  other.  Tho  gods  united 
Ii  and  Msrka,  who  said,  •  Lot  us  uk  a  fsTpur;  let  draughts  also  be  offered 
to  us.'  Tho  gods,  ia  consequence,  allowed  to  them  tho  »'uVr»  »uj  maDthia  drsB|bts, 
•lid  by  doing  so  became  gods,  end  tho  Asunu  were  wonted.  Tbe  nun  who  knows' 
this  anil  sots  seermtiiigly  pru«rxrs  himself  sad  his  enemy  succumbs.  The  gods 
sent  swsy  S'aods  and  Marks  and  offered  up  thcinselres  to  Iadrs,"  Compere  the 
Sat.  Br.  iv.  -.',  1 ,  4  if.     According  to  the  Kifhoka  25,  7,  quoted  ia  Indssche  Stodka 


: 


HOSTILITY  OP  INDEX  AND  TVASIITM 


231 


drinker,  the  wine-drinker,  and  the  food-eater.  Ho  declared  in  publio 
that  ibo  Mctifioea  should  be  shored  by  the  gods  only,  while  he  privut<  -ly 
recommended  that  they  should  bo  offered  to  the  Aeuxus.  For,  a»  tho 
author  of  tbo  Brahmana  remarks,  it  ia  customary  for  people-  in  publio 
to  promise  every  one  a  share,  whereas  it  ii  only  those  to  whom  the 
promise  is  privately  made  who  obtain  iU  fulfilment  Indra  was 
alarmed  lest  his  dominion  should  by  this  procedure  of  Viswupa  he 
overturned,  and  ho  accordingly  smote  off  his  heada  with  a  thunderbolt. 
The  three  heads  were  turned  into  birds,  the  one  called  Nome-drinker 
became  a  Kupinjahi  (or  Fraucolino  pnrtridge),  the  Win..-- drinker  a 
Kalarinka  (or  sparrow),  and  the  Food-eater  a  Tittiri  (or  partridge),  etc. 
(PtfrerSjw  co i  Tc-Athfrah  purokito  deruwim  'Uit  tratrlgo  'turumim  | 
Uuga  trlni  ilrthting  utan  tomapAnam  turApAnam  aumldanam  \  ta  prat- 
gaitham  dtvtbhgo  bkSgam  aradat  parokiham  aturtbhgah  I  nrriumai 
pratgaltham  bh&g&fk  vaianti  \  yiutmni  eta  parokiham  tadanii  taiga 
lhagih  ttditah  |  tarmAd  Indro  'bibhed  Idriii  rai  rAthfram  pargArarttagati 
iti  taiga  rajram  AdSya  ilrthAng  arhhinat  \  gat  tomapAnain  A  ill  ta  kapin- 
jafo  'bhartt  \  gat  turApAnam  ta  kalavinkah  \  gad  ann&danaih  ta  li>' 
Tho  Sataputha  Bruhmana  tclla  the  story  in  somo  respects  at  greater 
length,  i.  6,  3, 1  ff. :  Trathfur  ha  rai  putt  rat  triiu-thoh  *hod«hhah  i*a\ 
taiga  trtng  sea  muihAng  Attn  tad  gad  ttaArdpah  uta  tat  mud  Viivarip* 
n&ma  \  2.  Tatga  tomapSnam  era  el-am  mulham  Ata  \  turApAnam  eiam  \ 
mngatmai  aiuniiga  tkam  |  tarn  Indra  didtttha  tatga  tAiti  hrthAni  pro- 
ekirhhtJa  |  3.  Sa  gat  tomapAnam  uta  tatah  kapimjalah  tamabkarat  \ 
taamat  ta  babhrnkak  tea  babhntr  ita  hi  tomo  rAjA  |  4.  AtXa  gat  turd- 
pAmm  uta  tatah  kalarinkah  tamab/iarat  |  n  '  bhimAdgatkak  tea  cadati  | 
abhinndtjann  iva  hi  turAtn  pitcd  radati  |  5.  Atha  gad  angatmai  aianAga 
At*  tata*  titiirih  tamahhatat  |  tatmut  ta  viirarilpatatnah  ita  |  tantg  era 
ghritatiohdh  ita  trad  madhtutobik  ira  lent  parvethe  aichutitah  \  trait- 
ripam  hi  ta  Una  aianan  dragat  |  6.  Sa  TeaahfA  ehukrudha  "  kmin  m# 
putram  aradhld"  iti  to  'pendram  ecu  tomam  Ajahre  \  ta  gathA  'yan\ 
umah  pratulah  eram  apendrah  rva  Ata  |  7.  fndrv  ha  mi"  \ktkAnchalrt 

iii.  467  (cwnpsra  A»t.  S'nwU  Solras,  L  4.  9),  the  gal*  bad  fatr  kotri  priasta, 
BhOpati,  Mhnnnnpsli.  Hhntiinimpciti.  nml  HhtiU.  of  whom  the  fint  U>k«  di*-l  fat). 
discharging  umr  doty,  «h«o  th«  fourth  becsnw  afraid  and  fled.  otc.  Vnttmot  Wcbcr 
•owporw  tbo  rtory  about  Agni.  quoted  ab»r«,  p.  2*8,  from  tho  TaiO.  8.  Ob  thr 
ongi»»l  tqudily  u/  tbo  godi  oul  Aeurs*  sec  the  4th  vol.  of  Uib  work.  pp.  51  IT,  aad 
aoto  ti,  p.  10,  aboTt. 


232 


[]  [TS  OP  EMORA  t  iiTui. 


"idam  raimii  midci  antaryanii"  Hi  |  m  yfl/Ad  lahyiin  ahat\</<u*h  i 
anupahutaA  era  ijo  dronakaltit  inkrah  Asa  dm  biakthaydnchaidra  |  i 
enamjihulita  \  tv  'iya  rihaXn  tra  prtknebhyo  dudr&ra  muLh&d  ha  era  an* 
eitha turcebhyo'nyebhyah pr<i**hhy«h  |  8,  &i  2Va#Af<S  ehukrodhd  "iurtdwu 
'uupahAtah  aomam  abhakthad"  iti  |  ta  scayam  era  yaj>%arti,unm  chair*  | 
m  yo  dfonakalaie  iukrak  pariiithfah  Ata  taSt  pracarltayimekakara 
4i  Jndra-ialrur  rardhamra"  iti  ....  |  10.  Atha  yad  abrav\d  Indra-iatmr 
tardlasva"  Hi  tatmild  n  ha  MM  Jndrah  eta  jayh&na  \  atha  yoi  is 
ittifai  atakthml  "  Jndraiya  iatrur  rardhatra  "  iti  iairad  iikiiM 
Iiutram  ahanubyat  |  "Tvashtri  had  a  son  with  three  head*  and  six 
eyes,  who  hud  three  mouths ;  and  hence  was  called  Visvarupa  (Omni- 
form).  2.  One  of  bis  mouths  watt  the  Sonm-drinkcr,  the  second  tho 
Wine-drinker,  and  tho  tliird  was  destined  for  consuming  other  things. 
Indra  hated  tttfa  Vijivmiipa,  and  cut  off  his  three  heads.  3.  Prom  the 
SiMiiii-ilrinker  sprang  a  K&pinjala  (Francoline  partridge);  and  hence 
this  bird  in  brown,  because  king  Soma  is  of  thnt  colour.  4.  From  ths 
\ViiH-. hiul.i  r  sprang  a  Kalarinka  (sparrow);  and  in  consequence  this 
Lit. I  Bttttl  sounds  liko  u  drunkard,  just  as  a  person  docs  who  has  drunk 

5.  From  the  third  mouth  sprang  a  Tittiri  (common  partrid.' 
which  in  consequence  lias  the  greatest  variety  of  colours,  for  drops  of 
ghee  nnd  of  honey  seem  to  bo  sprinkled  in  different  places  on  its  wings: 
l.ir  by  this  mouth  he  (YiAvarupii)  received  such  sorts  of  food.  6. 
T\n.«htri  was  incensed;  and  saying  "  He  has  killed  my  son,"  he  offered 
a  libution  of  soma  to  the  gods,  excluding  I  mini.  7.  Iudrs  perceived 
that  he  was  excluded  from  partaking  the  soma,  nnd  as  a  stronger  acts 
towards  a  weaker  being,  he  without  invitation  drank  off  the  purified 
foina  in  the  vessel.  But  it  uffected  him  injuriously ;  it  issued  from  his 
mouth  and  then  from  all  the  other  outlets  of  his  body.  8.  Tvashtri  was 
KSgry  that  ludra  had  drunk  the  soma  without  invitation;  and  himself 
broke  off  the  sacrifice,  employing  the.  soma  which  was  left  in  the  vessel 
(in  another  rite)  using  thu  formula  'Thou  of  whom  Indra  is  tho  enemy, 
thmrish!'  10.  As  ho  used  the  words  accented  so  as  to  produce  this 
MBM)  i 1 1 > 1 1 : •  irv.  'niiu.  [fad  iii  laid  '  Flourish,  enemy  of  En  Ira,'  ht 
would  have  slain  Indra,  instead  of  ludra  slaying  him." 

The  version  of  the  same  legend  from  the  Kanaka,  12,  10,  in  Indische 
Btudiea,  iii-  464,  gives  some  other  particulars;  Indra  was  afraid 
Viavurupa  was  going  to  become  everything  ("  all  this":  n  Indro  '* 


18! 


SECTION  XV. 

TOE  ASVINS. 


(1)  The  character  and  parentage  of  the  Akine,  thrir  rebtiow  to 
their  attribute*  end  accompaniment*. 

The  Asvins  seem  to  have  been  a  puzrte  evun  to  the  oldest  Indian 
commentators.     Yiska  thus  refers  to  them  in  the  Nirukta.  xa,  I  : 

Atha  ato  itf\uthanah  dnatuh  \  idedm  Aicinau  pratkmm&gaminau 
/•/iiivcitiih  |  Aivinau  yad  vyaintu&te  tart  am  ratena  amyo  jyotUhi  tnyak  I 
"Aivair  usVuWIp"  ity  Anrnahhdrah  ]  tat  kikv  Akinau  |  "  DyGtupritki- 
cyflc  "  ity  eke  \  "  akoratrdv  "  ity  eke  |  "  Sarytiehatuiratwudv  "  ity  eke  \ 
"  n'if'initu  punyakrit&p "  ity  oiti/iaukuh  |  tuyok  k&lah  urddkam  Urih- 
■•I  prakiltlbh&caey*  anuvithkfambham  ann  \  Utmehhftgo  hi  ma- 
dhyamo  jyotirbh&gah  ddityak  |  5.  Tayok  kSlah  rbryedayaparyantai  | 

"  Next  in  order  arc  the  deities  whose  sphere  is  the  heaven;  of  these 
the  Asvins  are  the  first  to  arrive.  They  are  called  A£vios  because 
jwvado  {eyainut&te)  everything,  tlic  one  with  moisture,  tho  other 
vital  light.  Anrnobhiva  says  they  aro  called  Asvins,  from  the  hone* 
(ttirai/i,  on  which  thoy  ride).  Who,  then,  are  these  Asvins?  'Heaven 
and  Earth,'*'  say  some;  '  Day  and  Night,'  say  others;  'The  Sun  and 
Moon,'  any  others  ;  '  Two  kings,  performers  of  holy  acta,'  say  the 
legendary  writers.  Their  time  is  subsequent  to  midnight,  whilst  tho 
manifestation  of  light  is  dcluyed ;  [unil  ends  with  the  rising  of  the 
sun,  ibid.  xii.  5].  Tho  dark  portion  [of  this  time]  denotes  the  ini 
mediate  (god  —  Indie?),  tho  light  portion  Aditw  (the  Sun)." 


: 

■  mi 


W  Compare  8.  P,  Ur.  ir.  1,  0,  18,  AlKa  ymd  "Airinoi"  Hi  rnttiw' 
yritkiri  pralymktkam  oitirfa  |  iW  hi  iciom  tertam  iiimtita-  |  "  Tba  Hoirta  I 

Earth  axe  manifestly  tho  .Wrina,  for  luey  (Qeaica  sad  Earth)  Laro  pcrradsd  evertv 
thing." 

**■  SestheilifriT.'iit  UsspratstloaflrSB  by  Professor  Golds  tiicVer,  at  the  doss  of 
this  Htrtion.  Tho  words  sre  obtcuro. 


CHARACTER  AND  PARENTAGE  OK  THE  AS'VINB,  ETC.         255 

Professor  Roth,  on  Uio  strength  of  this  passage,  considers  that 
Yaska  identifies  tho  two  Asvins  with  ludru  and  too  Sun  (Illustrations 
of  Nirukta,  p.  Io9)."» 

In  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  iv.  425,  the  samo 
author  thus  speaks  of  these  gods :  "  The  two  Asvius,  though,  like  the 
indent  interpreters  of  the  Veda,  we  are  by  no  means  agreed  as  to  the 
conception  of  their  character,  hold,  nevertheless,  a  perfectly  distinct 
position  in  the  entire  body  of  the  Vedic  deities  of  light  They  are  the 
earliest  bringcrs  of  light  in  the  morning  sky,  who  in  their  chariot 
hasten  onward  before  the  dawn,  and  prepare  the  way  for  her."*" 

In  a  passage  of  the  R.V.,  x.  17,  2  (quoted  above  in  tho  section  on 
Trasht,ri,  p.  227),  the  Aivin*  aro  represented  as  the  twin  Bons  of  Vi- 
vmtiI  and  SaranyG.  They  aro  also  called  the  sons  of  the  sky  («Ym 
napita)  in  R.V.  i.  182,  I ;  i.  184,  1 ;"»  x.  61,  4 ;  and  in  i.  46,  2, 
tinihumHtarS,  tho  offspring  of  tho  Ocean  **  (whothcr  aerial  or  terres- 
trial). 

The  Taitt.  8.  rii.  2,  7,  2,  says  that  the  Asrins  are  the  youngest  of 
tha  gods  (ottsMM  tai  dtrdn&m  unujticarau). 

In  i.  180,  2,  tho  sister  of  tho  AsrinB  is  mentioned,  by  whom  tho 

commentator  naturally  understands  TTshai  (tv/urutkcUilyd  irayamifirini 

ni  mthaA).     In  Til  71,  1,  and   elsewhere  (see   above,  p.   188,    191), 

Ushas  is  called  the  sinter  of  Night,  whilst  ia  i.  12.1,  5,  she  is  said 

lister  of  Bhaga  and  Varuijii. 

The  Airina  wo  in  many  port*  of  tho  Rig-vcda  connected  with 
Surya,  the  youthful  daughter  of  the  sun  (called  also  Urjanl  in  ono 


»»  R.V.  L  l&l,  4.  ia,  according  to  Ruib,  quitted  by  Yfaka  in  illustration  of  kit 
Tiew  :  "  Born  here  and  there  thuar  two  havr  atdvan  forward  (r)  with  siioUou  l>«lii  I 
■ccawwiig  to  their  reapectm  cbiracton.  One  of  juu,  ■  conqueror  ud  •  ug«,  [it  the 
mom)  of  tho  atrorg  ono  (f) ;  tho  other  u  bom  onwird,  tho  son  of  tho  sky"  (ikrktjati 
pmmnr-~n*i'<iam  MVfeti  t*f*A  namtbAiA  Hath  |  ji$hnur  tint  fy*h  tte*o*Kety* 
iiw  •**■*£  nAhajalf  pv!r*$  uht).  Compau  Roth'*  tranal.  in  Uluatialiuus  of 
Niruhta.  p.  149. 

—  For  some  speculations  of  Professor  YulUr  und  Welx-r,  on  the  Aium.  see  fh« 
lestiss  of  the  former,  "ind  Knot,  p.  48U  f.,  and  tho  Indiiohe  Siudwm  of  the  Utter, 
««L  v.  p.  234. 

m  lit  181,  4,  only  one  of  tbem  isssid  tobe  ihcsoncf  thoikj.  Sec  note  34>D,  abort. 

***  Oa  this  the  commentator  remarks  that,  although  it  is  the  Sua  md  Moon  thai 
are  sprang  from  lb*  ma,  yet  tho  mm  epithet  applies  equally  to  the  Airina  who,  in 
Ihe  opinion  of  wmc,  are  identical  uita  the  former  (yiufyaot  iuiya-elkmuk*mataf  mm 
mmudrajtu  /«M»/>y  AdrtHC)  ictkiutAil  matt  U4ruyjut.il  Ulltitr-tm). 


236 


CHARACTER  A>*D  PARENTAGE  OF  THE  ASTIXS, 


place,  i.  119,  2,  as  Sayana  understands  it,  turyatya  duhita),"*  who  u 
represented  u*  having,  for  the  sako  of  acquiring  friends,  chosen  then 
for  her  two  husbands,  L  119,  5  (a  rtf«  patitcam  takKyfty*  jaammhl 
yeshu  \rinita  jc/iyu  yuvtim  pati) ;  ir.  43,  6  {tad  A  $hu  vim  ajiraA  ehet* 
i/iltuuTi  ytnapatl  bharathah  Suryiiyah) ;  vii.  69,  3  {ei  riM  ralho  tadhti 
fftitmtU^  o«M»  din  bSdhat4  cayttanibhyam) ;  x.  39,  11,  na  la* 
rGj&n6v  JLdite  kutai  than*  na  omhah  atnoti  duritam  nakir  bhayam  |  yam 
Afrinu  tuhai'6  ntdravarUaHl  ptiroralJiaih  krinuthah  patnyu  $aka  \ 
"  Neither  distress,  nor  calami  ty,  nor  fear  from  any  quarter  assails  the 
man  whom  ye  Asvins,  along  with  [your]  wife,  cause  to  lead  the  van 
in  his  cur ;"  ***  and  as  loving  to  ascend  their  chariot,  i.  34,  5  ;  i.  II 
17;  L  117,  13  (guvo  ratham  dahitd  e&ryasya  saha  iriya  Wasat 
Vp'sifa);  i.  118,  6  («I  v&m  ratham  yuvatit  tithfhad  atra  jmhfti  mora 
duhitS  SOryatya) ;  It.  43,  2  ;  T.  73,  6  (A  yai  rdm  SaryA  raikam 
tidfhai,  etc.);  vi.  C3,  6  f. ;  vii.  68,  3;  vii.  69,  I;  viii.  8,  10  j 
22,  I ;  viii.  29,  8*» 

R.V.  i.  116,  17,  is  OS  follows:  $  ram  ratham  duhitd  riiryatya  klr- 
thmtnutithfhad  areata  jayantl  |  ptfw  dttak  ant  amanyanta  hn'dbhih 
"$am  iriya  Nutatya  sachtihe"  |  "The  daughter  of  the  sun  stood 
upon  your  chariot,  attaining  first  the  goal,  as  if  with  a  race-hens. 
All  the  gods  regarded  this  with  approbation  in  their  hearts  (exclaiming) 
•Yo,  o  Nusatyas,  associate  yourselves  with  good  fortune.'  "  On  this 
gMHgi  Blyagi  ramaxka  u  fidlon  - .  8c*itt  sMuJaAsVarasA  cTwfjfffJatrji 
SomAya  rGjne pradulum  aichhat  |  tarn  Suryum  tarve  dexuk  tarayAm&iuh  | 
U  anyenyam  ichur  "Adityam  acadhim  kritvA  ajim  dMxoma  yo  atm&kam 
ujjcihyati  tatya  iyam  bhavuhyaii"  Hi  |  tatra  Akindo  vdajuyatdm  |  «d 
eha  Sury/l  ji/acatat  (ayah  ratham  Arvroha  |  M  atra  Praj&patir  rai 
tomuya  rfijnt  duhitaram  prayachhad"  ityudikam  brdhmanam  anmtaniht- 
yam  \  "  Kivitri  hod  destined  his  daughter  Suryu  to  be  the  wife  of  king 
Soma.  Bat  all  the  gods  were  anxious  to  obtain  her  bond,  and  resolved 
that  tho  victor  in  a  race  which  they  agreed  to  run,  with  the  son  for 
their  goal,  should  get  her.  She  was  accordingly  won  by  the  A&vias, 
and  ascended  their  chariot."     Saynna  goes  on  to  quote  the  commeace- 


s«»  rrofwBor  Ruth.#.».,  Uk«  tho  word  for  s  persiniflcnticm  of  ir/5,  "  ooarmkmmd," 
*•*  The  oonitnictioii  of  the  words  painyi  mA.j,  "  with  wifo,"  is  not  however  my 
el«nr,  n»  they  m«y  jwrhaj*  r*for  U>  thn  wife  uf  Ui«  wonbipper. 
>"  Seo  sbo  A.V.  ri.  Si,  ^ 


THEIR  RELATIONS  TO  OTHER  DEITIES,  ETC. 


237 


metit  of  tho  rtory,  a*  told  in  tho  Brfihraarja.  Tho  words  agree  with 
those  which  introduce  a  refownco  to  Suryi's  marriage  to  Soma  in  Ait 
Br.  iv.  7,  but  the  story  there  told  (of  whioh  an  abstract  will  be  found 
in  a  note  further  on)  does  not  coincide  with  that  of  which  the  com- 
mentator gives  a  summary. 

Allusion  is  also  mode  to  Suryii  in  connection  with  the  Aavins  in 
x.  8£,  9,  where,  however,  they  no  longer  appear  as  her  husbands, — a 
fact  which  seems  to  involve  a  contradiction  between  the  passages  cited 
above,  and  this:  9.  iSwiw  cadhuyur  alhatat  Aivinu  'i/<Jm  ubhd  vard  | 
Sirytlm  yat  paty«  iamiontim  manata  Stttita  'dad<it  |  M.  Yad  Asrinu 
fsriMtmiimlv  aijutam  triehakrtna  tahitufn  Suryui/uh  \  p«t*  dtvuh  a*n 
tad  ram  aj&twn  put  rah  pitarav  arrinfla  P&tha  |  "  Soma  was  tho 
wooer,  the  Asvins  wore  tho  two  friendB  of  the  bridegroom  ,*♦  when 
Saritri  gave  to  her  husband  Sfiryft,  consenting  in  her  mind.  11,  When 
yo  came,  Asvins,  to  the  marriage  procession  of  SuryA,  to  make  en- 
quiries, all  the  gods  approved,  and  Puslian,'"  aa  a  son,  chose  you 
fur  his  parents." 

daughter  of  the  Sun  is  connected  with  tho  Soma  plant  in  ix.  1, 

[punuli  te  parUrutaSt  somtim  sftryasya  duliiUi  |  "Tho  Daugli! 
San  purifies  thy  distilled  soma,"  etc;   and  in  iz.  113,  3,  she  is 
said  to  hare  brought  it  after  it  had  been  expanded  by  the  rain  ( par- 
janyarridJham  tnahiifium  tarn  turya*y<*  duhilH  "bharat). 

II  wo  look  on  Soma  as  tho  plant  of  that  nnme,  tho  connection 
between  him  and  Suryfi  in  not  very  clear;  but  if  Soma  bo  taken  for 
the  moon,  as  he  evidently  appears  to  be  in  x.  85,  3  ("  When  t  i ..  y 
crush  the  plant,  he  who  drinks  fancies  that  he  has  drunk  Soma,  but 
no  ono  tastes  of  him  whom  tho  priests  know  to  bo  Soma;  ")***  it  is  not 
unnatural,  from  the  relation  of  the  two  luminaries,  that  he  should 
have  been  regarded  as  son-in-law  of  the  sun. 

The  Asvins  arc  described  as  coming  from  nfar,  from  the  sky  or  from 
the  lower  air,  and  are  besought  to  allow  no  other  worshippers  to  stop 


**■  Comport  A.V.  si.  9,  1,  "When  Muiyu  brought  bit  bride  from  tho  hoiac  •; 
Hsnkalps.  who  were  the  fnillSgl USUI'S  friends ? "  etc.  (y*.i  Mmynr  jiifim  •mini 
Sankatpmty  jrpA,m  <•!>»  I  kt  «»*mj*my&t  U  <*rti<k  t**  w  ■Vt,\(Ui*re  •  **•*•/). 

""  Wtbrr  uks  !  Intl.  S.  t.  1*3,  1H7.)  nlicther  POikaa  hero  it  Dot  SMtllt  10  4S*ig- 
nit«  Soma,  tho  bridegroom.  In  \i.  »i,  I,  ilw  gods  are  uiJ  to  h-ivo  given  l'odua  to 
KOryi.     Sen  tbore  p.  179- 

m  S*o  »l  Hit  clc*#  •>!  the  noxt  wcli'ju  «a  8uwin,  wid  W«bcr'»  lad.  Stail.  t.  179. 


338 


CHARACTER  AND  PARENTAGE  OP  TUB  AS'VINS, 


there,  i.  22,  2  (imtpriifi);  i.  44,  5  (fi  no  y/ltaOt  din  achha  prilhityih 
md  cam  atiys  ni  yaman  deuiyanlai)  ;  Tin.  5,  30  (tma  no  nljinlitii 
parxiratai  chid  fijal-am)  ;  riii.  8,  3,  4,  7  (A.  A  no  ytliam  rfi'ra*  jmh 
antarihhut} ;  viii.  9,  2 ;  viii.  1 0,  1  j  viii.  26, 1 7 ;  or  oa  being  in, or  arrir- 
iog  from,  different  unknown  quarters,  whether  above  or  below,  far  or 
near,  and  among  different  races  of  men,  i.  184, 1 ;  r.  73, 1  [yod  odya  ilJuk 
porAioti  yttd  artfirati) ;  t.  74,  10  (*tVi'nd  yad  ha  karhi  thit  inirty«Um 
im«m  heram)  j  vii.  70,  3;  vii.  72,  5  (d  poirhAMd  niiuttyA  &  pur**tiii 
airina  y&tam  adharGd  tidtiMlcit  |  d  rjjpa/itA) ;  viii.  10,  6  (y.*rf  aiyt 
titinSf)  apug  yat  pruk  ttho  rajinlPtulk  \  yad  Dmhyari  Anati  Tkrt*h 
Yadau  Mum  rdm  alha  m&  Agatam);  viii.  (Y2,  8.  Sometimes  the  wor- 
shipper enquires  after  their  locality,  t.  74,  2,  3 ;  xi.  63,  1 ;  riii.  62,  4 
(luAa  tthah  kuha  jagmathuk  kuha  iyenaa  petatkuk).  In  one  plan 
(riii.  8,  St,)  they  are  said  to  hare  three  stations  (trlni pidHni  Ahum 
6rih  tanti  guhil  parah).  The  time  of  their  appearance  is  properly  the 
early  down,  when  they  yoke  their  horses  to  their  car  and  descend  to 
enrth  to  receive  the  adorations  and  offerings  of  their  votaries,  L  22,  1 
(prdtarytyd  ri  bvdhayuhinau)  ;  i.  184,  1 ;  ir.  45,  2;  Tii.  67,  2;  vii. 
69,  6;  vii.  71,  1-8;  viL  72,  4;  vii.  73,  1;  viii.  5,  1,  2;  \iii  ',  17; 
x.  39,  12 ;  X.  40,  1,  3  ;  x.  41,  1,  2 ;  X.  61,  4).  I  cite  a  few  of  these 
texts :  vii.  67,  2.  Aiochi  Agm'h  imidhSno  atm*  upo  adriiran  t*m**oi 
chid  antth  \  achtii  htur  tuhtuhah  purottat  iriye  diet  dukitur  jayttmd- 
nah  |  3.  Abhi  row  no  nam  a&rtw't  tvkoM  stomal  h  tiahakti  nuulyS  tint- 
ttin  |  "Agni,  being  kindled,  has  shone  upon  us;  even  the  remotest 
ends  of  the  <lnrknc*s  have  been  seen;  the  light  in  front  of  Ushas,  lbs 
daughter  of  the  sky,  has  been  pereeiTed,  springing  up  for  the  iHutai- 
nation  (of  all  things).  3.  Now,  Airins,  the  priest  invokes  you  with 
,  his  hymns,"  ftta 

Tiii.  8,  1.  Dilrtid  ihna  yat  sat\  arunapiur  aiisrUot  |  ft"  IkdnwM 
tUtaika  'Innat  |  2.  Xricad  datrd  vnmoyujd  ralktna  prilkvpt)ja*6  | 
tachtlhe  Airmtl  Uthasam  |  ""When  the  rosy-hm-d  D&wa,  though  far 
away,  gleunu  us  if  she  were  near  at  hand,  shu  spreads  the  light  in  all 
directions.  2.  Ye,  wonder-working  Airing,  like  men,  follow  afUr 
U&has  in  your  car  which  is  yoked  by  your  will,  and  shine*  afar." 

viii.  '.',  17.  J'ra  budhaya  Uthok  Akina  |  "  Woke,  0  great  and  divine 
TJftha*,  the  Asvins,"  oto. 

X-  39,  12.-4  itna  yaUik  manato  faviyuu  rat f him  yam  vdm  Rtbkttai 


T1II.IE  RELATIONS  TO  OT1IKR  DEITIES,  ETC. 


239 


thahrur  Aieind  \  yatya  yoge  duhila  j'Syate  Divtik  ubhe  ahatil  itudint 
ftMtM/<j  |  "  Come,  Aeviua,  with  that  oar  swifter  than  thought  which 
the  Ribhus  fashioned  for  you,  ut  tho  yoking  of  which  the  daughter  of 
the  eky  (Ushas)  is  born,  and  day  and  night  become  propitious  to  tho 
■worshipper." 

X.  61, 4.  KritKnii  yad  g<uh'u  (trunUhu  rtdtid  Dito  napSiSe  AM*d  hut* 
tarn  |  "  When  the  dark  [night]  stands  among  tho  tawny  cows  (rays 
of  dawn),  I  invoke  you,  Airing,  sons  of  the  Sky." 

In  L  34,  10,  Savitri  is  said  to  set  their  shining  car  in  motion  before 
the  dawn  (juror  hi  pilrvath  8avit&  uthato  ratham  ritCya  chiirai* 
ghfitatantam  Uhyati). 

In  otber  passages  their  time  is  not  so  well  defined.  Thus,  in  i.  157, 
1,  it  Is  said  :  abodhi  Agnirj'mah  udati  suryo  ei  Uihdi  chaudril  muhl  4vo 
arehUhd  |  ayukihUtdm  aivini  y&tttte  ratham  prSsScld  dtrah  SatiUljagat 
prithak  |  "  Agni  has  awoke ;  the  sun  rises  from  tho  earth  j  the  great 
and  bright  Ushas  has  dawned  with  her  light;  the  Asrins  have  yoked 
their  car  to  go ;  the  divine  Savitri  has  enlivened  every  part  of  tho 
world,"  where  both  the  break  of  dawn  and  tho  appearance  of  the 
Atfvins  appear  to  be  made  simultaneous  with  tho  rising  of  tho  sun. 
The  same  is  the  ease  in  vii.  72,  4 :  e»  eha  id  uchhemti  ahinn  mhotth 
prm  rd«  brakmUni  kftravo  bharante  |  itrdhtam  bhilnuin  Sariift  dm  airtd 
krikad  agnayah  i/tmidha  jaranU  |  "  The  Dawns  break,  Alvins ;  poets 
offer  to  you  prayers ;  the  divine  Savitri  has  assumed  his  lofty  bril- 
liance; fine  crackle  mightily,  (fed  by)  fuel." 

la  v.  7G,  3,  the  Aivins  are  invited  to  come  at  different  times,  at 
morning,  mid-day,  and  sunset  {uta  u  yatam  tangae*  pro  tar  *W  madhy. 
aWi'iw  udita  tHrytiya);  and  in  viii.  22.  14,  it  is  similarly  said  that 
they  arc  invoked  in  tho  evening  as  well  us  at  dnwn.  It  need  not, 
however,  surprise  us  that  they  should  bo  invited  to  attend  the  different 
lunieo  of  the  worshippers,  and  therefore  conceived  to  appear  at 
hours  distinct  from  tho  supposed  natural  periods  of  their  manifestation. 

It  may  seem  unaccountable  that  two  deities  of  a  character  so  litllo 
defined,  and  so  difficult  to  Identify,  as  the  Aarins,  should  bavo  been 
tho  object  of  so  enthusiastic  a  worship  as  appear*  from  the  numerous 
hymns  dedicated  to  them  in  the  R.V.  to  have  been  paid  to  them  iu 
ancient  times.  Tho  reason  may  havo  been  that  they  were  hailed  as 
tin'   precursors  of  returning  day,  after  the  darkness  and  dangers  of 


Mfl 


CHARACTER  AND  PA R FATAH E  OF  TEE  A^ 


■ 
ramjs. 


the  night     In  some  passage*  (viii.  35,  16  ff.)  they  aro  represented 
being,  like  Agni.  the  ehaeen  away  of  evil  spirits  (katam  raUkUm); 
\ii.  73,  4  (rak*kohan&). 

The  AJviDfi  ore  said  to  bo  young,  yurana  (vii.  67,  10),  anriat, 
pratnil  (vi.  62,  5),  beautiful,  valga  (vi.  62,  fl;  vi.  63,  1),  hones 
madhurttrm\  (viii.  26,  6),  lords  of  lustre',  sw&fcu  pntl  (viii.  9 
x.  93,  6),  bright,  iubhrd  (vii.  68,  1),  of  a  golden  brillianoy,  him 
]Hi<u<i  (viii.  8,  2),  agile,  nriU,  (vi.  63,  6),  fleet  as  thought,  tnamjmuA 
(viii.  22,  16)  swift  as  young  falcons,  iyeruuya  ohij  jacaiu  nitttnuma 
H  yachlmtam  (v.  78,  4),  possessing  many  forms,  pari  rarpdaui  Jfrina 
isdhanu  (i.  117,  9),  wearing  lotus  garlands,  pu*hkara*raj&  (x.  184, 
2,  and  A.V.  iii.  22,  4,  Kitop.  Br.  if.  1,  5,  16),  strong,  a*fcrd  (x. 
24,  4),  mighty,  p-  ;<•  (vi.  62,  5),  terrible,  rWrd  (v.  75,  3; 

x.  93,  7),  pos80*.«cd  of  wondrous  power*,  wiym/l  or  mAyntind  (vi.  63, 
6;  x.  24,  4),  and  profound  in  wisdom,  gcmbh\raeketat&  (viii.  8,  2). 
They  ruah  onward  excitedly,  madachytUa1"  (viii.  22,  16 ;  viii.  35, 18), 
and  traverse  a  golden,  hirnnyarartMl,  or  terrible,  rudrarnriaiH,  path 
(v.  75,  3;  viii.  5,  11  ;  viii.  8,  1 ;  viii.  22,  I,  14;  X.  39,  11)» 

The  car,  golden,   or  sunlike,  in  all  its  various  parts  and   a; 
Utiunccs,  wheels,  fillies,  arte,  pole,  reins,  etc.,  i.  180,  I  [hinmyayak 
tCtm  parayak) ;  iv.  44,  4,  5  (Jtiragyaytma  rathttui) ;  v.  77,  3  {hiranyat 
ralhah);   viii.  5,  26,  29,  35  (ratha/li  hiraityavandhHrait  hiranyul 
Aicind  |  a  hi  Mat  ho  ditinpriiam  |   29.  hirattyayl  viim  rabhir  Uhd 
kiranyayak  \   ubha  ckukrtt  hiranynyu);  viii.  8,  2  {ralktna  i\lryatc*cki) ; 
viii.  22,  9,  on  which  they  ride,  flying  as  on  bird's  wingt,  L  183,  1 
(yrnopayrUhah  evkrito  ilvrvnm'n  trulkiit*n&  pittUho  fir  ««i  parnaik),  wa» 
formed  by  the  llibhus,  x.  39,  12  (see  above,  p.  238),  and  is  singular  ia 
its  formation,    being  three-wheeled   {trichakra),  and    triple   in  noma 

*•*  Profc»nr  Roth,  *.r.,  rtadsn  thiiepitbet  by  "moving  in  exeluaut,"  si< 
Profe»or  Mnl  of  K.V  i.  p.  118,  tr»iwl»t«  it,  whoa  sppliod  to  Iadra,fai* 

hone*,  or  the  A«'u:.v  -iv  nr  wildly  mnrinj:  nltonl." 

*">  Two  epithets  very  or.mmonly  applied  to  them  we  &tr&  and  namlj/a. 
fi.rmcr  term  i»  explained  by  Siy»i>*  to  tignify  drctrnyen  of  emmim.  or  of 
(not*  ■■■>  i    ",  3),  or  Iwautiful  (on  riti.  75,  1).    Proft-tsor  R-Mh,  :r  .  understands  i 
signify  wonJor-wnrkcr*.     The  second  word,  »Hmtyi,  i*  rt<iranl«d  hy  s 
M  of  the  BtymolttriflB  given  by  Yft»k»  (vL  13),  »  c|ui»»Wnt  to  m 
iltbaMOM,  i  might  m  well  Ii»tc  been  aicd.  In  the  later  Ulmtsr* 

Dnsra  and  K antra  «ero  reganUd  as  the  separate  name*  of  the  two  Aavbis.  St* 
Mullet's  Lecture*,  2od  »ri«s  p.  4fll. 


W*yak 

■JMAmI 


THBIR  RELATIONS  TO  OTHER  DEITIES.  ETC.  34 1 

otLer  part*  of  it*  construction,  it-  fiM'u-s,  support*,  etc  (iricr't  f  (riran- 
dkura  I  tray  ah  parnyah  |  trayah  thambhlsah  tkdbhil&iah  ilmJ/itf),*"  i.  34, 
2,  9 ;  i.  47,  2  j  i.  1 18, 1,  2  ;  i.  157,  3 ;  -vii.  71.  4  ;  viii.  74,  8 ;  x.  41,  1. 
This  car  moves  lightly  (raghuearttani),  viii.  9,  8,  and  is  swifter  ihun 
thought  {manano  jorlydn  ralltah),  i.  II",  2;  i.  118,  1 ;  v.  77,  3  ;  vi.  63, 
7  ;  x.  39,  12,  or  than  the  twinkling  of  an  eye  {nimiihai  chij  javlytud 
rathata),  viii.  02, 2.  It  it  decked  with  a  thousand  ornaments  and  banners 
{tahatra-M*,  tahotra-ntmij),  i.  119,  1 ;  viii.  8,  11,  H,  and  has  golden 
reins,  viii.  22, 6.  It  is  sometimes  said  to  be  drawn  by  a  single  ass,  as  the 
word  r<i.\.tbham  i*,  in  one  piece  at  least,  i.  34,  9,  expressly  explained 
by  the  commentator  (aii<uthdnlyati/a  gardalha*ya),v'  i.  34,  9  ;  i.  1 16,  2  ; 
▼iti.  74,  7 ;  but  more  frequently  by  birds,  or  bird-like,  fleet-winged, 
golden-winged,  falcon-like,  swon-liko  horses,  i.  46,  3  (yud  turn  ralke 
nbhith  ptxl.it);  i.  117,  2  (raihah  »vahah)  ;  L  118,  4  (d  rdw  iytnuto 
akina  rahantu  rathe  yukMto  aiavah  patangiib)  ;  L  180,  1  (iuyamdmh 
miwih);  i.  181,  2  (d  riSm  tsrfaah  hehayah  ....  naantw);  ir.  46,  4 
{AamtiM  yo  vam  madhumanto  atridho  htranyaparndh);  v.  74,  9;  v.  75, 
S    [rilhii   Cbyfiranam  Aivini  »»  yuthah);    vi.   63,  6,  7  (d   v&St  tayak 


rl  The  word  rWAaro  is  variously  explained  by  &iy»o»  ss  n^iUiUkmnridkar*. 
Mutam  (on  i.  34.  9),  wnfatanalarupa.6audJkan:iaMk(kam  (mi  i.  4T.  •),  twiAfatfaa* 
Anikth  nAamtm  (o»  i.  118,  1),  tartlAya/myt^tMitmm  (on  i.  167,  3),  airaMy- 
mJkukfkaiti-rtk  '.■  n iim  (on  vii.  71,  4),  and  IriraiflkurA  u  ItipkaUkTmaHgia^ltna  («■ 
tHL  7*,  ")•  Th«  epithet  would  thus  mean  tithor  (1)  having  three  porpcndlcejUr 
piecca  of  wood,  oc  (2)  hsring  a  triple  standing  plane  or  scat  fur  tlio  charioteer.  In 
L  34,  2,  lb*  cbsriat  u  laid  to  hare  lliree  props  filed  in  it  to  lay  bold  ut  ' 
itamBAamt  iMhitatab  vwbhi),  which  tbe  eommpnutor  says  wars  mount  to  iccuro 
the  ridev  agi iin»t  the  fear  of  falling  when  the  chariot  was  moving  rapidly.  This  ex. 
pbrunoa  would  coincide  with  on*  of  tho  senses  assigned  to  wtuikHm.  la  i.  i  si,  3, 
their  chariot  is  called  fipra-wnJhMrah,  which,  according  to  the  commentator,  is  • 
tuirnft-puroiAagalt,  "baring  a  wide  fore-part." 

*•*  See  tbe  legend  in  the  Aiureys  Brahmins,  p.  370-273  of  Dr.  Hang's  trans- 
lation. It  it  titers  related,  it.  7-0,  that  at  the  nurrisge  of  Soma  and  Sflryi.  the 
god*  raa  a  race  to  doterraino  to  which  of  them  tho  as'vina  I'astrn  should  belong.  Tho 
Xiriai  gained  it.  though  some  other  deities  gained  a  (hire.  Agui  run  tho  rac*  in  a 
car,  draws  by  mulca  (aJr*t*rl-ral Wa  jlyniriijin  WAon'),  Vthat  in  one  drawn  by 
ruddy  ball*  (jnAW  amait'r  I'lkHk  Sjim  atlkat+t),  Indra  in  one  drawn  by  bora** 
(iitatolktma  !mdmk  Sjim  oikatnt),  while  the  As'v ina  carried  orT  tb«  prise  in  a  oar 
drawn  by  sases  {frtUbkn -Talk/no  Attina  mSaja^attm).  Compare  K.V.  t.  116,  J, 
where  tha  ass  is  aaid  to  hate  won. 

*"  Prof.  Baafey  in  a  not*  on  L  110,  2,  while  agresing  is  this  aaaae,  refers  also  to 
iiL  S3,  5.  where  as  well  a»  in  viii.  74,  3,  Sayaiia  uplaina  tbe  word  a*  awaniag  a 
nrijrhing  or  aaortiag  bone 

16 


HI 


charactkk  and  r  ;k  of  tiik  astixs. 


aiflte  vah'skfhilh  abki  prayo  natatyfl  vafmtiu) ;  vii.  69,  7  ;  viii.  5,  7, 
22,  33,  35  (tQyarh  iynubhir  fiiubhik  \  yCtam  atnbkir  AivinA  |  jtd 
ran  ml/to  vibhith  patdt  \  &  ika  rim  prutfiilaptaro  cayo  rshantu  pcr*i~ 
nai  |  dratatpiinihhir  a&vaih);  x.  143,  5.  They  cany  *  honied  whip 
{laid  madhuma(l),  i.  122,  3;  i.  157,  4,*"  and  their  car  traverses  the 
region*  ( pra  rath  ratho  mamjanih  iyartti  tint  rajiirui),  viL  63,  3. 

Asvina  aro  Fancifully  represented  in  i.  34,  1  IF.  aa  doing,  or  u 
being  requested  to  do,  a  variety  of  acta  thrice  over,  vis.  to  move  thrice 
by  night  and  thrice  by  day,  (vena  2)  to  bestow  nourishment  thrice  at 
even  and  at  dawn,  (vcr*c  3)  to  bestow  wealth  Utfj  •• ,  ;_  verso  5)  to  atd 
the  devotions  of  tho  wor&l  ippers  thrice,  (ibid.)  to  bestow  celestial 
medicaments  thrioe,  and  earthly  thrice  (verao  6),  etc. 

Tiny  nro  elsewhere  (ii.  39,  1  ff.)  compared  to  different  twin  objects; 
to  two  vultures  on  a  tree,  to  two  priests  reciting  hymn*  (verse  1),  to 
two  goats,  to  two  beautiful  women  (mtnt  ira  tamA  tumbhawuiiu),  to 
hiixliiuid  and  wife  (verse  2),  to  two  ducks,  chahratOJtA  (verse  3), 
to  two  ships  whirh  transport  men,  to  two  protecting  do^*  (vers*  4), 
to  two  eyes,  two  hands,  two  feet  (reree  6),  to  two  sweetly-speaking 
lips,  two  breasts  yielding  nourishment,  two  nostrils,  two  cuts  (verae  6\ 
to  two  swan*,  two  falcons,  two  deer,  two  buffaloes,  two  wings  of  one 
bird  (idkamyvja  sakunatijera  pafuha),  etc.,  etc.,  T.  78,  1-3;  viii.  35, 
7-9 ;  x.  106,  2  ff. 

They  aro  tho  guardians  of  tho  alow  and  the  hindmost,  and  of  the 
female  who  is  growing  old  unmarried ;  they  aro  physician  a'*  and  rcatort 
the  blind,  the  lame,  the  emaciated,  and  the  sick,  to  sight,  power  of 
locomotion,  health,  and  strength,  i.  34,  6;  i,  116,  16;  i.  157,  6;  viii. 
9,  6,  15;  viii.  18,  8;  wiii.  22,  10;  viii.  7«,  I  ;  x  39,  3,  5  (amajmnt 
eh  id  bhacatho  yutan  bhayo  anaioi  chid  aeitara  apamesya  chit  |  i\itdhatyt 
chit  niliatyil  Iriiiuya  chid  yuv&m  id  ufiur  bhUkaju  ruttuya  Ml) ; 
x.  40,  8.  Sec  also  A.V.  vii.  53,  1,  where  it  is  said  that  the  A.<vin» 
aro  tho  physicians  of  the  gods,  and  worded  off  death  from  the 


**»  See  below  the  «rrtion  on  tht  "progros*  of  the  Yodic  religion,  ete."    India  has 
B  golden  whip.  viii.  33,  11. 

>"  In  Tiuit.  Br.  iii.  1,  2,  1),  tho  Airinsnr*  cnllsd  the  phyiicun*  of  th*  gnit.  u* 
iii-irrn  of  obUttAni,  the  mecuDger*  of  the  universe,  tho  gumrdiwta  of  isimotulitr 
(pm  deiSimm  bbu/fj'in  ktrftriktm  rur««y«  Mtdv  anril—jra  jnpau);  imd  in  tlwt 
and  the  preceding  paragraph  (10)  tbpy  sro  connected  with  their  oiru  astcrian  | 
**a<ro),  the  Jufrayoji 


THEIR  RELATIONS  TO  OTHER  DEITIES.  ETC. 


218 


shipper  (praiyauhatHm  aitinS  mrilyum  atmad  devdndm  Agn*  bhithaj* 
UcMbhh). 

Tiny  ploco  the  product! vo  germ  in  all  creatures,  and  generate  fire, 
■water  and  tree*,  i.  157,  5  (yutom  ha  garbham  jiigatUhu  dhaliho  yuroi* 
tik**kt  bhtic*ne*h*  anlah  |  yuctm  Agniih  cha  trithanav  apaS  cha  ranas- 
pat'm  aiein&e  airayelAdm).  They  are  connected  with  marriage,  prc- 
cmition,  and  love,  z.  184,  2  (-  A.T.  v.  25,  3:  garbkat*  U  chimm 
aWdP  &  dkalMm  puahkarcuroju) ;  x.  85,  26  (<aJpr'«J  ted  prarahatdm 
rmthma  |  gfihan  gachha  grihapatn}  yatka  'tab);  A.V.  ii.  SO,  2  (un 
then  nmydtho  aitina  knmind  tatri  cha  vaLihat/uiA  |  "  When,  ye,  Aivins, 
bring  together  two  lovers,"  ete.);  vi.  102,  1 ;  xiv.  1,  35  f. ;  xiv.  2,  5. 
8ee  Weber's  Indischc  Studicn  t.  218,  227,  231. 


(2)  Legend*  regarding  various  person*  delitertd  crfaxoured  by  the 

ttUin 


The  following  arc  a  few  of  the  modes  in  which  the  ditine  power  of 
the  As'vina  is  declared  in  dilfrrent  hymns  to  have  been  manifested  for 
the  deliverance  of  their  votaries. 

When  the  sago  Chyavfma  hud  grown  old,  and  had  been  forsaken, 
they  divested  him  of  his  decrepit  body,  prolonged  his  life,  and  restored 
him  to  youth,  making  him  acceptable  to  his  wife,  and  the  husband  of 
maidens,  i.  1 1 G,  10  [jujurutho  niiMlyn  via  ctvrim  prdmunekataii*  <•'. 
ira  Chyatiitiat  |  prdtiratam  jakitat-yfiyur  da*rd  6d  it  patim  akrigutam 
kaH\ndm)  ;  i.  117,  13  {yurant  Chyatanam  Aitina  jarantam  putter  ymi- 
natu  thakrathuh  tnchibkih);  I  118,  6;  v.  74,  &  (pra  Ckyaidmdj  juju- 
rvtko  varrim  aria  A  no,  munchnlhnh  |  yuvd  yodi  krilhoh  punar  a  ktimam 
p'mtitadhMk);  vii.  68,  6;  vii.  71,  5 ;  x.  39,  4. 

This  legend  is  related  at  length  in  the  Sstapatha  Brahman*  in  a 
passage  which  will  he  cited  further  on. 

In  the  someway  they  renewed  the  youth  of  Kali*"  after  he  had 
grown  old,  x.  39,  8  (ysram  viprasya  jarandm  upeymhah  pvnah  Kahr 
tljinuiam  yucad  layah);  compare  i.  112,  15,  where  they  arc  said  to 
have  befriended  him  after  he  had  married  a  wife  ( Kalxti*  y&bhir  vitia- 
jumth  dmatyathah). 

'  '  T1i«  Umiljr  of  the  Kali*  i»  mcutionod,  riiL  JC>,  li. 


LEGENDS  REGARDIXO  VARIOUS  TERSOXS 


Thoy  brought  on  a  car  to  too  youthful  Yitnada*"  a  briile  Baaed 
XamadyO,  who  teems  to  bare  been  the  beautiful  wife  of  Purnmitra,  L 
112,  19  (j/Abhih  ptitnlr  Vimaiaya  nythatkuh  |  here  wires  axe  man- 
tioncd  in  the  plural) ;  i.  116,  1  {yti  arbhaguya  Vimaduya  Jdydm  tinH- 
juvS  nybhalvh)  ;  z.  65,  12  (Kamadyuram  Yimtidilya  aha.'huh) ;  i.  117, 
20  (yucaih  incKlbhir  Vim&dQya  jdy&fit  ni  ahathuh  Puntmitratya  yotkam); 
x.  89,  7  (yueam  rathma  Vimad&ya  iundhyuivA  hi  Ahalhuk  Pnrw* 
miVfYiM  yothaatim).  SayuTja,  on  i.  117,  20,  makes  yot/tAm  =  ktmirtm, 
by  which  he  appears  to  intend  tho  daughter  of  Purumitra,  who  ho 
says  was  a  king.     But  yotla  seems  more  frequently  to  denote  a  wife. 

They  restored  Viahnapu,  like  a  lost  animal,  to  the  right  of  Viiraka, 
aon  of  Krishna,  their  worshipper,  who,  according  to  the  commentator, 
was  his  father,  i.  116,  23  (acatyat*  ttuvaie  krithniydya  pjuyaU  ndtatj* 
6aeh\bhih    \    paiuiii   na   |  fed  darianiiya   VtthnSpctA  imdatktr 

VihakCtya);  i.  117,  7;  x.  65,  12. 

The  names  both  of  Yi*vaka  and  Viahyapu  occur  in  B..V.  riii.  7 
1-3,  a  hymn  addressed  to  the  Asvins;  and  the  commentator  (as  on* 
explanation  of  the  passage)  connects  the  reference  there  made  to  the 
former  with  the  legend  before  ua  (on  which,  however,  the  hymn  itself 
throws  no  light). 

Another  act  recorded  of  the  Asvins  is  their  intervention  in  favour  of 
Bhnjyu,  the  aon  of  Tugra,  which  is  obscurely  described  in  the  follow- 
ing verses  in  II.  V.  i.  116,  3  ft.  (Tuyro  ha  Bhujynm  Jitiita  udamtfh 
na  kaichit  maniriran  arakah  |  Urn  iihathur  navbkir  Stmantatllhir 
antarik\hoprui!bhir  epofakalhih  \  4.  Titrah  bhapti  trir  aha  etirr*- 
jadbhi/  ttuKitya  lihujyvm  Ghathuh  patavgaih  \  tarwdratya  dhantanm 
Ardttwjn  pur*  Iribhik  rnlhaih  iatapadbhih  thalairaih  |  5.  Au/lrambhafi 
tad  arlrayelkam  an/ldhan»  cgrabhant  lamvdrt  |  yai  otrind  ihttthur 
fihujyum  attam  int'iriir&iii  naram  atatthit&wmm  |  "Tugni  abandoned 
Bhujya  in  the  water-cloud,  as  any  dead  man  leaves  his  property.  Ye, 
Asvins,  bore  him  in  animated  water-tight  ships,  which  traversed  the 
aii .  \.  Three  nights  and  three  days  did  ye  convey  him  in  three  flying 
cars,  with  n  hundred  feet  and  six  horses,  which  crossed  over  to  the  dry 
land  beyond  tho  liquid  occoo.  5.  Yc  put  forth  your  vigour  in  the 
ocean,  which  offers  do  stay,  or  standing-place,  or  support,  when  yc 

*"  A  r'M  nf  th'u  mmr  i»  mmtioncd,  R.V.  viiL  9,  15 ;  x.  20,  10 ;  x.  43,  7 ;  and  a 
timily  of  VunaJju  in  I.  23,  8. 


■r 


DELIVERED  OR  FAVOURED  BY  THE  ASTI.VS. 


215 


bore  Bhujyu  to  his  home,  standing  on  a  ship  propelled  by  b  hundred 
Mrs."  E.V.  L  117,  11  f.  (yueam  Bhujytun  arna*o  nib  wmudrad  ribhir 
Aktikmr  fijrebkir  aitaik  |  15.  Ajohacli  aSvind  Tauyryo  cam  proihak 
tanutiram  aryathir  jaganvSn  |  ninh  (an\  uhalhuh  suyujd  rathena  mamjs- 
r«wd  cruband  tuuti  |  "  Ye  conveyed  Dhujyu  out  of  the  liquid  ocean 
•with  your  heudloog  flying  horses.  16.  The  son  of  Tugra  invoked  you, 
Aavins.  Borne  forward,  ho  moved  without  distress  over  the  sea.  Ye 
brought  him  out  with  your  well-yoked  chariot  strife  as  thought.*' 
Again  in  L  182,  5  ff.  it  is  said  :  yueam  elafh  ehakrathuh  liudbuihu 
platam  titnumvantam  pakthinath  Taugryuya  kam  |  6.  Aeariddbaih  Taug- 
ryeat  apt*  antar  anurambhaut  tanati  praviddham  |  chutasro  naTo/s/fo- 
huya  juihfAh  nd  ahibJigilm  ithiluh  p&rayanti  |  7.  Kah  nid  trtitho 
nubfhito  madhyo  arrttoo  yaih  Tauyryo  nodhitah  paryaakvajat  \  parnft 
mrigatya  pataror  icdrabhe  ud  akitui  ukaf.buk  iromatAya  kam  |  "  Ye 
(AsVius)  made  this  animated,  winged,  boat  for  the  son  of  Tugra  among 
tho  waters  ....  6.  Four  ships, "*  eagerly  desired,  impelled  by  the 
AirioB,  convey  to  the  shore  Tugra,  who  had  been  plunged  in  the 
waters,  and  sunk  iu  bottomless  darkness.  7.  What  was  that  log, 
placed  in  tho  midst  of  the  watcs,  which,  in  his  straits,  the  eon  of 
Tugra  embraced,  as  tho  winps  of  a  flying  creature,  for  support  ?  "  lu 
vii.  68,  7,  Bhujyu  is  said  to  have  been  abandoned  by  his  his  malevo- 
lent companions  in  tho  middle  of  the  sea  (vts  tyam  Bhujyum  Afoinu 
takbdyo  modkyt  jakur  dvrtriisab  samudra).  The  story  is  also  alluded  to 
in  i.  112,  6,  20;  i.  118,  6;  L  119,  4;  L  158,  S;  vi  62,  6;  vii.  69, 
7  ;  \iii.  5,  82 ;  x.  39,  4;  x.  40,  7  ;  x.  6.',,  12 ;  x.  1  18,  ■>. 

Again,  when  Viipala's  leg  hud  boon  cut  off  in  buttle,  like  the  wing 
of  a  bird,  the  Asvins  arc  said  to  have  given  her  an  iron  one  instead, 
KV  i.  US,  10;  i.  116,  16  (ehariirttm  U  r«r  ieOchhtdi  pcrnam  a/a 
Khrftxtya  paritakmydytlin  |  ladyo  junyhdm  iiyaiim  Viipaliyai  dhant  kite 
tarUun  praty  adkattam);  i.  117,  11 ;  i.  118,  8;  x.  39,  8."» 

They  restored  sight  to  Rijr&sva,  who  had  been  made  blind  by  his 
cruel  lather,  for  slaughtering  one  hundred  and  one  sheep,  and  giving 
them  to  u  she-wolf  to  eat,  the  she-wolf  having  supplicated  tho  Asvins 
on  behalf  of  her  blind  benefactor,  u  116,  16;  i.  117,  17  L  [salam 
mtkA*   vrikyt   mim*kanam   tamab  pranSUnt  aiittna  pitrd   |  u  «t#Al 

m*  Tho  kbk  of>f  Wa  is  set  eloar. 

■**  Compare  the  word  tiifmlanuu  in  R.V,  i.  182,  I, 


246 


LEGENDS  REGARDING  VARIOUS  FERSOXS 


ryr&it*  aivindr  edhtttaih  jyt>U'r  andhdya  thtkrathvr  riehoktht  |  18. 
S'uttam  andhdya  hharam  ahtayat  it  triklr  ahind  "  trithand  tutra  "  iH\ 
Mf  tea  ehakthadanah  Ifijruitok  iataw  tiath  «■*<•  m*iids>).  A 
person  called  KijraSva  ia  mentioned  with  others  in  i.  IOO,  17,  m 
praising  Indra. 

They  restored  Paruvrij  (or  an  outcast),  who  was  blind  and  lame,  U> 
night  and  tho  power  of  walling,  i.  112,  8  (ytibhih  iarMihir  rrulami 
ParAvrijam  pra  andhaiii  ironaih  chahhasi  ttavt  Irithah).     Parf> 
connected  with  Indra  in  ii.  13,  12,  and  ii.  1$,  7. 

The  rishi  llcbha  has  been  hidden  by  tho  malignant,  bound,  over- 
wliilnied  in  tho  waters  (a  well,  according  to  tho  commentator,)  for 
Blgbtl  and  nino  days,  and  abandoned  till  he  was  nearly,  if  net 
entirely,  dead.  Tho  Asnns  drew  him  up  as  soma-juioo  is  raised 
with  n  ladlo,  i.  112,  6  {ySbhlh  Ribham  nirritam  titam  adbhyah  «J 
Vandanam  airayatnm  tear  dfii*) ;  i.  116,  24  {data  riirtr  atitena  inks' 
-/,.>i  tu-anaddfititit  inathitam  aptu  aniah  \  tiprutaft  Rebham  vdam '  pr*- 
ffftUm  un  ninyalhuh  antrum  ita  irut*na  |  Comparo  L  1 17,  12) ;  i.  117, 
4  (aitMh  na  gillham  AttimA  dumair  rixhim  fiord  rrithamS  Rtbham  apm 
taffi  aafit  ri'nUha  viprtitafa  daihsobhih) ;  i.  118,  6;  i.  119,  G;  x.  39,  9 
NR  ha  Rebhaih  vjithanA  ynhd  hiliim  ud  airayatam  mamptdtum 
Aivind). 

Vandana  also  was  delivered  by  them  from  some  calamity,  tho  natura 
of  which  does  not  Tory  clearly  appear  from  most  of  the  text*,  and 
restored  to  the  light  of  the  bod,  i.  112,  5  ;  i.  116,  11  ;  L  117,  5; 
i.  118,  6.  In  x.  3D,  8,  they  are  said  to  hare  raised  him  out  of  a  pit*" 
(yuvaiT)  I'andanam  riiyadtii  "^  Opa/huA).  According  to  i.  119,  6,  7, 
however,  he  would  uppeur  to  huvc  been  restored  from  decrepitude,  as  a 
chariot  is  repaired  by  an  nrtizan  {pra  dlrghena  Vandana*  turi  tiytuki  | 
7.  Yucafii  Vamfanam  nirritain  jumnyayd  rathaih  na  darrd  intrant  ttvmtt- 
tathak). 

So,  too,  the  AjvinB  bestowed  wisdom  on  their  worshipper  Eakshlrat, 
of  tho  family  of  1'ajra ;  and  performed  tho  notable  miracle  of  causing 
a  hundred  jars  of  wine  and  honied  liquor  to  dow  forth  from  the  hoof  of 
their  horse  as  from  a  sieve,  i.  110,  7  (Yuvam  Hard  tiucatt  Pajriydya 
hikihltatt  aradatam  purandhim   |  kurolarul  lapkad  airaiya  rruAjj* 

**°  Th*  word  fuyada  is  cxplsintu  by  Messrs  Bohllingk  and  Roth,  t.t.,  as  a  pit 

or  Miario;  ft 


i 


DELIVERED  OR  FAVOURED  BV  THE  AffVLNS. 


•J  1 7 


iota*  kumiham  MinekataA  iwHyGk) ;  i-  117,6  (Imd  turn  nara  id. 
Pajriytna  kahhlcaiii  tuUalyd  parijman  |  tiiphutl  asvaaya  vljino  janOya 
iatafh  tumihUn  atittchatam  madkdn&m). 

When  invoked  by  the  populnr  sage  Atri  Suptuvailhri,  who,  with  hie 
companions,  hud  been  plunged  by  tho  malieo  aud  arts  of  evil  spirite 
into  a  gloomy  and  burning  abyss,*1  they  speedily  came  to  his  assist- 
ance, mitigated  tho  heat  with  cold,  and  supplied  him  with  out; 
•o  that  his  situation  became  tolerable,  if  not  agreeable,  till  they 
eventually  extricated  him  from  his  perilous-  position,  i.  112,  7 ;  i.  116, 
8  {kwnm*~ym'm  yhramnom  avfirayelMm  pitumatlm  Qrjam  atmai  adattam  | 
rib'u*  Atrim  ahinll  ,van\tam  unniayalkuh  Morrayana)'*  naiti) ;  i.  1 1 7,  3 
(ritki*  nar&v  atkhatah  pdnckajanyam  riblsad  atrim  munchalho  yanrna  | 
miimaM  datyor  aHvatya  miiyilh);  i.  I  in,  7  ;  i.  1 19,  6;  v.  78,  4-C 
(Atrtr  yad  rdr*  avarohann  rihUam  qjohavld  nddham&ntc*  yoi/iJ  J 
iytnatya  chij  jatatS  nHUmena  Hyachhalam  ait-inn  iantametui) ;  vii.  71, 
5  ;  riii.  62,  3,  7-9  ;  x.  30,  9  (yutam  ribUam  Mia  taptam  Alrayt  oman- 
vantaih  chakrathuk  Saptavadkray*).  In  z.  80,  3,  tho  deliverance  of 
Atri  ie  ascribed  to  Agni  (Aynir  Airiih  ykarme  unukyad  an/ak). 

They  listened  to  the  invocation  of  the  wise  Vadhriimitl,  and  gave 
her  a  son  called  Iliranynhueta,  i.  116,  13;  i.  117,  24  {iriranyaJuu- 
taot  Akind  rardnd  putram  itari  Vadhrimatyai  adattam);  vi.  62,  7; 
x.  39,  7. 

They  gave  a  hatband  to  Qhosha  when  she  was  growing  old  in  her 
father's  house,  i.  117,  7  {Gkoih/iyai  ekil  pitriikade  durcne  patim  jury- 
amtyai  efrinde  adallam) ;  x.  39,  3,  6 ;  x.  40,  5  ;  and,  according  to  tho 
commentator  on  i.  117,  7,  cured  her  of  tho  leprosy  with  which  she  had 
been  afflicted. 

They  caused  the  cow  of  8"aju,  which  had  left  off  bearing,  to  yield 
milk,  i.  1 10,  23  ;  i.  117,  20  (adkenHth  daira  ttaryam  nthaUUm  apt*- 
ra tan  iayaxt  Akinfi  yam) ;  i.  118,  8  ;  i.  119,  6  ;  x.  39,  13. 

11:>  y  gave  to  Pedu  o  strong,  swift,  white  horse,  animated  by  Indra, 
ami  of  incomparable  Indra-liko  prowess,  which  overcome  all  Ins 
enemies,  and  conquered  for  him  unbounded  spoils,  i.  1 16,  6 ;  i.  1 17,  9 
(pvra  rarp&jmi  Afrina  dadk&nH  ni  Pedtx*  uhath.Hr  uhtm  adtam  | 
Mtkturatdm  *6ji**m  fratttsm  ahthana*  srwewyoA  tarvtnm);  i.  118, 

"'  Bt»  Profotsor  RoUY«  explanation  of  lh«  words  riKm  uaa  yXarwtf,  :—>.,  sad 
Vt*  illaUrUions  of  Nirakta,  lit  3«. 


248       CONNECTION  OF  THE  ASTINS  WITH  OTHER  DEITTJM. 


9  (yuvaiii  ietlam  Ptdavfi  Indrajitam  ahihanam  Airinil  'lUttam  *h*m) ; 
i.  119,  10  {lndram  Am  ehanhaniaaham) ;  vii.  71,  5;  x.  39,  10. 

Finully,  to  say  nothing  of  the  succours  rendered  to  numerous  other 
persons  (i.  112,  110,  117,  118,  119,)  the  Air  ins  did  not  contino  their 
benevolence  to  human  beings,  but  are  also  celebrated  as  having 
rescued  from  the  jaws  of  a  wolf  a  quail  by  which  they  were  inroked 
(i.  116,  14;  i.  117,  16;  i.  118,  8;  x.  39,  13  (i-i-iAmpa  chid  tartikim 
antar  aeydd  yuvath  iachibhir  yrtuilclm  amunchatom). 

The  deliverances  of  Itcbha,  Yandana,  Paravrij,  Bhujyu,  fhyarans, 
and  cithers  are  explained  by  Profesaor  Benfey  (following  Dr.  Kuhn 
Professor  Midler),  in  tin:  notes  to  his  translations  of  the  hymns  ia 
which  they  arc  mentioned,  as  referring  to  certain  physical  phenomena 
with  which  the  AsVias  aro  supposed  by  these  scholars  to  be  connected. 
But  this  allegorical  method  of  interpretation  seeais  unlikely  to  bo 
correct,  as  it  is  difficult  to  suppose  that  tbc  phenomena  in  question 
should  liavo  been  alluded  to  under  such  a  variety  of  names  and  circum- 
stances. It  appears,  therefore,  to  bo  more  probable  that  the  riahis 
iiurrly  refer  to  certain  legends  which  were  popularly  current  of  inter- 
ventions of  the  Asrius  in  behalf  of  the  persons  whose  name*  are  men- 
tioned. The  word  Paravrij  (in  i.  112,  8),  which  ia  taken  by  the 
commentator  for  a  proper  name,  and  ia  explained  by  P: 
M  tiller"*  and  Benfey  us  the  n-tuming,  or  the  setting,  sun,  is 
preted  by  Professor  Roth  in  his  Lexicon,  i.e.,  as  an  outcast. 


(3)  Connection  of  the  Aiviiu  tcith  olktr  deititM. 


In  viii.  26,  8,  the  Aivins  ore  invoked  along  with  Indra  (J 
fiasa(yii),  with  whom  they  are  also  connected  in  x.  73,  4,  and  on 
whose  car  they  arc  in  ono  place  said  to  ride,  while  at  other  times  thoy 
accompany  Vayu,  or  the  Adityas,  or  the  Bibhus,  or  participate  in  the 
strides  of  Vishnu,  viii.  9,  12  {yad Indrena  tarathaih  yutho  Akinu  fid 
ru  Vdyund  bhaoathah  lamoLisH  |  yad  Aditytbhxr  Ribhubhir  yes?  t& 
Viehnor  vikramanethu  tvth(haihah).  In  i.  162,  2,  they  arc  said  to 
possess  strongly  the  qualities  of  Iudrn  (IndratamQ)  and  of  the  Morale 


***  Lectures  on  Language,  tecoad  series,  p.  612. 


RELATIONS  OF  THE  ASTINS  TO  THEIR  WOBSWITEBS.     249 

(.Varurfciwrt).  In  x.  131,  4,  5,  they  are  described  as  assisting  Indra 
in  hia  cooflict  with  the  Asura  Numuchi  (sec  bIotc,  p.  A3  f.,  note),  and 
as  vigorous  slayers  of  Vrittra,  or  of  enemies,  vrilrahantamA.  (viii  ;•>, 
22).  They  are  eagerly  loageil  for  (?)  by  the  other  gods  when  they 
urrive,  x.  2-1,  5  [tiin  dcvUk  akfipandt  tamlchyor  nithpatantyok). 


(4)  Relation*  of  tkt  Aivin*  to  thiir  tconhipptrt. 


Tho  Airing  are  worshipped  with  uplifted  hands,  vi.  03,  3  (uttdna- 
ksuto  yucayur  vavanda),  nnd  supplicated  for  a  variety  of  blessings,  for 
long  life  and  deliverance  from  calamities,  i.  157,  -l  (prayut  turiskfan 
nik  rap<\m*i  mrik»katatn) ;  for  offspring,  wealth,  victory,  destruction  of 
enemies,  preservation  of  tho  worshippers  themselves,  of  their  house* 
and  cattle,  rii.  67,  6;  viii.  8,  13,  15,  17;  viii.  9,  11,  13;  riii.  2G,  7; 
85)  10  ff.  They  are  exhorted  to  overwhelm  and  destroy  the 
niggard  who  ofl'ere  no  oblatiouB,  and  to  create  light  for  the  wise  man 
who  praised  them,  i.  182,  3  (Aim  alia  daird  krinuthah  kirn  Oxuth*  jnno 
yah  kaitkid  akavir  tnah\yato  \  ati  kramiiklaAjuralam  paner  amihjyolir 
■ja  krinutaijt  cachasyavt). 

No  calamity  or  alarm  from  any  quarter  can  touch  tho  man  whose 
chariot  they  place  in  the  van,  x.  39,  1 1  "a  (mi  tarn  riijAnGc  adit*  knlai- 
ckana  na  arnko  ainoti  durittun  nakir  bkayam  |  yam  akinCL  ntkaul  rudra- 
rwrfdnl  puroratham  irinulliak  patny<l  taha).  The  rinlii  addresses  tbem 
as  a  eon  his  parents,  vii.  67,  1  (s&nur  na  pitaru  virakmi).  In  x.  39,  6, 
a  female  suppliant,  who  represents  herself  as  friendless  and  destitute, 
calls  on  them  to  treat  her  as  parents  do  their  children,  and  rescue  ha 
from  her  mUfortunee  (iyam  r««  akia  innuta*  bm  Ahinu  putrnyra 
pititri'i  makt/am  iikJuxtam  \  anapir  ajna  atajutyu  amatik  para  ttuyuh 
abkiuulrr  ava  ipriUm).  In  another  pluee,  viii.  B8,  II,  they  seem  to 
be  reproached  with  being  as  tardy  as  two  old  men  to  respond  to  tho 
summons  of  their  worshipper  [kirn  idoSt  ram  purdnntaj  /orator  in 
iotyot*  |  "  Why  is  this  praise  addressed  to  you  ok  if  you  were  old  men 
and  worn  out  ■  ").     In  vii.  72,  2,  the  rishi  represents  himself  as  having 

M  Compare  the  reqastt  preferred  to  Indra  to  shag  forward  toe  <hanot  of  his 
wonbippt*  from  tic  rear  to  tbc  front  (viii.  60,  4  f.). 


250 


LEGEND  OF  CHYAYANA  AND  TnE  AS 


hereditary  claims  on  their  consideration,  and  a  common  bond  of  anion" 
r  hi  nah  mkhyu  pitryiini  tamtino  handhur  uta  tatya  rittam). 
The  Asviim  ore  described  as  being,  like  the  other  god*,  fond  of 
somu-juiec  (iii.  58,  7,  9;   iv.  46,  1,  »;   viii.  h,  6;    viii.  .5.1,  7-9) 
arc  invited  to  drink  it  with  Ushas  and  Surya,  riii.  35,  1  ff. 


(a)  Lrgend  of  Chyarana  and  the  Air  in*,  actor  dixy  to  thi  S'atapatha 
Jirahmana  and  the  Mahulrhurata. 

The  following  version  of  tlio  legend  relating  to  the  cure  of  Chj»" 
vana  by  the  A«vins  (to  which  idlusion  is  made  in  tho  passage  of  the 
Jt.V.  quoted  above)  is  fouud  in  the  Sutapatha  Brahmana,  iv.  1,  5,  1  ff.: 

t.  Yaffil  rat  Ilhrtgato  rd  Angiratc  r<«  tvargam  kkam  wmSimmaU  Ut 
Chyara.no  vu  Bhurgatai  Chyataua  ca  Angiratai  Ui4*wjirnih  krilydrUpt 
fahe  |  2.  Sai  iii'ita  ha  vat  idam  Miinavo  grumina  ehaehura   |  m  tad  *** 
prntirtio    niwtiit  |   tatya  htmiirfih    kridantah   imaik  /Irji'ifc   irityari- 
pam    anarlhyam    manyamSnuh    loshfair  cipipithuh    |    3.    Sa   Sdrydte- 
hht/a*  rhukriidha   \   tthhyo  'muijniim  chahlra  pita  *va  putrrna  yayudht 
Ihrnlt'i  bhrutra  |  4.  Saryato  ha  lishdnrhakr*  yat  "kin  akarata  ta»mii 
idam  tipadi"  iti  |  ta  gop&ldfhi  cha  avipaltimi  eha  tamhrayitarai  ncAeha  | 
fi.  Sa  ha  ueAcha  "ho  to  adya  iha  kinchid  adrtilsliid"  iti  |  U  ha  ithmk 
" purmhah  era  ayum  j'irnih   krtlyArupah  iete  \  lam  anarihyam  many* 
rnSmlh  kumHrdhi  ivi/ifair  cyapikehann"   iti  |  ta  tidAnchakura  "#•  tai 
Chyacanah,"  Hi  |   6.  Sa  ralham  yvktvS  SukanyUm  S&ry&tlm  mpudhCya 
prmiehyanda    |    ea  CjagSma  yatra   rithir   <Ua   Ut   \   7.  Sa  ha  wthh* 
"  fi»he  nomas  U  |  yan  na  accduham  ttna  a-hinuuham  |  iyam  SukanyH  J 
tm/"   t«  apahnute  \   lanjSnitut*  mi  grimah  "  id  |  taiya  ha  talah  laa 
grama  k-  tenjajtu  \  sa  ka  talah  eaa  Sarydto  MAnatah  vdynyuj*  "  na  id 
aparaiii  hinat&ni"  iti  |   8.  Aixinau  ha  nui  idum  hhivhajyantau  cheratuk  | 
tau  Sukany&m  upeyatuh    \  ttuyAm  milhunam  ishutt  |  tan  na  jajmau  |  9. 
Tau  ha  iuhnUik   "  'Sukanye  ham  imafh  jlrnitk  krityardpam  upaiatht  | 
OvUm  anuprthi"   Hi  |  *u  ha  utacha  " yatmai  mam  pitu  addi  na  tau 


144  The  common :.\fc.r  «pliin«  thli  ot  *  common  anrKtrj  by  «yin;.  in  M«orAWa 
with  liter  Umlitivii,  tliitt  VirMvat  and  V  imnn  wax  botb  »pn»  of  EWf*p»  ic  i 
(mil  ihit  Yirnrrat  ni  thu  hfha  uf  tlic  AaNint.  whilu  Yaruua  wm  fattm  n"  Yu- 
Ubtha,  tho  ruhi  ut'  the  hymn.    Sec  the  lit  volumo  of  tbit  wwk,  pp.  328  f..  noto  Ui. 


ACCOBDIXG  TO  THE  8'ATATATLU  BBAOMA^A,  ETC.         251 


jlrantam  kdtydmi"  Hi  |  tad  ha  ayam  rithir  djajnau  |    10.  Sa  ha  utQrha 
"  Sukany*  kim  ttA  *(ad  aroehatdn  "  iti  i  tamai  ttai  tySthathakthe  |  m 
Ad  rydkhydtah  urdeha  "  yadi  Ud  ttai  pumtr  brwatah  Mi  ttam  brutdi 
'  ma  rai  nuarrdv  ira  ttho  ma  tutamriddhde  ira  at  ha  mt  patim  nindathak* 
iti   |    tan   yadi  trd   brucatah   '  kftut   dram    atartau   trah   Lena    aiam- 
riddhdv'  iti  |  «I  (ram  bratdt  'patiih  mm  ma  pmar  ywdnam  imruUim 
atha   cSm   tahhydmi'  iti"   |  tarn  punar   uptyatut   tdm   ha   ttai  en* 
vthatuh  \  11.  Sd  ha  mileha  "na  rai  mtiaru'tv  iia  ttho  m  ttuamriidhdp 
tern  atha  me  patiih  mndathnh"  iti  \  tau  ha  tichatuh  "  k«na  dvam  atarvau 
tcaA  kema   asamrtddhdv"   iti  |   tfi   ha   utdcJut   "patiih   mt   ma  punar 
ftttAnam  kurutam  atha  vdih  vakthydmi"  iti  |  12.  Tau  ha  uchatur  "ttam 
kradam  abhyavahara  \  sa  yena  vayiud  kamithyaU  Una  udaithyati''  iti  | 
tarn  hradam  abhyarajahdra  |  ta  yena  rayata  rhakama  Una  udtydya  |    13. 
Tan  ha  ichatuh  "  Hukanyt  ktna  dram  atartau  tvah  k<ma  atamriddhuv  " 
iti  |  tau  ha  rithir  tva  pratytttdtha  *'  kurukthatre  ami  derdk  yajnam 
tanvatt  |   U  rdm  yajnad  ontaryanti  \  Una  atarvau   tthat  Una  atam- 
rutdhde"   Hi  |   tau  ha  taldh   tea  Airinau  prtyatuk  |    tor  djtigmatvr 
dtvun  yajnaik    tanvundn   Hutu   bahithparamunt    |     14.    Tau  ha   uehatur 
"  upa  mm  kvayadhcam"  iti  |  ta  ha   devil  k  iichur   "na  rdm  upahea- 
fi*hydmahe  \  bahu  manuthynhu  taiiitrithtam  achdrishfam  bhithajijnntdc" 
iti  |    15.  Tau  ha  Urkatur  risfrehgd  rai  yajnma  yajadhtt"  iti  |  "  kofhan 
tii\r*1ind "   Hi    \   ' '  upa  tutu   htayadhvam   atha  vo  raktkydtah "   iti   | 
"  tatkd"  iti  |  to  updhtayanta  tdbhydm  ttam  divinam  graham  ayrihmamt 
tSv  adhcaryu    yajmtya    ahharatiim   |   tor  ttad  yajtuuya  iirah  pratya- 
dhattdm  | 

"When  the  lihrigus  or  the  AngiroMis  had  reached  Uio  heavenly 
world,  Chynvsna  of  the  race  of  Uhrigu,  or  Chyarana  of  the  race  of 
Aa^irne,  haring  magically  a»ume<l  u  shrivelled  form,  was  abandoned, 
ra,  the  descendant  of  Manu,  wandered  over  tliia  [world]  with  his 
tribe.  Ho  settled  down  in  the  neighbourhood  [of  Chyavana],  Ilia  youths, 
while  playing,  fancied  this  shrivelled  magical  body  to  be  worthiest, 
and  pounded  it  with  clod*.  Chyavnna  was  incensed  at  the  sons  of 
Skryata.  He  created  discord  among  them,  so  that  father  fought  with 
son,  and  brother  with  brother.  SaryAta  bethought  him,  '  what  have  I 
done,  in  consequence  of  which  this  calamity  has  befallen  us?'  Ha 
ordered  the  cowherds  und  shepherds  to  be  called,  and  said,  '  Whiih  of 
you  has  seen  anything  hero  to-day  ? '     They  replied,  '  This  shrivelled 


252  LEGEND  OP  CHYAVANA  AXTJ  THE  ASAIXS, 

magical  body  which  lies  there  is  >  man.  Fancying  it  ms  something 
worthless,  the  youths  pounded  it  with  clods.'  Suryata  knew  then  that 
it  wa*  Chyavana.  He  yoked  his  chariot,  and  taking  his  daughter 
Sukunyu,  drove,  off,  and  arrived  at  the  place  where  the  rishi  was.  He 
said, '  Reverence  to  thee,  rislii ;  I  injured  thee  because  I  did  not  know. 
Thii  in  Sukanya,  with  her  I  appease  thee.  Let  my  tribe  be  reconciled.' 
His  tribe  was  in  consequence  reconciled ;  and  Suryata  of  the  race  of  Manu 
departed  thence  "lest,"  said  he,  " I  might  do  him  some  other  injury." 
Now  the  A  s'vins  used  to  wander  over  this  world,  porfonning  cares.  They 
approached  Sukanya,  and  wished  to  seduce  her ;  but  she  would  not 
consent.  They  said  to  her,  '  Sukanya,  what  shrivelled  magical  body 
is  this  by  which  thou  liest?  follow  ua.'  Sho  replied,  'I  will  set 
abandon,  while  he  lives,  tho  man  to  whom  my  father  gave  me.'  Tkt 
data  became  aware  of  this.  lie  said,  '  Sukanya,  what  was  thia  that 
they  said  to  thee?'  She  told  it  to  him.  When  informed,  he  said, 
'  If  they  address  thee  thus  again,  say  to  them,  '  Yc  are  neither  com- 
plete nor  perfect,  and  yet  yo  speak  contemptuously  of  my  husband ! ' 
and  if  they  ask,  '  In  what  respect  are  we  incomplete  and  imperfect? ' 
theu  reply,  'Make  my  husband  young  again,  and  I  will  tell  you.' 
Acoirdingly  they  euiuo  again  to  her,  and  said  the  same  thing 
answered,  "  Ye  are  neither  complete  nor  perfect,  and  yet  ye  talk 
contemptuously  of  my  husband ! '  They  enquired,  *  In  what  respect 
are  wo  incomplete  and  imperfect?*  She  rejoined,  'Make  my  husband 
young  again,  and  I  will  tell  you.'  Thoy  replied,  '  Take  him  to  thii 
pond,  and  he  shall  come  forth  with  any  age  which  he  shall  desire.' 
She  took  him  to  the  pond,  and  he  enmo  forth  with  the  age  that  he 
desired.  The  Asvins  then  asked,  ■  Sukanya,  in  what  respect  are  we 
incomplete  and  |||||JIH  Hint  ? '  To  thia  the  rishi  replied,  '  The  other  gods 
ate  a  sacrifice  in  Kurukshetra,  and  exclude  you  two  from  it 
That  is  the  respect  in  which  ye  arc  incomplru  »r.d  imperfect.1  The 
Asvins  then  departed  and  came  to  the  gods  who  were  celebrating  a 
sacrifice,  when  tho  Buhishpavamano ""  text  had  been  recited.  They 
said,  '  Invite  ua  to  join  you.'  The  gods  replied,  '  Wo  will  not  invite 
you,  for  yo  havo  wandered  about  very  familiarly  among  men,*"  per- 

>*  8m  lime's  Ait.  Br.  ii.  p.  120,  not*  13. 

*•  la  :ui  M.th:-bbireU.  S'antip.  t.  TSH'j  f.  it  ii  uid  that  the  Asviss  are  lb* 
8  <Ulm  i\  tti  god-,  the  Antrum  being  the  Brahmsm,  the  Adityn»  the  KiUetrina, 


ACCORDING  TO  TOE  ffATAPATilA  ■MHIfAfA,  ETC.        253 

fanning  com*.'  The  Asvins  rejoined,  "Ye  worship  with  a  headless 
sacrifice.'  They  asked,  •  How  [do  *e  worship]  with  a  headless 
[sacrifice]?'  The  Agvins  answered,  'Invite  us  to  join  you,  und  we 
will  tell  you  '  The  gods  consented,  nnil  invited  lliera.  They  received 
this  Aivina  draught  (graha)  for  the  Asvins,  who  became  the  two  ndh- 
varyu  priests  ^  of  the  sacrifices,  and  restored  the  head  of  the  m£> 
flee."  Ab  regards  the  cutting  off  of  (be.  Ih-.-hI  of  the  sacrifice  sec  the 
passages  quoted  in  the  4th  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  109  ff. 

Tin   TaittirSya  Sanhita  ri.  4,  9,  1,  gives  tho  following  brief  D 
of  the  story  of  the  Asvins  replacing  the  head  of  the  sacrifice,  with  un 
addition  not  found  in  tho  Sutap.  Br. : 

Yajnatya  Uro'thhidyata  |  U  devuh  aivinap  abruean  "bhithajau  rat 
ithah  |  idnA  yaj***ya  iirah  pratidbaltam  "  Hi  \  fdt  obrutCfn  "  rarafft 
vrtautahai  grahuh  na  nAo  atrupi  yfihyatdtn"  iti  |  tabby  am  ttam 
Asrinam  ayrihnan  |  Uto  vai  (an  yajntuya  iirah  pralyadbaltam  \  yaddfeino 
gfihyot*  yajiui»ya  aithkrityai  tau  dttHh  abruvann  "  aputau  ras  imau 
manuthyacharau  bhishajtir"  itt  \  tatrafti  brdhmantna  bhtthojaim  na  kfir- 
yam  |  aputo  by  uho  'mtdbyo  yo  bhithai  |  tau  baiiUhpacama*<nu  pact- 
yttrd  labhytim  ttam  tXitinam  ayfihnan  J 

"The  head  of  tho  sacrifice  was  out  off.  The  gods  said  to  tho 
Asvins,  •  You  ore  physicians ;  replace  thin  head  of  the  sacrifice.'  The 
Asvins  npliciL  '  Let  us  ask  a  favour  a  allow  u  libation  for  us  also  to  be 
received  in  this  ceremony.'  They,  in  consequence,  received  for  them 
this  Asvina  oblation,  whoa  they  replaced  the  head  of  the  sacrifice. 
"When  this  Asvina  libation  had  been  received  for  the  sake  of  rectifying 
tho  sacrifice,  the  gods  said  of  the  Asrins,  '  These  two  are  unclean, 
going  among  men  as  they  do,  as  physicians.'  Hence,  no  Brahman 
must  act  as  a  physician,  since  a  person  bo  acting  is  unclean  and  unfit  to 
sacrifice.  They  purified  the  Asvina  by  the  Bohishpavamana ;  and  then 
received  fur  them  the  Asvina  libation."  Compare  tie  Ait.  Br.  i.  1 8, 
pp.  41  ff.  of  Professor  flaug's  translation. 

A  story,  varying  in  some  particulars,  is  narrated  in  the  Mahabhorata, 


and  tfe<i  M units  ttir  Vaitras.  With  tho  objection  suds  against  th*  Airins  of  too 
great  familiarity  with  mortals,  compare  the  oomuroua  inatances  of  b«Ip  rcadstsd  so 
tlicif  worshippers,  which  hsT*  bacn  qaeted  short  from  tho  B.V.,  sod  wnica  ssaj  hata 
given  rise  to  this  idea. 

™  Comisw  8.P.  Br.  riiL  2,  I,  J. 


254 


LEOZXD  OP  CIITAVA.VA  AXD  THE  ASTI.V3. 


Vanajtarva,  1 0,3 1 C  if.  The  original  text  is  too  lengthy  to  be  cited 
shall  giro  iU  substance.  We  are  there  told  that  the  bod j-  of  Cbyaraaa, 
when  performing  austerity  in  a  certain  place,  became  encrusted  wftk 
an  ant-hill ;  that  king  Suryuti  came  then  to  the  spot  with  hi*  4000 
wives  and  his  Bin  pi©  daughter  Sukanya;  that  the  riahi,  seeing  her, 
became  enamoured  of  her  and  endeavoured  to  gain  hor  affections,  bat 
without  eliciting  from  ber  any  reply.  Seeing,  however,  the  sage's 
eyes  gleaming  out  from  the  iint-hill,  and  not  knowing  what  they  wet*, 
the  princess  pierced  them  with  a  sharp  instrument,  whereupon  Cbj*- 
vana  became  incensed,  and  afllictcd  the  king's  army  with  a  stoppage  of 
urine  and  of  the  other  necessary  function.  When  the  king  found  out 
the  cause  of  the  infliction,  and  supplicated  the  riahi  for  its  removal, 
thu  hitter  iuBistcd  on  receiving  the  king's  daughter  to  wife,  as  the  sols 
condition  of  his  forgiveness.  Suknnyn  accordingly  lived  with  the  rithi 
as  his  spouse.  One  day,  however,  she  was  seen  by  the  Asvins,  who 
endeavoured,  but  without  effect,  to  persuade  her  to  desert  her  decrepit 
husband,  and  choose  oao  of  them  in  his  place.  They  then  told  her 
they  were  the  physicians  of  tho  god*,  and  would  restore  her  husband 
to  youth  and  beauty,  when  she  could  make  her  choice  between  him 
and  one  of  them.  Chyovnna  and  his  wife  consented  to  this  proposal; 
and,  at  tho  suggestion  of  tho  Asvins,  ho  entered  with  them  into 
neighbouring  pond,  when  the  tbrco  came  forth  of  like  celestial  beauty, 
and  each  asked  hor  to  be  his  bride.  She,  however,  recognized 
chose  her  own  husband.  Cbyarana,  in  gratitude  for  his  restoration  to 
youth,  then  offered  to  compel  Indra  to  admit  the  Asvins  to  a  partici- 
pation in  the  Soma  ceremonial,  and  fulfilled  his  promise  in  tho  course 
of  a  sacrifice  which  he  performed  for  king  Kurynti.  On  thai  ocoasioa 
Indra  objected  to  such  an  honour  being  extended  to  tho  Asvins,  on  the 
ground  that  they  wandered  about  among  men  as  physicians,  changing 
their  forms  at  will ;  but  Chyavana  refused  to  listen  to  the  objection, 
and  carried  out  his  intention,  staying  tho  arm  of  Indra  when  he  was 
ubout  to  launch  a  thunderbolt,  and  creating  a  terrific  demon,  who  was 
on  tho  point  of  devouring  the  king  of  tho  gods,  and  was  only  pre- 
vented by  tho  timely  submission  of  the  latter."" 


I 


*■»  8*e  tbe  similar  Recount  of  Cbyvnuu'i  power  in  th«  ptangt  from  th* 
parrs  qootoi  is  tho  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  second  edition,  p.  470  f. 


HEMAUKS  BY  PROFESSOR  GOI.DSTUCKKU. 


ISi 


(6)  Rimarka  an  the  Ait  in*  by  Preftutr  Gold*tAektr. 

I  have  been  favoured  by  Professor  Goldstiickcr  with  tbo  following 
note  on  tbo  AsVirm  : — 

The  myth  of  tho  As'tira  is,  in  my  opinion,  ono  of  that  olnaa  of 
myths  in  which  two  distinct  elements,  the  oosmicol  and  tho  human  or 
historical,  have  gradually  become  blended  into  one.  It  seems  necessary, 
therefore,  to  separate  these  two  elements  iu  order  to  arrive  at  an 
understanding  of  tho  myth.  The  historical  or  human  clement  in  it,  I 
believe,  is  represented  by  those  legends  which  refer  to  the  wonderful 
cares  effected  by  the  A  {vine,  and  to  their  performances  of  a  kindred 
sort;  the  cosmicol  element  is  that  relating  to  their  luminous  nature. 
The  link  which  connects  both  seems  to  bo  the  my»tcrionsnese  of  the 
uu'.urc  and  effects  of  the  phenomena  of  light,  and  of  the  healing  art  at 
a  remote  antiquity.  That  there  might  have  been  some  horsemen  or 
warrior*  of  grout  renown  who  inspired  their  contemporaries  with  uwe 
ir  wonderful  deeds,  and  more  especially  by  their  medical  skill, 
appears  to  have  been  also  tho  opinion  of  some  old  commentators  men- 
tioned by  Yiiska,  for  some  "legendary  writers,"  he  says,  took  them  for 
"two  kings,  performers  of  holy  acts;"  and  this  view  seams  likewise 
borne  out  by  the  legend  in  which  it  is  narrated  that  the  gods  refused 
the  Aitrins  admittance  to  a  sacrifice  on  the  ground  that  they  had  been 
on  too  familiar  terms  with  men.  It  would  appear  then  that  these 
Airing,  like  the  llibhus,  were  originally  renowned  mortals,  who,  in  tho 
course  of  time,  were  translated  into  the  companionship  of  tho  gods; 
and  it  may  be  a  matter  of  importance  to  investigate  whether,  besides 
this  a  priori  view,  there  are  further  grounds  ef  a  linguistic  or  gram- 
matical  character  for  assuming  that  the  hymns  containing  the  legends 
relating  to  these  human  Asvins  are  posterior  or  otherwise  to  those 
descriptive  of  the  eosmical  gods  of  the  same  name. 

The  luminous  character  of  the  latter  can  scarcely  be  matter  of  doubt, 
for  the  view  of  some  commentators — recorded  by  Taska, — according  to 
which  they  were  identified  with  "heaven  and  earth,"  appears  not  to 
be  countenanced  by  any  of  the  passages  known  to  us.  Their  very 
name,  it  would  seem,  settles  this  point,  since  usVa,  tho  horse,  literally, 
"  tho  pcrvader,"  is  always  the  symbol  of  the  luminous  deities,  espe- 
cially of  the  sua.  The  difficulty,  however,  is  to  determine  their  position 


sea 


EEMARK8  ON  TIIV.  AST1NS 


amongst  these  deities  and  to  harmonize  with  it  the  other  myths  oo». 
nectcil  with  litem.  I  may  here,  however,  first  observe  that,  though 
Y&ska  records  opinions  which  identify  the  Asrin*  with  "day  and 
night,"  and  "sun  and  BOOB,*1  tin;  passage  relied  upon  by  Professor 
K»tli  to  prove  that  Yusku  hints-elf  identified  them  with  Imlra  and 
Aditya  (the  sun),  dues  not  bear  out  any  such  conclusion.  For  the 
passage  in  question,  as  I  understand  it,  means;  "their  time  is  after 
the  (latter)  half  of  the  night  when  the  (space's)  becoming  light  is 
resisted  (by  darkness);  for  tho  middlemost  Atria  (between  ^ftrin*n 
and  light)  shares  in  darkness,  whilst  (tho  other),  who  is  of  a  solar 
nature  (uditp),  shares  in  light."  There  is  this  verse  relating  to  them: 
"  In  nights,"'  "♦  etc.  Nor  does  Durga,  tho  commentator  oa  Yi'uia, 
attribute  to  the  latter  the  view  which  Professor  Roth  •scribes  to  bin. 
His  words,  as  I  interpret  them,  are  :  •*'  their  time  is  after  tho  (latter) 
half  of  tho  night  when  the  (space's)  becoming  light  is  resisted,' 
(means)  when,  after  the  (latter)  half  of  the  night,  darkness  intersected 
by  light  mokes  an  effort  against  light,  that  is  the  time  of  the  Alvias. 
....  Then  the  nature  of  the  middlemost  (between  them)  is  a  share  in 
that  darknesss  which  penetrates  into  light ;  and  the  solar  one  (aditya) 
assumes  that  nature  which  is  a  share  in  the  light  penetrating  into 
durknen&B.  These  two  are  the  middlemost  and  tho  uppermost :  tlui  fa 
the  teacher's  {i.e.  Y&ska' »)  uwn  opinion,  for,  in  order  to  substantiate 
it,  ho  gives  aa  an  instance  the  verse  '  Y«*&tithu  tma,' "  *°  etc 

*•»  Kir.  xii.  I,  layoh  kola}  urdkwitm  itnibanilrat  prnir>j1bko**tydmiriikt*mkbm 
anil  (the  liut  word  U  omitt.d  in  Dings  MS.  I.O.  L-,  No.  -'(Ni)  fnuAhagt  ki  wmdk- 
yame  jyoHrd/iiii/a  tiilitifih\  layarttka  bkutali  Vuiatuhu  m.  tic. 

*"  Durga  I.O.  L.,  No.  208:  Tayvtf  kilti  irjktttm  oriharntral  fn-*t>uHkS*m*y,nm 
r\$h(«mb/uim  |  jyuluha  ryalMtJyamanan  urdhtam  ardharatrat  lama  y+da  jytir 
a»u  ruhfobhnati  to  'ivinuh  kalah  |  [latak  prabkfili  »c*fMi«/«frit«  >i»eJayoaT 
bfrtnam,  udilr  touryiini]  |  (BfM  yl  tamo  'nmiiAfam  (the  MS.  of  Prufceeor  BfiiUer, 
Loot.  2nd  series,  p.  100,  reads  '«uprarith\<tm)  jyttuki  tadtoifo  wudkymmaiyt 
rupem  (tho  MS.  of  Pn>f.  M.  ibid. :  Udbh'iyo  madkyanak  \  Inn  madkyam trya 
riftim)  :  yoj  jyolii  tmmaty  SMMtUfasI  (tli<?  mine,  ibu:  •*/««)  tadbkiftm 

tmdrupam  wiityxh  |  fiir  ttin  madkyamollamSf  ill  iromaltun  lukarynrya  |  yat*t 
mmirthanayodiihaiali  tayor  aha  bhavnti  Vamlithu  imrti.  Professor  Both,  in  hit 
fflustratious  of  Niniliw,  lii.  1,  very  correctly  obterm  that  the  reus  quoted  kt 
Yasks  (roM(i«Au  tma,  etc.)  don  not  boar  out  tho  view  that  the  Airiat  are  Indra  iaj 
AditTa ;  but  tli»  proper  inforonc*  to  be  drown  from  thii  circanutsaeo  woold  seem  »e 
be,  not  tb»t  Y  J«lta  quoted  a  verse  irrelevant  to  hie  ricvr,  but  that  Professor  Both 
attiiljuted  to  him  e  riow  which  hu  hail  not  cntertaiuul,  and  that  it  mar  be  pre  treble 
to  reader  Aditra,  ae  proposed  above,  "the  wtsr  (Asrin},' '  or  the  Asrin  of  s  solar  naUre. 


BY  PROFESSOR  COI.DSTITKKIL 


257 


To  judge,  therefore,  from  these  words,  it  is  the  opinion  of  Yiaka 
that  the  Asvins  represent  the  transition  from  darkness  to  light,  when 
the  intermingling  of  both  produces  that  inseparable  duality  expressed 
by  the  twin  nature  of  these  deities.  And  this  interpretation,  I  hold, 
is  tho  best  that  can  ba  given  of  the  character  of  the  totmieal  AsVins. 
It  agrees  with  the  epithets  by  which  they  are  invoked,  and  with  the 
relationship  in  which  they  are  placed.  They  are  young,  yet  also 
ancient,  beautiful,  bright,  swift,  etc  ;  and  their  negative  character — 
the  result  of  tho  alliance  of  lifht  with  darkness — is,  I  better*,  ex- 
pressed by  dasra,  the  destroyer,  uud  also  by  tho  two  negatives  in  tho 
compound  nutatya  (na  +  a-iatya),  though  their  positive,  character  is 
again  redeemed  by  the  ellipsis  of  "  ouemies,  or  diseases,"  to  dura,  and 
by  tho  sense  of  natalya,  not  un-true,  r.«.  truthful.  They  are  the 
parents  of  Pushan,  tho  sun  ;  for  they  precede  the  riso  of  tho  sun ; 
they  are  the  sons  of  tho  sky,  and  again  tho  sons  of  Vivaavat  and 
Sarnnyii.  Vivasrat,  I  believe,  here  bttpUasl  the  firmament  "expand- 
ing" to  the  sight  through  the  approaching  light;  uud  though  Saranyu 
is  to  Professor  Muller  ono  of  tho  deities  which  are  forced  by  him  to 
support  his  dawn-theory,  it  seems  to  me  that  iho  etymology  of  tho 
word,  and  the  character  of  the  myths  relating  to  it,  rather  point  to 
the  moving  air,  or  the  dark  and  cool  air,  heated,  and  therefore  set  in 
motion,  by  the  approach  of  the  rising  sun.  The  A-svina  arc  also  the 
husbands  or  the  friends  of  Siiryii,  whom  I  take  fur  (he  reprasH 
of  the  weakest  manifestation  of  the  sun ;  and  I  bettors  that  Suyarja  is 
right  when,  by  the  sister  of  the  Asvins,  he  understands  TJsliaa,  the 
dawn.  The  mysterious  phenomenon  of  the  intermingling  ol  darkness 
— which  is  no  longer  complcto  night — and  of  light — which  is  not  yet 
dawn — seems  to  agroc  with  all  the*e  conceptions,  and  with  tho  further 
details  of  a  cosmicol  nature,  which  ura  so  fully  given  in  tho  preceding 
paper. 


M 


tea 


hirhtho 
l  far  hit 
igemesi 


SECTION    XVI. 

SOMA. 

Reference  has  been  already  nude  to  the  important  share  which 
exhilarating  juice  of  the  soma-plant  assumes  in  bracing  Indxa 
conflict  with  the  hostile  powers  in  the  atmosphere,  and  to  the  > 
of  all  the  god*  to  partake  in  this  beverage. 

Soma  i*  the  god  who  represents  and  animates  this  juice,  an  intoxi- 
cating drought  which  plays  a  conspicuous  part  in  the  merifieea  of  the 
Vedic  age.  lie  is,  or  rather  was  in  former  time*,  the  Indian  Dionysus  or 
Bacchus.  Not  only  are  the  whole  of  the  hymns  in  the  ninth  book  of  i)m 
Big-rede,  one  hundred  and  fourteen  in  number,  besides  a  few  in  other 
places,  dedicated  to  his  honour,  but  constant  references  to  the  juice  of  tint 
soma  occur  in  a  large  proportion  of  the  other  hymns.  It  is  clear  there* 
fore,  as  remarked  by  Professor  Whitney  (Journal  of  the  A  mcrican  Oriental 
v.  iii.  290),  that  bis  worship  must  at  one  tirao  hare  attained  s 
remarkable  popularity.  This  circumstance  is  thus  explained  by  the 
writer  to  whom  I  have  referred  :  "  The  simple-minded  Arian  people, 
whose  whole  religion  was  a  worship  of  the  wonderful  powers  and  pfa 
nomena  of  nature,  hud  no  sooner  perceived  that  this  liquid  had 
to  elevate  the  spirits,  and  produce  a  temporary  frenzy,  under  the  in- 
fluence of  which  the  individual  was  prompted  to,  and  capable  of, 
beyond  his  natural  powers,  than  they  found  in  it  something  div 
it  was  to  their  apprehension  n  god,  endowing  those  into  whom  it 
entered  with  godlike  powers ;  the  plant  which  afforded  it  became  to 
them  the  king  of  plants ;  the  process  of  preparing  it  was  a  holy  sacri- 
fice ;  the  instruments  used  therefor  were  sacred.  The  high  antiqu 
of  this  coitus  is  attested  by  the  references  to  it  found  occurring  in 
Persian  Avceta ; m  it  seems,  however,  to  have  received  a  new  imp. 
on  Indian  territory." 

m  Srt  Dr.  Wifidwckmsnn'*  Eawy  or.  the  Soeuuwonhip  of  th«  iruv,  or  tit 


idphc- 
power 
'he  in- 
deed! 

ivins: 


SOMA. 


IN 


(1)   Quotation  from  Euripidea  relating  to  the  Oruk  god  Dioitijtu*. 

As  illustrating  tbu  sentiments  which  garo  rise  to  the  adoration  of 

Dionysus,  the  Orcciin  Soma,  I  ehall  introduce  here  aomo  verses  from 

tho  Bucchao  of  Euripides,  272  ff.,  in  which  the  philosophical  poet  puta 

into  tho  mouth  of  the  prophet  Toircsios  a  vindication  of  tho  worship 

of  tho  new  god,  against  the  ridicule  which  had  been  thrown  upon 

him  by  Fenthcus,  together  with  a  statement  of  tho   reasons  which 

justified  his  deification,  and  •  rationalistic  explanation  of  a  current 

myth  regarding  him : 

O&rot  f  i  Sa/pair  *  »•/«»  **•  <rt>  JmytAft 
quk  or  Svnupipr  fiJytfoi  /(<i»»Ti»  Strot 
wo**  '£AAie*  l<rr«u  •  3k  -fa,  i  wWo, 
•tk  wp*V  It  btyvroiffi,  fl^W  *«*. 
iMj  8"  ttrriw  troyia  f  tvArrpor  BovKtt  rcUci- 
oZwif  fiir  tr  {ripmoir  iierpiQii  Rpmoin  • 
t  V  i\»o/  ir\  rAvWwnAor,  A  It/tiKnt  y6nt, 
/EUrpi'Ot  tiyphv  *£/*'  %vf*  miayji^yxaro 
drriTfit,  t  ravn  roil  raXtniiAfcvi  (3f<rrolt 
/.irtit,  trar  x\i\<iOiair  d*iW\ov  hovt, 
twrat  t»,  A^flijc  tSk  ires'  iurfpe*  HRfl»i 
Ji'eW*,  clX  for*  tXKo  f^fautov  virar. 
o£toi   Otottri    «nr«r&rrax   0«6t   y*yoi$l 

*Vre  8i4  toJtok  re-prfc?  M?vrovy  f%"r. 
ral  *aTny«AaT  rir,  At  irtfpi^t  Aiij 
^t|p*'    8lii>    ff*  iii    koAli    <x«   T*»>. 

*rti  »ir  fljwoff*  /*  tifii  MfMbfiav 

Z«it,  »I»  >*"OAiijarnr  Bpifoi  Arfrywyir  a***, 

Ztvi  {*  arrt^iiixo^iTar',  «M(  0«4j, 
Mat  fu'pet  n  rot  jK»d»"  tfTWicAav^nv 
alCipoi  Ifaitf  r6rt'  Sjnipov  /»5iAo!»i 
£icii-i«rov  "H/m»  tfiixiur-  Xpirif  ti  fW 
fipoiol  TfWfqtw  +ti»  if  WW  A,i,> 
Scrota  fMTOffT^ffarrtT,  *ri  8«a  Stit 
"Hjxj  toS  iiu^txvei,  rvrQtrrti  \nyor. 
fubrit  I"  4  oaftiur  Wt  -  rb  yif  Barnx't^'M"" 
ral  to  tunijil  tiaprurfcr  reAAjir  fjci- 
*>•*>  yep  i  eV»i  «fi  r6  vip    Ix0p  weAtfr, 
Kiyto-  t«  tUXX»¥  reitt  infitirirai  toil, 

tmulattd  extracts  from  it  in  the  2nd  rol.  of  this  work,  p.  469  ff. ;  and  tho  txtract 
there  given,  p.  474,  bum  Plutarch  de  I  rid.  et  Osir,  40,  in  which  the  soma,  or  as  it  u 
in  Zccd,  heoma,  appeani  to  lx>  r< Urn<i  to  under  the  appellation  fyurfu.  See  alao  ow 
the  fact  of  the  earns  rit-  bssM  being  onirinalljr  idcabcal  with  the  kaonia 

Mrcnoay  of  the  Zorosrtriwiw,  Hsog'i  Atuury*  Brflhmsssi,  IoUod,  p.  ii. 


260 


QUOTATION    FROM    EURIPIDES. 


"Kftiit  t«  fiaipav  utrafjiPStf  fx«'  *«**• 
ct^otok  yip  ir  SwAoij-  jjra  xiwl  To^f^i 
piDoi  StrrririiTi,  mp\v  K6yxi)t  tiyiir  ■ 
Harta  Si  no]  toPt"  *<rrl  Aiorvoou  ropo,  ir.r.fc. 

"  I  cannot  express  how  great  this  young  god,  whom  thou  ridic 
is  destined  to  become  iu  Greece1.  For,  young  man,  there  nre  two 
v,  hicli  uro  the  foremost  among  men,  the  goddess  Demotcr,  who  is  the 
F.arth; — cull  her  by  whichever  name  thou  p leases t ; — who  nourishes 
mortals  with  dry  food.  But  he,  the  son  of  Semelu,  took  the  contrary 
course.  He  discovered  and  introduced  among  men  the  liquid  draught 
■f  Uif  grape,  which  puts  an  end  to  the  Borrows  of  wretched  mortals, — 
whin  they  ore  filled  with  the  stream  from  the  tine, — and  indue* 
sleep,  and  oblivion  of  the  evils  endured  by  day.  Nor  is  there  any  other 
remedy  for  our  distresses.  He,  hem  a  god,  ia  poured  oat  in  libations 
to  gods,  so  that  through  him  men  receive  good.  And  thou  ridicnlcst 
him  by  9aying  that  ho  was  sewn  up  in  the  thigh  (jtrjpfi)  of  Zeus.  But 
I  shall  shew  thee  how  this  is  rendered  reasonable.  When  Zeus  rescued 
the  infant  from  the  lightning-Hume,  and  brought  him  to  Olympus,  II. n 
wisliod  to  expel  him  from  heaven.  But  Zens,  like  a  god,  count-  . 
thiB  design.  Detaching  u  portion  of  tho  aether  which  encircle* 
earth,  ha  gave  this  as  a  hostage  (ofj-ypov)  to  llera,  so  delivering  Dio- 
nysus from  her  hostility ;  and  in  course  of  time,  because  ha  became  a 
hortage  to  Hera,  men  began  to  say, — changing  the  word,  and  inventing 
n  fable, — thut  ho  had  been  retired  in  the  thigh  of  Zeus.  And  this  god 
is  a  prophet.  For  Bacchic  excitement  and  raving  have  in  them  great 
prophetic  power.  When  this  god  enters  in  force  into  the  body,  he 
causes  men  to  rare  and  foretell  the  future.  And  ho  also  partakes  of 
the  character  of  Ares  (Mars).  For  panic  (sometimes)  terrifies  a  force 
of  armed  men  drawn  up  ia  battle  array,  before  the  actual  dashing  of 
tho  hosts.     This  madness  too  is  derived  from  Dionysus."  ** 

*•*  In  an  curlier  pnrt  of  the  un»  piny,  tcit«  200  ff,  ITie  following  protest  *f  int 
free  enquiry  in  religious  matter*  U  put  l>j  thu  pod  lata  (be  mouth  of  Tcirtauj,  who 
sty*  to  Cadmus : 

oMv  oo<lniduftr6a  roim  Baf/iooi. 

•atpioot  tafaXnxil,  it  f  AfAiKixax  xft't 

««*T^.«f,  uW«)t  «A*A  KurajfoAiT  \Ayoi, 

«W  <i  <»*  txpur  to  awpby  ijjprrrai  Qpirir. 

"  In  tliiujp  llmt  tiiiiih  the  gnfa  it  in  not  good 
To  nuTcr  captious  rtason  tu  intrude. 


[era 

r 


ANCIENT   SOMA.\TORSmJ\ 


2CI 


(2)  Prtvalenc4  and  enthuaiatiie  character  ofth*  ancient  Soma-ieorthip. 

Professor  Ilaug,  in  his  work  on  tho  AiUreya  Brahmana  (Iotrod. 
p.  60),  thus  writes  of  the  soma  sacrifice  :  "  Being  thus,"  (r*.c.  through 
the  oblation  of  an  animal)  "  received  among  the  gods,  the  sacrificer  is 
deemed  worthy  to  enjoy  tho  divine  beverage,  the  soma,  and  participate 
in  tho  heavenly  king,  who  is  Soma.  The  drinking  of  the  sorou-juice 
makes  him  a  new  man ;  though  a  new  celestial  body  bad  been  prepared 
for  him  at  the  Pruvnrgya  ceremony,  the  enjoyment  of  the  soma  beverage 
transform*  him  again;  for  tho  nectar  of  tho  gods  flows  for  the  first 
time  in  his  reins,  purifying  and  sanctifying  him." 

Willi  tho  decline  of  the  Vedio  worship,  however,  and  the  intro- 
duction of  new  deities  and  now  ceremonies,  tho  popularity  of  Soma 
gradually  decreased,  and  has  long  sinco  passed  away;  and  his  name  is 
now  familiar  to  those  few  Bruhmans  only  who  still  maintain  in  a  few 
places  the  early  Vedic  observances. 

The  hymns  addressed  to  Soma  WCM  intended  to  bu  sung  while  the 
juice  of  the  plant,  said  to  be  produced  on  Mount  Mujavat,  It.  Y.  x.  31, 
1  (tonatjieva  Maujatatatya  bhakthah),m  from  which  he  takes  his  namo 
(the  atclepia*  acida  or  aareo»t-emma  riminalu)  was  being  pressed  out  and 
purified.*4  They  describe  enthusiastically  tho  flowing  forth  and  filtra- 
tion of  the  divine  juice,  and  the  effects  produced  on  tho  worshippers, 
and  supposed  to  bo  produced  on  tho  godn,*"  by  partaking  of  the  bere*- 
sge.    Thus  tho  first  verse  of  the  first  hymn  of  tho  ninth  book  runs 

Traditions  Itandol  down  from  sire  to  sou 
Sine*  time  itself  began  its  couru  to  ran 
By  reasonings  never  can  be  undflinuaed. 
Though  forg-rd  by  inUllvct*  tho  most  wlinwL" 
To  this  the  advocates  or  a  critical  u»1(|iHui  into  the  troth  of  ancient  holiest  might 
rrplj  in  thf  wor.lt  of  tho  Messenger  in  the  Helena  of  tliv  same  post,  vorsss  1017  f. 
>:;h  llioir  original  application  wa«  different)  : 

tr&Qpom  8'  hue-riot 
aim  term  tvC'iv  xprpttuirtpor  fi/titroU. 

-  Nought  can  to  men  mora  useful  he, 
Than  prudent  incredulity." 
JHviwm  swriftaA,  "MQja'nt  is  a  hill,"  Kir.  ix.  8     See  also  Viij.  S.  iiL  61, 
I  commentary. 
•»*  Sea  tho  process  as  dsscribed  hj  w,  after  Dr.  Stevtaaon,  in  the  Sod 

■  ',j*  work,  p.  470. 
>*»  Bee  Ait.  Dr.  n.  1 1,  quoted  shove,  p.  JS,  note  ICS. 


2C2     nOW  THE  SOMA-PLAXT  WAS  BROUGHT  TO  THE  EARTH. 

thus :  Svudith\hayA  maditkthayA  paeaiva  Soma  dharayA  IndrAya  pilaw 
tutah  |  "  O  Soma,  poured  out  for  Itidre  to  drink,  flow  on  purely  in  • 
moat  sweet  and  most  exhilarating  current."  In  vi.  47,  1,  2,  the  jnioi 
is  described  as  sweet,  honied,  pungent,  well-flavoured,  and  exhilarating. 
No  one  can  withstand  Indra  in  battle  when  he  has  drunk  it  (avdafaaft 
kilAyam  madhumAn  it  tat/ am  tirrah  kildyam  r/uacdn  utAyam  |  uto  an 
atya papivQmtam  Imiram  na  kaichnna  takaU  Akartthtt  |  ayam  icAdmr  ika 
madithfhah  Ota).  When  quaffed,  it  stimulates  the  voice,  and  calls 
forth  ardent  conceptions  (ibid,  verse  3).  In  a  verse  (viii,  48,  3,) 
already  quoted  above  (p.  90,  note),  in  the  account  of  Indra,  the 
worshippers  exclaim:  "Wo  have  drank  the  soma,  wo  hove  become 
immortal,  wc  have  entered  into  light,  wc  have  known  tha  gods.  What 
can  an  enemy  now  do  to  us,  or  what  can  the  malice  of  any  mortal 
effect,  o  thou  immortal  god  ?  " 

(3)  How  the  soma-plant  tea*  brought  to  Ike  earlk. 

The  plant  is  said  to  have  been  brought  by  a  falcon,  i.  80, 
(tomah  tymAbkritah) ;  iii.  43,  7  (a  yam  te  [/nrfrdya]  iynttk 
jabh&ra)  ;  viii.  71,  9  ;  frum  thu  sky,  ir.  26,  6  {rijlpl  tymo 
mono  n&ium  paruratah  iakuno  taandram  madam  \  ttrmam  lharad 
QdM  devarAn  dico  WMKAgdd  utlunid  AdAya) ;  viii.  84,  3;  by 
•  welUwingcd  bin!,  or  Suparna,  to  Indra,  viii.  89,  8  (dies*  ntparm* 
yatvAya  tomaih  lojrin*  Abharai)  ;  er  from  a  mountain,  L  93,  6  tamo- 
thitud  anyam  (soma in)  Parl  tyeno  adrek),  where  it  had  been  placed  by 
Varuna,  v.  85,  2  (c/in  ifryflM  odaikdt  tomam  adrau).  In  iii.  48,  3; 
v.  -13,  4;  ix.  18,  I;  ix.  62,  4 ;  ix.  85,  10  ;  is.  98,  9,  it  ia  called 
airithfhil  (found  on  a  mountain).  In  another  place,  ix.  113,  3,  it  is 
declared  te  have  been  brought  by  the  daughter  of  the  sun  from  the 
place  where  it  hnd  boon  nourished  by  Purjanya,  the  rain-god,  when 
the  Gandharvas  took  it,  and  infused  into  it  sap  {I'arjanya-crtddkam 
mnhisfawt  turn  turyuya  duhittl  'bhatat  |  tarn  gandkarvuk  praty  ayri- 
bfnitm  lam  tome  ra*am  Adadkuh).  In  ix.  H2,  3,  as  we  have  teen  above, 
p.  142,  Parjanya  is  said  to  be  the  father  of  Soma  ;  und  in  A.V. 
xix.  6,  16,  the  god  ia  suid  to  huvo  sprung  from  Purusha  {rajaak 
8m§tffa  .  .  .  .jAlatya  PuruthAd  adhi). 

In  other  passages  a  Qnndharva  ia  connected  with  the  soma- plant,  Am 
sphere  {pada)  of  which  ho  ia  said  to  protect,  and  all  the  forma  of  which 


HOW  THE  SOMA-PLAXT  WAS  BROUGHT  TO  THE  EARTH.     2« 


ho  is  «id  to  manifest,  ix.  83,  4;  ix.  85,  12'"  (ytmdhartiih  itthA 
padam  ttga  rakthatt  \  tirdhco  gandharro  adhi  nuke  cuth&A  tiifd  rUpuni 
pralkhakthune  atya).  The  Aitaxeya  Bmhmana  has  the  following  story 
regarding  the  mode  in  which  the  gods  obtained  soma  from  the  Gand- 
harras,  L  27.  Stmo  Ma  rilja  gandhartttko  atlt  \  tavt  detiii  cha  rithagai 
eka  abhyadliijuyan  "Latham  again  aumhi  noma  r&jii  dgaehhed"  iti  |  *1 
Vug  akravlt  " ttrlJulwth  rui  gandkarrOh  \  mat/il  era  ttrigd  bkafayA 
panagadhtam"  iti  "Jfa"  iti  detuh  abrucau  "httham  vayttfo  lead  file 
•ydflia"  iVi  |  *d  'brarU  "Ar/nlte  era  j  yarki  run*  to  may  a  artho  bharillk 
tar  kg  era  ro  'ham  puitar  dgaiiliUmi''  iti  |  "tathn"  iii  |  tagd  mah'iga- 
gnyii  bh&tayS.  Soman  rtljunam  akrUan  \m  "King  Soma  was  among 
the  Oaudharvas.  The  gods  and  riahis  desired  him,  and  suid  '  II  ow 
ahull  we  get  him  to  MOM  to  us?'  ViWli  uaid,  'The  Oandharvaa  are 
fond  of  female*;  buy  him  in  exchauge  for  me  turned  into  n  fvmulc' 
They  answered,  '  No :  how  can  we  live  without  thee  ? '  Shi-  ti joined, 
'  Buy  him,  and  whenever  you  have  occasion  for  me  I  shall  return  to 
yon.'  They  agreed,  and  bought  king  Soma  with  VAch  turned  into  n 
female,  quite  nnked  [i*.«.  unchastt*]."  See  Profeator  Hang's  transluiinn 
of  tbia  hruhmano,  p.  69,  uud  compare  pp.  201  ft. ;  294;  and  400. 

In  the  Siitapntha  BrAhmana  iii.  2,  4,  1  If.,  it  i*  related  that  the 
soma  existed  formerly  in  the  sky,  whilst  the  gods  wore  here  (on  eat 
They  desired  to  get  it,  that  they  might  employ  it  in  sacrifice.  The 
Gayatrt  flew  to  bring  it  for  them.  While  aho  was  carrying  it  off  the 
Gandharva  Vibhavasu  robbed  her  of  it.  The  gods  became  aware  of 
thin,  and  knowing  the  partiality  of  the  Oandhorras  for  females  (com- 
pare iii.  9,  3,  20,  and  A.V.  ir.  37,  11  f.),  thoy  sent  Vach,  tho  goddcoa 
of  speech,  to  got  it  from  them,  which  she  succeeded  in  doing  (Diri  wi» 
temak  Stlt  \  atha  iha  devdk  |  te  dtrnk  aknmaganta  ua  nek  *«mogo*hS*t 

***  8ee  Bohurngk  mil  Roth's  Lexicon  under  thr  word  0**JA*rr*. 

m  Th«  Taitt.  Br.  ti.  1.  8,  6  (pp.  90  IT.  of  ludmu  Office  Mb.),  tclU  tha  same  itory. 
)nii  my*  chat  thoy  turned  Vficb  into  a  wimmn  ono  year  old;  and  that  after  »h*  bad 
goae  they  induced  her  to  come  back  by  ringing  {the  Gandharvaa,  whom  she  had  left. 
Meanwhile  reciting  ■  prayer,  or  incantation},  uud  hence  womem  lore  a  nun  who  ting* 
(Mm  «Mn  ahrtynatSnam  gandkam  ViiratetaX  peryemtun^it  |  .  .  U  inik 
atrwrem  "  nlriiiimi't  mi  fandKanah  ttriyS  Hukknndma"  Hi  |  It  ITiciam 
Hritem  ikahayaam  JtritvA  teyh  uirakr'mim  |  m  rokid-ripam  kfitvi  gendJkerte- 
ikyo  'patramy.i  etuAfhal  \  lad  rohilt  jomme  |  It  aVroA  nbniean  N  ape  yutkmed 
akrtmin  Mainuii  upantrttatt  r.Aoty.11  "  id  |  t-raima  ?anJktr*<'A  antdoMit  |  afiyait 
tlrt'ih  |  ta  der»n  jHyalak  »p.\v*rlta<a  \  tatmaJ  yiywntan  elriyak  *a»^j»*.'»  J 
Ui inula  mini  etrif*  bkeremti  ym  rtwn  ecrfn). 


m 


SOMA1 8  WIVES. 


Una  Rgalma  yajemaJii''  iti  I  ....  2.  Telhyo  gnyatrl  umam  eckk* 
epatiit  \  taiyai  Ukarantyai  yandharcc  Viieumtuh  paryamuhn&t  \  It 
dtvAh  aviduh  " pratfiyuto  vai  para*tAt  tomah  \  a'.ha  *e  w.t  AyaeAhsii  | 
gandharcAk  vai  parytimotluihur  "  Hi  \  U  ha  &ehur  "  yothit-kdmak  mi 
gandhartAh    \   Vncham  eta  tiliyak  prahinuriima  \  til  nah  taha 


Agamiihyati"  iti  \  lebhyo  Yucham  prAhinvan  *A  twin  taha  wiimm 
agathhat.  And  in  li.  7,  2,  8,  it  is  said :  "  The  soma  existed  in  the 
sky.  Tho  G&yatrf  became  a  bird,  and  brought  it"  (rfin  cat  Sammk 
a«U  lam  gfiyalri  i-ayo  bhulra  "ftarat).  Bee  also  the  BUUipalha  Brab- 
munu,  iii.  i,  3,  13,  and  iii.  6,  2,  2-18,  towards  the  close  of  which 
passage,  as  veil  as  in  iii.  9,  3,  18,  the  Gandharvaa  oro  spoken  of  at 
the  guardians  of  tho  soma  {tomarokthah) ;  and  Taitt.  Sanh.  vi.  1,  6,  1,  &. 


(4)  Soma't  wim. 


Tho  Taitt.  Sanh.,  ii.  3,  5,  1,  relates  that  Prnjnpati  had  thirty-three 
daughters  whom  he  gnve  to  king  Soma.  Soma,  however,  frequented 
tho  society  of  RohinT  only.  This  aroused  tho  jealousy  of  tho  rest,  who 
returned  to  their  futhcr.  Soma  followed,  and  asked  that  they  should 
go  back  to  him,  to  which,  however,  Prajapati  would  not  agree  till 
Son*  bad  promi»i<"d  to  Mandate  with  them  all  equally.  Ho  agreed; 
but  spin  bebaved  us  before,  when  be  was  seized  with  consumption, 
etc.  {PrajApatet  Irayattrifftsad  dichitarah  Stan  |  ttih  Som&ya.  rAjnt 
'dadnl  |  til&Am  Jiolnn'tni  Upoit  \  tiih  irtthyant'th  puntir  agachhan  \  Ink 
await  |  lAk  punar  iiyAchida  |  tAh  arnnai  rnt  punar  adadAt  |  so  'brarld 
"  fitam  amUhva  yathA  tam&raclihah  vpauhy&ni  atha  U  punar  d/lsyimin 
iti  |  ta  ntom  Am\t  |  tAh  MM)  tHOMT  iidadAt  |  tutim  Jtohinln  tern 
upait  |  yakthma  Archhat).  In  the  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  3,  10,  1  SL,  another 
story  is  told  of  Soma.  Pr.ijnp.iti  created  him ;  and  after  hira  the  three 
Vedae,  which  ho  tnok  into  bis  hanoL  Row,  Bits  Sftvitrl  lored  Bona, 
while  he  loved  Sraddhii.  SIM  ciime  to  her  father  Prajupati,  and, 
(diluting  him,  asked  to  be  allowed  to  appronch  him  with  her  romplaiat. 
Sin'  1"'. i>1  S.iinn,  Kb<'  miid,  while  he  loved  Sraddhii.  Prajapati  made 
for  her  a  paste  formed  of  a  sweet  smelling  substance,  to  which  he 
imparted  potency  by  the  recitation  of  certain  formulas,  and  then 
painted  it  upon  her  forehead.  She  then  returned  to  Soma,  who  in- 
vited  her  to  approach  hira.      She   desired   hiin  to   promise  her  his 


I 


rR0rEBTIE8  ASCRIBED  TO  THE  SOMA-JTJICB,  ETC.         265 

society,  and  to  tell  her  what  bo  had  in  his  hand ;  whereupon  ho  gave 
her  tho  three  Vedaa ;  and  in  consequence  women  always  ask  for  some 
gift  as  a  prioo  for  their  embraces,  etc.  Tho  Lriihmnna  goes  on  to 
recommend  the  ubo  of  the  same  paste,  prepared  with  tho  same  formulas, 
as  a  specific  for  producing  love  or  good  will  {Prajipatik  Somam  rajQnam 
atrtja'.a  |  tarn  trayo  vtddh  anv  aif-ijyanla  |  t<~m  hattt  'huruta  \  aiha  ha 
Slid  84uitri  Sjiiiwii  r-'j'tnam  chakamt  \  Sraddhnm  w  ta  ehakamt  \  td  ha 
pitaram  PrajSpatim  upatat&ra  \  tai'n  ha  uvdcha  "nomas  tt  aitu  bha- 
garah  |  upa  tvd  aydni  (2)  pra  ted  dpadys  |  Soma  fit  eat  rajanam  i&mayt 
Sraddhdm  u  ta  kdmayats"  iti  \  tatyai  u  ha  tlhdgaram  alankdram 
kalpayitva  daiahotnram  purattdd  rydkhydya  chalurhotdrafii  dahhinatah 
pmchahoturam  paiehlt  thaddhotdram  ullaratah  saplahoturam  uparishfdl 
sambfuirai*  patnihhii  cha  mukhe  ahmkritya  |  3.  Aiya  arddham  ravrdja  \ 
to  fit  ha  udlhthya  utiicha  "  upa  md  tarttatva"  iti  |  taiit  ha  uvdcha  "  bho 
f autism  (the  commentator  explains  the  phrase  as  if  he  read  bhoyam  tu) 
■M  dehalthra  |  etan  mo  Achakthva  yat  te  p&nac "  iti  |  tatyai  u  Irln 
vtddn  pradada*  \  Uumud  u  ha  tlnyo  bhoyam  oca  hdrayanU). 

(5)  Proptrtitt  atcribrd  to  the  soma-juie*  or  itt  presiding  drity. 

Tho  juice  of  this  plant  is  said  to  be  on  immortal  ***  draught,  i.  84,  4 
(jyfthfham  amartyam  madam)  which  the  gods  love,  ix.  85,  2  {daltfto 
dtcdndm  asi  hi  priyo  madah);  IX  109,  15  (pibunti  a*ya  viiet  dtt&so 
gobhih  frlt&tya  nfihhih  sutatya),**  to  be  medicine  for  a  sick  man,  viii. 
01,  1 7  [tad  dt unity*  bhahajam).  All  tho  gods  drink  of  it,  ix.  109,  15 
{ptbanti  atya  riite  det&aah).  The  god  who  is  ita  personification  is  said 
to  clothe  whatcTcr  is  naked,  and  to  heal  whatever  is  sick ;  through 
him  the  blind  sees,  and  tho  lame  wulks  abroad,  viii.  68,  2  (abhy  Grnvti 
yan  nagruim  bhishakii  riicam  yat  turam  \  \  dhah  khyal  nth  bono 

bhut);  x.  25,  11.  He  is  the  guardian  of  men's  bodies,  and  occupies 
thoir  every  member,  viii.  48,  9  {team  hi  nat  taut  ah  soma  gopdh  giUr* 
gdtri  nishasattha  nfithakshdh). 

*•*  This  tnraas,  acourdiar;  to  Sajnna,  that  it  hua  uo  deadly  dftcU,  like  other  in- 
laiicatiag  drink*  (mmapOua/anyo  »n.fc  mnA'iiUrtt-eat  martto  n*  thatatl  >ty  arlAah), 

*"  TbaTaiit.  Mr.  i.  >.  3,  2,  say  that  aoraa  it  tho  Wat  auurUtimriit  of  llic  gods, 
and  wine  of  nen,  and  ibid.  4,  that  mm  is  a  male  and  the  wine  t  (male,  and  tlw  two 
make  a  pair  [tUJ  r«i  Atumiim  psremsm  iiawn  pit  tvmah  <<<ui  mtnuskfiQaM  yat 
sura  |  4.  JStmin  wi  soma*  ttri  tttrS  |  '«»  iiii7Amh<mm). 


S6fl 


DIVINE  POWEES  ATTRIBUTED  TO  SOMA. 


(6)  Divine  potcrrt  aUrihul/d  h  Soma, 

A  great  Tarioty  of  divine  attribute*  and  operations  are  ascribed  to 
Soma.  As  Professor  Whitney  observes,  be  is  "  addressed  as  a  god  La 
the  highest  strain*  of  adulation  and  veneration ;  all  powers  belong  to 
him;  all  blessings  are  besought  of  him,  as  bis  to  bestow"  (Joura. 
Amer.  Or.  Soc.  iii.  299).  Ho  is  said  to  bo  <u«ra,  divine 
ix.  74,  7),  and  the  soul  of  sacrifice,  atmA  ytjnatya  (ix.  2,  10;  ix. 
He  is  immortal,  amfiia  (i.  43,  9),  and  confers  immortality  on  gods  and 
men,  i.  91,  I,  6,  18  ;  viii.  48,  3,  quoted  above,  p.  90,  not*  ;  ix.  106, 
8  (/rdsi  in&to  amritaya  kam  p»p*h)  i  •*-  108,  3  (/raw  hi  ansa  sassy! 
pcTsm6M  ja*im&*i  dyumodama  amritaitdya  yhothayak) ;  ix.  109,  3  (as* 
amritaya  makt  hhayuya  iu  swtrv  ariia  die  pi  J  ptyithah).**  In  a  passage 
(ix.  1 13,  *  ff.)  where  the  joys  of  paradise  are  more  distinctly  antici- 
pated and  more  fervently  implored  than  in  most  other  parts  of  the  Rig- 
veda,  Soma  is  addressed  as  the  god  from  whom  the  gift  of  future  t 
is  expected.  Thus  it  is  there  said:  yatra  jyetir  ojatrant  yatmm  Ui* 
tear  iitam  |  Uumin  mow  dhehi  pavamun*  amfiU  lvke  akahiU  |  yalra 
nJ/<l  Faicanato  j/alrdwrodhaMih  ditch  I  yatrdotur  yakcaftr  upa*  taira 
m&m  amriftm  hridhi  |  7.  "  Place  mo,  o  purified  god,  in  that  everlasting 
^perishable  world  whore  there  is  eternal  light  and  glory.  O  Indo 
(soma),  flow  for  Indra.  8.  Make  me  immortal  in  the  world  when 
king  Yaivaevata  (Yama,  the  son  of  Vivaavat,)  lives,  whore  is  the 
innermost  sphere  of  the  sky,  whore  those  great  waters  flow."  The 
three  following  WON  nrny  be  reserved  for  the  section  on  Yuma. 

Ben  exhilarates  Varuna,  Mitra,  Indra,  Vishnu,  the  Maruta,  the 
other  gods,  Yi\yu,  Heaven  and  Earth,  ix.  90,  5  {mntii  Sovm  Varwum 
main'  Mitran  maUi  hdram  Tndo  pavamiina  Fiikmum  |  maUi  iardJm 
titanium  maUi  derin  maUi  nttkAm  Intra*  Indo  maidya);  ix.  I 
(ma/«i  1'uyum  ithfayt  rddhate  cha  maUi  Ifilrd-raruaA  pSyamunai  | 
■m/«i'  iardha  murulam  tnaUi  devHn  maUi  Dy&rS-prithitX  data  Soma). 
Both  gods  and  men  resort  to  him,  saying  that  his  juice  is  ewe. 
48,  1  {visit  yam  d<tuh  uta  marlyuio  madhu  brwanto  abhi  tan<fturanli). 
By  him  (but  sec  p.  470}  the  Aditya*  are  strong,  and  the  earth  vast,  x. 
85,  2  {tometM  Adit  yah  balinah  tomeno  pjithiri  tnaki).   He  is  the  friend, 

***  la  regard  to  th*  manner  in  which  the  gods  acquired  immortality,  see  the  8"« 
He.  Ix.  5,  1,  1  S.  quoted  aboTc  p.  II,  not*  21. 


DIYIXE   POWERS    ATTRIBUTED    TO    SOMA. 


267 


helper,  and  soul  of  Indra,  iv.  28,  1  (ttd  yuj*  Uta  tat  tema  takhyo 
Indro  apo  wununt  icsrvtat  kah  |  2.  Trd  yuja  hi  kkidat  Suryatya  Indrai 
ekakraik  takasd  tadyak  Judo);  ix.  85,  S  [At ma  Jndratya  bhacati);  x. 
25,  9  (Indratymh  iicak  takkd),  whose  vigour  bo  stimulates,  ix.  76,  2 
(Indra*ya  ituhmam  irayan),  and  whom  he  buccoutb  in  hia  conliicta 
■with  Vritrm,  ix.  61,  22  [yah  Indram  nvitfta  J'ritruya  hantai:*).  ITo 
rides  in  the  same  chariot  with  Indra,  Iiulrrna  taraiham  (ix.  87,  9; 
ix.  108,  5).  He  has,  however,  winged  mares  of  his  own,  and  a  team 
like  Vurn,  ix.  8ft,  37  (tidnak  imu  bhutandni  riyate  yuj&nah  Indo 
karitak  ntpamyah);  ix.  88,  3  (v&yur  na  yo  niyutvdn  i»li(ay<'nriii\  II a 
ascends  his  filter  in  place  of  a  car,  and  is  armed  with  &  thousand- 
pointed  shaft,  ix.  83,  5  ;  ix.  86,  40  (patitra-rathah  sahatrabk  riih(ik). 
Hia  weapons  which,  like  a  hero,  he  grasp*  in  his  hand,  ix.  76,  2 
(fiiro  na  dhaUt  ayudkA  gabkatlyok),  arc  sharp  nncl  terrible,  ix.  81,  30 
(bklmani  Ayudha  iiymdni),  and  his  bow  swift-darting,  ix.  00,3  (tiym&- 
yudkak  kthipradkuMii).  Me  is  the  slayer  of  Vritra,  critrakan,  or  rri- 
trakantama  (i.  93,  6 ;  ix.  24,  6 ;  ix.  25,  3 ;  ix.  28,  3;  x.  25,  9),  and, 
liki-  Indra,  the  destroyer  of  foes,  and  overthrower  of  cities,  ix.  61,  2; 
ix.  88,  4  (Indro  na  yo  mahd  karmSni  chah'ir  hantd  tfHrdndm  ati 
Soma  purhhit).  In  ix.  6,  9,  ho  appears  to  receive  the  epithet  of 
projiijHiii,  lord  of  creatures.  He  ia  the  creator  and  father  of  the  gods, 
ix.  42,  4  (krandan  dcc&n  ajljanat)  ;  ix.  86,  10  (piti  im&nftm  , 
vUkmatuk) ;  ix.  87,  2  (pita  decdndm  janittl  ntdakthah);  ix.  109,  4; 
the  generator  of  hymns,  of  Dyaus,  of  Prithiri,  of  Agni,  of  Sfirya,  of 
Indra,  and  of  Vishnu,  ix.  96,  5  (Somak  ptttaU  jmitd  mitludui 
Ditojanita  PrithUyuh  \janitd  Agntr  janitd  Sarycuya  janita  Indratyn 
janilata  Vithnok).  He  dispels  tho  darkness,  i.  91,  22  (ttamjyotukA  ti 
tamo  tmartka) ;  ix.  66,  24  (iukram  jyotir  njijnnat  \  kp'tknd  tamutkri 
jangkanat),  light*  up  the  gloomy  nights,  vi.  39,  3  (ayam  dyotayad 
odyuto  ti  aklfkn) ;  and  has  creuted  and  lighted  up  the  sun,  the  great 
luminary  common  to  all  mankind,  ri.  44,  23  (ayam  tiirya  adudkdj 
Jyotir  axtak) ;  ix.  61,  16  (paramdm  ojljanad  dirai  chitram  na  tanya- 
tum  |  jyotir  taiivdnaram  brikat) ;  ix.  97,  41  (ajanayat  aOryo  jyotir 
Induh)  ;  ix.  107,  7  (A  tiryom  rokayo  dirt)  ;  ix.  110,  3  (ajljano  hi 
patamdn*  Sdryam).  IIu  stretched  out  tho  atmosphere,  i.  91,  83 
a  tatantka  urn  antariktkam) ;  ri.  47,  3f.  ;  and  in  concert  with  tho 
fttbflH  (AVrw),  tho  Sky  and  the  Earth,  riii.  48,  13  (team  Soma  pitri- 


■JSj  DJV1.VE    POWERS   ATTRIBUTED    TO    SOMA. 

sap  MJmViTriir  tutu  dydvapritkiti  d  taitntka).  He  it  the  upholder  i 
ttw  sky  sod  the  suatainer  of  the  earth,  keepinu  the  two  apart,  vi  44, 
t«  («9«A  dyiicilprilkicl  vi  «*-<M«y»<)  |  vi  47,  5  l>y«i«  *.<jA««  m*UU 
UnafArriHTf  «<<  tfydm  atlabhnud  tritkabko  mantlran);  ix.  87,  2  (nit 
fnaJW  aVco  AbruRdA  pplkirytik)  ;  ix.  89,  6;  ir.  109,  6.  He  po- 
tkaeid  in  the  sacrifices  the  two  divine  worlds,  which  arc  kindly  disposes 
to  mm,  ix.  98,  9  («a  tilth  ytijntthu  rwinael  Indur  jamtkfa  rodatl  |  dm 
abet).  Ho  is  king  of  gods  and  men,  ix.  97,  21  {raja  Jecumdm  mU 
martyAmlm),  derated  over  all  worlds  [or  being*]  like  the  divine  sun, 
ix.  34,  3  (ayaw  cintini  tiskfkali  pttnuno  bkuvanop*ri  j  mm  tfrre  m 
t*iy*k).  All  creatures  arc  in  his  hand,  ix.  89,  6  (rtinSA  uta  hhtUft 
kmte  tuya).m  His  laws  are  like  those  of  king  Varuna,  i.  91,  S;  ix. 
88,  8  (riijtto  nu  U  Varunatya  vratuni) ;  and  he  is  prayed  to  forgive 
their  violation,  and  to  be  gracious  as  a  father  to  a  son,  and  to  deliver 
from  dculh,  viii.  48,  9  {yat  te  cayam  pramimuma  vratuni  ta  no  vtfiU 
nuhakhil  ima  vmynk)  ;  x.  25,  3  {uta  vratAni  Soma  U  pro)  akam 
mintimi  pul-yu  \  ad  ha  pittra  tunavt  vi  r*  mW<  mrila  jw  abS 
vadhGd  rirakthatt).  lie  is  thousand-eyed,  ix.  60,  1,  2  {tafuur*- 
ekaktkat),  and  sees  and  knows  all  creatures,  and  hurl*  iho  irre- 
ligious into  the  abyss,  ix.  73,  8  {ridcan  ta  tifru  bkuratiA  'bki  pai- 
yafi  ara  ajuthttin  ridkyati  karte  avraliia) ;  and  guards  the  live*  of  sU 
rooting  beings  as  a  cowherd  tend*  bin  cattle,  x.  25,  6  (smitt*  mm  Sawu 
raktkati  purutrd  tuhfhitato  jagat  |  tam&krinoshi  jlcatt  ri  co  mad*  rtird 
taitpaiyan  bhucand  vitti&thate).  He  is  the  chief  and  most  fiery  of  tho 
formidable,  the  most  heroic  of  heroes,  the  most  bountiful  of  the  benefi- 
cent, and  as  a  warrior  he  is  always  victorious,*"  ix.  66,  16  (make*  am 

n  »omc  additional  piumyo*  quoted  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  ti  I 

•"  In  ix  'JO,  16,  ia,  hi.  weapons  arc  referred  lo;  hi  ri.  44.  22,  he  is  said  to  hate 

Bjs  millgtlMl   i    in  i    "I  hW  weapons  anil  hi»   m»(rioil  flrricta  (ayaw  *ruy 

tadmr  tuuuiknod  aiitatya  mayhS).     It  U  n-luted  in  the  Alt.  Br. 

I   14,  that tWv  va»  forni«lT  war  brtweon  th«  god*  ami  the.  Antra*.     Thaj  f««gtt 

kvrthrr  in  the  taut,  (uuth,  wort,  and  north,  nod  in  all  time  quarter*  the  Aran* 

mnv  ricUirioo*.     In  ihi  north-nut,  howeier,  tht  god*  were  not  orcrcome,  far  that  i* 

•  Urn  unconquerahle  region."     The  god*  ajcribed  their  former  defeats  to  the  nut  at 

1 1  ing  no  king,  and  agreed  to  mike  Soma  their  monarch,  after  which  thary  mm 

hi  un  all  Iho  point* of  tho  compass  (2V«o*i»roA  mi  mAh  Ubtku  mm»y»LmS*  | 

i.y.7w  pri<tiyam  4tii  tfrtmtU  \  lama  l*U  'i*rak*j*y*n  \  ....  I,  uf.rijim 

Cfim  diii  nyd/iiM/a  |  It  ItUi  na  ptrnjiyamta  |  »rl  **Aa  4if  «jn  .  .  ar 

■IrrnvHn  "mrvjatayo  mm  noj*y*Mi\  rnjhnam  UrtnimaUt"  1/1  |  "UlW 
I  u  wm«  rnjiiHM  aiurrmn  |  U  tmmu  tijai  »»rcd*  dU*  'Jofmn). 


SOMA   ASSOCIATED   WITH   OTHER   GODS. 


2»i9 


soma  jyrxhfhah  ur/runam  Mo  ojishfnah  |  yiulhvd  son  iaivad  jigttha  |   17. 
Yah  uyrtbhyai  chid  ofiytin  iftrtbhyai  chit  idralarah  J  bhUridAbhyai  chid 
mafihlyan).     Ho  conquers  for  his  worshippers  cows,  chariots,  horse*, 
gold,  heaven,  water, — a  thousand  desirable  things,  ix.  78,  4  (gojin  nah 
somo  raihajid  Mragyajit  tvarjid  ahjit  pavaU  tahatraj'it),  and  every  thing, 
viii.  68,  1   (pihajit).     He  is  a  wise  rishi,  viii.  68,   1  (fiskir  tiprah 
k&vyrna);  strong,  skilful,  omniscient,  prolific,  glorious,  i.  91,  2  (team 
Soma  hratubhih  tukratur  bhAs  tram  dakshaih  sudaksho  cisvartdAh  |  team 
VfishA  rrishat-rtbhir  mahitcd  dyumncbhir  dytsmnl  alhaco    nruhuhhuh). 
He  is  tln>  priest  of  tho  gods,  the  leader  of  poets,  a  rishi  among  sages, 
a  bull  among  wild   animals,   a  falcon   among  kites,  nn   axo  in  the 
woods,  ix.  9(1,  6  {brahmu  drvanilm  padavlh  kavlnam  fuhir  tiprAnAm 
mahisJ.o  mriyAnAm   \  iyeno  gfidhrAmlih   tririfhifir   vanAnAm).      Ho   is 
an  unconquerable  protector  from  enemies;   i.  91,  21  {ashAlham  yutsu 
pritanAiu  paprim)  ;   x.  25,  7  (tvaift  nah  Soma  rHvato  gop&h  adubhyo 
bhaea  |  i(dha  rdjann  apa  sridhah).     If  he  desires  that  his  votaries 
shall  lire,  they  do  not  die,  i.  91,  6  (tvam  eha-  soma  no  caio  jlcAtum  Ha 
marAmahe).    In  viii.  48,  7,  ho  is  prayed  to  prolong  their  lire*,  as  the 
•an  tho  days  {Soma  rAjan  pra  nah  Ayamshi  Mrlr  ahdnlva  suryo  rAsa- 
rAni).     In  x.  59,  4,  ho  is  prayed  not  to  abandon  tho  worshipper  to 
death  (mo  thu  nah  soma   rnrityavs  para  duh).     The   friend  of  a  god 
like  him  cannot  suffer,  i.    91,   8  (no  rishyet  tcAtarah  salhA).     Tbo 
friendship  and  intimacy  of  such  a  god  is  eagerly  desired,  ix.  66,  18 
(rfinlmahf  sakhyAya  tfi*\maht<  ftfjflgti).     In  x.  30,  6,  he  is  said  to 
rejoice  in  the  society  of  the  waters,  as  a  man  in  that  of  beautiful 
young  women  [yubhih  somo  modal*  harth&U  eha  ia/yanlbhir  yuralibhir 
ma  maryah). 

(7)  Soma  associated  with  ->ther  yois. 


Soma  is  associated  with  Agni  as  an  object  of  adoration  in  i.  93,  1  ff. 
In  verso  5  of  that  hymn  those  two  gods  are  mid  to  have  placed  tho 
luminaries  in  tho  sky  [yuvnm  tlAni  dirt  rochanAni  Aynii  eha  Soma 
luiratQ  adhattam).  In  the  same  way  Soma  and  Puahan  are  conjoined 
in  ii.  40,  1  ff.,  where  various  attributes  and  functions  of  s  magnificent 
character  arc  ascribed  to  them.  Thus,  in  verse  1,  they  arc  arid  to  bo 
the  generators  of  wealth,  and  of  hearen  and  earth,  to  have  been  bora 


270      SOMA  IN  TEE  POST-VEDIO  AGB  A  NAME  OP  TUB  MOOS. 


the  guardians  of  the  whole  universe,  and  to  have  been  made  by 
gods  the  centre  of  immortality  {JaiumH  raylnOm  janand  din  jnmk 
prilhiey&h  \  j&tau  xiivatya  bhucaiuuya  gtptu  detuh  akjinrnnm  mmp'Utf* 
ndbJiim).  Tho  one  lio»  mode  hia  abode  in  the  sky,  mud  the  other  oo 
the  earth,  and  in  the  atmosphere  (verse  4).  The  one  has  produced  all 
the  worlds,  and  the  other  move*  onward  beholding  all  things  (rem  5] 
(4.  Did  ant/ah  sadanam  ehakrt  uthehA  prithwy&m  anyo  adhi  anUtrihi*  | 
6.  ViarHni  anyo  bhuvana  jajuna  tiitam  anyo  abhiehafohamak  tH),  li 
vi.  72,  and  vii.  104,  Soma  and  Indra  are  celebrated  in  company.  la 
the  first  of  Sum  hymus  the*}*  are  mid  to  dispel  darkness,  to  destroy 
rerilere,  to  bring  tho  sun  and  the  light,  to  prop  up  the  sky  with  sup- 
irorts,  and  to  have  spread  out  mother  earth  (verse  1 .  Yurawt  Sitrytm 
dvidalhur  yuraih  star  vihri  fam&md  ohatam  nidai  eha  |  2.  Yfttayatktk 
Uthlsam  ut  tiiryam  nayalho  jyotithu  laha  |  upa  dyam  n.'.ambkatMuk  tiam- 
bhantna  aprathatam  prithithn  mutaram  vi).  In  vii.  104,  their  ven- 
geance is  invoked  againBt  Rakahases,  Yatudhanas,  and  other  enemies. 

Hymn  vi.  7-1,  is  dedicated  to  tho  honour  of  Soma  and  Kudra  con- 
jointly. The  two  gods,  who  oro  aoid  to  be  armed  with  shurp  weapons 
(tirjmCtyutlhau  ligmaMi)  are  there  supplicated  for  blowings  to  nun 
and  boost,  for  healing  remedies,  and  for  deliveranoe  from  sin  (id-*  m 
bhtitam  dripadt  Sam  rhatmhpadt  \  ttdni  am*  fiita  tana*hu  bha*haj&m 
dhallam  \  ata  tyalam  muncJuilam  yan  ho  atti  tanuthu  baddham  krtlan 
mo  aamat). 


(8 )  Soma  in  the  posUredic  aye  a  nam*  of  (he  moon. 


In  the  post-vedic  oge  Die  name  Soma  came  to  be  commonly  applied 
to  the  moon  und  its  regent.  Even  in  the  Rig-vcda,  some  trace*  of  this 
application  scorn  to  bo  discoverable.  Thus  in  x.  85,  2  ff.  (which,  bow- 
ever,  Professor  Roth  regards  as  of  comparatively  modern  date :  HI.  of 
Hir.  p.  147),  thero  appears  to  bo  an  allusion  to  the  double  sense  of  the 
word:  2.  Sonurnadilyah  balinah  Someno  prithiti  mahl  \  athe  nahJul- 
irt'innui  ahum  upanth*  Somah  ihilnh  |  3.  Somam  manyai* papiran  yet  urn- 
fimshanti  othadhim  \  Somam  yam  brahmUno  ddur  na  ta*y&6nali kaMuuu  [ 
air  gupito  barhataify  Soma  rakthitali  \  gr&tn/lm  it  ijr*~ 
tan  tuhfhasi  »d  te  aindti pHrthirali  |  5.  Yat  tt&  dexah  prapibanti  Utah 
upyayatt  punah  \   Vayuh  Somatya  rahhitu  tamunum  muiah.  clritih  j 


U 


SOMA  1H  THE  POST-VEDIC  AOE  A  NAME  OP  THE  MOON.      27! 

"  2.  By  Soma  the  Adityas  cue  strong ;  by  Soma  the  earth  is  great ;  and 
8oma  is  placed  in  the  centre  of  these  stars.  3.  When  they  crush  the 
plant,  ho  who  drinks  regards  it  a*  Soma.  Of  him  whom  the  pricata 
regard  as  Soma  (the  moon)  no  ono  drinks.  '1.  Protected  by  those  who 
shelter  thee,  and  preserved  by  thy  guardian*,"0  thou,  Soma,  hcorcst 
the  sound  of  the  crushing-stones ;  but  no  earthly  being  tastes  thee. 
5.  When  the  gods  drink  thee,  ogod,  thou  increasest  again.  Viiyu  is  tho 
guardian  of  Homa:  the  month  ia  a  part  of  the  years."4"  Jn  tha 
Atharro-veda  tho  following  half-verso  occurs,  xi,  6,  7  :  Soma  md  d*c« 
muncAotu  yam  dhui  thandrnmuh  Hi  |  "  May  tho  god  Soma  free  me,  ho 
whom  they  call  the  moon."  And  in  the  Sutapatba  Bruhmana,  i.  G,  4, 
ft ;  xi.  1,  3,  2  ;  xi.  1,  3,  4,  and  xi.  1,  4,  4,  we  have  the  words :  Eth» 
MM*  Some  rdj'd  dnilmim  annafo  yal  chandram&l}  |  "This  king  Soma, 
who  is  tho  moon,  is  tho  food  of  tho  gods."  Similarly  in  xL  1,  3,  ft : 
chatuiraav'ik  tat  Some  dttiini'im  antrnm  |.  "  Soma  is  the  moon,  tho  food 
of  the  gods."  See  also  i.  6,  3,  24  :  Hiiryah  cva  ligneyah  |  <handram&k 
taxmyah  |  "  The  sun  1ms  tho  nature  of  Agni,  tho  moon  of  Soma ;  "  and 
xii.  1,  1,  2  :  Sonto  rm  thandramfih  \  "  Soma  is  the  moon."  In  v.  3,  3, 
12,  and  in  ix.  4,  3,  16,  Soma  is  said  to  be  the  king  of  the  Br&hmana 
{Some  'tm&tar*  bruhmr.n&n&m  tiffi).  In  the  Vishiju  Puriina  (book  i. 
chap.  22,  p.  85  of  Wilson's  translation,  rol.  2,  Dr.  llsll's  ed.)  tho 
double  character  of  Soma  is  indicated  in  these  words:  "  Brahma  ap- 
pointed Soma  to  be  monarch  of  the  stars  and  planets,  of  Brahmans  and 
of  plants,  of  sacrifices  and  of  austere  devotions''  {nthhattra-gralui- 
tipr&*Am  cirudkato  thUpy  aitihatah  \  Semum  rujyt  dadatt  Braimd  y<tj- 
rtinaik  tapasdm  opt). 


«*■  Tho  word  so  rendcro!  is  iarhataih.  Ia  the  Lexicon  of  Bulitliugk  aiA  Balk, 
#.».,  Us  smus  it  mid  to  be  duublful.  Pmfwanr  Web»r  (lad.  St.  t.  178  ff.  where 
ifc—  ywnm,  with  the  rort  of  th*  hrma  in  which  th«y  occur,  U  tranilated  sod  um- 
lotcd)  rasdtn  it  " laity  ones"  (Exhabcne).  LangloU  make*  it  "  orcnoen."  Ths 
ntooo  U  enratinned  spun  in  verses  18  and  10.  In  B.V  »iii.  71,  »,  Soma  tpackliog 
ia  ih*  cnpi  is  compared  to  th>   i  faf  on  tht  waters  (y  *p*n  «A*wiww»ia|  km 

mm/  eJutmuti*  ioini,  |  ptU  id  atya  learn  Maty  8*  Profcawc  Beafirj'a  note  oa 
B.V.  x.  M,  If,  >n  hi*  Orii  nt  uid  Occident,  ii.  248. 

***  Wcbcr  and  Laogloix  take  noMt  for  s  Domuutir«.  Buhllingk  and  Roth  cits 
tho  passage  undar  mu,  thu*  nuking  it  a  gtniUTS, 


272 


SECTION   XVII. 


BKIHASPATI  AND  IMAHMAXASrATf. 


I  wQl  oommcDoe  my  description  of  this  god  with  a  translation  of  the 

account  given  of  him  in  Bbhtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon  :  "  Brihaspati, 

•tlcniAting  with  Brahmanaspati,  is  the  name  of  a  deity  in  whom  the 

tcrtkxi  of  the  worshipper  upon  the  gods  is  personified.     He  is  the 

Mbfdiant,  the  sacrificcr,  the  priest,  who  intercedes  with  the  gods  on 

Viliilf  of  men,  and   protect)  thorn  against  the  wicked.      Hence  be 

q^irtn  as  the  prototype  of  tho  priests,  and  the  priestly  order ;  and  i» 

at*>  designated  as  tho  purobita  of  the  divine  community."  The  ancient 

l«4ua  conception  of  this  deity  is  more  fully  explained  in  Protestor 

-  dissertation  on  "Brahma  and  tho  Brahmans,"  •■•  in  tha  first 

whittle  of  llie  Journal  of  tho  German  Oriental   8ociety,  pp.  66  ft, 

*«*r»  the  author  well  points  out  the  essential  difference  between  tho 

original  idea  rrpreaented  in  this  god  and  those  expressed  in  most  of  the 

ulker  and  older  divinities  of  the  Veda,  consisting  in  tho  fact  that  the 

WUor   are  personifications  of  various  departments  of  nature,  <ir  -f 

^h<ttiv*l  forces,  while  the  former  is  the  product  of  moral  ideas,  and 

aa  impersonation  of  the  power  of  devotion.     From  this  paper  I  ex- 

tho  following  remarks:  "Brahma,  on  the  other  hand  fin  cob* 

turn  to  deva],  has  an  entirely  different  point  of  departure, 

-Aid  «i|[uLficuncc.     Its  original  sense,  as  easily  discovered  in  the  Tedk 

.,  is  that  of  prtiyer ;  not  praise  or  thanksgiving,  hut  that  specie* 

..4  invention  which,  with  tho  force  of  the  will  direetcd  to  the  ged, 

d--sirea  In  diaw  him  to  the  worshipper,  and  to  obtain  satisfaction  from 

, ■•.,       II  denotes  the  impetuous  supplication  which  was  natural  to  that 

vtvivMt  faith,  and  which  sought,  oa  it  were,  to  wrest  from  the  god  the 

«•  furtMw  »f  ttiw  p-pct  w«re  teag  ago  trsmktcd  by  me  to  tas  fti—rei  Maganaa, 


lUtMASPATI  AXD  BUAlIMANASPATi. 


273 


boon  which  it  demanded"  (p.  67).  "  Immediately  derived  from  thl* 
muter  noun  brahma  is  the  name  of  the  god  Brahmarjaspati,  win  is.  in 
many  respects,  u  remarkable  deity.  His  entire  character  is  6uch  as 
does  not  belong  to  the  curliest  stage  of  the  Yedii:  uivilur.il  <  nations, 
but  points  to  a  second  shape  which  the  rcli::  MM  cn- 

ivourcd  to  Like,  wirlmut,  however,  being  able  nctually  to  carry  it 
fully  into  effect     The  entire  series  of  the  principal  di--  |  the 

Veda  belongs  to  the  domain  of  natural  symbolism,  w  iicro 

more  decided,  unmix-.'  1,  and  transparent  than  perhaps  among  any  Ql 
people  of  the  Indo-germanio  race,  but  which,  on  this  account,  is  ulso 
loss  rich  in  references  to  other  departments  of  life,  and  has  n  | 
able  to  get  beyond  s  certain  uniformity.  Hut  Brahmaitn«|inii  in  ami  of 
the  divine  beings  who  do  not  stand  immediately  within  the  circle  of 
physical  life,  but  form  the  transition  from  it  to  the  moral  life  of  tho 
human  spirit  In  him,  the  lord  or  protector  of  prayer,  is  seen  tho 
power  nnd  dignity  of  devotion,  the  energetic  action  of  the  will  upon 
the  gods  who  are  the  personifications  of  notural  objects,  and  im- 
mediately upon  nature.  And  it  may  still  bo  plainly  perceived  in 
what  manner  this  god,  as  a  new-comer,  was  introduced  into  the  circle 
of  mythological  beings  already  est  mul  could  only  find  a  place 

by  the  side  of  the  other  gods,  or  by  supplanting  them.40' 

"  Indra  is  the  highest  god  of  the  Vedic  fuith,  or,  at  least,  the  one 
whose  action  lias  the  most  immediate  bearing  on  the  welfare  of  BMfa 
Hs  it  the  god  of  the  friendly  noon -day  firmament,  which,  after  all 
obscuration*,  ngnin  shine*  anow,  on  which  the  fertility  of  tho  earth 
and  the  tranquility  and  enjoyment  of  human  existence  depend.  And 
the  prayer  which  mo«t  frequently  recurs  in  tho  Veda,  and  is  addressed 
hi  Indrs,  is  that  he  will  eoi;  tempts  of  tho  clot: 

who  threatens  to  carry  away  the  fertilizing  wuters  of  tho  sky,  or  hold* 
them  ihut  np  in  the  caverns  of  the  mountain),  will  pour  forth  those 
waters,  fertilize  the  earth,  and  bestow  nourishment  on  men  and  cattle. 
Now.  if  the  essence  of  the  god  Brahmarjaspati  really  expresses,  o>  I 
nasi'  -victorious  power  of  prayer,  then  wo  should  find  him 

in  this  circle  of  myths,  more  than  in  any  other.     And  in  point  of  fact 


•**  "All  tke  rod*  »SMC  names  sro  cnmimurwled  »ilh  pxti  ('lord  of'—)  nasi  bo 
reckoned  arenas  ih*  more  recent,  1 4.  Yicbsfpati,  Vistoshpaw,  Kafcctraijrc  psti.  Tb*T 
wars  the  pnxJstt*  of  reir  > 

IS 


274     TEXTS  EELATI.YG  TO  BHIUASrATI  ANT.  I:P.  AH  W  ANASPATI. 

he  does  appear  along  with  Indra  in  that  conflict  of  his  against  thi 
fiend,  and  that  too  in  such  a  way  that  a  department  of  labour  u 
assigned  to  him,  which,  in  moat  of  the  other  hymns,  is  appropriated 
exclusively  to  lnilra.  And,  finally,  in  some  few  passages,  it  is  bt 
who,  nil  alone,  breaks  through  the  caverns  of  Bala,  in  order  to  brio} 
to  light  the  concealed  treasures  of  the  fertilizing  water,  or,  acoordinz 
to  the  figurative,  language  employed,  the  cows  with  abundant  milk  " 
(pp.  71  ff.). 

After  quoting  H.V.  ii.  24,  3  f.  (which  will  be  cited  below)  Profcamr 
Both  proceeds:  "It  is  therefore  brahms,  prayer,  with  which  the  god 
breaks  open  the  hiding  place  of  the  enemy.  Prayer  pierces  through  to 
the  object  of  iu  desire,  and  attains  it.  Ard  if  now  we  should  •ttk 
to  discover,  in  the  mlural  phenomenon  to  which  reference  u  mads, 
viz.,  in  the  atom,  that  force  which  so  mightily  breaks  through  Um 
hostilo  bulwarks,  it  is  the  lightning  alone  which  can  be  the  outward 
symbol  of  the*  :;<d.     Brahmanaspati  is,  therefore,  called  the 

•  shining,'  the  '  gold-coloured '  (y.  43,  1 2).  The  thunder  is  his  voice'' 
(p.  74).  Again  :  "  Brahraaouspati's  domain  extends  still  further;  it 
reaches  m  far  as  the  efficacy  of  invocation.  Ho  succours  also  in 
battle  (II.  V.  vi.  73,  2) "  (p.  74).  "And,  finaUy,  a  widely  extended 
mutive  power  is  ascribed  to  him  in  the  remarkable  verses  of  a  hymn  of 
tho  tenth  mondola  (68,  8  ff.)  attributed  to  Ayasya  of  the  ram  of 
Angiraa"(p.  75). 


(1)  Patiaget  in  tchieh  Brihaspati  and  lirahmanatpati  art  celebrated. 


I  subjoin  one  entire  hymn  and  portions  of  some  others,  which  will 
illustrate  the  characteristics  ascribed  to  Brahmagaspati  in  the  Big- 
veda,  and  will  shew  how  that  name  alternates  with  Brihaspati  in 
different  verses  of  the  same  composition. 

R  V.  Li.  23,1.  GaniinAm  Ivu  g.in.ipatim  htttilntah* kavim  kaclmlm  upama- 
iraiattomam  \  jynhfharAjam  brahmanum  brithmananpalt  a  nah  ifinran* 
Maya  tltla  tadanatn  |  2.  Dnai  chit  It  aturya  prachttato  BfiJuupatt  yajni- 
yam  hhtigam  dnaiuh  \  utrdh  rrri  nCiryo  ji/otiths  aiaho  vihethunt  ij  jiinitd 
brahmandm  ati  \  3.  A  rihddhya  parirapaa  tamCiuui  chn  jyotuhmaniam  ra- 
(ham  ritatya  ttih\hati  \  tirihatpnU  bhlmam  amitradambhanaA  raluhohancm 


TEXTS  RELATING  TO  DKlOASrATI  AND  KRMIMANasI'ATI.     275 


qotrabhidam  nartidam  |  4.  Smitibhir  nayati  trdyau  janam  y/u  tubh- 
yam  diiioi  na  tarn  aetho  abiaeat  |  brahntadtiihtu  tapano  manyvmir  att 
BfihatpaU   mahi   (at  ti  mahitranam  |     5.  Na  tarn  amAo  na  duritam 
kutaiehana  n&rAltya*  titirur  na  drayAcinah  \  liifCh  id  amnAd  dhiartuo 
pi  bddhatt  yam  tngopdh   r.iLAati  BrahmmatpaU  |  G.  Dram  no  yopAh 
pathikrid  cickaltfiana*  lata  rratdya  malibhir  jariimake  \  Brihaipatt  yo 
no  abhi  Aiaro  dadht  ltd  (am  marmarlu  duchAunA  Aaranaii  |   7.  Ula  va 
yo  no  marchayuJ  andgaso  ar  At  Jed  martah   sAiiuko  tjHak  \  BrihatpaU 
apa  tarn  tartaya  pathah  sugaiii  no  atyai  devarUaye  kndAi  |   8.  TrAbiram 
ltd  lanimim  Attiamaht  atotpartar  adAicaklAram  aumayum  |  Brihatpatr 
dftantdo    m    larhtiya     mil    durrrdh    vftaram    $umnam    un    naian    |    9 
(— .Nir.  iii.  11).    Tragi  eayam  wrridhd   BrahmanatpaU  tpdrAd   iatu 
manuthyA  A  dad 1 mahi  |  yAh  no  dart  tafito  ydh  arAlayo  abhi  tanti  jam- 
bhaya  Idh  anapnotah  |    10.  TtayA  tayam  ultammm  dAtmaht  eayo  Bfihai- 
pad  paprind  »atninA  yuja  |  ma  no  duitaimo  abhidipiur  liata  pra  tuiam- 
uJk  matibhii  tdriihimahi  |    11.  Ananudo  rriihabho  jagnir  Aharam  ni$h- 
fapla  iatrum  prilanuiu  HlwAih   |   ati  tatyah  riaayAk  Brahna^atpatt 
vgratya  chid  damitd  ri lukarihinah  |    12.  Adevena  tnanand  yo  rithyanyati 
iaiAm  ugro  manyamdnc  jiyhdmiati  |  Briha*pat«  ma  pranal  taiya  no 
xadho  mi  karma  man  yum   dummy  a  lardhatah  |    13.   Bkarahu  haeyo 
nawuuopatadyo  gun  la  tajeihm  tanitd  dhanam   dhanam  |  tiiiAh  id  arya 
abhidiptto  mridko  Brihaspatir  vi  ratorha  rathdn  ir*  |   H.  TtjitJifhayd 
tapanl  raX*ha*a*  tap*  yt  US  nide  dadAirt  dritkfatlryam  |  Sri*  tat  kjUhra 
yad  atai  U  uktAyam  BrihatpaU  ti  parirapo  ardttya  |    15.  BrihatpaU  alt 
yad  aryo  arhAd  dyumad  tibhAti  kratumaf  jarutku  |  yad  dldayat  iataaS 
fxlaprajAla  tad  otmAtu  drarinam  dhrhi  chit  ram  |    16.  J/rl  nab  »ttn*bhyo 
y*  abhi  druhat  pad*  nirumimo  riparo  'nnnhujagridAuh  \  d  davAnAm  oAata 
titrayo  hridi  llrihaipaU  na  par  ah  idmno  tiduhi  \    17.   Viittbhyo  hi  tei 
bhuranebhyat  pari  'J\aih(A   'Janat  tumnuk   tamnnh  katih  \   ta  ri*iicAtd 
rinayAh  Brahawnatpatir   drvho   hanta    mahoh    rilaxya    dAarlari  |    18. 
Tar  a  iriya   r»  ajiAlta  parvato  garam  yotram  udatrijo  yad  Angirah  | 
lndreaa  yujd  tamtud  paritritam  Bp'batpaia  nir  apdm  aubjo  arnavam  | 
19.  Brahmanatpata  team  atya  yanU  tiktatyt  bodhi  tanayam  (ha  jmta  | 
riiraA  tad  bhadram  yad  atanti  derdh  brihad  radema  vidathe  nirtrdh  | 

Although  the  translation  which  1  subjoin  is  very  imperfect,  and  I 
am  uncertain  ft*  to  the  tense  of  manr  words  and  phrases  occurring,  in 
it,  the  gouend  sense  is  clear  and  undoubted  j 


270     TEST8  RELATING  TO  BBMASPATI  AND  BRAHMAN  ASP  ATI. 

"  Wc  invoke  thee,  Bruhmnnaspati,  the  commander  of  licet*,***  tie 
tho  most  highly  renowned  of  sages,  the  monarch  of  pnrjrn; 
do  thou  hear  us,  and  tukc  thy  place  on  oar  hearth,  bringing  saoevnr. 
2.  Etch  the  gods  havo,  o  divine  BrLU  tspati,  obtained  the  worshipful 
portion  of  thee,  who  art  wine :  at  the  great  sua  by  his  light  gcuerake 
ray*,  so  nrt  thou  the  generator  of  all  prayer*.  3.  Overcoming  demon* 
and  darkness,  thou  stnndest  upon  the  luminous,  awful,  foe-suhduht;, 
ndcshas-alaying,  cow-pen-cleaving,  heaven  reaching,  chariot  of  Ibe 
ceremonial.  4.  Hy  thy  wise  guidance  thou  Icadcet  and  preacrest 
men ;  no  calamity  can  befal  him  who  offers  gifts  to  the* ;  than  eeuet, 
and  oreroomest  the  wrath  of,  the  enomy  of  devotion ;  this,  o  I 
pati,  constitutes  thy  greatness.  6.  No  calamity  or  misfortune  from 
any  quarter,  neither  foes  nor  deceivers,  can  overwhelm  the  roan— 
(jlnni  repcllcat  from  him  all  evil  spirit?) — whom  thou,  a  sure  pro' 
dost  guard,  o  Brukuiuijaopati.  6.  Thou  art  tho  wise  guardian  who  opens 
for  us  a  way;  with  hymns  wc  pay  homage  to  thy  sovereign  power. 
Hrihnspotf,  may  his  own  hot  ill  luck  destroy  the  roan  who  devise*  evil 
against  us.  7.  WhutcwT  hostilo  mortal,  powerful  *•*  and  rapacious 
assails  us  who  are  innocent,  do  thou,  Brihaspati,  turn  him  away  (root 
our  path,  and  enable  us  easily  tn  reach  tho  feast  of  the  gods.  8.  We 
invoke  thee,  o  deliverer,  who  art  the  protector  of  our  bodies,  and  OUT 
partial  patron;  destroy,  o  Brihaspati,  the  revilera  of  the  gods  ;  1 
the  wicked  attain  high  prosperity.  9.  May  we  through  thee,  ev 
prosperer,  o  Bnihiiinrjaspati,  ucnuiro  enviable  riches  profitable  for  meo. 
Crush  tho  foes,  whether  for  or  near,  who  assail  us  [and  make  them] 
destitute.  10.  Through  thec,  o  Brihaspati,  a  liberal  and  generous 
!,  may  we  obtain  tin.'  highest  rigour.  Let  not  our  malicious 
enemy  gain  the  mastery  over  us;  may  wo  who  arc  friendly  in  our 
intentions  overcome  them  by  our  hymns.  11.  Stubborn,  strong,  be 
enters  into  the  battle,  be  vexes  the  foe,  he  overpowers  him  in  conflict. 
Thou,  Brahmagnsputi,  art  a  real  avenger  of  guilt,  a  sobdaer  even  of 

nently  passionate  man.  12.  Let  us  not  be  i 
by  the  shaft  of  tho  man  who,  with  ungodly  mind,  seek*  to  inj<; 
who,  eskeming  himself  ficroe,  Becks  to  slay  (any  of  thy)  worshippers; 


*"*  Compare  ttrragana  in  v.  61,  12. 

•**  tSatmka  a  MviucAAnrit,  according  to  Sayasja. 


TESTS  RELATING  TO  hRIEASPATI  AND  BBAHMANASrATI.     277 


we  repel  tho  rage  of  the  presumptuous  and  malicious  man.  13. 
Brihaspati,  who  is  to  be  invoked  in  buttled,  to  be  worshipped  with 
reverence,  who  frequents  conflicts,  who  bestows  all  our  wealth,  has 
overturned  like  chariots  ull  the  malicious  enemies  who  seek  to  wrong 
us.  14.  Consume  with  thy  sharpest  burning  bolt  the  rakshascs  who  have 
mocked  at  thee,  whose  prowess  is  well  proved ;  manifest  that  power  of 
thine  which  shall  be  deserving  of  praise ;  destroy  the  demons.  15. 
Urihospati,  whoso  essence  is  sacred  truth,  bestow  upon  us  that  brilliant 
wealth  which  shall  excel  that  of  our  foe,  which  nppoars  brilliant,  and 
possesses  strength,  which  shines  with  power.  16.  Do  not  (abandon) 
na  to  the  robbers  who  hold  the  position  of  our  assailants,  persistent 
enemies,  who  greedily  desire  our  food;— such  a  man  in  his  henrt 
coolemphitt*  the  iiljiiinloniM&t  of  tho  gods;  — they  do  not,  o  Lri- 
haspati,  know  tho  excellence  of  the  saman.  17.  For  Tvashtfi,  who 
knows  all  soman- verses,  has  generated  thee  to  be  above  all  bang*. 
B.'ii.ta  njnspati  is  the  avenger  and  punisher  of  guilt,  the  slayer  of  the 
injurious  nun  in  the  interest  of  the  upholder  of  the  groat  ceremonial. 
18.  When  thou,  Angirus,  didst  open  up  tho  cow-pen,  tho  mountain 
■  1  to  thy  glory;  with  Indra  as  thine  ally,  thou,  Brihaapati, didst 
let  loose  the  stream  of  tho  waters,  which  had  boon  covered  with  dark- 
ness. 19.  liruhmanospati,  thou  art  its  controller;  tako  notice  of  our 
hymn  and  prosper  our  offspring;  all  that  the  gods  protect  is  successful. 
May  we,  bleat  with  strong  men,  speak  with  power  at  the  festival." 

R.T.  ii.  24,  I.  Semiim  atiddhi  prahhnlim  yah  liiihi  mya  ridhrmm 
tucaya  tnakd  gira  \  yatlA  no  mtdhcan  ttacaU  takha  taca  Briha.-paU 
ilikadhah  iota  no  natim  |  2.  ¥b  nmtvtini  anamad  ni  ojaiC  tttudardar 
manyuna  iambardni  ri  \  praehyiltayad  achyutil  Biahmanaipatir  a  thtU 
iiiad  ranmantafn  ri  parvatam  |  3.  Tad  dtttindm  dnttam&ya  karftam 
airalkram  dfilkd  atradanta  rl/iVd  J  ud  ydh  ajad  abhinad  bmhmanu  valan 
ayihat  tamo  ri  achaltthayat  nah  |  -4  (■  Nir.  x.  13).  Aimiiiyinn  avatam 
L'rakmaitatpatir  madhudharam  abhi  yam  ojata  'trimit  |  Urn  era  vih* 
papirt  aeardn'U  bahu  tukaih  sisiekur  item  udrinam  |  ....  8.  liiUjytna 
kthiprtna  Bralmagatpatir  yatra  vathfi  pra  tad  abtoii  dhanvamd  |  tatya 
iddhelr  uKato  y&bhir  aiyati  nnchahhato  dniaye  karnayonayah  \ 

1.  "Do  thou  who  rules  t  receive  this  our  offering  [of  praise];  lot  us 
worship  thee  with  this  new  and  grand  song;  as  thy  bountiful  friend 
among  us  celebrates  thee,  do  thou  also,  Brihaspati,  fulfil  our  den 


278     TEXTS  RELATING  TO  BRIUASPATI  AXD  BRAHMANASPATI. 


Brahmaijaspati,  who  by  bia  power  brought  low  the  things  which  shoald 
be  overthrown,  and  by  his  wrath  split  open  the  clouds,  has  also  cast 
down  the  things  which  were  unshaken,  ho  has  penetrated  the  moontata 
u-likh  wo*  full  of  riches,  3.  This  was  an  exploit  fit  for  the  most 
godlike  of  the  gods  to  achieve ;  firm  things  were  loosened,  and  strosg 
things  yielded  to  him  ;  he  drove  forth  the  cows,  by  prayer  he  split 
Vala,  he  chased  away  the  darkness,  and  revealed  the  sky.*"  4.  Ail 
the  celestials  drank  of  the  stone-covered  fountain,  yielding  a  sweat 
stream,  which  Brahmanaspati  split  open  ;  they  poured  out  together  an 
abundant  supply  of  water.  ....  8.  Wherever  Brahmanaspati  desires, 
thither  he  reaches  with  his  well-stringed,  swift-darting  bow.  Excel- 
lent are  his  arrows  wherewith  he  shoots  j  they  are  keen-eyed  to  hchold 
men,  and  draw  a  buck  to  the  ear." 

fcr.  50,  1.  Yat  Uutambha  tahaiA  rijmo  ant&n  Bfihatpatu  triikaiatUm 
ravena  |  Urn  pratndtak  fttkayo  iidhy&nih  puro  tipr&k  dadkire  wtandra- 
fihvam  |  4.  Brikatpatih  prathamaih  j&yam&no  make  jyetiikak  param* 
ryoman  \  napttityaj  iuvijaio  rarena  vi  laplaraimir  adkanat  tam&im  | 
fi.  So  siuhfubhii  »a  fihvatu  ganina  Valain  rurojo  pkaiigam  ravrna  |  Bfi- 
hatpaltr  utriyuh  kavyasHdah  kanikradad  vdvaiatir  uduj'at  |  6.  Eta  pxtrr 
vtitadevSyn  vjriifau  yajnair  tidhtma  namaia  katirbkik  |  Brikatpat*  i%- 
prajtik  tlravanto  ray  am  synma  patayo  raytndm  |  7.  Sit  id  raja  prolyl*- 
yOni  riitit  iushmena  totthav  ahhi  virytna  \  Brihaspatith  yak 
bibharti  valguyati  tandate pHrvabkiljam  \ 

"  I.  Contemplating  Brihaapati  with  the  pleasant  tongne,  who 
jiieo  three  abodes,  and  by  his  power  and  his  voice  holds  apart  the  ends 
of  the  earth,  the  ancient  rishis  placed  him  in  their  front.  .  . .  .  4.' 
Brihaapati,  when  first  born  from  the  great  light  in  the  highest  heaven, 
teven-fuced,  mighty  in  nature,  seven-rayed,  blew  asunder  the  darkness 
with  his  voice.  '•>■  With  the  lauding,  hymning  band  he  by  his  voice 
broke  through  Vala,  the  cloud.  Brihaapati,  shouting,  drove  forth  the 
)i!itti<r-yii'lding,  loudly-lowing  cows.  6.  Thus  let  us  worship  tho  vigorous 
lather,  who  is  possessed  of  all  divine  attributes,  with  sacrifices,  and 
reverence,  and  oblations.  May  we,  Brihaspati,  have  abundant  off- 
spring, vigorous  sons,  and  be  lords  of  riches.     7.  That  king  who  main- 


z 


■  Thi*  and  thn  f,-,llowinir  rorss  art  tremlntrd  in  p.  73  of  th*  artids  of  Profs 
Roth,  quoted  at  the  commencement  of  lhi»  icctmn. 

«*  Vom  4  IT.  arc  translated  by  Proftewr  Rvtb  ia  pp.  70  f.  of  Um  snick  owtsd 
si  the  beginning  of  this  section. 


TEXTS  RELATING  TO  BRIBASPAT1  AND  BRAHMANASPAT1.     27<J 


tains  Brihaspuli  in  abundance,  who  praises  and  magnifies  him  u  (a 
deity)  entitled  to  the  first  distinction,  overcomes  all  hostile  powers  bj 
his  force  and  valour." 

x.  C8,  6.  i'ada  Valatya  plyato  jasum  bhii  Brihatpatir  agnitepobhir 
arkaih  |   dadbKir  ns  jihvu.  paricitJifam  ddad  6tir  nidhln  alrinod  utri- 

y<J«u/»i  |    7 uadtra  bhiltvu  iakuncuya  yarbham  ud  usriyah  parrtt- 

tatya  tmanil  "fat  |  8  (—  Jfir.  x.  1'2).  Ainipinaddham  madlu  part/  apai- 
yad  maUf/ttk  na  dine  udani  kthiyantam  \  nith  faj  jabhGra  chamaiatii  na 
vrikthnd  Brihatpatir  ciratena  vikritya  |  9.  Sothutn  atindat  tak  ttah  to 
Aymm  to  arktna  vi  babadhe  (amAfnti  \  Brihatpatir  yovaputho  Valatya 
nir  nwjy'anaih  na  parvano  jabhnra  | 

"  When  Brihaspati  clove  with  fiery  gleams  the  defences  of  the  ma- 
lignant Vala,  as  the  tongue  devours  that  which  has  Seen  enveloped  by 
the  teeth,  he  revealed  the  treasures  of  the  cows.  7. ...  As  if  splitting 
open  eggs,  the  productions  of  a  bird,  ho  by  his  own  power  drove  out 
the  cows  from  the  mountain.  8.  Ho  beheld  the  sweet  liquid  en- 
veloped by  rock,  liko  a  fish  swimming  in  shallow  water  j  Brihaspati 
brought  it  out,  like  a  spoon  from  a  tree,  having  cloven  (Vahi)  with  his 
about.  9.  He  discovered  the  Dawn,  the  Sky,  Agni ;  with  his  gleam 
he  chased  away  the  darkness;  Brihaspati  smote  forth,  as  it  wen,  t i i ■  ■ 
marrow  from  the  joints  of  Vala,  who  had  assumed  the  form  of  a  bull." 

i.  40,  5.  Pra  nunam  Brahtnanaxpatir  mantram  radati  uklhyntn  |  ya$- 
tninn  Indro  r'aruno  3fi!r»  AryamA  tUoAh  okdmti  (hakrirt  \  6.  Tarn  id 
WBltwtg  tidalhcthu  iantbhui-am  numtraih  devah  aruhausn  |  "  6.  Brah- 
mugnspati  now  utters  a  laudatory  hymn,  in  which  Indro,  Yoruna, 
Ultra,  the  gods,  have  taken  up  their  abode.  6.  This  spotless  hymn, 
bringing  good  fortune,  may  we,  o  gods,  utter  on  the  festival*."  "" 

i.  191),  1.  AnarrAnaw  cnt/kibham  mandrajihvam  Brihatpali&i  tardhaya 
m  arkaih  |  gtitJianyah  turutho  yaiya  jltil  uiriwcanli  itatautdmuya 
ntatluh  |  2.  Tarn  ritnynh  upa  vAchah  taehantt  taryo  yo  na  dttayatAm 
atarji  |  •'  1.  Mugnify  Brihuspati,  the  irresistible,  the  vigorous,  the 
pleasant- ton g iicd,  who  ought  to  be  praised  with  hymns,  a  shining 
leader  of  songs  to  whom  both  gods  aud  men  listen  when  hu  utters 

•*•  la  th«  disMrUtJon  quoted  above,  p.  74,  Professor  Roth  remarks  oo  Uieaa 
iwnm:  "The  thuudrr  i>  his  (Branniagaipati'j)  Toioe.  TUm  vr.it*  of  tbandtr,  again, 
as  lbs  votes  of  the  superintendent  of  prayer,  is  by  s  beautiful  transference  brought 
iniA  eonaNlioa  with  the  prayer  which,  epoken  on  cirth,  fad*,  u  it  w«c,  Ms  ecu* 
to  thu  litiglit*  of  ben- 1 


280       ATTRIBUTES  OP  BRIDASPATI  AND   BRAIIMAXASPATI. 

praise.  2.  To  him  proceed  wvll-ordercd  worde,  like  a.  etrcam  of 
devout  rneu  which  has  been  set  in  motion," 

v.  13,  12.  A  udhatam  nlhprithlham  brihtntam  Driha>jta(im  §sitm 
tadayodktam  \  sddadyonm  dam«  a  didit&mtaih  K>rany<icarn*m  *ru*l*m 
uptma  |  "  Seat  on  tho  sacrificial  ground  the  wi*e,  the  dark-backed, 
the  mighty  Kr ihaapati.  Let  us  reverence  tho  golden-hued  ruddy  god 
who  sit*  on  our  hearth,  who  shines  in  our  house." 

z.  98,  7.  Ihrasrutam  rrn/i(tvam>k  raruno  Brihctpatir  riieham  asmi 
tytehhat  |  "  lirihaspati,  fulfilling  (his  desire),  gave  him  (Dcvipi)  a 
hymn  seeking  for  rain,  which  the  gods  heard." 


(2)  r<iren(aye  and  attributrt  of  the  god. 


Brahmana'piili,  or  Brilioapati,  appears  to  be  described  in  rii.  97,  8, 
as  the  offspring  of  the  two  Worlds,  who  magnified  him  by  their  power 
(eVtl  detuiya  rodail  janitrl  Jlrihmpalim  rat  ridhetur  mahi(fu) ;  whilst 
in  ii.  23,  17,  he  is  said  to  have  been  generated  by  TVushtri  (see  abore}. 
He  is  called  a  print,  x.  HI,  3  {hrahmiinam  cfm  Brifmi/.-utim) ,  it 
associated  with  the  Itikrons,  or  singers  (rii.  10,  4 ;  X.  H,  8;  cempare 
X.  36,  6;  x.  64,  4) ;  is  denominated  an  inglraM  (iv.  40,  1  ;  vi.  73,  1; 
x.  -17,  6);  is  tho  generator,  the  utterer,  the  lord,  the  inspirer,  of  pray«r 
(ii.  S3,  1,  "J  ;  i.  40,  5 ;  x.  08,  7),  who  by  prayer  aceompliahea  his  de- 
signs (ii.  24,  3),  and  mounting  the  shining  und  awful  chariot  of  the 
louial,  proceeds  to  conquer  the  enemies  of  prayer  and  of  the  gods 
(ii.  23,  8  f.,  8).  Ho  is  the  guide,  patron,  and  protector  of  the  pices, 
who  are  saved  by  him  from  all  dangers  and  calamities  (ibid,  verses 
4  ft);  and  are  blessed  by  him  with  wealth  bdi!  prosperity  (ibid.  9  f.). 
He  is  styled  llie  father  of  the  pods,  ii.  26,  3  (dnOnSm  j>itara< 
said  to  have  Mown  forth  the  births  of  the  gods  like  a  blacksmith  (are 
above,  p.  48);  to  be  possessed  of  all  divine  attributes,  riiraaVcya,  or 
rtfraaVa  (iii.  62,  4  ;  iv.  50,  6);  bright,  iuchi  (iii.  62,  5;  vii.  B 
pure,  iundhyu  (vii.  !)7,  7) ;  ommxorui,  vii\-<ir<ipa  (iii.  62,  6) ;  poaseesed 
of  all  desirable  things,  tikwira  (vii  10,  4 ;  vii.  07,  4) ;  to  hnv*  a 
hundred  wings,  httpatn  (vii.  97,  7) ;  to  carry  a  golden  spear,  hint 
yacHil  (ibid. ;  compare  ii.  24,  8,  where  a  bow  and  arrows  are  assigned 
to  him) ;  to  be  a  devourcr  of  enemies,  tfitralhuda  (x.  65,  10 :  corn  p. 
vi.  73,  3);  a  leader  of  armies  along  with  Indm,  etc.,  Indrah 


ABB  BRIQASPATI  ANT  BBASMAB&BPAXI  NAMES  OF  AQM?     281 

tuta  lirihiiipiilir  Dnhlind  (x.  103,  8),  and  armed  with  an  iron  axe, 
which  Tvushtri  sharpens,  ii&Ue  nanam  paraiuifi  n&yatait  yma  vr&eh&i 
eUdo  Brahmanupttih  (x.  53,  9) ;  clear- voiced,  iuehikranda  (vii.  97,  5); 
a  prolongcr  of  life,  prataritd  'ai  Syuthah  (s.  100,  fi) ;  a  remover  of 
disease,  amlrahd  (i.  18,  2)  ;  opulent,  mat,  raeurit ;  an  increase*  of 
the  means  of  subsistence,  puthficardhana  (i.  18,  2).  Flnnts  are  said 
to  apring  from  him,  y«'A  eshadhlh  ....  Mrihatpaliprtuatah  (x.  97,  15, 
19).  He  is  eaid  in  one  place  to  be  conveyed  by  easy-going  ruddy  horses, 
la*  iagm&u  amahSeo  aitah  Brihatpatim  taharaho  tahenti  (rii.  07, 6). 

In  one  place  he  is  taid  to  have  heard  th«  cries  of  Triti,  who  had 
been  thrown  into  a  well  and  was  calling  on  the  gods,  and  to  havo 
rescued  him  from  his  perilous  position,  i.  10.5,  17  {Tritak  kiipt  or  ah  it  o 
detSn  havatt  ataye  \  tat  suirdra  Brihespadh  krigvann  aihhQrandd  urv). 

Hla  exploits  in  the  way  of  destroying  Vala,  and  carrying  oh*  the 
heavenly  kinc,  or  releasing  the  imprisoned  waters  of  the  sky. 
been  sufficiently  explained,  in  the  «iuotntion  I  have  made  nbovc  from 
rrvfcaaor  Roth's  Essay,  as  well  as  in  the  texts  which  have  been  trans- 
lated. Ho  is  further,  as  wo  have  seen,  described  as  holding  usutidcr 
the  ends  of  the  earth  (it.  50,  I). 

(3)  Whether  Brihatpali  and  Brahmanaepati  are  identifiable  tcith  Agni. 

Brahman  sspati  and  Brihnspati  arc  regarded  as  names  of  Agni  by 
M.  Langlois,  in  his  translation  of  the  Rig-reda,  vol.  L  p.  249  (note  36), 
p.  254  (note  83),  p.  578  (note  1),  and  index,  vol.  iv.,  under  the 
word*."*  Professor  Wilson  also,  in  the  introduction  to  the  1st  vol. 
of  bis  translation,  p.  xxxvii ,  writes  as  follows:  "  Brahmarjaspati, 
also,  as  far  as  we  can  make  out  his  character  from  the  occasional 
stanzas  addressed  to  him,  seems  to  bo  identifiable  with  Agni,  with  the 
nal  attribute  of  presiding  over  prayer.  The  characteristic  pro- 
perties of  this  divinity,  however,  aro  not  very  distinctly  developed  in 
this  portion  of  the  Veda"  (aee  also  the  notes  in  pp.  41,  111,  112). 
In  the  introduction  to  his  second  volume,  p.  ix.  however,  Pre: 
Wilson  aays  that,  a*  described  in  the  2nd  ashfaka  of  the  B. V.,  Brihas- 
pati,  "when  treated  of  separately,  is  identical  with  Indra,  by  his 
attribute*  of  sending  rain  (p.  19y)  and  wielding  the  thunderbolt  (p. 

•*  M.  Langlois  «pclU  Brihu|Mii,  Vrihuputi. 


282     ARE  BR1HASPATI  AND  BBAHMANASPATI  NAMES  OF  AG51  f 


284) ;  but  ho  is  hymned  indiscriminately  with  Brahmagaspoii,  who  is 
styled  the  lord  of  the  Gagas,  or  companies  of  divinities,  and  also,  whick 
|l  in  harmony  with  hia  former  character,  chief  or  most  excellent  loti 
of  mantras  or  prayers  of  tbo  Vcdas  (p.  262) ;  he  also,  in  some  of  kit 
attributes,  as  those  of  dividing  the  clouds,  and  sending  rain,  and  re- 
covering the  stolon  kine  (p.  268)  is  identical  with  Iodra,  although  with 
some  inconsistency  he  is  spoken  of  as  distinct  from,  although  associate! 
with,  him  (p.  270) ;  bat  this  may  be  a  misconception  of  the  scholiast, 
etc."  Finally,  Professor  Miillcr  (Transl.  of  H.V.  i.  77)  states  his  opiniu 
Uiut  "  Hrohmarjaapati  and  Brihaepati  axe  both  varieties  of  Apni,  the 
priest  and  purokitn  of  gods  and  men,  and  as  such  ho  is  invoked 
together  with  the  Maruts,  etc.,"  as  he  had  previously  remarked  that 
Ajrni  also  is.  The  verso  to  which  this  note  refers,  H.V.  i.  38,  13,  is 
as  follows  :  achha  vada  tana  yird  jarayai  brahman*  <patm  agniiit  mtirtm 
na  dariiilam,  which  Professor  ilullor  renders  thus:  "Speak  out  for 
over  with  thy  voice  to  praise  the  lord  of  prayer,  Agni,  who  is  like  a 
friend,  the  bright  one." 

This  identification,  in  the  strict  sense,  of  Brahmonaspati  with 
is  supported  by  some  texts,  but  opposed  to  others.    Of  the 
class  nre  the  following : 

ii.  1,  3.  7ham  Agni  Indro  vrukabkak  uttam  at*  Ham  Vuhnitr  i 
nanuuyah  |  team  brnhmu  rayivid  brahmancupate  |  "Thou,  Agni,  art 
Indru,  the  most  vigorous  of  the  good ;  tbou  art  the  wide-striding  and 
adorable  Vishnu  ;  thou,  o  Bnihmanuaputi  (or  lord  of  prayer),  art  a 
priest  (eVoArnd),  tbo  possessor  of  wealth,  etc."  Here,  although  Agni  is 
also  identified  with  India  and  Vishuu,  as  he  is  with  other  deitica  in 
the  following  verses,  the  connection  between  him  uud  Brahnianaspati 
is  shown  to  be  more  intimate  and  real  by  the  fact  that  both  the  latter 
word  and  Agni  are  in  the  vocative.  In  the  next  passage  also  firihaa- 
pati,  as  well  as  Mutarisvan  may  be  regarded  as  an  epithet  of  Agni, 
iii.  -'6,  2.  TaA  hibhram  Aynhn  avau  haramnhe  vaihanaram  mdtarit- 
rrlnasi  ukthyam  |  Bfihatpatm  mantuho  decai&Uiyt  t>ipram  hot  a  mm 
atithim  rayhuthyadam  |  "We  call  to  our  succour  the  bright  Agni,  tha 
friend  of  nil  mankind  ;  Mutariivan,  who  is  worthy  to  be  hymned ; 
Brihospati,  the  wise  invoker,  the  guest,  swiftly-moving,  that  he  may 
como  to  a  man's  worship  of  the  gods." 

The  verse  above  quoted,  r.  43,  12,  is  also  alternatively  explained 


ARE  BRIOASPATI  AND   BRA  OMAN  ASPATI  NAMES  OF  AGXI  ?     233 


Agni  by  Sayana  in  his  remarks :  athavH  iyam  Ayntyi  \  brihatak  pari- 
cridkatya  birmanah  *re!ml  iti  Brihatpatir  Aptir  uchyals  \  tatkd  nth- 
carna-dh&ma-  priiAfkatca-Madana-tudana -  hiranyavarnatt&di-  Impair  apy 
Afnir  ita  Brihatpaiih  \  "  Or,  Agni  in  the  subject  of  tho  verso.  By 
Brihnspati,  the  lord  of  the  gram!  ceremonial,  Agni  is  denoted.  And, 
farther,  it  is  also  shown  by  the  marks  of  having  a  bock  of  dark- 
coloured  smoke,  of  being  placed  on  the  sacrificial  ground,  of  having  a 
golden  hue,  etc.,  that  Brihuspati  is  Agni."  And  in  ii.  2,  7,  Agni  is 
besought  to  make  Heaven  and  Earth  favourable  to  tho  worshipper  by 
prayer,  brahtaanil  {prt'ichl  dyUvtlprithitl  brahmaad  kridhi).  Farther, 
Agni  (see  above  pp.  199  f.),  as  well  as  Urahmanoepati  and  Erihaspati, 
is  ceiled  a  priest,  and  both  are  designated  as  Angiras,  or  Angiraaa. 

On  the  other  hand,  however,  Brahmanaspati  or  Brihaspati  ia  else- 
where distinguished  from  Agni.  Thus  in  x.  68,  9,  Brihaspati  iB  said 
to  have  found  out  Ushas,  the  heaven,  and  Agni,  and  by  a  hymn  to 
have  chased  away  the  darkness  {iah  ttthfim  avindat  tah  nak  to  agmm 
n  mkna  ri  babadhe  (aminui).  In  vii.  10,  4,  Agni  is  asked  to  bring 
Brihaspati  along  with  Indra,  Rudro,  Aditi,  etc.  In  tin:  following 
texts,  where  a  number  of  different  gods  are  invoked  or  nomed  togellur, 
Agni  is  mentioned  separately  from  Brahmanaspati  or  Brihaspati,  iii. 
20,  5  ;  iv.  40,  1  ;  v.  61,  12  f.  ;  vii.  41,  1 ;  vii.  44,  I  j  ix.  6,  11 ; 
x.  36,  11  ;  x.  C5,  1  ;  i.  130,  4 ;  x.  141,  3. 


SECTION  XVI II. 


YAMA    AND   THK   DOCTRINE   OF   A  FUTURE   LIFE. 


(1)  References  to  immortality  in  the  earlier  booh  of  the  Riy-tti*. 

It  is  in  tin-  ninth  and  tenth  books  of  the  Rig-vcda  that  we 
the  most  distinct  and  prominent  reference*  to  a  future  life.  It 
true  thut  the  Ilibhus,  on  account  of  their  artistic  "kill,  are  said,  in 
some  texts  in  the  earlier  books,  to  hurt  been  promised,  and  to 
have  attained,  immortality  and  diviue  honours  (sec  above  p.  226, 
nd  U.V.  iv.  35,  3,  where  it  is  said:  atha  aiia  Fujah  amritatyi 
panth&m  yn»'iw  dtvtuutui  Rihhmah  eukiuUih  |  "Then,  skilful  Vijas, 
Ilibhus,  ye  proceeded  on  the  road  of  immortality,  to  the  asect&blngt 
of  the  gods;"  and  verse  8:  ye  detuto  aoJiavata  tukdtyA  fye* 
id  adhi  divi  niiheda  |  U  ralnam  dh&ta  fit  raw  napAtitk  Sandkattttnai 
abhacata  amfitQsah  |  "Ye  who  through  your  skill  hare  become  gods, 
ntiil  13m  falcons  are  seated  in  the  sky,  do  ye,  children  of  strength,  girt 
us  riches;  ye,  o  sons  of  Sudhanvan,  have  become  immortal.").  This, 
however,  is  a  special  enso  of  deification,  and  would  not  prove  tlut 
ordinary  mortals  were  considered  to  survive  after  the  termination  of 
their  earthly  existence.  There  are,  however,  a  few  other  passages 
which  must  be  understood  as  intimating  a  belief  in  a  future  state  of 
happiness.  Thus  Agni  is  said  in  i.  31,  7,  to  exalt  a  mortal  to  immor- 
tality \tvirii  tarn  Ague  amritaU*  ttttamo  martafi  dadhUti) ;  and  to  be  thi 
guardian  of  immortality  (adabdho  gop&h  amritatya  rakthitu).  And  the 
same  power  is  ascribed  to  Soma  in  i.  01,1:  taca  pranitl  pitare  n*k 
J nd ■>  deieshit  ralnam  abhajanla  dhirah  |  "  By  thy  guidance,  o  Soma, 
our  sage  ancestors  have  obtained  riches  among  the  gods; ''  and  again, 
inverse  18:  apyiiyamOnoamrUAya  Soma  did  irara&si  utUmvni dhi»ht*\\ 
"  Soma,  liccoming  abundant  to  (produce)  immortality,  place  (for  us) 
excellent  treasures  in  the  sky."411     Some  other  passages  to  the 


"•  Pmf«*or  Itonbiy,  however,  translate*  ilifleroiilly :  "  take  cootsaiaa  of  Ike  lujhcrt 
MiKiwa  in  urnvta." 


DaHOETALITY  IN  THE  EARLIER  BOOKS  OP  TDE  QIO-VEDA.     285 


effect  arc  the  following :  i.  180,  5.  Nukatya  prithfhe  adfii  iish{hati  irito 
ye  priifUi  #*  ha  itvtthtt  gtuhhati  \  8.  DahJiintiratunt  id  imuni  ehUrd 
dmtahinavatSm  diti  turyutah  \  daWtindvanto  amritam  hhojmU  daiahinH- 
tantah  pratirantt  ayuh,a  (  "  5.  The  liberal  man  abide*  placed  upon  tho 
summit  of  the  sky ;  h«  go«*  to  the  goda.  8.  Thc*»  brilliant  things  are 
the  portion  of  those  who  bestow  largesses;  there  are  snns  for  them  in 
heaven  ;  they  attain  immortality  ;  they  prolong  their  liveB.  i.  154,  5. 
Tad  a»ya  priyam  nlhi  ptithous  ahjCtm  nam  yatra  dtrayaro  ma/tanti  | 
urukramaiya  ta  hi  bandhur  iithd  ri'tAjw/t  pade parents  madhrah  ut*ah  | 
"May  I  attain  to  that  bJi  ;VMirtu's)  beloved  abode  where  men  dovoted 
to  the  gods  rejoice ;  for  that  is  the  bond  of  tho  wide-striding  god — a 
epring  of  honey  in  tho  highest  sphere  of  Vishnu."  i.  171),  6.  Ubhatt 
csrjdr  ruhir  vgrah  pupotha  talijuh  dttethu  Hiuho  jagSma  |  "  Tho 
glorious  riahi  practised  both  kinds'1':  ho  realised  bis  aspirations  among 
the  gods."  In  v.  4,  10,  tho  worshipper  prays  :  prttjiibhir  Agne  t 
ram  aiydn  |  "  May  I,  Agni,  with  my  offspring,  attain  immortality.""* 
In  t.  55,  4,  the  Moruta  are  besought  to  place  thoir  worshipper*  in  the 
condition  of  immortality  {ulo  atmiln  amnlatr*  dadhdtana).  ».  63,  2; 
€fiti[iA  v&A  rSdho  amrilattam  Intake  |  "  We  aak  of  you  twain  ( Mitr.i 
said  Varurja)  rain,  wealth,  immortality."  vix.  57,  G.  Dadula  no  atnrt- 
laiyo  prajfiyai  |  whicli  Professor  Roth,  t.t.pnyr,,  trfTlfllf  1   "add  us 

•"  The  tame  idea  is  repeated  in  x.  107, 2  (votAd  rfi'ri  dttuMtfiiranio  tuHur  f 
*Jr*dik  mha  t*  turyrnti  \  hiranrjadTth  tmritalvam  Mojantt  tvJKdHk  una  prm  tiraml* 
3y*4  1  MThe  giten  of  largesses  abide  high  in  tbe  sky;  the  (fivers  of  hor**  live  *  iih 
tkeMin;  tho  giver*  of  gold  enjoy  immortality ;  the  given  of  raiment  prolong  their  liw*." 

*°  TVc  »«ino  word  *b  I  employed,  palhsM,  ucoure  alio  in  iii.  55,  10: 

1'iiinnr  f-jyitf  p^rtmam  p'iti  p~'th*ll  prism  dhamiini  mmriln  dmdMimi/i  \  ••  Vishnu,  a 
protntor,  (tiirdt  the  hightut  abode,  occupying  the  beloved,  imperishable  region*." 
See  alto  i.  162,  2;  x.  70,  •),  10.  la  i.  1C3,  If,  the  hone  which  had  been  itnia©- 
t»t«l  it  laid  to  harm  gone  to  the  highest  abode,  to  tin1  gudt  (mpm  prirpiii  fnr*m*m 
M^a«rA<tm  arr-in  itrVi  pitartim  mSturam  eh/i   \    aiiya  Avxiu  jiuSfittmo  Ki  jit»y;t|. 

In  ii.  23,  8,  meatioa  it  made  of  attaram  BMH  .-h«t  happiness,"  and  in 

ii.  25,  6,  of  tho  "  bappiurai  of  the  Rods"  (lirtamim  nmnt)  ;  but  it  duet  no:  appear 
whether  heaven  is  meant.  In  i.  159,  2,  Heaven  and  Earth  teem  to  be  declared  to 
provide  large  immortality  for  their  offspring  firm  prqjnjpj^  amritam). 

*»•  Sayaaa  explains  tlham  r*r%an  by  •* pleasure  and  austerity"  komaSi  iK» 
ep»:  tlm), 

111  8ee,  ho  were  r,  S2ynrjn's  ploea  and  Wilton't  note,  in  fere,  where  the  imir. 
isftared  to  is  explained  at  ininwrtality  tirongh  cflVpiiug,  and  u  eostbtiag  is  au  un- 
tfuliiil  smmsiiiii  of  deteendants.  Die  immurultty  of  a  mortal  {amrituftvm  >*m*i>- 
'nukkHUt-Ukthtytn  |  "prt/am  turn  prtjvyati  tad  m  It  marlya  umritam"  iti  At 
.•rtrf.A). 


286         REFERENCES  TO  TUB  FATHERS  IN  THE  RICYKDa. 

to  (the  number  of)  the  people  of  eternity,  i.t.  to  the  Messed."  rii.  76, 
4.  T$  id  dtrdndm  ladhamddah  dtann  ritdeAmah  karayah  p*rryAmk\ 
"They  were  the  companion*  of  the  gods,— those  ancient  righteous 
sages."  viii.  5ft,  7.  Uil  yad  bradhruuya  tixhlapait  griham  Indrai  da 
gauvahi  J  madhcah  piled  tachevahi  trih  tapta  takhyuh  pad*  |  *4  When  w» 
two,  Indra  and  I,  £0  to  tho  region  of  tho  sun,  to  our  home,  may  w«. 
drinking  nectar,  sock  thrice  seven  in  the  realm  of  the  friend."  Can- 
para  viii.  -18,  3,  quoted  above  in  p.  90,  note :  Wo  have  drunk  the 
Soma;  wo  have  become  immortal;  we  have  entered  into  light; 
have  known  tho  gods." 

Vfita  is  also  declared  to  hare  a  store  of  immortality  in  his  house  (h 
grihe  amritasya  nt'Jhir  hitah).  But  tliis  verse  occurs  in  a  late  hymn 
(the  186th)  of  the  tenth  Mandala.  In  the  same  Book,  x.  95,  18,  the 
promise  is  marie  by  the  gods  to  Pururavas,  the  son  of  Iju,  that  though 
he  was  a  mortal,  when  his  offspring  should  worship  them,  with  obla- 
tions, he  should  enjoy  happiness  in  Svarga,  heaven  (»<»'  let  iaedk  mm 
iihur  Aila  yalhtm  etad  bhavaai  mrityubandimh  |  prqj'd  te  dtvun  hacuku 
yajftti  icarge  u  Iran  api  mildaydst). 


- 


(2)  Reftrmett  to  the  Fathers,  the  soul*  of departed  ancestor*,  in  the 
earlier  books  of  the  liitj-teda. 

The  following  passages  appear  to  refer  to  the  sonla  of  deceased 
cestors  conceived  of  as  still  existing  in  another  world  : 

i.  .'Hi,  18.  Agninu  Turcaiam  Yadum  pardvatah  UgradevaA  haxdnake  | 
"  Tlirough  Agui  we  call  Turra.4a,  Yadu,  and  Ugradcvn  from  afar." 
iii.  55,  2.  Mo  ihi  no  atra  juhvranta  derSh  md  puree  Agnt  pilarah  pad- 
ninth  |  "  Lot  not  tho  gods  injure  us  here,  nor  our  early  Fathers  who 
know  tho  realms."  ri.  52,  4.  Aeanlu  mam  Uihato  jAyamdndh  acaiU* 
md  lindhaetth  pincamdnah  |  avantu  md  parvatdio  dhrncdso  aeanlu  m& 
pitaro  devahataa  |  "  May  the  rising  Dawn,  tho  swelling  rivers,  the  linn 
mountains,  proteot  me;  may  the  Fathers  protect  mo  in  my  invocation 
to  the  gods."  vi.  76,  10.  Brdhmandtah  pitarah  lomydsah  Una  mo 
Dydvdprithit\  anehasd  \  Ptishu  nah  pdtu  duritdd  ritdtridhah  |  "Hay 
the  Itruhmans,  Fathers,  drinkers  of  Soma,  may  Heaven  and  Earth  be 
propitious  to  us.  May  IMilian,  the  promoter  of  sacred  rites,  preserve 
us  from  calamity."     rii.  35,  12.  S'aA  Hah  saiymya  patayo  bhotamtu 


HYMNS  RELATING  TO  TAMA  AND  TflR  PATflF.RS. 


287 


iam  m  arranUih  tarn  u  mntu  gi'iruh  \  iaih  nah  ftibhttrah  ndrita/i  rutin  it  a  A 
iam  m>  bhatantu  pilaro  hottthu  \  ''  May  the  lords  of  truth  be  propitious 
to  us,  and  so  may  the  horses  and  kinc  ;  may  the  skilful  ltibhus, 
dexterous  of  hand,  may  the  Fathers,  be  propitious  to  us  in  our  invo- 
cations." viii.  48,  13.  Team  Stma  pitribhih  luriiiiidilno  anu  dyuia- 
prill.iel  a  talaniha  |  "Thou,  Soma,  in  concert  with  tho  Pothers,  hn.it 
extended  the  Heaven  and  Eurili." 

I  may  also  introduce  hero  a  few  dotaohod  texts  on  the  souse  subject 
from  the  ninth  and  tenth  books:  ix.  83,  3.  Mayatino  mamire  tirya 
tnfiynyd  nrichaJuhmah  pilaro  tjarbham  udadhuh  |  "By  his  wondrous 
power,  the  skilful,  have  formed,  tho  Fathers,  beholders  of  men,  have 
deposited  the  germ."  x.  68,  11.  Abki  sydrj*  na  kriiattibhir  afrit* 
nakihatrtbkih  pitaro  dyum  apifitian  |  "The  Fathers  have  adorned  the 
*ky  wilh  stars,  as  a  bay  horse  is  decorated  with  pearls  (?)."  x.  88,  15. 
Dvt  trull  airinavam  pilrln&m  tifutm  derandm  uta  ntartydnAm  |  "  1  have 
beard  of  two  paths  for  mortals,  that  of  tho  Fathers,  and  that  of  the 
gods."41*  x.  107,  I.  Mahijyotih  pitribhir  datUm  ugat  |  "The  great 
light  given  by  the  Fathers  has  armed." 

In   the  Taittirlya   Bruhmana,   and   in   tho   Farinas,   thu   Fa) 
(Pritria)  are  represented  aa  being  a  distinct  order  of  beings  from  men, 
as  may  be  gathered  from  their  being  separately  created.    Sec  tho  I »% 
vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  23  f.,  37,  58,  79  f. 


(3)  Hymns  rtlating  to  Tama  and  the  Falheri. 

I  now  come  to  the  passages  in  tho  ninth  and  tenth  books  to  which 
I  first  alluded  :  and,  owing  to  the  great  interest  and  importance  of  tho 
subject*  to  which  they  refer,  I  shall  first  quota  the  most  essential  parts 
of  thorn  at  length,  and  then  supply  a  summary  of  the  conclusions 
which  they  assert  or  involve. 

I  shall  begin  with  the  brief  account  of  Yama'a  parentage  in  the 
serenteenth  hymn,  already  quoted  above,  p.  227,  and  the  dialogue 
betwixt  him  and  his  twin  sister  Yarn!,  is  the  tenth  hymn  of  the  tenth 
book. 

B.V.  x.  17,  1.  "Tvaahtn  makes  a  marriage  for  his  daughter.  (Hill- 
ing) this,  this  whole  world  assembles.    Tho  mother  of  Yama,  becoming 

>'•  See  the  lit  vol.  of  this  Woik,  p.  434. 


288 


HYMNS  RELATING  TO  YAMA  AND  THE  FATI1 : 


wedded,  tho  wife  of  tho  great  Tie-mat,  disappeared.  2.  They  eon- 
coaled  the  immortal  (bride)  from  mortals,  linking  (another)  of  similar 
form,  gavo  hur  to  Vivusvat.  And  she  bora  the  Asvin*  when  thai  hap- 
pened.    Sararjyu  nbandonod  the  two  pairs  of  twins.' 

The  following  hymn  contain*  a  dialogue  between  Tama  and  hi*  ! 
■istor  YnmT,  in  which,  according  to  Professor  Roth,  she  is  to  bo 
•idcrod  as  urging  a  matrimonial  union  between  then  for  the  cent 
tion  of  the  human  species,  of  which,  in  the  opinion  of  that  writer, 
appear  to  have  becu  r  i est  pair.4"     In  rem  -1,  they 

are  declared  to  have,  been  the  offspring  of  the  Gandhurru,  and  his  v.  i 

II.  V.  x.  10,  l.41*  0  cAil  takhuyum  takfiyu  t  air  it  yum  tirah  pun  ekid 
srnavam  jagamdn  \  pitur  napatam  a  dadhiU  redkak  adhi  kshami  praU- 
rath  dtdhyanah  \  2.  Sa  U  takhd  takhyam  ratkfi  ttat  »a!aktk*t&  yW 
eixhui-upn  bhaviiti  \  mahat  putrtto  aturiuya  eJr«A  dine  dkartt&rah  urnyi 
pan  khytm  |  3.  Uianli  gha  it  nmn'tumk  ettd  eltavja  chit  tyajttam  m<*rt- 
yatya  |  ni  te  MM  NRWi  iJHtyi  axmn  janyuh  paiii  tantam  &  ciniyuk  | 
4.  iVa  fat  punl  (hnhrimit  knd  ha  nUnam  fitA  wdento  anritaik  rapena  \ 

'"  After  this  section  was  first  written  I  m  Proi   not  Mix  Mailer's  aeerad 

series  of  Lecture*  on  tho  Science  of  Language.    Tho  learned  and  ingenious  sal 
there  dlaenases  at  length  the  meaning  of  tho  mjrthi  regnrdinjr  Virastat,  Saronji. 
ring  (pp.  l&t  IT.,  and  -Jos  II'.).     lie  wider  '■'  represent 

sky,  Soranya  the  duwn,  Yuma  originally  tho  (lay,  and  Vntnl.  hit  twin  sister, 
night  (p.  60S).    I  «h:ill  briefly  refer,  a*  I  proceed,  to  some  of  his  farther 
tion*.  basing  tin  r..i.!u  to  SOOtoN  the  wort  itself  for  fuller  informitioa. 

*"  See  Professor  Roth's  remarks  on  Yamn  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental 

Society,  ie.  428,  and  in   the  Journal  of  Ihn  Amnricin   (hioalal   Satiety,  fiL  3ii  t. 

|  jre,"  he  says,  "  as  their  name*  denote,  twin  brother  and  sister,  and  are  the 

first  human  pair,  the  originators  of  the  race.    At  the  Hebrew  conception  dearly 

connected  the  parents  of   mankind  by  talking   the  woman  farmed  from   a  portion 

'.ixly  1. 1  i.Ik  miii.  so  by  the  Indian  tradition  they  are  placed  in  the  rciation- 

ship  of  twins.    This  thought  is  laid  by  tho  hymn  in  oui  rb'on  in  (he  month  of  YsmI 

,  when  »ho   U  made  to  s»y:   'Era  in  the  womh  the  Crestor  made  na  for 

"■■' ni  with  '  "  I  liter,  ■-.!>  theothei  hand,  says  (Lcct  . 

"There  is  a  curious  dialogue  between  hex  [Tint)  and  bcr  brother,  where  she  (the 

Bight)  iraploros  her  brother  (tho  day)  to  mako  her  his  wife,  and  where  be  declines 

r.  -  became,'  as  he  says,  '  they  hnre  called  it  a  sin  th.it  a  brother  should  Bssrry 

.  r." "     Again,  p.  Alii.  "Thero  is  not  a  single  word  in  the  Veda  pouting  to 

Uld  Fassl  u'  the  tlm  couple  of  mortals,  as  tl.e  Indian  Adam  and  E*i . 

Yama  had  boon  the  first  created  of  men,  torsi]  the  V  -n  speaking  of  bin. 

■'   luve  passed  this  over  in  silence."     Sec,  however,  the  paaeagc  frora  the 

A.V.  nfj   r.,  l.'i,  to  be  quoted  further  on. 

'"  'I'uia  hyran  b  repeated  in  the  A.V.  xviii.  I,  I  n".     I  era  indebted  to  Professor 
Aufrecht  for  some  improvements  in  my  translation. 


rental 
lna< 


HYMNS  RELATING  TO  YAMA  AM)  THE  FAT11 1 


2K<> 


Gandharto  aptu  apy/3  cha  youhu  til  no  niibhih  paramntit  y.»i\  im  nau  |  5. 
Garble  nu  nau  janitd  dampati  tar  devtn  Tiathfa  tarita  viitarupak  | 
nakir  atya  praminanti  vratdni  reda  ndv  atya  pftthivl  uta  dynuh  \  6. 
Ko  atya  tula  prathamatya  ahnah  kah  itli  dadttria  kof  ilia  pra  rochat  | 
bfiknn  Ititrtitya  Varunatya  dhdma  tad  u  bnuah  dfamo  v\chyd  npin  |  7. 
Yamatya  md  Yamydih  Uuuah  Ay  an  tenant-  ycnau  lahaityydya  |  fdyd 
iVrt  paiye  taniat'u  ririchy&Si  vi  (hid  tfihma  "°  rath  >nlrd  |   8.  Xa 

tuhfbanfi  na  hi  mi4kanti  cU-  <A  \ha  ye  eharanti  |  (  — Nir. 

V.  2)  any  ma  toad  tihana  ynh:  .  xrihara!!-  :  9. 

l:\lr\bhir atmai akabhir daituytt  Siryasya  chatshur  malar  n  muGjfft  \ 
dita  pfithiryil  miihuna  talandfai  Yantir  Yamaiya  bihbriyud  ajdmi  |  10 
(  —  Nir.  to.  20)  A  ■f/mnii  tittaril  yngilni  yn'/n  jdmayah  krin- 

OMJtN  aj  barbhfihi  irishabluiya  bnhum  anyaut  iehhatra  mbhayi 

patim  mat  |  11.  Kim  bhrdtH  axad  yad  andlham  bhavtlH  Lim  u  tratd  ynn 
JS'irritir  mifacM&t  |  kdma-miiUl  bahu  dad  rupumi  tanrd  mt  lanrain 
sam  pipfigdhi  |  12.  Na  Ml  u  te  lanvd.  iMMi  sum  paprickytim  pupam 
Gnur  yah  taaaflram  nigaehhsi  \  anycna  mat  pramudah  kalpayatta  na  U 
bhrdtd  lubhage  tariifi  clat  |  13.  (=Nir.  vi.  28)  Rata  bala  an  Yarn* 
Mated  te  inano  hridaynm  cha  aviddma  |  anyu  At  la  tram  kahshyil  it  a 
yuUam  pari  ihtajute  libuj<ca  Vfikiham*11  |  H.  (—Nir.  xi.  81)  An  yam  « 
thu  .»'  anyah  it  ttum  pari  thxijrita  libuj'an  triL-ihaM  |  Uuya 

t6  trim  manah  ichha  »a  r«  tata  adha  krinuthia  lamtidtm  talfuidrdm  , 

[  Yuml  saya]  •*  O  that  I  might  attract  a  friend  to  friendly  act*.  May 
tho  aago  (Yiuna?),  after  traviising  a  vast  ocean,  nostra  a  gruinUon  to 
his  t.Ilir,  uml  look  fai  I  over  the  earth.10     2.  (Yaroa.)  Thy 

friend   docs   not  i  ill   intimacy  that  (his)  kinswoman   (hould 

become  (a»)  an  nliL-n.  Tho  heroes,  tho  sons  of  tho  great  Spirit,  tho 
impportcra  of  the  sky,  look  far  and  wide  around  (sec  rcrso  8).  3. 
(Yuml.)  The  immortula  dtdire  thLs  of  th«T,  (they  ileaire)  a  descendant 
left  behind  by  tho  one  aolo  mortal.  Let  thy  soul  be  united  to 
niiuo.  As  a  husband,  penctrutu  the  body  of  (thy)  wife.  I.  (Yams.) 
Sliall  wc  (do)  now  what  wo  have  never  doue  IwflBtf  Shall  We 
(have  bevn)  speakers  ol   righteousneaa,  utter  uurigbtvousnv^s  ? 

«•  Cmnpwo  A.V.  rt  00.  I ;  ti.  127.  J. 
«•'  Onapare  A.V.  ii.fi.  1. 

1,1  Tliii  veno  occur*  with  r»ri»tioai  in  Ui«  S«tb*-t«J»,  i.  310.    Tho  tonw  of  k,at 

i  as  umbo  uthm,  is  obscure.     If  tho  sage  (i.v/A«.)  mctn  Y.imo,  Us  fits**-  nujr  tc 

»r*l,  or  the  GmulLnrru.  and  I  lie  pi.  .-  nisj  b«  tht  son  whom  Yam! 

wss  dssirvui  io  U«r  «o  h«»  twin  bmthrr  (Ysmu).    Oompura  the  ant  bslf  of  vgrse  S. 

It 


BTVXS  UUtflXG  TO  TAMA  AXD  TBI  F. 


ia  the  (semi) 


k-sw 


ifciimiii  aaV 

5.  (T«L)  TW 
the  creator,  the  Ti^ficr,  the  ihaacraf  eB  fan  all 
wise,  f while  we  were  yet)  ta  the  wart.**  5o  oac 
ordinances.  Earth  tad  km  btv  tterfa  t.  (Tawas.)  Whi 
knows  this  first  day?  Who  bsw  ssea  it  ?  Who  taw  ii rlesi  it ?  T«a 
a  the  realm  of  Mitra  wad  Tarawa.  What  wilt  taoa.  o  wwatoa  w  n  n, 
say  ta  thy  tbocgfctlrawrss  (.:)  ta  aww  ?  7.  (Taat )  TW  dam  ef 
Tama  hat  come  apaa  me,  Taad,  ta  lie  with  hiai  oa  the 
Let  me,  as  a  wife  bare  bit  body  to  my  hasbaad.  Let  we  wkni  i 
like  the  two  wheel*  of  a  chariot,  ft.  (Tame.)  These  spies  of  the  gods 
who  mage  tbroaghoa*  this  world  ataad  aat  stfll,  aeither  da  they  wis*. 
Depart,  qwkkly,  waatoa  woman,  with  agcae  other  man  thaa  anc  Whirl 
rowad  with  turn  like  the  two  wheel*  ef  a  chariot.  9.  (TuIO  Theagb 
aha  ehowld  wait  apes  him  by  aifkt  sad  by  day,  «t31  At  eye  of  the  an 
weald  open  again.  Both  ia  hearea  sad  earth  twiae  tre  rJoaery  waited. 
Let  Taml  treat  Teaw  as  if  the  were  aat  hie  sasser.  10.  (Tawav) 
ages  thall  come  whea  kinenra  wad  liueeeutu  abaD  do  what  at 
;  their  relation.  Spread  thy  am  beweath  a  wale.  Desire, 
o  fair  one,  aaetber  husband  than  aw.  11.  (Tint.)  How  eaa  a 
aua  be  a  brother,  whea  (a  woman)  ie  left  withowt  a  helper? 
And  what  b  a  sister,  whea  misery  (t*  allowed  to)  cocao  upon  her? 
Orercome  by  desire,  I  em  thai  iiajiBltBsjwU  Unite  thy  body  with 
taiac.  12.  (Tama.)  I  will  not  unite  my  body  with  thine.  They  mil 
him  a  sinner  who  eexeafly  approaches  hie  sister.  Beak  thy  gratifi- 
cation  with  some  other  thaa  me.  l*sir  one,  thy  brother  desires  not 
this.**     IS.  (Tami.)4-  Tboa  art  weak,  alas,  o  Yams ;  we  peteoire  aot 

«■  Oaneare  attikr'i  Lrcssna,  Sai.  series,  a.  t».  Be  whea  fisaeWis  fcr 
TiimrU.mi^m^mmwik{JlKmrmlm)mram>V%.immB,mlit»ttm\\hgij^^ 
rTnektli  ■  tea*.  i_V.  su  T*;  J,  as  Bare  termed  a  ttt 
6cr  tV>«c  p.  2SS ;  alsft  tm.  7%  8. 
,.  1,  It,  U)  rq-i*.  t*is< 
as  U  tmirn  Imri  mm  papritk&m  | 
aa  B>  Uriti  astlast  raaifi  mrt  |  It.  Aa  mi  a  U  tamwm  tmti  mm 
fmritiiimfipmmilmrtmtttmSnm  njirllff  {  amwmmt  mmi  mmmm  kfidt  m 
Uriti  *****  i«|av  ft  tmfty  |  - 1  an  aot  ta  ikes  ttj  helper,  o  Yaasl ;  I  wQt  m* 
BM  at*  seer  vita  Oia*.  Smk  ta?  gnHicatina  aiu'ssae  MWr  laaa  bm.  Pair 
eae,  tar  W**W  imtm  a*  tii..  I  srjfl  aot  sank  b*t  bodr  *nh  taise.  TVrr  call 
kit  a  tm»*r  »ao  mxmiij  lyamsa  U  war.  Tka»  a*  abfcomat  to  a»j  mml  ml 
Wan.  taat  I,  a  bsatacr.  aaaaU  lit  oa  bit  mmwt  Wd." 
-  Thai  sent  a  ejeatad  ia«  tmlsisi  I  ia  Niraku,  ri.  «. 


iirrwiettlvo:  m  baiOat 


HTMNS  RELATING  TO  TAMA  AND  THE  FATHERS. 


291 


any  soul  or  heart  in  thee.  Another  woman  shall  enlace  and  embrace 
thee  like  a  girdle,  or  as  a  creeping  plant  a  tree.  14.  (Yama.)  Thou 
•holt  embrace  another  mas,  o  YamI,  and  Another  man  theo,  as  a  creep- 
ing plant  a  tree.  Do  thou  desire  his  huurt,  and  lie  thine.  Make  then 
a  fortunate  alliance."  •" 

The  next  hymn  I  quote  in  addreaaed  to  Yama. 

E.V.  x.  14,  1  (-A.V.  xviii.  1,  49.  Nir.  x.  20).  FarryiramMm pri- 
vate mah\r  anu  bahubhyah pantkum  anupasptiidnam  |  Faitanafam  utitga- 
manam  janun&ih  Yamaih  rujuitaiix  haiiihi  duvatya  |  [A.V.  XTiii.  3,  13. 
Yo  mamdra  prathamo  marlyurium  yah  preyaya  prathamv  lokam  ttam  | 
faixateatam  tangamanam  jananSm  Yamam  rajanam  havithi  wpaf 
f«ts)m  |  2.  Tamo  no  gulvm  prathamo  tiveda  naithd  garyQtir  apabkar- 
taeai  u  |  yittra  nah  /»iirr«  pilarah  parryur  rm\  jajnfintlk  pslhyah  mm 
nik  |  3.  Miitall  Karyair  Yamo  Angirobhir  Bfikatpatir  ffikvabhir 
tavpidhCnak  |  i'dffii  da  deriih  cax^idhur  yt  eha  det&k  n&hH  anyt  na- 
dkayd  anye  madanti  |  4.  Imam  Yama  prattaram  d  hi  $lda  Angirobhik 
pitribhih  tamvidtlnah  |  d  trd  manlrSh  lavi-instah  vahimtu  end  ra/an 
kmu&a  mdiayaita  |  6.  Angirobhir  dgahi  yajniytbhir  Yama  Tairvpair 
ika  madayaixa  |  Virauavtam  hurt  yah  pit*  if  asmin  yajtu  barkithi  d 
niatmdya  |  6.  Angira*o  nah  pitaro  Natagr&h  Atharaino  llhrigatah  torn- 
ydtah  |  tuhuiit  vayam  tumatau  yajniyunam  apibhadre  tattmaiuut  tyfima  \ 

7.  Prthi  prehi  pathibhih  purtyebhir  yatra  nah  parr*  pilarah  parry  kit  | 
ubhd  rdjdnd  tradhayu   madanti  Yamam  paiy&ti  Varunam  cha  dtvam  | 

8.  Sangackhawa  pitfibhtk  *am  Yamena  itf-tupOrtlma  param*  ryoman  | 
kiivdya  aradyam  punar  anion  thi  tangachkatta  tanrd  tuearchuh  |  0. 
Aptta  rl/j  n"  eka  urpatato  aimai  ttam  pitaro  lokam  akran  |  aholhir 
adbhir  altuhhir  tyaitam  Yamo  daduti  avaulnam  asmai  |  10.  Ali  drarn 
Saramtyau  hunau  ehaturahhau  iabalau  tddkund  palhd  |  atka  pitflm 
nridmtrdn  upthi  Yamtna  y«  tadhamddam  madanti  |  11.  Yau  tt  tvSnoM 
Yama  rakahitdrau   chaturakthau  pathiraltkl  nriehalihavtu  \  tClhyuM 


«*»  It  app*ars  from  Trofwior  Anfrettit'a  Catalogue  of  the  Bodleian  San»*rit  MRS. 
f.  S2,  thai  (he  Karaiinha  Purina,  i.  13,  con  tain  i  •  dialogs*  bttw««ti  Tama  and 
YamT ;  but  I  am  informed  br  Dr.  Hall,  who  baa  looked  at  tbo  paiMgv,  that  th* 
co»Tcnatiun  don  not  appcaw  to  be  on  the  tome  (abject  m  that  in  Uw  hjrnn  bHbrc  w*. 

«••  Compare  A.V.  rL  28.  8 :   T*k  jirnlUai>  prarmfm  a—iaa  takmikm*9  pan- 

tkam  anwpaipaiSmak  |  yo  *tya  lit  dfipado  pat  tAataihpaaai  ftimai  Yamaya  nam* 

ottu  mrttyarf  |  "  RaTriraea  to  that  Tama,  to  Death,  who  find  nwhod   tho  rira., 

.?  out  a  path  for  many,  who  u  lord  o*  tbea*  two-footod  and  fooMoolod  crea« 


292 


HYMNS  RELATING  TO  YAMA  AND  TI1E  FATrTEIiS. 


mam  pari  dehi  rtijaii  natti  eha  a.mai  ananutaih  tha  dkehi  |  12.  Cr&nat&i 
tuulrip/i  uduinbalau  Yamaiya  dilau  tharalo  janiin  ana  \  trtv  aaaulkptk 
dfi&ayt  ttfirytlya  punar  datum  asum  adyitha  lhairam  I  13.  Yamajt 
tvinam  tutiutti  Yanntya  juhutu  harih  |  Yamaik  ha  gajno  parkhati  epu- 
d&to  arankritah  |  14.  Yamrtya  ghriiavai  hatirjuhata  pra  cha  ti*hf\*t*  \ 
ta  tio  dertthu  u  yatruii  iirgham  fiyuh  pra  jlcau  |  15.  Yatarty*  m*dim- 
matlamatii  rujne  hat-guilt  juhutam  \  idai/t  namah  rUhilhgah  purrajelkftk 
purttbkyah  pathikridbhyah  \ 

"  Worship  with  an  oblation  King  Yama,  too  of  Yjvasrat,  the 
sembler  of  men,  who  departed  to  tho  mighty  streams,  *"  and  spied 
the  road  for  many.  [Compare  AthaTrn-Tcdn,  xtiii.  3,  1 3  :  *  lUjrtr- 
«nco  yo  with  an  oblation  Yams,  the  eon  of  Yivasvat,  tho  assembler  of 
men,  who  was  tha  first  of  men  that  died,  and  the  first  that  deported  to 
this  (celestial)  world.']  2.  Yama  was  tha  first  who  found  for  us  the 
way.  Thu  home  is  not  to  be  taken  from  oa.  Those  who  are  now 
born  (follow)  by  their  own  paths  to  tho  place  whither  our  ancient 
fathom  have  departed.  3.  Mntall  magnified  by  the  Kavyns,  Yama  by 
tho  Angiroaes,  and  llrihaspati  by  the  Rikvana — both  those  whom  the 
gods  magnified,  imd  those  who  (magnified)  the  gods— of  these  socio 
arc  gladdened  by  Svaha,  and  others  by  Svadhu.  •!.  Place  thyself, 
Yama,  on  this  sacrificial  seat,  in  concert  with  tho  Angixasee  and 
Fathers.  Let  the  texts  recited  by  the  sages  bring  thee  hither.  Delight 
thyself,  o  king,  with  this  oblation.  4.  Coma  with  the  adomb: 
girascsj  delight  thyself  here,  Yama,  with  tho  children  of  Virfipa .*■ 
Seated  on  the  grass  at  this  sacrifice,  I  invoke  Vivasvat,  who  is  thy 
father.     6.  (Nir.  xi.  19.)  M"ny  we  enjoy  the  good  will  and  gracious 


: 


**»  Thi»  :  I  tlie  wards  pratrttt  ma  Air  iritu,  sdopted  bjr  ttoth  in 

Illmtniiiuno  ol'  thu  Kiruktu,  p.  138.  In  enpport  of  this  mum  of  mighty  (eel 
water*,  ho  refer*  to  R.V.  it.  113,  8  (which  1  ahull  quote  further  oa),  and  to  tscb»  9 
of  this  hjrmn.  In  bin  srtlOM  ""  Om  »!nry  r>f  JsntshM,  in  the  Journal  of  the  Genua 
Oriental  Society,  It,  420,  he  b»d  tnuulnted  the  words,  "from  the  deep  t*  the  heights.*' 
and  Dr.  Bang,  in  his  "  Ksssm  on  the  Bserod  Language,  etc.,  of  the  Paneea,"  p  T3%, 
ainiilarly  renders,  "  from  the  deptbs  to  the  hdichu."  In  the  Atbnm.wds,  x\i>L  i, 
bowertr,  where  the  saint1  wonts  occur,  tirthaii  tnrtxti  prattle  ma/trr  itt 
udfito  yrn*  ya.vtt  ("  They  cruta  by  funis  the  jjreat  rirets,  [by  the  road]  which 
•irtUMU  offerers  of  sacrifice  pa*'."* )  tn«*  m,"n  mor»  likely  to  mean  the  mighty 
Compare  Professor  MtUkt/l  Lwfesns,  »i.  615. 

**»  Virflpa  is  racntioned  in  B.V.  L  45,  3  .  t  iii.  C 1,  4 ;  and  the  Yirflpsa  in  iiL  H, 
C,  aod  i.  62,  6  f.    Set  the  3rd  toL  of  this  work,  p.  ua  and  note. 


HYMXS  RELATING  TO  TAMA  AND  THE  FATHERS. 


2M 


benevolence  of  those  adorable  being*,  tlio  Angirawtt,  our  Futhcro,  tho 
Navngriu,  the  Atharvnns,  tho  Bhrigu*.  offerers  of  soma.  7.  Depart 
thou,"'  depart  by  tho  ancient  paths  (to  tho  place)  whither  onr  early 
fathom  hare  departed.  (There)  shalt  thou  sco  the  two  kings,  Yamii  anil 
the  god  Yaruna,  exhilarated  by  tho  oblation  (svadhfi),  (or,  exulting  in 
independent  power).  8.  Meet  with  Ru  Fathers,  meet  with  Yuma,*" 
suet  with  the  [recompense  of  J  the  sacrifices  thou  host  offered '"  in 
tho  highest  heaven.  Throwing  off  all  imporfeetion  again  go  to  thy 
bom©."*      Become    united   to   a   body,   and     clothed   in   a   shining 

*"  The  following  Terse*  (as  appear*  from  Professor  Miiller'i  Essay  on  flM 
rites  of  tha  Brshusiis,  Jourasl  of  the  Gorman  Orient sj  s  108,  p,  xi.)  ire 

addressed  at  funerals  to  too  souls  of  tha  departed,  while  their  bodies  ore  being  coa- 
•uwrd  f>o  the  funeral  pile. 

**  Tis  A.V.  xriii.  2,  21  is  it  follows:  21.  BiMy&sW  It  manata  mannh  ikernim 
friku*  *pa  jnj<ukan*k  thi  |  mm  gacJ\/ias\a  jtitfiiMh  mm  gamma  lytmit  Ira  ritok 
raa  rout*  iiijrnniA  |   24    Ut  Ira  ruAtioru  Mam/a  tumvaMah  udapntlah  |  ajttia  krin- 
mmtH  litan  rankrmokthanlu  bat  Hi  |   23.  I'd  it  A  rum  iiyvr  eii/uthi  kratw  rf 
jit*M  |  itan  fothhatu  It  mono  udhd  pitrhi  ttpa  drava  |  "With  my  Hal  I  i 
soul ;  eoute  with  delight  to  these  abodes;  meet  with  the  Fathers,  inert  with 
Buy  delightful,  pleasant  braesc*  blow  upon  thee.      24.  May  tho  water-bringing, 
wstcr-shedding   Manila  bear  thee  upward,  sad  creating  ooolucas  by  khflfa 

sprinkle  the*  with  rain,    HI May  thy  soul  go  to  its  own  (timkvd),  and  hasten 

to  tho  Fathers." 

ss*  Tho  phrssa  itAfajurta  is  explained  by  Dr.  Hmg  (Ait.  Br.  ii.  p.  474,  aots). 
M(*,  he  says,  torsos  "what  is  sacrificed,"  an<l  •  •  •llltd  up  to ."     "  For  oil 

aaariloos  go  up  to  hcavco,  and  arc  *tor«d  »p  there  to  bo  taken  possession  of  by  tho 
aacriflorr  on  his  srriTol  in  heaven."  Tho  minis  before  as  will  therefore  ntran  "rcjoia 
thy  sscrincet  which  were  stored. up."  The  Athsrvm-Trds,  xriu.  2.  20,  expresses  tha 
sentiment  hero  tvferral  to  by  Dr.  Ilaug  in  tliiwe  w.irdu:  trWAuA  yii/  ehaifuht 
jimmt  Wit  It  mnitt  m*4kturhui<U)  |  "  May  tho  oblations  which  thou  offered**  while 
alive  (now)  drop  thee  honey."  And  in  A.V.  xi.  1,  36,  it  u  aaid :  ttaih  niriuir 
•mm  futknm*  y/MUm  nakt  liiM(h*»l*m  mthi  mpturaiman  \  "  With  the**  good  dead* 
nay  we  fellow  the  sacritce  which  abides  in  the  hen  Ten  with  seven  rays."  Compare 
L  122,  4 :  ya/M«  «•*•»/«•»  mamua  knUiUmm  tmrmtkami  Utpma  mymik  | 
upakuthK  Afnt  j*r*mk  paratal  Iritiyt  tnkt  mihtmUkmm  ussom  |  "  With  my 


sowl  I  ascend  after  the  gnat  sacriiioa  as  it  goes,  dwelling  tegethar  with  my  aaaUrsv 
lervoeir;  may  we,  Agni,  invited,  enjoy  a  festival  in  the  third  heaven  beyond  (the 
of)  decay."  And  A.V.  vi  123,  2:  «™j«iii  y*j«minck  matti  uifapurtam 
Lrimuiirir  «tmai  \  i.  Ss  ptchami *•  thdami  m  gajt  n  tmll'tJ  ma  yutltm  |  5. 
i  piitama  no  ntrVwi  mi  dtra  »nw*»<>  Mem  |  3.  "The  aacriiorr  will  follow  hi 
show  him  what  he  has  otTered.  4.  1  conk,  1  gut,  I  offer  oblations ;  may  I 
not  be  separated  from  what  I  ba<ro  given.  0.  0  king,  recognise  what  we  have  be- 
stowed ;  be  gvaeuMis."    Couipuiw  A.V.  iii.  20,  1. 

***  MGIUt  iia  (be  Eawy  just  referred  to, p.  ait.)  trsiwlntos  thia  veno  tls»:  "  Lcare 
eril  there,  Usea  rotarn  bosae,  and  take  s  form,"  pi  .  aderiag  appears  to  make 

taw  wapartsd  return  to  thi*  wojU  lo  resume  his  body,  tboajh  in  a  gloriaod  sute, 


BHg,    maa- 

icalth.    12. 

irxssuiahfc, 

tL<.  umSf 


294  HYM.NS  RELATING  TO  TAMA  JLVD  THB  FATHERS. 

form.**  9.  Go  ye,  depart  ye,  hasten  yo  from  hence.01  The  Father* 
have  made  for  him  this  place.  Yama  give*  him  an  ahoddw  dis- 
tinguished by  daya,  and  waters,  and  lights.  10.  By  an  suspicions 
path  do  thou  hasten  past  tho  two  four-eyed  brindled  dogs,  ths 
offspring  of  Saramd.  Then  approach  tho  benevolent  Fathers  who 
dwell  in  festivity  with  Yama  (compare  A.Y.  iviii.  4,  10).  11.  Ia- 
tnut  him,4"  o  Yama,  to  thy  two  four-eyed,  road-guarding, 
observing  watch-dogs ;  and  bentow  on  him  prosperity  and  health. 
Tho  two  brown  messengers  of  Yama,  broad  of  nostril  and 
wundor  about  among  men.*"  May  they  give  us  again  to-day  the  auspi- 
cious breath  of  life,  that  we  may  behold  the  sun.  13.  Pour  out  the 
soma  to  Yuma,  offer  him  an  oblation.  To  Yama  the  aucrirloo  pro- 
ceed* when  heralded  by  Agni  and  prepared.  14.  Ofler  to  Yama  sn 
oblation  with  butter,  and  be  active.     May  he  grant  us  to  lire  a  long 

which  doc*  not  teem  to  bring  oat  a  good  kiuq.  Roth,,  on  tho  other  band  (is  Jevra, 
Genu.  Or.  Society,  It.  428),  connect*  (be  word  ptmak  with  whnt  precedes,  ami  naiksi 
the  verae  thui :  "  Enter  thy  home,  laying  down  again  all  impcr fettiun,"  etc. 

°»  Tba  A.Y.  iviii.  2,  24,  any*  :  ma  tt  mono  mti  "aw  ma  'mfatiim  ma  nummmt  Sr  | 
fNU  It  hAtla  tanrtih  kinehnntha  \  2(5.  Ma  tra  rriktlmh  mm  badkUkft  ma  aVci pjt/kmi 
maki  |  hkam  pitrithtt  titva  tdktuva  I'amanijam  |  28,  Y*t  It  mttyam  mtikit*m  pmri- 
ekiir  apSnaf)  ptvjyi  y«A  «  vdlt  partU'tf  (  lot  It  ttiw/itty  yiUrtk  taw Tajuj  akatid 
i/A.mui/i  jiimar  11  rtJayanttt  |  •'  Let  not  tliy  aoul  nor  anything  of  thy  apirit  («■).  of 
of  thy  members,  or  of  thy  substance,  or  of  thy  body,  disappear.  26.  Let  bo  trw  m 
luuc,  nor  the  groat  divine  earth.  Having  found  un  abode  among  the  Father*,  floorita 
among  tho  suhjentK  of  Yiimn.  26.  Whatovnr  mrmbir  of  thine  has  been  removed  afar, 
or  breath  of  thine  ha»  departed  in  the  wind,  may  the  combined  Father*  reunite  Uwaa 
all  with  thoo." 

•**  These  words,  aocordlng  to  Prohawr  affflkr,  are  sddreaaed  to  «tU  ipirics. 

o*  jitmanam.  Compare  A.V.  xviii.  2,  37,  where  Yams  u  said  to  recoganse  these 
who  are  bii  Own:  dmliimi  vwnmi  avnmmtm  itnti  yuk  ttka  aaiid  mama  tktd  eMaaf 
ika  |  Yama/  rhikitran  prali  etad  aha  mamnuha  raye  upa  lukfkatam  ik*  |  "  I  grte 
this  abodo  to  this  man  who  hat  coma  hither,  if  he  is  mine.  Tama,  peToeJnag 
•gain,  '  Do  i*  mina,  let  him  come  hither  to  pronpority,'  " 

*"  See  Reth,  Journal  German  Oriental  Society,  tr,  42S,  at  the  foot,  and  bis 
planntion  of  jars'  dtki,  it.  da  (ace  abrn  t.  1$,  2  ;  and  A.V.  viii.  2.  20,  22).     M  tiller, 
on  the  other  hand  (p.  xit.),  tnntla.li*:  "Surround  bim,  Yuma,  protecting  him  from 
tho  dogt."  vti. 

*a*  The  two  dogs  of  Yams  ere  alio  mentioned  in  A.V.  tiii.  1,  9,  where  one  of  flats 
t*  toid  to  be  Mack  (»y<"imu)  and  the  other  apntted  (ialala).  In  A.V.  nii.  2,  11,  tU 
noteengert  of  Yama,  who  wander  among  men,  are  spoken  of  in  tho  plaroJ,  withoet 
being  d«*cribed  aa  dogt  (  Fatcutnttna  prakitan  Ttma  4WS9U  cktnu*  'aw  aeifsii—i 
imrvlin).  In  A.V.  v.  30,  6,  they  are  spoken  of  aa  two:  dutau  Ytmoty*  mi  '■■?&♦ 
adkijiKjnra  iki  |  "  Do  not  fallow  Yama 'a  two  msaaengsrs ;  come  to  the  citiea  of  the 
living."  la  A.Y.  viii.  8,  to  f.  tho  the  messengers  of  Death  and  Yama  art  mmtjeaed 


isa- 

lUtr, 
tai 


UTalNS  RELATING  TO  YAM  A  AND  THE  FATHERS. 


295 


life  among  tho  gods.  15.  Offer  it  most  honied  oblation  to  king  Yam*. 
Let  this  salutation  (bo  presented)  to  the  earliest-barn,  the  ancient 
rishis,  who  made  for  us  a  path." 

Hymn  15  of  tho  namo  Muudala  is  addressed  to  tho  Fathers,  ot 
departed  ancestors,  who,  as  wu  have  already  seen,  are  conceived  to  be 
tiring  in  a  state  of  blessedness  in  the  other  world,  though  in  somo 
places,  39  wo  shall  see,  somo  of  them  are  conceived  to  have  other  abodes. 
I  will  quote  some  verses  from  it,  which  will  show  still  further  their 
enjoyment*,  powers,  and  prerogatives : — 

x.  15,  1.  Ud  iralam  atart  ut  pnrotah  tut  madkyamSk  pilarak  savt- 
yutah  |  iuuiJi  ye  lyur  avrikak  ritajxit  te  no  aamtu  pUaro  kaeetku  |  2. 
Ida m  pitribkyo  tiamo  ailu  adya  ye  pirtuto  ye  uparHtah  \yuk  \  ye 
fiirtkive  rajati  d  nuhaltdk  y*  »d  nurwm  turri/amUu  viks/iu  \  .  .  .  .  .'>. 
Upakitdk  pitarah  lomyaso  barhiihytihu  nidhttku  priyetku  |  te  a  yamanta 
te  iha  intvantu  adki  bruvantu  te  avantu  atmun  f  C.  Achya  j4nu  dak- 
tktnato  nithadya  imaik  yajnam  abhi  grinita  rim  j  mti  kiiJuiihfa  pitarah 
kena  chin  no  yad  vah  dgah  purtuhalA  karOma  |  7.  Ailndto  arualndm 
vpaithe  ray nli  dhatta  ddituhe  martyttya  |  putrebhyah  pitara*  taeya 
taetah  pra  yathhata  te  ihorjam  dadhala  |  8.  Ye  nah  parte  pitarah 
aomyaeo  amuhire  eomapUham  ratitk{kdh  |  ttbhir  Yamah  aaitraruno 
Lt'lmthi  uiann  viadbhih  pratikumata  atlu  \  .  .  .  .  10.  Y»  eatyAto  kaci- 
rado  haviihpi'ih  Tndrtna  decaik  tarnthaiii  dadhfinuh  |  d  Ayne  yAhi  tahat 
rati  detacandaih  paraih  pdrraih  pitribkir  gharmetadbkih  |  11.  Ayni- 
tkrAtttfh  pitarak  d  ika  garhkata  tadah  tadtih  ftdata  tupranUayak  |  atta 
katftiuki  prayutHni  larkithi  atha  ray  Hit  urtei\ram  dadhatana  |  ....  IS. 
Ye  ehtha  pitaro  ye  eha  neks  y&iki  iha  vidma  ydmi  eha  na  prntidma  | 
fr«A  tetiha  yati  tejAtartdak  nadhalhir  yajnaiii  tukrifum  jiukatea  |  14. 
Ye  agnidagdhuk  ye  anaynidagdhdh  miulhye  divah  ivadkayil  rnddayante  | 
tehhik  irartU  atmaitim  etdni  yathilraiatk  tanvaai  kalpayaeva  | 

'•1  (-Y.S.  19,  49;  Sir.  11,  18).  Let  the  lower,  the  upper,  and 
the  middlo  Fathers,  the  offerers  of  soma,  arise.  May  these  Fathers, 
innocuous,  and  versed  in  righteousness,  who  havo  attained  to  (higher) 
life  (aw)  •»  protect  us  in  the  invocations.  2  ( - Y.  S.  1 9,  G8).  Let  this 
reverence  be  to-day  paid  to  the  Fathers  who  departed  first,  and  who 
(departed)  lust,  who  are  situated  in  tho  terrestrial  sphere,*4'  or  who  are 

*•"  Compare  tho  word  etura,  "Spirit,"  is>d  MMsMj  ut  nm  14,  Ulow. 

'"    i  •..:..1,.-t,-  A.V.  iviii.  2,49:    Te  *al  pti*)  pttanr  </*  pitammkHf  ytvririim  *m 


s  so 


200  HYMNS  P.ELATIN'O  TO  YAM  A  AN'D  THE  PATH 

now  among  the  powerful  races  (Ihc  gods) 5  (  —  V.  S.  19,  57}. 

Invited  to  tbeso  furourito  oblations  placed  on  tho  grass,  may  lie 
Father*,  tho  offerers  of  soma,  como  ;  may  they  hear  us,  may  they 

odfl  for  us,  and  preserve  us.     0  (=V.  8.  19,  62).  Bending  tic 
knee,  and  sitting  to  the  south,  do  yo  all  accept  this  sacrifice.    Do  us  so 
injury,   o   Fathers,  on   account  of  any   offence  which  we,   nfter 
HttODtf  af  DUB,  may  commit  against  you.    7  (  —  V.  S.  19,  63) 
upou  tho  ruddy  [woollen  ,  bestow  wealth  on  the  mortal  who 

worships  you.  Fathers,  bestow  this  wealth  upon  your  sons,  and  now 
grant  them  sustentince.  8  (=»V.  S.  19,  61).  Mny  Tama  feast  accord* 
ing  to  his  desire  on  the  oblations,  eager,  and  sharing  his  gratification 
with  the  eager  Fajbhthafl,  our  ancient  ancestors,  who  presented  the 
coma  libation.      10.  Come,  Agni,  with  a  thousand  of  those  naltnd 

Bt  Fathers,  adorers  of  tho  gods,  sitters  at  the  fire,  who  aro  troe, 
mIij  are  eaters  aud  drinkers  of  oblations,  and  who  aro  received  ial* 
the  Rome  chariot  with  Indrn  and  the  gods.  II  (  =  Y  ;- 
Come  hither,  yo  Agnishvutta  Fathers;  occupy  each  a  seat,  ye  wisa 
dlnotsn;  aaj  Uta  oWaUoju*"  which  bav«  baen  arranged  on  the  grass, 
and  theu  bestow  wealth  on  us,  with  all  our  offspring  *u  .  ...  13. 
Thou  ImOWOlt,  0  J.itavedaa,  how  many  those  Fathers  are  who  are  here 
and  who  arc  not  here,  these  whom  we  know  and  do  not  know ;  accept 


Ohtarilthurt  \  ye  aluXij/nnli  pptkitrm  via  ifyiim  tebhyak  jsitrihhyo  namtvi  wiAXfmm} 
■  Let  im  worship  •  a  thow  Fathers  who  aro  th«  fathers,  and  Ihote  wfco 

itc  tho  grandfather*,  of  our  father ;  thow  who  ho»c  entered  into  tho  atmoff hcrc,«t 
who  inhabit  dn  earth  oi  tbo  sky."    Sec  uUo  A.V.  xtiii,  3,  M. 
"'  Aeooafiag  tn  tbr  A.V.  iriii.  2,  28,  evil  spirita  aotuetinic*  como  along  with  the 
■   -:  #c  ittyatv  pitritAu  aMftkflfaf  j*atim*kkah  nnntrditJ  ckmrnnli  \  ptripmn 
>,t  bhiranti  oimat  pra  iKamhli  ytymit  \  "  May  Agra  blow  away 

from  this  larnrleo  thou  l>uyus  who  hare  no  thar*  in  tho  oblation*,  whether  they 
wear  gn*»  or  nbtfll  boCKSe,  who  coiiif,  entering  among  tliv  Father*,  •  " 
la."    Compare  V.  S.  ii.  30,  and  commentary. 
4,3  Compare  A.V.  ri   41,9:  m«  no  A&nthur  fukayo  i&iryj*,  jw  Itmuy'S  yi  ma 
Inntitt  tishujajf    |   amartyah   mortyan    abhi  nah  Mcbaihram   aj/mr  tUmtla  pnttrim 

jlmu  Htih  |  "  Lot  not  tho  tlivino  ru>hia,  who  aro  tbe  protector*  of  oar  bodies,  foraaks 
as.  Do  yo  who  ore  immortal  viirit  us  who  are  morula ;  put  intVi  u»  vitality  that  ■■ 
may  lire  longer.''     A.V.  viii.  ft,  15:   Qamlktrx;,  >brn,  ptmyn/*-im 

pitr'm  \  anil'Si  !■■■,  gSmi  yoMa  antam  •imum  haxau  |  •'  I  incite  the  Oattd- 

birnu,  Aptanuca,  serpents,  gods,  thoso  holy  men  the  Fathers,  the  »«ro  anil  Uir  oa. 
seen,  that  they  may  deatruj  tin*  ami  MnWihiirata.  SaMupr- 

Tan,  401,  then  ar«  wren  troop*  ul  i'ltrit  or  Fathers,  four  embodied  {mi 
aad  three  twtlilis*  {aiarint 


FUNERAL  HYMK  ADDRESSED  TO  AG XI. 


•J::  7 


tlio  Mcriflco  well  offered  with  the  oblations.  14  (-» V.  8.  19,  60).  Do 
thou,  o  aelf-reeplendeat  god44*  —  along  with  those  (Fathers)  who, 
"whether  they  hare  undergono  cremation  or  not,  arc  gladdened  by  our 
oblation — grant  us  this  (higher)  vitality  (aiH»lti),M  and  a  body  ac- 
cording to  our  desire." 

A  funeral  hymn  addressed  to  Agm*4*  (x.  16)  also  contains  somo 
rersoa  which  illus'.rntu  the  views  of  the  writer  regarding  a  fuluro  life: 

x.  16,  1.  J/u  enam  Agiu  ri  daho  ma  'iki  ioefu  sua  'tya  IvacAaik 
ch&tfiipc  m&  iarlram  |  gudd  iritam  krinnio  Julacedo  alhem  ennm  pra 
kmutflt  piirilhgah  \  2  8"fl*M  yauti  htnui  Jularnio  athtm  nam  pari 
daitut  pitribhgah  \  gada  aachhuti  atunUim  etam  atha  denlinJm  raianlr 
bhatCiti  |  3.  SHryath  chakthar  gnchhat*  cutam  &(mu  dgfim  cha  gaehhapri* 
tfiitlm  cha  dAtrrmand  \  apo  r«  gachha  gadi  lalra  U  hiiam  othndhithu  prati 
tnhfha  iariraih  |  4.  Ajo  bhagtu  tapatti  (urn  tapaira  law  U  iocfiit  f<>/*rfu 
tarn  U  arehih  |  yds  te  iixut  tanto  Jtllarrdat  tibhir  tahainafa  lulrilum  u 
lokam  |  6.  Ata  trija  punur  ague  pitribfigo  gut  te  dfiulai  charati  ttudha- 
M«A  |  dyw  rrwdnaA  n/ii  retu  £<thah  tangachhaldm  toned  Jnlartdak  |  6. 
Yat  U  kfUhnah  iakvnah  atuteda  pip'ilah  tarpah  uta  va  trapaJah  )  Agni* 
tod  piitam  ogadaui  trinvtu  Somai  tha  go  br<ihiminan  iniieia  | 

"  1.  Do  not,  Agni,  bum  up  or  consume  him  (the  deceased);  do  not 


**<  As  Agni  is  addressed  in  ihr  two  preceding  raw,  it  might  haTe  been  sutiposcd 
Ibst  be  ii  referred  to  in  this  epithet  nf  telf-resplendent  (nwrof),  or  soTereign  ruler, 
especially  aa  ttiu  tame  function  u  smrned  to  him  in  s.  18,  5,  at  is  assigned  to  tht> 

.HrrtMd  in  thiitenw.     But  the  commentator  on  tho  Vajsaueyl  Bakl 
60  (wbrre  th«  verso  occur*,  with  most  of  the  other*  in  this  lijtnu,  though  not  in  the 
tame  order),  understands  it  of  Yuma  ;  as  does  alas  Profaeor  Roth  (aeo  a.v.  oswairi) 
in  the  pe**aj>o  of  the  A.V.,  whore  it  inxurs  along  with  tmmSH,     B*S  nnt  note. 

Ml  This  word  alio  occurs  in  the  second  *ene  of  the  nut,  the  ltlth  hymn.  In  R.V. 
x.  it,  5,  is,  it  appears  to  be  employed  as  tho  pereoniflestion  of  a  pud  or  goddess. 
ProfoMor  Slulkr.  .'-.urn.  It. A  1 SC6).  p.  160,  Bole  S,  however,  eonnden 

that  "  there  ia  avtuiag  to  show  that  Aninlti  u  a  fcnmlo  tlcttr."    "  It  may  be  a  name 

r  Yams,  a*  Pmft-  -;  i>ut  it  tu»TuL*>  \k  >  umplr  inrocotioa,  owe  of  the 

oaea  ef  the  deity."  He  binurlf  render*  it  " guide  of  I 

,  W, it  ia  joinod  with  «r«ruf  :  y*  mk  pituA  pilar*  yr  pilamahak  y»  orirnMr  m;n  *n- 
larikilam  |  UiAgaA  •ror.td  ttmilir  mo  adga  ytAaraUi*  tawik  kalpay  :.  \  "  Ukf 
the  monoreti  (or  eelf-rr^j  ng)  who  heetow*  vitality  f».i  fatacrs 

and  grandnther*  of  our  Cither,  who  here  entered  the  wide  atmetpberc,  and  for  na  to- 
day, hediea  according  to  our  <k*irc." 

***  Areording  ta  Profaaor  Milllcr  (Funeral  Uitea  of  tho  Brahman*,  p.  xi.  f.)  loeno 
rersse  froa  thi»  bymn  are  repealed  after  those  from  hymn  11,  whilo  the  remains  ot 
the  dt parted  are  being  barat. 


JK8 


FUNERAL  IlYilN  ADDBESSEI)  TO  AQNI 


di88olvo  hi*  skin,  or  hit  body.'"  "When  thou  boa  matured ***  hiss,  i 
J  ittavedns,  then  scud  bim  to  the  Fathers.  2.  When  thou  matured 
him,  JitU.ved.is  then  consign  bim  to  the  Fathers.  When  he  •ball 
reach  that  state  of  vitality,  he  shall  then  fulfil  the  pleasure  of  the 
gods.  3.  Let  his  eye  go  to  the  sun,"'  his  breath  to  the  wind.  Go  to 
the  sky,  and  to  the  earth,  according  to  (the)  nature  (of  thy  serersl 
parts)  ;  or  go  to  the  waters,  if  thut  is  suitable  for  thee ;  enter  into  the 
plant*  with  tliy  members.  4.  As  for  his  unborn  part,  do  thou  (Agni) 
kindle  it  with  thy  heat ;  let  thy  flame  and  thy  lustre  kindle  it;  with 
those  forms  of  thine  which  are  auspicious  convey  it  to  the  world  of 
the  righteous.410    6.  Give  up  ugain,  Agni,  to  the  Fathers,  him  who 

441  Compare  A.V.  lrlii.  4,  10-13.  In  the  sixty-fourth  vsrst  of  the  tarns  hymn  rt 
>■  uid  :  <?*&  eo  Afntr  qjahad  liam  engam  pilrilckaiii  pitmtyan  jatarfdtik  |  lad  roS 
punar  a  pyayayami  ttinjafy  ttarjt  pitara  mSdayodAram  |  "  Whatever  limb  at  y*a 
Agni  JitUkKduj  left  behind,  when  conveying  you  to  the  world  of  tbu  Patbera,  that  I 
hero  restore  to  yua.     Kevcl  in  heurcn,  yo  FiuIu-to,  with  (ail)  your  members." 

*»  Compare  A.V.  xriii.  4,  12. 

**»  In  A.V.  viii.  2,  3.  a  man  dead,  or  in  danger  of  djinj,  ii  uddroed  in  tb«M 
words:  M/of  It  prtifinin  ntiilum  turyirk  thukuhiir  nhnm  for*  |  yml  It  manMi  tnyi 
lad  Mamytlmi  jirw  vitirn  anjnir  vtida  flktmfi  HUpan  |  "  I  bars  obtuinsd  thy  IfSSlk 
from  the  wind,  thine  cyo  from  the  ran  ,  1  plxct  in  thee  thy  wul  (mnmi) ;  hare  Ma- 
ui thy  limbs;  speuk,  uttering  (words)  with  thy  tongue."  Compare  A.V.  t. 
24,  0:  Surt/ad  oKakthutham  adhipatih  |  ••  Silryn  it  tho  superintending  lord  of  tht 
ejes ;"  and  A.V.  ii.  8,  31 :  Jsuryad  ehakihur  VdUih  pragma  punutmtfa  ri  iAoin  | 
••SQrya  occupied  the  eye,  and  Vnta  (the  wind)  tho  breath  of  Punish*  (or  man)."  8m 
also  A.V.  six.  43,  2, 3.     Compare  further  Plato,  Bcpub.  vi.  IB,  whew  8oerate*  says  of 

tho  cyo  .  'AAA'  ijXuottH<rrar6f  y  olpai  rvr  »tpi  raj  <W0^?«is  fy*7t£*w*»,    "1  regard  it 

[the  eye]  as  of  all  the  organs  of  sensation,  poncwing  the  moat  affinity  to  the  ■tin."  Ear. 
Suppl.  032  f.  'Odtr  i'tacaoror  tiT  rb  au/i  itptKiro,  'rnraufT  arq^Sf,  mviu  >Ur  wpii 
iiOipa,  fl)  triifia  47 1  yijf  "But  each  slsjBMBt  i»f  the  body  hai  departed  to  the 
quurUT  whence  it  came,  the  breath  to  tho  aether,  the  body  itself  to  the  earth."  A 
■bubal  idea  U  evpmsod  in  a  ret**  of  Goethe,  whieh  I  had  formerly  read,  and  fee  • 
copy  of  which,  with  the  context,  I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Aufrt-ckt.  The  paaeag* 
oecuis  in  the  intruductiun  to  the  Farbealohtf  (Ed.  1668,  raL  UiriL  p.  6),  and  is  at 
follows:  "  IlicThci  crinnrrn  wir  una  dcr  alten  ioniichen  Schulr,  wclcbe  mil  so  grosser 
liedeulsamknit  lrnni.i  wiuderholte :  nur  von  gleichem  wards  Oleiohea  eikansjl;  wia 
nueh  dnr  Worto  oinw  alton  Myitiknra,  din  wir  in  dm  tec  una  Ikimon  Wgsndenpauea 
ausdrucken  Bklohti 

WsV  nichtdat  Aug*  sonncnhtift, 

Wit  konnteu  wir  das  I.iclit  erblii:kcn  t 

L  >>:'  nicbt  in  una  dot  Oottat  eigne  Kraft, 

Wir  kuimt'  11  in  (iotllichea  euUuekua  t 
Jen*  anmittelbnw  Verwandttchaft  dea  LichUa  and  det  Auget  wird  niomand  IsQgaasi, 
tbtt"  tu.w. 

'*•  In  AV.  xviii.  2, 36,  Agui  is  tuli tuU.d  to  burn  mildly,  and  to  spend  hit  fury  as  ths 


sou  ..a 

ftffMt. 


VAUlUtJS  INVOCATIONS  OF  AGNI. 


•2.J'J 


i  offered  to  thec  with  oblation*,  rutting  on  life,  let  him  approach 
(hii)  remains ;  let  him  meet  with  hia  body,  o  Jatavodo*.  6.  Whatever 
part  of  thee  any  black  bird,  or  ant,  or  serpent,  or  beast  of  prey,  has 
torn,  may  Agni  restore  to  thro  oil  that,  and  Soma  who  has  onti md 
into  the  Brahman*. "  Compare  Vajiisaneyi  Sanhita,  xviii.  61.  Again 
ytmmjni  saitwd  yhritma  dirt/em  tuparMm  HaJMtf  hrihanfam  |  Unateyalk 
/sswsta  braiktusiya  tuhfapam  to  ruhdn&k  adhi  noian  utlnmam  |  52. 
Tmau  te  paktkat  ajarau  ptitatrinau  yabhyum  rakth<\Ati  aptthmti  A  fit*  | 
i&hkyam  paitma  trukritHm  u  lokam  yatra  r*4kayo  jtfjfmuA  piatkoatajdlji 
jard***.  I  *1-  "  With  power  and  with  butter  I  attach  Agni,  the 
Qsjagtial  bird,  mighty  in  energy :  through  him  may  wo  go  to  the  sphere 
of  the  auD,  ascending  tho  sky  to  the  highest  heaven.  52.  Borne  by 
those  thine  undecaying,  flying  pinions,  wherewith  thou,  Agni,  slnyeat 
the  Kakshascs,  may  we  soar  to  the  world  of  the  righteous,  whither 
tho  ancient,  earliest-born  rishis  have  gone." 

In  various  part*  of  the  A.V.  Agiii  ||  -imilarly  addrc&u-d.  Thus  in 
vi.  120,  1.  Yad  antarikiiiam  pp'thirTm  uta  dyiim  ana  mularam.  pitiram 
tdjikiHuima  |  ayath  laimdd  garhapciyo  no  Aynir  ud  in  nayati  tulritaty* 

woods  and  on  the  earth  (<«m  tap*  mi  '.'i  tape  A>jm  ma  Mnroaa  tip*  \  r*m*km 
imakma  aitu  Ir  prilAirjtam  attu  pad  kmrttk).  The  Tnittrlya  Brihmann  has  the  fol- 
lowing pajsmge  :  iii  10,  11,  1  :  Au»  chid  Art  rui  atmhl  lokat  prtlpa  itmiinaj*  rrdtt 
miym  okam  urmi"  iti  |  kaitkit  ira&  hkaih  na  pratijanati  og*imu$Jko  Ad  raw 
lkum*-t&ntaii  nam  lokam  >»  pratyjawli  I  alko  ya  ka  rra  rlam  a/ymm  *n-i(rj«  rfia 
M  ***  nrmal  Mat  prtti/a  atminain  res*  "ayam  akam  ttmi"  iti  |  ta  num  lokam 
pratijanati  oka  u  cka  na  mam  tat  Atitrah  naryum  lokam  tbhi  rnkati  |  "  Oae  man 
derwrtinr  from  thin  world  knows  himself  that  '  this  in  I  myself.'  another  doss  not 
recognize  his  own  world.  Bewildered  by  Agni,  and  overcome  by  smoke,  ha  does  not 
recognize  his  own  world.  Xow  ho  who  knows  this  Agni  8iritr*,  when  he  ilrparts 
frowi  this  world  knows  binuelf,  'that  this  is  I  myself.'  He  recognises  his  own  world. 
This  84 Tit™  carries  him  t*  the  heavenly  world."  A  few  lines  further  on  it  is  said  that 
the  days  and  Bights  «uok  up  in  the  aut  world  the  treaiurc  of  the  man  who  doss  not 
psasws  a  particolar  sort  of  know  Isdgo, « tul»t  b<>  who  knows  Agni  Siritra  finds  bis  trea- 
son not  sacked  up  (fast  Ad  mnnamrUmtkc  aoiuthmi*  hki  itrajkim  dkayanlt  |  .  .  .  . 
«r*«  ye  karva  ttam  ap»im  tHritram  cub  tatyn  ha  era  nksrHrtui  emuthmin  leka 
itvatikim  m  dkayanti).  The  Tsitt.  Br.  ii.  4,  2, 6,  un  of  Agni  i  Prahum  ndalkam 
wupaiymmnitak  a  lnntnm  Ajtitr  Jirym  UtSita  |  tram  not  t«ni*r  *t*  SSflW  Afw 
tram  pantkih  Ihncaii  Jeraytintk  |  itaya  'ftu  prUkf Viw  tayam  'irukima  mtka  drraik 
mtdmtmciilam  tmtdevta  |  "  Agni,  eiploriag  the  ancient  abodo.hss  ei  traded  theoelastfal 
cord.  Tbou,  Agni,  art  oar  cord,  sad  onr  bridge :  thou  art  the  path  which  nnndnsta 
to  tho  gods.  By  thee  nay  we  ascend  to  the  summit  (of  heaven;,  and  there  live  ia 
jarful  fellowship  with  the  gods."  The  asm*  Br&hsuLga  ssys  in  anotW  plaec,  i.  C, 
1,  8,  that  the  stars  are  the  houaes  of  the  cods,  snd  that  wboevor  kaowa  this  ] 
looses  {intyrikSk  rsi  nsiikwrani  |  y,k  mm  seats  sriAJ  ens  Marwr i). 


300 


SUMMARY  OF  THE  CONCEPT/IuM  B 


hlnm  |  "Whatever  injury  wo  hare  don©  to  air,  earth,  or  aky,  to 
father  or  mother,  may  Agni  Chirhapatyn  (delivering)  us  from  that, 
convey  us  up  to  the  world  of  righteousness."  xii.  2, 45.  Jiean&m  oyui, 
prti  tira  team  Ayne  pilrlnHA  lottm  apt  gachhantu  y*  tnriUik  |  •■  Do 
thou,  Agni,  prolong  the  lives  of  living  •  y  those  who 

are  dead  go  to  tho  world  of  the  Fathers."  xriii.  8,  71.  Arabk*** 
jatacti**  ttjtutad  haro  a*(u  It  \  iartram  aiya  tandaha  athaimaA  tttcla 
tuArittim  v  hie  |  "Seize  him,  Agni,  let  thy  heat  be  powerful;  bum 
his  body ;  then  place  him  in  the  world  of  the  righteous."  xriiL  4,  9. 
Purvo  'gnii  tzd  lapatu  lam  purtutXi  iam  paitkil  Lapatu  g&rhapatyik  | 
dakthinugnii  ic  lapatu  itrma  tar  me  uttarato  tnadhyato  anlariluhiid  diio 
diio  Agnt  fOlipQM  ghorut  I  10.  Ytiyam  Agne  iantamabhU  UmiUir 
ij&nam  abhi  lokafa  iMrgam  |  aicuh  bh&M  priihfict\!>o  tahatha  yttr* 
dttnih  Mdham&dam  madanli  |  "  Hay  the  eastern  fire  warm  thee  pro- 
pitiously in  front  (or  to  tho  cost),  and  the  gnrhapetyn  fire  behind  (or 
to  tho  west) ;  may  the  southern  fire  warm  thee,  as  thy  defender  and 
protector:  Agni,  presorve  from  everything  dreadful  on  the  north,  in 
the  middle,  from  the  air,  and  from  every  aide.  10.  Do  ye  (the 
various  forms  of)  Agni,  become  horses,  and  carry  Ibo  aacriflccr  on 
your  bacl(s  in  your  most  gracious  forms  to  heaven,  where  men  hold 
festival  with  iln-  gods." 


(4)  Summitry  of  tht  cmttptwm  eourtyti  in  tke  preceding  quctalicm. 

I  shall  now  extract  from  these-  texts  tuid  others  a  nummary  of  tho 
cunerptiuns  which  tiny  convey. 

Y:  urn  is  the  uou  of  Vivaavat  (ix.  113,  8;  x.  14,  1  [=.\  V 
I,  49] ;  x.  14,  5;  x.  68,  1  ;  x.  60,  10),  and  of  Sorayyfi,  tho  immortal 
ler  of  Tvashtri  (x.  17,  1,  2).    He  «  elsewhere  said,  as  Professor 
Jtoth  considers  *"  (see  ubovo),  to  have  been  one  of  the  original  pair 


•"  Journal  of  the  Otnann  Oriental  Society,  it.  426  ;  JournU  of  American  Ori 
:ioo  ;  DlutottiOMef  Niruku.  p.  lort.     A*  Profaaoi 
above,  p.  2S8)  Unit  Yamn  w.u  ngankd  bj  the  Yedk  posts  as  the  firrt  man. 
explain*  m  follow*  (Lciturw,  2nd  8tfice,  p.  (14  if)  Qu  |  abash  lia 

to  bo  transformed  into  •  -.  at  tho  dead :  "Let  us  imagine,  th«a.'"  he  says, 

"  M  woll  or  it  yama,  twin,  WW  nnocl  an  tht  name  of  the  ertning,  ee  the 

wit  mi;  sun,  anil  wo  dull  be  able  perhaps  to  understand  how  in  the  end  Yam*  cam 
to  bo  the  kinjt  of  tli.  A  park  it  uul  the  god  of  death.  As  the  Eon  wa»  to  the  aerrr 
thinkers  the  source  of  life,  the  West  wa»  to  them  iVYrriri,  Uie  esaltu,  the  Uod  uf 


r  of 

mul 
(a* 

a.  ha 


CONVEYED  IN  TIIE  PRECEDING  QUOTATIONS. 


301 


human  being*  (x.  10,  2),  and  to  have  sprung  from  the  Gnndharra,  a 
At  ny  of  the  utmoephcre,  and  his  wife  (x.  10,  4).  In  the  urnm-  lnnm 
(patriot)  ho  i»  declared  to  havo  resisted  tho  solicitntiona  of  Ui 
sister  Yam!  to  form  a  sexual  union  with  lier  for  tho  continuation  ot 
the  specieB.*19  lie  was  the  first  of  mortals  who  died,  and  discovered 
the  -way  to  the  other  world;  ho  guides  other  mi  a  thJUter,  and  as- 
sembles them  in  a  home,  which  is  secured  to  them  for  ever  (x.  14,  1,  2; 
JLV.  tL  28,  3;  xviiL  1,  49,  60;  xriii.  3,  13)."*     In  one  place  he  is 

n-i'.     nt'd  ii  iwmiiirg  with  the  yy'<j  udn  i  i> :..'';,  boa,  K.v.  .\. 

death.  The  »ou,  conccircd  n*  Kiting  or  dying  every  day,  was  the  first  wlio  had 
trodden  the  path  of  lift  front  East  to  Wi»t—  the  first  mortal — the  drat  to  show 
us  the  way  win  g  m  •  u«r«  i»  run,  and  our  mil  seta  in  the  fut  W«t". .  . .  "That 
V .mill's  character  is  tolar  might  bo  guessed  from  bu  being  called  the  ion  of  Vires* 
tut.  Vivaavat,  like  Yuma,  i»  sometime*  considered  a*  •••mling-  death.  R.Y  ue. 
67,  20  ;  '  May  the  sbuil  of  Vivaxvat,  o  Ailitvm,  the  poisxied  orrow,  not  strike  us 
wo  arc  old !  " '  [And  in  A.  V.  xix.  fl,  7.  it  ■  "id  .  ••  Mar  Mitra,  may  Yaruuu, 
nniy  Vivasrat,  may  tho  Beds'  (death]  be  favourable  to  us  (/ism  m 
VarmthtJi  fait  I'itatm*  tarn  Au(aknh).     On    the  either  hum]  Vi\ 

rfssi  preserving  from  Yum:i.     Thus  in  A  '■  .  62,  it  U  uiil :    i'i..m.ig 

no  amfitMtt*  lUJk'itu  ptirailu  mrilyur  atAfiUm  saA  nit*  |  inan  rtiiAatu  purn. 
aAdn  a  jnri»ma  ma  iku  etiim  a*n\>  Yamam  gulf  |  "  May  Vivaavat  jiUco  w  in  a 
i of  immortality.  Miy  death  pais  away,  sad  dmthlewncas  come  tans.  May  bo 
iip-   nun  ton  esuBfi    He]  Ifash  nUfeiaotdspai  to  Vim:i."  —  j.m .] 

....■•  His  (Yuma's)  own  scat  i*  called  the  house  of  tho  jrods  (x.  13ft,  7)  ;  sad  thoso 
words  follow  immediately  on  a  Terse  in  which  it  u  said  :  '  the  abyss  i<  (trrtched  out 
in  tho  Eait,  the  outgoing  is  in  the  West.''  (In  a  note  tho  following  are  referred  to 
as  additional  passage*  to  bo  consulted,  lift,  K.  V.  i.  1 16,  2  ;  rii.  33,  0  ;  i  <,. 
o;  i.  12,  G  ;  ft  13,  2,  -I  i  i.  63,  3  ;  x.  CI.  3  ;  x.  123,  6.)  "These  indications, 
though  fragmentary,  are  sufficient  to  show  that  the  character  of  Yams,  such  as  wo 
find  it  in  the  last  book  of  tin:  Rijr-vedo.  aright  wrll  have  been  suggested  by  the 
sotting  sun,  personified  as  the  leader  of  the  human  race,  as  himself  a  mortal,  yet  as  a. 
husg.  a*  the  ruler  of  tha  departed,  ai  worshipped  with  tho  fathers,  as  the  Erst  witness 
of  aa  immortality  to  be  enjoyed  by  tho  father*,"  vto.  I  may  remark  that  in  tho 
S'atap.  Br.  xiv.  1.  3.  4.  Vuiim  it  identified  with  the  tun  ;  but  he  is,  a  little  further  on, 

xiv.  S,  8,  Hi  •iimUii-.  Idnnhld  with  V.mi. 

•**  See  Professor  Koth's  observation*  on  this  dialogue  in  the  Journal  of  tho  Ameri- 
can Oriental  Society,  iii.  383  t. 

*•»  8eo  Professor  Roth's  remarks  on  these  passages  la  the  Journals,  etc ,  shove 
rssVtTwl  to.  In  the  Journal  of  the  Oennnii  urn  BStJ  .""^iety,  iv.  427,  he  remarks  on 
these  hymns :  "  Wc  here  find,  not  without  astonishment,  beautiful  coaceptiona  on  im- 
mortality, expressed  in  unadorned  language  with  child-like  cnaTiotioe.  If  it  were 
accessary,  we  mi^ht  here  find  tlx'  most  powerful  weapons  agsiiift  the  view  which  has 
lately  been  rented,  and  proclaimed  as  new,  that  Persia  was  the  only  hirthplaee  of 
the  idea  of  immortality,  and  that  even  tho  nation*  of  Europe  hod  <L.-irrd  it  frimi  that 
<fnarter  ;  n  if  the  religion*  spirit  of  every  gifted  raco  wm  nut  able  |o  arrive  at  II  by 
Its  own 


•OS 


SUMMARY  OF  TUE  CONCEPTION'S 


135,  1  **  {yatmin  tfikths  npaJaie  devaih  $ctapihat$  YomaK).  He  is  t 
king,  and  dwells  in  celestial  light,  in  the  innermost  sanctuary  of 
heaven,  ix.  113,  7,  8  (see  above,  p.  226,  and  below,  wbere  the  passage 
will  bo  quoted  at  greater  length),  where  the  departed  behold  Ida 
associated  in  blessedness  with  Varuua  (x.  14,  7).  He  grants  luminous 
abodes  in  hearca  to  tho  pious  (x.  14,  0),  who  dwell  with  him  is 
festive  enjoyment  (x.  14,  8,  10).  In  the  A.Y.  xriii.  2,  32,  he  is  said 
to  be  superior  to  Vivasvat,  and  to  bo  himself  surpassed  by  none  (  Yamdi 
paro  'van  Virattan  tatsk  para  fit  na  ati  paiyami  linehana). 

In  llio  Rig-veda  Ytuna  is  nowhere  represented  (as  he  is  in  the  lata 
1  mliun  mythology) w  as  having  anything  to  do  with  the  future  punish- 
ment of  the  wicked.  In  fact,  the  hymns  of  that  Yeda  contain,  as  far 
us  I  am  aware,  no  prominent  mention  of  any  such  penal  retribution ; 
but  the  passages  which  appear  to  recognize  the  existence  of  a  Tartarus 
will  bo  quoted  further  on.  Nevertheless,  Yuma  is  still  to  some  extent 
on  object  of  terror.  In  x.  14,  10-12,  he  ia  represented  as  having  two 
insatiable  dogs,  with  four  eyes  and  wide  nostrils,  which  guard  tho  road 
to  hii  abode,  and  whioh  the  departed  are  advised  to  hurry  past  with  all 
possible  speed.  These  dogs  axe  said  to  wander  about  among  men  as 
bis  messengers  (x.  14,  12),  no  doubt  for  the  purpose  of  summoning 
them  to  the  presence  of  their  muBter,  who  is  in  another  place,  x.  1G5, 4, 
identified  with  death,  and  in  described  ax  sending  a  bird  as  the  herald 
of  doom  (ya*ya  duiah  prahitah  uha  flat  Uumai   i'amdya  namo  atiu 

'"  In  A.\.  xriii.  4,  3,  tho  Aditjiw  aro  laid  to  feast  on  honey  ia  faction  (aaasMa 
ILakiliayanti). 

**»  According  to  tlio  PuiiajBJ,  "  Ynms  fulfils  tlir  officii  of  judgn  of  the  daad,  at 
u.ll  as  sovereign  of  thedumned;  nil  thnt  die  appearing  before  him,  sad  being  eoa- 
frontiMl  with  Cliitr;i-ii[>U,  the  recorder,  by  whom  their  action*  hare  been  rtgistansl. 
The  rirtuous  arc  thence  conveyed  toSwiirjra,  or  Elysium,  whilst  the  wicked  art  drisn 
total  fflftrarl  n  ffam  of  rfsraka,  or  Tartarus."   (Wilton,  Viihnn  PS  i'iof 

l)i.  Hall't  cd.  vol.  2).    ChitniHiijrta  i»  dm-ribtu  in  tbu  r««lli.wiii*r  taurine  and  extra- 
vagant »tylo  in  tho  Vrihnnii.irudiya  Purirja,  quoted  in  Professor  Aafkeht'e  Catalegas 
of  tho  Bo.ll.  SanJt.  MSS.,  p.  10,  note:  Pr*teyamiud*-nirfk*Ao  miput&lri  state 
prvlihaif  |  riJ>fitt-pr*ihi<iwHtair  Mimo  d«itrimi<ul-b>nf*-fmf<ttak  |  fsjm*  fm>«- 

owffla>  raktaiiho  iliry/iaiiiiiikah   |   damtitra-karala-ttlano  "J-T'-'| ''-r'-nrfl   | 

•Hrifyn-/fiirijrfiAAir  yuitai  chitragttpto  ribhUhntyib  I  "  Tho  dreadful  ChitragUpta. 
v  iili  it  t«iic«  like  that  issuing  from  the  clouds  at  the  mundane  dueolutiua,  gltrminf 
like  a  mountain  of  collrrium.  terrible  with  lightning-Uke  weapona,  having  thirty- 
two  arnu.  ii  big  ss  three  rcjanat,  red-eyed,  long-nosed,  his  face  furnished  vita 
Unrolen  and  projecting  teeth,  hi*  eyes  reaorabling  oblong  pond*,  bearing  <W* 
an  1  diseases.'' 


CONVEYED  IN  THE  PRECEDINO  QUOTATIONS. 


90S 


mrxlyan,  compare  A.V.  vi.  29,  1  ff.).  And  in  a  verse  of  tho  A.V. 
(xviii.  2,  27),  death  is  said  to  be  the  mossenger  of  Yams,  who  convert 
tho  spirit*  of  men  to  the  abode  of  their  forefathers.  In  another  place 
(B..V.  x.  97,  16)  deliverance  is  sought  from  the  bonds  of  Yama,  as  well 
as  those  of  Vnruna  {mttnthtmtu  m&  inputhyud  atho  Vtntny&d  ula  \  atha 
Yavuuya  padbliat,  eee  also  A.V.  viii.  7,  28).  In  K.V.  L  38,  5,  too, 
where  it  is  said  (mil  vo  mrigo  no  yattiu*  jaritd  Ih&d  ajoihycth  \  palkd 
■■ya  gad  upa)  "  Lot  not  thy  worshipper  bo  disregarded  like  a  wild 
animal  in  a  pasture,  or  go  along  the  road  of  Yamo,"  Yama  is  equiva- 
lent to  death.  In  the  following  verse  (already  quoted)  of  the  A.V.  |£ 
28,  ^i,  also,  Yama  is  identified  with  Mrityu  (death):  "  Reference  be 
to  Yama,  death,  who  first  readied  the  river,  spying  out  the  road  for 
many,  who  is  lord  of  these  two-footed  and  four- looted  creaturea." 
(This  verse  coincides  in  part  with  R.V.  x.  14,  I,  quoted  above.) 
Compare  also  A.V.  v.  30,  12;  vL  63,  2.) 

Whan  the  remains  of  the  deceased  have  been  placed  upon  the 
funeral  pile,  mid  tho  process  of  cremation  has  begun,  Agni,  the  god  of 
fire,  is  prayed  not  to  scorch  or  consume  tho  departed,  not  to  tear 
a-'imlii  hjfl  hU in  N  Hi  hm!^,  bflt  tfifll  t In-  ||OM  1i.i-.l-  done  tin. ir 
work,  to  convey  to  the  Fathers  the  mortal  who  has  been  presented  to 
him  as  an  offering.  Tho  eye  of  tho  departed  is  bidden  to  go  to  the 
sun ;  his  breath  to  tho  wind ;  and  his  different  members  to  tho  sky, 
the  earth,  the  waters,  or  tho  plants,  according  to  their  several  afri 
As  for  his  unborn  part  (ajo  bhagah),  Agni  is  supplicated  to  kindle  it 
with  his  heat  and  flame,  and,  assuming  his  most  auspicious  form,  to 
convey  it  to  tho  world  of  the  righteous  (x.  1 6,  1  -5  ;  Vaj.  Sanh.  xviii. 
51  f.)."*  Before,  however,  this  unborn  part  can  complete  its  course 
from  earth  to  the  third  heaven,  it  has  to  traverse  a  vast  gulf  of  dark- 
ness.*"    Leaving  behind  on  earth  all  that  is  evil  and  imperfect,  and 

***  In  the  8'xtiip.  Br.  li.  I,  1,  1,  •  man  is  said  to  be  thrice  born:  first  from  his 
'  sad  mother,  the  second  time  through  uerillcc,  and  tho  third  time  when,  *ft*r 
i  sad  cremation,  he  onor  mnw  emerge*  into  ti/s  (trie  ha  tai  pttnuXo  jiystt   | 
mm  na  antra**  <hn  <i<Mi  pitmi  cKa  a«rt  Jayult   \  atha  yam  yajttah  apanamaliaa 
'  yojat*  tad  driliyam  jSyatt  \  ataa  yotrt  mriyati  yatra  mam  af  mar  aiiyCUdAasi 
M  yal  tatah  tamiAartti  lat  tr\t7yinj<iy<ttt). 

*-"  A .  V  .a.  0.  1 .  X  nay  nam  a  raiknrr*  niritSm  lokan  apt  gaihkatu  prafmmm  | 
/Triad  tamniui  tahwdaa  maknmi  ajo  nakam  ikramalAm  tritlyam  |  S.  I'ra  pad*  'M 
nnto</hi  dmttManlam  yal  ekatknra  ittddkaiS  iaphair  5  kramaliim  prajii*a*  \  llriti 
tumuiui  aaimdXH  vipa  'yaaa  a/a  rtalam  akramuUim  IfilTpam  j  From  the  content*  of 


-".  I- 1 


LTS  OF  THE  PRECEDING  QUOTATION'S. 


proceeding  by  the  paths  which  the  fathers  trod  (U.V.  x.  It.  7 
•pirit,  inTested  with  a  lustre  like  that  of  the  god*.  A.V.  xi.  1,  37  (yeas 
itvnk  jijotUhd  Ji/tlM  udAi/an  braknattdanam  paktvd  tulyitaiya  lotam  | 
Una  gcikma  tuhfitaty*  iokaih  tvar  arokanto  abhi  ntikam  uttamam),  soar* 
to  tho  realm*  of  eternal  light  (ix.  113,  7,)  in  a  car,  or  on  wing 
h.  ?,l,  •)),  oa  the  undcea\  in-  pinions  wherewith  Agni  alay*  the 
abases  ( Viij.  Saoh.  xviii.  62),  wafted  upwurds  by  tho  Moruta,  fanned  I 
aoft  and  gentle  breezes,  and  refrigerated  by  showers  (A.V.  xtiii. 
21  fF.)  j    recovers  there  it*  ancient  body  in  a  complete  (A.V.  XTiii. ! 


terse  2  (where  tlir  aj'n  u  said  to  V  enrrinl  t->  lndra  n  fin  iharo),  and  frosa  lit* 
iiii'iitiiin  '>r  '•  In « >f«  "  in  TOM  3,  I  urn  imtv  In]  in  think  thai  these  ti-nesi  ntitHl 
jroat,  and  not  to  tho  nntHini  spirit  (both  bciug  demoted  by  khi  word  r/jj,  althoasja 
xprcsaiim*  term  mnro  properly  applicable  to  th«  Inttor  than  to  the  fernstr. 
In  any  com,  bffwmt,  ihc  tohi  prove  that  any  being  proctodiag  from  earth  to 
hravrn  has  to  traverse  a  region  of  darkooe*  before  he  can  teach  hi*  destiaatioa.  I 
translate  a*  follows:  ••Convey  him  ;  earn-  him .  In  -aniiiag,  go  to  the 

m.ria  <>i  the  righteous.    Crowing  the  gloom,  in  many  direction*  Immcase,  M  the 
gout  oseend  to  Bu  third  brawn 2.  W**!i  hi*  fcot  if  he  ha*  committal  wiehed- 

un<Untanding,l«t  him  aiecnd  with  filMBMdlioeA.    OroadngtitogIoo*B,( 
in  many  diiv  the  pel  MMnd  ii»-  third  beevan/1     Compare  li.V,  i. , 

(«=A.V.  vii.  i3,  7)  quoted  ■ban  Lfl  lb*.  Bootfofl  on  Surya,  p.  UML      In  the1 
S.inli.  xxxi.   18,  also,  the  peat  Puruaha,  of  nn-Uke  hri'.-htnusj  (oVirs— .ewi pa),  u 
aaiil  tod  tin'  tl.irknrsc  (/ijhjijjiiA  partutai).    See  nUo  Mann,  IT.  342.    The 

commentator,  on  this  latter  postage,  bowcrer,  n*  well  a*  Both,  a.r.  imuhu,  nader* 
atandi  tho  phruo  diutamm  tamat,  "  darkntsa  hard  to  cross,"  aa  referring  to  fcrlL 

It  tin'  phrases  aiDimmam  lamat  and  unJk*m  U  i<Uufcd  further  00, 

The  wonl  a/a  HMOl  to  have  tho  sense  of  "  tho  unhom  "  ia  different  paaaaagea  of  the 
R.V.,  and  in  A.V.  j,  7,  31  (sec  Biilitlingk  and  Both,  ».r.,  2.  «/■]  ;  but  it  out  law 
the  sense  of  "(rant"  throughout  the  whole  of  A.V.  ix.  4,  thnngh  B.  and  R.  addaee 
rerse  7  o»  one  of  tho  place*  where  it  mean*  •'  unborn."  Thai  terse,  bowwttr,  may 
be  rendered  thns :  "  Tin?  pint  i*  Agni :  thujr  call  the  goat  light ;  they  a»y  that  a  goat 
is  to  be  giTcn  by  n  living  man  to  the  priest  A  goat,  when  given  ia  this  world  by  a 
In  In  vit.::  "i;m.  disperse*  tho  gloom  afar  {,4ft  dkfltb  xj'am  u  j'yotir  UKar  ajamjit*ti 
Ar,i/,u»rr  U<<i«m  oAu/i  I  tijat  tamumri  mpu  Kanti  liuram  tumin  hie  irmddadAamnm 
iettak)."  In  the  mime  way  it  i*  said,  in  verse  10  :  Jjat  irUiikt  tridim  trip. 
rUhfl,4  nuktuya  prithtKt  tndiruSuniii  dodhuti  |  panrkniuhua  eewaseay  •''/*- 
|  "The  .;;n  panekMuAina,  gives  to  a  print,  place*  him  who  bestows  it 
in  tho  third  lu-ivcn,  in  tho  third  sky,  on  the  third  summit,  on  the  top  of  the 
hes'tn,"  ami  in  vn»t  '11:  "  TIu»  ■/*  yuaeasssfawa  is  aa  illimitable  obToriag." 
In  the  A.V.  XTiii.  2,  sS,  tlierc  are  said  to  be  three  hoarsnt:  "The  watery 
(«<&i»r>jf i)  hiavcn  in  the  lowest,  the  pilttmnti  is  the  intermediate  beaten,  and  she 
third  u  the  prmdjfma,  In  which  the  Father*  dwell"  (uib/ncwx?  afyaav  <it«ma  piu- 

■MaTafld    |    triliyit  ha  prariyaar  Hi  yaiynm  pilanlf  omU).     This  IgTC** 

with  the  mention  of  the  third  heaven  in  A.V.  ix.  S,  1.    Three  (1  V<i*t| 

are  lite  mentioned  in  P.-V.  rii.  101,  4  ;  and  in  R.V.  vii.  101,  11, three  earths  {ii»rt4 


FURTHER  QUOTATIONS  OX  THE  SUBJECT  OP  PARADISE,  ETC.     305 

24  S.m  and  glorified  form,"*  meet*  with  the  forefather*  who  are  living 
in  festivity  with  Yatna,  obtain*  from  him,  when  recognised  by  him  M 
one  of  his  own  (A.V.  xviii.  i>,  :i7},  a  diltel  ,].|i-  abode  (R.V.  x.  14, 
8-10),  and  enters  upon  a  morn  pcrftot  lift  ijc.V.  x  II.  8;  x.  15, 
14;  x.  16,  2,  5),  which  is  crowned  with  the  fulfilment  of  all  desires 
(ix.  113,  9,  11),  is  paused  in  the  presence  of  the  god*  (x.  14,  14),  and 
employed  in  the  fulfilment  of  their  pleasure  (x.  16,  2). 

(5)  Further  quotations  from  the  hymns  on  the  subject  of  paradise  and 
fulurt  pHHuhmtnt. 

In  the  following  passages  of  the  A.V,  on  expectation  is  expressed 
that  tlic  family  rulalions  will  bo  maintained  in  the  next  world : — 
xii.  3,  17:  Stargam  Mam  abhi  no  nayUsi  tarn  jilyaya  tiahu  pntiaifi 


yrichirfr  orfio  nun  ■  iVvfifO .    Professor  lloth.  mt.  die.  refers  to  other  ptnagM,  among 

which  it  IIV.  t.  lil),  S,  Tad  ull-um  IbntC  ma<IAy*nt  i-a  y*J  rS  amwu  ».<A.i£A»« 

•  /An  |  •'  W'li.  thrr.  fi.r:uii  ii--  Marat*,  jo  ntv   in  the  highnrt,  middle,  or  lowset, 

•ky."     Bm  A.V.  iv.  'JO,  J,  - -■,.  fan  un.  thrc*  heavens  and  three  earth*  ((imrfiwi 

litr.S  y,i" .i 1*71) •  mill  A.V.  vi.  21,  *aj»  Ultra  am  three  earths,  of  which  oar  earth 

(*Au«0  i<  ihprithit'u  iinim  An  bhumr  uttomd). 

"•It  :    said  Ihnt  the  man  who  btstowi  mi  aja  puneAaitrUx*, 

UrgtHSW  (dntj\to~i-tyi,tti/nim  :    compare  kirmf-t-jyoluAlUH,  A.V.  r. 

9,  6),  shall  not  hare  hit  bone*  broken,  or  his  marrow  sucked  out,  hut  shall  be  intro- 
duced wkcle  and  cntiru  (into  he«von) :  rene  23  {h*  ttny~uih»--i  MinJpSt  m  m-J/n* 
m'ntAayrt  \  mrtam  mam  ttiiwiuyt  Him  iJim  pra  reiayet  |  26.  8tarf*m  lokom 
«/■*/«  ye  ">iot  ptnthawUiHam  dakiAiuyjmiitAain  itsZti '.  These  passage*,  in  which 
ihu  departed  are  said  to  recover  thttr  toddy  onranizatiun  in  all  its  completeness,  Sinn 
■  striking  contrast  to  th*  representation!  in  tho  numeric  poems  regarding  the  on- 
■rthstanrial  nator*  of  the  ghost*  of  tho  depart  <d.  1  ho  pusago  of  th*  Odyssey,  ii. 
S&S.  'ii,  iu  ■fciofl  A.lull.-  •.  i!»  OljwM  ih  it  it  would  rather  be  the  dart 

of  •  poor  man  on  earth  than  ruin  over  all  the  fllftrted.  1  llnd,  however,  the  fol- 
lowing remarks  of  Professor  Weber  (lud.  Stud.  ii.  MM,)  on  the  word*  ytubi  trapm 
ttUA  "  as  in  a  droant  *o  in  the-  world  of  the  Fathers,"  Katuu  Upomshad, 

«i.  5.     "  This  it  evidently  a  popular  conception,  according  to  whieh  the  souls  of  the 

U  -.,  Hk|  t l.o—  -  bj  in.    Grecian  Had**,  experience  no  waking,  but  only  a  ki' 
dreamy  hfc.    I  hart  oa  yet  found  this  idea  (which  at  a  later  period  entirely  du- 
appeart)  only  in  the  S'aUpatha  Brihmaoa,  lii.  9,  2,  2,  win  'wing  ex- 

ptanation  of  V«j.  X»nh.  SO,  It:  yadijigtod  ymii  input  ssjaftsi  (Aflnw  inyta  (if 
we  have  committed  situ,  sleeping  or  waking]  is  given ;  mtumAyoA  mi  jajsntsm 
ptUrnh  mplan  |  m*jiiuAj/j-Ai7ii»».i*A  tkm  mk  filrikitwitAacA  mtiuA^i  |  [•Men 
are  what  is  awake ;  the  Fathers  what  it  asleep.  He  fives  hint  from  the  ains  of 
mca,  aad  tho»c  of  the  Fathers.']  " 

***  In  regard  to  the  celestial  body,  sot  Roth,  in  the  Joei-sl  of  the  American  Oricw- 
tol  Society,  vol.  iii.,  p.  ; 

M 


306     FURTHER  QUOTATIONS  OS  THE  81TBJECT  OP  rAEADlSE. 


•.i.'r.c  ■ 


: 


ttfiina  |   "  Do  thou  conduct  us  to  heaven ;  let  us  bo  with  oar  wires'" 
and  children." 

ri.  120,  3  :  Yatra  luhdrdai  tukritv  madanti  tikilya  royaffi  tanpSl 
w&y&h  |  ailonHh  anyair  ahrutih  trarya  Intra  prntyma  ptlarau  tia 
H  |  "  In  heaven,  whore  oar  virtuous  friends  enjoy  bit— idflftK, 
having  left  behind  the  infirmities  of  their  bodio*,  fro*  from  lameness  or 
diatortioa  of  their  limbs,  may  wo  behold  oar  parents  and  our  children.'' 
(Compare  A.V.  iii.  28,  3  f.) 

is.  5,  27  :  Yd  ptinum  patim  titttu  athUnyam  vindale palim  ' 
audanam  cha  Utt  njaih  dadito  iw  ri  yoshatah  |  28.  Samtlnaioko 
pwiorb/iui-ti  'parah  patih  \  yo  'jam  panchaudanarh  dalth\najyc,tiik*i* 
daddti  |  "When  a  woman  has  had  one  husband  before,  and  gets 
another,  if  they  present  the  nja  parichaudana  offering,  they  shall  not 
bo  separated.  28.  A  second  husband  dwells  in  the  Mine  world  with 
his  re- wedded  wife,  if  he  offers  the  uja  panchaudano,  etc." 

xviii.  2,  23 :  Setln  gachhata  to  manah  adha  pitr'in  upa  drmva  |  '• 
thy  soul  (mana*)  go  to  its  own ;  and  hasten  to  the  fathers." 

The  onjoyment*  of  this  future  state  ar*  said,  in  R.V.  ix.  113,  7  jf., 
to  be  conferred  by  the  god  Soma,  and  arc  described  as  follows : 

7.  Yalta  Jyotir  ajatram  yatmin  lokt  tear  hitam  |  l.umiit  m<7m  dktli 
pavanulna  amrila  lake  ukthaye  Indraymd*  paritrara  |  8.  Yatra  rUja 
Faivaavato  yatrdrarodhanam  divah  |  yatr&mtr  yahratlr  6p*t  tatra  mum 
amritaih  kridhi  |  9.  Yatrtinukdmaih  charaaam  trindla  Iridite  diraA 
lokih  yatra  jyothhrnantat  tatra  mam  amrila*  krt'JXi  |  10. 
hlm\h  mk&mda  cha  yatra  bradhnatya  viohfapam  |  nadhd  cha  yatra 
pti»  cha  tatra  rndrn  amritafn  ftrtdhi  |  11.  Yatrdnandai  cha  moddi 
pramudah  iliate  |  kdmasya  yatriiph'ih  h&m&t  tatra  mam  amritaih  iridki\ 

7.  "I'luee  me,  o  purified  (Soma),  in  that  imperishable  and  un- 
changing world,  where  perpetual  light  and  glory  ore  found-  8.  Maku 
mo  immortal  (in  the  realm)  where  king  VuivasvaU  (Tama)  dwells, 
where  the  sanctuary  of  the  sky  exists,  and  those  groat  waters  (flow). 
9.  Make  me  immortal  in  the  third  heaven,  in  tho  third  Bky,  when 
action  is  un restrained, '"  and  the  regions  are  luminous.     10.  Hake  me 

**>  In  the  Liter  Indian  writings  tho  widow  who  bums  honolf  oa  ber  bnsbsBflTl 
fua«ral  pile  i>  MHHKUSi  to  rejoin  him  in  Svarga,    See  the  texts  cited  by  CoUlruvkf, 

E»«ji,i.  ner. 

u-  "In  baron  be  ocu  aocoroing  to  his  pleasure"  (kamatharo  *«y«i  ituryt  j**» 
JAoeotf).— Tuilt.  Br.  iii.  1'.',  2,  9. 


r«rtt«  | 


FURTIIER  QUOTATIONS  ON  TQE  SUBJECT  OP  PARADISE.  ETC.     307 


immortal  in  tho  world  where  thore  are  pleasure!  and  enjoy  men  t*, — in 
the  sphere  of  tho  sun, — where  ambrosia  und  sntiafaction  are  found.  11. 
Make  mo  immortal  in  tho  world  where  tburo  arc  joys,  and  delights, 
and  pleasures,  and  gratifications  ;  where  the  objects  of  desire  are 
attained." 

Tho  pleasures  hero  referred  to  arc  most  probably  to  be  understood  as 
of  a  sensual  kind."3  Such  at  least  is  the  prospect  held  out  in  the 
following  passage  of  the  Atbarva-veda,  iv.  34,  2  :*** 

A.V.  iv.  34,  2.  Antuthtth  pillah  pavanena  fuddhiih  fuehayah  iuthitt 
apt  yanti  Mara  |  naiahum  iifnam  pradahati  jitattdfth  svaryt  lokt  bahu 
itrainan  «$h&m  |  3.  Yiahf&rinam  odanaA  y$  paehanti  nainUn  aenrtih 
taekaU  kadachana  |  Otte  Yame  upa  ydti  deuhi  tarn  gandhartair  madaU 
tomt/ibhik  |  4.  YUhfdrinam  oditnam  yt  paehanti  naiwin  Yamah  pari 
m\uiw'iti  rttah  |  ratkl  ha  bhntvA  rathaydns  \yatt  paitht  ha  bhrttrd  'ti 
divah  tmmtti  |  "Boneless,**4  pure,  clcanBed  by  the  wind,  shining,  they 

**'  Roth  j»,  howeTor,  of  a  different  opinion,  lie  mji  (J  euro.  Aincr.  Orient.  8oc. 
.  :  "  Tbe  place  whuru  thesn  glorified  ones  are  to  lira  is  heaven.  In  order  to 
•how  tbat  not  merely  an  outer  court  of  the  divine  dwellings  ii  Ml  apart  for  them,  tho 
highest  heaven,  the  mtdat  or  iuncrraoit  put  of  heaven,  ii  expressly  spoken  of  at  ttarir 
seat.  Thi»  ia  their  plaoe  of  rest  i  and  it*  divine  eptendonr  Li  not  disfigured  by  any 
specification  of  pnrticolar  beautif*  or  enjnymsnu,  mich  m  those  with  which  other  re- 
ligions have  been  wont  to  adorn  tbe  luminous  of  the  bltet ....  There  they  arc 
kappr:  the  language  used  to  describe  their  condition  ii  the  name  with  which  a 
denoted  the  most  exalted  felicity."  Ho  then  i|uuUa  the  Tones  of  ii.  113.  7(1. 
already  adduced,  and  sddi:  "what ....  shall  oc  the  employment  of  the  bleat,  ia 
what  rphere  th«ir  activity  (hall  expend  itself;  to  this  question  ancient  Hindu  wiidom 
— oght  no  answer.  The  words  and  in  vcts*  II  of  hymn  ix.  113  to  drnoto  the  graft- 
Icetioos  of  paradise,  via :  anandZh,  mtdah,  pramndah,  are  t mplvycd  in  the  Teilftrlye 
Brakmaaa,  ii.  *,  ft,  6  {.,  to  signify  sexual  enjoyment  on  earth  (pr^apatih  sfriyoss 
wae'e  mtuAAttfor  ad*dk.it  mpam  |  txrmuy  Iriplim  ti  mm  Jam  t*tyiiam>  akajaytm*  ma  | 
■sceta*.  pramtodak  antutao  mtukkaynr  niMlaJf  *ipak  |  irilmi  kamuya  tripydm 
dailkiwimam  pralifr&k*). 

***  Coeaparo  Soup.  Br.  x.  4,  4,  4.  i'ti  u  ha  esi"  immi'I  Upa*  tapyott  S  miVl«. 
mat  Mrron  ha  att/a  tat  tvaryam  lokam  aihitamihawati  |  "When  a  man,  luiowinr 
this,  practises  austere  fervour,  he  retains  ia  heaven  all  hin  functions,  even  to  that  of 
sexual  intercourse." 

«*'  Though  tho  connection  is  merely  verbal.  I  quota  here  a  passage  from  the  Taitt. 
Saah.  vi.  p.  10,  of  India  Office  MS.,  No,  1702 1  BrahasaaoJimo  aaAtnti  kt.mil  tatyad 

atattittkma  prtjtih  prtwiyamt* '  nlAamntir  jnysntt  ili  |  y*J  Kiramyam  fkriti'midkSy* 

jukati  taemaaT amattMkm*  prajoA  pratiyamii  'Hkamrat'ir  jSyattta  |  "Those  versed  (a 
sacred  acfcaee  ask  oa  what  principle  it  ia  that  creature*  are  generated  by  a  boneless 
sabstanoe,  and  yet  are  horn  with  fames  ?  It  is  bscanse  th«  aacrirlccr  plaoea  geld  la 
the  ftre  when  ha  easts  into  it  bis  obUtion,  that  creatures  propagated  by  a  boneless 
substance  ore  born  with  bones."' 


308     FURTHER  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  PARADISE,  ETC. 


go  to  a  shining  region;  Agni*"  does  not  consume  their  generative 
organ ;  in  tho  eekatinl  sphere  they  havo  abundance  of  sexual  gratifi- 
cation."* 3.  Want  never  come*  upon  those  who  cook  the  ruh^irin 
oblation.  (Such  a  rnnn)  iihides  with  Yniuit,  gov*  to  the  god*,  and  lins 
in  blessedness  with  tho  Omiillmrvas,  tho  qunflV-rs  of  soma.  4.  Yams 
does  not  steal  away  the  generative  power  of  those  who  cook  the  wish' 
tarin  oblation.  (Such  a  man)  becomes  lord  of  a  chariot  on  which  he 
is  borne  along;  becoming  winged,  he  soars  beyond  the  aky."  1 
region  the  hm.lil'ul  are  also  promihod  ponds  lllled  with  clarified  hotter, 
bony,  wine,  milk,  aud  curds  (verse  6).*" 

It  ib  clear,  in  fact,  that  in  tho  Vcdic  ago  the  goda  themselves  were 
not  regarded  as  possessing  a  purely  spiritual  nature,  but  a*  subject  to 
tho  influence  of  various  sensual  appetites.    Wo  havo  formerly  seen 
constantly  they  are  represented  as  delighting  in  the  soma-juico,  and 
tin    i  xhilaration  which  it  produced.     Yaran  is  described  as  carotuiag 
with  the  gods  (K.V.  x.  135,  1),  the  Adityns  as  eating  honey  (A.Y. 

4/'*  Thi*.  no  doubt,  alludes  to  the  lit.  '.i  th«  Antral  pile. 

"*  Compiuo  Jliihibbirsta.  xii.  3657 :  Var~ipnrah-nk*ari*.i  imrmm  M; 
kilam  |  learamana  '»AiiM.ini»ri  "  SMBM  bharta  ikaral"  Hi  |  "  Tbciusaada  of 
some  Apurues  run  up  in  \\at-U:  to  the  hero  who  has  b«cn  slain  in  Untie  (eulsinunaj) 
v  husband.'  "  Aud  agnin,  r.  3007:  Abkirawim  imt  hkah  Mntsaaro  Aaawa 
paiyata  j  purn-ilf  j/a»dki>rraktiAy.~i>>fiih  taraakjina-tlukn  'kihafa)  |  "  Behold,  thai 
shininjf  world*  baling  to  tl»'  lisrlass,  tilled  with  nini-lin*  of  the  Gsndbarvai,  *ad 
yielding  all  kind*  of  enjoyment*."    In  like  mi  Kutua  Upaaistiad 

-o  the  Anwrutn :  Yt  yt  kiimHk  rlarlahh<~\h  marttta-Jokf  tartan  kSmSmi 
chhondafiih  prCirtntiyittva  |  inuih  rilaaty  am<Aa|  ».i/i>ryiA  na  M  idruir.lf  Immtiatl- 
yuA  autNMiAyiiA  |  &Ma>  mnt-prxiliibhik  paritharayami  |  "Ask  at  thy  will.  «»yi 
Toms  to  Nachikotaa,  all  those  ploaiuiea  wi  irieult  to  be  bad  hi  the  world  of 

mortal*,  tboao  fuir  one*  with  their  cars  and  initrumcnU  of  marie,-  for  web  at  th»y 
ore  not  to  be  obtained  by  ns&|  noailt  then  from  me,  and  allow  thyself  to  fas) 
wuiud  on  by  thcao."  (Tho  belt  f  gem  of  this  fine  Upanishsd.  I  nay  reaaark,— 
though  the  fact  hml  ban  bcl'oro  noUd  by  Professor  Weber, — u  to  be  found  in  th* 
Taut.  Br.  iii.  II.  8,  l-o).  Sor  also  the  Kaushitakl  Upanithad,  as  translated  by 
Wabar,  Ind.  Stud.  i.  308,  and  Cowell,  Bibliottiiea  lnd.  p.  117. 

*"  8e*  the  8aUp.  Br.  xiv.  7,  l.  :ti  if.  t,  -  B|fh.  \r»t.v.  Up  pp.  817  ff.),  where  i 
Clid  that  the  enjoyments  of  the  Fathers  are  a  hundred  times  greater  than 
man  who  live*  in  perfect  prosperity,  is  thr  lord  of  others,  and  enjoys  all  h 
pleasures  (sayo  mamukuannim  radJKah  —mfiiUko  ikarati  anyesham  adktpmtik  mr. 
\m\r  mamutkyakaxlf  kamaih  icmfUmKottmak  tn  mtamiukynniim  peramak  os»»sh|  | 
Ui.  At  ha  yt  islam  matuuliyiinam  aaaWoA  m  pttrlnam  tkak  anxiuUA).  In  tb( 
same  way.  tha  oajoymsnts  of  the  Esrmsdesas,  those  beings  who  bate  attain**!  lbs 
sank  of  gods  by  their  merits,  are  a  hundred  time*  greater  than  those  of  the  Fslbcrt, 
aid  again  the  esjoymcnU  of  the  god*  by  nature  (ijV>>raaVr5A)  an  a  hundred 
greater  than  those  of  the  Karrnadcvas.  etc. 


how 

i* 

u-_irg 

r  (A.Y. 

iHssat 

of  hand- 


no  ra  ta* 
adatad  by 

'here  it  ■ 
tbsarafa 

>ll  humra 

SBSSWfsfm     aaaa. 


FURTHER  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  PARADISE.  ETC.     309 


zriii.  4,  3),  and  the  Fathers  as  indulging  in  festivity  or  revelry 
(ladkamGdam  madanti)  with  Yaina  (It.Y.  i.  14,  10 :  compare  A.V. 
xviii.  4,  10).  India  is  aaid  in  R.Y.  iii.  63,  G  (see  above,  p.  81  f.)  to 
have  a  handsome  wife,  and  pleasure,  in  his  home.  In  two  verses  of 
the  A.Y.  xiv.  2,  31  f,  the  young  bride  ie  encouraged  to  ascend  the 
nuptial  couch,  and  become  the  mother  of  children,  by  the  consider- 
ation that  tbo  gods  had  been  the  first  to  enter  into  the  married 
state  and  indulge  in  carnal  intercourse  with  their  spouses  (d  roha 
taip*m  $UHuina*yaia/i»ii  iha  praji'iia  janaya  patyt  amci  \  32.  Dvtdh 
ayr»  anmapadyanla  patnlh  tanuupj-iianla  tanvtu  tanHbhtK).  In  A.Y.  iT. 
37,  1 1  f.,  the  Gandharvos,  a  class  of  goda,  who  are  described  as  hairy, 
like  dogs  and  monkeys,  but  as  assuming  u  handsome  appearance  to 
•educe  the  affections  of  earthly  females,  are  called  upon  to  desist  from 
this  unbecoming  practice,  and  not  to  interfere  with  mortals,  aa  they 
hod  wives  of  their  own,  the  Apsarascs  (priyo  dp'ie  it  a  bkitvil  yandhar- 
vah  whale  etriyant  |  lam  ilo  n&iay&tiuui  brahmana  tiryuvaiC  |  12. 
Jtiytih  \d  co  apsaratah  yandharvuh  patayo  y&yam  |  apa  dhiltata  amcr- 
tyah  morlyan  r/iu  tachadhvam).  Compare  verses  2—1  and  7  of  the  same 
hymn  and  A.Y.  xiv.  2,  8ft).  11°  even  the  gods  were  imagined  by  the 
authors  of  thc?«  hymns  to  havo  such  a  decided  element  of  carnality  in 
their  nature,  it  is  scarcely  to  be  supposed  that  these  same  poet*,  or 
their  contemporaries,  or  immediate  predecessors,  should  hove  risen  to 
the  conception  of  a  purely  spiritual  heaven  as  the  reward  of  a  virtuous 
life  upon  earth."* 

In  one  passage  of  the  A.  V.  iii.  29, 3,  immunity  from  taxation  seems  to 

*»  It  may  be  objected  that  the  texts  which  I  hare  cited  from  the  A.V.  furnish  no 
proof  of  the  meaning  of  those  in  the  Rig-eeck,  as  the  former  collection  ie  of  later 
data  than  the  latter.  Rat  (I)  the  hymns  of  the  A.Y.  are  probably  not  much  posterior 
to  those  of  the  ninth  and  tenth  luniks  of  the  R.V.,  with  which  I  hare  been  deeding ; 
and  (2)  die  state  of  opinion  relucted  in  the  texts  of  tho  A.V.  need  aot  be  supposed 
la  kavo  originated  coiitemporaneowly  with  ita  expreanoc  in  thaw  particular  brans, 
bat  was  probably  luuidod  down  from  s  previous  period.  We  ought  not  to  be  too 
incmduL.iM  aa  to  the  early  existence,  in  an  elementary  form,  of  ideas  which  appear  at 
Ant  light  to  bear  the  character  of  a  later  age.  That  wo  find  in  the  A.Y.  x.  6,  43,  a 
reference  to  three  qualities  ($»<yt)  as  enveloping  the  lulus  with  nine  gates  (fund*, 
riimm  •uiraiiiafam  tribhir  gtnubliir  atrilam),  and  there  u  pcrtupe  no  reason  to 
doubt  that  here  tho  three  funa*.  so  well  known  in  later  cewnogoaiea,  are  referred  to. 
Mtjtt  and  umi.  two  of  these  qualities,  are  mentioned  together,  A.V.  riii.  5,  1  (n*>ee 
(sms  m  »)»$**).  The  "aamo"  and  ••form"  (■io-.o  and  ripm)  celebrated  by  th" 
VsltWshtS,  are  also  allttdcd  to  in  A.V.  x.  2,  13,  aud  xi.  7.  1  (wAlesAf*  wms 


310     FURTHER  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  PARADISE,  ETC. 


be  held  out  as  a  boon  to  be  anticipated  in  tbc  noxt  world.  It  is  there 
said  that  tbo  offeror  of  a  black-footed  sheep  "  ascends  to  the  sky  when 
no  tribute  is  paid  by  the-  weak  to  tbo  stronger  "  (yo  dadatt  Mip&imm 
acim  lekena  tammitam  |  »a  ntikam  ahhyurohati  yalra  hikla  [hrtlnh .']  sm 
kriyalt  abdUna  lallyate),  and  in  verse  A  it  is  promised  that  a  person 
of  the  same  description  shall  "  live  for  ever  in  the  sun  and  moan  " 
(pradoCa  upa  jwati  rtirya-mflsayor  akthilam). 
The  virtues  for  which  men  are  admitted  to  the  realms  of  the  bleasfd 

rta  Bnu  ^fri^HE  b  bgna  144  of  the  tntt  boot  oftb  B  V,  l  .s.«w* 

ekdhyah  pavaU  ghj-itam  eke  uputate  |  ytbhyo  uutdhu  pradhdrtli  tuihi 
chid  nipt  gachhatat  j  2.  Taptwl  y$  ahidhrithy&t  tapatd  y*  txar  yayuk  | 
Upo  ye  chnkrire  maho*  UitM  chid — |  3.  Ye  yudhyanU  pradhanttku  Hr&M 
y$  ianutyajah  !  ye  ta  tahatradakthin&t  tan — |  4.  Yt  ehit  part*  ritatSpaA 
riU'muiMh  rttilvridhtth  \  pitfln  tapawato  Yama  tan — |  5.  Sthatranithnk 
karayo  yt  gopfiyanti  tilryam  |  rithln  Utpanato  Yama  tapojfm  apt  yaehh- 
atiH  |  "Soma  is  purified  for  some ;  others  geek  after  clarified  butter. 
Let  him  (the  deceased)  depart  to  those  for  whom  the  honied  beverage 
flows.  2.  Let  him  depart  to  those  who,  through  rigorous  abstraction 
\tapai),  are  invincible,  who,  through  tepat,  have  gone  to  heaven;  to 
those  who  hnvu  performed  great  tapat.  3.  Let  him  depart  to  the 
combatants  in  battles,  to  the  heroes  who  hovo  there  sacrificed  their 
lives,  or  to  thoso  who  have  bestowed  thousands  of  largesses.  4.  Let 
him  depart,  Yama,  to  those  austere  ancient  Fathers  who  have  practised 
and  promoted  sacred  rites.  5.  Let  him  depart,  Yama,  to  those  austere 
nobis,  born  of  rigorous  abstraction,  to  those  sages,  skilled  in  a  thousand 
■ojeaxea,  who  guard  tho  sun.''  •""     (Compare  A..V.  six.  43,  1  ff.) 

R..V.  i.  125,  5,  and  x.   107,  2,  which  have  been  already  quoted 
above,  p.  285,  also  proclaim  the  rewards  of  liberality,  a  virtue  » 
Bn  I'-i-ihrnona,  who  are  its  object,  have  alwuys  been  forward  to  extoL 
(Compare  alao  verso  8  of  the  hymn  last  referred  to.) 

Tho  Fathers  who  have  attained  to  the  heavenly  state  are  described 
as  being  objects  of  udorutiou  to  their  descendants.     They  are  said  to  be 
of  different  classes,  upper,  intermediate,  and  lower,  or  those  who  inhabit 
the  heaven  (or  sky),  tho  air,  and  the  earth  (1LY.  x.  15,  1 ;  .'• 
2,  49),  while  in  the  verse  preceding  the  one  last  quoted  (A.  V.  xviii.  2, 


"•  Th*«e  veram  form  pnrt  of  the  funeral  liturjfj  of  th«  ] 
the  fuiicml  rite*  of  the  Uruomans,  p.  xi. 


SoiMulbr.ea 


FU11THEB  QUOTATION'S  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  r.\TUMSE,  ETC.     31 1 


48),  we  arc  told  that  there  are  three  heavens,  of  which  the  Fathers 
occupy  the  third  or  highest.  Their  different  races  are  mentioned  by 
name,  viz.,  Angirascs,  Yairupas,  Navagvna,  Atharvans,  Bhrigus,  Yaa- 
ishthaa,  etc  (R.V.  x.  14,  4-fi ;  x.  15,  8).  SDuntf  not  all  known  to 
their  worshippers,  they  are  known  to  Agni  (z.  15,  13).  Their  de- 
scendants offer  them  worship  and  oblations  (x.  15,  2,  9),  supplicate 
their  good  will  (x.  14,  6),  deprecate  their  wrath  on  account  of  any 
offences  which  may  have  been  committed  against  them  (x.  15,  6), 
cetroat  them  to  hear,  intercede  for,  and  protect  their  votarif*  (x.  15, 5), 
and  to  bestow  upon   them   opulence,    long  life,   un<>  -,    (x. 

15,  7,  11 ;  A.V.  xviii.  3,  14 :  Paruyata  pitarah  a  cha  yGta  ayara  re 
yajno  madkund  satnaltah  \  datto  rumulityafii  draiincha  bhadram  rayith 
tha  nah  tarratlram  dadhiitn  ;  xviii.  4,  62  :  Ayar  atmabhyafu  dad.'iatah 
frtjOik  cha  rOyai  cha  pothair  abhi  nah  utchadhvam).  They  are  re- 
presented as  thirsting  for  the  libations  prepared  for  them  on  eurth 
(x.  15,  9)  ;  and  they  are  invited  to  come  with  Tama,  his  father 
Vivasrst,  and  Agni,  and  feast  with  avidity,  and  to  their  hearts' 
content,  ou  the  sacrificial  food  (x.  14,  4,  5  ;  x.  15,  9).  They  ac- 
cordingly arrive  in  thousands,  borne  on  the  same  car  with  ludra 
and  the  other  gods,  and  range  themselves  in  order  on  the  saorifieisl 
ground  (x.  15,  10,  11).,:"  Wonderful  powers  are  ascribed  to  thvtn, 
as  in  Agni  is  prayed  (A.V.  xviii.  'J,  38),  to  Wow  sway  the  <vil 
who  intrude  into  their  hollowed  society  in  tho  guise  of  friends.  In 
K.V.  x.  68,  II,  it  is  said  that  "tho  Fathers  have  adorned  the  sky 
with  stars,  as  a  dark  horse  with  golden  ornaments,  and  have  placed 
darkness  in  tho  night,  and  light  in  the  day"  (abhi  iydvaih  na  kriiant- 
bhir  aham  nakihairebhih  pitaro  dyiim  apimian). 

With  these  ideas  compare  those  entertained  by  tho  Romans  about 
the  Manes  (see  Smith's  Dictionary  of  Greek  and  Roman  Biography 
and  Mythology,  $.v .),  and  the  opinions  of  tho  unreformed  Christian 
Churches  about  the  powers  and  prerogatives  of  tho  saints. 

The  following  texts  refer  indistinctly  to  some  punishment  (whether 
annihilation  or  some  penal  infliction)  of  the  wicked  : 

R.V.  iv.  5,  5 :  Abhrataro  na  yothano  eyautak  petliripo  na  janayt 
dureii'iA  \  ptipumh  unto  sup'toA  amtytih  idam  padata  njanata  gabhlram  \ 

*"  Compare,  on  the  pfftrings  to  the  Pitrw,  Colcbiuulw'a  Emit  on  lbs  Bsligkna 
Coromtwiis  vf  the  Hunk*.    Mi*.  EsMrt,  i.  180  B". 


312     FUKTHER  QUOTATION'S  OK  THE  8TOTFXT  OF  PAJUDISE. 


"  This  deep  slyse  hoa  been  produced  (for  tboM  who),  being  sinners, 
false,  untrue,  go  about  like  women  without  brother*,  like  wicked 
females  hostilo  to  their  hujboi 

11. V.  vii.  101,  3  :  Jndratcmu  duthkrilo  earre  antar  anarambht^t 
Umasi  praridhyalam  \  yafful  ur'it.ih  jiunar  ikaiektmodayad  ityfidi  |  1 7. 
I'rti  yd  jigali  khargaleva  naktam  upa  Jrufttl  faneeft  f4hgm4n&  rami™ 
anantitn  or.t  id  padlthfa  ityudi  |  "  indra  and  Soma,  dash  those  mali- 
cious (llakshases)  into  the  abyss,  into  bottomless  darkness,  so  that  act 
cren  one  of  them  may  get  out,"  etc.  17.  "May  that  injurious  lUk- 
ahasT,  who  goes  about  at  night  like  an  ov..,  concealing  herself,  fall 
into  the  bottomless  abysses." 

Hut  these  last  texts  form  part  of  a  hymn  which  refers  to  evil  spirits. 

Ii.V.  is.  73,  8 :  Fidv&n  *a  viieU  bivrani  'Mi'  paiyati  avajtukfa* 
vidhyati  karte  avratun  |  "  Knowing,  ho  (Soma)  beholds  all  worlds ; 
he  hurls  the  hated  and  irreligious  into  the  abyss  "  (tart*). 

Iu  x.  152,  4,  Indra  is  prayed  to  consign  to  the  lower  darkness  the 
man  who  injures  his  worshipper  (yo  amum  «ihi  d&sati  adkartm 
gamaya  lamah  :  compare  A.V.  i.  21,  2) ;  and  in  A.V.  riii.  2,  24,  the 
nethermost  darkness  is  mentioned  (no  rai  tatrs  mriyjnU  no  yanti 
luihiimum  lamah),  "  They  do  not  die  there,  nor  go  to  the  nethermost 
dark  lies*."  See  idao  A.  v.  ix.  2,  4,  9,  10,  and  17;  x.  3,  9  ;  xii.  3,  49; 
xiii.  1.  32,  where  similar  phrase*  occur  (associated  in  one  place,  x.  3,  9, 
with  atttrttam  rajas,  the  distant  (f)  atmosphere);  and  It. V.  x.  103,  12, 
ami  A.V.  xviii.  3,  3,  where  the  expression  andham  tamos,  "blind  dark* 
ncse»"  h  band.*1  Hut  it  is  not  clear  that  in  these  passages  the  words 
denote  a  place  of  punishment.  la  A.V.  v.  30,  11,  it  is  said  to  a  sick 
man:  udthi  mrityor  gtimbhirat  krithmieh  eKit  tamatas  pari  |  "Rise  up 
from  deep  death,  even  from  the  black  darkness."  In  A.V.  riii.  1,  10, 
tamat  is  uted  by  itself,  apparently  for  the  state  of  the  dead ;  and  in 
A.V.  viii.  2,  2,  "the  light  of  the  living"  (jlcoldmjyolih)  is  mentioned. 
In  the  preceding  verse,  1,  rajas  and  lamas  ore  joined :  "  do  not  depart 
to  the-  atmosphere  and  darkness  "  (rajas  tamo  mopaguA  md  pra  mtsk- 
thah).  In  A.V,  xii.  4,  36,  however,  the  adjective  form  of  the  ordinary 
word  for  hell  {uurala  Ma)  occurs;  and  that  region  is  threatened  as 
the  future  nbodc  of  the  man  whose  offence  is  there  specified  (athdhw 
ndrakam  lokam  nirundfu'masyu  ydeJiilam). 

«">   Mann,  viii.  {I  t.  ennnnrta  muUutm  (Mum  vith  bell,  laying  that  s  lying 
goes  b>  bell  iu  "  bliud  dailntsi.'* 


FURTHEB  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OP  PARADISE,  ETC.     313 

In  the  following  passages  of  the  Mahftbliiirata  (xii.  6969  f.)  bell  and 
dorkncs-s  ((anuu)  arc  identified :  AnfifaUt  lamaso  rtiparh  tumata  nlyatt 
htf  adhah  |  tanvo-grtutuh  ««  paiyanti  prakuiam  ionium  trittih  |  0970. 
ikargab prak&iah  Uy  ikur  narahtm  (amah  era  cha  |  "Falsehood  is  the 
embodiment  of  darkness  (lamai) :  by  darkucss  a  mun  is  carried  down- 
wards. Those  who  arc  seized  by  darkness,  being  enveloped  in  dark- 
new,  do  not  see  tbo  light.  Heaven  they  euy  is  light  (praitfUa),  and 
hell  is  darkness  (tamat)."m 

In  ono  of  tho  passages  which  hare  boon  quoted  aboro  (z.  1G,  4)  the 
"  anbom  part"  of  man  is  spoken  of  as  being  conveyed  by  Agni  to 
"  the  world  of  the  righteous."  It  will  be  observed  that  the  word  hero 
employed  is  different  from  utntan,  the  term  which  at  a  lat*r  period  was 
inrarinbly  used  to  denote  the  immaterial  soul ;  mid  that  this  same 
word  atmait  occurs  in  the  preceding  verse  in  the  sense  of  breath,  as  we 
must  infer  from  the  fact  of  its  being  bidden  to  mingle  with  the  wind, 
the  element  to  which  it  is  akin.  In  some  other  passages  of  the  Kig« 
veda  wu  find  the  word  mana*  employed  for  the  soul,  or  tho  living 
principle  which  exists  after  death.  Thus  in  x.  58,  I,  it  is  said :  Yat 
U  Yamam  VaitatraUtm  mono  jdgAma  d&rakam  |  tat  U  Srarttayunari 
ifia  itftaydyajlrtuc  |  "Thy  soul,  which  has  gODo  afar  to  Yamo  Vuiv-as- 
vata,  wo  bring  back  hither  to  dwell  and  to  lite."  In  tho  rersee  . 
follow,  the  soul  is  said  to  be  brought  back  from  a  great  many  other 
places,  the  heaven,  the  earth,  the  four  quarters  of  tho  sky,  the  ocean, 
the  wuters,  the  planets,  tho  sun,  the  dawn,  the  post,  the  future,  eto. 
And  again  in  x.  60,  10,  we  find  the  same  word  employed:  Yamad 
aham  Vairturat&l  Subandhor  manoh  iibharam  \  /itutare  nit  mptyate  atho 
(trithfatAtay*  |  "  I  havo  brought  the  soul  of  Subandhu  that  it  may  lire 
and  not  die,  but  be  secure."  Compare  A.V.  v.  3,  6,  13 ;  vi.  53,  2 ; 
viii.  1,  8;  viii.  2.  3;  and  Vdj.  Sanh.  iii.  53-50.  Atman  is,  however, 
used  in  some  parts  of  the  Hig-veda  for  the  animating  principle,  as 
where  tho  sun  is  called  tho  soul  of  all  things  moving  and  stationary 
(i.  115,  1),  or  where  Soma  is  colled  tho  soul  of  sacrifice  (ix.  2,  10; 
ix.  6,  8),  and  of  Indra  (ix.  85,  3). 


«*  Compare  Vi.hnu  Pnrini,  ii.  6.  40 :  -  Jlttfm  k  that  wniefc  delights  lb*  mii»d  | 
bril  is  Uuii  uliirh  giv«  it  pun  j  hi.-,  » i.o  in  tilled  h«II ;  virtu*  i»  called  h#«T*n  " 


314 


QUOTATION'S  FROM  LATER  WORKS 


(6)  Quotations  from  later  tcoris  regarding  a  future  frUlemo*. 

I  shall  now  adduce  somo  passage*  from  other  Indian  work*  of  a 
later  date,  such  as  the  Satapstha  Brahmnno,  the  epic  poems,  and  th* 
Parana*,  to  show  how  for  the  opinions  which  their  authors  cntartaiasd 
coincide  with  those  representations  of  a  future  life  which  I  hare  ex- 
tracted from  the  Rig-,  Yajur-,  and  Athnrva-vedaB. 

In  tlio  9th  vol.  of  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society 
(pp.  237  ff.)  Professor  'Weber  has  communicated  a  legend  from  ihe 
Satnpntha  Brahmann,  on  penal  retribntion  after  death,  to  which  be  has 
prefixed  some  interesting  remarks  on  the  history  of  Indian  opinion 
regarding  tho  vanity  of  personal  existence,  and  the  dcuro  to  escape 
from  the  perpetual  cycle  of  births  to  which  that  opinion  conducts. 
He  remarks  that,  owing  to  tho  fragmentary  nature  of  the  surviving 
documents  of  Indian  literature,  we  are  not  yet  in  a  position  to  trace 
with  nny  distinctness  tho  rise  and  growth  of  tho  doctrine  of  transmi- 
gration; though  ho  considers  it  to  admit  of  no  doubt  that  the  tenet  in 
question  was  gradually  developed  in  India  itself,  and  not  introduced  from 
any  foreign  country.  (See  Professor  Denfey's  remarks  on  this  subject 
in  his  Orient  und  Occident,  vol.  iii.  pp.  169  f.)  In  the  hymna  of  the 
Rig-vcda,  Prof.  Weber  goes  on  to  observe,  there  is  no  trace  discoverable 
of  the  metempsychosis,  or  of  any  disgust  with  personal  existence.  On 
the  contrary,  they  mauifost  a  cheerful  enjoyment  of  life,  and  the  most 
earnest  desire  for  ita  prolongation  in  thin  world,  as  well  u  its  con- 
tinuation in  the  next.  "  So  too,"  Professor  Weber  proceeds,  "  in  the 
Brahmauas,  immortality,  or  at  least  longevity,  is  promised  to  those 
who  rightly  understand  and  practise  tho  rites  of  sacrifice,  while  those 
who  ore  deficient  in  this  respect  depart  before  their  natural  term  of 
life  (purti  ha  Aytuhah)  *'•*  to  tho  next  world,  where  they  ore  weighed 
in  a  balance  (xi.  2,  7,  33) m  and  receive  good  or  evil  according  to 

•*  Compare  R.V.  s.  37,  3:  bkadruSi  fivanto  jamnam  airmahi;  S'atnp.  B:_ 
3,  0 :  laniam  ayur  tti  a  An  tva  jarayai  jirati ;  S'nUp.  Br.  x.  4,  9,  I,  where  Ihe  ex- 
piration pura  jartuak  u  round ;  a*  it  is  alio  in  1:  I,  20,  und  A.V.  v.  30, 17 ; 
X.  2,  30;  xi.  3,  68.  Pura  ha  ayiuho  mriyalt  oetura  in  8'atap.  V.r.  ii.  1,  4,  9:  *• 
pura  aymhch  ivakami  preybt  in  x.  2,  6,  7 ".  and  terrain  ayytr  #f i  in  X.  2,  8, 19.  8*S 
also  Tsitt.  Sanh.  iii.  2.  1.  3.  Compare  lWra  I  v.  2« :  "  Bloody  and  dtosUM  Oca 
(.hall  not  tiro  out  half  their  daya ;  "  Poalm  cii.  25,  und  Jurcnuah  xrii.  II. 

M  Tho  pottage  (ii.  2,  7,  33)  to  which  Weber  ha*  referral  rum  at  follow* :  jttim 
ha  aha  na  tuia  yd  rfofaaipe  rtdyantth  \  $a  yet  to  Jin  tarvti  tad  anUrwrdi  at  A* 


REGARDING  A  »UTTTB£  EXISTENCE. 


315 


their  deeds.  The  mora  sacrifices  any  one  has  offered,  the  more  ethereal 
is  the  body  ho  obtains,  or,  as  the  Brahman*  expresses  it  (x.  1,  5,  4),,r> 
the  more  rarely  does  he  need  to  eat.  In  other  passages,  again  (ir. 
6,  1,  1  :  xi.  1,  8,  6;  xii.  8,  3,  31),'"  it  is  promised  as  the  higfaost 
reward,  that  the  pious  nan  shall  ho  born  in  tho  next  world  with  his 
entire  body  (larcalanUr  eta  t&ngah).     Here  the  high  estimation    of 


yaJ  t&lhv  lad  lakirtrdi  tormSd  dakthinam  tadyantam  adhirpna'ya  iia  oa'la  |  f*C 
fim  ha  rai  amiuJimm  hh*  aaadhali  |  yatarod  yairuyati  lad  aitvukyati  yadi  surf •«  «<S 
asu.SAu  in  ifi  |  atha  yahtram  veda  tumin  As  rva  lokt  fu/nm  aVuAufi  |  a!i  amuihnin  Ink* 
tuladhmam  muchyatt  Madhakrilya  ha  rva  an/a  yackhati  aa  papakritya  |  '•  For  in 
the  sest  world  they  place  (his  good  and  ml  dead*)  in  a  balance.  Whichever  of 
the  two  fthail  outweigh  (tho  other),  tint  he  ihall  follow,  whether  it  bo  good  - 
Now,  whosoever  knows  this  places  himself  in  tho  balance  in  this  world,  and  u  freed 
fron  being  weighed  in  the  next  world ;  it  i*  by  good  deed*  and  not  by  bud  tint  (bis 
saale)  outweighs." 

•'»  X.  1,  6,  4  :  Atha  <Uo  yoJHaxtryunam  era  |  mt/itm  prxittr  Aa  toi  ammkmim  Idm 
aontketra-kud  ainoti  tar  at  t  ha  latmin  yajm  iirg  atdhaman  ardhamau  tUi*p»f*a- 
maia-yiji  that  unhid  thaturthu  ■iMVftSJ  tl  -liijl  thaliu  thotm  pofulandha- 

yifi  atmcattmrt  *amval*art  semayS/i  t'att  iatr  taiitraltartthu  a-jmckit  kamam  timSli 
kamam  ma  |  tad  ha  atad  yaiaC  t'atam  vtmtatuirat  lat-ad  amritam  aoamtmm  aparyat*- 
lam  |  «•  yo  ha  itaU  tvatn  rtda  team  ha  tva  atya  Had  amritam  aminfam  itparyamtam 
khorati  |  (an/a  yad  api  Lhtkatja  irw  upahanyal  tad  ma  atya  amritam  a*anl  mm 
aparyamtam  bkarati  |  ■  Then  ss  rogards  the  powers  of  the  sacrifices.  Jn  tho  next 
world  the  offerer  of  an  Agnitiotra  eaU  morning  and  evening.  So  much  nourishment 
resides  in  that  sacrifice.  The  performer  of  the  DaraopO:  t>amuM  sacrifice  cat*  every 
fortnight,  the  performer  of  the  Chuturrniigya  every  four  mouths.  Um  p  rlbtmi  1 1 1  tin: 
Patubsadba  every  aix  months,  the  offerer  of  the  Soma  every  year,  whilst  the  Vindlir 
of  firs  aat*  every  hundred  years,  or  abstains  at  hia  pleasure.  This  means,  that  during 
tlu*  period  of  a  hundred  years  fas  enjoys  an  immortal,  unending,  and  unliouul  Ufa, 
He  who  m  knows  this  enjoys  in  the  tunc  way  this  immortal,  unending,  and  un- 
Ibsitsd  cxislroco.  Whatever  purt  of  liim  is  separated,  even  aa  if  by  a  straw,  be* 
coomb  immortal,  uninding.  and  unlimiud." 

«•  iv.  i.  1,1:  Sa  ha  jarra/amur  raw  yajamana  'mutkmim  hkt  tmmhkatati  |  "  This 
sssrifesr  ii  born  with  hit  wholo  body  (ssntsWMwA)  in  the  next  world."  xi.  I,  B,  «s 
E'ka  ka  vat  yajomartarya  amnthmtn  lak*  alma  hkarati  yed  yajnah  \  —  ha  tarratanur 
arm  ya/aman*  aimuhnin  lokt  tamhharati  yah  mm  tidrSm  mukrTtya  yajala  |  •"This 
sssTrlflrs  bseotnea  in  the  next  world  the  soul  of  the  sacriacer.  The  sacrifice!  who,  know 
ing  this,  sserinces  with  sn  txpiatiou,  i«  born  with  his  wholn  body  in  the  next  world." 
xii.  S,  J,  31  :  Pra  ira  rai  taka  telnnu  tka  dmmlod  eh*  viiati  yak  ututramrnfa  'Mi* 
ihiihywtt  |  t««*  rtad  atiitariM  atminam.  upakrayatt  lathi  kptamah  <*#>  aanatanuk 
aaayak  tamikatati  \  ■  He  who  i*  consecrated  by  the  SsotrHmanf  entcn  the  world*, 
and  among  the  puis.  He  then  ....  sad  is  born  entire,  with  his  whole  hsdy  and 
limbs."  la  the  A.V.  xi.  3.  32.  and  49.  it  is  said  :  taka  rai  oianah  mrrSmaah  ssrsw 
fanh  aaresfavsuA  |  tarvamfth  era  tarvopttnJf  larralrmik  umbkaaati  yak  from  rrta  | 
«  This  nisMo  (boiled  nee)  if  complete  in  its  limbs,  joints,  and  body.  He  who  knows 
(his  is  born  complete  in  limbs,  joints,  and  body." 


31fl 


QUOTATIONS  PKOM  LATER  WORKS 


individual  existence  culminates,  nod  a  purely  personal  immortality  is 
involved.  It  ia  evidently  in  connection  with  this  that  the  loss  of  a 
dead  man's  bones  is  regarded  by  bis  friends  as  disgraceful,  as  the 
severest  punishment  of  arrogjinco  (xi.  S,  :t,  1 1 ;  xir.  6,  9,  28) ; " m 
since,  according  to  the  custom  prescribed  by  the  Sutras,  the  bones 
Rhould  be  collected  after  cremation. 

[Tim  following  passage  from  the  same  work  (x.  4,  3,  9,)  is  not  incon- 
sistent  with  the  aboTo  riew.  According  to  the  story,  the  gods  become 
immortal  without  parting  with  their  bodies;  and  although  men  Ma 
not  to  enjoy  immortality  without  "  shuffling  off  their  mortal  coiL"  a 
subsequent  resumption  of  their  bodies  in  a  glorified  state  is  not  thereby 
excluded  :  9.  Ha  mntyttr  devun  abravid  "  Atha  eva  iwrtt  manvtAylk 
amrittth  bhaiithyanti  atha  ko  mahyarn  Ih&go  bhavUhyatt "  iti  \  U  ha 
ichur  "  na  aloh  'parah  kakhana  taha  MVfrVfi  amrito  'tad  yadA  era 
team  etam  bhUgam  hordsai  \  atha  rydrritya  larirena  ttmrito  'tad  eidyayd 
td  karmaaa  ea"  iti  |  yad  mi  tad  abruean  "vidyaya  eu  karman/i  rd  " 
iti  |  **ha  ha  eva  »a  vidya  yad  Aynir  el  ad  u  ha  eva  tat  karma  yad  Ayaih  | 
10.  T'1  yi  tvafh  etad  vidur  ye  ttl  eiat  karma  kurxatt  mritcu  pun  ah  mm- 
lliavanti  \  te  tambhavanlah  eva  awrttatvam  abhitambhmanti  |  atha  y 
team  na  vidur  ye  vd  etat  karma  na  tun-ate  mritta  punah  tambhrnraati  U 
itaiya  eva  annum  punah  punar  bhaxanti  | 

"  Death  said  to  the  Rods  (who  had  become  immortal  by  performing 
certain  rites),  'in  the  very  same  way  all  men  (also)  (hall  become 
immortal ;  then  what  portion  will  remain  for  mc? '     Tho  gods  replied, 


*"  xi.  <3,  3,  11 :  Ha  ha  tivucha  "(iriaiiprainyam  mi  dtralam  atymprahhTk 
ililhi/ai  nmrithyuri  na  14  atlhmi  thana  grihan  pruptyinti"  iti  j  M  A*  latitat** 
namara  |  taiya  ha  apy  aryad  manyamanah  parimothiifo  tulh'my  ap*j*kntl>  |  I  limit 
na  uparaiti  jyuf  |  ■  Do  not  serotiniic  too  far  the  drity  which  ought  not  to  be  toe  tax 
■■■■iini.«ii     xhiin  <hult  die  More  rack  :>  i  run  thy  boaea  thall  reach  my 

horn*.  .  and  robber*  carried  off  hU  bono*,  talcing  thorn  Tar  Mawting 

«Uc    'Where fore  kt  no  man  bo  contentfcw."    xiv.  fl,  0,  28  (=Brih*d  Aranjmka 
r/pasUmd,  iii.  D,  M ;  p.  210  f.  of  Boex'«  English  Uanalation) :  Tarn  re*  *mpmn*tJm 
dam  purutMim  pfichhiimi  lam  (htd  mt  na  ticaitkytui  mfinttd  te  tipaliihysli  "  ifi  | 
tarn  ha  Sokalyo  na  incut  |  taiya  ha  murJhu  mtpapi'ila  |  (uj,a  ha  apt  ant/ad  many*- 
man.\h  pannttuhine  luthiny  aptfahruli  |  "I  lul  thro  mgtnliiiij  tbJl  I'unisha  Ut  the 

Upani*hadj.  If  thou  ehalt  not  explain  hint  to  roe,  thy  head  shall  foil  off.  8  aJcalya 
Jiil  i»>t  undorttand  LhU  INirn»h«.  So  his  htid  fell  off;  end  robber*  earned  oil  Lit 
boaca,  taking  Ikrni  for  totnctliiac;  else."     (CODmsm  1  King*  ziii.  '22,  and  Jercaaiah 

•  iii.  1,  i).   See  alio  the  storr  of  Atjoiahas  Aruni  ind  Pluluha  DaTyAmpati  in  TsiSW 

llr.  iii.  10.  9,  3-0. 


RXQABDINO  A  PUTTEE  EXISTENCE 


817 


'Henceforward  no  other  being  ahall  become  immortal  with  big  body, 
when  thou  shult  bnvo  seized  that  part  (the  body).4*'  Now,  every  ouo 
who  is  to  become  immortal  through  knowledge,  or  by  work,  shall 
become  immortal  after  parting  with  his  body.'  This  which  they  said, 
'  by  knowledge  or  by  work,'  means  that  knowledge  which  ia  Agni,  tli.it 
work  which  is  Agni.  10.  Those  who  to  know  this,  or  who  perform 
this  rite,  are  born  agnin  after  dr-uLh  ;  and  by  being  so  bom,  they 
attain  immortality.  Whilst  those  who  do  not  so  know,  or  who  do  not 
perform  this  rite,  are  indeed  born  again  after  death,  but  become  again 
and  again  hia  (death's)  food."  Seo  the  -ith  vol.  of  this  Work,  pp. 
48  ff.,  where  this  passage  is  given  with  its  context.] 

Professor  Weber  proceeds :  "Bat  whereas,  in  the  eldest  times,  im- 
mortality in  the  abodes  of  the  blessed,  where  milk  and  huney  How 
(xi.  5,  6,  4)'1*  is  regarded  as  the  reward  of  virtue  or  wisdom,  nrhilfit 
the  sinner  or  the  fool  is,  after  a  short  life,  doomed  to  the  annihilation 
of  bis  personal  existence,  the  doctrine  of  the  lirahniarjaa  is  that  after 
death  all  ere  born  again  in  the  next  world,  where  they  urv  recompensed 
according  to  their  deeds,  the  good  being  rewarded,  end  the-  wicked 
ptadthed  (ri.  2,  2,  27 ;  x.  6,  3,  I ;  xi.  7,  2,  23)."  •» 


"»  It  appears,  however,  from  the  Taitt.  8.  ri.  (p.  t,'a  of  the  Indian  Office  MS.), 
that  mnti  were  also  SMM  :'•  lei  Bj  ..  '■■:<  .■  to  heaven  without  dying.  ib-aAsHsroVii* 
wUkU  "  Ms  foW  f/tynt  yyamaHah  Airutt  yttHJhran  twvuryom  Ulmm  lit"  ili  |  jit*- 
SVaAs  ni  <*ha  yad  aJ&iliyv  'nabkUkntuwy*  grihnnti  \jhwt:*m  tv*  nam  tumrfm 
loimm  y»nf  •/•><•  I  "  Men  vrrwd  in  aocrcd  science  say  •  What  du«  the  sacrifice* 
perform  in  the  aicritice  by  which  lie  aacciul*  tu  b««vm  »lirof  This  aiUbbya 
libation  u  an  offering  of  the  living  [Roma,  ijt.  of  th«  plant  am-nubed,  according  to 
Bdbtliagk  aod  Both,  a^/ssayrsAwji  (tin-  prie»t)  offers  thu  without  powing  it  out; 
and  couvtn  the  wonhippex  slivt  to  heaven." 

•^  li.  6,  0,  3  f.  (See  the  3rd  vol.  of  thi»  work,  where  thU  passage  i$  cited  in  ths 

origins'  with  its  contort)  .  "  Study  of  the  Vcdas  is  the  Brahasn-ascrificc The 

rasa  who,  knowing  tint,  daily  praciiica  the  study  of  Uu>  Yedaa,  conquer*  thrice  as 
vast  a  rrgiun— smi  that,  too,  undecaying— aj  Ihu  Ngion  whiefa  he  conquer*  who 
bestows  this  whole  earth  tilled  with  wealth.  Wherefore  slu.it  of  th»  Ve«U*  i.  to  b* 
practucd.  4.  Vent*  of  the  Hit.  are  oblations  of  milk  to  the  gods,  lie  who,  knowing 
this,  daily  studio  tin;  IUr-tcUs,  does  in  fact  satisfy  the  gods  with  oblations  of  milk  ; 
and  they,  when  satisfied,  satiify  him  with  prosperity,  with  breath,  with  gaosran'va 
power,  with  completeness  in  hi>  Mag;  with  all  excellent  pcasesrisms.  (Compare 
ITatap.  Ur.  ri.  5.  7.  6,  and  A.V.  iv.  3t.  6,  7.) 

*•»  ri.  %  3,  27 :  Tiumad  iiui,  if*'*"  *»*»■•  **»r«**c  'Hi  jZyt,  |  '•Il.nc*  they 
say  that  s  man  i*  l».,rn  into  the  world  which  he  has  made."  x.  6,  3,  I  :  Mk* 
kh»t*  kmtumwft  'f*m  finritiha^  |  m  rinlkrmtwr  *jam  aeawi/  loJbit  jirtili  rt*m- 
krMftr  Ad  am n/i  fokam  prelum  abhimmbkttati  |  ■  Now  truly  this  man  la  antapcaxd  of 


318 


QUOTATIONS  FROM  LATER  WORKS 


[The  Satapatha  Brahmana,  however,  also  expresses  the  conception  of 
a  higher  state  than  that  of  desire  and  gratification,  in  a  passage  (z.  5,  A, 
15)  where  it  is  said :  IS.  So  'tya  atha  unxuym  anlam  ma  Qltna  |  m  ess* 
jarruMlm  apQmmadhye  |  ta  e*ha  tarvaik  lumaik  tompannak  )  Spa  r*V  ton* 
IdiwrlA  |  in  t*ha  ak&mak  tariakumo  na  hy  rtai*  Latyaekana  Jtfmak  ]  IS. 
Tad  aha  state  blutxati  "  cidyayil  tad  urohanti  yalra  tvjrwfi  parGaatdh  | 
bo  Arfra  ifo/biiiwlA  »•«•*»  ttdfidcdrhiai  tapawinak"  Hi  \  ma  ka  mm  tarn 
lakaim  daJuhutubhir  na  iapasd  'netamvid  einuta  \  evaiatidum  ka  ma  m 
lokak\ 

"  This  soul  is  the  cud  of  all  this.  It  abides  in  thu  midst  of  all 
the  waters.  It  is  supplied  with  all  objects  of  desire.  For  the  waiaia 
arc  all  the  objects  of  desire.4"  This  (soul)  is  free  from  desire,  and 
(yet)  possesses  all  tho  objects  of  desire,  for  it  desires  nothing.  15.  Oa 
this  subject  there  is  this  Terse :  '  By  knowledge  men  ascend  to  that 
condition  in  which  desires  have  passed  sway.  Thither  gift*  do  not 
roach,  nor  austere  devotees  who  are  destitute  of  knowledge.  'm  For  a 
person  who  does  not  possess  this  knowledge  docs  not  attain  that  world 
by  gifts  or  by  rigorous  abstraction.  It  pertains  only  to  those  who 
hare  such  knowledge."]** 


sacrifice.  So  many  «ocrilkm  in  hn  hiu  performed  when  hr  ilermrw.  from  this  world, 
with,  to  many  i»  ho  bom  in  tbc  other  world  alter  hit  death." 

**•  Compare  Taitt.  Ur.  iii.  12,  2.  6:  Apia  rat  mm  iu«i*  Iriioh  |  "1b  tl* 
waters  all  object*  of  danre  are  contained." 

***  Thu  rer««  L*  i|Uutul  m  S  laltSSa'S  Commentary  on  the  Brahraa  Sutnu,  jrp.  OH 
and  W2,  of  the  edit,  in  Bill.  luJ. 

***  la  another  pajeajto  a  curious  contrast  i*  drnwn  between  two  different  kiade  of 
Ssoriflosn,  tho  ifwayiyiit  raid  the  lin-aynjin,  S'stap.  Br.  xi.  2.  8,  13  :  iMmayi/i 
■rvyufi  |  AvaySjT  it]/  atmayitfT  ili  ka  briifat  |  m  Ail  mi  Slmaya/i  *■»  ■"*"  "***—  mm 
mm  an  fit  utuukriyati  idam  mt  omtmm  ongam  upaJKiyat*"  Hi  |  tm  ymikii  'ku  Ir+rU 
nirmmhytU  mam  umii  martyat  dariral  papmm**  mirmifiystt  m  nrnmaya  fmrnr- 

mtyH  timamay*k  akmlima»tah  n—ym  Mum  aiki  mnUaili  |  *f  A*  ha  m  mmmyifi 
mo  ants  dmam  ma  akam  Utm  ftit  ataan  aamarpmyami  Ui  m  ftika  irtrmm  mSptfim 
Uiiih  lata  nnJyo  mi  mjih  Ultm  land  maim  to  as  Am  ma  litomttm,  lotam  f*mM 
•atmmlmm  ittraJt  |  "Ha  who  aacrutoa*  to  himself  a  oaparior.  X  nan  ahaaJd  osy, 
'  There  it  a  worshipper  who  aaerineas  to  to*  gods,'  sad  'another  whe  sstrrliM  u 
himself.'  Be  who  underatand*  that  by  racb  and  each  [a  rite]  rub  and  mack  a 
ono  of  his  members  is  ratified,  and  that  by  tucb  and  euch  another  rite  rach  oad  sack 
another  of  his  mem  ben  is  restored.— he  ii  the  rtemon  who  eoeriSore  to  bjmaeh* ;  ha  ■ 
freed  from  this  mortal  body,  from  nn  (or  mieery),  u  a  eerprnt  it  fried  fraca  its  wora- 
BM  sUsi  and  ao}uiring  the  nature  of  the  Rii.  Yajaafa.  and  Siaua,  oad  of  'tTritlWt 
be  ettaiiM  to  hearea.  2.  Ob  the  otber  aasd,  bo  woo  aaoeratande  that  with  «a*h  ead 
luch  ss  oblatieu  be  weeshJpe  the  gtxU,  and  otfen  it  wf  to  tbeeo,  at  like  aa  iaisner 


. 


BEGA£DI>'Q  A  FUTURE  EXISTENCE. 


319 


Profeaaor  Weber  adds  in  a  note :  "According  to  a  very  ancient  con- 
ception, the  soul,  after  being  breothed  forth  from  tho  body,  ascends  to 
the  abodes  of  the  blessed  on  the  wings  of  the  air,  of  the  wind  (Eppeia* 
ifaxorrofrrros),*"  having  itself  been  changed  into  an  aerial  form.  With 
this  is  connected  the  later  idea  of  the  resolution  of  the  senses  of  the 
dying  into  fire,  sun,  moon,  wind,  and  tho  regions  of  the  eky  •*•  (x.  3,  3, 
8  ;  xiv.  6,  2,  13),  and  tho  still  more  modern  and  systematic  notion  of 
their  being  resolved  into  tho  five  elements.  In  ono  place  (i.  9,  3, 
10)"*  I  find  tho  idea  that  tho  rays  of  the  sun  arc  themselves  the  pious 

who  presents  tribute,  to  a  superior,  or  u  n  Vais'rn  lirinu-i  tribute  to  »  king ;  and  be 
doc*  not  conquer  fur  himself  to  great  n  world  an  the  other  dot*."     lYsfetsor  Aufrreht 

b  iLlf.  ■r.vnee  bsMmil  the  ifnw  of  ntmuyajim  here 
•nil  in  Munu,  xii.  91,  us  u  indicated  in  tho  Lexicon  si  Mit%  Boktlixurk  and  liolh, 
and  thit  in  the  passage  be fort  a*  u/nmn  mait  bo  taken  in  the  Vedantic  seats,  and 
;  to  menu   "  be  who  sacrifices  I  la,  in  bin  own 

indiiiduality.  a*  an  integral  purt  nf  tho  universal  soul,"  quoting  KullQka  on  Mann, 
xii.  91,  in  proof  of  this  tense,     lit-  uIbo   refers  to  8'alap.   Br.  x.  3,  2, 13  (*i»i 

tAk*H.1ii\    in    dim'-  |*M  .f<  |  rtjrib*UsA*fl  <hh*nJ*k  apt  artala    M 

ktani  |  ta  ttka  Htm^n-lya  tto  |  rtmttmityo  ha  Hnh,  •iry-tloA  /ram  atmStam  al'hinm- 

tVAaewri),  which  I  translate:  "  What  the  metre,  what  deity  an  the  thing*  which  *th 
defective  or  nipcrnnow  t  The  nyu«ak*kara  (metre  with  deficient  syllables)  it  tho 
metro:  ttor  water*  aiu  the  deity  representing  the  thing*  which  Bra  dVftx'tivo  or  super. 
iIuuum.  Thi*  is  to*  knowledge  of  tool.  Be  who  is  compared  of  thii  attain*  to  Uicm) 
to  tin*  soul."  Here  th*  knowledge  of  soul  in  the  VedunUc  scuae  may 
be  referred  to.  Cut  in  the  prc/riotus  pnaou^r  the  atnuiya/in  is  represented,  not  aa 
attaining  to  soul,  but  to  heaven,  a  destination  which  he  wbo>  has  a  knowledge  of  soui 
in  the  Vcsbmlic  sense  no  longer  desire*. 

•**  Compare  A.V.  xviii.  2,  21  (.,  quoted  above. 

*»•  x.  3,  3,  8:  Sa  ytuta  fromt-uf  a. mil  Uial  praili ritka  n*  Ajiim  opyiU  f\oU>\**>.» 
jtditytii  miiwi  Chamdrmm  ircl'rmi  lhi'tK  prawns  r'aasrai  |  (<s  ttitmtyik  ere 
»A«(ru  rtatim  dtWtinSSn  yiSt  t/i'im  iumtytU  «3  Oiidi  iUpui  |  "  Whoever  defaula 
from  ih:  -■  «  orlil  knowing  this  goes  with  his  voice  to  fire  (Agai),  with  hit  eya  to  the  ain 
(Aditys  |  compare  ft  V.  x.  10,  3,  quoted  above),  with  bis  raiud  (ipmuisw)  to  the  moos, 
with  bis  ear  to  the  tvgionc.  with  his  breath  {prima)  to  the  wind  (V*yu;  eonparo 
R  V.  v.  t6,  3}.  Having  attained  the  nature  of  these,  and  boeune  any  one  of  the** 
deitie*  that  he  dsaire*,  be  xvtta."    xiv  6, 2, 13  ;  ....  p.  ««  f.)  i  I*tr* 

swy*  pMruikatya  mrira/ya  tynim  ray  apyiii  tnltm  pravu  tkaiukmr  adityxum  mmnaJ 
eAmtdram  dUak  jrotram  priChinm  itMliWM  aaostun  o/smj  mketlhir  [omami  tanatptlln 
Asaii  apn  iohitam  eka  rttai  ehs  nMiyaft  tea  aymm  tida  pmiuko  bkawU  |  "When 
the  voiea  of  the  departed  ton]  goea  to  fir*,  his  breath  to  the  wind,  his  eye  to  the  sun, 
his  saind  to  the  moon,  his  hearing  to  the  regions,  his  body  to  th*  earth,  hi- 
th*  wther,  the  bail*  of  hie  body  to  the  plant*,  the  hair*  of  his  head  to  the  trvea,  his 
blood  and  hi*  eenunel  fluid  to  the  water*, — where  then  ia  this  ipint  i  " 

**•  i.  9.  J.  10  :  l'ah  rtkm  taptti  Imaym  y»  rasMatwa  U  niXyitmk  \  mJk*  yml  pmnm 
this  rntfipasir  ra  seeree  ti  loUA  |  "That  raya  of  him  who  thine*  (tho  sun)  are  tho 
pious.    The  light  which  at  above  It  PrajipaU.  or  the  heavenly  world." 


no 


QfOTATIOX8  FBOM  LATER  WORKS 


(tvifila*)  ;  and  in  another  (vi.  o,  4,  8)1*  the  conception  that  the  (tan 
aro  the  lights  of  the  righteous  who  go  to  heaven.  With  thia  the 
similar  statement  in  Uu  Iinlmlokfignmana  may  be  compared." 

The  following  are  soirjo  other  passages  of  the  Brnhmagna  (not  cited 
by  Professor  TYi-bcr)  regarding  future  rewards.  In  the  Sutnp.  Br. 
6,  2,  2,  3,  it  is  said  :  "  He  who  sacrifices  thus  obtains  perpetual  pros- 
perity and  renown,  and  conquers  for  himself  on  union'"  with  these 
two  gods  (Aditya  and  Ayni),  and  an  abode  in  the  same  sphere."  (See 
the  original  passages  with  the  context  in  the  1st  vol.  of  this  Work, 
pp.  426  frr.)  In  the  same  work  (ii.  6,  4,  8)  it  is  said  that  those  whe 
offer  particular  sacrifices  become  Agni,  Varan*,  or  Indra,  and  attain  to 
union,  and  to  the  same  spheres,  with  those  gods  respectively  (**  ysd 
raiiradeiena  yajate  Aynir  era  tarhi  bhavaty  Ayner  tea  itiyu/'yam  lalol- 
ctuth  jayati  \  atfm  yai  Tarunaprayhiltair  yajatt  Jlmnah  «vm  tarki 
Ihiun/i  (tfddf).  And  in  the  same  way  tho  Tiiittirfyu  Brahmana,  iiL 
10, 11,  6  (.,  states  that  the  possessors  of  particular  kinds  of  knowledge 
attain  to  union  with  Aditya  (the  Sun),  and  to  union,  and  to  tho  anna 
spheres,  with  Agni,  with  Vayu,  with  Indra,  with  Br  1  ;iipati,  with 
Fruji'innti,  and  with  Brahma.  In  tho  same  work,  iiL  10,  9,  11,  men- 
tion  is  made  of  a  certain  sage  who,  through  his  knowledge,  became  a 
hi,  went  to  heaven,  and  attained  to  union  with  the  sun 
(Ahtno  ha  A&vatthyah  $Svilram  tidAnthakara  \  l\.  Sa  ho  harhw  Mran- 
mayo  bhiitvil  tvargaih  lokam  iyuyn  udityatya  idyujyam).     Tlie  Kitap. 

«*'  vi.  6.  4.  8:  Ti  M  jimoA  ptmyakritah  irarpam  InkaSt  ytmti  IttKam  Hani  jy- 
limtlii  |  •'  Ths«o  (the  itont)  are  the  light*  of  the  practisMS  of  holy  act*  who  g»  to 
heaven."  Tli*  pm«aRO  of  the  IndraloVuganmna  (Mob.  iii.  1745  ft".),  rvf*rrcd  to  by  Plw 
ibwor  Weber,  i»  •»  follows:  .Vu  tatra  turyajf  tvma  rS  d'jvtalt  nark* pantkak  | 
Btapfitt  pt*bk*ga  tatra  dyataiita  j/unyaJaf-J/iayi  |  lardritpSni  yuWAa  Ariipme* 
dputimavti  rai  |  1747.  Diparad  eiprakriiltfattal  Curium  nuttaaanty  apt  |  [ant  tatra 
prabhatranli  ruyavtmti  tha  ttmdatiah  |  1748.  I)*-t*rJa  ttvj/iu  diuMnyniu  d'tpammmU 
iiMya  'rehitha  \  tatra  rajarihayah  tulilhah  erraicA*  mkatah  yuJki  |  1741.  Xu 
■<*))  fnrlkn  rtr-t/iN  rMijAnyriAe  ttea*t\ilah  |     1768.  Van  Jrukfarom  mii  et&to 

lartiriipini  ihutalt  |  "The  nil  »hin«  not  there  (in  Indra 's  baavea),  nor  the  ronou. 
Tin  n  ilic  righteous  ehinc  by  thoir  own  light,  acquired  by  ihtir  own  virtue. 
Arjuns  beheld  there,  ihining  in  tli'ir  own  iphrrr.,  luminou»  and  heaouful,  thoae 
bright  furmi  of  the  stain  which,  when  *t«n  from  the  earth,  appear  from  dutaii.f  to 
he  si  •mull  an  Inmpa,  although  tliry  are  very  tact."  •*  Thwe,"  m  Aijuna'i  eondatlar 
rxpluinui  to  him,  "  MM  thu  nfthteotu  octrjpying  their  ova  »phcre»,  whom,  whea  %» 
earth,  hn  bid  wn  in  Oto  iky  in  the  form  of  »tat»." 

'**  1  b«  word  nagujfft,  "dote  union,"  here  used,  seeuj  to  prepare  the  way  C 
and  mmlit,  •'dul»o]utlo^,'•  or  "  absorption,"  into  taostrprcmc  *pirtt. 


tad 


RBOABDINO  A  FUTURE  EXISTENCE. 


H21 


Br.  xi.  A,  4,  1,  also  speaks  of  union  with  Brahma :  Shad  tai  Brah- 
ma  no  dtiirah  Agnir  J'&yur  Apai  Chandramah  r'idyui  Adilyah  |  21.  Sa 
yah  upadaydhma  havithd  yajaU  Aynin<1  1a  ha  Brahmano  dtarena  pre- 
UpadyaU  |  to  'gm'nA  Ura-hmam  dvdrtna  pratipadya  Jirahmanah  *6yu- 
t'yam  ialokatdrk  jayati  \  "  There  are  six  doom  to  Brahma,  rix.,  Agni, 
Yayu,  the  Waters,  the  Moon,  Lightning,  the  Sun.  2.  Ho  who  sncri- 
fioes  wilb  a  burst  offering,  arrives  by  Agni,  as  the  door  to  Br»hmf< ; 
and    having   so  arrived,  ho   attains  to  a  union   with  Brahma,  and 

ibita  in  Qusvu1'  '[.in'ir  v.jiii  ban."   iii  a. v.  ox.  7,  i,  i.  ■  ft— i*— 

loka  is  mentioned.  [For  tlic  Puranio  idea  of  the  world  of  Brahmu, 
MO  Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  4to.  ed.,  p.  48,  note  3,  and  p.  213,  note 
3  (or,  for  tho  first  of  theso  passages,  Professor  Hall's  8vo.  ed.,  vol.  t. 
p.  98),  and  for  the  second,  vol.  ii.  p.  228,  of  the  same  edition.] 

In  the  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  5,  6,  0,  it  is  declared  that  a  man  who  reads 
the  Vedas  in  a  particular  manner  is  "  freed  from  dying  again,  and 
attains  to  a  sameness  of  nature  with  Brahma  {_Jlrahman»h  tulmairlm). 
Even  if  he  cannot  read  with  much  power,  let  him  read  one  sentence 
relating  to  tho  gods."  (Seo  the  original  passage  with  tho  context  in 
the  3rd  vol.  of  this  Work,  pp.  18  ff.) 

Tho  following  curious  passage  is  from  the  Aitarfya  Brahmana, 
iii.  44  :  S*  tai  nha  na  kadaehana  an  tarn  t.ti  na  ttdtti  \  ta§t  yad  attam 
tti  Hi  manyanU  ahnah  era  tad  anient  itrd  atha  lUntHnaSt  riparyatyat* 
n'ltrim  $va  atatlut  kurute  ahah  parattnl  \  atha  yad  tnam  prater  utitli  Hi 
manyanU  rAtrtr  tta  tad  tin/am  it«l  atha  dtmSnam  riparyatyatt  ahar  tta 
atattal  kurute  r<ktr\m  parmUU  |  *a  tai  etha  na  kadacfuma  nimrwhati  | 
t»a  ha  tai  kadachana  mmrochali  etatya  ha  luyujyam  tarupatdih  talolatam 
ainute  yah  etam  xtda  yah  ttaUt  ttda  | 

"  The  8un  neither  ever  sets  or  rises.  When  people  think  he  seta  be 
(only)  turns  himself  round,  uftcr  reaching  tho  end  of  the  day,  and 
makes  night  below  and  day  above.  Then  when  people  think  he  rises 
in  the  morning  he  (only)  turns  himself  round  after  reaching  the  end  of 
the  night,  and  makes  day  below  and  night  above.  In  truth,  he  never 
■eta.  Tho  man  who  knows  this,  that  the  sun  never  sets,  enjoys  union 
and  sameness  of  nature  with  him,  and  abides  in  the  came  sphere."  ** 

*•*  Sea  Prof.  Hang'*  Aitareja  Itrohmaos,  ii.  p.  343.  I  after  from  that  scholar  in 
tnraluing  parattat,  "abovs,"  and  not  "on  tii*  othsr  au)i>."  Compare  Int.  StnL 
fab  p.  378.    8«c  slss  Vishnu  Purioa,  ii.  8 ;  p.  341  of  Dr.  11  all's  edition  of  Wilson's 

Translation,  vol.  u 

31 


32'2       PROFESSOR  WEBER'S  EXPLANATION  OF  THE  ORIGIN 


In  another  passage  (ii.  17)  tbo  same  work  declares  how  far  hi 
is  from  earth:  Sahatram  an*chya*t  itoroakumatya  |  —ft— riUs-fiu  r*. 
itah  faryo  lokk  |  "  He  who  desires  heaven  should  repeat  a  thnw^M 
(verses).  For  the  heavenly  world  is  distant  from  hence  a  »h"»»wnd 
days'  journey  on  horseback." 

In  the  Kxtap.  Br.  vi.  6,  2,  4,  it  is  said  that  the  door  of  heaven 
{narga-loka)  is  situated  in  the  north-eastern  regions  (gad  u  era  uiau 
prdSt  tuhfhmn  \  tlatydm  ha  diii  swrrymya  fahuya  Jcaram),  whilo  that  by 
which  the  heaven  of  the  Fathers  is  entered,  lies  to  the  south-caat 
{pr&chim  eha  dakthinam  cha  |  ttaiytm  ha  Mi piSnUhuya  diuram,  ibid, 
nil.  8,  1,5)."" 

In  the  legend  on  future  retribution,  quoted  by  Weber,  aa  above 
Btated,  from  the  inmo  Bnlhmana  (xi.  fi,  1,  1  ff.)  it  is  related  that 
Bhrigu,  the  sou  of  Varunn,  visited,  by  his  fatlror's  command,  the  four 
points  of  the  compass,  where  he  saw  men  being  cut  into  pieces  and 
eaten  by  other  men,  who,  when  questioned  by  Bhrigu,  declared  that 
they  were  revenging  on  their  victim*  tho  trtntraent  which  they  had 
recciTcil  at  their  hands  in  the  other  world  (on  earth).  These  victims 
arc  nllcgoricolly  explained  in  the  llruhmanu  as  representing  the  trees, 
animals,  plants,  and  waters  employed  in  sacrifice.  But  Professor 
Weber  is  of  opinion  that  the  story  is  an  old  popular  legend  regarding 
the  penal  retribution  executed  by  the  former  sufferers  themselves  oa 
those  who  had  oppressed  them  whilo  on  earth,  and  that  the  narrative 
had  been  appropriated  by  the  priests  and  introduced  into  the  Brah- 
mana  to  relieve  the  monotony  of  its  tedious  disquisitions,  and  Tplain+d 
in  tho  manner  I  havo  stated. 

I   return   to  Professor  Weber's  discussion  of  tho  doctrine 
Brahman  ns  regarding  a  future  state. 

"The  Brahmnnas,  however,"  he  continues,  "are  not  explicit  ia 
regard  ia  the  duration  of  these  rewords  and  punishments  ;  and  it 
here  that  wo  have  to  seek  the  origin  of  tin:  doctrine  of  transmigration. 
To  men  of  tho  mild  disposition  and  reflective  spirit  of  tho  Indiana,  i 
would  not  appear  that  reward  and  punishment  could  be  eternal. 
would  conceive  that  it  must  be  possible  by  atonement  and  purification 
to  becomu  absolved  from  the  punishment  of  tho  sinB  committed  in  thi* 


z 

.it  ia 
it  is 
ition. 
n-,  ii 
They 
■tfc  . 


**•  See  Weber,  in  the  Journal  <•!  tie  German  Oriental  Society,  it  243,  506. 


OP  THE  DOCTRINE  OF  TRANSMIfiRATTON. 


323 


•hort  life.  And  in  the  same  way  they  could  not  imagine  that  the 
reward  of  virtues  practised  during  the  same  brief  period 
continue  for  ever.  The  dogma  of  transmigration  an»wervd  plainly  to 
both  of  these  suppositions,  though  in  another  respect  it  could  scarcely 
do  so ;  for  where  waa  cither  a  beginning  or  an  end  to  be  sought  ?  Tho 
spirit  of  inquiry  aought  to  escape  from  this  dilemma  by  systematic 
refinements  (itmderung),  but  only  became  more  hopelessly  entangled ; 
and  at  length  it  was  only  extricated  by  cutting  the  knot,  by  succumb- 
ing to  tho  influence  of  the  aspiration  after  complete  redemption  from 
the  bondage  of  the  world,  and  of  individual  existence ;  to  that  that 
destiny,  which  won  in  earlier  time*  regarded  as  the  greatest  punish* 
ment,  was  now  recognized  as  tho  highest  reward.  This  mode  of 
cutting  the  knot  is  the  work  of  Buddha  and  Buddhism ;  and  tho  best 
proof  that  tho  fundamental  substance  of  the  u  is  pre- Budd- 

histic is  (apart  from  all  other  evidence)  to  be  found  in  this,  that  they 
do  not  recognize  tho  existence  of  the  dilemma  in  question,  that  they 
know  nothing  of  the  contempt  of  life  to  which  wo  have  alluded,  but 
rather  express  with  directness  and  naivete'  u  fresh  and  genuine  loro  at 
existence,  and  a  yearning  after  immortality.  It  is  only  some  passages 
of  tho  Brihndiir.iij  vakii  and  ef  the  Chhandogya  Upanivhnd,  which  form 
on  exception  to  this  assertion ;  and  on  that  account  tlu-r  must  bo  held 
evidently  to  belong  to  tho  period  immediately  preceding  Buddha's 
appearance,  or  even  to  that  which  M  lowed  it" 

It  docs  not  quite  agree  with  tho  conclusion  here  announced 
that  the  passage  I  have  quoted  above  from  the  S'atapntha  Br&hmuna, 
xi.  5,  6,  9,  appears  to  speak  of  union  with  Brahma; — unless  Brahma, 
and  not  Brahma,  is  meant,  and  unless  the  word  siltmatd  is  to  be 
understood  in  some  other  sense  than  the  later  one  of  absorption  into 
suaMMoeo. 

Though  India,  Varurjn,  and  other  gods  are  represented  in  tho  Mali- 
bharnta  and  Furtnas  as  leading  a  sensual  and  immoral  life,"'  and 
though  the  Apsarases,  or  celestial  nymphs,  are  expressly  declared  to  be 
courtesans,""  form  the  subject  of  most  voluptuous  descriptions,  *"  and  are 


"•  Bm  the  *lh  vol.  of  thii  Wmk,  p.  4 1. 

•«•  Ibid  p.  JIM  ;  sad  Rimfivsus,  I.  46.  W  (*d.  .Sthfej-rf}.  tod  i.  46. 3  (Odnctto). 
•"  8m  MthahhSrttt,   iii.   Is.'l  S. ;     Rim-yjgt,   I'ttart    K.g4*»  "»«•    >*  ■"• 
(Bombty  «d ). 


824 


QUOTATION  FROM  THE  MAHAlSHAlur.V 


represented  aa  being  sent  by  the  god*  from  time  to  time  to  seduce  austere 
•ago*  into  unehantity,  and  are  promised,  as  wo  hare  already  sees,  as  the 
companions  of  warriors  in  a  future  life, — yet  the  pictures  drawn  of 
paradise  in  those  works  are  not  always  of  such  a  gross  character.  la 
tha  account  of  the  highest  stage  of  heavenly  blessedness  contained  in  the 
Mahiibhftrnta,  iii.  1  .'>  4 II  fl*.,  there  is  no  promise  of  any  sensual  gratification 
held  ont.  It  appears  (rv.  15407-15487)  that  a  sage  named  31  udgala  had 
lived  a  life  of  poverty,  piety,  and  self-restraint,  offering  hospitality  to 
thousands  of  Kruhinans,  according  to  his  humble  means,  with  the  grain 
which  he  gleaned  like  a  pigeon  (kupot\5t  vrittin  utthilah),  and  which 
(like  the  widow  of  Zarephath's  oil)  never  underwent  diminution,  or 
rather  increased  again  when  it  was  required  (verse  15413:  brlJu'drt- 
na*ya  tad  fly  atya  dadatti  'tnutm  mah'itmanah  |  iitifam  muttaryaMnatya 
vardhaty  atitfiidarianeit).  At  length  another  holy  roan,  called  Ihirvuts, 
famous  in  Indian  traditiou  for  his  irascible  temper,  csmc  to  prove  Mud- 
gala's  powers  of  endurance ;  and  six  times  devoured  all  the  food  which 
the  hospitable  saint  possessed.  Finding  that  the  temper  of  his  host  was 
altogether  unaffected  by  these  trials,  Durv&sas  expressed  the  highest 
admiration  of  his  virtue,  and  declared  that  he  would  go  bodih 
heaven.  As  he  spoko  these  words  a  messenger  of  the  gods  arrived  in  a 
celestial  car,  and  called  upon  Mudg.da  to  ascend  to  a  state  of  complete 
I" -rfccttoB.  The  sag*)  baw\  ■••■(t,  desired  first  to  learn  the  advantages 
and  drawbacks  of  the  heavenly  etato,  and  the  messenger  proceeded  to 
tell  him  (vv.  154 1 1  If.)  first  what  kind  of  people  go  there,  vis.,  those 
who  have  performed  austerities  or  celebrated  great  sacrifiocs,  the  truth- 
ful, the  orthodox,  the  righteous,  the  Belf-restroincd,  the  meek,  the 
lilirral,  the  brave,  etc.  These  celestial  abodes  wen,  be  said,  shining, 
glorious,  aud  filled  with  all  delights.  There  is  seen  the  vast  golden 
mountain  Mem,  and  the  holy  garden  Nandana,  etc,  where  the  righ- 
teous disport.  There  hunger,  thirst,  weariness,  cold,  heat,  fear,  are 
unknown ;  there  is  nothing  disgusting  or  disagreeable  ;  the  scents  are 
delightful ;  the  sounds  ore  pleasant  to  the  ear  and  mind ;  there  is  no 
sorrow,  nor  lamentation,  nor  decay,  nor  labour,  nor  envy,  nor  jealousy, 
nor  delusion.  There  the  blessed  are  clothed  with  glorious  bodies, 
which  are  produced  by  their  works,  and  not  generated  by  any  father 
•  r  mother.  Their  garlands  are  fragrant  and  unfading ;  they  ride  in 
aerial  care,     lieyund   these   regions  there   are,  however,  others  of 


REGARDING  FUTimF.  FELICITY. 


888 


higher  character — those  to  which  the  riahis,  who  hnvo  been  purified 
by  their  works,  proceed.  Still  further  on  are  those  whero  the 
Jlibhii*,  who  are  gods  even  to  tho  gods,  dwell,  and  where  there 
is  no  annoyance  occasioned  by  women  (itrl-krifau  (tJpat>),m  or  by 
envy  arising  from  tho  sight  of  worldly  grandeur.  The  blessed  there 
do  sot  subsist  on  oblations,  nor  do  they  feed  upon  ambrosia ;  liny 
have  celestial  and  not  course  material  bodies.  Theso  eternal  gods  of 
gods  do  not  desire  pleasure;  they  do  not  ohange  with  the  revolutions 
of  Kalpoe  (great  mundane  ages).  How  can  they  then  be  si 
cither  to  decay  or  death?  They  experience  neither  joy,  nor  pleasure, 
nor  delight,  neither  happiness  nor  suffering,  neither  love  nor  hatred. 
That  highest  state,  go  difficult  to  attain,  and  which  is  beyond  tho  reach 
of  tli <>««•  who  seek  after  pleasure  (ayamyd  kCmti-pocharaih),  is  desired 
even  by  the  gods.  This  celestial  felicity,  tho  messenger  says,  is  now 
within  ifudgala's  reach, — the  fruit  of  his  good  deeds.  The  speaker 
next,  according  to  his  promise,  explains  the  drawbacks  of  the  heavenly 
state.  As  the  fruit  of  works  dono  on  earth  is  enjoyed  in  heaven, 
whilst  no  other  new  works  arc  performed  thcro  from  which  new 
rewards  could  spring,  this  enjoyment  is  cut  off  from  its  root,  and 
must  therefore  come  to  on  end  (verse  15468  S  kritiuya  karma  *as 
intra  bhujyato  yal  fAtffaA  diii  |  im  th&nyat  kriyaU  karma  mQfo-thhttlena 
VkvjyaU).  For  this  world  in  the  place  for  works,  while  the  other  U 
the  place  for  reward  (verse  14 175 :  karmsbhamir  iyam  brahman  pka- 
lahhumir  atau  maid).  This  loss  of  gratifications  to  which  the  heart 
has  become  devoted,  and  tho  dissatisfaction  and  pain  which  arise  in  the 
minds  of  thoso  who  have  sunk  to  a  lower  estate,  from  beholding  tho 
more  brilliant  prosperity  of  others,  is  intolerable.  To  this  must  be  added 
the  consciousness  and  the  bewilderment  of  those  who  so  descend,  and 
the  fear  of  falling  which  they  experience  when  their  garlands  begin  to 
fade.  Such  are  tho  defects  which  attach  to  all  existence  till  it  U 
absorbed  in  Brahma.  But  the  state  of  those  who  have  fallen  from 
heaven  is  not  altogether  without  compensation.  As  a  result  of  their 
previous  good  deeds  they  are  born  in  a  condition  of  happiness ;  though, 
if  they  ore  not  vigilant,  they  sink  still  lower.  Having  given  this 
explanation,  the  messenger  of  tho  gods  invites  Mudg&la  to  accompany 
him  to  paradise.  The  saint,  however,  after  consideration,  replies  that 
•»'  Compare  TUtc,  Republic,  i.  i. 


326     DIFFERENT  RESULTS  OP  WORKS  AND  OF  KNOWLEDGE. 


he  can  have  nothing  to  do  with  a  state  of  happiness  which  is 
by  so  great  defects,  and  the  termination  of  which  is  followed  by  bo  great 
misery.  lie  has  therefore  no  desire  for  heaven  ;  and  will  seek  only 
that  eternal  abode  where  there  is  no  sorrow,  nor  distress,  nor  change. 
He  tli  en  asks  the  celestial  messenger  what  other  sphere  there  ia  which 
is  free  from  all  defects.  Tho  messenger  replies,  that  above  the  abode 
tf  Jirahmu  is  the  pure  eternal  light,  the  highest  sphere  of  Viahrju,  who 
is  regarded  us  the  supremo  Brahma.  Thither  nono  can  proceed  who 
are  devoted  to  objects  of  sense,  or  who  are  the  slaves  of  dishonesty, 
avarice,  anger,  delusion,  or  malice;  but  only  the  unselfish,  the  humble, 
those  who  are  indifferent  to  pain  and  pleasure,  those  whose  senses  are 
under  rest  mi  tit,  and  those  who  practise  contemplation  and  fix  their 
minds  on  the  deity.  The  sage  then  dismissed  the  messenger  of  the 
pods,  began  to  practise  ascetic  virtues,  becoming  indifferent  to  praise 
and  blame,  regarding  clods,  stones,  and  gold  as  (dike.  Pare  knowledge 
led  to  fixed  contemplation  ;  and  that  again  imparted  strength  and 
complete  comprehension,  whereby  he  attained  supremo  eternal  per* 
fiction,  in  tho  nature  of  quietude  [nirruna']  [jnHaayogna  iuddhtn* 
.•.niti/o  SaUSM  ha  \  dhythwyogild  balaft  labdhtil  prupya  buddhtm 
aiiullamilm  |  jitg&ma  i&ivalhri  siddJu'm  par  dm  nirr-a'na-iakihanajm).m 

The  difference  between  tho  results  of  meritorious  works  end  of 
knowledge,  so  familiar  to  the  religious  philosophy  of  the  Hindus,  i» 
clearly  set  forth  in  the  following  verses  of  the  MfthiibhirotA,  xti.  S810  ff.: 

Karmanii  badhyata  j'antur  vidyayft  ttt  pritmvthyaU  \  tatm&l  karma  m 
kurvmli  yatayah  p&radariinah  \  8811.  KarmanQ  /'uyaU  prtlya  mirti- 
MM  tlmdaiutmakah  \  ridyayd  jGyatt  tiityam  atyaktam  hy  aiyaynlma- 
lam  |  8812.  Karma  tv  ek*  praiaifaanti  tvalpabuddhi-rattih  nnrtih  \  Una 
ti  deha-jCiluni  ramiti/untiih  apiafti  |  8813.  Ye  tma  buddhtm  pat  Am 
prilptah  dAarma-naipuna-darsi»ah  |  no  U  karma  praiamtanti  kapam 
nadyiltn  pilmnn  tea  |  8814.  Kanmuiuh  pKitlam  iipnoti  inkkadukkJu  bkay 
tab/u\i>au  |  vidijny<\  tad  av-iipnoti  yat-ra  gati<3  na  sachali  |  8815.  Yalra 
gair&  na  mriyalt  yalra  gnfrA  na  j&yatt  \  na  punar  JiyaU  yatra  yaira 
gated  na  varttat*  |  8816.  Yatra  tad  Brahma  paramam  aryaktam  acha- 
lam  dhrmam  \  aryulrtfum  anayStam  amritam  ch&viyogi  cha  | 


>s>  S«e  tho  other  pnuege*  <|ii-.t<il,  I ■'.,  I>>  Bohtlingk  uti  R/.lh,  bum   Brihamtami 
writing*   wlJCTfl  fti  bj   UikM  !>;:',»  to  cipctss  the 

I  destiny  of  mundane  creatures  U  well  Vnown. 


YAMA,  AND  A  PUTURE  LIPE.  A  METBICAL  SKETCH.        327 

"  By  worka  a  creature  us  bound ;  by  knowledge  he  u  liberated ; 
wherefore  devotee*  gifted  with  perfect  insight  perform  no  works. 
Through  works  a  creature  is  born  again  after  death,  with  a  body  (of 
one  or  other)  of  sixteen  descriptions ;  by  knowledge  he  becomes  the 
Eternal,  Imperceptible,  mill  Undccaying.  Some  men  of  little  under- 
standing eulogise  works,  and  bo  embrace  with  delight  the  entangle- 
ments of  corporeal  existence.  Cut  those  who  have  reached  the  highest 
intelligence,  and  a  perfect  comprehension  of  righteousness,  do  not 
pomraend  works,  as  a  person  drinking  from  a  river  thinks  little  of  a 
well.  Tho  results  which  a  man  obtains  from  works  are  pleasure  and 
pain,  prosperity  and  adversity ;  by  knowledge  ho  gains  that  condition 
in  which  his  griefs  are  at  an  end,  in  which  he  dies  not,  in  which  his 
birth  U  not  repeated,  from  which  he  does  not  return ;  in  which  that 
supreme  Bruhma  exists  imperceptible,  unchanging,  etc.,  etc." 


(7)  Yuma,  and  a  future  life, — a  mtirieal  iktUh. 

To  great  king  Tama  homage  pay. 

Who  was  the  first  of  men  that  died, 
That  crossed  the  mighty  gulf,  and  apii  •! 

For  mortals  out  the  heavenward  way. 

No  power  can  ever  close  the  road 
"Which  he  to  us  laid  open  then, 
By  which  in  long  procession  nun 

Ascend  to  his  sublime  abode. 

By  it  our  fathers  all  have  passed ; 

And  that  same  path  we  too  shall  trace, 
And  every  new  succeeding  race 

Of  mortal  men,  while  time  shall  hut. 


The  god  assemble*  round  his  throne 

A  growing  throng,  the  good  and  wise — 

All  those  whom,  scanned  with  searching  eyes, 

He  recognises  as  his  own. 


328        YAMA,  AND  A  FCTUOE  LITE,  A  METRICAL  8KETCH. 

Departed  mortoJ,-*  speed  from  earth 

By  those  old  wap  thy  sires  have  trod ; 
Ascend,  behold  tho  expectant  god 

"Who  culls  theo  to  a  higher  birth. 

First  must  each  several  dement 

Thut  joined  U»  form  thy  living  frame 
Flit  to  the  region  whence  it  came, 

And  with  it*  parent  source  bo  blent 

Thine  eye  shall  neck  the  solar  orb, 
Tliy  life-breath  to  the  wind  shall  fly, 
Thy  port  ethereal  to  the  sky ; 

Thine  earthy  part  shall  earth  absorb. 

Thine  unborn  part  shall  Agni  bright 
With  his  benignect  ray*  ill  nine, 
And  guide  it  through  the  trackless  gloom 

To  yonder  sphere  of  life  and  light. 

On  his  resplendent  pinions  rise, 
Or  soar  upon  a  car  aloft, 
By  Wind-gods  fanned  with  breezes  soft, 

Until  thou  enterest  paradise. 

And  calmly  pass,  withont  alarm, 

Tho  four-eyed  hounds  that  guard  tho  road 
Whieh  leads  to  Yuma'*  bright  abode : 

Their  master's  friends  they  dure  not  harm. 

All  imperfections  leave  behind : 

Assume  thine  ancient  frame  once  more, — 
Each  limb,  and  sea**,  thou  hadst  befoi  ■ 

From  every  earthly  taint  refined, 

**  The  iJriui  arc  thus  addressed  at  Amoral  eertmonisk. 


NACHiKETAS,  AN  ANCIENT  THEOSOPHIC  STORY. 

And  now  with  heavenly  glory  bright, 

With  lifi-  intinsor,  nobler,  li 

With  largu  c:ipiu'iiy  to  taste 
A  fuller  measure  of  delight 

Thou  there  once  more  each  well-known  face 
Shalt  see  of  those  thou  lovedst  hen  . 
Thy  parents,  wife,  and  children  dear, 

With  rapture  slialt  thou  soon  embrace. 

The  Fathers,  too,  ahalt  thou  behold, 

The  heroes  who  in  battle  died, 

The  aointa  and  sages,  glorified, 
The  pious,  bounteous,  kings  of  old. 

The  gods  whom  here  in  humblo  wise 

Thou  worshipped^  with  doubt  and  awe, 
Shall  there  the  impervious  veil  withdraw 

Which  hid  their  glory  from  thine  eye*. 

The  good  which  thou  on  earth  hast  wrought. 
Each  menace,  each  pious  deed. 
Shall  there  receive  its  ample  meed ; 

No  worthy  act  sliall  bo  forget 

In  those  fair  realms  of  cloudless  day, 
Where  Yama  every  joy  supplies, 
And  every  longing  satwnes, 

Thy  bliss  sliall  never  know  decay. 


m 


(8)  NatkikiUu,  an  ancient  Umttphie  *(ary,  mttruaUy  rendertd  fnm  th* 
Taitiiriya  Brahmana,  and  th»  Kafka  Upanukad. 

As  an  illustration  of  the  preceding  remarks  of  Professor  Weber  (in 
pp.  314  ff.),  on  the  subject  of  transmigration,  and  generally  of  the  later 
doctrine  of  the  Upaniahads  on  the  nature  and  destiny  of  the  soul, 
I  introduce  hero  a  free  metrical  translation  of  the  story  of  Nachiketas, 
as  told  briefly  in  the  Taittirlya  Brahmana,  iii.  11,  8,  Iff.,  and  in  • 


330  NACIIIKETA3,  AN  ANCIENT  TUE080rflIC  STORY. 

greatly  developed  form  in  the  Katha  Upanifthod.  An  English  trens- 
lntion  of  iliw  Upunishad,  by  Dr.  lloer,  will  be  found  in  the  llibliothoea 
Indica,  vol.  xv.  published  in  1853,  pp.  99  ff.,  and  a  German  version 
in  Windischmonn's  work,  entitled  "die  Fhilowpuia  im  Fortgaag  dor 
Weltgeechichtc,"  pp.  1700  ff. : 

Desiring  heaven,  a  sago  of  old 

With  sucj-ilkc  the  gods  adored  j 

Dovoting  to  the  priests  his  hoard 
Of  slowly- gathered  goods  and  gold. 

His  son,  young  Nachike'tas,  stood, 

And  saw  the  gifts  hin  father  brought 
To  give  the  priests :  "  My  sire,"  he  thought, 
"  His  vow  has  not  made  fully  good." 

"Thou  hast  not  all,  my  father,  piven 

Thou  hadst  to  give,"  he  calmly  said  ; 
"  One  offering  more  must  yet  be  modi-, 
If  thou  wouldst  hope  to  merit  heaven." 

"To  whom  shall  I  be  given,  my  sire  ?" 

His  father  deemed  the  question  vain ; 
Once  more  he  asked,  and  yet  again. 

"To  Death,"  his  father  cried  in  ire. 

He  rose  to  go  to  Death's  abode ; 

A  Voice  addressed  him  from  the  air, 
"  Go,  seek  Death's  house,  and  enter  there 
What  time  its  lord  shall  be  abroad : 

'•  Three  nights  within  his  mansion  stay, 

But  tastu  not,  though  a  guest,  his  food  ; 
And  when,  in  hospitable  mood 
He  comes  and  asks  thee,  thou  slialt  say :— 


NACHIKETAS,  AN  ANCIENT  TIIEOSOrWIC  8TORY.  331 

" '  I  in  tliy  house  three  nights  liuvo  post.' 

When  next  ho  asks,  •  What  didst  thou  cat  ?' 
Say,  '  First  thy  children  were  my  meat, 
Thy  cattle  next,  thy  merits  last' "  m 

Thn  youth  that  heavenly  Voioo  oheyed, 

And  dwelt  thmo  nights  ia  Death's  abode  ; 
When  questioned  by  hie  host,  the  god, 

lie  answered  as  the  Voice  had  said. 

Disturbed  that  thus  his  youthful  guest 
Had  not  been  filly  entertained, 
The  god,  to  make  amends  constrained, 

The  stranger  humbly  thus  addressed : — 

"  I  bow  before  thec,  reverend  child  ; 

I  pray  thec,  crnvo  a  boon  of  me." 
"My  father  let  me,  living,  Boe," 
The  boy  replied,  "  and  recuucilcd." 

To  whom  the  god — "  I  grant  thy  prayer ; 
But  ask  a  second  boon,"  replied. 
"  May  my  good  works,"  the  stripling  cried, 
Of  bliss  an  endless  harvest  bear." 

This,  too,  according,  Death  desired 

He  yet  one  boon  would  choose,  the  last. 
"  When  men  away  from  earth  hove  past, 
Then  live  they  still  'i  "  the  youth  inquired. 

"  To  solve  this  question,  dark  and  grave, 
Was  even  for  gods  too  hard  a  task : 
This  boon,  1  pray  thee,  cease  to  ask, 
My  son,"  said  Death,  "another crave." 

4,1   By  lh«c  words,  swarding  to  the  Indian  commentator,  it  in  intimated  that  the 

host  who  learn  sis  gutat  ■itfiuut  fu<*l  for  one  eight,  lusts  bis  children;  that  by  a 

►imilar  ai^Ioct  nn  thn  ascend  night,  he  loses  his  eattls ;  and  that,  finally,  be  fcrfriu 

<  ud  of  hi*  raoriti  is  a  tutors  life,  if  th«  gsett  is  allowed  to  Cut  daring  the 

third  night. 


332  N ACHIKFTAS,  AS  ANCIENT  THKOSOPHIC  STORY. 

Youth  Nackike'taa,  undeterred, 

Bfjuined,  "  The  boon  I  choose,  bestow ; 
Who  cun  like  thec  Uio  answer  know  ? 

No  boon  with  this  may  bo  compared." 

Death  said,  "Ask  all  thine  heart's  desire ; 

Sons  long-lived,  cattle,  gold,  demand, 

Elect  a  wide  domain  of  kind, 
And  length  of  days  from  mo  rcquiro ; 

"  Or  seek  what  earth  cannot  supply — 

Tho  love  of  witching  heavenly  brit. 
And  all  celestial  joys  beside* ; 
But  into  death  forbear  to  pry." 

The  youth  rejoined,  "The  force  of  man 
Ib  frail,  and  all  excess  of  joys 
His  feeble  organs  soon  destroys : 

Our  longest  life  is  but  a  span. 

"  Wealth  cannot  satisfy;  all  zest 

Of  pleasure  flies  before  thy  face ; 

Our  life  depends  upon  thy  grace : 

Once  more,  of  boons  I  crave  the  best ; 

11  For  who,  with  deathless  youth  though  crowned, 
And  godlike  force,  if  wise,  would  deign 
To  spend  on  endlera  life  in  vain 
In  carnal  joy's  disturbing  round?" 

When  thus  tho  stripling  had  withstood, 
Though  proffered  by  a  god,  the  lure 
Of  sensual  bliss,  and  craved  the  pure 

Delight  of  transcendental  good ; 

Then  Death,  who  knew  the  unborn  soul 
And  being's  essence,  taught  tho  youth 
The  science  of  the  highest  truth, 

Through  which  is  reached  the  final  goal : 


NACWKE-TAS,  AI?  AJ?CIEMT  THEOSOrniC  8TORY. 

"  Two  things  for  men's  regard  contend — 

The  good,  the  pleasant ;  he  who  wool 
The  good  is  blest ;  while  they  who  chooao 
The  pleasant  miss  the  highest  end. 

"  The  wise  between  the  two  discern. 

The  pleasant  spurn,  the  good  embrace, 
But  fools  the  pleasant  vainly  chase  ; 
To  lore  the  good  they  cannot  learn. 

"  The  first  take  knowledge  for  their  guide ; 
The  lust  by  ignorance  arc  led  : 
Tar,  far,  diverge  the  paths  they  tread, 
The  chasm  that  parts  their  goals  is  wide.       * 

*'  The  fools  who  ignorance  obey, 

Conceive  they  much  hare  learnt  and  Snow, 
But  roam,  unwitting  where  they  go, 
As  blind  men,  led  by  blind  men,  stray. 

"  Absorbed  in  sordid  cares  or  strife, 

The  men  whom  carlhly  passions  lire 
To  no  sublimer  aims  aspire, 
Nor  dream  of  any  future  life. 

"  Of  all  the  objects  men  can  know, 

The  highest  is  tho  soul,  too  high 
For  common  mortals  to  descry, 
Whoso  eyes  are  dazed  by  outward  show. 

"  Some  men  have  never  learnt  this  lore, 

And  some,  whom  sages  seek  to  teach, 
Possess  no  faculty  to  reach 
That  sacred  doctrine's  inner  core. 

"O  skilled  and  wonderful,  my  son, 

Is  ho  the  soul  who  gaias  and  knows ! 
This  subtile  science  only  those 
Coo  teach  who  think  the  soul  as  one. 


333 


334  NACHIKETAS,  AX  ANCIENT  TBR0SOPH1C  STORY. 

"  Tho  sage  whose  spirit's  gaze  intense 

This  God,  the  Soul  (from  fleshly  eyea 
Impenetrably  Tcilcd)  descries, 
No  longer  dotes  on  things  of  sense. 

"  Derived  from  no  anterior  source, 

The  soul,  tinhorn.  •  vtinpt  Im  mi    ill 
Tho  accidents  which  life  befall, 
Holds  od  its  everlasting  course. 

"  The  smiter  thinks  that  he  can  slay, 

The  smitten  fears  that  he  is  slain  : 
«     The  thoughts  of  both  alike  are  Tain  ; 
The  (soul  survives  the  murderous  fray. 

•'  Steel  cannot  out,  nor  cleave,  nor  tear, 
Nor  firo  consume,  nor  water  wet, 
Nor  winds  e'er  dry  it  up,  nor  yet 
Aught  else  its  deathless  essence  wear. 

"  A  man  casta  from  him  on  the  shelf 

Hi*  garment*  old,  nnd  newer  take* ; 
So  bodies  worn  the  soul  forsakes, 
And  new  assumes,  unchanged  itself.1" 

"  The  man  who  learns  the  soul  to  be 
Minute,  yet  infinitely  vast. 
He,  by  his  Maker's  grace,  ut  last 
Its  majesty  at'ains  to  see. 

*'  It  travels  far  and  wide,  at  rest; 

Moves  everywhere,  although  asleep  ; 
Say,  who  but  I  the  secret  deep 
Of  this  mysterious  god  lias  guessed  f 


Th«  idea*  in  thU  «ml  tho  pweding  renc  art  UUn  from  Uic  Bhngsradgftl. 


NACHIKETAS,  AN  ANCIENT  THEOSOPIIIC  STORT.  .335 

'    "  By  reasoning,  thought,  or  many  books, 
This  hidden  tool  is  sought  in  Tain ; 
That  man  alone  the  soul  may  gain 
On  whom  the  soul  with  favour  looks. 

"Elected  thus,  the  sage  believes 

His  oneness  with  the  Ono  supreme, 
Awakes  for  ever  from  the  dream 
Which  uninstructed  men  deceives ; 

"  And  soon  from  imperfection  purged, 

And  freed  from  circling  life  and  death, 
He  calmly  yields  his  vital  breath, 
And  in  the  sovereign  Soul  is  merged.4" 

«*  In  the  last  two  tow*  I  hare  stated  the  Vedantic  doctrine  more  explicitly  than 
it  ia  expressed  in  the  Kaiha  Upanuhad, 


ttfl 


SECTION  XIX. 


mixoe  Dirnrrras. 


TRITA  APTYA,  AHIRBUDH.VYA.  AND  A/A  EKAFAD. 

The  following  nrvsount  of  tho  deity,  Trita,  is  given  in  the  Lexicon 
Messrs.  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  ».v. :-  ■ 

"  Trita  is  the  name  of  a  Vedic  god,  who  appears  principally  in  con- 
nection with  the  Maruta,  Yata  or  Vayn,  and  Indra,  and  to  whom,  as 
to  these  other  deities,  comhata  with  demons,  Tvashtra,  Yritra.  the 
Serpent,  and  others  arc  ascribed.  He  is  called  Aptya,  and  bis  abode 
is  conceived  of  as  remote  and  hidden  :  hence  ariacs  tho  custom  of 
wishing  that  evil  may  depart  to  him.  He  bestows  long  life.  Several 
passages  show  the  lower  and  certainly  later  view  of  Trita,  that  ha 
fights  with  the  demons  uuJvr  the  guidance  and  protection  of  Indra, 
and  thus  lead  to  the  conception  of  a  rishi  Trita  (Nirukta,  iv.  6)." 

Reference  has  been  already  made  to  Trita  (a)  in  p.  1 1 7,  where  Pro- 
fessor Roth's  opinion,  that  he  was  an  ancient  god  superseded  by  Indra, 
is  quoted,  (J)  in  p.  2S0,  where  two  texts  (R.V.  x.  8,  8,  and  x.  99,  6), 
relating  to  his  conflu"  -  with  the  thrcc-headed  demon,  are  cited,  and 
(c)  in  p.  195,  where  u  prayer  to  Ushus,  to  drive  away  sleeplessness  to 
Trita  Aptya  (B  V.  viiL  47,  14  ff.)  is  adduced. 

Some  of  the  other  detached  verses  relating  to  this  divinity  (to  whom 
no  separate  hymn  is  dedicated)  are  the  following:  i.  62,  6;  i.  105,  9; 
i.  163,  2  f.;  i.  187,  1;  ii.  11,  19  t, 

Ahirbudhnya  is,  according  to  the  Lexicon  of  Messrs.  Bohtlingk  and 
Roth,  a.v.,  buJhnya,  "  the  Dragon  of  the  deep,  who  is  reckoned  among 
the  deities  of  tho  middle  sphere."  The  deep  in  which  he  resides  is  the 
atmospheric  ocean. 

Aja  Ekapad  is,  according  to  the  same  authorities,  ».«.,  "the  One- 
footed  Impeller,  probably  a  storm-god;  n<  ronlin^  to  tho  commentators 
he  represents  the  sun."  See  Roth's  Illustrations  of  tho  Nirukta,  p. 
163.  These  two  gods,  like  Trita,  are  merely  mentioned  in  detached 
verses. 


337 


SECTION    XX. 


THE  GODDESSES  MENTIONBD  IX  THE  VEDIC  HYMN  , 

Of  the  goddc=*aca  mentioned  in  tho  Rig-rcda  some  have  boon  noticed 
already  in  former  part*  of  this  volume,  viz.,  Prithivl  (pp.  21  ff.); 
Aditi,  the  mother  of  lln-  A-lily  i  ,  aai  representative  of  the  universe 
(pp.  35  ff.);  Dili,  her  counterpart  (p.  42  f.);  Nislnigrl,  the  mother 
(pp.  13  and  79),  and  Indrftrjl  (p.  82),  the  wife  of  Latin;  *"  Prisni, 
tho  mother  of  tho  Maruts  (p.  147) ;  Ushaa  (pp.  181  ff.) ;  »ud  Suryi,  the 
daughter  of  tho  Sun,  and  spouse  of  the  Aaviqs,  or  of  Soma  (pp.  335  ff). 
rurious  other  goddesses  arc  alao  celebrated  in  t!ic  hymns  of  tho  Big* 
v.ilu,  mob  as  Agnavi,  YurununT,  Hodoel,  RiiWu,  Siuivull,  Braddhi 
(i'luth),  Aramati,  and  the  Apsaruaes,  whoso  names,  bovrorer,  occur  but 
rarely;  and  Sarasrat',  with  her  cognates,  who  rectire  considerably 
greater  prominence. 

In  R.V.  i.  22,  11,  tho  goddesses,  wires  of  tho  heroes  (the  gods), 
with  uncut  wings,  arc  besought  to  protect  and  bless  tho  worshipper 
{ahhi  no  dielr  ato$d  mahuh  inrman.'i  urijwtnlh  \  oehhimapalrtltf  $ach- 
onldm).     Compare  Vij.  S.  xi.  61,  and  Sj'.up.  Br.  ri.  5,  4,  8). 

(1)   Sarasvati. 

Sarasvatl  is  a  goddoss  of  some,  though  not  of  Tory  great,  importance 
in  tho  Uig-vcda.  As  observed  by  Yuska  (NirukU,  ii.  23)  the  is 
celebrated  both  as  a  river  and  aa  a  deity Wl  (taira  Sarturtti  ity  ctatytt 
nadicad  dttatdcach  nftj  nigamtih  bhatanti).  As  an  instance  of  the  former 

•*•  Indriint  »sjrs,  in  R.V.  I.  80.  9:  "This  muchirrous  creature  ln»t*  aftoc  mo, 
us  if  I  tiud  no  liu»band  Of  »oiu.  and  rut  I  in  the  wife  of  Iodra.  ami  the  mather 
of  a  hero,*'  «tf .  (avirim  «rj  mm  <y<«  im-imr  tiki  m*my*t,  |  utilttm  *tmi  t>in$! 
J»dr*jMi»i).  Indragl.as  vchartMou  above, p.f»2,i»niMilion<dintu*Toitt.  Dr.ii.4,  2, 
7,  from  wkicb  it  appears  that  different  foddeoKs  had  own  oaropclitors  rot  the  bond 
of  Iodra,  and  time  lndrinl  baa  boea  chosen  bvcsuao  abe  Marpawcil  them  til  in  vnlup. 
luoua  attraction*.    In  the  aamu  w.irk.  ii.  8,  8,  ♦,  Vich  U  said  to  I*  th«  wife  of  India. 

""  Sw  also  SijraoJ  on  R.V  L  3,  12 :  Dtitxdia  If  Sarasrti  rifnUwad^tvmtu 
tuuTi-rupa  tha. 

S3 


m 


BABASVA]  i 


character,  he  refers  to  R.V.  vi.  €1,  2,  which  I  shall  qnote 
on.  She  was  no  doubt  primarily  a  river  deity,  as  her  name, 
wutvry,"  "■  d'.-arly  denotes,  and  in  this  capacity  she  is  celebrated  in  a 
few  separate  passages.  Allusion  is  made  in  the  hymns,  as  well  as  ia 
tho  Briihraanas  (Risftayo  eat  Sarawatydm  talram  fualn  |  ity/idi  |  Art, 
I!f.  ii.  19;  Hnug,  vol.  ii.  p.  112)  to  sacrifices  being  performed  on  tho 
banks  of  this  river  and  of  the  adjoining  Drishadvatl  ;"*  and  the  Saras- 
vali  in  particular  seems  to  have  been  associated  with  tho  reputation 
for  sanctity,  which,  according  to  the  well-known  passage  in  the  In- 
stitutes of  Manu  (ii.  17  f.,  quoted  in  the  2nd  vol.  of  this  work,  p. 
41C  f.),  was  ascribed  to  the  whole  region,  called  Brahmarartta. 
V«  uveeu  these  two  email  streams,  and  situated  imiw-diately  to  the 
westward  of  the  Jumna.  Tho  SurasvatI  thus  appears  to  have  bocn 
to  tho  early  Indians  what  the  Ganges  (which  is  only  twice  named 
in  the  Rig-vcdn)  became  to  their  descends  a  U.801  Already  in  RA 
10  (where,  however,  she  is  perhnps  regarded  us  the  poddese  of  sacrifice) 
•he  is  described  as  "the  purifier"  {jutraktl  nah  Sdrattati) ;  and  in 
K.V.  x.  17,  10  =  Vaj.  8an.  4,  2  ;  A.V.  vi.  51,  2  (after  Sarasvat!  ha* 
been  mentioned,  verses  7-9),  the  water*  are  thus  celebrated  :  Jp« 
cumrhi  mntarah  iundhayantv  ghriitna  no  ghritnpiah  punantu  \  riita* 
hi  riprttm  pravahanti  dttlr  ttd  id  ilbhyah  iuchir  A  pulah  tmi  |  "  Mi 
tho  "Waters,  the  mothers,  cleanse  us,  may  they  (the  waters)  who  puri 
with  butter,  purify  us  with  butter;  for  these  goddesses  bear  away 
defilement;  I  come  up  out  of  them  pure  and  cleansed."  When  once 
tho  river  had  acquired  u  divino  character,  it  was  quite  natural  that  she 
should  be  regarded  as  the  patroness  of  the  ceremonies  which 


I 


;  a   ■; 


*"*  Sarawatl  tarah  ity  noVAu-wStna  *trlt*  t«J-*»ft  (Nirokt*.  ix.  2d).    ITw 
niavsiTurtla-purans,  ii.  6,  n»  rt-fcrml  to  in  Frofuuar  Aufrccht'*  Cut.  p.  23,  col. 
u  Isnad  Bud  tin-  BamraB  ■ U  chsngwl  into  a  riitr  by  mi  unprtoitiun  of  tlis-Gnagfi. 
In  the  A.V.  vi.  100,  1,  thru;  SunuraL'a  ue  tpokeu  of,  but  no  explanation  ii  girra.  of 
their  difference. 

K»  Jt.Y.  iii-  '-!."■,  4  :  ;'  I  place  tW,  -Apt",  M  tl»«  abode  of  IU  (eotnpjur*  Ei.  »,  4), 
on  tho  most  excellent  spot  of  the  tuxth,  ou  the  moot  uuspicimia  of  day*.  Sbtac,  to  at 
to  enrich  M,  in  •  plu.e  of  liuiiiiin  resort,  on  the  bsalu  uf  iho  Dri»badratJ.  the  Apiii, 
Ibe  SarcwvuU'"  (mi  MS  dadlu  van  a  prUhivyah  itaytu  jxutt  i<*ii»alri  thmtm  |  J>p«A- 
m4e+tynm  manuiht  Apayuytim  Sanupalfim  reesrf  Afnt  rfi '•• 

W4  It  in  dear  from  the  pwgoa  quoted  in  the  2nd  toI.  ■  ■(  Out  Work,  p.  i li  S. 
(hut  llio  SaiMTotl  continued  iu  later  time*  ulao  to  be  regarded  ai  a  wcred  rii«r,  tot 
tliis  diameter  wus  soared  bj  other  Indian  streams,  if  not  by  tiirto  all. 


6ARASVATI. 


BM 


celebrated  on  the  margin  of  her  holy  waters,  and  that  her  direction 
and  blessing  should  bo  invoked  as  essential  to  their  proper  perform- 
ance and  success.  Tho  connection  into  which  «ho  was  thus  brought 
with  sacred  rites  may  have  led  to  tho  furthor  step  of  imagining  her  to 
havo  an  influence-  on  the  composition  of  the  hymns  which  formed  bo 
important  a  part  of  tho  proceedings,  and  of  identifying  her  with  Yiioh, 
tho  goddess  of  spoech.  At  least,  I  have  no  other  explanation  to  offer 
of  this  double  character  and  identification. 

Sarasvatt  is  frequently  invited  to  the  sacrifices  along  with  several 
other  goddesses,  lift,  Bbaratl,  Mahl,  Hotrf,  Varutrl,  Dhishan*  (i.  13,  9; 
i.  142,  9;  i.  188,  8;  iii.  4,  8;  v.  5,  8  ;  ix.  5,  8 ;  x.  110,  8),  who, 
however,  were  never,  like  her,  river  nymphs,  but  personifications  of 
some  department  of  religion*  worship,  or  sacred  science.  She  is  alio 
frequently  invoked  alonfi  with  other  deities  (ii.  80,  8 ;  iii.  54,  13 ; 
t.  42,  12;  rii.  35,  11;  viii.  38,  10;  ix.  81,  4;  x.  65,  1,  13; 
x.  111,5). 

In  many  of  tho  passages"*  where  Sarasvstl  is  celebrated,  her  original 
character  is,  a»  I  have  intimated,  distinctly  preserved.  Thus  in  two 
places  she  is  mentioned  along  with  rivurs,  or  fertilizing  waters :  vi. 
52,  6  (&tr<ur>al2  tinihulhih  pincamutui) ;  x.  30,  12  (  Gpo  rtratih  luka- 
yatka  hi  tatrai  hratum  cha  bkadram  bibhritfuimritam  eha  \  ruyai  cha 
itha  $vapatya*ya  patnlh  Sarattatl  fad  yrinale  rayo  dkul  \  "  Ye,  opulent 
waters,  command  riches ;  yc  possess  excellent  power  aud  immortality; 
ye  are  the  mistresses  of  wealth  and  progeny ;  may  Sarasvatl  bestow 
this  vitality  on  her  worshipper '') ;  nnd  in  x.  64,  9;  x.  75,  5  f.,  she  ia 
specified  along  with  the  other  well-known  streams  which  are  there 
named,  tho  Sarayu,  the  Sindhu,  the  Gangs,  the  Yamuna,  the  Sutudri, 
ate.  In  vii.  96,  2,  and  viii.  21,  18,  reference  is  made  to  the  kings  and 
people  living  along  her  banks  ( Chitrah  id  raja  rajakah  id  amycJu  yoke 

*•  Siyag.l  oadenUad*  i.  3, 12  [maXe  arnaS  taratmd pra  tiit!*y«li  krtuta  \  ikiye 
vuVaA  t>raj*ii),  of  tho  riror,  nnd  explain*  it  thus :  "  The  Swmirnd,  by  hit  act  {••( 
flowing),  display*  a  copious  flood."  Roih,  in  bis  Uluitrationa  of  the  N'iruku  (xi.  20), 
p.  153,  tranalatea,  "  A  mighty  «tr*nm  u  Sanuratl ;  with  her  lijclit  ihn  lightens,  illn- 
■aJaales  all  plan*  mind*."  He,  however,  regard*  tho  commencing  words  as  Cgwrn- 
tivc,  and  not  m  referring  to  tho  rirer.  Ban  fry  reader* :  "  Sanuratl,  by  h«r  light, 
oaaMS  tho  great  tea  to  bo  known ;  she  thine*  through  all  thought*."  U»  under- 
stand* tho  -  great  ata  "  aa  tho  oai*cr*c,  or  m  lift,  which  ho  aaya  ia  often  deeignaUd 
ia  eomauin  Saiukrit  also  by  tho  word  mjmt:  Th«  cooorptiona  of  Suwritl  aa  a 
river,  and  as  the  directrca*  of  ctrcmoniee,  amy  bo  blended  ia  the  passage. 


140 


8ABASVATT. 


of  aa 

icr  rf 
pUc 
otter 


Soruwatim  anu).  In  vi.  61,  10,  and  vii.  36,  6,  she  i»  spoken  of  aa 
having  seven  Bisters,  as  one  of  scrcn  rivers,  and  us  the  m 
streams  (tapiasxttu  \  tarasvati  tapMM  tiWA  undid).  In  another 
aho  is  said  to  pour  on  her  fertilising  waters,  to  surpass  all 
rivere,  and  to  flow  pure  from  the  mountains  to  the  sea,  rii.  95,  1  {pro 
luhofatil  (fhfli/aid  tture  eth&  Saratratt  iharunam  «ty*H  pith  |  praiAb*- 
dh&n&  ralhytca  y/lli  viirCih  apt)  mahintl  tinihur  anyuh  |  2.  EkA  aehtttt 
Saramatl  naitin&ih  iuehir  fM  giribhyah  u  iamwfrtit  |  rdyai  chetemtl 
hhitruniuijti  bhnrtr  y/irilam  payo  dudu/ie  nuhuthuya) ;  to  be  the  swiftest 
of  floods  (opcufim  apastamu),  \\.  61,  13;  and  in  vi.  61,  2  and  K,  to 
tear  away,  like  a  digger  of  the  roots  of  plant*,  the  hoses  of  the 
mountains  on  her  banki  with  ln.-r  impetuous  and  resounding  current 
{iyaih  ituhincbhir  bioa-khti  iv&rujal  sunu  girlnuiii  tacithtbhir  Armtbhih  | 
8.  } 'aaytih  ananlt  ahrwtai  tveahai  charithnur  araavah  |  amai  cturati 
rorveat).  In  ii.  41,  IG,  aho  is  culled  the  best  of  mothers,  of  rivers, 
and  of  goddesses  (ambitamt,  nadUantf,  tletUam*). 

In  vii.  96,  4-6,  a  river  god,  called  Sanuvut,  is  assigned  as  a  consort 
to  Soruavatl,  who  rolls  along  his  fertilizing  waters,  and  i*  inro- 
the  worshippers  who  are  seeking  for  wives  and  offspring,  as  well  aa  for 
plenty  and  protection  [janlyanlo  nu  agrarah  putrtyantah  tud&nacah 
Sortuvantaih  havdmahe  |  fi.  Ye  tt  Sarawak  Urmayah  madJmmanto  y, 
taichutah  \  iebhir  no  avitd  bhara  |  6.  Plpm'imaaih  Sarmalah  ttatiam 

yti  r;--:,tiiurai!,i/t   \   bhaishiniuhi  jirajum   ithnni',. 

In  v.  43,  11,  Surasvatl  i*  culled  upon  to  descend  from  the  aky,  from 
the  great  mountain,*"  to  the  sacrifice  (a  no  dm  brihaiah  part at ud  il 
$araittitl  yajulil  gantu  yajnam) ;  aud  in  vL  49,  7,  where  aho  is  called 
the  daughter  of  the  lightning  (pue'traci  kanyu)""  and  the  wife  of  a 
hero  [elra-patnl),"*  sho  is  supplicated  to  combine  with  the  spouse*  of 
the  gods  to  afford  secure  protection  to  the  worshipper  {gndbJtir  tekki- 
dram  iara^am  aajoihah  durtidharihaUt  grinaU  iarma  yatiuat).  In  the*o 
two  passages  the  pact  may  perhaps  be  considered  as  assigning  a  calf 
tial  origin  to  the  river  as  the  offspring  of  thunder  and  rain. 


*  I 
An- 
us* 


•**  Suynna  snyx  that  Mfiilhysmikl  VOch,  or  the  goddoai  Vaeh,  who  resides  is  Die 
■agfaa  mil  nncdiuio  batwson  hsaven  sad  earth,  u  her*  intended. 

•*»  8ce  Roth,  «.«'.,  anil  compare  J.  W,  13.  Professor  Malli.  in  KuUn  and 
8chl«ich«r's  Beitfige,  etc,  iii.  1*8,  uaaixni  lo  pBttravI  the  scdm  of  "Uhmol-i . 

*°*  Siirans  lap  her  limbiunl  is  PrsjCpatL     Would  it  not  rather  be  Sarastst  r 


SARASVATT. 


341 


la  vi.  Gl,  11  f.,  she  is  said  to  fill  tho  terrestrial  regions  and  the  air 
(ipoprutto  purthiruni  uru  rajo  antariKtham),  and  to  occupy  three  abode* 
(trUadtththu),  and  to  have  seven  parts  or  be  sevenfold  {tapla-dhdtu). 

When  regarded  as  a  river  nymph,  Sarasrntl  is  further  described  as 
on  iron  barrier  or  fortress,  and  a  support,  vii.  95,  1  (quoted  above),  as 
bestowing  wealth,  fatnew,  and  fertility,  vii.  95,  2,  and  is  besought  to 
listen  to  the  prayer  of  her  worshippers  at  their  sacrifices,  ibid.  4  {at* 
jjrd  mA  Sarawak  jushdnd  upairavat  tubhagd  yajtu  attnitt),  to  receive 
praises,  to  shelter  and  protect  them  like  a  tree,  ibid.  5  {prati 
itamaih  Sarasuati  Jutluura  |  (ana  iarvian  priyatome  dudhAnilh  upa  iiht- 
yama  hrttnam  na  rrilxham),  and  to  grant  reputation  to  the  unrenowned, 
ii.  41,  16  (apraiiwtah  net  mnati  praiantim  iwiba  nat  kfidhi).  In  vi.  61, 
1  I.  the  riehi  prays  that  ho  may  m>t  be  removed  from  her  to  regions 
which  ore  strango  (rod  hat  hhetr&ni  oranani  ganme). 

In  vi.  61,  1,  ahe  ia  represented  as  having  given  to  Yadhryasva  a  son, 
DivodiM,  a  canceller  of  hiB  debts  {if am  adadtld  r/ibhautm  rimathyuUm 
Dicod&um  VtidfuyaivHya  daiuthe). 

It  is  difficult  to  «ay  whether  in  any  of  the  pa**age»  in  which  Saras- 
:■■.  invoked,  even  in  those  where  she  appears  as  the  patroness  of 
holy  rites,  her  character  ns  a  river  goddess  is  entirely  left  out  of  sight. 
In  K.  V.  x.  17,  8,  she  is  described  as  coming  to  the  place  of  sacrifice  in 
the  same  chariot  with  the  oblations  and  the  forefathers  {Saranati  jr»l 
tarathaGi  yay&tha  nadhulhir  deri  pitj^bhir  madantl),  and  as  an  object 
of  adoration ;  but,  as  in  a  following  verso  (the  10th),  already  quoted, 
the  Waters  also  are  inToM,  it  would  seem  that  the  goddess  was  there 
regarded  aa  connected  with  the.  river.  She  is  elsewhere  represented  as 
unctuous  with  butter,  and  as  stimulating,  directing,  and  prospering  the 
devotions  of  tho  worshippers,  L  3,  10,  11;  ii.  3,  8 ;  vi.  61,  4  {cfwda- 
yanti  t&itritftHuM  cktUnti  tumattnam  yajnnfit  d<\Hft*  Sarwratl  |  Sarwittl 

vidfuiyann  dhiyaik  nah  \  j»r»  no  dtt\  Saratrall dhiniim  acitrl 

train).  She  affords  secure  prutec-tiMi  conquers  enemies  (ii.  SO,  8; 
vi.  19,  7),  and  destroys  tho  revilers  of  the  gods  (vi.  61,  8).  Sho 
is  dreadful,  movea  aluug  a  golden  path,"*  and  is  a  destroyer  of  Vritra, 

*■*  ffi'r#wywr««'«>'.     8«r»ns  explain*  fsHMM  u  chariot,  and  the  oompomd  aa 

■i-uiiuj;  "luring  ■  gulden  chariot,"     The  same  word  occur*  again,  appliad  to  a 

u  «tii.  'it.  18,  when  8ajraoa  mikes  it  tnwm  ••  having  a  golden  path,"  i>. 

Irtnk*.    The  word*  r*itrn.v*rtim,i,  •'  who**  path  it  dreadful,"  and  fkfUa. 


MS 


SARASYATI. 


tL  61,  7  (ghord  hiranyatartanih  \  tritraghni).  The  worshipper  seeks  to 
euck  prosperity  and  riches  of  all  description  from  her  prolific  breast*,*'* 
i.  89,  3  j  i.  1 64,  49  (y<«  Ce  itmah  iaiayo  yo  nayobhar  ytna  vihil  putAftri 
i)i  \  yo  raliiadhiih  intra  id  yah  tudatrah  Saranali  tarn  iha  dhdlax* 
kak) ;  viii.  21,  17 ;  x.  17,  8,  9 ;  ix.  67,  32 ;  she  is  the  roocptaclo  of  all 
the  powers  of  life,  and  bestows  offspring,  ii.  41,  17  (to  triita  Saranati 
iritd  dyilihuhi  devyum  \  .  .  .  .  prajuth  devi  dididdhi  nai).  In  x.  184,  3, 
■he  is  associated  with  the  deities  who  assist  procreation  (oarbham  dfahi 
Sartuvaii).  In  ii.  1,  11,  Agui  is  identified  with  her,  and  several  other 
goddcMce. 

In  R.V.  x.  131,  5  (=Vfij.  S.  x.  34)  where  the  Ajriiw  are  said  to 
havo  defended  Indra,  Sarasvatl  also  is  declared  to  have  waited  upon 
him.  Ami  in  Vnj.  S.  xix.  12,  it  is  said,  "The  gods  celebrated  a  heal- 
ing sacrifice;  tho  Airing  physicians,  and  Sarasvatl  too  a  physician, 
through  speech,  communicated  vigour  to  Indra "  (see  above,  p.  94, 
note).  The  AAvins  and  Sarasvatl  uro  nlso  connected  with  each  other 
inVoj.  8.  xix.  12,  15,  18,  34,  80-33,  88-90,  93-94;  xx.  66-69, 
73-76,  90.  In  xix.  94,  it  ia  said  that  "  Sarasvatl.  wife  of  tho  Aivina, 
holds  a  well-formed  embryo  in  her  womb.  Yarurja,  king  in  the  waters, 
produced  Indra  for  glory,  by  tho  aqueous  fluid,  as  if  by  a  soma  verse,'* 
xix.  94  (Sarotvatl  yonyuiii  garbkam  antar  J  point  tutrit.im 

bibharti    |   optim   rtuma   Faruna   na   t&mnii    Indram   iriyai  janayann 
cjnu  raja). 

It  does  not  appear  that  in  tho  R.V.  Sarasvatl  is  identified  with 
Vfich.  For  some  passages  of  that  collection,  in  which  tho  latter 
goddess  is  celebrated,  I  refer  to  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  Work,  pp.  253  ff., 
and  to  a  later  section  of  this  volume. 

In  the  later  mythology,  as  ia  well  known,  Sarasvatl  was  identified 
with  Viich,  and  became  under  different  names  tho  spouse  of  Brahma, 
and  the  goddess  of  wisdom  and  eloquence,  and  is  invoked  as  a  Mt 
In  the  Mahabhurata  she  is  called  the  mother  of  the  Vedas  (Snntiparva, 
vorso  12920),  and  tho  same  is  said  of  Vnch  in  tho  TaitL  Br.  ii.  8, 

rartlani,  "whoso  path  is  unctuous,"  are  also  applied  to  different  dritkain  tlwltig* 
rods.  Kruhna-varttani,  "  be  whose  path  i»  marked  by  blackness."  is  an  cpith 
Agoi.  in  riiL  23, 19,  und  the  kon  of  that  tenn  is  lizcd  bj  the  use  of  tbe  «jnoarm 
kr<ikn*ilhr*n.  Tbn  aubstantif o  ramam  occurs  in  vii  IS,  16;  rf  v>*a-4nrttm;  i. 81, ft, 
»"  Compare  All  Br.  it.  I,  at  the  end,  where  her  two  breasts  are  said  to  be  truth 
nnd  falsehood. 


APAS.  THE  TVATEBS.  AND  THE  R1YERS. 


343 


8,  5,m  where  (and  in  the  preceding  par.  4.)  she  is  also  said  to  bo  the 
wife  of  Indra,  to  contain  within  herself  all  worlds,  and  to  have  been 
sought  after  by  the  rishis  who  composed  tlio  V 
wumtra-krilah),  as  well  as  bj  the  gods,  through  auAterity. 

In  the  Sftntiparva,  verso  8811,  it  is  related  that  when  the  Brah- 
mnrn>iin  were  perforating  austerities,  prior  to  the  creation  of  tho  uni- 
vuse,  "a  voice  derived  from  Cmhmu  entered  into  tho  ears  of  them  all ; 
the  celestial  Sonuvatl  was  then  produced  from  tho  heavens."  •a 

(2)  Apcw,  tht  Water;  anil  the  Rivtn. 

A  verse  (z.  17, 10)  has  been  already  cited,  in  p.  338,  in  which  the  puri- 
fying vtrtuo  of  the  Waters  is  extolled ;  and  there  is  another  passage, 
i.  23,  22  (=  x.  9,  8),  in  which  the  power  of  cleansing  the  worsli:]  |.i  r 
from  the  sins  of  violence,  cursing,  and  falsehood  in  ascribed  to  tin  ■ 
{idani  ilpah  pra  zahata  yal  kincha  duritam  magi  |  yad  vd  aham  abhidn- 
druha  t/ad  nl  iept  utdnritam).  Thoy  are  said,  in  two  passages,  already 
cited  in  p.  205,  to  have  given  birth  to  Agni ;  a  few  separate 
hymns,  vii.  47;  vii.  49;  x.  9,  are  devoted  to  their  honour;  u\\A  in 
numerous  detached  vers**  they  arc  invoked  along  with  other 
I  eite  n  hymn  in  which  tho  Sindhu  (Indus)  and  other  rivers  aro 
celebrated : — 

It.  V.  x.  75,  1 :  Pra  w  rah  dpo  mahimunam  uttamam  kurur  tochtiti 
mim$  vitatvatah  I  pra  tapta  tapta  trtdhil  hi  clutkrumuh  pra  tritcartgam 
ati  Sindhur  oj'atri  |  2.  Pra  It  'radad  Paruno  yAtac*  pat  hah.  Siudhe  yad 
tu/dit  aihi  adraeas  team  |  bhumyah,  adhi  pravata  yati  ulnttnH  yad  eihdm 
ayraSi  jagat&m  irajyati  |  3.  bid  stano  yatatr  ohurnyd  upart  aunntam 
huhmarn  *d  iyarti  bhdnund  |  abhrdd  iVa  prattanayanti  vfithtayah 
Sindhur  yad  eli  vfithabho  na  rorutat  |  4.  Abhi  toi  Sindho  iisum  in  na 


111  In  the  Satin.  Br.  vii.  6,  2,  62,  it  U  Mid,  •'Mind  u  tho  own.  From  mind, 
lh«  oeean,  th«  goda,  with  Vfich  for  a  ehnrrl.  Haft  oat  the  triple  trion<«  («.«.  tho  thrw 
Veda*).     Wherefore  ttiU  vciae  (UoVt)  hat  paj"  (»«  the  3rd  fsj,  of  t l.i* 

Worjk,  p.  9,  He  la  the  BUUuma-p.  of  tli<  M.  lib.  Ten*  3019,  Acbrate  (Kriahaa) 
U  (aid  to  have  created  SaruvaU  and  ilic  Teds*  from  his  mind.  In  the  Vana-p.  rene 
13432,  the  Oiritrl  U  railed  the  njutiiiT  of  the  Vcdas. 

>n  Compare  the  t«tw  quoted  by  S'aakaro  on  the  Brahma  lOtraa  (tee  the  3rd  ml. 
of  thU  We*k,  pp.  16  and  10t),  from  i  Smpli  ••  In  the  beginning  a  c*lwli»l  *oie«, 
formed  of  the  Yedaa,  eternal,  without  liegianing  or  end,  waa  uttered  by  SrayamhUi), 
from  which  all  ictintic*  bare  proccidcd." 


344 


APAS,  THE  WATERS.  AXD  THE  BIVEBA 


miitarah  viiruh  arthanti  payattta  dhtnarah  |  r&jtta  yudhiu  nayati  tttm 
it  tiehau  yad  atum  (tyrant  prava'um  itwhhati  |  5  (=Nir.  ix.  26). 
Imam  mt  Oangt  Tammt  Sarntrati  fruluJri  $tema>7t  tacknta  Paruihni  a  | 
Asiknyil  Mariidvridhs  VitattayO  Arjtklye  irinuhi  A  SutAom<ty4  |  6. 
tfneyd  prathamaih  yatavt  *ajnh  Susartru  Ratayil  8  \  trait 

•SindAo  Kubhayu  Gomat'im  Ii'ncmiim  Mthatntil  urathati*  yubhir  lyau  | 
7.  jfijfti  swl  ruiati  mahitrfi  pari  jrayOikti  bharaU  njiimti  |  adabdii 
Sindhur  apasum  apattama  aha  na  tJtitrd  taputhl  tea  darlata  |  8. 
Kvairit  Sinilhih  tuiiitha  tutduih  hiranyayi  wifita  rojinlrati  |  urniltnl\ 
yuiatih  tllamcUati  ulddhi  taste  tuhhagd  madhuijidham  |  9  (=Nir.  rii. 
7).  Sv&kam  ralhaiii  yuyuje  Sindhur  eStinam  tena  rtij'aih  Mituhai  asminn 
tljau  |  mahun  fit  atya  nuthima  panatyate  adabdhatym  tvayaiato  virapiinak  | 

"  1.  Waters,  let  the  poet  declare  your  trunsccndant  greatness  in  the 
nbodc  of  tlio  worshipper.  Each  set  of  seven  [streams]  has  followed  * 
threefold  course.  Tho  Sindhu  jurpussca  the  other  river*  in  impetuosity. 
•2.  Vornna  hollowed  out  tho  channels  of  thy  course,  o  Sindhu,  when 
thou  didst  rush  to  thy  contests.  Tliou  tlowost  from  [the  heights  of] 
i  th  over  a  downward  slope,  when  thou  U-ndcct  the  ran  of  these 
Glaums.  3.  A  sound  struggle*  onwnrd  in  tho  »ky  above  the  earth. 
[The  current]  exerts  on  infinite  fame  with  a  fla*h.  Showers  thunder 
as  if  [falling]  from  a  cloud  ;  when  the  Sindhu  roll*  on,  it  roars  litre  * 
bull.  4.  To  thee,  o  Sindhu,  the  [other  streams]  rush,  as  lowing 
mother-cows  with  their  mill;  to  their  calves.  Like  a  warrior  king 
[in  tho  centre  of  hia  army]  thou  Icadest  the  two  wings  of  thy  host 
when  thou  strugglest  forward  to  the  van  or  these  torrents.  5.  Receive 
favourably  this  my  hymn,  o  Oaugu,  Yamuna,  Sarasvatl,  Sutudri,  Para* 
hear,  o  MaruJvridho,  with  tho  Asiknl,  and  Vitasta,  and  thou, 
Arjikiya  with  tho  Sushoma.  6.  Unite  first  in  thy  course  with  the 
Trishtama,  the  Susartu,  the  Ra&i,  and  the  StoUj  thou  [meetost]  the 
UomatT,  and  the  Krumu  with  the  Kubhn,  nnd  the  Mehstnu,  and  with 
them  arc  borne  onword  as  on  the  same  car.  7.  Flashing,  sparkling, 
gleaming,  in  her  majesty,  tho  unconquerable,  the  most  abundant  of 
streams,  beautiful  as  a  handsome  spotted  mare,  the  Sindbu  rolls  her 
waters  over  the  lewis.  8.  Mistress  of  a  chariot,  with  noble  bones, 
riilily  dressed,  golden,  adorned,  yieldiug  nutriment,  abounding  in 
wool,   youthful,   rich    in   plants,*"  gracious,  she   traverses   [a  land] 

»"  On  the  word  iUnmirmtl  and  ihe  following;  word*  of  the  lin«  is  wWcn  it  octrois, 


Tin:  APSARASES 


815 


yielding  sweetness  [?].  9.  Tho  Sindhu  has  yoked  her  pleasant  chariot 
awn  by  home.  By  it  may  she  grant  us  vigour  in  this  struggle: 
for  greatly  celebrated  i»  the  glory  of  that  unconqucred,  illustrious 
and  much-lauded  [chariot]. 

In  one  place,  vi.  50,  7,  the  Waters  are  said  to  bo  remedial  and  the 
tiers  of  all  things  fixed  and  moving  (i/uyairi  hi  tlha  bhuhajo  matfi- 
visvaiyti  UhtUur  jiiyalnjni) iV/iA). 

(.1)  Th»  Aptarau*. 

These  goddesses  have  been  already  mentioned  in  the  section  on 
Tamil,  p.  309,  nnd  will  be  further  adverted  to  below. 

la  the  passage  of  tho  lt.V.  vii.  33,  10  ft*.,  %<Wtod  in  the  1st  rol.  of 
this  work,  p.  320,  tho  Itishi  Vasishtha  is  said  to  have  sprung  from  an 
Apaaras,  UrvaftT.  In  the  dictionary  of  Messrs.  Biihtlingk  and  Roth 
the  Apsnraaca  are  described  as  female  beings  of  a  ghost-like  description, 
whose  abode  is  in  tho  atmosphere.  They  are  the  wives  of  the  dnd- 
harvas,  have  tho  power  of  changing  their  forms,  love  playing  at  dice, 
and  impart  good  luck.  Acoording  to  the  A.V.  the  Apearasea  are  feared 
like  other  ghostly  beings,  and  enchantments  are  employed  against 
them  ;  especially  because  they  causo  madness. 

Professor  Goldstiickcr,  iv.  says:  "Originally  these  divinities  seem 
to  hnve  been  personifications  of  the  vapours  which  are  attracted  by  tho 
sun,  and  form  into  mist  or  clouds."     (Sec  full  details  in  his  article.) 

^4)  .-tytt/ryl,  VarnnSni,  tie. 

Excepting  rrilhivl,  Aditi,  und  Ushus,  most  of  the  other  goddesses 
meiitiniud  io  *  1 1. -  Kijj-vcda  arc,  as  I  havo  already  intimated,  p.  337,  of 

Ittle  importance.     AgnivT:  VarnnanT,  Aavinl,  and  R 
wires  of  Agni,  Varuua,  the  Aivius,  and  Kudra  respectively  (Nirukta, 
ix.  33  f. ;  xi.  50 ;  xii.  46),  are  only  ollude<l  to  in  a  few  passages,  lt.V. 
i.  22, 12;  ii.  32,  8;  v.  46,  8;  vi.  50,  5;  vi.  66,  C;   vii.  31,  22.     Ho 
distinct  functions  are  assigned  to  them,  and  they  do  not  occupy  pc*i- 

I  subjoin  S*y»oa"»  note,  for  a  copy  of  which  I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Max  Muller: 
X.  7A,  8  :  liltmacmti  niriigi  ynywAWApi  nu/uiiutmpa  UuutAfmt*  {UttAymntt  I)  m 
tilmmHi  niyaJftt*  kriMtmtaik  |  tadriftthrtkyuprtit  utiyi  r\a  nt&lfi  «»a4W 
aMJAurpVAam   mutlAuwwrJAakum    nirympfyHi   mdkinuU  iukkajtytti  M>yi«    v., 

pirjmi/jymfmi  A*Ai«i  Mull, 

,u  Acoordinir  to  8Sr»n«  (on  i.   107,  *)  Rodsd  is  m*rut-p*tifi  nVytJ  to,  "The 

•wifi-Mi'ilir  Karats,  "i  Ugh*  ■■■ 


316 


3-HADDIU. 


tions  at  oil  corresponding  to  the  rank  of  their  husbands,  with  wham 
in  fact  they  are  never  associated.  The  insignificance  of  these  goddam 
forms  ft  striking  contrast  to  the  prominent  place  assumed  by  the  spouse* 
of  Siva  and  Vishnu,  especially  tho  former,  in  tho  later  mj 
Nirriti  is  the  goddoss  of  destruction. 

(5)  Are*y5ni. 

Aranyunl  (Nir.  ix.  29,  30)  is  the  goddess  of  forest  solitude. 
celebrated  in  11.  V.  x.  146,  which  I   shall  translate  in  a 
section. 

(6)  Sakd,  Sinlcali,  and  Gun?i, 

Rakfi,  Rinlvi'ill,  and  (Jungu  (whom  Sityana,  on  ii.  32,  8,  identifies 
with  Kuhu),  arc  three  other  goddesses  mentioned  in  the  R.V.  (the  first 
in  ii.  32,  4,  6,  8;  v.  42,  12;  tho  second  in  ii.  32,  fi  ff. ;  x.  184,  2; 
and  tho  third  in  ii.  32,  8).  Saynna  (on  ii.  89,  4)  MJl  that  Buka  u 
tho  full  moon."9  She  is,  however,  closely  connected  with  parturition, 
as  she  is  linked  to  "  tow  the  work  "  (appiucntly  the  formation  of  tho 
embryo)  "with  an  unfailing  needle,  and  to  bestow  •  son  with  abundant 
Wealth,"  ii.  :\2,  1  (i!ry«/r  tip.r  uchhidyamdnayA  dad'Mu   v'<mm 

yi»w  ukthijam).  Siiiivall  and  Kuhu  art  (as  wo  ore  told  by  Yoaka, 
Kir.  xi.  3 1 )  wives  of  the  gods  according  to  the  mythologists  (*airuit<ih ;, 
and  tho  two  nights  of  the  new  moon  (amrletUi/fi)  according  to  the  ritu- 
alist* (j/AjnikHh),  Sin;  -  tho  earlier,  and  Kuhu  the  later.  SialvAlI 
is,  however,  also  connected  with  parturition,  being  called  p^ithuihfhuka, 
"tho  broad-loined  (or  " bushy-haired  "),  kahtuilvari,  "the  prolific;" 
subdhu,  "  the  handsome-  armed  ;"  tvamjuri,  "the  handsome- lingered, 
being  supplicated  for  progeny,  ii.  32,  6,  7  (praj'dm  devi  dididdhi  ««1), 
and  aaked  to  bestow  pregnancy,  x.  184,  2  (garb/unit  dhehi  Sinit&h); 
A.V.  v.  25,  3;  vi.  11,  3.  Yaskn  qnolca  from  tho  Taitt  Br.  iii.  3,  11,  a 
verse  regarding  Kuhu,  whose  name  does  not  occur  in  tho  Kig-rcda. 
8oe  also  the  account  of  Auuuiati  in  Bohtliugk  and  Botli's  Lexicon,  «.r, 


(7)  S'raddhd. 

Personifications  of  abstract  ideas  are  not  uncommon  in  the  Big-veda, 
one  hymn  of  which  (x.  151)  is  addressed  to  .Sruddhii,  or  religious  faith. 
By  her,  it  is  said,  verso  1  (=Nir.  ix.  31),  "tho  (sacrificial)  fixe  ia 


»"  On  th«*e  gtMldonesaoo  Weber' i  lad.  Stud.  t.  228  ff.  and  257. 


"'""» 


347 


kindled,  and  by  her  tic  oblation  is  offered  up"  {frudJJuiyil  'gnih  tami- 
dhyslt  iraddhaya  ASyaU  AatiA).  She  U  lukod  to  prosper  tho  liberal 
worshippers  of  tho  gods  (verses  2,  3),  and  to  impart  faith ;  and  is  said 
to  be  an  object  of  adoration  in  the  morning,  at  noon,  and  nt  sunset 
(Terse  5).  In  the  Vaj.  Sanhita,  xix.  SO,  it  is  said  that  faith  {traddAd) 
is  obtained  by  gifts,  and  truth  by  faith  (dakthinii  iraddham  fiptuti 
braddhoya  tat  yam  apyate).  In  xix.  77  of  tho  samo  work  it  is  declared 
that  "  Prnjiipati,  beholding,  made  a  distinction  between  the  forms  of 
truth  and  falsehood,  connecting  disbelief  with  the  latter,  and  faith  or 
belief  with  the  former"  (dfuAfvd  rSpa  vyikarot  tatyilnfite  PrajiipatiA  \ 
draddAdm  nnrite  'JadA&t  baddA&m  tatyt  Praf'dpaliA).  This  declara- 
tion, that  truth  is  the  only  proper  object  of  faith,  has  a  far  deeper 
signification  than  this  ancient  writer  could  possibly  have  assigned  to 
it,  tu.,  that  it  is  tho  ultimate  truth,  and  not  the  so-called  orthodoxy 
of  any  proposition,  which  can  alone  entitle  it  to  reception. 

Sraddhfi  is  also  celebrated  in  the  Tuitt.  Br.,  ii.  8,  8,  6  f,  where  the 
above  hymn  of  tho  Rig-veda  is  repeated ;  and  she  is  there  further  said 
to  dwell  among  the  gods,  to  be  the  universe  (iraddAd  deriin  aihira*t* 
iraddhn  viham  idmnjivint),  and  tho  mother  of  Kama.  (See  the  next 
Section).  In  tho  same  Tuitt.  Br.  iii.  12,  3,  1,  we  are  told  that  through 
Sraddhl  a  god  obtains  his  divine  character,  that  the  divine  Sraddtiii  is 
the  support  of  the  world,  that  she  has  Kama  (or  the  fulfilment  of 
desire)  for  her  calf,  and  yields  immortality  as  her  milk ;  that  she  is 
the  firstborq  of  the  religious  ceremonial,  and  tho  sustainer  of  the 
whole  world ;  and  she,  who  is  tho  supremo  mistress  of  the  world, 
U  besought  to  bestow  immortality  on  her  worshippers  {fradJAayi  dtt* 
dit*tt<m  ainnit  |  Vraddha  prcUthfhr,  Ukdtya  rfert  |  .  .  .  .  Kamaralti 
tmn'UiM  duAUnd  \  S"raddAi  dtPi  prathamajii  fittuya  |  WsVflqM  bhartrl 
jayatak  pratuAfAd  |  W*  Sr*ddM*  isritiA  yajAmah$  |  ad  m  lokam 
tmritafc  dadfoltu  MdnA  Aet\  b A ur ancuy OdAi ipal ill).  In  the  Sa  tap.  Br., 
iii.  7,  3,  11,  she  is  called  the  daughter  of  Surya;*"  an  appellation 
which  is  repeated  in  the  1L  Bh.  8aatiparva,  verse  9449,"'  where  she 

sm  See  what  b  said  of  the  daughter  of  Sorra  shore,  in  connection  wiui  fli*  Aftins. 

•"  Ta  this  passage  •  great  deal  is  said  in  praiM  of  S"reddb,i.  The  god*,  it  appear*. 
h*d  deeided  thett  the  offerings  of  a  aiggardly  ttudcat  of  the  Teds  end  •  literal  ■«unr 
woe  of*  equal  rale*.  Bat  Prejapeu"  dvtcroiiactl  that  thty  war*  wroas;  (•«•  the  mju* 
sentiment,  in  acarlr  tho  same  voids,  is  Maun.  i».  224  a".),  sad  that  the  liberal  tan'i 
utildiiuu,  Icing  purified  by  his  faith,  was  to  he  accepted,  whilrt  the  othor  nian'i,  briar 


348 


LAKSUMi  Ah'D  SHI. 


is  styled  the  daughter  of  Vivasrat  (STraddha  Vsivasvatl),  u  well  as  of 
Surra  and  Savitri  (Sfiryasya  duhitii  and  SfivitrT).  (See  above,  p.  264  f., 
tin-  -lory  of  Soma  loving  S'raddhii.  Sec  also  the  definition  given 
Aramati  in  Bohtliugk  and  Roth's  Lexicon,  t.v.) 

(8)  Lahhml  and  Sri. 

Lakshxni  it  not  fonnd  in  the  Big-veda,  in  the  sens*  which  tho 
boars  in  the  later  mythology,  of  a  goddess  personifying  good  fortune, 
though  tho  word  itself  occurs  in  x.  71,  2,*'*  in  a  kindred  signification. 
In  tin."  A. V.,  however,  we  hare  the  following  hymn,  which  speaks  of 
a  plurality  of  Lakshmls,  some  good  and  some  bad:  vii.  116,  1 :  Prm 
pit: tluh  pApi  Zaktkni  vniyrtnh  priimutah  pata  |  ayatmayma  ankma 
dtithate  fed  tnjumati  |  2.  Ya  mn  Lahhm)h  paiaynlur  ajuihfa  abhidu- 
tlanda  vandane-va  vrinhiham  \  anyalnismat  Sacitai  turn  ito  dhuh  Air  amy*. 
hanto  nam  nv  rariinah  |  3.  Ekaiatafn  Isikahmyo  mttrtyoty*  tdiaft  tuned 
jetHiuho  'dhi  j&lAh  |  t&iiim  pupinfifhuh  hit  itah  pra  hi*irui&  iiv&h  euma- 
j&tartdo  iii  yathha  |  4.  Elah  eta  rydJtaram  khiU  gah  niihlhituh 
tea  |  ramantim  pti>»jAh  Lalthmlr  yah  pApii  MA  tmina iam  |  "  Fly  away 
honce,  o  unlucky  (or  miserable)  Lakshml,  perish  hence,  fly  away  from 
thence  :  with  an  iron  hook  we  fasten  thee  to  our  enemy.  2.  Savitri, 
do  thou  who  art  goldm-handed,  bestowing  on  us  wealth,  send  away 
from  us  to  some  other  quarter  the  flying  and  hateful  Lakshml,  who 
mounts  upon  mo  us  a  creeper""  upon  n  tree.  3.  A  hundred  Lak&hntis 
are  born  together  with  the  body  of  a  mortal  at  hi*  birth.    'Of  these  WB 

I  in  bis  unbolicf,  was  to  !••-  n  \  it  ii  mldi-d,  u  the  groatest  af 

sins,  bat  faith  takes  sway  sin  (4M0  nitam  *mt»yant4  —4rUam  y*/Ha.t*mmni  | 
yuf*  hninri/atya  lW.i»y.i#y«  eh*  rirdktuluh  \  tnimnmiilrvikMytm  tfrraA 
mmant  mnmom  aktlpaytin  |  Prajnpatii  tun  nv&cha  "sitAamam  kriltm"  itg  ml*  | 
inuMhS'puUih  tndnnytiyti  Kalam  atmddhayttarat  \  ....  uiraddliA  parmmmm  pip*m 
draJ/tka  papa pra mac hani).  A  similar  sentiment  is  expressed  in  tb*  Vana-parta. 
l:u«l  II.-  -'In.  ■  .l1.u!.i.r.'!ijnyt  ncitlu  i  thi  u.  rM  n<ir  rlic  Tii'XMior  soy  gratueBtion. 
i  •  jii£P(-»  who  poaseas  true  knowledge  bare  wiiil  that  faith  is  a  oyn  of  Baal 

'  i  m Abandoning   fnulU*«  (lit.  dry)  argumiiiilutiuu*  .uilirrr  t>i  Cu*  »'rutj 

■ad  tin  .Mini;:  "  [:&ijam  loko  Vi  «a  para  nn  lukkaiu  tumiayHimanak  |  ueAur  Jmamm 
iriddltuh  pr\t!ytiy  moktha'l*Mtrn*vx    \    ituhkti-larkam  fmriiyvjpa  air 
n  mnfitim). 
ms  In  the  words  6W/6  ti/wm  Miknl  nikitS  mlki  iStki,  "an  aaspietoaa  fottt 
it  att  ■  ir  wotd»." 

•»  I'umimn*.    ThU  word  does  net  occur  in  Wilson'*  Dictionary,  bat  I  Bad 
t  Wa  in  tho  sense  of  s  creeping  plant. 


LAKSIIUI  AND  S'BI. 


310 


chase  away  hence  the  most  unlucky.  Do  thou,  Jiitavcdas,  retain  for 
as  those  which  are  fortunate.  4.  Thus  I  divide  them  like  cows 
standing  upon  barren  ground.  May  those  Lakshmls  which  are  auspi- 
cious rest  here.  Thoao  which  are  unlucky  I  destroy."  (The  ox- 
preseion  punyd  LakthmX  occurs  also  in  A.V.  xii.  S,  6.) 

In  the  VVij.  8.  xxxL  22  (Srli  cha  U  Lakthmli  cha ipalnyau),  Sri  and 
Lakshml  are  said  to  bo  the  two  wives  of  Aditya,  according  to  the  com- 
nentator's  explanation.  In  the  Sutap.  Ilr.  xi.  4,  3,  1,  Sri  is  described 
u  issuing  forth  from  Prajftpati  when  ho  was  performing  (| 
austerity,  with  u  view  to  the  creation  of  living  beings.  Beholding  her 
then  standing  resplendent  and  trembling, m  tho  gods  wcro  covetous  of 
her,  and  proposed  to  Prnjupati  that  they  should  bo  allowed  to  kill  her, 
and  appropriate  her  gift*.  Ho  replied  that  she  was  a  female,  and  that 
males  did  not  generally  kill  females.  They  should  therefore  take  from 
her  bar  gifts  without  depriving  her  of  life.  In  consequence,  Agni 
took  from  her  food;  Soma,  kingly  authority;  Vnruuu,  imparial 
authority;  Ultra,  martial  energy ;  Indra,  force;  Brihaspati,  priestly 
glory;  Savitri, dominion;  PQshun, splendour ;  SarasvatI,  nourishment; 
and  Tvashtri,  forms.  Sri  then  complained  to  Prnjftnati  th:r 
taken  all  these  things  from  her.  He  told  her  to  demand  them  back 
from  them  by  sacrifico  (Prajdpalir  cai  prajdh  trijumdm  'iapyala  \ 
(dirndl  ir&ut'U  ttpdnit  Sr'tr  udakr&mat  \  id  atyjMM&fld  Ihrrijamt/td 
Uiiyantl  alithfhat  |  turn  dlpgamdndm  bhrdjumdnOlt  UVlytwtlm  dcrd\ 
rfihyadhyayan  |  2.  Tt  Pmjtipatim  abruean  "  hattdma  imdm  a  idan 
atyiih  daddmakai"  Hi  \  w  ha  urdcha  "  ilrl  vai  tihd  yat  S"r1h  (  jm  vat 
itriyam  ghmtnti  uta  ltd  asydh  j'lranlydh  era  ddadata  "  iti  |  3.  Ttuydh 
Ag*ir  anHddyam  ddatta  Soma  rdjyam  Varnnak  idmr&jyam  JUitrah  ktfia- 
tram  Indrtt  balam  Brihtupatir  brahmaMreheuam  Sovild  rdihfram  Pu$ki 
bkajaik  Haravratt  piuhfim  Traikfa  rUp&ni  I  4.  Sd  Prajdpatin  abrarlt 
"d  cut  me  idam  adiihata"  Hi  |  su  ha  utdeha  "  yajiuna  eiuln  punar 
ydekut*  "  i(i). 


m  Lt&ymth  A*  fixing  tho  scum  of  ilii«  word  Professor  Aufrocht  refer*  ■»  to 
ffsUp.  Br.  p.  116 ;  BrJUl  Anqjaka  Up.  p.  737 ;  Mngdak*  Up.  pp.  27*,  276  ;  and 
8'rctsiTatens  Up.  p.  W2. 


850 


SECTION   XXL 

PROGRESS  OP  THE  VEDIC  RELIGION  TOWARDS  ABSTRACT 
CONCEPTIONS  OF  THE  DEITY.*" 


In  a  passage  which  I  have  already  quoted  above  (p.  8),  Yiiska,  the 

author  of  the  JTiruktn,  informs  us  (vii.  6)  that  previous  writers  of  the 
school  to  which  he  himself  belonged  (tlio  Kairufctas)  reduced  the 
deities  mentioned  in  tho  Vcdua  to  three,  viz.,  "Agni,  whose  place  is 
on  the  earth ;  Vayu  or  Indra,  whoso  placo  in  the  air ;  and  Surya, 
whose  place  is  in  tho  sky ; "  and  asserted  that  "  these  deities  severally 
many  appellations  in  consequence  of  their  greatness,  or  of  the 
diversity  of  their  functions,  as  the  names  of  help,  adhtaryu,  brahmmm, 
and  udgatri,  arc  applied  to  one  and  tho  same  person  [according  to  the 
particular  sacrificial  office  which  he  happens  to  he  fulfilling]."  In  the 
preceding  section  (vii.  4)  Yiiska  had,  however,  declnri -<1  that,  in  reality, 
"  owing  to  the  greatness  of  the  deity,  the  one  Soul  is  celebrated  as  if  it 
were  niuny.  The  different  gods  are  separate  members  of  tho  one  Soul. 
And  some  say  that  the  riahis  address  their  praises  according  to  tho 
multiplicity  of  natures  in  the  [celestial]  existences.  And  from  tho  uni- 
versality of  their  nature  the  gods  are  mutually  produced  from  each 
other,  and  possess  tho  natures  of  ono  another  (see  11. V.  x.  7,  4  £  above, 
p.  48,  and  Nir.  xi.  23,  quoted  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  Work,  p.  II); 
they  are  produced  from  works ;  they  are  produced  from  soul.  It  i« 
soul  that  is  their  chariot,  soul  their  horses,  boo!  their  weapon,  soul 
their  arrows;  houI  is  a  god's  all""3  {miihutmyud  divatuyfih  *kak  AtmA 
bahudhd  itHyate  \  thuya  almano  'nye  drrSh  pralyang&ni  bhatanti  |  opt 
ch<t  Hti!fr<imim  prahrM-bhtimabhir  fithaynh  tturanti  iiy  &huh  \  prahriti- 
adrvan&mny&ch   cha   itaretara-janrndnc    bhatanti   iiaretsra-j/rairitayah 

Bt  In  various  parts  of  the  translation*  occurring  in  Uui  section  I  received  valoal 
atsktancc  from  Profawor  Aufrccht. 
***  Ibis  passage  is  quoted  st  length  in  the  41L  vol.  et  tlu»  Work,  pp.  131-lM. 


PROGRESS  OP  TIIE  VEDIC  RELIGION 


851 


karmajanmAnah  atmajttnmunah  \  ulma  eta  «Adift  rathe  bkacaty  Htmd 
at\Oh  Atmii  tiyudham  iltmd  uhavah  iltmi  taream  itnuya).  Those, 
owevcr,  arc  the  views  of  nien  who  lived  after  the  compilation  of  the 
:imanns,  at  a  period  when  reflection  had  long  been  exercised  upon 
the  contents  of  the  hymns,  and  whon  speculation  had  already  nude 
considerable-  advance*.  In  tho  oldest  portions  of  the  hymns  themselves 
we  discover  few  traces  of  ony  such  abstract  conceptions  of  the  Deity. 
They  disclose  a  much  more  primitive  stage  of  religious  belief.  They 
as  I  hare  already  remurked,  the  productions  of  simple  men  who, 
under  the  influence  of  the  most  impressive  phenomena  of  nature,  saw 
ovorywhcic  tho  prcsoncc  and  agency  of  divine  powers,  who  imagined 
that  each  of  tho  great  provinces  of  tho  universo  was  directed  and 
animated  by  its  own  separate  deity,  and  who  had  not  yet  risen  to  a 
clear  idea  of  one  supreme  creator  and  governor  of  all  things  (pp.  &  f ). 
This  ix  fthown,  not  only  by  the  special  functions  assigned  to  particular 
gods,  but  in  many  case*  by  the  very  names  which  they  bear,  corns* 
ponding  to  those  of  some  of  the  elements  or  of  the  celestial  luminaries. 
Thus,  according  to  the  belief  of  tho  ancient  rishis,  Agni  was  the  divine 
being  who  resides  and  operates  in  lire,  Surya  the  god  who  dwells  and 
shines  in  tho  sun,  and  Indra  the  ngMOl  of  the  atmosphere,  who  cleaves 
tho  clouds  with  his  thunderbolts  and  dispenses  rain.  While,  however, 
in  most  parts  of  the  Rig-veda,  we  not  only  find  that  such  gods  as  Agni, 
Indra,  and  Surya  are  considered  aa  distinct  from  one  another,  bat  that 
various  other  divinities,  more  or  leu  akin  to  these,  but  thought  of  as 
fulfilling  functions  in  eorao  respects  distinguishable  from  theirs  (such 
Parjanyo,  Vishnu,  Savitri,  Puahan,  etc.)  are  represented  as  existing 
along  aido  of  them,  there  are  other  hymnB  in  which  a  tendency  to  iden- 
tification is  perceptible,  and  traces  are  found  of  one  uniform  power 
being  conceived  to  underlie  the  various  manifestations  of  divine  energy. 
Thus  in  the  texts  quoted  in  a  former  section  (pp.  206  ff.),  Agni  is  repre- 
sented as  having  a  threefold  existence,  by  which  may  be  intended, 
first,  in  his  familiar  form  on  earth  ;  secondly,  as  lightuing  in  the 
atmosphere;  and  thirdly,  as  the  sun  in  the  heavens.  In  other  pas- 
sages, whore  the  samo  god  is  identified  with  Visbga,  Varutja,  Mitra, 
etc.  (see  p.  210),  it  is  not  clear  whether  this  identification  may  not 
arise  from  a  desire  to  magnify  Agni  rather  than  from  any  idea  of  his 
essential  oneness  with  other  deities  with  whom  he  is  coonccted  (see 


:>,:-,  i 


IT.dUIIKSS  OF  THK  VEDIC  KSLIOIOX. 


also  B.T.  i.  U1,  9;  v.  3,  1  f. ;  v.  13,  6).  In  anoUier  hymn,  iv.  42, 
3,  too,  when'  Indra  appears  to  bo  represented  as  the  same  with  Varani 
Man  Indro  Varunah,  etc. ;  compare  the  context),  the  design  of  iho 
writer  may  hare  been  to  place  the  former  god  on  a  footing  of  equality 
with  Chi  latter  There  am,  however,  other  passages  in  the  earlier  hooka 
of  the  Rig-vcda  which  suffice  to  show  that  the  writers  had  begun  to  re- 
gard the  principal  divinities  as  something  more  than  mere  represents- 
tiros  or  regents  of  the  different  provinces  of  nature.  As  I  have  already 
shown  (pp.  61  ft.,  98  ff.,  168,  163  f.,  214  f.),  Varurja,  ladro,  SQiyn, 
Savitri,  and  Agni  aro  severally  described  (in  (trains  mora  suitable  to 
the  supremo  deity  than  to  subaltern  divinities  exorcising  a  limited  do- 
minion) as  having  formed  and  as  sustaining  heaven  and  earth,  and  aa 
the  rulers  of  tho  universe- ;  m  and  Vuruiji,  in  particular,  according  tu 
the  striking  representation  of  the  hymn  preserved  in  the  A.V.  (iv.  16) 
(though  this  composition  may  be  of  a  somewhat  later  date),  is  invested 
with  the  divine  prerogatives  of  omnipresence  and  ummiciencc.  Al 
though  the  recognized  co-existence  of  all  these  deitioa  b  ineon 
with  tho  supposition  that  their  worshippers  had  attained  to  an) 
comprehension  of  tho  unity  of  the  godhead,  and  although  the  epj 
denoting  universal  dominion,  which  are  lavished  upon  them  all  in  turn, 
may  bo  sometimes  hyperbolical  or  complimentary — tho  expressions  vt 
momentary  fVrvour,  or  designed  to  magnify  n  particular  deity  at  the 
expense  of  all  other  rival  object;  of  adoration, — yet  these  descriptions  no 
doubt  indicate  enlarged  and  sublime  conceptions  of  divine  power,  and 
an  advance  towards  the  idea  of  one  sovereign  deity.  When  once  the 
notion  of  particular  gods  had  become  expanded  in  the  manner  just 
specified,  and  had  risen  to  on  ascription  of  all  divine  attributes  to  the 
particular  object  of  worship  who  was  present  for  the  time  to  the  mind  of 
the  poet,  the  further  stop  would  speedily  be  taken  of  speaking  of  tho 
deity  under  such  new  uames  as  Visvskurmun  and  Frnjiipati,  appella- 
tions which  do  not  designate  any  limited  function  connected  with  any 
single  department  of  nature,  but  the  more  general  and  abstract  notion 
of  divine  power  operating  in  tho  production  and  government  of  tho 
universe. 
It  is,  perhaps,  in  names  such  as  these  that  wo  may  discover  the  point 


! 


»a  The  same  function*  are  ascribed  to  Viihnu  and  to  Rudra. 
ihu  Work,  pp.  64  sail  318. 


s  .  fei  in 


TEXTS  OF  A  MONOTHEISTIC  OR  PANTHEISTIC  CHARACTER.     358 

Of  btiwition  From  polytln  istio  to  in.uiorli.  Mid  UtU  BoA  UliH  fcfl  • 
terms,  which  ultimately  came  to  designate  the  deity  regarded  as  the 
creator,  had  becu  originally  used  as  epithets  of  Imlra  and  Suvi: 
the  following  passage*: — ILV.  iv.  53,  2,  u8tfit|j|  the  BUjijiurtor  of 
the  sky  and  tho  lord  of  creatures "  (dieo  dharttu  bhumuuya  praja- 
puiik}.**  riii.  8",  2,  "Thou,  Indra,  art  mort  powerful;  thou  hast 
caused  the  sun  to  shine ;  Una  nrt  grr.it,  tho  uairorsul  architect,  and 
possesseBt  all  godlike  attributes"  {I ram  India  abhtbhtr  ati  UaUt  tiryam 
yah  I  tticalwmu  viieadtco  mahan  ati)."* 


[  1 )  Tests  of  a  mor$  decidedly  monvtheitlit  or  pantiuistie  character. 

I  shall  now  adduce  those  passages  of  tho  Itig-vcda  in  which  a  mono- 
theistic or  a  pantheistic  tendency  is  most  clearly  manifested.  Of  modo 
of  these  texts  I  shall  only  state  the  substance,  as  I  bare  formerly 
treated  of  them  iu  detail  d  -i.vvWrc. 

Tlie  following  verse  from  a  long  hymn  of  an  abstruse  and  mystical 
character  '\.  161,  46,  111  nlrwidy  quoted  in  p,  219,  mite),  though  con- 
sidered by  Tasini  [Mr.  vii.  18)  to  have  reference  to  Agni,  and  by 
Xulyayuna  ami  BaytQS  (who,  however,  also  quotes  Yaska's  opinion)  to 
have  Suryu  in  view,  may  nevertheless  be  held  to  convey  the  moro 
general  idea  that  all  the  gods,  though  differently  named  and  repre- 
sented, arc-  in  reality  ono — 7ro\\ojv  ovofulray  popQi)  ft(a  '•  "  They 
call  him  Indrn,  Mitra,  Yiiruna,  Ayni;  and  (he  iH)  Uie  celestial,  well- 
winged  Onrutmat.     Sages  nan  it.  which  is  but  one:  they 

call  it  Agni,  Yama,  Mutarisvan."  **•  (See  Colebrooko's  Essay,  i.  26  f. ; 
Weber's  Ind.  Stud.  v.  p.  ir.) 

■"  So,  too.  Sums  i»  called  pnydpati.  « lurd  of  creators*  "  (R.V.  U.  4,  9). 

sn  80,  too,  in  R.V.  x.  170,  4,  SQrra  is  called  n.'wfcimM  sad  ruNArytrtf,  sad 
Saritri  i»  styled  « n't **Vr*  in  *.  SL>,  7,  sM  lb  SrsyaniMia,  "  the  ttll- 

eii»tmi,"  occcura  u  an  epithet  of  Mahtu  (penoaiiled  Wrath)  in  R.V.  x.  S3,  I.  See 
I  the  wtxretion  on  Kila.  Time. 

***  To  the  Mine  rnVt  i»  anothiT  t«xt,  R.V.  x.  Hi,  6:  Su/KtrmiM  tiynih  l-.imy* 
rttktAktr  ti*m  tanl/im  s*WAa  kalfyohti  |  "The  wise  in  their  hymn*  rrpttxnl 
asder  assay  forms  tho  weil-winRnd  (deity:,  win.  it  hoi  oao>"  Botnevhst  in  the 
Vty  it  i-  oil'].  A  '•".  mii  3,  I]  (»lic*dy  quoted  ia  p.  210,  note)  :  •' Agm 
asooaws  ia  las  evenine.  Vtraaa  (tic  god  of  sight),  and  Mitra,  when  rinajr  ia 
the  moraine;.  Becoming  Bsritri.  he  motet  thmuxh  tho  atmosphere,  and  becoming 
lndra.  he  bwras  slong  the  middle  of  the  sky."  I  a  xiii.  4.  1  il..  Saritn  is  Identified 
null  a  gwmt  many  other  deities.    The  words  s*ys  d.t*jy mj.**  ''••AmA,  in 

M 


354 


YISTASAJIMA.V. 


powers 

ion*  of 
■Hum 


R.V.  i.  89,  10  (quoted,  nbovo  in  pp.  43  t),  suggests,  oi 
hand,  a  pantheistic  sense,  as  it  asserts  all  things  to  he  the  mani> 
testations  of  one  all-pervading  principle :  "Aditi  ia  the  sky,  Aditi  k 
tho  air,  Aditi  is  the  mother  and  father  and  bod.  Aditi  is  all  the  god* 
and  tho  five  classes  of  men.  Aditi  is  whatever  has  been  born.  Aditi 
u  whatever  shall  be  born."  **  Reference  will  be  again  made  farther 
on  to  the  hymn  in  which  Aditi  is  described  as  one  of  tho  great 
to  which  tho  creation  is  due. 

In  some  of  the  representations  of  tho  character  and  functions 
Tvashtfi,  the  divine  artizan,  who  shaped  the   heaven  and  earth, 
have  an  Approach  to  the  idea  of  a  supreme  creator  of  the  uni 
(see  above  p.  225). 

There  is  considerable  variety  in  the  methods  by  which  the  later 
poets  of  the  R.Y.  attempt  to  conceive  and  express  the  character  of 
the  Supremo  Being  und  his  relations  to  the  universe,  as  will  be 
from  tho  following  details : — 

(2)  Vikakarma*. 

The  81st  and  82nd  hymns  of  the  tenth  book  of  the  Rig-veda  are 
devoted  to  tho  celebration  of  Yijrakannan,  the  great  architect  of  the 
universe  (see  above,  p.  32,  and  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  4  ff.) ; 
eo  that  the  word  which,  as  we  have  seen,  had  formerly  been  used  as 
mi  t  [lithi-t  of  Iudru,  hod  now  become  the  name  of  a  deity,  if  not  of  the 
Deity.  In  these  hymns  YUvokarman  is  represented  as  the  one  all* 
seeing  god,  who  has  on  every  aide  eyes,  faces,  arms,  and  feet,  who, 
when  producing  heaven  and  earth,  blows'"  them  forth  with  his 


B.V.  vii.  40,  6.  are  interpreted  by  Sanaa  to  sacaa  "  [To*  other  gods]  an 
of  thU  .  .  .  .  jrol  ViUiDu  -,"  tail  lh*  »imi»  baraxaa  brack***  art  not  in  the  original. 
In  R.V.  ii  «.  9,  all  other  briar*  aw  aid  to  b*  brancha*  of  Apteuaptl  (*»rU  ii 
mmyi  Um.m.1  «*W.  I  otawa  U^  a  hk  ltrtarta  on  the  "  Stint*  of  T.aagaiage." 
2nd  acrias.  a.  508,  Prafcaaor  Mollc^aaderatoJads  the  taord.  with  wbirh  all  tna  varaaa 
of  B.V.  ML  Si,  oaclnda  {mM  d*imm  saavarraaa  atnaa)  to  ngiofj,  -Tha  gnat 
divinity  of  the  gods  it  *m<,"  which  aright  ba  andantond  as  if  they  aasartiid  all  the 
god*  to  be  manifartaririni  of  one  nqirrne  drily.  The  eUnaa,  howoi.t.  arr»i  net 
saesn  an  tibiae  mare  than  that  tat  dttinc  fowar  4t  lha  roan  i*  Bfiqaa. 

*»  Compare  AekyVaa,  fragment  Ut.  translated  by  Protriaor  Miilkr.  -  Sriatwa  of 
Lanraart.'-  n.  441 :  IaU  acnr  e<#*#.  b^JinWiJ"  aCpanV  Zwr.ri  nm 
X*  vi  r»»e*  ift^t,pM.  Tin  Tiitt.- Br.  ui.  12.  t,  I,  any*  that  tha  nlf  niatoat 
Brahsaa  ■*  "  too,  fctber,  and  mother." 

m  T»ii  i*u**  ia  repeated  in  R.V.  x.  72.  and  may  have  been  locieaea  from 
HA. 


BBAHMANASPATI.  DAKSIIA,  AND  ADITI. 


353 


and  wings, — as  the  father,  generator,  disposer,  who  knows  all  worlds, 
gives  the  gods  their  names,  and  is  beyond  the  comprehension  of 
mortals.  In  one  of  the  Terse*  (the  4th)  of  the  first  of  these  hymns, 
the  poet  asks :  "  What  was  the  forest,  what  was  the  tree,  out  of  which 
they  fashioned  heaven  and  earth  ?  Inquire  with  your  minds,  yo  sages, 
what  was  that  ou  which  ho  took  his  stand  whoa  supporting  the 
world?"  This  verse  is  repeated  in  the  Taitt  Br.  ii.  8,  9,  6  (and 
comes  in  immediately  after  the  end  of  R.V.  x.  129,  which  is  quoted  in 
the  same  place).  Tho  compiler  of  the  Bruhraan*  replies  to  the  question 
which  the  original  poot  had  lift  unanswered,  by  saying  :  "  Brahma 
was  the  forest,  Brahma  waa  that  tree,  out  of  which  they  fashioned 
heaven  and  earth.  Sages,  with  my  mind  I  declare  to  you,  ho  took  his 
stand  upon  Brahma  when  upholding  the  world"  (sea  above,  p.  32, 
note  57). 

(3)  Eiranyagarbha. 

Another  name  nnder  which  the  Deity  is  celebrated  in  the  Rig-voda, 
with  all  the  attributes  of  supremacy,  is  Hinnyagarbba.  In  tho  121st 
hymn  of  the  tenth  book  this  god  is  said  to  hare  arisen  (uimmartlata) 
in  tho  beginning,  tho  one  lord  of  all  beings,  who  upholds  heaven  and 
earth,  who  gives  lifo  and  breath,  whose  command  even  the  gods  obey, 
who  is  the  god  over  all  gods,  and  the  one  animating  principle  (mu)  of 
their  being.     (See  the  4th  voL  of  this  Work,  pp.  13  ff.) 

(4)  Brakma$a*pati,  DaJuha,  and  Aditi. 

In  another  hymn  (R. V.  x.  72 ;  already  quoted  in  pp.  48  £),  the 
creation  of  the  gods  is  ascribed  to  Brahmanospati  (see  also  p.  280, 
abovo),  who  blow  them  forth  like  a  blacksmith  ;  •"  while  the  earth  'u 
said  to  have  sprung  from  a  being  called  TJttlnipad ;  and  Dakaba  and 
Aditi  were  produced  from  ooo  another  by  mutual  generation.  The 
gods,  though  formed  by  Brahmanasputi,  did  not,  it  is  said,  come  into 
existence  till  after  Aditi,  but  appear  to  have  had  some  share  in  the 
formation  or  development  of  tho  world. 

The  hymn  is  almost  entirely  of  a  mythological  character,  the  only 
attempt  at  speculation  it  contains  being  the  declaration  that  entity 
sprang  from  nonentity.    The  manner  in  which  the  author  endeavours, 

■»  fee  pp.  82  sad  M4 


3/.G 


NONENTITY,  ENTITY.  AND  THE  ONE. 


by  the  introduction  of  different  names,  and  the  ascription  to  them  of 
rariouB  agencioe,  to  explain  the  process  of  creation,  form*  •  atriking 
contnut  to  the  sublime  ragaeness  and  sense  of  mystery  which  char- 
acterize the  following  composition  (R.V.  x.  ^n).*" 

(5)  Nonentity,  Entity,  and  t\t  One,  h.t.  x.  129. 

1.  Na  atad  Mi  no  tad  iiAt  ta&AnWk  n&*\d  raj'o  no  ryoma  paro 
kirn  avarivnh  knha  katya  iarmann  ambhah  kin  fold  gakanam  gahki 

2.  Na  mp'tyur  atld  ampi'lam  na  tarhi  na  rSlryuh  .iAimA  Atlt  prakttah  \ 
6n\d  ardtatn  ovadhayH  tad  eka/h  tanned  ka  anyad  na  parah  kinchandoa  \ 

3.  Tamah  Gilt  tumatu  gallium  agr*  aprakttam  talilam  mnnm  a  idam  \ 
tuchhyma  dbhu  apihilam  yad  d»)t   taptutu  lad   mahind  jdyataikam   \ 

4.  Kaunas  tad  aart  tamararttattidhi  manato  rttah  pratkamam  yad  C»'it  | 
lata  bandhnm  asati  nimvindan  hridi  pratlohya  kavayo  manuka  [  5 
(  =  Yfij.  S;inh.  xxsiii.  74).  TiraicK'tno  vitato  ra&mir  ahum  adhah  trid 
dtid  wpari  *ti<!  Ml  \  retodhilh  dsm*  mahim&nah  A*an  nadhd  arattdi 
prayatih  parattat  |  6.  Ko  addha  etda  kak  iha  pro  tochat  kutah  ajdtd 
kulak  lyi-v  ntpiahffy  I  array  drrtih  a»ya  titarjantna  atha  ko  ttda  yaiah 
ahabhura  |  7.  /yam  r»#n*A/ir  ytilah  vlalkvva  yadi  ra  dadht  yadi  rd  na  | 
y«  atyddhyakthah  parnmt  ryaman  to  anga  vtda  yadi  rd  na  rtda  \ 

"\.  Tlirrt!  was  then  neither  nonentity  nor  entity:    there-  ru  no 

•">  This  hymn  hn»  been  alTrady  translated  by  Mr.  Colebrooke  anil  Professor  IfttDcr, 
as  well  as  in  the  4ih  vol.  of  lhi«  Work,  p.  4.     I  have  now  ondnivnaml  to  is 
my  own  version,  and  otherwise  to  illustrate  the  sense,  of  the  hymn.     Toe 
is  a  metrical  rendering  of  its  contcuta  :  — 

"  Then  there  was  neither  Aught  nor  Nought,  no  sir  nor  «ky  beyond. 

Wrist  covered  all  J    Where  tested  sll .»    In  wstery  pulf  profound  ? 

Rot  death  was  then,  nor  dtathkssoess.  nor  change  of  night  snd  day. 

iliiit  One  breathed  calmly,  s»lf.su»tuin«l ;  nought  else  beyond  li  lay. 

Qlora  hid  in  gloom  existed  first— one  sea,  eluding  view. 

That  <h»e,  s  void  in  chaos  wrapt,  by  inward  fervour  grew. 

'rTithis  It  first  arose  dc»irc,  the  primal  germ  of  mind, 

Which  nniliinv  with  existence  links,  as  cages  searching  find. 

Tin   kindling  rny  that  shot  ucroas  the  ilirV  anil  drear  abyss, — 

VsH  it  I"  ncath  t  or  high  aloft  f     What  hard  ran  answer  thu  t 

Then  I  huh!  iting  powers  were  found,  and  mighty  forces  shots.— 

A  self-supporting  aaass  beneath,  and  energy  ahora. 

Who  knows,  who  ever  told,  from  whence  this  vast  creation  taott 
J»  had  then  beun  born. — who  then  can  e'er  the  truth  disolceor' 
Hot  sprang  this  world,  and  whether  framed  by  hand  dmo*  or  no,— 

It's  lord  in  heaven  alone  can  telL  if  area  he  can  shun . ' 


-d_ 


NONENTITY,  ENTITY,  AND  THE  ONE. 


357 


atmosphere,  nor  sky  above.  "Wliut  enveloped  [all]?  Where,  in  lh8 
receptacle  of  what  [was  it  contained]  ?  Was  it  water,  tho  profound 
Bbysa  ?  2.  Dcutli  was  not  then,  nor  immortality :  there  was  no  dis- 
tinction of  da)-  or  night.  That  One*"  breathed  calmly,  self-supported; 
there  was  nothing  different  from,  or  above,  it.  3.  In  the  beginning 
darkness  existed,  enveloped  in  darkness.  All  this  was  undistinguish- 
oblo  water.**1  That  One  which  lay  void,  and  wrapped  in  nothingness, 
was  developed  by  tho  power  of  fervour.  4.  Desire  first  arose  in  It, 
which  waa  the  primal  germ  of  mind ;  [and  which]  sages,  searching 
with  their  intellect,  have  discovered  in  their  heart  to  be  the  bond 
which  connccU  entity  with  nonentity.  5.  The  ray  [or  cord]"*  which 
stretched  across  these  [worlds],  was  it  below  or  was  it  above  ?  There 
were  there  impregnating  powers  and  mighty  forces,  a  self-supporting 
principle;  beneath,  and  energy  iiloft."*  6.  Who  knows,  who  hero  can 
declare,  whence  has  sprung,  whence,  this  creation  ?  Tho  gods  are 
subsequent"5  to  the  development  of  this  [universe];  who  then  knows 
whence  it  arose  ?  7.  From  what  this  creation  arose,  and  whether  [any 
one]  mado  it  or  not, — he  who  in  the  highest  heaven  is  its  ruler,  he 
verily  knows,  or  [wen]  he  docs  not  know." 

I  am  not  in  possession  of  Sayena's  commentary  on  this  hymn ;  bat 
tho  scholiast  on  tho  Taittirtyn  Brdhmarjs  (=>.>e  also  tho  explanation  of 
Terse  4,  in  commentary  on  Taitt.  Arany.  p.  142)  in  which  the  hymn  is 


an  Compare  R.V.  i.  164,  6,  "  Wast  m  that  Oue  in  the  form  of  the  unborn  which 

mppurUd  tbess six  worlds  t"  («"  )«u  taiUmtku  ikaf  ima  ryauui  a,*iy*  rupr  Aim  */>• 

mti  •!*•»)■      1"  V.IAI.iljM,  X.  "4  it   )»  t*u\  ;    .la  rripnir  AaA.«M«   lim/rYSf 

tii, ye  it  J  torn  «»i  pr*ilituA  |  ..U.>.MiWA  *»rraw  itUm  «•'  HSti  ttam  tut  uUm  ri 

taMSta  nrram  |  " There  is  mo  Ajrni,  kindled  b oai  mighty  Sarya 

■"  tin  .  itrniUoT«r  all  tiling;  on*  C»hos  who  iUuuiinaU*.  tai»  nitut  «uiM.— tais  asw 
list  been  developed  iiito  tlie  sit." 

•»  Jn  Hm  M.  1th.  SMntip.  i.SI  2  IT.,  it  is  «id  tbst  (torn  the  rcther  "  w*i  proiaoed 
water,  like  another  dsrkows  in  <lirkn.«;    ami  tttm  tb>-  ntfl    ■'    H»-  ml 
prvduecd  tho  wind  "  (tufa)  tmliUm  mtpomfSt  lanwuir'tptram  Umnh  |  teamaV*.  tk* 
mrlilcCpiifSd  uditukthattt  mnmUM). 

»u  Professor  Auim hi  bos  suggested  to  ma  that  the  word  raimi  msj  hsvs  hers  tho 
■tasa  of  thrrod,  or  cord,  and  not  of  ray. 

***  Doss  tins  recti v«  any  illustration  from  R.Y.  L  169,  S  (quoted  above,  p.  SI), 
which  .pel.  of  the  "thought  (•—*.)  of  the  utlun-"  (Dysus),  sad  of  tb*  "mighty 
ind«t»  udcut  power  (omAi  m<«<«)  of  the  mother  "  (Ea«tb)  t 

**•  Comport  x.  73,  2,  3,  quoted  above,  p.  48,  and  x.  97, 1,  when  certain  plants 
are  said  to  bo  ulterior  to  the  gods,  by  liuce  yugas  (yak  aik+JMik  purriA  Jatih 
dsMOftyoi  triyttfttm  pnri). 


m 


NO.\  ENTITY.  ENTITY,  AND  THE  ONE. 


repeated  (ii.  8,  9,  8  ff.),  explains  it  in  conformity  with  the  philo- 
sophical idea*  of  a  later  period.  From  such  aoarees  we  have  no  right 
in  general  to  expect  much  light  on  tlio  real  meaning  of  the  ancient 
Yedie  poets.  The  commentator  in  question,  who  is  obliged  to  find  in 
the  words  of  the  infallible  Veda  a  meaning  consistent  with  the  upoest- 
lations  believed  to  be  orthodox  in  bis  own  age,  interprets  the  drat  vera* 
as  follows,  in  term*  which,  indeed,  after  all,  may  not  be  far  from 
correctly  expressing  its  general  purport :  Yada  parzwfuhfih  prahnA 
uttaraifuhlii  cha  na  utpannH  tadartiA  aadatatl  ice  apt  nubh-ltdm  | 
mimtrHpamiiahiattma  «path(apr<tilyamunaSi  jaaai  " *U" iabdanm  eriss/efe 
naravit/u'inilditamSnam  i&nyaict  "a»ad"  ify  uehyaia  |  tiulubhayaik  nutlt  | 
Itniu  kilchid  avyaktdvattku  &tU  |  «tl  cka  ritpatkafedbhaidd  na  taftjaaad- 
vtpudakatvtna  mdbhuvud  nSptj  atall  |  "la  tho  interval  between  the 
absorption  of  the  previous,  and  the  production  of  the  subs*  | 
creation,  there  was  neither  entity  nor  nonentity.  Tho  world  at  the 
timo  when,  by  possessing  both  'name'  and  'form,'1"  it  is  dearly 
manifested,  is  designated  by  the  word  'entity,'  while  a  void  which 
may  be  compared  to  such  non-existing  things  aa  a  'man's  horns,'  etc., 
is  called  •  nonentity.'  Neither  of  these  states  existed ;  but  there  tu  a 
certain  unapparent  condition,  which,  from  tho  absence  of  distinctness, 
was  not  an  '  entity,'  while  from  its  being  the  iustrumcut  of  tho  world'a 
production,  it  was  not  a  '  nonentity.'  " 

A  much  older  commentary  on  thiB  verso,  probably  one  of  the  oldest 
extant,  is  tho  following  passage  from  the  Rrtap.  Br.  x.  6,  3,  1  :  na 
i'i a  cat  idum  agre  atad  Arid  na  ha  tad  <>tU  \  a$\d  in*  rat  idam  ayrt  na 
ira  CHt  |  lad  ha  lad  manah  tea  dm  \  2.  Tatmad  ttad  rithi*»  '  bh<//tnHkt*m 
"  na  atad  &t\d  no  tad  am  tadanlm  "  Hi  |  na  iea  hi  tad  mono  na  in 
a»at  |  3.  Tad  idam  manah  trithfam  ncirabubhuthad  niruktataram  m*r- 
taleram  |  lad  altn&nam  anvawbhat  \  tat  tape  'tapyaUt  |  tat  primHrehhat  | 
tat  thaltrithiataJh  tahairGny  apafyad  Almano  'anln  ark  fin  manamafin 
manaschitah  iti/Udi  |  "  In  the  beginning  this  [universe]  was  not 
either,  aa  it  were,  nonexistent,  nor,  as  it   were,  existent.     In    the 

**•  Thtso  V  odontic  terms  itamt  and  form  occnr  (at  ohtrrmi  in  the  8eet>on  oa 
Yarns,  p.  300)  in  the  AthsrT».v«da,  x.  %  lti  "  Who  pUo«d  ia  him  (Poratha)  its*, 

magnitude,  and  form  tH  and  iu  xi.  7,  1  :  "In  thn  remain*  of  the  tacriBce  (•*•■'• 
tumo  mad  form,  in  tho  remains  of  tho  sacrifice-  the  world,  is  cumprrbendrd.**   Tho 
original  text*  trill  be  found  further  on  in  tho  subsections  oa  Puru»h»  ami  ITrtihiAtj, 
See  6'stap.  Br.  xi.  2,  3,  1  ff.,  u>  bo  rjiiuUxl  below,  iu  thn  subsection  oa  Brabant. 


NONENTITY,  ENTITY,  AND  THE  ONE. 


..::> 


beginning  this  universe  was,  as  it  were,  and  was  not,  ns  it  were. 
Then  it  was  only  that  mind.  Wherefore  it  baa  been  declared  by  the 
rishi  (in  tho  Ten*  before  a»),  '  There  was  thin  noither  Mtuntftf 
nor  entity  j '    for   mind  was,    as  it   wore,  noitl  nor   non- 

entity. 2.  Then  this  mind,  being  developed,  wished  to  beoome  mani- 
fested, more  revealed,  more  embodied.  It  sought  after  itself;  it 
practised  austere  fervour.  It  swooned.  It  beheld  36,000  of  its  own 
fires,  suns,  formed  <if  mind,  placed  by  mind,  etc."  Mind  then  creates 
Toiee,  voice  creates  breath,  breath  creates  eye,  eye  creates  ear,  ear 
creates  work  (or  ceremony),  and  work  creates  fire. 

Them  ideas  of  entity  and  nonentity  *"  seem  to  have  been  familiar  to 
the  Inter  Vcdic  poets,  as  in  R.V.  x.  72  (noticed  above,  nnd  translated  in 
the  section  on  Aditi,  p.  48),  we  find  it  thus  declared  (verses  2,  3),  that 
in  the  beginning  nonentity  was  the  source  of  entity :  "  In  the  curliest 
age  of  the  gods  entity  sprang  from  nonentity ;  in  the  first  ago  of  tho 
gods  entity  sprang  from  nonentity."  In  the  A.V.  g,  7,  10  (which 
will  bo  quoted  in  the  subsection  on  Skambha),  it  is  said  that  both 
nonentity  and  entity*"  exist  within  the  god  Skambha;  and  in  verso 
25  of  tho  aomo  hymn :  "  Powerful  indeed  are  those  gods  who  spnir- 
from  nonentity.  Men  say  that  that  nonentity  is  one,  the  highest, 
member  of  Skambha." ■  The  Taittirtya  Upanwhad  also  (I 
Indies,  p.  99)  quotes  a  verse  to  the  effect :  "  This  was  at  first  nort- 
iniiiy.  From  that  sprang  entity"  {uad  rsi  idam  ogre  OtU  |  talo  m 
tad  aj&yatd). 

The  author  of  the  Chh&ndogya  Upanishad  probsbly  allude*  to  woio 
of  these  texts  when  he  says  (vi.  2,  1  f.  Bibl.  Ind.  p.  387  f.):  Sad  tea 
h/ihi/ii  idam  <x$rt  dild  tkam  ova  adnttyan*  I  tad  ha  tin  Shut  "tuud  <r* 


•»'  Tho  Taitt.  Arany.  i- 11,  I  (DiM.  Ind.  p.  84).  aseribss  ths  devnlopownt  of  m. 
iitwice  from  n<"im>xi«*nw  to  the  seven  rfahla,  etc.  (ti.uak  sail  ye  ltlakt\»r  piAjyj* 
nfta  AtHi  ika  ynl  |  WfJ  trjyo  JfoAtyai  eka), 

•»  Another  *«w  of  the  A,  V.  ctS.  1. 19,  say* :  ■  Entity  is  founded  (pratitkfkiltm) 
on  nonentity ;  what  has  beoomo  (bkita)  is  founded  on  entity.  What  has  become  U 
bated  {akti *m)  on  what  U  to  be,  and  what  is  to  be  is  founded  on  what  has  becoaM  " 
(sssfi  ssf  pratiik^kilam  tali  tkutam  prmtukfkitam  I  tkutam  As  Uaryt  akilam 
kktryam  »**/<  frttukfkilam). 

*»  This  phiSM  (»ce  sbovs,  p.il)  i»  aUo  sppliod  to  Agni  in  E  V .  x.  i,  7,  when  it  is 
•iid  thai  that  god,  being  "a  tliiui;  Loth  ami,  nom<f  Utrot  (i>.  unaisnifrsted),  sad  mt, 
BdstSBl  (m>.  in  s  latent  Mate,  or  iu  teeooce),  in  the  highest  besren,  in  thr  creation  of 
DaiaUu,  and  in  the  womb  of  Adili  (comp.  R.V.  z.  72,  4  f.),  became  in  a  feraer  ago 


8M 


NONENTITY,  KNT1TY,  AND  TIIR  ONK. 


. 

without 
states*.' 


loVim  ogre  utld  eham  ecu  adtit'iyaffi  tatmdd  atalah  tttj  j&yeU"  \  2.  Kill** 
tu  khalv  totni/a  Mtffl  *i/uJ  •  ''  ta  much*  fnitfism  *vitah  *aj  yxjtia  1/1  \ 
*a>  If  <ca  tomya  idam  agrt  Qtid  tkan  era  adcillyam  |  fW  aikthata  baim 
ti(»M  pra/''>/'!/t  Hi  |  "Thi',  o  f.iir  youth,  mi  in  the  beginning  ex- 
istent (or  entity)  (wf),  one  without  a  second.  Now  smno  say,  'This 
was  in  the  beginning  non-existent  (or  non-entity)  (atat),  one 
n  second  ;  wherefore  tho  existent  must  spring  from  the  non-existent. 
2.  But  how,  o  fair  youth,  ho  proceeded,  c:ia  it  be  no?  How  can  the 
existent  spring  from  the  non-existent  ?  But,  o  fair  youth,  this  was  i 
tin'  beginning  existent,  one  without  a  ■eeond.  Thut  [entity}  though! 
'Lei  mo  multiply  and  be  produced.'  "  MS 

There  docs  not  appear  to  be  any  discrepancy  between  the 
in  R.V.  x.  129,  1,  ''Tin  rr  waa  then  neither  notimtity  nor  entity,"  nnd 
the  doctrine  of  the  Clihiindogya  (Tpuilhad,  for  in  the  second  rem  of 
the  hymn,  also,  a  being  designated  U  the  One  is  recognized  as  existing, 
■hi  h  amy  be  regarded  us  BBaWerf&g  to  tin*  primal  entity  of  the  VJp- 
;niitili;id  ;  while  KM  of  anything,  whether  non- 

cut  iiy  or  i  Titity,  assorted  in  the  first  verse,  may  merely  signify,  as  th* 
commentator  on  the  Tuittniya  BtAhmnrja  explains,  thut  there  was 
yet  no  distinct  IHUlliiMUIfoil  of  the  One.     In  like  numui-r  the 
7.  10,  25  (quoted  abore),  dues  not  assert  the  absolute  priority  of  n 
entity,  but  aJBrins  it  to  be  embraced  in,  or  a  member  of,  the  di 

il  as  Skamblm.  The  Chhandogya  Upanishad  has,  how* 
■  Hi,  a  greater  appearance  of  being  at  variance  with  itself,  ill.  19,  I 
(autd  tvfhrm  agre  utU  tat  sad  u»tl),  oud  with  the  Taittirlyu  Fpanisbad, 
II  m  with  verses  2  and  3  of  the  72od  hymn  of  the  tenth  booh  of 
the  R.V.,  nbovc  cited,  which  assert  that  entity  sprang  fr<nn  non- 
If  thiHo  vcraee  are  to  bo  taken  literally  oud  absolutely,  wc  m 
sapposo  the  poet  to  have  conceived  the  different  crcativo  agents  whoi 
he  name*,  Brahroannspati,  TJtlannpad,  Daksha,  and  Aditi,  to  ha 
•prung  out  of  nothing,  or  from  each  other,  or  to  be  secondary  man 
testations  of  the  entity  which  was  the  first  product  of  nonentity.  If, 
however,  with  thu  commentators,  wo  take  "nonentity''  to  denote 
merely  an  undeveloped  Btate,  there  will  be  no  contradiction. 


°z 


tbr  tlnt-Kmi  of  on  CaremnnM.  «nil  i»  both  a  hull  »nd  a  caw."     Iii  H, 

is  Mill  that  the  wrAAi.M"  (icraaiDf  of  the  Merinos)  w  buih  «*«  aiuluMn  (n 

»*»  Sss  English  trsnx.  p.  101,  whioa  1  hav«  not  followed. 


COURSE  OP  IDEAS  IX  BYM.V,  B.V.  x.  12*. 


Ml 


Tic  first  movement  in  the  process  of  creation  as  conceived  in  tho 
(R.V.  x.  129)  ia  thir. :  <lii-  One,  which  in  the  hymning  breathed 

1ml y,  Bclf-sustaincd,  is  developed  by  the  power  of  taptu,  by  its  own 
inherent  heat  (as  Profcaeor  MiilKr  eccptabia,  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  p.  361), 
or  by  rigorous  and  intent  abstraction  (as  Professor  Both  understands 
tho  word ;  »co  his  Lexicon,  «.r.)-MI     This  development  gave  occasion 

**'  Both'*  interpretation  ii  supported  by  a  teat  in  tho  A.V.  x.  7,  S8  (»cc  further  oa 
ia  the  subsection  on  Slumbba),  as  well  at  by  numerous  passage  in  the  rlr.ihinnoaa. 
Thos  in  Satap.  Br.  xi.  6,  8,  I  (quoted  in  the  5rd  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  4),  Prajfiruli, 
i  k  described  as  being  the  universe,  is  aid  to  bav»  desired  (ai'ta»y-i(«)  to  props* 
gate  himself,  and  to  have  striven  and  practised  rigorous  abstraction  (tape  'tapyata). 
And  in  tbo  some  Brihrnoria,  mi  7.  1,  1  ■'•  ited  a  bV  II  n  vol.  of  thin  work,  p.  25), 
lbs  self-existent  Brahma  himself  is  similarly  related  to  liaro  practised  tap**,  and 
when  bo  found  thnt  thut  iliit  inn  l  nil.  r  infinity,  to  have  olfured  himself  in  eacrifloa, 
i  gods  are  also  said  to  bare  attained  heaven  and  their  dirine  character  by  tap** 
l  above,  p.  15,  end  thn  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  SO,  21,  24.  and  2K8).  Compare 
also  the  Tsitt.  Up.  ii.  6,  where  it  is  said  I   Sa  lapo  'tapyat*  |m  I  "Urn 

*rrtjuta  yad  idam  kinrkm  |  "  He  (tho  auprvtnc  Soul)  d«airml, 
multiplied  and  prodaoad,"  B<  podbmad  tap**,  nnil  harinx  done  so,  he  created  all 
Ibis."  In  his  commentary  on  this  passage,  S'ankura  explains  that.  In  conformity  with 
-  Vedic  text,  knowledge  is  callril  taptu,  and  that,  aa  thn  mprrme  Bonl  has  no 
isjjstiififrl  desires,  no  other  sense  would  be  suitable ;  and  Hut  the  phrase  means 
"He  rnfloet...  COS  !'-!■<■!!■  iii,  etc.,  of  th*  world  which  «u  b*»og  ereefcd" 

(topo*.  Hi  jnSxam  uckyat*  |  "y«#jre  jnSi*amaym  fpah"  iti  iVlsfjl  aasaaTaW  o>c«- 
th  tka  i«tr*iye  otamblwc*h  ere  |  "as  tapt  'tappsU"  tapiu  laptciBH 
ifijyamiMUt-Jagad'nukamadi-ruhaynm  alatlm*nm  ainrad  iitnti  ity  mtkak).  It  is 
inn.-  that  all  these  passages  from  the  Bruhmaqas  are  of  a  later  date  than  the 
hymn,  but  the  R.V.  itself,  t.  167,  I,  says  thst  Indra  pained  heaven  by  Up** 
(ete  above,  p.  14},  where  the  word  oen  only  mcun  rigorons  elatmrtion.  The  word 
ia  also  found  in  R.V.  ix.  IIS,  2.  where  some-juice  is  said  to  be  poured  out  trass 
[lowed  winds  truth,  fuith,  and  .'.'/■•"  (p'ranlAe**  mty**m  traddkaya  lapatH  i*i*k)  ; 
in  x.  83.  2.  3.  where  Mmiyii  iirr.itli  prrsomlied)  is  bcKinght  to  prated  or  to 
slay  enemies,  along  with  tapu.  [tap»A  ar/oAnii,  ot  mjmw  yvS).  This  new  of  the 
word  is  also  lupported  by  T.iitt.  Ur.  iii.  12.  S,  It  •■  IM  ns  worship  with  an  abla- 
tion that  Qnt-boru  god,  by  whom  this  entire  universe  which  «>i*ta  U  samxindnl 
(ewriWiruw)— tlic  self-existent  Brahm*.  which  i»  tho  highest  f*/**.  lie  is  sow, 
rather,  mother.  Taptu  was  produced  as  the  first  object"  (pnudain  rn'om  pariMi. 
tarn  yd  a*tt  pratkauajam  d*r*m  kattika  tidktma  \  traymikn  Brakma  ptrnmam 
tip*  yet  |  M  ens  putrak  *e  pilH  M  mmtm  |  tape  As  yktkam  praikamam  asvwoavAirre). 
In  the  Mshabhimta,  R'intiparva,  10836,  Prajwpsti  is  aaid  to  have  created  living 
beings  by  '*/*'«,  alter  having  eatered  on  religion*  eberrvanece,  or  austerities  (miam). 
Tap—  is  also  mentioned  a*  tbo  source  from  which  creatures  were  produced,  A.V.  mi. 
1, 10.  Compare  Bhsgnvsui  r  rim.  ii.  :),  fi.  7,  111.  23,  awl  iii.  H>.  <  t.  Tap**  is 
eaiMiSOtsd  with  an  oblaxton  of  boi!«<l  milk  iu  a  pejeace  of  the  A.V.  tv.  11,  II :  yswei 
dtrik  Mvar  arumAur  Aiini  itr'tram  *mftUty9  aviftAias  |  Umi  yttima  Mbtp/eaaw 
Uk*m  «A<seMeeys  tratttu  tcpati  y+ityraK  \  "May  we,  renowned,  attain  to  the 
world  of  n'ghtcvomncee  by  that  ceremony  of  otTeriag  boiled  anils,  by  t^p**,  whereby  the 


si  t 


COURSE  OF  IDEAS  IN  HYMX.  It.V.  x    139. 


to  desire  (Kama)  which  immediately  took  possession  of  the  One,  sad  it 
described  as  tho  drat  germ  of  mind,  and  the  earliest  link  ***  between 
nonentity  and  entity.  The  po«t  HMD  goes  on  to  speak  of  impregnating 
powers,  iiud  mighty  forces,  of  receptive  capacities,  and  active  energies; 
but  confesses  himself  unable  to  declare  how  tho  universe  was  produced. 
The  gods  themselves  having  come  into  existence  at  a  later  stage  of 
creation,  were  not  in  a  position  to  reveal  to  their  worshippers  the 
earlier  p;irt  of  the  process  of  which  they  hud  out  been  witnesses.     The 


(Twin  ascended  to  heaven,  tbe  centre  of  immortality,  liarinf  left  bihind  their  bods." 

But  xi.  fi.  6,  connect*  ta/ma  with  heat :  "  The  Uialu ■•.  m  bdre*  BraasM, 

dwelling  (or  tlntlu-d)  in  heat,  nro»B  through  tapaa"  (pitrea jiua  BrmMmmgo  tnlai. 

ehari  ghm-mam  raw  mm  tapaiedotithfkat.    Jn  A.V.  tii.  61,  lapai  it  ecnnscctd  wita 

Afrni.     In  A.V.  svii.  I,  M,  Uftt  mron*  the  heat  of  thn  ran.     Taps*  u  aawntioasd 

»k>njr  nntli  fcfrSMH   in  A.V.  xi.  8,  2,  and  is  laid  to   uhtc  beta  produced   from  it 

..6). 

•*»  Tin  rnmmentator  on  the  Tnirt.  Br.  ii.  8,  9,  4  (p  »25  of  CslcutU  eslitioa,  in 

Bill.  Ind.)   says:    tiimeiya  larvn.rt/iwnhfiro-klKtr-am  VajatumyinaJk 

atho  ihnlt  ,'ihuh  "  kninamayalf  iviyam  purnthah"  iti  |   I' yam  'pi  tmarati  ui 

iamMamam  tttttam   ntinyaJ   <j»f/\tu    handhaitam "    iti    \  aamiad-amuhhata  'pi   Uathi 

U    |    •"•nit   hi  p*rnthnh  prathamam   ktnehit   Anmayitrn   tadarlhtm  ftayall 

wlm*  anhhaih  duhkhaih  vS  loahtia  |  "The  V&joMnejins  record  that  desin-  i*  the 
cause  of  all  action,  and  my  .  '  this  Punish u  u  liimwlf  actuated  hi  desire'  (Brifcadtr. 
Up.  p.  8  j*).  And  Vyo«i  too  declare*  in  his  srariti.  '  That  which  hind*  this  woeli  is 
desire ;  it  hm  no  other  hond.'  Tlie  same  thing,  too,  ix  toem  within  our  own  n  been  a 
tion  ;  for  i  t  in  only  after  •  man  ha*  first  desired  something;  that  he  will  strive  after  *W 
and  to  experience  pleasure  or  pain."  Id  numcruus  passage*  of  tlie  Br*amaij*>  and 
TJpaniahada  (aa  iu  lliut*  i|uot*d  in  the  lust  note),  no  nrc  Mid  that  the  first  step  in  the 
creation  was  that  Prujipati  or  Jlrshma  ''desired"  {akHmayata).  In  his  remark*  tax  taa 
passage  of  tin-  EaWbtja  Dpmlshad,  Quoted  in  tin-  hut  notr,  S'aatara  considers  it 
necessary  to  explain  that  the  supreme  Soul  is  not  •nbjeet  to  the  dominion  of  dcaure,  as 
if,  like  men,  he  hod  any  wish  uu fulfill od,  or  were  •uhjvct  to  tho  influence  of  asv 
desirable  objects  external  to  himself,  or  were  dependent  oa  other  thing*  as  instru- 
ment* of  attaining  any  such  external  objects  ;  but  on  the  contrary,  is  iadependrnt  of 
all  other  tiling,  and  himself,  with  u  ricw  to  the  interest*  of  living  beings,  originsktd 
bis  desire*  which  posusi  tho  characteristic*  of  truth  and  knowledge  (or  true  know. 
lclf-i).  and  from  being  a  port  of  himself,  are  perfectly  pare  IJkamaytrxtni J  arm*J- 
sWsSS  annptakamam  chil  |  na  |  natantryiit  |  yatka  'nyan  pararti'krity*  kOamidi- 
Joahbh  provaritayanti  na  tatho  Brahmanah  prat*rttakuh  k'tmuh  |  fsfli— l  tarha 
xityd-jniimi-lalt/iiirfuh  ti- a  I  nuib  h  u  lot  cod  fiiuiiiihaM  \  hm  tour  lirahma  prammttyata  I 
(CsAust  (u  (at-pratvrltakam  Brahma  prtigi-karmoprltAaya  |  ImamiX  -rifsafryass 
iimiihu  Brahmc^ah  |  alo  na  a+npfakamam  Brahma  *idha*i»lari«afwA.IUe,.u* 
4k*  |  InatU  yatha  'nyuham  aaitmaihutah  dhtrat5Ji^timiltiptA*iah  AamnA  aritima. 
iy<lirHla-ko'i/a-karnnn—i'itfhanantaroptktki<h/n    [-«    <ha .')  MS   tatKa    PrjUiraj 

htmi:toJyptk*hat*am).     I  shall  bclaw  treat  further  of  KAma,  as  a  deity,  and  at 
hu  conospoadsDce  with  the  Creek  'Epwi,  as  one  of  the  lint  principle*  of « 


IJISHI'S  CONFESSION  OF  IGNORANCE  EXPLAINED  AWAY.     363 


Tory  god*  being  at  fault,  no  one  on  earth  is  nblo  to  eny  what  was  the 
origin  of  tbo  world,  and  whether  it  bad  any  creator  or  not.  Even  ita 
rulwr  in  the  highest  beaten  may  not  be  in  possesion  of  tbo  great  secret. 

Such  a  confession  of  ignorance  on  tbo  part  of  a  Vedie  rishi  could  not, 
however,  bo  taken  in  ita  obvious  and  literal  sense  by  those  wlio  held 
tbo  Vudu  to  have  been  derived  from  an  omniscient  and  iufulliblu  source. 
And  in  consequence  the  commentator  on  the  Taittirlya  JJinlimaya  is 
obliged  to  explaua  it  away  in  the  following  fashion : — 

Atra  kt-chid  Agcmam  upekthya  tra-iva-buddhi-balad  auyathd  'nyathd 
utprekthante  |  tathii  hi  parara&nato  midakdranam  iti  Kdn&da-Ga 
uuidayo  manyanU  \  tvntantram  achrtanam  pradkdnam  jaftja  m&lakdra' 
gam  Hi  Kapila-prabhritat,ak  |  sUnyddito jagad-utpattir  iti 3Iadhyami-.< 
j'agato  kiranam  eta  ndili  si abh&eatah  eva  atatiththate  iti  Lokdyatik&h  \ 
U  tana  'pi  bhruntuk  eta  \  "  h>  addha  veda"  jagat-kdrenam  to  tidma 
pwuehak  tdkthdd  utagachhati  |  anatagalya  cka  " kak  iha  pratechat" 
ttayam  adfithftd  ko  nama  jagal-kdranam  idrig  iti  raktuM  iaknoti  \  ko 
'yam  ntra  toktavyduUak  iti  ch*t  \  uthyate  \  iyam  tividku  ifukfik  "kutnk 
djdtd  "  ta[ka  f)»mdd  updddna-idrandt  tartatah  utpannd  punarapi  kuto 
nimitldd  utpannd  iti  tad  idam  upddunam  ttimittaA  eka  taktaryan*  lath 
cha  rait  urn  aiakyan  |  htU>  'iaktir  iti  ehet  \  uchyats  |  kirn  dera^  ttad 
briyuh  kuU  'myak  kaichid  mamuhyak  |  na  turad  derdk  raktum  iaktuh  U 
hy  atya  j'agato  vividhairiihfer  "  art-ay "  eta  tidyanU  na  tu  tritiftk 
pdrxait  U  lanli  |  yadil  detdnum  a  pi  \drii\  gatis  taddnlm  "yatah" 
jagad  "  dbabhira"  tat  IdramaA  raktum  art  yak  ,,ko"  id  "ceda"  \  detdi 
ah*  mantufiydi  cha  trUhfth  prdy  anaratthdndd  m  tdcat  pratyakthena 
paiyarUi  taddnlik  nayam  era  abhatad  n&py  anurndtuA  ioUdt  tad-yog- 
yayor  hetudritk(dntayor  abhdtUt  |  tumid  aiigambhiram  idam  para- 
murtha-tattiam  caidika-aamadkigamyam  ity  abkxpruyak  |  .  .  .  .  iyam 
driryanind  bh&ta-bkaatika-rupd  citidkd  #/-wA/ir  yaiak  vpdddnok&r^ 
" dbobh&ea"  tartatah  utpannd  tad  updd4nakdranam  yadi  <>«  kinckit 
tvari'ipam  dkntcd  '  tat  ithf  halt  yadi  rd  tatya  ttaripam  era  n&tti  tam 
i'wm  mrnayam  yak  Paramaharo'tya  j'agato  "'dkyaktkak"  tedinl  "so 
anga  eida"  ta  na  teda  yadi  rd  to 'pi  na  ttda  \  \iilr\iUatyddi-laukika- 
ayaeakdra-dritkfyd  "to  anga  teda"  ity  uktam  |  yatra  to  aiya  tartan 
(Xlmd  eta  aihul  kena  Lam  paiytd  ityddi-tarta-tyacakdrdtlta-paramdrlka- 
driikfyd  '•  yadi  id  tu  teda"  ity  uktam  \  ato  mtaniukyddithu  tad-vtdana- 
ianka  'pi  durdpeta  \ 


364     IUSIirs  CONFESSION  OF  IGXOKAXCB  BXPLABIED  4WAX 


*4  There  are  certain  persons  who  contemn  revelation,  and  propound 
different  theories  of  creation  by  their  own  reason.  Thus  the  followed 
of  Kanada  ami  Gautama,  etc.,  consider  atom*  to  be  the  ultimate  cans* 
of  the  world.  Kipllu  uud  inhere  say  that  an  independent  and  on- 
conscious  Pradhana  is  tho  cause.  Tho  Miidhyamikas  declare  that  tha 
world  rose  out  of  a  void,  etc.  The  Lokayatikas  say  that  the  universe  has 
n  rjiiMr  at  nil,  li hi  i  d&M  s.i.r hi. -I !_-.  \li  these  Bpeoulatoa  in  Eb  brm 
Our  hymn  usks  what  mortal  know*  by  actual  observation  the  cause  of 
tho  world  ?  and  not  having  himself  had  ocular  proof,  how  can  aay 
ono  say  it  was  so  and  so  ?  The  points  to  bo  declared  aro  tho  material 
and  instrumental  causes  of  the  universe,  and  these  cannot  be  told. 
The  reason  of  thin  impossibility  in  next  set  forth.  Can  tho  gods  give 
tho  required  information  ?  Or,  if  not,  how  can  any  man  ?  The  goda 
cannot  tell,  for  they  did  not  precede,  but  are  subsequent  to,  tha 
creation.  Since  the  gods  are  in  this  predicament,  who  else  can  know  ? 
Tlie  purport  is,  that  as  neither  gods  nor  men  existed  before  the  creation, 
and  cannot  therefore  have  witnessed  it,  and  as  they  an  at  the  same  tima 
unable  to  conclude  anything  regarding  it,  from  the  absence  of  any  ade- 
quate reason  or  illustrative  instance,  this  great  mystery  can  only  be 
understood  by  thoso  versed  in  the  Vedas. . .  .The  lust  verse  of  tho  hymn 
declares  that  tho  ruler  of  the  universe  knows,  or  that  even  he  does  not 
know,  from  what.  nsjuia]  cause  tbj  rodd  uroac,  and  whether 

that  materiul  cause  exists  in  any  definite  form  or  not.  That  is  to  say, 
tho  declaration  that  'ho  knows'  is  made  from  tho  stand-point  of  that 
popular  conception  which  distinguishes  betwecen  the  ruler  of  the  uni- 
verse and  the  creature*  over  whom  he  rules  ;  while-  tho  proposition 
that  'ho  docs  not  know*  is  aatertcd  on  the  ground  of  that  highest 
principle  which,  transcending  all  popular  conceptions,  affirms  the 
identity  »f  all  things  with  the  Bupreme  Soul,  which  cannot  sea 
any  other  existence  as  distinct  from  itself.  [The  sons*  of  this 
last  clause  is,  that  the  supreme  Soul  can  know  nothing  of  any  object 
being  created  external  to  itself,  since  no  such  object  exists].  "A 
fvrtiori,  the  supposition  that  such  beings  as  men  could  possess  this 
knowledge  is  excluded." 

It  would,  however,  be  absurd  to  imagine  that  the  simple  author  of 
the  hymn  entertained  any  such  transcendental  notions  aa  then.  He 
makes  uo  pretensions  to  infallibility,  but  honestly  acknowledges  tha 


QUOTATION  FROM  THE  TaITTIRIYA  DRAHilANA. 


;,<:.-. 


perplexity  which  he  felt  in  speculating  on  the  great  problem  of  the 
origin  of  the  universe.*" 

An  a  further  ill u titration,  both  of  tliu  mora  ancient  and  the  Inter 
Mens  of  the  Indians  regarding  the  creation  of  the  world,  and  the 
manner  in  which  the  supreme  Spirit,  previously  quiescent,  was  moved 
to  activity,  1  add  another  passage  from  the  TuiUirTya  Brihmarja,  ii.  2, 
9,  1,  with  Kome  of  the  commentator's  ri  murks.  The  text  of  the  Brili- 
manu  runs  thus:*"  "This  [univcrso]  was  not  originally  anything. 
There  was  neither  heaven,  nor  earth,  nor  atmosphere.  That  being 
nonexistent  (mat),  resolved,  'Let  me  bo.'  That  became  fervent  (or 
practised  rigorous  abstraction,  atapyata).  From  that  fervour  (or 
abstraction)  smoke  wiu  produced.  That  became  again  fervent  From 
that  fervour  tiro  was  produced.  That  became  again  fervent.  From 
that  fervour  light  was  produced."  And  so  on, — flame,  rays,  blares, 
etc.,  being  generated  by  a  repetition  of  the  same  process.  (It  may 
perhaps  bo  considered  that  tbo  manner  in  which  the  word  Up*$  is 
used  in  this  passu  go  is  fuvourublc  to  the  idea  that  in  11.  V.  x.  129,  3,  it 
signifies  heat  rather  than  rigorous  abstraction.) 

Ibid.  ii.  2,  9,  10:  Auto  ,dhi  mono  'sryyata  |  mauah  Prajilpatim 
wrijat*  |  l+aj&patih  praj&k  curijata  |  "  From  tho  nonexistent  mind 
(m'miJ  was  created.  Mind  created  Prajiiputi.  I'rajnpuli  crested 
Offupt 

The  commentator's  explanation  of  the  first  part  of  this  passage  is  in 
substance  as  follows :  "  Before  tho  creation  no  portion  existed  of  the 
world  which  we  now  see.  Let  such  a  state  of  nonexistence  be  sup- 
posed. It  conceived  the  thought,  '  Let  mo  attain  tho  condition  of 
existence.'  Accordingly,  this  state  of  things  is  distinctly  asserted  in 
the  TJpanishad  (the  Taittirlya,  see  above,  p.  359) :  *  This  was  origi- 
nally nonexistent.  From  it  existence  was  produced.'  Here,  by  tho 
word  '  nonexistent,'  a  stute  of  void  (or  absolute  nullity),  like  that  ex- 
pressed in  tho  phrase  'a  hare's  horn*,'  is  not  intended;  but  simply  a 
state  in  which  mime  and  form  were  not  manifested.  Hence  the  Vaja- 
sancyins  repeat  the  text :  '  This  wua  then  undeveloped ;  let  it  Us 
developed  through   name   and   form.'     Earth,  tho  waters,  etc.,  aro 

uilsT  perpkiity  it  cbwwoeM  exprwsed  on  othrr  nibjcets  by  the  outkon  of 
■M    Sot  lb*  3rd  rol .  of  this  Work,  pp.  J79  £ 
»"  The  ward*  of  to*  erigiasi  will  be  luoi  I  .a  the  la  vol.  of  tliu  work,  pp.  27  f- 


366 


QUOTATION  FBOM  THE  TAITT1BITA  BRAHMAJjA. 


4  nunc.'  Hardnew  and  fluidity,  etc,  are  '  fonn.'  "  The  word*  "un- 
developed" and  "developed  "  arc  then  defined,  and  ilanu,  i-  6,  is  quoted 
in  proof.  Tho  supposition  that  tho  passage  before  us  can  be  intended 
to  denote  a  void  is  next  contravened  by  adducing;  the  text  of  the 
Chhandogya  Upaniahad  above  quoted,  whore  that  theory  is  referred  to 
and  contradicted.  "In  the  Aitareya  Upaniahad  (at  the  beginning}  it 
is  declared  :  '  Soul  alone  was  in  the  beginning  this  [universe].  No- 
thing else  was  active.'  Hence  the  negation  in  our  text,  'This  [uni- 
verse] was  not  originally  anything,'  refers  to  the  world,  consisting  of 
name  and  form,  framed  by  the  Supreme  Spirit,  and  is  not  to  be  under- 
stood absolutely.  Designated  by  the  word  *  nonexistent  *  (iiMf),  be- 
cause devoid  of  name  and  form,  but  still  (really)  existing  (oat),  the 
principle  [called]  tho  Supreme  Spirit,  impelled  by  the  works  of  the 
« n  , it  up  ,i!i  orbed  in  It,  conceived  a  thought  in  tho  way  of  a  reflec- 
tion, '  Let  me  bo  manifested  as  existent  in  the  shape  of  name  and 
form.'  As  a  man  in  a  deep  sleep  awakes  that  he  may  enjoy  tho  fruit 
of  liis  works,  so  the  thought  of  causing  all  living  creatures  to  enjoy 
the  fruit  of  thoir  works  arose  in  the  Supremo  Spirit  Possessed  by 
such  •  thought,  that  principle  [called]  the  Supreme  Spirit,  practised 
rigorous  abstraction  (tapat)  as  a  means  of  creating  name  and  form. 
Hero  tapai  docs  not  mean  any  such  thing  as  tho  krichbra  or  chondra- 
yanu  penances,  or  the  like  ;  but  denotes  consideration  regarding  the 
particular  objects  which  were  to  be  created.  Wherefore  writers  of  the 
Atharvu- veila  school  record  the  text :  ' He  who  is  omniscient,  all* 
understanding,  whose  tapat  consists  of  knowledge.'  Prom  the  fact  that 
this  tapat  has  nothing  of  the  character  of  any  penance,  it  may  be 
properly  regarded  as  denoting  the  reflection  of  a  being  who,  though 
uncmbodicd,  is  yet  omnipotent,"  etc..  etc.  "  From  the  supreme  God, 
being  such  as  has  been  described,  in  conformity  with  his  volition,  a 
certain  smoke  wan  produced,"  etc.,  etc. 

(  Yad  idam  tih&vara-jangama-rupam  bft&lok&dirQpam  chajagad  iddnim 
dfiiyaU  tat  fiimapi  *fith{cA  pirvam  naita  d*U  |  tat  tddfitam  otad- 
rupam  era  varttamattum  tyul  |  *ad-rupatam  prupnuyum  ity  ttndriiam 
msho  'kuruta  \  tath&  eha  upanithadi  pun-am  atad-ripam  paittot  tad- 
rftpatotpatti*  eha  ti*path{am  amndyofo  "  atad  vai  idam  ear*  atU  talo  r*» 
tad  ajdyata"  Hi  |  atra  "  a»at-' iabdena  ns  iaia-viiKutudi-tamunait 
iitnyntvaOi  twtkthitttm  kirn  tarhy  anabhityakta-na'ma-rQpaUam  |  atah  Ha 


PUBCSIIA. 


3G7 


Viijataneyinah  tamurnananii  "  tad  ha  idafh  larky  avyiikritam  dtit  |  tad 
n&ma-rup6bhy<im  *ta  rydkriyeta"  iti  \  bhumir  Qpah  ityadikam  nana 
kCfhtnya-drarudikairi  r&pam  | .  .  .  .  Aitartyinat  (t  adhlyate  M  ulmil  rai 
attorn  ekah  «•«  agre  uild  na  any  at  kinchana  unshod"  iti  |  tatm&d  "itaica 
kinchana  airld"  ily  ayaih  niihtxlhah  Puramdtnia-nirmila-nama-rupt'it- 
maka-jayad-vithayt   na   tu  kriitna-rithayah    |    numaripa-rah\t<ttitna 

" a*at''-6abda-v<lehyarh  tad  tea  aeatthitam  Paramdtma-tattram  ttutrnany 
oHturhita-prdai-karmaprtrit&m  tad  RdMfl  'M  utirbhttvtyam   iti 

paryaloehana-rupam  tnano  'kurvta  |  yathu  gddha-nidr&m  prdptatya 
pvnuhaxya  karma-phaJa-bhogilya  prabodhah  utpadyalt  txth'l  tarean 
pruninah  tta-tva-karna-phalam  bhojayilum  Idriio  tich&rak  Paramut- 
tnMah  prfidurabhut  |  tathCiidha-cithtlra-yiiktai'h  tat  Parantattna-tattra- 
rupaA  ndtna-riipa-tnthti~tud}uma'ri)patn  tapo  'kuruta  \  na  atra  tapah 
kfiehhra-chdndrdyamldi-riipam  \  kintu  trathfarya-paddrlha-vihiha» 
ttithayan  paryUoclutnam  |  aiah  eta  Atharvanik&h  Amananii  "yah 
urvajnah.  tan-avid  yatya  jnSnamayaA  tapah  "  iti  |  krichhrddi-rupatra- 
bhat&d  aiariratya  apt  taria-lakli-yuktasya  paryafochanam  upapannam  | 
.  tadrwU  tasmdt  Parameitardt  tva  •  tankalpdnutirrna  kaichid 
dhumah  uiapadyata  |) 


(6)  Purutha. 

Another  important,  but  in  many  plaor*  obscure,  hymn  of  the  Rig- 
veda,  in  which  tho  unity  of  tbc  Godhead  u  recognized,  though  in  a 
pantheistic  tense,  is  the  90th  of  tho  tenth  book,  the  celebrated 
Furusha  Sukta,*"  which  is  aa  follows  : 

1.  SahatraiXrthdh  Puruthah  uthmrdkihah  tahatrapdt  |  ta  bhiimim 
vtiralo  vn'tru  aty  alishfhad  daJdnynlam  |  '2.  Puruthah  tvtdsA  tan  am 
yad  bh&taih  yach  cha  bhatyam  |  utdmritatratytiam  yad  annendtirehati  | 
3.  Etdv&n  aiya  mahimd  ato  jydydM  eha  Puruthah   \  pad*  'tya  pittd 


***  Tranalationa  uf  tliii  hymn  (which  ia  alio  given  with  slight  Tariationa  in  Vij.  S. 
13. 1  16.  mill  A.Y.  19,  «,  and  7,  5,  4)  will  bo  found  in  Mr.  CoUbrookVa  Miacel  Eta. 
i.  167  (at*  alto  th«  note  in  p.  S09  of  the  aama  volume),  aa  alto  in  th*  lat  vol.  of  thia 
Work,  9  ff  ;  (into  French)  in  tho  Prtfac*  to  Bnrnouf'a  Bhigavata  Ihjrin.,  ml  i 
pp.  cmL  ff.  (where  ace  tho  note*) ;  and  (into  German)  is  Frofaaor  Weber*  Lad. 
Stwd.  ii.  fi  ff.  I  hare  now  ondtaroored  to  supply  aomo  farther  illuatrationt  a.  itu 
idea*  in  th*  lit  ma.  I  haw  paaaed  aver  aararal  obactiriti**  oa  which  1  b*v»  barn 
unable  to  throw  any  light.  Tho  tint  two  renaa  are  given  ta  the  S  vataa'raUia 
UponUhod,  ui.  U,  15,  where  the  conuncaUry  m»r  ha  CooaulUd. 


308  PURUSHA. 

Malum'  tripud  UfOmfitaM  dici  I    1.  •irddkcah  ud  ati  /VvaUl 

pudo  'tynhubtatvat  pwtak  |  tale  lithtan  cyabrSmtt  46j»natuianr  «Wt  | 
6.  Tmm&d  J        .'       •  f$  cdhi  J'uruthak  |  M  j&to  aty  *r,<Ay*U 

paieA&d  Mfimiw  alio  pur  ah  |  6.  la/  Purtuktna  harithil  detak  ya/*M 
atatuatn  |  ttuanto  an/ut'id  ajyam  grtihmah  idkmah  iarad  katik  |  ?.  71r** 
yajiwm  bnrkiihi  praukthim  Punuham  julam  ayratak  |  r>n«  aterdA  «•*- 
;'<i«/rt  tiid/iytih  ruhayai  cha  yt  |  ti.  Tfcmdrf  yajnat  urtthutak  tamkkpi- 
fam  pfiikadAjyam  |  pniiiiht  /'iwi  rA«ir«  cSyacydn  dranyam  yrdmyai  tkt 
ye  |  9.  Tumid  yoj'iuU  tartakutak  richah  mJmUni  jojnire  |  ckhamd&Au 
jajnirt  tatuuid  yoju*  tatmad  ajAyata  |  10.  Tiumtii  aiulk  aj'dytnta  yi  k* 
eha  ubkaytidatak  |  £<iw  Aa  jajm'rt  tatmat  tmmaj  ja'.ak  aj'UvmyaA  |  11. 
Yat  Punuham  ci  adadhuh  katidhd  ti  ahalpayun  |  muikaih  kirn  aty*  ks* 
hah*  hi  nm  pudau  uckyeU  |  12.  Brdkeuino'tya  nuk/uim  arid  buku  rij*- 
ntjah  kjitah  |  uri  tad  atya  yad  raiSyah  padibylm  i&dro  ajtiyaUt  |  14. 
Chandraiunk  WUHMOJ9M  Siry9  ojuyata  \  muktidd  /nJraJ  tk* 

Ayn*i  cha  prdnud  Vuyur  ajiiyaU  |  11.  Ndbhytih  dtld  antariliknm  firtkm 
dymh  ranttiortaUi  |  padbhyiim  bhumir  dunh  irotrul  fit  ha  Man  eltlp*- 
yan  |  15.  SaptStytitan  paridkayai  trih  *t\pla  tavUdhah  IritaA  |  d+ruk 
yad  yiy'nam  lanvaivik  abadhnan  Punixh/tm  paiuut  |  18.  Yijatmm  yty'msm 
ayajanta  d*tat  t&ni  dharmJlni  pratkamuni  titan  \  U  ks  ndkum 
tuih  lachtiHta  t/n/rti  fWM  >'irifn/uh  tanti  dttrlk  | 

"1.  l'uni'liu  bM  ii  thoiiMim  1  bmdl  (u  thousand  mini,  A.V. 
nid  eyea,  and  a  lhou«  m<l  foot.  On  orury  side  enveloping  lb© 
eartli,  he  transcended  [it]  by  a  space  of  ten  fingers.  2.  Punudm  hirn- 
gclf  ib  this  whule***  [aniTerBe],  wbatevec  haa  be«n,  and  whatever  ahall 
be.  lie  is  also  the  lord  of  itntnoitulity.  since  through  food  ho  ex* 
jiand*.*"  3.  Such  is  his  greatness;  and  Purasha  is  superior  to  thi». 
All  existing  things  arc  a  quarter  *l"  of  him,  and  that  which  is  immorUl 


■ 


•'*  Compnrt  S'atap.  Br.  ir.  S,  2,  1  s    S*ri«m  A^  «yow  atma;  "(ue  this  »0«1  m 

errntliiiiK-" 

M'  Tbi-  HtM  of  tb<  lut  rlimw  i«  oWurc.     tt  m»y  alfo  roraa,  ««ordinf  let  ll» 
enmiiL.  Hu  V :.j.  S.  ud  the  S"tc1u»V.  Upan.  "  (be  b  tlso  ihe  lord  of)  t 

i  grown  by  food."*     Aeoordifi;.'  in  tho  Rhagirata  I'ur-yu 

big  br  h*i  tnnu-i  u.lr-1  mortal  nittrimt-Tit."     Tl» 
ponage  of  lii'    A.V.  (i:<,  o,  -I)  rwi.U.  "be  is  tlao  lh«  l»id  of  itnnuct«Hly,  dtam 
became  unii«l  wilti  anuibcr  (y»rf  airyr»5iA«ic*  i»kt). 

»"  Comptrc  A.V.  x.  1,7,  uA  ■  prodeead  tb« 

■»  arid ;  ka>  »b '-'  '«<nnie  of  llut  wnieh  was  the  [other]  half  of  hJra  t  jnrlkmm 
Ut,r«-v.»«  >*y5*«  y*  «y*  «^i**  *»•  »*<  *^»i«").     IS.  Prajipwi  mot*,  wnlita 


nOthat 

:5S 


PUItffSIIA. 


m 


in  the  sky  is  three  quart*™  of  him.  4.  With  throe  quarters  Punish* 
mounted  upwards.  A  quarter  of  him  again  was  produced  here  below 
Ho  th«;n  became  diffused  CTcrjwhere  among  things  animate  and  inani- 
mate.    5.  From  him  Viriij  was  bora,  and  from  Viriij,  Puruslia."*     As 


the  wnmn ;  though  unseen,  ho  i«  liorn  in  nuiny  form*.     Willi  tho  half  hn  produced 
the  whole  world  ;  hut  the  [other]  half  of  him,  what  sign  it  there  of  it  F "     Compare 

V.  x.  7,  B|  '•'•  wlii.li,  an  well  u  portion*  of  A.V.  x.  8,  will  be  found  'i'1"' 
translated  further  on,  in  the  snliecclion  on  Skambha. 

»«»  The  oommontalor  on  the  Vaj.  San.  (whirr,  at  I  bare  said,  (Lis  hymn  it  abo 
found;  explains  thin  reciprocal  generation  of  Viraj  from  I'urinhii,  and  again  of 
l'uiu'lii  Una  Viriij,  by  saying,  in  conformity  with  Vedantic  principle*,  that  Viraj  in 
tho  form  of  tbo  mnndnnn  epg  sprang  from  Adi-l'urusha  (primrtal  Puiu-lu),  who 
then  catered  into  thin  egg,  which  ha  animate!  at  it*  *ilnl  a»ul  ordi-. 
(tal*h  |  Itiwad  adipuntth&J  \'ira(  *>«A«>.uni<-i/<Ao  'jayofa  |  .  .  .  .  ram  era  Jtkam 
tik<iatamtn  a/rifni  FutxiKm  ttd.lt habhimaui  tkalf  tra  putnan  tjaguta  |  bind* 
tttfinla-rtdy'ih  1'arnmalma  »c«-mM»/"J«>  I'i'Aif-tUhiiKi  eVwAardnd  m  uptm  *rii*fro 
Ultra  j itfriiptnu  praritya   brahmanAiMiimiiiti  dfrntfttvia  jhn  'Mnvad  ily  mrlktl)). 

According  to  Manu,  L  8-11  (see  the  ltt  toI.  of  thit  Work,  pp,  85  f.)  the  supreme 

Brtt  created  the  water*,  in  which  he  placed  on  egg,  from  wbicb    | 
aclf  wis  bom  u  llrahma.  also  culled  NJrivuna.     Thu  mala  (Puruaha),  crmlcd  by 
the  cU-riml.  imperceptible,  first  Cause,  ia  at  Terse  1 1  repeats,  rolled  Brahma.    Brahma 
hy  hia  own  thought  split  the  eyjj  (Terse  12).     After  various  othar  detail*  regirdinc; 
the  creation,  the  writer  go**  on  to  aay  (verse  J'i)  that  Brnbmi  divided  hit  own  body 

v..  hnl «•!-<,  of  which  <>no  became  a  male  (l'urushx),  >i> i  |h<  .h 
whom  ho  produced  Viriij.  Thit  male  (Punuhii}  Vfrij  ngaiii  crtutct  Mann  L 
(rerao  33).  We  here  see  that  the  word  malo,  or  I'urualia,  ia  applied  by  Mann  to 
three  beings — vis.,  first,  to  Brahma  (verse  11);  aecond,  to  the  male  formed  by 
Brahma  bum  the  half  of  hi*  own  body  (verse  32) ;  and  thirdly,  lo  Vir.j.  uli...m 
Brahma,  or  hit  male  half,  produced  from  tbo  fanul*  who  was  mad*  oat  of  At 
half  of  hit  body  (ace  alio  Wilson's  Vishnu  1'urana,  p.  105,  note,  in  Dr.  Hall'* 
edition).  Another  explanation  of  the  rcrau  U,  however,  to  bo  obtained  by  eonipmiug 
the  timilar  passage  in  R.V.  i.  72,  4:  "Daksha  sprang  from  Ailiti.  nd  Aili: 
Dakiiia  "  (quoted  above,  p.  48),  toifether  with  tbo  observation  of  Yaaka  (Niruku.  xl. 
23,  alto  quoted  ahovt  in  page  60),  that  this  startling  declaration  may  bo  explicable 
en  the  ground  that  thate  two  deities  bad  the  tame  origin,  or.  in  conformity  with  a 
characteristic  of  their  dirine  nature,  may  ha»«  boon  produced  from  each  oth.r,  and 
bare  derived  their  substance  from  each  other.  (See  also  Nirukta,  rii.  4, quoted  above, 
p.  360,  where  the  author  repeata  the  tame  idea  regarding  the  nature  of  the  god*). 
Compare  alto  A.V.  xiii.  4,  29  If.,  where  ladra  U  said  to  be  produced  from  a  great 
nosy  different  phenomena  or  element*,  and  they  reciprocally  from  him  (m  tai  ahno 
tjtyat*  l**mid  «A*r  o/syate).  The  S'atap.  Br.  (xiii.  6,  1,  8)  underatsuids  Virij  in 
the  passage  before  u>  to  signify  not  any  male  power,  but  the  metre  ef  that  name: 
"The  Viraj  baa  forty  tyllsblea.  Hence  he  (I'uru»ha)  obtains  the  Viraj,  aecordinr  to 
the  text,  'Krom  him  iprang  Vlrij,  and  from  Virij  Purotha."  Thi*  b  that  Viraj. 
Fran  this  Viraj,  therefore,  it  ia  that  he  begets  Punuha  the  tacrine*."     Viraj  occurs 

.  130,  6,  as  feminine  and  at  the  name  of  a  metre. 


BfBU 


18, 


It  ia  alio  fvuud  in  x.  169,  3,  and  x.  1M,  I,  aa  wall  a*  in  i.  18$,  6,  where  it 

M 


370 


PTJRCSHA. 


soon  as  bora  he  extended  beyond  the  earth,  both  behind  and  before.1" 
6.  When  the  gods  offered  up  Funuha  as  a  sacrifice,  the  spring  -was  its 
clarified  butter,  summer  its  fuel,  and  autumn  the  [accompanying] 

adjective.  In  t.hc  A.V  it  i.«  of  frequent  occurrence,  and  sometimes  is  an  epithet,  end 
sometimes  denote*  the  metre  of  tlrnl  name.  Tim*  in  ii.  2.  5  (conjure  Vij.  Smb. 
17.  3.  ami  S'ut-'ip.  Br.  ix.  2,  t.  10),  it  is  snid,  "That  daughter  of  thin*. a  Kama,  is 
called  the  Cow,  she  whom  nutes  denominate  V. leg  Vb*j  "  baa  below,  the  imbaectMi 
on  Kimo,  and  I  ml.  Sfir.l  ix.  478;  compure  R.V.  riiL  90,  lo:  vurWhio.5  V'tUm 
....  dtvlm  devtihgah  pary  eyuthtA  yam  |  ■  The  fadeless  Vech  . .  .  .  the  cow.  who 
ha>  come  from  the  gods").     Again  in  riiL  9,  1  :  ralum  Virvjah  talifad  wimttim  | 

2.  Vattah  tSMJUfU  Vuhjtih  | 7.  I'irnjain  oAirr  brihmoifik  pi  I  tram  lim  m  si 

dhiht  yatiillia  itkhibhyak  |    8.  Ynm  praekyutam  «nu  yajniih  prarhftranti  mftitifh 
ant*  bpatttkfjiamnnnm  |  yniyah  <'■»'?  praian  yniikain  tjn  •   .l.Ty-* /••'♦«< 

ry«m4M  |  9,  ••  ppTjoiu  /•r/rniir'ii"i»  J'l'ru/  S««r-y'rim  *Hytti  ptiMSl  |  "The 

two  cakes  of  Virtj  roue  MM  of  the  water,    2  . . . .  The  diiirr-ncatowinir  calf  oi 
It  is  sbnrilv  afterwards  (Terse  7)  strongly  said  that  VirSj,  though  spoken  of  in  I 
feminine  (render,  in  the  '-either  .il  hnihrniin,"  whether  thnt  moan  thr  deity « 
"They  "ay  thst  Viruj  is  the  father  of  devotion.     Urin^  her  to  ns  thy  friends  is 
many  forms  (at  thou  c&nrt).     8.  She  whom,  when  lh<   advances,  aaeriSeee  folio 
sud  stand  still  whim  I  .    tkv,  by  whose  will  and  encrjry  the  liriuf 

mores,  a  VI  leaven,    9.  'Without  breath,  she  moves  by  the  breath 

of  breathing  (haules.     Varftj  follows  after  Sraraj,"  ere.     The  ealf  oTViraj  is  mao- 
in  liii.  1.  33.     In  viii.  10,  1,  it  is  said  of  her:   Virdtf  rai  idmm  myrt 

ttt'rl  laiyTih  jalliyai  ni/rr,  "  lyim  rt*  tdam   Mtiriikyttti"  Hi  |   2.  Si  MSls- 

ktuntat  jii  ga>h*p»<yr  tftkribmit  |  grihamtikl  yriA»p«tir  *4<M«fi  ipsa)  rrWl  f  I'aki  I 

I  ill  ilii-  f  universe].  Everything  wns  afraid  of  her  when  she  was 
hum,  bat  the  hentlf  sbnuld  baoomi  tfdt  1.  She  nscendrd.  8h»  entered  the  Oar* 
hspatya  fire.  He  who  knows  this  becomes  master  of  s  honse,"  eta.  And  in  it.  1  n. 
24,  in  read  :  Vinid  vay  viriif  priihiri  virad  anlttnkth.im  tirat  prefiipattA  |  rinit 
mfityMk  tSdkyikSm  §Mir3je  (i/Mure,  etc.  "Vltij  b  V3eh,  is  the  earth,  and  tea 
air,  is  PrnjSpnti,  in  Death,  the  ruler  of  the  SWliyn*."  etc.  Samp.  Br.  xiu.  2,  6,  S: 
Pdifipatir  Virajam  tvfijal  ea  'mat  *ru/t(a  parachy  oi!  \  ta  'i'mph  meJAymm  jrri- 
wiiiii  |  '*  Prajupnti  cre-ntci  Vbfj.  Bba  being  produced  from  him  went  away  and 
entered  into  Oil  BMlfflfllil  horse."  In  rasdinf  these  passagea  we  ahould  baar  in  mind 
the  great  power  nttributed  hy  the  Vedia  writers  to  hymns  and  metre*.  8ee  W«hsr*s 
h.il.  Stud.  viii.  R-12  ;  and  vol.  iii.  of  this  Work,  pp.  275  ft".  On  tha  rirtee*  e/  the 
Viruj  in  particular,  sec  Weber,  «»  above,  pp.  6H  tt.  In  the  followiu;  texts  the  word 
I  masculine  name  or  an  epithet :  A.V.  si.  5.  IS.  "  The  tebfirya  is  a  brakma- 
charin ;  the  bralimachHrin  ia  1'r.ijupiii.  I'r.ij.ipnti  shines  (ri  roMfi).  He  beoaae 
tho  rcajilrndent,  powerful  Indra."  So  also  in  iv.  11.  7  ;  nii.  3,  6 ;  xi.  5,  7  ;  and 
viii  A,  10,  whrr.i  VirAj  precedes  or  foHowx  the  worda  IVsjipati  and  Pxrarneshfhia. 
In  (I    i,  IS,  Vir.ij  u  identiHod  with  Pruna.     In  the  Bphnd  Ar.  I  •  called 

the  wifo  of  Funuha.  (Sec  p.  217  of  Dr.  RUcr'i  tranalstion.  In  R-V,  x.  Ii9.  i 
(itthn  us  tiuhita  eirof),  nnd  x.  160,  1  [virajam  gopalim  ytviim),  the  word  Kcms  to  be 
an  epithet. 

**>  In  the  BbO^avatn  l'nruua,  ii.  8,  15  ff.,  tho  |ireecdine;  rente  of  oar  byien  so* 
paraphnucd  ss  follows  :  torttam  ISmuStJk  esrdisw  A  sitae.  sAeetwa  aaaswcA  eXt  y+t  | 
lf«rf.n/i  aeri'(«m  rtVlWM  vittuiim  aihituhfhMti  \  14,  SrmlMiX(ky*m  praUpen  Primt 


pcbcsiia. 


571 


dilation.  7.  This  victim,  Purusba  born  iu  the  beginning,  they  immo- 
lated on  the  sacrificial  grass ;  with  him  as  their  offering,  the  god*, 
Sidhyas,  and  Rishis  sacrificed.  8.  From  that  universal  oblation  were 
produced  curds  and  clarified  butter.  He  (Purusbn)  formed  those  aerial 
creature*,  and  the  animals,  both  wild  and  tame.  9.  From  tbat  uni- 
Terra]  sacrifice  sprang  the  hymns  culled  Rich  and  SAmnn,  tho  metres, 
and  the  Yajush.  10.  From  it  were  produced  horses,  and  ull  animals 
with  two  rows  of  teeth,  cows,  goats,  and  sheep.  11.  When  they 
divided  Purusba,  into  how  many  parts  did  they  distribute  him  ?  What 
was  bis  mouth  ?  What  were  his  arms  ?  What  were  called  his  thighs 
and  feet?  12.  Tho  Brahman  wea  his  mouth;*'  tho  Rejany*  became 
hit  arms;  the  Vaiiya  was  his  thighs;  the  Sudrn  sprang  from  his  feet. 
IS.  Tho  moon  was  produced  from  his  soul;  the  sun  from  his  eye; 
India  and  Agni  from  hia  mouth;  and  Vayu  from  his  breath.  14. 
From  hia  navel  came  the  atmosphere ;  from  his  head  arose  the  aky  { 
from  hia  feet  came  the  earth  ;  from  his  oar  thu  four  quarters :  so  they 
formed  the  worlda.     16.  When  the  gods,  in  performing  their  aacrifice, 

f*W  tka  pralapaty  own  |  hum  Viraj'att  pratspuu  ttjmXy  anlar  tahitj  puwvin  |  17. 
So  'nftttii/akk/tgiinyri,,  msrljam  «miim  y«4  atyayal  |  moAinanKo  lata  trahmam 
Purm/ituy*  dumlyntjiil)  |  18.  Ifijrt/it4  aarm~k>ivltiKt  /'«m«*  riht<tp*£t  tiJiJk  | 
amfxlam  Ju/umain  nMuyaA  IrinurMn-}  VAnyi  murJAat*  |  )9.  PUJat  trayo  rafiti 
tJkammn  apr>  ,'maiah  |  auliu  trr'/oAyrcJ  Ir  epara  ypA*nW*o  'rriiaJ-rratik  | 

20.  8rM  riehnkram*  uiAnun  *uan<imian*  ut.Ht  |  y*d  awidya  tAa  et«Vi  cka  Itmmkm 
tUAayairaya^  |  21.  Yatmnil  ««rfrvi  I'irud  ja/nt  bauUndriya^upHmakak  |  lad- 
draryam  mygnii  riium  gohhih  liiryah  iratapa*  I  If,  -  Panwha  himself  is  all  this 
which  baa  been,  •lioll  be,  and  U.  By  him  this  univcrt*  U  enveloped,  ud  yet  ha 
oocapiot  bat  a  span.  16 .  That  Priaa  [explained  by  the  cummeautur  u  Uic  »un],  while 
kfatdlilix  hu  own  iphc-rf.  kindlra  aim  that  which  ia  without  it.  8o.  too,  Punikha. 
while  kindling  Vlrij.kiiidlea  whatever  it  within  and  witli.u'  Usfc  IT.  II.  l.  ihrloed  of 
immortality  and  tacority,  aince  he  hu  trnacaadad  mortal  nutriment.  Bene*,  o 
Brahman,  this  grtatncu  of  IMnuhs  is  onaurpaaaable.  18.  The  wit*  know  all  thing*  to 
cii»t  in  the  fewt  [or  ijuarten]  of  Punuhs,  who  ha*  the  world*  fpr  fret  [or  quurten]  : 
immorUlity,  alcaBcdaow,  and  wrurity,  abide  in  tho  head*  nf  the  three-headed.  19.  Time 
quarters,  iii„  the  abodea  of  ascetics,  are  beyond  the  three  worlda ;  while  the  rmnaia- 
ing  quarter,  tho  aboda  of  hmeaholden  who  have  not  adopted  a  life  of  eehbacy.  is 
within  then.  20.  Pnrosha  hat  traversed  both  the  two  separate  paths,  that  of  eajevaamt 
and  ahatiiweot,  that  is,  of  ignoraneo  and  knowledge  ;  for  h«  w  the  receptacle  of  both. 
31.  From  htm  waa  produced  an  egg,  conaUtina;  of  the  elements  and  isnaii  aad  threat 
qualities.  Pnrasha  panetrated  through  ita  entire  aubatanec,  a*  the  *aa  wanaa  with 
hit  rays.*'  There  it  a  (rood  deal  shout  I'nmaha  in  the  Brihad  Aranyaka  Opaalaaed. 
See  pp.  217,  220-238.  233,  250.  232,  287.  of  Dr.  Kotr'i  English  trawl  i' 

**•   Kauihiukl  BrahaMca  Upaniihad,  iL  9,  quoted  in  the  «th  vol.  of  tint  work, 
p.  10,  not*. 


872 


PTRUSflA. 


bound  Purusha  as  a  victim,  there  wore  seven  pieces  of  wood  laid 
him  round  the  fire,  and  thrice  seven  pieces  of  fuel  employed.     1 
"With  sacrifice  the  gods  worshipped  the  Sacrifice.     These  were  tho 
institutions.     These  great  beings   attained  to  the  heaven  w 
gods,  thy  ancient  S&dhyas,  reside."  **• 

There  are  two  other  hymns  of  the  Rig-veda  besides  the 
Siikta  in  which  the  Deity  is  represented  as  either  the  agent,  the 
or  tho  subject  of  sacrifice.  In  x.  81,  5,  Visvakurmsn  U  said  to  sacri- 
fice himself,  or  to  himself;  and  in  verse  6,  to  offer  up  heaven  and 
earth.  And  in  x.  130  (where,  in  vorsc  2,  Pumnn  mny  bo  equivalent 
to  PuriiBhu),  it  is  said  (verso  3)  cither  that  the  gods  sacrificed  to  the 
[supreme]  god,  or  that  they  offered  him  np.4" 

In  the  Nirukta,  x.  26, SM  a  legend,  having  reforenco  to  R.V.  x.  81, 
quoted  to  tho  effect  that  Vigvaknrman,  the  son  of  Phuvarm,  first  of 
all  offered  up  all  worlds  in  a  $arv<imedka,  and  ended  by  sacrificing  him- 
Bi'lf.  And  in  the  Satap.  Br.  xiii.  7,  1,  1,  the  same  thing  is  related  of 
the  self-ex  istont  Hruhinu  himself,  who,  finding  that  ho  could  not 
by   auBtere   fervour  attain   to   tho   infinitude  which  he   desired,   re- 


: 


•*■  Tliii  vcrae  !•  =  i.  161.  i»0,  where  *ecSfiya»a'e  interpretation  and  MaLl Jhara'a on 
Y;ij  B.  31.  10:  ulwXir.  13,  M. 

**»  Tin-  rendering  in  Ibsas  paunge*  depends  on  the  exact  mhic  asngtml  to  Uw 
W9t6  /"/  Si  khl  4th  vol.  of  this  "Wort,  pp,  7-9.  The  Tsitu  8a»h.  A«ht.  «i  f.  il 
of   India  Uffi.ce  MS.,  *av«:    Ya/iitHa  c*i  IVajapalik  frijak  atrijaU   |   "  Pr»jf«pati 

tsriosj  beings  bj  sacrifice."    la  Um  Tuitt.  Br.  3,9,2:2,  l,  it  U  «id:  ••Tbp 
gods  ilanghtT  .1  pafi  as  a  Tictim.     Tin rj  tins  faitcd,  saying:  'In  Uw 

Boning  we  shall  niter  wuriiia.' "     frijapatim  mi  dtrah  pitaram  paittm  MSSSSS 
mulkupa  atabknota  |  (out  nlotkya  uphnuatt  |  prater  y*$hfAthmmkf  Hi. 

»>'  Vol.  It.  of  thin  work,  p.  7;  wo  al*o  p.  300;  und  MahJbburUa  S"flntrj».,  rmt 

•  tarupn    ijnhhiltrnh   twrtnmrJk*    mthtimukht  \  juknta   fmm-kku/nn  •    Imtkti- 

tSmunam  itrnand    \   "  The  omuiform  MaLudi-va  aacriflcvd  all  creaturta  ia  a  grtai 
all-oblution,  and   thra  offered  himself  by  himatdf."     In  tho  S'atap.  Br.   |j 
2.  it  ia  »aid  that  "  I*rajupBli  gate  bimaclf  to  the  gods,  and  became  thctr  aacrt- 
BtSji     For   vn'riHiMi    is   tho   food   of   the   Rods.     He   then   created  aacriflea  as  bis 
own  imago  (or  counterpart).  ■  nay  that  'PrnjApaii  is  muffles;'  fcr  he 

areatad  it  a*  hi*  »n  UBSSM  "  [t'lihi/ak  Prajapatir  almanmm  pftdad/ut  |  Yojma  km 
uham  ata  |  Yajao  hi  deranam  annam  |  3.  Sa  dnrbkyah  almaiuum  prwJSya  mtKm  trim 
atmtnah  prali/m'im  nsri/ala  yd  wnmm  |  lasmnd  <~ikuh  "  Prmjiipatir  ya/MA  ' 
lirMANO  Ay  rtam  pratuniM  atftjuta).  In  the  M.  Bh.  S'untip  9816,  alao,  it  is  raid 
that  l'nijupiiii  BjBSJSd  (lie  sacrificial  victim*,  and  wcrilice  itself,  and  with  it  warship. 
p«d  the  god«.  The  S'itap.  Br.  sayt,  cltawbart,  xiv.  3,  2,  1,  "  Thi*  which  U  aarrino* 
is  the  soul  of  all  being*  and  of  all  gods"  {n\rt*Mm  tmi  nkm  khvia*nm  —ran  Hal 
oWamiM  utmu  yad  yq/nak). 


PORCSHA. 


373 


solved  to  offer  up  himself  in  creuted  things,  and  crested  tilings  in 
himself,  and  having  done  this,  attained  to  pre-eminence,  self-efful- 
gence, and  supreme  dominion  (see  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  25). 

U  fa  i".  hi -Mi.  iii.it,  tin.'  author  ol  thii  pw  bid  not  rllifnrl  to  Ihtf 

clear  conception  of  tho  self-sufficiency  ond  omnipotence  of  n  self- 
existent  Being  which  later  Indian  writers  acquired."* 

In  tho  hymu  before  us  the  gods  are  distinctly  said  (in  verses  6,  7, 
and  16)  to  have  offered  up  Purusha  himself  as  a  victim.  And  in 
the  Bhagavata  Purona,  ii.  <3,  2l-'20,aM  which  is  a  paraphrase  of  this 
passage,  Brahma  is  made  to  say  that  he  derived  tho  materials  of  sacri- 
fice from  l'urusha'a  members,  and  immolated  that  l>eing,  the  lord 
himself. 

It  is  not  very  easy  to  seize  tho  precise  idea  which  is  expressed  in 
the  latter  part  of  this  singular  hymn,  the  Purusha  Sukta.  It  was 
evidently  produced  at  a  period  when  the  ceremonial  of  sacrifice  had 
become  largly  developed,  vrheu  great  virtue  was  supposed  to  resiiln  in 
its  proper  eclcbrution,  and  when  a  mystical  meaning  had  como  to  bo 
attached  to  the  various  materials  and  instrument*  of  the  ritual  as  well 
as  to  the  different  members  of  the  victim.  Penotrnted  with  a  sense  of 
the  sanctity  and  efficacy  of  the  rite,  and  familiar  with  all  its  details, 
the  priestly  poet,  to  whom  we  owe  the  hymn,  has  thought  it  no  pro- 
fanity to  represent  the  supreme  Purusha  himself  as  forming  the  victim, 
whoso  immolation  by  tho  agency  of  the  gods  gave  birth,  by  it*  trans- 
cendent power,  to  the  visible  universe  and  all  its  inhabitants. ,r 

The  two  following  verses  in  the  Vfijaaaneyi  Sanhita  refer  to  Purusha: 

xxxi.  18  (»  Svetusputara  TJpanishad,  lit.  8) :  rtdaiam  etam  Punuham 
mahtiniam  Adiiyn-earnaih  (dmasah  par m hit  |  tarn  na  riditri  'ft  mrxtyum 
ili  nUnyah  panth&k  cidyaU  ay an<iy a  |  "I  know  this  great  Purusha, 
resplendent  as  tho  sun,  above  the  darkness.     It  is  by  knowing  him 

***  The  word  smjmmMS  docs  not,  however,  always  signify  atlf-cxiatcnce  in  tho 
absolute  sense.  Thus  Ksa'yapa  is  in  A.V.  in.  03.  10,  called  myamHiu,  sad  is  yet 
said  to  have  sprung  from  KnUi  (time).     (St*  the  mbstction  on  Kula,  further  oa.) 

"*  Beo  the  4th  vol.  of  this  Work,  p.  9. 

**'  Dr.  Hang,  when  tripling  of  tho  importance  attached  to  sacrifice  by  ths  BnUi- 

i  remarks  (Prcf.  to  Ait  Ai.  p.  731 1  "The  creation  uf  the  world  itself  ws-- 

regarded  u  the  fruit  of  a  sacrifice  performed  by  the  Supreme  Being."'    If  ths  learned 

author  here  refers  U  ths  Puresha  80kta  it  would  ham  been  mora  exact  to  say  that 

•lion  was  regarded  as  ths  frait  of  an  immolation  of  the  Supreme  Being.    Bat 

hia  remark  mar  be  justified  by  the  other  passages  I  have  riled. 


87-1 


PTJRUSHA. 


that  a  man  overpasses  death.  There  is  no  other  road  to  go/"**  (The 
Purujha  Sukt*  occupies  verses  1-16  of  the  «ame  section  in  which  this 
Terse  is  found.) 

xxxii.  2 :  tarvi  nmnhoh  jojnin  tidyutah  Punuiai  t4hi  |  naimam 
flrdtiram  na  tiryaneham  na  maiihyn  parijngralhat  |  '*  All  winkings  of 
tho  eye  have  sprung  from  Purusha,  the  resplendent  No  one  has 
embraced  him  cither  above,  or  below,  or  in  the  middle."  •*• 

The  A.V.  contains  a  long  hymn  (x.  2)  on  tho  subject  of  Purusha, 
which  does  not  throw  much  light  on  the  conception  of  his  character, 
but  contains  a  number  of  curious  ideas.  The  Deity  being  conceived 
and  described  iu  this  hymn  as  the  Man,  or  Male  (Purusha) — the  great 
archetype  and  impersonation  of  tbnt  active  energy  of  which  men  arn 
the  feeble  representatives  upon  earth — tho  poet  has  been  led  to  im- 
agine the  object  of  his  adoration  as  invested  with  a  visible  form,  lad 
with  members  analogous  to  those  of  the  human  frame;  and  ho  than 
goes  on  to  speculate  on  the  agency  by  which  tho  different  portions  of 
Purutha's  body  could  hove  boon  constructed,  and  the  source  from 
which  he  could  have  derived  the  various  attributes  through  which 
fonnod  tho  universe,  and  ordained  the  conditions  under  which  i! 
several  departments  exist.  Tho  minute  questions  regarding  the  mem- 
bers of  Purusha  with  which  the  hymn  opens  may  have  been  suggested 
to  the  author  by  an  observation  of  the  curious  ■tmctow  of  the  human 
body,  und  by  the  wonder  which  that  obsurvntiun  had  occasioned. 
Throughout  the  hymn  Purusha  is  not  represented  as  a  self-existent, 
self-sufficient  Being,  but  as  dependent  on  other  gods  for  his  various 
powers  and  attributes.  The  details  are  too  tedious,  and  in  some  places 
too  obscure,  to  admit  of  my  giving  them  in  full,  but  I  ahull  state  the 
substance,  and  adduce  tho  most  important  ports  more  or  lest  in 
tenso.     The  hymn  begins  thus : — 


xn 

: 

m- 


n  ex- 
leavm 


*•»  Compare  A.V.  rii.  S3,  7 1  "Ascending  from  the  darkness  to  tie  highest  hearts 
we  have  reached  the  son.  a  god  among  the  gods,  the  uppermost  light"  (««f 
fiiMOMj  pari  rohanto  tinium  vllamam  |  oVm*  dtutri  lurymm  agatm*  jfoti 
nam  |  compare  11. V.  i.  60,  10,  quoted  above  In  p.  ICO). 

**•  The  following  verse,  given  in  tho  Xinilcta,  ii.  3,  is  from  th*  S'vrtl/r.tarn  Up- 
aniehad,  iii.fi:"  This  entire  unirtme  is  filled  by  that  Purusha  to  irhom  there  is 
nothing  rmprrinr,  from  whom  tlurc  is  nothing  different,  thin  whoa  no  ana  in  note 
mitiulo  or  mora  vast,  and  who  alone,  fixed  like  a  tree,  abides  is  the  iky"  («*smjr 
pnrtm  napartm  uti  ktnekid  yamad  nan'iyo  na  jynyti'rti  JcaJcMil  |  triktkdl} 
ilaldho  din  ruAMii.'y  tkat  ttn+iam  pitrnam  Puru>S*na  Marram). 


PUEDSHA. 


375 


1.  Kena  pSrthn}  dhhritt  Punuhatya  ktna  mnmtam  tambhritam  kena 

gulphau  |  kenfinguh  peianlk  kena  khAni ....  f  2.  Katm&n  nu  gulphiie 

adharav  alrimann   tuh(klwmUiv  vtiarau   Punuhatya  |  ....  4.  A'ati 

deeHh  katamt  it  lUan  yt  uro  grlcdi  chikyuh  Puruihasya  |  kali  ttanau 

vyadadhuh  k<ih  kaphaudau  kali  tkandkdn  kali  priehfir  aehinran   |  6. 

Kah  itpta  kh&ni  vi  tatarda  firthani  karniiv  imau  nutike  chakthanl  tnu- 

kham   |    ....  9.  PriyupriySni  battula  tcapnam  tambadha-tandryah.   | 

&nandi>n   ugro   nanduiki  eha  JuumAd  eahati  Puruthah   |  6rtir  an 

nirritik   kuto  nu   Purutht  'malih   \  rAdhih   tamridhih   \  .  .  .  .  12.  Ko 

atmin  rtipatn  adaihdt  ko  makmSnam  eha  ndma  eha  |  jutum  ko  atmin  ko 

kttum  kai  eharilrAni  Pinuht  |    13.  Ko  am.in  pianam  atayat  ko  apunam 

ty&nmn  «  |  tamAuam  atmin  fa  deeo  adhi  iiirdya  Purutht  |  14.  Ko  atmin 

yaj'nam  adadhad  tko  devo  adhi  Puruthe  |  ko  aimin  tatyam  ko  'nritaA  kuto 

mrityuh  kuto  'mn'tam   |    15.   Kb  atmai  tOtah  paryadkilt  ko  atySyur 

akalpayat   \  balam  ko  atmai  prilyachhat  ko  atyOkalpayaj  Jaraai  |   16. 

Ktn&po  antatanuta  kendhar  akarod  rueht  |  lukatam  ktna  anraindha  krma 

tiyambhavum   dad)*  |    17.  Ko  atmin  r*lo  nyadadh&t    lantur  uloyalom 

Hi  |   medhdm  ko  atminn  adhyauAat  .  .  .  .  |    18.    Kena    imum    bhumim 

aurnot  ktna  paryabharad  ditam  \  ken&bhi  mahnd  pnnal&n  kena  karmQni 

Puruthah  |  24.  Keneyan  bkimir  tthila  ktna  dyaur  utlari  hitd  |  k«n<dam 

urdheam  tiryak  eha  antarikthaSt  tyacho  hitam  |  25.  BrakmanA  bknmir 

rihitd  Brahma  dyaur  uttard  hita   \   Brahmtdam  irdhraA  tiryak  ek,t 

antarihhtit  ryaeho  hitam   |  .  .  .  .  28.    Urdhto   nu  trithfdt   tiryafi  nu 

tfithftih  ian.uk  diiah  Purutkah  a  babhuea  |  puram  yo  Brakmano  ceia 

yatylk  Puruthah  uchyalt  |  29.  Yo  tai  tain  Brakmano  vtda  ampttndvfi- 

tAm  puram  |  latmai  Brahma  eha  brdhmAi  eha  ehakthuk  pr&nam  pro/dm 

daduh  |  30.  Ka  tai  tarn  ehahhur  jahdli  na  pr/lno  jaratah  purd  \  ptuaik 

yo  Brakmano  vtda  yaty/lh  Puruthak  uchyatt  |  31.  Atkt&ckakrS  naca- 

ioAri  dtvQndm  pur  ayodhyn  \  iatyam  kiranyayah  koish  ttargah  Jyotukd- 

rritah  |  32.  Tatmin  hiranyayt  koit  tryart  tripratitkfkitt  |  tatmin  yad 

yaktham  utmamat  lad  tai  brahma-rido  tiduh  |   38.  PrubhrSjamuwim 

kturinlm  yaiatu  tamparUjitSm   \  puram  hiranyoylm  Brahma  <Snr#*'<Z- 

par&jilam  \ 

"  1.  By  whom  were  the  heels  of  Punish*  produced  ?  By  whom  wo» 
bit  fle«h  brought  together  ?  By  whora  were  hit  ancles,  by  whom  were 
hu  fingvre  and  hit  muidc*,  mndo?  By  whom  tho  aporturoa  of  hia 
body  ? .    . .  2.  From  what  did  they  construct  his  anclea  below  and 


376 


PTJEVBEA 


lis  knees  above?"  After  similar  question  about  hie  legs,  thighs, 
trunk,  etc.,  the  author  proceeds:  "4.  How  many  and  who  were  the 

pods  who  joined  tnpvili  r  tin  chert  and  the  neck  of  Purusha?  Jiow 
many  fanned  his  breasts,  who  his  elbows  ?  (?)  How  many  connected 
hi»  shoulders  and  ribs?  ....(>.  Who  opined  l.l  uperturvs  in 

his  bond,  these  cars,  nostrils,  eyes,  and  mouth?  .  .  .  ."  "  Whence," 
oaks  the  poet  (verse  9),  "does  the  glorious  Purusha  bring  many  thing* 
pleasant  and  unpleasant,  sleep,  fear,  fatigue,  and  various  kinds  of 
enjojmcuts?  10.  How  do  suffering,  distress,  evil,  as  well  as  success 
nnd  opulence,  exist  in  Purusha  ?  . . . .  12.  Who  assigned  to  him  form,*" 
magnitude,  name,*"  motion,  and  consciousness,  (13)  and  what  god  pot 
into  liim  the  different  vital  airs?  14.  What  one  god  placed  in  him 
sacrifice,  truth,  and  falsehood?  Whence  come  death  and  immortality? 
1 '>.  Who  elulhcd  him  with  a  garment  ?  Who  created  his  life  ?  Who  g*vo 
him  strength  and  speed?  16.  Through  whom  did  he  spread  out  the 
water*,  cause  the  day  to  shine,  kindle  the  dawn,  bring  on  the  twilight? 
17.  Who  pi  iced  in  him  seed,  that  tho  thread  (of  being)  might  be  con- 
tinued ?  Who  imparted  to  him  understanding  ?  ....  18.  Through 
whom  did  he  envelope  the  earth,  surround  (or  transcend)  the  sky, 
aurpaea  by  his  greatness  tho  mountains  and  oil  created  thing*?  24. 
By  whom  was  this  earth  made,  and  the  aky  placed  above  ?  By  whom 
was  this  expanse  of  atmosphere  raised  aloft  and  stretched  across  ?  26. 
The  earth  was  raude  by  Brahma,  and  Brahma  is  placed  above  as  the 
sky.  Brahma  is  the  expanse  of  atmosphere,  raised  uloft  and  stretched 
across.  28.  Purusha,  who  is  on  high,  has  pervaded  all  the  regions 
which  arc  extended  uloft  and  across  (quoted  with  variations  in  Taitt. 
Ar.  i.  27,  3,  p.  168).  Ho  who  knows  tho  city  {pur)  of  Brahma  from 
which  I'urmha  is  named,  (29)  who  knows  that  city  of  Brahma,  invested 
with  immortality;  to  him  Bruhma  aud  Bruhmu'a  sons  have  gives  sight, 

•*>  Here,  as  above  noticed  (p.  10R.  note),  we  have  the  mm*  sad  ripm  of  ths 
Vedsa tists.  Compare  Tsitt.  BcfiB.  ii.  -'.  7,  1  :  Prajipatih  prtyah  MTV*"  I  '** 
fitAfah  uunatKkjuhy*H  (in  p.  444  the  word  is  printed  MnuuVi'iayaa)  |  fa*  rfijSMya 
anupritiiat  \  ItutnaJ  vJinh  "rZpath  toi  I'fjuynlir"  >li  |  fu*  M-n-i  'mtprvtiiti  | 
ttuinad a/iur  "nama  mi  PrajUjuttir"  Hi  \  "I'mjapata  created  hung  being*.  Tb«T> 
however,  were  in  a  shapeless  state.  lie  entered  into  them  with  form,  lit  nee.  man 
ssy  '  Praj'ipsti  i«  form.'  Hi  ontrred  into  tbsm  with  nuine.  Henos,  men  «»jr  '  I*r»j«. 
pati  in  name'  "  Compare  the  same  Urfiiimans,  Hi.  10,  6,  1,  sod  iiL  14,  7,  6.  Se« 
M.  L»nglm»'  note  on  tlio  word  noun  in  H.V.  x.  73,  6,  vol-  ir.  p.  4ft3  of  bis 
lution  of  the  Ri^-vcds. 


PUBUSHA. 


377 


and  breath,  and  progeny.  30.  Neither  sight  nor  breath  abandons 
before  [the  term  of  natural]  decoy  the  man  who  knows  the  city  of 
Brahma,  from  which  Puruaha  is  named.  31.  Within  that  impregnable 
city  of  tho  gods  (compare  puram  d^tdudni  amrilam  hiramyam,  A.V.  v. 
28,  II ;  and  Mahubharuta,  xiv.  987  rT.),  which  has  eight  circles  (com- 
pare A.V.  ri.  4,  22)  und  nine  gates,  there  exists  a  golden  receptacle, 
celestial,  invested  with  light.  32.  Those  acquainted  with  Brahma 
(divine  science,  or  the  Deity)  know  that  living  being  which  reside*  in 
this  golden  receptacle  with  three  spoke*,  and  triple  supports.*"  33. 
Brahma  has  entered  into  tho  impregnable  gulden  city,  resplendent, 
bright,  invested  with  renown." 

In  the  Satap.  Br.  xiii.  6,  1,  1  (see  vol.  iv.  of  this  Work,  p.  25),  tho 
word  Ifuriruou  is  coupled  with  Purushn,  und  it  is  said  that  this  being 
desired  to  surpass  all  beings,  and  become  himself  tho  entire  universe, 
and  that  ha  accotuji  lulled  his  object  by  celebrating  the  Purutdiuaicdha 
sacrifice.  Punish u  Nuxiiytma  is  tignin  mentioned  in  tho  same  firnh- 
msna  (xii.  3,  4,  1)  as  receiving  instruction  from  Projnpati :  Puruthaik 
ha  Narayanam  Prajupatir  uracka  " yajtuca  yaj'tna"  iti  |  m  Ad  vratha 
"'ynjawa  yajatra'  Hi  tj&va  tvarn  m<im  6ttha  \  trir  ayahhi  |  Vnarak 
prQtah-taraneno  ayuh  lluir&h  mUd/iyandituna  utanewt  Adity'n  tritiya- 
tarantxa  atha  mama  yajna-ttlttc  rva  ynjna-tiiftiiv  tut  aJmm  dsa  "  ifi  | 
m  ha  urr'icha  " yajatta  rra  |  ahaih  tai  U  lad  rahhyfimi  yatkfi  U  ukikuni 
manir  iva  iQlrt  otdni  bharufiyanti  idtram  iva  rd  manue  "  iti  \  "  Praja< 
pati  said  to  Puruaha  Karuyaija,  '  Sacrifice,  ncrifloo.'  Ho  replied, 
'Thou  sayest  to  me,  Sju -rificc,  sacrifice.  I  have  sacrificed  thrice.  By 
the  morning  oblation  the  Yasus  came,  by  the  mid-day  oblation  the 
Kudnu  came,  and  by  the  third  oblation  the  Adityas  come  to  my  place 
of  sacrifice,  where  I  was.'  Prnjjputi  rejoined,  'Sacrifice;  I  will  till 
thee  how  thy  hymns  shall  be  strung  like  a  gem  on  a  thread,  or  as  a 
thread  in  a  gem.'  '* 


•"  Oae  line  of  A.V.  i.  8,  43  (quoted  la  th*  next  wnaeetum),  If  identical  wita  cat 
tine  of  thw  itim,  though  lh«  «tber  tin*  U  dtUVroot.  The  wttol*  rum  tbu*  :  "  Th* 
kaower*  of  brakma  know  toot  living  being  which  roidu  in  the  lutu*  with  nine 
inimtnl  with  tho  three  qualitio* "  (tribhir  yuntbhir  nrrifm).  Roth,  a.v- 
FOP,  translate*  the  last  three  words  by  "triply  enreloped,"  and  refer*  in  aupport 
of  thi*  atoM  to  verm  21  sad  3x  of  th*  hymn  before  tu.  and  to  Chh IndV 

i  vtfi.  1, 1.    It  i>  poaaible,  however,  that  ther*  miy  b*  here  *  flrrt  rateaace 
W  th*  three  jtmu  aitawartli  *o  ccktwatod  is  Indian  philo»v**iicaJ  aptcnlatioo. 


378 


8KAMMIA  AND  BRAHMA. 


(7)  Skambka  and  Brahma. 

In   tho  following  hymn  of  the  A.V.  (x.  7)  the  Supreme 
appears  to  bo  celebrated  under  the  appellation  of  Skambha  (or  Bop- 
port)."1    Though  it  is  rather  tedious,  I  shall  translate  it  nearly  in 
full,  as  these  undent  guesses  after  truth  no  doubt  contain  the  germ  of 
•omo  of  the  later  speculations  on  the  samo  topics.     In  the  fast  part 
(verses  1-6,  10-12)  Skambha  is  considered  (like  Purusba,  with  whoa 
he  teems  to  be  identified,  verse  15)  as  a  vast  embodied  being,  co- 
extensive with  tho  universe,  and  comprehending,  in  his  several  mem- 
bers, not  only  the  different  part*  of  the  material  world,  but  a  raricty 
of  abstract  conceptions,  such  as  uusterc  fervour  (iapot),  faith,  truth, 
and  the  divisions  of  time.     Ho  is  distinct  from,  and  superior  to,  Praja- 
pati,  who  founds  the  worlds  upon  him  (Terses  7,  8,  17).     The  thirty- 
three  gods  are  comprehended  in  him  (verses  13,  22,  and  27),  and  arose 
out  of  nonentity,  which  forms  his  highest  member,  and,  as  well  as 
entity,  is  embraced  within  him  (verses  10,  25).     The  gods  who  form 
port  of  him,  as  branches  of  a  tree  (verse  38),  do  him  homage,  aad 
bring  him  tribute  (verse  39).     He  is  identified  with  Indra  (in 
29  and  30) ;  and  perhaps  also  with  tho  highest  Brahma,  who  is 
tioncd  in  verses  32-3-1,  36,  uud  iu  the  first  verso  of  tho  next  hymn, 
x.  8,  I.     In  verse  36,  however,  this  Brahma  is  represented  aa  being 
born  (or,  perhaps,  developed)  from  toil  end  tapeti,  whilst  in  x.  8,  1,  tho 
attributes  of  tho  Supremo  Deity  are  assigned  to  him.     In  compositions 
of  this  age,  however,  we  are  not  to  expect  very  accurate  or  rigorous 
thinking,  or  perfect  consistency : — 

1.  Kcuminn  ange  tapo  osy&dhi  luhfkaii  ktuninn  angt  fitam  sty  a  sdky 
Cihitain  |  kva  vralam  ha  iraddhu  'tya  tithffuiti  katminn  nngt  tatyam  «*yu 
pratuJifhitam  |  2.  Katmid  ungild  dipgaU  agnir  asya  ktutndd  angdt 
pavatt  malar  idea  |  katmtld  angdd  vi  mimlte  'dhi  ehandram&h  makak 
Slambhanja  mimCuia  angam  |  3.  Katminn  angt  luhlhali  bhdmir  wya 
kcuminn  angt  tithfhati  antariMiam  \  katminn  angt  tishfkati  tiiifci  dyauk 
huminn  ange  lukfhali  uliarath  ditah  \  4.  Kca  prepta*  dipyaU  fir/tea 
agnih  ha  preptan  pavatt  ntutanhd  \  galra  prepumlir  abhi  ganli  dtritak 

*"  This  word  occurs  la  R.V.  viii.  41, 10 :  n  dkSm«  fimytm  mm  yak  iktn- 
bkma  r»  rodati  aja  na  dyain  adkarayat  \  "  lit  formed  the  first  abode,  be  who  with  s 
prop  (jimmtia)  held  apart  the  two  worlds,  like  the  unburn." 


8KAXBHA  AND  BEAIIMA. 


.179 


Skamlham  tarn  bruhi  katamah  niil  era  tab  |  6.  Eva  ordhamdtdh  kta 
yanti  mdttih  tatiieaUarena  taha  tamviddndh  \  yatra  yanti  ritaeo  yatra 
drtavdh  Skambham  tarn  ArtfAi  —  |  6.  Kta  prtptantl  yutall  viritpr 
ahortltrt  dratatah  taihviddnt  \  yatra  preptantir  abhiyanti  upah  Skam- 
bham— |  7.  Tannin  ttabdhrd  Prajdpatir  hkitn  tarvdn  adh&rayat  | 
Skambham — |  8.  Tat  paramain  aramam  yach  cha  madhyamam  Prajd- 
patih  tasrijt  viharnpam  |  kiyatd  Skambhah  pracivria  tatra  yam  *a 
prdtriial  kiyal  tad  bahhilva  |  9.  Kiyatd  Skambhah  pratrite&a  bhdtam 
kiyad  bhacithyad  anu,  diaye  'sga  |  tkam  yad  angam  akrin.il  tahatradhd 
kiyatd  Skambhah  prariceia  laira  |  10.  Yatra  hkCmi  cha  koidmi  cha  apt 
brahma  jandh  vidvh  |  aiach  cha  yatra  tachchdntah  Skambham  tarn  brSki 
katamah  it  id  tea  tab  J  11.  Yatra  tapah  pardkramya  tratam  dhdrayaty 
uttartm  |  fitam  tha  yatra  iraddhd  cha  dpo  brahma  tamJhitd  Skambham 
— |  12.  Tatmi'n  bhdmir  antariktham  dyaur  yatmium  adhydhitd  \  yat- 
rtignii  thandramdh  tdryo  rata*  tiththanti  QrpitA  Skambham — |  13. 
Yatya  trayattrimiad  dttdh  amy*  tartt  tamdhitdh  \  Skambham — |  14. 
Tatra  fithayah  pralhamajdk  riehah  ium  yajur  nuihl  |  ekarthir  yatmium 
drpitah  Skambham—]  15.  Yalnlmrilam  cha  mrityui  cha  Purutht  'dhi 
tamihiU  |  iamudro  yatya  nddyah  Purutha  'dhi  tan&hita  Skambham — | 
16.  Tatya  chatatrah  pradiio  nCdyat  tiihfhamti  prathamdh  \  yajno  yatra 
pardlrdntah  Skambham — |  17.  Tt  Purutha  Brahma  vidut  It  viduh 
Paramt*h(kinam  |  yo  ttda  ParamethfhinaM  yai  cha  ttda  Prajupatim  | 
fytttham  y»  bruhmanam  vidut  U  Skambham  anu  tamciduh  |  18.  I 
tiro  Vaiitunarai  chakthur  Angiraso  'bhacan  |  angSmi  yatya  Yitatak 
Skambham — |  19.  Yatya  brahma  mukham  Shur  jtlmdm  madhukaidm 
uta  |  virdjam  udho  yatyOhuh  Skambham — |  20.  Yatmdd  ri<h«  apdta- 
kthan  yajur  yatmdd  apdkatkam  |  lumdni  yatya  hmdni  atharvdngirato 
mukham  |  Skambham — I  21.  Atachehhdkhum  pratithfhamtlm  paramam 
ivajamdh  viduh  |  uU  tan  mamyatitt'tan  yt  U  idkh&m  up&taU  |  22. 
TalrSditydi  cha  Jiudrdi  cha  Vatatai  tha  tamdhitdh  |  bhatam  cha  yatra 
bhacyam  cha  tawu  Ukdh  pratiththitdk  |  Skambham—  \  23.  Tatya  tra- 
yattrimtad  dtrdh  nidkiim  ratthatUi  tartadd  \  nidhtm  tarn  adya  ko  ttda 
yam.  dttdk  abhirakthatha  \  24.  Yatra  deiSh  brahmarido  Brahma  jy**k- 
fham  updtatt  |  y»  mi  tdn  eidySl  pratyaktham  ta  brahma  ceditd  tyOl  | 
25.  Brihanio  ndm*  U  dtrdh  y*  'totah  parijajnirt  \  tkam  tad  anyam 
Skambkatya  atad  dhuh  para  januh  |  2G.  Yatra  Skambhah  pra/anayan 
purdmam   tyatartayat    \   tkam  tad  angam    Skambkatya  pur  doom  mm* 


B80 


8KAMBIIA  AXD  B1UUMA. 


tantrid*k  |  27.  Yaiya  trayattrimiad  d«tAk  artge  gStrd  vi  bhtjirt  \ 
tan  vat  trayattrimiad  dttAn  eh  brahmavido  tidvh  |  28.  Iliramya- 
garbham  paramam  anatyudyap*  j'anAk  riduh  \  Skambhat  (ad  agrt  pru- 
tinrhtid  hiramyam  Uki  antara  |  29.  Skambh*  lokuh  Skambh*  fapah 
Skambhe  'dhy  ritam  ahilam  \  Skambha  U&  t*da  pratyaktham  Indre 
tarcafh  namAkitam  |  30.  Indre  lokAh  Indre  tapah  Indre  'dky  ft  Urn 
,i  |  Indram  (Indra  ?)  U>S  ttda  pratyaktham  Skambh*  iimif 
praliihihitam  |  31.  NamnA  mima  johavUi  pitrA  sQryAt  purotkatah  | 
yad  ajah  prathamaHi  tambabhata  ta  ha  tat  ttarAjyam  iyaya  yarmAn 
nani/at  param  atti  bhutam  |  32.  Yatya  bhumih  prama  anfanitham 
vtotlarcm  \  divafn  yai  ehalrc  mUrdhanaih  tatmai  jytthfhAya  Brakmaa* 
tiamah  |  33.  Yatya  Sdryai  ehakthui  chandramAi  cha  punmr  navak  { 
A'jnim  yai  chukre  Atyam  tatmai — |  31.  Yatya  tAiah  pramapOnam 
chakehur  A  nyirato  'bhacan  \  diio  yai  chakrc  prajnAnU  tatmai  jyetfhAya 
BnHjMgt  namuh  |  35.  Skambho  dadh&ra  dyAiA-prithiti  ubke  ime  Skam- 
Uw  dadhura  urv  anlariktham  \  Skambho  dadhSra  pradiiah  thaf  urrlk 
Skambhah  idaih  ciivam  bhucanam  A  vivtia  |  36.  Yah  iramtit  tetpato  jAlo 
lokutt  aarv&n  tamutiaie  |  Soman*  yai  chair*  hralam  taemai  jyeehthAya 
Brahma nt  namah  |  37.  Katham  rifo  ntlayali  katham  na  ramatt  manak  | 
lin)  njhili  fitftm  prtptantlr  nrfayanti  kadAekana  |  38.  ilahad  yaktham 
lfiiitiiiui.ii/a  madhye  tapaii  krGnlafh  talilatya  pri'hfhe  \  taemin  tr«y«*!t 
ye  u  Are  cha  dsiuh  rrikuhatya  ikttndhak  paritah  tea  iakk&h  |  39.  Yatmai 
ha»lAbhynm  pAdnbhyAm  vOehil  irolrena  thakthiahO  |  yatmai  dttAh  tada 
balim  prayachhanli  timite  'mitam  \  Skambhani  tern  brdhi  katamah  trid 
era  ta  \  40.  Apa  tanya  hatam  tamo  nyarrittnh  ta  pApmanA  \  tert4mi 
tatmin  jyotliiuhi  ydni  trlgi  JPrqjApatau  |  41.  Yo  retatam  kiranii 
tithfhantafn  talila  ceda  \  ta  vui guhyah  Prajupalih  | 

"1.  In  what  member  of  hi*  does  austere  fervour  stanil  ?  In 
which  is  the  ceremonial  contained?  In  what  parts  do  religions  ot 
scrvnnre  and  faith  abide  ?  In  what  member  is  truth  established  ? 
From  whst  member  does  Apni  blaze?  From  which  docs  M  atari -si 
(the  wind)  blow  ?  From  which  does  the  moon  pursue  her  course, 
traversing  the  mighty  body  of  Ukamuha?  3.  lu  what  member  do« 
the  earth  reside?  In  which  tho  atmosphere?  la  which  is  the  iky 
placed,  and  iu  which  the  space  above  the  sky  ?  4.  Whither  tending, 
does  the  upward  fire  blnte ?  Whither  tending,  does  the  wind  blow? 
Tell  who  is  that  Skanibha  to  whom  tho  paths  tend,  and  into  whom 


**ysy*& 

'      In 


TAUHTTA    AJJJ)    BBABMJm 


381 


they  enter.     5.  Whither  tending,  do  the  half-months  and  the  months, 
In  concert  with  the  year,  proceed  ?     Tdl  who  is  that  Skambha  to 
whom  the  seasons  and  other  divisions  of  the  year  advance.    6.  Whither 
tending,  do  the  two  young  females  of  diverse  aspects,  the  dny  ond  tho 
night,  hasten  in  unison?    Tell  who  is  that  Skambhn  to  whom  the 
waters  tend  and  go  ?     7.  Who  is  that  Skambha  on  whom  Prajapati  has 
supported  and  established  all  the  world*  ?     8.  How  far  did  Skambha 
penetrate  into  that  highest,  lowest,  and  middle  universe,  comprehend- 
ing all  forms,  which  Prnj&pati  created?    And  how  much  of  it  was 
there  which  ho  did  not  penetrate?     9.  How  far  did  Skambha  pene- 
trate into  the  past?  and  how  much  of  the  future  is  contained  in  hia 
receptacle?     How  for  did  Skambha  penetrate  into  that  one  member 
which  ho  separated   into  a  thousand  parts  ?     10.  Tell  who  is  that 
Skambhn  iu  whom   men   recognize   tho  worlds  and   receptacles,   tho 
waters  and  divine  thought  [us  existing],  and  withiu  whom  are  non- 
entity and  entity;  (11)  in  whom  austere  fervour  {tape*),  energizing, 
maintains  its  highest  action  (rmh),  in  whom  the  ceremonial,  faith, 
the   waters,  and   divino  science   aro  comprehended;    (12)   in  whom 
earth,  atmosphere,  sky,  fire,  moon,  sun,  and  wind  are  placed;  (13)  in 
whose  body  all  the  thirty-three  gods  are  contained  ;**  (14)  in  whom 
the  earliest  Rishis,  the  Rik,  the  Saman,  the  Vajush,  the  earth,  and  the 
one  Rishi  reside;  (15)  that  Purusha,  in  whom  immortality  and  d< 
aro  comprehended ;  who  has  tho  ocean  within  him  as  his  veins;  (16) 
that  Skambha,  of  whom  the  four  regions  are  the  primeval  arteries,  and 
in  whom  sacrifice  displays  its  energy.     17.  They  who  know  the  divine 
essence  (brahma)  in  Punisho,  know  Pararaeshthin.,M     Ho  who  knows 
Faramc-xlithin,  and  he  who  knows  Prajapati —  they  who  know  the 
highest  divine  mystery  {brahmana) m  know  in  consequence  Skambha. 
18.  Tell  who  is  that  Skambha  of  whom  Vaisvfinara  (Agni)  is  the  head, 
the  Angirnsea  tho  eye,  and  the  Yatus  (demons)  are  the  limbs ;  (10)  of 
whom  they  any  divine  knowledge  {brahma)  is  tho  mouth,  the  Madhu- 
kasa m  the  tongue,  and  tho  Virej  the  ndder ;  (20)  from  whom  they 

*a  &«c  Or.  H«ug'»  Emciv  on  the  iscttd  Uuifruigo  of  tbe  Pnnccs,  p.  233. 

••*  Soo  af  Pr»j«r*ii  according  to  S'stap.  Dr.  si.  1.  6,  14,  1«;  giro  saerlflce  to 
Prajapati,  Taitt.  S.  i.  6.  9,  2.    See  Oomn.  there,  p.  914. 

»«*  Sec  verse*  20,  33,  and  37  of  A.V.  x.  8,  to  be  quoted  below. 

*■*  I  am  indebted  to  ProfoMcr  Anfrrcht  far  so  eipUrwtinn  of  thi*  ward,  sad  «• 
indication  of  tvme  fang**  in  wbicb  it  U  mentioned.     In  It V.  i.  i"J,  9,  una  i.  167,  4, 


S82 


SKAMBHA  A.\D  BRAHMA. 


hewed  off  the  Kik  verses,  and  cut  off  the  Yejos ;  of  whom  the 
verses  are  the  hairs,  and  the  Athnrvangirasea  (i.t.  the  Atharva-veda) 
the  mouth.**1  21.  Men  regard  tho  brooch  of  nonentity,1**  which  w 
prominent,  as  if  it  were  paramount;  and  inferior  men,  aa  many  aa 
worship  thy  branch,  regard  it  aa  an  entity.  22.  Tell  who  u»  that 
Skiimbha  in  whom  the  Adityaa,  Rudras,  and  Vn*u*  are  contained,  on 
whom  the  pnst,  tin-  future,  and  all  world*  are  supported;  (23)  whose 
treasure  the  thirty-three  gods  continually  guard.  Who  now  know* 
the  treasure  which  ye  guard,  o  gods  ?  24.  Where  the  gods,  the 
knowcrs  of  sacred  science  (brakmd),  worship  the  highest  divine  eaatnes 
(brahma) ; — the  priest  (brahtna)  who  knows  these  [goda]  (ace  to  <**• 
Mill  be  a  sage.  25.  Mighty  indeed  are  those  gods  who  have  sprung 
from  nonentity-  Mi-u  m»y  that  that*  nonentity  is  one,  the  highest, 
«f  of  Skambha  (compare  v.  10,  above).  2G.  Where  Skambha 
generating,  brought  the  Ancient  {jutriina)  into  existence,  they  con- 
hi'l.i  that  that  Ancient  is  ono  member  of  Skambha,  (27)  in  whose 
members   the   thirty- three   goda  found   their   several  bodies.     Borne 


the  ifrfan  am  mid  to  have  n  hnnied  whip,  kmia  nWAisaiarT,  with  which  ihrj  are  ba» 
•ought  to  sprinkle  tin-  worshippers,  or  their  sacrifioe.  The  Mantis  are  also  saM,  hi 
:.  iiml  i.  las,  4,  to  tinro  whip*,  though  they  are  not  said  to  be  koauad. 
In  the  Nif-lmritu,  however,  the;  sonic  of  speech  i«  ascribed  to  Kuia ;  and  a  mystical 
i  ■!  \*  aito  Hmijpml  to  the  word  rum/An,  boner,  which  Dadbyanch  is  ax*!, 
Ii.V.  1.11ft,  12,  and  i.  1 17,  22,  to  bare  made  known  to  tho  Ai'Tin*.  This  is  expttuaoi 
shew,  two  passages  ss  meaning  that  he  garo  them  a  Br&hmsna  inaal 
ing  the  M.Miliiniilyi ;  imd  lUhTdhara,  on  Taj  B.  7.  Il.njidcrstands  the  *•*■  aaarfi*- 
uiati  us  referring  tu  this  mystic  lore.  This  Mmlliukiu'l  ii  etlebrstad  at  — ■"" Mf 
length  in  A.V.  iz.  I,  whera  it  is  taid  that  she  "sprang  from  th*  sky.  the  btstb,  ska 
sir,  i  In'  wo,  Gn.',  and  wind,"  and  that  "all  orcaturta,  worshipping  b«r  who  dwells  is 
immortality,  rejoice  in  their  bracts"  (tfiru*  ipVAirySA  antariiiial  mmttirU  ayarr 
ral'ld  trtnj/inkui'fj  ri  juj'u  \  lam  ehSyitrti  amrittn  rlWinSm  hrtMhih  pntjik  a»«ri 
nai./iiiKli  Amviih).  In  rent*  3,  10,  she  is  said  tt  bt  MM  "hrilliuit  iruut-daiujaStr 
of  the  Mitruts"  [Marutam  ufrn  naptih),  and  in  \ene  4,  to  be  the  "mother  at  th* 
Adityiu,  tbt  daughter  of  the  Yaw,  the  life  of  crtatnraa,  and  tho  wtra  at  isosaor- 
tality '  tigonom  d*h>ta  Vtuunam  pratyh  prtjanam  amntuty*  notl 

•*'  Compare  A.V.  ix.  6,  1  ;  '"He  who  clearly  knows  Brahma,  of  whom  the  mate- 
rials  of  sacrifice  nro  tho  joints,  the  Rik-rersa  are  the  backbone,  the  Siara-Teraea  Ik* 
hair*,  the  Yajus  is  said  to  be  the  heart,  and  the  oblation  the  eowring  **  (■*  •ia>aV 
Brahma  pariiSuhi  j/atyt  minlhnralf  riehe  yasya  tuiiiyam  |  aissoW  pssya  Uiu 
MS/sV  IfsstSSM  ;>art«t«waR*ai  *d  A.iuA\. 

*•*  Tlie  sense  of  this  rone  i»  obscure,  and  it  does  not  serai  to  be  vary  closely  sas> 
nested  either  with  what  prucedta  or  with  what  follows.    I  bar*  adopted 
I  SWISS,  lug  rtigjjraltd  by  fro  feasor  Aufrtcht, 


8KAMRHA  AND   BRAHMA. 


m 


possessors  of  sacred  knowledge  know  those  thirty-three  gods.  28. 
Men  know  Hiranyagarbha  "•  to  be  aupremo  and  ineffable.  Skambha 
in  the  beginning  shed  forth  that  gold  (hiranya,  ont  of  which  Hiranja- 
garbha  arose)  in  the  midst  of  tho  world.  '29.  In  Skambha  are  con- 
tained the  worlds,  austere  fervour,  and  the  ceremonial  Skambha,  I 
clearly  know  thee  to  be  contained  entire  in  Inilra.  30.  In  Indra  are 
contained  the  worlds,  austere  fervour,  and  the  ceremonial.  Indra, 
I  clearly  know  thee  to  be  coutaiued  entire  in  8kamhha.  31.  (The 
worshipper)  repeatedly  invokes  the  [god  who  beam  the  one]  name  by 
the  name  [of  the  other  god  j  before  the  sun,  before  the  dawn."10  When 
the  Unborn  first  sprang  into  being,  he  attained  to  that  independent 
dominion,  than  that  which  nothing  higher  has  ever  been.  32.  Bcvo- 
rence  be  to  that  greatest  Brahma,  of  whom  the  earth  is  tho  basis,  the 
atmosphere  the  belly,  who  made  tho  sky  his  head,  (33)  of  whom  tho 
sun  and  fta  fPH  r.newed  moon  are  the  oyc;  who  made  Agni  hia 
month,  (34)  of  whom  the  wind  formed  two  of  the  vital  aire,  and  the 
Angirases  the  eye,  who  made  the  regions  hia  organs  of  sense.'"  35. 
Skambha  established  both  those  [worlds],  earth  and  sky,  tho  wide 
atmosphere,  and  the  six  vast  regions ;  Skambha  pervaded  this  entire 
universe.  86.  Reverence  to  that  greatest  Brahma  who,  bom  from 
toil  and  austere  fervour  (tcjnu),  penetrated  all  the  worlds,  who  made 
soma  for  himself  alone.*7*  37.  How  ia  it  that  the  wind  does  not 
rest  ?  How  is  not  the  soul  quiescent  P  Why  do  not  the  waters, 
seeking  after  truth,  ever  repose?  38.  The  great  being  [is]  absorbed 
in  austere  fervour  in  tho  midst  of  tho  world,  on  the  surface  of  the 
waters.  To  him  all  the  gods  are  joined,  as  tho  branches  around  the 
trunk  of  a  tree.  39.  Say  who  is  that  Skambha  to  whom  the  gods, 
vith  hands,  feet,  voice,  ear,  eye,  present  continually  an  unlimited 
tribute."*  40.  Bv  him  darkness  is  dispelled ;  be  is  free  from  evil ;  in 
him  are  all  the  three  luminaries  which  reside  in  Prsjapati.    41.  He 


•«»  See  above,  p.  3&6. 

•'•  Tho  moaning  of  this,  at  suggested  by  Professor  Aufrrcht,  U,  that  by  invoking 
Imlre,  the  worshipper  really  worships  Sksmbha. 

»"  Compare  Bobtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon,  vol.  v.  p,  1616,  «.r.  prrfnamm, 

'"  Such  Is  the  sense  according  to  Roth,  Bit,  An «/«. 

»*  Compare  A.V.  x.  8.  16 "the  groat  being  in  Ike  midst  of  the  world :  to 

him  the  rulers  of  realms  brisg  tribal*  "  (mW  yaAsim  6*w*aM*ys  mmdAff  ttumti 
balim  ritAftaiAfito  AAtr&nti). 


384 


SKAMB1U  AND   BRAHMA. 


who  knows  tho  golden  reed  standing  in  the  waters  is  the  mystcriom 
TrajapatL""1 

I  have  been  favoured  with  tho  following  noto  on  the  subject  of  A  V 
x.  7,  by  Professor  Uold&tiicker,  whom  I  consulted  as  to  tho  sense  of 
verse  21  and  the  idea  conveyed  by  the  wurd  Skumbhe,  which  forms  the 
subject  of  the  hymn  :— 

"  The  sense  of  alambha  is,  in  my  opinion,  the  same  as  that  given  in 
your  Original  Sanskrit  Texts,  vol.  iv.  pp.  17,  18 — akambh  and  ttatabk 
-  iuipIv  jmi  dstii  varieties  of  the  same  dhntu  —  and  alamhha, 
tli'.rufore,  tho  sumo  as  ttambha.  It  is  the  'tuLamm,'  and  in  the 
Atharva-vedn  hymns,  x.  7  and  8,  seems  to  mean  the  fulcrum  of  the 
whole  world,  in  all  its  physical,  religious,  and  other  aspects.  The 
object  of  the  hvmn  being  to  inquire  what  this  fulcrum  U,  from  the 
answer  given  to  the  various  questions  it  seems  to  follow  that  it  is  there 
imagined  to  bo  the  primitive  deity,  or  tho  primitive  Veda,  tho  w 
brahman  in  tho  neuter  implying  both.  From  this^nVmlrcv  Veda,  nut 
vi -illy  but  really  (sal)  existing,  not  only  all  the  gods,  worlds,  relip-: 
rites,  etc.  (verses  1,  2  IT.,  19  ff.)  were  derived,  but  also  tho 
threo  Vi-das  (v.  II)  and  the  Athurvan  were  'fashioned'  (verse  20). 
This  ukambha  is,  therefore,  also  jy&ahfkam  brahma  (verses  21,  32,  33, 
34,  36, — 8,  1),  and  it  has  a  corresponding  prwcvuljy^f  ban  brdhmsytm 
(verse  17).  lienor,  while  he  who  knows  the  (existing)  Veda,  has  also 
a  knowledge  of  Brahma, — he  who  known  Ilmhmfi  and  also  Prajapati, 
U'-nce)  powtsett  u  knowledge  of  the  premval  Brahman.*  portion 
(of  the  preoeval  Veda),  may  infer  (anu)  from  such  knowledge  a  know* 
ledge  of  tho  Skambha  or  that  of  the  pre»val  Veda  itself  (verse  17). 
This  preseval  Veda  is  the  'treasure'  which  is  kept  by  tho  gods  only 
(verse  23) ;  hence,  the  Athorva-voda  priest  (brahmii),  who  hoa  a  know- 
ledge of  those  god-guardians  of  the  prerevol  Veda,  has  the  knowledge 
(or,  ho  who  htis  such  a  knowledge,  is  a  (true)  Athurra-vcdn  priest, 
verse  24).     From  this,  then,  it  would  likewise  follow  that  tho  existing 

•M  In  the  R.V.  x.  95,  4,  5  (compare  Niruktt,  iii.  21),  and  Satap.  Br.  xi.  ft,  1. 1, 
tlin  won!  anftm  his  tho  leiuo  of  mtmbrvm  titilt.  Art  w*  to  uadcftUad  t!i 
tvfoM  (re«d)  in  the  Mate  wnw  here,  <u>  denoting  •  Lings  f  The  words  rW«*>  A«r«. 
ynyh  arc  »lso  found  in  B.V.  is.  SB,  ft:  "  I  behold  the  »tjctun»  of  butter  [§l 
in  tho  rr.icht  of  thrm  u  the  golden  reed  (airapynyo  iWomA)."  which  the  commentator 
interpret*  us  meaning  tip-tamihawo  'jmr  «vaiily»r*»,  tht  "drs  of  the  lightning  ago* 
dneod  in  the  aerial  waters." 


SKAMBUA  AND   BRAHMA. 


38fi 


three  Vedaa  aro  merely  portions  of  the  preteval  Veda,  whence  they 
were  thrived,  or,  to  adhere  to  the  metaphor,  branches  of  tb.it  tree- 
fulcrum  (compare  verse  38) ;  end,  moreover,  that  while  tlambha  is  tht 
reality,  these  brooch  vedaa  aro  not  the  reality,  though  those  who  do  not 
understand  the  Skaiabba,  may  take  them  for  such  (verse  2 1).  '  Soma 
people  think  that  the  trilling  branch  (Mb  the  existing  Vcdas — comparo 
Terse  20),  which  is  not  ihe  reality  (a$at),  is,  as  it  were  {ita),  the 
highest  [paramam)  Veda  ;  on  tho  otlicr  hund,  those  (people)  inferior 
(to  the  former),  who  beliovo  that  it  is  tht  reality  (tat),  worship  thy 
branch  (i'.#.  those  Inter  Veda*.).*  Here  tho  word  ha,  in  my  opinion, 
implies  that  tho^nd*  of  llie  fir»t  half  verse  have  still  a  doubt,  and, 
■  re,  do  not  identify  both  tho  preicval  and  the  existing  Vedas; 
whereon,  those  people  introduced  with  uto  (uta-u)  are  more  ignorant  in 
assuming  for  certain  .inch  an  ideality,  and  therefore  proceed  to  a 
practical  worship  of  those  Villus." 

I  quote  in  addition  some  versos  from  the  hymn  next  in  order, 
A.V.  x.  8  :— 

Yo  bhtttafo  cha  bhnryam  cha  larraih  yai  chAdhitiihlkati  \  itar  yatya 
cha  kaaiam  tatmai jyeihfhdya  Brahmane  namah  |  2.  SktnMentne  tuhfa- 
bhiit  dyatii  cha  bh&mii  cha  fiih(hatah  |  Siambhah  idam  earram  Stmantad 
yat  prAna.l  <>ha  yat .  .  .  .  |  11.  Tad  tjati  h  cha  tuh- 

ihati  i  ... ijt.it/  ni&hhaeh  cha  yad  bhucat  |  tad  dadhAra  prUhnim 

tittarupaih  lot  tambhaya  bhatnty  tkam  eta  |  12.  Anantam  tilatam 
purvtrn  anantam  aniarath  tha  a  somante  \  te  nAkapClai  charali  richiiuan 
ridcAn  bh'ilam  nla  bhatyam  atya  |  1.1.  PrajQpatii  r/iarati  garbht  antar 
adfiiyamAnt  bahudlul  1 1 '  jtlyat*  |  ortihtna  riiftsn  bhutanam  jajuna  fad 
atya  ardhum  ialauiah  ta  let  ah  .  .  .  .  |  16.  Yatah  Suryak  udttx  attam 
yatra  cha  gachhati  |  lad  na  many*  'ban  jyethfhaih  tad  u  ndtyitt  Lin- 
tfatua  ....  |  20.  Yo  rni  It  ridyiid  arani  yAbhydH  nirmathyate  pom*  | 
m  vidiun  jytihfham  maaytla  ta  ridyiid  bruhmaaam  tnahat  .  .  .  .  | 
34.  Yalta  detukha  tnanuthy&icha  atah  nabhav  ita  irit&h  \  apom  ItA 
pnahpum  pj-ithhdmi  yatra  Ian  mAyayA  Milam  ....  37.  Yo  tidyll 
:.  ritata/M  yaimittn  otAh  prajah  imAh  \  iHtram  iH!ra»ya  yo  vidydl  la 
vidyud  brAhmanao*  mahat  |  38.  Ytduhati  lutraia  ttlatan  yatmina  otaii 

■/,  i*Ah  |  tulram  intraiy&haik  vtd*  alio  yad  bruhinanam  mahat | 

43.  JHtndarlkan  nacadrAram  tribhir  yunebhtr  Avrilam  |  tannin  yad  yak- 
iham  Atmantat  tad  tai  brahmtndo  riduh  |  44.  AlAno  dhin  amtitih 

M 


Ml 


SKAMMIA  A>'D  BRAHMA. 


nayambhah  rcuttta  tnpto  tut  /mlaichattOH*lk  |  lam  erm  ttdcatt  na  ktbhA 
mrityor  SlmaMih  dftlram  ajarash  ym&nam  | 

"  1.  Hvrorvnco  to  that  greatest  Brahma  who  presides  over  the  past, 
the  future-,  the  universe,  and  whose  alone  w  the  sky.  2.  These  tiro 
[world*],  tho  sky  unci  fhfl  earth,  exist,  supported  by  Skombha.  Skasa- 
bha  is  all  this  which  haa  soul,  which  breathes,  which  wink*  .  .  .  .  II. 
That  which  moved,  flies,  stand*,  which  has  existed  breathing,  not 
breathing,  and  winking ;  that  omniform  (entity)  has  established  the 
earth ;  that,  combined,  is  one-  only.  12.  The  infinite  extended  oc 
many  sides,  the  infinite  and  the  finite  all  around,— these  two  the 
ruler  of  tho  sky  proceeds  discriminating,  knowing  the  past  and  the 
futuro  of  this  (universe).  13.  (=Vuj.  San.  31,  19)  Prajopoti  mores 
within  the  womb.  Though  unseen,  ho  is  bom  in  many  forma.  With 
the  half  [of  himself]  he  produced  tho  whole  world.  What  trace  is 
there  of  the  [other]  half  of  him  ? ....  16.  I  regard  as  the  greatest 
That  whence  tho  sun  rues,  end  That  where  ho  sets ;  That  is  not  sur- 
passed  by  anything  ....  '29.  lie  who  knows  the  two  pieces  of  fire- 
wood from  which  wealth  is  rubbed  out,  he,  so  knowing,  will  under- 
Btand  that  which  is  Lhu  greatest  ;  he  will  know  the  great  divine 
mystery  (brahmana)  ....  34.  I  ask  thee  regarding  that  flower  of  the 
waters,  in  which  gods  and  men  are  fixed  as  spokes  in  the  nave  of  a 
wheel, — where  that  was  pluced  by  [divine]  skill  (sstiyi)  ....  37.  He 
who  knows  that  extended  thread  on  which  these  creatures  are  strung, 
who  knows  the  thread  of  the  thread, — he  knows  that  great  divine 
mystery  (brahmana).  38.  I  know  that  extended  thread  on  which 
theao  creatures  are  strung.  I  know  the  thread  of  the  thread,  and 
hence,  too,  that  which  is  the  great  divine  mystery  ....  43.  The 
possessors  of  divine  science  (brahma)  know  that  being  within  the  lotus 
with  nine  gates,  which  is  enveloped  by  tho  three  qualities  (yu***).17' 
44.  Knowing  that  soul  (Attnan)  calm,  undeonying,  young,  free  fiutu 
desire,  immortal,  self-existent,  satisfied  with  the  essence,  deficient  in 
nothing,  a  man  is  not  afraid  of  death." 

Somu  versos  in  the  two  preceding  hymns  speak  of  the  highest,  or 
greatest,  Brahma,  in  whatever  sense  that  term  is  to  be  understood, 

I  am  unable  to  state  whether  Brahma  in  the  sense  of  the  supreme 


•»  6*9  note  in  p.  J77. 


SKAMBHA   AMI   BKAHMA. 


387 


Deity  occur*  olwwhcro  in  tho  Alharva-veda,  unless  it  be  in  the  follow- 
ing passage  (xi.  8,  30  ff.):  ylih  i\po  yfli  eha  tUvaMh  yd  Virtid  Hrah- 
matfu  taha  |  iarlram  Brahma  pr&siiat  iarir*  'dhi  I'rajOpatih  \  31. 
SHryat  thakuhur  cQtah  priluam  puruthasya  vi  bhtjirt  |  athiUyitarnm 
Hmdnam  Jercih  prnyachhann  Aymtyt  |  32.  7'aswuid  tat  riWrrln  pvnuham 
xdam  Brahmeli  manyala  \  $arv&h  hi  attnin  dtralah  giro  geahfhe  iv&iaie  | 
"The  waters,  the  gods,  Virfij  {/nninin*)  with  Brahma  [entered  into 
man].  Brahma  entered  hia  body  ;  Prajapati  [presides]  over  his  body. 
31 .  rjurj-a  occupied  the  eye,  and  Vf»ta  the  breath  of  the  man.  Then  the 
gods  gavo  hi*  other  soul  to  Agni.  32.  Wherefore  one  who  knows  the 
man  thinks,  '  this  is  Brahma  ; '  for  all  the  gods  are  in  him,  as  cows  in 
a  cowhouse." 

In  the  Vfij.  San.  xxiii.  47,  we  And  the  following  words:  kitit  nit 
SHrya-samom  jyoltk  kim  lamudra-tamath  Barak  \  .  .  .  .  48.  Brahms 
Sarya-tamaui  jyotir  iyauh  tamudra-tamath  tarah  |  "What  light  is 
mi:  ii  to  tin'  sun?  What  lake  U  equal  to  the  sua ? "  To  which  the 
following  verse  gives  the  answer:  "Brahma  (neuter)  is  a  light  equal 
to  the  sun.  The  sky  is  a  lake  equal  to  the  sea."  The  commentator 
explains  Brahma  in  this  passage  as  standing  either  for  the  three  Vedas 
or  the  supremo  Brahma. 

In  iS'utnp.  Br.  x.  6,  5,  9,  it  is  stated  in  a  genealogy  of  teachers  that 
"Turn  Kavashcya  sprang  from  Proj&pati,  and  Frajnpnti  from  Brahma, 
who  is  sclf-cxisti-nt "  [Turah  K&tatheyah  PrajUpaUh  Praj&patir  Brah- 
wamah  \  Brahma  trayamihn).  In  another  passage,  already  quoted, 
from  the  nunc  work  (xiii.  7,  1,  1)  Brahma  (in  the  neuter),  the  self- 
exi»U-nt,  is  described  as  performing  tapai,  and  as  sacrificing  himself. 
Ibid.  x.  4,1,9,  a  Terse  is  quoted  from  some  hymn  which  begins,  "  I 
celebrate  the  one  great  imperishable  Brahma  who  was  and  is  to  be  " 
("  Bhutam  bkatithyat prattaumt  mahad  Brahmaikam  aktharam"). 

Again,  in  the  same  work,  xi.  3,  3,  1,  the  eamo  being  is  represented 
aa  giving  over  other  creatures,  except  the  Brahmacharin,  or  religious 
*tuil<  nt,  to  death  {Brahma  rat  nn'tyata  prajak  prtiyachhnt  \  latmai 
brahmach&rimnm  era  na  prdyackkat).  And  in  zi.  2,  3,  1  if.,  there  U 
another  text,  which  is  interesting  not  merely  as  introducing  Brahma, 
but  as  containing  what  is  probably  one  of  the  oldest  extant  expositions 
of  the  conception  of  wima  and  rip*  (name  and  form)  as  comprehending 
the  whole  of  the  phenomenal  universe.     These  two  words,  aa  is  well 


n»8 


SKAMBI1A  AN'D  URAOMA. 


ta  phile- 

\*h**ty 


known,  became  at  n  later  period  technical  terms  of  the  Ycdinta  philo- 
eopliy  •     The  passage  runs  as  follows : — 

Brahma  tai  idam  aar«  Ml  |  lad  detan  atrijaia  I  tad  itvin 
ethu  lokahu  cySrohayad  atminn  era  lake  Agiwn  Ftfynm  aniariktht 
era  S&ryam  \  2.  Alha  ye  atah  tnOftff  M»i  tad  yah  atah  irdhrdk 
dteatai  ttthn  tah  dtvatah  eyarehayat  tah  \  yatha  ha  era  im*  arirhk/Sk 
imui  tha  dttatah  tvam  u  ha  tta  U  ueirhkat  tAitha  dteatah  yethtt  tah 
detalAh  ryarohayat  |  3.  AIM  Brahma  tva  parSrdham  oyaehhal  |  I 
parardhtm  galva  aihhata  "  kathaSt  me  im6n  lokun  pratyartytim 
tad  dcubhytim  eva  pralyataid  rupema  chaiea  huuiiiu  tha  tah  \  ynxya  katya 
tha  nama  atti  (an  nilma  \  ya$ya  u  apt  nam  a  nilrti  yatt  re-da  rupma 
41  idam  rfLpam  "  iti  tad  r&pam  |  etdvad  vai  idam  yutad  rupam  thatra 
n(i ma  cha  |  4.  Tt  ha  tit  llrahmana  m<thal\  abate  |  ta  yo  la  ft*  Breh- 
tnano  mahatl  abhre  veda  mahad  ha  ova  abhvam  hhacati  \  5.  Tt  ha  tta 
Brahmano  mahatl  yaktke  \  ta  yo  ha  tie  Brahmano  mahad  yakaht  ttdj 
mahatl  ha  eta  yafaham  b/iavali  ,  tayor  anyataraj  jyaya  rupam  eta  |  yd 
hy  api  niiuui  r-'ipam  eta  tat  |  ta  yo  hy  elayor  jySyo  tedajySy»n  ha  taam&d 
hhaiati  yatin&j  jyay&n  bttbkithati  |  tuattyub  ha  rm  ayrt  dtruh  Hani  | 
ta  yadii  tin  tc  Bra!:-  >r  afha  amritah  uiuh  |  m  yam  xtanatak 

if  hi rayati  |   mano  tai  r«p*m  |  manata  hi  ttda  "idam  rupam1'  iti  | 

tttha  yam  vickah  Hyharayati  \  r*g  tai  nama  \ 
hi  ni'iina  y^ihfoti  |  Una  u  nama  iipMti  |  Mead  rot  idam  tarram  yJi.il 
''•ma  eha  |  tat  tartam  upnoti  \  sarratSi  rat  akthayyam  \ 
a  ha  atya  akihayyatii  sukritatn  bh/uaty  akthayyo  likah  \ 

"1.  In  the  beginning  Brahma  mi  l  H»}    Ho  created  gods. 

I  gods,  he  jilt -' -1  than  in  the*e  world*,  riz.,  in  this  world 
Agni,  in  the  atmosphcro  Viiyu,  and  in  the  slcy  Surra  ;  (2)  and  in  tho 
worlds  which  were  jtlt  higher  he  placed  the  godfl  who  are  il 
Such  as  arc  these  visilik-  vetldl  Bnd  then  goil», — even  ouch  were  thoaa 
i  I  iMible  worlds  iu  which  he  placed  those  (higher)  gods,  and  men 
wen;  those  goda  themselves.  3.  Then  Urahmu  proceeded  to  the  higher 
sphere  (punirddha — explained  by  the  commentator  to  mean  the  Satya- 
loka,  the  most  excellent,  and  the  limit,  of  all  the  worlds}.  Iiariug 
gone  to  that  higher  sphere,  ho  considered  '  How  now  can  I  pervade  all 
these  worlds?'  He  then  pervaded  them  with  two  things — wil 
and  with  name.  Whoteror  has  a  name,  that  i*  name.  And  then  that 
which  has  no  nume — that  which  ho  knows  by  its  form,  that '  tnch  it 


8KAMXIIIA  AND  BRAHMA. 


Mfl 


its  form  * — that  is  form.  This  [universe]  is  bo  much  aa  is  (i.#.  ia  co- 
extensive with)  form  and  name.  4.  These  are  the  two  great  magni- 
tudes (abhtr)  of  Brahma.  He  who  knows  these  two  great  magnitudes 
of  Brahma  becomes  himself  a  great  magnitude.  6.  These  arc  the  two 
great  manifestations  of  Brahma.  Ho  who  knows  theso  two  great  mani- 
festations of  Brahma  becomes  himself  a  great  manifestation.  Of  these 
two  one  is  the  greater.  viz.,  form;  for  whatever  is  name  ia  also  form. 
Ho  who  knows  the  greater  of  these  two  becomes  greater  than  him  than 
whom  he  wishes  to  become  greater.  6.  The  gods  wore  originally 
mortal,  but  when  they  wore  pervaded  by  Brahma  they  became  im- 
mortal. By  that  which  he  sends  forth  from  his  mind  (mind  is  form  ; 
for  by  mind  he  knows,  '  This  is  form')— by  that,  I  say,  he  obtain*  form. 
And  by  that  which  he  tends  out  from  his  voice  (voice  is  name ;  for  by 
voice  he  seizes  name) — by  that,  I  soy,  ho  obtuins  name.  This  universe 
is  so  much  aa  is  {i.e.  is  co-extensive  with)  form  and  name.  All  that  he 
obtains.  Xow  that  all  is  undecaying.  Hence  he  obtains  undeouying 
merit,  and  an  undecaying  world." 

Compare  with  this  the  passages  of  the  Brihad  Arnoyaka  Upanishad, 
which  will  he  found  at  pp.  75  ff.  and  1 C6  ff.  of  Dr.  Boer's  translation 
(Bibliothcca  Indica,  vol.  ii.  part  3),  and  tho  Murjdaka  Upanishad,  iii. 
2,  8,  p.  164  of  English  version. 

Brahma  is  also  mentioned  in  the  following  texts  of  the  Taitt  Br. 
ii.  H.  H,  9  :— 

Brahma  dextin  ajanayat  |  Brahma  riiram  idam  jegat  |  Brahmanak 
kthattram  nirmitam  \  Brahma  brahmanah  tUma*&  \  (tutor  atminn  ism 
hJtak  I  10.  Ant  or  tiham  tdam  Jagat  \  Brahmaita  Maraud*  >ywA- 
fhaa  |  Una  to  'rhati  sparddhitum  \  Brahman  dacdt  trayattrMat  | 
Brahman*  Indra-prajdpatl  |  Brahman  ha  tiit a  bhutani  |  micHdntak 
tamihitu  | 

"  Brahma  generated  tho  gods.  Brahma  [generated]  this  entire  world. 
From  Brahma17'  the  Eshattriya  is  formed.  Brahma  in  his  essence  is 
the  Brahman.*"  Within  him  are  all  those  worlds,  10.  Within  him  is 
this  entire  universe.    It  is  Brahma  who  is  tho  greatest  of  beings.  Who 


*"  Her*  thers  ii  aa  illusion  to  the  other  teoM  of  braltma  as  dcTotioo,  ths  peculiar 

i  of  lbs  Brahman  cut*. 
«  "  Par,"  itfi  tbt  cotaaxntttor,  "  ia  the  Brabmta's  body  tht  raprosM  Brahma 
u  manifested." 


190 


PRAJAPATI. 


can  vio  with  him  ?  In  Brahma  the  thirty-three  gods, — in  Brahma,  India 
and  Frnjnpati, — in  Brahma  all  being*  are  contained,  as  in  a  ship." 

Again,  it  is  sairl  (lit,  19,  8,  1,  quoted  above,  p,  361,  note):  "Let  ns 
worship  with  oblations  the  first-born  god,  by  whom  the  entire  universe 
Wftfofa  fXllta  i«  surrounded, — the  self-existent  Brahma,  who  is  the 
supremo  austere  fervour  [laptu).  It  is  he  who  is  son,  be  who  is  father, 
he  who  ia  mother.  Tapas  came  into  existence  the  first  object.*'  Brahma 
in  also  mentioned  in  iii.  12,  9,  7  (whore,  however,  he  is  described  u 
coming  into  existence) :  viicatrijah  praOiam&h.  tetram  6iata  |  uUuurs- 
sornam  prennte  naijantah  \  lato  hajajne  bhucanatya  gtpCsh  |  hirammayak 
iahinir  Brahma  ttfima  |  yrna  aurgcu  tapati  Ujaxtddhuh  .  .  .  .  |  n«  at*da- 
rid  manvte  tarn  brihalam  \  "  The  curliest  creators  of  the  universe  were 
engaged  in  a  sacrifice  for  a  thousand  years  ....  Thonce  sprang  the 
protector  of  the  world,  the  golden  bird  called  Brahma,  by  whom  the 
sun  glows,  kindled  with  flume  ,  • . .8b  one  ignorant  of  the  Veda  com- 
prehends that  great  being."  Compare  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  8,  9,  6  (quoted 
above,  p.  865),  in  which  Brahma  is  said  to  be  the  forest  and  the  tree 
out  of  which  the  worlds  were  constructed,  and  sb  the  basis  on  which 
the  creator  took  his  stand  when  upholding  the  universe. 


(8)  Prajtlpali. 


As  I  haro  observed  above  (p.  853),  the  word  prajapati,  "  lord 
creatures,"  was  originally  employed  as  an  epithet  of  Savitri  and  Soma, 
as  it  al*o  was  of  Hiranjagarbha  (R.V.  v.  121,  10).  It  afterwords, 
however,  came  to  denote  a  separate  deity,  who  appears  in  three  placet 
of  the  ltig-veda,  x.  85,  43  («t  mh  prajiMi  jarutyatu  Prajapali\)  ; 
x.  169,  4  ;  x.  184,  1  (d  rinchatu  Prajapati  ft),  as  the  beatoww  of 
progeny  and  cattle.  This  god  is  also  mentioned  in  the  Vujassmeyi 
Sanhita,  in  a  vent  (xxxi.  19)  which  comes  in  after  one  in  which  the 
great  Puruaha  is  celebrated  (see  above,  p.  373).  The  verse  is  as 
follows:  Prujiiptitii  charati  garbhe  antar  ajiiyttmuno  bahudh&  njayaU  | 
tatya  yonim  paripaiyanti  dhlriis  tetmin  h*  Utthur  bhmtmAni  rtsVd  | 
"Prajapati  moves  within  the  womb.  Though  ho  docs  not  become  born, 
ho  is  yet  bom  in  many  shapes.  Tho  wise  behold  his  womb.  In 
him  all  the  worlds  stand."  "'    Another  verse  of  the  V.  8,  in  which  he 

*'•  The  flwt  half  of  this  vcrwr,  ta  we  h»t«  ««n,  it  «lw  fgund  m  the  A.V.  i.  8,  1J, 


nUJAI'ATI. 


391 


is  referred  to  is  this  (xxxii.  5) :  "  Tatm/lj  jataA  na  purd  iinchanaira 
yak  &babh&ta  bhtttaniini  ciivS  |  Praj&patih  prajayu  Htmraragat  trlgi 
jyotlmtM  MthaU  M  sAcdarfl  \  "  He  It  In  whom  nothing  was  born,  who 
pervudts  ull  worlds,  Frajapati,  rejoicing  with  his  offspring,  is  joined 
with  the  three  luminaries,  as  the  eixteeath." 

Prajspati  U  frequently  alluded  to  in  the  Athan-u-vcda,  Several  of 
these  pasaagea  havo  been  already  cited  above,  as  X.  7,  7,  17,  40,  41 ; 
x.  8,  1$.  Some  of  the  ethers  which  I  have  observed  are  the  following: 
In  si.  3,  52,  ho  it  said  to  have  formed  thirty-three  world*  out  of  the 
oblation  of  boiled  rice  {ttasmud  vat  odanat  trut/iulrimiutam  Ukun 
tnrumim\ta  PrajUpaUh).  la  xi.  4,  12,  he  is  identified  with  Pra^a,  or 
breath  (prilnam  uhuh  Pritjiljialim).  In  xi.  5,  7,  he  is  said,  along  with 
Paramcabthin,  to  have  been  generated  by  the  Brahmaohurin,  or  reli- 
gious student.  In  xi.  7,  3,  he  is  declared  to  exist  in  the  Uchhiihfa,  or 
remnant  of  the  sacrifice.  And  in  xix.  53,  8,  10,  ho  is  said  to  have 
been  produced  by  Killa,  or  Time.  Most  of  these  passage*  will  be 
quoted  at  length  further  on.  It  will  be  seen  that  in  this  Veda  he  is 
not  generally  regarded  aa  tho  supreme  or  primal  deity. 

On  the  subject  of  Praj&pati,  I  hare  elsewhere  (in  vols.  iii.  4 ;  iv. 
19-24,  and  47-ol )  brought  together  a  considerable  number  of  passages 
from  the  Sittapatha  Brahmana,  of  which  I  shall  hero  only  repeat  the 
substance,  adding  any  further  references  which  I  may  have  noticed  as 
occurring  elsewhere.  Prajapari  is  sometime*  identified  with  the  uni- 
verse, and  described  (in  the  same  way  as  Brahma,  or  entity,  or  non- 
entity ara  in  other  places)  as  having  alone  existed  in  the  beginning,  na 
the  source  out  of  which  the  creation  was  evolved,  Satap.  Br.  ii.  2,  4,  1 ; 
Tii.  5,  2,  6;MI  xi.  5,  8,  1.  (See  vol.  i.  p  24 ;  vol.  iii.  p.  4  ;  vol.  iv. 
The  same  is  the  case  in  some  other  texts  adduced  by  Professor 
Weber  in  his  lad.  Stud.  ix.  477  f.,  where,  however,  Vuch  is  associated 
with  Prajapud  "  as  his  compauion  in  concert  with  whom,  and  through 


with  tho  iLffcrrnt  residing  of  adfttymauak,  unot  being  n*fl."  for  ajaymim*},  "not 
Mk|  Iwth."  The  •econd  lino  run*  that  in  the  .VV.  |  "  With  tho  half  he  prosacca 
the  whole  world.    But  what  tno*  it  then  o/  bis  [other]  hmlf  f  " 

•■  8'stap.  Br.  >iL  &,  2,  «i .  f+ttfopattr  cwt  idam  agrt  i»U  ria*  «w  |  m  'Umayi* 
-amuam  fifty  frtjnyrya"  Hi  m  prof/My**  ««  tuMi  paiim  mnmimila  mmtffy 
pwrutAam  tltakiJitubo  'tram  pranad  gam  inlrad  arim  rift*  'Jam  |  lad  yd  *n5* 
yrnu/i\y.i  'dXt  mramimil*  Intmnii  .iAuA  ••priHjnh  /kikivA  aft  |  man*  UN  pr.in  :uh 
pralAamam  |  lad  yd  mam—aA  purntAam  miramimila  Itumad  ui«A  "jwnwaVii  jtnt. 


B99 


PKsJAl'ATI. 


whom,  he  completes  his  work  of  creation."  *"  Thus  it  is  said  in  the 
Kotholcn,  xii.  5  (and  xxvii.  1) ;  Pr*}4p*tfr'  rai  idam  >l*U  |  rosavi  Vif 
diitiya  5»U  |  tarn  mithunafo  tamabkavai  |  sd  garbham  adhcHa  |  *5 
atr/itUl  (ipi'ikriimat.  \  ta  imah  prajiih  airijata  \  ta  Prajilpalim  era  puu*A 
pratiiat  |  'Tr!ijrifi:ili  wiw  tUl  n.imi  ».  V.  ■!>  was  a  second  U)  him. 
He  associated  sexually  with  her;  she  became  pregnant;  she  departed 
from  hiru  ;  she  produced  these  creatures;  she  again  entered  into  Prsja. 
joti."  Again,  in  the  Fanchavimsa  Br.  xx.  11,  2,  we  are  told  :  "Pr*j6- 
pattr  vai  idam  ekith  utft  |  ta&ya  vfi/j  er-a  scum  darts'  rtlg  dcitlyd  |  m 
aik-wiata  l  imfin  RM  I'ui/uiiii  turijai  \  it/am  cat  idam  sttrvam  vibharantl 
tthyati'"  Hi  \  ta  v&chaih  eyaspij'aia  \  a«  idam  sarvaih  nltAacanti  ait  |  *d 
urdt'wu  wUUamd  yatha  apum  dharti  lanlatu  nam  |  *'  Prajapati  alone 
wus  this  universe.  He  hud  Vuch  too  as  his  own,  as  a  second  to 
him.  He  considered  *  Let  mo  send  forth  this  Vach.  She  will  traverse 
ami  pervade  all  this.'  He  sent  hor  forth  :  she  traversed  and  per- 
vaded all  this:  she  extended  aloft,  diffused  like  a  stream  of  water." 
In  other  text*  of  the  Satap.  Br.,  however,  Prajapati  in  not  represented 
as  the  source  of  creation,  but  only  aa  ono  of  the  subsequent  and  sub- 
ordinate agents,  created  by  the  god*,  vi.  1,  1,  5  (vol.  iv.  of  this  work, 
p.  19  f.),  or  as  springing  out  of  an  egg  generated  by  the  primeval 
waters,  xi.  I,  6,  1  ft",  (vol.  iv.  21  (.).  He  is  elsewhere  said  to  bar* 
offered  sacrifice  in  order  to  produce  the  creation,  ii.  4,  4,  1  (vol.  iv. 
24),  and  to  huvo  been  himself  half  mortal  and  half  immortal,  x.  1 . 
2  ;  x.  1,  4,  1  (vol.  iv.  p.  47),  mortal  in  bis  body,  but  immortal  in 
breath,  and  to  have  performed  iaptu  for  a  thousand  yuan,  to  get 
of  sin  or  suffering,  popman,  x.  4,  1,  1  (vol.  iv,  51). 


thamah  paiunam  tinjataltamah  "  ili  \  mano  vai  ntrvi  pratfiih  |  laanaji  A«  Mrs* 
|  niiitiiAfhilah  \  lait  ytnl  matiiua/i  pnnuhnm  niratmmila  ttumiid  liAu^  '* pnru- 
iliah  nine  patarak  "  iti  punuhi/ntiia  hy  era  Ht  inrvt  bhwrtnti  |  u  I'ruj  jpati  alone 
wiu  at  first  this  [universe].  IIo  drairrd,  "  Moy  I  Meats  food,  and  become  repro- 
duced.' He  fubioocd  animals  from  his  brciillu,  a  man  from  hi*  soul,  •  booc  from 
hi*  eye,  •  cow  from  his  treath,  a  aJMSf  from  hit  ear,  a  goat  from  his  voice,  1m*> 
much  as  he  created  these  (animals)  from  hi  Imr  say  that '  the  breaths  are 

the  animals.'  The  soul  (maims)  is  the  first  of  the  breaths ;  and  since  ha  fashioned 
man  from  his  soul,  tln»y  say  thnt  '  man  in  the  first  and  Etmngrtt  of  animals.*  The  soul 
is  all  the  bNwtha,  for  they  are  all  supported  in  it  Since  thin  he  fashioned  man  from 
hi»  soul,  they  «y,  '  man  i«  nil  the  animals,"  for  they  are  all  hu." 

***  I  observe  that  Professor  Weber  speaks  here  of  the  waters  (owj),  ibe 
existent  ("tut),  sod  Brahman  as  each  denoting  primcvsl  matter  (UnnsUn- ). 


PIU\A. 


393 


Prajapati  may  thus  bo  said  to  have  two  characters,  which,  howover, 
arc  not  not  kept  distinct  in  the  Hnihmnna.  On  the  one  hand,  ho  is 
tho  result  of  one  of  the  efforts  of  the  Indian  intellect  to  conceive  and 
express  the  idea  of  deity  in  the  abstract,  as  the  great  first  cause  of  all 
thins:*  ;  vbile,  on  the  other  hand,  ho  is  sometimes  described  as  only  a 
secondary  and  subordinate  divinity,  and  even  treated  as  only  one  of  the 
thirty- three  deities  (as  in  Salop.  Br.  xi.  6,  3,  5.  See  above,  p.  1 1 ; 
and  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon,  i.v.  Prajupati).  In  the  Bnihraana 
itself  (xW.  1,  2,  18)  wo  have  tho  following  text,  which  expresses  two 
different  aspects  under  which  tho  god  was  regarded,  though,  perhaps, 
these  arc  not  identical  with  tho  two  points  of  view  which  I  hen 
stated: — PrajdpattV  vai  «*ho  yajno  bhavali  \  ubhayafft  vai  tial  Praj&- 
patir  nimtttai  cha  anirvktaieha  parmiUti  cha  aparimitai  cha  \  tad  yad 
yapuhti  karoli  yad  tva  a*ya  nimttam  parimitaih  rup.iiit  tad  atya  tout 
taihtktroti  \  atha  yal  ta»hnim  yad  tva  atya  am'ruilam  aparimilaA 
rfipatn  lad  atya  Una  tatmknroti  \  "Prajupati  is  this  sacrifice.  Pra- 
jipati is  both  of  these  two  things,  declared  and  undeclared,  limited 
and  unlimited.  Whatever  he  (the  priest)  does  with  tho  Yojus  text, 
with  that  ho  consecrates  that  form  of  Prajupati  which  is  declined  and 
limited.  And  whut  he  (the  priest)  does  silently,  with  that  ho  con- 
secrates the  form  of  Frnjiipati,  which  ia  undeclared  and  unlimited." 
Compare  tho  Muitrl  Upunishad,  vi.  3  [p.  63  of  Professor  C 
ed.):  die  tuta  Brahmano  rOpt  murtaih  cha  am&rlaA  elm  |  yan  mfkrtaih 
tad  usatyttm  |  yad  amir  tarn  tat  wtyaiit  |  "  There  are  two  forms  of 
Brahma,  the  embodied  and  the  unembodied.  The  former  is  unreal, 
tho  lattor  rcaL" 

(0)  7V<7$fl. 

A  great  variety  of  other  deities,  of  the  most  heterogeneous  character, 
are  celebrated  in  the  Atharva-veda  as  the  ptmsessora  of  divino  power. 
Though  scarcely  to  be  regarded  as  instances  of  an  abstract  conception 
of  the  deity,  the  representations  of  these  gods  may  be  adduced  lure  at 
illustrations  of  the  later  stages  of  the  luxuriant  and  multiform  Yedic 
mythology  and  speculation.  One  of  these  dcitiea  is  Prnrja,  life  or 
breath,  to  whom  a  hymn  (xi.  -4)  is  dedicated,  of  which  the  following 
is  a  specimen.  In  some  verses  he  seems  to  bo  identified  with  Par- 
janya  (sec  above,  pp.  HO  f.) :— 


39-1 


PBltf*. 


1.  Prfin&ya  namo  yatya  tartwn  idaih  rait  |  jro  *A*<*A 
yatmia  sarram  pratishfhitam  |  2.  Namat  to  Prtina  krandfiya  namat  It 
ttanayilnavo  |  m/juu  f<i  /Vuaa  tidyutt  namat  U  Print  tor  that*  |  3.  Ytt 
Prdnah  ttanayitnun'i  ahhikrandati  oehadhih  (compare  A.V.  viii.  7,  21)  | 
pravlyante  garbhan  dadhate  atho  bahvlr  ri  jdyantt  |  4.  Fai  PrdntA 
rid'ie  dgats  ahhikrandati  othadhlh  \  tartam  tadd  pramodatr  yaC  kind* 
bhamyiUn  adhi  |  5.  Fiw/d  /Ydfo  «^Ayara/-*^(2fJ  rar^no  pfitkivim 
ma  him  |  paitmu  tat  pro  modante  "  maho  vat  no  bhacitkyatt  "  |  0.  Abk*- 
vruhluh  othadhayah  Pranena  ttmatSdiran  |  "  rtywr  w»  «wA  jirdtitarak 
tar  rah  nah  turabhir  akah"  |  7.  Namat  to  attu  Hyatt  namo  'ttu  fiardyaU  | 
namat  to  Prd»a  tithfhaU  titlndyota  to  namak  \  9.  YH  to  Priina  prxyA 
tanur  yo  to  Pr&n*  pr«ya*\  |  atho  yad  bhothajam  farm  tatya  no  dktmi 
jlvato  |  10.  Prdnah  prajah  inn  ratio  pita  putram  ira  priyatn  \  Prima  ha 
tarratyf&varo  yach  eha  prilnali  yach  eha  nak  |  11.  Pr&no  mrityuk 
Prdnai  lakmd  Prdnath  dntih  upfitatt  ]  Prano  ha  lalyoradinam  uUomt 
loko  a  dadhat  |  12.  Pr&no  FirOf  Prtnp  Dtthftt  Prunam  tarn  ttp&taU  | 
PrCno  ha  turyai  thandramGh  Prdnam  ahuk  Pra/upatim  |  .  .  .  .  15. 
Pr&nam  Hhur  Mdtarikdnaih  Vdto  ha  Prtinak  uchyato  |  PrCno  ha  hhatam 
hhavyam  eha  Prdne  tanarn  pratishfhitam  |  16.  Atharranir  linairatir 
iaidr  manuthyaj'dh  uta  |  othadhayah  prajdyanto  yad&  team  Priina  jin- 
vati  |  ....  18.  Yao  to  Pr&na  idaiii  coda  yatmiihi  chaoi  pralithfhitak  \ 
oarto  tatmai  ball  fit  harftn  amwshmin  lokt  utlamo  |  19.  Yatha  Prdna 
halihritat  tnhhyaih  larvah  prajuh  tmih  \  era  tatmai  baittit  hardn  yao  ltd 
Irinaxat  tnoravah  | 

"  Reverence  to  Prinu,  to  whom  this  universe  is  subject,  who  has 
become  the  lord  of  all,  on  whom  all  is  supported.  2.  Reverence,  Prigs, 
to  thy  shout,  to  thy  thunder,  to  thy  lightning,  and  to  thyself  when 
thou  raincat.  3.  When  Priina  calls  aloud  to  tlio  plant*  with  thunder, 
they  are  impregnated,  they  conceive,  they  produce  abundantly.  4. 
When  the  muod  has  arrived,  and  Prana  culls  aloud  to  the  plants,  then 
everything  rejoieea,  which  i«  upon  the  earth  (compare  lt.V.  r.  83,  10f 
above,  p.  140).  5.  When  Prfinit  bus  wutvred  the  great  earth  with  rein. 
Uk-u  the  beasts  rejoice,  and  [think]  that  they  shall  have  strength. 
When  watered  by  Prana,  the  plants  burst  forth  [wring],  '  Tbou 
prolonged  our  life,  thou  host  made  us  all  fragrant.'  7.  ReTareaos 
thee,  Priina,  coming,  and  to  thee  going,  and  to  thoc  standing,  and  to 
thee  sitting ....  9.  Communicate  to  ub  thy  dear  form,  thy  dearest, 


; 


rain, 

ai 

»  to 


EOHITA. 


893 


with  thy  healing  power,  that  we  may  live.  10.  Prfina  clothe*  the 
creatures,  at  a  father  hi*  dear  son.  Prfirja  ia  the  lord  of  all,  both  of 
what  breathes  and  what  does  not  breathe.  11.  Prirja  is  death,  Prfirja 
is  fever.  The  gods  worship  Prirja.  Prana  planes  the  truth-speaker  in 
the  highest  world-  12.  Prim  is  Viriij,  Prirja  U  Deshtrl.  All  worship 
Prion.  Prinn  is  sun  and  moon.  They  call  Prajftpati  Prana  .  ...  IS. 
They  call  Matarisvan  Prirja;  the  Wind  la  called  Prina.  The  past, 
the  future,  everything  is  supported  upon  Priinii.  16.  The  plants  of 
Atharvan,  of  Angirns,  of  the  Rods,  and  of  mon,  grow  when  thou, 
Pr&na,  qiiickenest ....  18.  Whoever,  o  Prina,  knows  this  [truth] 
regarding  thee,  and  on  what  thou  art  supported — all  will  offer  bim 
tribute  in  that  highest  world.  19.  As,  o  Priina,  all  these  creatures 
offer  thee  tribute,  so  shall  they  offer  tribute  in  that  highest  world  to 
him  who  hears  thee  with  willing  eare.' " 


(10)  Rokita. 


Uohita,  probably  a  form  of  the  Fire  and  of  the  Sun  (though  he  ia 
also  distinguished,  in  the  hymn  1  am  about  to  quote,  from  both  these 
gods),  is  another  deity  who  is  highly  celebrated  in  the  Atharra-veda, 
where  one  hymn  (xiii.  1)  and  parts  of  others  aro  appropriated  to  his 
honour.  The  following  aro  some  of  the  verses  in  which  his  power  is 
described,  xiii.  I,  fl:— 

6.  Rokito  dydcS-pril/iirl  jajdna  tatra  lantum  Paramtshfhl  tatdna  | 
tatra  iiiriye  Ajak  L'iapddt  adriiihad  dydrd-prithivX  ba/rna  |  7.  Iiohilo 
dyded-prilhitl  adrimltat  ttrta  it  ok  ttabhttam  Una  nakak  \  UnAntartktfui* 
vinito  rdj'amti  ta\«  dtvuh  a,mritat*«m  avindan  |  13.  RohiU  yajnatya 
HmA  cha  Rokitdya  tdthi  trotrtna  manat&  JuAom  |  RoAitam 
dtvdk  yanU  tumawuyamAn/l^  |  ....  14.  Rohito  yajnaA  cyadadMd 
riitakarmaae  toxmut  ttj&tiui  upa  m/l  imdny  Sank  |  ....  25.  To  Ruhito 
cfithabkit*  tignairingak  pari  Aonim  pari  Suryam  babkHra  \  ye  rukfa- 
bhndti  pritkiclto  dicaih  cha  tittmud  dndk  adhi  trithllk  trijante  |  26. 
Rahito  dtttim  Qrnhad  makatak  pari  arnacdt  |  nrrdk  ruroka  Rt/hfo 
rukak  |  37.  Rahite  dydrd-prithirl  adAi  trite  taaujili  otjiti  |  .  .  .  .  55. 
8*  yejnak  pralkama  bkatc  bkaryo  ajdyata  |  tatmdd  ha  Ja/ne  idaik  ssmii 
yai  knuka  idaik  tirockoU  RohtUna  ritAind  "ikfilam  | 

"  Uohita  produced  heaven  and  earth     there  Parameehthin  stretched 


IM 


UCHHISHTA. 


the  cord.  There  Aja  Ekapi'ula  wag  sustained,  lie  established 
and  earth  by  his  foree.  7.  RofatU  mtablisbed  heaven  and  earth; 
hiin  the  sky  was  supported,  by  him  the  heaven.  By  him  the  atm« 
sphere,  by  him  tho  regions  were  meted  out  Through  him  the  gods 
obtninod  immortality.  13.  Rohita  is  the  generator,  and  the  mouth  of 
sacrifice.  To  Kohita  I  offer  my  oblation  with  voice,  ear,  and  mini. 
To  li.ob.ita  the  gods  resort  with  gladness  ....  H.  Rohita  offered  a 
sacrifice  to  Yisvukarman.  From  it  these  fire*  hare  reached  me. 
25.  Tho  gods  frame  creations  out  of  that  Rohita  who  is  a 
horned  bull,  who  surpasses  Agni  and  Siirya,  who  props  up  the  earth 
and  tho  «ky.  26.  Rohita  ascended  the  sky  from  tho  great  ocean;  he 
ascended  nil  ascents.*"  37.  Iu  Rohita,  who  is  tho  conqueror  of  wealth 
and  cows  ....  the  heaven  and  earth  aru  sustained  ....  55.  He  first 
became  the  sacrifice,  both  past  and  future.  From  him  sprang  all  this 
whatever  linn-  is  which  shines,  developed  by  Rohita,  the  rishi." 

In  the  second  hymn  of  the  same  book,  in  which  the  sua  is  cele 
Rohita  is  also  Darned  in  the  following  verses : — 

39.  Itohitok  Hlo  ahhavad  Rohito  'gre  Prajiipaiik  |  Rohito  yaj'n 
mukhmh  Rahilah  IMT  Abharat  |  -lO.  Rohito  toko  abhattd  Rohito  'tyataf 
dicatn  \  Rohito  ralmibhir  bh&mim  lamudram  anu  torn  <  ho  rat  |  -II. 
Sarvi'-!'  AtffJ  imnacharad  Rohito  'dhipatir  dittik  |  divam  $amudram  id 
bh&m hit  larvam  IhutaA  ri  rahhati  | 

"  39.  Rohita   became   Time  ;    Rohita  formerly   became   Prajapati. 
Bohita  is  tho  mouth  of  sacrifices.     Rohita  produced   the   sky.     II 
Rohita  became  the  world  ;  Rohita  shone  beyond  the  sky  ;   Bobit 
traversed  tho  earth  and  ocean  with  his  rays.     41.  Rohita  traversed 
the  regions.     Rohita  is  tho  ruler  of  the  sky.     He  preserTea  heaven, 
ocean,  and  earth — whatever  exists." 

And  yet  the  gods  are  said  to  have  generated  Rohita  (A.V. 
3,  23  :  yad  Rohitam  ajanayanta  deruh). 


(II)  Uchhithtn. 

In  the  hymn  which  follows  divine  power  is  ascribed  to  the  lemihsj 
of  tho  sacrifice  (Uchhishta) : 

A.V.  xi.  7,  1 :    Uchhithfe  n&mo  rA/mm  cha  uchhiihl*  lotah  dAif«A  \ 

*"  Here,  as  well  m  in  tcti«*  8  and  9,  then  u  ■  play  on  tho  ooontction  of  Bohita 
•lib  the  root,  rvA,  to  •' ascend,"  or  "grow.'" 


TTCHHI8HTA- 


wi 


uchhithft  Mraf  tha  Ajnii  eka  ffrm  Mff|  uttn&kiUm  |  2.  Uekkitkt* 
dyura-pritkiri  rifcam  bkitnm  umilkilam  |  ipaktamudrah  Uehkuhf* 
ekandramak  eaiak  akitflh  |  3.  JSann  Uthkitkf*  aiatiii  ekcbkau  mrityvr 
rSjak  Prap'tpatih  |  .  .  .  .  4.  .  .  .  Brahma  riitatrijo  daia  \  nabhim  ire 
tareatai  thatram  VchhUhf*  dnatuh  (ritd/i  |  ....  14.  A'or«  bhiimlh 
lamndn'th  l\hhiih(e  'dhi  irilrth  dirah  |  d  xirryo  hh&ti  Uckhithft  ahor&trt 
apt  tan  mayi  |  15.  Upahatyaih  Viihavantam  ye  cha  yajnak  euku  hiluh  \ 
bibkartti  bkartfi  riicarya  Uchhiahfo  jamtuh  pita  |  16.  Pita  janitur 
t'ekhithfo  amh  paulrah  pUdmahak  \  ta  hkiyati  viiratya  lidno  criiku 
bhumyum  atighnyak  |  17.  jtitairi  lalyam  tapo  rttekfraih  iratno  dfmimai 
rha  karma   rha  |  blmtum    bhatitkyad    Vehhiikft  <  r  balam 

lah  |     ...   20.    Ardhamasai    ch  :a    dr/<n»3A    filttbkih    laka    | 

QMsjIrtyi  gkotkamr  upah  ttaHayituuk  irutir  mahi  \  iarhiruk  ;,'<atah 
ahndriak  onhadhayo  rlrudka*  tfinn  |  21.  Abhr-'ini  vidyuii/  xartkam 
Uehkiikf*  wmirita  hrita  |  ....  23.  T$A  cha  pronati  prantna  yaeh  eka 
paiyuli  ihidihutku  |  UehhitktGj  jajnirt  tarte  dirt  dtcdh  ditiirilah  |  21. 
Riekak  puriiaam  yajiuIiQ  take  \   UekkuhfQj- — |   26. 

Prunuptinau  thakshuk  trot  ram  olskitiitlia  ktlitiicha  ytl  |    I  ■  —  | 

26.  AnanJuh  uiodiik  praaiudo  abhlmotia-mudai  cha  yn  |  UMithfilj — | 

27.  Dnuh  pitaro  j>iauu*ky»k  gaudharolpraraiai  tha  ye  \  Uchhithftij  | 
"la  the  Uclihishta  (remain*  of  tbc  sacrifice)  nro  contained  name, 

fonn,**  the  world,  I  mini  and  Agni,  the  universe,  (2)  heaven  and  earth, 
all  thiit  BxistS)  the  waters,  tho  BH,  the  moon,  and  the  wind.  3.  In 
the  UihhisliU  arc  loth  tho  OQlta&t  uud  tho  non-existent  {tan,  atami 
cha,  masculine),  death,  food  (or  strength),  Frojiiputi  ....  4.  Ilinhma, 
tlic  ten  creators  of  all  things,*0  the  gods,  are  fixed  on  all  aides  to  the 
Uchhiahfa  as  [the  spokes]  of  a  wheel  to  the  nave."  So,  too,  the  Rile, 
eViman,  Yajns,  tho  hymns,  the  different  sort*  of  sMfificM,  and  parts  of 
the  ceremonial,  etc.,  nro  comprehended  in  it  (verses  5-13).  *  14. 
Nine  earths,  oceans,  skies,  are  contained  in  the  Uehhi*h{a.  Tho  sun 
slimes  in  the  Uehhi*lit,n,  unci  in  me  the  Uchhishia  are  day  and  night. 
1.1.  The  Uehtn*lit..t  (maitulint),  tho  sustainor  of  the  universe,  tho 
fiitlu-r  of   the  generator,   upltolds  tho  Upahavyo,   the   VialiQvut,   and 


•**  S«e  t«»c  12  of  ||  !'«ni»Via,  A.V".  i.  8,  nb*!'..-. 

»*  Are  tb«*  the  Urn  Malunhis  mtaitioaeJ  by  Mana,  L  3l  U  In  A  V.  ii.  1,  1,  J, 
mrtiiiiiti  is  mndt  of  iae  seven  BisMs,  ta«  msken  of  all  things  (iJi*u-trn*J>).  See 
alio  A.Y.  xii.  1,  39  i  and  tie  lit  roL  of  this  work,  pp.  37  sad  41,  niM. 


393 


ANUMATI. 


the  sacrifice*  wbioh  are  secretly  presented.  16.  The  Uchhbh|a,  the 
father  of  tho  generator,  the  grandson  of  spirit  {mm),  the  primeval 
parent,  the  lord  of  the  universe,  the  bull,  dwell*  triumphant  (V)  on  the 
earth.  17.  Ceremonial,  truth,  rigorous  abstraction,  dominion,  effort, 
righteousness  and  works,  part,  future,  strength,  prosperity,  force, 
reside  in  the  Uchhichtn,  which  ia  force  (compare  x.  7,  I,  above). 
20.  In  the  Uchhishta  are  embraced  the  resounding  waters,  thunder, 
tho  great  *ruti,  pebbles,  sand,  stones,  plant*,  gnuw,  (21)  clouds,  light- 
nings, rain.  23.  From  the  Uchhi*h{a  sprang  whatever  breathes  and 
sees,  with  all  the  celestial  gods,  (24)  the  Rich  and  S&man  Tessas, 
metres,  Furanas,  and  Yajut,  two  of  the  vital  airs  [prfiwt  and  opanm), 
tic  eye,  the  ear,  impcrishablcnesa,  perihhablcnfs*,  (26)  pleasures,  en* 
joyments,  (27)  the  Fathers,  men,  GandharTaa,  and  Apaaraaes." 
pare  A.V.  xi.  3,  21.) 

(12)  Sacrificial  ImphmtnU,  tie.,  *U. 

Similar  divine  powers  are  ascribed  to  different  sacrificial  ladles 
A.V.  xriii.  4,  5  :  "  Tho  Juha  has  established  the  sky,  the  Upabhnl 
the  atmosphere,  and  tho  Dhrnvs  the  stable  earth "  (Juk&r  tUdJt&ra 
dytim  vpabhrid  irntarikihan  dhrueA  dadh&ra  pritMtlM  praluhfh&m).  In 
R.V.  vi.  51,  8,  it  ia  said  of  namas,  "  adoration,"  that  it  has  supported 
the  earth  and  tho  shy,  and  rules  the  gods "  {namo  d*dk&ra  ppit\h\n 
ufa  dyOm  |  namo  dwtbhyo  namah  lie  ethSm).  See  also  A.V.  iv.  33, 
3-6,  where  tho  odana  oblation  is  said  to  support  heaven  and  earth, 
etc. ;  A.V.  xiz.  32,  9,  where  a  rimilar  power  is  ascribed  to  the  sacri- 
ficial grass;  and  A.V.  x.  10,  4,  26,  30,  34,  where  wonderful  attributes 
ore  predicated  of  the  Vaifi  (cow). 


(IS)  Anumati. 


idea* 


In  a  hymn  to  Anumati  (according  to  Professor  Roth  tho  goddess 
good  will,  as  well  as  of  procreation),  A.V.  vii.  20,  sho  ia  thus 
tied  with  all  things  (verso  6):  "Anumati  was  all  this  [universe], 
whatever  stands  or  walks,  and  everything  that  more*.  Hay  we,  a 
goddess,  enjoy  thy  benevolence ;  for  thou,  Anumati,  dost  favour  us" 
{amutnatih  Marram  idam  babhQta  yat  luhfhati  choral i  ysi  u  cha  rmM 
r/'ii/i"  |  taty&t  tt  dtti  lumalau  ty&ma  Anumal*  tnu  hi  ma&uue  M4t). 


THK  BRAUMACHARIN. 


SM 


(14)  TK*  Ox,  or  KdtU. 

In  A.V.  it.  II,  1,  a  divine  power  is  uscribcd  to  the  "Ox,"  which, 
however,  Frofceeor  Aufrocht  thinks  can  only  be  regarded  as  a  meta- 
phorical ox,  as  it  has  an  udder  (rersc  4),  and  gives  milk ;  and  ho 
supposes  a  kettle  with  four  leg*,  the  G/mrma,  to  be  intended.  Ae  that 
v«moL  was  used  for  boiling  milk  and  other  materials  for  sacrificial 
purpose*,  the  allusions  in  this  hymn  to  milk  become  intelligible;  and 
possibly  the  four-legged  kettle  may,  by  its  form,  have  suggested  the 
figure  of  an  ox. 

1.  Anadnln  dadhnra  prilhivlm  uta  dydm  anadctln  dadhAra  uru  anttir- 
ihkain  |  anadvun  dadhilra  pradiiah  th*d  urrJr  anadcaH  viham  bhura- 
mm  d  rirssa  |  2.  Anadefm  Indro  ta  paiubhyo  ri  cktukf*  troyam  iesro  ti 
taimUt  adhvanah  \  bh&tam  bhacuhyad  bkuvand  dufulnah  wrvt  oVrdada* 
charati  craiuni  |  3.  liulro  jilta  mamtihyri.hu  antar  gharnai  lapfai 
tharali  hiuchanah  |  ....  5.  Yatya  neie  yajnapatir  na  yajno  na  atya 
data  lit  na  pratiyrahltii  \  yo  eihajtd  tiitabhrid  tUtaiarmil  ykarmam  no 
brtiia  kalamai  rhatuthpAt  \ 

"The  ox  has  established  the  earth  and  the  sky;  the  ox  has  esta- 
blished the  broad  atmosphere ;  the  ox  has  established  the  six  vast 
regions;  the  ox  has  pervaded  the  entire  universe.  2.  Tho  ox  is  Iadra. 
He  watohes  over  the  beasts.  As  Sakra  (or  mighty)  he  measures  the 
threefold  paths.  Milking  out  the  worlds,  whatever  has  bc«n  or  nhall 
be,  ha  performs  all  the  functions  of  the  gods.  3.  Being  born  as  Indra 
among  men,  the  kindled  and  glowing  kettle  works  ....  6.  That  which 
neither  the  lord  of  the  sacrifice  nor  the  sacrifice  rules,  which  neither  the 
giver  nor  the  receiver  rules,  which  is  all-conquering,  all-supporting, 
and  all-working, — declare  to  us  tho  kettle,  what  quadruped  it  is." 


(15)  Tk*  BrahtHOcJmriH. 

The  hymn  to  bo  next  quoted  ascribes  very  astonishing  powers  to  the 
Brahmacharin,  or  religious  student.  Some  parts  of  it  are  obscure,  but 
the  translation  1  give,  though  imperfect,  will  convey  some  idea  of  the 
contents: — 

A.V.  xi.  5,  1  :  IirahmachAri  itknami  charati  rodail  u&kt  tannin  dtrAk 
Mmm/maio  bhaeanti  J  *a  dad  ha  r  a  pritkirim  diva  in  tha  ta  ue-karyaih 
tsprnM  pipartii  |    2.    Utakmaekiirifam  pit  art  d*cajitm\h  pritkay  detuh 


too 


THE  BP.AlIM.ACnARIN-. 


anutamyanti  tarve  |  gmdherv&b  mam  ancdyan  Irayattri&iat  triiai&k 
ahaftahatrOh  |  earctln  ta  dcvaa  tapatd  piparti  |  3.  AckdryaA  vpmncya- 
mum  brahmatharinaih  If  kymtti  garbhe  antah  \  tarn  rdtrie  iurah  mdart 
bihharti  tat'i  jtliam  draehfum  alhttaAyanli  dadh  |  -4.  lyam  aamit  prithiti 
dyaur  diitiyti  utantarikeham  lanidltu  prindti  |  brahmathuri  eamidhi 
mtkhalayd  iramena  hk&tht  tapati  pip.;,-ti  |  5.  Pirn  jiit«  Brahmap 
brahtnathorl  gkarnmA  MtiMt  tapatodiUiah(hai  |  tumHj  jiUm  bruk- 
mam/n  Brahma  jyethfham  devdi  e/ta  tarre  -amrittna  tukoM  |  6.  Bruh- 
maehdrl  eti  tamidhd  umiddhah  kdribnam  uudno  dikthit*  Hirghaimairuh  \ 
sa  nadynh  «li  pArvaem&d  uttar/tm  tamudram  Ickdn  tangribhya  mul*r 
aeharikrat  |  7.  Brahmackdrl  janayan  brahma  apt  Ukant  Praj&ptiim 
Parawthfhinam  Virdjnm  |  garbha  bhutrd  mnritaeya  yoitdr  Jndro  kt 
bhatva  asurfiiii*  tatardu  |  8.  Achdrya*  tatakiha  nabhatl  mbha  ime  mrri 
gamblure  prithii:<ik  divam  cba  \  te  rakahati  tapnta  brakmaehurl  Utmia 
dev&k  tammiiiuw)  bhavanli  |  9.  Imiim  hh&mim  prithiiim  brakmdfttri 
bhikihum  iljubhan  prathamo  dicam  cha  |  U  Ljittu  lamidkac  vpOtU  layer 
ur/.itd  bhunindni  viuti  I  10.  Artdg  anyah  paro  anyo  ditaepruhfkdd 
gu'm  niilhi  niAihfU  frdfaMglRQM  |  tau  rakehaii  tapatd  bra/imaeka*1  1st 
hvaln'i  i  rln  ih  brahma  cidr&n  |  16.  Aehdryo  brahmachdr'i  braAmaehSri 
Prajdpalih  |  Prujdpatir  ri  r>\j"t.t  virdd  Indra  'bharaJ  tail  |  17.  Brti- 
machuryena  tapved  rdjd  rdehfram  ri  rakihati  |  dchfiryo  brahmackarytns 
brahmachdrinam  ichhate  |  18.  Brahmatharytna  kanyu  yutdnaA  rt'idittt 
pat i hi  |  tiHcrrlton  brumdcharycM  aivo  ybatavt  jiyhbati  |  19.  BraAmaeka- 
rytna  tapatu  dteak  mrityum  apayhnata  \  Indrc  ha  brnhmaehart/tna  drrt- 
bhyah  trar  abharat  \  20.  O*hadhayo  bhitabharyam  akorutre  ranatpatik  | 
Mittaltarah  taka  ritubhit  U  jCtSh  brahmaeb/irinah  |  21.  Pdrlkitdk 
dieyih  ptimtk  tliuni/iih  yrSmydi  eha  ye  |  apakthuh  pakthinai  tXa  ye  U 
fdldh  brahmneharinah  |  -''J.  Pfithah  utrre  pr/t/ipatyuh  prunXn  AtmtMtu 
lihhuiti  |  tun  tarxun  brahma  rakihati  brahnachArini  ohbritam  .  .  .  .  !IGt 
2'dni  kalpayad  biuilnmichuri  mlilatya  prith{h*  tapo  'tinbfkat  tapyam&ngk 
eamudrt  \ 

"  Tho  Brahmachi"irin  works,  quickening  both  worldi.  The  gods  «r» 
jojful  in  hint,  lie  has  established  the  earth  and  the  »ky.  He  Balis- 
fits  I  ft  (rcllgiooa  teaoher)  by  tapos.  l'  I  n,  ih» 
heavenly  hoets,  all  the  gods  nparaklj,  follow  aftcx  him,  with  the  (WW 
Gandtturraa.  He  aatUfies  all  the  gods  b y  tapa*.  3.  The  achirya,  adr ; 
iug  him  as  a  dimple,  uiukvi  hitu  a  Uralimavu                  IB  the  womb, 


THE  URAUMACUARl.V. 


401 


and  supports  him  in  tho  belly  for  thrco  nights.  When  he  ia  born  tho 
gods  assemble  to  see  Lira.  4.  This  piece  of  fuel  is  tho  earth  (compare 
verse  9),  the  seeond  is  the  sky,  and  he  satisfies  the  air  with  fuel.'*4 
The  brahmnohirin  satisfies  the  worlds  with  fuel,  with  a  girdle,  with 
exertion,  with  tapas.  5.  Born  lx'foro  Brahma,  the  Brahmachitrin  arose 
through  tnpos,  clothed  with  heat.  From  him  was  produced  divine 
knowledge  (brihmuna),  the  highest  Brahma,**  and  all  the  gods, 
together  with  immortality.  6.  The  Brahmachnrin  advances,  lighted 
np  by  fuel,  clothed  in  n  blnck  antelope's  skin,  eonM.rr.ited,  long-bearded. 
He  moves  straightway  from  tho  eastern  to  the  northern  ocean,  com- 
pressing the  worlds,  and  again  expanding  them.  7.  The  Bruhmach'irin, 
generating  divine  science,  the  waters,  the  world,  Pmjiiputi,  Paramcsh- 
thin,  Viraj,  having  become  an  embryo  in  the  wuuib  of  immortality, 
having  becomo  Indra,  crushed  tho  Aeuras.  8.  The  Acburya  has  con- 
structed both  these  spheres,  broad  and  deep,  tho  earth  and  the  sky. 
Tho  Brohmacbarin  preserves  them  by  tapas.  In  him  the  gods  ore 
joyful.  9.  It  was  the  Brahmachnrin  who  first  produced  this  broad 
earth  and  the  sky  as  an  alms.  Making  them  two  pieoes  of  fuel  (com- 
pare verse  4),  he  worships.  In  them  nil  creatures  are  contained.  10. 
Tho  two  receptacles  of  divine  knowledge  are  secretly  deposited,  the  one 
on  this  side,  the  other  beyond  the  surface  of  the  sky.  The  Brahma* 
charin  guards  them  by  tapas.  Wise,  he  appropriates  that  divine 
knowledge  as  his  exclusive  portion  .  .  .  .  IB.  The  Brahmai  harin  is  the 
Achirya,  the  Bnihn-.ni  liwin  fa  1'i.ij  IpsJ  I ,  fttjlfti  Klines  (r»  rAj'ati) ; 
the  shining  (Viroj)  becomo  Indra,  tho  powerful.  17.  Through  sclf- 
rcntraint  and  tapas  a  king  protects  his  dominions.  Through  self- 
restraint  an  Achirya  seeks  after  a  Brahmacharin.  1 8.  By  self-restraint 
a  damsel  obtains  a  young  man  as  her  husband.  By  self-restraint  an 
oz  and  a  horse  aeck  to  gain  fodder.  19.  By  self-restraint  and  tapes 
the  gods  destroyed  death.     By  self-restraint  Indra  acquired  heaven 


***  Sw  As'alfiyana't  Orinyu  Sotraa,  sd  Rteastrr,  pp.  12  a*.,  warn  th«  initiatJoo  of 
the  Brahmacbirin,  or  r*li£t<.ua  tluilrat,  i»  desoribed.  Part  of  tbe  cervaaoar  if  that  ka 
throw*  fw-l  (urniM)  on  tbo  fire,  which  he  invokes  with  text*.  This  ritual  is  pro- 
bably ulludinl  to  in  the  li  vrt.u  b  lure  ua.  The  ttrihm&i  lurin  it  also  mentioned  in 
fl.V.  i.  109,  6,  whtro  ho  Mid  to  be  one  member  of  tha  god)  (m  atawaai  Maafi 
rktm  si0um). 

*"  Tb*  word*  brakmitjyttkfkiM,  omplojcd  in  A.V.  a.  7,  32  ft".,  and  x.  8, 1,  appear 
to  designate  a  pcraonal  being  {•*»  abore).     The  ume  may  bo  the  case  her*. 

M 


•102 


KAMA. 


1 

•     — 


from  [or  for]  the  gods.  20.  Plants,  whatever  has  been,  whatever  ahall 
be,  day  and  night,  trees,  the  year,  with  the  seasons,  have  been  pro- 
duced  from  the  Brahinncharin.  21.  Torrvntrial  and  celestial  beings, 
beasts,  both  wild  and  tamo,  creatures  without  wings  and  winged,  bar* 
been  produced  from  the  Brohmacbarin.  22.  All  creature*  which  hare 
sprung  from  Prnjiipatt  hare  breath  separately  in  themselves ;  all  of 
them  are  preserved  by  divine  knowledge  (brahtna),  which  is  produced 
in  the  Brahmacharin  ....  28.  These  things  the  Brahmachirin  formed; 
on  the  surface  of  the  water  he  stood  performing  tapes  •**  in  the  so-  *' 

The  Tuitt.  Br.  iii.  10,  11,  3,  tells  a  story  flluBtratire  of  the 
virtue  ascribed  to  orahmacharyya,  or  religious  self-restraint ; — 

Bharadv&jo  ha  tribhir'&yvrbkir  brahmacharyam  «r<Jr«i  |  tarn  hajlratSt 
itha-.iram  iayanatn  Indrah  uparrajya  wStha  "  Bharadcaja  yat  U 
ehaturtham  nyur  dadyaih  kin  tUntt  kuryuh "  iti  |  "  brohmatharyam 
ma  entna  chareyam  "  Hi  ha  mittha  |  (ait  ha  oiriritpia  meijmuHa  Me 
ninchtikura  |  ttthiim  ha  ekaikaimOd  mtuhfim  Cdad*  |  ta  ha  MdaU 
"  Bharadvaja"  itij  timantrya  "ttdGh  tai  $ta  |  ananluh  tai  vtdak  |  ttad 
vai  etais  tribhir  Ayurbhir  ancavochathtih  \  alha  U  ilarad  ananiktam  #ra  | 
thi  imam  tiddhi  \  ayai\  vai  tanaiidt/a  "  Hi  I 

"  Bharadvija  practised  brahmacharyya  during:  tnree  Uvea.  Indrs, 
approaching  him  when  he  was  lying  decayed  and  old,  said:  '  Bharod- 
vaja,  if  1  give  thee  a  fourth  life,  what  wilt  thou  do  with  it  P  * 
He  answered :  '  I  will  use  it  only  to  practise  brahmacharyya.'  He 
showed  him  three  objects),  as  it  were  unknown,  in  the  shape  of  moun- 
tains. From  each  of  these  he  took  a  handful.  He  said,  addressing 
him  |  i  Bbaradvaja,  these  arc  the  Vcdas;  the  Volos  are  infinite.  That 
U  what  thou  hast  recited  during  those  three  lives.  But  other  thing* 
havo  remained  undeclared  by  thee.  Now  learn  this  (Agni  Savitra). 
This  is  universal  knowledge.'  " 

(16]  Kama. 

We  have  already  seen  above,  that  in  R.V.  x.  129,  4,  desire  is  said 
to  havo  been  the  first  movement  that  aroeo  in  tho  One  after  it  had 
come  into  life  through  the  power  of  fervour  or  abstraction.  This 
Kama,  or  desire,  not  of  sexual  enjoyment,  but  of  good  in  general,  is 
celebrated  in  the  following  curious  hymn  (A.V.  ix.  2)  as  a  great  power 

■•  Cssapar*  A.V.  x.  7,  38,  ousted  soots. 


KAMA. 


MS 


superior  to  all  the  gods  ;  and  is  supplicated  for  deliverance  from 
Guernica.  Desire,  as  the  first  step  towards  its  own  fulfilment,  must  be 
ooosidervd  as  liuxe  identified  with  successful  desire,  or  with  some 
deity  regarded  as  the  inspircr  and  aceomplisher  of  the  wishes  of  his 
votaries : — m 

1.  Sapalwt-hanom  n's^ihimii  gJirittna  KCmaA  tiktk&mi  kavuhti 
ujytn<t  |  nlchaih  lapatnan  mama  pudayti  learn  alhukfuio  ms/is/d  rlr- 
yt*a  |  2.  Tad  me  maitaio  nn  priyaih  na  ehal»hu$hi>  yam  m«  baUuuti"* 
n&bhimndati  |  tad  itukahvapynam  prultmunchumi  tapatn*  K<lm*&  itultv 
ud  aham  bhidtyam  |  3.  DttthsKapnyaiit  Kama  duntaih  cha  K&na  apr«r 


""  la  A.V.  iiL  29,  7,  m™  light  is  thrown  upon  the  process  by  which  Kuraa 
came  to  be  regarded  M  a  deity.  We  there  rear] :  "  Who  hath  gtrra  thia,  end  to 
whom?  Kama  hai  given  it  to  Kama  (•'.<-  the  inspircr.  or  fulnllcr,  of  desire,  ha* 
girto  it  to  dr-viri'),  Kama  ui  thn  )[im  (i.e.  tho  inspircr,  or  fulfiiler.  of  dears) ; 
Kama  u  tin  receiver.  Kuuia  has  entered  into  the  ocean.  Through  Kama  I  raoeira 
thee.  Kima,  tliia  it  thine  "  [kah  trfam  tamai  tulat  k<\m*k  LamBya  ilal  |  Umo  data 
komak  f/rmlifuXUa  kamah  tamit/imm  a  rirtia  |  kiuttna  Ira  pmliffiKtflti  tama  tM 

/.)  'I'll if  rttte  it,  I  and,  quoted  by  Mr.  Oolebrooke,  Mis.  Em.  i.  210,  u  a  text 
forming  part  of  the  Indian  marriage  ritual.  8ft  al*o  Tnitt.  Br.  ii.  J,  i,  of.  I  "• 
allusion  here  made  to  Kama  entering;  the  ocean  recall*  tin'  fuel  thai  AgsJ  ii  often  said 
to  be  produced  from  or  exift  in  the  water*  (U.V.  x.  2.  7 ;  x.  61,  3  ;  x  91,  0  .  I  V. 
i.  33,  1 ,  iii.  21,  I).  And  in  A.V.  iii.  It,  4,  K'.ma  is  distinctly  i.ipnti ti< <1  with  Agai: 
"The  god  (Agnt),  who  it  on.  nn  they  call  Kama,  whom  they  call  the 

giver  and  tho  receiver,  who  is  wine,  strong,  pre-eminent,  unconquerable ;  —  to  that* 
Agni*  let  tain  oblation  be  offered"  (ya  *7ro  rurHd  y»m  n  kdmsm  aAsrr  yea*  o&raroaa 
praiiarikmmttm  akuh  |  yo  ttVirah  jaknh  paritrkur  a/Kbkyas  tthky  fniikyo  km/am 
«(r  flat).    See  olio  S.V.  ii.  1060  (  =  A.V.  ri.  86.  3;  Taj.  Sanh.  xii.  117)  ayaiA 

priyttku  JkilMam  knmo  hhuUty*  lhatytfya  |  itmrod  tio  rinijmli  |  '*  Agni.  Kama, 
tho  one  monarch  of  thing*  part  and  fti'.im-,  bUm  hi  liwdear  abodca."  SaealeoTeitt, 
Sanh.  u.  2,  3,  1.  Agntyi  Kimiya  "  To  Agni  Kama,  etc"  &m  alio  the  ptsaages 
cited  by  Professor  Weber,  lad.  Stud.  t.  225, *f.  In  tone  part*  of  tbo  hymn  befor* 
n»,  (A.V.  ii.  3)  tha  same  identification  of  Kama  with  Agni  appear*  to  be  mule. 
Thu*  in  r.  1,  Kami,  and  in  t.  8,  Kima  nnd  other  gods,  are  aald  to  be  worshipped 
with  bnttar,  an  oblation  especially  appropriate  to  Agni.  In  WW,  4  and  0,  Agai  is 
called  upon  to  burn  the  dwelling* of  the  araraUppsr'l  cn-mie*.  whom  Kima had  jutt 
beea  besought  to  drutruy.  Again,  in  r.  26,  the  auapicioui  bvdica,  or  aoanifctutkina 
(I4»tak)  a(  Kima  are  referred  to  jmt  a*  thote  of  Agni  ore  in  other  hymn*  (a*  R.V. 
x.  16,  4 :  A.V.  niii.  4,  10  .  cmii.  V.j.  [  On  the  other  hand,  bowers?, 

Agai  U  tpaoiflad  leriaraKly  from  Kama  in  t.  6 ;  and  in  v.  24,  Kama  u  uptuaautad  as 
aarpcrior  to  Agai,  a*  well  aa  to  Vita.  Saryi,  and  Chandnuru*  (tho  moon).  la  r.  9, 
lodra  ami  Afctu  art-  mentioned  alung  with  Kima,  though  tbv  rcrb  with  which  Umso 
gods  are  conarctod  it  in  the  dual.  Out  although  in  tbaw  vitm»  Agai  and  Kama  an 
diauoguuihad  from  each  other,  Kama  may  be  there  looked  upon  aa  a  rapertar  form  of 
the  other  deity. 
*••  Compare  Mrain.  Bohtlingk  and  Rotli'i  Lexicon,  *.r.  kkst. 


404 


KAMA. 


jattAm  seragalAm  avartim  \  ugrak  liunak  prati  muneha  tn*tnin  yo  atmt- 
bhyain    airihuranA    chikittut    |    4.    tfudutea    Kama    pranudatea    Kama 
avartlim  yantu  mama  ye  sapatnAh  \  teiltAm  r.uttunAm  adhamU   tttmiim 
Agne  lAtlHiii  nirdaha  tvam  \  i.  Sa  t*  KAtna  duhila  dkenur  nehyaU  yim 
ahur  FAchath  Larayo  Vitiijam   \  tayA  MpatnAn  pari  vrifidhi  ye  m« 
pari  ttu'in  piunah  padava  jhanam  vrinaklu  |  .  .  .  .   7.   Viire  tUcuk  mm 
nAtkam  bhacanlu  earve  dexAh  haram  A  yantu  me  imam   |    8.  Idam  Ajyai 
ghrilavaj  jmhSaSh  Kama-jyeththAh  iha  mAdayadkeam  \  krinranto  makytm 
atapatnam  era  |  9.  IndrAgni  Kama  saraUtam  hi  bhuira  nlcfmih  tapatm* 
mama  pvdayulhak  |  teth&m  panHAnAm  adhamA  tamAmei  Agne  cAitQmi  an 
nirdaha  tvam  |  10.  Jahi  team  Kama  mama  ye  eapafnAk  andha  tamdmei  art 
pAdayainAn  \  nirindriyAh  aratuktantu earre mj  UjXeuhuh  ftatamack  ekani- 
huh  |  11.  AiadhU  KAmo  mama  ye  aapalmik  unfit  lukam  akarad  ra«iiyj* 
edhatum  \  mahyam  namantdm prndidai chatatro  makyam  thad  urrlr ghpitm 
d  inhiinhi  |   12.  Te  adharAnehak  pra  plavantafh  ehhinnA  naurira  bandka- 
nAt  |  na  tdyaka-praautldnAm  pumtr  a*ti  m'rartanam  |  .  .  .  .   16.   Tat  ti 
Kama  iarma  trivanltham  udbhu  brahma  tarma  vilatatn  anatiryAdhyak\ 
kritatn  \  taia  tapatnAn — |  17.  Yena  devdh  asurAn  prAnudanta  yememdn 
daeyt'in  edhamam  tamo  ninaya  |  lena  tvam  Kftma  mama  ye  tapatntU  tda 
aunAl  lokAt  pra  nudatra  duram  |    19.  KAmo  jajne  prathama  wuhA 
dttih  Apu/i  pitaro  na  martyuh  |  tatai  team  aii  jyayAn  cidvoAd  makAtiu 
tusmai  te  Kama  namcik  it  krinvmi  |   20.   Yavati  dy&cu-prilhivl  rarimni 
yui-ad  6 pah  tithyadur  yAvad  Agnih  \  tat  oh — |    21.   Yutatir  diiak  pre- 
difo  riihiiehir  yutatlr  AdAk  abhichakshan/'ih  divai  |  tatak — |  22.  YAraiir 
bhrittgdh  Jatvttk    kurArato  ySvatlr    rnghah    trihkatarpyo     babhuiub    | 
tatak — |  23.  JyayAn  nimithato  '*!ti  iiihfhata  jyAyan  tamudrod  o-ei  A'Ame 
Manyo — |  24.  Na  vai  V&tai  eiann  Kilmam  apnoti  nA/ptih  iAr<jo  net* 
chandramAh  \   tatak — |   25.   Yus  te  iivAs  t-anrah  KAma  bhadrAh  yAbmk 
taty/im  bharatt  yad  trinUkt  |  tAbhit  tvam  atmAn  abhitamriiotra  anyat 
pAplr  apa  rssaya  dhiyak  \ 

"  1.  "With  oblations  of  butter  I  worship  Kama,  ***  the  mighty  alaj 
of  enemies.     Do  thou,  when  lauded,  beat  down  my  foes  by  thy 
might.    2.  The  sleeplesanesa  wliieh  is  ili^pk-using  to  my  mind  and  eye, 

*■  Id  thn  Tailt.  Sr.  ti.  8,  S,  8,  S'raddlui,  nr  faith,  ii  Mid  to  be  the  n»a4 
KimM  \iraildhdm  k-ima>yi>  malaram).     Thi».  however,  the  eommentAtor  explain*  m 
*ijrnifj-itjpf  mrrrly  that  »bc  is  the  mtana  of  ubUdaina;  all  decired  inwards,  siooc  BO 
action  take*  plucc  unlcw  men  licivc  faith  (<a  iyam  iehka  riMea-eytirekenm  ketyf 
ryataharaiya  aoAurutf  "  Kamuiya  mataram''  iumymiitepAalasya  x//ViJiJta* 


ft*** 
iyatr« 


UM  L 


•102 


-which  harasses  and  docs  not  delipht  me,  that  aleeplessnpja  I  let  looso 
upon  my  enemy.  Having  prsiw-d  Kama,  may  I  rend  him.  3.  Kama, 
do  thou,  a  fierce  lord,  let  loose  sleeplessness,  misfortune,  childlessness 
homclcssneas,  and  wont,  upon  him  who  designs  us  evil.  4.  Send  them 
away,  Kama,  drive  thorn  away ;  may  they  fall  into  misery,  those  who 
are  my  enemies.  When  they  hare  been  hurled  into  the  nethermost 
darkness,  do  thou,  Agni,  bum  up  their  dwellings.  6.  That  daughter 
of  thine,  Kiima,  is  nnme4  the  Cow,  which  sages  call  Vnch  Yirftj.  By 
her  drive  away  my  enemies.  May  breutb,  cattle,  life,  forsake  them. 
....  7.  May  all  the  gods  be  my  defence ;  mny  all  the  geds  attend 
upon  this  my  invocation.  8.  Ye  [gods],  of  whom  Kama  is  the  highest, 
accepting  this  oblation  of  butter,  be  joyful  in  this  place,  granting  me 
deliverance  from  my  enemies.  9.  India,  Agni,  and  Kama,  mounted 
on  the  same  chariot,  hurl  ye  down  my  foes;  when  they  have  I 
iota  the  nethermost  darkness,  do  thou,  Agni,  burn  up  their  dwellings, 
10.  Kama,  slay  my  enemies;  cast  them  down  into  thick  (literally, 
blind)  darkness.  Let  them  all  become  destitute'  of  power  and  vigour, 
and  not  live  a  single  day.  1 1.  Kims  has  slain  my  enemies,  has  modi 
for  me  wide  room  and  prosperity.  May  the  four  regions  bow  down 
to  me,  and  the  six  worlds  bring  fatness.  IS  (-A.V.  in.  6,  7).  Let 
them  (my  enemies)  float  downwnnh  like  a  boat  severed  from  its 
moorings.  There  is  no  return  for  those  who  have  been  put  to  I 
by  our  arrows  ....  16.  With  that  triple  and  effectual  protection  of 
thine-,  o  Kama,  thst  spell  (brahma),  which  has  been  extended  [in  front 
of  us  as]  armour,  and  made  impenetrable,  do  thou  drive  away,  etc.  (as 
1b  r.  6).  17.  Do  thou,  Kama,  drive  my  enemies  far  from  this  world 
by  that  [same  weapon,  or  amulet]  wherewith  the  gods  repelled  the 
A  suras,  and  Indra  hurled  the  Dusyus  into  the  nethermost  darkness.'*' 
(Verse  IS  is  nearly  a  repetition  of  verso  17.)     19.  Kama  was  born  the 


*••  In  A.V.  Tiii.  6,  3,  mention  li  mule  of  *  jewel  or  amulet,  "by  which  Iodra  slew 
Vrittra,  overcame  the  Anno,  and  coaqocra*  hewren  sad  atria,  and  the  fwtr  rvgioai" 
(*«iw>iro  m*ni*r,  rriHrrtm  uhamn  iMnMrl*  parahkarayi  evMuAi).  Ami  in 
|  V  .  ii  H,  6  ff.  w«  »r»  told  of  another  instrument  ot  o*J«n<*  belonging  t«  ladra,  ia 
addition  to  tho  thunderbolt,  arrow*,  and  hook,  deetrihtd  ia  th*  B  V.  (aw  above, 
p.  »7  l)  viz., a  nM.  6.  " Tha  air  vat  bit  art;  and  the  frost  rtfione  (da  rods  for 
tyfrrW-g  the  not,  Eodoiinr.  vilhia  it  the  boat  of  the  Dasjus,  S'akra  OTenrbcinait 
it.  7.  Great  is  the  act  of  thee  who  art  great  O  heroic  Iodra!  ....  Withia  it 
esdonng  them,  S'akra  alsw  a  kundrad,  a  woaand,  tea  thoajsaad,  a  haadrcd  —'lltrtt 
of  Daiyut,  with  bit  amy." 


406 


KAMA. 


first  Him  neither  gods,  nor  Fathers,  nor  men,  have  equalled. 
Mi  superior  to  these,  and  for  ever  great.  To  thee,  Kama,  I  off* 
reverence.  20.  Wide  aa  are  the  heaven  ond  earth  in  extent ;  far  as 
tho  waters  have  swept ;  far  aa  Agni  [has  biased] ; — thou  art  yet 
superior  to  these  (as  in  verse  19).  21.  Great  as  are  the  region*  and 
the  several  intermediate  regions,  the  celestial  tracts,  and  the  vista*  of 
the  sky, — thou  art  yet  superior,  etc.  22.  As  many  bees,  bats,  reptiles, 
vaghns  (?),  uud  tree-scrpenta  aa  there  arc,  thou  art  yet  superior,  ete. 
23.  Thou  art  superior  to  all  that  winks,  or  stands,— superior  to  the 
sea,  0  Kima,  Maayu.  Thou  art  superior,  etc  24.  Even  Yfita  (the 
Wind)  does  not  vie  with  Kama,  nor  does  Agni,  nor  Sfirya,  nor  Chand- 
ramna  (the  Moon).  Thou  art  superior,  etc.  23.  With  those  ansj 
and  gracious  forms  of  thine.,  o  Kama,  through  which  that  which  thou 
choosctt  becomes  real, — with  them  do  thou  enter  into  us,  and 
malevolent  thought*  away  somewhere  else," 

A.V.  xix.  52,  is  another  hymn  addressed  to  the  same  deity. 

It  ia  well  known  that  Greek  mythology  connected  Era*,  tho  god  of 
love,  with  the  creation  of  tho  universe,  somewhat  in  the  same  way  as 
Knma  is  nsnoeinted  with  it  in  R.V.  x.  129,  4  (see  above,  p.  337). 
Thus  Plato  *ays  in  the  Symposium  (Bee.  G) : 

rouijt  yap  "Eptoros  Hut    'nvlv  oVre  Xtrfovrat  'inr'  ouSevoc  oi/re 

i&tcinou  owe  itoiijtov,  oXA*  'fTfTioSoc  irpariov  ftfv  \iuk  <pt}ff\  yeviaQai^ 

"aurap  errtira 

faC  evpiMTTtpVOS,  TTt'tVT&V  eSof  <i<70>aAu  «*<*• 

WEfKK." 

#ijo-l   ficra   to  x4m  &v°  toi/tcj  yeveo-ffat,   yijv   rt   ml  "Eporra. 

riapna>iBr)$  Si  rifif  yevetrtv  Xeyet,  "  vpanurrov  fiiv  "Eptara  9t*m 

fii)TUTaro  nravrmv."     'Uait&tp  &i  xn'i  '  A/cov<ri\tw  6/icXoyrt.     6\ 

•xoWayoOev  ofioXoyttrai  6  "EpoK  iv  toi?  wo€o-,Si/raTO*c  iivat. 

"  Eros  neither  had  any  parent*,  nor  is  be  said  by  any  unlearned  man 
or  by  any  poet  to  have  had  any.  Bat  ITisiod  declare*  that  chaos  first 
arose,  and  '  then  the  broad-bosomed  earth,  ever  the  firm  abode  of  all 
things,  and  Eros.'  He  says  that,  after  <hao«,  these  two  things  wers 
produced,  the  earth  and  Eros.  Pnrmenide*,  too,  speaks  thus  of  tho 
creation,  'He  devised  Eros  the  first  of  all  the  gods.'  And  Aenrilau* 
also  agreed  with  Hesiod.    From  so  many  quarters  is  Eros  admitted  to 


TtftU, 

_ 


: 


KAIJ\,  OR  TIME. 


407 


be  ono  of  the  oldest  deities."  (Sea  the  article  Eros  in  Or.  Smith'* 
Dictionary  of  Greek  and  Roman  Biography  and  Mythology,  and  the 
authorities  there  referred  to.) 

In  another  hymn  of  the  A..V.  (iii.  25),  Kama,  like  the  Eros  of  the 
Greek*,  and  Cupid  of  the  Latins,  is  described  as  the  god  of  sexual  lore. 
The  ©ommoncaaaent  of  it  ia  as  follows : 

Uttuda*  tod  uUudatu  md  dhrilhdh  iayatu  $t*  |  is/tub  Kamatya  yd 
bhtmd  tayd  tidky&mi  trd  hridi  |  2.  Adhlparndm  Kdma-salyam  iihum 
$aidtalpa-kulmaldm  |  iam  tuianxalilih  kritfii  Kilmo  ridhyalu  tod  hridi  | 
8.   I'd  ptlkinam  iothayati  KHmatytahub  iwanwW  | .  .  .  .  tayd  lidhy&mi 

m  hridi  \ 

"  1 .  May  the  disquietcr  disquiot  thee.  Do  not  rest  upon  thy  bed. 
With  the  terrible  arrow  of  Kama  1  pierce  thee  in  the  heart  '2.  May 
Kama,  baring  well  directed  the  arrow  which  is  winged  with  pain, 
barbed  with  longing,  and  has  desire  for  its  shaft,  pierce  thee  in  the 
heart  3.  With  the  well-aimed  arrow  of  Kama,  which  dries  up  the 
spleen,  ....  I  pierce  thee  in  the  heart"  •" 


(17)  K&U,  or  Tim*. 

In  tho  next  two  remarkable  hymns  wo  find  an  altogether  new  doe- 
trine,  as  Time  Is  there  described  as  tho  source  and  ruler  of  all  things : — 

A.V.  xix.  53 :  *•*  1.  Kith  aiva  vahati  taplaraimih  tahatrAktko  ttjara 
bhirirttdh  |  tarn  a  rohanti  kaiayo  ripaithitat  tatya  th-ikrA  bfwtvanHni 
tiieU  |  S.  Sapla  ehakrH  cabal  i  JTalab.  t*ha  taptuiya  nubh'tr  amritam  n* 
akthah  |  in  imil  risvil  bhuvamini  arvCtl  Kdlah  *a  lyaU  prat  homo  »n 
tUtah  |  3.  Purdah  kumbho  udhi  K&li  it  hi  tat  tarn  rai  paiyamo  bahudha 
nu  lantam  |  la  i'mu  ci'ird  bbueanani  prat y an  K&lam  tarn  ahuh  parama 
ryoman  |  4.  Sa  *ta  tarn  bhwanuni  abharat  ta  era  tarn  bbuanani 
parysit  \  pita  sohm  abharat  pulrah  atbim  Uumod  vai  n&nyal  param  ttti 
Ujah  |  5.  KaU  'mum  divam  ajaaayat  K&UK  imSh  prUhivlr  uta  |  KuUn* 
bhitam  bhavyam  tha  iihitam  ha  vi  tiththaU  |  6.  Ktilo  Miami*  atrijaU 
K&U  tapati  ttryah  \  Kilt  ha  cihd  bhutaiti  KuU  thahhur  vi  pafysti  \ 
7.  Kaia  manah  Kale  praaah  Kiila  muma  tamdhitam  |  Kiiltna  tarxAi 

m  Tab  hywa  is  translated  fcj  Profuuoe  Wcbcr  in  hit  Indifchs  Studicn,  t.  TU  ST, 
from  whoa*  T0f»no  I  a*«o  dorivad  *sti*Uncc, 

m  A  gnat  daal  is  wid  about  tho  potency  of  KlU,  or  Timo,  la  tho  8*unti-psrfa  el 
tho  MshibMraU,  tt.  9106,  8112,  fllftiff.,  6133-81*4,  8768,  9877  f.,  100*0, 


408 


KALA,  OB  TIME. 


nandnnti  Saalena  praj&h  imSh  |  8.  K&U  lepah  KdU  jyuhthaft 
Brahma  lamOhitam  \  Killo  ha  tarraeyeharo  yah  pil&  "til  PrajilpaUk  f 
0.  TeiuMtafi  Una  jfitaih  tad  k  tatmin  pratuhfhitan  \  Killo  A*  Brahma 
Mfftf  Mfurti  /V«we*4fAi'n4«t  |  10-  K'ilah  pra/ah  atnjalm  Kilo  aan 
Prajiipatim  \  Srayambhoh  A'.ih/.ipah  KdLtt  lapah  Kfila a"  ajiiyoU  | 

*'  1.  Time  carries  [us]  forward,  a  steed,  with  seven  rays,  &  thousand 
eyes,  umloeaying,  full  of  fecundity.     On  him  intelligent  sages  mount ; 
his  wheels  ore  all  the  worlds.     2.  This  Time  mores  on  seres  wheels; 
he  has  seven  naves ;  immortality  is  his  axle.     He  is  nt  present  all 
these  worlds.     Time  hastens  onward,  the  first  god.     3.  A  full  jar  is 
contained  in  Time.    "We  behold  him  existing  in  many  forma.    He  is  all 
these  worlds  in  tho  future.   They  call  him  Time  in  the  highest  heaven. 
4,   It  in  he  who  drew  forth  the  worlds,  and  encompassed  them.    Bring 
the  father,  he  became  their  son.  There  in  no  other  power  superior  to  him. 
o.  Time  generated  the  sky  and  these  earths.    Set  in  motion  by  Time, 
fht  past  nnd  the  future  subsist.     6.  Timo  created  tlie  earth ;  by  Time 
tlie  sun  burns ;  through  Timo  all  beings  [exiBt]  j  through  Timo  the  eyt 
sees.     7.  Mind,  breath,  name,  are  embraced  in  Time.     All  these  orm- 
turcs  rejoice  when  Time  arrive*.    8.  In  Time  rigorous  abstraction,  in 
Time  the  higheBt,  in  Time  divine  knowledge,  is  comprehended.     Time 
is  lord  of  all  thing*,  he  who  was  the  father  of  PrujapatL     9.  That 
[universe]  has  been  set  in  motion  by  him,  produced  by  him,  and  is 
supported  on  him.    Time,  becoming  divine  energy,  support*  Paramesh- 
thin.     10.  Time  produced  creatures  ;  Time  in  the  beginning  [formed] 
Prajapati.     Tho  self-bora m  Kasyapa  sprang  from   Time,  and  from 
Time  [sprang]  rigorous  abstraction  (tapas)." 

A.Y.  xix.  54,  1.  Kalai  &pah  aamabhatan  Kdlud  brahiia  tape  ditah  J 
EHmodeti  S&ryo  Kale  ni  viiate  punah  |  3.  Edltna  %-atah  pat  alt  Kilonm 


**  Tlic  won!  which  I  bare  rendered  "self-bora''  is  irtrpimbKu.  This 
in  certain  ease*  be  rendered  by  "self-eri«U>nt,"  u  in  Mann  i.  ft- II,  whir*  it  a 
applied  to  the  undi'Tftlopnl  primeval  Duty,  the  creator  of  BiahmL  la  other  pbuia, 
however,  Brshmii  himself,  the  derived  creator,  is  called  trayamiM,  m»  in  M.  Bk> 
S'nntip.  r.  7569,  thvugh  he  bad  previoody  (in  v.  7530)  been  declared  to  hare  been 
burn  in  u  Iota  ipning  from  tho  navel  of  Sanksnhaoit,  th«  firrt-bera  ofapriaa; 
(v.  7627)  nf  Yulnjn.  The  tame  epithet  is  applied  to  BrabroS  in  the  Bhag.  Par. 
iii.  8,  16.  But  in  Tact,  Smyamb/iu  u  well  known  to  be  one  of  the  tynocirnu  of 
Brahma,  though  that  god  is  nowhere  represented  as  an  nnderired,  »elf-«skteat  hang. 
Thi*  word  must  thorcforo  bo  regarded  as  not  nccr—rily  ncining  anything  mow  tha* 
one  who  oomi»  into  existence  in  an  extraordinary  and  siipernttural 


KAL.V.  OB  TIME. 


«'i 


Prithivl  mahX  |  Dyaur  niahi  Knit  ahil&  |  3.  A'd/o  Aa  MfiSaai  WjryaiS 
eta  mantro  ajmuyat  purQ  \  K&Ud  fithak  tamabhatan  yajtth  K&ISi 
tj&yata  |  4.  Knit  yajmxih  lamairayan  dtvtbhyo  bhugam  akthitam  \  Kol* 
fandhariftpiaraiak  K<ih  fohlh  pratukfhihik  |  5.  Kale  'yam  anginik 
diva  atharvd  chddhi  tuhfhatah  \  imam  cha  lokam  paramam  tha  lolam 
pvnytlmi  cha  lohln  ridhfitti  chm  punyHi  |  6.  Strtan  lokan  abhijitya 
brahmay/l  Killah  $a  \yatt  parano  mm  dtrak  | 

"  1.  From  Time  the  waters  were  produced,  together  with  divine 
knowledge,  tapoa,  and  the  regions.  Through  Time  the  huo  rues  nod 
again  tats.  2.  Through  Time  the  wind  blows ;  through  time  the 
earth  is  vast.  The  greet  sky  is  embraced  in  Time.  3.  Through  Time 
the  hymn  formerly  produced  both  the  part  nnd  the  future.  Prom 
Tiroo  sprung  the  Rik  verse*.  The  Taj  us  was  produced  from  Time.  4. 
Through  Time  they  created  the  sacrifice,  an  imperishable  portion  for 
the  gods.  On  Time  the  Gandharvos  and  Aptarases,  on  Time  tho 
worlds  are  supported.  5,  6.  Through  Time  this  Angiros  and  Athar- 
van  rulo  over  tho  sky.  Having  through  divine  knowledge  conquered 
both  this  world,  and  the  highest  world,  and  tho  holy  worlds,  and 
the  holy  ordinances,  yea  all  worlds,  Time  mores  onward  as  the 
supremo  god." 

Kohita  ia  identified  with  K'da,  A.V.  xiii.  2,  39. 

The  conception  of  Kala  in  these  hymns  is  one  which,  if  taken  in  its 
unmodified  shopc,  would  have  been  esteemed  heretical  in  later  times,  *•* 
Thus,  among  tho  several  forms  oi'  speculation  which  are  mentioned  at 
the  commencement  of  the  SVetaJvatara  Upanishad,  for  the  purpose,  no 
doubt,  of  being  condemned  as  erroneous,  is  one  which  regards  Kulu,  or 
Time,  as  the  origin  of  all  things.  Tho  line  in  which  these  different 
systems  are  mentioned  is  aa  follows :  kalah  tvabkaeo  niyatir  yadfichhu 
bhatdnt  yonik  punuhak.  It  is  the  verse  referred  to  in  the  following 
note  of  Professor  Wilson,  in  vol.  i.  p.  19  of  his  Yishyu  Puriiga(Dr.  Hall's 
cd.) :  "Tho  commentator  on  the  Mok»ha  Dharma  (a  part  of  tho  Slinti- 
purra  of  the  M.  Bh.)  cites  a  passage  from  the  Vedas,  which  he  under- 


m  Tbe  M.  Bti.,  however,  Anu&aana-parra,  venca  MM,  stilta  llniva,  or 
death,  declare  tbut  all  nature,  all  crcuturca,  the  world  iuclf,  all  action*,  r»— timii 
and  changes,  derive  their  essential  character  from  Time,  whils  ike  gods  taasssarfes. 
Indadins;  Vishnu,  are,  tim«  after  tiro*,  crwtsd  and  dettrojred  hy  the  same  power  (aarw 
kifma  rrvynU  kriy**t*  tha  pumih ptmth). 


410       GENERAL  REMARKS  ON  THE  PRECEDESO  PASSAGE* 


stands  to  alludo  to  the  different  theories  of  the  cause  of  creation  (thai 
follow*  the  Hoe  just  quoted) ;  time,  inherent  nature,  consequence  of 
net*,  self-will,  elementary  atoms,  matter  and  spirit,  asserted  severally 
by  the  astrologers,  the  Buddhists,  the  Mlmunsekaa,  the  logician*,  Uu 
Sankhyas,  and  the  VedantinB.""* 

The  Mnitrt  Upaniahad  also  eelebmtes  Kala,  vi.  14  f.,  declaring  Uut 
the  sun  is  ite  source  (t'iryo  yonih  baiatya).  Wo  rind  there  the  follow- 
ing verse :  kalat  aravaiiti  IKituni  kalad  rridiiim  proyumti  eha  \  hale 
cltdttam  niyachhmiti  lalo  murlir  amQrt.iman  |  "  By  Time  creatures 
waste,  by  Time  they  increase ;  in  Time  they  set :  Time  is  a  formless 
form."  The  writer  proceeds  :  Die  vBra  Brahma^o  ripe  Kihi  tit 
AUlai  tha  |  atha  yah  prag  Adily&t  «►  'Wo  'k&Iah  |  athm  yah  Aa*iy4- 
iyak  *a  Ktlleh  nak&lah  |  "  There  are  two  forms  of  Brahma,  Time  and 
No-time.  That  which  is  before  the  son  is  No-time,  devoid  of  parts . 
and  that  which  is  subsequent  to  the  sun  is  Time,  with  parte," 

Ifanu  (i.  24)  declares  Kaln  (Time)  to  bBve  been  one  of  the  thing* 
created  by  Brohinfl.  But  though  not  admitted  as  itself  the  origin  of  all 
things,  Kfila  is,  nevertheless,  recognized  by  the  author  of  the  Vishnu 
i'urniKi  an  one  of  the  forms  of  the  Supreme  Being.  See  pp.  18,  19,  and 
25,  of  Dr.  Hall's  edition  of  Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  and  the  note  m 
p.  19,  ulrvedy  referred  to,  where  Professor  Wilson  says.  "  Time  is  not 
usually  enumerated  in  the  Puranaa  as  an  element  of  the  '  first  canto;' 
but  the  Padma  Pun'uja  and  the  Bhngavata  agree  with  the  Vishnu  in 
includiuR  it.     It  appears  to  have  been  regarded,  at  an  earlier  date,  as 

Impendent  cause."      See  the   Bhsp.  Pox.  iii.  5,  34-- 
11  ft". ;  iii.  10,  10-13 ;   in.  11, 1  fL;   iii  19,  1  ff.     We  thus  find  the 
authors  of  the  I'uiaijaa  interweaving  with  their  own  cotmoganjea  all 
the  elder  elements  of  speculation  which  they  discovered  in  the  Vnlns; 
and,  by  blending  heretical  materials  with  others  which  were 
orthodox,  contriving  to  neutralize  the  heterodoxy  of  the  former. 


(18)  General  remarks  on  the  preeedmg  ptmeytt. 

A  few  general  observations  arc  suggested  by  a  consideration  of 
principal  passages  which  have  been  quoted  in  this  section. 


-*  "Kfini  was  «W  sdd»  Prof.  Wilton, 
(Ttmtinn,  according  to  tit  QrpVic  tbcogoaj." 


one  of  the  Am  gtntntud 


WHAT  WAS  THE  EARLIEST  FORM  OP  ARYAN  RELIGION  f    411 


I.  The  conception*  of  the  godhead  expressed  in  the*  text*  an  of  a 
wavering  aod  undetermined  character.  It  u  clear  tbat  the  authors  had 
not  tttnoHJI  '■'  ■  BaHnsi  and  togjoal  MiiiimbMaiDfl  of  Ihq  >  li  ir.n  t.  r- 

ittica  -which  they  ascribed  to  the  objects  of  their  adoration.  On  the 
one  hand,  the  attributes  of  infinity,  omnipotence,  omnipresence,  are 
ascribed  to  different  beings,  or  to  the  sumo  being  under  the  various 
names  of  Purusha,  Skambha,  Brahma,  Hiranyagarbha,  etc  (R.V.  x. 
90,  1  ff. ;  x.  121,  1  ff.  A.V.  x.  7,  10,  13.  31-33 ;  x.  8,  1).  And  yet 
in  other  places  these  same  qualities  are  reprcittntod  as  subject  to  limi- 
tations, and  these  divine  being*  themselves  aro  said  to  expand  by  food, 
to  be  produced  from  other  beings  (as  Puruaha  from  Viraj),  to  be  sacri- 
ficed, to  bo  produced  from  tapas,  or  to  perform  tapas  (R.V.  x.  90,  2,  4, 
7.  A.V.  x.  2,  12  ff.,  26;  x.  7,  31,  36,  38). 

II.  In  these  passages  divine  power  is  variously  conceived,  sometimes 
as  the  property  of  one  supreme  person,  as  Puruaha,  Skambha,  etc ; 
while  in  other  places  it  is  attached  (1)  to  some  abstraction,  as  Kama 
(Desire),  Kila  (Time),  or  (2)  to  some  personification  of  energies  re- 
aiding  in  living  beings,  as  Prinu  (Life  or  Breath),  or  (3)  of  tho 
materials  (Uchhiahta)  or  the  implement*  (j-jIim,  upabhrit,  etc)  of  sacri- 
fice, or  is  ascribed  (1)  to  tho  vehicles  of  adoration,  to  hymns  and 
metres,  such  as  the  Viraj,  which  is  said  (A.V.  viii.  10  1)  to  have  been 
identical  with  tho  world,  or  {5)  to  tho  guardian  of  sacred  science,  and 
future  minister  of  religious  rites,  tho  BrahmachArin.  It  need  occasion 
no  surprise  tbat  the  young  priest  should  be  regarded  as  invested  with 
such  transcendent  attributes,  when  even  the  sacrifices  which  bo  was 
being  trained  to  celebrate,  the  hymns  and  metres  in  which  1m  invoked 
the  gods,  and  the  very  sacrificial  vessels  he  handled  were  conceived  to 
possess  a  supernatural  potency. 

We  find  here  a  singular  variety  in  the  elements  of  thought  and  feel* 
ing  which  have  concurred  to  give  birth  to  this  crude  congeries  of  ideas, 
in  which  the  real  centre  of  divine  power  is  obscured,  while  a  multitude 
of  inferior  objects  aro  magnified  into  unreal  proportions,  and  invested 
with  a  fictitious  sanctity.  But  these  extraordinary  representations  reveal 
to  us  in  the  Indians  of  the  Vedic  age  a  conception  of  the  universe 
which  was  at  once  (a)  mystical  or  sacramental,  (J)  polytheistic,  and  [«) 
pantheistic ;  (a)  everything  connected  with  religious  rites  being  im- 
agined to  have  in  it  a  spiritual  as  well  as  a  physical  potency  j  (4)  all 


412       PICTF.T8  VIEW  OP  THE  EARLIEST  ARYAN  RELIGION. 

parts  of  nature  being   separately  regarded  as   invested   with  divine 
power;  and  yet  (c)  as  constituent  porta  of  one  great  whole. 


(19)  Whether  polylheiem  or_  monolheiim   wot  the  earliest  form 
Aryan   religion :  opinion*  of  Ifturi.  Pictct,  Pfleiderer, 
Skille,  and  Jloth  on  thit  tubjeet. 

I  ihall  odd  some  remarks  on  the  relation  of  tbe  Vedio  poly  theism  to 
tho  earlier  religion,  which  wo  may  suppose  to  hare  prevailed  among 
the  primitive  Aryans. 

M.  Adolphc  Pictct,  in  his  work  "  L^s  Origincs  Indo-European©*," 
rol.  ii.,  has  Intcly  discussed  the  question  whether  that  religion  was 
from  the  first  a  polytheism,  embracing  the  principal  powers  of  nature, 
as  comparative  philology  shows  it  to  have  been  about  the  time  of  th« 
separation  of  the  different  branches  of  the  race,  or  whether  it  had  beta 
originally  monotheistic. 

He  thinks  that  as  a  polytheism,  such  as  we  find  existing  at  the 
dawn  of  Aryan  history,  could  only  have  been  developed  gradually,  it 
must  have  been  preceded  by  a  more  simple  system  (p.  651).  This 
ice  he  supports  by  the  remark  that  tho  names  of  moat  of  the  gods 
iu  the  Aryan  mythology  correspond  with  those  of  the  great  object*  of 
nature,  dwigtmtcd  by  some  of  their  most  characteristic  attributes. 
But  as  these  natural  objects  have  derived  their  appellations  from  their 
physical  qualities  alone,  they  could  not  originally,  at  the  time  when 
they  received  their  names,  have  been  regarded  as  divinities.  If  nature- 
worship  had  prevailed  among  the  Aryan*  from  tho  commencement, 
some  trace  of  this  fact  must  have  been  preserved  in  their  lnngnagt, 
wli irli,  however,  manifests  nothing  but  the  most  complete  realism 
aa  regards  the  epithet*  applied  to  natural  phenomena.  A*  it  Urns 
appears  that  the  great  object*  of  nature  could  not  have  been  regarded 
as  divine  at  the  time  when  the  language  was  formed,  the  Aryans  could 
not  originally  have  been  polytheistic.  It  is  not,  however,  to  fce 
imagined  that  a  race  so  highly  gifted  should,  even  at  this  early  period, 
have  been  destitute  of  all  religious  sentiment*  and  beliefs.  But  if  net 
polytheists,  they  must  have  been  monotheirt*.  This  conclusion  M. 
Pictet  corroborates  by  referring  to  the  most  ancient  names  of  the  deity, 
such  u  Detei,  etc.,  which  he  regards  as  in  their  origin  unconnected 


REMARKS  ON  M.  HCTF.rS  VIEWS. 


413 


with  natural  object*  or  phenomena.     This  primitive  monotheism  of  the 
Aryans  he  supposes  to  huve  arisen   from  the  necessity  which  they 
instinctively  felt  to  refer  the  production  of  the  world  to  one  first  Cause, 
which  they  would  naturally  place,  not  on  earth,  their  own  familiar 
abode,  but  iu  the  mysterious  and  inaccessible  heavens.     This  supreme 
being  would  thus  bo  colled  Deta,  or  the  celestial;  and  as  tho  heaven 
which  he  inhabited  was  one,  so  would  lie  himself  also  bo  conceived  of 
M  qu  Unity.     This  primitive  monotheism,  however,  could  not  havo 
been  very  clcnrly  defined,  but  must  have  remained  a  vague,  obscure, 
and  rudimentary  conception.    It  would  not  otherwise*  be  easy  to  under- 
stand how  it  Bhould  have  degenerated,  into  polytheism.     But  aa  tho 
idea  of  God  remained  veiled  in  this  mysterious  obscurity,  it  became 
necessary  for  the  worshippers  to  seek  for  some  divinities  intermediate 
between  Him  and  themselves,  through  whom  they  might  approach 
Him  ;  and  to  explain  tho  multiplicity  of  phenomona  (which  they  were 
not  aa  yet  sufficiently  enlightened  to  derive  from  tho  uniform  action  of 
one  central  will),  by  regarding  them  as  regulated  by  a  plurality  of 
divine  agents.     At  first,  however,  tho  polytheism  would  bo  sunpl'-, 
and  the  subordinate  deities  composing  the  pantheon  would  be  con- 
sidcrtd  as  the  ministers  of  the  one  supremo  deity.     Such  may  huvo 
been  tho  state  of  things  whoa  tho  different  branches  of  the  Aryans 
separated.    Tho  polytheistic  idea,  howevor,  when  once  it  had  begun  to 
work,  would  tend  constantly  to  multiply  tho  number  of  divinities,  at 
we  see  it  has  alrtwdy  done  in  tho  Vedic  age.     So  great,  however,  is 
the  power  exercised  over  the  human  mind  by  the  principle  of  unity, 
that  the  idea  of  one  Supreme  Being,  though  obscured,  is  never  loat,  but 
is  always  breaking  forth  like  a  light  from  tlie  clouds  in  which  it  is 
enveloped.    The  traces  of  monotheism  which  ore  found  in  tho  Itig- 
veda  may,  perhaps,  M.  Pictct  thinks,  be  reminiscences  of  the  mora 
ancient  religion  described  above,  though  tho  pantheistic  ideas  observ- 
able, whether  in  the  myths  or  in  the  speculations  of  the  samo  hymn- 
collection,  arc  tho  results  of  a  new  tendency  peculiar  to  the  Indian 
intellect.     While,  however,  tho  Indians  thus  eventually  fell  into  pan- 
theism, the  Iranians  bad,  at  as  earlier  period,  embraced  a  reformed 
system,  not  dualistac,  as  is  commonly  supposed,  but  monotheistic  ;  and 
the  religious  separation  which  then  took  plaes  between  the  two  tribes 
may  have  had  its  origin  in.  a  reaction  of  one  section  of  the  nation 


41-i 


P.KMAHKS  ON  M.  PICTKTS  VIEWS. 


■gainst  the  growing  polytheism,  and  a  recurrence  to  the  principle*  of 
the  old  monotheism,  of  which  the  remembrance  had  not  been  altogtlbt  j 
lost  (pp.  708  fiT.). 

I  scarcely  think  that  M".  Pictot's  theory  regarding  the  character  of 
the  primitive  religion  of  the  Aryans  is  borne  out  by  the  argument* 
which  he  adduces  in  its  support. 

1 .  It  may  be  quite  true  that  the  complicated  polythe issn  which  we 
find  in  tho  hymns  of  the  Rig-veda,  or  even  the  narrower  system  which 
we  may  suppose  to  have  existed  at  the  separation  of  the  Indian  and 
Iranian  tribes,  could  only  have  been  the  idowly-developcd  product  of 
many  centuries;  but  this  docs  not  prove  that  a  simpler  form  of  na'.urt- 
worahip,  embracing  a  plurality  of  gods,  might  not  have  existed  among 
the  ancestors  of  these  tribes  from  tho  beginning  of  their  history.  I  can 
sen  no  reason  for  the  conclusion  that  monotheism  must  necessarily  hare 
been  the  starting  point  of  the  system. 

2.  Again,  the  fact  that  the  great  objects  of  external  nature,  tho  sky, 
tho  earth,  the  sun,  were  designated  in  tho  oldest  Aryan  language  by 
names  descriptive  merely  of  their  physical  characteristics,  supposing  it 
to  be  admitted,  would  not  suffice  to  establish  M.  Piotoft  inference  that 
no  divine  character  was  attributed  to  those  object*  at  the  time  when 
they  were  named.  Though  wo  suppose  that  the  sky  (Jyu  or  sVr) 
derived  its  appellation  from  its  luminous  appearance,  the  earth  (pfiilutl 
or  mahx)  from  ita  breadth  or  vaetness,  and  the  sun  (rirya  or  #sr i/ri)  from 
its  brightness  (Pictet,  ii.  667)  and  fecundating  power,  it  does  not  follow 
that,  though  familiarly  called  by  these  names,  they  were  not  at  tho  same 
time  regarded  as  living  powers,  invested  with  divine  attributes.  How 
strong  soever  may  have  been  the  religious  feelings  of  the  primitive 
Aryans,  howover  lively  thoir  sense  of  the  supernatural,  and  boweres* 
forcibly  we  may  therefore  imagine  them  to  have  been  impelled  to  deify 
tho  grand  natural  objects  by  which  they  were  surrounded  sad  over- 
awed, it  is  obvious  thai  ical  impressions  mode  by  those  object* 
on  their  senses  would  be  yet  more  powerful  (in  proportion  a*  they  wars 
more  frequent  and  more  obtrusive);  and  that  consequently  the  sky, 
earth,  sun,  etc.,  even  though  regarded  as  deities,  would  naturally  ha 
called  by  names  denoting  their  external  characteristics,  rather  than  by 
other  appellations  descriptive  of  the  divine  attributes  they  wore  sap* 
posed  to  possess. 


PFLEIDERER  ON  PRIMITIVE  FORM  OP  RBLIGIOUS  DBL1KF.     415 

If  on  etymological  argument  of  this  sort  were  to  bo  considered  as 
nettling  the  question,  we  might  in  like  manner  insist  that,  because  the 
word  Yaruna  means  (or  is  supposed  to  swan)  tho  enveloper,  it  muac 
therefore  in  the  beginning  have  designated  the  sky  alone  (as  the  corres- 
ponding word  oiipavos  afterwards  did  in  Greek),  and  could  not  hare 
been  tho  name  of  a  divinity.  But  this  conclusion,  however  it  may 
appear  U>  be  confirmed  by  Greek  usage,  receives  no  support  from  the 
moot  ancient  Indian  literature,  in  which  the  word  ib  never  employed 
for  sky. 

In  such  inquiries,  moreover,  it  i*  unsafe  to  build  too  much  on  ety- 
mologies, many  of  which  are  in  themselves  extremely  uncertain. 

I  will  quota  some  remarks  bearing  upon  this  subject  from  Dr.  Otto 
Pfleidercr's  book,  "  Die  Religion,  ihr  "W'esen  und  ihre  Gescbiohte," 
ii.  45  ff.  (Leipzig,  1 S69),  received  while  this  work  was  passing  through 
the  press:  "  Wo  thus  see  that  in  this  original  form  of  piety"  (Uio 
conception  of  heaven  and  earth  as  the  principal  divinities),  "there 
already  exist  general  powers,  to  whioh  tho  devout  spirit  is  directed, 
powers  which,  in  consequence  of  their  relative  infinitude,  wore  well 
calculated  to  present  and  render  comprehensible,  to  tho  childlike  spirit, 
the  idee  of  absolute  infinity.  It  is  on  this  account  that  purely  moral 
emotions  were  possible  in  this  original  form  of  religion,  and  connected 
with  that  divine  worship,  although  we  are  not,  therefore,  in  soy  way 
led  to  assume  that  men  had  any  thought  of  a  divine  being  distinguished 
from  heaven  and  earth,  in  the  form,  for  instance,  of  a  creative  god, 
enthroned  in  the  heaven*.  From  tho  fact  that,  in  our  own  case,  the 
idea  of  a  God  can  be  only  awakened  and  symbolized  by,  but  never  identi- 
fied with,  the  visible  infinity  of  heaven  and  earth,  we  can  draw  no 
conclusion  as  to  the  original  period  of  humanity :  for  to  the  childliko 
contemplation  of  the  earliest  races,  the  heaven  and  earth  were  not,  what 
they  are  for  us,  for  the  educated  understanding,  a  system  of  finite- 
causes  standing  in  a  relation  of  orderly  reciprocal  action  to  each  other ; 
but  living  beings,  endowed  with  soul,  acting,  after  the  manner  of  men, 
with  knowledge  and  will,  to  whom  consequently  men  could  quite 
properly  pray  with  tho  firm  belief  that  they  would  bo  heard,  and  their 
wishes  granted.  Such  a  primeval  childlike  naif  prayer  we  find  in  the 
Ycdas :  '  Father  Heaven,  gracious  mother  Earth,  brother  Fire,  ye 
shining  ones,  have  compassion  en  ua'  (see  above,  p.  22,  mote  32). 


416 


SCHERER  OX  THE  EARLY  ARYAN  RELIGION. 


liv  li.;:- 

ienc*  of 
|  «f 

■22 


The  Athenians  prayed  at  a  still  later  time:  'Bain,  rain,  O  dear 
Zeus,  down  upon  the  cultivated  land*  and  field*  of  the  Athenians,' 
on  which  Max  Miillcr  strikingly  remark*  that  this  prayer  i»  <learir 
mMri^scil  to  ttl  (WlWtWn  ;<tmo-|'twrK  '  k<\-.  though  Hsf,  rnfrr  ivlii- 
tion  of  'dear'  in  '0  dear  Zeus,'  is  sufficient  to  change  the  sky  into 
a  personal  being.  The  same  is  the  case  with  a  primeval  Chilian 
prayer:  'Oblue  Heaven,  look  down  npon  the  proud,  and  hare  com- 
passion on  the  wretched.'  The  contents  of  thia  prayer  presuppose  a 
spiritual  being,  which,  however,  is  by  the  adjunct  '  blue'  eaafly  iden- 
tified with  the  visible  vault  of  heaven.  Max  Midler  (Science 
Language,  ii.  ll.lff.)  hero  raises  the  question  whether  tho  id. 
tho  word  for  heaTen  and  for  god  is  to  bo  explained  (1)  by  sa( 
that  the  word  at  lint  merely  expressed  the  conception  of  tho 
object  heuven,  and  that  tho  appellative  noun  so  fixed  was  transferred 
to  the  idea,  which  arose  afterwards,  of  God,  as  a  being  enthroned  in 
the  highest  heaven,  as  one  of  the  possible  names  of  this  aa  yet  name- 
less being ;  or  (2)  by  supposing  thnt  the  conception  of  heaTen  and  that 
of  G  i  n  puratvly  from  tho  first  in  the  human  consciousness, 

and  were  only  in  consequence  of  their  resemblance  (the  tartium  com- 
parationis :  clearness,  elevation,  infinity)  both  expressed  by  the  sane 
word  with  the  signification  of  shining.  In  both  these  modes  of  ex- 
planation tlie  relation  between  god  and  heaven  appears  to  be  conaklarad 
in  a  fashion  too  external,  and  too  much  resulting  from  reflection.  W» 
must  therefore  rather  conceive  it  thus:  Called  into  being  by  the  sen- 
suous impression  of  the  shining,  lofty,  boundless  heaven,  the  aente  of 
tho  Divine  Being  was  stirred  into  activity  in  the  human  spirit,  and 
whilst  the  imagination,  which  moulded  speech,  expressed  that  i 
impression  by  the  word  heaven,  it  at  the  same  time  and  in  tho 
indivisible  act  expressed  the  devout  movement  of  tho  spirit  by  tha 
same  word,  as  the  name  of  the  (highest)  god.  Tha  distinction  which 
wo  now  make  between  these  two  things,  and  which  is  the  main  causa 
of  the  difficulty  wo  experience  in  understanding  mythology,  had  not 
begun  to  be  mode  by  the  imagination  of  the  earliest  men,  who,  when 
they  pronounced  the  word  •  heaven,'  applied  it  in  thought  to  a  living, 
animated,  and  active  being,  and  when  they  ottered  the  word  •God,' 
applied  it  to  the  visible,  clear,  blue  heuven." 

On  the  subject  before  us  I  will  also  quote  some  remaiks  by  two 


OPINIONS  OP  SC1IER.EK  AND  REVILLE  ON  THE  QUESTION.     417 


recent  French  writer*.  The  first  of  these  is  M.  Edmond  Schcror,  an 
acute  theologian  and  accomplished  critic,  who,  in  a  renew  of  M. 
Pictet's  work,  thus  expresses  himself:  — 

"  M.  Piotet  distinguishes  in  the  religion  of  the  Aryans  two  elen  1 
contrary  in  appearance,  (1)  a  monotheism  pure  and  elevated,  which 
conceives  the  Deity  us  a  being  distinct  from  the  world ;  (2)  a  poly- 
theism  resulting  from  tho  personification  of  natural  objects,  and  which, 
by  attributing  life  to  these  objects,  creates  an  entire  mythology.  This 
apparent  contradiction  51.  Pictct  explains  by  a  development.  Ho 
thinks  tho  human  mind  must  have  proceeded  from  tho  simple  to  the 
complex,  from  unity  to  diversity;  that  polytheism  has  arisen  from  tho 
need  of  seeking  other  beings  intermediate  between  the  Supremo  Being 
and  man,  and  that  it  has  thus  been  able  to  establish  itself  without 
destroying  altogether  the  first  or  monotheistic  idea.  "Wo  ere  thus 
brought  back  to  the  problem  with  which  M.  llennn  has  dealt  in  his 
afodlM  Oil  thi!  Si-initM  races,  although  with  this  difference,  that  M. 
Kenan  opposed  tho  Semitic,  as  tho  genius  of  monotheism,  to  the  Arya, 
us  the  genius  of  polytheism.  Perhaps  in  both  cases  tho  difficulty 
arises  from  regarding  as  absolute  an  opposition  which  is  merely 
relative.  There  never  has  been,  anil  doubtless  there  never  will  be, 
either  a  pure  polytheism  or  a  pure  monotheism.  Thus  religion  can 
only  be  defined  or  characterised  by  the  prvihuuinance  of  tho  one  of  llio 
two  elements  over  the  other;  and  their  history  consists  less  in  suc- 
cessive phases,  in  their  passing  from  one  form  to  the  other,  than  in  tho 
coexistence  and  tho  struggle  of  two  principles  answering  to  two  re- 
quirements of  tho  human  aoul  which  arc  equally  imperious." — (Mc- 
!  1:     1.  ■•  il'IIi--t";ir  Uclij;u  11-  ,  |'|i.  81  I  ] 

On  the  same  subject  another  distinguished  theologian  of  the  critical 
school,  M.  Albert  KeVLlle,  writes  as  follows  is  the  "  ltevuc  des  Deux 
Hondee"  (Feb.,  1864,  p.  721  f.)  :— 

"  If  wc  had  before  us  positive  facts  attesting  that  tho  march  of  tho 
human  mind  has  been  sueh  (oa  M.  Pictct  describes),  we  should  ouly 
have  to  surrender,  and  admit,  contrary  to  all  probability  a  priori,  that 
man,  while  still  sunk  in  the  most  profound  ignorance,  was  better  ab!o 
to  grasp  religious  truths  than  he  was  at  the  epoch  when  he  began  to 
reflect  and  t  >  know.  But  have  these  facta  any  existence  ?  80  loug  as 
none  eon  be  alleged  which  have  a  demonstrative  force,  ought  we  not  to 

27 


418 


VIEWS  OF  PKOFESSOB  BOTH 


hold  to  the  hypothesis,  confirmed  by  so  many  analogies,  of 
elevation  of  religion  (us  of  ull  the  other  sphere*  in  which  the  human 
mind  moves),  from  the  simplest  elements  to  the  most  sublime  concep- 
tion*?" Again:  "It  i*  evident,  and  fully  admitted  by  M.  Pirtet, 
that  our  ancestors  were  polythciata  before  their  separation ;  but  at  that 
period  this  polytheism  was  not  of  yesterday.  It  had  already  Lad  a 
history;  and  it  is  a  matter  of  coarse  that,  in  the  historical  development 
of  a  polytheistic  religion,  there  must  have  been,  as  it  were,  games, 
germs,  presentiments  of  monotheism.  From  the  moment  v] 
plurality  of  divine  beings  is  recognised,  9  community  of  divine  nature 
between  thorn  all  is  also  admitted.  In  this  way  arise  such  epithets  as 
'luminous,'  •adorable,'  'living,'  'mighty,'  which  in  courae  of  lime 
become  subrtnntivo*,  like  our  word  '  Dieu '  itself!  The  aky,  per- 
sonified,  and  become  an  object  of  adoration,  speedily  usurps  the  charac- 
teristics of  a  supremo  Deity,  elevated  above  all  others,  and  nutter  of 
an   irrexialiblii  weapon,  tlm  th  mi   most  mythologies 

the  sky  iB  what  it  is  in  that  of  tho  Greeks,  the  Jupiter,  the  sovereign 
I  of  gods  and  men.  In  short,  it  is  char  that  the  human  mind,  in 
proportion  M  it  observe*  and  reflect*,  rise*  more  and  more  towards 
monotheism,  in  obedience  to  that  imperious  law,  hidden  in  the  depth* 
of  its  being,  which  lead*  it  ti>  the  logical  pursuit  of  unity.  But  this 
movement  is  very  slow,  greatly  retarded  by  the  force  of  tradition  and 
habit,  mid  Vfl  ought  not  to  place  at  the  beginning  Unit  which  can  only 
hv  found  at  the  very  ond  of  tho  process." 

11  conclude  with  an  extract  from  Professor  K.  lfoth'a  Essay 
the   "  Highest  gods  of  tho  Aryan  races,"  (Journal   of  the   Germ 

'.,  vi.  7iif.),  in  which  that  able  writer,  while  (. 
that  ii  n  of  thosu  tribe*  in  its  earlier  stages  contained  a  more 

spiritual  element,  (striata  was  eventually  preserved  in  a  modified  torn 
by  the  Zoroustriun  <  >gnixcs,  as  also  embraced  in  that  elder 

religion,  a  system  of  nature- wor-hip  which  :i:;ir« aids  became  the  m 
prominent  element  iu  the  In.liiui  mythology.      We  must,   therefi 
regard   Ruth   nl*o  as  opposed  to    M.  Pictet't   theory  of  a   primiti 
monotheism.     The  greater  purt  of  till*  passage  has  been  already  gi 
in  ;i  former  section,  pp.  1 17  f. ;  but  it  is  advisable  that  tho  larger  portion 
of  it  should  be  repented  here,  with  tho  addition  of  the  introductory 
paragraph,  from  the  bearing  of  tho  whole  U]>on  the  present  discu- 


:: 


ON  THE  ritlMlTIVE  ARYAN  RKUGION. 


419 


"  Bat  that  which  still  further  cnbnnccs  the  interest  of  this  inquiry, 
and  is  of  especial  importance  in  reference  to  tho  primitive  period,  is 
the  peculiar  character  ;>t  |bj  conception  of  tho  Aditya*. 

Tho  names  of  those  deities  (with  n  certain  reservation  in  regard  to  that 
of  VYiruna)  embrace  no  ideas  drawn  from  physical  nature,  but  express 
certain  relations  of  moral  and  sociul  life.  Mitre,  '  the  friend,'  Arya- 
man,  Bhaga,  Ansa,  the  gods  who  'fa rear,'  '  bless,"  'sympathize,'  and 
Dalssha,  *tho  intelligent,'  are  pure  ijMtsj  in  whom  the  noblest  rela- 
tions of  human  intercourse  are  mirrored,  and  so  appear  («V*.  tho  rela- 
tions appear)  as  emonutions  of  the  divine  life,  aud  as  objects  of 
imrmdi.iv  divine  riMto-tion.  But  if  the  earliest  Aryan  antiquity  thus 
beheld  in  it*  highest  gods,  not  the  most  prominent  manifestations  of 
physical  nature,  hut  the  conditions  of  moral  life  and  society,  aud  con- 
niJy  csteen  moral  blessings  more  highly  than  anything 

i.  mm  t.il  -.villi  the  wants  and  enjoyments  of  sense,  we  must  ascribe  to 
that  age  a  high  spiritual  capacity,  whatever  may  have  been  its  dctt- 
j  in  tho  constituents  of  external  civilization. 

•'  These  consideration*  throw  some  light  on  tho  principles  and 
character  of  tho  two  Aryan  religions,  which  bcri  sprung  from  one  and 
the  same  source.  The  religion  of  Ortnuzd  holds  fast,  while  it  shapes, 
after  it*  own  peculiar  fuwhion,  tho  superscasuous  element  called  into 
DM  by  the  higher  order  of  gods  belonging  to  the  common  ancient 
creed,  and  eventually  rejects  almost  entirely  the  deities  representing 
flu  powers  of  nature,  which,  as  well  as  those  of  the  former  class,  it 
had  inherited  from  tho  earliest  period.  The  Vedio  creed,  on  the  other 
hand,  is  preparing  to  concede  the  highest  rank  to  the  latter  class  (the 
representatives  of  the  powers  of  nature),  to  transfer  to  them  an  orcr 
increasing  honour  end  dignity,  to  draw  down  the  divine  life  into 
nature,  and  bring  it  ever  closer  to  man.  Tho  proof  of  this  is  especially 
to  be  found  in  the  myth  regarding  India,  a  god  who,  in  the  earlier 
i  of  Aryan  religious  history,  either  hod  no  existence,  or  was 
confined  to  an  obscure  province.  The  Zend  legend  attributes  t» 
anoth  be  function  which  forms  the  essenco  of  the  later 

regarding  Iudra.  This  god  Trita,  however,  disappears  from  the  Indian 
mythology  in  the  course  of  the  Vudic  ago,  and  Indra  succeeds  him. 
And  not  only  so,  but  towards  the  end  of  this  period  Indra  begin*  to 
posh  aside  even  V arena  himself,  the  highest  god  of  the  ancient  < 


■120 


ItOTB  ON'  TIIE  PRIMITIVE  ARYAN  RELIOIOX. 


from  the  position  which  is  shown,  putly  by  historical  testimonies,  tut 
partly  by  tho  very  conception  of  his  character,  to  belong  to  him,  and 
becomes,  if  not  the  supremo  god,  at  least  the  national  god,  whom  his 
encomiasts  strive  to  elevate  above  tho  ancient  Varuna."  ....  "Thus 
the  course  of  the  movement  is,  that  an  indent  supreme  deity,  originally 
common  to  the  Aryans  (c.«.  the  ancestors  of  the  Persians  and  Indians), 
and  perhaps  also  to  the  entire  Iudo-Gcnnunic  race,  Yaruna-Ormuxd- 
Uranoa,  is  thrown  back  into  the  darkness,  and  in  his  room  India,  a 
peculiarly  Indian,  and  a  national  god,  is  introduced.  With  Vuruga 
disappears  st  the  same  time  the  old  character  of  the  people,  while  with 
Indra  a  new  character,  foreign  to  the  primitive  Indo-Oermanic  nature, 
is  in  an  equal  measure  brought  in.  Viewed  in  its  internal  essence, 
this  modification  in  the  religious  conceptions  of  the  Aryans  consists  in 
an  ever-increasing  tendency  to  attenuate  tho  snpersensuous,  my*terioiu 
side  of  their  creed,  till  at  length  tho  gods  who  were  originally  the 
highest  and  the  most  spiritual  have  become  unmeaning  representatives 
of  nature,  and  Varuyn  is  nothing  mora  than  the  ruler  of  the  sea,  wbQ* 
the  Adityos  are  the  mere  regents  of  tho  Biin's  course. 

"  When  tin'  lii.-lur  and  more  spirituul  >■)■  incut.*  in  the  Indian  erecd 
had  thus  become  so  greatly  reduced,  it  was  inevitable  that  a  r. 
should  ensue,"  etc. 

Although,  towards  the  close  of  the  preceding  passage, 
Roth  spooks  of  an  "undent  supreme  deity"  (ci'm  alter  .  .  . 
Ootl)  aa  "  originally  common  to  tho  Aryans"  it  is  evident  from  the 
entire  context  tbot  hu  does  not  regard  this  ddty  as  their  only  object 
of  adoration,  since  he  recognizes  the  existence  of  a  plurality  of  gods. 
In  the  previous  part  of  his  dissertation,  toe,  Roth  speaks  (p.  70)  of 
the  close  relation  in  tho  Vcdic  era  between  Yuruna  and  unotfaer  god, 
ilitra, —  a  relation  which  ho  holds  to  have  subsisted  from  an  earlier 
period.  And  at  p.  74,  he  refers  to  the  activity  and  dignity  of  Varena 
bdng  shared  by  the  otlur  Adityas,  though  no  separate  provinces  can 
bo  assigned  to  them,  whilo  ho  is  the  first  of  the  number,  and  represent* 
in  himself  tho  powers  of  the  whole  class.  If  this  description  apply  to 
the  ancient  Aryan  nligion,  it  cannot  he  properly  said  to  hare  been 
monotheistic,  though  one  deity  may  have  been  more  prominent 
the  rest. 


SECTION  XXII. 


MISCELLANEOUS  HYMN'S  FROM  THE  RIG- AND  ATHARVA-VEDA8."s 


The  hymna  of  the  Kig-veda  are,  aa  is  well  known,  almost  entirely  of 
a  religious  character,  dcaigned,  or  at  least,  adapted,  for  recitation  at 
the  worship  of  tho  various  Bosnia  deities,  or  at  some  of  the  cere- 
moniuls  connected  with  various  important  events  in  the  domestic  or 
public  life  of  the  ancient  Indians.  Among  these,  however,  ore  inter- 
spersed a  few  of  a  different  description,  which,  from  tho  wido  celebrity 
they  had  acquired,  were  carefully  preserved  by  the  descendant*  of 
their  authors,  or  bj-  other  interested  persons,  and  have  been  incor- 
porated in  tho  great  collection  of  sacred  songs.  Some  of  these  pro- 
ductions, lite  tho  colloquy  of  Yams  and  Yoml  { translated  ubove  in  pp. 
282  ff.),  the  very  obscure  conversation  between  the  hero  Pururuvas  and 
tho  Apsanw  Urvail  (K.V.  x.  wy"  and  the  Vrishakapi  hymn  (K.V.  i. 
86),  derived  their  importance  from  tho  interlocutors  being  personages 
regarded  as  divine,  or  ranked  among  the  ancestors  of  tho  human  race. 
Others,  like  tho  72nd,  the  90th,  and  tho  129th  hymns  of  the  10th 
Book  (also  quoted  above  in  pp.  48  f.,  367  ff.,  and  366  f.)  were  vene- 
rated from  the  nature  of  the  topics  which  they  handled,  or  the  depth  or 
gravity  of  the  speculations  which  they  contain.  Others,  again,  such 
aa  the  hymns  referred  to  by  Professor  Roth,  in  his  dissertation  "on 
tho  historical  matter  contained  in  tho  Big-vedu,"*"  would  possess  aa 

m  I  have  apiin  tn  acknowliil^n  thu  valuable  aid  which  I  have  received  from  Pre- 
fcssoT  Aufrccht  in  rendering  some  of  tho  mora  difficult  parts  of  tli<  bymao  Unwanted 
in  thit  uxtiuu. 

*"  Prefeawr  Max  MoIltVi  Easy  on  Comparntm  Mythology,  in  th«  Oxford 
Eaaajs  for  1830,  nprinud  in  hi*  "  Chipa  from  a  (Jet-man  Workdwp,"  vol.  u.,  remains 
•  tnuaeUtaon  of  ttii*  myth,  as  oorratcd  in  th*  S'alapath*  BrOhmaM.  The  Drib  nun*, 
howtrer,  caIj  qaotc*  and  illuKratc*  the  cawicat  vent*  of  the  hymn  (B.V.  s.  W), 
nuking  no  reference  to  it*  moat  obaenre  and  difflcalt  portiona.  Soom  of  tho  tctms 
not  cited  in  the  Brahmans  art  explained  by  Profeieor  Midler.  Btm  abo  Both'e 
Illnatratioaa  of  the  Niroxta,  pp.  163  ff.  and  230. 

*"  Bur  Litteratiu  and  OeeehichU  dee  Woda,  p.  97. 


422 


HYMN-  TO  AKAXYAvf,   R.V.   x.  146. 


interest  for  the  descendants  of  tho  contending  priestly  races  to  whose 

ii  3  they  mode  allusion,  and  might  oven  be  valued  for  the  per- 

poses  of  imprecation  to  which  they  could   ho  applied.1**     And  tbow 

i-lebrate  the  liberality  of  diflWnt  princwa  to  theif 

domestic  priests  would  jiutumlly  )>u  bunded  down  with  care  by  the 

on  of  I  hose  fuvoured  individuals. 

In  tho  following  Section  I  shall  adduce  some  other  hymns,  both  from 

the  Kin-  and  the  Atharrn-vcdas,  which  are  only  in  part  of  a  religious 

character,  and  possess  a  greater  general  interest  tliuu  the  bulk  of  thoao 

;  thry  an  associated,  from  the  referencea  which  they  make 

to  human  character,  dispositions,  feelings,  paariona,  and  circumstaaets; 

from  the  light  which  they  throw  on  the  progress  of  sacerdotal  p 

Off  from  some  other  feature  of  their  contents.  In  some  of  these 
hymns  it  will  ho  sec  a  that  a  considerable  amount  of  shrewdness  and 
worldly  wisdom  is  expressed  in  a  sententious  form. 


(1)  Hymn  to  Araay  •'>*!,  n.v.  x.  148. 

The  first  hymn  which  I  shall  adduce,  addressed  to  the  goddess  of 
forest  aolitude,  U  distiniruishod  by  tho  pofttfo*]  (Ming  which  pervades 
it,  and  the  natural  manner  in  which  tho  emotions  arising  from  the 
situation  there  described  are  flOflotad,  though  some  of  the  ollarioea 
•which  it  contains  ore  difficult  to  explain  or  comprehend.  It  U  re- 
peated in  the  Taittirtya  H  .  ii.  5,  5,  8  f.,  and  interpreted  by  the 
Commentator  on  that  work.      (See  also  ltoth's   Illustrations   of  the 

Nirukln,p.  ]•'•-')- 

1.  Aranydni  Aranyuni  aunt  yd  pr«w  naiytui  |  kalhH  gr&ma*  nm  gat-kk- 

Mi  na  tea  bhlr  itti  rindati  I  2.   VrUkurardya  tadala  yoJ  ttporati  ekuk- 

ckikak  |  tight  I  Mir  K*  Hkdrayenn  Arany&nir  mahlyat*  |  3.  Ut»  y&wA 

kttimti  uU  rtimec*  driiyaU  \  uU  AratytUik  sayaA  iahttlr  ica  tvrjtti  \ 

4.  Gam  anyaiiht  A  kvayati  dart  anyaUko  apatadk'U  \  ratann  Aramyd- 

nyilfn  tdyam  akruktkad  iti  manyaU  |  5.  N*  rat  Aranydnir  haitti  anyai 

ektn  ndbkiyackkati  |  tiiidok  phalmya  jagdhitya  yatkAk&mt*  nipadyaU  | 

H.  Anjanagandh.  ■>■'•">  'ikriihrjltim   \  prdksm  ■  ri«u- 

g&m  mtilaram  Amnytimm  (uafuukam  \ 

"•  &•;  I  In  let  »ul.  of  tiu»  work,  pp.  J27  sad  143. 


/ 


HTMX  TO  AKANY'AXl.  R.V.  x.  148. 


at 


1,  "Aranjanl,  Araayanl,  thou  who  sccmest  to  loeo  thyself  there, 
why  doBt  thoa  not  ask  [tho  way  to]  tho  village?  Does  not  terror 
seize  theo  (at  thy  solitude)  ?  2.  When  tho  chichchika  (a  bird)  answers 
to  tho  roar  of  bull*  whon  it  is  uttered,  flying  about  as  if  with  •  \  ratals, 
then  Aragy&nl  rejoices.  3.  And  the  cows  teem  to  eat,  and  the  house 
appears  to  be  seen,  and  at  evening  Aranyiinl  teems  to  discharge  the 
carls.  4.  Ono  man  calls  to  his  cow,  another  fells  a  tree  ;  a  man 
dwelling  in  the  forest  (in  Anirjy&nl)  fancies  that  she  [or  some  one] 
has  screamed.  8.  Aranyanl  is  not  [herself]  murderous,  if  no  one 
else  (a  tiger,  etc.)  assails  ;  but,  after  eating  of  sweet  fruit,  a  man 
testa  there  at  his  pleasure.  6.  I  laud  Aranvanl,  tho  mother  of  wild 
beasts,  the  unctuous-scented,  the  fragrant,  who  yields  abundance  of 
food,  though  she  has  no  hinds  to  till  her." 

The  following  is  a  free  metrical  version  of  the  first,  fifth,  and  sixth 
verses  of  this  hymn  : — 

1.  Thou  seemest,  goddess,  here  to  stray 

Forlorn  among  these  trackless  wood", 
These  daik  and  dreary  solitude*. 
Why  dwt  thou  not  inquire  tho  way 
That  leads  to  cheerful  human  hannts  ? 
Is  there  nought  here  thy  courage  daunts  ? 

5.  Herself  this  goddess  doee  not  slay, 
Although  the  nurtures  murderous  beasU  : 
On  luscious  fruits  the  traveller  feasts, 

Supplied  by  her,  and  goes  his  way. 

6.  Itich-accated,  fragrant,  full  of  flowers, 
Her  realm  with  various  food  is  filled ; 
For  though  by  hinds  sho  is  not  tilled, 

8ho  drinks  in  sop  from  heavenly  showers. 


Tho  next  hymn  which  I  shall  quote  refers  to  the  great  variety  by 
which  the  aims  and  pursuits  of  different  men  are  characterized.  It  is 
distinguished  by  a  vein  of  naif  observation,  not  unmingled  with 
satire;  and  is  curious  us  disclosing  to  us  tho  occupations  pursued  by  the 


424     RIO-VEDA,  a.  112,  ON  TOE  YAB1ETY  OP  MEN'S  PURSUITS. 


poet's  father  and  mother,  though  it  makes  no  reference  to  the 
which  they  belonged. 

{2)  Itig-rtia,  ix.  112. 

1.  KnnAnnf,,  im  «  no  dhiyo  vi  tralCni  janAn&m  \  taiiha 
>  iilum  hhithay  brahma  tunrantam  iehhati  Tndruy*  Indo  paruram  \ 
JaraUbhir  oihadh\bhir  pernrbhih  i*k*nAn<lm  |  ktlrmdro  aimabhir  Jyubkir 
hiranyarantam  ichhati — |  3.  Kitrwr  aham  Ma  bhuhag  upalaprnlukitl 
nana  |  nan&dhiyo  raa&yaco  ann  g&h  ira  ttulftima — |  4.  Aho  reftd 
tiikluii'i  rufhaih  Ka&anwa  upamantrinah  \  iepo  rimancantan  btiadou  rir 
in  mandukah  xchhati — | 

"  1 .  We  different  men  hare  all  our  various  imaginations  and  designs. 
The  carpenter  seeks  something  that  is  broken,  the  doctor  a  patient,  the 
priest  some  ono  who  will  offer  libations.  0  Inda  (Soma),  flow  forth  fer 
Tndra.""'  2.  With  dried-up  sticks,  with  bii  Is1  feathers,  with  metals,  and 
fire  [?]  tho  urtixan  continually  IHfei  iftu  si  man  with  plenty  of  gold. 
O  Indu,  etc.,  etc.  3.  (=Nirukta,  vi.  6)  I  am  a  poet,  my  father  is  a 
doctor,  and  my  mofllOZ  U  a  grinds  of  corn.  With  our  different  views, 
seeking  to  get  gain,  we  run  after  [our  respective  objects]  as  after 
cattle.'01  0  Indu,  etc.  4.  The  draught  horse  desires  an  easy-going 
carriage;  merry  companions  a  limgli ;  the  female  sex  the  male;  nnd 
frog*  a  pond.     0  Indu,"  etc. 

I  add  a  free  metrical  rendering  of  these  verses : — 

Mrn's  tastes  and  trades  are  multifarious. 
And  so  their  ends  and  aims  are  various. 
The  smith  seeks  something  cracked  to  mend; 
Tho  leech  would  fain  have  sick  to  tend. 
The  priest  desires  a  devotee, 
From  whom  he  may  extract  his  fee. 


*°  Tlii*  latt  flume,  which  m  repeated  at  tho  end  of  cock  of  the  verses,  a 
form*  tho  hymn  into  an  odilrta*  to  Sums,  it  perhaps  a  later  addition  to  an  older  soexi 
as  it  oecraa  to  hare  no  connection  with  the  other  port*  of  Ike  verse*  to  which  is  at 
attached. 

*>'  The  three  preceding  vanes  era  translated  by  Both,  in  bis  Ulwtntktta  of  the 
Nirektu,  p.  74. 


BIG-VEDA.  X.  34,  ON  TEE  MISERIES  OF  GAMBMXO.  425 

Each  craftsman  make*  and  vend*  his  ware, 
And  hopes  tho  rich  man's  gold  to  share. 
My  Rire  *s  a  leech ;  and  I  a  bard  ; 
Com  grinds  my  mother,  toiling  hard. 
AH  craving  wealth,  wo  each  pursue, 
By  different  means,  the  end  iu  view, 
Like  people  running  after  cows, 
WMoh  too  far  off  have,  strayed  to  browse. 
The  drought-horse  seeks  an  easy  yoke, 
The  merry  dearly  like  a  joke, 
Of  lovers  youthful  belles  arc  fond, 
And  thirsty  frogs  desire  a  pond. 


(3)  liiy-veda,  x.  34. 

Tho  next  hymn,  which  may  possibly  be  the  production  of  one  who 
lays  before  us  tho  sad  result*  of  his  own  bitter  experience,  describes 
with  great  vividness,  graphic  power,  and  truth  of  observation,  the 
seductions  and  miseries  of  gambling,  which  we  see  were  as  acutely  felt 
by  their  victims  in  thi>«  early  ages  as  they  are  in  these  later  times. 

1  (,—Nirukta,  ix.  8).  PrtitepAh  m&  brikata  mAdayanti  prarAttjAh 
trine  tartfitAnAh  \  tomasya  ha  Maujatatatya  bkaktho  cibhldako  jAgrhir 
mnhyan  aehhSn  |  2.  Na  ma  miinetha  najiklU  t*hu  tied  aakhibkyah  uta 
moAyain  6»U  |  aktkaiya  aham  ckaparatya  tutor  a/mtratdm  apa  juyAn 
arvdham  J  3.  Dc<*h{i  ieair&r  apa  jAy&  runaddhi  na  nAtkito  rindata 
mardituram  |  afratya  tea  jarato  vamyatya  wham  tind&mi  Manny* 
bhagam  |  4.  AnyejaySm  pari  mriianti  atya  yaiya  agridkad  redan*  r«/« 
aithak  |  pita  mOta  bhrAtarah  enam  A.hur  na  jA*\mo  nayata  baddAam 
ttatt  |  6.  Tad  ddfdky*  na  daritkani  tbhih  parayadhAyo  ata  Alye  takki- 
bhyah  I  nyuptai  tha  babhravo  tatham  akrata  mi  id  **&£&  nuAkfitaift 
j&rtnl  ita  |  fi.  SabA&at  tti  kitmak  prichkanAno  jtthyAni  iti  tantil 
iuinjanah  |  akthilto  atya  ri  tiranti  kumam  pralidicne  dadhalah  a 
kritAni  |  7.  Akth&tih  id  anluJino  nitodino  nikrittAnai  tapan&t  (apt- 
yuhaarak  |  UutiiradttfnAk  f'ayatak  punarkano  madkcA  tampriktAh  kita- 
waiya  barhana  \  8.  TripancltAiak  krilali  vrAtak  ukdm  iatak  in  taciiA 
aatyadkarmd  |  ttyratya  chid  wwnyore  na  namanU  raja  chid  ebhyo  nana  A 
it  krinoti  |  9.  Nlcka  tartante  upari  ipkuranti  akattata  AattacanUHk 


KICVEDJk.  «.  Xi,  OS  THE 


OF 


dahtmti  |   10.  Jiyt  iff**  hUtuy  MM  wMU  /  \f  i|i 
•ard  hMjaf  ilamu  iMammn  ajiilli  ^af 

•  i y*m  iritkfrSf*  ttmm*  UtSf*  aput*  >if* 
jmm»  |  ^irr^V  <M  r-y,-  fa"  *•*•>«•  a  «y«r  «b 
«tf*i  :    12.  1*  »a  aateir  aaafe  ■  ■!■!■  f*»  a«Da 

nAn  |    13.  AhUir  mi  i*yi  truldm  it  Ij  immmm  ntu  raw 
■■yliil  |  Uirm  f*n4  UimmMmjiM  tmi  a»  a  rimift 
'f*m  €rf*k  |   ML  Milnm  trimmttmcm  Uaa  mriUU  a>  a«  ~  j 
timvUU*  dp^ff*  luw«  mamjm  tmtiim  trit*  I 
Jlllll    —a fc| 

rae  taa&at; ,  «r-bca  [proaaa]  cflkpM 
(•Lft  the  £»)  delight  at  »  they  cootiaae  to  ra3  m  the 
TW  mifcg  fie*  am  t»  a*  Ek*  »  da^fct  af  tie 
•  ■mtlijtM.   tSW(ft>|i.iif'i»t »wia) 
vdha-deaaaaae.    She  w  kaJ  a  — b  —d  f  ay  f     I      fed  I, 
la  the  ate  ef  the  pntkl  dice,  mm  yi  aj  ai  iea»l  «f— ■     & 

■mbb  m  toe  gimtnirT  nsy  m  ukma.  t  cm  perrexw  vM  m  ur  aspptv 
as^araMat  hack  ham  «.  Other*  toy  out  to  the  wife  c*  tht 
mb  via*  veafch  a  cavrted  by  the  iajitiai  fiee  Ha  father, 
aether,  hrethen,   or  •*.  •  W«  kaar  aeckaa;  af  has  ;   take   aa 


Way, 


,-ytt 


rhta 


METRICAL  VERSION  OF  RIG-VEDA,  x.  «. 


•127 


Iho  wralh  even  of  the  fiercest.  The  king  himself  makeB  obeisance  to 
them.  9.  They  roll  downward ;  they  bound  upward.  Having  no 
li:iul\  they  overcome  him  who  has.  Those  celestial  coals,  when 
thrown  on  the  diceboord,  scorcli  the  heart,  though  cold  themselves. 
10.  The  destitute  wife  of  the  gamester  is  distressed,  and  so  too  is  the 
mother  of  a  son  who  goes  she  knows  not  whither.  In  debt  and 
seeking  after  money,  the  gambler  approaches  with  trcpidution  the 
ho  lues  of  other  people  at  night.  11.  It  fWt  the  gamester  to  sec  his 
own  wife,  and  then  to  observe  tho  vv.;  ■  uu.l  happy  homes  of  others. 
In  the  morning  he  yokes  the  brown  horses  (the  dice) ;  by  the  time 
when  the  fire  goes  out  he  lias  sunk  into  a  degraded  wretch.  12.  Ho 
who  is  the  general  of  your  band,  the  first  king  of  your  troop, — to  him 
I  stretch  forth  [my]  ten  [fingers]  toward  the  east  [in  reverence}  :*•  I 

tdo  not  reject  wealth,  but  I  declare  that  which  is  right  (when  I  ray): 
13.  Never  play  with  dice:  practice  husbandry;  rejoice  in  thy  pro- 
perty, esteeming  it  sufficient.  'There,  o  gamester,  are  thy  cows; 
[this  is]  thy  wife;' — so  the  adorable  r>ovitri  addresses  mc.  11.  Bo 
friendly  [o  dice];  bo  MMJpkfaM  to  us;  do  not  bewitch  us  powerfully 
with  your  enchantment.  Lot  your  wTath  and  hostility  abate.  Let 
others  be  subject  to  tho  fettcis  of  the  brown  oucs  (the  die 

Tho  following  it  an  attempt  freely  to  reproduce,  in  verse,  the  spirit 
of  this  composition : — 

These  dice  that  roll  upon  thv  board. 

To  me  intense  (Might  .iH'..r.l. 

Sweet  Soma-juico  has  not  more  power 

To  lure  me  in  an  ovil  hour. 

To  strife  and  wrangling  disiiiclim.il, 

My  gentle  wife  was  always  kind  : 

Bat  I,  absorbed  in  maddening  play, 

Have  i  baaed  ttiia  t.  note  upouse  awi 

8be  now,  in  turn,  my  person  spurns;  » 

Her  mother's  wrath  against  me  burns : 
Distressed  and  vexed,  in  vain  I  plead, 
For  none  will  help  me  in  my  need. 

•■  Co«psro  A.V.  v.  28,  II,  sad  Vij.  S*nk.  xtL  64. 


METRICAL  VKRSIOX  OF  RIG-VEDA,  x.  34. 


As  wretched  as  a  worn-out  back's, 
The  gamester's  life  all  joyance  looks. 
His  meant  by  play  away  nrc  worn, 
While  gallants  court  hie  wife  forlorn. 
His  father,  mother,  brothers  shout, 
"  The  madman  bind,  and  drag  him  out." 
At  times,  the  scorn  of  every  friend, 
I  try  my  foolish  ways  to  mend, 
llcsolvc  no  mora  my  means  to  waste 
On  this  infatuated  taste : 
But  all  in  Tain : — when,  coming  war, 
The  rattle  of  the  dice  I  hear, 
I  rush,  attracted  by  their  charms, 
Like  lady  to  her  lover's  arms. 

As  to  his  game  the  gambler  hiea, 

Onee  more  his  hopes  of  winning  rise; 

And  loss  but  mora  his  ardour  Ores ; 

To  try  his  luck  ho  never  tires. 

The  dice  their  victims  hook  and  tear, 

Disturbing,  torturing,  false  though  fair. 

The  transient  gains  they  yield  to-duy 

Are  all  to  morrow  swept  away. 

These  sportive  dice,  a  potent  band, 

The  destinies  of  men  command. 

They  laugh  to  scorn  the  fierce  man's  frown ; 

Before  them  doughty  kings  bow  down. 

They  downward  roll,  they  upward  bound, 

And,  handless,  men  with  hands  confound. 

They  scorch  the  heart  like  brands,  these  dice, 

Although  themselves  as  cold  as  ice. 

The  gambler's  hapless  wife  is  sod  ; 

His  mother  mourns  her  wayward  lad. 

In  want,  at  night  he  seeks  relief 

By  graceless  shift*,  a  trembling  thi>  I. 

He  groans  to  sec  his  wretched  wife, 

And  then  tho  happy  wives  and  life 

Of  others,  free  from  care  and  strife, 


QUOTATIONS  FROM  THE  ATHABVA-VF.DA  OX  GAMBLING     429 


His  bod  career,  with  morning  light 

Begun,  in  ruin  ends  by  night 

To  him,  the  chief  who  lead*  year  bands, 

To  Dice,  I  lift  my  suppliant  hands ; 

"  I  hail  thy  gifts  when  thou  art  kind, 

Hat  crare  thy  leave  to  speak  my  mind. 

Forgive  me,  king  of  all  the  dioe, 

If  thus  I  give  my  friend  adfi 

'  Abnndon  piny,  and  till  the  soil, 

For  this  shall  better  pay  thy  toil. 

Well-pleased  with  wbnt  thou  bust,  forbear 

To  crave  of  wealth  an  ampler  share'  " 

"  Thy  wife,  thy  kinc, — in  these  rejoice," 

Thus  cries  a  god  with  warning  voice. 

Be  gracious,  Dice,  wo  now  implore ; 

Bowitcb  as  with  your  spells  no  more. 

From  us  withdraw,  to  us  be  kind, 

And  other*  with  your  fetters  bind. 
That  the  passion  for  gambling  prevailed  very  extensively  at  the  timo 
when  the  hymns  of  the  Rig-  and  Atharva-vedas  were  composed  is  clear 
from  Tarious  other  allusions  to  the  practice  which  we  find  there.  Thus 
in  H.V.  vii.  86,  6,  dice  are  mentioned  along  with  wine,  anger,  thought* 
lesaness,  etc.,  as  causes  of  sin  (see  above,  p.  6G).  The  following  verses 
from  the  Atharvu-veda  prove  the  same  point: — 

A.V.  vii.  50,  1.  Yathtl  rrikiham  aianir  rihdhd  hanti  apraii  \  ev&han 
adya  litetdn  aktkair  badhyutam  apraii  |  2.  Turdndm  atur&n&m  ri'iun 
atarjutklniim  |  aamaitu  riivato  bhago  anlarkaUaih  kritam  mama  | 

"1.  At  the  lightning  every  day  strikes  the  tree  irresistibly,  so  may 
I  to-dity  irresistibly  smito  the  gamesters  with  the  die*.  2.  Kay  tho 
wealth  of  the  rich  snd  of  the  poor  unresistingly  be  collected  from  every 
side  into  my  band  as  winnings." 

vii.  109,  1.  Idam  ugrdya  babkrar*  name  yc  ahhrih*  tan»rail  |  ghri- 
Una  iniiift  Wuhdmi  sa  no  mpd/lti  Idrth  |  2.  Ghritam  Aptarukkyo  taka 
tram  Agne  pdrntUn  aktktbhyah  ii'&iMA  apoi  rha  \  yatit&bhtigaw  karya- 
dulim  juikumih  madanti  detuh  ubhaydni  hacyd  |  3.  Aptaraiak  ladka- 
mdaVn  maianti  karirdhunam  antard  mryan  cka  |  MA  m*  kaitau  mm* 
iri/antm  gkyittna   tapatnam    me   kitazaih  randhayanttt  |  4.  AaVnaiaM 


430     QUOTATIONS  FROM  Til£  ATIIABVA-VEI>A  ON  GAMBLING. 


pratidlrne  ghrittna  aimdn  aihi  kthara   \   tfiksham   iiaianyti  jahi 
tum&n  pralidlryati  \ 

"  1.  This  reverence  be  pnid  to  tho  brown  [die],  who  in  nilcr  at 
the  dice.  With  butter  I  worship  the  Kali ;  Btftj  be  thus  be  auspicious 
to  us.  2.  Bring,  o  Agtii,  butter  to  the  Apsarases,  but  dust,  sand,  nod 
witter  to  the  dine.  Seeking  oblations  according  to  their  several  shares, 
tho  gods  daligat  in  both  offerings.  3.  Tho  Apsarases  hold  a  festival 
between  the  oblation  and  tin-  ion.  Way  they  anoint  my  hands  with 
butter,  and  DTanri  gUMsttf  who  is  my  (JppUlMOlt.     4.  Dis- 

pense bad  luck  to  our  adversary,  but  moisten  us  with  butter.     8trikc, 
as  lightning  does  a  tree,  the  man  who  plays  against  n 

vi.   118,   1.  Yad  luuUihhyilm  chukrinui   fa'lliishilni  alAhilndfli  ganem 
\   |   Ugrampa£y$  UgrajHau  tad  adyGptartitGo  anu 
r.  in n'n  ,..</;   | 

"  I.  Whatever  sius  wo  have  committed,  with  our  hands,  Decking 
obtain  tho  host  of  dice,— remit  to  us  to-day  that  debt,  yo  A] 
TJgrampaiya  and  Ugrojit." 

iv.  38,   1.    UdbhindaMh  tanjayenilm  np*nr&m  tGdhuInmlm  \  gUK 
irifuni  Irinra H&m  aptaruiii  tan  iha  hurt  |   2.  Vichhititt'tm  GkiranHn 
epwrGm  nAdfiudrvinim  \  glahe    kritGni  gjrihnnnnm  cp*ari\*t — |    8. 
Gyaih  parinfityali  GdadtinG   kj-ilam  gMwt   |   »&   nah  kfilani  »1iA 

in  iipnotu  mGynyu    |  *d  nah  payamati  aitu  mS  no  jai$hvr  tdam 
(iiiuiiiim  |   -J.  I'ri/i  »Ili<rih<  pramodanU  iuchath  krodh,  :>!irati 

anandinixi  pmmodinim  apianlm  IGm  iha  hurt  | 

"  1 .  I  invoke  hither  tha  skilfully-ploying  Apsaras  who  cuts  np 
conquers,  and  gets  gains  in  the  game  of  dice.     2.  I  invoke  hither 
skilfully-playing  Apsaras  who  collects  and  scatters,  and  receives 
in  the  game  of  dice.     3.  May  she  who  dances  about  with  the  dice, 
when  she   wins  by  gaming,  grant  gain   to   us,   and   obtain  success 
through  her  skill.     May  she  come  to  us  with  abundance  of  food.     Let 
them  not  conquer  this  money  of  onrs.     4.  I  invoke  hither  tho  joyful 
and  exulting  Apsaras  —  those  [goddesses]  who  delight  in  dice,  one1 
who  cherish  grief  and  anger." 

It  will  bo  wen  from  these  verses  that  the  Apsarnses  are  intimately 
connected  with  Rumbling.  In  A.V.  ii.  2,  4,  they  aro  wiid  to  bo  "fond 
of  dice,"  luul  soul-bewitching"  {nkthakGmdh  manomiiFia/i). 

The  next  two  hymns  which   I   proceed  to  quota  ore  in 


iP  sod 

erthc 

gains 

i  dice, 


praise  of 


MO-VEDA,  x.  117.  IN  PRAISE  OP  LIBERALITY. 


generosity.  Tlio  first  of  them  celebrates  liberality  to  the  destitute  in 
general;  tho  second  eulogizes  the  same  virtue  when  exhibited  in  giving 

pramta  hi  pdi  ••; ..•. 

(I)  Rig-ttda,  x.  117. 

1.  Na  tai  u  dctuh  kthudham  id  emttuifi  dadur  utaiilam  upa  gaManti 
mrityatah  |  utv  rayih  pfinato  nopa  datyati  utilprinan  ntardilaraiii  n<t 
tiudat*  |  2.  Yah  udhrdya  chakatnundya  pit  to  annatdn  tan  raphitdya 
Vpajagmuth*  \  tthirain  m/i»  ftftll  purtl  ulo  chit  M  Marti 

na  tindate  |  8.  8a  id  bhejo  yo  grihatt  dadiili  annabltniy*  chorale 
kriixiya  |  aram  tumai  bharati  ydviahutd  utilparUhu  kfinute  irOJi6yaa  | 
id  u .'Ail  yo  na  dadati  takhyt  tethilbhun  taehanunuya  pittati  | 
mpa  titmut  preyud  tin  tad  oko  anti  pf  intuit  am  anyam  aranaHi  chid  ickhtt  | 
.'>.  rrinlyud  in  iiiuHrminnilya  l/ityi'i*  dragk\y&fiuam  an*  paiyeta  paa- 
thOm  |  o  hi  nirtniile  rathyQ  tea  ehairn  anytim  anyam  upa  //*/'. 
rrlyn*  |  C.  ihgham  annatk  tindate  aprachetG^  tatyam  braclmi  radhoh  it 
m  tatya  \  na  aryamanam  puthyali  na  takhOynfit  ktralSgho  bharati 
kill  |  7.  KfUhann  it  philhh  aiitaSi  krindi  yann  aancdnatn  aya  tfiulU 
charitraih  \  radan  brahaiu  aradalo  ctvtryau  prininn  t'pir  aprinantaai  abhi 

8.  Ekapi  hipado  tichakrame  dsipCt  trif&dam  «.'..' 

pakhat  |  chatuthpdd  tti  dupad&m  abhierart  eampaiyan  panttJr  upa- 
luhfhaniunaA  |  9.  SmM  (hid  hiut.iu  na  tamam  m'eiihfib.  lammatarii 
chid  H<t  MflMlR  dn!«H:  |  ffi  d  M  aamd  rtrytni  jndtl  chit 

na  tamam  ppffii 

"  1.  The  gods  havo  not  ordained  hunger  to  bo  our  destruction. 
Kv. -n  ibfiM  who  in  full-fi  ■!  fin'  DTObtkra  by  various  forms  of 
(tit.  deaths).  The  prosperity  of  the  liberal  man  never  decays; 
tlii'  illibenJ  Anils  no  comforter.  2.  He  who,  himself  well  provided 
with  mjstewmco,  hnrdeus  bis  heart  against  the  poor  man  who  up- 
proadlM  him,  starving,  and  who  has  long  courted  him,  desirous  of 
food,  such  a  man  meets  with  nono  to  chew  him.  3.  lie  is  the  boun- 
tiful man  who  gives  to  the  lean  beggar  who  comes  to  him  crating  food. 
SocooM  attends  that  man  in  the  M  B  1  ha  secures  for  hims-lf  » 

friend  in  the  future,     4.  lie  is  no  fiiuad  who  bestows  nothing  on  his 
who  waits  apon  him,  socking  for  sustenance.     Let  every  ooo 
depart  from  such  a  BUS]  his  house  is  no  home, — und  look  out  for 
some  ono  else  who  i«  liberal,  even  though  he  be  a  stranger.    $.  Lot 


432  METRICAL  VERSION'  OP  RIO-VEDA.  *.  117. 

powerful  man  be  generous  to  fch  it  ;  la  him  look  ilowo  the  long 

path  [of  futurity].  For,  oh,  debet  revolve  like  the  wheels  of  a  chariot: 
they  come,  now  to  one,  now  to  another."4  6.  In  \ain  the  fool  obtains 
food :  I  tell  the  truth ;  it  becomes  his  destruction  (comp.  v.  1 }.  lie 
nourishes  neither  his  friend  nor  bis  compuaiou.  lie  wbo  keeps  hii 
food  to  himself  has  his  sin  to  himself.  7.  The  ploughshare  furrowing 
the  ground  brings  men  plenty.  A  man  moving  onward  with  his  feet 
accomplishes  his  journey.  A  priest  who  speaks  is  more  acceptable 
than  ono  who  is  silent.  A  kinsman  who  is  beneficent  excels  mm  wbo 
is  stingy.  8.  A  one-footed  being  advances  faster  than  a  two-footed. 
Tho  two-footed  comes  after  the  three-footed.  The  four- fooled  follows 
in  the  rear  of  the  two-footed,  and  moves  on  observing  his  step*.  0. 
The  two  bands,  though  alike,  do  not  perform  an  equal  amount  of 
work.  Two  cows  with  the  same  mother  do  not  yield  tho  same  qosu- 
tity  of  milk.  Two  men,  though  twins,  have  not  the  same  strength. 
And  two  others,  though  kinsmen,  are  not  equally  Ubei 

The  following  is  a  free  metric  J  rendering  of  some  of  these  Ycr 

The  gods  have  not  ordained  that  we 
Should  die  of  want ;  the  lean  and  weak 
Are  not  death's  only  prey  ;  the  tb 

Themselves  must  soon  his  victims  bo. 

The  man  endowed  with  ample  pelf 

"Who  steel*  his  heart,  in  selfish  mood. 

Against  the  poor  who  sue  for  food 
Shall  no  consoler  find  himsrlr. 

«*  It  U  curious  to  find  in  to  nwirut  s  coropostieit  this  now  trito  < 

i ni;.-* .,(  i-.nunc  to  tho  revolutions  of  a  wheel.    Th*  same  idoaoemn  in 
M  Ji  -Mi..!  lis,  iii.  15180 :  *'  Afttr  happinos*,  suffering,  sod  afar  saaVriag,  happtaaaa, 
visit  a  man   in  succession,  a*  tho  spokta  »f  ■  whtvl   [revolve   roand]   th*   nam" 

H»r*n  mmim  ;ah  i"m).  Compare  S'atup.  Br.  i-  '-.  %,  19 !  fZaat  pipiti  infi 
pipmi  (poverty  from  prosperity)  jyctitha*  torn  "mfi'o.t  mfirymr  hi  ks  asi  mm.il 

Mitu  Mttini  eartlanlr.  |       I         ■■-.,.  ng  .aw ..1.  lbir»t,  W>  prosperity  WwHfhwJow*,  la 

light  dtrkitcw,  and  to  immortality  death  :  so  tint  all  time  things  coaataaU , 
In  a  circle"      According  to  UcrodeUu,  L  207,  Craeaa  said  to  Cyras:   "If  thoa 
knuweit  that  era  thou  art  hum  mi.  and  rultv.  over  morula,  leant  Qrst  this  lassos, 
that  in  tho  attain  of  uit-u  there  u  a  wbocl  which,  by  it*  nrolaUoa,  rcoikvs  it  im- 
poaubM  Ibr  the  sum  penons  always  to  enjoy  prosperity." 


BIG-VEDA,  x.  107.  ON  LIBERALITY  TO  PRIESTS. 

No  friend  is  he  who  coldly  spurns 
Away  his  needy  friend  forlorn : 
He,  thus  repulsed,  in  wrath  and  soorn 

To  some  more  liberal  stranger  turns. 

Relieve  the  poor  while  yet  ye  may ; 
Down  future  time's  long  vista  look, 
Ami  try  to  read  that  darkling  book ; 

Your  riches  soon  may  flit  away. 

Ye  cannot  trust  their  fickle  grace ; 
As  chariot  wheels,  in  ceaseless  round. 
Now  upward  tarn,  now  touch  the  ground, 

Bo  riches  ever  change  their  place. 

The  man  whose  friend  receive*  no  share 

In  all  his  good,  himself  destroys  : 

Who  thus  alone  his  food  enjoys 
His  sin  alone  shall  also  bear. 


433 


(5).  Rig-ieda,  x.  107. 

1.  Arir  abhud  mahi  maghonam  eihSm  viitam  jleam  tamato  nir  amochi  | 
mahi  jyolih  pitribhir  dultam  AgAd  uruk  pant  huh  dai*hi»£y<ih  adarii  | 
2.  UehchA  divi  dnk»hinAvan(j>  attkur  yt  aivaddh  taha  t$  tQryena  [  hira- 
gyadAh  amritatram  bhajanlt  rOtodtih  Soma  praliranlt  Ayuk  ;  3.  J  hit) 
pUrllir  dakthinA  derayujgil  na  kavaribhyo  na  hi  U  prinanti  J  atha  nariik 
prayala-dakthinato  avmlya-bhiijA  bahavah  prinanti  |  ....  5.  Daktki- 
Mlidn  prathamo  hntah.  eti  dahhinacAn  gr6tnam\r  ogrom  e!i  |  lam  era 
manye  nripatiih  jtmAnAfi  yah  pralhamo  dalthinAm  ArirAya  |  6.  Tarn 
na  rithtik  lam  u  brahm&nam  uhur  yajnanyam  nAmagum  ulUhafotam  |  at 
ttJcratya  tamo  vtda  titro  yah  pralhamo  dahhinayH  rarddha  |  7.  DalthinA 
'iram  dakthinA  gAm  dadiili  iattUffl  (handram  ula  yad  hiranyam  J 
dakihinA  'nnaGt  ranult  yo  nak  atmi  dak*hinam  tartna  krinule  vijdnam  | 
8.  Xa  bhojuh  mamrur  na  ngartham  iyar  m$  ruhyanti  na  cyathanlt  ha 
bhojuh  |  ida&  yad  viivam  bhutanam  traitka  etal  tartam  dakthinA  rbhgt 
daduti  |  0.  Bhojuh  jigynh  ntrabkim  yonim  ogre  bhojuh  jigyur  cadhtaSt 
yd  nuAtAh  |  bhojAh  jigyur  antahpeyatu  turAyAh  bhojAh  jigyur  ye  ahutdh 
prayanli  |  10.  Lhojtiya  akam  tarn  mpijanti  uhim  bkojuga  AtU  hang* 

28 


4S«  PRAISE  OP  LIBEBALITY  TO  PBLESTB. 

lumbhamani  |  bhojatytt  idam  ptufikarmU*  k/mo  parwldritmih 

im  chitram  |  11.  Jjhtyam  airuA  nuAfhutifo  tfifmnU  tvrrid  ratto  earttefr 

ialihindyih  |  bhojam  dtrtito  etata  M*r#*Aw  bhojah  iafrUn  ttmcmlktiim 

"  I.  The  great  liberality  of  those  men  haa  been  manifested. 
The  whole  living  [world]  has  been  liberated  from  darkness.  The 
gnat  light  given  by  the  Fathers*"  haa  arrived.  The  broad  path  af 
Large**  ha*  been  beheld.  2.  The  giver*  of  gift*  abide  aloft  in  the 
*ky;  the  bvstowm  of  horac*  live  whh  the  Sun;  the  giver*  of  galil 
attain  immortality  ;  the  beatowen  of  raiment  prolong  their  live*.  3. 
A  gift  is  a  satisfaction  of  the  gods,  an  offering  to  the  deities,  and  [pro- 
ceeds] not  from  the  illiberal;  they  bestow  nothing;  and  many  men 
who  bestow  largesse*  are  bountiful  merely  through  fear  of  reproach 

5.  The  giver  of  gift*,  invited,  advances  first :    ho  walls  in 

the  front  as  leader.**  I  regard  a*  the  king  of  men  him  who  first 
presented  a  gift.  6.  They  call  him  a  risbi,  a  priest,  a  re  mead 
chanter  of  hymns  and  reciter  of  verses, — he  knows  the  three  forms  af 
the  resplendent  (Agni), — the  man  who  was  the  first  to  crown  [his 
religious  service]  with  a  gift.  7.  Largess  bestow*  a  cow,  a  hone, 
and  gleaming  gold.  Largos*  bestows  food,  which  ia  oar  life.  The 
vise  man  make*  largess-giving  his  breastplate.  8.  Bountiful  men 
neither  die  nor  fall  into  calamity :  they  suffer  neither  wrong  nor  pais. 
Their  liberality  confers  on  them  this  whole  world  as  well  a*  heaven. 
9.  The  bountiful  conquer  for  themselves  first,  a  pleasant  abode,  a  well- 
dressed  wife,  and  a  draught  of  wine ;  they  conquer  those  who  walk 
before  them,  uninvited.  10.  A  fleet  horse  is  trained  for  the  geoerona 
man ;  he  obtains  a  brilliant  damsel  for  his  portion ;  this  house  of  his 
resembles  a  lotus-pond,  beautiful,  embellished  like  the  palaces  of  the 
gods.  11.  The  liberal  man  U  borne  along  by  npid  horses.  Tho  ear  of 
largess  rolls  forward  on  easy  wheels.  Preserve,  ye  gods,  the  bountiful 
man  in  battle.     He  overcomes  his  enemies  in  the  fight  '' 

•"  Compare  B.V.  x.  68, 11.  -  Tho  Father*  hs»«  adorned  the  sky  with  star*  .... 
Slid  placet!  ilarkri'M  in  tho  night,  anil  light  in  tlir  day"  (arc  shore,  p.  S 

•*•  Compare  R.V.  iv.  00.  8  f.  where  the  prweperity  and  bonotar  »aJ*si  atsssat  s 
pnncc  who  r  a  tain*  and  ehcruht*  a  domestic  priori  are  dnerihod.  S#x  PralSMsr 
Wilson's  trsmlati'Hi.  sod  note  on  c.  9,  in  p.  314 ;  and  Bolt's  Art  on  Brthua  mi 
the  B;-hmiu»,  Jouro.  Otrni.  Or.  Soekty.  i.  77  f.  S«e  also  the  byaan  froia  the  A.V. 
iii.  19,  quoted  in  tbo  lit  tdI.  of  thb  wurk.  p.  283. 


MO-VEDA,  vh.  108,  AUTUMNAL  REVIVAL  OP  TUB  I'HuGS.     435 

Verse*  8  ff.  may  be  thus  freely  rendered  :— 
The  liberal  dors  not  mount  or  die ; 

No  pain  or  euro  hit*  life  annoys; 

This  world  is  his  with  all  its  joys, 
And  future  bliss  beyond  the  sky. 

He  owns  a  princely  palace  bright, 

And  dwells  in  godliko  pomp  and  pride ; 
A  richly  decked  and  winning  brids 
Sits  Mr  and  blooming  by  hia  side, 

And  fills  bis  heart  with  love's  delight. 

With  jih-nteous  stores  of  corn  and  wine 
Supplied,  a  merry  life  ho  leads; 
Swift  o'er  the  plain  hi*  chariot  speeds, 
Whirled  on  by  prancing,  snorting,  steeds ; 

He  «mites  his  foes  by  aid  divine. 

The  hymn  which  I  cite  next  has  been  already  translated  by  Pro- 
fessor Max  Muller  in  his  Ane.  Sansk.  Lit ,  pp.  494  t,  where-  he  thus 
remarks  on  it :  "  Tho  103rd  hymn  of  the  7th  Mandala,  which  is  called 
a  panegyric  of  tho  frogs,  is  clearly  s  satire  on  the  priests ;  and  it  is 
curious  to  observe  that  the  same  animal  should  have  been  chosen  by 
the  Vedie  satirist  to  represent  the  priest*,  which,  by  the  earliest 
satirist  of  Greece,  was  selected  as  the  representative  of  the  Homeric 
heroes." 

(6)  Rij-ttda,  TO.  108. 

1.  SafiicaUantm  iaiay&nah  brahmanuA  trata-thiirinnh  |  ciicham  Par' 
janya-jinvitum  pra  mandnkdh  arddishuk  |  2.  Ditydh  dpo  aoAi  yad  enam 
dyam  dritim  na  iiahkaA  nratl  eaydnam  \  yavum  aha  na  muyur  tattinl- 
ndm  mandak'iniim  vayrntr  atra  tam  tti  |  3.  Yad  \m  tndn  uMito  abhy 
acanhU  tritAydtnUth  pr&vrtiki  dgal&ydm  \  akWtaliAfttya  pilaram  tut 
putrv  anyo  tinynvt  up*  tadanlam  tti  |  4.  Any*  anyam  anu  grthhndti  tttor 
apom  euary*  yad  amanduAdtdm  |  taandaka  yad  abhirruhfah  kanuKU* 
prifniA  tamprinktr  harittna  vdtkam  |  5.  Tad  etkdm  anyo  anyatya 
tdeham  idktruytva  vadati  tiAtAamdnak  |  tarrafo  Ud  tt  Ad  m  tamridktt* 
porta  yad  turdeho  vadathana  adki  aptu  |  C.  Gemtdytir  tin  ajam&yur  tkah 
pritnir  eko  KaritaA  ekah  tthdm  \  tamdnam  ndmr.  bilArito  virQpdk  punUra 


-rtfi 


AUTUMNAL  CBOAKING  OP  THE  FROGS  COMPARED 


tticAtim  pipihtr  radantah  |  7.  Ifrthmanuio  etiratre  ma  mm  mtv  m 
pkrnam  abhito  cadantah  |  uiHitaUaratga  tad  ahnh  pari  thfka  fan 
masifaiilh  pravrithmam  babhuta  I  8.  BrfthmamAtah  tomino  vidmm 
akrata  brakmo  krinvantah  paricadarigam  |  adhceryato  gharmim&n  sitAvi- 
donah  Stir  bhacanii  avhyah  na  k*  chit  |  9.  Dteahitim  jugupvr  dtAia- 
ituya  ritum  naro  na  pra  minanti  etc  |  tamvattart  privri*hi  dgat<iyam\ 
tuptdh  gharm&b  ainuv*t«  tuargam  |  10.  Qomiyttr  ad/Li  ajamAynr  adit 
pribnir  adud  harito  no  wjjumi  \  gamut  mcndiidh  daiatah  iat&ni  mka- 
tratave  pralirante  uyith  | 

"  1.  These  vow-fulfilling  Brfthmanp,  the  frogs,  after  lying  quiet  for 
•  your,  have  now  uttered  their  voice,  stimulated  by  Parjunyn  (the 
rain-god).  2.  When  the  waters  from  the  sky  fell  upon  them,  as  they 
lay  like  a  dry  skin ""  in  the  (dried-up)  pond,  the  voice  of  the  frogs 
rises  in  concert,  like  the  lowing  of  cows  which  have  calves.  3.  When, 
on  the  arrival  of  the  autumn,  rain  fell  upon  them,  when  they  were 
ardently  desiring  it  and  parched  with  thirst,  tho  one  croaking  ap- 
proaches, like  a  son  his  father,  another  who  is  calling  out.  4.  One 
of  them  seizes  the  other,  when  they  are  delighted  with  the  dis- 
charge of  the  waters ;  when  the  speckled  frog,  soaked,  and  leaping 
upwards,  joins  his  voice  to  that  of  tho  green  one.  6.  When  tho 
cue  repeats  tho  sounds  of  the  other,  as  a  pupil  the  words  of  his 
teacher,  your  every  limb  seems  in  full  vigour,  as  ye  make  a 
loud  noise  upon  the  waters.  6.  One  lows  like  a  cow,  another 
bloats  like  a  goat ;  one  of  them  is  speckled,  another  green.  Having 
a  common  name,  they  vary  in  appearance,  and  modulate  their  voices 
diversely  as  they  croak.  7.  Like  Krahmans  at  the  Atirfltra  soma- 
rito,  like  (priests)  talking  round  a  full  bowl,  ye  frogs  surround  the 
pond  on  this  day  of  the  year  which  is  the  day  of  autumn.  8.  The 
soma-ofTcring  Bn'ihmuns  ruiso  their  voices,  performing  their  annual 
devotions  ;  these  adhvaryus,  sweating  with  their  hot  oblations  [or 
their  kettles]  issue  forth  like  persons  who  have  been  hidden.  9.  They 
have  observed  the  divine  ordinances  of  the  year;  these  creatures  do 
not  disregard  the  season  ;  when  autumn  has  arrived  these  heated 
kettles  obtain  their  release.  10.  Tho  frog  who  lows,  and  the  one  who 
bleats,  tho   speckled  and   the  brown,   have  bestowed  on  us  riches: 

m  Prof.  Mailer  render*  if  id  t>r  "  fuh."  I  prefer  the  mure  oemman  sifiiostisi 
of  "»kin.- 


TO  THE  DRAIIMANS'  EECITATION  OP  PRAYBBS. 


437 


giving  us  hundreds  of  cows,  the  frogs  prolong  our  lives  in  the  season 
of  a  thousand  shoots." 

I  bare  attempted  to  give  the  tubitauco  of  this  hymn  very  freely  ia 
tho  following  rorscs  : — 

As  Brahmans,  who  a  row  fulfil, 
The  frog*  had  now  a  year  boon  still. 
Like  dried  and  shrivelled  skins  they  lay, 
Faint,  parched  with  boat  for  many  a  day, 
Expecting,  long  in  vain,  the  showers 
Withheld  by  Air's  malignant  power*. 
But  autumn  comes;  Parjanya  rains 
In  copious  streams,  and  Hoods  the  plains. 
Clouds  veil  tho  sun,  tho  air  is  cool, 
The  ponds,  long  empty,  now  are  full. 
There  flout  the  frogs,  their  bodies  souk  ; 
Afar  is  heard  their  merry  croak. 
Well  drenched,  they  jump  aloft  in  glee, 
And  join  in  noisy  colloquy. 
They  leap  upon  each  others'  hacks, 
And  each  to  t'  other  cries  co-ax. 
As  teachers  first  call  out  a  word, 
Then  boys  repeat  what  they  have  heard, 
Just  so  the  frogs  croak  out  once  more 
What  other  frogs  bod  croaked  before. 
Sounds  diverse  issuo  from  their  throats, 
Homo  low  like  cows,  some  bleat  like  goat*, 
Though  one  in  name,  of  various  shoca, 
For  ono  is  brown,  another  green. 
As  Brihmans  at  a  Soma-rita 
Around  the  bowl  in  talk  unite, 
This  day  tho  frogs  their  pond  surround, 
And  make  the  air  with  noise  resound. 
These  priests,  the  frogs,  their  voices  raise, 
And  ring  their  annual  hymn  of  praise. 
As  priests  who  sweated  o'er  a  pot 
8oon  qnit  the  fire  they  find  too  hot, 


438      ATHARVA-VEDA,  to.  15,  Pll.USE  OF  SOCIAL  MEETIXOS. 


The  frogs,  so  long  oppressed  by  heat, 
Emerge  ia  haste  from  their  retreat. 
From  rules  divine  they  never  swerre. 
But  all  the  seasons'  laws  obsorve. 
When  autumn  comes,  their  suffering  ocaao, 
From  scorching  heat  they  find  release. 
Tie  frogs  that  bleat,  and  thoso  that  low. 
Brown,  groen,  on  man  all  wealth  bestow. 
The  the  that  on  our  pastures  graze, 
We  owe  to  them,  with  length  of  days. 

It  is  possibly  on  echo  of  this  production  that  wo  find  ia  a  doeerif 
of  autumn  in  the  Hurivamaa,  v.  8803,  where  the  poet  compares 
noise  made  by  a  frog,  after  his  rest  of  sixteen  half  months,  along  with 
his  wires,  to  the  recitation  of  the  Itig-reda  by  a  Brahman  surrounded 
by  his  pupils  (plaeangamak  thodata-pakthaiayi**  rt'raufi  gothfkak  takt 
htminlbhih  \  ficho  dvijrUih  priy«-taty<i~tUuirmtl  yu<Ad  *ritiitfiyai'h  pari- 
ftiryamuiitih).  On  this  Terse  the  late  31.  Langlais  somewhat  r. 
iniiiirkH  as  follows,  in  a  note  to  his  French  translation  of  the  Hariv. 
vol.  ii.  p.  132  :  Dnnn  nos  mocurs  riea  n'  egalcrait  l'  impertiocooe 
d'une  compnroisoa  dons  laquollc  uno  grenouillc  nrait  oaaimilco  a  ua 
reopectablo  ccclesiastiquo.  Lee  Indiens,  a  oe  qu'  il  porait,  no  voyaient 
dons  telle  espece  do  rapprochement  aucune  tcinte  d'  impi6t<5." 

The  next  hymn  breathe*  a  social  spirit,  and  a  disposition  to 
by  tho  improving  influences  of  the  company  of  cultivated  men, 
bined,  however,  with  a  vainglorious  desire  to  shine  at  their  expense. 


(7).  Alkarrn-tria,  xn.  12. 

1.  Sabha  rha  ma  tamHii  tJ\a  aratatn  PmjUpattr  dukHmrmn 
ynatamjachhai  up*  ma  $a  iikthat  ekuru  Msblat  fitmnk  tanyatuku  | 


|  MM 
use. 

MSWtfbU] 

a 


•■  Then  iwni  to  ho  nn  donht  thnt  lhi«  word  refer*  to  the  ftog't  right 
quiescence  rineo  the  ©lo»*  of  tbc  preceding  rainy  Matron.     M    l^njloj*,   what 
before  him  tho  reading  itmfiiia-pekiho-iartiyi,  irss  naturally  pnsslcd  by 
renders  it,  "  La  jrrcnnaillc,  dont  Is*  flancs  stmt  comme  sUlaanc*  par  let  sdae  ccses," 
and  be  adds  a  nut*  to  tho  following  effect :  "  II  me  semblc  qua,  par  prtte  rpithst*  n 
pru  obarunt,  1'  intention  do  1'  sutour  fat  do  drpnindro  le*  nin  eStes  da  la  iiismasTIl, 
dereBDea  pin*  appuontos  •  U  suite  des  cnsleon  de  I'M  qui  ant  da  1'  tJaili 


ATUARTA-VEDA,  ni.  30,  PEATER  FOR  CONCORD  IN  A  FAMILY.     439 

Fidma  U  tabhs  nGrna  narithfi  vSma  vai  ati  \  ye  tt  ke  cha  tabhiisada*  te  mm 
tantu  tacuchasah  |  3.  Kth&m  ahafti  aamtirimlndfb  tartho  rijnilnam  A  dad*  j 
aiyuk  tantuyuh  irttlrfa  nmm  Indrc  hhaginnm  lf'5u  |  4.  Yad  ro  manak 
parQgatam  yad  baddham  iha  ttha  p&  |  tad  vah  uvartayiJimui  viayi  r* 
ramatum  manak  \ 

"  1.  May  Assembly  and  Meeting,  the  two  daughters  of  Prajdpati, 
concurrently  preserve  mc.  May  cTcry  one  whom  I  meet  resort  to  ma; 
may  I  speak  agreeably,  o  fathers,  in  the  assemblies.  2.  Assembly, 
ffc  know  thy  namo  ;  thy  same  is  conversation.  Lot  all  tin  innr.lii.rs 
of  the  company  convene  with  me.  3.  I  appropriate  the  glory  and  the 
knowledge  of  these  mon  who  art  seated  here.  India,  make  me  tho 
most  distinguished  in  .'ill  this  assembly.  4.  If  your  thoughts  have 
turned  elscwbcro,  or  are  enchained  bore  or  there,  wo  cause  them  to 
return :  let  thorn  delight  in  me." 

Tho  hymn  of  which  I  next  give  the  first  four  versos  contains  a 
yur,  or  incantation,  for  concord  in  a  family. 


(8).  Atharta-tvdt,  in.  30. 

1,  Sahfidayam  tanmtinmyan  evidathai*  krinomi  rah  \  anyo  anyain 
otJ.r  haryat*  taUam  j<Ho»i  idyhnyd  |  2.  Anmrttak  pituh  putro  matri 
ihatatu  lammaitiih,  \jdyd  patye  madktmalis*  tHehaA  rafotu  itwticon  |  3. 
Jft  bhratti  bhrataram  dcikihad  m»  ira-Uiram  utit  triuA  |  tamyanchah 
tacratuh  bk&tttk  tUcham  tadsta  bfmdrayO  |  4.  Ytna  dtteh  na  riyiitli  no 
cha  tidrithaU  mithah  \  tat  Ifimmt  brahma  to  griht  tanjttanam  purttht- 
bhyah  \ 

"  1.  I  impart  to  you  concord,  with  unity  of  hearts  and  freedom  from 
hatred :  delight  one  in  another,  as  a  cow  at  the  birth  of  a  calf.  2. 
May  the  son  be  obedient  to  his  father,  and  of  one  mind  with  hit 
mother :  muy  the  wife,  at  peace  with"0*  her  husband,  apeak  to  him  honied 
words.  3.  Let  not  brother  hate  brother,  nor  aurtur  sister :  concordant 
and  united  in  will  speak  to  one  another  with  kind  words.  4.  We 
perform  in  your  house  on  incantation,  creating  concord  among  ita  in- 

•»  I  am  unable  to  give  an  explanation  of  tho  word  iintirv*,  which,  Uwvjra  maaw 
Um  in  form,  (onns  to  agree  with  jayi. 


440 


ISCASTATIOS8  TO  SAVE  THE  DTINO. 


mate*,  and  one  through  which  the  gods  will  not  desert  yoa,  nor  mt 
hatred  exist.""* 

The  four  hymns  of  the  Atharva-veda  which  follow  contain 
tions  designed  to  save  persons  suffering  under  dangerous  distaste*, 
oo  the  point  of  death,  from  death ;  or  rather  perhaps  to  try  to  retail 
their  spirits  after  their  separation  from  the  body.  They  supply  various 
illustrations  of  the  conceptions  entertained  by  the  Indiana  of  the  period 
when  they  were  composed,  regarding  the  vital  principle,  the  relation 
of  the  different  senses  to  the  several  elements,  the  deities  by  whoa 
men's  tenure  of  life  waa  regulated,  the  power  of  incantations  to  arrest 
the  approach  of  doom,  and  other  kindred  particular*.  Some  of  the 
ideas  which  we  shall  moot  hero  havo  already  occurred  in  the  section 
on  Yama. 


(9).  Alfam-vHk,  ▼.  30. 

1.  Avatat  U  Sratah  par&vatat  le  Hcatak  |  iktica  Mara  aid  mm  fdk  mi 
pHrtdu  ami  ffiiM  pitrln  n»um  badhnumi  tt  dridham  |  '2.  Tat  tt&  'bkuktrak 
punukak  tco  yad  arano janah  \  tttmochana-pritmochanr  ubht  tOekd  taddm 
It  |  3.  Yad  dudrohitha  iepitht  itriyai  pumt  achittya  \  vnmo — |  4.  i'aa* 
enato  matr&r'tM  *")*  prtrikritdt  tha  yat  \  unmo— |  6.  Tat  U  mutd  ytt 
te  pita  jamir  bfirata  cha  tarjatak  \  pratyal  ttratc*  bhuhajam  j*rtdaik\in 
krittomi  ttd  |  G.  Ihaidhi  purtuha  tarxtna  ntantua  taha  |  dicta*  Yamatyt 
mi  'nuguh  adhi  flvapurd  fh£\  7.  Anuh&Uk  punar  thi  i-iaVdn  udayanam 
pathah  |  uruha+am  CkramanaiU  jttalo  jlcafo'yanam  |  8.  J/ci  bibher  m 
narithyati  jaradaehfim  krinomi  U&  |  niravctham  aham  yakifimcm  tnyt- 
bhyo  'ngnj'varam  taea  |  9.  Angabhedo  angajrarv  gai  eka  tt  hridayAmtyak  | 
yakthmak  iytnah  n-a  pr&paptad  tatha  tudhak  parattarSm  j  10.  flttkl 
Bodhapratlbodhnv  aneapnc  yai  tha  j'Sgricih  |  tan  tt  prfinatyt  yopUrtm 
dtrtl  naktaih  tha  jrlyj-itiim  |  11.  A  yam  Agnir  upatadyak  tha  tHryaA 
u/itlu  U  |  udthi  mrityor  gambhlrat  kriilmtit  thit  tamatat  psri  |  12. 
Jfamo  Yamuya  natno  attu  tarityate  namak  pitribhyah  ula  yt  nayamii  | 
utp&ranatya  yo  trda  tarn  agnim  puro  dadkt  tumai  orithfatdtayt  |  13. 


IU  Three  hymn*  of  tho  Atharrs-rcda,  tit,  iii.  It  |  V.  18,  and  r.  19,  togathar  trun 

two  imta  (the  8th  aim!  9th)  of  t.  17,  which  formed  part  of  this  taction,  a*  it  urijr>> 

nally  appeared  in  tho  Journal  of  the  Rural  Astatic  Botfetg  fur  .Mi,  pp.  33  If,  bm 

omitted  hen,  as  they  hats  mbtequeoUy  been  qiiouid  ia  tha  tint  totaraa  of  this  vast, 

a,  pp  280-287. 


OR  ILECALL  the  dead  to  life. 


441 


Attn  prttpah  aitu  mannh  aitu  chalshur  atho  balam  |  iarlram  atya  lam 
tidum  tat  padbkyum  prati  ti*h{hatu  \  14.  PraamQgnc  chakthuthd  swift 
ir\jrmam  $am\raya  tamu  nam  baleiia  \  vettka  amritatya  tnd  nu  gat  md 
nu  hhdmigrihu  'bhutat  \  15.  Mil  te  prtinah  upadtual  mo  apAno  'pi  ihAtfi 
U  |  tutyat  tvd  'dhipatir  nirityor  udftyarhhatu  raimibhih  |  18.  Iyam 
antar  vadati  jihv&  baddhii  panishpadu  |  ttayd  yakshm<ii!t  niratocham 
intern  ropli  cha  takmamh  |  17.  Ayar'n  lukuh  priyatumo  dm  una  m  apart- 
jiiah  |  ytumai  ham  iha  mfityare  dithfah  purmha  jttjnitht  |  ta  cha  US 
'nu  hvay&mti  m&  pwdjanuo  mrithah  \ 

"  |,  from  thy  vicinity,  from  thy  vicinity,  from  a  distance,  from 
thy  vicinity  [I  call]  to  thee:  remain  here;  do  not  follow,  do  not 
follow,  tho  early  Fathora.  I  firmly  hold  bock  thy  broalh.  2.  "What- 
ever incantations  any  kinsmun  or  stranger  has  uttered  against  thee, 
— with  my  voice  I  declare  thy  releuse  and  deliverance  from  them 
all.  3.  Whatever  hurt  thou  hast  done,  or  curse  thou  hut  spoken,  in 
thy  folly,  against  woman  or  man,  with  my  voice,  etc.  4.  If  thou  licet 
there  in  consequence  of  any  sin  committed  by  thy  mother,  or  thy 
father,*"  with  my  voice,  etc.  3.  Receive  tho  medicine  which  thy 
father,  mother,  sister  and  brother  oiler  to  thee.  I  make  thee  long- 
lived.  6.  Mi-main  hero,  o  man,  with  thy  entire  soul ;  do  not  follow 
the  two  messengers  of  Yutnu ;  ■*-  come  to  the  abode*  of  the  living.  7. 
Ectura  when  called,  knowing  tho  outlet  of  tho  path,  tho  ascent,  tho 
advance,  the  road  of  every  living  man.  8.  Fear  not ;  thou  shalt  not 
die ;  I  make  thco  long-lived.  I  huve  charmed  out  of  thy  members 
tho  consumption  by  which  they  are  wasted.     9.   The   consumption 

*»  Compare  *  carious  passage  from  the  Taittirfy*  Brihmana  iiL  7, 13, 1 1,  already 
quoted  Ln  p.  60 :  *"  M*y  Agni  deliver  roe  from  any  tin  which  my  tuulhir  may  have 
committed  when  1  was  in  her  womb,  or  which  my  father  may  bare  committed.  May 
my  parents  hare  received  do  injury  from  me,  when  I,  a  ton,  in  rocking,  squeezed  my 
Mother  and  father  in  my  delight."  Compare  alto  lt.V.  rii.  68,  5,  quoted  abort  in 
the  same  peg*,  as  well  a*  the  following  tuxu :  R.Y.  rl  61,  7.  M3  **k  m*  *we«- 
triium  bhtytm*  mn  tat  karma  jfnt  thayadSr4  |  "May  we  not  miller  [the  penalty  of) 
am  MOUeilled  by  others,  or  do  that  »li  h  you  will  punish,  o  Yubim!''  vft 
Mil  re  bkujtma  anynjatam  tno  m  tat  karma  rs*m>  yat  ekayaJkrt  \  ot  nearly 
identical  n-i»e  with  the  preoeding  tell,  x.  37,  12.  Yad  ao  aWoi  ckakfima  jikraya 
fwru  wumma  rd  prayuti  dr**U{*»am  |  award  yo  m  tMi  tiukkuwiyaU  taamin  tmt  tn» 
mwh  m  dJutanm  |  *  If  we  hare  commuted  against  you  any  grievous  ofTcnec,  o  gods, 
with  our  tongues,  or  through  thoughtlessness,  transfer  [Ike  guilt  of )  tlmt  sin  to  Uw 
«ncniy  who  regards  <m  with  malice." 

*a  See  the  Bcction  on  Tama,  p.  294. 

\ 


412 


IMWNTATIOWS  TO  SAVE  THE  UYtBQ, 


which  racks  and  wastes  thy  limbs,  and  sickens  thy  heart,  hi 
away  to  a  distance  like  a  hawk,  overcome  by  my  word.  1 0.  The  tvs 
sagos,  Alert  and  Watchful,  the  sleepless  and  the  vigilant,  these  the 
guardians  of  tliy  life,  ant  nwiiko  both  day  and  night.  11.  May  tlii 
adorable  Agni  rise  hero  to  thee  as  a  sun.  Rise  up  from  deep  death,01 
yea,  even  from  black  darkness. m  12.  Reverence  to  Yama.  lemuBas 
to  Death,  roverenoo  to  flu  Father*,  and  to  those  who  guide  a*.  1 
place  in  front  of  this  [sick  J  man,  for  his  security,  Agni,  who  knows 
how  to  carry  him  across.  13.  Let  his  breath,  let  his  soul,  let  his 
sight  come,  and  then  his  strength  -,  let  his  body  acquire  sensation,  and 
stand  firm  upon  its  feet.  1-1.  Provide  him,  Agni,  with  breath,  tad 
with  sight;  restore  him,  furnished  with  a  body,  and  with  strength.** 
Thou  hast  tho  knowledge  of  immortality;  lot  him  not  depart,  or 
become  a  dweller  in  a  house  of  clay.  15.  Let  not  thy  inhaled  breath 
ceoBO ;  let  not  thy  exhaled  breath  vanish.  I-c-t  the  gun,  tho  lord,  raise 
thee  np  from  death  by  his  rays.  16.  This  tongue  speaks  within, 
bound,  convulsive.  By  thee  1  have  charmed  away  the  consumption, 
and  the  hundred  torments  of  the  fever.  17.  This  world  U  the  dearest, 
unconquered  by  tho  gods.  To  whatever  death  thou  wast  destined 
when  thou  wast  born,  o  man, — wo  call  after  thee,  do  not  die  before 
thou  art  worn  out  by  old  age." 


(10)  AiKarva-MtUi,  vu.  53. 

1.  AmvtralhdyAi adhi  yad  Yamatya  Brihatpatt  abhieatltr  amunchak \ 
pratgaukatnm  AivinA  mri'tgum  atmad  dtvStuSm  Ague  IhuhajA  iackiik»k\ 
2.  Sat*  kramatum  mA  jihltofi  itirlram  prAaSpanau  U  uyujAv  ih*  fU 
iataih  jlva  iarado  cardhamAno  Agnis  U  gopak  adkipAk  ratUkfhah 

lat  te  atihiUm  paraehair  apunah  prunah  punar  A  tut  ildm  |  Ajmu 
tad  AhAr  nirrittr  vpatthAt  tad  ntmani  punar  dvHagAmi  U  |  4.  Mi 
imam  prtino  hdiid  mo  apAno  avahtiya  para  gAt  \  topta  fithibkyak  nam 
paridadAmi  te  enam  luiiri'  jarau  tahantu  |  is.  I'raitielan  pr&nApAn&r 
,-. muh -iiiiAr  BH  vriijnm  |  atjatn  jarimnah  itivadkir  arnJifah  iha  rardkatAm  | 
6.  A  U  pr&nam  surAmaei  pari  yakshmaiit  sutimi  U  |  Oyur  no  itittlo 


*u  Conipajo  tho  di»ii  SArtJpoi  of  flotnvr. 

■'*  Already  quoted  in  the  section  on  Yama,  p.  312. 

«»  Compare  thu  section  jurt  referred  to,  n.  407  tt. 


OB  RECALL  THE  DEAD  TO  LIFE. 


443 


ayam  Agnir  rarmyah  |    7.    Ud  vayaiit  tamattu  pari   rohanto 
ndkam  uliamain  \  dttaiii  devalrd  luryam  aganmaj'yolir  utlamam  \ 

"  1.  Brihaapati,  thou  hast  delivered  as  from  dwelling  in  the  realm 
of  Yuma,  from  the  curse.  The  A.4vi>is, — they  who,  o  Agni,  ure  the 
two  physicians  of  the  gods, — they  have  repelled  death  from  us  by  their 
power*.  2.  Continuo  associated,  yn  two  breaths,  inspired  and  expired ; 
forsake  not  his  body :  may  they,  united,  remain  with  thee  here.  Livo 
prosperously  a  hundred  autumns.  Agni  is  thy  brilliant  protector  and 
lord.  3.  May  thy  life,  which  has  boon  dissipated  afar,  may  thy 
breath*,  come  back  to  thee  again.  Agni  has  snatched  it  from  the  lap 
of  Nirriti  (Destruction) :  and  I  introduce  it  again  into  thyself.  •!.  Ltit 
not  his  inspiration  abandon  him,  nor  his  expiration  quit  him  and 
depart  I  commit  him  to  the  seven  Kishis;  may  they  carry  him  on 
in  health  to  old  age.  o.  Eater  into  him,  ye  two  breaths,  like  two 
steers  forcing  their  way  into  a  cow-pen.  May  this  man  nourish  here, 
an  unmolested  depositary  of  old  age.  6.  We  restore  thy  breath.  I 
driTo  away  consumption  from  thee.  May  this  excellent  Agni  sustain 
our  life  on  every  side.  7.  Ascending  from  the  darkness  to  the  upper- 
most heaven,  we  have  reached,  among  tho  gods,  the  god  Surys,  the 
highest  luminary." 

(11)  Atkarvm-r*da,  vtn.  1. 


I.  Antak&y*  mrityar*  namak  pruMdh  apdndk  iha  tt  ramanlum  | 
iktiyam  attu  jwriuhah  labt'tsund  Muryatya  bbugt  ami*tt<uya  loke  |  2.  Ud 
emtm  lihago  ograbhld  ud  tiutm  Some  amiunum  \  ud  enam  Alsruto  d*cdk  ud 
Indr-ignl  wattsyt  |  3.  Iks  U  <uur  ika  p+anah.  ihdyur  iha  U  manak  |  ut 
ttd  JfirfiiydA  paUbbyo  dairyd  taehd  bkaraman  |  4.  Utlrdma  at&k 
punuha  ma  'va  pattkah  mrityoh  patfbiiam  avamunekamatuih  \  mu  tkkit- 
tkdk  atmdl  bkdd  agnth  luryaiya  mudriifh  \  S.  Tukkytm  caUK  ptraiiim 
matariha  tubhysSx  tanhantu  amridni  iipah  \  iftrytu  te  Umt«  iam 
toptUi  Utitn  mrityur  dayatdm  m&  pra  nxetkfkih  \  6.  Udydium  Upunuks 
n&vay&nam  jkatuih  I*  daktkaidtim  krinomi  |  6  hi  rthman  atnrilitm 
tulk/tSt  ratkam  atka  jivrir  tidalkani  d  taddri  |  7.  J/d  is  matuu  tatra 
gad  ma  tin  bhiti  md  flrebkyak  pra  made  md  'nugdk  pUrlm  |  n'/w  dtr6k 
•bbi  ralthantu  ict/u  |  8.  Mil  gatdntim  a  didhithdh.  ye  nayanii  pard- 
utam  |  d  rofta  Umato  jyotir  thy  d  tt  haaU*  rabfuimdke  |  9.  Sydnml 


444 


1NCANTATI0XS  TO  SAVE  THE  DTI SG, 


cha  led  mi  iabalai  cha  prnhitau  Yamatya  yau  pslhirahshl  iednsu 

4  ei  ildhyo  md  'tra  ti»hfha  pardnmandh  |  10.  M&  Ham  panthdm 
anu  gdh  bh\m«h  «*ha  ytna  piream  tut  iyatha  tarn  brarimi  |  tamah  riot 
puriuha  md  pra  patthah  bhayan  parattdd  abhayam  U  arxah  |  11.  Bak- 
shttHtu  ted  agnayo  ye  aptu  ante  rahhatu  ted  manmhyuh  yam  inikati  | 
vaiSednare  rakxhat.ii  j/ltattddh  dnya*  tea  md  dhdg  eidyutd  taha  |  13. 
Mi  ted  kravydd  abhi  mamtta  drdt  iankat*kdt  ehara  \  rakthalm  tti 
Dyatth  rahhatu  Prithict  iQryai  cha  tea  rahkatSm  ckttndramAi  eh*  | 
antarikiham  raktkatu  dteahttyah.  |  13.  Bodhai  cha  ted  Pratibodhai  cka 
raluhatum  |  Aicapnai  cha  ted  Amvadrdnai  cha  rakthatdm  |  Oopayami 
cha  ha  Jdijrivii  cha  |  14.  T*  tea  rabthant*  U  ted  gopdyantu  tMyt 
nama*  Uhhyah  tedhd  |  15.  Jlcebhyas  ted  tamitdc  Vdyur  Indro  Dk&LA 
dadhdtu  Sarin  trdyamdaah  |  md  ted  prdnv  balafc  kdili  ctnm  U  'a* 
heayamtui  |  16.  Md  ted  jamhhah  tamhanur  md  tamo  etdad  m4  jikti 
larhih  pramaytth  kathd  iyuh  |  ut  lid  AJilyuh  I'ataet  bharantu  %i 
Jndrd jnt  trutayt  |  17.  Ut  ted  Dyaur  ut  Pritkitl  ut  Prajdpatir  agra- 
bhlt  |  ut  ted  mrityer  aihadhayo  tomartijntr  aplparan  |  18.  Ayam  irtdi 
OutftSltn  aynm  md  'mulra  gild  itah  |  imam  »ahairae\ryena  mrttyor 
utp&rayumati  |  19.  Ut  led  mrityor  ap}param  urn  dhamtmtu  eay^dXami  \ 
md  teO  vyaitakesyo  md  ted  agharudo  rudan  |  20.  Akdrtkam  aridam  ted 
pvnar  fig'lh  punarnavah  |  tarvGngah  Marram  tt  chakthuh  tare  am  dyui  ekt 
te  'cidam  |  21.  Vyardt  t»  jyotir  abh&d  apa  teat  tamo  akramlt  |  apa  lead 
mrityum  niiritim  apa  yahhmam  n»  iadkmati  | 

"  1.  Reverence  to  Deulh  tbc  Endcr  !  May  thy  inhaled  and  exhaled 
breaths  gladly  rest  here.  May  this  man  remain  here  united  with  bis 
spirit  in  the  domain  of  the  sun,  in  the  world  of  dcathlessneas.  2.  Bhags 
and  Soma  with  his  filaments,  the  divine  Muruts,  Iudra,  and  Agni,  Wave 
raised  him  up  to  health.  Hero  is  thy  spirit,  hero  tby  breath,  here  thy 
life,  hero  thy  soul.  We  rescue  thee  from  tho  bonds  of  Xirriti  by  » 
divine  utterance.  4.  Rise  up  hence,  o  man.  Casting  off  the  fett<r»  of 
death,  do  not  sink  downward.  Do  not  depart  from  this  world,  frees 
tho  sight  of  Agni  and  the  Sun.  5.  liny  tho  Wind,  llAtnrisrao,  blow 
for  thee ;  may  the  waters  shower  immortality  (or  ambrosia)  on  thee; 
may  the  Sun  shine  healingly  upon  thy  body ;  may  Death  pity  th*e ; 
do  not  die.  6.  Thou  must  ascend,  o  man,  and  not  descend  ;  I  gira 
thee  life  and  perceptive  power.  Mount  this  pleasant  and  imperishable 
car,  then,  when  aged,  thou  shnlt  declare  a  festival.    7.  Let  not  thy  soul 


OR  RECALL  TOE  DEAD  TO  LIFE. 


445 


go  away  thither,  let  it  not  disappear ;  do  not  wander  away  from  the 
tiring;  do  not  follow  the  Fathom.     May  all  the  gods  preserve  thee. 

8.  Do  not  long  after  the  departed,  who  conduct  men  afar.  Ascend 
from  the  darkness;  coma  into  the  light.     Wo  my  hold  of  thy  hands. 

9.  Let  not  the  two  dogs  sent  by  Tama,*14  the  hlaolc  and  the  brindled 
[seize  thee].  Come  hither ;  do  not  hesitate ;  do  not  remain  here  with 
averted  mind.  10.  Do  sot  follow  this  path  ;  it  is  tirribk- ;  I  speak  of 
that  by  which  thou  hast  not  hitherto  gone.  This,  o  man,  is  darkness ; 
do  not  enter  it.  Beyond,  thou  hast  fear ;  on  this  side,  thou  hart 
security.  11.  May  the  fires  which  arc  in  the  waters  preserve  thee; 
may  the  fire  which  men  kindle  preserve  thee;  may  Jutavcdas  Vai.4- 
vanara  (the  fire,  which  is  common  to  all  men)  preserve  thee;  let  Dot 
the  celestial  fire,  together  with  the  lightning,  consume  thee.  1 2.  Let 
not  the  flesh -devouring  fire"'  seek  to  harm  thee;  go  far  from  that 
wicked  ono.  May  tho  sky,  the  earth,  the  tun,  and  moon,  preserve 
thee;  may  tho  air  protect  thee  from  the  bolt  of  the  gods.  13.  May 
■Wakeful  and  Watchful,  may  Sleepless  and  Wakeful  preserve  thee. 
May  Guardian  and  Vigilant  protect  thee.  14.  May  they  protect 
and  guard  thee.  To  them  be  reverence.  16.  May  Yayu,  Indra, 
Dhatri,  and  Savitri  the  deliverer,  restore  thee  to  converse  with  the 
living.  Let  not  breath  and  strength  abandon  tbec  ;  wc  call  back 
thy  spirit.  16.  Let  not  nny  destructive  demon,  let  not  darkness  find 
thee ....  May  tho  Adityaa  and  Vasus,  with  Indra  and  Agni,  raise  thco 
up  to  health.  17.  The  sky,  the  earth,  Prajapati  have  rescued  thee. 
The  plants  with  Soma  their  king,  have  delivered  thee  from  death. 
18.  Let  this  man  remain  here,  o  gods;  let  him  not  depart  hence  to  the 
other  world.  We  rescue  him  from  death  with  a  charm  of  boundless 
efficacy.  19.  I  have  delivered  thee  from  death;  may  the  vigorous 
breathe  upon  thee.*"  Let  not  the  she-devils  with  dishevelled  hair,  or 
those  that  howl  dreadfully,  yell  at  tine.  SO,  I  have  tnatehod  tbee;  I 
have  caught  tbee  ;  thou  bast  returned  renewed,  and  perfect  in  thy 
members  :   I  have  obtained  thy  entire  eyo,  and  thy  entire  life.     21. 


«'*  SeeA.V.t.  30.6,  .love. 

•"  There  aro  three  kinds  of  Are,  tho  irssysV,  ot  funeral  (here  referred  to),  ■Uaa 
devour*  dead  bodies,  the  culinary  [amad),  mid  the  sscrifleisl.  8w  the  Vfij.  8.  i.  17, 
and  thv  commentary  thore,  and  above,  p,  217,  note. 

•'•  Sou  the  «tti  vitmj  of  the  n«xt  hymn. 


44» 


IKClKTAtttHTS  TO  SAVE  THE  D\ 


[Life]  has  breathed 
has  departed  fj 
consumption." 


upon  thee.     Light  has  oomc  to  thoe. 
thee.    We  remove  from  thee  death,  Nirriti 


(12)  Atkarva-ttda,  mi,  2. 


1.  Arabkatra  imam  atsritasya  krtuhfim  achkidyamCnd  Jat 
uttu  t*  |  awm  U  Synk  punar  d  bhar&mi  raja*  tame  mopag&k 
mHhfhah  |  2.  Jitatum  jyotir  abkyem' erv&K  d  trd  hardmi  lalii*dra4&ya\ 
-.ekan  mrityupdian  aiatiim  drdgbiyak  uy*M  pralarath  U  dadkdm*  \ 
i'U  It  prilnam  etidai*  turydck  ekakahttr  akam  (era  \  yat  te  mmi 
Iroyi  tad  dh&rayUmi  tain  rittva  angair  vadajikrayii  "lapan  |  4.  Prawn* 
tv&  dti/mdnm  ■  hatuthpadam  ay  mm  ira  jatam  abki  tarn  dkamdmi  \  turn** 
(f  mriCyi  rluikxkiuki  namah  prtin&ya  U  'karam  \  5.  Ayaik  jltittm  md 
mjita  imam  tam\rayamati  \  krinomi  amai  bkr.ikajam  mrityo  wui  mtru- 
tkaih  radhlk  |  6.  Jualaih  nagkdrukdih  jlwmilm  otkadklm  ahem  |  trip* 
mtinum  takaaulnum  sahasratlm  ika  knee  aemai  aritkfatdtayt  |  7.  Adki 
brUhi  mti  "rabhotkdh  trijemaiit  tavatva  tan  tarrakuyuh  ihdtta  |  flkacA- 
farce*  mfidatam  iarma  yachkatam  apatidbya  dun'lam  dkatiam  5y*h  | 
8.  Atmai  mrityo  adhi  bruhi  imm  dayana  ud  Ho  'yam  tt*  |  truhfak 
tartungab  tuiruj  jnratti  iataktiyannk  a/maud  bkujata  aitmt&m  |  9.  Dtr4- 
n6m  kttik  pari  ted  rrinaktu  pdraydmi  M  rajatak  ut  ted  mrityar  apipa- 
ram  |  Srud  agnim  krarytidam  uirdhan  jirdtavt  I*  pertdkiih  dadhti,. 
Yot  tt  niyunam  rtijanam  mrityo  anavadkartkyam  |  patkak  imam  iotmid 
roktkento  brakmtitmai  rarma  krinnuui  |  11.  Kfinomi  ta  prdnfipata* 
jerclm  tnfityum  dlrgkem  Cyuh  natti  \  Fauatratota  pruhildn  yammm- 
tdmi  cJutroto  'pa  tedham  tan-tin  |  12.  Ar&d  artiliat  nirrilim  pan 
griihim  kra\-ijudah  piiackan  |  rakiho  yal  tarvam  durbhutam  Ut  tamak 
irtlpa  hanmati  |  13.  Agnu  to  prilnam  amritad  dymhmata  vanrt  j'iIU- 
vtdatah,  |  pathil  na  ritkyah  amritah  so/Or  am*  tat  U  kri»omi  tad  u  U 
taniridhyatdai  |  14.  Sift  U  it&m  Dy&cHpritkivl  asantaj/e  abhtiriyam  | 
lam  le  turyak  u  tapala  fam  vat*  tdtu  U  krid*  |  Sici'-k  abhi  kikiirmda 
tod  Opo  dieyuh  jiayatrat'ih  \  16.  Sicd*  U  tanto  atkodhayah  td  Uu 
"ktirtham  adharaaytik  uttarim  pntkir}m  abki  |  tatra  US  "dltyau  raUka- 
tdm  SuryuckandramMdv  vbku  \  16.  Yet  U  v&nak  paridhAnmA  y6m 
nlviih  krinuxha  tram  |  Shadi  te  tanvt  tat  krigmah  §amtparis  'rukthmw 
a*tu  tf.  |  17.  Yal  hhurena  marckayald  tuUjatd  rapid  capon  ktia- 
imairu  |  iumbhan  mukham  mti  nak  tiyuh  pi  a  mothlh  |    18.  Sitatt  la  tUm 


OB  RECALL  TOE  DEAD  TO  L1PK. 


447 


erlAi-yavJo  abtlan&v  adomadkau  \  etau  yalthmam  vi  b&dktU  etatt  mun- 
ekaln  amhatth  |  19.  Tad  ilindti  yat  jiibasi  dhdnyaik  krishyiik  pat/ah  | 
yad  adyam  yad  anadyam  tarravi  t«  annum  aritham  kriwmi  |  20.  Ahnt 
eka  ltd  rdlraye  cha  xtbhdbhytim  pari  dadmasi  |  arAijtlhgo  jighaUubhy*\ 
imam  mt  pari  rahhata  |  21.  SalaOx  U  ayuiam  h&yandn  dt*  yvge  (rini 
cMdtturi  irinmah  |  IndrGgnl  rtive  dtv&t  U  antmanyanl&m  ahririya- 
m&n&k  |  22.  tfaradt  tvu  hnmtntAya  twa/iidytt  grUhtnaya  pari  dadnxui  { 
vartk&ni  tubhyam  tyondni  yak*  rardkant*  <nJnidk~tk  |  23.  Mrilyur  tie 
dcipad&m  mrityur  ii*  ckattuhpadAm  \  tatmil  tt&m  mrilyor  gopaUr 
udbkarami  ta  «u  bibkek  |  24.  So'ritkfa  na  marithyati  na  marithyati 
mi  bibkfk  |  no  mi  tatra  niriyantt  no  yunti  adhamam  Uintah  |  25.  Sarra 
mi  UUrm  jltati  gatir  airah  puru»kah  pasuh  \  yatndam  brahma  kriyaU 
pmridhir  jlranCym  ham  |  26.  Pari  tvS  ptittt  lamUntbhyo  abkichdrdt  ia- 
bnndhubhyah  \  amamrir  bhava  amrilo  atijito  md  te  hdtitkur  atatah 
iartram  \  27.  Yr  mrilii<u-(th  rkasafam  yAh  ndth{ruh  atitiirydh  \  munch- 
ontu  latmCit.  (vdih  drtdh  agiter  raiiranarOd  adhi  |  28.  Agnrh  iartram  an 
pdrayishnuh  rakthohd  'ti  tapntuufu'i  |  at/to  am'Ha-ehdtituah  p&ludntr 
ltd  ma  bhtthajam  | 

"  1.  Seize  this  boon  of  immortality;  mny  lonp  life,  which  cannot  be 
mt  i if!',  ho  thine.  I  restore  to  thee  breath  aud  life;  do  not  depart  to 
the  mist  (raja*)  or  to  darkness  (tamai) ;  do  not  die.  2.  Come  hither 
to  the  light  of  the  living;  I  rcscuo  thee  that  thou  mayest  eurvivo  a 
hundred  autumns,  Loosing  the  bands  of  death  and  imprecation,  I 
lengthen  out  thy  existence.  3.  I  havo  recovered  thy  breath  from  the 
wind,  thino  eye  from  the  nun."*  I  place  in  thee  thy  soul.  Receive 
sensation  in  thy  limbs.  Speak,  articulating  with  thy  tongue.  4.  I 
blow  upon  thee  with  tho  breath  of  bipeds,  and  of  quadrupeds,  aa  on 
Agui  when  be  is  born  {i.e.  on  fire  when  kindled).  1  hare  paid  rever- 
ence, o  Death,  to  thine  eye,  and  to  thy  breath.  8.  Let  this  man  live 
and  not  die.  We  restore  him.  I  make  for  him  a  remedy.  Death,  do 
not  kill  the  man.  6.  I  invoke  for  his  safety  a  vivifying  .....  living, 
delivering,  strong,  and  powerful  plant.  7.  Befriend  him  ;  do  not  seize 
him;  let  him  go;  though  he  is  thine  only,  let  him  abide  here  with 
all  his  strength;  o  Bhava  and  Sarra,  be  gracious ;  grant  deliverance; 
remove  evil  and  confer  life.   8.  Befriend  him,  Death,  pity  him  ;  let  liim 


*'»  Sea  above  io  the  kcuob  on  Yum,  p.  2M. 


448 


INCANTATIONS  TO  SAVE  THE  DVIM3, 


ante.   Unharmed,  with  all  his  limbs,  hearing  perfect] y,  till  his  | 
decay,  let  him  obtain  enjoyment  during  a  life  of  a  hundred  years.    9. 
Kay  the  shaft  of  the  goda  pass  thee  by ;  I  bring  thee  acroaa  from  the  rah* 
(see  v.  1);  I  have  rescued  thee  from  death,  Ilemoving  far  away  the  Scab 
devouring  Agni,  I  draw  round  the©  a  circle  (aee  R.V.  x.  18,  4)  that 
thou  mayeat  live.     10.  Preserving  him  from  that  misty  egress  of  thine, 
o  Death,  which  no  one  may  escape  by  menace*,  we  make  prayer  a  pro- 
tection for  him.     11.  I  give  thee  thy  breath*,  death  at  Uiy  full  age,- 
long  life  and  health.     I  drive  away  all  the  messengers  of  Tama,  whs 
n.:ii;i  iibiiut,  seal  bj  Hie  mi  of  Vtavvab     IS.  V.Y  remove  tata  F.-.£, 
Nirrili,    Qrahi,   and   flush-devouring  Fi4achas,   and   hurl    all   wieked 
Rnkahascs,  ai  it  were  into  darkness.      13.  I  ask  thy  life   from  the 
immortal,  living,  Agni,  Jataveda*.    I  procure  that  thou  mayeat  sufier 
no  injury,  that  thou  may  est  also  be  immortal.     May  this  be  the  fortu- 
nate result.     14.  May  heaven  and  earth  in  unison  be  auspicious  and 
innocuous  to  thee.    May  the  sun  shine  and  the  wind  blow  pleasantly 
to  thy  heart.     May  the  celestial  streaming  waters  drop  down  upon 
thee  favourably.     15.  May  the  plants  be  auspicious  to  the*.     I  have 
raised  thee  from  the  lower  to  the  upper  earth.    There  moy  both  the 
sons  of  Aditi,  the  Sun  and  the  Moon,™'  preserve  thee.      16.  Whatever 
garment  for  clothing,  or  whatever  girdle  thou  makest  for  thyself,  we 
cause  it  to  be  agreeable  to  thy  body;  may  it  be  soft  to  thy  touch.     17. 
When,  as  a  barber,  thou  shnvest  our  hair  and  beard  with  a  sharp  and 
cleansing  razor,  while  cleansing  our  face,  do  not  rob  ns  of  our  life.    18. 
Let  the  rice  and  barley  bo  auspicious  to  thee,  causing  no  consumption 
or  other  ailment.    These  two  (grains)  destroy  consumption,  and  deliver 
from  calamity.    19.  Whatever  thou  eatost  or  drinkcet,  the  grain  derived 
from  husbandry,  or  liquid,  whatever  is  or  ia  not  to  be  eaten — all  that 
food  I  render  for  thee  free  from  poison.    20.    We  commit  theo  to  Lola 
the  Day  and  the  Night;  prcaervo  him  for  me  from  the  goblins  who 
seek  to  devour  him.     21.  Wo  allot  to  thee  a  hundred,  ten  thousand, 
years,  two,  three,  four,  ugps  (yugas).m     May  Indra  and  Agni,  may  all 

«*»  Compars  A.V.  rix,  84,  4,  «,  8. 

nl  The  Moon  if  not  in  the  Veda*  generally  redeemed  among  me  AditTsa.  S(* 
shore,  p,  44  f. 

•v*  It  would  bo  difficult  to  ssy  how  great  ■  duration  u  hero  denoted  by  this  word; 
lull  it  must  be  one  of  great  length,  if  the  long  periods  of  years,  which  are  rawntioooi 
jiut  before,  may  be  taken  ai  any  indication.      See  the  first  foL  of  thu  work,  pp.  43  L 


OR  RECALL  TIIE  DEAD  TO  LIFE. 


449 


the  podfl  regard  thee  favourably,  without  hostility.  22.  We  commit 
thee  to  autumn,  winter,  spring,  summer.  May  tho  rain*  bo  pleasant  to 
thee,  in  which  tho  plants  grow  up.  23.  Death  rulot  ow  bipods; 
death  rulos  over  quadrupedB.  From  that  Death  tho  rulor  I  rescue 
thee ;  do  not  fear.  24.  Thou,  who  art  uninjured,  (halt  not  die;  thou 
sbalt  not  dio ;  do  not  fear.  They  do  not  die  there ;  they  do  not  go  to 
the  nethermost  darkness,  (25)  every  thing  lives  there,  cow,  horse,  man, 
beast,  in  the  place  where  this  prayer  is  used,  the  bulwark  of  life.  26. 
May  it  preaervo  the©  from  curso  from  thy  equals  and  friends.  Bo 
undying,  immortal,  long-lived ;  let  not  thy  breaths  abandon  thy  body. 
27.  May  tho  gods  deliver  thco  from  those  hundred  deaths,  from  those 
dangers  which  nro  snrpassiiblo,  and  from  that  Agni  Vaisvauara  (fire  of 
the  funeral  pile  ?).  SB.  Thou,  tho  medicament  named  Putudru  (Butco 
frondosa),  art  tho  body  of  Agni,  the  deliverer,  the  slayer  of  Uakshasea, 
and  of  rivals,  and  thou  art  the  chaser  away  of  diseases." 


«M 


SECTION    XXIII. 

BRIEF  XOTBS  OK   SOCIETY   AND   LIFE  IN   THE  VEDIC  AOS. 

BD    IN  TIIK   HTJUS 


In  tho  Introductions  to  tho  first  three  Volumes  of  hi* 
of  the  Rig-vcda  (vol.  i.  pp.  xl  ff. ;  vol.  ii.  pp.  xv  ff. ;  vol.  iii.  xiv  IF.), 
Professor  Wilson  has  adduced  from  the  hymns  a  variety  of  facts  illus- 
trative of  the  social  and  political  condition  of  the  people  of  India,  and 
of  tho  advance  which  they  had  made  in  civilization  at  the  period  when 
those  hymns  were  composed.  I  propose  in  this  section  to  bring  for- 
ward such  further  particulars,  connected  with  tho  some  subjects,  as  I 
have  noticed  in  the  hymns,  without  excluding  the  topics  already  eluci- 
dated by  Professor  Wilson. 

It  is  not  only  the  facts  which  arc  directly  stated  or  implied,  in 
regnrd  to  tho  various  subjects  of  inquiry,  which  may  be  understood  at 
supplying  the  requisite  information.  Refermees  of  a  corresponding 
character  made  to  the  gods,  their  dwellings,  dress,  ornaments,  chariots, 
weapons,  etc.,  may  (as  in  such  a  stage  of  religious  progress,  mora 
i.illy,  men  frame  their  gods  after  their  own  image  magnified  aid 
idealized)  be  taken  as  applicable,  mulalit  mutandis  to  their  worshippers. 

(1.)  Country  oeeupisd  by  t/n  Ttdic  pcoph,  th*ir  tillage*  and  titm. 

The  country  originally  occupied  in  Iudia  by  the  Vcdic  people  was 
tract  watered  by  the  seven  rivers,  the  modern  Panjub  ;  but  they  gradu- 
ally extended  themselves  to  tho  eastward  and  southward ;  and  in  B.Y. 
iv.  36,  18  reference  is  made  to  two  enemies  living  beyond  (m.  no  doubt 
east  of)  the  Sarayu  (uta  tya  tadtjah  WjfOT  Indra  piiralah  Arnt- 

rhtiraralha  'vadklh).  For  details  I  refer  to  tho  second  volume  of  this 
work,  pp.  373  ff.  This  country  was  no  doubt  in  port  cultivated, 
as  we  shall  sec  that  frequent  references  are  made  to  agriculture. 


RELIGIOUS  WORSHIP. 


431 


probably  largo  tracta  were  covered  by  forests,  which  are  sometimes 
referred  to.  8ee  the  references  to  Agai  consuming  the  woods,  ubovo 
(p.  212) ;  nu J  the  hymn  to  Ararjynni,  quoted  in  p.  422. 

As  in  onr  own  day,  in  tho  north-west  provinces  of  India  and  tho 
Panjab,  the  houses,  in  places  remote  from  tho  hills,  and  whore  tho  soil 
is  alluvial,  without  any  supply  of  stone,  were  no  doubt  constructed  of 
mud.03  Villages  {grumci)  are  mentioned  in  U.V.  i.  Ill,  1  (riff an* 
puihfn ui  tuwin  ffriinu  anutunm  |  "may  everything  in  this  villugo  bo 
fa*,  and  healthy");  i.  14,  10  (««'  jr&mtthu  aritil  \  "Thou  (Agni)  art 
tho  protector  in  (our)  Tillages") ;  i.  149,  4  (gavaA  iva  gn'mam  |  "as 
cattle,  come  to  n  village");  and  x.  140,  1  qnoUd  above. 

Cities  or  fortified  places  (pur)  are  also  constantly  mentioned.  In 
one  place  it  is  said  that  Indrn  demolished  a  hundred  cities  of  stone  in 
favour  of  tho  liberal  Divodasa,  iv.  30,  20,  that  (antam  aimanmaylndm 
puriim  Indro  n  3*>j(tt  |  Viwdflrtya  iMtuif),  Btm  if  we  should  supporo 
thia  was  a  mythological  reference  to  tho  oerial  cities  of  the  Aauraa 
(comp.  s.  67,  3),  it  might  bo  received  as  ovidenco  that  they  had  as 
tluir  prototypes  stone-built  cities  on  tho  earth,  a  circumstance  in 
by  no  means  improbable  in  tracta  of  country  bordering  on  tho  hill*, 
when  ttone  is  abundant.  Iron  cities  or  fortifications  (purah  uyarih) 
are  mentioned  in  II.  V.  i.  58,  8;  ii.  20,  8;  iv.  27,  1  j  vii.  3,  7  ; 
vii.  Ii,  14;  vii.  95,  1 ;  viii.  89,  8;  x.  101,  8,  where  tho  reference  i* 
either  figurative  or  purely  fanciful  and  mythological.  Cities  with  a 
huudi  ures   or    fortification.1}   (iatadAufi)    ore  referred   to   in 

L  1G6,  8 ;  vii.  16,  14  ;  and  although  Uicy  arc  only  alluded  to  as  figu- 
rative expressions  of  the  means  of  protection  afforded  by  the  god*,  i  h  y 
no  doubt  suggest  the  idea  of  forts,  cooaUting  apparently  of  a  series  of 
concentric  walla,  as  actually  existing  in  the  country  at  the  lime. 

(2)  Ilthyiout  wcrtAip. 

Lot  tlio  reader  try  Iv  conceive  himself  aa  living  3000  years  ago  or 
upwards  in  the  province  of  India  which  ha*  been  above  described. 
At  that  period  the  Indo-Aryans  had  for  some  time  been  settled  in  that 


«"  Kriclu  (trifoH)  ar*  kf-fltntij  mentions!  in  lie  FrubmiaM  u  at«d  for  the 
•ontlraclion  ofrtJ't,  or  altun,  but  they  nuy  havo  been  an  baked. 


the  hwfiBg  piliii  with  which  Us 

•)..£  brine  far  tfeagMfcr 

is  the  da j  to  be  JUiwtrd      The  krns  which  an  ■iftiHwl 
dmaatiea,  the  twe  Aden  aad  to  Uakw  (the  Dm\  *i 

the  mini  «f  the  letter.  4*  aot  ^eiag  fma 

hel  t.  lb*  pndaet  oC  .  deep  p«xt**l  facia*,  tad  »  ddata 

TW  X*nm  are  tie  in:  to  «pf*w.  the  tuac-  of 

■  *■■■;  (v  we  fan*  am,  p.  23  i)  defiatd  a*  that 

the  eatiiaat  ■  ■iiililiia  «rf  fight;  «ad  tint 

hjmaa.     Thee,  a*  the  int 


DID  THE  VEDIC  IXDIAXS  MAKE  1MACES  OF  THEIB  GODS  t    4.',3 

streaks  of  tho  ruddy  dawn  become  risible  in  tbo  cost*  the  poet  breaks 
out  into  an  enthusiastic  burst  of  devotion  to  tho  lovely  goddess  Ushas, 
who  every  morning  renews  her  youth.  Preparation  is  now  made  fur  tho 
ol  the  eacred  Agni,  who  springs  into  life  as  soon  as  the  physical 
instruments  of  bis  genorution  ore  brought  into  contact,  is  then  duly 
lauded  by  bis  votary,  and  is  itnngined  immediately  to  procood  as  a  mes- 
senger to  summon  the  gods  to  whom  sacrifice  is  to  bo  offered  by  their 
worshipper.  8oon  after  Surya  (tho  sun)  shoots  up  above  the  horizon, 
darting  his  rays  across  the  firmament,  and  illuminating  everything 
with  his  splendour;  and  receives,  under  a  variety  of  forms  or  epithets, 
the  adoration  of  the  delighted  poet.  In  tha  hot  season,  when  the 
ground  has  been  parched  by  long  drought,  mid  till  eyes  are  turned  to 
tbo  gathering  clouds  in  tbo  hope  that  they  will  soon  discharge  tin.  ir 
watery  treasures,  Parjanya,  the  roingod,  is  besought  to  send  rain ;  and 
Indra,  the  regent  of  the  firmament,  and  tbo  storm-gods,  the  Mnruta, 
nro  supplicated  to  fulfil  tho  functions  which  the  imagination  of  iMf 
worshippers  has  assigned  to  them,  of  combating  tho  malignant  demons 
of  the  atmosphere,  and  compelling  them  to  yield  up  tho  waters  which 
they  keep  shut  up  in  tho  clouds.  The  other  gods,  or  a  select  number 
of  them,  are  then  invoked.  Along  with  the  recitation  of  hymns  and 
prayers,  various  sorts  of  oblations  are  offered  up  at  different  [wriods 
of  the  day,  to  the  sevcrul  deities. 


(3)  Did  Uu  Vtdic  Indian*  make  image*  of  their  god*  f 

Professor  Miiller  (Chips  from  a  German  Workshop,  i.  98)  answers 
this  question  in  the  negative.  "  The  religion  of  the  Veda,"  ho  says, 
"knows  of  no  idols.  The  worship  of  idols  in  India  is  a  secondary 
formation,  a  later  degradation  of  the  more  primitive  worship  of  ideal 
gods.''  On  tho  other  hand.  Dr.  Bollonsen  finds  in  tho  hymns  clear 
references  to  images  of  the  gods  (Journal  of  the  German  Oriental 
Society,  xxii.  fis7  ff.).  He  writes,  "  From  the  common  appellation  of 
the  gods  as  divo  nurua,  '  men  of  the  sky,'  or  simply  naras  (lares  ?), 
*  men,'  and  from  tho  epithet  urineis*,"*  •  having  the  form  of  men,' 
11  V.  iii.  I,  5,  we  may  conclude  that  the  W*"1  did  not  merely  in 

•**  Profeanr  Both  t.t.  tart  that  according  to  B&yaoa  the  ward  means  ~  bavins  the 
fann  of  nm,"  but  perhaps  sagalnw  ••  feenwd.  or  adorned  by  area." 


45! 


kings  avd  naxciPALrrrea 


imagination  assign  human  forms  to  their  gods,  but  also 
them  in  a  sensible  manner.  Thus  in  B.V.  ii.  33,  9,  a  painted  image  of 
ltudra  if  described  :  rfhirtbhir  aityaik  fntruripah  uyrah  tabAml  £<tir+- 
IhiA  pipit*  Mrangoih  |  'With  strong  limb*,  many-formed,  awful, 
brown,  he  is  pninted  with  shining  golden  colours.'  K.T.  L  15,  13 
(where  it  is  Bnid  of  Yaruns,  that,  'wearing  a  golden  coat  of  mail,  *• 
roils  himself  in  his  radiance ;  spies  sit  round  him '),  appears  also  to 
refer  to  a  sensible  representation."  ....  "Still  clearer  appears  the 
reference  to  ropreaenUi.ii.nn  ia  the  form  of  an  image  in  r.  52,  15:  •» 
vumvGnah  eiliijfi  decOn  altha  (the  editions  of  Professor  ilullrr  and 
Aufrecht  both  read  achhs)  | '  I  now  pray  to  the  gods  of  these  (if. 
Here  it  noma  that  the  Mnnil  inguiahtd  from  their  gods,  ml 

from  tin  ir  images."  .  .  .  .  "  Besides  the  common  expression  Tapos, 
tunu,  rupa  ['body'  and  'form'],  there  is  in  the  oldest  language  one 
which  properly  denotes  an  image  of  the  gods,  viz.,  sandris."  Much 
more  i'  added  in  support  of  the  same  view.  It  is  perhaps  premature 
to  attempt  to  decide  on  the  validity  of  tbeso  proofs  till  it  is  seen  what 
•  in  be  urged  on  the  opposite  rids. 

(4)  Kings  and  principaliliet. 

King*  mv  faqnontly  mentioned  in  the  hymns,  i.  40,  8;  i.  126,  1; 
iii.  43,  5  ;  v.  37,  4 ;  x.  33,  4,  etc.  In  i.  85,  8,  the  MaruU  are  said  to 
be  of  awful  aspect,  like  kings  (rajanah  ics  tirtMa-Mtuvirtaiih).  The 
Miimnv  Doenpied  by  the  Aryas  was  no  doubt  peopled  by  variom 
tribes m  and  divided  into  numerous  principalities.  In  H.V.  i.  126, 
a  king  Defied  Bli.ivya  is  celebrated,  who  dwelt  on  the  banks  of 
riindhu,  or  Indus  (antanthin  stouidn  prahhxre  nuuftihu  BindhCt  cihi 
kshv/iito  IthA\-y<uya  \  yo  me  sahatram  amtmUa  taeAn  atdrlo  riija  tratak 
ickhamSnah).  In  viii.  21,  18,  Chitra  and  other  chiefs  arc  alluded  to  ea 
living  near  the  Sarusvall  ( Chitrah  id  riljd  rvjak&k  anyake  yak*  Same*- 
t\m  hah).  Ten  kiugs  are  alluded  to  as  having  fought  against  Bodes, 
vii.  33,  3;  vii.  83,  6  ff.  (seo  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  319,  323  I). 
Numerous  names  of  kings  occur  in  the    Kig-veda.     The   meetings, 

1 1  friendly  or  hostile,  of  princes  are  alluded  to,  x.  97,  6  {raja 
triimiiiv  iva).     In  vii.   18,   2,   Indra  is  represented  as  living  in  lie 


it 


:■'..  l:.'L   Zai  I  iuiutur  und  Geschiohtfaai  Wtda,  pp.  131  f. 


KIXGS  AND  PRIXCirALlTIES. 


108 


society  of  his  wires  like  a  king,  or  dwelling  amid  lights,  as  a  kiog 
among  his  wives,  as  Sdysna  explains:  {r&jcxt  hi  janibhih  kthttht  «ra  am 
dyubhik),  which  appears  to  indicate  the  existence  of  royal  polygamy. 
In  x.  40,  3,  the  A Arins  are  said  to  come  to  the  libations  like  two 
kings'  sons  (r&japulr$va  tavttna  'ea  gaekhatah).  When  Mitra  and 
Yarnqa  aro  represented  in  ii.  41,  5;  v.  62,  6,  and  vii.  88,  5  (soo  above, 
p.  60),  as  occupying  a  grout  palace  with  a  thousand  pillars  and  a 
thousand  gates,  we  may  suppose  that  this  is  but  an  exaggerated 
description  of  a  royal  residence,  such  as  the-  poets  had  seen."*  And 
in  tho  same  way  we  may  imagine  that  the  description  of  Vurunn  in 
i.  25,  10,  13  (above,  p.  53),  as  sitting  in  his  house,  arrayed  in  golden 
mail  or  raiment,  surrounded  by  his  messengers  aud  exercising  aove- 
rcigoty,  was  suggested  by  the  ceremonial  of  a  contemporary  Raja's 
court.  It  appears  from  B.V.  iv.  60,  8  (quoted  in  tho  1st  vol.  of  this 
work,  p.  217),  that  it  was  regarded  as  eminently  beneficial  for  a  king 
to  entertain  a  family  priest :  and  in  point  of  fuct  we  find  that  tho 
liberality  of  different  princes  to  the  rishis  or  priests  by  whom  they 
were  attended  is  celebrated  in  numerous  passages  (see  tho  1st  vol.  of 
this  work,  p.  259,  and  my  articlo  "On  tho  relations  of  the  priests 
to  the  other  classes  of  Indian  society  in  the  Vedio  age,"  Journal  of 
the  ltoyal  Asiatic  Society,  for  1866,  pp.  272  ff.,  where  the  names  of 
numerous  royal  patrons  are  specified).  Tho  amount  and  variety  of 
the  presents  lavished  by  these  kings  upon  their  spiritual  advisers,  con- 
sisting of  cows,  sometimes  amounting  to  thousands  (v.  30,  12  ff.), 
horses,  chariots,  lumps  of  gold  (vi.  47,  23),  dresses  (dai'UvSn  daia 
Mi*  oW«  tmtrH  'dhibkyand  |  daio  Mrany*pi*J3n  JXnd&tdd  tint- 
than  |  data  rathGn  prathfimatah  ialam  ?*h  tOmrtabhyah  AitttthaA 
Pr.yart  ,d4dat),  and  elegantly-adorned  fomsle  slaves  (viii.  46,  83,  *dha 
tyd  yMhana  tnahl  praticKl  Vaian  Attyam  |  adhirukmA  r»  nlyaU),  even 
although  wo  should  suppose, — as  wo  probably  must, — that  there  is  a 
amount  of  exaggeration  in  the  passages  referred  to,  vi/.,  i.  l:(i. 
1  ff. ;  v.  27,  2 ;  v.  30,  12  ff. ;  v.  33,  8  ff. ;  t.  61,  10  ;  vi.  27.  8  ;  ti# 
47,  22  ff. ;  vi.  63,  9  f. ;  vii.  18,  22  ff.  ;  viii.  3,  21  ff.  ;  viii.  4.  19  ft. ; 
viii.  5,  37  ff. ;  viii.  6,  46  ff. ;  viiL  19,  36  f  ;  viii.  21,  1*  f. ;  viii.  24, 
29  f.;  viiL  46,  21  ff.  ;  viii.  54,  10  ff.  ;   viii.  57,  14  j   x.  33,  4  ff. ;  x. 

**  A.V.  iii.  12,  and  ix.  8  contain  prayers  ft*  the  (ability  of  •  how*  »i  il*  tin*  oi 

iti  cjustructwn. 


456 


KINGS  ASD  1'ElXCII'AI.ITIESt 


62,  6  ft. ;  x.  93,  11  f.,  ia  still  a  proof  that  very  considerable  wraith 
<kh  possessed  by  these  princes.  One  chieftain,  Kusu,  son  of  Cbcdi, 
ia  oven  said  to  have  given  to  the  rithi  ton  kings,  brilliant  as  gold,  tin. 

5,  38  (yo  «#  h\ro*ya-*a*drtio  data  rijno  m*mk*ta). 
Towards  the  close  of  the  Rig-vodu  two  hymns  occur  (x.  173  and  171 

in  which  blessings  are  invoked  on  a  king.  I  shall  quote  the  first,  x.  173: — 
1.  A  It  A  'hanham  imtar  tdhi  dhruvat  tishtK/irirhilchalih  j  ri'Jss  tod 
sarrCh  vutufiantu  aid  trad  rOthfratn  adhi  bhraiat  |  3.  Jhattaidkt  aatjw 
thyoththulf  parvatah  hGchathalih  |  Indrah  irtha  dhruraa  tidtfim  Om 
rfohfram  u  dhuraya  |  3.  Imam  Indro  adldharad  dhnmam  dim  m mm 
havithil  |  latmei  Somo  adhi  branit  tatmai  u  Brahmamaapatih  |  4.  ZMrurd 
dyaur  dhrvva  prithivl  dhrvtdsah  parvaldk  ime  \  dhrutam  viiram  idam 
jngad  dhruvo  rd/d  viidm  ay  an  \  6.  Dkruvam  U  ruj'd  Farmxo  ihrm+m 
aWo  Brihtupalih  |  dhruvam  It  Indrai  eha  Agnii  eha  rUthfram  dhurty*- 
(dm  dhrutam  |  6.  Dhntcam  dhrwtna  hacithd  aihi  Svtnam  mrii&mari  | 
at  ho  tt  Indrah  Iterator  *Ho  halihritat  karat  j 

"I  bare  brought  thoo  forward;  remain  in  tho  midst;  continue  firm 
and  immovable  ;  may  all  thy  subjects  desire  then !  may  thy  dominion 
not  full  away  from  thee  !  2.  Remain  here ;  do  not  fall ;  continue  im- 
movable as  a  mountain ;  abide  here  as  firm  as  Indra ;  support  hem  the 
realm.  3.  India  with  a  firm  oblation  has  hold  him  firm;  may  Soma, 
may  ISrahmanaapati,  take  his  part.  4.  Firm  is  the  sky,  Ann  the 
earth,  firm  these  hills,  firm  is  the  whole  world,  and  this  prince  ia  a 
firmly-established  king  over  his  subjects.  6.  May  king  V anion,  may 
tho  divine  Brihaspati,  may  Indra  and  Agni  firmly  maintain  thy  rule  I 

6.  We  urge  the  firm  Soma  with  a  firm  oblation.  And  now  may  lndm 
Bioko  thy  subjects  devoted  to  thee  alone,  and  bringcrs  of  tribute." 

Mention  is  also  made  of  rulers  or  governors  under  t  b  i   pur- 

pati,  lord  of  ft  city  or  fortified  placo  (i.  173,  10),  and  graman.1  rule*  of 
a  village,  or  tribe,  or  band  of  men.  The  latter  word  occurs  in  x.  62, 
11:  tahatradnh  grdmamir  ma  ruhan  manuh  idryrnCiya  yatamdm'i  Mm 
dakthimii  |  "Let  not  this  man  (Sivnrrji),  the  leader  of  the  people,  suffer 
calamity:  lot  his  largess  extend  to  the  sun;"**  and  in  x.  107,  5, 
dakthin&tin  gr<tman\r  agram  tti  |  "The  bestower  of  lxrgwsee  walks 
in  the  front  as  a  leader"  (see  above,  p.  434). 

m  Sec  the  context  in  my  piper  on  tlio  |>riati  in  lk«  Vatic  tgc.  Jour.  R.A.S.  for 
1866,  p.  276 


I 


DOMESTIC  RELATION'S  ,\XD  LIFE  AND  MOR\  457 

(5)  Different  rank*  m  eoeiety, — rich  and  poor. 

As  may  bo  concluded  from  the  facts  already  stated,  wo  find  in  tbo 
hymns  a  distinct  reference  to  rich  and  poor  as  existing  in  the  com- 
munity.  8eo  R.V.  x.  117,  quoted  above  in  page  431,  where  tbo 
existence  of  both  classes  is  distinctly  recognized,  and  liberality  on  the 
part  of  the  wealthy  is  recommended.  In  x.  107,  10.  the  house  of  the 
donor  of  largesse*  is  compared  to  a  lotus  pond,  and  is  said  to  bo  em- 
bellished like  a  palace  of  the  gods  (above,  p.  434,  and  compare  x.  132, 
7).  In  viii.  4,  9,  the  man  who  is  a  friend  of  Indrn  is  add  to  have 
horses,  chariots,  cows ;  to  be  handsome,  to  enjoy  vigorous  vitality,  mid 
to  come  resplendent  into  tho  assembly  {aivi  ratM  turilptib  id  gomdn  id 
Indr*  U  takha  |  hdtrubhoju  cuyatd  tachaU  sadil  chandro  yUi  tahkCin 
upa). 

(6)  Domestic  relation*  and  lifo  and  morale. 

There  are  in  the  hymna  distinct  trace*  of  the  existence  of  polygamy, 
though  it  was  no  doubt  the  exception,  uud  monogamy  the  rule.  Iu 
aomc  places  tho  husband  appears  to  be  described  as  having  only  one 
Ef  we  may  judge  from  the  fact  Unit  the  latter  is  mentioned  in  the 
singular.  Thus  in  i.  124,  7,  Ushus  is  said  to  display  her  form,  as  if 
smiling,  aa  a  loving  and  well-dressed  wife  does  to  her  hu»l*and  (Jdya 
it* paly*  uiatl  tw&t&h  l/tliah  kturA  iva  ni  rinlte  aptah;  compare  ir.  3, 
2,  and  x.  71,  4).  And  in  i.  105,  2,  it  U  said  d  juyd  yuiate  patim  | 
"Tho  wife  embraces  her  husband."  In  other  places  s  plurality  of 
wives  is  more  or  less  distinctly  intimated.  Thus  in  L  62,  11:  put  in 
m»  patnlr  uiatlr  uhntam  epriianti  fed  tacaiuvan  mattltAaA  |  "Our 
hymns  touch  thee,  o  strong  god,  as  loving  wives  a  loving  husbund ; " 
i.  71,  1  :  upa  pra  jiniaun  uialtr  utanUm  pttim  ma  m.'yo*  jjnayth 
ntnxlah  |  natdrah  \  "  The  loving  sisters  [i.e.  fingers]  have  stirred  np 
tbo  loving  [Agni],  as  wires  dwelling  together  their  own  husbands ;'"■ 
L  105,  8  (=  x.  33,  2) :  earn  ma  tapanti  abhilah  tapatnlr  ira  pariacah  | 
"My  riba"  (or,  according  to  the  Xiruktu  and  8iyana,  the  sides  of  tho 
well)  "  press  painfully  ou  mc  all  around,  like  rival  wives  (literally, 

**  I  should  otoro  that  both.  Sijuna  and  Professor  Bcnfer  ©eaatra*  the  qntbH 
SBfj8a|  "  iiasBof  together,  or  in  una  bomc"  wit*  tasjundi « the  sistars,"  aad  avt 

;ir*»y«*"wiTes." 


118 


D0ME8TIC  RELATION'S  AND  LIFE  AND  MORALS. 


co-wives);"  i.  186,  7:  Um  fw  giro  janayo  no  patnlh  &urabhithtamt& 
narttA  luuenla  |  "  HymnB  haste  to  him  the  meet  pleasing  of  heroes,  m 
women  who  are  wives ; "  vii.  2fi,  3 :  janlr  tea  paixr  ekah  m«4jw  m 
mamrije  purah  Indrxih  (it  tarr&h  |  "  Indru  look  to  him  all  the  cities,  at 
(one)  common  husband  his  wives ; "  x.  A'i,  1 :  pari  sAmjanU  /may* 
yatha  patin  |  "[Tho  hymns]  embrace  [Indra]  as  wives  a  husband." 
The  Satap.  Br.  ix  1,  4,  6,  distinctly  avows  tho  principle  of  polygamy, 
and  states  the  origin  of  tho  practice  after  its  own  fashion  :  Pumm  pun*- 
««di  /uhoti  alba  iMbbyah  \  pumilmsafft  lad-vlry«*a  atyHdadkuti  \  *tm- 
tnai  :t;>  pvmxe  j'ulioli  bahvlbhyah  ira  tlrlbhyah  |  tatmdd  mpy  Auyt 
pufino  bahcyojnyijlj  bhmanti  \  ubhAbhydik  tathatktirtn*  cha  trOkaiartmt 
cha  pttmtt  juhoti  tv&huhur e.na  eva  ttrlbhyak  |  pumuStnm  «M  rW  tlrypa 
atymludhUi  |  (i  Soa  to  tlie  man  first,  then  to  the  women.    He 

exults  the  man  in  consequence  of  his  vigour.  Ho  sacrifices  to  the  mm 
as  to  one,  and  to  the  women  as  to  many.  Hence  also  one  man  has 
many  wives.  Ho  sacrifices  to  tho  man  both  with  tho  vashatkAra  sad 
the  avnhakara,  to  tho  women  with  the  latter  alone.  He  exults  the 
man  in  consequence  of  hia  vigour."  It  seems  to  have  been  considered 
a  misfortune  for  a  womnn  to  be  left  nn  old  maid  to  her  father's  bouN 
(6ce  the  cose  of  Ghosha,  above,  p.  847).  It  would  lead  me  too  for  b> 
attempt  to  give  any  description  of  the  marriage  ceremonial,  for  which 
I  must  refer  the  render  to  Weber'a  Indischo  Studicn,  v.  1 77  8.  (an 
also  R.V.  x.  109).  Women  appear  to  hnvo  been  permitted  to  many 
a  second  time,  according  to  A.V.  ix.  5,  27  f,  quoted  nbove,  in  the 
section  on  Yuma,  p.  306  (see  also  the  I  at  voL  of  this  work,  pp.  281  ft". 
In  i.  12-1,  7,  Ushas  is  said  to  show  herself,  as  a  female,  without 
brother  (her  natural  protector),  is  said  to  show  herself  to  a  man  ( 
teen  puiiitt  eli  protlchl).  Wicked  liars  arc  compared,  in  iv.  5,  5,  to 
women  without  brothers,  and  evil-disposed  wives  hostile  to  their  hus- 
bands [abkrStaro  na  yo*fieno  ryantah  pitlirtpo  nit  janayo  durevSh  \fip3r 
tah  tanlah  arifiiuh  UttfOf  idam  padam  ajanala  gabblram). 

The  eleventh  and  twelfth  verses  of  K.V.  x.  27,  are  as  follows: 
yatyanahhd  dubita  jctu  Cta  km  trim  riVr/ia  abhimnnyeta  andham  | 
kataro  mmim  prati  tarn  WttuhSU  yah  Im  rahilt*  yah  \m  cd  rwrnydl  |  12. 
hijitli  yoikd  maryato  vadhayah  ptriprltA  panyatd  tCrytma  |  aAaird 
tadh&r  bhavaliyat  supesdh  svayafit  a<",  mitraik  tanutejan*  chit  |  11."  Who 
kaowingly  will  desire  tho  blind  daughter  of  any  man  who  ha*  oat? 


■MmI 


DOMESTIC  RELATIONS  AND  LIKE  AND  MORALS. 


•459 


Or  who  will  hurl  a  javelin  at  him  who  carries  off  or  woes  such  a 
female?  12.  IIow  many  a  woman  is  satisfied  with  the  great  weulUi 
of  him  who  seeks  her  !  Eappy  is  the  female  who  is  handsome :  she 
herself  loves  [or  chooses]  fan  I'm  ml  among  the  people."  Way  we  not 
infer  from  this  passage  that  freedom  of  choice  in  the  selection  of 
husbands  was  allowed,  sometimes,  at  least,  to  women  in  those 
times?  The  Svay  tun  vara,  or  selection  of  titer  own  husbands  by  kings' 
daughters,  appears,  from  the  Mohabhurata,  to  have  been  a  common  pruc- 
D  Inter  time*.     See  the  wrll-kimwn  "tory  of  Naln  and  PumnyntT. 

A  passage  has  been  quoted  above  (p.  82  note)  from  the  Taitt.  Hr. 
ii.  4,  2,  7,  the  commencement  of  which,  though  not  altogether  clear, 
may  bo  translated  thus:  "The  divino  and  fortunate  IndrirjT,  wife  of 
on  excellent  husband,  was  victorious  by  a  part,  in  the  acquisition  of  • 
husband."     Did  young  women  at  that  time  compete  for  busbunds  ? 

The  following  allusion  to  the  relations  of  a  widow  with  her  deceased 
husband's  brother  occurs  in  a  Terse  addressed  to  the  Aivins,  x.  40,  2 
(  =  Nir.  iii.  15):  2TuAd  triii  deahtl  kvha  v<utor  Aivina  IxikCibhiyUcoA 
haratah  kuhoihalah  \  ko  ram  iayulrd  iiJIinirva  dtraratx  maryaxn  na 
jfot&d  krtnuU  ladaitho  a  \  "  Where  ore  you  by  night,  Aiviua,  and 
by  duy  ?  where  do  you  alight  ?  where  have  yoo  dwelt  ?  wlio 
draw*  you  to  his  house,  as  a  widow  does  her  brother-in-law  to  the 
couch,  or  as  a  woman  does  a  man  ? "  In  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta, 
p.  32,  Professor  Hotli  refers,  in  olucidation  of  this  comparison,  to  Manu, 
ix.  69,  70,  where  it  i*  Snjoini  1  Hut  in  certain  circumstances  n  widow 
gludl  bo  married  to  her  deceased  husband's  brother.  In  verse  60  it 
is  ruled  that  the  uuion  shall  only  subsist  until  one  son  has  been  pro- 
created. It  will  thus  be  seen  that  tho  ancient  law  of  India  corre- 
sponded in  this  respect  with  that  of  the  Jews,  as  expounded  in  Dcu> 
iny,  xxv.  6:  compare  St.  Matthew,  xxii.  24  ff.  This  custom 
appears  to  be  referred  to  in  the  somewhat  obscure  verso  before  ua. 

By  tho  kindness  of  Professor  Max  Miillir  I  am  enabled  to  give 
Bnytaa'o  explanation  of  the  verse : — Kincha  rtJm  yui'ltTt  ko  yaj<tmuna\ 
"itt4ha4lh0"  lahatth'lne  ttdy-nkhyt  "  ikj-iifule"  |  p*ritharaniiriham 
almobhintukhlktreii  \  Mra  drii-kfuntam  Jnriay.il i  \  "  tayutra""  ieyan* 
"Fi*ifA.ir«ii"  yatka  mfiUibkartrikil  itdrl  "  detanim''  bhartribhrataram 
alhimukkihtroli  |  " MarynSt  na"  y*tk<l  fka  tartum  manwAym  " yodul'' 
mmi'cS  ndrl  tantbhcga-kuU  'bhmukhikaroti  Udiad  iff  arlkak  |  "what 


-;.!'! 


.\TIOXS  AND  LIFE  AND  MORALS. 


worshipper  places  you  in  hi*  own  presence  at  the  altar  to  serve  j 
He  illustrates  this.  As  a  woman  whoso  husband  is  dead  place*  her 
husband's  brother  before  her  on  the  bed,  or  a  woman  at  the  time  of 
sexual  connection  places  a  man  before  her."  Then  follows  a 
from  the  K irukta  iii.  16,  on  the  same  Terse. 

On  the  occasion  of  the  marriage  ceremonial,  a  wish  is 
the  brido's  favour  that  she  may  be  a  queen  OTer  her  fnther-in-brw,  | 
mother-in-law,  her  husband's  sister,  and  his  brothers,  x.  85,  46  (mmtrijut 
*Wwrv  Mara  lamrtjnl  irairtim  Mora  |  nan&ndari  tamrCtjn\  ikarm  mm- 
r<~,jnl  adhi  detrithu).  In  viii.  2, 20  reference  is  made  to  an  nrwmiablc  soc- 
in-law  (atrirah  irajamuUi} ;  bnt  it  is  not  very  clear  what  ho  is  intended 
to  illustrate.  In  i.  1 09,  2,  tho  poet  says  he  has  heard  that  Indra  and 
Agni  are  more  liberal  than  an  inferior  aon-in-low,  or  a  wife's  brother 
(airavaih  hi  bh\lrutiitxUtar&  fl*  vjimOtur  uta  c.J  fha  lyOtut).  Yaaks 
(Kir.  vi.  9)  explains  the  word  vijGmGtfi  of  n  person  who  is  not  complete 
in  all  necessary  requisites  (atHtamfipt/ij  JUmutuA)  ;  and  adds  that  tha 
people  of  the  south  always  speak  of  this  word  an  denoting  a  man  who 
has  purchased  his  wife  (rijdiwl/d  Hi  iairad  dahhinfijah  IrUapatim 
&thahhaU  |  asutamiiptah  ira  vtro  'bhiprtlah). 

Allusions  to  conjugal  infidelity  and  sexual  immorality  are  not 
wauling.  In  x.  34,  4,  reference  seems  to  bo  made  to  the  gambler's 
wife  Icing  the  object  of  other  men's  intrigues  (afty«/dyun*  pari  mriiaii 
asya  yatija  egtidheA  vedane  tajl  akthak  |  see  above,  p.  426).  la 
x.  40,  6,  mention  is  made  of  a  woman  resorting  to  her  remlesvoas 
{nithkfitan  no  yo»ka»&)  comp.  x.  34,  5  {nuliritaSi  juriml  ♦Vd)8**  which, 
if  a  married  woman  is  meant,  implies  an  adulterous  connection.  In 
ii.  29,  1,  Mitra  and  Varuna  arc  prayed  to  remoro  the  worshipper's 
sin,  as  a  woman  who  bears  a  child  secretly  puts  it  away  (drw  mat 
iurta  rahat.Hr  iicjah)^'    In  i.  167,  4,  we  find  the  words parti  . 


•**  The**  word*  (nUMjUam  i*a  pnticmH)  prom  either  conjugal  infidelity,  if  ] 
or  Jarin!  mcua  a  married  woman,  or  if  they  refer  to  an  unmarried  f<m*lr,  it  i 
ihcw  that  young  lover*  mado  aaaignmiuiM,  and  therefore  that  WfJOrn  had 
liberty,  and  were  not  confined  ss  in  later  thnrr  In  i,  107,  .1,  occur  the  wottk  fmJai 
charami  mantu/io  no  yothi  |  "  like  a  man'*  wife  ntoruig  or  acting  •eenrth." 
.  however,  refer*  them  only  to  the  privacy  of  tha  fonulo  apartmensa.  Se* 
Wilton  in  loco. 

«*•  See  Professor  Wil»on'»  tnmelution  and  note  in  loco,  and  Introduction  to  to*,  n. 


DHKSS,  ORNAMENTS,  BKL 


461 


ayfito  yacyA  iAdhiiranyeva  Marulo  tnimifahuh  |  which  Professor  Wilson, 
following  Siiynna,  renders  "  The  radiant,  ever-moving,  MaruU  have 
mingled  with  (their)  associate  (lightning),  like  (youths)  with  common 
n."  The  word*  are  quoted  by  Professor  M.  Muller,  translation 
of  R.V.  L  176,  but  without  uny  explanation  on  the  point  under  con- 
si  deration. 

In  tx.  67,  10  ff.  the  poet  prays,  and  twice  repents  the  prayer,  that 
P&shan  would  protect  liim  in  all  his  goings,  and  provide  him  with  a 
supply  of  damsels  (ari'A!  no  ajukah  I'Cmha  y&mani  yumami  &  bhalxhat 
kanyutu  nah  |  11.  aywli  wmah  kapardine  ghriktm  tta  pavutt  madhu  \  & 
bhakthtit  kamy&iu  nah  |  12.  ayaih  U  dghri**  **l°  ghrit«A  na  pavatt 
tutAi  |  a  bhakthat  kanyitu  ruth).  The  general  opinion  of  the  poet's 
contemporaries  in  rogard  to  tho  female  sex  appears  to  bo  intimated  in 
the  following  words  put  into  the  mouth  of  Indra,  viii.  33,  17.  Indrai 
chid  gha  tad  abravit  ttriyrlh  ain»yam  manah  \  uto  aha  krtilum  ragkum  | 
"  Indra  declared  that  tho  mind  of  u  woman  was  ungOTornablo  and  her 
temper  fickle." 

In  Volakhilya  8,  3,  mention  is  made  of  a  gift  of  one  hundred  glares 
(ia/aA  diiian  ati  trajah).  In  B..V.  viii.  40,  32,  Professor  Itoth  con- 
jectures («.r.  dam)  that  the  correct  rending  is  latum  dtUdn  |  "I 
received  a  hundred  sluves."  (See  my  article  on  the  priests  in  tho 
Vudio  age,  Jour.  11. A. 3.  for  I860,  p.  275).  Compare  tho  word  data- 
pratarga  in  II. V.  i.  92,  8,  quoted  above  in  p.  184,  and  translated 
in  p.  136. 

As  regards  tho  morals  of  the  people,  in  othor  respects  than  those 
which  relate  to  the  relations  of  tho  sexes,  it  may  be  mentioned  that 
untruth  is  condemned  in  a  verse  already  quoted,  iv.  6,  6,  and  tho 
gods  are  said  (L  1S2,  1 ;  vii.  40,  3 ;  vii.  81,  2)  to  pani«h  lying.  Fre- 
quent mention  is  raado  of  the  friendship  borne  by  the  gods  to  their 
votaries,  which  seems  to  imply  tho  existence  of  a  similar  special  re- 
lation of  affection  between  somo  of  their  worshippers.  8eo  also  hymn 
x.  71,  translated  in  the*  third  volume  of  this  work,  p,  256.  In  x.  117 
(as  I  hare  already  noticed,  p.  457)  beneficence  to  the  poor  is  commended. 

(7)  Drtsa,  ornamenU,  tie. 

References  are  made  in  various  places  to  well-dressed  females, 
ir.  3,  2  j  x.  71,  4  (jtyeut  patyt  tUatl  nttdtdh);  x.  107,  9,  or  to  elegant, 


462 


DRESS,  0RMAM1LNTS.  ETC. 


veil- made  garment*,  v.  29,  15  (tnutreta  bkodrH  tulriid).  From  then 
pnw|Kn  and  other*  relating  to  jewel*,  as  in  Yiit.  46,  33,  quoted  above, 
p.  455,  we  may  gather  that  considerable  attention  tu  already  paid 
to  personal  decoration.  Wc  derive  from  them  no  information  regarding 
tho  shape  or  materials  of  the  clothing  worn,  further  than  may  be  learnt 
from  the  meution  of  sheep  and  of  wool  in  in  ".26,  7; 

ti.  IS,  1G;  x.  75,  8).  But  it  is  difficult  to  conecivo  that  ootluo 
i ,  m  I  learn  from  Professor  J.  II.  Balfour,  is  supposed  to  bar*  Ua 
indigenous  in  India),  though  not  mentioned  in  tiio  hymns,  should  hare 
boon  unknown  when  they  were  composed,  or  not  employed  for  wwi»| 
the  light  cloth  which  U  necessary  in  so  warm  a  climate.  Tho  Conn  of 
tho  garments  was  probably  much  the  some  as  among  tho  modem 
Hi mlim,  unless  it  be  that  some  innovations  may  hare  been  introduced 
Mohammedans.  A  turban  or  bead-dress  (uthnUka)*"  u  men- 
tioned in  the  A.V.  xv.  2,  1. 

Two  of  the  Yiilii-  deities,  lludra  and  Pushan,  art  said  to  to.- 
hair  wound  or  braided  spirally  upwards  into  the  form  of  a  shell,  as 
tho  word  "kupardin"  in  B.V.  i.  114,  1,5;  vi.  55,  2  ;  and  ix.  67.  II,  '■' 
explained  in  the  dictionary  of  Professors  Biihtlingk  and  Both;  and  ta 
vii.  83,  8,  tho  sumo  epithet  is  appliod  to  tho  TriUua  (the  tribe  to 
which  Vucdahthu  lel-jayed)  [tpitjfoatho  yatr*  M»nt*a  knptrdinm^ 
jswi)."1  In  x.  Ill,  8,  a  young  female,  handsome  and  brilliant 
does  not  clearly  appear  who  she  is,  as  tho  passage  is  obecure 
enigmatical)  ia  said  te  wear  four  of  these  braids  [ekultuXktptriJk 
.1,  nupfiiik  ghriiapral'tka.  rayuuuni  r/ule).     And;  ,  I,  the 

priests  of  tho  family  of  Vnnishtha  ore  said  to  have  their  hair-knots  oe 
the  right  of  their  heads  and  to  1 0  robed  in  white  (jcrifyanosa  wu- 
dakthinalat-kapardak  ityudi;  comp.  vii.  83,  8  already  quoted).-  In 
Tarioua  passages  alretuly  cited  (pp.  149  f.)  the  liaruts  arc  ? 
vatr  different  sorts  of  ornament*,  which  were  probably  similar  to  what 
were  worn  by  the  poet's  countrymen  or  country  worn ; 


o  to 

2 


«*'  In  regard  to  the  word  tiptm  sco  above,  p.  MO. 

•s  See  tbi  mil.'  pfctarc  of  lbs  jod  BTra  at  the  beginning  of  the  K.mtaT  edition 
the  Linen  Pi  tl  Wil*on  ».«•.  ktpardn,  explain*  it  manly  as  M  braaM  bast 

«•»  Sec  Both  Zur  UtL  u.  G«chicnto  de*  YV«da,  p.  120. 


. 


POOD  AND  DRINK. 


4^,;; 


(8)  Food  and  drink. 

In  the  Itig-veda  (sec  i.  23,  15  ;  i.  60,  3 ;  i.  117.  21,  etc.)  frequent 
mention  is  made  of  yava,  which  in  Inter  Sanskrit  means  barlej ;  but 
according  to  tho  Lexicon  of  Messrs.  Buhtlingk  and  Itoth,  t.v.  appears 
to  have,  in  early  times,  denoted  corn  in  general.  Rice  (rrlAi)  according 
to  the  same  outhority  is  not  referred  to  in  the  Rig-redo,  but  is  named 
in  the  Artharva-veda,  as  well  as  bntloy,  and  masha  (beans)  and  lilra 
(aewtmum  orientalo);  see  vi.  140,  2  (criAi'm  attath  yatam  attam  alho  mu- 
tham  athu  tilam).  Parched  corn  {dhunti)  is  mentioned  in  several  placet 
of  thoR.V.,as  L  16,  2  ;  iii.  .">■">,  :i ;  iii.  •r>L),  5 ;  ft  -9,4,  as  an  offering  to 
the  gods;  and  in  iii.  35,  7,  is  said  to  be  provided  as  food  for  India's 
horse*.  Cakes  (apapa)  and  meal  mixed  with  curds  or  butter  (jhtrom- 
bha)  are  said  to  bo  ofFercd  to  tho  gods,  iii.  62,  7;  vi.  57,  2.  l-'ni-r 
(phala)  is  mentioned  in  iii.  45,  4  (see  above,  p.  107);  i.  116,  5. 
Plants  {othadhi,  vlrudh)  are  frequently  alluded  to,  and  arc  even  invoked 
vj.  49,  14;  vii.  84,  23;  vii.  35,  5;  x.  97,  1  ff.,  whero  some  of  them 
are  spoken  of  as  produced  three  ages  before  tho  gods;  verso  1  (jriA 
oxhndh'ih  pitrvuh  j6t<ih  dwtbhyat  (riyuyam  pwu~\ ;  and  are  said  in  verse 
4  to  be  divine  [d*t\h~] ;  in  verses  3  aal  15  to  be  some  of  them  ilowering 
and  productive  and  fruit-bearing,  and  others  not  [piuhptttlih  prati- 
titrik  |  ydh  phalin'ir  yah  aphalah  apmhpiih  y<U  t*ha  piuhpinlh],  and  in 
verses  1 1  and  1 2  to  drive  away  disease.  Medicaments  {hluthaja)  are  also 
frequently  red  Trod  to.  The  cutting  up  of  flesh,  apparently  for  sacri- 
ficial purposes,  is  mentioned  in  ono  place,  i.  161,  10  {mutiuan  ekak 
piikfati  siinayil  "bhrilam).  In  \.  164,  43  roferenco  is  mode  to  the 
cooking  of  a  bull  as  being  a  primeval  institution  (uithiinam  priinim 
ap«tha*ta  tlrrl#  tuni  dharmuni  pratkaau'mi  own  |  oomp.  x.  27,  2;  x. 
28,  3).**  In  v.  29,  7;  viii.  12,  H;  viii,  66,  10,  mention  is  made  of 
the  gods  cooking  or  eating  large  numbers  of  buffaloes  (see  above, 
p.  90).  From  tho  fact  of  then!  animals  being  offered  in  sacrifice,  it 
may  perhaps  bo  inferred  that  they  also  formed  a  portion  of  human 
food.    Intoxicating  liquors  are  mentioned  in  the  hymns.    As  regards 


*»  See  tho  "geiwrsl  note"  appendix!  to  Sir  VT.  Jones's  truuktiun  nf  Ifanii ;  st»l 
Miuio  xi.  69,  ulrrr  fcMU  it  meauonwl  u  sa  upt/ufks,  or  minor  sia.  Sec  alu 
ram  101 


4G4 


PROFESSIONS  AND  TRADES. 


tho  eoma-jiiicc,  eeo  above,  p.  89,  note  169.  Wine,  nrS,  (though  it 
not  ap]>cur  from  what  material  it  was  distilled)0*  was  alto  in  mar,  at 
appears  from  several  passages  already  quoted,  via.  L  116,  7  (p.  24*) 
and  vii.  86,  6  (p.  66) ;  and  x.  107,  9  (p.  434).  It  is  also  mentioned 
in  viii.  2,  12,  hrittu  pUSta  yudhyanU  durmad'Uo  na  ittrSytim  |  "  Whw 
drunk  they  (the  soma-draughts)  contend  in  thy  stomach,  as  men  mad- 
dened with  wine."  Swillers  of  wine,  turSWah,  arc  mentioned  in 
viii.  21,  14,  as  we  have  seen  above  (p.  112,  noio  201).  In  L  191,  10, 
we  find  the  following  words:  SQryt  vitham  a  mjami  dritim  marmmk 
grihe  |  "  I  place  the  poison  in  the  sun,  like  a  [wine]»kin  in  tha  houat 
of  a  keeper  of  wine."  8ee  alto  Vfij.  Sanh.  xix.  5,  7;  8atap>  Br.  rii 
7,  3,  B,  and  12;  sii.  8,  1,  16  ;  commentary  on  Vuj.  8.  xix.  44;  and 
A.V.  xiv.  1,  35  f.  (translated  in  Wafer*!  Ind.  Stud.  t.  197).  In 
regard  to  the  light  in  which  wine  drinking  was  regarded  in  later 
tho  reader  may  consult  Manu,  xi.  61,  90,  93-97,  148  f-,  249. 

(9)  Proftuioni  and  trade*. 

In  R.V.  ix.  112,  as  wc  hare  already  accn  (p.  424),  the  variety  ia 
men's  tastes  and  pursuits  is  described,  and  come  of  their  different  occu- 
pations are  mentioned,  viz.,  those  of  carpenter,  physician,  priest,  blaek- 
Minith  (compare  x.  72,  2),  poet,  and  female  grinder  of  corn.  That  man 
is  said  to  be  a  skilled  physician,  and  both  n  slayer  of  Rakahaaea  and  a 
repcller  of  diseases,  by  whom  all  plants  are  collected,  like  kings  in  an 
assembly,  x.  97,  6  {yatraiuhadhlfr  aamagwtata  rajOnah  tamitUt  sea  | 
vtprah  ta  uehyate  bktihag  rakthoha  'mtta-ehutanai).  The  oonstrnotua 
of  chariots  is  often  alluded  to,  and  the  skill  shown  in  the  compoaitioB 
of  hymns  is  described  as  a  fabrication,  and  compared  to  the  art  of  the 
carriage-builder,  i.  61,  4  ;  i.  62,  18  ;  i.  ISO,  6 ;  L  171,  2  ;  ii.  15,  8 ; 
ii.  85,  2  ;  iv.  16,  20;  v.  2,  11 ;  v.  29,  16;  v.  73,  10;  vi.  32,  1 ;  x. 
89,  14,  etc.  (see  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  233,  236  t,  24 1 ).  The 
llibhus  arc,  as  wo  have  already  seen  (p.  226),  celebrated  for  their 
ability  as  workers  in  wood  and  metal,  which  further  indicates  the 
existence  and  appreciation  of  such  skill  at  the  period  in  question. 
Skill  in  the  manufacture  of  weapons  of  war  and  cither  sharp-edged 

»»  In  Manu  xi.  04,  it  U  onid  to  be  of  three  kinds,  $**p,  pWM/7,  TfflrfssT, 

from  moluact,  meal,  or  the  Sowers  of  tlio  uuulhu  plant. 


PEOFESSIONS  AND  TRADES. 


implements  must  have  been  common,  as  spears  (rtfil),  swords  or  kniron 
(n«),  axes  (paraiu,  tt-adhiti),  are  constantly  mentioned,  i.  162,  •>>\; 
x.  79,  8  ;  x.  86,  18  ;  ix.  96,  fi  ;  i.  127,  :t  |  rii.  104,  21  ;  x.  28,  8  ; 
x.  53,  '.»;  vi.  3,  3;  vi.  47,  10;  viii.  91,  19.  'Weaving,  it  is  scarcely 
neoossury  to  any,  iru  universally  practised,  as  we  learn  from  the 
references  already  quoted  to  cloth,  and  from  the  metaphorical  use  of 
the  verb  ve,  "to  weave,"  for  the  composition  of  hymns,  etc.  Thus  in 
i.  61,  8  :  (derapatnir  IndrHya  arkam  ahihalye  BHbJ  |  "The  wives  of  the 
gods  wovo  a  hymn  to  Indra  on  his  slaughter  of  Ahi),"  vii.  33,  9  and  12 
(•eo  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  247);  x.  130,  1  (ibid.  p.  277  f.). 
The  warp  and  woof  {tartu  and  tin)  are  both  mentioned  in  vi.  9,  1  and 
2:  nChath  tantuvi  rut  tij&nimi  otum  ilyddi  |  "I  know  not  the  warp 
and  I  know  not  the  woof,"  etc.  (Those  two  versos  are  translated  by 
Professor  Benfey  iu  the  Glossary  to  hiB  Sama-veda,  p.  76 ;  see  also 
A.V.  xiv.  2,  51).  The  art  of  boat-  or  ship-building  was  well  known, 
as  appears  from  the  fiecjuent  mention  made  of  bouts  or  ships  («u«  or 
plan),  i.  Ufi,  3;  i.  162,  B  f . ;  i.  131,  2;  ii.  39.  4  ;  viii.  42,  3;  viii. 
72,  3 ;  ix.  70,  10,  propelled  by  oars,  x.  101,  2  (ndram  antrapara^lm). 
Ships  are  even  spoken  of  ns  going  to  Bea  (see  shove,  p.  241  f.,  and 
;.  25,  7,  mJruA  numudriyah:  vii.  88,  3  f.).  The  Asvins  are  Bsttd  be 
have  conveyed  Bhujyu  in  a  chip  with  a  hundred  oars  {iadrilrdm 
HJmh).  Hope-making  also  must  havo  been  practised,  as  ropes  are 
mentioned,  i.  162,  8,  or  their  absence  referred  to,  ii.  13,  9 ;  vii.  84,  2. 
Working  in  leather  must  also  have  been  common,  as  hides  {<hartn*», 
i.  85,  6 ;  vi.  8,  3  ;  vii.  n.l,  1 ),  and  skins  for  holding  water  or  wine  [drift) 
are  constantly  referred  to,  i.  191,  10 ;  iv.  45,  1,  3;  v.  83,  7;  vi.  48, 
18;  vii.  89,  2;  vii.  103,  2;  viii.  5,  19.  Agriculture,  as  wo  have 
already  seen  (p.  427),  is  recommended  to  the  gambler  in  x.  34,  13, 
ami  in  the  hymn  to  Arnnyiml,  x.  14G,  6  (above,  p.  423),  the  goddess 
is  said  to  be  untilled  by  husbandmen  (afyuAIra/tf).  R.V.  iv.  67,  is  n 
hymn  in  which  the  Kshetrasya  pati,  or  deity  who  is  the  protector  of 
the  soil  or  of  husbandry,  is  addressed,  and  a  blessing  is  invoked  on 
ions,  and  their  instruments,  and  on  the  cultivators  (linttfa). 
Compare  x.  117,  7.  Urmrti,  cultivated  and  fcrtilo  land,  is  mco- 
.  places.  Watercourses  {kulyti),  which  may  or  may  not 
have  been  artificial,  are  alluded  to,  in  iii.  45,  3,  and  x.  43,  7  tiauut- 
ktharm  tomutah  Indraft  kulyih  iui  hradam),  as  leading  to  ponds  or 


AXIMAI.3.  TAME  OR  WILD  WED  18  TQS  IIYMNS.     467 

stealing  secretly  (see  above,  p.   174  f. ;  i.  50,  2  :  apa  tye  Idyata  yalka 
nakttulrA   yaitti  aktubhih   \  "  Thf  it  before  the  sua'*  rays, 

like  thieves,"  i.  63,  1 ;  i.  191,  5  {«U  «  tye  praty  airikrtm  pndothaA 
tatkarAh  ica  \  "  They  have  been  seen  in  the  evening  like  thieves") ;  ii. 
28,  10;  ir.  .38,  5  (uta  tnia  nam  iattyumu(h\i',i  |tf  tiiyum  ana  Iroianli 
bhtfayo  bhamhit  \  "Men  cry  alter  him  in  battles  a*  after  I 
stealing  clothes");  v.  15,  6;  v.  62,  12;  Ti.  12,  5;  rii.  55,  3;  vii. 
88,  8:  viii.  23,  6;  x.  4,  6. 


(12)  Animah,  tame  or  wild,  mtntionid  in  tht  kymru. 

The  mention  of  kino  and  horscse,T  (both  in  prayers  to  the  gods  to 
bestow  them  in  abundance,  and  iu  the  details  of  gifU  conferred  upon 
poets  or  priests)  is  too  frequent  to  require  further  specification-  Sheep 
{an,  arikn,  ura,  vutha)  ore  also  frequently  referred  to,  i.  43,  6 ;  i.  51,  1 ; 
L  52,  1  ;  i.  1 16,  16  ;  viii.  2,  2  ;  viii.  31,  3  j  ix.  6,  1 ;  x.  95,  3 ;  and 
goats  {<ija,  chhilga)  in  i.  162,  3  f. ;  and  x.  90,  10.  Allusion  is  made  in 
x.  27, 17  to  tho  cooking  of  a  fat  rum  (p\r<inam  mesham  apathanla  rir&h). 
In  Valakhilya  viii.  3,  reference  is  made  to  the  gift  of  a  hundred  eves 
(Jstam  Dradrattn&m).  In  i.  126,  7  tho  own  of  the  Gamdhiiris  are 
spoken  of  aa  famous  for  their  wool  [romaia  GandMrlndm  tea  ante). 
Dogs  are  often  alluded  to.  In  ii.  39,  4  the  two  Aavin*  ore  compared 
to  two  dogs  (itumi  ira).  The.  mythological  dogs  of  Yuma  have  been 
already  referred  to  (in  p.  294).  A  long-tongued  dog  which  brought 
no  good  is  mentioned  as  aa  object  of  dread  to  be  driven  away,  ix. 
101,  1  and  13  (apa  ivilnam  buUhithfana  mkhayo  dtrghajikryatn  |  ops 
hUnom  arQdhdtam  halo  makham  na  BKrigacah).  Apes,  kapi,  (x. 
86,  5),  boors,  caraha  (viii.  66,  10 ;  x.  28,  4),  buffaloes,  mahttha  (sea 
above,  p.  00  and  463),  doer,  mriya  (i.  38,  5 ;  I  105,  8),  r*»V«  (riii. 
4,  10),  jackals  and  foxes,  knukfri,  lopaia,  x.  28,  4,  and  « 
aHldcrika  (x.  95,  15),  lions,  tiihha  (x.  28,  4 ;  iv.  16,  14),  wolves,  rp&a, 
tftil,  i.  116, 16 ;  viii.  55,  8,  as  devouring  sheep,  viii.  34,  3  (•*#•«*  n* 
dhunuU  rrikiih),  and  deer,  i.  106,  8  {vriie  na  triihnajam  tnriyam). 
mt»  al*o  aw  possibly  mentioned  under  the  d  on  of  mrija 

rdraga   viii.    33,  8 ;   x.  40,  4   (tArayt   being   an   elephant   in  later 

•*  Id  Tiii.  2,  2  «llu»ioii  U  made  U>  be  a  bom  beinfj  waibed  in  a  river  («/r»  »« 
mkio  .<M«7iA>). 


468     AXIM.W.S.  TAME  OR  WIIJ),  MESTIONKD  I.N  T7IE  HTM5S. 


Sanskrit) ;  certainly  under  that  of  mpijj  hastm  (the  wild  animal  vim 
the  hand  or  trunk)  i.  64,  7  ;  ir.  1G,  14.     Theae  texts  are  as  fbflom: 
mriftlh  ire  hattinah  khndatha  vend  |  "  Y«  (MnruU),   like 
devour  the  wood*;*-  iv.   16,  14:    nryo  nm  Uitl  imtuAlm 
«'*Ao  nn  Ihimah  HyudhAni  hibhrat  "  [IndraJ  consuming  (brae  like  a 
elephant :    liko  a  terrible  Hod,  carrying  weapons;  viii.  33,  8  (  =  8-V. 
ii.  1047);  dana  tango  n*  tdraipth  punttri  chanxttam  d*dX*  |  which  is 
thus  rendered  by  Professor  Both,  «.c.  rfdiw,  2,  "  After  feasting  he  ruse 
hither  and  thither  like  u  beast  of  prey.'"*    x.  40,  4 :  yurum  aws/are 
r<ir<i{i>j  !/iriy,in>j,ico  dosha  v«*tor  hatUhii  ni  hwf&mah*  |  "  Wc  laraks 
you  twain  [Ajvins]  night  and  day,  as  hunter*  [seek  to  catch]  tee 
wild  animals.'"*1     In  the  tint  three  of  these  postage*   the  elephant 
(if  meant  in  the  third)  is  referred  to  merely  aaa  terrible  wild  beast; 
in  tho  fourth  there  ia  an  allusion  to  the  hunting  of  wild  animals, 
and  if  cliphanta  arc   intended,  wo  may  perhaps   infer   that,  at  the 
j  i  :  i<>d  when  thnt  verse  was  composed,  they  had  begun  to  be  tamed. 
There  seems  no  reason  to  doubt  that  In  A.V.  ix.  3,  17,  a  female 
rinfUmnt   is   meant   by  kattt'nl  :    "  Thou,    hall   (or   house),  ataodest 
on  the  earth  with  foot  liko  a  female  elephant "    (mita  ppiiXiryHk 
tuhfhati  hattinlro  padvail).    Tho  author   of  this   Terse    appears   to 
have   been    accustomed   to   look    familiarly   nt   the   animal   close  at 
].;u;il.     In   the  following  verse  from  the  AiUreya    Brnhmana,  riiL 
23  (quoted  by  Professor  Roth  «.».)  elephants  arc  said  by  him  and 
Professor  H&ug  (tranol.  p.  26)  to  be  understood  by  Sayarja  as  in- 
tended by   tho  word   wri'yu  r    hiranyaytna  parivritun  JtrUSndm  hdU- 
dalo  MpyuM  |  Sltth^irt  Dharato  'Jidtit  talnA  badeSm  oupln   tku  \ 
"  Bbaratfl  bestowed  in  Maslmiirn  one  hundred  and  seven  great  herb 
of  black,  white-toothed  wild  animalB,  decked  with  gold."     In  many 
passages,  i.  138,  2;   viii.  6,  37;    viii.  6,  48:  viii.  40,  22  and  31,  we 
find  the  word  tuhfrtt,  which,  in  later  Sanskrit,  denotes  a  camei :  but 
according  to  Professor  Roth  (see  «.c.)  it  means  in  the  hymns  a  bnJkl* 
or  a  humped  bull.     Professor  Aufrecht  also  informs  me  that  in  hit 
opinion  it  signifies  the  latter.     In  one  of  the  passages  (xiii.  6,  49) 

•»  See  Professor  If  tiller's  trans,  of  R.V.  L  pp.  00  f. 

**>  l«ro*»orB*r.r-T,  Samnreda.  TraoaL  p.  S*.S.  rsaoVn  Hi*  hali  nrw  thma .  "L*» 
dr*p»  from  a  rutting  elephant,  fulls  ia  many  places  h»  saoistaia)  af  Msssiag.** 

»'•  Sav.no  bmV«  rirtnS  <r  AWCfew,  '•  tirm.**  Cosspara  riiL  W,  a,  wUara  < 
scasu  to  be  sa  rpiibrt  of  trOs,  "  ■ 


WAR,  ARMIES,  ARMOUR,  AND  WF.AJ. 


460 


tho  oxen  are  said  to  form  a  team  of  four  yoked  together  {atkfran 
ehatuiyujah),    Various  birds  are  mentioned,  peacocks,  may  urn  [i.  191, 

14;  iii  1>,  1;  viii.1,25):  pigeons, kapotaw(\. 30,4;  x.  165, 1  ff.) falcons, 
iytna,  vultures,  aridhra  (ii.  39,  1),  ducks,  chakranika  (ii.  39,  3],  6fi 
(x.  95,  9),  swans,  kaftw  (i.  163,  10  ;  til  59,  7),  quails,  varttku 
(i.  112,  6).  Serpents  are  of  course  frequently  mentioned,  and  in  one 
place,  ix.  86,  44,  reference  is  made  to  their  casting  their  slough  (Mr 
naj&rndm  alt  tarpaii  tcackam). 

(13)  War,  armies,  armour,  and  wtapmt. 

Wars,  as  we  have  already  seen  (see  shove,  p,  1 09  f- ,  4  ">4),  are  frequently 
mentioned  in  the  Rig-veda.  Some  versos  hnvo  also  been  quoted,  in 
p.  110,  from  It.V.  x.  103,  a  hymn  in  praise  of  Indrn's  prowess,  at  rim 
close  of  which  ho  and  other  deities  are  npplioated  to  confound  the 
enemies  of  his  worshippers,  and  cause  the  anus  of  tin  i:     ii . 

R.V.  vi.  75,  is  another  rcmurkublo  compnsition  of  a  warlike  char. 
in  praise  of  armour,  of  the  bow,  etc.     The  following  arc  ■  lew  ot  tho 
TCnM,  Which  an;  iqiiritcd  :— 

1.  JlmMatytra  bhavaii  pratlkaih  yad  rwrmf  yAti  tanad/lm  upatthe  j 
anaviddhayi  tanvi  jaya  train  ta  ltd  rarmawt  tnnhtiMu  pi  part*  |  2. 
Dkantand  gdh  dhancanH  "jirh  jaytma  dJmnrani  iJcrok  umada  jayema  | 
dhanuh)  iatrvr  apakdmam  kfibotu  dhantani  Mrrdjb  pradiio  jaytma  \ 
3.  Yakthyantlvcd  a  yanlyanti  karnam  priyaSi  takhayam  par**katrttj<imi  \ 
ytaheta  Unlit  titata  'dhi  dhancan  jyi  iyain  toman*  parayantl  |  ....  6. 
Rathe  tUhlhan  nayali  riljinah  puro  yatra  yatra  btmayate  nakarathiA  | 
alhliAnam  mahimanam  patn'iyata  manah  paichad  aim  ynthhanti  raima- 
yah  |  7.  Tlvran  yhothtin  krintata  rpthaptlnayah  airah  rathtbhih  taka 
rojayantah  |  acakriimantah  prapadair  amitrun  Lihimanlt  iatnin  amiparya- 
yantah  \ 

"  1.  There  appears  like  the  lustre  of  n  cloud  when  the  n 
warrior  stalks  into  the  heart  of  tho  combat.  Conquer  with  on  on- 
seethed  body;  let  tho  might  of  ihinn  armour  protect  thoe.  2.  With 
the  bow  may  we  conquer  cattle  ,  with  the  bow  may  we  conquer  in  tho 
struggle  for  tho  mastery ;  with  tho  bow  may  wc  conquer  in  the  sharp 
conflicts;  the  bow  frustrates  the  desire  of  our  enemy;  with  tho  bow 

•*'  Prcifrj«or  Roth  mgRwts  i.r.  thai  kapet*  may  not  slwij*  mesa  a  pigeon,  ss  Chs 
bird  it  rirnolet  it  ■umctiiocs  ooajMCted  with  tho  owl  (ulQka)  and  is  roganfcd  as  un- 
lueky.     In  \.  K4,  1,  it  uosllsd  ths  mttsengwof  Nirriti  m  K.il. 


470 


WAR.  ARMIES,  ARMOtTl.  AND  WEAPONS. 


may  we  conquer  all  the  region*  around.  3.  The  bowstring  approaches 
close  to  the  bowman's  ear,  as  if  to  speak  to  and  embrace  a  dear  Mead; 
strung  upon  the  bow,  it  twangs  like  the  scream  of  a  woman,  and  cams 
the  warrior  safely  through  the  buttle  ....<;.  Standing  on  the  chariot 
the  skilful  ehariotrcr  directs  the  horses  whithersoever  hr  willi ;  land 
the  power  of  the  reins,  which  from  behind  control  the  impulse  [of  the 
horses].  7.  The  strung-hoofed  steed*,  rushing  en  with  the  ->sri^ 
brill  MaghaBga ;  trampling  the  foe  with  their  hoofs,  they  crush 
them,  never  receding." 
The  following  is  a  Gem  metrical  rendering  of  the  preceding  verses: 

1.  "When,  cosed  in  mail,  the  warrior  prond 

Stalks  on  defiant  to  the  front, 

To  bear  the  raging  battle's  brunt, 
We  seem  to  see  a  flaahin,-  ah 
Bold  warrior,  may  thine  armour  bright 
Preserve  thee  scatheless  in  the  fight ! 

2.  May  I  the  fbemaa's  malice  foil 

With  this  my  all-subduing  bow ! 

May  1,  triumphant,  lay  him  low. 
And  all  his  goods  and  cattlo  spoil ! 
This  bow  our  foes  with  ruin  whelms, 
And  conquers  all  surrounding  realms. 

5.  The  bowstring  to  the  bowman's  ear 

Approaches  close,  as  if  to  epeak : 
It*  twang  is  like  a  woman's  shriek : 
It  guards  the  warrior's  tool  from  fear. 

6.  See,  yonder  on  the  chariot  stands 

dauntless  charioteer,  whose  skill 
His  horse*  onward  drires,  whose  will 
Their  movements  U>  and  fro  commands. 
The  reins  (their  wondrous  power  extol !) 
Although  behind,  the  steeds  control. 

7    The  impetuous  coarsen  shrilly  neigh, 
As  forward  to  the  fight  they  rush  : 
Their  trampling  hoofs  onr  fuemen  crush; 
They  never  shun  the  murderous  fray. 


WAB.  ARMIES.  ABMOUR,  AND  WE.U'i 


471 


In  three  hymns  of  tie  8th  ofaQdnlu,  39,  40,  and  41,  each  verse 
(except  the  last  of  hymn  40)  ends  with  the  words  mbhmtam  ani/akt 
tame  |  "  may  all  aliens  or  enemies  perish  ; "  and  ooe  verse,  viii. 
40,  7,  contains  a  prayer  for  victory  otct  hostile  combatant*,  and 
for  their  destruction  (atm&lxbfu'r  nribhir  cat/am  tiitahij&tna  prt'lanyato 
rannyiina  vanuthyatak).  Hymn  x.  133  contains  prayers  to  Indra  for 
victory  und  protection,  and  each  of  the  first  sis  verses  concludes  with 
the  same  terms  tiManldm  anyakethuih  jyihuh  adhi  dfutnuieu  |  "ll.iy 
the  bowstrings  of  our  enemies  bo  snapped  apon  their  bows." 

War  chariots  are  mentioned,  as  we  have  jnst  seen,  in  vi.  75,  C  £ ;  and 
al»o  in  x.  103, 10  (nee  above,  p.  110).  I  ;iro  not  aw«ro  that  any  means 
oxiat  of  ascertaining  the  form  of  their  construction.  They  NWB  to 
hav»  been  drawn  by  two  horses,  and  were  probably  formed  so  us  to  curry 
two  persons,  a  charioteer  and  a  combatant;  at  least,  this  may  be  con- 
jectured both  from  the  nature  of  the  case,  the  practice  of  other  countries, 
and  from  the  fact  of  two  or  more  deities  being  described  as  occupying  the 
same  car,  in  the  cases  of  Indra  nnd  Tayu  (above,  p.  144),  of  Agni  and 
the  other  gods  (p.  202),  and  of  Surya  and  the  Asvins  (p.  200).  The 
diflfanmi  parts  and  appurtenances  of  the  Aivins*  chariot  are  alluded  to 
above  (p.  210  f.,  and  note),  and  had  no  doubt  their  counterparts  in 
those  of  their  worshippers  (see  also  above  the  account  of  Mitra  anil 
Yamoa's  chariot,  in  p.  42).  The  charioteer  was,  no  doubt,  like  the 
llaruU  (p.  151),  furnished  with  a  whip.  Foot  soldiers  ore  men- 
tioned in  A.V.  vii.  62,  1,  where  Agni  is  said  to  conquer  the  most 
powerful  opponents,  as  a  combatant  on  a  chariot  overcomes  men 
fighting  on  foot  [ayam  Agnih  tat  pa!  it  criddha-vruhno  rathita  patlln 
ajayat  pvrohitnh).  Banners  are  alluded  to  a%  borne  in  battle,  U.V. 
x.  103,  11  (see  above,  p.  110),  and  in  vii.  83,  2  (j/alra  narah  tama- 
yante  kfitadhtajah  \  "where  men  bearing  ensigns  meet  in  battle, 
eto").  8enant,  "the  leader  of  an  army,"  is  metaphorically  applied 
to  one  of  the  host  of  dice,  x.  34,  12  [tju  rah  icnunlr  rtahuto  ea*u»yc). 
As  regards  the  size  of  the  armies,  the  Yedio  poets  are  fuuiiliar 
large  numbers,  at  least  as  regards  the  hosts  of  thu  Dasyus,  whether  wo 
are  to  take  these  as  aboriginal  tribes  or  mythological  foes  in  the  clouds. 
lu  i.  53,  9,  60,000 ;  in  iv.  10,  13,  50,000;  and  in  iv.  30,  21,  30,000, 
ore  mentioned  as  destroyed  by  Indra.  The  battle  of  SudiU  with  the 
ten  kings  has  been  already  referred  to  (above,  p.  454).     Defensive 


472 


POETRY  AND  SPECULATION. 


armour  or  mtil  (tarman),  is  mentioned  in  vi.  76,  1,  already  qwoted, 
and  ia  referred  to  in  numerous  oilier  passages,  m  ri.  75,  18  (mantlai 
i$  vartMnH  chh&iayami  |  "  I  protect  thy  vital  parts  with  armour  "\ 
i;  ri.  27,  6.  Yaruna  and  Savitri  arc  each  of  them  mentioned  as 
bung  clad  in  gulden  or  yellow  mail  (as  the  word  dripi  ii  inurpMCtd 
by  Sayana;  Miilkr,  iu  Aucient  .S*u*k.  Lit,  636}  and  Benfev,  in  11  V. 
i.  2j,  13 ;m  while  Roth,  #.«•.,  explains  it,  perhaps  with  more  proba- 
bility, as  meaning  "robe"),  L  25,  13  [bibhrai  impiA  Ajrapyaysl 
Faruyo  tatl*  m'rytjam) ;  iv.  63,  2  (piLmgaUt  iripim  praitmwumwti 
katih).  Vorioua  kinds  of  warlike  weapons  have  already  been  mentioned 
above  in  subsection  (9),  p.  464  f.  See  also  the  accounts  of  the  weapon 
assigned  to  Indra  in  p.  86  £,  and  ii  the  anna  and  armour  of  the 
Maruta  in  p.  149  f.  and  notes. 


(14)  Poetry  *ni  sptadttio*. 

The  elaborate  character  of  the  metres  in  which  the  hymns  are  com- 
posed has  been  adverted  to  by  Professor  Wilson,  io  the  Introduction  to 
the  2nd  voL  of  his  translation  of  the  Rig-reda.  As  regards  the  occa- 
sional beauty  and  variety  of  the  illustrative  imagery  employed,  and  the 
moral  depth  of  many  of  the  reflections,  I  may  refer  to  the  hymns  to 
Ushas  translated  abovo  in  section  xiii.  The  liymu  on  the  variety  of 
human  pursuits,  ix.  112,  that  on  gambling,  x.  34,  and  the  one  on 
beneficence,  x.  1 17  (all  translated  in  the  preceding  section,  pp.  424  nt), 
may  bo  cited  as  instances  of  close  and  scute  observation  of  human  life. 
The  speculations  on  creation  in  x.  129  (above,  p.  356)  and  in  x.  82  and 
83  (p.  354),  indicate  tho  beginnings  of  philosophical  reflection.  As 
an  instance  of  picturesque  expression  I  may  quote  the  epithet  crubAa- 
ktia,  as  applied  to  mountains,  in  v.  4 1 ,  1 1  :  upah  othadliir  uta  no  aranfu 
dyaur  tana  girafo  triX/AaX«jiiiA  |  "  May  the  Waters,  tho  Plunta,  the 
i  lint  Woods,  tho  Mountains  with  their  tresses  of  trees,  preserve  us." 

In  U.  V.  x.  70,  10,  quoted  in  the  1st  voL  of  this  work,  p.  254,  and 
in  A.X.  rii.  12,  quoted  above,  in  p.  438,  allusion  is  made  to  social 
meetings,  which  appear  to  havo  been  of  a  literary  or  learned  character. 

*°  In  R.V.  i.  116,  10,  honiTcr,  Bcafey  rctidcn  it  by  robe,  or  garaasi,  as  ba  data 
alto  ia  3.T.  ii.  M8  =  B.V.  ix.  100,  9  (trans,  of  8.V.  p.  SM).    In  his  gktaary 
Arapi,  bo  translates  it  by  coat  of  mail,  whirr  it  ocean  in  R.V.  ia.  $0.  14. 


CONTLUSIOX. 


473 


(15)  Cbntluuen. 

Although  the  hymns  of  tho  Rig-vcda  exhibit  a  simpler,  a  lew 
odvnncttd,  a  less  definitely  fixed  and  developed,  stage  of  religions  belief 
and  conception*  than  wo  meet  with  in  the  works  of  tho  earliest  Greek 
poets,  and  a  system  of  ideas  widely  diverse  both  from  tho  mythological 
forms,  and  tho  theosophio  opinions,  of  the  later  Indian  pantheon,  and  of 
subsequent  speculation,  and  although  some  of  the  customs  and  practices 
of  that  early  age  were  different  from  those  which  pit-vailed  in  later 
times,  it  would  bo  a  mistake  to  suppose  that,  in  the  (fanner  j  <  1 1  > !.  1 1 . . - 
condition  of  society  Via  of  a  very  primitive  description.  On  tho 
contrary,  the  preceding  inquiry  ha»  brought  into  view  many  signs  of  a 
f .-"iii-M  Jcrable  progress  in  civilization,  and  in  even  a  certain  sort  of  re- 
finement, as  then  existing.  (Compare  the  remarks  of  Profc»or  Wilson, 
in  the  Introduction  to  the  second  volume  of  his  Translation  of  tha  Kig- 
veda,  p.  rvii.) 


474 


appendix. 


Tap  15,  htu  7. 

See  A.Y.  iv.  11,6  (quoted  in  p.  361,  at  tho  foot),  where  the  gods  i 
said  to  have  "ascended  to  heaven,  leaving  their  bodies  behind." 


Pag*  15,  line  11. 

In  the  two  following  passages  the  poets  seem  to  claim  affinity  with 
too  god*. 

viii.  27,  10:  otti  hi  tak  wja'lyam  riiadato  aVr&to  atii  Hpyam  |  I*. 
IkntAto  ki  ima  manart  iamanynco  tiite  idkan  taralayak  \ 

viii.  72,  7  :  adki  nak  Indra  nhoin  Vithne  tajdtyandm  |  tta  Mtrmt* 
Akind  |  8.  Prm  bkritritcaA  tudinavo  adka  <fatd  tamanyd  )  mtSlar 
garbkt  bkarumak*  | 

PcgtXS,  line  II. 

Compare  the  Taitt  Sash.,  Ashf.  6,  p.  18  of  MS.  1702  of  Indis 
Office  Library :  Drrimtrdk  sa&yattilh  inn  \  it  dav&k  mitho  vipriytk 
Stan  |  U  anyonyatmai 'jyaitkfkySya  fUhfhatnAn'ih  panehadki  tyakrSmama 
Agnir  Var*Mtk  Sim*  Jludrair  Jndro  Meruilhir  Varunah  AJit^sir 
JlrHatpatir  ViimirtUwik  \  U  amanyanta  "aturebkya  mi"  idam  hkritfi- 
pytbky*  radhyAm*  yam  mitho  tipriySk  tnak  |  yak  nak  imuk  priyit 
tanurat  iak  tamaradyfsma  ha  tl&bkyak  ta  nirrickk&d  yak  nek  pralkama 
' nyonytuwxai  drukyCd  "  Hi  \  taundd  yak  MalanSnaptrlnnn  pratkmm 
iti  hi  nrttim  urchhati  \  yat  tAnHnaplram  i\mma£yati  bhrutrit yu- 
bhibkilyai  bkataty  atnand  para  'tya  bhrtitriryo  bhacati  ityd 

*'  Tho  gods  and  Asoras  contended  together.  The  gods  were  hostile 
to  one  another.  Striving  with  one  another  for  the  superiority,  they 
parted  into  five  divisions,  Agni  with  the  Vasns,  Soma  with  the  Budras, 


APPENDIX. 


416 


a  with  tho  Maruts,  Varuna  with  the  A.lity.»"».  and  Urihaspati  with 
Uio  Viavcdevaa.  They  then  reflected :  '  W%  ure  subject  to  our  enemies, 
the  Asuras,  because  wc  are  hostile  to  one  another.  Let  us  unite  our 
dear  bodies;  and  whoever  shall  fir«t  show  enmity  to  anc-thcr,  lot  him 
be  separated  from  hi*  body.'  Hence,  any  one  among  persona  who  have 
bound  themselves  together  by  nn  oath,  who  first  commits  nn  injury 
falls  into  calamity.  When  a  man  |obn  ll  tho  oath  Unanaptra  for 
the  purpose  of  overcoming  his  enemies,  he  conquers,  and  his  adversary 
u  overcome." 

The  same  story  is  told  in  other  words  in  the  Aitureyn  Brihro.nnt, 
and  I  quote  the  words  to  show  how  these  narratives  are  varied  in  thu 
flffl  mit  Brihmanas: 

Ait.  Br.  1,  2-1  :  Te  i?wlA  ahibhayur  "  (umiilam  ripremluim  anu 
iifiim  (iKurGh  Ctbharithyanti"  iti  \  U  ryutkramya  amaHirayanta  |  Agnih 
Vatubhir  ttdakrumad  litdro  Itwirair  Varuuah  Adilyair  Urihatpatir 
Viivair  derail*  \  te  tathH  vyulkramya  amantrayanta  \  te  'bmvan  "  Lint  a 
&h  eta  nah  imah  priyatam&i  lan<«4  MA  aiya  Vamnaeya  rdjna  yriA* 
HHtnidadhfimalitii  \  tubhir  eta  nab  »a  na  tanaaekhitai  yo  nah  dad  atdrd- 
m&d  yah  Huh  bhavhhad"  iti  |  "lathi*'  iti  |  Te  Var**«4ya  rijno 
frihe  ttnah  tannyadadhata  \  U  yad  Farvno4ya  r&jno gfiht  UmuK  tannya- 
dadhata tat  tanunaptram  abhatat  \  tat  tunAnaplratya  Idninsptratram  \ 
tatmOd  ahur  "  na  latdninaplrtne  drogdJiaryam  "  iti  |  taimdd  m  Aturah 
na  tmtibhavanti  | 

I  quote  I'rofessor  llaug's  translation  of  this  passage  :  "  The  Dcvas 
were  afraid,  surmising  the  Asuras  might  become  aware  of  their  being 
disunited,  and  seize  their  reign.  They  marched  oat  in  several  divisions 
and  deliberated.  Agni  marched  out  with  the  Vusus  and  deliberated. 
Indra  did  so  with  the  Itudras;  Varuna  with  the  Adityas ;  and  Bribas- 
pati  with  the  Visve  Detas.  Thns  all,  having  severally  marched  out, 
deliberated.  They  suid,  '  Well,  tot  us  put  these  our  dearest  bodies  in 
the  house  of  Varuna  tho  king  {i.e.  water);  he  among  us  who  should, 
out  of  greediness,  transgress  thi?  (oath,  not  to  do  anythiug 
might  injure  the  sacrifice),  he  ahull  no  more  be  joined  with  them. 
They  put  their  bodies  in  the  house  of  Vuruija.  This  putting  of  tin  ir 
bodies  in  tho  house  of  Varuna  the  king,  became  their  Toninaptran 
(joining  of  bodies).  Thonco  thoy  say  :  none  of  those  joined  together 
by  the  TanQnaptram  ceremony  is  to  be  injured.     Thence  the  Asuras 


tin 


JJVKShtX. 


Sr-r  fal  <jt    T->tirr: 
R.V.  ix.  78.  4, 


could  not  conquer  their  (the  gods')  empire  (lor  they  had  ail  bean  mads 
inviolable  by  this  ceremony)." 

J>*y#  Oo,  Urn,  13. 

Set  a  mast  mean  "  bonds,"  not  "  barriers.1 
following  in  the  text,  tuc.,  tiL  84.  2 ;  aad 
a.  67,  4 ;  and  the  word  mtr*,  rendered 
Wilson's  Sanskrit  Dictionary. 

Psgt  103,  /w  10. 
Compare  B-V.  i.  61,  2;   i.  157,  6;  TiiL  1,  31 ;  tuL  2,  37;  x.  Iff. 
1,  where  faith  or  heart-felt  worship  to  Indra  or  the  Asrina  it  ex- 
pressed, or  enjoined. 

A*js  Ha\  Ja»  1L 
So  ia  BY.  riii.  69,  7,  it  is  said  :  m  ,,m  Un*k  iptd  ufant  sflryUss 
wtmrtyak  |  "o  long-bred  god,  the  gudlcss  aaaa  obtain*  oo  food." 

r*yi  108,  tte*  8. 
Indra  b  himself  declared  to  be  a  priest  end  a  rami,  Tifi.  16,  7  (/aeto 
•robed  Tmink  paWA). 

P*/#119,  lit  19. 
See  ilao  Professor  Max  Mailer's  Lectara  on  the  Scseac*  of  Lsa- 
127. 

Ptft  178,  km  6. 
KmnmiKdi.  See  Weber's  Indische  Stodicn,  u.  306,  sad  the  Tait- 
tirlya  Saabita,  iL  6,  8,  4  f.  .-  Tat  Pitkm*  paryaJmron  |  tat  PitU 
praJma  data  'ruaat  \  (stmSt  PmU  mramiUfa  aaf swl  |  asfaafsis  is  | 
■  laey  gave  it  to  Puihan ;  and  he,  ia  eating  it,  poshed  eat  his  teeth. 
Hence,  Pflaaaa  ha  ground  meal  far  his  share  ia  the  oblation ;  far  he 
is  toothless."  See  the  later  story  about  bow  Pushes  lost  his  teeth,  ia 
the  4th  rol.  of  this  work,  p.  188,  33X 

Pafa  217,   Urn  10  fnm  /fa  Jaab 

I  hare  to  thaak  Profcusar  M tiller  far  seadiag  aw  a  espy  of  Sejasjrn 
aote  on  the  versa,  R.7.  x  16,  4.     It  is  as  follows  :— 

Aj*lj*»mm++*J*Uk  farlrsaaVisrtaV  tsrtsa  iftvittmj  amtan 
fafajfaas  *e  Ma««  fa  Agaa  U  teas*I  sws*  fajssaa  faaaane*  fa 
aasaae.  faassM  faswaaa  lara  |  TatU  fa  fare  ax**  faasjfafer  fo*aV 
runts*  fass  aVaaasa  feasts  ssaarsrifa  |  faasj-farasr-arrsij  faleiasm 


p— m—* 

^aeasaV 

UinUm 


APPENDIX 


477 


eanlSnSya  UratamytM  hhtdak  |  He  foitiredah  te  tata  y/ii  tamo  taarfa- 
yak  tirtk  tvkha-ketatak  tanu-tapa-praddh  t&bhir  era  tanibhik  prelum 
ntkj-iUSt  iobkan^-karma-blrinCiSt  lokam  tthiinam  taka  prtipaya  | 

Of  this  I  will  translate  only  so  much  as  refers  to  the  important 
phnso  aj»  bh&gak  \  "  '.\ja'  is  tho  portion  characterized  as  the  inner 
man,  devoid  of  birlb,  and  of  bodily  senses  and  other  parts." 

■  ssor  Aufrecht  has  favoured  me  with  a  statement  of  some  further 
grounds  in  support  of  his  opinion  as  quoted  in  my  note  to  p.  217.  Ho 
urges  (1)  that  the  goat  is  tacrincrd  to  Agni  (dgneyam  ajam,  Satap.  llr. 
ft  2,  1.5,  and  Tfludya  Br.  i.  8,  4.  agnaye  >«);  (2)  that  it  would  W> 
absurd  to  oak  Agni  to  burn  or  worm  the  unborn  part,  that  is,  to  do  « 
material  act  to  a  thing  beyond  the  reach  of  material  bfllUBM ;  (3)  that 
iu  the  Kig-vedu  bhuga  is  never  used  for  purt  (pari),  but  only  for  shorn 
(fori);  (1)  that  Up  means  only  to  burn,  to  consume  by  heat,  not  to 
warm  ;  (5)  that  tiltam  titmd  gackhntu  |  "let  tho  soul  go  to  the  wind," 
bad  preceded  in  verso  3 ;  so  that  there  was  no  further  occasion  to  refer 
to  the  man's  immaterial  part. 

In  regard  to  what  is  urged  hy  Professor  Aufrecht  tinder  his  fifth 
brad,  I  refer  to  what  I  have  said  on  the  Benee  of  Alma*  in  p.  313. 

Pagi  220,  line  3  ;  and  267,  line  16. 

On  the  sense  of  rp'rVa  nnd  tfitrtthan  sec  Professor  Spiegel's  remarks 
in  Kuhn's  Bcitriigc  zur  Vcrgloichendon  Sprachforschuug,  vi.  3B8  f. 

Page  228,  line  12  from  the  bottom. 
la  reference  to  this  myth  Professor  Aufreeht  refers  me  to  Dr.  Kuhn's 
JWtachrilt.  i.  112,  and  to  Professor  Kola's  explanation  of  it,  ibid.  p.  444. 

Pagt  261,  line  14. 

Compare  Aitareya  Bnihmaua,  if.  7  fT,  referred  to  above,  p.  Ml, 
note  372.     The  story  begins  as  follows : — 

Praj6patir  tni  Somdya  rdjne  inhitmram  prdyackhal  Sirydm  8M 
/rlst  |  taiyei  earve  dcviik  rar&h  agnthkan  |  "Prajnpnti  gavo  his  daughter 
Surya  Sdvitrl  in  marriage  to  king  Soma.  All  the  gods  came  as  tho 
bridegroom's  friends." 

Page  269,  line  14. 

In  ix.  92,  '>,  it  is  said  that  Soma  protected  the  (Aryan)  man  and 
repelled  the  Dasyu  {Svmak  priivad  manian  daeyare  kar  abhlUun). 


478  APPKSD1X 

.Faa*  288,  Jaar  4. 

The  Taitt.  San.  tL  1,  4,  3,  has  the  foflowiBg  »aorr  ascot  Ton:— 
Aw"  dm  rmi  Tnmu  c&a  (■»  mmt  'avdod  m  Tmm*  dtrmmim 
JmtVfmM  rirymm  afwrata  |  tad  Tmmmif  4.  Ymmmlram  '  U  derci 
mmmmfamlm  "  Tarn*  rmi  imam  mUwd  mmi  rrnmrnm  aaaA"  aV  '  U  Prmjm- 
pmtim  mpmmrnnrmm  '  M  mtrnm  Prmjaptrtir  mtmmmmk  alaai  tmimm  mmmmumlU ' 
t*  itnk   Tit immmmmmrwmim  kmb  iluiAamtu     limdr  mm 

mmjm  immrifmm  mwrimmU  \ 

"Tie  gods  aad  Yaasa  eoBtaUkflifVdi  Tan  tMkmj 
the  Tigoar  aad  eaergT  <af  the  gods.  This  is  his  ihaiailnialk  The 
gods  reflected, '  Tana*  has  nrrtaae  the  aaaae  as  are  are.'  They  riaiti  ■  I 
to  ftaBtoati,  vho  fa— d  from  himself  this  ball  aad  thia  eaar.  The 
gods  aaorifeed  the  eoar  to  Tidaa  aad  Taiaaa,  aad  the  hafi  to 
ImdiVefc- 

Pmmt  3+5?  liar  7. 

la  K.T.  x.  30,   10,  the  Waters  are  called  the     nllin  aad  the 
I  af  the  arotU  jrumtjmMmtrir  i 


iW  «1-  *■»  *- 
Ix  B-V.  x.  190.  rlr«    cc  tie  eecHBazsal'.  sad  trztfc.   ^t**    ft* 

ttorax.  <w_  ire  sil  »  iat-r*  scxBp  L".m  tens :  R ti*»  r&s  «j «*«  ri* 
•*&*&>&  rcja&j*  "its  c.-iitzc    r*it  risr.  miijmim  tajai  m  waft  ■  arsorci 
3.  ^cwivii  e^r^ti  ami  MMcatf  awlpafla;  |  iMiD  ■■"  rmimdim: 
wmmmmt    mmmia.U    tt£      i.    jia/ja^caaaaV* aw ars   Lmiii  ycitytfws 

■*  Rifi:  *ai£  rrrri  sccsix  fr.Tn  f-i  mi  tanas :  aad  linee  5j«e»  »e 
aans  aai  tax  ^  ul  a-mo.  i.  Fran;  :he  3;xii  «esi  sanaa:  ^t  rear  ; 
aad  ii  c*  j.-c£  ;r"  iZ  tiriars  tit:  see.  anai  a»»  srr  sal  sgfa  Daiin 
,jc  ti*  rtscoKr  xaiiu  a*  sex  ti»£  mxa  t»  ~2v£ir?  i  sad.  :ie  sir.  £* 
*ucti.  tie  t^r,  joii  u*  ienT-a,  ~ 


479 


INDEX. 


Arbi\\< 
AchniU,  348 
Aditi,  13,  35  ff.,  156.  tfi.5, 
'.'21,  228,3-v,.  360.  860 
a,  11,  38  f.,  48  tf., 

oi  ii..  rn 

Awchylut,  qnotai  20.  44, 
r.;;  3.54 

Ajr»>tio,  153 

Agbu,  110 

Agiulvi,  82,  337.  844 

Anf,a  13  f.,  35,  SI.  68, 
65.  199  ff.,  209,28  Iff., 
297  ff-,  408.  ct  paarira 

Apni  DuTwdiM,  219 

Ami  (iirhapatyo,  S00 

Agnihittra,  315 

Ajpii  SiTitra,  299,  402 

/.•Mi  i,..-,r  ■  Mfl 

ALi,  93.  05,  97 

Alnrl.iiilhnjn,  889 

Ahura,  mazda,  70,  72,  120 

Ailwrja  Araojraka— 
p.   73    —  24 
_84    _36J 
L  1  ,2,3-49 

AJtarcya  Br.iht.iaoa — 
i.     14-268 

—  IS—  208 

—  24-475 
ii     17-322 

—  IB—  11 

—  2-1—144 
20—  93 

—  30— 227 

—  44- 

i».    1—  8* 

—  7-0—241,477 

—  27—  23 
ri.  11-  8i 

riii.  23— 498 


Aja  Ekapfld,  339,  399 
tint,  li 

AjS  IMfirlllllullUUI  offlTillg, 

304,  806 
Aj„l,l,up.H,    217,    297 1., 

176  t, 
AtnliilU,  I 

AiMa.  in,  .'.4  ff..  419 
Ariiiliu'pnm).  70,  120 
llWIMWMi  28 
.\i..!.-.i,  121 
Anpinw.    200,   209,    274, 

'277.396,400 
AujfinwM.    28.   ft,    l-_>c. 

I...H1 

Amiamti,  398 
AnnjTiijii,  11 
Apimnnpit.  384 
Apa.  (the  Waters),  343 
Aplanxlito,  3,  24 
Apuavfina,  213 
Apwrwt*,   41,  808,   345, 

409,  430 
Apva.  1 1  (« 

Anuuta 

Anmvafll,  319,  422  f. 

ArbuiU,  97 

Area.  3.  260 

Aristotle-*   Politic*,   i,  2, 

7.  quoted  6 
Arjlkiyi,  314 
Aryiman,   13,  47.  54  ff., 

58,  60,  62,  68,  125,  198 
Anraa,  1 13  f.,  220 
.  344 
i.  297 
Aninu.ls.  4  1.6.5,83,07, 

1"1,  147,  201,  240, 2CH, 

401. 
A»'»aln»-.Viia>;Orihjra»ritfli, 

quo)  d,  i  ir.401 
A.'tilariaarf  Srauto-ail- 

tru,  qootcd  231 


AjVina,   93  f.,    113,  125, 

143.  164,  191,  234  IT. 
Ax  ring  libation,  253 
Khiat, 

Atharraa,  209.  895,  409 
Adiarraiw,  293,  311 
Atharra-veda— 

7,  2—210 
I        3-    10 

33,  1-205 

5.      3—  49 

30,      2—243 
ilL 

8,  3—  74 

io,   12-  :•• 

21,  4—403 
25,  I  K— 407 
2i,      3-300 

—  7—408 
30.  1  If.  —439 

ir. 

10,  5—180 

11.  Iff.— 390 

—  7-361 
15,  12-  74 
19,       —  63 

2-305 
23,  9—  14 
27.      3-150 

34.  Iff.-307 

37.  tit— 800 

38.  I  ff— 431 

39.  2—208 

21.     4—74 

—  9-158, 298 
3—243 

311.         —4 10 

—  9-284 

—  11—312 


so, 

6,  4-988 

B,  7-301 

63  —407 

64  —408 

ec    I-**,  68 

=»,07 
Atm-in.  W8 
Atmtvijin.  318 
Atn«»pun!'in.  217 
Atr»flkluu  Arnni,  Sift 
Aum»,  I1*! 

autt*.  au 

Aj*it»,274 


jviii. 

i,  i3f.— »o 
2.20ff.-2!>3 
—24  £,  97— 8M 

—  28—298 

—  32—  302 

—  3ft— 298 

—  48— 3*4 

—  49-996 

—  43—174 


Bteckw,  8M 

lUhithpartoianft,  263 
Bhajwrmdglu,  334 
Bbjn,   13,    64  U-,    US. 

170,  190,  410 
Bh&gtrata    Purina,   »UL 

ie,  i 
Rhmtrqi*,  402 

Bhiraa.  2l».  359 

Bharjr... 

Bhrsu,  309.  313.  an 
Bhrim  10,  1 

893.  311 
Bhnjyn.  244,  248 

Impati,  4ixl   Bhntau, 
231 

UhlJTMA,  372 

Bnhmft.  825  {.,  856,  JTC 

378  tt.,  401 
Brahmi,     10.     IAI.    3*1. 

3*6.  389. 
Brtamackarin.  969  IT. 
Bnhmaletc*.  821 
Bnaaiaganab.     18,    IS. 

224  U  272  *,  M*.  3* 
Br.ihi.mi,-,  _'v  , 


IXDEX. 

481 

-mn-aOtnia,  16 

E. 

ninijTahaaU.  247 

Urilmdiranyaku      Upani* 

Bow  ipotadt  167 

•had,  12,  316,  319,  323 

Earth,   7,  11,   13,   21  IT., 

i;ric    hyiuna   quoted. 

Bribaipati,   23,  93,   193, 

40,  78, 102.     Sco  Prt- 

M,  16* 

212  ff.,  299 

Ilotnl,  339 

Ejryptiun  MamnRrmy,  28 
.  79  f. 

I. 

F.li-phants,  46?  f. 

0. 

Eros,  406 

Ignis,  199 

mo 

EunpidM  quol«d,  26,  28, 

i"i,  269,  298 

ludra,  8.   13.   17,   30  t. 

Cfca«.24 

77  ff.  192.220,260 

CbitanniUya.  316 

Imlr.iul.  82,  337 

ChaturrifUatirittn,  1' 

F. 

liaiah,  19,  1— 08 

CbbAadoKTa     Upunwhad, 

323 ;  Tt  2,  1—369. 
Chitra,  464 

Fflthwa(Pitria)207,28fl(r., 

398 

J. 

ChitragvpU,  302 

Chyarfina,  243 

Jemahid,  1 

Chynrilna,  260 

o 

Jm3,  34 

Cyclop**,  24 

JuhO,  398,  411 

.im.ni.-.  ns 

OAin,  76 
«;unilliarra,  289  f. 

Jupitor  PluriuK,  77 

n 

Uandharraa,   13.  44,  262 

«■«•• 

IT..  290,  308  f.  398.400 

E. 

Gaogfi,  339,  344 

Dadhynnoh,  200 
Daluha,    13.  48.   CO  IT., 

Oangw,  77,  338 

KnkaUfM,  246 

391.  407  ff.,  411 

80.336,360.369.419 

dhiwhi,  24 1,  468 

Kfili.  243 

Dikshajranl,  SO 

Grinrivr,  25 
Gmi.  34 

Kali  (one  of  the  die*},  430 

DinaTaa,  96 

Kalpat,  825 

Main.  M 

D-nu.  95 

Go,  34 

Goctho  qiwtcd,  208 

Kirna,  317,  382,  102  ff, 
411 

Pamu,  96 

DlKl,   114 

Daara.240 

Gomotf,  344 
CkiUnia*.  186 

0«BM   (tin:    thrtt),   309, 

avv 

Kiunadyd.  211 
Kaulik,  364 
Knpardia,  462 

Duyus,  ino,  113  f.,  220 
Dawn,  181  ff. 

377 
Qoagfli  Mfl 

Kapila,364 

Kaa-yapa,  32  f,  80,  373, 

Dnneter.  26  r,  MO 

Dcahtn.  395 

H. 

Kutha    TJpanishad,   308, 

DcTfipi,  280 

330 

D«rayijin,  318 

Kithaka  quote!— 
3,15—82 

Dhitfi,  31,  64, 169,  160 

nahaklrek,  3,  8—08 

Dhiahagi,  339 

IUiIi*.  306 

12,    6—392 

Dhiura.  398 

11  .m.wWi,  8803—438 

12.  10-232 

Diodoroa  Biculua  quoted, 

Ilmteu,  7,  11.13.  21  ff., 

KamhiUU       UpuiiUd, 

H 

102.    Soo  Dyaiu. 

308,371 

DtomniL  268  f. 

H«li«a,  146 

Kflrya  Urfana*,  86,  201, 
210 

DM,18,  42,  147 

II.  II,  312 

Dimdaa,  97,   219,   341, 

II   pl.nutos.S6,  199,224 

Ka»yaa,292 

431 

FIctt,  24.  260 

Knbm,  24 

Durk-J.  214,  230 

Hcrnira,  173 

Krumu,  344 

Durr«««»,  324 

Hcrcdotua    quoted,    111, 

Kshattriyaa,  262,  3S9 

Djm«,7,U,21«;39,76, 
100,    118  ff..  142,  166, 

209,  432 
Hesiod  quoted.  24. 76. 406 

KabrttMyapati,  465 
Kubbfi.  344 

206,  212,  267,  357 
DyausbpiUr,  33,  UBt. 

Hiraoyarmrhha,   I.  Jl  f., 

Rnrmbbaara.  262 

364,383,390,411 

Koya*a,M 

SI 

482 


WDBI 


I  tabs*.  MS 

I,,,..    .  :m 

.  itikaa,  3*4 
Lucrctiiu  IJBPtOdj  2S  f. 


M. 

Mmil.M 

»,  310 

MotfhttVtn.  9U,  102 
MiUiulihirutu— 


i. 

iii. 

171.  14010,  1640S— 11 

u. 

3019-443 

xiL 

341     — 378 

lis*  _  14 
3667,  31167    —406 

6811    -348 

6618r7.— 347 
7697,7630    —408 

8610  ff— 336 
8106,  Slifl  tt.     1 

8139  ff„  9877  tl  407 

|(JOM  J 

044901—347 

9616    —378 

10836    —361 

liii. 

61  If.— 400 
7103    —  11 

riT. 

987 1.— 377 
1444    —  16 
Makfctm,  372 
MaVT,  339 

I  JM«u*h*d  noted, 
393,410 


Manet,  311 

Mwiu,  i.  8  IT.  referred  to, 

bmLim 

L  94— 610 

Miiuti,    Mnim-li,    in,    7' i. 
US,  L61, 206. 160,881, 

Muuufl,  1S1 
ManvaiiU-iru,  161 
Manyn,  187,  361,  406 

M.ir.  ..ii.Ii  i.i  imriija,  233 

r.i 

n.llii,  344 

Marat*,  10,  12,  79,  92  C, 

110.  147  ff.,  215,  285 

.  202 

van,  204  f.,  213, 
380,  395 
MaUyapuhina,  KCt.  1 16 — 

M  nit  hew.    St,    quotal— 
24.30;  20.64—96 
.344 

M  "1.324 

.  70ff.,l20 

Mitra,    13,    37.   39,   47, 
61  f..  34  f,  56  tt 
126.  166  f.,  et  paasra 

M.T: '.:,■>.  71 

MitroUt*.,  71 

Mm*,  270,  391 

MttdpUa.  321 

MrijaTtat.  "iti.  <:g 

NuD-laka  Upaalanad,  389 

lUakoAniAa 


K. 

K««g»Mr«»».  9 

.VaircVtaa,  17.  143 

Nataucbi,  93  ff,  249 

Kaadaaa,  334 

Saojftwilbi,  131 

El  nafJU  i  phi  ajN 

artama.240 

Kfiaatraa,  10 

Narafcrai,  293,  311 

NiRluntit,  193  I 
188 
i.  82 

Kinitk,  19 

Nlrukto— 

ii.    8-374 
tL    0-460 


Niniku  eoHiimmd- 
liL     1 —    0 

—  6-9,143,360 

—  9—171 

—  37ff— 907 
il.  28—338 

X.  86—372 

si.  23—  60 

1—884 

— 10r".— -T27 

—  10—207 

—  34—  80 

—  41—  17 
KirrCsa,  826 
Nivhii,  IS 

t1.  18, 70 
Norttna,  186 
Nonculitjr,  866 


O. 

Oeni,  199 

Carman*,  25.  33.  76  f. 
Ovid  quota!,  64),  157 


P. 

Pank,S20 
Pa™m*.Mhitt,  381,  391, 

395,  401,  4*6 
iv.,-,^:,,.,  Mfqpftja, 

PartTTJj,  246 

Parjaor-,  23.    36  t%  96, 

140  tt,  174,  80S,  808, 

436 
ranufarjl.  344 
Paiuhaodha.  316 
Peda.247 
Pcrkmaaa,  142 


PtfltB,  N 


ttchat.  448 

Pitria.  44  (m  FalVnV 
Ptakaha  DaraintUti,  41* 
Plato    quoted,    166, 

406 
Plulardj  reftmd  to,  7] 
— — -     qiicittcl,  167 
FotalMaaa,  90 
PoarSoa.31 
Pradhiaa,  364 
PrajSpati,  11,  16,  68, 

1*4.233,804,810,342, 

37S.a;6.S81.3S7.M 

ff,  401,  403,  460 


mm. 

483 

PrfiflO,  393  ff. 
PrtMha,  91 

Rig-T.Mi  conliHUfd — 

Rijf-twLi  cmlinurj— 

34, 

10—104,  239 

34.        10— IM 

PriVni,  .59.  147 

u—   e 

85,        7—  96 

PrithJTt,  7,  11,21  IT.,  119 

35, 

1—  62 

—         8—141,464 

Pi»lm»  quotod,  85 

— 

3ff.-162f. 

—         9—86 

Puri9*,388 

39, 

4—216 

87,        8-150 

ritrumitn,  244 

18—280 

88,      1  f.— 161 

PurOnm,  188.  411 

— 

19—209 

89,        0—172 

l'nrusba,  31,  60,  80,  143, 

38, 

6—803 

-        10—43,154 

8143.  3«7  ff. 

0—150 

91,  1,  18—284 

PQih»n,  31,  81,  84,   IC8, 



11—881 

-2,6,8,21-269 

171  ff.,  247,069,402 

39, 

6—160 

—        22—307 

«o. 

6f.— 279 

92,            —188 

42, 

-174 

93,     Iff.— 269  f. 

43, 

3—  36 

04,         7—211 

B. 

**, 

6—288 

—     I0f.-2I3 

10—4  1] 

H5,         2—109 

IUianTO,  371 

h.-.Wmo 

— 

12—212 

—          3—208 

46. 

3—  10 

100,         1-  89 

Ktiikibflmii,  44 

40, 

8—241 

101,        8—125 

lUk.l.wc,  101,204,270, 

48, 

—181 

—         6—199 

29V 

.M>. 

—160 

102,         2—10.1 

Kmu.  344 

3—407 

—           8—81 

Bebha.240 

— 

12—  64 

103,          2-  96 

RiMiw,  86, 166,  226,  281 

61. 

4.0—  ''7 

—         8—113 

Uig-ud*  quotod— 

8—113 

—         5—103 

63, 

7—  91 

164,     CL— 103 

M«ndnki. 

8—  '-'7 

106,          2—457 

65, 

1—  86 

—      7,8—467,407 

i.      a—216 

3—  92 

—        17—281 

—         4-200 

_ 

8—103 

106,        6—103 

8,       10-438 

n, 

4f.-2ll 

109,        2—4*0 

—         12—339 

6—300 

4—  00 

20,          6-220 

59, 

1,5— 214  f. 

110,      2f.-164 

33,          1—238 

2—200 

111.          1—86,226 

—           9—219 

__ 

6—23* 

111'.     6.6-246 

—        11—337 

61, 

6—  86 

—         15—243 

—        19—94 

O _i.il  C 

—        19—244 

23,       13—174 

— 

14—  90 

113,          —187 

—        22-343 

62, 

11—106,467 

—        18—193 

24.      1  f.—  45 

63, 

2—  92 

114,          1—461 

—6,  8, 10—  62 

64, 

7—160, 468 

lift.         1—167 

—         8—166 

— 

8,  11—151 

1 1<I,  1.3  If.,  23-241 

—   9,11—  66 

'•■'•, 

4—212 

—           7—246 

—        16—  46 

66, 

8—212 

—         8—247 

25,  1,  12—  66 

67, 

8—214 

—        10—243 

—7,9,11—  63 

68, 

2—210 

—        16-245 

—10,13.18—69,472 

6—214 

—        17—236 

27,      71—310 

00, 

1—206 

—        24—246 

13—  12 

70, 

1,  8—215 

117,3,6,7,9,20,24—247 

30,       16—  86 

71, 

1—457 

—           4—246 

SI,          1—200 

7-'. 

0—  40 

—           9—240 

—         7—217. 

7S, 

4—220 

—         13—236. 213 

—        10-210 

80, 

14—  96 

— 14t,17f-246 

32,2— 86,  96  r„  524 

16—  M 

—         20—244 

—    6, 13—  96 

82, 

6,  6—81, 86 

—        21—113 

—          9—96 

84, 

1—  86 

118,         4-241 

—        14—  93 

4—365 

—           5-236 

^ ^~ ^~ 

4S4 

UTOBX. 

Kif-vafe  tmlimud— 

Ri£-Tnk  «a*f  mum*— 

Bjr-rnto  amttnmi 

US,         C— Ml 

171,          4—164 

19,          3—  M 

—         9—247 

173,          0—  9S 

—          4—107 

119,        6-2*6 

176,         6—  09 

N          8—  93 

—      «  f  — 240 

170,         1—  91 

22,        3-497 

l-'i, 

179,         0—236 

ny       -274 

122,          9—  U 

18*.         1—  240 1 

—         IT     ;;-. 

128,          2— Ml 

181,          2—241 

i4.  i  ir..  a— m 

—         3—169 

—           3—240 

20,         8—339 

—         6-190 

—          4—2*6 

1—64 

124,          1—165 

3—249 

—    3f—  Mr. 

_         7  -4*7  I- 

—      5  (J.  -246 

—        !•—  60 

125.      6  f.— 2S6 

183.          2—192 

—        14— 4ft.es 

128,          1— 4*4 

IM.          2—243 

—          16—  67 

-           7-467 

186,         1—  32 

SB.     4,8—03 

139,        7-  97 

—          3—80 

—          6—06 

—         8—113 

18ft,         7—100,468 

—          0—03 

131,         I— 31.92 

188,         9—226 

20.           1—40B 

—           4—112 

190,      1  f.-279 

31.          6—101 

133,          0—147 

181,         6—407 

32,  4,  0  1—348 

134,         3     HI 

191,         »—  64 

33,         9—464 

-          4-14* 

—        10—404 

84,      St— 160 

135,  1,3,4— 143  f. 

36,         8—361 

136,          3—  30 

38.         1-108 

1—130 

IUq4iL>  i«. 

—  2,7,9.11— 163  C 

139,        11—  19 

—          9—136 

Ml,         0— 126, 21* 

1,    3  ff.-2l9,382 

39,     Iff. 

10—824 

-      13  f.— 202 

40,     IS. -31, 189 

US,       12— 14* 

2,          7—283 

41,          6—  00 

1 13,          ft— 11* 

4,          3—206 

—         10 

149,         3—213 

8.          3-216 

—        17—342 

—         4—461 

9,         1-216 

in,       9-  OS 

II.         7-84 

1*4,         6—  28* 

—       9t—  96 

MMfeUiU. 

1.VB,         4—123 

—        11—  89 

1J7,   1—166,  109,339 

—        14-  91 

2.       11—311 

—           4 

—        15—113 

8,      3t— 200 

-          6—243 

—        19—114 

—        10-  -1* 

1«,      If.- 21 

a,    ir— 124 

—      11— so* 

—         6—163 

—           3—M5 

4,         9—22* 

160,    2ff.— 22, 10 

—         6—104 

6.        10—214 

161,     Iff.— 320 

—    0,  14—107 

0,          6—214 

—        10—463 

—         7—168. 192 

—      6.  9—10.  212 

-        14-  72 

—      8f.— 109 

8,         6—194 

162,       23—  46 

—        10—112 

9,         9—12,211 

16  J,       13—2*8 

—     11  f—  07 

12,     4, 6- 

164,         0—367 

14,         1—  89 

11.         4—^16 

-         43—403 

—            4—  5IK 

20,         4— ?18 

—        40—210 

—          0—97 

21,          1—210 

-        49-342 

16,         1—  03 

—         3— tOO 

—        60-  17 

—          2—88,116 

23,         4—388 

166,     Off—   16 

—           3—  BO 

26,          1—20* 

—           3—03 

—         ft— 192 

—           0—106 

—           9—99 

18.          2—  83 

26.          3-383 

166,       12—  36 

—          3-86 

-          7-210 

167,         3—400 

17.         6—99 

87,     2,7—200 

—                iflO 

IS.         3—86,108 

29,     Iff.— 209 

170,     3ff.-l64 

2—  94 

30,         6-30,99 

INDEX 

<8I 

Big-T«d»  amJinttJ 

llie-rcda  mntinittd— 

Ktg-TMl*  etri'.inual— 

31,        15—168 

6.        13—191 

29,        16—462 

32,          4—92 

6,         2—211 

80,         6—92.  Kin 

—          8—168 

8,    2,4—202.21.5 

31,         2—107 

—      0  f.—  80 

12,         4—46,218 

—           4— SJ  f. 

—     18  f.—  01  f 

13,         2- 

—         10—  91 

33.         6—166 

14,         2—169 

82,           1—  96 

34.          t—  VI 

16,       14—468 

34,          2—  86 

—        a-  00 

17.         2— 31.10(1 

—           4—111 

—          8-30 

-  4,17-78. 

—  16—107 

86,         1—  89 

—           0—113 

87,     1,4—107 

36,          i—  86 

18, 1,6, 10  ff.— 78 

41.       11-472 

—           6—80 

—         8—229 

is,       o—ioo 

—          7—  88 

—          4—100 

43,       11-340 

—          0—08 

—        12—  10 

—        12—280 

86,     7  r—  80 

21,          0—108 

40,         3—  41 

88,         4—  84 

26,          2—114 

48,    18  f— 172 

43.          7—282 

—           6—262 

62,        16—464 

44,          2—168, 192 

29,      1  f.— 267 

63,          4—160 

46,      1.4—86,107 

30,          1—124 

64,      1,  3—160 

46,     21—08 

—      8.6—18 

-        11—149 

47,        1—  80 

—     8».— 1!>2 

66,         I-  i.i 

—           J—  02 

—  14,20-97,461 

—          4-286 

48,      2f.—  77 

82,        16—  90 

—          8—160 

—          4—84, 229 

—     17  ff.— 100 

67.         6—140 

40,         1-  80 

33,      6  f.— 228 

CO,     2  (—140 

61,       12—  80 

—         11—  20 

C2,         8—68 

62,         8—  HO 

36,     3,  8—284 

—          6—60 

63,         2-100 

36,        18—  4110 

—          8—42.60 

—      4  ff.—  81 

88.         6—467 

68,         I-  60 

—           6-104 

41,          4-122 

—         2—286 

—          8—  62 

42,         3-226 

—          8—68 

64,          6—  10 

43,         8—236 

—          4—149 

—         13—161 

46,          4—211 

69,     1,  4—  68 

—        18—  63 

46,  1,  3f.— Ill 

-          8-36 

—     19  f.—  40 

48,      4  f — 144 

73,         1—238 

66,            —364 

60, 1,4  ff.— 278 

—          6—236 

—         2—288 

'1.         0—184 

74,         8-248 

—        10—216, 286 

62,          2—192 

-        10-288 

—        10—226 

—           4— 196 

76,         6—241 

66.         1—  18 

63,2—104.363.473 

—        10—286 

—         6—166 

—      3,6—166 

78,         3—239 

68,         1—102 

nl,          2-14.164 

78,    4  1T.-247 

69,          —  69 

—          8—164,160 

70,         9—196 

61,     4,  6—191 

66,         3—  80 

HI,         2—101 

62,         9—172 

—      2,  3— 162  ff. 

—      4,  6—169  f. 

MaiyklB  x. 

82,     2  ff.— 103,166 

Mm)4*U  ir. 

6-47 

1,        4—101 

88,           —140 

1.      2,4-219 

—        11—213 

86,         2—162 

2,          6—216 

2.         7—68 

—           6—62 

—        11-  «S 

:i.        1—210 

—      7/1— 64 

4,          4-218 

4.         9-216 

—        10—216 
8,         l~ 

—        10—286 
9,     8  L— 210 

jfliiUlit 

—          4—126 

13,         6—219 

t,      4  t— 216 

—          6—811,468 

26,         6-216 

6,          8—216 

4m 

INDEX. 

Bir-t cda  continual— 

IUff.TtlU  entttltmtd— 

R>£*r*4a  twimrf 

7.     1  f.-20* 

60,         6-111 

38, 

4   47,  m 

—          4—14 

01,1,2,7,8,11  r.  -340ff. 

89, 

8—  80 

—          7—214 

63       61.     241 

♦o. 

1-187 

5,          S— 214 

71.  It,  6— 167 

8—364 

—           ft— 218 

72,     1,2—168,270 

46, 

1—162. 1(7 

»,      It— 466 

74,     1, 3—270 

«», 

2—  78,448 

—          7-314 

76,  lff.,9f.— 10!) 

3-  63 

13,        1—418 

—        18-472 

52, 

2—441 

1 1,        2—:'()o 

88, 

18— 160 

10,13, 14,  39,48— 209,220 
17,         8 

Maoifftla  viL 

67, 

1—160 
8—288 

•— M 

l,       14—206 

68, 

12- 

—         10—  80 

8,         1— 211 

CO, 

1—166 

—         11-178 

—         8—209 

8—167 

18,         8—104,114 

—           6— 191 

— 

8—168 

—        10—101 

—          9—226 

— 

4—  68,  IK 

19.         »-  84 

3,         8— 212 

— 

6-  67 

20,         2-  93,96 

—          7-218 

— 

Of.- 88 

21,         4  -  84 

4,         4-200 

61, 

6—  83 

—      6, 8-104 

—          6-217 



1-168 

—        11-113 

5.          4—216 

— 

2— 166  £ 

84,        8—1  or 

—         8—280 

H 

78 

7-  15 

8,         1—2U 

66, 

3-  64, 4» 

—         8—100 

—         8—216 

68, 

2—  61 

24,         8—114 

—           3—220 

4—18S 

87,         4—  WO 

_          6-101 

— 

11—  61 

28,         8—1  OS 

—          7—218 

— 

18—68 

20,         8—  82 

11,         1—802 

67. 

2f.-338 

30,     1.6      30,100 

12.        2-218 

68, 

3- 

H.         1—  02 

13,         1-  49 

— 

7—848 

■0,         I 

—          2—216 

89, 

3—338 

40.          2       N 

16,       12—  43 

72, 

8—348 

11,  -23—169,  193.207 

—        14—216 

— 

4—338 

■::.  24     288 

16,         3-211 

— 

6-836 

46,      88—107 

18,         2—464 

8—191 

47,    if.- m 

20,         8-  79 

78, 

1-168 

—           3  -90. 104 

21.         6—  92 

4—183,888 

—           6-288 

—          7-  17.125 

2—187 

—         6—80 

23,         »—  31 

8—167 

—   8,11-108,112 

—          8-106 

78,  3-168,  1 

—   Uff.-llO 

26,         3—1*8 

80, 

1  —  196 

—        18-  88 

37,         8-107 

81, 

1      194 

—        10-827 

30,         1—  12 

83, 

123, 159 

—        88—168 

31,         6—108 

— 

6t- 

49,         7—340 

—          6—109 

83, 

1-114 

60,         8—  61 

32,   18  t— 108 

— 

8—171 

—         7-8»» 

33,         8-  89 

— 

8—462 

61,         6—88, 41 

—           1—402 

— 

9—183 

7—441 

34.          2—  32 

84, 

2-«4,123 

68.         4—288 

—        20—228 

88, 

3—183 

—          8—389 

—     2lf.-228 

86, 

3ff.-  88 

68*64  —170 

36,  8, 10-169 

87.  1.  2,  3,  6—  «3 

66,           -177 

—         18—286 

— 

4—  83 

66*o7  -178 

38,         2—70 

— 

•7.6* 

8*,      -no 

37.         S—107 

68. 

2-  49 

—          3-167 

38,     8.  4—167 

— 

4  ff.—  80.67 

89,   1U-13J*. 

8—103 

"', 

1 17.-87 

IKDRX. 

187 

Hi^-veda  ttmiinmd — 

ttig-veda  continued— 

Rig-vefa  amtiimtd— 

90,          8-143 

18,          7—478 

48,         7—288 

81,       6—144 

17,    6  IT.—  88 

—         9—965 

—           6—  86 

—        10—  87 

—       13-267,287 

P2,          2— 144 

—        14—  07 

50,         2—  89 

03,         7-  47.218 

IS,       14—  87 

—    9,  17—208 

04,       7-220 

19,        26—108 

61.2,7,12—124 

1  ff.— 840  f. 

—        32—219 

—           7—101 

06,     4  IT.     840 

—        33-208 

64,         7—10* 

1)7,         C-S81 

20,23,24—153 

—     10  f.-162 

—          8—  23,280 

91,        4—106 

65,       18—106 

08,         8—  70, 89 

—         14—112 

57,       11—105 

99,     4f.— 96,  1 

—        18—839. 444 

58,         7—112,286 

100,          4—113 

22,       16—240 

—        11—  88 

101,1,  2,4  ff.-H  If. 

23,         1—211 

—        16—  82 

108,          — m 

—        16—217 

69,         6—  30 

104,         8-312 

—         17—210 

—         7—476 

—           8— 106 

24,       27—114 

61,        17—265 

26,          3—38 

62,          2—241 

Mondula  ▼»'•• 

26,  21—144,229 

27,  iO— 474 

—  4—238 

—  11-249,268 

2,          4—89 

28,         1—  10 

84,         1—213 

—         12—484 

—          4—  18 

65,        10—  83 

—         IS—  20,88 

29,          7—  19 

66,          1—  81 

—        20—400 

30,         2—  10 

—         4—80 

4,         0-108,457 

—         3—19 

67,         3—168 

—  18,  12—  89 

81,    1.1  f —  20 

—      6f.— 112 

—        16—486 

32,       26—  97 

—         7—116 

6.  1  f,  30-238 

33,         2—  89 

—        10—173 

—          7—242 

—         8—468 

—        20-301 

—    38  f.— 840 

—        17-461 

68,         1—368 

—        88— «56 

34,         9—  86 

—         9—266 

8,         1-98 

—         8—467 

69,1,3,4,7—104 

—         6—30 

85,          3—  10 

70,        8—100, 107 

—        13-  98 

—    13  ff.— 156 

71,         8—271 

—         15-100 

36,          4—118 

78,     7  f— 474 

—        18—  49 

39,          8—210 

78,         9— IN 

—        88-  31 

—         6—215 

—         7—158 

—       40—89 

4(1,         7—471 

80,11,14—  96 

—        41—102 

41.       10—378 

81,         6—116 

7,4,8,28-180 

42,          1—  61 

—       80—106 

—        25—149 

—         8—86 

—       82—106 

—        31—  93 

43,       13-209 

82,         6-101 

8,  4,  23—238 

—       21—218 

—       12-  31 

9,       12—248 

—        23—215 

83,    »ff.— 142 

—         17-192,238 

—       31—217 

85,         3—  83 

12,        14—  47 

44,        23—109 

—  4. 8,  9—190 

—        it—  92 

45,          4—  81 

—   7,  18—  93 

—        30—101 

—        17—106 

—         8—147 

13,        18—81 

—   32  ff.— Ill 

—       90—106 

M,          1—108 

—        39—  85 

86.         14—101 

—    6,  11—  82 

46,        32—461 

87.          2—363 

—          9—100 

—        33—465 

—           6— 114 

—         13—  98 

47,    %  8—  67 

—         8—91 

—         14—97 

—         9—38 

—       11-106 

—        14—112 

—        13—  67 

89,      3  f— lot 

14,         2—100 

48,         1-368 

—         8—282 

—         8—92 

—         8—  19,90 

—         9—86 

488 

IXDEX. 

Rlg.vexla  amtinimt — 

Bir«T«rU  co-tiMud— 

Rir-mk  toatinmd 

11—64,1*8 

106,         8—  14,266 

34,            —42* 

—        12 — 169 

14-7,         7—267 

—          1-281 

—        16 

168,         8—266 

—       4  f.— 4W 

—         16-370 

100,         3—868 

36.         7 

91,      4  t— 213 

—         16-266 

38,      2  £—  4t 

—           6—163 

1 10,          3—267 

—          14-168 

—         8—225 

ii2,        _m 

37,         1—1 66,  IS* 

—        17—206 

113,         2—103,881 

—          8- 

—     19  t— 218 

-          3-237 

—         13—441 

9S,          1—113,210 

—      7  ff.— 240,306 

36.          8—114 

—          2— 11  i 

114.          3—64 

39.     8,0—241 

—          8-215 

-  0,  11— HO 

—  8-243, 244 

M    mliln   *. 

—          9—  2461 

MamlnU  it. 

—        11—184 

1  l,4f.— 200 

—        18— 184,3m 

1,         I  -281 

—           7—24,206 

—        18—348 

—         6—237 

4,         1— 216 

40,         2—469 

4,        e— 225 

6,         7-61 

—         8— 4« 

6,         9-226 

6—218 

—           4 — 40* 

42,         4—267 

8,     8  f.— 280 

—           8—468 

£4,         3-268 

9,         8—348 

il.          8—69 

61,10.22,30—267 

10,           —288 

42,          2—107 

60,    lftf.— 268 

—          6—170,226 

—           8—108 

—     18-200 

18,        8-  4  7 

—    4,11 

—       24-2G7 

14,           —291 

1—104,4(8 

C7,   10  If.— 481 

—          7—66 

—      4,7—90,463 

73,          8— 268,  312 

16,           —294 

—          8—169 

76.         2—267 

-        12—202 

44,         8-l»t 

M,         4—269 

16,     1  IT.— 297 

-         t-87 

83,        8-142 

—         4—217,476 

4o,          1-207 

83,         3—287 

17,     I  ir— 227,2X7 

—           4- 

86,        2—208 

-      3  ir. — 164,173 

—          8—305 

—         3-267 

—           8—241 

40,          8—309 

—        12-21.3 

—    10  ff.— 838 

1  -304,33d 

86,10,87,40-267 

18,         3—166 

17.     1.7—104 

—        29—169 

—          6—226 

l—toi 

—       44-460 

8*1,        9- 

—          8—  84,93 

87,         2— 13.  267  f. 

6—209 

—          11—1.4 

—         6—97 

22.    4  ff—  65 

49,         3—  8v. 

—         9—65 

23.         7—104 

—          7-  84,166 

88,     8  f— 287 

U,         6—  249 

—        10—338 

89,          6-268 

26,    8,6—268 

60.          4—  01 

—       IJ—  :>5 

—           7—269 

61.     4ff.— 202  t 

80,         3-267 

—           9—267 

62,      1  f.— 203 

—         6—268 

26,     4  f.— 1*0 

63,         9-324,281 

91,       22—  267 

27,    11  f. — 668 

It 

02,          4-  11 

-        17—467 

64.  Iff,  4-102 

—         6—477 

28,         8—90 

-       a—  ao 

* 

86,        4—  13.  267 

29.          0—  30 

66,          1—  31 

—         t 

30.         6—269 

66.        1— SOT 

07,       24-288 

—        10-478 

6*.         1— 318 

—        41 

—         12—339 

60,         4—380 

—       42—200 

31,          3—  19 

60.        10—813 

—        68—  41 

—           7—  33 

61.          4—239 

98,         9—  81,268 

33,          2—467 

02,          3—149 

1*  18—487 

—      8  1.—  19 

—        11—458 

I.VDEX. 

489 

Big.Trd*  mairnmt— 

Blg-veda  ttmlinmd 

lbg-val*  nwliiW — 

63,      2  f.— 38  f. 

90,         6—  SO 

141.         3—  2SO 

—         7-209 

—        14—  SI 

142,         4—212 

—        10—  41 

91,         3-204 

146,          —422 

c«,       a—  19 

—  3—  201,  21  •< 

140.     1,4—31,1*4 

—         8—  61 

—     4  r.— 213 

4—201 

65,        6—  es 

—     8  e.— 200 

151.     1  ff.— 346 

—         9—89 

93,         6- 

162,         1—106 

—        11— 11* 

05,       18—284 

-         4—312 

—       13—844 

97,  1,  3  ff.— 13,867,468 

164,           —310 

—        16—  1» 

—         6—464 

166,         4—169,214 

66,       10—227 

—  16,  1U— 2S1.463 

168,    Iff.—    8,170 

67,         6—193 

—        10—303 

169,         4—  14 

68,  atf.— 193, 279, 2M 

98,         7—380 

1—107 

—        11—287,311 

99,         6—  98,230 

-          3—104 

69,         3—209 

100,        6—281 

166,         4-302 

—         0~-8U 

—          8—168 

167,          1—   14,80 

70,   2,11—202 

101.        12—  13 

168,     1  ff.— 145 

—          9— 226 

102,          3—114 

171,          4—168 
173,           -468 

71,         2—348 

—        12— 102 

—         4—461 

103,    8  ff.— 109,281 

181,         3—169 

72,          —  48,3*5 

1117.           — 433 

184,         1—  226,3f'0 

—      2  f—  17 

—         1—287 

—         2—842,3*6 

73,         1—  79 

—         2—  235 

186,          1—146 

—         6—198 

109,         4—  17 

IM7,         4—316 

76,          —348 

—         6—401 

190.           — 47» 

78,        8-150 

110         9-31,226 

—          3—31,169 

79,      1  £—212 

—        11—201 

RiiriVi,  246 

..  292 

—           4—210 

112,         1—  94 

—         6—216 

—           2—84 

Hirer*,  843 

80,         8—247 

—          3—83 

H<kU»1.  1*3,  345 

81  &  82-364 

113,         3—  92 

llnhipl,  264 

81,     2  /.—  82 

114,         2—  19 

u..!.iiu,  m  f 

83,         1— 114 

—         3—462 

Rudrt,  1,126,  U 

-      2 1-361 

—         6—363 

lludru,  11,  124,  147  IT. 

8*.         1—188 

116,         1—210 

—     2  ff.— 266,270 

117,            —431 

—*,9.14 

—          1-  19 

8. 

-          4-79 

119,          —  90 

—        19—192 

—         4—106 

Sadhru,  17, 55,  372 
8 likaJra.  318 

—  28,37—173,243 

120,         1—  79 

—        43—390 

—         6—92 

8'iikapQoi.  207 

—        46—460 

—         6—96 

8'iikra,  US 

86,         9—337 

Ul.         9-31 

SAna-ioda — 

—    11 1—  82 

123,         6—  60 

i.    299—  3$ 

—        19—114 

1—226 

—     340— 2M9 

87.2,6,14—204 

l-i,            —     5,366 

ii.   I06O— 463 

88,        2—211 

-           1-32 

—   1219—   M 

—           4—214 

—        6—  U 

8uoTVtoka  Are,  |C1 

-4.8,10r.-200 

131,         4—  92 

S'unbtre,  96  f. 

—        II— 64,169 

133,          —471 

BU  1,380 

-        16—387 

—         2—81 

Stnktnhan*.  408 
Sankbjr*  kflrilu  i|on€«l,  10 

88,         2—97 

134,         1—  79 

—         4—102 

—          6—87 

f>'i]ihAraj.  87 

-         7-96 

136,         1—302 

Smaf,  tM 

—      8 t-176 

138,         6-193 

8ara»T&,  227,  237,   1 

—        10-31,102 

—         6—92, 102 

289 

90,          -367 

139,         1-168,172 

8anmt,340 

H 

dr. 
1, 8, 1S-3M 

a,  i.  8 —  ■ 

—2,  2—  13 
8.2,  1—372 
6,2,13—319 
—9,28—316 
7,  1, 82—308 

BrriW,  31,  43,  47,  64, 
125.  168.  161  a.,  liS 

8«itrimi>iii,  310 

8'»rq.  247 

*  .143,  339,  344,  454 

6uutCII,  33,  340 

Slumbhi,  3*8  IT. 

Soma,    13.    31,    91.    110. 
121,  145,  ISO,  U 

ff-.aos 

.  *8  ff.,  287 
S'wddbS, -J61,  345,401 
8'rf.  349 

Bbue  quoted.  77 
Bnbsndhu.  31 3 
Sudi*,  1*1,171 


Taittnf  j-a  Brihm«9»— 

L 

8,    2,    t-166 
6.    2,    ft— 200 

6,   4,    1-164 


2,    3,  3-  80 

—  7.  1-378 
—0,1.10-38.885 

—  10,  1-' 
4,    I,  6-201 

—  2,  6—290 

—  7—86,61 
6—307 

«,    8,  6-342 

—  6-8*7 

—  8—404 

—  0-889 

—  D,  6-32,  355 

I 

1,    3,11—249 
7.  12.8f.-flfl.44l 
9.22.    1—372 

10.  9,11-320 

—  11,    I— 800 

—  6 — 820 

11.  8,    1-880 

12.  2.    6—818 
•  3,1-13,44 

—  9,  7-800 


INDEX. 

491 

TaittirtyttBriibmann,Om- 

V. 

Vr.ta,  39,  86,  142,  145 

nunUry  on,  qucit*d,868, 

Vflyii.  8.  39,  86,   143ff., 

302  f.,  806 

TJcMiwMii,  13,  391,  396  ff. 

306,  229 

TuittirTya  Snnhitfi— 

Firmjit,  430 
TT|rrndpT»,  286 
UffTampai yi,  430 

VibhSTomi,  203 

VibhMaka,  426 

L 

Vilk*t«ngi,  82 

X  a,  l-si 

Upabhrit,  398 

Vimoik.  106,  314 

8,  10,    1—  58 

rpaha»ya,  397 
TTraga,  00,  S3 

V  .<  i.  .-.i),  389.  H7.  N0. 

401,406 

ii. 

Urra>T,  346.  421 

VLrOpa,  292 

3,    8,    1—403 

Uahaa,  18,  167,  178,  181 

Vidt^apo,  l>44 

3,   8,    1—11,26* 

ff.,  238 

VUhrJu,   1.  13,  19,63,79, 

6,    1,    1—230 

TJtlinapjul,  41,  380 

06,   113,  122,  12J.  169, 

—  8,   6—201 

—        6—218 

V. 

VuliBiipuruna,    63,    271, 

—11,   8—201 

313 

6,    8,    4— 47« 

V5.<h,  263,  340,  342,  870, 

YuhOmt,  397 

302,  406 

Vu'pall,  215 
Vu'vaka,  21* 

ir. 

Vachoapoti,  273 

p.  84*     —  63 

ViullirimntJ,  247 

Vu'iitkaniiaji.  1,  32,  363, 

Yaillirya.'  vn,  341 

364.  372,  396 

T. 

ViirOpu,  311 

Vtfrarapa,  230 

«.    «,    »-  74 

VaiYya,  871 

Vitaatf.344 

p.  34a     —  15 

Tfijw,  284 

ViTa«T»t,60.  62,  66,  114, 

Vajaaancyi  Sanbiia— 

206,227,236,267,266, 

Ti- 

1.   17—217 

288,301 

lt    3,    6—  17 

7,    11—883 

Vphimnftnuilya     Pnr&no, 

1,    4,    3—478 

10,    16—  U 

m 

1,   «,   8—288 

1 3,    43—  36 

Vrun&kapi  arma,  421 
Vr'itn,  79,  8  i.  96  ».,  1 10, 

4,    3,    3-  73 

10,    12—  04 

—    8,      —  69 

23.47f.- 

220,  267 

—   0.    1—263 

20,     9—226 

Villon,  199 

-  10,    1—230 

-60—63 

6,  11,    3—  01 

31,    18—373 

w. 

j..  10,     —307 

—     19-390 

p.  18,      -474 

—     22—319 

Water*,  343 

p.  41,     —372 

32,      2—374 

p.  66a    —226 

—      6—801 

X. 

p.  67-    -317 

Vila,  279 

Vulttkhilra— 

Xenophoa  referred  to,  71 

Tii. 

8,      3—461, 467 

2,    7.    2-33* 

9.     2—  II 

y. 

4,    2,    1—  1« 

10.     2—367 

Tap**,  80,  301,  306 

Yandana.  246 

Ttakttfl 

Tp.MfiniO,  344 

fed N 

Yarna,  66,  219,  927.  2 

TriU,  117.  419 

na,  76 

J84IT.,  363,  421,  4*2  f. 

Tiitt  Aptya,  106, 230, 336 
TrfUua.462 

Varuna,    1,  4,  13.    32   (.. 

Yam!,  923,  287  IT..  421 

37  IT..  46  r..  64  C,  6811., 

Yamuna.  339,  344 

Tti*ra,24*t 

110,  1 16  IT.,  olpaaaim. 

Yatudliaiioa,  9,  204,  279 

Ton  KAra&aera,  387 

Vanxoial.  346 

Yima,  76 

TnnW«,2&6 

VorOtri.  SS-J 

Trinlnns  338 

Vo«Uh(Ka,  70.  346 

Z. 

Trwhtri,  81,  38.  96,  96, 

Vaiubtlui.  1U6,  296,311 

111,  206,   224  H,  281, 

YOitaahptd,  273 
Vmim,  11,22,124,  103 

ZcmlaTwU,  71.  120,  (19 

287,280 

Zcm,  4,  21,33,46,261 

THR  WXJK 

•n 


i 
-IIP 


i 


STANFORD  UNIVERSITY  LIBRARIES 

STANFORD  AUXILIARY  LIBRARY 

STANFORD.  CALIFORNIA  94305-6004 

(650)   723-9201 

sale  irc@  sulmail.stanford.edu 

AH  books  are  subject  to  recol 

DATE  DUE 


I       * 


