LIBRARY  OF  THE 

UNIVERSITY  OF  ILLINOIS 

AT  URBANA-CHAMPAIGN 

2<Hl 


5TX 


ORIGINAL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS 

ON   THE 

01UGIN  AND  HISTORY 

OF 

THE  PEOPLE  OF  INDIA, 

THEIR  RE2JGION  AND  INSTITUTIONS. 

CJj:> ELECTED,    TRANSLATED,    AND-  ILLUSTRATED 
I 

sr 

J.    MUIB,    D.C.L.,  LL.D.,  PH.D. 


VOLUME  FIFTH. 

CONTRIBUTIONS  TO  A  KNOWLEDGE  OP  THE  COSMOGONY,  MYTHOLOGY,  KELIGIOtTS 
tbEAS,  LIFE  AND  MANNEES,  OF  THE  INDIANS  IN  THE  VEDIC  AGE. 


LONDON: 
TRUBNER  &  CO.,  8  AND  60,   PATERNOSTER    ROW. 

1870. 
(All  rights  reserved.') 


Ou  yap  olv  oi»8^  fyvxov  ou>8p<farots  6  9tbs  irtro\tlptov  &irb  robruv  3^  TOUT  XP&'/U**'OVS 
OUTOIS  KO!  $a>povfj.4vovs  JJILIV  KO!  KO.pi\ovra.s  atvvaa  /col  SiaptCT]  6eobs  ivo  fj.lt,' afitv,  oi>x 
iripovs  trap'  krtpois  ouSe  /3ap/8apous  «al  "EAATyj/ar  ot>8«  POTBOYS  (cal  fiopeiovs-  &AV 
8><Tirtp  {)A.tof  /col  ereA^rij  «al  ofyNW&j  «al  y»}  (col  6oA.oo-(ra  /coiw  ir5(Tiv,  oyoyu<{£ETat  8^ 
Awi',  oSrwj  IvJis  \(fyoi(  TOW  raura  Kofffuvinos  ical  (uas  irpovoias  &ri- 
iced  Svvdnetiiv  vxovpyaiv  M  irefiras  T  rayufvuv,  t-rfpcu  irap' 
varek  vdpovs  yeydvaffi  rj/xai  »coi  irpoffriyoplai-  KCU 
/nei/  a,uvSpu?s,  <J«  Se  rpavwrtpois,  iirl  T&  S«a  r^ 
"Evio*  yap  cbro(7<£aA.eVTer  Trcurtiiraffiv  (Is  fiftffiSai/j.oviai'  &\iffdov  •  ol  8e  (ptiryoj^rt ; 
fficrirep  ?\oy  i-Jjv  SfiffiSaifiovlav,  $\a,6ov  a20»j  £<nrep  elj  Kpr\nvbv  fnirfffovres  v)\» 
&6f6rrjTa. — Plutarch,  de  Iside  et  Osiride,  section  67. 

[In  opposition  to  those  who  represented   Dionysos,  the  wine-god,  as  meaning 
merely  wine,  Hephaistos  fire,  Demeter  corn,  etc.,  Plutarch  urges]  :— 

"  For  the  god  is  not  a  lifeless  thing,  subject  to  human  handling  and  control.    But 
from  the  fact  that  they  dispose  of,  and  bestow  upon  us,  these  objects,  and  preserve 
them  to  us  perpetual  and  constant,  we  hare  considered  them  to  be  gods.     And  the 
gods  are  not  different  among  different  peoples,  they  are  not  Barbarian,  or  Hellenic,  nc 
southern  or  northern ;  but  just  as  the  sun,  and  the  moon,  and  the  heayen,  and  the 
earth,  and  the  sea  are  common  to  all — though'  they  receive  different  names  from 
different  races — so  too,  while  there  is  but  one  reason  that  orders,  and  one  providence 
that  superintends,  this  universe,  and  administrative  powers  are  set  over  all,  different 
honours  and  appellations  have  been  assigned  to  these  divine  beings  by  the  laws  of 
different  nations.    And  symbols  too  are  employed,  some  o£  an  obscure  character,  by 
initiated  persons,  and  others  of  a  plainer  description  by  others,  with  the  vi« 
guiding  men's  conceptions  of  divine  things.  But  this  practice  is  not  free  fruin  danger ; 
for  some  persons,  deviating  f.om  th«.  truth,  have  slipped  int-«  superstition,  while 
others,  seeking  to  avoid  the  marsh  of  superstition,  have  fallen-iuto  atheism  as  over  a 
precipice." 


HERTFORD : 

PRINTED   BT  *TBPHEJ»   AUSTIN. 


PRESAGE. 


IN  the  present  volume  I  have  reprinted,  with  the 
addition  of  some  new  materials,  subsequently  collected, 
and  of  the  texts  on  which  they  are  founded,  a  series  of  . 
papers  on  the  theogony,  mythology,  and  religious  ideas 
of  the  Yedic  poets,  and  other  subjects,  which  originally 
appeared  in  the  Journal  of  the  Eoyal  Asiatic  Society 
of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland"  for  1864,  and  the,  two 
following  years :  and  I  have  appended  a  new  section, 
on  life  and  manners  during  the  Yedic  age. 

I  have  not  thought  it  necessary  to  translate  all  the 
texts  to  which  I  have  referred  in  proof  of  the  repre- 
sentations I  have  mad«i  To  have  done  so  would  have 
extended  the  work  to  an  unnecessary  length,  as  nu- 
merous verses  are  cited  for  the  sake  of  a  single  epithet. 
Some  of  the  texts  are  rendered  in  full ;  but  in  many,  . 
perhaps  most,  cases  I  have  contented  myself  with  giving 
the  substance  of  several  passages  of  pimilar  or  identical 
purport. 

Nor  have  I  considered  it  necessary  to  supply  here  any 
summary  of  the  contents  of  the  volume,  such  as  was 
given  in  the  prefaces  to  the  third  and  fourth,  volumes,  and 
in  that  to  the  second  edition  of  the  first  volume.  The 
summary  given  in  the  Table  "of  Contents  seems  suffi- 
ciently, ample  to  afford  the  reader  the  means  of  readily 


vi  PREFACE.  * 

. 

ascertaining  what  he  may  expect  to  find  in  the  body 

of  the  work. 

*• 

I  have  tried  to  exhibit,  in  a  metrical  form,  the  sub- 
stance of  the  ideas  regarding  Ihdra  and  some  other 
deities,  which  are  more  fully  illustrated  in  the  prose 
sections.  ^ 

I  should  also  further  resaark  that  in  this  volume  1 
have  attempted  nothing  more  than  to  exhibit  the  most 
prominent  features  of  the  gods, — such  as  display,  them- 
selves on  the  surface.  It  must  remain  for  some  more 
profound  and  critical  scholar,  after  maturer  investigation, 
to  penetrate  more  deeply  into  the  nature  and  essence  of 
the  Yedic  mythology,  to*estimate  and  represent  it  in  a 
more  philosophical  spirit,  to  investigate  the  age  of  the  . 
different  hymns,  and  to  determine  how  far  it  may  be 
possible  to  trace  in  the*m  a  development  of  the  mytho- 

c> 

logy,  from  a  simpler  to  a  more  complex  state,  or"  any 
other  modification  of  its  character  or  elements,  even 
before  it  began  to  show  any  tendency  towards  mono- 
theism. 

Meanwhile,  and  until  the  subject  ,shall  have  been 
treated  in  a  manner  more  befitting  its  importance,  the 
materials  which  I  h#ve5  brought  together,  Arranged,  and 
interpreted,  will  enable  those  students  •  of  mythology 
who  are  themselves  unable  to  consult  the  originals,  to 
form,  I  trust,  a  not  inaccurate,  and  a  tolerably  complete, 
conception  of  the  character  and  attributes  of  the  Indian 
deities  in  the  earliest  forn?  in  which  they  are  represented 
to  us  by  written  records. 


CONTENTS. 


PAGES. 

v.,  vi.      PREFACE. 

1  —  7.  INTRODUCTION. 

2.  (1)  Affinities  of  the  Indian  and  jjhecian  mythologies. 

3.  (2)  Antiquity  and  peculiarity  of  the  Vedic  mythology. 

4.  (3)  Origin  of  cosmogonic  and  mythological  speculation. 
6.      (4)  Variety  in  the  conceptions  of  the  Yedic  poets. 

a 

8  —  -  20.  SECTION  I.  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY,  AS  REPRESENTED 

IN  THE  RlG-VEDA. 

8.  (1)  Yaska's  classification  of  the  gods. 

9.  (2)  Their  number. 

12.      (3)  Their  origin  and  immortality. 

16.      (4)  Different  generations  of  gods  and  their  mutual  relations. 

18.      (5)  Their  powers  and  prerogatives. 

21  ^  34.  SECTION  II.   DYATTS  AND?PRITHIY! ,( HEAVEN  AND  EARTH). 
22.      (1)  Heaven  ancl  Earth  described  as  the  universal  parents. 
24.      (2)  Passages  to  the  same  effect  from  the  classical  authors. 
30.      (3)  Heaven  and  Earth  elsewhere  spoken  of  as  created. 

32.      (4)  Speculations  about  their  origin. 

/> 

35  —  53.  SECTION  III.  ADITI.      ' 
35.      (1)  The  epithets  by  which  she  is  characterized. 
37.      (2)  Origin  of  the  conception  of  Aditi  according  to  Professors 
Roth  and  Miiller. 


Tiii  CONTEXTS. 

• 

t 

37.  (3)  Aditi  as  the  mother  of  the  Adityas. 

38.  (4)  Is  Aditi  ever  identified  with  the  sky  ? 

40.      (5)  Aditi  seems  to  be  distinguished  from  the  Earth. 

42.  (6)  Aditi  and  Diti. 

43.  (7)  Aditi  may  be  a  personification  of  universal  nature. 

46.  (8)  Aditi  as  a  forgiver  of  sin.  < 

47.  (9)  Aditi's  position  is  sometimes  a  subordinate  one. 

48.  (10)  Creation  as  described  in  Big-veda,  x.  72;  birth  of  Aditi; 

Daksha,  the  gods,  and  the  Adityas. 

c 

54—  57.  SECTION  IV.  THE  ADITYAS. 

58—  76^.  SECTION  V.  MITEA  AND  YABUJTA. 

58.  (1)  General  idea  of  these  two  gods. 

59.  (2)  Their  chief  characteristics. 

61.  (3)  Functions  and  attributes  of  Varuna. 

68.  (4)  Conjoint  functions  and  attributes  of  Mitra  and  Varuna. 

69.  (5)  Hymn  addressed  to  Mitra  alone.  A 
69.  (6)  Professor  Roth's  remarks  on  Mitra  and  Varuna. 

71.  (7)  The  Indfan  Mitra  and  the  Zoroastrian  Mithca. 

72.  (8)  Is  there  any  historical  connection  between  Varuna   and 

Ahura  Mazda  ? 

72.      (9)  Varuna  connected  with  the  element  of  water,  even  in  the 
Big-veda. 

75.  (10)  Explanations  by  Professors  Both  and  Westergaard  of  the 

process  by  which  Varuna  came  to  be  regarded  as  the 
regent  of  the  sea.  «• 

76.  (11)  Correspondence- of  V&runa  with  the  Greek  £Jranos.      r 
760.    (1)  Varuna,  as  represented  in  the  hymns, — a  (metrical  sketch. 

77—139.  SECTION  VI.  INDEA. 

77.  (1)  His  origin  and  parents  ;  his  wife. 

83.  (2)  His  attributes,  physical  and  mental. 

84,  (3)  His  chariot  and  horsec. 

86.      (4)  His  thunderbolt  and  other  weapons  and  instruments. 
88.      (5)  His  love  of  soma-juice  ;  his  combats  with  the  cloud-demons  : 
explanation  of  the  myth. 


CONTENTS.  ix 

98.    (5«)  India's  greatness. 
103.      (6)  His  relations  with  his  worshippers. 

115.  (7)  Apparent  mutual  incongruity  of  some  of  the  preceding 

representations  of  Indra. 

116.  (8)  Professor  Roth's  theory  of  th$  supersession  of  the  worship 

of  Yaruna  by  that  of  Indra. 

118.      (9)  Supersession  of  Dyaus  by  Indra  according  to  Professors 
Benfey  and  Breal. 

120.  (10)  Opinions  of  Professors  Roth,  Whitney,  Spiegel,  and  Dr.  F. 

Windischmann  on   the   question  whether  Varuna  and 
Ahura  Muzda  are  historically  connected. 

121.  (11)  Whether  there  are  any  passages  in  the  hymns  which  de- 

cisively show  that  Indra  was  superseding  Varuna. 
126.  (12)  Indra  as  represented  in  the  hymns, — a  metrical  sketch. 
(1)  Invitation  of  Indra  to  the  sacrifice.  (2)  His  birth. 
(3)  His  arrival.  (4)  Indra  invited  to  drink  the  soma- 
draught.  (5)  Praise  of  Soma.  (6)  Indra's  drinking 
song.  (7)  He  drinks  the  libation.  (8)  Indra,  attended 
by  the  Maruts,  sets  out  to 'encounter  Vritra.  (9)  His 
conflict  with  Vritra.  (10)  His  greatness.  (11)  His 
relation  to  his  worshippers. 

140—142.  SECTION"  VII.  PABJANYA. 
H3_H6.  SECTION  VIII.  Vlru. 

147—154.  SECTION  IX.  THE  MAKUTS. 

147.      (1)  Their  parentage,  epithets,  characteristics,  and  action. 
153.      (2)  Their  relations  to  Indra,  and  the  rival  claims  of  the  two 
parties. 

155—161.  SECTION  X.  SURYA. 

155.      (1)  The  two  sun-gods  separately  celebrated  in  the  hymns. 

157.  (2)  Surya's  parentage,  relationerto  the  other  gods,  epithets,  and 

functions. 

158.  (3)  Subordinate  position  sometimes  assigned  to  him. 

159.  (4)  Translations  in  prose  and  verse  of  a  hymn  to  Surya. 


x  CONTENTS. 

t. 

162—170.  SECTION  XI.  SAVTTEI. 

162.      (1)  His  epithets,  characteristics,  and  functions. 

165.      (2)  Passages  in  which  the  derivation  of  his  name  seems  to  he 

alluded  to. 

c 

168.      (3)  Savitri  sometimes"  distinguished  from,  sometimes  identified 
with,  Surya.  , 


171—180.  SECTION  XII. 
171.      (1)  Functions  and  epithets  of  Pushan. 

174.      (2)  Hymns  addressed  to  him  (i.  42  ;  (vi.  53c-vi.  58,  and  portions 
of  others)  quoted  and  translated. 

181—198.  SECTION  XIII.  USHAS. 

181.      (1)  Three  hymns  to  TJshas  (i.  48  ;  i.  92  ;  i.  113),  and  portions  of 

others  quoted  and  translated. 
190.      (2)  Relations  of  Ushas  <So  other  deities. 
193.      (3)  Her  epithets,  functions,  aud  characteristics. 
196.      (4)  Ushas,  as  represented  in  the  hymns,  —  a  metrical  sketch. 

i 

199—223.  SECTION  XIII  A.  AGNI. 

199.  (1)  His  functions. 

204.  (2)  His  births,  and  triple  existence. 

211.  (3)  His  epithets  and  characteristics. 

214.  (4)  High  divine  functions  ascribed  to  him. 

216.  (5)  His  relations  to  his  worshippers. 

221.  (6)  Agni,r  —  a  metrical  sketch. 

224—233.  SECTION  XIV.  TVASHTEI.  * 

224.      (1)  His  epithets,  functions,  and  relations.      ° 

227.      (2)  His  daughter  and  her  wedding. 

229.      (3)  Hostility  of  Indra  and  Tvashtri. 

234—257.  SECTION  XVi  THE  ASVINS. 

234.  (1)  Their  character  and  parentage,  their  relations  to  Surya, 

their  attributes  and  accompaniments. 

235.  (2)  Legends  regarding  different  persons  delivered  or  favoured 

by  them. 


»  CONTENTS.  xi 

» 

> 

248.  (3)  Their  connection  with  other  deities. 

249.  (4)  Their  relations  to  their  worshippers. 

.250.      (5)  Legend   of  Chyavana   and   the  As"vins,   according  to  the 

S'atapatha  Brahmana  and  the  Mahabharata. 
255.      (6)  Remarks  on  the  Asvins  by  Professor  Goldstiicker. 

258—271'.  SECTION  XVI.  SOHA. 

*  9 

2o9.  (1)  Quotation  from  Euripides  relating  to  the  Greek  god  Dio- 
nysus. 

261.  (2)  Prevalence  and  enthusiastic  character  of  the  ancient  Soma- 

worship. 

262.  (3)  How  the  soma-plant  was  brought  to  the  earth. 

264.  (4)  Soma's  wives. 

265.  (5)  Properties  ascribed  to  the  soma-plant  or  its  presiding  deity. 

266.  (6)  Divine  powers  attributed  to  Soma. 

269.  (7)  Soma  associated  with  other  gods. 

270.  (8)  Soma  in  the  post-vedio  age  a  name  of  the  moon. 

j 

272—283.  SECTION  XYII.  BRiHASPATr  AND  BRAHMANASPATI. 

272.   „         Professor  Roth's  account  of  this  deity.   * 

274.  (1)  Passages  in  which  he  is  celebrated  (R.V.  ii.  23 ;  ii.  24, 
1  ff. ;  iv.  50,  1,  4  ff.  ;  x.  68,  6ff.;  i.  40,  5  f .  ;  i.  190, 
If.;  v.  43,  12  ;  x.  98,  7)  quoted  and  translated. 

280.  (2)  Parentage  and  attribute."  of  the  god. 

281.  (3)  Whether  Brihaspati  and   Brahmanaspati   are   identifiable 

with  Agni ; — opinions  of  M.  Langlois,  and  Professors 
H.  H.  "Wilson  and  Max  Hiiller. 

i 
'•*  f>  O 

284 — 335.  SECTION  XVIII.  YAMA  AND  THE  DOCTRINE  OF  A  FUTURE 

LIFE. 
284.      (1)  References  to  immortality  in  the  earlier  books  of  the  Rig- 

veda. 

286.  (2)  References  to  the  Fathers  (i^be  souls  of  departed  ancestors) 

in  the  earlier  books  of  the  Rig-veda. 

287.  (3)  Hymns  and  portions  of  hymns  relating  to  Yama  and  the 

Fathers,  viz.,  x.  17,  If. ;  x.  10;  x.  14;  x.  15;  x.  16, etc., 
quoted  and  translated. 


xii  CONTENTS.      -  «. 

300.  (4)  Summary  of  the  conceptions  conveyed  in  the  preceding 
quotations. 

305.  (5)  Further  quotations  from  the  hymns  on  the  subject  of  para- 
dise, its  pleasures,  the  continuance  there  of  the  family 
relations,  and  oil  future  punishment. 

314.  (6)  Quotations  from  later  Indian  works,  the  Brahmanas,  etc., 
with  some  remarks  of  Professor  Weber  on  their  doctrines 
regarding  the  destiny  of  the  soul. 

327.      (7)  Yama  and  a  future  life, — a  metrical  sketch. 

329.  (8)  Nachiketas,  an  ancient  theosophic  storyj.  metrically  rendered 
from  the  Taittirlya  Brahmana  and  the  Katha  Upanishad. 

336.  SECTION  XIX.  MINOE  DIVINITIES  :  TEITA  APTYA,  AHIE- 

BUDHNYA,  AND  AjA  EKAPAD. 

337—349.  SECTION  XX.  THE  GODDESSES  MENTIONED  IN  THE  VEDIC 

HYMNS. 

337.  (1)  Sarasvati,  Ila,  BharatI,  Mahi,  Hotra,  Varutri,  apd  Dhishana. 
343.      (2)  Apas,  the  Water&;  hymn  to  the  Sindhu,  Ganga,  Yamuna, 

and  6ther  rivers. 
345.      (3)  The  Apsarases. 

345.  (4)  Agnayl,  Varunani,  Asvini,  Eodasi. 

346.  (5)  AranyanI ;  (6)  Raka,  Sinivali,  andGungu;  (7)  S'raddha. 
348.      (8)  Lakshmi  and  S'rI. 

350—420.  SECTION  XXI.  PEOGEESS  OF  THE  VEDIC  RELIGION  TOWAEDS 

ABSTEACT  CONCEPTIONS  OF  THE  DEITY. 

350.  Introductory  s>emdrks,  embracing  references  to  somp  texts 

indicating  a  tendency  in  this  direction* 

353.  (1)  Texts  of  a  more    decidedly  monotheistic   or  pantheistic 

character. 

354.  (2)  Visvakarman. 

355.  (3)  Hiranyagarbha-;  (4^  Brahmanaspati,  Daksha,  and  Aditi. 

356.  (5)  Nonentity,  entity,  and  the  One,  R.V.  x.  129,  with  illustrations 

from  the  commentary  on  the  Taittirlya  Brahmana,  etc. 
367.      (6)  The  Purusha-sukta,  R.V.  x.  90  j  the  hymn  on  Purusha, 
A.V.  x.  2,  etc. 


,  CONTENTS.  xiii 

* 
378.      (7)  Skambha  and  Brahma,  A.V.  x.  7 ;  x.  8,  etc ;  with  remarks 

by  Professor  Goldstiicker  on  Skambha,  etc. 
'390.      (8)  Prajapati. 
393.      (9)  Prana,  as  celebrated  in  A.V.  xi.  4. 

395.  (10)  Rohita,  as  celebrated  in  A.Y.  xiii.  1,  and  xiii.  2. 

396.  (11)  Tho  IJchhishta,  as  celebrated  in  A.V.  xi.  7. 

398.  (12)  Sacrificial  implements,  etc. ;  (13)  Anumati. 

399.  (14)  The  Ox  or  Kettle ;  (15)  +he  Brahmacharin. 
402.    (16)  Kama,  as  celebrated  in  A.V.  ix.  2. 

407.    (17)  Kala,  or  Time,  as  celebrated  in  A.V.  xix.  53  and  54. 

410.    (18)  General  remarks  on  the  preceding  passages. 

412.  (19)  Whether  polytheism  or  monotheism  was  the  earliest  form 
of  the  Aryan  religion  :  opinions  of  Messrs.  Pictet,  Pflei- 
derer,  Scherer,  Reville,  and  Roth  on  this  subject. 

421 — 449.  SECTION  XXII.  MISCELLANEOUS  HYMNS  FROM  THE  RIG- 
AND  ATHARVA-VEDAS,. 

421.  Introductory  remarks. 

422.  (1)  Hymn  to  Aranyam,  R.V.  x.  146. 

424.  (2)  R.V.  ix.  112,  on  the  variety  of  human  rims. 

425.  ^(3)  R.V.  x.  34,  the  gambler's  lament,  with  quotations  from  the 

A.V.  regarding  the  prevalence  of  gaming. 
431.      (4)  R.V.  x.  117,  in  praise  of  liberality. 
433.      (5)  R.V.  x.  107,  in  praise  of  liberality  to  priests. 
435.      (6)  R.V.  vii.   103,   Frogs  reviving  in  the  autumn,  compared 

to  Brahmans  celebrating  their  rites. 

438.  (7.,)  A.V.  vii.  12,  relating  to  social  meetings. 

439.  n(8)  A.V.  j,ii.  30,  incantation  for.cAncoyd  in  a  family. 

440.  (9)  A.V.  v-,  30,  incantation  to  preserve  the  life  of  <l  sick  man, 

or  recall  the  spirit  of  a  dead  man. 

442.  (10)  A.V.  vii.  53,  on  the  same  subject. 

443.  (11)  A.V.  viii.  1,      „ 

446.    (12)  A.V.  viii.  2,      „         „         „      , 

450—473.  SECTION  XXIII.  BRIEF  "NOTES  ON  SOCIETY  AND  LIFE  IN- 

THE  VEDIC  AGE,  AS  REPRESENTED  IN  THE  HYMNS. 

450.  (1)  The  country  occupied  by  the  Vedic  people,  their  villages 
and  cities. 


xiv  CONTENTS.  ^ 

c 
451.      (2)  Their  religious  worship. 

453.  (3)  Did  the  Vedic  Indians  make  images  of  their  gods  ? 

454.  (4)  Kings  and  principalities. 

457.  (5)  Different  ranks  in  society, — rich  and  poor;  (6)  Domestic 
relations,  polygamy,  remarriage,  of  widows,  freedom  of 
women,  levirical  marriages,  sexual  immorality.^ 

461.      (7)  Dress,  ornaments,  etc.         » 

463.  (8)  Food  and  drink ;  use  pf  wine. 

464.  (9)  Professions  and  trades, — carpentry,  agriculture,  etc. 

466.  (10)  Amusements,  gambling,  dancers>  or  actors ;  (11)  Crime. 

467.  (12)  Animals,  wild  and  tame. 

469.    (13)  "Wars,  armies,  armour,  and  weapons. 

472.  (14)  Poetry  and  speculation. 

473.  (15)  Conclusion. 

474.  APPENDIX. 
479.  INDEX. 


EEEATA   ET    CORRIGENDA. 


Tage  22  In  the  page-headings  from  here  to  p.  96,  for  "The  Indian  gods  generally  " 

substitute  the  headings  of  the  several  subsections. 

Page  34,  line  I,  for  "Gau"  read  "Go." 

,,     36,  „     4,  for  "  stanah  "  read  "  sthanah." 

„    46,  „  19,  for  "Varunauta"  read  "Varuna  uta." 

„     57,  „     7,  for  "51"  read  "5." 

„     62,  „  10,  for  " sindhave"  read  "sindhavo." 

„     —  „  11,  for  "praa  rnamsi"  read  "pra  arnamsi." 

„     63,  „  10,  after  "foolish"  insert  "vii.  61,  5." 

„     67,  „  28,  for  "let  us  seek "  read  "  we  seek." 

„     77,  „     l,/or"v."  read"\i." 

„    85,  „     3  from  bottom,  after  "  Indra  "  insert  "  vi.  21,  4." 

„     93,  „     V»  from  bottom,  for  "jaghrusho  "  read  "jaghnusho." 

„     98,  „     8  from  bottom, /or  "(5)"  read"(6a)". 

»  10^,  „        last  line,  for  "  tivram  "  read  "  tivram." 

„  134,  ,,     6  from  bottom,  for  "dare"  read  "brave." 

„  1 70,  „     2,  for  "  Savita  "  read  "  Savita." 

,,199,  „     I,  for  "xiii."  read  "  Taila." 

„  200,  „  10,  for  «'  92  "  read  "  91." 

„  214,  „     9,  for  "  rodasysh  "  read  "  rodasyoh." 

„  218,  ,,     4  from  bottom,  for  "  viii."  read  "  vii." 

„  224,  „  10,  for  "vrischad"  read  "vris'chad." 

„  225,  V>  22,/or"Tvashta"rea^"Tvashta." 

,,228^  „     5  froft  bottom,  for  "  Vivasvat  >ts>-fe^  <(tVivasvat." 

,,234,  „     3,/or 'SSurya"  rm«?  "SQrya." 

„  237,  „  16,/or"Pushan"««<f"Pushan;" 

„  280,  „    8,for!'z"  read"*.." 

„  284,  „  24,  for  "  191,"  read  "  91." 

,,336,  „     1,/or  "xxi."  read"xiz." 

„  350,  „  21,  after  "quoted"  insert  "above,  p.  59,  and." 

„  354,  „     4  from  bottom,  for  "  X^TJ  T  wi4J  "  read  "  •%&  ri 

„  387,  „  27,/w  "  19,"  read  "  1,  9." 

„  407,  „  21,  for  "  54"  rearf  "53." 


i 
c 


ORIGINAL   SANSKRIT   TEXTS. 


p 

FIFTH. 


INTKODUCTIOET. 

IN  the  Fourth  Volume  of  this  work  I  have  collected  the  principal 
passages  of  the  Vedic  Hymns  which  refer  to  the  origin  of  the  uni- 
verse, and  to  the  characters  of  the  gods  Hiranyagarbha,  Visvakarman, 
Vishnu,  Rudra,  and  the  goddess  Ambika;  and  have  compared  the 
representations  there  given  of  these  deities  with  the  later  stories 
and  speculations  on  the  same  subjects  which  are  to  be  found  in  the 
Brahmanas,  and  in  the  mythological  poems  of  a  more  modern  date. 
In  the  course  of  these  researches,  I  have  also  introduced  occasional 
notices  of  some  of  the  other  Vedic  deities,  such  as  Aditi,  Indra, 
Varuna,  etc.  3 

In  the  present  volume  I  propose  to  give  a  further  account  of  the 
cosmogony,  mythology,  and  religious  ide^as  exhibited  in  the  hymns  of 
the  Rig-veda,1  and  to  compare  these  occasionally  with  the  correspond- 
ing conceptions  of  the  early  Greeks.  • 

1  This  subject  has  been  already  treated  by  Professor  Roth  in  his  dissertations  on 
"  The  Legend  of  Jerashid"  and  on  "  The  Highest  Gods  of  the  Arian  Races,"  in  the 
Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  iv.  417  ff.  and  n.  67  ff. ;  by  the  same  writer, 
and  by  Professor  Whitney,  in  the  Journal  of  the  American  Oriental  Society,  iii.  291  ff., 
and  331  ff. ;  by  Professor  Roth  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  vii. 
607  ff. ;  by  Professor  Max  Miiller  in  the  Oxford  Essays  for  1856  (reprinted  in  Chips 
from  a  German  "Workshop,  vol.  ii.  pp.  1  ff.),  and  in  his  History  of  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit. 
pp.  531  ff. ;  by  Professor  "Wilson  in  the  Prefaces  to  the  three  vols.  of  his  translation 
of  the  Rig-veda ;  by  M.  Langlois  in  the  notes  to  his  French  translation  of  the  Rig- 

1 


o 

2  INTRODUCTION.  c 

i 

- 
(1)  Affinities  of  the  Indian  and  Grecian  mythologies. 

In  the  Second  Volume  of  this  work  I  have  stated  the  reasons, 
drawn  from  history  and  from  comparative  philology,  which  exist  for 
concluding  that  the  Brahmanical  Indians  belong  to  the  same  race 
as  the  Greek,  the  Latin,  the  Teutonic,  and  other  nations  of  Europe. 
If  this  conclusion  be  well-founded,  iixis  evident  that  at  me  time  when 
the  several  branches  of  the  g^eat  Indo-European  family  separate^  to 
commence  their  migrations  in  the  direction  of  their  future  homes,  they 
must  have  possessed  in  common  a  large  ctock  of  religious  and  mytho- 
logical conceptions.  This  common  mythology  would,  in  the  natural 
course  of  events,  and  from  the  action  of  various  causes,  undergo  a 
gradual  modification  analogous  to  that  undergone  by  the  common 
language  which  had  originally  been  spoken  by  all  these  tribes  during 
the  period  of  their  union ;  ,and,  in  the  one  case  as  in  the  other,  this 
modification  would  assume  in  the  different  races  a  varying  character, 
corresponding  to  the  diversity  of  the  influences  to  which  they  were 
severally  subjected.  "We  shall  not,  therefore,  be  surprised  to  find  that 
even  the  oldest  existing  mythology  of  the  Indians  differs  widely  from 
the  oldest  known  mythology  of  the  Greeks,  any  more  than  T.  e  are  to 
find  that  the  Sanskrit  in  its  earliest  surviving  forms  is  a  very  different 
language  from  the  earliest  extant  Greek,  since  the  Vedic  hymns,  the 
most  primitive  remains  of  Sanskrit  poetry,  date  from  a  period  when 
the  two  kindred  races  had  been  separated  for  perhaps  above  a  thousand 
years,  and  the  most  ancient  monuments  of  Greek  literature  are  still 
more  recent. r  Yet,  notwithstanding  this  long  separation,  we  might 
reasonably  anticipate  that  pome  fragments  of  the  primitive  Indo- 
European  mythology  should  have  remained  common  to  both  the  eastern 
and  the  western  branches  of  ^the  family  ;  wiiile,  at  the  same  time,  we 
should,  of  course,  expect  that  such  traces  of  common  religious  con- 
ceptions would  be  more  distinctly  perceptible  in  the  older  than  in  the 
more  recent  literary  productions  of  the  several  peoples.  And  such,  in 
point  of  fact,  turns  out  to  be  the  case.  The  mythology  of  the  Veda 

veda ;  by  Professor  "Weber,  and  by  Drs.  Kuhn  and  Biihler,  etc.  etc.  The  substance 
of  some  of  the  following  sections  is  repeated  or  condensed  in  a  paper  which  I  read 
before  the  Royal  Society  of  Edinburgh  in  1864.  See  the  Transactions  of  that  Society, 
vol.  xxiii.  part  iii.  pp.  547  ff. 


INTRODUCTION.  3 

does  exhibit  in  some  points  a  certain  similarity  to  that  of  Homer  and 
Hesiod,  and  the  mutual  resemblance  between  the  religious  ideas  of  those 
ancient  works  is,  upon  the  whole,  greater  than  that  existing  between 
the  later  Indian  and  the  Greek  pantheons.  I  say  that,  upon  the  whole, 
the  older  Indian  mythotygy  coincides  more  nearly  with  the  Greek  than 
the  later  Indkn,  mythology  does.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  the  later 
Indian  system  presents  some  points  of  resemblance  with  the  Greek  which 
the  Vadic  system  does  not  exhibit.  I  allude  to  the  fact  that  we  find 
in  the  Indian  epic  poems  and  Puranas  a  god  of  the  sea,  a  god  of  war, 
and  a  goddess  of  lovo,  who(Jhe  last  two,  at  least,)  are  unknown  to  the 
oldt- st  parts  of  the  Veda,  and  yet  correspond  in  a  general  way  to  the 
Poseidon,  the  Ares,  and  the  Aphrodite  of  the  Greeks.  Personifications 
of  this  sort  may,  however,  be  either  the  product  of  an  early  instinct 
which  leads  men  to  create  divine  representatives  and  superintendents 
of  every  department  of  nature,  as  well  as  of  human  life  and  action ;  or 
they  may  arise  in  part  from  a  later  process  of  imagination  or  reflection 
which  conducts  to  the  same  result,  'and  from  a  love  of  systematic  com- 
pleteness which  impels  a  people  to  fill  up  any  blanks  in  their  earlier 
mythology,  and  to  he  always  adding  to*  and  modifying  it.  'Re- 
semblanf,es  of  this  last  description,  though  they  a"re  by  no  means 
accidental,  are  not  necessarily  anything  more  than  the  results  of 
similar  processes  going  on  in  nations  possessing  the  same  general 
tendencies  and  characteristics.  But  the  older  points  of  coincidence 
between  the  religious  ideas  of  the  Greeks  and  the  Indians,  to  which 
reference  was  first  made,  are  of  a  different  character,  and  are  the  un- 
doubted remains  of  an  original  mythology  which  was  Common  to  the 
ancestors  of  both  races.  This  is  shown  by  the  fact  that,  in  the 
cases  to  which  I  allude,  it  is  not  only  the  functions,  but  the  names> 
of  the  gods  which  correspond  in  both  literatures. 

(2)  Antiquity  and  peculiarity  of  the  Vedic  mythology. 

But  the  value  of  the  Vedic  mythology  to  rche  general  scholar  does 
not  consist  merely  in  the  circumstance  tfeat  a  few  religious  conceptions, 
and  the  names  of  two  or  three  deities,  are  common  to  it  with  the 
Greek.  It  is  even  more  important  to  observe  that  the  earliest  monu- 
ments of  Indian  poetry,  consisting,  as  they  do,  almost  exclusively  of 


• 
4  INTRODUCTION. 

hymns  in  praise  of  the  national  deities,  and  being  the  productions  of 
an  age  far  anterior  to  that  of  Homer  and  Hesiod,  represent  a  more 
ancient  period  of  religious  development  than  we  discover  in  the  Greek 
poets,  and  disclose  to  us,  in  the  earliest  stages  of  formation,  a  variety  of 
myths  which  a  few  centuries  later  had  assumed  a  fixed  and  recognised 
form.2  It  is  also  to  be  noticed  that,  from  the  copiousness  of  the  ma- 
terials they  supply,  the  hymns  of  the  E-ig-veda  furnish  us  with  far  more 
minute  illustrations  of  the  natural  workings  of  the  human  mind,  in  the 
period  of  its  infancy,  upon  matters  of  religion  than  we  can  find  in  any 
other  literature  whatever.  From  their  higher  antiquity,  these  Indian 
hymns  are  also  fitted  to  throw  light  on  the  meaning  of  a  few  points  of 
the  Greek  system,  which  were  before  obscure.  Thus,  as  we  shall  see, 
the  Indian  Dyaus  (sky,  or  heaven)  explains  the  original  meaning  of 
the  Greek  Zeus,  and  the  Sanskrit  Varuna  gives  a  clue  to  the  proper 
signification  of  Ouranos. 

As  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  2nd  edition,  pp.  2-4,3  I  have 
stated  the  grounds  on  which  the  Vedic  hymns  are  assumed  to  have 
been  composed  at  a  period  considerably  more  than  a  thousand  years 
before  our  era,  I  shall  here  take  their  great  antiquity  for  granted,  and 
proceed  to  give  some  account  of  their  cosmogony  and  mythology. 

(3)   Origin  of  cosmogonic  and  mythological  speculation. 

To  a  simple  mind  reflecting,  in'  the  early  ages  of  the  world,  on  the 
origin  of  all  things,  various  solutions  of  the  mystery  might  naturally 
present  themselves.  Sometimes  the  production  of  the  existing  universe 
would  be  ascribed  to  physical,  and  at  other  times  to  spiritual,  powers. 
On  the  one  hand,  the  various  processes  of  growth  and  change  vfhich  are 
constantly  visible  in  all  the  departments  of  nature  might  have  suggested 
the  notion  of  the  world  having  gradually  arisen  out  of  nothing,  or  out 
of  a  pre-existing  undeveloped  substance.  Slich  an  idea  of  the  spontan- 
eous evolution  of  all  things  out  of  a  primeval  principle,  or  out  of  indis- 
crete matter,  called Prakriti,  became  at  a  later  period  the  foundation  of  the 
Sankhya  philosophy.  Or,  again,  perceiving  light  and  form  and  colour 

2  See  Professor  Max  Miiller's  essny  on  "  Comparative  Mythology,"  in  the  Oxford 
Essays  for  1856,  p.  47.  and  the  reprint  in  Chips  from  a  German  Workshop,  p.  75  f. 
»  See  also  Vol.  II.  pp.  206  ff.  and  Vol.  111.  2nd  ed.  217  f.  and  224. 


•  INTRODUCTION.  5 

• 

and  beauty  emerge  slowly  every  morning  out  of  a  gloom  in  which  all 
objects  had  before  appeared  to  be  confounded,  the  early  speculator 
might  conceive  that  in  like  manner  the  brightness  and  order  of  the 
world  around  him  had  sprung  necessarily  o«t  an  antecedent  night  in 
which  the  elements  of  afl  things  had  existed  together  in  indistinguish- 
able chaos. »  And*,  in  fact,  this  idea  of  the  universe  having  arisen  out 
of  ^darkness  and  chaos  is  the  doctrine  of  one  of  the  later  hymns  of  the 
R.Y.  (x.  129).  Or,  on  the  other  haad,  contemplating  the  results 
effected  by  human  design  and  energy,  and  arguing  from  the  less  to  the 
greater,  or  rather  impelled  By  an  irresistible  instinct  to  create  other 
beings  after  his  own  likeness,4  but  endowed  with  higher  powers,  the 
ancient  thinker  might  feel  that  the  well-ordered  frame  of  nature  could 
not  possibly  have  sprung  into  being  from  any  blind  necessity,  but  must 
have  been  the  work  of  a  conscious  and  intelligent  will.  In  this  stage  of 
thought,  however,  before  the  mind  had  risen  to  the  conception  of  one 
supreme  creator  and  governor  of  al^  things,  the  various  departments  of 
nature  were  apportioned  between  different  gods,  each  of  whom  was  im- 
gined  to  preside  over  his  own  especial  domain.  But  these  domains  were 
imperfectly  defined.  One  blended  with  another,  and  ngght  thus  be  sub- 
ject, in  p*art,  to  the  rule  of  more  than  one  deity.  Or,  according  to  the 
various  relations  under  which  they  were  regarded,  these  several  pro- 
vinces of  the  creation  might  be  subdivided  among  a  plurality  of 
divinities,  or  varying  forms  of  the  same  divinity.  These  remarks 
might  be  illustrated  by  numerous  instances  drawn  from  the  Yedic 
mythology.  In  considering  the  literary  productions  of  this  same 
period,  we  further  find  that  as  yet  the  difference  between  mind  and 
matter  w^is  but  imperfectly  conceived,  ant?  tb#t,  although,  in  some 
cases,  the  distinction,  between  some  particular  province  of  nature  and 
the  deity  who  was  supposed  to  preside  6Ver  it  was  clearly  discerned, 
yet  in  other  instances  the  two  things  were  confounded,  and  the  same 
visible  object  was  at  different  times  regarded  diversely,  as  being  either 
a  portion  of  the  inanimate  universe,  or  an  anynated  being,  and  a  cos- 

4  Arist.  Pol.  i.  2,  7.  Kal  rovs  Oeovs  Sf  8<a  rcDro  irdvres  (paffl  jSao-jXeueo-Oaj,  Sri 
Kal  avrol  01  fj.ev  en  Kal  vvv,  61  8e  rb  apxouov  ffta<Ti\evovro-  Sxrirep  Se  Kal  ra  eiSrj 
favrois  atyo/j.oiova'U'  01  avdpcairoi,  ovrca  Kal  rovs  fiiovs  rwv  Oecav.  "  And  all  men 
represent  the  gods  as  being  ruled  by  a  king,  because  they  themselves,  either  now,  or 
formerly,  were  so  governed.  And  just  as  men  regard  the  forms,  so  also  they  consider 
the  lives,  of  the  gods,  to  be  similar  to  their  own." 


0  INTRODUCTION. 

u 

raical  power.  Thus,  in  the  Yedic  hymns,  the  sun,  the  sky,  and  the 
earth,  are  severally  considered,  sometimes  as  natural  objects  governed 
by  particular  gods,  and  sometimes  as  themselves  gods  who  generate  and^ 
control  other  beings.  i- 

4. 

£• 

(4)   Variety  in  the  conceptions  of  the  Vedic  poets. 

The  varieties  and  discrepancies  which  are  in  this  way  incident  to  all 
nature-worship,  are,  in  the  case  of  the  Vedic  mythology,  augmented 
by  the  number  of  the  poets  by  whom  it  tras  moulded,  and  the  length 
of  time  during  which  it  continued  in  process  of  formation. 

The  Rig-veda  consists  of  more  than  a  thousand  hymns,  composed  by 
successive  generations  of  poets  during  a  period  of  many  centuries.  In 
these  songs  the  authors  gave  expression  not  only  to  the  notions  of  the 
supernatural  world  which  th/?y  had  inherited  from  their  ancestors,  but 
also  to  theft  own  new  conceptions.  In  that  early  age  the  imaginations 
of  men  were  peculiarly  open  to  impressions  from  without;  and  in  a 
country  like  India,  where  the  phenomena  of  nature  are  often  of  the 
most  striking  description,  such  spectators  could  not  fail  to  be  over- 
powered by  their  influence.  The  creative  faculties  of  the  pflets  were 
thus  stimulated  to  the  highest  pifch.  In  the  starry  sky,  in  the  dawn, 
in  the  morning  sun  scaling  the  heavens,  in  the  bright  clouds  floating 
across  the  air  and  assuming  all  manner  of  magnificent  or  fantastic 
shapes,  in  the  waters,  in  the  rain,  in  the  storm,  in  the  thunder  and 
lightning,  they  beheld  the  presence  and  agency  of  different  divine  powers, 
propitious  or  afagry,  whose  characters  corresponded  with  those  of  the 
physical  operations  or  apper.rances  in  which  they  were  manifested.  In 
the  hymps  composed  under  the  influence  of  any  grand  phenomena,  the 
authors  would  naturally  ascribe  a  peculiar  or  exclusive  importance  to 
the  deities  by  whose  action  these  appeared  to  have  >been  produced,  and 
would  celebrate  their  greatness  with  proportionate  fervour.  Other 
poets  might  attribute  the  same  natural  appearances  to  the  agency  of 
other  deities,  whose  greatness  they  would  in  like  manner  extol ;  while 
others  again  would  devote  themselves  in  preference  to  the  service  of 
some  other  god  whose  working  they  seemed  to  witness  in  some  other 
department  of  creation.  In  this  way,  while  the  same  traditional 
divinities  were  acknowledged  by  all,  the  power,  dignity,  and  functions 


»  INTRODUCTION.  7 

•  • 

• 
of  each  particular  god  might  be  differently  estimated  by  different  poets, 

or  perhaps  by  the  same  poet,  according  to  the  external  influences  by 
which  he  was  awed  or  inspired  on  each  occasion.  And  it  might  even 
happen  that  some  deity  who  had  formerly  remained  obscure,  would,  by 
the  genius  of  a  new  po§t  devoted  to  his  worship,  be  brought  out  into 
greater  prominence.  In  such  circumstances  it  need  not  surprise  us  if 
we  find  one  partipular  power  or,  deity  in  one  place  put  above,  and  in 
another  place  subordinated  to,  some  other  god ;  sometimes  regarded  as 
the  creator,  and  sometimes  as  the  created.  This  is  very  prominently 
illustrated  in  the  ca'se  of  $ie  Vedic  divinities,  Dyaus  and  PrithivT, 
Heaven  and  Earth,  to  which  the  second  Section  shall  be  devoted,  and 
by  other  instances  which  will  be  brought  to  light  in  the  following 
pages. 


SECTION    I. 

c 

THE    INDIAN   GODS   GENERALLY,   AS  REPRESENTED   IN  THE 
RIG-VEDA.  » 

Before  proceeding  to  offer  some  description  of  the  powers,  functions, 
characters,  and  mutual  relations  of  the  several  deities  celebrated  in 
the  Rig-veda,  I  shall  give  some  account  of  the  general  conceptions 
entertained  by  the  Yedic  poets  and  some  later  Indian  writers,  regard- 
ing their  classes,  numbers,  origin,  and  duration. 

(1)  Taska's  classification  of  the  gods. 

The  following  classification  of  the  Yedic  gods  is  adduced  by(JYaska  5 
in  his  Nirukta  (vii.  5),  as  being  that  given  by  the  ancient  expositors 
who  preceded  him :  Tisrah  era  devatdh  iti  Nairulctdh  Agnih  prithivl- 
sthdno  Vuyur  vd  Indro  vd  antariksha-sthdnah  Suryo  dyu-sthdnah  \ 
tdsdm  mdhabhdgydd  eTcailcasydh  r  a/pi  lahuni  ndmadheydni  lhavanti 
api  vd  karma-prithaktvdd  yathd  hotd  adhvaryur  Irahmd  udgdtd  ity 
apy  ekasya  satah  \  api  vd  prithag  eva  syuh  \  prithag  hi  stutayo  bhavanti 
tathd  alhidhdndni  \  "  There  are  three  deities  according  to  the  ex- 

n,  • 

pounders  of  the  Yeda  ('Hairufitdh'),  viz.  Agni,  whose  place  is7  on  the 
earth;  Yayu,  or  Indra,  whose  place  is  in  tfre  aif;    and  Surya  (the 

0 

sun),  whose  place  is  in   the  sky.6      These  deities  receive  severally 

many  appellations,  in  consequence  of  their  greatness,  or  of  the  diversity 

rof  their  functions,  as  the  names  of  hotri,  adhvaryu,  brahman,  and  ud- 

*  For  some  account  of  Yaska's  work  see  the  second  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  162  and 
173,  and  my  article  "  On  the  Interpretation  of  the  Veda"  in  the  Journ.  R.  A.  S.  for 
1866,  pp.  319  ff. 

6  Compare  R.V.  x.  158,  1.  Suryo  no  divas  patu  Vato  antarikshat  \  Agnir  nah 
parthivebhyah  \  "  May  the  Sun  preserve  us  from  the  sky,  Vayu  from  the  air,  and 
Agni  from  things  on  earth." 


,    THE  INDIAN  G?ODS  AS  REPRESENTED  IN  THE  RIG-VEDA.  9 


triy  are  applied  to  one  and  the  same  person,  [according  to  the  parti- 
cular sacrificial  office  which  he  happens  to  be  fulfilling].  Or  these  gods 
taay  all  be  distinct,  for  the  praises  addressed  to  them,  and  also  their 
appellations,  are  distinct.  "  7*  Pursuing  thje  triple  classification  here 
indicated,  Yaska  proceeds  in  the  latter  part  of  his  work  to  divide  the 
different  deities,  'or  forms  of  the  same  deities,  specified  in  the  fifth 
chapter  of  the  Naighantuka  or»Vocabulary,  which  is  prefixed  to  his 
work,  into  the  three  orders  of  terrestrial  (Nirukta  vii.  14-ix.  43), 
intermediate  or  aerial  (x.  1-xi.  50),  and  celestial  (xii.  1-46).  I 
shall  not  reproduce  these  lists,  which  could  not  in  some  places  be 
thoroughly  understood  without  explanation,  as  they  include  several 
deities  whose  precise  character  and  identification  with  other  divinities 
are  disputed,  and  embrace  a  number  of  objects  which  are  not  gods  at 
all,  but  are  constructively  regarded  as  such  from  their  being  addressed 
in  the  hymns.8  , 

«  (2)  Their  number. 

» 

The  gods  are  spoken  of  in  various  texts  of  the  Sig-veda  as  being 
thirty-three  in  number.  Thus  it  is  said  in  R.V.  i.  34,  11:  "Come 

7  This  passage  is  quoted  more  at  length  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  133  ff. 

8  The  following  is  the  manner  in  which  Yaska  classifies  the  hymns.     I  quote  the 
classification  as  interesting,  though  unconnected  with  my  present  subject  :  —  He  divides 
(Nir.  vii.  1)  the  hymns,  or  portions  of  hymns,  devoted  to  the  praise  of  the  gods  into 
three  classes,  viz.  (1)  those  fti  which  the  gods  are  addressed  in  the  third  person  as 
absent,  as  "  Indra  rules  over  heaven  and  earth"  (x.  89,  10),  etc.  ;  (£)  those  which  ad- 
dress them  in*  the  second  person  as  present,  such  as  "  0  Indra,  slay  thou  our  enemies  " 
(x.  152,  4$,  etc.  ;  and  £3)  those  in  which  the  author  speaks  in  the  first  person,  and 
about  himself.     Of  these,  the  first  two  classes  are  the  most  numerous.     Ag^in  some  of 
the  hymns  are  merely  laudatory,  as,  "  I  declare^the  valorous  deeds  of  Indra,"  R.V. 
i.  32,  1  ;  others  contain  prayers,  not  praises,  as,  "  may  I  see  clearly  with  my  eyes,  be 
radiant  in  my  face,  ana  hear  distinctly  with  my  ears."    Again,  there  are  imprecations, 
as,  "may  I  die  to-day,  if  I  am  a  Yutudhana"  (vii.  104,  15),  etc.   Again,  a  particular 
state  of  things  is  described,  as,  "there  was  then  neither  death  nor  immortality" 
(x.  129,  2).    Again,  a  lamentation  is  uttered,  as,  "  thfc  bright  god  will  fly  away  and 
never  return"  (x.  95,  15).     Or,  praise  and  blame  are  expressed,  as,  "he  who  eats 
alone,  is  alone  in  his  guilt"  (x.  117,  6),  and  "  the  house  of  the  liberal  man  is  like  a 
pond  where  lotuses  grow"  (x.  107,  10)  ;  and  in  the  same  way,  in  the  hymn  to  Dice, 
gambling  is  reprehended,  and  agriculture  praised  (x.  34,  13).  "  Thus  the  views  with 
which  the  rishis  beheld  the  hymns  were  very  various."     The  original  text  of  most 
of  tiiis  passage  will  be  found  in  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  211. 


10  THE  INDIAN  GODS   GENEEALLl, 

(. 
hither,  Nasatyas,  Asvins,   together  with  the  thrice  eleven  gods,9  to 

drink  our  nectar"  (a  ndsatyd  tribhir  eTcddasair  iha  devebhir  ydtam 
madhupeyam  Asvind). 

Again,  in  i.  45,  2  :  "  Agni,  the  wise  gads  lend  an  ear  to  their  wor- 
shipper. God  with  the  ruddy  steeds,  who  lovost  praise,  hring  hither 
those  three  and  thirty  "  (srushtivdno  hi  ddsushe  devdh  <Agne  yichetasah  \ 
tan  rohidasva  girvanas  trayastrimsatan^d  vaha).  , 

i.  139,  11  (=Taitt.  S.  i.  4,  If),  1).  "Ye  gods,  who  are  eleven  in  the 
sky,  who  are  eleven  on  earth,  and  who  in  your  glory10  are  eleven 
dwellers  in  the  (atmospheric)  waters,  do  ye  welcome  this  our  offering  " 
(ye  devdso  dim  eTcddasa  stha  prithivydm  adhi  eTcddasa  stha  \  apsukshito 
mahind  eTcddasa  stha  te  devdso  yajnam  imamjmhadhvani). 

iii.  6.  9.  "  Agui  hring  hither  according  to  thy  wont  and  gladden  the 
three  and  thirty  gods  with  their  wives"  (patmvatas  trimsatam  trims 
cha  devdn  anushvadham  dvaha  mddayasva). 

viii.  28,  1.  "May  the  three  over  thirty  gods  who  have  visited  our 
sacrificial  grass,  recognize  us,  and  give  us  double"  n  (ye  trimsati  tray  as 
paro  devdso  larhir  dsadan  \  vidann  aha  dvitd  'sanan). 

viii.  30,  2.  "Ye  who  are  the  three  and  thirty  gods  worshipped  by 

(  * 

Manu  (or  man),  when  thus  praised,  may  ye  become  the  destroyers  of 
our  foes"  (iti  stutdso  asatha  risddaso  ye  stha  tray  as  cha  trimsach  cha  \ 
manor  devdh  yajniydsah}. 

viii.  35,  3.  "  Asvins,  associated  with  all  the  thrice  eleven  gods,  with 
the  Waters,  the  Haruts,  the  Bhrigus,  and  united  with  the  Dawn  and 
the  Sun,  drink  the  soma"  (visvair  devais  tribfy'r  eTcddasair  iha  adbhir 
marudlhir  Bhnigulhih  sachtibhuvd  \  sajoshasd  Ushasd  Suryena  cha 
somam  pibata  Asvina].  p.  (  , 


is,  as  Sayana  explains,  those  included  in  the  three  classes,  consisting  each 
gods,  specified  in  the  verse  (i.  139,  11),  "Ye  eleven  gods  who  exist  in  the 


9  That 
of  eleven 
sky,"  etc. 

10  On  this  Sayana^  remarks,  "  Although,  according  to  the  text,  '  There  are  only 
three  gods,'  (Nirukta,  vii.  5),  the  deities  who  represent  the  earth,  etc.,  are  but  three, 
still  through  their  greatness,  ife,  their  respective  varied  manifestations,  they  amount 
to   thirty-three,   according  to  the  saying,  '  other  manifestations  of  Him  exist  in 
different  places.'"     Compare  S'p.  ir.  xi.  6,  3,  4ff.      The  Atharva-veda  (x.  9,  12) 
divides  the  gods  into  dwellers  in  the  sky,  air,  and  earth  (ye  devah  divishado  antariksha- 
sadas  cha  ye  ye  cha  ime  bhumyam  adhi).     And  the  same  Veda  i.  30,  3,  speaks  of  the 
gods  who  dwell  in  the  sky,  on  earth,  in  the  air,  in  plants,  animals,  and  waters  (ye 
devah  dim  stha  ye  prilhivycim  ye  antariJcshe  oshadfitshu  pasushu  apsu  antah). 

11  Eoth  says  that  dvita  does  not  mean  double,  but  assuredly,  especially. 


•  AS  REPRESENTED  IN  THE  RIG-VEDA.  11 

• 

ix.  92,  4.  "0  pure  Soma,  all  these  gods,  thrice  eleven  in  number, 
are  in  thy  secret,"  etc. 12,  (tava  te,  Soma  pavamdna  ninye  visve  devds  tray  ah 
ekddasd). 

This  number  of  thirty-thi-ee  gods  is  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana 
(iv.  5,  7,  2)  explained 'as  made  up  of  8  Vasus,  11  Rudras,  and  12 
Adityas,  together  with  Dyaus  and  Prithivi  (Heaven  and  Earth),  while 
Pr,ajapati  makes  a  thirty-fourth°(asAtaw  Vasavah  ekddasa  Rudrdh  dvd- 
dasa  Aditydh  ime  eva  dydvd-prithivl  tr&yastriihsyau  \  trayastrimsad  vai 
devdh  |  Prajdpatis  chatmtriihsah).  Or,  according  to  another  passage 
(xi.  6,  3,  5),  the  thirty-thrde  are  made  up  in  the  same  manner  with 
the  exception  of  Indra  and  Prajapati,  who  are  substituted  for  Heaven 
and  Earth  (ie  eltatrimsad  Indras  chaiva  Prajdpatis  cha  trayastriffisau}.13 

This  enumeration  could  scarcely  have  been  the  one  contemplated  in 
the  hymns,  as  we  have  seen  that  one  of  the  texts  above  quoted  (R.V.  i. 
139, 11)  assigns  eleven  deities,  who  mustsprobably  have  been  all  of  the 
same  class,  to  each  of  the  three  spheres,  sky,  air,  and  earth.11  It  is 

12  This  number  of  thirty-three  gods  is  referred  to  in  a  hymn  to  the  sun  in  the 
Mahabharata  iii.  171,  as  joining  in  the  worship  of, that  deity  :  Tray  as  trims' ach  cha 
vai  devah.     See  also  v.  14019  and  15465  of  the  same  third  book;  book  iv.  1769, 
and  boo^  xiii.  7102.      According  to  the  Ramayana,  AranyaKanda  14,  14  f.  (Bom- 
bay ed.)  Aditi  was  the  mother  of  thirty-three  gods,  Adityas,  Vasus,  and  Rudras,  and 
of  the  two  As'vins  (Adityam  jajnire  devas  trayastrimsad  arindama  \  Adityah  Vasavo 
Rudrah  Asvinau  cha  parantapa}.     In  Gorresio's  edit,  the  verse  occurs  in  20,  15. 
See  also  the  S'p.  Br.  xii.  8,  3,  29.  The  Taittiriya  Sanhita,  ii.  3,  5,  1,  says  that  Praja- 
pati had  thirty-three  daughters,  whom  he  jave  in  marriage  to  Soma.     The  A.V.  xi. 
3,  52,  says  that  Prajapati  made  thirty-three  worlds  out  of  the  odana  oblation.     See 
also  R.V.  viii.  39,  9,  Valakhilya,  9,  2.    The  Aitareya  Brahmana,  ii.  18,  says :  trayas- 
trimsad vai  devah  somapas  trayastrimsad  asomapah  \  ashtau  Vasavah  ekadasa  Rudrah 
dvadasa  Adltycih  Prajapatis  cha  Vashatkaras  cha  ete  devah  somapah  \  ekadasa  praya- 
jah  ekada/a  anuyajah'gkadasa  upayajah  ete  asoitiUpSh  pa%u-bhajanah  \  somena  somapun 
prlnati pasuna  asomapan  \  "  Thirty-three  gods  are  drinkers  of  Soma,  and  thirty-three  are 
not.    The  eight  Vasus,  the  eleven  Rudras,  the  twelve  Adityas,  Prajapati  and  Vashat- 
kara  are  the  soma-drinkers.     The  eleven  Prayajas,  the  eleven  Anuyajas,  and  the 
eleven  Upayajas  are  ^hose  who  do  not  drink  it,  but  receive  animal  sacrifices.    He 
(the  sacrificer)  satiates  the  soma-drinkers  with  soma,  and  those  who  do  not  drink  it 
with  animal-sacrifices."     For  an  explanation  of  the  terms  praycija,  anuyaja,  and"  upa-  > 
yaja  see  Professor  Haug's  translation  of  the  Ait.  Br.  rk  110,  notes. 

13  Compare  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  7,  2,  4.     In  the  sequel  of  the  above  passage  (S'atap.  Br. 
xi.  6,  3,  6)  Dyaus,  Prithivi,  and  Aditya  are  said  to  be  included  among  the  Vasus. 
So  that  it  is  clear  there  is  no  consistency  in  these  accounts. 

14  On  this  division  of  the  universe  into  three  domains,  see  the  remarks  of  Professor 
Roth  in  his  dissertation  on  "The  Highest  Gods  of  the  Arian  Races."     Jour.  Germ. 
Or.  Society,  1852,  p.  68. 


12  THE  INDIAN  GODS   GENERALLY,  «. 

i 

also  clear  that  this  number  of  thirty-three  gods  could  not  have  em- 
braced the  whole  of  the  Vedic  deities,  as  in  some  of  the  preceding  texts 
Agni,  the  Asvins,  and  the  Maruts  are  separately  specified,  as  if  distinct 
from  the  thirty-three.  Farther,  Indra  6ould  not  have  been,  in  the 
opinion  of  the  author  of  the  Brahmana,  at  lefist  as  expressed  in  this 
passage,  xi.  6,  3,  5,  one  of  the  twelve  Adityas  (as  he 'was  regarded  at 
a  later  period),  since  he  is  separately  specified  as  making  up  the 
number  of  thirty-three  gods,  c 

In  the  E.V.  iii.  9,  9  (=  E.Y.  x.  52,  6  and  Vaj.  S.  33,  7)  the  gods 
are  mentioned  as  being  much  more  numerous :  "  Three  hundred,  three 
thousand,  thirty  and  nine  gods  have  worshipped  Agni,"15  etc.  (trlni 
&atd  tn  sahasrdni  Agnim  trimsack  cha  devdh  nava  cha  asaparyari}. 

In  another  passage  (i.  27,  13)  the  gods  are  spoken  of  as  divided  into 
great  and  small,  young  and  old :  "  Eeverence  to  the  great,  reverence 
to  the  small :  reverence  to  the  young,  reverence  to  the  old.  Let  us 
worship  the  gods  if  we  are  able;  may  I  not,  o  gods,  neglect  the  praise 
of  the  greatest "  (namo  mahadbhyo  namo  arlhaJcebhyo  namo  yuvabhyo 
namah  dsinebhyah  \  yajdma  devdn  yadi  salcnavdma  na  jydyasah  samsam 
d  srikshi  devdh  |). 

I  am  not  aware,  however,  that  this  latter  classification  of  tne  gods 
is  alluded  to  in  any  other  of  the  hymns.  In  fact  this  distinction 
among  the  deities  is  denied  in  another  passage,  viii.  30,  1  :  na  hi  vo 
asti  arbkaJco  devdso  na  kumdraTcah  \  visve  satomahdntah  it  \  ("None  of 

you,  o  gods,  is  small  or  young :  you  are  all  great "). 

<•- 

(3)  Their  origin  and  immortality. 

f    c 
In  the  Eig-veda  the  gods  are  spoken  of  as  immortal 1G  (as  in  i.  24,  1  ; 

i.  72,  2, 10;  i.  189,  3;  iii.  4,  11  -f  iii.  21,  1;  iv.  41,  1;  vii.ll,  1;  vii.17,4; 
x.  13,  1  ;  x.  65,  15  ;  x.  69,  9 ;  x.  72,  5 ;  but  they  are  not  regarded  in 

15  The  commentator  remarks  here  that  the  number  of  the  gods  is  declared  in  the 
'  Brihad  Aranyaka  Upanishad.     See  pp.  642  ff.  of  the  text  of  this  Upanishad,  printed 

in  the  Bibl.  Ind. ;  and  pp.  205%  of  the  English  translation  in  the  same  series.  The 
same  passage  occurs  in  nearly  the  sarie  words  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xi.  6,  3, 
4  ff.  On  the  numbers  of  the  gods,  see  a  note  of  Professor  Haug  in  his  Aitareya  Brah- 
mana, ii.  212,  note,  and  the  remarks  by  Dr.  Kuhn  in  his  notice  of  this  paper  in  his 
Zeitschrift,  p.  223. 

16  In  the  Atharva-veda  i.  31,  1,  four  immortals  are  spoken  of  as  the  guardians  of 
the  four  quarters  of  the  sky  (asanam  asapalebhyas  chatwbhyo  amritebhyah]. 


AS  REPRESENTED  IN  THE  RIG-VEDA.  13 

• 

general  as  unbeginning  or  self-existent  beings.17  There  are,  as  -we  shall 
see  in  the  next  section,  many  passages  in  which  they  are  described  as 
Jbeing  the  offspring  of  Heaven  and  Earth.  In  i.  113,  19,  Ushas,  the 
Dawn,  is  characterized  as  the,  mother  of  the  gods  (devdndm  mutu] ;  in 
ii.  26,  3,  Brahmanaspatj.  is  called  their  father  (devdndm  pitaram) ;  in 
ix.  87,  2,  Soma  as  said  to  be  the  father  and  skilful  generator  of  the 
gods  (pita  devdndm  janitd  sudakshah;  see  also  ix.  42,  4;  ix.  86,  10; 
arid  ix.  109,  4) ;  in  ix.  96,  5,  the  same  deity  is  described  as  the  genera- 
tor of  Heaven,  Earth,  Agni,  Surya,  Indra,  and  Yishnu  (janitd  divo 
janitd  prithivydh  \  janitd  Agner  janitd  Suryasya  janitd  Indrasya  jani- 
tota  Fisfinoh} ;  in  x.  72,  5,  the  gods  are  declared  to  have  been  born 
after  Aditi  (turn  devdh  anv  ajdyanta);  in  x.  97,  1,  certain  plants  appear 
to  be  described  as  produced  three  ages  (yugas)  before  the  gods  (yah 
oshadhih  purvtih  jdidh  devebhyas  Iriyugam  purd} ;  whilst  in  x.  129,  6, 
the  gods  are  said  to  have  been  born  subsequently  to  the  creation  of  the 
universe,  so  that  in  consequence  no  one  'can  declare  its  origin  (arvdg 
devds  tasya  visarfanena  atha  Tco  veda-yatah  d  balhuva}.16  Yaruna,  Mitra, 
Aryaman,  Bhsga,  Daksha,  and  Amsa  are  designated,  in  R.Y.  ii.  27,  1, 
and  some  of  them  elsewhere,  as  Adityas,  or  sons  of  Aditi.  The  birth  of 
Indra  ^mentioned  in  various  texts,  and  his  father  aad  mother  alluded 
to,  though  not  generally  named 19  (iv.  17,  4,  12;  iv.  18,  5,  12;  viii.  45, 
4;  viii.  66,  1;  x.  134,  Iff.).  In  vi.  59,  1,  Indra  and  Agni  are  ad- 

17  This  is  not,  however,  admitted  by  Professor  Max  Miiller,  who  says  (Chips  from 
a  German  "Workshop,  i.  38)  "  passages  in  which  the  birth  of  certain  gods  is  men- 
.tioned  have  a  physical  meaning  :  they  refer  to  the  birth  of  the  day,  "the  rising  of  the 
sun,  the  return  of  the  year." 

18  In  the.Atharva-veda  xi.  7,  23,  all  the  gods  are  said  to  ha^e  been  born  from 
Uchchhishta  or  the  remains  of  the  oblation  (UcJitfihishtaj  jojnire  sarve  divi  devah 
divisritaft) ;  and  in  vetse  27  the  same  assertion  is  repeated  regarding  them  in  con- 
junction with  the  fathere,  men,,  Gandharvas,  and  Apsarases  (devah  pitaro  \ianushyah 
Gandharvapsarasas  cha  ye  \  uchchishtuj  jajnire  s$rve  divi  devah  divisritah}.  Compare 
Taitt.  Br.  iii.  12,  3,  2^3.     In  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  xiv.  2,  2,  2,  it  is  said :  Ayam 
vai  samudro  yo  'yam  pavate  \  etasmad  vai  samudrat   sarve   devah  sarvani  bhulani 
samuddravanti  \  "  This  which  is  purified  is  the  ocean  (samudra).     From  this  ocean 
all  the  gods,  all  creatures  issue  forth  "  (samuddravanli) .     The  gods  are  said  to  have 
been  born  in  pairs  according  to  a  passage  of  the  Taittinya  SamhitS  (vi.  5, 6),  referred 
to  by  Sayana  on  R.V.  viii.  72,  8.  * 

19  In  R.V.  x.  101,  12,  a  goddess  called  Nishtigrl  is  mentioned,  apparently  as  the 
mother  of  Indra  :  Nishtigryah  putram  a  cliavaya  utaye  Indram  \  "  draw  hither  Indra 
the  son  of  Nishtigri  to  aid  us,"  etc.    Sayana  on  this  passage  identifies  her  with  Aditi, 
viz. :  "  She  who  swallows  up  her  rival  wife  Kishti,  i.e.  Dili."     Indra  is  in  fact 


14  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY, 

dressed  in  these  words :  Hatdso  vdm  pitaro  devasatravah  Indrdgtii  jlvatho 
yuvdm  \  "  Your  fathers,  who  had  the  gods  for  foes,  have  been  slain,  o 
Indra  and  Agni;  but  you  survive."  But  in  the  next  verse  both  gods( 
are  said  to  have  had  one  generator  and  to  be  twin-brothers  (samdno  vdm 
janitd  Ihrdtard  yuvam  yamav  ihehamatard}.  The  A.V.  i.  30,  2,  speaks 
of  some  of  the  gods  as  being  fathers  and  others  as  being  sons  (ye  vo 
devdh  pitaro  ye  cha  putrdh  sachetaso  me  srinuta  idam  ulctatn).  See  also 
E,.Y.  x.  63,  2,  which  will  be  quoted  in  the  Section  on  Aditi. 

In  iv.  54,  2  (=Vaj.  S.  33,  5^)  it  is  said  that  Savitri  bestows  im- 
mortality, an  excellent  lot,  on  the  gods  (devebhyo  hi  prathamam  yajni- 
yebhyo  amritatvam  suvasi  Ihdgam  uttamam}.20  Agni  is  also  said,  vi.  7, 
4,  by  his  power  or  skill,  to  confer  immortality  on  the  gods,  who  wor- 
ship him  when  he  is  born  like  an  infant  and  shines  forth  from  out  of 
his  parents  (tvdm  visve  amrita  jdyamdnam  6isum  na  devdh  abhi  sam 
navante  \  tava  Jcratulhir  amritatvam  ay  an  vativdnara  yat  pitror  adldeh}. 
In  ix.  106,  8  the  gx>ds  are  Said  to  drink  Soma  to  obtain  immortality 
(tvdm  devdso  amritdya  Team  papuh ,]  compare  ix.  109,  2,  3).21  In  x. 
53,  10  some  means  are  alluded  to  (it  is  not  clear  what)  by  which  the 
gods  attained  immortality  < (yena  devdso  amritatvam  dnasuh}.  In  x. 
167,  1  Indra  is  <3aid  to  have  conquered  heaven  by  austere  fervour 
(tvam  tapah  paritapya  ajayah  svah]  •  and  in  x.  159,  4  he  is  said  to  have 
become  glorious  and  exalted  by  the  offering  of  some  oblation  (yenendro 
havishd  Icritvl  abhavad  dyumrii  uttamaK). 

In  the  A.Y.  iv.  23,  6  Agni  is  said  to  have  been  the  author  of  the 
immortality  of  the  gods  (yena  devdh  amritam  anvavindan) ;  in  the  same 

addressed  as  an  Ad'itya  along  with  Varuna  in  vii.  85,  4.  He  is  not,  however,  as  we 
have  seen  above,  considered  as  sufh  in  the  S'p.  Br.  xi.  6,  3,  5,  where  he  is  mentioned 
as  distinct  from  the  twelve  AMityas. 

20  Sayank  interprets  this  by  saying  that  he  gives  th.em  sona  and  other  means  of 
attaining  immortality  (amritatvam  (zt-sadhanam  uttamam  utkrishtatamam  bhagam 
somadi-lakshanam  suvasi  anujanasi).     The  same  deity  is  said  \.  110,  3,  to  have  con- 
ferred immortality  'on  the  Ribhus  (tat  Savita  vo  amritatvam  asuvat}. 

21  See  S'atapatha  Brahmana  ix.  5,  1,  1-8,  where  it  is  said  that  immortality  de- 
parted from  the  gods  (devebhyo  ha  vai  amritatvam  apachakrama],  when  they  set 
themselves  to  recover  it  by  religious  observances.    They  poured  out  soma  into  Agni 
and  thus  infused  immortality  into  him,  and  by  so  doing  acquired  it  themselves,  as  he 
is  the  soul  of  all  the  gods.     Soma  is  the  principle  of  immortality  (abhishutya  agnav 
ajuhnvuh  \  tad  agnav  amritam  adadliv.li  \  sarvesham  u  ha  esha  devanam  atma  yad 
agnih  \  tad  yad  agnav  amritam  adadhus  tad  atmann  amritam  adadhata  \  tato  devah 
amritah  abhavan  \  tad  yat  tad  amritam  Somah  saJi). 


AS  .REPRESENTED  IN  THE  RIG-VEDA.  15 

• 

Veda,  s5.  5,  19,  the  gods  are  said  to  have  overcome  death  by  continence 
and  austere  fervour  (brahmacharyena  tapasd  devdh  mrityum  apaghnata) ; 
.and,  ibid.  xiii.  1,  7,  to  have  acquired  immortality  through  Rohita 
(yena  devdh  amritam  anvavin^an).  Compare  the  same  Yeda  iii.  22,  3  ; 
iv.  11,  6;  iv.  14,  1;  S'atap.  Br.  i.  7,  3,  ^l  ;  Ait.  Br.  vi.  20;  Taitt. 
Sanh.  i.  7,  1,  3«  and  vi.  5,  3,  1 ;  and  the  Mahabharata  xiv.  1444  : 
Tathaiva  tapasd  devdh  mahdmdydh  divam  gatdh  \ . 

I  have  elsewhere  quoted  a  number  of  passages  from  the  S'atapatha 
Brahmana,  in  which  it  is  related  how  the  gods  became  immortal ;  and 
how,  though  of  the  same  parentage,  and  originally  on  a  footing  of 
equality,  with  the  Asuras,  they  became  superior  to  them.22  (See  the 
4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  47-53 ;  and  the  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic 
Society,  vol.  xx.  pp. 41-45.) 

According  to  the  Taittirlya  Brahmana  the  gods  obtained  their  divine 
rank  by  austerity  (tapasd  devdh  devatdm  agre  dyan  \  iii.  12,  3,  1). 

In  other  places  some  of  the  gods,  as  Wdra  (iii.  46,  1 ;  v.  42,  6),  are 
spoken  of  as  undecaying;  and  in,vi.  24,  7  it  is  said  of  that  god  that 
neither  autumns  nor  months  wear  him  out,  nor  do  days  cause  him  to 
decay  (na  yam  jaranti  sarado  na  mdsdh  n$  dydvah  Indram  avakarsa- 
yanti}.%  "Whether  or  not  the  Vedic  poets  had  anj*  conception  of  an 

22  In  S'atapatha  Brahmana  ii.  4,  2,  1,  it  is  said  that  all;  creatures  came  to  Praja- 
pati,  and  asked  that  they  might  live.  To  the  gods  he  said, "  Sacrifice  is  your  food,  your 
immortality  is  your  support,  the  sun  is  your  light,"  etc.  (yajno  vo  'nnam  amritatvam 
vah  urg  vah  suryo  vojyotih  \  To  the  passages  of  the  S'.  P.  Br.  regarding  the  manner 
in  which  the  gods  acquired  immortality,  above  referred  to,  I  may  add  one  as  yet 
unpublished  from  the  India  Office  MS.  of  the  Taittirlya  Sanhitii  vii.  4,  2,  1 :  Tathu 
vai  manushyah  evam  devdh  agre  asan  \  te  '  kamayantavarttim  papmanam  mrityum 
apahatya  dajvtm  samsadam  gachhema  iti  \  te  etam  chaturvimsatiralram  apasyams  tarn 
aharams  tena  ayajanta  tato  vai  te  'varttim  papmanam  mrityum  apahatya  daivlm 
sanisadaJh  agachchan^  "The  gods  were  formerly  just* like  men.  They  desired  to 
overcome  want,  misery,  death,  and  to  go  to  the  divine  assembly.  Th*y  saw,  took, 
and  sacrificed  with,  this  Chaturvims'atiratra,  \oA.  in  consequence  overcame  want, 
misery,  and  death,  and  reached  the  divine  assembly."  In  the  Taitt.  Sanh.  v.  p.  43a 
(of  India  Office  MS.)  we  are  told  that  "  the  gods  and  Asuras  contended  together ;  and 
that  the  former  were  less  numerous  than  the  latter,  when  they  took  some  bricks  which 
they  saw,  and  placing  them  in  the  proper  position  to  receive  the  sacrificial  fire,  with 
the  formula  '  Thou  art  a  multiplier,'  they  became  numerous  "  (Devasurah  samyattah 
asan  |  Jcanlyamso  devah  asan  bhuyamso  'surah  ^te  devah  etah  ishtakah  apasyan  \  tuh 
upadadhanta  "  bhuyaskrid  asi  "  ity  eva  bhuyamso  'bhavan).  In  the  Mahubharata, 
S'antip.  1184,  it  is  said  that  in  the  battle  which  they  had  with  each  other  "the 
Asuras  were  the  elder  brothers  and  the  gods  the  younger  "  (idam  tu  sruyate  partha 
yuddhe  devasure  pura  \  asurah  bhrataro  jyeshthah  devas  chapi  yavtyasah). 


16  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY, 

i 

absolute  future  eternity  of  the  gods,  does  not  appear.  But,  as  we  have 
seen,  the  authors  of  the  Brahmanas  did  not  regard  them  as  naturally 
and  essentially  immortal ;  and  it  is  at  all  events  evident  that  in  later 

times  their  immortality  was  regarded  as  (  only  relative,   as  according 

I 

to  the  Puranic  representation  the  gods  are  only  a  portion  of  the  exist- 
ing system  of  the  universe,  and  are  therefore  subject,  as  regards  their 
corporeal  part,  to  the  same  law  of  dissolution  as  other  beings.  See  the 
1st  vol.  of  this  work,  2nd  ed.  p.  49,  and  Professor  Wilson's  Sankhya 
Karika,  p.  14.  Thus,  in  a  verse  quoted  in  the  commentary  of  that 
work  (p.  3  of  the  Sanskrit),  it  is  said:  "Many  thousands  of  Indras 
and  of  other  gods  have,  through  time,  passed  away  in  every  mundane 
age ;  for  time  is  hard  to  overcome "  (bakunindra-sahasrdni  devdndm 
cha  yuge  yuge  \  Galena  samatltani  kdlo  hi  duraiikramaK).  And  in  the 
Sankhya  Aphorisms,  iii.  53,  it  is  said  that  "  the  suffering  arising  from 
decay  and  death  is  common  to  all"  (samtinafii  jard-maranddi-jam  duh- 
Tiham) ;  which  the  commentator  interprets  to  mean  that  such  suffering 
is  "the  common  lot  of  all  beings/  both  those  who  go  upwards  and 
those  who  go  downwards,  from  Brahma  to  things  witaout  motion" 
(urddhvddho-gatdnam  JJrahmddi-sthdvardnttindm  sarveshtim  eva  jard- 
maranddi-jam  duHXham  sddharanam}.'*3  The  souls  which  have  animated 
the  gods,  however,  like  those  which  animate  all  other  corporeal  beings, 
being  eternal  and  imperishable,  must  of  course  survive  all  such  disso- 
lutions, to  be  either  born  again  in  other  forms,  or  become  absorbed  in 
the  supreme  Brahma.  See  Wilson's  Yishnu  Pur.  p.  632,  note  7 ;  and 
the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  2nd  ed.  p.  99,  where  it  is  shewn,  on  the 
authority  of  the  Brahma  Sutras  or  of  S'ankara  their  commentator,  that 
the  gods  both  desire  and  are  capable  of  final  emancipation. 

(4)  Different  generations  (Of  gods  and  thefr  mutual  relations. 

Two  of  the  passages  above  quoted  (in  p.  14),  R.Y.  vf.  59,  1,  and  A.Y.  i. 
30,  2,  imply  that  the  existing  gods  were  successors  of  others  who  had 
'  previously  existed.  The  t  former  verse  is  perhaps  illustrated  (as  Prof. 
Aufrecht  has  suggested  to  met)  by  R.Y.  iv.  18,  12:  A'as  te  mdtaram 
ridhavdm  achakrat  sayum  kas  tvdm  ajighdmsat  charantam  \  leas  te  devo 
adhi  mdrdlhe  dsld  yat  prdlcshindh  pitaram  pddagriJiya  \  "  Who  (o 

23  Compare  Eitter's  History  of  Philosophy,  Engl.  transl.  vol.  3,  p.  538. 


AS  •REPRESENTED  IN  THE  RIG- VEDA.  17 

Indra)  made  thy  mother  a  widow  ?  "Who  sought  to  kill  thee  lying  or 
moving  ?  What  god  was  present  in  the  fray,  when  thou  didst  slay  thy 
/ather,  seizing  him  by 'the  foot?  "21  In  vii.  21,  7,  mention  is  made  of 
earlier  gods:  "Even  the  farmer  gods25  admitted  their  powers  to  be 
•  inferior  to  thy  divine  prowess"  (devds  chit  te  amryaya purve  anu  kshat- 
traya  mamire  sab&msi}.  Earlier  gods  are  also  mentioned  in  x.  109,  4, 
though  in  conjunction  with  (unless  we  are  to  understand  them  as 
identified  with)  the  seven  rishis :  "  In  regard  to  her  the  former  gods 
said,  the  seven  rishis  who  sat  down  to  .practise  austerity,"  etc.  (devah 
etasydm  avadanta  purve  saptarishayas  tapase  ye  nisheduh}.  An  earlier 
age  of  the  gods  is  mentioned  in  x.  72,  2  f.  :  "  In  the  former  age  of  the 
gods,  the  existent  sprang  from  the  non-existent.  In  the  first  age  of  the 
gods  the  existent  sprang  from  the  non-existent "  (devdndm  purvye  yuge 
asatah  sad  ajdyata  \  3.  Devanum  yuge  prathame  asatah  sad  ajayata). 
And  in  R.Y.  i.  164,  50  we  have  the  following  verse,  which  is  repeated 
in  x.  90,  1 6  (the  Purusha  Sukta) :  yajnena  yajnam  ayajanta  devds  tdni 
dharmdni  prathamuni  dsan  \  te  Ita  ndkam  mahimdnah  sachanta  yatra 
purve  sddhyafo  santi  devah  \  "With  sacrifice  the  gods  worshipped  the 
sacrifice :  these  were  the  earliest  rites.  These  great  powers  sought 
after  tb^  sky,  where  are  the  early  Sadhyas,  gods."  M  * 

24  In  explanation  of  this  legend  Sayana  refers  to  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita  vi.  1,  3,  6. 
The  following  is  the  passage  referred  to,  which  I  quote  to  show  how  little  light  it 
throws  on  the  text  of  the  R.V. :   Yajno  dakshincim  abhyadhayat  \  tarn  samabhavat  \ 
tad  Indro  'chayat  \  so  'manyata  "  yo  vai  ito  janishyate  sa  idam  bhavishyati"  iti  \  tarn 
pravisat  \  tasya  Indra  evajayata  \  so  'manyata  "  yo  vai  mad  ito  'paro  janishyate  sa 
idam  bhavishyati"  iti  \  tasyp  anumrisya  yonim  achhinat  \  sa  sutavasa'bhavat  \  tat 
sutavasayai  janma  \  tarn  haste  nyaveshtayata  \  tarn  mrigeshu  nyadadhat  \  sa  krishna- 
vishana  'bhwat   \    '' Indrasya  yonir    asi  ma  ma  himslr"  iti  \  ''Tajna  (sacrifice) 
desired  Dakshina  (largess).     He  consorted  witji  Vr.     Indra  was  apprehensive  of 
this.     He*  reflected :  ''whoever  is  born  of  her  will  be  this.'     He  entered  into  her. 
Indra  himself  was  born'of  hej.     He  reflected :  '  whoever  is  born  of  her  ^besides  me 
will  be  this.'     Having  considered,  he  cut  open*her  womb.     She  produced  a  cow," 
etc.     No  mention  is  here  made  of  his  killing  his  father. 

25  Sayana  in  loco  says  this  means  Asuras. 

26  I  quote  here  part  of  a  note  from  my  article  On  the  Interpretation  of  the  Veda,  , 
Jour.  R.A.S.  for  1866,  p.  395 :  Yaska  tells  us  (Nirukta  xu.  41)  that  the  Nairuktas  under- 
stood the  Siidhyas  to  be  "the  gods  whose  locality  is  the  sky,"  dynsthano  devaganah, 
whilst,  according  to  a  legend  (akhyana)  the  term*denoted  a  former  age  of  the  gods." 
Professor  Wilson  translates  the  word  Sadhyah  in  R.V.  i.  164,  50  by  "  who  are  to  be  pro- 
pitiated," a  sense  not  assigned  by  Sayana,  who  proposes,  first,  that  of  sadhana  yajnadi- 
sadhana-vantah  karmadevah,  "performers,  performers  of  sacrifices,  etc.,  work-gods." 
These  words  are  rendered  by  Prof.  "Wilson  in  his  note  on  i.  164,  50,  "  divinities  presiding 

2 


18  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALEF, 

The  gods  do  not  seem  to  have  lived  always  on  a  friendly  footing  with 
each  other.  It  appears  to  me  that  the  two  following  verses,  E.V.  iv.  30, 

3,  5,  though  otherwise  rendered  by  Professor  Wilson  (after  Sayana)  are  tc 
be  understood  of  Indra  fighting  against  tke  gods,  and  not  with  the  gods 
against  the  Asuras  :  3.  Visve  chana  id  and  tvd  devasah  Indra  yuyudhuh  \ 
yad  alia  naktam  dtirah  \  5.  Yatra  devtin  righayato  visvdn  aypdhyah  ekah 
it  |   tvam  Indra  vanun  ahan   \    3.  "  Even  all  the  gods  assailed  thee 
Indra,  when  thou  didst  prolong  (?)  day  and  night.     5.  When  thou 
didst  fight  alone  against   all* the   furious   gods,  thou  didst   slay  the 
destructive."     This  interpretation  is  favoured  by  the  tenor  of  verses 

4,  6,  8-11  of  the  same  hymn.27 

(5)  Their  powers  and  prerogatives. 

The  gods  can  do  whatever  they  will ;  no  mortal,  however  hostile  his 
disposition,  can  thwart  their  designs  (R.V.  viii.  28,  4.  Yathd  vasanti 
devas  tad  id  asat  tad  eshdm  nakir  a  minat  \  arava  chana  marttyah}.  The 
same  is  said  of  the  Maruts  viii.  20,  17  ;  and  of  Indra  viii.  50,  4;  viii. 
55,  4.  It  is  similarly  declared  in  iii.  56,  1,  that  no  one,  however  skilful 

oyer  or  giving  effect  to  religious  acts."  This  does  not,  however,  appear,-to  be  the 
real  sense,  as  Mahldhara  on  Vaj.  S.  31, 17,  tells  us  that "  there  are  two  kinds  of  gods," 
karmadevah,  "work-gods,"  and  ajanadevah,  "gods  by  birth,''  the  first  being  those 
who  had  attained  to  the  condition  of  deities  by  their  eminent  works,  and  the  second 
those  who  were  produced  at  the  beginning  of  the  creation.  The  second  class  is 
superior  to  the  first,  and,  according  to  the  Brihadaranyaka,  a  hundred  enjoyments  of 
the  latter  (the  work-gods),  "  are  only  equal  to  one  single  enjoyment  of  the  former." 
See  all  this  and  more  declared  in  the  Brihadaranyaka  Upanishad,  pp.  817  ff.  (p.  230  f. 
of  translation),  a,nd  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  p.  1087.  A  second  sense  proposed  for 
sadhyah  by  Sayana  on  R.V.  i.  164,  50,  is  that  of  the  "  deities  presiding'over  metres," 
chhando  'bhimaninah,  who^werS"  A&tyas  and  Angirases,  and,  according  to  a  Brah- 
mana, by  worshipping  Agni  were  exalted  to  heaven.  Prof.  Wilson  remarks  in  his 
note:  "It  would  seem  that  in  Sajana's  day  the  purport  of  the  designation  Sadhya 
had  become  uncertain."  Mahldhara  on  JTaj.  S.  31,  16,  renders  the  term  virad- 
upadJii-sudhakah,  "producers  of  the  condition  of  Viraj." 

27  I  should  observe  that  the  Brahmanas  constantly  speak  of  the  gods  and  Asuras 
as  being  both  the  offspring  of  Prajapati :  as  contending  together  (S'atap.  Br.  v.  1, 
1, 1 ;  vi.  6,  2,  11 ;  vi.  6,  3,  2)^  and  even  as  being  originally  equal  or  alike  (4th  vol. 
of  this  work,  p.  52).  And  to  prove  that  even  malignant  spirits  may  be  called 
"gods,"  Prof.  Roth,  s.v.  deva,  quotes  from  the  Taitt.  Sanh.  iii.  5,  4,  1,  a  verse 
to  the  effect :  "  May  Agni  preserve  me  from  the  gods  (devah),  destroyers  of  sacrificers, 
stealers  of  sacrifices,  who  inhabit  the  earth ;  "  and  a  second  text  from  the  A.V.  iii. 
15,  5  :  "Agni,  do  thou  through  the  oblation  repel  the  gods  who  are  destroyers  of 
happiness"  (?  sataghnah). 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA,  19 

* 
and  wise,  can  impede  the  first  and  firm  decrees  of  the  gods  (no,  to. 

minanti  mdyino  na  dhlrdh  vratd  devdndm  prathamd  dhruvdni}.  They 
l&ve  dominion  over  all  creatures  (x.  65,  15.  Devdn  Vasisktho  amritdn 
vavande  ye  visvd  bhuvand  abJK,  pratasthuK}.  >  They  are  supplicated  in 
viii.  30,  3,  not  to  lead  *the  worshippers  far  away  from  the  paths  of 
their  ancestor  M3nu  (ma  nah  pathah  pitrydd  mdnavdd  adhi  duram 
naishta  pardvatah);  In  one  passage  (R.V.  x.  33,  8  f.)  a  grateful  priest 
exclaims  that  if  he  were  lord  of  the  :jnmortals  and  of  mortals,  his 
royal  patron's  life  should  be  prolonged;  but,  he  adds,  no  one,  even 
though  he  attain  the  age  of  a  hundred  years,  can  live  beyond  the  time 
the  gods  appoint;  such  has  been  the  perpetual  course  of  things  (8.  Tad 
islya  amritdndm  uta  vd  martydndm  \  jived  id  maghavd  mama  \  9.  Na 
devdndm  ati  vratam  satdtma  chana  jlvati  \  tathd  yujd  m  vavrite}.  In 
another  place,  x.  117,  1,  an  encomiast  of  liberality  expresses  his  as- 
surance that  the  gods  had  not  ordained  Jiim  (or  others)  to  die  of 
hunger,  as  even  the  full-fed  are  overtaken  by  various  forms  of  death 
(Na  vai  u  devdh  Icshudham  id  vadham  dadur  uta  dsitam  upa  gachhanti 
mrityavah}.  Another  poet  cries  (x.  64,  2)  that  there  is  no  other 
helper  than  the  gods,  on  whom  the  fulfilment  of  all  his^ wishes  depends 
(na  marqfttd  vidyate  anyah  elhyo  deveshu  me  adhi  Icdmdh  ayamsata'). 
They  live  in  enjoyment  in  the  region  where  Vishnu  took  his  three 
strides  (viii.  29,  7.  Trini  ekah  urugdyo'vi  chakrameyatra  devdso  madanti  \ 
comp.  i.  154,  4).  In  iii.  54,  5,  the  rishi  asks  "  who  knows,  who  now 
can  declare,  what  road  leads  to  the  gods  ?  Their  lower  abodes  are 
indeed  perceived,  but  there  are  higher  and  mysterious  manifestations, 
or  regions,  tyeyond  (Jco  addhd  veda  leak  iha  pra  vochad  devdtl  achha  pathyd 
led  sametil  dadrisre  eshtim  avamd  saddmsi  p&rethu  yjl  guhyeshu  vrateshu 28). 
On  the  other  hand  the  drinker  of  Soma  attains  to  the  privilege  of 
immortality  and  of  knowing  the  gods  (viii*  48,  3.  Apdma  somam  amri- 
ttih  abhuma  aganmx  jyotir  aviddma  devdn  \  Comp.  x.  31,  3.  navedaso 
amritdndm  abhuma  |). 

28  The  construction  and  sense  of  the  last  four  words  A  obscure.  They  occur  again 
in  a  different  connection  in  x.  114,  2  (where  hcwever  yah  is  feminine :  tasam  ni 
chikyuh  kavayo  nidanam  pareshu  yah  guhyeshu  vrateshu  \  "The  wise  perceive  the 
nature  of  these,  who  [exist]  in  high  and  mysterious  forms,  [or  realms]."  The  sense 
of  enclosure  or  realm  is  assigned  to  the  word  vrata  by  Miiller,  Trans,  of  R.V.  i.  225, 
who  renders  this  last  line  thus  :  The  poets  discovered  their  (the  Nirritis')  origin,  who 
are  in  the  far  hidden  chambers." 


20  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALITY. 

The  gods  reward  their  pious  worshippers  and  punish  those  who 
neglect  their  service:  viii.  2,  18.  Ichhanti  devdh  sunvantam  na  svap- 
ndya  sprihayanti  \  "  The  gods  desire  a  man  who  pours  out  libations, 
they  do  not  love  sleep."  ^  *• 

viii.  31,  15.  Makshu  devavato  rathah  suro  varpritsu  kdsu  chit  \  devd- 
nam  yah  id  mano  yajamanah  iyakshati  abhld  ayajvanfrlhuvpt  \  16.  Na 
yajamana  rishyasi  na  sunvdna  na  d^ayo  \  "  15.  Impetuous  is  the 
chariot  of  the  godly  man,  and  he  is  a  hero  in  every  battle.  The 
•  sacrificer  who  seeks  to  please  the  gods  overcomes  the  man  who  does 
not  sacrifice.  16.  Thou  dost  not  perish,  o  sacrificer,  nor  thou  who 
offerest  libations,  nor  thou,  o  godly  man." 

vii.  39,  2.  Na  devasah  kavatnave  \  "  The  gods  are  not  for  (i.e.  they 
are  not  the  portion  of)  the  illiberal  (or  sluggish)."  Have  the  words  na 
rite  srantasya  sakhydya  devdh,  in  iv.  33,  11,  a  similar  meaning  :  "The 
gods  are  not  friendly  to  him  who  is  tired  of  the  sacred  rite  "  ?  See  a 
collection  of  texts  to  the  same  effect  as  regards  the  individual  deities 
in  my  article  "  On  the  relations  of  the  priests  to  the  other  classes  of 
society  in  the  Vedic  age,"  Journ.  K.  A.  S.  for  1866,  pp.  286  ff. ;  and 
a  selection  from  them  in  tne  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  2nd  ed.  pp.  259  ff. 

According  to  the  S'atapathaBrahmana,  i.  1,  1,7,  "  the  gods  tnow  the 
intentions  of  a  man.  They  are  aware  that  he  contemplates  the  per- 
formance of  this  rite,  and  will  make  his  offering  in  the  morning ;  and 
consequently  they  all  come  to  his  house  and  abide  there"  (Mano  ha  vai 
devdh  manushyasya  djdnanti  \  te  enam  etad  vratam  upayantam  viduh 
prdtar  no  yakshyate  iti  \  te  asya  visve  devdh  gpihdn  agachhanti  te  asya 
grihesJiu  upavasanti}. 

I  have  here  endeavoured  tq,  collect  such  characteristics  and  attributes 
as  are  ^n  the  Yeda  ascribed  to  the  gods  collectively.  In  the  sections 
treating  of  the  several  deitier,  the  qualities  and  functions  attributed  to 
each  will  be  brought  forward  in  detail. 


21 


SECTJON    II. 
> 

DYAUS2"    AND    PRITHIVI. 

I  begin  with.  Dyaus  and  Prithivi  (Heaven  and  Earth),  who  seem  to 
have  been  very  ancient  Aryan  divinities,  and  are  in  many  passages  of 
the  Big-veda  described  as  the  parents  of  the  other  gods. 

In  addition  to  numerous  detached  verses  in  which  these  deities  are 
introduced  among  other  objects  of  adoration,  are  invited  to  attend 
religious  rites,  and  supplicated  for  different  blessings,  there  are  several 
hymns30  (i.  159;  i.  160;  i.  185;  i'v.  56;  vi.  70;  and  vii.  53),  which 
are  specially  devoted  to  their  honour.  As  a  specimen  of  the  way  in 
which  they  are  addressed,  I  subjoin  a  translation  (very  imperfect,  I 
fear,)  of  lome  parts  of  the  159th  and  160th  hymns  of  the  first  book : 

i.  159,  1.  Pro,  dydvd  yajnaih  prithivl  ritdvridhd  mahl  stushe  vida- 
theshu  prachetasd  \  devebhir  ye  devaputre  sudamsasd  itthd  dhiyd  vdrydni 
prabhushatah  \  2.  TJta  manye  pitur  adruJio  mano  mdtur  mahi  svatavas 
tad  havlmabhih  \  suretasd  pitard  bhuma  chakratur  uru  prajdydh  amritam 
varlmabhih  \  "  1.  At  the  festivals  [I  worship]  with  offerings,  and  cele- 
brate the  praises  of,  Heaven  and  Earth,  the  promoters  of'  righteousness, 
the  great,  the  wise,  the  energetic,  who,  having  gods  for  their  offspring, 
thus  lavish,  with  the  gods,  the  choicest  blessings,  in  consequence  'of 
our  hymn.  2.  "With  my  mvocations  I  adore  the  thought  of  the  bene- 
ficent Father,  and«that  mighty  inherent  power  of  the  Mother.  The 
prolific  Parents  have  made  all  creatures,  and  through  their  favours 
(have  conferred)  wide  immortality  on  their  offspring." 

29  The  crude  form  of  this  word  is  Dyu.     I  employ  the  nominative  Dyaus,  from  its 
closer  resemblance  to  the  Greek  Zeus.     The  genitive  is  Divas. 

30  See  also  A.V.  iv.  26.    Prithivi  alone  is  celebrated  in  R.V.  5,  84,  1  ff.     Hymn  i. 
185,  is  translated  and  commented  on  by  M.  Ad.  Regnier  in  his  E'tude  sur  1'idiome  des 
Vedas. 


22  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 

i.  160,  2.  TTruvyachasd  mahinl  asaschatd  pita  mdtd  cha  bhuvandni 
raTcshatah  \  ....  3.  Ay  am  devdndm  apasdm  apastamo  yo  jajdna  rodasl 
visva-sambhuvd  \  vi  yo  mame  rajasl  suJcratiiyayd  ajarelhih  skambhanebhih 
samdnriche  \  4.  Te  no  grindne  mahinl  nahi  sravah  Icshattram  dydvd- 
prithim  dhdsatho  mahat  \  yendlhi  krishtls  tatandma  visvahd  pandyyam 
ojo  asme  sam  invatam  \  "2,.  Widely  expanded,  vast,  unwearied,  the 
Father  and  the  Mother  preserve  all f  creatures.  .  .  ,,  .  4.  He  was  the 
most  skilful  of  the  skilful  gods  who  produced  these  two  worlds,  which 
are  beneficent  to  all,  who,  desiring  to  create  an  excellent  work,  stretched 
out  these  regions  and  sustained  them  by  undecaying  supports.  5. 
"When  lauded,  may  the  mighty  Heaven  and  earth  bestow  on  us  great 
renown  and  power.  May  they  impart  to  us  laudable  energy  whereby 
we  may  always  control  other  creatures." 

In  the  hymns  Heaven  and  Earth  are  characterized  by  a  profusion  of 
epithets,  not  only  such  as  are  suggested  by  their  various  physical 
characteristics,  as  vastness,  breadth,  profundity,  productiveness,  un- 
changeableness  (uruvyachasd,  mahinl,  urvl,  lahule,  dureante,  gabhlre, 
ghritavatl,  madhudughe,  Ihuriretasd,  payasvatl,  ajare]  (i'.  160,  2;  i.  185, 
7;  iv.  56,  3;  vi.  70,  1,  21);  but  also  by  such  as  are  of  a  moral  or 
spiritual  nature,  "as  innocuous  or  beneficent,  wise,  promoters  of  »>ghteous- 
ness,  (ritdvridhd,  ritdvarl,  prachetasd,  adruha]  (i.  159,  1  f. ;  i.  160,  1  ; 
iv.  56,  2 ;  vi.  70,  6 ;  x.  36,  2). 

(1)  Heaven  and  Earth  described  as  the  universal  parents. 

The  two  (Heaven  and  Earth)  together  are  styled  parents,  pitard 
(in  i.  159,  2;  iii.  3,  11  ;  vii.  53,  2;  x.  65,  8),  or  mdtarcC  (in  i.  155, 
3;  ix.  85,  12;  x.  '1,  r/;r  x.  35,  3 ; 31  x.  64,  14),  <x  janitrl 
(dydvd-p'rithivl  janitrl  B.Y.  x.  110,  9).a  Inf  other  passages  the 
Heaven  is  separately  styled  father,  and  the  Earth  mother  (in  R.V. 
i.  89,  4;  i.  90,  7;  i.  159,  2;  i.  160,  2;  i.  185,  ll';  iv.  1,  10;  v.  42, 
16  ;  v.  43,  2,  15  ;  vi.  51,  5  ; 32  vi.  70,  6 ;  vi.  72,  2  ;  viii.  92,  2  ;  x. 
54,  3 ;  x.  88,  15  (=  Vajr  Sanh.  19,  47).  See  also  A.V.  ii.  28,  4;  iii. 

31  Here  they  are  supplicated  to  preserve  the  worshipper  sinless.     In  R.V.  vi.  17, 
7,  they  are  called  matara  yahvi  ritasya,  "  the  great  parents  of  sacrifice." 

32  The  words  of  the  original  here  are  Dyaush  pitah  Prithivl  matar  adhrug  Agne 
bhratar    Vasavo  mfilata  nah  \  "  Father  Heaven,  innoxious  mother  Earth,  brother 
Agni,  Vasus,  be  gracious  to  us."    A.V.  vi.  4,  3  has  Dyaushpitar  yavaya  duchhuna  ya. 


I 

AS  REPRESENTED  IN  THE  RIG-VEDA,  23 

23,  6;  vi.  4,  3;  vi.  120,  2;  viii.  7,  2  ;  and  xii.  1,  10.  In  the  same 
Yeda,  xii.  1,  12,  the  poet  says :  "The  Earth  .is  the  mother,  and  I  am 
4he  son  of  the  earth  :  Parjanya  is  the  father ;  may  he  nourish  us  (Mdtd 
bhumih  putro  aham  prithivyah  \  Parjanyah  pita  sa  u  nah  pipartu). 
Again  in  verse  42  of  tie  same  hymn  he  says,  "Reverence  be  paid  to 
the  Earth,  £he  "wife  of  Parjanya,  to  her  who  draws  her  richness  from 
showers  (Bhumyai  Parjanya-patpyai  namo  'stu  varsha-medase}.  Here, 
as  it  will  be  noticed,  Parjanya  takes  the  place  of  Dyaus,  as  the  husband 
of  Prithivl.33 

In  the  Aitareya  Brahmana,  iv.  27,  we  have  the  following  reference 
to  the  marriage  of  Heaven  and  Earth :  Imau  vai  lokau  saha  dstdm  \ 
tau  vyaitdm  \  na  avarshat  na  samatapat  \  te  panchajandh  na  sama- 
jdnata  \  tau  devdh  samanayan  \  tau  samyantdv  etam  deva-vivdham  vyava- 

hetdm  \ asau  vai  loTcah  imam  lokam  abhi  parydvarttata  \  tato  vai 

dydvdprithivl  alhavatdm  \  na  dydvd  antarikshdd  na  antarikshdd  bhumih  \ 
which  is  translated  as  follows  by  Professor  Haug  (vol.  ii.  308) :  "  These 
two  worlds  (heaven  and  earth)  were  once  joined.  (Subsequently)  they 
separated.  (After  their  separation)  there  fell  neither  rain,  nor  was 
there  sunshine.  The  five  classes  of  beings  (gods,  men,  etc.)  then  did 
not  ke*»p  peace  with  one  another.  (Thereupon)  "flie  gods  brought 
about  a  reconciliation  of  both  these  worlds.  Both  contracted  with  one 
another  a  marriage  according  to  the  rites  observed  by  the  gods."  The 
end  of  the  section  I  render :  "That  world  approached  this  world  : 
thence  were  produced  heaven  and  "earth:  neither  the  heaven  nor  the 
earth  was  produced  from  the  air." 

Heaven  and  Earth  are  regarded  as  the  parents  not  only  of  men,  but 
of  the  gods  also,  as  appears  from  the  various  texts  where  they  are 
designated  by  the' epithet  devaputre,  "having "gods  for  their  children" 
(viz.  in  i.  106,  3;  i?  159j»  1 ;  i.  185,  4;34#iv.  56,  2  ;  vi.  17,  7  ;\ii.  53,  1; 
x.  11,  9).  In  like  manner  it  is  said  (in  vii.  97,  8)  that  "the  divine 
worlds  (i.e.  Heaven  and  Earth),  the  parents  of  the  god,  have  augmented 
Brihaspati  by  their  power"  x  (devl  Aevasya  rodasl  janitrl  Brihaspatim 

33  The  Taittirlya  Aranyaka  says,  p.  73  :  Jaya  bhumir  patir  vyoma  \  mithunam  ta 
ilyadi  \  "  The  Earth  is  the  wife,  the  Sky  is  the*  husband ;  they  are  a  pair."     Manu 
says,  ii.  225  :  Mata  prithivyah  murttih  \  "  A  mother  is  an  image  of  the  Earth." 

34  In  Terse  6  of  this  hymn  they  are  called  janitrl,  "  the  parents." 

35  In  iii.  53,  7,  and  iv.  2,  15,  the  Angirases  are  said  to  be  divasputrah,  sons  of 
Dyaus.     See  also  z.  62,  6,  and  3. 


24  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 

vdvridhatur  mahitvd)  ;  and  (in  x.  2,  7)  they  are  described  as  having,  in 
conjunction  with  the  waters,  and  with  Tvashtri,  begotten  Agni  (yam 
tvd  dydvd-prithivi  yam  tv  dpas  Tvashtd  yam  tvd  sujanimd  jajdna).  And* 
in  various  passages  they  are  said  to  haveomade  (pitard  bhuma  chakra- 
tuh),  and  to  sustain  (pita  mdtd  cha  bhuvandni  rakshatah  \  visvam  tmand 
bilhritho  yad  ha  ndma]  all  creatures  (in  i.  159,  2  ;  i.  160,  2;  j.  185,  I).36 
In  the  next  Section  we  shall  find  that  according  to  E.Y.  x.  63,  2,  a 
threefold  origin  is  ascribed  to  the  gods,  some  of  them  having  been  pro- 
duced from  Aditi,  others  from  the  aerial  waters,  and  others  again  from 
the  earth. 

(2)  Passages  to  the  same  effect  from  the  classical  authors. 

But  it  is  not  in  ancient  Indian  mythology  alone  that  Heaven  and 
Earth  are  regarded  as  being  the  universal  parents.  It  is  observed  by 
a  recent  French  author  that  "  the  marriage  of  Heaven  and  Earth  forms 
the  foundation  of  a  hundred  mythologies."37  According  to  the  Theogony 
of  Hesiod  (116  if.)  the  first  thing  that  arose  out  of  Chaos  was  "the 
broad-bosomed  Earth,  the  firm  abode  cf  all  things  " 

"HTOJ  fJ.ev  irpiiriffTa  Xoos  ylvcr1  ,  aiiT&p  eireiTa, 

TaT  evpvffTfpvos,  Trdvroiv  e'Soy  cur^aAts  otel.  f* 


She  in  her  turn  "  produced  the  starry  Heaven,  co-extensive  with  her- 
self, to  envelope  her  on  every  part."  38  From  the  union  of  these  two 
powers  sprang  Oceanos,  Kronos,  the  Cyclopes,  E-heia,  etc.  (132ff.); 
and  from  Kronos  and  Rheia  again  were  produced  Zeus,  Here,  and  other 
deities  (453  ff.).  In  his  "Works  and  Days"  (561)  Hesiod  speaks  of 
the  Earth  as  Trt^avrtav  MTTJP,  the  earth  the  mother  of  all  things."  39 

Among  the  Homeric  hymns  there  is  one  of  19  lines  addressed  to 
"  the  mother  of  all  things"  which  begins  thus  : 

rlv,  K.T.\. 

36  In  one  place  (vi.  50,  7),  the  waters  are  spoken  of  as  mothers  (janitrlh)  of  all 
.things  moveable  and  immoveahle.  Compare  the  passages  from  the  S'atapatha  Brah- 
mana,  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  ^vork,  pp.  15  f.  ;  21  f.  ;  and  the  texts  given  in  the  1st 
vol.  2nded.  p.  31  f.  52  f.;  and  R.V.(  x.  121,  7;  x.  29,  3.  In  the  A.V.  xix.  54,  1, 
the  waters  themselves  are  said  to  have  sprung  from  time  (kalad  apah  samabhavari). 

3T  M.  Albert  Eeville,  Essais  de  Critique  Religieuse,  p.  383.  "  Cent  mythologies 
sent  fondees  sur  le  mariage  du  ciel  et  de  la  terre."  See  also  pp.  292  and  298. 

38  The  original  verses  will  be  found  at  the  close  of  the  section  on  Variina. 

89  The  line  in  which  these  words  occur  is  however  supposed  to  he  spurious. 


AS    REPRESENTED    IX    THE    RIG- VEDA,  25 

"  I  will  sing  of  the  Earth,  the  universal  mother,  the  firmly  based,  the 
most  venerable,  who  feeds  all  creatures  that  are  on  the  ground,"  etc. 
la  v.  6,  it  is  said  that  it  depends  on  her  to  give  life  to  mortals,  and 
to  take  it  away  :  «  } 

ir6rvia,  treO  8'  &xtrat  Sovvai  fi(ov  f/8'  a<pe\(<rOai 


In  verse  16  she  is  addressed  as  a  venerable  goddess,  ere/tw^  fleet,  and  in 

v.  17  as  "  the  mother  of  the  gods,  and  the  spouse  of  the  starry  Ouranos  : 

> 

Xoup*  deuv  /iVjTTjp,  &\QX'   Ovpavov  atrrepAevros. 

JEschylus,  in  his  Prometheus  Vinctus,  88  ff.,  makes  Prometheus 
exclaim  "  0  divine  aether,  and  ye  many-  winged  blasts,  ye  fountains  of 
the  rivers,  thou  multitudinous  laugh  of  Ocean,  and  thou  Earth,  the 
Universal  Mother  ;  —  and  the  all-beholding  circle  of  the  Sun  I  invoke:  " 

3>  STos  alB^ip  Kal  raxvirrepoi  irvoal 
irora.fj.Siv  re  Tryyal  irovriuv  re  KV/J.CITWI' 
avi]piQfjt.ov  •ye'Aaa/ua,  irafj.fj.7JTOp  re  yij, 
Kal  rbf  travoTtriiv  KVK\OV  rj\lov  KO,\U. 

In  the  Seven  against  Thebes,  16,  Eteocles  speaks  of  "  Mother  Earth, 
the  most  beloved  nurse  "  :  , 

<pt\rdrr)  rpo<pf.  t 


At  the  beginning  of  the  Eumenides  of  the  same  poet  the  Earth  is 
worshipped  as  the  first  prophetess  : 

npcoToi'  fj.ev  evxy  Tp5e  irps<rf$fli(>}  dftiiv 
TTJV  irpoirofiaVTiv  TaTaj* 

And  in  the  41st  fragment  of  ^Eschylus  (from  the  Danaides)  Aphrodite 
is  introduced  as  saying  : 

'         ^poc  fj.(v  ayvbs  ovpavbs  rpSxrai  ^flj^a, 
fpus  Se  ycuav  \a/j.ftdvei  •yo^tot>  TC^CH/' 
ofi^pos  8'  air'  evvdfvros  ovpavov  irecrcbv 
eKVffe  '•ya?ai'»  i]  8e  rlKrtrat  jSporoI? 
fj.ri\a>v  re  $o<rita.s  Kal  fi'iov  Ari/j.-firpiov 
SevSpiaris  Sipa.  8"  £K  vori^ovros  yd/j.ov 
Tf\ft6s  effTi.  rSiv  8'  tyia  wapatrios. 

"  The  pure  Heaven  loves  to  inflict  on  the  Earth  an  amorous  blow  ; 
and  desire  seizes  the  earth  to  obtain  the  nuptial  union.  Eain  falling 
from  the  moist  Heaven  impregnates  the*  Earth,  who  brings  forth  for 
mortals  the  food  of  sheep,  and  the  sustenance  of  Demeter.  The  verdure 
of  the  woods  also  -is  perfected  by  the  showers  proceeding  from  this 
marriage.  Of  all  these  things  I  (Aphrodite)  am  in  part  the  cause." 


I 
26  THE    INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 

Sophocles  also,   in  his  (Edipus  Coloneus,   1480,  makes  the  chorus 
speak  of  "Mother  Earth  :  " 

"l\aos,  Si  Sat/j.Qiv,  ?Xaoy,   ei  n  ya  * 

fj-arepi  Tvyxatreis  a(peyyes  tpepcav. 

And  in  his  Antigone,  3$8,  she  is  characterized  as  "  the  highest  of 
the  deities,  imperishable  and  unwearied  :  " 

Qeuv  re  ray  vireprdrav,  yav 

a<p6iTOV,  aKafjidrav  airoTpterai,  K.T.\.  * 

In  his  Philoctetes,  391,  she  is,  addressed  as  "the  all-nurturing  earth, 
the  mother  of  Zeus  himself:  " 

'Opea-repa  ira.fj.pu>Ti  Ta,  fiarep  avrov  Albs, 
ft  rbv  fj.eyav  Ha,KTca\bv  evxpvaov  vep.eis. 

Euripides   also,    in  his   Hippolytus,    601,    makes  his  hero   invoke 
"  Mother  Earth  :  " 

§>  yaia.  firfrep  i)\iov  T'  avairrv^al,  K.T.\. 

So  too  in  the  Helena,  39  : 

'u>S    t)X^OV    fiOTVV 


And  again  in  the  same  drama,   613,  the  heroine  speaks  of  Heaven 
as  the  Father  : 

irarep'  es  ovpavbv 


In  his  Bacchae,  274,  the  same  poet  makes  Teiresias  thus  identify 
Earth  with  the  goddess  Demeter  : 

8i5o  yap,  S>  veavia, 

T&  TrpSrr'  fv  avOpcaTTouri}  A7)/XT7TT)p  Bed. 
Trj  8"  fffriy  ovo^a.  o'  (Wrepoj/  /SovAei  Ka\ei, 
avn]  fief  ev  ^ripoiaiv  eKTpe<pei  Pporous. 

"Two  things,  o  youth,  are  the  first  among  men,  the  goddess  Demeter, 
and  she  is  the  Earth.  Call  her  by  either  name  as  you  please.  She 
nourishes  mortals  witK  dry  sustenance."  40  The  Second  deity  is  Dio- 
nysus who  gives  them  the  juice  of  the  grape/- 

40  In  describing  the  Egyptian  cosmogony  Diodorus  Siculus'i.  12  also  thus  connects 
the  Earth  with  Demeter  :  T^j/  5e  yrjv  ttcnrep  ayyel6v  ri  T£>V  <pvo/j.evtav  \>Tro\a.fji^a.vovra.s 
fj.r]Tepa  irpocrayopevffai-  Kai  rovy"E\\rjvas  tie  ravr-riv  •jrapair\ria-ltas  A-fifj.7jTpav  Ka\e?i>, 
/3pa.)(v  /j.eTa,Te6eiffT]s  TTJJ  Xe'lfws'  rb  yap  waXaibv  ovond^ecrOai  yr\v  /J.ijrepa,  KaOdirep 
Kal  rbv  Op<pfa  Trpo/j-aprvpelv  Keyovra  "  717  /U^JTTJ/J  iravTitiv,  Ayfj.'fjTrjp  ir\ovroS6retpa." 
"  And  they  say  that,  conceiving  the  Earth  as  a  sort  of  receptacle  of  the  things  which 
•were  produced,  they  called  her  mother  ;  and  that  the  Greeks  in  like  manner  call  her 
Demeter,  with  a  slight  alteration  of  the  letters  (i.e.  Demeter  for  Gerneter)  :  for  of 
old  she  was  called  '  Earth  Mother  '  (Gen  metera),  as  Orpheus  too  testifies  when  he 
speaks  of  '  the  Earth  the  mother  of  all  things,  Demeter,  the  giver  of  wealth.'  " 


\ 


AS  "REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA,  27 

And  HT  the  6th  fragment  from  the  Chrysippus  of  the  same  dramatist 
we  find  the  following  passage  : 

'  Taia  /J.eyi<rrri  Kal  Albs  ctifW/p, 

6  (lev  a.v8pjf>ircav  Kal  Qetav  yevirwp, 
fi  8"  vypofi6\ovs  ffrayovas  voriovs 
TrapaSe^a.fj.evri  rlKrei  Bvarovs, 
,  •       rlnTfi  8e  fiopav,  <pv\.a  re  Bypuv, 

SOev  OVK  a,S'iK<as 
/UTJTTjp  iravruv  vev6fjii(rrai. 

"  The  mighty  Earth,  and  Jove's  JEthei1,  —  of  these  the  one  is  the  gene- 
rator of  men  and  gods,  and  the  other,  receiving  the  drops  of  moisture, 
produces  mortals,  produces  food,  and  the  tribes  of  animals;  —  whence 
she  is  not  unjustly  regarded  as  the  mother  of  all."  41 

The  earth  also  appears  to  he  regarded  by  Pindar  (Nem.  6,  1  if.)  as 
the  common  parent,  or  sustainer,  of  both  gods  and  men  : 

*"Ev  avtipwv,  ir  QeS>v  yevos-  tic  fnias  Se  •nveoft.fv 


"  There  is  one  race  of  men,  and  one  of  gods  ;  but  we  both  draw  our 
breath  from  the  same  mother." 

In  the  following  passage  of  Dionysius  of  Halicarnassus,  vol.  v.  p.  355 
(Diod.  Sic.  i.  7  ;42  Euseb.  P.  E.  i.  p.  20d)43,  and  in  the  fragment  of  Euri- 


41  See   also   Plato,  Repub.  iii.  20  :  'EirejS^j  Se  travre\<as  e^eipyaff^evoi  fiffav  Kal 
i]  yri  avrovs  fi-firyp  olaa  avTJKe,  K.T.\.    "  But  when  they  were  perfectly  fashioned, 
and  the  earth,  their  mother,  sent  them  forth,"  etc.     See  also  the  Menexenus,  Sect.  7  : 
from  which   I    extract  the  following  :  '6  Sr;  Kal  fy  ^uere'pa  77}  re  Kal  /uiijT^p  'iKavbv 
TeKfi.iipi.ov  Trapt'xfTot  us  avOpcairovs  yevvriffg.ij.evri'   .  .  .  ov  yap  yrj  ywa'iKa  fj.e/j.t/j.riTai 
Kvfiffei  Kal  yevvhffei  a\\a  yw^i  yyv.     "  Whereby  our  own  land  and  mother  (Attica) 
gives  sufficient  proof  that  she  has  produced  men,"  etc.     And  :  "  For  the  earth  does 
not  imitate  woman  in  becoming  pregnant,  and  bearing  offspring,  but  woman  the  earth." 

42  Diodoms  begins  the  passage  i.  7,  in  which  he  introduces  these  lines  from  Euri- 
pides, as  follows  :  He  tells  us  that  in  the  opinion  »f  some  speculators  "  heaven  and 
earth  had,  according  to  the  original  constitution  of  things,  but  one  form,^he  natural 
properties  of  the  two  b'eing  Vended  ;  but  that  afterwards  .  when  the  body  of  the  one 
had  become  separated  from  that  of  the  other,  the  world  assumed  that  regular  arrange- 
ment which  we  now  witness,"  etc.  (Kara  yap  r^v  e'£  apx^s  ruv  8\cav  ffvffraffiv  piav 
exeiv  ISeav  ovpav6v  re  Kal  yijv,  nffj,iy/j.evris  avroiv  rrjs  <j>vffeces-  faera  Se  ravra  Sia- 
ffrdvrwv  rlav  fftafj-iruv  air'  a\\'fi\aiv  rbv  fnei?  K6fffj.ov  irepi\af3e'tv  atraffav  r}jv  &p<afj.evnv  , 
ev  avrf  ffvvra£iv,  K.T.A..).  After  giving  the  details  of  ijiis  development,  he  concludes  : 
"  And  in  regard  to  the  nature  of  the  universe,  Euripides,  who  was  a  disciple  of 
Anaxagoras,  the  physical  philosopher,  does  not  appear  to  have  differed  from  the  views 
which  have  been  stated  "   (eoj/ce  Se  irepl  TTJS  rwv  $\tav  tyvvews  ou5'  EvpnriSris  Sia- 
fyuvelv  rols  TrpoeipTj/xeVois,  /xoflrjTTjs  &v  'Afa^ayopov  rov  <pv<riKov).     He  then  quotes 
the  lines  given  in  the  text. 

43  See  W.  Dindorf's  Euripides,  vol.  ii.  p.  915,  ed.  Oxford,  1833. 


28  THE    INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 

pides,  which  is  there  preserved,  we  find  that  a  doctrine,  partly-  similar 
to  that  of  the  Aitareya  Brahmana  adduced  above,  regarding  heaven 
and  earth,  is  ascribed  to  the  philosopher  Anaxagoras,  and  was  ex-» 
pressed  by  his  disciple  the  poet  :  . 

'A.va£ay6pq  irpofff<poirt}fffv  EvpnrlSijs.  'A.val;ay6pov  «5e  \6yos  effrlv  Sn  iravra, 
Iv  iraffiv,  elra  vtrrepov  Ste/cpfthj.  juero  ravra  dijufATjtre  Ka\  Sowporei,  K.a.1  eirl  rb  airo- 
ptarepov  tfyaye  rbv  \6yov.  6/j.o\oyei  dlv  rt]v  $i$a.(Tita\iav  T^\V  apxaiav  Sia  TTJS 

KOVK  e/jibs  &  fJ.vQis,  a\\'  ffJ. 
&s  ovpav6s  T€  ydtd  T'  ?iv  nop 


riK'Tovffi  iravra  KavtSancav  els  tfxios 

SeVSpTj,  TTfreiva,  dripas,  ovs  B'  aXfit)  rptcpet, 

yevos  re  Qvt\T<av. 

"  Euripides  frequented  the  lectures  of  Anaxagoras.  Now  it  was  the 
theory  of  that  philosopher  that  all  things  were  confounded  (lit.  all 
things  were  in  all  things),  but  afterwards  became  separated.  Euripides 
afterwards  associated  with  Socrates,  and  became  doubtful  regarding 
the  theory.  He  accordingly  admits  the  ancient  doctrine  by  the 
mouth  of  Melanippe  :  '  The  saying  is  not  mine  but  came  from  my 
mother,  that  formerly  the  'Heaven  and  Earth  formed  one  substance  : 
but  when  they  were  separated  from  each  other,  they  gave  birfeh.  to  all 
things,  and  brought  them  forth  into  the  light,  trees,  birds,  beasts, 
fishes,  and  the  race  of  mortals.'  " 

The  appellation  of  mother  is  naturally  applied  to  the  earth,  as  the 
source  from  which  all  vegetable  products  spring,  as  well  as  the  home 
of  all  living  creatures.  This  is  remarked  by  Lucretius,  "  De  Eerum 
datura,"  in  those  lines,  v.  793  S.  : 

"  Nam  neque  de  cselo  c^oidisse  animalia  possunt, 
Nee  terrestria  de  salsis  exisse  lactmis  : 
Linquitur  ut  merito  maternum  nomen  adep^a        ' 
Terra  sit,  e  terra  quoniam  sunt  cuncta  creata,"  etc. 

And  again,  v.  821  : 

"  Quare  etiam  atque  etiam  maternum  nomen  adepta 
Terra  tenet  merito,  quoniam  genus  ipsa  creavit 

Humanum  atque  animal  prope  certo  tempore  fudit,"  etc. 

t 
And  in  illustration  of  the  idea  that  Heaven  is  the  father  of  all  things, 

I  may  quote  his  words,  ii.  991  : 

"  Denique  easiest!  sumus  omnes  semine  oriundi  : 
Omnibus  ille  idem  pater  est,  unde  alma  liquentis 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    EIG-VEDA.  29 

»  Umoris  guttas  mater  cum  terra  recepit,44 
Feta  parit  nitidas  fruges  arbustaque  laeta 
Et  genus  humanum,"  etc. 

'And  ii.  998  : 

"  Qua  propter  merito  mafernum  nomen  adepta  est. 
Cedit  idem  retrc?de  terra  quod  fuit  ante, 
In  terra^,  et  quod  missumst  ex  setheris  oris 
Id  rursum  cadi  rellatum  templa  receptant." 

See  also  v.  799  :  *  • 

"  Quo  minus  est  mirum,  si  turn  sunt  p"lura  coorta 
Et  majora,  nova  tellure  atque  sthere  adulta,"  etc. 

My  attention  was  drawn  to  these  passages  -by  finding  them  referred  to 
in  Professor  Sellar's  "  Roman  Poets  of  the  Bepublic,"  pp.  236,  247, 
and  276.  See  also  Lucretius  i.  250  : 

Postremo  pereunt  imbres,  ubi  eos  pater  aether 
In  gremium  matris  terrai  praecipitavit ; 

And  v.  318  :  f 

Denique  jam  tuere  boc,  circum  supraque  quod  omnem, 
Continet  amplexu  terrain  :      • 

See  also  PacuvHus  86,  quoted  by  Mr.  Munro  in  his  Notes  on  Lucretius 
v.  318,  and  Yirgil,  Georgics  ii.  325,  cited  in  his  note  on  Lucr.  i.  250  : 

*  Turn  pater  omnipotens  fecundis  imbribus  aetber 
Conjugis  in  gremium  laetae  descendit  et  omnis 
Magnus  alit  magno  commixtus  corpore  fetus. 

Mr.  Munro  there  remarks:  "From  the  Yedas  to  the  Pervigilium 
Veneris  poets  and  philosophers  love,  to  celebrate  this  union  of  ether 
and  earth,  ether  as  father  descending  in  showers  into  the  lap  of  mother 
earth."  See  the  same  author's  notes  on  Lucr.  ii.  991. 45  Tacitus,  too, 
informs  us«in  his  Germania,  40 :  Nee  quidquam  notabile  in  singulis  nisi 
quod  in,commune  Ertham,  it  ed  Terram  hiltrem,  colunt,  eamque  inter- 
venire  rebus  homir\um,  ^.nvehi  populis  arbitrantur.46  "  Nor*  is  there 
anything  in  regard  to  particular  points  which  deserves  remark  except 
that  they  all  together  worship  Ertha,  i.e.  Mother  Earth,  and  think 
that  she  intervenes  in  the  affairs  of  men,  and  moves  round  among  the  j 
nations."  , 

• 

44  Compare  A.V.  xii.  1,  12,  42,  quoted  above,  p.  23. 

45  See  also  Professor  Max  Muller's  Lectures  on  Language,  ii.  459,  and  Mr.  C. 
Bruce's  paper  "  On  tbe  Vedic  Conception  of  tbe  Earth,"  Journ.  B.  A.  S.  xix.  330  ff. 

46  Ed.  F.  Ritter  (Cambridge  and  London,  1848)  who   substitutes  Ertham  for  the 
common  reading  Nertbam.     See  his  Notes  in  loco,  and  on  Section  9. 


30  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 


(3)  Heaven  and  earth  elsewhere  spoken  of  as  created. 

On  the  other  hand,  Heaven  and  Earth  are  spoken  of  in  other  places 
as  themselves  created.  Tttus  it  is  said  (i*.  160,  4;  iv.  56,  3),  that  he 
who  produced  heaven  and  earth  must  have  been  the  most  skilful 
artizan  of  all  the  gods  47  (ay  am  devdndm  apasdm  apastamb  yo  jajdna 
rodasl  vihasambhuvd  :  sa  it  svapd  Ihifoaneshu  dsa  ycth  ime  dydva-pri- 
thivl  jajdna}.  Again,  Indra  is'-described  as  their  creator  (janitd  divo 
janita  prithivydh}  (vi.  30,  5  ;  viii.  36,  4)  ;  48  as  having  beautifully 
fashioned  them  by  his  power  and  skill  (x.  29,  6,  mdtre  nu  te  sumite 
Indra  purvl  dyaur  majmand  prithivl  kdvyena}  •  as  having  generated^ 
from  his  own  body  the  father  and  the  mother  (by  which  heaven 
and  earth  are  clearly  intended  (x.  54,  3.  Kah  u  nu  te  mahimanah 
samasya  asmat  purve  rishayo  antam  dpuh  \  yan  mdtaram  cha 
pitaram  cha,  sdlcam  ajanayat^ds  tanvah  svdydh)  ;  as  having  bestowed 
them  on  his  worshippers  (iii.  34,  8.  Sasdna  yah  prithivlm  dydm 
utemdm}  ;  as  sustaining  and  upholding  them  (dadhdra  yah  prithivlm 
dydm  utemdm)  (iii.  32,  8^  iii.  44,  3;  vi.  17,  7;  x.  55,  I);49  as 
grasping  them  it^his  hand  (iii.  30,  5.  Ime  chid  Indra  rodasl  apdre  yat 
samgribhndh  maghavan  Icdsir  it  te}  ;  as  stretching  them  out  like  a  hide 
(viii.  6.  5.  Ojas  tad  asya  titvishe  ubhe  yat  samavarttayat  \  Indras  char- 
meva  rodasl}.  The  same  deity  is  elsewhere  (vi.  30,  1)  said  to  transcend 
heaven  and  earth,  which  are  equal  to  only  a  half  of  the  god  50  (Pra 

47  This  phrase  is,  perhaps,  primarily  meant  as  an  eulogy  of  the  heaven  and  earth, 
by  expressing  that,.he  must  have  been  a  most  glorious  being  who  was  the  author  of 
so  grand  a  production  as  heaven  and  earth  (see  Sayana  on  R.V.  i.  160,  *4,  who  says, 
"  that  having  in  the  previnis  /erst    magnified  the  heaven  #nd  earth  by  lauding 
their  son  tfre  sun,  the  poet  now  magnifies  them  by  exalting  their  maker  ").     But  it 
also  appears  to  intimate  that,  in  the  idea  of  the  writA,  the  heaven  and  earth  were, 
after  all,  produced  by  some  greater  being.     In  iv.  17,  4,  it  is  similarly  said  that  "  the 
maker  of  Indra  was  a  most  skilful  artist." 

48  The  A.V.  xii.  1.  10,  says:  "May  our  mother  the  earth  whom  Indra,  the  lord 
•  of  power,  made,  friendly  to  himself,  give  milk  to  me  her  son  (Indro  yam  chakre  at- 

niane  anamitram  sachlpatih  \  sr,  no  bhumir  visrijatam  matd  putraya  me  pay  ah. 

49  Who  are  the  sons  or  children  o/  Indra's  brother  (bhratuh  putran}  mentioned  in 
this  verse,  and  who  is  the  brother  ? 

5°  In  viii.  59,  5,  it  is  said  :  "  If,  Indra,  a  hundred  heavens  and  a  hundred  earths 
were  thine,  a  thousand  suns  could  not  equal  thee,  thunderer,  nor  anything  born, 
nor  both  worlds"  (yad  dyavah  Indra  te  satam  satam  bhumir  uta  syuh  \  na  tva  vajrin 
sahasram  suryah  anu  najatam  ashta  rodasl). 


AS  REPRESENTED  IN  THE  RIG-VEDA.  31 

ririche  ttivah  Indrah  prithivydh  arddJiam  id  asya  prati  rodasl  ubhe); 
and  they  are  further  represented  as  following  him  as  a  chariot  wheel  a 
horse  (viii.  6,  38.  Anu  'tvd  rodasl  ubhe  chakram  na  vartti  etasam) ;  as 
bowing  down  before  him  (i.  131,  1.  Indrdya-Jii  Dyaur  asuro  anamnata 
Indrdya  mdhl  prithivl  varlmabhih] ; 51  as  trembling  from  fear  of  him  (iv. 
17,  2.  Tava  tvisho  janiman  rejata  Dyauh  rejad  bhumir  bhiyasd  svasya 
many  oh 52  |  See  also  iv.  22,  3  f. ;  ^vi.  17,  9 ;  viii.  86,  14) ;  as  being  dis- 
turbed by  his  greatness  (vii.  23,  3.  Vi  bddhishta  rodasl  mahitvd  Indrah) ; 
as  subject  to  his  dominion  (x.  89, 10.  Indro  divah  Indrah  Ise  prithi- 
vyah} ;  and  as  doing  homage  to  his  power  (viii.  82,  12.  Adha  te  apra- 
tishJMtdm  devl  sushmam  saparyatah  \  ubhe  suiipra  rodasl).  The  creation 
of  heaven  and  earth  is  also  ascribed  to  other  deities,  as  to  Soma  and 
Pushan  (ii.  40,  1.  Somdpushand  janand  raylndm  janand  divo  j'andnd 
prithivydh) ;  to  Soma  (ix.  98,  9.  'Sa  vdm  yajneshu  Mdnavl  Indur 
janishta  rodasl  \  devo  devl  ityddi  \ 53  See  also  ix.  90,  1 ;  ix.  96,  5)  ;  to 
Dhatri  (x.  190,  3.  Suryd-chandramasau  Dhdtd  yathapurvam,5i  akal- 
payat  \  divam  cha  prithivlm  cha  antariksham  atho  svcth);  to  Hiranya- 
garbha  (x.  121f  9.  Md  no  himslj  janitd  yah  prithivydh  yo  vd  divam 
satyadharmd  jajdna  \  Comp.  v.  5) ;  they  are*  declared  to  have  received 
their  shape  and  variety  of  forms,  from  Tvashtri,  though  themselves 
parents  (x.  110,  9.  Yah  ime  dydvdprithivl  janitrl  rupair  apimsad  bhu- 
vandni  visvd) ;  to  have  sprung  respectively  from  the  head  and  the  feet 
of  Purusha  (x.  90,  14.  Ndbhydh  asya  antariksham  slrshno  dyauh  sama- 
varttata  \  padbhydm  bhumih) ;  and  to  be  sustained  or  supported  by 
Mitra  (iii.  59,  1),  by  Savitri  (iv.  53,  2 ;  x.  149,  1.  Savitd  yantraih  pri- 

•> 

51  Heaven  (Dyaus)  is  here  styled  asurah,  "  the  divine,"  as  also  in  iii.  53,  7. 

52  It  might  at  first  sight  appear  as  if,  accordiDg  to  th<j  fourth  verse  of  this  hymn 
(iv.  17,  4),  the  Heaven,  Dyaus,  was  the  father  of  Imdra   (see  Professor-,  Wilson's 
translation,  vol.  iii.  p.  131).     J5ut  the  meaning  seems  to  be  :  "  The  Heaven  esteemed 
that  thy  father  was  a  stalwart  hero :   he  was  a  most  skilful  artist  who   made 
Indra,  who  produced  <the  celestial  thunderer,  unshaken,  as  the  world  (cannot  be 
shaken)  from  its  place."     This  is  confirmed  by  verse  1,  which  says  that  the  Hedv^n 
acknowledged  Indra's  power ;  and  by  verse  2,  which  represents  it  as  trembling  at  his 
birth.     See  also  vi.  72,  3. 

53  The  two  worlds,  rodasl,  are  here  styled  devl,  "divine,"  and  manavl,  "human," 
or  "connected  with  men,"  or  "friendly  to  men."  ' 

54  It  is  remarkable  that  here  Dhatri  is  said  to  have  formed  the  sun,  moon,  sky, 
earth,  air,  and  heaven,  as  before ;  as  if,  agreeably  to  the  Puranic  conception,  they 
had  previously  existed,  and  been  destroyed.     See  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  2nd  ed. 
pp.  51,  66,  76. 


32 

thivlm  aramndd  askambhane  Savitd  dydm  adrimhat),  by  Varum*  (vi.  70, 
1 ;  vii.  86,  1 ;  viii.  42,  1),  by  Indra  and  Soma  (vi.  72,  2),  by  Soma 
(ix.  87,  2),  and  by  Hiranyagarbha  (x.  121,  5).  « 

i 
(4)  Speculations  about  their  origin. 

In  other  passages  we  encounter  various  speculations (  about  their 
origin.  In  i.  185,  1,  the  perplexed  poet  enquires,  "Which  of 
these  two  was  the  first,55  atid  which  the  last?  How  have  they 
been  produced?  Sages,  who  knows?"  (Katard  purvd  Icatard  apard 
ayoh  kathd  jdte  kavayoh  Jco  vi  veda).56  In  vii.  34,  2,  the  waters  are 
said  to  know  the  birth-place  of  heaven  and  earth  (viduh  prithivydh 
divo  janitram  srinvanti  dpo  adha  ksharantlh}.  In  x.  31,  7,  the  Rishi 
asks:  "What  was  the  forest,  w.hat  was  the  tree,  from  which  they 
fashioned  the  heaven  and  the  earth,  which  abide  undecaying  and  per- 
petual, (whilst)  the  days  ?Jid  many  dawns  have  disappeared  ?  "  (Mm 
svid  vanam  kah  u  sa  vrikshah  dsa  yato  dydvd-prithivl  nishtatakshuh  \ 
samtasthdne  ajare  itautl  alidni  purvir  ushaso  jaranta}.  This  question  is 
repeated  in  x.  81,  4 ; 57  and  in  the  same  hymn  (verses  2  and  3)  the 
creation  of  heaven  and  earth  is  ascribed  to  the  sole  agency  of  the  god 
Visvakarman : 58  2.  "  What  was  the  support,  what  and  how1  was  the 
basis  from  which  by  his  might  the  all-seeing  Visvakarman  produced 
the  earth,  and  spread  out  the  sky  ?  3.  The  one  god  who  has  on  every 
side  eyes,  faces,  arms,  and  feet,  blows  with  his  arms  and  his  wings, 
when  producing  the  heaven  and  earth  "  (2.  Kim  svid  dsld  adhishthdnam 
drambhanam  katamat  svit  kathd  dslt  \  yato  bhumim  janayan  Visvakarmd 
vi  dydm  aurnod  mahind  visvachakshdh  \  3.  Visrataschalcshur.  uta  visvato- 

mukho  msvatoldhur  utoaviskafaspdt  \  sam  Idhubhyam  dhamati  sam  pata- 
r-  • 

55  S'atap.  Br.  xiv.  1,  2,  10,  It/am  prilhivt  bhutasyc,  praihama-ja,  "  This  earth  is 
the  firstborn  of  created  things." 

56  Compare  Professor  Muller's  Lectures  on  Language,  ii.  488,  and  Nirukta  iii.  22. 

57  See  also  the  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  8,  9,  6,  where  the  answer  is  given,  "  Brahma  was  the 
forest,  Brahma  was  that  tree  from  which  they  fashioned  heaven  and  earth  "  (Brahma 
vanam  Brahma  sa  vrikshah psld  yato  dyavaprithivl  nishtatakshuh}.     In  A.V.  xii.  1, 
60,  Visvakarman  is  said  to  have  sought  the  earth  with  an  oblation  when  she  had 
entered  into  the  fluid  atmosphere  (yam  anvaichhad  Visvakarma  antar  arnave  rajasi 
pravishtatn).     Compare  the  accounts  in  the  Brahmanas  and  Puranas  of  the  earth 
being  sunk  beneath  the  waters  at  the  creation,  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  2nd  ed.  pp. 
50-55,  76. 

68  See  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  4  ff.,  and  Haug's  Aitareya  Brahmaua,  ii.  299. 


AS    ^PRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA.  33 

trair  dydvd-bhuml  janayam  devah  ekah).  In  x.  72,  which  will  be 
quoted  in  the  next  section,  a  different  account  is  given  of  the  origin  of 
heaven  and  earth.  In  R.V.  x.  129,  1,  it  is  said  that  originally  there 
was  "  nothing  either  non-existent  or  existenj,  no  atmosphere  or  sky 
beyond  "  (na  asad  dsld  no  sad  dslt  taddnlm  na  dsld  rajo  no  vyoma  paro 
yat) ;  and  in  Taiit.  Br.  ii.  2,  9,  1  ff.,  it  is  declared,  that  "formerly 
nothing  existed,  neither  heaven,  nor  earth,  nor  atmosphere,"  and  their 
formation  is  described:  "That,  being  non-existent,  resolved,  'Let  me 
become,'  "  etc.  (idam  vai  agre  naiva  kinchana  dslt  \  na  dyaur  dslt  \  na 
prithivl  |  na  antariksham  \  tad  asad  eva  san  mano  'kuruta  "  sydm"  iti  \ 
The  passage  is  quoted  at  length  in  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  27  ff.) 

It  is,  as  we  have  already  seen  (p.  24),  a  conception  of  the  Greek,  as 
well  as  of  the  oldest  Indian,  mythology,  that  the  gods  sprang  from 
Heaven  and  earth  (in  the  former  case  Ouranos  and  Gaia).  The  Indian 
god  who  is  represented  in  the  Veda  as  the  consort  of  the  Earth  and  the 
progenitor  of  the  gods,  does  not,  however,  as  we  have  seen,  bear  the  same 
name  as  the  corresponding  divinity  among  the  Greeks,  but  is  called  Dyaus, 
or  Dyamhpitart  But  this  latter  name  is  in  its  origin  identical  with  Zeus, 
or  Zeus  pater,  and  Jupiter,  or  Diespiter,  the*appellations  given  to  the 
Bupremetgod  of  the  Greeks  and  Romans,59  whom  Hesfod  represents  as 
the  grandson  of  Ouranos.  On  the  other  hand,  the  name  of  Ouranos 
corresponds  to  that  of  the  Indian  deity  Varuna,  who,  though  he  is  not 
regarded  as  the  progenitor  of  the  gods,  yet,  as  we  shall  see  more  fully 
in  a  future  section,  is  considered  to* coincide  with  Ouranos  in  repre- 
senting the  sky. 

The  word  Prithivl,  on  the  other  hand,  which  in  mostt  parts  of  t&e 
Rig- veda  is*  used  for  Earth,  has  no  connection  with  any  Greek  wor'd  of 
the  same* meaning.  *  It  seems,  however,  originally  to  have  been  merely 
an  epithet,  meaning" "  bn>ad ;" 60  and  may  have  supplanted  the  older 

59  For  the  proof  of  the  identity  of  Dyaus  and  Zeus,  see  Prof.  Miiller'g  Lectures  on 
Language,  i.  11;  ii.  425-434;  Prof.  M.  Breal,  "Hercule  et  Cacus,"  102;  Hartung, 
"Religion  und  Mythologie  der  Griechen,"  ii.  of. ;  iii.  1  ff.    See  also  ;li.  pp.  45  f.,  and 
and  76  f.  of  the  last-named  work,  where  Hera,  the  consort  of  Zeus,  {s  described  as  a 
representative  of  the  earth,  and  where  Uranos  <rnd  Gaea,  Kronos  imd  Rhea,  Zeus 
and  Hera,  though  described  in  the  Greek  mythology  as  successive  pairs  of  deities, 
are  yet  asserted  to  be  essentially  the  same  couples,  with  altered  names. 

60  Compare  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  52,  53,  two  passf-.^es  from  the 
Taittirlya  Sanhita  and  Brahmana,  in  which  the  formation  of  the  earth  is  described, 

3 


34  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENEKALLY, 

word  Gnu,  which  (with  Gmd  and  Jma)  stands  at  the  head  of  tlb  earliest 
Indian  vocabulary,  the  Nighantu,  as  one  of  the  synonyms  of  Prithivi 
(earth),  and  which  closely  resembles  the  Greek  Tola  or  FT).  In  this  wa»j 
Gaur  mutar  may  possibly  have  once  corresponded  to  the  r^  i^T-np  or 
Arinfrrip  of  the  Greeks.  « 

Professor  Benfey  (Orient  und  Occident,  i.  48,  note  27 5f  which  the 
German  reader  may  consult),  and  M.  Michel  Breal^Hercule  et  Cacus, 
p.  101)  are  of  opinion  that  the  functions  which  in  the  older  Indian 
mythology  were  assigned  to  Dyaus,  were  at  a  later  period  transferred 
to  Indra,  whose  characteristics  will  form  the  subject  of  a  later  section. 


and  in  •which  it  is  said  to  have  derived  the  name  of  Prithivi  from  its  being  extended 
(aprathata).  See  also  R.V.  ii.  15,  2,  sa  dharayat  prithivim  paprathat  cha  \  "He 
upheld  the  earth  (prithivt),  and  spread  it  out"  (paprathat). 


f       r 


AS  ^REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA.  35 


SECTION    III. 

ADITI."* 

I  proceed  to  Aditi,  who  is,  in  idea  at  least,  if  not  chronologically, 
one  of  the  older  Indian  deities,  and  who  is  the  only  goddess,  except 
Nishtigri 62  and  Ushas,  whom  I  have  noticed  as  specified  hy  name  in 
the  E.V.  as  the  mother  of  any  of  the  gods. 

(1)  The  epithets  ly  which  sh^is  characterized. 

Though  not  the  subject  of  any  separate  hymn,  Aditi  is  an  object  of  fre- 
quent celebration  in  the  Rig-veda,  where  she  is  supplicated  for  blessings 
on  children  and  cattle  (as  in  i.  43,  2.  yathd  noAditih  karat  pdsve  nribhyo 
yathd  gave  \  yathd  tolcdya  rudriyani),  for  protection  ailti  for  forgiveness. 
She  is  represented,  as  we  have  already  seen  (p.  13),  as  the  mother 
of  Varuna  and  some  of  the  other  deities.  In  the  Nighantu,  or 
ancient  vocabulary  prefixed  to  the  Nirukta,  the  word  Aditi  is  given 
a  synonym  (1)  of  prithivi,  the  earth;  (2)  of  vach,  voice ;  (3)  of  go, 
cow;63  and  (4)  in  the  dual,  of  dydvd-prithivyau,  heaven  and  earth 
(Mgh.  i.  1,  11  ;  2,  11 ;  3,  30).  In  the  Mrukta  (iv.  22)  she  is  defined 
as  the  mighty  mother  of  the  gods  (adlnd  deva-mdtd).^  In  another  part 
•  •  • 

61  Before  commencing  the  revision  of  this  section,  I  had  received  the  Jfrst  vol.  of 
Prof.  Miiller's  translation  of  the  Rig-veda,  which  contains,  pp.  230-251,  an  able 
dissertation  on  Aditi.     See  the  same  author's  Lectures  on  Language,  ii.  500. 

62  See  note  in  p.  13. 

63  Compare  R.V.  viii.  90,  15,  gam  anagam  aditim  ;  and  Vaj.  Sanh.  xiii.  43,  where 
Agni  is  supplicated  not  to  injure  her   (gam  ma  himsir  Aditim  virajam),  and  49* 
(ghritairi  duhnnam  aditim  janaya).  * 

«*  In  R.V.  i.  113,  19.  Ushas  (the  dawn)  is  styled  "the  mother  of  the  gods,  and  the 
manifestation  of  Aditi"  (mata  devanam  Aditer  ariikam)  ;  or,  as  Sayana  explains,  the 
rival  of  Aditi,  from  her  appearing  to  call  all  the  gods  into  existence  when  they  are 
worshipped  in  the  morning,  as  Aditi  really  gave  them  birth.  Compare  i.  115,  1. 
Miiller,  Transl.  of  R.V.  i.  231,  renders  Aditer  ariikam,  "the  face  of  Aditi." 


36  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY, 

(xi.  22)  of  the  same  work  (where  the  different  gods  are  taken  up  in  the 
order  in  which  they  are  found  in  the  list  in  the  Mghantu,  chap.  5)  she 
is  placed  at  the  head  of  the  female  divinities  of  the  intermediate  region" 
(atha  ato  madhya-stdndh  sfriyah  \  tdsdm  Aditih  pratJiamdgdminl  Iha- 
vati).  In  numerous  texts  of  the  E-.V.  Aditi  is  styled  the  "  goddess," 
or  the  "divine"  (devl)  (as  in  iv.  55,  3,  7;  v.  51,  llr;  vi.,50,  1  ;  vii. 
38,  4;  vii.  40,  2  ;  viii.  25,  10  ;  viii.  $7,  5  ;  viii.  56,,  10),  the  "  irre- 
sistible goddess  "  (devl  Aditir  a^arvd,  ii.  40,  6 ;  vii.  40,  4  ;  x.  92,  14), 
"  the  luminous,65  the  supporter  of  creatures,  the  celestial "  (jyotish- 
matlm  Aditim  dhdrayat-kshitim66  svarvatlm,  i.  136,  3),  the  "widely 
expanded "  (uru-vyachdh,61  v.  46,  6),  the  friend  of  all  men "  (visva- 
janydtn,  vii.  10,  4).  In  v.  69,  3,  the  rishi  exclaims  :  "In  the  morning 
I  continually  invoke  the  divine  Aditi,  at  mid-day,  at  the  setting  M  of 
the  sun"  (prdtar  devim  Aditim  johavlmi  madhyandine  uditd  suryasya.) 
In  i.  185,  3,  her  gifts — pure,  unassailable^  celestial,  imperishable,  and 
inspiring  veneration, — are  supplicated  (aneho  ddtram  Aditer  anarvam  huve 
svarvad  avadham  namasvat};  and  in  Another  place  (i.  166,  12)  the  large 
blessings  conferred  by  the  Maruts  are  compared  to  the  beneficent  deeds 
of  Aditi  (dlrgham  vo  ddtram  Aditer  iva  vratam).69  In  iv.  55,  3,  she  i^ 
styled  Pastya,  which  Professor  Roth  understands  to  mean  a  h»usehold 
goddess  (comp.  Miiller,  p.  248).  In  the  Vaj.  S.  she  is  thus  celebrated, 
21,5  (=A.Y.  vii.  6,  2) :  "  Let  us  invoke  to  aid  us  the  great  mother 
of  the  devout,  the  mistress  of  the  ceremonial,  the  strong  in  might,  the 
undecaying,  the  widely-extended,  the  protecting,  the  skilfully  guiding 
Aditi"  (maltim  u  shu  mdtarafh  suvratdndm  ritasya patriim  avase  huvema  \ 
tuvikshatrdm  ajvrantlm  uruchim  susarmdnam  Aditim  supranltim. 

,      «  » 

S5  See  Roth  in  Journ.  Germ.  Or.  Society,  vi.  69  ;  and  compare  R.V.  vu.  82,  10  : 
"  We  celebrate  the  beneficent  light  of  Aditi,"  etc.  (avafyramjyotiK). 

66  The  same  epithet,  dharayat-kshiti,  is,  in  R.V.  x.  132,  2,  applied  to  Mitra  and 
Vamna,  the  sons  of  Aditi.  • 

67  Compare  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  4,  2,  7 :  Sena  ha  nama  prithivl  dhananjaya  visvavyachah 
,  Aditih  suryatvak. 

68  The  word  uditi  here  is  understood  both  by  Roth  (*.#.),  by  Kuhn  (in  his  review 
of  this  essay),  and  MUller  (Transl.  R.V.  i.  231,  232),  to  signify  the  setting  of  the  sun. 

89  Miiller,  p.   199,  translates  thS :  "  your  bounty  extends  as  far  as  the  sway  of 
Aditi."     See  his  note  on  the  different  senses  of  vrata,  pp.  225  ff. 


AS  ^REPRESENTED  IN  THE  RIG-VEDA.  37 

I 

(2)  Origin  of  the  conception  of  Aditi  according  to  Professors  Roth  and 

Mutter. 

• 

In  the  Lexicon  of  Bb'htlingk  and  Both  the  word  aditi  is  taken  (in 
addition  to  other  senses  which  are  also  assigned)  to  signify  "  infinity, 
especially  the  boundlessness  of  heaven  in  opposition  to  the  finiteness  of 
the  earth,  and  its  spaces ;  "  and  this  signification  is  considered  to  be 
personified  in  the  goddess  Aditi.  In  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta, 
pp.  150  f.  Professor  Eoth  had  understood  the  word  to  mean  "  inviola- 
bility," "imperishableness  j"  and  when  personified  as  a  goddess,  to  denote 
eternity,  her  sons  the  Adityas  being  the  sons  of  eternity,  and  the  solar 
and  luminous  gods  Varuna,  Mitra,  Aryaman,  Bhaga,  etc.,  being  pre- 
eminently the  eternal  deities,  as  light  was  regarded  as  the  immaterial 
and  eternal  principle.  In  his  essay  on  the  highest  gods  of  the  Arian 
nations  (Journ.  of  the  German  Or.  Society,  vi.  68  f.)  the  same  writer 
says:  "Aditi,  eternity,  or  the  eternal,  if  the  element  which  sustains, 
and  is  sustained  by,  the  Aditya#.  This  conception,  owing  to  the 
character  of  vhat  it  embraces,  had  not  in  the  Yedas  been  carried  out 
into  a  definite  personification,  though  the*  beginings  of  such  are  not 

wanting This  eternal  and  inviolable  principle,  in  which  the 

Adityas  live,  and  which  constitutes  their  essence,  is  the  celestial 
light." 

In  a  note  on  E.V.  i.  166,  12  (Trans,  of  the  Eig-veda,  i.  230), 
Professor  Miiller  says  that  "  Aditiy  an  ancient  god  or  goddess,  is  in 
reality  the  earliest  name  invented  to  express  the  Infinite;  not  the 
Infinite  as  the  result  of  a  long  process  of  abstract  reasoning,  but  the 
visible  Infinite,  visible  by  the  naked  eye,  the  endless  expanse,  beyond 
the  earth,  beyond»the  clouds,  beyond  th*e  sky.*'  And  in  the  next  page 
he  goes  on  to  remark  tjiat  "  if  we  keep  this  original  conception  (the 
conception  which  he  has  explained  in  these  two  pages)  of  Aditi  clearly 
before  us,  the  various  forms  which  Aditi  assumes,  even  in  the  hymns 
of  the  Veda,  will  not  seem  incoherent. 

» 
(3)  Aditi  as  the  mother*  of  the  Adityas. 

I  proceed  to  adduce  some  of  the  other  texts  in  which  Aditi  is  de- 
scribed and  characterized,  and  begin  with  those  in  which  she  is  repre- 
sented as  the  mother  of  Yaruna  and  the  other  kindred  gods : 


38  THE  INDIAN   GODS  GENERALLY, 

viii.  25,  3.  Td  mdtd  visvavedasd  asurydya  pramahasd  \  mahl  j'ajdna 
Aditir  ritdvarl  \  "The  mother,  the  great,  the  holy  Aditi,  brought 
forth  these  twain  (Mitra  and  Varuna),  the  mighty  lords  of  all  wealth, 
that  they  might  exercise  divine  power." 

viii.  47,  9.  Aditir  nah  urushyatu  Aditir  sarma  yachhatu  \  mdtd  Mi- 
trasya  revato  Aryamno  Varunasya  cha  anehasah  \  "  May  Aditi  defend 
us,  may  Aditi  grant  us  protection,  she  who  is  the  mother  of  the  opulent 
Mitra,  of  Aryaman,  and  of  the  cinless  Varuna.  See  also  x.  36,  3,  and 
x. 'l32,  6;  and  A.V.  v.  1,  9. 

In  R.V.  ii.  27,  7,  she  is  styled  rdja-putrd,"10  "the  mother  of  kings ;" 
in  iii.  4,  11,  su-putrd,  "  the  mother  of  excellent  sons;  "  in  viii.  56,  11, 
as  ugra-putrd,  "the  mother  of  powerful  sons  ;  "  and  in  Atharva-veda, 
iii.  8*  2;  xi.  1,  11,  "the  divine  Aditi,  mother  of  heroes"  (sura-putrd). 
All  these  epithets  have  obviously  reference  to  Varuna  and  the  other 
Adityas  as  her  offspring.  InrA.Y.  viii.  9,  21,  she  is  called  Aditi,  who 
had  an  eight-fold  parturition,  who  had  eight  sons  "  (ashta-yonir  Aditir 
ashtaputrd).  In  viii.  90,  15,  (referred  to  by  Professor  Miiller  in  his 
Lectures  ii.  501,  and  in  his  Trans,  of  the  R.V.  i.  p.  237),  Aditi  appears 
to  be  described  as  t  the  daughter  of  the  Vasus,  the  sister  of  the  Adityas, 
and  the  mother  of  Rudras  (mdtd  rudrdndm  duhitd  vasundm  svaSd  "dit- 
ydndm  amritasya  ndbhih  \  pra  nu  vochaih  chikitmhe  jandya  md  gam  and- 
gdm  Aditim  vadhishta). 

In  the  Sama-veda  (=A.V.  vi.  4,  1)  the  brothers  as  well  as  the  sons 
of  Aditi  appear  to  be  mentioned,  i.  299 :  "  May  Tvashtri,  Parjanya, 
and  Brahmanaspati  [preserve]  our  divine  utterance.  May  Aditi  with 
(her)  sons  and  brothers  preserve  our  invincible  and  protecting  utter- 
ance "  71  (Tvashtd  no  daivpannyctjhah  Parjanyo  Brahmanaspatih  \  putrair 
bhrdtribjii*  Aditir  nu  pdtu  no  dushtaram  trdmanam  vachah) .  Who  her 
brothers  may  be,  does  not  appear. 

(4)  Is  Aditi  ever  identified  with  the  sky  ? 

In  another  passage  of  fhe  R.V.  x.  63,  2,  Aditi  is  thus  mentioned, 
along  with  the  waters,  and  the^arth,  as  one  of  the  sources  from  wnich 

70  In  ii.  27,  1,  the  epithet  rajabhyah,  "  kings,"  is  applied  to  all  the  six  Adityas 
there  named. 

71  Benfey,  however,  understands  the  sons  and  brothers  to  be  those  of  the  worshipper. 
For  tramanam  vachah  the  A.V.  reads  trayamanam  sahah,  "delivering  force." 


AS  REPRESENTED  IN  THE  RIG-VEDA.  39 

the  gods' had  been  generated:  "All  your  names,  ye  gods,  are  to  be 
revered,  adored,  and  worshipped ;  ye  who  were  born  from  Aditi,72  from 
the  waters,  ye  who  are  born  from  the  earth,  listen  here  to  my  invo- 
cation" (Visvd  hi  vo  namasydni  vandyd  ndmdry  devdh  uta  yajniydni  vah  \ 
ye  sthajdtdh  Aditer  adlkyas  pari  ye  prithivyds  te  me  iha  sruta  havam  |). 
In  this  passage  we  appear  to  find  the  same  triple  classification  of  gods 
as  celestial,  intermediate,  and  terrestrial  (comp.  A.V.  x.  9,  12),  which 
we  have  already  met  with  in  R.V.  i.  J.39,  II,73  and  in  the  Nirukta. 
The  gods  mentioned  in  the  verse  before  us  as  sprung  from  Aditi,  might 
thus  correspond  to  the  celestial  gods,  among  whom  the  Adityas  are 
specified  by  Yaska  as  the  first  class,  or  to  the  Adityas  alone.74 

The  hymn  before  us  proceeds  in  the  next  verse  (x.  63,  3) :  "Gladden, 
in  order  to  promote  our  well-being,  those  Adityas,  who  are  invigorated 
by  hymns,  the  bringers  of  vigour,  the  energetic,  to  whom  their  mother 

the   sky,    Aditi,   (or  the  infinite   sky),75  towering  to  the  empyrean, 

» 

72  Roth,  in  his  Lexicon,  understands  the  word  Aditi  in  this  passage  to  mean  "  in- 
finity," the  boundlessness  of  heaven  as  opposed  to  the  limitation  of  earth. 

73  The  same  threefold  origin  of  the  gods,  together  with  the  use  of  the  word 
"waters,"  to  denote  the  intermediate  region,  is  found  also  in  x.  49,  2,  where  it  is 
said :  mafy  dhur  Indram  nama  devatah  divas  cha  gmas  cha  a$am  cha  jantavah  | 
"The  gods,  both  those  who  are  the  offspring  of  the  sky,  of  the  earth,  and  of  the 
[aerial]  waters,  have  assigned  to  me  the  name  of  Indra;  "  and  in  x.  65,  9,  the  poet 
says :  Parjanya-  Vata  vrishabha  purishina   Indra-  Vayu    Varuno  Mitro  Aryama  \ 
devan  Adityan  Aditim  havamahe  ye  parthivaso  divyaso  apsu  ye  \"  Parjanya,  Vata, 
vigorous   and  shedders  of  moisture,  Indra,  Vayu,  Varuna,  Mitra,  Aryaman:  We 
invoke  the  divine  Adityas,  Aditi,  those  (gods)  who  are  terrestrial,  celestial,  who 
(exist)  in  the  aerial  waters."     The  word  "waters"  seems  to  be  used  in  the  sense 
of  air,  in  ii.  38,  11,  and  x.  45,  1.     Compare  also  vii.  35,  11,  where  the  gods  are 
classed  as  difya,  parthiva,  and  apya  (celestial,  earthly,  and  aerial,  apsu  antarikshe 
bhavah :   £ayana),  v.  14   of  the   same  hymn  irlnre  they  are  divided  into  divya, 
parthiva,  (celestial,  earthly),  an&ffojata;  and  vi.  50,  11,  where  they  are  distinguished 
as  divya,  parthiva,  gojata,  a»d  apya  (celestial,  earthly,  gojata,  and  aerial.    Sayaiia 
on  R.V.  vii.  35, 14,  explains  gojata  as  Prisner  jatah  "born  of  Pris'ni."   On  vi.  50,  11, 
he  characterizes  Pris'ni  as  madhyamika  vcik,   "the  Vach  of  the  middle  region." 
In  the  former  of  these  two  passages,  if  the  threefold  division  of  gods  is  maintained 
gojata  ought  to  be  =  apya  :  but  in  the  latter  passage  we  have  a  fourfold  division, . 
and  as  the  apya  gods  are  one  of  the  four  classes,  gomta  ought  to  designate  a  dif- 
ferentclass.  Roth  so  explains  the  last  word  as  meaning  the  gods  of  the  starry  heaven. 

74  Nirukta  xii.  35 :  Athato  dyustJianah  devaganah  \  tesham  Adityah  prathamd- 
gamino  bhavanti  \ 

75  The  word  for  "sky"  here  is  Dyatts,  which,  if  my  rendering  is  correct,  must  in 
this  passage  be  regarded  as  feminine,  though,  as  we  have  seen,  it  is  generally  mas- 
culine, and  designated  as  father.    In  v.  59,  8,  the  words  dyaus  and  aditi  are  similarly 


40  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY, 

supplies  the  sweet  ambrosial  fluid"  (Yebhyo  mdtd  madhumat  pimate 
payah  plyusham  dyaur  aditir  adri-larhdh  \  uktha-iushmdn  vrishabhardn 
svapnasas  tan  Aditydn  anu  mada  svastaye).  This  verse,  in  which  it  ma) 
seem  that  Aditi  is  either  identified  with,  or  regarded  as  an  epithet  of, 
the  sky,  appears  rather  to  confirm  the  view  I'  have  taken  of  the  one 
which  precedes.  The  tenor  of  R.V.  x.  65,  9,  quoted  in  &.  preceding 
foot-note  (73),  seems,  however,  opposed,  to  this  identification  of  Aditi 
with  the  sky,  as  she  and  her^,  sons  the  Adityas  are  there  mentioned 
separately  from  the  other  gods  who  are  the  inhabitants  of  the  three 
different  spheres ;  though  possibly  the  last  named  classification  may  be 
meant  to  sum  up  all  the  gods  before  enumerated,  and  so  to  compre- 
hend the  Adityas  also. 

(5)  Aditi  seems  to  le  distinguished  from  the  Earth. 

But  even  if  we  suppose  that  in  the  preceding  passages  it  is  intended 
to  identify  Aditi  with  the  sky,  this  identification  is  very  far  from  being 
consistently  maintained  in  the  hymns.  And  it  is  equally  difficult  to 
take  the  word  as  a  constant  synonym  of  the  Earth.  For  although,  as 
we  have  seen,  Aditi  is  given  in  the  Nighantu  as  one  of  the  names  of 
the  Earth,  and  in  the  dual  as  equivalent  to  Heaven  and  Eaf  th,  and 
though  in  the  obscure  verse  R.V.  i.  72,  9,  and  in  Atharva-veda,  xiii. 
1,  38,  she  may  appear  to  be  identified  with  the  Earth,76  we  find  her  in 
many  passages  of  the  Rig-veda  mentioned  separately,  and  as  if  she 
were  distinct  from  both  the  one  5nd  the  other.  Thus,  in  iii.  54,  19, 
20,  it  is  said  :  "  S'rinotu  nah  prithivl  dyaur  utdpah  suryo  nakskattrair 
uru  antarikshayi  |  20  ...  Adityair  no  Aditih  srinotu  \  "May  the 
Earth  and  the  Heaven  he^r^us,  the  "Water,  the  Sun  with  the  stars, 
the  wide  Atmosphere  ....  20  May  Aditi  with  ther  Adityas  hear  us;" 

united  :  mimatu  dyaur  aditih,  etc.  Professor  Muller  takes  aditi  in  x.  63,  3,  as  well 
as  in  v.  59,  8,  for  an  adjective,  and  renders  the  first  half  of  the  former  verse  thus  : 
"  The  gods  to  whom  their  mother  yields  the  sweet  milk,  and  the  unbounded  sky,  as 
firm  as  a  rock,  their  food"  (pp.  243  and  249).  But  we  should  thus  have  to  take 
'Aditi  in  different  senses  in  two  adjoining  verses.  In  v.  2  of  this  hymn  Prof.  Muller 
himself  takes  Aditi  as  signifying  the  goddess  (p.  240).  For  adribarhas  see  Roth,  s.v., 
and  under  barhas.  r- 

76  R.V.  i.  72,  9.  Mahna  mahadbhih  Prithivl  vi  tasthe  mata  putrair  Aditir  dhaya&e 
veh  |  "The  earth,  the  mother,  Aditi  stood  in  power  with  her  mighty  sons  for  the 
support  of  the  bird."  The  word  prithivi  may,  however,  as  Professor  Muller  supposes, 
p.  243,  be  here  an  epithet.  A.V.  xiii.  1.  38 :  Yasah prithivya  Aditya  upasthe,  etc. 


AS  REPRESENTED  IN  THE  RIG-VEDA.  41 

in  v.  46,  6  :  Indrdgnl  Mitrdvaruna  Aditim  svah  prithivim  dydm  Marutah 
parvatdn  apah  \  huve  \  "  I  invoke  Indra,  Agni,  Mitra,  Yaruna,  Aditi, 
Eeaven,  Earth,  Sky,  etc.  ;  in  vi.  51,  5:  Dyaush  pitah  Prithivl  mdtar 
adhrug  Ague  Ihrdtar  Vasavo  mrilata  nah  \  vitye  Aditydh  Adite  sajoshd 
asmalhyam  karma  bahuhm  viyanta  \  "Father  Heaven,  benificent 
mother  Eartl},  brother  Agni,  Vasus,  be  gracious  to  us ;  all  ye  Adityas, 
Aditi,  united,  gran^  us  mighty  projection ;"  in  ix.  97,  58  :  Tan  no  Mitro 
Varuno  mdmahantdm  Aditih  Sindhuh  Prithivl  uta  Dyauh  \  "May 
Mitra,  Yaruna,  Aditi,  Ocean,  Earth,  and  Heaven  gladden  us  ;"  in  x.  36, 
2 :  Dyaus  cha  nah  Prithivl  cha  prachetasd  ritdvarl  rakshatdm  amhaso 
rishah  |  .  .  .  .  3.  Visvasmdn  no  Aditih  pdtu  amhaso  mdtd  mitrasya 
Varunasya  revatah  \\  2.  "  Heaven  and  Earth,  the  wise  and  holy, 
protect  us,"  etc.;  ....  3  :  "May  Aditi,  the  mother  of  Mitra  and  the 
opulent  Yaruna,  preserve  us  from  every  calamity."  See  also  x.  92,  11. 
Perhaps  the  most  distinct  text  of  all,  however,  is  x.  63,  10:  Sutra- 
mdnam  Prithivim  Dydm  anehasam  susarmdnam  Aditim  supranltim  \ 
daivlm  ntivdm  svaritrtim  andgasam'  asravantlm  d  ruhema  svastaye  \ 
10:  "(We  invo*ke)  the  excellent  protectress  the  Earth,  the  faultless 
Heaven,  the  sheltering  and  guiding  Aditi:  let  us  ascend  for  our  well- 
being  tho  divine  bark,  well  rowed,  free  from  imperfect&n,  which  never 
leaks."77  Yaj.  S.  xviii.  22:  "May  Earth,  and  Aditi,  and  Diti,  and 
Heaven,  etc.,  etc.,  satisfy  me  through  my  sacrifice,"  etc.  (.  .  .  .  prithivl 
cha  meAditis  cha  me  Ditis  cha  me  Dyaus  cha  me  .  .  .  yajnena  Icalpantdm). 

In  A.V.  vi.  120,  2  :  the  Earth  seeiris  to  be  distinguished  from  Aditi: 
Bhumir  mdtd  Aditir  no  janitram  Ihrdtd  'ntarikshatn  ityddi  \  "  The 
Earth  our  Mother,  Aditi  the  place  of  our  production  the  air  our 
brother,  etc. 

In  the  ^3'atapatha  Brahmana,  indeed,  it  is  said  (ii.  2,  1,  19)  :  "Aditi 
is  this  earth;  she  is  this  supporter,"  (iyam  vai  Prithivl  Aditih  sd  iyam 
pratishthd),  etc.;  apd  in  another  passage  (v.  3,  1,  4):  "Aditi  is  this 
earth ;  she  is  the  wife  of  the  gods,"  (iyam  vai  Prithivl  Aditih  sd  iyam 
devdndm  patni).  (See  also  viii.  2,  1,  10;  xi.  1,  3,  3).  But  these 
identifications  of  the  Brahmanas  are  very  al-bitrary  and  frequently 
fanciful. 

I  have  already  mentioned  that  Aditi  is  placed  by  Yaska  at  the  head 

77  This  verse  occurs  also  in  the  Vaj.  S.  xxi.  6  ;  and  Ath.  V.  vii.  6,  3.  See  Miiller, 
p.  238. 


42  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 

of  the  goddesses  of  the  intermediate  region.  If,  however,  the  same 
ancient  writer  has  done  rightly  in  placing  the  Adityas  among  the 
deities  of  the  celestial  sphere  (Nir.  xii.  35),  Aditi  their  mother  ougKt 
surely  to  have  found  her  tplace  in  the  same  class,  as  it  is  scarcely  con- 
ceivable that  the  composers  of  the  hymns  should  have  thought  of  thus 
separating  the  parent  from  her  offspring.  But  Yaska  is^here  merely 
following  the  order  of  the  list  of  wgrds  (for  it  can,,  hardly  be  called  a 
classification)  which  he  foundj  in  the  fifth  chapter  of  the  Nighantu ; 
and  in  following  this  list  (to  which  he  no  doubt  attached  a  certain 
authority)  he  has  had  to  specify  Yaruna,  who  is  twice  named  in  it,  not 
only  among  the  celestial  gods  (xii.  21),  among  whom  as  an  Aditya  he 
was  properly  ranked,  but  also  among  the  gods  of  the  intermediate 
region78  (x.  3). 

(6)  Aditi  and  Diti. 

In  the  following  verse  AMiti  is  named  along  with  another  goddess 
or  personification,  Diti,  who,  from  the  formation  of  her  name,  appears 
to  be  intended  as  an  antithesis,  or  as  a  complement,  to-  Aditi  (v.  62,  8. 
Hiranyarupam  ushaso  vymhtdv  ayah-sthunam  uditd  suryasya  \  drohatho 
Varuna  Mitra  gtrttam  atas  chalcshdthe  Aditim  Ditim  cha  \  "Ye,  Mitra 
and  Varuna,  ascend  your  car,  of  golden  form  at  the  break  of  dawn, 
(your  car)  with  iron  supports  at  the  setting79  of  the  sun,  and  thence  ye 
behold  Aditi  and  Diti." 80  Sayana  here  understands  Aditi  of  the  earth 
as  an  invisible  whole,  and  Diti  ae  representing  the  separate  creatures 
on  its  surface  {Aditim  akhandamydm  bhumim  Ditim  khanditdm  pra- 

78  Roth,  in  his  remarks  on  Nir.  x.  4,  offers  the  following  explanatidn  of  this  cir- 
cumstance :    "  Varuna  wh<} ,  of*alJ  the  gods,  ought  to  hav^  been  assigned  to  the 
highest  fphere,  appears  here  in  the  middle  rank,  because  among  his  creative  and 
regulative  functions,  the  direction  of  the  waters  in  the*  heavens  is  one. 

79  I  here  follow  Roth,  who,  in  the  Journ.  Germ.  Or.  Society,  vi.  71,  and  in  his 
Lexicon,  renders  the  word  udita  suryasya  here  by  "  setting  of  the  sun."  Sayana  goes 
the  length  of  explaining  this  phrase  by  aparahna  "  afternoon,"  in  his  note  on  v.  76, 
3,  though  not  in  the  passage  b'efore  us. 

80  These  two  words,  aditi  ajid  diti,  occur  also  in  a  passage  of  the  Vajasaneyi  San- 
hita  (x.  16),  which  is  partly  the  same  as  the  present.     The  concluding  clause  (tatas 
chakshatam  aditim  ditim  cha)  is  thus  explained  by  the  commentator  there  as  signify- 
ing  in  the  adhidaiva  sense :  "  Thence  behold  [o  Varuna  and  Mitra]  the  man  who  is 
not  poor  (aditi  =  adma),  i.e.  who  observes  the  prescribed  ordinances  (vihitanushtha- 
taram),  and  him  who  is  poor  (diti—dma),  who  follows  the  practices  of  the  atheists 
(nastika-vrittam) ." 


AS    EEPRESENTED    IN    THE    EIG-VEDA.  43 

jddikam).  '  In  his  essay  on  "The  Highest  Gods  of  the  Arian  Races" 
(Journ.  Germ.  Or.  Society,  vi.  71),  Professor  Eoth  translates  these 
two  words  by  "the  eternal,"  and  "the  perishable."  In  his  Lexi- 
con, however,  the  same  author  (*.«?.)  describes  Diti  "as  a  goddess 
associated  with  Aditi,  without  any  distinct  conception,  and  merely,  as 
it  appears,  as  a  contrast  to  her."  Aditi  may,  however,  here  represent 
the  sky,  and  Diti  the  earth ;  or,  if  »we  are  right  in  understanding  the 
verse  before  us  to  describe  two  distinct  appearances  of  Mitra  and 
Varuna,  one  at  the  rising  and  the  other  at  the  setting  of  the  sun, 
Aditi  might  possibly  stand  for  the  whole  of  nature  as  seen  by  day,  and 
Diti  for  the  creation  as  seen  by  night.  At  all  events  the  two  together 
appear  to  be  put  by  the  poet  for  the  entire  aggregate  of  visible  nature.81 
Diti  occurs  again  as  a  goddess,  but  without  Aditi,  in  another  place  (vii. 
15,  12,  Tvam  Agne  vlravad  ya&o  devas  cha  Savitd  Bhagah  \  Ditis  cha 
dati  vary  am  \  "  You,  Agni,  and  the  divine  Savitri  and  Bhaga,  (bestow) 
renown  with  descendants ;  and  Diti  confers  what  is  desirable."  Sayana 
here  explains  Diti  as  meaning  a  particular  goddess  (Ditir  api  devi). 
Roth  (s.v.)  considers  her  to  be  a  personification  of  liberality  or  opulence. 
Professor  Mu'ller,  Trans,  i.  244,  considers  that  the  original  reading  in  this 
passage  wJs  Aditi,  and  that  Diti  has  been  substituted  by  later  reciters. 
Diti  is  also  named  along  with  Aditi  as  a  goddess,  A.Y.  xv.  6,  7,  and 
xv.  18,  4 ;  Vaj.  S.  xviii.  22 ;  and  in  A.Y.  vii.  7.  1,  her  sons  are  men- 
« tioned.  These  sons,  the  Daityas,  as  is  well  known,  were  regarded  in 
later  Indian  mythology  as  the  enemies  of  the  gods. 

(7)  Aditi  may  be  a  personification  of  Universal  Nature. 

Perhaps)  Aditi  may  best  be  regarded  as*  \  personification  of  uni- 
versal, all-embracing  Nature,  or  Being,  with  which  she  is  in  fact 
identified  in  the  following  remarkable  verse.  She  is  the  source  and 
substance  of  all  things  celestial  and  intermediate,  divine  and  human, 
present  and  future  (i.89,  10):  "Aditi  is  the-  sky;  Aditi  is  the  air 
(or  intermediate  firmament) ;  Aditi  is  the  mother,  and  father,  and  son ; 
Aditi  is  all  the  gods,  and  the  five  tribes ; 82,  Aditi  is  whatever  has  been 

81  The  words  aditi  and  did  occur  together  in  another  passage,  iv.  2,  11  (ditim  cha 
rasva  aditim  urushya),  where  Sayana  takes  diti  for  "the  liberal  man,"  and  aditi  for 
the  "  illiberal,"  and  translates  "  grant  us  a  liberal  giver,  and  preserve  us  from  the 
illiberal,"  while  Both  renders  them  by  "  wealth  "  and  "  penury  "  respectively. 

82  In  another  place,  vi.  51,  11,  Aditi  is  invoked,  along  with  Indra,  the  earth,  the 


44  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 

born;  Aditi  is  whatever  shall  be  born"83  (Aditir  dyaur  Aditir  antarik- 
sham  Aditir  mdtd  sa  pita  sa  putrah  \  visve  devdk  Aditih  panchajandh 
Aditir  jdtam  Aditir  janitvam  |). 

Sayana  states  that  h«re  Aditi  is  either  the  earth,  or  the  mother  of 
the  gods,  and  that  she  is  lauded  under  th'e  character  of  universal 
nature 81  (Aditir  ddlnd  alchandanlyd  va  prithivl  devafftdtd  ?>d  \  .  .  .  evam 
sakala-jagad-dtmana  Aditih  stuyate}.,  Yaska  says  (Nir.  iv.  22  f.),  that 
Aditi  means  "not  poor,  the, mother  of  the  gods"  (Aditir  adlnd  deva- 
rndta],  and  that  the  variety  of  her  manifestations  is  set  forth  in  this 
verse,  or  that  the  objects  which  are  there  characterized  as  aditi  are 
adlna,  the  reverse  of  dlna,  "poor"  (ity  Aditer  vibhutim  dchashte  \ 
endny  adlndni  vd).  This  text  occurs  at  the  end  of  a  hymn  addressed 
to  all  the  gods,  and  does  not  appear  to  have  any  connexion  with  the 
verses  which  precede,  from  which  it  derives  no  elucidation."  85 

Compare  with  it  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  12,  3,  1,  where  it  is  similarly  said 
"that  the  self-existent  Brahma,  who  is  the  highest  austere-fervour, 
is  son,  father,  and  mother  (Svai/amlhu  Brahma  paramam  tapo  yat  \ 
sa  eva  putrah  sa  pita  sa  mdtd). 

With  this  may  be  com'pared  ^iEschylus,  Fragment  443  : 
c> 

Zeus  effriv  al0^p,  ZeusSe  7?},  Zevs  $'  ovpav6s- 
Zf6s  rot  ra  iravra.  x&  TI  T&V  8'  virep?fpov. 

ground  (kshama),  Pushan,  Bhaga,  and  the  five  tribes  (panchajandh}^  to  bestow  bless- 
ings. Are  the  "five  tribes"  to  be  understood  here,  with  some  old  commentators 
(see  Nir.  iii.  8)  of  the  Gandharvas,  Pitris,  Devas,  Asuras,  and  Rakshasas ;  or  with 
the  Aitareya  Brahmana  quoted  by  Sayana  on  i.  89,  10,  of  gods,  men,  Gandharvas, 
Apsarases,  serpents,  and  Pitris  (the  Gandharvas  and  Apsarases  being  taken  as  one 
class)  ?  Perhaps  we  should  rather  understand  the  term,  as  in  x.  55,  4,  5  (pancha- 
jandh mama  hotram  jushaflhvafa,,  f'ye  five  tribes,  welcome  my  offering"),  as  denoting 
the  whoje  pantheon,  or  a  particular  portion  of  it.  In  R.  V.  x.  55,  3,  pancha  devah, 
the  five  gods,  or  classes  of  gods,  are  mentioned,  ani  in  x.  60,  4,  "the  five  tribes  in 
the  sky"  (diviva  pancha  krishtayah).  See  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  177. 

83  In  a  note  on  this  verse  (Orient  und  Occident,  ii.  p.  253)  Professor  Benfey  remarks 
"  The  conception  of  this  goddess  is  still  dark." 

84  M.  Ad.  Regnier,  E'tude'  sur  1'idiome  des  Vedas,  p.  28,  remarks :   Aditi  is  the 
name  of  a  divinity,  a  personification  of  the  All,  the  mother  of  the  gods." 

85  There  is  a  hymn  (x.  100)— addressed  to  different  gods,  and  where  they  are 
invoked  in  succession — in  which  the  words  a  sarvatdtim  aditim  vrinimahe  form  the 
conclusion  of  all  the  verses  except  the  last.     The  precise  meaning  of  these  words  was 
not  very  clear  to  me,  especially  as  they  have  no  necessary  connection  with  the  pre- 
ceding portions  of  the  different  stanzas  in  which  they  occur.     But  Professor  Aufrecht 
suggests  that  the  verb  vrinimahe  governs  a  double  accusative,  and  that  the  words 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA.  45 

"  Zeus  is  "the  JEther,  Zeus  is  the  Earth,  Zeus  is  the  Heaven.  Zeus  is 
all  things,  and  whatever  is  above  them.''  See  Miiller,  Lectures  oil 
Language,  ii.  441. 

The  signification,  "  earth  "  or  "  nature,"  mxy  be  that  in  which  the 
word  Aditi  is  employed  'in.  E.Y.  i.  24,  1 :  Kasya  nunam  Tcatamasya 
amritdndm  mqndmahe  chdru  devasya  ndma  \  ko  no  mahyai  Aditaye  punar 
ddt  pitaram  cha  dri$eyam  mdtaraffy  cha  \  2.  Agner  vayam  prathamasya 
amritdndm  mandmahe  chdru  devasya  ndma^\  sa  no  mahyai  Aditaye  punar 
ddt  pitaram  cha  driseyam  mdtaram  cha  \  "  of  which  god,  now,  of  which 
all  the  immortals,  shall  we  invoke  the  amiable  name  ?  who  shall  give 
us  back  to  the  great  Aditi,  that  I  may  behold  my  father  and  my 
mother  ?  2.  Let  us  invoke  the  amiable  name  of  the  divine  Agni,  the 
first  of  the  immortals  ;  he  shall  give  us  back  to  the  great  Aditi,  that  I 
may  behold  my  father  and  my  mother."  These  words  are  declared  in 
the  Aitareya  Brahmana  to  have  been  uttered  by  S'unassepa  when  he 
was  about  to  be  immolated  (see  Professor  Wilson's  Essay  in  the  Journal 
of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society,  xiii.'lOO;  Professor  Eoth's  paper  in 
Weber's  Indische*  Studien,  i.  46  ;  Miiller's  Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature, 
pp.  408  ff. ;  Haug's  Aitareya  Brahmana,  ii.  4&0ff.,  and  the  First  Yol. 
of  this  w<vk,  pp.  355  ff.  In  regard  to  the  passage  immediately  before 
us,  Miiller's  Lectures  on  Language,  ii.  500,  and  his  Translation  of  theEig- 
veda,  i.  243,  may  also  be  consulted).  Whether  this  account  be  correct  or 
not,  the  words  may  be  understood  as  spoken  by  some  one  in  danger  of 
death  from  sickness  or  otherwise,  who  prayed  to  be  permitted  again  to 
behold  the  face  of  nature.  This  interpretation  is  confirmed  by  the 
epithet  mahl,  "  great,"  applied  in  this  verse  to  Aditi,  which  would  not 
be  so  suitable  if,  with  Eoth  (s.v.),  we  should  |ake  the  word  here  in  the 
sense  of  "freedom"  or  "security."  If  we  should  understand  the,/ather 
and  mother  whom  the  supplant  is  anxious  to  behold,  as  meaning  heaven 


mean  "We  ask  Aditi  for  sarvatati"  (whatever  that  may  mean).  In  an  ingenious 
excursus  on  R.V.  i.  94,  15  (Orient  und  Occident,  ii.  519  ff.),  Professor  Benfey  regards 
the*word  as  coming  originally  from  the  same  root  as  t\e  Latin  salut,  of  which  he 
supposes  the  primitive  form  to  have  been  salvotat,  ajid  to  have  the  same  signification. 
This  sense  certainly  suits  the  context  of  the  four  passages  on  which  principally  he 
founds  it,  viz.,  i.  106,  2 ;  iii.  54,  11 ;  ix.  96,  4;  x.  36,  14.  In  a  note  to  his  trans- 
lation of  this  paper  (Orient  und  Occident,  iii.  470)  he  explains  the  words  under 
consideration,  "  we  supplicate  Aditi  for  welfare."  In  his  transl.  of  R.V.  i.  247, 
Muller  similarly  renders  them  :  "We  implore  Aditi  for  health  and  wealth." 


46  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 

and  earth  (see  above),  it  would  become  still  more  probable  thut  Aditi  is 
to  be  understood  as  meaning  "  nature."  Sayana  (in  loco)  understands 
the  word  of  the  Earth  (prithivyai}.  ,. 

ci 
(8)  Aditi  as  aforgiver  (ff  sin, 

o 

Benfey  in  his  translation  of  the  hymn  just  referred  to  i.  24  (Orient 
und  Occident,  i.  33),  treats  Aditi  as  a  proper  name,  and  explains  it  as 
denoting  "sinlessness."  Whatever  may  be  thought  of  this  interpreta- 
tion, the  goddess  Aditi  is  undoubtedly  in  many  other  texts  connected 
with  the  idea  of  deliverance  from  sin.  Thus  at  the  end  of  this  same 
hymn  (i.  24,  15),  it  is  said :  Ud  uttamam  Varuna  pdsam  asmad  ava 
adhamam  m  madhyamam  srathaya  \  aiha  vayam  Aditya  vrate M  tava 
anugasah  Aditaye  sydma  \  "Varuna,  loose  from  us  the  uppermost, 
the  middle,  and  the  lowest  bond.  Then  may  we,  o  Aditya,  by  thy 
ordination,  be  without  sin* against  Aditi." 87 

The  same  reference  is  also  found  in  the  following  texts  : 

i.  162,  22.  "May  Aditi  make  us  sinless"  (anagestvam  no  Aditih 
krinotu}.  «• 

ii.  27,  14.  *"'  Aditi,  Mitra,  and  Yaruna,  be  gracious  if  we  have  com- 
mitted any  sin  against  you"  (Adite  Mitra  Varunauta  mrila  yad  vo  vayam 
chakrima  kach  chid  agah). 

iv.  12,  4.  "Whatever  offence  we  have,  through  our  folly,  committed 
against  thee,  after  the  manner  of  men,  o  most  youthful  god,  make  us 
free  from  sin  against  Aditi ;  loosen  our  sins  altogether  away,  o  Agni  " 

86  On  the  different  senses  of  the  word  v rata  see  Miiller,  Trans,  of  E.V.  i.  225  S. 
Here  he  renders  "  under  thy  auspices,"  p.  228. 

87  The  abstract  noun  adititva  occurs  along  with  anagaflva,  "  sinless'aess,"  in  the 
following  line  (vii.  51,  1)  :  anagastve  adititve  turasy,  imam  yajnam  dadhatu  srosha- 
manah,  "  May  the  mighty  gods,  listening  to  us,  preserve  this  ceremony  in  sinlessness, 
and  prosperity."     Though  adititva  is  joined  with  anagastvg,  it  does  not  follow  that 
it  must  have  the  same  sense. — In  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  x.  6,  5,  5  (=  Brihad 
Aranyaka  Upanishad,  p.  53  ff.,)  the  name  of  Aditi  is  explained  from  the  root  ad,  to 
eat :  "  Whatever  he  created,  he  began  to  eat :  for  Aditi  derives  her  (or  his)  name 
from  this,  that  she  (or  he)  e'ats  every  thing  "  (yad  yad  eva  asrijata  tad  attutn  adhri- 
yata  \  sarvam  vai  atti  iti  tad  AdLer  adititvami).     Aditi  is  an  epithet  of  Agni  in  R.V. 
iv.  1,  20 ;  vii.  9,  3 ;  and  of  Aryaman  in  ix.  81,  5.     Yaska  tells  us  that  Agni  also  is 
called  Aditi  (Agnir  apy  aditir  uchyate,  Nir.  xi.  23),  and  quotes  in  proof  of  this  the 
15th  verse  of  a  hymn  to  Agni,  R.V.  i.  94.     In  vii.  52,  1,  the  worshippers  ask  that 
they  may  be  aditayah,  which  Sayana  renders  by  akhandamyah,  "  invincible." 


AS    EEPKESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA.  47 

( Yach  ckid  hi  te  purushatra  yavishtha  achittibhih  chakrima  kach  chid 
dgah  \  kridhi  su  asmdn  Aditer  andgdn  vi  endmsi  sisratho  vishvag  Ague). 
»v.  82,  6.  "May  we  be  free  from  sin  against  Aditi  through  the  help 
of  the  divine  Savitri"  (andgasah  Aditaye  devaiya  Savituh  save}. 

vii.  87,  7.  "  May  we,  fulfilling  the  ordinances  of  Aditi,  be  without 
sin  towards  yaruna,  who  is  gracious  even  to  him  who  has  committed 
sin"  (yo  mrilaydti,  chakrushe  chid,  ago  vayam  sydma  Varune  andgdh  \ 
anu  vratdni  Aditer  ridhantah}.  ,, 

vii.  93,  7.  "  Whatever  sin  we  have  committed,  be  thou  (Agni)  com- 
passionate :  may  Aryaman  and  Aditi  sever  it  from  us  "  (yat  slm  dgas 
chakrima  tat  su  mrila  tad  Aryamd  Aditih  sisrathantu). 

x.  12,  8.  "May  Mitra  here,  may  Aditi,  may  the  divine  Savitri  de- 
clare us  sinless  to  Yacuna  "  (Mitro  no  atra  Aditir  andgdn  Savitd  devo 
Varundya  vochat). 

A  consideration  of  these  passages,  where  Aditi  is  supplicated  for  for- 
giveness of  sin,  might  lead  us  to  suppose  that  she  was  regarded  as  the 
great  power  which  wields  the  forces  of  the  universe,  and  controls  the 
destinies  of  me3.  by  moral  laws;  and  the  idea  derives  some  support 
from  her  connection  with  Yaruna,  whose  bonds  are  so  often  referred  to 
as  afflicting  sinners.88  But  this  supposition  is  weakened  by  the  fact  that 
many  others  of  the  gods  are  in  the  same  way  petitioned  for  pardon,  as 
Savitri  (iv.  54,  3)  and  other  deities,  as  the  Sun,  Dawn,  Heaven  and 
Earth  (x.  35,  2,  3),  Agni  (iii.  54,  19). 

(9)  Aditi' s  position  sometimes  subordinate. 

Though,  as  we  have  seen,  Aditi  is  regarded  as  the  mother  of  some  of 
the  principal  Vedic  Deities,  she  is  yet,  iri  Jlhei*  texts,  represented  as 
playing  a  subordinate  part. 

Thus,  in  vii.  38,  4,  she  is  mentioned  as  celebrating  the  praises  of 
Savitri,  along  with 'her  sons  Yaruna,  Mitra,  and  Aryaman,  and  wel- 
coming his  aid  (abhi  yam  devl  Aditir  grindti  savam  devasya  Savitur 
jushdnd  \  abhi  samrdjo  Faruno  grinanti  abhi  Miijrdso  Aryamd  sajoshdh) ; 
and  in  viii.  12,  14,  she  is  declared  to  ha^e  produced  a  hymn  to  Indra 
uta  svardje  Aditih  stomam  Indrdya  jljanat  \  puruprasastam  utaye  rita- 
sya  yat). 

88  See  on  this  subject  Miiller's  transl.  of  the  K.V.  i.  244  ff. 


48  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 

(10)  Creation  as  described  in  Rig-veda  x.  72;  lirth  of  Aditi,  Daksha, 

the  gods,  and  the  Adityas. 

( 

In  a  hymn  of  the  tenth  hook  (the  72nd),  supposed  from  its  contents 
to  be  of  a  comparatively  late  date,  the  process  of  creation  is  described 
at  greater  length  than  in  any  earlier  passage,  and  the  (  share  which 
Aditi  took  in  it  is  not  very  intelligibly  set  forth : 89 

x.  72,  1.  Devdndm  nu  vayam  jdnd  pra  vochdma  vipanyayd  \  uktheshu 
sasyamdneshu  yah  pasydd  uttare  yuge  \  2.  Brahmanaspatir  eta  sam  kar- 
mdrah  ivddhamat  \  devdndm  purvye  yuge  asatah  sad  ajdyata  \  3.  Devd- 
ndm yuge  prathame  asatah  sad  ajdyata  \  tad  dsdh  anv  ajdyanta  tad  Uttd- 
napadas  pari  \  4.  Bhur  jajne  Uttdnapado  bhuvah  dsdh  ajdyanta  \  Aditer 
Daksho  ajdyala  Dakshdd  u  Aditih  pari  \  5.  Aditir  hi  ajanishta  Daksha 
yd  duhitd  tava  \  tarn  devdh  anv  ajdyanta  bhadrdh  amritabandhavah  \  6. 
Yad  devdh  adah  salile  susamrabdhdh  atishthata  \  attra  vo  nrityatdm  iva 
tlvro  renur  apdyata  \  7.  $ad  devdh  yatayo  yathd  bhuvandni  apinvata  \ 
attra  samudre  d  gulham  d  suryatn  ajabharttana  \  8.  Ashtau  putrdso 
Aditer  ye  jdtds  tanvas  pari  \  devdn  upa  pra  ait  saptdbhih  pard  mdrt- 
tdndam  dsyat  \  9.  Saptabhih  putrair  Aditih  upa  prait  purvyam  yugam  \ 
prajdyai  mrityave  tvat  punar  mdrttdndam  dbharat  \  ( 

"  I.  Let  us,  in  chaunted  hymns,  with  praise,  declare  the  births  of 
the  gods, — any  of  us  who  in  (this)  latter  age  may  behold  them.  2. 
Brahmanaspati  blew  forth  these  births  like  a  blacksmith.90  In  the 
earliest  age  of  the  gods,  the  efxistent  sprang  from  the  non-existent. 

3.  In  the  first  age  of  the  gods,  the  existent  sprang  from  the  non- 
existent :    thereafter  the  re'gions  sprang,   thereafter,  from  Uttanapad. 

4.  The  earth   sprang   from   Uttanapad,    from   the   earth'  sprang   the 
regions:  Daksha  sprang  from  Aditi,  and  Aditi  ftom  Daksh'a.     5.  For 
Aditi  was  produced,  she  who  is  thy  daughter,  o  Daksha.     After  her 

89  I  have  already  given  this  translation  in  vol.  iv.  of  ttis  work,  pp.  10,  11,  but 
repeat  it  here,  with  some  variations,  for  the  sake  of  completeness.  Prof.  Miiller  in 
his  transl.  of  the  E..V.  pp.  234  f.  gives  a  version  of  the  first  four  verses.  In  the  first 
verse,  second  line,  he  proposes  to  read  yat  for  yah  and  to  translate  "that  a  man  may 
see  them,"  etc.  In  the  third  verse  he  takes  Uttiinapadas,  where  it  first  occurs,  for  a 
nominative,  and  in  the  fourth  verse  for  a  genitive.  Whichever  way  we  take  the 
words,  there  is  a  double  production  of  the  regions  ;  first,  either  (a)  from  Uttanapad, 
or  (b)  after  the  non-existent,  but  before  Uttanapad,  to  which  they  gave  birth,  and, 
second,  from  the  earth,  which  itself  sprang  from  Uttanapad. 

9"  Compare  E.V.  iv.  2,  17;  and  x.  81,  3. 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA.  49 

the  gods*  were  born,  happy,  partakers  of  immortality.  6.  When,  gods, 
ye  moved,  agitated,  upon  those  waters,  then  a  violent  dust91  issued 
from  you,  as  from  dancers.  7.  When,  gods,  ye,  like  strenuous  men,92 
replenished  the  worlds,  then  ye  drew  forth  tile  sun  which  was  hidden 
in  the  (aerial?)  ocean.  '  8.  Of  the  eight  sons93  of  Aditi  who  were 
born  from  h?r  body,  she  approached  the  gods  with  seven,  and  cast  out 
Marttanda  (the  eighth).  9.  "With  seven  sons  Aditi  approached  the 
former  generation  (of  gods) :  she  again  produced  Marttanda  for  birth  as 
well  as  for  death.94 


91  Compare  R.V.  IT.  42,  5.  ...  Indrah  iyarmi  renum  abhibhutyojah. 

92  Tatayah. — This  word  is  taken  by  Bbhtlingk  and  Roth  s.v.  as  the  name  of  as 
ancient  family  connected  with  the  Bhrigus,  R.V.  viii.  3,  9  ;  viii.  6,  18,  to  whom  some 
connection  with  the  formation  of  the  world  is  ascribed  in  x.  72,  7  (the  verse  before  us). 
The  word  also  occurs  in  R.V.  vii.  13,  1,  where  it  is  applied  to  Agni  (Vaisvanaraya 
yataye  matlnam}.     The  second  of  the  verses  quoted  by  B.  and  R.  (viii.  6,  18)  is  as 
follows :    ye  Indra  yatayas  tva  Bhrigavo  ye  eha  tyshtuvuh  \  mama  id  ugra  s'rudhi 
havam  \  "  Indra,  the  Tatis,  and  the  Bhrigus,  who  praised  thee  : — hear,  o  fiery  god,  my 
invocation."    Here  a  family  of  men  may  bo  meant,  as  also  in  viii.  3,  9  (yena  yatibhyo 
Bhrigave  dhanehity.   In  one  of  the  few  verses  of  the  Sama-reda  which  are  not  found 
in  the  R.V.,  viz.  ii.  304,  (but  which  is  not  referred  to  in  B,  and  R.'s  Lexicon,  although 
the  parallel  passage  in  the  A.V.  ii.  5,  3,  which  has  some  different  readings,  is  cited) 
the  words  ^Tati  and  Bhrigu  both  occur :  Indras  turashan  Mitro  nHjaghana  Vrittram 
Yatir  na  \  bibheda  Balam  Bhrigur  na  sasahe  satrun  made  somasya  \  "  The  impetuous 
Indra  slew  Vrittra  as  (did)  Mitra,  as  (did)  the  Yati ;  he  pierced  Bala  as  (did)  Bhrigu ; 
he  overcame  his  enemies  in  the  exhilaration  of  the  soma-juice."    The  parallel  passage 
of  the  A.V.  (in  Roth  and  Whitney's  ed.)  reads  yatlr  na,  the  accusative  feminine,  instead 
of  yatir  na,  the  nom.  masc.     The  Lexicon  ajso  refers  to  the  Ait.  Br.  vii.  28  (quoted 
in  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work  (2nd  ed.)  pp.  437  f.),  where  Indra  is  said  to  have 
abandoned  the  Yatis  to  wolves ;  and  to  other  passages  in  which  the  same  legend  in 
noticed. 

93  Compare«A.V.  viii.  9,  21  :  ashta-yonir  Aditir  ashta-putra  \  In  the  Taitt.  Aran- 
yaka  i.  13,  1,  the  Earth  is  said  to  have  had  eight  ^irths^  eight  sons,  and  eight  hus- 
bands (ashtayonlm  ashtaputram  asldapatriim  imam  mahim). 

94  The  8th  and  9th  verses  ^are  quoted  in  the  Taittirlya  Aranyaka  i.  13,  2,  3 ; 
where  the  reading  of  the  last  line  of  verse  9,  is  as  follows  :  prajayai  mrityave  tat 
para  marttandam  abkaral  \  The  commentator  explains  the  last  verse  thus :  "  Aditi 
approached  her  husband  preparatory  to  the  procreation  of  her  sons,  and  with  a  view 
to  their  birth;  and  she  abandoned  Marttanda  that  he  might  die"  (tad-utpadanartham 
"purvi/am  yuaam"  tad  utpatti-purva-kallnam  pati-samyogam  "prajayai"  prajot- 
patty-artham  "  upcprait "  priti-purvakam  praptavail  \  .  .  .  Marttandakhyam  ash- 
tamam  putram  " parabharat"  parityaktavatl  itfyat  tat  " mrityave"  mriiyu-nimit- 
tam  \  Marttando  hi  mrityor  eva   hetur   na  prajabhivriddluh\},  and   he  adds   that 
"Miirttanda  means  one  in  consequence  of  whose  birth  the  egg  has  become  dead" 
(mritam  andam  yadlya-janmana  sa  Marttandah) ;  according  to  the  Smrili :  mrite'nde 

jayate  yasmad  Marttandah  sa  udahritah  \  "He  is  called  Marttanda  because  he  was 

4 


50  THE   INDIAN  -GODS    GENERALLY. 

Taska  has  the  following  remarks  on  verse  4  of  this  hymrf  in  the 
Nirukta,  xi.  23 : 

Adityo  Dakshah  ity  dhur  Aditya-madhye  cJia  stutah  \  Aditir  Ddkshd*- 
yarn  "  Aditer  Daksho  aja$ata  Dakshdd  u  Aditih  pari"  iti  cha  \  tat 
Tcatham  upapadyeta  \  samdna-janmdnau  8ydtdmtiti  \  a/pi  vd  deva-dhar- 
mena  itaretara-janmdnau  sydtdm  itaretara-prakritl  \  '  , 

"  Daksha  is,  they  say,  an  Aditya  (pr  son  of  Adit'),  and  is  praised 
among  the  Adityas.  And  Adift  is,  on  the  other  hand,  the  daughter  of 
Daksha  (according  to  this  text),  '  Daksha  sprang  from  Aditi,  and  Aditi 
from  Daksha.'  How  can  this  be  possible  ?  They  may  have  had  the 
same  origin ;  or,  according  to  the  nature  of  the  gods,  they  may  have 
been  born  from  each  other,  and  have  derived  their  substance  from  each 
other.".95 

Another  instance  of  the  same  reciprocal  generation  is  found  in  R.V. 
x.  90,  5  :  Tasmdd  Virud  ajdyata  Virdjo  adhi  Purushah  \  "From  him 
(Purusha)  sprang  Yiraj  ;  and  from  Yiraj  (sprang)  Purusha." 

born  when  the  egg  was  dead."  See  also  the  549th  line  of  the  Harivcmsa  quoted  in  the 
4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  11,  npte.  The  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  iii.  1,  3,  3  (already 
quoted  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  12),  has  the  following  explanation  of  the  8th 
verse  :  Ashtau  ha  vai  putrah  Aditeh  \  yams  tv  etad  devah  Adityah  ity  fihakshate 
sapta  ha  eva  te  \  avikritam  ha  ashtamam  janayanchakara  Marttandam  \  sandegho  ha 
fva  asa  yavan  era  urdhvas  tavams  tiryan  purusha-sammitah  ity  u  ha  eke  ahuh  [  4.  Te 
u  ha  ete  uchur  devah  Adityah  "  yad  asman  anu  ajanima.  tad  amuya  iva  bhud  hanta 
imam  vikaravama  "  iti  tarn  vichaJcrur  yatha  ay  am  purusho  vikritah  \  tasya  yani 
mamsani  sankritya  sannyasus  tato  hastl  wmabhavat  \  .  .  .  Yam  u  ha  tad  vichakrus  sn 
Vivasvan  Adityas  tasya  imah  projah  \  ''  Aditi  had  eight  sons.  But  there  were  only 
seven  (of  them)  whom  men  call  the  Aditya  deities.  For  she  hore  the  eighth,  Mart- 
tanda,  undeveloped  into  any  distinctions  of  shape  (without  hands,  feet,  etc. — Comm.), 
and  quite  smooth  and  uniform,  as  broad  as  he  was  long,  or  of  the  sifce  of  a  man, 
according  to  some.  The  A»"ityargoils  said  '  If  in  his  nature  tye  does  not  resemble  us, 
it  will  be-futal ;  come  let  us  shape  him.'  They  did  so  as  this  man  is  shaped.  The 
flesh  which  they  cut  off  him,  and  threw  away,  became  an  elephant.  ...  He  whom 
they  so  shaped  was  the  Aditya  Vivas  vat,  of  whom  come  these  creatures."  The  passage 
of  the  Taitt.  Sanh.  vi.  5,  6,  1,  quoted  in  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work  p.  26,  also  alludes 
to  Aditi's  second  parturition  having  resulted  in  an  abortive  egg  (vyriddham  andam}. 

95  In  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta  (p.  151)  Professor  Eoth  thus  translates  the  4th 
and  5th  verses  of  this  hymn  :  "  Bhu  (the  world)  was  born,  and  from  her  opened  womb 
sprang  the  Regions ;  from  Aditi  (Eternity)  was  born  Daksha  (spiritual  power),  and 
from  Daksha  again  Aditi.  5.  Yes,  Aditi  was  born,  o  Daksha,  she  who  is  thy 
daughter ;  after  her  sprang  forth  the  gods,  the  blessed  possessors  of  immortality."  He 
then  proceeds :  "Daksha,  (spiritual  power)  is  the  male  energy,  which  generates  the 
gods  in  eternity.  As  Bhu  (the  world,  or  being)  and  space  are  the  principles  of  the 
finite,  so  both  of  these  are  the  originators  of  divine  life." 


AS    REPRESENTED    Ilfc  THE    RIG-VEDA,  51 

Dakska  and  Aditi  are  connected  in  two  other  texts : 

x.  5,  7.  Asach  cha  sack  cha  parame  vyoman  DaJcshasya  janmann  Aditer 
ityasthe  |  Agnir  nah  prathamajdh  ritasya  purve  dyuni  vrishabhas  cha 
dhenuh  \  "(A  principle)  not  existing  (actually),  but  existing  (poten- 
tially) in  the  highest  heaven,  in  the  creative  potency  of  Daksha  and  in 
the  womb  o£  Aditi, — Agni  (became)  in  a  former  age  the  first  born  of 
our  ritual,  and  is  hoth  a  vigorous,bull  and  a  cow."  % 

x.  64,  5.  Dakshasya  vd  Adite  janmani^  vrate  rdjdnd  Mitrd-varuna  a 
vivdsasi  \  "  Thou,  o  Aditi,  dost  tend  the  two  kings  Mitra  and  Yaruna 
after  the  production  and  by  the  will  of  Daksha."  97 

Though  the  above  passage,  x.  72,  4,  5,  represents  Daksha  as  at  once 
the  father  and  the  son  of  Aditi,  the  older  Yedic  mythology,  as  we  shall 
see  from  K.V.  ii.  27,  1,  in  the  next  section,  describes  him  as  one  of  the 
Adityas,  and  consequently  as  her  son.  There  are,  however,  two  other 
passages,  vi.  50,  2,  and  vii.  66,  2,  in  which  the  epithet  Daksha-pitri  is 
applied. to  the  gods,  and  a  third,  viii.  25,  5,  in  which  two  of  the 
Adityas  are  styled  sunu  dakshasya  sukratu.  "What  is  the  signification 
of  these  epithefs?  The  first  of  the  passages,  vi.  50,  2,  is  as  follows: 

Sujyotishah  surya  Daksha-pitrm  anagastve  sumaho  vlhi  devdn  \  dvy'an- 
mano  ye+ritasapah  satydh  svarvanto  yajatah  Agni-jihvdh  \  "0  mighty 
Surya,  visit  in  sinlessness  the  resplendent  gods,  the  sons  of  Daksha,  [or 
possessors  of  powers],  who  have  two  births,  are  holy^  true,  celestial, 
adorable,  and  have  Agni  on  their  tongues." 

vii.  66,  2.  Td  dharayanta  devdh  sudahha  Daksha-pitara  \  asurydya 
pramahasd  \  "  "Which  two  wise  gods  (i.e.  Mitra  and  Varuna),  the  mighty 
sons  of  Daksha, —  [or  possessors  of  powers], —  the  deities  have  esta- 
blished to  exercise  divine  rule."  „  ^ 

In  the"Taittir!ya"Sanhita,  i.  2,  3,  1  (p.  309  in  Bibl.  Ind.),  th,e  same 
epithet  is  applied  to  the  guds  :  Yedevah  manojutdhmanoyujahsudaTcsJidh 
Dakshapiiaras  te  nah  pdntu.  \  "  May  those  deities  who  are  mind-born, 
mind- exerting,  intelligent,  who  have  Daksha  for  their  father,98  protect 

and  deliver  us,"  etc. 

« 

96  See  Langlois'  yersion.     Miiller  (Trans,  of  th§  R.V.  i.  234)  renders  the  first  line 
only,  and  does  not  advert  to  the  second. 

97  See  Muller's  version  in  his  Trans,  of  the  R.V.  i.  p.  234.     In  his  Illustrations 
of  the  Nirukta,  p.  151,  Roth  translates  the  line  "  And  thou,  o  Aditi,  who  after  their  pro- 
duction by  Daksha,  and  by  his  command,  servest  the  two  kings  Mitra  and  Varuna,"  etc. 

&s  The  commentator  explains  the  word  Daksha-pitarah  as  =  Dafcshah  prajapatir 
utpadako  yesham  te,  "  those  of  whom  the  Prajapati  Daksha  is  the  generator." 

UNIVERSITY  OF 


52  THE  INDIAN  «BODS  GENERALLY, 

Doubt  may  be  thrown  on  the  propriety  of  taking  Daksha  in  che  pre- 
ceding passages  to  represent  a  person,  from  the  fact  that  in  E.V.  viii. 
25,  5,  Mitra  and  Varuna  are  not  only  called  the  "strong  sons  of 
Daksha  "  (sunu  DakshasyA  sukratu),  but  also  the  "  grandsons  of  mighty 
strength"  (napatq  savaso  mahah).  In  his  interpretation  of  vj.  50,  2, 
Sayana  explains  Daksha-pitrln  as  Dafcshah  pitdmaJio  i/eshant  te  \  "  they 
of  whom  Daksha  is  the  progenitor."  dn  the  second  passage  vii.  66,  2, 
however,  he  takes  the  same  compound  to  signify  the  preservers,  or 
lords  of  strength"  (balasya pdlalcau  svdminau  va).  The  epithet  "son 
of  strength"  (sahasasputra,  sahasah  sunu')  is  applied  to  Agni  viii.  49,  2 ; 
viii.  60,  11 ;  viii.  64,  3 ;  and  savasah  putra  "son  of  might"  to  Indra 
in  viii.  79,  3,  and  viii.  81,  14.  In  viii.  58,  4,  Indra  is  called  the 
"son  of  truth"  (sunum  satyasya);  and  the  gods  are  called  "sons  of 
immortality"  in  vi.  52,  9  (sunavah  amritasya),  and  in  x.  13, 1  (amritasya 
putrdh}.  Professor  Both  in  his  Lexicon  assigns  to  daJcsTiapitarah  the 
sense  of  "preserving,  possessing,  bestowing  powers;"  and  supports  his 
view  by  quoting  various  other  texts  of  the  E.V.  This  signification  is 
approved  by  Dr.  Kuhn  in  his  review  of  this  article.  Professor  Miiller 
translates  the  word  by  "  fathers  of  strength,"  Trans,  of  E.V.  i.  235  f. 

In  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  ii.  4,  4,  2,  Daksha  is  identifed  with 
Prajapati,  or  the  creator."99 

The  part  which  he  plays  in  the  later  mythology,  founded,  no  doubt, 
on  the  Vedic  texts  which  I  have  quoted,  may  be  seen  by  consulting 
Professor  Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  Dr.  Hall's  edition,  vol.  i.  pp.  100, 
108  ff. :  vol.  ii.  pp.  9-26,  and  vol.  iii.  p.  230.  According  to  the  first 
account  he  is-  one  of  Brahma's  mind-born  sons  (p.  100),  and  marries 
Prasuti  (p.  108),  who  beai$  him  twenty-four  daughters,  among  whom 
Aditi  is.  not  specified.  In  the  second  account,  however  (vol.  ii.  p.  26), 
Aditi  is  mentioned  as  one  of  his  sixty  daughters  who,  along  with  Diti, 
Danu,  and  ten  others,  is  said  to  have  been  given  in  marriage  to 
Kasyapa,  to  whom  she  (Aditi)  bore  the  twelve  Adityas  (p.  27.  See 
also  the  M.  Bh.  Adi-parva,  3135.)  According  to  the  third  account 
(vol.  iii.  p.  230),  Aditi  fs  said  to  be  the  daughter  of  Daksha,  and  the 
mother  of  Vivasvat,  the  Sun.  In  a  passage  in  one  of  the  recensions  of 
the  Eamayana  (Schlegel,  i.  31,  Calc.  ed.  i.  29),  in  the  Mahabharata, 

99  See  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  24.  In  the  sequel  of  the  passage  in  the  S'.  P. 
Br.,  ii.  4,  4,  6,  a  person  named  Daksha,  the  son  of  Parvata,  is  mentioned. 


AS   REPRESENTED   IN  THE  RIG-VEDA.  53 

and  in  ihe  Bhagavata  Purana,  viii.  16,  1  ff.,  Aditi  is  described  as  the 
wife  of  Kasyapa,  and  the  mother  of  Yishnu  in  his  dwarf  incarnation. 
(See  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  116ff.) 

An  older  authority,  however,  the  Yaj.  Sanhita,  gives  quite  a  different 
account  of  the  relation  of  Aditi  to  Yishnu,  as  it  (xxix.  60  =  Taitt.  S. 
vii.  5,  14,  J)  represents  her  to  be  his  wife  (Adityai  Vishnu-patnyai 
charuh.m  In  the  following  passage  of  the  Taittirlya  Sanhita  iv.  (p.  34« 
of  the  India  Office  MS.)  also  she  is  similarly  described:  Vishtambho 
divo  dharunah  prithivya  asyesdnd  jagato  Vishnu-patm  \  visva-vyachdh 
ishayantl  mlhutih  sivd  no  astu  Aditir  upasthe  \  "  Supporter  of  the  sky, 
sustainer  of  the  earth,  sovereign  of  this  world,  wife  of  Yishnu,  may 
the  all-embracing  and  powerful  Aditi,  filling  us  with  vigour,  be 
auspicious  to  us  (abiding)  in  her  lap." 

100  In  A.V.vii.  46,  3,  Simvall  seems  to  be  called  the  wife  of  Vishnu  (Vishnoh patrii). 
Another  goddess  is  said  in  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  1,  2,  6^to  he  the  wife  of  the  same  god 
(MaKtm  devlm  Vishnupatriim). 


54  THE   INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 


SECTION    IV.  *      , 

THE   ADITYAS. 

i 

The  sons  of  Aditi  specified  in  R.Y.  ii.  27,  1,  are  these  six :  Mitra, 
Aryaman,  Bhaga,  Yaruna,  Daksha,  and  Amsa  (Imdfr  girah  AdityelJiyo 
ghritasnuh  sandd  rdjabhyo  j'uhvd  juhomi  \  srinotu  Mitro  Aryamd  Bhago 
nas  tuvijdto  Taruno  DalcsJio  Amsah  |).  In  ix.  114,  3,  the  Adityas  are 
spoken  of  as  seven  in  number,  but  their  names  are  not  mentioned  (devdh 
dditydh  ye  sapta  tebhih  somdlhiralcsha  nah).101  In  x.  72,  8,  9,  as  we  have 
already  seen,  it  is  declared  that  Aditi  had  eight  sons,  of  whom  she  only 
presented  seven  to  the  gods,  casting  out  Marttanda,  the  eighth,  though 
she  is  said  to  have  afterwards  brought  him  forward.  Here,  again,  the 
names  of  the  rest  are  omitted.  In  A.Y.  viii.  9,  21,  also,  as  quoted  above, 
p.  38,  Aditi  is  said  to  have  had  eight  sons.  Surya  is,  in  a  few  places, 
spoken  of  as  an  Aditya,  viz.  in  R.Y.  i.  50, 12  (ud  agdd  ay  am  Adityah) ;  i. 
191,  9  (ud  apaptad  asau  suryah  .  .  .  Adityah) ;  viii.  90,  11  ;102  and 
as  an  Aditeya  (this  word  equally  means  '  son  of  Aditi '),  identified  with 
Agni,  he  is  said  (x.  88,  II),103  to  have  been  placed  by  the  gods  in  the 
sky.  In  viii.  18,  3,  Savitri  is  named  along  with  Bhaga,  Yaruna,  Mitra, 
and  Aryaman,  four  of  the  Adityas,  after  that  class  of  deities  had  been 
celebrated  generally  in  the  preceding  verse.  Surya  or  Savjtri  there- 
fore appears  to  have  a^  certain  claim  to  be  considered  the  seventh 
Aditya  (compare  A.Y.  xiii.  2,  9,  and  37,  where  the  sun  is  called  the 
son  of  Aditi,  Aditehputrah  and  Aditydh  <putram).  We  have  seen  above 
(pp.  13  f.,  note  19)  that  Indra  also  is  in  one  passage1  (E.Y.  vii.  85,  4), 

101  See  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  101  if.,  where  these  and  many  other  passages 
relating  to  the  Adityas  are  quoted. 

102  The  last-mentioned  text  k  as  follows :  San  mahan  asi  Surya  bal  Aditya  mahan 
asi  |  .  .  .  .  Bat  Surya  sravasa  mat  an  asi  \  "0  great  art  thou,  Surya!    0  son  of 
Aditi,  thou  art  great !  ....  0  Surya,  in  renown  thou  art  great,"  etc. 

103  Yaded  enam  adadhur  yajniydso  dim  devah  Suryam  Aditeyam.     See  Nirukta  ii. 
13 ;  vii.  29.    In  x.  37,  1,  however,  the  Sun  is  called  the  Son  of  the  Heaven  (divas 
putraya  suryaya} ;  and  there  as  well  as  elsewhere  he  is  called  the  eye  of  Mitra  and 
Varuna. 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN   THE    RIG-VEDA.  55 

addressed  as  an  Aditya  along  with  Varuna.104  In  A.V.  viii.  2,  15,  the 
Sun  and  Moon  are  called  Adityas  (tattra  tvd  "dityau  rakshatdm  surya- 
chandramasdv  ubhau  |).'  In  A.V.  ix.  1,  4,  the  golden-hued  MadhukaSa 
is  said  to  be  the  mother  of  the  Adityas,  and  $ie  daughter  of  the  Vasus 
(Matd"  ditydndm  duhibii  Vasundm  ....  hiranya-varnd  MadhuJcasd). 

In  the  T,aittiriya  Veda  (quoted  by  Sayana  on  E.V.  ii.  27,  1)  the 
Adityas  are  said  to  be  eight  in  number :  Mitra,  Varuna,  Dhatri,  Arya- 
man,  Amsu,  (sic)  Bhaga,  Indra,  and  Vivasvat.  Here  five  names  corre- 
spond with  those  given  in  R.V.  ii.  27,  1,  while  Daksha  is  omitted, 
and  three  names  are  added,  Dhatri,  Vivasvat  (who  may  be  identified 
with  Surya),  and  Indra. 

The  same  names  are  given  in  the  Taittirlya  Brahmana,  i.  1,  9,  1  (a 
passage  already  cited  in  the  1st.  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  27,  but  repeated 
here  for  facility  of  reference) : 

Aditih putrakdmd  Sddhyelhyo  devebhyo  Irahmaudanam  apachat  \  tasyai 
uchheshanam  adaduh  \  tat  prdsndt  \  sd  retb  'dhatta  \  tasyai  Dhdtd  cha 
Aryamd  cha  ajdyetdm  \  sd  dvitiyvm  apachat  \  2.  Tasyai  uchheshanam 
adaduh  \  tat  flrdsndt  \  sd  reto  'dhatta  tasyai  Mitras  cha  Varunas  cha 
ajdyetdm  \  sd  tritiyam  apachat  \  tasyai  uchheshanam  adaduh  \  tat  prds- 
ndt  |  so,  reto  'dhatta  \  tasyai  Aih&as  cha  Bhagas  cha  Ajdyetdm  \  sd  cha- 
turtham  apachat  \  tasyai  uchheshanam  adaduh  \  tat  prdsndt  \  sd  reto 
^dhatta  \  tasyai  Indras  cha  Vivawdms  cha  ajdyetdm  \ 

"  Aditi,  being  desirous  of  sons,  cooked  a  brahmaudana  oblation  for 
the  gods  the  Sadhyas.  They  gave  har  the  remains  of  it,  which  she  ate. 
She  conceived,  and  Dhatri  and  Aryaman  were  born  to  her."  The  same 
thing  is  done  a  second  time,  when  she  brings  forth  Mitra  and  Varuna, 
— a  third  time,  when  she  bears  Amsa  and  Bhaga, — and  a  fourth  time, 
when  site  gives  birth  to  Indra  and  Vivasvat.  ^Comp.  the  passage  from 
the  Taitt.  Sanh.  vi.  5,  6, 1,  quoted  in  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  26  f.) 
In  one  place  (iii.  1,  3,  3),  already  quoted  in  p.  50,  the  S'atapatha  Brah- 
mana speaks  of  the  Adityas  as  becoming  eight  by  the  addition  of  Mart- 
tanda ;  but  in  two  other  passages  (vi.  1,  2,  8 ;  xi.  6,  3,  8),  quoted  in, 
the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  102,  as  being  twelve  in  number.  In  the 
first  of  these  two  latter  texts  they  are  said  to  have  sprung  from  twelve 
drops  generated  by  Prajapati  (in  which  case  they  could  not  have  been 

104  Although  in  their  Sanhita  text  both  Miiller  and  Aufrecht  read  AdityS,  they  hoth 
give  Aditya  the  dual  as  the  reading  of  the  Pada  text. 


56  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 

sons  of  Aditi),  and  in  the  second  they  are  identified  with  th?  twelve 
months.105  In  the  later  Indian  literature  they  are  always  said  to  he 
twelve  (see  the  passages  quoted  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  101-106). 

Professor  Roth  (in  th^  Journ.  Germ.  Or.  Society,  vi.  68  f.)  has  the 
following  observations  on  the  Adityas  :  "  There  (in  the  highest  heaven) 
dwell  and  reign  those  gods  who  bear  in  common  the  .name  of  Adityas. 
"We  must,  however,  if  we  would  discover  their  earliest  character,  aban- 
don the  conceptions  which  in  a  later  age,  and  even  in  that  of  the  heroic 
poems,  were  entertained  regarding  these  deities.  According  to  this 
conception  they  were  twelve  sun-gods,  bearing  evident  reference  to  the 
twelve  months.  But  for  the  most  ancient  period  we  must  hold  fast 
the  primary  signification  of  their  name.  They  are  the  inviolable,  im- 
perishable, eternal  beings.  Aditi,  eternity,  or  the  eternal,  is  the  ele- 
ment which  sustains  them  and  is  sustained  by  them."  See  above,  (p. 
37).  Further  on  he  adds:  "The  eternal  and  inviolable  element  in 
which  the  Adityas  dwell,  and  which  forms  their  essence,  is  the  celestial 
light.  The  Adityas,  the  gods  of  this  light,  do  not  therefore  by  any 
means  coincide  with  any  of  the  forms  in  which  light  w  manifested  in 
the  universe.  They  are  aeither  sun,  nor  moon,  nor  stars,  nor  dawn, 
but  the  eternal*  sustainers  of  this  luminous  life,  which  exists,  as  it 
were,  behind  all  these  phenomena." 

In  some  of  the  hymns  were  the  Adityas  (under  which  name  Yaruna, 
Mitra,  and  Aryaman  seem  chiefly,  if  not  exclusively,  to  be  intended), 
are  celebrated  (see  especially  ii<  27),  they  are  characterized  by  the 
epithets  "bright"  (suchayah),  "golden"  (hiranyaydJi),  "pure"  (dhdra- 
putdK),  "sinless"  (avrijinah\  "blameless"  (anavadydh},  "holy,"(nVa#a- 
nah")  "strong"  (kshattriydk,viu.  56, 1),  "kings,"  " resistless "(arishta A), 
"vast"  (uravati),  " d6ep  (gabhlrdh},  sleepless "'(asvapnajah],  "un- 
winking"  (ammishdh},106  "many-eyed"  (bhuryakshdh,  ii.  27,  3),  "far- 
observing"  (dirghadhiyali),  "fixed  in  their  purpose"  (dhritavratdh}. 
Distant  things  are  near  to  them,  ii.  27,  3  (sarvam  rdjabhyah  parama 

105  In  the  S'.  P.  Br.  iii.  5,  1,  13,  a  dispute  between  the  Adityas  and  Angirases 
regarding  a  sacrifice  is  mentioned.  (Comp.  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  9,  21, 1).  In  the  same  work, 
(the  S'p.  Br.)  xii.  2,  2,  9,  it  is  said  that  these  two  classes  of  beings  (the  Adityas  and 
Angirases)  were  both  descendants  of  Prajapati,  and  that  they  strove  together  for  the 
priority  in  ascending  to  heaven.     In  A.V.  xii.  3,  43  f.,  and  xix.  39,  5  also  they  are 
connected  with  one  another. 

106  This  is  a  characteristic  of  the  gods  in  general. 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA,  57 

chid  antf)t  they  uphold  and  preserve  things  both  moving  and  stationary 
(dhdrantayah  dditydso  jagat  sthdh  devdh  visvasya  Ihuvanasya  gopdh  \ 
ibjd.),  they  see  the  good  and  evil  in  men's  hearts,  and  distinguish  the 
honest  man  from  the  deceitful,  ii.  27,  3  (antph  pasyanti  vrijand  uta 
sddhu  |  viii.  18,  15,  p&kafacl  sthana  devdh  hritsu  jdriitha  martyam  \  upa 
dvayum  cha  advayufft,  cha),  they  are  holy  and  awful,  and  haters  of  false- 
hood and  punish  sin,  ii.  27,  4  (ritdvdnas  chayamdndh  nndni},  vii.  60,  51 
(ime  chetdro  anritasya  bhureh},  vii.  52,  2;  vii.  66,  13,  which  they  are 
entreated  to  forgive,  ii.  27, 14  ;  ii.  29,  5  ;  averting  from  the  worshipper 
the  consequences  of  the  transgressions  of  others  as  well  as  of  his  own, 
vii.  52,  2 ;  viii.  47,  8 ;  or  transferring  those  penalties  of  sin,  whether 
open  or  secret,  to  the  head  of  Trita  Aptya,  viii.  47,  13  (yad  dvir  yad 
apwhyam  devdso  asti  dushkritam  \  Trite  tad  visvam  Aptye  are  asmad 
dadhdtana]  ;107  and  they  spread  nooses  for  their  enemies,  ii.  27,  16  (yah 
vo  mdydh  alhidruhe  yajatrdh  pdsdh  dditydh  ripave  vichrittdh).  They 
are  supplicated  for  various  boons,  for  protection,  offspring,  guidance, 
light,  long  life,  etc.  (see  E.Y.  ii.  .27,  5-7,  10,  11,  14;  viii.  18,  22. 
In  viii.  47,  2,  they  are  said  to  know  how  to  remove  transgressions,  and 
are  besought  to  extend  their  protection  to  their  worshipper,  as  birds 
spread  their  wings  over  their  young  (vida  devdh  aghdndm  Aditydso  apd- 
Jcritim  \  pakshd  vayo  yathd  upari  vi  asme  sarma  yachhata  \  3.  Vi  asme 
adhi  sarma  tat  pakshd  vayo  na  yantana").108  Their  servants  are  protected 
by  them  as  a  warrior  is  when  encased  in  his  armour,  viii.  47,  8  (yushme 
devdh  api  smasi  yudhyantah  iva  varmafu),  and  then  no  shaft,  however 
sharp  or  heavy,  can  strike  them  (ibid.  7  :  na  tarn  tigmam  chana  tyajo  na 
drdsad  abhi  tarn  guru  \  yasmai  u  sarma  arddhvam  \  See  Miiller,  Trans, 
p.  255). 

The  A&tyas  regarded  as  a  class  of  gods'aife  net,  however,  character- 
ized so  specifically  in  the  hymns,  as  two  of  the  individual  deitrSs  who 
bear  that  general  designation,  I  mean  Yaruna  and  Mitra ;  and  I  shall, 
therefore,  proceed  to  give  a  fuller  account  of  the  two  latter,  (with  whose 
names  that  of  Aryaman  is  sometimes  associated),  omitting  any  further 
reference  to  Bhaga  and  Amsa,  who  are  rarely  mentioned,  and  to  Daksha, 
of  whom  something  has  been  already  said,  Surya  and  Savitri  will  be 
treated  separately. 

107  Roth,  s.v.  Trita  Aptya,  says  this  god  is  conceived  as  dwelling  in  the  remote 
distance,  removed  from  view,  and  that  it  is  in  consequence  of  this  that  evil  is  sought 
to  be  transferred  to  him. 

!<>8  Compare  Psalms,  xvii.  8 ;  xxxvi.  7 ;  Ixi.  4  ;  Ixiii.  7 ;  xci.  4. 


58  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 


SECTION    V. 

MITRA   AND    VARIJNA. 

(1)  General  idea  of  these  two  gods. 

These  two  deities  are  very  frequently  found  in  conjunction.  Varuna 
is  also  often  separately  celebrated ;  Mitra  but  seldom.  Their  frequent 
association  is  easily  explained  if  the  commentators  are  right  in  under- 
standing Mitra  to  •  represent  the  day,  and  Varuna  the  night.  Thus 
Sayana  says  on  H.V.  i.  89,  3  :  "Mitra  is  the  god  who  presides  over 
the  day,  according  to  the  Vedic'text,  'the  day  is  Mitra's'"  (ahar- 
abhimaninam  devam  \  "  Maitram  vai  ahar "  iti  iruteli) ;  and  again, 
"Varuna  is  derived  from  the  root  vri,  to  cover;  he  envelops  the  wicked 
in  his  snares ;  and  is  the  god  who  rules  over  the  night,  a«3ording  to 
the  text,  'the  night  is  Varuna' s109'"  (vrinoti  \  papakritah  svaklyaih 
pasair  avrinoti  iti  ratry-abhimani-devo  Varunah  \  sruyate  cha  "Varunl 
ratrir"  [Taitt.  Br.  i.  7,  10,  1]  iti  |).  In  the  same  way  the  commen- 
tator on  the  Taittirlya  Sanhita,  i.  8,  16,  1  (Bibl.  Ind.  vol.  ii.  p.  164), 
affirms  that  the  "word  Mitra  denotes  the  sun"  (Mitra-sabdasya  surya- 
vdchitvaf),  aad  that  the  "word  Varuna  signifies  one  who^envelops  like 

109  See  also  his  note  on  i.  141,  9,  where  he  gives  the  siine  explanation  regarding 
Mitra  and  Varuna,  and  adds  that  Aryaman  is  the  god  who  goes  between  the  other 
two  (Aryama  ubhayor  madhya-vartli  devah).  According  to  his  note  on  i.  90,  1, 
Aryaman  is  the  sun  who  makes  the  division  of  day  and  night  (Aryama  aho-ratra- 
vibhagasya  kartta  suryaJi).  Compare  also  his  note  on  ii.  38,  8,  where  he  says  that 
Varuna  is  represented  as  giving  resting-places  to  creatures  after  sunset,  because  he 
carries  on  the  affairs  of  the  night  (Yonim  slhanam  nimishi  nimeshe  Savitur  asta- 
samaye  sati  visramartham  pranibhyah  pvayachhati  \  Varunasya  ratrer  nirvahaka- 
tvai).  In  i.  ^35,  1,  Mitra  and  Varuna  are  invoked  along  with  Agni,  Night  and 
Savitri :  "  I  invoke  first  Agni  for  our  welfare ;  I  invoke  hither  Mitra  and  Varuna  to 
our  aid ;  I  invoke  Night  who  gives  rest  to  the  world ;  I  invoke  the  divine  Savitri  to 
our  assistance  "  (hvayami  Agnim  prathamam  svastaye  hvayami  Mitra-varunav  iha- 
vase  |  hvayami  ratrlmjagato  nive&anlm  hvayami  devam  Savitaram  utaye}. 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA,  5*9 

darkness  '*  ( Varuna-Sdbdasya  andhakdra-vad  dvaraka-vdchitvdf),  accord- 
ing to  the  text  (above  given,  in  p.  58,  of  the  Taittiriya  Brahmana, 
i.  f,  10,  1),  "the  day  is  Mitra's  and  the  night  is  Yaruna's."  In 
another  part  of  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita,  vi.  4,  8J  we  read :  Na  vat  idam 
diva  na  naktam  dsld  avyakritam  \  te  devdh  Mitrd-varundv  airman 
"idam  no  vivafayatam  "  iti  |  .  .  .  .  Mitro  'har  ajanayad  Varuno  rdtrim  \ 
"  This  world  had  neither  day  nor  .night,  but  was  (in  that  respect)  un- 
distinguished. The  gods  said  to  Mitra  and  Yaruna,  '  Make  a  separa- 
tion.' ....  Mitra  produced  the  day,  and  Varuna  the  night."  (See 
the  same  Sanhita  ii.  1,  7,  4.)  In  E.V.  viii.  41,  3,  it  is  said  of  Varuna, 
"  The  conspicuous  god  has  embraced  the  nights,  by  his  wisdom  he  has 
established  the  days,  and  everything  perfectly"  (sa  Itshapah parishasvaje 
ni  usro  may  ay  a  dadhe  sa  visvam  pari  darsatah  |).  In  his  note  on 
another  passage  (R.V.  vii.  87,  1)  Sayana  says  that  it  is  the  setting 
sun  which  is  called  Yaruna,  who  by  his  departure  creates  the  nights 
(Astam  gachhan  suryah  eva  Varunah  ity  uchyate  \  sa  hi  sva-gamanena 
rdtrir  janayati  |).  The  Satapatha*  Brahmana,  xii.  9,  2,  12,  says: 
"This  (terrestrial)  world  is  Mitra;  the  other  (the  celestial)  world  is 

Yaruna  "  (ay am  vai  loko  Mitrah  \  asau  Varunah  |) 

.  •• 

•» 

(2)  Their  chief  characteristics. 

The  following  are  some  of  the  principal  characteristics  of  these  gods,  as 
represented  in  the  Big-veda.  Yaruna  is,,sometimes  at  least,  visible  to  the 
mental  eye  of  his  worshippers.  Th^is,  in  i.  25, 18,  the  rishi  says :  Darsam 
nu  visva-dar£atam  darsam  ratham  adhi  kshami  \  "I  beheld  him  who  is 
visible  to  allj  I  beheld  his  chariot  upon  the  ground."  In  vii.  88,  2, 
also,  the  p<»et  exclain\s :  Adha  nu  asya  sari&risam^jaganvdn  Agner  anl- 
kam  Varunasya  mamsi  \  "  When  I  have  obtained  a  vision  of  Yariina,  I 
have  regarded  his  lustre  as  resembling  that  of  Agni."  110  Mighty  and 
fixed  in  purpose,  he  sits  in  his  abode  exercising  sovereignty  (i.  25,  10  : 
Ni  shasdda  dhritavrato  Varunah  pasty dsu  a  \  samrdjydya  sukratuh  |).  He 
is  arrayed  in  golden  mail,111  and  surrounded^  by  his  messengers  or 
angels  (i.  25,  13 :  Bilhrad  drdpim  hiranyayam  Varuno  vasta  nirnijam  \ 

110  See  Eoth's  article  on  "The  highest  gods  of  the  Arian  races,"  Journ.  Germ.  Or. 
Society,  vi.  71. 

111  Goldea  mail  is  also  assigned  to  Savitri  (iv.  53,  2)*. 


60  THE    INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 

pari  spaso  ni  shedire).  His  house,  at  which  the  worshippers  &e  said  to 
have  arrived,  has  a  thousand  doors  (vii.  88,  5 :  Brihantam  mdnam 
Varuna  svadhdvah  sahasradvdram  jagama  griham  te).  Again  he 'is 
described  as  occupying,  along  with  Mitra,  a  stable  palace  supported  by  a 
thousand  columns112  (ii.  41,  5  :  Rdj'dnd  analhidruhd  dhruve  sadasi  ut- 
tame  \  sahasrasthune  dsate  \  v.  62,  6 :  Rdjand  Icshattram  aTirinlyamdna 
sahasrasthunam  lilhrithah  saha  dvaq-\}.  The  two, deities  ascend  their 
chariot,  which  is  drawn  by  horses,  and  is  golden-coloured  at  the  break 
of  day,  and  takes  the  hue  of  iron  at  the  setting  of  the  sun  (v.  62,  8, 
already  quoted  in  p.  42). 113  Mounted  on  their  car,  and  soaring  in  the 
highest  empyrean,  they  behold  all  things  in  heaven  and  earth  (v.  62, 

4,  8 ;  v.  63,  1  :    Ritasya  gopav  adhi  tishthato  ratham  satyadharmand 
parame  vyomani).     Varuna  is  said  to  be  farsighted  (uruchakshas,  i.  25, 

5,  16 ;  viii.  90,  2) ;   and  thousand-eyed  (sahasrachakshas,  vii.  34,  10). 
In  one  place  mention  is  made  of  his  golden-winged  messenger  (hiranya- 
paksham  Varunasya  dutam,  x.  123,  6),  and  elsewhere  the  sun  is  called 
the  eye  of  Mitra  and  Varuna  (chakshur  Mitrasya  Varunasya,  vii.  61, 
1 ;    vii.  63,   1 ;    x.  37,  1).      Along  with  Aryaman*  another  of  the 
Adityas,  these  two  god§  are  called  sun-eyed  (surachakshasah,  vii.  66, 
10).  They  are  also  denominated  supdm,  the  beautiful  or  skilfr  1-handed. 
Varuna  is  frequently  spoken  of  as  a  king  (raja  Varunah,  i.  24,  7,  8 ; 
iv.  1,  2 ;  v.  40,  7;  vii.  64,  1  ;  x.  103,  9;  x.  173,  5)  ;    as  king  of  all 
(x.  132,  4);  as  king  of  all,  both  gods  and  men  (ii.  27,  10:  tvam  vi£- 
veshdm  Varuna  asi  rdja  ye  cha  Sevdh  asura  ye  cha  marttdh  |) ;  as  king 
of  the  universe  (visvasya  bhuvanasyafv.  85,  3),  and  of  all  that  exists 
(sato  asya,  vii.  87,  6);  as  an  universal  monarch  (samrdt,  i.  25,  10;  ii. 
28,  6;  v.   85,  1;   vi.  68<  9t ;   viii.  42,  1);   as  a  self-dependent  ruler 
svartit,  ii.  28,  1).     The  same  epithets  of  king  and  universal  monarch 
are  also  applied  in  other  places  to  Mitra  and  Varuna  conjointly  (as  in 
i.  71,  9  ;  i.  136, 1,4;  i.  137, 1 ;  v.  62,  6 ;  v.  63,  2,  3,  5  ;  v.  65,  2 ;  v.  68, 
2 ;  vii.  64,  2 ;  viii.  23,  30 ;  viii.  25,  4,  7,  8 ;  viii.  90,  2 ;  x.  65,  5).1U 

112  Compare  Ovid.  Met.  ii.  1  ff.    Regia  Solis  erat  sublimibus  alta  columnis,  etc. 
His  golden  house  is,  according  to  A.V.  vii.  83,  1,  built  in  the  waters  (apsu  te  rajan 
Varuna  griho  hiranyayo  mitah}. 

113  I  follow  Roth  here  in  understanding  udita  suryasya  not  of  the  rising  (as  the 
phrase  generally  means),  but  of  the  setting  of  the  sun.    It  is  thus  only  that  the  iron 
colour  of  the  chariot  becomes  intelligible. 

114  The  same  deities  with  Aryaman  are  called  kings  in  i.  41,  3  ;  and  kings  of  men 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA.  61 

Power, 'martial  strength,  or  sovereign  authority,  hhattra,  is  also 
constantly  predicated  of  one  or  both  of  these  deities ;  and  they  as  well 
as  the  Adityas  generally  are  denominated  the  strong,  or  martial,  gods, 
fahattriyah  (as  in  i.  24,  6;  i.  25,  5 ;  i.  136,  1 ;  v.  66,  2;  v.  67,  1  ; 
v.  68,  1,  3;  vi.  49,  1 ;  vi.  51,  10  ;115  vi.  67,  5,  6;  vii.  34,  11;  vii. 
64,  2;  viii.  25,  8;*Tiii.  56,  1  ;  viii.  90,  2).  They  are  also  designated 
as  rudrd,  the  terrible  (v.  70,  2,  3,) ;  as  asurd,  the  divine  (vii.  36,  2  ; 
viii.  25,  4 ;  viii.  27,  20) ;  as  the  divine  and  lordly  deities  (asurd  tdv 
arya]  among  the  gods  (vii.  65,  2).  The  epithet  asura,  divine,  is  fre- 
quently applied  to  Varuna  in  particular  (as  in  i.  24,  14;  ii.  27,  10; 
v.  85,  5,  6;  viii.  42,  1),  though  it  is  also  given  to  other  deities  of  the 
Vedic  pantheon. 

Another  word  employed  to  express  their  divine  power,  or  wisdom,  is 
vnaya  ;116  and  Varuna  is  sometimes  called  the  may  in,  the  possessor  of 
this  attribute  (vi.  48,  14;  vii.  28,  4;  x.  99^  10;  x.  147,  5).  While 
in  some  places  (iii.  61,  7  ;  v.  63,  4)  this  quality  (mayo]  is  ascribed  to 
the  two  deities  themselves,  in  othei'  verses  of  the  last  quoted  hymn 
(v.  63,  3,  7)  they  are  said  to  cause  the  heaven  to  rain,  and  to  uphold 
their  ordinances,  through  the  power  (rnayaya)  of  the  divine  being 
(asurasya\.  It  might  appear  as  if  the  word  asura  denoted  here  some  great 
deity  distinct  from,  and  superior  to,  Mitra  and  Varuna,  through  whose 
strength  they  acted ;  but  in  other  places,  as  we  have  already  seen,  the 
term  asura  is  distinctly  used  as  an  epithet  of  Varuna  and  the  other 
Adityas. 

(3)  Functions  and  attributes  of  Varuna. 

The  grandest  cosmical  functions  are  ascribed  to  Varuna.  Possessed 
of  illimitable  resources  (or  knowledge),  fhrs  diyine  being  has  meted 
out,  (or  fashioned),  and  upholds,  heaven  and  earth;  he  dwells^in  all 
worlds  as  sovereign  ruler  (viii.42,  1  :  Astalhnad  dyum  asuro  visva- 
vedah  amimlta  varimanam  prithivyuh  |  usldad  visvd  bhuvandni  samrdd 
visvd  it  tdni  Varunasya  vratdni],  indeed,  the  three  worlds  are  em- 

(rajanas  charshanlnam)  in  x.  26,  6.  In  vii.  66,  11,  it«js  said:  "The  kings  Mitra, 
Varuna,  and  Aryaman,  who  established  the  year,  the  month,  and  the  day,  etc.,  enjoy 
unrivalled  dominion  (ye  vi  dadhuh  s'aradam  masam  ad  ahar  yajnam  aktum  cha  ad 
richam  \  anapyam  Varuno  Mitro  Aryama  kshatram  rajanah  cisata). 

115  In  these  two  last  passages  Agni  shares  with  Mitra  and  Varuna  the  epithet  of 
sukshatra. 

116  It  is  also  ascribed  to  other  deities  :  see  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v. 


62  THE  INDIAN  GODS   GENERALLY, 

• 
braced  "within;  him   (vii.    87,   5  :    tisro   dydvo    nihitdh  antar  asmin 

tisro  bhumlh}  ;  he  made  the  golden  and  revolving  sun  to  shine 
in  the  firmament  (ibid,  gritso  raja  Varunak  chakre  etam  divi  prvn- 
kham  hiranyayam  Subhw  kam  \  comp.  v.  85,  2).  See  also  vi.  70,  I  ; 
vii.  86,  1;  vii.  87,  6;  viii.  41,  4,  5,  10.  The  wind  which  resounds 
through  the  atmosphere  is  his  breath  (vii.  87,  2  :  d4md  t$  vdto  rajah  a 
navmot}.  He  has  opened  boundless^  paths  for  the€  sun,117  and  has  hol- 
lowed out  channels  for  the  rivers,  which  flow  by  his  command  (i.  24, 
8  :  Urum  hi  .raja  Varunas  chakdra  siirydya  panthdm  anu  etave  u  \  ii. 
28,  4 :  Pro,  slm  Adityo  asrijad  vidharttd  ritam  sindhave  Varunasya 
yanti  \  vii.  87,  1  :  Radat  patho  Varunah  surydya  praa  rndmsi  samudriyd 
nadlndm).  By  his  wonderful  contrivance  the  rivers  pour  their  waters 
into  the  one  ocean,  but  never  fill  it118  (v.  85,  6:  imam  u  nu  kavitam- 
asya  mdydm  mahlm  devasya  nakir  ddadhdrsha  \  ekam  yad  udnd  na  prin- 
anti  eriir  tisinchantir  avanayah  samudram).  His  ordinances  are  fixed 
and  unassailable  m  (iii.  54,  18  :  Adaldhdni  Varunasya  vratdni].  They 
rest  on  him,  unshaken,  as  upon  a  mountain  (ii.  28,  8  :  Tve  hi  Jcam  par- 
vote  na  sritdni aprachyutdni  dulabha  vratdni  \  See  also  i!  25,  6,  10;  i.  44, 
14;  i.  141,  9;  ii.  1,  4;'viii.  25,  2,  where  the  word  dhrita-vrata,  "he 
whose  laws  are  fixed,"  is  found);  through  their  operation,ethe  moon 
walks  in  brightness,  and  the  stars  which  appear  in  the  nightly  sky 
mysteriously  vanish  in  daylight  (i.  24,  10:  Ami  ye  rilcshdh  nihitdsah 
uchchd  fuilctam  dadrisre  kuha  chid  diva  lyuh  \  adabdhdni  Varunasya 
vratdni  vichdkasach  chandramd  foaktam  eti}.  Neither  the  birds  flying 
in  the  air,  nor  the  rivers  in  their  sleepless  flow,  can  attain  a  knowledge 
of  his  power  pr  his  wrath  (i.  24,  6 :  Na  hi  te  kshatram  na  saho  na  man- 
yum  vayas  chana  ami  patayantah  dpuh  \  na  imdh  dpo  animisham  cha- 
rantlh}.  His  messengers  behold  both  worlds  (v?i.  87,  3  :  *Pari  spaso 
Varunasya  smadtshtdh  ubhe  pasyanti  rodasl  sumeke  \  See  also  i.  24,  13 ; 
vi.  67,  5).  He  knows  the  flight  of  birds  in  the  sky,  the  path  of  ships 
on  the  ocean,  the  course  of  the  far-travelling  wind,  and  beholds  all  the 

117  In  vii.  60,  4,  Mitra,  Varuna,  and  Aryaman  are  said  to  open  out  paths  for  the 
sun  (yasmai  aditynh  adhvano  radanti  ityadf). 

118  See  Roth  on  "The  highest  gods  of  the  Arian  races,"  p.  71.     Compare  Eccle- 
siastes,  i.  7  :  "  All  the  rivers  run  into  the  sea ;  yet  the  sea  is  not  full :  unto  the  place 
from  whence  the  rivers  come,  thither  they  return  again." 

119  See  Roth  in  the  Journ.  Amer.  Or.  Society,  iii.  341 ;  and  MUller's  Anc.  Sansk. 
Lit.  p.  534,  note  2. 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA.  63 

secret  thiags  that  have  been,  or  shall  be  done  (i.  25,  7  :  Veda  yo  vindm 
padam  antarikshena  patatdm  \  v$da  ndvah  samudriyah  \  9.  Veda  vdtasya 
wttam'm  uror  rishvasya  Irihatah  \  11.  Yo  visvdni  adbhutd  chikitvdn 
abhi  pasyati  \  Tcritdni  yd  cha  kartvd}.  No  c/eature  can  even  wink 
without  him  (ii.  28,  6  :  2fa  hi  tvad  are  nimishas  chana  lie].  He  wit- 
'  nesses  men's  truth  and  falsehood  (vii.  49,  3  :  Ydsdm  raja  Varuno  ydti 
madhye  satydnrite  avapasyan  Jandndm).  He  instructs  the  rishi  Va- 
sishtha  in  mysteries  (vii.  87,  4 :  Uvdcha  me  Varuno  medhirdya  trih 
sapta  ndmd  aghnyd  lilhartti'}.  But  his  secrets  and  those  of  Mitra  are 
not  to  be  revealed  to  the  foolish  (na  vdm  ninydni  achite  abhuvan). 

In  the  sixteenth  hymn  of  the  fourth  book  of  the  Atharva-veda,  his 
power  and  omniscience  are  thus  celebrated  : 

1.  Brihann  eshdm  adhishthdtd  antikdd  iva  pasyati  \  yah  stdyan  man- 
yate  char  an  sarvam  devdh  idam  viduh  \  2.  Yas  tishthati  charati  yas  cha 
vanchati  yo  nildyam  charati  yah  pratankam  \  dvau  sannishadya  yad  man- 
trayete  rdjd  tad  veda  Varunas  tritlyah  \  3.  Uteyam  Ihiimir  Varunasya 
rdjnah  utdsau  dyaur  Irihati  dure-antd  \  uto  samudrau  Varunasya 
TcuTcshl  utdsminn  "alpe  udake  nilinah  \  4.  Uta  yo  dydm  atisarpdt  paras- 
tdd  na  sa  muchydtai  Varunasya  rdjnah  \  divah  spasah  pracharantldam 
asya  sahas^dkshdh  ati  pasyanti  Ihumim  \  5.  Sarvam  tad  *rdjd  Varuno  vi 
chashte  yad  antard  rodasi  yat  parastdt  \  sankhydtdh  asya  nimisho  j'and- 
ndm  akshdn  iva  svaghnl  ni  minoti  tdni  \  6.  Ye  te  pdsdh  Varuna  sapta 
sapta  tredhd  tishthanti  vishitdh  rushantah  \  sinantu  sarve  anritam  vadan- 
tam  yah  satyavddl  ati  tain  srijantu  \  ' 

"  1.  The  great  One  who  rules  over  these  worlds  beholds  as  if  he 
were  close  at  hand.  When  any  man  thinks  he  is  doing  aught  by 
stealth,  the  gods  know  it  allj  2.  (and  they  perceive)  every  one  who 
stands,  or  walks,  or  glides  along  secretly,  or  withdraws  into  his  house, 
or  into  any  lurking-place.120  Whatever  two  persons,  sitting  together, 
devise,  Varuna  the  king  knows  it,  (being  present  there  as)  a  third.121 
3.  This  earth,  two,  belongs  to  the  king  Varuna,  and  that  vast  sky 
whose  ends  are  so  remote.  The  two  oceans  [the  aerial  and  terrestrial]122 
are  Varuna's  stomachs ;  he  resides  in  this  smali  pool  of  water.  4.  He 

120  The  general  sense  is  clear ;  but  the  meaning  of  some  of  the  words  is  uncertain. 

121  In  R.V.  x.  11,  1,  Agni  is  compared  to  Varuna  in  omniscience ;  which  seems  to 
show  that  this  is  an  attribute  in  which  Varuna  was  regarded  as  pre-eminent.     With 
verses  1  and  2,  compare  Psalm  cxxxix.  1-4,  and  St.  Matthew  xviii.  20. 

122  Compare  Genesis,  i.  7,  and  Psalm  cxlviii.  4. 


64  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 

who  should  flee  far  beyond  the  sky,  would  not  there  escape  froth  Varuna 
the  king.123  His  messengers,  descending  from  heaven,  traverse  this 
world ;  thousand-eyed,  they  look  across  the  whole  earth.  5.  Kfhg 
Varuna  perceives  all  that  exists  within  heaven  and  earth  and  all  that 
is  beyond.  The  winkings  of  men's  eyes  are  all  numbered  by  him.124 
He  handles 125  (all)  these  (things)  as  a  gamester  throWs  his  dice.  6.  May 
thy  destructive  nooses,  o  Varuna,  wtich  are  cast  se^en-fold,  and  three- 
fold, ensnare  the  man  who  speaks  lies,  and  pass  by  him  who  speaks 
truth."  1M 

Varuna  is  represented  as  having  unlimited  control  over  the  destinies 
of  mankind.  He  is  said  to  have  a  hundred,  a  thousand  remedies,  and  is 
supplicated  to  shew  his  wide  and  deep  benevolence,  and  drive  away 

123  "With  this  verse  compare  verses  7-10  of  the  Psalm  cxxxix. 

124  Compare  St.  Matthew  x.  30. 

125  Both,  s.v.  thinks  ni  minotc  here  may  mean  "  observes."     See  also  his  remarks 
in  Jour.  Germ.  Or.  Society,  vii.  607,  where  the  sense  of  superintending  is  assigned. 

126  The  hymn  is  concluded  hy  two  verses,  containing  imprecations.     After  giving  a 
German  translation  of  the  whole  in  his  Dissertation  on  the  A^harva-veda,  p.  19  f. 
(Tubingen,  1856)  Professor  P^oth  remarks  as  follows:  "There  is  no  hymn  in  the 
whole  Vedic  literature  which  expresses  the  divine  omniscience  in  such  forcible  terms 
as  this ;  and  yet  this  beautiful  description  has  been  degraded  into  an  intrpduction  to 
an  imprecation.     But  in  this,  as  in  many  other  passages  of  this  Veda,  it  is  natural 
to  conjecture  that  existing  fragments  of  older  hymns  have  been  used  to  deck  out 
magical  formulas.     The  first  five  or  even  six  verses  of  this  hymn  might  be  regarded 
as  a  fragment  of  this  sort."    This  hymn  has  also  been  translated  by  Professor  Mullen 
see  "  Chips,"  i.  41  f.     I  have  attempted  the  following  paraphrase  in  English  verse  : 

"  The  mighty  Lord  on  high,  our  deeds,  as  if  at  hand,  espies  : 
The  gods  know  all  men  do,  though  men  would  fain  their  deeds  disguise. 
Whoever  stands,  whoever  moves,  or  steals  from  place  to  place, 
Or  hides  him  in  his  secret  cell, — the  gods  his  movements  trace. 
Wherever  two  VgetKjrrplot,  and  deem  they  are  alone, 
,     King  Varuna  is  there,  a  third,  and  all  their  schemes  are  known. 
This  earth  is  his,  to  him  belong  those  vast  and  boundless  skies ; 
Both  seas  withm  him  rest,  and  yet  in  that  small  pool  he  lies. 
Whoever  far  beyond  the  sky  should  think  his  way  to  wing, 
He  could  not  there  elude  the  grasp  of  Varuna  the  king. 
His  spies  descending  from  the  skies  glide  all  this  world  around, 
Their  thousand  eyes  all-scanning  sweep  to  earth's  remotest  bound. 
Whate'er  exists  in  heaven  and  earth,  whate'er  beyond  the  skies, 
Before  the  eyes  of  Varuna,  the  king,  unfolded  lies. 
The  ceaseless  winkings  all  he  counts  of  every  mortal's  eyes : 
He  wields  this  universal  frame,  as  gamester  throws  his  dice. 
Those  knotted  nooses  which  thou  fling'st,  o  god,  the  bad  to  snare, — 
All  liars  let  them  overtake,  but  all  the  truthful  spare.'' 


AS  REPRESENTED  IN  THE  RIG-VEDA.  65 

t 
evil  and  sin  (i.  24,  9  :  &atarn  te  rdjan  Ihishajah  sahasram  urvl  galhlrd 

su/natis  te  astu  \  bddhaxva  dure  nirritim  pardchaih  kritani  chid  enah  pro, 
mumugdhi  asmat] ;  to  untie,  like  a  rope,  and  rempve  sin  (ii.  28,  5 :  vi  mack 
srathaya  rasandm  iva  dgjih ;  v.  85,  7,  8  :  yat  slm  dgas  chakrima  sisra- 
thas  tat}  •  he  is  entreated  not  to  steal  away,  but  to  prolong,  life  (i.  24, 
11  :  md  nah  dyuh  pro,  moshlh  \  i.  25,  12  :  pro,  nah  dyumshi  tdrishaf) ; 
and  to  spare  the  suppliant  who  daily  transgresses  his  laws  (i.  25,  1  : 
yach  chid  hi  te  viso  yathd  pra  deva  Varuna  vratam  mimmasi  dyavi 
dyavi  \  md  no  ladhdya  hatnave  jihlldnasya  rlradhah).  In  many  places 
mention  is  made  of  the  bonds,  or  nooses,  with  which  he  seizes  and 
punishes  transgressors  (i.  24,  15;  i.  25,  21;  vi.  74,  4;  x.  85,  24,  and 
A.V.  iv.  16,  6,  as  quoted  above).127  Mitra  and  Yaruna  conjointly  are 
spoken  of  in  one  passage  (vii.  65,  3)  as  being  barriers  against  falsehood, 
furnished  with  many  nooses,  which  the  hostile  mortal  cannot  surmount 
(bhuripdsd  anritasya  setu  duratyetu  ripave  martydya) ;  and  in  another 
place  (vii.  84,  2)  Indra  and  Varuna  are  described  as  binding  with 
bonds  not  formed  of  rope  (setribhir  arajjulhih  sinlthah\  On  the  other 
hand  Yaruna  is  said  to  be  gracious  even  to  'him  who  has  committed 
sin  (vii.  87,  7  :  yo  mrilaydti  chaJcrushe  chid  dgah}.  He  is  the  wise 
guardian  of  immortality  (viii.  42,  2  :  dhlram  amritasya  gopdm],  and  a 
hope  is  held  out  that  he  and  Yama  reigning  in  blessedness  shall  be 
beheld  in  the  next  world  by  the  righteous  (x.  14,  7  : 128  ubhd  rdjdnd 
svadhayd  madantd  Yamam  pasydsi  Tarxnam  cha  devawi). 

127  Agni,  however,  is  also  prayed  to  loose  his  worshipper's  bonds  R.V.  v.  2,  7 
(evasmad  Agne,  ni  mumugdhi  pasan] ;  and  in  vii.  104,  13,  Indra's  tetters  (Indrasya 
ptasitih]  are  mentioned.  In  A.V.  xix.  66,  1,  the  Aswr^,  masters  of  magical  arts,  who 
go  about  wnh  iron  nets,  ?ron  bonds,  and  hooks,  are  referred  to  (ayo-jalah  Asurah  ma- 
yino  ayasmayaih  pusair  ankino  ye  charantt). 

123  In  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society  for  1855,  pp.  237  ff.,  Professor 
Weber  communicates  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  (xi.  6,  1,  1  ff.)  a  legend  regard- 
ing Varuna  and  his  son  Bhrigu.  The  latter  had  esteemed  himself  superior  to  his 
father  in  wisdom,  and  was  desired  by  him  to  visit  the  four  points  of  the  compass, 
where  he  witnesses  certain  visions  of  retribution  in  the  other  world.  Prof.  Weber 
accompanies  this  legend  with  some  very  interesting  remarks.  Among  other  things, 
he  observes  that  the  legend  is  shewn  to  be  ancient  from  the  high  position  which  it 
assigns  to  Varuna,  who  appears  to  be  conceived  as  the  lord  of  the  universe,  seated  in 
the  midst  of  heaven,  from  which  he  surveys  the  places  of  punishment  situated  all 
round  him.  Varuna,  he  adds,  is  represented  in  the  S'atapatha  Bruhmana  xiii.  3,  6, 5, 
as  having  the  form  of  a  fair,  bald,  toothless,  (with  projecting  teeth  ?),  and  yellow- 
eyed  old  man. 

5 


66  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 

The  attributes  and  functions  ascribed  to  Varuna  impart  to  his  cha- 
racter a  moral  elevation  and  sanctity  far  surpassing  that  attributed  to 
any  other  Vedic  deity.  ^This  appears  not  only  from  the  passages  to 
which  I  have  already  referred,  but  also  from  the  two  hymns  (vii.  86, 
and  vii.  89)  translated  by  Professor  Miiller  in  his  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  pp. 
540  f.,  and  Chips,  i.  39  ff. ;  in  which  the  rishi,  who  is  said  to  be  Va- 
sishtha,  while  palliating  his  sins,  implores  the  god's  forgiveness,  and 
entreats  that  his  life  may  be  spared.129  I  shall  quote  a  part  of  the  first 
and  the  whole  of  the  second : 

R.V.  vii.  86,  3.  PriMie  tad  eno  Varv^a  didrikshu  upo  emi  chikitusho 
viprichtiam  \  samdnam  it  me  kavayas  chid  dhur  ayam  ha  tubhyam  Varuno 
hrt'mte  \  4.  Km  dgah  dsa  Yaruna  jyestham  yat  stotdram  jighdmsasi 
sakhdyam  \  pra  tad  me  vocho  dulabha  svadhdvo  ava  tvd  anendh  namasd 
turah  iydm  \  5.  Ava  drugdhdni  pitryd  srija  no  ava  yd  vayam  chakrima 
tanulhih  \  ava  rdjan  pasufaipam  na  tdyum  srija  vatsam  na  ddmno  Va- 
sishtham  \  6.  Na  sa  svo  daksho  Varuna  dhrutih  sd  surd  manyur  vibhidako 
achittih  |  asti  jydyun  hariiyasah  updre  svapnas  chana  id  anritasya 
prayotd  I 

"  Seeking  tocperceive  that  sin,  o  Varuna,  I  inquire;  I  resort  to  the 
wise  to  ask.  The  sages  all  tell  me  the  same ;  it  is  Varuna  who  is 
angry  with  thee.  4.  What  great  sin  is  it,  Varuna,  for  which  thou 
seekest  to  slay  thy  worshipper  and  friend  ?  Tell  me,  o  unassailable 
and  self-dependent  god ;  and,  freed  from  sin,  I  shall  speedily  come  to 
thee  with  adoration.  5.  Release  us  from  the  sins  of  our  fathers,130 
and  from  those  which  we  have  committed  in  our  own  persons.  0  king, 
release  Vasishtha  like  a  robber  who  has  fed  upon  cattle ;  release  him 
like  a  calf  from  its  ttther.  6.  It  was  not  our  will,  Varuna^  but  some 
seduction,  which  led  us  astray, — wine,131  anger,  dice,  or  thoughtlessness. 
The  stronger  perverts  the  weaker.  Even  sleep  occasions  sin." 

129  On  the  character  of  Varuna  as  a  moral  governor,  see  Roth,  Journ.  Germ.  Or . 
Society,  vi.  7 1  ff. ;  a  paper  by "  the  same  author  in  the  Journ.  Amer.  Or.  Society, 
in.  340  ff. ;  and  his  reply  to  Weher  in  the  Journ.  Germ.  Or.  Society,  vii.  607. 

130  Compare  A. V.  v.  30,  4,  and  TaittirTya  Brahmaya  iii.  7, 12,  3,  4  :  yad  mayi  mata 
garbhe  sati  enas  chakara  yat  pita  \  Agnir  md  tasmad  enasah  \  yada  pipesha  mataram 
pitaram  putrah  pramudito  dhayan  \  ahimsitau  pitarau  maya  tat  \  "  May  Agni  (free) 
me  from  the  sin  which  my  mother  or  father  committed,  when  I  was  in  the  womh.    If 
I  bruised  my  mother  or  father  while  sucking,  delighted,  when  an  infant,  may  my 
parents  not  have  been  injured  thereby." 

!3i  We  see  from  this  that  wine  was  drunk  by  the  Vedic  rishis.     Compare  viii.  2, 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA.  67 

j 

vii.  89,  1.  Mo  shu  Varuna  mrinmayam  griham  rdjann  aham  gamam  \ 
"firila  suhkatra  mrilaya  \  2.  Yad  emi  prasphurann  iva  dritir  na  dhmdto 
adrivah  \  mrila  ityddi  \  3.  Kratvah  samah  "•  dlnatd  pratlpam  jagama 
iuche  |  4.  Apdm  madhye  tasthivdmsam  trishnd  'vidajjaritdram  \  5.  Tat 
kincha  idam  Varuna  daivye  jane  alhidroham  manushyds  chardmasi  \ 

achitti  tat  tava  dharmd  yuyopima  ma  nas  tasmdd  enaso  deva  rlrishah  \ 
>  i 

"  Let  me  not,  o  king  Varuna,  go  to  the  house  of  earth.132  Be  gracious, 
o  mighty  god,  be  gracious.  2.  I  go  along,  o  thunderer,  quivering  like 
an  inflated  skin ;  be  gracious,  etc.  3.  0  bright  and  mighty  god,  I 
have  transgressed  through  w*nt  of  power,  be  gracious,  etc.  4.  Thirst 
has  overwhelmed  thy  worshipper  when  standing  even  in  the  midst  of 
the  waters  ;  be  gracious,  etc.  5.  "Whatever  offence  this  be,  o  Varuna, 
that  we  mortals  commit  against  the  people  of  the  sky  (the  gods) :  in 
whatever  way  we  have  broken  thy  laws  by  thoughtlessness,  be  gracious, 
o  mighty  god,  be  gracious." 

In  another  place  (vii.  88,  4  ff.)  ihe  same  rishi  alludes  to  his  previous 
friendship  witk  Varuna,  and  to  the  favours  the  god  had  formerly  con- 
ferred upon  him,  and  enquires  why  they  had  now  ceased  : 

4.  Vasishtham  ha  Varuno  ndvi  ddhdd  rishim  chakdra  svapdh  maholhih  \ 
stotdram  viprah  sudinatve  ahndm  ydd  nu  dydvas  tatanan  ydd  ushasah  \ 

5.  Kva  tydni  nau  salchyd  labhuvuh  sachdvahe  yad  avrikam  purd  chit  \ 
Irihantam  mdnam  Varuna  svadhdvuh  sahasradvdram  jagama  griham  te  \ 

6.  Yah  dpir  nityo  Varuna  priyah  san  tvdm  agdmsi  krinavat  sakhd  te  \ 
md  te  enasvanto  yakshin  bhujema  yandhi  sma  viprah  stuvate  varutham  \ 

"  Varuna  placed  Vasishtha  on  his  boat :  by  his  pow§r  the  wise  and 
mighty  deity  made  him  a  rishi  to  offer  praise  in  an  auspicious  period  of 
his  life,  that  his  days  and  dawns  might  be  prolonged.  5.  Where 133 
are  those  friendships  of  us  two  ?  Let  us  seek  the  harmony  which  (we 
enjoyed)  of  old.  I  have  gone,  o  self-sustaining  Varuna,  to  thy  vast 
and  spacious  house  with  a  thousand  gates.  6.  He  who  was  thy  friend, 
intimate,  thine  own,  and  beloved,  has  committed  offences  against  thee:' 
Let  not  us  who  are  guilty  reap  the  fruits  of  our  sin.  Do  thou,  a  wise 
god,  grant  protection  to  him  who  praises  thee." 

12,  and  x.  107,  9,  where  it  is  said  that  the  liberal  man  gains  for  himself,  among  other 
desirable  things,  a  draught  of  wine  (antahpeyam  surayah). 

132  Compare  A.V.  v.  30,  14  :  ma  nu  bhumi-griho  bhwat. 

133  Compare  Psalms  IxxxLx.  49,  and  xxv.  6. 


68  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 


(4)   Conjoint  functions  and  attributes  of  Mitra  and  Varuna.       <. 

c 

The  same  or  nearly  the  same  functions  and  attributes  as  are  ascribed 
to  Varuna  are  also  attributed  to  him  and  Mitra  conjointly.  They  up- 
hold and  rule  over  the  earth  and  sky,  the  shining  and  the  terrestrial 
regions,  and  place  the  sun  in  the  heavens  (v.  62,  3*;  v.  69,  1,  4 :  trl 
rochand  Varuna  trln  uta  dyun  trini  dhdrayatho  rajdmsi  \  v.  63,  7 ;  vi. 
67,  5;  vii.  61,  4;  x.  132,  2).  They  are  the  guardians  of  the  world 
(visvasya  bhuvanasya  gopd  \  visvasya  goffd  \  yuyam  visvam  pari  pdtna  \ 
ii.  27,  4;  v.  62,  9;  vii.  51,  2;  viii.  25,  1  ;  x.  126,  4).  By  their 
ordinance  the  great  sky  shines  (yayor  dhdma  dharmand  rochate  brihat  \ 
x.  65,  5).  They  discharge  the  rain  (v.  62,  3  :  ava  vrishtim  srijatam 
jlraddnu  \  v.  63,  1-3 :  dydm  varshayatho  asurasya  mdyaya).  Their 
godhead  is  beyond  the  ken  bf  the  skies,  or  of  rivers  (i.  151,  9  :  na  vdm 
dydvo  ahabhir  nota  sindhavo  na  devatvam  panayo  ndnasur  maaham}. 
They  (together  with  Aryaman)  are  awful  deities,  hatese  and  dispellers 
of  falsehood  (i.  152,  l;<vii.  66,  13:  ritavdnah  ritajdtdh  riidvridho 
ghordso  anrita-Uvishah}.  They  carry  out  their  fixed  purposes,  which 
are  unobstructed  even  by  the  immortal  gods  (v.  63,  7 ;  v.  69,  4 :  na 
vdm  devdh  amritdh  d  minanti  vratdni  Mitrd-varund  dhruvdni}.  They 
make  the  foolish  wise  (vii.  60,  6,  7  :  achetasam  chick  chitayanti  dalc- 
shaih} ;  they  know  heaven  and*  earth  (vii.  60,  7  :  ime  divo  animishd 
prithivyds  chiTtitvdfhsaK].  They  look  down  from  heaven  observing  men 
as  if  herds  of  cattle  (adhi  yd  brihato  divah  abhi  yutheva  pasyatah  \  See 
also  verses  9  and  16,  and  E.V.  vii.  60,  3).  They  are  described  as 
righteous,  and  as  promoters  of  religious  rites  (or <•  truth  or  righteous- 
ness) ritdvridhd,  ritdvdnd,  ritajdtd,  ritasprisd,  ritasya  gopau  (i.  2,  8  ; 
i.  23,  5 ;  i.  136,  4 ;  ii.  27,  4;  v.  63,  1  ;  v.  65,  2  ;  v.  67,  4 ;  vii.  64, 
2;  vii.  66,  13;  viii.  23,  30;  viii.  25,  8),  as  the  lords  of  truth  and 
light  (ritasya  jyotishas  patl  \  i.  23,  5).  They,  with  the  other  Adityas, 
avenge  sin  and  falsehood  /^cJiayamdndh  rindni  \  chetdro  anritasya  bhureh  \ 
ii.  27,  4 ;  vii.  60,  5) :  the  man  who  neglects  their  worship  is  seized 
with  consumption  (i.  122,  9 :  jano  yo  Mitrd-varundv  abhidhrug  apo  na 
vdm  sunoti  akshnayddhruk  j  svayam  sa  yahhmam  hridaye  ni  dhatta}. 
They  are  besought  along  with  Aditi  to  remove  the  trespasses  of  their 
worshippers  (ii.  27,  14 :  Adite  Mitra  Varunota  mrila  yad  vo  vayam 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA.  69 

chakrima  Teach  chid  dgah] ;  and  along  with  Aryaman  to  give  deliverance 
from  evil  (x.  126,  passim).134 

(5)  Hymn  addressed  to  Mitra  only. 

• 
Mitra  alone  is  celebrated  in  iii.  59.     The  following  are  some  of  the 

verses : 

1.  Mitrojandn  ydtayati  bruvdno  Mitro  dadhdra  prithivlm  uta  dydm  \ 
Mitrah  krishtir  animishd  'bhi  chashte  Mitrdya  havyam  ghritavaj  juhota  \ 
2.  Pra  sa  Mitra  marto  astu  prayasvdn  yas  te  Aditya  sikshati  vratena  \ 
na  hanyate  na  jlyate  tvd-uto  nainam  amho  asnoty  antito  na  durdt  \  4. 
Ay  am  Mitro  namasyah  susevairdjd  sukshatro  ajanishta  vedhdh  \  tasya 
vayam  Mitrasya  sumatau  sydma  \  5.  Mahdn  ddityo  namasd  upasadyo 
ydtayajjano  grinate  susevah  \  7.  Alhi  yo  mahind  divam  Mitro  babhuva 
saprathdh  \  abhi  sravobhih  prithivlm  \  8.  Mitrdya  pancha  yemire  jandh 
abhishti-savase  sa  devdn  visvdn  bibhartti  \ 

"  1.  Mitra,  uttering  his  voice,  calls  men  Jio  activity.135  Mitra  sustains 
the  earth  and  the  sky.  Mitra  with  unwinking  eye  beholds  (all)  crea- 
tures. Offer  to  Mitra  the  oblation  with  butter.  2.  Mitra,  son  of 
Aditi,  may  the  mortal  who  worships  thee  w\th  sacred  rites,  have  food. 
He  who  is  protected  by  thee  is  neither  slain  nor  conqrered.  Calamity 
does  not  reach  him  from  near  or  from  far.  4.  This  Mitra  has  been 
born  adorable,  blessed,  a  king,  strong,  and  wise.  May  we  abide  in  his 
favour.  5.  This  great  Aditya,  who  rouses  men  to  exertion  (see  v.  1), 
who  is  favourable  to  his  worshipper,  is  to  be  approached  with  rever- 
ence. 7.  The  vast  Mitra  who  by  his  greatness  transcends  the  sky,  and 
the  earth  by  his  glory.  8.  The  five  classes  of  men  Have  done  homage  to 

Mitra  the  powerful  helper,  who  sustains  all  the  gods." 

•>  '• 
1  <  * 

(6)  Professor  RotHs  remarks  on  Mitra  and  Varuna.      » 

In  his  paper  on  "The  highest  gods  of  the  Arian  races"  (Journ.  of 
the  German  Oriental  Society,  vi.  p.  70  f.),  Professor  Eoth  has  the  fol- 

134  Like  other  gods,  and  in  particular  Indra,  they  are  represented  as  drinking  the 
soma-juice,  i.  136,  4 ;  i.  137,  1  ff. ;  iv.  41,  3 ;  iv.  4!\  6 ;  v.  64,  7 ;  v.  71,  3 ;  v.  72, 
1-3;  vi.  68,  10. 

135  "With  this  verse  Roth  (Illustrations  of  Nirukta,  x.  22,  p.  140)  compares  R.V. 
v.  82,  9,  where  it  is  said'  "Savitri,  who  causes  all  creatures  to  hear  his  sound,  and 
impels  them."     Comp.  v.  5  of  the  present  hymn  ;  and  vii.  36,  2,  referred  to  hy  Roth 
in  the  passage  about  to  he  quoted. 


70  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY, 

lowing  ingenious  and  interesting  observations  on  Mitra  and  Varuna : 
"  Within  the  circle  of  the  Adityas  there  subsists  the  closest  connection 
between  Mitra  and  Varuna,  who  are  invoked  more  frequently  together 
than  Varuna  is  invoked  singly.  We  find  only  one  hymn  in  which 
Mitra  is  invoked  by  himself  (iii.  59).  The  fact  that  this  dual  invo- 
cation is  preserved  in  the  Zend  Avesta,  in  regard  to  Ahura  and  Mithra, 
though  the  position  of  both  has  become  entirely  altered,  and  Mithra  is 
not  even  reckoned  among  the  Amsh'aspands, — this'  fact  proves  how 
close  the  ancient  connection  of  the  two  was,  when  it  has  been  main- 
tained even  after  the  reason  for  it  had  ceased The  essential 

character  of  the  two  gods,  as  distinguished  from  one  another,  is  nowhere 
distinctly  expressed  in  the  hymns,  and  was  in  fact  originally  one  which 
could  not  be  defined  with  intellectual  precision.  But  the  stage  of 
religious  culture  which  lies  before  us  in  the  Rig-veda,  enables  us  to 
distinguish  this  difference  as  one  already  existing,  viz.,  that  Mitra  is 
the  celestial  light  in  its  manifestation  by  day,  while  Yaruna,  though 
the  lord  of  light  and  of  all  time,  yet  rules  especially  over  the  nightly 
heaven.  A  hymn  of  Yasishtha  (vii.  36,  2)  says  :  '  One  of  you  (Yaruna) 
is  the  lord,  and  unassailable  guide,  and  he  who  is  called  Mitra,  (i.e.  the 
friend)  calls  men  to  activity'  (mo  mm  anyah  padavlr  adaldho  janam  cha 
Mitro  yatati  bruvanah}.  Here  so  much  at  least  is  declared  (and  the 
same  thing  is  expressed  in  nearly  the  same  words  in  other  places),  that 
the  light  of  day,  which  awakens  life,  and  brings  joy  and  activity  into 
the  world,  is  the  narrower  sphere, of  Mitra's  power;  though,  however, 
Yaruna  is  not  thereby  relegated  to  the  night  alone,  for  he  continues  to 
be  the  lord  and  the  'first. 

"  Though  therefore  such  representations  as  are  expressed  in  Indian 
exegesis,  (as  for  instance, 'w'nen  Sayana  says  on  B.V.  vii.  87,  1,  that 
Yaruna'  is  the  setting  sun),  are  far  too  narrow  and  one-sided,  they  still 
contain  some  truth ;  and  we  may  guess  by  what  process  they  are  to  be 
developed.  If  Yaruna  is,  as  his  name  shews,  that  one  among  the  lucid 
Adityas  whose  seat  and  sphere  of  authority  is  the  bright  heaven,  in 
whose  bosom  is  embraced  all  that  lives,  and  therefore  also  the  remotest 
boundary,  beyond  which  human  thought  seeks  nothing  further,  then  is 
he  also  one  who  can  scarcely  be  attained  either  by  the  eye  or  by  the 
imagination.  By  day  the  power  of  vision  cannot  discover  this  remotest 
limit,  the  bright  heaven  presents  to  it  no  resting  place.  But  at  night 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA.  71 

this  veil  of  the  world,  in  which  Varuna  is  enthroned,  appears  to 
approach  nearer,  and  becomes  perceptible,  for  the  eye  finds  a  limit. 
Varuna  is  closer  to  men.  Besides,  the  other  divine  forms  which,  in 
the  clouds,  the  atmosphere,  the  rays  of  light,  filled  the  space  between 
the  earth  and  yonder,  immeasurable  outermost  sphere,  have  disap- 
peared :  no  other  god  now  stands  between  Yaruna  and  the  mortal  who 

gazes  at  him." 

>  •» 

(7)  The  Indian  Mitra  and  the  Zoroastrian  Mithra. 

Whatever  may  be  the  the  success  of  the  attempts  made  to  identify 
any  other  of  the  Indian  and  Iranian  gods  with  one  another,  there  can 
at  least  be  no  doubt,  from  the  correspondence  of  the  two  names,  that 
the  Yedic  Mitra  and  the  Mithra  of  the  Zend  Avesta  were  originally  the 
same  deity.  Accordingly,  the  late  Dr.  F.  Windischmann,  in  his  Dis- 
sertation on  the  Persian  Mithra,136  regards  it  as  established  that  this 
god  was  known,  and  common,, to  the  old  Arian  race  before  the  separa- 
tion of  its  Iranian  from  its  Indian  branch,  though  the  conception  of 
his  character  was  subsequently  modified  by  Zoroastrian  ideas.  That 
Mithra  was  worshipped  in  Persia  in  and  previous  to  the  age  of  Hero- 
dotus, «s  proved,  as  Windischmann  remarks,  by  the  common  use  of 
such  names  as  Mitradates  and  Mitrobates.  Herodotus  himself  (i.  131) 
speaks  of  Mitra,  not  as  a  god,  but  as  a  goddess  ('ETrj^e^oeijKotri  5e  KO.I  ry 

Ovpaviri  Bvftv,  irapd  re  "Affervpftw  juafloires  Kal  'Apa/Zluv  KaAeown  5e  'A<r<ri5pioi 
rfyv  'AtppoSirriv  MvAiTTO,  Apafitoi  8e  "A\irrA,  Heptrai  Sf  Mirpav.  See  Ptawlinson's 

note,  in  loco,  in  his  translation  of  Herodotus).  But  Xenophon  (Cyrop. 
viii.  5,  53j  (Ec.  iv.  24),  and  Plutarch  (Artax.  4,  and  Alexand.  30) 
describes  the  Persians  as  swearing  by  the,, god  Mitra.  And  Plutarch, 
in  his  treatise  on'lsis  and  Osiris,  chap.  xlvi.  tells  us  that  Zoroasty 
conceived  of  Mithra  as  standing  intermediate  between  the  deities 
Oromazes,  the  representative  of  light,  and  Areimanius,  the  representa- 
tive of  darkness  and  ignorance.137  It  is  unnecessary  to  say  anything 
further  here  of  the  Persian  Mithra,  the  eventual  introduction  of  whose 
worship  into  the  West  is  matter  of  history." 

186  Mithra,  ein  Beitrag  zur  Mythengeschichte  des  Orients,  in  the  Abhandlungen 
fur  die  Kunde  des  Morgenlandes,  Leipzig,  1857.     See  pp.  54  ff. 
131  Ibid,  p.  56.     This  passage  is  also  quoted  in  the  2nd  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  471. 


72  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 

(8)  Ts  there  any  historical  connection  between  Varuna  and  Ahura-Mazda  ? 

Varuna  also,  in  the  opinion  of  certain  writers,  is  connected,  at  least 
indirectly,  with  the  Ahura  Mazda  of  the  old  Persian  mythology  ;  and 
in  support  of  this  it  may  be  alleged,  —  (l).that  the  name  of  Asura,  the 
divine  being,  is  frequently  applied  to  Varuna,  as  an  epithet  ;  (2)  that 
the  class  of  Indian  gods  called  Adityas,  of  whom  Varuna'  is  the  most 
distinguished,  bears  a  certain  analogy  to  the  Amshasp'ands  of  the  Zend 
mythology,  of  whom  Ahura  Mazda  is  the  highest;  and  (3)  that  a  close 
connection  exists  between  Varuna  and  Mitra,  just  as,  according  to  Pro- 
fessor Eoth  (see  above),  Ahura  and  Mithra  are  frequently  associated  in 
the  Zendavesta,  though  the  position  of  the  two  has  otherwise  become 
altered,  and  Mithra  is  not  even  reckoned  among  the  Amshaspands. 
Other  scholars,  however,  think  that  there  is  not  sufficient  proof  of 
Varuna  and  Ahura  Mazda  being  connected  with  one  another.  ' 

I  shall  state  the  opinion  qf  Professor  Roth  in  regard  to  the  connec- 
tion of  Varuna  with  Ahura  Mazda  more  fully  in  the  next  Section, 
where  reference  will  be  made  to  the  same  writer's  views  regarding  the 
relation  of  Indra  to  Varuna. 

c> 
(9)  Varuna  connected  with  the  element  of  water  even  in  the  Rig-veda. 

Though  Varuna  is  not  generally  regarded  in  the  Rig-veda  as  the 
god  of  the  ocean,  he  is  yet  in  the  following  passages  connected  with 
the  element  of  water,  both  in  the  'atmosphere  and  on  the  earth,  in  such 
a  way  as  may  have  led  to  the  conception  of  his  character  and  functions 
which  is  fully  established  in  the  later  mythology. 

i.  161,  14.  Diva  ydnti  Maruto  bhumyd  Agnir  ay  am  Vdto  antarik- 
shena  yati  \  adbhir  vdti*Varunah  samudrair  yushmdn  ichhantah  savasah 
napdtah  \  "  Desiring  you,  ye  sons  of  strength,  the  Maruts  proceed 
through  the  sky,  Agni  along  the  earth,  this  Vata  (wind)  through  the 
atmosphere,  and  Varuna  along  the  waters,  the  ocean  "  (adlhih  samu- 


vii.  49,  2.  Yah  dpo  divyj.li  uta  vd  sravanti  khanitrimdh  uta  vd  ydh 
svayamjdh  \  samudrdrthdh  ydh  suchayah  pdvakds  tdh  dpo  devlr  iha 
mum  avantu  \  3.  Ydsdm  rdjd  Varuno  yati  madhye  satydnrite  avapasyan 

138  See  Bollensen  in  Or.  and  Occid.  2,  467. 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA.  73 

jandndm  \  madhuschutah  suchayah — |  4.  Tdsu  raja  Varuno  ydsu  Somo 
visve  devdh  yam  urjam  madanti  \  Vaisvdnaro  yusu  Agnih  pravishtas  tdh 
dpah — |139  "May  the  waters  which  are  celestial,  and  those  which  flow, 
those  for  which  channels  are  dug,  and  those  which  are  self-produced, 
those  which  are  proceeding  to  the  ocean  and  are  bright  and  purifying, 
preserve  me !  3.  May  those  (waters)  in  the  midst  of  which  king  Varuna 
goes,  beholding  the  truth  and  falsehood  of  men,  which  drop  sweetness 
and  are  bright  and  purifying,  preserve  me  !  4.  May  those  waters  in 
which  Varuna,  Soma,  and  all  the  gods  are  exhilarated  by  food,  into 
which  Agni  Vaisvauara  has  entered,"  etc.  etc. 

vii.  64,  2.  A  rdjdnd  mahah  ritasya  gopd  sindhupati  kshatriyd  ydtam 
arvdk  |  ildm  no  Mitrdvarund  uta  vrishtim  ava  divah  invatam  jlraddnu  |uo 
"  Mitra  and  Varuna,  ye  two  kings,  protectors  of  the  great  ceremonial, 
strong  lords  of  the  sea  (or  of  rivers)  come  hither ;  send  us  food  and  rain 
from  the  sky,"  etc. 

In  the  second  of  these  texts,  vii.  49,  3,  the  waters,  in  the  midst  of 
which  Yaruna  is  said  to  move,  "beholding  the  truth  and  falsehood  of 
men,"  seem  to  b#  rather  aerial  than  oceanic,  as  the  former,  from  their 
position  above  the  earth,  would  appear  to  affxjrd  to  the  god  (when  an- 
thropomorphically  regarded)  a  more  convenient  post  »f  observation 
than  the  latter.  And  in  vii.  64,  2,  the  epithet  sindhupati,  "lords  of 
the  sea,"  (or  "of  rivers,"  nadydh  pdlayitdrau,  Sayana),  is  applied  not 
only  to  Yaruna  but  to  Mitra  also,  who  is  not,  that  I  am  aware  of,  ever 
connected  with  the  sea,  even  in  later  ^mythology.  If  we  add  to  this, 
that  these  two  gods  are  here  solicited  to  send  food  and  rain  from  the 
sky,  it  may  result  that  they  are  called  sindhupati,  as  supplying  the 
aerial  water?  by  which  terrestrial  streams  are  filled.  t)n  the  other 
hand  the  2nd  verse, of  the  hymn  just  quoted,  *ii.  49,  2,  with  which 
however  Yaruna  is  not  directly  connected,  must  be  understood  (as 
Professor  Miiller  remarks,  Transl.  of  R.V.  i.  p.  46)  of  terrestrial  waters. 
Though,  as  we  have  seen  above,  Sayana  does  not  generally  style 
Yaruna  the  god  of  the  sea,  but,  in  conformity  with  older  conceptions' 
the  deity  who  presides  over  the  night,  he  doeg,  in  his  explanation  of 

139  See  Prof.  Muller's  remarks  on  the  word  samudra,  Trans,  of  R.V.  i.  44  ff. 
where  this  verse  is  quoted  and  translated. 

uo  Taitt.  S.  vi.  4,  3,  3,  says  :  Mitravarunau  vai  apatn  netarau  \  "  Mitra  and 
Varuna  are  the  leaders  of  the  waters." 


74  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY. 

K.V.  i.  161,  14,  and  viii.  58,  12,  call  him  the  jaldbhimanl  devah,  "the 
deity  presiding  over  the  waters." 

In  viii.  41,  8,  Varuna  appears  to  be  called  a  hidden  ocean  (samudro 
a/picky  all). 

viii.  58,  12.  Sudevo  asi  Varuna  yasya  te  septa  sindhavah  \  anuhha- 
ranti  kdkudam  sunny  am  sushirdm  iva  \  "Thou  art  a  glorious  god, 
Varuna,  into  whose  jaws  the  seven  rivers  flow,  as  into  a  surging 
abyss."  U1 

Varuna  is  also  connected  with  the  sea  or  with  the  rivers,  which 
he  is  said  to  inhabit,  as  soma  (the  plant)  does  the  woods,  in  ix.  90,  2 
(vand  vasdno  Varuno  na  sindhuri] ;  and  in  Vaj.  Sanh.  x.  7,  it  is  said 
that  "Varuna,  the  child  of  the  waters,  made  his  abode  within  the 
most  motherly  waters  as  in  his  home  "  (Pastydsu  chakre  Varunah  sad- 
hastham  apdm  sisur  matritamdsu  antah}.  See  also  the  third  verse  of 
the  sixteenth  hymn  of  the  A.V.  quoted  above. 

In  the  following  texts  of  the  Atharva-veda,  Varuna  is  connected 
with  the  waters : 

A.V.  iii.  3,  3.  Adbhyas  tvd  raja  Varuno  hvayatu  somas  tvd  hvayatu 
parvatebhyah  \  "  May  kipg  Varuna  call  thee  from  the  waters,  and  Soma 
from  the  mour tains." 

iv.  15,  12.  Apo  nishinchann  asurah  pita  nah  svasantu  garg'ardh  apdm 
Varuna  \  "Our  divine  father  shedding  the  waters — may  the  streams 
of  water  breathe,  o  Varuna." 

v.  24,  4.  Varuno  'pdm  adhipfitih  \  5.  Mitrdvarunau  vrishtydh  adhi- 
patl  |  "Varuna  the  lord  of  the  waters."  5.  "Mitra  and  Varuna  the 
lords  of  rain." 

vii.  83.  1.  Apsu  te  rdjan  Varuna  griho  hiranyayo  mitah  \  "Thy 
golden  house,  o  Varirna,  is  in  the  waters."142  r 

141  See  Eoth's  Illustrations  of  Nirukta,  pp.  70  f. 

142  The  Taitt.  S.  v.  5,  4,  1,  says :    apo   Varunasya  patnayah   asan  |  to,  Agnir 
abhyadhyayat  \  tah    samabhavat  \  tasya  retah  parapatat  \  tad  iyam  abhavat  \  yad 
dvitlyam  parapatat  tad  asav  abhavat  \  iyam  vai  virad  asau  svarat  \  "  The  waters  are 
the  wives  of  Varuna.  Agni  regarded  them  with  desire.  He  consorted  with  them.  His 
seed  fell.     It  became  this  Dearth).     That  which  fell  the  second  time  became  that 
(sky).     This  (earth)  is  viraj,  that  (sky)  is  svaraj."     The  Varaha  Purana,  sect.  121 
(Aufrecht,  Catal.  p.  59£)  speaks  of  Varuna  being  universally  known  as  the  guardian 
of  the  ocean  (sane  lokah  hi  jananti  Varunah  pati  sayaram).    The  Skanda  Purana, 
sect.  12  (Aufrecht,  Cat.  p.  69«),  relates  that  Varuna  was  formerly  the  son  of  Eardama, 
and  bore  the  name  of  S'uchishmat ;   and  that  he  is  said  to  have  obtained  the 
sovereignty  of  the  sea  by  worshipping  S'iva. 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA.  75 

(10)  Explanations  ly  Professors  Roth  and  Westergaard  of  the  process  by 

which  Varuna  came  to  le  regarded  as  the  regent  of  the  sea. 

* 

Professor  Roth  gives  (in  a  paper  read  in  October,  1851,  and  published 
in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  vi.  73)  the  following 
*  statement  of  jthe  process  by  which  he  conceives  that  Varuna  came  in 
later  times  to  be  regarded  as  the  god  of  the  sea. 

"The  hymns  of  the  Veda  give  already  indications  of  this  develop- 
ment, since  Varuna  is  in  one  place  brought  into  the  same  connection 
with  the  waves  of  the  sea,  as  Storm  and  Wind  are  with  the  atmosphere 
and  the  heaven,  and  as  Agni  is  with  the  earth  (i.  161,  14,  translated 
above),  and  it  is  elsewhere  said  of  him  that  he  sinks  into  the  sea  (vii. 
87,  6),  while  in  another  passage  the  rivers  are  described  as  streaming 
towards  him  (viii.  58,  12).  When,  on  the  one  hand,  the  conception  of 
Varuna  as  the  all-embracing  heaven  had  been  established,  and,  on  the 
other  hand,  the  observation  of  the  rivers  floVing  towards  the  ends  of 
the  earth  and  to  the  sea  had  led  to  the  conjecture  that  there  existed 
an]ocean  enclosing  the  earth  in  its  bosom,  then  the  way  was  thoroughly 
prepared  for  connecting  Varuna  with  the  ocean.  Another  side  of  the 
affinity  between  the  celestial  and  oceanic  Varuna  may  Be  expressed  in 
the  words  of  Alexander  von  Humboldt,  which  perfectly  coincide  with 
the  ancient  Indian  view  :  '  The  two  envelopments  of  the  solid  surface 
of  our  planet,  viz.,  the  aqueous  and  the  atmospheric,  offer  many 
analogies  to  each  other,  in  their  mobility,  in  the  phenomena  of  their 
temperature,  and  in  the  fact  that  their  parts  admit  of  being  displaced  : 
the  depth  both  of  the  ocean  and  of  the  atmosphere  is  unknown  to  us.' " 

On  the  same  subject  Professor  Westergaard  remarks  (in  a  paper 
originally  published  in  1852,  and  translated  by  Professor  Spiegel  from 
the  Danish,  and  published  in  Weber's  Indische  Studien,  vol.*  iii.) : 
"  The  Zend  word  Varena  corresponds  also  etymologically,  on  the  one 
hand,  to  the  Greek  ovpavos,  and,  on  the  other,  to  the  Indian  Varuna, 
a  name  which  in  the  Vedas  is  assigned  to  the  god  who  reigns  in  the 
furthest  regions  df  the  heaven,  where  air  and  sea  are,  as  it  were, 
blended ;  on  which  account  he  has,  in  the  later  Indian  mythology, 
become  god  of  the  sea,  whilst  in  the  Vedas  he  appears  first  as  the 
mystic  lord  of  the  evening  and  the  night."  And  he  adds:  "Possibly 
the  Iranian  Varena,  in  opposition  to  Yima's  home  on  the  remotest 


76  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 

mountains  of  the  east,  denotes,  originally,  the  distant  western  region 
of  the  heaven  and  the  air,  where,  every  evening,  the  sun  and  light 
conceal  themselves,  and  so  much  the  rather  as  the  epithet  Varenya, 
derived  from  Varena,  i,s  in  the  Zenda-vesta  applied  only  to  the  evil 
spirits  of  darkness  "  (p.  415  f.). 

(11)  Correspondence  of  Yaruni  with  the  Greek  Ovpavos. 

"We  have  already  seen  that  Varuna  corresponds  in  name  to  the 
Ovpavos  of  the  Greeks.  "Uranos,"  as  Professor  Miiller  observes,143 
"  in  the  language  of  Hesiod,  is  used  as  a  name  for  the  sky  ;  he  is  made 
or  born  that  he  should  '  be  a  firm  place  for  the  blessed  gods.'  144  It  is 
said  twice  that  Uranos  covers  everything  (v.  127),  and  that  when  he 
brings  the  night,  he  is  stretched  out  everywhere,  embracing  the  earth.148 
This  sounds  almost  as  if  the  Greek  mythe  had  still  preserved  a  recol- 
lection of  the  etymological  power  of  Uranos.  For  Uranos  is  in  the 
Sanskrit  Varuna,  and  is  derived  from  a  root,  Yar,  to  cover ;  Varuna 
being  in  the  Veda  also  a  name  of  the  firmament,  but  especially  con- 
nected with  the  night,  and  opposed  to  Mitra,  the  day." 

The  parallel  between  the  Greek  Uranos  and  the  Indian  Vptuna  does 
not,  as  we  have  already  seen,  hold  in  all  points.  There  is  not  in  the 
Vedic  mythology  any  special  relation  between  Varuna  and  Prithivi,  the 
Earth,  as  husband  and  wife,  as  there  is  between  Uranos  and  Gaia  in  the 
theogony  of  Hesiod ;  nor  is  Varuna  represented  in  the  Veda,  as  Uranos 
is  by  the  Greek  poet,  as  the  progenitor  of  Dyaus  (Zeus),  except  in  the 
general  way  ^u  which  he  is  said  to  have  formed  and  to  preserve  heaven 

and  earth.  ( 

f  (  < 

143  Oxford  Essays  for  1856,  p.  41 ;  Chips,  ii.  65. 

144  Hesiod  Theog.  126  :— 

Tata  Se  TOJ  irpSirov  fjifv  ZyelvaTO  foov  eavrfi 
Ovpa.vbv  affTfpotvd',  Iva.  piv  irtp\  iravra.  KaXvirroi, 
yO^>p'  e'ir)  fjLa.Ka.pfo'O'i  6eo7s  eSos  acn^oAey  dei. 

Compare  Ait.  Br.  iv.  27,  quoted  above. 

145  Ibid,  v.  176  :—  c 

'HA.0e  8e  NI$/CT'  ^iriiytav  fJ-tyas  Ovpav6s,  afj.rf>\  Sf  Taiy 
'\^f(pcav  <t>t\6Tr)Tos  txiffjivro  Kai  p  erafvffOr) 


AS  REPRESENTED  IN  THE  RIG-VEDA.  76a 


(12)   Varuna,  as  represented  in  the  hymns, — a  metrical  sketch. 

Lo,  reared  of  old  by  hands  divine. 

High  towers  in  heaven  a  palace  fair  ; 

Its  roof  a  thousand  columns  bear ; 
'A  thousand  portals  round  it  shine. 

"Within,  enthroned  in  godlike  state, 

Sits  Varuna  in  golden  sheen  ; 

To  work  his  will,  with  reverent  mien, 
His  angel  hosts  around  him  wait. 

When  I  beheld  this  vision  bright, 

I  deemed  the  god  was  clad  in  flame, — 
Such  radiance  from  his  presence  came, 

And  overpowered  my  aching  sight. 

Each  morn,  when  TJshas  starts  from  sleep, 

He  mounts  his  car,  which  gleams  with  gold  : 
All  worlds  before  him  lie  unrolled,        t 

As  o'er  the  sky  his  coursers  sweep. 

He,  righteous  lord,  the  sceptre  wields, 
Supreme,  of  universal  sway, 
His  law  both  men  and  gods  obey  ; 

To  his  degree  the  haughtiest  yields. 

• 
*He  spread  the  earth  and  watery  ^waste  ; 

He  beared  the  sky ;  he  bade  the  sun 

His  shining  circuit  daily  run  ; 
In  him  the  worlds  are  all  embraced. 

By  his  decree  the  radiant  moon 

Moves  through  the  nightly  sky,  serene, 
And  planets  sparkle  round  their  queen ; — * 

But  whither  have  they  fled  at  noon  ? 

*  In  Indian  mythology  the  moon  is  a  god,  not  a  goddess ;  but  I  have  in  this  line 
adhered  to  customary  English  poetical  phraseology. 


76J 


The  rivers  flow  at  his  behest, 

And  yet — admire  his  wondrous  skill — 
The  ocean-bed  they  cannot  fill, 

Although  the£r  currents  never  rest. 

The  path  of  ships  across  the  sea, 

The  soaring  eagle's  flight,  he  knows, f 
The  course  of  every  wind  that  blows, 

And  all  that  was  or  is  to  be. 

Descending,  ceaseless,  from  the  skies, 
His  angels  glide  this  world  around  ; 
As  far  as  earth's  remotest  bound, 

All-scanning,  range  their  thousand  eyes. 

This  mighty  lord  who  rules  on  high, 

Though  closely  veiled  from  mortal  gaze, 
All  men's  most  secret  acts  surveys  ; 

He,  ever  far,tis  ever  nigh, 
o 

Two  think  they  are  not  overheard 
Who  sit  and  plot,  as  if  alone ; 
Their  fancied  secrets  all  are  known, 

Unseen,  the  god  is  there,  a  third. 

Whoe'er  should  think  his  way  to  wing, 
r    And  lurk,  unknown,  beyond  the  sky, 

Yet  couldrnot  there  elude  the  eye 
And  grasp  of  Varuna,  the  King. 

For  all  within  the  vast  expanse 

Of  air  that  heaven  and  earth  divides, 
Whate'er  above  the  heaven  abides, 

Lies  open  t«/  his  piercing  glance. 


t  Compare  Proverbs,  xxx.  18  :"  There  be  three  things  which  are  too  wonder{|il 
for  me  ;  yea,  four  which  I  know  not :  19.  The  way  of  an  eagle  in  the  air  ;  the  way 
of  a  serpent  upon  a  rock ;  the  way  of  a  ship  in  the  midst  of  the  sea ;  and  the  way  of 
a  man  with  a  maid." 


AS  REPRESENTED  IN  THE  RIG-VEDA. 

The  ceaseless  winkings  all  he  sees, 
And  counts,  of  every  mortal's  eyes : 
In  vain  to  wink  a  creature  tries, 

Unless  the  god  the  power  decrees! 

To  thoughtful  men  who  truth  discern, 
And  deeply  things  divine  explore, 
The  god  reveals  his  hidden  lore  ; 

But  fools  his  secrets  may  not  learn. 

He  marks  the  good  and  ill  within 

The  hearts  of  men — the  false  and  true 
Discerns  with  never-erring  view  : 

He  hates  deceit,  chastises  sin. 

* 

His  viewless  bonds,  than  cords  and  gyves 
More  hard  to  burst,  the  wicked  bind ; 
In  vain,  within  their  folds  confined,      » 
'*      To  cast  them  off"  the  sinner  strives. 

And  yet  the  god  will  not  refuse 

His  grace  to  one  who 'inly  moans, 
When  fetter-bound,  his  errors  owns, 

And  for  forgiveness  meekly  sues.  . 

'   » 

But  where  is,  lord,  thy  friendship  now  ? 

Thine  ancient  kindness,  o,  restore  ; 

May  we,  so  dear  to  thee  of  yore, 
No  longer  dread  thy  frowning  brow. 

Thine  ire  we  did  not  madly  brave, 

Nor  break  thy  laws  in  wanton  mood  ; 
We  fell,  by  wrath,  dice,  wine,  subdued : 

Forgive  us,  gracious  lord,  and  save. 


THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY. 

Absolve  us  from  the  guilt,  we  pray, 
Of  all  the  sins  our  fathers  wrought,  J 
And  sins  which  we  commit  by  thought,  § 

And  speech,  and  act,  from  day  to  day. 

From  dire  disease  preserve  us  free,  < 

Nor  doom  us  to  the  house  of  clay 
Before  our  shrivelling  frames  decay  : 

A  good  old  age  yet  let  us  see. 

In  vain  shall  hostile  shafts  assail 

The  man  thy  shielding  arm  defends ; 
Secure,  no  wrong  he  apprehends, 

Safe,  as  if  cased  in  iron  mail. 

As  mother  birds  their  pinions  spread 

To  guard  from  harm, their  cowering  brood, 
Do  thou,  o  lord,  most  great  and  good, 

Preserve  from,  all  the  ills  we  dread. 

i 

See  Exodus,  xx.  5,  Deuteronomy,  v.  9,  and  Ezekiel,  xviii.  1  ff. 
Rig-veda,  x.  37,  12. 


AS  REPRESENTED  IN  THE  RIG-VEDA.  77 


SECTION  Y. 

INDRA.146 

According  to  the  Greek  geographer  Strabo,  the  Indians,  as  known  to 
him  by  the  report  of  other  writers,  "worshipped  Jupiter  Pluvius,  the 
river  Ganges,  and  the  gods  of  country.147  This  Jupiter  Pluvius  was, 
no  doubt,  Indra.  Although  at  the  period  to  which  Strabo's  information 
refers,  this  god,  in  all  probabilty,  no  longer  occupied  the  same  promi- 
nent position  as  of  old ;  he  was,  as  Professor  Roth  remarks,148  the 
favourite  national  deity  of  the  Aryan  Indians  in  the  Vedic  age.  More 
hymns  are  dedicated  to  his  honour  than  to  the  praise  of  any  other 
divinity.  , 

»          (1)  His  origin  and  parents ;  Ids  wife. 

Although,  however,  his  greatness  is  celebrated  in  the  most  mag- 
nificent language,  he  is  not  regarded  as  an  uncreated  being.  As  I  have 
already  noticed,  he  is  distinctly  spoken  pf  in  various  passages  as  being 
born,  and  as  having  a  father  and  a  mother. 

Thus  it  is  said  of  him  : 

iii.  48,  2.  Yaj  jdyathds  tad  ahar  asya  kdme  amsoh  piyusham  apibo 
girishthdm  \  tarn  te  mutd  pari  yoshd  janitrl  nihhahpitur  dame  dsinchad 
agre  \  3.  Upasthdya  mdtaram  annam  aitta  tigmam  apasyad  abhi  Miriam 
udhah  | 

"  On  the  day  that  thou  wast  born,  thou  didst,  from  love  of  it,  drink 
the  mountain-grown,  juice  of  the  soma-plant.  Of  old,  the  youthful 

146  Strabo,  xv.  1,  69,  p.  718,  quoted  by  Lassen,  Indisctfe  Alterthumskunde,  ii.  698  : 
Aileron  Se   K.al  ravra  irapa  rSiv  avyypcKpfcav,    $TI  ffefiovrcu  [i.fv  rbi>  opflpiov  Aia  ol 
'IvSol,  Kal  riv  Ta.yyT)v  iroTa/j.bv,  Kal  TOVS  trfXftpbm  Saifjiovas. 

147  In  my  account  of  Varuna  there  is  little  of  importance  that  had  not  been  pre- 
viously said  by  Professor  Roth;  but  in  this  description  of  Indra  there  is  a  larger 
collection  of  particulars  than  I  have  noticed  to  have  been  brought  together  elsewhere. 

118  In  his  Lexicon,  s.v.  Indra. 


78  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 

mother  who  bore  thee,  satiated  thee  with  it  in  the  house  of  thy  mighty 
father.  3.  Approaching  his  mother,  he  desired  sustenance  ;  he  beheld 
the  sharp-flavoured  soma  on  her  breast." 

Again  in  iv.  17,  4.  Suvlras  tejanitd  manyata  Dyaur  Indrasya  karttd 
svapastamo  'that  \  yah  Imjajdna  svaryam  suvajram  anapachyutam  sadaso 
na  bhuma  |  ....  17.  Eiyat  svid  Indro  adhi  eti  mdtuh  kiyat  pitur 
janitur  yo  jajdna  \  "Thy  father  was,  as  the  Sky  thought,  a  most  stal- 
wart being  ;  the  maker  of  Indra,  he  who  produced  the  celestial 
thunderer,  immovable  as  the  earth, — he  was  a  most  skilful  workman. 
17.  How  much  does  Indra  regard  his  mother,  how  much  the  father 
who  begat  him  ?  "  U9 

iv.  18,  1.  Ay  am  panthdh  anumttah  purdno  yato  devdh  udajdyanta 
visve  |  atas  chid  d  janishlshta  pravriddho  md  mdtaram  amuyd  pattave 
Jcah  |  5.  A.vadyam  iva  manyamdnd  guhd  'kar  Indram  mdtd  vlryena 
nyrisJitam  \  atha  ud  asthdt  svayam  at/cam  vasdnah  d  rodasl  aprinaj 
jdyamdnah  \  10.  Grishtih  sasuva  sthaviram  tavdgdm  anddhrishyam 
vrishabham  tumram  Indram  \  arllham  vatsam  cJiarathdya  mdtd  svayam 
gdtum  tanve  ichhamdnam  \  11.  Uta  mdtd  maJiisJiam  anvanenad  ami  tvd 
jahati  putra  \levdh  \  athdbravld  vrittram  Indro  hanishyan  sakhe  Vishno 
vitardm  vi  Jcramasva  \  12.  Kas  te  mdtaram  vidhavdm  achakrat  sayum  kas 
tvdm  ajiffhamsat  cJiarantam  \  Teas  te  devo  adhi  mdrdlke  dsid  yat  pitaram 
prdkshindh  pddagrihya  \ 

"  This  has  been  traversed  as,  the  ancient  path,  through  which  all  the 
gods  were  born ;  through  this  let  the  grown  (embryo)  be  produced ; 
let  him  not  vainly  cause  his  mother  to  perish.150  5.  Regarding  it  (his 
birth)  as  a  fault,  the  mother  concealed  Indra,  who  was  fall  of  vigour. 
Then  he  himself  arose,  'clothed  with  a  robe,  and  filled  both  worlds  as 
eoon'as  he  was  born.  10.  His  mother,  (like)  a  cow,  bore  Indra,  an  un- 
licked  calf,  strong,  robust,  unassailable,  vigorous,  and  lusty,  in  order 

149  Professor  Miiller,  Lectures  ii.  430,  translates  the  first  of  these  verses  thus : 
Dyu,  thy  parent,  was  reputed  strong  ;  the  maker  of  Indra  was  mighty  in  his  works ; 
lie  (who)  begat  the  heavenly  Indra,  armed  with  the  thunderbolt,  who  is  immovable  as 
the  earth,  from  his  seat : "  'and  the  12th  verse  as  follows  :  "  Indra  '  somewhat  excels 
his  mother  and  the  father  who  begat  him.'  "     Of  the  Maruts  also  it  is  said  v.  60,  5, 
that  Rudra,  their  father,  was  young  and  an  excellent  workman  (yuva  pita  svapah 
Eudrah  esham.  The  next  hymn  of  the  same  Mandala,  iv.  18,  makes  repeated  reference 
to  Indra's  birth  and  parents. 

150  For  the  Commentator's  explanation  of  this  obscure  hymn  see  Professor  "Wilson's 
Translation,  note  1. 

• 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA.  79 

that  he  might  range  abroad,  and  desiring  full  scope  for  himself.  11. 
And  his  mother  affectionately  regarded  her  mighty  son,  saying,  '  those 
gods  forsake  thee,  my  son.'  Then  said  Indra,  preparing  to  slay  Vrittra, 
*  Friend  Vishnu,  stride  boldly  forward.'  12.  "Who  made  thy  mother  a 
•widow  ?  Who  sought  to  slay  thee  lying  or  moving?  "What  god  stood 
by  thee  in  the  fray  when  thou  didst  crush  thy  father,  seizing  him  by 
the  foot?" 

vii.  20,  5.  VrisJid  jajdna  vrishanam  randya  tarn  u  chin  ndrl  naryam 
sasuva  |  "A  vigorous  (god)  begot  him,  a  vigorous  (son)  for  the  battle  : 
a  heroic  female  (nari)  brought  him  forth,  a  heroic  (son),"  etc. 
Again,  vii.  98,  3.  Jajndna  h  somam  sahase  papdtha  pra  te  mdtd 
mahimdnam  uvdcha  \  "  "When  born,  thou  didst  drink  the  soma- 
juice  to  (gain)  strength  :  thy  mother  declared  thy  greatness." 
x.  73,  1.  JanishtJidli  ugrah  sahase  turdya  mandrah  ojishtho  lahuld- 
bhimdnah  \  avardhann  Indram  Marutas  chid  attra  mdtd  yad  virafn 
dadhanad  dhanishthd  \  "Thou  wast^born  fierce  to  exercise  impetuous 
strength ;  exulting,  fiery,  full  of  confidence.  The  Haruts  here  aug- 
mented Indra  when  his  opulent  mother  bought  forth  the  hero." 
x.  120,  1.  Tad  id  dsa  Ihuvaneshu  jyeshtham  yato  jajnnugras  tvesha- 
nrimnah  |  "  That  was  the  highest  (being)  in  the  world  from  which  this 
fierce  and  impetuous  (god)  was  born,"  etc.  x.  134,  1.  Ubhe  yad  Indra 
rodasi  dpaprdtha  ushdh  iva  \  mahdntam  tva  mahlndm  samrdjam  charsha- 
nlndm  devl  janitrl  ajljanad  bhadrd  japitrl  ajljanat  \  "  When  thou, 
Indra,  didst  fill  the  two  worlds  like  the  .Dawn,  a  divine  mother 
bore  thee,  a  gracious  mother  bore  thee,  the  great  monarch  of  the 
great  people v  (the  gods?).  In  x.  101,  12,  as  we  have 'already  seen, 
he  is  called  the  son,  of  Nishtigri.  This  w'ord^  as  I  have  already 
noticed,  p.  13,  note  9,  is  treated  by  the  commentator  as  a  synoijjym  of 
Aditi ;  but  though  Indra  is  always  regarded  as  an  Aclitya  in  the  later 
mythology,  and  is  even  addressed  in  that  character,  along  with  Varuna, 
in  vii.  85,  4  (yah  ddityd  savasd  vain  namasvdn],  he  is  not  commonly 
described  as  such  in  other  parts  of  the  Big-veda.151 

In  the  A.V.  iii.  10,  12,  we  read  :  Ekdshtakd  tapasd  tapyamdna  jajdna 
garlham  mahimdnam  Indram  \  tena  devdh  ashahanta  satrun  hantd  dasyu- 
ndm  alhavat  S'achipatih  \  "Ekashtaka,  practising  austere-fervour,  bore 

151  In  iv.  26,  1,  he  appears  to  be  identified  with  Manu  and  Surya,  and  in  viii.  82, 
1,  4,  and  x.  89,  2,  with  Surya.  In  ii.  30,  1,  he  receives  the  epithtt  of  Savitri. 


80  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 

as  a  child  the  glorious   Tndra.     By  him  the   gods  conquered  their 
enemies ;  the  lord  of  S'achi  (or  of  might)  became  the  slayer  of  the 

Dasvus." 

<j 

In  the  next  verse  Ekashtaka  is  called  the  mother  of  Soma,  as  well  as 
of  Indra,  and  the  daughter  of  Prajapati.  In  A.V.  vi.  38,  the  mother  of , 
Indra.  is  invoked,  hut  her  name  is  not  given.  According  to  the  M.Bh. 
Adip.  3136,  Indra  is  one  of  the  sons'  of  Kasyapa  a"nd  Dakshayam,  i.e. 
the  daughter  of  Daksha,  or  Aditi.  See  also  viii.  45,  4,  5 ;  viii.  66,  1, 
2,  which  will  be  quoted  further  on.  In  viii.  58,  4,  he  is  called  the 
son  of  truth  (sunum  satyasya). 

In  another  place  (iii.  49,  1)  he  is  said  to  have  been  produced  by  the 
gods,  as  a  destroyer  of  enemies  (ghanam  vritranam  janayanta  devdh  \ 
See  also  ii.  13,  5,  and  iii.  51,  8). 

In  the  Purusha  Sukta  (E.Y.  x.  90,  1 3)  Indra  is  said  to  have  sprung, 
along  with  Agni,  from  (the  mouth  of  Purusha  (mukh&d  Indras  cha 
Agnis  cJia] ;  and  he  is  one  of  several  gods  said,  in  ix.  96,  5  (Somah  .  .  . 
janitd  Indrasya\  to  have  been  generated  by  Soma.  In  one  of  the 
latest  hymns  (x.  167,  1)  he  is  declared  to  have  conquered  heaven  by 

austerity  (tvatir,  tapah  paritapya  ajayah  svah}.152 

t 

162  In  one  of  the  short  stories  about  the  gods,  of  which  it  and  the  other  Brahmanas 
are  full,  the  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  1,  6,  14,  says  of  Indra :  Tah  vai  etah  Prajapater  adhi 
devatah  asrijyanta  Agnir  Indrah  Somah  Parameshthl  prajapatyah  \  15.  Tah  saha- 
trayusho  jajnire  \  tah  yatha  nadyai  param  parapasyed  evaih  svasya  ayushah  param 
parachakhyuh  \  14.  "These  gods  were  created  from  Prajapati,  viz.  Agni,  Indra, 
Soroa,  and  Parameshthin  Prajapatya.  15.  These  were  born  with  a  life  of  a  thousand 
(years).  Just  as  a  man  can  look  across  to  the  other  bank  of  a  river,  they  looked 
across  to  the  end  of  their  life."  Again  the  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  2,  3,  3,  pays  of  Indra : 
Prajapatir  devasuran  asrijata(  \  sa  Indram  api  na  asrijata  \  tain  devah  abrwann 
" Indram  no  janaya"  flti\  so  'bravld  "yatha  'ham  yhshmams  tapasa  'srikshi 
evam  Indram  janayadhvam "  iti  \  te  tapo  'tapyanta  \  te  atmann  Indram  apa* 
syan  \  tarn  abruvan  "jayasva"  iti  \  so  'bravlt  "kirn  bhagadheyam  abhi  janish- 
ye"  iti  \  "  ritun  samvatsaran  prajah  pasun  iman  lokan  "  ity  abruvan  \  ityadi  \ 
"  Prajapati  created  gods  and  Asuras,  but  he  did  not  also  create  Indra.  The 
gods  said  to  him :  '  Create  Indra  for  us.'  He  replied :  '  As  I  have  created 
you  through  austere-fervour  (tapas),  so  do  you  generate  Indra.'  They  practised 
austere-fervour.  They  saw"  Indra  within  themselves.  They  said  to  him,  'Be 
born.'  He  said,  '  To  what  lot  shall  I  be  born  ? '  They  said  to  him,  '  To  the 
seasons,  the  years,  the  creatures,  the  beasts,  these  worlds/'  etc.  The  same  Brahmana, 
ii.  2,  10,  1,  tells  us  that  Prajapati  created  Indra  last  of  the  gods,  and  sent  him  to  be 
the  lord  of  the  other  deities.  The  gods  said  to  him,  '  Who  "art  thou  ? '  '  We  are 
superior  to  thee.'  He  reported  their  reply  to  Prajapati,  and  asked  for  the  splendour 
which  resided  in  Prajapati,  in  order  that  he  might  become  the  chief  of  the  gods,  etc." 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA,  81 

In  vi.  59,  2,  Indra  and  Agni,  as  we  have  already  seen,  p.  14,  are  said 
to  be  twin  brothers,  having  the  same  father,  and  whose  mothers  are,  the 
orve  here,  the  other  there.  (The  sense  of  this  is  not  very  evident,  unless 
it  simply  mean  that  the  mothers  are  different.)  <In  x.  55, 1,  his  brother's 
children  are  mentioned  (ud  astabhndh  Prithivlm  Dydm  abhlke  bhrdtuh 
putrdn  maghqvan  fjtvishdna/i).  Heaven  and  Earth  seem  to  be  intended. 
If  so,  who  is  their  father  ?  In  vi.  55,  5,  Pushan  is  called  Indra's 

j  9 

brother  (bhrdtd  Indrasya). 

Even  as  an  infant  Indra  is  said  to  have  manifested  his  warlike  ten- 
dencies. "  As  soon  as  he  was  born,  the  slayer  of  Vrittra  (Indra)  grasped 
his  arrow,  and  asked  his  mother,  '  Who  are  they  that  are  renowned  as 
fierce  warriors?'  "  (viii.  45,  4,  d  bunddm  vrittrahd  dade  jdtah  prichhad 
vi  mdtaram  \  ke  ugrdh  ke  ha  srinwre  \  viii.  66,  1.  Jajndno  hi  satakratur 
vi  prichhad  iti  mdtaram  \  he  ugrdh  ke  ha  srinvire  |).  His  worshipper 
says  of  him:  1,  102,  8.  Asatrur  Indra  janushd  sandd  asi  \  "Thou, 
Indra,  art  of  old  by  nature  without  an  entfmy."  Compare  i.  176,  1. 
S'atrum  anti  na  vindasi  \  x.  133,  2..  Asatrur  Indra  jajnishe]. 

In  i.  82,  5,  6,  Indra's  wife  is  alluded  to.  5.  Tenajdydm  upa  priydm 
manddno  ydhi  \  6.  Sam  u  patnyd  amadah  \  »"  Go  exhilarated  to  thy 
dear  wife."  "  Be  exhilarated  with  thy  wife." 

In  another  place  iii.  53,  4  ff.,  the  poet  describes  the  perplexity  he 
fancies  Indra  must  feel  in  choosing  between  the  attractions  of  home 
and  those  his  worshippers  have,  to  offer  in  the  way  of  soma-libations. 

4.  Jdyd  id  astam  maghavan  sd  id  u  *yonis  tad  it  tvd  yuktdh  harayo 
vuhantu  \  yadd  kadd  cha  sunavdma  somam  Agnis  tvd  duto  dhanvdti  achha  \ 

5.  Para  ydhi  maghavann  d  cha  ydhi  Indra  bhrdtar  ubhayatra  te  artham  \ 
yatra  raihaSya  brihato  nidhdnam  vimochanam  vdjino  rdsabhasya  \    6. 
Apdh  somam  astam  ''Indra  pra  ydhi  kalydmr  jdyU  suranam  grihe  te  \ 
yatra  rathasya  Irihato  nidhdnam  vimochanam  vdjino  dakshindvat  \ 

(Prajapatir  Indram  asrijata  anujavaram  devanam  \  tarn  prahinot  "parehi  \  etesham 
devanam  adhipatir  edhi "  iti  \  tarn  devah  abruvan  tlkas  tvam  asivayam  vai  tvat  sreyam- 
sah  smah"  iti  \  so  'bravit  utkas  tvam  asi  vayam  vai  tvat  s'reyamsah  smah'  iti  nta 
devah  abruvann"  iti  \  atha  vai  idam  tar  hi  Prajapatau  harah  asld  (2)  Tad  asminn 
aditye  \  tad  enam  abravld  "  etad  me  prayachha  \  atha  %ham  etesham  devanam  adhi- 
patir bhavishyami"  iti  \  ).  Compare  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita  vi.  6,  11,  2,  where 
Indra  is  said  to  have  become  chief  of  the  gods  in  virtue  of  a  ceremony  which  Pra- 
japati  communicated  to  him.  See  also  the  same  work  vii.  2,  10,  2.  In  another 
place  vii.  3,  6,  6,  he  is  said  to  have  obtained  from  Prajapati  the  panchadasaratra 
vajra,  whereby  he  was  enabled  to  overcome  the  Asuras,  of  whom  he  had  previously 
been  afraid,  and  to  attain  prosperity. 

6 


82  THE   INDIAN  GODS    GENERALLY, 

4.  "A  wife,  Indra,  is  one's  home;  she  is  a  man's  dwelling;  there- 
fore let  thy  horses  be  yoked,  and  carry  thee  thither.  But  whenever 
we  pour  forth  a  libation  of  soma,  then  may  Agni  hasten  to  call  thep. 
5.  Depart,  Indra;  come 'hither,  brother  Indra;  in  both  quarters  thou 
hast  inducements.  "Whenever  thy  great  chariot  halts,  thy  steed  is 
unharnessed.  6.  Depart,  Indra,  to  thy  home ;  thon  ha^t  drunk  the 
soma ; "  thou  hast  a  lovely  wife,  and  pleasure  in  thy  house.  Where- 
ever  thy  great  chariot  halts,  it  is  proper  that  thy  steed  should  be 
unharnessed." 

In  a  few  passages  (i.  22,  12;  ii.  32,.  8 ;  v.  46,  8  ;  x.  86,  11,  12) 
mention  is  made  of  a  goddess  Indrani,  who,  from  her  name,  must  be 
the  spouse  of  Indra.  In  the  first  three  places  she  is  invoked  together 
with  other  goddesses,  among  whom  w^find  Agnayl  and  Varunam,  the 
wives  of  Agni  and  Yaruna.  In  x.  86,  11,  12,  a  little  more  is  told  of 
Indrani.  Thus  in  verse  11,  the  speaker  says:  Indrdmm  dsu  ndrishu 
sulhagdm  aham  asravam  f  nahi  asydh  aparam  chana  jarasd  marate 
patih  |  "  I  have  heard  that  among  all  these  females  Indrani  is  the  most 
fortunate ;  for  her  husband  shall  never  at  any  future  time  die  of  old 
age."153  The  Aitareya  Brahmana,  iii.  22,  alludes  to  a  wife  of  Indra, 
called  Prasaha\fo  devdh  abruvann  iyam  nai  Indrasya  priydjdyd  vdvdtd 
Prdsahd  ndma).  See  Professor  Haug's  Translation,  p.  194. 

The  S'atap.  Br.  xiv.  2,  1,  8,  says:  " Indram  is  Indra's  beloved  wife 
and  she  has  a  head-dress  of  all  forms  "  (Indrdnl  ha  vai  Indrasya,  priyd 
patrii  \  tasydh  ushnlsho  visvarupatiamali). 


153  I  am  unable  to  say  to  whom  the  obscene  verses  (6  and  7)  of  this  hymn  refer. 
In  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  4,  2,  7,  she  is  thus  portentously  described :  Indrani  devf  subhaga 
supatnl  ud  amsena  pati~$idye' jigaya  \  triihsad  asyah  jayhanam  yojanani  \  upasthe 
Indram,.sthaviram  bibhartti  \  Professor  Weber,  Ind.  Stud.  iii.  479,  quotes  from  the 
Kathaka,  13,  5,  a  short  passage,  stating  that  Indra  was  enamoured  of  a  Danavl, 
called  Vilistenga,  and  that  he  lived  among  the  Asuras,  taking  the  form  of  a  female 
when  among  females,  of  a  male  among  males ;  and  that  finding  himself,  as  it  were, 
seized  by  Nirriti,  he  resorted  to  a  certain  oblation  as  a  remedy,"  etc.  (Indro  vai  Vilis- 
tengam  Danavlm  akamayata,  \  so  'sureshv  acharat  strleva  strishu  bhavanpumanpumsu  \ 
sa  Nirriti-grihltah  iva  amapyata  \  sa  etam  aindra-nairritam  apasyat  |)  In  the 
Atharva-veda,  vii.  38,  2,  a  female  says  to  the  man  she  wishes  to  love  her :  Yena  a 
nichakre  asuri  Indram  devebhyas  pari  \  tena  a  ni  kurve  tvam  aham  yatha  te  'sani 
supriya  \  "  In  order  that  I  may  be  beloved  by  thee,  I  overcome  thee  with  this  plant, 
wherewith  the  Asura  female  drew  Indra  down  from  among  the  gods." 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA.  83 


(2)  His  attributes  physical  and  mental. 

A  variety  of  vague  and  general  epithets  are  lavished  upon  Indra. 
He  is  distinguished  as  youthful,  ancient,  strong,  agile  (nritu  i.  130,  7; 
ii.  22,  4;  vi.  29,  3;  viii.  24,  9,  12;  viii.  57,  7;  viii.  81,  3),  martial, 
heroic,  bright,  undecaying,  all- conquering,  lord  of  unbounded  wisdom, 
and  irresistible  yower  and  prowess,  wielder  of  the  thunderbolt,  etc., 
etc.  (i.  4,  8  ;  i.  16,  9 ;  i.  30,  6,  15 ;  i.  61,  1 ;  i.  81,  2,  7 ;  i.  84,  2  ; 

1.  100,  12  ;  i.  102,  6;  i.  165,  6;  ii.  21,  1-3;  iii.  30,  3;  iii.  32,  7; 
iii.  45,  2  ;    iii.  46,  1 ;  vi.   18,  4;  vii.  20,  4  ;   vii.  22,  5  ;  viii.  81,  8; 
viii.  84,  7  ff. ;  x.  103,  1  ff).     "He  has  vigour  in  his  body,  strength  in 
his  arms,  a  thunderbolt  in  his  hand,  and  wisdom  in  his  head"  (ii.  16, 

2.  Jathare  somaih  tanvi  saho  maho  haste  vaj'ram  bharati  sirsJiani  Tcratum  \ 
viii.  85,  3.  Indrasya  vajrah  dyaso  nimislah  Indrasyo  bdhvor  bhuyishtham 
ojdh  |  Indrasya  &rshan  kratavo  nireke) :  H<j  assumes  the  most  beautiful 
forms,  and  is  invested  with  the  ruddy  lustre  of  the  sun"  (x.  112,  3. 
haritvatd  varchasd  suryasya  sresht&aih  rupais  tanvam  sparsayasva).    The 
Vedic  poets  have  also  described  to  us  a  few  of  the  features,  as  they 
conceived  them,  of  his  personal  appearance.     One  of  the  epithets  which 
are  most  frequently  applied  to  him  is  susipra,  or  £iprin,  in  the  interpre- 
tation of  which  Sayana  wavers  between   "the  god  with  handsome 
cheeks  or  nose  "  (he  susipra  sobhana-hano  sobhana-ndsika  vd).     (i.  9,  3 ; 
i.  29,  2;    i.  81,  4;    i.  101,  10;1M  iii.  32,  3  ;    iii.  36,  10  ;    viii.  32,  4, 
24  ;  viii.   33,  7  ;  viii.  55,  4 ;  x.  105,  5),155  and  the  "  god  with  the 
beautiful  helmet "  (sobhana-sirastrdnopeto  yadvd  sobhana-hanumdn  \  iii. 
30,  3;  viii,  17,  4»;  viii.  81,  4;  viii.  82,  12). 156 

In  viii.  65,  10,  he  is  said  to  have  agitated  hjs  jaws  when  rising  in 
strength  after  drinking  the  soma  poured  out  from  a  ladle  (uttishthann 
ojasd  saha  pitvl  sipre  avepayah  \  somam  Indra  chamu  sutam).  He  is 

154  Compare  i.  30,  11. 

J55  A  note  on  this  word  will  be  given  in  the  Section  on  the  Maruts.  * 

156  In  R.V.  vi.  46,  3,  Indra  is  styled  sahasra-mmhka,  which  Sayana  interprets  mitte 
membra  genitalia  habens  ;  and  adds  the  following  gross  explanation  from  the  Kaushl- 
taki  Brahmana  :  yam  kam  cha  striyam  sambhavann  Indro  bhoga-lolupataya  svasa^ire 
parvani  parvani  sephan  sasarjja  iti  kaushltakibhir  amnatam  \  On  viii.  19,  32,  how- 
ever, where  the  same  epithet  occurs,  applied,  as  Sayana  considers,  to  Agni,  he  explains 
it  as  meaning  "having  great  brilliancy "  (mushnanti  tamamsy  apaharanti  iti  mush- 
kani  tejamsi  \  bahutejaskam). 


84  THE  INDIAN  GODS    GENERALLY, 

also  called  hari-sipra,  the  ruddy-jawed  (x.  96,  4,  9,  12) ;  hari-kesa, 
the  ruddy-  or  golden-haired  (x.  96,  5,  8) ;  hari-smasdru,151  the  ruddy- 
or  golden-bearded,  or  moustached  (x.  96,  8 ;  x.  23,  4).  His  beard  is 
violently  agitated  when  h'e  is  exhilarated,  or  puts  himself  in  motion 
(ii.  11,  17,  pradodhuvat  smasrushu  prindnah;  x.  23,  1,  pra  smasru 
dodhuvat}.155  His  whole  appearance  is  ruddy  or  goldea  (hari-varpas,  x. 
96,  Iff.,  where  the  changes  are  rung  upon  the  word  hqri).  He  is  some- 
times also  described  as  hiranyaya,  golden  (i.  7,  2 ;  viii.  55,  3),  and  as 
having  golden  arms  (hiranya-ldhu,  vii.  34,  4) ;  and  sometimes  as  of  an 
iron  hue,  or  frame  (ayasa)  (i.  56,  3 ;  x.  96,  4,  8).  His  arms  are  long 
and  far-extended  (vi.  19,  3,  prithu  karasnd  lahuld  galhastl ;  viii.  32, 

10,  sripra-karasna ;  viii.  70,  1,  mahdhastin}.™    But  his  forms  are  end- 
less; he  can  assume  any  shape  at  will  (iii.  38,  4,  visvarupo  amritdni 
tasthau;  iii.  '48,  4,  yathdvasam  tanvarn  chakre  esha ;  iii.  53,  8,  rupam 
rupam  maghavd  bobhavlti  mdydh  krinvdnas  tanvam  pari  svdm ;  vi.  47, 
18,  rupam  rupam  pratirupo  lalhuva  tad  asyq  rupam  pratichakshandya  \ 
Indro  mdydlhih  pururupah  lyate}.     - 

9 

^  (3)  His  chariot  and  horses. 

Carrying  in  his  hand  a  golden  whip  (ka£a  hiranyayi,  viii.  33,  11), 
he  is  borne  on  a  shining  golden  car,  with  a  thousand  supports  (vi.  29, 
2,  d  rathe  hiranyaye  rathesthdh;  viii.  1,  24  f.,  rathe  hiranyaye ;  viii. 
58,  16,  a  ratham  tishtha  hiranyayzm  sahasrapddam],  which  moves  more 
swiftly  than  thought  (x.  112,  2,  yas  te  ratho  manaso  javlydn  d  Indra 
tena  somapeydya  ydhi],  and  is  drawn  by  two  16°  tawny  (harl,  ruddy,  or 

157  I  suppose  this  is  th#  sarfre  as  hiri-smasru  applied  torAgni  in  R.V.  x.  46,  5 
(instead  pS  which  the  Suma-veda  in  the  parallel  passage  reads  harismasru.     In  R.V. 

11.  2,  5,  Agni  is  called  hirisipra,  which  Sayana  interprets  to  mean  either  harana-slla- 
hanu,  "he  whose  jaws  carry  away,"  or  dlptoshntsha,  "with  naming  head-dress." 

158  A  beard  is  also  assigned  to  Pushan,  who  similarly  shakes  it  (x.  26,  7). 

159  In  a  verse  which  does  not  occur  in  the  Rig-veda,  the  Sama-veda,  ii.  1219,  thus 
'describes  Indra's  arms:     Indrasya  bahu    sthavirau  yuvanav   anadhrishyau  supra- 
tlkav   asahyau  \  tau  yunjita  prathamau  yoge  agate  yabhyam  jitam  asuranam  saho 
mahat  \  "  When  the  occasion  arrives  may  Indra  employ  first  those  arms  strong,  youth- 
fulj  unassailable,  well-shaped,  unconquerable,  with  which  the  great  power  of  the 
Asuras  was  overcome." 

160  In  ii.  18,  4-7  Indra  is  invited  to  come  with  two,  four,  six,  eight,  ten,  twenty, 
thirty,  forty,  fifty,  sixty,  seventy,  eighty,  ninety,  or  a  hundred  horses  (compare  viii. 
1,  9)  to  drink  the  soma-juice.     In  iv.  46,  3,  a  thousand  horses  are  said  to  convey 


AS   REPRESENTED   IN  THE  RIG-VEDA.  85 

golden)  steeds,  snorting,  neighing,  and  irresistible  (i.  30,  16,  Sasvad 
Indrah  popruthadlhir  jigdya  ndnadadbhih  sdsvasadbhir  dhandni  ;  i.  81, 
3,'  madachyutd  harl"),161  with  flowing  golden  manes,  Tcesind  (i.  10,  3  ; 
i.  82,  6  ;  viii.  17,  2 ;  hiranya-kesyd,  viii.  32,  29^;  viii.  82,  24),  with  hair 
like  peacock's  feathers  (iii.  45,  1  (=A.Y.  vii.  117,  1),  a  haribhir  ydhi 
mayura-romtfbhihy,  and  peacock's  tails  (mayurasepyd,  viii.  1,  25),  which 
rapidly  traverse  Tjast  distances  (>ii.  16,  3,  yad  d&ulhih  patasi  yojand 
puru\  and  transport  him  as  a  hawk  is  borne  by  its  wings  (viii.  34,  9, 
a  tvd  madachyutd  harl  syenam  pdksheva  vakshatah}.  His  car  and  horses 
appear  to  have  been  formed  by  the  Bibhus  (i.  Ill,  1,  Takshan  rathaffi 
suvritam  vidmand  'pasas  takshan  harl  Indravdhd  vrishanvasu  \  takshan 
pitribhydm  ribhavo  yuvad  vayah  ;  v.  31,  4,  anavas  te  ratham  asvdya 
takshan}.  The  following  are  some  of  the  other  texts  which  refer  to 
Indra's  chariot  and  horses:  i.  6,  2 ;  i.  16,  1,  2  (where  the  horses 
are  called  sun-eyed,  surachahhasah] -,  i.  55,  7;  i.  84,  6;  i.  101,  10;  ii. 
11,  6;  viii.  13,  11,  27;  x.  44,  2.  He  is  also  said  to  be  borne  by  the 
horses  of  the  Sun  (x.  49,  7,  aham  mfyasyapari  ydmi  dsubhihpra  etasebhir 
vahamdnah  ojasd),  or  by  those  of  Vata,  the  wind  (x.  22,  4-6,  yujdno  a£vd 
Vdtasya  dhunl  devo  devasya  vajrivah}.^  The  same  deity,  Vayu,  the 
wind,  is  said  to  have  Indra  for  his  charioteer,  or  companion  in  his  car 
(iv.  46,  2;  iv.  48,  2,  Indra-sdrathi  ;  vii.  91,  6,  Indra-vdyu  saratham 
ydtam  arvdlc).  The  horses  of  Indra  are  declared  to  be  yoked  by  the 
power  of  prayer  (i.  82,  6,  yunajmi  te  brahmand  Jcesind  harl ;  ii. 
18,  3,  harl  nu  kam  rathe  Indrasya  yojam  dyai  suktena  vachasd  no/vena  ; 
iii.  35,  4,  brahmand  te  IraJimayujd  yunajmi  harl  sakhdyd  sadhamddd 
diu ;  viii.  ,1,  24,  brafimayiy'o  harayah;  viii.  17,  2,  brahmayujd  harl; 
viii.  2,  27  ;  viii.  45,  39,  a  te  eta  vachoyujv  harl  gribhne ;  viii.  87,  9, 
yunjanti  harl  ishirasya  gdthayd  urau  rathe  uruyuge  \  Indravdh(\  vacho- 
yujd\  which  is  no  doubt  only  another  mode  of  saying  that  it  is  in  con- 

Indra  and  Vayu  (compare  vi.  47,  18).  In  viii.  1,  24,  Indra's  horses  are  said  to  be  a 
thousand  and  a  hundred.  From  such  a  text  as  iii.  35,  7,  where  Indra  is  informed, 
that  food  has  heen  provided  for  his  horses,  as  well  as  soma-juice  to  fill  his  own  belly 
(verse  6),  it  would  appear  that  the  worshipper  had  a'perfect  assurance  of  the  god's 
presence.  In  another  place,  however  (x.  114,  9),  the  enquiry  is  made  (among  several 
others  denoting  difficulty  and  mystery),  "  "Who  has  perceived  the  two  horses  of 
Indra  ?  "  (hari  Indrasya  ni  chikaya  kah  svit  \  ). 

161  On  the  sense  of  the  word  madachyut  see  Miiller's  Trans,  of  the  R.V.  i.  118  f. 

»2  Compare  Psalms,  18,  10 ;  104,  3. 


86  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY, 

sequence  of  the  importunity  of  his  worshippers  that  he  makes  ready 

his  chariot  to  come  and  receive  their  oblations  and  fulfil  their  desires. 

« 

(4)  His  thunderbolt  and  other  weapons  and  instruments. 

The  thunderbolt  of  Indra  is  generally  describe^  as  having  been 
fashioned  for  him  by  the  Indian  Hephaistos,  Tvashtri,  the  artificer  of  the 
gods  (i.  32,  2:  Tvashta  asmai  vajram  svaryam  tataksha;  i.  61,  6,  asmai 
id  u  Tvashta  takshad  vajram  svapastamam  svaryam  randya;  i.  85,  9, 
Tvashta  yad  vajram  sukritam  hiranyayam  sahasralhristim  svapdh  avart- 
tayat  \  v.  31,  4,  Tvashta  vajram  dyumantam  talcshat;  vi.  17,  10,  adha 
Tvashta  U  mahe  ugra  vajram  sahasrabhrishtim  vavritat  satd&rim  \  x.  48,  3, 
mahyam  Tvashta  vajram  atakshad  dyasam) ;  but  according  to  other  texts 
it  appears  to  have  been  made  and  given  to  Indra  by  Kavya  TJsanas 
(i.  121,  12,  yam  te  Kdvyah  Usana  mandinam  dad  vrittrdhanam  pdryam 
tataksha  vajram;  v.  34,  2, 'sahasrabhrishtim  Usana  vadham  yamat)™ 
Its  natural  mode  of  production  is  alluded  to  in  viii.  89,  9,  where  it  is 
said  :  "  The  thunderbolt  lies  in  the  (aerial)  ocean,  enveloped  in  water" 
(samudre  antah  say  ate  udnn  vajro  alhwritah}.  This  thunderbolt  is  some- 
times styled  golUen,  hiranyaya(i.  57,  2;  i.  85,  9;  viii.  57,  3  ;  x.  23,  3), 
sometimes  ruddy,  harita  (x.  96,  3) ;  but  it  is  also  described  as  being 
of  iron,  dyasa  (i.  52,  8;  i.  80,  12;  i.  81,  4;  i.  121,  9;  viii.  85,  3; 
x.  48,  3  ;  x.  96,  3;  x.  113,  5) ;  sometimes  it  is  represented  as  four- 
angled,  chaturasri  (iv.  22,  2),  sometimes  as  hundred-angled,  iatdsri  (vi. 
17,  10),  sometimes  as  hundred-jointed,  sataparvan  (i.  80,  6  ;  viii.  6, 
6;  viii.  65,  2;  viii.  78,  3),164  and  sometimes  as  having  a  thousand 
points,  sahasrabhrishti  (i.  80,  12;  i.  85,  9;  v.  34,  2 ;  vi.  17,  10). 
Indra  is  in  one  place  (L  55,  1)  represented  as  sharpening  his  thunder- 
bolt, as  "a  bull  his  horns  (sislte  vajram  tejase  na  vamsagah}.  In  viii.  59, 
2,  the  thunderbolt  put  into  Indra's  hand  is  compared  to  the  sun  placed 
in  the  sky  (dive  na  suryah}.  In  other  passages  this  god  is  spoken  of 

IBS  The  Ait.  Br.  iv.  1,  says :  devah  vai  prathamena  ahna  Indraya  vajram  sama- 
bharan  \  tarn  dvifiyena  ahna  nsinchan  \  trifiyena  ahna  prayachhan  \  tarn  chaturthe 
ahan  praharat  \  "  The  gods  provided  the  thunderbolt  for  Indra  by  the  first  day's 
(ceremony).  By  the  second  day's  they  moistened  it.  By  the  third  day's  they  gave 
it  to  him.  On  the  fourth  day  he  hurled  it."  See  Prof.  Haug's  Trans,  p.  255. 

164  Compare  A.V.  iv.  37,  8  :  bhiniah  Indrasyo,  hetayah  satabhrishtlr  ayasmayih ; 
and  the  next  verse,  which  is  the  same,  with  the  substitution  of  hiranyaylh  for  ayas- 
mayih ;  and  A.V.  viii.  5,  15. 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA.  87 

as  armed  with  a  bow  and  arrows  (viii.  45,  4 ;  viii.  66,  6,  11  ;  x.  103, 
2,  3).  His  arrows  are  described  as  golden  (viii.  66,  11),  as  having  a 
hundred  points,  and  as  being  winged  Avith  a  thousand  feathers  (viii.  66, 
7).  Indra  is  also  declared  to  carry  a  hook  (ankusa).  Thus  in  yiii.  17> 
10,  it  is  said:  dirghas  te  astu  anTcuso  yena  vasu  prayachhasi  \  yajamd- 
ndya  sunvaie  \  "May  the  hook  be  long  wherewith  thou  reachest 
wealth  to  the  worshipper  who,  offers  oblations."  And  similarly  in 
Atharva-veda,  vi.  82,  3,  yas  te  ankuso  vasuddno  brihann  Indra  hiran- 
yayah  \  tend  janlyate  jdydm  mahyam  dhehi  sachlpate  \  "With  that 
great  golden  hook  of  thine  which  confers  wealth,  o  lord  of  power 
(Indra),  reach  a  wife  to  me  who  am  longing  for  one."165  Another 
text  in  which  this  word  occurs  is  R.Y.  x.  134,  6  (=  Sama-veda  ii. 
441) :  dlrgham  hi  ankusam  yathd  saktim  bibharshi  mantumah  \  purvena 
maghavan  padd  ajo  vaydm  yathd  \  "  Thou,  o  wise  (Indra),  earnest  a 
long  hook  like  a  spear,  and  (boldest  fast  therewith),  as  a  goat  (catches) 
a  branch  with  its  fore  foot."  The  word  is  also  found  in  x.  44,  9 :  "I 
carry  to  thee  this  well-made  goad,  wherewith,  o  magnificent  god,  thou 
mayest  rend  the  S'apharuj  demons"166  (imam  bibharmi  sukritam  te 
ankusam  yena  drujdsi  maghavan  iaphdrujah). 

Another  instrument  of  warfare,  a  net,  is  assigned  to  Indra  in  the 
A.V.  viii.  8,  5  ff. :  antariksham  jdlam  dslj  jdladandd  diso  mahlh  \  tend- 
bhidhdya  dasyunam  sakrah  sendm  apdtayat  \  6.  Brihad  hi  jdlam 
brihatah  sakrasya  vdjinlvatah  \  tena  iatrun  alhi  sarvdn  nyulja  yathd  na 
muchydtai  katamaschana  eshdm  \  7.  Brihat  te  jdlam  brihatah  Indra 
sura  sahasrdrghasya  satavlryasya  \  tena  sahasram  ayutam  ni  arludam 
jaghdna  sakro  dasyunam  abhidhdya  senayd  \  8.  ayam  ,J,oko  jdlam  dslt 
sakrasya  mahato  mahdn  \  tendham  Indrqidlena  amums  tamasd  'bhi 
dadhdmi  sarvdn  I 


165  In  these  passages  I  follow  Roth's  explanation  of  ankusa,  as  given  in  his  Lexi- 
con, s.v.    In  his  translation  of  this  passage  from  the  A.V.  in  Indische  Studien  v.  241, 
Professor  "Weher  understands  the  word  (ankusa)  of  a  goad  with  which  cattle  ar« 
driven.    In  A.V.  vii.  115,  1,  111  fortune,  Papi  Lakshml,  is  said  to  be  drawn  or  driven 
away  with  an  iron  hook  (ayasmayena  ankena). 

166  I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Aufrecht  for  pointing  out  the  sense  of  this  verse, 
as  well  as  of  the  preceding.     S'apharuj  seems  to  mean  a  demon,  or  an  animal  that 
destroys  with  its  hoofs.     The  word  occurs  also  in  x.  87,  12,  where  it  is  an  epithet 
of  Yatudhana,  a  demon,  and  appears  to  refer  to  some  goblin  which  was  conceived  to 
tear  with  its  hoofs. 


88  THE  INDIAN  GODS  GENERALLY, 

"  The  air  was  a  net,  and  the  great  quarters  of  the  sky  the  poles  of  the 
net.  "With  it  S'akra  (or  the  powerful  god)  enveloped  the  army  of  the 
Dasyus,  and  cast  them  down.  6.  Great  is  the  net  of  the  great  S'akra, 
bestower  of  food.  "With  it  so  overwhelm  all  the  foes  that  not  one  of 
them  may  escape.  7.  Great  is  thy  net,  o  heroic  Indra,  who  art  great, 
and  a  match  for  a  thousand,  and  equalling  the  strength  of  a  hundred 
foes.  S'akra,  with  his  host,  slew  a  thousand,  ten  thousand,  a  hundred 
millions  of  the  Dasyus,  enveloping  them  in  it.  8.  This  world  was  the 
great  net  of  the  great  S'akra.  With  this  net  of  Indra  I  envelope  them 
all  in  darkness."  167 

(5)  His  love  of  soma-juice. 

Invoked  by  his  mortal  worshippers,  Indra  obeys  the  summons,  and 
speedily  arrives  in  his  chariot  to  receive  their  offerings.  He  finds  food 
provided  for  his  horses  (iiis  35,  7,  stlrnam  te  larhih  sutah  Indra  somah 
kritd  dhdnd  attave  te  harilhyam),  and  large  libations  of  soma-juice  are 
poured  out  for  himself  to  quaff.  He  becomes  exhilarated  by  these 
libations,  which  are  also  Ofrequently  described  as  stimulating  his  war- 
like disposition^  and  energies,  and  fitting  him  for  his  other  functions, 
even  for  supporting  the  earth  and  sky  (ii.  15,  2  :  avamSe  Dydm  asta- 
Hhayad  Irihantam  .  .  .  .  sa  dhdrayat  Prithivlm  paprathat  cha  somasya 
td  made  Indras  chakdra).  The  following  are  a  few  of  the  numerous 
passages  which  refer  to  this  worship  of  Indra :  i.  4,  8 ;  i.  32,  3 ; 
i.  80,  If.;  i.  84,  1  (where  the  poet  hopes  the  draught  may  fill  him 
with  strength,  as  the  sun  fills  the  air  with  his  rays :  a  tvd  pri- 
naktu  indriyam  rajah  suryo  na  rasmilhih\  4  (where  it  is^  said  to  be 
an  "immortal  stimulant'* — amartyam  madam)',  iif  15,  1,  2;  ii.  19,  1 
f. ;  ii.  '21,  1  ;  iii.  36,  3  ;  iii.  40,  1  ff.  ;  iii.  42,  1  ff.  ;  vi.  23,  1,  5,  6; 
vi.  27,  1  f. ;  vi.  29,  4 ;  vii.  22,  1  f. ;  vii.  29,  1  f. ;  viii.  3,  1 ;  viii.  81, 
5,  6  ;  x.  104,  1  ff. ;  etc.,  etc.  The  gods  are  described  as  all  hastening 
eagerly  to  partake  of  this  beverage,  viii.  2,  18  (yanti  pramddam  atan- 
drdh)',  viii.  58, 11 :  apdd  Indro  apdd  Agnir  visve  devdh  amatsata  \  "Indra 
has  drunk,  Agni  has  drunk ;  all  the  gods  have  become  exhilarated;"168 

167  Compare  A.V.  xix.  66,  1 :  ayojalah  asurah  mayino  'yasmayaih  pasair  ankino 
ye  charanti   \   tarns  te  randhayami   harasa   Jatavedah   sahasrabhrishtih  sapatnan 
praminan  yahi  vajrah. 

168  Ait.  Br.  vi.  11 :  madyanti  iva  vai  madhyandine  devatah  sam  eva  triftya-savane 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA,  89 

but  Indra  is  particularly  addicted  to  the  indulgence,  i.  104,  9,  somakd- 
maffi  tvd  ahuh;  i.  175,  5,  sushmintamo  hi  te  madah  ;  ii.  14,  1,  Tcdml  hi 
vlrah  sadam  asya  pltim  juhota  vrishne  tad  hi  esha  vashti ;  vii.  33,  2, 
durdd  Indram  anayann  d  sutena  ;  viii.  2,  4,  Indrah  it  somapdh  ekah 
Indrah  sutapdh  visvdyuh  \  antar  devdn  martydmS  cha  I  "  Indra  is  the 
only  drinker  ctf  soma,  a  drinker  of  libations,  of  full  vitality,  among 
•gods  and  men;"  viii.  4,  12,  idam  -te  annam  yujyam  samukshitam  tasya 
ihi  pradrava  piba  \  "This  thy  favourite  nutriment  has  been  poured  out ; 
run  and  drink  of  it ; "  viii.  6,  40,  vrittrahd  somapdtamah  ;  viii.  50,  2, 
somakdmam  hi  te  manah  \  Indeed,  it  would  appear  to  be  to  him  an 
absolute  necessary  of  life,  as  his  mother  gave  it  to  him  to  drink  on  the 
very  day  of  his  birth  (iii.  32,  9,  sadyo  yaj  jdto  apilo  ha  somam  \  10. 
tvam  sadyo  apibo  jdtah  Indra  maddya  somam  parame  vyoman  ;  iii.  48,  2, 
3,  already  quoted,  p.  77;  vi.  40, 2,  asyapiba  yasya  jajndnah  Indro  maddya 
Tcratve  apibah  ;  vii.  98,  3,  jajndnah  somam  sahase  papdtha  pra  te  mdtd 
mahimdnam  uvdcha).  He  is  said  to  have  drunk  at  one  draught  thirty 
bowls  of  soma  (viii.  66,  4,  ekayd  pr'atidhd  'pibat  sdlcam  sardmsi  trim- 
Satam  \  Indrah  somasya  kdnuM.  See  Nirukta,  v.  1 1 ;  compare  E. Y. 
vi.  17,  11 ;  an4  viii.  7,  10).  His  worshippers  invite  him  in  the  most 
naif  manner  to  drink  boldly  (vi.  47,  6,  dhrishat  piba  kalase  somam 
Indra]\  to  drink  like  a  thirsty  stag  (viii.  4,  10,  risyo  na  trishyann 
avapdnam  dgahi  piba  somdn  vasdn  anu\  or  a  bull  roaming  in  a  water- 
less waste  (v.  36,  1,  dhanvacharo  na  vamsagas  trishdnas  chalcamdnah 
pibatu  dugdham  amium  \  compare  viii.  33,  2,  Icadd  sutam  trishdnah 
okah  dgamah  Indra  svabdlva  vamsagahj  and  fill  his  belly,  or  his  two 
bellies,  which, are  compared  to  two  lakes,  by  copious  potations;  and  he 
speaks  in  similar  language  of  having  accepted  <the  invitation169  (i.  8,  7 ; 
i.  104,  9;  ii.  11,  11  (sutdsah  prinantas  te  kulcshi  vardhayantu} ;  ij.  14, 
10;  ii.  16,  2;  iii.  35,  6  (dadhishva  imamjathare  indum  Indra'] ;  iii.  36, 
7,  8  (hraddh  iva  Jcukshayah  somadhdndh) ;  iii.  40,  5 ;  iii.  47,  1  (d 
sinchasva  jathare  madhvah  urmim);  iii.  51,  12  (pra  te  asnotu  kulcshyoh); 
viii.  12,  23  (saro  na  prdsi  udaram);  viii.  2,  1  (supurnam  udaram); 
viii.  17,  5-8  (d  te  sinchdmi  kulishyoh};  viii.  6?,  7;  viii.  81,  22-24; 

madat/ante,  which  Professor  Haug  translates :  "  The  gods  get  drunk,  as  it  were,  at 
the  mid-day  libation,  and  are  then  consequently  at  the  third  libation  in  a  state  of 
complete  drunkenness." 
169  The  soma-juice  was  also  drunk  by  the  worshippers  themselves,  and  its  effects  on 


90  THE    INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 

x.  28,  2  ;  x.  43,  7  ;  x.  104,  2  ;  A.Y.  ii.  5,  1  ff.  ;  vi.  2,  1  ff.  The 
soma-draughts  are  said  to  resort  to  him  as  birds  to  a  leafy  tree ;  and 
to  flow  to  him  as  waters  to  the  ocean,  or  rivulets  to  a  lake ;  and  his 
worshippers  are  then  said  to  magnify  him  as  grain  is  developed  by 
showers  of  rain,  x.  43,  4  ( Vayo  na  vriksham  supaldsam  dsadan  somdsah 
Indram  mandinai  chamushadah  \  7.  Apo  na  sindtium  abhi  yat  sama- 
ksharan  somdsah  Indram  kulydh  m?  hradam  \  vardhanti  viprdh  maho 
asya  sadane  yavam  na  vrishtir  divyena  ddnund}.  He  is  also  spoken  of 
as  eating  the  flesh  of  bulls,  or  buffaloes,  at  the  same  time  that  he 
drinks  the  draughts  of  soma  (x.  28,  3,  adrind  te  mandinah  Indra  tuydn 
sunvanti  somdn  pilasi  tvam  eshdm  \  pachanti  te  vrishathtin  atsi  teshdm). 
Three  hundred  are  mentioned  in  v.  29,  7  f.,  one  hundred  in  viii.  66, 
10,  and  one  in  x.  27,  2.  Indra  is  besought  to  taste  the  offering  pre- 
sented, and  to  take  delight  in  the  hymns  addressed  to  him,  as  an  ardent 
lover  desires  his  mistress  (iii.  52,  3=iv.  32,  16:  puroldsam  cha 
no  ghaso  josliaydse  giras  cha  \  vadhuyur  iva  yoshandm). 

The  sensations  of  the  god  after  drinking  the  soma-juice  are  thus 
described  in  Big-veda  x.  1 1 9  :  1 .  iti  vai  iti  me  mano  gam  asvam  sanuydm 
Hi  \  kuvit  somasya  apdm  iti  \  2.  pra  vdtdh  iva  dodhataft  un  md  pltdh 
ayamsata  \  kuvid  ity  ddi  \  3.  un  md  pltdh  ayamsata  ratham  asvdh  ivdsa- 
vah  |  kuvit — |  4.  upamd  matir  asthita  vdsrd  putram  iva  priyam  \  kuvit — | 

some  of  them  are  occasionally  described.  Thus  in  vi.  47,  3,  it  is  said  :  "This  (soma), 
when  drunk,  impels  my  voice;  if  awakes  tbe  ardent  thought"  ay  am  me  pltah 
udiyartti  vacham  ayam  manlsham  usatim  ajTyaK).  In  viii.  48,  3;  its  elevating  effect 
is  still  more  distinctly  told  in  these  words,  apama  somam  amritah  abhuma  aganma 
jyotir  avidamc*  devan  \  kim  nunam  asman  krinavad  aratih  kim  u  dhurttir  amrita 
marttyasya,  which  may  be  rendered  as  follows  : — 

!    "We've  quaffed  the  soma  bright, 

And  are  immortal  grown  ; 
"We've  entered  into  light, 

And  all  the  gods  have  known. 
"What  mortal  now  can  harm, 

Or  foeman  vex  us  more  ? 
Through  thee,  beyond  alarm, 
1  Immortal  god,  we  soar. 

Compare  the  curious  parallel  to  this  (already  noticed  in  the  3rd  Vol.  of  this  work, 
p.  265)  in  the  satirical  drama  of  Euripides,  the  Cyclops,  578,  ff.,  where  Polyphemus 
exclaims  in  his  drunken  exaltation  : 

'O  8'  ovpav6s  pot  ffVfj.fiffi.iy/j.fi'os  So/ce? 
Tp  77?  <ptpecr0ai,  TOV  Ai6s  re  rbv  6p6vov 
Afvffffca  rb  -KO.V  re  8aifj.ovwi>  ayvbv  cre/Sas. 


AS   REPRESENTED   IN  THE  RIG- VEDA.  91 

5.  ahaih  tashteva  vandhuram  pary  achdmi  hridd  matim  \  kuvit — |  6.  nahi 
me  akshipach  chana  achhdntsuh  pancha  krishtayah  \  kuvit — |   7.  na  hi  me 
rodasl  ubhe  any  am  paksham  chana  prati  \  kuvit — |  8.  abhi  dydm  mahind 
'bhavam  abhlmdm  prithivlm  mahlm  \  kuvit —  |   9.  hantdham  prithivlm 
imam  ni  dadhdnlha  veha  vd  \  kuvit —  |   10.  osham  it  prithivlm  aham 
janghandnlha  veha  va  \  kuvit — |   11.  Aim  me  anyah  paksho  adho  any  am 
achlkrisham   \   kuvit j —  |    12.  aham>  asmi  mahdmaho  abhinabhyam  udl- 
shitah  |   kuvit —  |    13.  griho  ydmi  arankrito  devebhyo  havyavdhanah  \ 
kuvit  somasya  apdm  iti  \  no 

"I  have  verily  resolved  to  bestow  cows  and  horses:  I  have  quaffed 
the  soma.  2.  The  draughts  which  I  have  drunk  impel  me  like  violent 
blasts :  I  have  quaffed  the  soma.  3.  The  draughts  which  I  have 
drunk  impel  me  as  fleet  horses  a  chariot :  I  have  quaffed  the  soma.  4. 
The  hymn  (of  my  worshipper)  has  hastened  to  me,  as  a  cow  to  her 
beloved  calf:  I  have  .quaffed  the  soma.  5.  I  turn  the  hymn  round 
about  in  my  heart,  as  a  carpenter  a  beam :  I  have  quaffed  the  soraa. 

6.  The  five  tribes  of  men  appear  to 'me  not  even  as  a  mote  :  I  have 
quaffed  the  soma.     7.  The  two  worlds  do  not  equal  even  one  half  of 
me :  I  have  quaffed  the  soma.     8.  I  surpass  in  greatness^  the  heaven 
and  this  vast  earth :  I  have  quaffed  the  soma.     9.  Come,  let  me  plant 
this  earth  either  here  or  there  :  I  have  quaffed  the  soma.     10.  Let  me 
smite  the  earth  rapidly  hither  or  thither :  I  have  quaffed  the  soma. 
11.  One  half  of  me  is  in  the  sky,  and  I  have  drawn  the  other  down  : 
I  have  quaffed  the  soma.     12.  I  am  majestic,  elevated  to  the  heavens : 
I  have  quaffed  the  soma.     13.  I  go  prepared  as  a  minister,  a  bearer  of 
oblations  to  thp  gods  :  I  have  quaffed  the  soma." 

The  hymns,  prayers,  and  worship  addressed*  to  Indra  are  described 
as  stimulating  his  energies  and  increasing  his  vigour  (i.  52,  7  :  fyrah- 
mdni  Indra  tava  ydni  vardhand);  i.  54,  8 ;  i.  80,  1  ;  ii.  11,  2  (ukthair 
vavridhdnah] ;  ii.  12,  14  (yasya  brahma  vardhanam  yasya  somaK) ;  iii. 
32,  12  f.  (yajno  hi  te  Indra,  vardhano  bhut ;  yah  stomelhir  vavridhe 
purvyelhir  yo  madhyelhir  uta  nutanelhih} ;  iii.  34,  1  (Irahmajutas 
tanvd  vavridhdnah)  ;  v.  31,  10  (Indra  Irahmdrii  tavishlm  avardhan) ; 
vi.  21,  2;  vi.  44,  13;  viii.  6,  1,  21,  31,  35  ;  via.  13,  16  (Indram  var- 

170  I  learn  from  a  note  to  Professor  Roth's  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  p.  101, 
that,  according  to  Sayana,  there  was  a  legend  that  Indra,  in  the  form  of  a  quail, 
drank  soma,  was  seen  by  the  rishi,  and  sang  his  own  praise  in  this  hymn. 


92  THE    INDIAN    GODS    GENERALLY, 

dhantu  no  girah  Indram  sutdsah  indavah]  ;  viii.  14,  5,  11  (yajnah 
Indram  avardhayaf] ;  viii.  82,  27  ;  viii.  87,  8  (vdr  na  tvd  yavydbhir 
vardhanti  £ura  brahmdni) ;  x.  50,  4  (bhuvas  tvam  Indra  brahmand 
mahdn) ;  x.  120,  5  (cfwdaydmi  te  dyudhd  vachobhih  sam  te  sisdmi  brah- 
mdnd  vaydmsi'},  and  the  worshippers  (as  well  as  the  gods)  are  said 
to  place  the  thunderbolt  in  his  hands  and  to  Assist 'its  efficacy  (i. 
63,  2,  d  te  vajram  jaritd  bdhvor  dhdt] ;  ii.  20yr  8  (ta&mai  tavasyam 
anu  ddyi  satrd  Indrdya  devebhir  arnasdtau  \  prati  yad  asya  vajram 
bdhvor  dhur  hatvl  dasyun  purah  dyaslr  ni  tdrlt) ;  iii.  32,  12  (yajnas 
te  vajram  Ahihatye  dvaf}.  The  other  deities,  too,  are  described  as  in- 
fusing divine  strength  into  Indra171  (i.  80,  15,  tasmin  nrimnam  uta  kra- 
tum  devdh  ojdmsi  sam  dadhuh} ;  vi.  20,  2  (divo  na  tulhyam  anu  Indra 
satrd  asuryam  develhir  dJidyi  visvam] ; 172  x.  48,  3  (mayi  devdso  avrijann 
apikratum}]  x.  113,  8;  x.  120,  3,  compare  x.  66,  4;  viii.  15,  8  (tava 
Dyaur  Indra  paumsyam  Prithlvi  vardhati  sravah\  and  as  placing  him  in 
the  van(i.  55",  3,  viivasmai  ugrah  karmane  purohitaK) ;  i.  131,  1  (Indram 
viive  sajoskaso  devdso  dadhire  purah) ;  vi.  17,  8  (adha  tvd  visve 
purah  Indra  devdh  eTcam  tavasam  dadhire  bhardya]  ;  viii.  12,  22 
(Indram  Vrittrdya  hanlave  devdso  dadhire  purah  \  see  also  v.  25).  Com- 
pare Taitt.  Br.  ii.  8,  3,  8  ;  Taitt.  S.  ii.  2,  11,  6,  and  A.Y.  vii.  84,  2  : 
apdnudo  janam  amitrdyantam  urum  develhyo  oJkrinor  u  lokam.  He  is 
impelled  and  fortified  by  the  Maruts;  iii.  32,  4  (yebhir  Vrittrasya 
ishito  viveda  amarmano  manyamdnasya  marma) ;  iii.  35,  9  (ydn  dbhaj'o 
marutah  Indra  some  ye  tvdm  avardhann  abhavan  ganas  te} ;  iii.  47,  3 
(ydn  dbhajo  maruto  ye  tvd  'nv  ahan  Vrittram  adadhus  tubhyam  ojah  I 
see  also  v.  4.) ;  vi.  17,  11  ;  viii.  7,  24 ;  x.  73,  1,  2 ;  x.  }13,  3  (visve  te 
atra  marutah  saha  tmmd  avardhann  ugra  mahimdnam  indriyam).113 

f 

171  Indra  on  his  side  again  is  said  to  give  divine  power  to  the  other  gods  (vi.  36, 1 : 
yad  deveshu  dharayathah  asuryam). 

172  Sayana  understands  develhih  of  the  worshippers :  stotraih  stuyamana  devata 
balavafi  bhavati,  "  a  deity  when  lauded  hy  hymns  becomes  strong." 

173  Indra,  however,  in  a  dispute  with  the  Maruts  (to  which  I  shall  again  advert  in 
the  section  on  those  deities),  claims  to  have  slain  Vrittra  by  his  own  might,  i.  165,  8  : 
vadhlm  vrittram  marutah  indriyena  svena  bhamena  tavisho  babhuvan  ;  compare  vii. 
21,  6,  where  the  same  thing  is  said  of  him  by  his  worshipper :  svena  hi  Vrittram 
sava'sa  jaghantha  no,  satrur  antam  vividad  yudha  te;  and  x.   138,  6  :  eta  tya  te 
srutyani  kevala  yad  ekah  ekam  akrinor  ayajnam.     Compare  viii.  79,  5 ;  viii.  86,  9  ; 
viii.  87,  3.    In  v.  30,  S^all  the  gods  are  said  to  be  afraid  of  him  (atas  chid  Indrad 
abhayanta  devah).    In  another  place,  too  (viii.  7,  31),  the  Maruts  are  asked  "  what 


AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    RIG-VEDA.  93 

With.  Brihaspati  as  his  ally  he  overthrew  all  the  enemies  of  the  gods 
who  assailed  him,  viii.  85,  15  (viso  adevlr  abhi  acharantlr  Brihaspatina 
yuja  Indrah  sasahe). 

Thus  exhilarated  and  encouraged,  ii.   15,  1  '(trikadrulceshu  apilat 

tiiey  were  seeking  when,  they  deserted  Indra,  and  who  could  then  trust  in  their 
friendship  "  had  ha  nunam  kadhapriyo  yadlndram  ajahatana  \  ko  vah  sakhitve  ohate  \ 
Prof.  Miiller,  Trans.  R.V.  i.  p.  68,  takes  kcdhapriyah  as  two  words,  and  renders  the 
verse  thus  :  "  What  then  now  ?  where  is  there  a  friend,  now  that  you  hare  forsaken 
Indra  ?  "Who  cares  for  your  friendship?")  Compare  iv.  18,  11,  quoted  above  (p.  78  f.), 
where  Indra's  mother  complains  that  the  gods  were  abandoning  her  son,  and  where 
he  calls  upon  Vishnu  to  display  his  valour.  But  we  are  elsewhere,  viii.  85,  7,  toldf 
on  the  contrary,  that  all  the  other  gods  who  had  been  Indra's  allies,  terrified  by  the 
blast  of  Vrittra's  breath,  deserted  Indra  and  fled,  while  the  Maruts,  it  must  be  sup- 
posed, stood  firm,  as  Indra  is  advised  to  make  friends  with  them,  and  then  he  should 
conquer  all  hostile  armies  (vrittrasya  tva  Svasathad  Ishamanah  vis've  devah  ajahur  ye 
sakhdyah  \  Marudbhir  Indra  sakhyam  te  astu  at  ha  imah  vis  vah  pritandh  jayast). 
The  commentator,  however  (perhaps  because  he  found  it  necessary,  for  dogmatical 
reasons,  to  reconcile  these  conflicting  statements)  interprets  viii.  7,  31  differently,  and 
makes  it  mean,  "  When  did  you  desert  Indra  ?  i.e.  never,"  and  quotes  the  Aitareya 
Brahmana  iii.  20,  which  says  that  the  Maruts  .did  not  abandon  him.  I  shall  cite  this 
passage  at  greater  length  than  Sayana  gives  it,  as  it  forms  a  comment  on  the  other 
text  just  adduced,  viii.  85,  7 :  Indro  vai  Vritram  hanishyan  sarv&h  devatdh  abravld 
anu  ma  upatishthadhvam  upa  ma  ahvayadhvam"  iti  (""" tat ha"  iti  \  tarn  hanish- 
yantahadravan  \  so'ved"mam  vai  hanishyantah  adravanti  \  hanta  ihian  bhlshayai" 
iti  |  tan  abhi  prdsvasit  \  tasya  svasathad  Ishamanah  vitve  devah  adravan  \  maruto 
ha  enam  na\ajahuh  "prahara  bhagavo  jahi  vlrayasva"  ityeva  enam  etam  vaeham 
vadantah  upatishthanta  \  tad  etad  rishih  pasyatm  abhyanuvacha  |  .  .  .  .  iti  \  so  'ved 
"ime  vai  kila  me  sachivah  \  ime  ma  kamayanta  \  hanta  irnan  asm-inn  ukthe  abhajai" 
iti  |  "  Indra,  when  about  to  slay  Vrittra,  said  to,  all  the  gods  :  '  Follow  close  after 
me  and  support  me."  They  said, '  We  will.'  They  ran  forward  to  slay  Vrittra.  Vrittra 
considered :  '  They  are  running  forward  to  kill  me  :  come,  let  me  frighten  them.'  He 
accordingly  blew  a  blast  upon  them,  when  all  the  gods  ran  away  precipitately  from 
the  blast  of  his  breath.  But  the  Maruts  did  not  forsake  Indra.  They  stood  by  him, 
crying,  '  Smite,  o  god,  slay,  play  the  hero.'  Seeing  this?  thejishi  uttered  the  words 
of  R.V.  viii.  85,  7.  Indra  understood :  '  These  Maruts  are  my  allies.  They  love  me. 
Come,  I  shall  give  them  a  share  in  this  uktha.'  "  In  R.V.  i.  32,  14,  Indra  hims'e'lf  is 
said  to  have  become  frightened  as  if  at  the  approach  of  an  avenger(?),  after  he  had  slain 
Ahi,  and  to  have  crossed  ninety-nine  rivers,  and  the  aerial  spaces,  when  flying  like  a 
terrified  falcon  (aher  yataram  kam  apasyah  Indra  hridi  yat  tejaghrusho  bhir  agach- 
hat  |  nava  cha  yad  navatim  cha  sravantlh  syeno  na  bhito  ataro  rajamsi).  Compare 
Miiller's  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  p.  547.  The  As'vins  and  Sarasvati  are  also  said  to  have 
assisted  Indra  (R.V.  x.  131,  4,  5=Vaj.  Sanh.  x.  33,  34).  "*"  You  two,  As'vins,  lords 
of  splendour,  drinking  together  the  delightful  draught  (of  soma),  protected  Indra  in 
his  achievments  against  the  Asura  Namuchi.  5.  As  parents  a  son,  so  ye  two,  As'vins, 
by  your  wisdom  and  your  energy,  delivered  thee,  0  Indra.  When  thou,  0  magnifi- 
cent (Indra),  didst  drink  the  delightful  draught  (of  soma),  Sarasvati  waited  upon 
thee  with  her  powers."  (3.  Yuvam  suramam  Asvitia  Namuchav  asure  sacha  \  vipipana 


94  THE    INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY, 

• 

sutasya  asya  made  Ahim  Indro  jaghana) ;  ii.  19,  2  (asya  manddno  madhvo 
vajrahastah  ahim  Indro  arnovritam  vi  vrischaf) ',  vi.  47,  1,  2  ;  x.  112,  1 
(Indra  piba  pratikamam  sutasya  .  .  .  .  |  harshasva  hantave  sura  satru},), — 
Indra  hurries  off,  escoited  by  troops  of  Maruts,  and  sometimes  attended 
by  his  faithful  comrade  Vishnu  (i.  22,  19,  Indrasya  yujyo  sakha) ; 

s ubhaspafi  Indram  karmasu  avatam  |  5.  putram  iva  pitara  Asviria  ubha  Indra  avathuh 
kavyair  damsanabhih  \  yat  suramam  vi  qpibah  sachibhih  parasvafl  tva  maghavann 
abhishnak.)  A  story  is  told  by  the  commentator  on  the  Vaj.  Sanh.  x.  33,  to  explain 
these  lines.  Namuchi,  it  seems,  was  a  friend  of  Indra ;  and  taking  advantage  of  his 
friend's  confidence,  he  drank  up  Indra's  strength  along  with  a  draught  of  wine  and 
soma.  Indra  then  told  the  As'vins  and  Sarasvati  that  Namuchi  had  drunk  up  his 
strength.  The  As'vins  and  Sarasvati,  in  consequence,  gave  Indra  a  thunderbolt  in 
the  form  of  foam,  with  which  he  smote  off  the  head  of  Namuchi.  The  As'vins  then 
drank  the  soma,  mixed  with  blood  and  wine,  from  the  belly  of  Namuchi,  and  trans- 
ferred it  pure  to  Indra  ;  and  by  transferring  it  they  delivered  Indra.  The  story  is 
taken  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  xii.  7,  3,  1  ff.  (p.  934  Weber's  ed.)  and  is  the 
original  version  of  those  adduced  by  me  elsewhere  (Vol.  IV.  222  and  420).  As  given 
in  the  Brahmana,  it  runs  thus  :  "  The  Asura  Namuchi  carried  off  Indra's  strength 
(indriya),  the  essence  of  food,  and  the  draught  of  soma,  together  with  wine.  He 
(Indra)  hastened  to  the  As'vins  and  Sarasvati,  and  said,  '  I  have  sworn  to  Namuchi,  I 
will  neither  slay  thee  by  day  or  by  night ;  neither  with  club,  nor  with  bow  ;  neither 
with  the  palm  of  my  hand  (prithena),  nor  with  fist ;  neither  with  dry,  nor  with  moist ; 
and  he  has  carried  off  that  (strength,  etc.)  of  mine  ;  will  ye  recover  it  for  me  ? '  They 
answered :  Let^  us  have  a  share  in  it,  and  we  will  recover  it.'  Indra  replied :  '  It 
shall  be  common  to  us  all;  recover  it  therefore.'  Then  the  As'vins  and  Sarasvati 
anointed  the  thunderbolt  with  the  foam  of  the  waters,  saying,  '  It  is  neither  dry  nor 
moist."  "With  that  Indra  struck  off  the  head  of  Namuchi,  when  night  was  passing 
into  dawn,  and  the  sun  had  not  yet  risen,  when  (as  he  said)  '  it  was  neither  day  nor 
night.'  ....  When  his  head  had  been  cut  off,  the  soma  remained  mixed  with  blood ; 
and  they  loathed  it.  But  having  perceived  this  draught  of  the  two  somas,  according 
to  the  text,  '  King  Soma,  when  poured  out,  is  nectar,'  they  with  this  made  the  other 
mixed  fluid  palatable,  and  swallowed  it "  (Indrasya  indriyam  annasya  rasam 
somasya  bhakkham  suraya  asuro  Namuchir  aharat,  so  's'vinau  chi  sarasvatlm  cha 
upadhavat  "s'epano  smi  Nqpnuchaye  na  tva  diva  na  naktam  hanani  no,  dandena  na 
dhanvana  na  prithena  na  mushtina  na  sushkena  na  ardrena  atha  me  idam  aharshUt  \ 
idam'me  ajihtrshatha"  iti  \  te  'bruvann  "astu  no  'trapy  atha  aharama"  iti  \  "saha 
na  etad  atha  aharata "  ity  abravid  iti  \  tav  asvinau  cha  Sarasvati  cha  apam phenam 
vajram  asinchan  "na  sushko  na  ardrah"  iti  \  tena  Indro  Namucher  asurasya 
vyushtayam  ratrau  anudite  aditye  "  na  diva  na  naktam"  iti  sir  ah  udavasayat  \  .  . 
tasya,  slrsliams  chhinne  lohita-misrah  somo  'tishthat  \  tasmad  abibhatsanta  \  te  etad 
andhasor  vipanam  apasyan  "somo  raja  'mritam  sutah"  iti  tena  enam  svadayitva 
atmann  adadhata  \  See  also  S'atap.  Br.  xii.  7,  1,  10,  and  xii.  8,  3,  1,  quoted  by  the 
Commentator  on  Vaj.  S.  19,  12,  where  it  is  said  that  "the  gods  instituted  a  remedial 
sacrifice ;  the  As'vins  were  the  physicians,  and  so  also  was  Sarasvati  with  speech  : 
they  imparted  strength  to  Indra  "  devah  yajnam  atanvata  bheshajam  bhishaja  's'vina  \ 
vacha  sarasvatl  bhishag  Indraya  indriyani  dadhatah).  See  also  verses  15,  18,  34, 
80-83,  88-90,  93,  95 ;  bid  section  20,  56-69,  73-76,  90. 


AS  REPRESENTED  IN   THE   RIG-VEDA.  95 

• 

i.  85,  7m  (Vishnur  yad  ha  dvad  vrishanam  madachyutam ;  iv.  18,  11 
(quoted  above  p.  78  f.) ;  vi.  20,  2  (ahim  yad  vrittram  apo  vavrivdmsam 
harm  rijlshin  Vishnuna  sachdnah] ;  viii.  89,  12  (Sakhe  Vi&hno  vitardm 
vilcramasva  Dyaur  dehi  lokam  vajraya  vishkabhe  \  handva  vrittram  ityddi).™ 
vii.  99,  4,  5  (Indra-vislinu  driihhitdh  S'amlarasya  nava  puro  navatim 
vha  snathishtam},  to,,  encounter  the  hostile  powers  in  the  atmosphere 
who  malevolently  shut  up  the  watery  treasures  in  the  clouds.  These 
demons  of  drought,  called  by  a  variety  of  names,  as  Yrittra,176  Ahi, 

174  Benfey,  however,  refers  this  passage,  i.  85,  7,  not  to  Indra,  but  to  the  soma. 

175  Compare  i.  156,  5;  vi.  17,  11;  viii.  12,  27;  viii.  66,  10;  x.  113,  2,  in  which 
passages  (as  well  as  in  separate  hymns,   i.  155 ;   vi.  69),  Indra  and  Vishnu   are 
connected.    The  S'atapatha  Brahmana  has  the  following   story  about   Indra   and 
Vishnu,  v.  5,  5,  1  ff : — "  Formerly  Vrittra  had  within  him  all  the  Rik,  Yajush  and 
Saman  verses.     Indra  was  anxious  to  discharge  a  thunderbolt  at  him  (2),  and  said  to 
Vishnu :  '  I  will  shoot  a  thunderbolt  at  Vrittra  ;  follow  after  me.'     '  So  be  it/  said 
Vishnu,  '  I  will  follow  thee ;  smite  him.'    Indra  then  aimed  a  thunderbolt  at  Vrittra, 
who  was  alarmed  at  it,  and  said  (3),  '  I  have  this  (source  of)  strength  ;  let  me  give 
it  up  to  thee  ;  but  do  not  smite  me.'     So  he  gave  him  the  Yajush  verses.    Indra 
then  aimed  a  second  thunderbolt  at  him  (4),  when  he  said,  '  I  have  this  (source  of) 
strength ;  let  me  give  it  up  to  thee ;    but  do  not  smite  me.'     So  he  gave  the  Rik 
verses.     Indra  then  aimed  a  third  thunderbolt  at  him  (5),  when  he  said,  I  have  this 
(source  of)  strength ;  let  me  give  it  up  to  thee  ;  but  do  wot  smite  me.'     So  he  gave 

him  the  Saman  verses (7)  Indra  lifted  up  the  thunderbolt ;  Vishnu  followed 

him."     (Vrittre  ha  vai  idam  agre  sarvam  dsa  yad  richo  yad  yajumshi  yat  samani  \ 
tasmai   Indro  vajram  prdjihtrshat  \  2.  sa  ha    Vishnum   uvacha   "  Vrittrdya   vai 
vajram  praharishydmi   \  anu  ma  tishthasva"  iti  \  "tat ha"  iti  ha  Vishnur  uvacha 
"  anu  tva  sthdsye  prahara  "  iti  \  tasmai  Indro  vajram  udyayama  \  sa  udyatdd  vajrdd 
Vrittro  bibhayanchakara  \  3.  sa  ha  uvacha  "  asti  vai  idam  vlryam  \  tad  nu  te prayachh- 
ani  |  nia  tu  me  praharshir"  iti  \  tasmai  yajumshi  prayachhat  \  tasmai  dvitryam  lul- 
yayama  \   4.  sa  ha  uvacha  "  asti  vai  idam  vlryam  tad  nu  te  prayachhani  \  ma  tu  me 
praharshtr"  iti  \  tasmai  richah  prayachhat  \  tasmai  trifiyam  udyayama  \  5.  [sa  ha 
uvacha']  "asti  vai  idam  vlryam  \  tad  nu  te  prayachhani  \  nia  tu  me  praharshir  "  iti  \ 
tasmai  samani  prayachhat  |    7.  .  .  Indro  hi  vajram  ufyyachhad  Vishnur  anvatish- 
thata.}      There  is  a  similar  story  in  the  Taitt.  Sanh.  vi.  5,  1',  1.    Agni  is  in  several 
places  (i.  109,  5,  7,  8 ;  iii.  12,  4,  6  ;  x.  65,  2)  associated  with  Indra  as  a  thundferer,  a 
destroyer  of  Vrittra,  and  an  overthrower  of  cities.     Varuna,  too,  is  in  one  place 
(iv.  41,  4)  joined  with  Indra  as  a  thunderer. 

176  Vrittra's  mother  Dftnu  also  was,  along  with  her  son,  slain  by  Indra,  and  when 
slaughtered  lay  over  him,  like  a  cow  over  her  calf  (i.  32,  9,  nlchdvayah  abhavad  Vrittra- 
putrd  Indro  asyah  ava  vadhar  jabhara  \  uttard  sur  adharah puttrah  ds'id  Danuh  saye 
sahavatsd  na  dhenuh}.     Seven  Danus  are  mentioned  in  R.V.  x.  120,  6  (  =  Nirukta,  xi. 
21)  a  darshate  savasd  sapta  Ddnun  \  "  He  cleaves  by  his  force  the  seven  Danus." 
Roth,  in  his  illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  p.  150,  remarks  on  this  passage  :  "  Seven  is 
an  indefinite  number  applied  to  the  demons  of  the  air  and  clouds,  who  appear  under 
the  manifold  names  of  Namuchi,  Kuyava,  S'ushna,  S'ambara,  Varchin,  etc.,  the 
Danus  or  Danavas,  to  whom  in  i.  32,  9,  a  mother  called  Dtnu  is  assigned."     The 


96  THE   INDIAN   GODS    GENERALLY", 

S'ushna,  Namuchi,  Pipru,  S'ambara,  Tirana,  etc.,  etc.  (i.  121,  9,  10 ; 
ii.  14,  4  ff. ;  viii.  32,  2,  3),  armed,  on  their  side  also,  with  every 
variety  of  celestial  artillery  (i.  32,  13,  na  asmai  vidyud  na  tany&tuh 
sishedha  na  yum  miham  akirad  hrddunlm  cha},111  attempt,  but  in  vain, 
to  resist  the  onset  of  the  gods.179  Heaven  and  earth  quake  with 
affright  at  the  crash  of  Indra's  thunder,  i.  80,  \\\ime,chit  tava  man- 
yave  vepete  bhiyasd  mahl  \  yad  Indra  vajrinn  ojasd  Vrittram  marutvdn 
avadhlh  \  14.  abhishtane  te  adrivo  yat  sthdh  jagdt  cha  rejate);  ii.  11,  9 
(arejetdm  rodasl  bhiydne  kanikradato  vrishno  asya  vajrdt  \  10.  aroravld 
vrishno  asya  vajrah) ;  vi.  17,  9  (adha  dyaus  chit  te  apa  sd  nu  vafrdd  dvitd 
'namad  bhiyasd  svasya  manyoh],  and  even  Tvashtri  himself,  who  forged 
the  bolts,  trembles  at  the  manifestation  of  their  wielder's  anger,  i.  80, 
14  (Tvashfd  chit  tava,  manyave  Indra  vevijyate  bhiyd}.  The  enemies  of 
Indra  are  speedily  pierced  and  shattered  by  the  discharge  of  his  iron 
shafts,  i.  32,  5  (ahan  Vrittram  vrittrataram  vyamsam  Indro  vajrena  mahatd 
vadhena  \  skandhdmsiva  kuiisena  vivriknd  ahih  sayate  upaprik  prithivydh\ 
i.  57,  6;  i.  61,  10;  ii.  19,  3;  y..  89,  7  (jaghdna  Vrittram  svadhitir 
vaneva],  and  even  by  their  very  sound,  vi.  27,  4  (etat  tyat  te  indriyam 
acheti  yendvadhlr  varasfyhasya  ieshah  \  vajrasya  yat  te  nihatasya  sushmdt 
svandt  chid  Indra  paramo  daddra);  viii.  6,  13  (yad  asya  manyur  adhva- 
nld  vi  vrittram  parvaso  rujan  \  apah  samudram  airayat}.  The  waters, 
released  from  their  imprisonment,  descend  in  torrents  to  the  earth,  fill 
all  the  rivers,  and  roll  along  to  the  ocean,  i.  32,  2  (vdsrdh  iva  dhenavah 
syandamdndh  anjah  samudram  uva  jagmur  dpah  \  12.  avdsrijah  sarttave 
sapta  sindhun} ;  i.  57,  6;  i.  61,  10;  i.  103,  2  (vajrena  hatvd  nir  apah 
sasarjd] ;  iu  11,  2;  ii.  12,  12;  ii.  14,  2;  ii.  15,  3  (vajrena  khdni 
atrinad'  nadlndm) ;  ii.  19,  3  (Indro  arno  apdm  prairayad  Ahihd  'chha 
samudram};  iii.  32^  6;  iv.  17,  1 ;  v.  32,  1  (adardar  utsam  asrijo  vi 
khdm  tvam  arnavdn  badbadhdndn  aramndh  \  mahdntam  Indra  parvatam 
vi  yad  vah  srijo  vi  dhdrdh  ava  Ddnavam  han) ;  vi.  30,  4 ;  viii.  65,  3 ; 

S'atap.  Br.  i.  6,  4,  18,  says  that  Indra  is  the  sun  and  Vrittra  the  moon  (tad  vai  esha, 
eva  Indro  yah  esha  tapati  \  atha  esha  eva  vrittro  yat  chandramah) . 

177  Sayana  understands ( this  line  of  the  lightnings,   etc.,  fashioned  by  Vrittra's 
magical  power  to  destroy  Indra  (Indram  nisheddhuih  Vrittro  yan  vidyud-adin  mayaya 
nirmitavan  te  sarve  'py  enam  nisheddhum  asakta/i). 

178  Vrittra  is  said,  in  ii.  30,  3  (according  to  Sayana's  explanation  of  the  line),  to 
have  rushed  upon  Indra,  clothed  in  a  cloud,  but  to  have  been  overcome  (miham 
vasanah  upa  hi  1m  adudrot}. 


INDRA'S   COMBATS   WITH   THE   CLOUD    DEMONS.  97 

• 

x.  133,  2.  The  gloom  which  had  overspread  the  sky  is  dispersed,  and 
the  sun  is  restored  to  his  position  in  the  heavens  (i.  32,  4  ;  i.  51,  4, 
Vfittram  yad  Indra  savasd  avadhlr  Ahim  ad  it  suryam  divi  drohayo 
drise) ; 179  i.  52,  8  (dyachhathdh  bdhvor  vajram  dyasam  adhdrayo  dim  d 
suryam  drise} ;  ii.  19,  3.  Constant  allusions  to  these  elemental  con- 
flicts occur  in*  nearly  every  part  of  the  Rig-veda  (i.  4,  8 ;  i.  32,  1  ff. ; 
i.  52,  2  ff. ;  i.  54,  4  8. ;  i.  80,  If.;  i.  103,  2  ff. ;  ii.  11,  5  ff.  ;  v.  32, 
1  ff. ;  x.  89,  7;  x.  113,  6),  and  the  descriptions  are  sometimes  em- 
bellished with  a  certain  variety  of  imagery.  The  clouds  are  repre- 
sented as  mountains,  or  as  cities  or  fortresses  of  the  Asuras,  ii.  14,  6 
(yah  satam  S'amlarasya  puro  bibheda  asmand  iva  purvlh} ;  viii.  17,  14 
(bhettd  purdih  sasvatlndm) ;  viii.  87,  6  (tvam  hi  Sasvatlndm  Indra  darttd 
purdm  asi),  which  are  variously  characterized  as  the  autumnal  (purah 
sdradlh,  i.  131,  4 ;  vi.  20,  10),  the  moving  (puram  charishnvam,  viii.  1, 
28),  and  the  iron  (dyasik;  ii.  20,  8)  or  stone-built  (iv.  30,  20,  satam 
asmanmaylndm  purdm  Indro  vydsyat  \  Divoddsdya  ddsushe) lso  cities  of 
the  Asuras  (or  atmospheric  demons), "which  Indra  overthrows  (i.  51,5; 
i.  63,  7;  i.  103,  3;  i.  130,  7;  i.  174,  8;  ii.  19,  6;  ii.  20,  7;  iii.  12, 
6;  iv.  26,  3;  iv.  30,  13;  viii.  82,  2;  x.  89,  7).  He  casts  down  his 
enemies  when  he  discovers  them  on  the  aerial  mountains  (i.  32,  2, 
ahann.  Ahim  parvate  sisriydnam)  ;  i.  130,  7  (Atithigvdya  S'ambararh 
girer  tigro  avdtiraf) ;  ii.  12,  11  (Yah  S'amlaram  parvateshu  kshiyantam 
chatvdrimsydm,  saradi  anvavindaf) ;  iv.  30,  14  (uta  ddsam  kaulitaram 
Irihatah  parvatdd  adhi  \  avdhann  Indrah  S'amlaram}  ;  vi.  26,  5 ;  or 
hurls  them  back  when  they  attempt  to  scale  the  heavens  (ii.  12,  12 
yo  Rauhinam  asphurad  vajra-bdhur  dydm  drohantam};  viii.  i4,  14  (mdyd- 
bhir  utsisripsatah  Indro  dydm  drurukshatah  \*ava  dasyun  adhunuthdh]. 
One  of  them  he  crushes  under  his  foot,  1,  51,  6  (Arbudam  ni  tyamlh 
padd\  or  pierces  with  ice,  viii.  32,  26  (himena  avidhyad  Arbudam). 
He  strikes  off  the  head  of  Namuchi  with  the  foam  of  the  waters,181 

179  Sayana  understands  the  last  words  to  mean  that  Indra  freed  the  sun  which  had 
been  hidden  hy  Vrittra  (Vrittrena  arritam  suryam  tasmad  vrittrad  amumuchah}.    In 
i.  32,  4,  and  ii.  19,  3,  Indra  is  said  to  have  generated  iShe  sun ;  which  may  refer  to 
an  actual  creation,  and  not  to  a  mere  bringing  into  view.     In  x.  89,  2,  Indra  seems 
to  be  identified  with  the  sun  (so,  suryah),  and  to  have  destroyed  the  black  darkness  by 
his  light  (krishna  tamam  si  tvishyajaghana). 

180  Possibly  these  may  be  ordinary  terrestrial  cities;  and  the  same  may  be  the  case 
in  regard  to  the  cities  alluded  to  in  some  of  the  texts  next  fo  be  cited. 

181  See  above,  in  a  preceding  note. 

7 


98  INDRA' S   COMBATS   WITH   THE   CLOUD    DEMONS. 

viii.  14,  13  (apdm  phenena  namucheh  sir  ah  Indra  udavartayaK).  One  of 
his  opponents,  Urana,  is  described  as  a  monster,  with  ninety-nine  arms, 
ii.  14,  4  (yah  Uranafh  jaghdna  nava  chakhvamsam  navatim  cha  bahun)  ; 
and  another  as  having  three  heads  and  six  eyes,  x.  99,  6  (sa  id  dasam 
tuviravam  patir  dan  shalaltsham  tri&lrshdnam  damanyat}. 

The  growth  of  much  of  the  imagery  thus  described  is  perfectly 
natural,  and  easily  intelligible,  particularly  to  persons  who  have  lived 
in  India,  and  witnessed  the  phenomena  of  the  seasons  in  that  country. 
At  the  close  of  the  long  hot  weather,  when  every  one  is  longing  for 
rain  to  moisten  the  earth  and  cool  the  atmosphere,  it  is  often  extremely 
tantalizing  to  see  the  clouds  collecting  and  floating  across  the  sky  day 
after  day  without  discharging  their  contents.182  And  in  the  early  ages 
when  the  Vedic  hymns  were  composed,  it  was  an  idea  quite  in  conso- 
nance with  the  other  general  conceptions  which  their  authors  enter- 
tained, to  imagine  that  some  malignant  influence  was  at  work  in  the 
atmosphere  to  prevent  the  fall  of  the  showers,  of  which  their  parched 
fields  stood  so  much  in  need.  It  was  but  a  step  further  to  personify 
both  this  hostile  powqr  and  the  beneficent  agency  by  which  it  was  at 
length  overcome.  Indra  is  thus  at  once  a  terrible  warrior  and  a 
gracious  friend,  a  god  whose  shafts  deal  destruction  to  his  enemies, 
while  they  bring  deliverance  and  prosperity  to  his  worshippers..  The 
phenomena  of  thunder  and  lightning  almost  inevitably  suggest  the 
idea  of  a  conflict  between  opposing  forces ;  even  we  ourselves,  in  pur 
more  prosaic  age,  often  speak  of  the  war  or  strife  of  the  elements.  The 
other  appearances  of  the  sky,  too,  would  afford  abundant  materials  for 
poetical  imagery.  The  worshipper  would  at  one  time  transform  the 
fantastic  shapes  of  the  clouds  into  the  chariots 153  and  horses  of  his  god, 
and  at  another  time  would  seem  to  perceive  in  their  piled-up  masses 
the  cities  and  castles  which  he  was  advancing  to  overthrow. 

(5}  Indra's  greatness. 

In  numerous  places  of  the  Big-veda,  the  highest  divine  functions 
and  attributes  are  ascribed  to  Indra.  A  collection  of  the  most  striking 

is?  jn  viij.  6(  1,  Indra  is  compared  to,  and  therefore  distinguished  from,  Parjanya, 
the  rain-god  (niahdn  Indro  yah  o/asa  Parjanyo  vrishtiman  iva  \  stomair  Vatsasya 
vavridhe).  In  viii.  82,  1,  4,  he  is  identified  with  Surya,  the  Sun. 

183  Compare  Psalm  104,  3;  Isaiah  19,  1 ;  Daniel  7,  13;  Matth.  24,  30;  26,  64; 
Habakkuk  3,  8 ;  Breal,  Hercule  et  Cacus,  171  f. 


INDKA'S    GREATNESS.  t          99 

of  these  passages  will  be  found  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  85-94. 
I  subjoin  some  additional  texts : 

*i.  61,  14.  Asya  id  u  bhiyd  girayas  cha  drilhdh  dydvd  cha  bhuma 
janmhas  tujete  \  "Through  fear  of  him  when  he  is  born,  the  stable 
mountains,  and  heaven  and  earth,  are  agitated." 

i.  100,  1.  t  .  .  'maho  divah  prithivyds  cha,  samrdt  |  .  .  .  .  15.  Na 
yasya  devdh  devatd^na  marttdh  dpas  chana  savaso  antam  dpuh  \  "The 
monarch  of  the  great  heaven  and  of  the  earth  .  .  .  .  15.  of  whose  might 
neither  gods  by  their  divine  insight,  nor  men,  nor  waters  have  attained 
the  limit."184 

i.  101,  5.  To  visvasya  jagatah  prdnatas  patih  \  "He  (Indra)  who  is 
the  lord  of  the  whole  moving  and  breathing  (world),"  etc. 

i.  165,  9.  Anuttam  d  te  maghavan  naJcir  nu  na  tvdvdn  asti  devatd 
vtddnah  \  najdyamdno  nasate  na  jdto  ydni  karishyd  Icrinuhi  pravriddha  \ 
"  There  is  nothing  unconquered  by  thee  :  no  one  like  thee  is  known 
among  the  gods.  No  one  to  be  born,  or  yet  born,  can  rival  thee.  Do, 
great  god,  whatever  thou  wiliest  do.1"  (Compare  iv.  18,  4.) 

i.  173,  6.  Pro,  yad  itthd  mahind  nribhyo  asti  aram  rodasl  Icakshye  na 
asmai  \  "  Since  Indra  is  so  superior  to  men,  heaven  an^l  earth  do  not 
suffice  for  his  girdle,"  etc. 

ii.  J.7,  5.  Sa  prdchindn  parvatan  drimJiad  ojasd  adharachmam  akarod 
apdm  apah  \  adhdrayat  prithivim  visvadhdyasam  astabhndd  mdyayd 
dydm  avasrasah  |  "  He  has  settled  the  ancient  mountains  by  his  might; 
he  has  directed  downwards  the  action  of  the  waters.  He  has  supported 
the  earth,  the  universal  nurse.  By  his  skill  he  has  propped  up  the 
sky  from  falling."  • 

iii.  30,  5  (quoted  above,  p.  30).  "When  <thou^  0  Maghavan,  didst 
grasp  even  these  two  boundless  worlds,  they  were  but  a  handful  to 
thee." 185 

iii.  34,  2.  Indra  ksTiitlndm  asi  manushlndm  visdm  daivlndm  asi  pur- 
vaydvd  \  "Indra,  thou  art  the  leader  of  the  human  races,  and  of  the 
divine  people.  7.  Yudhendro  mahnd  varivas  chalcdra  develhyah  \  "In 
battle  and  by  his  power  he  has  acquired  wealth  for  the  gods." 

iii.  46,  2.  Eko  msvasya  Ihuvanasya  rdjd  \  3.  Pra  mdtrdlhih  riricJie 
rochamdnah  pra  devebhir  visvato  apratltah  \  pra  majmand  divah  Indrah 

184  See  Benfey's  Translation  in  Orient  and  Occident  ii.  518* 
ws  Compare  Isaiah  xl,  12. 


100  INDRA' S   GREATNESS. 

prithivydh  pra  uror  maho  antarikshdd  rijuhl  \  "Thou,  who  alone  art 

the  king  of  the  whole  world,  etc 3.  Indra  luminous,  has 

surpassed  all  measures;  in  every  respect  unequalled,  he  has  surpassed 
the  gods ;  the  impetuous  deity  has  surpassed  in  greatness  the  heaven 
and  the  earth,  and  the  broad  and  vast  atmosphere." 

iv.  17,  2.  Tava  tvisho  janiman  rejata  Dyauh  rejafi  Bh&mir  Ihiyasd 
svasya  manyoh  \  "  At  the  birth  of  thae,  the  glorious  one,  the  heaven 
trembled,  and  the  earth,  through  fear  of  thy  wrath,"  etc.  (Compare 
iv.  22,  3,  4). 

iv.  18,  4.  Nahi  nu  asya  pratimdnam  asti  antarjdteshu  uta  yejanitvdh  \ 
"He  has  no  parallel  among  those  born  or  who  are  to  be  born." 

v.  30,  5.  Paro  yat  tvam  paramah  djanishthdh  pardvati  srutyam  ndma 
lilhrat  \  atas  chid  Indrdd  alhayanta  devdh  \  "  When  thou  wert  born, 
the  highest  and  supreme,  bearing  a  name  renowned  afar,  the  gods  were 
then  afraid  of  Indra,"  etc.^ 

v.  42,  6.  Marutvato  apratitasya  jishnor  ajuryatah  pra  Iravdma  kri- 
tdni  \  na  te  purve  maghavan  no,  apardso  na  vlryam  nutanah  kai  chana 
dpa  |  "  Let  us  declare  the  deeds  of  the  unrivalled,  victorious,  undecay- 
ing  god,  who  £s  attended  by  the  Maruts.  Neither  have  former  nor 
later  (beings),  nor  has  any  recent  (being)  attained  to  thy  valour."  196 

vi.  24,  8.  Na  vilave  namate  na  sthirdya  na  sardhate  dasyujiitdya 
stavdn  |  ajrdh  Indrasya  girayas  chid  rishvah  gamlhire  chid  bhavati 
gddham  asmai  \  "When  lauded,  he  does  not  bow  before  the  strong, 
nor  the  firm,  nor  the  presumptuous,  impelled  by  the  Dasyu.  Moun- 
tains, though  lofty,  are  plains  to  Indra,  and  in  that  which  is  deep  he 
finds  a  bottom';"  Compare  viii.  82,  10. 

vi.  30,  1,  quoted  above,  n.  30  f.  "  Indra  has  surpassed  the  heaven  and 
the  earth.  The  two  worlds  are  but  equal  to  the  half  of  him."  (Comp. 
x.  119,  7.) 

vi.  30,  5.  Rdjd  'lhavo  jagatas  charshanlndm  sdkam  suryam  janayan 
dydm  mhdsam  \  "  Thou  hast  become  the  king  of  things  moving,  and  of 
men,  generating  at  once  the  Sun,  the  Heaven,  the  Dawn."  (Compare 
iii.  49,  4.) 

viii.  6,  15.  Na  dydvah  Indram  ojasd  na  antarikshuni  vajrinam  \  na 

186  in  viii.  70  3,  it  is  said  that  Indra,  like  a  terrific  bull,  cannot  be  stopped  either 
by  gods  or  men  when  he  wishes  to  be  generous  (na  tva  sura  devah  na  marttaso  ditsan~ 
tarn  \  bhimam  na  gam  varayante). 


INDRA'S   GREATNESS.  101 

vi  vyachanta  ITiumayah  \  "Neither  heavens,  nor  atmospheres,  nor 
earths,  have  equalled  Indra  the  thunderer  in  might." 

viii.  12,  30.  Yadd  suryam  amum  divi  sukram  jyotir  adJidrayah  \  ad 
it  te  visvd  Ihuvandni  yemire  \  "When  thou  (Indra)  didst  place  yonder 
sun  a  brilliant  light  in  the  sky,  then  all  worlds  submitted  to  thee." 
(Compare  vi.  30,  2.) 

viii.  14,  9.  Indrefia  rochand  di^o  drilhdni  drimhitdni  cha  \  sthirdni 
na  pardnude  \  "By  Indra  the  lights  of  the  sky  have  been  fixed  and 
established.  Those  which  are  established  he  has  not  removed." 

viii.  15,  2.  Tasya  dvibarhaso  brihat  saho  dadhdra  rodasl  \  girln  ajrdn 
apah  svar  vrishatvand  \  "Of  which  mighty  god  the  great  vigour  sup- 
ported the  two  worlds,  the  mountains,  plains,  waters,  and  heavens." 

viii.  51.  7.  Visve  te  Indra  viryam  devdh  anu  kratum  daduh  \  "All 
the  gods,  Indra,  yield  to  thee  in  vigour  and  strength." 

viii.  78,  2.  Devds  te  Indra  saJchydya  yemire  \  "  The  gods,  o  Indra, 
sought  after  thy  friendship."  (Compare  viii.  87,  3.) 

viii.  82,  5.  Tad  vd  pravriddha  satpate  "na  marai"  iti  manyase  \ 
uto  tat  satyam  it  tava  \  "  That  which  thou,  o  powerful  lord  of  the 
good,  expectest,  'I  shall  not  die,'  proves  true1."  (Compare  x.  86,  11, 
quoted  above,  p.  82.) 

viii.  85,  4.  Manye  tvd  yayniyam  yajniydndm  manye  tvd  chyavanam 
achyutdndm  \  manye  tvd  satvandm  Indra  Icetum  manye  tvd  vrishabham 
charshamndm  \  ....  6.  Tarn  u  shtavdma  yah  imd  jdjdna  visvd  jdtdni 
avardni  asmdt  |  .  .  .  .  9.  Anayudhdso*  asurdh  adevds  chakrena  tan  apa 
vapa  rijishin  \  "  I  regard  thee,  Indra,  as  the  most  adorable  of  the 
adorable,  the  caster  down  of  the  unshaken,187  the  most,  distinguished 

of  living  things,  the  chief  of  beings •  f^.  Let  us  praise  this  Indra 

who  produced  these  (worlds) :  all  beings  are  inferior  (or  subsequent)  to 

him 9.  The  Asuras  are  without  weapons  and  are  no   gods : 

sweep  them  away  with  thy  wheel."  (Compare  vi.  18,  10),  where  he  is 
said  to  consume  the  Rakshases  with  his  bolt  as  fire  a  dry  forest : 
Agnir  na  sushkam  vanam  Indra  netl  raksho  ni  dhakshi  asanir  na  bhlmd}. ' 

viii.  86,  14.  Tvad  visvdni  bhuvandni  vajrin*dydvd  rejete  prithivl  cha 
bhlshd  |  "All  worlds,  thunderer,  both  heaven  and  earth,  tremble 
through  fear  of  thee." 

x.  44,  8.   Girln   ajrdn  rejamdndn  adhdrayad  Dyauh  Tcrandad  anta- 
187  The  Maruts  are  said  to  have  the  same  power  (i.  64,  3). 


102  INDRA'S    GREATNESS. 

rikshdni  kopayat  \  "  He  sustained  the  quaking  mountains  and  plains : 
the  sky  resounded;  he  shook  the  atmosphere,"  etc.  (Compare  ii.  12,  2.) 

x.  54,  1.  Tarn  su  te  klrttim  maghavan  mahitvd  yat  tvd  bhtte  rodasl 
ahvayetdm  \  prdvo  devdn  ....  2 .  Yad  acharas  tanvd  vavridhdno  baltini 
Indra  prabruvdno  janeshu  \  mdyd  it  sd  te  ydni  yuddhdni  dhur  na  adya 
satrum  na  pur  a  vivitse  \  3.  Kah  u  nu  te  mahimartah  s&masya  asmat 
purve  rishayo  antam  apuh  \  yad  matavflm  cha  pitaram  cha  sdkam  ajana- 
yathds  tanvd  h  svdydh  I  6.  Yo  adadhdj  jyotishi  jyotir  antar  yo  asrijad 
madhund  sam  madhuni  \  "  (I  celebrate),  Maghavan,  thy  glory  in  that 
through  thy  greatness  the  terrified  worlds  invoked  thee.  Thou  didst 

deliver  the  gods,  etc 2.  When  thou  didst  march  on  increasing 

in  thy  magnitude,  proclaiming  thy  strength  amongst  men,  thy  combats 
which  they  describe  were  (the  proofs  of)  thy  power ;  neither  now  nor 
before  dost  thou  know  of  any  enemy.  3.  Which  of  all  the  seers  before 
us  have  found  out  the  end  of  all  thy  greatness  ?  seeing  that  thou  didst 
produce  at  once  the  father  and  the  mother  (heaven  and  earth)188  from 
thine  own  body.  6.  He  placed  light  in  light,  and  imparted  to  sweet 
things  their  sweetness." 

x.  89,  4.  Yo  aksheneva  'chakriyd  iachlbhir  vishvak  tastamlha  prithwlm 
uta  dydm  \  1 0.  Indro  divah  Indrah  ise  prithivydh  Indro  apdm  Indrah  it 
parvatdndm  \  "  (Indra)  who  by  his  powers  holds  asunder  Heaven  and 
Earth,  as  the  two  wheels  of  a  charidt  are  kept  apart  by  the  axle. 
Indra  rules  over  the  sky,  Indra  rules  over  the  earth,  Indra  rules 
over  the  waters,  and  Indra  rules  over  the  mountains,"  etc. 

x.  102,  12.  Tvam  visvasya  jagatas  chakshur  Indrdsi  chakshmhah  \ 
"  Thou,  Indraj  art  the  eye  of  all  moving  things  that  see."  , 

x.  138,  6.  Mdsdm  vid^dnam  adadhdh  adhi  dyavi  tvayd  vibhinnam 
lharatif$radhim  pitd  \  "Thou  (Indra)  hast  ordained  the  (course  of  the) 
months  in  the  heaven  :  the  father  (the  sky)  has  a  circumference  divided 
by  thee." 

In  some  places  (iv.  19,  2  ;  iv.  21,  10)  Indra  is  called  samrdt,  or  uui- 
'versal  monarch,  in  other  places  (iii.  46,  1 ;  iii.  49,  2 ;  vii.  82,  2  ;  viii. 
12,  14)  svardt,  a  self-dependent  sovereign.  In  viii.  6,  41,  he  is 
called  "  an  ancient  rishi,  ruling  alone  by  his  might "  (rishir  hi  pur- 
vajah  asi  ekah  isdnah  ojasd"].  In  i.  174,  1 ;  viii.  79,  6,  he  is  designated 
as  asura,  "  the  divine." 

188  See  above  p.  30. 


INDRA'S   RELATIONS   WITH   HIS   WORSHIPPERS.  103 

The  preceding  passages  afford  a  fair  specimen  of  the  language  in 
which  Indra  is  most  commonly  celebrated  in  the  hymns.  It  will  be 
observed  that  the  attributes  which  are  ascribed  to  him  are  chiefly  those 
of  physical  superiority,  and  of  dominion  over  the  external  world.  In 
fact  he  is  not  generally  represented  as  possessing  the  spiritual  elevation 
and  moral  grandeur  with  which  Varuna  is  so  often  invested. 

(6)  Indra's  relations  with  his  worshippers. 

There  are,  however,  many  passages  in  which  Indra's  close  relations 
with  his  worshippers  are  described,  and  a  few  in  which  an  ethical 
character  is  attributed  to  him.  Faith  in  him  is  confessed,  or  enjoined 
in  the  following  texts : 

i.  55,  5.  Adha  chana  srad  dadhati  tvishlmate  Indrdya  vajram  nigha- 
nighnate  vadham  \  "  Men  have  faith  in  the  fiery  Indra  when  he  hurls 
again  and  again  his  destroying  thunderbolt." 

i.  102,  2.  Asme  suryd-chandramasd  abhicTiakshe  Sraddhe  Team  Indra 
charato  mtarturam  \  "  Sun  and  mosn  move  alternately,  o  Indra,  that 
we  may  behold,  and  have  faith." 

i.  103,  5.  Tad  asya  idam  pasyata  bhuri  pushtam  £rad  Indrasya  dhat- 
tana  vlrydya  \  "  Behold  this  his  great  abundance,  and  have  faith  in  the 
prowess  of  Indra." 

i.  104,  6.  Md  antardm  bhuj'am  d  ririsho  nah  sraddhitam  te  mahate 
indriydya  \  7.  Adha  manye  srat  te  asmai  adhdyi  vrishd  chodasva  mahate 
dhandya  \  "6.  Do  not  injure  our  fdture  production :  we  have  put 
faith  in  thy  great  power.  7.  I  surely  believe  that  faith  has  been 
reposed  in  thee  :  vigorous  god,  advance  us  to  great  wealth." 

i.  108,  6.  Yad  abravam  prathamam  vdm  vrindno  ayam  somo  asurair 
no  vihavyah  \  tdm  satydm  sraddhdm  abhi  d  hi  ydtam  atha  somasya  piba- 
tam  sutasya  \  "  Since  I  said  at  first,  when  supplicating  you  twain 
(Indra  and  Agni)  '  this  soma  is  to  be  offered  by  us  for 189  the  divine 
beings ; '  come  now,  in  consideration  of  this  true  faith,  and  drink  the 
poured-out  soma."  • 

In  vi.  28,  5,  the  poet  says :  Imdh  ydh  gavah  sa  jandsah  Indrah 
ichhdmi  id  hridd  manasd  chid  Indram  \  "  These  cows,  o  men,  are 
Indra  :  I  desire  Indra  with  my  heart  and  soul." 

In  ix.  113,  2,  truth,  faith,  and  austere-fervour  are  enjoined  on  the 
189  see  Beafey's  Translation  and  note,  Orient  und  Occident,  iii.  142. 


104  INDRA'S    RELATIONS   WITH   HIS   WORSHIPPERS. 

worshipper :  ritavd&ena  satyena  iraddhayd  tapasd  sutah  Indrdya  Indo 
parisrava  \  "  Poured  out  with  holy  words,  with  truth,  with  faith,  with 
austere-fervour,  o  Soma,  flow  for  Indra." 

x.  160,  3.  Yah  usata  manasd  somam  asmai  sarvahridd  devakdmah 
sunoti  |  na  gdh  Indras  tasya  parddaddti  ityddi  \  "Indra  does  not 
abandon  the  cattle  of  the  man  who  loves  the  gods,  a"ad  with  a  longing 
soul  and  with  all  his  heart  pours  out  Jibations  of  soina-juice." 

And  the  reality  of  his  existence  and  power  is  asserted  in  opposition 
to  faithless  or  sceptical  doubts  in  the  following : 

ii.  12,  5.  Yam  sma  prichanti  kuha  seti  ghoram  uta  im  dhur  na  esho 
asti  Hi  enam  \  so  aryah  pushtlr  vijah  iva  19°  dmindti  srad  asmai  dhatta 
sa  jandsah  Indrah  \  "That  dreadful  being,  of  whom  they  ask  'where 
is  he,'  and  of  whom  they  say  '  he  is  not '  [or,  '  this  is  not  he '],  he 
carries  away  the  wealth  of  the  foe,  as  a  gamester  the  stakes ;  put  faith 
in  him,  he,  o  men,  is  Indra." 

vi.  18,  3.  Asti  svid  nu  viryam  tat  te  Indra  na  svid  asti  tad  rituthd  vi 
vochah  |  4.  Sad  id  hi  te  iuvijatasyof  manye  sahah  sahishtha  \  "3.  Does 
that  prowess  belong  to  thee,  Indra,  or  does  it  not?  tell  us  truly.  4. 
Thy  strength,  o  thou  str6ngest  of  beings,  who  art  great  by  nature,  is 
really  existing. 

viii.  89,  3.  Pro,  su  stomam  bharata  vdjayantah  Indrdya  satyam  yadi 
satyam  asti  \  " na  Indro  asti"  Hi  nemafou  tvah  alia  kah  im  dadarsa  kam 
abhi  stavdma  \  4.  ayam  asmi  jaritah  past/a  meha  visvd  jdtdni  dblii  asmi 
mahnd  \  "3.  Present  to  Indra  a 'hymn  soliciting  food,  a  true  hymn,  if 
he  truly  exists.  '  Indra  does  not  exist,'  says  some  one ;  '  who  has  seen 
him  ?  whom  shall  we  praise  ?'  4.  'I  am  here,  o  worshipper'  (exclaims 
Indra) ;  'behold  me  here.  &I  surpass  all  creatures  in  greatness.'  " 

Indra  is  the  friend,  and  even  the  brother,  of  his  present  worshippers, 
as  he  was  the  friend  of  their  forefathers,  ii.  18,  3  ;  ii.  20,  3 ;  iii.  53,  5 
(d  cha  ydhi  Indra  Ihrdtah,  "come,  brother  Indra  ") ;  iv.  17,  18 ;  iv.  23, 
6;  vi.  18,  (pratnam  sakhyam,  "ancient  friendship");  vi.  21,  5  (idd 
hi  te  vevishatah  purdjdh  pratndsah  dsuh  purukrit  sakhdyah,  "  for  now 
men  resort  to  thee  continually,  and  the  ancients  born  of  old  were  thy 
friends")191;  8  (tvam  hi  dpih,  pradivi  pitrindm  sasvad  labhutha  \ 

190  The  words  vijah  iva  are  explained  by  Sayana  as  =  ydvejakah  eva  san,  "  being  a 
vexer." 

191  See  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  221.     The  passage  is  differently  rendered  by 
Benfey,  Gloss,  to  S.  V.  p.  76,  col.  1. 


INDRA'S    RELATIONS    WITH   HIS  WORSHIPPERS.  105 

"For  thou  wast  always  a  friend  of  our  fathers");  vi.  45,  1,  7; 
vii.  21,  9;  viii.  4,  7;  viii.  45,  1  ff.,  16,  18;  viii.  50,  11;  viii.  57, 
11  '(Yasya  te  stddu  sakhyam  svddvl  pranltih  \  "Thou  whose  friend- 
ship is  sweet  and  sweet  thy  guidance");  viii.  81,  33;  viii.  82,  3; 

viii.   86,   7  ;   viii.   89,  2  ;    x.  22,   If.;    x.  23,  7  (ma,  Mr  nah  end 
•  • 

sakhyd  vi  yanshus  *tava  cha  Indra  Vimadasya  cha  risheh  \  "  Let  not 
these  friendly  relations  of  ours,  of  thee,  o  Indra,  and  the  rishi 
Vimada,  be  dissolved");  x.  42,  11  (Indrah purastdd  uta  madhyato  nah 
sakhd  sakhilhyo  varivah  krinotu  \  lt  May  Indra,  a  friend,  grant  riches 
to  us  his  friends  before  and  in  the  middle  ").  He  chooses  for  his  in- 
timate the  man  who  presents  offerings,  but  desires  no  friendship  with 
him  who  offers  no  libations  (x.  42,  4  :  Atra  yujam  krinute  yo  havishmdn 
na  asunvatd  sakhyam  vashti  Surah}.  He  is  reminded  that  he  has  friends 
while  his  adorers  are  friendless  (viii.  21,4:  Vayam  hi  tvd  landhuman- 
tam  abandhavo  viprdsah  Indra  yemima}.  He  is  not  only  a  friend,  but 
a  father,  and  the  most  fatherly  of  fathers  (iv.  17,  17:  Sakhd  pita 
pitritamah  pitrindm}.  As  such  he  is*  invoked  by  men  (x.  48,  1  :  Mum 
havante  pita-ram  na  jantavah  \  Compare  1,  104,  9,  and  vii.  32,  3,  26). 
He  is  both  father  and  mother  (viii.  87,  11  :  'Tvam  hi  nah  pita  vaso 
tvam  mdtd  satakrato  labhuvitha  \  compare  viii.  1,  6).  In  one  place 
(viii.  81,  32)  the  adoring  poet  exclaims  :  "Thou  art  ours  and  we 
are  thine"  (tvam  asmdkam  tava  smasi).  He  is  the  helper  of  the  poor 
(viii.  69,  3  :  radhra-chodanam)  ;  the  only  helper  to  whom  his  wor- 
shipper has  recourse  (ibid.  1 :  na  hi  any  am  bald  'karam  marditdram}. 
He  alone  among  the  gods  has  a  love  for  mortals  (vii.  23,  5  :  eko  devatrd 
dayase  hi  martydn],  and  is  their  helper  (i.  84,"  19  :  na  tvad*anyo  magha- 
vann  asti  marditd  Indra  Iravlmi  te  vachah  \  ,yiii.  55,  13  :  na  hi  tvad 
anyah  puruhuta  kaschana  maghavann  asti  marditd}  •  all  men  share  in 
his  benefits  (viii.  54,  7  :  yat  chid  hi  sasvatdm  asi  Indra  sddhdranas 
tvam}.  He  is  the  deliverer  and  the  advocate  (or  comforter)  of  his 
servants  (viii.  85,  20 :  sa  prdvitd  maghavd  no  'dhivaktti),  and  their 
strength  (vii.  31,  5:  tve  api  kratur  mama).  He  is  a  wall  of  defence 
(viii.  69,  7  :  Indra  drihyasva  pur  asi}.  His  frienfl  is  never  slain  or  con- 
quered (x.  152,  1  :  na  yasya  hanyate  sakhd  na  jlyate  kadd  chana}.m 

192  The  same  is  said  of  Mitra,  iii.  59,  2,  and  of  the  Manits,  v.  54,  7.  Compare  vii. 
20,  6;  vii.  32,  14 ;  viii.  16,  5  ;  riii.  52,  11.  In  viii.  69,  4,  he  is  prayed  to  guard 
his  worshipper's  chariot,  and  to  bring  it  forward  from  the  rear  into  the  van  (Indra 


106          INDRA'S    RELATIONS   WITH   HIS  WORSHIPPERS. 

His  powerful  arms  are  resorted  to  for  protection  (vi.  47,  8  :  rishvd  te 
Indra  sthavirasya  Idhu  upa  steydma  sarand  Irihanta).  He  is  invoked 
as  a  mighty  protector  and  deliverer  easy  to  be  entreated  (ibid,  i  1  : 
trdtdram  Indram  avitdram  Indram  have  have  suhavam  suram  Indram). 
The  worshippers  assume  that  Indra,  though  far  off,  is  not  afflicted  with 
deafness,  but  hears  distinctly  their  invocations  (viii.  45,  17  :  tita  tvd 
abadhiram  vayam  srutkarnam  santam  sitaye  \  durdd  iva  havdmahe).  His 
right  hand  is  grasped  by  suppliants  for  riches  (x.  47,  1 :  Jagrilhma 
te  dakshinam  Indra  hastam  vasuyavo  vasupate  vasundm).  The  loving 
praises  of  his  worshippers,  uttered  from  the  soul,  proceed  to  him  as 
messengers,  and  touch  his  heart  (x.  47,  7  :  vanlvano  mama  dutdsah 
Indram  stomds  charanti  sumatir  iydndh  \  hridispriso  manasd  vachyamd- 
ndh).  The  imploring  poet  with  his  hymn  seizes  the-  skirts  of  the 
god's  robe,  as  a  son  his  father's  (iii.  53,  2 :  pitur  na,  putrah  sicham 
drabhe  te  Indra  svddishthayd  gird  sachivah}.  He  is  clasped  by  the 
ardent  hymns  of  his  votaries  as  a  husband  is  embraced  by  his  loving 
wives  (i.  62,  11  :  patim  na  patntr  usatlr  usantam  sprisanti  tvd  iavq- 
sdvan  mamshdh  \  i.  186,  7:  tarn  Im  girojanayo  na  patnlh  surabhishta- 
mam  nardm  nasanta  \  x.  43,  1  :  achha  me  Indram  matayah  svarvidah 
sadhrlchlr  visvdh  usatlr  anushata  \  pari  shvajante  janayo  yatJid  patim 
maryam  sundhyum  maghavdnam  utaye  \  Comp.  ii.  16,  9).193  The  hymns 
run  to  him  and  lick  him,  as  cows  their  calves  (x.  119,  4  :  upa  md 
matir  asthita  vdsrd  putram  iva  priyam  \  i.  186,  7:  uta  nah  im  matayo 
asvayogdh  sisum  na  gdvas  tarunam  rihanti}.  He  is  entreated  not  to  be 
lazy  like  a  priest  (viii.  81,  30  :  mo  shu  brahmeva  tandrayur  bhava  vdjd- 
ndm  pate} ;  c,nd  not  to  allow  other  worshippers  to  arrest  his  horses 
when  conveying  him  to  »the  abode  of  the  suppliants  who  would  satisfy 
him  with  soma-libations,  but  to  overleap  the  bonds  by  which  all  other 
candidates  for  his  favour  seek  to  confine  him  as  fowlers  to  snare  a  bird, 
and  to  pass  quickly  by  them  as  he  would  over  a  barren  desert  (ii.  18, 
3  :  Mo  su  tvdm  attra  bahavo  hi  viprah  ni  riraman  yajamdndso  anye  \  iii. 
25,  5  :  md  te  harl  vrishand  vltaprishthd  ni  riraman  yajamdndso  anye  \ 


pra  no  ratham  ova  pas'chat  chit  santam  adrivah  \  purastad  enam  me  kridhi  \  compare 
verses  5  and  6).  See  ii.  27,  12. 

193  jn  vii_  104,  6,  the  worshipper  prays  that  his  hymn  may  cling  around  Indra 
and  Soma  as  a  girth  clasps  a  horse  (pari  vam  bhutu  visvatah  iyam  matih  kakshya 
's'veva  vajina). 


INDRA'S    RELATIONS    WITH    HIS   WORSHIPPERS.  107 

ati  dydhi  sasvato  vayam  te  arafh  sutebhih  krinavdma  somaih  \  iii.  45,  1 : 
d  mandrair  Indra  haribhir  ydhi  mayuraromabhih  \  md  tvd  kechin  ni 
yaman  vim  na  pdsinah  ati  dhanva  iva  tan  ihi  \  x.  160,  1  :  tlvrasya 
abhivayasah  asya  pdhi  sarvarathd  vi  harl  iha  muncha  \  Indra  md  tvd 
yajamdndsah  anye  ni  rlraman  fabhyam  ime  sutdsah).  He  is  the  king 
of  things  movitog,  of  men,  and  of  all  terrestrial  things ;  and  out  of  this 
abundance  he  bestows  wealth  on  tl*e  man  who  brings  oblations  to  him 
(vii.  27,  3  :  Indro  rdjd  jagatas  charshanlndm  adhi  kshami  vishurupam 
yad  asti  \  tato  daddti  ddsushe  vasuni  chodad  rddhah  upastutas  chid 
arvdTc],  Both  his  hands  are  full  of  riches  (vii.  37,  3  :  ubhd  te  purnd 
vasund  gabhasti).  He  is  a  magazine  replenished  with  wealth,  whom 
the  worshipper  urges  to  liberality  (x.  42,  2  :  kosam  na  purnam  vasund 
nirishtam  d  chydvaya  maghadeydya  suram).  Manifold  aids  shoot  out 
from  him  as  branches  from  a  tree  (vi.  24,  3 :  vrikshasya  nu  te  puru- 
huta  vaydh  vi  utayo  ruruhur  Indra  purvlh).  He  is  asked  to  shower 
satisfying  wealth  on  his  adorers,  as  a  man  with  a  hook  shakes  down 
ripe  fruit  from  a  tree  (iii.  45,  4 :  vriksham  pakvam  phalam  ankl  iva 
dhunuhi  Indra  sampdranam  vasu}.  Compare  ix.  97,  53.  Neither  gods 
nor  men  can  arrest  him  in  his  course  when  he  is  bent  on^liberality,  as 
a  terrific  bull  cannot  be  stopped,  viii.  70,  3  (na  hi  tvd  sura  devdh  na 
martdso  ditsantam  \  Ihlmam  na  gum  vdrayante).  Compare  viii.  33,  8, 
and  iv.  16,  14.  His  friendship  is  indestructible  :  he  is  prayed  to 
be  a  cow  to  the  man  who  desires  one,  and  a  horse  to  the  man  seek- 
ing a  horse  (vi.  45,  26 :  dundsam  sakhyam  tava  gaur  asi  vlra  gavyate  \ 
asvo  asvdyate  lhava}.  He  gives  wives  to  those  who  had  none  (v. 
31,  2:  amendpis  chij  janivatas  chakartha  \  iv.  17,  16 :  janiyanto  jani- 
ddm  akshitotim  d  chydvaydmah).  He  richly  rewards  his  faithful 
servants  and  adorers  (ii.  12,  6:  yo  radhrasya  choditd  yah  krisasya  yo 
brahmano  nddhamdnasya  klreh  \  14  :  yah  sunvantam  avati  yah  pachantam 
yah  samsantam  yah  sasamdnam  utl  \  ii.  19,  4:  so  apratlni  manave  pu- 
runi  Indro  ddsad  ddsushe  \  ii.  22,  3 :  data  rddhah  stuvate  kdmyam  vasu}. 
The  days  dawn  prosperously  on  the  man  who  says  "  come,  let  us  pour 
out  libations  to  Indra  "  (v.  37,  1  :  tasmai  amridhrdh  ushaso  vi  uchhdn 
yah  "  Indrdya  sunavdma  "  ity  aha}.  The  king  in  whose  house  the  god 
drinks  soma  mixed  with  milk  suffers  no  calamity,  marches  at  the  head 
of  his  hosts,  slays  his  enemy,  and  lives  tranquilly  at  home,  in  the  enjoy- 
ment of  happiness  (ibid.  4 :  na  sa  rdjd  vyathate  yasminn  Indras  tivram 


108  INDRA' S    RELATIONS  WITH    HIS  WORSHIPPERS. 

somam  pilati  gosakhdyam  \  a  satvanair  ajati  Jianti  vrittram  Tcsheti  ksMtlh 
sulhago  ndma  pushy  an  \  Compare  the  next  verse).  His  friend  is  hand- 
some, possesses  horses  and  cows,  rides  in  a  chariot,  and  enjoys  always 
a  life  of  opulence,  and  goes  radiant  into  the  assembly  (viii.  4,  9  :  asvl 
rathl  surupah  id  gomdn  id  Indra  te  saJchd^  \  svdtrabhdjd 194  vayasd  sacJiate 
sadd  chandro  ydti  sabhdm  wpa).  Indra  is  gladddhed  by  the  praises 
of  the  pious  man,  whether  learnedeor  unlearned  ,( viii.  50,  9:  avipro 
vd  yad  avidhad  vipro  vd  Indra  te  vachah  \  sa  pra  mandat  tvdyd. 
Compare  viii.  81,  12).  He  is  prayed  to  deliver  to-day,  to-morrow,  next 
day,  and  every  day,  and  both  by  day  and  night  (viii.  50,  17  :  adya 
adya  svah  £vah  Indra  trdsva  pare  cha  nah  \  msvd  cha  no  jaritrln  satpate 
aha  diva  naktam  cha  rakshishah  \  Compare  viii.  53,  6).  The  god  is,  how- 
ever, sometimes  naively  importuned  to  be  more  prompt  in  his  liberality. 
"  Gracious  are  thy  hands,  o  Indra  (the  poet  cries  in  iv.  21,  9),  beneficent 
thy  fingers,  bestowers  of  wealth  on  thy  worshipper ;  why,  then,  dost 
thou  sit  still  ?  "Why  dost  thou  not  gladden  us  ?  Why  dost  thou  not 
delight  in  giving?"  bhadrd  te  hdstd  sukritota  pdnl  prayantdrd  stuvate 
rddhah  Indra  \  kd  te  nishattih  kirn  u  no  tnamatsi  Mm  na  ud  ud  u  harshase 
ddtave  u).  Again  in  x.  42,  3,  he  is  asked  :  "  "Why  do  they  call  thee 
generous,  o  opulent  god  ?  Sharpen  me,  for  I  hear  thee  to  be  a  sharpener ; 
let  my  hymn  be  productive,  o  mighty  god ;  bring  to  us  good  fortune 
and  riches  "  (Jcim  anga  tvd  maghavan  bhojam  dhuh  sisllii  md  sisayam  tvd 
srinomi  \  apnasvatl  mama  dhlr  astu  sakra  vasuvidam  bhagam  Indra 
dlhara  nalj).  The  god  is  even  told  that  the  poet,  if  in  his  place,  and 
possessed  of  the  ample  resources  which  he  alone  commands,  would 
shew  himself  more  bountiful,  and  would  not  abandon  his  worshipper 
to  poverty,  but  would  $aily  lavish  on  him  cows  and  other  property 
(vii.  32,  18  :  yad  Indra  ydvatas  tvam  etdvad  aham  Islya  \  stotdram  id 
didhislieya  radavaso  na  pdpatvdya  rdslya  \  19.  S'iksheyam  in  maJiayate 
dive  dive  ray  ah  a  kuhachidvide  j195  viii.  14,  1.  Yad  Indra  aham  yatlid 

194  On  the  sense  assigned  by  the  Indian  writers  to  s'vatra  see  my  art.  on  the  inter- 
pretation of  the  Veda,  in  Jpurn.  R.A.S.  for  1866,  p.  378. 

195  These  verses,  with  the  entire  hymn  in  which  they  occur,  are  translated  by 
Prof.  Max  Miiller  in  his  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  p.  543  ff.     The  word  kuhachidvide  is  there 
rendered  "  to  whosoever  it  be,"  and  it  is  there  mentioned  in  a  note  *hat  "  according 
to  the  commentator  kuhachidvid  means  '  wherever  he  be.'  "     Prof.  Miiller  adds  :   it 
may  perhaps  mean  the  ignorant.     Prof.  Roth  follows  Sayana  in  his  explanation.     A 
similar  appeal  is  made  to  Agni  in  viii.  19,  25  :  yad  Agne  martyas  tvam  syam  aham 


INDRA'S    RELATIONS   WITH    HIS   WORSHIPPERS.  109 

tvam  islya  vasvah  ekah  it  \  stotd  me  goshakha  sydt  \  siksheyam  asmai 
ditseyam  sachipate  mamshine  \  yad  aham  gopatih  sydm). 

Indra  supplies  the  place  of  armour,  and  is  a  champion  who  fights  in 
the  van,  vii.  31,  6  (tvam  varma  saprathah  puroyodhas  cha  vrittrahan  \ 
tvayd  pratilruve  yuja).  He  is  supplicated  for  all  sorts  of  temporal 
blessings,  as  \realtH  in  cows,  horses,  chariots,  health,  understanding, 
sweetness  of  voice  (svddmdnam  vdshah},  prosperous  days,  long  life  ex-  ' 
tending  to  a  hundred  years  (ii.  21,  6;  iii.  36,  10;  vii.  27,  5;  x.  47, 
1  ff.).  In  iv.  32,  17  ff.  the  worshipper  states  his  wishes  more  in  detail; 
asks  Indra  to  give  him  a  thousand  yoked  horses,  a  thousand  jars  of 
soma,  hundreds  of  thousands  of  cows  ;  acknowledges  that  he  had 
received  ten  golden  jars,  and  urges  the  god  not  to  be  sparing,  but  to 
bestow  abundantly  in  conformity  with  his  character  for  liberality 
(sahasram  vyatlnam  yuktdnam  Indram  Imahe  \  satam  somasya  khdryah  \ 
18.  Sahasrd  te  satd  vayam  gavdm  d  chydvaydmasi  \  asmatrd  rddhah  etu 
te\  19.  Dasa  te  kalasdndm  hiranydndm  adhlmahi  \  bhuriddh  asi  Vrit- 
trahan |  20.  Bhuriddh  Ihuri  dehi  no  hid  dabhram  Ihuri  d  lhara  \  Ihuri 
gha  id  Indra  ditsasi  \  21.  Bhuriddh  hi  asi  sriftah  purutrd  sura  Vrittra- 
han [  d  no  lhajasva  rddhasi}.  Among  other  boons,  Indra  is  asked  to 
bestow  victory  in  war,  which  depends  upon  his  will,  and  for  which 
he  is  invoked  by  both  the  hostile  armies  (ii.  12,  8  :  yam  krandasl 
samyatl  vihvayete  pare  avare  ubhaydh  amitrdh  \  9,  yasmdd  na  rite  vija- 
yante  jandsah  yam  yudhyamdndh  avase  havante}.  In  x.  103,  8  if .  (  = 
S.Y.  ii.  1206  ff.,  and  Vaj.  S.  xvii.  40  ff.)  h'e,  in  company  with  other  gods, 

mitramaho  amartya  \  sahasah  sunav  iihuta  \  na  tva  raslya  abhisastaye^vaso  na  papcit- 
vaya  santya  I  net  me  stota  amatlva  na  durhitah  syad  Agne  na  papaya  \  "  Wert  thou, 
Agni,  a  mortal,  and  were  I  an  immortal,  o  invoked  son  o*  might,  I  would  not  abandon 
thee  to  malediction  or  misery ; — my  worshipper  should  not  be  poor  nor  distressed  nor 
wretched."  And  again  in  viii.  44,  23,  the  same  god  is  thus  addressed  :  Yad  Agne 
syam  aham  tvam  tvam  va  gha  si/ah  aham  \  sytis  te  sati/ah  ihasishah  \  "  Were  I  thou, 
Agni,  and  wert  thou  I,  thy  aspirations  should  be  fulfilled."  (In  the  former  passage 
viii.  19,  25,  a  word,  mitramahas,  occurs  which  shews  the  uncertainty  of  Sayana's 
interpretations.  He  there  explains  it  anukula-dJptiman,  "  he  whose  light  is  favour- 
able." In  i.  44,  12,  he  renders  it  mitranam  pujaka  ;  in  \.  58,  8,  anukula-dTptiman 
in  ii.  1,  5,  hita  kari-tejah;  in  vi.  2,  11,  anukule-d Ipte ;  in  vi.  5,  4,  anukula-dipte 
mitranam  madayitar  va  ;  in  vii.  5,  6,  mitranam  pujayitah  ;  in  viii.  44,  14,  mitra- 
nam pTijanlya  ;  in  viii.  49,  7,  mitranam  asniakam  pujaka  tejo  va.  Prof.  Roth 
s.v.  thinks  it  perhaps  means  "  rich  in  friends.")  See  also  i.  38,  4,  5,  in  Prof.  Max 
Muller's  Trans,  of  the  R.V.  pp.  65  and  70  f.,  and  my  art.  on  the  interpretation  of  the 
Veda,  Journ.  R.A.S.  for  1866,  pp.  371,  and  381  f.  Compare  also  x.  33,  8. 


110          INDEA'S    EELATIONS  WITH    HIS   WOESHIPPERS. 

who  seem  to  be  conceived  as  present  with  their  hosts,  as  invisible  allies 
of  their  worshippers,  is  thus  addressed :  8.  Indrah  dsdm  netd  Brihas- 
patir  Dakshind  Yajnah  purali  etu  Somah  \  devasendndm  abhibhanjatihdm 
jayantindm  Maruto  yantu  agram  \  9.  Indrasya  vrishno  Varunasya 
rdjnah  Aditydndm  marutdm  sardhah  ugram  \  mahdmanasdm  Ihuvanachya- 
vdndm  ghosho  devdndm  jayatdm  ud  asthdt  \  10.  Ud  $kar$h%ya  maghavann 
dyudhdni  ut  satvandm  mdmalcdndm  (mandmsi  \  «$  vrittrahan  vdjindm 
vdjindm  ud  rathdnam  jayatdm  yantu  ghoshdh  \  11.  AsmdJcam  Indra 
samritesJiu  dhvajeshu  asmdkam  yah  isliavas  tdhjayantu  \  asmdlcam  vlrdh 
uttare  bhavantu  asmdn  u  devdh  avata  haveshu  \  12.  ( =  Nir.  ix.  33) 
Amlshdm  chittam  pratilobhayantl  grihdnd  angdni  Apve 196  pareJii  \  abhi 
prehi  nirdaJia  Jiritsu  £olcair  andhendmitrds  tamasd  sachantdm  \  8.  "  May 
Indra  be  the  leader  of  these  (our  armies),  may  Brihaspati,  Largess, 
Sacrifice,  and  Soma  march  in  front ;  may  the  host  of  Maruts  precede  the 
crushing,  victorious  armies  of  the  gods.  9.  May  the  fierce  host  of  the 
vigorous  Indra,  of  king'V^aruna,  of  the  Adityas,  and  the  Maruts  (go 
before  us) ;  the  shout  of  the  great-souled,  conquering,  world-shaking 
gods  has  ascended.  10.  Eouse,  o  opulent  god,  the  weapons,  rouse  the 
souls  of  our  warriors,  stimulate  the  power  of  the  mighty  men ;  may 
shouts  arise  from  the  conquering  chariots.  11.  May  Indra  be  ours 
when  the  standards  clash ;  may  our  arrows  be  victorious ;  may  our 
strong  men  gain  the  upperhand ;  preserve  us,  o  gods,  in  the  fray.  12. 
Bewildering  the  hearts  of  our  enemies,  o  Apva,197  take  possession  of 
their  limbs  and  pass  onward  ;  borne  near,  burn  them  with  fires  in  their 
hearts ;  may  our  enemies  fall  into  blind  darkness."  198 

Indra  controls  the  destinies  of  men,  and  is  described  as  acting  in  an 
arbitrary  manner,  in  vi.  47,  15,  where  it  is  said  of  him :  pdddv  iva  pra- 
harann  any  am  any  am  krinoti  purvam  aparam  sachibhih  \  16.  S'rinve  virah 
ugram  ugram  damdyan  anyam  anyam  ati  nenlyamdnah  \  edhamdna-dvil 
ubhayasya  rdjd  chosJiTcuyate  visah  Indro  manushydn  \  17.  Pard  purveshtim 
sdkhyd  vrinakti  virtarturdno  aparebhir  eti  \  "  Like  one  moving  (changing 

19«  The  S.V.  reads  Aghe. 

197  Apva  is  said  in  the 'Nirukta  vi.  12,  to  mean  "disease  or  fear,"  vyadhir  va 
bhayam  va.     Eoth,  s.v.  says  the  word  means  a  disease.     In  the  improvements  and 
addition  to  his  Lexicon,  vol.  v.,  he  refers  to  the  word  as  denoting  a  goddess,  and 
quotes  Ind.  Studien  iii.  203,  and  ix.  482. 

198  This  passage  is  translated  by  Prof.  Benfey  in  his  Sama-veda.     Compare  A.V. 
iii.  19,  6ff.  and  viii.  8,  Iff. 


INDRA'S    RELATIONS   WITH    HIS   WORSHIPPERS.  HI 

the  positions  of)  his  feet  in  walking,  so  Indra  puts  one  and  now 
another  man  first  and  last.  1  6.  This  hero  is  renowned  as  subduing  every 
fierbe  man,  and  as  advancing  now  one  and  now  another.  The  enemy 
of  the  prosperous,199  the  king  of  both  (worlds),  Indra  protects  the  men 
who  are  subject  to  him.  17.  He  abandons  his  friendships  with  (his) 
former  (favourites),'  and  consorts  with  others  in  turn." 

In  the  following  yerses  (viii.  45.,  32)  the  poet  seems  to  express  disap- 
pointment at  the  inadequate  manifestation  of  Indra'  s  power,  while  he  at 
the  same  time  entreats  his  grace  and  forgiveness  :  dabhram  chid  hi  tvd- 
vatah  kritam  srinve  adhi  kshami  \  jigdtu  Indra  te  manah  \  33.  Taved  u 
tdh  sularttayah  asann  uta  prasastayah  \  yad  Indra  mrilaydsi  nah  \  34. 
Ma  nah  eJcasminn  dgasi  ma  dvayor  uta  trishu  \  vadhlr  md  sura  Ihurishu  1 
35.  Bibhaya  hi  tvdvatah  ugrdd  abhipralhanginah  \  dasmtid  aham  riti- 
shahah  \  32.  "  Little  has  been  hearAi  of  as  done  upon  earth  by  one  such 
as  thou  art  :  let  thy  soul  turn  (to  us),  o  Indra.  33.  Let  those  renowns 
and  those  praises  of  thine  be  proved  true  by  fhy  shewing  mercy  on  us, 


do  not  offer  libations,"  say  Yaska  and  Sayana  (asunvatah).  This  line 
is  explained  by  Prof.  Roth  in  his  Illustration  of  tie  Nirukta,  p.  90.  Or  have  we 
here  the  idea  that  the  gods  were  jealous  of  human  prosperity  ?  which,  as  is  well 
known,  prevailed  among  the  Greeks,  and  is  expressed  in  the  message  of  Amasis  to 
Polycratas,  as  related  by  Herodotus,  iii.  40  :  ^/*ol  5e  at  aa\  fj.eyd\ai  evrvxlcu  OVK 
apfffKovffi  rb  detov  iitiffra.fi.4vif  ws  fffrt  (pdovepdv.  "  But  thy  great  prosperity  does 
not  please  me,  as  I  know  that  the  Deity  is  envious."  See  Mr.  Blakesley's  note  in 
loco,  and  Herodotus,  i.  32,  and  vii.  46,  where  the  same  sentiment  recurs.  Prof. 
Wilson  in  the  Introduction  to  the  3rd  vol.  of  h^s  Trans,  of  the  R.V.  remarks  on  this 
passage  :  "  He  (Indra)  is  also  represented  in  the  saine  hymn  as  of  a  capricious  tem- 
perament, neglecting  those  who  serve  him,  and  favouring  those  who  pay  him  no 
adoration  (p.  473,  verse  17)  ;  a  notion  somewhat  at  variance  with  a  doctrine  previously 
inculcated,  that  the  ceremonial  worship  of  Indra  is  able  to  atone  for  the  most  atrocious 
crimes  (p.  289,  note)."  See  the  note  last  referred  to,  ^hich  relates  to  R.V.  v.  34,  4. 
But  is  this  a  correct  deduction  from  the  passage  when  properly  interpreted? 
The  verse  is  as  follows  :  Yasya  avadhlt  pitaram  yasya  mataraih  yasya  sakro  bhrata- 
rafn  na  atah  Ishate  \  veti  id  u  asya  prayata  yatankaro  na  kilbishad  Ishate  vasvah 
akarah  \  "  The  powerful  god  does  not  flee  from  the  man  whose  father,  or  mother,  or 
brother  he  has  slain.  The  restrainer  (or,  according  to  Roth,  s.v.  perhaps,  avenger) 
desires  such  a  man's  offered  (gifts)  ;  this  god,  the  source  of  riches,  does  not  flee  from 
sin."  Sayana  says  the  person,  whose  relations  the  god  slays,  is  one  who  neglects  his 
worship,  and  whom  he  chastises  and  then  reinstates  in  his  favour  (ayajvanam  siksha- 
yitva  niyojayati).  If,  however,  Indra  is  merely  punishing  the  ungodly,  can  it  be 
intended  in  the  word  kilbishat  in  the  last  clause  of  the  verse  to  impute  to  him  any 
guilt?  It  may  perhaps  be  meant  that  he  does  not  fear  to  punish  the  offender  against 
him.  In  verses  3,  5,  and  6  of  the  hymn  the  godly  man  who  offers  libations  is  said  to 
prosper,  while  the  irreligious  incurs  the  god's  displeasure. 


112          INDRA'S    RELATIONS   WITH   HIS  WORSHIPPERS. 

o  Indra.  34.  Slay  us  not  for  one  sin,  nor  for  two,  nor  for  three,  nor 
for  many,  o  hero.  35.  I  am  afraid  of  one  so  terrible,  so  crushing,  so 
destroying,  such  a  queller  of  resistance  as  thou  art."200  Indra  is^the 
enemy  of  the  irreligious,  whom  he  punishes  and  destroys,  i.  131,  4: 
S'dsas  tarn  Indra  martyam  ayajyum  \  "  Thou,  Indra,  hast  punished  him 
who  does  not  worship  thee;  ii.  12,  10  :  yah  sasvatovmah?eno  dadhdndn 
amanyamdndn  sarvd  jaghdna  \  "  who  slew  with  big  bolt  those  who  are 
great  sinners,  and  do  not  regard  him;  viii.  14,  15:  asunvdm  Indra 
samsadam  vishucMm  ui  andsayah  \  somapdh  uttaro  bhavan  \  "  Thou, 
Indra,  a  soma-drinker,  who  art  above  all,  hast  destroyed  and  scattered 
the  assembly  which  offers  no  libations."  (Compare  the  passages  quoted 
in  Vol.  i.  pp.  259  ff. ;  and  in  my  article  on  the  Indian  priests  in  the 
Yedic  age,  Jour.  R.A.S.,  for  1866,  pp.  286  ff.)201  He  hears  and  sees  all 
things,  and  looks  upon  the  wrath  of  men,  himself  uncontrolled  (viii. 
67,  5  :  visvam  srinoti  patyati  \  6.  Sa  manyum  martydndm  adabdho 
nichiklsJiate).  He  protects  his  faithful  servants  and  leads  them  into  an 
ample  space,  into  celestial  light  'and  security  (vi.  47,  8  :  urum  ^  no 
lokam  anu  neshi  vidvdn  svarvaj  jyotir  abhayam  svasti] ;  and  in  one 
place,  viii.  58,  7,  the  hope  is  held  that  they  shall  ascend  with  him  to 
a  home  in  the  solar  sphere,  and  there  drink  nectar  thrice  seven  times  in 
the  abode  of  their  friend  (ud  yad  Iradhnasga  vishtapam  griham  Indras 
cJia  ganvahi  \  madhvah  pitvd  sachevahi  trih  sapta  salthyuh  pade). 


200  The  sense  of  Terse  134f.  is~thus  given  by  Prof.  Roth  in  his  Illustrations  of  the 
Nirukta  (iv.  2)  p.  38  :  "  The  poet  prays  Indra  not  to  destroy  him  for  one  or  more 
sins  (verse  34),  says  that  he  is  afraid  of  one  so  powerful  as  the  god  (verse  35),  and 
entreats  him  to  avert  from  him  the  loss  of  a  friend  or  a  son  (verso  36).     He  then 
makes  the  god  answer  in  th?  verse  before  us  (37) :  '  Who,  o  mortals,'  said  Indra, 
'  without  being  provoked  as  a  friend,  has  ever  destroyed  his  friend  ?    Who  must  flee 
from  me?'  " 

201  Compare  R.V.  viii.  21,  14  (  =  S.Y.  ii.  740) :  nakih  revantam  sakhyaya  vindase 
plyanti  tva  sttrasvah  \  yada  krinoshi  nadanum  samuhasi  ad  it  piteva  huyase),  which 
is  thus  rendered  by  Prof.  Miiller  (Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.,  p.  543 f.)  :  "Thou  never  findest 
a  rich  man  to  he  thy  friend ;  wine-swillers  despise  thee.     But  when  thou  thunderest, 
when  thou  gatherest  (the  clouds),  then  thou  art  called  like  a  father."    Benfey  renders 
the  verse  somewhat  differently,  thus  :  "  Thou  never  takest  for  a  friend  the  man  who 
is  merely  rich ;  he  who  is  inflated  with  wine  is  a  burthen  to  thee  :  with  a  mere  sound 
thou  smitest  them,  and  then  thou  art  supplicated  like  a  father." 

202  Compare  viii.  57,  13.     In  A.V.  vii.  84,  2,  Indra  is  said  to  have  repelled  the 
hostile  man,  and  opened  an  ample  space  for  the  gods  (apdnudo  janum  amitrayantam 
urum  devebhyah  akrinor  u  lokam). 


INDRA' S    RELATIONS    WITH    HIS    WORSHIPPERS.          H3 

Indra,  more  than  any  other  god,203  is  invoked  as  a  patron  of  the 
Aryas,  and  as  their  protector  against  their  enemies  earthly,  or  aerial : 
i.  61,  8 :  Vijdnlhi  dry  an  ye  cha  dasyavo  barhishmate  randhaya  sdsad 
avratdn  \  sdkl  bhava  yajamdnasya  choditd  visvd  it  te  sadhamddeshu 
chdkana  \  "  Distinguish  between  the  Aryas  and  those  who  are  Dasyus; 
subject  the  Lawless  to  the  man  who  offers  oblations ;  be  a  powerful 
helper  of  him  who  sacrifices  ;  t  all  these  things  I  desire  at  thy 
festivals." 2M  (See  also  the  following  verse.) 

i.  103,  3  :  sa  jdtubharmd-05  sraddadhdnah  ojah  puro  vibhindann 
acharad  vi  ddslh  \  vidvdn  vajrin  dasyave  hetim  asya  dryam  saho  vardhaya 
dyumnam  Indra  \  "  Wielding  the  thunderbolt,  and  confident  in  his 
prowess,  he  strode  onward,  shattering  the  cities  of  the  Dasyus. 
Thunderer,  knowing  (each),  hurl  thy  bolt  against  the  Dasyu,  and 
augment  the  force  and  glory  of  the  Arya."  i.  130,  8  :  Indrah  samatsu 
yajamdnam  dryam  prdvad  visveshu  satamutir  djishu  .  .  .  .  |  manave 
sdsad  avratdn  tvacham  krishndm  arandhayaf  \  "Indra,  commanding  a 
hundred  modes  of  succour,  protected  in  all  the  battles  the  sacrificing 
Arya:  chastising  the  lawless,  he  subjected  the  black  skin  to  Manu  (or 
the  Aryan  man)."  ii.  11,  18:  apdvrinor  jybtir  drydya  ni  savyatah 
sddi  dasyur  Indra  \  "Thou  hast  disclosed  the  light  to  the  Arya;  the 
Dasyu  was  placed  on  the  left  side."  iii.  34,  9 :  sasdna  atydn  uta 
suryam  sasdna  sasdna  purubhojasam  gum  \  hiranyayam  uta  bhogam 
sasdna  hatvl  dasyun  pra  dryam  varnam  dvat  \  "Indra  has  given  horses, 

203  Other  gods,  however,  are  also  referred  to  as  protectors  of  the  Aryas.   Tn  i.  117, 
21  (Nir.  vi.  25)  it  is  said  of  the  As'vins :  abhi  dasyum  bakurena  a  dhamanta  uru 
jyotir  chakratuv  aryaya  \  "  Sweeping  away  the  Dasyu  with  the  thunderbold,  ye  have 
created  a  great  light  for  the  Arya."     Prof.  Roth  think*  bakura  means  a  wind  instru- 
ment, Illust.  of  Nir.  p.  92,  and  Lexicon  s.v.    Prof.  Benfey  follows  Suyana  in  rendering 
it  by  thunderbolt.     In  vi.  21,  11,  it  is  said  of  all  the  gods  :  ye  agnijihvah  ritasiipah 
astir  ye  manum  chakrur  uparam  dasaya  \  "  Those  (gods)  who,  fire-tongued,  and  fre- 
quenting religious  rites,  have  made  Manu's  race  (or  the  Aryan  man)  superior  to  the 
Dasa."     In  vii.  100,  4,  it  is  said  of  Vishnu  :  vi  chakrame  prithivnn  esha  etam  kshe- 
traya  Vishnur  manutfhe  dctsasyan  \  "  This  Vishnu  strode  over  this  earth,  bestowing 
it  as  a  domain  on  Manu's  race."     And  in  viii.  92,  1,  it  is  said  of  Agni :  upo  shu 
jatam  aryasya  vardhanam  Agniih  nakshanta  no  girah  }  "  Our  hymns  have  reached 
Agni,  who  was  born  the  promoter  of  the  Arya." 

204  See  Professor  Benfey's  Translation  in  Orient  und  Occident,  i.  408. 

205  Sayana  says  this  means  either  "  he  whose  weapon  is  the  thunderbolt,"  or  "the 
nurturer  of  creatures."    Benfey,  Or.  und  Occ.  iii.  132,  renders  the  compound  "born- 
warrior." 

8 


114           INDRA'S    RELATIONS  WITH    HIS  WORSHIPPERS. 

has  given  the  sun,  has  given  the  prolific  cow,  and  he  has  given  golden 
wealth  :  destroying  the  Dasyus,  he  has  protected  the  Aryan  colour." 
iv.  26,  2  :  aham  bhumim  adaddm  drydya  aham  vri&htim  dusushe  mbr- 
tydya  \  "I  have  given  the  earth  to  the  Arya,  and  rain  to  the  wor- 
shipping mortal."  vi.  18,  3  :  tvam  ha  nu  tyad  adamdyo  dasyiin  elcah 
krishtlr  avanor  drydya  \  "  Thou  didst  then  subdue  the*  Dasyus,  and 
gavest  the  people  to  the  Arya."  yi.  25,  3 :  dbhir  visvdh  alhiyujo 
vishuchir  drydya  visah  avatdrlr  ddslh  \  "  With  these  succours  thou  hast 
subjected  all  the  distracted  hostile  Dasyu  peoples  to  the  Arya."  viii. 
24,  27 :  yah  rikshdd  amhaso  muchad  yo  vd  drydt  sapta  sindhushu  \ 
vadhar  ddsasya  tuvinrimna  ninamah  \  "Who  delivered  from  great 
straits;  who,  o  god  of  mighty  force,  didst  in  (the  land  of)  the  seven 
rivers  turn  away  from  the  Arya  the  weapon  of  the  Dasyu."  viii.  87,  6 : 
tvam  hi  sasvatlndm  Indra  dartd  purdm  asi  \  hantd  dasyor  manor  vridhah 
patir  divah  \  "  Thou,  Indra,  art  the  destroyer  of  unnumbered  cities ;  the 
slayer  of  the  Dasyu ;  the  prosperer  of  the  (Aryan)  man ;  the  lord  of 
the  sky."  x.  49,  2 :  aham  S'mhnasya  snathitd  vadhar  yamam  na  yo 
rare  dry  am  ndma  dasyave  \  "I,  the  smiter,  have  stayed  the  weapon  of 
S'ushna;  I  do  not  abanSon  the  Aryan  race  to  the  Dasyu."  x.  86,  19  : 
ay  am  emi  vichdkasad  vichinvan  ddsam  dry  am  \  "I  come  beholding  and 
distinguishing  the  Dasa  and  the  Arya."  (I  am  unable,  however,  to 
say  who  is  the  speaker  here.)206 

206  Indra  with  Agni  is,  however,  besought  in  vi.  60  to  slay  all  enemies,  Aryas  as 
well  as  Dasyus  ;  hato  vrittrani  aryn  hato  dasani  satpatl  \  hato  visva  apa  dvishaK). 
In  x.  38,  3,  Indra  alone  is  similarly  addressed :  Yo  no  dasah  aryo  va  purushtuta 
adevah  Indra  yudhaye  chiketati  \  asmabhir  te  sushahah  santu  satravas  tvaya  vayam 
tan  vanuyama  sangame  \  "  Whatever  ungodly  man,  o  much-lauded  Indra,  whether  a 
Dasa  or  an  Arya,  designs  to  fight  with  us, — may  all  such  enemies  Be  easy  to  overcome; 
may  we  slay  them  in  the  conflict."  And  in  x.  102,  3,  it  is  said :  antar  yachha 
jighaihsato  vajram  Indra  abhidasatah  \  dasasya  va  marjhavann  aryasya  va  sanutar 
yavaya  vadham  \  "Arrest,  o  Indra,  the  bolt  of  the  destroyer  who  seeks  to  slay  us; 
avert  far  from  us  the  stroke,  whether  of  Dasa  or  of  Arya."  Indra  and  Varuna  are 
invoked  for  the  same  object  in  vii.  83,  1 :  Dasa  cha  vrittra  hatam  arycini  cha  sudasam 
Indra-varuna  'vasa  'vatam  \  "  Slay  both  Dasa  and  Arya  enemies ;  protect  Sudas  with 
your  succour,  o  Indra  and  Varuna."  So  too  in  x.  83,  1,  Manyu  (personified  Wrath) 
is  prayed :  sahyama  dasam  aryaiti  tvaya  yitja  Mhtkfitena  sahasa  sahasvatn  \  "  May 
we,  with  thee  for  our  ally,  overcome  the  Dasa  and  the  Arya,  with  force-impelled, 
vigorous,  energy."  Perhaps  ii.  11,  19  (sanema  ye  te  utibhis  taranto  visvah  spridhah 
aryena  dasyun)  may  have  the  same  sense.  In  x.  65,  11,  certain  bountiful  deities  are 
spoken  of  as  generating  prayer,  the  cow,  the  horse,  plants,  trees,  the  earth,  the 
mountains,  the  waters,  as  elevating  the  sun  in  the  sky,  and  as  spreading  Aryan  insti- 


ARE  THE  REPRESENTATIONS  OP  INDRA  INCONSISTENT.      1 1 5 

(7)  Apparent  mutual  incongruity  of  some  of  the  preceding  represen- 
tations of  Indra, 

The  reader  who  is  not  familiarly  acquainted  with  the  hymns  of  the 
Veda,  either  in  the  original,  or  by  translations,  may  think  that  he 
perceives  an  incompatibility  between  the  conceptions  of  the  god,  which 
he  will  find  in  the  different  parts  of  the  preceding  sketch.  And, 
according  to  our  idea,  no  doubt,  there  is  an  incompatibility.  The  na'if 
familiarity  with  which  Indra  is  treated  in  some  places  seems  irreconcil- 
able with  the  lofty  ideas  of  his  greatness  which  other  portions  express. 
And  more  particularly  the  sensual  character,  which  is  generally  attributed 
to  the  god,  appears  to  be  in  opposition  to  the  moral  perfection  which  is 
elsewhere  described  as  an  essential  feature  of  his  nature.  But  however 
incompatible,  according  to  our  ideas,  they 'may  seem  to  be,  both  of 
these  sets  of  representations  occur  side  by  side,  in  the  same  hymns ; 
and  we  must  account  for  their  co-existence  and  juxtaposition  by  sup- 
posing that  the  ancient  Indian  poets  regarded  the  deity  who  was  the 
object  of  their  adoration  as  anthropopathically  partaking,  in  a  higher 
degree,  of  the  elements,  sensuous  as  well  as  intellectual  and  moral, 
which,  on  the  evidence  of  their  own  consciousness,  they  knew  to  be 
equally  constituent  parts  of  their  own  nature.  It  must  be  further 
borne  in  mind  that  these  ancient  authors  did  not  connect  the  same 
low  associations  as  we  now  connect  with  the  sensuous,  or  even 
sensual,  principle  in  the  character  of  the  god  which  is  exemplified  in 
his  love  for  the  exhilarating  draughts  of  his  favourite  beverage.  This  is 
clearly  shew,n  by  the  high  rank  which,  as  we  shall  hereafter  see,  they 
assigned  to  Soma  himself,  as  the  deity  in  "vVtiom  this  intoxicating  in- 
fluence was  personified,  and  by  the  power  which  they  ascribed  to  him 
of  conferring  immortality  upon  his  votaries. 

And  that  these  apparently  incongruous  conceptions  are  not  the  products 
of  different  minds  in  various  stages  of  development,  but  of  the  same 
poets,  may  be  seen  from  the  following  instances.  In  ii.  15,  2,  Indra  is 
said  to  have  fulfilled  some  of  his  grandest  functions  under  the  influence 
of  the  soma-juice  :  avamse  dydm  astalhdyad  brihantam  a  rodasi  aprinad 

tutions  upon  the  earth  (brahma  gam  asvam  janayantah  oshadhlr  vanaspatln  prithivtm 
parvatan  apah  \  suryam  dim  rohayantah  sudanavah  arya   vrata  visrijantah   adhi 


116  PROFESSOR  ROTH'S  THEORY  OF  THE 

antariksham  |  sa  dhdrayad  prithivlm  paprathach  cha  somasya  td  made 
Indr'as  chakdra  \  "  He  fixed  the  heaven  in  empty  space;  he  filled  the 
two  worlds  and  the  air;  he  supported  the  earth  and  spread  it  out; 
these  things  Indra  did  in  the  exhilaration  of  the  soma."  Similarly  in 
viii.  36,  4,  Janitd  divo  janitd  prithivydh  piba  somam  maddya  kam  sata- 
krato  |  "Generator  of  Heaven,  generator  of  the  Earth,  drink  soma  to 
exhilarate  thee,  o  god  of  mighty  foree."  In  viii.  {57,  5,  as  we  have 
seen  above,  p.  112,  Indra  is  said  to  hear  and  see  everything.  In 
the  seventh  verse  of  the  same  hymn  we  are  told  that  the  belly  of 
him,  the  impetuous  actor,  the  slayer  of  Vrittra,  and  drinker  of 
soma,  is  full  of  vigour  (kratvah  it  purnam  udaram  turasya  asti 
vidhatah  \  vrittraghnah  somapdvnah}.  And  in  viii.  81,  6,  it  is  said  of 
him  :  asya  pitvd  maddndm  devo  devasya  ojasd  \  visvd  'bhi  bhuvand 
'bhavat  \  "Drinking,  a  god,  of  the  exhilarating  draughts  of  this  god 
(Soma),  he,  by  his  energy,  overcame  all  beings  (or  worlds)." 

(8)  Professor  Roth's  theory  of  the  supersession  of  the  worship  of  Varuna 
by  that  of  Indra. 

Professsor  Roth  is  of  opinion  that  Varuna  belongs  to  an  older 
dynasty  of  gods  than  Indra,  and  that  during  the  Vedic  age  the  high 
consideration  originally  attaching  to  the  former  was  in  course  of  being 
transferred  to  the  latter.  In  support  of  his  position  that  Varuna's 
worship  was  then  declining,  he  urgts  the  circumstance  that,  in  the 
tenth  book  of  the  Rig-veda,  which  contains  the  latest  productions  of 
that  period,  there  is  not  a  single  entire  hymn  addressed  to  this  deity.207 

207  See  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  vi.  73  ;  and  Bohtlingk  and 
Roth's  Sanskrit  and  German  Lexicon,  s.v.  Indra.  Professor  Whitney  adopts  the 
same  view  (Journ.  Amer.  Orient.  Society,  iii.  327).  Windischmann,  in  his  Mithra» 
p.  54,  extends  the  same  remark  to  that  god  also.  The  passage  is  translated  in  the 
2nd  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  295.  Although,  however,  there  is  no  hymn  in  the  tenth 
Mandala  addressed  exclusively  to  Varuna,  there  are  two,  the  126th,  of  eight  verses, 
and  the  185th,  of  three  verses,  in  which  he  is  invoked  along  with  two  of  the  other 
Adityas,  Mitra  and  Aryaman.  In  only  two  verses  of  the  former  of  these  hymns  is 
'reference  made  to  any  other  god,  viz.,  to  Rudra,  the  Maruts,  and  Agni  in  the  verse  5, 
and  Agni  in  verse  8.  Varuna>is  also  invoked,  or  referred  to,  along  with  other  deities, 
in  numerous  single  verses  of  the  10th  Mandala,  viz.,  in  8,  5  ;  10,  6;  11,  1  ;  12,  8  : 
14,7;  30,1;  31,9;  35,10;  36,1,3,12,13;  37,1;  51,2,4;  61,17;  63,9; 
64,  5,  12  ;  65,  1,  5,  8,  9  ;  66,  2  ;  70,  11 ;  75,  2  ;  83,  2;  84,  7 ;  85,  17,  24  ;  89,  8, 
9 ;  93,  4 ;  97,  16 ;  98,  1 ;  99,  10  ;  103,  9  ;  109,  2 ;  113,  5  ;  123,  6  ;  124,  4,  5,  7  ; 
125,1;  130,5;  132,2:  147,5;  167,3;  173,5.  See  the  index  to  Langlois's 
French  translation  of  the  R.V. 


SUPEESESSION  OF  VAEUNA  BY  INDEA.  117 

I  give  the  substance  of  his  interesting  observations : — 
The  supersession  of  the  one  god  by  the  other  Roth  considers  to  be  a 
result,  or  feature,  of  the  gradual  modification  which  the  old  Arian 
religion  soon  began  to  undergo  after  it  had  been  transplanted  into 
India.  The  more  supersensuous  or  spiritual  elements  of  this  religion 
he  thinks  we're  preserved,  though  in  a  peculiar  and  somewhat  altered 
form,  in  the  Persian  creed,  which,  at  the  same  time,  rejected  almost 
entirely  the  gods  representing  the  powers  of  nature,  whom  it  had  also 
inherited  from  an  earlier  age.  The  Indian  faith,  as  found  in  the  Rig- 
veda,  has,  on  the  contrary,  according  to  Roth,  begun  already  to  give  the 
preference  to  these  latter  deities,  to  transfer  to  them  an  ever-increasing 
dignity  and  honour,  to  draw  down  the  divine  life  into  nature,  and  to 
bring  it  ever  closer  to  man.  Proof  of  this  is  especially  to  be  found  in 
the  development  of  the  myth  regarding  Indra,  a  god  who,  in  the 
earlier  period  of  Arian  religious  history,  either  had  no  existence,  or 
was  confined  to  an  obscure  province.  The  Zend  legend  assigns  to 
another  god  the  function  which  forms  the  essence  of  the  later  myth 
concerning  Indra.  This  god  Trita,  however,  disappears  in  the  Indian 
mythology  of  tho  Vedic  age,  and  is  succeeded  by  Indra.  And  not 
only  so,  but  towards  the  end  of  this  period  Indra  begins  to  dislodge 
even  Yaruna  himself,  the  highest  god  of  the  ancient  creed,  from  the 
position  which  is  shewn,  partly  by  historical  testimonies,  and  partly 
by  the  very  conception  of  his  character,  to  belong  to  him,  and  becomes, 
if  not  the  supreme  god,  at  least  the  national  god,  whom  his  encomiasts 
strive  to  elevate  above  the  ancient  Yaruna.  This  process  was  com- 
pleted in  the  post-vedic  period,  as  is  shewn  already  in  tie  Brahmanas 
and  other  works  of  the  same  era.  Indra , becomes  the  chief  of  the 
Indian  heaven,  and  maintains  this  place  even  in  the  composite  system 
which  adopted  into  itself  the  three  great  gods.  The  course  of  the 
movement  was  therefore  this,  that  an  old  god,  common  to  the  Arians 
(i.e.  the  Persians  and  Indians),  and  perhaps  also  to  the  entire  Indo- 
Germanic  race,  Yaruna-Ormuzd-Uranos,  is  thrown  back  into  the  dark-' 
ness,  and  in  his  room  Indra,  a  peculiarly  Indian,  and  a  national  god, 
is  intruded.  "With  Yaruna  disappears  at  the  same  time  the  ancient 
character  of  the  people,  while  with  Indra  there  was  introduced  in  the 
same  degree  a  new  character,  foreign  to  the  primitive  Indo-Germanic 
nature.  Yiewed  in  its  internal  aspect,  this  modification  of  the  religious 


118  SUPEESESSION  OF  DYAUS  BY  INDRA, 

conceptions  of  the  Aryas  consists  in  an  ever-increasing  tendency  to 
attenuate  the  supersensuous,  mysterious  side  of  the  creed,  until  the 
gods,  who  were  originally  the  highest  and  most  spiritual,  have  become 
unmeaning  representatives  of  nature,  Varuna  being  nothing  more  than 
the  ruler  of  the  sea,  and  the  Adityas  merely  regents  of  the  sun's  course. 
This  process  of  degradation  naturally  led  to  a  refaction.  (See  the 
Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  vi.  76  f.)  e 

The  superior  antiquity  of  Varuna  to  Indra  may  no  doubt  (as  inti- 
mated in  the  passage  just  quoted),  be  argued  from  the  fact  already 
noticed  of  the  coincidence  of  the  name  of  the  former  with  that  of  the 
Greek  Ovpavos,  which  goes  some  way  to  prove  that  a  deity  of  this 
name  was  worshipped  by  the  entire  Indo-Germanic  race  before  its 
western  branches  were  separated  from  the  eastern,  whilst  we  shall 
look  in  vain  for  any  traces  of  the  name  Indra  in  the  Greek  mythology. 

(9)  Supersession  of  Dyaus  by  Indra,  according  to  Professors 
Benfey  and  Breal. 

It  is,  however,  as  I  have  already  intimated,  p.  34,  the  opinion  of 
other  writers  tnat  Indra  was  rather  the  successor  of  Dyaus  than  of 
Varuna.  Thus  in  a  note  (occasioned  by  the  word  sthdtar}  to  his  trans- 
lation of  E.V.  i.  33,  5  (Orient  und  Occident,  i.  48,  1862),  Professor 
Benfey  writes :  "It  may  be  distinctly  shewn  that  Indra  took  the  place 
of  the  god  of  the  heaven,  who  itt  the  Yedas  is  invoked  in  the  vocative 
as  Dyaush  pitar  (R.V.  vi.  51,  5).  This  is  proved  by  the  fact  that  this 
phrase  is  exactly  reflected  in  the  Latin  (Diespiter  ?  and  Jupiter  (for 
Dyouspiter)  and  in  the  Greek  Zev  irarep  (which  is  consequently  to  be 
taken  for  Zevs  Trarep},  as  a  religious  formula  fixed,  like  many  others, 
before  the  separation  of  the  languages.  When  the  Sanskrit  people  left 
the  common  country  where  for  them,  as  well  as  for  the  other  kindred 
tribes,  the  brilliant  radiance  of  heaven  (divant,  part,  from  div,  to 
•shine  .  .  .  )  appeared  to  them,  in  consequence  of  the  climate  there 
prevailing,  as  the  holiest'thing,  and  settled  in  the  sultry  India,  where 
the  glow  of  the  heaven  is  destructive,  and  only  its  rain  operates  bene- 
ficently, this  aspect  of  the  celestial  deity  must  have  appeared  the  most 
adorable,  so  that  the  epithet  Pluvius  in  a  certain  measure  absorbed  all 
the  other  characteristics  of  Dyaush  pitar.  This  found  its  expression  in 


ACCORDING  TO  PROFESSORS  BENFET  AND  BRE'AL.         119 

the  name  Ind-ra,  in  which  we  unhesitatingly  recognize  a  word  (which 
arose  in  some  local  dialect,  and  was  then  diffused  with  the  spread  of 
the  worship)  standing  for  sind-ra,  which  again  was  derived  from  syand, 
'  to  drop.'  .  .  . 208  The  conceptions  which  had  been  attached  to  Dyaus, 
Jous,  Zev$,  were  then  transferred  to  Indra,  and  accordingly  we  find 
the  epithet  stator,'  which  in  Latin  is  attached  to  Juppiter,  applied  to 
him."  In  this  view  Professor  Benfey  is  followed  by  M.  Michel  Breal, 
in  his  "  Hercule  et  Cacus,"  p.  101.  After  giving  in  Section  V.  an 
account  of  the  myth  of  Indra  and  Vrittra,  this  able  writer  proceeds  in 
the  following  section  to  explain  its  formation.  I  translate  a  few 
sentences  from  p.  101  :  "The  first  thing  which  ought  to  strike  us  is 
that  the  hero  of  the  myth  is  not  the  same  in  the  Indian,  as  in  the 
classical  mythology.  The  name  Indra  has  nothing  in  common  with 
Zeus ;  further  Indra  is  an  exclusively  Indian  god,  created  at  an  epoch 
when  the  ancestors  of  the  European  races  had  been  already  separated 
from  their  brothers  in  Asia ;  in  reading  the  Vedas  we  are  in  some  sort 
spectators  of  his  first  appearance,  •  which  nearly  coincides  with  the 
composition  of  the  earliest  hymns.  But  we  have  already  said  that  the 
Vedic  mythology  is  extremely  floating,  that  tke  attributes  of  one  god 
are  easily  transferred  to  another,  and  that  in  place  of  Inara,  other  gods 
are  often  invoked  as  the  conquerors  of  Vrittra.  We  are  authorized 
then  to  think  that  in  this  myth  Indra  occupies  the  place  of  some  more 
ancient  divinity.  The  name  of  this  god,  which  we  may  give  with 
perfect  certainty,  is  Dyaus,  or  Dyaushpitar,  the  Heaven,  father  of 
beings.  Dyaus  is  the  first  god  of  the  Indo-European  nations :  main- 
tained in  his  supreme  rank  by  the  Greeks  and  Latins^he  has  fallen 
from  it  in  the  Yedas,  although  he  is  there  sometimes  invoked,  chiefly 
in  company  with  the  goddess  Prithivi  (the  Earth)." 


208  Professor  Miiller  assigns  the  same  sense  to  Indra,  in  his  Lectures  on  Language, 
ii.  430,  note,  -where  he  writes :  Indra,  a  name  peculiar  to  India,  admits  but  of  one 
etymology,  i.e.  it  must  be  derived  from  the  same  root,  whatever  that  may  be,  which, 
in  Sanskrit  yielded  indu,  drop,  sap.  It  meant  originally  the  giver  of  rain,  the 
Jupiter  pluvius,  a  deity  in  India  more  often  present  to  the  mind  of  the  worshipper 
than  any  other.  Cf.  Benfey,  Orient  und  Occident,  vol.  i.  p.  49."  Professor  Roth,  in 
his  Lexicon,  s.v.  thinks  the  word  comes  from  the  root  in  or  inv,  with  the  suffix  r, 
preceded  by  epenthetic  d,  and  means  "the  overcomer,"  "the  powerful."  The  old 
Indian  derivations  may  be  found,  as  he  remarks,  in  Nir,  x.  8.  See  also  Sayana  on 
E.V.  i.  34,  referred  to  by  Roth,  Illust.  of  Nir.,  p.  136. 


120  WHETHER  VARUNA  AND  AHURA  MAZDA 

But  whatever  may  be  the  case  as  regards  Dyaus,  the  increasing 
popularity  of  Indra  may,  no  doubt,  as  Professor  Roth  supposes,  have 
tended  also  to  eclipse  the  lustre  of  Yaruna. 

(10)  Opinions  of  Professors  Roth,  Whitney, 'Spiegel,  and^  Dr.  F.  Windisch- 
mann,  on  the  question  wJtether  Varuna  and  Ahura  Mazda  are  histo- 
rically connected. 

If  Professor  Roth's  opinion,209  that  there  is  not  merely  an  analogy,  but 
an  actual  historical  connection  between  the  Adityas  and  the  Amshaspands 
of  the  Zend  Avesta,  be  well  founded,  it  will  b"e  made  out  that  Yaruna, 
who  is  one  of  the  Adityas,  must  have  been  worshipped  by  the  Aryans 
before  the  separation  of  the  Persian  from  the  Indian  branch  of  that 
family.  And  this  conclusion  will  be  confirmed  if  we  adopt  the  sug- 
gestion of  Professor  Whitney,210  that  Ahura-Mazda  is  a  development 
of  Yaruna. 

I  learn,  however,  from  a  communication  with  which  I  have  lately 
been  favoured  by  Professor  Spiegel,  of  Erlangen,  that  that  eminent 
Zend  scholar  is  unable  to  recognize  any  similarity  between  Ahura- 
Mazda  and  Yaruna,  and  considers  the  connection  of  the  Amshaspands 
with  the  Adityas  to  be  very  doubtful.211  The  late  Dr.  Windischmann 

209  Journ.  Germ.  Orient.  Society,  vi.  69,  70. 

210  Journal  of  the  American  Oriental  Society,  iii.  327.     "  Ahura  Mazda,  Ormuzd 
himself  is,"  he  writes,  "as  is  hardly  to  be  doubted,  a  development  of  Varuna,  the 
Adityas  are  correlatives  of  the  Amshaspands,  there  even  exists  in  the  Persian  religion 
the  same  close  connection  between  Ahura  Mazda  and  Mithra  as  in  the  Indian  between 
Mitra  and  Varuna."     There  is  no  doubt  that  the  term  Asura,  "spirit,"  which  is 
frequently  applied  to  Varuna  aifl  to  Mitra,  and  also  to  Indra  and  others  of  the  Vedic 
gods,  is  the  same  word  which,  in  its  Zend  form,  Ahura,  makes  up,  with  the  addition 
of  Mazda,  the  appellation  of  the  supreme  and  benevolent  deity  of  the  Iranian  my- 
thology.    Professor  Miiller  regards  the  names  Ahuro  Mazdao  as  corresponding  to 
the  Sanskrit  Asuro-medhas,  the  "wise  spirit"  (Lectures  on  the  Science  of  Language, 
first  series,  1st  edition,  p.  195).     See  also  Professor  Benfey's  Glossary  to  the  Sama- 
cveda  (1848)  s.v.  mcdhas,  from  which  it  appears  that  that  scholar  had   adopted  the 
same  identification,  and  considers  the  existing  reading  of  R.V.  viii.  20,  17,  asurasya 
vedhasah,  to  be  a  corruption  of  asurasya  medhasah.    But  redhas  occurs  elsewhere  as 
an  epithet  of  the  gods,  e.g.  of  Vishnu  in  i.  156,  2, 4.     In  the  last  of  these  verses  he  is 
styled  marutasya  ved/tasah. 

211  in  regard  to  Ahura-Mazda  and  the  Amshaspands,  Professor  Spiegel  has,  as  he 
informs  me,  collected  all  the  positive  information  he  could  obtain  in  the  Avesta,  in 
the  Introduction  to  the  3rd  vol.  of  his  translation,  pp.  iii.  ff. 


AEE  HISTOKICALLY  CONNECTED.  121 

also,  as  Professor  Spiegel  informs  me,  held  Ahura  Mazda  to  be  a  purely 
Iranian  god  (Zoroastrische  Studien,  p.  122).  And  such  of  the  grounds 
for  regarding  Varuna  as  an  older  deity  than  Indra  as  might  otherwise 
have  been  derived  from  the  Zend  Avesta,  would  be  a  good  deal 
weakened  if  we  could  look  u^pon  the  Indra  or  Andra  of  the  Zend 
books  as  standing  l"or  the  same  god  who  was  known  in  India  under 
the  former  name  («ee  Spiegel's  »A  vesta,  i.  10),  and  as  represent- 
ing a  deity  who  had  at  one  time  been  an  object  of  worship  common 
both  to  the  Indian  and  Persian  Aryans,  but  who  after  the  separa- 
tion of  the  two  tribes  was  degraded  by  the  latter  into  an  evil 
spirit.  For  while  Indra  would  thus  be  proved  to  have  been  known 
before  the  period  of  that  separation,  he  might  also  have  been  at  one 
time  a  god  held  by  both  divisions  of  the  Aryas  in  high  consideration  as 
well  as  Varuna.  I  learn,  however,  from  Professor  Spiegel,  that  the 
materials  afforded  by  the  Zend  books  in  reference  to  this  name  are  not 
sufficient  to  afford  a  basis  for  any  positive  conclusions.212 

(11)  Whether  there  are  any  passages  in  the  hymn^s  which  decisively  shew 
that  Indra  was  superseding  Varuna.        • 

Beyond  the  fact  noticed  by  Both,  that  Varuna  is  much  less  fre- 
quently mentioned  in  the  last  than  in  the  earlier  books  of  the  Eig- 
veda,  I  have  not  observed  in  the  hymns  themselves  anything  that  can 

212  The  identification  of  Andra  with  Indra  was,  as  Professor  Spiegel  tells  me,  first 
proposed  by  Burnouf  (Yas'na  526  if.),  where  a  translation  is  given  of  the  passage  in 
which  Andra  is  mentioned.  It  is  rendered  thus  by  Spiegel  himself,  in  hisA vesta,  i.  176 : 
"  I  fight  with  Indra,  I  fight  with  S'auru,  I  fight  with  tie  Daeva  Naoghaithi,  to  drive 
them  away  from  the  dwelling,  the  village,  the  castle,  the  country."  The  name  Indra 
or  Andra,  as  Prof.  Spiegel  further  informs  me,  occurs  only  in  one  other  passage  ("Wester- 
gaard,  Zendavesta,  p.  475),  which  he  (Prof.  S.)  believes  to  be  interpolated.  It  con- 
tains merely  the  name,  and  consequently  throws  no  further  light  on  the  position  of 
the  god  in  the  Avesta.  The  information  found  in  the  later  Parsee  books  regarding 
Indra  or  Andra  is  also  meagre  (compare  Spiegel's  Avesta,  ii.  35).  On  this  subject 
Professor  Spiegel  makes  the  following  remarks,  in  the  Infroduction  to  the  3rd  vol.  of 
his  Avesta,  p.  Ixxxi. :  "  It  is  said  by  some  that  the  Andra  of  the  Avesta  is  the  Indra 
of  the  Vedas,  that  Niioghaithya  answers  to  Nasatyas,  and  Saurva  to  Sarva.  Here 
from  a  real  fact  a  quite  incorrect  conclusion  is  drawn.  The  names  are  the  same  in 
both  religious  systems ;  but  how  far  the  things  resemble  each  other  can  never  be 
shown  in  the  same  manner  as  the  similarity  of  Soma  and  Haoma,  etc. ;  for  the  Avesta 
tells  us  nothing  more  than  the  name  of  any  of  the  beings  in  question." 


122  WHETHER  THE  HYMNS  POINT  TO  ANY 

be  construed  as  a  decisive  proof  that  the  worship  of  Indra  was  super- 
seding that  of  Varuna  during  the  period  of  their  composition.  It  is 
true  that  even  in  the  earlier  parts  of  the  Veda  the  number  of  hymna 
addressed  to  the  former  god  is  much  greater  than  that  in  which  the 
latter  is  celebrated.  But  I  have  not  discovered  any  expressions  which 

•j  1 

would  distinctly  indicate  that  the  popularity  of  thfe  one  was  waning, 
and  that  of  the  other  increasing.  There  are,  however,  some  passages 
which,  though  they  do  not  afford  any  clear  indications  in  support  of 
such  a  supposition,  are,  at  all  events,  not  inconsistent  with  its  correct- 
ness. Thus  there  are  several  hymns  in  which  Indra  is  associated  with 
Varuna213  as  an  object  of  celebration,  and  where  the  two  are  described  as 
acting  in  concert,  viz.,  i.  17  ;  iv.  41 ;  iv.  42  ;  vi.  68  ;  vii.  82 ;  vii.  83; 
vii.  84 ;  vii.  85  ;  etc. ;  and  this  association  of  the  two  might  have 
arisen  from  the  worshippers  of  Indra  desiring  to  enhance  the  dignity 
of  that  god  by  attaching  him  to  the  older  and  more  venerable  deity. 
In  vii.  34,  24,  Varuna  is  said  to  have  Indra  for  his  friend  (  Varunah 
Indrasakhd\  but  this  cannot  well" bear  the  interpretation  that  some  of 
their  worshippers  had  been  in  the  habit  of  regarding  them  as  rivals 
and  enemies,  as  in  i.  22,  19,  Vishnu  is  called  the  intimate  friend  of 
Indra  (Indrasya  yujyah  sakha).  Indra  and  Varuna  are  called  the  two 
monarchs,  samrdjd,  and  the  supporters  of  all  creatures214  (i.  17,  1,  2) ; 
fixed  in  their  designs,  dhrita-vrata  (vi.  68,  10).  Varuna  is  supplicated 
along  with  Indra  to  discharge  a  gleaming  and  violent  thunderbolt 
against  the  worshippers'  enemy  (didyum  asminn  ojishtham  ugra  ni 
vadhishtam  vqfram,  iv.  41,  4),  though  in  most  other  places  (see  above) 
Indra  alone  ip  regarded  as  the  thunderer.  In  vii.  82,  2,  it  is  said  that 
one  of  the  two,  Varuna,Gis  called  samrdt,  monarch  (as  he  is  in  various 
places,  see  above,  p.  60),  and  the  other,  Indra,  is  called  svardf,  inde- 
pendent ruler  (iii.  46,  1,  and  elsewhere  ;  see  i.  61,  9,  above) ;  and 
their  separate  relations  and  functions  are  described  in  other  parts  of 
this  and  the  following  hymns,  vii.  82,  5  :  Indrd-varund  yad  imdni 
chalcrathur  vttndjdtdni  bhuvanasya  majmand  \  kshemena  Mitro  Varunam 
duvasyati  Marudbhir  tfyrah  ^ubliam  any  ah  lyate  \  6  Ajdmim  aryah 
knaihayantam  dtirad  dablirebhir  any  ah  pra  vrinoti  bhuyasah  \  "Indra 

213  In  A.V.  iv.  25,  1,  2,  Varuna  and  Vishnu  are  worshipped  together. 

214  Dharttara  charshamnam.  The  same  epithet  is  applied  to  Mitra  and  Varuna  in  v. 
67,  2  ;  and  Varuua  is  called  charsham-dhrit,  "  supporter  of  creatures,"  in  iv,  1,  2. 


SUPEKSESSION  OF  VARUNA  BY  INDRA.  123 

and  Yaruna,  when  ye  formed  all  these  creatures  of  the  world  hy  your 
power,  Mitra  waits  upon  Yaruna  with  tranquility,  whilst  the  other 
fierce  (god  i,e.  Indra)  is  resplendent  along  with  the*  Maruts.  6.  The 
one  overcomes  the  destructive  enemy;  the  other  with  few  repels  many." 
vii.  83,  9 :  Vrittrani  anyah  samitheshu  jighnate  vratdni  anyah  abhi 
rakshate  sadd  \»  "  The  one  (Indra)  loves  to  slay  enemies  in  battle;  the 
other  (Yaruna)  always  maintains  hjs  ordinances."  vii.  84,  2  :  Part  no 
Jielo  Varunasya  vrijyah  urum  nah  Indrah  krinavad  u  lokam  \  "Do  thou 
remove  from  us  the  wrath  of  Yaruna ;  may  Indra  open  to  us  an  ample 
space."  vii.  85,  3 :  Krishtlr  anyo  dhdrayati  praviktdh  vrittrani  anyah 
apratlni  hanti  \  "  The  one  sustains  the  separate  creatures ;  the  other 
slays  unequalled  enemies."  So,  too,  their  joint  action  is  described  in 
other  verses.  Thus  they  are  said  to  have  dug  the  channels  of  the 
rivers,  to  have  impelled  the  sun  in  the  sky  (vii.  82,  3  :  aim  apdm 
Tchdni  atrintam  ojasd  d  suryam  airayatam  divi  pralhum),  and  to  have 
made  all  creatures  (ibid.  5).  All  the  other  gods  are  said  to  have 
infused  strength  and  vigour  into  these  two  in  the  highest  heaven 
(ibid.  2  :  visve  devdsah  parame  vyomani  saih  vdm  ojo  vrishand  sam  balam 
dadhuh}.  These  passages  are  consistent  with  tile  supposition  that  the 
two  gods  were  felt  to  have  been  rivals,  and  that  the  author  of  the  hymn 
sought  to  reconcile  their  conflicting  claims,  but  they  are  not  conclusive, 
for  Yishnu  and  Indra  are  also  joined  together  in  the  same  way  in  some 
hymns,  i.  155 ;  vi.  69 ;  vii.  99,  4  if.  (see  the  4th  Yol.  of  this  work,  pp. 
64,  71,  74  ff.) ;  as  are  also  Agni  and  Indra  in  others,  i.  21 ;  i.  108 ;  i. 
109  ;  iii.  12  ;  v.  86";  vi.  59  ;  Indra  and  Yayu  in  iv.  46-48  ;  Indra  and 
Puslian  in  vi.  57;  Indra  and  Soma  in  vi.  72  ;  vii.  104.  . 

A  number  of  verses  occur  in  different  parts  ,of  the  Big-veda  (viz.  i. 
133,  1 ;  iv.  23,  7  ;  v.  2,  3 ,  vii.  18,  16;  x.  27,  6;  x.  48,  7)  in  which 
the  epithet  anindra,  "one  who  is  no  worshipper  of  Indra,"  is  em- 
ployed ;  but  it  does  not  appear  that  it  is  applied  to  persons  who  were 
not  worshippers  of  Indra  in  particular,  as  distinguished  from  other 
Aryan  gods,  but  eith'er  to  the  aboriginal  tribes,  who  did  not  worship 
either  him  or  any  other  Aryan  god,  or  to  irreligious  Aryas,  or  rather, 
perhaps  generally,  to  evil  spirits  as  the  enemies  of  Indra.  In  other 
places  (as  I  have  above  noticed,  p.  104,)  we  find  sceptical  doubts  ex- 
pressed regarding  Indra. 

The  twelfth  hymn  of  the  second  book  is  devoted  to  the  glorification 


124  WHETHER  THE  HYMNS  POINT  TO  ANT 

of  Indra.  The  first  and  second  verses  are  as  follows:  1.  To  jdtah 
eva  prathamo  manasvdn  devo  devdn  kratund  paryabhushat  \  yasya  sush- 
mdd  rodasl  dbhyasetdm  nrimnasya  mahnd  sa  jandsah  Indrah  \  2.  Yah 
prithivlm  vyathamdndm  adrimJtad  yah  parvatdn  prakupitdn  aramndt  \ 
yo  antariksham  vitname  variyo  yo  dydm(  astabhndt  sa  jandsah  Indrah  j 
"1.  He  who,  as  soon  as  born,  the  first,  the  wise,  surpassed  the  gods  in 
force  :  at  whose  might  the  two  worlds  trembled,  through  the  greatness 
of  his  strength,  he,  o  men,  is  Indra.  2.  He  who  fixed  the  quivering 
earth,  who  settled  the  agitated  mountains,  who  meted  out  the  vast 
atmosphere,  who  established  the  sky, — he,  o  men,  is  Indra."  The 
following  verses  all  end  in  the  same  way,  by  declaring  that  Indra  is  he 
who  had  performed  the  several  acts,  or  possessed  the  various  powers, 
which  they  specify.  This  might  appear  as  a  polemical  assertion, 
against  gainsay ers,  of  Indra' s  claims  to  recognition  as  a  fit  object  of 
worship.215 

In  x.  48,  11,  Indra  is  introduced  as  saying:  Aditydndm  Vasundm 
rudriydndm  devo  devdndfft  na  niindmi  dhdma  \  te  ma,  lhadrdya  savase 
tatakshur  apardjitam  astritam  ashdlham  \  "I,  a  god,  do  not  assail  the 
rank  (or  glorv)  of  the  Adityas,  the  Vasus,  or  the  sons  of  Rudra,  who 
have  fashioned  me  for  glorious  power,  and  made  me  unconquerable, 
irreversible,  and  unassailable." 

In  viii.  51,  2,  it  is  said :  Ayujo  asamo  nrilJiir  ekah  knshtlr  aydsyah  \ 
purvir  ati  pra  vavridhe  visvd  jdtdni  ojasd  ityddi  \  7.  Viive  te  Indra 
vlryam  devdh  anu  kratum  daduh  \  12.  Satyam  id  vai  u  tarn  vayam 
Indram  stavdma  ndnritam  \  mahdn  asunvato  vadho  IJiuri  jyotlmshi  sun- 
vataTi  |  '^.tWithout  a  fellow,  unequalled  by  men,  Indra,  alone,  un- 
conquered,  has  surpassed  in  power  many  tribes  and  all  creatures.  7. 
All  the  gods  yield  to  the  Indra  in  valour  and  strength.  12.  May  we 
praise  Indra  truly  and  not  falsely :  great  destruction  falls  upon  him 
who  pours  out  no  libations  to  Indra,216  while  he  who  does  offer  them  is 
blessed  with  abundant  light." 

In  iv.  30,  1  ff.  Indra  is  described  as  having  no  superior  or  equal 
(Ndkir  Indra,  tvad  utfaro  na  jydydn  asti  Vrittrahan  \  nakir  eva  yathd 

215  There  is  another  hymn  (x.  86),  each  verse  of  which  ends  with  the  words  "Indra 
is  superior  to  all ;  "  but  the  drift  of  the  hymn  is  too  obscure  to  admit  of  my  deter- 
mining whether  it  has  any  polemical  tendency  or  not. 

216  This  sentiment  appears  to  be  repeated  from  i.  101,  4. 


SUPERSESSION  OF  VARUNA  BY  INDRA.  125 

tvam\  and  as  having  alone  conquered  all  the  gods  in  battle.  And  in. 
vii.  21,  7,  it  is  said  that  even  the  former  gods  subordinated  their  powers 
to  his  divine  glory  and  kingly  dignity  (devds  chit  te  asuryydya  purve 
anu  Icshattrdya  mamire  sahdmsi}.  In  the  following  passages  (formerly 
quoted  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  85  ff.),  it  is  said  that  all 
of  the  gods  .ai-e  un&ble  to  frustrate  the  mighty  deeds  and  counsels 
of  Indra  (ii.  32,  4)  j  that  no  onefc  whether  god  or  man,  either  sur- 
passes or  equals  him  (vi.  30,  4) ;  that  no  one,  celestial  or  terrestrial, 
has  been  born,  or  shall  be  born,  like  to  him  (vii.  32,  23);  and  that  by 
battle  he  has  acquired  ample  space  (or  wealth)  for  the  gods  (vii.  98,  3). 
It  is  even  said  (i.  101,  3)  that  Yaruna  and  Surya  are  subject  to  the 
command  of  Indra  (yasya  wate  Varuno  yasya  Suryah} ;  and  in  x.  89, 
8,  9,  the  latter  is  besought  to  destroy  the  enemies  of  Mitra,  Aryaman, 
and  Yaruna  (thereby  evincing,  of  course,  his  superiority  to  those  three 
gods)  (pra  ye  Mitrasya  Varunasya  dhdma  yujam  na  jandh  minanti 
Mitram  \  9.  Pra  ye  Mitram  pra  Aryamanam  durevdh  pra  sangirah  pra 
Varunam  minanti  \  ni  amitreshu  vadham  Indra  tumram  vrishan  vrishdnam 
arushafh  sislhi).  • 

All  these  texts,  however,  which  are  so  laudatory  of  Indra,  may  be 
paralleled  in  the  Rig-veda,  not  only  by  similar  ones  referring  to  Mitra 
and  Yaruna  (as  we  have  seen  above),  but  also  by  a  farther  set  of  texts, 
in  which  other  gods  are  magnified  in  the  same  style  of  panegyric. 
This  is  in  accordance  with  the  practice  of  the  Indian  poets  to  exag- 
gerate 2n  (in  a  manner  which  renders  them  often  mutually  inconsistent) 
the  attributes  of  the  particular  deity  who  happens  at  the  moment  to  be 
the  object  of  celebration.  Thus  in  ii.  38,  9,  it  is  said  that  neither 
Indra,  Varuna,  Mitra,  Aryaman,  nor  Rudra  can  resist  the  ordinance  of 
Savitri  (na  yasya  Indro  Varuno  na  Mitro  vratam  Aryamd  na  minanti 
RudraK) ;  and  in  vii.  38,  4,  that  the  divine  Aditi,  and  the  kings  Yaruna, 
Mitra,  and  Aryaman  unite  to  magnify  the  same  deity  (abhi  yam  devl 
Aditih  grinuti  savam  devasya  Savitur  jushdnd  \  abhi  samrdjo  Varuno 
grinanti  abhi  Ifitrdso  Aryamd  sajoshdli).  Again,  in  i.  156,  4,  it  is 
declared  that  king  Yaruna  and  the  Asvins  submit  to  the  power  of 
Yishnu  (tarn  asya  rdjd  Varunas  tarn  Asvind  kratutn  sachante  Mdrutasya 
vedhastth).  In  i.  141,  9,  Yaruna,  Mitra,  and  Aryaman  are  said  to 
triumph  through  Agni  when  he  blazes  forth  (tvayd  hi  Ayne  Varuno 
217  See  Mxiller's  Anc.  Ind.  Lit.  pp.  532  ff. 


126  METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  INDRA. 

dhritavrato  Mitrah  sasadre  Aryama).  In  iv.  5,  4,  the  same  god  is 
besought  to  consume  those  enemies  who  menace  the  stable  abodes S18  of 
Varuna  and  the  wise  Mitra  ( pra  tan  Agnir  labhasat  .  .  .  pro,  ye  mi- 
nanti  Varnnasya  dhdma  priyd  Mitrasya  chetato  dhruvani}.  If,  therefore, 
we  were  to  infer  from  passages  like  i.  101,  3  (which  declares  Varuna 
and  Surya  to  be  subject  to  Indra),  that  the  worship'  of  Indra  was 
beginning  to  gain  ground  on  that  qf  Varuna,  we  .should  have,  in  like 
manner,  to  conclude  from  the  other  texts  just  cited,  that  the  worship 
of  Savitri,  or  Vishnu,  or  Agni,  was  beginning  to  supersede  that  of  all 
the  other  deities  who  are  there  subordinated  to  them,  not  excepting 
Indra  himself. 

(12)  Indra  as  represented  in  the  hymns ; — a  metrical  sketch. 

In  the  following  verses  I  have  endeavoured  to  combine  in  one 
picture  the  most  salient  and  characteristic  points  in  the  represen- 
tations of  Indra,  which  are  contained  in  the  hymns.  It  will  be  seen 
that  some  parts  of  the  sketch  are  translations^  nearly  literal,  of  verses 
occurring  there ;  that , other  portions  are  condensed  summaries  of  epi- 
thets, or  descriptions,  which  are  by  far  too  numerous  and  too  similar 
to  each  other  to  be  all  reproduced  in  detail  j  and  that  a  third  class  of 
passages  contains  an  amplification,  and  not  an  approximate  rendering, 
of  the  texts  of  the  original  on  which  they  are  founded. 

(1)  Invitation  of  Indra  to  the  sacrifice. 

•      Hear,  Indra,  mighty  Thunderer,  hear,     •• 
Bright  regent  of  the  middle  sphere  ; 
List  while  we  sweetly  sing  thy  praise, 
In  new,  and  well-constructed,  lays, 
Hymns  deftly  framed  by  poet  skilled, 
As  artizans  a  chariot  build. 
Come,  Indra,  come,  thou  much-invoked, 
Our  potent  hymn  thy  steeds  has  yoked  ; 
Thy  golden  car  already  waits      • 
Thy  pleasure  at  thy  palace-gates  : 

218  Ordinances. — Roth,  s.v.  dhaman. 


METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  INDRA.  127 

Friend  Indra,  from  the  sky  descend, 
Thy  course  propitious  hither  bend ; 
Come  straight,  and  may  no  rival  priest 
Prevail  to  draw  thee  from  our  feast. 
Let  no  one  catch  thee  unawares, 
.  Likfe  bird  the  artful  fowler  snares. 
All  is  prepared  ;  tlje  Soma  draught 
Is  sweet  as  thou  hast  ever  quaffed ; 
And  we  will  feed  with  corn,  and  tend, 
Thy  coursers  at  their  journey's  end. 
But,  Indra,  though  of  us  thou  thinkest, 
And  our  libations  gladly  drinkest, 
We,  mortal  men,  can  only  share 
A  humble  portion  of  thy  care. 
"We  know  how  many  potent  ties 
Enchain  thee  in  thy  paradise. 
Thou  hast  at  home  a  lovely  wife, 
The  charm  and  solace  of  thy  life ; 
Thou  hast  a  ceaseless  round  of  joys, 
Which  all  thy  circling  hours  employs — " 
Joys  such  as  gods  immortal  know, 
Unguessed  by  mortals  here  below. 
But,  brother  Indra,  come,  benign, 
Accept  our  gifts,  thou  friend  divine. 
Come,  Indra,  come  in  eager  haste, 
Our  hymns  to  hear,  our  food  to  taste,         . 
Like  lover  lured  by  female  charms, 
"Who  rushes  to  his  mistress'  arms. 
Accept  our  sweet  and  grateful  song ; 
Come,  we  will  not  detain  thee  long. 

(2)  Indra1  s  birth. 

Hear,  Indra,  while  thy  birth  we*  sing, 
The  deeds,  thy  greatness,  glorious  king. 
Old  father  Sky219  and  mother  Earth 
Both  quaked,  confounded  at  thy  birth. 
219  Dyaus  =  Zevs. 


128  METRICAL  SKETCH  OP  INDRA. 

The  Sky  exclaimed,  at  that  great  sight, 
"  Thy  father  was  a  stalwart  wight  ; 
Of  most  consummate  skill  was  he, 
The  god  whose  genius  fashioned  thee." 
This  infant  of  unrivalled  force 
Sprang  forth  from  a  trankcendant  so.nrce. 
A  blessed  mother  bore  the  child, 
And  fondly  on  her  offspring  smiled^ 
Foretelling  then,  with  pride  and  joy, 
The  might  and'  glory  of  the  boy. 
He  needed  not  a  tedious  length 
Of  autumns  to  mature  his  strength ; 
His  force  he  felt  as  soon  as  born, 
And  laughed  all  hostile  powers  to  scorn. 
Grasping  his  deadly  shafts,  in  pride 
Of  prowess,  thus  the  infant  cried : — 
"Where,  mother,  r  dwell  those  warriors  fierce 
Whose  haughty  hearts  these  bolts  must  pierce  ?" 
And  when  thy  father  proved  thy  foe, 
1     Thy  fury,  Indra,  laid  him  low. 
Who  vainly  sought  thy  life  to  take, 
When  thou  didst  sleep,  when  thou  didst  wake  ? 
Who,  Indra,  in  his  vengeful  mood, 
Thy  mother  doomed  to  widowhood  ? 
What  god  stood  by,  thy  wrath  to  fire, 
When,  seizing  by  the  foot  thy  sire, 

Thou  smot'st  him  dead,  in  youthful  ire  ?  ' 
r 

(3)  Indra  s  arrival. 

Fulfilling  now  our  ardent  prayer, 
The  god  approaches  through  the  air. 
On,  on,  he  comes,  majestic,  bright, 
Our  longed-for  friend  appears  in  sight. 
His  brilliant  form,  beheld  afar, 
Towers  stately  on  his  golden  car. 
Fair  sunlike  lustre,  godlike  grace, 
And  martial  fire  illume  his  face. 


METEICAL    SKETCH   OF   INDRA.  129 

Yet  not  one  form  alone  he  bears, 
But  various  shapes  of  glory  wears, 
His  aspects  changing  at  his  will, 
Transmuted,  yet  resplendent  still. 
In  warlike  semblance  see  him  stand, 
.  Red.lightnings  wielding  in  his  hand. 

The  heavenly  steeds,  his  shining  team, 

•  '• 

With  all  the  peacock's  colours  gleam. 

Resistless,  snorting,  on  they  fly, 
As  swift  as  thought,  across  the  sky  ; 
And  soon  hring  nigh  their  mighty  lord, 
To  us,  his  friends,  a  friend  adored. 
Now  Indra  from  the  sky  descends  ; 
Yes,  yes,  to  us  his  way  he  wends. 
Although  we  see  him  not,  we  know 
He  now  is  present  here  below. 
"Within  our  hallowed  precincts  placed, 
He  longs  our  grateful  feast  to  taste. 

> 
(4)  Indra  invited  to  drink  the  Soma  draught. 

Thou,  Indra,  oft  of  old  hast  quaffed 
"With  keen  delight  our  Soma  draught. 
All  gods  the  luscious  Soma  love, 
But  thou  all  other  gods  above. 
Thy  mother  knew  how  well  this  juice 
"Was  fitted  for  her  infant's  use. 
*  Into  a  cup  she  crushed  the  sap, 
"Which  thou  didst  sip  upon  her  lap. 
Yes,  Indra,  on  thy  natal  morn, 
The  very  hour  that  thou  wast  born, 
Thou  didst  those  jovial  tastes  display 
"Which  still  survive  in  strength  to-day. 
And  once,  thou  prince  of  genial  souls, 
Men  say  thou  drainedst  thirty  bowls. 
To  thee  the  soma-draughts  proceed, 
As  streamlets  to  the  lake  they  feed, 
Or  rivers  to  the  ocean  speed. 


130  METRICAL    SKETCH    OF    INDRA. 

Our  cup  is  foaming  to  the  brim 
With  Soma  pressed  to  sound  of  hymn. 
Come,  drink,  thy  utmost  craving  slake, 
Like  thirsty  stag  in  forest  lake, 
Or  bull  that  roams  in  arid  waste, 
And  burns  the  cooling  b'rook  to  taste. 
Indulge  thy  taste,  and  quaff  at  will ; 
Drink,  drink  again,  profusely  swill, 
Drink,  thy  capacious  stomach  fill. 

(5)  Praise  of  Soma. 

This  Soma  is  a  god ;  he  cures 
The  sharpest  ills  that  man  endures. 
He  heals  the  sick,  the  sad  he  cheers, 
He  nerves  the  weak,  dispels  their  fears, 
The  faint  with  martial  ardour  fires, 
"With  lofty  thoughts  the  bard  inspires, 
The  soul  from  earth  to  heaven  he  lifts  ; 
So  great  and  wondrous  are  his  gifts. 
Men  feel  the  god  within  their  veins, 
And  cry  in  loud  exulting  strains : 
"  We've  quaffed  the  Soma  bright, 
And  are  immortal  grown ; 
We've  entered^into  light, 
And  all  the  gods  have  known. 
What  mortal  now  can  harm, 
Or  foeman  vex  us  more  ? 
Through  thee  beyond  alarm, 
Immortal  god,  we  soar." 
The  gods  themselves  with  pleasure  feel 
King  Soma's  influence  o'er  them  steal ; 
And  Indra  once,  as  bards  have  told, 
Thus  gang  in  merry  mood  of  old  : — 

(6)  Indra1  s  drinking-song. 

11  Yes,  yes,  I  will  be  generous  now, 
And  grant  the  bard  a  horse  and  cow  : 


METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  INDRA.  131 

I've  quaffed  the  soma-draught. 

These  draughts  impel  me  with  the  force 

Of  blasts  that  sweep  in  furious  course  : 

I've  quaffed  the  soma-draught. 

They  drive  me  like  a  car  that  speeds, 

When  whirled  along  by  flying  steeds. 

These  h^rnns  approach,  me  fondly  now, 

As  hastes  to  calf  the  mother-cow. 

I  turn  them  over  as  I  muse, 

As  carpenter  the  log  he  hews. 

The  tribes  of  men,  the  nations  all, 

I  count  as  something  very  small. 

Both  worlds,  how  vast  soe'er  they  be, 

Don't  equal  even  the  half  of  me. 

The  heaven  in  greatness  I  surpass, 

And  this  broad  earth,  though  vast  her  mass, 

Come,  let  me  as  a  plaything  seize, 

And  toss  her  wheresoe'er  I  please. 

Come,  let  me  smite  with  vigorous  blow, 

And  send  her  flying  to  and  fro. 

My  half  is  in  the  heavenly  sphere, 

I've  drawn  the  other  half  down  here. 

How  great  my  glory  and  my  power ! 

Aloft  into  the  skies  I  tower." 

I'm  ready  now  to  mount  in  air, 

Oblations  to  the  gods  to  bear  :  . 

I've  quaffed  the  Soma-draught.220  f 

(7)  Indra  drinks  the  libation. 

And  not  in  vain  the  mortal  prays, 
For  nothing  loth  the  god  obeys, 

The  proffered  bowl  he  takes ; 
"Well  trained  the  generous  juice  to  (Jrain, 
He  quaffs  it  once,  he  quaffs  again, 

Till  all  his  thirst  he  slakes. 

220  This  "  drinking  song  "  is  .a  translation,  as  we  have  already  seen,  p.  91,  nearly 
literal,  of  the  119th  hymn  of  the  10th  Book  of  the  Rig-veda. 


132  METRICAL    SKETCH  OF  INDRA. 

And  soon  its  power  the  Soma  shows, 
Through  Indra's  veins  the  influence  flows, 

With  fervour  flushed  he  stands  ; 
His  forehead  glows,  his  eyes  are  fired, 
His  mighty  frame  with  force  inspired, 

His  towering  form  expands. 
He  straightway  calls  hi?  brave  allies,  ( 
To  valorous  deeds  exhorts,  and  cries — 

"  Stride,  Vishnu,  forward  stride  ; 
Come,  Maruts,  forth  with  me  to  war, 
See  yonder  Vrittra  stands  afar, 
And  waits  the  coming  of  my  car ; 

We  soon  shall  crush  his  pride." 

(8)  Indira,  attended  by  the  Maruts,  sets  out  to  encounter  Vrittra. 

Amid  the  plaudits,  long  and  loud, 
Which  burst  from  all  the  heavenly  crowd, 
Charmed  by  the  sweet  and  magic  sound 
Of  hymns'-pronounced  by  bards  renowned, 
Viewed  by  admiring  troops  of  friends, 
The  valiant  god  his  car  ascends. 
Swept  by  his  fervid  bounding  steeds, 
Athwart  the  sky  the  hero  speeds. 
The  Marut-hosts  his  escort  form, 
Impetuous  spirits  of  the  storm. 
,0n  flashing  lightning-cars  they  ride, 
And  gleam, in  warlike  pomp  and  pride  : 
Each  head  a  golden  helmet  crests, 
And  glittering  mail  adorns  their  breasts; 
Spears  on  their  shoulders  rest,  their  hands 
Bear  arrows,  bows,  and  lightning-brands. 
Bright  tinkling  anklets  deck  their  feet, 
And  thought  than  they  is  not  more  fleet ; 
Like  lions'  roar  their  voice  of  doom  ; 
With  iron  force  their  teeth  consume. 
The  hills,  the  earth  itself,  they  shake, 
All  creatures  at  their  coming  quake ; 


METRICAL   SKETCH  OF  INDRA.  133 

Their  headlong  fury  none  can  stay, 
All  obstacles  are  swept  away. 
The  forest's  leafy  monarchs  tall 
Before  their  onset  crashing  fall, 
As  when  in  fierce  destructive  mood 
Wild  elephants  invade  a  wood. 

•  • 

(9)  Indra's  conflict  with  Vritira. 

Who  is  it  that,  without  alarm, 
Defies  the  might  of  Indra's  arm  ; 
That  stands  and  sees  without  dismay 
The  approaching  Maruts'  dread  array ; 
That  does  not  shun,  in  wild  affright, 
The  terrors  of  the  deadly  fight  ? 
'Tis  Vrittra,221  he  whose  magic  powers 
From  earth  withhold  the 'genial  showers, 
Of  mortal  men  the  foe  malign, 

And  rival  of  the  race  divine,  ' 

• 
Whose  demon  hosts  from  age  to  age 

With  Indra  war  unceasing  wage, 
Who,  times  unnumbered,  crushed  and  slain, 
Is  ever  newly  born  again, 
And  evermore  renews  the  strife 
In  which  again  he  forfeits  life. 
Perched  on  a  steep  aerial  height,  . 

Shone  Vrittra's  stately  fortress  bright. 
Upon  the  wall,  in  martial  mood, 
The  bold  gigantic  demon  stood, 
Confiding  in  his  magic  arts, 
And  armed  with  store  of  fiery  darts. 
And  then  was  seen  a  dreadful  sight, 
When  god  and  demon  met  in  fight.* 
His  sharpest  missiles  Yrittra  shot, 
His  thunderbolts  and  lightnings  hot 
He  hurled  as  thick  as  rain,. 

221  The  demon  who  personifies  drought,  and  is  also  called  S'ushna  and  AM. 


134  METRICAL    SKETCH    OF    INDRA. 

The  god  his  fiercest  rage  defied, 
His  blunted  weapons  glanced  aside, 

At  Indra  launched  in  vain. 
When  thus  he  long  had  vainly  toiled, 
When  all  his  weapons  had  recoiled, 
His  final  efforts  had  been  foiled, 

And  all  his  force  consumed, — 
In  gloomy  and  despairing  mood 
The  baffled  demon  helpless  stood, 

And  knew  his  end  was  doomed. 
The  lightnings  then  began  to  flash, 
The  direful  thunderbolts  to  crash, 

By  Indra  proudly  hurled. 
The  gods  themselves  with  awe  were  stilled 
And  stood  aghast,  and  terror  filled 

The  universal  world. 
Even  Tvashtri  sage,  whose  master-hand 
Had  forged  the  bolts  his  art  had  planned, 
(  Who  well  their  temper  knew, — 
Quailed  when  he  heard  the  dreadful  clang 
That  through  the  quivering  welkin  rang, 

As  o'er  the  sky  they  flew. 
And  who  the  arrowy  shower  could  stand, 
Discharged  by  Indra's  red  right  hand, — 
The  thunderbolts  with  hundred  joints, 
The  iron  shafts  with  thousand  points, 
Which  blazr  and  hiss  athwart  the  sky, 
Swift  to  their  mark  unerring  fly, 
And  lay  the  proudest  foemen  low, 
With  sudden  and  resistless  blow, 
Whose  very  sound  can  put  to  flight 
The  fools  who  dare  the  Thunderer's  might  ? 
And  soon  the  knell  of  Yrittra's  doom 
Was  sounded  by  the  clang  and  boom 

Of  Indra's  iron  shower ; 
Pierced,  cloven,  cashed,  with  horrid  yell, 
The  dying  demon  headlong  fell 


METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  INDKA.  135 

i 

Down  from  his  cloud-built  tower. 

Now  bound  by  S'ushna's  spell  no  more, 
The  clouds  discharge  their  liquid  store  ; 
And,  long  by  torrid  sunbeams  baked, 
The  plains  by  copious  showers  are  slaked ; 
The  rivers  swell,  and  sea-ward  sweep 
Their  turbid  torrents  Ijroad  and  deep. 
The  peasant  views,  with  deep  delight 
And  thankful  heart,  the  auspicious  sight. 
His  leafless  fields,  so  sere  and  sad, 
Will  soon  with  waving  crops  be  clad, 
And  mother  Earth,  now  brown  and  bare, 
A  robe  of  brilliant  green  will  wear. 
And  now  the  clouds  disperse,  the  blue 
Of  heaven  once  more  comes  forth  to  view. 
The  sun  shines  out,  all  nature  smiles, 
Redeemed  from  Vrittra's  "power  and  wiles  ; 
The  gods,  with  gratulations  meet, 
And  loud  acclaim,  the  victor  greet ;' 
While  Indra's  mortal  votaries  sing 
The  praises  of  their  friend  and  king. 
The  frogs,  too,  dormant  long,  awake, 
And  floating  on  the  brimming  lake, 
In  loud  responsive  croak  unite, 
And  swell  the  chorus  of  delight. 

(10)  Indra's  greatness. 
» 
What  poet  now,  what  sage  of  old, 

The  greatness  of  that  god  hath  told, 
Who  from  his  body  vast  gave  birth 
To  father  Sky  and  mother  Earth  ; 
Who  hung  the  heavens  in  empty  space, 
And  gave  the  earth  a  stable  base  ;  • 
Who  framed  and  lighted  up  the  sun, 
And  made  a  path  for  him  to  run  ; 
Whose  power  transcendent,  since  their  birth 
Asunder  holds  the  heaven  and  earth, 


136  METRICAL    SKETCH    OF    INDRA. 

As  chariot- wheels  are  kept  apart 
By  axles  framed  by  workmen's  art  ? 
In  greatness  who  with  Him  can  vie, 
Who  fills  the  earth,  the  air,  the  sky, 
Whose  presence  unperceived  extends 
Beyond  the  world's  remotest  ends  ? 
A  hundred  earths,  if  suoh  there  he, 
A  hundred  skies  fall  short  of  thee  ; 
A  thousand  suns  would  not  outshine 
The  effulgence  of  thy  light  divine. 
The  worlds,  which  mortals  houndless  deem, 
To  thee  hut  as  a  handful  seem. 
Thou,  Indra,  art  without  a  peer 
On  earth,  or  yonder  heavenly  sphere. 
Thee,  god,  such  matchless  powers  adorn, 
That  thou  without  a  foe  wast  born. 
Thou  art  the  universal  lord, 
By  gods  revered,  by  men  adored. 
Should  all  the  other  gods  conspire, 
They  could  not  frustrate  thy  desire. 
The  circling  years,  which  wear  away 
All  else,  to  thee  bring  no  decay  ; 
Thou  bloomest  on  in  youthful  force, 
While  countless  ages  run  their  course. 
Unvexed  by  cares,  or  fears,  or  strife, 
In  bliss  serene  flows  on  thy  life. 

r 

(11)  Indra1  s  relations  to  his  worshippers. 

Thou,  Indra,  art  a  friend,  a  brother, 
A  kinsman  dear,  a  father,  mother. 
Though  thou  hast  troops  of  friends,  yet  we 
Can  boast  n'o  other  friend  but  thee. 
With  this  our  hymn  thy  skirt  we  grasp, 
As  boys  their  father's  garments  clasp  ; 
Our  ardent  prayers  thy  form  embrace, 
As  women's  arms  their  lords  enlace ; 


METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  INDRA.  137 

They  round  thee  cling  with  gentle  force, 

Like  saddle-girth  around  a  horse. 

"With  faith  we  claim  thine  aid  divine, 

For  thou  art  ours,  and  we  are  thine. 

Thou  art  not  dea£;  though  far  away, 

Thou  hearest  all,  whate'er  we  pray. 

And  b«  not  like  a  lazy  priest, 

Who  battens  at  the  dainty  feast, 

Sits  still  in  self-indulgent  ease, 

And  only  cares  himself  to  please. 

Come,  dole  not  out  with  niggard  hand 

The  brilliant  boons  at  thy  command. 

Thy  gracious  hands  are  wont  to  grant 

Profusely  all  thy  servants  want. 

"Why  is  it,  then,  thou  sittest  still, 

And  dost  not  now  our  hopes  fulfil  ? 

If  I  were  thou,  and  thou  wert  I, 

My  suppliant  should  not  vainly  cry. 

Wert  thou  a  mortal,  I  divine,  , 

In  want  I  ne'er  would  let  thee  pine. 

Had  I,  like  thee,  unbounded  power, 

I  gifts  on  all  my  friends  would  shower. 

Shed  wealth,  as  trees,  when  shaken,  rain 

Their  ripe  fruit  down  upon  the  plain. 

Thy  strong  right  hand,  great  god,  we  hold 

With  eager  grasp,  imploring  gold.  • 

Thou  canst  our  longings  all  fulfil? 

If  such  shall  only  be  thy  will. 

Like  headlong  bull's,  thy  matchless  force 

Strikes  all  things  down  that  bar  thy  course. 

Art  thou  to  gracious  acts  inclined  ? 

Then  who  shall  make  thee  change  thy  mind  ? 

Abundant  aids  shoot  forth  from  thee, 

As  leafy  boughs  from  vigorous  tree. 

To  wifeless  men  thou  givest  wives, 

And  joyful  mak'st  their  joyless  lives. 


138  METRICAL    SKETCH    OF    INDRA. 

Thou  givest  sons,  courageous,  strong, 

To  guard  their  aged  sires  from  wrong. 

Lands,  jewels,  horses,  herds  of  kine, — 

All  kinds  of  wealth  are  gifts  of  thine. 

Thy  friend  is  never  slain  ;  his,  might 

Is  never  worsted  in  the  fight. 

Yes,  those  who  in  the  battle's  shock,      t 

Thine  aid,  victorious  god,  invoke, 

"With  force  inspired,  with  deafening  shout 

Of  triumph,  put  their  foes  to  rout. 

Thou  blessest  those  thy  praise  who  sing, 

And  plenteous  gifts  devoutly  bring ; 

But  thou  chastisest  all  the  proud, 

The  niggard,  and  the  faithless  crowd, 

Who  thine  existence  doubt,  and  cry 

In  scorn,  "  No  Indra  rules  on  high." 

The  rich  can  ne'er  thy  "favourites  be, 

The  rich  who  never  think  of  thee. 

"When  storms  are  lulled,  and  skies  are  bright, 

Wine-swillers  treat  thee  with  despite. 

When  clouds  collect  and  thunders  roar, 

The  scoffers  tremble  and  adore. 

No  deed  is  done  but  thou  dost  see  ; 

No  word  is  said  unheard  by  thee. 

The  fates  of  mortals  thou  dost  wield ; 

To  thy  decree  the  strongest  yield. 

Thou  dost  the  high  and  fierce  abase, 

The  lowly  raisest  in  their  place. 

But  thy  true  friends  secure  repose, 

By  thee  redeemed  from  all  their  woes, 

From  straits  brought  forth  to  ample  room, 

To  glorious  light  from  thickest  gloom. 

And  thou  dost  view  with  special  grace, 

The  fair-complexioned  Aryan  race, 

Who  own  the  gods,  their  laws  obey, 

And  pious  homage  duly  pay. 


METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  IXDRA.  139 

Thou  giv'st  us  horses,  cattle,  gold, 

As  thou  didst  give  our  sires  of  old. 

Thou  sweep'st  away  the  dark-skinned  brood, 

Inhuman,  lawless,  senseless,  rude, 

"Who  know  not  lydra,  hate  his  friends, 

And  spoil  the  race  which  he  defends. 

Chase,  *far  away  the  Jobbers  chase, 

Slay  those  barbarians  hlack  and  base  ; 

And  save  us,  Indra,  from  the  spite 

Of  sprites  that  haunt  us  in  the  night, 

Our  rites  disturb  by  contact  vile, 

Our  hallowed  offerings  defile. 

Preserve  us,  friend,  dispel  our  fears, 

And  let  us  live  a  hundred  years. 

And  when  our  earthly  course  we've  run, 

And  gain'd  the  region  of  the  Sun, 

Then  let  us  live  in  ceaseless  glee, 

Sweet  nectar  quaffing  there  with  thee. 


140 


SECTION    VII. 

PARJANYA. 

The  following  hymn,  K.V.  v.  83,  affords  a  picturesque  description  of 
Parjanya,  the  thundering  rain-god  : 

v.  83,  1.  Achha  vada  tavasam  glrlhir  dlhih  stuhi  Parjanyam  namasd 
dvivdsa  |  kanikradad  vrishabho  jlraddnuh  reto  dadhdti  oshadhlshu  gar- 
ITiam  |  2.  Vi  vrikshdn  hanti  uta  hanti  rakshaso  visvam  lilhdya  Ihuvanam 
mahdvadhdt  \  uta  andgdh  Ishate  vrishnydvato  yat  Parjanyah  stanayan 
hanti  dushkritah  \  3.  Rathlva  Icasayd  'svdn  abhikshipann  dvir  dutdn 
Ttrinute  varshydn  aha  \  durdt  simhasya  stanathdh  ud  irate  yat  Parjanyah 
Tcrinute  varshyafy  nabhah  \  4.  Pra  vdtdh  vdnti  patayanti  vidyutah  ud 
oshadhlr  jihate  pinvate  svah  \  ird  vUvasmai  bhuvandya  jdyate  yat  Par- 
janyah prithivim  retasd  'vati  \  5.  Yasya  vrate  prithwl  namnamlti  yasya 
vrate  saphavaj  jarlhurlti  \  yasya  vrate  oshadhlr  m'svarupdh  sa  nah  Par- 
janya mahi  iarma  yachha  \  6.  J)ivo  no  vrishtim  Maruto  randhvam  pra 
pinvata  vrishno  asvasya  dhdrdh  \  arvdn  etena  stanayitnund  d  ihi  apo 
ni&hlnchann  asurah  pita  nah  \  7.  Abhi  kranda  stanaya  garlham  d  dhdh 
udanvatd  pari  'My a  rathena  \  dritim  su  karsha  nishitam  nyancham  samdh 
lhavantu  udvato  nipdddh  f\  8.  Mahdntam  kosam  ud  acha  nishincha  syan- 
dantdm  Iculydh  vishitdh  purastdt  \  ghritena  dydvd-prithivl  vi  undhi 
suprapdnam  bhavatu  aghnydlhyah  \  9.  Yat  Parjanya  kanikradat  stana- 
yan namsi  dushlcritah  \  prati  idam  visvam  modate  yat  kincha  prithivydm 
adhi  |  10.  Avar  shir  varsham  ud  u  su  grilhdya  akar  dhanvdni  ati 
etavai  u  \  ajijanah  oshadhlr  Ihojandya  kam  uta  prajdbhyo  avido  ma- 
nlshdm  \ 

1.  "Address  the  powerful  (god)  with  these  words;  laud  Prajanya  ; 

worship  him  with  reverence  :  the  procreative  and  stimulating  fructifier, 

resounding,  sheds  his  seed  and  impregnates  the  plants.     2.  He  splits 

the  trees,  he  destroys  the  Eakshases ;  the  whole  creation  is  afraid  of 


PARJANYA.  141 

the  mighty  stroke ;  even  the  innocent  man  flees  before  the  vigorous 
god,  when  Parjanya  thundering  smites  the  evil  doers.222  3.  Like  a 
charioteer  urging  forward  his  horses  with  a  whip,  the  god  brings  into 
view  his  showery  scouts.  From  afar  the  lion's  roarings  arise,  when 
Parjanya  charges  the  clouds  with  rain.  4.  The  winds  blow,  the 
lightnings  fajl,  th«  plants  shflot  up ;  the  heaven  fructifies  ;  food  is  pro- 
duced for  all  created  things,  when  Parjanya,  thundering,  replenishes 
the  earth  with  moisture.  5.  Parjanya,  before  whose  agency  the  earth 
bows  down,  at  whose  operation  all  hoofed  cattle  quiver ;  by  whose 
action  plants  (spring  up)  of  every  form ;  do  thou  grant  us  thy  mighty 
protection.  6.  Grant  to  us,  Maruts,  the  rain  of  the  sky ;  replenish 
the  streams  of  the  procreative  horse  ;  come  hither  with  this  thy  ' 
thunder,  our  divine  father,  shedding  waters.  7.  Resound,  thunder, 
impregnate,  rush  hither  and  thither  with  thy  watery  chariot.  Draw 
on  forward  with  thee  thy  opened  and  inverted  water-skin ;  let  the  hills 
and  dales  be  levelled.  8.  Eaise  aloft  thy  vast  water-vessel,  and  pour 
down  showers ;  let  the  discharged  rivulets  roll  on  forward ;  moisten  the 
heaven  and  earth  with  fatness ;  let  there  be  well-filled  drinking-places 
for  the  cows.  9.  When  thou,  Parjanya,  resounding  and  thundering, 
dost  slay  the  evil-doers,  the  whole  universe  rejoices,  whatever  lives  upon 
the  earth.  10.  Thou  hast  shed  down  rain;  now  desist;  thou  hast 
made  the  waterless  wastes  fit  to  be  traversed ;  thou  hast  generated 
plants  for  food,  and  thou  hast  fulfilled  the  desires  of  living  creatures."223 
Parjanya  is  also  celebrated  in  two  otjher  hymns  of  the  Rig-veda,  viz., 
vii.  101,  102.  The  latter  consists  of  only  three  verses,  and  the  former 
is  less  spirited  and  poetical  than  that  which  I  have  translated.  It 
assigns  to  Parjanya,  however,  several  grander  epithets  and  functions 
than  are  found  in  the  other,  as  it  represents  this  deity  as  the  lord  of 
all  moving  creatures  (vii.  101,  2  :  yo  visvasya  jagato  devah  Ise} ;  declares 

222  There  does  not  seem  to  be  any  sufficient  reason  to  understand  evildoers  here, 
and  in  verse  9,  of  the  cloud  demons,  who  withold  rain,  or  simply  of  the  malignant 
clouds,  as  Sayana  in  his  explanation  of  verse  9  (papakrito  meghan)  does.     The  poe^ 
may  naturally  have  supposed  that  it  was  exclusively  or  principally  £he  wicked  who 
were  struck  down  by  thunderbolts.     Dr.  Biihler  thinks'the  cloud-demons  are  meant 
(Orient  und  Occident,  i.  217,  note  2). 

223  This  last  clause  is  translated  according  to  Professor  Roth's  explanation,  s.v . 
manlsha.     Wilson,  following  Sayana,  renders  "  verily  thou  hast  obtained  laudation 
from  the  people,"  and  Dr.  Buhler  gives  the  same  sense  :  "  thou  hast  received  praise 
from  the  creatures."     Prajabhyah  may  of  course  be  either  a  dative  or  ablative. 


142  PAKJANYA. 

that  all  worlds  (or  creatures),  and  the  three  spheres  abide  in  him  (ihid. 
4  :  yasmin  visvani  bhuvanani  tasthus  tisro  dydvaK) ;  that  in  him  is  the 
soul  of  all  things  moving  and  stationary  ^  (ibid.  6  :  tasminn  dtma 
jagatas  tastusha$  oho) ;  and  designates  him  as  the  independent  monarch 
(ibid.  5  :  svaraje).  In  vii.  102,  1,  he  is  called  the  son  of  Dyaus  or  the 
Sky  (Divas  putrdya}.  Parjanya  is  also  mentioned  in  varjous  detached 
verses  in  the  R.V.,  viz.  iv.  57,  8 ;  v.  63,  4,  6 ;  vi.  52,  6 ;  vii.  35,  10 ; 
viii.  6,  1;  viii.  21,  18;  ix.  2,  9;  ix.  22,  2;  x.  66,  6;  x.  98,  1,  8; 
x.*169,  2.  Invi.  49,  6;  vi.  50,  12;  x.  65,  9;  x.  66,  10,  he  is  con- 
joined with  Vata  the  wind  (Parjanya-vdtd,  Vdtd-parjanyd\  and  in  vi. 
52,  16,  with  Agni  (Agniparjanyau).  In  ix.  82,  3,  he  is  called  the 
father  of  the  great  leafy  plant  soma  (Par j any  ah  pita  mahishasya  par- 
ninah  \  compare  ix.  113,  3). 

Parjanya  forms  the  subject  of  two  papers  by  Dr.  G.  Biihler,  the  one 
in  English  in  the  Transactions  of  the  London  Philological  Society  for 
1859,  pp.  154  ff.,  and  the  other  in  German  in  Benfey's  Orient  und 
Occident,  vol.  i.  (1862)  pp.  214  ff.,  The  latter  of  these  papers  is  not 
however,  a  translation  of  the  former.  The  former  contains  an  English 
version  of  the  hymns  K..V.  v.  83  ;  vii.  101,  and  vii.  102 ;  to  which  the 
German  article0 adds  a  translation  of  A.V.  iv.  15,  a  hymn  consisting  of 
sixteen  verses.  The  English  paper  contains  a  comparison  of  Parjanya 
with  the  Lithuanian  god  Perkunas,  the  god  of  thunder,  which  is  not 
reproduced  in  the  German  essay.  Dr.  Biihler  holds  Parjanya  to  have 
been  decidedly  distinct  from  Indra  (Transact.  Phil.  Soc.  p.  167,  and 
Or.  und  Occ.  229).  In  the  English  paper  he  says  (p.  161) :  "  Taking 
a  review  of  the  whole,  we  find  that  Parjanya  is  a  god  who  presides 
over  the  lightning,  the  thunder,  the  rain,  and  the  procreati'on  of  plants 
and  living  creatures.  But  it  is  by  no  means  clear  whether  he  is  ori- 
ginally a  god  of  the  rain,  or  a  god  of  the  thunder."  He  inclines  how- 
ever to  think  that  from  the  etymology  of  his  name,  and  the  analogy 
between  him  and  Perkunas,  he  was  originally  the  thunder-god  (pp. 
,161-167).  ,In  his  German  essay,  his  conclusion  is  (p.  226)  that 
Parjanya  is  "the  god  of  thunderstorms  and  rain,  the  generator  and 
nourisher  of  plants  and  living  creatures." 

224  Compare  i.  115,  1,  where  the  same  thing  is  said  of  Surya. 


113 


SECTION    YIII. 
•  » 

VAYTJ. 

Yayu,  the  wind,  as  we  have  already  seen,  is  often  associated  with 
Indra.  See  also  i.  2,  4 ;  i.  14,  3;  i.  23,  2;  i.  135,  4ff.  (a  vain  ratJio 
niyutvdn  vahshad  avase  abhi  praydmsi  sudhitdni  vltaye  vdyo  Jiavydni 
mtaye  \  pilatam  madhvo  andhasah  purvapeyam  hi  vdm  hitam  \  "Let 
your  car  with  team  of  horses  bring  you  to  our  aid ;  and  to  the  offerings 
which  are  well-arranged  for  eating ;  Yayu,  the  oblations  (are  well-ar- 
ranged) for  eating.  Drink  of  the  soma,  for  to  you  twain  belongs  the 
right  to  take  the  first  draught;"  and  see  the  next  verse);  i.  139,  1  ;  ii. 
41,  3  ;  iv.  46,  2ff. ;  iv.  47,  2  ff. ;  v.  51,  4,  6  f. ;  vii.  90,  5  ff. ;  vii.  91,  4  ff. ; 
x.  65,  9  ;  x.  141,  4.  The  two  gods  appear  to  have  been  Regarded  by  the 
ancient  expositors  of  the  Yeda  as  closely  connected  with  each  other ; 
for  the  Nairuktas,  as  quoted  by  Yaska  (Nirukta,  vii.  5),  while  they  fix 
upon  Agni  and  Surya  as  the  representatives  of  the  terrestrial  and 
celestial  gods  respectively,  speak  of  Yayu  and  Indra  in  conjunction,  as 
deities,  either  of  whom  may  represent  those  of  the  intermediate  sphere  : 
Tisrah  eva  devatdh  iti  Nairuktdh  Agnih  prithivl-sthdno  Vdyur  vd  Indro 
vd  antariksfia-sthdnah  silryo  dyu-sthdnah  \  "  There  are  \hree  gods  ac- 
cording to  the  Nairuktas,  viz.,  Agni,  whose  place  is  on  earth,  Yayu,  or 
Indra,  whose  place  is  in  the  air,  and  Surya,  whose  place  is  in  the 
heaven,"  etc. 

Yayu  does  not  occupy  a  very  prominent  place  in  the  Rig-veda.  If 
we  except  the  allegorical  description  in  the  Purusha  Siikta,  x.  90,  13,. 
where  he  is  said  to  have  sprung  from  the  brqath  of  Purusha  (prdndd 
Vdyur  ajdyata),  or  unless  we  understand  vii.  90,  3  (rdye  nu  yam  jajnatuh, 
rodasl  ime  \  "He  whom  the  two  worlds  generated  for  wealth")  to 
assert  that  he  was  produced  by  heaven  and  earth,  I  am  aware  of  no 
passage  where  the  parentage  of  Yayu  is  declared.  He  is,  however, 


144  VATU. 

said  to  be  the  son-in-law  of  Tvashtri  (viii.  26,  21  f.  tava  Vayo  ritaspate 
Tvashtur  jdmdtar  adbhuta  |  avdmsi  a  vrimmahe  \  22.  Tvashtur  j'dmd- 
taram  vayam  isdnam  rdyah  Imahe  \  sutdvanto  Vdyum  dyumnd  jandsah  \ 
21.  "We  ask  thy  succours,  o  Yayu,  lord  of  rites,  wondrous  son-in- 
law  of  Tvashtri.  22.  "We  men  offering  libations  resort  to  Yayu, 
Tvashtri' s  son-in-law,  the  lord  of  wealth,  and f seek,, for  splendour"); 
but  his  wife's  name  is  not  given.225  But  few  epithets  are  applied  to 
him.  He  is  called  darsata,  "sightly,"  "beautiful,*'  or  "conspiuous" 
(i.  2,  1),  and  supsarastama,  "most  handsome  in  form"  (viii.  26, 
24).  He  is  naturally  described  as  krandad-ishfi,  "rushing  noisily 
onwards"  (x.  100,  2).  Together  with  Indra,  he  is  designated  as  touch- 
ing the  sky,  swift  as  thought,  wise,  thousand-eyed  (divisprisd,  manojavd, 
viprd,  sahasrdkshd,  i.  23,  2,  3).  He  moves  in  a  shining  car,  drawn  by 
a  pair  of  red  or  purple  horses  (i.  134,  3 :  Vdyur  yunkte  rohitd  Vdyur 
arund],  or  by  several  teams  of  horses,  chandrena  rathena,  niyutvatd 
rathena  (iv.  48,  1 ;  i.  134,  1  ;  i.  135,  4;  iv.  47,  1),  His  team  is  often 
said  to  consist  of  ninety-nine,  of  a  hundred,  or  even  of  a  thousand  horses, 
yoked  by  his  will,  i.  135,  1,  3  (sahasrena  nlyutd  \  niyudbhih  satinllhih  \ 
sahasrimbhih  |);  ii.  41,  1  (sahasrino  rathdsah] ;  iv.  48,  4,  5  (vahantu 
tvd  manoyujo  tfitktdso  navatir  nava) ;  vii.  91,  6  ;  vii.  92,  1,  5.  As  before 
mentioned  (p.  85),  Indra  and  Vayu  frequently  occupy  the  same  chariot, 
iv.  46,  2;  iv.  48,  2  (Indra-sdrathih  \  Vayo};  vii.  91,  5  (Indravdyu 
saratham  ydtam  arvdk],  which  has  its  framework  of  gold,  which 
touches  the  sky,  and  is  drawn«  by  a  thousand  horses,  iv.  46,  3,  4  (a 
vdm  sahasram  harayah  Indravdyu  abhi  prayah  \  vahantu  somapltaye  \ 
ratham  hiranyavandhuram226  Indravdyu  svadharam  \  d  hi  sthutho  divi- 
sprisawt).  Vayu,  like  the  other  gods,  is  a  drinker  of  soma.'  In  fact,  he 
alone,  or  in  conjunction  with  Indra,  was,  by  the  admission  of  the  other 
gods,  entitled  to  the  first  draught  of  this  libation,  i.  134,  1 ;  i.  135,  1,  4 
(tubhyam  hi  purvapltaye  devdh  devdya  yemire  \  4.  Purvapeyam  hi  vdm 
hitam);  iv.  46,  1  (tvam  hi  purvapdh  asi};  v.  43,  3;  vii.  92,  2  (pra 
,yad  vdm  madhvah  agriyam  bharanti  adhvaryavah] ;  viii.  26,  25. 227  It  is 

223  Siiyana  gives  no  help.  £Ie  merely  says :  esha  kathn  itihasadibhir  avagantavya  \ 
"This  story  is  to  be  learned  from  the  Itihusas,  etc."  In  the  Section  on  Tvashtri  we 
shall  see  that  according  to  E.V.  x.  17,  1  f.  he  had  a  daughter  called  Saranyu,  who 
was  the  wife  of  Vivasvat ;  but  Vivasvat  is  not  identical  with  Vayu. 

226  Regarding  the  word  vandhura  see  a  note  in  thu  Section  on  the  As'vins. 

227  On  this  subject  we  find  the  following  story  in  the  Aitareya  BrShmana,  ii.  25  : 


VAYU,    HYMNS  ADDRESSED   TO   HIM.  145 

remarkable  that  Yayu  is  but  rarely  connected  with  the  Maruts  or 
deities  of  the  storm;  but  in  one  place  (i.  134,  4)  he  is  said  to  have 
begotten  them  from  the  rivers  of  heaven  (ajanayo  Maruto  vakshandlhyo 
divah  a  vakshandbhyah}  ;  and  in  another  place  (i.  142,  12)  to  be  at- 
tended by  Pushan,  the  Maruts  and  the  Yisve  devas  (Pushanvate  Marut- 
vate  visvadevi-ya  Yayave}. 

The  following  hymns  are  addressed  to  Yata  (another  name  of  the 
god  of  the  wind).  The  imagery  in  the  first  is  highly  poetical  : 

x.  168,  1.  Vdtasya  nu  mahimdnam  rathasya  rujann  eti  stanayann  asya 
ghoshah  \  divisprig  ydti  arundni  krinvann  utot  eti  prithivydh  renum 
asyan  \  2.  Sam  prerate  anu  vdtasya  vishthtih  d  enam  gachJianti  samanam 
na  yoshdh  \  tdbhih  sayuk  saratham  devah  lyate  asya  visvasya  Ihuvanasya 
rdj'd  |  3.  Antarikshe  pathibhir  lyamdno  na  ni  viiate  katamach  chana 
dhah  \  apdm  sakhd  prathamajdh  ritdvd  Itva  svij  jdtah  Tcutah  dbabhuva  | 
dtmd  devdndm  bhuvana&ya  garlho  yathdvasam  charati  devah  eshali  \ 
ffhoshdh  id  asya  srinvire  na  rupam  tasmai  Vdtdya  havishd  vidhema  \ 

"1.  (I  celebrate)  the  glory  of  Yata's  chariot;  its  noise  comes  rending 
and  resounding.  Touching  the  sky,  he  moves  onward,  making  all 
things  ruddy  :  and  he  comes  propelling  the  du£t  of  the  earth.  2.  The 


Devah  vai  Somasya  rajno  '  grapeye  na  samapadayann  "  aham  prathamah  pibeyam" 
"  aham  prathamah  pibeyam  "  ity  eva  akamayanta  \  te  sampadayanto  'bruvan  "  hanta 
ajim  iyama  sa  yonah  ujjeshyati  sa  prathamah  somasya  pasyati"  iti  \  "tatha"  iti  \ 
te  ajim  ayuh  \  tesham  ajim  yatam  abhisrishtanam  Vayur  mukham  prathamah  pratya- 
padyata  atha  Indro  'tha  Mitravarunav  atka  4-svinau  \  so  'ved  Indro  Vayum  ud  vai 
jayati  iti  tarn  anu  parapatat  \  sa  ha  "  nav  atha  ujjayava"  iti  \  sa  "na"  ity  abravld 
"aham  eva  ujjeshyami"  iti  \  "trifiyam  me  'tha  ujjayava"  iti  \  "na"  iti  ha  eva 
abravld  "aham  eva.  ujjeshyami"  iti  \  "  turlyam  me  'tha  ujjayava  iti  \  "tatha.  "  iti  \ 
tarn  turlye  'tyarjata  \  tat  turiya-bhag  Indro  'bhavat  tribhag  Vayuii  \  tau  saha  eva 
Indravayu  udajayatam  saha  Mitravarunau  saha  AsviiMu  \  "  The  gods  did  not  agree 
in  regard  to  the  first  draught  of  king  Soma  ;  but  each  of  them  desired,  '  Let  me  drink 
first,'  'let  me  drink  first."  But  coming  to  an  arrangement,  they  said  :  '  Come,  let 
us  run  a  race,  and  the  victor  shall  first  drink  the  Soma.'  'Agreed,'  said  they 
all.  They  ran  a  race  accordingly  ;  and  when  they  started  and  ran,  Vayu  first  reached 
the  goal,  then  Indra,  then  Mitra  and  Varuna,  and  last  the  As'vins.  Indra  thought 
he  might  beat  Vayu,  and  he  followed  him  closely  ;  and  said  '  Let  us  two  now  be  the 
victors.'  'No,'  rejoined  Vayu,  'I  alone  shall  be  the  winner.'  'Let  us  so  •win 
together  that  I  shall  have  a  third  (of  the  draught),'  said  Indra.  'No,'  said  Vayu, 
«  I  alone  shall  be  the  winner.'  '  Let  us  so  win  together  that  I  shall  have  the  fourth,' 
continued  Indra.  '  Agreed,'  said  Vayu.  He  gave  him  a  right  to  the  fourth,  so  Indra 
has  one  share  out  of  four  and  Vayu  three.  So  Indra  and  Vayu  won  together,  as  did 
Mitra  and  Varuna,  and  the  two  As'vins  respectively."  See  the  story  of  another 
similar  settlement  by  a  race  in  the  Ait.  Br.  iv.  7  f. 

10 


146  VAYTJ,   HYMNS  ADDEESSED   TO   HIM. 

gusts  (?)  of  the  air  rush  after  him,  and  congregate  in  him  as  womon  in  an 
assembly.  Sitting  along  with  them  on  the  same  car,  the  god,  who  is 
king  of  this  universe,  is  borne  along.  3.  Hasting  forward,  by  paths  in 
the  atmosphere,  he  never  rests  on  any  day.  Friend  of  the  waters, 
first-born,  holy,  in  what  place  was  he  born  ?  whence  has  he  sprung  ? 
4.  Soul  of  the  gods,  source  of  the  universe,  this  deity  moves  as  he 
lists.228  His  sounds  have  been  heard,,  but  his  form  is  not  (seen) :  this 
Vata  let  us  worship  with  an  oblation." 

x.  186,  1.  Vdtah  d  vdtu  Ihesha/am  sambhu  mayolhu  no  hride  \  2.  Pro, 
nah  dyumshi  tdrishat  \  y,ta  Vata  pita,  'si  nah  uta  Ihrdtd  uta  nah  sakhd  \ 
sa  nojlvdtave  kridhi  \  3.  Yad  ado  Vata  te  grihe  amritasya  nidhir  hitah  \ 
tato  no  dehijivase  \ 

"1.  Let  Vata,  the  wind,  waft  to  us  healing,229  salutary,  and  auspi- 
cious, to  our  heart :  may  he  prolong  our  lives.  2.  And,  Vata,  thou  art 
our  father,  our  brother,  and  our  friend :  cause  us  to  live.  3.  From  the 
treasure  of  immortality,  which  is  deposited  yonder  in  thy  house,  o 
Vata,  give  us  to  live." 

Here  the  same  property  is  ascribed  to  Vata  which  is  elsewhere 
ascribed  to  Eudra,  that  'of  bringing  healing. 

228  Compare  St.  John's  Gospel,  iii.  8  :  The  wind  bloweth  where  it  listeth,"  etc. 

229  Compare  i.  89,  4. 


147 


SECTION   IX. 

THE  MAEUTS. 
(1)  Their  parentage,  epithets,  characteristics,  and  action. 

The  Maruts,  or  Eudras,  the  gods  of  the  tempest,230  who  form  a  large 
troop  of  thrice  sixty  (viii.  85,  8  :  trih  shashtis  tvd  Maruto  vavridhd- 
ndh},  or  of  only  twenty-seven  (i.  133,  6  :  trisaptaih  sura  satvabhih),™1 
are  the  sons  of  Rudra  and  Prisni 232  (Rudrasya  marydh  \  Rudrasya 
sunavah  \  Rudrasya  sunun  \  Rudrasya  putrdh  \  idam  pitre  marutam 
uchyate  vachah  \  pitar  marutam  .  .  .  'Rudra  \  Prisnim  vochanta  mdtaram  \ 
adha  pitaram  ishminam  Rudram  vochanta  \  yuvd  pita  svapdh  Rudrah 
eshdm  sudughd  Prisnih  sudind  marudbhyah  f  Prisnimdtarah  \  asuta 
Prisnir  mahate  randya  tvesham  aydsdm  Marutam  anlTcam  \  Gomdtarah  \ 
Gaur  dhayati  Marutam  sravasyur  mdtd  maghondm  \  ),233  or  the  speckled 
cow  (L  64,  2  ;  i.  85,  If.;  i.  114,  6 ;  i.  168,  9 ;  ii.  33,  1  ;  ii.  34,  2 ; 

230  prof.  Benfey,  in  a  note  to  R.V.  i.  6,  4,  aays  that  the  Maruts  (their  name  being 
derived  from  mar, '  to  die,')  are  personifications  of  the  souls  of  the  departed. 

231  See  also  A.V.  xiii.  1,  3,  where  the  same  smaller  number  is  given :   trishaptaso 
marutah  svadusammudah.     Sayana  interprets  the  words  of  R.V.  viy.  28,  5,  saptanam 
sapta  rishtayaii  \  "  The  seven  have  seven  spears,"  by  saying  that  it  refers  to  an 
ancient  story  of  Indra  severing  the  embryo  of  Adit?  into  seven  parts,  from  which 
sprang  the  Maruts  according  to  the  Vedic  text :  "  The  Maruts  are  divided  into  seven 
troops."     The  same  story  is  told  at  greater  length  by  Sayana  on  R.V.  i.  114,  6, 
where,  however,  it  is  said  to  be  Diti,  mother  of  the  Asuras,  whose  embryo  Indra 
severed  first  into  seven  portions,  each  of  which  he  then  subdivided  into  seven.     See 
the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  256. 

232  This  word  is  regarded  as  a  personification  of  the  speckled  clouds  in  Roth'£ 
Illustrations  of  Nirukta,  x.  39,  p.  145.     In  his  Lexicqp  the  same  scholar  says  that 
like  other  designations  of  the  cow,  the  word  is  employed  in  various  figurative  and 
mythical  references,  to  denote  the  earth,  the  clouds,  milk,  the  variegated  or  starry 
heaven.     On  ii.  34,  2,  Sayana  refers  (as  an  alternative  explanation)  to  a  story  of 
Rudra,  as  a  bull,  begetting  the  Maruts  on  Prisni,  the  Earth,  in  the  form  of  a  cow. 

233  The  Taittiriya  Sanhita,  ii.  2,  11,  4,  says:  Prisniyai  vai payaso  marutojatah  \ 
"The  Maruts  were  born  from  Pris'ni's  milk." 


It8  THE   MARIJTS,    THEIR   PARENTAGE, 

v.  42,  15 ;  v.  52,  16  ;  v.  60,  5  ;  v.  59,  6  ;  vi.  50,  4  ;  vi.  66,  3  ;  vii. 
56,  1;  viii.  7,  3,  17;  viii.  20,  17;  viii.  83,  1).  They  are,  however, 
said  to  be  like  sons  to  Iridra  (sa  sunubhir  na  Rudrebhih,  i.  100,  5) ;  and 
they  are  also  called  sindhu-matarah,  children  of  the  ocean,  whether  we 
suppose  this  to  be  the  aerial  or  terrestrial  sea  (x.  78,  6),  and  sons  of 
Heaven,  divas-putrasah  (x.  77,  2),  and  Divo  marydh,  iit.  53, 13  ;  v.  59,  6. 
See  Miiller's  Trans,  of  R.V.  p.  93.  Jn  v.  56,  8,  mention  is  made  of 
the  chariot  of  theMaruts  "in  which  RodasI  stood  bringing  enjoyments, 
in  company  with  the  Maruts"  (a  yasmin  tasthau  surandni  bibhratl 
sachd  marutsu  RodasI).  On  this  Sayana  remarks  that  Rodasi  is  the  wife 
of  Rudra  and  mother  of  the  Maruts ;  or  that  Rudra  is  the  Wind  (Vayu), 
and  his  wife  the  intermediate  or  aerial  goddess.  (Roda&l  Rudrasya  patnl 
marutdm  mdtd  \  yadvd  Rudro  Tdyuh  \  tat-patnl  mddhyamika  devi).  They 
are  frequently  associated  with  Indra,  as  we  have  already  seen ; — (compare 
the  expressions  which  describe  them  as  his  allies  and  friends,  and  as 
increasing  his  strength  and  prowess,  at  the  same  time  that  they 
celebrate  his  greatness  :  Marutvantam  Indram  \  Indra-jyeshthdh  marud- 
gandh  \  sakhibhih  svebhir  evaih  \  ye  te  imhrnam  ye  tavishim  avardhann 
archantah  Indra  marutas  te  ojah  \  piba  Rudrebhih  saganah  \  ye  tvd  anu 
ahem  Vrittram  adadhus  tubhyam  ojah  \  archanti  tvd,  Marutah  putadakhds 
tvam,  eshdm  rishir  Indrdsi  dhirah  \  Rudrdsah  Indravantah  \  ayam  Indro 
Marut-saTchd  \  Brihad  Indrdya  gdyata  marutah  \  i.  23,  7.  8  ;  i.  100> 
1  ff. ;  i.  101,  1,  ff. ;  iii.  32,  2,  4;  iii.  35,  9;  iii.  47,  1,  ff. ;  iii.  51,  7 
ff. ;  v.  29,  1,  2,  6  ;  v.  57,  1  ;  vii.  32,  10  ;  vii.  42,  5  ;  viii.  36,  1  ff; 
viii.  52,  10  ;  viii.  65,  1  ff;  viii.  78,  1  ff. ;  viii.  85,  7  ff. ;  x.  73,  1 ; 
x.  99,  5;  x.- 113,  3)  ; — but  they  are  also  celebrated  separately  in 
numerous  hymns  (as  i.  37«;  i.  38;  i.  39;  i.  64;  i.  85;  i.  86;  i.  87;  i.  88; 
i.  166,  which,  with  others,  are  rendered  into  English  and  illustrated 
in  the  1st  vol.  of  Professor  Miiller's  Translation  of  the  R.Y. ;  see  also 
i.  167;  i.  168;  v.  52;  v.  53;  v.  54;  v.  55;  v.  56;  vii.  56;  vii.  57; 
vii.  58,  etc.)  They  are  favourite  deities  of  some  of  the  rishis,  and  are 
often  praised  in  highly  poetical  strains.  They  are  like  blazing  fires, 
free  from  soil,  of  golden  or  tawny  hue,  and  of  sunlike  brilliancy  (ye 
agnayo  na  sosuchann  idhdndh  \  arenavah  \  hiranydsah  \  suryatvachah  \ 
arunapsavah  \  vi.  66,  2;  vii.  59,  11  ;  viii.  7,  7).  They  are  also  com- 
pared to  swans  with  black  plumage  (hamsdso  nila-prishthdh,  vii.  59,  7)  ; 
and  are  sometimes  said  to  be  playful  as  children  or  calves  (krllanti 


EPITHETS,   CHARACTERISTICS,   AND   ACTION.  149 

krildh  \  iiiulah  na  knlayah  sumdtarah  \  vatsdso  na  prakrllinah  \  i.  166, 
2;  vii.  56,  16;  x.  78,  6).  They  are  thus  apostrophized  in  v.  54,  11 : 
amseshu  vah  rishtayah  patsu  khddayo  vakshassu  rukmdh  Maruto  rathe 
subhah  |  agnibhrdj&so  vidyuto  gabhastyoh  siprah  Slrshashu  vitatdh  hira- 
nyaylh  \  "  Spears  rest  upon  vour  shoulders,  ye  Maruts ;  ye  have  anklets 
on  your  feetf,  gofden  ornaments  on  your  breasts,  lustre  in  your  cars, 
fiery  lightnings  in  .your  hands,  aad  golden  helmets234  placed  upon  your 

234  In  ii.  34,  3,  the  epithet  of  hiranya-siprah  is  applied  to  these  deities.  This 
Sayana  explains  by  suvarnamaya-sirastranah,  "  with  golden  helmets."  That  one 
sense  of  iipra  (feminine)  is  "a  head-dress,  or  a  helmet,"  is  settled  by  the  verse  in  the 
text,  v.  54,  11,  where  the  words  are  siprah  sirshasu  vitatah  hiranyayth,  "golden 
helmets  are  stretched  or  (placed)  upon  your  heads  ; "  and  also  by  viii.  7,  25,  where  it 
is  said,  siprah  sirshan  hiranyaylh  .  .  .  vyanjata  sriye,  "  they  displayed  for  ornament 
golden  helmets  on  their  heads."  In  the  first  of  these  passages,  Sayana  interprets  siprah 
as  meaning  a  *  turban,'  in  the  second  a '  helmet.'  It  thus  appears  that  siprah,  in  these 
texts  at  least,  must  mean  something  external  to  the  head,  and  not  a  feature  of  the 
face  as  sipra  is  often  interpreted,  when  applied  to  Indra.  Thus  susipra  is  explained 
by  Sayana  on  i.  9,  3,  as  meaning  sobhana-hano  sobhana-nasika  va,  "  having  handsome 
jaws,  or  a  handsome  nose  ; "  since  Yaska,  he  says,  makes  sipra  to  mean  one  or  other 
of  these  two  parts  of  the  face  (Nirukta,  vi.  17).  The  same  explanation  is  given  by 
Sayana  on  i.  29,  2 ;  i.  81,  4  ;  and  i.  101,  10.  On  iii.  30,  3,  however,  the  same  com- 
mentator says:  sipra-sabdena  sirastranam  abhidhlyate  \  sobhana-sirastranopetah\ 
yadva  sobhana-hanuman  \  "By  the  word  sipra,  a  helmet  is  signified.  Susipra 
therefore  means  '  having  a  handsome  helmet,'  or  it  means  '  having  handsome  jaws.' 
On  iii.  32,  3  ;  iii.  36,  10  ;  viii.  32,  4,  24;  viii.  33,  7  ;  viii.  55,  4  ;  he  returns  to  the 
latter  interpretation.  On  viii.  17,4;  viii.  81,  4;  viii.  82,  12  ;  he  again  gives  the 
alternative  explanation  as  on  iii.  30,  3.  Professor  Aufrecht  has  favoured  me  with  a 
note  on  the  subject  of  the  word  sipra  and  its  derivatives,  of  which  the  following  are 
the  most  important  parts  :  S'ipra  in  the  dual'means  jaws  (i.  101,  10  ;  iii.  32,  1 ;  v. 
36,  2;  viii.  65,  10;  x.  96,  9;  x,  105,  5).  S'ipravat  means  "having  large  jaws" 
(vi.  17,  2).  S'iprin  means  the  same,  and  is  used  only  of  Indra  (i.  29,  2;  i.  84,  1 ; 
iii.  36,  10,  etc.  etc.).  S'iprim,  as  Professor  Aufrecht  considers,  m«ans  "  a  draught 
(imbibed  by  the  jaws);"  and  he  translates  i.  30,  11,  thus:  "(Partake,  our  friend, 
wielder  of  the  thunderbolt,  of  the  draughts  of  us  thy  friends  the  soma-drinkers, 
thou  who  art  fond  of  Soma."  S'iprnivat  (x.  105,  5)  will  thus  be  "  he  who 
possesses  the  draught."  Siprah  in  v.  54,  11,  and  viii.  7,  25,  are  "  visors,"  the 
two  parts  of  which  are  compared  to  two  jaws.  Ayah-sipra,  used  of  the  Ribhus 
(iv.  37,  4)  will  consequently  mean  "having  iron  visors."  The  word  occurs  in 
other  compounds,  to  which  I  need  not  here  refer.  I  am  not  sufficiently  acquainted 
with  the  armour  of  India  to  know  whether  anything  like  a  visor  was  or  is  used 
by  warriors  in  that  country.  It  is,  however,  customtw-y  for  the  Hindus  in  parti- 
cular circumstances  (as  for  protection  from  the  heat,  and  also  from  the  cold,  and  for 
purposes  of  disguise)  to  wear  their  turbans  not  only  wrapped  horizontally  round  their 
heads,  but  also  to  tie  another  cloth  perpendicularly  under  their  chins  and  over  the 
tops  of  their  heads,  thus  enclosing  the  sides  of  their  faces.  This  is  called  in  the  ver- 
nacular Hindi  dhatha  bandhna.  The  word  dhatha  is  explained  in  Shakespear's 
Hindustani  Dictionary,  s.v .  as  "  a  handkerchief  tied  over  the  turband  and  over  the 
ears." 


150  THE   MARUTS,   THEIR   PARENTAGE, 

heads."  Compare  i.  64,  4;  i.  166,  10;  ii.  34,  2,  3  (dydvo  na  stribhis 
chitayanta  khddinah  \  "adorned  with  rings,  they  were  conspicuous  like 
the  sky  with  its  stars  ")  ;  v.  53,  4  (where,  in  addition  to  their  ornaments 
and  their  weapons,  they  are  said  to  have  been  decorated  with  garlands : 
ye  anjishu  ye  vdsishu  svabhdnavah  srakshu  rukmeshu  khddishu  \  srdydh 
ratheshu  dhanvasu} ;  v.  55,  1 ;  v.  57,  5,  6  (every  glory  is  manifested  in 
their  bodies :  visvd  vah  srlr  adhi  tanushu  pipise) ;  v.  58,  2  (khddihastam] ; 
vii.  56,  11,  13  (amseshu  vo  Marutah  khddayah235  \  "on  your  shoulders, 
Maruts,  are  rings");  viii.  7,  25  ;  viii.  20,  4  (6ubhrakhddayah},  11,  22; 
x.  78,  2.  They  are  armed  with  golden  weapons,  and  with  lightnings, 
dart  thunderbolts,  gleam  like  flames  of  fire,  and  are  borne  along  with 
the  fury  of  boisterous  winds  (vidyunmahaso  naro  asmadidyavo  vdtatvisho 
Marutah,  v.  54,  3) ;  viii.  7,  4,  17,  32  (vaj'rahastaih  .  .  .  marudbhih  .  .  . 
hiranyavdslbhih) ;  x.  78,  2,  3  (vdtdso  na  ye  dhunayo  jigatnavo  agnlndm 
na  jihvdh  virokinah) ;  they  split  Vrittra  into  fragments  (viii.  7,  23  : 
vi  vrittram  parva&o  yayuK] ;  they  are  clothed  with  rain  (varshanir- 
nijah,  v.  57,  4) ;  they  create  darkness  even  during  the  day,  with  the 
rain-clouds  distribute  showers  all  over  the  world,  water  the  earth, 
and  avert  hea,t  i.  38,  9  (diva  chit  tamah  krinvanti  parjanyena  udavd- 
hena  \  yat  prithivlm  vyundanti)  ;  v.  54,  1  (sardhdya  mdrutdya  .  .  . 
gharma-stubhe) ;  v.  55,  5  (ud  Irayatha  Marutah  samudrato  yuyam  vrish- 
tim  varshayatha  purlshinaK)  ;  viii.  7,  4  (vapanti  maruto  miham  \  16. 
ye  drapsdh  iva  rodasl  dhamanti  anu  vrishtilhih')™  They  open  up  a 
path  for  the  sun,  viii.  7,  8  (srijanti  rasmim  ojasd  panthdm  surydya 
yatave].  They  cause  the  mountains,  the  earth,  and  both  the  worlds  to 
quake,  i.  39,  5  (pra  vepayanti  parvatdn)  ;  i.  87,  3  (rejate  Ihumifi) ; 
v.  54,  1,  3  (parvatachyulzh} ;  v.  60,  2  f.  (vo  bhiyd  prithivl  chid  rejate 
parvatas  chit  \  parvatas  chin  mahi  vriddho  libhdya  divas  chit  sdnu  rejate 
svane  vah}  •  vii.  57,  1  (ye  rejayanti  rodasl  chid  urvl] ;  viii.  7,  4 ;  viii. 
20,  5.  They  rend  trees,  and,  like  wild  elephants,  they  devour  the 
forests,  i.  39,  5 ;  i.  64,  7  (vi  vinchanti  vanaspatln  \  mrigdh  iva  hastinah 

235  On  the  sense  of  the  wo.d  khadi  see  Miiller's  Trans,  of  the  R.V.  p.  102  and  218. 

236  In  a  hymn  of  the  A.V.  iv.  27,  verse  3,  the  Maruts  are  said  to  give  an  impulse 
to  the  milk  of  cows,  the  sap  of  plants,  the  speed  of  horses  (payo  dhenunam  rasam 
oshadhlndm  javam  arvatam  kavayo  ye  invatha) ;  and  in  the  4th  verse  they  are 
described  as  raising  the  waters  from  the  sea  to  the  sky,  and  as  discharging  them  from 
the  sky  on  the  earth  (apah  samudrad  divam  udvahanti   divas  prithivim  abhi  ye 
srijanti). 


EPITHETS,   CHAEACTERISTICS,   AND    ACTION.  151 

khddatha  vand}.  They  have  iron  teeth  (ayodamshfrdn,  i.  88,  5) ;  they 
roar  like  lions  (simhdh  iva  ndnadati,  i.  64,  8) ;  all  creatures  are  afraid 
of  them,  i.  85,  8  (bhayante  viSvd  bhuvand  marudbhyah.  Their  weapons 
are  of  various  descriptions — spears,  bows,  quivers,  and  arrows  (vdslm- 
antah  rishtimantah  \  ishumanto  nishanginah\  i.  37,  2 ;  v.  57,  2.  Their 
coursers  are1  swift  as  thought  (manojuvah,  i.  85,  4).  They  ride,  with 
•whips  in  their  hands  (ka$dh  fasteshu,  i.  37,  3;  i.  168,  4),  in  golden 
cars  (hiranyarathdh,  v.  57,  1),  with  golden  wheels  (hiranyebhih 
pavibhih  \  hiranya-chakrdn,  i.  64,  11  ;  i.  88,  5),  drawn  by  ruddy  and 
tawny  horses  (with  which  the  chariots  are  said  to  be  winged),  and 
flashing  forth  lightnings,  or  formed  of  lightning,  i.  88,  1,  2  (a  vid- 
yunmadbhih  rathebhir  rishtimadbhir  asvaparnaih  \  arunebhih  pisangair 
asvaih)  ;  iii.  54,  13  (vidyudrathdh  Marutah  rishtimantah)  ;  v.  57,  4 
(pisangd£vdh  arundsvdh}.  The  animals  by  which  these  chariots  are 
described  as  being  drawn  are  designated  in  some  places  by  the  epithet 
prishatlh  (i.  37,  2 ;  i.  39,  6 ;  i.  85,  5  ;  viii.  7,  28),  which  Professor 
Wilson — following  Sayana  on  Kig-veda,  i.  37,  2M7 — renders  by 
"spotted  deer."  But  in  i.  38,  12,  the  horses  (asvdsaK)  of  the  Maruts 
are  spoken  of,  as  is  also  the  case  in  viii.  7,  27* where  they  (the  horses) 
are  called  hiranya-pdnibhih,  "golden-footed;"  though  in  the  next 
verse  (28)  the  prishatlh  are  again  spoken  of,  as  well  as  a  prashtih 
rohitah,  which  we  find  also  in  i.  39,  6,  and  which  Sayana  understands 
to  denote  either  a  swift  buck,  or  a  buck  yoked  as  a  leader  to  the  does. 
In  i.  87,  4,  the  troop  of  Maruts  itself  receives  the  epithet  prishad-asva, 
"having  spotted  horses."  This  is,  indeed,  explained  by  Sayana  in  the 
sense  of  "having  does  marked  with  white  spots  instead>of  horses;"238 
but  in  his  notes  on  v.  54,  2,  10,  and  v.  /\5,  1,  where  the  Maruts' 
horses  are  again  spoken  of  (na  vo  asvdh  irathayanta  \  lyante  asvaih 
suyamebhir  dsubhih'),  he  does  not  repeat  this  explanation.  In  v.  55,  6, 
where  the  Maruts  are  described  as  having  yoked  prishatih  (feminine)  as 
horses  (asvdn,  masculine,)  to  their  chariots,  Sayana  says  we  may  either 

understand  "spotted  mares,"  or  suppose  the  word  "horse"  to  stand  for 

• 

23?  Prishatyo  vindu-yuktah  mrigyo  Maryd-vahana-bhutah  \  "prishatyo  Marutam  " 
iti  Nighantav  uktatvat. 

238  Benfey,  in  his  translation  of  this  verse  (Orient  und  Occident,  ii.  250)  retains 
the  sense  of  antelopes.  In  vii.  56,  1,  the  Maruts  are  styled  svasvah,  "having  good 
horses,"  which  Sayana  explains  sobhana-vahah,  "  having  good  carriers." 


152  THE   M ABUTS,    THEIR  CHARACTERISTICS, 

doe  (prishatih  .  .  .  prishad-varnah  vadavah  \  sarangl  va  atra  asva-sabda- 
vachya).  In  his  note  on  prishafibhih  in  ii.  34,  3,  he  says  they  may  he 
either  does  marked  with  white  spots,  or  mares ;  and  he  interprets 
prishatih  in  v.  57,  3,  by  asvah,  mares.  Professor  Aufrecht,  who  has 
favoured  me  with  a  note  on  the  subject  of  the  word  prishatih,  is  of 
opinion  that,  looking  to  all  the  passages  where  it  occurs  ki  connection 
with  the  Maruts,  it  must  mean  marss.233  Perhaps,,  it  is  best  to  hold 
with  Professor  Miiller  (Trans,  of  R.V.  i.  p.  59)  that  the  Vedic  poets 
admitted  both  ideas,  as  we  find  "that  they  speak  in  the  same  hymns, 
and  even  in  the  same  verse,  of  the  fallow  deer,  and  also  of  the  horses 
of  the  Maruts." 

In  the  following  verses,  viii.  83,  9  ff.,  high  cosmical  functions  are 
ascribed  to  the  Maruts  :  a  ye  visva  parthivani  pa/prathan  rochand  divah  \ 
Marutah  somapltaye  \  10.  Tydn  mi  putadakshaso  divo  vo  Maruto  huve 
asya  somasya  pltaye  \  11.  Tyan  nu  ye  vi  rodasl  tastabhur  Maruto  huve  \ 
asya  somasya  pltaye  \  12.  Tarn  nu  Marutam  aanam  girishthdm  vrisha- 
nam  huve  \  asya  somasya  pltaye  \  '9  and  10.  "I  invite  to  drink  this 
soma  the  Maruts  who  stretched  out  all  the  terrestrial  regions,  and  the 
luminaries  of  the  sky ;  'I  call  from  the  heaven  those  Maruts  of  pure 

239  Professor  Aufrecht  has  pointed  out  a  number  of  passages  regarding  the  sense  of 
the  words  prishad-asva  andprishat,  as  Rayamukuta  on  Amara,  the  Vaj.  Sanh.  xxiv. 
11,  18;  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  v.  5,  1,  10,  and  v.  5,  2,  9.  He  has  also  indicated 
another  verse  of  the  Rig-veda  (v.  58,  6),  where  prishatlbhis  in  the  feminine  is  joined 
with  asvaih  in  the  masculine  (where  Professor  Miiller,  Trans,  of  R.V.  i.  59,  would 
translate,  "  when  you  come  with  the  deer,  the  horses,  and  the  chariots  ") ;  and  remarks 
that  viii.  54,  10,  11,  could  not  mean  that  the  rishi  received  a  thousand  antelopes. 
(The  words  are  these :  data  me  prishatJnam  raja  hiranyavlriam  \  tna  devah  maghava 
rishat  \  11.  Sahasre  prishatmam  adhi  schandram  brihat  prithu  \  sukram  hiranyam 
adade  \  "  0  gods,  may  the  tfiuntiful  king,  the  giver  to  me  of  the  gold-decked 
prishatts,  never  perish!  11.  I  received  gold,  brilliant,  heavy,  broad,  and  shining, 
over  and  above  a  thousand prishatls  (probably  speckled  cows)."  Sayana  represents 
Indra  as  the  bountiful  patron  here,  and  makes  the  worshipper  pray  to  the  gods  that 
Indra  may  not  perish,  an  erroneous  interpretation,  surely.  Professor  Roth  appears, 
from  a  remark  under  the  word  eta  (vol.  i.  p.  1091  of  his  Diet.)  to  have  at  one  time 
vegarded  j9mA«<«/<z/i  as  a  kind  of  deer.  In  his  explanation  of  this  latter  word  itself, 
however  (in  a  later  part  of  hi^  Lexicon,  which  perhaps  had  not  reached  me  when  this 
note  was  first  written),  he  says  that  it  is  a  designation  of  the  team  of  the  Maruts; 
and  according  to  the  ordinary  assumption  of  the  commentators,  which,  however 
is  not  established  either  by  the  Nirukta,  or  by  any  of  the  Brahmanas  known  to 
us,  denotes  spotted  antelopes.  There .  is  nothing,  however,  he  goes  on  to  say,  to 
prevent  our  understanding  the  word  (with  Mahidhara  on  Vaj.  Sanh.  ii.  16)  to  mean 
spotted  mares,  as  mention  is  frequently  enough  made  of  the  horses  of  the  Maruts. 


AND    RELATIONS  TO   INDRA.  153 

power.  1 1 .  I  call  to  drink  this  soma  those  Maruts  who  held  apart  the 
two  worlds.  12.1  call  to  drink  this  soma  that  vigorous  host  of  Maruts 
which  dwells  in  the  mountains." 

The  Maruts  or  Rudras  (like  their  father  Rudra ;  see  the  4th  vol.  of 
this  work,  pp.  253,  259,  261,  263  f.,  333  ff.),  are  in  one  hymn,  viii. 
20,  23,  25,  si/pplicated  to  bring  healing  remedies,  which  are  described 
as  abiding  in  the  S(indhu,  the  Af^kni,  the  seas,  and  the  hills  (maruto 
mdrutasya  nah  a  bheshajasya  vahata  \  yad  Sindhau  yad  Asiknydm  yat 
samudreshu  .  .  .  yat  parvateshu  bheshajam). 

(2)  Relations  of  the  Maruts  to  Indra  ; — the  rival  claims 
of  the  two  parties. 

Professor  Wilson  is  of  opinion  (Rig-veda  ii.,  Indroduction  p.  vii.  and 
notes  pp.  145  and  160),  that  in  a  few  hymns  some  traces  are  per- 
ceptible of  a  dispute  between  the  votaries  of  the  Maruts  and  those  of 
Indra  in  regard  to  their  respective  claims  to  worship.  Thus  in  hymns 
165  and  170  of  the  first  book  of  the  Rig-veda  we  find  dialogues,  in  the 
first  case  between  Indra  and  the  Maruts,  and  in  the  second  between 
Indra  and  Agastya,  in  which  the  rival  pretensions  of  these  deities 
appear.  Indra  asks,  i.  165,  6  :  leva  syd  vo  Marutai?  svadhd  dsld 
yan  mdm  elcam  samadhatta  Ahihatye  \  aham  hi  ugras  tavishas  tuvish- 
mdn  visvasya  katror  anamam  vadhasnaih  \  7.  Bhuri  chahartha  yu- 
jyebhir  asme  samdnebhir  vrishabha  paumsyebhih  \  bhurlni  hi  krinavdma 
savishtha  Indra  Icratvd  Maruto  yad  vasdma  \  8.  Vadhlm  Vrittram 
marutah  indriyena  svena  bhamma  \  "  "Where  was  your  inherent  power, 
ye  Maruts,  when  ye  involved  me  alone  24°  in  the  conflict  with  Ahi  ?  It 
was  I  who,  fierce,  strong,  and  energetic,  overturned  my  enemies  with  my 
shafts."  The  Maruts  rejoin  :  "7.  Vigorous  god,  thou  hast  done  great 
things  with  us  for  thy  helpers,  through  our  equal  valour ;  for,  0  strong 
Indra,  we  Maruts  by  our  power  can  perform  many  great  exploits  when 
we  desire."  Indra  replies  :  "  8.  By  my  own  prowess,  Maruts,  I  slew 
Vrittra,  mighty  in  my  wrath,"  etc.  • 

Of  hymn  i.  170,  the  Kirukta  says,  i.  5,  tjiat    "Agastya,   having 

prepared  an  oblation  for  Indra,  desired  to  give  the  Maruts  also  a  share 

in  it.     On  which  Indra  came  and  complained."     (Agastyah  Indrdya 

havir  nirupya  Marudbhyah  sampraditsdm,   chahdra   \  sa  Indrah   etya 

240  See  above,  p.  93,  note. 


154  RELATIONS  OF  THE   MARUTS   TO   INDRA. 

paridevaytinchalcre).  The  Maruts  reply,  i.  170,  2  :  Icim  nah  Indra 
jighdm&asi  bhrdtaro  marutas  tava  \  tebhih  Jcalpasva  sddhuyd  ma  nah 
samarane  vadhlh  \  3.  Kim  no  bhrdtar  Agastya  sakha  sann  ati  manya&e  \ 
vidma  hi  te  yathd  memo  asmabhyam  in  na  ditsasi  \  "  Why  dost  thou  seek 
to  kill  us,  Indra  ?  The  Maruts  are  thy  brothers.  Act  amicably  to- 
wards them.  Do  not  kill  us  in  the  fray."  M1  Indra'  then  says  to 
Agastya,  v.  3.  "Why  dost  thou,  brother  Agastya-  being  our  friend, 
disregard  us  ?  For  we  know  how  thy  mind  is.  Thou  wilt  not  give 
us  anything." — See  Roth's  Elucidations  of  Nirukta,  p.  6.)  In  i.  171, 
4,  also,  the  rishi,  after  imploring  the  favour  of  the  Maruts,  says  to 
them  apologetically :  asmdd  aham  tavishdd  Ishamdnah  Indrdd  bhiyd 
Mdruto  rejamdnah  \  yushmabhyam  havyti  nisitdni  dsan  tdni  are  chakrima 
mrilata  nah  \  "  I  fled,  trembling  through  fear  of  the  mighty  Indra. 
Oblations  were  prepared  for  you ;  we  put  them  away ;  be  merciful  to 
us."  (Compare  R,V.  iv.  18,  11 ;  viii.  7,  31,  and  viii.  85,  7,  quoted  above, 
pp.  92  ff.,  note.)  See  Professor  Muller's  translation  of  i.  165,  and  the 
full  illustrations  he  gives  of  its  signification  in  his  notes,  pp.  170  ff., 
179,  184,  186,  187,  189.  This  hymn  is  referred  to  in  the  following 
short  story  from  the  Taitt.  Brahmana,  ii.  7,  11,  1 :  Agastyo  marudbhyah 
uJcshnah  praulcshat  \  tan  Indrah  ddatta  \  te  enam  vajram  udyatya  alhyd- 
yanta  \  tan  Agastyas  chaiva  Indrah  cha  Tcaydsulhlyena  asamayatdm  \  tan 
sdntdn  iipdhvayata  yat  kaydsubhlyam  bhavati  sdntyai  \  tasmdd  ete  ain- 
drdmdrutdh  ukshdnah  savaniydh  lhavanti  \  trayah  prathame  'hann  dla- 
Ihyante  \  evarh  dvltlye  \  evam  tritlye  \  pancha  uttame  'hann  dlabhyante  \ 
"Agastya  was  immolating  bulls  to  the  Maruts.  These  bulls  Indra 
carried  off.  The  Maruts  ran  at  him  brandishing  a  thunderbolt.  Agastya 
and  Indra  pacified  then?,  with  the  kaydsubhlya  "  (referring  to  E.V.  i. 
165,  1,  of  which  the  first  verse  begins  with  the  words  kayd  subhd). 
"Indra  invited  them  to  the  ceremony  when  pacified,  for  the  kaydstt- 
bhiya  is  used  for  pacification.  Hence  these  bulls  are  to  be  offered  both 
to  Indra  and  the  Maruts.  Three  are  sacrificed  on  the  first  day,  as 
"many  on  the  second  and  third;  on  the  last  day  five  are  immolated." 

In  the  following  passages  (some  of  which  have  been  already  quoted) 
the  Maruts  are  said  to  worship  Indra,  viz.,  iii.  32,  3 ;  v.  29,  1,  2,  6 ; 
viii.  3,  7;  viii.  78,  1,  3. 

211  See  Roth  on  the  sense  of  this  text,  s.v.  kalp. 


155 


SECTION   X. 

StRYA. 

(1)  The  two  sun-gods  separately  celebrated  in  the  hymns. 

The  great  powers  presiding  over  day  and  night  are,  as  we  have  seen 
above,  supposed  by  the  Indian  commentators  to  be  personified  in  Mitra 
and  Varuna.  But  these  deities,  and  especially  Varuna,  as  described  in 
the  Veda,  are  far  more  than  the  mere  representatives  of  day  and  night. 
They  are  also  recognized  as  moral  governors,  as  well  as  superintendents 
of  physical  phenomena.  There  are  two  other  gods  (also,  as  has  been 
already  noticed,  p.  54,  reckoned  in  a  few  passages  as  belonging  to  the 
Adityas),  who  are  exact  personifications  of  the  sun,242  vjz.,  Surya  and 
Savitri.243  It  is  under  these  two  different  appellations  that  the  sun  is 
chiefly  celebrated  in  the  Eig-veda ;  and  although  it  may  be  difficult  to 
perceive  why  the  one  word  should  be  used  in  any  particular  case 

243  In  the  Homeric  hymn  to  Helios,  verses  8'ff.,  the  sun  is  thus  described  : 
6s  <paivfi  dvrjroiffi  Kal  aOavdrotffi  6eoiffiv 
linrois  ejU/Se/Sa^s  •    tr/uepSj/bv  8'  'dye  SepKerat  offaois 
%pvfffT)s  SK  K6pv6os  •  \afjLirpal  8'  o.KTWfs  air'  avrov    -> 
aiy\TJei>  (rri\l3ov<n,   wapa  Kpord(f>iav  re  irapeial 
\a/jurpal  airb  /cparbs  xap'lel'  ltW^C«wri  •npAffcairoi' 
Tr)\avyf$  •    Ka\bv  8e  trepl  xpot  Aa/iirerat  fffOos 

\eirrovpyes,   woiy  avef^cav  •    inrb  8"  &pffet>fs  'lirirot 

»**»*» 
fvff  &p  '6ye  crriiffas  xpvff6Cvyov  ap/ta  Kal  tirirovs 
effiTfpLos  irefj.Trria'L  Si'  ovpavov  'QKeav6v$e. 

213  Regarding  the  Greek  ideas  of  the  divinity  of  the  sun,  moon,  and  stars,  the* 
reader  may  compare  the  passages  of  Plato  cited  or  referred  to  by  Mr.  Grote,  Plato, 
iii.  pp.  384,  414,  418,  449,  452,  497.  One  of  these  passages,  from  the  Laws  vii.  p. 
821,  is  as  follows : — ?fi  ayadoi,  Kara^evSo/Mfda  vvv  &is  «7roy  £nreii>  "EAArjves  irdvres 
/j.eyd\cav  Qfaiv,  'HXt'oi;  re  a^a.  Kal  SeA.^i'Tjs.  Again  in  the  Epinomis  p.  984,  mention  is 
made  of  the  visible  deities,  by  which  the  stars  are  meant :  Oeovs  8«  STJ  rous  dparovs, 
/ueyicrrovs  Kal  ri/juwrdrovs  Kal  'o^vrarov  'opuvras  iravry,  rovs  irpcarovs  rfy  TUIV  affrpuv 
eKreov,  K.r.\. 


156.  SURYA'S   PARENTAGE,   RELATIONS 

rather  than  the  other,  the  application  of  the  names  may  perhaps 
depend  upon  some  difference  in  the  aspect  under  which  the  sun  is 
conceived,  or  on  some  diversity  in  the  functions  which  he  is  regarded 
as  fulfilling.  Different  sets  of  hymns  are,  at  all  events,  devoted  to  his 
worship  under  each  of  these  names,  and  the  epithets  which  are  applied 
to  him  in  each  of  these  characters  are  for  the  most 'part -separate.  In 
some  few  places,  both  these  two  nam.es,  and  occasionally  some  others, 
appear  to  be  applied  to  the  solar  deity  indiscriminately,  but  in  most 
cases  the  distinction  between  them  is  nominally,  at  least,  preserved. 

The  principal  hymns,  or  portions  of  hymns,  in  praise  of,  or  referring 
to,  Surya  are  the  following : — i.  50,  1-13  ;  i.  115,  1-6  ;  iv.  13,  1-3  ; 
v.  40,  5,  6,  8,  9  ;  v.  45,  9,  10 ;  v.  59,  5  ;  vii.  60,  1-4 ;  x.  37,  1  ff. ; 
x.  170.  He  is  treated  of  in  Mrukta,  xii.  14-16. 

(2)  Surya?  s  parentage,  relations  to  the  other  gods,  epithets,  and  functions. 

In  x.  37,  1,  Surya  is  styled  the  son  of  Dyaus  (Divas'  puttrdya 
Surydya  samsata}.  In  x.  88,  11,  he  is  called  the  son  of  Aditi  (Suryam 
Aditeyam},  and  by  the  same  title  in  viii,  90,  11  (San  mahdn  asi  Surya 
lal  Aditya  m^hdn  asi}  ;  but  in  other  places  he  appears  to  be  dis- 
tinguished from  the  Adityas,  as  in  viii.  35,  13  ff.  (sajoshasd  Ushasd 
Suryena  cha  Adityair  ydtam  Aivina}.  Ushas  (the  Dawn)  is  in  one  place 
said  to  be  his  wife  (Suryasya  yoshd,  vii.  75,  5),  while  in  another 
passage,  vii.  78,  3,  the  Dawns  are,  by  a  natural  figure,  said  to  produce 
him  (ajljanan  suryam  yajnam  agnirn]  along  with  Sacrifice  and  Agni, 
and  in  a  third  text,  to  reveal  all  the  three  (prdchikitat  suryam  yajnam 
agnim).  Surys  is  described  as  moving  on  a  car,  which  is  sometimes  said 
to  be  drawn  by  one  and*  sometimes  by  several,  or  by  seven,  fleet  and 
ruddy  horses  or  mares  24i  (i.  115,  3,  4;  vii.  60,  3  :  ayukta  sapta  haritah 
sadhastdd  yah  Im  vahanti  suryam  ghritdchlh) ;  vii.  63,  2  (yad  etaso 
vahanti  dhurshu  yuktah ;  compare  ix.  63,  7 :  ayukta  surah  etasam  pava- 
mdnah};  x.  37,  3;  x.  49,  7.  His  path  is  prepared  by  the  Adityas, 
Mitra,  Aryaman,  and  Varuna,  i.  24,  8  (urum  hi  rdjd  Varunas  chakdra 
surydya  panthdm  anu  etavai  u] ;  vii.  60,  4  (yasmai  Aditydh  adhvano 
radanti  Mitro  Aryamd  Varunah  sajoshdh);  vii.  87,  1.  Pushan  goes 

214  Indra  is  said  to  traverse  the  sky  with  the  sun's  horses  (aham  Suryasya  part 
yami  asubhihpra  etasebhir  vahamanah  ojasa,  x.  49,  7).  Compare  Ovid's  description 
of  Phaethon's  horses,  Metam.  ii.  153. 


TO   THE    OTHER  GODS,   EPITHETS,   AND   FUNCTIONS.      157 

as  his  messenger  with  his  golden  ships,  which  sail  in  the  aerial  ocean, 
vi.  58,  3  (yds  te  Pushan  ndvah  antah  samudre  hiranyayir  antarikshe 
cJiaranti  \  tdlhrir  ydsi  dutyam  suryasya).  He  is  the  preserver  and  soul 
of  all  things  stationary  and  moving,  i.  115,  1  (suryah  dtmd  jagatas 
tastushascha) ;  vii.  60,  2  (visvasya  sthdlur  jagatascha  gopah\  the  vivifier 
(prasavita)"^  *>f  mtin,  and  common  to  them  all,  vii.  63,  2,  3  (sddhdranah 
suryo  mdnushdndm  \  udu  etiprasavitdjandndm).  Enlivened  by  him  men 
pursue  their  ends  and  perform  their  work,  vii.  63,  4  (nunam  jandh 
suryena  prasutdh  ayann  arthdni  krinavann  apdmsi}.  He  is  far-seeing, 
all-seeing,  beholds  all  creatures,  and  the  good  and  bad  deeds  of  mortals,246 
i.  50,  2,  7 ;  vi.  51,  2 ;  vii.  35,  8 ;  vii.  60,  2  ;  vii.  61,  1 ;  vii.  63,  1,  4; 
x.  37,  1  (surdya  visvachakshase  \  pa&yan  janmdni  surya  \  suryah  uru- 
chakshdh  \  riju  marteshu  vrijind  cha  pasyan  \  abM  yo  visvd  Ihuvandni 
chashte  \  duredrise).  He  is  represented  as  the  eye  of  Mitra  and  Varuna, 
and  sometimes  of  Agni  also,  i.  115,  1 ;  vi.  51,  1 ;  vii.  61,  1 ;  vii.  63,  1; 
x.  37,  1  (chakshur  Mitrasya  Varunasya  AgneTi  \  chakshur  Mitrasya 
Varunasya  \  namo  Mitrasya  Varunasya  chakshase).  In  one  passage, 
vii.  77,  3,  Ushas  (the  Dawn)  is  said  to  bring  the  eye  of  the  gods,  and 

245  This  word  and  others  derived  from  the  same  root  su  or  su,  ye,  as  we  shall 
shortly  see,  very  frequently  applied  to  Savitri.     In  x.  66,  2,  the  gods  are  said  to  be 
Indra-prasutah. 

246  The  same  thing  is  naturally  and  frequently  said  of  the  sun  in  classical  litera- 
ture.    Thus  Homer  says,  Iliad,  iii.  277 : 

r]f\i6s  fry  TTOLVT'   tyopifs  Kal  iracr'  fjra/coueis  •  K.T.\. 
and  again  in  the  Iliad,  xiv.  344  f. : 

ovS'   tiv  v£>i  SiaSpaKoi  i]e\i6s  iffp, 

£  ovTf  Kal  o^vrarov  ireAerot  tydos  eiffopdacrBai  • 

And  in  the  Ody&sey,  viii.  270  f. : 

&<pap  Se  of  &yyt\os  ^\6t> 
"H\ios,   8  ff(p'  evoT]ffe  /irya£b/ue»/ovj  (pi\6Tr]Ti. 
So  too  ^Eschylus  in  the  Prometheus  Vinctus  : 

«al  ri>v  ira.v6irri]v  KVK\OV  T)\iov  KO.\£>. 
And  Plutarch,  Isis  and  Osiris,  12  : 

Trjs  'Peoj  <pa<rl  Kpvcpa  T<f  KpSvcp  ffvyyevo[j.€i>ri$  alcrd6/j.€i>ov  eira.pda'ao'Qa.t  T 
So  too  Ovid,  Metamorph.  iv.  171  f. : 

Primus  adulterium  Veneris  cum  Marte  putalur 
Hie  vidisse  deus :  videt  hie  deus  omnia  primus, 
and  verses  195  ff. : 

qui  que  omnia  cernere  debes, 
Leucotheen  spectas :  et  virgine  figis  in  una 
quos  mundo  debes  oculos. 


158  SURYA,   SUBORDINATE   POSITION 

lead  on  the  bright  and  beautiful  horse,  by  which  the  sun  seems  to  be 
intended  (devdndm  chakshuh  subhagd  vahantl  ivetam  nayantl  sudrislJcam 
asvam ;  compare  vii.  76,  1 :  kratvd  devdndm  ajanishta  chakshuh).2"  In 
x.  85,  1,  it  is  said  that  while  the  earth  is  upheld  by  truth,  the  sky  is 
upheld  by  the  sun  (satyenottabhitd  bhumih  suryenottabhitd  dyauh).  He 
rolls  up  darkness  like  a  hide,  vii.  63,  1  (charmeva  yah  samvivyak 
tamdmsi).  By  his  greatness  he  is  ^he  divine  leader  (or  priest)  of  the 
gods,  viii.  90,  12  (mahnd  devdndm  asuryah  purohitah].  In  viii.  82,  1,  4, 
he  is  identified  with  Indra,  or  vice  versa,  Indra  with  him.  In  x.  170, 
4,  the  epithets  visvakarman,  the  architect  of  the  universe,  and  msvade- 
vyavat,  possessed  of  all  divine  attributes,  are  applied  to  him  (as  in  viii. 
87,  2,  Indra  also  is  styled  vtivakarman  and  visvadeva).  In  vii.  60,  1, 
and  vii.  62,  2,  he  is  prayed  at  his  rising  to  declare  men  sinless  to 
Mitra,  Varuna,  etc.  (yad  adya  Surya  bravo  andgdh  udyan.  Mitrdya 
Varunaya  satyam). 

(3)  Subordinate  position  sometime' s  assigned  to  him. 

In  many  passages,  however,  the  dependent  position  of  Surya  is 
asserted.  Th'is  he  is  said  to  have  been  produced,  or  caused  to  shine,  or 
to  rise,  or  to  have  his  path  prepared,  etc.,  by  Indra,  ii.  12,  7  (yah 
Suryam  yah  Ushasam  jajdna]  ;  iii.  31,  15  (Indro  nribhir  ajanad 
dldydnah  sdlcam  Suryam  ushasam  gdtum  Agnim)  ;  iii.  32,  8  (jajdna 
Suryam  ushasam) ;  iii.  44,  2,  (suryam  haryann  arochayah} ;  iii.  49,  4 
(janitd  suryasya) ;  vi.  17,  5 ;  vi.  30,  5  ;  viii.  78,  7  (a  suryam  rohayo 
divi};™  viii.  87,  2;  x.  171,  4  (tvam  tyam  Indra  suryam paschd  santam 
puras  ItridM}  ;  by  Indra  and  Soma,  vi.  72,  2  (ut  suryam  nayatho 
jyotishd  saha) ;  by  Agn£,  x.  3,  2  ;  x.  156,  4  (Agne  nakshatram  ajar  am 
d  suryam  rohayo  divi  \  dadhajjyotirjanebhyah};  by  the  Ushases  (Dawns), 

217  In  v.  59,  3,  5,  and  x.  10,  9,  the  eye  of  the  sun  is  spoken  of;  and  in  x.  16,  3, 
the  affinity  of  the  eye  to  the  sun  is  indicated.  In  A.V.  v.  24,  9,  the  sun  is  said  to  he 
the  lord  of  eyes  (suryas  chakshusham  adhipatifi),  and  in  A.V.  xiii.  1,  45,  he  is  said  to 
see  beyond  the  sky,  the  earth,  and  the  waters,  and  to  he  the  one  eye  of  created  things 
(suryo  dyam  suryah  prithivtm  suryah  apo  'tipasyati  \  suryo  bhutasya  ekam  chakshur 
aruroha  divam  maKtm). 

248  In  his  note  on  this  passage  (viii.  78,  7)  Sayana  relates  a  legend,  that  formerly 
the  Panis  had  carried  off  the  cows  of  the  Angirases,  and  placed  them  on  a  mountain 
enveloped  in  darkness,  when  Indra,  after  being  lauded  by  the  Angirases,  and  suppli- 
cated to  restore  the  cows,  caused  the  sun  to  rise  that  he  might  see  them. 


SOMETIMES   ASSIGNED    TO   HIM.  159 

vii.  78,  3  (ajljanan  suryam  yajnam  agnim) ;  by  Soma,  vi.  44,  23  (ayam 
surye  adadhdj  jyotir  antaK) ;  ix.  63,  7 ;  ix.  75,  1  ;  ix.  86,  29  (tava 
jyotlmshi  pavamdna  suryah) ;  ix.  96,  5  (janitd  suryasya] ;  ix.  97,  41 ; 
ix.  107,  7;  ix.  110,  3);  by  Dhatri,  x.  190,  3  (suryd-chandramasau 
Dhdtd  yathdpurvam  akalpayat}  ;  by  Varuna,  i.  24,  8  ;  vii.  87,  1 
(quoted  above,);  by  Mitra  and' Varuna,  iv.  13,  2  (anu  vratam  Varuno 
yanti  Mitro  yat  suryam  dm  urohayanti") ;  v.  63,  4,  7  (suryam  a  dhattho 
divi) ;  Indra  and  Varuna,  vii.  82,  3  (suryam  airayatam  divi  prabhum) ; 
by  Indra  and  Vishnu,  vii.  99,  4  (urum  yajndya  chakratJiur  i*  loTcam 
janayantd  suryam  ushasam  aynim),  and  by  the  Angirases  through  their 
rites,  x.  62,  3  (ye  ritena  suryam  drohayan  divi  aprathayan  prithivlm 
mdtaram  vi}.  In  passages  of  this  description  the  divine  personality  of 
the  sun  is  thrown  into  the  background :  the  grand  luminary  becomes 
little  more  than  a  part  of  nature,  created  and  controlled  by  those 
spiritual  powers  which  exist  above  and  beyond  all  material  phenomena. 
The  divine  power  of  Mitra  and  Varuna  is  said  to  be  shown  in  the  sky, 
where  Siirya  moves  a  luminary  and  a,  bright  agent  [or  instrument]  of 
theirs ;  whom  again  they  conceal  by  clouds  and  rain,  v.  63,  4  (mdyd 
vdm  Mitrdvarund  divi  sritd  suryo  jyotis  charati  thitram  dyudham  \  tarn 
abhrena  vrishtyd  guhatho  divi}.  He  is  declared  to  be  god-b6rn,  x.  37, 1 ; 
to  be  the  son  of  the  sky,  ibid,  (devajdtdya  Icetave  Divas  putrdya  Surydya] ; 
to  have  been  drawn  by  the  gods  from  the  ocean  where  he  was  hidden 
(x.  72,  7,  see  above,  p.  48) ;  to  have  been  placed  by  the  gods  in  heaven, 
x.  88,  1 1  (yadd  id  enam  adadhur  yajniydsb  divi  devdh  suryam  dditeyam), 
where  he  is  identified  with  Agni ;  and  to  have  sprung  from  the  eye  of 
Purusha,  x.  90,  13  (chakshoh  suryo  ajdyata}.™  He  is  also  said  to  have 
been  overcome'  and  despoiled  by  Indra,  x.  43,  5  (samvargam  yan  maghavd 
suryam  jayaf),250  who,  in  some  obscure  verses  is  alluded  to  as  having 
carried  off  one  of  the  wheels  of  his  chariot,  i.  175,  4;  iv.  28,  2; 
iv.  30,  4  ;  v.  29,  10. 

(4)  Translation  of  a  'hymn  to  Surya. 

I  subjoin,  with  a  translation,  the  greater  part*  of  the  picturesque,  if 
somewhat  monotonous,  hymn,  i.  50  :    Ud  u  tyam  jdtavedasam  devam 

249  In  the  A.V.  iv.  10,  5,  the  sun  is  said  to  have  sprang  from  Vrittra  ( Vrittrajjato 
divakaraJj). 

350  See  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  92  f . 


160  HYMN   TO    SURYA. 

vahanti  ketavah  \  Arise  visvdya  suryam  \  2.  Apa  tye  tdyavo  yathd 
nakshattrd  yanti  aMulhih  \  surdya  visvachalcshase  \  3.  Adrisram  asya 
Jcetavo  vi  rasmayo  jandn  emu  \  Ihrdjanto  agnayo  yatha  \  4.  Taranir 
visvadarsato  jyotishhrid  asi  surya  \  visvam  a  bhdsi  rochanam  \  5.  Pratydn 
devdndm  visah  pratyann  ud  eshi  mdnushdn  \  pratyan  visvam  svar  drise  \ 
6.  Yena  pdvaka  chakshasd  Ihuranyantam  jandn  afou  \ « tvam  Varuna 
pafyasi  |  7.  Vi  dydm  eshi  rajas  prithu  aha  mimdno  aktubhih  \  pasyan 
janmdni  surya  \  8.  Sapta  tva  harito  rathe  vahanti  deva  surya  \  sochish- 
kesam  vichdkshana  \  9.  ayukta  sapta  sundhyuvah  suro  rathasya  naptyah  \ 
tdlhir  yati  svayuktilhih  \  10.  Ud  vayam  tamasas  pari  jyotish  pasyantah 
uttaram  \  devam  devatrd  suryam  aganmajyotir  uttamam  \ 

1.  "  The  heralds251  lead  aloft  this  god  Surya,  who  knows  all  beings, 
(manifesting  him)  to  the  universal  gaze.  2.  (Eclipsed)  by  thy  rays, 
the  stars  slink  away,  like  thieves,  before  thee  the  all-beholding 
luminary.  3.  His  rays  revealing  (his  presence)  are  visible  to  all  man- 
kind, flaming  like  fires.  4.  Traversing  (the  heavens),  all-conspicuous, 
thou  Greatest  light,  o  Surya,  and  illuminatest  the  whole  firmament.  5. 
Thou  risest  in  the  presence  of  the  race  of  gods,  of  men,  and  of  the 
entire  heaven,  that  ttou  mayest  be  beheld.  6.  With  that  glance  of 
thine  wherewith,  o  illuminator,  o  Varuna,  thou  survey est  the  busy  race 
of  men,252  7.  thou,  o  Surya,  penetratest  the  sky,  the  broad  firma- 
ment, measuring  out  the  days  with  thy  rays,  spying  out  all  creatures. 
8.  Seven  ruddy  mares  bear  thee  onward  in  thy  chariot,  o  clear-sighted 
Surya,  the  god  with  flaming  locks.  9.  The  sun  has  yoked  the  seven 
brilliant  mares,  the  daughters  of  the  car ;  with  these,  the  self-yoked,  he 
advances.  ^0.  Gazing  towards  the  upper  light  beyond  the  darkness, 
we  have  ascended  to  the  highest  luminary,  Surya,  a  god  among  the 
gods."  253 

231  In  his  translation  of  E.V.  i.  166,  1,  Professor  Miiller  renders  Jcetu  by  herald 
(see  pp.  197,  and  201),  a  sense  which  suits  the  verse  before  us  very  well. 

852  See  Professor  Benfey's  translation,  and  note  (Orient  und  Occident,  i.  p  405), 
and  the  passage  of  Roth's  Abhandlungen  (Dissertations  on  the  literature  and  history 
of  the  Veda)  p.  81  f.,  to  which  he  refers ;  and  in  which  that  writer  regards  the  reading 
janan  as  standing  for  janam,  the  ace.  sing.,  the  last  syllable  being  lengthened  on 
account  of  the  metre. 

253  I  subjoin  a  metrical  translation  of  these  verses  : 
1.  By  lustrous  heralds  led  on  high, 
The  omniscient  Sun  ascends  the  sky, 
His  glory  drawing  every  eye. 


HYMNS  TO  SURYA.  161 

The  Atharva-veda  contains  a  long  hymn  to  Surya,  xiii.  2,  partly  made 
up  of  extracts  from  the  Rig-veda. 

The  Mahabharata  (iii.  166  ff.)  also  has  a  hymn  to  the  same  god,  in 
which  he  is  styled  "  the  eye  of  the  world,  and  the  soul  of  all  embodied 
creatures,"  v.  166  (tvam  Ihdno  jagatas  chakshus  tvam  dtmd  sarva-dehi- 
nam) ;  the  source  of  all  beings,  the  body  of  observances  performed  by 
those  who  practiset  ceremonies,  ,the  refuge  of  the  Sankhyas,  the 
highest  object  of  Togins,  the  unbolted  door,  the  resort  of  those  seeking 
emancipation,  etc.,  etc. ;  v.  166  f.  (tvam  yonih  sarva-lhutdndm  tvam  dchd- 
rah  Icriydvatdm  \  tvam  gatih  sarva-sdnkhydndfh  yogindm  tvam  pardyanam  \ 
andvritdrgaladvdram  tvam  gatis  tvam  mumukshatdm) ;  and  his  celestial 
chariot  (divyam  ratham)  is  referred  to  (v.  170).  He  is  also,  we  are  told, 
said  by  those  who  understand  the  computation  of  time,  to  be  the  be- 
ginning and  end  of  that  period  of  a  thousand  yugas  known  as  the  day 
of  Brahma  (yad  oho  Brahmanah  proktam  sahasra-ytiga-sammitam  \  tasya 
tvam  ddir  antas  cha  kdlajnaih  sampralcirttitaK) ;  the  lord  of  the  Manus, 
of  their  sons,  of  the  world  sprung  from  Manu,  and  of  all  the  lords  of 
the  Manvantaras.  "When  the  time  of.  the  mundane  dissolution  has 
arrived,  the  Samvarttaka  fire,  which  reduces  all  "things  to  ashes,  issues 
from  his  wrath  (vv.  185  f . ;  compare  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  pp. 
43  f.  and  207). 

2.  All -seeing  Sun,  the  stars  so  bright, 

"Which  gleamed  throughout  the  sombre  night, 
Now  scared,  like  thieves,  sliiik  fast  away, 
Quenched  by  the  splendour  of  thy  ray. 

3.  Thy  beams  to  men  thy  presence  shew ; 

Like  blazing  fires  they  seem  to  glow.  * 

4.  Conspicuous,  rapid,  source  of  light, 
Thou  makest  all  the  welkin  bright. 

5.  In  sight  of  gods,  and  mortal  eyes, 

In  sight  of  heaven  thou  scal'st  the  skies. 

6.  Bright  god,  thou  scann'st  with  searching  ken 
The  doings  all  of  busy  men. 

7.  Thou  stridest  o'er  the  sky;  thy  rays 
Create,  and  measure  out,  our  days ; 
Thine  eye  all  living  things  surveys.    * 

8.  9.  Seven  lucid  mares  thy  chariot  bear, 
Self-yoked,  athwart  the  fields  of  air, 
Bright  Surya,  god  with  flaming  hair. 
10.  That  glow  above  the  darkness  we 
Beholding,  upward  soar  to  thee, 
For  there  among  the  gods  thy  light 
Supreme  is  seen,  divinely  bright.  11 


162 


SECTION  XI. 

SAVITRI. 
(1)  His  epithets,  characteristics,  and  functions. 

The  hymns  which  are  entirely  or  principally  devoted  to  the  cele- 
bration of  Savitri  are  the  following :  i.  35 ;  ii.  38  ;  iv.  53  ;  iv.  54  ; 
v.  81 ;  v.  82  ;  vii.  37 ;  vii.  45  ;  x.  149  ;  with  many  detached  passages 
and  verses,  such  as  i.  22,  5-8 ;  iii.  56,  6,  7 ;  iii.  62,  10-12,  etc.,  etc. 

The  epithets^  characteristics,  and  functions  of  this  god,  as  described 
in  the  Kig-veda,  are  as  follows : 

He  is  pre-eminently  the  golden  deity,  being  hiranydksha,  golden- 
eyed  (i.  35,  8) ;  hiranya-pdni,2'^  hiranya-hasta,  golden-handed  (i.  22,  5  ; 
i.  35,  9,  10;tiii.  54,  ll ;  vi.  50,  8  ;  vi.  71,  4;  vii.  38,  2 ;  S.V.  i.  464; 
Vaj.  S.  i.  16;  iv.  25;  A.V.  iii.  21,  8;  vii.  14,  2;  vii.  115,  2;255 
hiranya-jihva,  golden-tongued  (vi.  71,  3) ;  sujihva,  beautiful-ton gued 
(iii.  54,  11;  vii.  45,  4);  mandra-jihva,.  pleasant-tongued  (vi.  71,  4). 
He  invests  himself  with  golden  or  tawny  mail  (pisangam  drdpim, 
iv.  53,  2);  and  assumes  all  forms  (visvd  rupdni  prati  munchate  kavih, 
v.  81,  2).  He  is  also  harikesa,  the  yellow-haired  (x.  139,  1).  Luminous 
in  his  aspect,  he  ascends  a  golden  car,  drawn  by  radiant,  brown, 
white-footed,  horses ;  f-nd  beholding  all  creatures,  he  pursues  an 
ascending  and  descending  path,  i.  35,  2-5  ;  vii.  45,  1  (hiranyayena 
Savita  rathena  devo  ydti  Ihuvandni  pasyan  \  ydti  devah  pravatd  ydti 
udvatd  ydti  subrdlhydm  yajato  haribhydm  \  krisanair  visvarupaih 

254  See  the  tasteless  explanations  of  this  epithet  given  by  the  commentator  and  the 
Kaushitaki  Brahmana,  as  mentioned  in  Rosen's  and  Wilson's  notes  on  i.  22,  5 ;  and 
see  also  "Weber's  Ind.  Studie'n,  ii.  306.     The  same  epithet  is  given  to  Savitri  in  the 
Vaj.  Sanhita,  i.  16,  where  see  the  commentary.     Savitri  is  also  called  prithupani, 
broad-handed    (ii.   38,    2),  and  supcini,   beautiful-handed   (iii.   33,   6;    vii.  45,  4). 
Tvashtri,  too,  is  called  supani  (iii.  54,  12),  as  are  also  Mitra  and  Varuna  (iii.  56,  7). 

255  According  to  the  A.V.  i.  33,  1,  he,  as  well  as  Agni,  was  born  in  the  golden- 
coloured  waters  (hiranyavarnah  suchayah  pavakah  yasu  jatah  Savita  yasu  Agnih] . 


SAVITRI'S  EPITHETS,  CHARACTERISTICS,  ETC.  163 

hiranya-samyam  yajato  brihantam  a  asthdd  ratham  savitd  chitrabhd- 
nuh  |  vijandn  sytivdh  sitipddah  akhyan  ratham  hiranyapraugam  vahan- 
tah  \  savitd  suratno  antarikshaprdh  vahamuno  asvaiK).  Surrounded  by 
a  golden  lustre,  hiranyaylm  amatim  (iii.  38,  8  ;  vii.  38,  1 ;  vii.  45, 
3),  lie  illuminates  the  atmosphere,  and  all  the  regions  of  the  earth, 
i.  35,  7,  8;»iv.  '14,  2;  iv..  53,  4;  v.  81,  2  (vi  suparno  antarikshdni 
akhyat  \  ashtau  vi  akhyat  kakubhjth  prithivydh  \  urdhvam  ketum  savita 
devo  asrej  jyotir  visvasmai  bhuvandya  krinvan  \  addbhyo  bhuvandni  pra- 
chdkasat  \  vi  ndkam  akhyat  Savita}.  His  robust  and  golden  arms,256 
which  he  stretches  out  to  bless,  and  infuse  energy  into,  all  creatures, 
reach  to  the  utmost  ends  of  heaven,  ii.  38,  2;  iv.  53,  3,  4;  vi.  71,  1, 
5 ;  vii.  45,  2  (visvasya  hi  srushtaye  devah  urdhvah  pra  bdhavd  prithu- 
pdnih  sisartti  \  pra  bdhu  asrdk  Savitd  savlmani  \  ud  u  sya  devah  Savitd 
hiranyayd  bdhu  ayamsta  savandya  sukratuh  \  ud  asya  bdhu  sithird  bri- 
hantd  hiranyayd  divo  antdn  anashtdm).  In  one  place,  however  (vi.  71, 
4),  he  is  called  ayohanu,  the  iron-jawed,  though  even  there  the  com- 
mentator says  that  ayas,  which  ordinarily  means  iron,  is  to  be  rendered 
by  gold.  His  ancient  paths  in  the  sky  are  said  to  be  free  from  dust, 
i.  35,  11  (ye  te  panthdh  Savitah  purvydso  arenavah  sukritdh  antarikshe). 
He  is  called  (like  Yaruna  and  others  of  the  gods)  asura,*&  divine  spirit 
(i.  35,  7,  10;  iv.  53,  1).  His  will  and  independent  authority  cannot 
be  resisted  by  Indra,  Varuna,  Mitra,  Aryaman,  Rudra,  or  by  any  other 
being,  ii.  38,  7,  9  ;  v.  82,  2  (nakir  asya  tdni  vratd  devasya  Savitur 
minanti  \  na  yasya  Indro  Varuno  na  Mitro  vratam  Aryamd  na  minanti 
Rudrah  \  asya  hi  svayasastaram  Savituh  kach  chana  priyam  \  na  minanti 
svardjyam}.  He  observes  fixed  laws,  iv.  53,  4;  x.  34.  8;  x.  139,  3 
(vratdni  devah  Savitd  'bhirakshate  \  Savitd  satyadharmd}.  The  other 
gods  follow  his  lead,  v.  81,  3  (yasya  praydnam  anu  anye  id  yayur 
devdfi}.  The  waters  and  the  wind  obey  his  ordinance,  ii.  38,  2  (dpai 
chid  asya  vrate  d  nimrigrdh  ayam  chid  vdto  ramate  parijman).  His 
praises  are  celebrated  by  the  Vasus,  by  Aditi,  by  the  royal  Yaruna,  by 
Mitra,  and  by  Aryaman,  vii.  38,  3,  4  (apt  stiitah  Savitd  devo  astu  yanl 
d  chid  visve  Vasavo  grinanti  \  alhi  yam  devi  Actitir  grindti  savam  devasya 

256  Indra,  too,  is  called  hiranya-bahu,  golden-armed,  vii.  34,  4.  Agni  is  said  to 
raise  aloft  his  arms  like  Savitri,  i.  95,  7.  In  vii.  79,  2j  the  Dawns  are  said  to  send 
forth  light  as  Savitri  stretches  out  his  arm?:  In  i.  190,  3,  also  the  arms  of  Savitri 
are  alluded  to.  In  vii.  62,  5,  Mitra  and  Varuna  are  supplicated  to  stretch  out 
their  arms. 


164  SAVITRI'S  FUNCTIONS. 

Savitur  jushdnd  \  abhi  samrd/o  Varuno  grinanti  abhi  Mitrdso  Aryamd 
sajoshdh).  He  is  lord  of  all  desirable  things,  and  sends  blessings  from 
the  sky,  from  the  atmosphere,  and  from  the  earth,  i.  24,  3  ;  ii.  38,  11 
(isdndm  vdrydndm  \  asmabhyam  tad  divo  adlhyah  prithivyds  tvayd  dattam 
kdmyam  rddhah  a  gat  \  sain  yat  stotribhyah  dpaye  bhavdti  urusamsdya 
Savitar  jaritre).  He  impels  the  car  of  the  Asvins  b'efore  the  dawn,  i. 
34,  10  (yuvor  hi  purvam  Savitd  ushaso  ratham  ritdya  chitram  ghrita- 
vantam  ishyati}.  He  is  prajdpati?51  the  lord  of  all  creatures,  the  sup- 
porter of  the  sky  and  of  the  world,  and  is  supplicated  to  hasten  to  his 
worshippers  with  the  same  eagerness  as  cattle  to  a  village,  as  warriors 
to  their  horses,  as  a  cow  to  give  milk  to  her  calf,  as  a  husband  to  his 
wife,  iv.  53,  2;  iv.  54,  4;  x.  149,  1,  4258  (Divo  dharttd  bhuvanasya 
prajdpatih  I  Savitd  yantraih  prithivim  aramndd  askambhane  Savitd 
dydm  adrimhat  \  4.  Gdvah  iva  grdmam  yuyudhir  ivdsvdn  vdsrena  vatsafh 
sumandh  duhdnd  \  patir  iva  jdydm  abhi  no  ni  etu  dhartd  divah  Savitd 
visvavdrah}.  In  v.  82,  7,  he  is  called  visvadeva,  "in  all  attributes  a 
god."  He  measured  (or  fashioned)  the  terrestrial  regions,  v.  81,  3 
(yah  parthivdni  vi  mame].  He  bestows  immortality  on  the  gods,  iv. 
54,  2  =  Yaj.  Sanh.  xxxiii.  54  (devebhyo  hi  prathamam  yajniyebhyo 

C* 

amritatvam  suvasi  lhagam  uttamam),  as  he  did  on  the  Bibhus,  who 
by  the  greatness  of  their  merits  attained  to  his  abode,  i.  110,  2,  3 
(charitasya  bhumand  agachhata  Savitur  ddsusho  griham  \  tat  Savitd  vo 
amritatvam  dsuvat).  In  x.  17,  4,  he  is  prayed  to  convey  the  departed 
spirit  to  the  abode  of  the  right'eous  (yatrdsate  sukrito  yatra  te  yayus 
tatra  tvd  devah  Savitd  dadhdtu}.  He  is  supplicated  to  deliver  his  wor- 
shippers from,,sin,  iv.  54,  3  (achittl  yach  chakrima  daivye  jane  .  .  .  .  | 
deveshu  cha  Savitar  mdnu^heshu  cha  tvafh  no  attra  suvatdd  andgasah). 

Savitri  Lis  sometimes  called  apdm  napdt,  son  of  the  waters  (x.  149, 
2),  an  epithet  which  is  more  commonly  applied  to  Agni. 

257  In  the  Taittirlya  Brahmana,  i.  6,  4,  1  (p.  117),  it  is  said,  Prajapatih  Savitd 
bhutva  prajah  asrijata,  "  Prajapati,  becoming  Savitri,  created  living  beings."     On 
the  relation  of  Savitri  and  Prajapati  see  Weber,  "  Omina  und  Portenta,"  pp.  386, 
392 ;  and  the  passage  of  the  8'atapatha  Brahmana,  xii.  3,  5,  1,  where  it  is  said  that 
people  are  accustomed  to  identify  Savitri  with  Prajapati,  Yo  hy  eva  Savita  sa  Prajd- 
patir  iti  vadantah,  etc.,  etc. 

258  It  is  not  clear  whethef  it  is  Savitri  or  the  aerial  ocean  (samudra)  from  which 
earth,  atmosphere,  and  sky  are  said  in  x.  149,  2,  to  have  sprung.     See  the  4th  vol. 
of  this  work,  p.  96. 


DERIVATION  OF  SAVITRI'S  NAME.  165 


(2)  Passages  in  which  the  origin  of  his  name  seems  to  be  alluded  to. 

The  word  Savitri  is  defined  by  Taska  (Nirukta,  x.  31  as  meaning 
sarvasya  prasavitd,  but  he  does  not  explain  in  what  sense  prasavitd  is 
to  be  taken.  The  root  su  or  su,  from  which  it  is  derived,  has  three 
principal  significations,  (1)  to  generate  or  bring  forth;  (2)  to  pour 
forth  a  libation ;  and  (3)  to  sen<?  or  impel.  When  treating  of  deriva- 
tives of  this  root  as  applied  to  Savitri,  Sayana  sometimes  gives  them  the 
sense  of  sending  or  impelling,  and  sometimes  of  permitting  or  authorizing 
(anujna].  In  a  few  places  he  explains  the  root  as  meaning  to  beget. 
(Thus  on  i.  113,  1,  he  renders  prasutd  by  utpannd,  and  savah  by  ut- 
pattih}.  The  word  prasavitri,  as  well  as  various  other  derivatives  of 
the  root  su,  are  introduced  in  numerous  passages  of  the  Big-veda  relat- 
ing to  the  god  Savitri,  with  evident  reference  to  the  derivation  of  that 
name  from  the  same  root,  and  with  a  constant  play  upon  the  words,259 
such  as  is  unexampled  in  the  case  of  any  other  deity. 

The  following  are  some  of  the  passages  of  the  Eig-veda  in  which 
these  derivatives  occur : 

i.  124,  1.  Devo  no  atra  Savitd  nu  artham  prdsdvld  fyipat  pro,  cha- 
tushpad  ityai  \  "  The  god  Savitri  hath  impelled  (or  aroused)  both  two- 
footed  and  four-footed  creatures  to  pursue  their  several  objects." 

i.  157,  1.  Prdsdvld  devah  Savitd  jagat  prithak  \  "The  god  Savitri 
has  aroused  each  moving  thing  "  (comp.  i.  159,  3). 

v.  81,  2  (=Yaj.  San.  xiii.  3).  Visvd  rupdni  prati  munchate  kavih 
prdsdvld  lhadram  dvipade  chatushpade  \  vi  ndkam  akhyat  Savitd  varenyo 
anu  praydnaim  Ushaso  virdjati  \  5.  Via  Isishe  prasavasya  tvam  ekah  id 
uta  Pushd  lhavasi  deva  ydmalhih  \  "The  wise  (Savitri)  puts  on  (or, 
manifests)  all  forms.  He  hath  sent  prosperity  to  biped  and  quadruped. 
Savitri,  the  object  of  our  desire,  has  illuminated  the  sky.  He  shines 
after  the  path  of  the  Dawn."  5.  "  Thou  alone  art  the  lord  of  vivifying 
power,  and  by  thy  movements,  o  god,  thou  becomest  Pushan,  (or  the 
nourisher)." 

i.  110,  2.  Saudhanvandsas  charitasya   bhumand   ayachhata   Savitur 

259  See  Roth's  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  p.  76.  I  cannot  form  an  opinion 
whether  this  feature  in  the  hymns  in  question  affords  any  sufficient  ground  for  regard- 
ing them  as  artificial  in  character,  and  consequently  as  comparatively  late  in  their 
origin. 


166  PASSAGES  WHERE  THE  ORIGIN  OF 

ddsusho  griham  \  3.  Tat  Savitd  vo  amritatvam  dsuvat  \  "  Sons  of 
Sudhanvan  (Kibhus),  by  the  greatness  of  your  deeds  ye  arrived  at  the 
house  of  the  bountiful  Savitri.  3.  Savitri  bestowed  on  you  (dswoaf) 
that  immortality." 

i.  159,  5.  Tad  rddho  adya  Savitur  varenyam  vayam  devasya  prasave 
mandmahe  \  "That  desirable  wealth  we  to-day  seek' through  the 
favouring  impulse  of  the  divine  Savitri." 

ii.  38,  1.  Ud  u  syah  devah  Savita  savaya  sasvatamam  tad-apdh  vahnir 
asthat  |  "  The  god  Savitri  hath  arisen  to  impel  (or  vivify)  us,  he  who 
continually  so  works,  the  supporter." 

iii.  33,  6  (Nir.  ii.  26).  Devo  anayat  Savita  supdnis  tasya  vayam  pra- 
save ydmah  urvlh  \  "  The  god  Savitri  hath  led  (us,  i.e.  the  waters) ;  by 
his  propulsion  we  flow  on  broadly." 

iii.  56,  6.  Trir  a  divah  Savitah  vdrydni  dive  dive  dsuva  trir  no  ahnah  [ 
7.  Trir  d  divah  Savitd  soshaviti  rdjdnd  Mitrdvarund  supdnl  \  "Thrice 
every  day,  o  Savitri,  send  us  desirable  things  from  the  sky.  7.  Thrice 
Savitri  continues  to  send  down  (these  things  to  us)  from  the  sky ;  and 
so  also  do  the  fair-handed  Mitra  and  Yaruna." 

iv.  53,  3.  Pra  Mhu  asrdjc  Savitd  savlmani  nivesayan  prasuvann  ak- 
tubhir  jagat  \  6.  Brihatsumnah  prasavitd  nivesano  jagatah  sthdtur  ulha- 
yasya  yo  vail  \  sa  no  devah  Savitd  sarma  yachhatu  \  "  Savitri  hath 
stretched  out  his  arms  in  his  vivifying  energy  (savlmani™},  stablish- 
ing  and  animating  all  that  moves  by  his  rays.  6.  May  that  god 
Savitri,  who  bestows  great  happiness,  the  vivifier,  the  stablisher,  who 
is  lord  both  of  that  which  moves  and  of  that  which  is  stationary, 
bestow  on  us  protection." 

iv.  54,  3.  Achittl  yachfchakrima  daivye  jane  dlnair  dakshaih  pralhutl 
purushvatd  \  deveshu  cha  Savitar  mdnusheshu  cha  tvam  no  'atra  suvatdd 
andgasah  \  "  Whatever  (offence)  we  have  committed  by  want  of 
thought,  against  the  divine  race,  by  feebleness  of  understanding,  by 
violence,  after  the  manner  of  men,  and  either  against  gods  or  men,  do 
'thou,  o  Savitri,  constitute  (suvatdt')  us  sinless." 

v.  82,  3.  Sa  hi  ratnani  ddsushe  suvdti  Savitd  Bhagah  \  4.  Adya  no 
devah  S&vitah  prajdvat  sdvlh  saulhagam  \  pard  dushvapnyam  sava  \ 

5.  Visvdni  deva  Savitar  duritdni  pard  suva  yad  bhadram  tan  nah  asuva  \ 

6.  Andgasah  Aditaye  devasya  Savituh  save  \   visvd  vdmdni  dhlmahi  \ 

260  This  word  also  occurs  in  Sama-veda,  i.  464. 


SAVITRI'S  NAME  IS  ALLUDED  TO.  167 

7.  A  visvadevam  satpatim  sulctair  adya  vrinlmahe  \  satyasavam  Savi- 
tdram  \  "  May  he,  Savitri,  who  is  Bhaga,  (or  the  protector,  bhaga}, 
send  wealth  to  his  worshipper.  4.  Send  (sdvlh)  to-day,  o  divine 
Savitri,  prosperity  with  progeny:  send  away  (para-suva)  sleeplessness 
(compare  x.  37,  4,  where  a  similar  expression  (apa  suva)  is  employed 
in  the  case  of*  Surya).  5.  Send  away,  o  divine  Savitri,  all  calamities; 
send  (dsuva)  us  what  is  good.  JS.  May  we,  becoming  sinless  towards 
Aditi,  through  the  influence  (sava)  of  the  divine  Savitri,  possess  all 
things  desirable.  7.  We  seek  to-day,  with  hymns,  for  Savitri,  who 
possesses  true  energy  (satya-sava M1),  and  all  divine  attributes,  the  lord 
of  the  good." 

vi.  71,  1.  Ud  u  syah  devah  Savitd  hiranyayd  Idhu  ayamsta  savandya 
sukratuh  \  2.  Devasya  vayam  Savituh  savlmani  freshthe  sydma  vasunas 
cha  ddvane  \  yo  vi&asya  dvipado  yas  chatushpado  niveiane  prasave 
chdsi  bhumanah  \  6.  Vdmam  adya  Savitar  vdmam  u  ho  dive  dive 
vdmam  asmabhyam  sdvih  \  "  The  potent  god  Savitri  hath  stretched 
out  his  golden  arms  to  vivify  (or  impart  energy).  2.  May  we  share 
i^  the  excellent  vivifying  power  (compare  x.  36,  12)  of  the  god 
Savitri,  and  in  the  bestowal  of  wealth  by  thee,  who  continuest  to 
stablish  and  vivify  the  entire  two-footed  and  four-footed  world.  6 
Send  to  us  to-day,  Savitri,  what  is  desirable ;  send  it  to  us  to-morrow, 
and  every  day." 

vii.  38,  2.  Ud  u  tishtha  Savitah  .  .  .  d  nribhyo  marttabhojanam  suvd' 
nah  |  4.  A lihi  yam  devl  Aditir  grindti  savarh  devasya  Savitur  j'ushdnd  \ 
abhi  samrdjo  Varuno  grinanti  abhi  Mitrdso  Aryamd  sajoshdh  \  "  Kise, 
Savitri,  .  .  .  sending  (dsuvdnah)  to  men  the  food  which  is  fit  for  mor- 
tals. 4.  "Whom  (i.e.  Savitri)  the  goddess  Aditi  praises,  welcoming  the 
vivifying  power  of  the  divine  Savitri,  whom  Varuna,  Mitra,  and  Ar- 
yaman  laud  in  concert." 

vii.  40,  1.  Yad  adya  devah  Savitd  suvdti  sydma  asya  ratnino  vibhdge  \ 
"  May  we  partake  in  the  distribution  (of  wealth)  which  the  opulent  god 
Savitri  shall  send  to-day."  • 

vii.  45,  1.  A  devo  ydtu  Savitd  suratno  atitariksha-prtih  vahamdno 
aivaih  \  haste  dadhdno  naryd  puruni  nivesayan  cha  prasuvan  cha  bhuma  \ 
3.  Sa  gha  no  devah  Savitd  sahdvd  sdvuhad  vasupatir  vasuni  \  "  May  the 

M1  The  same  epithet  is  applied  to  him  in  x.  36,  13.  It  occurs  also  in  the  Sama- 
veda,  i.  464. 


168  SAVITRI  SOMETIMES  DISTINGUISHED  FROM, 

god  Savitri  approach,  rich  in  treasures,  filling  the  atmosphere,  borne 
by  horses,  holding  in  his  hand  many  gifts  suitable  for  men,  stablishing 
and  vivifying  the  world.  3.  May  the  powerful  god  Savitri,  lord  of 
wealth,  send  us  riches." 

viii.  91,  6.  Asavam  Savitur  yatnd  Bhagasyeva  Ihujim  huve  \  Agnim 
samudravdsasam  \  "I  invoke  the  sea-clothed  Agni,  as  (.T  invoke)  the 
vivifying  power  (savam™}  of  Savitrigand  the  bounty  of  Bhaga." 

x.  35,  7.  Sreshtham  no  adya  Savitar  varenyam  bhdgam  dsuva  sa  hi 
ratnadhdh  asi  \  "  Send  us  to-day,  o  god  Savitri,  a  most  excellent  and 
desirable  portion,  for  thou  art  the  possessor  of  riches." 

x.  36,  14.  Savitd  nah  suvatu  sarvatdtim  \  "May  Savitri  send  (stivatu) 
all  prosperity,"  etc. 

x.  100,  8.  Apa  amivdm  Savita  sdvishad  nyak  \  "May  Savitri  remove 
(apasdvishaf)  sickness." 

x.  139,  1.  Suryarasmir  harikesah  purastdt  Savita  jyotir  ud  ay  an 
ajasram  \  tasya  Pushd  prasave  ydti  vidvdn  sampasyan  visvd  bhuvandni 
gopdh  \  "  Invested  with  the  solar  .rays,  with  yellow  hair,  Savitri  raises 
aloft  his  light  continually  from  the  east.  In  his  energy  (prasave]  the 
wise  Pushan  marches,  beholding  all  worlds,  a  guardian." 
•  Compare  A*.Y.  v.  24,  1  ;  vii.  14,  1,  3;  vii.  15,  1. 

The  preceding  passages  will  suffice  to  show  the  extent  to  which  this 
play  on  words  is  carried  in  the  hymns  addressed  to  Savitri. 

Derivatives  from  the  same  root  are,  as  we  have  already  seen,  also 
applied  to  Surya,  as  prasavitd  'and  prasutah,  in  R. V.  vii.  63,  2  and  4 ; 
and  apasuva  in  x.  37,  4;  to  Indra  (haryasva-prasutdh,  iii.  30,  12) ;  to 
Yaruna  (pardsuva,  ii.  28,  9) ;  and  to  Mitra,  Aryaman,  Savitri,  and 
Bhaga  (suvdtt,  vii.  66,  4).  In  vii.  77,  1,  TJshas  (the  Dawn)  is  said  to 
rouse  (prasuvantl}  all  living  creatures  into  motion.  In  viii.  18,  1,  the 
impulse,  vivifying  power,  or  favouring  aid  (savlmani)  of  the  Adityas  is 
referred  to. 

(3)  Savitri,  sometimes  distinguished  from,  sometimes  identified  with, 
„  Surya. 

Savitri  is  sometimes  expressly  distinguished  from  Surya.  Thus  he  is 
said  in  i.  35,  9,  to  approach,  or  (according  to  Prof.  Benfey's  rendering)  to 

262  In  i.  164,  26,  and  ix.  67,  25,  particularly  in  the  latter  passage,  sava  may  mean 
a  libation  of  soma.  Compare  brahmasavaih  in  ix.  67,  24. 


SOMETIMES  IDENTIFIED  WITH,  SURYA.  169 

bring  Surya  (vetisuryam) ; 263  ini.  123,  3,  to  declare  men  sinless  towards 
Surya261  (devo  no  attra  Savitd  damundh  andgaso  vochati  Surydyti) ;  and  in 
v.  81,  4,  to  combine  with  the  rays  of  Surya  (uta  Suryasya  rasmibhih 
samuchyasi}.  In  explanation  of  the  last  passage,  Sayana  remarks,  that 
before  his  rising  the  sun  is  called  Savitri,  and  from  his  rising  till  his 
setting  Surya'(udaydt  purvabhdvl  Savitd  \  udaydstamayavarttl  Suryah 
iti}.  And  similarly. Yaska  says,  I^rukta  xii.  12  :  tasya  kdlo  yadd  dyaur 
apahatatamaskd  dklrnarasmir  lhavati  \  "the  time  of  Savitri's  appearance 
is  when  darkness  has  been  removed,  and  the  rays  of  light  have  become 
diffused  over  the  sky."  If  so,  his  action  must  also  extend  to  a  later  period 
of  the  day,  as  in  vii.  66,  4,  he  is  prayed  along  with  Mitra  (the  god  of 
the  day)  and  Aryaman  and  Bhaga,  to  vivify  the  worshipper  after  the 
rising  of  the  sun  (yad  adya  sure  udite  andgdh  Mitro  Aryamd  \  suvdti 
Savitd  Bhagah}.  Again,  in  x.  139,  1,  Savitri  is  termed  surya-rasmi, 
"invested  with  the  rays  of  Surya;"  and  in  the  8th  and  10th  verses 
of  vii.  35  (verse  8 :  iam  nah  Suryah  uruchakshdh  I  10 :  sam  no  devah 
Savitd  trdyamdnah},  as  well  as  in  x.  1-81,3  (Dhdtur  dyutdndt  Savitus  cJia 
Vishnor  d  Surydd  abharan  gJiarmam  ete\  the  two  gods  are  separately 
mentioned,  unless  we  are  to  suppose  (but  apparently  without  reason) 
that  in  the  last  passage  the  writer  means  to  identify  all*  the  four  gods 
who  are  there  named,  viz.  Dhatri,  Savitri,  Vishnu,  and  Surya.  In 
i.  157,  1  also,  where  several  gods  are  mentioned  besides  Siirya  and 
Savitri,  the  last  two  appear  to  be  distinguished  :  abodhi  Agnir  j'mah 
udeti  Suryo  vi  Ushds  chandrd  mahl  dvo  archishd  \  ayukshdtdm  Asvind 
ydtave  ratham  prdsdvld  devah  Savitd  jagat  prithak  \  "  Agni  has  awoke 
from  the  earth  :  Surya  rises  ;  the  great  and  bright  Ushas  has  dawned 
with  her  radiance  ;  the  Asvins  have  yoked  their  car  to  go  ;  Savitri  has 
vivified  each  moving  creature."  In  other  texts,  however,  the  two 
names  appear  to  be  employed  indiscriminately  to  denote  the  same 
deity,  viz.  in  iv.  14,  2  (urdhvam  Return  Savitd  devo  asrej  jyotir  visvasmai 
Ihuvandya  krinvan  \  d  aprdh  dydvd-prithivl  antariksham  vi  Suryo  ras- 


263  Sayana  remarks  here  that,  though  the  godhead  <Jf  Savitri  and  Surya  is  iden- 
tical, they  may  yet,  from  their  representing  different  forms,  be  spoken  of  as  respec- 
tively approaching  and  approached  (yadyapi  savitri-suryayor  ekadevatatvam  tathapi 
murtti-bhedena  gantri-gantavya-bhavah) . 

264  As  in  another  place  (x.  12,  8),  he  is  supplicated,  along  with  Mitra  and  Aditi,  to 
declare  the  worshippers  sinless  towards  Varuna. 


170  SAVITRI  AND  OTHER  DEITIES. 

mibhis  chekitanah} ;  x.  158,  1  (Suryo  no  divas  patu  .  .  .  |  2.  JosKa 
Savitah  .  .  .  |  3.  Chakshur  no  devah  Savita  .  .  .  |  5.  Susandrisam  tvd 
vayam  prati  pasyema  Surya).  In  i.  35,  7,  also  the  name  Surya  may 
be  employed  as  synonymous  with  Savitri,  which  is  found  in  the  other 
verses  of  the  hymn,  although,  as  we  have  already  seen,  the  two  deities 
appear  to  be  distinguished  in  verse  9.  See  also  i.  124,  1°;  and  vii.  63, 
1-4  (when  the  word  Surya  is  used  inverses  1,  2,  and  3,  and  Savitri  in 
verse  4,  and  where  the  functions  expressed  by  the  derivatives  of  the 
root  su,  which,  as  we  have  seen,  are  most  generally  assigned  to  Savitri, 
are  in  verses  2  and  4  predicated  of  Surya). 

In  v.  81,  4  and  5  (uta  Mitro  lhavasi  deva  dharmdbhih  \  5.  Ufa  Pushd 
lhavasi  deva  ydmabhih'),  Savitri  is  identified  with  Mitra  and  Pushan, 
or  is,  at  least,  described  as  fulfilling  the  proper  function  of  those  gods. 
And  similarly  in  v.  82,  1,  3,  and  vii.  38,  1,  6  (unless  with  Prof.  Roth, 
«.«?.  we  take  Bhaga  as  a  simple  epithet),  Savitri  seems  to  be  identified 
with  the  god  of  that  name.  On  the  other  hand,  he  is  clearly  distin- 
guished from  these  and  other  deities,  in  such  texts  as  iii.  54,  11,  12; 
vi.  49,  14;  vi.  50,  1,  13;  viii.  18,  3;  viii.  91,  6;  x.  139,  1. 

The  word  Savitri  is  not  always  a  proper  name ;  but  is  sometimes 
used  as  an  epithet.  Thus  in  ii.  30,  1,  it  seems  to  express  an  attribute 
of  Indra ;  and  in  iii.  55,  19,  and  x.  10,  5  (devas  Tvashtd  savitd  vis- 
varupah\  to  be,  as  well  as  visvarupa,  an  epithet  of  Tvashtri.  As 
applied  to  this  god,  it  probably  means  rather  the  generator,  than  the 
vivifier. 


171 


SECTION    XII. 
•  _ » 

PUSHAN. 

I  commence  my  description  of  this  deity  by  translating  the  account 
given  of  him  in  the  Sanskrit  and  German  Lexicon  of  Messrs.  Bothlingk 
and  Koth,  vol.  iv.  p.  854  f. 

(1)  Functions  and  epithets  of  Pushan. 

"Pushan  is  a  protector  and  multiplier  of  cattle  (pa&upa)  and  of 
human  possessions  in  general  (pushtimbhara,  B..V.  vi.  3,  7).  As  a 
cowherd  he  carries  an  ox-goad  (vi.  53,  9  ;  vi.  58,  2)  and  he  is  drawn 
by  goats  (ajusva}.  In  character  he"  is  a  solar  deity,265  beholds  the 
entire  universe,  and  is  a  guide  on  roads  and  journies  (i.  42,  1 ;  x.  17, 
6 ;  x.  59,  7 ;  x.  85,  26 ;  A.V.  vi.  73,  3),  and  to  the  other  world  (pa- 
thaspati,  prapathya  (x.  17,  3,  5 ;  A.V.  xvi.  9,  2 ;  xviii.  2,  53).  He  is 
called  the  lover  of  his  sister  Surya  (vi.  55,  4,  5 ;  vi.  58,  4).  He  aids 
in  the  revolutions  of  day  and  night  (i.  23,  13-15) ;  and  shares  with 
Soma  the  guardianship  of  living  creatures  (Soma-pushanau,  ii.  40,  1  ff.). 
He  is  invoked  along  with  the  most  various  deities,  but  most  frequently 
with  Indra  (Indrd-pushanau,  i.  162,  2;  vii.  35,  1),  and  Bhaga  (iv.  30, 
24  ;  v.  41,  4  \  v.  46,  2  ;  x.  125,  2.  Compare  S'atapatha  Brahmana  xi. 
4,  3,  3 ;  Katy.  S'r.  v.  13,  1).  His  most  remarkable  epithets,  in  ad- 
dition to  those  above  specified,  are  aghrtni,  kapardin,  Jcarambhad,  dasra, 
dasma,  dasmavarchas,  nardsamsa  (R.V.  i.  106,  4;  x.  64,  3)  mmucho 
napdt,  vimochana.  Compare  especially  the  hymns  E.Y.  vi.  53-58 ; 
x.  26."  The  reader  can  also  consult  the  remarks  on  this  god  given  in 
the  Introductions  to  Professor  Wilson's  translation  of  the  Big-veda,  * 
vol.  i.  p.  xxxv.  and  vol.  iii.  p.  xii. 

The   hymns  which   are   exclusively  devoted  to  the  celebration  of 

865  In  Nir.  vii.  9,  where  R.V.  x.  17,  3,  is  quoted,  Yaska  explains  the  words  bhuvan- 
asya  gopah  there  applied  to  Pushan,  by  sarvesham  bhutanam  gopayita  adityah  |  "  the 
sun,  the  preserver  of  all  heings." 


172  FUNCTIONS  AND  EPITHETS  OF  PUSHAN. 

Pushan  are  i.  42  ;  i.  138  ;  vi.  53-56  ;  vi.  58  ;  and  x.  26.  In 
ii.  40,  he  is  invoked  along  with  Soma,  and  in  vi.  57,  in  company 
with  Indra.  The  single  or  detached  verses  of  other  hymns  in  which 
he  is  mentioned  are  numerous.  In  addition  to  the  epithets  above 
specified  by  Professor  Eoth,  I  note  the  following,  and  others  will 
be  found,  in  the  hymns  which  are  translated  below  :  agohya,  not 
to  be  hidden  (x.  64,  3) ;  anarvan,.  resistless  (v,i.  48,  15) ;  abliyar- 
dhayajvan,  bringing  blessings  (vi.  50,  5);266  asura,  divine  (v.  51,  11); 
kshayadvlra,  ruler  of  heroes  (i.  106,  4);  tavyas,  strong,  and  tura, 
vigorous  (v.  43,  9);  tuvijdta,  of  powerful  nature  (i.  138,  1) ;  purandhi, 
wise  (ii.  31,  4) ;  puruuasu,  abounding  in  wealth  (viii.  4,  15) ;  man- 
tumat,  wise  in  counsel  (i.  42,  5) ;  mamhishtha,  most  bountiful  (viii.  4, 
18) ;  mayobhu,  beneficent  (i.  138,  2) ;  vdjin,  bestower  of  food  (i.  106, 
4);  sakra,  powerful,  (viii,  4,  15);  visvadevya,  distinguished  by  all 
divine  attributes  (x.  92,  13);  visvasaulhaga,  bestowing  all  blessings 
(i.  42,  6)  ;  visvavedas,  knowing  all  things  (i.  89,  6)  ;  hiranyavdsl- 
mattama,  skilful  wielder  of  a  golden  spear  (i.  42,  6) ;  and  Soma  is  said 
to  be  like  Pushan  an  impeller  of  the  soul  (dhljavana).  He  is  the  lord 
of  all  things  moving  and  stationary,  the  inspirer  of  the  soul,  an  un- 
conquerable'protector  and  defender,  and  is  besought  to  give  increase  of 
wealth,  i.  89,  5  (tarn  Isdnam  jagatas  tastushas  patim  dhiyamjinvam 
avase  humahe  vayam  \  Pushd  no  yathd  vedasdm  asad  vridhe  rakshitd 
pdyur  adabdhah  svastaye  \  compare  ii.  1,6).  He  is  besought  to  main- 
tain his  friendship  steadfast  like  a  skin  without  holes  and  well  filled 
with  curds ;  he  is  declared  to  transcend  mortals,  and  to  be  equal  to 
the  gods,  in  glory ;  and  is  prayed  to  protect  his  servants  in  battle  and 
to  defend  them  as  of  old,  vi.  48,  18  (driter  iva  te  avrikam  astu  sakhyam  \ 
achhidrasya  dadhanvatah  supurnasya  dadhanvatah  \  19.  Paro  hi  martyair 
an  samo  devair  uta  sriyd  \  abhi  khyah  Pushan  pritandsu  nas  tvam  ova 
nunam  yathd  purd}.  He  is  said  to  regard,  and  to  see  clearly  and  at 
once,  all  creatures,  iii.  62,  9  (yo  visvd  abhi  vipaiyati  bhuvand  sam  cha 
pasyati  \  sa  nah  Pushd  \ita  bhuvat},  and  in  x.  139,  1,  is  associated 

266  "  Spenden  entgegenbringend"  (Roth).  Yaska  (Nir.  vi.  6)  explains  the  compound 
as  abhyardhayan  yajati,  "one  who  increasing,  worships,"  and  Sayana  expands  this 
into  "  prospering  his  worshippers "  (stotrin  abhyardhayan  samriddhan  kurvan  yo 
yajati  dhanena  pujayati  tadrisaK)  ;  Eoth,  in  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  p.  76, 
inclines  to  the  same  interpretation. 


FUNCTIONS  AND  EPITHETS  OF  PUSHAN.  173 

•with  Savitri  and  is  described  as  moving  onward  under  his  impulse,  and 
as  knowing  and  perceiving  all  creatures,  a  guardian  (tasya  Pushd  pra- 
save  ydti  vidvdn  sampasyan  viivd  bhuvandni  gopdlj).  He  is  connected 
with  the  marriage  ceremonial  in  x.  85,  26  and  37,  being  besought  to 
take  the  bride's  hand  and  lead  her  away  (verse  26.  Pushd  tvd  ito  na- 
yatu  hastagrihya),  and  to  bless'  her  in  her  conjugal  relation  (37.  tarn 
Pushan  Sivatamdm  d  Irayasva) ; 267  and  in  another  place  he  is  prayed  to 
give  his  worshippers  their  share  of  damsels,  ix.  67,  1 0  (avitd  no  aj'ds- 
vah  Pushd  ydmani  ydmani  d  bhahhad  kanydsu  nah).  According  to  Pro- 
fessor Roth  (as  quoted  above)  Pushan  is  not  only  the  tutelary  god  of 
travellers,  but  also,  like  Savitri  and  Agni,  and  the  Greek  Hermes,  a 
i|rir^o7ro//.7r6<>,  who  conducts  departed  spirits  on  their  way  to  the  other 
world,  and  in  proof  of  this,  as  we  have  seen,  he  refers  to  E.  V.  x.  1 7,  3, 
5,  and  two  passages  from  the  A.V.  These  texts  are  as  follows  :  B..Y. 
x.  17,  3  ff.  (verses  which,  as  I  learn  from  Professor  M.  Miiller's 
article  on  the  funeral  ceremonies  of  the  Brahmans,268  p.  xi.  ff.,  are 
directed  to  be  recited  during  the  cremation  of  the  body) :  Pushd  tva 
itas  chydvayatu  pro,  vidvdn  anashtapasur  bhuvanasya  gopdh  \  sa  tva 
etebhyah  pari  dadat  pitribhyo  Agnir  devebhyah  suvidatriyebhyah  \ 

4.  Ayur  visvdyuh  pari  pdsati  tvd  Pushd  tvd  pdtu  prapatfie  purastdt  \ 
yatrdsate  sukrito  yatra  te  yayus   tatra   tvd   devah   Savitd  dadhdtu   \ 

5.  Pushd  imdh  dsdh  anu  veda  sarvdh  so  asmdn  abhayatamena  neshat  \ 
svastidah  dghrinih   sarvavlro   aprayuchhan  purah   etu   prajdnan    \     6. 
Prapathe  pathdm    ajanishta   Pushd  prapathe  divah   prapathe  prithi- 
vydh  \  ubhe  abhi  priyatame  sadasthe  d  cha  para  cha  charati  prdjanan  \ 
"  3.  May  Pushan  convey  thee  away  hence,  the  wise,  the  preserver 
of  the  world, 'who  loses  none  of  his  cattle;  may  he  deliver  thee  to 
these  fathers ;  and  may  Agni  (entrust  thee)  to  the  gracious  gods.     4. 
May  life,  full  of  vitality,  protect  thee:  May  Pushan  convey  thee  onward 
on  thy  distant  road ;  May  Savitri  place  thee  where  the  righteous  abide, 
in  the  place  whither  they  have  gone.     5.  Pushan  knows  all  these 
regions :  may  he  conduct  us  in  perfect  security ;  blessing,  glowing,  all- 
heroic,  may  he  go  before  us,  watchful  and  understanding.     6.  Pushan 
was  born  to  move  on  distant  paths,  on  the  far  road  of  heaven  and  the 
far  road  of  earth.    He  goes  to  and  returns  from  both  the  beloved  abodes." 

Z67  See  "Weber's  Ind.  Stud.  T.  186,  and  190. 

268  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  vol.  ix.,  at  the  end. 


174  HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  PUSHAN. 

A.V.  xvi.  9,  2.  Tad  Agnir  alia  tad  u  Somah  aha  Pushd  ma  dhdt 
suTcritasya  loke  \  "  Agni  says,  and  Soma  says,  '  may  Pushan  place  me 
in  the  world  of  righteousness.'  " 

A.V.  xviii.  2,  53.  Agnlshomd  pathikritd  syonam  develhyo  ratnam  da- 
dhathur  vi  lokam  \  upa  preshyatam  Pushanam  yo  vahdti  ajayanaih  pathi- 
Ihis  tattra  gachhatam  \  "  Agni  and  Soma,  makers  of  paths,  ye  have 
prepared  for  the  gods,  as  a  treasure^  a  beautiful  world ;  go  thither  and 
send  hither  to  us  Pushan,  who  shall  conduct  us  by  direct  roads."  269 

In  B.V.  i.  23, 13  f.  the  glowing  Pushan  is  prayed  to  bring  hither,  like 
a  lost  beast,  the  supporter  of  the  sky,  who  is  surrounded  by  brilliant 
grass ;  27°  and  is  said  to  have  found  the  king  so  designated,  who  had 
been  concealed  (a  Pushan  chitrabarhisham  dghrine  dharunam  divah 
dja  nashtam  yathd  pasum  \  14.  Pushd  rdjdnam  dghrinir  apagulhaih 
guhd  hitam  \  avindach  chitrabarhisham}. 

In  one  passage,  i.  23,  8,  the  other  gods  are  designated  by  the  appel- 
lation of  pusharati,  "bestowers  of  Pushan's  gifts,"  or  "having  Pushan 
as  their  chief  giver." 

(2)  Hymns  addressed  to  Pushan. 
i 

I  shall  now  translate  some  of  the  hymns  addressed  to  Pushan,  from 
which  it  will  appear  that  the  character  of  this  god  is  not  very  distinctly 
defined ;  and  that  it  is  difficult  to  declare  positively  what  province 
of  nature  or  of  physical  action  he  is  designed  to  represent,  as  is  at 
once  manifest  in  the  case  of  Dyaus,  PrithivT,  Agni,  Indra,  Parjanya, 
and  Surya : 

i.  42,  1.  Sam  Pushann  adhvanas  lira  vi  amho  vimucho  <.iapdt  \  sakshva 
deva  pra  nas  purah  \  It  Yo  nah  Pushann  agho  vriko  dussevah  ddidesati  \ 
apa  sma  tvam  patho  jahi  \  3.  Apa  tyam  paripanthinam  mushlvdnam 
huraschitam  \  duram  adhi  sruter  aja  \  4.  Tvam  tasya  dvaydvino  aghasam- 
sasya  kasya  chit  \  padd  'bhi  tishtha  tapushim  \  5.  A  tat  te  dasra  man- 
tumah  Pushann  avo  vrinlmahe  \  yena  pitrln  achodayah  \  6.  Adha  no 

269  Prof.  Eoth,  s.v.  takd  ajayanaih  as  =  anjoyanaih. 

270  Professor  Roth  understands  this  epithet  chitrabarhis  to  mean  "having  glittering 
straw,"  or  "  having  around  him  straw  in  the  form  of  jewels,"  and  applies  it  to  the 
moon.     Prof.  Benfey,  following  Sayana,  considers  that  Soma  is  the  deity  intended, 
and  renders  the  word  chitrabarhis  by  "  reposing  on  a  rich  covering."     The  reference 
seems  obscure. 


HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  PUSHAN.  175 

visvasaulhaga  hiranyavasimattama  \  dhandni  sushand  kndJii  \  7.  Ati 
nah  saschato  naya  sugd  nah  supathd  krinu  \  Pushann  iha  kratum  vidah  \ 
8.  Abhi  suyavasam  naya  na  navajvdro  adhvane  \  Pushann  .  .  .  |  9.  S'ag- 
dhi  purdhi  pra  yamsi  cha  sisiJii  prusi  udaram  \  Pushann  ...  |  10.  Na 
Pushanam  methumasi  suktair  abhi  grimmasi  \  vasuni  dasmam  Imahe  \ 
"  1.  Conduct  us,  Pushan,  over'our  road  ;  remove  distress,  son  of  the  de- 
liverer ; 8n  go  on  before  us.  2.  Smite  away  from  our  path  the  destruc- 
tive and  injurious  wolf  which  seeks  after  us.  3.  Drive  away  from  cm- 
path  the  waylayer,  the  thief,  the  robber.  4.  Tread  with  thy  foot  upon 
the  burning  weapon  of  that  deceitful  wretch,  whosoever  he  be.  5.  0 
wonder-working  and  wise  Pushan,  we  desire  that  help  of  thine  where- 
with thou  did  favour  our  fathers.  6.  0  god,  who  bringest  all  bless- 
ings, and  art  distinguished  by  thy  golden  spear,  make  wealth  easy  of 
acquisition.  7.  Convey  us  past  our  opponents;  make  our  paths  easy 
to  traverse ;  gain  strength  for  us  here.  8.  Lead  us  over  a  country  of 
rich  pastures ;  let  no  new  trouble  (beset  our)  path..  9.  Bestow,  satiate, 
grant,  stimulate  us,  fill  our  belly.  .10.  We  do  not  reproach  Pushan, 
we  praise  him  with  hymns ;  we  seek  riches  from  the  wonder-working 
god."  ™ 

The  next  hymn  alludes  at  the  beginning  to  Pushan  in*his  character 
of  tutelary  god  of  travellers  (comp.  vi.  49,  8  ;  x.  17,  3,  6 ;  x.  59,  7  ; 
x.  92,  13) ;  but  it  is  chiefly  occupied  with  the  poet's  aspirations  after 
a  liberal  patron,  and  with  attempts  to  inflame  the  god's  indignation 
against  the  niggards  with  whom  he  consi&ered  himself  to  be  surrounded. 

271  Vimucho  napat.     Professor  Benfey  follows  Sayana  in  loco  in  taking  this  to 
mean   "offspring  of  the   cloud"    (jala-vimoehaka-hetor  meghasya  puttra).      The 
Indian  commentator,  however,  assigns  another  sense  to  the  phrase  in  v.  55,  1,  where 
it  recurs,  and  where  he  explains  it  as  "  the  son  of  P»ajapati,  who  at  the  creation 
sends  forth  from  himself  all  creatures  "  (vimunchati  srishti-kale  svasakasat  sarvah 
prajah  visrijati  iti  vimuk  Prajapatih  \  tasya  puttra).     In  E.V.  viii.  4,  15  f.  Pushan 
is  called  vimochana,  the  "  delrVerer,"  which  Sayana  interprets  " deliverer  from  sin" 
papiid  vimochayitah).     Perhaps   vimucho  napat  means  the  same  thing.      Compare 
the  words  vi  te  munchantam  vimucho  hi  santi,  A.V.  vii.  112,  3;    and  s'avaso  napat, 
and  the  other  similar  phrases  quoted  above  in  p.  52.    In  preparing  my  version  of  this* 
hymn  I  have  had  the  aid  of  Benfey,  as  well  as  of  Sayana. 

272  Professor  Benfey  refers  here  to  a  preceding  note  of  his  own  on  E.V.  i.  41,  8,  the 
sense  of  which  is  as  follows :  "  I  believe  that  this  refers  to  a  practice  which  we  still  find 
among  barbarous,  and  even  among  partially  civilized,  races,  of  believing  that  they 
can  compel  their  gods,  by  insults,  and  by  blows  inflicted  on  their  images,  to  grant 
their  desires,  or  if  this  be  not  accomplished,  of  thinking  that  they  thereby  take  their 
revenge." 


176  HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  PUSH  AN. 

vi.  53,  1.  Vayam  u  tvd  pathas  pate  rathafh  na  vdjasdtaye  \  dhiye 
Pushann  ayujmahi  \  2.  Abhi  no  naryafh  vasu  viram  prayata-dakshinam  \ 
vdmam  grihapatim  naya  \  3.  Aditsantam  chid  dghrine  Pushan  ddndya 
chodaya  \  panes  chid  vi  mrada  manah  I  4.  Vi  patho  vdjasdtaye  chinuhi 
vi  mridho  jahi  sddhantdm  ugra  no  dhiyafy  \  5.  Pari  trindhi  panlndm 
drayd  hridayd  leave  \  athem  asmalhyam  rdndhaya  \  6.  Vi  Pushann  drayd 
tuda  paner  ichha  hridi  priyam  \  athem  asmabhyam  randhaya  \  7.  Arikha 
kikird  krinu  panlnam  hridayd  kave  \  athem  ...  |  8.  Yam  Pushan  brah- 
machodimm  dram  bibharshi  aghrine  \  tayd  samasya  hridayam  d  rikha 
kikird  krinu  \  9.  fate  ashtrd  goopasd  dghrine  pasusddhanl  \  tasyds  te 
sumnam  imahe  \  10.  Uta  no  goshanim  dhiyam  aSvasdm  vdjasdm  uta  \ 
nrwat  krinuhi  vitaye  \ 

"  1.  Pushan,  we  have  attached  thee,  lord  of  roads,  to  our  hymn,  as 
a  chariot  (is  yoked)  for  the  acquisition  of  food.  2.  Bring  to  us  wealth 
suitable  for  men,  and  a  manly  estimable  householder,  who  shall  bestow 
on  us  gifts.  3.  Impel  to  liberality,  o  glowing  Pushan,  even  the  man 
who  would  fain  bestow  nothing :  .soften  the  soul  even  of  the  niggard. 
4.  Open  up  paths  by  which  we  may  obtain  food ;  slay  our  enemies  ; 
let  our  designs  succeed,  o  glorious  god.  5.  0  wise  god,  pierce  the 
hearts  of  the  Niggards  with  an  awl;  and  then  make  them  subject  to  us. 
6.  Pierce  them  with  an  awl,  o  Pushan ;  seek  (for  us)  that  which  is 
dear  to  the  niggard's  heart ;  and  then  make  them  subject  to  us.  7. 
Penetrate  and  tear  the  hearts  of  the  niggards,  o  wise  god,  and  then 
subject  them  to  us.  8.  "With  that  prayer-stimulating  goad  which  thou 
carriest,  glowing  Pushan,  penetrate  and  tear  the  heart  of  every  such 
man.  9.  From  that  goad  of  thine,  which  is  furnished  with  leathern 
thongs,273  and  guides  cattle,  we  seek  for  prosperity.  10.  Grant  that 
our  hymn  may  produce*  for  us  cattle,  horses,  food,  for  our  enjoyment 
abundantly." 

vi.  54,  1.  Sam  Pushan  vidushd  naya  yo  anjasd  'nusdsati  \  yah  eva 
idam  iti  bravat  \  2.  Sam  u  Pushnd  gamemahi  yo  grihdn  alhisdsati  \  ime 
•  eva  iti  cha  bravat  \  3.  Pushnas  chakram  na  rishyati  na  Jcoso  ava  padyate  \ 
no  asya  vyathate  pavih  ,|  4.  Yo  asmai  havishd  'vidhat  na  tarn  Pushd  'pi 
mrishyate  \  prathamo  vindate  vasu  \  5.  Pushd  gdh  anu  etu  nah  Pushd 
rakshatu  arvatah  \  Pushd  vajaih  sanotu  nah  \  6.  Pushann  anu  pra  gdh 

273  See  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.  goopasa. 


HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  PUSHAN.  177 

ihi  yajamdnasya  sunvatah  \  asmdkam  stuvatdm  uta  \  7.  Mdkir  nesat 
mdkim  rishat  mdkim  sam  sari  kevate  \  atha  arishtdbhir  a  gaJti  \  8. 
S'rinvantam  Pushanam  vayam  iryam  anashta-vedasam  \  Isdnaih  rdyah 
imahe  \  9.  Pushan  tava  vrate  vayam  na  rishyema  kadachana  \  stotdras  te 
iha  smasi  \  10.  Part  Pushd  parastdd  hastam  dadhdtu  dakshinam  \  punar 
no  nashtam  djdtu  \ 

11 1.  May  we,  o  Pushan,  meet  with  a  wise  man  who  shall  straightway 
direct  us,  and  say  'so  it  is.'274  2.  May  we  meet  with  Pushan,275  who 
shall  point  out  a  house,  and  shall  say  '  it  is  this.'  3.  Pushan' s  wheel  is 
not  shattered,  nor  does  its  box  fall,  nor  is  its  rim  broken.  4.  Pushan  is 
not  hostile  to  the  man  who  offers  him  an  oblation ;  that  man  is  the  first  to 
obtain  wealth.  5.  May  Pushan  follow  our  kine;  may  he  protect  our 
horses  ;  may  he  give  us  food.  6.  Pushan,  follow  the  kine  of  the  wor- 
shipper who  offers  soma-libations,  and  of  us  when  we  do  the  same.  7. 
Let  nothing  be  lost,  or  injured,  or  fall  into  a  pit ;  but  come  to  us  with 
(the  cows)  all  safe.  8.  We  seek  after  Pushan  who  hears  us,  the  alert, 
who  never  loses  property,  who  is  lord!  of  wealth.  9.  Pushan,  may  we, 
through  thy  appointment,  never  fall  into  calamity;  we  are  here,  thy 
worshippers.  10.  May  Pushan  stretch  out  his  right  hand  jar  and  wide, 
and  drive  hither  our  lost  property." 

vi.  55,  1 .  Ehi  vdm  vimucho  no/pad  dghrine  sam  sachdvahai  \  rathir 
ritasya  no  bhava  \  2.  Rathltamam  kaparddinam  Isdnam  rddhaso  mahah  \ 
rayah  sakhdyam  imahe  \  3.  Rdyo  dhdrd  'si  dgJirine  vasoh  rdsir  ajdsva  \ 
dJiivato  dhlvato  sakJia  \  4.  Pushanam  nu  ajdsvam  upa  stoshdma  vdjinam  \ 
svasur  yo  jdrah  uchyate  \  5.  Matur  didhishum  abravam  svasur  jdrah 
srinotu  nah  \  bhrdtd  Indrasya  sakJid  mama  \  6.  A  ajdsah  Pushanam  rathe 
nisrimbhds  te  janasriyam  \  devam  vahantu  bibhrpjah  \ 

"1.  Come  hither,  glowing  god,  the  deliverer,  may  we  meet;  be  the 
charioteer  of  our  rite.  2.  We  seek  riches  from  thee,  the  most  skilful 
of  charioteers,  the  god  with  braided  hair,  the  lord  of  great  wealth,  and 
our  friend.  3.  Thou  art  a  stream  of  opulence,  a  heap  of  riches,  o  glow- 
ing deity,  drawn  by  goats,  and  the  friend  of  every  devout  contemplator. 

» 

274  Sayana  says  that  this  verse  is  to  he  muttered  hya  man  seeking  for  lost  property 
(nashta-dhanam  anvichhata  etaj  japyam),  and  refers  to  Grihya  Sutras,  iii.  9.     He 
understands  the  wise  man  of  one  who  shall  point  out  the  mode  of  recovering  such 
property. 

275  See  Prof.  Wilson's  note  in  loco.     Sayana  explains :  "  May  we  by  [the  favour 
of]  Pushan  meet  with  a  man  who  shall  shew  us  the  house  in  which  our  lost  cattle  are.' 

I?, 


178  HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  PUSHAN. 

4.  Let  us  praise  Pushan,  the  god  drawn  by  goats,  the  giver  of  food, 
who  is  called  the  lover  of  his  sister.276  5.  I  address  the  husband  of  his 
mother ; 277  may  he  hear  us,  the  lover  of  his  sister,  the  brother  of  Indra, 
and  my  friend.  6.  May  the  surefooted278  goats,  supporting  Pushan,  the 
god  who  visits  mankind,  bring  him.  hither  upon  his  chariot." 

vi.  56,  1.  Yah  enam  ddidesati  "karambhdd"  iti  Pushanam  \  na  tena 
devah  ddise  \  2.  Uta  gha  sa  rathltar^ah  sakhyd  satpatir  yujd  \  Indro 
vritrdni  jighnate  \  3  (Nir.  ii.  6).  Uta  adah  parushe  gavi  suras  chakram 
hiranyayam  \  ni  airayad  rathltamah  \  4.  Yad  adya  tvd  purushtuta  bra- 
vama  dasra  mantwnah  \  tat  su  no  manma  sddhaya  \  5.  Imam  cha  no 

_  • 

gaveshanam  sdtaye  slshadho  ganam  \  drat  Pushann  asi  srutah  \  6.  A  te 
svastim  Imahe  dreaghdm  updvasum  \  adya  cha  sarvatdtaye  svas  cha  sarva- 
tdtaye  \ 

"  1.  By  him  who  designates  Pushan  by  saying  'this  is  the  eater  of 
meal  and  butter,'  the  god  cannot  be  described.  2.  Indra  too,  the  lord 
of  the  good,  the  most  skilful  of  charioteers,  seeks  to  slay  his  enemies  in 
company  with  his  friend.  3.  And  this  most  skilful  charioteer  drove 
that  golden  wheel  of  the  sun  through  the  speckled  cloud.279  4.  Accom- 
plish for  us,  o  wonder-working  and  wise  deity,  that  desire  which  we 
shall  address  to  thee  to-day.  5.  And  direct  this  exploring  band  of  ours 
to  the  attainment  of  their  object :  for,  Pushan,  thou  are  renowned  afar. 
6.  We  seek  thy  blessing,  which  drives  away  calamity,  and  brings 
opulence  near,  for  full  prosperity  to-day,  and  for  full  prosperity  to- 
morrow." 

vi.  57,  1.  Indra  nu  Pushand  28°  vayam  sakhydya  svastaye  huvema  vdja- 
sdtaye  \  2.  Scmam  anyah  updsadat pdtave  chamvoh  sutam  \  karambham2*1 

276  Ushas,  according  to  Sa/ana;  and  Surya,  according  to  Prof.  Roth.    See  the  last 
verse  of  vi.  58,  below. 

277  Sayana  renders  matuh  by  nirmatryah  ratreh,  "the  constructress,  Night." 

278  Roth,  s.v.  says  nisrimbha  perhaps  means  "  sicher  auftretend ;  "  Wilson  renders 
"harnessed;  "  Sayana  nisrathya  sambadhya  hartarah.     All  seems  guess  work. 

279  Prof.  Roth  translates  this  verse  as  follows  in  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta, 
*p.  19  :  "  Er  hat  dort  durch  den  krausen  Wolkenzug  der  Sonne  goldenes  Rad  hin- 

durchgelenkt,  der  trefliche  Ifuhrmann  (Puschan).  "  He  has  guided  the  golden  wheel 
of  the  sun  through  the  curled  train  of  clouds,  the  excellent  driver  (Pushan)."  In  his 
Lexicon  he  renders  the  word  parusha  by  "  variegated,"  etc. 

280  Compare  iii.  57,  2,  and  vi.  17,  11,  where  Pushan  and  Vishnu  are  said  to  have 
purified  three  bowls  of  Soma  for  Indra  (Pusha  Vishnus  trlnisa,  raiiisi  dhavan  vritra- 
hanam  madiram  ams'um  asmai). 

28!  iii.  52  7. 


HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  PUSHAN.  179 

anyah  ichhati  \  3.  Ajdh  anyasya  vahnayo  harl  anyasya  sambhritd  \ 
tdbhydm  vrittrdni  jighnate  \  4.  Yad  Indro  anayad  rito  mahlr  apo  vri- 
shantamah  \  tatra  Pushd  'bhavat  sachd  \  5.  Tdm  Pushnah  mmatim 
vaydm  vrikshasya  pro,  vaydm  iva  \  Indrasya  cha  a  rabhdmahe  \  6.  Ut 
Pushanam  yuvdmah#  abhlsun  iva  sdrathih  \  mahyai  Indram  svastaye  \ 

"  1.  Let  us  invoke  Indra  and  Pushan  to  be  our  friends,  to  bless  us 
and  to  grant  us  food.  2.  Of  the$e  two  gods,  the  one  (Indra)  comes  to 
drink  the  soma  poured  out  from  the  ladles,  and  the  other  (Pushan) 
desires  meal  and  butter.  3.  Goats  convey  the  one,  and  two  harnessed 
brown  horses  the  other  :  borne  by  them  he  seeks  to  slay  his  enemies. 
4.  When  the  most  vigorous  Indra  brought  the  great  flowing  waters, 
Pushan  was  there  with  him.  5.  We  lay  hold  of  that  goodwill  of 
Pushan  and  of  Indra,  as  we  seize  the  branch  of  a  tree.  6.  We  stir  up 
Pushan  and  Indra  to  bring  us  great  prosperity,  as  a  charioteer  shakes 
his  reins." 

vi.  58,  1  (=  S.V.  i.  75).  S'ukram  te  any  ad  yajatam  te  any  ad  vishurupe 
ahanl  dyaur  ivd&i  \  visvdh  hi  mdydk  avasi  svadhdvo  bhadrd  te  Pushann 
iha  rdtir  astu  \  2.  Ajdsvah  pasupuh  vajapastyo  dhiyamjinvo  bhuvane 
visve  arpitah  \  ashtrdm  Pushd  sithirdm  udvarlvrijat  sanchakshano  bhu- 
vana  devah  lyate  \  3.  Yds  te  Pushan  ndvo  antah  samudre  hiranyaylr 
antarikshe  charanti  \  talhir  ydsi  dutyaih  suryasya  kdmena  Icrita 2S2  sravah 
ichhamdnah  \  4.  Pushd  subandhur  divah  d  prithivydh  ilaspatir  maghava 
dasmavarchdh  \  yam  devdso  adaduh  Surydyai  kdmena  kritam  tavasaili 
svancham  \ 

"  1.  One  of  thine  (appearances)  is  bright,  the  other  is  venerable ;  thy 
two  periods  are  diverse ;  thou  art  like  Dyaus :  for,  o  p elf-dependent 
god,  thou  exercisest  all  wondrous  powers.  Q,  Pushan,  may  thy  gifts 
be  beneficent.  2.  Borne  by  goats,  guardian  of  cattle,  lord  of  a  house 
overflowing  with  plenty,  an  inspirer  of  the  soul,  abiding  within  the 
whole  creation,  Pushan  has  grasped  his  relaxed  goad ;  the  god  moves 
onward  beholding  all  creatures.  3.  With  those  golden  ships  of  thine, 
which  sail  across  the  aerial  ocean,  thou  actest  as  the  messenger  of  the 
Sun,  desiring  food,  o  god,  subdued  by  love.  *  4.  Pushan  is  the  close 
associate  of  [or  the  bond  uniting  ?]  heaven  and  earth,  the  lord  of 
nourishment,  the  magnificent,  of  wondrous  lustre.  Him,  vigorous  and 
rapid,  subdued  by  love,  the  gods  gave  to  Surya." 

282  See  nest  verse,  and  vi.  49,  8,  where  the  same  phrase  occurs. 


180  HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  PUSHAN. 

In  ii.  40,  Soma  and  Pushan  are  celebrated  conjointly  as  the  gene- 
rators of  wealth,  of  heaven  and  earth,  and  the  born  preservers  of  the 
world,  and  as  made  by  the  gods  the  centre-point  of  immortality  (Soma- 
pushand  janand  raylndm  janand  divo  janand  prithivydh  \  jdtau  visvasya 
bhuvanasya  ffopau  devdh  akrinvann  amritasya  ndbhim,  verse  1) ;  they  hide 
the  hated  darkness  (imau  tamdmsi  guhatdm  ajushthd,  ibid.  2);  they  impel 
the  chariot  with  seven  wheels  which  traverses  the  ?ir,  but  is  not  all- 
pervading,  which  revolves  in  all  directions,  is  yoked  by  the  mind,  and 
shines  with  seven  rays  (Somdpushand  rajaso  vimdnam  saptachakram 
ratham  avisvaminvam  \  vishuvritam  manasd  yujyamdnam  tarn  jinvatho 
vrishand  pancharasmim,  verse  3) ;  the  one  of  them  (Pushan)  is  said  to 
make  his  abode  in  the  heaven,  the  other  (Soma)  on  the  earth  and  in  the 
air  (divi  anyo  sadanam  chakre  uchchd  prithivydm  anyo  adJii  antarikshe, 
verse  4) ;  the  one  (Soma)  to  have  generated  all  creatures,  and  the  other 
(Pushan)  to  move  onward  beholding  the  universe  (visvd ni  anyo  bhuvand 
jajdna  visvam  anyo  abhichakshdnah  eti,  verse  5). 

In  the  concluding  verse  of  R.V.  1.  138,  the  poet  tells  Pushan  that  he 
seeks  with  gentle  hymns  to  attract  his  attention,  and  that  he  does  not 
treat  the  god  with  haughtiness  or  contempt,  or  reject  his  friendship  (o  su 
tvd  vavritlmahi  stomebhir  dasma  sddhubhih  \  na  hi  tvd  Pushann  atimanye 
dghrine  na  te  sakhyam  apahnuve). 

In  x.  26,  he  is  said  to  be  the  fulfiller  of  prayers,  and  the  stimulator 
of  sages  (matlnam  cha  sddhanam  mprdndm  cha  ddhavam,  verse  4) ;  to  be 
the  promoter233  of  sacrifices,  to  impel  the  horses  of  chariots,  to  be  a 
rishi  friendly  to  men,  and  a  protecting  friend  of  the  wise  man  (pratyar- 
dhir  yajndndip-  asvahayo  rathdndm  \  rishih  sa  yo  manurhito  mprasya 
yavayat-sakhah,  verse  5),c  the  unshaken  friend,  born  of  old,  of  every 
suppliant  (visvasya  arthinah  sakhd  sanojdh  anapachyutaK). 

283  prof.  Roth,  s.v.  thinks  the  word  pratyardhi,  which  occurs  also  in  x.  1,  5,  may 
mean  "  entitled  to  the  half  of,"  "  having  an  equal  share  in."  Compare  abhy-ardha- 
yajvan  above,  p.  172,  and  note. 


181 


SECTION    XIII. 

USHAS. 

This  goddess,  who  corresponds  to  the  'Heos  (-^Eolic  'Avcos)  of  the 
Greeks,  and  to  the  Aurora  of  the  Latins,  is  a  favourite  object  of  cele- 
bration with  the  poets  of  the  Eig-veda,  and  the  hymns  addressed  to 
her  are  among  the  most  beautiful — if  not  the  most  beautiful — in  the 
entire  collection.  The  following  are  those  which  are  specially  dedi- 
cated to  her  honour,  viz.,  i.  48  ;j.  49;  i.  92;  i.  113;  i.  123;  i.  124; 
iii.  61 ;  iv.  51  ;  iv.  52;  v.  79;  v.  80;  vi.  64  ;  vi.  65  ;  vii.  75-81  ; 
x.  172.  She  is  also  invoked  or  referred  to  in  numerous  detached  verses. 

To  give  an  idea  of  the  manner  in*  which  TJshas  is  described  and  cele- 
brated, I  shall  quote  the  larger  portion  of  three  hymns,  of  which  the 
second  and  third  are  more  remarkable  than  the  first  (introducing  here 
and  there  some  parallel  passages  from  other  quarters*),  and  I  shall 
afterwards  give  a  summary  of  the  principal  attributes  and  functions 
which  are  attributed  to  her. 

(1)  Three  hymns  to  Ushas. 

i.  48,  1.  Saha  vdmena  nah  Usho  vi  uchha  duhitar  Divah  \  saha  dyum- 
nena  Irihatd  vibhdvari  ray  a  devi  ddsvatl  \  2.  Asvavatir  gomatir  visva- 
suvido  bhuri  chyavanta  vastave  \  udlraya  prati  ma  sunritdh  ushas  choda 
rddho  maghondm  \  3.  Uvdsa  ushdh  uchhdt  cha  nu  devl  jlrd  rathdndm  \ 
ye  asydh  dcharaneshu  dadhrire  samudre  na  iravasyavah  \  4.  Usho  ye  te 
ydmeshu  yunjate  mano  ddndya  surayah  \  attrdha  tat  kanvah  eshdm  kan- 
vatamo  nama  grinuti  nrindm  \  5.  A  gha  yosheva  sunarl  ushdh  ydti  pra- 
bhunjatl  \jarayantl  vnj'anam  padvad  lyate  ut  patayati  pakshinah  \  6.  Y% 
yd  srijati  samanam  vi  arthinah  padafh  na  vet)  odatl  \  vayo  nakis  te  pap- 
tivdmsah  dsate  vyushtau  vdjinlvati  \  [i.  124,  12  =  vi.  64,  4.  Vt  te  vayas 
chid  vasater  apaptan  naras  cha  ye  pitubhdjo  vyushtau  \  see  also  i.  48,  9]. 
i.  48,  7.  JEsha  ayukta  pardvatah  suryasyodayandd  adhi  \  satam  rathebhih 
subhagd  ushdh  iyam  vi  ydti  abhi  mdnushdn  \  8.  Visvam  asydh  nandma 


182  HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  USHAS. 

chakshase  jagaj  jyotish  krinoti  sunarl  \  apa  dvesho  maghonl  duhitd  divah 
ushdh  uchhad  apa  sridhafy  [  9.  Ushah  d  bhdhi  bhdnunft  chandrena  duhitar 
divah  |  dvahanti  bhuri  asmalhyafh  saubhagam  vyuchhantl  divishtishu  \ 
10.  Visvasya  hi  jlvanam  prdnanam  tve  vi  yad  uchhasi  sunari  \  sd  no 
rathena  Irihatd  vibhdvari  Srudhi  chitramaghe  havam  \  [i.  49,  1.  Usho 
bhadrebhir  d  gahi  diva§  chid  rochandd  adhi  \  vahantu  arunapsavah  upa 
tvd  somino  griham  \  2.  SupeSasam  sukkam  ratham  yam  adhyasthdh  ushas 
tvam  |  tena  susravasam  janam  prdva  adya  duhitar  divah  \  vi.  65,  2.  Vi 
tad  yayur  arunayugbhir  asvai£  chitrafft,  bhdnti  ushasas  chandrarathdh  \ 
vii.  75,  6.  Prati  dyutandm  arushdso  aivds  chitrdh  adrisrann  ushasam 
vahantah  \  ydti  subhrd  visvapisd  rathena  |].  i.  48,  12.  Visvdn  devdn  a 
vaha  somapltaye  antarikshdd  ushas  tvam  \ 

"1.  Dawn  on  us  with  prosperity,  o  TJshas,  daughter  of  the  sky, 
with  great  glory,  o  luminous  and  bountiful  goddess,  with  riches.  2. 
(These  dawns)  bringing  horses  and  cows,  and  all-bestowing,  have 
oftentimes  hastened  to  shine.284  Awake  for  me  joyful  voices  (or  hymns)285 
o  Ushas,  and  send  us  the  wealth 'of  the  magnificent.  3.  Ushas  has 
dawned  (before) ;  let  her  now  dawn  (again),  the  goddess  who  impels 

our  chariots,  which  at  her  arrivals  are  borne  forward,  like  wealth- 
7  < 

seekers  in  the  ocean.236  4.  Kanva,  the  chief  of  his  race,  here  celebrates 
the  name  of  those  wise  men  who  at  thy  approaches,  o  Ushas,  direct 
their  thoughts  to  liberality.  5.  Like  an  active  woman,  Ushas  advances 
cherishing887  (all  things) ;  she  hastens  on  arousing  footed  creatures,288  and 

281  The  word  vastave  is  so  rendered  by  Benfey.  See  his  translation,  in  loco,  and 
his  Glossary  to  the  Sama-veda,  s.vv.  ush,  and  vas,  and  vastu  ;  and  Roth  s.v.  ush.  2. 

236  Benfey  renders  sunritah  here  hy  "  Herrlichkeiten,"  '  glorious  things  ; '  but  in 
i.  92,  7,  and  i.  113,  12,  he  translates  the  same  word  by  "beautiful  hymns."  A  note 
on  it  by  Professor  Aufrecht  wEl  be  found  further  on. 

286  The  sense  of  dadhrire  in  this  clause  is  not  very  clear.     Prof.  Wilson  renders 
after  Sayana :  "  chariots,  which  are  harnessed  at  her  coming ;    as  those  who  are 
desirous  of  wealth  send  ships  to  sea."     Prof.  Benfey  explains  :  "  carts,  which  roll  at 
her  approach,  like  wealth-seekers  in  the  sea  ; "  i.e.,  as  he  adds  in  a  note  :  "  The 
waggons  full  of  wealth  are  driven  hither  by  the  dawn ;  they  are  so  full  as  to  reel  and 
sWing  about."     It  is  difficult  to  see  how  this  sense  can  be  extracted  from  the  words. 

287  Sayana  makes  prabhunjrti  —  prakarshena,  sarvam  palayanil.     Benfey  renders 
it  "ruling,"  andJRoth  s.v.  "rendering  service." 

ass  Professors  Benfey  and  Bollensen  (Orient  und  Occident,  ii.  463)  both  explain 
jarayanti  here  in  the  sense  of  "setting  in  motion,"  or  "  arousing,"  the  former  deriv. 
ing  it  from  the  root  jar,  "to  hasten,"  and  the  latter  from  jar  =  gar,  "to  wake." — 
See  Bollensen's  remarks  in  pp.  463-465.  In  other  places,  as  we  shall  see,  and  as  he 
allows,  it  must  be  rendered  "  making  old." 


HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  USHAS.  183 

makes  the  birds  fly  aloft.  6.  She  sends  forth  both  the  active  and  the 
beggars  (to  their  oceupation) ;  lively,  she  loves  not  to  stand  still ;  the 
flying  birds  no  longer  rest  after  thy  dawning,  o  bringer  of  food.289 
[i  124,  12.  The  birds  fly  up  from  their  nests,  and  men  seeking  food, 
leave  their  homes.]  7.  She  has  yoked  (her  horses)  from  the  remote 
rising-place  of  the  sun ;  this  auspicious  Ushas  advances  towards  men 
with  a  hundred  chariots.  8.  Everything  that  moves  bows  down  before 
her  glance  ;  the  active  goddess  creates  light ;  by  her  appearance  the 
magnificent  daughter  of  the  sky  drives  away  our  haters ;  Ushas  has 
repelled  our  enemies.  9.  Shine  forth,  Ushas,  daughter  of  the  sky  with 
brilliant  radiance,  bringing  to  us  abundant  prosperity,  dawning  upon 
our  devotions.  10.  In  thee,  when  thou  dawnest,  o  lively  goddess,  is  the 
life  and  the  breath  of  all  creatures ;  resplendent  on  thy  massive  car  hear 
our  invocation,  [i.  49,  1.  Come,  Ushas,  even  from  the  light  of  the  sky, 
by  auspicious  (paths) ;  let  the  ruddy  (horses)  bring  thee  to  the  house 
of  the  offerer  of  soma.  2.  Protect  to-day,  o  Ushas,  daughter  of  the 
sky,  the  prosperous  man  with  that,  beautifully  formed  and  pleasant 
chariot  on  which  thou  standest.  vi.  65,  2.  They  went  apart  with 
their  ruddy-yoked  horses;  the  Dawns  on  the  luminous  cars  shine 
brilliantly,  vii.  75,  6.  The  bright  and  ruddy  steeds'  were  beheld 
bearing  onward  the  shining  Ushas.  The  lustrous  goddess  moves  in  a 
chariot  beautified  with  all  sorts  of  ornaments],  i.  48,  12.  Ushas, 
bring  all  the  gods  to  drink  our  soraa." 

i.  92,  1  (  =  S.V.  ii.  1105).  Etah  u  tydh  Ushasah  ketum  akrata  purve 
'rdhe  rajaso 2DO  bhdnum  anjale  \  nishkrinvdndh  dyudhamva  dhrishnavah 
prati  ffdvo  arushir  yanti  mdtarah  \  2(=  S.Y.  ii.  1106).  Ud  apaptann 
arundh  bhdnavo  vrithd  svdyujo  arushir  gdh  ayukshata  \  akrann  ushdso 
vayundni  purvathd  rusantam  bhdnum  arushir  asisrayuh  \  3  (  =  S.V.  ii. 
1107).  Arclianti  ndrlr  apaso  na  vishtilhih  samunena  yojanena  a  para- 
vatah  |  isham  vahantih  sukrite  suddnave  visvd  id  aha  yajamdndya  sun- 
vate  |  4.  Adhi  pesdm&i  vapate  nritur  iva  apornute  vakshah  usreva  bar- 
j'aham  \  jyotir  visvasmai  bhuvandya  krinvatl  gdvo  na  vrajam  vi  ushdJi 

289  vajiriivati  is  explained  by  Yaska,  Nir.  xi.  26,  an3  xii.  6,  by  annavatl ;  and  by 
Sayana  on  R.V.  i.  3,  10,  by  annavat-kriyavatt,  "  mistress  of  rites  possessing  food." 
These  senses  of  the  word  seem  uncertain. 

290  Compare  i.  124,  61  :  purve  'rdhe  rajaso   aptyasya  gavam  janitrt  akrita  pra 
ketum  |  "  The  mother  of  the  cows  has  displayed  her  signal  in  the  eastern  part  of  the 
watery  firmament." 


184  HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  USHAS. 

dvar  tamah  \  [i.  123,  10.  Kanyeva  tanvd  sdsaddnd  eshi  devi  devam 
iyakshamdnam  \  saihsmayamdnd  yuvatih  purastdd  dviv  vakshdmsi  krinusfo 
vibhdtl  |  11.  Susankdsd  mdtrimrishteva  yoshd  avis  tanvam  krinushe 
drise  kam  \  i.  124,  4  (=Nirukta,  iv.  16).  Upo  adarsi  sundhyuvo  na 
vaksho  nodhdh  ivdvir  akrita  priydni  \  admasad  na  sasato  bodhayantl 
sasvaitamd  dgdt  punar  eyushlndm  \  1  (  =  Nir.  iii.  5).  Abhrdtd  iva  pum- 
sah  eti  pratlchl  garttdrug  iva  sanaye  dhandndm 291  |  jdyeva  patye  usatl 
suvdsdh  ushdh  hasreva  ni  rinlte  apsah  \  v.  80,  5.  Eshd  subhrd  na  tanvo 
viddna  urdhveva  sndtl  drisaye  no  asthdt  \  vi.  64,  2.  Avir  vakshah  krinushe 
iumbhamdnd  devi  rochamdnd  mahobhih  \  compare  v.  80,  46].  i.  92,  5. 
Prati  archih  rusad  asydh  adarsi  vi  tishthate  bddhate  krishnam  abhvam 292 1 
svaruih  na  peso  vidatheshu  anjan  chitram  divo  duhitd  bhdmim  asret  \ 
6.  Atdrishma  tamasas  pdram  asya  ushdh  uchhantl  vayund  Icrinoti  \  sriye 
chhando  na  smayate  vilhdtl  supratlkd  saumanasdya  ajlgah  \  7.  Bhdsvati 
netrl  sunritdndih  divah  stave  duJiitd  Gotamelhih  \  prajdvato  nrivato  asva- 
ludhydn  usho  goagrdn  upa  mdsi  vdjdn  \  8.  Ushas  tarn  asydm  yasasam 
suvlrdm  ddsapravargam  rayim  asvnbudhyam  \  sudamsasd  sravasd  yd  vi 
bhdsi  vdjaprasutd  subhage  Irihantam  \  9.  Visvdni  devi  bhuvand  'bhicha- 
kshy a  pratlchi  chakshur  urviyd  vibhdti  \  visvamjlvam  charase  bodhayantl 
visvasya  vdcha?,/i  avidat  mandyoh  \  10.  Punah  punar  jdyamdnd  293  purdnl 
samdnam  varnam  abhi  sumbhamdnd  \  svaghnlva  kritnur  vijah  dmindnd 
martasya  devi  jar  ay  anil  dyuh  \  11.  Vyurnatl  divo  antdn  abodhi  upa  sva- 
sdram  sanutar  yuyoti  \  praminatl  manushyd  yugdni  yoshd  jdrasya  cha- 
kshasd  vilhdti  \  [i.  115,  2.  Suryo  devlm  Ushasham  rochamdndm  maryo 
na  yoshdm  abhi  eti  paschdt  \  vii.  75,  4.  Divo  duhitd  Ihuvanasya  patnl  \ 
5.  Vdjlnlvatl  suryasya  yoshd'].  i.  92,  12.  Pasun  na  chitrd  sulhagd 
prathdnd  sindhur  na  kshodah  urviyd  vi  asvait  \,aminatl  daivydni  vratdni 
suryasya  cheti  rasmibhir  drisdnd  \  13.  Ushas  tat  chitram  dbhara,  asma- 
bhyam  vdjinlvati  \  yena  tokam  cha  tanayaih  cha  dhdmahe  \  14.  Usho  adyeha 
gomati  asvdvati  vibhdvari  \  revad  asme  vi  uchha  sunritdvati  \  15.  Yukshva 
hi  vdjinlvati  asvdn  adya  arundn  ushah  \  atha  no  visvd  saubhagdni  dvaha  \ 

291  Compare  R.V.  ix.  96,  20. 

362  Compare  iv.  51,  9  :  Gujiimtlh  abhvam  asitam  rusadbhir  sukras  tanubhih  sucha- 
yah  \  "The  bright  lucid  Dawns  concealing  the  black  abyss  with  their  radiant  bodies." 

293  Compare  i.  123,  2 :  Uchcha  vi  akhyad  yuvatih  punarbhuh  \  "  The  youthful 
(goddess)  born  anew,  bas  shone  forth  on  high."  iii.  61,  1  :  Puram  devi  ywvatih 
purandhir  anu  vratam  charasi  \  "  Thou,  o  goddess,  old,  (and  yet)  young,  wise, 
movest  at  thy  will." 


HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  USHAS.  185 

"1.  These  Dawns  have  become  conspicuous;  they  display  their 
lustre  in  the  eastetn  hemisphere;  like  bold  warriors  drawing  forth 
their  weapons,  the  ruddy  mother-cows  advance.  2.  The  rosy  beams 
have  flashed  up  spontaneously  ;  they  have  yoked  the  self-yoked  ruddy 
cows.  The  Dawns,  as  of  old,  have  brought  Us  consciousness ;  the  red 
cows  have  assumed  a  brilliant  lustre.  3.  Like  women  active  in  their 
occupations,  they  sljine  from  afar,along  a  common  track,  bringing  sus- 
tenance to  the  pious  and  liberal  worshipper,  and  all  things  to  the  man 
who  offers  libations  of  soma.  4.  TJshas,  like  a  dancer,  puts  on  her  gay 
attire ;  she  displays  her  bosom  as  a  cow  its  udder :  creating  light  for 
all  the  world,  she  has  dissipated  the  darkness,  as  cattle  (abandon)  their 
stall.294  [i.  123,  10.  Like  a  maid  triumphing295  in  her  (beautiful) form, 
thou,  goddess,  advancest  to  meet  the  god  who  seeks  after  thee  (the  sun) ; 
smiling,  youthful,  and  resplendent,  thou  unveilest  thy  bosom  in  front. 
11.  Like  a  fair  girl  adorned  by  her  mother,  thou  displayest  thy  body  to 
the  beholder,  i.  124,  4.  She  has  been  beheld  like  the  bosom  of  a  bright 
maiden.296  Like.  Nodhas,397  she  has  revealed  things  that  we  love. 
Awaking  the  sleepers  like  an  inmate  of  the  house,  she  has  come,  the 
most  perpetual  of  all  the  females  who  have  returned.  7.  As  a  woman 
who  has  no  brother  appears  in  presence  of  (another)  man,  as  a  man 
mounted  on  a  chariot  goes  forth  in  pursuit  of  wealth,  as  a  loving  wife 
shews  herself  to  her  husband,  so  does  Ushas,  as  it  were,  smiling, 
reveal  her  form.298  v.  80,  5.  She  displays  her  person  like  a  fair 


294  "As  cattle  of  their  own  accord  go  quickly  to  their  own  cowpen" — Sayana. 
"  As  cows  open  their  stall " — Benfey.     See  his  note  in  loco. 

295  The  word'so  rendered  is  s'asadana. — Sayaua  explains  it  "  becoYning  manifest." 
The  word,  however,  as  appears  from  the  context,  as  weV  as  other  passages  in  which 
it  occurs,  i.   33,13;  i.  116,2;  i.  124,6;   i.   141,9;  vii.   98,4;  vii.   104,24;  x. 
120,  5,  has  evidently  the  sense  assigned  to  it  by  Roth,  in  Illust.  of  Nir.  p.  83,  where 
he  renders  it  by  "  triumphing,"  in  i.  33,  13,  and  x.  120,  5.    In  the  passage  before  us 
he  makes  it  mean  "distinguished  by  beauty."     Benfey  explains  it  by  "triumphing" 
in  i.  33,  13,  and  i.  116,  2.     His  translation  of  the  R.V.  does  not  extend  beyond  the 
118th  hymn  of  the  1st  Mandala.  • 

296  Sayana,  following  Yaska,  explains  s'undhyuvo  na  vakshah,  as  the  "  rays  on  the 
breast  of  the  sun,"  or  as  "  the  breast  of  a  particular  white  water  bird."   Roth,  Illust. 
of  Nir.  p.  44,  translates  "  as  the  breast  of  a  pure  virgin." 

297  This  is  the  name  of  a  Rishi.     Roth  thinks  it  may  be  an  appellative  here. 
Miiller,  Trans,  of  R.V.  i.  p.  107,  thinks  it  may  have  the  general  meaning  of  poet. 

298  Roth,  Illust.  of  Nir.  p.  25,  says  "  The  sense  of  the  verse  appears  to  be  :  "  as  a 
brotherless  maiden,  who  after  her  father's  death  has  no  longer  any  home,  turns  more 


186  HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  USHAS. 

woman,  like  one  rising  out  of  the  water  in  which  she  has  been  hathing. 
vi.  64,  2.  Thou,  full  of  brightness,  displayest  thy  bosom,  o  goddess,  shin- 
ing in  thy  glory],  i  92,  5.  Her  bright  ray  has  been  perceived;  it  ex- 
tends and  pierces  the  black  abyss.  The  daughter  of  the  Sky  has  assumed 
a  brilliant  glow,  like  the  decorations  of  the  sacrificial  post  on  festivals. 
6.  "We  have  crossed  over  this  darkness ;  Ushas  dawning  restores  con- 
sciousness; radiant,  she  smiles  like  a.  flatterer  seeking  his  own  advan- 
tage ;  fair  in  her  aspect,  she  has  awakened  all  creatures  to  cheerful- 
ness. 7.  The  shining  daughter  of  the  skies,  leader  of  cheerful  voices 
(or  hymns),299  has  been  lauded  by  the  Gotamas.  Ushas,  thou  distri- 
butest  resources  in  offspring,  men,  horses,  and  kine.  8.  Blessed  Ushas, 
thou  who,  animated  by  strength,  shinest  forth  with  wonderful  riches, 
may  I  obtain  that  renowned  and  solid  wealth,  which  consists  in  stout 
sons,  numerous  slaves,  and  horses.  9.  Directing  her  eyes  towards  all 
creatures,  the  goddess  shines  before  them  far  and  wide.  Rousing  into 
motion  every  living  thing,  she  notices  the  voice  of  every  adorer.  10. 
Born  again  and  again,  though  ancient,  shining  with  an  ever  uniform 
hue,  (she  goes  on)  wasting  away  the  life  of  mortals,  carrying  it  away 
as  a  clever  gambler  the  stakes.300  11.  She  is  perceived  revealing  the 
ends  of  the  sky  ;  she  chases  far  away  her  sister  (Night).  "Wearing  out 
the  lives  of  men,  the  lady  shines  with  the  light  of  her  lover  (the  sun). 
[i.  115,  2.  The  sun  follows  the  shining  goddess  Ushas,  as  a  man,  com- 
ing after,  approaches  a  woman,  vii.  75,  4.  Daughter  of  the  Sky, 
mistress  of  the  world,  food-providing  wife  of  the  sun.]  i.  92,  12. 
The  bright,  and  blessed  goddess  has  widely  diffused  her  rays,  as 
if  she  were  Driving  forth  cattle  in  various  directions,  or  as  a  river 

r> 

boldly  to  men,  as  a  warrior  on  a  chariot  goes  forth  proudly  to  conquer  booty  (comp. 
ix.  96,  20),  as  a  decorated  wife  in  presence  of  her  busband,  so  Ushas  unveils  before 
the  eyes  of  men  all  her  beauty,  smiling  as  it  were  in  the  sure  consciousness  of  its  over- 
powering effect."  This  explanation  seems  to  express  well  the  import  of  the  word 
sasadana  as  interpreted  in  a  previous  note. 
.  2"  See  above,  note  285. 

300  Sayana  takes  ivaghnl  for  a  "fowler's  wife"  (ryadha-strf),  and  vijah  for 
"birds."  See  "Wilson  in  loco.  Benfey  takes  vijah  for  "dice,"  and  explains  the 
clause  as  denoting  a  cunning  gambler  who  tampers  with  the  dice,  by  shaving  them 
down.  See  his  note.  Bollensen,  Orient  und  Occident,  ii.  464,  translates :  "  as  a 
fortunate  gamester  carries  off  the  gains."  The  phrase  vijah  iva  a  minati  occurs  again 
in  R.V.  ii.  125,  where  Sayana  takes  vijah  for  tidvc/akah,  "a  vexer."  So  uncertain 
are  his  explanations  ! 


HYMNS  ADDEESSED  TO  USHAS.  187 

rolling  down  its  floods  ;  maintaining  the  ordinances  of  the  gods,  she 
is  perceived,  made  visible  by  the  rays  of  the  sun.  13.  TJshas,  provider 
of  food,  bring  us  that  brilliant  fortune  whereby  we  may  possess  off- 
spring. 14.  TJshas,  resplendent,  awaking  cheerful  voices  (or  hymns), 
dawn  richly  upon  us  to-day,  bringing  cows  and  horses.  15.  Yoke  to- 
day, Ushas,  thy  ruddy  steeds,  and  then  bring  us  all  blessings." 

i.  113,  1  (=S.V.  ii.  1099;  Mr»  ii.  19).  Idam  sreshthafh  jyotishdm 
jyotir  dgdt  chitrah  praketo  ajanishta  vibhvd  \  yathd  prasutd  Savituh 
savdya  eva  rdtrl  Ushase  yonim  araik  \  [i.  124,  8  Svasd  svasre  jyd- 
yasyai  yonim  araig  apaiti  asydh  pratichakshya  iva~]  i.  113,  2  (  = 
S.V.  ii.  1100;  Nir.  ii.  20).  Rusadvatsd  rusatl  ivetyd  dgdd  araig  u 
krishna  sadandni  asydh  \  samdnabandhu  amrite  anuchl  dydvd  varnam 
charatah  dmindne  \  3  (=  S.V.  ii.  1101).  Samdno  adhvd  svasror  anan- 
tas  tarn  anyd  'nyd  charato  devasishte  \  na  metJiete  na  tashthatuh  sumeke 
nakloshdshd  samanasd  virupe  \  4.  Bhdsvatl  netrl  sunritdndm  acheti 
chitrd  vi  duro  nah  dvah  \  prdrpya  jagad  vi  u  no  rdyo  akhyad  ushdh 
ajigar  Wmvandni  visvd  \  [i.  48,  1*5.  Usho  yad  adyd  Ihdnund  vi 
dvdrdv  rinavo  divah  \  ityddi~\  i.  113,  5.  Jihmasye  charitave  maghorii 
dbhogaye  ishtaye  rdye  u  tvam  \  dabhram  pasyadbhyah  urviyd  vi 
chaksfte  uslidh  ajlgar  bhuvandni  visvd  \  6.  Kshattrdya  tvam  sravase  tvam 
mahlyai  ishtaye  tvam  artham  iva  tvam  ityai  \  visadrisd  jlvitd  'bhipra- 
chakshe  ushdh  ajigar  bhuvandni  visvd  \  7.  Eshd  divo  duhitd  pratyadarsi 
vyuchhantl  yuvatih  sukravdsdh  301  |  visvasyesdnd  pdrthivasya  vasvah  usho 
adyeha  suhhage  vi  uchha  \  8.  Pardyatlndm  anu  eti  pdthah  dyatlndm 
prathamd  sasvatlndm  \  vyuchhantl  jlvam  udlrayantl  ushdh  mritam  kam 
chcma  lodhayantl  \  [i.  123,  8.  Sadrisir  adya  sadrislr  id  u  svo  dlrgham 
sachante  Varunasya  dhdma  \  anavadyds  trimsatam  yojandni  ekaikd  Icra- 
tum  pari  yanti  sadyah  \  9.  Jdnatl  ahnah  prathamasyo  ndma  sukrd  Icrish- 
ndd  ajanishta  svitlchl  \  ritasya  yoshd  na  mindti  dhdma  ahar  ahar  nish- 
kritam  dcharantl]  i.  113,  9.  Usho  yad  agnim  samidhe  chalcartha  vi  yad 
dvas  chaltshasd  suryasya  \  yad  mdnushdn  yakshyamdndn  ajlgas  tad  deveshu 
chaTcrishe  bhadram  apnah  \  1 0.  Kiyati  d  tat  samayd  lhavdti  yah  vyushur' 
yds  cha  nunam  vyuchhdn  \  anu  purvdh  kripatS  vdvasdnd  pradidhydnd 
josham  anydbhir  ydti  \  11.  lyus  te  ye  purvatardm  apasyan  vyuchhantlm 
ushasam  martydsah  \  asmdbhir  u  nu  pratichakshyd  alhud  d  u  te  yanti 

801  Compare  yii.  77,  2:   Visvam  pratlchl  saprathah  ud  asthad  rusad  vaso  bibhrat7 
s'ukram  asvait. 


188  HYMNS  ADDEESSED  TO  USHAS. 

ye  aparlshu  pasydn  \  12.  Ydvayaddveshd  ritapdh  ritejdh  sumndvarl 
sunritd  Irayantl  \  sumangallr  bibhratl  devavltim  ihddya  Ushdh  srestha- 
tamd  vi  uchha  \  13.  tfasvat  purd  ushdh  vi  uvdsa  devl  atho  adya  idam  vi 
dvo  maghonl  \  atho  vi  uchkdd  uttardn  anu  dyun  ajard  'mritd  charati 
svadhdbhih  \  14.  Vi  anjilhir  divah  dtdsu  adyaud  apa  krishndm  nirnijam 
devl  dvah  \  prabodhayantl  arunebhir  asvair  d  ushdh  ydti  suyujd  rathena  \ 
15.  Avahantl poshyd  vdrydni  cJiitrafh  Itetum  krinute  chekitdnd  \  lyushlndm 
upamd  sdsvatlndm  vibhdtlndm  prathamd  ushdh  vi  asvait  \  [i.  124,  2. 
Aminatl  daivydni  vratdni  praminatl  manushyd  yugdni  \  lyushlndm 
upamd  sasvatlndm  dyatlndm  prathamd  ushdh  vy  adyaut  |]  i.  113,  16. 
Ud  Irdhvam  jwo  asur  nah  dgdd  apa  prdgdt  tamah  d  jyotir  eti  \  araik 
panthdm  ydtave  Surydya  aganma  yatra  pratirante  dyuh  \  17.  Syumand 
vdchah  ud  iyartti  vahnih  stavdno  rebhah  ushaso  vibhdtlh  \  adya  tad  uchha 
grinate  maghoni  asme  dyur  ni  didlhi  prajdvat  \  18.  Ydh  gomatlr  usha- 
sah  sarvavlr.dh  vyuchhanti  ddsushe  martydya  \  vdyor  iva  sunritdndm 
udarJce  tdh  asvaddh  asnavat  somasutvd  \  19.  Mdtd  devdndm  Aditer  anl- 
Icam  yajnasya-ketur  brihatl  vi  bhdhi  \  prasastikrid  brahmane  no  vi  uchha 
d  nojanejanaya  visvavdre  \  20.  Yat  chitram  apnah  ushaso  vahanti  ydndya 
iasamdndya  bhadram  \  tan  no  Mitro  Varuno  mdmahantdm  Aditih  sindhuh 
Prithivl  uta^Dyauh  \ 

"1.  "  This  light  has  arrived,  the  greatest  of  all  lights  ;  the  glorious 
and  brilliant  illumination  has  been  born.  Inasmuch  as  she  (Ushas) 
has  been  produced  for  the  production  of  Savitri,  the  Mght  has 
made  way  for  Ushas.  [i.  '124,  8.  The  sister  (Night)  has  made 
way  for  her  elder  sister  (Ushas)  ;  and  departs,  after  she  has,  as  it 
were,  looked  upon  her],  i.  113,  2.  The  fair  'and  bright  Ushas, 
with  her  bright  child  (the  Sun)  has  arrived  ;  to  her  the  dark 
(Night)  has  relinquished  her  abodes ;  kindred  to  one  another,  im- 
mortal, alternating,  Day  and  Night  go  on  changing  colour.  3.  The 
same  is  the  never-ending  path  of  the  two  sisters,  which  they  travel, 
commanded  by  the  gods.  They  strive  not,  they  rest  not,  the  prolific 
•  Night  and  Dawn,  concordant,  though  unlike.  4.  The  shining  Ushas, 
leader  of  joyful  voices  (or  hymns),  has  been  perceived  ;  she  has  opened 
for  us  the  doors  (of  the  sky) :  setting  in  motion  all  moving  things, 
she  has  revealed  to  us  riches ;  Ushas  has  awakened  all  creatures, 
[i.  48,  15.  Ushas,  as  thou  hast  by  thy  light  opened  to  us  the  two 
doors  of  heaven,  etc.]  i.  113,  5.  (Arousing)  the  prostrate  sleeper  to 


HYMNS  ADDRESSED  TO  USHAS.  189 

move,  (impelling)  another  to  enjoyment,  to  the  pursuit  of  wealth, 
(enabling)  those  who  see  but  a  little  way,  to  see  far;  Ushas  has 
awakened  all  creatures.  6.  (Arousing)  one  to  seek  royal  power, 
another  to  follow  after  fame,  another  for  grand  efforts,  another  to 
pursue  as  it  were  his  particular  object, — Ushas  awakes  all  creatures  to 
consider  their  different  modes  of  life.  7.  She,  the  daughter  of  the  sky, 
has  been  beheld  breaking  fortl>  youthful,  clad  in  shining  attire: 
mistress  of  all  earthly  treasures,  auspicious  Ushas,  shine  here  to-day. 
8.  Ushas  follows  the  track  of  the  Dawns  that  are  past,  and  is  the 
first  of  the  unnumbered  Dawns  that  are  to  come,  breaking  forth, 
arousing  life,  and  awaking  every  one  that  was  dead.  [i.  123,  8. 
Alike  to-day,  alike  to-morrow,  they  observe  the  perpetual  ordinance 
of  Varuna.  Spotless,  they  each  instantaneously  shoot  forward  thirty 
yojanas,  their  destined  task.302  9.  Knowing  the  indication  of  the 
earliest  day,  the  bright,  the  lucid  (goddess)  has  been  born  from  the 
black  (gloom).  The  female  does  not  transgress  the  settled  ordinance, 
coming  day  by  day  to  the  appointed 'place.]  i.  113,  9.  Inasmuch  as 
thou  hast  made  Agni  to  be  kindled,  hast  shone  forth  by  the  light  of 
the  sun,  and  hast  awakened  the  men  who  are  to  offer  sacrifice,  thou 
hast  done  good  service  to  the  gods.  10.  How  great  is  the  interval 
that  lies  between303  the  Dawns  which  have  arisen,  and  those  which 
are  yet  to  arise  ?  Ushas  yearns  longingly  after  the  former  Dawns, 
and  gladly  goes  on  shining  with  the  others  (that  are  to  come). 
1 1 .  Those  mortals  are  gone  who  saw  the  earliest  Ushas  dawning ;  we 
shall  gaze  upon  her  now ;  and  the  men  are  coming  who  are  to  behold 
her  on  future^  morns.  12.  Repelling  foes,  protecting  right  (or  rites), 
born  in  right  (or  rites),  imparting  joy,  stimulating  joyful  voices  (or 
hymns),  bringing  good  fortune,  promoting  the  feast  of  the  gods,  rise  on 
us,  Ushas,  the  best  (of  all  Dawns).  13.  Perpetually  in  former  days  did 
the  divine  Ushas  dawn  ;  and  now  to-day  the  magnificent  goddess 
beams  upon  this  world :  undecaying,  immortal,  she  marches  on  by  her 
own  will.  14.  She  has  shone  forth  with  her  splendours  on  the  borders* 
of  the  sky ;  the  bright  goddess  has  chased  'away  the  dark  veil  of 

302  See  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.  k»atu. 

303  samaya  means  "  near,"  according  to  Sayana.     Prof.  MUller,  Trans,  p.  220, 
considers  it  to  signify  "  together,"  "at  once."     The  rendering  I  have  given  is  that 
of  Professor  Aufrecht. 


190  RELATIONS  OF  USHAS 

night;  arousing  the  world,  TJshas  advances  in  her  well-yoked  car, 
drawn  by  ruddy  steeds.  15.  Bringing  with  her  abundant  boons, 
revealing  herself,  she  displays  a  brilliant  lustre.  TJshas  has  shone 
forth,  the  last  of  the  numerous  Dawns  which  are  past,  and  the  first  of 
those  which  are  coming,  [i.  124,  2.  Maintaining  the  ordinances  of 
the  gods,  but  wasting  away  the  lives  of  men,  TJshas  has.  shone  forth, 
the  last  of  the  numerous  former  dawns,  and  the  first  of  those  that  are 
coming.]  i.  113,  16.  Arise!  our  life,  our  breath,  has  come;  darkness 
has  departed ;  light  arrives ;  TJshas  has  opened  up  a  path  for  the  sun 
to  travel :  we  have  reached  the  point  where  men  prolong  their  days. 
17.  The  priest,  the  poet,  celebrating  the  brightening  Dawns,  arises  with 
the  web304  of  his  hymn;  shine  therefore,  magnificent  TJshas,  on  him 
who  praises  thee ;  gleam  on  us  with  life  and  offspring.  18.  May  he 
who  offers  libations  of  soma  obtain  such  Dawns  as  rise  upon  the  liberal 
mortal,  (Dawns)  rich  in  kine,  in  (sons)  all  stalwart,  and  in  horses,  at 
the  end  of  his  hymns  which  resound  like  the  wind.305  19.  Mother  of 
the  gods,  manifestation  of  Aditi,  forerunner  of  the  sacrifice,  mighty 
TJshas,  shine  forth !  Arise,  bestowing  approbation  on  our  prayer ;  giver 
of  all  boons,  increase  our  progeny.306  20.  May  Mitra,  Yaruna,  Aditi, 
the  Ocean,  tne  Earth,  and  the  Sky,  bestow  upon  us  those  brilliant  and 
excellent  resources  which  the  Dawns  bring  to  the  man  who  offers 
sacrifice  and  praise." 

(2)  Relations  of  Ushas  to  the  other  deities. 

TJshas,  as  we  have  seen,  is  constantly  described  as  the  daughter  of 
the  Sky  (duhitd  Divah,  as  in  i.  30,  22;  i.  48,  1,  8,  9  ;  i.  92,  5,  7  ;  i. 
183,  2;  iv.  30,  8;  vii.  67,  2;  viii.  47,  14  f . ;  divijuh  in  vii.  75,  I).307 
She  is  also  called  the  sister  of  Bhaga  and  the  kinswoman  of  Varuna, 
i.  123,  5  (Bhagasya  svasd  Varunasya  jamiK).  She  is  also  the  sister  of 

304  Syumana  is  taken  by    Sayana   as  an   accusative   plural   and  construed  with 
vachah  in  the  sense  of  "hymns  sewed  together,"  or  "connected."     Professor  Benfey 

^takes  it  as  the  instrumental  singular  of  syuman,  and  renders,  "  with  the  web  of  the 
word."      Professor  Aufrecht  confirms  this  view,  referring  to  R.V.  iii.  61,4. 

305  See  Benfey  in  loco,  and  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.  udarka,  where  sunrita  is  ex- 
plained of  hymns. 

see  Professor  Aufrecht  proposes  to  translate  jane  a  janaya  by  "  give  us  prominence 
among  men."  Sayuna  explains  thfi  words  by  "settle  us  in  the  country"  (janapade 
abhimukhyena  pradurbhavaya  \  avasthapaya. 

307  In  i.  46,  1,  she  is  called  "  the  beloved  of  the  Sky  "  (priya  Divah). 


TO  THE  OTHER  DEITIES.  191 

Night,  i.  1 13,  2,  3  ;  x.  127,  3,  and  in  i.  124,  8,  the  elder  sister.  Night 
is  also  in  one  place,  x.  127,  8,  called  the  daughter  of  the  Sky.  The 
two  sisters  are  frequently  conjoined  in  the  duals  naktoshasd  and  ushasd- 
naktd  or  otherwise,  i.  13,  7  ;  i.  90,  7;  i.  96,  5;  i.  122,  2;  i.  186,  4; 
ii.  2,  2 ;  ii.  3,  6 ;  ii.  31,  5 ;  iv.  55,  3 ;  v.  41,  7  ;  vii.  2,  6  ;  vii.  42,  5  ; 
ix.  5,  6  ;  x.  36,  1 ;  x.  70,  6 ;  'x.  110,  6.  In  vii.  2,  6,  they  are  com- 
pared to  two  great  celestial  females  (yoshane  divye  mahl  na  ushasdnaktd}, 
and  in  ii.  31,  5,  they  are  characterized  as  the  two  blessed  goddesses 
who  are  seen  alternately 308  and  impel  all  moving  things  (uta  tye  devl 
subhage  mithudrisd  ushasdnaktd  jagatdm  apljuvd  \  stushe  |).  TJshas  is 
also,  as  was  to  be  expected,  frequently  brought  into  connection  with 
the  Sun.  As  we  have  seen  above,  he  is  called  her  lover,  i.  92,  11,  or  if 
with  Roth,  s.v.jdra,  we  should  understand  this  of  Agni,  the  Sun  is 
indubitably  described  as  going  after  TJshas  as  a  man  after  a  woman,  in 
i.  115,  2,  quoted  above.  He  is  said  to  follow  her  track,  v.  81,  2 
(savitd  anu  praydnam  ushaso  m  rdjati} ;  and  she  is  represented  as 
bringing  the  eye  of  the  gods  and  leading  on  the  beautiful  white  horse 
(the  sun),  vii.  77,  3.  She  is  declared  to  Jse  the  mistress  of  the  world 
and  the  wife  of  the  sun,  vii.  75,  5  (bhuvanasya  patrii  \  vdjiriivatl  suryasya 
yoshd\  as  the  Dawns,  in  the  plural,  are  said  to  be  in  iv.  J,  13  (kadd  no 
devlr  amritasya  patnlh  sure  varnena  tatanann  ushasaK).  In  iii.  61,  4, 
TJshas  is  said  to  be  svasarasya  patni,  which  Say  ana  renders  wife  of  the 
Sun  or  the  Day.309  In  vii.  78,  3,  the  Dawns  are  even  said  to  generate 
the  sun,  sacrifice  and  Agni  (ajljanan  suryam  yajnam  agnitri).  TJshas  and 
Agni  are  also  frequently  brought  into  conjunction,  fire  being  always 
kindled  for  sacrificial  purposes  at  dawn.  He  is  called  her  lover,  and 
is  said  to  appear  with,  or  before  the  dawn,  i.  69,  1 ;  i.  124,  1,  11  ;  iii. 
5,  1  ;  iv.  13,  1 ;  iv.  14,  1  ;  vii.  8,  1  ;  vii.  9,  l'  3 ;  vii.  10,  1 ;  vii.  67, 
2;  vii.  77,  1 ;  vii.  78,  2;  viii.  43,  5  ;  x.  1,  1  ;  x.  8,  4 ;  x.  35,  6;  x. 
122,  7.310  In  one  place  he  is  represented  as  going  to  meet  her  as  she 
comes,  and  to  beg  for  riches  (iii.  61,  6.  dyatim  Ague  Ushasam  vHhatlm 
vdmam  eshi  dravinam  IhikshamdnaK}.  In  vii.  6,  5,  Agni  is  said  to  have* 

308  So  Professor  Roth  understands  mithudrisa.     Sayana  makes  it  "looking  at 
each  other." 

309  Roth,  however,  Illustr.  of  Nirukta,  p.  56,  says  svasara  (neuter)  means  only 
customary  road,  place  of  abode,  court  for  cattle,  but  he  does  not  aavert  to  this  passage. 

310  In  x.  3,  3  (  =  S.V.  ii.  898),  Agni  appears  to  be  the  lover  of  his  sister,  the  Night. 
See  Benfey's  trans,  of  the  S.V.  ii.  898. 


192  EELATIONS  OF  USHAS 

made  the  Dawns,  the  spouses  of  the  noble  god  (yo  aryapatriir  ushasas  cha- 
lcdra\  which  Sayana  understands  of  the  sun.     Ushas  is  also  often  con- 
nected with  the  Asvins,  the  time  of  whose  manifestation,  as  we  shall 
hereafter  see,  is  regarded  by  Yaska  as  being  between  midnight  and 
sunrise,  i.  44,  2 ;  i.  180,  1 ;  iii.  20,  1  ;  vii.  69,  5 ;  vii.  72,  3,  4 ;  viii. 
9,  18;  x.  41,  1.     They  are  said  to  associate  with  her,  i.  183,  2  (Divo 
duhitrd  Ushasd  sachethe] ;  and  she  is,  said  to  be  th,eir  friend,  iv.  52,  2 
(sakhd  'bhud  Asvinor  Ushdh  \  3.  TTta  sakhd  'si  Asvinoh}.    In  viii.  9,  17, 
she  is  called  upon  to  awaken  them  (pra  bodhaya  Vsho  Asvina).    Her 
hymn  is  said  to  have  awoke  them,  iii.  58,  1  (TTshasah  stomo  Asvindv 
ajlgah}.  Again,  however,  we  are  told  that  when  the  Asvins'  car  is  yoked, 
the  daughter  of  the  sky  is  born,  x.  39,  12  (yasya  yoge  duhitd  jay  ate 
Divah).    In  one  place,  x.  85,  19,  the  moon  is  said  to  be  born  again  and 
again,  ever  new,  and  to  go  before  Ushas  as  the  herald  of  the  day  (navo 
navo  lhavati  jdyamdno  ahndm  Icetur  ushasdm  eti  agram).     Indra  is 
said  to  have  created,  or  lighted  up,  Ushas,  ii.  12,  7  (yah  suryam  yah 
Ushasam  jajdna) ;  ii.  21,  4;  iii.  3=1,  15;  iii.  32,  8;  iii.  44,  2  (haryann 
mhasam  archayah]  •    vi.   17f  5.      He  is,  however,   sometimes  repre- 
sented as  assuming  a  hostile  attitude  towards  her.     In  ii.  15,  6,  he  is 
said  to  have 'crushed  her  chariot  with  his  thunderbolt  (vajrena  anah 
Ushasah  sampipesha}.      The  same  thing  is  repeated  in  iv.   30,  8  ff. 
(where   the  poet,  with  the  want  of   gallantry  which   was   so   cha- 
racteristic of  the  ancients,  does  not  hesitate  to   admire  the  manli- 
ness and  heroism  of  Indra  iii  overcoming  a  female)  :    Etad  gha  id 
uta  vlryyam  Indra  chakartha  paumsyam  \  striyam  yad  durhandyuvam 
vadhlr  duhitaram  Divah  \  9.  Divas  chid  gha  duhitaram  mahdn  mahlya- 
mdndm  \    Ushasam  Indra  sam  pinak  \   10  (=  Mrukta,  xi.  47).  Apa 
Ushdh  anasah  sarat  sampishtdd  aha  bibhyushl  \  ni  yat  slm  sisnathad 
vrishd  \   11  (=  Nir.  xi.  48).  Etad  asydh  anah  saye  susampishtam  vipdsi 
a  |  sasdra  slm  pardvatah  \   "8.  This,  Indra,  was  a  deed  of  might  and 
manliness  which  thou  didst  achieve,  that  thou  didst  smite  the  daughter 
of  the  sky,  a  woman  who  was  bent  on  evil.     9.  Thou  Indra,  a  great 
(god),  didst  crush  Ushaa,  though  the  daughter  of  the  sky,  who  was  ex- 
alting herself.     10.  Ushas  fled  away  in  terror  from  her  shattered  car, 
when  the  vigorous  (Indra)  had  crushed  it.    11.  This  chariot  of  hers  lies 
broken  and  dissolved,  while  she  herself  has  fled  afar  off."      These 
verses  are  translated  in  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta  by  Eoth,  who 


TO  THE  OTHER  DEITIES.  193 

adduces  R.Y.  x.  138,  5,  as  referring  to  the  same  myth:  Indrasya 
vajrdd  abibhed  abhisnathah  prdkrdmat  sundhyur  ajahdd  Ushdh  anah  \ 
"  The  bright  Ushas  was  afraid  of  the  destructive  thunderbolt  of  Indra  ; 
she  departed  and  abandoned  her  chariot."  And  in  x.  73,  6,  it  is  said 
that  Indra  destroyed  certain  foes  like  the  chariot  of  Ushas  (avdhann 
Indrah  Ushaso  yathd  anah). 

Soma  is  said  to  have  made  the  J)awns  bright  at  their  birth,  vi.  39,  3, 
(suchijanmanah  Ushasas  chaka.ra\  and  to  have  formed  them  the  wives 
of  a  glorious  husband,  vi.  44,  23  (ayam  akrinod  ushasah  supatnlh). 
Brihaspati  is  said  to  have  discovered  TJshas,  the  Sun,  etc.,  x.  67,  5, 
(Brihaspatir  Ushasam  Suryam  gam  arkam  viveda\  and  to  have  repelled 
the  darkness  by  light,  x,  68,  9  (so  arkena  vi  babddhe  tamdmsi). 

The  early  fathers,  who  were  wise  and  righteous,  and  companions  of 
the  gods  in  their  festivities,  are  said  to  have  possessed  efficacious  hymns 
wherewith  they  discovered  the  hidden  light,  and  generated  Ushas,  vii. 
76,  4  (te  id  devdndm  sadhamddah  dsann  ritdvdnah  kavayah  purvydsah  \ 
ffiilham  jyotir  pitaro  anvavindan  satyamantrdh  ajanayann  Ushasam). 

(3)  JSpithets,  characteristics,  and  functions  of  Ushas. 

The  Nighantu,  i.  8,  gives  sixteen  names  of  Ushas,  which  seem  to  be 
almost  entirely  epithets,  viz.  vibhdvarl  (the  resplendent),  sunarl  (the 
beautiful),  bhdsvatl  (the  shining),  odatl  (the  flowing,  gushing,  from  the 
root  ud,  according  to  Professor  Roth,  &.#.),  chitramaghd  (possessed  of 
brilliant  riches),  arjuni  (the  white),  vdjini,  vdjiriivatl  (the  bringer  of 
food),  sumndvarl  (the  giver  of  joy),  ahand,  dyotand  (the  bright),  svetya 
(the  fair-coloured),  arushl  (the  ruddy),  sunritd,  sunritdvati,  sunritd- 
vari  (the  utterer  of  pleasant  or  sacred  voices).311*  Some  of  these  epithets 

311  Professor  Aufreeht  thinks  that  this  -woT^sunrita  is  to  be  explained  as  follows :  He 
considers  it  to  be  a  derivative  from  nrit,  "  to  be  in  motion,"  compounded  with  su. 
Its  first  meaning  is  'movable'  (sunrita  may  hunt,  E.V.  vii.  57,  6),  then  'brisk,' 
^alert '  (sunrita,  predicated  of  Indra,  viii.  46,  20  ;  sunrite  of  Ushas,  iv.  55,  9 ;  • 
i.  123,  5  ;  124,  10;  viii.  9,  17).  As  a  feminine  substantive  in  the  plural  it  means 
either  '  activity,'  or,  with  a  supplied  gir,  "lively  voices  (sunritanam  giram,  iii.  31, 
18) ;  netrl  sunritatiam  is  Ushas  as  a  stimulator,  or  rather,  leader  (xopiryos)  of  joyful 
voices  (of  birds,  etc.) ;  sunrita  irayanti  is  just  the  same.  Professor  Aufreeht  is  of 
opinion  that  the  words  vayor  iva  sunritanam  ttdarke,  in  R.V.  i?  113,  18,  should  not 
be  rendered  as  I  have  done  in  p.  190,  above,  but  translated  thus :  "  when  fervent 
voices  arise  like  the  rising  of  the  wind  (ortu  vocum  velut  ortu  ventf)."  Udarka  he 


194  EPITHETS,  CHARACTERISTICS, 

are  of  frequent  occurrence  in  the  hymns,  and  there  are  also  many  others 
to  be  found  there,  such  as  maghonl  (the  magnificent),  sulhaga  (the  fortu- 
nate), arunapsu  (the  ruddy),  ritavarl  (the  righteous),  ritapa  (the  pre- 
server of  right  or  of  order),  ritejd  (born  in  right,  or  order),  suchi 
(bright),  hiranyavarna  (gold-hued),  devl  (the  goddess,  or  the  divine), 
amritd  (the  immortal),  ranvasandrik  (of  pleasant  aspect),  sudrislka- 
sandriJc  (the  same),  supratlkd  (the  brilliant),  satyasravasl  (possessed  of 
real  wealth,  or  renown),  ddnuchitrd  (bringing  brilliant  gifts),  ghritapra- 
tlkd  (shining  like  butter),  indratama  (most  similar  to  Indra),  i.  30,  20  ; 
i.  48,  1,  2,  7,  10  ;  i.  92,  6-9,  14,  15  ;  i.  113,  2,  12,  13  ;  i.  123, 
4,  6  ;  i.  134,  4  ;  iii.  61,  2,  5 ;  iv.  55,  9 ;  v.  59,  8 ;  v.  80,  1 ;  vii.  75, 
5;  vii.  77,  2  ;  vii.  78,  4;  vii.  79,  3;  vii.  81,  1  ;  viii.  62,  16. 

Ushas  is  borne  onward  on  a  shining  chariot,  of  massive  construction, 
richly  decorated  and  spontaneously  yoked  (rathena  brihatd, — supesasd, — 
visvapisd, — sosuchatd, — -jyotishmatd, — svadhayd  yujyamdnena),  i.  48,  10; 
i.  49,  2;  i.  123,  7;  iii.  61,  2 ;  v.  80,  2 ;  vii.  75,  6;  vii.  78,  1,  4; 
from  the  distant  east,  i.  92,  1 ;  i,  124,  5.  She  is  also  said  to  arrive  on 
a  hundred  chariots,  i.  48,  7.  She  is  drawn  by  ruddy  horses  (arunebhir 
asvaih},  i.  30,  22;  i.  49,  1 ;  i.  92,  15 ;  i.  113,  4;  iii.  61,  2;  iv.  51,  5 ; 
v.  79,  1  ff. ;  Vii.  .75,  6,  or  by  cows  or  bulls  of  the  same  colour,  Nighantu 
i.  15;  R.Y.  i.  92,  2;  i.  124,  11;  v.  80,  3;  and  traverses  rapidly  a 
distance  of  thirty  yojanas,  i.  123,  8.  Like  a  beautiful  young  woman 
dressed  by  her  mother,  a  richly  decked  dancing  girl,  a  gaily  attired 
wife  appearing  before  her  husband,  or  a  female  rising  resplendent  out 
of  the  bath, — smiling,  and  confiding  in  the  irresistible  power  of  her 
attractions,  she  unveils  her  bosom  to  the  gaze  of  the  beholder,  i.  92, 
4;  i.  123,  '10;  i.  124,  4ff.;  v.  80,  4,  5  ;  vi.  64,  2.  She  dispels  the 
darkness,  disclosing  the  treasures  it  had  concealed  ;  she  illuminates  the 
world,  revealing  its  most  distant  extremities.  She  is  the  life  and 
breath  of  all  things,  causing  the  birds  to  fly  forth  from  their  nests, 
visiting  every  house,  and  like  an  active  housewife  arousing  her  houser 
-  hold,  awakening  the  five  races  of  men,  yea  all  creatures,  as  if  from, 
death,  and  sending  mer  forth  to  the  pursuit  of  their  several  occupations, 

regards  as  derived  from  ud  and  the  root  ri,  and  as  meaning  "rising,"  "motion 
upward,"  and  compares  R.V.  iii.  8,  5.  Devayah  viprah  udiyartti  vacham,  "  The  pious 
priest  raises  his  voice ; "  and  vi.  47,  3.  Ayam  me  pttah  udiyartti  vacham,  "  This 
sorna,  when  drunk,  raises  my  utterance."  I  note  that  sunrita  is  invoked  as  a  goddess 
(dev~i)  in  R.V.  i.  40,  3,  and  x.  141,  2. 


AND  FUNCTIONS  OF  USHAS.  195 

i.  48,5,  8,  10;  i.  49,  4;  i.  92,11;  i.  113,8,  1-6;  i.  123,4,  6 ;  i.  124, 
12;  ii.  34,  12 ;  vii.  76,  1 ;  vii.  79,  1  f.;  vii.  80,  1,  and  rendering  good 
service  to  the  gods,  by  causing  all  worshippers  to  awake,  and  the  sacrificial 
fires  to  be  kindled,  i.  113,  9.  She  is,  however,  entreated  to  arouse  only 
the  devout  and  liberal  worshipper,  and  to  leave  the  ungodly  niggard 
to  sleep  on  in  unconsciousnes's,  i.  124,  10;  iv.  51,  3.  She  is  young, 
being  born  anew  every  day,  and,  yet  she  is  old,  nay  immortal,  and 
wears  out  the  lives  of  successive  generations,  which  disappear  one  after 
another,  while  she  continues  undecaying,  i.  92,  9  ff. ;  i.  113,  13,  15; 
i.  123,  2;  i.  124,  2;  vii.  18,  20. 

The  worshippers,  however,  sometimes  venture  to  take  the  credit  of 
being  more  alert  than  Ushas,  and  of  awaking  her  instead  of  being 
awakened  by  her  (prati  stomair  abhutsmahi,  iv.  52,  4  ;  vii.  68,  9  ; 
vii.  81,  3 ;  x.  88,  19 ;  and  this  the  Vasishthas  claim  to  have  been  the 
first  to  do  by  their  hymns,  vii.  80,  1  {prati  stomebJiir  ushasam 
Fasishthdh  girlhir  viprasah  prathamah  aludhrari) ;  and  in  one  place 
she  is  solicited  to  make  no  delay,  that  the  sun  may  not  scorch  her 
like  a  thief  or  an  enemy,  v.  79,  9  (vi  uchha  duhitar  Divo  ma  chiram 
tanuthah  apah  \  na  it  tva  stenam  yatJid  ripum  tapati  suro  archishd). 
She  is  prayed  to  bring  the  gods  to  drink  the  libations* of  Soma,  i. 
48,  12.  Agni  and  the  gods  generally  are  described  as  waking  with 
TJshas  (usharludhah},  i.  14,  9;  i.  44,  11 ;  i.  92,  18;  iii.  2,  14;  iv.  6, 
8;  vi.  4,  2;  vi.  15,  1  ;  ix.  84,  4. 

As  we  have  already  seen  from  the  hymns  which  have  been  trans- 
lated, she  is  frequently  asked  to  bring,  or  dawn  (as  in  former  times)  on 
the  worshipper  with,  various  sorts  of  wealth,  children,  slaves,  etc.,  to 
afford  protection,  and  to  prolong  life,  i.  30,  22  ;  i.  48,  1  ff.,  9, 
11,  15;  i.  92,  8,  13  ff.;  iv.  51,  7;  vii.  41,  7;\ii.  75,  2;  vii.  77,  5; 
to  revolve  like  a  wheel  ever  new,  iii.  61,  3;  to  confer  renown  and 
glory  on  the  liberal  benefactors  of  the  poet,  v.  79,  6  f.  (comp.  i.  48,  4) ; 
tto  drive  away  sleeplessness  to  Trita  Aptya,  viii.  47,  14-16. 

The  worshippers  in  one  place  ask  that  they  may  obtain  from  her* 
riches,  and  stand  to  her  in  the  relation  of  sois  to  a  mother  (vii.  81, 
4  :  tasyds  te  ratnabhdjah  imahe  vayam  sydma  mdtur  na  sunavah}. 

In  x.  58,  8,  the  souls  of  the  departed  are  said  to  go  to  the  sun  and 
to  Ushas. 


196  METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  USHAS. 

Ushas,  as  represented  in  the  hymns, — a  metrical  sketch. 

In  the  following  verses  I  have  attempted  to  reproduce  the  most 
striking  ideas  in  the  hymns  to  Ushas,  which  have  been  quoted  above. 
It  will  be  seen  on  comparison  that  there  is  little  in  these  lines  of 
which  the  germ  will  not  be  found  in  the  originals,  though  some  of  the 
ideas  have  been  expanded  and  modified. 

Hail,  Ushas,  daughter  of  the  sky, 

Who,  borne  upon  thy  shining  car 

By  ruddy  steeds  from  realms  afar, 
And  ever  lightening,  drawest  nigh  : — 

Thou  sweetly  smilest,  goddess  fair, 
Disclosing  all  thy  youthful  grace, 
Thy  bosom  bright,  thy  radiant  face, 

And  lustre  of  thy  golden  hair ; — 

(So  shines  a  fond  and  winning  bride, 
Who  robes  her  form  in  brilliant  guise, 
And  to  her  lord's  admiring  eyes 
«-    Displays  her  charms  with  conscious  pride  ; — 

Or  virgin  by  her  mother  decked, 
Who,  glorying  in  her  beauty,  shews 
In  every  glance,  her  power  she  knows 

All  eyes  to  fix',  all  hearts  subject ; — 

Or  actress,  who  by  skill  in  song 
r.         And  dance,  and  graceful  gestures  light. 

Andrmany-coloured  vestures  bright, 
Enchants  the  eager,  gazing  throng ; — 

Or  maid  who,  wont  her  limbs  to  lave 

In  some  cool  stream  among  the  woods, 
>  Where  never  vulgar  eye  intrudes, 

Emerges  fairer  from  the  wave) ; — 

But  closely  by  the  amorous  sun 
t  Pursued,  and  vanquished  in  the  race, 
Thou  soon  art  locked  in  his  embrace, 
And  with  him  blendest  into  one. 


METKICAL  SKETCH  OF  US  HAS.  197 

Fair  Ushas,  though  through  years  untold 

Thou  hast  lived  on,  yet  thou  art  born 

Anew  on  each  succeeding  morn, 
And  so  thou  art  both  young  and  old. 

As  in  thy  fated 'ceaseless  course 

Thou  risest  on  us  day  by  day, 

»  * 

Thou  wearest  all  our  lives  away 

With  silent,  ever-wasting,  force. 

Their  round  our  generations  run : 

The  old  depart,  and  in  their  place 

Springs  ever  up  a  younger  race, 
Whilst  thou,  immortal,  lookest  on. 

All  those  who  watched  for  thee  of  old 

Are  gone,  and  now  't  is  we  who  gaze 

On  thy  approach ;  in  future  days 
Shall  other  men  thy  beams  behold. 

But 't  is  not  thoughts  so  grave  and  sad 

Alone  that  thou  dost  with  thee  bring, 

A  shadow  o'er  our  hearts  to  fling  ; — 
Thy  beams  returning  make  us  glad. 

Thy  sister,  sad  and  sombre  Night 

With  stars  that  in  the  blue  expanse 
•      Like  sleepless  eyes  mysterious  glance,      * 
At  thy  approach  is  quenched  in  2ght ; — 

And  earthly  forms,  till  now  concealed 

Behind  her  veil  of  dusky  hue, 

Once  more  come  sharply  out  to  view, 
By  thine  illuming  glow  revealed^. 

Thou  art  the  life  of  all  that  lives, 

The  breath  of  all  that  breathes  ;  the 'sight 
Of  thee  makes  every  countenance  bright, 

New  strength  to  every  spirit  gives. 


198  METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  USHAS. 

When  thou  dost  pierce  the  murky  gloom, 
Birds  flutter  forth  from  every  brake, 
All  sleepers  as  from  death  awake, 

And  men  their  myriad  tasks  resume. 

Some,  prosperous,  wake  in  listless  mood, 
And  others  every  n?rve  to  strain 
The  goal  of  power  or  wealth  to  gain, 

Or  what  they  deem  the  highest  good. 

But  some  to  holier  thoughts  aspire, 
In  hymns  the  race  celestial  praise, 
And  light,  on  human  hearths  to  blaze, 

The  heaven-born  sacrificial  Fire. 

And  not  alone  do  bard  and  priest 

Awake ; — the  gods  thy  power  confess 
By  starting  into  consciousness 

"When  thy  first  rays  suffuse  the  east ; 

( 

And  hasting  downward  from  the  sky, 

They  visit  men  devout  and  good, 
Consume  their  consecrated  food, 
And  all  their  longings  satisfy. 

Bright  goddess,  let  thy  genial  rays 
To  us  bring  stores  of  envied  wealth 
In  kine  and  steeds,  and  sons,  with  health, 

And  joy  of  heart,  and  length  of  days. 


199 


SECTION  XIII. 
•  • 

AGNI. 

Agni  is  the  god  of  fire,  the  Ignis  of  the  Latins,312  the  Ogni  of  the 
Slavonians.  He  is  one  of  the  most  prominent  deities  of  the  Rig-veda, 
as  the  hymns  addresed  to  him  far  exceed  in  number  those  which  are 
devoted  to  the  celebration  of  any  other  divinity,  with  the  sole  ex- 
ception of  Indra. 

(1)  His  functions. 

Agni  is  not,  like  the  Greek  Hephaistos,  or  the  Latin  Vulcan, 
the  artificer  of  the  gods  (an  offic'e  which,  as  we  shall  presently 
see,  is  in  the  Veda  assigned  to  Tvashtri),  but  derives  his  principal 
importance  from  his  connection  with  the  ceremonial,  of  sacrifice. 
He  is  an  immortal  (amrita,  amartya)  i.  44}<  6  ;  i.  58,  1  ;  ii.  10, 
1,  2;  iii.  2,  11  ;  iii.  3,  1  ;  iii.  11,  2;  iii.  27,  5,  7;  vi.  9,  4; 
vii.  4,  4  ;  viii.  60,  11  ;  x.  79,  1,  who  has  taken  up  his  abode 
among  mortals  as  their  guest  (atithi\  i.  44,  4  ;  i.  58,  6;  ii.  4,  1  ; 
iii.  2,  2  ;  iv.  1,  20  ;  v.  1,  8 ;  v.  8.  2 ;  v.  18,  1  ;  vi.  2,  7  ;  vi.  15, 
1,  4 ;  vii.  8,  4  ;  viii.  73,  1  ;  x.  1,  5 ;  x.  91,  2  ;  x.  92,  1.  He  is 
the  domestic,  priest,  purohtta,  ritvij,  hotri,  Irahman,  who  wakes  with 
the  dawn  (usharbudh},  or  even  before  the  da^vn  (ushasah  purohitam} 
i.  1,  1 ;  i.  12,  1 ;  i.  13,  1,  4 ;  i.  26,  7 ;  i.  36,  3,  5 ;  i.  44,  7,  12 ;  i.  45, 
7  ;  i.  58,  1,  6;  i.  60,  4;  i.  68,  4,  (7);  i.  76,  2,  4;  i.  127,  1;  i.  141, 
12;  i.  149,  4,  5  ;  ii.  5,  1 ;  ii.  6,  6  ;  ii.  9,  1 ;  iii.  7,  9;  iii.  10,  2,  7 ; 
iii.  11,  1 ;  iii.  14,  1 ;  iii.  19,  1 ;  iv.  1,  8  ;  v.  11,  2;  v.  26,  7;  vi.  15, 
1,  4,  16;  vi.  16,  1;  vii.  7,  5  ;  vii.  10,  5  ;  vii.  11,  1  ;  vii.  16,  5,  12*; 
viii.  44,  6  ;  viii.  49,  1  ;  ix.  66,  20 ; 313  x.  1*  6 ;  x.  92,  2,  appointed 

312  On  the  worship  of  fire  among  the  Greeks  and  Romans  see  the  volume  of  M. 
Fustel  de  Coulanges,  entitled  "  La  Cite  Antique,"  pp.  21  ff. 

313  In  this  verse  he  is  called  a  rishi,  as  well  as  a  priest,  common  to  the  five  races 
(panchajanyah  purohitah). 


200  FUNCTIONS  OF  AGNI. 

both  by  men  and  gods,  who  concentrates  in  his  own  person,  and 
exercises  in  a  higher  sense,  all  the  various  sacrificial  offices  which  the 
Indian  ritual  assigned  to  a  number  of  different  human  functionaries, 
the  adhvaryu,  hotri,  potri,  neshtri,  pra£dstri,  etc.  (i.  94,  6 ;  ii.  1,  2;  ii. 
5,  2  ff . ;  iv.  9,  3,  4 ;  x.  2,  1  (piprlhi  devdn  usato  yavishtha  vidvdn 
ritun  ritupate  yajeha  \  ye  daivydh  ritvyas  telhir  Ague  tvam  hotrindm 
asi  ayajishthah  \  "  satiate  and  worship  here  the  Iqnging  gods,  o  most 
youthful  deity,  knowing  the  proper  seasons,  and  along  with  the 
divine  priests,  for  thou,  Agni,  art  the  most  adorable  of  hotris"); 
x.  92,  8-11  (Agnim  hotdram  parilhutamam  matim,  "Agni,  the  wise; 
the  most  eminent  of  hotris."  He  is  a  sage,  the  divinest  among 
sages  (asuro  vipaschitdm,  iii,  3,  4),  intimately  acquainted  with  all 
the  forms  of  worship,  the  wise  director,  the  successful  accomplisher, 
and  the  protector,  of  all  ceremonies,  who  enables  men  to  serve  the 
gods  in  a  correct  and  acceptable  manner,  in  cases  where  this  would 
be  beyond  their  own  unaided  skill,  i.  1,  4  (Agne  yam  yajnam  adh- 
varam  visvatah  parilhur  asi  ]  sa.id  deveshu  gachhati  \  "Agni,  that 
sacrifice  which  thou  encompassest  on  every  side  goes  to  the  gods"); 
i.  31,  1  (tvam  Agne  prathamo  Angirdli  rishir  dew  devdndm  alhavah 
£ivah  sakhd  \  "Agni,  thou  art  the  first  rishi  Angiras,  a  god,  the 
auspicious  friend  of  go'ds");  iii.  3,  3  (vidathasya  sddhanam  \  "The 
accomplisher  of  the  ceremony");  iii.  21,  3  (rishih  sreshthah  sami- 
dhyase  yajnasya  prdvitd  lhava  \  "  Thou  art  lighted,  a  most  eminent 
rishi;  protect  the  sacrifice");'  iii.  27,  2  (vipaschitam  yajnasya  sdd- 
hanam |  7.  Purastdd  eti  mdyayd  vidathdni  prachodayan  \  2.  "  The 
sage,  the  accomplisher  of  the  sacrifice.  7.  He  goes  before,  by  his 
wondrous  power  promoting  the  ceremonies");  vi.  14,  2  (yedhastamah 
rishih) ;  vii.  4,  4  (kavir  akavishu  prachetdh  I  "  Wise  among  the  foolish ; 
and  intelligent") ;  x.  2,  4  (yad  vo  vayam  pramindma  vratdni  vidushdm 
devdh  avidushtardsah  \  Agnis  tad  visvam  d  prindti  vidvdn  yelhir  devan 
ritubhih  Jcalpaydti  \  5.  Tat  pdkatrd  manasd  dlnadahhdh  na  yajnasya 
manvate  martydsah  \  Agnis  tad  hotd  kratuvid  vijdnan  yajishtho  devan 
rituso  yajdti  \  4.  "  Agni,  knowing  what  seasons  to  assign  to  the  gods, 
rectifies  all  those  mistakes  which  we  ignorant  men  commit  against 
your  prescriptions,  o  ye  most  wise  gods.  5.  Those  matters  relating  to 
the  sacrifice  which  we  mortals  of  feeble  intellects,  with  our  imperfect 
comprehension,  do  not  understand,  may  Agni,  the  venerated  priest 


FUNCTIONS  OF  AGNI.  201 

who  knows  all  these  points,  adjust,  and  worship  the  gods  at  the  proper 
time");  x.  91,  3  {Agne  kavih  Jcdvyena  asi  visvavit).  To  him  the 
attention  of  the  worshippers  is  turned,  as  men's  eyes  are  to  the  sun, 
v.  1,  4  (Agnim  achha  devayatdm  mandmsi  chakshumshi  iva  surye 
sam  charanti].  He  is  the  father,  king,  ruler,  hanner,  or  outward 
manifestation,314  and  superintendent  of  sacrifices  and  religious  duties 
(ketuih  yajndndm  \  pita  yafndnd^t  \  ketur  adhvaranam  \  rdjdnam  adh- 
varasya  \  adhyaksham  dharmandm  imam  \  Ise  yo  visvasydh  devavlteh, 
iii.  3,  3,  4 ;  iii.  10,  4 ;  iii.  11,  2  ;  iv.  3,  1  ;  vi.  2,  3  ;  viii.  43,  24  ; 
x.  1,  5  ;  x.  6,  3).  He  is  also  the  religious  leader  or  priest  of 
the  gods  (sadi/o  jdto  vi  amimlta  yajnam  Agnir  devandm  alhavat 
purogdh  \  Agnir  devo  devandm  abhavat  purohitah,  x.  110,  11  ;  x. 
150,  4.  He  is  a  swift  (raghupatvd,™  x.  6,  4)  messenger,  moving  be- 
tween heaven  and  earth,  commissioned  both  by  gods 316  and  by  men  to 
maintain  their  mutual  communications,  to  announce  to  the  immortals 
the  hymns,  and  to  convey  to  them  the  oblations,  of  their  worshippers, 
or  to  bring  them  down  from  the  sky  to  the  place  of  sacrifice  (sa  devdn 
a  iha  vakshati  \  Agnim  dutam  vrinlmahe  \  imam  u  su  tvam  asmdkam 
sanim  gdyatram  navydmsam  Agne  deveshu  pravochah  \  devdsas  tvd  Varuno 
Mitro  Aryamd  sam  dutam  pratnam  indhate  \  duto  visdm  *asi  \  patir  hi 
adhvaranam  Agne  duto  visdm  asi  \  yad  devandm  mitramahah  purohiio 
'ntaro  ydsi  dutyam  \  tvdm  dutam  aratim  havyavdham  devdh  akrinvann 
amritasya  ndbhim  \  imam  no  yajnam  amriteshu  dhehi  \  antar  lyase  arushd 
yujdno  yushmdms  cha  devdn  visah  d  cha  martdn  \  tvdm  Agne  samidhdnam 
yavishthya  devdh  dutam  chakrire  havyavdhanam  \  tvdm  visve  sajoshasah 
devdso  dutam  akrata  \  tvdm  dutam  Agne  amritam  yuge  yuge  dadhire 


314  His  father  begot  Mm  (janita  tva  jajana)  to  be  the  revelation  and  brilliant 
banner  of  all  sacrifices.    With  the  phrase,  janita  tva  jajana,  compare  the  expressions 
in  x.  20,  9,  also  relating  to  Agni,  and  in  iv.  17,  4,  relating  to  Indra. 

315  Compare  the  raghuvartanim  ratham  of  the  As'vins,  R.V.  viii.  9,  8. 

316  Taitt.  Sanh.  ii.  5,  8,  5.  Agnir  devanam  dutah  asid  Uxana  Eavyo  'suranam  \ 
"Agni  was  the  messenger  of  the  gods  Kavya  Us  anas  of  the  asuras."     Ibid.  ii.  5y 
11,  8.  Agnir  devanam  dutah  asid  Daivyo  'suranam  \  "Agni  was  the  messsenger  of 
the  gods,  Daivya  of  the  Asuras."     Taitt.  Br.  ii.  4,  1,  6.  a  tantum  Agnir  divyam 
tatana  \  tvam  nas  tantur  uta  setwc  Agne  \  tvam  panthah  bhavasi  devayanah  \  tvaya 
Agne prishtham  vayam  aruhema  \  atha  devaih  sadhamadam  madetna  \  "Agni  stretched 
out  the  celestial  bond ;  thou  art  our  bond  and  our  bridge,  o  Agni ;  thou  art  the  path 
leading  to  the  gods.    By  thee  may  we  ascend  to  the  summit  of  heaven,  and  live  in 
hilarity  among  the  goda." 


202  FUNCTIONS  OF  AGNI. 

pdyum  ugram  devdsas  cha  martdsas  chajdgrwim  vibhum  vispatim  namasd 
ni  shedire  \  devdn  d  sddayad  iha  \  duto  devdndm  asi  martydndm  antar 
mahdms  charasi  rochanena  yam  tva,  devdh  dadhire  havyai'dham  purmpriho 
mdnushdso  yajatram  \  i.  12,  1,  2,4,  8 ;  i.  27,  4  ;  i.  36,  3,  4,  5  ;  i.  44,  2, 

3,  5,  9,  12 ;  i.  58,  1  ;  i.  74,  4,  7 ;  i.  188,  1 ;  ii.  6,  6,  7 ;  ii.  9,  2 ;  ii.  10,  6  ; 
iii.  5,  2;  iii.  6,  5;  iii.  9,  8  ;  iii.  11,  2;  iii.  17,  4;  iii.  21,  1,  5  ;  iv.  1, 
8;    iv.  2,  3;  ,iv.  7,  8;    iv.  8,  2,  4 ;  (1v.  8,  6;    v.  21,  3;    vi.  15,  8-10; 
vii.  11,  4;    vii.  16,  4;   vii.  17,  6;   viii.  19,  21  ;  viii.  23,  18,  19  ;  viii. 
39,  1,  9;    viii.   44,  3;    x.   4,  2 ;    x.   46,  10;    x.   91,  11;    x.   122,  7). 
Being  acquainted  with  the  innermost  recesses  of  the  sky  (iv.  8,  2.  Sa 
hi'veda  vasu-dhitim  mahdn  drodhanam  divah  \  sa  devdn  d  iha  vakshati  \ 

4.  Sa  hotd  sa  id  u  duty  am  chikilvdn  antar  lyate  \ ),  he  is  well  fitted  to 
act  as  the  herald  of  men  to  summon  the  gods  to  the  sacrifices  instituted 
in  their  honour.     He  comes  with  them  seated  on  the  same  car  (iii.  4, 
11 ;  vii.  11, 1,  a  visvelhih  saratham  ydhi  devaih],  or  in  advance  of  them 
(d  devdndm  agraydvd  iha  ydtu  \  x.  70,  2) ;  and  shares  in  the  reverence 
and  adoration  which  they  receive  (i.  36,  4 ;  ii.  2,  1).    He  brings  Varuna 
to  the  ceremony,  Indra  from  the  sky,  the  Maruts  from  the  air  (x.  70, 
11,  d  Agne  vaha  Varunam  ishtaye  nah  Indram  divo  Maruto  antar  ikshaf}. 
He  makes  the  oblations  fragrant,  x.  15,  12  =  Yaj.  S.  xix.  66  (Tvam 
Agne   llito  jdtavedo   avdd  havydni  surabhlni   kritvl}.     Without  him 
the  gods  experience  no  satisfaction  (vii.  11,  1,  na  rite  tvad  amritdh 
mddayante).     He  himself  offers  them  worship  (vii.  11,  3  ;  viii.  91, 
16  ;   x.  7,   6).      He  is  sometimes  described  as  the  mouth  and  the 
tongue  through  which  both  gods  and  men  participate  in  the  sacri- 
fices (ii.  1,  13.  tvdm  Agne  dditydsah  dsyam  tvdm  jihvdm  suchayas  cha- 
krire  leave  \  14.  Tve  Agne  visve  amritdsah  adruhah  dsd  devdh  havir  adanti 
dhutam  \  tvayd  martdsah  svadante  dsutim).     He  is  elsewhere  asked  to 
eat  the  offerings  himself  (iii.  21,  1  ff. ;  iii.  28, 1-6.  Agne  vlhi  puroldsam 
dhutam),  and  invited  to  drink  the  soma-juice  (i.  14,  10;  i.  19,  9;  i. 
21,  1,  3.  Visvelhih  somyam  madhu  Agne  Indrena  Vdyund  pila). 

*  The  51st  hymn  of  the  tenth  book  contains  a  dialogue  between  Agni 
and  the  other  gods,  in  which  they  give  utterance  to  their  desire  that 
he  would  come  forth  from  his  dark  place  of  concealment  in  the  waters 
and  the  plants,  and  seek  to  persuade  him  to  appear  and  convey  to  them 
the  customary  oblations  (verse  5  :  ehi  manur  devayur  yajnalcdmo  aran- 
kritya  tamasi  ksheshi  Agne  \  sugdn  pathah  krinuhi  devaydndn  vaha  hav- 


FUNCTIONS  OF  AGNI.  203 

ydni  sumanasyamdnah').  After  he  has  expressed  the  grounds  of  his 
reluctance  and  apprehension  (verses  4,  6),317  he  is  induced  by  the  pro- 
mise of  long  life  and  a  share  in  the  sacrifice  to  accede  to  their  request 
(verse  6.  Kurmas  te  dyur  ajaram  yad  Ague  yatha  yukto  jdtavedo  na 
rishydh  \  atha  vahdsi  sumanasyamdno  Ihdgam  devebhyo  hamshah  sujdta), 
In  the  next  following  hymn  (the  52nd)  Agni  proclaims  himself  the 
master  of  the  ceremojues,  declare*  himself  ready  to  obey  the  commands 
of  the  gods,  solicits  a  share  in  the  sacrifice  for  himself,  and  asks  how 
and  by  what  path  he  can  bring  them  the  oblations  (verse  1 .  Visve  devdh 
sdstana  ma  yatha  iha  hotd  vrito  manavai  yan  nishadya  \  pra  me  Iruta 
Ihdgadheyam  yatha  vo  yena  pathd  havyam  vo  vahdni  \  2.  Aham  hotd  ni 
asldam  yajiydn  visve  maruto  md  junanti),  Agni  is  the  lord,  protector, 
and  leader  of  the  people,  vispati,  visdm  gopd,  visdm  puraetd  (i.  12,  2 ; 
i.  26,  7 ;  i.  31,  11 ;  i.  96,  4 ;  ii.  1,  8  ;  iii.  11,  5) ;  the  king  or  monarch 
of  men  (rdj'd  krishtlndm  asi  mdnushmdm  \  rdjdnam  \  samrdjam  char- 
shanlndm  \  visdm  rdjanam  \  i.  59,  5  ;  ii.  1,  8 ;  iii.  10,  1 ;  v.  4,  1  ;  vi. 
7,  1 ;  vii.  8,  1 ;  viii.  43,  24).  He  is  also  the  lord  of  the  house,  griha- 
pati,  dwelling  in  every  abode  (yahpancha  charshanlr  alhi  ni  shasdda  dame 
dame  kavir  grihapatir  yuvd  \  i.  12,  6 ;  i.  36,  5 ;  i.  60,  4 ;  v.  8,  2 ;  vii. 
15,  2).  He  is  a  brilliant  guest  in  every  house ;  dwells  In  every  wood 

317  Verse  6  is  as  follows :  Agneh  purve  bhrataro  artham  etam  ratJitvadhvanam  anu 
avarivuh  \  tasmad  bhiya  Varuna  duram  ayam  gauro  na  kshepnor  avijejyayah  \  "Agni's 
former  brothers  have  sought  this  goal,  as  a  charioteer  passes  along  a  road.  But 
fearing  this  journey,  o  Varuna,  I  went  to  a  distant  place,  and  trembled  like  a  wild  bull 
which  quakes  at  the  sound  of  the  huntsman's  bowstring."  It  is  clear  from  verse  7, 
that  Agni  means  that  his  brothers  had  never  returned,  and  that  he  fears  a  similar 
fate.  The  following  passage  of  the  Tait.  Sanh.,  ii.  6,  6,  1,  seema  to  be  founded  on  this 
verse:  Agnes  trayo  jyayamso  bhratarah  asan  \  te  devebhyo  havyam '\>ahantah pranii- 
yanta  \  so  'gnir  abibhed  ittham  vava  sya  artim  arish-yati  iti  sa  nilayata  \  so  'pah 
pravisat  \  tarn  devatah  praisham  aiehhan  \  tarn  matsyah  prabravlt  \  tarn  as'apad 
"  dhiyadhiya  tva  vadhyasur  yo  ma  pravochah  "  iti  \  tasmad  matsyam  dhiyadhiya 
ghnanti  \  saptah  hi  \  tarn  anvavindan  \  tarn  abruvann  "  upa  nah  avarttasva  havyam 
no  vaha"  iti  \  so  'bravld  "varam  vrinai  yad  eva  grihttasya  ahutasya  bahihparidhi 
skandat  tan  me  bhratrlnam  bhagadheyam  asad"  iti  \  "Agni  had  three  elder  brothers, 
who  died  while  carrying  oblations  to  the  gods.  Agni  feared  lest  he  should  incur  tie 
same  fate,  and  accordingly  he  disappeared,  and  entered  into  the  waters.  The  gods 
sought  to  discover  Mm.  A  fish  pointed  him  out.  Agni  cursed  the  fish, — '  Since 
thou  hast  pointed  me  out,  may  men  slay  thee  whenever  they  will.'  Men  in  conse- 
quence slay  a  fish  at  their  pleasure,  becausa  it  was  cursed.  (The  gods)  found  Agni, 
and  said  to  him,  '  Come  to  us  and  bring  us  our  oblations.'  He  replied,  '  Let  me  ask 
a  favour ;  let  whatever  part  of  the  presented  oblations  falls  outside  of  the  sacred 
enclosure  be  the  share  of  my  brothers.'  " 


204  BIRTHS  AND  TEIPLE  EXISTENCE  OF  AGNI. 

like  a  bird ;  friendly  to  mankind,  he  despises  no  man  ;  kindly  disposed 
to  the  people,  he  lives  in  the  midst  of  every  family,  x.  91,  2  (sa  darsa- 
tairlr  atithir  grihe  grihe  vane  vane  sisriye  takvavlr  iva  \  janam  janam 
janyo  ndtimanyate  viiah  a  ksheti  visyo  visam  vi&am).  He  is  a  father, 
mother,  brother,  son,  kinsman,  and  friend  (a  hi  sma  sunave  pita  dpir 
yajati  dpaye  sakhd  sakhye  varenyah  \  tvam  pita  '«»'  nas  tvam  vayaskrit 
tavajdmayo  vayam  \  tvam  jdmir  jandn&m  Agne  mitro,  asi  priya h  \  sakha 
sakhibhyah  idyah  \  tvam  Agne  pitaram  ishtibhir  nardh  tvam  bhrdtrdya 
samyd  tanurucham  \  tvam  putro  bhavasi  yas  te  'vidhat  \  pita  mdtd  sadam 
in  mdnushdndm  \  Agne  bhrdtah  \  Agnim  manye  pitaram  Agnim  dpim 
Agnim  bhrdtaram  sadam  it  sakhdyam  \  i.  26,  3  ;  i.  31,  10,  14,  16 ;  i.  75,  4 ; 
i.  161,  1;  ii.  1,  9 ;  vi.  1,  5;  v.  4,  2 ;  viii.  43,  16  ;  viii.  64,  16  ;  x.  7, 3);  and 
some  of  his  worshippers  claim  with  him  a  hereditary  friendship  (i.  71, 
10.  Md  no  Agne  sakhyd  pitrydni  pra  marshishthdh}.  He  drives  away 
and  destroys  Rakshases  or  Asuras  (bddhasva  Avisho  rakshaso  amlvdh  \ 
pra  Agnaye  visvasuche  dhiyamdhe  asuraghne  \  Agnih  rakshdmsi  sedhati  \ 
iii.  15,  1 ;  vii.  13,  1 ;  vii.  15,  10;  <viii.  23,  13 ;  viii.  43,  26;  x.  87,  1  ; 
x.  187,  3).  In  hymn  x.  87,  he  is  invoked  to  protect  the  sacrifice 
(verse  9.  tlkshnena  Agne  chakshushd  raksha  yajnam],  and  to  consume 
the  Eakshases'  and  Yatudhanas  with  his  iron  teeth  and  by  the  most 
terrible  manifestations  of  his  fury  (verse  2.  Ayodamshtro  archishd  ydtu- 
dhdndn  upa  sprisa  jdtavedah  samiddhah  \  verse  5.  Agne  tvacham  ydtu- 
dhanasya  bhindhi  himsrd  'sanir  harasd  hantu  enam  \  verse  14.  Para  sri- 
nlhi  tapasd  ydtudhdndn  pard  'gne  raksho  harasd  srimhi  |). 

(2)  Agnfs  births,  and  triple  existence. 

Various,  though  not  nacessarily  inconsistent,  accounts  are  given  in 
the  hymns  of  the  birth  of  Agni.  Sometimes  a  divine  origin  is  ascribed 
to  him,  while  at  other  times  his  production,  or  at  least  his  mani- 
festation, is  ascribed  to  the  use  of  the  ordinary  human  appliances. 
Thus  he  is  said  to  have  at  first  existed  potentially  but  not  actually  in 
the  sky,  x.  5,  7  (quoted  above  in  p.  51);  to  have  been  brought  from 
the  sky,  or  from  afar,  by  Matarisvan 318  (a  any  am  [Agnirh]  divo  Mata- 

318  In  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon,  s.v.  Matarisvan  is  said  (1)  to  denote  a  divine 
being,  who,  as  the  messenger  of  Vivasvat,  brings  down  from  heaven  to  the  Bhrigus 
Agni,  who  had  before  been  concealed ;  and  (2)  to  be  a  secret  name  of  Agni ;  and  it 
is  remarked  that  the  word  cannot  be  certainly  shewn  by  any  text  to  be  in  the  Vedic 


BIRTHS  AND  TRIPLE  EXISTENCE  OF  AGNI.  205 

riivajabhara  \  sa  jdyamdnah  parame  vyomani  dvir  Agnir  abhavan  Mata- 
risvane  \  i.  60,  1 ;  i.  93,  6;  i.  143,  2  ;  iii.  5,  10 ;  iii.  9,  5 ;  vi.  8,  4); 
to  have  been  generated  by  Indra  between  two  clouds  or  stones  (yo 
asmanor  antar  agnim  jajdna,  ii.  12,  3) ;  to  have  been  generated  by 
Dyaus,  x.  45,  8  (Agnir  amrito  alhavad  vayobhir  yad  enafh  Dyaur  janayat 
suretdh}  •  to  be  the  son  of  Dyaus  and  Prithivi,  iii.  2,  2 ;  iii.  25,  1  (Ague 
Divah  sunur  asi  prachetas  tana  Pyithivydh  uta  visvaveddh] ;  x.  1,  2  ;  x. 
2,  7  (yam  tvd  Dydvaprithivl  yam  tvd  dpas  ffiashtd  yam  tvd  mja  nimd 
jajdna];  x.  140,  2;  whom  he  magnified,  or  delighted,  at  [or  by]  his  birth, 
iii.  3, 1 1  (ulhdpitard  mahayann  ajdyata  Agnir  Dydvdprithivl  bhuriretasa], 
His  production  is  also  said  to  be  due  to  the  waters  (x.  2,  7;  x.  91,  6),319 
and  to  Tvashtri  (i.  95,  2  ;  x.  2,  7).  He  is  elsewhere  said  to  have  been 
generated  by  the  Dawns,  vii.  78,  3  ([  Ushaso]  ajyanan  suryam  Yajnam 
Agnim] ;  by  Indra  and  Vishnu,  vii.  99,  4  (§_Indrdvishnu~\  urum  Yajndya 
chathathur  u  lokam  janayanta  Suryam  Ushasam  Agnim] ;  generated  or 


hymns,  a  synonyme  of  Vayu.  I  add  some. observations  on  the  same  subject,  which 
had  been  made  at  an  earlier  period  by  Professor  Roth,  in  his  illustrations  of  the 
Nirukta,  p.  112,  where  he  is  elucidating  R.V.  vi.  8,  4  ("  Mataris'van,  the  messenger 
of  Vivasvat,  brought  Agni  VaisVanara  from  afar")  :  "The  explanation  of  Mataris'- 
van as  Vayu"  (which  is  given  «by  Yaska)  "cannot  be  justified  bylhe  Vedic  texts, 
and  rests  only  upon  the  etymology  of  the  root  svas.  The  numerous  passages  where 
the  word  is  mentioned  in  the  Rig-veda  exhibit  it  in  two  senses.  Sometimes  it  denotes 
Agni  himself,  as  in  the  texts  i.  96,  3,  4;  iii.  29,  4  (11  ?) ;  x.  114,  1,  etc. ;  at  other 
times,  the  being  who,  as  another  Prometheus,  fetches  down  from  heaven,  from  the 
gods,  the  fire  which  had  vanished  from  the  sarth,  and  brings  it  to  the  Bhrigus, 
i.  60,  1 ;  i.  93,  6 ;  iii.  2,  13 ;  iii.  5,  10  ;  iii.  9,  5.  To  think  of  this  bringer  of  fire 
as  a  man,  as  a  sage  of  antiquity,  who  had  laid  hold  of  the  lightning,  and  placed  it 
on  the  altar  and  the  hearth,  is  forbidden  by  those  texts  which  speak  of  him  as  bring- 
ing it  from  heaven,  not  to  mention  other  grounds.  As  PrometheuS  belongs  to  the 
superhuman  class  of  Titans,  and  is  only  by  this  mean'j  enabled  to  fetch  down  the 
spark  from  heaven,  so  must  Mataris'van  be  reckoned  as  belonging  to  those  races  of 
demigods,  who,  in  the  Vedic  legends,  are  sometimes  represented  as  living  in  the 
society  of  the  gods,  and  sometimes  as  dwelling  upon  earth.  As  he  brings  the  fire  to 
the  Bhrigus,  it  is  said  of  these  last,  that  they  have  communicated  fire  to  men  (e.g.,  in 
i.  58,  6),  and  Agni  is  called  the  son  of  Bhrigu  (Bhrigavana).  Mataris'van  also 
must  be  reckoned  as  belonging  to  this  half-divine  race."  .  ..."  It  may  also  be  men- 
tioned that  the  same  function  of  bringing  down  fire  is  ascribed  in  one  text  (vi.  16, 
13)  to  Atharvan,  whose  name  is  connected  with  fire,  like  that  of  Matarisvan ;  and  also 
that  the  sisters  of  Atharvan  are  ^called  Matarisvarls  in  x.  120,  9."  See  my  article 
on  Manu  in  vol.  xx.  of  the  Journ.  R.A.S.,  p.  416,  note.  In  one  place  (vii.  15,  4) 
Agni  is  called  the  falcon  of  the  sky  (divah  syenaya}. 

319  A.V.   i.    33,   1.    Hiranyavarnah  suchayah  pavakah  yasu  jatah  Savita   yasu 
Agnih  \  yah  Agriiih  garbhani  dadhire  suvarnas  tah  nah  apah  sam  syonah  bhavantu. 


206  BIRTHS  AND  TRIPLE  EXISTENCE  OF  AGNI. 

fashioned  by  the  gods,  vi.  7,  1  f.  (janayanta  devdh}',  viii.  91,  17  (tarn 
tvd  'jananta  mdtarah  kavim  devdso  angirah) ;  x.  46,  9  (devds  tatakshur 
manave  yajatram) ;  as  a  light  to  the  Arya,  i.  59,  2  (tarn  tvd  devdso  jana- 
yanta devam  vaisvdnara  jyotir  id  drydya) ;  or  placed  by  the  gods  among 
the  descendants  of  Manu,  i.  36,  10;  ii.  4,  3  (Agnim  devdso  mdnushishu 
vikshu  priyam  dhuh  ksheshyanto  na  mitram) ;  vi.  16,  1 ;  viii.  73,  2. 
Yet  although  the  son,  he  is  also  |;he  father  of  the  gods,  i.  69,  1 
(Ihuvo  devdndm  pita  putr<0h  san).  In  viii.  19,  33,  the  superiority  of 
the  Fire-god  to  all  other  fires  is  shewn  by  their  being  declared  to  be 
dependent  on  him  like  branches  of  a  tree  (yasya  te  Agne  anye  agnayah 
upakshito  vaydh  iva) ;  vii.  1,  14  (sa  id  Agnir  agriin  ati  asti  anydn). 

Agni  is  in  some  passages  represented  as  having  a  triple  existence,  by 
which  may  be  intended  his  threefold  manifestations,  as  the  sun  in 
heaven,  as  lightning  in  the  atmosphere,  and  as  ordinary  fire  in  the 
earth,  although  the  three  appearances  are  elsewhere  otherwise  explained. 
In  x.  88,  we  have  the  following  verses : 

6  (=  Mr.  vii.  27).  Murdhd  bhuvto  bhavati  naktam  Agnis  tatah  Suryo 
jdyate  prdtar  udyan  \  8.  Stiktavdkam  prathamam  dd  id  Agnim  dd  id 
havir  ajanayanta  devdh  \  sa  eshdm  yajno  abhavat  tanupds  tarn  Dyaur 
veda  tarn  Pruhivl  tarn  dpah  \  10  (=  Mr.  vii.  28).  Stomena  hi  divi 
devdso  Agnim  ajljanan  saktibhih  rodasipram  \  tarn  u  akrinvan  tredhd 
bhuve  kam  sa  oshadhlh  pachati  visvarupdh  \  11  (=  Mr.  vii.  29).  Yaded 
enam  adadhur  yajniydso  divi  devdh  Saryam  dditeyam  \  yadd  charishnu 
mithundv  abhutdm  dd  it  prdpasyan  bhuvandni  visvd  \ 

"  6.  Agni  is  by  night  the  head  of  the  earth :  then  he  is  born  as 
the  Sun  rising  in  the  morning.320  8.  The  gods  produced  first  the  hymn, 
then  Agni,  then  the  oblation.  He  was  their  protecting  sacrifice  :  him 
Dyaus  knows,  him  Pritnivi,  him  the  Waters.  10.  With  a  hymn  by  their 
powers  the  gods  generated  Agni  who  fills  the  worlds :  they  formed  him 
for  a  threefold  existence :  he  ripens  plants  of  every  kind.  1 1 .  When 

330  It  appears  from  Professor  Aufrecht's  abstract  of  the  contents  of  the  Matsya- 
furana  that,  in  section  115,  the  sun  is  said  to  enter  into  Agni  during  the  night,  and 
Agni  into  the  sun  by  day.  <  Catalogne  of  Bodl.  Sanskrit  MSS.,  p.  41«.  The  Ait. 
Br.  viii.  28,  says  :  adityo  vai  astam  yann Agnim  anupravisati  \  so' ntardhlyate  \  .... 
Agnir  vai  udvan  Vayum  anupravisati  \  so  'ntardhlyate  |  .  .  .  .  Vayor  Agnir  jay  ate 
pranad  hi  balad  matfoyamano  'dhijoyate  |  . .  . .  Agner  vai  adityo  jayate  \  "  The  sun, 
when  setting,  enters  into  Agni  and  disappears  ....  Agni,  when  blowing  upwards, 
enters  Vayu,  and  disappears  ....  Agni  is  produced  from  Vayu,  for  when  attrition 
is  taking  place,  he  is  born  from  breath  as  force.  The  sun  is  produced  from  Agni." 


BIRTHS  AND  TRIPLE  EXISTENCE  OF  AGNI.  207 

the  adorable  gods  placed  him,  Surya  the  son  of  Aditi,  in  the  sky,  when 
the  moving  twins  came  into  being,  then  they  (the  gods)  beheld  all 
creatures." 

According  to  Yaska  (Nir.  vii.  27)  it  is  intended  in  verse  6  to  repre- 
sent the  sun  as  identical  with  Agni  ("tatah  suryo  jdyate  prdtar  udyan" 
m  eva).  The  same  writer  tells  us  (Nir.  vii.  28)  that  according  to  his 
predecessor  S'akapuni  the  threefold  existence  of  Agni,  referred  to  in 
verse  8,  is  his  abode  on  earth,  in  the  atmosphere,  and  in  heaven 
("  tredha  "  bhdvdya  lt  prithivydm  antarikshe  divi"  iti  S'dkapuniK),  and 
adds  that  a  Brahmana  declares  his  third  manifestation  to  be  the  Sun 
("  yad  asya  divi  tritlyam  tad  asdv  ddityah"  iti  hi  brdhmanam).  The 
constantly  moving  twins,  mentioned  in  verse  11,  are  TJshas  and  the 
Sun  according  to  Yaska  (Nir.  vii.  29.  Sarvadd  sahachdrindv  Ushds  cha 
Adityas  cha).  Agni  would  thus  be  identified  not  only  with  Surya  the 
celestial,  but  with  Indra  or  Vayu,  the  aerial  or  atmospheric  deity, 
according  to  passages  of  the  Nirukta  vii.  5,  already  quoted  in  p.  8 ; 
and  with  Vishnu,  if  we  adopt  the  interpretation  of  that  deity's  three 
steps  given  by  S'akapuni  in  Nir.  xii.  19,  as  expounded  by  the  commen- 
tator Durgacharya,  viz.  that  Vishnu  abides  on  earth  as  terrestrial  fire, 
in  the  atmosphere  in  the  form  of  lightning,  and  in  the  siy  as  the  Sun 
("Prithivydm  antarikshe  divi"  iti  S'akapilnih  \  pdrthivo  ' gnir  Ihutvd 
prithivydm  yat  kinchid  asti  tad  vikramate  tad  adhitishthati  \  antarikshe 
vaidyutdmand  divi  Surydtmana).™  In  R.V.  x.  45,  1,  =  Vaj.  S.  xii.  18, 
(see  also  verse  2)  a  threefold  origin  is  ascVibed  to  Agni,  the  first  from  the 
heaven,  the  second  from  us  (i.e.  apparently  from  the  earth),  and  the  third 
from  the  waters,  which  may  mean  the  atmosphere 322  (Divas  pari  pratha- 
mamjajne  Agnir  asmad  dvitlyam  pari  jdtaveddh  \  tritlyam  apsu}.323  The 
same  three  abodes  of  Agni  are  perhaps  referred \o 324  in  x.  56,  1  =*  S.V. 
i.  65  (idam  te  ekam  parah  u  te  ekam  tritlyena  jyotishd  sam  visasva).  In  iii. 
26,  7  (= Vaj.S.  xviii.  66),  he  is  called  arkas  tridhdtuh,  a  threefold  light,325 

321  Quoted  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  56. 

322  See  above,  p.  39,  note  73.     See  Comm.  on  Vaj.  S.  xii.  18. 

323  A.V.  xii.  1,  20.  Agnir  divah  a  tapati  Agner  devasya  uru  antariksham  \  Agnim 
martasah  indhate  havyavaham  ghritapriyam  \  "  Agni  glows  from  the  sky ;  to  Agni 
belongs  the  broad  air  ;  men  kindle^  Agni,  the  bearer  of  oblations,  the  lover  of  butter." 
Compare  A.V.  xiii.  3,  21,  and  xviii.  4,  11. 

324  So  the  Scholiast  on  the  Sama-veda  understands  the  verse,  as  I  learn  from 
Professor  Benfey's  note  to  his  translation,  p.  216. 

32s  Compare  A.V.  viii.  39,  9. 


208  BIRTHS  AND  TEIPLE  EXISTENCE  OF  AGNI. 

inv.  4^8  trishadhastha  (according  to  Sajana,=truhudivyddishu8thdne8hu 
sthito),  occupying  three  abodes,  and  in  viii.  39,  8  tripasthya,  having 
three  homes.  In  i.  95,  3,  he  is  said  to  have  three  births,  one  in  the 
ocean,  another  in  the  sky,  and  a  third  in  the  waters  (trlni  jdnd  pari- 
bhushanti  asya  samudre  ekam  dim  ekam  apsu),  which  Sayana  understands 
1st  of  the  submarine  fire  (vadavdnala'),  2nd  of  the  sun,  and  3rd  of  the 
lightning.  He  is  elsewhere  called  dvjfanman,  having  two  births,  i.  60, 
1 ;  i.  140,  2 ;  i.  149,  2,  3,  which  Sayana  explains  either  as  born  of 
the  Heaven  and  Earth,  or  from  two  sticks,  or  because  he  has  one  birth 
from  the  sticks  and  a  second  when  he  is  formally  consecrated  ;  but  is 
said  in  one  of  these  passages  to  dwell  in  the  three  lights  (abhi  ...  trl 
rochandni  .  .  .  asthdt}. 

In  ii.  9,  3,  two  places  of  birth  only  are  mentioned — an  upper 
(parame  janman),  and  a  lower  (avare  sadasthe] — which  Sayana  inter- 
prets of  the  sky  and  the  atmosphere ;  and  in  viii.  43,  28,  in  like 
manner,  only  two  are  alluded  to,  the  celestial,  and  that  in  the  waters 
(yad  Ague  divijdh  asi  apsujdh  vd\ 

In  x.  91,  6,  as  we  have  already  seen,  his  generation  is  ascribed  only 
to  the  waters,  the  mothers.  (Compare  iii.  1,3;  iii.  9,  4.) 

In  A.Y.  ii.  39,  2,  the  earth  is  said  to  be  a  cow,  and  Agni  her  calf 
(Prithivl  dhenus  tasydh  Agnir  vatsah').  In  verses  4  and  6,  Vayu  is 
said  to  be  the  calf  of  the  air,  and  Surya  of  the  sky. 

In  different  passages  the  process  of  friction,326  by  which  the  god  is 

326  See  Aitareya  Brahmana,  i.  16,  and  Professor  Haug's  translation,  pp.  35  ff.  I 
add  here  a  sentence  or  two  from  this  work  (Ait.  Br.  i.  16)  to  illustrate  what  the  texts 
above  quoted  say  of  the  power  of  Agni  to  hallow  all  sacrifices,  although  in  the  present 
case  a  special  rfte  is  referred  to :  sa  esha  svargya  ahutir  yad  Agnyf:hutih  \  yadi  ha 
vai  apy  abrahmanokto  yadi  duruktokto  yajate  atha  ha  esha  ahutir  gachhaty  eva  devan 
na  papmana  samsrijyate  \  "  The  Agni  oblation  is  that  which  conducts  to  heaven. 
Even  if  a  man  who  is  called  a  no-Brahman,  or  a  person  of  bad  reputation,  perform  it, 
still  this  oblation  goes  to  the  gods,  and  is  unaffected  by  the  sin  (of  the  performer)." 
See  Professor  Haug's  translation,  p.  38,  note  17.  The  S'atapatha  Bramana,  ii.  3,  3, 1, 
relates  that  Agni,  when  created  by  Prajapati,  began  to  burn  everything,  and  threw 
the  world  into  confusion.  Thereupon  the  creatures  who  then  existed  sought  to  crush 
him.  Not  being  able  to  bear  this,  he  came  to  a  man  and  said,  "I  cannot  endure 
this ;  let  me  enter  into  thee. '  Having  generated  me,  nurse  me  ;  and  if  thou  wilt  do 
this  for  me  in  this  world,  I  will  do  the  same  for  t,hee  in  the  next.  The  man  agreed 
(sa  yatra  Agnim  sasrije  sa  idam  jdtah  sarvam  eva  dagdhum  dadhre  \  ity  eva  avilam 
eva  |  tah  yas  tar  hi  prajah  asus  tah  ha  enaih  sampeshtuih  dadhrire  \  so  '  titikshama- 
nah purmham  eva  abhyeyaya  \  2.  Sa  ha  uvacha  "na  vai  aham  idam  titikshe  hanta 
tva  pravisani  \  tarn  ma  janayitva  bibhrihi  \  sa  yathaiva  mam  tvam  asmin  lokejana- 


BIRTHS  AND  TRIPLE  EXISTENCE  OF  AGNI.  209 

daily  generated  by  his  worshippers,  is  described  or  alluded  to.  In 
iii.  29,  1  ff.,  it  is  said :  astldam  adhimanthanam  asti  prajananafh  Icri- 
tam  \  etdm  vispatriim  dbhara  Agnim  manthtima  purvathd  \  2.  (  =  S.V. 
i.  79)  Aranyor  nihito  jdtaveddh  garbhah  iva  sudhito  garbhinuhu  \  dive 
dive  Idyo  jdgrivadbhir  havishmadbhir  manushyebhir  Agnih  \  3.  (  =  Vaj.  S. 
xxxiv.  14)  Uttdndydm  ava  bhara  chikitvdn  sadyah  pravltti  vrishanam 
jajana  \  "This  process  of  friction,,of  generation,  has  begun;  bring  this 
mistress  of  the  people  (the  lower  arani,  or  wood  for  friction) ;  let  us  rub 
out  Agni  as  heretofore.327  2.  This  god  is  deposited  in  the  two  pieces  of 

yitva  bharishyasi  evam  eva  aham  tvam  amushmin  lake  janayitva  bharishyami"  iti  \ 
"tatha  "  iti  tarn  janayitva  abhibhah).  Herodotus,  iii.  16,  tells  us  what  the  Egyptians 
thought  of  Agni :  PHyvTrrioiai  5e  vei>6(i.iffTai  r6  irvp  Bripiov  thai  f^v\ov,  Travra.  5« 
avrb  Karea-Bieiv  rd  irep  &v  AajSp,  tr\i}ffQ\v  8e  avrb  TT)S  fZopfjs  ffvva.iroQyi]<rKeiv  T$ 

Ka.TtffdlOp.fVtf. 

327  Hence,  perhaps,  it  is  that  he  is  called  dvi-mata,  born  of  two  parents  (i.  31,  2). 
As  regards  dvi-janma  having  a  double  birth  (i.  60,  1 ;  i.  140,  2  ;  i.  149,  4,  5,)  see 
above.  He  is  also  called  bhurijanma,  having  many  births  (x.  5,  1).  In  R.V.  i.  95,  2, 
he  is  said  to  be  produced  by  the  ten  young  women,  i.e.  the  ten  fingers  (dasa  imam 
tvashtur  janayanta  garbham  atandraso  yuvatayaK).  See  Roth,  Illustrations'  of 
Nirukta,  p.  120;  Benfey's  Orient  und  Occident,  ii.  510;  and  Roth's  Lexicon,  s.vv. 
tvashtri  and  yuvati.  In  iii.  29,  3,  he  is  called  the  son  of  Ila,  whatever  sense  we 
ascribe  to  this  word.  In  regard  to  the  persons  or  families  by  whom  the  sacrificial 
fire  is  supposed  to  have  been  first  kindled,  and  the  rites  of  Aryan  worship  introduced, 
viz.,  Manu,  Angiras,  Bhrigu,  Atharvan,  Dadhyanch,  etc.,  see  my  paper  on  "Manu, 
the  progenitor  of  the  Aryan  Indians,"  in  vol.  xx.  Jdhrn.  R.A.S.,  pp.  410-416.  I 
subjoin  some  of  the  passages  there  quoted :  i.  36,  19.  Ni  tvam  Agne  manur  dadhe 
jyotir  jandya  sasvate  \  "  Manu  has  placed  thee  (here)  a  light  to  all  (generations  of) 
men."  vii.  2,  3.  Manushvad  Agnim  Manuna  sdmiddhaih  sam  adhvaraya  sadam  in 
mahema  \  "  Let  us,  like  Manu,  ever  attract  to  the  sacrifice  Agni,  who  was  kindled  by 
Manu."  x.  63,  7.  Yebhyo  hotram  prathamam  ayeje  Manur  samiddhagnir  manasa 
sapta  hotribhih  \  te  Adityah  abhayam  sarma  yachhata  |  "  0  ye  Adityas,  to  whom 
Manu,  when  he  had  lighted  Agni,  presented,  in  company  with  seven"  hotri  priests, 
with  his  heart,  the  first  oblation,  bestow  on  us  secure  protection."  x.  69,  3.  Tat  te 
Manur  yad  an/ham  Sumitrah  samUdhe  Agne  tad  idaih  navlyah  \  "  That  lustre  of 
thine,  o  Agni,  which  Manu,  which  Sumitra  kindled,  is  the  same  which  is  now 
renewed."  viii.  43,  13.  Uta  tva  Bhriguvat  suche  Manushvad  Ague  ahuta  |  Angiras- 
vad  havamahe  \  "  Like  Bhrigu,  like  Manush,  like  Angiras,  we  invoke  thee  who  hast 
been  summoned  to  blaze."  vi.  16,  13.  Tvam  Agne  pushka^.J,  adhi  Atharva  nir 
amanthata  \  14.  Tarn  u  tva  Dadhyann  rishih putrah  Idhe  Atharvanah  \  13.  "Agni,* 
Atharvan  drew  thee  forth  from  the  lotus  leaf.  14.  T^ee,  Dadhyanch,  the  son  of 
Atharvan,  kindled."  x.  21,  5.  Agnir  j'ato  Atharvana  vidad  visvani  kavya  \  bhuvad 
ditto  Vivasvatah  \  "  Agni,  produced  by  Atharvan,  knows  all  sciences.  He  has  be- 
come the  messenger  of  Vivasvat."  i.  58,  6.  Dadhush  tva  Hhrigqvo  nianusheshu  a  \ 
"  The  Bhrigus  have  placed  thee  among  men."  x.  46,  2.  Imam  vidhanto  apam 
sadasthe  pasuth  na  nashtam  padair  anu  gman  \  guha  chatantam  mijo  namobhir 
ichhanto  dhtrah  Bhrigavo  avindan  \  "Worshipping,  and  desiring  him  with  obeisances, 

14 


210  BIRTHS  AND  TRIPLE  EXISTENCE  OF  AGNI. 

wood,  as  the  embryo  in  pregnant  women.  Agni  is  daily  to  be  lauded  by 
men  bringing  oblations  and  awaking  (early).  3.  Skilled  [in  the  process], 
bring  [the  upper  piece  of  wood]  into  contact  with  the  lower,  lying 
recumbent :  being  impregnated,  she  speedily  brings  forth  the  vigorous 
(Agni)." 338  Compare  K. Y.  i.  68,  2,  where  it  is  noticed  as  remarkable 
that  a  living  being  should  spring  out  of  dry  wood  (sushkdd  yad  deva 
jlvo  janishthdh')  •  iii.  23,  2,  3  ;  vii.  1-,  1  ;  x.  49,  1,5  ;  x.  7,  5.  He  is 
produced  from  the  two  sticks  as  a  new-born  infant,  v.  9,  3  (uta  sma 
yam  sisum  yathd  navam  janishtha  aram) ;  viii.  23,  25  (sunum  vanas- 
patlndm).  Strange  to  say,  cries  the  poet,  addressing  himself  to  both 
worlds,  the  child,  as  soon  as  born,  begins  with  unnatural  voracity  to 
consume  his  parents,  and  is  altogether  beyond  his  mortal  worshipper's 
comprehension,  x.  79,  4  (tad  vdm  ritam  rodasl  prabravlmi  jdyamdno 
mdtard  garlho  atti  \  ndham  deeasya  martyas  chiketa}.  But  when  born 
he  is  like  the  wriggling  brood  of  serpents,  difficult  to  catch,  v.  9,  4 
(uta  sma  durgrilhlyase  putro  na  hvdrydndm).  Wonderful  is  his  growth, 
and  his  immediate  activity  as  a  messenger,  seeing  he  is  born  of  a 
mother  who  cannot  suckle  him,  x.  115,  1  (chitrah  it  sisos  tarunasya 
vakshatho  na  yo  mdtardv  apyeti  dhdtave  \  anudhdh  yadi  jljanad  adha 
cha  nu  vavaksha  sadya  mahi  dutyam  charan) ;  but  he  is  nourished  and 
developed  by  the  oblations  of  clarified  butter  which  are  poured  into 
his  mouth,  and  which  he  consumes,  iii.  21,  1  (stokdndm  agne  medaso 
ghritasya  hotah  prdsdna  \  "Agni,  invoker  of  the  gods,  eat  these 
portions  of  fat  and  butter;"  see  also  verses  2  and  3);  v.  11,  3 
(ghritena  tvd  avardhayan)  ;  v.  14,  6  ;  viii.  39,  3  (Agne  manmdni 
tulhyaih  Jcam  ghritam  na  juhve  dsani);  viii.  43,  10,  22;  x.  69,  1  f . ; 
x.  118,  4,  6,  and  A.V.  i.  7,  2  (Agne  tailasya  prusdna'). 

In  iii.  26,  7,  he  himself  exclaims  "  butter  is  my  eye"  (ghritam  me 
chakshuh}. 

the  wise  and  longing  Bhrigus  have  followed  him  with  their  steps,  like  a  lost  animal, 
,,and  have  found  him  concealed  in  the  receptacle  of  the  waters."     In  viii.  23,  17. 
Kavya  U.s'anas  is  said  to  have  established  Agni  to  be  a  priest  for  men  ( Usana  Kavyas 
tva  ni  hotaram  asadayat  \  ftyajim  tva  manavejatavedasarn}. 

32:3  The  ancient  Indians  regarded  the  upper  piece  of  wood  as  the  male,  and  the 
lower  as  the  female,  factors  in  the  generation  of  Agni.  See  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work, 
p.  46,  note  52.  ' 


EPITHETS  AND  CHARACTERISTICS  OF  AGNI.  211 


(3)  His  epithets  and  characteristics. 

His  epithets  are  various,  and  for  the  most  part  descriptive  of  his 
physical  characteristics.     He  is  sarpirdsuti,  ghritdnna,  butter-fed  (ii. 
7,  6;    vii.  3,  1;    x.  69,  2)  ; ,  ghrita-nirnik,  butter-formed  (iii.  17,   1; 
iii.  27,  5;  x.  122,  2);  ghrita-kesa,  butter-haired  (viii.  49,  2);  ghrita- 
prishtha,   butter-backed  (v.  4,*3;    v.   37,  1;    vii.  2,  4;    x.   122,  4); 
ghritapratlka,  gleaming  with  butter  (iii.  1,  18  ;  v.  11,  1 ;  x.  21,  7) ; 
ghrita-yoni,  issuing  from  butter  (v.  8,  6,  compare  ii.  3,  11);  drvanna, 
fed  by  wood  (ii.  7,  6) ;  dhuma-ketu,  having  smoke  for  his  mark,  signal, 
or  ensign  (i.  27,  11 ;    i.  44,  3  ;   i.  94,  10;  v.  11,  3;  viii.  43,  4;  viii. 
44,  10;  x.  4,  5  ;  x.  12,  2) ;  he  sends  up  his  smoke  like  a  pillar  to  the 
sky,  iv.  6,  2  (metd  iva  dhumam  stabhdyad  upa  dydm)  •    vii.  2.  1  (upa 
sprisa    divyam    sdnu   stupaih]  ;    vii.   3,  3 ;    vii.   16,  3  (ud  dhumdso 
arushdso  divisprisah  [asthuh~\ ;  his  smoke  is  waving,  his  flame  cannot 
be   seized,  viii.  23,    1    (charishnudhumam    agribhltasochisham) ;    he    is 
driven  by  the  wind,  and  rushes  through  the  woods  like  a  bull  lording 
it  over  a  herd  of  cows,  i.  58,  4,  5  (vane  d  vdtachodito  yuthe  na  sdhvdn 
ava  vati  vamsagah] ;  i.  65,  8.     He  is  a  destroyer  of  darkness,  i.  140,  1 
(tamohari],  and  sees  through  the  gloom  of  the  night,  i.  94,  7  (rdtryaS 
chid  andho  ati  deva  pasyasi].    The  world,  which  had  been  swallowed  up 
and  enveloped  in  darkness,  and  the   heavens,  are  manifested  at  his 
appearance,  and  the  gods,  the  sky,  th,e  earth,  the  waters,  the  plants 
rejoice  in  his  friendship,  x.  88,  2  (glrnam  bhuvanam  tamasd  'pagulham 
avih  svar  abhavaj  jute  Agnau  \  tasya  devdh  prithivl  dyaur  uldpo  arana- 
yann  oshadhih  sakhye  asya}.     He  is  chitra-bhdnu,  chitra^ochih,  of  bril- 
liant lustre  or  blaze  (i.  27,  6  ;   ii.  10,  2  ;   v.  £6,  2 ;   vi.  10,  3  ;  vii.  9, 
3;    vii.  12,  1  ;    viii.  19,  2),  urdhva-sochis,  upward-flaming  (vi.  15,  2), 
iukra-iochih,    bright  -  flaming    (vii.   15,    10;     viii.    23,    20),  pavalca- 
6ochis,329  with    clear   flames    (viii.  43,  31),    Sukra-varna,  suchi-varna, 
bright  coloured  (i,  140,   1  ;   v.  2,  3),  sochishkesa,  with  blazing  hair 

s29  Agni  is  also  styled  s'lrasochis  in  viii:  60,  10  (  =  6.V.  ii.  904),  14  (  =  S.V.  i.  49), 
and  s'ira  in  viii.  43,  31.  On  the  last  place  Sayana  explains  6tra  as  sleeping  or  lying 
in  the  sacrifices  (yajneshu  sayanctyasilam).  On  viii.  60,  10,  he  makes  the  compound 
word  =  asana-s'tla-jvalam,  "  he  whose  flame  pervades."  On  the  14th  verse  he  takes 
it  as  =  sayana-svabhava-rochishkam,  "he  whose  brilliance  has  the  character  of  lying 
or  sleeping."  In  both  places  Professor  Benfey  renders  it  "  gleaming  like  lightning." 
Professor  Roth,  Illustr.  of  ftir.,  p.  42,  thinks  s/ra  may  mean  "  piercing." 


212  EPITHETS  AND  CHARACTERISTICS  OF  AGNI. 

(i.  45,  6;  iii.  14,  1;  iii.  17,  1;  iii.  27,4;  v.  8,2;  v.  41,  10), 
hari-kesa,  'with  tawny  hair  (iii.  2,  13),  golden-formed  (iv.  3,  1 ;  x. 
20,  9,  hiranya-rupam  janitd  jajdna],  and  hiri-smasru,  with  golden 
beard  (v.  7,  7).  He  carries  sharp  weapons,  tigmaheti,  tigmabhrishti 
(iv.  4,  4;  iv.  5,  3),  he  has  sharp  teeth,  tigmajambha  (i.  79,  6  ;  i.  143, 
5;  iv.  5,  4;  iv.  15,  5  ;  viii.  19,  22),  burning  teeth,  tapurjambha 
(i.  58,  5 ;  viii.  23,  4),  brilliant  teeth,  tuchidant  (v.  7,  7),  golden  teeth, 
hiranyadant  (v.  2,  3),  iron  grinders,  ayodamshtra  (x.  87,  2),  and  sharp 
and  consuming  jaws  (viii.  49,  13  ;  x.  79,  1  (tigmdh  asya  hanavah  \ 
ndnd  hanu  vibhrite  sam  bharete  asinvatl  bapsail  Ihuri  attaK).  Accord- 
ing to  one  passage,  he  is  footless  and  headless  (apdd  aslrshd,  iv.  1,  11), 
and  yet  he  is  elsewhere  said  to  have  a  burning  head,  tapurmurdhd 
(vii.  3,  1),  three  heads  and  seven  rays,  trimurdhdnam  saptarasmim 
(i.  146,  1 ;  ii.  5,  2),  to  be  four-eyed,  chaturaksha  (i.  31,  13),  thousand- 
eyed,  sahasrdksha  (i.  79,  12),  and  thousand-horned,  sahasrasringa 
(v.  1,  8).330  He  is  krishnddhvan,  krishnavarttani,  krishna-pavi,  i.e.  his 
path  and  his  wheels  are  marked  by  blackness  (ii.  4,  6;  vi.  10,  4;  vii. 
8,  2  ;  viii.  23,  19) ;  he  envelopes  the  woods,  consumes  and  blackens 
them  with  his  tongue  (i.  143,  5;  v.  41,  10;  vi.  60,  10,  archishd  vand 
visvd  parishvajat  \  krishnd  karoti  jihvayd] ;  x.  79,  2,  asinvann  atti 
jihvayd  vandni} ;  he  is  all -devouring,  visvdd  (viii.  44,  26) ;  driven  by 
the  wind,  he  invades  the  forests,  and  shears  the  hairs  of  the  earth, 
i.  65,  4  (ibhydn  na  rdjd  vandni  atti  \  yad  vdtajuto  vand  vi  asthdd  Agnir 
ha  ddti  romd  prithivydh],  like  a  barber  shaving  a  beard,  x.  142,  4 
(yadd  te  vdto  anuvdti  sochir  vapteva  smasru  vapasi  pra  bhuma].  He 
causes  terror^  like  an  army  let  loose,  i.  66,  8  (seneva  srishtd  amarh 
dadhdti] ;  i.  143,  5  ;  x.  142,  4  (yad  udvato  nivato  ydsi  bapsat  priihag 
eshi  pragardhiriiva  send].  His  flames  roar  like  the  waves  of  the  sea, 
i.  44,  12  (yad  devdndm  mitramahah  purohitao  antaro  ydsi  dutyam  \ 
sindhor  iva  prasvanitdsah  urmayo  Agner  Ihrdjante  arcliayali).  He  sounds 
like  thunder,  vii.  3,  6  (divo  na  te  tanyatur  eti  sushmaK)  ;  x.  45,  4 
(akrandad  Agnih  stanayann  iva  Dyauh331) ;  viii.  91,  5;  he  roars  like 

330  In  one  place  (viii.  19,  32)' Agni  is  called  sahasra-mushka,  which  the  commentator 
explains  by  bahu-tejaska,  having  many  flames.  The  same  epithet  is,  as  we  have 
seen,  applied  in  R.V.  vi.  46,  3,  to  Indra,  where  Sayana  makes  it  equivalent  to  sahasra- 
s'epha,  mille  memhra  genitalia  habens. 

531  It  is  to  be  observed  that  in  this  passage  Dyaus,  and  not  Indra,  is  described  as  the 
thunderer.  See  above  p.  118  f.,  the  reference  to  the  question  whether  Dyaus  had 
been  superseded  by  Indra. 


EPITHETS  AND  CHARACTERISTICS  OF  AGNL  213 

the  wind,  ibid,  (huve  vdtasvanam  Icavim  Parjanya-krandyam  sahah  \ 
Agnim  samudravdsasam 332) ;  like  a  lion,  iii.  2,11  (ndnadan  na  simhah] ; 
and  when  he  has  yoked  his  red,  wind-driven  horses  to  his  car,  he 
bellows  like  a  bull,  and  invades  the  forest-trees  with  his  flames ;  the 
birds  are  terrified  at  the  noise  when  his  grass-devouring  sparks  arise, 
i.  94,  10  (yad  ayukthdh  arushd  rohitd  rathe  vdtajutd  vrishabhasyeva  te 
ravah  \  ad  invasi  yanino  dhumaleelund  \  11.  Adha  svandd  uta  bibhyuh 
patatrino  drapsdh  yat  te  yavasddo  vi  asthiran).  He  is  resistless  as  the 
resounding  Maruts,  and  as  the  lightnings  of  heaven,  i.  143,  5  (na  yo 
vardya  Marutdm  iva  svanah  seneva  srishtd  divyd  yathd  'saniK).  He  has 
a  hundred  manifestations,  and  shines  like  the  sun,  i.  149,  3  (euro  na 
rurukvdn  satdtma)  ;  vii.  3,  6.  His  lustre  is  like  the  rays  of  the  dawn 
and  the  sun,  x.  91,  4  (d  te  chikitre  ushasdm  iva  etayah  arepasah  suryas- 
yeva  rasmayah],  and  like  the  lightnings  of  the  rain-cloud,  ibid.  5  (  =  S.V. 
ii.  332,  tava  iriyo  varshyasyeva  vidyutaK) ;  and  he  is  borne  on  a  chariot 
of  lightning,  iii.  14,  1  (vidyudratha),  on  a  luminous  car,  i.  140,  1 
(jyotlratha),333  i.  141,  12  (chandravatha} ;  iii.  5,  3  ;  v.  1.  11  (a  adya 
ratham  bhdnumo  bhdnumantam  Agne  tishtha) ;  on  a  brilliant,  x.  1,  5 
(chitraratha),  golden,  iv.  1,  8  (hiranyaratha),  on  an  excellent  or 
beautiful  car,  iii.  3,  9  (sumadratha}  ;  iv.  2,  4  (suratha*). '  This  chariot 
is  drawn  by  horses  or  mares  characterized  as  butter-backed  (ghrita- 
prishtha),  wind-impelled  (vdtajuta),  beautiful  (svasva),  ruddy  (rohit\ 
tawny  (arusha),  active  (jlrdsva},  assuming  all  forms  (yisvarupa\  and 
mind-yoked  (manoyuj\  and  by  other  epithets  (i.  14,  6,  12  ;  1.  45,  2  . 
i.  94,  10;  i.  141,  12  ;  ii.  4,  2;  ii.  10,  2  ;  iv.  1,  8  ;  iv.  2,  2,  4  ;' 
iv.  6,  9  (rijumusJika !}  ;  vi.  16,  43;  vii.  16,  2;  viii.  43,  16;  x.  7,  4 ; 
x.  70,  2  f.),  which  he  yokes  in  order  to  summon  the  gods,  i.  14,  12 
(tdbhir  devdn  ihdvaha] ;  iii.  6,  6  (ritasya  vd  kesind  yogydbhir  ghritas- 
nuvd  rohitd  dhuri  dhishva  \  athdvaha  devdn  deva  vidvdn  \  9.  A  ebhir 
[devaih~\  Agne  saratham  ydhi  arvdn) ;  viii.  64,  1  (yukshd  hi  devahuta- 
mdn  asvdn  Agne  rathlr  iva). 

332  Here  it  will  be  noted,  he  is  also  said  "  to  be  clotted  with,  or  enveloped  by,  the 
ocean."     The  Same  epithet  had  also  occurred  in  the  preceding  verse  (=S.V.  i.  18), 
where  the  rishi  is  also  said  to  Invoke  the  bright  god,  as  did  Aurva,  Bhrigu,  and 
Apnavana  (Aurvabhriguvat  suchim  Apnavana-vad  a  huve  Agnvh  satmtdra-vasasam). 

333  The  same  epithet  is  applied  to  the  gods  in  general  in  x.  63,  4. 


214  HIGH  DIVINE  FUNCTIONS  ASSIGNED  TO  AGNI. 

(4)  High  divine  functions  assigned  to  him. 

The  highest  divine  functions  are  ascribed  to  Agni.  He  is  called  the 
divine  monarch  (samrdjo  asurasya),  and  declared  to  be  strong  as  Indra, 
vii.  6,  1  (Indrasyeva  pra  tavasas  kritdni  vande).  Although  (as  we  have 
seen  above)  he  is  described  in  some  passages  as  the  offspring  of  heaven 
and  earth,  he  is  said  in  other  places  to  have  stretched  them  out, 
iii.  6,  5  (tava  kratvd  rodasl  a  tatantha) ;  vii.  5,  4 ;  to  have  spread  out 
the  two  worlds  like  two  skins,  vi.  8,  3  (vi  charmamva  dhishane  avarta- 
yai) ;  to  have  produced  them,  i.  96  4  (janitd  rodasysh}  ;  vii.  5,  6 
(bhuvand  janayan) ;  to  have,  like  the  unborn,  supported  the  earth  and 
sky  with  true  hymns,  i.  67,  3  (ajo  na  kshdm  dadhdra  prithivlm  tas- 
tambha  dydm  mantrebhih  satyaih) ;  to  have,  by  his  flame,  held  aloft  the 
heaven,  iii.  5,  10  (ud  astambhlt  samidhd  ndkam  rishvah] ;  to  have  kept 
asunder  the  two  worlds,  vi.  8,  3  (vi  astabhndd  rodasl  mitro  adbhutah} ; 
to  have  formed  the  mundane  regions  and  the  luminaries  of  heaven, 
vi.  7,  7  (vi  yo  rajdmsi  amimlta  sukratur  vaisvdnaro  vi  divo  rtochand 
kaviK] ;  vi.  8%  2 ;  to  have  begotten  Mitra,  x.  8,  4  (janayan  Mitram)* 
and  caused  the  sun,  the  imperishable  orb,  to  ascend  the  sky,  x.  156,  4 
(Agne  nakshafcam  ajaram  d  suryam  rohayo  divi] ;  to  have  made  all  that 
flies,  or  walks,  or  stands,  or  moves,  z.  88,  4331  (sa  patatri  itvaram 
sthdh  jagad  yat  svdtram  agnir  akrinod  jdtaveddh)  •  to  adorn  the  heaven 
with  stars,  i.  68,  5  (pipesa  ndkam  stribhir  damundh).  He  is  the  head 
(murddha)  and  summit  (kakud}  of  the  sky,  the  centre  (ndbhi]  of  the 
earth  (i.  59,  2)  ;  compare  verse  1 ;  vi.  7,  1 ;  viii.  44,  16  ;  x.  88,  5  ; 
he  props  up  men  like  a  pillar,  i.  59, 1  (sthuneva  jandn  upamid  yayantJia); 
iv.  5,  1  (anuriena  brihatd  vakshathena  upa  stabhdyad  upamin  na  rodhaK]. 
His  greatness  exceeds  'that  of  heaven  and  all  the  worlds,  i.  59,  5 
(Divas  chit  te  brihato  jdtavedo  vaisvdnara  pra  ririche  mahitvam) ;  iii. 
3,  10  (Jdtah  dprino  bhuvandni  rodasl  Agne  td  visvd  paribhur  asi  tmana) ; 
iii.  6,  2.335  He,  the  destroyer  of  cities,  has  achieved  famous  exploits 

J3t  This  half  verse  (x.  88,  4)  is  quoted  in  Nirukta,  v.  3.  Durga,  the  commentator 
on  the  Nirukta,  explains  the  words  by  saying  that  Agni  subjects  all  things  to  himself 
at  the  time  of  the  mundane  dissolution.  The  gods  are  said  in  the  »ame  hymn  (x. 
88,  7,)  to  have  thrown  into  Agni  an  oblation  accompanied  by  a  hymn,  and  in  verse  9, 
this  oblation  is  said  te  have  consisted  of  all  creatures  or  all  worlds  (bhuvanani  visvd)  • 

333  Epithets  of  this  description  may  have  been  originally  applied  to  some  other  god 
to  whom  they  were  more  suitable  than  to  Agni,  and  subsequently  transferred  to  him 
by  his  worshippers  in  emulation  of  the  praises  lavished  on  other  deities. 


HIGH  DIVINE  FUNCTIONS  ASSIGNED  TO  AGNI.  215 

of  old,  vii.  6,  2  (purandarasya  glrbhir  a  vivd&e  Agner  vratdni  purvya 
mahdni).  Men  tremble  at  his  mighty  deeds,  and  his  ordinances  and 
designs  cannot  be  resisted,  ii.  8,  3  (yasya  vratam  na  mlyate);  ii.  9,  1  = 
Vaj.  S.  xi.  36  (adabdhavrata-pramatir  .  .  .  Agnih] ;  vi.  7,  5  ;  viii.  44, 
25  ;  viii.  92,  3  (yasmdd  re/ante  krishtayai  charkritydni  krinvatah). 
Earth  and  heaven  and  all  beings  present  and  future  obey  his  com- 
mands ;  vir.  5,  4  (tqva  tridhdtu  prithivl  uta  dyaur  vaisvdnara  vratam 
Agne  sachanta]  ;  A.V.  iv.  23,  7  (yasya  idam  pradisi  yad  rochate  yaj 
jdtam  janitavyam  cha  kevalam  \  staumi  Agnim  ndthito  johavlmi).  He 
conquered  wealth,  or  space,  for  the  gods  in  battle,  i.  59,  5  (yudhd 
devebhyo  varivas  chakartha')  ;  and  delivered  them  from  calamity,  vii. 
13,  2  (tvam  devdn  abhisaster  amunchah).  He  is  the  conqueror  of 
thousands  (sahasrajify,  i.  188,  1.  All  the  gods  fear  and  do  homage 
to  him  when  he  abides  in  darkness,  vi.  9,  7  (visve  devah  anamasyan 
bhiydnds  tvdm  Agne  tamasi  tasthwdmsam).  He  is  celebrated  and 
worshipped  by  Varuna,  Mitra,  the  Maruts,  and  all  the  3,339  gods, 
iii.  9,  9  (trini  satd  tri  sahasrdni  Agnim  trimsach  cha  devdh  nava 
chdsaparyari)  ;  iii.  14,  4  (Mitras  cha  *tubhyam  Varifnah  sahasvo 
Agne  visve  Marutah  sumnam  archari)  ;  x.  69,  9  (devas  chit  te  am- 
ritdh  jdtavedo  mahimdnam  Vddhryasva  pro,  vochati).  ll  is  through 
him  that  Varuna,  Mitra,  and  Aryaman  triumph,  i.  141,  9  (tvayd  hi 
Agne  Faruno  dhritavrato  Mitrah  Sdsadre  Aryamd  suddnavah).  He 
knows  and  sees  all  worlds,  or  creatures,  iii.  55,  10  (Agnis  td  visva 
bhuvandni  veda) ;  x.  187,  4  (yo  vtsvd  'bhipasyati  bhuvand  sam  cha 
pasyati).336  He  knows  the  recesses  of  heaven,  iv.  8,  2,  4  (yidvdn 
drodhanam  divah),  the  divine  ordinances  and  the  races  or  births  of 
of  gods  and  men,  i.  70,  1,  3  (a  daivydni  vratd  chikitvdn  d  mdnushasya 
janasyajanma  \  etd  chikitvo  bhumd  ni  pdhi  devdndmjanma  martdihs  cha 
vidvdri)  ;  iii.  4,  11  ;  vi.  15,  13  ;  the  secrets  of  mortals,  viii.  39,  6 
Agnir  jdtd  devdndm  Agnir  veda  martdndm  apichyam) ;  and  hears  the 
invocations  which  are  addressed  to  him,  viii.  43,  23  (tarn  tvd  vayam 
havdmahe  srinvantam  jdtavedasam}.  He  is  asura,  "  the  divine,"  iv.  2,  5," 
v.  12,  1  ;  v.  15,  1  ;  vii.  2,  3;  vii.  6,  1.  • 

336  These  same  words  are  in  iii.  62,  9,  applied  to  Pushan:     See  above,  p.  172. 


216  AGNI'S  RELATIONS  TO  HIS  WORSHIPPERS. 

(5)  Agni's  relations  to  his  worshippers. 

The  votaries  of  Agni  prosper,  they  are  wealthy  and  live  long, 
vi.  2,  4,  5  (samidhd  yas  te  dhutim  nisitim  martyo  nasat  \  vaydvantam 
sa  pushyati  kshayam  Agne  saidyusham) ;  vi.  5,  5  (yas  te  yajnena  sami- 
dhd yah  ukthair  arkebhih  suno  sahaso  daddsat  \  sa  martyeshu  amrita 
prachetdh  rdyd  dyumnena  sravasd  vti  bhdti) ;  vi.  10,  3  ;  vi.  13,  4  ; 
vi.  15,  11 ;  vii.  11,  2  ;  viii.  19,  5,  6  ;  viii.  44,  15;  viii.  73,  9.  He 
18  the  deliverer  (compare  viii.  49,  5)  and  friend  of  the  man  who 
comes  to  him  with  fine  horses  and  gold,  and  a  chariot  full  of  riches, 
and  delights  to  entertain  him  as  a  guest,  iv.  4,  10  (yas  tvd  svasvak 
suhiranyo  Agne  upaydti  vasumatd  rathena  \  tasya  trdtd  bhavasi  sakhd 
yas  te  dtithyam  dmishag  jujoshaf)  ;  and  grants  protection  to  the 
devoted  worshipper  who  sweats  to  bring  him  fuel,337  or  wearies 
his  head  to  serve  him,  iv.  2,  6  (yas  te  idhmam  jabharat  sishmdu.no 
murdhdnam  va  tatapate  tvdyd  \  bhuvas  tasya  svatavdn  pdyur  Agne}. 
He  watches  with  a  thousand  eyes  over  the  man  who  brings  him  food 
and  nourishes  him  with  oblations,  x.  79,  5  (yo  asmai  annam  trishu 
ddadhdti  dj y air  ghritair  juhoti  pushyati  \  tasmai  sahasram  akshabhir  vi 
chakshe).  He  bestows  on  his  servant  a  renowned,  devout,  excellent, 
incomparable  son,  who  confers  fame  upon  his  father,338  v.  25,  5  (Agnis 
tuvisravastamam  tuvibrahmdnam  uttamam  \  aturtam  srdvayatpatim  pu- 
tram  daddti  ddsushe).  He  gives  riches,  which  he  abundantly  com- 
mands, i.  1,  3  (Agnind  rayim  asnavat] ;  i.  31,  10  (tvam  Agne  pramatis 
tvam  pita  'si  nas  tvam  vayaskrit  tava  jdmayo  vayam  \  sam  tvd  rdyah 
iatinah  sam  sahasrinah  suvzram  yanti  vratapdm  aduWiya)  ;  i.  36,  4 
(visvam  so  Agne  jayati  tvayd  dhanam  yas  te  daddsa  martyah).  The  man 
whom  he  protects  and 'inspires  in  battle  conquers  abundant  food,  and 
can  never  be  overcome,  i.  27,  7f.=  S.V.  ii.  765  f.  (yam  Agne  pritsu 
martyam  avdh  vajeshu  yam  jundh  \  sa  yantd  sasvatlr  ishah  \  8.  Nakir 
asya  sahantya  paryetd  kayasya  chit).  No  mortal  enemy  can  by  any 
wondrous  power  gain  the  mastery  over  him  who  sacrifices  to  this  god, 

337  In  yin.  91,  19  f.  the  rishi  informs  Agni  that  he  has  no  cow  -uhich  would  yield 
butter  for  oblations,  and  no  axe  to  cut  wood  withal,  and  that  therefore  his  offering  is 
such  as  the  god  sees :  and  he  begs  him  to  accept  any  sorts  of  wood  he  may  throw 
into  him  (na  hi  me  asti  aghnya  na  svadhitir  vananvati  \  atha  etadrig  bharami  te  \ 
20.  Tad  Agne  kani  kani  chid  a  te  daruni  dadhmasi  ta  jushasva  yavishthya). 

338  Such  is  the  sense  assigned  by  Sayana  to  the  epithet  sravayat-patim. 


AGNI'S  RELATIONS  TO  HIS  WORSHIPPERS.  217 

viii.  23,  15  (na  tasya  may  ay  a.  chana  ripur  islta  martyah  \  yo  Agnaye 
daddsa  havyaddtilhiK).  He  also  confers,  and  is  the  guardian  and  lord  of, 
immortality,  i.  31,  7  (tvafh  tarn  Agne  amritatve  uttame  marttam  dadhdsi) ; 
vii.  7,  7  (amritasya  rakshita) ;  vii.  4,  6  (ise  hi  Agne  amritasya  bhureh}. 
He  was  made  by  the  gods  the  centre  of  immortality,  iii.  17,  4  (amrit- 
asya nabhih).  His  worshippers  seek  him  with  glad  hearts,  viii.  43,  31 
(hridbhir  mandrebhir  Imahe),  In, a  funeral  hymn  Agni  is  supplicated 
to  warm  with  his  heat  the  unborn  part339  of  the  deceased,  and  in  his 
auspicious  form  to  carry  it  to  the  world  of  the  righteous,  x.  16,  4 
(ajo  bhdgas  tapasd  tarn  tapasva  tarn  te  sochis  tapatu  tarn  te  archih  \  yds  te 
iivds  tanvo  jdtavedas  tdbhir  vahainam  sukritdm  u  lokam}.sio  He  carries 

339  Professor  Aufrecht  thinks  that  this  is  not  the  sense  of  the  words,  and  that  they 
mean :  "  The  goat  (with  whose  skin  the  dead  is  covered)  is  thy  share  ;  that  consume 
with  thy  heat  ;  that  he  consumed  with  thy  flash  and  flame,"  etc.  ;  and  compares 
Arfvalayanas'  Grihya  Sutras  iv.  2,  4 ;  3,  20  ;  and  Katyayanas*  S'rauta  Sutras,  xxv. 
7,  34.  I  gather  from  the  fact  that  this  passage  is  cited  in  the  Lexicon  of  Messrs. 
Bohtlingk  and  Roth  under  aja  1,  c  (where  the  sense  of  goat  is  assigned  to  the  word), 
that  they  are  of  the  same  opinion  as  Professor  Aufrecht.  I  think,  however,  that  the 
rendering  I  have  followed  is  more  agreeable  to  the*context.  In  the  preceding  verses 
1  and  2,  Agni  Had  heen  besought  not  so  to  burn  the  body  of  the  deceased  as  to 
destroy  it  (compare  R.V.  i.  162,  20),  but  after  having  sufficiently  "  cooked"  the  man 
(yadd  sritath  krinavah),  to  send  him  to  the  Fathers.  In  verse  3,  the  different  ele- 
ments of  which  the  body,  when  living,  was  composed,  are  commanded  to  return  to 
the  sources  from  which  they  were  at  first  derived  ;  and  then  in  the  verse  before  us 
(as  I  understand  it),  the  god  is  besought  to  warm  the  man's  unborn  part,  and  convey 
it  to  the  world  of  the  righteous.  In  the  text  there  is  no  word  answering  to  "thy," 
which  has,  therefore,  to  be  supplied  by  those  Who  understand  aja  of  a  goat.  It  is 
more  natural  to  suppose  that  it  is  the  soul  of  the  departed  man  than  that  of  a  goat 
which  is  to  be  conveyed  to  the  world  of  the  righteous ;  (although  I  am  aware 
that  Manu,  v.  42,  declares  that  cattle  which  are  sacrificed  go  to  heaven,  and  the 
same  is  said  of  the  sacrificial  horse  in  R.V.  i.  162,  21,  and  i.  163,  12  f.) ;  and  in  the 
following  verse  (x.  16,  5)  it  is  evidently  the  man  who  i->  said  to  have  been  offered  to 
Agni,  and  whom  Agni  is  besought  to  dismiss  to  the  Fathers.  My  rendering  has  the 
support  of  Professor  Miiller  (Journ.  of  Germ.  Or.  Soc.,  vol.  ix.  p.  xv.),  who  trans- 
lates ajo  bhagah  by  "  das  ew'ge  Theil,"  the  eternal  part,  and  of  M.  Langlois,  who 
renders  it  "  une  portion  immortelle."  These  verses,  x.  16,  1-5,  will  be  found  quoted 
at  length  in  the  section  on  Yama. 

840  Some  further  verses  of  this  hymn  will  be  quoted  in  the  section  on  Yama.  Jo 
verse  9,  the  kravyad  Agni,  the  consumer  of  carrion,  or  of  the  dead,  is  spoken  of  as 
an  object  to  btsfepelled.  In  the  Vaj.  S.  i.  17,  Agni  is  prayed  to  drive  away  two  of 
his  own  forms,  the  amad  and  the  kravyad,  and  to  bring  the  sacrificial  fire  (apa  Agne 
Agnim  amadam  jahi  nish  kravyadam  sedha  \  a  devayajam  vqha),  where  the  com- 
mentator says  that  three  Agnis  are  .mentioned,  the  one  which  devours  raw  flesh 
(amad)  which  is  the  common  culinary  fire  (laukiko  'gnih),  the  second  the  funereal 
(kravyat  \  savadahe  kravyam  mainsam  atti  iti  kravyat  chitagnih),  and  the  third  the 


218  AGNI'S  RELATIONS  TO  HIS  WORSHIPPERS. 

men  across  calamities,  as  in  a  ship  over  the  sea,  or  preserves  from 
them,  iii.  20,  4  (parshad  visvd  'ti  duritd  grinantatn) ;  v.  4,  9  (visvdni  no 
durgahd  jdtavedah  sindhum  na  ndvd  durita  'ti  parshi}  ;  vii.  12,  2  (sa 
mahnd  visvd  duritdni  sahvdn  \  sa  no  rakshishad  duritdd  avadydt}.  All 
blessings  issue  from  him  as  branches  from  a  tree,  vi.  13,  1  (tvad  visvd 
subhaga  saubhagdni  Ague  vi  yanti  vanino  na  vaydh}.  He  is  like  a 
water-trough  in  a  desert,  x.  4,  1  (dhanvann  iva  prayd  asi  Ague].  All 
treasures  are  congregated  in  him,  x.  6,  6  (sam  yasmin  visvd  vasuni 
jagmuh) ;  he  commands  all  the  riches  in  the  earth,  the  upper  and  lower 
oceans,  the  atmosphere,  and  the  sky,  vii.  6,  7  (a  devo  dade  budhnyd 
vasuni  vaisvdnarah  uditd  suryasya  \  d  samudrdd  avardd  d  parasmdd  d 
Agnir  divah  d  prithivydK)  ;  x.  91,  3  (vasur  vasundm  kshayasi  tvam 
ekah  id  dydvd  cha  ydni  prithivl  cha  pushy  atah).  He  is,  in  consequence, 
continually  supplicated  for  all  kinds  of  boons,  riches,  food,  deliverance 
from  enemies  and  demons,  poverty,  nakedness,  reproach,  childlessness, 
hunger,  i.  12,  8,  9  ;  i.  36,  12  ff.  ;  i.  58,  8,  9  ;  ii.  4,  8  ;  ii.  7,  2,  3  ; 
ii.  9,  5;  iii.  1,  21;  iii.  13,  7;  iii,  16,  5;  iv.  2,  20  ;  iv.  3,  14;  iv.  11, 
6  ;  v.  3,  11 ;  vi.  1,  12  f. ;  vi.  4,  8  ;  vi.  5,  7 ;  vi.  6,  7 ;  vii.  1,  5,  13,  19. 
He  is  besought  to  protect  his  worshippers  with  a  hundred  iron  walls, 
vi.  48,  8  ;  vii.  3,  7  (satam  purbhir  dyasilhir  ni  pdJii};  vii.  16,  10;  to 
be  himself  such  a  fortification  with  a  hundred  surrounding  walls,  vii. 
15,  14  (adha  mahl  nah  ayasl  anddhrishto  nripltaye  \  pur  lhava  £ata- 
bkujih) ;  i.  189,  2 ;  to  consume  their  enemies  like  dry  bushes,  iv.  4,  4 
(ni  amitrdn  oshatdt  tigmahete  \  yo  no  ardtim  samidhdna  chakre  mchd 
tarn  dhakshi  atasam  na  sushlcam) ;  to  strike  down  the  malevolent  as  a 
tree  is  destroyed  by  lighting,  vi.  8,  5  (pavyeva  rdjann  aghasamsam 
ajara  nichd  ni  vrischa  vaninam  na  tejasa].  Compare  A.Y.  iii.  1,  1 ; 
iii.  2,  1  ;  vi.  120,  1.  He  is  invoked  in  battle,  viii.  43,  21  (samatsu 
tvd  havdmahe],  in  which  he  leads  the  van,  viii.  73,  8  (puroydvdnam 
djishu}.  He  is  prayed  to  forgive  whatever  sin  the  worshipper  may 
have  commited  through  folly,  and  to  make  him  guiltless  towards  Aditi, 
iv.  12,  4  (yat  chid  hi  te  purushutrd  yavishtha  achittibhis  chalcrima  leach 
chid  dgah  \  Icridhi  su  aswdn  Aditer  andgdn  vi  endmsi  sisratho  vishvag 
Agne] ;  viii.  93,  7  (yat  slm  dgai  chakrir^ia  tat  su  mrila  tad  Aryamd 

sacrificial  (yagayogyaK).  Compare  Vaj.  San.  xviii.  51  f.  The  Taitt.  Sanh.  ii.  5,  8,  6, 
mentions  another  threefold  division  of  fire :  Trayo  vai  agnayo  havyavahano  devanam 
kavyavahanah  pitfinam  saharakshah  asuranam. 


AGNI'S  RELATIONS  TO  HIS  WORSHIPPERS.  219 

Aditih  sisrathantu ;  see  above  pp.  46  and  47) ;  and  to  avert  Varuna's 
wrath,  iv.  1,  4  (tvam  no  Agne  Varunasya  vidvan  devasya  Jielo  ava  yasisl- 
shthdK). 

In  two  passages,  as  we  have  already  seen  (p.  108,  note),  the  wor- 
shipper naively  says  to  Agni  (as  Indra's  votary  says  to  him),  viii.  44, 
23,  "  If  I  were  thou,  and  thou,  Agni,  wert  I,  thy  aspirations  should 
be  fulfilled ;"  and  viji.  19,  25  f.,  "Jf,  Agni,  thou  wert  a  mortal,  and  I, 
o  thou  who  art  rich  in  friends,  were  an  immortal,  (26)  I  would  not 
abandon  thee  to  wrong  or  to  penury.  My  worshipper  should  not  be 
poor,  nor  distressed,  nor  miserable." 

In  viii.  92,  2,  Agni  called  Daivodasa  (Daivodaso  'gnih),  from  which 
it  would  appear  that  king  Divodasa  claimed  him  especially  as  his 
tutelary  god.  In  the  same  way  he  is  called  in  viii.  19,  32  (samrdjam 
Trusadasyavam),  and  in  x.  69,  1  ff.,  he  is  called  Agni  Badhryasva, 
apparently  because  a  sage  of  that  name  had  kindled  him.  Compare 
the  epithet  Kausika  applied  to  Indra  in  R.V.  i.  10,  11,  and  the  first 
vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  347  ff. 

Agni  is  occasionally  identified  with  other  gods  and  different  god- 
desses, Indra,  Vishnu,  Varuna,  Mitra,  Aryaman,  Ansa,  Tvashtri, 
Rudra,  Pushan,  Savitri,  Bhaga,  Aditi,  Hotra,  Bharati,  Ila,  Sarasvati, 
ii.  1,  3-7,  and  11  (tvam  Agne  Indro  vrishabhah  satdm  asi  tvam  Vulinur 
urugdyo  namasyah,  etc.);  iii.  5,  4;  v.  3,  1;  vii.  12,  3;  x.  8,  5.311  All  gods 
are  comprehended  in  him,  vi  3,  1  (tve  visve  tahasas  putra  devdh)  •  he 
surrounds  them  as  the  circumference  o'f  a  wheel  does  the  spokes, 
v.  13,  6  (Agne  nemir  ardn  iva  tvam  devdn  parilhur  asi) ;  compare 
i.  141,  9.  Varuna  is  in  one  place  spoken  of  as  his  brother,  iv.  1,  2 
(sa  Ihrdtaram  Tarunam  Agne  d  vavritsva"). 

Agni  is  associated  with  Indra242  in  different  hymns,  as  i.  108  and  109  ; 
iii.  12  ;  vi.  59  and  60  ;  vii.  93  and  94  ;  viii.  38  and  40.  The  two 

541  Another  verse  where  Agni  is  identified  with  other  gods  is  i.  164,  46.  Indram 
Mitram  Tarunam  Agnim  ahur  atho  divyah  sa  suparno  garutman  \  ekarn  sad  viprah 
bahudha  vadanti  Agnim  Yamam  Matarisvanam  ahuh  \  "  They  call  him  Indra,  Mitra? 
Varuna,  Agni ;  then  there  is  that  celestial,  well-winged  bird.  Sages  name  variously 
that  which  is  br£*one  ;  they  call  it  Agni,  Yama,  Mataris'van."  Compare  A.V.  xiii. 
3,  13  :  sa  Varunah  say  am  Agnir  bkavati  sa  Mitro  bhavati  pratar  udyan  \  sa  Savita 
bhutva  antariJcshena  yati  sa  Indro  bhutva  tapati  madhyato  diva^n  \  "Agni  becomes 
Varuna  in  the  evening ;  rising  in  the  morning  he  is  M  itra  ;  becoming  Savitri  he  moves 
through  the  air ;  becoming  Indra  he  glows  in  the  middle  of  the  sky." 

342  See  Miiller's  Lectures  on  Language.     Second  series,  pp.  495  f. 


220  AGNI'S  EELATIONS  TO  HIS  WOESHIPPEES. 

gods  are  said  to  be  twin  brothers,  having  the  same  father,  and  having 
their  mothers  here  and  there,343  vi.  59,  2  (see  above,  pp.  14  and  81),  to 
be  both  thunderers  (vajrind),  slayers  of  Vrittra  or  of  foes  (vrittrahand), 
and  shakers  of  cities,  iii.  12,  4,  6  (Indrugnl  navatim  puro  ddsapatnlr 
adhunutam  \  sdJcam  ekena  karmand] ;  vi.  59,  3  ;  vi.  60,  3 ;  vii.  93,  1,  4  ; 
viii.  38,  2.344  They  are  also  invited  together  to  come  and  drink  soma 
(vii.  93,  6 ;  viii.  38,  4,  7-9),  and  are,  together  invoked  for  help,  vii.  94, 
7  (Indragnl  avasd  d  gatam  asmabhyam  charshanlsaha}.  In  one  place, 
i.  109,  4,  they  are  called  asvind,  "  horsemen."  (See  Miiller,  as  quoted 
at  the  foot  of  the^age).  Agni  is  elsewhere  said  to  exercise  alone  the 
function  usually  assigned  to  Indra,  and  to  slay  Yrittra  and  destroy 
cities,  i.  59,  6  ( Vaisvdnaro  dasyum  Agnir  jaghanvdn  adhunot  Jcdshthdh 
ova  S'ambaram  bhet} ;  i.  78,  4  (tarn  u  tvd  vrittrahantamam  yo  dasyun 
avadhunushe  \  dyumnair  abhi  pro,  nonumah) ;  vi.  16,  14,  39,  48  (vrittra- 
hanam  purandaram  \  Agne  puro  rurojitna) ;  vii.  5,  3 ;  vii.  6,  2 ;  viii. 
63,  4.  He  is  also  described  as  driving  away  the  Dasyus  from  the  house, 
thus  creating  a  large  light  for  the  Arya,  vii.  5,  6  (tvam  dasyun  oTcasah 
ajah  urujyotirjanayann  drydya,  compare  i.  59,  2,  and  x.  69,  6),  as  the 
promoter  of  the  Arya,  viii.  92.  1  (dryasya  vardhanam  Agnim\  and  as 
the  vanquisher  of  the  irreligious  Panis,  vii.  6,  3  (ni  akratun  grathino 
mridhravachah  pamn  asraddhan  avridhdn  ayajndn  \  pro,  pra  tan  dasyun 
Agnir  vivdya  purvas  chaJcdra  apardn  ayajyun), — although  it  is  Indra 
who  is  most  frequently  represented  in  the  hymns  as  the  patron  and 
helper  of  the  sacred  race,  and  the  destroyer  of  their  enemies.  On  the 
other  hand,  in  viii.  38,  1,  where  the  two  gods  are  called  two  priests 
(yajnasya  ritvijd),  Indra  is  made  to  share  in  the  character  peculiar  to 

Agni.345     In  hymn  i.  93,  Agni  and  Soma  are  celebrated  in  company. 

« 

313  The  word  so  rendered  is  ihehamatara.  Sayana  says  it  means  that  their  mother 
Aditi  is  here  and  there,  i.e.  everywhere.  Eoth,  s.v .  understands  it  to  mean  that  the 
mother  of  the  one  is  here,  of  the  other  there,  i.e.  in  different  places.  Compare  iheha 
jate  E.V.  v.  47,  5.  See  Miiller's  Lectures  on  Language  ii.  495. 

311  Compare  A.V.  iv.  23,  5;  yii.  110,  1  f. 
*    345  Compare  the  words  attributed  to  Indra  in  x.  119,  13  above,  p.  91. 


METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  AGNI.  221 

(6)  Agni, — a  metrical  sketch. 

Great  Agni,  though  thine  essence  be  but  one, 
Thy  forms  are  three ;  as  fire  thou  blazest  here, 
As  lightning  flashest  in  the  atmosphere, 

In  heaven  thou  flamest  as  the  golden  sun. 
,  i 

It  was  in  heaven  thou  hadst  thy  primal  birth  ; 

By  art  of  sages  skilled  in  sacred  lore 
Thou  wast  drawn  down  to  human  hearths  of  yore, 
And  thou  abid'st  a  denizen  of  earth. 

Sprung  from  the  mystic  pair,316  by  priestly  hands 
In  wedlock  joined,  forth  flashes  Agni  bright ; 
But, — o  ye  Heavens  and  Earth,  I  tell  you  right, — 

The  unnatural  child  devours  the  parent  brands. 

But  Agni  is  a  god :  we  must  not  deem 
That  he  can  err,  or  dare  to  reprehend 
His  acts,  which  far  our  reason's  grasp  transcend': 

He  best  can  judge  what  deeds  a  god  beseem. 

And  yet  this  orphaned  god  himself  survives : 
Although  his  hapless  mother  soon- expires, 
And  cannot  nurse  the  babe,  as  babe  requires, — 

Great  Agni,  wondrous  infant,  grows  and  thrives. 

SmoKe-bannered  Agni,  god  with  crackling  voice  • 
And  flaming  hair,  when  thou  dost  pierce  the  gloom 
At  early  morn,  and  all  the  world  illume, 

Both  Heaven  and  Earth  and  gods  and  men  rejoice. 

In  every  home  thou  art  a  welcome  guest ; 

The  household's  tutelary  lord  ;  a  son, 

A  Cither,  mother,  brother,  all  in  one ; 
A  friend  by  whom  tiy  faithful  friends  are  blest. 

846  The  two  pieces  of  fuel  by  the  attrition  of  which  fire  is  produced,  which,  as  we 
have  seen  above,  are  represented  as  husband  and  wife. 


222  METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  AGNI. 

A  swift- winged  messenger,  thou  callest  down 

From  heaven,  to  crowd  our  hearths,  the  race  divine, 
To  taste  our  food,  our  hymns  to  hear,  benign, 
And  all  our  fondest  aspirations  crown. 

Thou,  Agni,  art  our  priest,  divinely  wise, 
In  holy  science  versed ;  thy  skill  detects 

<'  f 

The  faults  that  mar  our  rites,  mistakes  corrects, 
And  all  our  acts  completes  and  sanctifies. 

Thou  art  the  cord  that  stretches  to  the  skies, 

The  bridge  that  spans  the  chasm,  profound  and  vast, 
Dividing  Earth  from  Heaven,  o'er  which  at  last 

The  good  shall  safely  pass  to  Paradise. 

But  when,  great  god,  thine  awful  anger  glows, 
And  thou  revealest  thy  destroying  force, 
All  creatures  flee  before  thy  furious  course, 

As  hosts  are  chased  by  overpowering  foes. 

Thou  levellest  all  thou  touchest ;  forests  vast 

Thou  shear' st  like  beards  which  barber's  razor  shaves, 
Thy  wind-driven  flames  roar  load  as  ocean- waves, 

And  all  thy  track  is  black  when  thou  hast  past. 

But  thou,  great  Agni,  dost  not  always  wear 

That  direful  form ;  thou  rather  lov'st  to  shine 
» Upon  our  hearths  with  milder  flame  benigrf, 
And  cheer  the  homes  where  thou  art  nursed  with  care. 

Yes,  thou  delightest  all  those  men  to  bless, 
Who  toil,  unwearied,  to  supply  the  food 
"Which  thou  so  lovest,  logs  of  well-dried  wood, 

And  heaps  of  butter  bring, — thy  favourite  mess. 
r 

<-i 
Though  I  no  cow  possess,  and.have  no  store 

Of , butter, — nor  an  axe  fresh  wood  to  cleave, 
Thou,  gracious  god,  wilt  my  poor  gift  receive, — 
These  few  dry  sticks  I  bring ;  I  have  no  more. 


METRICAL  SKETCH  OF  AGNI.  223 

Preserve  us,  lord,  thy  faithful  servants  save 
From  all  the  ills  by  which  our  bliss  is  marred  ; 
Tower  like  an  iron  wall  our  homes  to  guard, 

And  all  the  boons  bestow  our  hearts  can  crave. 

And  when  away  our 'brief  existence  wanes, 

When  we  at  length  our  earthly  homes  must  quit, 

f  ' 

And  our  freed  souls  to  worlds  unknown  shall  flit, 
Do  thou  deal  gently  with  our  cold  remains ; 

And  then  thy  gracious  form  assuming,  guide 

Our  unborn  part  across  the  dark  abyss 

Aloft  to  realms  serene  of  light  and  bliss, 
Where  righteous  men  among  the  gods  abide. 


224 


SECTION  -XIV. 

TVASHTRI. 

This  god,  who  in  the  later  mythology  is  regarded  as  one  of  the 
Adityas,347  but  as  we  have  seen  (in  the  section  on  those  deities)  does 
not  hear  that  character  in  the  hymns  of  the  llig-veda,  is  the  Hephaistos, 
or  Vulcan,  of  the  Indian  pantheon,  the  ideal  artist,  the  divine  artizan, 
the  most  skilful  of  workmen,  who  is  versed  in  all  wonderful  and  admir- 
able contrivances,  x.  53,  9  (Tvashtd  mdydh  ved  apasdm  apastamaK). 
He  sharpens  the  iron  axe  of  Brahmanaspati,  ibid,  (sisite  nunam  parasum 
svdyasam  yena  vrischud  etaso  BrahmanaspatiK] ;  and  forges  the  thunder- 
bolts of  Indra,34s  i  32,  2  (Tvashtd  asmai  vajram  svaryaih  iataksha) ;  i. 
52,  7;  i.  61,  6;  i.  85,  9;  v.  31,  4 ;  vi.  .17,  10;  x.  48,  3;  which  are 
described  as  golden  (hiranyaya]  i.  85,  9,  or  of  iron  (dyasa}  x.  48,  3, 
with  a  thousand  points  (sahasrabhrishti}  and  a  hundred  edges  (satdsri), 
i.  85,  9  ;  vi.  17,  10  (see  above,  p.  86).  He  is  styled  supdni,  sugalhasti, 
the  beautiful-,  or  skilful-handed,  iii.  54,  12;  vi.  49,  9;  svapas,  sukrit, 
the  skilful  worker,  i.  85,  9 ;  iii.  54,  12 ;  visvarupa,^9  the  omniform,  or 
archetype,  of  all  forms,  i.  13,  10  ;  iii.  55, 19  ;330  x.  10,  5;  and  savitri, 
the  vivifier,  iii.  55,  19 ;  x.  10,  5.  He  imparts  generative  power  and 
bestows  offspring,351  i.  142,  10  (tan  nas  turipam  adbhutam  puru  vd 
a 

347  See  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  103  ff. 

348  According  to  R.V.  i.  121,  3,  Indra  himself  (?)  is  said  to  have  fashioned  the 
thunderbolt  (takshad  vajram] . 

349  In  iii.  38,  4,  the  epithet  vis'varupa  is  applied  to  another  god, — Indra  according 
to  Sayana. 

•    3-°  Quoted  in  Nirukta  x.  34.     See  Roth's  illustrations  of  that  work,  p.  144,  where 
the  word  savitri  is  said  to  bef  an  epithet  of  Tvashtri. 

351  In  A.V.  vi.  81,  3,  Tvashtri  is  said  to  have  bound  the  amulet'Thich  Aditi  wore 
when  she  was  desirous  of  offspring,  on  the  arm  of-- a  female,  in  order  that  she  might 
bear  a  son  (yam  pprihastam  abibhar  Aditih  putrakamya  \  Tvashla  tarn  asyah  a 
badhnad  yathn  putram  janad  it{).  In  A.Y.  ri.  1,  1,  Aditi  is  said  to  have  cooked  a 
brahmaudana  oblation  when  desirous  of  sons  (Aditir  ndthita  iyam  brahmaudanam 
pachati  putrakamci].  See  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  26. 


TVASHTRI.  225 

aram  puru  tmand  \  Tvashtd  poshaya  vi  syatu  rdye  ndbhd  no  asma- 
yuh]  ;  iii.  4,  9  =  vii.  2,  9  (tan  nas  turlpam  adha  poshayitnu  deva 
Tvashtar  vi  rardnah  syasva  \  yato  virah  karmanyah  sudaksho  yukta- 
grdvd  jdyate  devakdmah} ;  vii.  34,  20  (a  yan  nah  patnlr  gamanti 
achha  Tvashtd  supdnir  dadhdtu  vlrdn);  compare  Vaj.  Sanh.  xxi.  20; 
xxii.  20 ;  xxvii.  20 ;  and  A'.V.  ii.  29,  2.  He  forms  husband  and 
wife  for  each  oth^er,  even  from  the  womb,  E.V.  x.  10,  5  (garlhe 
nu  nau  janitd  dampatl  kar  devas  Tvashtd  savitd  visvarupah}  ; 
A.V.  vi.  78,  3  (Tvashtd  jdydm  ajanayat  Tvashtd  asyai  tvdm  patim}. 
He  developes  the  seminal  germ  in  the  womb,  and  is  the  shaper 
of  all  forms,  human  and  animal,  E.Y.  i.  188,  9  (Tvashtd  rupdni 
hi  prabhuh  pasun  visvdn  samdnaje) ;  viii.  91,  8  (Tvashtd  rupeva  tak- 
shya};  x.  184,  1  (Vishnur  yonim  kalpayatu  Tvyshtd  rupdni  pimsatu); 
A.V.  ii.  26,  1  ;  v.  26,  8  ;  ix.  4,  6  (Tvashtd  rilpdndm  janitd  pa£undm)  ; 
Yaj.  S.  xxxi.  17 ;  Taitt.  Samh.  i.  5,  U  1,  2  ;  i-  6,  4,  4 ;  vi.  p.  650  (of 
India  Office  MS.  Tvashtd  vai  retasah  siktasya  rupdni  vilcaroti  \  tarn  eva 
vrishanam  patnlshv  apisrijate  so  'smai  rupdni  vikaroti] ;  S'atapatha  Br. 
i.  9,  2,  10  (Tvashtd  vai  siktam  reto  vikaroti) ;  xiii.  1,  8,  7.  Compare 
ii.  2,  3,  4 ;  iii.  7,  3,  1 1 .  He  has  produced  and  nourishes  a  great 
variety  of  creatures ;  all  worlds  (or  beings)  are  his,  and  are  known  to 
him ;  he  has  given  to  the  heaven  and  earth  and  to  all  things  their 
forms,  iii.  55,  19  (devas  Tcashta  savitd  visvarupah  puposha  prajdh  puru- 
dhdjajdna  \  imd  cha  visvd  Ihuvandni  asya] ;  iv.  42,  3  (Tvashteva  visvd 
Ihuvandni  vidvdn);  x.  110,  9  (yah  ime  dydvdprithivl  janitrl  rupair 
apimsad  Ihuvandni  visvd'}.  The  Yaj.  S.  xxix.  9,  says:  Tvashtd  vlram 
devakdmam  (comp.  R.Y.  iii.  4,  9,  quoted  above)  jajdna  Tvashtur  arvd 
jdyate  dsur  asvah  \  Tvashtedafh  visvam  bhuvanam  jajdna  \  "  Tvashtri 
has  generated  a  strong  man,  a  lover  of  the  gods.  Prom  Tvashtri  is  pro- 
duced a  swift  horse.  Tvashtri  has  created  the  whole  world."  He 
bestows  long  life,  E.Y.  x.  18,  6  (iha  Tvashtd  sujanimd  sajoshdh  dlrgham 
dyuh  karatijlvase  vah)  ;  A.Y.  vi.  78,  3  (Tvashtd  sahasram  dyumshi  dlr- 
gham dyur  karotu  vdm).  He  puts  speed  into  the  legs  of  a  horse,  Yaj.  &. 
ix.  8  =  A.Y.  vi.  92,  1  (d  te  Tvashtd  patsu  jawm  dadhdtu}.  In  ii.  23, 
17,  he  is  said  to  be  skille<J  in  all  Sama-texts  and  to  have  created 
Brahmanaspati  above  all  creatures  (visvehhyo  hi  tvd  hjiuvanelhyas  pari 
Tvashtd  'janat  sdmnah  sdmnah  Kbvih\  and  is  said,  along  with  heaven 
and  earth,  the  waters,  and  the  Bhrigus,  to  have  generated  Agni,  x.  2, 

15 


226  TVASHTRI. 

7  ;  x.  46,  9  (Dydvd  yam  Agnim  privithl  janishtdm  dpas  Tvashtd  Bhri- 
gavo  yam  saholhih};  compare  i.  95,  2.352  He  is  master  of  the  universe 
(Jthuvanasya  sakshani},  ii.  31,  4;  a  first-born  protector  and  leader,  ix. 
5,  9  (Tvashtdram  agrajdm  gopdm  puroydvdnam  d  huve);  compare  i.  13, 
10.  He  is  a  companion  of  the  Angirases,  x.  70,  9  (yad  Angirasdm 
abhavah  sachdlhuh),  and  knows  the  region  of  the  gods  (devdndm  pdthah 
upa  pro,  vidvdn  usan  yakshi}.  He  Id  supplicated  <to  nourish  the  wor- 
shipper and  protect  his  sacrifice.  He  is  dravtnodas,  the  bestower  of  bless- 
ings, and  suratna,  possessed  of  abundant  wealth,  x.  70,  9,  and  x.  92, 
1 1 ;  and  is  asked,  like  other  gods,  to  take  pleasure  in  the  hymns  of  his 
worshippers,  and  to  grant  them  riches,  vii.  34,  21  f.  (prati  nah  stomam 
Tvashtd  jusheta  \  Tvashtd  suddtro  vi  dadhdtu  rdyah). 

Tvashtri  is  in  several  passages  connected  with  the  Bibhus,  who,  like 
him,  are  celebrated  as  skilful  workmen  (see  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's 
Lexicon,  s.v.\  who  fashioned  Indra's  chariot  and  horses,  made  their  own 
parents  young,  etc.,  i.  Ill,  1  (takshan  ratham  suvritam  vidmand  'pasas 
takshan  harl  Indravdhd  vrishanbasu  \  takshan  pitrilhydm  JRibhavo 
yuvad  vayah},  i.  161,  7  ;  iv.  33,  3  ;  iv.  35,  5  ;  iv.  36,  3 ;  and  are  spoken 
of  by  Sayana  (on  i.  20,  6)  as  Tvashtri's  pupils  (takshana-vytipdra- 
husalasya  Tvashtuh  sishydh  Rilhavah}.  These  Bibhus  are  said  to  have 
made  into  four  a  single  new  sacrificial  cup  which  Tvashtri  had  formed 
(i.  20,  6.  uta  tyam  chamasam  navam  Tvashtur  devasya  nishkritam  \ 
akartta  chaturah  punah  \  i.  11Q,  3).  This  exhibition  of  skill  is  said  to 
have  been  performed  by  command  of  the  gods,  and  in  consequence  of  a 
promise  that  its  accomplishment  should  be  rewarded  by  their  exalt- 
ation to  divine  honours,  i.  161,  1-5,  (verse  2,  yadi  eya  karishyatha 
sdkam  devair  yajniydsq  Ihavishyatha}.  Tvashtri  is  in  this  passage  re- 
presented as  becoming  ashamed  and  hiding  himself  among  the  goddesses 
when  he  saw  this  alteration  of  his  work,  verse  4  (yadd  'vdkhyat  cha- 
rnasdn  chaturah  kritdn  dd  it  Tvashtd  gndsu  antar  ni  dnaje],  and  as  resent- 
ing this  change  in  his  own  manufacture  as  a  slight  to  himself,  and  as 
having  in  consequence  sought  to  slay  his  rivals,  verse  5  (handma  endn 
iti  Tvashtd  yad  abravlt  chamasam  ye  devaptinam  anindishttfy}.  In  another 
place  (iv.  33,  5,  6),  on  the  contrary,  ha  is  said  to  have  applauded 


is  the  being  who  claims,  in  x.  125,  1  f.  to  sustain  Tvashtri  and  other  gods 
(aham  somam  ahanasam  bibharmi  aham  Tvashtaram)  ? 


TVASHTRI'S  DAUGHTER  AND  HER  WEDDING.  227 

their  design,  and  admired  th^  brilliant  results  of  their  skill  (vilhraja- 
mdndms  chamasdn  aha  iva  avenat  Tvashtd  chaturo  dadnsvdn").353 

In  x.  66,  10,  the  Ribhus  are  spoken  of  as  the  supporters  of  the  sky 
(dhartdro  divah  Ribhavah  suhastdh). 

In  ii.  1,  5,  Agni  is  identified  with  Tvashtri,  as  he  is  also,  however, 
with  many  other  gods  in  other* verses  of  the  same  hymn.  In  i.  95,  5, 
Agni  appears  to  bet  designated  hf  the  word  Tvashtri.  In  vi.  47,  19, 
where  Tvashtri  is  spoken  of  as  yoking  his  horses  and  shining  resplen- 
dently  (yunjdno  haritd  rathe  bhuri  Tvashteha  rdjati],  the  commentator 
supposes  that  Indra  is  referred  to.354 

(2)  Tvashtri' s  daughter  and  far  wedding. 

In  x.  17,  1  f.  Tvashtri  is  said  to  have  given  his  daughter  Saranyu  in 
marriage  to  Vivasvat:  "Tvashtd  duhitre  vahatum  krinoti"  iti  idam  vis- 
vam  Ihuvanam  sameti  \  Yamasya  mdtd  paryuhyamdnd  mahojdyd  Vivas- 
vato  nandsa  \  apdguhann  amritdm  martyelhyah  kritvi  savarndm  adaUur 
Vivasvate  \  utdsvindv  alharad  yat  tad  dsld  ajahdd  u  dvd  mithund  Saran- 
yuh  |  "  Tvashtri  makes  a  wedding  for  his  daughter.  (Hearing)  this 
the  whole  world  assembles.  The  mother  of  Tama,  the  wedded  wife  of 
the  great  Vivasvat,  disappeared.  2.  They  concealed  the  immortal 
(bride)  from  mortals.  Making  (another)  of  like  appearance,  they  gave 
her  to  Vivasvat.  Saranyu  bore  the  two  Asvins,  and  when  she  had 
done  so,  she  deserted  the  two  twins."  These  two  verses  are  quoted  in 
the  Mrukta,  xii.  10f.,  where  the  following  illustrative  story  is  told: 
Tatra  itihdsam  dchakshate  \  Tvashtri  Saranyur  Vivasvatah  AditydA 

yamau  miihwMu  janaydnchakdra  \   sd   savarndm  anydm  *pratinidhdya 

• 

353  See  the  Aitareya  Brahmana,  iii.  30,  pp.  210  f.  of  Professor  Haug's  translation. 
The  Ribhus  had  by  their  austere  fervour,  it  is  there  said,  conquered  for  themselves  a 
right  to  partake  in  the  soma  libations  among  the  gods  (Ribhavo  vai  deveshu  tapasa 
somapltham  abhyajayan),  which,  however,  they  were  only  allowed  to  do  along  with 
Savitri  (=  Tvashtri  ?),  to  whom  Prajapati  had  said,  These  are  thy  pupils;  do  thou 
alone  drink  with  them ;  tava  vai  ime  antevasas  tvam  eva  ebhih  sampibasva) ;  and  witfi 
Prajapati.     The  gods,  however,  it  is  said,  loathed  these,deified  mortals  on  account  of 
their  human  sn^.11  (tebhyo  vai  devah  apa  eva  ablbhatsanta  manushya-gandhat ;  and 
accordingly  placed  two  Dhayyas  (particular  verses)  between  themselves  and  the  Ribhus. 

354  On  the  obscure  passage,  i.  84,  15,  where  the  name  of  Tvasbtri  is  mentioned,  the 
reader  may  consult  "Wilson's  translation»and  note,  Professor  Roth's  explanation  in  his 
Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  p.  49,  and  Professor  Benfey's  version  in  his  Orient  and 
Occident,  ii.  245  f. 


228  TVASHTRFS  DAUGHTER  AND  HER  WEDDING. 

dsvam  rupam  kritvd  pradadrdva  \  sa  Vivafrdn  Adityah  dsvam  eva  rupam 
kritvd  tdm  anusritya  sambabhuva  [  tato  'svinau  jajndte  savarndydm 
Manuh  \  "  Saranyu,  the  daughter  of  Tvashtri,  bore  twins  to  Yivasvat, 
the  son  of  Aditi.  She  then  substituted  for  herself  another  female  of 
similar  appearance,  and  fled  in  the  form  of  a  mare.  Vivasvat  in  like 
manner  assumed  the  shape  of  a  horse,  and  followed  her.  From  their  in- 
tercourse sprang  two  Asvins,  while  Manu  was  the  offspring  of  Savarna 
(or  the  female  of  like  appearance)."  See  Roth's  interpretation  of  R.V. 
x.  17,  1  ff.  and  remarks  thereon,  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental 
Society,  iv.  424  f. ;  and  the  same  writer's  translation,  in  his  Illustra- 
tions of  the  Nirukta,  p.  161,  of  a  passage  of  the  Brihaddevata,  quoted 
by  Sayana  on  R.V.  vii.  72,  2,  relating  the  same  story  about  Vivasvat 
and  Saranyu  which  is  given  in  the  Nirukta.  That  passage  is  as  fol- 
lows :  Abhavad  mithunam  Tvashtuh  Saranyus  Trisirdh  saha  \  sa  vai 
Saranyum  prdyachhat  svayam  eva  Vivasvate  \  tatah  Saranyvdm  jdte  te 
Yamayamyau  Vivasvatah  \  tdv  apy  ubhau  yamdv  eva  hy  dstdm  Yamyd 
cha  vai  Yamah  \  Srishtvd  bhartfuh  paroksham  tu  Saranyuh  sadrislm 
striyam  \  nikshipya  mithunau  tasydm  asvd  bhutvd  prachakrame  \  avij'nd- 
ndd  Vivasvdms  tu  tasydm  ajanayad  Manum  \  rdjarshir  dsit  sa  Manw 
Vivasvdn  iva  tejasd  \  sa  vijndya  -apakrdntdm  Saranyum  atmarupinlm  \ 
Tvdshtrlm  prati  jagdmdsu  vdjl  bhutvd  salakshanah  \  Saranyus  tu  Vivas- 
vantam  vijndya  hayarupinam  \  maithundyopachakrdma  tdm  sa  tattrdru- 
roha  sah  \  tatas  tayos  tu  vegev>a  sukram  tad  apatad  bhuvi  \  updjighrat 
cha  sd  tv  asvd  tat  sukram  garbha-kdmyayd  j  dgJirdna-mdtrdt  sukram 
tat  kumdrau  sambabhuvatuh  \  Ndsatyas  chaiva  Dasras  cha  yau  stutdv 
asvindv  api  \,  "  Tvashtri  had  twin  children,  (a  daughter)  Saranyu,  and 
(a  son)  Trisiras.  He  gave  Saranyu  in  marriage  to  Vivasvat,  to  whom 
she  bore  Tama  and  YamI,  who  also  were  twins.  Creating  a  female 
like  herself  without  her  husband's  knowledge,  and  making  the  twins 
over  in  charge  to  her,  Saranyu  took  the  form  of  a  mare,  and  departed. 
Vivasvat,  in  ignorance,  begot,  on  the  female  who  was  left,  Manu,  a  royal 
rishi,  who  resembled  his  father  in  glory.  But  discovering  that  the 
real  Saranyu,  Tvashtri's  daughter,  had  gone  away,  Vivasvat  followed 
her  quickly,  taking  the  shape  of  a  horSB  of  the  same  species  as  she. 
Recognizing  him  in  that  form  she  approached  him  with  the  desire  of 
sexual  connection,  which  he  gratified.  In  their  haste  his  seed  fell 
on  the  ground,  and  she,  being  desirous  of  offspring,  smelled  it.  From 


HOSTILITY  OF  INDKA  AND  TVASHTRI.  229 

this  act  sprang  the  two  Kumaras  (youths)  Nasatya  and  Basra,  who  are 
lauded  as  Asvins  (sprung  from  a  horse)." 

In  E.V.  viii.  26,  21  f.,  as  we  have  already  seen,  p.  144,  Vayu  also  is 
spoken  of  as  Tvashtri's  son-in-law.  Whether  Yayu's  wife  was  different 
from  Saranyu,  or  whether  there  is  a  discrepancy  between  this  story 
and  the  one  just  referred  to  about  Vivasvat,  does  not  appear. 

Tvashtri  is  represented  as  having  for  his  most  frequent  attendants  the 
wives  of  the  gods,  i.  22,  9  (Agne  patnlr  iha  a  vaha  devdndm  uiatir  upa  \ 
Tvashtdram  somapltaye)  ;  ii.  31,  4 ;  ii.  36,  3 ;  vi.  50,  13 ;  vii.  35,  6 ; 
x.  64,  10;  x.  66,  3.  This,  according  to  Professor  Roth,  s.v.,  results 
from  the  fact  that  it  is  in  the  wombs  of  females  that  his  creative  action 
is  principally  manifested. 

In  x.  49,  10,  he  is  spoken  of  as  if  he  were  a  deity  of  some  import- 
ance, though  inferior  to  Indra,  since  the  latter  is  said  to  place  in  the 
rivers  a  lucid  element,  which  even  Tvashtri,  though  a  god,  could  not  do 
(aham  tad  dsu  dhdrayam  yad  dsu  na  devas  chana  Tvashtd  adhdrayad 
rusat}.  • 

(3)  Hostility  of  Indra  and  Tvashtri. 

Indra  is  occasionally  represented  as  in  a  state  of  hostility  with 
Tvashtri  and  his  son.355  Thus  in  iii.  48,  4,  it  is  said  that  Indra  over- 
came him,  and  carried  off  his  so  ma-juice,  which  he  drank  from  the 
cups  (Tvashtaram  Indro  janushd  'bhibhuya  dmushya  somam  apilat  cha- 
mushu),  and  in  iv.  18,  3,  that  the  same  god  drank  off  the  soma  in  his 
house  (TvasTitur  grihe  apibat  somam  Indrah}.  In  explanation  of  these 
allusions,  the  qommentator,  who  in  his  note  on  iii.  48,  4,  calls  Tvashtri 
an  A.suTa  (Tvashtrindmakam  asuram),  refers  to  th^  Taittiriya  Sanhita,  ii. 
4,  12,  1,  where  it  is  related  that  Tvashtri,  whose  son  had  been  slain 
by  Indra,  began  to  perform  a  soma-sacrifice  in  the  absence  of  the 
latter,  and  refused,  on  the  ground  of  his  homicide,  to  allow  him  to 
assist  at  the  ceremony ;  when  Indra  interrupted  the  celebration,  and 
drank  off  the  soma  by  force  (Tvashtd  hataputro  vlndram  somam  dharat  f 
tasminn  Indra^  upahavam  aichhata  \  tarn  na  Htpdhvayata  "putram  me 

• 

355  In  i.  80,  14  (see  above,  p.  96),  it  is  said  that  even  Tvashtri,  trembles  at  Indra's 
wrath  when  he  thunders.  But  this  trait  is  merely  introduced  to  indicate  the  terrific 
grandeur  of  Indra's  manifestations.  In  Vaj.  Sanh.  xx.  44,  Tvashtri  is  said  to  have 
imparted  vigour  to  Indra  (Tvashtd  dadhat  sushmam  Indraya  vrishne). 


230  HOSTILITY  OF  INDRA  AND  TVASHTRI. 

'vadhlr  "  Hi  \  sa  yajna-vesasam  kritvd  prdsahd  somam  apibat  \  These 
words  are  repeated  in  ii.  5,  2,  1).  Compare  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  i.  6, 
3,  6  ff.  ;  v.  5,  4,  7  ff. ;  xii.  7,  1,  1 ;  xii.  8,  3,  1  ff. 

The  son  of  Tvashtri  is  mentioned  in  two  passages  of  the  Rig-veda. 
In  x.  8,  8,  it  is  said :  Sa  pitrydni  dyudhdni  vidvtin  indreshitah  Aptyo 
abhy  ayudhyat  \  trislrshdnam  saptarasmim  jaghanvdn  Tvashtrasya  chin 
nih  sasrije  Trito  gdh  \  9.  Bhuri  id  Eidrah  udinakskantam  ojo  avdlhinat 
satpatir  manyamdnam  \  Tvashtrasya  chid  Visvarupasya  gondm  dcha- 
Jcrdnas  trlni  slrshd  para  varJc  \  "  This  Trita  Aptya,  knowing  his 
paternal  weapons,  and  impelled  hy  Indra,  fought  against  the  three- 
headed  and  seven-rayed  (monster),  and  slaying  him,  he  carried  off  the 
cows  even  of  the  son  of  Tvashtri.  9.  Indra,  the  lord  of  the  good, 
pierced  this  arrogant  being,  who  boasted  of  his  great  force  ;  seizing  the 
cows,  he  struck  off  the  three  heads  even  of  Visvarupa  the  son  of 
Tvashtri  (or  of  the  omniform  son  of  Tvashtri)."  (Compare  ii.  11,  19). 
A  loud-shouting  monster  with  three  heads  and  six  eyes,  perhaps  iden- 
tical with  the  son  of  Tvashtri,  is' also  mentioned  in  x.  99,  6,  as  having 
been  overcome  by  Indra  or  Trita  (sa  id  ddsam  tuviravam  patir  dan 
shalaksham  trislrshdnam  damanyat  \  asya  Trito  nu  ojasd  vridhu.no  vipd 
vardham  ayoagrayd  han}. 

Visvarupa  is  frequently  mentioned  in  later  works. 

According  to  the  Taittirlya  Sanhita,  ii.  5,  1,  1  ff.,  he  was  the  priest 
of  the  gods,  while  he  was  sister's  son  (no  further  genealogy  is  given) 
of  the  Asuras.356  He  had  three  heads,  called  respectively  the  soma- 

336  I  subjoin  a  passage  from  the  same  Sanhita,  vi.  4,  10,  1  (p.  49  of  India  Office 
MS.,  No.  170?),  relating  to  the  gods  and  Asuras,  their  original  ^quality  in  good- 
ness  and  power,  and  their  respective  priests.  Brihaspatir  devanam  purohitah 
astt  sandamarkav  asuranhm  \  brahmanvanto  devah  asan  brahmanvanto  'surah  \  te 
'nyonyam  nasaJcnuvann  abhibhavitum  \  te  devah  sandamarkav  upamantrayanta  \ 
tdv  abrutam  "varam  vrinavahai  grahav  eva  nav  atrapi  grihyetam"  iti  \  tabhyam 
etau  sukramantMnav  agrihnan  \  tato  devah  devah  abhavan  para  'surah  \  yasyaivam 
vidushah  sukramanthinau  grihyete  bhavaty  atmana  para  asya  bhratrivyo  bhavati  \ 
fau  devah  apanudya  atmana  Indrayajuhuvuh  \  ityadi  \  "  Brihaspati  was  the  priest  of 
the  gods,  S'anda  and  Marka  the  priests  of  the  Asuras.  The  gods  were  devout 
and  so  were  the  Asuras.  Neither  could  overcome  the  other.  ^The  gods  invited 
S'anda  and  Marka,  who  said,  '  Let  us  ask  a  favour ;  let  draughL  also  he  offered 
to  us.'  The  gods,  in  consequence,  allowed  to  them  the  s"ukra  and  manthin  draughts, 
and  by  doing  so  became  gods,  and  the  Asuras  were  worsted.  The  man  who  knows 
this  and  acts  accordingly  prospers  himself^  and  his  enemy  succumbs.  The  gods 
sent  away  S'anda  and  Marka  and  offered  up  themselves  to  Indra."  Compare  the 
S'at.  Br.  iv.  2,  1,  4  ff.  According  to  the  Kathaka  25,  7,  quoted  in  Indische  Studien 


HOSTILITY  OF  INDRA  AND  TVASHTRI.  231 

• 

drinker,  the  wine-drinker,  and  the  food-eater.  He  declared  in  public 
that  the  sacrifices  should  be  shared  by  the  gods  only,  while  he  privately 
recommended  that  they  should  be  offered  to  the  Asuras.  For,  as  the 
author  of  the  Bfrahmana  remarks,  it  is  customary  for  people  in  public 
to  promise  every  one  a  share,  whereas  it  is  only  those  to  whom  the 
promise  is  privately  made  who  obtain  its  fulfilment.  Indra  was 
alarmed  lest  his  dominion  should  by  this  procedure  of  Yisvarupa  be 
overturned,  and  he  accordingly  smote  off  his  heads  with  a  thunderbolt. 
The  three  heads  were  turned  into  birds,  the  one  called  Soma-drinker 
became  a  Kapinjala  (or  Francoline  partridge),  the  Wine-drinker  a 
Kalavinka  (or  sparrow),  and  the  Food-eater  a  Tittiri  (or  partridge),  etc. 
( Visvarupo  vai  Tvdshtrah  purohito  devdndm  visit  svasriyo  'surandm  \ 
tasya  trini  slrshdny  dsan  somapdnam  surdpdnam  annddanam  \  sa  prat- 
yaksham  devebhyo  bhdgam,  avadat  paroksham  asurebhyah  \  sarvasmai 
pratyaksham  bhdgam  vadanti  \  yasmai  eva  paroksham  vadanti  tasya 
bhdgah  uditah  \  tasmdd  Indro  'bibhed  idrin  vai  rdshtram  pavydvarttayati 
iti  tasya  vajram  dddya  slrshdny  achhinat  \  yat  somapdnam  dslt  sa  kapin- 
jalo  'bhavat  \  yat  surdpdnam  sa  kalavinkah  \  yad  annddanam  sa  tittirih}. 
The  S'atapatha  Brahmana  tells  the  story  in  some  respects  at  greater 
length,  i.  6,  3,  1  ff. :  Tvaslitur  ha  vai puttras  trislrshdh  shadakshah  dsa  \ 
tasya  trlny  eva  mukhdny  asm  tad  yad  evamrupah  dsa  tasmdd  Visvarupo 
ndma  \  2.  Tasya  somapdnam  eva  ekam  mukham  dsa  \  surdpdnam  ekam  \ 
anyasmai  asandya  ekam  \  tarn  Indro  didvesha  tasya  tdni  slrshdni  pra- 
chichheda  \  3.  Sa  yat  somapdnam  dsa  tatah  kapinjalah  samabhavat  \ 
tasmdt  sa  babhmkah  iva  babhrur  iva  hi  somo  rdjd  \  4.  Aiha  yat  surd- 
pdnam dsa  tatah  kalavinkah  samabhavat  \  so  'bhimddyatkah  iva  vadati  \ 
abhimddyann  iva  hi  surdm  pltvd  vadati  \  5.  Atha  yad  anyasmai  asandya 
dsa  tatas  tittirih  samabhavat  \  tasmdt  sa  visvariipatamah  iva  \  santy  eva 
ghritastokdh  iva  tvad  madhiistokdh  iva  tvat  parneshv  dschutitdh  \  evam- 
riipam  hi  sa  tena  asanam  dvayat  \  6.  Sa  Tvashtd  chukrodha  ll  kuvin  me 
putram  avadhld"  iti  so  'pendram  eva  somam  djahre  \  sa  yathd  ''yam 
somah  prasutah  evam  apendrah  eva  dsa  \  7.  Indro  ha  vai  ikshdnchakrV 

,  » 

iii.   467  (comp:#e  Asv.  S'rauta  Sutras,  i.  4,  9),  the  gods  had  four  hotri  priests, 

Bhupati,  Bhuvanapati,  Bhutanamp^ti,  and  Bhuta,  of  whom  the  first  three  died  from 
discharging  their  duty,  when  the  fourth  became  afraid  and  fled,  e*c.  Professor  Weber 
compares  the  story]  about  Agni,  quottJd  above,  p.  203,  from  the  Taitt.  S.  On  the 
original  equality  of  the  gods  and  Asuras  see  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work;  pp.  51  ff.,  and 
note  22,  p.  15,  above. 


232  HOSTILITY  OF  INDEA  AND  TVASHTRI. 

• 

"  idam  vai  ma  somdd  antaryanti"  iti  \  sa  yathd  balzydn  aballyasah  evatn 
anupahutah  eva  yo  dronakalase  sukrah  dsa  tarn  bhakshaydnchakdra  \  sa  ha 
enamjihimsa  \  so  'sya  visvann  eva  pranelhyo  dudrava  mukhddha  eva  asya 
atha  sarvebhyo  'nyebhyahprdnebhyah  \  8.  Sa  Tvashtd  chukfodha  "kuvidme 
Anupahutah  somam  abhakshad"  iti  \  sa  svayam  eva  yajnavesasam  chakre  \ 
sa  yo  dronakalase  sukrah  parisishtah  dsa  tarn  pravarttaydnchakara 

11  Indra-satrur  vardhasva"  iti |  '10.  Atha  yad  &bravld  Indra-satrur 

vardhasva  "  iti  tasmdd  u  ha  enam  Indrah  eva  jaghdna  \  atha  yad  ha 
sasvad  avakshad  l(  Indrasya  satrur  vardhasva  "  iti  sasvad  u  ha  sa  eva 
Indram  ahanishyat  \  "  Tvashtri  had  a  son  with,  three  heads  and  six 
eyes,  who  had  three  mouths ;  and  hence  was  called  Yisvarupa  (Omni- 
form).  2.  One  of  his  mouths  was  the  Soma-drinker,  the  second  the 
Wine-drinker,  and  the  third  was  destined  for  consuming  other  things. 
Indra  hated  this  Yisvarupa,  and  cut  off  his  three  heads.  3.  From  the 
Soma-drinker  sprang  a  Kapinjala  (Francoline  partridge) ;  and  hence 
this  bird  is  brown,  because  king  Soma  is  of  that  colour.  4.  From  the 
Wine-drinker  sprang  a  Kalavinka  (sparrow) ;  and  in  consequence  this 
bird  utters  sounds  like  a  drunkard,  just  as  a  person  does  who  has  drunk 
wine.  5.  From  the  third  mouth  sprang  a  Tittiri  (common  partridge), 
which  in  consequence  has  the  greatest  variety  of  colours,  for  drops  of 
ghee  and  of  honey  seem  to  be  sprinkled  in  different  places  on  its  wings : 
for  by  this  mouth  he  (Yisvarupa)  received  such  sorts  of  food.  6. 
Tvashtri  was  incensed ;  and  saving  "  He  has  killed  my  son,"  he  offered 
a  libation  of  soma  to  the  gods,  excluding  Indra.  7.  Indra  perceived 
that  he  was  excluded  from  partaking  the  soma,  and  as  a  stronger  acts 
towards  a  weaker  being,  he  without  invitation  drank  off  the  purified 
soma  in  the  vessel.  But  it  affected  him  injuriously  ;  it  issued  from  his 
mouth  and  then  from  all  the  other  outlets  of  his  body.  8.  Tvashtri  was 
angry  that  Indra  had  drunk  the  soma  without  invitation ;  and  himself 
broke  off  the  sacrifice,  employing  the  soma  which  was  left  in  the  vessel 
(in  another  rite)  using  the  formula  '  Thou  of  whom  Indra  is  the  enemy, 
flourish! '  10.  As  he  used  the  words  accented  so  as  to  produce  this 
sense,  Indra  slew  him.  n  Had  he  said  '  Flourish,  enemy  of  Indra,'  he 
would  have  slain  Indra,  instead  of  Indra  slaying  him." 

The  version  of  the  same  legend  from  the  Kathaka,  12,  10,  in  Indische 
Studien,  iii.  464,  gives  some  other  particulars ;  Indra  was  afraid  that 
Yisvarupa  was  going  to  become  everything  ("  all  this  ":  sa  Indro  'man- 


HOSTILITY  OF  INDRA  AND  TVASHTRI.  233 

yatd  "  ay  am  vava  idam  lhavishyati),  and  he  accordingly  prevailed  on  a 
carpenter  to  run  and  cut  off  his  heads,  which  the  artizan  accordingly  did 
with  his  axe  (sa  takshanam  tishthantam  abravtd  "  adhava  asya  imdni 
slrshani  chhindki"  \  tasya  taksha  upadrutya  para&md  sirshdny  achhinaf). 

Compare  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  i.  6,  3,  1  ff. ;  v.  5,  4,  2  ff. ;  and 
the  Mahabharata,  TJdyoga  Parva,  228  ff. 

In  the  Markand^ya  Purana,  sgction  77,  Tvashtri  is  identified  with 
Yisvakarman  and  Prajapati.  Compare  verses  1,  10,  15,  16,  34,  36, 
38,  and  41.  Professor  "Weber  (Omina  und  Portenta,  p.  391  f.)  refers 
to  a  passage  of  the  Adbhutadhyaya  of  the  Kausika  Sutras,  where 
Tvashtri  is  identified  with  Savitri  and  Prajapati. 


234 


SECTION  XY. 

t  M 

THE  ASTINS. 

(1)  The  character  and  parentage  of  the  Asvins,  their  relations  to  Surya, 
their  attributes  and  accompaniments. 

The  Asvins  seem  to  have  been  a  puzzle  even  to  the  oldest  Indian 
commentators.  Yaska  thus  refers  to  them  in  the  Nirukta,  xii.  1 : 

Atha  ato  dyusthdndh  devatdh  \  tdsdm  Asvinau  prathamdguminau 
lhavatah  \  Asvinau  yad  vyasnuvate  sarvaih  rasena  anyo  jyotishu  anyah  \ 
"Asvair  asvindv"  ity  Aurnabhdvah  \  tat  kdv  Asvinau  \  "  Dydvdprithi- 
vydv"  ity  eke  \  "ahordtrdv"  ity  eke  \  "  Surydchandramasdv  "  ity  eke  \ 
"rdjdnau  punyalcritdv  "  ity  aitihdsikdh  \  tayoh  hdlah  urddham  urdh- 
vardtrdt  prahdsllhavasya  anuvishhtamlham  anu  \  tamobhdgo  hi  ma- 
dhyamo  jyotirlhdgah  ddityah  \  5.  Tayoh  kdlah  suryodayaparyantah  \ 

"Next  in  order  are  the  deities  whose  sphere  is  the  heaven ;  of  these 
the  Asvins  are  the  first  to  arrive.  They  are  called  Asvins  because 
they  pervade  (vyasnuvdte}  everything,  the  one  with  moisture,  the  other 
with  light.  Aurnabhava  says  they  are  called  Asvins,  from  the  horses 
(asvaih,  on  which  they  ride).  Who,  then,  are  these  Asvins  ?  'Heaven 
and  Earth,' 35'  say  some;  'Day  and  Night,'  say  others;  'The  Sun  and 
Moon,'  say  others  ;  '  Two  kings,  performers  of  holy  acts,'  say  the 
legendary  writers.  Their  time  is  subsequent  to  midnight,  whilst  the 
manifestation  of  light  is  delayed ;  [and  ends  with  the  rising  of  the 
sun,  ibid.  xii.  5].  The  dark  portion  [of  this  time]  denotes  the  inter- 
mediate (god^  Indra?),  the  light  portion  Aditya  (the  Sun)."358 

857  Compare  S.  P.  Br.  iv.  1,  5,  16,  A.tha  yad  "Asvinav"  iti  ime<\a  vai  dyava- 
prithivl  pratyaksham  asvinau  \  ime  hi  idam  sarvafii  asnuvatam  \  "The  Heaven  and 
Earth  are  manifestly  4he  As'vins,  for  they  (Heaven  and  Earth)  have  pervaded  every- 
thing." 

358  See  the  different  interpretation  given  by  Professor  Goldstiicker,  at  the  close  of 
this  section.  The  words  are  obscure. 


CHARACTER  AND  PARENTAGE  OF  THE  AS'VINS,  ETC.    235 

Professor  Roth,  on  the  strength  of  this  passage,  considers  that 
Yaska  identifies  the  two  Asvins  with  Indra  and  the  Sun  (Illustrations 
of  JTCrukta,  p.  159).359 

In  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  iv.  425,  the  same 
author  thus  speaks  of  these  gods:  "The  two  Asvins,  though,  like  the 
ancient  interpreters  of  the  Veda,  we  are  by  no  means  agreed  as  to  the 
conception  of  thek  character,  bold,  nevertheless,  a  perfectly  distinct 
position  in  the  entire  body  of  the  Yedic  deities  of  light.  They  are  the 
earliest  bringers  of  light  in  the  morning  sky,  who  in  their  chariot 
hasten  onward  before  the  dawn,  and  prepare  the  way  for  her."  36° 

In  a  passage  of  the  R.Y.,  x.  17,  2  (quoted  above  in  the  section  on 
Tvashtri,  p.  227),  the  Asvins  are  represented  as  the  twin  sons  of  Yi- 
vasvat  and  Saranyu.  They  are  also  called  the  sons  of  the  sky  (divo 
napata]  in  E.Y.  i.  182,  1  ;  i.  184,  I;361  x.  61,  4;  and  in  i.  46,  2, 
sindhumqtara,  the  offspring  of  the  Ocean362  (whether  aerial  or  terres- 
trial). 

The  Taitt.  S.  vii.  2,  7,  2,  says  that  the  Asvins  are  the  youngest  of 
the  gods  (asvinau  vai  devunum  anujavarau). 

In  i.  180,  2,  the  sister  of  the  Asvins  is  mentioned,  by  whom  the 
commentator  naturally  understands  Ushas  (svasristhdniya  svayaihsarinl 
va  ushdh}.  In  vii.  71,  1,  and  elsewhere  (see  above,  p.  188,  191), 
Ushas  is  called  the  sister  of  Night,  whilst  in  i.  123,  5,  she  is  said 
to  be  the  sister  of  Bhaga  and  Varuna. 

The  Asvins  are  in  many  parts  of  the  Rig-veda  connected  with 
Surya,  the  youthful  daughter  of  the  sun  (called  also  Urjanl  in  one 

359  R.V.  i.  181,  4,  is,  according  to  Roth,  quoted  by  Yaska  in  iftustration  of  his 
view  :  "  Born  here  and  there  these  two  have  striven  fbiVard  (?)  with  spotless  bodies 
according  to  their  respective  characters.    One  of  you,  a  conqueror  and  a  sage,  [is  the 
son]  of  the  strong  one  (?) ;  the1  other  is  born  onward,  the  son  of  the  sky"  (ihehajata 
samavavasltam    arepasa  tanva  namabhih  svaih    \  jishnur  vain    anyah  sumakhasya 
surir  divo  anyah  subhagah  putrah  uhe}.     Compare  Roth's  transl.  in  Illustrations  of 
Nirukta,  p.  159. 

360  For  some  speculations  of  Professor  Miiller  and  Weber,  on  the  Asvins,  see  fhe 
lectures  of  the  former,  2nd  series,  p.  489  f.,  and  the  Jndische  Studien  of  the  latter, 
vol.  v.  p.  234  f 

361  In  i.  181,  4,  only  one  of  them  is  said  to  be  the  son  of  the  sky.  See  note  369,  above. 

362  On  this  the  commentator  remarks  that,  although  it  is  tie  Sun  and  Moon  that 
are  sprung  from  the  sea,  yet  the  same"  epithet  applies  equally  to  the  Asvins  who,  in 
the  opinion  of  some,  are  identical  with  the  former  (yadyapi  surya-chandramasav  eva 
mmudrajau  tathapy  Asvinoh  keshanchit  mate  tadrupatvat  tathatvam). 


236      CHARACTER  AND  PARENTAGE  OF  THE  AS'VINS, 

place,  i.  119,  2,  as  Sayana  understands  it,  suryasya  duhitd},3<*  who  is 
represented  as  having,  for  the  sake  of  acquiring  friends,  chosen  them 
for  her  two  husbands,  i.  119,  5  (a  vdm  patitvam  sakhydya  jagmushi 
yoshd  'vrinita  jenyd  yuvdm  patl};  iv.  43,  6  (tad  u  shu  vdm  ajiram  cheti 
ydnam  yena  patl  bhavathah  SurydydJi) ;  vii.  69,  3  (vi  vam  ratho  vadhvd 
yddamdnah  antdn  divo  Iddhate  varttanibJiydm)  ;  x.  39,  11,  na  tarn 
rdjdndv  Adite  kutas  chana  na  amhah  ainoti  duritam  nalcir  bhayam  \  yam 
Asvind  suhavd  rudravarttam  puroratham  krinuthah  patnyd  saha  \ 
"  Neither  distress,  nor  calamity,  nor  fear  from  any  quarter  assails  the 
man  whom  ye  Asvins,  along  with  [your]  wife,  cause  to  lead  the  van 
in  his  car;"  36t  and  as  loving  to  ascend  their  chariot,  i.  34,  5  ;  i.  116, 
17;  i.  117,  13  (yuvo  ratham  duhitd  suryasya  saha  sriyd  Ndsatyd 
'vrinita');  i.  118,  5  (a  vdm  ratham  yuvatis  tishthad  atra  jushtvl  nard 
duhitd  Suryasya}  ;  iv.  43,  2  ;  v.  73,  5  (a  yad  vdm  Suryd  ratham 
tishthat,  etc.);  vi.  63,  5  f.  ;  vii.  68,  3;  vii.  69,  4;  viii.  8,  10;  viii. 
22,  1  ;  viii.  29,  S.365 

E.V.  i.  116,  17,  is  as  follows  :  «  vdm  ratham  duhitd  suryasya  kdr- 
shmevdtishthad  arvatd  jayantl  \  visve  devdh  anv  amanyanta  hridbhih 
(tsam  Sriyd  Ndsatyd  sachethe"  |  "The  daughter  of  the  sun  stood 
upon  your  chariot,  attaining  first  the  goal,  as  if  with  a  race-horse- 
All  the  gods  regarded  this  with  approbation  in  their  hearts  (exclaiming) 
'  Te,  o  Nasatyas,  associate  yourselves  with  good  fortune.'  "  On  this 
passage  Sayana  remarks  as  follows  :  Savitd  sva-dtihitaram  Surydkhydm 
Somdya  rdjne  praddtum  aichhat  \  turn  Surydm  sarve  devdh  varaydmdsuh  \ 
te  anyonyam  uchur  "Adityam  avadhim  kritvd  djim  dhdvdma  yo  asmdlcam 
ujjeshyati  tasya  iyam  bhavishyati"  iti  \  tatra  Asvindv  udajayatdm  \  sd 
cha  Suryd  juavatas  tayoh  ratham  druroha  \  "  atra  Prajdpatir  vai 
somdya  rdjne  duhitaram  prdyachhad"  ityddikam  brdhmanam  anusandhe- 
yam  \  "  S'avitri  had  destined  his  daughter  Surya  to  be  the  wife  of  king 
Soma.  But  all  the  gods  were  anxious  to  obtain  her  hand,  and  resolved 
that  the  victor  in  a  race  which  they  agreed  to  run,  with  the  sun  for 
thsir  goal,  should  get  her.  She  was  accordingly  won  by  the  Asvins, 
and  ascended  their  chariot."  Sayana  goes  on  to  quote  Ijhe  commence- 

c, 
• 

363  Professor  Roth,  f.v.,  takes  the  word  for  a  personification  of  urj'd, l<  nourishment." 

364  The  construction  of  the  words  patnya  s<rha,  "  with  wife,"  is  not  however  very 
clear,  as  they  may  perhaps  refer  to  the  wife  of  the  worshipper. 

«5  See  also  A.V.  vi.  82,2. 


THEIR  RELATIONS  TO  OTHER  DEITIES,  ETC.  237 

ment  of  the  story,  as  told  in  the  Brahmana.  The  words  agree  with 
those  which  introduce  a  reference  to  Surya's  marriage  to  Soma  in  Ait. 
Br.  iv.  7,  but  the  story  there  told  (of  which  an  abstract  will  be  found 
in  a  note  further  on)  does  not  coincide  with  that  of  which  the  com- 
mentator gives  a  summary. 

Allusion  is  also  made  to  Surya  in  connection  with  the  Asvins  in 
x.  85,  9,  where,  however,  they  DO  longer  appear  as  her  husbands, — a 
fact  which  seems  to  involve  a  contradiction  between  the  passages  cited 
above,  and  this :  9.  Somo  vadhuyur  abhavat  Asvind  'stdm  ulhd  vara  \ 
Surydm  yat  patye  samsantim  manasd  Savitd  'daddt  \  14.  Yad  Asvind 
prichhamdndv  aydtam  trichakrena  vahatum  Surydydh  \  visve  devdh  anu 
tad  vdm  ajdnan  putrah  pitardv  avrimta  Pushd  \  "  Soma  was  the 
wooer,  the  Asvins  were  the  two  friends  of  the  bridegroom,366  when 
Savitri  gave  to  her  husband  Surya,  consenting  in  her  mind.  ;  14.  When 
ye  came,  Asvins,  to  the  marriage  procession  of  Surya,  to  make  en- 
quiries, all  the  gods  approved,  and  Pushan,367  as  a  son,  chose  you 
for  his  parents." 

The  daughter  of  the  Sun  is  connected  with  the  Soma  plant  in  ix.  1, 
6  (pundti  te  parisrutam  somam  suryasya  duhitd  \  "  The  Daughter  of 
the  Sun  purifies  thy  distilled  soma,"  etc;  and  in  ix.  113,  3,  she  is 
said  to  have  brought  it  after  it  had  been  expanded  by  the  rain  (par- 
janyavriddham  mahisham  tarn  suryasya  duhitd  "Iharat}. 

If  we  look  on  Soma  as  the  plant  of  that  name,  the  connection 
between  him  and  Surya  is  not  very  clear ;  but  if  Soma  be  taken  for 
the  moon,  as  he  evidently  appears  to  be  in  x.  85,  3  ("When  they 
crush  the  plant,  he  who  drinks  fancies  that  he  has  drunk  Soma ;  but 
no  one  tastes  of  him  whom  the  priests  know  to  be  Soma ;  "}368  it  is  not 
unnatural,  from  the  relation  of  the  two  luminaries,  that  he  should 
have  been  regarded  as  son-in-law  of  the  sun. 

The  Asvins  are  described  as  coming  from  afar,  from  the  sky  or  from 

the  lower  air,  and  are  besought  to  allow  no  other  worshippers  to  stop 

• 

366  Compare  A.V.  xi.  8,  1,  "When  Manyu  brought  his  bride  from  the  house  of 
Sankalpa,  who,  \7ere  the  bridegroom's  friends  ?  "  etc.  (yad  Manyur  jayam  avahat 
Sankalpasya  grihad  adhi  \  ke  asanjanyah  ke  varah  kah  u  jyeshthavaro  'bhavaf). 

J67  Weber  asks  (Ind.  S.  v.  183,  187,)  whether  Pushan  here  i$  not  meant  to  desig- 
nate Soma,  the  bridegroom.  In  vi.  5&,  4,  the  gods  are  said  to  have  given  Pushan  to 
Surya.  See  above  p.  179. 

368  See  at  the  close  of  the  next  section  on  Soma,  and  Weber's  Ind.  Stud.  v.  179. 


238      CHARACTER  AND  PARENTAGE  OF  THE  AS'VINS, 

them,  i.  22,  2  (divisprisa) ;  i.  44,  5  (a  no  yatam  divo  achha  prithivydh 
ma  vdm  anye  ni  yaman  devayantah)  ;  viii.  5,  30  (tena  no  vdjimvasu 
pardvatas  chid  dgatam]  ;  viii.  8,  3,  4,  7  (4.  A  no  yatam  divas  pari 
antarikshdf) ;  viii.  9,  2  ;  viii.  10,  1 ;  viii.  26,  17  ;  or  as  being  in,  or  arriv- 
ing from,  different  unknown  quarters,  whether  above  or  below,  far  or 
near,  and  among  different  races  of  men,  i.  184, 1 ;  v.  73, 1  (yad  adya  sthah 
pardvati  yad  arvdvati] ;  v.  74,  10  (ab&nS.  yad  ha  karhi  chit  susruydtam 
imam  havani) ;  vii.  70,  3 ;  vii.  72,  5  (a  paschdtdd  ndsatyd  d  purastdd  d 
asvind  yatam  adhardd  udaktdt  \  d  visvatah)  ;  viii.  10,  5  (yad  adya 
asvindv  apdg  yat  prdk  stho  vdjinivasu  \  yad  Druhyavi  Anavi  Turvase 
Yadau  huve  vdm  atha  md  dgatam) ;  viii.  62,  5.  Sometimes  the  wor- 
shipper enquires  after  their  locality,  v.  74,  2,  3 ;  vi.  63,  1 ;  viii.  62,  4 
(kuha  sthah  kuha  jagmathuh  kuha  syeneva  petathuh).  In  one  place 
(viii.  8,  23,)  they  are  said  to  have  three  stations  (trini  paddni  Asvinor 
dvih  santi  guhd  parah).  The  time  of  their  appearance  is  properly  the 
early  dawn,  when  they  yoke  their  horses  to  their  car  and  descend  to 
earth  to  receive  the  adorations  and  offerings  of  their  votaries,  i.  22,  1 
(prdtaryujd  vi  lodhaydsvinau)  ;  i.  184,  1;  iv.  45,  2;  vii.  67,  2;  vii. 
69,  5;  vii.  71,  1-3  ;  vii.  72,  4;  vii.  73,  1 ;  viii.  5,  1,  2 ;  viii.  9,  17; 
x.  39,  12;  x.  40,  1,  3  ;  x.  41,  1,  2;  x.  6i,  4).  I  cite  a  few  of  these 
texts :  vii.  67,  2.  Asochi  Agnih  samidhdno  asme  upo  adriiran  tamasas 
chid  antdh  \  acheti  ketur  ushashah  purastdt  iriye  divo  duhitur  jdyamd- 
nah  |  3.  Abhi  vdm  nunam  asvind  suhotd  stomaih  sishakti  ndsatyd  vivak- 
vdn  |  "Agni,  being  kindled,  has  shone  upon  us;  even  the  remotest 
ends  of  the  darkness  have  been  seen ;  the  light  in  front  of  Ushas,  the 
daughter  of  the  sky,  has  been  perceived,  springing  up  for  the  illumi- 
nation (of  all  things).  3.  Now,  Asvins,  the  priest  invokes  you  with 
his  hymns,"  etc. 

viii.  5,  1.  Durdd  iheva  yat  sail  arunapsur  asisvitat  \  vi  Ihdnuih 
visvadhd  'tanat  \  2.  Nrivad  dasrd  manoyujd  rathena  prithupdjasd  \ 
sachethe  Asvind  Ushasam  \  "When  the  rosy-hued  Dawn,  though  far 
away,  gleams  as  if  she  were  near  at  hand,  she  spreads  the  light  in  all 
directions.  2.  Ye,  wonder-working  Asvins,  like  men,  follow  after 
Ushas  in  your  car  which  is  yoked  by  your  will,  and  shines'  afar." 

viii.  9,  17.  Pra  lodhaya  Ushah  Asvind  \  ""Wake,  o  great  and  divine 
TJshas,  the  Asvins,"  etc. 

x.  39,  12.  A  tena  ydtam  manaso  javlyasd  ratham  yam  vdm  Eibhavas 


THEIR  RELATIONS  TO  OTHER  DEITIES,  ETC.  239 

chalcrur  Asvind  \  yasya  yoge  duhitd  jdyate  Divah  ulhe  ahanl  sudine 
vivasvatah  \  "  Come,  Asvins,  with  that  car  swifter  than  thought  which 
the  Ribhus  fashioned  for  you,  at  the  yoking  of  which  the  daughter  of 
the  sky  (TJshas)  is  born,  and  day  and  night  become  propitious  to  the 
worshipper." 

x.  61,4.  Krishna  yad  gosJiu  arumshu  sldad  Divo  napdtdv  Asvind  Jiuve 
vdm  \  ""When  the  dark  [night]  ftands  among  the  tawny  cows  (rays 
of  dawn),  I  invoke  you,  Asvins,  sons  of  the  Sky." 

In  i.  34,  10,  Savitri  is  said  to  set  their  shining  car  in  motion  before 
the  dawn  (yuvor  hi  purvafh  Savitd  uskaso  ratham  ritdya  chitram 
ghritavantam  ishyati}. 

In  other  passages  their  time  is  not  so  well  denned.  Thus,  in  i.  157, 
1,  it  is  said  :  abodhi  Agnirjmah  udeti  suryo  vi  Ushds  chandrd  mahl  dvo 
archishd  \  ayukshdtdm  asvind  ydtave  ratham  prdsdvld  devah  Savitdjagat 
prithak  \  "  Agni  has  awoke ;  the  sun  rises  from  the  earth ;  the  great 
and  bright  Ushas  has  dawned  with  her  light ;  the  Asvins  have  yoked 
their  car  to  go ;  the  divine  Savitri.  has  enlivened  every  part  of  the 
world,"  where  both  the  break  of  dawn  and  the  appearance  of  the 
Asvins  appear  to  be  made  simultaneous  with  the  rising  of  the  sun. 
The  same  is  the  case  in  vii.  72,  4 :  vi  cha  id  uchhanti  asvind  ushasah 
pra  vdm  Irahmdni  kdravo  lharante  \  urdhvam  Ihdnum  Savitd  devo  asred 
trihad  agnayah  samidhd  jar  ante  \  "The  Dawns  break,  Asvins;  poets 
offer  to  you  prayers ;  the  divine  Savitri  has  assumed  his  lofty  bril- 
liance; fires  crackle  mightily,  (fed  by)  fuel." 

In  v.  76,  3,  the  Asvins  are  invited  to  come  at  different  times,  at 
morning,  mid-day,  and  sunset  (uta  d  ydtam  sangave  prdtar  ahno  madhy- 
andine  uditd  suryasya) ;  and  in  viii.  22,  14,  it  is  similarly  said  that 
they  are  invoked  in  the  evening  as  well  as  at  dawn.  It  need  not, 
however,  surprise  us  that  they  should  be  invited  to  attend  the  different 
ceremonies  of  the  worshippers,  and  therefore  conceived  to  appear  at 
hours  distinct  from  the  supposed  natural  periods  of  their  manifestation. 

It  may  seem  unaccountable  that  two  deities  of  a  character  so  little 
defined,  and  so^difficult  to  identify,  as  the  A«vins,  should  have  been 
the  object  oik  so  enthusiastic ta  worship  as  appears  from  the  numerous 
hymns  dedicated  to  them  in  the  R.V.  to  have  been  ,paid  to  them  in 
ancient  times.  The  reason  may1  have  been  that  they  were  hailed  as 
the  precursors  of  returning  day,  after  the  darkness  and  dangers  of 


240      CHARACTER  AND  PARENTAGE  OF  THE  AS'VINS, 

the  night.  In  some  passages  (viii.  35,  16  ff.)  they  are  represented  as 
being,  like  Agni,  the  chasers  away  of  evil  spirits  (hatam  rakshdmsi} ; 
vii.  73,  4  (rafahohana}. 

The  Asvins  are  said  to  be  young,  yuvdnd  (vii.  67,  10),  ancient, 
pratnd  (vi.  62,  5),  beautiful,  valgu  (vi.  62,  5 ;  vi.  63,  1),  honey-hued, 
madhuvarna  (viii.  26,  6),  lords  of  lustre,  Subhas  patl  (viii.  22,  14; 
x.  93,  6),  bright,  subhrd  (vii.  68,  1),.  of  a  golden  brilliancy,  hiranya- 
peSasd  (viii.  8,  2),  agile,  nritu  (vi.  63,  5),  fleet  as  thought,  manojavasti 
(viii.  22,  1 6)  swift  as  young  falcons,  syenasya  chij  j'avasd  nutanena 
a  gachhatam  (v.  78,  4),  possessing  many  forms,  puru  varpdmsi  Asvina 
dadhdnd  (i.  117,  9),  wearing  lotus  garlands,  pusJilcarasrajd  (x.  184, 
2,  and  A.Y.  iii.  22,  4,  S'atap.  Br.  iv.  1,  5,  16),  strong,  sakrd  (x. 
24,  4),  mighty,  purusakatama  (vi.  62,  5),  terrible,  rudra  (v.  75,  3 ; 
x.  93,  7),  possessed  of  wondrous  powers,  mdyind  or  mdydvind  (vi.  63, 
5;  x.  24,  4),  and  profound  in  wisdom,  gamlhirachetasd  (viii.  8,  2). 
They  rush  onward  excitedly,  madachyutd™9  (viii.  22,  16  ;  viii.  35,  19), 
and  traverse  a  golden,  hiranyavartanl,  or  terrible,  rudravartanl,  path 
(v.  75,  3;  viii.  5,  11 ;  viii.  8,  1;  viii.  22,  1,  14;  x.  39,  II).370 

The  car,  golden,  or  sunlike,  in  all  its  various  parts  and  appur- 
tenances, wheels,  fellies,  axle,  pole,  reins,  etc.,  i.  180,  1  (hir  any  ayah 
vdm  pavayah} ;  iv.  44,  4,  5  (hiranyayena  ratJiena] ;  v.  77,  3  (hiranyatvan 
rathah] ;  viii.  5,  28,  29,  35  (ratham  hiranyavandhuram  hiranydbhlsum 
A&vind  |  d  hi  sthdtho  divisprisam  \  29.  hiranyayl  vdm  rabhir  ishd  alcsJio 
hiranyayah  \  ublid  chakrd  hiranyaya) ;  viii.  8,  2  (rafllena  suryatvachd) ; 
viii.  22,  9,  on  which  they  ride,  flying  as  on  bird's  wings,  i.  183,  1 
(yenopayathah  sulcrito  duronam  tridhdtund  patatJio  vir  na  parnaih\  was 
formed  by  tne  Ribhus,  x.  39,  12  (see  above,  p.  238),  and  is  singular  in 
its  formation,  being  'three- wheeled  (trichakra}^  and  triple  in  some 

S69  Professof  Roth,  s.v.,  renders  this  epithet  by  "moying  in  excitement,"  etc.,  and 
Professor  Muller,  Trans,  of  R.V.  i.  p.  118,  translates  it,  when  applied  to  Indra,  his 
horses,  or  the  As'vins,  hy  "  furiously  or  wildly  moving  about." 

o  370  Two  epithets  very  commonly  applied  to  them  are  dasra  and  riasatya.  The 
former  term  is  explained  by  Sayana  to  signify  destroyers  of  enemies,  or  of  diseases 
(note  on  i.  3,  3),  or  beautiful  (on  viii,  75,  1).  Professor  Roth,  s.S,  understands  it  to 
signify  wonder-workers.  The  second  word,  nasa,fya,  is  regarded  by  Sayana,  follow- 
ing one  of  the  etymologies  given  by  Yaska  (vi.  13),  as  equivalent  to  satya,  truthful. 
If  this  is  the  sense,  satya  itself  might  as  wel.1  have  been  used.  In  the  later  literature 
Dasra  and  Nasatya  were  regarded  as  the  separate  names  of  the  two  As'vins.  See 
Muller's  Lectures,  2nd  series,  p.  491. 


THEIR  RELATIONS  TO  OTHER  DEITIES,  ETC.  241 

other  parts  of  its  construction,  its  fellies,  supports,  etc.  (trivrit  f  trivan- 
dhura  \  trayah  pavayah  \  trayah  skambhasah  skabhitasah  drabhe},311  i.  34, 
2,  9;  i.  47,  2;  i.  118,1,2;  i.  157,  3;  vii.  71.4;  viii.  74,  8 ;  x.41,  1. 
This  car  moves  lightly  (raghuvarttani\  viii.  9,  8,  and  is  swifter  than 
thought  (manaso  javiydn  rathah),  i.  117,  2  ;  i.  118,  1 ;  v.  77,  3  ;  vi.  63, 
7;  x.  39,  12,  or  than  the  twinkling  of  an  eye  (nimishaS  chij  javiyasd 
rathena\  viii.  62,  2.  It  is  decked  with  a  thousand  ornaments  and  banners 

e  * 

(sahasra-ketti,  sahasra-nirnij\  i.  119,  1 ;  viii.  8,  11, 14,  and  has  golden 
reins,  viii.  22,  5.  It  is  sometimes  said  to  be  drawn  by  a  single  ass,  as  the 
word  rdsabha 372  is,  in  one  place  at  least,  i.  34,  9,  expressly  explained 
by  the  commentator  (asvasthdmyasy a  gar dabhasya},313  i.  34,  9  ;  i.  116,  2  ; 
viii.  74,  7 ;  but  more  frequently  by  birds,  or  bird-like,  fleet-winged, 
golden-winged,  falcon-like,  swan-like  horses,  i.  46,  3  (yad  vdm  ratho 
vibhish  patat};  i.  117,  2  (rathah  svasvah)  ;  i.  118,  4  (a  vam  syendso 
asvind  vahantu  rathe  yuktaso  dsavah  patangdh)  ;  i.  180,  1  (suyamasah 
asvdh)  ;  i.  181,  2  (a  vam  asvdsah  suchayah  ....  vahantu} ;  iv.  45,  4 
(hamsdso  ye  vam,  madhumanto  asridho  hiranyaparndh)  •  v.  74,  9 ;  v.  75, 
5  (vibhis  Chyavdnam  Asvind  ni  ydthah] ;  vi.  63,  6,  7  (a  vam  vayah 

371  The  word  vandhura  is  variously  explained  by  Sayana  as  riidabandhanadhara- 
bhutam  (on  i.  34,  9),  unnatanatarupa-bandhana-kashtham  (on  i.  47,  2),  veshthitam 
saratheh  sthanam  (on  i.  118,  1),  sarathyas'raya-sthanam  (on  i.  157,  3),  sarathy- 
adhishthana-sthanam  (on  vii.  71,  4),  and  trivandhura  as  triphalakasanghatitena  (on 
viii.  74,  8).  The  epithet  would  thus  mean  either  (1)  having  three  perpendicular 
pieces  of  wood,  or  (2)  having  a  triple*  standing  piace  or  seat  for  the  charioteer.  In 
i.  34,  2,  the  chariot  is  said  to  have  three  props  fixed  in  it  to  lay  hold  of  (trayah 
skambhasah  skabhitasah  arabhe),  which  the  commentator  says  were  meant  to  secure 
the  rider  against  the  fear  of  falling  when  the  chariot  was  moving  rapidly.  This  ex- 
planation would  joincide  with  one  of  the  senses  assigned  to  vandhurn.  In  i.  181,  3, 
their  chariot  is  called  sripra-vandhurah,  which,  according  to  the  commentator,  is  = 
vistlrna-purobhagah,  "having  a  wide  fore-part." 

312  See  the  legend  in  the  Aitareya  Brahmana,  p.  270-273  of  Dr.  Haug's  trans- 
lation. It  is  there  related,  iv.  7-9,  that  at  the  marriage  Of  Soma  fnd  Surya,  the 
gods  ran  a  race  to  determine  to  which  of  them  the  as  vina  s'astra  should  belong.  The 
As'vins  gained  it,  though  some  other  deities  gained  a  share.  Agni  ran  the  race  in  a 
car,  drawn  by  mules  (asvatari-rathena  Agnir  ajim  adhavat),  TJshas  in  one  drawn  by 
ruddy  bulls  (gobhir  arunair  Ushah  ajim  adhavat),  Indra  in  one  drawn  by  horses 
(asvarathena  Ind'-^th  ajim  adhavat),  while  the  As'vins  Carried  off  the  prize  in  a  car 
drawn  by  asses*  (gardabha-rathena^  Asvina  itdajayatani).  Compare  R.V.  i.  116,  2, 
where  the  ass  is  said  to  have  won. 

373  Prof.  Benfey  in  a  note  on  i.  11 6,  2,  while  agreeing  in  this  sense,  refers  also  to 
iii.  53,  5,  where  as  well  as  in  viii.  74,  3,  Sayana  explains  the  word  as  meaning  a 
neighing  or  snorting  horse. 

16 


242      CHARACTER  AND  PARENTAGE  OF  THE  AS'VINS, 

asvdso  vahishthdh  abhi  prayo  ndsatyd  vahantu) ;  vii.  69,  7 ;  viii.  5,  7, 
22,  33,  35  (tuyam  syenelhir  dsulhih  \  ydtam  asvebhir  Asvind  \  yad 
vdm  ratho  vilhish  patdt  \  d  iha  vdm  prushitapsavo  vayo  vahantu  parni- 
nah  |  dravatpdnilhir  asvaih} ;  x.  143,  5.  They  carry  a  honied  whip 
(kasd  madhumatl},  i.  122,  3;  i.  157,  4,374  and  their  car  traverses  the 
regions  (pra  rcdm  ratho  manojavdh  iyartti  tiro  rajdmsi\  vii.  68,  3. 

The  Asvins  are  fancifully  represented  in  i.  34,  1  ff.  as  doing,  or  as 
being  requested  to  do,  a  variety  of  acts  thrice  over,  viz.  to  move  thrice 
by  night  and  thrice  by  day,  (verse  2)  to  bestow  nourishment  thrice  at 
even  and  at  dawn,  (verse  3)  to  bestow  wealth  thrice,  (verse  5)  to  aid 
the  devotions  of  the  worshippers  thrice,  (ibid.)  to  bestow  celestial 
medicaments  thrice,  and  earthly  thrice  (verse  6),  etc. 

They  are  elsewhere  (ii.  39,  1  ff.)  compared  to  different  twin  objects  ; 
to  two  vultures  on  a  tree,  to  two  priests  reciting  hymns  (verse  1),  to 
two  goats,  to  two  beautiful  women  (mene  iva  tanvd  sumlhamdne),  to 
husband  and  wife  (verse  2),  to  two  ducks,  chakravdkd  (verse  3), 
to  two  ships  which  transport  men,  to  two  protecting  dogs  (verse  4), 
to  two  eyes,  two  hands,  two  feet  (verse  5),  to  two  sweetly-speaking 
lips,  two  breasts  yielding  nourishment,  two  nostrils,  two  ears  (verse  6), 
to  two  swans,  two  falcons,  two  deer,  two  buffaloes,  two  wings  of  one 
bird  (sdkamyujd  sakunasyeva  pakshd],  etc.,  etc.,  v.  78,  1-3  ;  viii.  35, 
7-9;  x.  106,  2ff. 

They  are  the  guardians  of  the  slow  and  the  hindmost,  and  of  the 
female  who  is  growing  old  unmarried  ;  they  are  physicians375  and  restore 
the  blind,  the  lame,  the  emaciated,  and  the  sick,  to  sight,  power  of 
locomotion,  health,  and  strength,  i.  34,  6;  i,  116,  16;  i.  157,  6;  viii. 
9,  6,  15;  viic.  18,  8;  viii.  22,  10;  viii.  75,  1  ;  x  39,  S,  5  (amdjuras. 
chid  bhavatho  ymam  Ih&go  andsos  chid  avitdrd  apamasya  chit  \  andhasya 
chit  ndsatyd  krisasya  chid  yuvdm  id  dhur  hhishajd  rutasya  chit}  • 
x.  40,  8.  Se^also  ^t.Y.  vii.  53,  1,  where  it  is  said  that  the  Asvins 
are  the  physicians  of  the  gods,  and  warded  off  death  from  the  wor- 

374  See  below  the  section  on  the  "progress  of  the  Vedic  religion,  etc."    Indra  has 
a  golden  whip,  viii.  33,  11.     •  , 

375  In  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  1,  2,  11,  the  As'vins  are  called  the  physicians  01  the  gods,  the 
bearers  of  oblations,  the  messengers  of  the  universe,  the  guardians  of  immortality 
(yau  devanam  bhishajau  havyavahau  visvasya  dutav  amritasya  gopau)  ;  and  in  that 
and  the  preceding  paragraph  (10)  they  are  connected  with  their  own  asterism  (nak- 
shatra),  the  As'vayuj. 


THEIR  RELATIONS  TO  OTHER  DEITIES,  ETC.  243 

shipper  (pratyauhatdm  asvind  mrityum  asmad  devdndm  Agne  Ihishajd 
Jachlbhih). 

They  place  the  productive  germ  in  all  creatures,  and  generate  fire, 
water  and  trees,  i.  157,  5  (yuvam  ha  garlham  jagatuhu  dhattho  yuvam 
visveshv  Ihuvaneshu  antah  \  yuvam  Agnim  cha  vrishandv  apas  cha  vanas- 
patln  asvindv  airayethdm).  They  are  connected  with  marriage,  pro- 
creation, and  lovej  x.  184,  2  (j=  A.Y.  v.  25,  3:  garlham  te  asvinau 
devdv  d  dhattdm  pushkarasraja] ;  x.  85,  26  (asvind  tvd  pravahatdm 
rathena  \  grihdn  gachha  grihapatm  yathd  'sah] ;  A.Y.  ii.  30,  2  (sam 
cJien  nayatho  asvind  Mmind  sam  cha  vakshathah  \  "  When,  ye,  Asvins, 
bring  together  two  lovers,"  etc.) ;  vi.  102,  1 ;  xiv.  1,  35  f. ;  xiv.  2,  5. 
See  Weber's  Indische  Studien  v.  218,  227,  234. 


(2)  Legends  regarding  various  persons  delivered  or  favoured  ly  the 

Asvins. 

• 

The  following  are  a  few  of  the  modes  in  which  the  divine  power  of 
the  Asvins  is  declared  in  different  hymns  to  have  been  manifested  for 
the  deliverance  of  their  votaries. 

When  the  sage  Chyavana  had  grown  old,  and  had  been  forsaken, 
they  divested  him  of  his  decrepit  body,  prolonged  his  life,  and  restored 
him  to  youth,  making  him  acceptable  to  his  wife,  and  the  husband  of 
maidens,  i.  116,  10  (jujurusho  ndsatyd  uti  vavrim  pramunchatam  drdpim 
iva  Chyavdndt  \  prdtiratam  jahitasydyur  dasrd  dd  it  patim  akrinutam 
Tcanlndm] ;  i.  117,  13  (yuvam  Chyavdnam  Asvind  jarantam  punar  yuvd- 
nam  chakrathuh  sachibhih} ;  i.  118,  6;  v.  74,  5  (pra  Chyavdndj  juju- 
rusho vavrim  atham  na  munchathah  \  yuvd  yadi  \riihaTi  punar  d  kdmam 
rinve  vadhvah] ;  vii.  68,  6;  vii.  71,  5  ;  x.  39,  4. 

This  legend  is  related  at  length  in  the  S'atapatha  Br§hmana  in  a 
passage  which  will  be  cited  further  on. 

In  the  same  way  they  renewed  the  youth  of  Kali 376  after  he  had 
grown  old,  x.  39,  8  (yuvam  viprasya  jarandm  upeyushah  punah  Kaler 
akrinutam  yuv-M  vayaK}\  compare  i.  112,  15,  where  they  are  said  to 
have  befriended  him  after  ho  had  married  a  wife  (Ealim  ydlhir  vitta- 
jdnim  duvasyathah). 

376  The  family  of  the  Kalis  is  mentioned,  viii.  55,  15. 


244       LEGENDS  REGARDING  VARIOUS  PERSONS 

They  brought  on  a  car  to  the  youthful  Vimada377  a  hride  named 
Kamadyu,  who  seems  to  have  heen  the  beautiful  wife  of  Puruinitra,  i. 
112,  19  (ydbhih  patnlr  Vimadaya  nyuhathuh  \  here  wives  are  men- 
tioned in  the  plural)  ;  i.  116,  1  (yd  arlhagaya  Vimadaya  jay  am  send- 
juvd  nyuhatuh]  ;  x.  65,  12  (Kamadyuvam  Vimadaya  uhathuh);  i.  117, 
20  (yuvam  sachlbhir  Vimadaya  jdydm  ni  Uhathuh  Purumitrasya  yoshdm) ; 
x.  39,  7  (yuvam  rathena  Vimadaya ,  sundhyuvam  ni  uhathuh  Puru- 
mitrasa  yoshandm}.  Sayana,  on  i.  117,  20,  makes  yoshdm  =  kumdrim, 
by  which  he  appears  to  intend  the  daughter  of  Purumitra,  who  he 
says  was  a  king.  But  yosha  seems  more  frequently  to  denote  a  wife. 

They  restored  Yishnapu,  like  a  lost  animal,  to  the  sight  of  Yisvaka, 
eon  of  Krishna,  their  worshipper,  who,  according  to  the  commentator, 
was  his  father,  i.  116,  23  (avasyate  stuvate  krishniydya  rijuyate  ndsatyd 
Sachlbhih  |  pasum  na  nashtam  iva  darsandya  Vishndpvam  dadathur 
Visvakdya);  i.  117,  7;  x.  65,  12. 

The  names  both  of  Yisvaka  and  Yishnapu  occur  in  R.Y.  viii.  75, 
1-3,  a  hymn  addressed  to  the  As,vins ;  and  the  commentator  (as  one 
explanation  of  the  passage)  connects  the  reference  there  made  to  the 
former  with  the  legend  before  us  (on  which,  however,  the  hymn  itself 
throws  no  light). 

Another  act  recorded  of  the  Asvins  is  their  intervention  in  favour  of 
Bhujyu,  the  son  of  Tugra,  which  is  obscurely  described  in  the  follow- 
ing verses  in  R.Y.  i.  116,  3  ff.  (Tugro  ha  Bhujyum  Asvind  udameghe 
rayim  na  Icaschit  mamrivdn  avdhdh  \  tarn  uhathur  naubhir  dtmanvatlbhir 
antarikshaprudlhir  apodakdbhih  \  4.  Tisrah  kshapas  trir  aha  ativra- 
jadbhir  ndsatyd  Bhujyum  uhathuh  patangaih  \  samudrasya  dhanvann 
drdrasya  pare  tribhih  rathaih  satapadbhih  shalasvaih  \  5.'  Andrambhan* 
tad  amrayethdm  andsifidne  agrabhane  samudre  \  yad  aivind  uhuthur 
Bhujyum  astam  satdritrdm  ndvam  dtasthivdmsam  \  "Tugra  abandoned 
Bhujyu  in  tlfe  water-cloud,  as  any  dead  man  leaves  his  property.  Ye, 
Asvins,  bore  him  in  animated  water-tight  ships,  which  traversed  the 
air.  4.  Three  nights  and  three  days  did  ye  convey  him  in  three  flying 
cars,  with  a  hundred  feef.  and  six  horses,  which  crossed  over  to  the  dry 
land  beyond  the  liquid  ocean.  5.  Ye  put  forth  your  \cgour  in  the 

n 

ocean,  which  offers  no  stay,  or  standing-place,  or  support,  when  ye 

377  A  rishi  of  this  name  is  mentioned,  R.V.  viii.  9,  15  ;  x.  20,  10  ;  x.  23,  7  ;  and  a 
family  of  Vimadas  in  x.  23,  6. 


DELIVERED  OR  FAVOURED  BY  THE  ASTINS.  245 

bore  Bhujyu  to  his  home,  standing  on  a  ship  propelled  by  a  hundred 
oars."  K.V.  i.  117,  14  f.  (yuvam  £hufyum  arnaso  nih  samudrdd  vibhir 
uhathur  rijrelhir  asvaih  \  15.  Ajohavld  aivind  Taugryo  vdm  prolhah 
samudram  avyathir  jaganvdn  \  nish  tarn  uhathuh  suyuj'd  rathena  manoja- 
vasd  vrishand  svasti  \  "  Ye  conveyed  Bhujyu  out  of  the  liquid  ocean 
with  your  headlong  flying  horses.  15.  The  son  of  Tugra  invoked  you, 
Asvins.  Borne  fosward,  he  mo\^d  without  distress  over  the  sea.  Ye 
brought  him  out  with  your  well-yoked  chariot  swift  as  thought." 
Again  in  i.  182,  5  ff.  it  is  said  :  yuvam  etam  chakrathuh  sindhushu 
plavam  dtmanvantam  palcshinam  Taugrydya  Jcam  \  6.  Avaviddham  Taug- 
ryam  apsu  antar  andrambhane  tamasi  praviddham  \  chatasro  ndvojatha- 
lasya  j'ushtdh  ud  asvibhgdm  ishitdh  pdrayanti  \  7.  Kah  svid  vriksho 
nishthito  madhye  arnaso  yam  Taugryo  nddhitah  paryashvajat  \  parnd 
mrigasya  pataror  ivdrabhe  ud  asvind  uhathuh  Sromatdya  kam  \  "Ye 
(Asvins)  made  this  animated,  winged,  boat  for  the  son  of  Tugra  among 
the  waters  ....  6.  Four  ships,378  eagerly  desired,  impelled  by  the 
Asvins,  convey  to  the  shore  Tugra,  who  had  been  plunged  in  the 
waters,  and  sunk  in  bottomless  darkness.  7.  "What  was  that  log, 
placed  in  the  midst  of  the  waves,  which,  in  his  straits,  the  son  of 
Tugra  embraced,  as  the  wings  of  a  flying  creature,  for  support  ? "  In 
vii.  68,  7,  Bhujyu  is  said  to  have  been  abandoned  by  his  his  malevo- 
lent companions  in  the  middle  of  the  sea  (uta  tyam  Bhujyum  Asvind 
aakhdyo  madhye  jahur  durevdsah  samudre).  The  story  is  also  alluded  to 
ini.  112,  6,  20;  i.  118,  6;  i.  119,  4;  i.  158,  3;  vi.  62,  6;  vii.  69, 
7;  viii.  5,  22;  x.  39,  4;  x.  40,  7  ;  x.  65,  12;  x.  143,  5. 

Again,  whe,n  Yispala's  leg  had  been  cut  off  in  battle,  Jike  the  wing 
of  a  bird,  the  Asvins  are  said  to  have  given  her  an  iron  one  instead, 
R.V.  i.  112,  10;  i.  116,  15  (chyritram  hi  ver  ivdchhedi  parnam  tijd 
Ifhelasya  paritakmydydm  \  sadyo  jangJidm  dyasim  Vtipaldyai  dhane  hite 
sartav e  praty  adhattam) ;  i.  117,  11;  i.  118,  8;  x.  39,  8.379 

They  restored  sight  to  Eijrasva,  who  had  been  made  blind  by  his 
cruel  father,  for  slaughtering  one  hundred  and  one  sheep,  and  giving 
them  to  a  she-  ,7olf  to  eat,  the  she- wolf  haviilg  supplicated  the  Asvins 
on  behalf  of  her  blind  bemefactor,  i.  116,  16;  i.  117,  17  f.  (satam 
meshdn  vrikye  mdmahdnam  tamah  pramtam  asivend  pitrd  \  d  akshl 

378  The  sense  oijathala  is  not  clear. 

379  Compare  the  word  vispalavasu  in  R.V.  i.  182,  1, 


246"       LEGENDS  REGARDING  VARIOUS  PERSONS 

rijrdive  aSvindv  adhattam  jyotir  andhdya  chakrathur  vichakshe  \  18. 
.S'unam  andhdya  lharam  ahvayat  sd  vriklr  asvind  "vrishand  nara"  iti  \ 
jar  ah  kanlnah  iva  chakshaddnah  Rijrdivah  satam  ekam  cha  meshdn).  A. 
person  called  Rrjrasva  is  mentioned  with  others  in  i.  100,  17,  as 
praising  India. 

They  restored  Paravrij  (or  an  outcast),  who  was  hlind  and  lame,  to 
sight  and  the  power  of  walking,  i.  112,  £  (ydlhih  sachllhir  vrishand 
'  Pardvrijam  pra  andhafh,  sronam  chakshase  etavc  h'ithah).     Paravrij  is 
connected  with  Indra  in  ii.  13,  12,  and  ii.  J5,  7. 

The  rishi  Rebha  has  been  hidden  by  the  malignant,  bound,  over- 
.whelmed  in  the  waters  (a  well,  according  to  the  commentator,)  for 
ten  nights  and  nine  days,  and  abandoned  till  he  was  nearly,  if  not 
entirely,  dead.  The  Asvins  drew  him  up  as  soma-juice  is  raised 
with  a  ladle,  i.  112,  5  (ydlhih  Relham  nivritam  sita-m  adbhyah  ud 
VandanaM  airayatam  svar  drise] ;  i.  116,  24  \dasa  r&lrir  asiveria  nava 
dyun  avenaddham  Snathitam  ap#u  antah  \  viprutam  Relhain  udani  pra- 
vriktam  un  ninyathiih  somam  iva  srhvena  \  Compare  i.  117,  12) ;  i.  117, 
4  (asvam  na  galham  Aivina  durevair  fishim  nara  vnshand  Rebham  apsu  \ 
tarn  sam  rinitho  viprutam  damsobhih} ;  i.  118,  6;  i.  119,  6;  x.  39,  9 
(yuvam  ha  Relham  trishand  guha  hitam  ud  airayatam  mamrivdmsam 
Asvind}.  -, 

Vandana  also  was  delivered  by  them  from  some  calamity,  the  nature 
of  which  does  not  very  clearjy  appear  from  most  of  the  texts,  and 
restored  to  the  light  of  the  sun,  i.  112,  5  ;  i.  116,  11;  i.  117,  5  ; 
i.  118,  6.  In  x.  39,  8,  they  are  said  to  have  raised  him  out  of  a  pit380 
(yuvam  Vandanam  risyaddd  ud  upathuTf).  According  to  i.  119,  6,  7, 
however,  he  would  appear  to  have  been  restored  from  decrepitude,  as  a 
chariot  is  repaired  by  an  artizan  ( pra  dlrghena  Vandanas  tdri  dyushd  \ 
7.  Yuvam  Vandanam  nirritamjara»yayd  ratham  na  dasrd  Jcarand  samin- 
vathaK). 

So,  too,  the  Asvins  bestowed  wisdom  on  their  worshipper  Kakshlvat, 
of  the  family  of  Pajra ;  and  performed  the  notable  miracle  of  causing 
a  huridred  jars  of  wine  and  honied  liquor  to  flow  forth  iiom  the  hoof  of 
their  horse  as  Srom  a  sieve,  i.  116,  7  (Yvvam  nara  stuvate  Pajriydya 
kakshlvate  aradatam  purandhim  \  kdrotardt  iaphad  aivasya  vrishnah 

380  The  word  risyada  is  explained  by  Messrs  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.,  as  a  pit 
for  snaring  deer. 

' 


DELIVERED  OR  FAVOURED  BY  THE  AS'VINS.  247 

satam  Jcumbhdn  asincTiatam  suraydK);  i.  117,  6  (tad  vdm  nard  sdmsyam 
Pajriyena  kaksTiwatd  ndsatyd  parijman  \  sapTidd  asvasya  vdjino  jandya 
satam  Tcumbhdn  asincTiatam  madhundm}. 

When  invoked  by  the  popular  sage  Atri  Saptavadhri,  who,  with  his 
companions,  had  been  plunged  by  the  malice  and  arts  of  evil  spirits 
into  a  gloomy  and  burning  abyss,381  they  speedily  came  to  his  assist- 
ance, mitigated  the  heat  with  cold,  and  supplie  d  him  with  nutriment 
so  that  his  situation  became  tolerable,  if  not  agreeable,  till  they 
eventually  extricated  him  from  his  perilous  position,  i.  112,  7  ;  i.  116, 
8  (Tiimendgnim  ghraihmm  avdrayetihdm  pitumatlm  urjam  asmai  adattam  \ 
riblse  Atrim  asvind  'vanitam  unninyathuK  sarvaganarh  svasti] ;  i.  117,  3 
(risTiim  nardv  amTiasah  pdncTiajanyam  riblsad  atrim  munchatho  ganena  \ 
minantd  dasyor  asivasya  mdydTi);  i.  118,  7;  i.  119,  6;  v.  78,  4-6 
(Atrir  yad  vdm  avarohann  riblsam  ajohavld  nddhamdneva  yoshd  \ 
syenasya  chij  javasd  nutanena  dgachhatam.  asvind  saiitamena) ;  vii.  71, 
5 ;  viii.  62,  3,  7-9  ;  x.  39,  9  (yuvam  fillsam  tita  taptam  -Atraye  oman- . 
vantam  chakrathuh  Saptavadhraye)'  In  x.  80,  3,  the  deliverance  of 
Atri  is  ascribed  to  Agni  (Agnir.  Atrim  gharme  wrushyad  antali). 

They  listened  to  the  invocation  of  the  wise  Yadhrimati,  and  gave 
her  a  son  called  Hiranyahasta,  i.  116,  13;  i.  117,  24  (Hiranyahas- 
tam  Asvind  rardnd  yutrnm  nara.  Vadhrimatyti  adattam) ;  vi. '  6*2,  7 ; 
x.  39,  7. 

They  gave  a  husband  to  Ghosha  when  she  was  growing  old  in,  her 
father's  house,  i.  117,  7  (Ghoshdyai  chit  pitrishade  durone  patim  jury- 
antyai  asvindv  adattam} ;  x.  39,  3,  6 ;  x.  40,  5  ;  and,  according  to  the 
commentator. on  i.  117,  7,  cured  her  of  the  leprosy  with  which  she  had 
been  afflicted.  , 

They  caused  the  cow  of  S'ayu,  which  had  left  off  bearing,  to  yield 
milk,  i.  116,  22;  i.  117,  20  (adhenum  dasrd  staryam  vishaktdm  apin- 
vatam  say  me  Asvmd  gam] ;  i.  118,  8  ;  i.  119,  6  ;  x.  S9,  13. 

They  gave  to  Pedu  a  strong,  swift,  white  horse,  animated  by  Indra, 
and  of  incomparable  Indra-like  prowess,  which  overcame  all  his 
enemies,  and  conquered  for  him  unbounded  Spoils,  i.  1J6,  6 ;  i.  117,  9 
(puru  varpdmsi  Asvind  dndhdnd  ni  Pedave  uhathur  dsum  asvam  \ 
sahasrasdm  vdjinam  apratltam  ahihanam  sravasyam  *tarutram) ;  i.  118, 

381  See  Professor  Roth's  explanation  of  the  words  riblsa  and  gharma,  s.vv.t  and 
his  illustrations  of  Nirukta,  vi.  36. 


248       CONNECTION  OP  THE  AS'VINS  WITH  OTHER  DEITIES. 

9  (yuvam  Svetam  Pedave  Indrajutam  ahihanam  A&vina  'dattam  a£vam) ; 
i.  119,  10  (Indram  iva  charshanuahani) ;  vii.  71,  5 ;  x.  39,  10. 

Finally,  to  say  nothing  of  the  succours  rendered  to  numerous  other 
persons  (i.  112,  116,  117,  118,  119,)  the  Asvins  did  not  confine  their 
benevolence  to  human  beings,  but  are  also  celebrated  as  having 
rescued  from  the  jaws  of  a  wolf  a  quail  by  which  they  were  invoked 
(i.  116,  14;  i.  117,  16;  i.  118,  8;  xi  39,  13  (vrikcsya  chid  vdrtikdm 
antar  dsydd  yuvam  sachibhir  grasitdm  amunckatam). 

The  deliverances  of  Rebha,  Vandana,  Paravrij,  Bhujyu,  Chyavana, 
and  others  are  explained  by  Professor  Benfey  (following  Dr.  Kuhn  and 
Professor  Miiller),  in  the  notes  to  his  translations  of  the  hymns  in 
which  they  are  mentioned,  as  referring  to  certain  physical  phenomena 
with  which  the  Asvins  are  supposed  by  these  scholars  to  be  connected. 
But  this  allegorical  method  of  interpretation  seems  unlikely  to  be 
correct,  as  it  is  difficult  to  suppose  that  the  phenomena  in  question 
should  have  been  alluded  to  under  such  a  variety  of  names  and  circum- 
stances. It  appears,  therefore,  to1  be  more  probable  that  the  rishis 
merely  refer  to  certain  legends  which  were  popularly  current  of  inter- 
ventions of  the  Asvins  in  behalf  of  the  persons  whose  names  are  men- 
tioned. The  word  Paravrij  (in  i.  112,  8),  which  is  taken  by  the 
commentator  for  a  proper  name,  and  is  explained  by  Professors 
Miiller382  and  Benfey  as  the  returning,  or  the  setting,  sun,  is  inter- 
preted by  Professor  Roth  in  hisr  Lexicon,  s.v.,  as  an  outcast. 


(3)  Connection  of  the  Asvins  with  other  deities. 

In  viii.  26,  8,  the  Asvins  are  invoked  along  with  Indra  (Indra- 
ndsatyd},  with  whom  they  are  also  connected  in  x.  73,  4,  and  on 
whose  car  they  are  in  one  place  said  to  ride,  while  at  other  times  they 
accompany  Yayu,  or  the  Adityas,  or  the  Ribhus,  or  participate  in  the 
stfides  of  Vishnu,  viii.  9,  12  (yad  Indrena  saratham  yatho  Asvind  yad 
vd  Vdyund  bhavathah  samokasd  \  yad  Adityebhir  Ri&ubhir  yad  vd 
Vishnor  vikramaneshu  tishthathah}.  In  i-  182,  2,  they  "are  said  to 
possess  strongly  the  qualities  of  Indra  (Indratamd')  and  of  the  Maruts 

382  Lectures  on  Language,  second  series,  p.  512. 


RELATIONS  OF  THE  ASTINS  TO  THEIR  WORSHIPPERS.     249 

(Ufaruttama).  In  x.  131,  4,  5,  they  are  described  as  assisting  India 
in  his  conflict  with  the  Asura  Namuchi  (see  above,  p.  93  f.,  note),  and 
as  vigorous  slayers  of  Vrittra,  or  of  enemies,  vritrahantamd  (viii.  8, 
22).  They  are  eagerly  longed  for  (?)  by  the  other  gods  when  they 
arrive,  x.  24,  5  (yisve  devdh  akripanta  samichyor  nishpatantyoK). 


(4)  Relations  of  the  Asvins  to  their  worshippers. 

The  Asvins  are  worshipped  with  uplifted  hands,  vi.  63,  3  (uttdna- 
Jiasto  yuvayur  vavanda},  and  supplicated  for  a  variety  of  blessings,  for 
long  life  and  deliverance  from  calamities,  i.  157,  4  (prdytis  tdrishtam 
nih  rapdmsi  mrikshatam)  ;  for  offspring,  wealth,  victory,  destruction  of 
enemies,  preservation  of  the  worshippers  themselves,  of  their  houses 
and  cattle,  vii.  67,  6;  viii.  8,  13,  15,  17;  viii.  9,  11,  13;  viii.  26,^; 
viii.  35,  10  ff.  They  are  exhorted  to  overwhelm  and  destroy  the 
niggard  who  offers  no  oblations,  and!  to  create  light  for  the  wise  man 
who  praises  them,  i.  182,  3  (kim  aira  dasrd  krinuthah  him  dsdthe  jano 
yah  kaschid  ahavir  mahlyate  \  ati  kramishtam  juratam  paner  asumjyotir 
viprdya  krinutam  vachasyave). 

No  calamity  or  alarm  from  any  quarter  can  touch  the  man  whose 
chariot  they  place  in  the  van,  x.  39,  1  1  383  (na  turn  rdjdndv  adite  kutai- 
chana  na  amho  asnoti  duritam  nakir  bhayqm  \  yam  asvind  suhavd  rudra- 
vartanl  puroratham  krinuthah  patnyd  saha}.  The  rishi  addresses  them 
as  a  son  his  parents,  vii.  67,  1  (sunur  na  pitard  vivakmi}.  In  x.  39,  6, 
a  female  suppliant,  who  represents  herself  as  friendless  and  destitute, 
calls  on  them  to  treat  her  as  parents  do  their  children,  and  rescue  her 
from  her  misfortunes  (iyam  vdm  ahve  srinutam  me  Asvind  putrdyeva 
pitard  mahyam  sikshatam  \  andpir  ajnd  asajdtyd  amatih  purd  tasydh 
abhisaster  ava  spritam).  In  another  place,  viii.  62,  11,  they  seem  to 
be  reproached  with  being  as  tardy  as  two  old  men  to  respond  to  the 
summons  of  their  worshipper  (kim  idam  vdm  purdnavaj  jarator  iva 
sasyate  \  "  Wh/ls  this  praise  addressed  to  you  as  if  you  were  old  men 
and  worn  out  ?  ").  In  vii.  72,  2,  the  rishi  represents  himself  as  having 


383  Compare  the  request  preferred  to  Indra  to  bring  forward  the  chariot  of  his 
worshipper  from  the  rear  to  the  front  (viii.  69,  4  f.). 


250       LEGEND  OF  CHYAVANA  AND  THE  AS'VINS, 

hereditary  claims  on  their  consideration,  and  a  common  bond  of  union384 
(yuvor  hi  nah  sakhyd  pitrydni  samdno  bandhur  uta  tasya  vittam}. 

The  Asvins  are  described  as  being,  like  the  other  gods,  fond  of  the 
soma-juice  (iii.  58,  7,  9 ;  iv.  45,  1,  3 ;  viii.  8,  5 ;  viii.  35,  7-9),  and 
are  invited  to  drink  it  with  TJshas  and  Surya,  viii.  35,  1  ff. 


(5)  Legend  of  Chyavana  and  the  Asvins,  according  to  the  S'atapatha 
JSrdhmana  and  the  Mahdlhdrata. 

The  following  version  of  the  legend  relating  to  the  cure  of  Chya- 
vana by  the  Asvins  (to  which  allusion  is  made  in  the  passage  of  the 
B..V.  quoted  above)  is  found  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  iv.  1,  5,  1  ff.  : 

1.  Yatra  vai  Bhrigavo  vd  Angiraso  va  svargam  lokam  samdsnuvata  tat 
Oftyavano  va  Bhargavas  Chyavano  vd  Angirasas  tad  evajlrnih  kritydrupo 
jahe  \  2.  S'arydto  ha  vai  idam  Mdnavo  grdmena  chachdra  \  sa  tad  eva 
prativeso  nivivise  \  tasya  kumdrdh  krldantah  imam  jlrnim  kritydru- 
pam  anarthyam  manyamdndh  loshtair  vipipishuh  \  3.  Sa  S'drydte- 
bhyas  chukrodha  \  tebhyo  'sanjndm  chakdra  pita  eva  putrena  yuyudhe 
bhrdtd  bhrdtrd  \  4.  S'arydto  ha  zkshdnchakre  yat  "kim  akaram  tasmdd 
idam  dpadi  "  iti  \  sa  gopdldms  cha  avipdldms  cha  samhvayitavai  uvdcha  \ 
5.  Sa  ha  uvdcha  "  ko  w  adya  iha  kinchid  adrdkshld"  iti  \  te  ha  uchuh 
fl  purushah  eva  ay  am  jlrnih  kfitydrupah  sete  \  tarn  anarthyam  manya- 
mdndh kumdrdh  loshtair  vyapikshann"  iti  \  sa  viddnchakdra  "  sa  vai 
Chyavanah"  iti  \  6.  Sa  ratham  yuktvd  Sukanydm  S'drydtlm  upddhdya 
prasishyanda  \  sa  djagdma  yatra  rishir  dsa  tat  \  7.  .Sa  ha  uvdcha 
li  rishe  namas  te  \  yan  rna  avedisham  tena  ahimsisham  \  iyam  Sukanyd  \ 
tayd  te  apahnuve  \  sanjdnitdm  me  grdmah"  iti  \  tasya  ha  tatah  eva 
grdmah  sanjajne  \  sa  ha  tatah  eva  S'arydto.Mdnavah  udyuyuje  "na  id 
aparam  hinasdni"  iti  \  8.  Asvinau  ha  vai  idam  bhishajyantau  cheratuh  \ 
tau  Sukanydm  upeyatuh  \  tasydm  mithunam  Ishdte  \  tan  na  jajnau  \  9. 
Tau  ha  uchatuh  "  Sukanye  kam  imam  jlrnim  krityarupam  upaseshe  \ 
dvdm  anuprehi"  iti  \  sa  ha  uvdcha  "  yasmai  mam  p%d  addd  na  tarn 


391  The  commentator  explains  this  of  a  common  ancestry  by  saying,  in  accordance 
with  later  tradition,  that  Vivasvat  and  Varuna  were  both  sons  of  Kas'yapa  and  Aditi, 
and  that  Vivasvat  was  the  father  of  the  As'vins,  while  Varuna  was  father  of  Vas- 
ishtha,  the  rishi  of  the  hymn.  See  the  1st  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  329  f.,  note  114. 


ACCORDING  TO  THE  S'ATAPATHA  BRAHMAN  A,  ETC.         251 

Jlvantam  hdsydmi"  iti  \  tad  ha  ayam  rishir  djajnau  \  10.  So,  ha  uvdcha 
"  Sukanye  kim  tvd  etad  avochatdm"  iti  I  tasmai  etad  vydchachakshe  \  sa 
ha  vydkhydtah  uvdcha  "  yadi  tvd  etat  punar  bruvatah  sd  tvam  brutdd 
1  na  vai  susarvdv  iva  stho  na  susamriddhdv  iva  atha  me  patim  mndathah ' 
iti  |  tau  yadi  tvd  bruvatah  /  kena  dvam  asarvau  svah  kena  asam- 
riddhdv1 iti  \  sd  tvam  brutut  'patim  nu  me  punar  yuvdnam  kurutam 
atha  vdm  vakshydrAi'  iti"  \  tdm  punar  upeyatus  tdm  ha  etad  eva 
uchatuh  |  11.  Sd  ha  uvdcha  "na  vai  susarvdv  iva  stho  na  susamnddhdv 
iva  atha  me  patim  nindathah"  iti  \  tau  ha  uchatuh  "kena  dvam  asarvau 
svah  kena  asamriddhdv "  iti  \  sd  ha  uvdcha  "patim  nu  me  punar 
yuvdnam  kurutam  atha  vdm  vakshydmi"  iti  \  12.  Tau  ha  uchatur  "etam 
hradam  abhyavahara  \  sa  yena  vayasd  kamishyate  tena  udaishyati"  iti  \ 
tarn  hradam  abhyavajahdra  \  sa  yena  vayasd  chakame  tena  udeydya  \  13. 
Tau  ha  uchatuh  "  Sukanye  kena  dvam  asarvau  svah  kena  asamriddhdv" 
iti  |  tau  ha  rishir  eva  pratyuvdcha  "  kurukshetre  ami  devdh  yajnam 
tanvate  \  te  vdm  yajndd  antaryanti  \  tena  asarvau  sthas  tena  asam- 
riddhdv "  iti  |  tau  ha  tatah  eva  Asvinau  preyatuh  \  tdv  ajagmatur 
devdn  yajnam  tanvdndn  stute  bahishpavamdne  \  14.  Tau  ha  uchatur 
"  upa  nau  hvayadhvam "  iti  \  te  ha  devdh  uchur  "  na  vdm  upahva- 
yishydmahe  \  bahu  manushyeshu  samsrishtam  achdrishtam  bhishajyantdv" 
iti  |  15.  Tau  ha  uchatur  vislrshnd  vai  yaj'nena  yajadhve"  iti  \  "  katham 
vislrshnd"  iti  \  "upa  nau  hvayadhvam  atha  vo  vakshydvah"  iti  \ 
"  tathd"  iti  \  td  updhvayanta  tdbhydm  efam  dsvinam  graham  aarihnams 
tdv  adhvaryu  yajnasya  abhavatdm  \  tdv  etad  yajnasya  sirah  pratya- 
dhattdm  \ 

"When  tha  Bhrigus.  or  the  Angirases  had  reached  Jhe  heavenly 
world,  Chyavana  of  the  race  of  Bhrigu,  or  Chyavana  of  the  race  of 
Angiras,  having  magically  assumed  a  shrivelled  form,  \vas  abandoned. 
S'aryata,  the  descendant  of  Manu,  wandered  over  this  [world]  with  his 
tribe.  He  settled  down  in  the  neighbourhood  [of  Chyavana].  His  youths, 
while  playing,  fancied  this  shrivelled  magical  body  to  be  worthless, 
and  pounded  it  with  clods.  Chyavana  was  incensed  at  the  sons  of 
S'aryata.  He  ci'eated  discord  among  them,  so* that  father  fought  with 
son,  and  brother  with  brothel.  S'aryata  bethought  him,  '  what  have  I 
done,  in  consequence  of  which  this  calamity  has  be*fallen  us  ? '  He 
ordered  the  cowherds  and  shepherds  to  be  called,  and  said,  '  "Which  of 
you  has  seen  anything  here  to-day  ? '  They  replied,  '  This  shrivelled 


252  LEGEND  OF  CHYAVANA  AND  THE  ASTINS, 

magical  body  which  lies  there  is  a  man.  Fancying  it  was  something 
worthless,  the  youths  pounded  it  with  clods.'  S'aryata  knew  then  that 
it  was  Chyavana.  He  yoked  his  chariot,  and  taking  his  daughter 
Sukanya,  drove  off,  and  arrived  at  the  place  where  the  rishi  was.  He 
said,  '  Reverence  to  thee,  rishi  ;  I  injured  thee  because  I  did  not  know. 
This  is  Sukanya,  with  her  I  appease  thee.  Let  my  tribe  be  reconciled.' 
His  tribe  was  in  consequence  reconciler1. ;  and  S'aryata  of  the  race  of  Manu 
departed  thence  "lest,"  said  he,  "I  might  do  him  some  other  injury." 
Now  the  Asvins  used  to  wander  over  this  world,  performing  cures.  They 
approached  Sukanya,  and  wished  to  seduce  her ;  but  she  would  not 
consent.  They  said  to  her,  '  Sukanya,  what  shrivelled  magical  body 
is  this  by  which  thou  liest  ?  follow  us.'  She  replied,  '  I  will  not 
abandon,  while  he  lives,  the  man  to  whom  my  father  gave  me.'  The 
rishi  became  aware  of  this.  He  said,  '  Sukanya,  what  was  this  that 
they  said  to  thee?'  She  told  it  to  him.  When  informed,  he  said, 
'  If  they  address  thee  thus  again,  say  to  them,  '  Ye  are  neither  com- 
plete nor  perfect,  and  yet  ye  speak  contemptuously  of  my  husband  ! ' 
and  if  they  ask,  '  In  what  respect  are  we  incomplete  and  imperfect  ? ' 
then  reply,  '  Make  my  husband  young  again,  and  I  will  tell  you.' 
Accordingly  they  came  again  to  her,  and  said  the  same  thing.  She 
answered,  "  Ye  are  neither  complete  nor  perfect,  and  yet  ye  talk 
contemptuously  of  my  husband  ! '  They  enquired,  '  In  what  respect 
are  we  incomplete  and  imperfect  ? '  She  rejoined,  '  Make  my  husband 
young  again,  and  I  will  tell  you.'  They  replied,  '  Take  him  to  this 
pond,  and  he  shall  come  forth  with  any  age  which  he  shall  desire.' 
She  took  him  to  the  pond,  and  he  came  forth  with  the  age  that  he 
desired.  Th'e  Asvins  then  asked,  '  Sukanya,  in  what  respect  are  we 
incomplete  and  imper/ect  ? '  To  this  the  rishi  replied,  '  The  other  gods 
celebrate  a  sacrifice  in  Kurukshetra,  and  exclude  you  two  from  it. 
That  is  the  respect  in  which  ye  are  incomplete  and  imperfect.'  The 
Asvins  then  departed  and  came  to  the  gods  who  were  celebrating  a 
sacrifice,  when  the  Bahishpavamana 385  text  had  been  recited.  They 
said,  'Invite  us  to  join  .you.'  The  gods  replied,  '  Yr^will  not  invite 
you,  for  ye  have  wandered  about  very  familiarly  amon£  men,386  per- 

• 

3«5  See  Hang's  Ait.  Br.  ii.  p.  120,  note  13/ 

386  In  the  Mahabharata,  S'antip.  v.  7589  f.  it  is  said  that  the  As'vins  are  the 
S'udras  of  the  gods,  the  Angirases  being  the  Brahmans,  the  Adityas  the  Kshatriyas, 


ACCORDING  TO  THE  S'ATAPATHA  BRAHMANA,  ETC.         253 

forming  cures.'  The  Asvins  rejoined,  "Ye  worship  with  a  headless 
sacrifice.'  They  asked,  '  How  [do  we  worship]  with  a  headless 
[sacrifice]  ? '  The  Asvins  answered,  '  Invite  us  to  join  you,  and  we 
will  tell  you.'  The  gods  consented,  and  invited  them.  They  received 
thi»  Asvina  draught  (graha)  for  the  Asvins,  who  became  the  two  adh- 
varyu  priests387  of  the  sacrifices,  and  restored  the  head  of  the  sacri- 
fice." As  regards  the  cutting  o$  of  the  head  of  the  sacrifice  see  the 
passages  quoted  in  the  4th  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  109  ff. 

The  Taittirlya  Sanhita  vi.  4,  9,  1,  gives  the  following  brief  notice 
of  the  story  of  the  Asvins  replacing  the  head  of  the  sacrifice,  with  an 
addition  not  found  in  the  S'atap.  Br. : 

Yajnasya  siro  'chhidyata  \  te  devdh  asvindv  dbruvan  "  Ihishajau  vai 
sthah  |  idam  yajnasya  sir  ah  pratidhattam"  iti  \  tdv  abrutdm  "varam 
vrindvahai  grahah  eva  ndv  atrdpi  grihyatdm "  iti  \  tdhhydm  etam 
asvinam  agrihnan  \  tato  vai  tau  yajnasya  sirah  pratyadhattdm  \  yaddsvino 
grihyate  yajnasya  nishlcrityai  tau  devah  abruvann  "  aputau  vai  imau 
manushyacharau  bhishajdv  "  iti  \  tasmdd  brdhmanena  bheshajam  na  kdr- 
yam  \  aputo  hy  esho  'medhyo  yo  bhishak  \  tau  bahi&hpavamanena  pava- 
yitvd  tabhydm  etam  asvinam  agrihnan  \ 

"  The  head  of  the  sacrifice  was  cut  off.  The  gods  said  to  the 
Asvins,  '  You  are  physicians  ;  replace  this  head  of  the  sacrifice.'  The 
Asvins  replied,  '  Let  us  ask  a  favour  :  allow  a  libation  for  us  also  to  be 
received  in  this  ceremony.'  They,  in  consequence,  received  for  them 
this  Asvina  oblation,  when  they  replaced  the  head  of  the  sacrifice. 
When  this  Asvina  libation  had  been  received  for  the  sake  of  rectifying 
the  sacrifice,  the  gods  said  of  the  Asvins,  '  These  two  are  unclean, 
going  among  men  as  they  do,  as  physicians.'  Hence,  to  Brahman 
must  act  as  a  physician,  since  a  person  so  acting  is  unclean  and  unfit  to 
sacrifice.  They  purified  the  Asvins  by  the  Bahishpavamana ;  and  then 
received  for  them  the  Asvina  libation."  Compare  the  Ait.  Br.  i.  18, 
pp.  41  ff.  of  Professor  Haug's  translation. 

A  story,  varying  in  some  particulars,  is  narrated  in  the  Mahabharata, 

,,  •  > 

and  the  MaruttJ  the  Vais'yas.  Wjth  the  objection  made  against  the  Asvins  of  too 
great  familiarity  with  mortals,  compare  the  numerous  instances  of  help  rendered  to 
their  worshippers,  which  have  been  quoted  above  from  the  R.  V.,  and  which  may  have 
given  rise  to  this  idea. 

3t(7  Compare  S.  P.  Br.  viii.  2,  1,  3. 


254       LEGEND  OF  CHYAVANA  AND  THE  ASTINS. 

Vanaparva,  10,316  ff.  The  original  text  is  too  lengthy  to  be  cited,  but  I 
shall  give  its  substance.  We  are  there  told  that  the  body  of  Chyavana, 
when  performing  austerity  in  a  certain  place,  became  encrusted  with 
an  ant-hill ;  that  king  S'aryati  came  then  to  the  spot  with  his  4000 
wives  and  his  single  daughter  Sukanya;  that  the  rishi,  seeing  her, 
became  enamoured  of  her  and  endeavoured  to  gain  her  affections,  but 
without  eliciting  from  her  any  reply.  Seeing,  however,  the  sage's 
eyes  gleaming  out  from  the  ant-hill,  and  not  knowing  what  they  were, 
the  princess  pierced  them  with  a  sharp  instrument,  whereupon  Chya- 
vana became  incensed,  and  afflicted  the  king's  army  with  a  stoppage  of 
urine  and  of  the  other  necessary  function.  When  the  king  found  out 
the  cause  of  the  infliction,  and  supplicated  the  rishi  for  its  removal, 
the  latter  insisted  on  receiving  the  king's  daughter  to  wife,  as  the  sole 
condition  of  his  forgiveness.  Sukanya  accordingly  lived  with  the  rishi 
as  his  spouse.  One  day,  however,  she  was  seen  by  the  Asvins,  who 
endeavoured,  but  without  effect,  to  persuade  her  to  desert  her  decrepit 
husband,  and  choose  one  of  them  in  his  place.  They  then  told  her 
they  were  the  physicians  of  the'  gods,  and  would  restore  her  husband 
to  youth  and  beauty,  when  she  could  make  her  choice  between  him 
'and  one  of  them.  Chyavana  and  his  wife  consented  to  this  proposal ; 
and,  at  the  suggestion  of  the  Asvins,  he  entered  with  them  into  a 
neighbouring  pond,  when  the  three  came  forth  of  like  celestial  beauty, 
and  each  asked  her  to  be  his  bride.  She,  however,  recognized  and 
chose  her  own  husband.  Chyavana,  in  gratitude  for  his  restoration  to 
youth,  then  offered  to  compel  Indra  to  admit  the  Asvins  to  a  partici- 
pation in  the  Soma  ceremonial,  and  fulfilled  his  promise  in  the  course 
of  a  sacrifice* which  he  performed  for  king  S'aryati.  On  that  occasion 
Indra  objected  to  such»an  honour  being  extended  to  the  Asvins,  on  the 
ground  that  they  wandered  about  among  men  as  physicians,  changing 
their  forms  at  will;  but  Chyavana  refused  to  listen  to  the  objection,* 
and  carried  out  his  intention,  staying  the  arm  of  Indra  when  he  was 
about  to  launch  a  thunderbolt,  and  creating  a  terrific  demon,  who  was 
on  the  point  of  devouring  the  king  of  the  gods,  and  was  only  pre- 

•  '-^» 

vented  by  the  timely  submission  of  the  latter.388  , 

f 

388  See  the  similar5  account  of  Chyavana's  power  in  the  passage  from  the  Anus'asana 
parra  quoted  in  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  seco*nd  edition,  p.  470  f. 


REMARKS  BY  PROFESSOR  GOLDSTUCKER.  255 

(6)  Remarks  on  the  Asvins  by  Professor  Goldstiicker. 

I  have  been  favoured  by  Professor  Goldstiicker  with,  the  following 
note  on  the  Asvins  : — 

The  myth  of  the  Asvins  is,  in  my  opinion,  one  of  that  class  of 
myths  in  which  two  distinct  elements,  the  cosmical  and  the  human  or 
historical,  have  gradually  become  Mended  into  one.  It  seems  necessary, 
therefore,  to  separate  these  two  elements  in  order  to  arrive  at  an 
understanding  of  the  myth.  The  historical  or  human  element  in  it,  I 
believe,  is  represented  by  those  legends  which  refer  to  the  wonderful 
cures  effected  by  the  Asvins,  and  to  their  performances  of  a  kindred 
sort ;  the  cosmical  element  is  that  relating  to  their  luminous  nature. 
The  link  which  connects  both  seems  to  be  the  mysteriousness  of  the 
nature  and  effects  of  the  phenomena  of  light,  and  of  the  healing  art  at 
a  remote  antiquity.  That  there  might  have  been  some  horsemen  or 
warriors  of  great  renown  who  inspired  their  contemporaries  with  awe 
by  their  wonderful  deeds,  and  more  -especially  by  their  medical  skill, 
appears  to  have  been  also  the  opinion  of  some  old  commentators  men- 
tioned by  Yaska,  for  some  "legendary  writers,"  he  says,  took  them  for 
"two  kings,  performers  of  holy  acts;"  and  this  view  seems  likewise 
borne  out  by  the  legend  in  which  it  is  narrated  that  the  gods  refused 
the  Asvins  admittance  to  a  sacrifice  on  the  ground  that  they  had  been 
on  too  familiar  terms  with  men.  It  would  appear  then  that  these 
Asvins,  like  the  Bibhus,  were  originally  renowned  mortals,  who,  in  the 
course  of  time,  were  translated  into  the  companionship  of  the  gods ; 
and  it  may  be  a  matter  of  importance  to  investigate  whether,  besides 
this  a  priori  view,  there  are  further  grounds  of  a  linguistic  or  gram- 
matical character  for  assuming  that  the  hymns  containing  the  legends 
relating  to  these  human  Asvins  are  posterior  or  otherwise  to  those 
descriptive  of  the  cosmical  gods  of  the  same  name. 

The  luminous  character  of  the  latter  can  scarcely  be  matter  of  doubt, 
for  the  view  of  some  commentators — recorded  by  Yaska, — according  to 
which  they  were-  identified  with  "heaven  anci  earth,"  appears  not  to 
be  countenanced  by  any  of  the  passages  known  to  us.  Their  very 
name,  it  would  seem,  settles  this  point,  since  asva,  the  >  horse,  literally, 
"the  pervader,"  is  always  the  symbol  of  the  luminous  deities,  espe- 
cially of  the  sun.  The  difficulty,  however,  is  to  determine  their  position 


256  REMARKS  ON  THE  ASTINS 

amongst  these  deities  and  to  harmonize  with  it  the  other  myths  con- 
nected with  them.  I  may  here,  however,  first  observe  that,  though 
Yaska  records  opinions  which  identify  the  As>ins  with  "day  and 
night,"  and  "  sun  and  moon,"  the  passage  relied  upon  by  Professor 
Eoth  to  prove  that  Yaska  himself  identified  them  with  Indra  and 
Aditya  (the  sun),  does  not  bear  out  any  such  conclusion.  For  the 
passage  in  question,  as  I  understand,  it,  means:  "their  time  is  after 
the  (latter)  half  of  the  night  when  the  (space's)  becoming  light  is 
resisted  (by  darkness) ;  for  the  middlemost  Asvin  (between  darkness 
and  light)  shares  in  darkness,  whilst  (the  other),  who  is  of  a  solar 
nature  (aditya),  shares  in  light."  There  is  this  verse  relating  to  them: 
"  In  nights,"  389  etc.  Nor  does  Durga,  the  commentator  on  Yaska, 
attribute  to  the  latter  the  view  which  Professor  Roth  ascribes  to  him. 
His  words,  as  I  interpret  them,  are  :  "  '  their  time  is  after  the  (latter) 
half  of  the  night  when  the  (space's)  becoming  light  is  resisted,' 
(means)  when,  after  the  (latter)  half  of  the  night,  darkness  intersected 
by  light  makes  an  effort  against  light,  that  is  the  time  of  the  Asvins. 
....  Then  the  nature  of  the  middlemost  (between  them)  is  a  share  in 
that  darknesss  which  penetrates  into  light ;  and  the  solar  one  (aditya) 
assumes  that  nature  which  is  a  share  in  the  light  penetrating  into 
darknesss.  These  two  are  the  middlemost  and  the  uppermost :  this  is 
the  teacher's  (i.e.  Yaska's)  own  opinion,  for,  in  order  to  substantiate 
it,  he  gives  as  an  instance  the  verse  '  Vasatishu  sma,'  "  39°  etc. 

389  Nir.  xii.  1,  tayoh  kalah  urdhvam  ardharatrat  prakas'lbhavasyanuvishtambham 
anu  (the  last  word  is  omitted  in  Durga  MS.  I.  0.  L.,  No.  206)  tamobhago  hi  madh- 
yamo  jyotirbhaga  adityah;  tayor  esha  bhavati  Vasatishu  sma,  etc. 

390  Durga  I/O.  L.,  No.  206 :  Tayoh  kala  urdhvam  ardharntrat  pi  akaslbhavasyanu 
vishlambham  \  jyotisha,  vyatibhidyamanam  urdhvam  ardharatrat  tamo  yada  jyotir 
anu  vishtabhnati    so  's'vinoh    kalah   \    \_tatah  prabhriti  sandhistntram  purodayad 
asvinam,  udite  sauryani]  \  tatra  yat  tamo  'nuvishtam  (the  MS.  of  Professor  Miiller, 
Lect.    2nd  series,   p.    490,   reads  '  nupravishtam)  jyotishi  tadblmgo  madhyamasya 
rupam    (the   MS.    of   Prof.    M.    ibid. :   tadbhago   madhyamah   \  tan  madhyamasya 
rupam) :  yaj  jyotis  tamasy  anuvishtam  (the  same,  ibid,  anupravishtam)  tadbhcigam 
fadriipam  ndityah  \   tav   etau  madhyamottamav   iti  svamatam  acharyasya  \  yatah 
samarthanayodaharati  tayor  esha  bhavati  Vasatishu  smeti.     Professor  Roth,  in  his 
illustrations  of  Nirukta,  xii.'  1,  very  correctly  observes  that"*^Je  verse  quoted  by 
Yaska  (vasatishu  sma,  etc.)  does  not  bear  out  thefview  that  the  As'vi'is  are  Indra  and 
Aditya ;  but  the  proper  inference  to  be  drawn  from  this  circumstance  would  seem  to 
be,  not  that  Yaska  quoted  a  verse  irrelevant  to  his  view,  but  that  Professor  Roth 
attributed  to  him  a  view  which  he  had  not  entertained,  and  that  it  may  be  preferable 
to  render  Aditya,  as  proposed  above,  "the  solar  (Asvin),"  or  the  As'vin  of  a  solar  nature. 


BY  PROFESSOR  GOLDSTUCKER.  257 

To  judge,  therefore,  from  these  words,  it  is  the  opinion  of  Yaska 
that  the  Asvins  represent  the  transition  from  darkness  to  light,  when 
the  intermingling  of  both  produces  that  inseparable  duality  expressed 
by  the  twin  nature  of  these  deities.  And  this  interpretation,  I  hold, 
is  the  best  that  can  be  given  of  the  character  of  the  cosmical  A  svins. 
It  agrees  with  the  epithets  by  which  they  are  invoked,  and  with  the 
relationship  in  which  they  are,  placed.  They  are  young,  yet  also 
ancient,  beautiful,  'bright,  swift,  etc  ;  and  their  negative  character — 
the  result  of  the  alliance  of  light  with  darkness — is,  I  believe,  ex- 
pressed by  dasra,  the  destroyer,  and  also  by  the  two  negatives  in  the 
compound  nasatya  (na  +  a-satya),  though  their  positive  character  is 
again  redeemed  by  the  ellipsis  of  "enemies,  or  diseases,"  to  dasra,  and 
by  the  sense  of  nusatya,  not  un-true,  i.e.  truthful.  They  are  the 
parents  of  Pushan,  the  sun  ;  for  they  precede  the  rise  of  the  sun ; 
they  are  the  sons  of  the  sky,  and  again  the  eons  of  Vivasvat  and 
Saranyu.  Yivasvat,  I  believe,  here  implies  the  firmament  "expand- 
ing "  to  the  sight  through  the  approaching  light;  and  though  Saranyu 
is  to  Professor  Miiller  one  of  the  deities  which  are  forced  by  him  to 
support  his  dawn-theory,  it  seems  to  me  that  the  etymology  of  the 
word,  and  the  character  of  the  myths  relating  to  it,  rather  point  to 
the  moving  air,  or  the  dark  and  cool  air,  heated,  and  therefore  set  in 
motion,  by  the  approach  of  the  rising  sun.  The  Asvins  are  also  the 
husbands  or  the  friends  of  Surya,  whom  I  take  for  the  representative 
of  the  weakest  manifestation  of  the  sun ;  and  I  believe  that  Sayana  is 
right  when,  by  the  sister  of  the  Asvins,  he  understands  TTshas,  the 
dawn.  The  mysterious  phenomenon  of  the  intermingling  ot  darkness 
— which  is  no 'longer  complete  night — and  of  light — which  is  not  yet 
dawn — seems  to  agree  with  all  these  conceptions,  and  with  the  further 
details  of  a  cosmical  nature,  which  are  so  fully  given  in  the  preceding 
paper. 


17 


258 


SECTION,  XYI. 

SOMA. 

Keference  has  been  already  made  to  the  important  share  which  the 
exhilarating  juice  of  the  soma-plant  assumes  in  bracing  Indra  for  his 
conflict  with  the  hostile  powers  in  the  atmosphere,  and  to  the  eagerness 
of  all  the  gods  to  partake  in  this  beverage. 

Soma  is  the  god  who  represents  and  animates  this  juice,  an  intoxi- 
cating draught  which  plays  a  conspicuous  part  in  the  sacrifices  of  the 
Vedic  age.  He  is,  or  rather  was  in  former  times,  the  Indian  Dionysus  or 
Bacchus.  Not  only  are  the  whole  cf  the  hymns  in  the  ninth  book  of  the 
Eig-veda,  one  hundred  and  fourteen  in  number,  besides  a  few  in  other 
places,  dedicated  to  his  honour,  but  constant  references  to  the  juice  of  the 
soma  occur  in  a  large  proportion  of  the  other  hymns.  It  is  clear  there- 
fore, as  remarked  by  Professor  "Whitney  (Journal  of  the  American  Oriental 
Society,  iii.  299),  that  his  worship  must  at  one  time  have  attained  a 
remarkable  popularity.  This  circumstance  is  thus  explained  by  the 
writer  to  whom  I  have  referred  :  "  The  simple-minded  Arian  people, 
whose  whole  religion  was  a  worship  of  the  wonderful  powers  and  phe- 
nomena of  nature,  had  no  sooner  perceived  that  this  liquid  had  power 
to  elevate  the  spirits,  and  produce  a  temporary  frenzy,  under  the  in- 
fluence of  which  the  individual  was  prompted  to,  and  capable  of,  deeds 
beyond  his  natural  powers,  than  they  found  in  it  something  divine : 
it  was  to  their  apprehension  a  god,  endowing  those  into  whom  it 
entered  with  godlike  powers ;  the  plant  which  afforded  it  became  to 
tnem  the  king  of  plants ;  the  process  of  preparing  it  was  a  holy  sacri- 
fice ;  the  instruments  used  therefor  were  sacred.  Tfe<  high  antiquity 
of  this  cultus  is  attested  by  the  references, to  it  found  occurring  in  the 
Persian  Avesta ; 3B1  it  seems,  however,  to  have  received  a  new  impulse 
on  Indian  territory." 

391  See  I)r.  "Windischmann's  Essay  on  the  Soma-worship  of  the  Arians,  or  the 


SOMA.  259 

(1)   Quotation  from  Euripides  relating  to  the  Greek  god  Dionysus. 

As  illustrating  the  sentiments  which  gave  rise  to  the  adoration  of 
Dionysus,  the  Grecian  Soma,  I  shall  introduce  here  some  verses  from 
the  Bacchae  of  Euripides,  272tff.,  in  which  the  philosophical  poet  puts 
into  the  mouth  of  the  prophet  Teiresias  a  vindication  of  the  worship 
of  the  new  god,  against  the  ridicule  which  had  been  thrown  upon 
him  by  Pentheus,  togethef  with  a  statement  of  the  reasons  which 
justified  his  deification,  and  a  rationalistic  explanation  of  a  current 
myth  regarding  him  : 

QVTOS  5'  6  Sat/jiuv  6  veos  t>v  ffv  8iayf\as 

OVK  &v  Svvalfj.rji'  jj-tyzOos  Qfiire'tv  offos 

KaO'  'EAAciS'  fffrai  •  5vo  yap,  &  veavia, 

TO.  Trpcar'  fv  avdpdnrottn,  Arj^Trip  6*a, 

FT)  8'  €ffriv  •  6vofj.a  8'  oirorepav  /3ou\fi  icd\ei  • 

at/Tij  fj.tv  tv  ^ripaiiffiv  turpetyei  fiporovs  • 

d  5'  -/i\9ev  eiri  TWTiira^ov,  6  SejiieXrjs  y6vos^ 

fidrpuos  vypbv  irw/x'  evpe,  KflffriveyKaro 

6v7]TO?s,  &  Travel  TOVS  Ta\anru>povs  Pporobs 

Aujnjy,  OTO.V  ir\T)crdcafni>  a/j.Trf\ov  porjs, 

VTTVOV    T6,    \4)0T]V    T&V    KO.6'   7]/J.fpO.l>    KO.K&V, 

SiScacru',  ovS'  ear*  &\\o  (pdpfiaKOV  irtivoiv. 
OVTOS  deoiffi  (TTreVSeraj  Ofbs  yty&s, 
&<rre  Sii  TOVTOV  rayd.6'  avOpdlnrovs  exetv- 
Kal  Karayf\as  viv,  &is  tveppatpt]  AiJ»s 
p-ilpip'  StSd^ca  a*  &s  Ka\cas  fXft  T^8e. 
eirfi  viv  ^ipTraff"  fK  irvpibs  Kfpdvviov 
Zeus,   (Is  S'"O\vfj.Trov  j3pe'(/)os  avfiyayfv  vebv, 
"Hpa  viv  tf6e\'  eK^a\dv  air'  ovpavov, 
Zei/y  8'  ai>rffjLTfixo-"ri(Tar',  oia.  S^j  6f6s. 
•  f5i7£ay  /.itpos  TI  TOV  x.66i>'  eyicvK\ov[H€vov  '* 

al9fpos  eOi]Ke  rovS'  o/jLypov  e/cSiSous       » 
Aiovvvov  "Upas  vetKecw  •  XP^V  ^6/  vtv 
ftporol  Tpcuprii'ai  (paviv 


"tipq  iroff  ufj.'fipevffe,  ffvvdfVTts  \oyov, 
fj.dvris  8'  6  Saificav  o'Se  •  rb  yap  ^aKXfvcrift.ov 
Kal  rb  juariaiSex  (JLO-VTIK^JV  iroXXty  %xfl  ' 
UTO.V  yap  6  6ebs  els  "rb  ffSifji    ekdri  iro\6s, 

\eyfiv  TO  /j.e\\ov  TOVS  /jiturivoTas  iroifi. 

I 

translated  extracts  from  it  in  the  ^nd  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  469  ff.  ;  and  the  extract 
there  given,  p.  474,  from  Plutarch  de  Isid.  et  Osir,  46,  in  which  the  soma,  or  as  it  is 
in  Zend,  haoma,  appears  to  be  referred  to  under  the  appellation  o/j.cafj.i.  See  also  on 
the  fact  of  the  soma  rite  of  the  Indians  being  originally  identical  with  the  haoma 
ceremony  of  the  Zoroastrians,  Haug's  Aitareya  Brahmana,  Introd.,  p.  62. 


260  QUOTATION    FROM    EURIPIDES. 


"Aped*  re  /j.oipav  /j.(ra\a^wv  €%«  TWO.. 
arpa.r'bv  yelp  Iv  oir\ois  ovra.  Kairl  rofeert 
<p6fios  SjeTTTOTjcre,  irplv  \6yxTlt  Oiyetv  • 
fiavla  Se  Kal  TOVT'  tffrl  Aiovvaov  irdpa,  K.T.A.. 

"  I  cannot  express  how  great  this  young  god,  whom  thou  ridiculest, 
is  destined  to  become  in  Greece.  For,  yoang  man,  there  are  two  things 
which  are  the  foremost  among  men,  the  goddess  Demeter,  who  is  the 
Earth;  —  call  her  by  whichever  name  thou  pleasest;  —  who  nourishes 
mortals  with  dry  food.  But  he,  the  son  of"  Semele,  took  the  contrary 
course.  He  discovered  and  introduced  among  men  the  liquid  draught 
of  the  grape,  which  puts  an  end  to  the  sorrows  of  wretched  mortals,  — 
when  they  are  filled  with  the  stream  from  the  vine,  —  and  induces 
sleep,  and  oblivion  of  the  evils  endured  by  day.  Nor  is  there  any  other 
remedy  for  our  distresses.  He,  "born  a  god,  is  poured  out  in  libations 
to  gods,  so  that  through  him  men  receive  good.  And  thou  ridiculest 
him  by  saying  that  he  was  sewn  up  in  the  thigh  (fj,rjpa>)  of  Zeus.  But 
I  shall  shew  thee  how  this  is  rendered  reasonable.  When  Zeus  rescued 
the  infant  from  the  lightning-flame,  and  brought  him  to  Olympus,  Hera 
wished  to  expel  him  from  heaven.  But  Zeus,  like  a  god,  counteracted 
this  design.  Detaching  a  portion  of  the  aether  which  encircles  the 
earth,  he  gave  this  as  a  hostage  (o^pov}  to  Hera,  so  delivering  Dio- 
nysus from  her  hostility  ;  and  in  course  of  time,  because  he  became  a 
hostage  to  Hera,  men  began  to  say,  —  changing  the  word,  and  inventing 
a  fable,  —  that  he  had  been  reared  in  the  thigh  of  Zeus.  And  this  god 
is  a  prophet.  For  Bacchic  excitement  and  raving  have  in  them  great 
prophetic  power.  "When  this  god  enters  in  force  into  the  body,  he 
causes  men  to  rave  and  foretell  the  future.  And  he  also  partakes  of 
the  character  of  Ares  (Mars).  For  panic  (sometimes)  terrifies  a  force 
of  armed  men  drawn  up  in  battle  array,  before  the  actual  clashing  of 
the  hosts.  This  madness  too  is  derived  from  Dionysus."  392 

393  In  an  earlier  part  of  the  same  play,  verses  200  ff.  the  following  protest  against 
free  enquiry  in  religious  matters  is  put  by  the  poet  into  the  mouth  of  Teiresias,  who 
says  to  Cadmus  :  ( 

ovSev  ffo<pi$fj.ecr6a  rdiffi  Sa'i/j.o(n. 

irarp'tovs  irapaSoxas,  ay  #'  6u.^)l-tKas  \p6vtf 

•".•fKT^juefl',  oiiSfly  avra  Ka.Ta^a\et  \6yos, 

oi>5'  fl  Si'  6.Kpa>v  rb 


"  In  things  that  touch  the  gods  it  is  not  good 
To  suffer  captious  reason  to  intrude. 


ANCIENT    SOMA-WORSHIP.  261 

(2)  Prevalence  and  enthusiastic  character  of  the  ancient  Soma-worship. 

Professor  Haug,  in  his  work  on  the  Aitareya  Brahmana  (Introd. 
p.  60),  thus  writes  of  the  soma  sacrifice  :  "  Being  thus,"  (i.e.  through 
the  oblation  of  an  animal)  "  received  among  the  gods,  the  sacrificer  is 
deemed  worthy  to  enjoy  the  divine  beverage,  the  soma,  and  participate 
in  the  heavenly  kjng,  who  is  S»ma.  The  drinking  of  the  soma-juice 
makes  him  a  new  man ;  though  a  new  celestial  body  had  been  prepared 
for  him  at  the  Pravargya  ceremony,  the  enjoyment  of  the  soma  beverage 
transforms  him  again ;  for  the  nectar  of  the  gods  flows  for  the  first 
time  in  his  veins,  purifying  and  sanctifying  him." 

"With  the  decline  of  the  Yedic  worship,  however,  and  the  intro- 
duction of  new  deities  and  new  ceremonies,  the  popularity  of  Soma 
gradually  decreased,  and  has  long  since  passed  away ;  and  his  name  is 
now  familiar  to  those  few  Brahmans  only  who  still  maintain  in  a  few 
places  the  early  Vedic  observances. 

The  hymns  addressed  to  Soma  were  intended  to  be  sung  while  the 
juice  of  the  plant,  said  to  be  produced  on  Mount  Mujavat,  B..V.  x.  34, 
1  (somasyeva  Maujavatasya  bhahhah},393  from  which  he  takes  his  name 
(the  asclepias  acida  or  sarcostemma  mminale]  was  being  pressed  out  and 
purified.391  They  describe  enthusiastically  the  flowing  forth  and  filtra- 
tion of  the  divine  juice,  and  the  effects  produced  on  the  worshippers, 
and  supposed  to  be  produced  on  the  gods,355  by  partaking  of  the  bever- 
age. Thus  the  first  verse  of  the  first  hymn  of  the  ninth  book  runs 

Traditions  handed  down  from  sire  to  son 
9       Since  time  itself  began  its  course  to  run 
By  reasonings  never  can  be  undermined, 
Though  forged  by  intellects  the  most  refined." 

To  this  the  advocates  of  a  critical  investigation  into  the  truth  of  ancient  beliefs  might 
reply  in  the  words  of  the  Messenger  in  the  Helena  of  the  same  poet,  verses  1617  f. 
(though  their  original  application  was  different)  : 

cri&typovos  8'  a.Triffrta.s 
OVK  fffriv  oiiSfv  xpijffifMaTfpov  Pporots.  * 

"Bought  can  to  men  more  useful  bg, 
%         Than  prudent  incredulity." 

393  MTtjavan parvatah,  "Mujavat  is  a  hill,"  Mr.  ix.  8      See  also  Vaj.  S.  iii.  61, 
and  commentary.  » 

394  See  the  process  as  described  by'Windischman,  after  Dr.  Stevenson,  in  the  2nd 
volume  of  this  work,  p.  470. 

395  See  Ait.  Br.  vi.  11,  quoted  above,  p.  88,  note  168. 


262     HOW  THE  SOMA-PLANT  WAS  BROUGHT  TO  THE  EARTH. 

thus  :  Svddishthayd  madishthayd  pavasva  Soma  dhdrayd  Indrdya  pdtave 
sutah  |  "0  Soma,  poured  out  for  ludra  to  drink,  flow  on  purely  in  a 
most  sweet' and  most  exhilarating  current."  In  vi.  47,  1,  2,  the  juice 
is  described  as  sweet,  honied,  pungent,  well-flavoured,  and  exhilarating. 
No  one  can  withstand  Indra  in  battle  when  he  has  drunk  it  (svddush 
kildyam  madhumdn  utdyam  tlvrah  kildt/am  rasavdn  utdyam  \  uto  nu 
asya  papivdmsam  Indram  na  kaschana  sphate  dhaveshu  \  ayam  svddur  iha 
madishthah  dsa).  When  quaffed,  it  stimulates  the  voice,  and  calls 
forth  ardent  conceptions  (ibid,  verse  3).  In  a  verse  (viii.  48,  3,) 
already  quoted  above  (p.  90,  note),  in  the  account  of  Indra,  the 
worshippers  exclaim:  "We  have  drunk  the  soma,  we  have  become 
immortal,  we  have  entered  into  light,  we  have  known  the  gods.  "What 
can  an  enemy  now  do  to  us,  or  what  can  the  malice  of  any  mortal 
effect,  o  thou  immortal  god  ? " 

(3)  How  the  soma-plant  was  brought  to  the  earth. 

The  plant  is  said  to  have  beea  brought  by  a  falcon,  i.  80,  2 
(somah  syendlhritah] ;  iii.  43,  7  (a  yam  te  \_Indraya~\  syenah  usate 
jabhdra)  ;  viii.  71,  9  ;  from  the  sky,  iv.  26,  6  (rijlpl  syeno  dada- 
mdno  amsum  pardvatah  saJcuno  mandram  madam  \  somam  bharad 
dddrihdno  devavdn  divo  amushndd  uttardd  dddya")  ;  viii.  84,  3 ;  by 
a  well-winged  bird,  or  Suparna,  to  Indra,  viii.  89,  8  (divam  suparno 
gatvdya  somam  vajrine  dlharat]  ;  or  from  a  mountain,  i.  93,  6  (ama- 
thndd  anyam  (somam)  pari  syeno  adreh),  where  it  had  been  placed  by 
Varuna,  v.  85,  2  (divi  suryam  adadhdt  somam  adrau'}.  In  iii.  48,  2  ; 
v.  43,  4;  ix.  18,  1;  ix.  62,  4;  ix.  85,  10  ;  ix.  98,  9,  it  is  called 
girishthd  (found  on  a  mountain).  In  another  place,  ix.  113,  3,  it  is 
declared  to  have  been  brought  by  the  daughter  of  the  sun  from  the 
place  where  it  had  been  nourished  by  Parjanya,  the  rain-god,  when 
the  Gandharvas  took  it,  and  infused  into  it  sap  (Parjanya-vriddham 
mahisham  tam  &uryasya  duhitd  'bharat  \  tarn  gandharvdh  praty  agri- 
bhhan  tarn  some  rasam  ddadhuK).  In  ix.  82,  3,  as  we  have  seen  above, 
p.  142,  Parjanya  is  said,  to  be  the  father  of  Som^f  and  in  A.V. 
xix.  6,  16,  the  god  is  said  to  have  sprujig  from  Puru^ha  (rdjnah 
Somasya  .  .  .  .  jdta^ya  Purushdd  adhi}. 

In  other  passages  a  Grandharva  is  connected  with  the  soma-plant,  the 
sphere  (pada}  of  which  he  is  said  to  protect,  and  all  the  forms  of  which 


HOW  THE  SOMA-PLANT  "WAS  BROUGHT  TO  THE  EARTH.     263 

he  is  said  to  manifest,  ix.  83,  4;  ix.  85,  12 396  (gandharvah  itthd 
padam  asya  rakshati  \  urdhvo  gandharvo  adhi  ndjce  asthdd  visvd  rupdni 
pratichakshdno  asya).  The  Aitareya  Brahmana  has  the  following  story 
regarding  the  mode  in  which  the  gods  obtained  soma  from  the  Gand- 
harvas, i.  27.  Somo  vai  raja  gand&arveshv  dslt  \  tarn  devds  cha  rishayas 
cha  alhyadhydyan  "  katham  ityam  asmdn  somo  raja  dgachhed"  iti  \  sd 
Vdg  alravlt  "  strlkdmdh  vai  gandharvah  \  may  a  eva  striyd  bhutayd 
panayadhvam"  iti  "Na"  iti  devdh  abruvan  "katham  vayam  tvad  rite 
sydma"  iti  \  sd  'bravzt  "krlmta  eva  \  yarhi  vdva  vo  may  a  artho  bhavitd 
tarhy  eva  vo  'ham  punar  dgantdsmi"  iti  \  "tathd"  iti  \  tayd  mahdna- 
gnyd  bhutayd  Somam  rdjdnam  akrlnan  |397  "King  Soma  was  among 
the  Gandharvas.  The  gods  and  rishis  desired  him,  and  said  ''How 
shall  we  get  him  to  come  to  us  ? '  Vach  said,  '  The  Gandharvas  are 
fond  of  females ;  huy  him  in  exchange  for  me  turned  into  a  female.' 
They  answered,  'No :  how  can  we  live  without  thee  ? '  She  rejoined, 
'  Buy  him,  and  whenever  you  have  occasion  for  me  I  shall  return  to 
you.'  They  agreed,  and  bought  king  Soma  with  Vach  turned  into  a 
female,  quite 'naked  [_i.e.  unchaste]."  See  Professor  Haug's  translation 
of  this  Brahmana,  p.  59,  and  compare  pp.  201  ff. ;  294 ;  and  400. 

In  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  iii.  2,  4,  1  ff.,  it  is  related  that  the 
soma  existed  formerly  in  the  sky,  whilst  the  gods  were  here  (on  earth). 
They  desired  to  ge't  it,  that  they  might  employ  it  in  sacrifice.  The 
Gayatri  flew  to  bring  it  for  them.  "While  she  was  carrying  it  off  the 
Gandharva  Yibhavasu  robbed  her  of  it.'  The  gods  became  aware  of 
this,  and  knowing  the  partiality  of  the  Gandharvas  for  females  (com- 
pare iii.  9,  3,  20,  and  A.V.  iv.  37,  11  f.),  they  sent  Vach,  the  goddess 
of  speech,  to  "get  it  from  them,  which  she  succeeded  in  d&ing  (Divi  vai 
somah  dslt  \  atha  iha  devdh  \  te  devdh  akdmayanla  "  d  nah  somo  gachhet 

396  See  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon  under  the  word  Gandharva. 

»"  The  Taitt.  Br.  n.  1,  6,  5  (pp.  90  ff.  of  Indian  Office  MS.),  tells  the  same  story, 
but  says  that  they  turned  Vach  into  a  woman  one  year  old ;  and  that  after  she  had 
gone  they  induced  her  to  come  back  by  singing  (the  Gandharvas,  whom  she  had  left, 
meanwhile  reciting  a  prayer,  or  incantation),  and  hence  women  love  a  man  who  siilgs 
(tarn  somam  ahriyaavanam  gandharvo  Visvavasuh  paryamushndt  \  .  .  te  devah 
abruvan  " strtkamah  vai  gandharvah  striya  nishkrlnama"  iti  \  te  Vacham 
striyam  ekahayariim  kritva  tayd,  nirakrlnan  \  sa  rohid-rupam  kritva  gandharve- 
bhyo  'pakramya  atishthat  \  tad  rohito  janma  \  te  devah  abryvan  "  apa  yushmad 
akramln  na  asnian  upavarttate  vihvayti"  iti  \  brahma  gandharvah  avadann  \  agayan 
devah  \  sa  devan  gayatah  upavarttata  \  tasmad  gayantam  striyah  kamayante  \ 
kamuka  enam  striyo  bhavanti  ya  evam  veda). 


264  .  SOMA'S  WIVES. 

tena  dgatena  yajemahi"  Hi  |  ....  2.  Telhyo  gdyatri  somam  achha 
apatat  \  tasyai  dharantyai  gandharvo  Visvdvasuh  paryamushndt  \  te 
devdh  aviduh  "  prachyuto  vai  parastdt  somah  \  atha  no  net  dgachhati  \ 
gandharvah  vai  paryamoshish^lr"  iti  \  te  ha  uchur  il  yoshit-lcdmdh  vai 
gandharvah  \  Vdcham  eva  elhyah  prahinavdma  \  sd  nah  saha  somena 
dgamishyati"  iti  \  telhyo  Vacham  prdhinvan  so,  endn  saha  somena 
dgachhat.  And  in  xi.  7,  2,  8,  it  is  fc'aid :  "The  spma  existed  in  the 
sky.  The  Gayatri  became  a  bird,  and  brought  it"  (divi  vai  Somah 
dslt  tarn  gdyatri  vayo  bhutvd  "harat}.  See  also  the  S'atapatha  Brah- 
mana,  iii.  4,  3,  13,  and  iii.  6,  2,  2-18,  towards  the  close  of  which 
passage,  as  well  as  in  iii.  9,  3,  18,  the  Gandharvas  are  spoken  of  as 
the  guardians  of  the  soma  (somarahhdh} ;  and  Taitt.  Sanh.  vi.  1,  6, 1,  5. 

(4)  Soma's  wives. 

The  Taitt.  Sanh.,  ii.  3,  5,  1,  relates  that  Prajapati  had  thirty-three 
daughters  whom  he  gave  to  king1-  Soma.  Soma,  however,  frequented 
the  society  of  Eohim  only.  This  aroused  the  jealousy  of  the  rest,  who 
returned  to  their  father.  Soma  followed,  and  asked  that  they  should 
go  back  to  him,  to  which,  however,  Prajapati  would  not  agree  till 
Soma  had  promised  to  associate  with  them  all  equally.  He  agreed ; 
but  again  behaved  as  before,  when  he  was  seized  with  consumption, 
etc.  (Prajdpates  trayastrimsad  duhitarah  dsan  \  tdh  Somdya  rdjne 
' daddt  \  tdsdm  Rohimm  upait  \  tdh  Irshyantlh  punar  agachhan  \  tdh 
anvait  \  tdh  punar  aydchata  \  tdh  asmai  na  punar  adaddt  \  so  'bravid 
"  ritam  amishva  yathd  samdvachhah  upaishydmi  atha  te  punar  ddsydmi^ 
iti  |  sa  ritam  dmlt  \  tdh  asmai  punar  adaddt  \  tdsdm  Rohimm  eva 
upait  |  yaJcshma  drchhat].  In  the  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  3,  10,  1  ff.,  another 
story  is  told  of  Soma.  Prajapati  created  him ;  and  after  him  the  three 
Vedas,  which  he  took  into  his  hand.  Now,  Sita  Savitri  loved  Soma, 
while  he  loved  S'raddha.  Sita  came  to  her  father  Prajapati,  and, 
saluting  him,  asked  to  be  allowed  to  approach  him  with  her  complaint. 
She  loved  Soma,  she  said,  while  he  loved  S'raddhaT*  Prajapati  made 
for  her  a  paste  formed  of  a  sweet  smelling  substance,  to  which  he 
imparted  potency  by  the  recitation  of  certain  formulas,  and  then 
painted  it  upon  her  forehead.  She  then  returned  to  Soma,  who  in- 
vited her  to  approach  him.  She  desired  him  to  promise  her  his 


PROPERTIES  ASCRIBED  TO  THE  SOMA-JTJICE,  ETC.         265 

society,  and  to  tell  her  what  he  had  in  his  hand ;  whereupon  he  gave 
her  the  three  Vedas ;  and  in  consequence  women  always  ask  for  some 
gift  as  a  price  for  their  embraces,  etc.  The  Brahmana  goes  on  to 
recommend  the  use  of  the  same  paste,  prepared  with  the  same  formulas, 
as  a  specific  for  producing  love  or  good  will  (Prajdpatih  Somam  rdjdnam 
asrijata  \  tarn  trayo  veddh  anv  asrijyanta  \  tan  haste  'kuruta  \  atha  ha. 
Sltd  Sdvitrl  Somali  rujdnam  chakame  \  S'raddhdm  u  sa  chakame  \  sd  ha 
pitaram  Prajdpatim  upasasdra  \  tarn  ha  uvdcha  "  namas  te  astu  bha- 
gavah  \  upa  tvd  aydni  (2)  pra  tvd  dpadye  \  Somam  vai  rdjdnam  Tcdmaye 
S'raddhdm  u  sa  kdmayate "  iti  \  tasyai  u  ha  sthdgaram  alankdram 
kalpayitvd  dasahotdram  purastdd  vydlchydya  chaturhotdram  dakshinatah 
panchahotdram  paschdt  shaddhotdram  uttaratah  saptahotdram  uparishtdt 
sambhdrais  patnilhii  cha  mukhe  alankritya  \  3.  Asya  arddham  vavrdja  \ 
turn  ha  udlJcshya  uvdcha  "  upa  md  varttasva  "  iti  \  tarn  ha  uvdcha  "  bho 
gantum  (the  commentator  explains  the  phrase  as  if  he  read  Ihogam  tu) 
me  dchakshva  \  etan  me  dchahshva  yat  te  pdndv  "  iti  \  tasyai  u  trln 
veddn  pradadau  \  tasmdd  u  ha  striyodhogam  eva  hdrayante). 

(5)  Properties  ascribed  to  the  soma-juice  or  its  presiding  deity. 

The  juice  of  this  plant  is  said  to  he  an  immortal 398  draught,  i.  84,  4 
(jyeshtham  amartyam  madam)  which  the  gods  love,  ix.  85,  2  (daksho 
devdndm  asi  hi  priyo  madah};  ix.  109,  15  (pilanti  asya  visve  devdso 
golhih  sritasya  nrilhih  sutasya)im  to  be  medicine  for  a  sick  man,  viii. 
61,  17  (tad  dturasya  bheshajani).  All  the  gods  drink  of  it,  ix.  109,  15 
(pilanti  asya  visve  devasah}.  The  god  who  is  its  personification  is  said 
to  clothe  whatever  is  naked,  and  to  heal  whatever  is  sick;  through 
him  the  blind  sees,  and  the  lame  walks  abroad,  viii.  68,  2  (alhy  urnoti 
yan  nagnam  Ihishalcti  visvatn  yat  turam  \  pra  Im  andhah  khyat  nih  srono 
bhut}-,  x.  25,  11.  He  is  the  guardian  of  men's  bodies,  and  occupies 
their  every  member,  viii.  48,  9  (tvam  hi  nas  tanvah  soma  gopdh  gdtre 
gdtre  nishasattha  nrichakshdJi).  • 

.-:"• 

398  This  mejins,  according  to  Sayana,  that  it  has  no  deadly  effects,  like  other  in- 
toxicating drinks  (somapanajanyo  yiado  madantara-vat  marako  na  bhavati  ity  art  hah). 

399  The  Taitt.  Br.  i.  3,  3,  2,  says  that  soma  is  the  hest  nouyshment  of  the  gods, 
and  wine  of  men,  and  ibid.  4,  that  soma  is  a  male  and  the  wine  a  female,  and  the  two 
make  a  pair  (etad  vai  devanam  paramam  annam  yat  somah  etad  manushyanam  yat 
sura  |  4.  Pitman  vai  somah  stri  sura  \  tan  mithtmam). 


266  DIVINE  POWERS  ATTRIBUTED  TO  SOMA. 

(6)  Divine  powers  attributed  to  Soma. 

A  great  variety  of  divine  attributes  and  operations  are  ascribed  to 
Soma.  As  Professor  Whitney  observes,  he  is  "addressed  as  a  god  in 
the  highest  strains  of  adulation  and  veneration;  all  powers  belong  to 
him;  all  blessings  are  besought  of  hirh,  as  his  to  bestow"  (Journ. 
Amer.  Or.  Soc.  iii.  299).  He  is  sai$  to  be  asura.  divine  (ix.  73,  1 ; 
ix.  74,  7),  and  the  soul  of  sacrifice,  dtmd  yajnasya  (ix.  2,  10;  ix.  6,  8). 
He  is  immortal,  amrita  (i.  43,  9),  and  confers  immortality  on  gods  and 
men,  i.  91,  1,  6,  18  ;  viii.  48,  3,  quoted  above,  p.  90,  note  ;  ix.  106, 
8  (tvdm  devdso  amritdya  kam  papuK] ;  ix.  108,  3  (tvam  hi  anga  daivyd 
pavamdna  janimdni  dyumattama  amritatvdya  ghoshaya h] ;  ix.  109,  3  (eva 
amritdya  make  kshaydya  sa  suJcro  arsha  divyah  plyushaK}.m  In  a  passage 
(ix.  113,  7  ff.)  where  the  joys  of  paradise  are  more  distinctly  antici- 
pated and  more  fervently  implored  than  in  most  other  parts  of  the  Kig- 
veda,  Soma  is  addressed  as  the  god  from  whom  the  gift  of  future  felicity 
is  expected.  Thus  it  is  there  said :  yatra  jyotir  ajasram  yasmin  loke 
svar  hitam  \  tasmin  mdm  dhehi  pavamdna  amrite  loke  akshite  \  yatra, 
raja  Vaivasvato  yatrdvarodhanaih  divah  \  yatrdmur  yahvatlr  dpas  tatra 
mdm  amritam  kridhi  \  7.  "Place  me,  o  purified  god,  in  that  everlasting 
and  imperishable  world  where  there  is  eternal  light  and  glory.  0  Indu 
(soma),  flow  for  Indra.  8.  Make  me  immortal  in  the  world  where 
king  Yaivasvata  (Yama,  the  son  of  Yivasvat,)  lives,  where  is  the 
innermost  sphere  of  the  sky, 'where  those  great  waters  flow."  The 
three  following  verses  may  be  reserved  for  the  section  on  Tama. 

Soma  exhilarates  Varuna,  Mitra,  Indra,  Vishnu,  the  Maruts,  the 
other  gods,  Yayu,  Heaven  and  Earth,  ix.  90,  5  (matsi  &oma  Varunam 
matsi  Mitram  matsi  indram  Indo  pavamdna  Vishnum  \  matsi  sardho 
mdrutam  matsi  devdn  matsi  mahdm  Indram  Indo  maddyd] ;  ix.  97,  42 
(matsi  Vdyum  ishtaye  rddhase  cha  matsi  Mitrd-varund  puyamdnah  \ 
matsi  sardho  mdrutam  matsi  devdn  matsi  Dydvd-prithivl  deva  Soma}, 
Both  gods  and  men  resort  to  him,  saying  that  his  juice  is  sweet,  viii. 
48,  1  (visve  yam  devdh  utfi  martydso  madhu  bruvant&vjbhi  sancharanti). 
By  him  (but  see  p.  270)  the  Adityas  are  strong,  and  the  tarth  vast,  x. 
85,  2  (somena  Adjfydh  lalinah  somena  prithivl  mahl}.  He  is  the  friend, 

400  In  regard  to  the  manner  in  which  the  gods  acquired  immortality,  see  the  S'atap 
Br.  ix.  5,  1,  1  ff.  quoted  above  p.  14,  note  21. 


DIVINE    POWERS    ATTRIBUTED    TO    SOMA.  267 

helper,  and  soul  of  Indra,  iv.  28,  1  (tvd  yujd  tava  tat  soma  sakhye 
Indro  apo  manave  sasrutas  leak  \  2.  TV  a  yuja  ni  khidat  Suryasya  Indras 
chakram  sahasd  sadyah  Indo} ;  ix.  85,  3  (dtmd  Indrasya  Ihavasi} ;  x. 
25,  9  (Indrasyendo  sivah  sakha),  whose  vigour  he  stimulates,  ix.  76,  2 
(Indrasya  sushmam  Irayan],  and  whom  he  succours  in  his  conflicts 
with  Vritra,  ix.  61,  22  (yah  Indram  dvitha  Vritrdya  hantave).  He 
rides  in  the  same  chariot  with  Indra,  Indrena  saratham  (ix.  87,  9 ; 
ix.  103,  5).  He  has,  however,  winged  mares  of  his  own,  and  a  team 
like  Vayu,  ix.  86,  37  (isdnah  imd  Ihuvandni  vlyase  yujdnah  Indo 
haritah  suparnyah) ;  ix.  88,  3  (vdyur  na  yo  niyutvdn  ishtaydmd}.  He 
ascends  his  filter  in  place  of  a  car,  and  is  armed  with  a  thousand- 
pointed  shaft,  ix.  83,  5  ;  ix.  86,  40  (pavitra-rathah  sahasrabh  rishtifi). 
His  weapons  which,  like  a  hero,  he  grasps  in  his  hand,  ix.  76,  2 
(suro  na  dhatte  dyudhd  gabhastyoh\  are  sharp  and  terrible,  ix.  61,  30 
(bhimdni  dyudhd  tigmdni],  and  his  bow  swift-darting,  ix.  90,  3  (tigmd- 
yudhah  kshipradhanvd}.  He  is  the  slayer  of  Yritra,  vritrahan,  or  vri- 
trahantama  (i.  95,  5  ;  ix.  24,  6  ;  ix.  25,  3 ;  ix.  28,  3  ;  x.  25,  9),  and, 
like  Indra,  the  destroyer  of  foes,  and  overthrower  of  cities,  ix.  61,  2 ; 
ix.  88,  4  (Indro  na  yo  mahd  karmdni  chakrir  hantd  vritrdndm  asi 
Soma  purlhit}.  In  ix.  5,  9,  he  appears  to  receive  the  epithet  of 
prajdpati,  lord  of  creatures.  He  is  the  creator  and  father  of  the  gods, 
ix.  42,  4  (krandan  devdn  ajyanaf) ;  ix.  86,  10  (pitd  devdndm  janitd 
vibhuvasuh}  ;  ix.  87,  2  (pitd  devdndm  janitd  sudakshah) ;  ix.  109,  4  ; 
the  generator  of  hymns,  of  Dyaus,  of  Prithivi,  of  Agni,  of  Surya,  of 
Indra,  and  of  Vishnu,  ix.  96,  5  (Somah  pavate  janitd  matlndm  janitd 
Divo  janitd  Prithivydh  \  janitd  Agner  janitd.  Suryasya  janitd  Indrasya 
janitota  Vishnoh).  He  dispels  the  darkness,  i.  91,  22  (tvain  jyotishd  vi 
tamo  vavartha) ;  ix.  66,  24  (sukram  jyotir  ajljanat  \  krishnd  tamdmsi 
janghanaf),  lights  up  the  gloomy  nights,  vi.  39,  3  (ayam  dyotayad 
adyuto  vi  aktun) ;  and  has  created  and  lighted  up  the  sun,  the  great 
luminary  common  to  all  mankind,  vi.  44,  23  (ayam  surye  adadhdj 
jyotir  antah] ;  ix.  61,  16  (pavamdno  ajljanad  divas  chitrarn  na  tanya3 
turn  |  jyotir  vaisva/taram  Irihat]  ;  ix.  97,  4i  (ajanayat  surye  jyotir 
Induh]  ;  ix.  i07,  7  (a  suryajh  rohayo  divi]  ;  ix.  110,  3  (ajljano  hi 
pavamdna  Suryam}.  He  stretched  out  the  atmosphere,,  i.  91,  22  (tvam 
d  tatantha  uru  antariksham]  ;  vi.  47,  3f.  ;  and  in  concert  with  the 
Fathers  (Pitris},  the  Sky  and  the  Earth,  viii.  48,  13  (tvam  Soma  pitri- 


268  DIVINE   POWERS   ATTRIBUTED    TO    SOMA. 

bhih  samviddno  anu  dydvdprithivl  a  tatantha].  He  is  the  upholder  of 
the  sky  and  the  sustainer  of  the  earth,  keeping  the  two  apart,  vi.  44, 
24  (ayam  dyavdprithivl  vi  sltalhdyat] ;  vi.  47,  5  (ayam  mahdn  mahatd 
skambhanena  ud  dydm  astabhndd  vrishabho  marutvdn) ;  ix.  87,  2  (vish- 
tambho  divo  dharunah  prithivydh}  ;  ix.  89,  6 ;  ix.  109,  6.  He  pro- 
duced in  the  sacrifices  the  two  divine  worlds,  which  are  kindly  disposed 
to  men,  ix.  98,  9  (sa  vdm  yajneshu  wdnavl  Indur  jianishta  rodasi  \  devo 
devl\  He  is  king  of  gods  and  men,  ix.  97,  24  (rdjd  devundm  uta 
martydndm),  elevated  over  all  worlds  [or  beings]  like  the  divine  sun, 
ix.  54,  3  (ayam  visvdni  tishthati  pundno  bhuvanopari  \  somo  devo  na 
suryah}.  All  creatures  are  in  his  hand/ix.  89,  6  (visvdh  uta  hhitayo 
haste  asya).m  His  laws  are  like  those  of  king  Varuna,  i.  91,  3 ;  ix. 
88,  8  (rdjno  nu  te  Varunasya  vratdni} ;  and  he  is  prayed  to  forgive 
their  violation,  and  to  be  gracious  as  a  father  to  a  son,  and  to  deliver 
from  death,  viii.  48,  9  (yat  te  vayam  pramindma  vratdni  sa  no  mrila 
sushalchd  deva  vasyah}  ;  x.  25,  3  (uta  vratdni  Soma  te  pro,  aham 
mindmi  pdlcyd  \  adha  piteva  sunave  vi  vo  made  mrila  no  abJii  chid 
vadhdd  vivalsshase).  He  is  thousand-eyed,  ix.  60,  1,  2  (sahasra- 
chakshas},  and  sees  and  knows  all  creatures,  and  hurls  the  irre- 
ligious into  the  abyss,  ix.  73,  8  (vidvdn  sa  vUvd  bhuvand  'bhi  pas- 
yati  ava  ajushtdn  vidhyati  karte  avratdri) ;  and  guards  the  lives  of  all 
moving  beings  as  a  cowherd  tends  his  cattle,  x.  25,  6  (pasurn  na  Soma 
rahshasi  purutrd  vishthitam  jagat  \  samdlcrinoshi  jlvase  vi  vo  made  vtivd 
sampasyan  bhuvand  vivahshase).  He  is  the  chief  and  most  fiery  of  the 
formidable,  the  most  heroic  of  heroes,  the  most  bountiful  of  the  benefi- 
cent, and  as  a  warrior  he  is  always  victorious,402  ix.  66,  16  (mahdn  asi 

401  Compare  some  additional  passages  quoted  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  98  f. 

403  In  ix.  96,  16,  19,  his  weapons  are  referred  to ;  in  vi.  44,  22,  he  is  said  to  have 
rohbed  his  malignant  father  of  his  weapons  and  his  magical  devices  (ayam  svasya 
pitur  ayudhani  Indur  amushnad  asivasya  mai/ah).  It  is  related  in  the  Ait.  Br. 
i.  14,  that  there  was  formerly  war  between  the  gods  and  the  Asuras.  They  fought 
together  in  the  east,  south,  west,  and  north,  and  in  all  these  quarters  the  Asuras 
were  victorious.  In  the  north-east,  however,  the  gods  were  not  overcome,  for  that  is 
"  the  unconquerable  region^"  The  gods  ascribed  their  fon**r  defeats  to  the  fact  of 
their  having  no  king,  and  agreed  to  make  Soma  their  monarch,  afte,1;  which  they  were 
victorious  on  all  the  points  of  the  compass  (Devas-.irah  vai  eshu  lokeshu  samayatanta  \ 
tatah  etasyam  prarhyam  dis'i  ayatanta  \  tains  tato  'surah  ajayan  \  ,  ,  .  .  te  udtchyam 
praehyam  disi  ayatanta  \  te  tato  na  parajuyanta  \  sa  esha  dig  aparajita  \  .  .  .  .  te 
devah  abruvann  "arajataya  vai  no  jayanti  \  rajanaih  karavamahai"  iti  \  "tatha" 
iti  |  te  somaih  rajanam  akurvan  \  te  somena  rajna  sarvah  diso  'jay an]. 


SOMA    ASSOCIATED    WITH    OTHER    GODS.  269 

soma  jyeshthah  ugrdnam  Indo  ojishthah  \  yudhvd  san  &a&vad  jigetha  \  17. 
Yah  ugrelhyas  chid  ojlydn  surelhyas  chit  suratarah  \  Ihuriddbhyas  chid 
mamhlydn).  He  conquers  for  his  worshippers  cows,  chariots,  horses, 
gold,  heaven,  water, — a  thousand  desirable  things,  ix.  78,  4  (gojin  nah 
somo  rathajid  hiranyajit  svarjid  abjit  pavate  sahasrajif),  and  every  thing, 
viii.  68,  1  (visvajit}.  He  is  a  wise  rishi,  viii.  68,  1  (rishir  viprah 
Jcdvyena] ;  strong,  skilful,  omniscient,  prolific,  glorious,  i.  91,  2  (tvam 
Soma  kratulhih  suJcratur  Ihus  tvam  dakshaih  sudaksho  visvaveddh  \  tvam 
vrishd  vrishatvelhir  mahitvd  dyumnelhir  dyumrii  alhavo  nrichakshdh). 
He  is  the  priest  of  the  gods,  the  leader  of  poets,  a  rishi  among  sages, 
a  bull  among  wild  animals,  a  falcon  among  kites,  an  axe  in  the 
woods,  ix.  96,  6  (Irahmd  devdndm  padamh  Icavlndm  rishir  viprdndm 
mahisho  mrigdndm  \  syeno  gridhrdndm  svadhitir  vananam}.  He  is 
an  unconquerable  protector  from  enemies;  i.  91,  21  (ashdlham  yutsu 
pritandsu  paprim]  ;  x.  25,  7  (tvam  nah  Soma  visvato  gopdh  addbhyo 
bhava  |  sedha  rdjann  apa  sridhah}.  If  he  desires  that  his  votaries 
shall  live,  they  do  not  die,  i.  91,  6  (tvam  cha  soma  no  vaso  jlodtum  na 
maramahe).  In  viii.  48,  7,  he  is  prayed  to  prolong  their  lives,  as  the 
sun  the  days  (Soma  rdjan  pra  nah  uyumshi  tdrlr  ahdriiva  suryo  vdsa- 
rdni].  In  x.  59,  4,  he  is  prayed  not  to  abandon  the  worshipper  to 
death  (mo  shu  nah  soma  mrityave  pard  ddh).  The  friend  of  a  god 
like  him  cannot  suffer,  i.  91,  8  (na  rishyet  tvdtavah  sakhd}.  The 
friendship  and  intimacy  of  such  a  god  is  eagerly  desired,  ix.  66,  18 
(yrinlmahe  salchydya  vrimmahe  yujydya).  In  x.  30,  5,  he  is  said  to 
rejoice  in  the  society  of  the  waters,  as  a  man  in  that  of  beautiful 
young  women  (ydlhih  somo  modate  harshate  cha  kalydmlhir  yuvatibhir 
na  wary  ah}. 

(7)  Soma  associated  with  other  gods. 

Soma  is  associated  with  Agni  as  an  object  of  adoration  in  i.  93,  1  ff. 
In  verse  5  of  that  hymn  those  two  gods  are  said  to  have  placed  the 
luminaries  in  th^sky  (yuvam  etdni  divi  rofhandni  Agnis  cha  Soma 
sukratu  adhdttam}.  In  the  same  way  Soma  and  Pushan  are  conjoined 
in  ii.  40,  1  ff.,  where  various  attributes  and  function^  of  a  magnificent 
character  are  ascribed  to  them.'  Thus,  in  verse  1,  they  are  said  to  be 
the  generators  of  wealth,  and  of  heaven  and  earth,  to  have  been  born 


270      SOMA  IN  THE  POST-VEDIC  AGE  A  NAME  OF  THE  MOON. 

the  guardians  of  the  whole  universe,  and  to  have  been  made  by  the 
gods  the  centre  of  immortality  (janand  raylndm  janand  divo  janand 
prithivydh  \  jdtau  visvasya  Ihuvanasya  gopau  devdh  akrinvann  amritasya 
ndbhim}.  The  one  has  made  his  abode  in  the  sky,  and  the  other  on 
the  earth,  and  in  the  atmosphere  (verse  4).  The  one  has  produced  all 
the  worlds,  and  the  other  moves  onward  beholding  all  things  (verse  5) 
(4.  Dim  anyah  sadanam  chakre  uchchfrprithivydm  ar?yo  adhi  antarikshe  \ 
5.  Visvdni  anyo  Ihuvand  jajdna  visvam  anyo  abhichakshdnah  %eti}.  In 
vi.  72,  and  vii.  104,  Soma  and  Indra  are  celebrated  in  company.  In 
the  first  of  these  hymns  they  are  said  to  dispel  darkness,  to  destroy 
re  viler  s,  to  bring  the  sun  and  the  light,  to  prop  up  the  sky  with  sup- 
ports, and  to  have  spread  out  mother  earth  (verse  1.  Yuvam  Suryam 
vividathur  yuvam  svar  visvd  tamdmsi  ahatam  nidas  cha  \  2.  Vdsayathah 
ushdsam  ut  suryam  nayatho  jyotishd  saha  \  upa  dydm  skamlhathuh  skam- 
bhanena  aprathatam  prithivlm  mataram  vi}.  In  vii.  104,  their  ven- 
geance is  invoked  against  Rakshases,  Tatudhanas,  and  other  enemies. 

Hymn  vi.  74,  is  dedicated  to  the  honour  of  Soma  and  Rudra  con- 
jointly. The  two  gods,  who  are  said  to  be  armed  with  sharp  weapons 
(tigmdyudhau  tigmdhetl}  are  there  supplicated  for  blessings  to  man 
and  beast,  for  healing  remedies,  and  for  deliverance  from  sin  (sain  no 
bhiitam  dvipade  sam  chatu&hpade  \  etdni  asme  visvd  tanushu  Iheshajdni 
dhattam  \  ava  syatam  munchatam  yan  no  asti  tanushu  baddham  kritam 
eno  asmat}. 

(8)  Soma  in  the  post-vedic  age  a  name  of  the  moon. 

In  the  post-vedic  age  the  name  Soma  came  to  be  commonly  applied 
to  the  moon  and  its  regent.  Even  in  the  Rig-veda,  some  traces  of  this 
application  seem  to  be  discoverable.  Thus  in  x.  85,  2  ff.  (which,  how- 
ever, Professor  Roth  regards  as  of  comparatively  modern  date :  111.  of 
Nir.  p.  147),  there  appears  to  be  an  allusion  to  the  double  sense  of  the 
wprd :  2.  Somendditydh  lalinah  Somena  prithivl  mahl  \  atho  nakshat- 
trdndm  eshdm  upasthe  Somak  dhitah  \  3.  Somam  many&te papivdn  yat  sam- 
pimshanti  oshadhim  \  Somam  yam  bralimdno  vidurnatasydsrtdtikaschana  \ 
4.  Achhadvidhdnair  gupito  bdrhataih  Soma  rakshitah  \  grdvndm  it  srin- 
van  tishthasi  na  te  asndti pdrthivah  \  g.  Tat  tvd  devdh  prapibanti  tatah 
dpydyase  punqh  \  Vdyuh  Somasya  rakshitd  samdndm  mdsah  dkritih  \ 


SOMA  IN  THE  POST-VEDIC  AGE  A  NAME  OF  THE  MOON.       271 

"  2.  By  Soma  the  Adityas  are  strong  ;  by  Soma  the  earth  is  great ;  and 
Soma  is  placed  in  the  centre  of  these  stars.  3.  When  they  crush  the 
plant,  he  who  drinks  regards  it  as  Soma.  Of  him  whom  the  priests 
regard  as  Soma  (the  moon)  no  one  drinks.  4.  Protected  by  those  who 
shelter  thee,  and  preserved  by  thy  guardians,403  thou,  Soma,  hearest 
the  sound  of  the  crushing- stones;  but  no  earthly  being  tastes  thee. 
5.  When  the  gods  drink  thee,  o  god,  thou  increasest  again.  Vayu  is  the 
guardian  of  Soma:  the  month  is  a  part  of  the  years."404  In  the 
Atharva-veda  the  following  half-verse  occurs,  xi,  6,  7  :  Somo  ma  devo 
munchatu  yam  dhus  chandramdh  iti  \  "  May  the  god  Soma  free  me,  he 
whom  they  call  the  moon."  And  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  i.  6,  4, 
5  ;  xi.  1,  3,  2 ;  xi.  1,  3,  4,  and  xi.  1,  4,  4,  we  have  the  words :  Esha 
vai  Somo  raja  devdndm  annam  yat  chandramdh  \  "This  king  Soma, 
who  is  the  moon,  is  the  food  of  the  gods."  Similarly  in  xi.  1,  3,  5  : 
chandramdh  vai  Somo  devdndm  annam  \  "  Soma  is  the  moon,  the  food 
of  the  gods."  See  also  i.  6,  3,  24 :  Suryah  eva  dgneyah  \  chandramdh 
saumyah  \  "  The  sun  has  the  nature  .of  Agni,  the  moon  of  Soma ;  "  and 
xii.  1,  1,  2  :  Somo  vai  chandramdh  \  "  Soma  is  the  moon."  In  v.  3,  3, 
12,  and  in  ix.  4,  3,  16,  Soma  is  said  to  be  the  king  of  the  Brahmans 
(Somo  'smdlcam  Irdhmandndm  raja}.  In  the  Yishnu  Purana  (book  i. 
chap.  22,  p.  85  of  Wilson's  translation,  vol.  2,  Dr.  Hall's  ed.)  the 
double  character  of  Soma  is  indicated  in  these  words :  "  Brahma  ap- 
pointed Soma  to  be  monarch  of  the  stars  and  planets,  of  Brahmans  and 
of  plants,  of  sacrifices  and  of  austere  devotions "  (nakshattra-graha- 
viprdndm  virudhdm  chdpy  aseshatah  \  Somam  rdjye  dadau  Brahma  yaj- 

ndnam  tapasdm  api}. 

^ 

> 

403  The  word  so  rendered  is  barhataih.     In  the  Lexicon  of  Bbhtlingk  and  Roth, 

s.v.,  its  sense  is  said  to  be  doubtful.  Professor  "Weber  (Ind.  St.  v.  178  ff.  where 
these  verses,  with  the  rest  of  the  hymn  in  which  they  occur,  is  translated  and  anno- 
tated) renders  it  "lofty  ones"  (Erhabene).  Langlois  makes  it  "overseers."  The 
moon  is  mentioned  again  in  verses  18  and  19.  In  E.V.  viii.  71,  8,  Soma  sparkling 
in  the  cups  is  compared  to  the  moon  shining  on  the  waters  (j/o  apsu  chandramah  ivp 
somas  chamushu  dadrisc  \  piba  id  asya  tvam  Isishe).  See  Professor  Benfey's  note  on 
R.V.  i.  84,  15,  in.  his  Orient  and  Occident,  ii.  246.  » 

404  "Weber  anJi  Langlois  take  masah  for  a  nominative.     Bb'htlingk  and  Roth  cite 
the  passage  under  mas,  thus  making  it  a  genitive. 


272 


SECTION-"  XVII.     , 

BRIHASPATI  AND  BEAHMANASPATI. 

I  will  commence  my  description  of  this  god  with  a  translation  of  the 
account  given  of  him  in  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon  :  "Brihaspati, 
alternating  with  Brahmanaspati,  is  the  name  of  a  deity  in  whom  the 
action  of  the  worshipper  upon  the  gods  is  personified.  He  is  the 
suppliant,  the  sacrificer,  the  priest,  who  intercedes  with  the  gods  on 
behalf  of  men,  and  protects  them  against  the  wicked.  Hence  he 
appears  as  the  prototype  of  the  priests,  and  the  priestly  order ;  and  is 
also  designated  as  the  purohita  of  the  divine  community."  The  ancient 
Indian  conception  of  this  deity  is  more  fully  explained  in  Professor 
Roth's  dissertation  on  "Brahma  and  the  Brahmans," 405  in  the  first 
volume  of  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  pp.  66  ff., 
where  the  author  well  points  out  the  essential  difference  between  the 
original  idea  represented  in  this  god  and  those  expressed  in  most  of  the 
other  and  older  divinities  of  the  Veda,  consisting  in  the  fact  that  the 
latter  are  personifications  of  various  departments  of  nature,  or  of 
physical  forces,  while  the  former  is  the  product  of  moral  ideas,  and 
an  impersonation  of  tthe  power  of  devotion.  From  this  paper  I  ex- 
tract the  following  remarks :  "  Brahma,  on  the  other  hand  [in  con- 
tradistinction to  deva],  has  an  entirely  different  point  of  departure, 
and  significance.  Its  original  sense,  as  easily  discovered  in  the  Vedic 
hymns,  is  that  of  prayer ;  not  praise  or  thanksgiving,  but  that  species 
oi'  invocation  which,  with  the  force  of  the  will  directed  to  the  god, 
desires  to  draw  him  to  tLe  worshipper,  and  to  obtain  satisfaction  from 
him.  It  denotes  the  impetuous  supplication  which  was  natural  to  that 
ancient  faith,  and  which  sought,  as  it  were,  to  wrest  from  the  god  the 

405  Portions  of  this  paper  were  long  ago  translated  by  me  in  the  Benares  Magazine. 


BRIHASPATI  AND   BRAHMAXASPATI.  273 

boon  which  it  demanded"  (p.  67).  "Immediately  derived  from  this 
neuter  noun  brahma  is  the  name  of  the  god  Brahmanaspati,  who  is,  in 
many  respects,  a  remarkable  deity.  His  entire  character  is  such  as 
does  not  belong  to  the  earliest  stage  of  the  Yedic  mythical  creations, 
but  points  to  a  second  shape  which  the  religious  consciousness  en- 
deavoured to  take,  without,  However,  being  able  actually  to  carry  it 
fully  into  effect.  The  entire  series  of  the  principal  divinities  of  the 
Veda  belongs  to  the  domain  of  natural  symbolism,  which  appears  here 
more  decided,  unmixed,  and  transparent  than  perhaps  among  any  other 
people  of  the  Tndo-germanic  race,  but  which,  on  this  account,  is^  also 
less  rich  in  references  to  other  departments  of  life,  and  has  not  been 
able  to  get  beyond  a  certain  uniformity.  But  Brahmanaspati  is  one  of 
the  divine  beings  who  do  not  stand  immediately  within  the  circle  of 
physical  life,  but  form  the  transition  from  it  to  the  moral  life  oS  the 
human  spirit.  In  him,  the  lord  or  protector  of  prayer,  is  seen  the 
power  and  dignity  of  devotion,  the  energetic  action  of  the  will  upon 
the  gods  who  are  the  personifications  of  natural  objects,  and  im- 
mediately upon  nature.  And  it  may  still  be  plainly  perceived  in 
what  manner  this  god,  as  a  new-comer,  was  introduced  into  the  circle 
of  mythological  beings  already  established,  and  could  only  find  a  place 
by  the  side  of  the  other  gods,  or  by  supplanting  them.404 

"  Indra  is  the  highest  god  of  the  Vedic  faith,  or,  at  least,  the  one 
whose  action  has  the  most  immediate  bearing  on  the  welfare  of  men. 
He  is  the  god  of  the  friendly  noon-day  firmament,  which,  after  all 
obscurations,  again  shines  anew,  on  which  the  fertility  of  the  earth 
and  the  trauquility  and  enjoyment  of  human  existence  depend.  And 
the  prayer  which  most  frequently  recurs  in  the  Veda,  ani  is  addressed 
to  Indra,  is  that  he  will  counteract  the  attempts  of  the  cloud-demon 
who  threatens  to  carry  away  the  fertilizing  waters  of  the  sky,  or  holds 
them  shut  up  in  the  caverns  of  the  mountains,  will  pour  forth  those 
waters,  fertilize  the  earth,  and  bestow  nourishment  on  men  and  cattle. 
Now,  if  the  essence  of  the  god  Brahmanaspati  really  expresses,  as  the 
name  imports,  the  Victorious  power  of  prayer,,  then  we  should  find  him 
in  this  circle'  of  myths,  more  than  in  any  other.  And  in  point  of  fact 

404  "All  the  gods  whose  names  are, compounded  with  pati  ('lord  of — )  must  be 
reckoned  among  the  more  recent,  e.g.  Vachaspati,  Vastoshpati,  Kshetrasya  pati.  They 
were  the  products  of  reflection. 

18 


274     TEXTS  RELATING  TO  BRIHASPATI  ASD  BRAHMANASPATI. 

he  does  appear  along  with  India  in  that  conflict  of  his  against  the 
fiend,  and  that  too  in  such  a  way  that  a  department  of  labour  is 
assigned  to  him,  which,  in  most  of  the  other  hymns,  is  appropriated 
exclusively  to  Indra.  And,  finally,  in  some  few  passages,  it  is  he 
who,  all  alone,  breaks  through  the  caverns  of  Bala,  in  order  to  bring 
to  light  the  concealed  treasures  of  the  fertilizing  water,  or,  according 
to  the  figurative  language  employed,  the  cows  with  abundant  milk  " 
(pp.  71  ff.). 

After  quoting  E.Y.  ii.  24,  3  f.  (which  will  be  cited  below)  Professor 
Both  proceeds:  "It  is  therefore  brahma,  prayer,  with  which  the  god 
breaks  open  the  hiding  place  of  the  enemy.  Prayer  pierces  through  to 
the  object  of  its  desire,  and  attains  it.  And  if  now  we  should  seek 
to  discover,  in  the  natural  phenomenon  to  which  reference  is  made, 
viz.?  in  the  storm,  that  force  which  so  mightily  breaks  through  the 
hostile  bulwarks,,  it  is  the  lightning  alone  which  can  be  the  outward 
symbol  of  the  victorious  god.  Brahmanaspati  is,  therefore,  called  the 
'  shining,'  the  '  gold-coloured '  (v.  .43,  12).  The  thunder  is  his  voice  " 
(p.  74).  Again  :  "  Brahmanaspati' s  domain  extends  still  further  ;  it 
reaches  as  far  as  the  efficacy  of  invocation.  He  succours  also  in 
battle  (R.V.  vi.  73,  2)"  (p.  74).  "And,  finally,  a  widely  extended 
creative  power  is  ascribed  to  him  in  the  remarkable  verses  of  a  hymn  of 
the  tenth  mandala  (68,  8  ff.)  attributed  to  Ayasya  of  the  race  of 
Angiras"  (p.  75). 


(1)  Passages  in  which  Brihaspati  and  Brahmanaspati  are  celebrated. 

I  subjoin  one  entire  hymn  and  portions  of  some  others,  which  will 
illustrate  the  characteristics  ascribed  to  Brahmanaspati  in  the  Rig- 
veda,  and  will  shew  how  that  name  alternates  with  Brihaspati  in 
different  verses  of  the  same  composition. 

'  E..Y.  ii.  23, 1.  Gandndm  tva  ganapatim  havdmahe  kavim  Icavlndm  upama- 
Sravastamam  \jyeshtharqfam  brahmandm  Brahmanafyzte  a  nah  srinvann 
utaye  slda  sadanam  \  2.  Devds  chit  te  asurya  prachetaso  Bri^aspate  yajni- 
yam  bhdgam  ana&uh  \  usrdh  iva  suryo  jyotishd  maho  visveshiim  ij  janitd 
brahmandm  asi  \  3.  Avibadhya  parirapas  tamdiiisi  cha  jyotishmantam  ra- 
tham  ritasya  tishthasi  \  Brihaspate  bhlmam  amitradamlhanam  rahhohanam 


TEXTS  RELATING  TO  BRIHASPATI  AND  BEAHMANASPATI.     275 

gotrabhidam  svarvidam  \  4.  Sumtibhir  nayasi  trdyase  janam  yas  tubh- 
yam  ddsdd  na  tarn  amho  asnavat  \  brahmadvishas  tapano  manyumlr  asi 
Brihaspate  mahi  tat  te  mahitvanam  \  5.  Na  tarn  amho  na  duritam 
kutaschana  ndrdtayas  titirur  na  dvaydvinah  \  visvdh  id  asmdd  dhvaraso 
vi  bddhase  yam  sugopdh  rakshasi  Brahmanaspate  \  6.  Tvam  no  gopuli 
pathikrid  vichakshanas  tava  vratdya  matibhir  jardmahe  \  Brihaspate  yo 
no  abhi  hvaro  dadht  srd  tarn  mar^nartu  duchhund  harasvatl  \  7.  Ufa  vd 
yo  no  marchaydd  andgaso  ardtlvd  martah  sdnuko  vrilcah  \  Brihaspate 
apa  tarn  vartaya  pathah  sue/am  no  asyai  devavltaye  Jcridhi  \  8.  Trdldram 
tvd  tanunaih  havtimahe  avaspartar  adhivaktdram  asmayum  \  Brihaspate 
devanido  ni  barhaya  ma  durevdh  uttaram  sumnam  un  nasan  \  9 
(  =  Nir.  iii.  11).  Tvayd  vayam  suvridhd  Brahmanaspate  spdrhd  vasii 
manushyu  d  dadlmahi  \  yah  no  dure  talito  yah  ardtayo  ablii  santi  jam- 
bhaya  tuh  anapnasah  \  10.  Tvayd  vayam  uttamam  dhlmahi  vayo  Brihas- 
pate paprinu  sasnind  yujti  \  md  no  dussamso  abhidipsur  isata  pra  susam- 
sdh  matibhis  tdrishlmahi  \  11.  Andnudo  vrishabho  jagmir  dhavam  nish- 
taptd  satrum  pritanusii  sdsahih  \  ttsi  satyah  rinaydh  Brahmanaspate 
ugrasya  chid  damitd  viluharshinah  \  12.  Adevena  manasd  yo  rishyanyati 
£asdm  ugro  manyamdno  jighdmsati  \  Brihaspate  md  pranalc  tasya  no 
vadho  ni  karma  manyum  durevasya  ^eardhatah  \  13.  Bhareshu  havyo 
namasopasadyo  gantd  vdjeshu  sanitd  dhanam  dhanam  \  visvdh  id  aryo 
abhidipsvo  mridho  Brihaspatir  vi  vavarha  rathdn  iva  \  14.  Tejishthaya 
tapani  rakshasas  tapa  ye  tvd  nide  dadhire  drishtaviryam  \  dvis  tat  Jcrishva 
yad  asat  te  ukthyam  Brihaspate  vi  parirapo  ardaya  \  15.  Brihaspate  ati 
yad  aryo  arhdd  dyumad  vibhdti  kratumaj  janeshu  \  yad  dldaynt  snvaxu 
ritaprajdta  tc(d  asmdsu  dravinam  dhehi  chit  ram  \  16.  Md  nah  stenebhyo 
ye  abhi  druhas  pade  nirdmino  ripavo  ' 'nneshu  jagridfiuh  \  d  devdndm  ohate 
vi  vrayo  hridi  Brihaspate  na  par  ah  sdmno  viduh  \  17.  Visvebhyo  hi  tvd 
bhuvanebhyas  pari  Tvashtd  ''janat  sdmnah  sdmnah  kavih  \  sa  rinachid 
rinaydh  Brahmanaspatir  druho  hantd  mahah  ritasya  dhartari  \  18. 
Tava  sriye  vi  ajihlta  parvato  gavdm  gotram  udasrijo  yad  Angirah  \ 
Indrena  yujd  tamasd  parivritam  Brihaspate  nir  apdm  aubjo  arnavam  \ 
19.  Brahmanaspate  tvam  asya  yantd  suktasya  bodhi  tanayam  cha  jinva  \ 
visvam  tad  bhadram  yad  avanti  devdh  brihad  vadema  vidathe  suvirdh  \ 

Although  the  translation  which  I  subjoin  is  very  "imperfect,  and  I 
am  uncertain  as  to  the  sense  of  many  words  and  phrases  occurring  in 
it,  the  general  sense  is  clear  and  undoubted  : 


276     TEXTS  RELATING  TO  BRIHASPATI  AND  BRAHMANASPATI. 

"  We  invoke  thee,  Brahmanaspati,  the  commander  of  hosts,405  the 
wise,  the  most  highly  renowned  of  sages,  the  monarch  of  prayers  ; 
do  thou  hear  us,  and  take  thy  place  on  our  hearth,  bringing  succour. 
2.  Even  the  gods  have,  o  divine  Brihaspati,  obtained  the  worshipful 
portion  of  thee,  who  art  wise :  as  the  gr^eat  sun  by  his  light  generates 
rays,  so  art  thou  the  generator  of  all  prayers.  3.  Overcoming  demons 
and  darkness,  thou  standest  upon  the  luminous,  awful,  foe-subduing, 
rakshas-slaying,  cow-pen-cleaving,  heaven-reaching,  chariot  of  the 
ceremonial.  4.  By  thy  wise  guidance  thou  leadest  and  preservest 
men ;  no  calamity  can  befal  him  who  offers  gifts  to  thee ;  thou  vexest, 
and  overcomest  the  wrath  of,  the  enemy  of  devotion ;  this,  o  Brihas- 
pati, constitutes  thy  greatness.  5.  No  calamity  or  misfortune  from 
any  quarter,  neither  foes  nor  deceivers,  can  overwhelm  the  man — 
(thou  repellest  from  him  all  evil  spirits) — whom  thou,  a  sure  protector, 
dost  guard,  o  Brahmanaspati.  6.  Thou  art  the  wise  guardian  who  opens 
for  us  a  way ;  with  hymns  we  pay  homage  to  thy  sovereign  power. 
Brihaspati,  may  his  own  hot  ill  luck  destroy  the  man  who  devises  evil 
against  us.  7.  Whatever  hostile  mortal,  powerful406  and  rapacious, 
assails  us  who  are  innocent,  do  thou,  Brihaspati,  turn  him  away  from 
our  path,  and  enable  us  easily  to*reach  the  feast  of  the  gods.  8.  We 
invoke  thee,  o  deliverer,  who  art  the  protector  of  our  bodies,  and  our 
partial  patron ;  destroy,  o  Brihaspali,  the  revilers  of  the  gods ;  let  not 
the  wicked  attain  high  prosperity.  9.  May  we  through  thee,  our 
prosperer,  o  Brahmanaspati,  acquire  enviable  riches  profitable  for  men. 
Crush  the  foes,  whether  far  or  near,  who  assail  us  [and  make  them] 
destitute.  10.  Through  thee,  o  Brihaspati,  a  liberal  ,and  generous 
friend,  may  we  obtain,  the  highest  vigour.  Let  not  our  malicious 
enemy  gain  the  mastery  over  us  ;  may  we  who  are  friendly  in  our 
intentions  overcome  them  by  our  hymns.  11.  Stubborn,  strong,  he 
enters  into  the  battle,  he  vexes  the  foe,  he  overpowers  him  in  conflict. 
Thou,  Brahmanaspati,  art  a  real  avenger  of  guilt,  a  subduer  even  of 
the  fierce  and  vehemently  passionate  man.  12.  Let  us  not  be  struck 
by  the  shaft  of  the  man  who,  with  ungodly  mind,  seeks^to  injure  us, 
who,  esteeming  himself  fierce,  seeks  to  shy  (any  of  thy)  worshippers  ; 

• 

405  Compare  the  epithet  sarvagana  in  v.  51,  12. 
106  Sanuka  =  samuchhrita,  accordiug  to  Sayana. 


TEXTS  RELATING  TO  BRIHASPATI  AND   BRAHMANASPATI.      277 

we  repel  the  rage  of  the  presumptuous  and  malicious  man.  13. 
Brihaspati,  who  is  to  be  invoked  in  battles,  to  be  worshipped  with 
reverence,  who  frequents  conflicts,  who  bestows  all  our  wealth,  has 
overturned  like  chariots  all  the  malicious  enemies  who  seek  to  wrong 
us.  14.  Consume  with  thy  sharpest  burning  bolt  the  rakshases  who  have 
mocked  at  thee,  whose  prowess  is  well  proved  ;  manifest  that  power  of 
thine  which  shall.be  deserving^of  praise;  destroy  the  demons.  15. 
Brihaspati,  whose  essence  is  sacred  truth,  bestow  upon  us  that  brilliant 
wealth  which  shall  excel  that  of  our  foe,  which  appears  brilliant,  and 
possesses  strength,  which  shines  with  power.  16.  Do  not  (abandon) 
us  to  the  robbers  who  hold  the  position  of  our  assailants,  persistent 
enemies,  who  greedily  desire  our  food ;  —  such  a  man  in  his  heart 
contemplates  the  abandonment  of  the  gods;  —  they  do  not,  o  Bri- 
haspati, know  the  excellence  of  the  saman.  17.  For  Tvashtri,  who 
knows  all  saman- verses,  has  generated  thee  to  be  above  all  beings. 
Brahmanaspati  is  the  avenger  and  punisher  of  guilt,  the  slayer  of  the 
injurious  man  in  the  interest  of  the*  upholder  of  the  great  ceremonial. 
18.  When  thou,  Angiras,  didst  open  up  the  cow-pen,  the  mountain 
yielded  to  thy  glory ;  with  Indra  as  thine  ally,  thou,  Brihaspati,  didst 
let  loose  the  stream  of  the  waters,  which  had  been  covered  with  dark- 
ness. 19.  Brahmanaspati,  thou  art  its  controller;  take  notice  of  our 
hymn  and  prosper  our  offspring ;  all  that  the  gods  protect  is  successful. 
May  we,  blest  with  strong  men,  speak  with  power  at  the  festival." 

R.V.  ii.  24,  1.  Semdm  aviddlii  prdbhritim  yah  isishe  ay  a  vidhema 
navayd  mahd  gird  \  yatJid  no  mldhvdn  stavate  sakhd  tava  BriJiaspate 
sishadhah  sola  no  matim  \  2.  Yo  nantudni  anamad  ni  ojasd  utddardar 
manyund  sambarani  vi  \  prdcJiydvayad  achyutd  Bjahmanaspatir  d  chd- 
visad  vasumantaiti  vi  parvatam  \  3.  Tad  devdndm  devatamdya  kartvam 
asrathran  drilhd  avradanta  vllitd  \  ud  gdh  djad  abhinad  brahmana  valam 
aguhat  tamo  vi  achalcshayat  svah  \  4  (=  Nir.  x.  13).  Asmdsyam  avatam 
Erahmanaspatir  madhudhdram  abld  yam  ojasd  'trinat  \  tarn  eva  visve 
papire  svardriso  bahu  sdkaiti  sisichur  utsam  udrinam  |  ....  8.  Ritajyena 
kshiprena  Brakmanaspatir  yalra  vashti  pra  tati  asnoti  dhanvand  \  tasya 
sddhvlr  ishavo  ydbhir  asyati  nficJiakshaso  drisaye  karnayonayah  \ 

1.  "  Do  thou  who  rulest  receive  this  our  offering  [9f  praise]  ;  let  us 
worship  thee  with  this  new  and  grand  song ;  as  thy  bountiful  friend 
among  iis  celebrates  thee,  do  thou  also,  Brihaspati,  fulfil  our  desire.  2. 


278     TEXTS  RELATING  TO  BRIHASPATI  AND  BRAHMANASPATI. 

Brahmanaspati,  who  by  his  power  brought  low  the  things  which  should 
be  overthrown,  and  by  his  wrath  split  open  the  clouds,  has  also  cast 
down  the  things  which  were  unshaken,  he  has  penetrated  the  mountain 
which  was  full  of  riches.  3.  This  was  an  exploit  fit  for  the  most 
godlike  of  the  gods  to  achieve ;  firm  things  were  loosened,  and  strong 
things  yielded  to  him  ;  he  drove  forth  the  cows,  by  prayer  he  split 
Vala,  he  chased  away  the  darkness,  and  revealed  rthe  sky.407  4.  All 
the  celestials  drank  of  the  stone- covered  fountain,  yielding  a  sweet 
stream,  which  Brahmanaspati  split  open ;  they  poured  out  together  an 

abundant  supply  of  water 8.  Wherever  Brahmanaspati  desires, 

thither  he  reaches  with  his  well-stringed,  swift-darting  bow.  Excel- 
lent are  his  arrows  wherewith  he  shoots ;  they  are  keen- eyed  to  behold 
men,  and  drawn  back  to  the  ear." 

iv.  50,  1.  Yas  tastamlha  sahasd  vi  jmo  antdn  Brihaspatis  trishadastho 
ravena  \  tarn  pratndsah  rishayo  dldhydndh  puro  viprdh  dadhire  mandra- 
jihvam  \  4.  Brihaspatih  prathamam  juyamdno  maho  jyotishah  parame 
vyoman  \  saptdsyas  tuvijdto  ravena  vi  saptarasmir  adhamat  tamdmsi  \ 
5.  Sa  sushtubhd  sa  rikvatd  gantna  Valam  ruroja  phaligam  ravena,  \  Bri- 
Jiaspatir  usriydh  havyatudah  kanikradad  vdcasatlr  uddjat  \  6.  Eva  pitre 
visvadevdya  vrishne  yajnair  vidhema  namasd  havirlhih  \  BriJiaspate  su- 
prajdh  viravanto  vayam  sydma  patayo  raylndm  \  7.  Sa  id  rdjd  pratijan- 
ydni  visvd  susJimena  tasthdv  ablii  viryena  \  Brihaspatim  yah  sulhritam 
libharti  valguyati  vandate  purvalhdjam  \ 

"1.  Contemplating  Brihaspati  with  the  pleasant  tongue,  who  occu- 
pies three  abodes,  and  by  his  power  and  his  voice  holds  apart  the  ends 

of  the  earth,  the  ancient  rishis  placed  him  in  their  front 4.408 

Brihaspati,  when  first  born  from  the  great  light  in  the  highest  heaven, 
seven-faced,  mighty  in  nature,  seven-rayed,  blew  asunder  the  darkness 
with  his  voice.  5.  With  the  lauding,  hymning  band  he  by  his  voice 
broke  through  Vala,  the  cloud.  Brihaspati,  shouting,  drove  forth  the 
butter-yielding,  loudly-lowing  cows.  6.  Thus  let  us  worship  the  vigorous 
father,  who  is  possessed  of  all  divine  attributes,  with  sacrifices,  and 
reverence,  and  oblations.  May  we,  Brihaspati/  have  abundant  off- 
spring, vigorous  sons,  and  be  lords  of  riches.  7.  That  king  who  rnain- 

407  This  and  the  following  verse  are  translated  in  p.  73  of  the  article  of  Professor 
Roth,  quoted  at  the  commencement  of  this  section. 

MS  Verses  4  ff.  are  translated  by  Professor  Roth  in  pp.  79  f.  of  the  article  quoted 
at  the  beginning  of  this  section. 


TEXTS  RELATING  TO  BRIHASPATI  AXD  BRAHMANASPATI.     279 

tains  Brihaspati  in  abundance,  who  praises  and  magnifies  him  as  (a 
deity)  entitled  to  the  first  distinction,  overcomes  all  hostile  powers  by 
his  force  and  valour." 

x.  68,  6.  Yadd  Valasya  plyato  jasum  bhed  Brihaspatir  agnitapolhir 
arkaih  \  dadbhir  na  jihvd  parivishtam  ddad  dvir  nidhln  akrinod  usri- 

ydndm  \  7 dndeva  bhitlvd  Sakunasya  garlham  ud  usriydh  parva- 

tasya  tmand  "jat  \  ,8  (=  Nir.  x.  *12).  Asndpinaddham  madhu  pary  apas- 
yad  matsyam  na  dine  udani  kshiyantam  \  nish  taj  jabhdra  chamasam  na 
vrikshdd  Brihaspatir  mravena  vikritya  \  9.  Soshdm  avindat  sah  svah  so 
Agniiii  so  arkena  vi  babddhe  tamdmsi  \  Brihaspatir  govapusho  Valasya 
nir  majjdnam  na  parvano  jabhdra  \ 

"When  Brihaspati  clove  with  fiery  gleams  the^  defences  of  the  ma- 
lignant Yala,  as  the  tongue  devours  that  which  has  been  enveloped  by 
the  teeth,  he  revealed  the  treasures  of  the  cows.  7.  ...  As  if  splitting 
open  eggs,  the  productions  of  a  bird,  he  by  hi§  own  power  drove  out 
the  cows  from  the  mountain.  8.  He  beheld  the  sweet  liquid  en- 
veloped by  rock,  like  a  fish  swimming  in  shallow  water ;  Brihaspati 
brought  it  out,  like  a  spoon  from  a  tree,  having  cloven  (Vala)  with  his 
shout.  9.  He  discovered  the  Dawn,  the  Sky,  Agni ;  with  his  gleam 
he  chased  away  the  darkness ;  Brihaspati  smote  forth,  as  it  were,  the 
marrow  from  the  joints  of  Vala,  who  had  assumed  the  form  of  a  bull." 

i.  40,  5.  Pra  nunam  Brahmanaspatir  mantram  vadati  ukthyam  \  yas- 
minn  Indro  Varuno  Mitro  Aryamd  devuh  okdmsi  chakrire  \  6.  Tarn  id 
vochema  vidatlieshu  sambhuvam  mantram  devah  anehasam  \  "  5.  Brah- 
manaspati  now  utters  a  laudatory  hymn,  in  which  Indra,  Varuna, 
Mitra,  the  gods,  have  taken  up  their  abode.  6.  This  spotless  hymn, 
bringing  good  fortune,  may  we,  o  gods,  utter  on  the  festivals."  409 

i.  190,  1.  Anarvdnam  vrishabham  mandrajihvam  Brihaspatim  vardhaya 
navyam  arltaih  \  gdthdnijah  surucho  yasya  devuh  dsrinvanti  navamdnasya 
martdh  \  2.  Tarn  ritmydh  upa  vdchah  sachante  sargo  yo  na  devayatdm 
asarji  \  "  1.  Magnify  Brihaspati,  the  irresistible,  the  vigorous,  the 
ploasant-tongued,  who  ought  to  be  praised  with  hymns,  a  shining 
leader  of  songs  to'^whom  both  gods  and  m»n  listen  when  he  utters 

409  In  the  dissertation  quoted*  above,  p.  74,  Professor  Roth  remarks  on  these 
verses  :  "  The  thunder  is  his  (Brahmanaspati's)  voice.  This  vowe  of  thunder,  again, 
as  the  voice  of  the  superintendent  of  frayer,  is  by  a  beautiful  transference  brought 
into  connection  with  the  prayer  which,  spoken  on  earth,  finds,  as  it  were,  its  echo 
in  the  heights  of  heaven." 


280       ATTRIBUTES  OF  BRIHASPATI  AND   BRAHMANASPATI. 

praise.  2.  To  him  proceed  well-ordered  words,  like  a  stream  of 
"devout  men  which  has  been  set  in  motion." 

v.  43,  12.  A  vedliasam  nilaprishtham  Irihantam  Brihaspatim  sadane 
sadayadhvam  \  sadadyonim  dame  a  dldivamsaih  Tiiranyavarnam  arusham 
sapema  \  "  Seat  on  the  sacrificial  ground  the  wise,  the  dark -backed, 
the  mighty  Brihaspati.  Let  us  reverence  the  golden-hued  ruddy  god 
who  sits  on  our  hearth,  who  shines  incbur  house."  , 

z.  98,  7.  Devasrutam  vrishtivanim  raruno  Brihaspatir  vucham  asmai 
ayachhat  \  "  Brihaspati,  fulfilling  (his  desire),  gave  him  (Devapi)  a 
hymn  seeking  for  rain,  which  the  gods  heard." 

(2)  'Parentage  and  attributes  of  the  god. 

Brahmanaspati,  or  Brihaspati,  appears  to  be  described  in  vii.  97,  8, 
as  the  offspring  of  the  two  Worlds,  who  magnified  him  by  their  power 
(devl  devasya  rodasl  janitrl  Brihaspatim  vavridhatur  mahitvu] ;  whilst 
in  ii.  23,  17,  he  is  said  to  have  been  generated  by  Tvashtri  (see  above). 
He  is  called  a  priest,  x.  141,  3  (brahmunam  cha  Brihaspatim] ;  is 
associated  with  the  Eikvans,  or  singers  (vii.  10,  4;  x.  14,  3  ;  compare 
x.  36,  5 ;  x.  64,  4)  ;  is  denominated  an  Angirasa  (iv.  40,  1 ;  vi.  73,  1 ; 
x.  47,  6) ;  is  the  generator,  the  utterer,  the  lord,  the  inspirer,  of  prayer 
(ii.  23,  1,2;  i.  40,  5  ;  x.  98,  7),  who  by  prayer  accomplishes  his  de- 
signs (ii.  24,  3);  and  mounting  the  shining  and  awful  chariot  of  the 
ceremonial,  proceeds  to  conquer  the  enemies  of  prayer  and  of  the  gods 
(ii.  23,  3f.,  8).  He  is  the  guide,  patron,  and  protector  of  the  pious, 
who  are  saved  by  him  from  all  dangers  and  calamities,  (ibid,  verses 
4  ff. ) ;  and  are  blessed,  by  him  with  wealth  and  prosperity  (ibid.  9  f.). 
He  is  styled  the  father  of  the  gods,  ii.  26,  3  (devunum  pitaram] ;  is 
said  to  have  blown  forth  the  births  of  the  gods  like  a  blacksmith  (see 
above,  p.  48) ;  to  be  possessed  of  all  divine  attributes,  visvadevya,  or 
visvadeva  (iii.  62,  4;  iv.  50,  6);  bright,  suchi  (iii.  62,  5;  vii.  97,  7); 
pure,  sundhyu  (vii.  97,  7) ;  omniform,  visvarupa  (iii.  62,  6)  ;  possessed 
of  all  desirable  things,  i'isvavura  (vii.  10,  4;  vii.  97,  4);  to  have  a 
hundred  wings,  satapatra  (vii.  97,  7) ;  to^  carry  a  golden  spear,  hiran- 
yavusi  (ibid. ;  cofiapare  ii.  24,  8,  where  a  bow  and  arrows  are  assigned 
to  him);  to  be  a  devourer  of  enemies,  vritrakhada  (x.  65,  10;  comp. 
ri.  73,  3)  ;  a  leader  of  armies  along  with  Indra,  etc.,  Indrah  asam 


ARE  BRIHASPATI  AND  BRAHMANASPATI  NAMES  OF  AGNI  ?     281 

netd  Brihaspatir  Dalcsliinu  (x.  103,  8),  and  armed  with  an  iron  axe, 
which  Tvashtri  sharpens,  sisite  nunam  parasum  svdyasam  yena  vrischdd 
etaso  Brahmanaspatih  (x.  53,  9) ;  clear-voiced,  suchikranda  (vii.  97,  5) » 
a  prolonger  of  life,  pratarltd  'si  ayushah  (x.  100,  5);  a  remover  of 
disease,  amlvahd  (i.  18,  2)  ;  opulent,  revat,  vasuvit ;  an  increaser  of 
the  means  of  subsistence,  pushtivardhana  (i.  18,  2).  Plants  are  said 
to  spring  from  him,  yah  oshadhlh  ....  Brihaspatiprasutdh  (x.  97,  15, 
19).  He  is  said  in  one  place  to  be  conveyed  by  easy-going  ruddy  horses, 
tarn  sagmdso  arushdso  asvdh  Brihaspatim  sahavdho  vahanti  (vii.  97,  6). 

In  one  place  he  is  said  to  have  heard  the  cries  of  Trita,  who  had 
been  thrown  into  a  well  and  was  calling  on  the  gods,  and  to  have 
rescued  him  from  his  perilous  position,  i.  105,  17  (Tritah  kupe  avahito 
devdn  havate  utaye  \  tat  susrdva  Brihaspatih  krinvann  amhurandd  uru). 

His  exploits  in  the  way  of  destroying  Yala,  and  carrying  off  the 
heavenly  kine,  or  releasing  the  imprisoned  waters  of  the  sky,  have 
been  sufficiently  explained,  in.  the  quotation  I  have  made  above  from 
Professor  Eoth's  Essay,  as  well  as  .in  the  texts  which  have  been  trans- 
lated. He  is  further,  as  we  have  seen,  described  as  holding  asunder 
the  ends  of  the  earth  (iv.  50,  1). 

(3)  Whether  Brihaspati  and  Brahmanaspati  are  identifiable  with  Agni. 

Brnhmanaspati  and  Brihaspati  are  regarded  as  names  of  Agni  by 
M.  Langlois,  in  his  translation  of  the  Rig-veda,  vol.  i.  p.  249  (note  36), 
p.  254  (note  83),  p.  578  (note  1),  and  index,  vol.  iv.,  under  the 
words.410  Professor  Wilson  also,  in  the  introduction  to  the  1st  vol. 
of  his  translation,  p.  xxxvii.,  writes  as  follows:  " Rrahmanaspati, 
also,  as  far  as  we  can  make  out  his  character  from  the  occasional 
stanzas  addressed  to  him,  seems  to  be  identifiable  with  Agni,  with  the 
additional  attribute  of  presiding  over  prayer.  The  characteristic  pro- 
perties of  this  divinity,  however,  are  not  very  distinctly  developed  in 
this  portion  of  the  Veda"  (see  also  the  notes  in  pp.  41,  111,  112). 
In  the  introduction  to  his  second  volume,  j).  ix.  however,  Professor 
"Wilson  say  1  that,  as  described  in  the  2nd  ashtaka  of  the  R.V.,  Brihas- 
pati, "  when  treated  of  separately,  is  identical  with  Indra,  by  his 
attributes  of  sending  rain  (p.  »199)  and  wielding  the  thunderbolt  (p. 

110  M.  Langlois  spells  Brihaspati,  Vrihaspati. 


282     AR"E  BRIHASPATI  AND  BRAHMAXASPATI  NAMES  OF  AGNI  ? 

284) ;  but  he  is  hymned  indiscriminately  with  Brahmanaspati,  who  is 
styled  the  lord  of  the  Ganas,  or  companies  of  divinities,  and  also,  which 
is  in  harmony  with  his  former  character,  chief  or  most  excellent  lord 
of  mantras  or  prayers  of  the  Vedas  (p.  262) ;  he  also,  in  some  of  his 
attributes,  as  those  of  dividing  the  clouds,  and  sending  rain,  and  re- 
covering the  stolen  kine  (p.  268)  is  identical  with  Indra,  although  with 
some  inconsistency  he  is  spoken  of  as  distinct  from,  although  associated 
with,  him  (p.  270)  ;  but  this  may  be  a  misconception  of  the  scholiast, 
etc."  Finally,  Professor  Mu'ller  (Transl.  of  R.  V.  i.  77)  states  his  opinion 
that  "Brahmanaspati  and  Brihaspati  are  both  varieties  of  Agni,  the 
priest  and  purohita  of  gods  and  men,  and  as  such  he  is  invoked 
together  with  the  Maruts,  etc.,"  as  he  had  previously  remarked  that 
Agni  also  is.  The  verse  to  which  this  note  refers,  R.V.  i.  38,  13,  is 
as  follows :  achha  vada  tana  gira  jarayai  brahmanaspatim  agnim  mitraih 
na  darsatam,  which  Professor  Miiller  renders  thus:  "Speak  out  for 
ever  with  thy  voice  to  praise  the  lord  of  prayer,  Agni,  who  is  like  a 
friend,  the  bright  one."  < 

This  identification,  in  the  strict  sense,  of  Brahmanaspati  with  Agni 
is  supported  by  some  texts,  but  opposed  to  others.  Of  the  former 
class  are  the  following : 

ii.  1,  3.  TV  am  Agne  Indro  vrishabhah  satdm  asi  tvam  Vishnwr  urugayo 
namasyah  \  tvam  brahmd  rayivid  Irahmanaspate  \  "Thou,  Agni,  art 
Indra,  the  most  vigorous  of  the  good ;  thou  art  the  wide-striding  and 
adorable  Vishnu  ;  thou,  o  Brahmanaspati  (or  lord  of  prayer),  art  a 
priest  (brahmu},  the  possessor  of  wealth,  etc."  Here,  although  Agni  is 
also  identified  with  Indra  and  Vishnu,  as  he  is  with  other  deities  in 
the  folio  wing' verses,  the  connection  between  him  and  Brahmanaspati 
is  shown  to  be  more  intimate  and  real  by  the  fact  that  both  the  latter 
word  and  Agni  are  in  the  vocative.  In  the  next  passage  also  Brihas- 
pati, as  well  as  Matarisvan  may  be  regarded  as  an  epithet  of  Agni, 
iii.  26,  2.  Tarn  siibhram  Agnim  avase  havumahe  vaisvunaram  mdtaris- 
vdham  uktliyam  \  Brihaspatim  manusho  devatutaye  vipram  Jiotdram 
atithiiiif  rayhushyadam  \  "<5Ve  call  to  our  succour  th*e  bright  Agni,  the 
friend  of  all  mankind  ;  Matarisvan,  who  is  worthy  to  be  hymned ; 
Brihaspati,  the  wse  invoker,  the  guest,  swiftly-moving,  that  he  may 
come  to  a  man's  worship  of  the  gods." 

The  verse  above  quoted,  v.  43,  12,  is  also  alternatively  explained  of 


ARE  BRIHASPATI  AND  BRAHMANASPATI  NAMES  OF  AGNI  ?     283 

Agni  by  Sayana  in  his  remarks :  athava  iyam  Agneyi  \  brihatah  pari- 
vridhasya  karmanah  svtiml  iti  Brihaspatir  Agnir  ucliyate  \  tathd  nlla- 
varna-dhuma  -prishthatva  -  sadana-sudana^  hiranyavarnatvddi-  lingair  apy 
Agnir  eva  Brihaspatih  \  "  Or,  Agni  is  the  subject  of  the  verse.  By 
Brihaspati,  the  lord  of  the  grand  ceremonial,  Agni  is  denoted.  And, 
further,  it  is  also  shown  by  the  marks  of  having  a  back  of  dark- 
coloured  smoke,  of  being  placed  on  the  sacrificial  ground,  of  having  a 
golden  hue,  etc.,  that  Brihaspati  is  Agni."  And  in  ii.  2,  7,  Agni  is 
besought  to  make  Heaven  and  Earth  favourable  to  the  worshipper  by 
prayer,  brahmand  (prachl  dyavaprithivl  brahmand  kridhi}.  Further, 
Agni  (see  above  pp.  199  f.),  as  well  as  Brahmanaspati  and  Brihaspati, 
is  called  a  priest,  and  both  are  designated  as  Angiras,  or  Angirasa. 

On  the  other  hand,  however,  Brahmanaspati  or  Brihaspati  is  else- 
where distinguished  from  Agni.  Thus  in  x.  68,  9,  Brihaspati  is  said 
to  have  found  out  Ushas,  the  heaven,  and  Agni,  and  by  a  hymn  to 
have  chased  away  the  darkness  (sah  ushtim  avindat  sah  svah  so  agnim 
so  arkena  vi  babadhe  tamumsi}.  In  vii.  10,  4,  Agni  is  asked  to  bring 
Brihaspati  along  with  Indra,  lludra,  Aditi,  etc.  In  the  following 
texts,  where  a  number  of  different  gods  are  invoked  or  named  together, 
Agni  is  mentioned  separately  from  Brahmanaspati  or  Brihaspati,  iii. 
20,  5  ;  iv.  40,  1  ;  v.  51,  12  f.  ;  vii.  41,  1  ;  vii.  44,  1  ;  ix.  5,  11  ; 
x.  35,  11  ;  x.  65,  1  ;  x.  130,  4;  x.  141,  3. 


284 


SECTION  XYIII. 

YAMA    AND   THE  DOCTRINE"  OP  A  FUTTJRE  LIFE. 
(1)  References  to  immortality  in  the  earlier  looks  of  the  Rig-veda. 

It  is  in  the  ninth  and  tenth  books  of  the  Rig-veda  that  we  find 
the  most  distinct  and  prominent  references  to  a  future  life.  It  is 
true  that  the  Ribhus,  on  account  of  their  artistic  skill,  are  said,  in 
some  texts  in  the  earlier  books,  to  have  been  promised,  and  to 
have  attained,  immortality  and  divine  honours  (see  above  p.  226, 
and  II. V.  iv.  35,  3,  where  it  is  said :  atha  aita  Vdjdh  amritasya 
panthdm  ganam  devdndm  Rilhavah  suhastdh  \  "  Then,  skilful  Yajas, 
Ribhus,  ye  proceeded  on  the  road  •  of  immortality,  to  the  assemblage 
of  the  gods;"  and  verse  8:  ye  devuso  ahhavata  sukrityd  syendh  iva 
id  adhi  divi  nisheda  \  te  ratnam  dhdta  savaso  napdtah  Sandhanvandh 
alhavata  amritdsah  \  "  Ye  who  through  your  skill  have  become  gods, 
and  like  falcons  are  seated  in  the  sky,  do  ye,  children  of  strength,  give 
us  riches;  ye,  o  sons  of  Sudhanvan,  have  become  immortal.").  This, 
however,  is  a  special  case  of  deification,  and  would  not  prove  that 
ordinary  mortals  were  considered  to  survive  after  the  termination  of 
their  earthly  existence.  There  are,  however,  a  few  other  passages 
which  must  be  understood  as  intimating  a  belief  in  a  future  state  of 
happiness.  T'hus  Agni  is  said  in  i.  31,  7,  to  exalt  a  mortal  to  immor- 
tality (tvam  tarn  Agne  amritatve  uttame  martam  dadhdsi} ;  and  to  be  the 
guardian  of  immortality  (adaldho  gopdh  amritasya  rakshita].  And  the 
same  power  is  ascribed  to  Soma  in  i.  191,  1  :  tava  pranltl  pitaro  nah 
Indo  deveshu  ratnam  alhajanta  dhlrdh  \  "By  thy  guidance,  o  Soma, 
our  sage  ancestors  have  obtained  riches  among  the  gods ;  "  and  again, 
inverse  18  :  apydyamdno  cetnritdya  Soma  divi  sravdmsi  uttamdni  dhishvu  \ 
"Soma,  becoming  abundant  to  (produce) ,,immortality,  place  (for  us) 
excellent  treasures  in  the  sky."411  Some  other  passages  to  the  same 

111  Professor  Benfey,  however,  translates  different!}- :  "  take  possession  of  the  highest 
renown  in  heaven." 


IMMORTALITY  IN  THE  EARLIER  BOOKS  OF  THE  RIG-VEDA.     285 

effect  are  the  following:  i.  125,  5.  Ndlcasya prishthe  adhi  tishtliati  srito 
yo  prindti  sa  ha  deveshu  gachhati  \  6.  Dakshinavatdm  id  imdni  chitrd 
dakshindvatdm  divi  surydsah  \  dakshindvanto  amritam  bhajante  dakshind- 
vantah  pratirante  dyuhiiz  \  "  5.  The  liberal  man  abides  placed  upon  the 
summit  of  the  sky;  he  goes  to  the  gods.  6.  These  brilliant  things  are 
the  portion  of  those  who  bestow  largesses  ;  there  are  suns  for  them  in 
heaven  ;  they  attain  immortality ;  they  prolong  their  lives,  i.  154,  5. 
Tad  asya  priyam  abhi  pdtho*13  asydm  naro  yatra  devayavo  madanti  \ 
urultramasya,  sa  hi  bandhur  itthd  Vishnoh  pade  parame  madhvah  utsah  \ 
"  May  I  attain  to  that  his  I  Vishnu's)  beloved  abode  where  men  devoted 
to  the  gods  rejoice ;  for  that  is  the  bond  of  the  wide-striding  god — a 
spring  of  honey  in  the  highest  sphere  of  Vishnu."  i.  179,  6.  Ubhau 
varndv  rishir  ugrah  puposha  satydh  deveshu  dstsho  jagdma  \  "  The 
glorious  rishi  practised  both  kinds 4U :  he  realised  his  aspirations  among 
the  gods."  In  v.  4,  10,  the  worshipper  prays  :  prajdbhir  Agne  amrit- 
vam  asydm  \  "  May  I,  Agni,  with  my  offspring,  attain  immortality."415 
In  v.  55,  4,  the  Maruts  are  besought  to  place  their  worshippers  in  the 
condition  of  immortality  (uto  asmdn  amritatve  dadhdtana).  v.  63,  2 : 
vrishtim  vdm  rddho  amritatvam  Imahe  \  <f  We  ask  of  you  twain  (Mitra 
and  Varuna)  rain,  wealth,  immortality."  vii.  57,  6.  Daddta  no  amri- 
tasya  prajdyai  \  which  Professor  Roth,  s.v.  prajd,  explains:  "add  us 

412  The  same  idea  is  repeated  in  x.  107,  2  (iichha  divi  dakshinavanto  asthur  ye 
asvadah  saha  te  suryena  \  hiranyadah  amritatvam  bhajante  vasodah  soma  pra  tirante 
ayuk  \  "  The  givers  of  largesses  abide  high  in  the  sky  ;  the  givers  of  horses  live  with 
the  sun ;  the  givers  of  gold  enjoy  immortality ;  the  givers  of  raiment  prolong  their  lives." 

413  The  same  word  which  is  here  employed,  pTithas,  occurs  also  in  iii.  55,  10: 
Vishnur gopah paramam  pati pfithah  priya  dhnmani  ainrita  dadhanah  \  "Vishnu,  a 
protector,  guards  the  highest  abode,  occupying  the  beloved,  imperAhable  regions." 
See   also  i.  162,  2;  x.  70,  9,  10.     In  i.  163,  13,  the  hofte  which  had  been  immo- 
lated is  said  to  have  gone  to  the  highest  abode,  to  the  gods  (upa  pra gat  paramam 
sadastham  arvan  acha  pitaram  mataram  cha  \   adya  dcvan  jtishtatamo  hi  gamyoK). 
In  ii.  23,  8,  mention  is  made  of  uttaram  sumnam  "the  highest  happiness,"  and  in 
ii.  25,  5,  of  the  "happiness  of  the  gods"   (devanaih  sumne]  ;   but  it  does  not  appear 
whether  heaven  is  meant.     In  i.  159,  2,  Heaven  and  Earth  seem  to  be  declared  to 
provide  large  immortality  for  their  offspring  (uru  prajnyah  amritam]. 

414  Sayana  explams'»aWi#w  varnau  by    "pleasure   and  austerity"    kamam   cha 
tapas  cha].       > 

415  See,  however,  Sayana's  gloie  and  "Wilson's  note,  in  loco,  where  the  immortality 
referred  to  is  explained  as  immortality  through  offspring,  and  ?$  consisting  in  an  un- 
broken succession  of  descendants,  the  immortality  of  a  mortal  (amritatvam  santaty- 
avichheda-lakshanam  \    "prajam  anu  prajayate  tad  u  te  martya  amritam"  iti  hi 
srutih). 


286    REFERENCES  TO  THE  FATHERS  IN  THE  RIG-VEDA. 

to  (the  number  of)  the  people  of  eternity,  i.e.  to  the  blessed."  vii.  76, 
4.  Te  id  devdndm  sadhamddah  dsann  ritd>:dnah  kavayah  purvydsah  \ 
"  They  were  the  companions  of  the  gods, — those  ancient  righteous 
sages."  viii.  58,  7.  TJd  yad  Iradhnasya  vishtapam  griham  Indras  cha 
ganvahi  \  madhvah  pitva  sachevahi  trih  sapta  sakhyuh  pade  \  "When  we 
two,  Indra  and  I,  go  to  the  region  of  the  sun,  to  our  home,  may  we, 
drinking  nectar,  seek  thrice  seven  in  tiie  realm  of  the  friend."  Com- 
pare viii.  48,  3,  quoted  above  in  p.  90,  note  :  We  have  drunk  the 
Soma ;  we  have  become  immortal ;  we  have  entered  into  light ;  we 
have  known  the  gods." 

Vata  is  also  declared  to  have  a  store  of  immortality  in  his  house  (te 
grille  amritasya  nidhir  hitah).  But  this  verse  occurs  in  a  late  hymn 
(the  186th)  of  the  tenth  Mandala.  In  the  same  Book,  x.  95,  18,  the 
promise  is  made  by  the  gods  to  Pururavas,  the  son  of  Ila,  that  though 
he  was  a  mortal,  when  his  offspring  should  worship  them,  with  obla- 
tions, he  should  enjoy  happiness  in  Svarga,  heaven  (iti  tvd  devdh  ime 
dhur  Aila  yathem  etad  bhavasi  mrityulandhuh  \  prajd  te  devdn  havishd 
yajuli  svarge  u  tvam  api  mudayuse}. 

(2)  References  to  the  Fathers,  the  souls  of  departed  ancestors,  in  the 
earlier  looks  of  the  Rig-veda. 

The  following  passages  appear  to  refer  to  the  souls  of  deceased  an- 
cestors conceived  of  as  still  existing  in  another  world  : 

i.  36,  18.  Agnind  Turvasam  Yadum  pardvatah  Ugradevam  havdmahe  \ 
"Through  Agni  we  call  Turvasa,  Yadu,  and  Ugradeva  from  afar." 
iii.  55,  2.  Mo'sJiu  no  atra  juhuranta  devdh  md  purve  Agne  pit/irah  pad- 
ajndh  I  "Let  not  the  gods  injure  us  here,  nor  our  early  Fathers  who 
know  the  realms."  vi.  52,  4.  Avantu  main  Uskaso  jdyamdndh  avantu 
md  sindhavah  pinvamdndh  \  avantu  md  parvatdso  dhruvdso  avantu  md 
pitaro  devahutau  \  "  May  the  rising  Dawn,  the  swelling  rivers,  the  firm 
mountains,  protect  me ;  may  the  Fathers  protect  me  in  my  invocation 
to  the  gods."  vi.  75,  JO.  Brdhmandsah  pitarati  somyasah  sive  no 
Dydvdprithivl  aneliasd  \  Pushd  nah  pdtu  duritad  ritdvridhah  \  "May 
the  Brahmans,  Fathers,  drinkers  of  Soma,  may  Heaven  and  Earth  be 
propitious  to  us.  May  Pushan,  the  promoter  of  sacred  rites,  preserve 
us  from  calamity/'  vii.  35,  12.  S'am  nah  satyasya  patayo  lhavantu 


HYMNS  RELATING  TO  YAM  A  AND  THE  FATHERS.  287 

£a,m  no  arvantah  sam  u  santu  gdvah  \  sam  nah  Ribhavah  sulcritah  suhastuh 
sam  no  bhavantu  pitaro  haveshu  \  "  May  the  lords  of  truth  be  propitious 
to  us,  and  so  may  the  horses  and  kine ;  may  the  skilful  lUbhus, 
dexterous  of  hand,  may  the  Fathers,  be  propitious  to  us  in  our  invo- 
cations." viii.  48,  13.  Team  Somct  pitribhih  samviddno  anu  dyavd- 
prilhivi  u  tatantha  \  "  Thou,  tSoma,  in  concert  with  the  Fathers,  hast 
extended  the  Heaven  and  Earth*" 

I  may  also  introduce  here  a  few  detached  texts  on  the  same  subject 
from  the  ninth  and  tenth  books :  ix.  83,  3.  Mdi/dvino  mamire  asiia 

'  */  «/ 

may  ay  a  nrichaJcshasah  pitaro  garlJiam  ddadhuh  \  "By  his  wondrous 
power,  the  skilful  have  formed,  the  Fathers,  beholders  of  men,  have 
deposited  the  germ."  x.  68,  11.  Abhi  sydvam  na  Tcrisanebhir  asvatn 
nakshatrelhih  pitaro  dydm  apifhsan  \  "The  Fathers  have  adorned  the 
sky  with  stars,  as  a  bay  horse  is  decorated  with  pearls  (?)."  x.  88,  15. 
Dee  srutl  asrinavam  pitrindm  aham  devdndm  uta  martydndm  \  "  I  have 
heard  of  two  paths  for  mortals,  that  of  the  Fathers,  and  that  of  the 
gods."416  x.  107,  1.  Mahi  jyotih  pitribhir  dattam  agat  \  "The  great 
light  given  by  the  Fathers  has  arrived." 

In  the  Taittirlya  Brahmana,  and  in  the  Puranas,  the  Fathers 
(Pritris)  are  represented  as  being  a  distinct  order  of  beings  from  men, 
as  may  be  gathered  from  their  being  separately  created.  See  the  1st 
vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  23  f.,  37,  58,  79  f. 

(3)  Hymns  relating  to  Yama  and  the  Fathers. 

I  now  come  to  the  passages  in  the  ninth  and  tenth  books  to  which 
I  first  alluded :  and,  owing  to  the  great  interest  and  importance  of  the 
subjects  to  which  they  refer,  I  shall  first  quote  tlfe  most  essential  parts 
of  them  at  length,  and  then  supply  a  summary  of  the  conclusions 
which  they  assert  or  involve, 

I  shall  begin  with  the  brief  account  of  Yama's  parentage  in  the 
seventeenth  hymn,  already  quoted  above,  p.  227,  and  the  dialogue 
betwixt  him  and  hi|  twin  sister  YamI,  in  the  tenth  hymn  of  the  tenth 
book. 

R.V.  x.  17,  1.  "  Tvashtri  Snakes  a  marriage  for  his  daughter.  (Hoar- 
ing)  this,  this  whole  world  assembles.  The  mother  of*  Yama,  becoming 

41s  See  the  1st  vol.  of  this  Work,  p.  434. 


288  HYMNS  RELATING  TO  YAMA  AND  THE  FATHERS. 

wedded,  the  wife  of  the  great  Vivasvat,  disappeared.  2.  They  con- 
cealed the  immortal  (bride)  from  mortals.  Making  (another)  of  similar 
form,  gave  her  to  Vivasvat.  And  she  bore  the  Asvins  when  that  hap- 
pened. Saranyu  abandoned  the  two  pairs  of  twins."  41T 

The  following  hymn  contains  a  dialogue  between  Yama  and  his  twin 
sister  Yami,  in  which,  according  to  Processor  Koth,  she  is  to  be  con- 
sidered as  urging  a  matrimonial  unuwiobetween  them  for  the  continua- 
tion of  the  human  species,  of  which,  in  the  opinion  of  that  writer,  they 
appear  to  have  been  regarded  as  the  earliest  pair.418  In  verse  4,  they 
are  declared  to  have  been  the  offspring  of  the  Gandharva  and  his  wife. 

R.V.  x.  10,  I.419  0  chit  sakhdyam  sakhyd  vavritydm  tirah  puru  chid 
arnavam  jaganvdn  \  pitur  naputam  a  dadhlta  vedhuh  adhi  kshami  prata- 
ram  dldhydnah  \  2.  No,  te  sakhd  sakhyam  vashti  etat  salakshmd  yad 
vishurupd  bhavati  \  maJias  putrdso  asurasya  virdh  divo  dharttdrah  uruiyd' 
pari  khyan  \  3.  Usanti  gha  te  amritdsah  etad  ekasya  chit  tyajasam  mart- 
yasya  \  ni  te  mano  manasi  dhdyi  asme  janyuh  patis  tanvam  d  vivisytih  \ 

4.  Na  yat  purd  chakrinia  kad  ha  nvnam  ritd  vadanto  anritaih  rapema  \ 

• 

417  After  this  section  was  first  written  I  received  Professor  Max  Muller's  second 
series  of  Lectures  on  the  Science  of  Language.     The  learned  and  ingenious  author 
there  discusses  at  length  the  meaning  of  the  myths  regarding  Vivasvat,  Saranyu,  and 
their  offspring  (pp.  481  ff.,  and  508  ff.).     He  understands  Vivasvat  to  represent  the 
sky,  Saranyu  the  dawn,  Yama  originally  the  day,  and  Yami,  his  twin  sister,  the 
night  (p.  509).     I  shall  briefly  refer,  as  I  proceed,  to  some  of  his  further  explana- 
tions, leaving  the  reader  to  consult  the  work  itself  for  fuller  information. 

418  See  Professor  Roth's  remarks  on  Yama  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental 
Society,  iv.  426,  and  in  the  Journal  of  the  American  Oriental  Society,  iii.  335  f. 
"  They  are,"  he  says,  "  as  their  names  denote,  twin  brother  and  sister,  and  are  the 
first  human  pair,  the  originators  of  the  race.     As  the  Hebrew  conception  closely 
connected  the-  Barents  of  mankind  by  making   the  woman  formed?  from  a  portion 
of  the  body  of  the  man,  go  by  the  Indian  tradition  they  are  placed  in  the  relation- 
ship of  twins.     This  thought  is  laid  by  the  hymn  in  question  in  the  mouth  of  Yami 
herself,  when  she  is  made  to  say :  '  Even  in  the  womb  the  Creator  made  its  for 
man  and  wife.'  "  Professor  Miiller,  on  the  other  hand,  says  (Lect.,  2nd  ser.,  p.  510) : 
"  There  is  a  curious  dialogue  between  her  (Yami)  arid  her  brother,  where  she  (the 
night)  implores  her  brother  (the  day)  to  make  her  his  wife,  and  where  he  declines 
her  offer,  'because,'  as  he  says,  'they  have  called  it  a  sin  that  a  brother  should  marry 
his  sister.'  "     Again,  p.  521.  "There  is  not  a  single  word  in  the  Veda  pointing  to 
Yama  and  Yami  as  the  first  couple  of  mortals,  as  the  Indian  Adam  and  Eve.  ...  If 
Yama  liad  been  the  first  created  of  men,  surely  the  Vedic  poets,  in  speaking  of  him, 
could  not  have  passed  this  over  in  silence."     See,  however,  the  passage  from  the 
A.V.  xviii.  3,  13,  torbe  quoted  further  on. 

419  This  hymn  is  repeated  in  the  A.V.  xviii.  1,  1  ff.     I  am  indebted  to  Professor 
Aufrecht  for  some  improvements  in  my  translation. 


HYMNS  RELATING  TO  YAMA  AND  THE  FATHERS.  289 

Gandharvo  apsu  apyd  cha  yoshd  sd  no  ndbhih  paramamjdmi  tan  nau  \  5. 
Garbhe  nu  nau  janitd  dampatl  kar  devas  Tvashtd  savitd  visvarupah  \ 
nakir  asya  praminanti  vratdni  veda  ndv  asya  prithivi  uta  dyauh  j  6. 
Ko  asya  veda  prathamasya  ahnah  kah  Im  dadarsa  kah  iha  pra  vochat  \ 
brihan  Mitrasya  Varunasya  dhdma  had  u  bravah  dhano  vlchyd  nrin  \  7. 
Yamasya  ma  Yamydfh  kdmah'dgan  samdne  yonau  sahaieyydya  \  j'dyd 
iva  patye  tanvam  ririchydm  vi  chyl  vriheva  12°  rathyd  iva  chakrd  \  8.  Na 
tishthanti  na  hi  muhanti  ete  devdndm  spasah  iha  ye  charanti  \  (=Nir. 
v.  2)  anyena  mad  dhano  ydhi  tuyam  tena  vi  vriha  rathyd  iva  chakrd  \  9. 
Rdtrlbhir  asmai  ahabhir  dasasyet  Suryasya  chakshur  muhur  «n  mimlydt  \ 
diva  prithivyd  mithund  sabandhu  Yamlr  Yamasya  bibhriydd  ajdmi  \  10. 
(=Nir.  iv.  20)  A  gha  td  gachann  uttard  yugdni  yatra  jdmayah  krin- 
avann  ajdmi  \  upa  barbhrihi  vrishabhdya  bdhum  anyam  ichhasva  sulhage 
patim  mat  \  11.  Kim  bhrdtd  asad  yad  andtham  bhavdti  kirn  u  svasd  yan 
Nirritir  nigachhdt  \  kdma-mutd  bahu  etad  rapdmi  tanvd  me  tanvam 
sam  piprigdhi  \  12.  Na  vai  u  te  tanvd  tanvam  sam  paprichydm  pdpam 
dhur  yah  svasdram  nigachhdt  \  anyena,  mat  pramudah  kalpayasva  na  te 
bhrdtd  subhage  vashti  etat  \  13.  (=Nir.  vi.  28)  Bato  bata  asi  Yama 
naiva  te  mano  hridayam  cha  aviddma  \  anyd  kila  tvdm  kakshyd  iva 
yuktam pari  shvajdte  libujeva  vriksham421  \  14.  (=Nir.  xi.  34)  Anyam  u 
shu  tvam  Yami  anyah  u  tvdm  pari  shvajdta  libujeva  vriksham  \  tasya 
vd  tvam  manah  ichha  sa  va,  tava  adha  krinmhva  samvidam  subhadrdm  \ 

[Tami  says]  "  0  that  I  might  attract  a  friend  to  friendly  acts.  May 
the  sage  (Yama  ?),  after  traversing  a  vas?t  ocean,  receive  a  grandson  to 
his  father,  and  look  far  forward  over  the  earth.422  2.  (Yama.)  Thy 
friend  does  not  desire  this  intimacy  that  (his)  kinswoman  shoiild 
become  (^as)"an  alien.  The  heroes,  the  sons  of  the  great  Spirit,  the 
supporters  of  the  sky,  look  far  and  wide  around  (see  verse  8).  3. 
(Yami.)  The  immortals  desire  this  of  thee,  (they  desire)  a  descendant 
left  behind  by  the  one  sole  mortal.  Let  thy  soul  be  united  to 
mine.  As  a  husband,  penetrate  the  body  of  (thy)  wife.  4.  (Yama.) 
Shall  we  (do)  now  what  we  have  never  done  before  ?  Shall  we  wJio 
(have  been)  speakers  of  righteousness,  utter  unrighteousness  ?  The 

420  Compare* A.V.  vi.  90,  1 ;  vi.  127,  3. 

421  Compare  A.V.  vi.  8,  1.        * 

422  This  verse  occurs  with  variations, in  the  Sama-veda,  i.  340*    The  sense  of  it,  as 
well  as  some  others,  is  obscure.     If  the  sage  (vedhas]  mean  Yama,  his  father  may  be 
Vivasvat,  or  the  Gandharva,  and  the  grandson  of  the  latter  may  be  the  son  whom  Yami 
was  desirous  to  bear  to  her  twin  brother  (Yama).    Compare  the  first  half  of  verse  3. 

19 


290          HYMNS  RELATING  TO  YAMA  AND  THE  FATHERS. 

Gandharva  in  the  (aerial)  waters,  and  his  aqueous  wife 423 — such  is  our 
source,  such  is  our  high  relationship.  5.  (Yami.)  The  divine  Tvashtri, 
the  creator,  the  vivifier,  the  shaper  of  all  forms,  made  as  husband  and 
wife,  (while  we  were  yet)  in  the  womb.424  No  one  can  infringe  his 
ordinances.  Earth  and  heaven  know  this  of  us.  6.  (Yama.)  Who 
knows  this  first  day  ?  "Who  has  seen  it  $  Who  can  declare  it  ?  Yast 
is  the  realm  of  Mitra  and  Varuna.  WJiat  wilt  thou,  o  wanton  woman, 
say  in  thy  thoughtlessness  (?)  to  men  ?  7.  (Yami.)  The  desire  of 
Yama  has  come  upon  me,  Yami,  to  lie  with  him  on  the  same  couch. 
Let  me,  as  a  wife,  bare  my  body  to  my  husband.  Let  us  whirl  round 
like  the  two  wheels  of  a  chariot.  8.  (Yama.)  These  spies  of  the  gods 
who  range  throughout  this  world  stand  not  still,  neither  do  they  wink. 
Depart,  quickly,  wanton  woman,  with  some  other  man  than  me.  Whirl 
round  with  him  like  the  two  wheels  of  a  chariot.  9.  (Yami.)  Though 
she  should  wait  upon  him  by  night  and  by  day,  still  the  eye  of  the  sun 
would  open  again.  Both  in  heaven  and  earth  twins  are  closely  united. 
Let  Yami  treat  Yama  as  if  she  were  not  his  sister.  10.  (Yama.) 
Later  ages  shall  come  when  kinsmen  and  kinswomen  shall  do  what  is 
unbecoming  their  relation.  Spread  thy  arm  beneath  a  male.  Desire, 
o  fair  one,  another  husband  than  me.  11.  (Yami.)  How  can  a 
man  be  a  brother,  when  (a  woman)  is  left  without  a  helper  ? 
And  what  is  a  sister,  when  misery  (is  allowed  to)  come  upon  her? 
Overcome  by  desire,  I  am  thus  importunate.  Unite  thy  body  with 
mine.  12.  (Yama.)  I  will  net  unite  my  body  with  thine.  They  call 
him  a  sinner  who  sexually  approaches  his  sister.  Seek  thy  gratifi- 
cation with  some  other  than  me.  Fair  one,  thy  brother  desires  not 
this.425  13.  (Yami.)425  Thou  art  weak,  alas,  o  Yama;  we  perceive  not 

*23  Compare  Miiller's  Lectures,  2nd.  series,  p.  483.     He  takes  Gandharva  for 
Vivasvat,  and  his  aqueous  wife  (Apya.  Yosha)  for  Saranyu,  in  accordance  with  Siiyana. 

424  In  like  manner  Tvashtri  is  said,  A.V.  vi.  78,  3,  to  have  formed  a  husband  and 
wife  for  each  other.     See  above,  p.  225  ;  also  viii.  72,  8. 

425  The  Atharva-veda  (xviii.  1,  13,  14)  expands  this  verse  into  two  :  na  te  natham 
Yqmi  atraham  asmi  na  te  tanum  tanva  sam  paprichyam  f  anyena  mat  pramudah 
kalpayasva  na  te  bhrata  subhage  vashti  etat   \   14.  Na  vai  u  te  tanum  tanva  sam 
paprichyam  papam  ahur  yah  wasaram  nigachhat  \   asamyact  etad  manaso  hrido  me 
bhrata  svasuh  sayane  yat  s'ay7ya  \  "I  am  not  in  this  thy  helper,  o  Yarn!  ;  I  will  not 
unite  my  body  with  thine.     Seek  thy  gratification  'ivith  some  other  than  me.     Fair 
one,  thy  brother  desites  not  this.     I  will  not  unite  my  body  with  thine.     They  call 
him  a  sinner  who  sexually  approaches  his  sister.     This  is  abhorrent  to  my  soul  and 
heart,  that  I,  a  brother,  should  lie  on  my  sister's  bed." 

128  This  verse  is  quoted  and  explained  in  Nirukta,  vi.  28. 


HYMNS  RELATING  TO  YAM  A  AND  THE  FATHERS.  291 

any  soul  or  heart  in  thee.  Another  woman  shall  enlace  and  embrace 
thee  like  a  girdle,  or  as  a  creeping  plant  a  tree.  14.  (Yama.)  Thou 
shalt  embrace  another  man,  o  Yami,  and  another  man  thee,  as  a  creep- 
ing plant  a  tree.  Do  thou  desire  his  heart,  and  he  thine.  Make  then 

a  fortunate  alliance." 4Z7 

• 

The  next  hymn  I  quote  is  addressed  to  Yama. 

E.Y.  x.  14,  1  (=f  A.V.  xviii.  f,  49.  Nir.  x.  20).  Pareyivdmsam  pra- 
vato  malar  anu  lahulhyah  panthdm  anupaspasdnam  \  Vaivasvatam  sanga- 
manam  jandndm  Yamam  rdjdnam  havishd  duvasya  \  [A.Y.  xviii.  3,  13. 
Yo  mamdra  prathamo  martydndm  yah  preydya  prathamo  lolcam  etam  \ 
Vaivasvatam  sangamanaih  jandndm  Yamam  rdjdnam  havishd  sapar- 
yata] 428  |  2.  Yamo  no  gdtum  prathamo  viveda  naishd  gavyutir  apalhar- 
tavai  u  \  yatra  nah  purve  pitarah  pareyur  end  jajndndh  pathydh  anu 
svdh  |  3.  Mdtall  Kavyair  Yamo  Angirobhir  Brihaspatir  Rikvabhir 
vavridhdnah  \  Yams  cha  devdh  vavridhur  ye  cha  devdh  svdhd  anye  sva- 
dhayd  anye  madanti  \  4.  Imam  Yama  prastaram  d  hi  slda  Angirobhih 
pitrilhih  samviddnah  \  d  tvd  manirdh  kavi-sastdh  vahantu  end  rdjan 
havishd  mddayasva  \  5.  AngirobJiir  dgahi  yajniyebhir  Yama  Vairupair 
iha  mddayasva  \  Vivasvantam  huve  yah  pitd  te  asmin  yajne  larhishi  d 
nishadya  \  6.  Angiraso  nah  pitaro  Navagvdh  Atharvdno  Bhrigavah  som- 
ydsah  \  teshdm  vayam  sumatau  yajniydndm  api  lhadre  saumanase  sydma  \ 

7.  Prehi  prehi  pathibhih  purvyelhir  yatra  nah  purve  pitarah  pareyuh  \ 
ulhd  rdjdnd  svadhayd  madantd  Yamam  pasydsi  Varunam  cha  devam  \ 

8.  Sangachhasva  pitrilhih  sam  Yamena  ishtdpurttena  parame  vyoman  \ 
hitvdya  avadyam  punar  astam  ehi  sangachhasva  tanvd  suvarchdh  \   9. 
Apeta  vita  v%  cha  sarpatdto  asmai  etam  pitaro  lokam  akran  \  aholhir 
adbhir  akbubhir  vyaktam  Yamo  daddti  avasdnam  asmai  \   10.  Ati  drava 
Sdrameyau  svdnau  chaturalcshau  sabalau  sddhund  pathd  \  atha  pitrln 
suvidatrdn  upehi  Yamena  ye  sadhamddam  madanti  \  11.  Yau  te  bvdnau 
Yama  rahshitdrau   chaturahshau  pathiralcshl  nrichalcshasau  \   tdlhydm 

427  It  appears  from  Professor  Aufrecht's  Catalogue  of  the  Bodleian  Sanskrit  MSS. 
p.  82,  that  the  Narasinia  Purana,  i.  13,  contains  a  dialogue  between  Yama  and 
Yami ;  but  I  am  informed  by  Dr.  Hall,  who  has  looked  at  the  passage,  that  the 
conversation  does  not  appear  to  be  «n  the  same  subject  as  that  in  the  hymn  before  us. 

428  Compare  A.V.  vi.  28,  3  :   Yah  prathamah  pravatam  asasacfa  bahubhyah  pan- 
tham anupaspasanah  \  yo  asya  Ise  dvipttdo  yas  chatushpadas  tasmai  Yamaya  namo 
astu  mrityave  \  "  Reverence  to  that  Yama,  to  Death,  who  first  reached  the  river, 
spying  out  a  path  for  many,  who  is  lord  of  these  two-footed  and  four-footed  creatures." 


292          HYMNS  RELATING  TO  YAMA  AND  THE  FATHERS. 

enam  pan  deJii  rdjan  svasti  cha  asmai  anamwam  cha  dhehi  \  12.  Urunasdv 
asutripd  udumbalau  Yamasya  dutau  charato  jandn  anu  \  tdv  asmabhyam 
drisaye  surydya  punar  ddtdm  amm  adyeha  bhadram  \  13.  Yamdya 
somam  sunuta  Yamdya  juhuta  havih  \  Yamam  ha  yajno  gachhati  agni- 
duto  arankritah  \  14.  Yamdya  ghritavad  havir  juhota  pra  cha  tishthata  \ 
sa  no  deveshu  d  yamad  dlrgham  dyuh  pra  jlvase  \  15.  Yamdya  madhu- 
mattamam  rdjne  havyam  juhotana  \  idam  namah  rishibhyah  purvajebhyah 
purvebhyah  pathikridbhyah  \ 

"Worship  with  an  oblation  King  Yama,  son  of  Yivasvat,  the  as- 
sembler of  men,  who  departed  to  the  mighty  streams,429  and  spied  out 
the  road  for  many.  [Compare  Atharva-veda,  xviii.  3,13:  '  Rever- 
ence ye  with  an-  oblation  Yama,  the  son  of  Vivasvat,  the  assembler  of 
men,  who  was  the  first  of  men  that  died,  and  the  first  that  departed  to 
this  (celestial)  world.']  2.  Yama  was  the  first  who  found  for  us  the 
way.  This  home  is  not  to  be  taken  from  us.  Those  who  are  now 
born  (follow)  by  their  own  paths  to  the  place  whither  our  ancient 
fathers  have  departed.  3.  Hatali  magnified  by  the  Kavyas,  Yama  by 
the  Angirases,  and  Brihaspati  by  the  Eikvans  —  both  those  whom  the 
gods  magnified,  and  those  who  (magnified)  the  gods  —  of  these  some 
are  gladdened  by  Svaha,  and  others  by  Svadha.  4.  Place  thyself, 
Yama,  on  this  sacrificial  seat,  in  concert  with  the  Angirases  and 
Fathers.  Let  the  texts  recited  by  the  sages  bring  thee  hither.  Delight 
thyself,  o  king,  with  this  oblation.  4.  Come  with  the  adorable  An- 
girases ;  delight  thyself  here,  Yama,  with  the  children  of  Virupa.430 
Seated  on  the  grass  at  this  sacrifice,  I  invoke  Vivasvat,  who  is  thy 
father.  6.  ,(Nir.  xi.  19.)  May  we  enjoy  the  good  wilL  and  gracious 


ig  ig  the  rendering  of  the  words  pravato  mahlr  anu,  adopted  by  Roth  in  his 
Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  p.  138.  In  support  of  this  sense  of  mighty  (celestial) 
waters,  he  refers  to  R.V.  ix.  113,  8  (which  I  shall  quote  further  on),  and  to  verse  9 
of  this  hymn.  In  his  article  on  the  story  of  Jemshid,  in  the  Journal  of  the  German 
priental  Society,  iv.  426,  he  had  translated  the  words,  "from  the  deep  to  the  heights;" 
and  Dr.  Haug,  in  his  "  Essays  on  the  Sacred  Language,  etc.,  of  the  Parsees,"  p.  234, 
similarly  renders,  "  from  theodepths  to  the  heights."  In  th£  Atharva-veda,  xviii.  4,  7, 
however,  where  the  same  words  occur,  tlrthais  taranti  pravato  mah'r  iti  yajnakritah 
sukrito  yena  yanti  ("  They  cross  by  fords  the  great  rivers,  [by  the  road]  which  the 
virtuous  offerers  of  sacrifice  pass,")  they  seem  more  likely  to  mean  the  mighty  streams. 
Compare  Professor  Miiller's  Lectures,  ii.  515. 

430  Virupa  is  mentioned  in  R.V.  i.  45,  3  ;  viii.  64,  6  ;  and  the  Virupas  in  iii.  53, 
6,  and  x.  62,  5  f.     See  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  246  and  note. 


HYMNS  RELATING  TO  YAMA  AND  THE  FATHERS.  293 

benevolence  of  those  adorable  beings,  the  Angirases,  our  Fathers,  the 
Navagvas,  the  Atharvans,  the  Bhrigus,  offerers  of  soma.  7.  Depart 
thou,431  depart  by  the  ancient  paths  (to  the  place)  whither  our  early 
fathers  have  departed.  (There)  shalt  thou  see  the  two  kings,  Tama  and 
the  god  Varuna,  exhilarated  by  the  oblation  (svadha),  (or,  exulting  in 
independent  power).  8.  Meet  with  the  Fathers,  meet  with  Tama,432 
meet  with  the  [recompense  of  $  the  sacrifices  thou  hast  offered 433  in. 
the  highest  heaven.  Throwing  off  all  imperfection  again  go  to  thy 
home. 434  Become  united  to  a  body,  and  clothed  in  a  shining 

431  The  following  verses  (as  appears  from  Professor  Muller's  Essay  on  the  funeral 
rites  of  the  Brahmans,  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  for  1855,  p.  xi.)  are 
addressed  at  funerals  to  the  souls  of  the  departed,  while  their  bodies  are  being  con- 
sumed on  the  funeral  pile. 

432  The  A.V.  xviii.  2,  21  is  as  follows:  21.  Hvayami  te  manasa  manahiheman 
grihan  upa  jujushanah  ehi  \  sam  gachhasva  pitribhih  sam  yamena  syorids  tva  vatah 
upa  vantu  sagmah  \  22.  "Ut  tva  vahantu  Maruto  udavahah  udaprutah  \  ajena  krin- 
vantu  sttam  varshenokshantu  bal  iti  \   23.  Ud  ahvam  ayur  ayushe  kratve  dakshaya 
jwase  |  svan  gachhatu  te  mano  adha  pitrm  upa  drava  \  "With  my  soul  I  call  thy 
soul;  come  with  delight  to  these  abodes  ;.meet  with  the  Fathers,  meet  with  Yama  ; 
may  delightful,  pleasant  breezes  blow  upon  thee.      22.  May  the  water-bringing, 
water-shedding   Maruts  bear  thee  upward,  and  creating  coolness  by  their  motion, 

sprinkle  thee  with  rain.    23 May  thy  soul  go  to  its  own  (kindred),  and  hasten 

to  the  Fathers." 

433  The  phrase  ishtapurta  is  explained  by  Dr.  Haug  (Ait.  Br.  ii.  p.  474,  note). 
Ishta,  he  says,  means  "what  is  sacrificed,"  and  apurtta,  "filled  up  to."     "  For  all 
sacrifices  go  up  to  heaven,  and  are  stored  up  there  to  be  taken  possession  of  by  the 
sacrificer  on  his  arrival  in  heaven."  The  words  before  us  will  therefore  mean  "rejoin 
thy  sacrifices  which  were  stored  up."     The  Atharva-veda,  xviii.  2,  20,  expresses  the 
sentiment  here  referred  to  by  Dr.  Haug  in  these  words:  svadhah  yas  chakrishe 
jlvams  fas  te  santu  madhuschutah  \  "  May  the  oblations  which  thou  offeredst  while 

alive  (now)  drop  thee  honey."  And  in  A.V.  xi.  1,  36,  it  is  said :  etaih  sukritair 
anu  gachema  -tjajnam  nake  tishthantam  adhi  saptarasmau  \  "  With^hese  good  deeds 
may  we  foTlow  the  sacrifice  which  abides  in  the  heaven  vith  seven  rays."  Compare 
A.V.  vi.  122,  4:  yajnam  yantam  manasa  brihantam  anvarohami  tapasa  sayonih\ 
upahutah  Agne  jarasah  parastat  tritlye  nake  sadhamadham  madema  \  "  With  my 
soul  I  ascend  after  the  great  sacrifice  as  it  goes,  dwelling  together  with  my  austere- 
fervour  ;  may  we,  Agni,  invited,  enjoy  a  festival  in  the  third  heaven  beyond  (the 
reach  of)  decay."  And  A.V.  vi.  123,  2 :  anvaganta  yajamanah  svasti  ishtapurtam 
sma  krinutavir  asmai  \  4.  Sa  pachami  sa  dadami  sa  yaje  sa  dattad  ma  yusham  ]•  5. 
Viddhi  purtasya  no  rayrn  sa  deva  sumana  bhava  \  2.  "  The  sacrificer  will  follow  in 
peace  ;  show  him  what  he  has  offered.  4.  I  cook,  I  'give,  I  offer  oblations ;  may  I 
not  be  separated  from  what  I  have  given.  5.  0  king,  recognise  what  we  have  be- 
stowed ;  be  gracious."  Compare  A.V.  iii.  29,  1. 

434  Miiller  (in  the  Essay  just  referred  to,  p.  xiv.)  translates  this  verse  thus :  "  Leave 
evil  there,  then  return  home,  and  take  a  form,"  etc.    This  rendering  appears  to  make 
the  departed  return  to  this  world  to  resume  his  body,  though  in  a  glorified  state. 


294          HYMNS  RELATING  TO  TAMA  AND  THE  FATHERS. 

form.435  9.  Go  ye,  depart  ye,  hasten  ye  from  hence.436  The  Fathers 
have  made  for  him  this  place.  Yama  gives  him  an  abode m  dis- 
tinguished by  days,  and  waters,  and  lights.  10.  By  an  auspicious 
path  do  thou  hasten  past  the  two  four-eyed  brindled  dogs,  the 
offspring  of  Sarama.  Then  approach  the  benevolent  Fathers  who 
dwell  in  festivity  with  Yama  (compare  A.V.  xviii.  4,  10).  11.  In- 
trust him,438  o  Yama,  to  thy  two  ibur-eyed,  ro/id-guarding,  man- 
observing  watch-dogs;  and  bestow  on  him  prosperity  and  health.  12. 
The  two  brown  messengers  of  Yama,  broad  of  nostril  and  insatiable, 
wander  about  among  men.439  May  they  give  us  again  to-day  the  auspi- 
cious breath  of  life,  that  we  may  behold  the  sun.  13.  Pour  out  the 
soma  to  Yama,  offer  him  an  oblation.  To  Yama  the  sacrifice  pro- 
ceeds when  heralded  by  Agni  and  prepared.  14.  Offer  to  Yama  an 
oblation  with  butter,  and  be  active.  May  he  grant  us  to  live  a  long 

which  does  not  seem  to  bring  out  a  good  sense.  Roth,  on  the  other  hand  (in  Journ. 
Germ.  Or.  Society,  iv.  428),  connects  the  wortl  punah  with  what  precedes,  and  renders 
the  verse  thus :  "  Enter  thy  home,  laying  down  again  all  imperfection,"  etc. 

435  The  A.V.  xviii.  2,  24,  says  :  ma  te  mano  ma  'sor  nid  'ngdndm  ma  rasasya  te  \ 
ma  te  hdsta  tanvah  kinchaneha  \  25.  Ma  tvd  vrikshah  sam  bddhishta  ma  devt  prit hivJ 
maht  |  lokam  pitrishu  vitvd  edhasva  Yamarajasu  \  26.  Yat  te  angam  atihitam  para- 
chair  apatiah  prdno  yah  u  vdte  paretah  \  tat  te  sangatya  pitarah  sanldah  ghdsdd 
ghdsam  punar  a  ves'ayantu  \  "Let  not  thy  soul  nor  anything  of  thy  spirit  («*«),  or 
of  thy  members,  or  of  thy  substance,  or  of  thy  body,  disappear.     25.  Let  no  tree  vex 
thee,  nor  the  great  divine  earth.   Having  found  an  abode  among  the  Fathers,  flourish 
among  the  subjects  of  Yama.    26.  "Whatever  member  of  thine  has  been  removed  afar, 
or  breath  of  thine  has  departed  in  tfie  wind,  may  the  combined  Fathers  reunite  them 
all  with  thee." 

436  These  words,  according  to  Professor  Miiller,  are  addressed  to  evil  spirits. 

437  Avasdnam.     Compare  A.V.  xviii.  2,  37,  where  Yama  is  said  to  recognise  those 
who  are  his  owd :  daddmi  asmai  avasdnam  etad  yah  esha  dgdd  mama  fhed  abhud 
iha  |  Yamas  chikitvdn prati  etad  aha  mamaisha  rdye  upa  tishthatdm  iha  \  "I  give 
this  abode  to  this  man  who  has  come  hither,  if  he  is  mine.    Yama,  perceiving,  says 
again,  '  He  is  mine,  let  him  come  hither  to  prosperity.'  " 

438  See  Roth,  Journal  German  Oriental  Society,  iv.  428,  at  the  foot,  and  his  ex- 
planation ofpari  dehi,  s.v.  da  (see  also  x.  16,  2 ;  and  A.V.  viii.  2,  20,  22).     Miiller, 
on  the  other  hand  (p.  xiv.),  translates  :  "  Surround  him,  Yama,  protecting  him  from 
the  dogs,"  etc. 

439  The  two  dogs  of  Yama  are  also  mentioned  in  A.V.  viii.1,  9,  where  one  of  them 
is  said  to  be  black  (sydma)  and  the  other  spotted  (sabala).     In  A.V^  viii.  2,  11,  the 
messengers  of  Yama,  who  wander  among  men,  are.  spoken  of  in  the  plural,  without 
being  described  as  dogs  ( Vaivasvatena  prahitdn  Yama-dutdms  charato  'pa  sedhdmi 
sarvdn).     In  A.V.  v.  30,  6,  they  are  spoken  'of  as  two  :  dutau  Yamasya  ma  'nugdh 
adhijivapurd  ihi  \  "  Do  not  follow  Yama's  two  messengers ;  come  to  the  cities  of  the 

^ving."  In  A.V.  viii.  8, 10  f.  also  the  messengers  of  Death  and  Yama  are  mentioned. 


HYMNS  EELATING  TO  YAM  A  AND  THE  FATHERS.  295 

life  among  the  gods.  15.  Offer  a  most  honied  oblation  to  king  Yama. 
Let  this  salutation  (be  presented)  to  the  earliest-born,  the  ancient 
rishfe,  who  made  for  us  a  path." 

Hymn  15  of  the  same  Mandala  is  addressed  to  the  Fathers,  or 
departed  ancestors,  who,  as  we  have  already  seen,  are  conceived  to  be 
living  in  a  state  of  blessedness  in  the  other  world,  though  in  some 
places,  as  we  shall  «ee,  some  of  tfiem  are  conceived  to  have  other  abodes. 
I  will  quote  some  verses  from  it,  which  will  show  still  further  their 
enjoyments,  powers,  and  prerogatives : — 

x.  15,  1.  Ud  Iratdm  avare  ut  pardsah  ud  madhyamdh  pitarah  som- 
ydsah  \  asum  ye  lyur  avrikdh  ritajnds  te  no  avantu  pitaro  haveshu  \  2. 
Idam  pitrilhyo  namo  astu  adya  ye  purvdso  ye  upardsah  lyuh  \  ye 
pdrthive  rajasi  d  nishattdh  ye  vd  nunam  suvrijandsu  vikshu  \  ....  5. 
Upahutdh  pitarah  somydso  barhishyeshu  nidhishu  priyeshu  \  te  d  gamantu 
te  iha  iruvantu  adhi  Iruvantu  te  avantu  asmdn  \  6.  Achy  a  jdnu  dak- 
shinato  nishadya  imam  yajnam  alhi  grinlta  visve  \  md  himsishta  pitarah 
kena  chin  no  yad  vah  dgah  purushutd  kardma  \  7.  Aslndso  arumndm 
upasthe  rayim  dhatta  dusushe  martydya  \  putrelhyah  pitaras  tasya 
vasvah  pra  yachhata  te  ihorjam  dadhdta  \  8.  Te  nah  purve  pitarah 
somyaso  anuhire  somapltham  vasishthdh  \  telhir  Yamah  samrardno 
havlmshi  usann  usadbhih  pratikdmam  attu  \  .  .  .  .  l<f.  Ye  satydso  havi- 
rado  havishpdh  Indrena  devaih  saratham  dadhdndh  \  d  Ague  ydhi  sahas- 
ram  devavandaih  paraih  purvaih  pitrilhjr  gharmasadlhih  \  11.  Agni- 
shvdttdh  pitarah  d  iha  gachhata  sadah  sadah  sidata  supramtayah  \  atta 
havlmshi  pray  aid  ni  larhishi  atha  rayim  sarvavlram  dadhdtana  |  . .  .  .  13. 
Ye  cheha  pifaro  ye  cha  neha  ydm&  cha  vidma  yarns  cha  na  pravidma  \ 
tvam  vettha  yati  te  jdtavedah  svadhdlhir  yajnam  wkritam  jushasva  \  14. 
Ye  agnidagdhdh  ye  anagnidagdhdh  madhye  divah  svadhayd  mddayante  \ 
tebhih  svardl  asunltim  etdm  yathdvasam  tanvam  kalpayasva  \ 

"1  (=Y.  S.  19,  49;  Mr.  11,  18).  Let  the  lower,  the  upper,  and 
the  middle  Fathers,  the  offerers  of  soma,  arise.  May  these  Fathers, 
innocuous,  and  versed  in  righteousness,  who  have  attained  to  (higher) 
life  (asu)  uo  protect  us  in  the  invocations.  2*(=Y.  S.  19,  68).  Let  this 
reverence  be  to-day  paid  to.  the  Fathers  who  departed  first,  and  who 
(departed)  last,  who  are  situated^  in  the  terrestrial  splfere,441  or  who  are 

440  Compare  the  word  asura,  "Spirit,"  and  asumti,  in  verse  14,  below. 

441  Compare  A. V.  xviii.  2,  49  :   Te  nah  pituh  pitaro  ye  pitamahah  ye  avivisur  ur\» 


296          HYMNS  RELATING  TO  YAMA  AND  THE  FATHERS. 

now  among  the  powerful  races  (the  gods) 5  (=Y.  S.  19,  57). 

Invited  to  these  favourite  oblations  placed  on  the  grass,  may  the 
Fathers,  the  offerers  of  soma,  come  ;  may  they  hear  us,  may  «they 
intercede  for  us,  and  preserve  us.  6  (=V.  S.  19,  62).  Bending  the 
knee,  and  sitting  to  the  south,  do  ye  all  accept  this  sacrifice.  Do  us  no 
injury,  o  Fathers,  on  account  of  any  offence  which  we,  after  the 
manner  of  men,  may  commit  against 'you.  7  (=Y^S.  19,  63).  Sitting 
upon  the  ruddy  [woollen  coverlets],  bestow  wealth  on  the  mortal  who 
worships  you.  Fathers,  bestow  this  wealth  upon  your  sons,  and  now 
grant  them  sustenance.  8  (=V.  S.  19,  51).  May  Yama  feast  accord- 
ing to  his  desire  on  the  oblations,  eager,  and  sharing  his  gratification 
with  the  eager  Yasishthas,  our  ancient  ancestors,  who  presented  the 
soma  libation.  10.  Come,  Agni,  with  a  thousand  of  those  exalted 
ancient  Fathers,  adorers  of  the  gods,  sitters  at  the  fire,  who  are  true, 
who  are  eaters  and  drinkers  of  oblations,  and  who  are  received  into 
the  same  chariot  with  Indra  and  the  gods.  11  (=Y.  S.  19,  59). 
Come  hither,  ye  Agnishvatta  Fathers ;  occupy  each  a  seat,  ye  wise 
directors ;  eat  the  oblations  uz  which  have  been  arranged  on  the  grass, 
and  then  bestow  wealth  on  us,  with  all  our  offspring443  ....  13. 
Thou  knowest,  o  Jatavedas,  how  many  those  Fathers  are  who  are  here 
and  who  are  not  tere,  those  whom  we  know  and  do  not  know ;  accept 


antariksham  \  ye  akshiyanti  prithivlm  uta  dyam  tebhyah  pitribhyo  namasa  vidhema  \ 
"  Let  us  worship  with  reverence  those  Fathers  who  are  the  fathers,  and  those  who 
are  the  grandfathers,  of  our  father ;  those  who  have  entered  into  the  atmosphere,  or 
who  inhabit  the  earth  or  the  sky."  See  also  A.V.  xviii.  3,  59. 

442  According  to  the  A.V.  xviii.  2,  28,  evil  spirits  sometimes  come  along  with  the 
Fathers :  ye  dffkyavo  pitrishu  pravishtah  jnatimukhah  ahutadas  charantj  \  parapuro 
nipuro  ye  bharanti  Agrnf  tan  asmat  pro,  dhamati  yajnat  \  "  May  Agni  blow  away 
from  this  sacrifice  those  Dasyus  who  have  no  share  in  the  oblations,  whether  they 
wear  gross  or  subtile  bodies,  who  come,  entering  among  the  Fathers,  with  the  faces  of 
friends."     Compare  V.  S.  ii.  30,  and  commentary. 

443  Compare  A.V.  vi.  41,  3 :  ma  no  hasishur  rishayo  daivyah  ye  tanupah  ye  nas 
tanvas  tanujah   \  amartyah  martyan   abhi  nah  sachadhvam  ayur  dhatta  prataram 

jtvase  nah  \  "Let  not  the  divine  rishis,  who  are  the  protectors  of  our  bodies,  forsake 
us.  Do  ye  who  are  immortal,  visit  us  who  are  mortals ;  puP  into  us  vitality  that  we 
may  live  longer."  A.V.  viii.  8,  15 :  Gandharvapsarasah  sarpan  deian  punyajanan 
pitfin  |  drishtan  adrishtan  ishnami  yathd  senam  amuih  hanan  \  "  I  incite  the  Gand- 
harvas,  Apsarases,  s<rpents,  gods,  those  holy  men  the  Fathers,  the  seen  and  the  un- 
seen, that  they  may  destroy  this  army."  According  to  the  Mahabharata,  Sabhapar- 
van,  461,  there  are  seven  troops  of  Pitris  or  Fathers,  four  embodied  (murttimantah] 
and  three  bodiless  (as'arlrinah). 


FUNERAL  HYMN  ADDRESSED  TO  AGNI.  297 

the  sacrifice  well  offered  with  the  oblations.  14  (=V.  S.  19,  60).  Do 
thou,  o  self-resplendent  god 444  —  along  with  those  (Fathers)  who, 
whether  they  have  undergone  cremation  or  not,  are  gladdened  by  our 
oblation — grant  us  this  (higher)  vitality  (a&uriiti}^5  and  a  body  ac- 
cording to  our  desire." 

A  funeral  hymn  addressed"  to  Agni446  (x.  16)  also  contains  some 
verses  which  illustrate  the  vie^w  of  the  writer  regarding  a  future  life : 

x.  16,  1.  Ma  enam  Ague  vi  daho  ma  'bhi  socho  ma  'sya  tvacham 
chikshipo  ma  sarlram  \  yadd  sritam  krinavo  Jatavedo  atJiem  enam,  pro, 
hinutdt  pitribhyah  \  2.  S'ritam  yadd  karasi  Jatavedo  athem  enam  pari 
dattdt  pitribhyah  \  yadd  gachhdti  asunltim  etdm  atha  devdndm  vasanir 
bhavdti  |  3.  Suryam  chakshur  gachhatu  vdtam  dtmd  dydm  cha  gachha  pri- 
thivlm  cha  dharmand  \  apo  vd  gachha  yadi  tatra  te  hitam  oshadhlshu  prati 
tishtha  sarlraih  \  4.  Ajo  bhagas  tapasd  tarn  tapasva  tarn  te  sochis  tapatu 
tarn  te  archih  \  yds  te  sivds  tanvo  Jdtavedas  tdbhir  vahainam  sukritdm  u 
lokam  |  5.  Ava  srija  punar  agne  pitribhyo  yas  te  dhutas  charati  svadhd- 
bhih  |  dyur  vasdnah  upa  vetu  seshajjt  sangachhatdih  tanvd  Jdtavedah  \  6. 
Yat  te  krishnah  sakunah  dtutoda  pipllah  sarpah  uta  vd  svdpadah  \  Agnis 
tad  vUvam  agadam  krinotu  Somas  cha  yo  brdhmandn  fivivesa  \ 

"  1.  Do  not,  Agni,  burn  up  or  consume  him  (the  deceased);  do  not 


*4i  As  Agni  is  addressed  in  the  two  preceding  verses,  it  might  have  been  supposed 
that  he  is  referred  to  in  this  epithet  of  self-resplendent  (svarat),  or  sovereign  ruler, 
especially  as  the  same  function  is  assigned  to  him  in  x.  16,  5,  as  is  assigned  to  the 
deity  addressed  in  this  verse.  But  the  commentator  on  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita,  19, 
60  (where  the  verse  occurs,  with  most  of  the  others  in  this  hymn,  though  not  in  the 
same  order),  understands  it  of  Yama;  as  does  also  Professor  Roth  (see  s.v.  asurittt) 
in  the  passagC  of  the  A.V.,  where  it  occurs  along  with  asurilti.  See  next  note. 

445  This  word  also  occurs  in  the  second  verse  of  the  ne*t,  the  16th  hymn.   In  R.V. 
x.  59,  5,  6,  it  appears  to  he  employed  as  the  personification  of  a  god  or  goddess. 
Professor  Miiller,  Journ:  R.A.S.  vol.  ii.  (1866),  p.  460,  note  2,  however,  considers 
that  "  there  is  nothing  to  show  that  Asuniti  is  a  female  deity."     "  It  may  he  a  name 
for  Yama,  as  Professor  Roth  supposes ;  hut  it  may  also  be  a  simple  invocation,  one  of  the 
many  names  of  the  deity."  He  himself  renders  it  "  guide  of  life,"  ibid.  In  A.V.  xviii. 
3,  59,  it  is  joined  with  svarat :  ye  nah pituh pitaro  ye  pitamahah  ye  avivisur  urv  an- 
tariksham  \  tebhyah  syarad  asumtir  no  adya  yathavaiam  tanvah  kalpayati  \  "  May 
the  monarch  %(or  self-resplendent  being)  who  bestows  vitality  fashion  for  the  fathers 
and  grandfathers  of  our  father,  who  have  entered  the  wide  atmosphere,  and  for  us  to- 
day, bodies  according  to  our  desire." 

446  According  to  Professor  Miiller  (Funeral  Rites  of  the  Brahmans,  p.  xi.  f.)  some 
verses  from  this  hymn  are  repeated  after  those  from  hymn  14,  while  the  remains  of 
the  departed  are  being  burnt. 


298  FUNERAL  HYMN  ADDRESSED  TO  AGNI. 

dissolve  his  skin,  or  his  body.447  When  thou  has  matured"8  him,  o 
Jatavedas,  then  send  him  to  the  Fathers.  2.  When  thou  maturest 
him,  Jatavedas,  then  consign  him  to  the  Fathers.  When  he  shall 
reach  that  state  of  vitality,  he  shall  then  fulfil  the  pleasure  of  the 
gods.  3.  Let  his  eye  go  to  the  sun,449  his  breath  to  the  wind.  Go  to 
the  sky,  and  to  the  earth,  according  to  (the)  nature  (of  thy  several 
parts) ;  or  go  to  the  waters,  if  that  is  Suitable  for  thee;  enter  into  the 
plants  with  thy  members.  4.  As  for  his  unborn  part,  do  thou  (Agni) 
kindle  it  with  thy  heat ;  let  thy  flame  and  thy  lustre  kindle  it ;  with 
those  forms  of  thine  which  are  auspicious  convey  it  to  the  world  of 
the  righteous.450  5.  Give  up  again,  Agni,  to  the  Fathers,  him  who 

447  Compare  A.V.  xviii.  4,  10-13.     In  the  sixty-fourth  verse  of  the  same  hymn  it 
is  said :  yad  vo  Agnir  ajahad  ekam  angam  pitrilokam  gamayan  jatavedah  \  tad  vah 
punar  a  pyayayami  sangah  svarge  pitaro  madayadhvam  \  "  Whatever  limh  of  you 
Agni  Jatavedas  left  behind,  when  conveying  you  to  the  world  of  the  Fathers,  that  I 
here  restore  to  you.     Revel  in  heaven,  ye  Fathers,  with  (all)  your  members." 

448  Compare  A.V.  xviii.  4,  12. 

449  In  A.V.  viii.  2,  3,  a  man  dead,  or  in  danger  of  dying,  is  addresed  in  these 
words :  vatat  te  pranam  avidam  suryach  chakshur  aham  tava  \  yat  te  manas  tvayi 
tad  dharayami  sam  vitsva  angair  vada  jihvaya  alapan  \  "  I  have  obtained  thy  breath 
from  the  wind,  thine  eye  from  the  sun ;  I  place  in  thee  thy  soul  (manas} ;  have  sen- 
sation in  thy  limbs ;  speak,  uttering  (words)  with  thy  tongue."     Compare  A.V.  v. 
24,  9 :  Suryas'  chakshusham  adhipatih  \  "  Surya  is  the  superintending  lord  of  the 
eyes  ;"  and  A.V.  xi.  8,  31 :  Suryas  chakshur  Vatah  pranam  purushasya  vi  bhejire  \ 
"  Surya  occupied  the  eye,  and  Vata  (the  wind)  the  breath  of  Purusha  (or  man)."  See 
also  A.V.  xix.  43,  2,  3.     Compare  further  Plato,  Repub.  vi.  18,  where  Socrates  says  of 
the  eye  :  'AAA.'  ir]\ioeiSfa'Tar6i'  ye  61/j.ai  riav  irepl  ras  a.ia6i)ff€is  opyavuv,    "I  regard  it 
[the  eye]  as  of  all  the  organs  of  sensation,  possessing  the  most  affinity  to  the  sun."  Eur. 
Suppl.  532  f.  "OQev  S'fKaffTov  eis  rb  ffeafj.'  atyiicfTO,  'evravG'  a7rrjA.#e,  irvevfj.a  /j-eif  irpbs 
atfepa,  rl  ffta^a.  S'es  yrjv  •    "  But  each  element  of  the  body  has  departed  to  the 
quarter  whence  ft  came,  the  breath  to  the  aether,  the  body  itself  to  the  e.arth."     A 
similar  idea  is  expressed  in0  a  verse  of  Goethe,  which  I  had  formerly  read,  and  for  a 
copy  of  which,  with  the  context,  I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Aufrecht.     The  passage 
occurs  in  the  introduction  to  the  Farbenlehre  (Ed.  1858,  vol.  xxxvii.  p.  5),  and  is  as 
follows :  "  Hierbei  erinnern  wir  uns  der  alten  ionischen  Schule,  welche  mit  so  groszer 
Bedeutsamkeit  immer  wiederholte :  nur  von  gleichem  werde  Gleiches  erkannt ;  wie 
auch  der  Worte  eines  alten  Mystikers,  die  wir  in  deutschen  Reimen  folgendermaszen 
austlriicken  mochten : 

War'  nicht  das  Auge  sonnenhaft,  * 

Wie  konnten  wir  das  Licht  erblicken  ? 

Lebt'  nicht  in  uns  des  Gottes  eigue  Kraft, 

Wj,e  kb'nnt'  uns  Gottliches  entziicken  ? 

Jene  unmittelbare  Verwandtschaft  des  Lichtes  und  des  Auges  wird  niemand  laugnen, 
aber"  u.s.w. 

460  In  AV.  xviii.  2,  36,  Agni  is  entreated  to  burn  mildly,  and  to  spend  his  fury  on  the 


VARIOUS  INVOCATIONS  OF  AGNI.  299 

comes  offered  to  thee  with  oblations.  Putting  on  life,  let  him  approach 
(his)  remains ;  let  him  meet  with  his  body,  o  Jatavedas.  6.  "Whatever 
part  of  thee  any  black  bird,  or  ant,  or  serpent,  or  beast  of  prey,  has 
torn,  may  Agni  restore  to  thee  all  that,  and  Soma  who  has  entered 
into  the  Brahmans.*'  Compare  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita,  xviii.  51.  Agnim 
yunajmijavasd  ghritena  divyam  suparnam  vayasd  brihantam  \  tenavayam 
gamema  bradhna^yc^  vishtapam  s9o  ruhdndh  adhi  ndkam  uttamam  \  52. 
Imau  te  pakshdv  ajarau  patatrinau  ydbhydm  rakshdmsi  apahamsi  Ague  \ 
tabby  am  patema  sulcritdm  u  lokam  yatra  risTiayo  jagmuh  prathamajdh 
purdndh  \  51.  "With  power  and  with  butter  I  attach  Agni,  the 
celestial  bird,  mighty  in  energy :  through  him  may  we  go  to  the  sphere 
of  the  sun,  ascending  the  sky  to  the  highest  heaven.  52.  Borne  by 
those  thine  undecaying,  flying  pinions,  wherewith  thou,  Agni,  slayest 
the  Rakshases,  may  we  soar  to  the  world  of  the  righteous,  whither 
the  ancient,  earliest-born  rishis  have  gone." 

In  various  parts  of  the  A.V.  Agni  is  similarly  addressed.  Thus  in 
vi.  120,  1.  Yad  antariksham  prithivlm  uta  dydm  yan  mdtaram  pitaram 
rdjihimsima  \  ay  am  tasmdd  gdrhupatyo  no  Agnir  ud  in  naydti  sukritasya 

woods  and  on  the  earth  (sum  tapa  ma  'ti  tapo  Agne  ma  tanvam  tapa  \  vaneshu 
s'ushmo  astu  te  prithivyam  astu  yad  haraJi).  The  Taittrlya  Brahmana  has  the  fol- 
lowing passage  :  iii.  10,  11,  1 :  Kas  chid  ha  vai  asmal  lokat  pretya  atmanam  veda 
"  ay  am  aham  asmi"  iti  \  kaschit  warn  lokam  na  pratijanati  agnimugdho  ha  eva 
dhuma-tantah  svam  lokam  na  pratijanati  \  at  ho  yo  ha  eva  etam  agnim  savitram  veda 
sa  eva  asmal  lokat  pretya  atmanam  veda  " ayam  aham  asmi"  iti  \  sa  svam  lokam 
pratijanati  esha  u  cha  eva  enam  tat  savitrah  svargam  lokam  abhi  vahati  \  "  One  man 
departing  from  this  world  knows  himself  that  '  this  is  I  myself.'  Another  does  not 
recognize  his  own  world.  Bewildered  by  Agni,  and  overcome  by  smoke,  he  does  not 
recognize  his  own  world.  Now  he  who  knows  this  Agni  Savitra,  when  he  departs 
from  this  world  knows  himself,  'that  this  is  I  myself.'  He  recognize^  his  own  world. 
This  Savitra  carries  him  to  the  heavenly  world."  A  few  lin%s  further  on  it  is  said  that 
the  days  and  nights  suck  up  in  the  next  world  the  treasure  of  the  man  who  does  not 
possess  a  particular  sort  of  knowledge,  whilst  he  who  knows  Agni  Savitra  finds  his  trea- 
sure not  sucked  up  (tani  ha  anevamvidusho  amushmin  loke  sevadhim  dhayanti  |  .  .  .  . 
atha  yo  ha  eva  etam  agnim  savitram  veda  tasya  ha  eva  ahoratrani  amushmin  loke 
sevadhim  na  dhayanti}.  The  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  4,  2,  6,  says  of  Agni :  Pratnam  sada&tham 
anupasyamanah  a  tantum  Agnir  divyam  tatana  \  tvam  nas  tantur  uta  setur  A$ne 
tvam  panthah  bhavasi  divayanah  \  tvaya  'gne  prishtham  vayam  aruhema  atha  devaih 
sadhamadam  madema  \  "Agni,  exploring  the  ancient  abode,  has  extended  the  celestial 
cord.  Thou,  Agni,  art  our  cord,  gnd  our  bridge ;  thou  art  the  path  which  conducts 
to  the  gods.  By  thee  may  we  ascend  to  the  summit  (of  heaven),  and  there  live  in 
joyful  fellowship  with  the  gods."  The?  same  Brahmana  says  in  another  place,  i.  5, 
2,  6,  that  the  stars  are  the  houses  of  the  gods,  and  that  whoever  knows  this  possesses 
houses  (devagrihah  vai  nakshatrani  \  yah  evam  veda  grihi  eva  bhavatfj. 


300  SUMMAEY  OF  THE  CONCEPTIONS 

lokam  |  "  Whatever  injury  we  have  done  to  air,  earth,  or  sky,  to 
father  or  mother,  may  Agni  Garhapatya  (delivering)  us  from  that, 
convey  us  up  to  the  world  of  righteousness."  xii.  2,  45.  Jlvdndm  dyuh 
pro,  lira  tvam  Ague  pitrlndm  lokam  api  gachhantu  ye  mritdh  \  "Do 
thou,  Agni,  prolong  the  lives  of  living  creatures ;  and  may  those  who 
are  dead  go  to  the  world  of  the  Fathers."  xviii.  3,  71.  Arabhasva 
jdtavedas  tejasvad  haro  astu  te  \  sartr^m  asya  sandaha  athainam  dhehi 
sukritdm  u  lake  \  "Seize  him,  Agni,  let  thy  heat  be  powerful;  burn 
his  body ;  then  place  him  in  the  world  of  the  righteous."  xviii.  4,  9. 
Purvo  'gnis  tvd  tapatu  sam  purastdd  sam  paschdt  tapatu  gdrhapatyah  \ 
dalcshindgnis  te  tapatu  sarma  varma  uttarato  madhyato  antarikshdd  diso 
diso  Ague  paripdhi  ghordt  \  10.  Yuyam  Ague  santamdlhis  tanulhir 
ydnam  alhi  lokam  svargam  \  asvdh  bhutvd  prishtivdho  vahdtha  yatra 
devaih  sadhamddam  madanti  \  "May  the  eastern  fire  warm  thee  pro- 
pitiously in  front  (or  to  the  east),  and  the  garhapatya  fire  behind  (or 
to  the  west) ;  may  the  southern  fire  warm  thee,  as  thy  defender  and 
protector:  Agni,  preserve  from  everything  dreadful  on  the  north,  in 
the  middle,  from  the  air,  and  from  every  side.  10.  Do  ye  (the 
various  forms  of)  Agni,  become  horses,  and  carry  the  sacrificer  on 
your  backs  in  your  most  gracious  forms  to  heaven,  where  men  hold 
festival  with  the  gods." 

(4)  Summary  of  the  conceptions  conveyed  in  the  preceding  quotations. 

I  shall  now  extract  from  these  texts  and  others  a  summary  of  the 
conceptions  which  they  convey. 

Tama  is  the  son  of  Vivasvat  (ix.  113,  8;  x.  14,  1  [^=A.Y.  xviii. 
1,  49]  ;  x.  14,  5 ;  X.--58,  1  ;  x.  60,  10),  and  of  Saranyu,  the  immortal 
daughter  of  Tvashtri  (x.  17,  1,  2).  He  is  elsewhere  said,  as  Professor 
Roth  considers 451  (see  above),  to  have  been  one  of  the  original  pair  of 

451  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  iv.  426  ;  Journal  of  American  Oriental 
Society,  iii.  335  ;  Illustrations  of  Nirukta,  p.  138.  As  Professor  Miiller  denies  (see 
above,  p.  288)  that  Yama  was  regarded  by  the  Vedic  poe,fs  as  the  first  man,  he 
explains  as  follows  (Lectures;  2nd  Series,  p.  514  ff.)  the  process  by  which  he  came 
to  be  transformed  into  the  monarch  of  the  dead :  "  Let  us  imagine,  then,"  he  says, 
"  as  well  as  we  can,  that  yama,  twin,  was  used  as  the  name  of  the  evening,  or  the 
setting  sun,  and  we'^shall  be  able  perhaps  to, understand  how  in  the  end  Yama  came 
to  be  the  king  of  the  departed  and  the  god  of  death.  As  the  East  was  to  the  early 
thinkers  the  source  of  life,  the  "West  was  to  them  Nirriti}  the  exodus,  the  land  of 


CONVEYED  IN  THE  PRECEDING  QUOTATIONS.  301 

human  beings  (x.  10,  2),  and  to  have  sprung  from  the  Gandharva,  a 
deity  of  the  atmosphere,  and  his  wife  (x.  10,  4).  In  the  same  hymn 
(passim]  he  is  declared  to  have  resisted  the  solicitations  of  his  twin- 
sister  Yarn!  to  form  a  sexual  union  with  her  for  the  continuation  ot 
the  species.452  He  was  the  first  of  mortals  who  died,  and  discovered 
the  way  to  the  other  world  ;*  he  guides  other  men  thither,  and  as- 
sembles them  in  a  home,  which  is  secured  to  them  for  ever  (x.  14, 1,  2; 
A.Y.  vi.  28,  3;  xviii.  1,  49,  50;  xviii.  3,  13).453  In  one  place  he  is 
represented  as  carousing  with  the  gods  under  a  leafy  tree,  R.V.  x. 

death.  The  sun,  conceived  as  setting  or  dying  every  day,  was  the  first  who  had 
trodden  the  path  of  life  from  East  to  West — the  first  mortal — the  first  to  show 
us  the  way  when  our  course  is  run,  and  our  sun  sets  in  the  far  West.".  .  .  .  "That 
Yama's  character  is  solar  might  be  guessed  from  his  being  called  the  son  of  Vivas- 
rat.  Vivasvat,  like  Yama,  is  sometimes  considered  as  sending  death.  R.V.  viii. 
67,  20  :  '  May  the  shaft  of  Vivasvat,  o  Adityas,  the  poisoned  arrow,  not  strike  us 
before  we  are  old !  "  '  [And  in  A.V.  xix.  9,  7,  it  is  said :  "  May  Mitra,  may  Varuna, 
may  Vivasvat,  may  the  Ender  (death)  be  favourable  to  us  (s'am  no  Mitrah  sam 
Varunah  s'am  Vivasvan  s'am  Antakah).  On  the  other  hand  Vivasvat  is  sometimes 
spoken  of  as  preserving  from  Yama.  Thus  in  A.V.  xviii.  3,  62,  it  is  said :  Vivasvan 
no  amritatve  dadhatu  paraitu  mrityur  amritam  nah  aitu  \  iman  rakshatu  purn- 
shan  a  jarimno  mo  shu  esham  asavo  Yamam  guh  \  "  May  Vivasvat  place  us  in  a 
state  of  immortality.  May  death  pass  away,  and  deathlessness  come  to  us.  May  he 
preserve  these  men  from  decay.  May  their  spirits  not  depart  to  Yama."— J.M.] 
.  .  .  .  "  His  (Yama's)  own  seat  is  called  the  house  of  the  gods  (x.  135,  7) ;  and  these 
words  follow  immediately  on  a  verse  in  which  it  is  said  :  '  the  abyss  is  stretched  out 
in  the  East,  the  outgoing  is  in  the  West."  (In  a  note  the  following  are  referred  to 
as  additional  passages  to  be  consulted,  viz.,  R.V.  i.  116,  2 ;  vii.  33,  9 ;  ix.  68,  3, 
5;  x.  12,  6  ;  x.  13,  2,  4  ;  x.  53,  3  ;  x.  64,  S1;  x.  123,  6.)  "These  indications, 
though  fragmentary,  are  sufficient  to  show  that  the  character  of  Yama,  such  as  we 
find  it  in  the  last  book  of  the  Rig-veda,  might  well  have  been  suggested  by  the 
setting  sun,  personified  as  the  leader  of  the  human  race,  as  himself  a  mortal,  yet  as  a 
king,  as  the  ruler  of  the  departed,  as  worshipped  with  the  fathers,  o§  the  first  witness 
of  an  immortality  to  be  enjoyed  by  the  fathers,"  etc.  »I  may  remark  that  in  the 
S'atap.  Br.  xiv.  1,  3,  4,  Yama  is  identified  with  the  sun  ;  but  he  is,  a  little  further  on, 
xiv.  2,  2,  11,  similarly  identified  with  Vayu. 

462  See  Professor  Roth's  observations  on  this  dialogue  in  the  Journal  of  the  Ameri- 
can Oriental  Society,  iii.  335  f. 

453  See  Professor  Roth's  remarks  on  these  passages  in  the  Journals,  etc.,  above 
referred  to.  In  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  iv.  427,  he  remarks  on 
these  hymns  :  "We  h^e  find,  not  without  astonishment,  beautiful  conceptions  on  im- 
mortality, expressed  in  unadorned  language  with  child-like  conviction.  If  it  were 
necessary,  we  might  here  find  the,  most  powerful  weapons  against  the  view  which  has 
lately  been  revived,  and  proclaimed  as  new,  that  Persia  was  the  only  birthplace  of 
the  idea  of  immortality,  and  that  evea  the  nations  of  Europe  had  derived  it  from  that 
quarter ;  as  if  the  religious  spirit  of  every  gifted  race  was  not  able  to  arrive  at  it  by 
its  own  strength." 


302  SUMMARY  OP  THE  CONCEPTIONS 

135,  1 4M  (yasmin  vrilcshe  supaldie  devaih  sampibate  YamaK).  He  is  a 
king,  and  dwells  in  celestial  light,  in  the  innermost  sanctuary  of 
heaven,  ix.  113,  7,  8  (see  above,  p.  226,  and  below,  where  the  passage 
•will  be  quoted  at  greater  length),  where  the  departed  behold  him 
associated  in  blessedness  with  Yaruna  (x.  14,  7).  He  grants  luminous 
abodes  in  heaven  to  the  pious  (x.  14,  9),  who  dwell  with  him  in 
festive  enjoyment  (x.  14,  8,  10).  In* the  A.Y.  xviii.  2,  32,  he  is  said 
to  be  superior  to  Vivasvat,  and  to  be  himself  surpassed  by  none  (  Tamah 
paro  'varo  Vivasvdn  tatah  param  na  ati  pasydmi  kinchana). 

In  the  Eig-veda  Yama  is  nowhere  represented  (as  he  is  in  the  later 
Indian  mythology) 455  as  having  anything  to  do  with  the  future  punish- 
ment of  the  wicked.  In  fact,  the  hymns  of  that  Yeda  contain,  as  far 
as  I  am  aware,  no  prominent  mention  of  any  such  penal  retribution ; 
but  the  passages  which  appear  to  recognize  the  existence  of  a  Tartarus 
will  be  quoted  further  on.  Nevertheless,  Yama  is  still  to  some  extent 
an  object  of  terror.  In  x.  14,  10-12,  he  is  represented  as  having  two 
insatiable  dogs,  with  four  eyes  and  .wide  nostrils,  which  guard  the  road 
to  his  abode,  and  which  the  departed  are  advised  to  hurry  past  with  all 
possible  speed.  These  dogs  are  said  to  wander  about  among  men  as 
his  messengers  (x.  14,  12),  no  doubt  for  the  purpose  of  summoning 
them  to  the  presence  of  their  master,  who  is  in  another  place,  x.  165,  4, 
identified  with  death,  and  is  described  as  sending  a  bird  as  the  herald 
of  doom  (yasya  dutah  prahitah  esha  etat  tasmai  Yamdya  namo  astu 

454  In  A.Y.  xviii.  4,  3,  the  Adityas  are  said  to  feast  on  honey  in  heaven  (madhu 
bhakshayantf). 

455  According  to  the  Puranas,  "  Yama  fulfils  the  office  of  judge  of  the  dead,  as 
well  as  sovereign  of  the  damned ;  all  that  die  appearing  before  him,  and  being  con- 
fronted with  Chitragupta,  the  recorder,  by  whom  their  actions  have  been'  registered. 
The  virtuous  are  thence  conveyed  to  Swarga,  or  Elysium,  whilst  the  wicked  are  driven 
to  the  different  regions  of  Naraka,  or  Tartarus."    (Wilson,  Vishnu  Parana,  p.  216  of 
Dr.  Hall's  ed.  vol.  2).    Chitragupta  is  described  in  the  following  tasteless  and  extra- 
vagant style  in  the  Yrihannaradlya  Purana,  quoted  in  Professor  Aufrecht's  Catalogue 
of  the  Bodl.  Sansk.  MSS.,  p.  10,  note :  Pralayambuda-nirghosho  anjanadri-sama- 
prabhah  \  vidyut-prabhayudhair  bhlmo  dvatrimsad-bhuja-spmyutah  \  yojana-traya- 
vistaro  raktaksho  dlrghanasikah  \  damshtra-karala-vadano  <*japitulya-vilochanah   \ 
mrityu-jvaradibhir  yuktas  chiJragupto   vibhlshanah-  \   "  The  dreadful  Chitragupta, 
with  a  voice  like  that  issuing  from  the  clouds  at  the  mundane  dissolution,  gleaming 
like  a  mountain  of  collyrium,  terrible  with  lightning-like  weapons,  having  thirty- 
two  arms,  as  big  as* three  yojanas,  red-eyedx  long-nosed,  his  face  furnished  with 
grinders  and  projecting  teeth,  his  eyes  resembling  oblong  ponds,  bearing   death 
and  diseases." 


CONVEYED  IN  THE  PRECEDING  QUOTATIONS.  303 

mrttyave,  compare  A.V.  vi.  29,  Iff.).  And  in  a  verse  of  the  A.V. 
(xviii.  2,  27),  death  is  said  to  be  the  messenger  of  Yama,  who  conveys 
the  spirits  of  men  to  the  abode  of  their  forefathers.  In  another  place 
(K.V.  x.  97,  16)  deliverance  is  sought  from  the  bonds  of  Yama,  as  well 
as  those  of  Varuna  (munchantu  ma  sapathyad  atho  Varunydd  uta  \  atho 
Tamasya  padblsat,  see  also  A».V.  viii.  7,  28).  In  K.V.  i.  38,  5,  too, 
where  it  is  said  (ma  vo  mrigo  rye  yavase  jarita  Ihud  ajoshyah  \  pathd 
Yamasya  gad  upa]  *'  Let  not  thy  worshipper  be  disregarded  like  a  wild 
animal  in  a  pasture,  or  go  along  the  road  of  Yama,"  Yama  is  equiva- 
lent to  death.  In  the  following  verse  (already  quoted)  of  the  A.V.  vi. 
28,  3,  also,  Yama  is  identified  with  Mrityu  (death) :  "  Reverence  be 
to  Yama,  death,  who  first  reached  the  river,  spying  out  the  road  for 
many,  who  is  lord  of  these  two-footed  and  four-footed  creatures." 
(This  verse  coincides  in  part  with  R.V.  x.  14,  1,  quoted  above.) 
Compare  also  A.V.  v.  30,  12;  vi.  63,  2.) 

When  the  remains  of  the  deceased  have  been  placed  upon  the 
funeral  pile,  and  the  process  of  cremation  has  begun,  Agni,  the  god  of 
fire,  is  prayed  not  to  scorch  or  consume  the  departed,  not  to  tear 
asunder  his  skin  or  his  limbs,  but  after  the  flames  have  done  their 
work,  to  convey  to  the  Fathers  the  mortal  who  has  been  presented  to 
him  as  an  offering.  The  eye  of  the  departed  is  bidden  to  go  to  the 
sun ;  his  breath  to  the  wind ;  and  his  different  members  to  the  sky, 
the  earth,  the  waters,  or  the  plants,  according  to  their  several  affinities. 
As  for  his  unborn  part  (ajo  IhagaK),  Agui  is  supplicated  to  kindle  it 
with  his  heat  and  flame,  and,  assuming  his  most  auspicious  form,  to 
convey  it  to  the  world  of  the  righteous  (x.  16.  1-5  ;  Vaj.  Sanh.  xviii. 
51  f.).456  Before,  however,  this  unborn  part  can  compleie  its  course 
from  earth  to  the  third  heaven,  it  has  to  traverse  a  vast  gulf  of  dark- 
ness.437 Leaving  behind  on  earth  all  that  is  evil  and  imperfect,  and 

456  In  the  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  2,  1,  1,  a  man  is  said  to  be  thrice  born ;  first  from  his 
father  and  mother,  the  second  time  through  sacrifice,  and  the  tMrd  time  when,  after 
death  and  cremation,  he  once  more  emerges  into  life  (trir  ha  vai  purusho  jayate  •  | 
etan  nu  eva  matus  cha  adhi  pitus  cha  agre  jayate  \  atha,  yam  yajnah  upanamatisa 
yad  yajate  tad  dvitlyam  jayate  \  atha  yatra  mriyate  yatra  enam  agnav  abhyadadhati 
sa  yat  tatah  sambhavati  tat  tritly  am  jayate). 

457  A.V.  ix.  5,  1.  A  nay  a  etam  aJ-abhasva  sukritam  lokam  api  gachhatu  prajanan  \ 
firlva  tamamsi  bahudha  mahanti  ajo  nakam  akramatam  tritlyant  \   3.  Pra  pado  'va 
nenigdhi  duscharitam  yat  chachara  suddhaih  saphair  a  kramatam  prajanan  \  tlrtva 
tamamsi  bahudha  vipasyann  ajo  nakam  akramatam  tritlyam  \  From  the  contents  of 


304  EESULTS  OF  THE  PRECEDING  QUOTATIONS. 

proceeding  by  the  paths  which  the  fathers  trod  (K.V.  x.  14,  7),  the 
spirit,  invested  with  a  lustre  like  that  of  the  gods,  A.Y.  xi.  1,  37  (yena 
devdh  jyotishd  dydm  uddyan  brahmaudanam  paktvd  sukritasya  lokam  \ 
tena  geshma  sukritasya  lokam  svar  drohanto  abhi  ndkam  uttamam),  soars 
to  the  realms  of  eternal  light  (ix.  113,  7,)  in  a  car,  or  on  wings  (A.V. 
iv.  34,  4),  on  the  undecaying  pinions  wherewith  Agni  slays  the  Rak- 
shases  (Vaj.  Sanh.  xviii.  52),  wafted  upwards  hy  the  Maruts,  fanned  by 
soft  and  gentle  breezes,  and  refrigerated  by  showers  (A.V.  xviii.  2, 
21  ff.) ;  recovers  there  its  ancient  body  in  a  complete  (A.V.  xviii.  2, 

verse  2  (where  the  aja  is  said  to  be  carried  to  Indra  as  his  share),  and  from  the 
mention  of  "hoofs"  in  verse  3,  I  am  now  led  to  think  that  these  verses  refer  to  a 
goat,  and  not  to  the  unhorn  spirit  (both  being  denoted  by  the  word  aja},  although 
some  of  the  expressions  seem  more  properly  applicable  to  the  latter  than  to  the  former. 
In  any  case,  however,  the  verses  prove  that  any  being  proceeding  from  earth  to 
heaven  has  to  traverse  a  region  of  darkness  before  he  can  reach  his  destination.  I 
translate  as  follows :  "  Convey  him  ;  carry  him ;  let  him,  understanding,  go  to  the 
world  of  the  righteous.  Crossing  the  gloom,  in  many  directions  immense,  let  the 
goat  ascend  to  the  third  heaven 3.  "Wash  his  feet  if  he  has  committed  wicked- 
ness :  understanding,  let  him  ascend  with  cleansed  hoofs.  Crossing  the  gloom,  gazing 
in  many  directions,  let  the  goat  ascend  the  third  heaven."  Compare  R.V.  i.  50,  10 
(=  A.V.  vii.  53,  7)  quoted  above  in  the  Section  on  Surya,  p.  160.  In  the  Vaj. 
Sanh.  xxxi.  18,  also,  the  great  Purusha,  of  sun-like  brightness  (aditya-varna),  is 
said  to  dwell  above  the  darkness  (tamasah  parastaf).  See  also  Manu,  iv.  242.  The 
commentator,  on  this  latter  passage,  however,  as  well  as  Eoth,  s.v.  tamas,  under- 
stands the  phrase  dustaram  tamas,  "  darkness  hard  to  cross,"  as  referring  to  hell. 
Compare  the  phrases  adhamam  tamas  and  andfyam  tamas,  to  be  adduced  further  on. 
The  word  aja  seems  to  have  the  spnse  of  "the  unborn"  in  different  passages  of  the 
R.V.,  and  in  A.V.  x.  7,  31  (see  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.,  2,  aja)  ;  but  it  may  have 
the  sense  of  "goat"  throughout  the  whole  of  A.V.  ix.  5,  though  B.  and  R.  adduce 
verse  7  as  one  of  the  places  where  it  means  "unborn."  That  verse,  however,  may 
be  rendered  thus  :  "  The  goat  is  Agni ;  they  call  the  goat  light ;  they-  say  that  a  goat 
is  to  be  given  by  a  living^man  to  the  priest.  A  goat,  when  given  in  thir.  world  by  a 
believing  man,  disperses  the  gloom  afar  (Ajo  Agnir  ajam  u  jyotir  ahur  ajamjivata 
brahmane  deyam  ahuh  \  ajas  tamamsi  apa  hanti  duram  asmin  loke  sraddadhanena 
dattah)."  In  the  same  way  it  is  said,  in  verse  10  :  Ajas  trinake  tridive  trip- 
rishtJie  nakasya  prishthe  dadivanisath  dadhati  \  panchaudano  brahmane  dTya- 
manah  \  "The  aj»  panchaudana,  given  to  a  priest,  places  him  who  bestows  it 
ip  the  third  heaven,  in  the  third  sky,  on  the  third  summit,  on  the  top  of  the 
heaven,"  and  in  verse  21 :  "  This  aja  panchaudana  is  an  illimitable  offering." 
In  the  A.V.  xviii.  2,  48,  rihere  are  said  to  be  three  heavens :  "  The  watery 
(udanvafi)  heaven  is  the  lowest,  the  pllumatl  is  the  intermediate  heaven,  and  the 
third  is  the  pradyaus,  in  which  the  Fathers  dwell"  (udanvati  dyaur  avama  pllu- 
matlti  madhyama  '\  tritlya  ha  pradyaur  iti  yasyam  pitarah  asate).  This  agrees 
with  the  mention  of  the  third  heaven  in  A.V.  ix.  5,  1.  Three  skies  (tisro  dyavah) 
are  also  mentioned  in  R.V.  vii.  101,  4  ;  and  in  R.V.  vii.  104,  11,  three  earths  (tisrah 


FURTHER  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  PARADISE,  ETC.     305 

24  ff.458  and  glorified  form,159  meets  with  the  forefathers  who  are  living 
in  festivity  with  Yama,  obtains  from  him,  when  recognized  hy  him  as 
one  of  his  own  (A.V.  xviii.  2,  37),  a  delectable  abode  (R.Y.  x.  14, 
8-10),  and  enters  upon  a  more  perfect  life  (K.V.  x.  14,  8  ;  x.  15, 
14;  x.  16,  2,  5),  which  is  crowned  with  the  fulfilment  of  all  desires 
(ix.  113,  9,  11),  is  passed  in  the  presence  of  the  gods  (x.  14,  14),  and 
employed  in  the  fulfilment  of  their  pleasure  (x.  16,  2). 

(5)  Further  quotations  from  the  hymns  on  the  subject  of  paradise  and 
future  punishment. 

In  the  following  passages  of  the  A.Y.  an  expectation  is  expressed 
that  the  family  relations  will  be  maintained  in  the  next  world  : — 
xii.  3,17:  Svargam  lokam  abhi  no  naydsi  sam  jay  ay  a  saha  putraih 

prithwr  adho  astu  visvah).  Professor  Roth,  s.v.  div.  refers  to  other  passages,  among 
which  is  R.V.  v.  60,  6.  Yad  uttame  Maruto  madhyame  va  yad  va  avame  subhagaso 
divi  stha  \  "Whether,  fortunate  Maruts,  ye  are  in  the  highest,  middle,  or  lowest, 
sky."  The  A.V.  iv.  20,  2,  says  there  are  three  heavens  and  three  earths  (tisro  divas 
tisrah  prithivlh) ;  and  A.V.  vi.  21,  says  there  are  three  earths,  of  which  our  earth 
(bhumi)  is  the  highest  (or  best)  (itnah  yas  tisrah  prithivls  tdsam  ha  bhumir  uttama). 

458  In  A.V.  ix.  5,  22-26,  it  is  said  that  the  man  who  hestows  an  aja  panchaudana, 
illuminated  by  largesses  (dakshina-jyotisham :  compare  hiranya-jyotisham,  A.V.  x. 
9,  6),  shall  not  have  his  bones  broken,  or  his  marrow  sucked  out,  but  shall  be  intro- 
duced whole  and  entire  (into  heaven) :  verse  23  (na  tasyastKni  bhindyat  na  majjno 
nirdhayet  \  sarvam  enam  samadaya  idam  idam  pra  vesayet  \  26.  Svargam  lokam 
asnute  yo  'jam  panchaudanaih  dakshinajyotisham  dadati).  These  passages,  in  which 
the  departed  are  said  to  recover  their  bodily  organization  in  all  its  completeness,  form 
a  striking  contrast  to  the  representations  in  the  Homeric  poems  regarding  the  un- 
substantial nature  of  the  ghosts  of  the  departed.  The  passage  of  the  Odyssey,  xi. 
488,  is  well  Jcnown,  in  which  Achilles  tells  Ulysses  that  he  would  rattter  be  the  slave 
of  a  poor  man  on  earth  than  rule  over  all  the  departed.  I  find,  however,  the  fol- 
lowing remarks  of  Professor  "Weber  (Ind.  Stud.  ii.  206,)  on  the  words  yatha  svapne 
tatha  pitriloke,  "  as  in  a  dream  so  in  the  world  of  the  Fathers,"  Katha  Upanishad, 
vi.  5.  "  This  is  evidently  a  popular  conception,  according  to  which  the  souls  of  the 
Fathers,  like  those  in  the  Grecian  Hades,  experience  no  waking,  but  only  a  kind  of 
dreamy  life.  I  have  as  yet  found  this  idea  (which  at  a  later  period  entirely  dis- 
appears) only  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xii.  9,  2,  2,  where  the  following  ex- 
planation of  Vilj.  Sanh,  20,  16  :  yadijagrad  yadi  svapne  enamsi  chakrima  vayam  [if 
we  have  committed  sins,  sleeping  or  waking]  is  given ;  manmhyah  vai  jagaritam 
pitarah  suptam  \  manushya-kilvisiiach  cha  enam  pitrikilvishach  munchati  \  ['  Men 
are  what  is  awake ;  the  Fathers  what  is  asleep.  He  frees  hill  from  the  sins  of 
men,  and  those  of  the  Fathers.']  " 

439  In  regard  to  the  celestial  body,  see  Roth,  in  the  Journal  of  the  American  Orien- 
tal Society,  vol.  iii.,  p.  343. 

20 


306  FURTHER  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  PARADISE,  ETC. 

sydma  \  "Do  thou  conduct  us  to  heaven;  let  us  be  with  our  wives460 
and  children." 

vi.  120,  3  :  Yatra  suhdrdah  sukrito  madanti  vihdya  rogam  tanvdh 
svdydh  \  aslondh  angair  ahrutdh  svarge  tatra  pasyema  pitarau  cha 
putrdn  \  "  In  heaven,  where  our  virtuous  friends  enjoy  blessedness, 
having  left  behind  the  infirmities  of  their  bodies,  free  from  lameness  or 
distortion  of  their  limbs,  may  we  behold  our  parents  and  our  children." 
(Compare  A.V.  iii.  28,  5  f.) 

ix.  5,  27  :  Yd  purvam  patifh  vittvd  athdnyam  vindate  patim  \  panch- 
audanam  cha  tdv  ajafh  daddto  na  vi  yoshatah  \  28.  Samdnaloko  bhavati 
punarlhuvd  'parah  patih  \  yo  'jam  panchaudanam  dakshinajyotisham 
daddti  |  ""When  a  woman  has  had  one  husband  before,  and  gets 
another,  if  they  present  the  aja  panchaudana  offering,  they  shall  not 
be  separated.  28.  A  second  husband  dwells  in  the  same  world  with 
his  re- wedded  wife,  if  he  offers  the  aja  panchaudana,  etc." 

xviii.  2,  23 :  Svdn  gachhatu  te  manah  adha  pitrln  upa  drava  \  "Let 
thy  soul  (manas)  go  to  its  own ;  and  hasten  to  the  fathers." 

The  enjoyments  of  this  future  state  are  said,  in  R.V.  ix.  113,  7ff., 
to  be  conferred  by  the  god  Soma,  and  are  described  as  follows  : 

7.  Yatra  jyotir  ajasram  yasmin  loke  svar  hitam  \  tasmin  mdm  dheM 
pavamdna  amrite  loke  akshaye  Indrdyendo  parisrava  \  8.  Yatra  rdjd 
Vaivasvato  yatrdvarodhanam  divah  \  yatrdmiir  yahvatlr  dpas  tatra  mdm 
amritam  kridhi  \  9.  Yatrdnykdmam  charanam  trindke  tridive  divah  \ 
lokdh  yatra  jyotishmantas  tatra  mdm  amritam  Tcridhi  \  10.  Yatra 
kdmdh  nikdmds  cha  yatra  Iradhnasya  vishtapam  \  svadhd  cha  yatra  tri- 
ptis  cha  tatra  mdm  amritam  kridhi  \  11.  Yatrdnandds  cha,  modus  mudah 
pramudah  dsate  \  kdxwsya  yatrdptdh  kdmds  tatra  mdm  amrifam  kridhi  \ 

7.  "Place  me,  o  purified  (Soma),  in  that  imperishable  and  un- 
changing world,  where  perpetual  light  and  glory  are  found.  8.  Make 
me  immortal  (in  the  realm)  where  king  Vaivasvata  (Yama)  dwells, 
where  the  sanctuary  of  the  sky  exists,  and  those  great  waters  (flow). 
9.  Make  me  immortal  in  the  third  heaven,  in  the  third  sky,  where 
action  is  unrestrained, 461%nd  the  regions  are  luminous.  10.  Make  me 

460  In  the  later  Indian  writings  the  widow  wko  burns  herself  on  her  husband's 
funeral  pile  is  supposed  to  rejoin  him  in  Svarga.     See  the  texts  cited  by  Colebrooke, 
Essays,  i.  116  f. 

461  "in  heaven  he  acts  according  to  his  pleasure"  (kamacharo  'sya  svarge  loke 
l>havati).—T:a.iit.  Br.  iii.  12,  2,  9.' 


FURTHER  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  PARADISE,  ETC.     307 

immortal  in  the  world  where  there  are  pleasures  and  enjoyments, — in 
the  sphere  of  the  sun, — where  ambrosia  and  satisfaction  are'  found.  11. 
Make  me  immortal  in  the  world  where  there  are  joys,  and  delights, 
and  pleasures,  and  gratifications  ;  where  the  objects  of  desire  are 
attained." 

The  pleasures  here  referred  to  are  most  probably  to  be  understood  as 
of  a  sensual  kind.46.2  Such  at  18ast  is  the  prospect  held  out  in  the 
following  passage  of  the  Atharva-veda,  iv.  34,  2  :  *° 

A.V.  iv.  34,  2.  Anasthdh  putdh  pavanena  suddhdh  iuchayah  suchim 
api  yanti  lokam  \  naishdm  sisnam  pradahati  jdtaveddh  svarge  lake  lahu 
strainam  eshdm  \  3.  Vishtdrinam  odanam  ye  pachanti  naindn  avartih 
sachate  Jcaddchana  \  dste  Yame  upa  ydti  devdn  sain  gandharvair  madate 
somyebhih  \  4.  Vishtdrinam  odanam  ye  pachanti  naindn  Yamah  part 
mushndti  retah  \  rathl  ha  hhutvd  rathaydne  lyate  pa&shl  ha  Ihutvd  'ti 
divah  sameti  \  "Boneless,46*  pure,  cleansed  by  the  wind,  shining,  they 

462  Roth  is,  however,  of  a  different  opinion.    He  says  (Journ.  Amer.  Orient.  Soc. 
iii.  343) :  "  The  place  where  these  glorified»ones  are  to  live  is  heaven.     In  order  to 
show  that  not  merely  an  outer  court  of  the  divine  dwellings  is  set  apart  for  them,  the 
highest  heaven,  the  midst  or  innermost  part  of  heaven,  is  expressly  spoken  of  as  their 
seat.     This  is  their  place  of  rest ;  and  its  divine  splendour  is  not  disfigured  by  any 
specification  of  particular  beauties  or  enjoyments,  such  as  those  with  which  other  re- 
ligions have  been  wont  to  adorn  the  mansions  of  the  blest ....  There  they  are 
happy :  the  language  used  to  describe  their  condition  is  the  same  with  which  is 
denoted  the  most  exalted  felicity."     He  then  quotes  the  verses  of  ix.  113,   7  ff. 
already  adduced,  and  adds:   "what .'.  .  .  shall  be  the  employment  of  the  blest,  in 
what  sphere  their  activity  shall  expend  itself;  to  tflis  question  ancient  Hindu  wisdom 
sought  no  answer.     The  words  used  in  verse  11  of  hymn  ix.  113  to  denote  the  grati- 
fications of  paradise,  viz  :  anandah,  modah,  pramudah,  are  employed  in  the  Taittiriya 
Brahmana,  ii.  4,  6,  5  f.,  to  signify  sexual  enjoyment  on  earth   (prajapatih  striyant 
yas'o  mushkayor  adadhat  sapam  \  kamasya  triptim  anandam  tasyagne  fyajayeha  ma  \ 
modah  pramodah  anando   mushkayor  nihitah  sapah   \   srttveva  kamasya  tripydni 
dakshinanam  pratigrahe). 

463  Compare  S'atap.  Br.  x.  4,  4,  4.   Tad  u  ha  vai  evamvit  tapas  tapyate  a  maithu- 
nat  sarvam  ha  asya  tat  svargam  lokam  abhisambhavati  \  "When  a  man,  knowing 
this,  practises  austere  fervour,  he  retains  in  heaven  all  his  functions,  even  to  that  of 
sexual  intercourse." 

461  Though  the  connection  is  merely  verbal,  I  quote  here  a  passage  from  the  Taitt. 
Sanh.  vi.  p.  10,  of  India  Office  MS.,  No.  1702  :  Brahmavadino  vadanti  kasmat  satyad 
anasthikena  praj  ah  pravly  ante' sthanvatlr  jay  ante  iti  \  yad  hiranyam  ghrite  'v  adhaya 
juhoti  tasmad  anasthikena  prajah  pravlyante  ' sthanvatlr  jayante  \  "Those  versed  in 
sacred  science  ask  on  what  principle  it  is  that  creatures  are  generated  by  a  boneless 
substance,  and  yet  are  born  with  bones  5*  It  is  because  the  sacrificer  places  gold  in 
the  fire  when  he  casts  into  it  his  oblation,  that  creatures  propagated  by  a  boneless 
substance  are  born  with  bones." 


308     FURTHER  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  PARADISE,  ETC. 

go  to  a  shining  region ;  Agni 465  does  not  consume  their  generative 
organ ;  in  the  celestial  sphere  they  have  abundance  of  sexual  gratifi- 
cation.466 3.  Want  never  comes  upon  those  who  cook  the  vishtarin 
oblation.  (Such  a  man)  abides  with  Yarna,  goes  to  the  gods,  and  lives 
in  blessedness  with  the  Gandharvas,  the  quaffers  of  soma.  4.  Yama 
does  not  steal  away  the  generative  power  of  those  who  cook  the  vish- 
tarin oblation.  (Such  a  man)  becomes  lord  of  a  chariot  on  which  he 
is  borne  along;  becoming  winged,  he  soars  beyond  the  sky."  In  that 
region  the  faithful  are  also  promised  ponds  filled  with  clarified  butter, 
honey,  wine,  milk,  and  curds  (verse  6).467 

It  is  clear,  in  fact,  that  in  the  Vedic  age  the  gods  themselves  were 
not  regarded  as  possessing  a  purely  spiritual  nature,  but  as  subject  to 
the  influence  of  various  sensual  appetites.  We  have  formerly  seen  how 
constantly  they  are  represented  as  delighting  in  the  soma-juice,  and  in 
the  exhilaration  which  it  produced.  Yama  is  described  as  carousing 
with  the  gods  (R.Y.  x.  135,  1),  the  Adityas  as  eating  honey  (A.V. 

465  This,  no  doubt,  alludes  to  the  fire  of  the  funeral  pile. 

466  Compare    Mahabharata,  xii.    3657 :    Varapsarah-sahasrani  s'uram  ayodhane 
hatam  \  tvaramana  'bhidhavanti  "mama  bharta  bhaved"  iti  \  "  Thousands  of  hand- 
some Apsarases  run  up  in  haste  to  the  hero  who  has  been  slain  in  battle  (exclaiming) 
'be  my  husband.' "     And  again,  v.  3667:  Abhlrunam  ime  lokah  bhasvanto  hanta 
pasyata,  \  purnah  gandharvakanyabhih  sarvakama-duho  'kshayah  \  "  Behold,  these 
shining  worlds  belong  to  the  fearless,  filled  with  maidens  of  the  Gandharvas,  and 
yielding  all  kinds  of  enjoyments."     In  like  manner,  the  Katha  Upanishad,  i.  25, 
refers   to   the  Apsarases  :    Ye   ye   kamah  durlabhah   martya-loke   sarvan  kamams 
chhandatah  prarthayasva  \  imah  ^amah  sarathah  saturyah  na  hi  Idrisah  lambharii- 
yah  manushyaih  \  abhir  mat-prattabhih  paricharayasva  \  "Ask  at  thy  will,  says 
Yama  to  Nachiketas,  all  those  pleasures  which  are  difficult  to  be  had  in  the  world  of 
mortals,  those  fair  ones  with  their  cars  and  instruments  of  music,-  for  such  as  they 
are  not  to  be  obtained  by  men ;   receive  them  from  me,  and  allow  thyself  to  be 
waited  on  by  them."     ('The  brief  germ  of  this  fine  Upanishad,  I  may  remark,— 
though  the  fact  had  been  before  noted  by  Professor  "Weber, — is  to  be  found  in  the 
Taitt.  Br.  iii.  11,  8,  1-6).     See  also  the  Kaushitaki  Upanishad,  as  translated  by 
Weber,  Ind.  Stud.  i.  398,  and  Cowell,  Bibliotheca  Ind.  p.  147. 

467  See  the  S'atap.  Br.  xiv.  7,  1,  32  ff.  (  =  Brih.  Arany.  Up.  pp.  817  ff.),  where  it  is 
said  that  the  enjoyments  of  the  Fathers  are  a  hundred  times  greater  than  those  of  a 
man  who  lives  in  perfect  prosperity,  is  the  lord  of  others,  and  enjoys  all  human 
pleasures  (sa  yo  manushyanam  raddhah  samriddho  bhavati  amjesham  adhipatih  sar- 
vair  manushyakaih  kamaih  sampannatamah  sa  manushyanam  paramah  anandah    \ 
33.  Atha  ye  satam  manushyanam   anandah  sa^pitrlnam  ekah  anandah).     In  the 
same  way,  the  enjoyments  of  the  Karmadevas,  those  beings  who  have  attained  the 
rank  of  gods  by  their  merits,  are  a  hundred  Cimes  greater  than  those  of  the  Fathers, 
and  again  the  enjoyments  of  the  gods  by  nature  (djanadevah)  are  a  hundred  times 
greater  than  those  of  the  Karmadevas,  etc. 


FURTHER  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  PARADISE,  ETC.  309 

xviii.  4,  3),  and  the  Fathers  as  indulging  in  festivity  or  revelry 
(sadhamddam  madanti}  with  Yama  (R.V.  x.  14,  10  :  compare  A.V. 
xviii.  4,  10).  Indra  is  said  in  R.V.  iii.  53,  6  (see  above,  p.  81  f.)  to 
have  a  handsome  wife,  and  pleasure,  in  his  house.  In  two  verses  of 
the  A.V.  xiv.  2,  31  f.,  the  young  bride  is  encouraged  to  ascend  the 
nuptial  couch,  and  become  the  mother  of  children,  by  the  consider- 
ation that  the  gods  had  been  the  first  to  enter  into  the  married 
state  and  indulge  in  carnal  intercourse  with  their  spouses  (a  -roha 
talpam  sumanasyamdnd  iha  prajdm  janaya  patye  asmai  \  32.  Devah 
agre  samapadyanta  patriih  samasprisanta  tanvas  tanulhik).  In  A.V.  iv. 
37,  11  f.,  the  Gandharvas,  a  class  of  gods,  who  are  described  as  hairy, 
like  dogs  and  monkeys,  but  as  assuming  a  handsome  appearance  to 
seduce  the  affections  of  earthly  females,  are  called  upon  to  desist  from 
this  unbecoming  practice,  and  not  to  interfere  with  mortals,  as  they 
had  wives  of  their  own*  the  Apsarases  (priyo  Arise  iva  bhutvd  gandhar- 
vah  sachate  striyam  \  tarn  ito  ndsaydmasi  brahmand  vlrydvatd  \  12. 
Jtiydh  id  vo  apsarasah  gandharvdh  ftatayo  yuyam  \  apa  dhdvata  amar- 
tydh  martydn  md  sachadhvam).  Compare  verses  2-4  and  7  of  the  same 
hymn  and  A.V.  xiv.  2,  35).  If  even  the  gods  were  imagined  by  the 
authors  of  these  hymns  to  have  such  a  decided  element  of  carnality  in 
their  nature,  it  is  scarcely  to  be  supposed  that  these  same  poets,  or 
their  contemporaries,  or  immediate  predecessors,  should  have  risen  to 
the  concep^on  of  a  purely  spiritual  heaven  as  the  reward  of  a  virtuous 
life  upon  earth.468 

In  one  passage  of  the  A.V.  iii.  29,  3,  immunity  from  taxation  seems  to 

468  It  may  be  objected  that  the  texts  which  I  have  cited  from  the  A.V.  furnish  no 
proof  of  the  meaning  of  those  in  the  Rig-veda,  as  the  former  collection  is  of  later 
date  than  the  latter.  But  (1)  the  hymns  of  the  A.V.  are  probably  not  much  posterior 
to  those  of  the  ninth  and  tenth  books  of  the  R.V.,  with  which  I  have  been  dealing ; 
and  (2)  the  state  of  opinion  reflected  in  the  texts  of  the  A.V.  need  not  be  supposed 
to  have  originated  contemporaneously  with  its  expression  in  these  particular  hymns, 
but  was  probably  handed  down  from  a  previous  period.  "We  ought  not  to  be  too 
incredulous  as  to  the  early  existence,  in  an  elementary  form,  of  ideas  which  appear  at 
first  sight  to  bear  the  character  of  a  later  age.  Thus  we  find  in  the  A.V.  x.  8,  43,*a 
reference  to  three  qualitu*  (gimas]  as  enveloping  the  lotus  with  nine  gates  (punda- 
rikaih  navadvarym  tribhir  gunebhir  avritam),  and  there  is  perhaps  no  reason  to 
doubt  that  here  the  three  gunas,  so,well  known  in  later  cosmogonies,  are  referred  to. 
Rajas  and  tamas,  two  of  these  qualities,  are  mentioned  together,  A,.V.  viii.  2,  1  (rajas 
tamo  ma  upagah}.  The  "name"  and  ''form"  (nama  and  rupa]  celebrated  by  the 
Vedanti'sts,  are  also  alluded  to  in  A.V.  x.  2,  12,  and  xi.  7,  1  (uchhishte  nama 
rupam  cha). 


310     FURTHER  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  PARADISE,  ETC. 

be  held  out  as  a  boon  to  be  anticipated  in  the  next  world.  It  is  there 
said  that  the  offerer  of  a  black-footed  sheep  "  ascends  to  the  sky  where 
no  tribute  is  paid  by  the  weak  to  the  stronger  "  (yo  daddti  sitipddam 
avim  lokena  sammitam  \  sa  ndkam  abhydrohati  yatra  suklo  [sulkah  ?]  na 
kriyate  abalena  bally ase),  and  in  verse  5  it  is  promised  that  a  person 
of  the  same  description  shall  "  live  for  ever  in  the  sun  and  moon  " 
(praddtd  upa  jlvati  surya-mdsayor  afcshitam). 

The  virtues  for  which  men  are  admitted  to  the  realms  of  the  blessed 
are  thus  described  in  hymn  154  of  the  tenth  book  of  the  K.V.  1.  Somah 
ekebhyah  pavate  ghritam  eke  updsate  \  yebhyo  madhu  pradhdvati  tdms 
chid  evdpi  gachhatdt  \  2.  Tapasd  ye  anddhrishyds  tapasd  ye  svar  yayuh  \ 
tapo  ye  chakrire  mahas  tdms  chid — |  3.  Ye  yudhyante  pradhaneshu  siirdso 
ye  tanutyajah  \  ye  vd  sahasradakshinds  tdn — |  4.  Ye  chit  purve  ritasdpah 
ritdvdnah  ritdvridhah  \  pitrln  tapasvato  Yama  tin — |  5.  Sahasranithdh 
kavayo  ye  gopdyanti  suryam  \  rishln  tapasvato  xama  tapojdn  api  gachh- 
atdt |  "  Soma  is  purified  for  some ;  others  seek  after  clarified  butter. 
Let  him  (the  deceased)  depart  to ,  those  for  whom  the  honied  beverage 
flows.  2.  Let  him  depart  to  those  who,  through  rigorous  abstraction 
(tapas"),  are  invincible,  who,  through  tapas,  have  gone  to  heaven;  to 
those  who  have  performed  great  tapas.  3.  Let  him  depart  to  the 
combatants  in  battles,  to  the  heroes  who  have  there  sacrificed  their 
lives,  or  to  those  who  have  bestowed  thousands  of  largesses.  4.  Let 
him  depart,  Yama,  to  those  austere  ancient  Fathers  who  ha^e  practised 
and  promoted  sacred  rites.  C5.  Let  him  depart,  Yama,  to  those  austere 
rishis,  born  of  rigorous  abstraction,  to  those  sages,  skilled  in  a  thousand 
sciences,  who  guard  the  sun." 469  (Compare  A.V.  xix.  43,  1  ff.) 

K.V.  i.  £25,  5,  and  x.  107,  2,  which  have  been  already  quoted 
above,  p.  285,  also  proclaim  the  rewards  of  liberality,  a  virtue  which 
the  Brahmans,  who  are  its  object,  have  always  been  forward  to  extol. 
(Compare  also  verse  8  of  the  hymn  last  referred  to.) 

The  Fathers  who  have  attained  to  the  heavenly  state  are  described 
as  being  objects  of  adoration  to  their  descendants.  They  are  said  to  be 
of  different  classes,  upper,  intermediate,  and  lowei',  or  those  who  inhabit 
the  heaven  (or  sky),  the  air,  and  the  earth  (R.V.  x.  15,  1 ;  A.Y.  xviii. 
2,  49),  while  iij  the  verse  preceding  the  one  last  quoted  (A.Y.  xviii.  2, 

469  These  verses  form  part  of  the  funeral  liturgy  of  the  Brahmans.  See  Muller,  on 
the  funeral  rites  of  the  Brahmans,  p.  xi. 


FURTHER  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  PARADISE,  ETC.     311 

48),  we  are  told  that  there  are  three  heavens,  of  which  the  Fathers 
occupy  the  third 'or  highest.  Their  different  races  are  mentioned  by- 
name, viz.,  Angirases,  Yairupas,  Navagvas,  Atharvans,  Bhrigus,  Yas- 
ishthas,  etc.  (R.Y.  x.  14,  4-6  ;  x.  15,  8).  Though  not  all  known  to 
their  worshippers,  they  are  known  to  Agni  (x.  15,  13).  Their  de- 
scendants offer  them  worship  and  oblations  (x.  15,  2,  9),  supplicate 
their  good  will  (x.  14,  6),  deprecate  their  wrath  on  account  of  any 
offences  which  may  have  been  committed  against  them  (x.  15,  6), 
entreat  them  to  hear,  intercede  for,  and  protect  their  votaries  (x.  15,  5), 
and  to  bestow  upon  them  opulence,  long  life,  and  offspring,  (x. 
15,  7,  11;  A.Y.  xviii.  3,  14:  Pardyata  pitarah  a  cha  ydta  ayam  vo 
yajrio  madhund  samaktah  \  datto  asmabhyam  dravineha  bhadram  rayim 
cha  nah  sarvavlram  dadhdta ;  xviii.  4,  62 :  Ayur  asmabhyam  dadhatah 
prajdm  cha  ray  as  cha  poshair  abhi  nah  sachadhvam).  They  are  re- 
presented as  thirsting  for  the  libations  prepared  for  them  on  earth 
(x.  15,  9)  ;  and  they  are  invited  to  come  with  Yama,  his  father 
Yivasvat,  and  Agni,  and  feast  with  avidity,  and  to  their  hearts' 
content,  on  the  sacrificial  food  (x.  14,  4,  5  ;  x.  15,  9).  They  ac- 
cordingly arrive  in  thousands,  borne  on  the  same  car  with  Indra 
and  the  other  gods,  and  range  themselves  in  order  on  the  sacrificial 
ground  (x.  15,  10,  II).470  "Wonderful  powers  are  ascribed  to  them, 
as  in  Agni  is  prayed  (A.V.  xviii.  2,  28),  to  blow  away  the  evil  spirits 
who  intrude  into  their  hallowed  society  in  the  guise  of  friends.  In 
K.Y.  x.  68,  11,  it  is  said  that  "the  fathers  have  adorned  the  sky 
with  stars,  as  a  dark  horse  with  golden  ornaments,  and  have  placed 
darkness  in  the  night,  and  light  in  the  day"  (abhi  iydvaih  na  Jcrisane- 
bhir  asvam  nakshatrebhih  pitaro  dydm  apimsan). 

"With 'these  ideas  compare  those  entertained  »by  the  Romans  about 
the  Manes  (see  Smith's  Dictionary  of  Greek  and  Roman  Biography 
and  Mythology,  s.v.},  and  the  opinions  of  the  unreformed  Christian 
Churches  about  the  powers  and  prerogatives  of  the  saints. 

The  following  texts  refer  indistinctly  to  some  punishment  (whether 
annihilation  or  some  penal  infliction)  of  the  wicked  : 

R.Y.  iv.  ,5,  5  :   Abhrdtaro  na  yoshano  vyantah  patiripo  na  janayo 

durevdh  \  pdpdsah  santo  anritdh  asatydh  idam  padam  ajanata  gabhlram  \ 

• 

470  Compare,  on  the  offerings  to  tlie  Pitris,  Colebrooke's  Essay  on  the  Religious 
Ceremonies  of  the  Hindus.  Mis.  Essays,  i.  180  ff. 


312     FURTHER  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  PARADISE,  ETC. 

"  This  deep  abyss  has  been  produced  (for  those  who),  being  sinners, 
false,  untrue,  go  about  like  women  without  brothers,  like  wicked 
females  hostile  to  their  husbands." 

R..V.  vii.  104,  3  :  Indrdsomd  dushkrito  vavre  antar  andrambhane 
tamasi  pravidhyatam  \  yathd  ndtah  punar  ekaschanodayad  ityddi  \  17. 
Pra  yd  jigdti  khargaleva  naktam  upa  dr-uhd  tanvam  guhamdnd  vavrdn 
anantdn  ava  sd  padlshta  ityddi  \  "  In^dra  and  Soma,  dash  those  mali- 
cious (Eakshases)  into  the  abyss,  into  bottomless  darkness,  so  that  not 
even  one  of  them  may  get  out,"  etc.  17.  "May  that  injurious  Rak- 
shasi,  who  goes  about  at  night  like  an  owl,  concealing  herself,  fall 
into  the  bottomless  abysses." 

But  these  last  texts  form  part  of  a  hymn  which  refers  to  evil  spirits. 

R.V.  ix.  73,  8 :  Pidvdn  sa  visvd  Ihuvand  ''ITii  pasyati  avajushtdn 
vidhyati  karte  avratdn  \  "  Knowing,  he  (Soma)  beholds  all  worlds  ; 
he  hurls  the  hated  and  irreligious  into  the  abyss  "  (karte}. 

In  x.  152,  4,  Indra  is  prayed  to  consign  to  the  lower  darkness  the 
man  who  injures  his  worshipper  (yo  asmdn  abhi  ddsati  adharam 
gamayd  tamah:  compare  A.V.  i.  21,  2);  and  in  A.V.  viii.  2,  24,  the 
nethermost  darkness  is  mentioned  (na  vat  tatra  mriyante  no  yanti 
adhamam  tamah},  "  They  do  not  die  there,  nor  go  to  the  nethermost 
darkness."  See  also  A.v.  ix.  2,  4,  9,  10,  and  17 ;  x.  3,  9  ;  xii.  3,  49 ; 
xiii.  1,  32,  where  similar  phrases  occur  (associated  in  one  place,  x.  3,  9, 
with  asurttam,  rajas,  the  distant  (?)  atmosphere) ;  and  R.V.  x.  103,  12, 
and  A.V.  xviii.  3,  3,  where  tbo  expression  andham  tamas,  "  blind  dark- 
ness," is  found.471  But  it  is  not  clear  that  in  these  passages  the  words 
denote  a  place  of  punishment.  In  A.Y.  v.  30,  11,  it  is  said  to  a  sick 
man:  udehi  mrityor  gamlhlrdt  krishndch  chit  tamasas  pari  \  ''Rise  up 
from  deep  death,  even*  from  the  black  darkness."  In  A.Y.  viii.  1,  10, 
tamas  is  used  by  itself,  apparently  for  the  state  of  the  dead ;  and  in 
A.Y.  viii.  2,  2,  "the  light  of  the  living"  (jivatdm  jyotih}  is  mentioned. 
In  the  preceding  verse,  1,  rajas  and  tamas  are  joined  :  "do  not  depart 
to  ,the  atmosphere  and  darkness  "  (rajas  tamo  mopagdh  md  pra  mesh- 
thdh}.  In  A.Y,  xii.  4,  36,  however,  the  adjective  form  of  the  ordinary 
word  for  hell  (ndraka  loka)  occurs ;  and  that  region  is  threatened  as 
the  future  abode  of  the  man  whose  offence  is  there  specified  (athdhur 
ndrakam  lokam  nirundhdnasya  ydchitdm}. 

471  Manu,  viii.  94,  connects  andham  tamas  with  hell,  saying  that  a  lying  witness 
goes  to  hell  in  "blind  darkness." 


FURTHER  QUOTATIONS  ON  THE  SUBJECT  OF  PARADISE,  ETC.     313 

In  the  following  passages  of  the  Mahabharata  (xii.  6969  f.)  hell  and 
darkness  (tamas)  are  identified  :  Anritam  tamaso  rupam  tamasd  nlyate 
hy  adhah  \  tamo-grastdh  na  pasyanti  prakdsam  tamasd  vritdh  \  6970. 
Svargah prakdsah  ity  dhur  narakam  tamah  eva  cha  \  "Falsehood  is  the 
embodiment  of  darkness  (tamas] :  by  darkness  a  man  is  carried  down- 
wards. Those  who  are  seized  by  darkness,  being  enveloped  in  dark- 
ness, do  not  see  the  light.  Hqaven  they  say  is  light  (prakasa),  and 
hell  is  darkness  (tamas}."  472 

In  one  of  the  passages  which  have  been  quoted  above  (x.  16,  4)  the 
"  unborn  part "  of  man  is  spoken  of  as  being  conveyed  by  Agni  to 
"  the  world  of  the  righteous."  It  will  be  observed  that  the  word  here 
employed  is  different  from  dtman,  the  term  which  at  a  later  period  was 
invariably  used  to  denote  the  immaterial  soul ;  and  that  this  same 
word  dtman  occurs  in  the  preceding  verse  in  the  sense  of  breath,  as  we 
must  infer  from  the  fact  of  its  being  bidden  to  mingle  with  the  wind, 
the  element  to  which  it  is  akin.  In  some  other  passages  of  the  Big- 
veda  we  find  the  word  manas  employed  for  the  soul,  or  the  living 
principle  which  exists  after  death.  Thus  in  x.  58,  1,  it  is  said:  Yat 
te  Yamam  Vaivasvatam  mano  jdgdma  durakam  \  tat  te  dvarttaydmasi 
iha  Icshaydya  jlvase  \  "Thy  soul,  which  has  gone  afar  to  Yama  Vaivas- 
vata,  we  bring  back  hither  to  dwell  and  to  live."  In  the  verses  which 
follow,  the  soul  is  said  to  be  brought  back  from  a  great  many  other 
places,  the  heaven,  the  earth,  the  four  quarters  of  the  sky,  the  ocean, 
the  waters,  the  planets,  the  sun,  the  dawn,  the  past,  the  future,  etc. 
And  again  in  x.  60,  10,  we  find  the  same  word  employed:  Yamdd 
aham  Vaivasvattit  Subandhor  manah  dbharam  \  jlvdtave  na  mrityave  atho 
arishtatdtayd  \  "  I  have  brought  the  soul  of  Subandhu  that  it  may  live 
and  not  die,  but  be  secure."  Compare  A.V.  v.  3,  6,  13 ;  vi.  53,  2 ; 
viii.  1,  3;  viii.  2,  3;  and  Vaj.  Sanh.  iii.  53-56.  Atman  is,  however, 
used  in  some  parts  of  the  Big-veda  for  the  animating  principle,  as 
where  the  sun  is  called  the  soul  of  all  things  moving  and  stationary 
(i.  115,  1),  or  where  Soma  is  called  the  soul  of  sacrifice  (ix.  2,  10; 
ix.  6,  8),  and  of  Inira  (ix.  85,  3). 

472  Compare  Vishnu  Parana,  ii.*6,  40  :  "  Heaven  is  that  which  delights  the  mind ; 
hell  is  that  which  gives  it  pain  ;  hence4  vice  is  called  hell ;  virtue  is  called  heaven  " 
(manah-priti-karah  svargo  narakas  tad-viparyayah  \  naraka-svarga-sanjne  vai  papa- 
punye  dvijottama). 


314  QUOTATIONS  FROM  LATER  WORKS 

(6)  Quotations  from  later  works  regarding  a  future  existence, 

I  shall  now  adduce  some  passages  from  other  Indian  works  of  a 
later  date,  such  as  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  the  epic  poems,  and  the 
Puranas,  to  show  how  far  the  opinions  which  their  authors  entertained 
coincide  with  those  representations  of  a-  future  life  which  I  have  ex- 
tracted from  the  Rig-,  Yajur-,  and  Atfrarva-vedas. 

In  the  9th  vol.  of  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society 
(pp.  237  ff.)  Professor  Weber  has  communicated  a  legend  from  the 
S'atapatha  Brahmana,  on  penal  retribution  after  death,  to  which  he  has 
prefixed  some  interesting  remarks  on  the  history  of  Indian  opinion 
regarding  the  vanity  of  personal  existence,  and  the  desire  to  escape 
from  the  perpetual  cycle  of  births  to  which  that  opinion  conducts. 
He  remarks  that,  owing  to  the  fragmentary  nature  of  the  surviving 
documents  of  Indian  literature,  we  are  not  yet  in  a  position  to  trace 
with  any  distinctness  the  rise  and  growth  of  the  doctrine  of  transmi- 
gration ;  though  he  considers  it  to  admit  of  no  doubt  that  the  tenet  in 
question  was  gradually  developed  in  India  itself,  and  not  introduced  from 
any  foreign  country.  (See  Professor  Benfey's  remarks  on  this  subject 
in  his  Orient  und  Occident,  vol.  iii.  pp.  169  f.)  In  the  hymns  of  the 
Rig-veda,  Prof.  "Weber  goes  on  to  observe,  there  is  no  trace  discoverable 
of  the  metempsychosis,  or  of  any  disgust  with  personal  existence.  On 
the  contrary,  they  manifest  a  cheerful  enjoyment  of  life,  and  the  most 
earnest  desire  for  its  prolongation  in  this  world,  as  well  as  its  con- 
tinuation in  the  next.  "  So  too,"  Professor  Weber  proceeds,  "  in  the 
Brahmanas,  immortality,  or  at  least  longevity,  is  promised  to  those 
who  rightly  understand  and  practise  the  rites  of  sacrifice,  while  those 
who  are  deficient  in 'this  respect  depart  before  their  natural  term  of 
life  (pur a  ha  dyusha/i)  ™  to  the  next  world,  where  they  are  weighed 
in  a  balance  (xi.  2,  7,  33) 474  and  receive  good  or  evil  according  to 

473  Compare  R.V.  x.  37,  6  :  bhadram  fivanto  jaranam  asrmahi ;  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  8, 
3,<6  :  sarvam  ayur  eti  a  ha  epajarayai  jlvati;  S'atap.  Br.  x.  4,  3,  1,  where  the  ex- 
pression purajarasah  is  found ;  as  it  is  also  in  R.V.  viii.  56f,  20,  and  A.V.  v.  30,  17  ; 
x.  2,  30  ;  xi.  3,  56.   Pura  ha*  ayusho  mriyate  occurs  in  S'atap.  Br.  ii.  1,  4,  9  :  na 
pura  ayushah  svakamt  preyat  in  x.  2,  6,  7  ;  and  sarvam  ayur  eti  in  x.  2,  6,  19.    See 
also  Taitt.  Sanh.  iii.  2,  1,  2.      Compare  Psalm  Iv.  24  :  "  Bloody  and  deceitful  men 
shall  not  live  out  half  their  days  ;  "  Psalm  cii.  25,  and  Jeremiah  xvii.  11. 

474  The  passage  (xi.  2,  7,  33)  to  which  Weher  has  referred  runs  as  follows  :  Atha 
ha  esha  eva  tula  yad  dakshino  vedyantah  \  sa  yat  sadhu  karoti  tad  antarvedi  atha 


REGARDING  A  FUTURE  EXISTENCE.  315 

their  deeds.  The  more  sacrifices  any  one  has  offered,  the  more  ethereal 
is  the  body  he  obtains,  or,  as  the  Brahraana  expresses  it  (x.  1,  5,  4),4" 
the  more  rarely  does  he  need  to  eat.  In  other  passages,  again  (iv. 
6,  1,  1  :  xi.  1,  8,  6;  xii.  8,  3,  31),476  it  is  promised  as  the  highest 
reward,  that  the  pious  man  shall  be  born  in  the  next  world  with  his 
entire  body  (sarvatanur  eva'sangali).  Here  the  high  estimation  of 

» 
• 

yad  asadhu  tad  bahirvedi  tasmad  dakshinam  vedyantam  adhisprisya  iva  aslta  \  tula- 
yam  ha  vai  amushmin  loke  adadhati  \  yatarad  yamsyati  tad  anveshyati  yadi  sadhu  va 
asadhu  va  iti  \  atha  yah  evam  vcda  asmin  ha  eva  loke  tulam  arohati  \  ati  amushmin  loke 
tuladhanam  muchyate  sadhukritya  ha  eva  asya  yachhati  na  papakritya  \  "  For  in 
the  next  world  they  place  (his  good  and  evil  deeds)  in  a  halance.  Whichever  of 
the  two  shall  outweigh  (the  other),  that  he  shall  follow,  whether  it  be  good  or  evil. 
Now,  whosoever  knows  this  places  himself  in  the  balance  in  this  world,  and  is  freed 
from  being  weighed  in  the  next  world ;  it  is  by  good  deeds  and  not  by  bad  that  (his 
scale)  outweighs." 

475  x.  1,  5,  4  :  Atha  ato  yajnaviryanam  eva  \  sayam  pratar  ha  vai  amushmin  loke 
agnihotra-hud  asnati  tavatl  ha  tasmin  yajne  urg  ardhamase  ardhamase  dasapurna- 
masa-yaji  chaturshu  chaturshu  maseshu  chaturmasya-yaj~i  shatsu  shatsu  pasubandha~ 
yaji  samvatsare  saihvatsare  somayajt  sate  sate  samvatsareshu  agnichit  kamam  asnati 
kamam  na  \  tad  ha  etad  yavat  s'atam  samvatsaras  tavad  amritam  anantam  aparyan- 
tam  |  sa  yo  ha  etad  evam  veda  evam  ha  eva  asya  etad  amritam  anantam  aparyantam 
bhavati  \  tasya  yad  api  ishikaya  iva  upahanyat  tad  eva  asya  amritam  anantam 
aparyantam  bhavati  \  "  Then  as  regards  the  powers  of  the  sacrifices.    In  the  next 
world  the  offerer  of  an  Agnihotra  eats  morning  and  evening.     So  much  nourishment 
resides  in  'that  sacrifice.     The  performer  of  the  Dars'apurnamasa  sacrifice  eats  every 
fortnight,  the  performer  of  the  Chaturmasya  every  four  months,  the  performer  of  the 
Pab'ubandha  every  six  months,  the  offerer  of  the  Soma  every  year,  whilst  the  kindler 
of  fire  eats  every  hundred  years,  or  abstains  at  his  pleasure.    This  means,  that  during 
this  period  of  a  hundred  years  he  enjoys  an  immortal,  unending,  and  unlimited  life. 
He  who  so  knows  this  enjoys  in  the  same  way  this  immortal,  unending,  and  un- 
limited existence.     Whatever  part  of  him  is  separated,  even  as  if  by  a  straw,  be- 
comes immortal,  unending,  and  unlimited." 

476  iv.  6,  1,  1  :  Sa  ha  sarvatanur  eva  yajamano  'mushmin  loke  s&mbhavati  \  "  This 
sacrificer  is  born  with  his  whole  body  (sarvatanuh]  in  the  next  world."    xi.  1,  8,  6  : 
Esha  ha  vai  yajamanasya  amushmin  loke  atma  bhavati  yad  yajnah  \  sa  ha  sarvatanur 
)va  yajamano  amushnin  loke  sambhavati  yah  ev»m  vidvan  niskrltya  yajate  \  "  This 
sacrifice  becomes  in  the  next  world  the  soul  of  the  sacrificer.  The  sacrificer  who,  know- 
ing this,  sacrifices  with  an  expiation,  is  born  with  his  whole  body  in  the  next  world." 
xii.  8,  3,  31 :  Pra  iva  vai  esha  lokams  cha  devatas  cha  visati  yah  sautramanya 'tbhi- 
shichyate  \  tad  etad  avqntaram  atmanam  upahvayate  tatha  kritsnah  eva  sarvatanuh 
sangah  sambhavati  \  "  He  who  is  consecrated  by  th«  Sautramam  enters  the  worlds, 
and  among  the  gods.    He  then  ....  and  is  born  entire,  with  his  whole  body  and 
limbs."     In  the  A.V.  xi.  3,  32,  ^nd  49,  it  is  said  :  Esha  vai  odanah  sarvangah  sarva- 
paruh  sarvatanuh  \  sarvangah  eva  sarvaparuh  sarvatanuh  sambhavati  yah  evam  veda  \ 
"  This  odana  (boiled  rice)  is  complete  in  its  limbs,  joints,  and  body.     He  who  knows 
this  is  born  complete  in  limbs,  joints,  and  body." 


316  QUOTATIONS  FROM  LATER  WORKS 

individual  existence  culminates-,  and  a  purely  personal  immortality  is 
involved.  It  is  evidently  in  connection  with  this  that  the  loss  of  a 
dead  man's  bones  is  regarded  by  his  friends  as  disgraceful,  as  the 
severest  punishment  of  arrogance  (xi.  6,  3,  11;  xiv.  6,  9,  28)  ;"477 
since,  according  to  the  custom  prescribed  by  the  Sutras,  the  bones 
should  be  collected  after  cremation. 

[The  following  passage  from  the  same  work  (x.  4,  3,  9,)  is  not  incon- 
sistent with  the  above  view.  According  to  the  story,  the  gods  become 
immortal  without  parting  with  their  bodies ;  and  although  men  were 
not  to  enjoy  immortality  without  "  shuffling  off  their  mortal  coil,"  a 
subsequent  resumption  of  their  bodies  in  a  glorified  state  is  not  thereby 
excluded  :  9.  Sa  mrityur  devtin  air  avid  "  AtTia  eva  sarve  manushydh 
amritdh  bhavishyanti  atha  ko  mahyam  bhdgo  bhavishyati"  iti  \  te  ha 
uchur  "  na  atoh  'par  ah  kaschana  sdha  sarlrena  amrito  'sad  yadd  eva 
tvam  etam  bhdgam  hardsai  \  atha  vydvritya  sarlrena  amrito  'sad  vidyayd 
vd  karmand  vd"  iti  \  yad  vai  tad  abruvan  "  vidyaya  vd  karmand  vd  " 
iti  \  eshd  ha  eva  sd  vidyd  yad  Agnir  etad  u  ha  eva  tat  karma  yad  Agnih  \ 
10.  Te  ye  evafh  etad  vidur  ye  vd  etat  karma  kurvate  mritvd  punah  sam- 
bhavanti  \  te  sambhavantah  eva  amritatvam  abhisambhavanti  \  atha  ye 
evam  na  vidur  ye  vd  etat  karma  na  kurvate  mritvd  punah  sambhavanti  te 
etasya  eva  annam  punah  punar  bhavanti  \ 

"  Death  said  to  the  gods  (who  had  become  immortal  by  performing 
certain  rites),  'in  the  very  same  way  all  men  (also)  shall  become 
immortal ;  then  what  portion  will  remain  for  me  ? '  The  gods  replied, 


477  xi.  6,  3,  11 :  Sa  ha  uvacha  "  anatiprasnyam  ma  devatam  atyaprakshlh  pura- 
itithyai  marishyasi  na  te  asthlni  chana  grihan  prapsyanti"  iti  \  s'a.  ha  tathaiva 
mamara  \  tasya  ha  apy  anycd  manyamanah  parimoshino  asthlny  apajahrun  \  tasmad 
na  upavadi  syat  \  "  Do  not  scrutinize  too  far  the  deity  which  ought  not  to  be  too  far 
scrutinized.  Thou  shalt  die  before  such  a  time ;  not  even  thy  bones  shall  reach  thy 
home.  So  he  died ;  and  robbers  carried  off  his  bones,  taking  them  for  something 
else.  Wherefore  let  no  man  be  contentious."  xiv.  6,  9,  28  (=Brihad  Aranyaka 
Upanishad,  iii.  9,  26  ;  p.  210  f.  of  Roer's  English  translation)  :  Tarn  tva  aupanisha- 
dani*purusham  prichhami  tarn  ched  me  na  vivakshyasi  murdha  te  vipatishyati  "  iti  ]\ 
tain  ha  S'akalyo  na  mene  \  tasya  ha  murdha  vipapata  \  tasya*.  ha  apy  anyad  manya- 
manah parimoshino  asthlny  apdjahruh  \  "  I  ask  thee  regarding  this  Purusha  of  the 
Upanishads.  If  thou  shalt  not  explain  him  to  me,  |;hy  head  shall  fall  off.  S'akalya 
did  not  understand  this  Purusha.  So  his  head  fell  off ;  and  robbers  carried  off  his 
bones,  taking  them  for  something  else."  (Coirpare  1  Kings  xiii.  22,  and  Jeremiah 
viii.  1,  2).  See  also  the  story  of  Atyamhas  Aruni  and  Plaksha  Dayyampati  in  Taitt. 
Br.  iii.  10,  9,  3-5. 


REGARDING  A  FUTURE  EXISTENCE.  317 

'  Henceforward  no  other  being  shall  become  immortal  with  his  body, 
when  thou  shalt  have  seized  that  part  (the  body).473  Now,  every  one 
who  is  to  become  immortal  through  knowledge,  or  by  work,  shall 
become  immortal  after  parting  with  his  body.'  This  which  they  said, 
'  by  .knowledge  or  by  work,'  means  that  knowledge  which  is  Agni,  that 
work  which  is  Agni.  10.  Those  who  so  know  this,  or  who  perform 
this  rite,  are  born  again  aftei*  death ;  and  by  being  so  born,  they 
attain  immortality.  Whilst  those  who  do  not  so  know,  or  who  do  not 
perform  this  rite,  are  indeed  born  again  after  death,  but  become  again 
and  again  his  (death's)  food."  See  the  4th  vol.  of  this  "Work,  pp. 
48  ff.,  where  this  passage  is  given  with  its  context.] 

Professor  Weber  proceeds  :  "  But  whereas,  in  the  oldest  times,  im- 
mortality in  the  abodes  of  the  blessed,  where  milk  and  honey  flow 
(xi.  5,  6,  4) 479  is  regarded  as  the  reward  of  virtue  or  wisdom,  whilst 
the  sinner  or  the  fool  is,  after  a  short  life,  doomed  to  the  annihilation 
of  his  personal  existence,  the  doctrine  of  the  Brahmanas  is  that  after 
death  all  are  born  again  in  the  next  world,  where  they  are  recompensed 
according  to  their  deeds,  the  good  being  rewarded,  and  the  wicked 
punished  (vi.  2,  2,  27 ;  x.  6,  3,  1 ;  xi.  7,  2,  23)."  48° 

478  It  appears,  however,  from  the  Taitt.  S.  vi.  (p.  67«  of  the  Indian  Office  MS.), 
that  men  were  also  conceived  of  as  getting  to  heaven  without  dying.     Brahmavadino 
vadanti  "  kim  tad  yajne  yajamanah  kurute  yenajlvan  suvargam  lokam  eti"  iti  \  jiva- 
graho  vai  esha  yad  addbhyo  'nabhishutasya  grihnati  \jlvantam  eva  enam  survargam 
lokam  gamayati  \   "  Men  versed  in  sacred  science  say  '  What  does  the   sacrificer 
perform  in  the  sacrifice  by  which  he  ascends  to  heaven  alive  ? '     This  adubhya 
libation  is  an  offering  of  the  living  [Soma,  i.e.  of  the  plant  uncrushed,  according  to 
Bb'htlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.  jlvagralia] ;  (the  priest)  offers  this  without  pouring  it  out; 
and  conveys  tile  worshipper  alive  to  heaven." 

479  xi.  if,  6,  3  f.  (See  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  where  this  passage  is  cited  in  the 

original  with  its  context)  :  '«  Study  of  the  Vedas  is  the  Brahma-sacrifice The 

man  who,  knowing  this,  daily  practises  the  study  of  the  Vedas,  conquers  thrice  as 
vast  a  region— and  that,  too,  undecaying— as  the  region  which  he  conquers  who 
bestows  this  whole  earth  filled  with  wealth.     "Wherefore  study  of  the  Vedas  is  to  be 
practised.    4.  Verses  of  the  Rik.  are  oblations  of  milk  to  the  gods.    He  who,  knowing 
this,  daily  studies  the  Rig-veda,  does  in  fact  satisfy  the  gods  with  oblations  of  milk ; 
and  they,  when  satisfied,  satisfy  him  with  prosperity,  with  breath,  with  generative 
power,  with  cqmpleteness  in  his  being,  with  all  excellent  possessions.      (Compare 
S'atap.  Br.  xi.  5,  7,  6,  and  A.V.  iv.  34,  6,  7.) 

480  vi.  2,  2,  27  :   Tasmad  ahuh  kritam  lokam  purusho  'bhi  jayate  \  "  Hence  they 
say  that  a  man  is  born  into  the  world  which  he  has  made.        x.  6,  3,  1  :  Atha 
khalu  kratumayo  'yam  purushah  \  sa  yavatkratur  ayam  asmal  lokfit  praiti  evain- 
kratur  ha  amum  lokam  pretya  abhisambhavati  \  "  Now  truly  this  man  is  composed  of 


318  QUOTATIONS  FROM  LATER  WORKS 

[The  Satapatha  Brahmana,  h6wever,  also  expresses  the  conception  of 
a  higher  state  than  that  of  desire  and  gratification,  in  a  passage  (x.  5,  4, 
15)  where  it  is  said :  15.  So  'sya  esha  sarvasya  antam  eva  dtmd  \  sa  esha 
sarvdsdm  apdm  madhye  \  sa  esha  sarvaih  kdmaih  sampannah  \  dpo  vat  sarve 
kdmdh  |  sa  esha  akdmah  sarvakdmo  na  hy  etam  kasyachana  kdmah\  16. 
Tad  esha  Moko  bhavati  "  vidyayd  tad  droh'anti  yatra  kdmdh  pardgatdh  \ 
na  tatra  dakshindh  yanti  ndvidvdmsas  lapasvinah"  iti  \  na  ha  eva  tarn 
lokam  dakshindbhir  na  tapasd  'nevamvid  asnute  \  evammddm  ha  eva  sa 
lokah  | 

"  This  son!  is  the  end  of  all  this.  It  abides  in  the  midst  of  all 
the  waters.  It  is  supplied  with  all  objects  of  desire.  For  the  waters 
are  all  the  objects  of  desire/81  This  (soul)  is  free  from  desire,  and 
(yet)  possesses  all  the  objects  of  desire,  for  it  desires  nothing.  15.  On 
this  subject  there  is  this  verse :  '  By  knowledge  men  ascend  to  that 
condition  in  which  desires  have  passed  away.  Thither  gifts  do  not 
reach,  nor  austere  devotees  who  are  destitute  of  knowledge.'482  For  a 
person  who  does  not  possess  this  knowledge  does  not  attain  that  world 
by  gifts  or  by  rigorous  abstraction.  It  pertains  only  to  those  who 
have  such  knowledge."]  *83 

sacrifice.  So  many  sacrifices  as  he  has  performed  when  he  departs  from  this  world, 
with  so  many  is  he  born  in  the  other  world  after  his  death." 

481  Compare  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  12,  2,  6  :  Apsu  vai  sarve  kamah  s'ritah  \  "In  the 
waters  all  objects  of  desire  are  contained." 

433  This  verse  is  quoted  in  S'ankaia's  Commentary  on  the  Brahma  Sutras,  pp.  911 
and  952,  of  the  edit,  in  Bibl.  Ind. 

483  In  another  passage  a  curious  contrast  is  drawn  between  two  different  kinds  of 
sacrificers,  the  atmayajin  and  the  devayajin,  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  2,  6,  13  :  atmayajl 
sreyan  \  devayajl  ity  atmayajl  iti  ha  bruyat  \  sa  ha  vai  atmayajl  yo  tteda  "  idam  me 
anena  angam  saniskriyate  i&am  me  anena  angam  upadKiyate"  iti  \  sa  y  at  ha'  his  tvacho 
nirmuchyeta  evam  asmad  martyat  sarlrat  papmano  nirmuchyate  sa  rinmayo  yajur- 
mayah  samamayah  ahutimayah  svargam  lokam  abhi  sambhavati  \  atha  ha  sa  devayajt 
yo  veda  devan  eva  aham  idam  yaje  deran  samarpayami  iti  sa  yatha  sreyase  paplyan 
balim  hared  vaisyo  va  rajne  balim  hared  evam  sa  sa  ha  na  tavantam  lokam  jayali 
yavantam  itarah  \  "  He  who  sacrifices  to  himself  is  superior.  A  man  should  say, 
'  There  is  a  worshipper  who  sacrifices  to  the  gods,'  and  '  another  who  sacrifices  to 
himself.'  He  who  understands  that  by  such  and  such  [a « rite]  such  and  such  a 
one  of  his  members  is  rectified/and  that  by  such  and  such  another  rite  such  and  such 
another  of  his  members  is  restored, — he  is  the  persona  who  sacrifices  to  himself ;  he  is 
freed  from  this  mortal  body,  from  sin  (or  misery),  as  a  serpent  is  freed  from  its  worn- 
out  skin,  and  acquiring  the  nature  of  the  Riks  Yajush,  and  Saman,  and  of  Sacrifice, 
he  attains  to  heaven.  2.  On  the  other  hand,  he  who  understands  that  with  such  and 
such  an  oblation  he  worships  the  gods,  and  offers  it  up  to  them,  is  like  an  inferior 


REGARDING  A  FUTURE  EXISTENCE.  319 

Professor  Weber  adds  in  a  note  :  "According  to  a  very  ancient  con- 
ception, the  soul,  after  being  breathed  forth  from  the  body,  ascends  to 
the  abodes  of  the  blessed  on  the  wings  of  the  air,  of  the  wind  (Ep/j,elas 
ijrt^o7ro/i7ro?),484  having  itself  been  changed  into  an  aerial  form.  With 
this  is  connected  the  later  idea  of  the  resolution  of  the  senses  of  the 
dying  into  fire,  sun,  moon,  wind,  and  the  regions  of  the  sky 485  (x.  3,  3, 
8 ;  xiv.  6,  2,  13),  .and  the  still  more  modern  and  systematic  notion  of 
their  being  resolved  into  the  five  elements.  In  one  place  (i.  9,  3, 
10)486 1  find  the  idea  that  the  rays  of  the  sun  are  themselves  the  pious 

who  presents  tribute  to  a  superior,  or  as  a  Vais'ya  brings  tribute  to  a  king ;  and  he 
does  not  conquer  for  himself  so  great  a  world  as  the  other  does."  Professor  Aufrecht 
inclines  to  think  that  there  is  no  such  difference  between  the  sense  of  atmayajin  here 
and  in  Manu,  xii.  91,  as  is  indicated  in  the  Lexicon  of  Messrs.  Bohtlingk  and  Roth, 
and  that  in  the  passage  before  us  atman  must  be  taken  in  the  Vedantic  sense,  and 
the  compound  explained  to  mean  "he  who  sacrifices  in  himself,  that  is,  in  his  own 
individuality,  as  an  integral  part  of  the  universal  soul,"  quoting  Kulluka  on  Manu, 
xii.  91,  in  proof  of  this  sense.  He  also  refers  to  S'atap.  Br.  x.  3,  2,  13  (him 
chhandah  ka  devata  unatiriktani  iti  \  nyunakshara  chhandah  apo  devata  unatiri- 
ktani \  sa  esha  atmavidya  eva  \  etanmayff  ha  etah  devatah  etam  atmanam  abhisam- 
bhavati),  which  I  translate:  "  What  the  metre,  what  deity  are  the  things  which  are 
defective  or  superfluous  ?  The  nyunakshara  (metre  with  deficient  syllables)  is  the 
metre ;  the  waters  are  the  deity  representing  the  things  which  are  defective  or  super- 
fluous. This  is  the  knowledge  of  soul.  He  who  is  composed  of  this  attains  to  these 
deities,  to  this  soul."  Here  the  knowledge  of  soul  in  the  Vedantic  sense  may 
be  referred  to.  But  in  the  previous  passage  the  atmayajin  is  represented,  not  as 
attaining  to  soul,  but  to  heaven,  a  destination  which  he  who  has  a  knowledge  of  soul 
in  the  Vedantic  sense  no  longer  desires. 

481  Compare  A.V.  xviii.  2,  21  f.,  quoted  above.* 

485  x.  3,  3,  8 :  Sa  yada  evamvid  asmal  lokat  praiti  vacha  eva  Agnim  apyeti  chakshusha 
Adityam  manasa  Chandram  srotrena  Dis'ah  pranena  Vayum  \  sa  etanmayah  eva 
bhutva  etdsam  devatanam  yam  yam  kamayate  sa  bhutva  ilayati  \  "  Whoever  departs 
from  this  w^rld  knowing  this  goes  with  his  voice  to  fire  (Agni),  with  lys  eye  to  the  sun 
(Aditya  ;  compare  R.V.  x.  16,  3,  quoted  above),  with  his  mind  (manas)  to  the  moon, 
with  his  ear  to  the  regions,  with  his  breath  (prana")  to  the  wind  (Vayu ;  compare 
R.V.  x.  16,  3).  Having  attained  the  nature  of  these,  and  become  any  one  of  these 
deities  that  he  desires,  he  rests."  xiv.  6,  2, 13  ( =Brih.  Arany.  Up.  p.  542  f.) :  Yatra 
asya  purushasya  mritasya  agnim  vag  apyeti  vatam  pranas  chakshur  adityam  manas' 
chandram  disah  srotram  prithivlm  sariram  akasam  atma  oshadhir  lomani  vanaspatln 
kesah  apsu  lohitam  cha  retas  cha  nidhiyate  kva  ayam  tada  purusho  bhavati  \  "  Wnen 
the  voice  of  the  departed  soul  goes  to  fire,  his  breath  ^o  the  wind,  his  eye  to  the  sun, 
his  mind  to  the  moon,  his  hearing  to  the  regions,  his  body  to  the  earth,  his  soul  to 
the  ffither,  the  hairs  of  his  body  to  the  plants,  the  hairs  of  his  head  to  the  trees,  his 
blood  and  his  seminal  fluid  to  the  waters, — where  then  is  this  spirit  ?" 

486  i.  9,  3,  10 :  Yah  esha  tapati  tas'ya  ye  rasmayas  te  sukritah  \  at  ha  yat  param 
bhah  Prajapatir  va  svargo  va  lokah  \  "  The  rays  of  him  who  shines  (the  sun)  are  the 
pious.  The  light  which  is  above  is  Prajapati,  or  the  heavenly  world." 


320  QUOTATIONS  FROM  LATER  WORKS 

(sukritas) ;  and  in  another  (vi.  5,  4,  8) 187  the  conception  that  the  stars 
are  the  lights  of  the  righteous  who  go  to  heaven.  "With  this  the 
similar  statement  in  the  Indralokagamana  may  be  compared." 

The  following  are  some  other  passages  of  the  Brahmanas  (not  cited 
by  Professor  "Weber)  regarding  future  rewards.  In  the  S'atap.  Br.  xi. 
6,  2,  2,  3,  it  is  said :  "  He  who  sacrifices  thus  obtains  perpetual  pros- 
perity and  renown,  and  conquers  for-himself  an  union488  with  these 
two  gods  (Aditya  and  Agni},  and  an  abode  in  the  same  sphere."  (See 
the  original  passages  with  the  context  in  the  1st  vol.  of  *his  "Work, 
pp.  426  ff.)  In  the  same  work  (ii.  6,  4,  8)  it  is  said  that  those  who 
offer  particular  sacrifices  become  Agni,  Yaruna,  or  Indra,  and  attain  to 
union,  and  to  the  same  spheres,  with  those  gods  respectively  (sa  yad 
vaisvadevena  yajate  Agnir  eva  tarhi  bhavaty  Agner  eva  sayujyam  salok- 
atdm  jayati  \  atha  yad  Varunapraghasair  yajate  Varunah  eva  tarhi 
lhavati  ityadi}.  And  in  the  same  way  the  Taittiriya  Brahmana,  iii. 
10, 11,  6  f.,  states  that  the  possessors  of  particular  kinds  of  knowledge 
attain  to  union  with  Aditya  (the  Sun),  and  to  union,  and  to  the  same 
spheres,  with  Agni,  with  Yayu,  with  Indra,  with  Brihaspati,  with 
Prajapati,  and  with  Brahma.  In  the  same  work,  iii.  10,  9,  11,  men- 
tion is  made  of  a  certain  sage  who,  through  his  knowledge,  became  a 
golden  swan,  went  to  heaven,  and  attained  to  union  with  the  sun 
(Ahlno  ha  Asvatthyah  sdvitram  vidanchakara  \  11.  Sa  ha  hamso  hiran- 
mayo  bhutva  svargam  lokam  iydya  adityasya  sayujyam}.  The  S'atap. 

487  vi.  5,  4,  8  :   Ye  hi  janah  punyakritah  svargam  lokam  yanti  tesham  etani  jyo- 
tlmshi  |  "  These  (the  stars)  are  the  lights  of  the  practisers  of  holy  acts  who  go  to 
heaven."  The  passage  of  the  Indralokagamana  (Mbh.  iii.  1745  ff.),  referred  to  by  Pro- 
fessor Weber,  i$  as  follows :  Na  tatra  suryah  somo  va  dyotate  nacha  pavakah  \  1746. 
Svayaiva  prabhaya  tatraf  dyotante  punyalabdhaya  \   iararupani  yanlha  drisyante 
dyutimanti  vai  \  1747.  D~>pavad  v iprakrishtatvat  tanuni  sumahanty  api  \  tani  tatra 
prabhasvanti  rvpavunti  cha  Panduvah  \  1748.  Dadarsa  sveshu  dhishnyeshu  dlpavanti 
svaya  'rchisha   \   tatra  rajarshayah  siddhah  vlrascha   nihatah  yudhi   \   1751.   Ete 
sukritinah  partha  sveshu  dhishnyeshv  avasthitah  \    1752.  Yan  drishtavan  asi  vibho 
iararupani  bhutale  \  "  The  sun  shines  not  there  (in  Indra's  heaven),  nor  the  moon, 
no?  fire.     There  the  righteous  shine  by  their  own  light,  acquired  by  their  own  virtue. 
Arjuna  beheld  there,   shining  in  their  own  spheres,  luminous  and  beautiful,  those 
bright  forms  of  the  stars  which,  when  seen  from  the  earth,  appear  from  distance  to 
be  as  small  as  lamps,  although  they  are  very  vast."-    "  These,"  as  Arjuna's  conductor 
explained  to  him,  "  were  the  righteous  occupying  their  own  spheres,  whom,  when  on 
earth,  he  had  seen  in  the  sky  in  the  form  of  stars." 

488  The  word  saytijya,  "  close  union,"  here  used,  seems  to  prepare  the  way  for  laya 
and  tmtkti,  "dissolution,"  or  "absorption,"  into  the  supreme  spirit. 


REGARDING  A  FUTURE  EXISTENCE.  321 

Br.  xi.  4,  4,  1,  also  speaks  of  union  with  Brahma :  Shad  vai  Brah- 
mano  dvdrah  Agnir  Vdyur  Apai  Chandramdh  Vidyud  Adityah  \  21.  Sa 
yah  upadagdhena  havishd  yajate  Agnind  sa  ha  Brahmano  dvdrena  pra- 
tipadyate  \  so  Agnind  Brahmano  dvdrena  pratipadya  Brahmanah  sdyu- 
jyam  salokatdm  jayati  \  "  There  are  six  doors  to  Brahma,  viz.,  Agni, 
Vayu,  the  Waters,  the  Moon,  Lightning,  the  Sun.  2.  He  who  sacri- 
fices with  a  burnt,  offering,  arrives  by  Agni,  as  the  door  to  Brahma ; 
and  having  so  arrived,  he  attains  to  a  union  with  Brahma,  and 
abides  in  the  same  sphere  with  him."  In  A.Y.  xix.  7,  1,  1,  a  Brahma- 
loka  is  mentioned.  [For  the  Puranic  idea  of  the  world  of  Brahma, 
see  "Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  4to.  ed.,  p.  48,  note  3,  and  p.  213,  note 
3  (or,  for  the  first  of  these  passages,  Professor  Hall's  8vo.  ed.,  vol.  i. 
p.  98),  and  for  the  second,  vol.  ii.  p.  228,  of  the  same  edition.] 

In  the  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  5,  6,  9,  it  is  declared  that  a  man  who  reads 
the  Vedas  in  a  particular  manner  is  "  freed  from  dying  again,  and 
attains  to  a  sameness  of  nature  with  Brahma  (Brahmanah  sdtmatdm). 
Even  if  he  cannot  read  with  much-  power,  let  him  read  one  sentence 
relating  to  the  gods."  (See.  the  original  passage  with  the  context  in 
the  3rd  vol.  of  this  Work,  pp.  18  ff.) 

The  following  curious  passage  is  from  the  Aitareya  Brahman  a, 
iii.  44 :  Sa  vai  esha  na  kaddchana  astam  eti  na  udeti  \  tarn  yad  astam 
eti  iti  manyante  ahnah  eva  tad  antam  itvd  atha  dtmdnam  viparyasyate 
rdtrlm  eva  avastdt  kurute  ahah  parastdt  \  atha  yad  enam  prdtar  udeti  iti 
manyante  rdtrer  eva  tad  antam  itva  atha  dtmdnam  viparyasyate  ahar  eva 
avastdt  kurute  rdtrlm  parastdt  \  sa  vai  esha  na  kaddchana  nimrochati  \ 
no,  ha  vai  kaddchana  nimrochati  etasya  ha  sdyujyam  sarupatdm  salokatdm 
asnute  yah  evam  veda  yah  evam  veda  \  ,  * 

"  The  Sun  neither  ever  sets  or  rises.  "When  people  think  he  sets  he 
(only)  turns  himself  round,  after  reaching  the  end  of  the  day,  and 
makes  night  below  and  day  above.  Then  when  people  think  he  rises 
in  the  morning  he  (only)  turns  himself  round  after  reaching  the  end  of 
the  night,  and  makes  day  below  and  night  above.  In  truth,  he  never 
sets.  The  man  who  knows  this,  that  the  surf  never  sets,  enjoys  union 
and  sameness  of  nature  with  him,  and  abides  in  the  same  sphere." 4" 

489  See  Prof.  Haug's  Aitareya  Brahir^na,  ii.  p.  242.  I  differ  from  that  scholar  in 
translating  parastat,  "above,"  and  not  "on  the  other  side."  Compare  Ind.  Stud. 
ix.  p.  278.  See  also  Vishnu  Purana,  ii.  8 ;  p.  241  of  Dr.  Hall's  edition  of  "Wilson's 
Translation,  vol.  ii. 

21 


322       PROFESSOR  WEBER'S  EXPLANATION  OF  THE  ORIGIN 

In  another  passage  (ii.  17)  the  same  work  declares  how  far  heaven 
is  from  earth :  SaJiasram  anuchyam  svargakdmasya  \  sahasrasvlne  vai 
itah  svargo  lolcah  \  "He  who  desires  heaven  should  repeat  a  thousand 
(verses).  For  the  heavenly  world  is  distant  from  hence  a  thousand 
days'  journey  on  horseback." 

In  the  S'atap.  Br.  vi.  6,  2,  4,  it  is  said  that  the  door  of  heaven 
(svarga-loka)  is  situated  in  the  north-eastern  regions  (yad  u  eva  udan 
pram  tishthan  \  etasyam  ha  disi  svargasya  lokasya,  dvdram\  while  that  by 
which  the  heaven  of  the  Fathers  is  entered,  lies  to  the  south-east 
(prdchlm  cha  daJcshindm  cha  \  etasyam  ha  disi  pitriloTcasya  dvaram,  ibid, 
xiii.  8,  1,  5).490 

In  the  legend  on  future  retribution,  quoted  by  Weber,  as  above 
stated,  from  the  same  Brahmana  (xi.  6,  1,  1  ff.)  it  is  related  that 
Bhrigu,  the  son  of  Yaruna,  visited,  by  his  father's  command,  the  four 
points  of  the  compass,  where  he  saw  men  being  cut  into  pieces  and 
eaten  by  other  men,  who,  when  questioned  by  Bhrigu,  declared  that 
they  were  revenging  on  their  victims  the  treatment  which  they  had 
received  at  their  hands  in  the  other  world  (on  earth).  These  victims 
are  allegorically  explained  in  the  Brahmana  as  representing  the  trees, 
animals,  plants,  and  waters  employed  in  sacrifice.  But  Professor 
"Weber  is  of  opinion  that  the  story  is  an  old  popular  legend  regarding 
the  penal  retribution  executed  by  the  former  sufferers  themselves  on 
those  who  had  oppressed  them  while  on  earth,  and  that  the  narrative 
had  been  appropriated  by  the  priests  and  introduced  into  the  Brah- 
mana to  relieve  the  monotony  of  its  tedious  disquisitions,  and  explained 
in  the  manner  I  have  stated. 

I  return' to  Professor  Weber's  discussion  of  the  doctrine  of  the 
Brahinanas  regarding  a  future  state. 

"The  Brahmanas,  however,"  he  continues,  "are  not  explicit  in 
regard  to  the  duration  of  these  rewards  and  punishments  ;  and  it  is 
here  that  we  have  to  seek  the  origin  of  the  doctrine  of  transmigration. 
To  men  of  the  mild  disposition  and  reflective  spirit  of  the  Indians,  it 
would  not  appear  that  re1  ward  and  punishment  could  be  eternal.  They 
would  conceive  that  it  must  be  possible  by  atonement  and  purification 
to  become  absoHed  from  the  punishment  of  the  sins  committed  in  this 

490  See  Weber,  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  ix.  243,  308. 


OF  THE  DOCTRINE  OF  TRANSMIGRATION.  323 

short  life.  And  in  -the  same  way  they  could  not  imagine  that  the 
reward  of  virtues  practised  during  the  same  brief  period  could 
continue  for  ever.  The  dogma  of  transmigration  answered  plainly  to 
both  of  these  suppositions,  though  in  another  respect  it  could  scarcely 
do  so ;  for  where  was  either  a  beginning  or  an  end  to  be  sought  ?  The 
spirit  of  inquiry  sought  to  escape  from  this  dilemma  by  systematic 
refinements  (sonderwng\  but  only  became  more  hopelessly  entangled ; 
and  at  length  it  was  only  extricated  by  cutting  the  knot,  by  succumb- 
ing to  the  influence  of  the  aspiration  after  complete  redemption  from 
the  bondage  of  the  world,  and  of  individual  existence ;  so  that  that 
destiny,  which  was  in  earlier  times  regarded  as  the  greatest  punish- 
ment, was  now  recognized  as  the  highest  reward.  This  mode  of 
cutting  the  knot  is  the  work  of  Buddha  and  Buddhism ;  and  the  best 
proof  that  the  fundamental  substance  of  the  Brahmanas  is  pre-Budd- 
histic  is  (apart  from  all  other  evidence)  to  be  found  in  this,  that  they 
do  not  recognize  the  existence  of  the  dilemma  in  question,  that  they 
know  nothing  of  the  contempt  of  Mfe  to  which  we  have  alluded,  but 
rather  express  with  directness  and  naivete"  a  fresh  and  genuine  love  of 
existence,  and  a  yearning  after  immortality.  It  is  only  some  passages 
of  the  Brihadaranyaka  and  of  the  Chhandogya  Upanishad,  which  form 
an  exception  to  this  assertion ;  and  on  that  account  they  must  be  held 
evidently  to  belong  to  the  period  immediately  preceding  Buddha's 
appearance,  or  even  to  that  which  followed  it." 

It  does  not  quite  agree  with  the  conclusion  here  announced 
that  the  passage  I  have  quoted  above  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana, 
xi.  5,  6,  9,  appears  to  speak  of  union  with  Brahma ; — unless  Brahma, 
and  not  Brahma,  is  meant,  and  unless  the  wo«d  sdtmltta  is  to  be 
understood  in  some  other  sense  than  the  later  one  of  absorption  into 
his  essence. 

Though  Indra,  Varuna,  and  other  gods  are  represented  in  the  Maha- 
bharata  and  Puranas  as  leading  a  sensual  and  immoral  life,491  and 
though  the  Apsarases,  or  celestial  nymphs,  are  expressly  declared  to  be 
courtezans,492  form  the  subject  of  most  voluptutTUs  descriptions,493  and  are 


491  See  the  4th  vol.  of  this  Work,  p.  41.  • 

492  Ibid.  p.  394;  and  Ramayaua,  i.  45,  35  (ed.  Schlegel),  and  i.  46,  2  (Gorresio). 

493  See   Mahabharata,   iii.   1821    ff. ;     Ramayana,    Uttara    Kanda,   xxvi.    16  ff. 
(Bombay  ed.). 


324  QUOTATION  FKOM  THE  MAHABHARATA 

represented  as  being  sent  by  the  gods  from  time  to  time  to  seduce  austere 
sages  into  unchastity,  and  are  promised,  as  we  have  already  seen,  as  the 
companions  of  warriors  in  a  future  life, — yet  the  pictures  drawn  of 
paradise  in  those  works  are  not  always  of  such  a  gross  character.  In 
the  account  of  the  highest  stage  of  heavenly  blessedness  contained  in  the 
Mahabharata,  iii.  15441  ff.,  there  is  no  promise  of  any  sensual  gratification 
held  out.  It  appears  (vv.  15407-1548^)  that  a  sage  named  Mudgala  had 
lived  a  life  of  poverty,  piety,  and  self-restraint,  offering  hospitality  to 
thousands  of  Brahmans,  according  to  his  humble  means,  with  the  grain 
which  he  gleaned  like  a  pigeon  (kapotlm  vrittim  asthitah],  and  which 
(like  the  widow  of  Zarephath's  oil)  never  underwent  diminution,  or 
rather  increased  again  when  it  was  required  (verse  15413 :  brlhidro- 
nasya  tad  hy  asya  dadato  'nnam  mahatmanah  \  sishtam  matsaryahmasya 
vardhaty  atithidarsanat}.  At  length  another  holy  man,  called  Durvasas, 
famous  in  Indian  tradition  for  his  irascible  temper,  came  to  prove  Mud- 
gala's  powers  of  endurance  ;  and  six  times  devoured  all  the  food  which 
the  hospitable  saint  possessed.  Finding  that  the  temper  of  his  host  was 
altogether  unaffected  by  these  trials,  Durvasas  expressed  the  highest 
admiration  of  his  virtue,  and  declared  that  he  would  go  bodily  to 
heaven.  As  he  spoke  these  words  a  messenger  of  the  gods  arrived  in  a 
celestial  car,  and  called  upon  Mudgala  to  ascend  to  a  state  of  complete 
perfection.  The  sage,  however,  desired  first  to  learn  the  advantages 
and  drawbacks  of  the  heavenly  state,  and  the  messenger  proceeded  to 
tell  him  (w.  15441  ff.)  first  what  kind  of  people  go  there,  viz.,  those 
who  have  performed  austerities  or  celebrated  great  sacrifices,  the  truth- 
ful, the  orthodox,  the  righteous,  the  self-restrained,  the  meek,  the 
liberal,  the  brave,  eta.  These  celestial  abodes  were,  he  sai<5,  shining, 
glorious,  and  filled  with  all  delights.  There  is  seen  the  vast  golden 
mountain  Mem,  and  the  holy  garden  Nandana,  etc.,  where  the  righ- 
teous disport.  There  hunger,  thirst,  weariness,  cold,  heat,  fear,  are 
unknown  ;  there  is  nothing  disgusting  or  disagreeable  ;  the  scents  are 
delightful ;  the  sounds  are  pleasant  to  the  ear  and  mind ;  there  is  no 
sorrow,  nor  lamentation, "nor  decay,  nor  labour,  nor  envy,  nor  jealousy, 
nor  delusion.  There  the  blessed  are  oJothed  with  glorious  bodies, 
which  are  produced  by  their  works,  and  not  generated  by  any  father 
or  mother.  Their  garlands  are  fragrant  and  unfading ;  they  ride  in 
aerial  cars.  Beyond  these  regions  there  are,  however,  others  of  a 


EEGAEDING  FUTURE  FELICITY.  325 

• 

higher  character — those  to  which  the  rishis,  who  have  been  purified 
by  their  works,  proceed.  Still  further  on  are  those  where  the 
Bibhus,  who  are  gods  even  to  the  gods,  dwell,  and  where  there 
is  no  annoyance  occasioned  by  women  (stri-kritas  tapaK]^  or  by 
envy  arising  from  the  sight  of  worldly  grandeur.  The  blessed  there 
do  not  subsist  on  oblations,  nor  do  they  feed  upon  ambrosia ;  they 
have  celestial  and  not  coarse  n?«,terial  bodies.  These  eternal  gods  of 
gods  do  not  desire  pleasure ;  they  do  not  change  with  the  revolutions 
of  Kalpas  (great  mundane  ages).  How  can  they  then  be  subject 
either  to  decay  or  death  ?  They  experience  neither  joy,  nor  pleasure, 
nor  delight,  neither  happiness  nor  suffering,  neither  love  nor  hatred. 
That  highest  state,  so  difficult  to  attain,  and  which  is  beyond  the  reach 
of  those  who  seek  after  pleasure  (agamyd  Icama-gocharaih},  is  desired 
even  by  the  gods.  This  celestial  felicity,  the  messenger  says,  is  now 
within  Mudgala's  reach, — the  fruit  of  his  good  deeds.  The  speaker 
next,  according  to  his  promise,  explains  the  drawbacks  of  the  heavenly 
state.  As  the  fruit  of  works  done  on  earth  is  enjoyed  in  heaven, 
whilst  no  other  new  works  are  performed  there  from  which  new 
rewards  could  spring,  this  enjoyment  is  cut  off  from  its  root,  and 
must  therefore  come  to  an  end  (verse  15468  :  Jcritasya  karmanas 
tatra  Ihujyate  yat  phalam  Aim  \  na  chanyat  Tcriyate  karma  mula-chhedena 
Ihujyate).  For  this  world  is  the  place  for  works,  while  the  other  is 
the  place  for  reward  (verse  15475  :  karmabhumir  iyam  brahman  pha- 
labhumir  asau  mata).  This  loss  of  gratifications  to  which  the  heart 
has  become  devoted,  and  the  dissatisfaction  and  pain  which  arise  in  the 
minds  of  those  who  have  sunk  to  a  lower  estate,  from  beholding  the 
more  brilliant  prosperity  of  others,  is  intolerable.  To  this  must  be  added 
the  consciousness  and  the  bewilderment  of  those* who  so  descend,  and 
the  fear  of  falling  which  they  experience  when  their  garlands  begin  to 
fade.  Such  are  the  defects  which  attach  to  all  existence  till  it  is 
absorbed  in  Brahma.  But  the  state  of  those  who  have  fallen  from 
heaven  is  not  altogether  without  compensation.  As  a  result  of  their 
previous  good  deeds  they  are  born  in  a  condition  of  happiness ;  though, 
if  they  are  not  vigilant,  they  sink  still  lower.  Having  given  this 
explanation,  the  messenger  of  the  gods  invites  Mudgala  to  accompany 
him  to  paradise.  The  saint,  however,  after  consideration,  replies  that 
491  Compare  Plato,- Republic,  i.  4. 


326     DIFFERENT  RESULTS  OF  WORKS  AND  OF  KNOWLEDGE. 

he  can  have  nothing  to  do  with  a  state  of  happiness  which  is  vitiated 
by  so  great  defects,  and  the  termination  of  which  is  followed  by  so  great 
misery.  He  has  therefore  no  desire  for  heaven  ;  and  will  seek  only 
that  eternal  abode  where  there  is  no  sorrow,  nor  distress,  nor  change. 
He  then  asks  the  celestial  messenger  what  other  sphere  there  is  which 
is  free  from  all  defects.  The  messenger  replies,  that  above  the  abode 
of  Brahma  is  the  pure  eternal  light,  tLe  highest  sphere  of  Yishnu,  who 
is  regarded  as  the  supreme  Brahma.  Thither  none  can  proceed  who 
are  devoted  to  objects  of  sense,  or  who  are  the  slaves  of  dishonesty, 
avarice,  anger,  delusion,  or  malice ;  but  only  the  unselfish,  the  humble, 
those  who  are  indifferent  to  pain  and  pleasure,  those  whose  senses  are 
under  restraint,  and  those  who  practise  contemplation  and  fix  their 
minds  on  the  deity.  The  sage  then  dismissed  the  messenger  of  the 
gods,  began  to  practise  ascetic  virtues,  becoming  indifferent  to  praise 
and  blame,  regarding  clods,  stones,  and  gold  as  alike.  Pure  knowledge 
led  to  fixed  contemplation ;  and  that  again  imparted  strength  and 
complete  comprehension,  whereby  .he  attained  supreme  eternal  per- 
fection, in  the  nature  of  quietude  [nirvana]  (jndnayogena  suddhena 
dhydnanityo  babhuva  ha  \  dhydnayogdd  balam  laldhvd  prdpya  buddhim 
anuttamdm  \  jagdma  sdsvatlm  siddhim  pardm  nirvdna-lakshandm).*95 

The  difference  between  the  results  of  meritorious  works  and  of 
knowledge,  so  familiar  to  the  religious  philosophy  of  the  Hindus,  is 
clearly  set  forth  in  the  following  verses  of  the  Mahabharata,  xii.  8810  ff.: 

Karmand  badhyate  jantur  fiidyayd  tu  pramuchyate  \  tasmdt  karma  na 
kurvanti  yatayah  pdradarsinah  \  8811.  Karmand  jdy ate  pretya  murti- 
mdn  shodasdtmalcah  \  mdyayd  jdyate  nityam  avyaktam  hy  avyaydtma- 
Icam  \  88l2.fKarma  tv  eke  prasamsanti  svalpaluddhi-ratdh  nardh  \  tena 
te  deha-jdldni  ramayantah  updsate  \  8813.  Ye  sma  buddhim  pardm 
prdptdh  dharma-naipuna-darsinah  \  na  te  karma  prasamsanti  kupam 
nadydm  pibann  iva  \  8814.  Karmanah  phalam  dpnoti  sukhaduhkhe  Iha- 
vdbhavau  \  vidyayd  tad  avdpnoti  yatra  gatvd  na  Sochati  \  8815.  Yatra 
gatvd  na  mriyate  yatra  gatvd  na  jdyate  \  na  punar  jdyate  yatra  yatra 
gatvd  na  varttate  \  8816L  Yatra  tad  Brahma  parhmam  avyaktam  acha- 
lam  dhruvam  \  avydlcritam  andydsam  amritam  chdviyogi  cha  \ 

495  See  the  other  passages  quoted,  s.t>.,  by  Pohtlingk  and  Roth,  from  Brahmanical 
writings  where  this  word  is  used.  Its  employment  by  Buddhists  to  express  the 
highest  destiny  of  mundane  creatures  is  well  known. 


TAMA,  AND  A  FUTURE  LIFE,  A  METRICAL  SKETCH.         327 

"  By  works  a  creature  is  bound ;  by  knowledge  he  is  liberated ; 
wherefore  devotees  gifted  with  perfect  insight  perform  no  works. 
Through  works  a  creature  is  born  again  after  death,  with  a  body  (of 
one  or  other)  of  sixteen  descriptions ;  by  knowledge  he  becomes  the 
Eternal,  Imperceptible,  and  TJndecaying.  Some  men  of  little  under- 
standing eulogise  works,  and.  so  embrace  with  delight  the  entangle- 
ments of  corporeal  existence.  B,ut  those  who  have  reached  the  highest 
intelligence,  and* a  perfect  comprehension  of  righteousness,  do  not 
commend  works,  as  a  person  drinking  from  a  river  thinks  little  of  a 
well.  The  results  which  a  man  obtains  from  works  are  pleasure  and 
pain,  prosperity  and  adversity ;  by  knowledge  he  gains  that  condition 
in  which  his  griefs  are  at  an  end,  in  which  he  dies  not,  in  which  his 
birth  is  not  repeated,  from  which  he  does  not  return  j  in  which  that 
supreme  Brahma  exists  imperceptible,  unchanging,  etc.,  etc." 


(7)  Yama,  and  a  future  life, — a  metrical  sketch.     . 

To  great  king  Yama  homage  pay, 

Who  was  the  first  of  men  that  died, 
That  crossed  the  mighty  gulf,  and  spied 

For  mortals  out  the  heavenward  way. 

No  power  can  ever  close  tho  road 
Which  he  to  us  laid  open  then, 
By  which  in  long  procession  men 
'  Ascend  to  his  sublime  abode. 

By  it  our  fathers  all  have  passed ; 

And  that  same  path  we  too  shall  trace, 

And  every  new  succeeding  race 
Of  mortal  men,  while  time  shall  last. 

* 

The  god  assembles  round  his  throne 
.    A  growing*throng,  the  good  and  wise — 

All  those  whora,  scanned  with  searching  eyes, 
He  recognizes  as  his  own. 


328        YAMA,  AND  A  FUTURE  LIFE,  A  METRICAL  SKETCH. 

Departed  mortal,496  speed  from  earth 

By  those  old  ways  thy  sires  have  trod  ; 
Ascend,  behold  the  expectant  god 

Who  calls  thee  to  a  higher  birth. 

First  must  each  several  element 

That  joined  to  form  thy  living  framet 
Flit  to  the  region  whence  it  came, 

And  with  its  parent  source  be  blent. 

Thine  eye  shall  seek  the  solar  orb, 

Thy  life-breath  to  the  wind  shall  fly, 
Thy  part  ethereal  to  the  sky ; 

Thine  earthy  part  shall  earth  absorb. 

Thine  unborn  part  shall  Agni  bright 
With  his  benignest  fays  illume, 
And  guide  it  through  the  trackless  gloom 

To  yonder  sphere  of  life  and  light. 

On  his  resplendent  pinions  rise, 
Or  soar  upon  a  car  aloft, 
By  "Wind-gods,  fanned  with  breezes  soft, 

Until  thou  enterest  paradise. 

And  calmly  pass,  without  alarm, 

The  four-eyed  hounds  that  guard  the  road 
Which  leads  to  Yama's  bright  abode  : 

Their  master's  friends  they  dare  not  harm. 

«  All  imperfections  leave  behind : 

Assume  tlv'ne  ancient  frame  once  more, — 
Each  limb,  and  sense,  thou  hadst  before, — 
From,  every  earthly  taint  refined, 

196  The  dead  are  thus  addressed  at  funeral  ceremonials. 


NACHIKE'TAS,  AN  ANCIENT  THEOSOPHIC  STOKY.  329 

And  now  with  heavenly  glory  bright, 

With  life  intenser,  nobler,  blest, 

With  large  capacity  to  taste 
A  fuller  measure  of  delight. 

Thou  there  once  more  each  well-known  face 

Shalt  see  of  thoi?£  thou  lovedst  here : 

Th'y  parents,  wife,  and  children  dear, 
With  rapture  shalt  thou  soon  embrace. 

The  Fathers,  too,  shalt  thou  behold, 

The  heroes  who  in  battle  died, 

The  saints  and  sages,  glorified, 
The  pious,  bounteous,  kings  of  old. 

The  gods  whom  here  in  humble  wise 

Thou  worshippedst  with  doubt  and  awe, 
Shall  there  the  impervious  veil  withdraw 
0  Which  hid  their  glory  from  thine  eyes. 

The  good  which  thou  on  earth  hast  wrought, 
Each  sacrifice,  each  pious  deed, 
Shall  there  receive  its  ample  meed ; 

No  worthy  act  shall  be  forgot. 

• 

In  those  fair  realms  of  cloudless  day, 
Where  Tama  every  joy  supplies, 
'     And  every  longing  satisfies, 
Thy  bliss  shall  never  know  decay. 

(8)  NacUMtas,  an  ancient  theosophic  story,  metrically  rendered  from  the 
Taittirlya  £rdhmana,  and  the  Kafka  Upanishad.- 

As  an  illustration  of  the  preceding  remarks  of  Professor  Weber  (in 
pp.  314  ff.),  on  the  subject  of  transmigration,  and  generally  of  the  later 
doctrine  of  the  Upanishads  on  the  nature  and  destiny  of  the  soul, 
I  introduce  here  a  free  metrical  translation  of  the  story  of  Nachiketas, 
as  told  briefly  in  the  Taittirlya  Brahmana,  iii.  11,  8,  1  &.,  and  in  a 


330  NACHIKE'TAS,  AN  ANCIENT  THEOSOPHIC  STORY. 

greatly  developed  form  in  the  Katha  TJpanishad.  An  English  trans- 
lation of  this  Upanishad,  by  Dr.  Eoer,  will  be  found  in  the  Bibliotheca 
Indica,  vol.  xv.  published  in  1853,  pp.  99  ff.,  and  a  German  version 
in  Windischmann's  work,  entitled  "  die  Philosophie  im  Fortgang  der 
"Weltgeschichte,"  pp.  1706  ff. : 

i 

Desiring  heaven,  a  sage  of  old  , 

With  sacrifice  the  gods  adored ; 

Devoting  to  the  priests  his  hoard 
Of  slowly-gathered  goods  and  gold. 

His  son,  young  Nachiketas,  stood, 

And  saw  the  gifts  his  father  brought 
To  give  the  priests :  "My  sire,"  he  thought, 
"  His  vow  has  not  made  fully  good." 

"  Thou  hast  not  all,  my  father,  given 

Thou  hadst  to  give,"  he  calmly  said ; 
"  One  offering  more  must  yet  be  made, 
If  thou  wouldst  hope  to  merit  heaven." 

"  To  whom  shall  I  be  given,  my  sire  ?" 

His  father  deemed  the  question  vain  ; 
Once  more  he  asked,  and  yet  again. 

"  To  Death,"  his  father  cried  in  ire. 
r 

He  rose  to  go  to  Death's  abode ; 

A  Voice  addressed  him  from  the  air, 
"  Go,  seek  Death's  house,  and  enter  there        * 
,  '  What  time  its  lord  shall  be  abroad : 

r 

r 

11  Three  nights  within  his  mansion  stay, 

r  But  taste  not,  though  a  guest,  his  food  ; 
And  when,  in  hospitable  mood 
He  comes  and  asks  thee,  thou  shalt  say  : — 


NACHIKE'TAS,  AN  ANCIENT  THEOSOPHIC  STORY.  331 

'"I  in  thy  house  three  nights  have  past.' 

When  next  he  asks,  '  "What  didst  thou  eat?' 
Say,  '  First  thy  children  were  my  meat, 
Thy  cattle  next,  thy  merits  last.'  " 497 

»          The  youth  that  heavenly  Yoice  obeyed, 

And  dwelt  thre^  nights  in  Death's  abode ; 
When  questioned  by  his  host,  the  god, 
He  answered  as  the  Yoice  had  said. 

Disturbed  that  thus  his  youthful  guest 
Had  not  been  fitly  entertained, 
The  god,  to  make  amends  constrained, 

The  stranger  humbly  thus  addressed : — 

"  I  bow  before  thee,  reverend  child ; 

I  pray  thee,  crave  a  boon  of  me." 
"My  father  let  me,. living,  see," 
The  boy  replied,  "  and  reconciled." 

To  whom  the  god — " I  grant  thy  prayer; 

But  ask  a  second  boon,"  replied. 
"May  my  good  works,"  the  stripling  cried, 
Of  bliss  an  endless  harvest  bear." 

t 
This,  too,  according,  Death  desired 

He  yet  one  boon  would  choose,  the  last. 
•     "  "When  men  away  from  earth  have  past, 
Then  live  they  still  ?  "  the  youth  intfuired. 

' '  To  solve  this  question,  dark  and  grave, 
Was  even  for  gods  too  hard  a  task  : 
This  boon,  I  pray  thee,  cease  to  ask, 

My  son,^'  said  Death,  "another  crave." 

• 

497  By  these  words,  according  ty>  the  Indian  commentator,  it  is  intimated  that  the 
host  who  leaves  his  guest  without  food  for  one  night,  loses  his  children ;  that  hy  a 
similar  neglect  on  the  second  night,  b«  loses  his  cattle ;  and  that,  finally,  he  forfeits 
the  reward  of  his  merits  in  a  future  life,  if  the  guest  is  allowed  to  fast  during  the 
third  night. 


332  NACHIKE'TAS,  AN  ANCIENT  THEOSOPHIC  STOEY. 

Youth  ISachiketas,  undeterred, 

Rejoined,  "The  boon  I  choose,  bestow; 
Who  can  like  thee  the  answer  know  ? 

No  boon  with  this  may  be  compared." 

Death  said,  "Ask  all  thine  teart's  desire  ; 

Sons  long-lived,  cattlp,  gold,  demand, 

Elect  a  wide  domain  of  land, 
And  length  of  days  from  me  require ; 

"  Or  seek  what  earth  cannot  supply — 

The  love  of  witching  heavenly  brides, 
And  all  celestial  joys  besides; 
But  into  death  forbear  to  pry." 

The  youth  rejoined,  "  The  force  of  man 
Is  frail,  and  all  excess  of  joys 
His  feeble  organs  soon  destroys : 

Our  longest  life  is  but  a  span. 

"  Wealth  cannot  satisfy ;  all  zest 

Of  pleasure  flies  before  thy  face ; 
Our  life  depends  upon  thy  grace  : 
Once  more,  of  boons  I  crave  the  best ; 

( 

' '  For  who,  with  deathless  youth  though  crowned, 
And  godlike  force,  if  wise,  would  deign 
To  spend  an  endless  life  in  vain 
in  carnal' joy's  disturbing  round  ?  " 

When  thus  the  stripling  had  withstood, 
Though  proffered  by  a  god,  the  lure 
Of  sensual  bliss,  and  craved  the  pure 

Delight  of  transcendental  good ; 

Then  Death,  who  knew  the  unborn  soul 
And  being's  essence,  taught  the  youth 
The  science  of  the  highest  truth, 

Through  which  is  reached  the  final  goal : 


NACHIKE'TAS,  AN  ANCIENT  THEOSOPHIC  STORY.  333 

"  Two  things  for  men's  regard  contend — 

The  good,  the  pleasant ;  he  who  woos 
The  good  is  blest ;  while  they  who  choose 
The  pleasant  miss  the  highest  end. 

"  The  wise  between*the  two  discern, 

The  pleasant  spurn,  the  good  embrace, 
But  fools  the  pleasant  vainly  chase  ; 
To  love  the  good  they  cannot  learn. 

' 
"  The  first  take  knowledge  for  their  guide ; 

The  last  by  ignorance  are  led  : 
Par,  far,  diverge  the  paths  they  tread, 
The  chasm  that  parts  their  goals  is  wide. 

"  The  fools  who  ignorance  obey, 

Conceive  they  much  have  learnt  and  know, 
But  roam,  unwitting  where  they  go, 
As  blind  men,  led  by  blind  men,  stray. 

"Absorbed  in  sordid  cares  or  strife, 

The  men  whom  earthly  passions  fire 
To  no  sublimer  aims  aspire, 

Nor  dream  of  any  future  life. 

• 

"  Of  all  the  objects  men  can  know, 

The  highest  is  the  soul,  too  high 

'       For  common  mortals  to  descry. 
»  • 

Whose  eyes  are  dazed  by  outward  show. 

"  Some  men  have  never  learnt  this  lore, 

And  some,  whom  sages  seek  to  teach, 
Possess  no  faculty  to  reach 

That  sailed  doctrine's  inner  core. 

• 

"  0  skilled  and  wonderful,  my  son, 

Is  he  the  soul  who  gains  and  know*! 
This  subtile  science  only  those 
Can  teach  who  think  the  soul  as  one. 


334  NACHIKE'TAS,  AN  ANCIENT  THEOSOPHIC  STORY. 

"  The  sage  whose  spirit's  gaze  intense 

This  God,  the  Soul  (from  fleshly  eyes 
Impenetrably  veiled)  descries, 
No  longer  dotes  on  things  of  sense. 

"Derived  from  no  anterior  source, 

The  soul,  unborn,  exempt  from  all . 
The  accidents  which  life  befall, 

Holds  on  its  everlasting  course. 

• 

"  The  smiter  thinks  that  he  can  slay, 

The  smitten  fears  that  he  is  slain  : 
The  thoughts  of  both,  alike  are  vain ; 
The  soul  survives  the  murderous  fray. 

"  Steel  cannot  cut,  nor  cleave,  nor  tear, 

Nor  fire  consume,  nor  water  wet, 

Nor  winds  e'er  dry  it  up,  nor  yet 

Aught  else  its  deathless  essence  wear. 

"  A  man  casts  from  him  on  the  shelf 

His  garments  old,  and  newer  takes ; 
So  bodies  worn  the  soul  forsakes, 
And  new  assumes,  unchanged  itself.498 

"  T,he  man  who  learns  the  soul  to  be  c 

«- 

Minute,  yet  infinitely  vast, 
He,  by  his  Maker's  grace,  at  last 
Its  majesty  attains  to  see. 

"  It  travels  far  and  wide,  at  rest ; 

Moves  everywhere,  although  asleep  ; 
Say,  who  but  I  the  secret  ,deep 
Of  thj-s  mysterious  god  has  guessed  ? 

498  The  ideas  in  this  and  the  preceding  verse  are  taken  from  the  Bhagavadgita. 


NACHIKE'TAS,  AN  ANCIENT  THEOSOPHIC  STORY.  335 

"By  reasoning,  thought,  or  many  books, 
This  hidden  soul  is  sought  in  vain ; 
That  man  alone  the  soul  may  gain 
On  whom  the  soul  with  favour  looks. 

"  Elected  thus,  the  sage  believes 

His  oneness  witji  the  One  supreme, 
Awakes  for  ever  from  the  dream 
"Which  uninstructed  men  deceives ; 

"  And  soon  from  imperfection  purged, 

And  freed  from  circling  life  and  death, 
He  calmly  yields  his  vital  breath, 
And  in  the  sovereign  Soul  is  merged.499 

499  In  the  last  two  verses  I  have  stated  the  Vedantic  doctrine  more  explicitly  than 
it  is  expressed  in  the  Katha  Upanishad. 


336 


SECTION  XXI. 

METOH   DIVINITIES. 
< 

TRITA  APTYA,  AHIRBUDHNYA,  AND  AJA'  EKAPAD. 

The  following  account  of  the  deity,  Trita,  is  given  in  the  Lexicon  of 
Messrs.  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v. : — 

"Trita  is  the  name  of  a  Yedic  god,  who  appears  principally  in  con- 
nection with  the  Maruts,  Vata  or  Vayu,  and  Indra,  and  to  whom,  as 
to  these  other  deities,  combats  with  demons,  Tvashtra,  Yritra,  the 
Serpent,  and  others  are  ascribed.  He  is  called  Aptya,  and  his  abode 
is  conceived  of  as  remote  and  hidden  :  hence  arises  the  custom  of 
wishing  that  evil  may  depart  to  him.  He  bestows  long  life.  Several 
passages  show  the  lower  and  certainly  later  view  of  Trita,  that  he 
fights  with  the  demons  under  the  guidance  and  protection  of  Indra, 
and  thus  lead  to  the  conception  of  a  rishi  Trita  (Nirukta,  iv.  6)." 

Eeference  has  been  already  made  to  Trita  («)  in  p.  117,  where  Pro- 
fessor Roth's  opinion,  that  he  was  an  ancient  god  superseded  by  Indra, 
is  quoted,  (i)  in  p.  230,  where  two  texts  (R.V.  x.  8,  8,  and  x.  99,  6), 
relating  to  his  conflicts  with  the  three-headed  demon,  are  cited,  and 
(c)  in  p.  195,  where  a  prayer  to  Ushas,  to  drive  away  sleeplessness  to 
Trita  Aptya  (R.V.  viii.  47,  14  ff.)  is  adduced. 

Some  of  the  other  detached  verses  relating  to  this  divinity  (to  whom 
no  separate  Itymn  is  Dedicated)  are  the  following:  i.  52,  5 ;  i.  105,  9 ; 
i.  163,  2  f. ;  i.  187,  1 ;  ii.  11,  19  f.,  etc. 

Ahirbudhnya  is,  according  to  the  Lexicon  of  Messrs.  Bohtlingk  and 
Roth,  s.v,,  ludhnya,  "  the  Dragon  of  the  deep,  who  is  reckoned  among 
the  deities  of  the  middle  sphere."  The  deep  in  which  he  resides  is  the 
atmospheric  ocean. 

Aja  Ekapad  is,  according  to  the  same  authorities,  s.v.,  "the  One- 
footed  Impeller,  probably  a  storm-god ;  acpording  to  the  commentators 
he  represents  the  sun."  See  Roth's  Illustrations  of  the  ISirukta,  p. 
165.  These  two  gods,  like  Trita,  are  merely  mentioned  in  detached 
verses. 


337 


SECTION    XX. 

THE  GODDESSES  MENTIONED  IN  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS. 

Of  the  goddesses  mentioned  in  the  Eig-veda  some  have  heen  noticed 
already  in  former  parts  of  this  volume,  viz.,  Prithivi  (pp.  21  ff.) ; 
Aditi,  the  mother  of  the  Adityas,  and  representative  of  the  universe 
(pp.  35  if.);  Diti,  her  counterpart  (p.  42  f.);  NishtigrI,  the  mother 
(pp.  13  and  79),  and  Indram  (p.  82),  the  wife  of  Indra;500  Prisni, 
the  mother  of  the  Maruts  (p.  147) ;  TJshas  (pp.  181  ff.) ;  and  Surya,  the 
daughter  of  the  Sun,  and  spouse  of  the  Asvins,  or  of  Soma  (pp.  335  ff.). 
Various  other  goddesses  are  also  celebrated  in  the  hymns  of  the  Rig- 
veda,  such  as  Agnayi,  Varunani,  tRodasi,  Raka,  Sinivali,  S'raddha 
(Faith),  Aramati,  and  the  Apsarases,  whose  names,  however,  occur  but 
rarely ;  and  Sarasvati,  with  her  cognates,  who  receive  considerably 
greater  prominence. 

In  R.V.  i.  22,  11,  the  goddesses,  wives  of  the  heroes  (the  gods), 
with  uncut  wings,  are  besought  to  protect  and  bless  the  worshipper 
(abhi  no  devlr  avasd  mahah  sarmana  nripatnlh  \  achhinnapatrah  sach- 
antam).  Compare  Vaj.  S.  xi.  61,  and  S'atap.  Br.  vi.  5,  4,  8). 

(1)  Sarasvati. 

Sarasvati  is  "a  goddess  of  some,  though  not  of  very  great^  importance 
in  the  Rig-veda.  As  observed  by  Taska  (Nirukta,  ii.  23)  she  is 
celebrated  both  as  a  river  and  as  a  deity501  (tatra  Sarasvati  ity  etasya 
nadlvad  devatavach  cha  nig  amah  Ihavanti}.  As  an  instance  of  the  former 

600  Indram  says,  in  E.V.  x.  86,  9  :  "  This  mischievous  creature  lusts  after  me, 
as  if  I  had  no  husband  or  sons,  and  yet  I  am  the  wife  of  Indra,  and  the  mother 
of  a  hero,"  etc.  (avlram  ivlt  mam  ayam  sararur  abhi  manyate  \  utaham  asmi  vlrini 
IndrapatnT).  Indrani,  as  we  have  seen  above,  p.  82,  is  mentioned  in  the  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  4,  2, 
7,  from  which  it  appears  that  different  goddesses  had  been  competitors  for  the  hand 
of  Indra,  and  that  Indrani  has  been  chosen  because  she  surpassed  |hem  all  in  volup- 
tuous attractions.     In  the  same  work,  ii.  8,  8,  4,  Vach  is  said  to  be  the  wife  of  Indra. 

601  See  also  Sayana  on  E.V.  i.  3,  1 2  :  Dvividha  hi  Sarasvati  vigrahavad-devata 
nadi-rupa  cha. 

22 


338  SARASVATI. 

character,  lie  refers  to  B..V.  vi.  61,  2,  which  I  shall  quote  further 
on.  She  was  no  doubt  primarily  a  river  deity,  as  her  name,  "  the 
watery," 502  clearly  denotes,  and  in  this  capacity  she  is  celebrated  in  a 
few  separate  passages.  Allusion  is  made  in  the  hymns,  as  well  as  in 
the  Brahmanas  (Rishayo  vai  Sarasvatydm  salram  dsata  \  ityddi  \  Ait. 
Br.  ii.  19  ;  Haug,  vol.  ii.  p.  112)  to  sacrifices  being  performed  on  the 
banks  of  this  river  and  of  the  adjoining  Drishadvatl ; 503  and  the  Saras- 
vati in  particular  seems  to  have  been  associated  with  the  reputation 
for  sanctity,  which,  according  to  the  well-known  passage  in  the  In- 
stitutes of  Manu  (ii.  17  f.,  quoted  in  the  2nd  vol.  of  this  work,  p. 
416  f.),  was  ascribed  to  the  whole  region,  called  Brahmavartta,  lying 
between  these  two  small  streams,  and  situated  immediately  to  the 
westward  of  the  Jumna.  The  Sarasvati  thus  appears  to  have  been 
to  the  early  Indians  what  the  Ganges  (which  is  only  twice  named 
in  the  Big-veda)  became  to  their  descendants.504  Already  in  R.V.  i.  3, 
10  (where,  however,  she  is  perhaps  regarded  as  the  goddess  of  sacrifice) 
she  is  described  as  "the  purifier,"  (pdvakd  nah  Sarasvati) ;  and  in 
K.Y.  x.  17,  10  =  Vaj.  San.  4,  2  ;  A.V.  vi.  51,  2  (after  Sarasvati  has 
been  mentioned,  verses  7-9),  the  waters  are  thus  celebrated :  Apo 
asmdn  mdtarah  sundhayantu  ghritena  no  ghritdpvah  punantu  \  visvaih 
hi  ripram  pravahanti  devir  ud  id  dlhyah  suchir  d  putah  emi  \  "May 
the  Waters,  the  mothers,  cleanse  us,  may  they  (the  waters)  who  purify 
with  butter,  purify  us  with  butter ;  for  these  goddesses  bear  away 
defilement ;  I  come  up  out  of  them  pure  and  cleansed."  When  once 
the  river  had  acquired  a  divine  character,  it  was  quite  natural  that  she 
should  be  regarded  as  the  patroness  of  the  ceremonies  which  were 

(j- 

«  '- 

502  Sarasvati  sarah  ity  udaka-nama  sartes  tad-vafi  (Nirukta,  ix.  26).  The  Brah- 
mavaivartta-purana,  ii.  5,  as  referred  to  in  Professor  Aufrecht's  Cat.  p.  23,  col.  2,  has 
a  legend  that  the  Sarasvati  was  changed  into  a  river  by  an  imprecation  of  the  Ganga. 
In  the  A.V.  vi.  100,  I,  three  Saras  vatis  are  spoken  of,  but  no  explanation  is  given  of 
their  difference. 

.  503  R.V.  iii.  23,  4  :  "  I  place  thee,  Agni,  on  the  abode  of  Ija  (compare  iii.  29,  4), 
on  the  most  excellent  spot  of  the  earth,  on  the  most  auspicious  of  days.  Shine,  so  as 
to  enrich  us,  in  a  place  of  huEian  resort,  on  the  banks  of  the  Drishadvatl,  the  Apaya^ 
the  Sarasvati"  (ni  tva  dadhe  vare  a  prithivyah  ilayas  pade  sudinatve  ahnam  \  Drish- 
advatyam  manushe  Apayayam  Sarasvatyam  revad  Agne  didlhf). 

504  It  is  clear  from  the  passages  quoted,  in  the  2nd  vol.  of  this  Work,  p.  415  ff. 
that  the  Sarasvati  continued  in  later  times  also  to  be  regarded  as  a  sacred  river,  but 
this  character  was  shared  by  other  Indian  streams,  if  not  by  them  all. 


SARASVATI.  339 

celebrated  on  the  margin  of  her  holy  waters,  and  that  her  direction 
and  blessing  should  be  invoked  as  essential  to  their  proper  perform- 
ance and  success.  The  connection  into  which  she  was  thus  brought 
with  sacred  rites  may  have  led  to  the  further  step  of  imagining  her  to 
have  an  influence  on  the  composition  of  the  hymns  which  formed  so 
important  a  part  of  the  proceedings,  and  of  identifying  her  with  Vach, 
the  goddess  of  speech.  At  least,  4  have  no  other  explanation  to  offer 
of  this  double  character  and  identification. 

Sarasvati  is  frequently  invited  to  the  sacrifices  along  with  several 
other  goddesses,  Ila,  Bharati,  Mahi,  Hotra,  Yarutri,  Dhishana  (i.  13,  9; 
i.  142,  9  ;  i.  188,  8  ;  iii.  4,  8  ;  v.  5,  8  ;  ix.  5,  8  ;  x.  110,  8),  who, 
however,  were  never,  like  her,  river  nymphs,  but  personifications  of 
some  department  of  religious  worship,  or  sacred  science.  She  is  also 
frequently  invoked  along  with  other  deities  (ii.  30,  8;  iii.  54,  13; 
v.  42,  12;  vii.  35,  11;  viii.  38,  10;  ix.  81,  4;  x.  65,  1,  13; 
x.  141,  5). 

In  many  of  the  passages505  where  Sarasvati  is  celebrated,  her  original 
character  is,  as  I  have  intimated,  distinctly  preserved.  Thus  in  two 
places  she  is  mentioned  along  with  rivers,  or  fertilizing  waters :  vi. 
52,  6  (Sarasvati  sindhubhih  pinvamdnd}  ;  x.  30,  12  (  dpo  revatlh  ksha- 
yatha  hi  vasvah  kratum  cha  bhadram  lilhrithdmritam  cha  \  rdyas  cha 
stha  svapatyasya  patriih  Sarasvati  tad  grinate  vayo  dhdt  \  "  Ye,  opulent 
waters,  command  riches ;  ye  possess  excellent  power  and  immortality ; 
ye  are  the  mistresses  of  wealth  and  progeny ;  may  Sarasvati  bestow 
this  vitality  on  her  worshipper") ;  and  in  x.  64,  9  ;  x.  75,  5  f.,  she  is 
specified  along  with  the  other  well-known  streams  which  are  there 
named,  the  Sarayu,  the  Sindhu,  the  Ganga,  the  Yamuna,  the  S'utudri, 
etc.  In  vii.  96,  2,  and  viii.  21,  18,  reference  is  made  to  the  kings  and 
people  living  along  her  banks  (  Chitrah  id  rdja  rajakdh  id  anyake  yoke 

505  Sayana  understands  i.  3, 12  (maho  arnah  sarasvati  pra  chetayati  Jcetuna  \  dhiyo 
vis'vah  virajati),  of  the  river,  and  explains  it  thus  :  "  The  Sarasvati,  by  her  act  (of 
flowing),  displays  a  copious  flood."  Both,  in  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta  (xi.  26), 
p.  152,  translates,  "A  migity  stream  is  Sarasvati ;  with  her  light  she  lightens,  illu- 
minates all  pious  minds."  He,  however,  regards  the  commencing  words  as  figura- 
tive, and  not  as  referring  to  the  river.  Benfey  renders :  "  Sarasvati,  by  her  light, 
causes  the  great  sea  to  be  known ;  she  shines  through  all  thoughts."  He  under- 
stands the  "great  sea"  as  the  universe,  «r  as  life,  which  he  says  is  often  designated 
in  common  Sanskrit  also  by  the  word  sagara.  The  conceptions  of  Sarasvati  as  a 
river,  and  as  the  directress  of  ceremonies,  may  be  blended  in  the  passage. 


340  SARASVATI. 

Sarasvatim  anu).  In  vi.  61,  10,  and  vii.  36,  6,  she  is  spoken  of  as 
having  seven  sisters,  as  one  of  seven  rivers,  and  as  the  mother  of 
streams  (saptasvasd  \  sarasvatl  saptathi  sindhumdta).  In  another  place 
she  is  said  to  pour  on  her  fertilizing  waters,  to  surpass  all  other 
rivers,  and  to  flow  pure  from  the  mountains  to  the  sea,  vii.  95,  1  (pra 
kshodasd  dhdyasd  sasre  eshd  Sarasvatl  dharunam  dyasi  puh  \  prabdba- 
dhdnd  rathyeva  ydti  visvdh  apo  mahtild  sindhur  anydh  \  2.  Ekd  achetat 
Sarasvatl  nadlndm  iuchir  ydtl  giribhyah  a  samudrdt  \  rdyai  chetanti 
bhuvanasya  bhiirer  ghritam  payo  duduhe  ndhushdya) ;  to  be  the  swiftest 
of  floods  (apasdm  apastamd},  vi.  61,  13;  and  in  vi.  61,  2  and  8,  to 
tear  away,  like  a  digger  of  the  roots  of  plants,  the  bases  of  the 
mountains  on  her  banks  with  her  impetuous  and  resounding  current 
(iyam  sushmebhir  bisa-khd  ivdrujat  sdnu  girindm  tavishebhir  urmibhih  \ 
8.  Yasydh  ananto  ahrutas  tveshaS  charishnur  arnavah  \  amas  charati 
roruvaf).  In  ii.  41,  16,  she  is  called  the  best  of  mothers,  of  rivers, 
and  of  goddesses  (ambitame,  nadltame,  devfframe). 

In  vii.  96,  4-6,  a  river  god,  called  Sarasvat,  is  assigned  as  a  consort 
to  Sarasvatl,  who  rolls  along  his  fertilizing  waters,  and  is  invoked  by 
the  worshippers  who  are  seeking  for  wives  and  offspring,  as  well  as  for 
plenty  and  protection  (jariiyanto  nu  agravah  putrlyantah  suddnavah  \ 
Sarasvantam  havdmahe  \  5.  Ye  te  Sarasvah  urmayah  madhumanto  glvri- 
taschutah  \  tebJiir  no  avitd  bhava  \  6.  Pipivdmsam  Sarasvatah  stanam 
yo  visvadarsatah  \  bhahhlmahi  prajdm  isham}. 

In  v.  43,  11,  Sarasvatl  is*  called  upon  to  descend  from  the  sky,  from 
the  great  mountain,506  to  the  sacrifice  (a  no  divo  brihatah  parvatdd  a 
sarasvatl  yajatd  gantu  yajnam) ;  and  in  vi.  49,  7,  where  she  is  called 
the  daughter  of  the  lightning  (pdvlravi  hanyd}501  and  the,  wife  of  a 
hero  (yira-patrii)^  she  is  supplicated  to  combine  with  the  spouses  of 
the  gods  to  afford  secure  protection  to  the  worshipper  (gndbhir  achhi- 
dram  saranam  sajoshdh  durddharsham  grinate  sarma  yajnsaf}.  In  these 
two  passages  the  poet  may  perhaps  be  considered  as  assigning  a  celes- 
tial origin  to  the  river  as  the  offspring  of  thunder  and  rain. 


506  Sayana  says  that  Madhyamikl  Vach,  or  th/s  goddess  Vach,  who  resides  in  the 
region  intermediate,  between  heaven  and  earth,  is  here  intended. 

607  See  Roth,  s.v.,  and  compare  x.   Q5>,  13.      Professor  Miiller,  in  Kuhn  and 
Schleicher's  Beitrage,  etc.,  iii.  448,  assigns  to  pavlravl  the  sense  of  "thundering." 

608  Sayana  says  her  husband  is  Prajapati.     Would  it  not  rather  be  Sarasvat  ? 


SAEASVATI.  341 

In  vi.  61,  11  f.,  she  is  said  to  fill  the  terrestrial  regions  and  the  air 
(dpaprushl  pdrthivdni  uru  rajo  antariksham],  and  to  occupy  three  abodes 
(trisadashtha),  and  to  have  seven  parts  or  be  sevenfold  (sapta-dhdtit). 

When  regarded  as  a  river  nymph,  Sarasvati  is  further  described  as 
an  iron  barrier  or  fortress,  and  a  support,  vii.  95,  1  (quoted  above),  as 
bestowing  wealth,  fatness,  and 'fertility,  vii.  95,  2,  and  is  besought  to 
listen  to  the  prayer  of  her  worshippers  at  their  sacrifices,  ibid.  4  fyita 
syd  nah  Sarasvati  jushdnd  upairavat  subhagd  yajne  asmiri),  to  receive 
their  praises,  to  shelter  and  protect  them  like  a  tree,  ibid.  5  (prati 
stomam  Sarasvati  jushasva  \  tava  sarman  priyatame  dadhdndh  upa  sthe- 
ydma  saranam  na  vriksham'),  and  to  grant  reputation  to  the  unrenowned, 
ii.  41,  16  (aprasastdh  iva  smasi  prasastim  amba  nas  kridhi}.  In  vi.  61, 
14,  the  rishi  prays  that  he  may  not  be  removed  from  her  to  regions 
which  are  strange  (md  tvat  Icshetrdni  arandni  ganma). 

In  vi.  61,  1,  she  is  represented  as  having  given  to  Vadhryasva  a  son, 
Divodasa,  a  canceller  of  h^  debts  (iyam  adaddd  rabhasam  rinachyutam 
Divoddsam  Vadhryasvdya  ddsushe)., 

It  is  difficult  to  say  whether  in  any  of  the  passages  in  which  Saras- 
vatl is  invoked,  even  in  those  where  she  appears  as  the  patroness  of 
holy  rites,  her  character  as  a  river  goddess  is  entirely  left  out  of  sight. 
In  E.Y.  x.  17,  8,  she  is  described  as  coming  to  the  place  of  sacrifice  in 
the  same  chariot  with  the  oblations  and  the  forefathers  (Sarasvati  yd 
saratham  yaydtha  svadhdbhir  devi  pitribhir  madanti],  and  as  an  object 
of  adoration;  but,  as  in  a  following  verse1  (the  10th),  already  quoted, 
the  Waters  also  are  invoked,  it  would  seem  that  the  goddess  was  there 
regarded  as  connected  with  the  river.  She  is  elsewhere  represented  as 
unctuous  ^vith  butter,  and  as  stimulating,  directing,  and  prospering  the 
devotions  of  the  worshippers,  i.  3,  10,  11 ;  ii.  3,  8 ;  vi.  61,  4  (choda- 
yantl  sunritdndm  chetantl  sumatlndm  yajnam  dadhe  Sarasvati  \  Sarasvati 

sddhayantl  dhiyam  nah  \  pra  no  devi  Sarasvati dhlndm  avitrl 

avatu).  She  affords  secure  protection,  conquers  enemies  (ii.  30,  8  ; 
vi.  49,  7),  and  destroys  the  revilers  of  the  gods  (vi.  61,  3).  She 
is  dreadful,  moves  along  a  golden  path,509  and,  is  a  destroyer  of  Vritra, 

• 

09  Hiranyavarttini.  Sayana  explains  varttini  as  chariot,  and  the  compound  as 
meaning  "having  a  golden  chariot."  •  The  same  word  occurs  again,  applied  to  a 
river,  in  viii.  26,  18,  where  Sayana  makes  it  mean  "  having  a  golden  path,"  »'.*. 
golden  banks.  The  words  rudra-varttani,  "whose  path  is  dreadful,"  and  ghrita- 


342  SARASVATI. 

vi.  61,  7  (ghord  hiranyavartanih  \  vritraghrii).  The  worshipper  seeks  to 
suck  prosperity  and  riches  of  all  description  from  her  prolific  breasts,610 
i.  89,  3 ;  i.  164,  49  (yas  te  stanah  sasayo  yo  maydbhur  yena  visvd  pushyasi 
vdrydni  \  yo  ratnadhdh  vasuvid  yah  sudatrah  Sarasvati  tarn  iha  dhdtave 
kaJi) ;  viii.  21,  17  ;  x.  17,  8,  9 ;  ix.  67,  32 ;  she  is  the  receptacle  of  all 
the  powers  of  life,  and  bestows  offspring,  ii.  41,  17  (tve  visva  Sarasvati 
srftd  dyumshi  devydm  |  .  .  .  .  prajam  ''devi  dididdhi  naV).  In  x.  184,  2, 
she  is  associated  with  the  deities  who  assist  procreation  (garbham  dftehi 
Sarasvati}.  In  ii.  1,  11,  Agni  is  identified  with  her,  and  several  other 
goddesses. 

In  R.V.  x.  131,  5  (=Yaj.  S.  x.  34)  where  the  Asvins  are  said  to 
have  defended  Indra,  Sarasvati  also  is  declared  to  have  waited  upon 
him.  And  in  Vaj.  S.  xix.  12,  it  is  said,  "  The  gods  celebrated  a  heal- 
ing sacrifice;  the  Asvins  physicians,  and  Sarasvati  too  a  physician, 
through  speech,  communicated  vigour  to  Indra "  (see  above,  p.  94, 
note).  The  Asvins  and  Sarasvati  are  also  connected  with  each  other 
inVaj.  S.  xix.  12,  15,  18,  34,  80-83,  88-90,  93-95;  xx.  56-69, 
73-76,  90.  In  xix.  94,  it  is  said  that  "  Sarasvati,  wife  of  the  Asvins, 
holds  a  well-formed  embryo  in  her  womb.  Varuna,  king  in  the  waters, 
produced  Indra  for  glory,  by  the  aqueous  fluid,  as  if  by  a  sama  verse,'' 
xix.  94  (Sarasvati  yonydm  garbham  antar  Asvilhydm  patnl  sulcritam, 
bibharti  \  apdm  rasena  Varuno  na  sdmnd  Indrafh  sriyai  janayann 
apsu  rdjd}. 

It  does  not  appear  that  in  the  R.V.  Sarasvati  is  identified  with 
Vach.  For  some  passages  of  that  collection,  in  which  the  latter 
goddess  is  celebrated,  I  refer  to  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  Work,  pp.  253  S., 
and  to  a  late?  sectioi?  of  this  volume.  < 

In  the  later  mythology,  as  is  well  known,  Sarasvati  was  identified 
with  Vach,  and  became  under  different  names  the  spouse  of  Brahma, 
and  the  goddess  of  wisdom  and  eloquence,  and  is  invoked  as  a  Muse. 
In  the  Mahabharata  she  is  called  the  mother  of  the  Vedas  (S'antiparva, 
verse  12920),  and  the  same  is  said  of  Vach  in  the  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  8, 

varttani,  "  whose  path  is  unctuous,"  are  also  applied  to  different  deities  in  the  Eig- 
veda.  Erishna-varttani,  "he  whose  path  is  marked  by  blackness,"  is  an  epithet  of 
Agni,  in  viii.  23, 19,  and  the  sense  of  that  term  is  fixed  by  the  use  of  the  synonym 
krishnadhvan.  The  substantive  varttani  occurs  in  vii.  18, 16;  vrijina-varttani,  i.  31,  6. 
510  Compare  Ait.  Br.  iv.  1,  at  the  end,  where  her  two  breasts  are  said  to  be  truth 
and  falsehood. 


APAS,  THE  WATERS,  AND  THE  EIVERS.  343 

8,  5,511  where  (and  in  the  preceding  par.  4,)  she  is  also  said  to  he  the 
wife  of  Indra,  to  contain  within  herself  all  worlds,  and  to  have  been 
sought  after  by  the  rishis  who  composed  the  Vedic  hymns  (rishayo 
mantra-Jcritah],  as  well  as  by  the  gods,  through  austerity. 

In  the  S'antiparva,  verse  6811,  it  is  related  that  when  the  Brah- 
marshis  were  performing  austerities,  prior  to  the  creation  of  the  uni- 
verse, "a  voice  derived  from  Brahma  entered  into  the  ears  of  them  all ; 
the  celestial  SarasvatI  was  then  produced  from  the  heavens." 61Z 

(2)  Apas,  the  Waters,  and  the  Rivers. 

A  verse  (x.  17, 10)  has  been  already  cited,  in  p.  338,  in  which  the  puri- 
fying virtue  of  the  "Waters  is  extolled ;  and  there  is  another  passage, 
i.  23,  22  (=x.  9,  8),  in  which  the  power  of  cleansing  the  worshipper 
from  the  sins  of  violence,  cursing,  and  falsehood  is  ascribed  to  them 
(idam  dpah  pra  vahata  ya^cincha  duritam  mayi  \  yad  vd  aham  abhidu- 
droha  yad  vd  iepe  utdnritam}.  They  are  said,  in  two  passages,  already 
cited  in  p.  205,  to  have  given  birth  to  Agni ;  a  few  separate 
hymns,  vii.  47  ;  vii.  49 ;  x.  9,  are  devoted  to  their  honour ;  and  in 
numerous  detached  verses  they  are  invoked  along  with  other  deities. 
I  cite  a  hymn  in  which  the  Sindhu  (Indus)  and  other  rivers  are 
celebrated : — 

B.V.  x.  75,  1 :  Pra  su  vah  dpo  mahimdnam  uttamam  kdrur  vochdti 
sadane  vivasvatah  \  pra  sapta  sapta  tredhdjii  chakramuh  pra  sritvarlndm 
ati  Sindhur  ojasd  \  2.  Pra  te  'radad  Varuno  ydtave  pathah  Sindho  yad 
vdjdn  alhi  adravas  tvam  \  Ihumydh  adhi  pravatd  ydti  sdnund  yad  eshdm 
agram  jagatHm  irajyasi  \  3.  Divi  svano  yatate  bhumyd  upari  anantam 
sushmam  ud  iyarti  bhdnund  \  abhrdd  iva  pr&stanayanti  vrishtayah 
Sindhur  yad  eti  vrishabho  na  roruvat  \  4.  Abhi  tvd  Sindho  sisum  in  na 

511  In  the  S'attip.  Br.  rii.  5,  2,  52,  it  is  said,  "  Mind  is  the  ocean.    From  mind, 
the  ocean,  the  gods,  with  Vach  for  a  shovel,  dug  out  the  triple  science  (i.e.  the  three 
Vedas).    Wherefore  this  verse  (sloka)  has  heen  uttered  "  (see  the  3rd  vol.  of«this 
Work,  p.  9,  etc.    In  tbfc  Bhishma-p.  of  the  M.  Bh.  verse  3019,  Achyuta  (Krishna) 
is  said  to  have  created  SarasvatI  and  the  Vedas  from^iis  mind.     In  the  Vana-p.  verse 
13432,  the  Gayatri  is  called  the  Another  of  the  Vedas. 

512  Compare  the  verse  quoted  hy  S'ankara  on  the  Brahma  sutras  (see  the  3rd  vol. 
of  this  Work,  pp.  16  and  104),  from  a  Smriti:  "In  the  beginning  a  celestial  voice, 
formed  of  the  Vedas,  eternal,  without  beginning  or  end,  was  uttered  by  Svayambhu, 
from  which  all  activities  have  proceeded." 


344  APAS,  THE  WATERS,  AND  THE  RIVERS. 

mdtarah  vdsrdh  arshanti  payaseva  dhenavah  \  rdjeva  yudhvd  nayasi  tvam 
it  sichau  yad  dsdm  agram  pravatdm  inakshasi  \  5  (=Mr.  ix.  26). 
Imam  me  Gange  Yamune  Sarasvati  S'utudri  stomam  sachata  Parushni  d  \ 
Asiknyd  Marudvridhe  Vitastayd  Arjlklye  srinuhi  d  Sushomayd  \  6. 
Trishtdmayd  prathamam  ydtave  sajuh  Susartvd  Rasayd  S'vetya  tyd  \  tvam 
Sindho  Kubhayd  Gomatltn  Krumum  Me^atnvd  saratham  ydlhir  lyase  \ 
7.  Itijlti  enl  rusatl  mahitvd  pari  jrardmsi  lharate  rajdmsi  \  adabdhd 
Sindhur  apasdm  apastamd  asvd  na  chitrd  vapushl  iva  darsatd  \  8. 
Svafad  Sindhuh  surathd  suvdsdh  hiranyayl  sukritd  vdjiriivati  \  urndvatl 
yuvatih  sllamdvatl  utddhi  vaste  sulhaga  madhuvridham  \  9  (=Nir.  vii. 
7).  S'ukham  ratham  yuyuje  Sindhur  asvinam  tena  vdjam  sanishad  asminn 
djau  |  mahdn  hi  asya  mahimd  panasyate  adabdhasya  svayaiaso  virapiinah  \ 

"1.  Waters,  let  the  poet  declare  your  transcendant  greatness  in  the 
abode  of  the  worshipper.  Each  set  of  seven  [streams]  has  followed  a 
threefold  course.  The  Sindhu  surpasses  the  other  rivers  in  impetuosity. 
2.  Varuna  hollowed  out  the  channels  of  t%  course,  o  Sindhu,  when 
thou  didst  rush  to  thy  contests.  Thou  flowest  from  [the  heights  of] 
the  earth  over  a  downward  slope,  when  thou  leadest  the  van  of  these 
streams.  3.  A  sound  struggles  onward  in  the  sky  above  the  earth. 
[The  current]  exerts  an  infinite  force  with  a  flash.  Showers  thunder 
as  if  [falling]  from  a  cloud  ;  when  the  Sindhu  rolls  on,  it  roars  like  a 
bull.  4.  To  thee,  o  Sindhu,  the  [other  streams]  rush,  as  lowing 
mother-cows  with  their  milk  to  their  calves.  Like  a  warrior  king 
[in  the  centre  of  his  army]  thou  leadest  the  two  wings  of  thy  host 
when  thou  strugglest  forward  to  the  van  of  these  torrents.  5.  Receive 
favourably  this  my  hymn,  o  Ganga,  Yamuna,  Sarasvati,  S'utudri,  Paru- 
shni; hear,  o(Marudvridha,  with  the  Asikni,  and  Vitasta,  and  thou, 
Arjikiya  with  the  Sushoma.  6.  Unite  first  in  thy  course  with  thg 
Trishtama,  the  Sasartu,  the  Rasa,  and  the  SVeti ;  thou  [meetest]  the 
Gomati,  and  the  Krumu  with  the  Kubha,  and  the  Mehatnu,  and  with 
them  are  borne  onward  as  on  the  same  car.  7.  Flashing,  sparkling, 
gleaming,  in  her  majesty,  the  unconquerable,  the  most  abundant  of 
streams,  beautiful  as  a  handsome  spotted  mare,  tne  Sindbu  rolls  her 
waters  over  the  levels.  8.  Mistress  of  a  chariot,  with  noble  horses, 
richly  dressed,  golden,  adorned,  yielding  nutriment,  abounding  in 
wool,  youthful,  rich  in  plants,513  gracious,  she  traverses  [a  land] 

813  On  the  word  sllamavatl  and  the  following  words  of  the  line  in  which  it  occurs, 


THE  APSAEASES.  345 

yielding  sweetness  [?].  9.  The  Sindhu  has  yoked  her  pleasant  chariot 
drawn  by  horses.  By  it  may  she  grant  us  vigour  in  this  struggle : 
for  greatly  celebrated  is  the  glory  of  that  unconquered,  illustrious, 
and  much-lauded  [chariot]. 

In  one  place,  vi.  50,  7,  the  Waters  are  said  to  be  remedial  and  the 
mothers  of  all  things  fixed  and  moving  (yuyam  hi  stha  Ihishajo  matri- 
tamdh  visvasya  sthatur  jayatojaititrlK). 

(3)  The  Apsarases. 

These  goddesses  have  been  already  mentioned  in  the  section  on 
Tama,  p.  309,  and  will  be  further  adverted  to  below. 

In  the  passage  of  the  R.V.  vii.  33,  10  ff.,  quoted  in  the  1st  vol.  of 
this  work,  p.  320,  the  Bishi  Vasishtha  is  said  to  have  sprung  from  an 
Apsaras,  Urvasl.  In  the  dictionary  of  Messrs.  Bb'htlingk  and  Roth 
the  Apsarases  are  described  as  female  beings  of  a  ghost-like  description, 
whose  abode  is  in  the  atn^sphere.  They  are  the  wives  of  the  Gand- 
harvas,  have  the  power  of  changing  their  forms,  love  playing  at  dice, 
and  impart  good  luck.  According  to  the  A.V.  the  Apsarases  are  feared 
like  other  ghostly  beings,  and  enchantments  are  employed  against 
them  ;  especially  because  they  cause  madness. 

Professor  Goldstiicker,  s.v.  says:  "Originally  these  divinities  seem 
to  have  been  personifications  of  the  vapours  which  are  attracted  by  the 
sun,  and  form  into  mist  or  clouds."  (See  full  details  in  his  article.) 

(4)  Acfndyi,  Varunarii,  etc. 

Excepting  Prithivi,  Aditi,  and  Ushas,  most  of  the  other  goddesses 
mentioned  in,  the  Rig-veda  are,  as  I  have  already  intimated,  p.  337,  of 
very  littlfe  importance.  Agnayl;  Varunani,  Asvftri,  and  'Rodasi,511  the 
wives  of  Agni,  Varuna,  the  Asvins,  and  Rudra  respectively  (Nirukta, 
ix.  33  f. ;  xi.  50 ;  xii.  46),  are  only  alluded  to  in  a  few  passages,  R.V. 
i.  22, 12 ;  ii.  32,  8 ;  v.  46,  8 ;  vi.  50,  5 ;  vi.  66,  6  ;  vii.  34,  22.  No 
distinct  functions  are  assigned  to  them,  and  they  do  not  occupy  posi- 

I  subjoin  Sayana's  note,  for  a  copy  of  which  I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Max  Muller : 
x.  75,  8  :  silamavati  sirani  yayoshadhya  rajjubhutatfa  bhadhyante  (badhyante  ?)  sa 
silameti  nigadyate  krishlvalaih  \  tadrigoshadhyupeta  utapi  cha  subhaga  sindhur 
madhuvridham  madhuvardhakam  nirgundyadi  adhivaste  achhadayati  tasyds  fire 
nirgundyadmi  bahuni  santi.  , 

su  According  to  Siiyana  (on  i.  167,  5)  Eodasi  is  marut-patni  vidyud  va,  "The 
wife  of  the  Maruts,  or  Lightning." 


346  S'EADDHA. 

tions  at  all  corresponding  to  the  rank  of  their  husbands,  with  whom 
in  fact  they  are  never  associated.  The  insignificance  of  these  goddesses 
forms  a  striking  contrast  to  the  prominent  place  assumed  by  the  spouses 
of  S'iva  and  Vishnu,  especially  the  former,  in  the  later  mythology. 
Nirriti  is  the  goddess  of  destruction. 

(5)  Aranyanl. 

Aranyani  (N"ir.  ix.*29,  30)  is  the  goddess  of  forest  solitude.  She  is 
celebrated  in  R.V.  x.  146,  which  I  shall  translate  in  a  succeeding 
section. 

(6)  Hdkd,  Sinlvdli,  and  Gungu. 

Raka,  Simvali,  and  Gungu  (whom  Sayana,  on  ii.  32,  8,  identifies 
with  Kuhu),  are  three  other  goddesses  mentioned  in  the  R.V.  (the  first 
in  ii.  32,  4,  5,  8;  v.  42,  12 ;  the  second  in  ii.  32,  6  ff. ;  x.  184,  2 ; 
and  the  third  in  ii.  32,  8).  Sayana  (on  ii.  32,  4)  says  that  Raka  is 
the  full  moon.515  She  is,  however,  closely  ^ranected  with  parturition, 
as  she  is  asked  to  "sew  the  work"  (apparently  the  formation  of  the 
embryo)  "with  an  unfailing  needle,  and  to  bestow  a  son  with  abundant 
wealth,"  ii.  32,  4  (slvyatv  apah  suchyd  achhidyamdnayd  daddtu  vlrarh 
sataduyam  ukthyam).  Simvall  and  Kuhu  are  (as  we  are  told  by  Yaska, 
Nir.  xi.  31)  wives  of  the  gods  according  to  the  mythologists  (nairuktdh], 
and  the  two  nights  of  the  new  moon  (amdvdsye}  according  to  the  ritu- 
alists (yajnikdh},  Sinlvali  being  the  earlier,  and  Kuhu  the  later.  Simvali 
is,  however,  also  connected  w?.th  parturition,  being  called  prithushtkukd, 
"the  broad-loined  (or  "bushy-haired"),  bahusuvari,  "the  prolific;" 
subdhu,  "the  handsome-armed;"  svanguri,  "the  handsome-fingered, 
being  supplicated  for  progeny,  ii.  32,  6,  7  (prajdm  devi  dididdhi  nah), 
and  asked  to  bestoW  pregnancy,  x.  184,  2  (garlham  dhehi  Siriivali}\ 
A.V.  v.  25,  3  ;  vi.  11,  3.  Yaska  quotes  from  the  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  3,  11,  a 
verse  regarding  Kuhu,  whose  name  does  not  occur  in  the  Rig-veda. 
See  also  the  account  of  Anumati  in  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon,  s.v. 

(7)  Sraddhd. 

Personifications  of  abstract  ideas  are  not  uncommon  in  the  Rig-veda, 
one  hymn  of  which  (x.  151)  is  addressed  to  S'raddha,  or  religious  faith. 
By  her,  it  is  said,  verse  1  (=Nir.  jx.  31),  "the  (sacrificial)  fire  is 

•'5  On  these  goddesses  see  "Weber's  Ind.  Stud.  v.  228  ff.  and  237. 


S'RADDHA.  347 

kindled,  and  by  her  the  oblation  is  offered  up  "  (sraddhayd  'gnih  sami- 
dhyate  sraddhayd  huyate  havih).  She  is  asked  to  prosper  the  liberal 
worshippers  of  the  gods  (verses  2,  3),  and  to  impart  faith ;  and  is  said 
to  be  an  object  of  adoration  in  the  morning,  at  noon,  and  at  sunset 
(verse  5).  In  the  Yaj.  Sanhita,  xix.  30,  it  is  said  that  faith  (sraddhd} 
is  obtained  by  gifts,  and  truth  by  faith  (dakshind  sraddham  dpnoti 
sraddhayd  satyamtdpyate).  In  xix.  77  of  the  same  work  it  is  declared 
that  "Prajapati,  beholding,  made  a  distinction  between  the  forms  of 
truth  and  falsehood,  connecting  disbelief  with  the  latter,  and  faith  or 
belief  with  the  former  "  (drishtvd  rupe  vydlcarot  satydnrite  Prajdpatih  \ 
asraddhdm  anrite  'dadhdt  sraddham  satye  Prajdpatih}.  This  declara- 
tion, that  truth  is  the  only  proper  object  of  faith,  has  a  far  deeper 
signification  than  this  ancient  writer  could  possibly  have  assigned  to 
it,  viz.,  that  it  is  the  ultimate  truth,  and  not  the  so-called  orthodoxy 
of  any  proposition,  which  can  alone  entitle  it  to  reception. 

S'raddha  is  also  celebra^d  in  the  Taitt.  Br.,  ii.  8,  8,  6  f.,  where  the 
above  hymn  of  the  Rig-veda  is  repeated ;  and  she  is  there  further  said 
to  dwell  among  the  gods,  to  be  the  universe  (sraddhd  devdn  adhivaste 
sraddhd  msvam  idamjagaf},  and  the  mother  of  Kama.  (See  the  next 
Section).  In  the  same  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  12,  3,  1,  we  are  told  that  through 
S'raddha  a  god  obtains  his  divine  character,  that  the  divine  S'raddha  is 
the  support  of  the  world,  that  she  has  Kama  (or  the  fulfilment  of 
desire)  for  her  calf,  and  yields  immortality  as  her  milk ;  that  she  is 
the  firstborn  of  the  religious  ceremonial,  and  the  sustainer  of  the 
whole  world;  and  she,  who  is  the  supreme  mistress  of  the  world, 
is  besought  to  bestow  immortality  on  her  worshippers  (sraddhayd  devo 
devatvan  asnute  \  S'raddha  pratishthd  lolcasya  devl  \  .  * .  .  Edmavatsd 
Amritam  duhdnd  \  S'raddha  devl  prathamajd  ritasya  \  visvasya  bhartrl 
jagatah  pratishthd  \  tdm  S'raddhdm  havishd  yajdmahe  \  sd  no  lokam 
amritam  dadhdtu  zsdnd  devl  Ihuvanasyddhipatni}.  In  the  S'atap.  Br., 
xii.  7,  3,  11,  she  is  called  the  daughter  of  Surya;516  an  appellation 
which  is  repeated  in  the  M.  Bh.  S'antiparva,  verse  9449,517  where'  she 

616  See  what  is  said  of  the  daughter  of  Surya  above,  in  connection  with  the  As'vins. 

617  In  this  passage  a  great  def^l  is  said  in  praise  of  S'raddha.   The  gods,  it  appears, 
had  decided  that  the  offerings  of  a  niggardly  student  of  the  Veda  and  a  liberal  usurer 
were  of  equal  value.    But  Prajapati  ietermined  that  they  were  wrong  (see  the  same 
sentiment,  in  nearly  the  same  words,  in  Manu,  iv.  224  ff.),  and  that  the  liberal  man's 
oblation,  being  purified  by  his  faith,  was  to  be  accepted,  whilst  the  other  man's,  being 


348  LAKSHMI  AND  S'RI. 

is  styled  the  daughter  of  Vivasvat  (S'raddha  Vaivasvati),  as  well  as  of 
Surya  and  Savitri  (Suryasya  duhita  and  Savitri).  (See  above,  p.  264  f., 
the  story  of  Soma  loving  S'raddha.  See  also  the  definition  given  of 
Aramati  in  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon,  s.v.) 

(8)  Lakshml  and  S'rl. 

( 
Lakshml  is  not  found  in  the  Eig-veda,  in  the  sense  which  the  word 

bears  in  the  later  mythology,  of  a  goddess  personifying  good  fortune, 
though  the  word  itself  occurs  in  x.  71,  2,518  in  a  kindred  signification. 
In  the  A.V.,  however,  we  have  the  following  hymn,  which  speaks  of 
a  plurality  of  Lakshmis,  some  good  and  some  bad:  vii.  115,  1 :  Pro, 
patetah  pdpi  LaksJimi  nasyetah  prdmutah  pata  \  ayasmayena  ankena 
dvishate  tvd  sajdmasi  \  2.  Yd  md  Lakshmlh  pataydlur  ajushtd  abhicha- 
skanda  vandaneva  vrishsham  \  anyatrdsmat  Savitas  tdm  ito  dhdh  hiranya- 
hasto  vasu  no  rardnah  \  3.  Ekasatam  Lakshn^fo  martyasya  sdTcaffi  tanvd 
janusho  'dhi  jdtdh  \  tdsdm  pdpishthdh  nir  itah  pro  hinmah  sivdh  asma- 
IJiyarh  jdtavedo  ni  yachha  \  4.  Etdh  evd  vydkaram  khile  gdh  nishthitdh 
iva  \  ramantdm  punydh  Lakshmir  ydh  pdpu  tdh  anlnasam  \  "  Fly  away 
hence,  o  unlucky  (or  miserable)  Lakshml,  perish  hence,  fly  away  from 
thence  :  with  an  iron  hook  we  fasten  thee  to  our  enemy.  2.  Savitri, 
do  thou  who  art  golden-handed,  bestowing  on  us  wealth,  send  away 
from  us  to  some  other  quarter  the  flying  and  hateful  Lakshml,  who 
mounts  upon  me  as  a  creeper,519  upon  a  tree.  3.  A  hundred  Lakshmis 
are  born  together  with  the  body  of  a  mortal  at  his  birth.  Of  these  we 

vitiated  by  his  unbelief,  was  to  be  rejected.  Unbelief,  it  is  added,  is  the  greatest  of 
sins,  but  faith  takes  away  sin  (devah  vittam  amanyanta  sadrisam  ylyna-karmani  \ 
s'rotriyasya  kactaryasya,  ladanyasya  cha  vardhwheh  \  mtmamsitvobhayam  devah 
samam  annam  akalpayan  \  Prajapatis  tan  uvacha  "vishamam  kritam"  ity  uta  \ 
sraddha-putam  vadanyasya  hatam  asraddhayetarat  |  .  . .  .  asraddha  paramam  papam 
sraddha  papapramochanT).  A  similar  sentiment  is  expressed  in  the  Vana-parva, 
13461  ff. :  "  The  doubter  enjoys  neither  this  world  nor  the  next,  nor  any  gratification. 
Those  ancient  sages  who  possess  true  knowledge  have  said  that  faith  is  a  sign  of  final 

liberation Abandoning  fruitless  (lit.  dry)  argumentations  adhere  to  the  s'ruti 

and  the  smriti  "  (nayam  loko  'sti  na  paro  na  sukham  samsa'i,atmanah  \  uchur  jnana- 
vido  vriddhah  pratyayo  moksfia-lakshanam  \  sushka-tarkam  parityajya  asrayasva 
s'rutim  smritim), 

518  In  the  words  bhadra  esham  lakshml  nihita  adhi  vachi,  "  an  auspicious  fortune 
is  attached  to  their  words."  «. 

619  Vandana.  This  word  does  not  occur  in  Wilson's  Dictionary,  but  I  find  there 
vanda  in  the  sense  of  a  creeping  plant. 


LAKSHMI  AND  S'RI.  349 

chase  away  hence  the  most  unlucky.  Do  thou,  Jatavedas,  retain  for 
us  those  which  are  fortunate.  4.  Thus  I  divide  them  like  cows 
standing  upon  barren  ground.  May  those  Lakshmis  which  are  auspi- 
cious rest  here.  Those  which  are  unlucky  I  destroy."  (The  ex- 
pression punyd  LaJcshml  occurs  also  in  A.V.  xii.  5,  6.) 

In  the  Vaj.  S.  xxxi.  22  (S'rls  cJia  te  LaTcshrniS  chapatnyau),  S'ri  and 
Lakshmi  are  said  .to  be  the  two*wives  of  Aditya,  according  to  the  com- 
mentator's explanation.  In  the  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  4,  3,  1,  S'ri  is  described 
as  issuing  forth  from  Prajapati  when  he  was  performing  intense 
austerity,  with  a  view  to  the  creation  of  living  beings.  Beholding  her 
then  standing  resplendent  and  trembling,520  the  gods  were  covetous  of 
her,  and  proposed  to  Prajapati  that  they  should  be  allowed  to  kill  her,, 
and  appropriate  her  gifts.  He  replied  that  she  was  a  female,  and  that 
males  did  not  generally  kill  females.  They  should  therefore  take  from 
her  her  gifts  without  depriving  her  of  life.  In  consequence,  Agni 
'took  from  her  food ;  Sbma,  kingly  authority  ;  Varuna,  imperial 
authority;  Mitra,  martial  energy.;  Indra,  force;  Brihaspati,  priestly 
glory ;  Savitri,  dominion  ;  Pushan,  splendour ;  Sarasvati,  nourishment ; 
and  Tvashtri,  forms.  S'ri  then  complained  to  Prajapati  that  they  had 
taken  all  these  things  from  her.  He  told  her  to  demand  them  back 
from  them  by  sacrifice  (Prajdpatir  vai  prajdh  srijamdno  'tapyata  \ 
tdsmdt  srdntdt  tepdndt  S'rir  udakrdmat  \  sd  dipyamdnd  bhrdjamdnd 
leldyantl  atishthat  \  tarn  dipyamdndm  bhrdjamdndm  leldyantlm  devdh 
abhyadhydyan  \  2.  Te  Prajdpatim  alruvan  "  handma  imam  d  idam 
asydh  daddmahai"  iti  \  sa  ha  uvdcha  "  strl  vai  esM  yat  S'rih  \  na  vai 
str'iyam  ghnanti  uta  tvd  asydh  jivantydh  eva  ddadata  "  iti  \  3.  Tasydh 
Agnir  ainddyam  ddatta  Somo  rdjyam  Varunah  sdjnrdjyain  Mitrah  ksha- 
tram  Indro  balam  Brihaspatir  brahmavarchasam  Savitd  rdshtram  Pushd 
bhagam  Sarasvati  pushtim  Tvash^d  rupdni  \  4.  Sd  Prajdpatim  abravlt 
"  d  vai  me  idam  adishata"  iti  \  sa  ha  uvdcha  "  yajnena  endn  punar 
ydchasva"  iti). 

» 

520  Lelayantl.    As  fixing  the  sense  of  this  word  Professor  Aufrecht  refers  me  to 

S'atap.  Br.  p.  136  ;  Brihad  Aranyaka  Tip.  p.  737 ;  Mundaka  Up.  pp.  274,  276  ;  and 
S'vetas'vatara  Up.  p.  332.  » 


350 


SECTION  ,XXI. 

PROGRESS  OF  THE  VEDIC  RELIGION  TOWARDS  ABSTRACT 
CONCEPTIONS  OF  THE  DEITY.*" 

In  a  passage  which  I  have  already  quoted  above  (p.  8),  Yaska,  the 
author  of  the  Mrukta,  informs  us  (vii.  5)  that  previous  writers  of  the 
school  to  which  he  himself  belonged  (the  Nairuktas)  reduced  the 
deities  mentioned  in  the  Yedas  to  three,  viz.,  "Agni,  whose  place  is 
on  the  earth ;  Yayu  or  Indra,  whose  place  in  the  air ;  and  .Surya, 
whose  place  is  in  the  sky ;  "  and  asserted  that  "  these  deities  severally 
receive  many  appellations  in  consequence  of  their  greatness,  or  of  the 
diversity  of  their  functions,  as  the  names  of  hotri,  adhvaryu,  brahman, 
and  udgdtri,  are  applied  to  one  and  the  same  person  [according  to  the 
particular  sacrificial  office  which  he  happens  to  be  fulfilling]."  In  the 
preceding  section  (vii.  4)  Yaska  had,  however,  declared  that,  in  reality, 
' '  owing  to  the  greatness  of  the  deity,  the  one  Soul  is  celebrated  as  if  it 
were  many.  The  different  gods  are  separate  members  of  the  one  Soul. 
And  some  say  that  the  rishis  address  their  praises  according  to  the 
multiplicity  of  natures  in  the  [celestial]  existences.  And  from  the  uni- 
versality of  their  nature  the  gods  are  mutually  produced  from  each 
other,  and  possess  the  natures  of  one  another  (see  K.Y.  x.  7,  4  f.  above, 
p.  48,  and  Nir.  xi.  23,  quoted  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  Work,  p.  11)  ; 
they  are  produced  from  works ;  they  are  produced  from  soul.  It  is 
soul  that  is  their  chariot,  soul  their  horses,  soul  their  weapon,  soul 
their  arrows ;  soul  is  a  god's  all "  522  (mdhdtmydd  devatdydh  elcah  dtmd 
lahudhd  stuyate  \  elcasya  dtmano  'nye  devdh  pratyangdni  Ihavanti  \  api 
cha  sattvdndm  pralcriti-lhiimalhir  rishayah  stuvanti'  ity  dhuh  \  prakriti- 
sdrvandmnydch  cha  itaretara-janmdno  hhavanti  itaretara-prakritayah 

521  In  various  parts"  of  the  translations  occurring  in  this  section  I  received  valuable 
assistance  from  Professor  Aufrecht. 

422  This  passage  is  quoted  at  length  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  Work,  pp.  131-136. 


PEOGEESS  OF  THE  VEDIC  EELIGION.  351 

Itarmajanmdnah  dtmajanmdnah   \   dtmd  eva  eshdm  ratho  bhavaty  dtmd 
asvdh   dtmd   dyudham   dtmd  ishavah  dtmd   sarvam  devasya).     These, 
however,  are  the  views  of  men  who  lived  after  the  compilation  of  the 
Brahmanas,  at  a  period  when  reflection  had  long  been  exercised  upon 
the  contents  of  the  hymns,  and  when  speculation  had  already  made 
considerable  advances.    In  the' oldest  portions  of  the  hymns  themselves 
we  discover  few  traces  of  any  s«ch  abstract  conceptions  of  the  Deity. 
They  disclose  a  much  more  primitive  stage  of  religious  belief.     They 
are,  as  I  have  already  remarked,  the  productions  of  simple  men  who, 
under  the  influence  of  the  most  impressive  phenomena  of  nature,  saw 
everywhere  the  presence  and  agency  of  divine  powers,  who  imagined 
that  each  of  the  great  provinces  of  the  universe  was   directed  and 
animated  by  its  own  separate  deity,  and  who  had  not  yet  risen  to  a 
clear  idea  of  one  supreme  creator  and  governor  of  all  things  (pp.  5  f.). 
This  is  ^hown,  not  only  by  the  special  functions  assigned  to  particular 
gods,  but  in  many  cases  by  the  very  names  which  they  bear,  corres- 
ponding to  those  of  some  of  the  elements  or  of  the  celestial  luminaries. 
Thus,  according  to  the  belief  of  the  ancient  rishis,  Agni  was  the  divine 
being  who  resides  and  operates  in  fire,  Surya  the  god  who  dwells  and 
shines  in  the  sun,  and  Indra  the  regent  of  the  atmosphere,  who  cleaves 
the  clouds  with  his  thunderbolts  and  dispenses  rain.     While,  however, 
in  most  parts  of  the  Rig-veda,  we  not  only  find  that  such  gods  as  Agni, 
Indra,  and  Surya  are  considered  as  distinct  from  one  another,  but  that 
various  other  divinities,  more  or  less  akin  to  these,  but  thought  of  as 
fulfilling  functions  in  some  respects  distinguishable  from  theirs  (such 
as  Parjanya,  Yishnu,  Savitri,  Piishan,  etc.)  are  represented  as  existing 
along  side  of*  them,  there  are  other  hymns  in  which  a  tendency  to  iden- 
tification is  perceptible,  and  traces  are  found  of  one  uniform  power 
being  conceived  to  underlie  the  various  manifestations  of  divine  energy. 
Thus  in  the  texts  quoted  in  a  former  section  (pp.  206  if.),  Agni  is  repre- 
sented as  having  a  threefold  existence,  by  which  may  be  intended, 
first,  in  his  familiar  form  on   earth  ;    secondly,  as  lightning  in  the 
atmosphere;  and  thirdly,  as  the  sun  in  tl)£  heavens.     In  other  pas- 
sages, where  the  same  god  is  identified  with  Vishnu,  Varuna,  Mitra, 
etc.  (see  p.  219),  it  is  not  clear  whether  this  identification  may  not 
arise  from  a  desire  to  magnify  Agni  rather  than  from  any  idea  of  his 
essential  oneness  with  other  deities  with  whom  he  is  connected  (see 


352  PROGRESS  OF  THE  VEDIC  RELIGION. 

also  R.V.  i.  141,  9  ;  v.  3,  1  f. ;  v.  13,  6).  In  another  hymn,  iv.  42, 
3,  too,  where  Indra  appears  to  be  represented  as  the  same  with  Varuna 
(aham  Indro  Varunah,  etc. ;  compare  the  context),  the  design  of  the 
writer  may  have  been  to  place  the  former  god  on  a  footing  of  equality 
with  the  latter.  There  are,  however,  other  passages  in  the  earlier  books 
of  the  Big-veda  which  suffice  to  show  th'at  the  writers  had  begun  to  re- 
gard the  principal  divinities  as  something  more  than  mere  representa- 
tives or  regents  of  the  different  provinces  of  nature.  As  I  have  already 
shown  (pp.  61  ff.,  98  ff.,  158,  163  f.,  214  f.),  Varuna,  Indra,  Surya, 
Savitri,  and  Agni  are  severally  described  (in  strains  more  suitable  to 
the  supreme  deity  than  to  subaltern  divinities  exercising  a  limited  do- 
minion) as  having  formed  and  as  sustaining  heaven  and  earth,  and  as 
the  rulers  of  the  universe ; 623  and  Varuna,  in  particular,  according  to 
the  striking  representation  of  the  hymn  preserved  in  the  A.V.  (iv.  16) 
(though  this  composition  may  be  of  a  somewhat  later  date),  is  invested 
with  the  divine  prerogatives  of  omnipresence  and  omniscience.  Al- 
though the  recognized  co-existence  ,of  all  these  deities  is  inconsistent 
with  the  supposition  that  their  worshippers  had  attained  to  any  clear 
comprehension  of  the  unity  of  the  godhead,  and  although  the  epithets 
denoting  universal  dominion,  which  are  lavished  upon  them  all  in  turn, 
may  be  sometimes  hyperbolical  or  complimentary — the  expressions  of 
momentary  fervour,  or  designed  to  magnify  a  particular  deity  at  the 
expense  of  all  other  rival  objects  of  adoration, — yet  these  descriptions  no 
doubt  indicate  enlarged  and  sublime  conceptions  of  divine  power,  and 
an  advance  towards  the  idea  of  one  sovereign  deity.  When  once  the 
notion  of  particular  gods  had  become  expanded  in  the  manner  just 
specified,  and,  had  risen  to  an  ascription  of  all  divine  attributes  to  the 
particular  object  of  worship  who  was  present  for  the  time  to  the  mind  of 
the  poet,  the  further  step  would  speedily  be  taken  of  speaking  of  the 
deity  under  such  new  names  as  Visvakarman  and  Prajapati,  appella- 
tions which  do  not  designate  any  limited  function  connected  with  any 
single  department  of  nature,  but  the  more  general  and  abstract  notion 
of  divine  power  operating-  in  the  production  ana  government  of  the 
universe. 

It  is,  perhaps,  in  names  such  as  these  that  we  may  discover  the  point 

6-3  The  same  functions  are  ascribed  to  Vishnu  and  to  Rudra.     See  the  4th  vol.  of 
this  "Work,  pp.  84  and  338. 


TEXTS  OF  A  MONOTHEISTIC  OR  PANTHEISTIC  CHARACTER.     353 

of  transition  from  polytheistic  to  monotheistic  ideas.  Both  these  two 
terms,  which  ultimately  came  to  designate  the  deity  regarded  as  the 
creator,  had  been  originally  used  as  epithets  of  Indra  and  Savitri,  in 
the  following  passages : — R.Y.  iv.  53,  2,  "  Savitri,  the  supporter  of 
the  sky  and  the  lord  of  creatures "  (divo  dhartta  Ihuvanasya  praja- 
patih].Ki  viii.  87,  2,  "Thou,  Indra,  art  most  powerful;  thou  hast 
caused  the  sun  to  shine ;  thou  art  great,  the  universal  architect,  and 
possessest  all  godlike  attributes"  (tvam  Indra  abhibhur  asi  tvam  suryam 
arochayah  \  visvakarmd  visvadevo  mahdn  asi}.5 


525 


(1)  Texts  of  a  more  decidedly  monotheistic  or  pantheistic  character. 

I  shall  now  adduce  those  passages  of  the  Eig-veda  in  which  a  mono- 
theistic or  a  pantheistic  tendency  is  most  clearly  manifested.  Of  some 
of  these  texts  I  shall  only  state  the  substance,  as  I  have  formerly 
treated  of  them  in  detail  elsewhere. 

The  following  verse  from  a  long  hymn  of  an  abstruse  and  mystical 
character  (i.  164,  46,  as  already  quoted  in  p.  219,  note),  though  con- 
sidered by  Yaska  (Nir.  vii.  18)  to  have  reference  to  Agni,  and  by 
Katyayana  and  Sayana  (who,  however,  also  quotes  Yaska's  opinion)  to 
have  Surya  in  view,  may  nevertheless  be  held  to  convey  the  more 
general  idea  that  all  the  gods,  though  differently  named  and  repre- 
sented, are  in  reality  one — TroXAwf  ovoparwv  f*>op<f>r)  ftia '  "  They 
call  him  Indra,  Mitra,  Varuna,  Agni;  and  (he  is)  the  celestial,  well- 
winged  Garutmat.  Sages  name  variously  that  which  is  but  one :  they 
call  it  Agni,  Yama,  Matarisvan." 52S  (See  Colebrooke's  Essay,  i.  26  f. ; 
"Weber's  Inji.  Stud.  v.  p.  iv.)  ,  • 

e24  So,  too,  Soma  is  called  prajapati,  "lord  of  creatures"  (R.V.  ix.  5,  9). 

525  So,  too,  in  R.V.  x.  170,  4,  Surya  is  called  visvakarman  and  visvadevyavat,  and 
Savitri  is  styled  vi&vadeva  in  v.  82,  7,  see  above,  p.  164.     Svayambhu,  "the  aelf- 
existent,"  occcurs  as  an  epithet  of  Manyu  (personified  Wrath)  in  R.V.  x.  83,  4.     See 
below  the  sub-section  on  Kala,  Time.  , 

526  To  the  same  effect  is  another  text,  R.V.  x.  114,  5 :  Suparnam  viprah  Jcavayo 
vachobhir  ekam  santam  bahudha  kalpayanti  \  "  The  w^e  in  their  hymns  represent 
under  many  forms  the  well-winged  (deity),  who  is  but  one."     Somewhat  in  the 
same  way  it  is  said,  A.V.  xiii.  3,  »13   (already  quoted  in  p.  219,  note)  :    "Agni 
becomes  in  the  evening  Varuna  (the  god  of   night),  and  Mitifc,  when  rising  in 
the  morning.     Becoming  Savitri,  he  moves  through  the  atmosphere,  and  becoming 
Indra,  he  burns  along  the  middle  of  the  sky."     In  xiii.  4,  1  ff.,  Savitri  is  identified 
with  a  great  many  other  deities.     The  words  asya  devasya  ....  vayah  Vishnoh,  in 

23 


354  VISTAKARMAN. 

R.V.  i.  89,  10  (quoted  above  in  pp.  43  f.),  suggests,  on  the  other 
hand,  a  pantheistic  sense,  as  it  asserts  all  things  to  be  the  mani- 
festations of  one  all-pervading  principle  :  "Aditi  is  the  sky,  Aditi  is 
the  air,  Aditi  is  the  mother  and  father  and  son.  Aditi  is  all  the  gods 
and  the  five  classes  of  men.  Aditi  is  whatever  has  been  born.  Aditi 
is  whatever  shall  be  born." 627  Reference  will  be  again  made  further 
on  to  the  hymn  in  which  Aditi  is  described  as  onetof  the  great  powers 
to  which  the  creation  is  due. 

In  some  of  the  representations  of  the  character  and  functions  of 
Tvashtri,  the  divine  artizan,  who  shaped  the  heaven  and  earth,  we 
have  an  approach  to  the  idea  of  a  supreme  creator  of  the  universe 
(see  above  p.  225). 

There  is  considerable  variety  in  the  methods  by  which  the  later 
poets  of  the  R.V.  attempt  to  conceive  and  express  the  character  of 
the  Supreme  Being  and  his  relations  to  the  universe,  as  will  be  seen 
from  the  following  details : — 

(2)  ViScalcarman. 

The  81st  and  82nd  hymns  of  the  tenth  book  of  the  Eig-veda  are 
devoted  to  the  celebration  of  Visvakarman,  the  great  architect  of  the 
universe  (see  above,  p.  32,  and  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  4  ff.) ; 
so  that  the  word  which,  as  we  have  seen,  had  formerly  been  used  as 
an  epithet  of  Indra,  had  now  become  the  name  of  a  deity,  if  not  of  the 
Deity.  In  these  hymns  Yisvakarman  is  represented  as  the  one  all- 
seeing  god,  who  has  on  every  side  eyes,  faces,  arms,  and  feet,  who, 
when  producing  heaven  and  earth,  blows528  them  forth  with  his  arms 

R.V.  vii.  40,  f,  are  interpreted  by  Sayana  to  mean  "  [The  other  gods]  are  branches 
of  this  ....  god  VishrAi ; "  but  the  words  between  brackets  are  not  in  the  original. 
In  R.V.  ii.  35,  8,  all  other  beings  are  said  to  be  branches  of  Apamnapat  (vayah  id 
anya  bhuvanani  asya).  I  observe  that  in  his  lectures  on  the  "  Science  of  Language," 
2nd  series,  p.  508,  Professor  Miiller  understands  the  words  with  which  all  the  verses 
of  R.V.  iii.  55,  conclude  (mahad  devanam  asuratvam  ekani)  to  signify,  "  The  great 
divinity  of  the  gods  is  one,"  which  might  be  understood  as  if  they  asserted  all  the 
gods  to  be  manifestations  of  one  supreme  deity.  The  clause,  however,  need  not 
mean  anything  more  than  tliat  the  divine  power  of  the  gtds  is  unique. 

627  Compare  -iEschylus,  fragment  443,  translated  by  Professor  M  iiller,  "  Science  of 
Language,"  ii.  441  :  Zeus  {'OTIC  ai9rip,  Ztiis  Se  7^,  Zei/y  5'  ovpav6<;-  Zevs  rot  ra  irdfra 
X&TI  r  aicS1  vTrfpf-(poi>.  'I  he  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  12,  3,  1,  says  that  the  self-existent 
Brahma  is  "son,  father,  and  mother."  ' 

623  This  image  is  repeated  in  R.V.  x.  72,  and  may  have  been  borrowed  from 
R.V.  iv.  2,  17. 


BRAHMANASPATI,  DAKSHA,  AND  ADITI.  355 

and  wings, — as  the  father,  generator,  disposer,  who  knows  all  worlds, 
gives  the  gods  their  names,  and  is  beyond  the  comprehension  of 
mortals.  In  one  of  the  verses  (the  4th)  of  the  first  of  these  hymns, 
the  poet  asks  :  "  What  was  the  forest,  what  was  the  tree,  out  of  which 
they  fashioned  heaven  and  earth  ?  Inquire  with  your  minds,  ye  sages, 
what  was  that  on  which  he  took  his  stand  when  supporting  the 
world  ? "  This  ver,se  is  repeated  in  the  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  8,  9,  6  (and 
comes  in  immediately  after  the  end  of  R.V.  x.  129,  which  is  quoted  in 
the  same  place).  The  compiler  of  the  Brahmana  replies  to  the  question 
which  the  original  poet  had  left  unanswered,  by  saying  :  "  Brahma 
was  the  forest,  Brahma  was  that  tree,  out  of  which  they  fashioned 
heaven  and  earth.  Sages,  with  my  mind  I  declare  to  you,  he  took  his 
stand  upon  Brahma  when  upholding  the  world"  (see  above,  p.  32, 
note  57). 

(3)  Hiranyagarbha. 

Another  name  under  which  the  Deity  is  celebrated  in  the  Big-veda, 
with  all  the  attributes  of  supremacy,  is  Hiranyagarbha.  In  the  121st 
hymn  of  the  tenth  book  this  god  is  said  to  have  arisen  (samavarttata) 
in  the  beginning,  the  one  lord  of  all  beings,  who  tipholds  heaven  and 
earth,  who  gives  life  and  breath,  whose  command  even  the  gods  obey, 
who  is  the  god  over  all  gods,  and  the  one  animating  principle  (asu)  of 
their  being.  (See  the  4th  vol.  of  this  Work,  pp.  13  ff.) 

(4)  JSrahmanaspati,  Daksha,  and  Aditi. 

In  another  hymn  (R.V.  x.  72 ;  already  quoted  in  pp.  48  f.),  the 
creation  of  the  gods  is  ascribed  to  Brahmanaspati  (see  ^Iso  p.  280, 
above),  who  blew  them  forth  like  a  blacksmith  ; 529  while  the  earth  is 
said  to  have  sprung  from  a  being  called  TJttanapad ;  and  Daksha  and 
Aditi  were  produced  from  one  another  by  mutual  generation.  The 
gods,  though  formed  by  Brahmanaspati,  did  not,  it  is  said,  come  into 
existence  till  after  Aditi,  but  appear  to  have  had  some  share  in  ths 
formation  or  development  of  the  world.  , 

The  hymn  is  almost  entirely  of  a  mythological  character,  the  only 
attempt  at  speculation  it  contains  being  the  declaration  that  entity 
sprang  from  nonentity.  The  manner  in  which  the  author  endeavours, 

629  See  pp.  32  and  354. 


356  NONENTITY,  ENTITY,  AND  THE  ONE. 

by  the  introduction  of  different  names,  and  the  ascription  to  them  of 
various  agencies,  to  explain  the  process  of  creation,  forms  a  striking 
contrast  to  the  sublime  vagueness  and  sense  of  mystery  which  char- 
acterize the  following  composition  (R.V.  x.  129).530 

(5)  Nonentity,  Entity,  and  the  One,  E.V.  x.  129. 

(, 

1.  No,  asad  dsld  no  sad  dslt  taddnlm  ndsld  raj'o  no  vyoma  paro  yat  \ 
kirn  dvarivah  kuha  kasya  sarmann  ambhah  kim  dsld  gahanam  gabhlram  \ 

2.  Na  mrityur  asld  amritam  na  tarhi  na  rdtrydh  ahnah  dslt  praketah  \ 
dntd  avdtam  svadhayd  tad  ekam  tasmdd  ha  anyad  na  parah  kinchandsa  \ 

3.  Tamah  dslt  tamasd  gulham  agre  apraketam  salilam  sarvam  d  idam  \ 
tuchhyena  dbhu  apihitam  yad  dslt   tapasas  tad  mahind  'jayataikam  \ 

4.  Kdmas  tad  agre  samavarttatddhi  manaso  retail  prathamam  yad  dslt  \ 
sato  bandhum   asati  niravindan  hridi  pratlshya  kavayo   manlshd  \   5 
(=Vaj.  Sanh.  xxxiii.  74).  Tiraschlno  vitato  rasmir  esTidm  adhah  svid 
dsld  upari  svid  dslt  \  retodhdh  dsan  mahimdnah  dsan  svadhd  avastdt 
prayatih  parastdt  \  6.  Ko  addha  veda  kah  iha  pra  vochat  kutah  djdtd 
kutah  iyam  visrishtih  \  arvdg  devuh  asya  visarjanena  atha  ko  veda  yatah 
alabhuva  \  7.  Iyam  visrishtir  yatah  ababhuva  yadi  vd  dadhe  yadi  vd  na  \ 
yo  asyddhyakshah  parame  vyornan  so  anga  veda  yadi  vd  na  veda  \ 

"  1.  There  was  then  neither  nonentity  nor  entity  :    there  was  no 

530  This  hymn  has  been  already  translated  by  Mr.  Colebrooke  and  Professor  Miiller, 
as  well  as  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  Work,  p.  4.  I  have  now  endeavoured  to  improve 
my  own  version,  and  otherwise  to  illustrate  the  sense  of  the  hymn.  The  following 
is  a  metrical  rendering  of  its  contents  : — 

"  Then  there  was  neither  Aught  nor  Nought,  no  air  nor  sky  beyond. 

What  Covered  all  ?    Where  rested  all  ?     In  watery  gulf  profound  ? 

Nor  death  was  then,  nor  deathlessness,  nor  change  of  night  and  day. 

That  One  breathed  calmly,  self-sustained ;  nought  else  beyond  It  lay. 

Gloom  hid  in  gloom  existed  first — one  sea,  eluding  view. 

That  One,  a  void  in  chaos  wrapt,  by  inward  fervour  grew. 

Within  It  first  arose  desire,  the  primal  germ  of  mind, 

Which  nothing  with  existence  links,  as  sages  searching  find. 

The  kindling  ray  that  shot  across  the  dark  and  drear  abyss, — 

Was  it  beneath  ?  or  bigh  aloft  ?    What  bard  can  answer  this  ? 

There  fecundating  powers  were  found,  and  mighty  forces  strove, — 

A  self-supporting  mass  beneath,  and  energy  above. 

Who  know.^  who  ever  told,  fr»m  whence  this  vast  creation  rose  ? 

No  gods  had  then  been  born, — who  chen  can  e'er  the  truth  disclose  ? 

Whence  sprang  this  world,  and  whether  framed  by  hand  divine  or  no, — 

It's  lord  in  heaven  alone  can  tell,  if  even  he  can  show." 


NONENTITY,  ENTITY,  AND  THE  ONE.  357 

atmosphere,  nor  sky  above.  What  enveloped  [all]  ?  Where,  in  the 
receptacle  of  what  [was  it  contained]  ?  Was  it  water,  the  profound 
abyss  ?  2.  Death  was  not  then,  nor  immortality :  there  was  no  dis- 
tinction of  day  or  night.  That  One 531  breathed  calmly,  self-supported  ; 
there  was  nothing  different  from,  or  above,  it.  3".  In  the  beginning 
darkness  existed,  enveloped  in  darkness.  All  this  was  undistinguish- 
able  water.532  That  One  which  l&y  void,  and  wrapped  in  nothingness, 
was  developed  by  the  power  of  fervour.  4.  Desire  first  arose  in  It, 
which  was  the  primal  germ  of  mind ;  [and  which]  sages,  searching 
with  their  intellect,  have  discovered  in  their  heart  to  be  the  bond 
which  connects  entity  with  nonentity.  5.  The  ray  [or  cord]533  which 
stretched  across  these  [worlds],  was  it  below  or  was  it  above  ?  There 
were  there  impregnating  powers  and  mighty  forces,  a  self-supporting 
principle  beneath,  and  energy  aloft.534  6.  Who  knows,  who  here  can 
declare,  whence  has  sprung,  whence,  this  creation  ?  The  gods  are 
subsequent 535  to  the  development  of  this  [universe] ;  who  then  knows 
whence  it  arose  ?  7.  From  what  this  creation  arose,  and  whether  [any 
one]  made  it  or  not, — he  who  in  the  highest  heaven  is  its  ruler,  he 
verily  knows,  or  [even]  he  does  not  know." 

I  am  not  in  possession  of  Sayana's  commentary  on  this  hymn ;  but 
the  scholiast  on  the  Taittiriya  Brahmana  (see  also  the  explanation  of 
verse  4,  in  commentary  on  Taitt.  Arany.  p.  142)  in  which  the  hymn  is 

531  Compare  E.V.  i.  164,  6,  "What  was  that  One?  in  the  form  of  the  unborn  which 
supported  these  six  worlds  ?"  (vi  yas  tastambha  shal  ima  rajamsi  ajasya  rupe  Jcim  apt 
svid  ekam).     In  Valakhilya,  x.  2,  it  is  said :   eka  evagnir  bahudha  samiddah  ekah 
suryo  visvam  anu  prabhutah  \  ekaivoshah  sarvam  idam  vi  bhati  ekam  vai  idam  vi 
babhuva  sarvam  J  "  There  is  one  Agni,  kindled  in  many  places ;  one  mighty  Surya 
who  extends^ver  all  things  ;  one  TJshas  who  illuminates  this*entire  world ; — this  one 
has  been  developed  into  the  all." 

532  In  the  M.  Bh.  S'antip.  6812  ff.,  it  is  said  that  from  the  aether  "was  produced 
water,  like   another  darkness   in  darkness ;    and  from  the  foam  of  the  water  was 
produced  the  wind  "  (tatah  salilam  utpannam  tamaslvaparam  tamah  \  tasmach  cha 
salilotpldad  ttdatishthata  marutah). 

533  Professor  Aufrecht  has  suggested  to  me  that  the  word  rasmi  may  have  here  tile 
sense  of  thread,  or  cord,  anS  not  of  ray. 

634  Does  this  receive  any  illustration  from  R.V.  i.  159,  2  (quoted  above,  p.  21)> 
which  speaks  of  the  "thought  (mamas')  of  the  father"  (Dyaus),  and  of  the  "mighty 
independent  power  (mahi  svatavas)  of  the  mother  "  (Earth)  ?        % 

635  Compare  x.  72,  2,  3,  quoted  above^  p.  48,  and  x.  97,  1,  where  certain  plants 
are  said  to  be  anterior  to  the  gods,  by  three  yugas  (yaA  oshadhlh  purvah  jatah 
devebhyas  triyugam  pura). 


358  NONENTITY,  ENTITY,  AND  THE  ONE. 

repeated  (ii.  8,  9,  3  ff.),  explains  it  in  conformity  with  the  philo- 
sophical ideas  of  a  later  period.  From  such  sources  we  have  no  right 
in  general  to  expect  much  light  on  the  real  meaning  of  the  ancient 
Vedic  poets.  The  commentator  in  question,  who  is  obliged  to  find  in 
the  words  of  the  infallible  Veda  a  meaning  consistent  with  the  specu- 
lations believed  to  be  orthodox  in  his  own  age,  interprets  the  first  verse 
as  follows,  in  terms  which,  indeed,1  after  all,  m?y  not  be  far  from 
correctly  expressing  its  general  purport :  Yadd  purvasrishtih  prallnd 
uttarasrishtis  cha  na  utpannd  taddnlm  sadasatl  dve  api  ndlhutdm  \ 
ndmarupavisishtatvena  spashtapratlyamdnam  jagat  "  sat-"  saldena  uchyate 
naravishdnddisamdnam  sunyam  "asad"  ity  uchyate  \  tadulhayam  ndslt  \ 
Icintu  Icdchid  avyalttdvasthd  dslt  \  so.  cha  vispashatvdlhavdd  na  satljagad- 
utpddakatvena  sadbhdvdd  ndpy  asatl  \  "In  the  interval  between  the 
absorption  of  the  previous,  and  the  production  of  the  subsequent, 
creation,  there  was  neither  entity  nor  nonentity.  The  world  at  the 
time  when,  by  possessing  both  'name'  and  'form,'536  it  is  clearly 
manifested,  is  designated  by  the  word  'entity,'  while  a  void  which 
may  be  compared  to  such  non-existing  things  as  a  '  man's  horns,'  etc., 
is  called  '  nonentity.'  Neither  of  these  states  existed  ;  but  there  was  a 
certain  unapparent  condition,  which,  from  the  absence  of  distinctness, 
was  not  an  '  entity,'  while  from  its  being  the  instrument  of  the  world's 
production,  it  was  not  a  '  nonentity.'  " 

A  much  older  commentary  on  this  verse,  probably  one  of  the  oldest 
extant,  is  the  following  passage  from  the  S'atap.  Br.  x.  5,  3,  1 :  na 
iva  vai  idam  agre  asad  dsld  na  iva  sad  dslt  \  dsld  iva  vat  idam  agre  na 
iva  dslt  \  tad  ha  tad  manah  eva  dsa  \  2.  Tasmdd  etad  rishind  'bhyanuktam 
11  na  asad  d'Jld  no  s,id  dslt  taddnlm  "  iti  \  na  iva  hi  sad  mrno  na  iva 
asat  |  3.  Tad  idam  manah  srishtam  dviralubhushad  niruktataram  mur- 
tataram  \  tad  dtmdnam  anvaichhat  \  tat  tapo  'tapyata  \  tat  prdmurchhat  \ 
tat  shattrimsatam  sahasrdny  apasyad  dtmano  'gnin  arkdn  manomaydn 
manaschitah  ityddi  \  "In  the  beginning  this  [universe]  was  not 
either,  as  it  were,  nonexistent,  nor,  as  it  we^re,  existent.  In  the 

636  These  Vedantic  terms  name  and  form  occur  (as  observed  in  the  Section  on 
Yama,  p.  309)  in  the  Atharva-veda,  x.  2, 12  :  "Who  placed  in  him  (Purusha)  name, 
magnitude,  and  fom  ?  "  and  in  xi.  7,  1  :  "  In  the  remains  of  the  sacrifice  (uchhishta) 
name  and  form,  in  the  remains  of  the  sacrifice  the  world,  is  comprehended."  The 
original  texts  will  be  found  further  on  in  the  subsections  on  Purusha  and  Uchhishta. 
See  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  2,  3,  1  ff.,  to  be  quoted  below,  in  the  subsection  on  Brahma. 


NONENTITY,  ENTITY,  AND  THE  ONE.  359 

beginning  this  universe  was,  as  it  were,  and  was  not,  as  it  were. 
Then  it  was  only  that  mind.  Wherefore  it  has  been  declared  by  the 
rishi  (in  the  verse  before  us),  '  There  was  then  neither  nonentity 
nor  entity ; '  for  mind  was,  as  it  were,  neither  entity  nor  non- 
entity. 2.  Then  this  mind,  being  developed,  wished  to  become  mani- 
fested, more  revealed,  more  embodied.  It  sought  after  itself;  it 
practised  austere  fervour.  It  svs»ooned.  It  beheld  36,000  of  its  own 
fires,  suns,  formed  of  mind,  placed  by  mind,  etc."  Mind  then  creates 
voice,  voice  creates  breath,  breath  creates  eye,  eye  creates  ear,  ear 
creates  work  (or  ceremony),  and  work  creates  fire. 

These  ideas  of  entity  and  nonentity  ra7  seem  to  have  been  familiar  to 
the  later  Vedic  poets,  as  in  E.  V.  x.  72  (noticed  above,  and  translated  in 
the  section  on  Aditi,  p.  48),  we  find  it  thus  declared  (verses  2,  3),  that 
in  the  beginning  nonentity  was  the  source  of  entity:  "In  the  earliest 
age  of  the  gods  entity  sprang  from  nonentity ;  in  the  first  age  of  the 
gods  entity  sprang  from  nonentity."  In  the  A.V.  x.  7,  10  (which 
will  be  quoted  in  the  subsection,  on  Skambha),  it  is  said  that  both 
nonentity  and  entity538  exist  within  the  god  Skambha;  and  in  verse 
25  of  the  same  hymn:  "Powerful  indeed  are  those  gods  who  sprang 
from  nonentity.  Men  say  that  that  nonentity  is  one,  the  highest, 
member  of  Skambha."  533  The  Taittiriya  TJpanishad  also  (Bibliotheca 
Indica,  p.  99)  quotes  a  verse  to  the  effect :  "  This  was  at  first  non- 
entity. From  that  sprang  entity  "  (asad  vai  idam  agre  dslt  \  tato  vai 
sad  qjayata). 

The  author  of  the  Chhandogya  TJpanishad  probably  alludes  to  some 
of  these  texts  when  he  says  (vi.  2,  1  f.  Bibl.  Ind.  p.  387  f.):  Sad  eva 
somya  idajn  agre  asld  ekam  eva  advitiyam  \  tad  ha  eke  atyr  "asad  eva 

637  The  Taitt.  Arany.  i.  11,  1  (Bibl.  Ind.  p.  84),  ascribes  the  development  of  ex- 
istence from  nonexistence  to  the  seven  rishis,  etc.  (asatah  sad  ye  tatakshur  rishayah 
sapta  Atfis  cha  yat  \  sarve  trayo  Agastyas  cha}. 

sss  Another  verse  of  the  A.V.  xvii.  1,  19,  says  :  "  Entity  is  founded  (pratishthitam) 
on  nonentity ;  what  has  become  (bhuta)  is  founded  on  entity.  What  has  become  is 
based  (ahitam)  on  what  is  to  be,  and  what  is  to  be  is  founded  on  what  has  become  " 
(asati  sat  pratishthitam  sati  bhutam  pratishthitatft  I  bhutam  ha  bhavye  dhitam 
bhavyam  bhute  pratishthitam}. 

639  This  phrase  (see  above,  p.  5f)  is  also  applied  to  Agni  in  R.V.  x.  5,  7,  where  it  is 
said  that  that  god,  being  "  a  thing  both,  asat,  nonexistent  (i.e.  unmanifested),  and  sat, 
existent  (i.e.  in  a  latent  state,  or  in  ess'ence),  in  the  highest  heaven,  in  the  creation  of 
Daksha,  and  in  the  womb  of  Aditi  (comp.  R.V.  x.  72,  4f.),  became  in  a  former  age 


360  NONENTITY,  ENTITY,  AND  THE  ONE. 

idam  agre  dsld  ekam  eva  advitlyam  tasmdd  asatah  saj  jdyeta"  \  2.  Kutas 
tu  khalu  somya  evaih  sydd  iti  ha  uvdcha  Icatham  asatah  saj  jdyeta  iti  \ 
sat  tv  eva  somya  idam  agre  dsld  elcam  eva  advitlyam  \  tad  aikshata  bahu 
sydm  prajdyeya  iti  \  "  This,  o  fair  youth,  was  in  the  beginning  ex- 
istent (or  entity)  (sat},  one  without  a  second.  Now  some  say,  '  This 
was  in  the  beginning  non-existent  (or  uon-entity)  (asaf),  one  without 
a  second ;  wherefore  the  existent  must  spring  from  the  non-existent.' 
2.  But  how,  o  fair  youth,  he  proceeded,  can  it  be  so  ?  How  can  the 
existent  spring  from  the  non-existent  ?  But,  o  fair  youth,  this  was  in 
the  beginning  existent,  one  without  a  second.  That  [entity]  thought, 
'Let  me  multiply  and  be  produced.'  "  54° 

There  does  not  appear  to  be  any  discrepancy  between  the  statement 
in  R.V.  x.  129,  1,  "  There  was  then  neither  nonentity  nor  entity,"  and 
the  doctrine  of  the  Chhandogya  Upanishad,  for  in  the  second  verse  of 
the  hymn,  also,  a  being  designated  as  the  One  is  recognized  as  existing, 
which  may  be  regarded  as  answering  to  the  primal  entity  of  the  Up- 
anishad; while  the  original  non-existence  of  anything,  whether  non- 
entity or  entity,  asserted  in  the  first  verse,  may  merely  signify,  as  the 
commentator  on  the  Taittiriya  Brahmana  explains,  that  there  was  as 
yet  no  distinct  manifestation  of  the  One.  In  like  manner  the  A.V.  x. 
7.  10,  25  (quoted  above),  does  not  assert  the  absolute  priority  of  non- 
entity, but  affirms  it  to  be  embraced  in,  or  a  member  of,  the  divine 
being  designated  as  Skambha.  The  Chhandogya  Upanishad  has,  how- 
ever, a  greater  appearance  of  being  at  variance  with  itself,  iii.  19,  1 
(asad  evedam  agre  dslt  tat  sad  dslt},  and  with  the  Taittiriya  Upanishad, 
as  well  as  with  verses  2  and  3  of  the  72nd  hymn  of  the  tenth  book  of 
the  R.Y.,  above  cited,  which  assert  that  entity  sprang  from  nonentity. 

6  n  '' 

If  these  verses  are  to  be  taken  literally  and  absolutely,  we  must 
suppose  the  poet  to  have  conceived  the  different  creative  agents  whom 
he  names,  Brahmanaspati,  Uttanapad,  Daksha,  and  Aditi,  to  have 
sprung  out  of  nothing,  or  from  each  other,  or  to  be  secondary  mani- 
festations of  the  entity  which  was  the  first  product  of  nonentity.  If, 
however,  with  the  commentators,  we  take  "nonentity"  to  denote 
merely  an  undeveloped  state,  there  will  be  no  contradiction. 

the  first-born  of  our  'fceremonial,  and  is  both  a.  bull  and  a  cow."     In  A.V.  xi.  7,  3,  it 
is  said  that  the  uchhishtha  (remains  of  the  sacrifice)  is  both  san  and  asan  (masculine) . 
540  See  English  trans,  p.  101,  which  I  have  not  followed. 


COURSE  OF  IDEAS  IN  HYMN,  R.V.  x.  129.  361 

The  first  movement  in  the  process  of  creation  as  conceived  in  the 
hymn  (R.V.  x.  129)  is  this  :  the  One,  which  in  the  beginning  breathed 
calmly,  self-sustained,  is  developed  by  the  power  of  tapas,  by  its  own 
inherent  heat  (as  Professor  Miiller  explains,  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  p.  561), 
or  by  rigorous  and  intense  abstraction  (as  Professor  Roth  understands 
the  word  ;  see  his  Lexicon,  s.1;.).511  This  development  gave  occasion 

541  Roth's  interpretetion  is  supported  by  a  text  in  the  A.V.  x.  7,  38  (see  further  on 
in  the  subsection  on  Skambha),  as  well  as  by  numerous  passage  in  the  Brahmanas. 
Thus  in  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  5,  8,  1  (quoted  in  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  4),  Prajapati, 
who  is  described  as  being  the  universe,  is  said  to  have  desired  (akamayata]  to  propa- 
gate himself,  and  to  have  striven  and  practised  rigorous  abstraction  (tapo  'tapyata}. 
And  in  the  same  Brahmana,  xiii.  7,  1,  1  (cited  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  25), 
the  self-existent  Brahma  himself  is  similarly  related  to  have  practised  tapas,  and 
when  he  found  that  that  did  not  confer  infinity,  to  have  offered  himself  in  sacrifice. 
The  gods  are  also  said  to  have  attained  heaven  and  their  divine  character  by  tapas 
(see  above,  p.  15,  and  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  20,  21,  24,  and  288).  Compare 
also  the  Taitt.  Up.  ii.  6,  where  it  is  said :  Sa  tapo  'tapyata  \  sa  tapas  taptva  idam 
sarvam  asrijata  yad  idam  kincha  \  "He  (the  supreme  Soul)  desired,  'Let  me  be 
multiplied  and  produced."  He  performed  tapas,  and  having  done  so,  he  created  all 
this."  In  his  commentary  on  this  passage,  S'ankara  explains  that,  in  confonnity  with 
another  Vedic  text,  knowledge  is  called  tapas,  and  that,  as  the  supreme  Soul  has  no 
unsatisfied  desires,  no  other  sense  would  be  suitable ;  and  that  the  phrase  means 
"He  reflected  upon  th"e  construction,  etc.,  of  the  world  which  was  being  created" 
(tapah  iti  jnanam  uchyate  \  " yasya  jnanamayaih  tapah"  iti  sruty-antarad  apta- 
kamatvach  cha  itarasya  asambhavah  eva  \  " sa  tapo  'tapyata"  tapas  taptavan 
srijyamana-jagad-rachanadi-vishayam  alochanam  akarod  atma  ity  arthaK).  It  is 
true  that  all  these  passages  from  the  Brahmanas  are  of  a  later  date  than  the 
hymn,  but  the  R.V.  itself,  x.  167,  1,  says  that  Indra  gained  heaven  by  tapas 
(see  above,  p.  14),  where  the  word  can  only  meafl  rigorous  abstraction.  The  word 
is  also  found  in  R.V.  ix.  113,  2,  where  soma-juice  is  said  to  be  poured  out  with 
hallowed  words,  truth,  faith,  and  tapas  (ritavakena  satyena  sraddhaya  tapasa  sutaK) ; 
and  in  x.  83,  2,  3,  where  Manyu  (wrath  personified)  is  besought  to  protect,  or  to 
slay  enemies,  aiong  with  tapas,  (tapasa  sajoshah,  or  tapasa  yuja).  This  view  of  the 
word  is  also  supported  by  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  12,  3,  1:  "Let  us  worship  with  an  obla- 
tion that  first-born  god,  by  whom  this  entire  universe  which  exists  is  surrounded 
(paribhutam) — the  self-existent  Brahma,  Avhich  is  the  highest  tapas.  He  is  son, 
father,  mother.  Tapas  was  produced  as  the  first  object"  (yenedam  vis'vam  paribhu- 
tam  yad  asti  prathamajam  devam  havisha  vidhema  \  svayambhu  Brahma  paramam 
tapo  yat  \  sa  eva  putrah  sa  pita  sa  mata  \  tapo  ha  yaksham  prathamam  sambabhuva). 
In  the  Mahabharata,  S'antiparva,  10836,  Prajilpati  is  said  to  have  created  living 
beings  by  tapas,  after  ha*.*ng  entered  on  religious  observances,  or  austerities  (vratani), 
Tapas  is  also  mentioned  as  the  source  from  which  creatures  were  produced,  A.V.  xiii. 
1,  10.  Compare  Bhagavata  Purana,  ii.  9,  6,  7,  19,  23,  and  iii.  10,  4  ff.  Tapas  is 
connected  with  an  oblation  of  boiled  milk  in  a  passage  of  the  A.V.  iv.  11,  6  :  yena 
devah  svar  aruruhur  hitva  sariram  jimritasya  nabhim  \  teila  geshma  sukritasya 
lokam  gharmasya  vratena  tapasa  yasasyavah  \  "  May  we,  renowned,  attain  to  the 
world  of  righteousness  by  that  ceremony  of  offering  boiled  milk,  by  tapas,  whereby  the 


362  COURSE  OF  IDEAS  IN  HYMN,  E.V.  x.  129. 

to  desire  (Kama)  which,  immediately  took  possession  of  the  One,  and  is 
described  as  the  first  germ  of  mind,  and  the  earliest  link M2  between 
nonentity  and  entity.  The  poet  then  goes  on  to  speak  of  impregnating 
powers,  and  mighty  forces,  of  receptive  capacities,  and  active  energies ; 
but  confesses  himself  unable  to  declare  how  the  universe  was  produced. 
The  gods  themselves  having  come  into1 'existence  at  a  later  stage  of 
creation,  were  not  in  a  position  to  idveal  to  their  worshippers  the 
earlier  part  of  the  process  of  which  they  had  not  been  witnesses.  The 


gods  ascended  to  heaven,  the  centre  of  immortality,  having  left  behind  their  hody." 
But  xi.  5,  5,  connects  tapas  with  heat :  "  The  Brahmacharin,  born  before  Brahma, 
dwelling  (or  clothed)  in  heat,  arose  through  tapas"  (purvo  jato  Brahmano  brahma- 
charl  gharmam  vasanas  tapasodatishthat.  In  A.V.  vii.  61,  tapas  is  connected  with 
Agni.  In  A.V.  xvii.  1,  24,  tapas  means  the  heat  of  the  sun.  Tapas  is  mentioned 
along  with  karman  in  A.V.  xi.  8,  2,  and  is  said  to  have  been  produced  from  it 
(ibid.  v.  6). 

542  The  commentator  on  the  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  8,  9,  5  (p.  928  of  Calcutta  edition,  in 
Bibl.  Ind.)  says :  kamasya  sarva-vyavahara-hetutvam  Vajasaneyinah  samamananti 
atho  khalvahuh  "  kamamayah  evayam  purjtshah  "  iti  \  Vyaso'pi  smarati  "  kama- 
bandhanam  evedam  nanyad  astlha  bandhanam "  iti  \  asmad-anubhave  'pi  tatha 
drisyate  \  sarvo  hi  purushah  prathamam  kinchit  kamayitva  tadartham  prayata- 
manah  sukham  duhkham  va  labheta  \  "The  Vajasaneyins  record  that  desire  is  the 
cause  of  all  action,  and  say  :  '  this  Purusha  is  himself  actuated  by  desire'  (Brihadar. 
Up.  p.  854).  And  Vyasa  too  declares  in  his  smriti,  '  That  which  binds  this  world  is 
desire  ;  it  has  no  other  bond.'  The  same  thing,  too,  is  seen  within  our  own  observa- 
tion ;  for  it  is  only  after  a  man  has  first  desired  something  that  he  will  strive  after  it, 
and  so  experience  pleasure  or  pain."  In  numerous  passages  of  the  Brahmanas  and 
Upanishads  (as  in  those  quoted  in  the  last  note),  we  are  told  that  the  first  step  in  the 
creation  was  that  Prajapati  or  Brahma  "desired"  (akamayata}.  In  his  remarks  on  the 
passage  of  the  Taittinya  Upanishad,  quoted  in  the  last  note,  S'ankara  considers  it 
necessary  to  explain  that  the  supreme  Soul  is  not  subject  to  the  dominion  of  desire,  as 
if,  like  men,  he  had  any  wish  unfulfilled,  or  were  subject  to  the  influence  of  any 
desirable  objects  "external  *to  himself,  or  were  dependent  on  other  things  r'as  instru- 
ments of  attaining  any  such  external  objects  ;  but  on  the  contrary,  is  independent  of 
all  other  things,  and  himself,  with  a  view  to  the  interests  of  living  beings,  originated 
his  desires  which  possess  the  characteristics  of  truth  and  knowledge  (or  true  know- 
ledge), and  from  being  a  part  of  himself,  are  perfectly  pure  (kamayitritvad  asmad- 
adi-vad  anaptakamam  chef  \  na  \  svatantryat  \  yatha  'nyan  paravastkritya  kamadi- 
doshah  pravarttayanti  na  tatha  Brahmanah  pravarttakah  kamah  \  kathaih  tar  hi 
satya-jnana-lakshanah  svatmabhutatvad  visuddhah  \  na  ta$.  Brahma  pravarttyate  \ 
teshaih  tu  tat-pravarttakam  B/'ahma  prani-karmapekshaya  \  tasmat  svatantryam 
kameshu  Brahmanah  \  ato  na  anaptakamam  Brahma  sadhanantaranapekshatvach 
cha  \  kincha  yatha  'nyesham  anatmabhutah  dhai'madi-nimittapekshah  kamah  svatma- 
vyatirikta-karya-karana-sadhanantarapekshacjiha  [-5s  cha  ?]  na  tatha  Brahmano 
nimittady-apekshatvam).  I  shall  below  treat  further  of  Kama,  as  a  deity,  and  of 
his  correspondence  with  the  Greek  "Epus,  as  one  of  the  first  principles  of  creation. 


RISHI'S  CONFESSION  OF  IGNORANCE  EXPLAINED  AWAY.     363 

very  gods  being  at  fault,  no  one  on  earth  is  able  to  say  what  was  the 
origin  of  the  world,  and  whether  it  had  any  creator  or  not.  Even  its 
ruler  in  the  highest  heaven  may  not  be  in  possession  of  the  great  secret. 

Such  a  confession  of  ignorance  on  the  part  of  a  Yedic  rishi  could  not, 
however,  be  taken  in  its  obvious  and  literal  sense  by  those  who  held 
the  Veda  to  have  been  derived* from  an  omniscient  and  infallible  source. 
And  in  consequence  the  commentator  on  the  Taittiriya  Brahmana  is 
obliged  to  explain  it  away  in  the  following  fashion : — 

Atra  kechid  dgamam  upekshya  sva-sva-buddhi-baldd  anyathd  'nyathd 
utprekshante  \  tathd  hi  paramdnavo  mulakdranam  iti  Kdndda-Gauta- 
mddayo  manyante  \  svatantram  achetanam  pradhdnam  jagato  mulakara- 
nam iti  Kapila-prabhritayah  \  sunydditojagad-utpattir  iti  Mddhyamikdh  \ 
jagato  kdranam  eva  ndsti  svabhdvdtah  eva  avatishthate  iti  Lokdyatikdh  \ 
te  sarve  'pi  bhrdntdh  eva  \  "ko  addha  veda1'  jagat-kdranam  ko  ndma 
purushah  sdkshdd  avagachhati  \  anavagatya  cha  "kah  iha  pravochat" 
svayam  adrishtvd  ko  ndma  jagat-kdranam  idrig  iti  vaktum  Saknoti  \  ko 
'yam  atra  vaktavydmsah  iti  chet  |  uchyate  \  iyam  vividhd  srishtih  "kutah 
djdtd  "  ta(ka  ?}smdd  updddna-kdrandt  sarvatah  utpannd  punarapi  kuto 
nimittdd  utpannd  iti  tad  idam  updddnam  nimittam  cha  vaktavyam  tach 
cha  vaktum  asakyam  \  kuto  'saktir  iti  chet  \  uchyate  \  kim  devdh  etad 
Iruyuh  kuto  'nyah  kaschid  manushyah  \  na  tdvad  devdh  vaktum  saktdh  te 
hy  asy a  jagato  vividhasrishter  "arvdg"  eva  vidyante  na  tu  srishteh 
purvam  te  santi  \  yadd  devdndm  api  idrisi  gatis  taddnlm  "  yatah" 
jagad  " dlalhuva"  tat  kdranam  vaktum  dnyah  "ko"  vd  "veda"  \  devas 
cha  manushyds  cha  srishteh  prdg  anavasthdndd  na  tdvat  pratyakshena 
pasyanti  taddnlm  svayam  eva  alhdvdd  ndpy  anwndtum  saktds  tad-yog- 
yayor  fatudrishtdntayor  abhdvdt  \  tasmdd  atigamlhlr^m  idam  para- 
mdrtha-tattvam  vaidika-samadhigamyam  ity  abhiprdyah  \  .  .  .  .  iyam 
drisyamdnd  Ihuta-lhautika-rupd  vividhd  srishtir  yatah  updddnakdrandd 
"  dlabhuva"  sarvatah  utpannd  tad  updddnakdranam  yadi  vd  kinchit 
svarupam  dhritvd  Avatishthate  yadi  vd  tasya  svarupam  eva  ndsti  tarn 
imam  nirnayam  yah^  Paramesvaro  'sya" jagato  "'dhyakshah"  svdml'"so 
anga  veda  "  sa  eva  veda  yadi  vd  so  'pi  na  wda  \  Isitnsitavyddi-laukika- 
vyavahara-drishtyd  "so  anga  veda"  ity  uktam  \  yatra  tv  asy  a  sarvam 
dtmd  eva  abhiit  kena  kam  pasyed  ityddi-sarva-vyavahqratl.ta-paramdrtha- 
drishtyd  "yadivd  na  veda"  ity  uktam  \  ato  manushyddishu  tad-vedana- 
sankd  'pi  durdpetd  \ 


364     RISHI'S  CONFESSION  OF  IGNORANCE  EXPLAINED  AWAY. 

"There  are  certain  persons  who  contemn  revelation,  and  propound 
different  theories  of  creation  by  their  own  reason.  Thus  the  followers 
of  Kanada  and  Gautama,  etc.,  consider  atoms  to  be  the  ultimate  cause 
of  the  world.  Kapila  and  others  say  that  an  independent  and  un- 
conscious Pradhana  is  the  cause.  The  Madhyamikas  declare  that  the 
world  rose  out  of  a  void,  etc.  The  Lokaya'cikas  say  that  the  universe  has 
no  cause  at  all,  but  exists  naturally.  .Ml  these  speculators  are  in  error. 
Our  hymn  asks  what  mortal  knows  by  actual  observation  the  cause  of 
the  world  ?  and  not  having  himself  had  ocular  proof,  how  can  any 
one  say  it  was  so  and  so  ?  The  points  to  be  declared  are  the  material 
and  instrumental  causes  of  the  universe,  and  these  cannot  be  told. 
The  reason  of  this  impossibility  is  next  set  forth.  Can  the  gods  give 
the  required  information  ?  Or,  if  not,  how  can  any  man  ? '  The  gods 
cannot  tell,  for  they  did  not  precede,  but  are  subsequent  to,  the 
creation.  Since  the  gods  are  in  this  predicament,  who  else  can  know  ? 
The  purport  is,  that  as  neither  gods  nor  men  existed  before  the  creation, 
and  cannot  therefore  have  witnessed  it,  and  as  they  are  at  the  same  time 
unable  to  conclude  anything  regarding  it,  from  the  absence  of  any  ade- 
quate reason  or  illustrative  instance,  this  great  mystery  can  only  be 
understood  by  those  versed  in  the  Vedas. . .  .The  last  verse  of  the  hymn 
declares  that  the  ruler  of  the  universe  knows,  or  that  even  he  does  not 
know,  from  what  material  cause  this  visible  world  arose,  and  whether 
that  material  cause  exists  in  any  definite  form  or  not.  That  is  to  say, 
the  declaration  that  '  he  knoVs '  is  made  from  the  stand-point  of  that 
popular  conception  which  distinguishes  betweeen  the  ruler  of  the  uni- 
verse and  the  creatures  over  whom  he  rules  ;  while  the  proposition 
that  'he  does  ,not  know'  is  asserted  on  the  ground  of  that, highest 
principle  which,  transcending  all  popular  conceptions,  affirms  the 
identity  of  all  things  with  the  supreme  Soul,  which  cannot  see 
any  other  existence  as  distinct  from  itself.  [The  sense  of  this 
last  clause  is,  that  the  supreme  Soul  can  know  nothing  of  any  object 
being  created  external  to  itself,  since  no  such  object  exists].  "A. 
fortiori,  the  supposition  that  such  beings  as  men  could  possess  this 
knowledge  is  excluded." 

It  would,  howev(er,  be  absurd  to  imagine  that  the  simple  author  of 
the  hymn  entertained  any  such  transcendental  notions  as  these.  He 
makes  no  pretensions  to  infallibility,  but  honestly  acknowledges  the 


QUOTATION  FKOM  THE  TAITTIRIYA  BRAHMANA.  365 

perplexity  which  he  felt  in  speculating  on  the  great  problem  of  the 
origin  of  the  universe.543 

As  a  further  illustration,  hoth  of  the  more  ancient  and  the  later 
ideas  of  the  Indians  regarding  the  creation  of  the  world,  and  the 
manner  in  which  the  supreme  Spirit,  previously  quiescent,  was  moved 
to  activity,  I  add  another  pas'sage  from  the  Taittiriya  Brahmana,  ii.  2, 
9,  1,  with  some  of  the  commentetor's  remarks.  The  text  of  the  Brah- 
mana runs  thus:544  "This  [universe]  was  not  originally  anything. 
There  was  neither  heaven,  nor  earth,  nor  atmosphere.  That  being 
nonexistent  (asaf),  resolved,  'Let  me  be.'  That  became  fervent  (or 
practised  rigorous  abstraction,  atapyata).  From  that  fervour  (or 
abstraction)  smoke  was  produced.  That  became  again  fervent.  From 
that  fervour  fire  was  produced.  That  became  again  fervent.  From 
that  fervour  light  was  produced."  And  so  on, — flame,  rays,  blazes, 
etc.,  being  generated  by  a  repetition  of  the  same  process.  (It  may 
perhaps  be  considered  that  the  manner  in  which  the  word  tapas  is 
used  in  this  passage  is  favourable  .to  the  idea  that  in  R.V.  x.  129,  3,  it 
signifies  heat  rather  than  rigorous  abstraction.) 

Ibid.  ii.  2,  9,  10:  Asato  'dhi  mano  'sryyata  \  manah  Prajdpatim 
a&rijata  \  Prajupatih  prajuh  asrijata  \  "From  the  nonexistent  mind 
(manas)  was  created.  Mind  created  Prajapati.  Prajapati  created 
offspring." 

The  commentator's  explanation  of  the  first  part  of  this  passage  is  in 
stibstance  as  follows :  "  Before  the  creation  no  portion  existed  of  the 
world  which  we  now  see.  Let  such  a  state  of  nonexistence  be  sup- 
posed. It  conceived  the  thought,  '  Let  me  attain  the  condition  of 
existence.'  Accordingly,  this  state  of  things  is  distinctly  asserted  in 
the  Upanishad  (the  Taittiriya,  see  above,  p.  359) :  '  This  was  origi- 
nally nonexistent.  From  it  existence  was  produced.'  Here,  by  the 
word  '  nonexistent,'  a  state  of  void  (or  absolute  nullity),  like  tbat  ex- 
pressed in  the  phrase  '  a  hare's  horns,'  is  not  intended ;  but  simply  a 
state  in  which  name  and  form  were  not  manifested.  Hence  the  Wja- 
saneyins  repeat  the  text :  '  This  was  then  undeveloped ;  let  it  be 
developed  through  name  and  form.'  Earth,  the  waters,  etc.,  are 

513  Similar  perplexity  is  elsewhere, expressed  on  other  subjects  by  the  authors  of 
the  hymns.  See  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  Work,  pp.  279  f. 

641  The  words  of  the  original  will  he  found  in  the  1st  vol,  of  this  work,  pp.  27  f. 


366  QUOTATION  FROM  THE  TAITTIRIYA  BEAHMANA. 

'name.'  Hardness  and  fluidity,  etc.,  are  'form.'"  The  words  "un- 
developed" and  "developed  "  are  then  defined,  and  Manu,  i.  5,  is  quoted 
in  proof.  The  supposition  that  the  passage  before  us  can  be  intended 
to  denote  a  void  is  next  contravened  by  adducing  the  text  of  the 
Chhandogya  Upanishad  above  quoted,  where  that  theory  is  referred  to 
and  contradicted.  "In  the  Aitareya  Upanishad  (at  the  beginning)  it 
is  declared :  '  Soul  alone  was  in  the  Beginning  this  [universe].  No- 
thing else  was  active.'  Hence  the  negation  in  our  text,  '  This  [uni- 
verse] was  not  originally  anything,'  refers  to  the  world,  consisting  of 
name  and  form,  framed  by  the  Supreme  Spirit,  and  is  not  to  be  under- 
stood absolutely.  Designated  by  the  word  '  nonexistent '  (asat\  be- 
cause devoid  of  name  and  form,  but  still  (really)  existing  (sat},  the 
principle  [called]  the  Supreme  Spirit,  impelled  by  the  works  of  the 
creatures  absorbed  in  It,  conceived  a  thought  in  the  way  of  a  reflec- 
tion, 'Let  me  be  manifested  as  existent  in  the  shape  of  name  and 
form.'  As  a  man  in  a  deep  sleep  awakes  that  he  may  enjoy  the  fruit 
of  his  works,  so  the  thought  of  Gauging  all  living  creatures  to  enjoy 
the  fruit  of  their  works  arose  in  the  Supreme  Spirit.  Possessed  by 
such  a  thought,  that  principle  [called]  the  Supreme  Spirit,  practised 
rigorous  abstraction  (tapas)  as  a  means  of  creating  name  and  form. 
Here  tapas  does  not  mean  any  such  thing  as  the  krichbra  or  chandra- 
yana  penances,  or  the  like  ;  but  denotes  consideration  regarding  the 
particular  objects  which  were  to  be  created.  Wherefore  writers  of  the 
Atharva-veda  school  record  'the  text :  '  He  who  is  omniscient,  all- 
understanding,  whose  tapas  consists  of  knowledge.'  From  the  fact  that 
this  tapas  has  nothing  of  the  character  of  any  penance,  it  may  be 
properly  regarded  as  denoting  the  reflection  of  a  being  who,.,  though 
unembodied,  is  yet  omnipotent,"  etc.,  etc.  "  From  the  supreme  God, 
being  such  as  has  been  described,  in  conformity  with  his  volition,  a 
certain  smoke  was  produced,"  etc.,  etc. 

(Yad  idaih  sthdvara-jangama-rupaih  bhulokddiriipam  cJiajagad  iddnlm 
driiyate  tat  kimapi  srishteh  pi~rvam  naiva  dslt  \  tat  tddrisam  asad- 
rupain  eva  varttamdndm  syut  \  sad-rupatdm  prdpnuydm  ity  etddrisam 
tnano  'Jcuruta  \  tathd  cha  upanishadi  purvam  asad-rupam  paschdt  sad- 
rupatotpattis  cha  vjspashtam  drnndyate  "  asad  vai  idam  agre  ault  tato  vai 
sad  ajdyata"  iti  \  atra  "  asat-'sabdena  na  sasa-vishdnddi-samdnam 
Sunyatvam  vivakshitath  kim  tarhy  anabhivyakta-numa-rupalvam  \  atah  eva 


PUEUSHA.  367 

Vdjasaneyinah  samdmananti  "  tad  ha  idam  tarhy  avydkritam  dslf,  \  tad 
ndma-rupdbhydm  eva  vyukriyeta"  Hi  \  bhumir  dpah  ityddikam  nfima 
kdthinya-dravddikam  rupam  |  .  .  .  .  Aitareyinas  tv  adhlyate  "  dtmd  vai 
idam  ekah  eva  agre  dsld  na  anyat  kinchana  mishad"  iti  \  tasmdd  "naiva 
kinchana  dsld"  ity  ayam  nishedhah  Paramdtma-nirmita-ndma-rupdt- 
maka-jagad-vishayo  na  tu  Ifritsna-vishayah  \  ndma-rupa-rahitatvena 
" asat"  -  sabda-vdchyam  sad  eva  nvasthitam Paramdtma-tattvafh  svdtmany 
antarhita-prdni-karmapreritam  sad  ndma-rupdkdrena  dvirbhaveyam  iti 
parydlochana-rupam  mano  'kuruta  \  yatJiu  gadha-nidram  pruptasya 
purushasya  karma-phala-lhogaya  prabodhah  utpadyate  tathd  sarvun 
prdninah  sva-sva-karma-phalam  Ihojayitum  Idriso  vichdrah  Paramdt- 
manah  prdduralhut  \  tathdvidha-vichura-yuktam  tat  Paramdtma-tattva- 
rupam  ndma-riipa-srishti-stidhana-rupam  tapo  'kuruta  \  na  atra  tapah 
krichhra-chdndrdyanddi-rupam  \  kintu  srashtavya-paddrtha-visesha- 
vishayam  parydlochanam  \  atah  eva  Atharvanikdh  dmananti  "yah 
garvajnah  sarvavid  yasya  jndnamayam  tapah  "  iti  \  krichhrddi-rupatvd- 
bhdvdd  asarlrasya  api  sarva-sakii-yuktasya  parydlochanam  upapannam  \ 
....  tddrisdt  tasmdt  Paramesvardt  sva  -  sankalpdnusdrena  kaschid 
dhumah  udapadyata  |) 

(6)  Punisha, 

Another  important,  but  in  many  places  obscure,  hymn  of  the  Eig- 
veda,  in  -which  the  unity  of  the  Godhead  is  recognized,  though  in  a 
pantheistic  sense,  is  the  90th  of  the'  tenth  book,  the  celebrated 
Purusha  Sukta/45  which  is  as  follows  : 

1.  Sahasrasirshdh  Purushah  sahasrdkshah  sahasrapdt  \  sa  bhumim 
visvato  vritvd  aty  atishthad  dasdngulam  \  '2.  Pyrushah*  evedam  sarvam 
yad  bhutam  yach  cha  bhavyatn  \  utdmritatvasyesdno  yad  annendlirohati  \ 
3.  Etdvdn  asya  mahimd  ato  jydydms  cha  Purushah  \  pudo  Jsya  visvd 

• 

644  Translations  of  this  hymn  (which  is  also  given  with  slight  variations  in  Vaj.  8. 
13, 1-16,  and  A.V.  19,  6,  and  7,  5,  4)  will  be  found  in  Mr.  Colebrooke's  Miscel.  Ess. 
i.  167  (see  also  the  noteiiu  p.  309  of  the  same  volume),  as  also  in  the  1st  vol.  of  this 
"Work,  9  ff  ;  (into  French)  in  the  Preface  to  Burtouf 's  Bhagavata  Purana,  vol.  i. 
pp.  cxxxi.  fF.  (where  see  the  notes) ;  and  (into  German)  in  Professor  Weber's  Ind. 
Stud.  ix.  5  ff .  I  have  now  endeavoured  to  supply  some  further  illustrations  of  the 
ideas  in  the  hymn.  I  have  passed  tover  several  obscurities  *on  which  I  have  been 
unable  to  throw  any  light.  The  nn>t  two  verses  are  given  in  the  S'vetas'vatara 
TJpanishad,  iii.  14,  15,  where  the  commentary  may  be  consulted. 


368  PUEUSHA. 

Ihutdni  tripdd  asydmritam  divi  |  4.  Tripdd  urddhvah  ud  ait  Purushah 
pddo  'syehdbhavat  punah  \  tato  vishvan  vyakrdmat  sdsandnasane  abhi  \ 
5.  Tasmdd  Virdl  ajdyata  Virdjo  adhi  Purushah  \  sa  jdto  aty  arichyata 
paschdd  bhumim  atho  purah  \  6.  Yat  Purushena  havishd  devdh  yajnam 
atanvata  \  vasanto  asydsld  djyafh  grlshmah  idhmah  sarad  havih  \  7.  Tarn 
yajnam  larliishi  praukshan  Purusham  julam  agratah  \  tena  devdh  aya~ 
junta  sddhydh  rishayas  cha  ye  \  8.  Ta&Mdd  yajndt  sarvahutah  samlhri- 
tam  prishaddjyam  \  pasumi  turns  chakre  vdyavydn  dranydn  grdmyds  che 
ye  |  9.  Tasmdd  yajndt  sarvahutah  richah  sdmdni  jajnire  \  chhanddmsi 
jajnire  tasmdd  yajus  tasmdd  ajdyata  \  10.  Tasmdd  asvdh  ajdyanta  ye  he 
cha  nbhayddatah  \  gdvo  ha  jajnire  tasmdt  tasmuj  jdtdh  ajdvayah  \  11. 
Yat  Purusham  vi  adadhuh  katidhd  vi  akalpayan  \  mukham  kirn  asya  kau 
lahu  kd  firu  pddau  uchyete  \  12.  Brdhmano  'sya  mukham  dsld  bdhu  rdja- 
nyah  kritah  \  uru  tad  asya  yad  vaisyah  padlhydm  sudro  ajdyata  \  13. 
Chandramdh  manaso  jdtas  chakshoh  Suryo  ajdyata  \  mukhdd  Indras  cha 
Agnis  cha  prdndd  Vdyur  ajdyata  \  14.  Ndlhydh  dsld  antariksham  sirshno 
dyauh  samavartata  \  padbhydm  bhumir  disah  srotrdt  tathd  lokdn  akalpa- 
yan |  15.  Saptdsydsan  paridhayas  irih  snpta  samidhah  kritdh  \  devdh 
yad  yajnam  tanvdndh  abadhnan  Purusham  pasum  \  16.  Yajnena  yajnam 
ayajanta  devds  tdni  dharmdni  prathamdni  dsan  \  te  ha  ndkam  mahimd- 
nah  sachanta  yatra  purve  sddhydh  santi  devdh  \ 

"  1.  Purusha  has  a  thousand  heads  (a  thousand  arms,  A.Y.),  a 
thousand  eyes,  and  a  thousand  feet.  On  every  side  enveloping  the 
earth,  he  transcended  [it]  by"a  space  of  ten  fingers.  2.  Purusha  him- 
self is  this  whole 516  [universe],  whatever  has  heen,  and  whatever  shall 
be.  He  is  also  the  lord  of  immortality,  since  through  food  he  ex- 
pands.547 3.  ^uch  is  his  greatness;  and  Purusha  is  superior,  to  this. 
All  existing  things  are  a  quarter  M*  of  him,  and  that  which  is  immortal 

6J6  Compare  S'atap.  Br.  iv.  2,  2,  1  :  Sarvam  hy  ayam  atma ;  "for  this  soul  is 
everything." 

s47  The  sense  of  the  last  clause  is  obscure.  It  may  also  mean,  according  to  the 
commentators  on  the  Vaj.  S.  and  the-  S'vetas'v.  Upan.  "  (he  is  also  the  lord  of)  that 
which  grows  by  food."  According  to  the  paraphrase  in  tht  Bhagavata  Purana  (see 
below),  it  means,  "  seeing  he  juas  transcended  mortal  nutriment."  The  parallel 
passage  of  the  A.V.  (19,  6,  4)  reads,  "  he  is  also  the  lord  of  immortality,  since  he 
became  united  with  another  (yad  anyenabhavat  saha). 

448  Compare  A.V.  x.  8,  7,  and  13 :  "  7.  With  the  half  he  produced  the  whole 
world ;  but  what  became  of  that  which  was  the  [other]  half  of  him  ?  (ardhena  visvam 
bhuvanam  jajana  yad  asya  ardhaih  kva  tad  Ifttbhuva).  13.  Prajapati  moves  within 


PUEUSHA.  369 

in  the  sky  is  three  quarters  of  him.  4.  With  thret  quarters  Purusha 
mounted  upwards.  A  quarter  of  him  again  was  produced  here  below. 
He  then  became  diffused  everywhere  among  things  animate  and  inani- 
mate. 5.  Prom  him  Yiraj  was  born,  and  from  Viraj,  Purusha.549  As 

the  womb;  though  unseen,  he  is  b»rn  in  many  forms.  With  the  half  he  produced 
the  whole  world  ;  but  the  [other]  half  of  him,  what  sign  is  there  of  it  ?  "  Compare 
also  A.V.  x.  7,  8,  9,  yhich,  as  well  as 'portions  of  A.V.  x.  8,  will  be  found  quoted  and 
translated  further  on,  in  the  subsection  on  Skambha. 

549  The  commentator  on  the  Vaj.  San.  (where,  as  I  have  said,  this  hymn  is  also 
found)  explains  this  reciprocal  generation  of  Viraj  from  Purusha,  and  again  of 
Purusha  from  Viraj,  by  saying,  in  conformity  with  Vedantic  principles,  that  Viraj  in 
the  form  of  the  mundane  egg  sprang  from  Adi-Purusha  (primeval  Purusha),  who 
then  entered  into  this  egg,  which  he  animates  as  its  vital  soul  or  divine  principle 
(tatah  |  tasmad  adipurushad  Virat  brahmanda-deho  'jayata  |  .  .  .  .  tarn  eva  deham 
adhikaranam  kritva  Purmhas  taddehabhimanl  ekah  eva  puman  ajdyata  \  sarva- 
vedanta-vedyah  Paramatma  sva-mayaya  Virad-deham  brahmanda-rupam  srishlva 
tatra  jlvarupena  pravisya  brahniandabhimam  devatatma  jlvo  'bhavad  ity  arthaJi). 
According  to  Manu,  i.  8-11  (see  the  «lst  vol.  of  this  Work,  pp.  35  f.)  the  supreme 
Deity  first  created  the  waters,  in  which  he  placed  an  egg,  from  which  again  he  him- 
self was  born  as  Brahma,  also  called  Narayana.  This  male  (Purusha),  created  by 
the  eternal,  imperceptible,  first  Cause,  is,  as  verse  1 1  repeats,  called  Brahma.  Brahma 
by  his  own  thought  split  the  egg  (verse  12).  After  various  other  details  regarding 
the  creation,  the  writer  goes  on  to  say  (verse  32)  that  Brahma  divided  his  own  body 
into  two  halves,  of  which  one  became  a  male  (Purusha),  and  the  other  a  female,  in 
whom  he  produced  Viraj.  This  male  (Purusha)  Viraj  again  creates  Minu  himself 
(verse  33).  We  here  see  that  the  word  male,  or  Purusha,  is  applied  by  Manu  to 
three  beings — viz.,  first,  to  Brahma  (verse  11) ;  second,  to  the  male  formed  by 
Brahma  from  the  half  of  his  own  body  (verse  32) ;  and  thirdly,  to  Viraj,  whom 
Brahma,  or  his  male  half,  produced  from  the  female  who  was  made  out  of  the  other 
half  of  his  body  (see  also  Wilson's  Vishnu  Parana,  p.  105,  note,  in  Dr.  Hall's 
edition).  Another  explanation  of  the  verse  is,  however,  to  be  obtained  by  comparing 
the  similar  passage  in  E.V.  x.  72,  4 :  "  Daksha  sprang  from  Aditi,  and  Aditi  from 
Daksha"  (quoted  above,  p.  48),  together  with  the  observation  of  Yaska  (Nirukta,  xi. 
23,  also  qwoted  above  in  page  50),  that  this  startling  declaration  wiay  be  explicable 
on  the  ground  that  these  two  deities  had  the  same  origin,  or,  in  conformity  with  a 
characteristic  of  their  divine  nature,  may  have  been  produced  from  each  other,  and 
have  derived  their  substance  from  each  other.  (See  also  Nirukta,  vii.  4,  quoted  above, 
p.  350,  where  the  author  repeats  the  same  idea  regarding  the  nature  of  the  gods). 
Compare  also  A.V.  xiii.  4,  29  ff.,  where  Indra  is  said  to  be  produced  from  a  great 
many  different  phenomena  or  elements,  and  th,ey  reciprocally  from  him  (sa  vai  «,hno 
ajayata  tasmad  ahar  ajvyata).  The  S'atap.  Br.  (xiii.  6,  1,  2)  understands  Viraj  in 
the  passage  before  us  to  signify  not  any  male  po^er,  but  the  metre  of  that  name : 
"The  Viraj  has  forty  syllables.  Hence  he  (Purusha)  obtains  the  Viraj,  according  to 
the  text,  '  From  him  sprang  Vi?aj,  and  from  Viraj  Purusha."  This  is  that  Viraj. 
From  this  Viraj,  therefore,  it  is  that  he  begets  Purusha  the  sacrifice."  Viraj  occurs 
again  in  the  R.V.  ix.  96,  18,  and  x.  130,  5,  as  feminine  and  as  the  name  of  a  metre. 
It  is  also  found  in  x.  159,  3,  and  x*l66,  1,  as  well  as  in  i.  188,  5,  where  it  is  an 

24 


370  PIJRUSHA: 

soon  as  born  lie  extended  beyond  the  earth,  both  behind  and  before.550 
6.  When  the  gods  offered  up  Purusha  as  a  sacrifice,  the  spring  was  its 
clarified  butter,  summer  its  fuel,  and  autumn  the  [accompanying] 

adjective.  In  the  A.V.  it  is  of  frequent  occurrence,  and  sometimes  is  an  epithet,  and 
sometimes  denotes  the  metre  of  that  name.  Thus  in  ix.  2,  5  (compare  Vaj.  Sanh. 
17,  3,  and  S'atap.  Br.  ix.  2,  1,  19),  it  is  said,  "That  daughter  of  thine,  o  Kama,  is 
called  the  Cow,  she  whom  sages  denominate  Vfich  Viraj  "  (see  helow,  the  subsection 
on  Kama,  and  Ind.  Stud.  ix.  478 ;  compare  R.V.  viii.  90,  16  : '  vachovidam  Vacham 
....  devlm  devebhyah  pary  eyusKlm  gam  \  "  The  goddess  Vach  ....  the  cow,  who 
has  come  from  the  gods  ").  Again  in  viii.  9,  1 :  vafsau  Virajah  salilad  udaitam  \ 
2.  Vatsah  kamadugho  Virajah  |  ....  7.  Virajam  ahur  brahmanah  pitaram  tarn  no  vi 
dhehi  yatidha  sakhibhyah  \  8.  Tarn  prachyutam  anu  yajnah  prachyavante  upatishth- 
ante  upatishthamanam  \  yasyah  vrate  prasave  yaksham  ejati  so.  Virad  rishayah  parame 
vyoman  \  S.Aprana  eti  pranena  pranaflnam  Virat  Svarajam  abhyeti  paschat  \  "The 
two  calves  of  Viraj  rose  out  of  the  water.  2  ....  The  desire-bestowing  calf  of  Viraj." 
It  is  shortly  afterwards  (verse  7)  strangely  said  that  Viraj,  though  spoken  of  in  the 
feminine  gender,  is  the  "father  of  brahman,"  whether  that  mean  the  deity  or  devotion. 
"  They  say  that  Viraj  is  the  father  of  devotion.  Bring  her  to  us  thy  friends  in  as 
many  forms  (as  thou  canst).  8.  She  whom,  when  she  advances,  sacrifices  follow, 
and  stand  still  when  she  stands ;  she,  by  whose  will  and  energy  the  living  being 
moves,  is  Viraj  in  the  highest  heaven.  9.  "Without  breath,  she  moves  by  the  breath 
of  breathing  females.  Viraj  follows  after  Svaraj,"  etc.  The  calf  of  Viraj  is  men- 
tioned again  in  xiii.  1,  33.  In  viii.  10,  1,  it  is  said  of  her :  Virad  vai  idam  agre 
aslt  tasynh  jatayah  sarvam  abibhed  "  iyam  eva  idam  bhavishyati"  iti  \  2.  Sa  uda- 
kramat  sa  garhapatye  vyakramat  \  grihamedhi  grihapatir  bhavati  yah  evam  veda  \ 
"  Viraj  was  formerly  all  this  [universe].  Everything  was  afraid  of  her  when  she  was 
born,  lest  she  herself  should  become  this.  2.  She  ascended.  She  entered  the  Gar- 
hapatya  fire.  He  who  knows  this  becomes  master  of  a  house,"  etc.  And  in  ix.  10, 
24,  we  read  :  Virad  vag  virat  prithivl  virad  antariksham  virat  prajapatih  \  viran 
mrityuh  sadhyanam  adhirajo  babtiuva,  etc.  "  Viraj  is  Vach,  is  the  earth,  and  the 
air,  is  Prajapati,  is  Death,  the  ruler  of  the  Sadhyas,"  etc.  S'atap.  Br.  xiii.  2,  5,  3  : 
Prajapatir  Virajam  asrijat  sa  'smat  srishta  pat-achy  ait  \  sa  'svam  medhyam  pra- 
visat  |  "PrajOpati  created  Viraj.  She  being  produced  from  him  went  away  and 
entered  into  the  sacrificial  horse."  In  reading  these  passages  we  should  bear  in  mind 
the  great  power  attributed'  by  the  Vedic  writers  to  hymns  and  metres.  See  Weber's 
Ind.  Stud.  viii.  8-12 ;  and  vol.  iii.  of  this  Work,  pp.  275  ff.  On  the  virtues  of  the 
Viraj  in  particular,  see  Weber,  as  above,  pp.  56  ff.  In  the  following  texts  the  word 
may  be  a  masculine  name  or  an  epithet :  A.V.  xi.  5,  16.  "  The  acharya  is  a  brahma- 
charin ;  the  brahmacharin  is  Prajapati.  Prajapati  shines  (vi  rajati).  He  became 
the  resplendent,  powerful  Indra."  So  also  in  iv.  11,  7 ;  xiii.  3,  5  ;  xi.  5,  7  ;  and 
viii.  5,  10,  where  Viraj  precedes  or  follows  the  words  Prajapati  and  Parameshthin. 
In  xi.  4,  12,  Viraj  is  identified  with  Prana.  In  the  Brihad  Ar.  Up.  Viraj  is  called 
the  wife  of  Purusha.  (See  p.  217  of  Dr.  Roer's  translation.  In  R.V.  x.  159,  3 
(atho  me  duhita  virat),  and  x.  166,  1  (virajam  gopat;m  gavam),  the  word  seems  to  be 
an  epithet.  , 

550  In  the  Bhagavata  Purana,  ii.  6,  15  ff.,"the  preceding  verses  of  our  hymn  are 
paraphrased  as  follows  :  sarvam  Purushah  evedam  bhutam  bhavyam  bhavach  cha  yat  \ 
tenedam  avritam  visvam  vitastim  adhitishthati  \  16.  Svadhishthyam  pratapan  Prano 


PURUSHA.  371 

oblation.  7.  This  victim,  Purusha  born  in  the  beginning,  they  immo- 
lated on  the  sacrificial  grass ;  with  him  as  their  offering,  the  gods, 
Sadhyas,  and  Eishis  sacrificed.  8.  From  that  universal  oblation  were 
produced  curds  and  clarified  butter.  He  (Purusha)  formed  those  aerial 
creatures,  and  the  animals,  bpth  wild  and  tame.  9.  From  that  uni- 
versal sacrifice  sprang  the  hynyis  called  Rich  and  Saman,  the  metres, 
and  the  Yajush.  *  10.  From  it  were  produced  horses,  and  all  animals 
with  two  rows  of  teeth,  cows,  goats,  and  sheep.  11.  When  they 
divided  Purusha,  into  how  many  parts  did  they  distribute  him  ?  What 
was  his  mouth  ?  "What  were  his  arroe  ?  What  were  called  his  thighs 
and  feet  ?  12.  The  Brahman  was  his  mouth  ; 551  the  Eajanya  became 
his  arms ;  the  Yaisya  was  his  thighs;  the  Sudra  sprang  from  his  feet. 
13.  The  moon  was  produced  from,  his  soul;  the  sun  from  his  eye; 
Indra  and  Agni  from  his  mouth ;  and  Yayu  from  his  breath.  14. 
From  his  navel  came  the  atmosphere;  from  his  head  arose  the  sky; 
from  his  feet  came  the  earth  ;  from  his  ear  the  four  quarters  :  so  they 
formed  the  worlds.  15.  When  th'e  gods,  in  performing  their  sacrifice, 

vahis  chapratapaty  asau  \  evam  Virajam  pratapams  tapaty  antar  vahih  puman  \  17. 
So  'mritasyabhayasyeso  martyam  annam  yad  atyagat  ]  mahimaisho  tato  brahman 
Purushasya  duratyayah  \  18.  Padeshu  sarva-bhutani  Pumsah  sthitipado  viduh  \ 
amritam  kshemam  abhayam  trimurdhno  'dhayi  murdhasu  \  19.  Padas  trayo  vahis 
chasann  aprajanam  ye  asramah  \  antas  trilokyus  tv  aparo  grihamedho  '  vrihad-vratah  \ 

20.  Sritl  vichakrame  vishvan  sasananasane  ubhe  \  yad  avidya  cha  vidya  cha  Purushas 
tubhayasrayah  \    21.  Tasmad  andnm   Virad  jajne  bhutendriya-gunatmakah  \   tad- 
dravyam  atyagad  visvam  gobhih  suryah  ivatapan  \  15.  "  Purusha  himself  is  all  this 
which  has  been,  shall  be,  and  is.    By  him  this  universe  is  enveloped,  and  yet  he 
occupies  but  a  span.  16.  That  Prana  [explained  by  the  commentator  as  the  sun],  while 
kindling  his  own  sphere,  kindles  also  that  which  is  without  it.     So,  too,  Purusha, 
while  kindjing  Viraj,  kindles  whatever  is  within  and  without^  him.   \\  He  is  the  lord  of 
immortality  and  security,  since  he  has  transcended  mortal  nutriment.     Hence,  q 
Brahman,  this  greatness  of  Purusha  is  unsurpassable.  18.  The  wise  know  all  things  to 
exist  in  the  feet  [or  quarters]  of  Purusha,  who  has  the  worlds  for  feet  [or  quarters]  : 
immortality,  blessedness,  and  security,  abide  in  the  heads  of  the  three-headed.  19.  Three 
quarters,  viz.,  the  abodes  of  ascetics,  are  beyond  the  three  worlds  ;  while  the  remain- 
ing quarter,  the  abode  of  householders  who  have  not  adopted  a  life  of  celibacy,  is 
within  them.  20.  Purushf^has  traversed  both  the  two  separate  paths,  that  of  enjoyment 
and  abstinence,  that  is,  of  ignorance  and  knowledge  ;  tfor  he  is  the  receptacle  of  both. 

21.  From  him  was  produced  an  egg,  consisting  of  the  elements  and  senses  and  three 
qualities.     Purusha  penetrated  tbrough  its  entire  substance,  as  the  sun  warms  with 
his  rays."     There  is  a  good  deal  about  Purusha  in  the  Brihad  &ranyaka  Upanishad. 
See  pp.  217,  220-228,  233,  250,  252,  2&7,  of  Dr.  Eoer's  English  translation. 

631  Kaushltaki  Brahmana  Upanishad,  ii.  9,  quoted  in  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work, 
p.  10,  note. 


372  PUEUSHA. 

bound  Purusha  as  a  victim,  there  were  seven  pieces  of  wood  laid  for 
him  round  the  fire,  and  thrice  seven  pieces  of  fuel  employed.  16. 
"With  sacrifice  the  gods  worshipped  the  Sacrifice.  These  were  the  first 
institutions.  These  great  beings  attained  to  the  heaven  where  the 
gods,  the  ancient  Sadhyas,  reside."  552 

There  are  two  other  hymns  of  the  Big-veda  besides  the  Purusha 
Sukta  in  which  the  Deity  is  represented*as  either  the  ?gent,  the  object, 
or  the  subject  of  sacrifice.  In  x.  81,  5,  Visvakarman  is  said  to  sacri- 
fice himself,  or  to  himself;  and  in  verse  6,  to  offer  up  heaven  and 
earth.  And  in  x.  130  (where,  in  verse  2,  Puman  may  be  equivalent 
to  Purusha),  it  is  said  (verse  3)  either  that  the  gods  sacrificed  to  the 
[supreme]  god,  or  that  they  offered  him  up.553 

In  the  Nirukta,  x.  26,S54  a  legend,  having  reference  to  R.V.  x.  81,  is 
quoted  to  the  effect  that  Visvakarman,  the  son  of  Bhuvana,  first  of 
all  offered  up  all  worlds  in  a  sarvamedhff,  and  ended  by  sacrificing  him- 
self. And  in  the  S'atap.  Br.  xiii.  7,  1,  1,  the  same  thing  is  related  of 
the  self-existent  Brahma  himself,  "who,  finding  that  he  could  not 
by  austere  fervour  attain  to  the  infinitude  which  he  desired,  re- 

852  This  verse  is  =  i.  164,  50,  where  see  Sayana's  interpretation  and  Mahidhara's  on 
Vaj.  S.  31,  16  ;  also  Nir.  12,  41. 

853  The  rendering  in  these  passages  depends  on  the  exact  sense  assigned  to  the 
word  yaj.   See  the  4th  vol.  of  this  Work,  pp.  7-9.    The  Taitt.  Sanh.  Asht,  vi.  p.  41 
of  India  Office  MS.,  says :    Tajnena  vai  Prajapatih  prajah  asrijata   \   "  Prajapati 
created  living  beings  by  sacrifice."'-   In  the  Taitt.  Br.  3,  9,  22,  1,  it  is  said:  "The 
gods  slaughtered  father  Prajapati  as  a  victim.     They  then  fasted,  saying:  'In  the 
morning  we  shall  offer  sacrifice.' "     Prajapatim  vai  devah  pitaram  pasum  bhutam 
medhaya  alabhanta  \  tarn  alabhya  upavasan  \  pratar  yashtashmahe  iti. 

651  Vol.  iv.  of  this  work,  p.  7  ;  see  also  p.  309 ;  and  Mahabharata  'S'antip.,  verse 
241 :  visvarvpo  Mahadev'dh  sarvamedhe  mahamakhe  \  juhava  sarva-bhutani  tathai- 
vamanam  atmana  \  "  The  omniform  Mahadeva  sacrificed  all  creatures  in  a  great 
all-oblation,  and  then  offered  himself  by  himself."  In  the  S'atap.  Br.  ri.  1,  8, 
2,  it  is  said  that  "Prajapati  gave  himself  to  the  gods,  and  became  their  sacri- 
fice. For  sacrifice  is  the  food  of  the  gods.  He  then  created  sacrifice  as  his 
own  image  (or  counterpart).  Hence  they  say  that  'Prajapati  is  sacrifice;'  for  he 
created  it  as  his  own  image  "  (tebhyah  Prajapatir  atmanam  pradadau  \  Yajno  ha 
esham  asa  \  Yajno  hi  devanam  annum  \  3.  Sa  devebhyah  atmanam  pradaya  atha  etam 
atmanah  pratimam  asrijata  yad  yajnam  \  tasmad  ahuh  "Prajapatir  yajnah"  iti  \ 
atmano  hy  etam  pratimam  asrijata}.  In  the  M.  rBh.  S'antip.  9616,  also,  it  is  said 
that  Prajapati  formed  the  sacrificial  victims,  and  sacrifice  itself,  and  with  it  worship- 
ped the  gods.  The  S'atap.  Br.  says,  elsewhere,  xiv.  3,  2,  1,  "  This  which  is  sacrifice 
is  the  soul  of  all  beings  and  of  all  gods  "  (sarvesham  vai  esha  bhutanam  sarvesham 
devanam  atma  yad  yajnah]. 


PURUSHA.  373 

solved  to  offer  up  himself  in  created  things,  and  created  things  in 
himself,  and  having  done  this,  attained  to  pre-eminence,  self-efful- 
gence, and  supreme  dominion  (see  the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  25). 
It  is  evident  that  the  author  of  this  passage  had  not  attained  to  that 
clear  conception  of  the  self-sufficiency  and  omnipotence  of  a  self- 
existent  Being  which  later  jfndian  writers  acquired.555 

In  the  hymn  before  us  the*  gods  are  distinctly  said  (in  verses  6,  7, 
and  15)  to  have  offered  up  Purusha  himself  as  a  victim.  And  in 
the  Bhagavata  Purana,  iL  6,  21 -26,556  which  is  a  paraphrase  of  this 
passage,  Brahma  is  made  to  say  that  he  derived  the  materials  of  sacri- 
fice from  Purusha' s  members,  and  immolated  that  being,  the  lord 
himself. 

It  is  not  very  easy  to  seize  the  precise  idea  which  is  expressed  in 
the  latter  part  of  this  singular  hymn,  the  Purusha  Sukta.  It  was 
evidently  produced  at  a  period  when  the  ceremonial  of  sacrifice  had 
become  largly  developed,  when  great  virtue  was  supposed  to  reside  in 
its  proper  celebration,  and  when  a  mystical  meaning  had  come  to  be 
attached  to  the  various  materials  and  instruments  of  the  ritual  as  well 
as  to  the  different  members  of  the  victim.  Penetrated  with  a  sense  of 
the  sanctity  and  efficacy  of  the  rite,  and  familiar  with  all  its  details, 
the  priestly  poet,  to  whom  we  owe  the  hymn,  has  thought  it  no  pro- 
fanity to  represent  the  supreme  Purusha  himself  as  forming  the  victim, 
whose  immolation  by  the  agency  of  the  gods  gave  birth,  by  its  trans- 
cendent power,  to  the  visible  universe  a'hd  all  its  inhabitants.557 

The  two  following  verses  in  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita  refer  to  Purusha : 

xxxi.  18  (=  SVetasvatara  Upanishad,  iii.  8) :  veddham  etam  Purusham 
mahanfam  aditya-varnam  tamasah  parastut  \  tarn  eva  m'fjitvd  'ti  mrityum 
eti  nunyah  panthuh  vidyate  ayanuya  \  "I  know  this  great  Purusha, 
resplendent  as  the  sun,  above  the  darkness.  It  is  by  knowing  him 

655  The  word  svayamlhu  does  not,  however,  always  signify  self-existence  in  the 
absolute  sense.  Thus  Kas'yapa  is  in  A.V.  xix.  53,  10,  called  svayambhu,  and  is  yet 
said  to  have  sprung  from  Kala  (time).  (See,  the  subsection  on  Kala,  further  on.) 

M«  See  the  4th  vol.iof  this  Work,  p.  9. 

657  Dr.  Haug,  when  treating  of  the  importance  attached  to  sacrifice  by  the  Brah- 
mans,  remarks  (Pref.  to  Ait.  Ar.  p.  73) :  "  The  creation  of  the  world  itself  was  even 
regarded  as  the  fruit  of  a  sacrifice  performed  by  the  Supreme  Being."  If  the  learned 
author  here  refers  to  the  Purusha  Sukta  it  would  have  been  more  exact  to  say  that 
the  creation  was  regarded  as  the  fruit  of  an  immolation  of  the  Supreme  Being.  But 
his  remark  may  be  justified  by  the  other  passages  I  have  cited. 


374  PUEUSHA. 

that  a  man  overpasses  death.  There  is  no  other  road  to  go."  5  !  (The 
Purusha  Sukta  occupies  verses  1-16  of  the  same  section  in  which  this 
verse  is  found.) 

xxxii.  2  :  sarve  nimeshdh  jajnire  vidyutah  Purushdd  adhi  \  nainam 
urdhvam  na  tiryancham  na  madhye  parijagralhat  \  "  All  winkings  of 
the  eye  have  sprung  from  Purusha,  the  resplendent.  No  one  has 
embraced  him  either  above,  or  below,  or^in  the  middle."  559 

The  A.Y.  contains  a  long  hymn  (x.  2)  on  the  subject  of  Purusha, 
which  does  not  throw  much  light  on  the  conception  of  his  character, 
but  contains  a  number  of  curious  ideas.  The  Deity  being  conceived 
and  described  in  this  hymn  as  the  Man,  or  Male  (Purusha) — the  great 
archetype  and  impersonation  of  that  active  energy  of  which  men  are 
the  feeble  representatives  upon  earth — the  poet  has  been  led  to  im- 
agine the  object  of  his  adoration  as  invested  with  a  visible  form,  and 
with  members  analogous  to  those  of  the  human  frame;  and  he  then 
goes  on  to  speculate  on  the  agency  by  w'hich  the  different  portions  of 
Purusha's  body  could  have  been  constructed,  and  the  source  from 
which  he  could  have  derived  the  various  attributes  through  which  he 
formed  the  universe,  and"  ordained  the  conditions  under  which  its 
several  departments  exist.  The  minute  questions  regarding  the  mem- 
bers of  Purusha  with  which  the  hymn  opens  may  have  been  suggested 
to  the  author  by  an  observation  of  the  curious  structure  of  the  human 
body,  and  by  the  wonder  which  that  observation  had  occasioned. 
Throughout  the  hymn  Purush/i  is  not  represented  as  a  self-existent, 
self-sufficient  Being,  but  as  dependent  on  other  gods  for  his  various 
powers  and  attributes.  The  details  are  too  tedious,  and  in  some  places 
too  obscure,  to  admit  of  my  giving  them  in  full,  but  I  shall  state  the 
substance,  and  Adduce  the  most  important  parts  more  or  less  'in  ex- 
tenso.  The  hymn  begins  thus  : — 

448  Compare  A.V.  vii.  53,  7  :  "  Ascending  from  the  darkness  to  the  highest  heaven 
we  have  reached  the  sun,  a  god  among  the  gods,  the  uppermost  light"  (ud  vayam 
tamasas  pari  rohanto  nakam  uttamam  \  devaiti  devatra  suryam  aganma  jyotir  utta- 
marn  [''compare  E.V:  i.  50,  10,  quoted  a'bove  in  p.  160). 

449  The  following  verse,  given  iij  the  Nirukta,  ii.  3,  is  from  the  S'vetas'vatara  Up- 
anishad,  iii.  9 :  "  This  entire  universe  is  filled  by  that  Purusha  to  whom  there  is 
nothing  superior,  from  whom  there  is  nothing  different,  than  whom  no  one  is  more 
minute  or  more  vast,  ard  who  alone,  fixed  like  a  tree,  abides  in  the  sky"  (yasmai 
param  naparam  asti  kinchid  yasmad  rianlyo  fia  jyayo  'sti  kaschit  \  vrikshah  iva 
stabdho  divi  tishthaty  ekas  tenedam  purnam  Purushena  sarvam). 


PURUSHA.  375 

1.  Kena  parshnl  dlhrite  Purushasya  kena  mdmsam  sambhritam  Icena 
gulphau  \  kendngull  pesanlh  kena  khdni  ....  |  2.  Gasman  nu  gulphdv 
adhardv  akrinvann  ashthlvantdv  uttarau  Purushasya  \  ....  4.  Kati 
devdh  katame  te  dsan  ye  uro  grivds  chikyuh  Purushasya  \  kati  stanau 
vyadadhuh  kah  kaphaudau  kati  skandhdn  kati  prishtlr  achinvan  \  6. 
Kah  sapta  khdni  vi  tatarda  strshani  karndv  imau  ndsike  chaksham  mu- 
kham  \  ....  9.  Priydpriydni*  lahuld  svapnam  samlddha-tandryah  \ 
dnanddn  ugro  nanddms  cha  kasmdd  vahati  Purushah  \  drtir  avartir 
nirritih  kuto  nu  Purushe  'matih  \  rddhih  samridhih  \  ....  12.  Ko 
asmin  rupam  adadhdt  ko  mahmdnam  cha  ndma  cha  \  gdtum  ko  asmin  ko 
ketum  kas  charitrdni  Purushe  \  13.  Ko  asmin  prdnam  avayat  ko  apdnam 
vydnam  u  \  samdnam  asmin  ko  devo  adhi  sisrdya  Purushe  \  14.  Ko  asmin 
yajnam  adadhdd  eko  devo  adhi  Purushe  \  ko  asmin  satyani  ko  'nritam  kuto 
mrityuh  kuto  'mritam  \  15.  Ko  asmai  vdsah  paryadhdt  ko  asydyur 
akalpayat  \  lalam  ko  asmai  prdyachhat  ko  asydkalpayaj  javam  \  16. 
Kendpo  anvatanuta  kendhar  akarod  ruche  \  ushasam  kena  anvaindha  kena 
sdyanibhavam  dadhe  \  17.  Ko  asmin  reto  ny adadhdt  tantur  dtdyatdm 
iti  |  medhdm  ko  asminn  adhyauhat  .  .  .  .  |  18.  Kena  imam  Ihumim 
aurnot  kena  paryalhavad  divam  \  kendlhi  mahnd  parvatdn  kena  karmdni 
Purushah  \  24.  Keneyam  Ihumir  vihitd  kena  dyaur  uttard  hitd  \  kenedam 
urdhvaih  tiryak  cha  antarikshaih  vyacho  hitam  \  25.  Brahmand  Ihumir 
vihitd  Brahma  dyaur  uttard  hitd  \  Brahmedam  urdhvam  tiryak  cha 
antariksham  vyacho  hitam  |  ....  28.  Urdhvo  nu  srishtds  tiryan  nu 
srishtdh  sarvdh,  disah  Purushah  d  labhutfa  \  puram  yo  Brahmano  veda 
yasydh  Purushah  uchyate  \  29.  Yo  vai  tdm  Brahmano  veda  amritendvri- 
tdm  puram  \  tasmai  Brahma  cha  Irdhmds  cha  chakshuh  prdnam  prajdm 
daduh  |  30/JVa  vai  tarn  chakshur  jahdti  na  prdno  jarasah  purd  \  puram 
yo  Brahmano  veda  yasydh  Purushah  uchyate  \  31.  Ashtdchakrd  nava- 
dvdrd  devdndm  pur  ayodhyd  \  tasydm  hiranyayah  kosah  svargah  jyotishd- 
vritah  \  32.  Tasmin  hiranyaye  kose  tryare  tripratishthite  \  tasmin  yad 
yaksham  dtmanvat  tad  vai  Irahma-vido  viduh  \  38.  Pralhrdjamdndm 
harinlm  yasasd  sampanvritdm  \  puram  hiranyaylm  Brahma  dvivssd- 
pardjitdm  \  , 

"  1.  By  whom  were  the  heels  of  Purusha  produced  ?  By  whom  was 
his  flesh  brought  together  ?  By  whom  were  his  ancles,  by  whom  were 
his  fingers  and  his  muscles,  m&de  ?  By  whom  the  apertures  of  his 
body  ?  .  .  .  2.  From  what  did  they  construct  his  ancles  below  and 


376  PUEUSHA. 

his  knees  above  ? "  After  similar  question  about  his  legs,  thighs, 
trunk,  etc.,  the  author  proceeds:  "4.  How  many  and  who  were  the 
gods  who  joined  together  the  chest  and  the  neck  of  Purusha  ?  How 
many  formed  his  breasts,  who  his  elbows  ?  (?)  How  many  connected 
his  shoulders  and  ribs  ?  ....  6.  Who  opened  the  seven  apertures  in 
his  head,  these  ears,  nostrils,  eyes,  and.  mouth?  .  .  .  ."  "Whence," 
asks  the  poet  (verse  9),  "does  the  glorious  Purusha  bring  many  things 
pleasant  and  unpleasant,  sleep,  fear,  fatigue,  and  various  kinds  of 
enjoyments  ?  10.  How  do  suffering,  distress,  evil,  as  well  as  success 
and  opulence,  exist  in  Purusha  ?  . . . .  12.  Who  assigned  to  him  form,560 
magnitude,  name,560  motion,  and  consciousness,  (13)  and  what  god  put 
into  him  the  different  vital  airs?  14.  What  one  god  placed  in  him 
sacrifice,  truth,  and  falsehood  ?  Whence  come  death  and  immortality  ? 
15.  Who  clothed  him  with  a  garment  ?  Who  created  his  life  ?  Who  gave 
him  strength  and  speed?  16.  Through  whom  did  he  spread  out  the 
waters,  cause  the  day  to  shine,  kindle  the  dawn,  bring  on  the  twilight  ? 
17.  Who  placed  in  him  seed,  that  the  thread  (of  being)  might  be  con" 
tinued  ?  Who  imparted  to  him  understanding  ?  ....  18.  Through 
whom  did  he  envelope  the  earth,  surround  (or  transcend)  the  sky, 
surpass  by  his  greatness  the  mountains  and  all  created  things  ?  24. 
By  whom  was  this  earth  made,  and  the  sky  placed  above  ?  By  whom 
was  this  expanse  of  atmosphere  raised  aloft  and  stretched  across  ?  25. 
The  earth  was  made  by  Brahma,  and  Brahma  is  placed  above  as  the 
sky.  Brahma  is  the  expanse  of  atmosphere,  raised  aloft  and  stretched 
across.  28.  Purusha,  who  is  on  high,  has  pervaded  all  the  regions 
which  are  extended  aloft  and  across  (quoted  with  variations  in  Taitt. 
Ar.  i.  27,  3,  p.  168).  (  He  who  knows  the  city  (pur]  of  Brahma  from 
which  Purusha  is  named,  (29)  who  knows  that  city  of  Brahma,  invested 
with  immortality;  to  him  Brahma  and  Brahma's  sons  have  given  sight, 

560  Here,  as  above  noticed  (p.  166,  note),  we  have  the  nama  and  rupa  of  the 
Vedantists.  Compare  Taitt.  Brah.  ii.  2,  7,  1  :  Prajapatih  prajah  asrijata  \  tah 
srishtah  samashkrishyan  (in  p.  444  'the  word  .is  printed  samaslishyan)  \  tah  rupena 
anupravis'at  \  tasmad  ahuh  "rfipam  vai  Prajapatir"  iti  \  tah  namna  'nupravisat  \ 
tasmad  ahur  " nama  vai  Prajapatir"  iti  \  "  Prajapati  created  living  beings.  They> 
however,  were  in  a  shapeless  state.  He  entered  ipto  them  with  form.  Hence,  men 
say  '  Prajapati  is  form.'  He  entered  into  them  with  name.  Hence,  men  say  '  Praja- 
pati is  name.'  "  Compare  the  same  Brahmt-na,  iii.  10,  5,  1,  and  iii.  12,  7,  5.  See 
M.  Langlois'  note  on  the  word  nama  in  R.V.  x.  73,  8,  vol.  iv.  p.  493  of  his  trans- 
lation of  the  Eig-veda. 


PURUSHA.  377 

and  breath,  and  progeny.  30.  Neither  sight  nor  breath  abandons 
before  [the  term  of  natural]  decay  the  man  who  knows  the  city  of 
Brahma,  from  which  Purusha  is  named.  31.  Within  that  impregnable 
city  of  the  gods  (compare  puram  devdndm  amritam  hiranyam,  A.Y.  v. 
28,  11 ;  and  Mahabharata,  xiv.  987  if.),  which  has  eight  circles  (com- 
pare A.V.  xi.  4,  22)  and  nine  'gates,  there  exists  a  golden  receptacle, 
celestial,  invested,  with  light.  *  32.  Those  acquainted  with  Brahma 
(divine  science,  or  the  Deity)  know  that  living  being  which  resides  in 
this  golden  receptacle  with  three  spokes,  and  triple  supports.561  33. 
Brahma  has  entered  into  the  impregnable  golden  city,  resplendent, 
bright,  invested  with  renown." 

In  the  S'atap.  Br.  xiii.  6,  1,  1  (see  vol.  iv.  of  this  "Work,  p.  25),  the 
word  Narayana  is  coupled  with  Purusha,  and  it  is  said  that  this  being 
desired  to  surpass  all  beings,  and  become  himself  the  entire  universe, 
and  that  he  accomplished  his  object  by  celebrating  the  Purushamedha 
sacrifice.  Purusha  Narayana  is  again  mentioned  in  the  same  Brah- 
mana  (xii.  3,  4,  1)  as  receiving  instruction  from  Prajapati :  Purusham 
ha  Ndrdyanam  Prajdpatir  uvdcha  "  yajasva  yajasva  "  iti  \  sa  ha  uvdcha 
11 ' yajasva  yajasva1  iti  vdva  tvam  mam  dttlia  \  trir  ayakshi  \  Vasavah 
prdtah-savanena  aguh  Rudrdh  mddhyandinena  savanena  Adityds  tritlya- 
savanena  atha  mama  yajna-vdstv  eva  yajna-vdstdv  eva  aham  dsa  "  iti  \ 
sa  ha  uvacha  "yajasva  eva  \  aham  vai  te  tad  vakshydmi  yathd  te  uldlia.nl 
manir  iva  sutre  otdni  bhavishyanti  sutram  iva  vd  mandv  "  iti  \  "Praja- 
pati said  to  Purusha  Narayana,  '  Sacrifice,  sacrifice.'  He  replied, 
'  Thou  sayest  to  me,  Sacrifice,  sacrifice.  I  have  sacrificed  thrice.  By 
the  morning  oblation  the  Vasus  came,  by  the  mid-day  oblation  the 
Eudras  o^me,  and  by  the  third  oblation  the  Adityas  came  to  my  place 
of  sacrifice,  where  I  was.'  Prajapati  rejoined,  '  Sacrifice ;  I  will  tell 
thee  how  thy  hymns  shall  be  strung  like  a  gem  on  a  thread,  or  as  a 
thread  in  a  gem.'  " 

561  One  line  of  A.V.  x.  8,  43  (quoted  in  the  next  subsection),  is  identical  witbone 
line  of  this  verse,  though*  the  other  line  is  different.  The  whole  runs  thus  :  "  The 
knowers  of  brahma  know  that  living  heing  which  resides  in  the  lotus  with  nine 
gates,  invested  with  the  three  ^qualities  "  (tribhir  gunebhir  avritam}.  Eoth,  s.v. 
puna,  translates  the_last  three  words  by  "  triply  enveloped,"  and  refers  in  support 
of  this  sense  to  verses  29  and  32  of  ihe  hymn  before  us,  and  to  Chhiindogya  Up- 
anishad,  viii.  1,1.  It  is  possible,  however,  that  there  may  be  h^re  a  first  reference 
to  the  three  gunas  afterwards  so  celebrated  in  Indian  philosophical  speculation. 


378  SKAMBHA  AND  BRAHMA. 

(7)  Skamlha  and  Brahma. 

In  the  following  hymn  of  the  A.V.  (x.  7)  the  Supreme  Deity 
appears  to  be  celebrated  under  the  appellation  of  Skambha  (or  Sup- 
port).562 Though  it  is  rather  tedious,  I  shall  translate  it  nearly  in 
full,  as  these  ancient  guesses  after  truth  no  doubt  contain  the  germ  of 
some  of  the  later  speculations  on  th^  same  topics.  In  the  first  part 
(verses  1-6,  10-12)  Skambha  is  considered  (like  Purusha,  with  whom 
he  seems  to  be  identified,  verse  15)  as  a  vast  embodied  being,  co- 
extensive with  the  universe,  and  comprehending,  in  his  several  mem- 
bers, not  only  the  different  parts  of  the  material  world,  but  a  variety 
of  abstract  conceptions,  such  as  austere  fervour  (tapas),  faith,  truth, 
and  the  divisions  of  time.  He  is  distinct  from,  and  superior  to,  Praja- 
pati,  who  founds  the  worlds  upon  him  (verses  7,  8,  17).  The  thirty- 
three  gods  are  comprehended  in  him  (verses  13,  22,  and  27),  and  arose 
out  of  nonentity,  which  forms  his  highest  member,  and,  as  well  as 
entity,  is  embraced  within  him  (verses  10,  25).  The  gods  who  form 
part  of  him,  as  branches  of  a  tree  (verse  38),  do  him  homage,  and 
bring  him  tribute  (verse  39).  He  is  identified  with  Indra  (in  verses 
29  and  30) ;  and  perhaps  also  with  the  highest  Brahma,  who  is  men- 
tioned in  verses  32-34,  36,  and  in  the  first  verse  of  the  next  hymn, 
x.  8,  1.  In  verse  36,  however,  this  Brahma  is  represented  as  being 
born  (or,  perhaps,  developed)  from  toil  and  tapas,  whilst  in  x.  8,  1,  the 
attributes  of  the  Supreme  Deity  are  assigned  to  him.  In  compositions 
of  this  age,  however,  we  are  not  to  expect  very  accurate  or  rigorous 
thinking,  or  perfect  consistency  : — 

1.  Kasminn  ange  tapo  asyddhi  tishthati  kasminn  ange  rit'am  asya  adhy 
dhitam  \  kva  vratam  k'va  sraddhd  'sya  tishthati  kasminn  ange  saiyam  asya 
pratishthitam  \  2.  Kasmad  angdd  dlpyate  agnir  asya  kasmdd  angdt 
pavate  mdtarisvd  \  kasmad  angdd  vi  mimlte  'dhi  chandramdh  mahah 
Skambhasya  mimdno  angam  \  3.  Kasminn  ange  tishthati  bhumir  asya 
kas,minn  ange  tishthati  antariks\am  \  kasminn  ange  tishthati  dhitd  dyauh 
kasminn  ange  tishthati  uttaram  divah  \  4.  Kva  pfopsan  dlpyate  urdhvo 

agnih  kva  prepsan  pavate  mdtarisvu  \  yatra  prepsantlr  abhi  yanti  dvritah 

r 

662  This  word  occilvs  in  E.V.  viii.  41,  10  :  sa  dliama  purvy&i  mame  yah  skam- 
bhena  vi  rodasl  ajo  na  dijam  adharayat  \  "  He  formed  the  first  abode,  he  who  with  a 
prop  (skambha)  held  apart  the  two  worlds,  like  the  unborn." 


SKAMBHA  AND  BRAHMA.  379 

Skambham  tarn  bruhi  katamah  svid  eva  sah  \  5.  Kva  ardhamdsdh  kva 
yanti  mdsdh  samvatsarena  saha  samviddndh  \  yatra  yanti  ritavo  yatra 
drtavdh  Skambham  tarn  bruhi — |  6.  Kva  prepsantl  yuvatl  virupe 
ahordtre  dravatah  samviddne  \  yatra  prepsantlr  abhiyanti  dpah  Skam- 
bham  —  |  7.  Yasmin  stabdhvd  Prajdpatir  lokdn  sarvdn  adhdrayat  \ 
Skambham — |  8.  Yat  paramam  avamam  yach  cha  madhyamam  Prajd- 
patih  sasrije  visvarupam  \  kiyatdt  Skambhah  pravivesa  tatra  yan  na 
prdvisat  kiyat  tad  babhuva  \  9.  Kiyatd  Skambhah  pravivesa  bhutam 
kiyad  bhavishyad  anu  dsaye  'sya  \  ekam  yad  angam  akrinot  sahasradhd 
Tciyatd  SJcambhah  pravivesa  tatra  \  10.  Yatra  lokdihs  cha  kosdms  cha  apo 
brahmajandh  viduh  \  asach  cha  yatra  sachchdntah  Skambham  tarn  briihi 
hatamah  svid  eva  sah  \  11.  Yatra  tapah  pardlcramya  vratam  dhdrayaty 
uttaram  \  ritam  cha  yatra  sraddhd  cha  dpo  brahma  samdhitd  Skambham 
— |  12.  Yasmin  bhumir  antariksham  dyaur  yasminn  adhydhitd  \  yat- 
rdgnis  chandramdh  suryo  vdtas  tishjhanti  drpitd  Skambham — |  13. 
Yasya  trayastrimsad  devdh  ange  Sarve  samdhitdh  \  Skambham — |  14. 
Yatra  rishayah  prathamajdh  richah  sdma  yajur  mahl  \  ekarshir  yasminn 
drpitah  Skambham — |  15.  Yatrdmntam  cha  mrityus  cha  Purushe  'dhi 
samdhite  \  samudro  yasya  nddyah  Purushe  'dhi  samdhitd  Skambham — | 
16.  Yasya  chatasrah  pradiso  nddyas  tishthanti  prathamdh  \  yajno  yatra 
pardkrdntah  Skambham — |  17.  Ye  Purushe  Brahma  vidus  te  viduh 
Parameshthinam  \  yo  veda  Parameshthinam  yas  cha  veda  Prajdpatim  \ 
jyestham  ye  brdhmanam  vidus  te  Skambham  anu  samviduh  \  18.  Yasya 
siro  Vaisvdnaras  chakshur  Angiraso  'bhavan  \  angdni  yasya  Ydtavah 
Skambham — |  19.  Yasya  brahma  mukham  dhur  jihvdm  madhukasdm 
uta  |  virdjam  udho  yasydhuh  Skambham — |  20.  Yasmdd  richo  apdta- 
kshan  yajur  yasmdd  apdkashan  \  sdmdni  yasya  lomdni  atharvdngiraso 
mukham  \  ^Skambham — |  21.  Asachchhdkhdm  pratishthantwi  paramam 
iva  jandh  viduh  \  uto  san  manyante  'vare  ye  te  sdkhdm  updsate  \  22. 
Yatrddityds  cha  Rudrds  cha  Vasavas  cha  samdhitdh  \  bhutam  cha  yatra 
bhavyam  cha  sarve  lokdh  pratishthitdh  \  Skambham — |  23.  Yasya  tra- 
yastrimsad devdh  nidhim  rakshanti  sarvada  \  nidhim  tarn  adya  ko  veddi 
yam  devdh  abhiraJcshathcf  \  24.  Yatra  devdh  brahmavido  Brahma  jyesh- 
tham  updsate  \  yo^vai  tan  vidydt  pratyaksham  sa  brahmd  veditd  sydt  \ 
25.  Brihanto  ndma  te  devdh  *ye  'satah  parijajnire  \  ekam  tad  angam 
Skambhasya  asad  ahuh  paro  jantih»{  26.  Yatra  SJcambhah  prajanayan 
purdnam  vyavartayat  \  ekam  tad  angam  Skambhasya  purdnam  anu 


380  SKAMBHA  AND  BRAHMA. 

samviduh  \  27.  Yasya  trayastrimsad  devdh  ange  gdtrd  vi  Ihejire  \ 
tun  vai  trayastrimsad  devdn  eke  Irahmavido  viduh  \  28.  Hiranya- 
aarbham  paramam  anatyudyam  jandh  viduh  \  Skamlhas  tad  agre  prd- 
sinchad  hiranyam  lake  antard  \  29.  Skamlhe  lokdh  Skamlhe  tapah 
Skambhe  'dhy  ritam  dhitam  \  Skambha  tvd  veda  pratyaksham  Indre 
ear-yarn  samdhitam  \  30.  Indre  lokdh  Indre  tapah  Indre  'dhy  ritam 
dhitam  \  Indram  (Indra  ?)  tvd  vlda  pratyaksham  Skambhe  sarvam 
pratishthitam  \  31.  Ndmnd  ndma  johavlti  purd  surydt  puroshasah  \ 
yad  ajah  prathamam  samlabhuva  sa  ha  tat  svardjyam  iydya  yasmdn 
ndnyat  param  asti  bhutam  \  32.  Yasya  Ihumih  pramd  antariksham 
utodaram  \  divam  yas  chakre  murdhdnam  tasmai  jyeshthdya  Brahmane 
namah  \  33.  Yasya  Suryas  chakshus  chandramds  cha  punar  navah  I 
Agnim  ya£  chakre  dsyam  tasmai —  |  34.  Yasya  vdtah  prdndpdnam 
chakshur  Angiraso  'bhavan  \  diso  yas  chakre  prajndms  tasmai  jyesthdya 
Brahmane  namah  \  35.  Skambho  dadhdra  dydvd-prithivl  ulhe  ime  Skam- 
bho  dadhdra  urv  antariksham  \  Skambho  dadhdra  pradisah  shad  urvlh 
Skambhah  idam  visvam  bhuvanam  a  vivesa  \  36.  Yah  sramdt  tapaso  jdto 
lokdn  sarvdn  samdnase  \  Somam  yas  chakre  kevalaih  tasmai  jyeshthdya 
Brahmane  namah  \  37.  liatham  vdto  nelayati  katham  na  ramate  manah  \ 
kim  dpah  satyam  prepsantlr  nelayanti  kaddchana  \  38.  JSfahad  yaksham 
bhuvanasya  madhye  tapasi  krdntam  salilasya  prishthe  \  tasmin  srayante 
ye  u  ke  cha  devdh  vrikshasya  skandhah  paritah  iva  sdkhdh  \  39.  Yasmai 
hastdbhydm  pdddbhydm  vdchd  srotrena  chakshushd  \  yasmai  devdh  sadd 
balim  prayachhanti  vimite''mitam  \  Skamlham  tarn  Iruhi  katamah  svid 
eva  sa  \  40.  Apa  tasya  hatam  tamo  vydvrittah  sa  pdpmand  \  sarvdni 
tasmin  jyotlmshi  ydni  trmi  Prajdpatau  \  41.  Yo  vetasam  hiranyayarii 
tishthantam,salile  veda  \  sa  vai  guhyah  Prajdpatih  |  ,. 

"1.  In  what  member  of  his  does  austere  fervour  stand  ?  In 
which  is  the  ceremonial  contained?  In  what  parts  do  religious  ob- 
servance and  faith  abide  ?  In  what  member  is  truth  established  ?  2. 
From  what  member  does  Agni  blaze  ?  From  which  does  Matarisvan 
(the  wind)  blow  ?  From  which  does  the  moon  pursue  her  course, 
traversing  the  mighty  body  of  Skambha?  3.  In  what  member  does 
the  earth  reside?  In  which  the  atmosphere?  In*which  is  the  sky 
placed,  and  in  ;which  the  space  above  the  sky  ?  4.  Whither  tending, 
does  the  upward  fire  blaze  ?  Whither  tending,  does  the  wind  blow  ? 
Tell  who  is  that  Skambha  to  whom  the  paths  tend,  and  into  whom 


SKAMBHA  AND  BRAHMA.  381 

they  enter.  5.  Whither  tending,  do  the  half-months  and  the  months, 
in  concert  with  the  year,  proceed  ?  Tell  who  is  that  Skambha  to 
whom  the  seasons  and  other  divisions  of  the  year  advance.  6.  "Whither 
tending,  do  the  two  young  females  of  diverse  aspects,  the  day  and  the 
night,  hasten  in  unison  ?  Tell  who  is  that  Skambha  to  whom  the 
waters  tend  and  go  ?  7.  Who  is*  that  Skambha  on  whom  Prajapati  has 
supported  and  established  all  the*worlds  ?  8.  How  far  did  Skambha 
penetrate  into  that  highest,  lowest,  and  middle  universe,  comprehend- 
ing all  forms,  which  Prajapati  created  ?  And  how  much  of  it  was 
there  which  he  did  not  penetrate?  9.  How  far  did  Skambha  pene- 
trate into  the  past  ?  and  how  much  of  the  future  is  contained  in  his 
receptacle  ?  How  far  did  Skambha  penetrate  into  that  one  member 
which  he  separated  into  a  thousand  parts  ?  10.  Tell  who  is  that 
Skambha  in  whom  men  recognize  the  worlds  and  receptacles,  the 
waters  and  divine  thought  [as  existing],  and  within  whom  are  non- 
entity and  entity;  (11)  in  whom  austere  fervour  (tapas),  energizing, 
maintains  its  highest  action  (vrat(£),  in  whom  the  ceremonial,  faith, 
the  waters,  and  divine  science  are  comprehended  ;  (12)  in  whom 
earth,  atmosphere,  sky,  fire,  moon,  sun,  and  wind  are  placed ;  (13)  in 
whose  body  all  the  thirty-three  gods  are  contained;563  (14)  in  whom 
the  earliest  Eishis,  the  Eik,  the  Saman,  the  Yajush,  the  earth,  and  the 
one  Eishi  reside ;  (15)  that  Purusha,  in  whom  immortality  and  death 
are  comprehended;  who  has  the  ocean  within  him  as  his  veins;  (16) 
that  Skambha,  of  whom  the  four  regions  are  the  primeval  arteries,  and 
in  whom  sacrifice  displays  its  energy.  17.  They  who  know  the  divine 
essence  (brahma]  in  Purusha,  know  Parameshthin.364  He  who  knows 
Paramesh^hin,  and  he  who  knows  Prajap*ati —  they  wljo  know  the 
highest  divine  mystery  (braJimana) 565  know  in  consequence  Skambha. 
18.  Tell  who  is  that  Skambha  of  whom  Vaisvanara  (Agni)  is  the  head, 
the  Angirases  the  eye,  and  the  Yatus  (demons)  are  the  limbs  ;  (19)  of 
whom  they  say  divine  knowledge  (IraJima)  is  the  mouth,  the  Madhu- 
kasa 566  the  tongue,  and  the  Viraj  the  'adder ;  (20)  from  whom  they 

563  See  Dr.  Haug's  Essay  on  the  sacred  language  of*the  Parsees,  p.  233. 

*e*  Son  of  Prajapati  according^to  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  1,  6,  14,  16;  gives  sacrifice  to 
Prajapati,  Taitt.  S.  i.  6,  9,  2.  See  Comm.  there,  p.  914. 

s«  See  verses  20,  33,  and  37  of  A.V.  K.  8,  to  be  quoted  below* 

s86  I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Aufrecht  for  an  explanation  of  this  word,  and  an 
indication  of  some  passages  in  which  it  is  mentioned.  In  R.V.  i.  22,  3,  and  i.  157,  4, 


382  SKAMBHA  AND  BRAHMA. 

hewed  off  the  Eik  verses,  and  cut  off  the  Yajus ;  of  whom  the  Sama 
verses  are  the  hairs,  and  the  Atharvangirases  (i.e.  the  Atharva-veda) 
the  mouth.567  21.  Men  regard  the  branch  of  nonentity,568  which  is 
prominent,  as  if  it  were  paramount ;  and  inferior  men,  as  many  as 
worship  thy  branch,  regard  it  as  an  entity.  22.  Tell  who  is  that 
Skambha  in  whom  the  Adityas,  Eudras,  and  Vasus  are  contained,  on 
whom  the  past,  the  future,  and  all  worlds  are  supported ;  (23)  whose 
treasure  the  thirty-three  gods  continually  guard.  "Who  now  knows 
the  treasure  which  ye  guard,  o  gods  ?  24.  "Where  the  gods,  the 
knowers  of  sacred  science  (brahma],  worship  the  highest  divine  essence 
(brdhma) ; — the  priest  (Irahma)  who  knows  these  [gods]  face  to  face 
will  be  a  sage.  25.  Mighty  indeed  are  those  gods  who  have  sprung 
from  nonentity.  Men  say  that  that  nonentity  is  one,  the  highest, 
member  of  Skambha  (compare  v.  10,  above).  26.  Where  Skambha 
generating,  brought  the  Ancient  (j>urana]  into  existence,  they  con- 
sider that  that  Ancient  is  one  member  of  Skambha,  (27)  in  whose 
members  the  thirty-three  gods  found  their  several  bodies.  Some 


the  As'vins  are  said  to  have  a  honied  whip,  kasa  madhumati,  with  which  they  are  he- 
sought  to  sprinkle  the  worshippers,  or  their  sacrifice.  The  Maruts  are  also  said,  in 
R.V.  i.  37,  3,  and  i.  168,  4,  to  have  whips,  though  they  are  not  said  to  he  honied. 
In  the  Nighantu,  however,  the  sense  of  speech  is  ascribed  to  Kasa  ;  and  a  mystical 
signification  is  also  assigned  to  the  word  madhu,  honey,  which  Dadhyanch  is  said, 
E.V.  i.  116,  12,  and  i.  117,  22,  to  have  made  known  to  the  As'vins.  This  is  explained 
by  Sayana  on  these  two  passages"as  meaning  that  he  gave  them  a  Brahmana  reveal- 
ing the  Madhuvidya ;  and  Mahidhara,  on  Vaj.  S.  7, 11,  understands  the  kasa  madhu- 
mafi  as  referring  to  this  mystic  lore.  This  Madhukas  a  is  celebrated  at  considerable 
length  in  A.V.  ix.  1,  where  it  is  said  that  she  "sprang  from  the  sky,  the  earth,  the 
air,  the  sea,  fire,  and  wind,"  and  that  "all  creatures,  worshipping  her  w,ho  dwells  in 
immortality,  rejoice  in  their  hearts  "  (divas  prithivyah  antarikshat  samudrad  agner 
vatad  madhukas'a  vi  jajne  \  tarn  chayitva  amritam  vasanam  hridbhih  prajah  prati 
nandanti  sarvah}.  In  verses  3,  10,  she  is  said  to  be  the  "brilliant  grand-daughter 
of  the  Maruts"  (Marutam  ugra  naptih),  and  in  verse  4,  to  be  the  "mother  of  the 
Adityas,  the  daughter  of  the  Vasus,  the  life  of  creatures,  and  the  centre  of  immor- 
tality" (mata  "dityanam  duhita  Vasunam  pranah  prajanam  amritasya  nabhih}. 

*67  Compare  A.Y.  ix.  6,  1  :  "  He'who  clearly  knows  Brahma,  of  whom  the  mate- 
rials of  sacrifice  are  the  joints,  the  Rik-verses  are  the  backbone,  the  Sama-verses  the 
hairs,  the  Yajus  is  said  to  be  the  heart,  and  the  oblation  the  covering  "  (yo  vidyad 
Brahma  parumshi  yasya  sambharah  richo  yasyat  anukyam  |  samani  yasya  lomani 
yajur  hridayam  uchy-ate  paristaranam  id  havih). 

568  The  sense  of  this  verse  is  obscure,  and 'it  does  not  seem  to  be  very  closely  con- 
nected either  with  what  precedes  or  with  what  follows.  I  have  adopted  partly  the 
rendering  suggested  by  Professor  Aufrecht. 


SKAMBHA  AND  BRAHMA.  383 

possessors  of  sacred  knowledge  know  those  thirty-three  gods.  28. 
Men  know  Hiranyagarbha  K9  to  be  supreme  and  ineffable.  Skambha 
in  the  beginning  shed  forth  that  gold  (hiranya,  out  of  which  Hiranya- 
garbha arose)  in  the  midst  of  the  world.  29.  In  Skambha  are  con- 
tained the  worlds,  austere  fervour,  and  the  ceremonial.  Skambha,  I 
clearly  know  thee  to  be  contained  entire  in  Indra.  30.  In  Indra  are 
contained  the  worlds,  austere  feYvour,  and  the  ceremonial.  Indra, 
I  clearly  know  thee  to  be  contained  entire  in  Skambha.  31.  (The 
worshipper)  repeatedly  invokes  the  [god  who  bears  the  one]  name  by 
the  name  [of  the  other  god]  before  the  sun,  before  the  dawn.570  When 
the  Unborn  first  sprang  into  being,  he  attained  to  that  independent 
dominion,  than  that  which  nothing  higher  has  ever  been.  32.  Reve- 
rence be  to  that  greatest  Brahma,  of  whom  the  earth  is  the  basis,  the 
atmosphere  the  belly,  who  made  the  sky  his  head,  (33)  of  whom  the 
sun  and  the  ever-renewed  moonr  are  the  eye;  who  made  Agni  his 
mouth,  (34)  of  whoih  the  wind  formed  two  of  the  vital  airs,  and  the 
Angirases  the  eye,  who  made  the  regions  his  organs  of  sense.571  35. 
Skambha  established  both  these  [worlds],  earth  and  sky,  the  wide 
atmosphere,  and  the  six  vast  regions;  Skambha  pervaded  this  entire 
universe.  36.  Reverence  to  that  greatest  Brahma  who,  born  from 
toil  and  austere  fervour  (tapas\  penetrated  all  the  worlds,  who  made 
soma  for  himself  alone. 5;a  37.  How  is  it  that  the  wind  does  not 
rest  ?  How  is  ;not  the  soul  quiescent  ?  "Why  do  not  the  waters, 
seeking  after  truth,  ever  repose  ?  38.  The  great  being  [is]  absorbed 
in  austere  fervour  in  the  midst  of  the  world,  on  the  surface  of  the 
waters.  To  him  all  the  gods  are  joined,  as  the  branches  around  the 
trunk  of  %  tree.  39.  Say  who  is  that  Skambha  to  whom  the  gods, 
with  hands,  feet,  voice,  ear,  eye,  present  continually  an  unlimited 
tribute.573  40.  By  him  darkness  is  dispelled  ;  he  is  free  from  evil ;  in 
him  are  all  the  three  luminaries  which  reside  in  Prajapati.  41.  He 

669  See  above,  p.  355. 

470  The  meaning  of  this,  as  suggested  by  Professor  Aufrecht,  is,  that  by  invoking 
Indra,  the  worshipper  really  worships  Skambha. 

s71  Compare  Bohtlingk  and  Rotb('s  Lexicon,  vol.  v.  p.  1616,  s.v.  prajnana. 

572  Such  is  the  sense  according  to  Roth,  s.v.  kevala.  , 

473  Compare  A.V.  x.  8,  15  .  ..."  the  great  being  in  the  midst  of  the  world :  to 
him  the  rulers  of  realms  bring  tribute"  (mahad  yaksham  bhuvanasya  madhye  tasmai 
balim  rashtrabhrito  bharanti). 


384  SKAMBHA  AND  BRAHMA. 

who  knows  the  golden  reed  standing  in  the  waters  is  the  mysterious 
Prajapati."  574 

I  have  been  favoured  with  the  following  note  on  the  subject  of  A.Y. 
x.  7,  by  Professor  Goldstiicker,  whom  I  consulted  as  to  the  sense  of 
verse  21  and  the  idea  conveyed  by  the  word  Skambha,  which  forms  the 
subject  of  the  hymn  : — 

"  The  sense  of  skambJia  is,  in  my  opinion,  the  same  as  that  given  in 
your  Original  Sanskrit  Texts,  vol.  iv.  pp.  17,  18 — skambh  and  stambh 
being  merely  phonetic  varieties  of  the  same  dhatu  —  and  skamlha, 
therefore,  the  same  as  stamlha.  It  is  the  'fulcrum,'  and  in  the 
Atharva-veda  hymns,  x.  7  and  8,  seems  to  mean  the  fulcrum  of  the 
whole  world,  in  all  its  physical,  religious,  and  other  aspects.  The 
object  of  the  hymn  being  to  inquire  what  this  fulcrum  is,  from  the 
answer  given  to  the  various  questions  it  seems  to  follow  that  it  is  there 
imagined  to  be  the  primitive  deity,  or  the  primitive  Yeda,  the  word 
brahman  in  the  neuter  implying  both.  From  this  primitive  Veda,  not 
visibly  but  really  (sat}  existing,  not  only  all  the  gods,  worlds,  religious 
rites,  etc.  (verses  1,  2  ff.,  19  ff.)  were  derived,  but  also  the  existing 
three  Vedas  (v.  14)  and  the  Atharvan  were  'fashioned'  (verse  20). 
This  skamlha  is,  therefore,  also  jyeshtham  brahma  (verses  24,  32,  33, 
34,  36, — 8,  1),  and  it  has  a  corresponding  preseval/yesMam  brdhmanam 
(verse  17).  Hence,  while  he  who  knows  the  (existing)  Veda,  has  also 
a  knowledge  of  Brahma, — he  who  knows  Brahma  and  also  Prajapati, 
and  (hence)  possesses  a  knowledge  of  the  preaeval  Brahmana  portion 
(of  the  preaeval  Veda),  may  infer  (anu)  from  such  knowledge  a  know- 
ledge of  the  Skambha  or  that  of  the  preaeval  Veda  itself  (verse  17). 
This  prea3val  Veda  is  the  'treasure'  which  is  kept  by 'the  gods  only 
(verse  23) ;  hence,  the  Atharva-veda  priest  (brahma),  who  has  a  know- 
ledge of  those  god-guardians  of  the  prea?val  Veda,  has  the  knowledge 
(or,  he  who  has  such  a  knowledge,  is  a  (true)  Atharva-veda  priest, 
verse  24).  From  this,  then,  it  would  likewise  follow  that  the  existing 

574  In  the  R.V.  x.  95,  4,  5  (compare  Nirukta,  iii.  21);  and  S'atap.  Br.  si.  5,  1,  1, 
the  word  vaitasa  has  the  senyj  of  membrum  virile.  Are  we  to  understand  the  word 
vetasa  (reed)  in  the  same  sense  here,  as  denoting  a  Linga  ?  The  words  vetaso  hiran- 
yayah  are  also  found  in  R.V.  iv.  58,  5 :  "I  beLold  the  streams  of  butter  (ghrita) ; 
iu  the  midst  of  thefii  is  the  golden  reed  (hiranyayo  vetasuh),"  which  the  commentator 
interprets  as  meaning  ap-sambhavo  'gnir  vaidyutah,  the  "  fire  of  the  lightning  pro- 
duced in  the  aerial  waters." 


SKAMBHA  AND   BRAHMA.  385 

three  Vedas  are  merely  portions  of  the  preaeval  Veda,  whence  they 
were  derived,  or,  to  adhere  to  the  metaphor,  branches  of  that  tree- 
fulcrum  (compare  verse  38) ;  and,  moreover,  that  while  skambha  is  the 
reality,  these  branch  vedas  are  not  the  reality,  though  those  who  do  not 
understand  the  Skambha,  may  take  them  for  such  (verse  21).  'Some 
people  think  that  the  existing  branch  (i.e.  the  existing  Vedas — compare 
verse  20),  which  is  not  the  reality  (asat),  is,  as  it  were  (iva),  the 
highest  (paramani)  Veda  ;  on  the  other  hand,  those  (people)  inferior 
(to  the  former),  who  believe  that  it  is  the  reality  (sat),  worship  thy 
branch  (i.e.  those  later  Vedas).'  Here  the  word  ivay  in  my  opinion, 
implies  that  the  januh  of  the  first  half  verse  have  still  a  doubt,  and, 
therefore,  do  not  identify  both  the  preseval  and  the  existing  Vedas; 
whereas,  those  people  introduced  with  uto  (uta-u)  are  more  ignorant  in 
assuming  for  certain  such  an  identity,  and  therefore  proceed  to  a 
practical  worship  of  those  Vedas." 

I  quote   in  addition  some  verses  from  the  hymn  next  in  order, 
A.V.  x.  8  :— 

To  bhutam  cha  bhavyam  cha  sarvam  yas  chddhitishthati  \  svar  yasya 
cha  kevalam  tasmai  jyeshthdya  Brahmane  namah  \  2.  Skambheneme  vishta- 
bhite  dyaus  cha  bhumis  cha  tishthatah  \  Skambhah  id-am  sarvam  dtmanvad 
yat  prdnad  nimishach  cha  yat  ....  |  11.  Tad  ejati  patati  yach  cha  tish- 
thuti  prdnad  aprdnad  nimishach  cha  yad  bhuvat  \  tad  dadhdra  prithivlm 
visvarupam  tat  sambhuya  bhavaty  elcam  eva  \  12.  Anantam  vitatam 
purutrd  anantam  antavach  cha  a  samante  \  $e  ndkapdlas  charati  vichincan 
vidvun  Ihutam  uta  bhavyam  asya  \  13.  Prajupatis  charati  gar ohe  antar 
adrisyamuno  bahudhu  vi  juyate  \  ardhena  visvam  bhuvanam  jajuna  yad 
asya  ardham'  katamah  sa  ketuh  .  .  .  .  |  16.  Tatah  Suryah  udeti  astam 
yatra  cha  gachhati  \  tad  eva  manye  '%am  jyeshtham  tad  u  nutyeti  kin- 
chana  .  .  .  .  \  20.  To  vai  te  vidyad  aranl  yabhyam  nirmathyate  vasu  \ 
sa  vidvun  jyeshtham  manyeta  sa  vidyad  brdhmanam  mahat  .  .  .  .  | 
34.  Yatra,  devascha  manushydscha  ardh  ndbhdv  iva  srildh  \  apdm  tvd 
pushpam  prichhdmi  yatra  tan  mdyayv  hitam  ....  37.  To  vidydt 
sutram  vitatam  yasminn  otdh  prajdh  imdh  \  s^tram  siitrasya  yo  vidydt  sa 
vidydd  brdhmanam  mahat  \  38.  Veddham  sutram  vitatam  yasminn  otdh 
prajdh  imdh  \  sutram  sutrasydham  veda  atho  yad  brdhn\anam  mahat . . . .  | 
43.  Pundarikaih  navadvdram  tribhir  gunebhir  dvritam  \  tasmin  yad  yak- 
sham  dtmanvat  tad  vai  brahmavido  viduh  \  44.  Akdmo  dhlro  amritah 

25 


386  SKAMBHA  AND  BRAHMA. 

svayamlhiih  rasena  tripto  na  kutaschanonah  \  tarn  eva  vidvan  na  lilJidya 
mrityor  dtmdnam  dhlram  ajar  am  yuvdnam  \ 

"  1.  Eeverence  to  that  greatest  Brahma  who  presides  over  the  past, 
the  future,  the  universe,  and  whose  alone  is  the  sky.  2.  These  two 
[worlds],  the  sky  and  the  earth,  exist,  supported  by  Skambha.  Skara- 
bha  is  all  this  which  has  soul,  which  breathes,  which  winks  ....  11. 
That  which  moves,  flies,  stands,  whjich  has  existed  breathing,  not 
breathing,  and  winking  ;  that  omniform  (entity)  h'as  established  the 
earth;  that,  combined,  is  one  only.  12.  The  inBnite  extended  on 
many  sides,  the  infinite  and  the  finite  all  around, — these  two  the 
ruler  of  the  sky  proceeds  discriminating,  knowing  the  past  and  the 
future  of  this  (universe).  13.  (=Vaj.  San.  31,  19)  Prajapati  moves 
within  the  womb.  Though  unseen,  he  is  born  in  many  forms.  "With 
the  half  [of  himself]  he  produced  the  whole  world.  What  trace  is 
there  of  the  [other]  half  of  him?  ....  16.  I  regard  as  the  greatest 
That  whence  the  sun  rises,  and  Thaf  where  he  sets ;  That  is  not  sur- 
passed by  anything  ....  20.  He  who  knows  the  two  pieces  of  fire- 
wood from  which  wealth  is  rubbed  out,  he,  so  knowing,  will  under- 
stand that  which  is  the  greatest  ;  he  will  know  the  great  divine 
mystery  (bralimana)  ....  34.  I  ask  thee  regarding  that  flower  of  the 
waters,  in  which  gods  and  men  are  fixed  as  spokes  in  the  nave  of  a 
wheel, — where  that  was  placed  by  [divine]  skill  (may a}  ....  37.  He 
who  knows  that  extended  thread  on  which  these  creatures  are  strung, 
who  knows  the  thread  of  fthe  thread, — he  knows  that  great  divine 
mystery  (brulimana}.  38.  I  know  that  extended  thread  on  which 
these  creatures  are  strung.  I  know  the  thread  of  the  thread,  and 
hence,  too,  that  which  is  the  great  divine  mystery  .  *  .  .  43.  The 
possessors  of  divine  science  (brahma)  know  that  being  within'  the  lotus 
with  nine  gates,  which  is  enveloped  by  the  three  qualities  (gunas).515 
44.  Knowing  that  soul  (atman)  calm,  undecaying,  young,  free  from 
desire,  immortal,  self-existent,  satisfied  with  the  essence,  deficient  in 
nothing,  a  man  is  not  afraid  of  death." 

Some  verses  in  the  two  preceding  hymns  sptak  of  the  highest,  or 
greatest,  Brahma,  in  whatever  sense  that  term  is  to  be  understood. 

I  am  unable  to  state  whether  Brahma  in  the  sense  of  the  supreme 

A 

675  See  note  in  p.  377. 


SKAMBHA  AND  BRAHMA.  387 

Deity  occurs  elsewhere  in  the  Atharva-veda,  unless  it  be  in  the  follow- 
ing passage  (xi.  8,  30  ff.) :  yah  dpo  yds  cha  devatdh  yd  Virdd  Brah- 
mand  saha  \  sarlram  Brahma  prdvisat  sarlre  'dhi  Prajdpatih  \  31. 
Suryai  chakshur  vdtah  prdnam  purushasya  vi  Ihejire  \  athdsyetaram 
dtmdnam  devdh  prdyachhann  Agnaye  \  32.  Tasmdd  vai  vidvdn  purusham 
idam  Brahmeti  manyate  \  sarvoh  hi  asmin  devatdh  gdvo  goshthe  ivdsate  \ 
"  The  waters,  the  gods,  Yiraj  (feminine)  with  Brahma  [entered  into 
man].  Brahma  entered  his  body;  Prajapati  [presides]  over  his  body. 
31.  Surya  occupied  the  eye,  and  Yata  the  breath  of  the  man.  Then  the 
gods  gave  his  other  soul  to  Agni.  32.  Wherefore  one  who  knows  the 
man  thinks,  '  this  is  Brahma  ; '  for  all  the  gods  are  in  him,  as  cows  in 
a  cowhouse." 

In  the  Vaj.  San.  xxiii.  47,  we  find  the  following  words  :  Mm  svit 
Surya-samam  jyotih  him  samudra-samam  sarah  |  .  .  .  .  48.  Brahma 
Surya-samam  jyotir  dyauh  samudra-samam  sarah  \  "What  light  is 
equal  to  the  sun?  What  lake  is  equal  to  the  sea?"  To  which  the 
following  verse  gives  the  answer:  "Brahma  (neuter)  is  a  light  equal 
to  the  sun.  The  sky  is  a  lake  equal  to  the  sea."  The  commentator 
explains  Brahma  in  this  passage  as  standing  either  for  the  three  Vedas 
or  the  supreme  Brahma. 

In  Satap.  Br.  x.  6,  5,  9,  it  is  stated  in  a  genealogy  of  teachers  that 
"Tura  Kavasheya  sprang  from  Prajapati,  and  Prajapati  from  Brahma, 
who  is  self-existent"  (Turah  Kdvasheyah  Prajdpateh  Prajdpatir  Brah- 
manah  \  Brahma  svayamlhu).  In  another  passage,  already  quoted, ' 
from  the  same  work  (xiii.  7,  1,  1)  Brahma  (in  the  neuter),  the  self- 
existent,  is  described  as  performing  tapas,  and  as  sacrificing  himself. 
Ibid.  x.  4,  19,  a  verse  is  quoted  from  some  hymn  which  begins,  "  I 
celebrate  the  one  great  imperishable  Brahma  who  was  and  is  to  be  " 
(" Bhutam  bhavishyat prastaumi  mahad  Brahmaikam  aksharam"). 

Again,  in  the  same  work,  xi.  3,  3,  1,  the  same  being  is  represented 
as  giving  over  other  creatures,  except  the  Brahmacharin,  or  religious 
student,  to  death  (Brahma  vai  mrityOtVe  prajdh  prdyachhat  \  tasmai 
Irahmachdrinam  eva  \a  prdyachhat}.  And  in  xi.  2,  3,  1  ff.,  there  is 
another  text,  which  is  interesting  not  merely  as  introducing  Brahma, 
but  as  containing  what  is  probably  one  of  %the  oldest  extant  expositions 
of  the  conception  of  ndma  and  ritya  (name  and  form)  as  comprehending 
the  whole  of  the  phenomenal  universe.  These  two  words,  as  is  well 


388  SKAMBHA  AND  BRAHMA. 

known,  became  at  a  later  period  technical  terms  of  the  Vedanta  philo- 
sophy. The  passage  runs  as  follows  : — 

Brahma  vai  idam  agre  dslt  \  tad  devun  asrijata  \tad  devun  srishtvd 
eshu  lokeshu  vydrohayad  asminn  eva  loJce  Agnirn  Vdyum  antarikshe  divy 
eva  Suryam  \  2.  Atha  ye  atah  urdhvah  lokds  tad  yah  atah  urdhvah 
devatds  teshu  tdh  devatah  vyarohayat  sah  \  yathd  ha  eva  ime  dvirlokdh 
imds  cha  devatah  evam  u  ha  eva  te  dwrlolcds  tdscha  devatah  yeshu  tdh 
devatah  vyarohayat  \  3.  Atha  Brahma  eva  pardrdham  agachhat  \  tat 
pardrdham  gatvd  aikshata  "  kathaih  no  imdn  lokdn  pratyaveydm  "  iti  \ 
tad  dvdlhydm  eva  pratyavaid  rupena  chaiva  ndmnd  cha  sah  \  yasya  kasya 
cha  ndma  asti  tan  ndma  \  yasya  u  api  ndma  ndsti  yad  veda  rupena 
"idam  rupam"  iti  tad  rupam  \  etdvad  vai  idam  ydvad  rupam  chaiva 
ndma  cha  \  4.  Te  ha  ete  Brahmano  mahati  alhve  \  sa  yo  ha  ete  Brah- 
mano  mahati  abhve  veda  mahad  ha  eva  abhvam  lhavati  \  5.  Te  ha  ete 
Brahmano  mahati  yalcshe  \  sa  yo  ha  ete  Brahmano  mahati  yakshe  veda 
mahad  ha  eva  yalcsham  lhavati  \  tayor  anyataraj  jydyo  rupam  eva  \  yad 
hij  api  ndma  rupam  eva  tat  \  sa  yo  hy  etay  or  jydyo  vedajydydn  ha  tasmdd 
lhavati  yasmdj  jydydn  lulhushati  \  ma-rtydh  ha  vai  agre  devdh  dsuh  \ 
sa  yadd  eva  te  Brahmand  dpur  atha  amritdh  dsuh  \  sa  yam  manasah 
dghdrayati  \  mano  vai  rupam  \  manasd  hi  veda  "idam  rupam"  iti  \ 
tena  rupam  dpnoti  \  atha  yam  vdchah  dghdrayati  \  vug  vai  ndma  \  vdchd 
hi  ndma  grihnati  \  tena  u  ndma  dpnoti  \  etdvad  vai  idam  sarvam  ydvad 
rupam  chaiva  ndma  cha  f  tat  sarvam  dpnoti  \  sarvam  vai  akshayyam  \ 
•  etena  u  ha  asya  akshayyam  sul:ritam  lhavaty  akshayyo  lolcah  \ 

"1.  In  the  beginning  Brahma  was  this  [universe].  He  created  gods. 
Having  created  gods,  he  placed  them  in  these  worlds,  viz.,  in  this  world 
Agni,  in  the  atmosphere  Vayu,  and  in  the  sky  Surya  ;  (2)  and  in  the 
worlds  which  were  yet  higher  he  placed  the  gods  who  are  still  higher. 
Such  as  are  these  visible  worlds  and  these  gods, — even  such  were  those 
(higher)  visible  worlds  in  which  he  placed  those  (higher)  gods,  and  such 
were  those  gods  themselves.  3.  Then  Brahma  proceeded  to  the  higher 
sphere  (pararddha — explained  by  the  commentator  to  mean  the  Satya- 
loka,  the  most  excellent,  and  the  limit,  of  all  the  worlds).  Having 
gone  to  that  higher  sphere,  he  considered  '  How  now  can  I  pervade  all 
these  worlds?'  He  then  pervaded  them  with  two  things — with  form 
and  with  name.  Whatever  has  a  name,  that  is  name.  And  then  that 
which  has  no  name — that  which  he  knows  by  its  form,  that  'such  is 


SKAMBHA  AND  BRAHMA.  389 

its  form ' — that  is  form.  This  [universe]  is  so  much  as  is  (i.e.  is  co- 
extensive with)  form  and  name.  4.  These  are  the  two  great  magni- 
tudes (alhve)  of  Brahma.  He  who  knows  these  two  great  magnitudes 
of  Brahma  becomes  himself  a  great  magnitude.  5.  These  are  the  two 
great  manifestations  of  Brahma.  He  who  knows  these  two  great  mani- 
festations of  Brahma  becomes  himself  a  great  manifestation.  Of  these 
two  one  is  the  greater,  viz.,  form ;  for  whatever  is  name  is  also  form. 
He  who  knows  the  greater  of  these  two  becomes  greater  than  him  than 
whom  he  wishes  to  become  greater.  6.  The  gods  were  originally 
mortal,  but  when  they  were  pervaded  by  Brahma  they  became  im- 
mortal. By  that  which  he  sends  forth  from  his  mind  (mind  is  form  ; 
for  by  mind  he  knows,  '  This  is  form') — by  that,  I  say,  he  obtains  form. 
And  by  that  which  he  sends  out  from  his  voice  (voice  is  name ;  for  by 
voice  he  seizes  name) — by  that,  I  say,  he  obtains  name.  This  universe 
is  so  much  as  is  (i.e.  is  co-extenpjve  with)  form  and  name.  All  that  he 
obtains.  Now  that  all  is  undecaying.  Hence  he  obtains  undecaying 
merit,  and  an  undecaying  world."- 

Compare  with  this  the  passages  of  the  Brihad  Aranyaka  Upanishad, 
which  will  be  found  at  pp.  75  if.  and  165  ff.  of  Dr.  Roer's  translation 
(Bibliotheca  Indica,  vol.  ii.  part  3),  and  the  Mundaka  Upanishad,  iii. 
2,  8,  p.  164  of  English  version. 

Brahma  is  also  mentioned  in  the  following  texts  of  the  Taitt.  Br. 
ii.  8,  8,  9  : — 

Brahma  devdn  ajanayat  \  Brahma  visv'am  idam  jagat  \  Brahmanah 
kshattram  nirmitam  \  Brahma  brdhmanah  dtmand  \  antar  asminn  ime 
lokdh  |  10.  Antar  viSvam  idam  jagat  \  Brahmaiva  bhutdndm  jyesh- 
tham  \  t«na  ko  'rhati  sparddhitum  \  Brahman  devds  trayastrimsat  \ 
Brahmann  Indra-prajdpatl  \  Brahman  ha  visvd  Ihutdni  \  ndvlvdntah 
samdhitd  \ 

"  Brahma  generated  the  gods.  Brahma  [generated]  this  entire  world. 
From  Brahma 576  the  Kshattriya  is  formed.  Brahma  in  his  essence  is 
the  Brahman.577  "Within  him  are  all  the'se  worlds.  10.  Within  him  is 
this  entire  universe.  It  is  Brahma  who  is  tile  greatest  of  beings.  Who 

* 

576  Here  there  is  an  allusion  to  the  other  sense  of  brahma  as  Devotion,  the  peculiar 
function  of  the  Brahman  caste.  ' 

577  «  For,"  says  the  commentator,  "  in  the  Brahman's  body  the  supreme  Brahma 
is  manifested." 


390  PRAJAPATI. 

can  vie  with  him  ?  In  Brahma  the  thirty-three  gods, — in  Brahma,  Indra 
and  Prajapati, — in  Brahma  all  beings  are  contained,  as  in  a  ship." 

Again,  it  is  said  (iii.  12,  3,  1,  quoted  above,  p.  361,  note) :  "Let  us 
worship  with  oblations  the  first-born  god,  by  whom  the  entire  universe 
which  exists  is  surrounded, — the  self-existent  Brahma,  who  is  the 
supreme  austere  fervour  (tapas).  It  is  he  who  is  son,  he  who  is  father, 
he  who  is  mother.  Tapas  came  into  exfstence  the  first  object."  Brahma 
is  also  mentioned  in  iii.  12,  9,  7  (where,  however,  he  is  described  as 
coming  into  existence) :  visvasrijah  prathamdh  satram  dsata  \  sahasra- 
samam  prasute  nayantah  \  tato  ha  jajne  Ihuvanasya  gopdh  \  hiranmayah 
sakunir  Brahma  ndma  \  yena  suryas  tapati  tejaseddhah  .  .  .  .  |  na  aveda- 
vid  manute  tarn  Irihatam  \  "  The  earliest  creators  of  the  universe  were 
engaged  in  a  sacrifice  for  a  thousand  years  ....  Thence  sprang  the 
protector  of  the  world,  the  golden  bird  called  Brahma,  by  whom  the 
sun  glows,  kindled  with  flame  .  .  .  .  Nfo  one  ignorant  of  the  Veda  com- 
prehends that  great  being."  Compare  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  8,  9,  6  (quoted 
above,  p.  355),  in  which  Brahma  is  said  to  be  the  forest  and  the  tree 
out  of  which  the  worlds  were  constructed,  and  as  the  basis  on  which 
the  creator  took  his  stand  when  upholding  the  universe. 

(8)  Prajapati. 

As  I  have  observed  above  (p.  353),  the  word  prajapati,  "lord  of 
creatures,"  was  originally  employed  as  an  epithet  of  Savitri  and  Soma, 
as  it  also  was  of  Hiranyagarbha  (R.V.  v.  121,  10).  It  afterwards, 
however,  came  to  denote  a  separate  deity,  who  appears  in  three  places 
of  the  Rig-veda,  x.  85,  43  (a  nah  pro/dm  janayatu  Prajdpatih}  ; 

r, 

x.  169,  4  ;  x.  184,  1  (a  sinchatu  Prajdpatih\  as  the  bestower  of 
progeny  and  cattle.  This  god  is  also  mentioned  in  the  Yajasaneyi 
Sanhita,  in  a  verse  (xxxi.  19)  which  comes  in  after  one  in  which  the 
great  Purusha  is  celebrated  (see  above,  p.  373).  The  verse  is  as 
follows :  Prajdpatis  cTiarati  gavbhe  antar  ajdyamdno  bahudhd  vijdyate  \ 
tasya  yonim  paripasyanti  d_Mras  tasmin  ha  tasthur  bhuvandni  visvd  \ 
11  Prajapati  moves  within  the  womb.  Though  he  does  not  become  born, 
he  is  yet  born  in  many  shapes.  The  wise  behold  his  womb.  In 
him  all  the  worlds  stand."  573  Another  verse  of  the  V.  S.  in  which  he 

478  The  first  half  of  this  verse,  as  we  have  seen,  is  also  found  in  the  A.V.  x.  8,  13, 


PEA  JAP  ATI.  391 

is  referred  to  is  this  (xxxii.  5) :  "  Yasmdj  jdtam  na  pur  a,  h'nchanaiva 
yah  dbabhuva  bhuvandni  visvd  \  Prajdpatih  prajayd  safhraranas  trlni 
jyotlmshi  sachate  sa  shodasl  |  "  He  before  whom  nothing  was  born,  who 
pervades  all  worlds,  Prajapati,  rejoicing  with  his  offspring,  is  joined 
with  the  three  luminaries,  as  the  sixteenth." 

Prajapati  is  frequently  alluded  to  in  the  Atharva-veda.  Several  of 
these  passages  have  been  alreafly  cited  above,  as  x.  7,  7,  17,  40,  41 ; 
x.  8,  13.  Some  of  the  others  which  I  have  observed  are  the  following: 
In  xi.  3,  52,  he  is  said  to  have  formed  thirty-three  worlds  out  of  the 
oblation  of  boiled  rice  (etasmdd  vai  odandt  trayastrimsatam  lolcdn 
niramimita  PrajapatiTj}.  In  xi.  4,  12,  he  is  identified  with  Prtina,  or 
breath  (prdnam  dhuh  Prajdpatim).  In  xi.  5,  7,  he  is  said,  along  with 
Parameshthin,  to  have  been  generated  by  the  Brahmacharin,  or  reli- 
gious student.  In  xi.  7,  3,  he  is  declared  to  exist  in  the  Uchhishta,  or 
remnant  of  the  sacrifice.  Andt  in  xix.  53,  8,  10,  he  is  said  to  have 
been  produced  by  Kdla,  or  Time.  Most  of  these  passages  will  be 
quoted  at  length  further  on.  It, will  be  seen  that  in  this  Yeda  he  is 
not  generally  regarded  as  the  supreme  or  primal  deity. 

On  the  subject  of  Prajapati,  I  have  elsewhere  (in  vols.  iii.  4;  iv. 
19-24,  and  47-51)  brought  together  a  considerable  number  of  passages 
from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  of  which  I  shall  here  only  repeat  the 
substance,  adding  any  further  references  which  I  may  have  noticed  as 
occurring  elsewhere.  Prajapati  is  sometimes  identified  with  the  uni- 
verse, and  described  (in  the  same  way  ti&  Brahma,  or  entity,  or  non- 
entity are  in  other  places)  as  having  alone  existed  in  the  beginning,  as 
the  source  out  of  which  the  creation  was  evolved,  S'atap.  Br.  ii.  2,  4,  1 ; 
vii.  5,  2ft6;'579  xi.  5,  8,  1.  (See  vol.  i.  p.  24;  vol.  iii.^p.  4;  vol.  iv. 
pi  24.)  The  same  is  the  case  in  some  other  texts  adduced  by  Professor 
"Weber  in  his  Ind.  Stud.  ix.  477  f.,  where,  however,  Vach  is  associated 
with  Prajapati  "  as  his  companion  in  concett  with  whom,  and  through 

with  the  different  reading  of  adrisyamanah,  "»ot  being  seen,"  for  ajayamanah,  ''not 
being  born."  The  second  line  runs  thus  in  the  A.V.  r  "  "With  the  half  he  produced 
the  whole  world.  But  what  trace  is  there  of  his  [otter]  half?  " 

67s)  S'atap.  Br.  vii.  5,  2,  6  :  Prajapatir  vai  idam  agre  asld  ekah  eva  \  so  'kamayata 
"  annam  srijeya prajiiycya"  iti  sa  pranebhyah  evq  adhi  pasun  niramimita  manasah 
purusham  chakshusho  's'vam  pranad  gain  srotrad  aviih  vacho  'jam  \  tad  yad  enan 
pranebhyo  'dhi  niramimita  tasmad  ahuh  "prancih  pasavah"  iti  \  mano  vai prananam 
prathamam  \  tad  yad  manasah  purusham  niramimita  tasmad  ahuh  "purushah  pra- 


392  PRAJAPATI. 

whom,  he  completes  his  work  of  creation."  ^  Thus  it  is  said  in  the 
Kathaka,  xii.  5  (and  xxvii.  1) :  Prajdpaiir  vai  idam  dslt  \  tasya  Vug 
dvitiyd  dslt  \  tarn  mithunam  samabhavat  \  sd  garbham  adhatta  \  sd 
asmdd  apdlcrdmat  \  sd  imdh  prajdh  asrijata  \  sd  Prajdpatini  eva  punah 
prdvisat  \  "Prajapati  was  this  universe.  Yach  was  a  second  to  him. 
He  associated  sexually  with  her ;  she  Became  pregnant ;  she  departed 
from  him ;  she  produced  these  creatureu ;  she  again  entered  into  Praja- 
pati."  Again,  in  the  Panchavimsa  Br.  xx.  14,  2,  we  are  told  :  "Prajd- 
patir  vai  idam  eJcah  dslt  \  tasya  vdg  eva  svam  dsid  vdg  dvitiyd  \  sa 
ailcshata  l  imam  eva  Vdchaih  visrijai  \  iyam  vai  idam  sarvam  vibhavanti 
esliyati'1 "  iti  \  sa  vdcham  vyasrijata  \  sd  idam  sarvam  vibhavanti  ait  \  sd 
urdhvd  uddtanod  yathd  apdm  dhdrd  santatd  evam  \  "  Prajapati  alone 
was  this  universe.  He  had  Yach  too  as  his  own,  as  a  second  to 
him.  He  considered  '  Let  me  send  forth  this  Yach.  She  will  traverse 
and  pervade  all  this.'  He  sent  her  forth  :  she  traversed  and  per- 
vaded all  this :  she  extended  aloft,  diffused  like  a  stream  of  water." 
In  other  texts  of  the  S'atap.  Br.,  however,  Prajapati  is  not  represented 
as  the  source  of  creation,  hut  only  as  one  of  the  subsequent  and  sub- 
ordinate agents,  created  by  the  gods,  vi.  1,  1,  5  (vol.  iv.  of  this  work, 
p.  19  f.),  or  as  springing  out  of  an  egg  generated  by  the  primeval 
waters,  xi.  1,  6,  1  ff.  (vol.  iv.  21  f.).  He  is  elsewhere  said  to  have 
offered  sacrifice  in  order  to  produce  the  creation,  ii.  4,  4,  1  (vol.  iv. 
24),  and  to  have  been  himself  half  mortal  and  half  immortal,  x.  1,  3, 
2  ;  x.  1,  4,  1  (vol.  iv.  p.  47)j  mortal  in  his  body,  but  immortal  in  his 
breath,  and  to  have  performed  tapas  for  a  thousand  years,  to  get  rid 
of  sin  or  suffering,  pdpman,  x.  4,  4,  1  (vol.  iv.  51). 

c 

thamah  pasunam  vlryavattamah"  iti  \  memo  vai  sarve  pranah  \  manasi  hi  sarve 
pranah  pratishthitah  \  tad  yad  manasah  purusham  niramimlta  tasmad  ahuh  "puru- 
shah  sarve  pasava h "  iti  purushyasya  hy  eva  ete  sarve  bhavanti  \  "Prajapati  alone 
was  at  first  this  [universe].  He  desired,  "  May  I  create  food,  and  become  repro- 
duced.' He  fashioned  animals  from  his  breaths,  a  man  from  his  soul,  a  horse  from 
his  eye,  a  cow  from  his  breath,  a  sheep  from  his  ear,  a  goat  from  his  voice.  Inas- 
much as  he  created  these  (animals)  from  his  breaths,  they  dky  that '  the  breaths  are 
the  animals.'  The  soul  (manas)<is  the  first  of  the  breaths;  and  since  he  fashioned 
man  from  his  soul,  they  say  that  '  man  is  the  first  and  strongest  of  animals.'  The  soul 
is  all  the  breaths,  for  they  are  all  supported  in  it.  Sface  then  he  fashioned  man  from 
his  soul,  they  say,  '  mat  is  all  the  animals,'  for  they  are  all  his." 

580  I  observe  that  Professor  "Weber  speaks  Tiere  of  the  waters  (apah],  the  non- 
existent (asat),  and  Brahman  as  each  denoting  primeval  matter  (Urmaterie). 


PEANA.  393 

Prajapati  may  thus  be  said  to  have  two  characters,  which,  however, 
are  not  not  kept  distinct  in  the  Brahmana.  On  the  one  hand,  he  is 
the  result  of  one  of  the  efforts  of  the  Indian  intellect  to  conceive  and 
express  the  idea  of  deity  in  the  abstract,  as  the  great  first  cause  of  all 
things ;  while,  on  the  other  hand,  he  is  sometimes  described  as  only  a 
secondary  and  subordinate  divinity,  and  even  treated  as  only  one  of  the 
thirty-three  deities  (as  in  S'atAp.  Br.  xi.  6,  3,  5.  See  above,  p.  11; 
and  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon,  s .v.  Prajapati).  In  the  Brahmana 
itself  (xiv.  1,  2,  18)  we  have  the  following  text,  which  expresses  two 
different  aspects  under  which  the  god  was  regarded,  though,  perhaps, 
these  are  not  identical  with  the  two  points  of  view  which  I  have 
stated : — Prajapatir  vai  esho  yajno  bhavati  \  ulhayam  vai  etat  Praja- 
patir niruktas  cha  aniruktascha  parimitas  cha  aparimitas  cha  \  tad  yad 
yajushii  karoti  yad  eva  asya  niruJctam  parimitam  rupam  tad  asya  tena 
samsJcaroti  \  atha  yat  tushnlm  yad  eva  asya  anirulctam  aparimitam 
rupam  tad  asya  tena  samsJcaroti  \  "Prajapati  is  this  sacrifice.  Pra- 
japati is  both  of  these  two  things,  declared  and  undeclared,  limited 
and  unlimited.  Whatever  he  (the  priest)  does  with  the  Yajus  text, 
with  that  he  consecrates  that  form  of  Prajapati  which  is  declared  and 
limited.  And  what  he  (the  priest)  does  silently,  with  that  he  con- 
secrates the  form  of  Prajapati,  which  is  undeclared  and  unlimited." 
Compare  the  Haitri  Upanishad,  vi.  3  (p.  83  of  Professor  Cowell's 
ed.) :  dve  vava  Srahmano  rupe  murtam  cha  amurtam  cha  \  yan  murtam 
tad  asatyam  \  yad  amurtam  tat  satyam  \  "  There  are  two  forms  of 
Brahma,  the  embodied  and  the  unembodied.  The  former  is  unreal, 
the  latter  real." 

"  (9)  Pruna.  * 

A  great  variety  of  other  deities,  of  the  most  heterogeneous  character, 
are  celebrated  in  the  Atharva-veda  as  the  possessors  of  divine  power. 
Though  scarcely  to  be  regarded  as  instances  of  an  abstract  conception 
of  the  deity,  the  representations  of  theae  gods  may  be  adduced  here  as 
illustrations  of  the  later  stages  of  the  luxuriant  and  multiform  Vedic 
mythology  and  speculation.  One  of  these  deities  is  Prana,  life  or 
breath,  to  whom  a  hymn  (xi.  4)  is  dedicated,  of  w{hich  the  following 
is  a  specimen.  In  some  verses '  he  seems  to  be  identified  with  Par- 
janya  (see  above,  pp.  140  f.) : — 


394  PEANA. 

1.  Prdndya  name  yasya  sarvam  idam  vaie  \  yo  Ihutah  sarvasyeivaro 
yasmin  sarvam  pratishthitam  \  2.  Namas  te  Prdna  kranddya  namas  te 
stanayitnave  \  namas  te  Prdna  vidyute  namas  te  Prdna  varshate  \  3.  Yat 
Prdnah  stanayitnund  abhikrandati  oshadhlh  (compare  A.Y.  viii.  7,  21)  | 
pravlyante  garbhdn  dadJiate  atho  lahvlr  m  jdyante  \  4.  Yat  Prdnah 
ritdv  agate  abhikrandati  oshadhlh  \  sarvam  tadd  pramodate  yat  Jcincha 
bhumydm  adhi  \  5.  Yadd  Prdno  afihyavarshdd  varshena  prithivlm 
mahim  \  pasavas  tat  pra  modante  "maho  vai  no  lhavishyati  "  |  6.  Ablii- 
vrishtdh  oshadhayah  Prdnena  samavddiran  \  "  dyur  vai  nah  prdtltarah 
sarvdh  nah  surabhlr  akah"  \  7.  Namas  te  astu  dyate  namo  'stu  pardyate  \ 
namas  te  Prdna  tishthate  dslndyota  te  namah  \  9.  Yd  te  Prdna  priyd 
tanur  yd  te  Prdna  preyasl  \  atho  yad  Iheshajam  tava  tasya  no  dhehi 
jlvase  |  10.  Prdnah  prajdh  anu  vaste  pita  putram  iva  priyam  \  Prdno  ha 
sarvasyesvaro  yach  cha  prdnati  yach  cha  nah  \  11.  Prdno  mrityuh 
Prdnas  takmd  Prdnam  devdh  updsate  \  Prdno  ha  satyavddinam  uttame 
lolce  d  dadhat  \  12.  Prdno  Virdt  Prdno  Deshtrl  Prdnam  sane  updsate  \ 
Prdno  ha  suryas  chandramdh  Prdnam  ahuh  Prajdpatim  \  ....  15. 
Prdnam  dhur  Mdtarisvdnam  Vdto  ha  Prdnah  uchyate  \  Prune  ha  Ihutam 
bhavyam  cha  Prune  sarvam  pratishthitam  \  16.  Atharvamr  dnyirasir 
daivlr  manushyajdh  uta  \  oshadhayah  prajdyante  yadd  tvam  Prdna  jin- 
vasi  |  ....  18.  Yas  te  Prdna  idam  veda  yasmims  chdsi  pratishthitah  \ 
sarve  tasmai  lalim  hardn  amushmin  lobe  uttame  \  19.  Yathd  Prdna 
lalihritas  tulhyam  sarvdh  prajdh  imdh  \  eva  tasmai  lalim  hardn  yas  tvd 
srinavat  susravah  \ 

"  Reverence  to  Prana,  to  whom  this  universe  is  subject,  who  has 
become  the  lord  of  all,  on  whom  all  is  supported.  2.  Eeverence,  Prana, 
to  thy  shout,  Jo  thy  thunder,  to  thy  lightning,  and  to  thyself  when 
thou  rainest.  3.  When  Prana  calls  aloud  to  the  plants  with  thunder, 
they  are  impregnated,  they  conceive,  they  produce  abundantly.  4. 
"When  the  season  has  arrived,  and  Prana  calls  aloud  to  the  plants,  then 
everything  rejoices,  which  is  upon  the  earth  (compare  R.V.  v.  83,  10, 
aboVe,  p.  140).  5.  When  Prand  has  watered  the  great  earth  with  rain, 
then  the  beasts  rejoice,  and»  [think]  that  they  shall  have  strength.  6. 
When  watered  by  Prana,  the  plants  burst  forth  [saying],  '  Thou  hast 
prolonged  our  life,, thou  hast 'made  us  all  fragrant.'  7.  Eeverence  to 
thee,  Prana,  coming,  and  to  thee  going,  and  to  thee  standing,  and  to 
thee  sitting  ....  9.  Communicate  to  us  thy  dear  form,  thy  dearest, 


ROHITA.  395 

with  thy  healing  power,  that  we  may  live.  10.  Prana  clothes  the 
creatures,  as  a  father  his  dear  son.  Prana  is  the  lord  of  all,  both  of 
what  breathes  and  what  does  not  breathe.  11.  Prana  is  death,  Prana 
is  fever.  The  gods  worship  Prana.  Prana  places  the  truth-speaker  in 
the  highest  world.  12.  Prana  is  Yiraj,  Prana  is  Deshtri.  All  worship 
Prana.  Prana  is  sun  and  moon.  They  call  Prajapati  Prana  ....  15. 
They  call  Matarisvan  Prana ;  the  "Wind  is  called  Prana.  The  past, 
the  future,  everything  is  supported  upon  Prana.  16.  The  plants  of 
Atharvan,  of  Angiras,  of  the  gods,  and  of  men,  grow  when  thou, 
Prana,  quick enest ....  18.  "Whoever,  o  Prana,  knows  this  [truth] 
regarding  thee,  and  on  what  thou  art  supported — all  will  offer  him 
tribute  in  that  highest  world.  19.  As,  o  Prana,  all  these  creatures 
offer  thee  tribute,  so  shall  they  offer  tribute  in  that  highest  world  to 
him  who  hears  thee  with  willing  ears.'  " 

• 
(10)  Rohita. 

Rohita,  probably  a  form  of  the  Fire  and  of  the  Sun  (though  he  is 
also  distinguished,  in  the  hymn  I  am  about  to  quote,  from  both  these 
gods),  is  another  deity  who  is  highly  celebrated  in  the  Atharva-veda, 
where  one  hymn  (xiii.  1)  and  parts  of  others  are  appropriated  to  his 
honour.  The  following  are  some  of  the  verses  in  which  his  power  is 
described,  xiii.  1,  6: — 

6.  Rohito  dydvd-prithivl  jqfdna  tatra  tantum  Parameshthl  tatdna  \ 
tatra  sisriye  Ajah  Ekapddo  adriihhad  dyava-prithivl  balena  \  7.  Rohito 
dydvd-prithivl  adrimhat  tena  svah  stalhitam  tena  ndJcah  \  tendntariksham 
vimitd  nu/amsi  tena  devdh  amritatvam  avindan  \  13.  Rohito  yajnasya 
janitd  mukham  cha  Rohitdya  vdchd  &rotrena  manasd  juhomi  \  Rohitam 
devdh  yanti  sumanasyamdndh  \  ....  14.  Rohito  yajnam  vyadadhdd 
Fisvakarmane+tasmdt  tejdmsi  upa  ma  imdny  Gguli  |  .  .  .  .  25.  Yo  Rohito 
vrishabhas  tigmasringah  pari  Agnim  pari  Suryam  babhuva  \  yo  vishta- 
bhndti  prithivlm  divqm  cha  tasmdd  devdh  adhi  srishtlh  srijante  |*  26. 
Rohito  divam  druhad  mahatah  pari  arnaudt  \  sarvdh  ruroha  Rohito 
ruhah  \  37.  Rohite  dydvd-pjfithivl  adhi  srite  vasujiti  gojiti  |  .  .  .  .  55. 
Sa  yajnah  prathamo  bhuto  bhavyo  ajdyata  \  tasmdd  h*  jajne  idaih  sarvam 
yat  kincha  idam  virochate  Rohitena  rishind  "Ihritam  \ 

"  Eohita  produced  heaven  and  earth :  there  Parameshthin  stretched 


396  UCHHISHTA. 

the  cord.  There  Aja  Ekapada  was  sustained.  He  established  heaven 
and  earth  by  his  force.  7.  Rohita  established  heaven  and  earth ;  by 
him  the  sky  was  supported,  by  him  the  heaven.  By  him  the  atmo- 
sphere, by  him  the  regions  were  meted  out.  Through  him  the  gods 
obtained  immortality.  13.  Rohita  is  the  generator,  and  the  mouth  of 
sacrifice.  To  Rohita  I  offer  my  oblation  with  voice,  ear,  and  mind. 
To  Rohita  the  gods  resort  with  gladntss  ....  14.  Rohita  offered  a 

sacrifice  to  Visvakarman.  Prom  it  these  fires  have  reached  me 

25.  The  gods  frame  creations  out  of  that  Rohita  who  is  a  sharp- 
horned  bull,  who  surpasses  Agni  and  Surya,  who  props  up  the  earth 
and  the  sky.  26.  Rohita  ascended  the  sky  from  the  great  ocean ;  he 
ascended  all  ascents.581  37.  In  Rohita,  who  is  the  conqueror  of  wealth 
and  cows  ....  the  heaven  and  earth  are  sustained  ....  55.  He  first 
became  the  sacrifice,  both  past  and  future.  From  him  sprang  all  this 
whatever  there  is  which  shines,  developed  by  Rohita,  the  rishi." 

In  the  second  hymn  of  the  same  book,  in  which  the  sun  is  celebrated, 
Rohita  is  also  named  in  the  following,,verses : — 

39.  Rohitah  Jcdlo  abhavad  Rohito  'gre  Prajupatih  \  Rohito  yajnanam 
mukham  Rohitah  svar  ubharat  \  40.  Rohito  loko  abhavad  Rohito  'tyatapad 
divam  \  Rohito  rasmibhir  bhumim  samudram  anu  sam  charat  \  41. 
Sarvdh  disah  samacharad  Rohito  'dhipatir  divah  \  divam  samudram  ad 
bhumim  sarvam  bhutam  vi  rakshati  \ 

"  39.  Rohita  became  Time  ;  Rohita  formerly  became  Prajapati. 
Rohita  is  the  mouth  of  sacrifices.  Rohita  produced  the  sky.  40. 
Rohita  became  the  world  ;  Rohita  shone  beyond  the  sky  ;  Rohita 
traversed  the  earth  and  ocean  with  his  rays.  41.  Rohita  traversed  all 
the  regions.  Rohita  is  the  ruler  of  the  sky.  He  preservesfheaven, 
ocean,  and  earth — whatever  exists." 

And  yet  the  gods  are  said  to  have  generated  Rohita  (A.V.  xiii. 
3,  23  :  yad  Rohitam  ajanayanta  devuh). 

(\l\T7chhishta. 

• 
In  the  hymn  which  follojvs  divine  power  is  ascribed  to  the  remains 

of  the  sacrifice  (Uchhishta)  : 

A.Y.  xi.  7,  1 :    fyhhishte  nfima  rupam  cha  uchhishte  loTcah  uhitah  \ 

581  Here,  as  well  as  in  verses  8  and  9,  there  is  a  play  on  the  connection  of  Eohita 
with  the  root,  ruh,  to  "ascend,"  or  "grow." 


UCHHISHTA.  397 

uchhishte  Indras  cha  Agnis  cha  visvam  antah  samdhitam  \  2.  Uchhishte 
dydvd-prithivl  visvam  bhutam  samahitam  \  dpah  sarmidrah  Uchhishte 
chandramdh  vdtah  dhitdh  \  3.  Sann  Uchhishte  asams  chobhau  mrityur 
vdjah  Prajdpatih  |  ....  4.  ...  Brahma  visvasrijo  dasa  \  ndbhim  iva 
sarvatas  chakram  Uchhishte  devatah  sritdh  |  .  .  .  .  14.  Nava  bhumlh 
samudrdh  Uchhishte  'dhi  sritdh  divah  \  a  suryo  bhdti  Uchhishte  ahordtre 
api  tan  mayi  \  15.  Upahavyam  Fishuvantam  ye  cha  yajndh  guhd  hitdh  \ 
bibhartli  bhartd  visvasya  Uchhishto  janituh  pita  \  16.  Pita  janitur 
Uchhishto  asoh  pautrah  pitumahah  \  sa  Jcshiyati  visvasya  Isano  vrisha 
Ihumyam  atighnyah  \  17.  Ritam  satyam  tapo  rashtram  sramo  dharmaS 
cha  karma  cha  \  Ihutum  lhavishyad  Uchhishte  vlryam  lakshmir  balam 
bale  |  ....  20.  Ardhamasus  cha  musascha  drtavah  ritulhih  saha  \ 
Uchhishte  ghoshanlr  dpah  stanayitnuh  srutir  mahl  \  sarkardh  sikatdh 
asmdnah  oshadhayo  vlrudhas  trind  \  21.  Alhrdni  vidyuto  varsham 
Uchhishte  samsritd  sritd  |  .  .  .  .  23.  Yach  cha  prdnati  prunena  yach  cha 
pasyati  cltakshushd  \  Uchhishtuj  jajnire  sarve  divi  devah  divisritah  \  24. 
Richah  sdmdni  chhanddmsi  purunam  yajushd  saha  \  Uchhishtuj — |  25. 
Prdndpdnau  chakshuh  srotram  akshitis  cha  kshitis  cha  yd  \  Uchhishtdj — | 

26.  Ananduh  moddh  pramudo  alMmoda-mudas  cha  ye  \  Uchhishtdj — | 

27.  Devdh  pitaro  manushydh  gandharvdprarasas  cha  ye  \  Uchhishtuj  \ 
"In  the  Uchhishta  (remains  of  the  sacrifice)  are  contained  name, 

form,5'2  the  world,  Indra  and  Agni,  the  universe,  (2)  heaven  and  earth, 
all  that  exists,  the  waters,  the  sea,  the  moon,  and  the  wind.  3.  In 
the  Uchhishta  are  both  the  existent  and*  the  non-existent  (san,  asams 
cha,  masculine),  death,  food  (or  strength),  Prajapati  ....  4.  Brahma, 
the  ten  creators  of  all  things,553  the  gods,  are  fixed  on  all  sides  to  the 
Uchhishta  as  [the  spokes]  of  a  wheel  to  the  nave."  So,  too,  the  Bik, 
Sanian,  Yajus,  the  hymns,  the  different  sorts  of  sacrifices,  and  parts  of 
the  ceremonial,  etc.,  are  comprehended  in  it  (verses  5-13).  "  14. 
Nine  earths,  oceans,  skies,  are  contained  in  the  Uchhishta.  The  sun 
shines  in  the*CFchhisht;i,  and  in  me  the  Uchhishta  are  day  and  night. 
15.  The  Uchhishta  (masculine],  the  snstainer  of  the  universe,*  the 
father  of  the  generator,  upholds  the  Upu^havya,  the  Yishuvat,  and 

582  See  verse  12  of  the  hymn  To  Purusha,  A.V.  x.  2,  above. 

853  Are  these  the  ten  Maharshis  mentioned  by  Manu,  i.  34  iT  ?  In  A  V.  xi.  1,  1,  3, 
mention  is  made  of  the  seven  Rishis,  the  makers  of  all  things  (bhuta-kritah}.  See 
also  A.V.  xii.  1,  39  ;  and  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  37  and  41,  notes. 


398  ANUMATL 

the  sacrifices  which  are  secretly  presented.  16.  The  TJchhishta,  the 
father  of  the  generator,  the  grandson  of  spirit  (asu\  the  primeval 
parent,  the  lord  of  the  universe,  the  bull,  dwells  triumphant  (?)  on  the 
earth.  17.  Ceremonial,  truth,  rigorous  abstraction,  dominion,  effort, 
righteousness  and  works,  past,  future,  strength,  prosperity,  force, 
reside  in  the  TJchhishta,  which  is  for:e  (compare  x.  7,  1,  above). 
20.  In  the  TJchhishta  are  embraced  the  resounding  waters,  thunder 
the  great  sruti,  pebbles,  sand,  stones,  plants,  grass,  (21)  clouds,  light- 
nings, rain.  23.  From  the  TJchhishta  sprang  whatever  breathes  and 
sees,  with  all  the  celestial  gods,  (24)  the  Rich  and  Saman  verses, 
metres,  Puranas,  and  Yajus,  two  of  the  vital  airs  (prdna  and  apdna), 
the  eye,  the  ear,  imperishableness,  perishableness,  (26)  pleasures,  en- 
joyments, (27)  the  Fathers,  men,  Gandharvas,  and  Apsarases."  (Com- 
pare A.Y.  xi.  3,  21.) 

(12)  Sacrificial  Implements,  etc.,  etc. 

Similar  divine  powers  are  ascribed  to  different  sacrificial  ladles  in 
A.V.  xviii.  4,  5  :  "  The  Juhn  has  established  the  sky,  the  Upabhrit 
the  atmosphere,  and  the  Dhruva  the  stable  earth "  (Juhur  dadhdra 
dydm  upalhrid  antariksham  dhruvd  dadhdra  prithivim  pratishthdiri).  In 
R.V.  vi.  51,  8,  it  is  said  of  namas,  "  adoration,"  that  it  has  supported 
the  earth  and  the  sky,  and  rules  the  gods  "  (namo  dadhdra  pr  it  hi  vim 
uta  dydm  \  namo  develhyo  namah  ise  eshdm).  See  also  A.V.  iv.  35, 
3-6,  where  the  odana  oblation  is  said  to  support  heaven  and  earth, 
etc. ;  A.V.  xix.  32,  9,  where  a  similar  power  is  ascribed  to  the  sacri- 
ficial grass;  and  A.V.  x.  10,  4,  26,  30,  34,  where  wonderful  attributes 
are  predicated  *f  the  Vasa  (cow). 

(13)  Anumati. 

In  a  hymn  to  Anumati  (according  to  Professor  Roth  the  goddess  of 
good  will,  as  well  as  of  procreation),  A.V.  vii.  20,  she  is  thus  identi- 
fied with  all  things  (verse  6) :  "  Anumati  was  all  this  [universe], 
whatever  stands  or  walks,  and  everything  that  moves.  May  we,  o 
goddess,  enjoy  thy  benevolence  ;•  for  thou,  Anumati,  dost  favour  us" 
(anumatih  sarvam  idam  babhuva  yat  tis^thati  charati  yad  u  cha  visvam 
ejati  |  tasyus  te  devi  sumatau  sydma  Anumate  anu  hi  mamsase  nah}. 


THE  BRAHMACHARIN.  399 

(14)  The  Ox,  or  Kettle. 

In  A.Y.  iv.  11,  1,  a  divine  power  is  ascribed  to  the  "Ox,"  which, 
however,  Professor  Aufrecht  thinks  can  only  be  regarded  as  a  meta- 
phorical ox,  as  it  has  an  udder  (verse  4),  and  gives  milk ;  and  he 
supposes  a  kettle  with  four  legs,  the  Gharma,  to  be  intended.  As  that 
vessel  was  used  for  boiling  milk  and  other  materials  for  sacrificial 
purposes,  the  allu*sions  in  this  hymn  to  milk  become  intelligible ;  and 
possibly  the  four-legged  kettle  may,  by  its  form,  have  suggested  the 
figure  of  an  ox. 

1 .  Anadvdn  dadhdra  prithivim  uta  dydm  anadvdn  dadhdra  uru  antar- 
iksham  \  anadvdn  dadhdra  pradisah  shad  urvlr  anadvdn  visvam  bhuva- 
nam  a  vivesa  \  2.  Anadvdn  Indro  so.  pasubhyo  vi  chashte  tray  an  sakro  vi 
mimite  adhvanah  \  bhutam  bhavishyad  bhuvand  duhdnah  sarvd  devdndm 
charati  vratdni  \  3.  Indro  jdto  manushyeshu  antar  aharmas  taptas 
charati  sosuchdnah  \  ....  5.  Y&sya  nese  yajnapatir  na  yajno  na  asya 
data  lie  na  pratigrahltd  \  yo  visvajid  visvabhrid  visvakarmd  gharmam  no 
Iruta  Jcatamas  chatiishpdt  \ 

"  The  ox  has  established  the  earth  and  the  sky ;  the  ox  has  esta- 
blished the  broad  atmosphere ;  the  ox  has  established  the  six  vast 
regions ;  the  ox  has  pervaded  the  entire  universe.  2.  The  ox  is  Indra. 
He  watches  over  the  beasts.  As  S'akra  (or  mighty)  he  measures  the 
threefold  paths.  Milking  out  the  worlds,  whatever  has  been  or  shall 
be,  he  performs  all  the  functions  of  the  ggds.  3.  Being  born  as  Indra 
among  men,  the  kindled  and  glowing  kettle  works  ....  5.  That  which 
neither  the  lord  of  the  sacrifice  nor  the  sacrifice  rules,  which  neither  the 
giver  nor  the  receiver  rules,  which  is  all-conquering,  all-supporting, 
and  all-working, — declare  to  us  the  kettle,  what  quadruped  it  is." 

(15)  The  Brahmachdrin. 

The  hymn  £o  be  next  quoted  ascribes  very  astonishing  powers  to  the 
Brahmacharin,  or  religious  student.  Spme  parts  of  it  are  obscure,, but 
the  translation  I  give,  though  imperfect,  will  convey  some  idea  of  the 
contents : — 

A.V.  xi.  5,  1 :  Brahmacltdrl  ishnams  charati  rodan  ubhe  tasmin  devdh 

» 

sammanaso  bhavanti  \    sa   dadhtira  prithivim  divam  cha  sa  dchdryam 
tapasd  pipartti  \    2.  Brahmachdrinam  pitaro  devajandh  pritltay  devdh 


400  THE  BRAHMACHARIN. 

anmaihyanti  sarve  \  gandharvdh  enam  anvdyan  trayastrimsat  trisatdh 
shatsahasrdh  \  sarvdn  sa  devdn  tapasu  piparti  \  3.  Achdryah  upanaya- 
mdno  brahmachdrinam  krinute  garbhe  antah  \  tarn  rutrls  tisrah  udare 
bibharti  tamjutaih  drashtum  abhisamyanti  devdh  \  4.  lyam  samit  prithivl 
dyaur  dvitlyd  utdntariksham  samidhd  prinuti  \  brahmachdri  samidhd 
mekhalayd  sramena  lolcdihs  tapasu  pipalli  \  5.  Purvo  jdto  Brahmano 
brahmachdri  gharmam  vasdnas  tapasoditishthat  \  tasmaj  jutam  brdh- 
manam  Jtrahma  jyeshtham  devus  cha  sarve  amritena  sdkam  \  6.  £rah- 
machdri  eli  samidhd  samiddhah  kdrshnam  vasdno  dlkshito  dirghasmasruh  \ 
sa  sadyah  eti  purvasmdd  uttaram  samudram  lokdn  sangribhya  muhur 
dcTiarikrat  \  7.  Brahmachdrl  janayan  brahma  apo  lokam  Prajdpatim 
ParamesJttJdnam  Virdjam  \  garbho  Ihut'vd  amritasya  yondv  Indro  ha 
bhiitvd  asurdms  tatarda  \  8.  Achdryas  tatalcsha  nabhasl  ubhe  ime  urvl 
gambhire  prithivlm  divam  cha  \  te  rakshati  tapasu  brahmachdri  tasmin 
devuh  sammanaso  bhavanli  \  9.  Imam  bhumim  prithivlm  brahmachdri 
bhikshdm  d  jabhdra  prathamo  divam  cha  \  te  kritvd  samidhdv  updste  tayor 
arpitd  bhzivandni  vised  \  10.  Arvdg  any  ah  paro  anyo  divasprishthdd 
guhd  nidhl  nihitau  brdhmanasya  \  tau  rakshati  tapasu  brahmachdri  tat 
Jcevalam  krinute  brahma  vidvun  \  16.  Achdryo  brahmachdri  brahmachdri 
Prajdpatih  \  Prajdpatir  vi  rujati  virdd  Indro  'bhavad  vasl  \  17.  Brah- 
macharyena  tapasu  rdjd  rdshtram  vi  rakshati  \  dchdryo  brahmacharyena 
brahmachdrinam  ichhate  \  18.  Brahmacharyena  kanyd  yuvdnam  vindate 
patim  |  anadvdn  bramacharyena  asvo  ghdsam  jiglshati  \  19.  Brahmacha- 
ryena tapasu  deidh  mrityum  bpdghnata  \  Indro  ha  brahmacharyena  deve- 
Ihyah  svar  dbharat  \  20.  Oshadhayo  bhutabhavyam  ahordtre  vanaspatih  \ 
samvaisarah  saha  ritubhis  te  jutdh  brahmachdrinah  \  21.  Pdrthivdh 
divydh  pasavah  dranydh  grumyds  cha  ye  \  apakshdh  pakshinas  cha  ye  te 
jutdh  brahmachdrinah  \  22.  Prithak  sarve  prajdpatyuli  prdndn  dtmasu 
bibhrati  \  tun  sarvdn  brahma  rukshati  braJimachurini  ubhritam  ....  26. 
Tdni  kalpayad  brahmachdri  salilasya  prishthe  tapo  'tishthat  tapyamdnah 
samudre  \ 

'^The  Brahmacharin  works,  quickening  both  worlds.  The  gods  are 
joyful  in  him.  He  has  established  the  earth  and  the  sky.  He  satis- 
fies his  acharya  (religious  teacher)  by  tapas.  2.  The  Fathers,  the 
heavenly  hosts,  alHhe  gods  separately,  follo'w  after  him,  with  the  6333 
Gandharvas.  He  satisfies  all  the  gods  by  tapas.  3.  The  acharya,  adopt- 
ing him  as  a  disciple,  makes  him  a  Brahmacharin  even  in  the  womb, 


THE  BRAHMACHARIN.  401 

and  supports  him  in  the  belly  for  three  nights.  "When  he  is  born  the 
gods  assemble  to  see  him.  4.  This  piece  of  fuel  is  the  earth  (compare 
verse  9),  the  second  is  the  sky,  and  he  satisfies  the  air  with  fuel.584 
The  brahmacharin  satisfies  the  worlds  with  fuel,  with  a  girdle,  with 
exertion,  with  tapas.  5.  Born  before  Brahma,  the  Brahmacharin  arose 
through  tapas,  clothed  with  "heat.  From  him  was  produced  divine 
knowledge  (brahmana),  the  liighest  Brahma,585  and  all  the  gods, 
together  with  immortality.  6.  The  Brahmacharin  advances,  lighted 
up  by  fuel,  clothed  in  a  black  antelope's  skin,  consecrated,  long-bearded. 
He  moves  straightway  from  the  eastern  to  the  northern  ocean,  com- 
pressing the  worlds,  and  again  expanding  them.  7.  The  Brahmacharin, 
generating  divine  science,  the  waters,  the  world,  Prajapati,  Paramesh- 
thin,  Viraj,  having  become  an  embryo  in  the  womb  of  immortality, 
having  become  Indra,  crushed  the  Asuras.  8.  The  Aeharya  has  con- 
structed both  these  spheres,  broad  and  deep,  the  earth  and  the  sky 
The  Brahmacharin  preserves  them  by  tapas.  In  him  the  gods  are 
joyful.  9.  It  was  the  Brahmacharin  who  first  produced  this  broad 
earth  and  the  sky  as  an  alms.  Making  them  two  pieces  of  fuel  (com- 
pare verse  4),  he  worships.  In  them  all  creatures  are  contained.  10. 
The  two  receptacles  of  divine  knowledge  are  secretly  deposited,  the  one 
on  this  side,  the  other  beyond  the  surface  of  the  sky.  The  Brahma- 
charin guards  them  by  tapas.  Wise,  he  appropriates  that  divine 
knowledge  as  his  exclusive  portion  ....  16.  The  Brahmacharin  is  the 
Acharya,  the  Brahmacharin  is  Prajapati ;'  Prajapati  shines  (vi  rujati} ; 
the  shining  (Yiraj)  became  Indra,  the  powerful.  17.  Through  self- 
restraint  and  tapas  a  king  protects  his  dominions.  Through  self- 
restraint  an  Acharva  seeks  after  a  Brahmacharin.  18.  By  self-restraint 

»  » 

a  damsel  obtains  a  young  man  as  her  husband.     By  self-restraint  an 

ox  and  a  horse  seek  to  gain  fodder.  19.  By  self-restraint  and  tapas 
the  gods  destroyed  death.  By  self-restraint  Indra  acquired  heaven 


* 


584  See  As'valayana's  Grihya  Sutras,  ed.  Steneler,  pp.  12  ff.,  where  the  initiation  of 
the  Brahmacharin,  or  religious  student,  is  described.    Part  of  the  ceremony  is  that  he 
throws  fuel  (samidh)  on  the  fire,  which  he  invokes  with  texts.     This  ritual  is  pro- 
bably alluded  to  in  the  hymn  before  us.     The  Brahmacharin  is  also  mentioned  in 
E,V.  x.  109,  5,  where  he  said  to  be  one  member,  of  the  gods^  (sa  devanam  bhavati 
ekam  any  am).  , 

585  The  words  brahma  jyeshtham,  employed  in  A.V.  x.  7,  32  ff.,  and  x.  8, 1,  appear 
to  designate  a  personal  being  (see  above) .     The  same  may  be  the  case  here. 

26 


402  KAMA. 

from  [or  for]  the  gods.  20.  Plants,  whatever  has  been,  whatever  shall 
be,  day  and  night,  trees,  the  year,  with  the  seasons,  have  been  pro- 
duced from  the  Brahmacharin.  21.  Terrestrial  and  celestial  beings, 
beasts,  both  wild  and  tame,  creatures  without  wings  and  winged,  have 
been  produced  from  the  Brahmacharin.  22.  All  creatures  which  have 
sprung  from  Prajapati  have  breath  separately  in  themselves ;  all  of 
these  are  preserved  by  divine  knowledge  (brahma\  which  is  produced 
in  the  Brahmacharin  ....  26.  These  things  the  Brahmacharin  formed ; 
on  the  surface  of  the  water  he  stood  performing  tapas586  in  the  sea." 

The  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  10,  11,  3,  tells  a  story  illustrative  of  the  great 
virtue  ascribed  to  brahmacharyya,  or  religious  self-restraint : — 

Bharadvdjo  ha  trilhir  dyurbhir  brahmacharyam  uvdsa  \  tarn  hajlrnini 
sthaviram  saydnam  Indrah  upavrajya  uvdcha  "  JJharadvdj'a  yat  te 
chalurtham  dyur  dadyum  him  etena  kurydh"  iti  \  "  Irahmacharyam 
eva  enena  chareyam  "  iti  ha  uvdcha  \  tarn  ha  girirupdn  avijndtan  iva 
darsaydnchakdra  \  teshdm  ha  ekaikasmdd  mushtim  ddade  \  sa  ha  uvdcha 
"  Bharadvaja  "  ity  dmantrya  "veddht  vai  ete  \  anantdh  vai  veddh  \  etad 
vai  etais  trilhir  uyurbliir  anvavochathuh  \  atha  te  itarad  ananuMam  eva  \ 
ehi  imam  viddhi  \  ay  am  vai  sarvavidyd  "  iti  \ 

"Bharadvaja  practised  brahmacharyya  during  three  lives.  Indra, 
approaching  him  when  he  was  lying  decayed  and  old,  said :  'Bharad- 
vaja, if  I  give  thee  a  fourth  life,  what  wilt  thou  do  with  it?' 
He  answered :  '  I  will  use  it  only  to  practise  brahmacharyya.'  He 
showed  him  three  objects,  a&  it  were  unknown,  in  the  shape  of  moun- 
tains. From  each  of  these  he  took  a  handful.  He  said,  addressing 
him  :  'Bharadvaja,  these  are  the  Vedas;  the  Yedas  are  infinite.  This 
is  what  thou  hast  recited  during  these  three  lives.  But  other  things 
have  remained  undeclared  by  thee.  Now  learn  this  (Agni  Savitra). 
This  is  universal  knowledge.'  " 

(16)  Kama. 

We  have  already  seen  above,  that  in  E.V.  x.  129,  4,  desire  is  said 
to  have  been  the  first  movement  that  arose  in'  the  One  after  it  had 

r 

come  into  life  through  the  power  of  fervour  or  abstraction.  This 
Kama,  or  desire,  not  of  sexual  enjoyment^  but  of  good  in  general,  is 
celebrated  in  the  following  curious  hyfmn  (A.V.  ix.  2)  as  a  great  power 

686  Compare  A.Y.  x.  7,  38,  quoted  aljpve. 


KAMA.  403 

superior  to  all  the  gods  ;  and  is  supplicated  for  deliverance  from 
enemies.  Desire,  as  the  first  step  towards  its  own  fulfilment,  must  be 
considered  as  here  identified  with  successful  desire,  or  with  some 
deity  regarded  as  the  inspirer  and  accomplisher  of  the  wishes  of  his 
votaries : — 587 

1.  Sapatna-hanam  rishabham  gJiritena  Kamam  iikshami  havisha 
ujyena  \  riichaih*  sapatnan  mama  padaya  tvam  abhish{uto  mahaia  vlr- 
yena  \  2.  Yad  me  manaso  na  priyam  na  chakshusho  yan  me  babhasti5** 
nalhinandati  \  tad  dushshvapynam  pratimunchami  sapatne  Kamam  stutva 
ud  aham  bhideyam  \  3.  Dushshapnyam  Kama  duritam  cha  Kama  apra- 

587  In  A.V.  iii.  29,  7,  some  light  is  thrown  upon  the  process  by  which  Kama 
came  to  he  regarded  as  a  deity.  We  there  read :  "  Who  hath  given  this,  and  to 
whom  ?  Kama  has  given  it  to  Kama  (i.e.  the  inspirer,  or  fulfiller,  of  desire,  has 
given  it  to  desire) .  Kama  is  the  giver  (i.e.  the  inspirer,  or  fulfiller,  of  desire) ; 
Kama  is  the  receiver.  Kama  has  entered  into  the  ocean.  Through  Kama  I  receive 
thee,  Kama,  this  is  thine  "  (kah  idalh  kasmai  adat  kamah  kamaya  adat  \  kamo  data 
kamah  pratigrahlta  kamah  samudram  a  vivesa  \  kamena  tva  pratigrihnami  kama  etat 
te).  This  verse  is,  I  find,  quoted  by 'Mr.  Colebrooke,  Mis.  Ess.  i.  210,  as  a  text 
forming  part  of  the  Indian  marriage  ritual.  See  also  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  2,  5,  5f.  The 
allusion  here  made  to  Kama  entering  the  ocean  recalls  the  fact  that  Agni  is  often  said 
to  be  produced  from  or  exist  in  the  waters  (R.V.  x.  2,  7 ;  x.  51,  3  ;  x.  91,  6 ;  A.V. 
i.  33,  1 ;  iii.  21,  1).  And  in  A.V.  iii.  21,  4,  Kama  is  distinctly  identified  with  Agni : 
"The  god  (Agni),  who  is  omnivorous,  whom  they  call  Kama,  whom  they  call  the 
giver  and  the  receiver,  who  is  wise,  strong,  pre-eminent,  unconquerable  ;  —  to  these 
Agnis  let  this  oblation  be  oifered"  (yo  dcvo  visvad  yam  u  kamam  ahur  yam  dataram 
pratigrihnantam  ahuh  \  yo  dhirah  sakrah  paribhur  adabhyas  tebhyo  agnibhyo  hutam 
astv  etat}.  See  also  S.V.  ii.  1060  (  =  A.V.  vi.'36,  3;  Vaj.  Sanh.  xii.  117)  agnih 
priyeshu  dhamasu  kamo  bhutasya  bhavyasya  \  samrad  eko  virajati  \  "  Agni,  Kama, 
the  one  monarch  of  things  past  and  future,  shines  in  his  dear  abodes."  See  also  Taitt. 
Sanh.  ii.  2,  3,  1.  Agnaye  Kamaya  "To  Agni  Kama,  etc."  See  also  the  passages 
cited  by  Professor  Weber,  Ind.  Stud.  v.  225,  f.  In  some  parts  of  the  hymn  before 
us,  (A.V.  ix.  2)  the  same  identification  of  Kama  with  Agni  appears  to  be  made. 
Thus  in  v.  1,  Kama,  and  in  v.  8,  Kama  and  other  gods,  are  said  to  be  worshipped 
with  butter,  an  oblation  especially  appropriate  to  Agni.  In  vv.  4  and  9,  Agni  is 
called  upon  to  burn  the  dwellings  of  the  worshipper's  enemies,  whom  Kama  had  just 
been  besought  to  destroy.  Again,  in  v.  25,  the  auspicious  bodies,  or  manifestations 
(tanvah)  of  Kama  are  referred  to  just  as  those  of  Agni  are  in  other  hymns  (as.E.V. 
x.  16,  4  :  A.V.  xviii.  4,  }0  ;  comp.  Vaj.  S.  xvi.  2).  On  the  other  hand,  however, 
Agni  is  specified  separately  from  Kama  in  v.  6 ;  ani  in  v.  24,  Kama  is  represented  as 
superior  to  Agni,  as  well  as  to  Vata,  Surya,  and  Chandramas  (the  moon).  In  v.  9, 
Indra  and  Agni  are  mentioned  »long  with  Kama,  though  the  verb  with  which  these 
gods  are  connected  is  in  the  dual.  But  although' in  these  veiSes  Agni  and  Kama  are 
distinguished  from  each  other,  Kama  \nay  be  there  looked  upon  as  a  superior  form  of 
the  other  deity. 

ssa  Compare  Messrs.  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon,  s.v.  bhas. 


404  KAMA. 

jastdm  asvagatdm  avartim  \  ugrah  Isdnah  prati  muncha  tasmin  yo  asma- 
bhyam  amhurand  chikitsdt  \  4.  Nudasva  Kama  pranudasva  Kama 
avarttim  yantu  mama  ye  sapatndh  \  teshdm  nuttdndm  adhamd  tamdmsi 
Agne  vdstilni  nirdaha  tvam  \  5.  Sd  te  Kama  duhitd  dhenur  uchyate  yam 
dhur  Vdcham  kavayo  Virdjam  \  tayd  sapatndn  part  vrindhi  ye  mama 
pari  endn  prdnah  pasavo  jlvanam  vrinaktu  |  .  .  .  .  7.  Visve  devdh  mama 
ndtham  bhavantu  sarve  devdh  havam  d  yantu  me  imam*  \  8.  Idam  djyad 
ghritavaj  jushdndh  Kdma-jyeshthdh  iha  mddayadhvam  \  krinvanto  mahyam 
asapatnam  eva  \  9.  Indrdgnl  Kama  saratham  hi  bhutvd  nlchaih  sapatndn 
mama  pddaydthah  \  teshdm  panndndm  adhamd  tamdmsi  Agne  vdstuni  ami 
nirdaha  tvam  \  10.  Jahi  tvam  Kama  mama  ye  sapatndh  andhd  tamdmsi  ava 
pddayaindn  \  nirindriydh  arasdh  santu  sarve  md  tejlvishuh  katamach  chand- 
hah  |  11.  Avadhit  Kdmo  mama  ye  sapatndh  urum  lokam  aJcarad  mahyam 
edhatum  \  mahyam  namantdm pradisas  chatasro  mahyam  shad  urvir  ghritam 
d  vahantu  \  12.  Te  adhardnchah  pra  plai\antdm  chhinnd  nauriva  landha- 
ndt  \  na  sdyaka-pranuttdndm  punar  asti  nivartanam  |  ....  16.  Yat  te 
Kama  sarma  trivarutham  udlhu  Irahma  varma  vitatam  anativyddhyaih 
Icritam  \  tena  sapatndn — |  17.  Yena  devdh  asurdn  prdnudanta  yenendro 
dasyun  adhamam  tamo  nindya  \  tena  tvam  Kama  mama  ye  sapatnds  tan 
asmdl  lokdt  pra  nudasva  duram  \  19.  Kdmo  jajne  prathamo  nainam 
devdh  dpnh  pitaro  na  martydh  \  tatas  tvam  asi  jydydn  visvahd  mahdms 
tasmai  te  Kama  namah  it  krinomi  \  20.  Ydvatl  dydvd-prithivl  varimnd 
ydvad  dpah  sishyadur  ydvad  Agnih  \  tatah — |  21.  Ydvatlr  disah  pra- 
diso  vishuchlr  ydvatlr  dsdh  abhichakshandh  divah  \  tatah — |  22.  Ydvatlr 
Ihringdh  jatvah  kururavo  ydvatlr  vaghdh  vrikshasarpyo  lalhuvuh  \ 
tatah — |  23.  Jydydn  nimishato  'shi  tishthato  jydydn  samudrdd  asi  Kama 
Manyo — |  24.  fia  vai  Vdtas  chana  Kdmam  dpnoti  ndgnih  suryo  nota 
chandramdh  \  tatah — |  25.  Yds  te  iivds  tanvah  Kama  lhadrdh  ydlhih 
satyam  bhavati  yad  vrinlshe  \  tdbhis  tvam  asmdn  abhisamvisasva  anyatra 
pdplr  apa  vesaya  dhiyah  \  , 

"  1.  With  oblations  of  butter  I  worship  Kama,  583  the  mighty  slayer 
of  enemies.  Do  thou,  when  lauded,  beat  down  riy  foes  by  thy  great 
might.  2.  The  sleeplessness  which  is  displeasing  to  my  mind  and  eye, 

e89  In  the  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  8,  8,  8,  S'raddha,  or  faitb,  is  said  to  be  the  mother  of 
Kama  (sraddham  kamaya  mataranf).  This,  however,  the  commentator  explains  as 
signifying  merely  that  she  is  the  means  of  obtaining  all  desired  rewards,  since  no 
action  takes  place  unless  men  have  faith  (sa  ii/am  ichha  visvasa-vyatirekena  kasyapi 
vyavaharasya  alhavad  " Kamasya  mataram"  kamyamanaphalasya  utpadikam). 


KAMA.  405 

which  harasses  and  does  not  delight  me,  that  sleeplessness  I  let  loose 
upon  my  enemy.  Having  praised  Kama,  may  I  rend  him.  3.  Kama, 
do  thou,  a  fierce  lord,  let  loose  sleeplessness,  misfortune,  childlessness, 
homelessness,  and  want,  upon  him  who  designs  us  evil.  4.  Send  them 
away,  Kama,  drive  them  away ;  may  they  fall  into  misery,  those  who 
are  my  enemies.  When  they  have  heen  hurled  into  the  nethermost 
darkness,  do  thou,  Agni,  burn»up  their  dwellings.  5.  That  daughter 
of  thine,  Kama,  is  named  the  Cow,  which  sages  call  Vach  Yiraj.  By 
her  drive  away  my  enemies.  May  breath,  cattle,  life,  forsake  them. 
'.  .  .  .  7.  May  all  the  gods  be  my  defence ;  may  all  the  gods  attend 
upon  this  my  invocation.  8.  Ye  [gods],  of  whom  Kama  is  the  highest, 
accepting  this  oblation  of  butter,  be  joyful  in  this  place,  granting  me 
deliverance  from  my  enemies.  9.  Indra,  Agni,  and  Kama,  mounted 
on  the  same  chariot,  hurl  ye  down  my  foes ;  when  they  have  fallen 
into  the  nethermost  darkness,  do  thou,  Agni,  burn  up  their  dwellings. 
10.  Kama,  slay  my  enemies ;  'cast  them  down  into  thick  (literally, 
blind)  darkness.  Let  them  all  become  destitute  of  power  and  vigour, 
and  not  live  a  single  day.  1 1 .  Kama  has  slain  my  enemies,  has  made 
for  me  wide  room  and  prosperity.  May  the  four  regions  bow  down 
to  me,  and  the  six  worlds  bring  fatness.  12  (=A.V.  iii.  6,  7).  Let 
them  (my  enemies)  float  downwards  like  a  boat  severed  from  its 
moorings.  There  is  no  return  for  those  who  have  been  put  to  flight 
by  our  arrows  ....  16.  With  that  triple  and  effectual  protection  of 
thine,  o  Kama,  that  spell  (brahma),  which  has  been  extended  [in  front 
of  us  as]  armour,  and  made  impenetrable,  do  thou  drive  away,  etc.  (as 
in  v.  5).  17.  Do  thou,  Kama,  drive  my  enemies  far  from  this  world 
by  that  [same  weapon,  or  amulet]  wherewith  the  gods  repelled  the 
Asuras,  and  Indra  hurled  the  Dasyus  into  the  nethernlost  darkness.590 
(Verse  18  is  nearly  a  repetition  of  verse  17.)  19.  Kama  was  born  the 

590  In  A.V.  •vjii.  5,  3,  mention  is  made  of  a  jewel  or  amulet,  "  by  which  Indra  slew 
Vrittra,  overcame  the  Asuras,  and  conquered  heaven  and  earth,  and  the  four  regions" 
(anenendro  manina  vrittram  ahann  anenasuran  parabhavayad  manlshl).  And  in 
A.V.  viii.  8,  5  ff.  we  are  told  of  another  instrument  of  offence  belonging  to  Indra,  in 
addition  to  the  thunderbolt,  arrows,  and  hook,  ctescribed  in  the  K,  V.  (see  above, 
p.  87  f.)  viz.,  a  net.  5.  "  The  air  was  his  net ;  and  the  great  regions  the  rods  for 
extending  the  net.  Enclosing  -tfithin  it  the  host  of  the  Dasyus,  S'akra  overwhelmed 
it.  7.  Great  is  the  net  of  thee  who  art  great,*  0  heroic  lidra !  .  .  .  .  Within  it 
enclosing  them,  S'akra  slew  a  hundred,  a  thousand,  ten  thousand,  a  hundred  millions 
of  Dasyus,  with  his  army." 


406  KAMA. 

first.  Him  neither  gods,  nor  Fathers,  nor  men,  have  equalled.  Thou 
art  superior  to  these,  and  for  ever  great.  To  thee,  Kama,  I  offer 
reverence.  20.  "Wide  as  are  the  heaven  and  earth  in  extent ;  far  as 
the  waters  have  swept ;  far  as  Agni  [has  hlazed]  ; — thou  art  yet 
superior  to  these  (as  in  verse  19).  21.  Great  as  are  the  regions  and 
the  several  intermediate  regions,  the  celestial  tracts,  and  the  vistas  of 
the  sky, — thou  art  yet  superior,  etc.  2#.  As  many  bees,  hats,  reptiles, 
vaghas  (?),  and  tree-serpents  as  there  are,  thou  art  yet  superior,  etc. 
23.  Thou  art  superior  to  all  that  winks,  or  stands, — superior  to  the 
sea,  0  Kama,  Manyu.  Thou  art  superior,  etc.  24.  Even  Vata  (the 
Wind)  does  not  vie  with  Kama,  nor  does  Agni,  nor  Surya,  nor  Chand- 
ramas  (the  Moon).  Thou  art  superior,  etc.  25.  "With  those  auspicious 
and  gracious  forms  of  thine;  o  Kama,  through  which  that  which  thou 
choosest  becomes  real, — with  them  do  thou  enter  into  us,  and  send 
malevolent  thoughts  away  somewhere  else." 

A.V.  xix.  52,  is  another  hymn  addressed  to  the  same  deity. 

It  is  well  known  that  Greek  mythology  connected  Eros,  the  god  of 
love,  with  the  creation  of  the  universe,  somewhat  in  the  same  way  as 
Kama  is  associated  with  it  in  E.Y.  x.  129,  4  (see  above,  p.  357). 
Thus  Plato  says  in  the  Symposium  (sec.  6)  : 

Poi^}?  <yap  "Epwros  OUT'  'eialv  ovre  \eyovrai  'VTT    ovSevos  ovre 
IBuarov  ovre  TTOIIJTOV,  dXV  'HcrioSo?  Trpwrov  [lev  %ao9 
(t  avrap  eireira 

<ydL  evpvcrrepvos,  iravrwv  eiBo?  acr(f)d\ 

V'-E/w." 

$r)al   /ji€ra   TO  %ao?  ovo  TOVTCO  <yevecr6ai,   yrjv    re   /cat  "Epcora. 
IIapfjt,evi?yr]<>  &J  rrjv  fyeve(riv  \eyei,  "  7rp(ort,crTov  fiev  "Epafra  6ea>v 

iravrwv"     'HcrioSa)  $e  real  'Afcov(ri\eci)<i  6fj,o\oiyei.     ovrw 

ev  ofj,o\o^elrai  o  "Epcos  ev  TOIS  TrpecrftvTcnoi?  eivai. 
"Eros  neither  had  any  parents,  nor  is  he  said  by  any  unlearned  man 
or  by  any  poet  to  have  had  any.  But  Hesiod  declares  that  chaos  first 
arose,  and  'then  the  broad-bosomed  earth,  ever  the  firm  abode  of  all 
things,  and  Eros.'  He  says  that,  after  chaos,  these  two  things  were 
produced,  the  earth  and  Erps.  Parmenides,  too,  speaks  thus  of  the 
creation,  '  He  devised  Eros  the  first  of  all  the  gods.'  And  Acusilaus 
also  agreed  with  Hesiod.  From  so  many  quarters  is  Eros  admitted  to 


KALA,  OR  TIME.  407 

be  one  of  the  oldest  deities."  (See  the  article  Eros  in  Dr.  Smith's 
Dictionary  of  Greek  and  Roman  Biography  and  Mythology,  and  the 
authorities  there  referred  to.) 

In  another  hymn  of  the  A.V.  (iii.  25),  Kama,  like  the  Eros  of  the 
Greeks,  and  Cupid  of  the  Latins,  is  described  as  the  god  of  sexual  love. 
The  commencement  of  it  is  as'Yollows  : 

Uttudas  tvd  ufyudatu  ma  dhrithdh  sayane  sve  \  ishuh  Kdmasya  yd 
bhlmd  tayd  vidhydmi  tvd  hridi  \  2.  Adhlparndm  Kdma-salydm  ishum 
sankalpa-lculmaldm  \  tdm  susannatdm  Icritvd  Kdmo  vidhyatti  tvd  hridi  \ 
3.  Yd  pllhdnam  soshayati  Kdmasyeshuh  susannatd  | .  .  .  .  tayd  vidhydmi 
tvd  hridi  \ 

"  1.  May  the  disquieter  disquiet  thee.  Do  not  rest  upon  thy  bed. 
With  the  terrible  arrow  of  Kama  I  pierce  thee  in  the  heart.  2.  May 
Kama,  having  well  directed  the  arrow  which  is  winged  with  pain, 
barbed  with  longing,  and  has  desire  for  its  shaft,  pierce  thee  in  the 
heart.  3.  With  the  well-aimed  arrow  of  Kama,  which  dries  up  the 
spleen,  ....  I  pierce  thee  in  the  .heart." 591 

(17)  Kdla,  or  Time. 

In  the  next  two  remarkable  hymns  we  find  an  altogether  new  doc- 
trine, as  Time  is  there  described  as  the  source  and  ruler  of  all  things : — 

A.Y.  xix.  54  : 592  1.  Kdlo  asvo  vahati  saptarasmih  sahasrdksho  ajaro 
lihuriretu.il  \  tarn  d  rohanti  kavayo  vipaschitas  tasya  chalcrd  Ihuvandni 
visvd  |  2.  Sapta  chaJcrd  vahati  Kdlah  esha  saptdsya  ndbhlr  amritam  nu 
alcshah  \  sa  imd  visvd  bhuvandni  arvdn  Kdlah  sa  lyate  prathamo  nu 
devah  \  3.  Purnah  Jcumbho  adhi  Kale  dhitas  tarn  vai  pasyamo  lahudhd 
nu  sant(.ym  \  sa  imd  visvd  bhuvandni  pratyan  Kdlam  tow  dhuh  parame 
vyoman  \  4.  Sa  eva  sam  bhuvandni  dlharat  sa  eva  sam  bhuvandni 
paryait  \  pita  sann  abhavat  putrah  eshdm  tasmdd  vai  ndnyat  param  asti 
tejah  \  5.  Kah  'mum  divam  ajanayat  Kdlali  imdh  prithivlr  uta  \  Kdlena 
bhutam  lhavyam  cha  ishitam  ha  vi  tishthate  \  6.  Kdlo  Ihumim  asrijata 
Kdle  tapati  suryah  \  "Kale  ha  visvd  bhutdni  Kale  chaJcshur  vi  pasyati  \ 
7.  Kdle  manah  Kdle  prdnah  Kdle  ndma  "^amdhitam  \  Kdlena  sarvdh 

591  This  hymn  is  translated  b^  Professor  "Weber  in  his  Indische  Studien,  v.  224  ff., 
from  whose  version  I  have  derived  assistance. 

692  &  great  deal  is  said  about  the  potency  of  Kula,  or  Time,  in  the  S'anti-parva  of 
the  Mahabharata,  vv.  8106,  8112,  8125  ff.,  8139-8144,  8758,  9877  f.,  10060. 


408  KALA,  OK  TIME. 

nandanti  dgatena  prajdh  imdh  \  8.  Kale  tapah  Kale  jyeshtham  Kale 
Brahma  samdhitam  \  Kdlo  ha  sarvasyesvaro  yah  pita  "sit  Prajdpateh  \ 
9.  Teneshitam  tena  j'dtam  tad  u  tasmm  pratishthitam  \  Kdlo  ha  Brahma 
bhutvd  bibharti  Parameshthinam  \  10-  Kdlah  prajdh  asrijata  Kdlo  agre 
Prajdpatim  \  Svayambhuh  Kasyapah  Kdldt  tapah  Kdldd  ajdyata  \ 

"  1.  Time  carries  [us]  forward,  a  steefi,  with  seven  rays,  a  thousand 
eyes,  undecaying,  full  of  fecundity.  Ou  him  intelligent  sages  mount ; 
his  wheels  are  all  the  worlds.  2.  This  Time  moves  on  seven  wheels  ; 
he  has  seven  naves ;  immortality  is  his  axle.  He  is  at  present  all 
these  worlds.  Time  hastens  onward,  the  first  god.  3.  A  full  jar  is 
contained  in  Time.  We  behold  him  existing  in  many  forms.  He  is  all 
these  worlds  in  the  future.  They  call  him  Time  in  the  highest  heaven. 

4.  It  is  he  who  drew  forth  the  worlds,  and  encompassed  them.    Being 
the  father,  he  became  their  son.  There  is  no  other  power  superior  to  him. 

5.  Time  generated  the  sky  and  these  earths.     Set  in  motion  by  Time, 
the  past  and  the  future  subsist.     6.  Time  created  the  earth ;  by  Time 
the  sun  burns ;  through  Time  all  beings  [exist]  ;  through  Time  the  eye 
sees.     7.  Mind,  breath,  name,  are  embraced  in  Time.     All  these  crea- 
tures rejoice  when  Time  arrives.     8.  In  Time  rigorous  abstraction,  in 
Time  the  highest,  in  Time  divine  knowledge,  is  comprehended.     Time 
is  lord  of  all  things,  he  who  was  the  father  of  Prajapati.     9.  That 
[universe]  has  been  set  in  motion  by  him,  produced  by  him,  and  is 
supported  on  him.    Time,  becoming  divine  energy,  supports  Paramesh- 
thin.     10.  Time  produced  crbatures  ;  Time  in  the  beginning  [formed] 
Prajapati.     The  self-born593  Kasyapa   sprang  from   Time,  and  from 
Time  [sprang]  rigorous  abstraction  (tapas)." 

A.V.  xix.  54,  1.  Kdldd  dpah  samabhavan  Kdldd  brahma  tapo  disah  \ 
£ , 

Kdlenodeti  Suryo  Kale  ni  visate  punah  \  2.  Kdlena  vdtah  pavate  Kdlena 

593  The  word  which  T  have  rendered  "self-horn"'  is  svayambhu.  This  term  must 
in  certain  cases  he  rendered  by  "self-existent,"  as  in  Manu  i.  (X  11,  where  it  is 
applied  to  the  undeveloped  primeval  Deity,  the  creator  of  Brahma.  In  other  places, 
however,  Brahma  himself,  the  derived  creator,  is  called  svayambhu,  as  in  M.  Bh. 
S'antip.  v.  7569,  though  he  had  previously  (in  v.  7530)  been  declared  to  have  been 
born  in  a  lotus  sprung  from  tlie  navel  of  Sankarshana,  the  first-born  offspring 
(v.  7527)  of  Vishnu.  The  same  epithet  is  applied  to  Brahma  in  the  Bhag.  Pur. 
iii.  8,  15.  But  in  fact,  Svnyambhfi  is  well  known  to  be  one  of  the  synonyms  of 
Brahma,  though  that  god  is  nowhere  represented  as  an  underived,  self-existent  being. 
This  word  must  therefore  be  regarded  as  not  necessarily  meaning  anything  more  than 
one  who  comes  into  existence  in  an  extraordinary  and  supernatural  manner. 


KALA,  OR  TIME.  409 

Prithivl  mahl  \  Dyaur  mahl  Kale  dhitd  \  3.  Kale  ha  Ututam  bhavyam 
cha  mantro  ajanayat  pwd  \  Kdldd  richah  samabhavan  yajuh  Kdldd 
ajdyata  \  4.  Kale  yajnam  samairayan  develhyo  bhtigam  akshitam  \  Kale 
gandharvdpsarasah  Kale  lokdh  pratishthitdh  \  5.  Kale  'yam  angirdh 
divo  atharvd  chddhi  tishthatah  \  imam  cha  lokam  paramam  cha,  lokam 
punydms  cha  lokdn  vidhritis"cha  punydh  \  6.  Sarvdn  lokdn  alhijitya 
brahmand  Kdlah  sa  lyate  paranx  nu  devah  \ 

"  1.  From  Time  the  waters  were  produced,  together  with  divine 
knowledge,  tapas,  and  the  regions.  Through  Time  the  sun  rises  and 
again  sets.  2.  Through  Time  the  wind  blows  ;  through  time  the 
earth  is  vast.  The  great  sky  is  embraced  in  Time.  3.  Through  Time 
the  hymn  formerly  produced  both  the  past  and  the  future.  From 
Time  sprang  the  Eik  verses.  The  Taj  us  was  produced  from  Time.  4. 
Through  Time  they  created  the  sacrifice,  an  imperishable  portion  for 
the  gods.  On  Time  the  Gandharvas  and  Apsarases,  on  Time  the 
worlds  are  supported.  5,  6.  Through  Time  this  Angiras  and  Athar- 
van  rule  over  the  sky.  Having  through  divine  knowledge  conquered 
both  this  world,  and  the  highest  world,  and  the  holy  worlds,  and 
the  holy  ordinances,  yea  all  worlds,  Time  moves  onward  as  the 
supreme  god." 

Rohita  is  identified  with  Kala,  A.Y.  xiii.  2,  39. 

The  conception  of  Kala  in  these  hymns  is  one  which,  if  taken  in  its 
unmodified  shape,  would  have  been  esteemed  heretical  in  later  times.594 
Thus,  among  the  several  forms  of  speculation  which  are  mentioned  at 
the  commencement  of  the  S'vetasvatara  TJpanishad,  for  the  purpose,  no 
doubt,  of  being  condemned  as  erroneous,  is  one  which  regards  Kala,  or 
Time,  as  the  origin  of  all  things.  The  line  in  which  these  different 
systems  are  mentioned  is  as  follows :  kdlah  svabhdvo  niyatir  yadrichhd 
bhutdni  yonih  purmhah.  It  is  the  verse  referred  to  in  the  following 
note  of  Professor  "Wilson,  in  vol.  i.  p.  19  of  his  Vishnu  Purana  (Dr.  Hall's 
ed.) :  "  The  commentator  on  the  Moksha  Dharma  (a  part  of  the  S'anti- 
parva  of  the  M.  Bh.^  cites  a  passage  from  the  Vedas,  which  he  under- 


694  The  M.  Bh.,  however,  Anus'asana-parva,  verses  51-56,  makes  Mrityu,  or 
death,  declare  that  all  nature, '  all  creatures,  the,  world  itself,  all  actions,  cessations 
and  changes,  derive  their  essential  character  from  Time,  while  the  gods  themselves, 
including  Vishnu,  are,  time  after  time,  created  and  destroyed  by  the  same  power  (sarve 
kalena  srijyante  hriyante  cha  punah  punaK), 


410        GENERAL  REMARKS  ON  THE  PRECEDING  PASSAGES. 

stands  to  allude  to  the  different  theories  of  the  cause  of  creation  (then 
follows  the  line  just  quoted)  ;  time,  inherent  nature,  consequence  of 
acts,  self-will,  elementary  atoms,  matter  and  spirit,  asserted  severally 
by  the  astrologers,  the  Buddhists,  the  Mimansakas,  the  logicians,  the 
Sankhyas,  and  the  Vedantins."  595  , 

The  Maitri  TJpanishad  also  celebrates  «JKala,  vi.  14  f.,  declaring  that 
the  sun  is  its  source  (suryo  yonih  kdlasyei}.  We  find  there  the  follow- 
ing verse  :  kaldt  sravanti  Ihutdni  kdldd  vriddhim  praydnti  cJia  \  kale 
chdstam  niyachhanti  Jcdlo  murtir  amurtimdn  \  "  By  Time  creatures 
waste,  by  Time  they  increase  ;  in  Time  they  set  :  Time  is  a  formless 
form."  The  writer  proceeds  :  Dve  vdva  Brahmano  rupe  Kolas  cJia 
Akdlas  cha  \  atha  yah  prag  Aditydt  so  'kdlo  'kalah  \  atha  yah  Adityd- 
dyah  sa  Kdlah  sakdlah  \  "There  are  two  forms  of  Brahma,  Time  and 
No-time.  That  which  is  before  the  sun  is  No-time,  devoid  of  parts  ; 
and  that  which  is  subsequent  to  the  sun  is  Time,  with  parts." 

Manu  (i.  24)  declares  Kala  (Time)  lo  have  been  one  of  the  things 
created  by  Brahma.  But  though  not  admitted  as  itself  the  origin  of  all 
things,  Kala  is,  nevertheless,  recognized  by  the  author  of  the  Vishnu 
Purana  as  one  of  the  forms  of  the  Supreme  Being.  See  pp.  18,  19,  and 
25,  of  Dr.  Hall's  edition  of  Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  and  the  note  in 
p.  19,  already  referred  to,  where  Professor  Wilson  says,  "  Time  is  not 
usually  enumerated  in  the  Puranas  as  an  element  of  the  '  first  cause  ;  ' 
but  the  Padma  Purana  and  the  Bhagavata  agree  with  the  Vishnu  in 
including  it.  It  appears  to  .have  been  regarded,  at  an  earlier  date,  as 
an  independent  cause."  See  the  Bhag.  Pur.  iii.  5,  34-37;  iii.  8, 
11  ft.  ;  iii.  10,  10-13  ;  iii.  11,  1  ff.  ;  iii.  12,  1  ff.  We  thus  find  the 
authors  of  the  Puranas  interweaving  with  their  own  cosmogonies  all 
the  older  elements  of  speculation  which  they  discovered  in  the  Vedas  ; 
and,  by  blending  heretical  materials  with  others  which  were  more 
orthodox,  contriving  to  neutralize  the  heterodoxy  of  the  former. 

T 

x  (18)  General  remarks  on  the  preceding  passages. 

A  few  general  observations  are  suggested  by  a  consideration  of  the 
principal  passages  which  have  been  quoted  in  this  section. 


595  «  KpSvos  was  also,"  adds  Prof.  "Wilson,  <r<  one  of  the  first  generated  agents  in 
creation,  according  to  the  Orphic  theogony." 


WHAT  WAS  THE  EARLIEST  FORM  OF  ARYAN  RELIGION?     411 

I.  The  conceptions  of  the  godhead  expressed  in  these  texts  are  of  a 
wavering  and  undetermined  character.    It  is  clear  that  the  authors  had 
not  attained  to  a  distinct  and  logical  comprehension  of  the  character- 
istics which  they  ascribed  to  the  objects  of  their  adoration.     On  the 
one  hand,  the  attributes  of  infinity,  omnipotence,   omnipresence,  are 
ascribed  to  different  beings,  01*  to  the  same  being  under  the  various 
names  of  Purusha,  Skambha,  Brahma,  Hiranyagarbha,  etc.  (R.y.  x. 
90,  1  ff. ;  x.  121, 'l  ff.    A.V.  x.  7,  10,  13,  31-33;  x.  8,  1).     And  yet 
in  other  places  these  same  qualities  are  represented  as  subject  to  limi- 
tations, and  these  divine  beings  themselves  are  said  to  expand  by  food, 
to  be  produced  from  other  beings  (as  Purusha  from  Yiraj),  to  be  sacri- 
ficed, to  be  produced  from  tapas,  or  to  perform  tapas  (R.V.  x.  90,  2,  4, 
7.  A.Y.  x.  2,  12  ff.,  26;  x.  7,  31,  36,  38). 

II.  In  these  passages  divine  power  is  variously  conceived,  sometimes 
as  the  property  of  one  supreme  person,  as  Purusha,  Skambha,  etc.  ; 
while  in  other  places  it  is  attached  (1)  to  some  abstraction,  as  Kama 
(Desire),  Kala  (Time),  or  (2)  to  some  personification  of  energies  re- 
siding in  living  beings,  as   Prana   (Life  or  Breath),  or  (3)  of  the 
materials  (Uchhishta)  or  the  implements  (juhu,  upabhrit,  etc.)  of  sacri- 
fice, or  is  ascribed  (4)  to  the  vehicles  of  adoration,  to  hymns  and 
metres,  such  as  the  Viraj,  which  is  said  (A.V.  viii.  10  1)  to  have  been 
identical  with  the  world,  or  (5)  to  the  guardian  of  sacred  science,  and 
future  minister  of  religious  rites,  the  Brahmacharin.    It  need  occasion 
no  surprise  that  the  young  priest  should  be  regarded  as  invested  with 
such  transcendent  attributes,  when  even  the  sacrifices  which  he  was 
being  trained  to  celebrate,  the  hymns  and  metres  in  which  he  invoked 
the  gods,  and  the  very  sacrificial  vessels  he  handled  were  conceived  to 
possess  a  supernatural  potency.  ' 

We  find  here  a  singular  variety  in  the  elements  of  thought  and  feel- 
ing which  have  concurred  to  give  birth  to  this  crude  congeries  of  ideas, 
in  which  the  real  centre  of  divine  power  is  obscured,  while  a  multitude 
of  inferior  objects  are  magnified  into  unreal  proportions,  and  invented 
with  a  fictitious  sanctity.  But  these  extraordinary  representations  reveal 
to  us  in  the  Indians  of  the  Vedic  age  a  conception  of  the  universe 
which  was  at  once  (a)  mystical  or  sacramental,  (i)  polytheistic,  and  (e) 
pantheistic ;  (a)  everything  connected  with  religious  rites  being  im- 
agined to  have  in  it  a  spiritual  as  well  as  a  physical  potency ;  (£)  all 


412       PICTET'S  VIEW  OF  THE  EARLIEST  ARYAN  RELIGION. 

parts  of  nature  being   separately  regarded  as  invested  with  divine 
power ;  and  yet  (c)  as  constituent  parts  of  one  great  whole. 

(19)  Whether  polytheism  or  monotheism   was  the  earliest  form  of  the 
Aryan  religion:  opinions  of  'Messrs.  Pictet,  Pfleiderer,   Scherer, 

Reville,  and  Roth  on  this  subject. 

«» 

I  shall  add  some  remarks  on  the  relation  of  the  Vedic  polytheism  to 
the  earlier  religion,  which  we  may  suppose  to  have  prevailed  among 
the  primitive  Aryans. 

M.  Adolphe  Pictet,  in  his  work  "Les  Origines  Indo-Europeennes," 
vol.  ii.,  has  lately  discussed  the  question  whether  that  religion  was 
from  the  first  a  polytheism,  embracing  the  principal  powers  of  nature, 
as  comparative  philology  shows  it  to  have  been  about  the  time  of  the 
separation  of  the  different  branches  of  the  race,  or  whether  it  had  been 
originally  monotheistic. 

He  thinks  that  as  a  polytheism,  such  as  we  find  existing  at  the 
dawn  of  Aryan  history,  could  only  have  been  developed  gradually,  it 
must  have  been  preceded  by  a  more  simple  system  (p.  651).  This 
inference  he  supports  by  the  remark  that  the  names  of  most  of  the  gods 
in  the  Aryan  mythology  correspond  with  those  of  the  great  objects  of 
nature,  designated  by  some  of  their  most  characteristic  attributes. 
But  as  these  natural  objects  have  derived  their  appellations  from  their 
physical  qualities  alone,  they  could  not  originally,  at  the  time  when 
they  received  their  names,  have  been  regarded  as  divinities.  If  nature- 
worship  had  prevailed  among  the  Aryans  from  the  commencement, 
some  trace  of  this  fact  must  have  been  preserved  in  their  Janguage, 
which,  however,  manifests  nothing  but  the  most  complete  realism 
as  regards  the  epithets  applied  to  natural  phenomena.  As  it  thus 
appears  that  the  great  objects  of  nature  could  not  havefbeen  regarded 
as  divine  at  the  time  when  the  language  was  formed,  the  Aryans  could 
not*  originally  have  been  polytheistic.  It  is,  not,  however,  to  be 
imagined  that  a  race  so  highly  gifted  should,  even  at  this  early  period, 
have  been  destitute  of  all  religious  sentiments  and  beliefs.  But  if  not 
polytheists,  they  ,must  have1  been  monotheists.  This  conclusion  M. 
Pictet  corroborates  by  referring  to  thecmost  ancient  names  of  the  deity, 
such  as  Deva,  etc.,  which  he  regards  as  in  their  origin  unconnected 


REMARKS  ON  M.  PICTET'S  VIEWS.  413 

with  natural  objects  or  phenomena.  This  primitive  monotheism  of  the 
Aryans  he  supposes  to  have  arisen  from  the  necessity*  which  they 
instinctively  felt  to  refer  the  production  of  the  world  to  one  first  Cause, 
which  they  would  naturally  place,  not  on  earth,  their  own  familiar 
ahode,  but  in  the  mysterious  and  inaccessible  heavens.  This  supreme 
being  would  thus  be  called  Deva,  or  the  celestial ;  and  as  the  heaven 
which  he  inhabited  was  one,  so  would  He  himself  also  be  conceived  of 
as  an  Unity.  This  primitive  monotheism,  however,  could  not  have 
been  very  clearly  defined,  but  must  have  remained  a  vague,  obscure, 
and  rudimentary  conception.  It  would  not  otherwise  be  easy  to  under- 
stand how  it  should  have  degenerated  into  polytheism.  But  as  the 
idea  of  God  remained  veiled  in  this  mysterious  obscurity,  it  became 
necessary  for  the  worshippers  to  seek  for  some  divinities  intermediate 
between  Him  and  themselves,  through  whom  they  might  approach 
Him  ;  and  to  explain  the  multiplicity  of  phenomena  (which  they  were 
not  as  yet  sufficiently  enlightened  to  derive  from  the  uniform  action  of 
one  central  will),  by  regarding  them  as  regulated  by  a  plurality  of 
divine  agents.  At  first,  however,  the  polytheism  would  be  simple, 
and  the  subordinate  deities  composing  the  pantheon  would  be  con- 
sidered as  the  ministers  of  the  one  supreme  deity.  Such  may  have 
been  the  state  of  things  when  the  different  branches  of  the  Aryans 
separated.  The  polytheistic  idea,  however,  when  once  it  had  begun  to 
work,  would  tend  constantly  to  multiply  the  number  of  divinities,  as 
we  see  it  has  already  done  in  the  Vedic  'age.  So  great,  however,  is 
the  power  exercised  over  the  human  mind  by  the  principle  of  unity, 
that  the  idea  of  one  Supreme  Being,  though  obscured,  is  never  lost,  but 
is  always  breaking  forth  like  a  light  from  the  clouds  in  which  it  is 
enveloped.  The  traces  of  monotheism  which  are  found  in  the  Big- 
veda  may,  perhaps,  M.  Pictet  thinks,  be  reminiscences  of  the  more 
ancient  religion  described  above,  though  the  pantheistic  ideas  observ- 
able, whether  in  the  myths  or  in  the  speculations  of  the  same  hymn- 
collection,  are  the  results  of  a  new  tendency  peculiar  to  the  Indian 
intellect.  "While,  however,  the  Indians  thus  eventually  fell  into  pan- 
theism, the  Iranians  had,  at  an  earlier  period,  embraced  a  reformed 
system,  not  dualistic,  as  is  commonly  supposed,  but  monotheistic ;  and 
the  religious  separation  which  then  took  place  between  the  two  tribes 
may  have  had  its  origin  in  a  reaction  of  one  section  of  the  nation 


414  EEMAEKS  ON  M.  PICTET'S  VIEWS. 

against  the  growing  polytheism,  and  a  recurrence  to  the  principles  of 
the  old  monotheism,  of  which  the  remembrance  had  not  heen  altogether 
lost  (pp.  708  ff.). 

I  scarcely  think  that  M.  Pictet's  theory  regarding  the  character  of 
the  primitive  religion  of  the  Aryans  is  borne  out  by  the  arguments 
which  he  adduces  in  its  support. 

1.  It  may  be  quite  true  that  the  complicated  polytheism  which  we 
find  in  the  hymns  of  the  Rig-veda,  or  even  the  narrower  system  which 
we  may  suppose  to  have  existed  at  the  separation  of  the  Indian  and 
Iranian  tribes,  could  only  have  been  the  slowly-developed  product  of 
many  centuries ;  but  this  does  not  prove  that  a  simpler  form  of  nature- 
worship,  embracing  a  plurality  of  gods,  might  not  have  existed  among 
the  ancestors  of  these  tribes  from  the  beginning  of  their  history.    I  can 
see  no  reason  for  the  conclusion  that  monotheism  must  necessarily  have 
been  the  starting-point  of  the  system. 

2.  Again,  the  fact  that  the  great  objects  of  external  nature,  the  sky, 
the  earth,  the  sun,  were  designated,  in  the  oldest  Aryan  language  by 
names  descriptive  merely  of  their  physical  characteristics,  supposing  it 
to  be  admitted,  would  not  suffice  to  establish  M.  Pictet's  inference  that 
no  divine  character  was  attributed  to  those  objects  at  the  time  when 
they  were  named.     Though  we  suppose  that  the  sky  (dyu   or   div) 
derived  its  appellation  from  its  luminous  appearance,  the  earth  (prithivl 
or  mahl)  from,  its  breadth  or  vastness,  and  the  sun  (surya  or  savitri)  from 
its  brightness  (Pictet,  ii.  667')  and  fecundating  power,  it  does  not  follow 
that,  though  familiarly  called  by  these  names,  they  were  not  at  the  same 
time  regarded  as  living  powers,  invested  with  divine  attributes.     How 
strong  soever  may  have  been  the  religious  feelings  of  the  ^primitive 
Aryans,  however  lively  their  sense  of  the  supernatural,  and  however 
forcibly  we  may  therefore  imagine  them  to  have  been  impelled  to  deify 
the  grand  natural  objects  by  which  they  were  surrounded  and  over- 
awed, it  is  obvious  that  the  physical  impressions  made  by  those  objects 
on  'their  senses  would  be  yet  nfore  powerful  (in  proportion  as  they  were 
more  frequent  and  more  obtrusive) ;  and  that  consequently  the  sky, 
earth,  sun,  etc.,  even  though  regarded  as  deities,  would  naturally  be 
called  by  names  denoting  their  externals-characteristics,  rather  than  by 
other  appellations  descriptive  of  the  'divine  attributes  they  were  sup- 
posed to  possess. 


PFLEIDERER  ON  PRIMITIVE  FORM  OF  RELIGIOUS  BELIEF.     415 

If  an  etymological  argument  of  this  sort  were  to  be  considered  as 
settling  the  question,  we  might  in  like  manner  insist  that,  because  the 
word  Varuna  means  (or  is  supposed  to  mean)  the  enveloper,  it  must 
therefore  in  the  beginning  have  designated  the  sky  alone  (as  the  corres- 
ponding word  ovpavos  afterwards  "did  in  Greek),  and  could  not  have 
been  the  name  of  a  divinity.-*  But  this  conclusion,  however  it  may 
appear  to  be  confirmed  by  Greek  usage,  receives  no  support  from  the 
most  ancient  Indian  literature,  in  which  the  word  is  never  employed 
for  sky. 

In  such  inquiries,  moreover,  it  is  unsafe  to  build  too  much  on  ety- 
mologies, many  of  which  are  in  themselves  extremely  uncertain. 

I  will  quote  some  remarks  bearing  upon  this  subject  from  Dr.  Otto 
Pfleiderer's  book,  "Die  Eeligion,  ihr  "Wesen  und  ihre  Geschichte," 
ii.  45  ff.  (Leipzig,  1869),  received  while  this  work  was  passing  through 
the  press:  "We  thus  see  that  in  this  original  form  of  piety"  (the 
conception  of  heaven  and  earth  as  the  principal  divinities),  "  there 
already  exist  general  powers,  to  which  the  devout  spirit  is  directed, 
powers  which,  in  consequence  of  their  relative  infinitude,  were  well 
calculated  to  present  and  render  comprehensible,  to  the  childlike  spirit, 
the  idea  of  absolute  infinity.  It  is  on  this  account  that  purely  moral 
emotions  were  possible  in  this  original  form  of  religion,  and  connected 
with  that  divine  worship,  although  we  are  not,  therefore,  in  any  way 
led  to  assume  that  men  had  any  thought  of  a  divine  being  distinguished 
from  heaven  and  earth,  in  the  form,  for  instance,  of  a  creative  god, 
enthroned  in  the  heavens.  From  the  fact  that,  in  our  own  case,  the 
idea  of  a  God  can  be  only  awakened  and  symbolized  by,  but  never  identi- 
fied with,  the  visible  infinity  of  heaven  and  earth,  we  can  draw  no 
conclusion  as  to  the  original  period  of  humanity  :  for  to  the  childlike 
contemplation  of  the  earliest  races,  the  heaven  and  earth  were  not,  what 
they  are  for  us,  for  the  educated  understanding,  a  system  of  finite 
causes  standing  in  a  relation  of  orderly  reciprocal  action  to  each  other  ; 
but  living  beings,  endowed  with  soul,  acting,  after  the  manner  of  nlen, 
with  knowledge  and  will,  to  whom  consequently  men  could  quite 
properly  pray  with  the  firm  belief  that  they  would  be  heard,  and  their 
wishes  granted.  Such  a  primeval  childlike  naif  prajer  we  find  in  the 
Yedas  :  '  Father  Heaven,  gracious  mother  Earth,  brother  Fire,  ye 
shining  ones,  have  compassion  on  us'  (see  above,  p.  22,  note  32). 


416  SCHERER  ON  THE  EARLY  ARYAN  RELIGION. 

The  Athenians  prayed  at  a  still  later  time :  '  Rain,  rain,  0  dear 
Zeus,  down  upon  the  cultivated  lands  and  fields  of  the  Athenians,' 
on  which  Max  Mullet  strikingly  remarks  that  this  prayer  is  clearly 
addressed  to  the  (sensible  atmospheric)  sky,  though  the  mere  addi- 
tion of  'dear'  in  '0  dear  Zeus,'  is^  sufficient  to  change  the  sky  into 
a  personal  being.  The  same  is  the  (?ase  with  a  primeval  Chinese 
prayer :  '  0  blue  Heaven,  look  down  upon  the  proud,  and  have  com- 
passion on  the  wretched.'  The  contents  of  this  prayer  presuppose  a 
spiritual  being,  which,  however,  is  by  the  adjunct  'blue'  easily  iden- 
tified with  the  visible  vault  of  heaven.  Max  Miiller  (Science  of 
Language,  ii.  413  if.)  here  raises  the  question  whether  the  identity  of 
the  word  for  heaven  and  for  god  is  to  be  explained  (1)  by  supposing 
that  the  word  at  first  merely  expressed  the  conception  of  the  sensible 
object  heaven,  and  that  the  appellative  noun  so  fixed  was  transferred 
to  the  idea,  which  ai'ose  afterwards,  of  God,  as  a  being  enthroned  in 
the  highest  heaven,  as  one  of  the  possible  names  of  this  as  yet  name- 
less being;  or  (2)  by  supposing  that  the  conception  of  heaven  and  that 
of  God  existed  separately  from  the  first  in  the  human  consciousness, 
and  were  only  in  consequence  of  their  resemblance  (the  tertium  com- 
parationis :  clearness,  elevation,  infinity)  both  expressed  by  the  same 
word  with  the  signification  of  shining.  In  both  these  modes  of  ex- 
planation the  relation  between  god  and  heaven  appears  to  be  considered 
in  a  fashion  too  external,  and  too  much  resulting  from  reflection.  We 
must  therefore  rather  conceive  it  thus :  Called  into  being  by  the  sen- 
suous impression  of  the  shining,  lofty,  boundless  heaven,  the  sense  of 
the  Divine  Being  was  stirred  into  activity  in  the  human  spirit,  and 
whilst  the  imagination,  which  moulded  speech,  expressed  that  sensuous 
impression  by  the  word  heaven,  it  at  the  same  time  and  in  the  same 
indivisible  act  expressed  the  devout  movement  of  the  spirit  by  the 
same  word,  as  the  name  of  the  (highest)  god.  The  distinction  which 
we  now  make  between  these  two  things,  and  which  is  the  main  cause 
of  the  difficulty  we  experience  in  understanding  mythology,  had  not 
begun  to  be  made  by  the  imagination  of  the  earliest  men,  who,  when 
they  pronounced  the  word  'heaven,'  applied  it  in  thought  to  a  living, 
animated,  and  active  being, ,,and  when  Jhey  uttered  the  word  'God,' 
applied  it  to  the  visible,  clear,  blue  heaven." 

On  the  subject  before  us  I  will  also  quote  some  remarks  by  two 


OPINIONS  OF  SCHEKER  AND  RE'VILLE  ON  THE  QUESTION.     417 

recent  French  writers.  The  first  of  these  is  M.  Edmond  Scherer,  an 
acute  theologian  and  accomplished  critic,  who,  in  a  review  of  M. 
Pictet's  work,  thus  expresses  himself: — 

"  M.  Pictet  distinguishes  in  the  religion  of  the  Aryans  two  elements, 
contrary  in  appearance,  (1)  a  monotheism  pure  and  elevated,  which 
conceives  the  Deity  as  a  bein£  distinct  from  the  world ;  (2)  a  poly- 
theism resulting  from  the  personification  of  natural  objects,  and  which, 
by  attributing  life  to  these  objects,  creates  an  entire  mythology.  This 
apparent  contradiction  M.  Pictet  explains  by  a  development.  He 
thinks  the  human  mind  must  have  proceeded  from  the  simple  to  the 
complex,  from  unity  to  diversity ;  that  polytheism  has  arisen  from  the 
need  of  seeking  other  beings  intermediate  between  the  Supreme  Being 
and  man,  and  that  it  has  thus  been  able  to  establish  itself  without 
destroying  altogether  the  first  or  monotheistic  idea.  "We  are  thus 
brought  back  to  the  problem  with  which  M.  Renan  has  dealt  in  his 
studies  on  the  Semitic  races,  although  with  this  difference,  that  M. 
Eenan  opposed  the  Semitic,  as  the^  genius  of  monotheism,  to  the  Arya, 
as  the  genius  of  polytheism.  Perhaps  in  both  cases  the  difficulty 
arises  from  regarding  as  absolute  an  opposition  which  is  merely 
relative.  There  never  has  been,  and  doubtless  there  never  will  be, 
either  a  pure  polytheism  or  a  pure  monotheism.  Thus  religions  can 
only  be  defined  or  characterised  by  the  predominance  of  the  one  of  the 
two  elements  over  the  other;  and  their  history  consists  less  in  suc- 
cessive phases,  in  their  passing  from  one  form  to  the  other,  than  in  the 
coexistence  and  the  struggle  of  two  principles  answering  to  two  re- 
quirements of  the  human  soul  which  are  equally  imperious." — (Me- 
langes d'Histoire  Religieuse,  pp.  35  f.) 

On  the  same  subject  another  distinguished  theologian  of  the  critical 
school,  M.  Albert  Seville,  writes  as  follows  in  the  "  Kevue  des  Deux 
Mondes"  (Feb.,  1864,  p.  721  f.)  :— 

"  If  we  had*before  us  positive  facts  attesting  that  the  march  of  the 
human  mind  has  been  such  (as  M.  Pictet  describes),  we  should  only 
have  to  surrender,  and  admit,  contrary  to  alj  probability  d  priori,  that 
man,  while  still  sunk  in  the  most  profound  ignorance,  was  better  able 
to  grasp  religious  truths  than  ^he  was  at  $ie  epoch  when  he  began  to 
reflect  and  to  know.  But  have  these  facts  any  existence  ?  So  long  as 
none  can  be  alleged  which  have  a  demonstrative  force,  ought  we  not  to 

27 


418  VIEWS  OF  PROFESSOR  ROTH 

hold  to  the  hypothesis,  confirmed  by  so  many  analogies,  of  a  gradual 
elevation  of  religion  (as  of  all  the  other  spheres  in  which  the  human 
mind  moves),  from  the  simplest  elements  to  the  most  sublime  concep- 
tions?" Again:  "It  is  evident,  and  fully  admitted  by  M.  Pictet, 
that  our  ancestors  were  polytheists  .before  their  separation ;  but  at  that 
period  this  polytheism  was  not  of  yesierday.  It  had  already  had  a 
history ;  and  it  is  a  matter  of  course  that,  in  the  historical  development 
of  a  polytheistic  religion,  there  must  have  been,  as  it  were,  guesses, 
germs,  presentiments  of  monotheism.  From  the  moment  when  a 
plurality  of  divine  beings  is  recognised,  a  community  of  divine  nature 
between  them  all  is  also  admitted.  In  this  way  arise  such  epithets  as 
*  luminous,'  'adorable,'  'living,'  'mighty,'  which  in  course  of  time 
become  substantives,  like  our  word  '  Dieu '  itself.  The  sky,  per- 
sonified, and  become  an  object  of  adoration,  speedily  usurps  the  charac- 
teristics of  a  supreme  Deity,  elevated  above  all  others,  and  master  of 
an  irresistible  weapon,  the  thunderbolt.  Thus  in  most  mythologies 
the  sky  is  what  it  is  in  that  of  the  Greeks,  the  Jupiter,  the  sovereign 
father  of  gods  and  men.  In  short,  it  is  clear  that  the  human  mind,  in 
proportion  as  it  observes  and  reflects,  rises  more  and  more  towards 
monotheism,  in  obedience  to  that  imperious  law,  hidden  in  the  depths 
of  its  being,  which  leads  it  to  the  logical  pursuit  of  unity.  But  this 
movement  is  very  slow,  greatly  retarded  by  the  force  of  tradition  and 
habit,  and  we  ought  not  to  place  at  the  beginning  that  which  can  only 
be  found  at  the  very  end  of  the  process." 

I  shall  conclude  with  an  extract  from  Professor  R.  Roth's  Essay  on 
the  "  Highest  gods  of  the  Aryan  races,"  (Journal  of  the  German 
Oriental  Society,  vi.  76f.),  in  which  that  able  writer,  while  holding 
that  the  religion  of  those  tribes  in  its  earlier  stages  contained  a  more 
spiritual  element,  which  was  eventually  preserved  in  a  modified  form 
by  the  Zoroastrian  creed,  recognizes,  as  also  embraced  in  that  elder 
religion,  a  system  of  nature- worship  which  afterwards  became  the  most 
prominent  element  in  the  Indian  mythology.  "We  must,  therefore, 
regard  Roth  also  as  opgosed  to  M.  Pictet's  theory  of  a  primitive 
monotheism.  The  greater  part  of  this  passage  has  been  already  given 
in  a  former  section,  pp.  1 17  f. ;  but  it  is  advisable  that  the  larger  portion 
of  it  should  be  repeated  here,  with,  the  addition  of  the  introductory 
paragraph,  from  the  bearing  of  the  whole  upon  the  present  discussion. 


ON  THE  PRIMITIVE  ARYAN  RELIGION.  419 

"  But  that  which  still  further  enhances  the  interest  of  this  inquiry, 
and  is  of  especial  importance  in  reference  to  the  primitive  period,  is 
the  peculiar  character  attaching  to  the  conception  of  the  Adityas. 
The  names  of  these  deities  (with  a  certain  reservation  in  regard  to  that 
of  Varuna)  embrace  no  ideas  drawn  from  physical  nature,  but  express 
certain  relations  of  moral  ancf  social  life.  Mitra,  '  the  friend,'  Arya- 
man,  Bhaga,  Ansa,  the  gods  wko  'favour,'  'bless/  'sympathize,'  and 
Daksha,  '  the  intelligent,'  are  pure  spirits,  in  whom  the  noblest  rela- 
tions of  human  intercourse  are  mirrored,  and  so  appear  (i.e.  the  rela- 
tions appear)  as  emanations  of  the  divine  life,  and  as  objects  of 
immediate  divine  protection.  But  if  the  earliest  Aryan  antiquity  thus 
beheld  in  its  highest  gods,  not  the  most  prominent  manifestations  of 
physical  nature,  but  the  conditions  of  moral  life  and  society,  and  con- 
sequently esteemed  these  moral  blessings  more  highly  than  anything 
connected  with  the  wants  and  enjoyments  of  sense,  we  must  ascribe  to 
that  age  a  high  spiritual  capacity,  whatever  may  have  been  its  defi- 
ciency in  the  constituents  of  external  civilization. 

"  These  considerations  throw  some  light  on  the  principles  and 
character  of  the  two  Aryan  religions  which  have  sprung  from  one  and 
the  same  source.  The  religion  of  Ormuzd  holds  fast,  while  it  shapes, 
after  its  own  peculiar  fashion,  the  supersensuous  element  called  into 
existence  by  the  higher  order  of  gods  belonging  to  the  common  ancient 
creed,  and  eventually  rejects  almost  entirely  the  deities  representing 
the  powers  of  nature,  which,  as  well  as  those  of  the  former  class,  it 
had  inherited  from  the  earliest  period.  The  Vedic  creed,  on  the  other 
hand,  is  preparing  to  concede  the  highest  rank  to  the  latter  class  (the 
representatives  of  the  powers  of  nature),  to  transfer  to  them  an  ever 
increasing  honour  and  dignity,  to  draw  down  the  divine  life  into 
nature,  and  bring  it  ever  closer  to  man.  The  proof  of  this  is  especially 
to  be  found  in  the  myth  regarding  Indra,  a  god  who,  in  the  earlier 
period  of  Ary*an  religious  history,  either  had  no  existence,  or  was 
confined  to  an  obscure  province.  The  Zend  legend  attributes*  to 
another  deity  the  function  which  forms  thg  essence  of  the  later  myth 
regarding  Indra.  This  god  Trita,  however,  disappears  from  the  Indian 
mythology  in  the  course  o*  the  Vedic  a»e,  and  Indra  succeeds  him. 
And  not  only  so,  but  towards  the  end  of  this  period  Indra  begins  to 
push  aside  even  Varuna  himself,  the  highest  god  of  the  ancient  creed, 


420  fcOTH  ON  THE  PRIMITIVE  AEYAN  RELIGION. 

from  the  position  which  is  shown,  partly  by  historical  testimonies,  and 
partly  by  the  very  conception  of  his  character,  to  belong  to  him,  and 
becomes,  if  not  the  supreme  god,  at  least  the  national  god,  whom  his 
encomiasts  strive  to  elevate  above  the  ancient  Yaruna."  ....  "Thus 
the  course  of  the  movement  is,  that  an  ancient  supreme  deity,  originally 
common  to  the  Aryans  (i.e.  the  ancestors^  of  the  Persians  and  Indians), 
and  perhaps  also  to  the  entire  Indo-G-ermanie  race,(  Yaruna-Ormuzd- 
Uranos,  is  thrown  back  into  the  darkness,  and  in  his  room  Indra,  a 
peculiarly  Indian,  and  a  national  god,  is  introduced.  With  Yaruna 
disappears  at  the  same  time  the  old  character  of  the  people,  while  with 
Indra  a  new  character,  foreign  to  the  primitive  Indo-Germanic  nature, 
is  in  an  equal  measure  brought  in.  Yiewed  in  its  internal  essence, 
this  modification  in  the  religious  conceptions  of  the  Aryans  consists  in 
an  ever-increasing  tendency  to  attenuate  the  supersensuous,  mysterious 
side  of  their  creed,  till  at  length  the  gods  who  were  originally  the 
highest  and  the  most  spiritual  have  become  unmeaning  representatives 
of  nature,  and  Yaruna  is  nothing  more  than  the  ruler  of  the  sea,  while 
the  Adityas  are  the  mere  regents  of  the  sun's  course. 

"  When  the  higher  and  more  spiritual  elements  in  the  Indian  creed 
had  thus  become  so  greatly  reduced,  it  was  inevitable  that  a  reaction 
should  ensue,"  etc. 

Although,  towards  the  close  of  the  preceding  passage,  Professor 
Roth  speaks  of  an  "  ancient  supreme  deity"  (em  alter  ....  oberster 
Gott}  as  "  originally  common  to  the  Aryans,"  it  is  evident  from  the 
entire  context  that  he  does  not  regard  this  deity  as  their  only  object 
of  adoration,  since  he  recognizes  the  existence  of  a  plurality  of  gods. 
In  the  previous  part  of  his  dissertation,  too,  Roth  speaks  (p.  70)  of 
the  close  relation  in  the  Yedic  era  between  Yaruna  and  another  god, 
Mitra, — a  relation  which  he  holds  to  have  subsisted  from  an  earlier 
period.  And  at  p.  74,  he  refers  to  the  activity  and  dignity  of  Yaruna 
being  shared  by  the  other  Adityas,  though  no  separate  provinces  can 
be  assigned  to  them,  while  he  ?s  the  first  of  the  number,  and  represents 
in  himself  the  powers  of  the  whole  class.  If  this  description  apply  to 
the  ancient  Aryan  religion,  it  cannot  be  properly  said  to  have  been 
monotheistic,  though  one  deity  may  ha,ve  "been  more  prominent  than 
the  rest. 


421 


SECTIO'N  XXII. 

MISCELLANEOUS  HYMNS  FROM  THE  BIG-  AND  ATHARVA-VEDAS.»« 

The  hymns  of  the  Rig-veda  are,  as  is  well  known,  almost  entirely  of 
a  religious  character,  designed,  or  at  least,  adapted,  for  recitation  at 
the  worship  of  the  various  popular  deities,  or  at  some  of  the  cere- 
monials connected  with  various  important  events  in  the  domestic  or 
public  life  of  the  ancient  Indians.  Among  these,  however,  are  inter- 
spersed a  few  of  a  different  description,  which,  from  the  wide  celebrity 
they  had  acquired,  were  carefully  preserved  by  the  descendants  of 
their  authors,  or  by  other  interested  persons,  and  have  been  incor- 
porated in  the  great  collection  of  sacred  songs.  Some  of  these  pro- 
ductions, like  the  colloquy  of  Tama  and  Yam!  (translated  above  in  pp. 
282  ff.),  the  very  obscure  conversation  between  the  hero  Pururavas  and 
the  Apsaras  Urvas*!  (E.Y.  x.  95),697  and  the  Yrishakapi  hymn  (R.Y.  x. 
86),  derived  their  importance  from  the  interlocutors  being  personages 
regarded  as  divine,  or  ranked  among  the  ancestors  of  the  human  race. 
Others,  like  the  72nd,  the  90th,  and  the  129th  hymns  of  the  10th 
Book  (also  quoted  above  in  pp.  48  f.,  36*7  ff.,  and  356  f.)  were  vene- 
rated from  the  nature  of  the  topics  which  they  handled,  or  the  depth  or 
gravity  of  the  speculations  which  they  contain.  Others,  again,  such 
as  the  hymns  referred  to  by  Professor  Roth,  in  his  dissertation  "on 
the  historical  matter  contained  in  the  Rig-veda,"598  would  possess  an 

696  I  have  again  to  acknowledge  the  valuable  aid  which  I  have  received  from  Pro- 
fessor Aufrecht  i&  rendering  some  of  the  more  difficult  parts  of  the  hymns  translated 
in  this  section. 

697  Professor  Max  Miner's  Essay  on  Comparative  Mythology,  in  the   Olford 
Essays  for  1856,  reprinted  in  his  "  Chips  from  a  German  Workshop,"  vol.  ii.,  contains 
a  translation  of  this  myth,  as  narrated  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana.    The  Brahmana, 
however,  only  quotes  and  illustrates  the  easiest  verses  of  the  hymn  (R.V.  x.  95), 
making  no  reference  to  its  most  obscure  and  difficult  portions^     Some  of  the  verses 
not  cited  in  the  Brahmana  are  explained  by  Professor  Miiller.     See  also  Roth's 
Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  pp.  153  ff.  and  230. 

898  Sur  Litteratur  und  Geschichte  des  Weda,  p.  87. 


422  HYMN  TO  AEANYANI,  R.V.  x.  146. 

interest  for  the  descendants  of  the  contending  priestly  races  to  whose 
rivalries  they  made  allusion,  and  might  even  be  valued  for  the  pur- 
poses of  imprecation  to  which  they  could  be  applied.599  And  those 
compositions  which  celebrate  the  liberality  of  different  princes  to  their 
domestic  priests  would  naturally  bte  handed  down  with  care  by  the 
successors  of  those  favoured  individuals. 

In  the  following  Section  I  shall  adduce  some  other  hymns,  both  from 
the  Rig-  and  the  Atharva-vedas,  which  are  only  in  part  of  a  religious 
character,  and  possess  a  greater  general  interest  than  the  bulk  of  those 
with  which  they  are  associated,  from  the  references  which  they  make 
to  human  character,  dispositions,  feelings,  passions,  and  circumstances  ; 
from  the  light  which  they  throw  on  the  progress  of  sacerdotal  preten- 
sions, or  from  some  other  feature  of  their  contents.  In  some  of  these 
hymns  it  will  be  seen  that  a  considerable  amount  of  shrewdness  and 
worldly  wisdom  is  expressed  in  a  sententious  form. 

(1)  Hymn  to  Arany'dni,  R.V.  x.  146. 

The  first  hymn  which  I  shall  adduce,  addressed  to  the  goddess  of 
forest  solitude,  is  distinguished  by  the  poetical  feeling  which  pervades 
it,  and  the  natural  manner  in  which  the  emotions  arising  from  the 
situation  there  described  are  depicted,  though  some  of  the  allusions 
which  it  contains  are  difficult  to  explain  or  comprehend.  It  is  re- 
peated in  the  Taittiriya  Brahmana,  ii.  5,  5,  6  f.,  and  interpreted  by  the 
Commentator  on  that  work.  (See  also  Roth's  Illustrations  of  the 
Nirukta,  p.  132). 

1.  AranydniAranydni  asau  yd  preva  nasyasi  \  kathd  grdmam  r:a  gachh- 
asi  na  tvd  bhlr  iva  vindati  \  2.  Vrishdravdya  vadate  yad  updvati  chich- 
chikah  |  dghdtibhir  iva  dhdvayann  Aranydnir  mahlyate  \  3.  Uta  gdvah 
ivddanti  uta  vesmeva  drisyate  \  uto  Aranydnih  sdyam  sakatlr  iva  sarjati  \ 
4.  Gdm  angaisha  d  hvayati  ddrv  angaisho  apdvadhlt  \  vasann  Aranyd- 
nydm  sdyam  akrukshad  iti  manyate  \  5.  Na  vat  Aranydnir  hanti  anyas 
chen  ndbhigachhati  \  svddoh  phalasya  jagdhvdya  yathdkdmam  nipadyate  \ 
6.  Anjanagandhdm  surabhim  bahvanndm  akrishlvaldm  \  prdham  mrigd- 
ndm  mdtaram  AraAydnim  asamsisham  \ 

699  See  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  327  and  143. 


HYMN  TO  AKANYANl,  E.V.  x.  146.  423 

1.  "Aranyani,  Aranyani,  thou  who  seemest  to  lose  thyself  there, 
why  dost  thou  not  ask  [the  way  to]  the  village  ?  Does  not  terror 
seize  thee  (at  thy  solitude)  ?  2.  "When  the  chichchika  (a  hird)  answers 
to  the  roar  of  hulls  when  it  is  uttered,  flying  about  as  if  with  cymbals, 
then  Aranyam  rejoices.  3.  And  the  cows  seem  to  eat,  and  the  house 
appears  to  be  seen,  and  at  evening  Aranyam  seems  to  discharge  the 
carts.  4.  One  man  calls  to  llis  cow,  another  fells  a  tree  ;  a  man 
dwelling  in  the  forest  (in  Aranyani)  fancies  that  she  [or  some  one] 
has  screamed.  5.  Aranyani  is  not  [herself]  murderous,  if  no  one 
else  (a  tiger,  etc.)  assails  ;  but,  after  eating  of  sweet  fruit,  a  man 
rests  there  at  his  pleasure.  6.  I  laud  Aranyani,  the  mother  of  wild 
beasts,  the  unctuous-scented,  the  fragrant,  who  yields  abundance  of 
food,  though  she  has  no  hinds  to  till  her." 

The  following  is  a  free  metrical  version  of  the  first,  fifth,  and  sixth 

verses  of  this  hymn : — 

» 

1.  Thou  seemest,  goddess,  here  to  stray 

Forlorn  among  these  trackless  woods, 

These  dark  and  dreary  solitudes. 
"Why  dost  thou  not  inquire  the  way 
That  leads  to  cheerful  human  haunts  ? 
Is  there  nought  here  thy  courage  daunts  ? 

5.  Herself  this  goddess  does  not  slay, 

Although  she  nurtures  murderous  beasts  : 
On  luscious  fruits  the  traveller  feasts, 

Supplied  by  her,  and  goes  his  way. 

i 

• 

6.  Rich-scented,  fragrant,  full  of  flowers, 

Her  realm  with  various  food  is  filled ; 

For  though  by  hinds  she  is  not  tilled, 

She  drinks  in  sap  from  heavenly  showers. 

* 
The  next  hymn  which  I  shall  quote  refers  to  the  great  variety  by 

which  the  aims  and  pursuits  of  different  men  are  characterized.     It  is 

•  »  * 

distinguished  by  a  vein   of  aa'if    observation,  not  unmingled   with 
satire ;  and  is  curious  as  disclosing  to  us  the  occupations  pursued  by  the 


424     RIG-VEDA,  xx.  112,  ON  THE  VARIETY  OF  MEN'S  PURSUITS. 

poet's  father  and  mother,  though  it  makes  no  reference  to  the  class  to 
which  they  belonged. 

(2)  Rig-veda,  ix.  112. 

1.  Nandndm  vai  u  no  dhiyo  vi  vratdni  jandndm  \  tahhd  rishtam 
rutam  bhishag  brahmd  sunvantam  ichhali  Indrdya  Jndo  parisrava  \  2. 
Jaratlbhir  oshadhlbhir  parnebhih  sakundndm  \  Icdrmdro  asmabhir  dyubhir 
hiranyavantam  ichhati — |  3.  Kdrur  ahaih  tato  bhishag  upalaprakshinl 
nana  \  ndnddhiyo  vasuyavo  anu  gdh  iva  tasthima — |  4.  Asvo  volhd 
sukham  ratham  hasandm  wpamantrinah  \  sepo  romanvantau  bhedau  vdr 
in  mandukah  ichhati — | 

"1.  We  different  men  have  all  our  various  imaginations  and  designs. 
The  carpenter  seeks  something  that  is  broken,  the  doctor  a  patient,  the 
priest  some  one  who  will  offer  libations.  0  Indu  (Soma),  flow  forth  for 
Indra.600  2.  With  dried-up  sticks,  with  birds'  feathers,  with  metals,  and 
fire  [?]  the  artizan  continually  seeks  ftfter  a  man  with  plenty  of  gold. 
0  Indu,  etc.,  etc.  3.  (=Mrukta,  vi.  6)  I  am  a  poet,  my  father  is  a 
doctor,  and  my  mother  is  a  grinder  of  corn.  "With  our  different  views, 
seeking  to  get  gain,  we  run  after  [our  respective  objects]  as  after 
cattle.601  0  Indu,  etc.  4.  The  draught  horse  desires  an  easy-going 
carriage ;  merry  companions  a  laugh ;  the  female  sex  the  male  j  and 
frogs  a  pond.  0  Indu,"  etc. 

I  add  a  free  metrical  rendering  of  these  verses : — 

Men's  tastes  and  trades  are  multifarious, 

And  so  their  ends  and  aims  are  various. 

f, 
T&e  smith  seeks  something  cracked  to  mend ; 

The  leech  would  fain  have  sick  to  tend. 

The  priest  desires  a  devotee, 

From  whom  he  may  extract  his  fee. 


6CO  This  last  clause,  which  is  repeated  at  the  end  of  each  of  the  verses,  and  trans- 
forms the  hymn  into  an  address  to  Soma,  is  perhaps  a  later  addition  to  an  older  song ; 
as  it  seems  to  have  no  connection  .with  the  other  parjts  of  the  verses  to  which  it  is 
attached.  r  ,.  < 

601  The  three  preceding  verses  are  translated'  by  Roth,  in  his  Illustrations  of  the 
Nirukta,  p.  74. 


RIG-VEDA,  x.  34,  ON  THE  MISERIES  OF  GAMBLING.         425 

Each  craftsman  makes  and  vends  his  ware, 
And  hopes  the  rich  man's  gold  to  share. 
My  sire 's  a  leech ;  and  I  a  bard ; 
Corn  grinds  my  mother,  toiling  hard. 
All  craving  wealth/  we  each  pursue, 
By  different  mfians,  the  end  in  view, 
L^ke  people  runiing  after  cows, 
"Which  too  far  off  have  strayed  to  hrowse. 
The  draught-horse  seeks  an  easy  yoke, 
The  merry  dearly  like  a  joke, 
Of  lovers  youthful  belles  are  fond, 
And  thirsty  frogs  desire  a  pond. 

(3)  Rig-veda,  x.  34. 

The  next  hymn,  which  may'possibly  be  the  production  of  one  who 
lays  before  us  the  sad  results  of  his  own  bitter  experience,  describes 
with  great  vividness,  graphic  power,  and  truth  of  observation,  the 
seductions  and  miseries  of  gambling,  which  we  see  were  as  acutely  felt 
by  their  victims  in  those  early  ages  as  they  are  in  these  later  times. 

1  (=Nirukta,  ix.  8).  Prdvepdh  ma  brihato  mddayanti  pravdtejdh 
irine  varvritdndh  \  somasya  iva  Maujavatasya  bhaksho  vibhldako  jdgrivir 
mahyatn  achhdn  \  2.  Na  md  mimetha  najihlle  eshd  Siva  sakhibhyah  uta 
mahyam  dslt  \  aJcshasya  aham  ekaparasya'  hetor  anuvratdm  apa  jdydm 
arodham  \  3.  Dveshti  svafrur  apa  jdyd  runaddhi  na  ndthito  vindate 
marditdram  \  a^vasya  iva  jarato  vasnyasya  ndham  vinddmi  kitavasya 
bhogam  \  4.  Anye  jdydm  pari  mrisanti  asya  yasya  agridhad  vedane  vdjl 
akshah  \  pitd  mdtd  bhrdtarah  enam  dhur  na  jdnlmo  nayata  baddham 
etam  \  5.  Yad  ddidhye  na  davishdni  ebhih  pardyadbhyo  ava  hlye  sakhi- 
bhyah  \  nyuptds  cha  babhravo  vdcham  akrata  emi  id  eshdm  nishkritam 
jdrinl  iva  \  6.  Sabhdm  eti  kitavah  prichhamdno  jeshydmi  iti  tanvd 
Susujdnah  \  akshdso  jtsya  vi  tiranti  kdmam  pratidlvne  dadhatdli  d 
kritdni  \  7.  Akshdsah  id  ankusino  nitodint\  nikritvdnas  tapands  tdpa- 
yishnavah  \  kumdradesJmdh  jayatah  punarhano  madhvd  sampriktdh  kita- 
vasya  barhand  \  8.  Tripanchdtyh  krilati  tyrdtah  eshajn  devah  iva  savitd 
satyadharmd  \  ugrasya  chid  manyave  na  namante  raja  chid  ebhyo  namah 
it  Icrinoti  \  9.  Nlchd  vartante  upari  sphuranti  ahastdso  hastavantam 


426         RIG-VEDA,  x.  34,  ON  THE  MISERIES  OF  GAMBLING. 

sahante  \  divydh  angdrdh  irine  nyuptdh  iltdh  santo  hridayam  nir 
dahanti  \  10.  Jdyd  tapyate  Tcitavasya  hind  mdtd  putrasya  charatah  leva 
svit  |  rindvd  bibhyad  dhanam  ichhamdno  anyeshdm  astam  upa  naktam,  eti  \ 
11.  Striyam  drishtvdya  kitavam  tatdpa  anyeshdm  jdydm  sulcritam  cha 
yonim  \  purvdhne  asvdn  yuyuje  hi  babhrun  so  agner  ante  vrishalah  pa- 
pdda  |  12.  To  vah  senanir  mahato  ganasya  rdjd  vrdtasya  prathamo 
babhuva  \  tasmai  krinomi  na  dhand  runadhmi  daiaham  jwdchls  tad  ritafh 
vaddmi  \  13.  Akshair  md  divyah  krishim  it  krishasva  vitte  ramasva  bahu 
manyamdnah  \  tatra  gdvah  kitava  tava  jdyd  tad  me  vi  chashfe  Savitd 
'yam  aryah  \  14.  Mitram  Ttrinudhvam  Tchalu  mrilata  no  md  no  gTwrena 
charatdbhi  dhrishnu  \  ni  vo  nu  manyur  vtiatdm  ardtir  anyo  babhrundm 
prasitau  nu  astu  \ 

"  1.  The  tumbling,  air-born  [products]  of  the  great  Yibhidaka  tree 
(i.e.  the  dice)  delight  me  as  they  continue  to  roll  on  the  dice-board. 
The  exciting  dice  seem  to  me  like  a  draught  of  the  soma-plant  growing 
on  mount  Mujavat.  2.  She  (the  gamester's  own  wife)  never  quarrelled 
with  or  despised  me.  She  was  kind  to  me,  and  to  my  friends.  But  I, 
for  the  sake  of  the  partial  dice,  have  spurned  my  devoted  spouse.  3. 
My  mother-in-law  detests  me ;  my  wife  rejects  me.  In  his  need  [the 
gamester]  finds  no  comforter.  I  cannot  discover  what  is  the  enjoy- 
ment of  the  gambler  any  more  than  I  can  perceive  what  is  the  happi- 
ness of  a  worn-out  hack  horse.  4.  Others  pay  court  to  the  wife  of  the 
man  whose  wealth  is  coveted  by  the  impetuous  dice.  His  father, 
mother,  brothers,  cry  out,  *  "We  know  nothing  of  him  ;  take  him 
away  bound.'  5.  When  I  resolve  not  to  be  tormented  by  them, 
because  I  am  abandoned  by  my  friends  who  withdraw  from  me, — yet 
as  soon  as  the  brown  dice,  when  they  are  thrown,  make  af  rattling 
sound,  I  hasten  to  their  rendezvous,  like  a  woman  to  her  paramour.602 
6.  The  gamester  comes  to  the  assembly,  glowing  in  body,  and  asking 
himself,  'shall  I  win  ?'  The  dice  inflame  his  desire,  by  making  over  his 
winnings  to  his  opponent.  7.  Hooking,  piercing,  deceitful,  vexatious, 
delighting  to  torment,  the  dice  'dispense  transient  gifts,  and  again  ruin 
the  winner ;  they  appear  to  the  gambler  covered  with  honey.  8. 
Their  troop  of  fifty-three  disports  itself  [disposing  men's  destinies] 
like  the  god  Savitri.,  whose  ordinances  nerer  fail.  They  bow  not  before 

602  These  words  are  quoted  in  Nirukta,  xii.  7. 


METEICAL  YERSION  OF  RIG-VEDA,  x.  34.  427 

the  wrath  even  of  the  fiercest.  The  king  himself  makes  obeisance  to 
them.  9.  They  roll  downward;  they  bound  upward.  Having  no 
hands,  they  overcome  him  who  has.  These  celestial  coals,  when 
thrown  on  the  diceboard,  scorch  the  heart,  though  cold  themselves. 
10.  The  destitute  wife  of  the  ga'mester  is  distressed,  and  so  too  is  the 
mother  of  a  son  who  goes  she  knows  not  whither.  In  debt  and 
seeking  after  money,  the  gambler  approaches  with  trepidation  the 
houses  of  other  people  at  night.  11.  It  vexes  the  gamester  to  see  his 
own  wife,  and  then  to  observe  the  wives  and  happy  homes  of  others. 
In  the  morning  he  yokes  the  brown  horses  (the  dice) ;  by  the  time 
when  the  fire  goes  out  he  has  sunk  into  a  degraded  wretch.  12.  He 
who  is  the  general  of  your  band,  the  first  king  of  your  troop, — to  him 
I  stretch  forth  [my]  ten  [fingers]  toward  the  east  [in  reverence]  : 603  I 
do  not  reject  wealth,  but  I  declare  that  which  is  right  (when  I  say) : 
13.  Never  play  with  dice:  practice  husbandry;  rejoice  in  thy  pro- 
perty, esteeming  it  sufficient.  *  There,  o  gamester,  are  thy  cows  ; 
[this  is]  thy  wife;' — so  the  adorable  Savitri  addresses  me.  14.  Be 
friendly  [o  dice] ;  be  auspicious  to  us ;  do  not  bewitch  us  powerfully 
with  your  enchantment.  Let  your  wrath  and  hostility  abate.  Let 
others  be  subject  to  the  fetters  of  the  brown  ones  (the  dice)." 

The  following  is  an  attempt  freely  to  reproduce,  in  verse,  the  spirit 
of  this  composition : —  » 

These  dice  that  roll  upon  the  board, 

To  me  intense  delight  afford. 

Sweet  Soma-juice  has  not  more  power 

To  lure  me  in  an  evil  hour. 

To  strife  and  wrangling  disinclined, 

My  gentle  wife  was  always  kind  : 

But  I,  absorbed  in  maddening  play, 

Have  chased  this  tender  spouse  away. 

She  now,  in  turn,  my  person  spurns ;  •» 

Her  mother's  wrath  against,me  burns  : 

Distressed  and  vexed,  in  vain  I  plead, 

For  none  will  Jielp  me  in  my  need.   ^ 

603  Compare  A.V.  v.  28,  11,  and  Vaj.  Sanh.  xvi.  64. 


428  METRICAL  VERSION  OF  RIG- VEDA,  x.  34. 

As  wretched  as  a  worn-out  hack's, 

The  gamester's  life  all  joyance  lacks. 

His  means  by  play  away  are  worn, 

"While  gallants  court  his  wife  forlorn. 

His  father,  mother,  brothers  shout, 

"  The  madman  bind,  and  drag  him  out." 

At  times,  the  scorn  of  evetfy  friend,         « 

I  try  my  foolish  ways  to  mend, 

Resolve  no  more  my  means  to  waste 

On  this  infatuated  taste  : 

But  all  in  vain : — when,  coming  near, 

The  rattle  of  the  dice  I  hear, 

I  rush,  attracted  by  their  charms, 

Like  lady  to  her  lover's  arms. 

As  to  his  game  the  gambler  hies, 

Once  more  his  hopes  of  winning  rise ; 

And  loss  but  more  his  ardour  fires ; 

To  try  his  luck  he  never  tires. 

The  dice  their  victims  hook  and  tear, 

Disturbing,  torturing,  false  though  fair. 

The  transient  gains  they  yield  to-day 

Are  al^to  morrow  swept  away. 

These  sportive  dice,  a  potent  band, 

The  destinies  of  men  command. 

They  laugh  to  scorn  the  fierce  man's  frown ; 

Before  them  doughty  kings  bow  down. 

They  downward  roll,  they  upward  bound, 

And,  handless,  men  with  hands  confound. 

They  scorch  the  heart  like  brands,  these  dice, 

Although  themselves  as  cold  as  ice. 

The  gambler's  hapless  wife  is  sad  ; 

His  mother  mourno  her  wayward  la/l. 

In  want,  at  night  he  seeks  relief 

By  graceless  shifts,  a  trembling  thief. 

He  groans  to  see-  his  wretched  wife, 

And  then  the  happy  wives  and  life 

Of  others,  free  from  care  and  strife. 


QUOTATIONS  FROM  THE  ATHARVA-VEDA  ON  GAMBLING.     429 

His  bad  career,  with  morning  light 

Begun,  in  ruin  ends  by  night. 

To  him,  the  chief  who  leads  your  bands, 

Ye  Dice,  I  lift  my  suppliant  hands ; 

"  I  hail  thy  gifts  when  thou  art  kind, 

But  crave  thy  leave  to  speak  my  mind. 

Forgive  me,  king  of  all  the  dice, 

If  thus  I  give  my  friend  advice  : 

'  Abandon  play,  and  till  the  soil, 

For  this  shall  better  pay  thy  toil. 

Well-pleased  with  what  thou  hast,  forbear 

To  crave  of  wealth  an  ampler  share.'  " 

"  Thy  wife,  thy  kine, — in  these  rejoice," 

Thus  cries  a  god  with  warning  voice. 

Be  gracious,  Dice,  we  now  implore ; 

Bewitch  us  witti  your  spells  no  more. 

From  us  withdraw,  to  us  be  kind, 

And  others  with  your  fetters  bind. 

That  the  passion  for  gambling  prevailed  very  extensively  at  the  time 
when  the  hymns  of  the  Big-  and  Atharva-vedas  were  composed  is  clear 
from  various  other  allusions  to  the  practice  which  we  find  there.  Thus 
in  R.V.  vii.  86,  6,  dice  are  mentioned  along  with^ine,  anger,  thought- 
lessness, etc.,  as  causes  of  sin  (see  above,  p.  66).  The  following  verses 
from  the  Atharva-veda  prove  the  same  point : — 

A.V.  vii.  50,  1.  Yathd  vriksham  asanir  visv&M  Jianti  aprati  \  evdham 
adya  Ititavdn  akshair  badhydsam  aprati  \  2.  Turdndm  aturdndm  vi£dm 
avarjushlndm  \  samaitu  viivato  bhaao  antarhastam  kritam  mama  \ 

"  1.  As  the  lightning  every  day  strikes  the  tree  irresistibly,  so  may 
I  to-day  irresistibly  smite  the  gamesters  with  the  dice.  2.  May  the 
wealth  of  the  rich  and  of  the  poor  unresistingly  be  collected  from  every 
side  into  my  hand  as  winnings." 

vii.  109,  1.  Idam  ygrdya  babhrave  vamo  yo  afoheshu  tanuvasl  \*ghri- 
tena  kaliih  iikshdmi  sa  no  mriddti  Idrise  \  ,2.  Ghritam  Apsardbhyo  vaha 
tvam  Ague  pdmsun  aJcshebhyah  sikatdh  apas  cha  \  yathdbhdgam  havya- 
ddtim  jushdndh  madanti  Hevdh  ubhaydn\  havyd  \  3.  Apsarasah  sadha- 
mddara  madanti  havirdhdnam  cmtard  suryam  cha  \  ttih  me  hastau  sam- 
srijantu  ghritena  sapatnam  me  kitavam  randhayantu  \  4.  Adinavam 


430     QUOTATIONS  FROM  THE  ATHARVA-VEDA  ON  GAMBLING. 

pratidlvne  ghritena  asmdn  abhi  kshara  \  vriksham  ivdsanyd  jahi  yo 
asmdn  pratidlvyati  \ 

"  1.  This  reverence  be  paid  to  tlie  brown  [die],  who  is  ruler  among 
the  dice.  "With  butter  I  worship  the  Kali ;  may  he  thus  be  auspicious 
to  us.  2.  Bring,  o  Agni,  butter  to  tjie  Apsarases,  but  dust,  sand,  and 
water  to  the  dice.  Seeking  oblations  according  to  their  several  shares, 
the  gods  delight  in  both  offerings.  3.  JThe  Apsarases  hold  a  festiva^ 
between  the  oblation  and  the  sun.  May  they  anoint  my  hands  with 
butter,  and  overwhelm  the  gamester  who  is  my  opponent.  4.  Dis- 
pense bad  luck  to  our  adversary,  but  moisten  us  with  butter.  Strike, 
as  lightning  does  a  tree,  the  man  who  plays  against  us." 

vi.  118,  1.  Yad  hastdbhydm  chakrima  kilbishdni  akshdndm  ganam 
upalipsamdndh  \  Vgrampasye  Ugrajitau  tad  adydpsarasdv  anu  dattdm 
rinam  nah  \ 

"1.  "Whatever  sins  we  have  committed  with  our  hands,  seeking  to 
obtain  the  host  of  dice, — remit  to  us  to-day  that  debt,  ye  Apsarases 
Ugrampasya  and  Ugrajit." 

iv.  38,  1.  Udbhindatlrh  sanjayantlm  apsardm  sddhudevinlm  \  glahe 
kritdni  krinvandm  apsardm  turn  iha  huve  \  2.  Vichinvatlm  dkirantlm 
apsardm  sddhudevinlm  \  glahe  kritdni  grihndndm  apsardm — |  3.  Yd 
dyaih  parinrityati  ddaddnd  kritam  glaJuit  \  sa  nah  Jcritani  suhatl 
praham  dpnotu  may  ay  d  \  sd  nah  payasvatl  aitu  md  no  jaishur  idam 
dhanam  \  4.  Ydh  aKsheshu  pramodante  sucham  Tcrodham  cha  bibhrati  \ 
dnandinlm  pramodinlm  apsardm  tarn  iha  huve  \ 

"  1.  I  invoke  hither  the  skilfully-playing  Apsaras  who  cuts  up  and 
conquers,  and  gets  gains  in  the  game  of  dice.  2.  I  invoke  hither  the 
skilfully-playing  Apsaras  who  collects  and  scatters,  and  receives  gains 
in  the  game  of  dice.  3.  May  she  who  dances  about  with  the  dice, 
when  she  wins  by  gaming,  grant  gain  to  us,  and  obtain  success 
through  her  skill.  May  she  come  to  us  with  abundance  of  food.  Let 
them  not  conquer  this  money  of  ours.  4.  I  invoke  hither  the  joyful 
and  .exulting  Apsaras  —  those  ^goddesses]  who  delight  in  dice,  and 
who  cherish  grief  and  anger." 

It  will  be  seen  from  these  verses  that  the  Apsarases  are  intimately 
connected  with  gambling.  In  A.V.  ii.  2,  4,  'they  are  said  to  be  "  fond 
of  dice,"  and  soul-bewitching  "  (akshaka.mdh  manomuhah). 

The  next  two  hymns  which  I  proceed  to  quote  are  in  praise  of 


EIG-VEDA,  x.  117,  IN  PRAISE  OF  LIBERALITY.  431 

generosity.  The  first  of  them  celebrates  liberality  to  the  destitute  in 
general ;  the  second  eulogizes  the  same  virtue  when  exhibited  in  giving 
presents  to  priests. 

(4)  Rig-veda,  x.  117. 

• 

1.  Na  vai  u  devdh  kshudhaw,  id  vadham  dadur  utd£itam  upa  gachhanti 
mrityavah  \  uto  rayih  prinato^  nopa  dasyati  utdprinan  marditdram  na 
vindate  \  2.  Yah  ddhrdya  chakamdndya  pitvo  annavdn  san  raphitdya 
upajagmushe  \  sthiram  manah  krinute  sevate  purd  uto  chit  sa  marditaram 
na  vindate  \  3.  Sa  id  bhoj'o  yo  grihave  daddti  annakdmdya  charate 
krisdya  \  aram  asmai  bhavati  ydmahutd  utdparlshu  krinute  sakhdyam  \ 

4.  Na  sa  sakhd  yo  na  daddti  sakhye  sachdbhuve  sachamdndya  pitvah  \ 
apa  asmdt  preydd  na  tad  oko  asti  prinantam  anyam  aranam  chid  ichhet  \ 

5.  Primydd  in  nddhamdndya  tavydn  drdghlydmsam  anu  pasyeta  pan- 
thdm   |   o  hi  vartante  rathyd  iva  chakrd  anyam  anyam  upa  tisthhanta 
rdyah  \  6.  Mogham  annam  vindate  aprachetdh  satyam  Iravlmi  vadhah  it 
sa  tasya  \  na  aryamanam  pushyati  no  sakhdyam  kevaldgho  bhavati  keva- 
Iddl  |  7.  Krishann  it  phdlah  dsitam  krinoti  yann  adhvdnam  apa  vrinkte 
charitraih  \  vadan  Irahmd  avadato  varilyan  prinann  dpir  aprinantam  abhi 
sydt  |   8.  JZkapdd  Ihuyo  dvipado  vichakrame  dvipdt  tripddam  abhi  eti 
pa£chdt  |  chatushpdd  eti  dvipaddm  abhisvare  sampatyan  panktlr  upa- 
tishthamdnah  \  9.  Samau  chid  hastau  na  samam  vivishtafi  sammatard 
chid  na  samam  duhdte  \  yamayos  chid  na  samd  virydni  jndtl  chit  santau 
na  samam  primtah  \  ,  • 

"1.  The  gods  have  not  ordained  hunger  to  be  our  destruction. 
Even  those  who  are  full-fed  are  overtaken  by  various  forms  of  death 
{lit.  deaths).  The  prosperity  of  the  liberal  man  never  decays ;  while 
the  illiberal  finds  no  comforter.  2.  He  who,  himself  well  provided 
with  sustenance,  hardens  his  heart  against  the  poor  man  who  ap- 
proaches him,  starving,  and  who  has  long  courted  him,  desirous  of 
food,  such  a*man  meets  with  none  to  cheer  him.  3.  He  is  the  boun- 
tiful man  who  gives  to  the  lean  beggar  who  comes  to  him  craving, food. 
Success  attends  that'man  in  the  sacrifice,  and  he  secures  for  himself  a 
friend  in  the  future.  4.  He  is  no  friend  who  bestows  nothing  on  his 
friend  who  waits  upon  him,  seeking  for  sustenance.  Let  every  one 
depart  from  such  a  man ;  his,  house  is  no  home* — and  look  out  for 
some  one  else  who  is  liberal,  even  though  he  be  a  stranger.  5.  Let  the 


432  METRICAL  VERSION  OF  RIG-VEDA,  x.  117. 

powerful  man  be  generous  to  the  suppliant ;  let  him  look  down  the  long 
path  [of  futurity].  For,  oh,  riches  revolve  like  the  wheels  of  a  chariot : 
they  come,  now  to  one,  now  to  another.604  6.  In  vain  the  fool  obtains 
food:  I  tell  the  truth;  it  becomes  his  destruction  (comp.  v.  1).  He 
nourishes  neither  his  friend  nor  his*  companion.  He  who  keeps  his 
food  to  himself  has  his  sin  to  himself.  7!  The  ploughshare  furrowing 
the  ground  brings  men  plenty.  A  man- moving  onward  with  his  feet 
accomplishes  his  journey.  A  priest  who  speaks  is  more  acceptable 
than  one  who  is  silent.  A  kinsman  who  is  beneficent  excels  one  who 
is  stingy.  8.  A  one-footed  being  advances  faster  than  a  two-footed. 
The  two-footed  comes  after  the  three-footed.  The  four-footed  follows 
in  the  rear  of  the  two-footed,  and  moves  on  observing  his  steps.  9. 
The  two  hands,  though  alike,  do  not  perform  an  equal  amount  of 
work.  Two  cows  with  the  same  mother  do  not  yield  the  same  quan- 
tity of  milk.  Two  men,  though  twins,  have  not  the  same  strength. 
And  two  others,  though  kinsmen,  are  no't  equally  liberal." 

The  following  is  a  free  metrical  rendering  of  some  of  these  verses : — 

The  gods  have  not  ordained  that  we 
Should  die  of  want ;  the  lean  and  weak 
Are  not  death's  only  prey  ;  the  sleek 

Themselves  must  soon  his  victims  be. 

• 

Th^e  man  endowed  with  ample  pelf 

Who  steels  his  heart,  in  selfish  mood, 

Against  the  poor  who  sue  for  food 
Shall  no  consoler  find  himself. 

f  e 

6°4  It  is  curious  to  find  in  so  ancient  a  composition  this  now  trite  comparison  of 
the  changes  of  fortune  to  the  revolutions  of  a  wheel.  The  same  idea  occurs  in  the 
Mahabharata,  iii.  15489  :  "  After  happiness,  suffering,  and  after  suffering,  happiness, 
visit  a  man  in  succession,  as  the  spokes  of  a  wheel  [revolve  round]  the  nave" 
(sukhasyanantaram  duhkham  duhkhasyanantaram  sukham  \  paryayenopasarpante 
naraihf.nemim  arah  iva).  Compare  S'atap.  Br.  x.  2,  6,  19:  panat  pipasa  sriyai 
papnia  (poverty  from  prosperity)  jyotishas  tamo  'mritad  itlrityur  ni  ha  vai  asmad 
etani  sarvani  varttante.  |  "  To  drinking  succeeds  thirst,  to  prosperity  wretchedness,  to 
light  darkness,  and  to  immortality  death  :  so  that  all  these  things  constantly  revolve 
in  a  circle."  According  to  Herodotus,  i.  207,  Croecus  said  to  Cyrus  :  "  If  thou 
knowest  that  even  thoucart  human, 'and  rulest  ovtr  mortals,  learn  first  this  lesson, 
that  in  the  affairs  of  men  there  is  a  wheel  wffich,  by  its  revolution,  renders  it  im- 
possible for  the  same  persons  always  to  enjoy  prosperity." 


RIG-VEDA,  x.  107,  ON  LIBERALITY  TO  PRIESTS.  433 

No  friend  is  he  who  coldly  spurna 

Away  his  needy  friend  forlorn : 

He,  thus  repulsed,  in  wrath  and  scorn 
To  some  more  liberal  stranger  turns. 

Relieve  the  poor  while  yet  ye  may ; 

Down  future  time's  long  vista  look, 

And  try  to  read  ^hat  darkling  book ; 
Your  riches  soon  may  flit  away. 

Ye  cannot  trust  their  fickle  grace ; 
As  chariot  wheels,  in  ceaseless  round, 
Now  upward  turn,  now  touch  the  ground, 

So  riches  ever  change  their  place. 

The  man  whose  friend  receives  no  share 

In  all  his  good,  himself  destroys  : 

Who  thus  alone  his  food  enjoys 
His  sin  alone  shall  also  bear. 

(5).  Rig-veda,  x.  107. 

1.  Avir  abhud  malii  mdghonam  eshdm  visvamjivam  tamaso  nir  amochi  \ 
mahi  jyotih  pitribhir  dattam  dgdd  uruh  panthdh  dakshindydh  adarbi  \ 
2.  Uchchd  dim  dakshindvanto  asthur  ye  asvaddh  saha  te  siiryena  \  hira- 
nyaddh  amritatvam  bhajante  vdsoddh  Sorqa  pratirante  dyuh  \  3.  Daivl 
purttir  dakshind  devayajyd  na  kavdribhyo  na  hi  te  prinanti  \  atha  nardh 
prayata-dakshindso  avadya-bhiyd  lahavah  prinanti  \  ....  5.  Dakshi- 
ndvdn  prathamo  hutah  eti  dakshmdvdn  grdmanlr  agram  eti  \  tarn  eva 
manye  tiripatim  janandm  yah  prathamo  dakshindm  avivaya  \  6.  Tarn 
eva  rishiin  tarn  u  brahmunam  dhur  yajnanyam  sdmagdm  uktliaiasam  \  sa 
sukrasya  tanvo  veda  tisro  yah  prathamo  dahshinayd  rarddha  \  7.  Dahshind 
'svam  dakshMd  gam  daddti  dakshind  chandram  uta  yad  hiranyam  \ 
dakshind  'nnam  vanute  yo  nah  dtmd  dakshindm  varma  krinute  vijdnan  \ 
8.  Na  bhojdh  mamrur  na  nyartham  lyvr  na  rishyanti  na  vyathante  ha 
bhojdh  |  idam  yad  visvam  bhuvanam  svascha  etat  sarvam  dakshind  ebhyo 
daddti  \  9.  Bhojdh  jigyuh*surabhim  yonim  agre  bhojdh  jigyur  vadhvam 
yd  suvdsdh  \  bhojdh  jigyur  anlahweyam  surdydh  bhojbh  jigyur  ye  ahutdh 
prayanti  \  10.  Bhojdya  asvam  sam  mrijanti  dsum  bhojdya  dste  kanyd 

28 


434  PEAISE  OF  LIBERALITY  TO  PRIESTS. 

Sumlhamdnd  \  Ihojasya  idam  pushltaramva  vesma  jparishlcritam,  devamdnd 
iva  chitram  \  11.  Bhojam  asvdh  sushthuvdho  vahanti  suvrid  ratho  varttate 
dafohindydh  \  bhojam  devdso  avata  bhareshu  Ihojah  satrun  samamkeshu 
jetd  | 

"  1.  The  great  liberality-  of  these  men  has  been  manifested. 
The  whole  living  [world]  has  been  literated  from  darkness.  The 
great  light  given  by  the  Fathers605  h?.s  arrived.  The  broad  path  of 
Largess  has  been  beheld.  2.  The  givers  of  gifts  abide  aloft  in  the 
sky;  the  bestowers  of  horses  live  with  the  Sun;  the  givers  of  gold 
attain  immortality ;  the  bestowers  of  raiment  prolong  their  lives.  3. 
A  gift  is  a  satisfaction  of  the  gods,  an  offering  to  the  deities,  and  [pro- 
ceeds] not  from  the  illiberal ;  they  bestow  nothing ;  and  many  men 
who  bestow  largesses  are  bountiful  merely  through  fear  of  reproach 

5.  The  giver  of  gifts,  invited,  advances  first  :    he  walks  in 

the  front  as  leader.606  I  regard  as  the  king  of  men  him  who  first 
presented  a  gift.  6.  They  call  him .  a  rishi,  a  priest,  a  reverend 
chanter  of  hymns  and  reciter  of  verses, — he  knows  the  three  forms  of 
the  resplendent  (Agni), — the  man  who  was  the  first  to  crown  [his 
religious  service]  with  a  gift.  7.  Largess  bestows  a  cow,  a  horse, 
and  gleaming  gold.  Largess  bestows  food,  which  is  our  life.  The 
wise  man  makes  largess-giving  his  breastplate.  8.  Bountiful  men 
neither  die  nor  fall  into  calamity ;  they  suffer  neither  wrong  nor  pain. 
Their  liberality  confers  on  them  this  whole  world  as  well  as  heaven. 
9.  The  bountiful  conquer  for  themselves  first,  a  pleasant  abode,  a  well- 
dressed  wife,  and  a  draught  of  wine ;  they  conquer  those  who  walk 
before  them,  uninvited.  10.  A  fleet  horse  is  trained  for  the  generous 
man ;  he  obtains  a  brilliant  damsel  for  his  portion ;  this  house  of  his 
resembles  a  lotns-pond,  beautiful,  embellished  like  the  palace^  of  the 
gods.  1 1 .  The  liberal  man  is  borne  along  by  rapid  horses.  The  car  of 
largess  rolls  forward  on  easy  wheels.  Preserve,  ye  gods,  the  bountiful 
man  in  battle.  He  overcomes  his  enemies  in  the  fight."  C- 

605  "Compare  R.V.  x.  68,  11.     "  The  Fathers  have  adorned  the  sky  with  stars  .... 
and  placed  darkness  in  the  night,  and  fight  in  the  day  "  (see  above,  p.  287). 

606  Compare  R.V.  iv.  50,  8  f.  where  the  prosperity  and  honour  which  attend  a 
prince  who  retains  and  cherishes  a  domestic  priest  are  described.     See  Professor 
Wilson's  translation,  and  note  on  vr  9,  in  p.  214;  and  Roth's  Art.  on  Brahma  and 
the  Brahmans,  Journ.  Germ.  Or.  Society,  i.  77iff.     See  also  the  hymn  from  the  A.Y. 
iii.  19,  quoted  in  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  283. 


RIG- VEDA,  vn.  103,  AUTUMNAL  REVIVAL  OF  THE  FROGS.     435 

Verses  8  if.  may  be  thus  freely  rendered  : — 

The  liberal  does  not  mourn  or  die  ; 
No  pain  or  care  his  life  annoys ; 
This  world  is  his  with  all  its  joys, 

And  future  bliss  bey  and  the  sky. 

• 
He  owns  a  princely  palace  bright, 

And  dwells  in  godlike  pomp  and  pride  ^ 
A  richly  decked  and  winning  bride 
Sits  fair  and  blooming  by  his  side, 
And  fills  his  heart  with  love's  delight. 

With  plenteous  stores  of  corn  and  wine 
Supplied,  a  merry  life  he  leads ;  t 

Swift  o'er  the  plain  his  chariot  speeds, 
"Whirled  on  by  prancing,  snorting,  steeds ; 

He  smites  his  foes»by  aid  divine. 

The  hymn  which  I  cite  next  has  been  already  translated  by  Pro- 
fessor Max  Miiller  in  his  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit-,  pp.  494  f.,  where  he  thus 
remarks  on  it :  "  The  103rd  hymn  of  the  7th  Mandala,  which  is  called 
a  panegyric  of  the  frogs,  is  clearly  a  satire  on  the  priests ;  and  it  is 
curious  to  observe  that  the  same  animal  should  have  been  chosen  by 
the  Yedic  satirist  to  represent  the  priests,  which,  by  the  earliest 
satirist  of  Greece,  was  selected  as  the  representative  of  the  Homeric 
heroes." 

(6)  Rig-veda,  TII.  103. 

1.  Samvatsaram  Sasaydndh  Irdhmandh  vrata-chdrinah  \  vdcham  Par- 
janya-jfavitdm  pra  mandukdh  avddishuh  \  2.  Divydh  dyo  abhi  yad  enam 
dyan  dritim  na  sushkam  sarasl  saydnam  \  gavdm,  aha  na  mdyur  vatst'nl- 
ndm  mandukdndih  vagnur  atra  earn  eti  \  3.  Yad  im  endn  usato  alky 
avarshlt  tritfiydvatah  prdvrishi  dgatdydm  \  akhkhallkritya  pita/rain  na 
putro  anyo  anyam  upa  vadantam  eti  \  4.  Anyo  anyam  anu  griWindti  enor 
apdm  visarge  yad  adandishdtdm  \  manduko  yad  alhivrishtah  kanishkan 
prisnih  samprinkte  haritena  vdcham  \  o.  Yad  eshdm  anyo  anyasya 
vdcham  sdktasyeva  vadati%  sikshamdnah  \  sarvam  tad  eshdm  samridheva 
parva  yad  suvdcho  vadathana  \dhi  apsu  \  *6.  Gomdytir  eko  ajamdyur  ekah 
prisnir  eko  haritah  ekah  eshdm  \  samdnam  ndma  bibhrito  virupdh  purutra 


436          AUTUMNAL  CROAKING  OF  THE  FROGS  COMPARED 

vacham  pipiiur  vadantah  \  7.  UrdhmanSso  atirdtre  na  some  saro  na 
purnam  alhito  vadantah  \  samvatsarasya  tad  ahah  pari  shtha  yan 
mandulcdh  prdvrishlnam  lalhuva  \  8.  Brahmanasah  somino  vacham 
aJcrata  brahma  Icrinvantah  parivatsarlnam  \  adhvaryavo  gharminah  sishvi- 
ddndh  dvir  lhavanti  guhydh  na  ke  chit  \  9.  Devdhitim  jugupur  dvdda- 
sanya  ritum  naro  na  pra  minanti  ete  \  sdmvatsare  prdvrishi  dgatdydih 
taptdh  gharmdh  asnuvate  visargam  \  lOf-Gomdyur  addd  ajamdyur  addt 
prisnir  addd  harito  no  vasuni  \  gavdm  mandukdh  dadatah  iatani  saha- 
srasdve  pratirante  ayah  \ 

"1.  These  vow-fulfilling  Brahmans,  the  frogs,  after  lying  quiet  for 
a  year,  have  now  uttered  their  voice,  stimulated  by  Parjanya  (the 
rain-god).  2.  When  the  waters  from  the  sky  fell  upon  them,  as  they 
lay  like  a  dry  skin607  in  the  (dried- up)  pond,  the  voice  of  the  frogs 
rises  in  concert,  like  the  lowing  of  cows  which  have  calves.  3.  When, 
on  the  arrival  of  the  autumn,  rain  fell  upon  them,  when  they  were 
ardently  desiring  it  and  parched  witli  thirst,  the  one  croaking  ap- 
proaches, like  a  son  his  father,  another  who  is  calling  out.  4.  One 
of  them  seizes  the  other,  when  they  are  delighted  with  the  dis- 
charge of  the  waters  ;  when  the  speckled  frog,  soaked,  and  leaping 
upwards,  joins  his  voice  to  that  of  the  green  one.  5.  When  the 
one  repeats  the  sounds  of  the  other,  as  a  pupil  the  words  of  his 
teacher,  your  every  limb  seems  in  full  vigour,  as  ye  make  a 
loud  noise  upon  the  waters.  6.  One  lows  like  a  cow,  another 
bleats  like  a  goat ;  one  of  them  is  speckled,  another  green.  Having 
a  common  name,  they  vary  in  appearance,  and  modulate  their  voices 
diversely  as  they  croak.  7.  Like  Brahmans  at  the  Atiratra  soma- 
rite,  like  (priests)  talking  round  a  full  bowl,  ye  frogs  surround  the 
pond  on  this  d«?y  of  the  year  which  is  the  day  of  autumn.  '  8.  The 
soma-offering  Brahmans  raise  their  voices,  performing  their  annual 
devotions  ;  these  adhvaryus,  sweating  with  their  hot  oblations  [or 
their  kettles]  issue  forth  like  persons  who  have  been  hidden.  9.  They 
have,,  observed  the  divine  ordinances  of  the  year ;  these  creatures  do 
not  disregard  the  season  ;  when  autumn  has  arrived  these  heated 
kettles  obtain  their  release.  10.  The  frog  who  lows,  and  the  one  who 
bleats,  the  speckled  and  the  brown,  have  bestowed  on  us  riches  : 

C  '  I 

607  Prof.  Miiller  renders  driti  by  "  fish.''     I'^prefer  the  more  common  signification 
of  "skin." 


TO  THE^BRAHMANS'  KECITATION  OF  PRAYERS.  437 

giving  us  hundreds  of  cows,  the  frogs  prolong  our  lives  in  the  season 
of  a  thousand  shoots." 

I  have  attempted  to  give  the  substance  of  this  hymn  very  freely  in 

the  following  verses  : — 

• 

As  Brahmans,  wHo  a  vow  fulfil, 

The  .frogs  had  now*  a  year  been  still. 

Like  dried  and  shrivelled  skins  they  lay, 

Faint,  parched  with  heat  for  many  a  day, 

Expecting,  long  in  vain,  the  showers 

Withheld  by  Air's  malignant  powers. 

But  autumn  comes ;  Pan  any  a  rains 

In  copious  streams,  and  floods  the  plains. 

Clouds  veil  the  sun,  the  air  is  cool, 

The  ponds,  long  empty,  now  are  full. 

There  float  the  frog*s,  their  bodies  soak  } 

Afar  is  heard  their  merry  croak. 

Well  drenched,  they  jump  aloft  in  glee, 

And  join  in  noisy  colloquy. 

They  leap  upon  each  others'  backs, 

And  each  to  t'  other  cries  co-ax. 

As  teachers  first  call  out  a  word, 

Then  boys  repeat  what  they  have  heard, 

Just  so  the  frogs  croak  out  once  more 

What  other  frogs  had  croaked  before. 

Sounds  diverse  issue  from  their  throats, 

Some  low  like  cows,  some  bleat  like  goats, 

Though  one  in  name,  of  various  sheen,        " 

For  one  is  brown,  another  green. 

As  Brahmans  at  a  Soma-rite 

Around  the  bowl  in  talk  unite, 

This  day  the  frogs  their  pcyid  surround,  » 

And  make  the  air  with  noise  resound. 

These  priests,  the  frogs,  their  voices  raise, 

And  sing  their*  annual  hymn%of  praise. 

As  priests  who  sweated  o'er  a  pot 

Soon  quit  the  fire  they  find  too  hot, 


438      ATHAEVA-VEDA,  vir.  12,  PRAISE  OF  SOCIAL  MEETINGS. 

The  frogs,  so  long  oppressed  by  heat, 
Emerge  in  haste  from  their  retreat. 
From  rules  divine  they  never  swerve, 
But  all  the  seasons'  laws  observe. 
"When  autumn  comes,  their  sufferings  cease, 
From  scorching  heat  they  find  release. 
The  frogs  that  bleat,  and  those  that  low,    < 
Brown,  green,  on  men  all  wealth  bestow. 
The  kine  that  on  our  pastures  graze, 
We  owe  to  them,  with  length  of  days. 

It  is  possibly  an  echo  of  this  production  that  we  find  in  a  description 
of  autumn  in  the  Harivamsa,  v.  8803,  where  the  poet  compares  the 
noise  made  by  a  frog,  after  his  rest  of  sixteen  half  months,  along  with 
his  wives,  to  the  recitation  of  the  Eig-veda  by  a  Brahman  surrounded 
by  his  pupils  (plavangamah  shodasa-pakthasdylm  virauti  goshthah  saha 
kdminlbhih  \  richo  dvijdtih  priya-satya-dharmd  yathd  svasishyaih  pari- 
varyamdnah].  On  this  verse  the  late  M.  Langlois  somewhat  naively 
remarks  as  follows,  in  a  note  to  his  French  translation  of  the  Hariv. 
vol.  iL  p.  132  :  Dans  nos  moeurs  rien  n'  egalerait  1'  impertinence 
d'une  comparaison  dans  laquelle  une  grenouille  serait  assimilee  a  un 
respectable  ecclesiastique.  Les  Indiens,  a  ce  qu'  il  parait,  ne  voyaient 
dans  telle  espece  de  rapprochement  aucune  teinte  d'  impiete." 

The  next  hymn  breathes  a  social  spirit,  and  a  disposition  to  profit 
by  the  improving  influences  of  the  company  of  cultivated  men,  com- 
bined, however,  with  a  vainglorious  desire  to  shine  at  their  expence. 

(7).  Atharva-veda,  vn.  12. 

1 .  SabJid  cha  md  samitis  cha  avatdm  Prajdpater  duhitarau  samviddne  \ 
yendsangachhai  upa  md  sa  sikshdt  chdru  vaddni  pitarah  sdngateshu  \  2. 

608  There  seems  to  be  no  doubt  that  this  word  refers  to  the  frog's  eight  months 
quiescence  since  the  close  of  the'  preceding  rainy  season.  M.  Langlois,  who  had 
before  him  the  reading  shodasa-paksha-saryyl,  was  naturally  puzzled  by  it,  and 
renders  it,  "  La  grenouille,  dont  les  flancs  sont  commt  sillonnes  par  les  seize  cotes," 
and  he  adds  a  note  to  the  following  effect :  "  II  me  semble  que,  par  cette  epithete  un 
peu  obscure,  1'  intention  de  1'  auteur  est  de  depeindre  les  seize  cotes  de  la  grenouille, 
devenues  plus  apparentes  a  la  suite  des  chaleurs  de  I'e'te  qui  ont  du  1'  afFaiblir." 


ATHARVA-VEDA,  m.  30,  PRAYER  FOR  CONCORD  IN  A  FAMILY.     439 

Vidma  te  sabhe  ndma  narishtd  ndma  vai  asi  \  ye  te  Tie  cha  sabhdsadas  te  me 
santu  savdchasah  \  3.  Eshtim  aham  samdslndndm  varcho  vijndnam  ddade  \ 
asydh  sarvasydh  samsado  mam  Indra  bhaginam  Icrinu  \  4.  Yad  vo  manah 
pardgatam  yad  baddham  iha  vehf,  vd  \  tad  vah  dvartaydmasi  mayi  vo 
ramatdm  manah  \ 

"1.  May  Assembly  and  Meeting,  the  two  daughters  of  Prajapati, 
concurrently  preserve  me.  Ma*y  every  one  whom  I  meet  resort  to  me ; 
may  I  speak  agreeably,  o  fathers,  in  the  assemblies.  2.  Assembly, 
we  know  thy  name  ;  thy  name  is  conversation.  Let  all  the  members 
of  the  company  converse  with  me.  3.  I  appropriate  the  glory  and  the 
knowledge  of  these  men  who  are  seated  here.  Indra,  make  me  the 
most  distinguished  in  all  this  assembly.  4.  If  your  thoughts  have 
turned  elsewhere,  or  are  enchained  here  or  there,  we  cause  them  to 
return :  let  them  delight  in  me," 

The  hymn  of  which  I  next  give  the  first  four  verses  contains  a 
prayer,  or  incantation,  for  concord  in  a  family. 


(8).  Atharva-veda,  in.  30. 

1.  Sahridayam  sdmmanasyam  avidvesham  krinomi  vah  \  anyo  any  am 
abhi  haryata  vatsam  jtitam  ivdghnyd  \  2.  Anuvratah  pituh  putro  mdtrd 
thavatu  sammandh  \  jdyd  patye  madhumatlm  vdcham  vadatu  santwan  \  3. 
Ma  Ihrdtd  Ihrdtaram  dvikshad  md  svas'dram  uta  svasd  \  samyancliah 
savratdh  Ihutvd  vdcham  vadata  lhadrayd  \  4.  Yena  devdh  na  viyanti  no 
cha  vidvishate  mithah  \  tat  Tcrinmo  Irahma  vo  grihe  sanjndnam  purushe- 
Ihyah  \ 

"I.I  impart  to  you  concord,  with  unity  of  hearts  and  freedom  from 
hatred  :  delight  one  in  another,  as  a  cow  at  the  birth  of  a  calf.  2. 
May  the  son  be  obedient  to  his  father,  and  of  one  mind  with  his 
mother :  may  the  wife,  at  peace  with609  her  husband,  speak  to  him  honied 
words.  3.  Let  not  brother  hate  brother,  nor  sister  sister  :  concortlant 
and  united  in  will  speak  to  on«  another*  with  kind  words.  4.  We 

perform  in  your  house  an  incantation,  creating  concord  among  its  in- 
• 

>  •»  » 

609  I  am  unable  to  give  an  explanation  of  the  word  santivan,  which,  though  mascu- 
line in  form,  seems  to  agree  with  jaya. 


440  INCANTATIONS  TO  SAVE  THE  DYING, 

mates,  and  one  through  which  the  gods  will  not  desert  you,  nor  mutual 
hatred  exist."  61° 

The  four  hymns  of  the  Atharva-veda  which  follow  contain  incanta- 
tions designed  to  save  persons  suffering  under  dangerous  diseases,  and 
on  the  point  of  death,  from  death ;  "or  rather  perhaps  to  try  to  recall 
their  spirits  after  their  separation  from  ttie  body.  They  supply  various 
illustrations  of  the  conceptions  entertaiiied  by  the  Indians  of  the  period 
when  they  were  composed,  regarding  the  vital  principle,  the  relations 
of  the  different  senses  to  the  several  elements,  the  deities  by  whom 
men's  tenure  of  life  was  regulated,  the  power  of  incantations  to  arrest 
the  approach  of  doom,  and  other  kindred  particulars.  Some  of  the 
ideas  which  we  shall  meet  here  have  already  occurred  in  the  section 
on  Yama. 

(9).  Atharva-veda,  v.  30. 

*/ 
1.  Avatas  te  dvatah  pardvatas  te  dvatah  \  ihaiva  bhava  md  mi  gdh  md 

purvdn  anu  gdh  pitrln  asum  badhndmite  dridham  \  2.  Yat  tvd  'bhicheruh 
purushah  svo  yad  arano  janah  \  unmochana-pramochane  ubhe  vdchd  vaddmi 
te  |  3.  Yad  dudrohitha  sepishe  striyai  pumse  achittyd  \  unmo — |  4.  Yad 
enaso  mdtrikritdt  seshe  pitrikritdt  cha  yat  \  unmo — |  5.  Yat  te  mdtd  yat 
tepitdjdmir  bhrdtd  cha  sarjatah  \  pratyak  sevasva  bheshaj am  jaradashtim 
Icrinomi  tvd  \  6.  Ihaidhi  purusha  sarvena  manasd  saha  \  dutau  Yamasya 
md  'nugdh  adhi  jlvapurd  ihi  \  7.  Anuhutah  punar  ehi  vidvdn  udayanam 
pathah  \  drohanam  dkramandm  jlvato  jlvato  'yanam,  \  8.  Md  libher  na 
marishyasi  jaradashtim  Icrinomi  tvd  \  niravocham  aham  yalcshmam  ange- 
bhyo  'ngajvaram  tava  \  9.  Angabhedo  angajvaro  yas  cha  te  hridaydmayah  \ 
yakshmah  syenah  iva  prdpaptad  vdchd  sddhah  parastardm  \  10.  Rishl 
Sodhapratlbodhdv  asvapno  yas  cha  jdgrivih  \  tau  te  prdnasya  goptdrau 
diva  nalctam  cha  jdgritdm  \  11.  Ay  am  Agnir  upasadyah  iha  suryah 
udetu  te  \  udehi  mrityor  gambhlrdt  Jcrishndt  chit  tamasas  pari  \  12. 
Namo  Yamdya  namo  astu  mrityave  namah  pitribhyah  uta  ye  nayanti  \ 
utparanasya  yo  veda  tarn  agniu  puro  dadhe  astrai  arishtatdtaye  \  13. 

610  Three  hymns  of  the  Atharva-veda,  viz.  iii.  19  ;  v.  18,  and  v.  19,  together  with 
two  verses  (the  8th  and  9th)  of  v.  17,  which  formed  part  of  this  section,  as  it  origi- 
nally appeared  in  the  Vournal  of  the  Eoyal  Asiatic  Society  for  1866,  pp.  33  flf.,  are 
omitted  here,  as  they  have  subsequently  been  quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work, 
2nd  Edition,  pp.  280-287. 


OR  RECALL  THE  DEAD  TO  LIFE.  441 

Aitu  prdnah  aitu  manah  aitu  chakshur  atJio  lalam  \  sarlram  asya  sam 
viddm  tat  padbhydm  prati  tishthatu  \  14.  Prdnendgne  chakshushd  sam 
srijemam  samlraya  tanvd  sam  balena  \  vettha  amritasya  md  nu  gdt  ma 
nu  bhumigriho  'bhuvat  \  15.  Md  fe  prdnah  upadasat  mo  apdno  'pi  dhdyi 
te  \  suryas  tvd  'dhipatir  mrityot*  uddyachhatu  rasmibhih  \  16.  lyam 
antar  vadati  jihvd  baddhd  panishpadd  \  tvayd  yakshmam  niravocham 
satam  ropis  cha  takmanah  \  17!  Ay  am  lokah  priyatamo  devdndm  apard- 
jitah  |  yasmai  tvam  iha  mrityave  dishfah  purusha  jajnishe  \  sa  cha  tvd 
''nu  hvaydmasi  md  purdjaraso  mrithdh  \ 

"1.  From  thy  vicinity,  from  thy  vicinity,  from  a  distance,  from 
thy  vicinity  [I  call"]  to  thee :  remain  here  ;  do  not  follow,  do  not 
follow,  the  early  Fathers.  I  firmly  hold  back  thy  breath.  2.  "What- 
ever incantations  any  kinsman  or  stranger  has  uttered  against  thee, 
— with  my  voice  I  declare  thy  release  and  deliverance  from  them 
all.  3.  Whatever  hurt  thou  hast  done,  or  curse  thou  hast  spoken,  in 
thy  folly,  against  woman  or  man,  with  my  voice,  etc.  4.  If  thou  liest 
there  in  consequence  of  any  sin  committed  by  thy  mother,  or  thy 
father,611  with  my  voice,  etc.  5.  Receive  the  medicine  which  thy 
father,  mother,  sister  and  brother  offer  to  thee.  I  make  thee  long- 
lived.  6.  Remain  here,  o  man,  with  thy  entire  soul ;  do  not  follow 
the  two  messengers  of  Yama ; 612  come  to  the  abodes  of  the  living.  7. 
Return  when  called,  knowing  the  outlet  of  the  path,  the  ascent,  the 
advance,  the  road  of  every  living  man.  8.  Fear  not ;  thou  shalt  not 
die ;  I  make  thee  long-lived.  I  have  'charmed  out  of  thy  members 
the  consumption  by  which  they  are  wasted.  9.  The  consumption 

611  Compare  a  curious  passage  from  the  Taittirlya  Brahmana  iii.  7,  12,  3  f.,  already 
quoted  iji  p.  66  :  "May  Agni  deliver  me  from  any  sin  which  my  mother  may  have 
committed  when  I  was  in  her  womb,  or  which  my  father  may  hafe  committed.     May 
my  parents  have  received  no  injury  from  me,  when  I,  a  son,  in  sucking,  squeezed  my 
mother  and  father  in  my  delight."     Compare  also  R.V.  vii.  86,  5,  quoted  above  in 
the  same  paM,  as  well  as  the  following  texts  :    R.V.  vi.  51,  7,  Ma  vah  eno  anya- 
kritam  bhujema  ma  tat  karma  yat  chayadhve  \  "May  we  not  suffer  [the  penalty  of] 
sin  committed  by  others,  or  do  that  which  you  will  punish,  o  Vasus!"     vii4  52,  2, 
Ma  vo   bhujema   anyajuttam   eno   ma   tat   karma  vasavo  yat  chayadhve  \  of  nearly 
identical  sense  with  the  preceding  texf.     x.  37,  IS.   Yad  no  devas  chakrima  jihvaya 
guru  munaso  va  prayutl  devahetanam  \  aravd  yo  no  abhi  duchhunayate  tasmin  tad  eno 
vasavo  ni  dhetana  \  "  If  we  hswe  committed  against  you  any  grievous  offence,  o  gods, 
with  our  tongues,  or  through  thoughtlessness,  transfer  (the^juilt  of)  that  sin  to  the 
enemy  who  regards  us  with  malice."* 

612  See  the  section  on  Yama,  p.  294. 


442  INCANTATIONS  TO  SAVE  THE  DYING, 

•which  racks  and  wastes  thy  limbs,  and  sickens  thy  heart,  has  flown 
away  to  a  distance  like  a  hawk,  overcome  by  my  word.  10.  The  two 
sages,  Alert  and  Watchful,  the  sleepless  and  the  vigilant,  these  the 
guardians  of  thy  life,  are  awake  both  day  and  night.  11.  May  this 
adorable  Agni  rise  here  to  thee  as  a  ^un.  Rise  up  from  deep  death,613 
yea,  even  from  black  darkness.611  12.  Eeverence  to  Yama,  reverence 
to  Death,  reverence  to  the  Fathers,  aE<d  to  those  who  guide  us.  I 
place  in  front  of  this  [sick]  man,  for  his  security,  Agni,  who  knows 
how  to  carry  him  across.  13.  Let  his  breath,  let  his  soul,  let  his 
sight  come,  and  then  his  strength ;  let  his  body  acquire  sensation,  and 
stand  firm  upon  its  feet.  14.  Provide  him,  Agni,  with  breath,  and 
with  sight ;  restore  him,  furnished  with  a  body,  and  with  strength.615 
Thou  hast  the  knowledge  of  immortality ;  let  him  not  depart,  or 
become  a  dweller  in  a  house  of  clay.  15.  Let  not  thy  inhaled  breath 
cease  ;  let  not  thy  exhaled  breath  vanish.  Let  the  sun,  the  lord,  raise 
thee  up  from  death  by  his  rays.  16.  This  tongue  speaks  within, 
bound,  convulsive.  By  thee  I  have  charmed  away  the  consumption, 
and  the  hundred  torments  of  the  fever.  17.  This  world  is  the  dearest, 
unconquered  by  the  gods.  To  whatever  death  thou  wast  destined 
when  thou  wast  born,  o  man, — we  call  after  thee,  do  not  die  before 
thou  art  worn  out  by  old  age." 

(10)  Atharva-veda,  YII.  53. 

1.  Amutrabhuydd  adhi  yad  Yamasya  Brihaspate  abhisaster  amunchah  \ 
pratyauhatdm  Asvind  mrityum  asmad  devdndm  Ague  Ihishajd  sachlbhih  \ 
2.  Sam  Jcramatam  ma  jihltam  sarlram  prdndpdnau  te  sayujdv  iha  stdm  \ 
satam  jlva  sarado  vardhamdno  Agnis  te  gopdh  adhipdh  vasishfaah  \  3. 
Ayur  yat  te  atihitam  pardchair  apdnah  prdnah  punar  d  tdv  itdm  \  Agnis 
tad  dhdr  nirriter  upasthdt  tad  dtmani  punar  dvesaydmi  te  \  4.  Md 
imam  prdno  hdsld  mo  apdno  avahdya  para  gdt  \  sapta  risKibhyah  enam 
paridaddmi  te  enam  svasti  jarase  vahantu  \  5.  Pravisatam  prdndpdndv 

f)  ^-( 

anadvdhdv  iva  vrajam  \  ayamjarimnah  sevadhir  an&htah  iha  vardhatdm  \ 
6.  A  te  prdnam  suvdmasi  para  yakshmam  suvdmi  te  \  dyur  no  visvato 

613  Compare  the  antis  o\(8pos  of  Homer. 

611  Already  quoted  in  the  sectio'u  on  Yama,  p.  312. 

«15  Compare  the  section  just  referred  to,  p.  297  ff. 


OR  RECALL  THE  DEAD  TO  LIFE.  443 

dadhad  ay  am  Agnir  varenyah  \    7.    Ud  vayafn  tamasas  pari  rohanto 
ndkam  uttamam  \  devam  devatrd  suryam  aganmajyotir  utlamam  \ 

"1.  Brihaspati,  thou  hast  delivered  us  from  dwelling  in  the  realm 
of  Yama,  from  the  curse.  The  Asvins, — they  who,  o  Agni,  are  the 
two  physicians  of  the  gods, — theyhave  repelled  death  from  us  by  their 
powers.  2.  Continue  associated,  ye  two  breaths,  inspired  and  expired  ; 
forsake  not  his  hpdy :  may  they,  united,  remain  with  thee  here.  Live 
prosperously  a  hundred  autumns.  Agni  is  thy  brilliant  protector  and 
lord.  3.  May  thy  life,  which  has  been  dissipated  afar,  may  thy 
breaths,  come  back  to  thee  again.  Agni  has  snatched  it  from  the  lap 
of  Nirriti  (Destruction)  :  and  I  introduce  it  again  into  thyself.  4.  Let 
not  his  inspiration  abandon  him,  nor  his  expiration  quit  him  and 
depart.  I  commit  him  to  the  seven  Eishis ;  may  they  carry  him  on 
in  health  to  old  age.  5.  Enter  into  him,  ye  two  breaths,  like  two 
steers  forcing  their  way  into  a  cow-pen.  May  this  man  flourish  here, 
an  unmolested  depositary  of  o^d  age.  6.  We  restore  thy  breath.  I 
drive  away  consumption  from  thee.  May  this  excellent  Agni  sustain 
our  life  on  every  side.  7.  Ascending  from  the  darkness  to  the  upper- 
most heaven,  we  have  reached,  among  the  gods,  the  god  Surya,  the 
highest  luminary." 

(11)  Atharva-veda,  Yin.  1. 

1.  Antakdya  mrityave  namah  prdndh.  apdndh  iha  te  ramantdm  \ 
ihdyam  astu  purushah  sahdsund  suryasya  bhdge  amritasya  loke  \  2.  Ud 
enam  Bhago  agrabhld  ud  enam  Somo  amsumdn  \  ltd  enam  Maruto  devdh  ud 
Indrdgnl  svastaye  \  3.  Iha,  te  asur  iha  pranah  ihdyur  iha  te  manah  \  ut 
tvd  Nirritydh  pdselhyo  daivyd  vdchd  lhardmasi  \  4»  Utkrdma  atah 
purmha  ma  'va  pattJidh  mrityoh  padblsam  avamunchamdnah  \  md  chhit- 
thdh  asmdl  loJcdd  agneh  suryasya  sandriseh  \  5.  Tulhyaih  vdtah  pavatdm 
mdtarisvd  tulhyam  varshantu  amritdni  dpah  \  suryas  te  tanve  iam 
tapdti  tvdm  mrityur  dayatdm  md  pra  mfshthdh  \  6.  Udydnam  te  pu^usha 
ndvaydnam  jivdtum  te  dahshatdtim  Jcrinomi  \  d  hi  rohemam  amritam 
sukham  ratham  atha  jivrir  vidatham  d  vaddsi  \  7.  Md  te  manas  tatra 
gdd  md  tiro  bhud  md  jlvelltyah  pra  mado  md  'nugdh  pitrln  \  viive  devdh 
alhi  rahhantu  tveha  \  8.  Md  gatdndm  d  didhithdh  ye  nayanti  pard- 
vatam  \  d  roha  tamaso  jyotir  ehy  d  te  hastau  rabhdmahe  \  9.  S'ydmas 


444         INCANTATIONS  TO  SAVE  THE  DYING, 

cha  tvd  ma  Cabalas  cha  preshitau  Yamasya  yau  pathirakshl  ivdnau  \  arvdn 
ehi  ma  <ci  dldhyo  ma  'tra  tishfha  pardnmandh  \  10.  Ma  etam  panthdm 
anu  gdh  Ihlmah  esha  yena  purvam  na  lyatha  tarn  Iravlmi  \  tamah  etat 
purusha  md  pro,  patthdh  bhayam  parastdd  abhayam  te  arvdk  \  11.  Rak- 
shantu  tva  agnayo  ye  apsu  antd  raks&atu  tvd  manushydh  yam  indhate  \ 
vaisvdnaro  rakshatu  jdtaveddh  divyas  tvd  md  dhdg  vidyutd  saha  \  12. 
Md  tvd  Icravydd  dbJii  mamsta  drdt  soMkasukdt  chart?  \  rakshatu  tvd 
Dyauh  rakshatu  Prithivl  suryas  cha  tvd  rakshatdm  chandramds  cha  \ 
antariksham  rakshatu  devahetydh  \  13.  Bodhai  cha  tvd  Pratlbodhas  cha 
rakshatdm  \  Asvapnas  cha  tvd  Anavadrdnas  cha  rakshatdm  \  Gopdyamk 
cha  tvd  Jdgrivis  cha  \  14.  Te  tvd  rakshantu  te  tvd  gopdyantu  tebhyo 
namas  telhyah  svdhd  \  15.  Jlvelhyas  tvd  samude  Vdyur  Indro  Dhdtd 
dadhdtu  Savitd  trdyamdnah  \  md  tvd  prdno  balam  hdsld  asuih  te  'nu 
hvaydmasi  \  16.  Md  tvd  jambhah  samhanur  md  tamo  vidad  md  jihvd 
barhih  pramayuh  kathd  sydh  \  tit  tvd  Aditydh  Vasavo  lharantu  ud 
Indrdgnl  svastaye  \  17.  Ut  tvd  Dyaur  'ut  Prithivl  ut  Prajdpatir  agra- 
bhlt  \  ut  tvd  mrityor  oshadhayo  somardjnir  aplparan  \  18.  Ay  am  devdh 
ihaivdstu  ayam  md  'mutra  gdd  itah  \  imam  sahasravlryena  mrityor 
utpdraydmasi  \  19.  Ut  tvd  mrityor  aplparam  sam  dhamantu  vayodhasah  \ 
md  tvd  vyastakesyo  md  tvd  agharudo  rudan  \  20.  Ahdrsham  avidam  tvd 
punar  dgdh  punarnavah  \  sarvdngah  sarvam  te  chakshuh  sarvam  dyui  cha 
te  'vidam  \  21.  Vyavdt  te  jyotir  abhud  apa  tvat  tamo  akramit  \  apa  tvad 
mrityum  nirritim  apa  yakshmam  ni  dadhmasi  \ 

"1.  Eeverence  to  Death  the  Ender  !  May  thy  inhaled  and  exhaled 
breaths  gladly  rest  here.  May  this  man  remain  here  united  with  his 
spirit  in  the  domain  of  the  sun,  in  the  world  of  deathlessness.  2.  Bhaga 
and  Soma  with  his  filaments,  the  divine  Maruts,  Indra,  and  Agni,  have 
raised  him  up  to  health.  Here  is  thy  spirit,  here  thy  breath,  here  thy 
life,  here  thy  soul.  We  rescue  thee  from  the  bonds  of  Mrriti  by  a 
divine  utterance.  4.  Rise  up  hence,  o  man.  Casting  off  the  fetters  of 
death,  do  not  sink  downward.  Do  not  depart  from  this  world,  from 
the  sight  of  Agni  and  the  Sun.,  5.  May  the  WJnd,  Matarisvan,  blow 
for  thee  ;  may  the  waters  shower  immortality  (or  ambrosia)  on  thee ; 
may  the  Sun  shine  healingly  upon  thy  body ;  may  Death  pity  thee  ; 
do  not  die.  6.  Thou  must  ascend,  o  man,'  and  not  descend ;  I  give 

C  fi  Cl       ' 

thee  life  and  perceptive  power.     Mound  this  pleasant  and  imperishable 
car,  then,  when  aged,  thou  shalt  declare  a  festival.    7.  Let  not  thy  soul 


OR  RECALL  THE  DEAD  TO  LIFE.  445 

go  away  thither,  let  it  not  disappear ;  do  not  wander  away  from  the 
living ;  do  not  follow  the  Fathers.     May  all  the  gods  preserve  thee. 

8.  Do  not  long  after  the  departed,  who  conduct  men  afar.     Ascend 
from  the  darkness ;  come  into  the  light.     "We  lay  hold  of  thy  hands. 

9.  Let  not  the  two  dogs  sent  hy  Yama,616  the  black  and  the  brindled 
[seize  thee].     Come  hither ;  tfo  not  hesitate ;  do  not  remain  here  with 
averted  mind.     1,0.  Do  not  foll»w  this  path ;  it  is  terrible ;  I  speak  of 
that  by  which  thou  hast  not  hitherto  gone.     This,  o  man,  is  darkness  ; 
do  not  enter  it.      Beyond,  thou  hast  fear ;    on  this  side,  thou  hast 
security.     11.  May  the  fires  which  are  in  the  waters  preserve  thee; 
may  the  fire  which  men  kindle  preserve  thee ;  may  Jatavedas  Vais- 
vanara  (the  fire,  which  is  common  to  all  men)  preserve  thee ;  let  not 
the  celestial  fire,  together  with  the  lightning,  consume  thee.     12.  Let 
not  the  flesh-devouring  fire617  seek  to  harm  thee ;  go  far  from  that 
wicked  one.     May  the  sky,  the  earth,  the  sun,  and  moon,  preserve 
thee;  may  the  air  protect  thee*from  the  bolt  of  the  gods.     13.  May 
"Wakeful  and  "Watchful,  may  Sleepless   and  "Wakeful  preserve  thee. 
May  Guardian   and  Vigilant   protect  thee.      14.    May  they    protect 
and  guard  thee.      To  them  be  reverence.      15.    May  Yayu,  Indra, 
Dhatri,  and  Savitri  the  deliverer,  restore  thee  to  converse  with  the 
living.     Let  not  breath  and   strength   abandon  thee  ;    we  call   back 
thy  spirit.     16.  Let  not  any  destructive  demon,  let  not  darkness  find 
thee  ....  May  the  Adityas  and  Yasus,  with  Indra  and  Agni,  raise  thee 
up  to  health.     17.  The  sky,  the  earth,  Prajapati  have  rescued  thee. 
The  plants  with  Soma  their  king,  have  delivered  thee  from  death. 
18.  Let  this  man  remain  here,  o  gods  ;  let  him  not  depart  hence  to  the 
other  world.     "We  rescue  him  from  death  with  a  charm  of  boundless 
efficacy.     19.    I  have  delivered  thee  from  death;  may  the  vigorous 
breathe  upon  thee.618     Let  not  the  she-devils  with  dishevelled  hair,  or 
those  that  howl  dreadfully,  yell  at  thee.     20.  I  have  snatched  thee ;  I 
have  caught  *thee  ;   thou  hast  returned  renewed,  and  perfect  in  thy 
members  :   I  have  obtained  thy  entire,  eye,  and  thy  entire  life.  ,21. 

« 

616  See  A.V.  v.  30,  6,  above. 

617  There  are  three  kinds  of  £re,  the  Tcravyad,  or  funeral  (here  referred  to),  which 
devours  dead  bodies,  the  culinary  (*>nad),  and  thi  sacrificial.  •  See  the  Vaj.  S.  i.  17, 
and  the  commentary  there,  and  above,  ^.  217,  note. 

818  See  the  4th  verse  of  the  next  hymn. 


446  INCANTATIONS  TO  SAVE  THE  DYING, 

[Life]  has  breathed  upon  thee.  Light  has  come  to  thee.  Darkness 
has  departed  from  thee.  We  remove  from  thee  death,  Nirriti  and 
consumption." 

(12)  Atharva-veda,  vm.  2. 

1.  Arabhasva  imam  amritasya  srmJhim  achhidyamdnd  jaradashtir 
astu  te  |  asum  te  dyuh  punar  a  bhardmi  rajas  tamo(mopagdh  ma  pra 
meshthdh  \  2.  Jlvatdm  jyotir  abhyehi  arvdn  a  tvd  hardmi  satasdraddya  \ 
avamunchan  mrityupdsdn  asastim  drdghlyah  dyuh  prataram  te  dadhdmi  \ 
3.  Vdtdt  te  prdnam  avidam  surydch  chakshur  aham  tava  \  yat  te  manas 
tvayi  tad  dhdraydmi  sam  vitsva  angair  vadajihvayd  "lapan  \  4.  Prdnena 
tvd  dvipaddm  chatushpaddm  agnim  iva  jdtam  abhi  sam  dhamdmi  \  namas 
te  mrityo  chakshushe  namah  prdndya  te  'karam  \  5.  Ayam  jlvatu  md 
mrita  imam  samlraydmasi  \  krinomi  asmai  bheshajam  mrityo  md  puru- 
sham  vadhlh  \  6.  Jlvalam  naghdrishdm  jlvantim  oshadhlm  aham  \  trdya- 
mdndm  sahamdndm  sahasvatlm  iha  hufo  asmai  arishtatdtaye  \  7.  Adhi 
bruhi  md  "ralhathdh  srijemam  tavaiva  san  sarvahdydh  ihdstu  \  Bhavd- 
sarvau  mridatam  sarma  yachhatam  apasidhya  duritam  dhattam  dyuh  \ 
8.  Asmai  mrityo  adhi  bruhi  imam  dayasva  ud  ito  ''yam  etu  \  arishtah 
sarvdngah  susruj jarasd  satahdyanah  dtmand  bhujam  asnutdm  \  9.  Devd- 
ndm  hetih  pari  tvd  vrinaktu  pdraydmi  tvd  rajasah  ut  tvd  mrityor  aplpa- 
ram  \  drdd  agnim  kravytidam  niruhan  jlvdtave  te  paridhim  dadhdmi  \  10. 
Yat  te  niydnam  rajasam  mrityo  anavadharshyam  \  pathah  imam  tasmdd 
rakshanto  brahmdsmai  varma,  krinmasi  \  11.  Krinomi  te  prdndpanau 
jardm  mrityum  dlrgham  dyuh  svasti  \  Vaivasvatena  prahitdn  yamadu- 
tdms  charato  'pa  sedhdmi  sarvdn  \  12.  Ardd  ardtim  nirritim  paro 
grdhim  kravyddah  pisdchdn  \  raksho  yat  sarvaih  durlhutam  tat  tamah 
ivapa  hanmasif>\  13.  Agnes  te  prdnam  amritdd  dyushmato  v&nve  jdta- 
vedasah  \  yathd  na  rishydh  amritah  saj'ur  asas  tat  te  krinomi  tad  u  te 
samridhyatdm  \  14.  S'ive  te  stum  Dydvdprithivl  asantdpe  alhisriyau  \ 
sam  te  suryah  d  tapatu  sam  vdto  vdtu  te  hride  \  S'ivdh  &bhi  ksharantu 
tvd*dpo  divydh  payasvatlh  \  ,15.  S'ivds  te  santv  oshadhayah  ut  tod 
"hdrsham  adharasydh  uttardm  prithivlm  abhi  \  tatra  tvd  "dityauraksha- 
tdm  Surydchandramasdv  ubhd  \  16.  Yat  te  vdsah  paridhdnam  yam 
riimih  krinushe  tram  I  sivam  te  tanve  tat  ki  inmah  samsparse  'rukshnam 

'  '  '  •       7      ' 

astu  te  |    17.    Yat   kshurena   marchaysitd  sutejasd   vaptd   vapasi   kesa- 
smasru  \  sumbhan  mukham  md  nah  dyuh  pra  moshih  \   18.  S'ivau  te  stdm 


OR  EECALL  THE  DEAD  TO  LIFE.  447 

vrlhi-yavdv  abalasdv  adomadhau  \  etau  yakshmam  vi  bddhete  etau  mun- 
chato  amhasah  \  19.  Yad  dsndsi  yat  pibasi  dhdnyam  krishydh  payah  \ 
yad  ddyam  yad  anddyam  sarvam  te  annam  avisham  krinomi  \  20.  Ahne 
cha  tvd  rdtraye  cha  ubhdbhydm  pari  dadmasi  \  ardyebhgo  jighatsubhyah 
imam  me  pari  rakshata  \  21.  Saturn  te  ayutam  hdyandn  dve  yuge  trmi 
chatvdri  krinmah  \  Indrdgril*  visve  devds  te  anumanyantdm  ahrimya- 
mdndh  |  22.  S'arade  tvd  hemanfaya  vasantdya  grlshmdya  pari  dadmasi  \ 
varshdni  tubhyam  syondni  yeshu  vardhante  oshadhlh  \  23.  Mrityur  lie 
dvipaddm  mrityur  Ise  chatushpaddm  \  tasmdt  tvdm  mrityor  gopater 
udbhardmi  sa  md  bibheh  \  24.  So  'rishta  na  marishyasi  na  marishyasi 
md  bibheh  \  na  vai  tatra  mriyante  no  yanti  adhamam  tamah  \  25.  Sarvo 
vai  tatra  jlvati  gaur  asvah  purushah  pasuh  \  yatredam  brahma  kriyate 
paridhir  jlvandya  kam  \  26.  Pari  tvd  pdtu  samdnebhyo  abhichdrdt  sa- 
bandhubhyah  \  amamrir  bhava  amrito  atijlvo  md  te  Jidsishur  asavah 
Sarlram  \  27.  Ye  mrityavah  ekasataih  ydh  ndshtrdh  atitdrydh  \  munch- 
antu  tasmdt  tvdm  devdh  aqner  vdisvanardd  adhi  I  28.  Agneh  sariram  asi 

•  «/  •  I  «7  • 

pdrayishnuh  rakshohd  'si  sapatnahd  \  atho  amlva-chdtanah  putudrur 
ndma  bheshajam  \ 

"1.  Seize  this  boon  of  immortality;  may  long  life,  which  cannot  be 
cut  off,  be  thine.  I  restore  to  thee  breath  and  life ;  do  not  depart  to 
the  mist  (rajas')  or  to  darkness  (tamas) ;  do  not  die.  2.  Come  hither 
to  the  light  of  the  living;  I  rescue  thee  that  thou  mayest  survive  a 
hundred  autumns.  Loosing  the  bands  of  death  and  imprecation,  I 
lengthen  out  thy  existence.  3.  x  have  recovered  thy  breath  from  the 
wind,  thine  eye  from  the  sun.619  I  place  in  thee  thy  soul.  Receive 
sensation  in  thy  limbs.  Speak,  articulating  with  thy  tongue.  4.  I 
blow  upon  thee  with  the  breath  of  bipeds,  and  of  quadrupeds,  as  on 
Agni  wl&n  he  is  born  (i.e.  on  fire  when  kindled).  I  have  paid  rever- 
ence, o  Death,  to  thine  eye,  and  to  thy  breath.  5.  Let  this  man  live 
and  not  die.  We  restore  him.  I  make  for  him  a  remedy.  Death,  do 
not  kill  the  ifian.  6.  I  invoke  for  his  safety  a  vivifying  .  .  .  .  ,  living 
delivering,  strong,  and  powerful  plant.  7.  Befriend  him  ;  do  not  seize 
him;  let  him  go;  though  he  is, thine  only,  let  him  abide  here  with 
all  his  strength ;  o  Bhava  and  S'arva,  be  gracious ;  grant  deliverance ; 

remove  evil  and  confer  life*  8.  Befriend  him,  Death,  pity  him  ;  let  him 

•  *  * 

619  See  above  in  the  section  on  Yama,  p.  298. 


448  INCANTATIONS  TO  SAVE  THE  DYING, 

arise.  Unharmed,  with  all  his  limbs,  hearing  perfectly,  till  his  time  of 
decay,  let  him  obtain  enjoyment  during  a  life  of  a  hundred  years.  9. 
May  the  shaft  of  the  gods  pass  thee  by ;  I  bring  thee  across  from  the  mist 
(see  v.  1);  I  have  rescued  thee  from  death.  Removing  far  away  the  flesh 
devouring  Agni,  I  draw  round  thee  a  circle  (see  B..V.  x.  18,  4)  that 
thou  mayest  live.  10.  Preserving  him  fiom  that  misty  egress  of  thine, 
o  Death,  which  no  one  may  escape  by  menaces,  we  make  prayer  a  pro- 
tection for  him.  11.  I  give  thee  thy  breaths,  death  at  thy  full  age,630 
long  life  and  health.  I  drive  away  all  the  messengers  of  Yama,  who 
roam  about,  sent  by  the  son  of  Yivasvat.  12.  We  remove  afar  Evil, 
Nirriti,  Grahi,  and  flesh-devouring  Pisachas,  and  hurl  all  wicked 
Eakshases,  as  it  were  into  darkness.  13.  I  ask  thy  life  from  the 
immortal,  living,  Agni,  Jatavedas.  I  procure  that  thou  mayest  suifer 
no  injury,  that  thou  mayest  also  be  immortal.  May  this  be  the  fortu- 
nate result.  14.  May  heaven  and  earth  in  unison  be  auspicious  and 
innocuous  to  thee.  May  the  sun  shine-  and  the  wind  blow  pleasantly 
to  thy  heart.  May  the  celestial  streaming  waters  drop  down  upon 
thee  favourably.  15.  May  the  plants  be  auspicious  to  thee.  I  have 
raised  thee  from  the  lower  to  the  upper  earth.  There  may  both  the 
sons  of  Aditi,  the  Sun  and  the  Moon,621  preserve  thee.  16.  "Whatever 
garment  for  clothing,  or  whatever  girdle  thou  makest  for  thyself,  we 
cause  it  to  be  agreeable  to  thy  body;  may  it  be  soft  to  thy  touch.  17. 
When,  as  a  barber,  thou  shavest  our  hair  and  beard  with  a  sharp  and 
cleansing  razor,  while  cleansing  our  face,  do  not  rob  us  of  our  life.  18. 
Let  the  rice  and  barley  be  auspicious  to  thee,  causing  no  consumption 
or  other  ailment.  These  two  (grains)  destroy  consumption,  and  deliver 
from  calamity.  19.  Whatever  thou  eatest  or  drinkest,  the  grain  derived 
from  husbandry,  or  liquid,  whatever  is  or  is  not  to  be  eatenj-all  that 
food  I  render  for  thee  free  from  poison.  20.  We  commit  thee  to  both 
the  Day  and  the  Night ;  preserve  him  for  me  from  the  goblins  who 
seek  to  devour  him.  21.  We  allot  to  thee  a  hundred, 'ten  thousand, 

year,s,  two,  three,  four,  ages  (yugas).622     May  Indra  and  Agni,  may  all 

< 

«8°  Compare  A.V.  xix.  24,  4,  5,  8.  " 

621  The  Moon  is  not  in  the  Vedas  generally  reckoned  among  the  Adityas.  See 
above,  p.  54  f.  „ 

623  It  would  be  difficult  to  say  Low  great  a  duration  is  here  denoted  by  this  word  ; 
but  it  must  be  one  of  great  length,  if  the  long' periods  of  years,  which  are  mentioned 
just  before,  may  be  taken  as  any  indication.  See  the  first  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  45  f. 


OK  RECALL  THE  DEAD  TO  LIFE.  449 

the  gods  regard  thee  favourably,  without  hostility.  22.  We  commit 
thee  to  autumn,  winter,  spring,  summer.  May  the  rains  be  pleasant  to 
thee,  in  which  the  plants  grow  up.  23.  Death  rules  over  bipeds ; 
death  rules  over  quadrupeds.  From  that  Death  the  ruler  I  rescue 
thee  ;  do  not  fear.  24.  Thou,  who  art  uninjured,  shalt  not  die ;  thou 
shalt  not  die ;  do  not  fear.  They  do  not  die  there ;  they  do  not  go  to 
the  nethermost  darkness,  (25)  'every  thing  lives  there,  cow,  horse,  man, 
beast,  in  the  place  where  this  prayer  is  used,  the  bulwark  of  life.  26. 
May  it  preserve  thee  from  curse  from  thy  equals  and  friends.  Be 
undying,  immortal,  long-lived  ;  let  not  thy  breaths  abandon  thy  body. 
27.  May  the  gods  deliver  thee  from  those  hundred  deaths,  from  those 
dangers  which  are  surpassable,  and  from  that  Agni  Yaisvanara  (fire  of 
the  funeral  pile  ?).  28.  Thou,  the  medicament  named  Putudru  (Butea 
frondosa),  art  the  body  of  Agni,  the  deliverer,  the  slayer  of  Eakshases, 
and  of  rivals,  and  thou  art  the  chaser  away  of  diseases." 


29 


450 


SECTION    XXIII. 

c 

BEIEF    NOTES   ON   SOCIETY   AND    LIFE  IN   THE  VEDIC   AGE,   AS 
BEPRESENTED    IN  THE   HYMNS. 

IN  the  Introductions  to  the  first  three  Volumes  of  his  translation 
of  the  Rig-veda  (vol.  i.  pp.  xl  ff. ;  vol.  ii.  pp.  xv  ff. ;  vol.  iii.  xiv  ff.), 
Irofessor  Wilson  has  adduced  from  the  hymns  a  variety  of  facts  illus- 
trative of  the  social  and  political  condition  of  the  people  of  India,  and 
of  the  advance  which  they  had  made  in  civilization  at  the  period  when 
those  hymns  were  composed.  I  propose  in  this  section  to  hring  for- 
ward such  further  particulars,  connected  with  the  same  subjects,  as  I 
have  noticed  in  the  hymns,  without  excluding  the  topics  already  eluci- 
dated by  Professor  "Wilson. 

It  is  not  only  the  facts  which  are  directly  stated  or  implied,  in 
regard  to  the  various  subjects  of  inquiry,  which  may  be  understood  as 
supplying  the  requisite  information.  References  of  a  corresponding 
character  made  to  the  gods,  their  dwellings,  dress,  ornaments,  chariots, 
weapons,  etc.,  may  (as  in  cuch  a  stage  of  religious  progress,  more 
especially,  men  frame  their  gods  after  their  own  image  magnified  and 
idealized)  be  taken  as  applicable,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  their  worshippers. 

a 
(1.)   Country  occupied  ly  the  Vedic  people,  their  villages  and  cities. 

The  country  originally  occupied  in  India  by  the  Yedic  people  was  the 
tract  watered  by  the  seven  rivers,  the  modern  Panjab  ;  but  they  gradu- 
ally^  extended  themselves  to  the  eastward  and  southward ;  and  in  R.  V. 
iv.  36,  18  reference  is  maderto  two  ecsmies  living  beyond  (i.e.  no  doubt 
east  of)  the  Sarayu  (uta  tyd  sadyah  dryd  Sarayor  Indra  pdratah  Arna- 
chitrarathd  'vadhlh}.  For  details  I  refer  to  the  second  volume  of  this 
work,  pp.  373  ff.  This  country  was  no  doubt  in  part  cultivated, 
as  we  shall  see  that  frequent  references  are  made  to  agriculture.  But 


KELIGIOUS  WORSHIP.  451 

probably  large  tracts  were  covered  by  forests,  which  are  sometimes 
referred  to.  See  the  references  to  Agni  consuming  the  woods,  above 
(p.  212) ;  and  the  hymn  to  Aranyani,  quoted  in  p.  422. 

As  in  our  own  day,  in  the  north-west  provinces  of  India  and  the 
Panjab,  the  houses,  in  places  remote  from  the  hills,  and  where  the  soil 
is  alluvial,  without  any  supply  of  stone,  were  no  doubt  constructed  of 
mud.623  Villages  (grama)  are1  mentioned  in  R.V.  i.  114,  1  (visvam 
pushtam  asmin  grume  an&turam  \  "  may  everything  in  this  village  be 
fat  and  healthy");  i.  44,  10  (asi  grameshu  avita  \  "Thou  (Agni)  art 
the  protector  in  (our)  villages");  i.  149,  4  (gavah  iva  gramam  \  "as 
cattle  come  to  a  village") ;  and  x.  146,  1  quoted  above. 

Cities  or  fortified  places  (pur)  are  also  constantly  mentioned.  In 
one  place  it  is  said  that  Indra  demolished  a  hundred  cities  of  stone  in 
favour  of  the  liberal  Divodasa,  iv.  30,  20,  that  (satam  asmanmaymam 
purdnt  Indro  vi  dsyat  \  Divoddsaya  ddsushe}.  Even  if  we  should  suppose 
this  was  a  mythological  reference  to  the  aerial  cities  of  the  Asuras 
(comp.  x.  67,  3),  it  might  be  received  as  evidence  that  they  had  as 
their  prototypes  stone-built  cities  on  the  earth,  a  circumstance  in  itself 
by  no  means  improbable  in  tracts  of  country  bordering  on  the  hills, 
where  stone  is  abundant.  Iron  cities  or  fortifications  (purah  dyaslh] 
are  mentioned  in  R.V.  i.  58,  8 ;  ii.  20,  8  ;  iv.  27,  1  ;  vii.  3,  7  ; 
vii.  15,  14;  vii.  95,  1;  viii.  89,  8;  x.  101,  8,  where  the  reference  is 
either  figurative  or  purely  fanciful  and  mythological.  Cities  with  a 
hundred  enclosures  or  fortifications  (Satalhuji]  are  referred  to  in 
i.  166,  8 ;  vii.  15,  14 ;  and  although  they  are  only  alluded  to  as  figu- 
rative expressions  of  the  means  of  protection  afforded  by  the  gods,  they 
no  doubt  suggest  the  idea  of  forts,  consisting  apparently  of  a  series  of 
concentric  walls,  as  actually  existing  in  the  country  at°the  time. 

(2)  Religious  worship. 

Let  the  reader  try,  to  conceive  himself  as  living  3000  years  ago  or 
upwards  in  the  province  of  Itfdia  whiclj  has  been  above  described. 

At  that  period  the  Indo- Aryans  had  for  some  time  been  settled  in  that 
* 

•>  •»  •» 

623  Bricks  (tshtaka)  are  frequently" mentioned  in  the  Brahmanas  as  used  for  the 
construction  of  vedis,  or  altars,  but  theyjnay  have  been  unbaked. 


452  RELIGIOUS  WORSHIP. 

region,  and  had  begun  to  consider  it  as  their  home,  though  they  were 
still  molested  by  the  barbarous  tribes  of  another  stock,  and  of  a  ruder 
religion,  who  had  been  previously  in  possession  of  the  country,  and 
naturally  looked  upon  the  intruders  with  dislike  and  dread.  Conscious 
of  their  own  superiority,  and  strong1  in  their  faith  in  the  protection  of 
their  ancestral  gods,  the  Aryans  regarded,  these  aboriginal  tribes  and 
their  savage  rites  and  character  with  abhorrence  not.unmingled  with 
apprehension.  We  shall  therefore  suppose  one  of  the  small  outlying 
village  settlements  of  the  Aryans  to  be  situated  on  the  edge  of  a  forest, 
part  of  which  has  been  cut  down,  cleared,  and  cultivated.  The  popu- 
lation has  already  multiplied  to  a  considerable  extent,  and  (as  we  shall 
see  further  on)  a  division  of  labour  has  been  long  established.  The 
more  thoughtful  and  contemplative  class  has  now  devoted  itself  to  the 
worship  of  the  gods ;  the  more  enterprizing  and  warlike  members  of  the 
community  have  assumed  authority  over  the  rest ;  the  great  mass  of 
the  people  follow  the  occupations  of  'trade  and  husbandry;  while  a 
gradually  increasing  number  of  the  adjoining  barbarians  is  becoming 
incorporated  in  the  growing  society  as  slaves  or  handicraftsmen  of  the 
lowest  description. 

Returning  home  in  the  evening  through  the  forest,  a  member  of  one 
of  the  priestly  families,  who  is  at  the  same  time  of  a  poetical  tempera- 
ment, experiences  emotions  such  as  are  sketched  in  the  hymn  to 
Aranyam,  which  is  quoted  above  in  p.  422.  Anxious  to  propitiate 
the  favour  of  the  gods,  and  to  worship  them  all  with  the  customary 
ceremonies,  he  is  frequently  found  watching  during  the  night  (not  with- 
out apprehension  of  attack  from  the  aboriginal  tribes  lurking  in  the 
adjoining  thickets,  or  from  the  howling  goblins  with  which  his  imagi- 
nation peoples  the  surrounding  darkness),  and  looking  for  the  signs  by 
which  he  supposes  the  earliest  appearance  of  the  deities  who  usher 
in  the  day  to  be  indicated.  The  hymns  which  are  addressed  to  these 
divinities,  the  two  Asvins  and  to  Ushas  (the  Dawn),  aib  least  those 
which  salute  the  arrival  of  the  latter,  do  not  .spring  from  devotion 
alone,  but  are  the  product  ,of  a  deepe  poetical  feeling,  and  a  delicate 
imaginative  power.  The  Asvins  are  the  first  to  appear,  the  time  of 
their  manifestation,  being  (as,  we  have  seen,  p.  234)  defined  as  that 
between  midnight  and  the  earliest  manifestation  of  light;  and  their 
supposed  advent  is  hailed  with  suitable  hymns.  Then,  as  the  first 


DID  THE  VEDIC  INDIANS  MAKE  IMAGES  OF  THEIR  GODS  ?     453 

streaks  of  the  ruddy  dawn  become  visible  in  the  east,  the  poet  breaks 
out  into  an  enthusiastic  burst  of  devotion  to  the  lovely  goddess  TJshas, 
who  every  morning  renews  her  youth.  Preparation  is  now  made  for  the 
birth  of  the  sacred  Agni,  who  springs  into  life  as  soon  as  the  physical 
instruments  of  his  generation  aro  brought  into  contact,  is  then  duly 
lauded  by  his  votary,  and  is  imagined  immediately  to  proceed  as  a  mes- 
senger to  summon  the  gods  to  whom  sacrifice  is  to  be  offered  by  their 
worshipper.  Soon  after  Surya  (the  sun)  shoots  up  above  the  horizon, 
darting  his  rays  across  the  firmament,  and  illuminating  everything 
with  his  splendour ;  and  receives,  under  a  variety  of  forms  or  epithets, 
the  adoration  of  the  delighted  poet.  In  the  hot  season,  when  the 
ground  has  been  parched  by  long  drought,  and  all  eyes  are  turned  to 
the  gathering  clouds  in  the  hope  that  they  will  soon  discharge  their 
watery  treasures,  Parjanya,  the  raingod,  is  besought  to  send  rain;  and 
Indra,  the  regent  of  the  firmament,  and  the  storm-gods,  the  Maruts, 
are  supplicated  to  fulfil  the  functions  which  the  imagination  of  their 
worshippers  has  assigned  to  them,  of  combating  the  malignant  demons 
of  the  atmosphere,  and  compelling  them  to  yield  up  the  waters  which 
they  keep  shut  up  in  the  clouds.  The  other  gods,  or  a  select  number 
of  them,  are  then  invoked.  Along  with  the  recitation  of  hymns  and 
prayers,  various  sorts  of  oblations  are  offered  up  at  different  periods 
of  the  day,  to  the  several  deities. 

(3)  Did  the  Vedic  Indians  make  images  of  their  gods  ? 

Professor  Miiller  (Chips  from  a  German  Workshop,  i.  38)  answers 
this  question  in  the  negative.  "  The  religion  of  the  Yeda,"  he  says, 
"knowci  of  no  idols.  The  worship  of  idols  in  Indifi  is  a  secondary 
formation,  a  later  degradation  of  the  more  primitive  worship  of  ideal 
gods."  On  the  other  hand,  Dr.  Bollensen  finds  in  the  hymns  clear 
references  t<i  images  of  the  gods  (Journal  of  the  German  Oriental 
Society,  xxii.  587  ff.).  He  writes,  "Prom  the  common  appellation  of 
the  gods  as  divo  naras,  '  men  ctf  the  sky,'  or  simply  naras  (lares  ?), 
'men,'  and  from  the  epithet  nripesas,624  'having  the  form  of  men,' 

R.V.  iii.  4,  5,  we  may  conclude  that  the  Indians  did  not  merely  in 

">  i  > 

• 

624  Professor  Koth  s.v.  says  that  according  to  Sayana  the  word  means  "having  the 
form  of  men,"  but  perhaps  signifies  "formed,  or  adorned  by  men." 


454  KINGS  AND  PEINCIPALITIES. 

imagination  assign  human  forms  to  their  gods,  hut  also  represented 
them  in  a  sensible  manner.  Thus  in  E.Y.  ii.  33,  9,  a  painted  image  of 
Kudra  is  described  :  sthirebhir  angaih  pururupah  ugrah  babhrui  Sultre- 
Ihih  pipise  hiranyaih  \  '  With  strong  limbs,  many-formed,  awful, 
brown,  he  is  painted  with  shining « golden  colours.'  K.Y.  i.  25,  13 
(where  it  is  said  of  Varuna,  that,  'wearing  a  golden  coat  of  mail,  he 
veils  himself  in  his  radiance;  spies  sifr  round  him ')„  appears  also  to 
refer  to  a  sensible  representation."  .  .  .  .  "  Still  clearer  appears  the 
reference  to  representations  in  the  form  of  an  image  in  v.  52,  15 :  nu 
manvdnah  eshdm  devdn  ascha  (the  editions  of  Professor  Miiller  and 
Aufrecht  both  read  acWia]  \  '  I  now  pray  to  the  gods  of  these  (Maruts).' 
Here  it  seems  that  the  Maruts  are  distinguished  from  their  gods,  i.e. 
from  their  images."  ....  "  Besides  the  common  expression  yapus, 
tanu,  rupa  ['body*  and  'form'],  there  is  in  the  oldest  language  one 
which  properly  denotes  an  image  of  the  gods,  viz.,  sandris."  Much 
more  is  added  in  support  of  the  same  view.  It  is  perhaps  premature 
to  attempt  to  decide  on  the  validity  of,  these  proofs  till  it  is  seen  what 
can  be  urged  on  the  opposite  side. 

(4)  Kings  and  principalities. 

Kings  are  frequently  mentioned  in  the  hymns,  i.  40,  8 ;  i.  126,  1 ; 
iii.  43,  5  ;  v.  37,  4 ;  x.  33,  4,  etc.  In  i.  85,  8,  the  Maruts  are  said  to 
be  of  awful  aspect,  like  kings  (rdjdndh  iva  tvesha-sandnsah).  The 
country  occupied  by  the  Aryas  was  no  doubt  peopled  by  various 
tribes625  and  divided  into  numerous  principalities.  In  R.V.  i.  126,  1, 
a  king  called  Bhavya  is  celebrated,  who  dwelt  on  the  banks  of  the 
Sindhu,  or  Indus  (amanddn  stomdn  pralhare  mamshd  Sindfav  adhi 
kshiyato  Bhdvyasya  \  yo  me  sahasram  amimlta  savdn  aturto  raja  iravah 
ichhamanaTi).  In  viii.  21,  18,  Chitra  and  other  chiefs  are  alluded  to  as 
living  near  the  Sarasvati  (  Chitrah  id  raja  rdjahdh  anyake  ypke  Sarasva- 
tlm  anu].  Ten  kings  are  alluded  to  as  having  fought  against  Sudas, 
vii.  3§,  3;  vii.  83,  6  if.  (see  the  1st  vol.  of  this  w6rk,  pp.  319,  323  f.). 
Numerous  names  of  kings  roccur  in  the  Big-veda.  The  meetings* 
whether  friendly  or  hostile,  of  princes  are  alluded  to,  x.  97,  6  (rdjanah 
samitdv  iva}.  In  vii.  18,  2,r  Indra  is  represented  as  living,  in  the 

629  See  Roth,  Zur  Litteratur  und  Geschichte  des  Weda,  pp.  131  ff. 


KINGS  AND  PRINCIPALITIES.  455 

society  of  his  wives  like  a  king,  or  dwelling  amid  lights,  as  a  king 
among  his  wives,  as  Sayana  explains :  (rdjeva  hijanibhih  ksheshi  eva  ava 
dyubhiK},  which  appears  to  indicate  the  existence  of  royal  polygamy. 
In  x.  40,  3,  the  Asvins  are  said  to  come  to  the  libations  like  two 
kings'  sons  (rdjaputreva  savand  Jva  gachhataK],  When  Mitra  and 
Varuna  are  represented  in  ii.  41,  5  ;  v.  62,  6,  and  vii.  88,  5  (see  above, 
p.  60),  as  occupying  a  great,  palace  with  a  thousand  pillars  and  a 
thousand  gates,  we  may  suppose  that  this  is  but  an  exaggerated 
description  of  a  royal  residence,  such  as  the  poets  had  seen.626  And 
in  the  same  way  we  may  imagine  that  the  description  of  Varuna  in 
i.  25,  10,  13  (above,  p.  59),  as  sitting  in  his  house,  arrayed  in  golden 
mail  or  raiment,  surrounded  by  his  messengers  and  exercising  sove- 
reignty, was  suggested  by  the  ceremonial  of  a  contemporary  Raja's 
court.  It  appears  from  R.V.  iv.  50,  8  (quoted  in  the  1st  vol.  of  this 
work,  p.  247),  that  it  was  regarded  as  eminently  beneficial  for  a  king 
to  entertain  a  family  priest :  »and  in  point  of  fact  we  find  that  the 
liberality  of  different  princes  to  the  rishis  or  priests  by  whom  they 
were  attended  is  celebrated  in  numerous  passages  (see  the  1st  vol.  of 
this  work,  p.  259,  and  my  article  "  On  the  relations  of  the  priests 
to  the  other  classes  of  Indian  society  in  the  Vedic  age,"  Journal  of 
the  Royal  Asiatic  Society,  for  1866,  pp.  272  ff.,  where  the  names  of 
numerous  royal  patrons  are  specified).  The  amount  and  variety  of 
the  presents  lavished  by  these  kings  upon  their  spiritual  advisers,  con- 
sisting of  cows,  sometimes  amounting  to  thousands  (v.  30,  12  ff.), 
horses,  chariots,  lumps  of  gold  (vi.  47,  23),  dresses  (dasdsvdn  dasa 
kosdn  dasa  vastrd  'dhibhojand  \  daso  hiranyapinddn  Divoddsdd  asdni- 
sham  |  dasa  raihdn  prashtimatah  katam  gdh  atharvabhyah  Asvathah 
Pdyave*  daddt\  and  elegantly-adorned  female  slaves  (^iiii.  46,  33,  adha 
syd  yoshand  mahl  pratlchl  Vaiam  A§vyam  \  adhirulcmd  <ei  niyate],  even 
although  we  should  suppose, — as  we  probably  must, — that  there  is  a 
great  amount  of  exaggeration  in  the  passages  referred  to,  viz.,  i.  126, 
1  ff.  ;  v.  27,  2 ;  v.  30,  12  ff. ;  v.  33,,8  ff. ;  v.  61,  10  ;  vi.  27,  8,;  vi. 
47,  22  ff. ;  vi.  63,  9  f.  ;  vii.  18,  22  ff.  ;  yiii.  3,  21  ff.  ;  viii.  4,  19  ff. ; 
\iii.  5,  37  ffs;  viii.  6,  46  ff. ;  viii.  19,  36  f. ;  viii.  21,  17  f. ;  viii.  24, 

29  f. ;  viii.  46,  21  ff.  ;  viii.  54,  10  ff.  ;   viii.  57,  14  :  x.  33,  4  ff.  ;  x. 

' 
826  A.V.  iii.  12,  and  ix.  3  contain  prayers  for  the  stability  of  a  house  at  the  time  of 

its  construction. 


456  KINGS  AND  PRINCIPALITIES. 

62,  6  ff.  ;  x.  93,  14  f.,  is  still  a  proof  that  very  considerable  wealth 
was  possessed  by  these  princes.  One  chieftain,  Kas*u,  son  of  Chedi, 
is  even  said  to  have  given  to  the  rishi  ten  kings,  brilliant  as  gold,  viii. 

5,  38  (yo  me  hiranya-sandriso  dasa  rdjno  amamhata}. 

Towards  the  close  of  the  Big-veda  1^wo  hymns  occur  (x.  173  and  174) 
in  which  blessings  are  invoked  on  a  king.  I  ohall  quote  the  first,  x.  173 : — 

1.  A  tvd  'hdrsham  antar  edhi  dhruva^  tishthdvichdchalih  \  visas  tvd 
sarvdh  vdnchantu  md  tvad  rdshtram  adhi  Ihrasat  \  2.  Jhaivaidhi  mdpa 
chyo&hthdh  parvatah  ivdchdchalih  \  Indrah  iveha  dhruvas  tishtha  iha 
rdshtram  u  dhdraya  \  3.  Imam  Indro  adldharad  dhruvaih  dhruvenar 
havishd  \  tasmai  Somo  adhi  Iraval  tasmai  u  Brahmanaspatih  \  4.  Dhruvd 
dyaur  dhruvd  prithivl  dhruvdsah  parvatah  ime  \  dhruvaih  visvam  idam 
jagad  dhruvo  raja  visdm  ay  am  \  5.  Dhruvam  te  raja,  Varuno  dhruvam 
devo  Brihaspatih  \  dhruvam  te  Indras  cha  Agnis  cha  rdshtram  dhdraya- 
tdm  dhruvam  \  6.  Dhruvam  dhruvena  havishd  abhi  Somam  mrisdmasi  \ 
atho  te  Indrah  kevallr  visa  lalihritas  Ttarcci  \ 

;<  I  have  brought  thee  forward ;  remain  in  the  midst ;  continue  firm 
and  immovable  ;  may  all  thy  subjects  desire  thee  !  may  thy  dominion 
not  fall  away  from  thee  !  2.  "Remain  here ;  do  not  fall ;  continue  im- 
movable as  a  mountain ;  abide  here  as  firm  as  Indra ;  support  here  the 
realm.  3.  Indra  with  a  firm  oblation  has  held  him  firm ;  may  Soma, 
may  Brahmanaspati,  take  his  part.  4.  Firm  is  the  sky,  firm  the 
earth,  firm  these  hills,  firm  is  the  whole  world,  and  this  prince  is  a 
firmly-established  king  over  his  subjects.  5.  May  king  Varuna,  may 
the  divine  Brihaspati,  may  Indra  and  Agni  firmly  maintain  thy  rule  ! 

6.  "We  urge  the  firm  Soma  with  a  firm  oblation.    And  now  may  Indra 
make  thy  subjects  devoted  to  thee  alone,  and  bringers  of  tribute." 

Mention  is  alpo  made  of  rulers  or  governors  under  the  title  of  pur- 
pati,  lord  of  a  city  or  fortified  place  (i.  173,  10),  and  gramam  ruler  of 
a  village,  or  tribe,  or  band  of  men.  The  latter  word  occurs  in  x.  62, 
1 1 :  sahasraddh  grdmanlr  ma  rishan  manuh  suryendsya  yatamdnd  etu 
dakshind  \  "Let  not  this  man  (Savarni),  the  leader  of  the  people,  suffer 
calamity:  let  his  largess  extend  to  the  sun;"627  and  in  x.  107,  5, 
dakshindvdn  grdmanlr  agram  eti  \  "The  bestower  of  largesses  walks 
in  the  front  as  a  leader"  (see  above,  p.  434). 

627  See  the  context  in  my  paper  on  the  priests  in  the  Vedic  age,  Jour.  K.A.S.  for 
1866,  p.  276. 


DOMESTIC  RELATIONS  AND  LIFE  AND  MORALS.  457 

(5)  Different  ranks  in  society ', — rich  and  poor. 

•A.S  may  be  concluded  from  the  facts  already  stated,  we  find  in  the 
hymns  a  distinct  reference  to  rich  and  poor  as  existing  in  the  com- 
munity. See  R.Y.  x.  117,  qifoted  above  in  page  431,  where  the 
existence  of  both  classes  is  distinctly  recognized,  and  liberality  on  the 
part  of  the  wealthy  is  recommended.  In  x.  107,  10;  the  house  of  the 
donor  of  largesses  is  compared  to  a  lotus  pond,  and  is  said  to  be  em- 
bellished like  a  palace  of  the  gods  (above,  p.  434,  and  compare  x.  135, 
7).  In  viii.  4,  9,  the  man  who  is  a  friend  of  Indra  is  said  to  have 
horses,  chariots,  cows  ;  to  be  handsome,  to  enjoy  vigorous  vitality,  and 
to  come  resplendent  into  the  assembly  (asvl  rathl  surupah  id  gomdn  id 

Indra,  te  saJchd  \  svdtrabhdjd  vayasa  sachate  sadd  chandro  ydti  sabhdm 
upa]. 

,  (6)  Domestic  relations  and  life  and  morals. 

There  are  in  the  hymns  distinct  traces  of  the  existence  of  polygamy, 
though  it  was  no  doubt  the  exception,  and  monogamy  the  rule.  In 
some  places  the  husband  appears  to  be  described  as  having  only  one 
wife,  if  we  may  judge  from  the  fact  that  the  latter  is  mentioned  in  the 
singular.  Thus  in  i.  124,  7,  Ushas  is  said  to  display  her  form,  as  if 
smiling,  as  a  loving  and  well-dressed  wife  does  to  her  husband  (Jdya 
iva  patye  usatl  suvdsdh  Ushdh  hasrd  iva  ni  rinite  apsah  ;  compare  iv.  3, 
2,  and  x.  71,  4).  And  in  i.  105,  2,  it  is  said  d  jay  a  yuvate  patim  \ 
"The  wife  embraces  her  husband."  In  other  places  a  plurality  of 
wives  is  more  or  less  distinctly  intimated.  Thus  in  i.  62,  11  :  patim 
na  patnlr  usatlr  usantam  sprisanti  tva  savasdvan  rnanlshah  \  "  Our 
hymns  t'ouch  thee,  o  strong  god,  as  loving  wives  a  losing  husband;" 
i.  71,  1  :  upa  pra  jinvann  usatlr  usantam  patim  na  nityam  janayah 
sanlldh  |  svasdrah  \  "  The  loving  sisters  [i.e.  fingers]  have  stirred  up 
the  loving  [Agni],  as  wives  dwelling  together  their  own  husbands;"628 
i.  105,  8  (=x.  33,  2\:  sam  ma  tapanfy  abhitah  sapatnlr  iva  parsavah  \ 
11  My  ribs"  (or,  according  to  th«  Nirukta^and  Sayana,  the  sides  of  the 
well)  "  press , painfully  on  me  all  around,  like  rival  wives  (literally, 
* 

628  I  should  observe  that  hoth  ISayana  and  Hofessor  BeiJfey  construe  the  epithet 
sanllah  "dwelling  together,  or  in  one  house"  with  svasarah  "  the  sisters,"  and  not 
with  janayah  "wives." 


458  DOMESTIC  EELATIONS  AND  LIFE  AND  MORALS. 

co- wives) ;"  i.  186,  7:  tarn  Im  giro  janayo  na  patnlh  suralhishtamam 
nor  dm  nasanta  \  "  Hymns  haste  to  him  the  most  pleasing  of  heroes,  as 
women  who  are  wives ; "  vii.  26,  3 :  janlr  iva  patir  ekah  samdno  ni 
mamrije  purah  Indrah  su  sarvdh  \  "Indra  took  to  him  all  the  cities,  as 
(one)  common  hushand  his  wives ; "  «x.  43,  1  :  pari  shvajante  janayo 
yathd  patim  \  "  [The  hymns]  embrace  [Indra]  as  wives  a  husband." 
The  S'atap.  Br.  ix  1,  4,  6,  distinctly  avo\vs  the  principle  of  polygamy, 
and  states  the  origin  of  the  practice  after  its  own  fashion :  Pumse  purva- 
smai  juhoti  atha  strlbhyah  \  pumdmsam  tad-vlryena  atyddadhdti  \  ekas- 
mai  iva  pumse  julioti  bahvlbhyah  iva  strlbhyah  \  tasmdd  apy  eliasya- 
pumso  bahvyojdydh  bhavanti  \  ubhdbhydm  vashatlcdrena  cha  svdhdlcarena 
cha  pumse  juhoti  svdhdlcarena  eva  stribhyah  \  pumdmsam  eva  tad-vlryena, 
atyddadhdti  \  "  He  sacrifices  to  the  man  first,  then  to  the  women.  He 
exalts  the  man  in  consequence  of  his  vigour.  He  sacrifices  to  the  man 
as  to  one,  and  to  the  women  as  to  many.  Hence  also  one  man  has 
many  wives.  He  sacrifices,  to  the  man  footh  with  the  vashatkara  and 
the  svahakara,  to  the  women  with  the  latter  alone.  He  exalts  the 
man  in  consequence  of  his  vigour."  It  seems  to  have  been  considered 
a  misfortune  for  a  woman  to  be  left  an  old  maid  in  her  father's  house 
(see  the  case  of  Ghosha,  above,  p.  247).  It  would  lead  me  too  far  to 
attempt  to  give  any  description  of  the  marriage  ceremonial,  for  which 
I  must  refer  the  reader  to  "Weber's  Indische  Studien,  v.  177  if.  (see 
also  K.V.  x.  109).  "Women  appear  to  have  been  permitted  to  marry 
a  second  time,  according  to  A.Y.  ix.  5,  27  f.,  quoted  above,  in  the 
section  on  Yama,  p.  306  (see  also  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  281  ff.). 
In  i.  124,  7,  Ushas  is  said  to  show  herself,  as  a  female,  without  a 
brother  (her  natural  protector),  is  said  to  show  herself  to  a  man  (abhrd- 
teva  pumse  eti  £ratichl}.  "Wicked  liars  are  compared,  in  iv.  "o,  5,  to 
women  without  brothers,  and  evil- disposed  wives  hostile  to  their  hus- 
bands (abhrdtaro  na  yoshano  vyantah  patiripo  na  janayo  durevdh  \  pdpd- 
sah  santah  anritdh  asatydh  idam  padam  ajanata  gabhlram}. 

Tho  eleventh  and  twelfth  verses  of  E.V.  x.  27,  are  as  follows : — 

^ 

yasydnakshd  duhitd  jdtu  dsa  leas  tdm  vidvdn  abhimanyeta  andhdm  \ 
Icataro  menim  prati  tarn  muchdte  yah  Im  vahdte  yah  Im  vdpareydt  \  12. 
liiyatl  yoshd  maryato  vadhuyoh  pariprltd  'panya&d  vdryena  \  bhadrd 
vadhur  bhavati yat  supesdh  svayam  sd  mitram  vanutejane  chit  \  11.  "Who 
knowingly  will  desire  the  blind  daughter  of  any  man  who  has  one  ? 


DOMESTIC  RELATIONS  AND  LIFE  AND  MORALS.  459 

Or  who  will  hurl  a  javelin  at  him  who  carries  off  or  woos  such  a 
female?  12.  How  many  a  woman  is  satisfied  with  the  great  wealth 
of  him  who  seeks  her  !  Happy  is  the  female  who  is  handsome  :  she 
herself  loves  [or  chooses]  her  friend  among  the  people."  May  we  not 
infer  from  this  passage  that  freedom  of  choice  in  the  selection  of 
their  husbands  was  allowed^  sometimes,  at  least,  to  women  in  those 
times  ?  The  Sv,ayanivara,  or  selection  of  ther  own  husbands  by  kings' 
daughters,  appears,  from  the  Mahabharata,  to  have  been  a  common  prac- 
tice in  later  times.  See  the  well-known  story  of  Nala  and  Damayantl. 
•>  A  passage  has  been  quoted  above  (p.  82  note)  from  the  Taitt.  Br. 
ii.  4,  2,  7,  the  commencement  of  which,  though  not  altogether  clear, 
may  be  translated  thus:  "The  divine  and  fortunate  Indrani,  wife  of 
an  excellent  husband,  was  victorious  by  a  part,  in  the  acquisition  of  a 
husband."  Did  young  women  at  that  time  compete  for  husbands  ? 

The  following  allusion  to  the  relations  of  a  widow  with  her  deceased 
husband's  brother  occurs  in  adverse  addressed  to  the  Asvins,  x.  40,  2 
(=Mr.  iii.  15) :  Kuha  svid  doshd  kuka  vaster  Asvind  Icuhdbhipitvam 
karatah  kuhoshatah  \  ko  vdm  sayutrd  vidhaveva  devaram  maryam  na 
yoshd  krinute  sadasthe  d  \  f<  Where  are  you  by  night,  As"vins,  and 
where  by  day  ?  where  do  you  alight  ?  where  have  you  dwelt  ?  who 
draws  you  to  his  house,  as  a  widow  does  her  brother-in-law  to  the 
couch,  or  as  a  woman  does  a  man  ?"  In  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta, 
p.  32,  Professor  Roth  refers,  in  elucidation  of  this  comparison,  to  Manu, 
ix.  69,  70,  where  it  is  enjoined  that  in  certain  circumstances  a  widow 
shall  be  married  to  her  deceased  husband's  brother.  In  verse  60  it 
is  ruled  that  the  union  shall  only  subsist  until  one  son  has  been  pro- 
created. It  will  thus  be  seen  that  the  ancient  law  of  India  corre- 
sponded* in  this  respect  with  that  of  the  Jews,  as  expounded  in  Deu- 
teronomy, xxv.  5  :  compare  St.  Matthew,  xxii.  24  ff.  This  custom 
appears  to  be  referred  to  in  the  somewhat  obscure  verse  before  us. 

By  the  kindness  of  Professor  Max  Miiller  I  am  enabled  to  give 
Sayana's  explanation  of  the  verse : — Jfmcha  vam  yuvdih  ko  yajamdnah 
"  sadhasthe"  sahasthdne  vedy-akhye  "  ajcrinute"  \  paricharandrtham 
dtmdlhimukhlkaroti  \  tatra  drishtdntam  dariayati  \  "sayutrd"  sayane 
"vidhaveva"  yathd  mritalhartrikd  ndrl^" devaram"  Ihartrilhrdtaram 
alihimukJilkaroti  \  "maryam  na'*  yathd  cha  sarvam  manushyam  " yoshd'* 
sarvd  ndrl  sambhoga-kdle  'bhimukhlkaroti  tadvad  ity  arthah  \  "  what 


I 
460  DOMESTIC  RELATIONS  AND  LIFE  AND  MOEALS. 

worshipper  places  you  in  his  own  presence  at  the  altar  to  serve  you  ? 
He  illustrates  this.  As  a  woman  whose  husband  is  dead  places  her 
husband's  brother  before  her  on  the  bed,  or  a  woman  at  the  time  of 
sexual  connection  places  a  man  before  her."  Then  follows  a  quotation 
from  the  Nirukta  iii.  15,  on  the  same  Verse. 

On  the  occasion  of  the  marriage  ceremonial,  a  wish  is  expressed  in 
the  bride's  favour  that  she  may  be  a  quetn  over  her  father-in-law,  her 
mother-in-law,  her  husband's  sister,  and  his  brothers,  x.  85,  46  (samrdjni 
ivasure  bhava  samrdjni  ivasrvdm  bhava  \  nanandari  samrdjni  bhava  sam- 
rdjni adhi  devrisliu).  In  viii.  2,  20  reference  is  made  to  an  unamiable  son-» 
in-law  (asrlrah  ivajdmdtd")  •  but  it  is  not  very  clear  what  he  is  intended 
to  illustrate.  In  i.  109,  2,  the  poet  says  he  has  heard  that  Indra  and 
Agni  are  more  liberal  than  an  inferior  son-in-law,  or  a  wife's  brother 
(asravam  hi  bhuriddvattard  vam  vijamatur  uta  vd  aha  syuldf].  Yaska 
(Nir.  vi.  9)  explains  the  word  vijamatri  of  a  person  who  is  not  complete 
in  all  necessary  requisites  {asusamdptdfjdmdtuK)  ;  and  adds  that  the 
people  of  the  south  always  speak  of  this  word  as  denoting  a  man  who 
has  purchased  his  wife  (vydmdtd  iti  £asvad  dakshindjdh  krltdpatim 
dchakshate  \  asusamdptah  iva  varo  'bhipretah). 

Allusions  to  conjugal  infidelity  and  sexual  immorality  are  not 
wanting.  In  x.  34,  4,  reference  seems  to  be  made  to  the  gambler's 
wife  being  the  object  of  other  men's  intrigues  (anyejdydm  pari  mrisanti 
asya  yasya  agridhad  vedane  vtijl  akshah  \  see  above,  p.  426).  In 
x.  40,  6,  mention  is  made  of  a  woman  resorting  to  her  rendezvous 
(nishkritam  na  yoshana']  comp.  x.  34,  5  (nishkritam  jdrinl  ^w)629  which, 
if  a  married  woman  is  meant,  implies  an  adulterous  connection.  In 
ii.  29,  1,  Mitra  and  Varuna  are  prayed  to  remove  the  worshipper's 
sin,  as  a  womEfii  who  bears  a  child  secretly  puts  it  away  (are  mat 
karta  rahasur  ivdgaK).*30  In  i.  167,  4,  we  find  the  words  para  subkrdh 

629  These  words  (nishkritam  na  yoshana]  prove  either  conjugal  infidelity,  if  yoshana 
or  jarynl  mean  a  married  woman,  or  if  they  refer  to  an  unmarried  female,  it  would 
shew  that  young  lovers  made  assignations,  and  therefor^  that  women  had  more 
liberty,  and  were  not  confined  as  ki  later  time's.     In  i.  167,  3,  occur  the  words  guha 
eharanti   manusho  na  yosha   \   "  Like  a  man's  wife  moving   or  acting  secretly." 
Sayana,  however,  refers  them  only  to  the  privacy  of  the  female  apartments.     See 
"Wilson  in  loco.  *  '  « 

630  See  Professor  "Wilson's  translation  and  note  in  loco,  and  Introduction  to  vol.  ii. 
p.  xvii. 


DRESS,  ORNAMENTS,  ETC.  461 

aydso  yavyd  sddhdranyeva  Maruto  mimikshuh  \  which  Professor  Wilson, 
following  Sayana,  renders  "  The  radiant,  ever-moving,  Maruts  have 
mingled  with  (their)  associate  (lightning),  like  (youths)  with  common 
women."  The  words  are  quoted  by  Professor  M.  Miiller,  translation 
of  R.V.  i.  176,  but  without  any  explanation  on  the  point  under  con- 
sideration. 

In  ix.  67,  1C,  ff.  the  poet  p^'ays,  and  twice  repeats  the  prayer,  that 
Pushan  would  protect  him  in  all  his  goings,  and  provide  him  with  a 
supply  of  damsels  (avitd  no  ajdsvah  Pushd  ydmani  ydmani  d  bhakshat 
kanydsu  nah  |  11.  ay  am  somah  Jcapardine  ghritam  na  pavate  madhu  \  d 
bhakshat  kanydsu  nah  \  12.  ay  am  te  dghrine  suto  ghritam  na  pavate 
suchi  |  d  bhakshat  kanydsu  nah).  The  general  opinion  of  the  poet's 
contemporaries  in  regard  to  the  female  sex  appears  to  be  intimated  in 
the  following  words  put  into  the  mouth  of  Indra,  viii.  33,  17.  Indrai 
chid  gha  tad  abravit  striydh  asdsyam  manah  \  uto  aha  kratum  raghum  \ 
"  Indra  declared  that  the  mind  of  a  woman  was  ungovernable  and  her 
temper  fickle." 

In  Yalakhilya  8,  3,  mention  is  made  of  a  gift  of  one  hundred  slaves 
(satam  ddsdn  ati  srajah).  In  E.V.  viii.  46,  32,  Professor  Roth  con- 
jectures (s.v.  ddsa)  that  the  correct  reading  is  satam  ddsdn  \  "  I 
received  a  hundred  slaves."  (See  my  article  on  the  priests  in  the 
Vedic  age,  Jour.  R.A.S.  for  1866,  p.  275).  Compare  the  word  ddsa- 
pravarga  in  R.V.  i.  92,  8,  quoted  above  in  p.  184,  and  translated 
in  p.  186. 

As  regards  the  morals  of  the  people,  in  other  respects  than  those 
which  relate  to  the  relations  of  the  sexes,  it  may  be  mentioned  that 
untruth  is  condemned  in  a  verse  already  quoted,  iv.  5,  5,  and  the 
gods  are  said  (1.  152,  1 ;  vii.  49,  3 ;  vii.  84,  2)  to  puflish  lying.  Fre- 
quent mention  is  made  of  the  friendship  borne  by  the  gods  to  their 
votaries,  which  seems  to  imply  the  existence  of  a  similar  special  re- 
lation of  affection  between  some  of  their  worshippers.  See  also  hymn 
x.  71,  translated  in  tjie  third  volume  of  this  work,  p.  256.  In  x\  117 
(as  I  have  already  noticed,  p.  45f )  beneficence  to  the  poor  is  commended. 

(7)  Dress,  ornaments ,  etc. 

>  «  > 

References   are  made   in  various    places  to   well-dressed   females, 

iv.  3,  2  ;  x.  71,  4  (jdyeva  patye  usatl  suvdsdh] ;  x.  107,  9,  or  to  elegant, 


462  DRESS,  ORNAMENTS,  ETC. 

• 

well-made  garments,  v.  29,  15  (vastreva  bhadrd  suTcrita).  From  these 
passages  and  others  relating  to  jewels,  as  in  viii.  46,  33,  quoted  above, 
p.  455,  we  may  gather  that  considerable  attention  was  already  paid 
to  personal  decoration.  We  derive  from  them  no  information  regarding 
the  shape  or  materials  of  the  clothing*worn,  further  than  may  be  learnt 
from  the  mention  of  sheep  and  of  wool  ih  certain  texts  (as  i.  126,  7  ; 
vi.  15,  16;  x.  75,  8).  But  it  is  difficult  to  conceive  that  cotton 
(which,  as  I  learn  from  Professor  J.  H.  Balfour,  is  supposed  to  have  been 
indigenous  in  India),  though  not  mentioned  in  the  hymns,  should  have 
been  unknown  when  they  were  composed,  or  not  employed  for  weaving 
the  light  cloth  which  is  necessary  in  so  warm  a  climate.  The  form  of 
the  garments  was  probably  much  the  same  as  among  the  modern 
Hindus,  unless  it  be  that  some  innovations  may  have  been  introduced 
by  the  Mohammedans.  A  turban  or  head-dress  (usJimsJta]^1  is  men- 
tioned in  the  A.V.  xv.  2,  1. 

Two  of  the  Vedic  deities,  Eudra  antf  Pushan,  are  said  to  wear  their 
hair  wound  or  braided  spirally  upwards  into  the  form  of  a  shell,  as 
-the  word  "kapardin"  in  E.Y.  i.  114,  1,  5  ;  vi.  55,  2 ;  and  ix.  67,  11,  is 
explained  in  the  dictionary  of  Professors  Bohtlingk  and  Koth ;  and  in 
vii.  83,  8,  the  same  epithet  is  applied  to  the  Tritsus  (the  tribe  to 
which  Vasishtha  belonged)  (svityancho  yatra  namasd  kapardinah  feit- 
savaK}.^  In  x.  114,  3,  a  young  female,  handsome  and  brilliant  (it 
does  not  clearly  appear  who  she  is,  as  the  passage  is  obscure  and 
enigmatical)  is  said  to  wear  four  of  these  braids  (chatushkapardd 
yuvatih  supesah  ghritapratikd  vayundni  vaste).  And  in  vii.  33,  1,  the 
priests  of  the  family  of  Vasishtha  are  said  to  have  their  hair-knots  on 
the  right  of  their  heads  and  to  be  robed  in  white  (svityancho  md 
dakshinatas-kap&rdah  ityddi;  comp.  vii.  83,  8  already  quotecf).633  In 
various  passages  already  cited  (pp.  149  f.)  the  Maruts  are  said  to 
wear  different  sorts  of  ornaments,  which  were  probably  similar  to  what 
were  worn  by  the  poet's  countrymen  or  countrywomen. 

t 

431  In  regard  to  the  word  s'ipra^ee  above,  p.  149. 

632  See  the  rude  picture  of  the  god  S'iva  at  the  beginning  of  the  Bombay  edition  of 
the  Linga  Purana.     But  "Wilson  s.v.  kaparda,  explains  it  merely  as '"  braided  hair." 
«33  See  Roth  Zur  Lit/,  u.  Geschiohte  des  "Weda*  p.  120. 


FOOD  AND  DRINK.  463 

• 

(8)  Food  and  drink. 

Jn  the  Rig-veda  (see  i.  23,  15 ;  i.  66,  3  ;  i.  117,  21,  etc.)  frequent 
mention  is  made  of  yava,  which  in  later  Sanskrit  means  barley ;  but 
according  to  the  Lexicon  of  _  Messrs.  Bb'htlingk  and  Eoth,  s.v.  appears 
to  have,  in  early  times,  denoted  corn  in  general.  Rice  (vrlhi)  according 
to  the  same  authority  is  not  referred  to  in  the  Rig-veda,  but  is  named 
in  the  Artharva-veda,  as  well  as  barley,  and  masha  (beans)  and  tila 
(sesamum  orientale);  see  vi.  140,  2  (vrlhim  attain  yavam  attam  atho  md- 
'sham  atho  tilam).  Parched  corn  (dhdna)  is  mentioned  in  several  places 
of  the  R.V.,  as  i.  16,  2  ;  iii.  35,  3  ;  iii.  52,  5  ;  vi.  29,  4,  as  an  offering  to 
the  gods ;  and  in  iii.  35,  7,  is  said  to  be  provided  as  food  for  Indra's 
horses.  Cakes  (apupa)  and  meal  mixed  with  curds  or  butter  (karam- 
Iha)  are  said  to  be  offered  to  the  gods,  iii.  52,  7;  vi.  57,  2.  Fruit 
(phala)  is  mentioned  in  iii.  45,  4  (see  above,  p.  107) ;  i.  146,  5. 
Plants  (oshadhi,  virudh}  are  frequently  alluded  to,  and  are  even  invoked 
vi.  49,  14;  vii.  34,  23;  vii.  35,  5;  x.  97,  1  ff.,  where  some  of  them 
are  spoken  of  as  produced  three  ages  before  the  gods;  verse  1  [yah 
osJiadhlh  purvdh  jdtdh  devebhyas  triyugam  purd]  ;  and  are  said  in  verse 
4  to  be  divine  [devlh~\  ;  in  verses  3  and  15  to  be  some  of  them  flowering 
and  productive  and  fruit-bearing,  and  others  not  \_pushpavatlh  prasu- 
varlh  |  yah  phalinlr  yah  aphaldh  apuslipdh  yds  cha  pU8hpiniK\,  and  in 
verses  11  and  12  to  drive  away  disease.  Medicaments  (Woeshaja)  are  also 
frequently  referred  to.  The  cutting  up  of  flesh,  apparently  for  sacri- 
ficial purposes,  is  mentioned  in  one  place,  i.  161,  10  (mdmsatn  ekah 
pimsati  sunayd  "bhritam}.  In  i.  164,  43  reference  is  made  to  the 
cooking  of  a  bull  as  being  a  primeval  institution  (ultshdnam  prisnim 
apacTianta  vlrds  tdni  dharmdni  prathamdni  dsan  \  comp.  x.  27,  2 ;  x. 
28,  S).633  In  v.  29,  7;  viii.  12,  8;  viii,  66,  10,  mention  is  made  of 
the  gods  cooking  or  eating  large  numbers  of  buffaloes  (see  above, 
p.  90).  From  the  fact  of  these  animals  being  offered  in  sacrifice,  it 
may  perhaps  be  inferred  that  they  "also  formed  a  portion  of  human 
food.  Intoxicating  liquors  are* mentioned  in  the  hymns.  As  regards 


631  See  the  "general  note"  appended  to  Sir  'VV.  Jones's  translation  of  Manu  ;  and 
Manu  xi.  59,  where  gobadha  is  mentioned  as  an  upapataka,  or  minor  sin.  See  also 
verse  108. 


464  PROFESSIONS  AND  TRADES. 

the  soma-juice,  see  above,  p.  89,  note  169.  "Wine,  surd,  (though  it  does 
not  appear  from  what  material  it  was  distilled)635  was  also  in  use,  as 
appears  from  several  passages  already  quoted,  viz.  i.  116,  7  (p.  246) 
and  vii.  86,  6  (p.  66) ;  and  x.  107,  9  (p.  434).  It  is  also  mentioned 
in  viii.  2,  12,  hritsu  pltdso  yudhyante>durmaddso  na  surdydm  \  "  When 
drunk  they  (the  soma-draughts)  contend  in  thy  stomach,  as  men  mad- 
dened with  wine."  Swillers  of  wine$  surasvah,  are  mentioned  in 
viii.  21,  14,  as  we  have  seen  above  (p.  112,  note  201).  In  i.  191,  10, 
we  find  the  following  words  :  Surye  visham  a  sajdmi  dritim  suravato 
grille  \  "I  place  the  poison  in  the  sun,  like  a  [wine]skin  in  the  house 
of  a  keeper  of  wine."  See  also  Yaj.  Sanh.  xix.  5,  7;  S'atap.  Br.  xii. 
7,  3,  8,  and  12;  xii.  8,  1,  16  ;  commentary  on  Vaj.  S.  xix.  44;  and 
A.Y.  xiv.  1,  35  f.  (translated  in  Weber's  Ind.  Stud.  v.  197).  In 
regard  to  the  light  in  which  wine  drinking  was  regarded  in  later  times 
the  reader  may  consult  Manu,  xi.  54,  90,  93-97,  148  f.,  249. 

(9)  Professions  and  trades. 

In  E.Y.  ix.  112,  as  we  have  already  seen  (p.  424),  the  variety  in 
men's  tastes  and  pursuits  is  described,  and  some  of  their  different  occu- 
pations are  mentioned,  viz.,  those  of  carpenter,  physician,  priest,  black- 
smith (compare  x.  72,  2),  poet,  and  female  grinder  of  corn.  That  £nan 
is  said  to  be  a  skilled  physician,  and  both  a  slayer  of  Rakshases  and  a 
repeller  of  diseases,  by  whom  all  plants  are  collected,  like  kings  in  an 
assembly,  x.  97,  6  (yatraushadhlh  samagmata  rdjdnah  samitdv  iva,  \ 
viprah  sa  uchyate  Ihishag  rahhohd  'mlva-chdtanah}.  The  construction 
of  chariots  is  often  alluded  to,  and  the  skill  shown  in  the  composition 
of  hymns  is  described  as  a  fabrication,  and  compared  to  the  ar^b  of  the 
carriage-builder)  i.  61,  4;  i.  62,  13  ;  i.  130,  6  ;  i.  171,  2  ;  ii.  19,  8  ; 
ii.  35,  2;  iv.  16,  20;  v.  2,  11;  v.  29,  15;  v.  73,  10;  vi.  32,  1;  x. 
39,  14,  etc.  (see  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  233,  235  f.,  241).  The 
Eibhus  are,  as  we  have  already  seen  (p.  226),  celebrated  for  their 
ability  as  workers  in  wood  an6.  metal,  which  'further  indicates  the 
existence  and  appreciation  *bf  such  skill  at  the  period  in  question. 
Skill  in  the  manufacture  of  weapons  of  war  and  other1  sharp-edged 
*  i  * 

635  In  Manu  xi.  94,  it  is  said  to  be  of  three  kinds,  gaudl,  paiskfi,  madhvl,  distilled 
from  molasses,  meal,  or  the  flowers  of  the  madhu  plant. 


PROFESSIONS  AND  TRADES.  465 

implements  must  hare  been  common,  as  spears  (vast},  swords  or  knives 
(<m),  axes  (paraSu,  svadhiti\  are  constantly  mentioned,  i.  162,  20; 
x.,79,  6  ;    x.  86,  18  ;    ix.  96,  6  ;    i.  127,  3  ;    vii.  104,  21  ;    X;  28,  8  ; 
x.  53,  9;  yi.  3,  5  ;  vi.  47,  10;  viii.  91,  19.     "Weaving,  it  is  scarcely 
necessary  to   say,   was   universally  practised,  as  we  learn  from   the 
references  already  quoted  to  cloth,  and  from  the  metaphorical  use  of 
the  verb  ve,  ''to  weave,"  for  the  composition  of  hymns,  etc.     Thus  in 
i.  61,  8  :  (devapatriir  Indrdya  arkam  ahihatye  uvuh  \  "The  wives  of  the 
gods  wove  a  hymn  to  Indra  on  his  slaughter  of  Ahi),"  vii.  33,  9  and  12 
(see  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  247) ;  x.  130,  1  (ibid.  p.  277  f.). 
The  warp  and  woof  (tantu  and  otu]  are  both  mentioned  in  vi.  9,  1  and 
2:  ndham  tantum  na  mjdndmi  otum  ityddi  \  "I  know  not  the  warp 
and  I  know  not  the  woof,"  etc.     (These  two  verses  are  translated  by. 
Professor  Bejifey  in  the  Glossary  ,to  his  Sama-veda,  p.  76 ;  see  also 
A.V.  xiv.  2,  51).     The  art  of  boat-  or  ship-building  was  well  known, 
as  appears  from  the  frequent  mention  mads  of  boats  or  ships  (nau  or 
plava),  i.  116,  3;  i.  182,  5  f . ;  A-  131,  2;  ii.  39,  4;  viii.  42,  3;  viii. 
72,  3  ;  ix.  70,  10,  propelled  by  oars,  x.  101,  2  (ndvam  aritraparanlm). 
Ships  are  even  spoken  of  as  going  to  sea  (see  above,  p.  244  f.,  and 
i.  25,  7,  ndvah  samu&riyah ;  vii.  88,  3  f.).     The  Asvins  are  said  to 
hav^   conveyed  Bhujyu  in  a  ship  with  a  hundred  oars  (satdritrdm 
ndvam}.     Eope-making  also  must  have  been  practised,  as  ropes  are 
mentioned,  i.  162,  8,  or  their  absence  referred  to,  ii.  13,  9;  vii.  84,  2. 
"Working  in  leather  must  also  have  been  commorr,  as  hides  (charman, 
i.  85,  5 ;  vi.  8,  3  ;  vii.  63,  1),  and  skins  for  holding  water  or  wine  (driti} 
are  constantly  referred  to,  i.  191,  10  ;  iv.  45,  1,3;  v.  83,  7 ;  vi.  48, 
18;    vii.  89,2;    vii.   103,  2;   viii.   5,   19.     Agriculture,  as  we  have 
already 'seen   (p.  427),  is  recommended  to  the  gambter  in  x.  34,  13, 
and  in  the  hymn  to  Aranyani,  x.  146,  6  (above,  p.  423),  the  goddess 
is  said  to  be  untilled  by  husbandmen  (akrishwala).     R.V.  iv.  57,  is  a 
hymn  in  which  the  Kshetrasya  pati,  or  deity  who  is  the  protector  of 
the  soil  or  of  husbandry,  is  addressed,  and  a  blessing  is  invoked  on 
field  operations,  and  their  instruments,  and  en  the  cultivators  (kmdsa). 
Compare  x.  ,117,   7.      Urvara,  cultivated*"  and  fertile   land,  is  men- 
tioned in  various  places.    Watercourses  (l$ulyd\  wh^ch  may  or  may  not 
have  been  artificial,  are  alludefl  to  in  iii.  45,  3,  and  x.  43,  7  (sama- 
Jcsharan  somdsah  Indram  Iculydh  iva  hradatn),  as  leading  to  ponds  or 

30 


466  CRIME. 

lakes  ;  and  waters  which  are  expressly  referred  to  as  flowing  in 
channels  which  had  been  dug  up  for  them,  are  mentioned  in  vii.  49,  2 
(yah  dpo  divydh  uta  vd  sravanti  khanitrimdh  uta  vd  yah  svayamjdh} ; 
and  from  this  it  is  not  unreasonable  to  infer  that  the  irrigation  of  lands 
under  cultivation  may  have  been  practised.  In  the  Pug-veda  we  have, 
as  Professor  Miiller  observes  (Transl.  i.  223  f.),  clear  allusions  to 
shaving,  x.  142,  4,  where  Agni  is  sakl  to  shave  the  earth,  as  a 
barber  does  a  beard  (see  above,  p.  212).  In  viii.  4,  16,  as  interpreted 
by  Professor  Roth,  the  worshippers  pray  that  the  god  would  sharpen 
them  like  the  edge  of  scissors  (sam  nah  sislhi  Ihurijor  iva  kshuram}. 
On  the  prevalence  of  debt,  see  Professor  "Wilson's  observations  in  the 
Introduction  to  his  translation  of  the  Rig-veda,  vol.  ii.  p.  xvii.,  and 
compare  R.Y.  x.  34,  10,  quoted  above,  in  p.  427. 

(10)  Amusements. 

Gaming  was  a  frequent  amusement  of  "the  early  Indians,  as  we  learn 
from  the  hymn  x.  34,  which  has  been  given  at  length  above,  p.  426, 
(comp.  vii.  86,  6) ;  and  from  the  frequent  illustrations  derived  from 
the  practice;  see  i.  92,  10;  ii.  12,  4 ;  ii.  29,  5  ;  iv.  20,  3;  v.  85,  8  ; 
viii.  45,  38  ;  x.  42,  9 ;  x.  43,  5. 

Dancers,  or  actors  (nritu),  seem  to  have  afforded  entertainment  at 
the  same  period  ;  as  we  may  gather  from  i.  92,  4,  where  TJshas  is  said 
to  display  herself  like  a  professional  person  of  this  sort,  who  decks  him- 
self with  ornaments  (see  above,  p.  185).  In  x.  18,  S,636  allusion  is  made 
to  the  living  going  forth  to  dance  and  to  laugh  after  a  funeral  (prdncho 
agama  nritaye  hasdya).  Drums  (dundubhi}  are  mentioned  in  R  V.  i. 
28,  5  ;  vi.  47,  29,  31 ;  and  a  hymn  in  the  A.V.  v.  20,  is  addressed 
to  this  musical  instrument.  According  to  Professor  Roth  (see  y.v.  and 
Illustrations  of  Nirukta,  p.  92)  the  word  lakura,  which  occurs  in 
i.  117,  21  (and  is  explained  by  Sayana  as  a  thunderbolt)  probably 
means  a  martial  wind  instrument. 

(11)    Crime. 

Thieves  or  robbers  (tdyu,  taskara,  stena,  paripanthin,  mushlvan, 
huraschit}  are  mentioned  in  some  passages  as  iafesting  the  highways,  or 

636  See  Professor  Roth's  translation  of  the  verse  in  Z.  D.  M.  G.  viii.  468,  and 
Professor  Muller's  in  the  same  Journal  ix.  p.  xvi. 


ANIMALS,  TAME  OR  WILD,  MENTIONED  IN  THE  HYMNS.     467 

stealing  secretly  (see  above,  p.  174  f. ;  i.  50,  2  :  apa  tye  tdyavo  yathd 
nakshatrd  yanti  aktulhih  \  "  The  stars  depart  before  the  sun's  rays, 
like  thieves,"  i.  65,  1 ;  i.  191,  5  (ete  u  tye  praty  adrisran  pradosham 
taskardh  iva  \  "They  have  been  seen  in  the  evening  like  thieves");  ii. 
28,  10;  iv.  38,  5  (uta  sma  enani  vastramathiih  no,  tdyum  anu  krosanti 
Icshitayo  lhareshu  \  "Men  cry  after  him  in  battles  as  after  a  thief 
stealing  clothes");  v.  15,  S\  v.  52,  12;  vi.  12,  5;  vii.  55,  3;  vii. 
86,  5  :  viii.  29,  6  ;  x.  4,  6. 

(12)  Animals,  tame  or  wild,  mentioned  in  the  hymns. 

The  mention  of  kine  and  horses637  (both  in  prayers  to  the  gods  to 
bestow  them  in  abundance,  and  in  the  details  of  gifts  conferred  upon 
poets  or  priests)  is  too  frequent  to  require  further  specification.  Sheep 
(avi,  avikd,  urd,  mesha)  are  also  frequently  referred  to,  i.  43,  6 ;  i.  51,  1 ; 
i.  52,  1  ;  i.  116,  16  ;  viii.  2,»2  ;  viii.  34,  3 ;  ix.  6,  1 ;  x.  95,  3  ;  and 
goats  (a/a,  chhdga)  in  i.  162,  3  f. ;  and  x.  90,  10.  Allusion  is  made  in 
x.  27,  17  to  the  cooking  of  a  fat  ram  (plvdnam  mesham  apachanta  vlrdh}. 
In  Yalakhilya  viii.  3,  reference  is  made  to  the  gift  of  a  hundred  ewes 
(satam  urndvatinam).  In  i.  126,  7  the  ewes  of  the  Gandharis  are 
spoken  of  as  famous  for  their  wool  (romasd  Gandhdrlndm  iva  avikd] . 
Dogs  are  often  alluded  to.  In  ii.  39,  4  the  two  Asvins  are  compared 
to  two  dogs  (£vdnd  iva}.  The  mythological  dogs  of  Yama  have  been 
already  referred  to  (in  p.  294).  A  long-tongued  dog  which  brought 
no  good  is  mentioned  as  an  object  of  dread  to  be  driven  away,  ix. 
101,  1  and  13  (apa  svdnam  snathishtana  sakhdyo  dirghajihvyam  \  apa 
Svdnam  arddhdsam  hata  makham  na  Bhrigavah}.  Apes,  kapi,  (x. 
86,  5)1,  boars,  vardha  (viii.  66,  10;  x.  28,  4),  buffaloes,  mahisha  (see 
above,  p.  90  and  463),  deer,  mriga  (i.  38,  5 ;  i.  105,  8),  risya  (viii. 
4,  10),  jackals  and  foxes,  kroshtri,  lopdsa,  x.  28,  4,  and  wolves, 
sdldvrika  $s..  95,  15),  lions,  simha  (x.  28,  4;  iv.  16,  14),  wolves,  vrika, 
vrikl,  i.  116,  16;  viii.  55,  8,  as  devouring  sheep,  viii.  34>  3  (umm  na 
dhunute  vrikah),  and  deer,  i.»  105,  8  (yriko  na  trishnajam  mrigani}. 
Elephants  a^so  are  possibly  mentioned  under  the  designation  of  mriga 
vdrana  viii.  33,  8 ;  x.'  40,  4  (vdrana  being  an  elephant  in  later 

637  In  viii.  2,  2  allusion  is  made  to  be  a  horse  being  washed  in  a  river  (a$vo  na 
nikto  nadishu). 


468     ANIMALS,  TAME  OR  WILD,  MENTIONED  IN  THE  HYMNS. 

Sanskrit) ;  certainly  under  that  of  mriga  hastin  (the  wild  animal  with 
the  hand  or  trunk)  i.  64,  7;  iv.  16,  14.  These  texts  are  as  follows: 
mrigah  wa  hastinah  khddatha  vand  \  "  Ye  (Maruts),  like  elephants, 
devour  the  woods;639  iv.  16,  14:  mrigo  na  hastl  tavishlm  ushdnah 
simho  na  bhlmah  dyudhdni  bibhrat  "  [indra]  consuming  force  like  an 
elephant  :  like  a  terrible  lion,  carrying  weapons ;  viii.  33,  8  (=  S.V. 
ii.  1047) ;  ddnd  mrigo  na  vdranah  purutfid  charatham  dxdhe  \  which  is 
thus  rendered  by  Professor  Both,  s.v.  ddna,  2,  "  After  feasting  he  runs 
hither  and  thither  like  a  beast  of  prey."639  x.  40,  4:  yuvdm  mrigeva 
varana  mriganyavo  doshd  vastor  havishd  ni  hvaydmahe  \  "We  invoke 
you  twain  [Asvins]  night  and  day,  as  hunters  [seek  to  catch]  two 
wild  animals."640  In  the  first  three  of  these  passages  the  elephant 
(if  meant  in  the  third)  is  referred  to  merely  as  a  terrible  wild  beast ; 
in  the  fourth  there  is  an  allusion  to  the  hunting  of  wild  animals, 
and  if  elephants  are  intended,  we  may  perhaps  infer  that,  at  the 
period  when  that  verse  was  composed,  they  had  begun  to  be  tamed. 
There  seems  no  reason  to  doubt  that  in  A.V.  ix.  3,  17,  a  female 
elephant  is  meant  by  hastirii  :  "  Thou,  hall  (or  house),  standest 
on  the  earth  with  feet  like  a  female  elephant  "  (mitd  prithivydm 
tishthasi  hastinlva  padvatl).  The  author  of  this  verse  appears  to 
have  been  accustomed  to  look  familiarly  at  the  animal  close  ,-it 
hand.  In  the  following  verse  from  the  Aitareya  Brahmana,  viii. 
23  (quoted  by  Professor  Both  s.v.)  elephants  are  said  by  him  and 
Professor  Haug  (transl.  p.  26)  to  be  understood  by  Sayana  as  in- 
tended by  the  word  mriga :  hiranyayena  parivritdn  krishnan  sukla- 
dato  mrigdn  \  Mashndre  Bharato  'daddt  iatam  badvdni  sapta  cha  \ 
"Bharata  bestowed  in  Mashnara  one  hundred  and  seven  great  herds 
of  black,  white-tftothed  wild  animals,  decked  with  gold."  In  many 
passages,  i.  138,  2;  viii.  5,  37;  viii.  6,  48;  viii.  46,  22  and  31,  we 
find  the  word  ushtra,  which,  in  later  Sanskrit,  denotes  a  camel ;  but 
according  to  Professor  Both  (see  s.v.}  it  means  in  the  hymns  a  buffalo 
or  a  humped  bull.  Professor  Aufrecht  also  infoms  me  that  in  his 
opinion  it  signifies  the  latter*  In  one'  of  the  passages  (viii.  6,  48) 

638  See  Professor  Miiller's  trans,  of  E.V.  i.  pp.  99  f. 

«39  Profesor  Benfey,  Sap-xaveda,  Trapsl.  p.  288,  reader's  the  half  verse  thus  :  "  Like 
drops  from  a  rutting  elephant,  falls  in  many  place>  his  moisture  of  blessing." 

640  Sayana  makes  varana  =s'ardulau,  "  tigers."  Compare  viii.  55,  8,  where  varana 
seems  to  be  an  epithet  of  vrika,  "wolf." 


WAR,  ARMIES,  ARMOUR,  AND  WEAPONS.  •      469 

the  oxen  are  said  to  form  a  team  of  four  yoked  together  (ushtrdn 
chaturyujah}.  Various  birds  are  mentioned,  peacocks,  mayura  (i.  191, 
14;  iii.  45,  1;  viii.  1,  25) :  pigeons,  kapotaM  (i.  30, 4;  x.  165, 1  ff.)  falcons, 
fyena,  vultures,  gridhra  (ii.  39,  1),  ducks,  chakravdka  (ii.  39,  3),  at% 
(x.  95,  9),  swans,  hamsa  (i.  263,  10  ;  vii.  59,  7),  quails,  vartikd 
(i.  112,  8).  Serpents  are  of  course  frequently  mentioned,  and  in  one 
place,  ix.  86,  44,  reference  is»made  to  their  casting  their  slough  (ahir 
najurnam  ati  sarpati  tvacham}. 

(13)  War,  armies,  armour,  and  weapons. 

Wars,  as  we  have  already  seen  (see  above,  p.  109  f.,  454),  are  frequently 
mentioned  in  the  Rig-veda.  Some  verses  have  also  been  quoted,  in 
p.  110,  from  K.Y.  x.  103,  a  hymn  in  praise  of  Indra's  prowess,  at  the 
close  of  which  he  and  other  deities  are  supplicated  to  confound  the 
enemies  of  fiis  worshippers,  and  cailse  the  arms  of  the  latter  to  triumph. 
R.V.  vi.  75,  is  another  remarkable  composition  of  a  warlike  character 
in  praise  of  armour,  of  the  bow,  etc.  The  following  are  a  few  of  the 
verses,  which  are  spirited  : — 

1.  Jlmutasyeva  lhavati  pratlkam  yad  varml  ydti  samaddm  upasthe  \ 
andviddhayd  tanvd  jay  a  tvam  sa  tvd  varmano  mahimd  pipartu  \  2. 
Dhanvand  gdh  dhanvand  "jim  jayema  dhanvand  tlvrdh  samado  jayema  \ 
dhanuh  satror  apakdmam  krinotu  dhanvand  sarvdh  pradiso  jayema  \ 
3.  Vakshyantlved  d  gariiganti  karnam  priyam  sakhdyam  parishasvajdnd  \ 
yosheva  sinkte  vitatd  'dhi  dhanvan  jyd  iyam  samane  par  ay  anil  |  ....  6. 
Rathe  tishthan  nayati  vdjinah  puro  yatra  yatra  kdmayate  sushdrathih  \ 
abhisundm  mahimdnam  pandyata  manah  paschdd  anu  yachhanti  rasma- 
yah  |  7.  Twrdn  ghoshdn  krinvate  vrishapdnayah  asvdh  rathelhih  saha 
vdjaya-ttah  \  avakrdmantah  prapadair  amitrdn  kshinanti  satrun  anapavya- 
yantah  \ 

"1.  There  appears  like  the  lustre  of  a  cloud  when  the  mailed 
warrior  stolks  into  the  heart  of  the  combat.  Conquer  with  an  un- 
scathed body ;  let  the  might  of  thine  armour  protect  thee.  2.  With 
the  bow  may  we  conquer  cattle,;  with  the  bow  may  we  conquer  in  the 
struggle  for  the  mastery ;  with  the  bow  may  we  conquer  in  the  sharp 

conflicts ;  the  bow  frustrates  the  desire  of  our  enemy ;  with  the  bow 
»  »  » 

641  Professor  Roth  suggests  s.v.  that  Jcapota  may  not  always  mean  a  pigeon,  as  the 

bird  it  denotes  is  sometimes  connected  with  the  owl  (uluka)  and  is  regarded  as  un- 
lucky. In  x.  165,  1,  it  is  called  the  messenger  of  Nirriti  or  Evil. 


470       •  WAR,  ARMIES,  ARMOUR,  AND  WEAPONS. 

may  we  conquer  all  the  regions  around.  3.  The  bowstring  approaches 
close  to  the  bowman's  ear,  as  if  to  speak  to  and  embrace  a  dear  friend ; 
strung  upon  the  bow,  it  twangs  like  the  scream  of  a  woman,  and  carries 
the  warrior  safely  through  the  battle  ....  6.  Standing  on  the  chariot 
the  skilful  charioteer  directs  the  horses  whithersoever  he  wills ;  laud 
the  power  of  the  reins,  which  from  behind  'control  the  impulse  [of  the 
horses].  7.  The  strong-hoofed  steeds,  rushing  on  with  the  chariots, 
utter  shrill  neighings ;  trampling  the  foe  with  their  hoofs,  they  crush 
them,  never  receding." 

The  following  is  a  free  metrical  rendering  of  the  preceding  verses  : 

1.  "When,  cased  in  mail,  the  warrior  proud 

Stalks  on  defiant  to  the  front, 

To  bear  the  raging  battle's  brunt, 
We  seem  to  see  a  flashing  cloud. 
Bold  warrior,  may  thine  armour  bright 
Preserve  thee  scatheless  in  the  fight ! 

2.  May  I  the  foeman's  malice  foil 

With  this  my  all-subduing  bow ! 

May  I,  triumphant,  lay  him  low, 
And  all  his  goods  and  cattle  spoil ! 

This  bow  our  foes  with  ruin  whelms,  o 

And  conquers  all  surrounding  realms. 

3.  The  bowstring  to  the  bowman's  ear 

Approaches  close,  as  if  to  speak : 
Its  twang  is  like  a  woman's  shriek  : 
It  guards  the  warrior's  soul  from  fear. 

6.  See,  yonder  on  the  chariot  stands 

The  dauntless  charioteer,  whose  skill 

His  horses  onward  drives,  whose  will 
Their  movements  to  and  fro  commands. 
The  reins  (their  wondrous  power  extol  I) 
Although  behind,  the  steeds^  control. 

7.  The  impetuous  coursers  shrilly  neigh, 

As  forward  to  the  fight  they  rrush : 
Their  trampling  hoofs  our  ibemen  crush ; 
They  never  shun  the  murderous  fray. 


WAR,  ARMIES,  ARMOUR,  AND  WEAPONS.  .      471 

In  three  hymns  of  the  8th  Mandala,  39,  40,  and  41,  each  verse 
(except  the  last  of  hymn  40)  ends  with  the  words  nabhantdm  anyake 
same  \  "  may  all  aliens  or  enemies  perish  ; "  and  one  verse,  viii. 
40,  7,  contains  a  prayer  for  victory  over  hostile  comhatants,  and 
for  their  destruction  (asmdkebhir  nribhir  vayam  sdsahydma  pritanyato 
vanuydma  vanushyatah],  Eymn  x.  133  contains  prayers  to  Indra  for 
victory  and  projection,  and  eich  of  the  first  six  verses  concludes  with 
the  same  terms  nalhantdm  anyakeshdm  jydjcdh  adhi  dhanvasu  \  "  May 
the  bowstrings  of  our  enemies  be  snapped  upon  their  bows." 

War  chariots  are  mentioned,  as  we  have  just  seen,  in  vi.  75,  6  f. ;  and 
also  in  x.  103, 10  (see  above,  p.  110).  I  am  not  aware  that  any  means 
exist  of  ascertaining  the  form  of  their  construction.  They  seem  to 
have  been  drawn  by  two  horses,  and  were  probably  formed  so  as  to  carry 
two  persons,  a  charioteer  and  a  combatant ;  at  least,  this  may  be  con- 
jectured both  from  the  nature  of  the  case,  the  practice  of  other  countries, 
and  from  the  fact  of  two  or  moYe  deities  being  described  as  occupying  the 
same  car,  in  the  cases  of  Indra  and  Vayu  (above,  p.  144),  of  Agni  and 
the  other  gods  (p.  202),  and  of  Surya  and  the  Asvins  (p.  236).  The 
different  parts  and  appurtenances  of  the  Asvins'  chariot  are  alluded  to 
above  (p.  240  f.,  and  note),  and  had  no  doubt  their  counterparts  in 
those  of  their  worshippers  (see  also  above  the  account  of  Mitra  and 
Varuna's  chariot,  in  p.  42).  The  charioteer  was,  no  doubt,  like  the 
Maruts  (p.  151),  furnished  with  a  whip.  -Foot  soldiers  are  men- 
tioned in  A.V.  vii.  62,  1,  where  Agni  is  said  to  conquer  the  most 
powerful  opponents,  as  a  combatant  on  a  chariot  overcomes  men 
fighting  on  foot  (ayam  Agnih  satpatir  vnddha-vrishno  rathlva  pattln 
ajayat  purohitaK).  Banners  are  alluded  to  as  borne  in  battle,  R.V. 
x.  105)  11  (see  above,  p.  110),  and  in  vii.  83,  2  (y(\tra  narah  sama- 
yante  kritadhvajah  \  "where  men  bearing  ensigns  meet  in  battle, 
etc").  Senani,  "the  leader  of  an  army,"  is  metaphorically  applied 
to  one  of  the  host  of  dice,  x.  34,  12  (yo  vah  sentimr  mahato  ganasya). 
As  regards  the  size  of  the  armies,  the  Vedic  poets  are  familiaj  with 
large  numbers,  at  least  as  regards  the  hosts  of  the  Dasyus,  whether  we 
are  to  take  ,these  as  aboriginal  tribes  or  mythological  foes  in  the  clouds. 

In  i.  53,  9,  60,000 ;  in  >v.  16,  13,  50,000  :  and  in  iv.  30,  21,  30,000, 

*  11 

are  mentioned  as  destroyed  by  Indra.     The  battle  of  Sudas  with  the 

ten  kings  has  been  already  referred  to  (above,  p.  454).      Defensive 


472  POETRY  AND  SPECULATION. 

armour  or  mail  (yarmari),  is  mentioned  in  vi.  75,  1,  already  quoted, 
and  is  referred  to  in  numerous  other  passages,  as  vi.  75,  18  (marmdni 
te  varmand  chhddaydmi  \  "I  protect  thy  vital  parts  with  armour "), 
and  19;  vi.  27,  6.  Varuna  and  Savitri  are  each  of  them  mentioned  as 
being  clad  in  golden  or  yellow  mail  (as  the  word  drapi  is  interpreted 
by  Sayana;  Miiller,  in  Ancient  Sansk.  Lit.,  536;  and  Benfey,  in  R.V. 
i.  25,  13  j643  while  Both,  s.v.,  explains  <it,  perhaps  with  more  proba- 
bility, as  meaning  "robe"),  i.  25,  13  (bibhrad  drdpim  hiranyayam 
Varuno  vaste  nirnijam) ;  iv.  53,  2  (pUangam  drdpim  pratimunchate 
kavih}.  Various  kinds  of  warlike  weapons  have  already  been  mentioned- 
above  in  subsection  (9),  p.  464  f.  See  also  the  accounts  of  the  weapons 
assigned  to  Indra  in  p.  86  f.,  and  of  the  arms  and  armour  of  tha 
Maruts  in  p.  149  f.  and  notes. 

o  * 

(14)  Poetry  and  speculation. 

^ 

The  elaborate  character  of  the  metres  in  which  the  hymns  are  com- 
posed has  been  adverted  to  by  Professor  Wilson,  in  the  Introduction  to 
the  2nd  vol.  of  his  translation  of  the  Rig-veda.  As  regards  the  occa- 
sional beauty  and  variety  of  the  illustrative  imagery  employed,  and  the 
moral  depth  of  many  of  the  reflections,  I  may  refer  to  the  hymns  to 
Ushas  translated  above  in  section  xiii.  The  hymn  on  the  variety  of 
human  pursuits,  ix.  112,  that  on  gambling,  x.  34,  and  the  one  on 
beneficence,  x.  117  (all  translated  in  the  preceding  section,  pp.  424  if.), 
may  be  cited  as  instances  of  close  and  acute  observation  of  human  life. 
The  speculations  on  creation  in  x.  129  (above,  p.  356)  and  in  x.  82  and 
83  (p.  354),  indicate  the  beginnings  of  philosophical  reflection.  As 
an  instance  of  picturesque  expression  I  may  quote  the  epithet  Iriksha- 
Tcesa,  as  applied  to  mountains,  in  v.  41, 11  :  dpah  oshadhir  uta  no  avantu 
dyaur  vand  girayo  vrihhakesdh  \  "  May  the  Waters,  the  Plants,  the 
Sky,  the  Woods,  the  Mountains  with  their  tresses  of  trees,  preserve  us." 

In  R.V.  x.  70,  10,  quoted  in  the  1st  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  254,  and 

fl  f 

in  A.Y.  vii.  12,  quoted  above,  in  p.  4+38,  allusion  is  made  to  social 

meetings,  which  appear  to  have  been  of  a  literary  or  learned  character. 

• 

i 

642  In  R.V.  i.  116,  10,faowever,  BGnfey  renders  fc  by  robe,  or  garment,  as  he  does 
also  in  S.V.  ii.  368=R.V.  ix.  100,  9  (trans.  of*8.V.  p.  256).  In  his  glossary  s.v. 
drapi,  he  translates  it  by  coat  of  mail,  where  it  occurs  in  R.V.  ix.  86,  14. 


CONCLUSION.  473 


(15)  Conclusion. 

'Although  the  hymns  of  the  Rig-veda  exhibit  a  simpler,  a  less 
advanced,  a  less  definitely  fixed  and  developed,  stage  of  religious  belief 
and  conceptions  than  we  meet  with  in  the  works  of  the  earliest  Greek 
poets,  and  a  system  of  ideas  widely  diverse  both  from  the  mythological 
forms,  and  the  Iheosophic  opinions,  of  the  later  Indian  pantheon,  and  of 
subsequent  speculation,  and  although  some  of  the  customs  and  practices 
of  that  early  age  were  different  from  those  which  prevailed  in  later 
times,  it  would  be  a  mistake  to  suppose  that,  in  the  former  period,  the 
condition  of  society  was  of  a  very  primitive  description.  On  the 
contrary,  the  preceding  inquiry  has  brought  into  view  many  signs  of  a 
considerable  progress  in  civilization,  and  in  even  a  certain  sort  of  re- 
finement, as'  then  existing.  (Compare  the  remarks  of  Professor  Wilson, 
in  the  Introduction  to  the  second  volume  of  his  Translation  of  the  Rig- 
veda,  p.  xvii.) 


474 


APPENDIX. 


Page  15,   line  7. 

See  A.Y.  iv.  11,  6  (quoted  in  p.  361,  at  the  foot),  where  the  gods  are 
said  to  have  "  ascended  to  heaven,  leaving  their  bodies  behind." 

Page  15,  line  11. 

In  the  two  following  passages  the  poets  seem  to  claim  affinity  with 
the  gods. 

viii.  27,  10:  asti  hi  vah  sajdtyam  risddaso  devdso  asti  dpyam  \  14. 
Devdso  hi  sma  manave  samanyavo  visve  sdkam  sardtayah  \ 

viii.  72,  7  :  adhi  nah  Indra  eshdm  Yishno  sajdtydndm  \  ita  Maruto 
Asvind  |  8.  Pra  bhrdtritvam  suddnavo  adha  dvitd  samdnyd  \  mdiur 
garbhe  bhardmahe  \ 

Page  18,  line  11. 

Compare  the  Taitt.  Sanh.,  Asht.  6,  p.  18  of  MS.  1702  of  India 
Office  Library :  Devdsurdh  safhyattdh  dsan  \  te  devdh  mitho  vipriydh 
dsan  |  te  anyonyasmaijyaishthydya  tishthamdndh  panchadhd  vyalcrdmann 
Agnir  Vasubhih*  Somo  Rudrair  Indro  Marudbhir  Varunah  JLdityair 
Brihaspatir  F-isvairdevaih  \  te  amanyanta  "  asurebhyo  vai  idam  bhrdtri- 
vyelhyo  radhydmo  yan  mitho  vipriydh  srnah  \  yah  nah  irndh  priyds 
tanuvas  tdh  samavadydma  ha  etdlhyah  sa  nirrichhdd  yah  n(ah  prathamo 
'nyongasmai  druhydd  "  iti  \  tas^ndd  yah  satdnunaptnndm  prathamo 
druhyati  sa  drttim  drchhati  \  fiat  tdnunuptram  samavadyati  Ihrdtrivyd- 
bhibhutyai  bhavaty  dtmand  pard  'sya  bhrdtrivyo  bhavati  ityddi  \ 

"The  gods  and  Asuras  contended  togethel.  The  gods  were  hostile 
to  one  another.  Striving  with  one  another  for  the  superiority,  they 
parted  into  five  divisions,  Agni  with  the  Vasus,  Soma  with  the  Eudras, 


APPENDIX.  475 

Indra  with  the  Maruts,  Varuna  with  the  Adityas,  and  Brihaspati  with 
the  Visvedevas.  They  then  reflected  :  '  We  are  subject  to  our  enemies, 

the  Asuras,  because  we  are  hostile  to  one  another.     Let  us  unite  our 

i 

dear  bodies;  and  whoever  shall  first  show  enmity  to  another,  let  him 
be  separated  from  his  body.'  HeAce,  any  one  among  persons  who  have 
bound  themselves  together  by  an  oath,  who  first  commits  an  injury 
falls  into  calamity.  When  a»man  joins  in  the  oath  tdnunaptra  for 
the  purpose  of  overcoming  his  enemies,  he  conquers,  and  his  adversary 
is  overcome." 

•>  The  same  story  is  told  in  other  words  in  the  Aitareya  Brahmana, 
and  I  quote  the  words  to  show  how  these  narratives  are  yaried  in  the 
different  Brahmanas : 

Ait.  Br.  1,  24  :  Te  devdh  abilhayur  "  asmdlcam  vipremdnam  anu 
idam  asura h  jilhavishyant* "  iti  \  te^vyutkramya  amantrayanta  \  Agnih 
Vasubhir  udakrdmad  Indro  Rudrair  Varunah  Adityair  Brihaspatir 
Visvair  devaih  \  te  tathd  vyutkfamya  amantrayanta  \  te  'bruvan  "  hanta 
ydh  eva  nah  imdh  priyatamds  tqnvas  tdh  asya  Varunasya  rdj'no  grihe 
sannidadhdmahai  \  tdlhir  eva  nah  sa  na  sangachhdtai  yo  nah  etad  atikrd- 
mdd  yah  dlulo  lhavishdd"  iti  \  "tathd"  iti  \  Te  Varunasya  rdjno 
grihe  tanuh  sannyadadhata  \  te  yad  Varunasya  rdjno  grihe  tanuh  sonny a- 
dadfyata  tat  tdnunaptram  alhavat  \  tat  tdnunaptrasya  tdnunaptratvam  \ 
tasmdd  dhur  "  na  satdnunaptrine  drogdhavyam  "  iti  \  tasmdd  u  Asurdh 
na  anvdlhavanti  \ 

I  quote  Professor  Haug's  translation  of  this  passage :  "  The  Devas 
were  afraid,  surmising  the  Asuras  might  become  aware  of  their  being 
disunited,  and  seize  their  reign.  They  marched  out  in  several  divisions 
and  deliberated.  Agni  marched  out  with  the  Vasus  and  deliberated. 
Indra  dfd  so  with  the  Kudras ;  Varuna  with  the  Adityas  ;  and  Brihas- 
pati with  the  Vi^ve  Devas.  Thus  all,  having  severally  marched  out, 
deliberated.  They  said,  '  Well,  let  us  put  these  our  dearest  bodies  in 
the  house  ot  Yaruna  the  king  (i.e.  water) ;  he  among  us  who  should, 
out  of  greediness,  transgress  this  (oath,  not  to  do  anything  which 
might  injure  the  sacrifice),  he»  shall  no, more  be  joined  with  them. 
They  put  their  bodies  in  the  house  of  Varuna.  This  putting  of  their 
bodies  in  the  house  of  Van^jia  the  king,  became^  their  Tdnunaptram 
(joining  of  bodies).  Thence  tBey  say  :  none  of  those  joined  together 
by  the  Tdnunaptram  ceremony  is  to  be  injured.  Thence  the  Asuras 


476  APPENDIX. 

could  not  conquer  their  (the  gods')  empire  (for  they  had  all  been  made 
inviolable  by  this  ceremony)." 

Page  65,  line  13.  e 

Setu  must  mean  "bonds,"  not  "barriers."  See  the  quotation  next 
following  in  the  text,  viz.,  vii.  84,  2  ;  and  compare  R.V.  ix.  73,  4,  and 
x.  67,  4 ;  and  the  word  setra,  rendered  "  a  ligament,  a  fetter,"  in 
Wilson's  Sanskrit  Dictionary. 

Page  103,  line  10. 

Compare  R.Y.  i.  61,  2;  i.  157,  6;  viii.  1,  31  ;  viii.  2,  37;  x.  147t 
1,  where  faith  or  heart-felt  worship  to  Indra  or  the  Asvins  is  ex- 
pressed, or  enjoined. 

Page  105,  line  11. 

So  in  E..Y.  viii.  59,  7,  it  is  said  :  na  slm  aftevah  dpad  isham  dlrghdyo 
martyah  \  "  o  long-lived  god,  the  godless  man  obtains  no  food." 

-Page  108,  line  8. 

Indra  is  himself  declared  to  be  a  priest  and  a  rishi,  viii.  16,  7  (Indro 
brahmd  Indrah  rishih). 

Page  118,  line  19. 

See  also  Professor  Max  Miiller's  Lectures  on  the  Science  of  Lan- 
guage, ii.  427. 

Page  178,  line  6. 

Karamlhad.  See  "Weber's  Indische  Studien,  ii.  306,  and  the  Tait- 
tiiiya  Sanhita,  ii.  6,  8,  4  f.  :  Tat  Pushne  paryaharan  \  tat  Pushd 
prdsya  dato  'runat  \  tasmdt  Pushd  prapishta-bhdgah  \  adantako  hi  \ 
"  They  gave  it  to  Pushan ;  and  he,  in  eating  it,  pushed  out  his  teeth. 
Hence,  Pushan  has  ground  meal  for  his  share  in  the  oblation,;  for  he 
is  toothless."  See  the  later  story  about  how  Pushan  lost  his  teeth,  in 
the  4th  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  168,  322. 

Page  217,   line  10  from  the  foot.  * 

I  have  to  thank  Professor  MiiUer  for  sending  me  a  copy  of  Sayana's 
note  on  the  verse,  R.V.  x.  Ifr  4.  It  ic  as  follows  : — 

Ajah  janana-rahitah  sarlrendriyddi-bhdga-vyatiriktah  antara-purusha- 
lakshano  yo-  bhdgas  fo  Agne  te  fvadlyena  tapakd  tapanena  tarn  iddri&am 
bhagam  tapasva  tapanam  kuru  \  Tathd  le  tava  sochih  Sokahetur  jvdld- 
vise&hah  tarn  bhdgam  tapatu  sarnskarotu  \  tapah-sochir-archih-salddndm 


APPENDIX.  477 

santdndya  tdratamyena  Ihedah  \  He  jdtavedah  te  tava  yds  tanvo  murta- 
yah  sivdh  sukha-hetavah  tanu-tdpa-praddh  tdbhir  eva  tanubhih  pretam 
suJvritdm  sobhana-Tcarma-kdrindm  lokam  sthdnam  vaha  prdpaya  \ 

Of  this  I  will  translate  only  so  much  as  refers  to  the  important 
phrase  ajo  bhdgah  \  "'Aja'  is  the  portion  characterized  as  the  inner 
man,  devoid  of  birth,  and  of  bodily  senses  and  other  parts." 

Professor  Aufifecht  has  favoured  me  with  a  statement  of  some  further 
grounds  in  support  of  his  opinion  as  quoted  in  my  note  to  p.  217.  He 
urges  (1)  that  the  goat  is  sacrificed  to  Agni  (dgneyam  ajam,  S'atap.  Er. 
vi.  2,  1.  5,  and  Tandya  Br.  i.  8,  4,  agnaye  'jam} ;  (2)  that  it  would  be 
absurd  to  ask  Agni  to  burn  or  warm  the  unborn  part,  thai;  is,  to  do  a 
material  act  to  a  thing  beyond  the  reach  of  material  influence ;  (3)  that 
in  the  Big-veda  bhdga  is  never  used  for  part  (pars),  but  only  for  share 
(sors] ;  (4)  that  tap  means  only  to  »burn,  to  consume  by  heat,  not  to 
warm  ;  (5)  that  vdtam  dtmd  gachhatu  \  "let  the  soul  go  to  the  wind," 
had  preceded  in  verse  3 ;  so  that  there  was  no  further  occasion  to  refer 
to  the  man's  immaterial  part.  • 

In  regard  to  what  is  urged  by  Professor  Aufrecht  under  his  fifth 
head,  I  refer  to  what  I  have  said  on  the  sense  of  dtman  in  p.  313. 

Page  220,  line  3  ;  and  267,  line  16. 

D 

On  the  sense  of  vritra  and  vritrahan  see  Professor  Spiegel's  remarks 
in  Kuhn's  Beitrage  zur  Yergleichenden  Sprachfdrschung,  vi.  388  f. 

Page  228,  line  12  from  the  bottom. 

In  reference  to  this  myth  Professor  Aufrecht  refers  me  to  Dr.  Kuhn's 
Zeitschrift,  i.  442,  and  to  Professor  Both's  explanation  of  it,  ibid.  p.  444. 

*  Page  264,  line  14.  „ 

Compare  Aitareya  Brahmana,  iv.  7  ff.,  referred  to  above,  p.  241, 

note  372.     The  story  begins  as  follows : — 

Prajdpatii*  vai  Somdya  rdjne  duhitaram  prdyachhat  Surytim  Sdvi- 

trlm  |  tasyai  sarve  devdh  vardh  dgachha\  \  "  Prajapati  gave  his  daughter 

Surya  Savitri  in  marriage  to  king  Soma.%   All  the  gods  came  as  the 

bridegroom's  friends." 

"Page  269,  line  14. 
In  ix.  92,  5,  it  is  said  that  Soma  protected  the  (Aryan)  man  and 

repelled  the  Dasyu  (Somah  prdvad  manum  dasyave  Jcar  alhikam). 


478  APPENDIX. 

Page  288,  line  4. 

The  Taitt.  San.  vi.  1,  4,  3,  has  the  following  story  about  Yamaj — 
Devds  cha  vai  Yamas  cha  asmin  loke  'spardhanta  \  sa  Yamo  devdndm 
indriyam  viryam  ayuvata  \  tad  Yamasya  l.Yamatvam  \  te  devdh 
amanyanta  "Yamo  vai  idam  abhud  yad  vayam  smah"  iti  \  te  Prajd- 
patim  upddhdvan,  \  sa  etau  Prajdpatir  dh/ianah  ulcsha-vasau  niramimlta  \ 
te  devdh  Vaishndvarumm  vasdm  dlabhanta  Aindram  ukshdnam  \  tarn 
Varunenaiva  grdhayitvd  Vishnund  Tfajnena  prdnudanta  \  Aindrenaiva 
asya  indriyam  avrinjata  \ 

"The  goc?s  and  Tama  contended  in  this  world.  Tama  took  away 
the  vigour  and  energy  of  the  gods.  This  is  his  characteristic.  The 
gods  reflected,  '  Tama  has  become  the  same  as  we  are.'  They  hastened 
to  Prajapati,  who  formed  from  hyuself  this  bull  and  this  cow.  The 
gods  sacrificed  the  cow  to  Vishnu  and  Yaruna,  and  the  bull  to 
Indra,"  etc. 

Page  345,  Mne  7. 

In  R.V.  x.  30,  10,  the  Waters  are  called  the  mothers  and  the 
mistresses  of  the  world  (rishe  janitrlr  bhuvanasya  patriir  apo  vandasvd). . 

Page  361,  line  3.  r 

In  E.V.  x.  190,  right  (or  the  ceremonial),  and  truth,  night,  the 
ocean,  etc.,  are  said  to  have  sprung  from  tapas :  Ritam  cha  satyam  cha 
abhiddhdt  tapaso  'dhi  ajdyata  \  tato  rdtrl  ajdyata  tatah  samudro  arnavah  \ 
2.  Samudrdd  arnavdd  adhi  samvatsaro  ajdyata  \  ahordtrdni  vidadhat 
visvasya  mishato  vasi  \  3.  Suryd-chandramasau  Dhdtd  yathdpurvam 
akalpayat  \  divam  cha  prithivlm  cha  antarihsham  atho  svah  \ 

"Right  and  truth  sprang  from  fervid  tapas;  and  thence  sprang  the 
night  and  the  liquid  ocean.  2.  From  the  liquid  ocean  sprang  the  year ; 
and  it,  the  lord  of  all  things  that  see,  made  the  day  and  night.  Dhatri 
(or  the  Disposer)  made  the  sun  and  moon  as  before ;  and  the  sky,  the 

eartfi,  the  air,  and  the  heaven."1 

f 
Page  453,  line  8  from  the  foot.  ,, 

See  also  Professor  H.  H.  Wilson's  Preface  to  his  translation  of  the 
Vishnu  Purana,  vol.  i.  pp.  iii.  f.  (Dr.  Hall's  edit.). 


479 


INDEX 


A 

Achilles,  305 
Achyuta,  343 
Aditi,  13,  35  ff.,  156,  163, 

224,  228,  355,  360,  369 
Adityas,  11,  3«  f.,  48  ff., 

54  ff.,  70 
Aeschylus,  quoted  25,  44, 

157,  354 
Agastya,  153 
Agha,  110 

Agnayl,  82,  337,  345 
Agni,  8,  13  f.,  35,  51,  63, 

65,  199  ff.,  269,  281  ff., 

297  ff.,  403,  et  passim 
Agni  Daivodasa,  219 
Agnji  Garhapatya,  300 
Agnihotra,  315 
Agni  Savitra,  299,  402 
Agnishvattas  296 
Ahi,  93,  95,  97 
Ahirbudhnya,  336 
Ahura,  mazda,  70,  22, 120 

Aitareya  Aranyaka — 
p.    73    —  23 

—  84     —359 
i.  13,,  2,  3— 49 

Aitareya  Brahmana — 
i.     14—268" 

—  16—208 

—  24—475 
ii.    17—3^2 

—  18—  11 

—  25—144  , 
iii.  20—  93 

-    30—227 

—  44—  321 
iv.     1—  86 

—  7-9—241,  477 

—  27—  23 
vi.  11—  88 

viii.  23 — 468 


Aja  Ekapad,  336,  396 

Ajanadeva,  18 

Aja  panchaudana  offering, 

304,  306 
Ajobhagah,    217,    297  f., 

313,  476  f. 
Amhika,  1     > 
Amsa,  13,  54  ff.',  419 
Amshasjpand,  70,  120 
Anaxagoras,  28  . 

Andra,  121 
Angiras,  ^200,   209,   274, 

277,  395,  409 
Angirases,    23,   56,    226, 

251  f.,  292  f.,  311 
Anumati,  398 
Anuyaja,  11 
Apamnapat,  354 
Apas  (the  Waters),  343 
Aphrodite,  3,  25 
Apnavana,  213 
Apsarases,   44,  308,   345, 

409,  430 
Apva,  110 
Apya  yosha,  290 
Aramati,  337 
Aranyam,  346,  422  f. 
Arbuda,  97 
Ares,  3,  260 
Aristotle's  Politics,   i,  2, 

7,  quoted  5 
Arjlklya,  344 
Aryaman,  13,  47,  54  ff., 

58,  60,  62,  68,  125, 163 
Aryas,  113  f.,  220 
Asikni,  344         • 
Asuniti,*97 
Asuras,  18,  44,  65,  82,  97, 

101, 147,  204,  230,  268, 
•  401,  405 
As'vateyanas  Grihyssutras, 

quotefl,  217,  401 
As  valay  anas'   S'rauta-su- 

tras,  quoted  231 


As'vins,   93  f.,  113,  125, 

145,  164,  192,  234  ff. 
As'vina  libation,  253 
As'vinl,  345 

Atharvan,  209,  395,  409 
Atharvans,  293,  311 
Atharva-veda — 

i. 

7,  2—210 
30,  3—  10 

33,  1—205 

ii. 

5,  3—  49 
30,  2—243 

iii. 

3,  3—  74 
10,  12—  79 
21,  4—403 
25,  1  ff— 407 

29,  3—309 

—  7—403 

30,  1  ff— 439 

iv. 

10,  5—159 

11,  Iff.— 399 

—  7—361 
15,  12—  74 
1$,   _  63 
20,   2—305 

23,  6—  14 
27,   3-150 

34,  2ff.-307 

37,  1  If.— 309 

38,  Iff.— 431' 

39,  2—208 

v. 

24,  4—  74 

—  9  —  158,  298 
'»   25,  3—243 

30,  —440 

—  6—294 

—  11—312 


480 


INDEX. 


Atharva-veda  continued  — 

Atharva-veda  continued  — 

Atharva-veda  continued  — 

vi. 

—7,  13—368,  390 

3,    13—291 

21,      1—305 

—     43—309,  377 

—     14—311 

28,      3—291 

9,    12—  10 

—     59—297 

36,      3—403 

_     62—301       c 

41,      3—296 

xi. 

—     71—300 

78,      3-225 

1,      1—224 

4,      3—302 

81,      3—224 

—     36—293 

—       5—398 

92,      1—225 

—     37—304  ' 

—       7—292 

118,      1—430 

3,    52—391 

—  9  f.—  300 

120,      1—299 

4,        —393- 

-^-     62—311 

—       2—  41 

4,    12—391 

—     64—298 

—       3—306 

5,        —399 

122,      4—293 

—       5—362 

xix. 

123,  2,  4—293 

—     19—  15 

6,      4—368 

140,      2—463 

6,      7—396 

9,      7-301 

7,        —396 

63        —407 

vii/ 

—       1—309 

54         —408 

6,      2—  36 

—       3—360 

66,      1—65,  88 

12,        —438 

—22,27—13 

Atithigva,  97 

20,      6—398 

8,      1—237 

Atman,  386 

50,  If.—  429 

—30  ff.—  387 

Atmayajin,  318 

53,        —442 
—      7—374 
62,      1—471 

xii. 
1,    10—  3<? 

Atri  Saptavadhri,  247 
Afcyamhas  Aruni,  316 
Aurora,  181 

83,      1—  74 

'    —     20—207 

Aurva,  213 

109,  1  ff.—  429 
115,        —348 

2,    45—300 
3,    17—3*05 

Ayasya,  274 

4,    36—312 

B. 

viii. 
1,        —443 

xiii. 
1         —  395 

Bacchus,  258 

2,        —446 

3  147 

Bahishpavamana,  253 

—    1  f.—  309,  312 

7_  15 

Bhagavadglta,  334 

—       3—298 

—     45  —  158 

Bhaga,    13,    54  ff.,   fi68, 

—     11—294 

2         161 

170,  190,  419 

—     24—312 

39  ff.  396 

Bhagavata    Purana,   viii. 

5,      3—405 
8,  5  ff.—  87,  405 

*>           3,    13—219,353 
—     23  —  396 

16,  1  ff.—  53 
Bharadvaja,  402 

—     15—296 
9,  1,  7  ff.—  370 

4,  1  ff.—  353 

Bharata,  468 
Bharati,  219,  339 

—     21—  49 

xiv. 

Bhavya,  454 

10,  Iff.—  370 

2,31f.—  309 

Bhrigu,  209,  213,  322 

Bhrigus,  10,  49,  225,  251, 

ix.        f 

xvi. 

293,  311         r 

2,        —402 

9,      Z—  174 

Bhujyu,  244,  248 

—       5—370 

Bhupati,  Bhuta,  Bhutan- 

3,      17—468 

xvii. 

Smpati,  and  Bhuvana, 

5,    1,  3—303 

1,    19—359 

231 

—7,  10—304 

Bhuvana,  &  2 

—22  ff.—  305 

xviii. 

Brahma,  325  f.,  355,  376, 

—27  f.  —306 

1,  >3  f.—  290 

f.  378  ff.,  401 

10,    24—370 

2,  20  ff.—  293 

Brahma,    16,    161,    321, 

r—  24  ff.,  37—294 

326,  369,  384 

X. 

—     28—296 

Brahmachvrin,  399  ff. 

2,        —374 

—     32—302          r 

Brahmaloka,  321 

7,       '—  378        n 

-r-    36—298  Q. 

Brahmanaspati,     13,    38, 

—  32  ff.—  401 

—     48—304 

224f.~272ff.,  355,  360 

8,        —385 

—     49—295 

Brahmans,  286,  299,  324, 

—       1—401 

—     53—174 

371 

INDEX. 


481 


Brahma-sutras,  16 
Brihadaranyaka      Upani- 

"shad,  12,  316,  319,  323 
Brihaspati,    23,   93,    193, 

"272  ff.,  292 


C. 


Chaos,  24 
Chaturmasya,  315 
Chaturrims'atiratra,  15 
Chhandogya     Upanishad, 

323 ;  vi.  2,  1—359. 
Chitra,  454 
Chitragupta,  302 
Chyavana,  243 
ChyavSna,  250 
Cyclopes,  24 


D. 


Dadhyanch,  209 
Daksha,  13,  48,  50  ff., 

80,  355,  360,  369,  419 
DakshayanT,  80 
Danavas,  95 
Danavl,  82 
Danu,  95 
Danus,  95 
Dasa,  114 
Basra.  240 

Dasyus,  100,  113  f.,  220 
Dawn,  181  ff. 
Demeter,  26  f.,  260 
Deshtri,  395 
Devapi,  280 
Devayajin,  318 
Dhatri,  31,  54,  159,  169 
Dhishana,  339 
Dhruva,  398 
Diodorus  Siculus  quoted, 

26 

Dionysus,  25!?f. 
Diti,"l3,  42,  147 
Divodasa,  97,  219,  34\ 

451 

Durga,  214,  256 
Durvasas,  324  - 
Dyaus,7,  H,21ff.,  39,  76, 

100,    118  ff.,   142,   156, 

205,  212,  267,  357 
Dyaushpitar,  33,  118f. 


E. 

Earth,  7,  11,  13,  21  ff., 
40,  76,  102.  See  Pri- 
thivi. 

Egyptian  cosmogony,  26 

Ekashtakv.,  79  f. 

Elephants,  467  f. 

Eros,  406 

Euripides  quoted,  26,  28, 
90,  $59,  298 


F. 

Fathers  (Pitris)  267, 286ff., 
398 


G. 

Gaia,  76        ">   • 
Gandharva,  289  f. 
Gandhvvas,   13,  44,  262 

ff.,  296,  308  f.,  398,  400 
GangS,  339,  344 
Ganges,  77,  338 
Gayatri,  263 
Ghosha,  247,  458 
Gemeter,  26 
Gma,  34 
Go,  34 

Goethe  quoted,  298 
Gomati,  344 
Gotamas,  186 
Gunas    (the    three),    309, 

377 
Gungu,  346 


H. 

Habakkuk,  3,  8—98 
Hades,  305 

Harivamsa,  8803—438 
Heaven,  7,  11,  13,  21  ff., 

102.     See  Dyaus. 
Helios,  145 
Hell,  312 

Hephaistos,  86,  i99,  224 
Here,  24,  260 
Hermes,  173 

Herodotus     quoted,    111, 
,  209,  432 

Hesi'xl  quoted,  24,  76,  406 
Hiranyagarbha,    1,  31  f., 
354,  383,  390,  411 


Hiranyahasta,  247 
Homer  quoted,  157 
Homeric    hymns    quoted, 

24,  155 
Hotra,  339 

I. 

Ignis,  199 

I  la,  339 

Indra,   8,    13,    17,    30  f., 

77  ff,  192,  229,  266 
Indrani,  82,  337 
Isaiah,  19,  1—98 


Jemshid,  1 
Jma,  34 
Juhu,  398,  411 
Jumna,  338 
Jupiter  Pluvius,  77 


K. 

Kakshivat,  246 

Kala,  391,  407  ff.,  411 

Kali,  243 

Kali  (one  of  the  dice),  430 

Kalpas,  325 

Kama,  347,  362,  402  ff., 

411 

Kamadyu,  244 
Kauada,  364 
Kapardin,  462 
Kapila,  364 
Kas'yapa,  52  f.,  80,  373, 

408 
Katha    Upanishad,    308, 

330 

Kathaka  quoted — 

i  3,  15—  82 

12,    5—392 

12,  10—232 

Kaushltaki       Upanishad, 

308,  371 
Kavya  Us'anas,  86,   201, 

210 

Kavyas,  292 
Kronos,  24 
Krumu,  344 
Kshattriyas,  252,  389 
Kshetrasyapati,  465 
Rubha,  344^ 
Kurukshetra,  252 
Kuyava,  95 

31 


482 


INDEX. 


L. 

Manes,  311 

Nirukta  continued  — 

Manu,  i.  6  ff.  referred  to, 

vii.     1—     9 

Lakshml,  348 

369,  408 

—     5—8,  143,  350 

Linga,  384 

i.  24—410 

—     9—171 

Lokayatikas,  364 

Manu,    Manush,    10,    79, 

—  27  ff.—  207 

Lucretius  quoted,  28  f. 

113,  161,206,  209,228, 

ix.  26—338 

250                c 

x.  26—372 

Manus,  161 

xi.  23—  50 

M. 

Manvantaras,  161 

xii.     1—234 

Manyu,  237,  361,  406 

—  10f.—  227 

Madhukas'a,  381 

Marka,  230 

-*-    19—207 

Madhuvidya,  382 
Madhyamikas,  364 

Markandeya  purana,  233 
Marttanda,  49 

—    35—  39 
—    41—  17 

Madhyamiki  Vach,  340 

Marudvridha,  344 

Nirvana,  326 

Maghavan,  99,  102 

Maruts,  10,  12,  79,  92  ff., 

Nishti,  13 

Mahabharata— 

110,  147  ff.,  215,  285 

Nishtigri,  13,  79 

Matall,  292 

Nodhas,  185 

Mataris'van,  204  f.,  219, 

Nonentity,  356 

i. 

380,  395 

3135—52 

Matsyapurana,  sect.  116  — 

206 

0. 

Matthew,    St.,    quoted  — 

iii. 

24,  30  ;  26,  64—98 

Ogni,  199' 

171,  14019,  15465—11 

Mehatnu,  344 

Oromazes,  71 

Meru,  324 

Ouranos,  25,  33,  75  f. 

Mithra,  70  ff.,  120 

Ovid  quoted,  60,  157 

VI. 

Mitra,    13,    37,    39,   47, 

3019—343 

51  f.,  54  f.,  58  ff.,  120, 

125,  156  f.,  et  passim 

P. 

.. 

Mitradates,  71 

XU. 

Mitrobates,  71 

Panis,  220 

241     —372 

Moon,  270,  391 

Parameshthin,    381,   391, 

1184     —  15 

Mudgala,  324 

395,  401,  408 

3657,  3667     —308 

Mujavat,  261,  426 

Parameshthin  Prajapatya, 

6811     —343 

Mundaka  Upanishad,  389 

80 

6812  ff.—  357 

Mashnara  468 

Paravrij,  246 

7527,  7530    —408 

Parjanya,    23,    38  f.,   98, 

8810  ff.—  326 

140  "ff.,  174,  262,  393, 

8106,  8125  ff.      ) 

436 

8139  ff.,  9877  f.  }  407 

N. 

Parushni,  344 

10060                  ) 

Pas'ujbandha,  315 

9449  ff.—  347 

Nachiketas,  308,  329 

Pedu,  247 

9616     —372 

Naighantuka,  9 

Perkunas,  142 

10836     —361, 

Nairuktas,  17,  143 

Pipru,  96 

Namuchi,  93  ff.,  249 

Pis'achas,  448 

Nandana,  324 

Pitris,  44  (see  Fathers). 

xiii. 

Naoghaithi,  121 

Plaksha  Dayampati,  316 

51  ff.—  409 

Narasimha  purana,  291 

Plato    quoted,    155,    298, 

7102     —  11 

Nasatya,  240 

406 

Nasatyas,  10 

Plutarch  referred  to,  71 

« 

Navagvaf.,  293,  311 

XIV, 

Nighantu,  193  f^ 

Polyphemus,  90 

987  ff.—  377 

Nigttc,  i88 

Poseidon,  31 

1444     _  15 

Nirriti,  82 

Pradhanan364 

Mahadeva,  372 

Nirritis,  19                      f 

Prajapati,  11,  15,  56,  80, 

MahT,  339                        r, 

NirukJta  —               & 

164,  233,  264,  319,  3-52, 

Maitri  Upanishad  quoted, 

ii.     3—  37  ir 

372,  376,  381,  387,  390 

393,  410 

vi.     9—460 

ff.,  401,  408,  439 

INDEX. 


483 


Prana,  393  ff. 

Rig-veda  continued  — 

Rig-veda  continued  — 

Prasaha,  82 

347        10—164,  239 

34,        19-105 

Pris'ni,  39,  147 

—        11—     9 

85,         7—  95 

Pritliivl,  7,  11,  21  ff.,  119 

35,          1—  52 

8—151,454 

Pialms  quoted,  85 

—      2  if.-  162  f. 

9—  86 

Parana,  398 

36,         4—216 

87,         3—150 

Purumitra,  -244 

—  ,       18-286 

88,      1  f.—  151 

Pururavas,  286,  421 

—         19—209 

89,         5—172 

Purusha,  31,  50,  80,  143, 

'    38,         5—303 

—        10—43,  354 

316,  367  ff. 

9—150 

91,   1,  18—284 

Piishan,  31,  81,  -84,  168, 

>—        13—282 

—2,  6,  8,  21—269 

171  ff.,  257,  269,  462 

39,         5—150 

—        22—267 

40,      5  f.—  279 

92,           —183 

42,           —174 

93,     Iff.—  269  f. 

43,         2—  35 

94,          7—211 

R. 

44,         5—238 

—     10  f.—  213 

_        10—451 

95,         2—109 

Rajanya,  371 

—         12—212 

—  >       3—208 

Ruka,  346 

45,         2—  10 

100,          1—  99 

Riikshasas,  44 

46,          3—241 

101,         3—125 

Rakshases,  101,  204,  270, 

48,           —181 

5—199 

299 

60,           —T59 

102,         2—103 

Rasa,  344 

—     *   2—467 

—          8—  81 

Rebha,  246 

—        12—  54 

103,         2—  96 

Ribhus,  85,  166,  226,  284 

*5l,     4,  6—  97 

3—113 

Rig-veda  quoted  — 

—          8—113* 

—           5—103 

52,         7—  91 

104,      6  f.—  103 

Mandala  i. 

—          8—  97 

105,          2—457 

55,         1—  86 

—     7,  8—457,  467 

1,         3-216 

—          3—  92 

—        17—281 

4-200 

—          5—103 

108,         6—103 

3,        10—338 

58,      4f.—  211 

109,         2—460 

—         12—339 

6—209 

—          4—  89 

»     20,          6—226 

59,     1,5—  214  f. 

110,      2f.—  164 

22,          1—238 

—          2—206 

111,          1—86,226 

9—229 

6—220 

112,     5,  8—246 

—         11—337 

61,          6—  86 

—         15—243 

—         19—  94 

8—465     * 

_         19—244 

23,        13—174 

—        14—  99 

113,           —187 

—        22—343 

62,        11—106,457 

—        18—193 

24,      1  f.—  45 

63,         2—  92 

114,         1—451 

—6,  8,  10—  62 

64,         7—150,468 

115,         1—157 

8—156 

—    8,  11—151 

116,  1,  3ff.,  23-244 

—  „  9,  11—  65 

65,          4—212 

7—246 

15—  46 

66,          8—212 

!_           8—247 

25,  1,  12—  65 

67,          3—214 

—         10—243 

—7,9,11—  63 

68,         2—210 

—        15—245 

—10,13,18—59,472 

5—214 

—        17—236 

27,      7tf.—  216 

69,          1—206 

—         24  —  246 

—        13—  12 

70,     1,  3—215 

117,3,6,7,9,20,24—247 

30,        16—  85 

71,          li-457 

4—246 

31,          1  —  200 

72,         9—  40 

9—240 

7—217,  284 

78,          4—220 

—        13—236,  243 

—         10—216 

80,        14—  96 

—  14f.,l7f.—  245 

32,  2—86,  96  f.,  224 

15—  92 

—         20—244 

—    5,  13—  96 

,  82,     5,  6—  §1,  85 

,         _       ,21—113 

9—  95 

S4,         1—  88 

118,          4—241 

—         14—  93 

4-265 

5—236 

484 


INDEX. 


Rig-reda  continued  — 

Rig-reda  continued  — 

Rig-veda  continued— 

118,         6—243 

171,          4—154 

19,          3—  96 

9—247 

173,         6—  99 

4—107 

119,         5—236 

175,         5—  89 

20          8—  92 

—       6  f.—  246 

176,         1—  &1 

22,          3—107 

121,        12—  86 

179,          6—285 

23,           —274 

122,         9—  68 

180,         1—  240  f. 

—        17—225 

123,         2—184 

181,         2—241 

24,  1  ff.,  8—277 

3—169 

—          3—240  ' 

26,         3—280 

5—190 

4—235 

27,         1—  54 

124,          1—165 

182,         R—  24t 

—  "-      3f.—  56  f. 

—  ,         7—457  f. 

—      5  ff.—  245 

_         10—  60 

125,      5  f.—  285 

183,         2—192 

_         14  —  46,  6S 

126,          1—454 

184,          2—243 

—        16—  57 

7—467 

185,         1—  32 

28,     4,  8—  62 

130,         7—  97 

3—  36 

5—  65 

8—113 

186,         7—106,458 

—          6—  63 

131,         1—31,  92 

188,         9—225 

29,         1—460 

4—112 

190,      1  f.—  279 

31,         5—191 

133,         6—147 

191,         5—467 

32,  4,  6  f.—  346 

134,         3—144 

191,         9—  54 

33,         9—  454 

4—145 

—        10—464 

34,      2  f.—  150 

135,  1,3,4—  143  f. 

( 

35,         8—354 

136,         3—  36 

38,         1—166 

138,          1—180 

,    Mandala  ii.  ' 

—  2,7,9,  11—  163  f. 

139,        11—  10 

—          9—125 

141,         9—125,215 

1,     3  ff.—  ,219,  282 

39,     1  ff.—  242 

142,        10—224 

—     13  f.—  202 

40,     1  ff.—  31,  180 

142,        12—145 

2,          7—283 

41,         5—  60 

143,         5—213 

4,         3—206 

—         16—341 

149,         3—213 

8,         3—215 

—         17—342 

—          4—451 

9,          1—215 

151,         9—  68 

11,          7—  84 

154,         5—285 

—       9f.—  96 

Mandala  iii.      A 

156,          4—125 

—        11—  89 

157,    1—165,  169,  239 

—         14—  91 

2,        11—212 

4-249 

—        18—113 

3,      3f.—  200 

—          5—243 

—        19—114 

—        10—214 

159,      If.—  21 

12,      1  f.—  124 

11—205 

5—166 

3—205 

4,          9—225 

160,     2  ff.—  22,  30 

5—104 

5,        10—214 

161,     1  ff.—  226 

—    6,  14—107 

6,          5—214 

—         10—463 

—          7—158,  192 

—      6,9—10,213 

—         14—  72 

—       8f.—  109 

8,         5-^194 

162,        22—  4ti 

—        10—112 

9,          9—12,215 

163,       13—285 

—     11  f.—  97 

12,     4,  6—220 

164,          6—357 

14,          1—  89 

14,          4—215 

43—463 

—           4—  98 

20,          4—218 

46—219 

—          6—  97 

21,       '  1—210 

49—342 

15,         1—  93 

3—200 

50—  17 

—    «.     2—88,115 

.       23,         4—338 

165,     6ff.—  15 

—          3—  ,96 

25,          1—205 

8—  92 

6—192 

5—106 

—           9—  99 

16,          2—  83 

26,     „    2—282 

166,        12—  36 

—          3-  85 

7—210 

167,          0—460        t 

It,          5—  99t 

27,     2,  7—200 

4—460 

18,          3—  85,  106 

29,     1  ff.—  209 

170,     2  ff.—  154 

19,          2—  94 

30,         o  —  30,  99 

INDEX. 


485 


Rig-veda  continued  — 

Rig-veda  continued,  — 

Rig-veda  continued  — 

31,        15—158 

5,        13—191 

29,        15—462 

32,         4—  92 

6,         2—211 

30,         5—92,  100 

—          8—158 

8,     2,4—202,215 

31,          2—107 

—       9  f.—  89 

12,         4—46,  218 

—          4—85  f. 

—     12  f.—  91  f 

13,         2—159 

—        10—  91 

33,         6—166 

14,         2—169 

32,          1—  96 

34,          1—  91 

16,        14—468 

34,         2—  86 

_          2  99 

'     17,         2—31,100 

—          4—111 

—          8—  30 

-    4,  17—78,  105 

36,          1—  89 

9-M13 

>—        16—107 

37,     1,  4—107 

35,         4—  85 

18,  1,5,  10  if.—  78 

41,    .    11^,472 

—          6—  89 

3—229 

42,         6—100 

7—  88 

—          4—100 

43,        11—340 

9—  92 

—        12—  16 

—        12—280 

36,      7  f.—  89 

21,         9—108 

46,         3—  41 

38,         4—  84 

26,         2—114 

48,    18  f.—  172 

43,         7—262 

—          6—262 

52,  i      15—454 

44,         2—158,  192 

28,      1  f.—  267 

53,         4—150 

45,     1,  4—85,  107 

30,         1—124 

54,     1,  3—150 

46,      2f.—  99 

—      3,  5—  18 

—         11—149 

47,          1—  89 

—      8  ff.—  ^92 

55,         1—151 

'  3—  92 

—  I*)  20—97,  451 

—          4—285 

48,      2f.—  77 

32,        16—  90 

_          5—160 

4—84,  229 

»—    17  ff.—  109 

57,         6—150 

49,          1—  80 

33,      5  f.—  226" 

60,      2  f.—  150 

61,       12—  89 

-r        11—  20 

62,         3—  68 

52,         3—90 

35,     3,  8—284 

—          6—  60 

53,         2—106 

36,        18-450 

8—42,  60 

4ff.—  81 

38,         5—467 

63,         1—  60 

5—104 

41,         4—122 

2—285 

.       —          8—  82 

42,         3—225 

3—  68 

54,         5—  19 

43,         6—236 

4—159 

—        13—151 

45,         4—241 

69,     1,  4—  68 

18—  62 

46,  1,  3f.—  144 

3—  36 

—     19  f.—  40 

48,      4  f._144 

73,          1—238 

55,           —  354 

50,  l,4ff.—  278 

5—236 

—          2—286 

51,         9—184 

74,         5—243 

—         10—215,  285 

52,         2—192 

—        10—238 

—         19—225 

—          4—195 

75,         5—241 

56,         1—  18 

53,2—164,353,472 

—         10—286 

6—166 

—      3,  6—166 

76,          3—239 

58,          1—192 

64,         2—14,  164 

78,     4  ff.—  247 

5<\           —  69 

3—164,  166 

79,         9—195 

61,     4,  6—191 

56,         3—  30 

^81,         2—191 

62,         9—172 

—      2,  3—162  ff. 

—      4,  5—169  f. 

Mandala  v. 

82,     2  ff.—  163,  166 

Manila  iv. 

6—  47 

1,         4—201 

83,           —140 

1,       2,  4—219    , 

—        li—  213 

85,         2^162 

2,           6—216 

,2,         7—  65 

—          6—  62 

11—  43 

3,          1—219 

_      7  f._  65 

4,        ,4—218 

4,         9—218 

10—216 

—        10—285 

IVlandala  vi. 

5,          1—214 

,      9,      3  f.-,210 

* 

4—126 

>13,         6—219 

2,      4  f.—  216 

5—311,  458 

25,          5—216 

5,         5—216 

486 


INDEX. 


Rig-veda  continued  — 

Rig-veda  continued  — 

Rig-veda  continued  — 

7,      1  f.—  206 

60,          6—114 

38,          4—47,  125 

4—  14 

61,1,2,  7,  8,1  If.—  340  ff. 

39,         2—  20 

—          7—214 

63       6  f.—  241 

40,          1—167 

8,         3—214 

71,  1  f.,  6—167 

5—354 

—          5—218 

72,     1,2—158,270 

45,          1—162,167 

9,      1  f.—  465 

74,     1,  3—  ?70 

49,         2—  72,466 

7—215 

75,  1  ff.,  6  f.—  469 

3—  63 

13,          1—218 

—        18—472   ' 

62,          2—441 

14,         2—200 

56,        13—150 

1  6,  1  3,  14,  39,  48—209,  220 
17f,        8—  92 

Mandala  vii. 

57,1-         1—150 
6—285 

9—  96 

1,       14—206 

58,       12—  74 

—        10—  86 

2,          1—211 

60,         1—158 

—        11—178 

3—209 

2—157 

18,          3—104,  114 

6—191 

3—156 

10—101 

9—225 

4—  62,156 

19,         3—  84 

3,         6—212 

5—  57 

20,         2—  92,95 

7—218 

6  f.—  68 

21,         4—  85 

4,          4—200 

61,         5—  63 

—      5,  8—104 

6—217 

63,         1—158 

—         11—113 

6,          4—215 

2—  156f. 

24,         3—107 

•  6—220 

64,       '  2—  72 

7—  15 

6,          1—214 

65,          3—  65,  476 

8—100 

—          2—213 

66,         2—  51 

25,         3—114 

r—          3—220 

4—169 

27,         4—  96 

5—  V91 

11—  61 

28,         5—103 

—          7—218 

13—  68 

29,         2—  82 

11,          1—202 

67,      2  f.—  238 

30,      1,  5—  30,  100 

12,         2—218 

68,          3—242 

36,          1—  92 

13,          1—  49 

7—245 

39,         3—193,  267 

—          2—215 

69,          3—236 

40,         2—  89 

15,        12—  43 

72,          2—249 

44,  23—159,  193,  267 

—         14—218 

4—239    "» 

—  22,  24—268 

16,         3—211 

5—238 

45,       26—107 

18,          2—454 

75,         5—191 

47,      1  f.—  262 

20,         5—  79 

76,          1—158 

3—90,  194 

21,         6—  92 

4—193,  286 

5—268 

7—  17,  125 

77,         2—187 

6—  89 

23,         3—  31 

3—157 

—    8,  11—106,112 

5—105 

78,  3—156,  159,  191,  205 

—    15  ff.—  110 

26,         3—458 

80,          1—195 

—         18—  82 

27,         3—107 

81,         4—195 

—        19—227 

30,          1—  12 

82,      2  f.—  A23,  159 

—         23—450 

31,         5—105 

—       6  f.—  122 

49,          7—340 

6—109 

83,         1—114 

50,          2—  51 

32,    18  f.—  108 

2—471 

7—345 

33,         2—  89 

8—462 

51,         5—22,  41 

1—462 

T9—  123 

7—441 

34,         2—  32 

84,          2—65,  123 

52;         4—286 

—      ,  20—225 

85,          3—123 

6—339 

—     21  f.—  226 

86,     3  ff.—  66 

53  &  54  —176 

35,   8,  10—169 

87,  1,  2,  3,  5—  62 

55,           —177 

12—286 

'  4—  63 

56  &57  —178 

36,         2—  70 

*  7—  47,  65 

58,         --—179        t 

37,        3—107  f 

88,         2—  59 

3—157 

38,     2,  4—167 

4  ff.—  60,  67 

.59,    11  f._  13f. 

3—163 

89,     1  ff.—  67 

INDEX. 


487 


Rig-veda  continued  — 

Rig-veda  continued  — 

Rig-veda  continued  — 

90,          3—143 

16,          7—476 

48,          7—269 

91,         5—144 

17,     6  ff.—  89 

—          9—265 

6—  85 

—         10—  87 

—        13—267,  287 

92,         2—144 

—        14—  97 

50,         2—  89 

93,         7—  47,218 

18,       15—  57 

—    9,  17—108 

94,         7—220 

19.,       25—108 

51,2,7,12—124 

95,     1  ff.—  340  f. 

—        32—219 

7—101 

96,     4  ff.—  340 

'    _         33—206 

54,         7—105 

97,         6—281 

20,  23,  25—153 

—     10  f.—  152 

8—  J  23,  280 

J21,         4—105 

65,        13—105 

98,         3—  79,  89 

—         14—112 

57,        11-  /1  05 

99,     4  f.—  95,  159,  205 

—         18—339,454 

58,         7—112,  286 

100,         4—113 

22,        16—240 

—         11—  88 

101,  1,  2,  4ff.—  141  f. 

23,          1—211 

—        16—  82 

103,           —435 

—        15—217 

59,         5—  30 

104,          3—312 

—        17-210 

7—476 

6—106 

24,       27—114 

6V      17—265 

25,         3—  38 

62,         2—241 

Mandala  viii. 

26,        21—144,229 
27,        10—474 

4—238 
—         11—249,268 

2,         4—  89 

28,          1—  HO 

64,          1—213 

12—464 

—      J  -4—  18 

65,        10—83 

—        18—  20,88 

29,         7—  19 

66,          1—  81 

—        20—460 

»30,         2—  10 

4—  89 

4,         9—108,  457 

—          3—  19' 

67,         3—156 

—  10,  12—  89 

31,    15  f—  20 

—       5  f.—  112 

—        16—466 

32,        26—  97 

7—116 

5,  If.,  30—  238 

33,         2—  89 

—        10—173 

7—242 

—          8—468 

—        20—301 

—     28  f.—  240 

—        17—461 

68,          1—268 

—        38  —  456 

34,         9—  85 

2—265 

6,          1—  98 

—          3—467 

69,  1,  3,  4,  7—105 

5—  30 

35,         3—  10 

70,         3—100,107 

—        13—  96 

—    13  ff.—  156 

71,         8—271 

—        15—100 

36,         4—116 

72,      7  f.—  474 

—        18—  49 

39,         3—210 

78,         2—100 

—        38—  31 

6—215 

7—158 

—        40—  89 

40,         7—471 

80,  11,  14—  96 

—        41—102 

41,        10—378 

81,         6—116 

7,4,8,23—150 

42,         1—  61 

—        30—106 

—        25—149 

2—  65 

—        32—105 

—        31—  92 

43,        13—209 

82,         5—101 

,•},  4,  23—238 

—        21—218 

—        12-  31 

9,        12—248 

—        23—215 

*  83,     9  ff.—  152 

—        17—192,238 

—        31—217 

85,         3—  83 

12,        14—  47 

44,       23—109 

—  4,  6,  9—100 

—        22—  92 

45,         4—  81 

—    7,  15—  93 

_        30—101 

—        17—106 

—          8—147 

13,       16—  91 

—    32  ff.—  Ill 

—        20—105 

14,          1—108 

—        39  —  85 

86,       14-»-101 

—    5,  11—  92 

46,       32—461 

87,         2—353 

—          9—100 

33—  -455 

—          6—114 

—        J3—  98 

47,     2,  8—  57 

—          8—  92 

14  97 

—          9—  38 

—        11—105 

—        15—112 

,     -        13-y  57 

89,  ^3f.—  104 

15,         2—100 

.48,          1—266 

—           8—262 

—          8—  92 

3—  19,90 

—          9—  86 

488 


INDEX. 


Eig-veda  continmd  — 

Rig-veda  continued  — 

Rig-veda  continued  — 

90,        11—  54,156 

106,          8—  14,266 

34,           —425 

12—158 

107,         7—267 

1—261 

—        15—  38 

108,         3—266 

—       4  f.—  460 

—         16-370 

109,         3—266 

35,         7—168 

91,      4  f.—  213 

—        15—265 

36,      2  f.—  41 

6—168 

110,         3—267 

—         14—168 

—          8—225 

112,           —424 

37,          1—156,  159 

—         17—206 

113,          2—103/361 

6—314 

—     19  f.—  216 

—          3—237 

—        12—441 

92,         1—113,220 

—      7  ff.—  261,  306 

38*,         3—114 

2—219 

114,         3—  54 

39,     3,  5—242 

3—215 

—    6,  11—249 

8—243,  246 

Mandala  x. 

9_246  f. 

Mandala  ix. 

—        11—236 

2,  1,  4f.—  200 

—        12—192,238 

1,         1-261 

7—  24,  205 

—        13—248 

—          6—237 

4,          1—218 

40,         2—459 

4,         6—225 

5,         7—  51 

3—455 

5,         9—226 

6,         6—218 

4—468 

42,         4—267 

'«,      8  f.—  230 

6—460 

54,          3—268 

9,         fo—  343 

41,          3—  59 

61,  16,  22,  30—267 

10,           —288 

42,          2—107 

66,    16  f.—  268 

5—  17C,  225 

—          3—108 

—         18—269 

'  12,         8—  47 

-    4,  11—105 

—        24—267 

14,           —291 

43,         1—106,458 

67,  10  ff.—  461 

7—  65 

—      4,  7—  90,  465 

73,         8—268,  312 

15,           —295 

—          5—159 

76,         2—267 

—        12—202 

44,         8—101 

78,         4—269 

16,     1  ff.—  297 

—          9—  87 

82,         3—142 

4—217,476 

45,         1—207 

83,         3—287 

17,     1  ff.—  227,  287 

4—212 

85,         2—265 

—      3  ff.—  164,  173 

8—205    * 

—          3—267 

8—241 

46,          2—209 

—        12—263 

—    10  ff.—  338 

9—206,  226 

86,10,37,40—267 

18,          3—466 

47,     1,  7—106 

—        29—159 

6—225 

48,          1—105 

_        44—469 

20,         9—212 

3—  86,  92 

87,         2—13,  267f. 

21,         5—209 

11—124 

—          6—  97 

22,     4  ff.—  85 

49,         2—  39,  114 

—          9—  85 

23,         7—105 

7—  85,  156 

88,     3  f.—  267 

24,         5—249 

10—229 

89,         6—268 

25,     3,  6—268 

60,         4—  *92 

—        12—  9b 

7—269 

51,     4ff.—  202  f. 

90,         3—267 

9—267 

52,      1  f.—  203 

—          5—266 

26,      4f.—  180 

53,         9—224,  281 

91,       22—267 

27,    11  f.—  458 

10—  14 

92,         4—  11 

—        17—467 

54,  1  ff*6—  102 

5—477 

28,         3—  90 

3—  30 

96',         5—  13,267 

29,     ,     6—  30 

»      55,          1—  81 

—          6—269 

30,          5—269 

56,         1—207 

97,       24—268 

-«          10-478 

58,         1—313 

—        41—267 

—         12—339 

59,      .    4—269 

—        42—266 

31,         3—  19          f 

60,        10—313 

—         5C—  41         n 

—  ,         7—  32  , 

61,       -  4—239 

98,         9—  31,268 

33,         2—  45r 

62,         3—159 

101,  1,  13—467 

—       8  f.—  19 

—        11—456 

INDEX. 


489 


Big-veda  continued  — 

Eig-veda  continued  — 

Eig-veda  continued  — 

63,      2  f.—  38  f. 

90,         5—  50 

141,         3—280 

7—209 

—        14—  31 

142,         4—212 

—        10—  41 

91,          2—204 

146,           —422 

64,          2—  19 

—  3—201,218 

149,     1,  4—  31,164 

5—  61 

—       4  f.—  213 

150,         4—201 

65,          5—  68 

—  ,  8  ff.—  200 

151,     1  ff.—  346 

9—  39 

,  93,         6—262 

152,          1—105 

—         11—114 

95,       18—286 

4—312 

—         12—244 

97,  1,  3  ff.—  13,  357,  463 

154,           —310 

—        15—19 

X-           6—454,  464 

156,          4—158,  214 

66,        10—227 

—  15,  19—281,463 

158,     1  S.-+     8,  170 

67,          5—193 

—        16—303 

159,         4—  14 

68,  6  ff.—  193,  279,  283 

98,         7—280 

160,          1—107 

—        11—287,311 

99,         6—  98,  230 

3—104 

69,          3—209 

100,          5—281 

165,          4—302 

9—215 

8—168 

167,          1—  14,80 

70,   2,  11—202 

101,        12—  13 

168,J   1  ff.—  145 

9—226 

102,          3—114 

171,         4—158 

71,         2—348 

—        12—102 

173,           —456 

4—461 

103,     8  ff.—  109,  281 

181,          3—169 

72,          ,—  48,355 

107,       ,   —433 

184,          1—225,  390 

—      2  f.—  17 

1—287 

2—342,  346 

73,         1—  79 

2—285 

186,          1—146 

6—193 

109         4—  17  , 

187,          4—215 

75,           —343 

5—401 

190,           —478 

78,         3—150 

110  >        9—  31,225 

3—  31,  159 

79,      1  f.—  212 

—        11—201 

Eijras'va,  245 

4—210 

112,          1—  94 

Rikvans,  292 

5—216 

2—  84 

Eivers,  343 

80,          3—247 

3—  83 

EodasT,  148,  345 

81   &   82—354 

113,          3—  92 

EohinI,  264 

81,      2  f.—  32 

114,         2—  19 

Eohita,  395  f. 

83,          1—  IJ.4 

3—462 

Eudra,  1,  125,  146  ff. 

—      2  f.—  361 

5—353 

Eudras,  11,  124,  147  ff. 

85,          1—158 

115,          1—210 

—      2  ff.—  266,  270 

117,           —431 

—3,  9,  14—237 

1—  19 

S. 

4—  79 

119,           —  90 

—        19—192 

4—106 

Sadhyas,  17,  55,  372 

—  26,37—173,243 

120,          1—  79 

S'akalya,  316 

_        43—390 

5—  92 

S'akapuni,  207 

46—460 

6—  95 

S'akra,  88 

86f         9—337 

121,         9—  31 

Samf-veda  — 

—     11  f.—  82 

123,         6—  60 

i.    299—  38 

—        19—114 

125,          1—226 

—     340—289 

87,  2,  5,  14—204 

129,           —     5,  356 

ii.  1060—403 

88,         2—211 

1—  32 

—  1219—  84 

'  4—214 

6—  13 

Samvartaka  fire,  161 

—6,8,1  Of.—  206 

131,         4—  92 

S'ambara,  95  f.      , 

11—  54,L"9 

133,           3-471 

S'auda,  230 

—        15—287 

-»          2—  81 

Sankarshana,  408 

89,         2—  97 
—          -i—  102 

134,          1—  79 
6—  87 

Sankhya  karika  quoted,  16 
S'apharuj,  87 

7—  96 

»       135,          1—302 

Sarama,  294 

—       8  f.—  125 

138,         5—193 

Otiranyu,  227,   237,    257, 

10—  31,  102 

6—  92,  102 

288 

90,           —367 

139,          1—168,  172 

Sarasvat,  340 

32 

490 


INDEX. 


Sarasvatl,  93  f.,  219,  337 

S'atapatha  Brahmana 

Sudhanvan,  284 

ff.,  454 

continued  — 

S'udra,  371 

Sarayu,  339,  450 
S'aryata,  251 

5,  3,    1—358 
—4,  15—318 

Sukanya,  252,  254 
Sumitra,  209 

S'aryati,  254 
S'atapatha  Brahmana  — 

6,  3,    1—317 
—  5,    9—387 

S'unasVepa,  45 
Surya,  13,  54,   125,  143, 

c 

155  ff.,  298 

i. 

xi. 

Surya,  171,  178  f.,  236  f., 

1,  1,    7—  20 

1,  6,  14—  80 

257 

—  9,    1—  55 

—8,    2—372 

Susartu,  344 

6,  4,  18—  96 

—       6—31* 

S'ushna,  95  f. 

9,  J,  10—319 

2,  1,    1—303 

S'utudri,  339,  344 

—3,    1—387 

Svadha,  292 

ii. 

—6,  13—318 

Svaha,  292 

1,  4,'    9—314 

—7,  33—314 

Svaraj,  370 

2,  1,  19—  41 

3,  3,    1—387 

Svarga,  286,  302 

3,  3,    1—208 

4,  3,    1—349 

Svayambhu,  353,  408 

4,  2,    1—  15 

—4,    1—321 

S'vetas'vatara  Upanishad, 

—       2—52 

6,  6,    3—317 

409 

6,  4,    8—320 

—       9—321 

S'vetl,  344 

6,  2,    2—320 

iii. 

—  3,  11—316 

1,  3,    3—  50 

8,  3,    5—  314 

'T. 

2,  4,    1—263 

xii.        < 

Taittirlya  Brahmana  — 

iv. 

3,4,    1—377 

1,  5,    1—250 

—5,    1—  >64 

i. 

—     16—234 

7,  3,    1—  94 

3,    2,    2—265 

5,  7,    2—  11 

8,  3,  31—315 

5,    2,    6—299 

6,  1,    1—315 

6,    4,    1—164 

xiii. 

V. 

6,  1,    1—377 

ii. 

3,  1,    4—  41 

7,  1,    1—372,  387 

4,  2,  52—343 

2,    3,    3  —  80 

—  5,    1  —  95 

xiv. 

-^  7,    1—376 

1,  2,  18—393 

—9,  1,  10—33,  365 

vi. 

2,  1,    8—  52 

—  10,    1—80,  264 

2,  2,  27—317 

—  2,    2—  13 

4,    1,    6—201 

5,  4,    8—320 

3,  2,    1—372 

—  2,    6  —  299 

6,  2,    4—322 

6,  2,  13—319 

—          7—36,  82 

—9,  28—316 

—  6,    5—307 

vii. 

7,  1,  32—308 

8,    8,    5—342 

5,  2,    6—391 

Savitri,    31,    43,    47,    54, 

—         6—347 

, 

125,  155,  162  ff,  353 

—         8  —  4)04 

ix. 
1,  4,    6—458 

SautramanT,  315 
S'ayu,  247 

—         9—389 
—  9,    6—32,  355 

5,  1,    1—  14 

Sindhu,  153,  339,  344,  454 

Sinivali,  53,  346 

iii. 

X. 

Skambha,  378  ff. 

1,    2,  f  1—242 

1,  5,    4—315 

Soma,    13,    31,    94,    110, 

7,  12,  3f.—  66,441 

2,  6,    7—314 

121,  140,  180,  237,  258 

9,  22,    1—372 

—     19—314 

ff.,  £06               c 

10,    9,  11—320 

3,  2,  13—319 

Soma-iuice,  88  ff.,  237 

—  11,    1—299 

3,  3,    8—319 

S'raddha,  264,  346,  404 

—        <-  6—320 

4,  1,    9—387 

S'rl,  349                            r. 

11,    8,    1—329 

—  3,    1—314         "i 

Strabo  quoted,  77     ' 

12,    2,    6—318 

—  3,    9—315 

Subandhu,  313 

—  3,  1—15,  44,  347,  361 

—4,    4—307 

Sudas,  454,  471 

—     9,    7—390 

INDEX. 

TaittiriyaBrahmtma,  Com- 

U. 

mentary  on,  quoted,  358, 

362  f.,  365 

TJchhishta,  13,  391,  396  ff. 

Taittiriya  Sanhita  — 

Ugrajit,  430 

. 

Ugradeva,  286 

i. 

Ugrampas'ya,  430 

2,    3,    1—  51 

Upabhijjt,  398 

8,  16,    1—  58 

Urahavya,  397 
Urana,  96,  98 

ii. 

Urvasi,  345,  421 

2,    3,    1—403 

UsUs,  13,  157,  178,  181 

3,    5,    1—11,264 

ff.,  238 

6,    1,    1—230 

Uttanapad,  41,  360 

—  8,    5—201 

—         6—218 

—11,    8—201 

V. 

6,    8,    4—476 

Vach,  263,  340,  342,  370, 

392,  405 

iv. 

Vachaspati,  273 

p.  34a     —  53 

VadhrimatI,  247 

Vadhryas'va,  341 

5,    4,  '  1—  74 

Vairupas,  311     ^ 
Vais'ya,  3Vl~ 

p.  34«s     —  15 

Vajas,  284 

Vaj^saneyi  Sanhita— 

vi. 

1,    17—217 

1,    3,    6—  17 

-7,    11—382 

1,    4,    3—478 

10,    16—  42 

1,    6,    5—263 

13,    43—  35 

4,    3,    3—  73 

19,    12—  94 

—    8,      —  59 

23,  47  f.—  387 

—    9,    1—253 

29,      9—225 

.     —  10,    1—230 

—     60—  53 

6,  11,    2—  81 

31,    18—373 

p.  10,      —307 

—     19—390 

p.  18,      —474 

—     22—349 

p.  41,      —372 

32,      2—374 

p.  65a    —  225 

—       5—391 

p.  670    —317 

Vala,  279 

Valakhilya  — 

vii. 

8,      3—461,  467 

2,    7,    2—235 

9,      2—  11 

4,    2,    1—  15 

10,      2—357 

Tapas,*80,  361,  366 

Vandana,  246 

Trishtama,  344 

Varchin,  95 

Trita,  117,  419 

Varena,  75 

Trita  Aptya,  195,  230,  336 

Varuna,    1,  4,  13,    32  f., 

Tritsus,  462 

37  ff.,  46  f.,  54  f.,  58  ff., 

Tugra,  244  f. 

110,  116ff.,  et  passim. 

Tura  Kavasheya,  387 

Varunam,  345 

Turvas'a,  286                * 

Varutri,  339> 

Tvashtra,  336 

Vas^htha,  70,  345 

Tvashtri,  31,  38,  86,  96, 

Vasishthas,  195*296,311 

144,'  205,^  224  ff.,  281, 

Vastoshpati,  273 

287,  290                          « 

Vasus,  11,  22,  124,  163 

491 

Vata,  39,  85,  142,  145 
Vayu,  8,  39,  85,    143  ff., 

206,  229 
Vibhavasu,  263 
Vibhidaka,  426 
Vilistenga,  82 
Vimada,  105,  244 
Viraj,  50,  369,  387,  395, 

401,  405 
Virupa,  292 
Vishnapu,  244 
Vishnu,  1,  13,  1-9,  53,  79, 

95,  113,  122,  125,  169, 

etc. 
Vishnupurana,    52,    271, 

313 

Vishuvat,  397 
Vis'pala,  245 
Vis'vaka,  244 
Vis'vakarman,  1,  32,  352, 

354,  372,  396 
Vis'varupa,  230 
Vitasta,  344 
Vivasvat,  50,  52,  55,  144, 

205,227,  235,257,266, 

288,  301 
Vrihannaradlya     Purana, 

'302 

Vrishakapi  hymn,  421 
Vi-itra,  79,  8i,  95  ff.,  119, 

220,  267 
Vulcan,  199 

W. 

"Waters,  343 


Xenophon  referred  to,  71 

T. 

Ya$i,  286 

Yama,  65,  219,  227,  266, 
284  ff.,  353,  421.  442  f. 
Yami,  228,  287  ff.,  421 
Yamuna,  339,  344 
Yatudhanas,  9,  204,  270 
Yima,  75 

•5 

Z. 

Zendavesta,  71,  120,  419 
Zeus,  4,  21,  33,  45,  261 


THE    EUD. 


STEPHEN    AUSTIN,    PRINTER,   HERTFORD. 


LINGUISTIC    PUBLICATIONS 

OF 

TRUBNER    &    CO., 

8  AND  60,  PATEENOSTEE  ROW,  LONDON,  E.O. 


Ahlwardt. — COLLECTION  OF  ANCIENT  ARABIAN  POETS  ;  Published  with 
Critical  and  Bibliographical  Notes,  and  with  an  Index  of  Variations  in  the  Text, 
etc.  By  "W.  AHIAVAKDT,  Professor  of  Oriental  Languages  at  the  University  of 
Greifswald.  Crown  8vo.  cloth.  (In  the  press.") 

Alabaster. — THE  MODERN  BUDDHIST  :  Being  the  Views  of  a  Siamese 

Minister  of  State  on  his  own  and  other  Religions.  Translated,  with  Remarks, 
by  HENRY  ALABASTER,  Interpreter  of  H.B.M.  Consulate-General  in  Siam,  &c. 
In  1  vol.  crown  8vo.  n  [/«  the  press. 

Alcock. — A  PRACTICAL  GRAMMAR  oi*  the  JAPANESE  LANGUAGE.  By  Sir 
RUTHERFORD  ALCOCK,  Resident  British  Minister  at  Jeddo.  4to.  pp.  61, 
sewed.  18s. 

Alcock. — FAMILIAR  DIALOGUES  In  JAPANESE,  with  English  and  French 
Translations,  for  the  use  of  Students.  By  Sir  RUTHERFORD  ALCOCK.  8vo. 
pp.  viii.  and  40,  sewed.  Paris  and  London,  1863.  5s. 

Alger. — THE  POETRY  OF  THE  ORIENT.  By  WILLIAM  ROUNSEYILLE  ALGER, 
8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xii.  and  337.  9s. 

Andrews. — A  DICTIONARY  OF  THE  HAWAIIAN  LANGUAGE,  to  which  is 

appended  an  English-Hawaiian  Vocabulary,  and  a  Chronological  Table  of 
Remarkable  Events.  By  LORRIN  ANDREWS.  8vo.  pp.  560,  cloth.  £l  11s.  6d. 

Arabic,  Persian,  and  Turkish  Books  (A  Catalogue  of).    Printed  in 

the  East.  Constantly  for  sale  by  Triibner  and  Co.,  8  and  60,  Paternoster  Row, 
London.  CONTENTS. — Arabic,  Persian,  and  Turkish  Books  printed  in  Egypt. — 
Arabic  Books  printed  in  Oudh.  — Persian  Literature  printed  in  Oudh. — 
Editions  of  the  Koran  printed  in  Oudh. — Arabic  Books  printed  at  Bombay. — 
Persian  Books  printed  at  Bombay. — Arabic  Literature  printed  at  Tunis. — 
Arabic  Literature  printed  in  Syria.  16mo.  pp.  68.  Price  1*. 

Asher. — ON  THE  STUDY  OF  MODERN  LANGUAGES  IN  GENERAL,  and  of  the 
English  Language  in  particular.  An  Essay.  By  DAVID  ASHER,  Ph.D.  12mo. 
pp.  viii.  and  80,  cloth.  2*. 

Asiatic  Society. — JOURNAL  OF  THE  ROYAL  ASIATIC  SOCIETY  OF  GREAT 
BRITAIN  AND  IRELAND,  from  the  Commencement  to  1863.  First  Series,  com- 
plete in  20  Vols.  8vo.,  with  many  Plates.  Price  £10;  or,  in  Single  Numbers, 
as  follows : — Nos.  Tto  14,  6s.  each ;  No.  15,  2  Parts,  4s.  each  ;  No.  16,'2  Parts, 
4s.  each;  No.  17,  2  Parts,  as.  each;  No.  18,  6s.  These  18  Numbers  form 
Vols.  I.  to  IX.— Vol.  X.,  Part  1,  op.;  Part  2,  5s.;  Part  3,  5s.— Vol.  XL, 
Part  1,  Cs. ;  Part  2  not  published.— Vol.  XII.,  2  Parts,  6s.  each.— Vol.  XI1L, 
2  Parts,  6s.  each. — V«?l.  XIV.,  Part  1,  5s. ;  Part  2  not  published. — Vol.  XV., 
Part  1,  6s.;  Part  2,  with'  Maps,  10s.- --Vol.  XVIj  2  Parts,  6s.  each.— Vol. 
XVII.,  2  Parts,  6s.  each.— Vol.  XVIII.,  2  Parts,  6s.  each.— Vol.  XIX.,  Parts  1 
to  4,  16s.— Vol.  XX.,  3  Parts,  4s.  each. 


2  Linguistic  Publications  of  Trubner  <f;  Co. 

Asiatic  Society. — JOURNAL  OF  THE  ROYAL  ASIATIC  SOCIETY  OF  GREAT 
BRITAIN  AND  IRELAND.  New  Series.  Vol.  I.  In  Two  Parts,  pp.  iv.  and  490. 
Price  16s. 

CONTENTS  —I.  Vajra-chhedika,  the  "Kin  Kong  King-,"  or  Diamond  Sutra.  Translated  from 
the  Chinese  by  the  Rev.  S.  Beal,  Chaplain,  R.N.— II.  The  Paramita-hridaya  Sutra,  or,  in  Chinese, 
"  Mo-ho-po-ye-po-lo-mih-to-sin-king,"  i.e.  "The  Great  Paramita  Heart  Sdtra."  Translated 
from  the  Chinese  by  the  Rev.  S.  Beal,  Chaplain,  R.N.— III.  On  the  Preservation  of  National 
Literature  in  the  East.  By  Colonel  F.  J.  Goldsmid.— IV.  On  the  Agricultural,  Commercial, 
Financial,  and  Military  Statistics  of  Ceylon.  By  E.  R.  Power,  Esq.— V.  Contributions  to  a 
Knowledge  of  the  Vedic  Theogony  and  Mythology.  By  J.  Muir,  D.C.L.,  LL.D.— VI.  A  Tabular 
List  of  Original  Works  and  Translations,  published  by  the  late  Dutch  Government  of  Ceylon  at 
their  Printing  Press  at  Colombo.  Compiled  by  Ivir.  Mat.  P.  J.  pndaatje,  of  Colombo.— VII. 
Assyrian  and  Hebrew  Chronology  compared,  with  aviev  of  showing  the  extent  to  which  the 
Hebrew  Chronology  of  Ussher  must  be  modified,  in  conformity  with  the  Assyrian  Canon.  By 
J.  W.  Bosanquet,  Esq. — VIII.  On  the  existing  Dictionaries  of  the  Malay  Language.  By  Dr. 
H.  N.  van  der  Tuuk. — IX.  Bilingual  Readings  :  Cun'  '.form  and  Phoenician.  Notes  on  some 
Tablets  ir  the  British  Museum,  containing  Bilingual  Legends  (Assyrian  and  Phoenician).  By 
Major-General  Sir  H.  Rawlinson,  K.C.B.,  Director  R.  A.S. — X.  Translations  of  Three  Copper-plate 
Inscriptions  of  the  Fourth  Century  A.D.,  and  Notices  of  the  Chalukya  and  Gurjjara  Dynasties. 
By  Professor  J.  Dowson,  Staff  College,  Sandhurst. — XI.  Yama  and  the  Doctrine  of  a  Future 
Life,  according  to  the  Rig-Yajur-,  and  Atharva-Vedas.  By  J.  Muir,  Esq.,  D.C.L.,  LL.D.— XII. 
On  the  Jyotisha  Observation  of  the  Place  of  the  Colures,  and  the  Date  derivable  from  it.  By 
William  D.  Whitney,  Esq.,  Professor  of  Sanskrit  in  Yale  College,  New  Haven,  U.S. — Note  oh 
the  preceding  Article.  By  Sir  Edward  Colebrooke,  Bart.,  M.P.,  President  R. A.S. —XIII.  Pro- 
gres  of  the  Vedic  Religion  towards  Abstract  Conceptions  of  the  Deity.  By  J.  Muir,  Esq., 
D.C.L.,  LL.D.— XIV.  Brief  Notes  on  the  Age  and  Authenticity  of  the  Work  of  Aryabhata, 
Varahamihira,  Brahmagupta,  Bliattotpala,  and  Bhaskaracharya.  By  Dr.  Bb.au  Daji,  Hono- 
rary Member  R.A.S.— XV.  Outlines  of  a  Grammar  of  the  Malagasy  Language.  By  H.  N.  Van 
tier  uuk. — XVI.  On  the  Identity  of  Xandrames  and  Krananda.  By  Edward  Thomas,  Esq. 

Vol.  II.     In  Two  Parts,     pp.  522.,  Price,  16s. 

CONTENTS. — I.  Contributions  to  a  Knowledge  of  Vedic  Theogony  and  Mythology.  No.  2. 
By  J.  Muir,  Esq.  —II.  Miscellaneous  Hymns  from  the  Rig-  and  Atharva-Vedas.  By  J.  Muir, 
Esq. — III.  Five  hundred  questions  on  the  Social  Condh.on  of  the  Natives  of  Bengal.  By  the 
Rev.  J.  Long. — IV.  Short  account  of  the  Malay  Manuscripts  belonging  to  the  Royal  Asiatic 
Society.  By  Dr.  H.  N.  van  derTuuk.— V.  Translation  of  the  Amitabha  Sutra  from  the  Chinese. 
By  the  Rev.  S.  Beal,  Chaplain  Royal  Navy. — VI.  TLe  initial  coinage  of  Bengal.  By  Edward 
Thomas,  Esq. — VII.  Specimens  of  an  Assyrian  Dictionary.  By  Edwin  Norris,  Esq. — VIII.  On 
the  Relations  of  the  Priests  to  the  other  classes  of  Indian  Society  in  the  Vedic  age  By  J.  Muir, 
Esq.— IX.  On  the  Interpretation  of  the  Veda.  By  the  same. — X.  An  attempt  to  Translate 
from  the  Chinese  a  woi'k  known  as  the  Confessional  Services  of  the  great  compassionate  Kwan 
Yin,  possessing  1000  hands  and  1000  eyes.  By  the  Rev.  S.  Beal,  Chaplain  Royal  Navy. 
—XI.  The  Hymns  of  the  Gaupayanas  and  the  Legend  of  King  Asamati.  By  Professor  Max 
Miiller,  M.A.,  Honorary  Member  Royal  Asiatic  Society.— XII.  Specimen  Chapters  of  an  Assyrian 
Grammar.  By  the  Rev.  E.  Hinckg,  D.  D.,  Honorary  Member  Royal  Asiatic  Society. 

Vol.  III.     In  Two  Parts,     pp.516.     With  Photograph.     22s. 

CONTENTS.— I.  Contributions  towards  a  Glossary  of  the  Assyrian  Language.  By  H.  F.  Talbot. 
— II.  Remarks  on  the  Indo-Chinese  Alphabets.  By  Dr.  A.  Bastian.— III.  The  poetry  of 
Mohamed  Rabadan,  Arragonese.  By  the  Hon.  H.  E.  J.  Stanley. — IV.  Catalogue  of  the  Oriental 
Manuscripts  in  the  Library  of  King's  College,  Cambridge.  By  Edward  Henry  Palmer,  B.A., 
Scholar  of  St.  John's  College,  Cambridge  ;  Member  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  ,  Membre  de  la 
Socie"te  Asiatique  de  Paris.— V.  Description  of  the  Amravati  Tope  in  Guntur.  By  J.  Fergusson, 
Esq.,  F.R.S. — VI.  Remarks  on  Prof.  Brockhaus' edition  of  the  Kathasarit-sagara,  Lambaka  IX. 
XVIII.  By  Dr.  H.  Kern,  Professor  of  Sanskrit  in  the  University  of  Leyden.— VII.  The  source 
of  Colebrooke's  Essay  "  On  the  Duties  of  a  Faithful  Hindu  Widow."  By  Fitzedward  Hall,  Esq., 
M.A.,  D.C.L.  Oxon.  Supplement:  Further  detail  of  proofs  that  Colebrooke's  Essay,  "On  the 
Duties  of  a  Faithful  Hindu  Widow,"  was  not  indebted  to  the  Vivadabhangarnava.  By  Fitz- 
edward Hall,  Esq.— VLI.  The  Sixth  Hymn  of  the  First  Book  of  the  Rig  Veda.  By  Professor 
Max  Miiller,  M.A.,  Hon.  M.R.A.S.— IX.  Sassanian  Inscriptions.  By  E.  Thomas,  Esq.— X.  Ac- 
count of  an  Embassy  from  Morocco  to  Spain  in  1690  and  1691.  By  the  Hon.  H.  E.  J.  Stanley. — 
XI.  The  Poetry  of  Mohamed  Rabadan,  of  Arragon.  By  the  Hon.  H.  E.  J.  Stanley.— XII. 
Materials  for  the  History  of  Inrlia  for  the  Six  Hundred  Years  of  Mohammadan  rule,  previous  to 
the  Foundation  of  the  British  Indian  Empire.  By  Major  W.  Nassau  Lees,  LL.D.,  Ph.D. — XIII. 
A  Few  Words  concerning  the  Hill  people  inhabiting  the  Forests  of  the  Cocuin  State.  By 
Captain  G.  E.  Fryer,  Madras  Staff  Corps,  M.R.A.S.  — XIV.  Notes  on  the  Bhojpurl  Dialect  of 
Hindi,  spcken  in  Western  Behar.  By  John  Beames,  Esq.,  B.C.S.,  Magistrate  of  Chumparun. 

Vol.  IV.     In  Two  Parts,     pp.  521. 

CONTENTS.— I.  Contribution  towards  a  Glossary  of  the  Assyrian  Language.  By  H.  F.  Talbot. 
Part  II.— II.  On  Indian  Chronology.  By  J.  Fergusson,  Esq.,  F.R.S.— III.  The  Poetry  ot 
Mohamed  Rabadan  of  Arragon.  By  the  Hon.  H.  E.  J.  Stanley.— IV.  On  the  Magar  Language 


VII.  Khuddaka  Patha,  a  Pali  Text,  with  a  Translation  and  Notes.  By  R.  C.  Childers,  late  of 
the  Ceylon  Civil  Service. — VIII.  An  Endeavour  to  elucidate  Rashiduddin's  Geographical  Notices 
of  India.  By  Col.  H.  Yule,  C.B.— IX.  Sassanian  Inscriptions  explained  by  the  Pahlavi  of  the 


60,  Paternoster  Row,  London.  5 

Bombay  Sanscrit  Series — continued.     Already  published. 

3.  PANCHATANTEA  n.  AND-III.  Edited,  with  Notes,  by  Gr.  BUHLEE,  Ph.  D. 

Pp.  86,  14,  2.     5s.  6d. 

4.  PANCHATANTEA  i.     Edited,   with  Notes,    by  F.  KIELHOEN,  Ph.D. 

Pp.  114,  53.     6s.  6d. 

TJoyce. — A  GEAMMAE   OF   THE   KAFFIB  LANGUAGE. —  By  WILLIAM  B. 

BOYES,  Wesleyan  Missionary.  Third  Edition,  augmented  and  improved,  with 
Exercises,  by  A\TILLIA>I  J.  DAVIS,  Wesleyan  Missionary.  12mo.  pp.  xii.  and 
164,  cloth.  8s. 

Bowditch. — SUFFOLK  SUENAMES.  By  N.  I.  BOWDITCH.  Third  Edition, 
8vo.  pp.  xxvi.  and  758,  cloth.  7s.  6d. 

Brice. — A  ROMANIZED  HINDUSTANI  AND  ENGLISH  DICTIONAP/T.  De" 
signed  for  the  use  of  Schools  and  for  Vernacular  Students  of  the  Language' 
Compiled  by  NATHANIEL  BRICE.  New  Edition,  Revised  and  Enlarged.  Post 
8vo.  cloth,  pp.  vi.  and  357.  8s. 

'Brinton. — THE  MYTHS  OF  THE  NEW  WOELD.  A  Treatise  on  the  Sym- 
bolism and  Mythology  of  the  Red  Races  of  America.  By  DANIEL  G.  BKINTON, 
A.M.,  M.D.  Crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  308.  10s.  6d. 

Brown. — THE  DEEVISHES  ;  or,  OEIENTAL  SPIEITUALISM.  By  JOHN  P. 
BROWN,  Secretary  and  Dragoman  of  the  Legation  of  the  United  States  of 
Americ^i  at  Constantinople.  With  tvvx&ty-four  Illustrations.  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.  viii.  and  415.  14s. 

Brown. —  CAENATIC  CHEONOT^DGY.    The  Hindu  and  Mahomedan  Methods 

of  Reckoning  Time  explained  :  with  Essays  'on  the  Systems  ;  Symbols  used  for 
Numerals,  a  new  Titular  Method  of  Memory,  Historical  Records,  and  other 
subjects.  By  CHARLES  PHILIP'BROWN,  Member  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society; 
late  of  the  Madras  Civil  Service ;  Telugu  Translator  to  Government ;  Senior 
Member  of  the  College  Board,  etc. ;  Author  of  the  Telugu  Dictionaries  and 
Grammar,  etc.  4to.  sewed,  pp.  xii.  and  90.  10s.  Qd. 

Brown. — SANSKBIT  PEOSODY  AND  NUMEBICAL  SYMBOLS  EXPLAINED.  By 
CHARLES  PHILIP  BROWN,  Author  of  the  Telugu  Dictionary,  Grammar,  etc.,  Pro- 
fessor of  Telugu  in  the  University  of  London.  Demy  8vo.  pp.  64,  cloth.  3s.  6d. 

Biiddhag'hosha. — BUDDHAGHOSHA'S  PABABLES^:  translated  from  Burmese 

by  Captain  H.  T.  ROGERS,  R.E.  With  an  Introduction  containing  Buddha's 
Dhammapadam,  or,  Path  of  Virtue  ;  translated  from  Pali  by  F.  MAX  MULLEB. 
8vo.  pp.  378,  cloth.  12s.  6d. 

Burgess. — SUEYA-SIDDHANTA   (Translation  of  the) :    A   Text-book  of 

Hindu  Astronomy,  with  Notes  and  an  Appendix,  containing  additional  Notes 
and  Tables,  Calculations  of  Eclipses,  a  Stellar  Map,  and  Indexes.  By  Rev. 
E^ENEZER  BURGESS,  formerly  Missionary  of  the  American  Board  of  Commis- 
sioners of  Foreign  Missions  in  India ;  assisted  by  the  Committee  of  Publication 
of  the  American  Oriental  Society.  8vo.  pp.  iv.  and  354,  boards.  15s. 

Callaway. — IZINGANEKWANE,  NENSTJMANSUMANE,  NEZINDABA,  ZABANTTT 

(Nursery  Tales,  Traditions,  and  Histories  of  the  Zulus).  In  their  own  words, 
with  a ''translation  into  English,  and  Notes.  By  the  Rev.  HENRY  CALLAWAY, 
M.D.  Volume  i1.,  8vo.  pp.  xiv.  and  378,  cloth.  Natal,  1866  and  1867.  16*. 

Callaway.  —  THE    RELIGIOUS  .SYSTEM    OF    THE    AMAZULU. 

Part  I.  Unkulunkulu ;  or,  the  Tradition"  of  Creation  as  existing  among  the 
Amazulu  and  other  Tribes  of  South  Africa,  in  their  own  words,  with  a  translation 
into  English,  and  Not^s.  By  the  Rev.  Canon  CALLAWAY,  M.D.  8vo.  pp.  126, 
sewed.  4s.  ,  ^ 

Part  II. — Amatongo;  or,  Ancestor  Worship,  as  existing  among  the  Amazulu,  in 
their  own  words,  with  a  translation  into  English,  and  Notes.  By  the  Rev. 
CANON  CALLAWAY,  M.D.  8vo.  pp.  127,  sewed.  4s. 

2 


6  Linguistic  Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co. 

Canones  Lexicographic! ;  or.  Rules  to  be  observed  in  Editing  tV,e  New 
English  Dictionary  of  the  Philological  Society,  prepared  by  a  Committee  of  the 
Society.  8vo.,  pp.  12,  sewed.  6d. 

Carpenter. — THE  LAST  DAYS  IN  ENGLAND  OF  THE  RAJAH  RAMMOHW 
EOT.  By  MARY  CARPENTER,  of  Bristol.  With  Five  Illustrations.  Svo.  pp. 
272,  cloth.  Is.  (id. 

Carr. — «-o^erfirs_§j-S'o[J5S'.  A  COLLECTION  OF  TELUGTJ  PROYERBJ, 
Translated,  Illustrated,  and  Explained ;  together  with  some  Sanscrit  Proverbs 
printed  in  the  Devnagari  and  Telugu  Characters.  By  Captain  M.  W.  CAKR, 
Madras  Staff  Corps.  One  Vol.  and  Supplemnt,  r'  yal  Svo.  pp.  488  and  148.  31s.  6d. 

Catlin. — O-KEE-PA.  A  Religious  Ceremony  of  the  Mandans.  By 
GEORGE  CATLIN.  With  13  Coloured  Illustr£,.ions.  4to.  pp.  6b,  bound  in  cloth, 
gilt  edges.  14*. 

Chalmers. — THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  CHINESE;  an  Attempt  to  Trace  the 

connection  of  the  Chinese  with  Western  Nations  in  their  Religion,  Superstitions, 
Arts,  Language,  and  Traditions.  By  JOHN  CHALMERS,  A.M.  Foolscap  8vc-. 
cloth,  pp.  78.  2*.  6d. 

Chalmers. — THE  SPECULATIONS  ON  METAPHYSICS,  POLITY,  AND  MOEALITY 
OF  "  THE  OLD  PHILOSOPHER"  LAU  TSZE.  Translated  from  the  Chinese,  with 
an  Introduction  by  John  Chalmers,  M.A.  Fcap.  Svo.  cloth,  xx.  and  62.  4s.  Gd. 

Charnock. — LTTDTJS  PATRONYJT .JTJS  ;  or,  the  Etymology  of  Curious  Sur- 
names. By  RICHAUD  STEPHEN  CH^..NOCK,  Ph.D.,  F.S.A.,  F.R.G.S.  Crown 
8vo.,  pp.  182,  cloth.  7s.  6d. 

Charnock. — YERBA  NOMINAL?: A  ;  or  Words'1  derived  from  Proper  Names. 
By  RICHARD  STEPHEN  CHARNOCK,  Ph.  Dr.  F.S.A.,  etc.  8vo.  pp.  326,  cloth.  14*. 

Chaucer  Society's  Publications.    First  Series. 

A  Six-Text  Print  of  Chaucer's  Canterbury  Tales,  in  parallel  columns,  from 
the  following  MSS. :— 1.  The  Ellesmere.  2.  The  Hengwrt,  154.  3.  The  Cambridge 
Univ.  Libr.  Gg.  4,  27.  4.  The  Corpus  Christi  College,  Oxford.  5.  The 
Petworth.  (5.  The  Lansdowne,  851.— Part  I.  The  Prologue  and  Knight's 
Tale.  (Each  of  the  above  Texts  are  also  published  separately.) 
Second  Series. 

1 .  ON  EARLY  ENGLISH  PRONUNCIATION,  with  especial  reference  to  Shakes- 

peare and  Chaucer,  containing  an  investigation  of  the  Correspondence  of  Writing 
with  Speech  in  England,  from  the  Anglo-Saxon  period  to  the  present  day,preceded 
by  a  systematic  notation  of  all  spoken  sounds,  by  means  of  the  ordinary  print- 
ing types.  Including  a  re-arrangement  of  Prof.  F.  J.  Child's  Memoirs  on  the 
Language  of  Chaucer  and  Gower,  and  Reprints  of  the  Rare  Tracts  by  Salesbury 
on  English,  1547,  and  Welch,  1567,  and  by  Barcley  on  French,  1521.  By 
ALEXANDER  J.  ELLIS,  F.R.S.,  etc.,  etc.  Parti.  On  the  Pronunciation  of  the 
xivth,  xvith,  xvnth,  and  xvmth  centuries.  10s. 

2.  ESSAYS  ON  CHATJCER  ;  His  "Words  and  Works.     Part  I.     1.  Ebert's 

Review  of  Sandras's  E'tude  sur  Chaucer,  considere  comme  Imitattur  des  Trouveres, 
translated  by  4.  W.  Van  Rees  Hoets,  M.A.-,  Trinity  Hall,  Cambridge,  and  revised 
by  the  Author. — II.  A  Thirteenth  Century  Latin  Treatise  on  the  Chilindre:  "  For 
by  my  chilindre  it  is  prime  of  day  "  (Shipmannes  Tale).  Edited,  with  a  Trans- 
lation, by  Mr.  EDMUND  BROCK,  and  illustrated  by  a  Wocdcut  of  the  Instrument 
from  the  Ashmole  MS.,  1522. 

3.  A    TEMPORARY   PREFACE    to    the    Six.- Text   Edition   of    Chaucer's 

Canterbury  Tales.  Part  I.  Attempting  to  show  the  true  order  of  the  Tales,  and 
the  Days  and  Stages  of  the  Pilgrimage,  etc.,  etc.  By  F.  J.  FURXIVALL,  Esq., 
M.A.,  Trinity  Hall,  Cambridge.  a 

Childers. — KHI;DDAKA"PATHA.  *A  Pali  T<ext,  with  a  Translation  and 
Notes.  By  R.  C.  CHILDERS,  late  of  the  Ceylon  Civil  Service.  Svo.  pp.  32, 
stitched.  Is.  6d. 


S^and  60,  Paternoster  Row,  London.-  7 

Childefrs. — A  PALI-ENGLISH  DICTIONARY,  with  Sanskrit  Equivalents, 
and  with  numerous  Quotations,  Extracts,  and  References.  Compiled  by  R.  C. 
CHILDEUS,  late  of  the  Ceylon  Civil  Service.  [In  preparation. 

Chronique  DE  ABOU-DJAFAR- MOHAMMED -BEN-DJARIR-BEN-YEZID  TABARI. 
Traduite  par  Monsieur  HERMANN  ZOTENBERG.  Vol.  I.,  8vo.  pp.  608,  sewed. 
7s.  6d.  ( To  be  completed  in  Four  Volumes .) 

Oolenso. — FIRST  STEPS  IN  ZULU-KAFIR  :  An  Abridgement  of  the  Ele- 
mentary Grammar  of  the  Zulu-Kafir  Language.  By  the  Right  Rev.  JOHN  "W. 
COLENSO,  Bishop  of  Natal.  8vt£  pp.  86,  cloth.  Ekukanyeni,  1859.  4s.  6d. 

Colenso. — ZULU-EXGLISH  DICTIONARY.  By  the  Eight  Rev.  JOHN  W.  Co- 
LEXSO,  Bishop  of  Natal.  8vo.  pp.  viii.  and  552,  sewed.  Pietermaritzburg,1861.  15s. 

Colenso. — FIRST  ZULU-KAFIR  READING  BOOK,  two  parts  in  one.  ->  By  the 
Right  Rev.  JOHN  W.  COLENSO,  Bishop  of  Natal.  16mo.  pp.  44,  sewed.  Natal.  Is. 

Colenso. — SECOND  ZULU-KAFIR  READING  BOOK.  By  the  same.  16mo. 
pp.  108,  sewed.  Natal.  3s. 

Colenso. — FOURTH  ZULU-KAFIR  READING  BOOK.  By  the  same.  8vo. 
pp.  160,  cloth.  Natal,  1859.  7s. 

Colenso. — Three  Native  Accounts  of  the  Visits  of  the  Bishop  of  Natal 

in  September  and  October,  1859,  to  Upmande,  King  of  the  Zulus  ;  with  Expla- 
natory Notes  and  a  Literal  Translation,  afci  a  Glossary  of  all  the  Zulu  Words 
employed  in  the  same :  designed  fo'>the  use  of  Students  of  the  Zulu  Language. 
By  the  Right  Rev.  JOHN  W.  COLENSO,  Bishop  of  Natal.  16mo.  pp.  160,  stiff 
cover.  Natal,  Maritzburg,  *860.  4s.  6d. 

Coleridge. — A  GLOSSARIAL  INDEX  to  the  Printed  English  Literature  of 
the  Thirteenth  Century.  By  HERBERT  COLERIDGE,  Esq.  8vo.  pp.  104,  cloth. 
2s.  6d. 

Colleccao  de  Yocabulos  e  Frases  usados  na  Provincia  de  S.  Pedro, 
do  Rio  Grande  do  Sul,  no  Brasil.  12mo.  pp.  32,  sewed.  Is. 

Contopoulos. — A  LEXICON  OF  MODERN  GREEK- ENGLISH   AND   ENGLISH 

MODERN  GREEK.     By  N.  CONTOPOULOS. 
Part  I.  Modern  Greek-English.     8vo.  cloth,  pp.  460.      ]2s. 
Part  II.  English-Modern  Greek.     8vo.  cloth,  pp.  582.     15*. 

Dennys. — CHINA  AND  JAPAN.  A  complete  Guide  to  the  Open  Ports  of 
those  countries,  together  with  Pekin,  Yeddo,  Hong  Kong,  and  Macao ;  forming 
a  Guide  Book  and  Vade  Mecum  for  Travellers,  Merchants,  and  Residents  in 
general;  with  56  Maps  and  Plans.  By  WM.  FREDERICK  MAYERS,  F.  R.G.S. 
H.M.'s  Consular  Service ;  N.*B.  DENNYS,  late  H.M.'s  Consular  Service ;  and 
CHARLES  KING,  Lieut.  Royal  Marine  Artillery.  Edited  by  N.  B.  DENNYS. 
In  one  volume.  8vo.  pp.  600,  cloth.  £2  2s. 

Dbhne. — A  ZULU-KAFIR  DICTIONARY,  etymological!^  explained,  with 

copious  Illustrations  and  examples,  preceded  by  an  introduction  on  the  Zulu- 
Kafir  Language.  By  the  Rev.  J.  L.  DOHNE.  Royal  8vo.  pp.  xlii.  and  418, 
sewed.  Cape  Town,  1857.  21s. 

Db'hne. — 'I*HE  FOUR  GOSPELS  IN  ZULU.  By  the  Rev.  J.  L.  DOHNE, 
Missionary  to  the'American  Board,  C.F.M.  8vo.  pp.  208,  cloth.  Piejermaritz- 
burg,  1866.  5s. 

Early  English  Text  Society' &  Pu'blica&ons. 

1.  EARLY  >  ENGLISH   ALLITERATIVE  POEMS.       In  the   West-Midland 

Dialect  of  the  Fourteenth  Century.     Edited  by  R.  MORRIS?  Esq.,  from  an 
unique  Cottonian  MS.    *l6f)l  * 

2.  ARTHUR  (about  1440  A.D.).     Edited  by  F.  J.  FURNIVALL,  Esq., 

from  the  Marquis  of  Bath's  unique  M.S.     4s. 


8  Linguistic  Publications  of  Trubner  $\  Co. 

Early  English  Text  Society's  Publications — continued. 

3.  ANE  COMPENDIOUS  AND  BREUE  TRACTATE  CONCERN YNG  YE  OFFICE 

AND  DEWTIE  OF  KYNGIS,  etc.  By  WILLIAM  LAUDER.  (1556  A.D.)  Edited 
by  F.  HALL,  Esq.,  D.C.L.  4s. 

4.  SIR   GA WAYNE   AND   THE   GREEN  KNIGHT  (about    1320-30   A.D.). 

Edited  by  R.  MORRIS,  Esq.,  from  an  unique  Cottonian  MS.     10s. 

5.  OF  THE  ORTHOGRAPHIE  AND  CONGRUITIE  OF  THE  BRITAN  TONGUE'; 

a  treates,  noe  shorter  than  necessarie,  for  the  Schooles,  be  ALEXANDER  HUME. 
Edited  for  the  first  time  from  the  uniqusiMS.  in  the  British  Museum  (about 
1617  A.D.),  by  HENRY  B.  WHEATLEY,  Esq.  "4s. 

6.  LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAIK.     Edited  from  the  unique  MS.  in  the  Cam- 

bridge University  Library  (ab.  1500),  by  the^ev.  WALTER  W.  GKEAT,  M.  A.  8s. 

7.  THE  STORY  OF  GENESIS  AND  EXODUS,  an  Early  English  Song,  of 

about  1250  A.D.  Edited  for  the  first  time  from  the  unique  MS.  in  the  Library 
of  Corpus  Christi  College,  Cambridge,  by  II.  MORRIS,  Esq.  8s. 

8  MORTE  ARTHURE  ;  the  Alliterative  Version.  Edited  from  ROBERT.? 
THORNTON'S  unique  MS.  (about  1440  A.D.)  at  Lincoln,  by  the  Rev.  GEORGE 
PERRY,  M>.A.,  Prebendary  of  Lincoln.  7s. 

9.  ANIMADVERSIONS  UPFON  THE  ANNOTACIONS  AND  CORRECTIONS  OF 
SOME  IMPERFECTIONS  OF  IMPHESSIONES  OF  CHAUCER'S  WOKKES,  reprinted 
in  1598;  by  FRANCIS  THVNNE.  Edited  from  the  unique  MS.  in  the 
Bridgewater  Library.  By  G.1  ri.  KINGSLEY,  Esq.,  M.D.  4s.  ,. 

10.  MERLIN,  OR  THE  EARLY  HISTORY  OF  KING  ARTHUR.    Edited  for  the 

.     first  time  from  the  unique  MS.  in  the  Cam.hridge  University  Library  (about 
1450  A.D.),  by  HENRY  B.  WHEATLEY,  Esq.     Part  I.     2s.  6d. 

11.  THE  MONARCHE,  and  other  Poems  cyf  Sir  David  Lyndesay.  Edited 

from  the  first  edition  by  JOHNE  SKOTT,  in  1552,  by  FITZEDWARD  HALL, 
Esq.,  D.C.L.  Part  I.  3s.  • 

12.  THE  WRIGHT'S  CHASTE  WIFE,  a  Merry  Tale,  by  Adam  of  Cobsam 

(about  1462  A.D.),  from  the  unique  Lambeth  MS.  306.  Edited  for  the  first 
time  by  F.  J.  FURNIVALL,  Esq.,  M.A.  Is. 

13.  SEINTE  MARHERETE,  )>E  MELDEN  ANT  MARTYR.     Three  Texts  of  aK 

1200, 1310,  1330  A.D.  First  edited  in  1862,  by  the  Rev.  OSWALD  COCKAYNE, 
M.A.,  and  now  re-issue/i.  2s. 

14.  KYNG  HORN,  with  fragments  of  Floriz  and  Blanucheflur,  and  the 

Assumption  of  the  Blessed  Virgin.  Edited  from  the  MS.  in  the  Library  of 
the  University  of  Cambridge  and  the  British  Museum,  by  the  Rev.  J.  RAWSON 
LUMBY.  3s.  6d. 

15.  POLITICAL,  RELIGIOUS,  AND  LOVE  POEMS,  from  the  Lambeth  MS., 

No.  306,  and  other  sources.    Edited  by  F.  J.  FURNIVALL,  Esq.,  M.A.    7s.  6d. 

16.  A  TRETICE  IN  ENGLISH  breuely  drawe  out  of  ]>  book  of  ftuintis 

essencijs  in  Latyn,  J>  Hermys  ]>  prophete  and  king  of  Egipt  after  )?  flood 
of  Noe,  fader  of  Philosophris,  hadde  by  reuelaciouw  of  .an  aungil  of  God  to  him 
sente.  Edited  from  the  Sloane  MS.  73,  by  F.  J.  FURNIVALL,  Esq.,  M.A.  Is. 

17.  PARALLEL  EXTRACTS  from  29  Manuscripts  of  PIERS  PLOWMAN,  with 

Comments,  and  a  Proposal  for  the  Society's  Three-text  edition  of  this  Poem. 
By.  the  Rev.  W.  SKEAT,  M.A.  Is. 

18.  HALI  MEIDENHEAD,  about  1206  A.D.    Edited  for  the  first  time  from 

the  MS.  (with  a  translation)  by  the  Rev.  OSWALD  COCKAYNE,  M.A.     Is. 

19.  THE  MONARCHE,  and  other  Poems  of  Sir  David  Lyndesay.  Part  II., 

the  Conjplaynt  of  the  King's  Papingo,  and  other  minor  Poems.  Edited  from 
the  First  Edition  by1?.  HALL,  Fsq.,  D.C.iK  «3s.  6d. 

20.  SOME  TREATISES  BY  RICHARD  ROLLE  DE  HAMPOLE.     Edited  from 

Robertof  Thornton's  MS.  ab.  1440  A.D. ,  by  Rev.  GEORGE  G.  PERRY,  M.A.  1*. 


8  ,and  60,  Paternoster  Row,  London.  9 

Early  'English  Text  Society's  Publications— continued,. 

21.  MERLIN,  OR  THE  EARLY  HISTORY  OF  KING  ARTHUR.  Part  II.  Edited 

by  HENRY  B.  WHEATLEY,  Esq.     4s. 

22.  THE  ROMANS  OF  PARTENAY,  OR  LUSIGNEN.    Edited  for  the  first  time 

from  the  unique  MS.  in  the  Library  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge,  by  the 
Rev.  W.  W.  SKEAT.  M.A.  6s. 

£'3.  DAN  MICHEL'S  AYENBITE  OF  INWYT,  or  Remorse  of  Conscience,  in 
the  Kentish  dialect,  1340  A.D.  Edited  from  the  unique  MS.  in  the  British 
Museum,  by  RICHARD  MORRJS,  Esq.  10s.  6d. 

24.  HYMNS  OF  THE  VIRGIN  ..AND  CHRIST  ;  THE  PARLIAMENT   OF  DEVILS, 

and  Other  Religious  Poems.  Edited  from  the  Lambeth  MS.  853,  by  F.  J. 
FURNIVALL,  M.A.  3s. 

25.  THE  STATIONS  OF  ROME,"  and  the  Pilgrim's  Sea- Voyage  and  Sea- 

Sickness,  with  Clene  Maydenhod.  Edited  from  the-  Vernon  and  PoVkington 
MSS.,  etc.,  by  F.  J.  FURNIVALL,  Esq.,  M.A.  Is. 

26.  RELIGIOUS  PIECES  IN   PROSE  AND  VERSE.      Containing   Dan  Jon 

Gaytrigg's  Sermon ;  The  Abbaye  of  S.  Spirit ;  Sayne  Jon,  and  other  pieces 
in  the  Northern  Dialect.  Edited  from  Robert  of  Thorntone's  MS.  (ab.  1460 
A.D.)  by  the  Rev.  G.  PERRY,  M.A.  2s. 

27.  MANTPULUS  VOCABULORUM  :  a  Rhyming  Dictionary  of  the  English 

Language,  by  PETER  LEVINS  (1570).  Edited,  with  an  Alphabetical  Index, 
by  HENRY  B.  WHEATLEY.  12s.  ,,,, 

28.  THE  VISION  OF  WILLIAM  CONC? #NTNG "TIERS  PLOWMAN,  together  with 

Vita  de  Dowel,  Dobet  et  Dobest.  1362  A.D. ,  by  WILLIAM  LANGLAND.  The 
earliest  or  Vernon  Text ;  "^ext  A.  Edited  from  the  Vernon  MS.,  with,  full 
Collations,  by  Rev.  W.  W.  SKEAT,  M.A.  "Is. 

29.  OLD  ENGLISH  HOMILIES  AND  HOMILETIC  TREATISES.    (Sawles  Warde, 

and  the  Wohunge  of  Ure  Lauerd  :  Ureisuns  of  Ure  Louerd  and  of  Ure  Lefdi, 
etc.)  of  the  Twelfth  and  Thirteenth  Centuries.  Edited  from  MSS.  in  the  Brit- 
ish Museum,  Lambeth,  and  Bodleian  Libraries  ;  with  Introduction,  Transla- 
tion, and  Notes.  By  RICHARD  MoRRis.  First  Series.  Part  I.  7*. 

30.  PIERS,  THE  PLOUGHMAN'S  CREDE  (about  1394).     Edited  from  the 
:*        MSS.  by  the  Rev.  W.  W.  SKEAT,  M.A.     2s. 

31.  INSTRUCTIONS  FOR  PAKISH  PRIESTS.     By  JOHN  MYRC.     Edited  from 

Cotton  M.S.  Claudius  A.  II.,  by  EDWARD  PEAC,OCK,  Esq.,  F.S.A.,  etc.,  etc.  4*. 

32.  THE  BABEES  BOOK,  Aristotle's  ABC,  TJrbanitatis,  Stans  Puer  ad 

Mensam,  The  Lytille  Childreues  Lytil  Boke.  THE  BOKES  OF  NURTURE  of 
Hugh  Rhodes  and  John  Russell,  Wynkyn  de  Worde's  Boke  of  Kervynge,  The 
Booke  of  Demeanor,  The  Boke  of  Curtasye,  Seager's  Schoole  of  Vertue,  etc., 
etc.  With  some  French  and  Latin  Poems  on  like  subjects,  and  some  Fore- 
words on  Education  in  Early  England.  Edited  by  F.  J.  FURNIVALL,  M.A., 
Trin.  Hall,  Cambridge.  15s. 

33.  THE  BOOK  OF  THE  KNIGHT  DE  LA  Toms,  LANDRY,  1)372.     A  Father's 

Book  for  his  Daughters,  Edited  from  the  Harleian  MS.  1764,  by  THOMAS 
WRIGHT,  Esq.,  M.A.,  and  Mr.  WILLIAM  ROSSITER.  8s. 

34.  OLD  ENGLISH  HOMILIES  AND  HOMILETIC  TREATISES.   (Sawles  Warde, 

and  the  Wohunge  of  Ure  Lauerd  :   Ureisuns  of  Ure  Louerd  and  of  Ure  Lefdi, 
.etc.)  of  the  Twelfth  and  Thirteenth  Centuries.     Edited  from  MSS.  in  the 
British  Museum,  Lambeth,  and  Bod^ian  Libraries ;  with  Introduction,  Trans- 
lation, and  Notes,  by  RICH  VRD  -MORRIS.     First  Series.    Part  2.     8s. 

35.  SIR  DAVID  LYNDESAY'S  WORKS.    T'ART  3.     The  Historic  of  ane 

Nobil  'and  Wailzeand  Sqvyer,  WILLIAM  MELDRUM,  umqvhyle  Laird  of 
Cleische  and  Bynnio,  compylit  be  Sir  DAUID  LYNIJESAY  of  ,the  Mont  alias 
Lyoun  King  of  Armes.  *  '.With  the  Testament  Df  the  said  Williame  Mel- 
drum,  Squyer,  compylit  alswa  be  Sir  Dauid  Lyndesay,  etc.  Edited  by  F. 
HALL,  D.C.L.  2«. 


10  Linguistic  Publications  of  Triibner  <f"  Co. 

Early  English  English  Text  Society's  Publications — continued. 

36.  MERLIN,   OR  THE  EARLY  HISTORY   OF   KING  ARTHUR.     A  Prose 

Romance  (about  1450-1460  A.D.),  edited  from  the  unique  MS.  in  the 
University  Library,  Cambridge,  by  HENRY  B.  AVHEATLEY.  With  an  Essay 
on  Arthurian  Localities,  by  J.  S.  STUAKT  GLENNIE,  Esq.  Partlll.  1869.  12s. 

37.  SIR   DAVID  LYNDESAY'S   WORKS.     Part  IV.     Ane  Satyre  of  the 

thrie  estaits,  in  commendation  of  vertew  and  vitvperation  of  vyce.  Mai  J 
be  Sir  DAVID  LINDESAY,  of  the  Mont,  alias  Lyon  King  of  Armes.  At 
Edinbvrgh.  Printed  be  Robert  Charteris,  1602.  Cvm  privilegio  regis. 
Edited  by  F.  HALL,  Esq.,  D.C.L.  4s.  fc 

38.  THE    VISION    or    WILLIAM    CONCERNING    PIERS    THE    PLOWMAN, 

together  with  Vita  de  Dowel,  Dobet,  et  Dobest,  Secundum  Wit  et  Resoun, 
by  WILLIAM  LANGLAND  (1377  A.D.).  Ttle  "  Crowley"  Te"xt;  or  Text  B. 
Edited  from  MS.  Laud  Misc,  581,  collated  with  MS.  Rawl.  Poet.  38,  MS. 
B.  15.  17.  in  the'Library  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge,  MS.  Dd.  1.  17.  in 
the  Cambridge  University  Library,  the  MS.  in  Oriel  College,  Oxford,  MS. 
Bodley  814,  etc.  By  the  Rev.  WALTER  W.  SKEAT,  M.A.,  late  Fellow  of. 
Christ's  College,  Cambridge.  10s.  6d. 

89.  THE  "Gssi  HYSTORIALE"  OF  THE  DESTRUCTION  OF  TROY.  An 
Alliterative  Romance,  translated  from  Guido  De  Colonna's  "  Hystoria 
Troiana."  Now  first  edited  from  the  unique  MS.  in  the  Hunterian  Museum, 
University  of  Glasgow,  by  the  Rev.  GEO.  A.  P ANTON  and  DAVID  DONALDSON. 
Part  I.  10s.  6d. 

Extra  &>ries.  < 

1.  THE  EOMANCE  or  WILLIAM  OF  PALERNE  (otherwise  known  as  the 

Romance  of  William  and  the  Werwolf).  Translated  from  the  French  at  the 
command  of  Sir  Humphrey  de  Bohun,  about  A.D.  1350,  to  which  is  added  a 
fragment  of  the  Alliterative  Romance  ..of  Alisaunder,  translated  from  the 
Latin  by  the  same  author,  about  A.D.  1340;  the  former  re-edited  from  the 
unique  MS.  in  the  Library  of  King's  College,  Cambridge,  the  latter  now 
first  edited  from  the  unique  MS.  in  the  Bodleian  Library,  Oxford.  By  the 
Rev.  WALTER  W.  SKEAT,  M.A.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  xliv.  and  328.  £\  6s. 
2a.C-N  EARLY  ENGLISH  PRONUNCIATION,  with  especial  reference  to 
Shakespeare  and  Chaucer  ;  containing  an  investigation  of  the  Correspondence 
of  Writing  with  Speech  in  England,  from  the  Anglo-Saxon  period  to  the 
present  day,  preceded  by  a  systematic  Notation  of  all  Spoken  Sounds  by 
means  of  the  ordinary  Printing  Types ;  including  a  re-arrangement  of  Prof. 
F.  3 .  Child's  Memoirs  on  the  Language  of  Chaucer  and  Gower,  and  reprints 
of  the  rare  Tracts  by  Salesbury  on  English,  1547,  and  Welch,  1567,  and  by 
Barcley  on  French,  1521.  By  ALEXANDER  J.  ELLIS,  F.R.S.  Part  I.  On 
the  Pronunciation  of  the  xivth,  xvith,  xvnth,  andxviiith  centuries.  8vo. 
sewed,  pp.  viii.  and  416.  10s. 

3.  CAXTON'S  BOOK  OF  CURTESYE,  printed  at  Westminster  about  1477-8, 

A.D.,  and  now  reprinted,  with  two  MS.  copies  of  the  same  treatise,  fi^ra  the 
Oriel  MS.  79,*nd  the  Balliol  MS.  354.  F.dited  by  FREDERICK  J.  FURNI- 
VALL,  M.A.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  xii.  and  58.  5s. 

4.  THE  LAY  OF  HAVELOK  THE   DANE;    composed  in  the  reign  of 

Edward  I.,  about  A.D.  1280.  Formerly  edited  by  Sir  F.  MADDEN  for  the 
Roxburghe  Club,  and  now  re-edited  from  the  unique  MS.  Laud  JTHsc.  108,  in 
the  Bodleian  Library,  Oxford,  by  the  Rev.  WALTER  Wr  SKEAT,  M.A.  8vo. 
seved,  pp.  Iv.  and  160.  10s.  f 

5.  CHAUCER'S  TRANSLATION  OF  BOET^TIUS'S  "  DE  CONSOLATIONS 
PHILOSOPHIE."  Edited  from"  the  additional  MS.  10,340  in  the  British 
Mnseum.  Collated  with  the  Cambridge  Univ.  Libr.  MS.  lie  3.  21.  By 
RICH  An  D  MORRIS.  8vo.  12s.  0 

6  THE  ROHAN CE  OF  ;EH:E  CnsifELERE  ASSKJNE.  Ee-edited  from  the 
unique  manuscript  in  the  British  Museum,  with  a  Preface,  Notes,  and 
Glossarial  Index,  by  HENRY  H.  GIBBS,  Esq.,  M.A.  8vo.  sewed,  pp. 
xviii.  and  38.  3s. 


§  and  60,  Paternoster  Row,  London.  11 

Early'  English  Text  Society's  Publications — continued. 

7.  Qy  EARLY  ENGLISH  PRONUNCIATION,  with  especial  reference  to 

Shakspere  and  Chaucer  ;  containing  an  investigation  of  the  Correspondence 
of  Writing  with  Speech  in  England,  from  the  Anglo-Saxon  period  to  the 
present  day,  preceded  by  a  systematic  Notation  of  all  Spoken  Sounds  by 
means  of  the  ordinary  Printing  Types  ;  including  a  re-arrangement  of  Prof. 
F.  J.  Child's  Memoirs  on  the  Language  of  Chaucer  and  Gower,  and  Reprints 
of  the  rare  Tracts  by  Salesbury  on  English,  1547,  and  Welsh,  1567,  and  by 
Barcley  on  French,  1521.  By  ALEXANDER  J.  ELLIS,  F.R.S.,  etc.,  etc. 
Part  If.  On  the  Pronunciation  of  the  xm  th  and  previous  centuries,  of 
Anglo-Saxon,  Icelandic^Old  Norse  and  Gothic,  with  Chronological  Tables  of 
the  Value  of  Letters  and  Expression  of  Sounds  in  English  Writing.  10s. 

8.  QUEENL  ELizABETHES(tAcHADEMY,  by  Sir  HUMPHREY   GILBERT. 

A  Booke  of  Precedence,  The  Ordering  of  a  Funerall,  etc.  Varying  Versions 
of  the  Good  Wife,  The  Wise  Man,  etc.  Maxims,  Lydgate's  Order  of  Fools, 
A  Poem  on  Heraldry,  Occleve  on  Lords'  Men,  etc.,  Edited  by  F.  J. 
FURNIVALL,  M.A.,  Trin.  Hall.,  Camb.  With  Essays  on  Early  Italian  and 
German  Books  of  Courtesy,  by  W.  M.  ROSSETTI,  Esq,,  and  E.  OSWALD, 
Esq.  Svo.  13s. 

9.  THE  FRATEKNITYE  OF  YACABONDES,  by  JOHN  AWI>ELEY  (licensed 

in  1560-1,  imprinted  then,  and  in  15(55),  from  the  edition  of  1575  in  the 
Bodleian  Library.  A  Caueat  or  Warening  for  Commen  Cursetors  vulgarely 
called  Vagabones,  by  THOMAS  H  ARMAJ>T.,  ESCIUIERE.  From  the  3rd  edition  of 
1567,  belonging  to  Henry  Hutb^Esq., 'collated  with  the  2nd  edition  of  1567, 
in  the  Bodleian  Library,  Oxford^and  with  the  reprint  of  the  4th  edition  of 
1573.  A  Sermon  in  Praise  of  Thieves  and  Thievery,  by  PAKSON  HABEN  oa 
HYBERDYNE,  from  the  Lansdowne  MS.  98,  and  Cotton  Vesp.  A.  25.  Those 
parts  of  the  Groundworke  of  Conny-catching  (ed.  1592),  that  differ  from 
Harman's  Caueat.  Edited  by  EDWARD  VILES  &  F.  J.  FURNIVALL.  Svo. 
7*.  6d. 

Edda  Saemundar  Hinns  Froda — The  Edda  of  Saemund  the  Learned. 

From  the  Old  Norse  or  Icelandic.  Part  I.  with  a  Mythological  Index.  12mo.  pp. 
152,  cloth,  3s.  Gd.  Part  II.  with  Index  of  Persons  and  Places.  By  BENJAMIX 
THORPE.  12mo.  pp.  \iii.  and  172,  cloth.  1866.  4s. ;  or  in  1  Vol.  complete,  7*.  Gd. 

Eger  and  Grime;  an  Early  English  Romance.  Edited  from  Bishop 
Percy's  Folio  Manuscript,  about  1650  A.D.  By  JOHN  W.  HALES,  M.A., 
Fellow  and  late  Assistant  Tutor  of  Christ's  College,  Cambridge,  and  FREDERICK. 
J.  FURNIVALL,  M.A.,  of  Trinity  Hall,  Cambridge.  1  vol.  4to.  (only  100  copies 
printed),  bound  in  the  Roxburgh  style,  pp.  6J.  Price  10s.  6d. 

Eitel. — HANDBOOK  FOR  THE  STUDENT  OF  CHINESE  BUDDHISM.  By  the 
Rev.  E.  J.  EITEL,  of  the  London  Missionary  Society.  In  1  vol.  Svo.  [/« the  press. 

Elliot, — THE  HISTORY  OF  INDIA,  as  told  by  its  own  Historians.     The 

Muhammadan  Period.  Edited  from  the  Posthumous  Pampers  of  the  late  Sir  H. 
M.  ELLIOT,  K.C.B.,  East  India  Company's  Bengal  Civil  Service,  by  Prof. 
JOHN  DOWSON,  M.R.A.S.,  Staff  College,  Sandhurst.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  With  a 
Portrait  of  Sir  H.  M.  Elliot.  Svo.  pp  xxxii.  and  542,  x.  and  580,  cloth.  18s.  each. 

Elliot. — MEMOIRS  ON  THE  HISTORY,  FOLK-LORE,  AND  DISTRIBUTION  OF 
THE  RACES  OF  ^THE  NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCES  OF  INDIA  ;  being  an 
amplified  Edition  of  the  original  Supplementary  Glossary  of  Indian  Terms. 
By  the  late  Sir  HENRY  M.  ELLIOT,  K.C.B. ,  of  the  Hon.  East  India  Company's 
Bengal  Civil  Service.  Kdited,  revised,  and  re-arranged,  by  JOHN  BEAMES, 
M.K.A.S.,  Bengal  Civil  Service;  Member  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  of 
the  Asiatic  Societies  of  Paris  and  Bengal,  and  of  the  Philological  Society  of 
London.  In  2  vols.  detiiy.  8vo.,  pp.  xx.,  370,  ^nd  396,  cloth.  With  two 
Lithographic  Plates,  one  full-page  coloured  Map,  and  three  large  coloured 
folding  Maps.  36*. 


12  Linguistic  Publications  of  Trubner  </•  Co. 

Ethnological  Society  of  London  (The  Journal  of  the).    Edited  by 

Professor  HUXLEY,  F.R.S.,  President  of  the  Society  ;  GEORGE  BUSK,  Esq., 
F.R.S.  ;  Sir  JOHN  LUBBOCK,  Bart.,  F.  R.S.  ;  Colonel  A.  LANE  Fox,  Hon.  Sec.; 
THOMAS  WEIGHT,  Esq.,  Hon.  Sec.;  HYDE  CLAKKE,  Esq.;  Sub-Editor;  and 
Assistant  Secretary,  J.  H.  LAMPREY,  Esq.  Published  Quarterly. 

No.  I.     April,  1869.     8vo.  pp.  88,  sewed.     3s. 

CONTENTS  OF  THE  APKII,  NUMBER,  1869.  —  Flint  Instruments  from  Oxfordshire  and  the  Isle  of 
Thanet.  (Illustrated.)  By  Colonel  A.  Lane  Fox.—  The  Westerly  Drifting  of  Nomads.  By  H.  H<. 
Howorth.—  On  the  Lion  Shilling.  By  Hyde  Clarke.—  Letter  on  a  Marble  Armlet.  By  H.  W. 
Edwards.  —  On  a  Bronze  Spear  from  Lough  Gur,  Limerick.  (Illustrated.)  By  Col.  A.  Lane  Fox. 
—  On  Chinese  Charms.  By  W.  H.  Black.  —  Proto-ethiiic  Condition  of  Asia  Minor.  By  Hyde 
Clarke.—  On  Stone  Implements  from  the  Cape.  (Illustrated.)  By  Sir  J.  Lubbock.—  Cromlechs 
and  Megalithic  Structures.  By  H.  M.  Westropp.  —  Remarks  on  Mr.  Westropp's  Paper.  By 
Colonel  A.  Lane  Fox.  —  Stone  Implements  from  San  Jos<5.  By  A.  Steffens.—  On  Child-bearing  in 
Australia  and  New  Zealand.  By  J.  Hooker,  M.B.  —  On  a  Pseudo-cromlech  on  Mount  Alexander, 
Australia.  By  Acheson.  —  The  Cave  Cannibals  of  Soud  Africa.  By  Layiand.  —  Reviews  : 
Wallace's  ^falay  Archipelago  (with  illustrations)  ;  Fryer's  Hill  Tribes  of  India  (with  an  illustra- 
tion) ;  Reliquiae  Aquitanicoe,  etc.  —  Method  of  Photographic  Measurement  of  the  Human  Frame 
(with  an  illustration).  By  J.  H.  Lamprey.—  Notes  and  Queries. 
No.  II.  July,  1869.  8vo.  pp.  117,  sewed.  3s. 

CONTENTS  OF  THE  JULY  NUMBER.—  Ordinary  Meeting,  Mareh  9,  1869  (held  at  the  Museum  of 
Practical  Geology),  Professor  Huxley,  F.R.S.  ,  President,  in  the  Chair.  Opening  Address  of  the* 
President.  —  On  the  Characteristics  of  the  population  of  Central  and  South  India  (Illustrated). 
By  Sir  Walter  Elliot,  —  On  the  Races  of  India  as  traced  in  existing  Tribes  and  Castes  (With  a 
Map).  By  G.  Campbell,  Esq.  —  Remarks  by  Mr.  James  Fergusson.—  Remarks  by  Mr.  Walter 
Dendy.  —  Ordinary  Meeting,  January  23rd,  1869.  Professor  Huxley,  F.R.S.,  President,  in  the 
Chair.  On  the  Lepchas.  By  Dr.  A.  Campbell,  late  Superintendent  of  Darjeeling.—  On  Pre- 
historic Archaeology  of  India  (Illustrated).  By  Colonel  Meadows  Taylor,  C.S.I.,  M.R.A.S., 
M.R.I.  A.,  etc.—  Appendix  I.  Extract  from  f'oscription  of  the  Pandoo  Coolies  in  Malabar.  By  J. 
Babington,  Esq.  (Read  before  the  Literary-society  of  Bombay,  December  20th,  182fy  Published 
in  Volume  III.  of  the  Society's  Transactions).—  Apfendix  II,  Extract  from  a  letter  from  Captain, 
now  Colonel,  A.  Doria,  dated  Camp  Katangrich,  April  12th,  1852.  —  On  some  of  the  Mountain 
Tribes  of  the  North  Western  frontier  of  India.  By  Majo£  Fosbery,  V.C.—  On  Permanence  of 
type  in  the  Human  Race.  By  Sir  William  Denison.  —  Notes  and  Reviews.  —  Ethnological  Notes 
and  Queries.  —  Notices  of  Ethnology. 

No.  III.  October,  1869.     pp.  137,  sewed.     3s- 

CONTENTS  OF  THE  OCTOBER  NUMBER.  —  On  the  Excavation  of  a  large  raised  Stone  Circle  or 
Barrow,  near  the  Village  of  Wurreegaon,,  one  mile  from  the  military  station  of  Kamptee, 
Central  Provinces  of  India  (Illustrated).  .By  Major  George  Godfrey  Pearse,  Royal  Artillery.  — 
Remarks  by  Dr.  Hooker  on  Dr.  Campbell's  paper.—  North-American  Ethnology  :  Address  of  the 
President.—  On  the  Native  Races  of  New  Mexico  (Illustrated).  By  Dr.  A.  W.  Bell.—  On  the 
Arapahoes,  Kiowas,  and  Comanches.  By  Morton  C.  Fisher.  —  The  North-American  Indians  :  a 
Sketch  of  some  of  the  hostile  Tribes  ;  together  with  a  brief  account  of  General  Sheridan's 
Campaign  of  1868  against  the  Sioux,  Cheyenne,  Arapahoe,  Kiowa,  and  Comancbe  Indians.  By 
William  Blackmore.  —  Notes  and  Reviews  :  "  The  Ethnological  Essays  of  William  E  wart  Gladstone  . 
Inventus  Mundi,  the  Gods  and  Men  of  the  Homeric  Age.  By  the  Sight  Hon.  William  Ewart 
Gladstone.  (The  Review  by  Hyde  Clarke,  Esq.)  —  Notes  and  Queries.  —  Classification  Committee. 

No.  IV.     January,  1870.     pp*.  98.     3s. 

CONTENTS  OF  THE  JANUARY  (1870)  NUMBER.  —  On  New  Zealand  and  Polynesian  Ethnology  : 
On  the  Social  Life  of  the  ancient  Inhabitants  of  New  Zealand,  and  on  the  national  character  it 
•was  likely  to  form.  By  Sir  George  Grey,  K.C.B.  —  Notes  on  the  Maories  of  New  Zealand  and 
some  Melanesians  of  the  south-west  Pacific.  By  the  Bishop  of  Wellington.  —  Observations  on 
the  Inhabitants  and  Antiquities  of  Easter  Island.  Ky  J.  L.  Palmer.—  On  the  westerly  drifting 
of  Nomades  from  the  fifth  to  the  nineteenth  century.  Part  II.  The  Seljuks,  Ghazdevides,  etc. 
By  H.  H.  Howorth,  Esq.  —  Settle  Cave  Exploration.—  Index.—  Contents.—  Report  of  the  Council. 
List  of  Fellows. 

Facsimiles  of  Two  Papyri  found  in  a  Tomb  at  Thebes.    "Wtth  a 

a  Translation  by'aAMUEL  BIRCH,  LL.D.,  F.S.A.,  Corresponding  Member  of 
the  Institute  of  France,  Academies  of  Berlin,  Herculaneum,  etc.,  and  an 
Account  of  their  Discovery.  By  A.  HENRY  RHIXD,  Esq.,  F.S.A.,  etc.  In 
large  folio,  pp.  30  of  text,  and  16  plates  coloured,  bound  in  cloth.  21s. 

Furnivall.  —  EDUCATION  IN  EARLY  ENGLAND.  Some  Notesr  used  as 
Forewords  to  a  Collection  of  Treatises  on  "  Manners  an£  Meals  in  the  Olden 
Time/'  for  the  Early  English  Text  Society.  By  FREDERICK  J.  FCJRNFVALL, 
M.A.,  Trinity  Hall,  Cambridge,  Member*"  of  '"'Council  of  the  Philological  and 
Early  English  Text  Societies.  8vo,  sewed,  pp.  74.  Is. 

Gesenius'  Hebrew  Grammar.     Translated  from  the  17th  Edition.     By 


Dr.  T.  J.  CpXANT.     With  grammatical  Exercises,,  and  a  Chrestomathy  by  the 
Translator.     8vo.  pp.  xv£  and  364,  Cloth.     loT.»5rf. 

Gesenius'  Hebrew  and  English  Lexicon  of  the  Old  Testament,  including 

the  Biblical  Chaldee,  from  the  Latin.     By  EDWARD  ROBINSON.     Fifth  Edition. 
8vo.  pp.  xii.  and  1*60,  cloth.     II.  5s. 


8,  and  60,  Paternoster  Row,  London.  13 

Goldstiicker. — A  DICTIONARY,  SANSKRIT  AND  ENGLISH,  extended  and 

improved  from  the  Second  Edition  of  the  Dictionary  of  Professor  H.  H.  WILSON, 
with  his  sanction  and  concurrence.  Together  with  a  Supplement,  Grammatical 
Appendices,  and  an  Index,  serving  as  a  Sanskrit- English  Vocabulary.  By 
THEODOR  GOLDSTUCKER.  Parts  I.  to  VI.  4to.  pp.  400.  1856-1863.  6s.  each. 
Goldstiicker. — A  COMPENDIOUS  SANSKRIT-ENGLISH  DICTIONARY,  for  the 

Use  of  those  who  intend  to  read  the  easier  Works  of  Classical  Sanskrit  Litera- 
ture.  By  THEODOR  GOLDSTUCKER.  Small  4to.  pp.  900,  cloth.    [In preparation. 

Goldstiicker. — PANINI  :  His  Place  in  Sanskrit  Literature.  An  Inves- 
tigation of  some  Literary  and  Chronological  Questions  which  may  be  settled  by 
a  study  of  his  Work.  A  separate  impression  of  the  Preface  to  the  Facsimile  of 
MS.  No.  17  in  the  Library  of  Her  Majesty's  Home  Government  for  India, 
which  contains  a  portion  of  tue  MANAVA-KALPA-SUTRA,  with  the  Commentary 
of  KUMARILA-SWAMIN.  By  THEODOR  GOLDSTUCKER.  Imperial  'jSvo.  pp. 
268,  cloth.  12s. 

Grammatography. — A  MANUAL  OF  BEFERENCE  to  the  Alphabets  of 
Ancient  and   Modern  Languages.     Based  on  the  German  Compilation  of  F. 
BALLHORN.     Royal  8vo.  pp.  80,  cloth.     7s.  6d. 
The  "  Grammatography"  is  offered  to  the  public  as  a  compendious  introduction  to  the  reading 

of  the  most  important  ancient  and  modern  languages..    Simple  in  its  design,  it  will  be  consulted 

with  advantage  by  the  philological  student,  the  amateur  linguist,  the  bookseller,  the  corrector  of 

the  press,  and  the  diligent  compositor. 

ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 

Afghan  (or  Pushto).  Czechian(or  Bohemian).  Hebrew  (current hand).  Polish. 

Amharic.  Danish.  He'iOVw  (Judseo-Ger-     Pushto  (or  Afghan). 

Anglo-Saxon."  Demotic.  •-,  Hungarian.          [man).Romaic(ModernGreek) 

Arabic.  Estrangelo.  Illyrian.  Russian. 

Arabic  Ligatures.  Ethiopic.  Irish.  Uunes. 

Aramaic.  Etruscan.  Italian,  (Old).  Samaritan. 

Archaic  Characters.  Georgian.  Japanese.  Sanscrit. 

Armenian.  German.  Javanese.  Servian. 

Assyrian  Cuneiform.  Glagolitic.  Lettish.  Slavonic  (Old). 

Bengali.  Gothic.  Mantshu.  Serbian  (or  Wendish). 

Bohemian  (Czechian).  Greek.  Medtin  Cuneiform.         Swedish. 

Bugts.  Greek  Ligatures.  Modern  Greek  (Romaic)  Syriac. 

Burmese.  Greek  (Archaic).  Mongolian.  Tamil. 

Canarese  (or  Carnataca).  Gujerati(orGuzzeratte).  Numidian.  Telugu. 

Chinese.  Hieratic.  OldSlavonic(orCyrillic).  Tibetan. 

Coptic.  Hieroglyphics.  Palmyrenian.  Turkish. 

C'pato-Glagolitic.  Hebrew.  Persian.  Wallachian. 

Cufic.  Hebrew  (Archaic).  Persian  Cuneiform.         "Wendish  (or  Serbian). 

Cyrillic  (or  Old  Slavonic).  Hebrew  (Rabbinical).  Phoenician.  Zend. 

Grey. — HANDBOOK   OF  AFRICAN,  AUSTRALIAN,  AND   POLYNESIAN   PHI- 
LOLOGY, as  represented  in  the  Library  of  His  Excellency  Sir   George  Grey, 
K.C.B.,    Her  Majesty's  High  Commissioner  of  the  Cape    Colony.       Classed, 
Annotated,  and  Edited  by  Sir  GEORGE  GREY  and  Dr.  H.  I.  BLEEK. 
Vol.  I.      Part  I.— South  Africa.     8vo.  pp.  186.     7s.  6rf. 

Vol.1.      Part  2.— Africa  (North  of  the  Tropic  of  Capricorn).    8vo.  pp.  70.    2s. 
Vol.  I.      Part  3.— Madagascar.    8vo.  pp.  24.     Is. 
Vol.  II.    Part  1. — Australia.     8vo.  pp.  iv.  and  44.     Is.  6d. 

Vol.  II.  Part  2. — Papuan  Languages  of  the  Loyalty  Islands  and  New  Hebrides,  compris- 
ing those  of  the  Islands  of  Nengone,  Lifu,  Aneitum,  Tana,  and 
others.  8vo.  p.  12.  6d. 

Vol.  II.    Part  3. — Fiji  Islands  and  Rotuma  (with  Supplement  to  Part  II.,  Papuan  Lan- 
guages, and  Part  I.,  Australia).    8vo.  pp.  34.     Is. 
Vol.  II.    Part  4.— New  Zealand,  the  Chatham  Islands,  and  Auckland  Islands.    8vo.  pp. 

76.    3s.  6d. 

Vol.  I*i    Part  4  (continuation}. — Polynesia  and  Borneo.     8vo.  pp.  77-154.    3s.  6d. 
Vol.  III.  Part  1.—  Manuscripts  and  Incunables.    8vo.  pp.  viii.  and  24.     2s. 
Vol.  IV.  Part  1.— -Early  Printed  Books.    England.     8vo.  pp.  vi.  and  266. 

Grey. — MAORI  MEMENTOS  :  being  a  Series  of  Addresses  presented  by 
the  Native  People  to  His  Excellency  Sir,  George  Grey,  K.C.B.,  F.R.S.  With 
Introductory  Remarks  and  Explanatory  Notes  ;  to  which  is  added  a  small  Collec- 
tion of  Laments,  etc.  By  CH.  OLIVER  B.  DAVIS.  8vo.  pp.  iv,  and  228,  cloth.  12*. 

Griffith. — SCENES  FROM  THE  ^AMAYANA,  MEGHADUTA,  ETC.(    Translated 

by  RALPH  T.  H.  GRIFFITH,  M.A.     Fcap.  8vo.  clottf,  pp.  200.     5s. 
CONTENTS. — Preface — Ayodhya — Ravan  Doomed — The  Birth  of  Rama — The  Heir  apparent — 
Manthara's  Guile— Dasaratha's  Oath — The  Step-mother— Mother  and  Son— The  Triumph  of 


14  Linguistic  Publications  of  Trubner  #c  Co. 

Love— Farewell?— The  Hermit's  Son— The  Trial  of  Truth— The  Forest— The  Rapecof  Sita— 
Rama's  Despair — The  Messenger  Cloud— Khumbakarna— The  Suppliant  Dove— True  Glory — 
Feed  the  Poor— The  Wise  Scholar. 

Grout. — THE  ISIZULU  :  a  Grammar  of  the  Zulu  Language  ;  accompanied 

with  an  Historical  Introduction,  also  with  an  Appendix.  By  Rev.  LEWIS  GROUT. 

8vo.  pp.  lii.  and  432,  cloth.     21s. 
Hang. — ESSAYS  ON  THE  SACRED  LANGUAGE,  WRITINGS,  AND  RELIGION  OF 

THE  PARSEES.      By  MARTIN   HAUG,  Dr.    Phil.   Superintendent   of  Sansknt 

Studies  in  the  Poona  College.     8vo.  pp.  278,  cloth.  [Out  of  print. 

Hang". — A  LECTURE  ON  AN  ORIGINAL  SPEECH  OF  ZOROASTER  (Yasna  45), 

with  remarks  on  his  age.     By   MARTIN  HAWS,  Ph.D.     8vo.  pp.  28,  sewed. 

Bombay,  1865.     2*. 
Hang. — OUTLINE  OF  A  GRAMMAR  OF  THE  ZEJSD  LANGUAGE.,   By  MARTIN 

HAXM,  Dr.  Phil.     8vo.  pp.  82,  sewed.     14s. 
Hang. — THE  AITAREYA  BRAHMANAH  OF  THE  RIG  VEDA  :  containing  the 

Earliest  Speculations  of  the  Brahmans  on  the  meaning  of  the  Sacrificial  Prayers, 
and  on  the  Origin,  Performance,  and  Sense  of  the  Rites  of  the  Vedic  Religion. 
Edited,  Translated,  and  Explained  by  MARTIN  HAUG,  Ph.D.,  Superintendent  of" 
Sanskrit  Studies  in  the  Poona  College,  etc.,  etc.  In  2  Vols.  Crown  8vo. 
Vol.  I.  Contents,  Sanskrit  Text,  with  Preface,  Introductory  Essay,  and  a  Map 
of  the  Sacrificial  Compound  at  the  Soma  Sacrifice,  pp.  312.  Vol.  II.  Transla- 
tion with  Notes,  pp.  514.  £3  3s. 

Hang. — AN   OLD  ZAND-PAHLAVJ  GLOSSARY.     Edited  in   the   Original 

Characters,  with  a  Transliteration  in  Roman  Letters,  an  English  Translation, 
and  an  Alphabetical  Index.  By  DESTUH  HOSHENGJI  JAMASPJI,  High-priest  of 
the  Parsis  in  Malwa,  India.  Revised  with  Notes  and  Introduction  by  MARTIN 
HAUG,  Ph.D.,  late  Superintendent  of  Sanscrit  Studies  in  the  Poona  College, 
Foreign  Member  of  the  Royal  Bavarian  Academy.  Published  by  order  of  the 
Government  of  Bombay.  8vo.  sewed,  pp. Ivi.  and  132.  15s. 

Hang. — THE  RELIGION  OF  THE  Z^ROASTRIANS,  as  contained  in  their  Sacred 

Writings.  With  a  History  of  the  Zend  and  Pehlevi  Literature,  and  a  Grammar 
of  the  Zend  and  Pehlevi  Languages.  By  MAHTIN  HAUG,  Ph.D.,  late  Superin- 
tendent of  Sanscrit  Studies  in  the  Poona  College.  2  vols.  8vo.  [In preparation. 

Heaviside. — AMERICAN  ANTIQUITIES  ;  or,  the  New  World  the  Old,  and 

the  Old  World  the  New.  By  JOHN  T.  C.  HEAVISIDE.  8vo.  pp.  46,  sewed.  Is.  6r.'. 

Hepburn. — A  JAPANESE  AND  ENGLISH  DICTIONARY.  With  an  English 
and  Japanese  Index.  By-  J.  C.  HEPBURN,  A.M.,  M.D.  Imperial  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.  xii.,  560  and  132.  51.  5s. 

Hernisz. — A  GUIDE  TO  CONVERSATION  IN  THE  ENGLISH  AND  CHINESE 

LANGUAGES,  for  the  use  of  Americans  and  Chinese  in  California  and  elsewhere. 

By  STANISLAS  HERNISZ.     Square  8vo.  pp.  274',  sewed.     10s.  6d. 
The  Chinese  characters  contained  in  this  work  are  from  the  collections  of  Chinese  groups, 
engraved  on  steel,  and  cast  into  moveable  types,  by  Mr.  Marcellin  Legrand,  engraver  of  the 
Imperial  Printing  Office  at  Paris.    They  are  used  by  most  of  the  missions  to  China. 

Hincks. — SPECIMEN  CHAPTERS  OF  AN  ASSYRIAN  GRAMMAR.  By  tCe  late 
Rev.  E.  HINCKS,  D.D.,  Hon.  M.  R.  A.  S.  8vo.,  pp.  44,  sewed.  Is. 

History  of  the  Sect  of  Maharajahs ;  or,  YALLABHACHARYAS  IN  WESTERN 
INDIA.  With  a  Steel  Plate.  8vo.  pp.  384,  cloth.  12*. 

Hoffmann. — SHOPPING  DIALOGUES,  in  Japanese,  Dutch,  andr  English, 
By  Professor  J.  HOFFMANN.  Oblong  8vo.  pp.  xiii.  and  V,  sewed.  3s. 

Howse.— A  GRAMMAR  OF  THE  CREIE  LANGUAGE.  With  which  is  com- 
bined an  analysis  of  the  Chippeway  Dlalee*.  By  JOSEPH  HOWSE,  Esq., 
F.R.G.S.  8vo.  pp.  xx.  and  324,  cloth.  7s.  6d. 

Hnnter. — A  COMPARATIVE  DICTIONARY  OF  THE  LANGUAGES  OF* INDIA  AND 

HIGH  Asi «.,  with  a  Dissertation,  based  on  T^e  Hodgson  Lists,  Official  Records, 
and  Manuscripts.  By  vV.  W.  HUNTER,  BV>..[  M.R.A.S.,  Honorary  Fellow 
Ethnological  Society,  of  Her  Majesty's  Bengal  Civil  Service.  Folio,  pp.  vi.  and 
324,  cloth.  £-2  2.«. 


8  and  60,  Paternoster  How,  London.  15 

Ikhwajra-s  Safa. — IHK.WANU-S  SAFA  ;  or,  BEOTHEES  OF  PURITY.  De- 
scribing the  Contention  between  Men  and  Beasts  as  to  the  Superiority  of  the 
Human  Race.  Translated  from  the  Hindustani  by  Professor  J.  DOWSON,  Staff 
College,  Sandhurst.  Crown  Svo.  pp.  viii.  and  156,  cloth.  7s. 

Imnan.—  ANCIENT    FAITHS    EMBODIED    IN    ANCIENT.  TIMES;   or,    an 

attempt  to  trace  the  Religious  Belief,  Sacred  Rites,  and  Holy  Emblems 
of  certain  Nations,  by  an  interpretation  of  the  names  given  to  children  by  Priestly 
authority,  or  assumed  by  prophets,  kings  and  hierarchs,  By  THOMAS  INMAN, 
M.D.,  Liverpool.  2  vols.  Svo.  pp.  1.  and  1028,  cloth,  illustrated  with  numerous 
plates  and  woodcuts.  £3.  ^ 

Jaeschke. — A  SHORT  PRACTICAL  GRAMMAR  OF  THE  TIBETAN  LANGUAGE, 
with  special  Reference  to  the  Spoken  Dialects.  By  H.  A.  JAESCHK.E,  Moravian 
Missionary,  8vo.  sewed,  pp(  ii.  and  56.  2s.  6d. 

Jaeschke. — ROMANIZED  TIBETAN  AND  ENGLISH  DICTIONARY,  each  word 

being  re-produced  in  the  Tibetan  as  well  as  in  the  Roman  character.  By  H.  A. 
JAESCHKE,  Moravian  Missionary.  Svo.  pp.  ii.  and  158,  sewed.  5s, 

Justi. — HANDBTJCH  DEE  ZENDSPRACHE,  VON  FERDINAND  JTJSTI.  Altbac- 
trisches  Woerterbuch.  Grammatik  Chrestomathie.  Four  parts,  4to.  sewed, 
pp.  xxii.  and  424.  Leipzig,  1864.  24s. 

Kafir  Essays,  and  other  Pieces ;  with  an  English  Translation.  Edited 
by  the  Right  Rev.  the  BISHOP  OF  GRAHAMSTOWN.  32mo.  pp.  84,  sewed.  Is  Gd. 

Kalidasa. — RAGHUVANSA.  By  KALIDASA.  No.  1.  (Cantos  1-3.) 
With  Notes  and  Grammatical  Explanations,  by  Rev.  K.  M.  BANERJEA, 
Second  Professor  of  Bishop's  Collepj,  Calcutta ;  Member  of  the  Board  of  Exam- 
iners, Fort -William  ;  Honorary  Member  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society,  London. 
Svo.  sewed,  pp.  70.  4s.  6d.  L 

Kern. —  THE    BRHAT-SANHITA  ;     or,    Complete    System    of   Natural 

Astrology  of  Varaha-Mihira.  translated  from  Sanskrit  into  English  by  Dr.  H. 
KEEN,  Professor  of  Sanskrit  at  the  University  of  Leydenl  Svo.  pp.  50,  stitched, 
Parti.  2s.  ^  [  Will  be  completed  in  Nine  Parts. 

Khirad-Afroz  (The  Illuminator  of  the  Understanding).     By  Haulavi 

Haffzu'd-din.     A  new  edition  of  the  Hindustani  Text,  carefully  revised,  with 
Notes,  Critical  and  Explanatory.     By  EDWARD  B.  EASTWICK,  F.R.S.,  F.  S.A., 
M.  R. A.  S.,  Professor  of  Hindustani  at  the  late  East  India  Company's  College 
*      at  Haileybury.     Svo.  cloth,  pp.  xiv.  and  321.     18s. 

Kidd. — CATALOGUE  OF  THE  CHINESE  LIBRARY  OF  THE  ROYAL  ASIATIC 

SOCIETY.     By  the  Rev.  S.  KIDD.     Svo.  pp.  58, '•sewed.     Is. 
Kistner. — BUDDHA  AND  HIS  DOCTRINES.     A  Biographical  Essay.     By 

OTTO   KISTNER.     Imperial  Svo.,  pp.  iv.  and  32,  sewed.     2s.  Gd. 

Koran  (The).     Arabic  text,  lithographed  in  Oudh,  A.H.  1284,  (1867). 

16mo.  pp.  942,  bound  in  red  goatskin,  Oriental  style,  silver  tooling.     Price 

7s.  6rf. 

The  printing,  as  well  as  the  outer  appearance  of  the  book,  is  extremely  tasteful,  and  the 
characters,  although  small,  read  very  easily.  As  a  cheap  edition  for  reference  this  is  preferable 
to  any  9ther,  and  its  price  puts  it  within  the  reach  of  every  Oriental  ^scholar.  It  is  now  first 
imported  from  India. 

Laghu  Kaumudi.  A  Sanskrit  Grammar.  ByVaradaraja.  "With  an  English 

Version,  Commentary,  and  References.  By  JAMES  R.  BALLANTYNE,  LL.D.,  Prin- 
cipal of  the  Snskrit  College,  Benares.  Svo.  pp. xxxvi.  and 424,  cloth.  £1  llt.Bd. 

Legge. — THE  CHINESE  CLASSICS.      "With  a  Translation,  Critical  and 

Exegetical,  Notei,  Prolegomena,  and  Copious  Indexes.  By  JAMSS  LEGGE, 
D.D.,  of  the  London  Missionary  Society.  In  seven  vols.  Vol.  I.  containing 
Confucian  Analects,  the  Gr»5ut  Learning  and  the  Doctrine  of  the  Mean.  8vo. 
pp.  526,  cloth.  £2  2*. — Vol.  II.,  containing  the  Works  of  Mencius.  Svo. 
pp.  634*;  cloth.  £2  1*. — Vol.  III.  Part  I.  containing  the  First  Part  of  the 
Shoo-King,  or  the  Books  of  'R  Aug,  the  Books  of  Yu,  the  Bopks  of  Hea,  the 
Books  of  Shang,  and  the*  Prolegomena.  Royal  svo.  pp.  viii.  and  280,  cloth. 
£2  2s.— Vol.  III.  Part  II.  containing  the  Fifth  Part  of  the  Shoo-King,  or  the 
Books  of  Chow,  and  the  Indexes.  Royal  8vo.  pp.  281— 736,  cloth.  £2  2s. 


16  Linguistic  Publications  of  Trubner  (f«Co. 

Legge. — THE  LIFE  AND  TEACHINGS  OF  CONFUCIUS,  with  Explanatory 
Notes.  By  JAMES  LEGGE,  D.  D.  Reproduced  for  General  Readers  from  the 
Author's  work,  "  The  Chinese  Classics,"  with  the  original  Text.  Second 
edition.  Crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  vi.  and  338.  10s.  6d. 

Leitner. — THE  EACES  AND  LANGUAGES  OF  DARDISTAN.  By  G.  "W. 
LEITNER,  M.A.,  Ph.D.,  Honorary  Fellow  of  King's  College  London,  etc.; 
late  on  Special  Duty  in  Kashmir.  4  vols.  4to.  [In  the  press. 

Leland. —  HANS  BREITMANN'S  PARTY.  With  other  Ballads.  By 
CHARLES  G.  LELAND.  Eighth  Edition.  Square,  pp.  xvi.  and  74,  sewed.  Is. 

Leland. — HANS  BREITMANN'S  CHRISTMAS.  With  other  Ballads.  By 
CHARLES  G.  LELAND.  Second  edition.  Squ  .re,  pp.  80,  sewed.  Is. 

Leland. — HANS  BREITMANN  AS  A  POLITICIAN.  By  CHARLES  G.  LELAND. 
Second  edition.  Square,  pp.  72,  sewed.  1*. 

Lesley. — MAN'S  ORIGIN  AND  DESTINY,  Sketched  from  the  Platform  of 
the  Sciences,  in  a  Course  of  Lectures  delivered  before  the  Lowell  Institute,  in 
Boston,  in  tbe  Winter  of  1865-6.  By  J.  P.  LESLEY,  Member  of  the  National 
Academy  of  the  United  States,  Secretary  of  the  American  Philosophical  Society. 
Numerous  Woodcuts.  Crown  8vo.  pp.  392,  cloth.  10s.  6d. 

Lobscheid. — ENGLISH  AND  CHI^SE  DICTIONARY,  with  the  Punti  and 
Mandarin  Pronunciation.  By  the  Re6.  W.  LOBSCHEID,  Knight  of  Francis 
Joseph,  C.M.I.K.G.S.A.,  N.Z.B.S.V.,  etc.  Folio,  pp.  viii.  and  2016.  In  Four 
Parts.  ^8  8s.  »  * 

Lobscheid. — CHINESE  AND  ENGLISH  DICTIONARY,  Arranged  according  to 
the  Radicals.  By  the  Rev.  W.  LOBSCHEID,  Knight  of  Francis  Joseph, 
C.M.I.R.G.S.A.,  N.Z.B.S.V.,  &&  1  vol.  imp.  8vo.  double  columns,  pp.  800. 

[In  the  press. 

Ludewig  (Hermann  E.) — The  LITERATURE  of  AMERICAN  ABORIGINAL 
LANGUAGES.  With  Additions  and  Corrections  by  Professor  WM.  W.  TURNER. 
Edited  by  NICOLAS  TRUBNER.  8vo.  fly  and  general  Title,  2  leaves;  Dr.  Lude- 
wig's  Preface,  pp.  v. — viii. ;  Editor's  Preface,  pp.  iv. — xii.  ;  Biographic^ 
Memoir  of  Dr.  Ludewig,  pp.  xiii. — xiv. ;  and  Introductory  Biographical  Notices, 
pp.  xiv. — xxiv.,  followed  Vy  List  of  Contents.  Then  follow  Dr.  Ludewig's 
Bibliotheca  Glottica,  alphabetically  arranged,  with  Additions  by  the  Editor,  pp. 
1 — 209  ;  Professor  Turner's  Additions,  with  those  of  the  Editor  to  the  same, 
also  alphabetically  arranged,  pp.  210 — 246;  Index,  pp.  247 — 256;  and  List  of 
Errata,  pp.  257,  258.  Handsomely  bound  in  cloth.  10s.  6d. 

Manava-Kalpa-Sutra ;  being  a  portion  of  this  ancient  Work  on  Vaidik 
Rites,  together  with  the  Commentary  of  KUMARILA-SWAMIN.  A  Facsimile  of 
the  MS.  No.  17,  in  the  Library  of  Her  Majesty's  Home  Government  forolndia. 
With  a  Preface  bj  THEODOR  GOLDSTUCKER.  Oblong  folio,  pp.  268  of  letter- 
press and  121  leaves  of  facsimiles.  Cloth.  £4  4s. 

Manipulus  Vocabulorum ;    A  Ehyming  Dictionary   of  the  English 

Language.     By  Peter  Levins  (1570)      Edited,  with   an  Alphabetical  Index  by 
HENRY  B.  WHEATLEY.     8vo.  pp.  xvi.  and  370,  cloth.     14s. 
Manning — AN  INQUIRY  INTO   THE   CHARACTER  AND  ORIGIN  OF   THE 
POSSESSIVE   AUGMENT  in   English    and  jn   Cognate   Dialects.      By   JAMES 
MANNING,  Q.A  S.,  Recorder  of  Oxford.     8vo.  pp.  iv.  and  90.     2s. 

Markliam. — QUICHUA  GRAMMAR  and  DICTIONARY.  Contributions  to- 
wards a  Grammar  and  Dictionary  of  Quichii  •„  the  Language  of  the  Yncas  of 
Peru;  collected  by  CLEMENTS  R.  MARKHAM,'?.S.A.,  Corr.  Mem.  of  the  Uni- 
versity of  Chile.  Author  of  "  Cuzco  and  Lima,"  and  "Travels  in  Peru  and 
India."  In  one  vol.  crown  8vo.,  pp.  223,  cloth.  10s.  6d. 


&  and  60,  Paternoster  Row,  London.  17 

MarscLn. — NUMISMATA  OBXEXTALIA  ILLTJSTRATA.  The  Plates  of  the 
Oriental  Coins,  Ancient  and  Modern,  of  the  Collection  of  the  late  William 
Marsden,  F.  R.S.,  etc.,  etc.,  engraved  from  drawings  made  under  his  direction. 
4to.  pp.  iv.  (explanatory  advertisement),  cloth,  gilt  top.  £l  11*.  6d. 

Mason. — BURMAH:  its  People  and  ISTatural  Productions;  or  Notes  on 
the  Nations,  Fauna,  Flora,  and  Minerals  of  Tenasserim,  Pegu,  and  Burmah ; 
with  Systematic  Catalogues  of  the  known  Mammals,  Birds,  Fish,  Reptiles, 
'  Mollusks,  Crustaceans,  Annalids,  Radiates,  Plants,  and  Minerals,  with  Vernacular 
names.  By  Rev.  F.  MASON,  D.D.,  M.R.A.S.,  Corresponding  Member  of  the 
American  Oriental  Societs,  of  the  Boston  Society  of  Natural  History,  and  of 
the  Lyceum  of  Natural  1  .istory,  New  York.  8vo.  pp.  xviii.  nnd  914,  cloth. 
Rangoon,  1860.  30*. 

Mason. — A  PALI  GRAMMAR^  on  the  Basis  of  Kachchayano,  "With 
Chrestomathy  and  Vocabulary.  By  FRANCIS  MASON,  D.D.,  M.R.A.S.  and 
American  Oriental  Society.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  iv.,  viii.,  and  214,  31*.  6d. 

Mathuraprasada  Misra. — A  TRILINGUAL  DICTIONARY,  being  a  compre- 
hensive Lexicon  in  English,  Urdu,  and  Hindi,  exhibiting  the  Syllabication, 
Pronunciation,  and  Etymology  of  English  Words,  with  thei-  Explanation  in 
English,  and  In  Urdu  a'nd  Hindi  in  the  Roman  Character.  By  MATHURA- 
PRASADA MISRA,  Second  Master,  Queen's  College,  Benares.  8vo.  pp.  xiv.  and 
1330,  cloth.  Benares,  1865.  £2  2s. 

Medhurst. — CHINESE  DIALOGUES,  QUESTIONS,  and  FAMILIAR  SENTENCES, 
literally  translated  into  English,  with  a  view  to  promote  commercial  intercourse 
and  assist  beginners  in  tin  Language.  B-  the  late  W.  H.  MEDHURST, D.D. 
A  new  and  enlarged  Edition.  8vo.  pp.  226.  IS*. 

Megha-Duta  (The).  ( Cloud  -Messenger.)  By  Kalidasa.  Translated 
from  the  Sanskrit  into  English  verse,  with  Notes  and  Illustrations.  By  the 
late  H.  H.  WILSON,  M.  A.,  F.R.S.,  Boden  Professor  of  Sanskrit  in  the  Uni- 
versity of  Oxford,  etc.,  etc.  The  Vocabulary  by  FRANCIS  JOHNSON,  sometime 
Professor  of  Oriental  Languages  at  the  College  of  the  Honourable  the  East  India 
Company,  Haileybury.  New  Edition.  4to.  cloth,  pp.  xi.  and  180.  10*.  6d. 

Uemoirs  read  before  the  ANTHROPOLOGICAL  SOCIETY  OJF  LONDON,  1863- 

1864.     8vo.,  pp.  542,  cloth.     21*. 

Memoirs  read  before  the  ANTHROPOLOGICAL  SOCIETY  OF  LONDON,  1865-6. 
Vol.  II.  8vo.,  pp.  x.  464,  cloth.  21s. 

Merz. — GRAMMATICA  SYRIACA,  quam  p.ost  opus  Hoffmanni  refecit 
ADALBERTUS  MERX,  Phil.  Dr.  Theol.  Lie.  in  Univ.  Litt.  Jenensi  Priv.  Docens. 
Particula  1.  Royal  8 vo.  sewed,  pp.  136.  7*. 

Moffat. — THE  STANDARD  ALPHABET  PROBLEM  ;  or  the  Preliminary 
Subject  of  a  General  Phonic  System,  considered  on  the  basis  of  some  important 
facts  in  the  Sechwana  Language  of  South  Africa,  and  in  reference  to  the  views 
of  Professors  Lepsius,  Max  Miiller,  and  others.  A  contribution  to  Phonetic 
Phfology.  By  ROBERT^MOFFAT,  junr.,  Surveyor,  Fellow  of  the  Royal  Geogra- 
phical Society.  8vo.  pp.  xxviii.  and  174,  cloth,  f*.  6d. 

Molesworth. — A  DICTIONARY,  MARATHI  and  ENGLISH.  Compiled  by 
J.  T.  MoLESwoRTHvassisted  by  GEORGE  and  THOMAS  CANDY.  Second  Edition, 
revised  and  enlarged.  By  J.  T.  MOLESTVORTH.  Royal  4to.  pp.  xxx.  and  922, 
boards.  Bombay,  1857.  £3  3*. 

Morley. — A  DESCRIPTIVE  CATALOGUE  of  the  HISTORICAL  MANUSCRIPTS 
in  the  ARABIC  and  PERSIAN  UANGUAGJ:S  preserved  in  the  Library  of  the  Royal 
Asiatic  Society  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  By  WILLIAM  H.  MORLKY, 
M.R.A.S.  8vo.  pp.  viii.  and  160,  sewed.  london,  1854.  2«.  6d. 


18  Linguistic  Publications  of  Triibner  $•  Co. 

Morrison. — A  DICTIONARY  OF  LANGUAGE.    By  the  Rev. 

R.  MORRISON,  D.U.  Two  vols.  .Vol.  I.  pp.  x.  and  762;  Vol.  II.  pp.828, 
cloth.  Shanghae,  1865.  £6  6a. 

Muhammed. — THE  LIFE  OF  MOHAMMED.  Based  on  Muhammed  Ibn 
Ishak  By  Abd  El  Malik  Ibn  Hisham.  Edited  by  Dr.  FERDINAND  WUSTEN- 
FIKLD.  One  volume  containing  the  Arabic  Text.  8vo.  pp.  1026,  sewed. 
Price  21».  Another  volume,  containing  Introduction,  Notes,  and  Index  ia 
German.  8vo.  pp.  l.xxii.  and  266,  sewed.  7s.  6d.  Each  part  sold  separately. 
The  test  based  on  the  Manascripts  of  the  Berlin,  Leipsic,  Gotha  and  Leyden  Libraries,  has 

been  carefully  revised  by  the  learned  editor,  and  prLiteii  with  the  utmost  exactness. 

/Hair. — ORIGINAL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS,  on  the  Jrigin  and  History  of  thb 

People  of  India,  their  Religion  and  Institutions.  Collected,  Translated  and 
Illustrated  by  JOHN  MUIR,  Esq.,  LL.D.,  fh.D.  Vol.  I.  :  Mythical  and 
Legendary  Accounts  of  the  Origin  of  Caste,  with  an  Enquiry  into  its  existence 
in  the  Vedic  Age.  Second  edition,  re-written  and  greatly  enlarged.  8vo.,  pp. 
xx.  and  532,  cloth.  21s. 

Jttuir. — ORIGINAL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS,  on  the  Origin  an^  History  of  the 
People  of  India,  their  Religion  and  Institutions.  Collected,  Translated,  and 
Illustrated,  by  JOHN  Mum,  Esq.,  LL.D.,  Ph.D.,  Bonn.  Volume  III., 
The  Vedas :  Opinions  of  their  Authors,  and  of  later  Indian  Writers,  on  their 
Origin,  Inspiration,  and  Authority.  Second  edition,  enlarged.  8vo.  pp.  xxxii. 
and  3 12,  cloth.  16s. 

Mnir. — ORIGINAL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS  o-_.  the  Origin  and  Histoiy  of  the 
People  of  India,  their  Religion  and  Institutions.  Collected,  Translated  into 
English, and  Illustrated  by  Jierf  arks.  By  JOHX  Hum,  Esq.,  LL.D.,  Ph.D.,  Bonn. 
Vol.  IV.  Comparison  of  the  Vedic  with  the  later  representation  of  the  principal 
Indian  Deities.  8vo.  pp.  xii.  and  440,  clotH.  15*.  [A  New  Edition  of  Vol.  II> 
is  in  preparation. 

Muir. — ORIGINAL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS,  on  the  Origin  and  History  of  the 

People  of  India,  their  Religions  and  Institutions.  Collected,  Translated  into 
English,  and  Illustrated  by  Remarks.  By JOHX  MUIR,  Esq.,  LL  D.,  Ph.D., Bonn. 
Vol.  V. :  Contributions  to  a  Knowledge  of  Vedic  Mytho!  [Jn  UK.  ^rets. 

Miiller  INS  OF  THE  BRAHMINS,  as  preserved  to  us  ia 

the  oldest  collection  of  religious  poetry,  the  Rig- Veda -Sanhita,  translated  and 
explained.  By  F.  MAX  MULLER,  M.A.,  Fellow  of  All  Souls'  College  ;  Professor 
of  Comparative  Philology  at  Oxford;  Foreign  Member  of  the  Institute  of 
France,  etc.,  etc.  In  8  vols.  Volume  I.  '  8vo.  pp.  clii.  and  264.  12s.  6d, 

Newman. — A  HANDBOOK  OP  MODERN  ARABIC,  consisting  of  a  Practical 

Grammar,  with  numerous  Examples,  Dialogues,  and  Newspaper  Extracts,  in  a 
European  Type-  By  F.  W.  NEWMAN,  Emeritus  Professor  of  University 
College,  London ;  formerly  Fellow  of  Balliol  College,  Oxford.  Post  8vo.  pp. 
xx.  and  192,  cloth.  London,  1866.  6s. 

Newman. — THE  TEXT  OF  THE  IGCTTNE  INSCRIPTIONS,  with  interlinear 
Latin  Translation  and  Notes.  By  FRANCIS  W.  NEWMAN,  late  Professor  of 
Latin  at  University  College,  London.  8vo.  pp.  xvi.  and  54,  sewed.  2«. 

Notley. — A  COMPARATIVE  GRAMMAR  OF  THE  FRENCH,  ITALIAN,"  SPANISH, 
AND  PORTUGUESE  LANGUAGES.  By  EDWIN  A.  NOTLEY;  Crown  oblong  8vo. 
cloth,  pp.  xv.  and  396.  7s.  Gd. 

Oriental  Text  Society. — (Tfo  Publications  of  the  Oriental  Text  Society.} 

1 .  THEOPHANIA;  or,  Divine  Manifestations  of  our  Lord  and  Saviour.  By 

EUSEBUS, Bishop  o'Csesarea.  Syriac.  Ed"/ed  by  Prof.  S.  LE'E.  8vo.  1842. 15s. 

2.  ATHANASIUS'S  FESTAL  LETTERS,  discovered  in  an  ancient  Syriac 

Version.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  CURETON.     8vo.  1848.     15*. 


8  and  60,  Paternoster  Row,  London.  21 

Rig- Veda  Sanhita. — A  COLLECTION  OF  ANCIENT  HINDU  HYMNS.  Con- 
stituting the  First  Ashtaka,  or  Book  of  the  Rig-vedn  ;  the  oldest  authority  for 
the  religious  and  social  institutions  of  the  Hindus.  Translated  from  the  Original 
Sanskrit.  By  the  late  H.  II.  WILSON,  M.A.,  F.R.S.,  etc.  etc.  etc.  Second 
Edition,  with  a  Postscript  by  Dr.  FITZBDWAHD  HALL.  Vol.  I.  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.  Hi.  and  348,  price  21s. 

Eig-veda  Sanhita. — A  Collection  of  Ancient  Hindu  Hymns,  constitut- 
ing the  Fifth  to  Eighth  Ashtakas,  or  books  of  the  Rig- Veda,  the  oldest 
Authority  for  the  Religious  and  Social  Institur.ions  of  the  Hindus.  Translated 
from  the  Original  Sanskrt  by  vae  late  HOUACE  HAYMAN  WILSON,  M.A., 
^.R.S.,  etc.  Edited  by  2.  B.  COWELL,  M.A.,  Principtl  of  the  Calcutta 
Sanskrit  College.  Vol.  l\  ,,  8vo.,  pp.  214,  cloth.  14*. 
A  few  copies  of  Vols.  II.  anc  III.  still  left.  [  V.  and  VI.  in  the  press. 

Sama-Vidhana-Brahmana  (The).  With  the  Commentary  of  3ayana. 
Edited,  with  Notes,  Translation,  and  Index,  by  A.  C.  BURNELL,  M.R.A.S., 
Madras  Civil  Service.  In  1  vol.  4to.  [In preparation. 

Schele  de  Vere. — STUDIES  IN  ENGLISH  ;  or,  Glimpses  of  the  Inner 
Life  of  our  Language.  By  M.  SCHELE  DE  VERB,  LL.D.,  Professor  of  Modem 
Languages  in  the  University  of  Virginia.  8tro.  cloth,  pp.  vi.  and  365.  10$.  6d. 

Schlagintweit. — BUDDHISM  IN  TIBET.  Illustrated  by  Literary  Docu- 
ments and  Objects  of  Religious  Worship.  With  an  Account  of  the  Buddhist 
Systems  preceding  it  in  India.  By  Es»>-  SCHLAGINTWEIT,  LL.D.  With  a 
Folio  Atlas  of  20  Plates,  and  20  Cables  of  Native  Prints  in  the  Text.  Royal 
8vo.,  pp.  xxiv.  and  404.  £2  2s. 

Schlagintweit. — GLOSSARY  OF  GEOGRAPH  JAL>  TERMS  FKOM  INDIA.  AND 
TIBET,  with  Native  Transcription  and  Transliteration.  By  HERMANN  DE 
SCHLAGINTWEIT.  Forming,  with  a  "  Route  Book  of  the  Western  Himalaya, 
Tibet,  rnd  Turkistan,"  the  Third  Volume  of  H.,  A.,andR.  DE  SCHLAGINTWKIT'S 
"Results  of  a  Scientific  Mission  to  India  and  High  Asia."  With  an  Atlas  in 
imperial  folio,  of  Maps,  Panoramas,  and  Views.  Royal  4to.,-pp.  xxiv.  and 
293.  £4. 

Shapurji  Edalji. — A  GRAMMAR  OF  THE  GUJARATI  LANGUAGE.  By 
SHAPURJI  EDALJI.  Cloth,  pp.  127.  10s.  6d. 

Shapurji  Edalji. — A  DICTIONARY,  GUJARATI  AND  ENGLISH.  By  SrtAPTJBjf 
EDALJI.  Second  Edition.  Crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xxiv.  and  874.  21s. 

Sherring  — THE  SACRED  CITY  OF  THE  HINDUS.  An  Account  of 
Benares  in  Ancient  and  Modern  Times.  By  the  Rev.  M.  A.  SHEURING,  M.A., 
LL.D. ;  and  Prefaced  with  an  Introduction  by  FITZBDWAKD  HALI  ,  Esq.,  D.C.L. 
8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xxxvi.  and  388,  with  numerous  full-page  illustrations.  21*. 

Sophocles. — A  GLOSSARY  OF  LATER  AND  BYZANTINE  GREEJ:.  By  E.  A 
SOPHOCLES.  4to.,  pp.  iv.  and  624,  cloth.  £2  2s. 

Sophoiles.  — ROMAIC  OR  MODERN  GREEK  GRAMMAR.  By  E.  A.  SOPHOCLES. 

8vo.  pp.  xxviii.  and  196.     If.  6d. 

Stratmann.— A  DICTIONARY  OF  THE  ENGLISH  LANGUAGE.     Compiled 

from   the  writings  of  the  xmth,  xivth,  and  xvth  centuries.     By   FRANCIS 
HENRY  STRATMANN.     Second  Edition.     8vo.  cloth,  pp.  x.  and  694. 

[ In  preparation. 

Stratmann. — AN  G_j>  ENGLISH  POEM  OF  THE  OWL  AND  THE  NIGHTINGALE. 
Edited  by  FRANCIS  HENRY  STRATMANN.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  60.  3s. 

The  Boke  of  Nurture.  By  JOHN  ECSSELL,  about  1460-1470  Anno 
Domini  The  Boke  of  Kernynge.  By  WYNK.YN  DE  WORDE,  Anno  Domini 
1513.  The  Boke  of  Nurture.  By  HUGH  RHODES,  Anno  Domini  1577.  Edited 
from  the  Originals  in  the  Sritsh  Musenm  Librar  .  by  FREDERICK  J.  FURNI- 
"ALT,,  M.A.,  Trinity  Hall,  Cambridge,  Member  of  Council  of  the  Philological 
and  Early  English  Text  Societies.  4to.  half-morocco,  gilt  top,  pp.  xix.  and  146, 
28,  xxviii.  and  56.  1867.  I/.  Us.  6d. 


Linguistic  Publications  of  Trubner  <f  Co. 
Tht   V  ,;;on  of  William  concerning  Piers  Plowman,  together  with 

fc  Dowel,  Dobet  et  Dobest,  secundum  wit  et  rcsoun.      By  WILLIAM 
LAI/OJ.AND  (about  1362-1380  anno  domini).     Edite<    from  numerous  Manns- 
ts,  with  Prefaces,  Notes,  and  a  Glossary.    By  the  Rev.  WALTER  W.  SKEAT, 
pp.  xliv.  and  158,  cloth,     1867.     Vernon  TC::L  ;  Text  A.     7*.  6d. 

as. — EARLY  S.A  '  ;S-CRITTIONS,  SEALS  AND  COINS,  illustrating 

the  ,'L  Dynasty,  rontaining  Proclamatii>ns  of  Arde- 

is   Successors.'    A^itii    a   Crillcai  Examination    .nd 

lebrated  Inscription  in  the  H'.jliibad  Cave,  demonstrating 

thar  Sppor,  the  <'onqueror  of  Valerian,  &  '-.in.    By  EDWARD 

loth,  pp.  148,  Illustrated.     In.  &d. 

Ihomas.—  A  FKTV  AND  ENLARGED  EDITION  oi.  THE  COINS  or  THE  I'ATHAN 

SULTANS   OF   DEHLI,    A.D.    1193 — 1554.     6hiefly  re-written,  amplified,  and 

enriched  with  new  Specimens  from  the  collections  of  Mr.  E.   C.    Bayley,  the 

late  Gol.  Stacey,  Mr.  C.  Freeling,  and  the  latest  acquisitions  of  Col.  S.  C. 

nrie ;  aided  by  contributions  from  the  independent  researches  of  Gen.  A. 

:,initigb.am,  and  supplemented  by  selections  from  the  Dynastic  Inscription 

extant  on  various  local  Monuments.     One  vol.  8vo.,  with  Eight  Copper-plate 

Engravings  and  numerous  Woodcuts,     By  EPWARD  THOMAS,  late  of  the  East 

India  Company's  Bengal  Civil  Service.  [Nearfy  ready, 

Thomas. — ESSAYS  ox  INDIAN  ANTIQUITIES  :  following  up  the  Discoveries 
»f  James  Prinsep,  with  specimens  of  his  Engravings,  and  selections  from  his 
I'seful  Tables,  and  embodying  iue  mos^  recent  investigations  into  the  History, 
Palaeography,  and  Numismatics  of  Ancient  India.  By  EDWARD  THOMAS,  late 
be  East  India  Company's  Bengal  Civil  Senrice.  In  2  vols.  8vo.,  profusely 
ii'ustrated.  [/« preparation. 

Thomas. — THE  THEORY  AKD  PRACTICE  or  CREOLE  GRAMMAR.  By  J.  J. 
T-.iOMAS.  Pert  of  Spain  (Trinidad),  1S69.  One  vol.  8vo.  boards,  r>p.  viii.  and 
K.5.  I2s. 

Tindall. — A  GRAMMAR  AND  VOCABULARY  OP  THE  NAMAQTTA-HOTTEXTOT 
-GUAGB.      By   HZNHY  TINDALL,   Wcsleyan  Missionary.      8vo.,   pp.    124, 
sewed.     6*. 

Van  der  Tuuk. — OUTLINES  OF  A  GKAATMAR  OF  THE  MALAGASY  LANGUAG^. 
By  H.  N.  VAN  DEE  TUUK.  8vo.,  pp.  28,  sewed.  1*. 

Van  der  Tuuk. — SHORT  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  MALAY  MANTTSCRITTS  BELONGING 
TO  THB  ROYAL  ASIATIC  SOCIETY.  By  H.  N.  VAN  DER  TUUK.  8vo.,  pp.52.  Is.Qd. 

Vishnn-Pnrana  (The)  ;  a  System  of  Hindu  "Mythology  and  Tradition. 

Translated  from  the  original  Sanskrit,  and  Illustrated  by  Notes  derived  chiefly 
from  other  Puranas.  By  the  late  H.  H.  WILSO.V,  M.A.,  F.R.S  ,  Boden  Pro- 
fessor of  Sanskrit  in  the  University  of  Oxford,  etc.,  etc.  Edited  by  FITZEDWAKD 
HALL.  In  6  vols.  8vo.  Vol.  I.  pp.  cxl.  and  200 ;  Vol.  II.  pp.  313 ;  Vol.  III. 
pp.  348  :  Vol  IV.,  pp.  346  cloth.  Price  10s.  6rf.  each. 

[  Vols.  V.  attd  VI.  in  the  press. 

Wade. — Y-ii-YEN  Tzu-Ewr  CHI.  A  progressive  course  designed  to 
assist  the  Student  of  Colloquial  Chinese,  as  spoken  in  tl)e  Capital  and  the 
Metropolitan  Department.  In  eight  parts,  with  Key,  Syllabary,  and  Writing 
Exercises.  By  THOMAS  FRANCIS  WADE,  C.B.,  Secret  ry  to  Her  Britannic 
Majesty's  Legation,  Peking.  3  vols.  -»to.  Progressive  Course,  fp.  xx.  296.  and 
16 ;  Syllabary,  pp.  126  and  36'  ;  Writing  Sxe  cises,  pp.  48;  K-jy,  pp.  174  and 
1 10,  sewed,  t 

Ttfcfa, — "W'tN-CiiiEN  TZU-ERH  CHI.     A  series, of  papers  selected  as 

specimens  ^f  documen..  -~y  Chinese  designed  4o  resist  Students  of  the  language, 
I  s  written  by  the  officials  of  China.     In  sixteen  parts,  with  Key.     Vol.  I.     By 
••IMAS  FfiAvcisWADE,  C.B.,  Secretary  to  Her  Britannic  Majesty's  Legation 
at  Faking.     4to.,  half-cicth,  pp.  xii.  and  455 ;  and  iv  ,  72,  and  62.     £  1 


NOTICE:  Return  or  renew  all  Library  Materials!  The  Minimum  Fee  for 
each  Lost  Book  is  $50.00. 

The  person  charging  this  material  is  responsible  for 
its  return  to  the  library  from  which  it  was  withdrawn 
on  or  before  the  Latest  Date  stamped  below. 

Theft,  mutilation,  and  underlining  of  books  are  reasons  for  discipli- 
nary action  and  may  result  in  dismissal  from  the  University. 
To  renew  call  Telephone  Center,  333-8400 

UNIVERSITY    OF    ILLINOIS    LIBRARY    AT    URBANA-CHAMPAIGN 


L161— O-1096 


UNIVERSITY  OF  ILLINOIS-URBANA 


ORIGINAL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS  ON  THE  ORIGIN  AN 


