LI  B  R.AR.Y 

OF  THL 

UNIVERSITY 
OF    ILLINOIS 


294.1 
M89o 
1868 


Return  this  book  on  or  before  the 
Latest  Date  stamped  below. 

Theft,  mutilation,  and  underlining  of  books 
are  reasons  for  disciplinary  action  and  may 
result  in  dismissal  from  the  University. 
University  of  Illinois  Library 


: 

• 


MHV   'j  t\  n;: 

"in  i       o  ij    |  j  j 


MAR    71977 


' 


L161— 0-1096 


ORIGINAL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS 


ON    THE 


ORIGIN   AND   HJSTOKY 


OF 


THE    PEOPLE    OF    INDIA, 

THEIR  BELI3ION  AND  IN8TITTJTIONS, 
COLLECTED/ TRANSLATED,   AND  ILLUSTRATED, 

I 

BY 

J.    MUIE,    D.C.L.,    LL.D.,    PH.D. 


VOLUME  THIRD. 

THE   VXDAS :    OPINIONS   OF   THEIB,   AUTHOES   AND    OF   LATEB   INDIAN    WEI*  EES 
ON    THEIE   ORIGIN,    INSPIEATION,    AND   ATJTHOEITY. 

. 

SECOND    EDITION, 

-. 

REVISED    AND    ENLARGED. 


••     -^ 

LONDON: 

•*\ 

TRUBNER    &   CO.,    60,   PATERNOSTER    ROW. 

. 

(All  Rights  Reserved.) 


Arthepsavah  rishayo  devaias  chhandobhir  abhyadhavan  \ 

Anukramanika. 

"  Rishis,  seeking  to  obtain  the  various  objects  of  their  desire, 
hastened  to  the  deities  with  metrical  compositions." 

(See  p.  21 1  of  this  volume.) 


HEETFOED: 
PRINTED    BY   STEPHEN  AUSTIN. 


M  %ci<r 
1WA 

V.  3   ' 

«  V 

PREFACE. 


( 

THE  object  which  I  have  had  in  view  in  the  series  of 
of  treatises  which  this  volume  forms  a  part,  has  been  to 
investigate  critically  the  most  important  points  in  the 
civil  and  religious  history  of  the  Hindus.  Having  shown 
in  the  First  Volume  that  the  mythical  and  legendary  ac- 
counts given  in  the  Puranas,  etc.,  regarding  the  origin  of 
the  caste  system  which  has  long  prevailed  in  India,  are 
mutually  contradictory  and  insufficient  to  establish  the 
early  existence  of  the  popular  belief  regarding  the  distinct 
creation  of  four  separate  tribes,  as  an  original*  and  essen- 
tial article  of  the  Brahmanical  creed ;  and  having  en- 
deavoured to  prove,  in  the  Second  Volume,  by  a  variety 
of  arguments,  drawn  chiefly  from  comparative  philology 
and  from  the;  contents  of  the  Eigveda,  that  the  Hindus 
are  descended  from  a  branch  of  the  Indo-European 
stock^  which  dwelt  originally  along  with  the  other  cog- 
nate rac8^  in  Central  Asia,  and  subsequently  migrated 
into  Northern  Hindustan,  w&ere  the  Brahmanical  reli- 
gion and  institutions  were  developed  and  matured; — I 
now  aome,  in  this  Third  Volume,  to  consider  more  par- 
ticularly the  history  of  the  Vedas,  regarded  as  the  sacred 
Scriptures  of  the  Hindus,  and  the  inspired  source  from- 
which  their  religious  and  philosophical  systems  (though, 


vi  PREFACE. 

to  a  great  extent,  founded  also  on  reasoning  and  specu- 
lation) profess  to  be  mainly  derived;  or  with  which,  at 
least,  they  all  claim  to  be  in  harmony. 

When  I  speak,  however,  of  the  history  of  the  Veda,  I 
am  reminded  that  I  am  employing  a  term :  which  will 
suggest  to  the  philosophical  reader  the  ides  of  a  minute 
and  systematic  account  of  the  various  opinions  which 
the  Indians  have  held  in  regard  to  their  sacred  books 
from  the  commencement,  through  all  the  successive 
stages  of  their  theological  development,  down  to  the 
present  time.  To  do  anything  like  this,  however,  would 
be  a  task  demanding  an  extent  of  research  far  exceeding 
any  to  which  I  can  pretend.  At  some  future  time,  in- 
deed, we  may  hope  that  a  history  of  the  theological  and 
speculative  ideas  of  the  Indians,  which  shall  treat  this 
branch  also  of  the  subject,  may  be  written  by  some  com- 
petent scholar.  My  own  design  is  much  more  modest. 
I  only  attempt  to  show  what  are  the  opinions,  on  the 
subject  of  the  Yeda,  which  have  been  entertained  by 
certain  distinct  sets  of  writers  whom  I  may  broadly 
divide  into  three  classes — {!)  the  mythological,  (2)  the 
scholastic,  and  (3)  the  Yedic. 

The  first,  or  /mythological  class,  embraces  the  writers 
of  the  different  Puranas  and  Itihasas,  and  partially  those 
of  the  Brahmanas  and  Uppnishads,  who,  like  the  com- 
pilers of  the  Puranas,  frequently  combine  the  mytho- 
logical with  the  theosophic  element. 

The  second,  or  scholastic  class,  includes  the  authors  of 
the  different  philosophical  schools,  or  Darsanas,  with 
thefc  scholiasts  and  expositors,  and  the  commentators 


PREFACE.  vii 

» 

on  the  Vedas.  The  whole  of  these  writers  belong  to 
the  class  of  systematic  or  philosophical  theologians  ;  but 
as  their  speculative  principles  differ,  it  is  the  object  of 
each  particular  school  to  explain  and  establish  the  origin 
aricUauthoiaty  of  the  Vedas  on  grounds'* conformable  to 
its  own  fundamental  dogmas,  as  well  as  to  expound  the 

doctrines  of  the  sacred  books 'in  such  a  way  as  to  har- 

'  >  } 

monize  with  its  own  special  tenets.  *  •  9 

The  third  class  of  writers,  whose  opinions  in  regard  to 
the  Vedas  I  have  attempted  to  exhibit,  is  composed  (1) 
of  the  rishis  themselves,  the  authors  of  the  Vedic  hymns, 
and  (2)  of  the  authors  of  the  Upanishads,  which,  though 
works  of  a  much  more  recent'  date,  and  for  the  most  part 
of  a  different  character  from  the  hymns,  are  yet  regarded 
by  later  Indian  writers  as  forming,  equally  with  the 
latter,  a  part  of  the  Veda.  As  the  authors  of  the  hymns, 
the  earliest  of  them  at  least,  lived  in  an  age  of  simple 
conceptions  and  of  spontaneous  and  childlike  devotion, 
we  shall  find  that,  though  some  of  them  appear,  in  con- 
formity with  the  spirit*  of  their  times,  to  have  regarded 
their  compositions  as  iA  a  certain  degree  the  result  of 
divine  inspiration,  their  primitive  an,d  elementary  ideas 
on  this  subject  form  a  strong  contrast  to  the  artificial 
and  systematic  definitions  of  theMater  scholastic  writers, 
ji^jid  even  the  authors  of  the  Upanishads,  though  they, 
in  a  more  distinct  manner,  claim  a  superhuman  authority 
for  tjieir  owisr  productions,  are  very  far  from  recognizing 
the  rig^d  classification  which,  at  a  subsequent  period,  di- 
vided the  Vedic  writings  from  all  other  religious  works, 
by  a  broad  line  of  demarcation.  ,  0 


viii  PREFACE. 

c 

It  may  conduce  to  the  convenience  of  the  reader,  if  I 
furnish  here  a  brief  survey  jof  the  opinions  of  the  three 
classes  of  writers  above  described,  in  regard  to  the  Yedas, 

1  *"  C 

as  these  opinions  are"  shown  in  the  passages  which  are 
collected  in  the  present  volume.  (  «  •  c  * 

The  first  chapter  (pp.  1-217)  contains  texts  exhibiting 
the  opinions  on  the  origin;  division,  inspiration,  and  au- 
thority of  the  Yedas;  which  have  been  held  by  Ifidian 
authors  shortly  before,  or  subsequent  to,  the  collection  of 
the  Vedic  hymns,  and  consequently  embraces  the  views 
of  the  first  two  of  the  classes  of  writers  above  specified, 
viz.  (1)  the  mythological  and  (2)  the  scholastic.  In  the 
first  Section  (pp.  3-10),  I  adduce  texts  from  the  Purusha 
Sukta,  g£he  Atharva-veda,  the  Satapatha  Brahmana,  the 
Chhandogya  Upanishad,  the  Taittiriya  Brahmana,  and 
the  Institutes  of  Manu,  which  variously  represent  the 
Vedas  (a)  as  springing  from  the  mystical  sacrifice  of 
Puwisha ;  (5)  as  resting  on  (or  inhering  in)  Skambha  ; 
(c)  as  cut  or  scraped  off  from  him,  as  being  his  hair, 
and  his  mouth ;  (d)  as  springing  from  Indra ;  (e)  as  pro- 
duced from  time ;  (/)  as  produced  fronf  Agni,  Yayu, 
and  Surya;  (g)  as  springing  from  Prajapati,  and  the 
waters  ;  (h)  as  being  the  breathing  of  the  Great  Being ; 
(t)  as  being  dug  by  tMe  gods  out  of  the  mincf-ocean ; 
(/)  as  being  the  hair  of  Prajapati' s  beard,  and  (k)  ,as 
being  the  offspring  of  Yach. 

In  page  287  of'  thec  Appendix  a  further  "verse  of  ^he 
Atharva-veda  is  cited,  in  which  the  Yedas  are  declared 
to  have  sprung  from  the  leavings  of  the  sacrifice  (uch- 
chhisfita). 


PREFACE.  '  ix 

• 

In  the  second  Section  (pp.  10-14)  are  quoted  pas- 
sages from  the  Yishnu,  Bhagavata,  and  Markandeya  Pu- 
ranas,  wtyich  rejre^ent  th«  four  Yedas  as  having  issued 
from  the  mouth  of  Brahma  at  the  creation  ;  several  from 
ttte  Harivamsa,  'which  speak  of  the  Yedas  as  created  by 
Brahma,  or  as  produced  from  the  Gayatri ;  another  from 
the  MahabharataJ  which  describes  them  as  created  by 
Yishrfu,  or  as  having  S'arasvatI  for  their  mother ;  witk 
one  from  Manu,  which  declares  the  Yedas,  along  with 
certain  other  objects,  to  be  the  second  manifestation 
of  the  Sattva-guna, 'or  pure  principle,  while  Brahma  is 
-  one  of  its  first  manifestations. 

The  third  Section  (pp.  14-18)  contains  passages  from 
the  Brahmanas,  the  Yishnu  Purana,  and  the  Mahabha" 
rata,  in  which  the  Yedas  are  celebrated  as  comprehend- 
ing all  beings,  as  being  the  soul  of  metres,  hymns, 
breaths,  and  gods,  as  imperishable,  as  the  source  of  form, 
motion,  and  heat,  of  the  names,  forms,  and  functions'  of 
all  creatures,  as  infinite  in  extent,  as  infinite  in  their 
essence  (brahma\  though  limited  in  their  forms  as  Eich, 
Yajush,  and  Saman  verses,  as  eternal,  and  as  forming 
'the  essence  of  Yishnu.  •.  • 

The  fourth  Section  (pp.  18-36)  contains  passages  from 
the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  and  Mailu,  in  which  the  great 
benefits  resulting  from  the  study  of  the  Yedas,  and  the 
dignity,  power,  authority,  and  efficacy  of  these  works 
^are  ^c^lebrateti*,  together  with  two,  oth'er  texts  from  the 
latter  author  and  the  Yishnu  Purana,  in  which  a  certain 
impurity  is  predicated  of  the  Sama-veda  (compare  the. 
Markandeya  Purana,  as  quoted  in  »p.  12,  where  the  four 


x  PREFACE. 

Yedas  are  described  as  respectively  partaking  differently 
of  the  character  of  the  three  Gunas,  or  Qualities) ;  and 
some  others  from  the  Vayu,  Padma,  M&tsya,  and  Brah- 
ma-vaivartta  Puranas,  and  the  Mahabharata,  and  Kama- 
yana,  which  derogate  greatly  frcm  the  'consideration,  of 
the  Vedas,  by  claiming  for  the  Puranas  rand  Itihasas  an 
equality  with,  if  not  a,,  superiority  toj  the  older  scrip- 
tures. A  passage'  is  next  quoted  from  the  Mundaka 
Upanishad,  in  which  the  Vedas  and  their  appendages  are 
designated  as  the  "  inferior  science,"  in  contrast  to  the 
u  superior  science,"  the  knowledge  of  Soul ;  and  is  fol- 
lowed by  others  from  the  Bhagavad  Gita,  the  Chhan- 
dogya  Upanishad  and  the  Bhagavata  Purana,  in  which 
the  ceremonial  and  polytheistic  portions  of  the  Veda  are 
depreciated  in  comparison  with  the  knowledge  of  the  su- 
preme Spirit.  -5 

The  fifth  Section  (pp.  36-49)  describes  the  division  of 
the"  Vedas  in  the  third  or  Dvapara  age,  by  Vedavyasa 
and  his  four  pupils,  according  to  texts  of  the  Vishnu, 
Vayu,  and  Bhagavata  Puranas ;  <and  then  adduces  a  dif- 
ferent account,  asserting  their  division  in  6he  second  or 
Treta"age,  by  the 'King  Pururavas,  according  to  another 
passage  of  the  same  Bhagavata  Purana,  and  a  text  pf  the 
Mahabharata  (though  rthe  latter  is  silent  regarding  Pu- 
ruravas). * 

Section  vi.    (pp.   49-57)  contains  passages  from  the 

Vishnu  and  Vayu  Puranas  and  the  S'atapafha  Brabmana, 

regarding  the  schism  between  the  adherents  of  tfce  Yajur- 

'veda,  as  represented  by  the  different  schools  of  Vaisam- 

payana  and  Yajnavalkya,  and  quotes  certain  remarks  of 


PREFACE.  xi 

• 

Prof.  Weber  on  the^same  subject,  and  on  the  relation  of 
the  Eig  and  Sama  Ve,das  td  each  other,  together  with 
some  otjuer  texts,  adduced' and  illustrated  by  that  scholar, 
on  the  hostility  of  the  Atharvanas  towards  the  other 
Vedas,  and  of  t"he  Chandogas  towards  the  Eig-veda. 

Section  yji.*  (pp.,  57-70)  contains  extracts  from  the 
works  of  Sayana  'and^Madhava,  Jfche  commentators  on  the 
Eig  and  Taittiriya  Yajur  Vedas,  in  which  they  both  de- 
fine the  characteristics  of  the  Yeda,  and  state  certain 
arguments  in  support  of  its  authority.  Sayana  (pp. 
58-66),  'after  noticing  the  objections  urged  against  his 
views  by  persons  of  a  different  school,  and  defining  the 
Veda  as  a  work  consisting  of  Mantra  and  Brahmana, 
asserts  that  it  is  not  derived  from  any  personal,  or  at 
least  not  from  any  human,  author  (compare  the  further 
extract  from  him  in  p.  105) ;  and  rests  its  authority  on 
its  own  declarations,  on  its  self-proving  power,  on  the 
Smriti  (i.e.  non-vedic  writings  of  eminent  saints),  and  on 
common  notoriety.  He  then  encounters  some  other  ob- 
jections raised  against  the  Yeda  on  the  score  of  its  con- 
taining passages  which  are  unintelligible,  dubious,  ab- 
surd, contradictory,  or  superfluous.  "Madhava  (j?p.  66- 
70)  .-defines  the  Yeda  as  the  work  whi-ch  alone  reveals 
the  supernatural  means  of  attaining  future  felicity ;  ex- 
plains that  males  only,  belonging  to  the  three  superior 
castes,  are  competent  to  study  its^  contents ;  and  asserts 
th^t,  ^inasmuch  as  it  is  eternal,  it  is  a  primary  and  infal- 
lible authority.  This  eternity  of  the  Yeda,  however,  he 
appears  to  interpret  as  not  being  absolute,  but^s  dating 
from  the  first  creation,  when  it  was  produced  from  Brairna, 


xii  PREFACE. 

i 

though,  as  he  is  free  from  defects,  the  Veda,  as  his  work, 
is  self-proved. 

Section  viii.  (pp.  70-108)  contains  the  views  of .Jaimini 
and  Badarayana,  the  (alleged)  authors  of  the  Mimansa 
and  Brahma  (or  Vedanta)  Sutras  on  the  eternity  of  'the 
Yeda.  Jaimini  asserts  that  sound,  or.  wofds,1,  are  eternal, 
that  the  connection  between  words €  and'  the  objects  -they 
represent  also,  is  'not  arbitrary  or  conventional,  but 
eternal,  and  that  consequently  the  Yedas  convey  un- 
erring information  in  regard  to  unseen  objects.  This 
view  he  defends  against  the  Naiyayikas,  answering  their 
other  objections,  and  insisting  that  the  names,  derived 
from  those  of  certain  sages,  by  which  particular  parts  of 
the  Yedas  are  designated,  do  not  prove  those  sages  to 
have  been  their  authors,  but  merely  the  teachers  who 
studied  and  handed  them  down ;  while  none  of  the 
names  occurring  in  the  Yeda  are  those  of  temporal 
beings,  but  all  denote  some  objects  which  have  existed 
eternally.  Two  quotations  in  support  of  the  superna- 
tural origin  of  the  Yeda  are  'next  introduced  from 
the  Nyaya-mala-vistara  (a  condensed  account  of  the 
Mimatlsa  system)  fand  from  the  Vedartha-prakasa  (the 
commentary  on  «the  Taittiriya  Yajur-veda).  The  a^gu- 
ments  in  both  passages  (pp.  86-89)  are  to,  the  same 
effect,  and  contain  nothing  that  has  not  been  already  in 
substance  anticipated  in  preceding  summaries  of  the  Mi- 
mansa doctrine.  In  reference  to  their  argument  that  no 
author  of  the  Yeda  is  remembered,  I  have  noticed  here 
that  the  supposition  which  an  objector  might  urge,  that 
the  vishis,  the  acknowledged  utterers  of  the  hymns, 


PREFACE. 


might  also  have  been  their  authors,  is  guarded  against 
by  the  tenet,  elsewhere  maintained  by  Indian  writers, 
.  that  tbe^  risbis  w^re  merely  seer,s  of  the  pre-existing 
sacred  texts.  Some  of  the  opinions  quoted  from  the 
SUtras  of  Jaimin;  are  further  enforced  in  a  passage  from 
the  summary  of  the  Mimansa  doctrine,  which  I  have 
quoted  from  the  Sasva-darsana*-sangraha.  The  writer 
first  notices  the  Naiyayika  objections  to  the  Mimansata 
tenet  that  the  Veda  had  no  personal  author,  viz.  (1)  that 
any  tradition  to  this,  effect  must  have  been  interrupted  at 
the  past  dissolution  of  the  universe  ;  (2)  that  it  would 
be  impossible  to  prove  that  no  one  had  ever  recollected 
any  such  author  ;  (3)  that  the  sentences  of  the  Veda 
have  the  same  character  as  all  other  sentences  ;  (4)  that 
the  inference,  —  drawn  from  the  present  mode  of  trans- 
mitting the  Vedas  from  teacher  to  pupil,  —  that  the  same 
mode  of  transmission  must  have  gone  on  from  eternity, 
breaks  down  by  being  equally  applicable  to  any  other 
book  ;  (5)  that  the  Veda  is  in  fact  ascribed  to  a  personal 
author  in  a  passage  of  Ihe  book  itself;  (6)  that  sound  is 
,  not  eternal,  and  that  when  we  recognize  letters  as  the 
same  we  have  heard  before,  this  dofcs  not  prove  their 
identity  or  eternity,  but  is  merely  a  recognition  of  them 
as  belonging  to  the  same  species  as  other  letters  we  have 
he&rd  before  ;  (7)  that  though  Paramesvara  (God)  is  na- 
turally incorporeal,  ke  may  have  assumed  a  body  in  order 
to  'jfeveal  the  Veda,  etc.  The  writer  then  states  the  Mi- 
mansaka  answers  to  these  arguments  thus  :  What  does 
this  alleged  '  production  by  a  personal  author^  (pauru- 
sheyatva)  mean  ?  The  Veda,  if  supposed  to  be  so  *pro- 


xiv  PREFACE. 

duced,  cannot  derive  its  authority  (a)  from  inference  (or 
reasoning),  as  fallible  books  employ  the  same  process. 
Nor  will  it  suffice  to  s,ay  ( b)  that'  it  derives  its  authority 
from  its  truth : ,  for  the  Veda  is  denned  to  be  a  book 
which  proves  that  which  can  be  proved,  in  no  "other  way. 
And  even  if  Paramesvara  (God)  we»3  to  assiime  a  body, 
he  would  not,  in  that  state  of  limitation,  have  any  a'ecess 
to  supernatural  knowledge.  Further,  the  fact  that  dif- 
ferent sakhas  or  recensions  of  the  Yedas  are  called  after 
the  names  of  particular  sages,  proves  nb  more  than  that 
these  recensions  were  studied  by  those  sages,  and  affords 
no  ground  for  questioning  the  eternity  of  the  Vedas, — 
an  eternity  which  is  proved  by  the  fact  of  our  recogniz- 
ing letters  when  we  meet  with  them.  These  letters  are 
the  very  identical  letters  we  had  heard  before,  for  there 
is  no  evidence  to  show  either  that  letters  of  the  same 
sort  (Gr's,  for  instance,)  are  numerically  different  from 
each  other,  or  that  they  are  generic  terms,  denoting  a 
species.  The  apparent  differences  which  are  observable 
in  the  same  letter,  result  merelyffrom  the  particular  cha- 
racteristics of  the  persons  who  utter  it,  and*do  not  affect 
its  identity.  This0  is  followed  by  further  reasoning  in 
support  of  the  same  general  view ;  and  the  writer  >  then 
arrives  at  the  conclusion,  which  he  seems  to  hiinself  to 
have  triumphantly  established,  that  the  Veda  is  unde- 

rived  and  authoritative.  f~ 

< 

The  question  of  the  effect  produced  on  the  Vedas  ^by 
the  dissolutions  of  the  world  is  noticed  in  stfme  ex- 
tracts frm  Patanjali's  Mahabhashya  and  its  commen- 
tatofs,  which  have  been  adduced  by  Prof.  Goldstiicker 


PREFACE.  TV 

• 

in  the  Preface  to  his  Manava-kalpa  Sutra,  and  which 
I  have  partly  reprinted  in  pp.  95  ff.  It  is  admitted 
by  Pat»AJali,»tnat?,  though  the  SQnse  of  the  Vedas  is 
permanent,  the  order  of  their  letters  Jias  not  always 
remained  tne  same,,  and!"  that  this  difference  is  exhibited 
in  the  different*  recensions  of.  the  Kathakas  and  other 
schools.  Patanjali  himself  does  n.ot  say  what  is  the  cause 
of  this  alteration  in  the  order  of  the  letters  ;  but  his  com- 
mentator, Kaiyyata,  states  that  the  order  was  disturbed 
during  the  great 'mundane  dissolutions,  etc.,  and  had  to 
be  restored  (though  with  variations)  by  the  eminent 
science  of  the  rishis.  Kulluka,  the  commentator  on 
Manu  (see  p.  6),  maintains  that  the  Veda  was  pre- 
served in  the  memory  of  Brahma  during  the  period  of 
dissolution;  and  promulgated  again  at  the  beginning  of 
the  Kalpa,  but  whether  in  an  altered  form,  or  not,  he 
does  not  tell  us.  The  latter  point  is  also  left  unsolved 
in  S'ankara's  commentary  on  Brahma  Sutra  i.  3,  30, 
which  I  quote  in  the  Appendix,  pp.  300  ff.  Pages 
93  ff.  contain  some  remarks  (by  way  of  parenthesis)  on 
the  question  whether  or  not  the  Purva  Mimamsa  admits 
the  existence  of  a  Deity. 

In>the  extract  given  in  pp.  98^-105  from  his  commen- 
tary on 'the  Brahma  Sutras,1  S'ankara,  who  follows  the 
au'thor  of  those  Sutras,  and*  Jaimini,  in  basing  the  au- 
thority of  the  Vedao  on  the  eternjty  of  sound,  finds  it 
neftesSary  to  meet  an  objection  that,  as  the  gods  men- 
tioned ia  the  Veda  had  confessedly  an  origin  in  time,  the 

1  My  attention  was  originally  drawn  to  this  passage  by  a  treatise,  then  unpublished, 
by  the  Rev.  Prof.  Banerjea,  formerly  of  Bishop's  College,  Calcutta. 


xvi  PREFACE. 

words  which  designate  those  gods  cannot  be  eternal,  but 
must  have  originated  co-evally  with  the  created  objects 
which  they  denote,  since  eternal  words  ceuld  toot  have 
an  eternal  connection  with  non-eternal  objects.  This 
difficulty  he  tries  to  overcome '  (ignoring  the  ground 
taken  by  Jaimini,  that  the  Veda  contains  no  references 
to  non-eternal  objects)  by  asserting"  that  the  eterna}"«on- 
nection  of  words  is  not  with  individual  objects,  but  with 
the  species  to  which  these  objects  belong,  and  that  Indra 
and  the  other  gods  are  proved  by  thp  Yeda  to  belong  to 
species.  S'ankara  then  goes  on  to  assert,  on  the  autho- 
rity of  Brahma  Sutra,  i.  3,  28,  fortified  by  various  texts 
from  the  Yedas  and  the  Smritis,  that  the  gods  and  the 
world  generally  are  produced  (though  not  in  the  sense  of 
evolution  out  of  a  material  cause)  from  the  word  of  the 
Yedas  (see  pp.  6  and  16)  in  the  form  of  spJiota.  This 
last  term  will  be  explained  below.  This  subject  above 
referred  to,  of  the  eternal  connection  of  the  words  of  the 
Yeda  with  the  objects  they  represent,  is  further  pursued 
in  a  passage  which  I  have  quotec}  in  the  Appendix,  p.  300, 
where  an  answer  is  given  to  the  objection*  that  the  ob- 
jects denoted  by  tlie  words  of  the  Yeda  cannot  be  eternal, 
as  a  total  destruction  of-  everything  takes  place  (not,  in- 
deed, at  the  intermediate,  but)  at  the  great  munclane  dis- 
solutions. The  solution  given  is  that,  by  the  favour'  of 
the  supreme  Lordf  the- inferior  lords  rBrahma,  etc.,  retain 
a  recollection  of  the  previous  mundane  conditions f;  'svnd 
that  in  each  successive  creation  everything  is  produced 
exactly  t&e  same  as  it  had  previously  been.  I  then  pro- 
ceed' in  p.  105  to  adduce  a  passage  from  Say  ana,  the 


PREFACE.  xvii 

» 

commentator  on  thQ  Rig-veda,  who  refers  to  another  of 
the  Brahma  Sutras,  i.  \  3  (quoted  in  p.  106),  declaring 
that  Brahma  was  the  source  of  the, Veda,  which  S'ankara 
interprets  as  containing  a  proof  of  the  omniscience  of 
Brah'ma.  ^ayana,  understands  this  text  as  establishing 
the  superhuman  origin  of  tjie  Veda,  though  not  its 
eternity  in  the  proper  sense,  it*  being  only  meant,  ac- 
cording to  him  (as  well  as  to  Madhava  ;  see  p.  xi.),  that 
the  Veda  is  eternal  in  the  same  sense  as  the  sether  is 
eternal,  i.e.  during  tjie  period  between  each  creation  and 
dissolution  of  the  universe. 

In  opposition  to  the  tenets  of  the  Miinansakas,  who 
hold  the  eternity  (or  the  eternal  self-existence)  of  the 
-  Veda,  and  to  the  dogmas  of  the  Vedanta,  as  just  ex- 
pounded, Gotama,  the  author  of  the  Nyaya  aphorisms, 
denies  (Section  ix.  pp.  108-118)  the  eternity  of  sound; 
and  after  vindicating  the  Veda  from  the  charges  of 
falsehood,  self-contradiction,  and  tautology,  deduces  its 
authority  from  the  authority  of  the  wise,  or  competent, 
person  or  persons  who\were  its  authors,  as  proved 
by  the  efficacy  of  such  of  the  Vedic  prescriptions  as 
relate  to  mundane  matters,  and  can  *be  tested  by  ex- 
perier*ce.  It  does  not  distinctly;  result  'from  Gotama's 
aphorism  Mhat  God  is  the  competent  person  whom  he 
regards  as  the  maker  of  the  *Veda.  If  he  did  not  refer 
to  God,  he  must  havo  regarded  the*  rishis  as  its  authors. 
The^iauthors  of  the  Vaiseshika  Sutras,  and  of  the  Tarka 
Sangraha^  as  well  as  the  writer  of  the  Kusumanjali, 
however,  clearly  refer  the  Veda  to  Isvara  (Go'S)  as  its 
framer  (pp.  118-133).  Udayana,  the  author  of  the  latW 


xviii  PREFACE. 

i 

work  (pp.  128-133),  controverts  theaopinion  that  the  ex- 
istence of  the  Veda 'from  eternity  can  be  proved  by  a 
continuous  tradition,  rtas  such  V  tradition  .must,-  Jie  says, 
have  been  interrupted  at  the  dissolution  of  the  world, 
which  preceded  the  existing  creation.  He,  therefore 
(as  explained  by  his  commentator-),  infers  an  eternal 
(and  omniscient  author  -x)f  the  Veda ;  asserting  that  the 
Veda  is  paurusheya,  or  derived  from  a  personal  author ; 
that  many  of  its  own  texts  establish  this ;  and  that  the 
appellations  given  to  its  particular  Jakhas  or  recensions, 
are  derived  from  the  names  of  those  sages  whose  persons 
were  assumed  by  Isvara,  when  he  uttered  them  at  the 
creation.  In  pp.  125  if.  I  have  quoted  one  of  the  Vai- 
seshika  Sutras,  with  some  passages  from  the  commen- 
tator, to  show  the  conceptions  the  writers  entertained 
of  the  nature  of  the  supernatural  knowledge,  or  intui- 
tion, of  the  rishis. 

Kapila,  the  author  of  the  Sankhya  Aphorisms  (pp.  1 33 
.-138),  agrees  with  theNyaya  and  Vaiseshika  aphorists  in 
denying  the  eternity  of  the  Vecfa,  but,  in  Conformity  with 
his  own  principles,  differs  from  Gotama  and  Kanada  in 
denying  its  derivation  from  a  personal  (i.e.  here,  a  divine) 
author,  because  there  was  no  person  (i.e.  as  his  commen- 
tator explains,  no  God)  to  make  it.  Vishnu, '  the  chief 
of  the  liberated  beings,  tho'ugh  omniscient,  could  not,  he 
argues,  have  ma$e  tho  Veda,  owing' to  his  impassiveness, 
and  no  other  person  6ould  have  done  so  from  want'  oioom- 
niscience.  And  even  if  the  Veda  have  been  u'itered  by 
the  prirfteval  Purusha,  it  cannot  be  called  his  work,  as  it 
was  breathed  forth  by  him  unconsciously.  Kapila  agrees 


PREFACE.  xix 

9 

with  Jaimini  in  ascribing  a  self- demonstrating  power  to 
the  Veda,  and  differs  'from  the  Vaiseshikas  in  not  de- 
riving kg  authority  from  correct  knowledge  possessed  by 
a ,  conscious  utjfcerer.  He  proceeds  to  controvert  the 
existence  of  §  such  'a  thing  as  sphota  (a  modification  of 
sound  which  is  a,ssamed  by  -the  Mimansakas,  and  de- 
scribed as  single,  indivisible,  flistinpt  from  individual 
letters,  existing  in  the  form  of  words,  and  constituting 
a  whole),  and  to  deny  the  eternity  of  sound. 

In  the  tenth  Section  (pp.  138-179)  I  shew  (a)  by  quo- 
tations from  the  aphorisms  of  the  Vedanta  and  their  com- 
mentator (pp.  140-145),  that  the  author  and  expounder 
of  the  Uttara  Mimamsa  (the  Vedanta)  frequently  differ 
from  Jaimini  the  author  of  the  Purva  Mimamsa  in  the 
interpretation  of  the  same  texts  of  the  Upanishads.  A 
similar  diversity  is  next  (#)  proved  at  greater  length 
(pp.  145-173),  by  quotations  from  the  apKorisms  and 
commentaries  of  the  Vedanta  and  the  Sankhya,  to  cha- 
racterize the  expositions  proposed  by  the  adherents  of 
those  two  systems  respectively.  One  quotation  is  given 
.in  pp.  175  ff.  to  shew,  (c)  that  the  same  is  true  in  regard 
to  the  followers  of  the  Vaiseshika  philosophy,  who  dis- 
tinctly reject  the  Vedantic  explanations ;  and  last  of  all 
(d)  I  haV>e  made  some  extracts  (pp.  177  ff.)  from  the 
Bhakti  Sutras  of  Sandilya  to*  exhibit  the  wide  divergence 
of  that  writer^  from 'the  orthodox*views  of  the  Vedanta 
regarding  the  sense  of  the  Veda's.  In  pp.  173-175 
I  quote  "some  remarks  of  Dr.  E.  Eoer,  and  Prof.  Max 
Miiller,  regarding  'the  doctrines  of  ^  tne  Upanisliads,  and 
their  relations  to  the  different  philosophical  schools. 


xx  PREFACE. 

i 

In  the  facts  brought  forward  in  this  section  we  find 
another  illustration  (1)  of  the  tendency  common  to  all 
dogmatic  theologians  to  interpret' in  strict 'conformity  with 
their  own  opinions  the  unsystematic  and  not  always  con- 
sistent texts  of  an  earlier  age  which  have  been  handed 
down  by  tradition  as  sacrefl  and  infallible,  and  to  repre- 
sent them  as  containing,  ror  as  necessarily  implying,  fixed 
and  consistent  systems  of  doctrine  ;  as  well  as  (2)  of  the 
diversity  of  view  which  so  generally  prevails  in  regard 
to  the  sense  of  such  texts  among  ^writers  of  different 
schools,  who  adduce  them  with  equal  positiveness  of 
assertion  as  establishing  tenets  and  principles  which  are 
mutually  contradictory  or  inconsistent. 

In  the  eleventh  Section  (pp.  179-207)  some  passages  are 
adduced  from  the  Nyaya-mala-vistara,  and  from  Kulluka's 
commentary  on  Manu,  to  show  that  a  distinct  line  of  de- 
marcation is  drawn  by  the  scholastic  writers  between  the 
Yedas  on  the  one  hand,  and  all  other  classes  of  Indian 
scriptures,  embraced  under  the  designation  of  Smriti  (in- 
cluding the  Darsanas,  the  Institutes  of  Manu,  the  Pu- 
ranas,  and  Itihasas,  etc.),  on  the  other,  tlie  first  being . 
regarded  as  independent  and  infallible  guides,  while  the 
others  are  (in  theory)  held  to  be  authoritative  only  in  so 
far  as  they  are  founded  on,  and  coincide  with,<  the  Yeda. 
The  practical  effect  of  this  distinction  is,  however,  much 
lessened  by  the  fact  tkat  the  ancient  sages,  the  authors 
of  the  Smritis,  such  of  them,  I  mean,  as,  like  Manu/,are 
recognized  as  orthodox,  are  looked  upon  by  Madhava  and 
fe'ankara  <as  having'  had  access  to  Yedic  texts  now  no 
longer  extant,  as  having  held  communion  with  the  gods, 


PREFACE. 


xxi 


and  as  having  enjoyed  a  clearness  of  intuition  into  divine 
mysteries  which  is  denied  to  later  mortals  (pp.  181-185). 
S'ankara,.  however  (as  shewn  in  pj).  184-192),  does  not 
regard  all  the  ancients  as  having  possessed  this  infallible 
in<sij*ht  intb  trutl^,  Jbut  Exerts  all  his  ingenuity  to  explain 
away  the  claim's  (thpugh  clearly  sanctioned  by  an  Upani- 
sha&)  of  Kapila,  who,  was  not  orthodox  according  to  his 
Yedantic  standard,  to  rank  as  an  authority.  In  his  de- 
preciation of  Kapila,  however,  S'ankara  is  opposed  to  the 
Bhagavata  Puraxa  (p.  192).  I  then  proceed  to  observe 
(pp.  194-196)  that  although  in  ancient  times  the  authors 
of  the  different  philosophical  systems  (Dar'sanas)  no  doubt 
put  forward  their  respective  opinions  as  true,  in  oppo- 
sition to  all  the  antagonistic  systems,  yet  in  modern  times 
the  superior  orthodoxy  of  the  Vedanta  appears  to  be 
generally  recognized;  while  the  authors  of  the  other 
systems  are  regarded,  e.g.  by  Madhusudana  Sarasvati, 
as,  amid  all  their  diversities,  having  in  view,  as  tneir 
ultimate  scope,  the  support  of  the  Vedantic  theory.  The 
same  view,  in,  substane'fy  is  taken  by  Yijnana  Bhikshu, 
the  commentator  on  the  Sankhya  Sutras,  who  (pp.  196- 
203)  maintains  that  Kapila's  system,  though  atheistic,  is 
not  irreconcilable  with  the  Vedanta  and  other  theistic 
schools,  ^  its  denial  of  an  Isvara  (God)  is  only  practical, 
or  regulative,  and  merely  enforced  in  order  to  withdraw 
men  from  the  too  earnest  contemplation  of  an  eternal 
an<J-  perfect  l3eity,  which  would  impede  their  study  of 
the  distinction  between  matter  and  spirit.  To  teach 
men  this  discrimination,  as  the  great  means  of<.>attaining 
final  liberation,  is  one  of  the  two  main  objects,  and  strong 


xxii  PREFACE. 

points,  of  the  Sankhya  philosophy,  and  here  it  is  authori- 
tative ;  while  its  atheism '  is  admitted  to  be  its  weak 
side,  and  on  this  subject  it  has-  no  authority,  o  ^"ijnana 
Bhikshu  goes  on  to  say  that  it  is  even  supposable  that 
theistic  systems,  in  order  to  prevent  gipners  from  attain- 
ing knowledge,  may  lay  down  doctrines  p'artjally  opposed 
to  the  Vedas ;  and  that  though  in  ijiese'  portions  they  are 
erroneous,  they  will  still  possess  authority  in^the  portions 
conformable  to  the  S'ruti  and  Smriti.  He  then  quotes  a 
passage  from  the  Padma  Purana,  in  wbich  the  god  Siva 
tells  his  consort  Parvati  that  the  Yaiseshika,  the  Nyaya, 
the  Sankhya,  the  Purva-mimansa  Darsanas,  and  the  Ye- 
dantic  theory  of  illusion,  are  all  systems  infected  by  the 
dark  (or  tdmasd)  principle,  and  consequently  more  or  less 
unauthoritative.  All  orthodox  (dstika)  theories,  however, 
are,  as  Yijnana  Bhikshu  considers,  authoritative,  and  free 
from  error  on  their  own  special  subject.  And  as  respects 
the  discrepancy  between  the  Sankhya  and  the  Yedanta, 
regarding  the  unity  of  Soul,  he  concludes  that  the  former 
is  not  devoid  of  authority,  as  j]he  apparent  diversity  of 
souls  is  acknowledged  by  the  Yedanta,  aiid  the  discri- 
minative knowledge  which  the  Sankhya  teaches  is  an 
instrument  of  liberation  to  the  embodied  soul ;  andi  thus 
the  two  varying  doctrines,  if  regarded  as,  the,  6ne  prac- 
tical (or  regulative),  and  the  other  real  (or  transcend- 
ental), will  not  be  contradictory.  At  the  close  of  Section 
eleventh  (pp.  204-2O7)  it  is  shewn  that  the  distinction 
drawn  by  the  Indian  commentators  between  the  super- 
human ^eda  and  its  human  appendages,  the  Kalpa 
Sufras,  etc.,  as  well  as  the  Smritis,  is  not  borne  out  by 


PREFACE. 


certain  texts  which  ,1  had  previously  cited.  The  Brihad 
Aranyaka  and  Mundal^a  Upanishads  (pp.  8,  31)  seem  to 
place  all,  the  ^iffenent  sorts  of  S'astras  or  scriptures  (in- 
cluding the  tour  Vedas)  in  one  and  the  same  class,  the 
fo'r.m'er  speaking  of.  them  all  promiscuously  as  being  the 
breathing  of'  Brahma,  while  the  latter  describes  them  all 
(except  the  Upanishads)  as  being  parts  of  the  "inferior 
science,"  in  opposition  to  the  "  superior  science,"  or 
knowledge  of  Brahma.  In  the  same  spirit  as  the  Mun- 
daka,  the  Chhandogya  Upanishad  also  (quoted  in  p.  32  f.) 
includes  the  four  Vedas  in  the  same  list  with  a  variety 
of  miscellaneous  S'astras  (which  Narada  has  studied  with- 
out getting  beyond  the  confines  of  exoteric  knowledge), 
and  never  intimates  (unless  it  be  by  placing  them  at  the 
head  of  the  list)  that  the  former  can  claim  any  superior- 
ity over  the  other  works  with  which  they  are  associated. 
As,  however,  S'ankara  could  not,  in  consistency  with  the 
current  scholastic  theory  regarding  the  wide  difference 
between  the  Vedas  and  all  other  Sastras,  admit  that  the 
latter  could  have  had  a»  common  origin  with  the  former, 
he  endeavours  in  his  comment  on  the  passage  of  the 
Brihad  Aranyaka  Upanishad  to  which  I  have  adverted, 
to  s^ew  that  the  other  works,  which  a^e  there  said  to 
have  be  sn,  breathed  out  by  the  great  Being  along  with 
tho>  Vedas,  were  in  reality  -portions  of  the  Brahmanas. 
This  explanation  can  scarcely  applj  to  all  the  works  enu- 
merated, and  *its  force  is  weakened  by  the  tenor  of  the 
other  passages  from  the  Mundaka  and  Chhandogya 
Upanishads,  while  any  such  distinction  is  repudiated  in 
the  statements  of  the  Itihasas  aiid  Puranas  quoted  in 
pp.  27-30  and  105. 


xxiv  PREFACE. 

< 

In  the  twelfth  Section  (pp.  207-217)  the  arguments 
in  support  of  the  Yeda,  adduced  in  the  philosophical 
systems,  and  by  the  various  commentator's,  <as  above  sum- 
marised, are  recapitulated,  and  some  remarks  are  made 
on  these  reasonings.  My  observations  are  intended «.  to 
shew  that  the  arguments  in  question,  are  Incpnclusive,  or 
assume  the  points  to  be,,establishe$ ;  that  the  rishfs  are 
proved  by  the  contents  of  the  hymns  to  have  been  their 
real  authors ;  and  that  numerous  events  which  have 
occurred  in  time,  are  undoubtedly  mentioned  in  the 
Vedas.  This  as  we  have  seen  (above,  p.  xvi.)  is  ad- 
mitted by  S'ankara. 

The  Second  Chapter  (pp.  217-286)  exhibits  the 
opinions  of  the  rishis  in  regard  to  the  origin  of  the 
Yedic  hymns.  Its  object  is  to  shew  in  detail  that, 
though  some  at  least  of  the  rishis  appear  to  have 
imagined  themselves  to  be  inspired  by  the  gods  in  the 
expression  of  their  religious  emotions  and  ideas,  they 
at  the  same  time  regarded  the  hymns  as  their  own  com- 
positions, or  as  (presumably)  the  c>inpositiops  of  their  fore- 
fathers, distinguishing  between  them  as  new  and  old,  and 
describing  their  own  authorship  in  terms  which  could 
only  have  been  dictated,,  by  a  consciousness  of  its  reality. 
The  first,  second,  and 'third  Sections  (pp.  218-244)  con- 
tain a  collection  of  passages  'from  the  Eig-veda  in  which 
a  distinction  is  drawn  Q,)  between  therrishis  as  ancient  and 
modern,  and  (2)  between  the  hymns  as  older  and("more 
recent;  "and  in  which  (3)  the  rishis  describe  themselves  as 
the  makers,  fabricators,  or  generators  of  the  hymns ;  with 
somG  additional  texts  'in  which  such  authorship  appears 


PREFACE.  xxv 

» 

to  be  implied,  though  it  is  not  expressed.  Section  fourth 
(pp.  245-283)  contains  ,,a  variety  of  passages  from  the 
same  Yeda,  in,wAich  (1)  a  superhuman  character  or  super- 
natural faculties  are  ascribed  to  the  earlier  rishis;  and 
(2),  the  idea  is  exp^essetl  that  the  praises  and  ceremonies 
of  the  rishis  ,wef  e  suggested  and  directed  by  the  gods  in 
general,  or,  in  particular,  by  the  goddess  of  speech,  or 
by  some  other  or  others  of  the  different  deities  of  the 
Vedic  pantheon.  To  illustrate,  and  render  more  intel- 
ligible and  probable,  the  opinions  which  I  have  ascribed 
to  the  old  Indian  rishis  regarding  their  own  inspiration, 
I  have  quoted  in  the  same  Section  (pp.  267-273)  a 
number  of  passages  from  Hesiod  and  Homer  to  shew 
that  the  early  Greek  bards  entertained  a  similar  belief. 
I  then  advert  (pp.  273  -274)  to  the  remarkable  diverg- 
ence between  the  later  religious  histories  of  Greece  and 
of  India.  I  next  enquire  briefly  (in  pp.  274-275)  in 
what  way  we  can  reconcile  the  apparently  conflicting 
ideas  of  the  rishis  on  the  subject  of  the  hymns,  con- 
sidered, on  the  ,one  hand^  as  their  own  productions,  and, 
on  the  other,  a*s  inspired  by  the  gods.  Then  follow  (pp. 
275  -  279)  some  further  texts  from  *the  Eig-veda,  in 
which  a  mystical,  magical,  or  supernatural  efficacy  is 
ascribed  to»the  hymns.  These  are  succeeded  (pp.  279- 
283)  by  a  few  quotations  from  the  same  Veda,  in  which 
the  authors  complain  of  their  own  ignorance ;  and  by  a  re- 
ference* to  the  contrast  between  these^  humble  confessions 
and  the  proud  pretensions  set  up  by  later  theologians  in 
behalf  of  the  Yeda,  and  its  capability  of  imparting  uni- 
versal knowledge.  The  ideas  of  the  rishis  regarding 
their  own  inspiration  differ  widely  fr%om  the  conceptions 


xxvi  PREFACE. 


of  later  theorists ;  for  while  the  former  looked  upon  the 
gods,  who  were  confessedly  mere  created  beings,  as  the 
sources  of  supernal  illumination,,  the  latter,  eitlj-er  regard 
the  Veda  as  eternal,  or  refer  it  to  the  eternal  Brahma,  or 
Isvara,  as  its  author.  The  fiftk  and(  last  Section*  (,pp. 
283-286)  adduces  some  texts  from  the  S'vetasvatara, 
Mundaka  and  Chhandogya  Upanisjiads,  which  show  the 
Opinions  of  the  writers  regarding  the  inspiration,  of  their 
predecessors ;  and  refers  to  the  similar  claims  set  up  on 
their  own  behalf  by  the  writers  of  the«  Itihasas  and  Pu- 
ranas,  as  shewn  in  the  passages  quoted  in  pp.  27-30. 

With  all  its  imperfections  this  volume  may  perhaps 
possess  a  certain  interest,  not  only  for  the  student  of 
Indian  history,  but  also  for  the  divine  and  the  philo- 
sopher, as  furnishing  a  few  documents  to  illustrate  the 
course  of  theological  opinion  in  a  sphere  far  removed 
from  the  ordinary  observation  of  the  European  student, 
—a  course  which,  quite  independently  of  the  merits  of 
the  different  tenets  involved  in  the  enquiry,  will,  I 
think,  be  found  to  present  af  remarkable  parallel  in 
various  respects  to  that  which  is  traceable  in  the  his- 
tory of  those  religious  systems  with  which  we  are  most 
familiar.  In  both  cas§s  we  find  that  a  primitive  p,ge  of 
ardent  emotion,  of  simple  faith,  and  of  up  articulated 
beliefs,  was  succeeded  by  a»  period  of  criticism  and  spe- 
culation, when  the  Boating  materials  handed  down  by 
preceding  generations  were  compared,  classified/  recon- 
ciled, developed  into  their  consequences,  and  elaborated 
into  a  variety  of  scholastic  systems. 

^n  the  Preface  to  'the  first  edition  I  stated  as  follows : 
11  In  regard  to  the-  texts  quoted  from  the  Rig-veda,  I 


PREFACE.  xxvii 

»  » 

have  derived  the  same  sort  of  assistance  from  the  French 
version  of  M.  LangloiS)  which  has  been  acknowledged 
in  the  preface*  to  the  Sefcond  Volume,  p.  vi.  I  am  also 
indebted  for  sqme  of  the  Yedic  texts  to  Boehtlingk 
and  Jfoth's  *Lexiccvn»" 

A  comparison  of  the  former  edition  with  the  present 
will  ^hew  that  considerable  alterations  and  additions 

0  *  *    »  t 

have  been  m#de  in  the  latter.  The  texts  which  formerly 
stood  in  the  Appendix  have  now  been  transferred  to  their 
proper  places  in  the  body  of  the  work ;  and  various  other 
passages  have  been  transposed.  The  principal  additions 
will  be  found  in  the  first  four  sections,  in  the  ninth  (pp. 
115-127),  tenth  (which  is  altogether  new),  eleventh  (pp. 
185ff.),  and  in  the  Appendix. 

I  am  indebted  to  various  learned  friends  for  assistance 
in  different  parts  of  the  work,  which  I  have  acknow- 
ledged in  the  notes.  My  thanks  are  especially  due  to 
Professors  Goldstiicker  and  Cowell  for  various  important 
corrections  which  they  have  suggested  in  my  translations 
of  passages  of  ,a  scholas^c  and  philosophical  character, 
quoted  either  In  the  body  of  the  volume  or  in  the  Appen- 
dix,— corrections  which  are  incorporated  in  the  text, — as 
well  as  for  some  further  remarks*  and  suggestions  which 
will  be  fotind  in  the  notes  or  Appendix.  I  am  also  under 
obligations  to  Professor  Aufre^ht  for  some  emendations  of 
my  renderings  in  tho  early  part  of  thef  work,  as  well  as 
for  .Jiis1  explanations  of  many  of  the  texts  of  the  Kig- 
veda  cited  in  the  Second  Chapter. 

EDINBVRGH.  '  J.    3ITJIR. 

-» 
November,  1868. 


.  'CONTENTS. 


PAGE'S.,  '          ,  . 

v.  —  xxviii.  PREFACE. 

| 

1  —  217.  CHAPTEE  I.     OPINIONS  REGARDING  THE  ORIGIN,  DIVISION, 

• 

INSPIRATION,  AKD  AUTHORITY  OF  THE  VEDAS,  HELD  BY  INDIAN 
AUTHORS  SHORTLY  BEFORE,  OR  SUBSEQUENT  TO,  THE  COLLECTION 
OF  THE  HYMNS  OF  THE  RIG-YEDA. 

3  —  10.  SECT.  I.  Origin  of  the  Vedas  according  to  the  Purusha-sukta, 
the  Atharva-veda,  the  Brahmanas,  Upanishads,  and  Insti- 
tutes of  Manu. 

10  —  14.  SECT.  II.  Origin  of  the  Yedas  according  to  the  Vishnu,  Bha- 
gavata,  and  Markandeya  Puranas,  the  Harivaras'a,  the  Ma- 
habharata  ;  eternity  of  the  Veda  ;  miscellaneous  statements 
regarding  it. 

14  —  18.  SECT.  III.  Passages  »f  the  Brahmanas  and  other  works  in 
which  >the  Vedas  are  spoken  of  as  being  the  sources  of  all 
things,  and  as  infinite  and  eternal. 

18  —  36.  SECT.  IV.  Passages  from  the  Satapatha  Brahmana  and  Manu 
eulogistic  of  the  Veda,  with  sofoe  statements  of  a  different 
from  Manu  and  other  writers. 


*  * 

36  —  49.  SECT.  V.    Division  of  the  Vedas,  according  to  the  Vishnu, 

Vayu,  and  Bhagavata  Puranas,  »nd  the  Mahabharata. 
j  > 
49  —  &f.  SECT.  VI.  Accounts  in  the  Vishnu  and  Vayu  Puranas  of  the 

Schisms  between  the  adherents  of  the  Yajur-veda,  Vaisam- 
payana,  and  Yajnavalkya  ;  hostility  of  the  Atharyanas  to- 
wards the  other  Vedas  ;  and  of  the  Chhandogas  towards  %e 
Rig-veda. 


xxx  CONTENTS. 

« 

PAGES. 

57  —  70.  SECT.  VII.  Reasonings  of  the  Commentators  on  the  Vedas,  in 
support  of  the  authority  of  the  Vedas. 

70  —  108.  SECT.  VIII.  Arguments  of  '  the  MTmansakas  atd,  Vedantins 
in  support  of  the  eternity  and  authority  of  the  Vedas. 

108—138.  SECT.  IX.  Arguments  of  the*  followers  of  the  Nyaya,  'Vai- 
seshika, and  Sankhya  systems  «-:n  support  of  the  author- 
ity of  the  Ved^s,  but  against  eternity  of  sound>  and  of 
the  Vedas  ;  Vaiseshika  conception  of  the  intuitive  know- 
ledge of  the  rishis. 

138  —  179.  SECT.  X.  Extracts  from  the  Vedanta^  Sankhya,  Vaiseshika, 
and  Bhakti  aphorisms,  and  th'eir  commentators,  illustra- 
tive of  the  use  which  the  authors  of  the  diiferent  Darsanas 
make  of  Vedic  texts,  and  the  different  modes  of  interpre- 
tation which  they  adopt. 

179  —  207.  SECT.  XI.  Distinction  in  point  of  authority  between  the 

Veda  and  the  Smritis  or  non-  Vedic  S'astras,  as  stated  in 

the  Nyaya-mala-vistara,    and  by  the   commentators   on 

,  Manu,  and  the  Vedanta;  Vijnana  Bhikshu's  view  of  the 

1  Sankhya  ;  opinion  of  S'ankara  regarding  the  authority  of  the 

orthodox  rishis  ;  difference  of  view  between  him  and  Ma- 

dhusudana  regarding  the  orthodoxy  of  Kapila  and  Kanada, 

etc.  :  the  distinction  between  the  Vedqs  and  other  S'astras, 

drawn  by  later  writers,  not  borne  out  l/y  the  TJpauishads. 

207  —  217.  SECT.  XII.  Recapitulation  of  the  arguments  urged  in  the 
Darsanas,  and,  by  commentators,  in  support  of  the  autho- 
rity of  the  Vedas,  with  some  remarks  on  thesr  reasonings. 

217  —  286.  CHAPTER  II.    THE  RISHIS,  ^ND  THEIR  OPIJTIOXS  IN  BE- 

GiRD  TO  THE  OsiGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC 


218  —  224.  SECT.  I.  Passages  from  the  Hymns  of  the  Vedja  which  dis- 
tinguish between  the  Rishis  as  Ancient  and  Modern. 

2#±  —  232.  SECT.  II.  Passages  from  the  Veda  in  which  a  distinction  is 
drawn  between  the  older  and  the  more  recent  hymns. 


CONTENTS.  xxxi 

» 

PAGES. 

232 — 244.  SECT.  III.  Passages  of  the  Rig-veda  in  which  the  Rishis 
describe  themselves  as  the  composers  of  the  Hymns,  or 

intimate  nothing  to  4;he  contrary. 

t         *          • 
•» 

245 — 283.  SECT.  IV.  Passages  of  the  Rig-veda  in  which  a  supernatural 

'     .  character  is  ascribed  to  the  Rishis  or  the  Hymns ;  similar 

conceptions  of  inspiration  entertained  by  the  Greeks  of  the 

Homeric  age* ;  limitations  of  this  opinion  in  the  case  of 

the  Vedic  Riskis.  • 

>  •  » 

283 — 286.  SECT.  V.  Texts  from  the  TJpanishads,  showing  the  opinions 
of  the  authors  regarding  the  inspiration  of  their  pre- 
decessors1. 

287 — 312.  APPENDIX. 

287.  Quotation  from  the  Atharva-veda  xi.  7,  24. 

287 — 288.  Amended  translations  by  Professor  Aufrecht. 

288 — 289.  Quotations  from  Manu  and  the  Mahabharata  on  Vedic  and 
other  study. 

289 — 290.  Various  illustrative  quotations  and  references.. 
290.  Amended  translation  by  Professor  Co  well. 

290.  Note  by  Professor  Cowell  on  the  phrase  Kalatyayapadishta. 

291.  Amended  translation  by  Professor  Cowell. 

292 — 300.  Quotation  of  Brahma  Sutras,  i.  3,  34-38,  with  S'ankara's 
comments,  shewing  the  incompetence  of  S'udras  to  acquire 
the  highest  divine  knowledge,  with  a, short  passage  of  a 
contrary  tenor  from  the  Bhagavat  Gita. 

300—308.  Quotation  from  Brahma^  Sutras,  i.  3,  30,  with  S'ankara's 

comment,  in  continuation  of  the  reasoning  in  pp.  101-105 

in  support  of  *  the  eternity  of  the  w«rds  of  the  Veda,  and 

,,'  '         in  refutation  of  the  objections  derived  from  the  alleged 

•»  non-eternity  of  creation ; '  with  Brahma   Sutra,  ii.  1,  36, 

and  part  of  S'ankara's  comment. 

» 

308 — 309.  Quotation  from  Manu,  ii.  14  f. ;  'and  from  Kulluka  in^ex- 
planation  of  the  term  samayddhyushita. 


xxxii  CONTENTS. 

^ 

PAGES. 

309 — 10.     Corrections  by  Professors  Cowell  and  Goldstiicker. 

310.         Quotation  from  Commentary  on  Vishnu  Purana,  i.  17,  54. 

<  i 

310.  Quotation  from«Yajasaneyi  Samhita^xiii.  45,  an&  ^'atapatha 

Brahmana,  vii.  5,  2,  21. 

311.  Additional  texts  (i.  67,  4;  'i.  10-9,i  1,  2;    and  x.  665  5) 

from  the   Rig-veda,   regarding-,  the  'composition   of  the 
hymns.  r  < 

312.  Supplementary  note  by  Prof.  Goldstiicker,   on   Kalatya- 

yapadishta. 


ERRATA    ET    CORRIGENDA, 
r 

Page  24,  line  11.  For  Brahma  read  Brahma. 

„     45,  „  15.  For  Yayush  read  Tajush. 

„     53,  „      8.  For  theologicans  ,read  theologians. 

„     62,  „      2  from  foot :  For  iO  author  read  <;heir  authors. 

„     85,  „      4        „  Before  Prajapatir  inse'rt  xi.  243. 

„     95,  „  C        „  For  dhvanitvam  read  dhvanitam. 

„     96,  .,  16.  The  same  correction. 

„  101,  „  22.  Fo^^'Vanap.  read  S'antip. 

,,  149,  ,,      6.  For  sabdadikshiter  read  sabdad  tksfyitef. 

„  159,  „  16.  For  chainfyi-  read  cha  indri-. 

„  159,  „  31.  For  paratvou-  read  paratvo-. 

„  160,  „  18.  F^r  punar-utpattir  ret,d  punar-anutpattir. 

„  213,  „  16.  For  p.  120  read  p.  118.  ( 

„  221,  „  24.  For  vi.  21,  1  read  vi.  21,  8. 

,,  224,  ,,      7  from  foot.  Omit  dhishan~i. 

f  „  261,  „  12.  For  vi.  62,  3  read  vi.  26,  3. 


\ 


ORIGINAL '  SANSKRIT  TEXTS. 


"VXDI/CTME      THIUD. 


CHAPTER  I. 

OPINIONS  REGARDING  THE  ORIGIN,  DIVISION,  INSPIRATION,  AND 
AUTHORITY  OF  THE  VEDAS,  HELD  BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS 
SHORTLY  BEFORE,  OR  SUBSEQUENT  TO,  THE  COLLECTION  OF 
THE  HYMNS  OF  THE  RIG-VEDA. 

IN  the  preceding  volumes  of  this  work1  I  have  furnished  a  general 
account  of  the  ancient  Indian  writings,  which  are  comprehended  under 
the  designation  of  Veda  or  S'ruti.  These  works,  which,  as  we  have 
seen,  constitute  the  earliest  literature  of  the  Hindus,  are  broadly  divi- 
sible into  two  classes^:  (1)  The  Mantras  or  hymns,  in  which  the  praises 
of  the  gods  are  celebrated  and  their  blessing  is  invpked;  (2)  the  Brah- 
manas,  which  embrace  (a)  the  liturgical  institutes  in  which  the  cere- 
monial application  of  these  hymns  is  declared,  ^the  various  rites  of  sacri- 
fice are  preserved,  and  the  origin  and  hidden  import  of  the  different 
forms  ar.e  explained,  and  (#)  the  Aranyakas,2  and  Upanishads  (called  also 
Vedantas,  i.e.  concluding  portions  of  the  Vedas),  which  in  part  possess 
the  same  character  as<*ome  of  the  earlier  portions  of  tfte  Brahmanas,  and 
are  in  p^rt  theological  treatises  in  which  the  spiritual  aspirations  which 
•> 

1  See  Vol.  I.  pp.  2ff.  and  Vol.  II.  pp.  169  ff.     See  also  Professor  Max  Miiller's 
History  of  Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature. 

2  For  more  precise  information  see  Miiller's  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  pp.  313  ff.  from  which1* 
it  will  be  perceived  that  only  some  of  the  Aranyakas  form  part  of  the  Bruhmanas,  and 
that  two  of  the  Upanishads  are  included  in  a  Sanhita. 


2  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

•were  gradually  developed  in  the  minds  of  ""the  more  devout  of  the 
Indian  sages  are  preserved.  It  is,  therefore,  clear  that  the  hymns  con- 
stitute the  original  and,  in  some  respects,  the  mqst  Essential  portion  of  the 
Veda ;  that  the  Brahmanas  arose  out  of  the  hymns,  and  are  Subservient  • 
to  their  employment  for  the  purposes  of  worship  ;  -#hile  the  Upanishads 
give  expression  to  ideas  of  a  speculative  and  niystical  character  which, 
though  to  some  extent  discovejable  in  tht  hymns  and  in  the  older 
portion  of  the  Brahmanas,  sre  much  further  "matured,  and  assume  a 
more  exclusive  importance,  in  these  later  treatises. 

I  content  myself  here  with  referring  the  reader  who  desires  to  obtain 
a  fuller  idea  of  the  nature  of  the  hymns,  and  of  the  mythology  which 
they  embody,  to  the  late  Professor  H.  H.  .Wilson's  translation  of  the 
earlier  portion  of  the  Eig-veda,  to  his  prefaces  to  the  several  volumes, 
to  Professor  Max  Miiller's  History  of  Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature, 
and  to  two  papers  of  my  own  in  the  Journal  of  the  Eoyal  Asiatic 
Society,  entitled  Contributions  to  a  knowledge  of  the  Cosmogony  and 
Mythology  of  the  Eig-veda.  In  the  fourth  volume  of  this  work  I 
return  to  the  latter  branch  of  the  subject,  and  compare  the  conceptions 
which  the  rishis  entertained  of  the  different  objects  of  their  worship, 
with  those*  representations  of  the  deities  who  bore  the  same  names, 
which  occur  in  Indian  writings  of  a  later  date,  whether  mythological 
or  theological. 

The  task  to  which  I  propose  in  the  meantime  to  devote  myself,  is  to 
supply  some  account  of  the  opinions  entertained  by  Hindu  writers, 
ancient  and  modern,  in  regard  to  the  origin  and  authority  of  the  Vedas. 
With  this  view  I  haVe  collected  from  some  of  the  later  hymns,  from 
the  Indian  writings  of  the  middle  and  later  Vedic  era  (the  Brahmanas 
and  Upanishads)  as  well ' as  from  the  books,  whether  popular  or  scien- 
tific, of  the  post-vedic  period  (the  Puranas,  the  Itihafas,  the  Institutes 
of  Manu,  the  aphorisms  of  the  l)arsanas,  or  systems  of  philosophy,  and 
their  commentators,  and^the  commentaries  on  the  Vedas)  such  passages 
as  I  have  discovered  which  have  reference  to  thes'e  subjects,  r r^d  propose 
to  compare  the  opinions  there  set  forth  with  the  ideas  entertained  on 
some  of  these  points  by  the  writers  of  the  more  ancient  hymns,  as 
deducuile  from  numerous  passages  in  their  own  compositions. 

The  mythical  accoMnts  which  are  given  of  the  origin  of  the  Vedas 


t  OF    THE    VEDAS,    HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  3 

are  mutually  conflicting.  In  some  passages  they  are  said  to  have  been 
created  by  Prajapati  from  fire,  air,  and  the  sun,  or  by  some  other 
process.  In^  othy  texts  they>  are  said  to^  have  been  produced  by 
Brahma  from  hL\  different  mouths,  or  by  the  intervention  of  the 
Gayatri,  or  to  have  sprung  /rom  the  goddess  Sarasvati,  or  to  have 
otherwise  arisen.  I  proceed  to  adduce  these  several  passages. 

3  O  •"•  * 

J  * 

• 

SECT.  1^ — Origin   of  the    "Peda-s   according   td  the   Purusha-sukta,    the 
Atharva-veda?  the  Srdhmanas,  Upanishads,  and  Institutes  of  Manu. 

Purusha-siikta. — In  the  ninth  verse  of  this  hymn  (Big-veda,  x.  90, 
already  quoted  in  Yol.  I.  pp.  8  and  9)  the  three  Vedas  are  said  to  have 
been  produced  from  the  mystical  victim  Purusha :  Tasmdd  yajndt 
sarva-hutah  ricJiah  sdmdni  jajnire  \  chhanddmsi  jajnire  tasmdd  yajus 
tasmdd  ajdyata  \  "From  that  universal  sacrifice  sprang  the  rich  and 
saman  verses  :  the  metres  sprang  from  it :  from  it  the  yajush  arose."3 

This  is  the  only  passage  in  the  hymns  of  the  Big-veda  in  which  the 
creation  of  the  Vedas  is  described. 

In  the  Atharva-veda  the  following  texts  refer  to  that  subject : 

x.  7,  14.  Yattra  rishayah  prathamajdh  richah  sdma  yajur  mahl,  \ 
ekarshir  yasminn  drpitah  Skambham  tarn  truhi  katamah  svid  eva  sah  \ 
....  20.  Yasmdd  richo  apdtakshan  yajur  yasmdd  apdkashan  \  sdmdni 
yasya  lomdni  atharvdngiraso  mykham  \  Skambham  tarn  Iruhi  katamah 
svid  eva  sah  \  "* 

/'Declare  who  that  Skambha  (supporting-principle)  is  in  whom  the 
primeval  rishis,  the  rich,  saman,  and  yajush,  the  earth,  and  the  one 

rishi,   aje  sustained 20.  Declare  srho  is  that  Skambha  from 

whom  they  <}ut  off  the  rich  verses,  from  whom  they  scraped  off  the 
yajush,  of  whom  the  saman  verses  ^ire  the  hairs,  and  the  verses  of 
Atharvan  and  Angiras  the  mouth." 

» 

3  The  wofd  veda,  in  ^h'atever  sense  we  are  to  understand  it,  occurs  in  R.V.  viii. 
19,  5  :  ~V«A  samidha  yah  ahuti  yo  vedena  dadasa  inartyo  agnaye  \  yo  namasa  svadhva- 
rah  |  6.  Tasya  id  arvanto  ramhayante  asavas  tasya  dyumnitamam  yaiah  \  na  tarn 
amho  deva-kritam  kutas  chana  na  martya-kritam  nasat  \  "  The  horses  of  that  mortal 
who,  devoted  to  sacrifice,  does  homage  to  Agni  with  fuel^  with  an  oblation,  with  ritual 
knowledge  (?),  with  reverence, — (6)  speed  forward  impetuously;  and  his  renown  is 
most  glorious.  No  calamity,  caused  either  by  god  or  bv  man,  can  assail  him  from 
any  quarter." 


4  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC.,  t 

xiii.  4,  38.  Sa  vai  riglhyo  ajdyata  tasmdd  richo  ajdyanta  \ 
"He  (apparently  Indra,  see  verse  44)osprang  from,  the  rich  verses: 
the  rich  verses  sprang  from  him."      l  .  <     L    * 

xix.  54,  3.  Kdldd  richah  samabJiavan  yajuh  kdldd/>  ajdyata  \ 
11  From  Time  the  rich  verses  sprang :  the  yajush  sprang  from  Time."  4 
The  following  texts  from  the  same  Veda  may  a*iso  be  introduced  here  : 
iv.  35,  6.  Yasmdt  paTcvdd  amritam  sambc&huva  yo  qdyatrydh  adJii- 
patir  babhuva  \  yasmin  veddte1  nihitdh  visvsrupds  tenaudanendtv- tardmi 
mrityum  \ 

"I  overpass  death  by  means  of  that  oblation  (odana),  from  which, 
when  cooked,  ambrosia  (amrita)  was  produced,  which  became  the  lord 
of  the  Gayatri,  and  in  which  the  omniform  Vedas  are  comprehended." 
vii.  54,  1.  Richam  sdma  yajdmahe  ydlJiydm  karmdni  Icurvate  \  ete  sadasi 
rdjato  yajnam  deveshu  yachhatah  \  2.  RicTiam  sdma  yad  aprdksham  havir 
ojo  yajur  balam  \  esha  md  tasmdd  md  himsid  vedah  prishtah  saclilpate  \ 

"  We  worship  the  Rich  and  the  Saman,  wherewith  men  celebrate 
religious  rites,  which  shine  in  the  assembly,  and  convey  sacrifices  to 
the  gods.  2.  Inasmuch  as  I  have  asked  the  Rich  and  the  Saman  for 
butter  and  for  vigour,  and  the  Yajush  for  strength, — let  not  the  Veda, 
so  asked,  destroy  me,  o  lord  of  strength  (Indra)." 

The  next  passage  is  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xi.  5,  8,  IS. : 
Prajdpatir  vai  idam  agre  dsld  eJcah  eva  \  so  'kdmayata  sydm  prajdyeya 
iti  |  So'srdmyat  sa  tapo 'tapyata  \  tasmdcJi  cJirdntdt  tepdnut  trayo  lokdh 
asrijyanta  prithivy  antariksham  dyauh  f' sa  imams  tfln  lokdn  abliitatdpa  \ 
tebhyas  taptelJiyas  trini  jyotimshy  ajdyanta  agnir  yo  'fyam  pavate  suryah  \ 
sa  imdni  trini  jyotimshy  alhitatdpa  \  telhyas  taptelhyas  trayo  vedtih 
ajdyanta  agner  figvedo  vdyyr  yajurvedah  surydt  sdmavedah  \  sa  imams 
trin  veddn  abliitatdpa  \  tetfhyas  taptelhyas  trini  sukrdny  ajdyanta  bhur 
ity  rigveddd  bhuvah  iti  yajurveddt  svar  iti  sdmaveddt  \  Tad  rigvedenaiva 
hotram  aTcurvata  yajurvedena  ddlwaryavam  sdmavedena  udgltham  \  yad 
eva  trayyai  vidydya\  sulcrwn  tena  brahmatvxm  uchcliakrdma. 

"Prajapati  was  formerly  this  universe  [i.e.  the  sole  existence],  one 
only.  He  desired,  'may  I  become,  may  I  be  propagated.'  He  toiled 

4  See  y.y  translation  of  the  entire  hymn  in  the  Journal  of  the  Roy.  As.  Soc.  for 
1§65,  p.  381.  The  Vishnu  Parana,  i.  2,  13,  says:  TM  eva  sarvam  evaitad  vyakta- 
vyakta-svarupavat  \  tatha  purusha-rupena  kala-rupena  cha  sthitam  \  "  This  (Brahma) 
is  all  this  universe,  existing,,both  as  the  perceptible  and  the  imperceptible  ;  existing 
also  in  the  forms  of  Purusha  and  of  Kala  (Time)." 


I 


OF    THE    VEDAS,   HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  5 

) 

in  devotion,  he  perforated  austerity.  From  him,  when  he  had  so 
toiled,  and  performed  austerity,  three  worlds  were  created, — earth,  air, 
and  sky.  He  infused  warmth  ijito  these  three  worlds.  From  them, 
thus  headed,  three  lights  were  produced,1— Agni  (fire),  this  which 
purifies  (i.e.  Pava&a,  or  Vayu,  the  wind),5  and  Surya  (the  sun).  He 
infused  heat  into  the?£  -.,  three*  lights.  From  them  so  heated  the  three 
Vedas  were  produced, — the  Rig-veda  from  Agni  (fire),  the  Tajur-veda 

j 

from  Vayu  (wind),  aad  the  Sama-veda  from  Surya  (the  sun).  He 
infuse'd? warmth  into  these  three  Yedas.  From  them  so  heated  thres 
luminous  essences  were  produced, — bhuh  from  the  Eig-veda,  bhuvah 
from  the  Tajur-veda,  and  svar  from  the  Sama-veda.  Hence,  with  the 
Eig-veda  they  performed  the  function  of  the  hotri ;  with  the  Yajur- 
veda,  the  office  of  the  adhvaryu ;  with  the  Sama-veda,  the  duty  of  the 
udgatri  ;  while  the  function  of  the  brahman  arose  through  the  luminous 
essence  of  the  triple  science  [i.e.  the  three  Vedas  combined]." 

Chhdndogya  Upanishad. — A  similar  passage  (already  quoted  in  Volume 
Second,  p.  200)  occurs  in  the  Chhandogya  Upanishad  (p.  288  of 
Dr.  Eoer's  ed.)  : 

Prajdpatir  loTcdn  abhyatapat  \  teshdm  tapyamdndndm  rasdn  prdlrihad 
agnim  prithivydh,  vdyum  antarikshdd  ddityam  dwah  \  sa  etas  tisro  devatdh 
abhyatapat  \  tdsdm  tapyamanandm  rasdn  prdbrihad  agner  richo  vdyor 
yajumshi  sdma  dditydt  \  sa  etdm  trayzm  vidydm  abhyatapat  \  tasyds 
tapyamdndydh  rasdn  prdbrihad  bhur  iti  riglhyo  bhuvar  iti  yajurlhyah 
svar  iti  sdmalhyah  |^  % 

"  Prajapati  infixed  warmth  into  the  worlds,  and  from  them  so  heated 
Ke  drew  forth  their  essences,  viz.  Agni  (fire)  /rom  the  earth,  Vayu 
(wind)  from  the  air,  and  Surya  (the  sun)  from  the  ^ sky.  He  infused 
warmtn  into  these  three  deities,  and  from  tfyem  so  heated  he  drew  forth 
their  essendes,3 —  from  Agni  the  rich  verses,  from  Vayu  the  yajush 
verses,  and  from  Surya  the  saman  verses.  He  then  infused  heat  into 
this  triple  science,  and  from  it  so  heated  he  drew  forth  its  essences, — 

*  "ft 

from  rich  verses  &e  syllable  bhuh,  from  yajush^  verses  bhuvah,  and 
from  fcaman  verses  svar."  6 

9 

6  See  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  vi.  1,  2,  19  :  .  .  .  ayam  eva  sa  Vayur  yo  'j/am  pavate 
.  .  .  "This  is  that  Vayu,  hes who  purifies."  5 

*  Passages  to  the  same  effect  occur  also  in  the  Aitareya  (v.  32-34)  and  Kaushi- 
takl  Brahmanas.  That  in  the  former  will  be  found  in  Pr.  Haug's  translation  of  the 


6  OPINIONS  REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,    ETC., 

Manu. — The  same  origin  is  assigned  to  the  Chree  Yedas  in  the  follow- 
ing verses  from  the  account  of  the  creation  in  Manu,  i.  21-23,  where 
the  idea  is  no  doubt  borrowed  from  the  Brahmanas : 

Sarveshdm  tu  sa  ndmdni  karmdni  cha  pritliak  prithak  \  V^d^-sabdelhya 
evddau  prithak  samsthds  cha  m'rmame  \  KarmdtmaKdm  cha  devdndm  so 
'srijat  prdnindm  prabhuh  \  sddhydndm'  cha  ganam  sukshmam  yagnam 
chaiva  sandtanam  \  Agni-vdyu-ravibhyas  tu  frayani  brahma  sandtanam  \ 
dudoha  yajna-siddhyartham  riq-yajuh-sdma-lahshunam  \  , 

•  "He  [Brahma]  in  the  beginning  fashioned  from  the  words  of  the  Yeda 
the  several  names,  functions,  and  separate  conditions  01  all  [creatures]. 
That  Lord  also  created  the  subtile  host  of  active  and  living  deities,  and 
of  Sadhyas,  and  eternal  sacrifice.  And  in  ordev  to  the  performance  of 
sacrifice,  he  drew  forth  from  Agni,  from,  Vayu,  and  from  Surya,  the 
triple  eternal  Veda,  distinguished  as  Rich,  Yajush,  and  Saman." 

Kulluka  Bhatta,  the  commentator,  annotates  thus  on  this  passage  : 

Sandtanam  nityam  \  veddpaurusheyatva  -  paksho  Manor  abhimatah  \ 
purva-hal/pe  ye  vedds  te  eva  Paramdtma-murtte'r  Bralimanah  sarvajnasya 
smrity-drudhdh  \  tan  eva  kalpdddv  agni-vdyu-ravibhyah  dchakarsha  \ 
srautas  cha  ay  am  artho  na  sanitarily  ah  \  tathdcha  smtih  \  "  agner  rigvedo 
vayor  yajurvedah  dditydt  sdmavedah  "  Hi  \ 

."The  word  sandtana  means  '  eternally  pre-existing.'  The  doctrine 
of  the  superhuman  origin  of  the  Yedas  is  maintained  by  Manu.  The 
same  Yedas  which  [existed]  in  the  previous  mundane  era  (Kalpa)  were 
preserved  in  the  memory  of  the  omnisfient  Brahm^,  who  was  one  with 
the  supreme'  Spirit.  It  was  those  same  Yedas  that,  t.n  the  beginning  of 
the  [present]  Kalpa,  t.e  drew  forth  from  Agni,  Yayu,  and  Surya :  and 
this  dogma,  which  is  founded  upon  the  Yeda,  is  not  to  be  questioned, 
for  the  Yeda  says,  '  the  Rig,-v"eda  comes  from  Agni,  the  Yajur-ve'da  from 
Yayu,  and  the  Sama-veda  from  Surya.'  "  <• 

Another  commentator  on  Manu,r  Medhatithi,  explains  this  passage  in 
a  more  rationalistic  fashion,  "  by  remarking  that  the  Rig-veda  opens 
with  a  hymn  to  fire/ and  the  Yajur-veda  with  one  ij.  which  a\r  is  men- 
tioned."— Colebr.  Misc.  Ess.  i.  p.  11,  note. 

» 

Brahmana :  and  the  one  in  the  latter  is  rendered  into  German  by  Weber  in  his  Ind. 
Stud.  ii.  363  ff.  t  ° 

f  Kulluka  explains  this  to  mean,  "  Having  understood  them  from  the  words  of 
the  Yeda"  ( Veda-s abdebhyafy  eva  avagamya). 


OF  THE  VEDAS,   HELD   BY   INDIAN   AUTHORS.  7 

> 

To  the  verses  from  Jk&rau  (i.  21-23)  just  cited,  the  following  from 
the  second  book  may  be  added,  partly  for  the  purpose  of  completing 
the  parallel  with  the  passage's  previously  adduced  from  the  S'atapatha 
Brahman*  and  tfte  ChhSndogya  Upanishad  :* 

Manu,  ii.  76  ff. \4.kdram  cJtdpy  ukdram  cha  makdraih  cha  Prajdpatih  | 
Veda-lraydd  ;iiraduhad  .bhur'bhuvah  svar  itlti  cha  |  77.  Tribhyah  eva  tu 
vedebhyah  pddam,  pddam  aduduhat  \  uta&n  ity  richo  'sydh  sdvitrydh 
parameshthl  prajdpatih  \  ....  Sl.'Omkdra-purvikds  tisro  mahdvydh- 
ritayd  '-vyaydh  \  Tripadd  ctiaiva  gdyatrl  vijneyarp  Brahmano  mukham. 

76.  "Prajapati  also  milked  out  of  the  three  Yedas  the  letters  a,  u, 
and  m,  together  with  the  words  bhuh,  bhuvah,  and  svar.  77.  The  same 
supreme  Prajapati  also  milked  from  each  of  the  three  Yedas  one  of  the 
[three]  portions  of  the  text  called  sdvitrl  [or  gdyatrl~\,  beginning  with 
the  word  tat.6  ....  81.  The  three  great  imperishable  particles  (bhuh, 
bhuvah,  svar}  preceded  by  om,  and  the  gdyatrl  of  three  lines,  are  to  be 
regarded  as  the  mouth  of  Brahma." 

The  next  passage,  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  vi.  1,  1,  8,  first 
speaks  generally  of  Prajapati  creating  the  three  Yedas,  and  then  after- 
wards, with  some  inconsistency,  describes  their  production  from  the 
waters : 9 

So^yam  purushah  Prajdpatir  aTcdmayata  "  bhuydn  sydbi  prajdyeya" 
iti  |  so  'srdmyat  sa  tapo  'tapyata  \  sa  srdntas  tepdno  brahma  eva  pratha- 
mam  asrijata  trayim  eva  vidydm  {  sd  eva  asmai  pratisJithd  'bhavat  \  tas- 
mdd  dhur  "brahma  asya  savyasya  pratishthd"  iti  \  tasmdd  anuchya, 
pratitisTithati  \  pratishthd  hy  eshd  yad  brahma  \  tasydm  pratishthdydm 
pratishthito  'tapyata  \  9.  So'po'sryata  vdchah  eva  lokdt  \  vdg  eva  asya 
sd  'srijyata  \  sd  idam  sarvam  dpnod  yad  idam  kincha  \  yad  dpnot  tasmdd 
dpah^  yad  avrtnot  tasmdd  vdh  \  10.  89  'kdmayata  "  dbhyo'dbhyo'dhi 
prajdyeya ';  iti  \  so  'nayd  trayyd  mdyayd  saha  apah  prdnsat  \  tatah 
dnda/h  samavarttata  \  tad  abhyamrisyt  \  "astv"  ity  "astu  bhuyo  'stv"  ity 
eva  tad  abravit  \  tato  brahma  eva  prathamam  asrijyata  trayy  eva  vidyd  \ 

tasmdd  dhur  tl  brahma  asya  sarvasya  pratfiumajasi"  iti  \  api  hi  tasmdt 

•• 
purifshdd  brahma    eva  purvam   asrijyata   tad  asya    tad   mukham    eva 

asrijyata   \*  tasmdd  anuchdnam  dhur  "  agni-kalpah "  iti  \  mukham  hy 
etad  agner  yad  brahma  \ 

8  This  text,  Eig-veda,  in.  62,  10,  will  be  quoted  in  the  sequel. 

9  This  passage  with  the  preceding  context  is  given  in  the  Fourth  Volume  of  this 
work,  pp.  18  f. 


8  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORJGIN,  ETC., 

i 

"  This  Male,  Prajapati,  desired,  '  May  I  multiply,  may  I  be  propa- 
gated.' He  toiled  in  devotion ;  he  practised  austere-fervour.  Having 
done  so  he  first  of  all  created  sacred  knowledge,  the  triple  Vedic  science. 
This  became  a  basis  for  hjm.  "Wherefore  men1  say,  '<dacre£  knowledge 
is  the  basis  of  this  universe.'  Hence  after  studyj^g  the  Veda  a  man 
has  a  standing  ground ;  for  sacred  knowledge  is  his  foundation.  Resting 
on  this  basis  he  (Prajapati)  practised  austere-fervour,  9.  He  created 
the  waters  from  Vach  (speech),  at,  their  world.  Vach  "vtas  his :  she  was 
created.  She  pervaded  all, this  'whatever  exists.  As  she  pervaded  (&pnot\ 
waters  were  called  '  apah.'  As  she  covered  (avrinof]  all,  .water  was  called 
'  var.'  10.  He  desired,  '  May  I  be  propagated  from  these  waters.'  Along 
with  this  triple  Vedic  science  he  entered  the  waters.  Thence  sprang 
an  egg.  He  gave  it  an  impulse  ;  and  said,  '  Let  there  be,  let  there  be, 
let  there  be  again.'  Thence  was  first  created  sacred  knowledge,  the 
triple  Vedic  science.  Wherefore  men  say,  '  Sacred  knowledge  is  the 
first-born  thing  in  this  universe.  Moreover,  it  was  sacred  knowledge 
which  was  created  from  that  Male  in  front,  wherefore  it  was  created  as 
his  mouth.  Hence  they  say  of  a  man  learned  in  the  Veda,  '  He  is  like 
Agni;  for  sacred  knowledge  is  Agni's  mouth.'  " 

The  next  passage  from  the  Taittirlya  Brahmana,  ii.  3,  10,  1,  briefly 
states  that  tha  Vedas  were  created  after  Soma : 

Prajdpatih  Somam  rdjdnam  asrijata  \  tarn  trayo  veddh  anv  asrijyanta  \ 

"Prajapati  created  king  Soma.  After  him  the  three  Vedas  were 
created."  , 

The  sam^  Brahmana  in  other  places,  as  iii.  3,  *2,  1,  speaks  of  the 
Veda  as  derived  from  Prajapati  (Prdjdpalyo  vedali). 

S'atapatha  Brahmana. — According  to  the  following  passage  of  the 
S'atapatha  Brahm'una,  xiv.  £,  4,  10  (=Brihad  Aranyaka  Uparaishad, 
p.  455  of  Roer's  ed.  and  p.  179  of  trans.)  the  Vedas,  as  woll  as  other 
S'astras,  are  the  breath  of  Brahma : 

Sa  yatJid  drdredhdgner  abhydkitdt  prithag  dhumdk  vinischaranti  evam 
vai  are  'sya  mahato  Jhutatya  ntsvasitam  e'tad  yad(rigvedo  yajurvedah 
sdrnavedo  'tharvdngirasah  itihdsah  purdnaih  vidyd  upanishadali  ' slokdh 
sutrdny  anuvydkhydndni  vydkhydndni  asyaiva  etdni  savvdni  nisva- 
sitdni  \ 

"  As  from  a  fire  made  of  moist  wood  various'  modifications  of  smoke 
proceed,  so  is  the  breathing  of  this  great  Being  the  Eig-veda,  the 


OF  THE  VEJDAS,   HELD  BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  9 

i 

Yajur-veda,  the  Sama-ve,da,  the  Atharvangirases,  the  Itihasas,  Puranas, 
science,  the  Upanishads,  verses  (sloTtas},  aphorisms,  comments  of  dif- 
ferent kinds — all  these  are  his'breathings." 

•  * 

It  is  curious  tiat  in 'this  passage  the  Vedas  appear  to  be  classed  in 
the  same  category 'with  various  other  works,  such  as  the  Sutras,  from 
sorrfe  Jt  least  ,of  which  (as  we  shall  see  further  on),  they  are  broadly 

>  ^    * 

distinguished  bjj  later  writers,  who  regard  the  former  (including  the 
Brahmanas  and*  Upanjshads)  as  of  snperhuman  origin,  and  infallible 
correctness,  while  this  charter  is  exprelsly  Denied  to  the  latter,  which 
are  represented  £,s  paurusheya,  or  merely  human  compositions,  possessed 
of  no  independent  authority. 

In  the  Brihad  Aranyaka  Upanishad  (pp.  50-53  of  Dr.  Roer's  ed.) 
Prajapati  [identified  with  Death,  or  the  Devourer]  is  said  to  have  pro- 
duced Vuch  (speech),  and  through  her,  together  with  soul,  to  have 
created  all  things,  including  the  Vedas  : 

Sa  tayd  vdchd  tena  dtmand  idam  sarvam  asrijata  yad  idam  Jcincha 
richo  yajumshi  sdmdni  chhanddmsi  yajndn  prajtih  pasun  \ 

"  By  that  speech  and  that  soul  he  created  all  things  whatsoever, 
rich,  yajush,  and  saman  texts,  metres,  sacrifices,  creatures,  and  animals." 

And  in  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xiv.  4,  3,  12  (p.  290  of  the  same  Bri- 
had Aranyaka  Upanishad)  it  is  said  :  • 

Trayo  veddh  ete  eva  \  vag  eva  rig-vedo  mand  yajur-vedah  pranah  sdma- 
vedah  \ 

"The  three  Vedas  are  [identifiable  with]  these  three  things  [speech, 
mind,  and  breath].*  Speech  is  the  Eig-veda,  mind  the  Ya^ur-veda,  and 
breath  the  Sama-veda." 

The  following  text,  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  vii.  5,  2,  52,  gives 
a  singular  account  of  the  production  of  tke  Vedas :  * 

"Samudte  tvd  sadane  sadayami"  iti  \  Mano  vai  samudrah  \  manaso  vai 
sami(drud  vdchd  'bhryd  devds  traylm^mdyum  nirakhanan  \  tad  esha  sloko 
'Ihyuhtah  llye(yatt}  samudrud  nirahhanan  devas  tlkshndbhir  abhribhih  \ 
sudevo  adya  tad  vifyad  yatra  nirvapanam  chidhur"  iti  \  manah  samudro 
vdk  iihshna  'bhris  trayl  vidya  nirvapanam  \  etad  esha  sloko  'bhyuktah  \ 
manasi  taf!.*sddayati  \ 

"  '  I  settle  thee  in  the  ocean  as  thy  seat.' 10    Mind  is  the  ocean. 

•  9 

10  I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Aufrecht  for  the  following  explanation  of  this  formula, 
which  is  taken  from  the  Vujasaneyi  Sanhitu,  xiii.  53.  The  words  are  addressed  to  a 


10  OPINIONS  REGARDING    THE   ORIGIN,   ETC., 

From  the  mind-ocean  with  speech,  for  a  shorel  the  gods  dug  out  the 
triple  Vedic  science.  Hence  this  verse  has  been  uttered :  '  May  the 
brilliant  deity  to-day  know  where  they  placed^  that  offering  which 
the  gods  dug  out  with  sharp  shovels.'  Mind  is  the  odean  ; 'speech  is  the 
sharp  shovel;  the  triple  Vedic  science  is  the  offering.  In  reference 
to  this  the  verse  has  been  uttered.  He  settles  it  in  Mind." 

The  next  passage  from  the  Taittiriya  Brahmana;  iii;  39,  1,  speaks  of 
the  Yeda  as  being  "the  hair  &f  Prajapati's  beard "" (Prajdpater  vai 
etdni  smasruni  yad  vedah}.  The  process  of  its  germination  is  left  to  the 
imagination  of  the  reader. 

In  another  text  of  the  same  Brahmana,  Vach  (speech)  is  called  the 
mother  of  the  Yedas  : 

ii%  8,  8,  5.  Vdg  aTcsharam  prathamajd  ritat>ya  veddndm  maid  amritasya 
ndbhih  \  sd  no  jushdnd  upa  yajnam  dgdd  avantl  devl  suhavd  me  astu  \ 
yam  rishayo  mantra-krito  manlshinah  anvaichhan  deuds  tapasd  sramena  \ 

"  Yach  (speech)  is  an  imperishable  thing,  and  the  first-born  of  the 
ceremonial,  the  mother  of  the  Yedas,  and  the  centre-point  of  immor- 
tality. Delighting  in  us,  she  came  to  the  sacrifice.  May  the  pro- 
tecting goddess  be  ready  to  listen  to  my  invocation, — she  whom  the 
wise  rishis,  the  composers  of  hymns,  the  gods,  sought  by  austere- 
fervour,  and~by  laborious  devotion." 


SECT.  II. — Origin  of  the  Vedas  according  to  the  Vishnu,  Bhdgavata,  and 
MdrJcandeya  Purdnas,  the  Harivamsa,  the  Mahabhdrata ;  eternity  of 
the  Veda ;  miscellaneous  statements  regarding  it. 

In  the  Vishnu  and  Bhagavata  Puranas  we  find  a  quite  different 
tradition  regarding  the  origili  of  the  Vedas,  which  in  these  works  are 
said  to  have  been  created  by  the  four-faced  Brahma  froni  his  several 
mouths.  Thus  the  Vishnu  Puran'".  says,  i.  5,  48  ff. : 

Gdyatraiii  cha  richas  chaiva  trivrit-sdma-rathantaram  \  dgnishtomam 
cha  yajndndih  nirm&me  prathamdd  mukhdt  \  yajfmshi  traiyhtubham 
chhandah  stomam  panchadasam  tathd  \  Vrihat  sdma  tathokthya'iii  cha 
dakshindd  asrijad  mukhdt  \  sdmdni  jagatl-chhandah  stomam  saptadasam 

brick  at  th^time  when  the  hearth  (chitya)  for  the  reception  of  the  sacred  fires  is  being 
constructed.  As  the  bricks  are  severally  called  apasya  (properly  '  efficacious,'  but 
erroneously  derived  from  «p)  they  are  addressed  as  if  placed  in  various  parts  of  water 


OF  THE  VEDAS,   HELD   BY   INDIAN  AUTHORS.  11 

tathd  |  vairupam  atiratr&m  cha  paschimdd  asrijad  mulchdt  \  elcavimsam 
atharvdnam  dptorydmdnam  eva  cha  \  Anushtulham  sa  vairdjam  uttardd 
asrijad  mukhdt  \  ,  , 

"  From*hiJs  eastern  mouth.  Brahma  formed  the  gayatra,  the  rich  verses, 
the  trivrit,  the  sa'ma-rathantara,  and  of  sacrifices,  the  agnishtoma. 
From  his  southern  mouth  he 'created  the  yajush  verses,  the  trishtubh. 
metre,  the  panclfadaSa-stoma,  the  vrihat-saman,  and  the  ukthya.  Prom 
his  western  mouth  he  'formed  the  sam'an  verses,  the  jagati  metre,  the 

»  J  ^ 

saptadasa-stoma,  the  vairupa,  and  the  atmJtr#.  From  his  northern 
mouth  he  framed  the  ekavinsa,  the  atharvan,  the  aptoryaman,  with  the 
anushtubh,  and  viraj  metres."  " 

In  like  manner  it  is  «aid  but  with  variations,  in  the  Bhagavata  Purana, 
iii.  12,  34,  and  37  if. : 

Kadtichid  dhydyatah  srashtur  veddh  dsam£  chaturmulchdt  \  katham 
sraksliyamy  aham  loJcdn  samavetdn  yathd  purd  |  .  .  .  .  Rig-yajuh-sdmd- 
tharvtikhytin  veddn  purvddibhir  mukhaiTi  \  sastram  y'ydm  stuti-stomam 
prdyaschittam  vyadhdt  kramdt  \ 

"Once  the  Yedas  sprang  from  the  four-faced  creator,  as  he  was  me- 
ditating '  how  shall  I  create  the  aggregate  worlds  as  before  ?'.... 
He  formed  from  his  eastern  and  other  mouths  the  Yedas  called  rich, 
yajush,  saman,  and  atharvan,  together  with  praise,  sacrifice,  hymns, 
and  expiation." 

And  in  verse  45  it  is  stated  that  the  ushnih  metre  issued  from  his 
hairs,  the  gayatrl  from  his  ^kin,  the  trishtubh  from  his  flesh,  the 
anushtubh  from  h,is  tendons,  the  jagati  from  his  bones  (Tasyoshnig  dsll 
\omebliyo  gdydtrl  cha  tvacho  vilhoh  \  trishtup ^mdmsdt  snuto  'nushtup 
jagaty  asthnah  Prajdpateh). 

Th£  Markandeya  Purana  says  on  the  same  subject,  102,  1 : 

Tasmdd  lind^dd  vibhinntit  tu  Brahmano  \yakta-janmanah  \  richo  lalhu- 
vah  fraihamam  prathamdd  vadandd  mune  \  2.  Javd-pushpa-nibhtih  sadyas 
tejo-rupdnta-samhatdh  \  pritliak  prithag  vilhinnds  cha  rajo-rupa-vahds 
tatah  |  $.  Yajumshi  dakshindd  vaktrdd  aniruddhdni  Mnchanam  \  yddrig- 
i-arnhm  tathd-varndny  asamhali-dhardni  cha  \  4.  Paschimam  yad  vilhor 
vaktram  BPahmanah  parameshthinah  \  dvirlhutdni  sdmdni  tatas  chhan- 
ddmsi  tdny  atha  \  5.  Atharvanam  asesham  cha  bhringdnjana-chaya-pral- 
ham  |  ghordghora-svarupam  tad  dlhichdrika-idntikam  \  6.  uttardt  pra~ 
11  See  Wilson's  Transl.  vol.  i.  p.  84. 


12  OPINIONS   REGARDING  THE  ORIGIN,   ETC., 

katlbhutam  vadandttasyavedhasah  \  sukha-sati;a-tamah-prdyam  saumyd- 
saumya-svarupavat  \  7.  Richo  rajo-gundh  sattvam  yajushdm  cha  guno 
mune  \  tamo-gundni  sdmdni  tamah-saftvam  atharvq-<su  \ 

1.  "From  the  eastern  mouth  of  Brahma,  who  sprang  *bj-  an  imper- 
ceptible birth  from  that  divided  egg  (Manu,  i.  9,  18),  there  suddenly 
issued  first  of  all  the  rich  verses,  (2)  resembling  China"  roses,  brilliant 
in  appearance,  internally  united,  though  separated  irom  each  other, 
and  characterized  by  the  quality  of  passion  '(rajas').  3.  From  his 
southern  mouth  came,,  tmrestrained,  the  yajush  verses  of  the  colour 
of  gold,  and  disunited.  4.  From  the  western  mouth  of  the  supreme 
Brahma  appeared  the  saman  verses  and  the  metres.  5  and  6.  From 
the  northern  mouth  of  Vedhas  (Brahma)  was  •  manifested  the  entire 
Atharvana  of  the  colour  of  black  bees  and  collyrium,  having  a  cha- 
racter at  once  terrible  and  not  terrible,12  capable  of  neutralizing  the 
arts  of  enchanters,  pleasant,  characterized  by  the  qualities  both  of 
purity  and  darkness,  and  both  beautiful  and  the  contrary.  7.  The 
verses  of  the  rich  are  distinguished  by  the  quality  of  passion  (rajas], 
those  of  the  yajush  by  purity  (sattva),  those  of  the  saman  by  darkness 
(tamas),  and  those  of  the  atharvan  by  both  darkness  and  purity." 

Harivamsa. — In  the  first  section  of  the  Harivamsa,  verse  47,  the 
creation  of  th'e  Vedas  by  Brahma  is  thus  briefly  alluded  to  : 

Richo  yajumsM  sdmdni  nirmame  yajna-siddhaye  \  sddhyds  tair  ayajan 
devdn  ity  evam  anususruma  \ 

"In  order  to  the  accomplishment  o£  sacrifice,  he  formed  the  rich, 
yajush,  and  saman  verses:  with  these  the  S'adhy^s  worshipped  the 
gods,  as  we  have  heard,." 

The  following  is  the  account  of  the  same  event  given  in  another  part 
of  the  same  work;  Harivam&a,  verse  11,516: 

Tato  'srijad  vai  tripaddm  gdyatrlm  veda-mdtaram  \  Akwoch  chaiva  cha- 
turo  veddn  gdyatri-samlhavdn  \  <. 

After  framing  the  world,  Brahma  "  next  created  the  gayatrl  of  three 
lines,  mother  of  the  Vedas, 'and  also  the  four  Yedas  f«vhich  sprang  from 

the  gayatrl."  13 

f 

12  Ghoraghora  is  the  correct  MS.  reading,  as  I  learn  from  Dr.  Hall,  and  not 
yavaddhora,  as  given  in  Professor  Banerjea's  printed  text. 

13  The  same  words  gayatrlm<  veda-mataram  also  occur  in  the  M.Bh.  Vanaparvan, 
verse  13,432  ;  and  the  same  title  is  applied  to  Yach  in  the  Taitt.  Br.  as  quoted  above, 
p   10. 


OF  THE  VEBAS,  HELD  BY  INDIAN  AUTHOES.      13 

A  little  further  on  we  -find  this  expanded  into  the  following  piece  of 
mysticism,  verse  ll,665ff. : 

Samdhita-mand  Brfihmd  moksha-'prdptena  hetund  \  chandra-mandala- 
•  samsthdndj  jyotis-tejo  mahat  tadd  \  Pravisya  hridayamkshipramgdyatrydh 
nayandntare  \  Garbhasya  sambhavo  yas  cha  chaturdhd  purmhdtmakah  \ 
Brafyna-iejomcfyo  \yaktok  stisbato  'tha  dhruvo  'vyayah  \  na  chendriya- 
gunair  yukto  yuldas  tejo-gnpena  cha  \  chandrdmsu-vimala-prakhyo  bhrd- 
jishnur  varna-samsthitah  \  Netrdbhydm  janayad  devah  rig-vedam  yajushd 
saJia  \  s&mavedam  cha  jihvdgrdd  atharvdnam  cha*mjirddhatah  \Jdta-mdtrds 
tu  te  veddh  kshelram  vindanti  tattvatah  \  Tena  vedatvam  dpannd  yasmdd 
vindanti  tat  padam  \  Te  srijanti  tadd  veddh  Irahma  purvam  sandtanam  \ 
Purusham  dtiya-riipabham  svaih  svair  Ihdvair  mano-lhavaih  \ 

"  For  the  emancipation  of  the  world,  Brahma,  sunk  in  contem- 
plation, issuing  in  a  luminous  form  from  the  region  of  the  moon, 
penetrated  into  the  heart  of  Gayatri,  entering  between  her  eyes. 
From  her  there  was  then  produced  a  quadruple  heing  in  the  form 
of  a  Male,  lustrous  as  Brahma,  undefined,  eternal,  undecaying,  de- 
void of  bodily  senses  or  qualities,  distinguished  by  the  attribute  of 
brilliancy,  pure  as  the  rays  of  the  moon,  radiant,  and  embodied  in 
letters.  The  god  fashioned  the  Eig-veda,  with  the  Tajush  from  his 
eyes,  the  Sama-veda  from  the  tip  of  his  tongue,  and  the  Atharvan 
from  his  head.  These  Yedas,  as  soon  as  they  are  born,  find  a  body 
(kshetra).  Hence  they  obtain  their  character  of  Yedas,  because  they 
find  (vindanti}  that  abode.  "Bhese  Vedas  then  create  the  pre-existent 
eternal  brahma  (<%acred  science),  a  Male  of  celestial  form,  with  their 
own  mind-born  qualities." 

I  extract  another  passage  on  the  same  subject  from  a  later  section  of 
the  same  work,  verses  12,425  ff.  "WhenHhe  Supreme  Being  was  intent 
on  creating  the  universe,  Hiranyagarbha,  or  Prajapati,  issued  from  his 
mouth,  and  was  desired  to  divide  famself, — a  process  which  he  was  in 
great  doubt  how  he  should  effect.  The  text  then  proceeds  : 

Itif'Nintayatast'Hsya  "o>»"  ity  evotthitah  *svarah>  \  salhumdv  antarllshe 
cha  nuke  cha  kritavdn  svanam  \  Tarn  chaivdlhyasatas  tasya  manah-sdra- 
mayam  vunah  \  hridaydd  deva-devasya  vashatkdrah  samutthitah  \  llmmy- 
antarlksha  -  ndkdndm  bhuyah  svardtmakah  paruh  \  mahdsmritimaydh 
puny uh  mahavydhritayo'bhavan  \  chhandasdih  pravard  devl  chaturvimsd- 
kshard  'bhavat  \  Tat-padam  samsmaran  divyam  stivitrlm  akarot  prabhuh  \ 


14  OPTIONS   EEGAEDING  THE   OBIGIN,   ETC., 

( 

rik-samatharva-yajushas  chaturo  lhagavan  pralhuh  \  chakdra  nikhildn 
veddn  brahma-yulctena  Jcarmana  \ 

"While  he  was  thus  reflecting,  the  oound  "  om"  issued  from  him, 
and  resounded  through  the  earth,  dir,,  and  igkyV  ^Vhilg  the  god  of 
gods  was  again  and  again  repeating  this,  the  essence  of  mind,  the 
vashatkara  proceeded  from  his  heart.  Next,  the  sacred  and  trr.nsten- 
dent  vyahritis,  (bhuh,  bhuvah,  svar),  formed  of  the  great  smriti,  iii  the 
form  of  sound,  were  produced  frqm  earth,  ai/,  and  sky..  Then  appeared 
the  goddess,  the  most  excellent  of  metres^  with  twenty-four  syllables 
[the  gayatri].  Reflecting  on  the  divine  text  [beginning  with]  "  tat," 
the  Lord  formed  the  savitri.  He  then  produced  all  the  Vedas,  the  Rich, 
Saman,  Atharvan,  and  Yajush,  with  their  prayers  and  rites."  (See  also 
the  passage  from  the  Bhag.  Pur.  xii.  6,  37  if, ,  which  will  be  quoted  in 
a  following  section.) 

Mahdlhurata. — The  Mahabharata  in  one  passage  speaks  of  Sarasvati 
and  the  Vedas  as  being  both  created  by  Achyuta  (Vishnu)  from  his 
mind  (Bhishma-parvan,  verse  3019  :  Sarasvatlm  cha  veddms  cha  manasah 
sasrije  ' chyutaK}.  In  another  place,  S'anti-parvan,  verse  12,920,  Saras- 
vati is  said,  in  conformity  with  the  texts  quoted  above,  pp.  10  and  12, 
from  the  Taittiriya  Brahmana,  the  Vana-parvan,  and  the  Harivamsa, 
to  be  the  mother  of  the  Vedas  : 

Feddndm  mataram  past/a  mat-sthdm  devlm  Sarasvatlm  \ 
"Behold  Sarasvati,  mother  of  the  Vedas,  abiding  in  me." 
Manu. — According  to  the  verses  in  Manu,  xii.  49,  50,  quoted  in  the 
First  Volume  of  this  work,  p.  41,  the  Vtdas,  with  foe  other  beings  and 
objects  named  along  with  them,  constitute  the  second  manifestation  of 
the  sattva  guna,  or  purb  principle ;  while  Brahma  is  placed  in  a  higher 
rank,  as  one  of  the  .first  manifestations  of  the  same  principle.    Thf  word 
Veda  in  this  passage  is  explained  by  Kulluka  of  those  ,"  embodied 
deities,  celebrated  in  the  Itihasas,  who  preside  over  the  Vedas  "  (  Veda- 
bhimtininyas  cha  devatdh  vigrahavatyah  itihasa-prasiddah}. 

SECT.  III. — Passages  'of  the  Bruhmanas  and  other  ifforJcs  in  wt-ich  the 
Vedas  are  spoken  of  as  being  the  sources  of  all  things,  and  as  infinite 
and  eternal. 

The  first  text  of  this  sort  which  I  shall  cite  Is  from  the  S'atapatha 
Brahmana,  x.  4,  2,  21 : 


OP  THE   VEDAS,    HELD    BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  15 

•  • 

Atha  sarvani  Ihutdni  'yaryaikshat  \  sa  trayydm  eva  vidydydm  sarvani 
Ihutdny  apasyat  \  attra  hi  sarveshdm  chhandasdm  dtmd  sarveshdm  stomd- 
ndm  sarveshdm  prdndndm  sarveshdm  devdndm  \  etad  vai  asti  \  etad  hy 
amritam  \  $<M  hy  \mritcfm  tad  hy  asti  \  etad  ^  tad  yad  martyam  \  22.  Sa 
aikshata  Prajdpdtih  "  trayydm  vdva  vidydydm  sarvdni  bhutdni  \  hanta 
traylm  eva  vidgdm  dtmayam  dibhisamslcaravai"  iti  \  23.  Sa  richo  vyau- 
hat  |  dvddasa  Irihatl-sahasriiny  etdvatyo  ha  richo  ydh  Prajdpati-srishtds 
ids  trimsattame  vyuhe  panldishv  atishthanta  \  tdh  yat  trimsattame  vyuhe 
itishthaftta  tasmdt  trimsad  mdsasya  rdtrayah  \,atha  yat  panktishu  tasmat 
pdnktah  Prajdpatih  \  tdh  ashtdsatam  satdni  panktayo  'bhavan  \ 

21.  "  Then  he  looked  around  upon  all  beings.  He  beheld  all  beings 
in  this  triple  Yedic  science.  For  in  it  is  the  soul  of  all  metres,  of  all 
hymns  of  praise,  of  all  breaths,  of  all  the  gods.  This/indeed,  exists.14 
It  is  an  undying  thing.  For  that  which  is  undying  (really)  exists. 
This  is  that  which  is  mortal.15  Prajapati  reflected,  'All  beings  are  com- 
prehended in  the  triple  Vedic  science  :  come  let  me  dispose  myself  in  the 
shape  of  the  triple  Vedic  science.16  He  arranged  the  yerses  of  the  llig- 
veda.  Twelve  thousand  Brihatis,  and  as  many  Rich-verses  which  were 
created  by  Prajapati,  stood  in  rows  in  the  thirtieth  class.  Since  they 
stood  in  the  thirtieth  class  there  are  thirty  nights  in  the  month.  Since 
they  stood  in  rows  (pankti]  Prajapati  is  called  Pankta.  •  They  formed 
eighteen  hundreds  of  rows." 

The  next  text,  from  the  Taittirlya  Brahmana,  iii.  12,  9,  1,  speaks  of 
the  three  Vedas  as  being  respectively  the  sources  of  form,  motion,  and 
heat,  or  brilliancy : 

Riglhyojdtdm  sarvaso  murttim  dhuh  sarvd  gatir  ydjushl  haiva  Sasvat  \ 
sarvam  tejah  sdma-rupyam  ha  sasvat  \ 

"  They  say  that  form  universally  proceeds  frofh  rich  yerses;  that 
motion  is  always  connected  with  the  yajush,  and  that  all  heat  has  the 
nature  of  the  saman."  ,, 

We  have  already  seen,  p.  6,  that  Manu  (i.  21)  speaks  of  the  names, 

» 

-  B  !» 

14>  "Always  exists"  (sarvada  vidyate). — Comm. 

15  On  this  the  commentator  remarks  :   Yach  cha  martyam  marana-dharmaJcam  ma- 
nushyadi  lad  apy  etat  trayl-bhutam  eva  \   ato  martlyamritatmakam  sarvam  jagad 
attrantarbhutam  \  "  And  that  which  is  mortal,  subject  to  death,  the  human  race,  etc., 
is  also  one  with  the  triple'Vedic  science.  Hence  the  latter  includes  all  Ifce  world  both 
mortal  and  immortal." 

16  I  owe  this  interpretation  of  this  clause  to  Prof.  Aufrecht. 


16  OPINIONS   REGARDING    THE   ORIGIN,   ETC., 

functions,  and  conditions  of  all  things  as  fashioned  from  the  words  of 
the  Veda.     It  is  similarly  said  in  the  Vishnu  Parana,  i.  5,  58  : 

Nama,  rupam  cha  bhutdndm  kritydtwih  cha  praverttanaih   \  Veda-sdb- 

*  ,-          0        » 

debJiya  evddau  devddlndm < chakdra  sah  \   risJilndm  ndmadhey-ani  yathd 

veda-srutdni  vai  \  yathd-niyoga-yogydni  sarvesham  api  so  'karot  \ 

11  In  the  beginning  he  created  from  the' words  ef  the  Veda  the  names, 
forms,  and  functions  of  the  gods  and  other*  beings'.  He  also  assigned 
the  names  of  all  the  rishis  as  indicated  in  the  Vedas,  and  as,  appro- 

l  t  i 

priate  to  their  respective^  effices." 

The  same  idea  is  repeated  in  the  Mahabharata,  S'antiparvan,  8533  : 

Rishayas  tapasd  veddn  adhyaishanta  divdnisam  \  An-ddi-nidhand 
vidyd  vdg  utsrishtd  SvayamWmvd  \  ddau  vedama$l  divyd  yatah  sarvdh 
pravrittayah  \  rishmdm  ndmadheydni  yds  cha  vedeshu  srislitayah  \  ndnd- 
rupam  cJia  bhutdndm  Jcarmandm  cha  pravarttayan  (pravarttanam?}  \ 
veda-sabdelhya  evddau  nirmimlte  sa  Isvarah  \ 

"  Through  austere-fervour  (tapas)  the  rishis  studied  the  Vedas,  both 
day  and  night.  In  the  beginning  knowledge  (vidydy  without  begin- 
ning or  end,  divine  speech,  formed  of  the  Vedas,  was  sent  forth  by 
Svayambhu  (=  Brahma,  the  self-existent) :  from  her  all  activities  are 
derived.  It  is  from  the  words  of  the  Veda  that  the  lord  in  the  begin- 
ning frames  the  names  of  the  rishis,  the  creations  which  (exist)  in  the 
Vedas,  the  various  forms  of  beings,  and  the  activity  manifested  in  works." 

The  Mangalacharana,  or  prayer  prefixed  to  their  commentaries  on 
the  Eik  Sanhita  and  Taittirlya  Sanhita,  V/  both  Say^na  and  Madhava, 
is  as  follows  :  , 

Yasya  nissvasitam  vedahyo  vedebhyo  'khilamjagat  \  nirmame  tarn  ahaih 
vande  vidyd-tlrtham  mahesvaram  \ 

"  I  reverence  Mahesvara  th6  hallowed  abode  of  sacred  knowledge,  of 
whom  the  Vedas  are  the  breathings,  and  who  from  the  Yedas  formed 
the  whole  universe."  ' 

The  following  passage  from  the  Taittirlya  Brahmana,  iii.  10,  11,  3, 
asserts  that  the  Vedas  are  infinite  in  extent :  «<•  n 

Hharadvdjo  ha  tribhir  dyurlhir  Irahmacharyyam  uvdsa  \  tarn  ha  jlr'nim 

f 

17  In  quoting  this  line  in  a  passage  of  his  Vedartha-prakas'a,  or^coramentary  on  the 
Taittiriya  Saif'iita,  which  I  shall,  adduce  further  on,  Madhava  Aclmryya  gives  the 
reading  nitya,  '  eternal,'  instead  of  vidya,  '  knowledge.'  It  is  possible  that  the  line 
may  be  taken  from  some  other  hook. 


OF    THE    VEDAS,    HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  17 

I 

sthavtram  saydnam  Indrah  upavrajya  uvdcha  \  "  Sharadvdja  yat  te  cJia- 
turtham  dyur  dadydm  kirn  etena  kuryydh"  iti  \  "  brahmacharyyam  eva 
enena  char ey am  "  iti  fyi  uvdcha  \  4*  Tarn  ha  trin  giri-rupdn  avijndtdn  iva 
,  darsaydnchaiidra  \  teshdm  ha  ekaikasmdd  mushtim  ddade  \  sa  ha  uvdcha 
"Sharadvdja"  ity  dmantrya  \  "veddhvai  ete  \  anantdh  vai  veddh  \  etad 
vai  etais  tribhif-  dyurbfcn  anvavocJiathdh  \  atha  te  itarad  ananuktam  eva  \ 
ehi  tmam  viddhi  j"  aytiih  vai^sarva-vidyti  "  iti  \  5.  Tasmai  ha  etam  agnim 
sdvitram  uvdcha  \  tam»sa  viditvd  amrito^  bhutvd  svargam  lokam  iydya 
ddityasya  sdyujyam  \  amrito  ha  eva  Ihutvd  svargam  lokam  ety  ddityasya 
sdyujyam  yah  ev&m  veda  \  eshd  u  eva  trayl  vidya  \  6.  Ydvantam  ha  vai 
trayyd  vidyayd  lokam  jayati  tdvantam  lokam  jay ati  yah  evam  veda  \ 

"Bharadvaja  lived  through,  three  lives18  in  the  state  of  a  religious 
student  (brahmacharyya).  'Indra  approached  him  when  he  was  lying 
old  and  decrepit,  and  said  to  him :  '  Bharadvaja,  if  I  give  thee  a  fourth 
life,  how  wilt  thou  employ  it  ? '  'I  will  lead  the  life  of  a  religious 
student,'  he  replied.  4.  He  (Tndra)  showed  him  three  mountain-like 
objects,  as  it  were  unknown.  From  each  of  them  he  took  a  handful : 
and,  calling  to  him,  'Bharadvaja,'  said,  'These  are  the  Yedas.  The 
Yedas  are  infinite.  This  is  what  thou  hast  studied  during  these  three 
lives.  Now  there  is  another  thing  which  thou  hast  not  studied,  come 
and  learn  it.  This  is  the  universal  science.'  5.  He  declared  to  hjrn 
this  Agni  Savitra.  Having  known  it  he  (Bharadvaja)  became  immortal, 
and  ascended  to  the  heavenly  world,  to  union  with  the  sun.  He  who 
knows  this  ascends  to  heavei\  to  union  with  the  sun.  This  is  the 
triple  Vedic  science.  He  who  knows  this  conquers  a  world  as  great  as 
h'e  would  gain  by  the  triple  Vedic  science."  , 

Another  text  from  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita,  vii.  3,  1,  4,  puts  the 
matter  'somewhat  differently : 

Atha  branma.  (jbrahma-vddino  ?)  vadanti  parimitdh  vai  richah  parimi- 
tdni  sumdni  parimitdni  yajumshi  athn  tasya  eva  anto  ndsti  yad  brahma  \ 

"The  expounders  of  sacred  science  say,  'Rich  verses  are  limited, 
saman  verses  are  Iknited,  yajush  verses  are  limited;  but  there  is  no 
end  of  sacred  knowledge." 

Vishnu  Parana. — At  the  end  of  Section  6  of  the  third  book  of  the 


18  This  does  not  appear  to  mean,  three  lives  in  three  different  births,  but  a  life  of 
thrice  the  usual  length,  or  already  twice  renewed.  , 


18  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC. 

i 

Vishnu  Purana  we  have  the  following  assertion  of  the  eternity  of  the 
Veda: 

Iti  sdkhdh  prasankhydtdh  sdkhd-bhedas  tathaiva  cha  \  karttdras  chaiva 
sdkhdndm  Wwda-hetus  tatJyditah  \  sarvd-manvahtaresM?  evai&djthd-bheddh 
samdh  smritdh  \  Prdjdpatyd  srutir  nityd  tad-vikalpds  tv  ime  dvija  \  • 

"  Thus  the  S'akhas,  their  divisions,  tlieir  authors,  ard  the  fcaus"e  of 
the  division  have  been  declared.  In  all  the  manrantaras  the  divisions 
of  the  S'akhas  are  recorded  to  be  the  same.  The  sriiti  (Veda)  derived 
from  Prajapati  (Brahma)-,is  eternal  :  these,1  o  Brahman,  are  onlyits  mo- 
difications." 

In  another  passage  of  the  same  book,  Vishnu  is  identified  with  the 
Vedas:  Vishnu  Purana,  iii.  3,  19ff.  :  r 

Sa  rin-mayah  sa  sdmamayah  sa  cJidtmd  '  sa  yajurmayah  \  rig-yajuh- 
sdma-sdrdtmd  sa  evdtmd  sarlrindm  \  sa  Ihidyate  vedamayah  sa  vedam 
karoti  bhedair  bahubhih  sasdkham  \  sdkJid-pranetd  sa  samasta-sdkhdh 
jndna-svarupo  bhagavdn  anantah  \ 

"  He  is  composed  of  the  Eich,  of  the  Saman,  of  the  Yajush  ;  he  is  the 
soul.  Consisting  of  the  essence  of  the  Rich,  Yajush,  and  Saman,  he  is 
the  soul  of  embodied  spirits.  Formed  of  the  Veda,  he  is  divided  ;  he 
forms  the  Veda  and  its  branches  (sdkhds]  into  many  divisions.  Framer 
of  the  S'akhUs,  he  is  also  their  entirety,  the  infinite  lord,  whose  essence 
is  knowledge." 


SECT.  IV.  —  Passages  from  the  S'atapatJia  Brdhmana  and  Manu,  eulogistic 
of  the  Veda,  with(some  statements  of  a  different  tenor  from  Manu  and 
other  writers. 

r  i 

The  following  panegyric  on  Vedic  study  is  taken  from  the  S'atapatha 
Brahmana,  xi.  5,  6,  1  :  ,  , 

Pancha  eva  mahdyajndh  \  tdny  eva  mahdsattrdni  Ihuta-yajno  manu- 
shya-yajnah  pitri-ycjno  deva-yajno  lrah,ma-yajnahtiti  \  2.  Ahar  ahar 
bhutebhyo  balim  haret  \  tathd  etam  bhuta-yajnam  samdpnoti  \  ahcr  ahar 
dadydd  d  uda-pdtrdt  tathd  etam  manushya-yajnaih  samdpno'i  \  ahar  ahah 
svadhdkurydd  d  uda-pdtrdt  tathd  etam  pitri-yajnam  samdpnoti  \  ahar  ahah 

(}  c 

svdhdkurydd  d  kdshthdt'  tathd  etam  deva-yajnam  samdpnoti  \    3.  Atha 
brahma-yajnah  \  svddhydyo  vai  brahma-yajnah  \  tasya  vai  etasya  brahma- 


OF    THE    VEDAS,   HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  19 

yajnasya  vug  eva  juhur  mhnah  upalhrich  chakshur  dhruvd  medhd  sruvah 
satyam  avabhrithah  svargo  lokah  udayanam  \  ydvantam  ha  vai  imam  pri- 
thivlm  vittena  purndfy  dadaih  lokayi  Jayati  tris  tdvantam  jayati  bhuydm- 
sam  cha  ofcshayyam  yad  evam  vidvdn  ahar  *ahah  svddhydyam  adhite  \ 
tasmdt  svddhydyo  'dhetavyah  \  4.  Paya-dhutayo  ha  vai  etdh  devdndm  yad 
richah  ]  sa  ycfh  evam  vidvdn1  richo  'har  ahah  svddhydyam  adhite  paya- 
dhutibhir  eva  tad"  detains  tarpayati  \  te  enam  triptds  tarpayanti  yoga- 
kshemenq  prdnena  retasA  sarvdtmand  sarvdbhih  punydbhih  sampadbhih  \ 
ghritaJwlydh  madhu-kulydh  pitrln  svadhd  abMuahanti  \  5.  Ajydhutay» 
ha  vai  etdh  devdndm  yad  yajumshi  \  sa  yah  evam  vidvdn  yajumshy  ahar 
ahah  svddhydyam  adhite  djydhutibhir  eva  tad  devdms  tarpayati  te  enam 
triptds  tarpayanti  yogn-kshemena  ityddi  \  6.  Somdhutayo  ha  vai  etdh 
devdndm  yat  sdmdni  \  sa  yah  evam  vidvdn  sdmdny  ahar  ahah  svddhydyam 
adhite  somdhutibhir  eva  tad  devdms  tarpayati  ityddi  \  7.  Meda-dhutayo 
ha  vai  etdh  devdndm  yad  atharvdngirasah  \  sa  yah  evam  vidvdn  atharvdn- 
giraso  'har  ahah  svddhydyam  adhite  meda-dhutibhir  eva  tad  devdms  tar- 
payati ityddi  |  8.  Madhv-dhutayo  ha  vai  etdh  devdndm  yad  anusdsandni 
vidyd  vdkovdkyam  itihdsa-purdnam  gdthdh  ndrdsamsyah  \  sa  yah  evam  vid- 
vdn ityddi  |  9.  Tasya  vai  etasya  brahma-yajnasya  chatvdro  vazhatkdrdh 
yad  vdto  vdti  yad  vidyotate  yat  stanayati  yad  avasphurjati  \  tasmdd  evam 
vidvdn  vdte  vdti  vidyotamdne  stanayaty  avasphurjaty  adhlylta  eva  vashgt- 
kdrdndm  achhambatkdrdya  \  ati  ha  vai  punar  mrityum  muchyate  gachhati 
Jirahmanah  sdtmatdm  \  sa  died  api prabalam  iva  na  saknuydd  apy  ekam 
deva-padam  adhlylta  eva  tathd  tyutebhyo  na  hlyate  \  xi.  5,  7,  1 :  Atha 
atah  svddhydya-pra^amsd  \  priye  svddhydya-pravachane  bhavatah  \  yukta- 
m'andh  bhavaty  aparddhlno  'har  ahar  arthdn  sddkayate  sukham  svapiti 
parama-chikitsakah  dtmano  bhavati  \  indriya-samyamas  cha  ekdrdmatd 
cha  prajnd-vriddhir  yaso  loka-paktih  \  prajnd  varddhamdnd  chaturo  dhar- 
mdn  brtihmanai®  abhinishpddayati  brdhmanyam  pratirupa-charyydm  yaso 
loka-pjJdim  \  lokah  pachyamdnas  chaturbhir  dharmair  brdhmanam  bhun- 
akty  archayd  cha  ddnena  cha  a^yeyatayd  cha  abadhyatayd  cha  \  2.  Ye  ha  vai 
ke  cha  srayidh  ime  dydvd-prithivl  antarena  svddhydyo  ha  eva  teshdm  para- 
matd  "kdshthd  yah  evam  vidvdn  svddhydyam  adhite  \  tasmdt  svddhydyo 
'dhetavyah  \  ^3.  Yad  yad  ha  vai  ayam  chhandasah  svddhydyam  adhite  tena 
tena  ha  eva  asya  yajna-kratund  ishtarn  bhavati  yah  evam  vidvdn^svddhyd- 
yam  adhite  \  tasmdt  svddhydyo  'dhetavyah  \  4*.  Yadi  ha  vai  apy  abhyak- 
tah  alankritah  suhitah  sukhe  sayane  saydnah  sjddhydyam  adhite  d  ha 


20  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,  ETC., 

i 

eva  sa  nalchdgrebhyas  tapyate  yah  evam  vidvdn  svddhydyam  adhlte  \  tas- 
mdt  svddhydyo  'dhetavyah  \  5.  Madhu  ha  vai  richo  ghritarn  ha  sdmdny 
amritam  yajumshi  \  yad  ha  vai  aya>"n  vdltovdkyam  adhlte  hshlraudana- 
mdmsaudanau  ha  eva  tau  *\  6.  Madhund  ha  vai  esha  devdihs^ta^payati  yah 
evam  vidvdn  richo  'har  ahah  svddhydyam  adhlte  \  te  enam  triptds  tarp'a- 
yanti  sarvaih  kdmaih  sarvair  Ihogaih  \  V.  Ghritena  ha* vai  esha  devdms 
tarpayati  yah  evam  vidvdn  sdmdny  ahar  aj>,ah  svddKydyam  adhlte  \  te 
enam  triptdh  ityddi  \  8.  Anritena  ha  vai  esha  devdms  tarpqyati  yah 
evam  vidvdn  yajumshy'  ahar  ahah  svddhydyam  adhlte  \  te  enarr.  triptdh 
ityddi  \  9.  Kshlraudana-mdmsaudandbhydm  ha  vai  esha  devdms  tarpa- 
yati yah  evam  vidvdn  vdlcovdkyam  itihdsa-purdnam  ity  ahar  ahah  svd- 
dhydyam adhlte  |  te  enam  triptdh  ityddi  \  1C.  Yanti  vai  dpah  \  ety 
ddityah  \  eti  chandramdh  \  yanti  nakshattrdni  \  yathd  ha  vai  na  iyur  na 
kuryur  evam  ha  eva  tad  ahar  brdhmano  lhavati  yad  ahah  svddhydyam  na 
adhlte  |  tasmdt  svddhydyo  'dhetavyah  \  tasmdd  apy  richam  vd  yajur  vd 
sdma  vd  gdthdm  vd  Icumvydm  vd  alhivydhared  vratasya  avyavachheddya  \ 
11  There  are  only  five  great  sacrifices,  which  are  the  great  ceremonies, 
viz.,  the  offering  to  living  creatures,19  the  offering  to  men,  the  offering 
to  the  fathers,  the  offering  to  the  gods,  and  the  Veda-offering  (brahma- 
yajna).  2.  Let  an  oblation  be  daily  presented  to  living  creatures.  Thus 
the  offering  to  them  is  fulfilled.  Let  (hospitality)  be  daily  bestowed  even 
down  to  the  bowl  of  water.  Thus  is  the  offering  to  men  fulfilled.  Let 
the  oblation  to  the  fathers  be  daily  presented,20  down  to  the  bowl  of  water 
with  the  svadha  formula.  Thus  is  th/,  offering  to  the  fathers  fulfilled. 
Let  the  oblation  to  the  gods  be  daily  presented  as,  far  as  the  faggot  of 
wood.  Thus  is  the  offering  to  the  gods  fulfilled.  3.  Next  is  the  Veda- 
offering.  This  nieans  private  study21  (of  the  sacred  books).  In  this 
Veda-sacrifice  speech  is  the  juhu,  the  soul  the  upabhrit,  the  eye  the 
dhruva,  intelligence  the  sruva,"  truth  the  ablution,  and  paradise 

19  This  sacrifice,  as  I  learn  from  Prof.  Aufrecht,  consists  in  scattering  grain  for  the 
benefit  of  birds,  etc.     See  Bobtlingk  and  Roth's  I  exicon,  s.v.  bali.     In  regard  to  the 
other  sacrifices  see  CoMirooke's  Misc.  Essays,  i.  pp.  150,  15'?,  182  fF.,  203  ff. 

20  In  explanation  of  this  Professor  Aufrecht  refers  to  Katyayana's  S'rautg  Sutras, 
iv.  1,  10,  and  Manu,  iii.  210,  214,  218. 

21  Svadhyayah  sva-sakhadhyanam  \  "  Reading  of  the  Veda  in  one's  own  s'akha." — 
Comm.   , 

21  These  words  denote  saciificial  spoons  or  ladles  of  different  kinds  of  wood.  See 
the  drawings  of  them  in  Prof.  Miiller's  article  on  the  funeral  rites  of  the  Brahmans, 
Journ.  of  the  Germ.  Or.  Sec.  vol.  ix.  pp.  Ixxviii.  and  Ixxx. 


,  OF    THE    VED'AS,    HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  21 

the  conclusion.  He  who,  knowing  this,  daily  studies  the  Veda, 
conquers  an  undecaying  world  more  than  thrice  as  great  as  that 
which  he  acquires^  wio  bestows,  tibis  whole  earth  filled  with  riches. 
'Wherefore  'the  Veda  should  be  studied.  4*  Verses  of  the  Big-veda 

are  milk- oblations  to  the  gods.     He  who,  knowing  this,  daily  reads 

t  • 

these •  verses,  satisfies  th£  gods  with  milk-oblations;  and  they  being 

satisfied,  satisfy  thim  wit1!  property,  with  breath,  with  generative 
power,  \rith  complete  6odily  soundness,  iwith  all  excellent  blessings. 
Streams 'of  butter,  streams  of  honey  flow  as  sVadha-oblations  to  the* 
fathers.  5.  Yajush-verses  are  offerings  of  butter  to  the  gods.  He  who, 
knowing  this,  daily  reads  these  verses,  satisfies  the  gods  with  offerings 
of  butter ;  and  they, '  being  satisfied,  satisfy  him,  etc.  (as  in  the 
preceding  paragraph).  6.  Saman-verses  are  soina-libations  to  the  gods. 
He  who,  knowing  this,  daily  reads  these  verses,  satisfies  the  gods  with 
soma-libations ;  and  they  being  satisfied,  satisfy  him,  etc.  (as  above). 

7.  Verses  of   Atharvan  and  Angiras  (atharvangirasah™}  are  oblations 
of  fat  to  the  gods.     He  who,  knowing  this,  daily  reads  these  verses, 
satisfies  the  gods  with   oblations  of  fat;    and  they  etc.  (as  above). 

8.  Prescriptive   and   scientific  treatises,    dialogues,    traditions,    tales, 
verses,  and  eulogistic  texts  are  oblations  of  honey  to  the  gods.     He 
who,  knowing  this,  daily  reads  these,  satisfies  the  gods  with  oblations 
of  honey ;  and  they  etc.  (as  above).     9.  Of  this  Veda-sacrifice  there 
are  four  Vashatkaras,  when  the  wind  blows,  when  it  lightens,  when  it 
thunders,  when  it  crashes ;  wheifefore  when  it  blows,  lightens,  thunders, 
or,  crashes,  let  the  man,  who  knows  this,  read,  in  order  that  these  Va- 
shatkaras may  not  be  interrupted.24     He  who  "does  so  is  freed  from 
dying  a  second  time,  and  attains  to  an  union  with  Ityahma.     Even  if 
he  cannot  read  vigorously,  let  him  read  one  text  relating  to  the  gods. 
Thus  he  is  not  deprived  of  his  living  creatures." 

xi.  5,  7,  1 :  "  N'ow  comes  an  enco*mium  upon  Vedic  study.  Study 
and  teaching  are  loved.  He  (who  practise^  them)  becomes  composed 
in  mind."»  Independent  of  others,  he  daily  attains  his  objects,  sleeps 
pleasantly,  becomes  his  own  best  physician.  Control  of  his  senses,  con- 
centration of  mind,  increase  of  intelligence,  renown,  capacity  to  educate 
mankind  [are  the  result&of  study].  Increasing  intelligence  secures  for 

23  The  Atharva  Sanhita  is  so  called. 

21  See  Bothlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon,  «<••  chhambat. 


22  OPINIONS    EEGARDING    THE    ORiGIN,    ETC.,  , 

the  Brahman  the  four  attributes  of  saintliness,  suitable  conduct,  renown, 
and  capacity  for  educating  mankind.  ~Whe,n  so  educated,  men  guarantee  to 
the  Brahman  the  enjoyment  of  the  four, prerogatives  which  are  his  due, 
reverence,  the  receipt  of  gifts,  freedom  from  oppression,  and  from  death  ' 
by  violence.    2.  Of  all  the  modes  of  exertion,  which  are  known  betw.een 
heaven  and  earth,  study  of  the  Yeda  occupies  fhfe  highest  rank,  (iv  the 
case  of  him)  who,  knowing  this,  studies  it.    therefore  this  study  is  to 
be  practised.      3.  On  every  occasion  when  a  man  studies  the  Yedic 
kymns  he  (in  fact)  performs  a  complete  ceremonial  of  sacrifice,  i.e. 
whosoever,  knowing  this,  so  studies.    "Wherefore  this  "study,  etc.,  etc. 
4.  And  even  when  a  man,  perfumed  with  unguents,    adorned  with 
jewels,  satiated  with  food,  and  reposing  on  a  comfortable  couch,  studies 
the  Veda  he  (has  all  the  merit  of  one  who)  performs  penance  (felt)  to 
the  very  tips  of  his  nails : 23  (such  is  the  case  with  him)  who,  knowing 
this,    studies.     "Wherefore  etc.     5.  Rig-veda -verses  are  honey,  Sama- 
verses  butter,  yajus-verses  nectar  (amrita).     "When  a  man  reads  dia- 
logues (yakovakya}  [and  legends],  these  two  sorts  of  composition  are 
respectively  oblations  of  cooked  milk  and  cooked  flesh.     6.  He  who, 
knowing  this,    daily  reads  Eig-veda-verses,    satisfies  the   gods   with 
honey  ;  and  they,  when  satisfied,  satisfy  him  with  all  objects  of  desire? 
and  with  all  enjoyments.     7.  He  who,  knowing  this,  daily  reads  Sama- 
verses,  satisfies  the  gods  with  butter ;  and  they,  when  satisfied,  etc.  (as 
before).     8.  He  who,  knowing  this,  daily  reads  Yajus-verses,  satisfies 
the  gods  with,  nectar ;  and  they,  etc.  (ds  before).    ,9.  He  who,  knowing 
this,  daily  studies  dialogues  and  the  different  classec-  of  ancient  stories, 
satisfies  the  gods  with  milk-  and  flesh-oblations ;    and  they,  etc.  (as 
before).     10.  The  waters  move.     The  sun  moves.     The  moon  moves. 
The  constellations  move.     The  Brahman  who  on  any  day  does  not  study 
the  Yeda,  is  on  that  day  like  what  these  moving  bodies  would  be  if  the 
ceased  to  move  or  act.     "Wherefore  such  study  is  to  be  practised'.     Let 

f  ° 

25  This  sentence  is  differently  rendered  by  Professor  "WebCr,  Ind.  Stud,  x.  p.  112, 
as  follows:  "He  burns  (with  sacred  fire)  to  the  Tery  tips  of  his  naik."  In 
a  later  page  of  the  same  Essay  we  are  told  that  according  to  th/>  doctrine  of  a 
teacher  called  Naka  Maudgalya  as  stated  in  the  Taittiriya  Aranyaka,  the  study  and 
teaching  o£  the  Veda  are  the  real  tapas  (svadhyaya-pravachane  eva  tad  hi  tapah].  In 
the  text  of  the  Aranyaka  itself,  vii.  8,  it  is  declared  that  study  and  teaching  should 
always  accompany  such  spiritual  or  ritual  acts  as  ritam,  satyam,  lapas,  dama,  sama, 
the  agnihotra  sacrifice,  etc.  <-See  Indische  Studien,  ii.  214,  and  x.  113. 


t 

OF    THE    VEDAS,  HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  23 

• 

a  man  therefore  present  tJs  his  offering  a  verse  of  the  Rig-veda,  or  the 
Saman,  or  the  Yajush,  or  a  Gatha,  or  a  Kuril  vya,  in  order  that  the 
course  of  his  observances  may  no^  be  interrupted." 

i  Manu  e'sap'loys  the  foftowing  honorific  expressions  in  reference  to  the 
Vedas  (xii.  94  ff.) : 

Pitn-deva-ntanushydjivm  veSas  chakshuh  sandtanam  \  asakyam  chdpra- 
meyam  cha  veda'sdstram  iti  sthitih  \  Yd  veda-vdhydh  smritayo  yds  cha 
Mscha  kudrishtayah  \  »6  sarvds  td  ni&hphaldh  pretya  tamo-nishthdh  hi 
tdh  smtiitah  \  TTtpadyante  chyavante  cha  ydny  &fy  'nydni  Icdnichit  \  Tdny 
arvdk-kdlikataya z7  nishphaldny  anritdni  cha  \  Chdturvarnyam  trayo  lokui 
chatvdras  chdiramdh  prithak  \  Bhutam  lhavad  lhavishyam  cha  sarvam 
veddt  prasiddhyati  \  tsabdah  sparsas  cha  rupam  cha  raso  gandhas  cha 
panchamah  \  veddd  eva  prasiddhyanii  prasuti-guna-Jcarmatah  \  Bibhartti*8 
sarva-lhutdni  veda-$astram  sandtanam  \  Tasmdd  etat  param  manye  yaj 

'  jantor  asya  sddhanam  \  Saindpatyaih  cha  rdjyaih  cha  danda-netritvam 
eva  cha  \  sarva-lolcddhipatyam  cha  veda-sdstra-vid  arhati  \  Yathd  jdta- 
lalo  vahnir  dahaty  drdrdn  api  drumdn  \  tathd  dahati  veda-jnah  karma- 
jam  dosham  dtmanah  \  veda-sdstrdrtha-tattva-jno  yatra  tatrdsrame  vasan  \ 
ihaiva  loke  tishthan  sa  Irahmabhuydya  kalpate  \ 

lt  The  Veda  is  the  eternal  eye  of  the  fathers,  of  gods,  and  of  men ; 
it  is  beyond  human  power  and  comprehension ;  this  is'a  certain  con- 
clusion. Whatever  traditions  ar'e  apart  from  the  Veda,  and  all  heretical 
views,  are  fruitless  in  the  next  world,  for  they  are  declared  to  be 
founded  on  darkness.  All  o^ier  [books]  external  to  the  Veda,  which 
arise  and  pass  aw^y,  are  worthless  and  false  from  their  recentness  of 
date.  The  system  of  the  four  castes,  the  three  worlds,  the  four  states 
of  life,  all  that  -has  been,  now  is,  or  shall  be,  is  made  manifest  by  the 

26  Drishtartha-vakyani"  chaitya-vandanat  svargo  bhavati  "  ity  admi  yani  cha  asat- 
tarha-mulani  devata-purvadi-niralcaranatmakani  veda-viruddhani  charvaka-darsa- 
nani\  "That  is,  deductions  from  experience  of  the  visible  world;  such  doctrines  as 
that  '  heaven  is  attained  by  obeisance  to  a  chaitya,'  and  similar  Chiirvaka  tenets 
founded  on  false  reasonings,  contradicting  the  existence  of  the  gods,  and  the  efficacy 
of  religious  rites,  and»contrary  to  the  Vedas." — Kulluka.  » 

27  > Idariintanatvat  \  "From  their  modernness." — Kulluka. 

28  "  Havi\  agnau  huyate  \  so  'gnir  adityam  ttpasarpati  \  tat  suryo  raimibhir  var- 
shati  \  tenannam  bhavati  \  at  ha  iha  bhutanam  utpatti-sthitti  cheti  havir  jay  ate  "  iti 
brahmanam  \  "  '  The  oblation  is  cast  into  the  fire  ;  fire  reaches  the  sun ;  the  sun  causes 
rain  by  his  rays  ;  thence  food  is  produced;  thus  thetoblation  becomes  tl&  cause  of  the 
generation  and  maintenance  of  creatures  on  this  earth ; '  so  says  a  Brahmana." — 
Kulluka. 


24  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,    ETC., 

i 

Yeda.  The  objects  of  touch  and  taste,  sound/ form,  and  odour,  as  the 
fifth,  are  made  known  by  the  Veda,  together  with  their  products,  qua- 
lities, and  the  character  of  their  action,.  The  eternal  Veda  supports  all 
beings  :  hence  I  regard  it  as  the  principal  insti-umenl  of  weU-being  to 
this  creature,  man.  Command  of  armies,  royal  authority,  the  adminis- 
tration of  criminal  justice,  and  the  sovereignty  «f  all  wbrlds,  he  ajone 
deserves  who  knows  the  Veda.  As  fire,  when  it  'has*  acquired  force, 
burns  up  even  green  trees,  so  hfe  who  knows  the  Veda  consumes  the 

'*  <"  i 

taint  of  his  soul  which  has  been  contracted  from  works.  He  who 
comprehends  the  essential  meaning  of  the  Veda,  in  whatever  order  of 
life  he  may  be,  is  prepared  for  absorption  into  Brahma,  even  while 
abiding  in  this  lower  world." 

The  following  are  some  further  miscellaneous  passages  of  the  same 
tenor,  scattered  throughout  the  Institutes  (Manu,  ii.  lOff.)  : 

S'rutis  tu  vedo  vijneyo  dharma-sdstram  tu  vai  smritih  \  te  sarvdrtheshv 
amlmdmsye  tdbJiydm  dharmo  hi  nirlabhau  \  11.  Yo  'vamanyeta  te  mule 
hetu-sdstrdiraydd  dvijah  \  sa  sddhubhir  vahishlcdryyo  ndstilco  veda-ninda- 
kah  ]  .  .  .  .  13.  Dharmam  jijndsamdndndm  pramdnam  paramam  srutih  \ 

"  By  sruti  is  meant  the  Veda,  and  by  smriti  the  institutes  of  law  : 
the  contents  of  these  are  not  to  be  questioned  by  reason,  since  from 
them  [a  knowledge  of]  duty  has  shone  forth.  The  Brahman  who, 
relying  on  rationalistic  treatises,29  shall  contemn  these  two  primary 
sources  of  knowledge,  must  be  excommunicated  by  the  virtuous  as  a 

sceptic  and  reviler  of  the  Vedas 1/5.  To  those  who  are  seeking  a 

knowledge  of  duty,  the  sruti  is  the  supreme  authority,-" 

In  the  following  passage,  the  necessity  of  a  knowledge  of  Brahma  is 
asserted,  though  the  practice  of  ritual  observances  is  also  inculcated 
(vi.  82  ff.) : 

Dhydnikam  sarvam  evaitad  yad  etad  alhisalditam  \  na  hy.  anadhydtma- 
rit  Icaschit  kriyd-phalam  updsnute  \<.adhiyajnam  trahma  japed  ddkidai- 
vikam  eva  cJia  \  ddhyatmikam  cha  satatam  veddntdlhihitam  cha  yat  \  Idam 
saranam  ajndndm  idam  eva  vyanatdm  \  idam  anmchcWitjtdm  svargqm  idam 

dnantyam  ichchhatdm  \ 

t 

19  This,  however,  must  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the  precept  in  xii.  106,  which 
declares :  arshaih  dharmopadtsam  cha  veda-sastravirodhinq  \  yas  tarkenanusandhaite 
sa  dharmam  veda  naparah  \  "  H(J,  and  he  only  is  acquainted  with  duty,  who  investi- 
gates the  inj  unctions  of  the  rishis,  and  the  precepts  of  the  smriti,  by  reasonings  which 
do  not  contradict  the  Veda."  " 


OF    THE    VEDAS,   HELD    BY  INDIAN    AUTHORS.  25 

"  All  this  which  has  been  now  declared  is  dependant  on  devout  me- 
ditation :  no  one  who  is  .ignorant  of  the  supreme  Spirit  can  reap  the 
fruit  of  ceremonial  acts.  Let  a  man  repeat  texts  relating  to  sacrifice, 
1  texts  relating*  to  deities,  {exts  relating  to  the  Supreme  Spirit,  and  what- 
ever is  declared  in  the  concluding  portions  of  the  Veda  (the  Upanishads). 

'  \>  * 

This  £Veda]  is  the  reftige  of  the  ignorant,  as  well  as  of  the  under- 
standing ;  it  is  £he  refuge  of  those  who  are  seeking  after  paradise,  as 
well  as(of  those  who  ar»}  desiring  infinity," 

The  following  text  breathes  a  moral  spirit,  6y=  representing  purity  o5 
life  as  essential  to  the  reception  of  benefit  from  religious  observances 
(ii.  97): 

Fredas  tydgai  cha  y'ajnds  cha  niyamds  cha  tapdmsi  cha  \  na  vipra- 
dushta-lhdvasya  siddhim  gachhanti  karchichit  \ 

r"The  Yedas,  almsgiving,  sacrifices,  observances,  austerities,  are  in- 
effectual to  a  man  of  depraved  disposition." 

The  doctrine  which  may  be  drawn  from  the  following  lines  does  not 
seem  so  favourable  to  morality  (xi.  261  ff.) : 

Hatvd  lokdn  apimdms  trin  asnann  api  yatastatah  \  Rigvedam  dhdrayan 
vipro  nainah  prdpnoti  kinchana  \  Riksamhitdm  trir  alhyasya  yajushdm 
va  samdhitah  \  sdmndm  vd  sa-rahasydndm  sarva-ptipaih  pramucJiyate  | 
yathd  mahd-hradam  prdpya  kshiptam  loshtam  vinasyati  \  tathd  duscha- 
ritam  sarvam  vede  trwriti  majjati  \ 

"A  Brahman  who  should  destroy  these  three  worlds,  and  eat  food 
received  from  any  quarter  whatever,  would  incur  no  guilt  if  he  retained 
in  his  memory  theiRig-veda.  Repeating  thrice  with  intent  mind  the 
Sanhita  of  the  Eik,  or  the  Yajush,  or  the  Samao,  with  the  Upanishads, 
he  is  freed  from  all  his  sins.  Just  as  a  clod  thrown  ipto  a  great  lake  is 
dissolved  when  it  touches  the  water,  so  does  all  sin  sink  in  the  triple 
Veda." 

Considering  the  sacredness  ascribed  in  the  preceding  passages  to  all 
the  Vedas,  the  characteristics  assigned  to  three  of  them  in  the  passage 
quoted  rbove  (p.  Il5)  from  the  Harkandeya  Pufana,  as  well  as  the 
epithet  applied  to  the  Sama-veda  in  the  second  of  the  following  verses 
are  certainly  remarkable  ;  (Manu,  iv.  123ff.)  : 

Sdma-dhvandv  rig-yajyslil  nddhlylta  kaddchana  \  vedasyddhi^ya  vd  'py 
antam  dranyakam  adhltya  cha  \  Rigvedo  deva-daivatyo  yajurvedas  tu 
mdmishah  \  Sdmavedah  smritah  pitryas  tasmdt  -tasydsuchir  dhvanih  \ 


26  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

"  Let  no  one  read  the  Rich  or  the  Tajush  while  the  Saman  is  sounding 
in  his  ears,  or  after  he  has  read  the  conclusion  of  the  Yeda  (i.e.  the 
TJpanishads)  or  an  Aranyaka.     The  Rig-veda  fcas  the   gods  for  its 
deities;  the  Yajur-veda  Ifes  men  for  its  objects;    the  Sama-veda  has  • 
the  pitris  for  its  divinities,  wherefore  its  sound  is  impure." 

The  scholiast  Kulluka,  however,  will  not  allow  that  the  sound  qf  the 
Sama-veda  can  be  really  "impure."  "If-  has,*'  he  says,  "only  a 
semblance  of  impurity  "  (tasn\dt  tasya  asuchir  voa  dhvanih  \  na  tv  asu- 
chir eva].  In  this  remark  he  evinces  the  tendency,  incident  to«o  many 
systematic  theologians,  to  ignore  all  those  features  of  the  sacred  text  on 
which  they  are  commenting  which  are  at  variance  with  their  theories 
regarding  its  absolute  perfection.  As  it  was  t'he  opinion  of  his  age 
that  the  Veda  was  eternal  and  divine,  it  was,  he  considered,  impossible 
that  impurity  or  any  species  of  defect  could  be  predicated  of  any  of  its 
parts;  and  every  expression,  even  of  the  highest  authorities,  which 
contradicted  this  opinion,  had  to  be  explained  away.  I  am  not  in  a 
position  to  state  how  this  notion  of  impurity  came  to  be  attached  to  the 
Sama-veda.  The  passage  perhaps  proceeded  from  the  adherents  of 
some  particular  Vedic  school  adverse  to  the  Sama-veda;  but  its  sub- 
stance being  found  recorded  in  some  earlier  work,  it  was  deemed  of 
sufficient  authority  to  find  a  place  in  the  miscellaneous  collection  ot 
precepts, — gathered  no  doubt  from  different  quarters,  and  perhaps  not 
always  strictly  consistent  with  each  other,  —  which  make  up  the 
Hanava-dharma-sastra.  f> 

Vishnu  Purdna. — The  following  passage  from  thefYishnu  Purana,  at 
the  close,  ascribes  the,,  same  character  of  impurity  to  the  Sama-veda, 
though  on  different  grounds,  Yish.  Pur.  ii.  1 1 ,  5  : 

Yd  tu  saktih  para  Vishnor  rig-yajuh-sdma-sanjnitd  \  saishd  trayl 
tapaty  amho  jagatas  cha  hinasti  yat  \  saiva  Vishnuh  sthitah  sthitydfii 
jagatah  pdlanodyatah  \  rig-yajufosdma-bhuto  'ntah  sai'itur  dvija  tish- 
thati  |  mdsi  mdsi  ravir  yo  yas  tatra  tatra  hj  sd  pard  \  traylmayl  VisJmu- 
saktir  avasthtinam  k&roti  vai  \  Richas  tapanti  purt&hne  madhy-ahne  'tha 
yajumshy  atha  \  vrihadrathantarddlni  sdmtiny  ahnah  kshaye  ravau  \ 
angam  eshd  trayl  Vishnor  rig-yajuh-sdma-sanjnitd  \  Vislinu-saktir  avas- 
thdnam  wyusdditye  karoti  sd  \  na  Icevalam  ravau  saktir  vaithnavl  sd  tra- 
ylmayl |  Brahmd  'tha  Purusho  Rudras  tray  am  etat  traylmayam  \  sar- 
gdddv  rinmayo  Brahmd  $thitau  Vishnur  yajurmayah  \  Rudrah  sdmamayo 
'ntdya  tasmdt  tasydsuchir  dhvanih  \ 


3  OF    THE   VEDAS,    HELD    BY   INDIAN   AUTHORS.  27 

"The  supreme  energy  of  Vishnu,  called  the  Rich,  Yajush,  and 
Saman — this  triad  burns  up  s\n  and  all  things  injurious  to  the  world. 
During  the  continuance  of  the  world,  this  triad  exists  as  Vishnu,  who  is 
occupied  ih  the  preservation  of  the  universe, %nd  who  in  the  form  of  the 
Rich,  Yajush,  and  Saman,  abides  within  the  sun.  That  supreme  energy 
of  Yishnu,  consisting  of°the  triple  Yeda,  dwells  in  the  particular  form 
of  the  sun,  which'  presides  *>ver  each  month.  The  Rich  verses  shine  in 
the  moaning  sun,  the  Taju^sh  verses  in,  the  meridian  beams,  and  the 
Yrihad^athantara  and  other  Sama  verses  in  *his  declining  niys.  This 
triple  Yeda  is  the  body  of  Yishnu,  and  this  his  energy  abides  in  the 
monthly  sun.  But  not  only  does  this  energy  of  Yishnu,  formed  of 
the  triple  Yeda,  reside  in  the  sun :  Brahma,  Purusha  (Yishnu),  and 
Rudra  also  constitute  a  triad  formed  of  the  triple  Yeda.  Acting  in 
creation,  Brahma  is  formed  of  the  Rig-veda ;  presiding  over  the  con- 
tinuance of  the  universe,  Yishnu  is  composed  of  the  Yajur-veda;  and 
for  the  destruction  of  the  worlds,  Rudra  is  made  up  of  the  Sama-veda  ; 
hence  the  sound  of  this  Yeda  is  impure." 

Vdyu  Purdna. — Other  passages  also  may  be  found  in  works  which 
are  far  from  being  reputed  as  heretical,  in  which  the  Yedas,  or  parti- 
cular parts  of  them,  are  not  spoken  of  with  the  same  degree  of  respect 
as  they  are  by  Manu.  Thus  the  Vayu  Purana  gives  precedence  to  ,the 
Puranas  over  the  Yedas  in  the  order  of  creation  (i.  56 ao) : 

Prathamam  sarva-sdstrdndm  Puranam  Brahmand  smritam  \  anantarafii 
cha  vaktrelhyo  vedd<$  tasya  vim^sritdh  \ 

"First  of  all  ths  S'astras,  the  Purana  was  uttered  by  Brahma.  Sub- 
sequently the  Yedas  issued  from  his  mouths."  » 

Similarly  the  Padma  Purana  says  : 

Puranam  sarva-sdstrdndm  prathamam  jBrahmand  smritam  \  tri-varga- 
sddhanam.punyam  sata-hoti-pravistaram  \  nirdagdheshu  cJia  lokeshu  I'iiji- 
rupena  ITesai'ah  \  Brahmanas  tu  samadesdd  veddn  ahritavdn  asau  \  angdni 
chaturo  redan  purtina-nyai/q-vistard[n?^  \  mimamsa[_m?^\  dharma-sastram 
cha  par'yrihydtha  ^dmpratam  \  matsya-riipena  cha1  punah  kalpdddv  uda- 
kdntare  \  asesliam  etat  Jcathitam  ityddi  \ 31 

"  The  Purana,  which  is  an  instrument  for  effecting  the  three  objects 

•  so  page  48  Of  Prof.  Aufrecht's  Catalogue  of  Sanskrit  MSS.  in  the  Bod?eian  Library 
at  Oxford. 
31  See  the  same  Catalogue  p.  12,  col.  i.  •> 


28  OPINIONS    KEGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

of  life,  which  is  pure,  and  extends  to  the  length  of  a  hundred  crores  of 
verses,  was  the  first  of  all  the  S'astras  which  Brahma  uttered.  When 
the  worlds  had  heen  burnt  up,  Kesuva  (Krishna),  in  the  form  of  a 
horse,  and  obeying  Brahma's  command,  rescued  the  Vedas/-  Having 
taken  them  with  their  appendages,  the  Puranas,  the  Nyaya,  the  Mi- 
mansa,  and  the  Institutes  of  Law,  he  now  at  'the  beginning  of  r  the 
Kalpa  promulgated  them  all  again  in  the  fonr  of  a  fish  from  the  midst 
of  the  waters."  ' 

-  In  the  Matsya  Puraiaa,  iii.  2  ff.,  not  only  is  priority  of  creation 
claimed  for  the  Puranas,  but  also  the  qualities  of  eternity  and  identity 
with  sound,  which  are  generally  predicated  of  the  Vedas  alone  : 

Rupam  dadhdra3- prathamam  amardnam  Pitdmahah  \  dvirlhutds  tato 
veddh  sdngopdnga-pada-lcramdh  \  3.  Purdnam  sarva-sdstrdndm  pratha- 
mam Brahmand  smritam  \  nityam  sabdamayam  punyam  sata-koti-pra- 
vistaram  \  4.  Anantaram  cha  valdrelhyo  vedds  tasya  vinissritdh  \  ml- 
mdmsd  nydya-vidyd  cha  pramdndshtaka-samyuta  \  5.  Veddlhydsa-rata- 
sydsya  prajd-lcdmasya  mdnasdh  \  manasd  puna-srishtdh  vai  jdtdh  ye 
tena  mdnasdh  \ 

2.  "Pitamaha  (Brahma),  first  of  all  the  immortals,  took  shape  :  then 
the  Vedas  with  their  Angas  and  Upangas  (appendages  and  minor  ap- 
pendages), and  the  various  modes  of  their  textual  arrangement,  were 
manifested.  3.  The  Purana,  eternal,  formed  of  sound,  pure,  extending 
to  the  length  of  a  hundred  crores  of  verses,  was  the  first  of  the  S'astras 
which  Brahma  uttered:  and  afterwards  the  Yedgs,  issued  from  his 
mouth ;  and  also  the  Mlmansa  and  the  Nyaya  with  its  eightfold  system 
of  proofs.  5.  From  him  (Brahma),  who  was  devoted  to  the  study  of 
the  Yedas,  and  desirous  of  offspring,  sprang  mind-born  sons,  so  called 
because  they  were  at  first  created  by  his  mind." 

The  Vayu  Purana  says  further  on  in  the  same  section  from  which  I 
have  already  quoted : 33  * 

Yo  vidydch  chaturo  veddn  sdngopanishadQ  dvijah  \  na  ehet  purdnam 
samvidydd  naiva  sa  £ydd  vichakshanah  \  Itihdsa-p^rdndlhyd&,  veddn 
samupavrimhayet  \  vibliety  alpa-srutdd  vedo  mdm  ayam  praharishyati  \ 

32  This  quotation  is  made  from  the  Taylor  MS.  No.  1918  of  the  India  Office 
Library.  T^e  Guikowar  MS.  No.  3032  of  the  same  collection,  reads  here  tapas  cha- 
chara,  "  practised  austerity,"  instead  of  rupam  dadhara,  "  took  shape,"  and  has 
besides  a  number  of  other  various  readings  in  these  few  lines. 

3S  See  p.  50  of  Dr.  Aufrecht's  Catalogue. 


•* 

OF    THE   VEDAS,    HELD   BY   INDIAN    AUTHORS.  29 

3 

"He  who  knows  the  ibur  Vedas,  with  their  supplements  and  Upani- 
shads  is  not  really  learned,  unless  he  know  also  the  Puranas.  Let  a 
man,  therefore,  complete  the  Vedas  by  adding  the  Itihasas  and  Puranas. 
The  Ved?,  itf  afraid  of  d  man  of  little  learning,  lest  he  should  treat  it 
injuriously." 

The*  first  of'  these  v^Kses  is3  repeated  in  the  Mahabharata,  Adiparvan 
verse  645,  with'a  variation  in  the  first  half  of  the  second  line  na  cM- 
khyanam  idam  vidydt,  " unless  he  know  also  this  narrative "  (i.e.  the 
Mahabharata).  The  second  of  the  verses  of  tfie  Vayu  Purana  also  is  to 
be  found  in  the  same  book  of  the  Mahabharata  verse  260,  and  is  fol- 
lowed by  these  lines  : 

261.  Earshnam  vedam  imam  vidvdn  srdvayitvd'nnam  asnute  \  .  .  .  . 
264.  Ekatas  chaturo  vedad  Bharatam  chaitad  ekatah  \  pura  Jcila  suraih 
sarvaih  sametya  tulaya  dhritam  \  chaturlhyah  sa-rahasyelhyo  vedelhyo 
hy  adhikam  yadu  \  tada-prabhriti  loJce  'smin  mahalharatam  uchyate  \ 

"  The  man  who  knows  this  Veda  relating  to  Krishna  (the  Mahabha- 
rata), and  repeats  it  to  others,  obtains  food 264.  All  the  col- 
lected gods  formerly  weighed  in  a  balance  the  four  Yedas  which  they 
placed  in  the  one  scale,  and  this  Bharata  which  they  put  into  the  other. 
When  the  latter  was  found  to  exceed  (in  weight)  the  four  Vedas  with 
the  Upanishads,  it  was  thenceforward  called  in  this  wofld  the  Maha- 
bharata." 

Here  there  is  a  play  upon  the  word  Bharata,  as  in  part  identical  with 
bhdra,  "weight."  > 

The  following  verses  of  the  same  Adiparvan  and  many  others  are 
also  eulogistic  of  the  great  epic  poem  : 

2298.  Idam  hi  vedaih  sammitam  pavitram  api  chottamam  \  sravyunum 
uttamam  chedam  purunam  rishi-samstutam  \ 

"  This  (Mahabharata)  is  on  an  equality  with  the  Veda,  pure,  most 
excellent,  the  best  of  all  works  that  are  to  be  recited,  ancient,  and 
praised  by  rishis." 

2314,.  Vijneyah^sa  cha  vedunum  pdrago  Jjhurat-am  pathan  \ 

The  reader  of  the  Bharata  is  to  be  regarded  as  having  gone  through 
the  Vedas/' 

The  benefits  derivable  from  a  perusal  of  the  same  poem  are  also  set 
Yorth  in  the  Svargarohanika-parvan,  verses  "200  ff. 

In  the  same  way  the  Ramayana,  i.  1,  94^  speaks  of  itself,  as  "this 


30  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,    ETC. 

pure  and  holy  narrative,  which  is  on  an  equality  with  the  Vedas" 
(idam  pavitram  dkhydnam  puny  am  vedais  cha  sammitam). 

And  in  the  Bhagavata  Purana,  ii.  8^  28,  it  is  said :  Prdha  Ihdgavatam 
ndma  purdnam  Irahma-scmmitam  \  Brahmane  Bhagavai-pr  obtain  Brahma- 
kalpe  updgate  \ 

"  (Brahmarata)  declared  the  Purana 'called  ethe  BhiLgavata,'  which 
stands  on  an  equality  with  the  Yeda  (brahma],  and  -was  declared  by 
Bhagavat  to  Brahma  when  the  Brahma-kalpa  hsd  arrived." 

Brahma-vaivartta  Purana. — The  Brahma'-vaivartta  Purana  asserts  in 
a  most  audacious  manner  its  own  superiority  to  the  Veda  (i.  48  if.) : 

Bhavagan  yat  tvayd  prishtam  jndtam  sarvam  abhlpsitam  \  sdra-bhutam 
purdneshu  Brahma-vaivarttam  uttamam  \  Purdnopapurdndndm  veddndm 
bhrama-bhanjanam  \ 

11  That  about  which,  venerable  sage,  you  have  inquired,  and  which 
you  desire,  is  all  known  to  me,  the  essence  of  the  Puranas,  the  pre- 
eminent Brahma-vaivartta,  which  refutes  the  errors  of  the  Puranas  and 
Upapuranas,  and  of  the  Yedas."  (Professor  Aufrecht's  Cat.  p.  21.) 

In  the  following  passage  also,  from  the  commencement  of  the  Mun- 
daka  Upanishad,  the  Vedic  hymns  (though  a  divine  origin  would  no 
doubt  be  allowed  to  them34)  are  at  all  events  depreciated,  by  being 
classed  among  other  works  as  part  of  the  inferior  science,  in  contrast  to 
the  Brahma-vidya  or  knowledge  of  Brahma,  the  highest  of  all  know- 
ledge, which  is  expressly  ascribed  to  Brahma  as  its  author : 

1.  Brahma  devdndm  prathamah  samlal&uvavisvasya  Icarttd  bhuvanasya 
goptd  |  sa  Irahma-vidydrn  sarva-vidyd-pratishthdm  Atharvdya  jyeshtha- 
putrdya  prdha  \  2.  Afoarvane  yam  pravadeta  Brahma  Atharvd  tarn 
purovdchdngire  brahma-mdydm  \  sa  Bhdradvdjdya  Satyavdhdya  prdha 
Bhdradvdjo  'ngirase  pardvardhi  \  3.  S'aunalco  ha  vai  Mahdsdlo  'ngirasam 

34  In  fact  the  following  verses  (4  and  6)  occur  in  the  second  chapter  of  the  same 
Mund.  Up. :  Agnir  murddha  chaJcshushl  'diandra-suryyau  disah  srotre  vag  vivritas 
cha  vedah  |  vayuh  prano  hridayam  vis'vam  asya  padbhyam  prithiv!  hy  esha  sarva- 
bhutantaratma  |  ....  6.  TasmUd  richah  sama  ydjTtmshi  dlksha  yajnas  cha  sarve 
kratavo  dakshinas  cha  \  samvatsaram  cha  yajamanas  cha  lokahsomoyatra  pfi'jateyatra 
suryah  \  "  Agni  is  his  [Brahma's]  head,  the  sun  and  moon  are  his  eyes,  the  four 
points  of  the  compass  are  his  ears,  the  uttered  Vedas  are  his  voice,  the  wirfJ  is  his  breath, 
the  universe  is  his  heart,  the  earth  issued  from  his  feet :  he  is  the  inner  soul  of  all 
creatures.  .<•-  .  .  6.  From  him  came  the  Rich  verses,  tke  Saman  verses,  the  Yajush 
verses,  initiatory  rites,  all  oblations,  sacrifices,  and  gifts,  the  year,  the  sacrificer,  and 
the  worlds  where  the  moon  and  sun  purify." 


OF    THE    VEDAS,    HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  31 

a 

tndMvad  upapannah  prapachchha  \  kasmin  nu  lhagavo  vijndte  sarvam  idam 
vijndtam  bhavatlti  \  4.  Tasmai  sa  hovdcha  \  dve  vidye  veditavye  Hi  ha  sma 
yad  brahma-vido  vadanti  para  chaii'dpurd  cha  \  5.  Tatrdpard  "  rigvedo 
^yajurvedah^  s^imavedo  'tharvaveddh  sikshd  katyo  vydkaranam  niruktam 
chhando  jyotisham"  iti  \  atha para  yayd  tad  aksharam  adhigamyate  \ 

"Brahma  was  produced  tie  first  among  the  gods,  maker  of  the 
universe,  preserver  -.of  the  world.  He  revealed  to  his  eldest  son 
Atharva;  the  science  of  Brahma,  the  basis  of  all  knowledge.  2.  Atharvan 
of  old'declared  to  Angis  this  science,  which  Brahma  had  unfolded  to 
him ;  and  Angis,  in  turn,  explained  it  to  Satyavaha,  descendant  of 
Bharadvaja,  who  delivered  this  traditional  lore,  in  succession,  to 
Angiras.  3.  Mahasala  S'aunaka,  approaching  Angiras  with  the  proper 
formalities,  inquired,  '"What  is  that,  o  venerable  sage,  through  the 
knowledge  of  which  all  this  [universe]  becomes  known  ? '  4.  [Angiras] 
answered,  '  Two  sciences  are  to  be  known — this  is  what  the  sages  versed 
in  sacred  knowledge  declare — the  superior  and  the  inferior.  5.  The 
inferior  [consists  of]  the  Rig-veda,  the  Yajur-veda,  the  Sama-veda,  the 
Atharva-veda,  accentuation,  ritual,  grammar,  commentary,  prosody,  and 
astronomy.  The  superior  science  is  that  by  which  the  imperishable  is 
apprehended.33 

I  adduce  some  further  passages  which  depreciate  the  ceremonial,  or 
exoteric  parts  of  the  Yedas,  in  comparison  with  the  esoteric  knowled*ge 
of  Brahma. 

My  attention  was  drawn  to  ^th.6  following  passage  of  the  Bhagavad 
Gita,  ii.  42  ff.,  by  its  quotation  in  the  Rev.  Professor  K.  M.  Banerjea's 
Dialogues  on  Hindu  Philosophy : 

Yam  imam pusTipitdmvdchampravadanty  avipaschitah  \  veda-vdda-ratdh 
pdrtha  ntinyad  astlti  vddinah  \  kdmdtmdnfih  svarga-pdrdh  janma-karma- 
phala-praddM  \  kriyd-visesha-  bahuldm  bhogaisvarya-gatim  prati  \  bhogais- 
varya-prasaktdndm  tayd  'pahrita  -  chptasdm  \  vyavasdydtmikd  luddhih 
samudhau  na  vidhlyate  \  traigunya-vishaydh  veddh  nistraigunyo  bhavdr- 


35  Compare  the  MahabMrata,  Adip.  verse  258,  which,  speaks  of  the  Aranyakas  as 
superior  to  (tli3  other  parts  of)  the  Vedas,  and  ararita  as  the  best  of  medicines  (aran- 
yakam  cha  vedebhyas  chaushadhibhyo  'mritam  yatha).  Similarly  the  S'atapatha  Brah- 
mana,  x,  3,  5,  12  (quoted  in,  MUller's  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  p.  315,  note),  speaks  of  the 
Upanishads  as  being  the  essence  of  the  Yajush :  Tasya  vai  etasya  yajusho  rasah  eva 
upanishat  \ 


32  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,    ETC., 

i 

juna  |   ....  ydvdn  arthah  udapdne  sarvatah  samplutodalce  \  tdvdn  sar- 
veshu  vedeshu  brdhmanasya  mjdnatah  \ 

11  A  flowery  doctrine,  promising  the  reward  of  works  performed  in 
this  embodied  state,  prescribing  numerous  ceremonies,  wS.tl?  a  view  to, 
future  gratification  and  glory,  is  preached  by  unlearned  men,  deyoted 
to  the  injunctions  of  the  Veda,  assertorfc  of  its-  exclusive  importance, 
lovers  of  enjoyment,  and  seekers  after  paradise.'  Tiie  restless  minds 
of  the  men  who,  through  this  flowery  doctrine^  have  become  bereft  of 
.wisdom,  and  are  ardenf,  ia  the  pursuit  of  future  gratification  and  glory, 
are  not  applied  to  contemplation.  The  Vedas  have  fou  their  objects  the 
three  qualities  (sattva,  rajas,  tamas,  or  '  goodness,'  'passion,'  and  'dark- 
ness ') ;  but  be  thou,  Arjuna,  free  from  these  th^ee  qualities  ....  As 
great  as  is  the  use  of  a  well  which  is  surrounded  on  every  side  by  over- 
flowing waters,  so  great  [and  no  greater]  is  the  use  of  the  Yedas  to  a 
Brahman  endowed  with  true  knowledge." 

Chhandogya  Upanishad,  vii.  1,  1,  p.  473  (Colebrooke's  Essays,  i.  12) : 

"  Adhlhi  bhagavah  "  Hi  ha  upasasdda  Sanatkumdram  Ndradah  \  tarn 
ha  uvucha  "  yad  vettha  tena  md  upaslda  tatas  te  urddhvam  vakshydmi" 
iti  |  2.  Sa  ha  uvucha  "  rigvedam  bhagavo  'dhyemi  yajurvedam  sdmavedam 
dtharvanam  chaturtham  itihdsa  - purdnam  panchamam  veddndm  vedam 
pitryam  rd&im  datvam  nidhim  vdlcovdhyam  ekdyanaih  deva-vidydm  brah- 
ma-vidydm  bhuta-vidydm  Icshatra-vidydm  nakshatra-vidydih  sarpa-deva- 
jana-vidydm  etad  lhagavo  'dhyemi  \  3.  So  ''ham  bhagavo  mantra-vid  evdsmi 
na  titma-vit  \  srutam  hy  eva  me  bhagavaddpisebhyas  '  tarati  sokam  dtma-vid ' 
iti  so  'ham  bhagavah  sochdmi  tarn  md  bhagardn  sokasya  pdram  tdrayatv  " 
iti  |  tarn  ha  uvdcha  "tyadvai  kincha  etad  adhyagishthdh  ndma  evaitat 
4.  Ndma  vai  rigvedo  yajurvedah  sdmavedah  dtharvanas  chaturthah  itihdsa- 
purdnah  panchamo  veddndm  nedah  pitryo  rdsir  daivo  nidhir  vdkovdkyam 
ekdyanam  deva-vidyd  brahma-vidyd  bhuta-vidyd  kshatra-vidyd  nakshatra- 
vidyd  sarpa-deva-jana-vidyd  ndma  t-vaitad  ndma  updsva  "  iti  \  5.  "  Sa  yo 
ndma  brahma  ity  update  ydvad  ndmno  gatam  tatra  asya  yathd  kdmachdro 
bhavati  yo  ndma  brchma  'ity  itpdste"  \  "  asti  bhapivo  ndmno  bhuyah  " 
iti  |  "  ndmno  vdva  bhuyo  'sti"  iti  \  "tan  me  bhagavdn  bravltv"  iti  \ 

1.  "  Narada  approached  Sanatkumara,  saying,  'Instruct  fne,  venerable 
sage.'  He  received  for  answer,  '  Approach  me  with  [i.e.  tell  me]  that 
which  thou  knowest ;  and  I  will  declare  to  thee  whatever  more  is  to 
be  learnt.'  2.  Narada  replied,  'I  am  instructed,  venerable  sage,  in  the 


OF    THE   VEDAS,   HELD   BY  INDIAN   AUTHORS.  33 

*  • 

Rig-veda,  the  Yajur-veSa,  the  Sama-veda,  the  Atharvana,  [which  is] 
the  fourth,  the  Itihasas  and  Puranas,  [which  are]  the  fifth  Veda  of  the 
Vedas,  the  rites  of  the  pitris,  arithmetic,  the  knowledge  of  portents,  and 
of  great  peripds,  the  'art.of  reasoning,36  ethics,  the  science  of  the  gods,  the 

4  > 

knowledge  of  Scripture,  demonology,  the  science  of  war,  the  knowledge 
of  •  thy  stars,  $he  sciences  of  .serpents  and  deities  ;  this  is  what  I  have 
studied.  3.  I,  venerable  man,  know  only  the  hymns  (mantras]  ;  while 
I  am  ignorant*  of  soul.  *But  I  hav<j  heard  from  reverend  sages  like 
thyself*  that  'the  man  wh«  is  acquainted  with  soul  overpasses  grief.' 
Now  I,  venerable  man,  am  afflicted  ;  but  do  thou  transport  me  over  my 
grief.'  Sanatkumara  answered,  '  That  which  thou  hast  studied  is 
nothing  but  name.  4.  The  Rig-veda  is  name  ;  and  so  are  the  Yajur-veda, 
the  Sama-veda,  the  Athar*-ana,  which  is  the  fourth,  and  the  Itihasas 
and  Puranas,  the  fifth  Veda  of  the  Vedas,  etc.  [all  the  other  branches 
of  knowledge  are  here  enumerated  just  as  above],  —  all  these  are  but 
name  :  worship  name.  5.  He  who  worships  name  (with  the  persuasion 
that  it  is)  Brahma,  ranges  as  it  were  at  will  over  all  which  that  name 
comprehends  ;  —  such  is  the  prerogative  of  him  who  worships  name 
(with  the  persuasion  that  it  is)  Brahma.'  '  Is  there  anything,  venerable 
man,'  asked  Narada,  '  which  is  more  than  name  ?  '  '  There  is,'  he  replied, 
'  something  which  is  more  than  name.'  *  Tell  it  to  me,'  rejcyned  Narada." 

(S'ankara  interprets  the  words  panchamam  veddndm  vedam  differently 
from  what  I  have  done.  He  separates  the  words  veddndm  vedam  from 
panthamaib  and  makes  them  to  mean  "the  means  of  knowing  the 
Vedas,"  i.e.  grammar.  See,  however,  the  Bhag.  Pur.  i.  4,  20,  below, 
p.  42,  and  iii.  12*39,  to.be  quoted  further  on. 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xiv.  7,  1,  22  (=  Brih'adaranyaka  Upanishad, 
iv.  3,  22,  p.  792  fi°.,  p.  228-9  of  Dr.  Roar's  English)  :  Atra  pita  apitd 
lhavati  maid  amdtd  lokdh  alokdTi  devdh  adevdh  veddh  aveddh  yajndh  aya- 
jndh  |  atra  steno  'steno  lhavati  Ihruna-ltd  alhruna-hd  paulkaso  'paulkasas 
chdnddlo  'chanddlah  sramano  'sramanas  ttipaso  'tdpaso  namdgatam  pun- 
yena  ananvdgatam  pdpena*~*tlrno  hi  tadd  sarvdn  £okan  hridayasya  lhavati  \ 


36  1rakova.kyam  =  farka-sastram  —  Sayana.     The  word  is  elsewhere  explained  as 
meaning  "  dialogues  "  (ukti-pratyukti-rupam  prakaranam  —  Comm.  on  S'.  P.  Br.  xi. 
5,  6,  8).     The  sense  of  some  of  the  terms  in  this  list  of  sciences  is  obscure;  but 
exactness  is  not  of  any  great  importance  to  the  general  drift  of  the  passJgj. 

37  I  give  here  the  reading  of  the  Br.  Ar.  Up.    The  S'.P.  Br.  in  Professor  Weber's 


34  OPINIONS   REGARDING  THE   ORIGIN,   ETC., 

"In  that  [condition  of  profound  slumber,  sashupti,~\  a  father  is  no 
father,  a  mother  is  no  mother,  the  worlds  are  no  worlds,  the  gods  are 
no  gods,  and  the  Vedas  are  no  Vedas,  sacrifices  are  no  sacrifices.  In 
that  condition  a  thief  is  no  thief,  a  murderer  of  embryus  is  710  murderer 
of  embryos,  a  Paulkasa  no  Paulkasa,  a  Chandala  no  Chandala,  a  S'ra- 
mana  no  S'ramana,  a  devotee  no  devotee  ;  the  saint  has  then  no  relation, 
either  of  advantage  or  disadvantage,  to  merit  or  to  sin ;  for  he  then 
crosses  over  all  griefs  of  the  hearV 

(I  quote  from  the  commentary  on  the  Br.  Ar.  Up.  S'ankara's  explan- 
ation of  the  unusual  words  nanvdgata  and  ananvdgata :  Nanvugatam  na 
anvdgatam  ananvdgatam  asambaddkam  ity  etat  punyena  sdstra-vihitena 
karmand  tathd  pdpena  vihitdlcarana-pratishiddha-kriyd-lakshanena  \ 

o 

"  Nanvdgata=na  (not)  anvdgata,  and  ananvdjata=asambaddha,  uncon- 
nected. This  condition  is  unconnected  either  with  merit,  i.e.  action 
enjoined  by  the  sastra,  or  with  sin,  i.e.  action  defined  as  the  neglect 
of  what  is  enjoined,  or  the  doing  of  what  is  forbidden." 

To  the  same  effect  the  great  sage  Narada  is  made  to  speak  in  the 
Bhagavata  Parana,  iv.  29,  42  ff.  : 

Prajdpati-patih  sdkshad  lhagavdn  Giriso  Manuh  \  Dafohddayah  pra- 
jddhyakshdh  naishthikdh  Sanakddayah  \  Marichir  Atry-angirasau  Pulas- 
tyah  PulahaJi  Kratuh  \  Bhrigur  Vasishthah  ity  ete  mad-antdh  brahma- 
va&lnah  \  adydpi  vdchaspatayas  tapo-vidyd-samtidhibhih  \  pasyanto  'py 
na  pasyanti  pasyantam  Paramesvaram  \  sabda-brahmani  dushpdre  chn- 

rantah  uruvistare   I    mantra-ling  air  vyavachclihinnam  bhajanto  na  viduh 

v 
param  \  yadd  yasydnugrihndti  bhagavdn  dtma-bhdvitah  \  sajahdti  malim 

lake  rede  cha  parinishthitdm  \  tasmdt  Jcarmasu  varKishmann  ajndndd 
artha-kdsishu  \  md  'rtha'-drishtim  krithdh  srotra-sparsishv  asprisJita-vas- 
tushu  |  sva-lokam  na  vidus  te  vai  yatra  devo  Jandrdanah  \  dhur  dhumra- 
dhiyo  vedam  sa-karmalcam  a-tad-vidah  \  dstlrya  darbhaih  prdg-agraih 
litirtmyena  kshiti-mandalam  \  stabdho  vrihad-vadhdd  muni  karma  navaishi 
yat  param  \  tat  karma  Hari-tosham  yat  sd  vidyd  tan-matir  yayd  \ 

"Brahma  himself,  the  divine  Girisa  (S'iva),  Manu,  Daksha  and  the 
other  Prajapatis,  Sanaka  and  other  devotees,  Marlchi,  Atri,  Angiras, 
Pulastya,  Pulaha,  Kratu,  Bhrigu,  Vasishtha — all  these  expounders  of 
sacred  knowledge,  and  masters  of  speech,  including  myself  (Narada)  as 

text  gives  aiianvagatah  punyena  ananvagatah  papena.  And  yet  the  commentary 
alludes  to  the  word  anamagata  being  in  the  neuter. 


OF    THE    VEDAS,  HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  35 

*  • 

the  last,  though  seeing,  are  yet,  to  this  day,  unable,  by  austerity,  by 
science,  by  contemplation,  to  see  Paramesvara  (the  supreme  God),  who 
.  sees  all  things.  Wandering  in  the  vast  field  of  the  verbal  brahma  (the 
Veda),  whi?h  is  Himcu^t  to  traverse,  men  do^not  recognise  the  Supreme, 
while  they  worship  him  as  he  is  circumscribed  by  the  attributes  speci- 
fied in  the  hymns  (mqntrast).  "When  the  Divine  Being  regards  any 
man  w^th  favoijr,  that  man,  sunk  in  the  contemplation  of  soul,  aban- 
dons all  thougl/ts  which  are  set  upon*  the  world  and  the  Veda.  Cease, 
therefore,  Varhishmat,  thrtiugh  ignorance,  tp  look  upon  works  which 

(j  j 

merely  seem  to>  promote  the  chief  good,  as  if  they  truly  effected  that 
object,  (works)  which  only  touch  the  ear,  but  do  not  touch  the  reality. 
The  misty-minded  men,  who,  ignorant  of  the  Veda,  declare  that  works 
are  its  object,  do  not  krx>w  [hisj  own  world,  where  the  divine  Janar- 
dana  abides.  Thou  who,  obstinate  man  that  thou  art,  strewest  the 
whole  earth  with  sacrificial  grass,  with  its  ends  turned  to  the  east,  and 
art  proud  of  thy  numerous  immolations, — thou  knowest  not  what  is  the 
highest  work  of  all.  That  by  which  Hari  (Vishnu)  is  pleased,  is  work . 
that  by  which  the  thoughts  are  fixed  on  him,  is  science." 

I  copy  the  comment  on  a  part  of  this  passage,  viz.  on  verses  45  and  46 : 
S'alda-lrahmani  vede  urur  vistdro  yasya  arthato  'pi  pdra-sunye  tasmin 
varttamdndh  mantrdndm  lingair  vajra-hastatvddi-guna-yukta-vividha- 
devatd-bhidhdna-sdmarthyaih  parichchkinnam  eva  Indrddi-rupam  tat-tat- 
karmdgrahena  bhajantah  param  Paramesvaram  na  viduh  \  Tarhy  anyah 
Ico  ndma  \  karmddy-dgraham  hitvd  paramesvaram  eva  lhajed  ity  ata  aha 
" yadd  yam  anugrihndti"  \  anugrahe  hetuh  \  dtmani  Ihdvitah  san  sa  tadd 
'loke  loka-vyavahdre  'vede  cTia  karma-marge  parinishthitdm  matim  tyajati  \ 
"Men,  conversant  with  the  verbal  brahma,  the  Veda,  of  which  the 
extent  is  vast,  and  which,  in  fact,  is  %boundless,  worshipping  Para- 
mesvara [ihe  supreme  God]  under  the  form  of  Indra,  etc.,  circum- 
scribed by  the  marks  specified  in  the  hymns,  i.e.  limited  to  various 
particular  energies  denominated  deities,  who  are  characterised  by  such 
attributes  as  'wielder  of  "the  thunderbolt,'  etc.;  worshipping  Him, 
I  say,  ^.us,  with  an  addiction  to  particular  rites,  men  do  not  know  the 
supreme  God.  What  other  [god],  then,  [is  there]  ?  He  therefore,  in 
the  words,  '  When  he  regards  any  one  with  favour,'  etc.,  says,  let  a 
man,  abandoning  all  addiction  to  works,  etc.,  worship  the  supreme  God 
alone.  The  reason  for  this  favour  [is  supplied  in  the  following  words]  : 


36  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC. 

( 

'  Sunk  in  the  contemplation  of  soul,  lie  then  Relinquishes  his  regard 
directed  to  the  business  of  the  world  and  to  the  Veda,  i.e.  to  the  method 
of  works.' " 

The  following  passage  from  the  Katha'Upanisbad  (ii.^S)  ip  of  a  some- 
what similar  tendency  (p.  107  of  Roer's  ed.  and  p.  106  of  Eng.  trans.) : 

Ndyam  utmd  pravachanena  labhyo  na  w^edhayd  na  lah?4nd  srtitenti  \ 
yam  evai&ha  vrinute  tena  labhyas  tasyaisha  dtmu  vrinyte  fynum  svdm  \ 

"  This  Soul  is  not  to  be  attained- by  instruction,  nor  by  understanding, 
nor  by  much  scripture.  He  is  attainable  by  him  whom  he  chooses. "  The 
Soul  chooses  that  man's  body  as  his  own  abode." 

The  scholiast  interprets  thus  the  first  part  of  this  text : 

Yadyapi  durvijneyo  'yam  dtmu  tathtipy-  updyena  suvijneyah  eva  ity 
dha  nay  am  dtmd  pravacJianena  anelia-veda-svikaranena  lalkyojneyo  ndpi 
medhayd  granthdrtha-dhdrand-saktyd  na  laJmnd  srutena  kevalena  \  kena 
tarhi  labhyah  ity  uchyate  \ 

"  Although  this  soul  is  difficult  to  know,  still  it  may  easily  be  known 
by  the  use  of  proper  means.  This  is  what  [the  author]  proceeds  to  say. 
This  soul  is  not  to  be  attained,  known,  by  instruction,  by  the  acknow- 
ledgement of  many  Vedas ;  nor  by  understanding,  by  the  power  of  re- 
collecting the  contents  of  books;  nor  by  much  scripture  alone.  By 
what,  then,  isrit  to  be  attained?  This  he  declares." 

It  is  not  necessary  to  follow  the  scholiast  into  the  Vedantic  explana- 
tion of  the  rest  of  the  passage.38 

The  preceding  passages,  emanating  from  two  different  classes  of 
writers,  both  distinguished  by  the  spirituality  of  ctheir.  aspirations, 
manifest  a  depreciation,  more  or  less  distinct  and  emphatic,  of  the 
polytheism  of  the  Vedic  hymns,  as  obstructive  rather  than  promotive, 
of  divine  knowledge,  and  express  disregard,  if  not  contempt,  of  the 
ceremonies  founded  on  that  polytheism,  and  performed  with  «a  view  to 
the  enjoyments  of  paradise. 

SECT.  Y. — Division  of,  the  Vedas,  according  to  the  Tifknu,  Vuyu^,  and 
Bhugavata  Purdnas,  and  the  Mahdbhdrata. 

Some  of  the  Puranas,  as  we  have  seen  above,  represent  the  four 
Vedas  as  having  issued  from  Brahma's  different  n?ouths.     If  they  had 
38  See  Prof.  Miiller's  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  1st  ed.  p.  320,  and  p.  109. 


» 
t  OF,  THE    VEDAS,    HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  37 

each  a  separate  origin  of  this  kind,  it  would  seem  that  they  must  have 
had  from  the  time  of  their  production  a  distinct  existence  also.  And 
yet  it  is  elsewhere  iaid  that  there  was  originally  but  one  Veda,  which 
was  subsequently  divided  into  four  portions. 

Thus  the  Vishnu  Purana  gives  the  following  account  of  the  division 
of  ihe  Veda,  describe?! 'as  having  been  originally  but  one,  into  four 
parts,  iii.  2,  18^:  * 

Kribe  yuge  param  jndnary,  Kapilddi-smrupa-dhrik  \  daddti  sarva-bhu- 
tdndm'sarva-bhuta-hite  ratah  \  chakravartti-svcfrupena  tretdydm  api  s*a 
prabhuh  \  Dushidndm  nigraham  kurvan  paripdti  jagattrayam  \  Vedam 
ekam  chatur-bhedam  kritvd  sdkhd-satair  vibhuh  \  karoti  bahulam  bhuyo 
Vedavydsa-svarupa-dHrik  \  veddms  tu  dvdpare  vyasya,  etc. 

11  In  the  Krita  age,  Vishnu,  devoted  to  the  welfare  of  all  creatures, 
assumes  the  form  of  Kapila  and  others  to  confer  upon  them  the  highest 
knowledge.  In  the  Treta  age  the  Supreme  Lord,  in  the  form  of  a  uni- 
versal potentate,  represses  the  violence  of  the  wicked,  and  protects  the 
three  worlds,  Assuming  the  form  of  Vedavyasa,  the  all-pervading  Being 
repeatedly  divides  the  single  Veda  into  four  parts,  and  multiplies  it  by 
distributing  it  into  hundreds  of  sakhas.  Having  thus  divided  the 
Vedas  in  the  Dvapara  age,"  etc.39 

This  is  repeated  more  at  length  in  the  following  section  (Vish.  Pur. 
iii.  3,  4ff.):" 

Veda-drumasya  Maitreya  sdkhd-bhedaih  sahasrasah  \  na  sakyo  vistaro 
vaktum  sankshepene*  srinushva?  tarn  \  Dvdpare  dvdpare  Vishnur  Vydsa- 
rupl  mahdmune  \  Vedam  ekam  sa  bahudhd  kurute  jagato  hitah  \  mryam 
tejo  balaih  chdlpam  manushydndm  avekshya  vai  ^hitdya  sarva-bhutdndm 
veda-bheddn  karoti  sah  \  yayd  sa  kurute  tanvd  vedam  ekam  prithak  pra- 
bhuh |  Vedavydsdbhidhdnd  tu  sd  milrttir  Madhuvidvishah  |  .  .  .  .  Ashtd- 
vimsati-kritvo  vai  veddh  vyastdh  maharshibhih  \  Vaivasvate  'ntare  tasmin 
dvdpareshu  punah  punah  \ 

"It  is  not  possible,  Maitreya,  to  describe  in  detail  the  tree  of  the 
Vedas  \\ith  its  thousand  branches  (sakhas) ;  but  listen  to  a  summary. 
A  friend  to  the  world,  Vishnu,  in  the  form  of  Vyasa,  divides  the  single 
Veda  into  many  parts.  He  does  so  for  the  good  of  all  creatures,  because 
he  perceives  the  vigour,  energy,  and  strength  of  men  to  haie  become 

39  Compare  on  this  subject  portions  of  the  passage  of  the  Mahabhitr*ta  quoted  in 
the  First  Volume  of  this  work,  pp.  144-146. 


38  OPINIONS    REGAKDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

v 

decreased.    Vedavyasa,  in  whose  person  he  performs  this  division,  is  an 

impersonation  of  the  enemy  of  Madhu  (Vishnu) Eight-and- 

twenty  times  in  the  Dvapara  ages  oV?,this  Vaivasvata  Manvantara4" 
have  the  Yedas  been  divi'ded  by  great  sages."  •  These  sages'  are  then 
enumerated,  and  Krishna  Dvaipayana 41  is  the  twenty-eighth.  0  , 

The  subject  is  resumed  at  the  beginning  of  'tne  next  section  (V£sh. 
Pur.  iii.  4,  1  ff.)  :  c 

Adyo  veda£  chatushpddah  sala-sdhasra-sapimitah  \  Tato  das^-gunah 
I'ritsno  yajno  'yam  sarva^lcdmadhuk  \  Tato  'tra  mat-suto  Vydso  'sTlttivifn- 
satitame  'ntare  \  vedam  ekam  chatushpddam  chaturdhd  vydbhajat  pralhuh  \ 
yathd  tu  tena  vai  vyastdh  Vedavyasena  dhlmatd  \  Vedds  tathd  samastais 
tair  vyastah  Vyasais  tathd  mayd  \  tad  anenaiva  'veddndm  sdkhdbheddn 
dvijottama  \  chaturyugeshu  rachitdn  samasteshv  avadhdraya  \  Krishna- 
dvaipdyanam  Vydsam  viddhi  Ndrdyanam  prdblium  \  ko  'nyo  hi  Ihuvi 
Maitreya  Mahdbhdrata-Jcrid  IJiavet  \  Tena  vyastdh  yathd  Veddh  mat-pu- 
trena  mahdtmand  \  Dvdpare  Jiy  atra  Ifaitreya  tad  me  srinu  yatJidrthatah  \ 
Brahmand  chodito  Vydso  veddn  vyastum  prachakrame  \  Atha  sishydn  sa 
jagrdha  chaturo  veda-pdra-gdn  \  Rigveda-srdvakam  Pailam  jagrdha  sa 
mahdmunih  \  Vaisampdyana-ndmdnam  Yajurvedasya  clidgrahlt  \  Jaimi- 
nim  Sdma-vedasya  tathaivdtharvaveda-vit  \  Sumantus  tasya  sishyo  'bhud 
Ve&avydsasya  dhlmatah  \  Romaharshana-ndmdnam  mahdluddhim  mahd- 
munim  \  Sutam  jagrdha  sishyam  sa  itihdsa-purdnayoh  \ 

"  The  original  Veda,  consisting  of  four  quarters,,  contained  a  hundred 
thousand  verses.  From  it  arose  the'  entire  system  f»f  sacrifice,  tenfold 
(compared  with  the  present)  and  yielding  all  the  objects  of  desire.  Sub- 
sequently, in  the  twenty-eighth  manvantara  my  son,  [Parasara  is  the 
speaker]  the  mighty  Vyasa,  divided  into  four  parts  the  Veda  which 
was  one,  with  four  quarters.  In  the  same  way  as  the  Vedas  were  divided 

40  For  an  account  of  the  Manvantaras,  ^ee  the  First  Part  of  this  work,  pp.  39,  43  ff. 

11  Lassen  (Ind.  Ant.  2nd  ed.  i.  777,  note)  remarks :  "  Vyusa  signifies  arrangement,  and 
this  signification  had  still  retained  its  place  in  the  recollection  of  the  ancient  recorders  of 
the  legend,  who  have  fermed  from  his  name  an  irregular 'perfect,  viz.fvivyasa." 
Lassen  refers  to  two  passages  of  the  Mahabharata  in  which  the  name  is  explained, 
viz.  (i.  2417),  Vivyasa  vedan  yasmat  sa  tasmad  Vyasah  iti  smritah  \  "He  is  called 
Vyasa  because  he  divided  the  Veda."  And  (i.  4236)  To  vyasya  vedaihs  chaturas 
tapcsa  bhagavan  rishih  \  lake  vyasatvam  apede  karshnyat  Tcrishnatvam  eva  cha  \  "The 
divine  sage^  (Krishna  Dvaipayana  Vyasa)  who,  through  fervid  devotion,  divided  the 
four  Vedas,  and  so  obtained  in  the  world  the  title  of  Vyasa,  and  from  his  blackness, 
the  name  of  Krishna."  , 


> 

t  OF  .THE    VE'DAS,    HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  39 

by  the  wise  Vyasa,  so  had  they  been  divided  by  all  the  [preceding]  Vy- 
asas,  including  myself.  And  fcaow  that  the  sakha  divisions  [formed]  by 
him  [were  the  same  As  those]  fqrmed  in  all  the  periods  of  four  yugas. 
Learn,  too*  that  Krishna  Dvaipayana  Vyasa  was  the  lord  Narayana  ;  for 
whp  else  on  earth  could  have  composed  the  Mahabharata  ?  Hear  now 
correctly  how  the  Veda*s  were  divided  by  him,  my  great  son,  in  this  Dva- 
para  age.  Wher^,  commanled  by  Brahma,  Vyasa  undertook  to  divide  the 
Vedas,  he  took  four  discipline  who  had  read  through  those  books.  The 
great  muni  took  Paila  as  teacher  of  the  Ricli,  Vaisampayana  of  the 
Yajush,  and  Jaimini  of  the  Saman,  while  Sumantu,  skilled  in  the 
Atharva-veda,  was  also  his  disciple.  He  took,  too,  as  his  pupil  for  the 
Itihasas  and  Puranas*  the  great  and  intelligent  muni,  Suta,  called 
llomahar  shan  a. "  " 

Vdyu  Purdna. — In  the  same  way,  and  partly  in  the  same  words,  the 
Vayu  Purana  (section  Ix.)  represents  the  Vedas  to  have  been  divided  in 
the  Dvapara  age.  It  first  describes  how  this  was  done  by  Mann  in  the 
Svayambhuva,  or  first  manvantara,  and  then  recounts  how  Vyasa  per- 
formed the  same  task  in  the  existing  seventh,  or  Vaivasvata  manvan- 
tara; and,  no  doubt,  also  in  the  Dvapara  age,  though  this  is  not 
expressly  stated  in  regard  to  Vyasa. 

The  following  is  an  extract  from  this  passage  (as  given  in  Dr. 
Aufrecht's  Catalogue  of  the  Bodleian  Sanskrit  MSS.  p.  54) : 

Dvdpare  tu  purdvritte  Manoh  svdyambhuve  'ntare  \  Brahma  Mamim 
iivdchedam  vedam  ly/asyfl  matiamate  \  Parivrittam  yugam  tdta  svalpa- 
virydh  dvijdtayah\  samvrittdh  yuga-doshena  sarvam  chaivayathdkramam  \ 
bhrashta-mdnam  yuga-vasdd  alpa-sishtam  hi  drisfiate  \  Dasa-sdhasra-bhd- 
gena  hy  avasishtam  krittid  idam  \  mryam  tejo  balam  chdlpam  sarvam 
chaiva  pranasyati  \  rede  veddh  hi  Icdryydh  syur  md  bhud  veda-vindsanam  \ 

vede  ndsam  anuprdpte  yajno  ndsam  gamishyati  \  yajne  nashte  deva-ndsas 

i 
42  Mahldhara  on  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita  ("Weber's  ed.  p.  1)  says,  in  regard  to  the 

division  of  the  Vedas :  Tatradav  Brahma-paramparaya  praptam  Vedam  Vedavyaso 
mcmda-mc^tln  manush$an  vichintya  tat-kripaya  chaturdhS  vyasya  Rig-yajuh-sama- 
tharvakhyams  chaturo  vtdan  Paila-  Vaisampayana-Jaimini-Sumantubhyah  Jcramad 
upadidesa  te  cha  sva-sishebhyah  \  Evam  paramparaya  sahasra-sakho  Vedo  jatah  \ 
"  Vedavyasa,  having  regard  to  men  of  dull  understanding,  in  kindness  to  them,  divided 
into  four  parts  the  Veda  which  had  been  originally  handed  down  by  tradition  from 
Brahma,  and  taught  the  f<5ur  Vedas,  called  Rich,  Yftjush,  Saman,  and  Atharvan,  in 
order,  to  Paila,  Vaisampayana,  Jaimini,  and  Sumantu ;  and  they  again  to  their  disciples. 
In  this  way,  by  tradition,  the  Veda  of  a  thousand  s'akhas  was  produced." 


40  OPINIONS  REGARDING    THE  ORIGIN,   ETC., 

tatah  sarvam  pranasyati  \  Adyo  vedas  chatmh-pddo  sata-sdhasra-sammi- 
tah  |  Punar  dasa-gunah  kritmo  yajno  vai,  sarva-kdma-dhuk  \  Evam  uktas 
tatliety  uktvd  Manur  loka-hite  ratah  \  i-edam  ekam  ohatysh-pddam  chatur- 
dhd  vyabhajat  prabhuh  \  Bfrahmano  vachandt  tdta  lokdndm  hita^ttdmyayd  \ 
tad  aham  varttamdnena  yushmdlcam  veda-Ttalpanam  I  manvantarena  va- 
lishydmi  vyatltdndm  prahalpanam  \  pratyakslienh  fyarokshdm  vai  tad  pibo- 
dhata  sattamdh  \  Asmin  yuge  krito  VydsaTi^  Pdrdsaryah  parantapah  \ 
"Dvaipdyanah"  iti  khydto  Visitor  amsah  prakirtiitah  \  Brahmand  chodi- 
tah  so  'smin  vedam  vyasfum  prachalcrame  \  A.tha  sishyan  sa  jagrdha  clia- 
turo  veda-kdrandt  \  Jaiminim  oha  Sumantum  cha  Vaiiampdyanam  eva 
cha  |  Pailaih  teshdm  chaturtham  tu  panchamam  Lomaharshanam  \ 

"  In  the  former  Dvapara  of  the  Svayambhuva'  manvantara,  Brahma 
said  to  Manu,  '  Divide  the  Yeda,  o  sage.  The  age  is  changed ;  through 
its  baneful  influence  the  Brahmans  have  become  feeble,  and  from  the  same 
cause  the  measure  of  everything  has  gradually  declined,  so  that  little  is 
seen  remaining.  A  part  (of  the  Veda)  consisting  of  only  these  ten  thousand 
(verses)  is  now  left  to  us  from  the  Krita  age  ;  vigour,  fire,  and  energy 
are  diminished ;  and  everything  is  on  the  road  to  destruction.  A  plurality 
of  Vedas  must  be  made  out  of  the  one  Veda,  lest  the  Veda  be  destroyed. 
The  destruction  of  the  Veda  would  involve  the  destruction  of  sacrifice ; 
thajt  again  would  occasion  the  annihilation  of  the  gods,  and  then  every- 
thing would  go  to  ruin.  The  primeval  Veda  consisted  of  four  quarters 
and  extended  to  one  hundred  thousand  verses,  while  sacrifice  was  ten- 
fold, and  yielded  every  object  of  desire. "  Being  thy-s  addressed,  Mann, 
the  lord,  devoted  to  the  good  of  the  world,  replied,  «<Be  it  so,'  and  in 
conformity  with  the  command  of  Brahma,  divided  the  one  Veda,  which 
consisted  of  four  quarters,  into  four  parts.43  I  shall,  therefore,  narrate 
to  you  the  division  of  the  Veda  in  the  existing  manvantara  ;  from  which 
visible  division  you,  virtuous  sages,  can  understand  those  invisible 
arrangements  of  the  same  kind  wMch  were  made  in  past  manvantaraf.. 
In  this  Tuga,  the  victorious  son  of  Parasara,,  who  is  called  Dvaipayana, 
and  is  celebrated  as  a"portion  of  Vishnu,  has  been  made  the  Vylsa.  In 
this  Yuga,  he,  being  commanded  by  Brahma,  began  to  divide  the  Vedas. 
For  this  purpose  he  took  four  pupils,  Jaimini,  Sumantu,  Vaisampayana, 

43  The  Mahabharata,  S'untipi>  verse  13,678,  says  the  Vedas  were  divided  in  the 
Svayambhuva  manvantara  by  Apantaratamas,  son  of  SarasvatI  (Tenet  bhinnas  tada 
veda  manoh  svayambhuvo  'ntar<"}. 


INDIAN   AUTHORS.  41 

and  Paila,  and,  as  a  fifth,  Lomaharshana "  [for  the  Puranas  and  Iti- 
hasas,  etc.]  , 

Bhdgarata  Purdya.-^-'Lt  is  in  its  'third  book,  where  the  different  man- 
vantaras  ar£  described,  that  the  Yishnu  Purana  gives  an  account  of  the 

division  of  the  Yedas.     In  the  book  of  the  JBhagavata  Purana  where 

i  * 

the  manvantaras  are  enumerated,  there  is  no  corresponding  allusion  to 

the  division  of  the  Yedas ;  Vut  a  passage  to  the  same  effect  occurs  in 
the  fourth,  section  of  the'first^book,  verses»14ff.  : 

DviijHfre  samamiprdpte  tritiya-yuga-paryaye '  \  >jafah  Pardsardd  yogi 
Vdsavydm  kalayd  "Hareh  \  15.  Sa  kaddchit  Sarasvatydh  upasprisyajalam 
suchi  \  viviktah  ekah  dsmah  udite  ravi-mandale  \  16.  Pardvara-jnah  sa 
rishih  kdlendvyakta-ranthasd  \  yuga-dharma-vyatikaram  pruptam  Ihuri 
yuge  yuge  \  17.  Bhautikandm  cha,  bhuvdndm  sakti-hrasaih  cha  tat-kri- 
tam  |  asraddhadhdnan  nissatvdn  durmedhdn  hrasitdyushah  \  13.  Dur- 
bhagdms  jandn  vlkshya  munir  divyena  chakshushd  \  sarva-varndsramdndm 
yad  dadhyau  hitam  amogha-drik  \  19.  Chtiturhotram  karma  suddham  pra- 
jdndm  vlkshya  vaidikam  \  vyadadhdd  yajna-santatyai  vedam  ekam  chatur- 
vidham  \  20.  Rig-yajuh-sdmdtharvdkhyah  vedas  chatvdra  uddhritdh  \ 
itihdsa-purdnaiti  cha  panchamo  veda  uchyate  \  21.  Tattrarg-veda-dharah 
Pailah  sdmago  Jaiminih  kavih  \  Vaisampdyana  evaiko  nishndto  yajushdm 
ttta  |  22.  Atharvdngirasdm  tisit  Sumantur  duruno  munih  \  itihdsa-purdnd- 
ndmpitd  me  Romaharshanah  \  23.  Te  ete  rishayo  vedam  svam  svam  vyasyann 
anekadhd  \  sishyaih  prasishyais  tach-chhishyair  vedds  te  sdkhino  'bhavan  \ 
24.  Te  era  veddh  duryiedhair  dh&ryante  purushair  yathd  \  evam  chakdra 
lhagavdn  Vydsah  krvpana  -  vatsalah  \  25.  Stri  -sudra  -  dvijabandhundili, 
trayl  na  sruti-gochard  \  karma-sreyasi  mudhdndm  breyah  era  bhaved  iha  \ 
iti  Bhdratam  dkhydnam  kripayd  munina,  kritam  \ 

14.  "When  the  Dvapara  age  had  arrived,  during  the  revolution  of 
that  third  yuga,  the  Yogin  (Vyasa)  was  born,  a  portion  of  Hari,  as  the 
son  of  Parasara  and  Vasavya.  15.  As  on  one  occasion  he  was  sitting 
solitary  at  sunrise,  after  touching  the  pure  waters  of  the  Sarasvati,  (16) 
this  rishi,<who  knew*the  past  and  the  future,  perceiving,  with  the  eye 
of  divine  intelligence,  that  disorder  had  in  each  yuga  been  introduced 
into  the  duties  proper  to  each,  through  the  action  of  time,  whose  march 
is  imperceptible,  (17)  tha£  the  strength  of  beings  formed  of  the  Clements 
had  in  consequence  declined,  that  men  were  destitute  of  faith,  vigour, 
and  intelligence,  that  their  lives  were  shorteised,  (18)  and  that  they 


42  OPINIONS  REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

were  miserable, — reflected  with  unerring  insight  on  the  means  of  bene- 
fitting  the  several  castes  and  orders.  19.  Discerning  that  the  pureVedic 
ceremonies  ought  to  be  performed  foi*  men  by  thfr  agency  of  four  classes 
of  priests,  he  divided  the  one  Yeda  into  four  parts,  with  a^iew  to  the 
performance  of  sacrifice.  20.  Four  Yedas,  called  the  BichtYajush, 
Saman,  and  Atharvan,  were  drawn  forth  froni  it ;  while  the  Itihasas 
and  Puranas  are  called  the  fifth  Veda.  21uOf  th'ese'the  Rich  was  held 
by  Paila,  the  sage  Jaimini  chanted  the,.Saman,  Yaisampayena  alone 
was  versed  in  the  Ytfjush,  (22)  the  dreadful  muni  Sumantu  in  the 
verses  of  Atharvan  and  Angiras,  and  my  father  Romaharshana  in  the 
Itihasas  and  Puranas.  23.  Each  of  these  rishis  arranged  his  own  Yeda 
in  many  ways ;  and  by  the  successive  generations  of  their  disciples 
the  Yedas  were  separated  into  branches  (sdkhas}.  24.  The  venerable 
Vyasa,  kind  to  the  wretched,  acted  thus  in  order  that  the  Yedas  might 
be  recollected  by  men  of  enfeebled  understanding.  25.  And  as  women, 
S'udras,  and  the  inferior  members  of  the  twice-born  classes  were  un- 
fitted for  hearing  the  Yeda,  and  were  infatuated  in  desiring  the  bless- 
ings arising  from  ceremonies,  the  muni,  with  a  view  to  their  felicity, 
in  his  kindness  composed  the  narrative  called  the  Mahabharata." 

But  notwithstanding  the  magnitude  of  the  great  legendary  and  theo- 
logical repertory  which  he  had  thus  compiled,  Yyasa,  we  are  told,  was 
dissatisfied  with  his  own  contributions  to  sacred  science  until  he  had 
produced  the  Bhagavata  Purana  consecrated  to  the  glory  of  Bhagavat 
(Krishna).41  The  completion  of  this 'design  is  ,£hus  narrated,  Bhag. 
Pur.  i.  7,  6  :  0 

Anarthopasamam  sdkshdd  lhakti-yogam  Adhokshaje  \  lokasytijanato 
vidvdms  chakre  Sdtvata  -  samhitfim  \  7.  Yasydm  vai  sruyamdndyam 
JTrishne  parama-purushe  \  bhaktir  ud/patyate  pumsah  soha-moha-bliaya- 
pahd  |  8.  Sa  samhitam  Bhugavatlm  kritva  'nukramya  chdtmajam  \ 
S'ukam  adhyapayamdsa  nwritti-vtlratam  munih  \ 

"Knowing  that  devotion  to  Adhokshaja  (Krishna)  was  the  evident 
means  of  putting  an  end  to  the  folly  of  the  world,'  which  waa  ignorant 
of  this,  he  composed  the  Satvata-Sanhita  (the  Bhagavata).  7.  When  a 
man  listens  to  this  work,  devotion  to  Krishna,  the  supreme  Purusha, 
arises  in  his  mind,  and  frees  him  from  grief,  delusion,  arid  fear.  Having 

44  See  Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  Preface,  p.  xlvi. 


OP  THE  VEDA'S,  HELD   BY   INDIAN  AUTHORS.  43 

s 

completed  and  arranged  this  Sanhita,  the  muni  taught  it  to  his  son 
S'uka,  who  was  indisposed  to  the  .pursuit  of  secular  objects." 

Towards  the  close,  of»  this  Purana?  also,  in  the  sixth  section  of  the 
twelfth  book»(verses  37  if.),  there  is  to  be  founcf  what  Professor  Wilson 
(Vish.  Pur.  Pref.)  calls  "  a  rather  awkwardly  introduced  description  of 

•J  0 

the  arrangement  of  the  ¥e9as  and  Puranas  by  Vyasa." 

The  passage  (as*  gif  en  in,  the  Bombay  lithographed  edition)  is  as 
follows :  ,  *  * 

Suta  ixacha  \  samdhitdtmano  brahman  Brahmaxah  parameshthinah  \ 
hrid-dkdsdd  abhud'nddo  vriUi-rodhdd  vibhdvyate  \  yad-updsanayd  brah- 
man yogino  malam  dtmanah  \  dravya-kriyd-kdrakdkhyaih  dhutvd  ydnty 
apanurbhavam  \  Tato  'bhftt  trivrid  omkdro  yo  'vyakta-prabhavah  svardt  \ 
yat  tal  lingam  Bhagavato  Brahmanah  paramdtmanah  \  srinoti  yah  imam 
sphotam  supta-srotre  cha  sunya-drik  \  yena  vug  vyajyate  yasya  vyakiir 
ukase  dtmanah  \  svadhdmno  brahmanah  sdJcshdd  vdchakah  paramdtmanah  \ 
sa-sarva-mantropanishad-veda-vtjam  sandtanam  \  tasya  hy  dsams  trayo 
varndh  a-Tcdrddydh  Bhrigudvaha  \  dhuryante  yais  trayo  bhdvdh  gunah 
ndmdrtha-vrittayah  \  tato  'Itshara-samdmndyam  asrijad  bhagavdn  aj'ah  \ 
Antassthoshma-svara-sparsa-hrasva-dlrghddi-lalcshanam  \  tendsau  chaturo 
veddms  chaturbhir  vadanair  vibhuh  \  sa-vydhritikdn  somkdrdms  chdtur- 
hotra-vivakshayd  \  putrdn  adhydpayat  tains  tu  brahmarshln  brahma- 
koviddn  \  te  tu  dharmopadeshtdrah  sva-putrebhyah  samddisan  \  te  param- 
parayd  prdptds  tat-tach-chhishyair  dhrita-vrataih  \  chaturyugeshv  atha 
vyastdh  dvdparddau  wfaharshibhtljt,  \  kshmdyushah  kshmd-sattvdn  dur- 
medhdn  mkshya  Jedtytah  \  veddri  brahmarshayo  vyasyan  hridisthdch- 
yuta-noditdh  \  Asminn  apy  antare  brahman  bhagwdn  loka-bhdvanah  \ 
brahmesddyair  lokapdlair  ydchito  dharma-guptage  \  Pardsardt  Satyavat- 
ydm  amsdmsa-kalayd  vibhuh  \  avatirno  mahabhdga  vedam  chalcre  chatur- 
vidham  \  rig-atharva-yajuh-sdmndm  rdsln  uddhritya  vargasah  \  chatasrah 
samhitds  chakre  mantrair  manigandh  nva  \  tdsdm  sa  chaturah  sishydn 
updhuya  mahdmatih  \  Ekaiknm  samhitdrn  brahman  ekaikasmai  dadau 
vibhuh  \  Puilaya  sam^itd^  ddydm  bahvrichdkhydm  'tivdcha  ha  \  Vaisam- 
$>dyana-sanjndya  nigaddkhyaih  yajur-ganam  \  sdmndm  Jaiminaye  prdha 
tathd  chhandoga-samhitdm  \  Atharvdngiraslm  ndma  sva-sishdya  Su- 
mantave  \ 

11  Suta  speaks :  '  From  the  aether  of  the  supreme  Brahma's  heart, 
when  he  was  plunged  in  meditation,  there  issued  a  sound,  which  is 


44  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC.,  € 

perceived  [by  the  devout]  when  they  close  their  organs  of  sense.  By 
adoring  this  sound,  devotees  destroy  the  soul's  threefold  taint,  extrinsic, 
inherent,  and  superhuman,43  and  ^-become  exetnp^.  from  future  birth. 
From  this  sound  sprang  the  omkara,  composed  of  three  elements,  self- 
resplendent,  of  imperceptible  origin,  that  which  is  the  emblem  of  tjie  di- 

I 

vine  Brahma,  the  supreme  spirit.  He  it  is  whrfhears  this  sound  (sghota], 
when  the  ears  are  insensible  and  the  visions-inactive,— (this  sphota  or  om- 
kdra]  through  which  speeches  revealed,  and  which  is  manifeeted  in  the 
aether,  from  the  Soul.4.6  This  [omkara]  is  the  sensible  exponent  o*  Brahma, 
the  self-sustained,  the  supreme  spirit;  and  it  is  the  eteYnal  seed  of  the  Ve- 
das,  including  all  the  Mantras  and  Upanishads.  In  this  [omkara']  there 
were,  o  descendant  of  Bhrigu,  three  letters,  A1  and  the  rest,  by  which 
the  three  conditions,  the  [three]  qualities,  the  [three]  names,  the  [three] 
significations,  the  [three]  states47  are  maintained.  From  these  [three 
letters]  the  divine  and  unborn  being  created  the  traditional  system  of 
the  letters  of  the  alphabet,  distinguished  as  inner  (y,  r,  J,  v],  iishmas 
(s,  sh,  s,  h\  vowels,  long  and  short,  and  consonants.  With  this  [al- 
phabet] the  omnipresent  Being,  desiring  to  reveal  the  functions  of  the 
four  classes  of  priests,  [created]  from,  his  four  mouths  the  four  Vedas 
with  the  three  sacred  syllables  (vyahritis)  and  the  omkara.^  These  he 
taught  to  'his  sons,  the  brahmarshis,  skilled  in  sacred  lore ;  and  these 
teachers  of  duty,  in  turn  declared  them  to  their  sons.  The  Yedas  were 
thus  received  by  each  succeeding  generation  of  devout  pupils  from  their 


45  Dravya-kriya-karaka,  which  the  scholiast  interprets  as*  answering  to  adhibhTita, 
adhyatma,  and  adhidaiv(fi    See  the  explanation  of  these  terms  in  Wilson's  Sankhya- 
karika,  pp.  2  and  9. 

46  I  quote  the  scholiast's  explanation  of  this  obscure  verse :  Ko  'sau  paramatma 
tarn   aha   '  srinoti'   iti  \   imam  sphotam  avyaktam  oihkaram   \   natyt  Jtvah  evo  tarn 
srinotu  \  na  ity  aha  \  supta-srotre  karna-pidhanadina  avrittike  'pi  srotre  sati  \  jlvas 
lit  karanadinatvad  na  tada  srota  \  tad-vpalabdhis  tu  tasya  paramatma-dvarika  eva  iti 
bhavah  \  Isvaras  tti  naivam  \  yatah  sunya-drik  sunye'pi  indriya-varge  drik  jnanain 
yasya  \  tathd  hi  supto  yadci  sabdaih  srutva  prabiAldhyate  na  tada  jJvah  srota  llnen- 
driyatvcit  \  ato  yas  tadfi  sabdam  srutva  jlvam  prabodlQyatP sa  yatha  pcramatma  era 
ttdvat  \  ko  'sav  onikaras  tarn  visinashti  sardhena  yena  vag  brihatl  vyajyate  yasya  cha 
hridayakase  atmanah  sakasad  vyaktir  abhivyaktih.  The  word  sphota  will  be  explained 
below,  in  a  future  section. 

47  These  the  scholiast  explains  thus :  Gunah  sattvadayah  \  namani  rig-yajuh-sa- 
mani  \  arthah  bhur-bhuvah-svar-lokah  \  vrittayo  jagrad-adyuh  \ 

49  If  I  have  translated  this  correctly,  tbe  omkara  is  both  the  source  of  the  alphabet, 
'and  the  alphabet  of  the  omTfara  .' 


OF    THE    VEDAS,   HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  45 

x 

predecessors,  and  in  each  of  the  systems  of  four  yugas  were  divided  by 
great  sages  at  the  beginning  of  the  Dvapara.49  The  Brahmarshis,  im- 
pelled by  Achyuta,  who^  resided  in  t>heir  hearts,  divided  the  Vedas,  be- 
ca,use  they  pe,r.c«£ved  that  men  had  declined  in  age}  in  power,  and  in  under- 
standing. In  this  manvantara  also,50  the  divine  and  omnipresent  Being, 
the  author^of  the  aniversej  being 'supplicated  by  Brahma,  Isa  (S'iva),  and 
the  other  guardians  ef  tke  worjd,  to  maintain  righteousness,  became  par- 
tially incarnate  as  fhe  son.  of  Parasara  and,  Satyavati,  and  divided  the 
Veda  into"" /our  parts.  Selecting  aggregates  of  Rich,  Atharvan,  Yajush, 
and  Saman  verses,  and  arranging  them  in  sections  (vargas],  he  formed 
four  sanliitus  (collections)  of  the  hymns,  as  gems  [of  the  same  description 
are  gathered  together  in  separate  heaps].  Having  summoned  four  dis- 
ciples, the  wise  lord  gave  to  Sach  of  them  one  of  these  sanhitas.  To 
Paila  he  declared  the  first  sanhita,  called  that  of  the  Bahvrichas ;  to 
Vaisampayana  the  assemblage  of  Yayush  verses,  called  Nigada ;  to 
Jaimini  the  Chhandoga  collection  of  Saman  verses:  and  to  his  pupil, 
Sumantu,  the  Atharvangirasi." 

The  Bhagavata  Purana,  however,  is  not  consistent  in  the  account 
which  it  gives  of  the  division  of  the  Vedas.  In  a  passage  already 
quoted  in  the  First  Volume  of  this  work,  p.  158,  it  speaks  of  that  division 
as  having  been  the  work  of  the  monarch  Pururavas,  and  as  having 
'  taken  place  in  the  beginning  of  the  Treta  age.  From  the  importance 
of  this  text  I  will  extract  it  here  again  at  greater  length. 

The  celestial  nymph  Urvasi,  the*  Purana  tells  us,  had  been  doomed, 
in  consequence  of  a  curse,  to  take  up  her  abode  upon  earth.     She  there 

9 

49  Dvaparadau  can  only  mean  the  "  beginning  of  the  Dvapara ;  "  but  the  scholiast 
undertakes  by  the  following  process  of  reasoning  to  show  that  it  means  the  end  of  that 
yuga :  Dvaparadau  dvaparam  adir  yasya  tad-antyanisa-lakshanasya  kalasya  \  tasmin 
dvaparante  veda  -  v+bJiaga  -  prasiddheh  S'antanu  -  sama  -  kala  -  Vyasavatara- prasiddhes 
cha  |  vyasta  vibhahtah  \  "Dvaparadau  means  the  period  of  which  the  dvapara  was 
the  beginning,  i.e.  the  time  distinguished  as  tne  concluding  portion  of  that  yuga ; 
since  it  is  notorious  that  the  Vedas  were  divided  at  the  end  of  the  Dvapara,  and  that 
the  incarnation  of  Vyilsa  was  contemporaneous  with  S'antanu.     f7y«s<aA  =  «;^A«A;<aA, 
divided."  *  • 

50  From  this  it  appears  that  hitherto  the  account  had  not  referred  to  the  present 
manvantara.     The  scholiast  remarks :  Evam  samanyato  veda-vibhciga-kramam  uktva 
vaivasvata-manvantare  vis'eshato  nirupayitum  aha  \  "Having  thus  [in  the  preceding 
verses]  generally  described  the  manner  in  which  the  Vedas^  are  divided,  [the  Juthor] 
now  states  [as  follows],  with  the  view  of  determining  particularly  [what  was  done]  in 
the  Vaivasvata  manvantara." 


46  OPINIONS   REGARDING  THE   ORIGIN,   ETC., 

•  « 

4 

fell  in  love  with.  King  Pururavas,  the  report  of  whose  manly  beauty 
had  touched  her  heart,  even  before  she  had  been  banished  from  para- 
dise. After  spending  many  happy,  days  in  the€£ociety  of  her  lover,  she 
forsook  him  in  consequence  of  his  having  infringed  one  6"f  the  conditions 
of  their  cohabitation,  and  Pururavas  was  in  consequence  rendered  very 
miserable-.  He  at  length,  however,  obtained  fa  renewal  of  their  inter- 
course, and  she  finally  recommended  him  to  worship  the  Grandharvas, 
who  would  then  re-unite  hipi'with  her  indissolubly! 

The  Purana  then  .proceeds  (ix.  14,  43  ff.)  :  ,' 

Tasya  saihstuvatas  tushtdh  agnisthdllm  dadur  nrijta  \  Urvaslm  manya- 
mdnas  tarn  so  'budhyata  char  an  vane  \  Sthdllm  nyasya  vane  gatvd  grihdn 
ddhydyato  nisi  \  Tretdydm  sampravrittdydm,  manasi  trayy  avarttata  \ 
Sthdll-sthdnam  gato  'svattham  sami-garlhaih  vilakshya  sah  \  Tena  dve 
aranl  kritvd  Urvasi-loka-kdmyayd  \  JJrvaslm  mantrato  dhydyann  adhard- 
ranim  uttardm  \  Atmdnam  ubhayor  madhye  yat  tat  prajananam  pralhuh  \ 
Tasya,  nirmathandj  jdto  jdtaveddh  vibhdvasuh  \  Trayyd  cha  vidyayd  rdjnd 
pittratve  Icalpitas  trivrit  \  Tenayajata  yajnesam  lhagavantam  adhoksha- 
jam  |  Urvasi-lolcam  anvichhan  sarva-devamayaiii  Harim  \  Ekah  eva  purd 
vedah  pranavah  sarva-vdnmayah  \  Devo  ndrdyano  nanyah  eko  'gnir  varnah 
eva  cha  \  Pururavasa  evdslt  trayl  tretd-mukhe  nripa  \  Agnind  prajayd 
rdjd  lolcam  gdndJiarvam  eyivdn  \ 

"  The  Gandharvas,  gratified  by  his  praises,  gave  him  a  platter  con- 
taining fire.  This  he  [at  first]  supposed  to  be  Urvasi,  but  became 
aware  [of  his  mistake],  as  he  wandtred  in  the  wood.  Having  placed 
the  platter  in  the  forest,  Pururavas  went  home ;  and  as  he  was  medi- 
tating in  the  nigW>  after  the  Treta  age  had  commenced,  the  triple  Yeda 
appeared  before  his  mind.51  Returning  to  the  spot  where  he  had  placed 
the  platter,  he  beheld  an  tisvattha  tree  springing  out  of  a  saml  tree,  and 
formed  from  it  two  pieces  of  wood.  Longing  to  attain  fne  world  where 
TTrvasI  dwelt,  he  imagined  to/  himself,  according  to  the  sacred  text, 
Urvasi  as  the  lower  and  himself  as  the  upper  piece  of  wood,  and  the  place 
of  generation  as  situated  between  the  two.52^  Ag».i  was  produced  from  its 

51  Karma-bodhaham  veda-trayam  pradurabhut  \  "  The  three  Vedas,  expounders  of 
rites,  were  manifested  to  him,"  as  the  scholiast  explains." 

52  Elusion  is  here  made,  to  a  part  of  the  ceremonial  for  kindling  a  particular  sacri- 
ficial fire  ;  one  of  the  formulas  employed  at  which,  as  given  in  the  Vaj.  Sanhita,  5,  2, 
is,  "thou  art  Urvasi"  (JJrvasy  asi),  and  another,  "thou  art  Pururavas"  (fururavuh 


OF  THE   VEDAS,   HELD    BY  INDIAN   AUTHORS.  47 

•  '  > 

friction,  and,  according  to  the  threefold  science  [Veda],  was  under  his 
triple  form,  adopted  by  the  king , as  his  son.  With  this  fire,  seeking  to 
attain  the  heaven  of  Ur,vasT,  he  worshipped  the  divine  Hari,  the  lord  of 
sacrifice,  Adho"kshaja,  formed  of  the  substance  "of  all  the  gods.  There 
was  formerly  but  one  Yeda,  the  sacred  monosyllable  om,  the  essence  of 
all  speech' ;  one  ''god,  Narayana ;  one  Agni,  and  [one]  caste.  From 
Purur^vas  came  the  toiple  yeda  in  the  beginning  of  the  Treta  age. 
Through  Agni,  his  son,«  the  king  attained  the  heaven  of  the  Gan- 
dharvas.'V3  '  ' 

On  the  close  of  this  passage  the  commentator  remarks : 
Nanv  anddir  veda-traya-bodhito  brdhmanddmdm  Indrddy-aneka-deva- 
yajanena  svarga-prdpti-heiuh  karma-mdrgah  katham  sddir  iva  varnyate  \ 
Tatrdha  "  elca  eva"  iti  dvdtihydm  \  Purd  krita-yuge  sarva-vdnmayah 
sarvdsdm  vdchdm  vlja-bhutah  pranavah  eka  eva  vedah  \  Devas  cha  Ntird- 
yanah  eka  eva  \  Agnis  cJia  eka  eva  laukikah  \  Varnas  cha  eka  leva  hamso 
ndma  \  Veda-trayl  tu  Pururavasah  sakdsdd  uslt  ....  Ayam  bhdvah  \ 
krita-yuge  sattva-pradhdndh  prdyasah  sarve  ''pi  dhydna-nishthdh  \  rajah- 
pradhdne  tu  Tretu-yuge  vedddi-vibhagena  karma-mtirgah  pralcato  babhuva 
ity  arthah  \ 

"  How  is  it  that  the  eternal  method  of  works,  which  is  pointed  out 
by  the  three  Vedas,  and  through  which  Brahmans  and  others,  by  wor- 
shipping Indra  and  many  other  gods,  attain  to  paradise,  is  spoken  of 
[in  the  preceding  verses]  as  if  it  had  a  beginning  in  time  ?  He  [the 
author  of  the  Purana]  answers  thio  in  these  two  verses.  Formerly,  i.e.  in 
the  Krita  age,  there  was  only  one  Veda,  the  sacred  monosyllable  om,  the 
essence  of  all  words,  i.e.  that  which  is  the  seed  of  ail  words ;  and  there 

was  only  one  god,  Narayana ;  only  one  fire,  that  for  common  uses ;  and 

-> 

asi},  the  former  denoting  the  lower  (adhararani),  and  the  latter  the  upper,  piece  of 
wood  (uitararani},  by  the  friction  of  which  the  fire  was  to  be  produced.  See  Weber's 
Indische  Studien,  i.  197,  and  note;  Roth's  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  p.  154; 
the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  iii.  4,  1,  22,  and  Katyayana's  S'rauta  Sutras,  v.  1,  28  ff. 
The  commentator  on  the  Vajanasaneyo  Sanhita  explains  the  formula  Urvasy  asi  thus  : 
Talha  Urvasi  fururavo-m tpasya  bhogaya  adhastat  sete  tadvat  tvam  adho  'vasthita 
'si  |  "  As  Urvas'l  lies  under  King  Pururavas  for  sexual  connection,  so  thou  art  placed 
underneath." 

53  This  story  is  also  told  in  a  prose  passage  in  the  Vish.  Pur.  iv.  6.  It  is  there 
stated  that  Pururavas  divided  fire,  which  was  originally  one,  in  a  threefold  jpanner 
(Eko  'gnir  adav  abhavad  Ailena  \u  atra  manvantare  traita? pravarttita).  No  mention, 
however,  is  there  made  of  his  having  divided  the  Vedas,  or  partitioned  society  into 
castes.  > 


48  OPINIONS   REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

i 

; 

only  one  caste,  the  Hansa.  But  the  triple  Veda  came  from  Pururavas. 
....  The  meaning  is  this :  in  the  Krita  age  the  quality  of  goodness 
predominated  in  men,  who  were  almost  all  absorbed  in  meditation.  But 
in  the  Treta  age,  when  'passion  (rajas)  prevailed,  the  method  of  works 
was  manifested  by  the  division  of  the  Yedas."  5i 

This  last  quoted  passage  of  the  Bb.aga.vata  gives,  as  I  have  intimated, 
a  different  account  of  the  division  of  the  Vedasftfrofli  that  contajped  in 
the  other  two  texts  previously  adduced  from  the  same  work,  _and  in  the 
citations  from  the  Vifihhu  and  Vayu  Puranas.  The  one  set  of  passages 
speak  of  the  Veda  as  having  been  divided  by  Vyasa  iato  four  parts  in  the 
Dvapara  age;  while  the  text  last  cited  speaks  of  the  triple  Veda  as  having 
originated  with  Pururavas  in  the  Treta  age  ;  and  evidently  belonged  to 
a  different  tradition  from  the  former  three.  The  legend  which  speaks 
of  three  Vedas  may  possibly  have  a  somewhat  more  ancient  source  than 
that  which  speaks  of  four,  as  it  was  not  till  a  later  date  that  the  Atharva 
asserted  its  right  to  be  ranked  with  the  three  others  as  a  fourth  Veda. 
The  former  tradition,  however,  would  appear  to  have  had  its  origin 
partly  in  etymological  considerations.  The  word  Treta,  though  designat- 
ing the  second  Yuga,  means  a  triad,  and  seems  to  have  been  suggested 
to  the  writer's  mind  by  the  triple  fire  mentioned  in  the  legend. 

Mahabhurata. — The  following  passage  from  the  Mahabharata,  Sfanti- 
parvan  (verses  13,088  ff.),  agrees  partially  in  tenor  with  the  last 
passage  from  the  Bhagavata,  but  is  silent  regarding  Pururavas : 

Idam  krita-yugam  nama  kalah  sr'Jshthah  pravarttitah  \  Aldmsyali 
yajna-pasavo  yuge  'smin  na  tad  anyaiha  \  Chatushnat  sakalo  dharmo  Iha- 
I'isliyaty  atra  rai  surah  \  Tatas  Treta-yugam  nama  trayi  yatra  Uta'vish- 

yati  |  Prokshituh  yajna-pasavo  ladham  prdpsyanti  vai  makhe 55  |  Yatra 

( 

54  This  legend  is  borrowed  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xi.  5r,  1,  1  ff.  (pp.  855- 
858  Weber's  ed.),  where  the  motive  for  its  introduction  is  to  describe  the  process  by 
which  fire  was  generated  by  Pururavas  in  obedience  to  the  command  of  the  Gan- 
dharvas,  as  the  means  of  his  admission  into  their  paradise.     See  Professor  Miiller's 
translation  of  this  story  in  the  Oxford  Essays  for  1856,  p,p.  62,  63,  or  the  reprint  in 
his  Chips  from   a  German  Workshop;  and  the  First  Volume  of  this'  work,  pv226. 
The  legend  is  founded  on  the  95th  hymn  of  the  tenth  book  of  the  Rig-veda. 

55  Manu  (i.  85,  86)  differs  from  this  passage  of  the  Mahabharata  in  making  the 
Dvapara  the  age  of  sacrifice  :  Anye  krilayuge  dharmas  Tretayam  Dvapare  pare  \  Anye 
kaliyugc  nrlnaih  yuga-hrasanurupatah  \  Tapth  parf.m  Kritayuge  Tretayam  jnanam 
ucliyate  \  Lvapare  yajnam  evahur  danam  ekam  kalau  yuge  \  "  Different  duties  are 
practised  by  men  in  the(  Krita  age,  and  different  duties  in  the  Treta,  Dvapara,  and 


OF  THE  VEDAS,  HELD  BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.      49 
> 

pddas  chaturtho  vai  dharmasya  na  lhavishyati  \  Tato  vai  dvdparam  ndma 
misrah  kdlo  hhavishyati  \ 

"  This  present  Krit^  age  is  the  best  of  all  the  yugas ;  in  it  it  will  be 
unlawful  to^ldy  any  animals  for  sacrifice ;  in  this  age  righteousness  shall 
consist  of  all  its  four  portions  and  be  entire.  Then  shall  follow  the 
Treta  age,  in  which  the  triple*  Yeda  shall  come  into  existence,  and 
animals  fit  for  sadrifise  shalj.  be  slaughtered  as  oblations.  In  that  age 
the  fourth  part  of  'righteousness  shall  be*  panting.  Next  shall  succeed 
the  Dva|jara,  a  mixed  period."  '  . 

The  M.  Bh.  (S'antip.  13,475)  relates  that  two  Asuras,  who  beheld 
Brahma  creating  the  Yedas,  suddenly  snatched  them  up  and  ran  off. 
Brahma  laments  their  lees,  exclaiming : 

Vedo  me  paramdm  chakshur  vedo  me  paramam  lalam  |  .  .  .  .  Vedan 
rite  M  kim  kurydm  lokdndm  srishtim  uttamdm  \ 

"  The  Veda  is  my  principal  eye ;  the  Veda  is  my  principal  strength. 
....  What  shall  I  do  without  the  Vedas,  the  most  excellent  creation 
in  the  universe  ?  "  They  were,  however,  recovered  and  restored  to 
Brahma  (verses  13,506  ff.). 

Vishnu  Pur  ana,. — The  following  verse,  Vish.  Pur.  iii.  2,  12,  refers  to 
the  periodical  disappearance  of  the  Vedas : 

Chaturyugante  veddndm  jdyate  kali-viplavah  \  pravarttayanti  tan  etya 
Ihuvi  saptarshayo  divah  \ 

"  At  the  end  of  the  four  ages  (yugas}  the  disappearance  of  the  Vedas, 
incident  to  the  Kali,  takes  placed  The  seven  rishis  come  from  heaven 
to  earth,  and  again  give  them  currency."  (Compare  M.  Bh.  S'antip. 

verse  7660,  which  will  be  quoted  further  on.)        » 

• 

» 

SECT.  VI. — Accounts  in  the  Vishnu  and  Vdyu  Purdnas  of  the  schisms 
leticeen  the  adherents  of  the  Yajur-veda,  Vaisampdyana  and  Ydjna- 
valkya  ;  hostility  of  the  Atharvanas  towards  the  other  Vedas  ;  and  of 

the  Chhandogas  towards  th<?Rig-veda. 
»  * 

The  Vishnu  Purana,  iii.  5,  2  ff.,  gives  the  following  legend  regarding 

Kali  ages,  in  proportion  to  the  decline  in  those  yugas.  Devotion  is  said  to  he  supreme 
in  the  Krita,  knowledge  in  the  Treta,  sacrifice  in  the  Dvlpara,  and  liherality'alone  in 
the  Kali."  See  also  Mahabharata,  S'untiparvan,  verse  8505,  which  agrees  with  Manu. 
Sec  also  the  First  Volume  of  this  work,  pp.  39  ff.  • 


50  OPINIONS   REGARDING   THE    ORIGIN,  ETC., 

the  way  in  which  the  Yajur-veda  came  to  be  divided  into  two  schools, 
the  black  and  the  white  : 

4 

Ydjnavalkyas  tu  tasydbhud  Brahmardta-suto  dyija  \  S'ishyah  parama- 
dharma-jno  guru-vritti-parah  sadd  \  Rishir  y\)  'dya  mahtimgrum  samdj$ 
ndgamishyati  \  Tasya  vai  sapta-rdtram  tu  brahma-hatyd  bhavishyati  \ 
Purvam  eva  muni-ganaih  samayo  'bhut  krito  dvija  \  Vi»isampdyana  ekas 
tu  tarn  vyatikrdntavdms  tadd  \  S'vasrlyam  bdlakam  86  'tha  padd  sprish- 
jam  aghdtayat  \  S'ishydn  dha^sa  "  bhoh  sishydh,brahma-hatydpaham  vra- 
tam  |  Charadhvam  ma.t-*rite  sarve  na  vichtiryyam  idam  tathd  "  I  Athdha 
Ydjncwalkyas  tarn  "  kim  ebhir  bhagavan  dvijaih  \  Klesitair  alpatejobhir  cha- 
risJiye  'ham  idam  vratam  "  |  Tatah  kruddho  guruh  prdha  Ydjnavalkyam 
mahdmatih  \ "Muchyatdm yat  tvayd  'dhltam  matt')  viprdvamanyaka  \Niste- 
j'aso  vadasy  etdn  yas  tvam  brdhmana-pungavdn  \  Tena  sishyena  ndrtho  'sti 
mamdjnd-bhanga-kdrind  "  |  Ydjnavalkyas  tatah prdha  bJiaktau  tat  te  mayo- 
ditam  \  Mamdpy  alam  tvayd  'dhltam  yad  mayd  tad  idam  dvija  \  Ity  uktvd 
rudhirdktdni  sarupdni  yajumshi  sah  \  Chhardayitvd  dadau  tasmai  yayau 
cha  svechhayti  munih  \  yajumshy  atha  visrishtfini  Ydjnavalkyena  vai  dvija  \ 
Jagrihus  tittirlbhutvd  Taittirlyas  tu  te  tatah  \  Brahma-hatyd-vratam 
chlrnam  gurund  choditais  tu  yaih  \  Charakddhvaryavas  te  tu  charandd 
munisattamdh  \  Ydjnavalkyo'tha  Maitreya  prdndydma-pardyanah  \  tush- 
fdva  prayatah  suryam  yajumshy  abhilashams  tatah  |  .  .  .  .  Ity  evam- 
ddibhis  tena  stuyamanah  stavaih  ravih  \  vdji-rupa-dharah  prdha  "vriya- 
tdm "  Hi  "  vdnchhitam  "  |  Ydjnavalkyas  tadd  prdha  pranipatya  divd- 
karam  \  yajumshi  tdni  me  dehi  ydni  stnti  na  me  gurau  \  Evam  ukto  da- 
dau tasmai  yajumshi  bhagavan  ravih  \  aydtaydma-sanjndni  ydni  vetti  na 
tad-guruh  \  Yajumshi  yair  adhltdni  tdni  viprair  dvijottama  \  vdjinas  te 
samdkhydt&h  suryo  'svah  so  'bhavad  yatah  \ 

"  Tajnavalkya,  son  of  iirahmarata,  was  his  [Vaisampayana'sJ  dis- 
ciple, eminently  versed  in  duty,  and  always  attentive  to  h'is  teacher.  An 
agreement  had  formerly  been  m,°de  by  the  Munis  that  any  one  of  their 
number  who  should  fail  to  attend  at  an  assembly  on  Mount  Mem  on 
a  certain  day  should  incur  the  guilt  of  Brahmanicide  during  a  period 
of  seven  nights.  Yaisampayana  was  the  only  person  who  infringed 
this  agreement,  and  he  in  consequence  occasioned  the  death  of  his 
sister's  child  by  touching  it  with  his  foot.  He  then  desired  all  his 
disciples  to  perform  on  'his  behalf  an  expiation  which  should  take  away 
his  guilt,  and  forbade  any  hesitation.  Tajnavalkya  then  said  to  him, 


• 

OF    THE    VEDAS,   HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  51 

i  »  l 

'  Reverend  sir,  what  is  the  necessity  for  these  faint  and  feeble  Brah- 
mins? I  will  perform  the  expiation.'  The  wise  teacher,  incensed, 
replied  to  Yajnavalkya,  'Contemner  of  Brahmans,  give  up  all  that  thou 
hast  learnt  froni  me ;  I  Have  no  need  of  a  disobedient  disciple,  who, 
like  thee,  stigmatizes  these  eminent  Brahmans  as  feeble.'  Yajnavalkya 
rejoined,  '*  It  wafe  from  devotion  [to  thee]  that  I  said  what  I  did ;  but 
I,  too,  have  done  fritlf  thee  ^  here  is  all  that  I  have  learnt  from  thee.' 
Having  spoken,  he  vomked  forth  the  identical  Yajush  texts  tainted 
with  blopd,  and  giving  them  to  his  master,  h'e  .departed  at  his  will.  • 
[The  other  pupilo]  having  then  become  transformed  into  partridges 
(tittiri),  picked  up  the  Yajush  texts,  which  were  given  up  by  Yajna- 
valkya, and  were  thencs  called  Taittiriyas.  And  those  who  by  their 
teacher's  command  had  performed  the  expiation  for  Brahmanicide, 
were  from  this  performance  (charana)  called  Charakadhvaryus.  Yajna- 
valkya then,  who  was  habituated  to  the  exercise  of  suppressing  his 
breath,  devoutly  hymned  the  sun,  desiring  to  obtain  Yajush  texts .... 
[I  pass  over  the  hymn.]  Thus  celebrated  with  these  and  other  praises, 
the  sun  assumed  the  form  of  a  horse,  and  said,  '  Ask  whatever  boon 
thou  desirest.'  Yajnavalkya  then,  bowing  down  before  the  lord  of 
day,  replied,  '  Give  me  such  Yajush  texts  as  my  teacher  does  not  pos- 
sess.' Thus  supplicated,  the  sun  gave  him  the  Yajush  texts  called 
Ayatayama,  which  were  not  known  to  his  master.  Those  by  whom 
these  texts  were  studied  were  called  Vajins,  because  the  sun  (when  he 
gave  them)  assumed  the  shape  offc  horse  (vajin}." 

I  quote  also  the  parallel  text  from  the  Vayu  Purana,  as  it  exhibits 
some  slight  variations  from  the  preceding  (Aufr.  Cat.  p.  55) : 

Kdryam  dsld  rishlndm  cha  kinchid  brdhmana-sattamdh  \  Meru-prish- 
tham  samdsddya  tais  tada  "  'stv "  iti  mantritam  \  Yo  no  'tra  sapta- 
rdtrena  ndgacfthed  dvija-sattamdh  \  sa  kurt/dd  brahma-badhydm  rai 
samayo  nah  pralfirttitali  \  Tatas  te  sa-yandh  sarve  Vaisampdyana-varji- 
tdh  |  Prayayuh  saptardtrena  ya,tra  sandhih  krito  'bhavat  \  Brdhmand- 
ndm  tu  vachyndd  brahma-ladliydm  chakdra  sah  \  S'ishydn  atha  samdniya 
sa  Vaisampdyano>''lravit  \  "  Brahma-ladhydm  charadhvam  vai  mat-krite 
dvijah-sattamdh  \  sarve  yuyam  samdgamya  bruta  me  tad-hitam  vach,ih  "  | 
Ydjnavalkyah  uvdcha  \  Aham  eva  charishydmi  tishthantu  munayas  te  ime  \ 
bdlam  chotthapayishydmi  tapasd  svena  bhdvitah  \  *Evam  uktas  tatah  krud- 
dho  Ydjnavalkyam  athdbravlt  \  uvdcha  "yat  tvaydldhltam  sarram  praty- 

>  T     UNIVERSITY  OF 

ILLINOIS  LIBRARY 


52  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,  ETC., 

arpayasva  me "  |  Evam  uktah  sarupani  yajumshi  pradadau  gwroh  \  ru- 
dhirena  tathti  'ktuni  chliarditvd  brahma-i'ittamah  \  Tatah  sa  dhydnam 
dsthdya  suryam  drddhayad  dvijah.\  " surya  Imhma  yad  uchchhinnam 
kham  gatvd  pratitishthati"  \  Tato  ydni  gatdny  urdvUicm  yajuih&fry 
dditya-mandalam  \  Tdni  tasmai  dadau*tushtah  suryo  vai  Brdhmarataye  \ 
Asva-rupas  cha  mdrttando  Ydjnavalkyaya  dhltnate  \  YajumsJiy  adhlyate 
ydni  brdhmandh  yena  kenachit  (yani  kdnichit  ?)  [  ^aswi-rupdni  (-rupena  ?) 
dattdni  tatas  te  Vdjmo'bhava.n'j6  \  Irahma-hatyci  tu  yais  chlrnu  cfiarandt 
charakdh  smritdh  \  Tfaiiampdyana-sisJiyas  te  chardkdli  samuddj>ritdh  \ 

"  The  rishis  having  a  certain  occasion,  met  on  th®  summit  of  Mount 
Meru,  when,  after  consultation,  they  resolved  and  agreed  together  that 
any  one  of  their  number  who  should  fail  to  attend  there  for  seven 
nights  should  become  involved  in  the  guilt  of  brahmanicide.  They  all  in 
consequence  resorted  to  the  appointed  place  for  seven  nights  along  with 
their  attendants.  Yaisampayana  alone  was  absent,  and  he,  according  to 
the  word  of  the  Brahmans,  committed  brahmanicide.  He  then  as- 
sembled his  disciples,  and  desired  them  to  perform,  on  his  behalf,  an 
expiation  for  his  oifence,  and  to  meet  and  tell  him  what  was  salutary 
for  the  purpose.  Yajnavalkya  then  said,  '  I  myself  will  perform  the 
penance  ;  let  all  these  munis  refrain :  inspired  by  my  own  austere- 
fervour  Irshall  raise  up  the  boy  (whom  thou  hast  slain).'  Incensed  at 
this  speech  of  Yajnavalkya  [Yaisampayana]  said  to  him,  '  Restore  all 
that  thou  hast  learned  (from  me).'  Thus  addressed,  the  sage,  deeply 
versed  in  sacred  lore,  vomited  forth  4?he  identical  Yajush  texts  stained 
with  blood,  and  delivered  them  to  his  teacher.  Plunged  in  meditation, 
the  Brahman  (Yajnavalkya)  then  adored  the  sun,  saying,  '  Sun,  every 
sacred  text  which  disappears  [from  the  earth]  goes  to  the  sky,  and 
there  abides.'  The  sun,  gratified,  and  [appearing]  in  the  form  of  a 
horse,  bestowed  on  Yajnavalkya,  son  of  Brahmarata,  '•&!!  the  Yajush 
texts  which  had  ascended  to  the  solar  region.  As  all  the  Yajush  texts 
which  these  Brahmans  study  were  given  by  him  in  the  form  of  a  horse, 
they  in  consequence  became  Vajins.  And  tht  disciples  of  Yaisam- 
payana, by  whom  the  expiatory  rite  was  accomplished,  were  called 
Charakas,  from  its  accomplishment  (char ana}. "  ^ 

56  If im  indebted  to  Dr.  Hall  for  communicating  to  me  the  various  readings  of  this 
verse  in  the  India  Office  Library  MSS.,  but  some  parts  of  it  seem  to  be  corrupt. 

57  In  a  note  to  p.  461  (4to.  ed.)  of  his  Translation  of  the  Vishnu  Purana,  Prof.  Wilson 


OF    THE   VEDAS,   HELD   BY  INDIAN   AUTHORS.  53 

\ 

It  is  sufficiently  evident  from  the  preceding  legend  that  the  adherents 
of  the  two  different  divisions  of  the  Tajurveda  (the  Taittiriya  or  black, 
and  the  Vajasaneyi  or  white),  must  in  ancient  times  have  regarded  each 
ether  with  feelings  of  the  greatest  hostility — feelings  akin  to  those  with 
which  the  followers  of  the  rival  deities,  Vishnu  and  S'iva,  look  upon 
each  other  in  motlern  days.  On  this  subject  I  translate  a  passage  from 
Professor  "Weber's  History  o£  Indian  Literature,  p.  84  : 

"Whilst  the  theologians  of  the  Rich,  are  called  Bahvrichas,  and 
those  of '.the  Saman  Chhandogas,  the  old  name'fgr  the  divines  of  the  , 
Yajush  is  Adhvaryu  :  and  these  ancient  appellations  are  to  be  found  in 
the  Sanhita  of  the  Black  Yajush  (the  Taittiriya),  and  in  the  Brahmana 
of  the  White  Yajush  (the  S'atapatha  Brahmana).  The  latter  work  ap- 
plies the  term  Adhvaryus  to  its  own  adherents,  whilst  their  opponents 
are  denominated  Charakadhvaryus,  and  are  the  objects  of  censure.  This 
hostility  is  also  exhibited  in  a  passage  of  the  Sanhita  of  the  White 
Yajush,  where  the  Charakacharya,  as  one  of  the  human  sacrifices  to  be 
offered  at  the  Purushamedha,  is  devoted  to  Dushkrita  or  Sin."  58 

In  his  Indische  Studien  (iii.  454)  Professor  Weber  specifies  the  fol- 
lowing passages  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  as  those  in  which  the  Cha- 
rakas,  or  Charakadhvaryus  are  censured,  viz.  iii.  8,  2,  24 ;  iv.  1,  2,  19 ; 
iv.  2,  3,  15 ;  iv.  2,  4,  1 ;  vi.  2,  2,  1,  10;  viii.  1,  3,  7  ;  viii.  7*,  1,  14,  24. 
Of  these  I  quote  one  specimen  (iv.  1,  2,  19) : 

mentions  the  following  legend  illustrative  of  the  effects  of  this  schism.  "  The  Vayu 
and  Matsya  relate,  rather  obscurely,  a  diipute  between  Janamejaya  and  Vais'ampayana, 
in  consequence  of  the  former's  patronage  of  the  Brahmans  of  the  Vajasaneyi  branch 
of  the  Yajur-veda,  in  opposition  to  the  latter,  who  was  the  author  of  the  Black  or 
original  Yajush.  Janamejaya  twice  performed  the  As'vamedha  according  to  the  Vaja- 
saneyi ritual,  and  established  the  Trisarvi,  or  use  of  certain  texts  by  As'maka  and 
others,  by  the  Brahmans  of  Anga,  and  by  those  of  thje  middle  country.  He  perished) 
however,  in  consequence,  being  cursed  by  Vais'ampayana.  Before  their  disagreement, 
Vais'ampayana  related  the  Mahabharata  to  Janamejaya." 

88  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita,  xxx.  18  (p.  846  of  ,Weber's  ed.) :  Dushkritaya  charalca- 
charyyam  |  (charakanam  gurum— Scholiast).  Prof.  Miiller  also  says  (Anc.  Sansk. 
Lit.  p.  350),  "This  name  Charaka  is  used  in  one  of  the  Khilas  (the  passage  just 
quoted)  of  tl^  Vajasaney?  Sanhita  as  a  term  of  reproach.  In  the  30th  Adhyaya  a 
list  of  people  is  given  who  are  to  be  sacrificed  at  the  Purushamedha,  and  among  them 
we  find  the  Charakacharya  as  the  proper  victim  to  be  offered  to  Dushkrita  or  Sin. 
This  passage,  together  with  similar  hostile  expressions  in  the  S'atapatha  Bruhmana, 
were  evidently  dictated  by  a  feeling  of  animosity  against  the  ancient  schools  of  the 
Adhvaryus,  whose  sacred  texts  we  possess  in  the  TaiHiriya-veda,  and  from  whom 
Yajnavalkya  seceded  in  order  to  become  himself  the  founder  of  the  new  Charanas  of 
the  Vajasaneyins."  • 


54  OPINIONS    KEGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

Tdh  u  ha  CharaMh  ndnd  eva  mantrdlhydm  juhvati  "prdnoddnau  vai 
asya  etau  \  ndnd-vlryau  prdnoddnau  kurmah"  iti  vadantah  \  Tadu  tathd 
na  kurydt  \  mohayanti  ha  te  yajamdnasya  prdnoddnau  \  api  id  vai  enam 
tushnim  juhuydt  \  * 

"These  the  Charakas  offer  respectively  with  two  mantras,  saying 
thus :  '  These  are  his  two  breathings,'  and  '  we  thus'make  these  two 
breathings  endowed  with  their  respective  powers/  But  let  no  one 
adopt  this  procedure,  for  they  confound  the  breathings  of  the  wor- 
shipper. Wherefore  Jet  this  libation  be  offered  in  silence."  ' 

But  these  sectarian  jealousies  were  not  confined  to  the  different 
schools  of  the  Yajur-veda ;  the  adherents  of  the  Atharva-veda  seem,  to 
have  evinced  a  similar  spirit  of  hostility  towards  the  followers  of  the 
other  Vedas.  On  this  subject  Professor  Weber  remarks  as  follows  in 
his  Indische  Studien,  i.  296  :  "  A  good  deal  of  animosity  is  generally 
displayed  in  most  of  the  writings  connected  with  the  Atharvan  towards 
the  other  three  Vedas ;  but  the  strongest  expression  is  given  to  this 
feeling  in  the  first  of  the  Atharva  Parisishtas  (Chambers  Coll.  No.  112)." 

He  then  proceeds  to  quote  the  following  passage  from  that  work : 

Hahvricho  hanti  vai  rdshtram,  adhvaryur  ndsayet  sutdn  \  Chhandogo 
dhanam  ndsayet  tasmdd  Atharvano  guruh  \  Ajndndd  vd  pramdddd  vd 
yasya  syda  lahvricho  guruh  \  desa-rdshtra-purdmdtya-ndsas  tasya  na 
samsayah  \  yadi  vd  'dhvaryavam  rdjd  niyunalcti  purohitam  \  Sastrena 
ladhyate  Icshipram  parikshlndrtha-vdhanah  \  yathaiva  pangur  adhvdnam 
apakshl  chdnda-lhojanam  (chdnda-jo  nafohahtY9  I  warn  chhandoga-gurund 
rdjd  vriddhim  na  gachhati  \  purodhd  jalado  yasya  maudo  vd  sydt  kathan- 
chana  \  abddd  dasabhyo  mdselhyo  rdshtra-bhramsam  sa  gachhati  \ 

"A  Bahvricha  (Eig-veda  priest)  will  destroy  a  kingdom;  an  Adh- 
varyu  (Yajur-veda  priest) 'will  destroy  offspring;  and  a  Chhandoga 
(Sama-veda  priest)  will  destroy  wealth ; — hence  an  Atharvana  priest 
is  the  [proper]  spiritual  adviser. «  (The  king)  who,  through  ignorance  or 
mistake,  takes  a  Bahvricha  priest  for  his  guide  will,  without  doubt,  lose 
his  country,  kingdem,  cities,  and  ministers.  Or  if  a  king  ? ppoints  an 
Adhvaryu  priest  to  be  his  domestic  chaplain,  he  forfeits  his  wealth  and 
his  chariots,  and  is  speedily  slain  by  the  sword.  As  a  lame  man  makes 
no  progress  on  a  road,  and  an  egg-born  creature  which  is  without  wings 

59  For  the  ingenious  conjectural  emendation  in  brackets,  I  am  indebted  to  Professor 
Aufrecht.  I  adopt  it  in  my  translation. 


OF    THE    VEIUS,   HELD    BY  INDIAN   AUTHORS.  55 

> 

cannot  soar  into  the  sky,  so  no  king  prospers  who  has  a  Chhandoga  for 
his  teacher.  He  who  has  a  Jalada  or  a  Mauda  for  his  priest,  loses  his 
kingdom  after  a  year  or  ten  months." 

,  "  Thus,'^  continues  Professor  Weber,  "  the  author  of  the  Parisishta 
attacks  the  adherents  of  certain  S'akhas  of  the  Atharva-veda  itself,  for 
such'  are  the  Jaladas  and  the'Maudas,  and  admits  only  a  Bhargava,  a 
Paippalada,  or  a  Sauuaka  to  be  a  properly  qualified  teacher.  He  further 
declares  that  the  A.tharv,a-veda  is  intended  only  for  the  highest  order  of 
priest,  t,he  brahman,  not  for  the  three  other  inferior  sorts." 

The  following  passage  is  then  quoted : 

Aiharva,  srijate  ghoram  adbhutam  samayet  tathd  \  atharvd  rakshate 
yajnam  yajnasya  patir  ^-ngirdh  \  Divydntariksha-bhaumdndm  utpdtdndm 
anekadhd  \  samayitd  brahma-veda-jnas  tdsmdd  dakskinato  Bhriguh  \ 
Brahmd  samayed  nddhvaryur  na  chhandogo  na  bahvrichah  \  rakshdmsi 
rakshati  brahmd  brahmd  tasmdd  atharva-vit  \ 

''The  Atharva  priest  creates  horrors,  and  he  also  allays  alarming 
occurrences ;  he  protects  the  sacrifice,  of  which  Angiras  is  the  lord. 
He  who  is  skilled  in  the  Brahma-veda  (the  Atharva)  can  allay  manifold 
portents,  celestial,  aerial,  and  terrestial;  wherefore  the  Bhrigu  [is  to 
be  placed]  on  the  right  hand.  It  is  the  brahman,  and  not  the  adh- 
varyu,  the  chhandoga,  or  the  bahvricha,  who  can  allay  [portents]  ;  the 
brahman  wards  off  Rakshases,  wherefore  the  brahman  is  he  who  knows 
the  Atharvan." 

I  subjoin  another  extract  from  Professor  Weber's  Indische  Studien, 
i.  63  if.,  which  illustrates  the  relation  of  the  Sama-veda  to  the  Rig- 
veda,60  as  well  as  the  mutual  hostility  of  the  different  schools:  "To 
understand  the  relation  of  the  Sama-veda  to  the  Rig-veda,  we  have 
only  to  form  to  ourselves  a  clear  and  distinct  idea  of  the  manner  in 
which  these'hymns  in  general  arose,  how  they  were  then  carried  to  a 
distance  by  those  tribes  which  emigrated  onward,  and  how  they  were 
by  them  regarded  as  sacred,  whilst  in  their  original  home,  they  were 
either — a^s  living  ir\  the  immediate  consciousness  ,of  the  people — sub- 
jected to  modifications  corresponding  to  the  lapse  of  time,  or  made  way 
for  new  hymns  by  which  they  were  pushed  aside,  and  so  became  for- 
gotten. It  is  a  foreign  country  which  first  surrounds  familiar  things 
with  a  sacred  charm ;  emigrants  continue  to  sccupy  their  ancient  men- 
60  See  the  Second  Volume  of  this  work,  pp.  202  f. 


56  OPINIONS    KEGAKDING    THE    ORIGIN,    ETC. 

tal  position,  preserving  what  is  old  with  painful  exactness,  while  at 
home  life  opens  out  for  itself  new  paths.  New  emigrants  follow  those 
who  had  first  left  their  home,  and  unite  with  those  who  are  already 
settlers  in  a  new  country  And  now  the  old  and  the  ne  w  hymns  and 
usages  are  fused  into  one  mass,  and  are  faithfully,  but  uncritically, 
learned  and  imbibed  by  travelling  pupils  from  different  masters; — 
several  stories  in  the  Brihad  Aranyaka  are  especially  instructive  on 
this  point,  see  Ind.  Stud.  p.  83 , — so  that  a  varied  intermixture  arises. 
Others  again,  more  learned,  then  strive  to  introduce  arrangement,  to 
bring  together  what  is  homogeneous,  to  separate  what  is  distinct ;  and 
in  this  way  theological  intolerance  springs  up ;  without  which  the 
rigid  formation  of  a  text  or  a  canon  is  impossible.  The  influence  of 
courts  on  this  process  is  not  to  be  overlooked ;  as,  for  example,  in  the 
case  of  Janaka,  King  of  Yideha,  who  in  Yajnavalkya  had  found  his 
Homer.  Anything  approaching  to  a  clear  insight  into  the  reciprocal 
relations  of  the  different  schools  will  in  vain  be  sought  either  from  the 
Puranas  or  the  Charanavyuha,  and  can  only  be  attained  by  comparing 
the  teachers  named  in  the  different  Brahmanas  and  Sutras,  partly  with 
each  other  and  partly  with  the  text  of  Panini  and  the  ganapatha  and 
commentary  connected  therewith  (for  the  correction  of  which  a  thorough 
examination,  of  Patanjali  would  offer  the  only  sufficient  guarantee). 
For  the  rest,  the  relation  between  the  S.V.  and  the  R.V.  is  in  a  certain 
degree  analogous  to  that  between  the  "White  and  the  Black  Yajush ; 
and,  as  in  the  Brahmana  of  the  former, ,  (the  S'atapatha  Brahmana),  we 
often  find  those  teachers  who  are  the  representatives  of  the  latter,  men- 
tioned with  contempt,  it  cannot  surprise  us,  if  in  the  Brahmana  of  the 
Sama-veda,  the  Paingins  and  Kaushitakins  are  similarly  treated." 

It  is  sufficiently  manifest  from  the  preceding  passages  of  the  Puranas 
concerning  the  division  and  different  S'akhas  of  the  YeJas,  that  the 
traditions  which  they  embody  contain  no  information  in  regard  to  the 
composition  of  the  hymns,  and  nothing  tangible  or  authentic  regarding 
the  manner  in  whichcthey  were  preserved,  collected,  />r  arranged.  In  fact, 
I  have  not  adduced  these  passages  for  the  purpose  of  elucidating  those 
points,  but  to  show  the  legendary  character  of  the  narratives,  and  their 
discrepancies  in  matters  of  detail.  For  an  account  of  the  S'akhas  of  the 
Vedas,  tLe  ancient  schools  of  the  Brahmans,  and  other  matters  of  a 
similar  nature,  I  must  refer  to  the  excellent  work  of  Professor  Miiller, 


OF    THE    VERAS,   HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  57 

•  •  ) 

the  "History  of  Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature,"  pp.  119-132  and  364- 
388  and  elsewhere. 


'  SECT.  YIP. — Reasonings  of  the  Commentators  on  the  Vedas,  in  support 

,      t  of  the  authority  of  the  Vedas. 

»  > 

I  proceed  now  to  adduce*  some  extracts  from  the  works  of  the  more 
systematic  authors  who  have  .treated  of  tie  origin  and  authority  of  the 
Vedas,  ]»  mean  the  commentators  on  these  book's  themselves,  and  the* 
authors  and  expositors  of  the  aphorisms  of  several  of  the  schools  of 
Hindu  philosophy.61  Whatever  we  may  think  of  the  premises  from 
which  these  writers  set  but,  or  of  the  conclusions  at  which  they  arrive, 

61  Although  the  authors  of  the  different  schools  of  Hindu  philosophy  (as  we  shall 
see)  expressly  defend  (on  grounds  which  vary  according  to  the  principles  of  the  several 
systems)  the  authority  of  the  Vedas,  they  do  not  consider  themselves  as  at  all  bound  to 
assert  that  the  different  portions  of  those  works  are  all  of  equal  value  :  nor  do  they 
treat  their  sacred  scriptures  as  the  exclusive  sources  out  of  which  their  own  theology 
or  philosophy  are  to  be  evolved.  On  the  relation  of  Indian  thinkers  generally  to  the 
Vedas,  I  quote  some  remarks  from  an  article  of  my  own  in  the  Journal  of  the  Royal 
Asiatic  Society  for  1862,  pp.  310 f.  :  "It  is  evident  from  some  of  the  hymns  of  the 
Veda  (see  Miiller's  Hist,  of  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  p.  556  ff.)  that  theological  speculation  has 

been  practised  in  India  from  a  very  early  period As,  therefore^  the  religious 

or  mythological  systems  of  India  became  developed,  it  was  to  be  expected  that  they 
should  exhibit  numerous  variations  springing  out  of  the  particular  genius  of  different 
writers ;  and  more  especially  that,  whenever  the  speculative  element  predominated  in 
any  author,  he  should  give  utterance  to  ideas  on  the  origin  of  the  world,  and  the 
nature  and  action  of  the  \Deity  or  deities,  more  or  less  opposed  to  those  commonly 
received.  In  the  stage  here  supposed,  a  fixed  and  authoritative  system  of  belief  or 
institutions  had  not  yet  been  constructed,  but  was  only  in  process  of  construction,  and 
therefore  considerable  liberty  of  individual  thought,  expression,  and  action  would  be 
allowed ;  as  is,  indeed,  also  shown  by  the  existence  of  different  schools  of  Brahmans, 
not  merely  attached  to  one  or  other  of  the  particular  Vedas,  but  even  restricting  their 
allegiance  to  sonJe  particular  recension  of  one  of  the  Vedas.  Even  after  the  Brahmanical 
system  had  been  more  firmly  established,  and  its  details  more  minutely  prescribed,  it 
is  clear  that  the  same  strictness  was  not  extended  to  speculation,  but  that  if  a  Brahman 
was  only  an  observer  of  the  established  ceremonial,  and  an  assertor  of  the  privileges 
of  his  own  order,  he  mighj;  entertain  and  even  profess  almost  any  philosophical  opinion 
which  he  p?eased  (Colebrooke,  Misc.  Ess.  i.  379;  Miiller,  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  79).  In 
this  way  the  tradition  of  free  thought  was  preserved,  and  speculative  principles  of 
every  character  continued  to  be  maintained  and  taught  without  hindrance  or  scandal. 
Meanwhile  the  authority  of  the  Vedas  had  come  to  be  generally  regarded  as  para- 
mount and  divine,  but  so  long  as  this  authority  was  nominally  acknowledged,  inde- 
pendent thinkers  were  permitted  to  propound  a  variety  of  speculative  principles,  at 
variance  with  their  general  tenor,  though  perhaps  not  inconsistent  with  some  isolated 


58  OPINIONS    KEGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,    ETC., 

we  cannot  fail  to  be  struck  with  the  contrast  which  their  speculations 
exhibit  to  the  loose  and  mystical  ideas  of  the  Puranas  and  Upanishads, 
or  to  admire  the  acuteness  of  their  reasoning,  the  logical  precision  with 
which  their  arguments  are  presented,  and  the'  occasional  liveliness  and 
ingenuity  of  their  illustrations. 

I. — The  first  passage  which  I  shall  adduce  is  from  "Sayan a' s  intro- 
duction to  his  commentary  on  the   Big-^eda,  the  Vedarthaprakasa, 
pp.  3  ff.  (Sayana,  as  we  have  seen  in  the  Second  Volume  of  this  work, 
<p.  172,  lived  in  the  I4th  century,  A.D.)  : 

Nanu  Vedah  eva  tdvad  ndsti  \  kutas  tad-avdntara-viseshah  rigvedah  \ 
Tathd  hi  \  ko  ''yam  vedo  ndma  \  na  hi  tatra  lakshanam  pramdnam  vd  'sti  \ 
nacha  tad-ulhaya-vyatirekena  kinchid  vastu  prasidhyati  \  Lakshana-pra- 
mdndbhydih  hi  vastu-siddhir  iti  nydya-viddm  matam  \  "  PratyaJcshdnu- 
mdndgameshu  pramdna-visesheshv  antimo  Vedah  iti  tallakshanam"  iti  chet  \ 
na  |  Manv-ddi-smritishv  ativydpteh  \  Samaya-balena  samyak  parokshd- 
nubhava-sddhanam  ity  etasya  dgama-lakshanasya  tusv  api  sadbhdvdt  \ 
"  apaurusheyatve  sati  iti  viieshanaA  adoshah"  iti  chet  \  na  \  Vedasyapi 
paramesvara-nirmitatvena  paurusheyatvdt  \  "  S'arlra-dhari-jiva-nirmitat- 
vdbhdvdd  apaurusheyatvam  "  iti  chet  \  [na~\  \  "  Sahasra-slrshd  purushah" 
ityddi-srutibhir  Isvarasyapi  sarlritvdt  \  "  Karma- phala-rupa- Sarlra- 
dhdri-jlva-nirmitatvdbhdva-mdtrena  apaurusheyatvam  vivakshitam"  iti 
chet  |  na  \  Jlva-viseshair  Agni-  Vdyv-Adityair  veddndm  utpdditatvdt  \ 
"Rigvedah  eva  Agner  ajdyata  Yajurvedo  Vdyoh Sdmavedah  Aditydd"  iti 
sruter  Isvarasya  agny  -  ddi  - prerakatvVna  nirmdtritvam  drashtavyam  \ 
"  mantra-br&hmandtmakah  sabda-rdsir  vedah"  iti  chet  \  na  \  Idriso 
mantrah  \  idrisam  br^hmanam  ity  anayor  adydpi  anirnltatvdt  \  Tasmdd 
ndsti  kinchid  vedasya  lakshanam  \  Ndpi  tat-sadbhdve  pramdnam  pasyd- 
mah  |  "  '  Rigvedam  bhagavo  ''dhyemi  Yajurvedam  Sdmavedam  Atharvanam 
chaturtham '  ityddi  vdkyam  pramdnam  "  iti  chet  \  na  \  tasydpi  vdkyasya 
veddntahpdtitvena  dtmdsrayatva  ~prasangdt  \  Na  khalu  nipuno  'pi  sva- 
skandham  drodhum  prabhaved  iti  \  "  l  Ved^ah  eva  dvydtzndm  nihsreyasa- 
karah  parah  '  iti  ddi  smriti-vdkyam  pramdnam  "  vti  chet  \  np  \  tasydpy 
ukta-sruti-mulatvena  nirdkritatvdt  \  pratyakshddikam  sankitum  apy  ayo- 

portions  of  their  contents.  It  was  only  when  the  authority  of  the  sacred  books  was 
not  merely  tacitly  set  aside  or  undermined,  but  openly'-discarded  and  denied,  and  the 
institutions  founded  on  them  were  abandoned  and  assailed  by  the  Buddhists,  that  the 
orthodox  party  took  the  alarm." 


OF    THE  VEBAS,   HELD    BY   IXDIAN  AUTHOES.  59 

gyam  \  Veda-vishaya  loka-prasiddhih  sarvajariind  'pi  "  riilam  nabhah  " 
ityddi-vad  bhrdntd  \  Tasmdl  lahhana-pramdna-rahitasya  vedasya  sad- 
bhdvo  na  anglkarttym  sakyate  Hi  purva-pafahah  \ 

•  Atra  uchyate  \  mantrd-brdhmantitmakam  tdvad  admhtam  lakshanam  \ 
ata  eva  Apastambo  yajna-paribhdshdyam  evdha  "  mantra-brdhmanayor 
veda-ndmadheyftm  "  iti*]  tayos  tu  rupam  uparishtMd  nirneshyate  \  apau- 
rusheya-vdkyatvafo  iVi  idamtapi  yddrisam  asmdbhir  vivakshitam  tadrisam 
uttaratrq  spashtlbham&kyati  \  pramanut\y  api  yafhoktani  sruti-smriti- 
loka-pr»siddhi-rupani  veda-sadbhdve  drashtavyum  \  Yathu  ghata-patadi* 
dravydndm  sva-prakdsatvdbhdve  'pi  surya-chandrddlndm  sva-prakd&atvam 
avirttdham  tathd  manushyddmdm  sva-skandhdrohdsambhave  'py  akunthita- 
sakter  vedasyci  itara-vastu-pratipadaliatva-vat  sva-pratipddakatvam  apy 
astu  |  Ata  eva  sampraddya-vido  'kunthitdm  saktim  vedasya  darsayanti 
"  chodand  hi  bhutam  bhavishyantam  sukshmam  vyavahitam  viprakrishtam 
ity  evanjdtlyam  artham  saknoty  avagamayitum  "  iti  \  Tatha  sati  veda- 
muldydh  smrites  tad-ulJiaya-muldydh  loka-prasiddhes  cTia  prdrndnyam 
durvdram  \  Tasmdl  lakshana-pramdna-siddho  vedo  na  kendpi  chdrvdkddind 
'podhum  sakyate  iti  sihitam  \ 

Nanv  astu  ndma  Veddkhyah  kaschit  paddrthah  \  tathdpi  ndsau  vyd- 
khydnam  arhati  apramdnatvena  anupayuktatvdt  \  Na  hi  Vedah  pramdnam 
tal-lakshanasya  tatra  duhsampddatvdt  \  tathd  hi  "  samyag  anubhava-sd- 
dhanam  pramdnam  "  iti  kechil  lakshanam  dhuh  \  apare  tu  "  anadhigatdr- 
tha-gantri  pramdnam  "  ity  achakshate  \  na  chaitad  ubhayam  vede  sambha- 
vati  |  mantra-brdhmagdtmako  h?  vedah  \  tatra  mantra hkechidabodhakdh  \ 
"  amyak  sd  te  Indrp  rishtir"  (E.V.  i.  169,  3)  ity  eko  mantrah  \  "Yd- 
drismin  dhdyi  tarn  apasyayd  vidad"  (11.  V.  v.  44,  8)  ity  any  ah  \  "S'rinyd 
ivajarbhan  turpharitu^  (E.Y. x.  106,  6)  ity  aparah  \  " 'Apdnta-manyus 
tripala-prabharmd  "  (R.V.  x.  89,  5)  ity-ddayah  uddhdrydh  \  na  hy  etair 
mantraih  kaschid  apy  artho  'vabudhyate  \  eteshv  anubhavo  eva  yadd  ndsti 
tadd  tat-samyaktvam  tadlya-sddhanatvam  cha  durdpetam  \  "  Adhah  svid 
dsld  "  (R.Y.  x.  129,  5)  iti  maqtrasya  bodhakatve  'pi  "  sthdnur  vd  purusho 
va"  ityadi-vdkya-'Jat  sandigdhdrtha-bodhakatvdd*ndsti  prdmdnyam  \ 
"  Oshadhe  trdyasva  enarn"  (Taitt.  Sanh.  i.  2,  1,  1)  iti  mantro  darbha- 
vishayah  \  "Svadhite  md  enam  himsir  "  (Taitt.  Sanh.  i.  2, 1,  1)  iti  kshura- 
vishayah  \  "Srinota  grdvdnak  "  iti  pdshdna-vishayah  \  Eteshv  achetana- 
ndm  darlha-kshura-pdshdndndm  chetana-vat  sambodhanam  sruyate  \  tato 
11  dvau  chandramasdv  "  iti  vdkya-vad  viparltdrtfia-lodhakatvdd  aprdmdn- 


60  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

yam  \  "Ekah  eva  Riidro  na  dvitlyo  'vatasthe"  \  u  sahasrdni  sahasraso  ye 
Rudrah  adhi  bhumydm"62  ity  anayos  tu  mantrayor  " ydvajjlvam  aham 
mauni"  ity  vdlcya-vad  vydghdta-bodhakatvdd  aprdmdnyam  \  "  Apah  un- 
dantu"  (Taitt.  Sanh.  i.  2,  1,  1)  iti  mantro  yajamtina&ya  'kshaura-kdle 
jalena  6irasah  kledanam  brute  \  "S'ubhike  sirah  droJia  sobhayantl  mukliam 
mama"  iti  mantro  vivdha-kdle  mangalucharandrtJeam  pustipa-nirmitdydh 
subhiMydh  vara-badhvoh  sirasy  avasthdnam  brute  \rfaybs  cha  mantrayor 
loka-prasiddharthdnuvdditvad  agiadhigatdrtha-ganiritvam  ndsti  |_  tasmdd 
mantra-bhdgo  na  pramdgatn  \ 

Atra  uchyate  \  "Amyag"-ddi-mantrdndm  artJio  Ydskena  niruTcta- 
granthe  'vabodhitah  \  tat-parichaya-rahitdndm  anavabodho  na  mantrdndm 
dosham  avaJiati  \  Ata  eva  atra  lolca-nydyam  uddJiaranti  "  na  esTia  sthdnor 
a/par adho  yad  enam  andho  na  pasyati  \  purusMparddho  sambhavati"  iti  \ 
"  Adhah  svid  dsld"  iti  mantras  cha  na  sandeha-prabodhandya  pravrittah 
Icimtarhi  jagat-kdranasya  para-vastuno  'tigambhlratvam  nischetum  eva 
pravrittah  \  tad-artham  eva  hi  guru-sdstra-sampraddya-rahitair  durbo- 
dhyatvam  "  adJfah  svid  "  ity  anaya,  vacho-bhangyd  upanyasyati  \  Sa  eva 
abhiprdyah  uparitaneshu  "ho  addhd  veda"  (E.Y.  x.  129,  6)  ity  ddi- 
mantreshu  spaslitlkritah  \  "  Oshadh^'-ddi  mantreshv  api  chetandh  eva 
tat-tdd-abhimdni-devatds  tena  tena  ndmnd  sambodhyante  \  ids  cha  devatdh 
bhagavatd  Badardyanena  " abhimdni-vyapadesas  tu"  iti  sutre  sutritdh  \ 
Ekasydpi  Rudrasya  sva-mahimnd  sahasra-murtti-svilcdrdd  ndsti  paras- 
param  vydghdtah  \  Jalddi-dravyena  sirah-lcledandder  loka-siddhatve  'pi 
tad-abhimdni-devatdnugrahasya  aprasiddnatvdt  tad-vishayatvena  ajndtdr- 
tha-jndpakatvam  \  tato  lakshana-sadbhdvdd  asti  mantra-bhdgasya  pra- 
mdnyam  \  r, 

"  But,  some  will  say,  there  is  no  such  thing  as  a  Yeda ;  how,  then, 
can  there  be  a  Rig- veda,  forming  a  particular  part  of  it  ?  For  what  is 
this  Yeda  ?  It  has  no  characteristic  sign  or  evidence ;  and  without 
these  two  conditions,  nothing  cart  be  proved  to  exist.  For  logicians 
hold  that  'a  thing  is  established  by  characteristic  signs  and  by  proof.' 
If  you  answer  that  'x>f  the  three  kinds  of  proof,  perception,  inference, 
and  scripture,  the  Yeda  is  the  last,  and  that  this  is  its  sign  ;'  then  the 
objectors  rejoin  that  this  is  not  true,  for  this  sign  extends  too  far,  and 

includes  also  Manu's  and  the  other  Smritis ;  since  there  exists  in  them 
*r  1 

62  The  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita,  xvi.  53,  has,  asankhyata  sahasrani  ye  Rudrah  adhi 
bhumyam  \  n 


I 

OF  THE   YEP  AS,   HELD  BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  61 

•  •  ) 

also  this  characteristic  of  Scripture,  viz.  that  in  virtue  of  common  con- 
sent it  is  a  perfect  instrument  for  the  discovery  of  what  is  invisible.' 
If  you  proceed,  '  the  Yeda  is  faultless,  in  consequence  of  its  charac- 
teristic thptMt  has  no  person  (purushd)  for»its  author;'63  they  again 
reply,  '  Not  so  ;  for  as  the  Veda  likewise  was  formed  by  Paramesvara 
(God),  it  had  a  person. (puruSha)  for  its  author.'  If  you  rejoin,  '  It  had 
no  person  (puru$ha]£oi[  its  author,  for  it  was  not  made  by  any  embodied 
living  being ; '  [they  refuse 64  to  admii;  this]  on  the  ground  that,  accord- 
ing to'jsuch  Yedic  texts  as  'Purusha  has  a  thousand  heads,'  it  is  clea^r 
that  fsvara  (God)  also  has  a  body.  If  you  urge  that  apaurusheyatva 
('the  having  had  no  personal  author')  means  that  it  was  not  composed 
by  a  living  being  endowed  with  a  body  which  was  the  result  of  works  • 
— the  opponent  denies  this  also,  inasmuch  as  the  Yedas  were  created 
by  particular  living  beings — Agni  (fire),  Yayu  (wind),  and  Aditya  (the 
sun) ;  for  from  the  text  '  the  Big-veda  sprang  from  Agni,  the  Yajur- 
veda  from  Vayu,  and  the  Sama-veda  from  Surya,'  etc.,  it  will  be  seen 
that  Isvara  was  the  maker,  by  inciting  Agni  and  the  others.  If  you 
next  say  that  the  Yeda  is  a  collection  of  words  in  the  form  of  Mantras 
and  Brahmanas,  the  objectors  rejsin,  'Not  so,  for  it  has  never  yet  been 
defined  that  a  Mantra  is  so  and  so,  and  a  Brahmana  so  and  so.'  There 
exists,  therefore,  no  characteristic  mark  of  a  Yeda.  Nor  do  we  see  any 
proof  that  a  Yeda  exists.  If  you  say  that  the  text,  'I  peruse,  reverend 
sir,  the  Rig-veda,  the  Yajur-veda,  the  Sama-veda,  and  the  Atharvana 
as  the  fourth,'  is  a  proof,  the  Antagonist  answers,  'No,  for  as  that  text 
is  part  of  the  Yeda,  the  latter  would  be  open  to  the  objection  of  depending 
•apon  itself;  for  no  one,  be  he  ever  so  clever,  c^n  mount  upon  his  own 
shoulders.'  If  you  again  urge  that  such  texts  of  the  Smriti  as  this, 
'  It  is  the  Yeda  alone  which  is  the  source  of  blessedness  to  twice-born 
men,  and  transcendent,'  are  proofs,  the  objector  rejoins,'  '  Not  so  ;  since 
these  too  must  be  rejected,  as  being;  founded  on  the  same  Yeda.'  The 

63  Or,  the  meaning  of  this  may  be,  "  If  you  urge  that,  as  the  Veda  has  no  personal 
author,  tUere  is — in  consequence  of  this  peculiar  characteristic — no  flaw  (in  the  pro- 
posed definition),  etc." 

64  I  have  translated  this,  as  if  it  there  had  been  (which  there  is  not)  a  negative 
particle  na  in  the  printed  text,  after  the  iti  chef,  as  this  seems  to  me  to  b"e  necessary 
to  the  sense.     I  understand  from  Prof.  Mviller  that  the  negative  particle,is  found  in 
some  of  the  MSS.     [I  am,  however,  informed  by  Prof.  Goldstiicker  that  na  is  often 
omitted,  though  understood,  after  iti  chet.] 


62  OPINIONS  KEGARDING   THE   ORIGIN,  ETC., 

evidence  of  the  senses  and  other  ordinary  sources  of  knowledge  ought 
not  even  to  be  doubted.69  And  common  report  in  reference  to  the 
Veda,  though  universal,  is  erroneous,  like  such  phrases  as  '  the  blue 
sky,'  etc.  Wherefore,  as  the  Veda  is  destitute  of  characteristic  sign 
and  proof,  its  existence  cannot  be  admitted.  Such  is  the  first  side  of 
the  question. 

"  To  this  we  reply :  The  definition  of  the  Veda,  as  3  work  composed 
of  Mantra  and  Brahmana,  is  unobjectionable.  Hence  Apastamba  says 
in  the  Yajnaparibhasha,  ,'the  name  of  Mantra  and  Brahmana  is  Veda.' 
The  nature  of  these  two  things  will  be  settled  hereafter.66  The  sense 
we  attach  to  the  expression  '  consisting  of  sentences  which  had  no  per- 
sonal author '  will  also  be  declared  further  on.  Let  the  proofs  which  have 
been  specified  of  the  existence  of  the  Veda,  viz.  the  Veda  (itself),  the 
Smriti,  and  common  notoriety,  be  duly  weighed.  Although  jars,  cloth, 
and  other  such  [dark]  objects  have  no  inherent  property  of  making  them- 
selves visible,  it  is  no  absurdity  to  speak  of  the  sun,  moon,  and  other 
luminous  bodies,  as  shining  by  their  own  light.  Just  in  the  same  way, 
though  it  is  impossible  for  men  or  any  other  beings  to  mount  on  their  own 
shoulders,  let  the  Veda  through  the  keenness  of  its  power  be  held  to  have 
the  power  of  proving  itself,  as  it  has  of  proving  other  things.67  Hence 
traditionists  <set  forth  this  penetrating  force  of  the  Veda ;  thus,  '  Scrip- 
ture is  able  to  make  known  the  past,  the  future,  the  minute,  the  distant, 
the  remote.'  Such  being  the  case,  the  authority  of  the  Smriti,  which 
is  based  on  the  Veda,  and  that  of  common  notoriety,  which  is  based  on 
both,  is  irresistible.  Wherefore  it  stands  fast  that  the  Veda,  which  is 


85  The  drift  of  this  sentence  does  not  seem  to  me  clear.  From  what  immediately 
follows  it  would  rather  appear  that  *he  evidence  of  the  senses  may  be  doubted.  Can 
the  passage  be  corrupt  ? 

66  See  the  First  Volume  of  this  work,  pp.  2ff.  and  the  Second  Volume,  p.  172. 

67  The  same  thing  had  been  said  befo.e  by  S'ankura  Achiiryya  (who  lived  at  the 
end  of  the  8th  or  beginning  of  the  9th  century,  A.D.    See  Colebrooke's  Misc.  Essays, 
i.  332),  in  his  commentary  on  the  Brahma  Sutras, 'ii.  1,  1 :    Vedasya  hi  nirapeksham 
svarthe  pramanyani  raver  iva  rupa-vishaye  \  purusha-vachasam  tu  mulant&apeksham 
svdrthe  pramanyam  vaktri-smriti-vyavahitaih  cha  iti  viprakarshah  \  "  For  the  Veda 
has  an  independent  authority  in  respect  of  its  own  sense,  as  the  sun  has  of  manifesting 
forms.     The  words  of  men  on  the  other  hand,  have,  as  regards  their  own  sense,  an 
authority  wtiich  is  dependent  upon  another  source  [the  Veda],  and  which  is  separated 
[from  the  authority  of  the  VedaJ  by  the  fact  of  its  author  being  remembered.    Herein 
consists  the  distinction  [between  the  two  kinds  of  authority]." 


OF    THE    VEDAS,  HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  63 

*  •  i 

established  by  characteristic  sign,  and  by  proof,  cannot  be  overturned  by 
the  Charvakas  or  any  other  opponents. 

"But  let  it  be  admitted  that 'there  is  a  thing  called  a  Yeda.  Still, 
the  opponent!  say,'  it  does  not  deserve  explanation,  being  unsuited  for  it, 
since  it  does  not  constitute  proof.  The  Veda,  they  urge,  is  np  proof,  as 
it  is'  difficult  to  show  that  it  -has  any  sign  of  that  character.  Now, 
gome 'define  proof  as,  the  instrument  of  perfect  apprehension;  others 
say,  it  is  that  »which  arrives  at  what  was  not  before  ascertained. 
But  neither  of  these  definitions  can  be  reasonably  applied  to  the  Veda. 
For  the  Veda  consists  of  Mantra  and  Brahmana.  Of  these  mantras 
some  convey  no  meaning.  Thus  one  is  amyak  sd  te  Indra  rishtir,  etc. ; 
another  is  yadrismin,  etc. ;  a  third  is  srinyd  wa,  etc.  The  texts 
dpdntu-manyuh,68  etc.,  and  ethers  may  be  adduced  as  further  examples. 
Now  no  meaning  whatever  is  to  be  perceived  through  these  mantras ; 
and  when  they  do  not  even  convey  an  idea  at  all,  much  less  can  they 
convey  a  perfect  idea,  or  be  instruments  of  apprehension.  Even  if 
the  mantra  adhah  svid  dsld  upari  svid  dsld,  '  was  it  below  or  above  ? ' 
(R.V.  x.  129,  5)  convey  a  meaning,  still,  like  such  sayings  as  'either  a 
post  or  a  man,'  it  conveys  a  dubious  meaning,  and  so  possesses  no  au- 
thority. The  mantra,  '  deliver  him,  o  plant,'  has  for  its  subject  grass. 
Another,  '  do  not  hurt  him,  axe,'  has  for  its  subject  an  &xe  (kshura). 
A  third,  '  hear,  stones,'  has  for  its  subject  stones.  In  these  cases,  grass, 
an  axe,  and  stones,  though  insensible  objects,  are  addressed  in  the  Veda 
as  if  they  were  intelligent.  B^ence  these  passages  have  no  authority, 
because,  like  the  saying,  '  two  moons,'  their  import  is  absurd.  So  also 
the  two  texts,  'there  is  one  Eudra;  no  second  has  existed,'  and  'the 
thousand  Rudras  who  are  over  the  earth,'  involving,  as  they  do,  a  mu- 
tual contradiction  (just  as  if  one  were  to  say,  'I  have  been  silent  all 
my  life '),  cannot  be  authoritative.  The  mantra  dpah  undantu  expresses 
the  wetting  of  the  sacrificer's  head  with  water  at  the  time  of  tonsure ; 
while  the  text  '  subhike,'  etc.  ('  garland,  mount  on  my  head  and  decorate 

my  face')  expresses  the  placing  of  a  garland  formed  of  flowers  on  the 
> 

heads  of  the  bridegroom  and  bride,  by  way  of  blessing,  at  the  time  of 
marriage.     Now,  as  these  two  last  texts  merely  repeat  a  matter  of 

68  See  Nirukta,  v.  12,  and  vi.  15,  and  Roth's  Illustrations.  It  is  not  necessary  for 
my  purpose  to  inquire  whether  the  charge  of  intelligibility  brought  against  these 
different  texts  is  just  or  not. 


64  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,    ETC., 

i  •  l 

common  notoriety,  they  cannot  be  said  to  attain  to  what  was  not  before 
ascertained.  Wherefore  the  Mantra  portion  of  the  Veda  is  destitute  t)f 
authority. 

"  To  this  we  reply,  the  meaning  of  these1  texts,  '  aifiyali?  and  the 
others,  has  been  explained  by  Yaska  in  the  Nirukta.69  The  fact  that 
they  are  not  understood  by  persons  igno'rant  of  that  explanation,  does 
not  prove  any  defect  in  the  mantras.  It  is  customaryto  quote  here  the 
popular  maxim,  '  it  is  not  the  fault  of  the  post  ,that  the  blind  man  does 
(not  see  it;  the  reasonable  thing  to  say  is  that  it  is  the  man's  fault.' 
The  mantra  ' adhah  svid,'  etc.  ('was  it  above  or  below?')  (H.V. x.  129, 
5)  is  not  intended  to  convey  doubt,  but  rather  to  signify  the  extreme 
profundity  of  the  supreme  Essence,  the  cause  of  the  world.  With  this 
view  the  author  intimates  by  this  turn  of  expression  the  difficulty  which 
persons  who  are  not  versed  in  the  deep  Scriptures  have,  in  compre- 
hending such  subjects.  The  same  intention  is  manifested  in  the  fol- 
lowing mantras  ko  addhd  veda,  etc.  (R.V.  x.  129,  6)  ('who  knows? ' 
etc.)  In  the  texts  oshadhe,  etc.  (*o  herb,'  etc.),  the  deities  who  pre- 
side over  these  various  objects  are  addressed  by  these  several  names. 
These  deities  are  referred  to  by  the  venerable  Badarayana  in  the  apho- 
rism alhimdni-vyapadesah.  As  Rudra,  though  only  one,  assumes  by  his 
power  a  thousand  forms,  there  is  no  contradiction  between  the  different 
texts  which  relate  to  him.  And  though  the  moistening,  etc.,  of  the 
head  by  water,  etc.,  is  a  matter  of  common  notoriety,  yet  as  the  good- 
will of  the  deities  who  preside  over  thes-e  objects  is  not  generally  known, 
the  texts  in  question,  by  having  this  for  their  subject,  are  declaratory 
of  what  is  unknown,  Hence  the  Mantra  portion  of  the  Veda,  being 
shown  to  have  a  characteristic  mark,  is  authoritative." 

Sayana  then,  in  p.  11  of 'his  Preface,  proceeds  to  extend  his  argu- 
ment to  the  Brahmanas.  These  are  divisible  into  two  parts,  Precepts 
(vidhi],  and  Explanatory  remarks  (arthavada).  Precepts  again  are  either 
(a)  incitements  to  perform  some  act  in  which  a  man  has  not  yet  engaged 
(apravritta-pravarttfinain),  such  as  are  contained  ir  the  ceremonial  sec- 
tions (Karma-kanda} ;  or  ( V)  revelations  of  something  previously  unknown 
(ajndta-jndpanam\  such  as  are  found  in  the  portions  which  treat  of  sa- 
cred knowledge  or  the  supreme  spirit  (Brahma-kdnda}.  Both  these  parts 

f  r 

69  See  the  Journal  of  the'  Royal  Asiatic  Society  for  1866,  pp.  323,  329,  334,  and 
337. 


OF  THE   VEDAS,  HELD    BY  INDIAN   AUTHORS.  65 

are  objected  to  as  unauthoritative.  The  former  is  said  (1)  to  enjoin 
things  afterwards  declared  to  be  improper ;  and  (2)  to  prescribe  in  some 
texts  things  which,  are.  prohibited  in  others.  Thus  in  the  Aitareya, 
Taittiriya,  rud  other  Brahmanas,  many  injunctions  given  in  other 
places  are  controverted  in  such  phrases  as,  "  This  or  that  must  not  be 
regarded  ;  "  "  This  must*  not  be  done  in  that  way  "  (tat  tad  na  ddrit- 
yam  \  tat  tathd  na  ftdryfyam}.™t  And  again  prescriptions  are  given  which 
are  mutually  contradictory.  Another  objection  is  that  no  result,  such 
as  the  att'ainment  of  paradise,  is  perceived  to  follcnr  the  celebration  of  a 
jyotishtoma  or  other  sacrifice;  whilst  satisfaction  never  fails  to  be  ex- 
perienced immediately  after  eating  (jyotishtomddishv  apy  anushthdnd- 
nantaram  eva  cha  svargadi-phalam  na  upaldbhyate  \  na  hi  bhojandnan- 
taram  tripter  anupalambho  'sti  |).  The  answer  given  to  the  earlier  of 
these  objections  is  that  the  discrepant  injunctions  and  prohibitions  are 
respectively  applicable  to  people  belonging  to  different  S'akhas  or  Vedic 
schools  ;  just  as  things  forbidden  to  a  man  in  one  state  of  life  (dsrama] 
are  permitted  to  one  who  is  in  another.  It  is  thus  the  difference  of  per- 
sons which  gives  rise  to  the  apparent  opposition  between  the  precepts 
(tathd  jarttilddi-vidhir  attra  nindyamdno  'pi  kvachit  sdkhdntare  bhaved  iti 
chet  |  bhavatu  ndma  \  prdmdnyam  api  tach-chhdlchddhydyinam  prati  bha- 
vishyati  \  yathd  grihasthdsrame  nishiddham  api  pardnna-bhojanam  dsra- 
mdntareshu  prdmdnikam  tad-vat  \  anena  nydyena  sarvattra  paraspara- 
viruddhau  vidhi-nishedhau  purusha-bhedena  vyavasthdparilyau  yathd  man- 
treshu  ptitha-bhedah  |).  ,In  the  same  way,  it  is  remarked,  the  different 
S'akhas  adopt  different,  readings  in  the  mantras.  As  regards  the  objection 
raised  to  the  authoritativeness  of  the  revelations  of  'things  hitherto  un- 
known, which  are  made  in  the  Brahma-kanda,  that  they  are  mutually 
contradictory — as  when  the  Aitareyins  say,  Atmd  vaiidam  ekah  eva  agre 
dslt,  "  This  was  in  the  beginning  soul  only  ; "  whilst  the  Taittirlyakas 
on  the  other  hand  affirm,  asad  vai  idam  xgre  dsit,  "  This  was  in  the  be- 
ginning non-existent ;  " — the  answer  is  given  that  it  is  determined  by  a 
particular  aphorism  (waich  is  quoted)71  that  in  the  tatter  passage  the 
word  asat  does  not  mean  absolute  vacuity  or  nothingness,  but  merely  an 

70  Compare  the  quotation  given  above,  p.  54,  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  iv. 
1,  2,  19.  »  ' 

'•Brahma  Sutra,  ii.  1,  7,  appears  to  be  intended;  but  the  text  of  it  as  given  by 
Sayana  does  not  correspond  with  that  in  the  Bibliotheca  Imlica. 

'        5 


66  OPINIONS  REGARDING  THE  ORIGIN,  ETC., 

undeveloped  condition  (.  .  .  .  iti  sutre  Taittiriya-gata-vdkyasya  asach- 
chhabdasya  na  sunya-paratvam  kintv  avyaktdvasthd-paratvam  iti  nirm- 
tam  |).72  Sayana  accordingly  concludes  (p.  19  of  his  Preface)  that  the 
authority  of  the  whole 'Veda  is  proved. 

II. — The  second  passage  which  I  shall  quote  is  from  the  Vedartha- 
prakasa  of  Madhava  Acharyya  on  the  Taittirlya  Yajtir-veda  (p.  1  ff.  in 
the  Bibliotheca  Indica).  Madhava  was  (the  brother  of  Sayana,73  and 
flourished  in  the  middle  of  the  14th  century  (Colebrooke's  Misc.  Ess. 
i.  301) : 

Nanu  ko  'yam  vedo  ndma  Ice  vd  asya  vishaya-prayyana-sambandhddhi- 
Icdrinah  katham  va  tasya  prdmdnyam  \  na  khalv  etasmin  sarvasminn  asati 
vedo  vydkhydna-yogyo  bhavati  \  Atra  uchyate  \  Tshta-prdpty-anishta-pari- 
hdrayor  alaukikam  updyam,  yo  grantho  vedayati  sa  vedah  \  Alaukika-pa- 
dena  pratyakshdnumdne  vydvartyete  \  Anubhuyamdnasya  srak-chandana- 
vanitdder  ishta-prdpti-hetutvam  aushadha-sevdder  anishta-parihara-hetut- 
vam  cha  pratyaksha-siddham  \  Svendnulhavishyamdnasya  purushdntara- 
gatasya  cha  tathdtvam  anumdna-gamyam  \  "Evamtarhilhdvi-janma-gata- 
sukhddikam  anumdna-gamyam"  iti  chet  \  na  \  tad-viseshasya  anavagamdt  \ 
Na  khalu  jyotishtomddir  ishta-prdpti-hetuh  kalanja-lhakshana-varjanddir 
anishta-parihdra-hetur  ity  amum  artham  veda-vyatirekena  anumdna-saJias- 
rendpi  tdrkika-siromanir  apy  asydvagantum  Saknoti  \  Tasmdd  alaukiko- 
pdya-bodhaJco  vedah  iti  lakshanasya  na  ativydptam  \  ata  evoktam  \  "  Pra- 
tyakshendnumityd  vd  yas  tupdyo  na  ludhyate  \  Etam  vindanti  vedena 
tasmdd  vedasya  vedatd  "  iti  \  sa  eva  tipdyo  vedasya  vishayah  \  tad-lodhah 
eva  prayojanam  \  tad-bodhdrthl  cha  adhikdri  \  tena  saha  upakdryyopaltd- 
raka-lhdvah  sambaKdhah  \  nanu  "  evam  sati  strl-sudra-sahitdh  sarve  vedd- 
dhikdrinah  syur  l  isJitam  me  sydd  anishtam  md  bhud'  iti  dsishah  sdrvaja- 
nlnatvdt "  \  mawam  \  stri-sudrayoh  saty  updye  bodhdrthitve  hetv-antarena 
vedddhikdrasya  pratiladdhatvdt  \  upanltasya  eva  adJiyayanddhikdram 

72  Compare  with  this  the  passages  quoted  from  the  S'atapatha  and  Taittirlya  Brah- 
manas  in  the  First  Volume  of  this  work,  pp.  19  f.,  24  f.,  27,  f.,  and  from  the  Taitt.  Sanh. 
and  Brah.  in  pp.  52  and  53 ;  and  see  also  the  texts  referred  to  and  commented  upon 
in  the  Journ.  of  the  Roy.  As.  Soc.  for  1864,  p.  72,  and  in  the  No.  for  1865,  pp. 
345-348. 

73  Whether  either  of  these  ;twp  brothers,  who  were  ministers  of  state,  were  the 
actual  writers  of  the  works  which  bear  their  names;  or  whether  the  works  were  com- 
posed by  Pandits  patronized  by  the  two  statesmen,  and  called  after  the  names  o^heir 
patrons,  is  a  point  which  I  need  not  attempt  to  decide. 


OF  THE  VE3AS,  HELD   BY   INDIAN  AUTHORS.  67 

j  , 

bruvat  sdstram  anupanltayoh  strl-sudrayor  vedddhyayanam  anishta-prd/p- 
ti-hetur  iti  bodhayati  \  katham  tarhi  tayos  tad-updydvagamah  \  purdnd- 
dibhir  iti  brumah  \  afy  evoktam  \  ll  strl-sudra-dvijabandhundm  trayl  na 
iruti-gocha^d*\  iti Bhdratam  dkhydnam  munind  kripayd  kritam"  (Bhag. 
Pur.  i.  4,  25)  |  iti  \  tasmdd  upanltair  eva  traivarnikair  vedasya  sam- 
bandhah  \  tat-j)rdmdny>am  tu  'bodhakatvdt  svatah  eva  siddham  \  pauru- 
sheya-vdlcyam  tu  dodljakam  api  sat  purusha-gata-bhrdnti-mulatva-sam- 
bhdvanayd  tat-pafihardya  mula-pramdnatty  apekshate  na  tu  vedah  \  tasya 
nityatvtya  vaktri -  dosha  -  sankdnudaydt  |  .  .  .  '.  JVanu  vedo  'pi  Kdlidti-> 
sddi-vdkya-vat  paurusheyah  eva  BraJima-kdryyatva-sravandt  \  "richah 
sdmdni  jajnire  \  chhanddmsi  jajnire  tasmdd  yajus  tasmdd  ajdyata  "  iti 
sruteh  \  ata  eva Bddardyynah (i.  1,  3)  "  sdstra-yonitvdd  "  iti sutrena Erah- 
mano  veda-kdranatvam  avocrlat  \  maivam  \  sruti-smritibhydm  nityatvdva- 
gamdt  \  " vdchd  Virupa  nityayd"  (R.Y.  viii.  64,  6)  iti  sruteh  |" anddi- 
mdhand  nityd  vdg  utsrishtd  svayambhuvd  "  iti  smrites  cha  \  Sddard- 
yano  'pi  devatddhikarane  sutraydmdsa  (i.  3,  29)  "  ata  eva  cha  nityatoam  " 
iti  |  tarhi  " paraspara-virodhah  "  iti  chet  \  na  \  nityatvasya  vydvahdri- 
katvdt  |  srishter  urdhvam  samhdrdt  purvam  vyavahdra-kdlas  tasmin  ut- 
patti-vindsddarsandt  \  kdldkdsddayo  yathd  nitydh  evam  vedo  'pi  vyavahd- 
ra-kdle  Kdlidd&ddi-vdkya-vat  purusha-virachitatvdlhdvdd  nityah  \  ddi- 
srishtau  tu  kdldkdsddi-vad  eva  Brahmanah  sakdsdd  vedotpattir  dmnd- 
yate  \  ato  vishaya-bheddd  na  paraspara-virodhah  \  Brahmano  nirdoshat- 
vena  vedasya  vaktri-doshtilhdvdt  svatas-siddham  prdmdnyam  tad-avas- 
tham  \  tasmdl  lakshana-pramdrm-sadbhdvdd  vishaya-prayojana-samban- 
dhddhikdri-sadbhdvdt  prdmdnyasya  susthatvdch  cha  vedo  vydkhydtavyah 
eva  I  i 

"  Now,  some  may  ask,  what  is  this  Veda,  or  what  are  its  subject- 
matter,  its  use,  its  connection,  or  the  persons  who  are  competent  to 
study  it  ?  and  how  is  it  authoritative  ?  For,  in  the  absence  of  all  these 
conditions,  the  Veda  does  not  deserve, to  be  expounded.  I  reply:  the 
book  which  makes  known  (vedayati}  the  supernatural  (lit.  non-secular) 
means  of  ^obtaining  Desirable  objects,  and  getting*  rid  of  undesirable 
objects,  is  the  Veda.  By  the  employment  of  the  word  "  supernatural/' 
[the  ordinary  means  of  information,  viz.]  perception  and  inference;  are 
excluded.  By  perception  it  is  established  that  such  objects  of  sense, 
as  garlands,  sandal-wood*,  and  women  are  caiises  of  gratification,  and 
that  the  use  of  medicines  and  so  forth  is  th§  means  of  getting  rid 


68  OPINIONS   REGARDING  THE   ORIGIN,   ETC., 

of  what  is  undesirable.  And  we  ascertain  by  inference  that  we  shall  in 
future  experience,  and  that  other  men  now  experience,  the  same  results 
(from  these  same  causes).  If  it  be  asked  whether,  then,  the  happiness, 
etc.,  of  a  future  birth  be  not  in  the  same  way  a'scertainable  bf  inference, 
I  reply  that  it  is  not,  because  we  cannot  discover  its  specific  character. 
Not  even  the  most  brilliant  ornament  of  the  logical  school  could,  by 
a  thousand  inferences,  without  the  help  (of  ther  Vtdas,  discover  the 
truths  that  the  jyotishtoma  gnti.  other  sacrifices  are 'the  means  of  at- 
,  taining  happiness,  and  tliat  abstinence  from  intoxicating  drugs ;4  is  the 
means  of  removing  what  is  undesirable.  Thus  it  is  not  too  wide 
a  definition  of  the  Veda  to  say  that  it  is  that  which  indicates  super- 
natural expedients.  Hence,  it  has  been  said\  'men  discover  by  the 
Veda  those  expedients  which  cannot  be  Ascertained  by  perception  or 
inference;  and  this  is  the  characteristic  feature  of  the  Veda.'  These 
expedients,  then,  form  the  subject  of  the  Veda;  [to  teach]  the  know- 
ledge of  them  is  its  use ;  the  person  who  seeks  that  knowledge  is 
the  competent  student;  and  the  connection  of  the  Veda  with  such 
a  student  is  that  of  a  benefactor  with  the  individual  who  is  to  be 
benefitted. 

"  But,  if  such  be  the  case,  it  may  be  said  that  all  persons  whatever, 
including  women  and  S'udras,  must  be  competent  students  of  the  Veda, 
since  the  aspiration  after  good  and  the  deprecation  of  evil  are  common 
to  the  whole  of  mankind.  But  it  is  not  so.  For  though  the  expedient 
exists,  and  women  and  S'udras  are  dtsirous  to  know  it,  they  are  de- 
barred by  another  cause  from  being  competent  students  of  the  Veda. 
The  scripture  (sdstra,}  which  declares  that  those  persons  only  who  have 
been  invested  with  the  sacrificial  cord  are  competent  to  read  the  Veda, 
intimates  thereby  that  the  s'ame  study  would  be  a  cause  of  unhappiness 
to  women  and  S'udras  [who  are  not  so  invested].  How,  then,  are  these 
two  classes  of  persons  to  discover  the  means  of  future  happiness  ?  We 
answer,  from  the  Puranas  and  other  such  works.  Hence  it  has  been 
said,  '  since  the  triple  Veda  may  not  be  heard  bj  women,  S'udras,  and 
degraded  twice-born  men,  the  Mahabharata  was,  in  his  benevolence, 

74  Kalanja-bhakshanam  is  mentioned  in  the  Commentary  on  the  Bhagavata  Purana, 
i.  33,  2ft  In  his  translation  of  the  Kusumanjali,  p.  81,  note,  Professor  Cowell  says : 
"  Some  hold  the  Ealanja  to  be  the  flesh  of  a  deer  killed  by  a  poisoned  arrow — others 
hemp  or  bhang, — others  a  V.ind  of  garlic.  See  Raghunandana's  Ekudas'i  tattva." 


OF    THE   VEDAS,  HELD   BY   INDIAN   AUTHORS.  69 

composed  by  the  Muni.'75    The  Yeda,  therefore,  has  only  a  relation  to 
men  of  the  three  superior  classes  who  have  obtained  investiture. 

"  Then  the  authority  of  the  Yeda  is  self-evident,  from  the  fact  of  its 
communicating  knowledge.  For  though  the  "words  of  men  also  com- 
municate knowledge,  still,  as  they  must  be  conceived  to  participate  in 
the  fallibility  of  their  Authors,  they  require  some  primary  authority  to 
remedy  that  fallibility.  B'jt  such  is  not  the  case  with  the  Veda ;  for 

9  ' 

as  that  bad  no  beginning,  it  ,is  impossible  to  suspect  any  defect  in  the 
utterer.'' ...  •  ' 

"A  doubt  may,'  however,  be  raised  whether  the  Veda  is  not,  like  the 
sentences  of  Kalidasa  and  others,  derived  from  a  personal  being,76  as  it 
proclaims  itself  to  have'been  formed  by  Brahma,  according  to  the  text, 
1  the  Eich  and  Saman  verses,  the  metres,  sprang  from  him  j  from  him 
the  Yajush  was  produced ;' 77  in  consequence  of  which  Badarayana,  in 
the  aphorism78  'since  he  is  the  source  of  the  sastra,'  has  pronounced 
that  Brahma  is  the  cause  of  the  Veda.  But  this  doubt  is  groundless ; 
for  the  eternity  of  the  Veda  has  been  declared  both  by  itself,  in  the 
text,  'with  an  eternal  voice,  o  Virupa,'79  and  by  the  Smriti  in  the 
verse  'an  eternal  voice,  without  beginning  or  end,  was  uttered  by 
the  Self-existent.' 80  Badarayana,  too,  in  his  section  on  the  deities 
(Brahma  Sutras,  i.  3,  29)  has  this  aphorism;  'hence  also  [its]  eternity 
[is  to  be  maintained].'  If  it  be  objected  that  these  statements  of  his 
are  mutually  conflicting,  I  answer,  No.  For  [in  the  passages  where] 
the  word  eternity  is  Applied  to*  the  Vedas,  it  is  to  be  understood  as 
referring  to  the  period  of  action  [or  mundane  existence].  This  period 
is  that  which  commences  with  the  creation,  and  Jasts  till  the  destruc- 
tion of  the  universe,  since,  during  this  interval,  no  worlds  are  seen  to 

75  See  the  quotation  from  the  Bhagavata  Purana,  above,  p.  42. 

76  This  seems  to  he  the  only  way  to  translate  paurusheya,  as  purwha  cannot  here 
mean  a  human  being. 

77  E.V.  x.  90,  9,  quoted  in  the  First  Volume  of  this  work,  p.  10  ;  and  p.  3,  above. 

78  Brahma  Sutras,  i.  1,  3,  p.  7  of»Dr.  Ballantyne's  Aphorisms  of  the  Vedanta. 

79  These  -swords  are  pa;t  of  Rig-veda,  viii,  64,  6 :  Tasmai  tfunam  abhidyave  vacha 
Virupa  nityaya  \  vrishne  chodasva  sushtutim  \  "  Send  forth  praises  to  this  heaven- 
aspiring  and  prolific  Agni,  o  Virupa,  with  an  unceasing  voice  [or  hymn]."   The  word 
nityaya  seems  to  mean  nothing  more  than  "  continual,"  though  in  the  text  I  have 
rendered  it  "eternal,"  as  the  author's  reasoning  requires.     Colebrooke  (Misc.  Ess.  i. 
306),  however,  translates  it  by  "  perpetual."     I  shall  again  quote  and  illustrate  this 
verse  further  on. 

80  This  line,  from  the  M.Bh.  S'antip.  8533,  has  alreadj  been  cited  above,  in  p.  16. 


70  OPINIONS  REGARDING   THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

originate,  or  to  be  destroyed.  Just  as  time  and  asther  (space)  are 
eternal,81  so  also  is  the  Veda  eternal,  because,  during  the  period  of 
mundane  existence,  it  has  not  been  composed  hy  any  person,  as  the 
works  of  Kalidasa  and  others  have  been.83  Nevertheless,  the  Veda,  like 
time  and  ffither,  is  recorded  in  Scripture  to  have  originated  from  Brahma 
at  the  first  creation.  There  is,  therefore,  no  discrepancy  between  the 
two  different  sets  of  passages,  as  they  refe^  to  different  points.  And 
since  Brahma  is  free  from  defect,  the  utterer  of  the  Vecla  is  consequently 
1  free  from  defect ;  and  therefore  a  self-demonstrated  authority  resides  in 
it.  Seeing,  therefore,  that  the  Veda  possess  a  characteristic  mark,  and 
is  supported  by  proof,  and  that  it  has  a  subject,  a  use,  a  relation,  and 
persons  competent  for  its  study,  and,  moreover,  that  its  authority  is 
established,  it  follows  that  it  ought  to  be  interpreted." 


SECT.  VIII. — Arguments  of  the  Mlmdnsakas  and  Vedantim  in  support 
of  the  eternity  and  authority  of  the  Vedas. 

I  shall  now  proceed  to  adduce  some  of  the  reasonings  by  which  the 
authors  of  the  Purva  Mimansa,  and  Vedanta,  aphorisms,  and  their  com- 
mentators, defend  the  doctrine  which,  as  we  have  already  seen,  is  held 
by  some  of  the  Indian  writers,  that  the  Vedas  are  eternal,  as  well  as 
infallible. 

I. — Purva  Mlmdnsd. — I  quote  the  following  texts  of  the  Purva  Mi- 
mansa which  relate  to  this  subject  from  Dr.  Baliantyne's  aphorisms  of 
the  Mimansa,  pp.  8  fjf.83  I  do  not  always  follow  (he  words  of  Dr.  Bal- 
iantyne's translations,  though  I  have  made  free  use  of  their  substance. 
(See  also  Colebrooke's  Misc.  Ess.  i.  306,  or  p.  195  of  Williams  and 
Norgate's  ed.)  The  commentator  introduces  the  subject  «in  the  follow- 
ing way : 

81  Passages  affirming  both  the  eternity  of  the  aether,  and  its  creation,  are  given  in 
the  First  Volume  of  tMs  work,  pp.  130  and  506. 

e2  The  same  subject  is  touched  on  by  Sayana,  at  p.  20  of  the  introductory  portion 
of  his  commentary  on  the  Rigveda.  The  passage  will  be  quoted  at  the  end  of  the 
next  section." 

63  Since  the  1st  edition  of  this  Volume  was  published,  the  Sanskrit  scholar  has 
obtained  easy  access  to  a  more  considerable  portion"  of  the  Mimansa  Sutras  with 
the  commentary  of  S'abara  Svamin  by  the  appearance  of  the  first,  second,  and  part  of 
third,  Adhyayas  in  the  Bibiiotheca  Indica. 


OF   THE   VEDAS,   HELD   BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  71 

j  > 

S'abddrthayor  utpatty-anantaram  purushena  kalpita-sanketdtmaka-sam- 
bandhasya  kalpitatvdt  purmha-kalpita-samlandha-jndndpekshitvdt  sal- 
ddsya  yatJid  pratyaksha-mdnam  suktikddau  satyatvam  vyabhicharati  tathd 
pyrushddhinittfena  sabde  'pi  satyafoa-vyabhichdva-sambhavdt  na  dharme 
cTiodand  pramdnam  iti  purva-pahshe  siddhdntam  aha  \ 

"  Since^  subsequently  to  the  production  of  words  and  the  things 
signified  by  them,->a  connection  of  a  conventional  character  has  been 
established  between  the  two  by  the  will  of  man,  and  since  language 
is  dependent  upon  a  knowledge  of  this  'conventional  connection  de- 
termined by  man,  [it  follows  that]  as  perception  is  liable  to  error  in 
respect  of  mother-of-pearl  and  similar  objects  [by  mistaking  them  for 
silver,  etc.],  so  words  alsf)  may  be  exposed  to  the  risk  of  conveying  unreal 
notions  from  [their  sense]  being  dependent  on  human  will ;  and  con- 
sequently that  the  Vedic  precepts  [which  are  expressed  in  such  words, 
possessing  a  merely  conventional  and  arbitrary  meaning]  cannot  be  au- 
thoritative in  matters  of  duty.  Such  is  an  objection  which  may  be 
urged,  and  in  reply  to  which  the  author  of  the  aphorisms  declares  the 
established  doctrine." 

Then  follows  the  fifth  aphorism  of  the  first  chapter  of  the  first  book 
of  the  Mimansa  :  Autpattikas  tu(&)  £abdasyaw  arthena  sambandhas^  tas- 
ya(®  jndnam(e)  upadeso®  'vyatirekas  cha(s)  arthe  'nupalabdhew  tdt(i]  pramd- 
nam Bddardyanasya  anupekshatvdt  \  which  may  be  paraphrased  as  fol- 
lows :  "  The  connection  of  a  word  with  its  sense  is  coeval  with  the 
origin  of  both.  In  consequence*  of  this  connection  the  words  of  the 
Veda  convey  a  knowledge  of  duty,  and  impart  unerring  instruction  in 
regard  to  matters  imperceptible.  Such  Yedic  injunctions  constitute  the 
proof  of  duty  alleged  by  Badarayana,  author  of  the  Vedanta  Sutras  ; 
for  this  proof  is  independent  of  perception  ahd  all  other  evidence." 

I  subjoin  ihost  of  the  remarks  of  the  scholiast  as  given  by  Dr. 
Ballantyne,  indicating  by  letters  the  yords  of  the  aphorism  to  which 
they  refer : 

(a)  Autpattikah  \  svc$hdvikah  \  nityahitiydvat  \  "Awtpattilia  (original) 
means  natural,  eternal  in  short." 

w  S'aldasya  \  nitya-veda-ghataka-padasya  "  agnihotram  juhuydt  svarga- 
kdmah "  ityddeh  \  "  S'abda  (word)  refers  to  terms  which  form  part  "of 
the  eternal  Yeda,  such  as, ' '  the  man  who  desired  heaven  should  perform 
t'ae  Agnihotra  sacrifice.' " 


72  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,  ETC., 

(c)  Sambandha  (connection),  "  in  the  nature  of  power,"  i.e.  according 
to  Dr.  Ballantyne,  depending  on  the  divine  will  that  such  and  such 
words  should  convey  such  and  such  meanings. 

(d)  Atas  tasya  \  dhtirr.iasya  \  "'Hence'  is  to  be  supplied  before  'this,' 
which  refers  to  'duty.'  " 

(e)  Jndnam  \  air  a  karane  lyut  \  jnapter  yathdrtha-jndnasya  Icaranam  \ 
"  In  the  word  jntina  (knowledge)  the  affix  lyut  has  the  force  of  '  in- 
strument,' '  an  instrument  of  correct  knowledge.'  " 

(f)  Upadesah  \  artha  pratipddanam  \   'k  Instruction,  i.e.  the  ^stablish- 
ment  of  a  fact." 

(gl  AvyatireTcah  \  avyalhichdrl  drisyate  atah  |  "  '  Unerring,'  i.e.  that 
which  is  seen  not  to  deviate  from  the  fact."  . 

to)  Nanu  "  vahnimdn  iti  safida-sravandnantaram  pratyakshena  vahnim 
drishtvd  £abde  pramdtvam  grihndti  iti  lolce  prasiddheh  pratyalcshddltara- 
pramdna-sdpelcshatvdt  sabdasya  sa  Jcatham  dharme  pramanam  ata  aha 
"  anupalabdhe  "  iti  \  anupalabdhe  pratyahshadi-pramanair  ajnute  'rthe  \ 
"  Since  it  is  a  matter  of  notoriety  that  any  one  who  has  heard  the  words 
'  [the  mountain  is]  fiery '  uttered,  and  afterwards  sees  the  fire  with  his 
own  eyes,  is  [only]  then  [thoroughly]  convinced  of  the  authority  of  the 
words,  it  may  be  asked  how  words  which  are  thus  dependent  [for  con- 
firmation *on]  perception  and  other  proofs,  can  themselves  constitute  the 
proof  of  duty  ?  In  reference  to  this,  the  word  anupalabdhe  ('in  regard 
to  matters  imperceptible')  is  introduced.  It  signifies  ' matters  which 
cannot  be  known  by  perception  and  ether  such  proofs.'  " 

(i)  Tat  |  vidhi-ghatita-vdkyam  dharme  pramanam  Bddarayandchdryasya 
sammatam  \  ay  am  tisayah  \  '  parvato  vahnimdn '  iti  doshavat-purusha- 
prayulctam  vdkyam  artham  vyalhicharati  \  atah  prdmdnya-nischaye  praty- 
aTcshddilcam  apeJcshate  \  tarthd  'gnihotram  juhoti  iti  vakyam  kdla-traye 
'py  artham  na  vyalhicharati  \  ata  itara-nirapekshaih  dhar'ihe  pramanam  \ 
"This,  i.e.  a  [Yedic]  sentence  consisting  of  an  injunction,  is  regarded 
by  Badarayana  also  as  proof  of  duty.  The  purport  is  this.  The 
sentence,  '  the  mountain  is  fiery,'  when  uttered  by  a  person  defective 
[in  his  organ  of  vision],  may  deviate  from  the  reality ;  it  therefore 
requires  the  evidence  of  our  senses,  etc.'  to  aid  us  in  determining  its 
sufficiency  as  proof.  Whereas  the  Vedic  sentence  regarding  the  per- 
formance of  the  Agnihctra  sacrifice  can  never  deviate  from  the  truth  in 
any  time,  past,  present,  or  future ;  and  is  therefore  a  proof  of  duty,  in- 
dependently cf  any  other  evidence." 


I 

OF    THE   VEDAS,    HELD    BY    INDIAN    AIJTHOES.  73 

•  .  ^ 

The  commentator  then  proceeds  to  observe  as  follows  :  Purva-sutre 
sabddrthayos  samlandho  nityah  ity  uktam  \  tach  cha  sabda-nityatvddhlnarn 
iti  tat  sisddhayishur  ddau  sabddnityatva-vddi-matam  purva-palcsham  upd- 
^dayati  \  "  InHhe  preceding  apho*rism  it  was  declared  that  the  connection 
of  words  and  their  meanings  [or  the  things  signified  by  them]  is  eternal. 
Des'iring  now  to  prove  that  this  [eternity  of  connection]  is  dependent 
on  tile  eternity  of  words  [or  sound],  he  begins  by  setting  forth  the  first 
side  of  the  question,  ^viz.  the  doctrine  of  those  who  maintain  that 
sound'is  not  eternal."  . 

This  doctrine  js  accordingly  declared  in  the  six  following  aphorisms 
(sutras),  which  I  shall  quote  and  paraphrase,  without  citing,  in  the 
original,  the  accompanying  comments.  These  the  reader  mil  find  in 
Dr.  Ballantyne's  work.  * 

Sutra  6. — Karma  eke  tatra  dar&andt  \  "  Some,  i.e.  the  followers  of 
the  Nyaya  philosophy,  say  that  sound  is  a  product,  because  we  see  that 
it  is  the  result  of  effort,  which  it  would  not  be  if  it  were  eternal." 

Sutra  7. — Asthdndt  \  "That  it  is  not  eternal,  on  account  of  its 
transitoriness,  i.e.  because  after  a  moment  it  ceases  to  be  perceived." 

Sutra  8. — Karoti-salddt  \  "  Because,  we  employ  in  reference  to  it 
the  expression  'making,'  i.e.  we  speak  of  '  making '  a  sound." 

Sutra  9. — Sattvdntare  yaugapadydt  \  "Because  it  is  perceived  by 
different  persons  at  once,  and  is  consequently  in  immediate  contact  with 
the  organs  of  sense  of  those  both  far  and  near,  which  it  could  not  be  if 
it  were  one  and  eternal."  , 

Sutra  10. — Prakriti-vikrityos  cha  \  "Because  sounds  have  both  an 
original  and  a  modified  form ;  as  e.g.  in  the  case  of  dadhi  atra,  which 
is  changed  into  dadhy  atra,  the  original  letter  i  being  altered  into  y  by 
the  rules  of  permutation.  Now,  no  substance  which  undergoes  a 
change  is  eiJernal." 

Sutra  11. —  Vriddhis  cha  Tcartri-lhumnd  'sya  \  "Because  sound  is 
augmented  by  the  number  of  those  who  make  it.  Consequently  the 
opinion  of  the  Mim^nsakas,  who  say  that  sound  js  merely  manifested, 
and  not  created,  by  human  effort,  is  wrong,  since  even  a  thousand 
manifesters  do  not  increase  the  object  which  they  manifest,  as  a  jar  is 
not  made  larger  by  a  thousand  lamps." 

These  objections  agaJnst  the  Mimansaka  theory  that  sounc>  is  mani- 
fested, and  not  created,  by  those  who  utter  it,  are  answered  in  the 
following  Sutras :  ; 


74  OPINIONS    EEGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

i  i  ( 

Sutra  12. — Samam  tu  tatra  darsanam  \  "  But,  according  to  both 
schools,  viz.  that  which  holds  sound  to  be  created,  and  that  which 
regards  it  as  merely  manifested,  the  perception  of  it  is  alike  momen- 
tary. But  of  these  two  views,  the  theory  of  manifestation  i,s  shown  inr 
the  next  aphorism  to  be  the  correct  one." 

Sutra  13. — Satah  param  adarsanam  $shayandgamdt'  \  "The  non- 
perception  at  any  particular  time,  of  sound,  whieh,  in  reality,  perpe- 
tually exists,  arises  from  the  fact"that  the  utterey  of  sound  has  not  come 
into  contact  with  his  object,  i.e.  sound.  $ound  is  eternal,  because  we 
recognise  the  letter  k,  for  instance,  to  be  the  same  sourd  which  we  have 
always  heard,  and  because  it  is  the  simplest  method  of  accounting  for 
the  phenomenon  to  suppose  that  it  is  the  same.,  The  still  atmosphere 
which  interferes  with  the  perception  of  sound,  is  removed  by  the  con- 
junctions and  disjunctions  of  air  issuing  from  a  speaker's  mouth,  and 
thus  sound  (which  always  exists,  though  unperceived)  becomes  per- 
ceptible.84 This  is  the  reply  to  the  objection  of  its  '  transitoriness ' 
(Sutra  7)." 

An  answer  to  Sutra  8  is  given  in 

Sutra  14. — Prayogasya  param  \  "The  word  'making'  sounds, 
merely  means  employing  or  uttering  them." 

The  objection  made  in  Sutra  9  is  answered  in 

Sutra  15. — Aditya-vad  yaugapadyam  \  "One  sound  is  simultane- 
ously heard  by  different  persons,  just  as  one  sun  is  seen  by  them  at  one 
and  the  same  time.  Sound,  like  the  sun,  is  a  vast,  and  not  a  minute 
object,  and  thus  may  be  perceptible  by  different  persons,  though  remote 
from  one  another."  r 

An  answer  to  Sutra  10  is  contained  in 

Sutra  16. —  Varnuntaram  favikdrah  \  "The  letter  y,  which  is  sub- 
stituted for  i  in  the  instance  referred  to  under  Sutra  10,  is 'not  a  modi- 
fication of  i,  but  a  distinct  letter^  Consequently  sound  is  not  modified." 

The  llth  Sutra  is  answered  in 

Sutra  17. — Nada-Jiriddhih para 85 1  "It  is  an  increase  of  '  noise,'  not 

84  "  Sound  is  unobserved,  though  existent,  if  it  reach  not  the  object  (vibrations  of 
air  emitted  from  the  mouth  of  the  speaker  proceed  and  manifest  sound  by  their 
appulse  to  ^ir  at  rest  in  the  space  bounded  by  the  hollow rof  the  ear ;  for  want  of  such 
appulse,  sound,  though  existent,  is  unapprehended)." — Colebrooke,  i.  306. 

85  The  text  as  given  in  the  Bibliotheca  Indica  has  riada-vriddhi-para. 

I 


I 

OF    THE    VEDAS,   HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  75 

of  sound,  that  is  occasioned  by  a  multitude  of  speakers.  The  word  '  noise ' 
refers  to  the  '  conjunctions  and  disjunctions  of  the  air  '  (mentioned  under 
Sutra  13)  which  enter  simultaneously  into  the  hearer's  ear  from  dif- 
fsrent  quarters ;  and  it  is'of  these  that  an  increase  takes  place." 

The  next  following  Sutras  state  the  reasons  which  support  the  Mi- 
mansaka  view  :  •  • 

Sutra  18. — Nityas»tu  sydd  darsanasya  pararthatvat  \  "Sound  must 
be  eternal,  becausfe  its  utterance  is  fitted  to  convey  a  meaning  to  other 
persons/,  If  it  were  not  eternal  [or  abiding]^  it  would  not  continue 
till  the  hearer  had  learned  its  sense,  and  thus  he  would  not  learn  the 
sense,  because  the  cause  had  ceased  to  exist." 

Sutra  19. — Sarvatrajjaugapadyat  \  "Sound  is  eternal,  because  it  is 
in  every  case  correctly  and  uniformly  recognized  by  many  persons 
simultaneously ;  and  it  is  inconceivable  that  they  should  all  at  once  fall 
into  a  mistake." 

When  the  word  go  (cow)  has  been  repeated  ten  times,  the  hearers 
will  say  that  the  word  go  has  been  ten  times  pronounced,  not  that  ten 
words  having  the  sound  of  go  have  been  uttered ;  and  this  fact  also  is 
adduced  as  a  proof  of  the  eternity  of  sound  in 

Sutra  20. — Sankhydbhdvat  \  "  Because  each  sound  is  not  numerically 
different  from  itself  repeated."  « 

Sutra  21. — Anapelcshatvat  \  "Sound  is  eternal,  because  we  have  no 
ground  for  anticipating  its  destruction." 

"  But  it  may  be  urged  that 'sound  is  a  modification  of  air,  since  it 
arises  from  its  conjunctions  (see  Sutra  17),  and  because  the  S'iksha  (or 
Vedanga  treating  of  pronunciation)  says  that  'ajr  arrives  at  the  con- 
dition of  sound ; '  and  as  it  is  thus  produced  from  air,  it  cannot  be 
eternal."  A  reply  to  this  difficulty  is  giv<Bn  in 

Sutra  22.^—Prakhydlhdvdch  cha  yogyasya  \  "  Sound  is  not  a  modi- 
fication of  air,  because,  if  it  were,  the  organ  of  hearing  would  have  no 
appropriate  object  which  it  could  perceive.  No  modification  of  air 
(held  by  #ie  Naiyayikas  to  be  tangible)  could  he  perceived  by  the 
organ  of  hearing,  which  deals  only  with  intangible  sound." 

Sutra  23. — Linga-darsandch  cha  \  "And  the  eternity  of  sound  is 
established  by  the  argument  discoverable  in  the  Vedic  text,  '  with*  an 
eternal  voice,  o  Virupa.'  '(See  above,  p.  69.)  Now,  though  this  Sentence 
had  another  object  in  view,  it,  nevertheless,  declares  the  eternity  of 
language,  and  hence  sound  is  eternal."  > 


76  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

"  But  though  words,  as  well  as  the  connection  of  word  and  sense,  be 
eternal,  it  may  be  objected — as  in  the  following  aphorism — that  a  com- 
mand conveyed  in  the  form  of  a  sentence  is  no  proof  of  duty." 

Sutra  24. —  Utpattau  «vd  rachandh  syur  artrtasya  a-tan-nimittatvdt  \ 
"  Though  there  be  a  natural  connection  between  words  and  their  mean- 
ings, the  connection  between  sentences  and  their  meanings  is  a  facti- 
tious one,  established  by  human  will,  from  these"  meanings  (of  the 
sentences)  not  arising  out  of  the  meanings  of  ,the  words.  The  connec- 
tion of  sentences  with-/  their  meanings  is  not  (like  the  connection  of 
words  with  their  meanings)  one  derived  from  inherent  power  (see 
Sutra  5,  remark  (c),  above,  p.  72),  but  one  devised  by  men  ;  how,  then, 
can  this  connection  afford  a  sufficient  authority  for  duty  ? " 

An  answer  to  this  is  given  in 

Sutra  25. — Tad-lhutdndm  kriydrthena  samdmndyo  'rthasya  tan-nimit- 
tatvdt  |  "  The  various  terms  which  occur  in  every  Yedic  precept  are 
accompanied  by  a  verb ;  and  hence  a  perception  (such  as  we  had  not 
before)  of  the  sense  of  a  sentence  is  derived  from  a  collection  of  words 
containing  a  verb.  A  precept  is  not  comprehended  unless  the  individual 
words  which  make  it  up  are  understood ;  and  the  comprehension  of  the 
meaning  of  a  sentence  is  nothing  else  than  the  comprehension  of  the 
exact  muti^al  relation  of  the  meanings  arising  out  of  each  word." 

Sutra  26. — Loke  sanniyamdt  prayoga-sannikarshah  sydt  \  "As  in 
secular  language  the  application  of  words  is  known,  so  also  in  the 
Yeda  they  convey  an  understood  sensv>,  which  has  been  handed  down 
by  tradition." 

The  author  now  proceeds  in  the  next  following  Sutras  to  state  and 
to  obviate  certain  objections  raised  to  his  dogmas  of  the  eternity  and 
authority  of  the  Vedas. 

Sutra  27. —  Veddms  chaeke  sannikarsham  purusMlchydh '  \  "  Some  (the 
followers  of  the  Nyaya)  declare  the  Vedas  to  be  of  recent  origin,  i.e.  not 
eternal,  because  the  names  of  men  are  applied  to  certain  parts  of  them, 
as  the  Kathaka  and,  Kauthuma."  «., 

This  Sutra,  with  some  of  those  which  follow,  is  quoted  in  Sayana's 
commentary  on  the  B.V.  vol.  i.  pp.  19  and  20.  His  explanation  of  the 
present  Sutra  is  as  follows : 

YathK  Raghuvamsddayah  iddnintands  tathd^veddh  api  \  na  tu  vedtih 
anadayah  \  atah  eva  veda-kartritvena  purushdh  dkhydyante  \  Vaiyusikam 


I 

OF  THE   VEDA£,    HELD   BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  77 

Bhdratam  Valmlkiyam  Rdmdyanam  ity  atra  yathd  Bhdratddi-kartritvena 
Vydsddayah  dkhydyante  tathd  Kdthakdm  Kauthumam  Taittirlyakam  ity 
evam  tat-tad-veda-sdkhd-karttritvena  Kathddlndm  dkhydtatvdt  paurush- 
eiidh  \  Nany,  nitydndm^&a  veddndm  itpddhydya-vat  sampraddya-pra- 
varttakatvena  Kdthakddi  -  sdmdkhyd  sydd  ity  dsankya  yukty  -  antaram 
sutrayati  j ..-.-.  .*kd  tarki  Kdtflakddy  -dkhydyikdydh  gatir  ity  dsankya 
sampraddya-pravaritandt  sd  warn  upapadyate  \ 

"  Some  say,  that  as  the  Raghuvamsa*  etc.,  are  modern,  so  also  are 
the  Vedas,  and  that  the  Vedas  are  not  eternah  ,  Accordingly,  certain  , 
men  are  named  as  the  authors  of  the  Vedas.  Just  as  in  the  case  of  the 
Hahabharata,  which  is  called  Vaiyasika  (composed  by  Vyasa),  and  the 
Ramayana,  which  is  called  Yalmlkiya  (composed  by  Valmiki),  Vyasa 
and  Valmiki  are  indicated  as  "the  authors  of  these  poems ;  so,  too,  Katha, 
Kuthumi,  and  Tittiri  are  shown  to  be  the  authors  of  those  particular 
S'akhas  of  the  Vedas  which  bear  their  names,  viz.  the  Kathaka,  Kau- 
thuma,  and  Taittiriya ;  and  consequently  those  parts  of  the  Vedas  are 
of  human  composition.  After  suggesting  that  the  Vedas,  though  eternal, 
have  received  the  name  of  Kathaka,  etc.,  because  Katha  and  others,  as 
teachers,  handed  them  down ;  he  adduces  another  objection  in  the  next 
Sutra." 

The  explanation  here  indicated  is  accepted  a  little  further  on,  in  the 
remarks  on  one  of  the  following  Sutras:  "What,  then,  is  the  fact  in 
reference  to  the  appellations  Kathaka,  etc.  ?  It  is  proved  to  have  arisen 

from  the  circumstance  that  Ka*a,  etc.,  handed  down  the  Vedas."     I 

« 
proceed  to 

Sutra  IS.—Anitya-darsandch  cha  \  "It  is  also  objected  that  the 
Vedas  cannot  be  eternal,  because  we  observe  that  persons,  who  are  not 
eternal,  but  subject  to  birth  and  death,  are  mentioned  in  them.  Thus 
it  is  said  in  the  Veda  '  Babara  Pravahani  desired,'  '  Kusuruvinda  Aud- 
dalaki  desired.'  N"o\v,  as  the  sentences  of  the  Veda,  in  which  they  are 
mentioned,  could  not  have  existed  before  these  persons  were  born,  it  is 
clear  that  |hese  sentences  had  a  beginning,  and  beirg  thus  non-eternal, 
they  are  proved  to  be  of  human  composition"  (' Babarah  Prdvahanir 
akdmayata '  '  Kusuruvindah  Audddlakir  akdmayata '  ityddi  (vdkydndm  ?) 
vedeshu  darsandt  teshdm  janandt  prdg  imdni  vdkydni  ndsann  iti  sdditvdd 
anityatvam  paurusheyatvdm  cha  siddJiam]. 

These  objections  are  answered  in  the  following  aphorisms  : 


I 
78  OPINIONS    REGARDING   THE    ORIGIN,   ETC. 

Sutra  29. —  Uktam  tu  Sabda-purvatvam  \  "  But  the  priority — eternity 
— of  sound  has  been  declared,  and,  by  consequence,  the  eternity  of  the 
Veda." 

Sutra  30. — Akhyd  pfavachandt  \  "  The  riatnes,  derived.,  from  tho?e 
of  particular  men,  attached  to  certain  parts  of  the  Yedas,  were  given  on 
account  of  their  studying  these  particular  parts'.  Thus- the  portion  read 
by  Katha  was  called  Kdthaka,  etc."  * 

Sutra  31. — Parantu  sruti-sSmdnya-mdtram  ,\  "Arid  names  occurring 
.  in  the  Veda,  which  appear  to  be  those  of  men,  are  appellations;common 
to  other  beings  besides  men."  t 

"  Thus  the  words  Babara  Prdvahani  are  not  the  names  of  a  man,  but 
have  another  meaning.  For  the  particle  pro.  denotes  'pre-eminence,' 
vahana  means  'the  motion  of  sound,'  and  the  letter  i  represents  the 
agent ;  consequently  the  word  prdvahani  signifies  that  '  which  moves 
swiftly,'  and  is  applied  to  the  wind,  which  is  eternal.  Babara  again  is 
a  word  imitating  the  sound  of  the  wind.  Thus  there  is  not  even  a  sem- 
blance of  error  in  the  assertion  that  the  Veda  is  eternal "  (  Tadyapi  Ba- 
barah  Prdvahanir  ity  asti  parantu  srutih  prdvahany  ddi-sabdah  sdmdn- 
yam  \  anydrthasydpi  vdchakam  \  tathd  hi  \  "pra"  ity  asya  utkarshds- 
rayah  \  "vahanah"  saldasya  gatih  \  i-kdrah  Icarttd  \  tathd  cha  utkrishfa- 
gaty-dsray'b  vdyu-parah  \  sa  cha  anddih  \  Babarah  iti  vdyu-sabddnulcara- 
nam  \  iti  na  anupapatti-gandho  'pi  |). 

Before  proceeding  to  the  32nd  Sutra,  I  shall  quote  some  further 
illustrations  of  the  31st,  which  are  t<j  be  found  in  certain  passages  of 
the  Introduction  to  Sayana's  Commentary  on  the  Eig-veda,  where  he 
is  explaining  another  section  of  the  Mimansa  Sutras  (i.  2, 39  ff.). 
The  passages  are  as  follows  (p.  7) : 

Anitya-samyogad  mantrdharthakyam  \  "Mm  ie  Icrinvanti KlTcateshv " 
iti  mantreKlkato  ndma  janapadah  dmndtah  \  Tathd  NaichasdTcham  ndma 
nagaram  Pramagando  ndma  rdjdfity  ete'rthdh  anitydh  dmndtah  \  Tathd 
cha  sati  prdk  Pramaganddd  na  ayam  mantro  bhuta-purvah  iti  gamyate  \ 
And  in  p.  10:  Yed  apy  uktam  Pramagandddy  <  anitydrthq  -  samyogdd 
mantrasya  andditvam  na  sydd  iti  tatrottaram  sutrayati  \  "  Uktas  chd- 
nitya-samyogah  "  iti  \  prathama-pddasya  antimddhikarane  so  ''yam  anitya- 
samyoga-doshah  uktah  parihritah  \  Tathd  hi  \  tatra  purva-pakshe  Vedd- 
ndm  paurusheyatvam  va'ktum  Kdthakam  Kdldpakam  ity-ddi-purusha- 
sambandhdbhidhdnam  hetukritya  " anitya-darsandch  cha''1  iti  hetv-antaram 


I 

OF    THE    VEI]AS,  HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  79 

sutritam  \  "Babarah  prdvdhanir  akdmayata"  ity  anitydndm  Babarddlndm 
arthdndm  darsandt  tatah  purvam  asattvdt  paurusheyo  vedah  iti  tasya 
uttaram  sutritam  " param  tu  sruti-sdmdnya-mdtram"  iti  \  tasya  ayam 
>arthah  \  yyt  *Kdthalidd\-tamdkhydnam  tat  pr&vachana-nimittam  \  yat  tu 
param  Babarddy-anitya-darsanam  tat  sabda-sdmtinya-mdtram  na  tu  tatra 
Babartikhyah  Itaschit  purusho  vivakshitah  \  Icintu  "babara"  iti  sabdam 
Icurvan  vdyur  abhidklyate  \  sa  cha  prdvdhanih  \  prakarshena  vahana- 
sllah  \  Evam  anfatrdpy,  uhanlyam  \  * 

"It* ,1s  objected  that  the  mantras  are  useless4  because  they  are  con- 
nected with  temporal  objects.  Thus  in  the  text,  '  what  are  thy  cows 
doing  among  the  Klkatas  ?  '86  a  country  called  Kikata  is  mentioned,  as 
well  as  a  city  named  Naichasakha,  and  a  king  called  Pramaganda,  all 
of  them  non-eternal  objects.  Such  being  the  case,  it  is  clear  that  this 
text  did  not  exist  before  Pramaganda."  The  answer  to  this  is  given  in 
p.  10 :  To  the  further  objection  that  the  mantras  cannot  be  eternal* 
because  such  temporal  objects  as  Pramaganda,  etc.,  are  referred  to  in 
them,  an  answer  is  given  in  the  following  Sutra :  '  The  connection 
with  non-eternal  objects  has  been  already  explained.'  In  the  last 
section  of  the  first  chapter,  this  very  objection  of  the  hymns  being  con- 
nected with  non-eternal  things  has  been  stated  and  obviated  (see  above, 
Sutras  28-31).  For  in  the  statement  of  objections,  after  it  has  first 
been  suggested  as  a  proof  of  the  human  origin  of  the  Vedas,  that  they 
bear  names,  Kathaka,  Kalapaka,  etc.,  denoting  their  relation  to  men,  a 
further  difficulty  is  stated  in  a^Sutra,  viz.,  that  '  it  is  noticed  that  non- 
eternal  objects  are  mentioned  in  the  Yedas ; '  as,  for  example,  where  it 
is  said  that  '  Babara  Pravahani  desired.'  Now,  as  it  specifies  non- 
eternal  objects  of  this  kind,  the  Yeda,  which  could  not  have  existed 
before  those  objects,  must  be  of  human*composition.  The  answer  to 
this  is  given  in  the  aphorism,  '  any  further  names  are  to  be  understood 
as  common  to  other  things.'  The  mganing  is  this  :  the  names  Kathaka, 
etc.,  are  given  to  the  Vedas  because  they  are  expounded  by  Katha,  etc. ; 
and  the  further  difficulty  arising  from  the  names,of  Babara  and  other 
objects  supposed  to  be  non-eternal,  is  removed  by  such  names  being 
common  to  other  objects  [which  are  eternal  in  their  nature].  Ko 
persons  called  Babara,  etc.,  are  intended  by  those  names,  but  the  wind, 
which  makes  the  sound  babara,  is  so  designated.  And  pravaHani  refers 

86  See  the  First  Volume  of  this  work,  p.  342,  and  the  Second  Volume,  p.  362. 


80  OPINIONS  REGARDING   THE  ORIGIN,   ETC., 

to  the  same  object,  as  it  means  that  which  carries  swiftly.     The  same 
method  of  explanation  is  to  be  applied  in  other  similar  cases." 

I  proceed  to  the  32nd  Sutra.  It  is  asked  ho^r  the  Veda  can  consti- 
tute proof  of  duty  when  It  contains  such  incoherent  nonsense  as  the' 
following:  "  An  old  ox,  in  blanket  and  slippers,  is  standing  at  the  door 
and  singing  benedictions.  A  Brahman  female,  desirous  of  offspring, 
asks,  '  Pray,  o  king,  what  is  the  meaning  of  intercourse  on  the  day  of 
the  new  moon?'  or  the  following:  'the  cows  celebrated  this  sacrifice'" 
(JTanu  "  Jaradgavo  kantbala-padukdlhydm  dvdri  sthito  gayati  manga- 
Idni*"'  |  tarn  Irdhmanl  prichhati  puttra-kdmd  rdjann  amdydm  lalhanasya 
ko'rthah"  \  iti  \  " gdvo  vai  etat,  sattram  dsata"  ity-ddlndm  asamladdha- 
praldpdndm  vede  sattvdt  katham  sa  dharme  prfmunani}.  A  reply  is 
contained  in 

Sutra  32. — Krite  vd  viniyogah  sydt  karmanah  sambandhdt  \  "  The 
passages  to  which  objection  is  taken  may  be  applicable  to  the  duty  to 
be  performed,  from  the  relation  in  which  they  stand  to  the  ceremony  " 
(as  eulogistic  of  it). 

As  a  different  reading  and  interpretation  of  this  Sutra  are  given  by 
Sayana  in  his  commentary,  p.  20,  I  shall  quote  it,  and  the  remarks 
with  which  he  introduces  and  follows  it : 

Nanu  vede  kvachid  evam  sruyate  "  vanaspatayah  satram  dsata  sarpdh 
satram  dsata  "  iti  \  tatra  vanaspatlndm  achetanatvdt  sarpdndih  chetanatve 
'pi  vidyd-rahitatvdd  na  tad-anmhthanam  samlhavati  \  Ato  "Jaradgavo 
gdyati  madrakdm '"  ityddy-unmatta-bdla-vdkya-sadrisatvdt  kenachit  krito 
vedah  ity  dsankya  uttaram  sutrayati  \  "  Krite  cha  aviniyogah  sydt  kar- 
manah samatvdt"  |  Tadi  jyotishtomddi-vdkyam  kenachit  purushena  kri- 
yeta  taddriim  krite  tasmin  vdkye  svarga-sddhanatve  jyotishtomasya  vini- 
yogah na  sydt  \  sddhya-sddhana-lhdvasya  purushena  jndtum  asakyatvdt  \ 
sruyate  tu  viniyogah  \  "jyotishtomena  svarga-kdmo  yajeta  "  iti  \  na  cha 
etat  unmatta-vdkya-sadrisam  laukika-vidhi-vdkya-vad  Ihdvya-karaneti- 
kartavyatd-rupais  trilhir  aihsair  upetdyd^  bhdvandydh  avagamdt  \  loke 
hi  "  bruhmandn  Ihojayed"  iti  vidhau  kim  kena  kathtfm  ity  dkd^kshdydm 

87  In  his  commentary  on  the  following  aphorism  S'abara  Svamin  gives  only  a  part 
of  this  quotation,  consisting  of  the  words  Jaradgavo  gayati  mattakani,  "  An  old  ox 
sings  senseless  words ;  "  and  adds  the  remark :  katham  n5ma  Jaradgavo  gayet,  "How> 
now,  can  an  old  ox  sing  ?  "  We  must  not  therefore  with  the  late  Dr.  Ballantyne  take 
jaradgava,  for  a  proper  name. 


t  OF  THE   VEDAS,    HELD   BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  81 

triptim  uddisya  odanena  dravyena  sdka-supddi-pariveshana-pralcdrena  iti 
yaihd  uchyate  jyotishtoma-vidhdv  api  svargam  uddisya  sotnena  dravyena 
dlJcshaniyddy-angoyakdua-prakdrgna  ity  ukte  Icatham  unmatta  -  vdkya- 
sudrisam  bh&ved  iti  \  vanaspaty-ddi-satra-vdkyam  api  na  tat-sadrisam 
tasyat  satrta-karmano  jyotishtomddind  samatvdt  \  yat-paro  hi  sabdah  sa 
sabddrtfhah  iti  nydya-vidah  dhuh  \  jyotishtomddi-vdlcyasya  vidhdyakatvdd 
anushthdne  tatparyyath  \  vaxaspaty  -  ddi-  satra  -  vdlcyasya  arthavddatvdd 
prasammydm  tdtparyam  1  sd  gha  avidyamdnendpi  liarttufn,  ialcyate  \  ache- 
tandh  avidvdmso  'pi  satram  anushthitavantah  kimpanas  chetandTi  vidvdmso ' 
Irdhmandh  iti  satr'a-stutih  \ 

"  But  it  will  be  objected  that  the  Yeda  contains  such  sentences  as 
this:  'trees  and  serpents  sat  down  at  a  sacrifice.'  Now,  since  trees 
are  insensible,  and  serpents,  though  possessing  sensibility,  are  destitute 
of  knowledge,  it  is  inconceivable  that  either  the  one  or  the  other  should 
celebrate  such  a  ceremony.  Hence,  from  its  resembling  the  silly  talk 
of  madmen  and  children,  as  where  it  says,  '  An  old  ox  sings  songs  (fit 
only  for  the  Madras  ?)'  (see  the  Second  Volume  of  this  work,  pp.  481  ff.), 
the  Veda  must  have  been  composed  by  some  man.  The  answer  to  this 
doubt  is  contained  in  the  following  Sutra  (which  I  can  only  render  by 
a  paraphrase) :  '  If  prescribed  by  mere  human  authority,  no  rite  can 
have  any  efficacy ;  but  such  ceremonies  as  the  jyotishtoma  rest  on  the 
authority  of  the  Veda ;  and  narrative  texts  such  as  that  regarding  the 
trees  and  serpents  have  the  same  intention  as  precepts,  i.e.  to  recom- 
mend sacrifice.'  If  the»sentence  enjoining  the  jyotishtoma  sacrifice  had 
been  composed  by  awy  man  then,  as  the  sentence  was  so  composed, 
the  sacrifice  so  enjoined  would  not  have  been  applicable  as  a  means  of 
attaining  paradise ;  for  no  man  could  know  either  the  end,  or  the  means 
of  accomplishing  it.  But  the  application  in  question  is  prescribed  in 
the  Veda  by  the  words  '  let  him,  who  seeks  paradise,  sacrifice  with  the 
jyotishtoma.'  Now  this  injunction  dfoes  not  resemble  the  talk  of  a 
madman,  since  we  recognize  in«it,  as  in  injunctions  of  a  secular  kind, 
the  contemplation  of  £he  three  characteristics  of  the  action  to  be  per- 
formed, viz.  its  end,  means,  and  mode.  For,  as  when  a  question  is  put 
in  regard  to  the  object  for.  which,  the  instrument  through  which,  and 
the  manner  in  which  the  nrecept,  '  to  feed  Brahmans,'  is  to  be  fulfilled, 
we  are  told  that  the  object  is  to  be  their  satisfaction,  the  instrumental 
substance  boiled  rice,  and  the  manner,  that  it  is*  to  be  served  up  with 

6 


82  OPINIONS    KEGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

vegetables  and  condiments; — in  the  same  way,  in  the  Vedic  injunction 
regarding  the  jyotishtoma,  we  are  told  that  paradise  is  the  object,  that 
soma  is  the  instrumental  substance,  and  that  cthe  Application  of  the 
introductory  and  other  portions  of  the -ritual  is  the  manner.P  And  when 
this  is  so,  how  can  this  precept  be  compared  to  the  talk  of  a  madman  ? 
Nor  does  the  sentence  regarding  trees,  etc., '  celebrating  a  sacrifice, 
admit  of  such  a  comparison,  since  the  sacrifice  in  question  is  similar 
to  the  jyotishtoma  and  other  such  ritesv  For  logicians  sayt  that  the 
>  meaning  of  a  word  is  ,itoe  sense  which  it  is  intended  to  intimate.  The 
purport  of  the  sentence  regarding  the  jyotishtoma,  which  is  of  a  pre- 
ceptive character,  is  to  command  performance.  The  object  of  the  sen- 
tence regarding  trees,  etc.,  attending  at  a  sacrifice,  which  is  of  a  narra- 
tive character,  is  eulogy ;  and  this  can  be  offered  even  by  a  thing 
which  has  no  real  existence.  The  sacrifice  is  eulogized  by  saying  that 
it  was  celebrated  even  by  insensible  trees  and  ignorant  serpents :  how 
much  more,  then,  would  it  be  celebrated  by  Brahmans  possessed  both 
of  sensation  and  knowledge ! " 

The  following  passage  from  the  Nyaya-mala-vistara,  a  treatise  con- 
taining a  summary  of  the  doctrines  of  the  Purva-mimansa  of  Jaimini, 
by  Madhava  Acharyya,  the  brother  of  Sayana  Acharyya  (see  above, 
p.  66)  repeats  some  of  the  same  reasonings  contradicting  the  idea  that 
the  Yeda  had  any  personal  author  (i.  1,  25,  26) : 

Paurusheyam  na  vd  veda  -  vdkyam  sydt  paurusheyatd  \  Kdthakddi- 
samdkhydndd  vdkyatvdch  chdnya-vdkya-vat  \  Samdkhyd  'dhydpakatvena 
vdkyatvam  tu  pardhatam  \  Tatkartr-anupalamlhena,  syat  tato  'paurushe- 
yatd \  Kdthakam  Kauthumam  Taittirlyakam  ityddi  samdkhyd  tat-tad- 
veda-vishayd  loJce  drishtd  \  taddhita  -pratyayas  cha  tena  proktam  ity 
asminn  arthe  varttate  \  tathd  sati  Vyasena  proktam  Vaiyasikam  Bhdra- 
tam  ity-addv  iva  paurusheyatvam  pratlyate  \  kincha  \  vimatam  veda-vdk- 
yam  paurusheyam  \  vdkyatvdt  \  Ktiliddsddi-vakya-vad  iti  prdpte  brumah  \ 
adhyayana-sampraddya-pravarttakatvena  xamdkhyd  upapadyate  \  Edlidd- 
sddi-grantheshu  tai-sargdvasdne  karttdrah  upalalltyante  \  tatk.d  vedasydpi 
paurusheyatve  tat-karttd  upalabhyeta  na  cha  upalabhyate  \  ato  vdkyatva- 
hetuh  pratikula-tarka-pardhatah  \  tasmdd  apaurusJieyo  vedah  \  tathd  sati 
purusha-luddhi-kritasya  aprdmdnyasya  andsankariiyatvdd  vidhi-vdkyasya 
dharme  prdmdnyam  susthitam  \ 88 

88  I  have  extracted  this  passage  from  Prof,  Goldstiicker's  text  of  the  Nyaya-mala- 


I 

OF    THE   VEDAS,   HELD   BY   INDIAN   AUTHORS.  83 

"  [Verses]  '  Is  the  word  of  the  Yeda  derived  from  a  personal  author 
or  not?  It  must  (some  urge). be  so  derived,  since  (1)  it  bears  the 
names  of  Kathaka,  ekb.  and  (2)  has  the  characters  of  a  sentence,  like 

')  '\    *  t 

other  sentences.  No  (we  reply) ;  for  (1)  the  names  arose  from  parti- 
cular^  persons  being  teachers  of  the  Yedas,  and  (2)  the  objection  that 
the  Ye(dic  precepts  have'  the  characters  of  common  sentences  is  refuted 
by  other  consideration^.  The  Veda  can  have  no  personal  author,  since 
it  has  neyer  beenJ  perceived  ,to  have  had  a  maker.'  [Comment]  It  is 
objected!  (1)  that  the  names  Kathaka,  Kauthum*a,'TaittirIyaka,  etc.,  arej 
applied  in  common  usage  to  the  different  Vedas ;  and  the  taddhita  affix 
by  which  these  appellations  are  formed,  denotes  '  uttered  by '  [Katha, 
Kuthumi,  and  Tittiri]/(comp.  Panini,  iv.  3,  101).  Such  being  the 
case,  it  is  clear  that  these  parts  of  the  Vedas  are  derived  from  a  per- 
sonal author,  like  the  Mahabharata,  which  is  styled  Vaiyasika,  because 
it  was  uttered  by  Vyasa,  etc.  And  further  (2),  the  sentences  of  the 
Veda,  being  subject  to  different  interpretations,  must  have  had  a  per- 
sonal author,  because  they  have  the  properties  of  a  sentence,  like  the 
sentences  of  Kalidasa,  etc.  To  this  we  reply  (1),  the  name  applied  to 
any  Veda  originates  in  the  fact  that  the  sage  whose  name  it  bears,  was 
an  agent  in  transmitting  the  study  of  that  Veda.  But  (2)  in  the  books 
of  Kalidasa  and  others,  the  authors  are  discoverable  [from  the  notices] 
at  the  end  of  each  section.  Now  if  the  Veda  also  were  the  composition 
of  a  personal  author,  the  composer  of  it  would,  in  like  manner,  be  dis- 
coverable ;  but  such  \s  not  the  case.  Hence,  the  objection  that  the 
Veda  partakes  of  the,,nature  of  common  sentences  is  refuted  by  opposing 
considerations.  Consequently  the  Veda  is  not  the"  work  of  a  personal 
author.  And  such  being  the  case,  as  we  cannot  suspect  in  it  any  falli- 
bility occasioned  by  the  defects  of  human  reason,  the  preceptive  texts 
of  the  Veda  are  demonstrated  to  be  authoritative  in  questions  of  duty." 

II. —  Veddrtha-prakdsa.  The  versed  just  quoted  are  repeated  in  the 
Vedartha-prakasa  of  Madhava^on  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita  (p.  26),  with 
a  various  rrading  at  t3e  beginning  of  the  third  line,  viz.  "  samdkht/dnam 
pravachandt"  instead  of  "  samdkJiyd  ' '  dhyapakatvena"  The  comment 
by  which  the  verses  are  explained  in  the  same  work,  is  as  follows : 

Vdlmlkiyam  Vaiydsiklyam  ityddi-samdkhyundd  Rdmayana-Bfydratd- 

vistara ;  and  I  am  indebted  to  the  same  eminent  scholar  for  some  assistance  in  my 
translation  of  it.  •  > 


84  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,  ETC., 

dikam  yatJid  paurusheyam  tathd  JTdthakam  Kauthumam  Taittiriyam  iiy- 
ddt-samdkhydndd  vedah  paurusheyah  \  Tcincha  veda-vdkyam  paurusheyam 
vdkyatvdt  Kdliddsddi-vdkya-vad  Hi  chet  \  maivam^  \  sampraddya-pravrit- 
tyd  samdkhyopapatteh  \  Vlkyatva-hetus  tv  anupakibdhi-viruddha-kdldtya- 
ydpadishtah  \  Yathd  Vydsa-  Vdlmlki-prabhritayas  tad-grantha-nirmdnd- 
vasare  kai&hid  u/palabdhah  anyair  apy  hvichhinna  -  sampraddyena  wpa- 
lalhyante  \  na  tathd  veda-karttd  purushah  Itaschid  upalabdhah  \  prat- 
yuta  vedasya  nityatvam  sruti-si/iritibhydm  puryam  wJdhritam  \  Para- 
mdtmd  tu  veda-karttd 'fi  na  laukika-purushah  \  tasmdt  karttr^-doshd- 
bhdvdd  nasty  aprdmdnya-£ankd  \  a 

"It  may  be  said  (1)  that  as  the  Eamayana,  the  Mahabharata,  and 
other  such  books,  are  regarded  as  the  works  of^  personal  authors  from 
the  epithets  Yalmlkiya  (composed  by  Yalnaki),  Yaiyasikiya  (composed 
by  Yyasa),  etc.,  which  they  bear,  so  too  the  Yeda  must  have  had  a 
similar  origin,  since  it  is  called  by  the  appellations  of  Kathaka,  Kau- 
thuma,  Taittiriya,  etc. ;  and  further  (2),  that  the  sentences  of  the  Yeda 
must  have  had  this  origin,  because  they  possess  the  properties  of  a 
common  sentence,  like  those  of  Kalidasa  and  others.  But  these  ob- 
jections are  unfounded,  for  (1)  the  appellations  of  those  parts  of  the 
Yeda  are  derived  from  the  sages  who  were  agents  in  transmitting  the 
study  of  them;  and  (2)  the  objection  about  the  Yeda  having  the  pro- 
perties of  a  common  sentence  is  opposed  to  the  fact  that  no  author 
was  ever  perceived,  and  so  proceeds  upon  an  erroneous  generalization.89 
For  though  Yyasa  and  Yalmiki,  etc.,  when  employed  in  the  composition 
of  their  respective  works,  were  perceived  by  some  persons  to  be  so  en- 

89  This  phrase  thus  translated  (kalatyayapadishta}  is  a  technical  term  in  the 
Nyaya  philosophy,  denoting  one  of  the  hetv-abhasas,  or  "mere  semblances  of  reasons," 
and  is  thus  defined  in  the  Nyaya-;utras,  i.  49,  Kalatyayapadishtah  kalatJtah,  which 
Dr.  Ballantyne  (Aphorisms  of  the  Nyaya,  p.  42)  thus  explains  :  "  That  [semblance  of 
a  reason]  is  mis-timed,  which  is  adduced  when  the  time  is  not  [that  when  it  might 
have  availed].  [For  example,  suppose^  one  argues  that]  fire  does  not  contain  heat, 
because  it  is  factitious,  [his  argument  is  mis-timed  if  we  have  already  ascertained  by 
the  superior  evidence  of  the  senses  that  fire  does  Cbntain  heat]."  It  does  not,  however, 
appear,  how  the  essential  validity  of  an  argument  can  depend  at  all  on  tfce  time  when 
it  is  adduced,  as  is  justly  observed  by  Professor  Goldstiicker,  who  has  favoured  me 
with  his  opinion  on  the  sense  of  the  phrase.  After  consulting  the  commentary  of 
Vatsyayana  in  loco,  he  thinks  the  aphorism  (which  is  not  very  distinctly  explained 
by  the  commentators)  must  denote  the  erroneous  transference  of  a  conclusion  deduced 
from  the'  phenomena  happening  at  one  "  time,"  i.e.  belonging  to  one  class  of  cases, 
to  another  class  which  does  not  exhibit,  or  only  apparently  exhibits,  the  same  pheno- 
mena ;  in  short,  &  vicious  generalization. 


J  OF  THE   VEIJAS,   HELD   BY   INDIAN   AUTHORS.  85 

gaged,  and  are  known  by  others  also  [in  after  ages]  to  be  the  authors, 
from  the  existence  of  an  unbroken  tradition  to  that  effect ; — no  human 
author  of  the  V^da  ias  ever  been  perceived.  On  the  contrary,  we 

*  i   u  » 

have  formerly  shown  that  the  eternity  of  the  Yeda  is  declared  both  by 
itself  and  by  the  Smriti.  And  even  if  the  Supreme  Spirit  be  the  maker 
of  it,,still  he  is°not  a  mundane  person ;  and  consequently,  as  no  defect 
exists  in  the  maker,  there  it>no  reason  to  suspect  fallibility  in  his  work." 

No  notice  has  been'take,n  by  these  commentators  of  an  objection 
which  might  have  been  raised  to  the  validity  of  i?his  reasoning,  viz.  that 
the  hymns  of  the  Rich  and  other  Vedas  are  all  set  down  in  the  Anu- 
kramams,  or  indices  to  those  works,  as  being  uttered  by  particular 
rishis  ;  the  rishis  being;  in  fact,  there  denned  as  those  whose  words  the 
hymns  were — yasya  vdkyam  sa  rishih.90  (See  Colebrooke's  Misc.  Ess. 
i.  26,  or  p.  12  of  Williams  and  Norgate's  ed.)  Though,  however,  this 
objection  has  not  been  alluded  to  in  any  of  the  preceding  passages,  an 
answer  has  been  provided  to  it  in  the  well-known  assertion  of  the 
orthodox  Indian  writers  that  the  rishis  did  not  compose,  but  only  saw 
and  afterwards  repeated  the  hymns  and  other  parts  of  the  Vedas,  which 
had  in  reality  pre-existed  from  eternity. 

Thus,  in  the  Vedartha-prakasa  on  the  Taittirlya  Sanhita,  p.  11,  it  is 
said:  Atindriydrtha-drashtdrah  rishayah  \  Teshdm  veda-drashtritvam 
smaryate  \  Yugdnte  'ntarhitdn 91  Veddn  setihdsdn  maharshayah  \  Lebhire 

tapasd  purvam  anujndtdh  svayambhuvd   \   (Mahabharata,  S'antiparvan, 

* 
verse  7660.     See  atove,  p.  49.)     "  The  rishis  were  seers  of  things 

beyond  the  reach  of  the  bodily  senses.  The  fact  of  their  seeing  the 
Vedas  is  recorded  in  the  Smriti:  'The  great  rishis,  empowered  by 
Svayambhu,  formerly  obtained,  through  devotion,  the  Vedas  and  the 
Itihasas  whigh  had  disappeared  at  the  end  of  the  [preceding]  Yuga.'  " 
So,  too,  Manu  (as  already  quoted,  Vol.  I.  p.  394)  says,  in  similar, 
although  more  general  language :  Prtydpatir  idaih  sdstram  tapasaivd- 
srijat  pralhuh  \  Tathaiva  vedUn  ri&hayas  tapasd  pratipedire  \  "  Praja- 
pati  created  this  S'astra  (the  Institutes  of  Manu)  by  austere-fervour 
(tapas) ;  and  by  the  same  means  the  rishis  obtained  the  Vedas." 

90  Some  passages  from  the  Nirukta  on  this  subject  will  be  quoted  in  a  later  part  of 
this  volume.  »  •»  * 

81  The  text  of  the  Biblioth.  Ind.  reads  tarhi  tan.  I  have  followed  the  M.  Bh., 
which  evidently  gives  the  true  reading.  .  , 


86  OPINIONS    REGAEDING    THE    QEIGIN,    ETC. 

The  following  extract  from  the  account  of  the  Purva-mimansa  philo- 
sophy, given  in  the  Sarva-darsana-sangraha  of  Madhava  Acharyya 
(Bibliotheca  Indica,  pp.  127  ff,),  contains  a  fulle,r  summary  of  the  con- 
troversy between  the  Mlmansakas  an'd  the  Ivaiyayikas  respecting  the 
grounds  on  which  the  authority  of  the  Yeda  should  be  regarded  as 
•  resting :  » 

Sydd  etat  \  vedasya  katham  apaurusheyatvam  clhidhiyate  \  tat-prati- 
pddaka-pramdndlhdvdt  katham  ^nanyethdh  apa-^rusheydh  veddh  \  sampra- 
f  ddydvichchhede  saty  asmaryyamdna-karttrikatvdd  dtma-vad  iti  \  ~tad  etad 
mandam  viseshandsiddheh  \  paiirusheya-veda-vddilhih  pralaye  sampra- 
ddya  -  vichchhedasya  kakshlkarandt  \  kincha  kirn  idam  asmaryyamdna- 
Tcarttrikatvam  ndma  \  apratiyamdna-karttrikatvam  asmarana  -  gochara- 
Jcarttrikatvam  vd  \  na  prathamah  halpah  Paramesvarasya  harttuh  pra- 
miter  abhyupagamdt  \  na  dvitlyo  vilcalpdsahatvdt  \  tathd  hi  [  him  ekena 
asmaranam  abhipreyate  sarvair  vd  \  na  ddyah  \  "  yo  dharma-silo  jita- 
mdna-roshah"  ityddishu  muUakoJctishu  vyabhichdrdt  \  na  dvitiyah  \  sar- 
vdsmaranasya  asarvajna-durjndnatvdt  \ 

Paurmheyatve  pramdna-sambhavdch  cha  veda-vdkydni  paurmheydni  \ 
vdlcyatvdt  |  Kdliddsddi-vakya-vat  \  veda-vdjcydni  dpta-pranitdni  \  pra- 
mdnatve  sati  vdkyatvdd  Manv-ddi-vdkya-vad  iti  I 

Nanu  \  ":  Vedasyddhyayanam  sarvam  gurv-adhyayana-purvakam  \  vedd- 
dhyayana-sdmdnydd  adhund  'dhyayanam  yathd  "  |  ity  anumdnam  prati 
sddhanam  pragalbhate  iti  cJiet  \  tad  api  na  pramdna-kotim  praveshtum 
zshte  |  "  Bhdratddhyayanam  sarvam  giarv-adhyayana-purvalcam  \  Ithara- 
tddJiyayanatvena  sdmpratddhyayanam  yathd  "  iti  dlhdsa-samdna-yoga- 
kshematvdt  \  nanu  ttira,  Vydsah  karttd  iti  smaryyate  "ho  hy  anyah 
Pundarlkdkshdd  Mahdlhdrata-krid  lhavet "  ity-dddv  iti  diet  \  tad 
asdram  \  "  richah  sdmdni  jdjnire  \  chhanddmsi  jajnire  tasmdd  yajus  tas- 
mdd  ajdyata  "  iti  purusha-sukte  vedasya,  sa-kartrikatd-pratipddandt  \ 

Kincha  anityah  ialdah  sdmdnyavattve  sati  asmad-ddi-vdhyendriya- 
grdhyatvdd  ghata-vat  \  nanv  idam  anumdnam  sa  evdyani  ga-kdrah  ity 
pratyalhijnd-pramlna-pratihatam  iti  chet  \  tad  at&phalgu  "  fana-punar- 
jdta-kesa-dalita-kund"-dddv  iva  pratyalhijndydh  sdmdnya-vishayatvena 
bddhakatvdlhavdt  \ 

Nanv  asarlrasya  Paramesvarasya  tdlv-ddi-sthdndhhdvena  varnochchd. 
randsanibhavdt  katham  tat-pranitatvam  vedasya  sydd  iti  chet  \  na  tad 
lhadram  svabhdvato  'sarlrasydpi  tasya  lhaktdniigrahdrtham  llld-vigraha- 


OF    THE    VED|S,   HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  87 

i  t 

grahana  -  sambhavdt  \   tasmdd  vedasya  apaurusheyatva-vdcho  yuktir  na 
yuktd  iti  chet  \ 

Tatra  samddhdnam  abhidhlyate  \  Kim  idam  paurusheyatvam  sisddhayi- 

t  1 

shitam  \  purudhdd  utpannatva-mdtram  \  yathdtasmad-ddibhir  ahar  aJiar 
uchchdryyamdnasya  vedasya  \  pramdndntarena  artham  vpafabhya  tat- 
prakusanaya  raeliitatvam  vd  \  yathd  asmad-ddibhir  iva  nibadhyamdnasya 
prabandhasya  \  pwthayne  na  vipratipattih  \  charame  kirn  anumdna-baldt 
tat-sddhanam  agama-balad  vd  \  na  ddyah  \  Mdlatl-mddhavddi-vdlcyeshu 
savyalhichdratvdt  \  atha  pramdnatve  sati  iti  visishyate  iti  diet  \  tad  api^ 
nd  vipaschito  man^asi  vaisadyam  dpadyate  \  pramdndntardgocliardrtha- 
pratipddakam  hi  vdkyam  Veda-vdkyam  \  tat  pramdndntara-gochardrtha- 
pratipddalcam  iti  sddhyamdne  "  mama  mdtd  bandhyd  "  iti  vad  vydghdtd- 
pdtdt  |  kincha  Paramesvarasya  llld-vigraha-parigrahdbhyupagame'py 
atlndriydrtha-darsanam  na  sanjdghatiti  desa-kdla-svabhdva-viprakrtsh- 
tdrtha- grahanopdydbhdvdt  \  na  cha  tach-chaksJiur-ddikam  eva  tddrilc- 
pratiti-janana-kshamam  iti  mantavyam  \  drishtdnusdrenaiva  kalpandydh 
dsrayaniyatvdt  \  tad .  uktam  Gurubhih  sarvajna  -  nirdkarana  -  veldydm 
"  yatrdpy  atisayo  drishtah  sa  svdrthdnatilanghandt  I  dura-sukshmddi- 
drishtau  sydd  na  rupe  srotra-vrittitd  "  iti  \  atah  eva  na  dgama-baldt  tat- 
sddhanam  | 

"  Tena  proktam"  iti  Pdniny-anusdsane  jdgraty  api  Kdth&ka-Kdldpa- 
Taittirlyam  ityddi-samdkhyd  adhyayana-sampraddya-pravarttaka-visha- 
yatvena  upapadyate  \  tad -vad  atrdpi  sampraddya-pravarttaka-vishaya- 
tvendpy  upapadyate  \  na  cha  amsmdna-baldt  sabdasya  anityatva-siddhih  \ 
pratyabhijnd-virodhdt  |  .  .  .  . 

Nanv  idam  pratyabhijndnam  gatvddi-jdti-vish#yam  na  gddi-vyakti- 
rishayam  tdsdih  prati-purusJiam  bhedopalambhdd  \  anyatJid  "Somasarmd 
'dhlte"  iti  vibhdgo  na  sydd  iti  diet  \  tad  dpi  sobhdm  na  bibhartti  gddi- 
vyakti-bhede  "pramdndbhdvena  gatvddi-jdti-vishaya-kalpandydm  pramdnd- 
bhavdt  |  Yathd  gatvam  ajdnatah  ekam  eva  bhinna-desa-parimdna-sam- 
sthdna-vyakty-iipadhdna-vasdd  bJiinna-desam  iva  alpam  iva  mahad  iva 
dlrgJiam  iqa  vdmanam  iva  prathate  tathd  ga-vyaktim  ajdnatah  ekd  'pi 
vyanjaka-bheddt  tat-tad-dharmdnubandhinl  pratibhdsate  \  etena  virud- 
dha-dharmddhydsdd  bheda  -  pratibhdsah  iti  praty uktam  \  tatra  kim 
svdbhdviko  viruddha-dharmddhydso  bheda- sddhakatvena  abhimatah  prd- 
tltiko  vd  |  prathame  aslddhih  \  aparathd  svdbhu,vika-bheddbh7/upagame 
dasa  ga-kdrdn  udachdrayat  Chaitra  iti  prattipattih  sydd  na  tu  dasa- 


88  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    C^RIGIN,    ETC., 

kritvo  ga-kdrah  iti  \  dvitlye  tu  na  svdbhdvika-bheda-siddhih  \  na  hi 
paropddhi-lhedena  svdbhdmkam  aikyam  vihanyate  \  ma  bhud  nabhaso  ''pi 
kumbhddy-upddhi-bheddt  svdbhdviko  bkedah  |  .  .  .  .  tad  uktam  dchdry- 
yaih  \  ' prayojanam  tu  y<y  jdtes  tadvatndd  ev&labhyate  \  cyakti-lalhyaih 
tu  nddelhyah  iti  gatvddi  -  dhlr  vrithd"  iti  \  tathd  cha  "  pratyabhij 'nd 
yadd  sabde  jdgartti  niravagrahd  \  anity^tvdnumdndni  "aiva  sarvdni  bd- 
dhate  "  |  ....  tatai  cha  vedasya  apauru8heyataydy,irqpta-samasta-sankd- 
kalankdnkuratvena  svatah  siddhaxi  dharme  prdmdnyam  iti  msthitam  \ 

"  Be  it  so.  But  how,,  [the  Naiyayikas  may  ask]  is  the  Veda  alleged 
to  be  underived  from  any  personal  author  ?  How  can  you  regard  the 
Vedas  as  being  thus  underived,  when  there  is  no  evidence  by  which 
this  character  can  be  substantiated  ?  The  argument  urged  by  you  Ml- 
mansakas  is,  that  while  there  is  an  unbroken  tradition,  still  no  author 
of  the  Veda  is  remembered,  in  the  same  way  as  [none  is  remembered] 
in  the  case  of  the  soul  (or  self).  But  this  argument  is  very  weak,  be- 
cause the  asserted  characteristics  [unbrokenness  of  tradition,  etc.]  are  not 
proved ;  since  those  who  maintain  the  personal  origin  [i.e.  origin  from 
a  person]  of  the  Veda,  object  that  the  tradition  [regarding  the  Veda] 
was  interrupted  at  the  dissolution  of  the  universe  (pralaya).^  And 
further :  what  is  meant  by  the  assertion  that  no  author  of  the  Veda  is 
remembered  ?  Is  it  (1)  that  no  author  is  believed  ?  or  (2)  that  no  author 
is  the  object  of  recollection  ?  The  first  alternative  cannot  be  accepted, 
since  it  is  acknowledged  [by  us]  that  God  (Paramesvara)  is  proved  to 
be  the  author.  Nor  can  the  second  alternative  be  admitted,  as  it  cannot 
stand  the  test  of  the  following  dilemma,  viz.  Is  it  meant  (a)  that  no 
author  of  the  Veda  is  recollected  by  some  one  person,  or  (&)  by  any 
person  whatever  ?  The  former  supposition  breaks  down,  since  it  fails 
when  tried  by  such  detached- stanzas  as  this,  f  he  who  is  religious,  and 
has  overcome  pride  and  anger,'  etc.93  And  the  latter  supposition  is  in- 
admissible, since  it  would  be  impossible  for  any  person  who  was  not 
omniscient  to  know  that  no  author  of  the  Veda  was  recollected  by  any 
person  whatever.  (,  ( 

92  This  objection  occurs  in  a  passage  of  the  Eusumdnjali,  which  I  shall  quote 
further  on. 

93  I  do  not  know  from  what  work  this  verse  is  quoted,  or  what  is  its  sequel.    To 
proye  anything  in  point,  it  must  apparently  go  on  to  assert  that  such  a  saint  as  is  here 
described  remembers  the  author  of  the  Veda,  or  at  least  has  such  superhuman  facul- 
ties as  would  enable  him  to  discover  the  author. 


OF    THE    VElks,   HELD    BY  INDIAN    AUTHORS. 


89 


"  And  moreover,  [the  Naiyayikas  proceed],  the  sentences  of  the  Veda 
must  have  originated  with  a  personal  author,  as  proof  exists  that  they 
had  such  an  origin,  since  they  have  the  character  of  sentences,  like 
those  of  Kjilidasa  and  'other  writers.  The  sentences  of  the  Yeda  have 
been  composed  by  competent  persons,  since,  while  they  possess  au- 
thority, they  have,  at  the  same  time,  the  character  of  sentences,  like 
those  of  Manu  and  other  sages. 

"  But  [ask  th6>Mlmajnsakas]  may  it 'not  be  assumed  that,  '  All  study 
of  the  -Veda  was  preceded  by  an  earlier  study x>f  it  by  the  pupil's  pre: 
ceptor,  since  the  study  of  the  Yeda  must  always  have  had  one  common 
character,  which  was  the  same  in  former  times  as  now ; ' 91  and  that 
this  inference  has  force^  to  prove  [that  the  Veda  had  no  author  or  was 
eternal]  ?  Such  reasoning  [the  Naiyayikas  answer]  is  of  no  force  as 
proof,  [for  it  might  be  urged,  with  an  equal  show  of  reason,  that]  '  All 
study  of  the  Mahabharata  was  preceded  by  an  earlier  study  of  it  by  the 
pupil's  preceptor,  since  the  study  of  the  Mahabharata,  from  the  mere 
fact  of  its  being  such,  [must  have  had  the  same  character  in  former 
times]  as  it  has  now ; '  and  the  advantage  of  such  an  argument  is 
simply  illusory.  But  the  [Mimansakas  will  ask  whether  there  is  not  a 
difference  between  these  two  cases  of  the  Veda  and  the  Mahabharata, 
since]  the  Smriti  declares  that  [Vishnu  incarnate  as]  Vylasa  was  the 
author  of  the  latter, — according  to  such  texts  as  this,  'Who  else  than 
Pundarikaksha  (the  lotus-eyed  Vishnu)  could  be  the  maker  of  the 
Mahabharata?'  (see  above,  p. ^39), — [whilst  nothing  of  this  sort  is 
recorded  in  any  S'astra  in  regard  to  the  Veda].  This  argument,  how- 
ever, is  powerless,  since  it  is  proved  by  these  -words  of  the  Purusha- 
sukta,  '  From  him  sprang  the  Rich  and  Saman  verses  and  the  metres, 
and  from  him  the  Yajush  verses,'  (above1,  p.  3)  that  the  Veda  had  a 
maker. 

"Further  [proceed  the  Naiyayika.s]  we  must  suppose  that  sound 
[on  the  eternity  of  which  the  eternity  and  uncreatedness  of  the  Veda 
depend]  is,not  eternnl,  since,  while  it  has  the  properties  belonging  to  a 

94  The  purport  of  this  verse  is,  that  as  every  generation  of  students  of  the  Veda 
must  have  been  preceded  by  an  earlier  generation  of  teachers,  and  as  there  is  no  reason 
to  assume  any  variation  in  this  process  by  supposing  tfiat  there  ever  hacS  been  any 
student  who  taught  himself;  we  have  thus  a  regressus  ad  infinitum,  and  must  of 
necessity  conclude  that  the  Vedas  had  no  author,  but  were  eternal.  ? 


90  OPINIONS  REGARDING  THE   ORIGIN,  ETC., 

genus,  it  can,  like  a  jar,  be  perceived  by  the  external  organs  of  beings 
such  as  ourselves.  But  [rejoin  the  Mimansakas],  is  not  this  inference 

of  yours  refuted  by  the  proof  arising  from  the  fact  that  we  recognise 

t-      i 

the  letter  G  [for  exampla]  as  the  sanle  we  have  heard  ^before  ?  This 
argument  [replies  the  Naiyayika]  is  extremely  weak,  for  the  recogni- 
tion in  question  having  reference  to  a  Community  of«species, — as  in 
the  case  of  such  words  as  '  hairs  cut  and  grown  a;gaii?.,  or  of  full-  blown 
jasmine,'  etc., — has  no  force  to-  refute  my  assertion* [that  letters  are 
not  eternal].  i  ; 

"  But  [asks  the  Mimansaka]  how  can  the  Yeda  have  been  uttered 
by  the  incorporeal  Paramesvara  (God),  who  has  no  palate  or  other 
organs  of  speech,  and  therefore  cannot  be  conceived  to  have  pronounced 
the  letters  [of  which  it  is  composed]  ?  This  objection  [answers  the 
^aiyayika]«is  not  happy,  because,  though  Paramesvara  is  by  nature 
incorporeal,  he  can  yet,  by  way  of  sport,  assume  a  body,  in  order  to 
shew  kindness  to  his  devoted  worshippers.  Consequently,  the  argu- 
ments in  favour  of  the  doctrine  that  the  Yeda  had  no  personal  author 
are  inconclusive. 

"I  shall  now  [says  the  Mlmansaka]  clear  up  all  these  difficulties. 
"What  is  meant  by  this  paurusheyatva 9('  derivation  from  a  personal 
author ')  which  it  is  sought  to  prove  ?  Is  it  (1)  mere  procession  (ut- 
pannatva]  from  a  person  (purusha\  like  the  procession  of  the  Yeda 
from  persons  such  as  ourselves,  when  we  daily  utter  it  ?  or  (2)  is  it  the 
arrangement — with  a  view  to  its  manifestation — of  knowledge  acquired 
by  other  modes  of  proof,  in  the  sense  in  which  persons  like  ourselves 
compose  a  treatise  ?  If  the  first  meaning  be  intended,  there  will  be  no 
dispute.  If  the  second  sense  be  meant,  I  ask  whether  the  Yeda  is  proved 
[to  be  authoritative]  in  virtue  (a)  of  its  being  founded  on  inference,  or 
(5)  of  its  being  founded  on  supernatural  information  (dgama-lalut]  ?  The 
former  alternative  (a)  [_i.e.  that  Jhe  Yeda  derives  its  authority  from 
being  founded  on  inference]  cannot  be  correct,  since  this  theory  breaks 
down,  if  it  be  applied  to  the  sentences  of  the  Mr lati  Madhava  or  any 
other  secular  poem  [which  may  contain  inferences  destitute  of  autho- 
rity]. If,  on  the  other  hand,  you  say  (5),  that  the  contents  of  the 
Yeda  are  distinguished  from  those  of  other  books  by  having  authority, 
this  explanation  also  will  fail  to  satisfy  a  philosopher.  For  the  word 
of  the  Yeda  is  [defined  to  be]  a  word  which  proves  things  that  are  not 


OF    THE  VED>S,    HELD    BY   INDIAN  AUTHORS.  91 

)  t 

provable  by  any  other  evidence.  Now  if  it  could  be  established  that 
this  Vedic  word  did  nothing  more  than  prove  things  that  are  provable 
by  other  evidence,  we  should  be  involved  in  the  same  sort  of  contra- 

j  '5 

diction  as  if  a'  man  wero  to  say  "that  his  mother  was  a  barren  woman. 
And  even  if  we  conceded  that  Paramesvara  might  in  sport  assume  a 
body,  it  would  aot  be  conceivable  that  [in  that  case]  he  should  perceive 
things'  beyond  tho  reach  of  the  senses,  from  the  want  of  any  means  of 
apprehending  obj  jets  removed  from  him  in  place,  in  time,  and  in  nature. 
Nor  is  it  to  be  thought  that  liis  eyes  and  other>  senses  alone  would  have 
the  power  of  producing  such  knowledge,  since  men  can  only  attain  to 
conceptions  corresponding  with  what  they  have  perceived.  This  is 
is  what  has  been  said  by  the  Guru  (Prabhakara)  when  he  refutes  [this 
supposition  of  ]  an  om'nisciant  author:  'Whenever  any  object  is  per- 
ceived [by  the  organ  of  sight]  in  its  most  perfect  exercise,  such  per- 
ception can  only  have  reference  to  the  vision  of  something  very  distant 
or  very  minute,  since  no  organ  can  go  beyond  its  own  proper  objects, 
as  e.g.  the  ear  can  never  become  cognizant  of  form.'  Hence  the  au- 
thority of  the  Yeda  does  not  arise  in  virtue  of  any  supernatural  in- 
formation [acquired  by  the  Deity  in  a  corporeal  shape]. 

"Without  any  contravention95  of  the  rule  of  Panini  (iv.  3,  101 ;  see 
above,  p.  83)  that  the  grammatical  affix  with  which  the  wo^rds  Kathaka, 
Kalapa,  and  Taittiriya  are  formed,  imparts  to  those  derivatives  the  sense 
of '  uttered  by '  Katha,  Kalapa,  etc.,  it  is  established  that  the  names  first 
mentioned  have  reference  [not  to  those  parts  of  the  Veda  being  composed 
by  the  sages  in  question,  but]  to  the  fact  that  these  sages  instituted  the 
practice  of  studying  those  parts  of  the  Veda.  IJere  also  these  appella- 
tions ought  to  be  understood  in  the  same  manner,  as  referring  to  the  fact 
of  those  sages  being  the  institutors  of  the  3tudy  of  the  Veda ;  and  we  are 
not  to  think"  that  the  eternity  of  sound  [or  of  the  words  of  the  Veda]  is 
disproved  by  the  force  of  any  inference  [to  be  drawn  from  those  names], 
since  this  would  be  at  variance  with  the  recognition  [of  letters  as  the 
same  we  knew  befoT'e]  (see  above,  Mimansa  Sutras.,!.  19  f.,  p.  75) 

"But  [the  Naiyayikas  will  ask]  does  not  the  recognition  [of  G  and 

other  letters  as  the  same  we  knew  before]  refer  to  them  as  belonging 

to  the  [same]  species,  and  not  as  being  the  [same]  individual  letters, 

since,  in  fact,  they  are  perceived  to  be  different  [as  uttered  "by]  each 

95  Literally  "  although  the  rule  of  Panini  be  awake." 


92  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

person, — for  otherwise  it  would  be  impossible  for  us  to  make  any  dis- 
tinction [between  different  readers,  as  .when  we  say],  '  Somasarman  is 
reading? '  This  objection,  however,  shines  as  little tas  its  predecessors, 
and  has  been  answered  in.  this  way,  viz.  that  as  there  is  no  <proof  of  any 
distinction  of  individuality  between  G's,  etc.,  there  is  no  evidence  that 
we  ought  to  suppose  any  such  thing  as  a  species  of  G's6,  etc.  \_i.e.  of  G's 
and  other  letters  each  constituting  a  specie*].  J'ast  Us  to  the  man  who 
is  ignorant  that  G's  constitute  a  species,  [that  letter],  though  one 
,only,  becomes,  through  distinction  of  place,  magnitude,  form,  indi- 
viduality, and  position,  variously  modified  as  distinct  in  place,  as 
small,  as  great,  as  long,  or  as  short,  in  the  same  way,  to  the  man  who 
is  ignorant  of  an  individuality  of  G's,  \_i.e.  of  G's  being  numerically 
different  from  each  other],  this  letter,  though  only  one,  appears,  from 
the  distinction  existing  between  the  different  persons  who  utter  it,  to  be 
connected  with  their  respective  peculiarities ;  and  as  contrary  characters 
are  in  this  way  erroneously  ascribed  [to  the  letter  G],  there  is  a  falla- 
cious appearance  of  distinctness  [between  different  G's].  But  does  this 
ascription  of  contrary  characters  which  is  thus  regarded  as  creating  a 
difference  [between  G's]  result  from  (1)  the  nature  of  the  thing,  or  (2) 
from  mere  appearance  ?  There  is  no  proof  of  the  first  alternative,  as 
otherwise  an  inherent  difference  being  admitted  between  different  G's, 
it  would  be  established  that  Chaitra  had  uttered  ten  (different]  G's, 
and  not  [the  same]  G  ten  times.  But  on  the  second  supposition,  there 
is  no  proof  of  any  inherent  distinction  [between  G's].;  for  inherent 
oneness  (or  identity)  is  not  destroyed  by  a  difference  of  extrinsic  dis- 
guises [or  characteristics].  "We  must  not  conceive,  from  the  merely 
apparent  distinctness  [occasioned  by  the  separation  of  its  parts]  by 
jars,  etc.,  that  there  is  any  inherent  distinctness  in  the  atmosphere 
itself.  ....  It  has  been  said  by  the  Acharyya  'The  object  which 
the  Naiyayikas  seek,  by  supposing  a  species,  is  in  fact  gained  from 
the  letter  itself;  and  the  object  at  whi,ch  they  aim  by  supposing  an 
individuality  in  letters,  is  attained  from  audibly  sounds  (S.e.  the  se- 
parate utterances  of  the  different  letters),  so  that  the  hypothesis  of 
species,  etc.,  is  useless.'  And  he  thus  reaches  the  conclusion  that, 
'  since,  in  respect  of  sounds  (letters),  recognition  has  so  irresistible  a 
power,  [literally,  wakes,  unrestrained],  it  atone  repels  all  inferences 
against  the  eternity  [of  sound,  or  the  Veda]."  After  some  further 


OF  THE  VEDAS,  HELD   BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  93 

argumentation  the  Mimansaka  arrives  at  the  conclusion  that  "as  every 
imputation  of  doubt  which  has  germinated  has  been  set  aside  by  the 
underived  character  »f  the  Yeda,  its  authority  in  matters  of  duty  is 
shewn  to  be  self-evident." 

I ,  shall  not  attempt  to  carry  further  my  translation  of  this  abstruse 
discussion,  as  the  remainder  of  it  contains  much  which  I  should  find 
great  difficulty  in  comprehending.96 

[Although  not  direcdy  connected  with  the  subject  in  hand,  the  fol- 
lowing passage  from  S'ankara's  commentary  on  fche  Brahma  Sutras,  iii'l 
2,  40,97  will  throfa  some  further  light  on  the  doctrines  of  the  Hlmansa. 
In  the  two  preceding  Sutras,  as  explained  by  S'ankara,  it  had  been 
asserted,  both  on  grovjids  of  reason  and  on  the  authority  of  the  Veda, 
that  God  is  the  author  of  rewards.  In  the  40th  S'utra  a  different  doc- 
trine is  ascribed  to  Jaimini  : 

Dharmam  Jaiminir  atah  eva  \  Jaiminis  tv  dchdryyo  dharmam  phalasya 
ddtdram  manyate  \  ata  eva  hetoh  iruter  upapattes  cha  \  fruyate  tdvad 
ayam  arthah  "  svarga-kdmo  yajeta  "  ity  evam  ddishu  vdkye'shu  \  tatra  cha 
vidhi-sruter  vishaya-lhdvopagamdd  ydgah  svargasya  utpddakah  iti  gam- 
yate  \  anyathd  hy  ananushthdtriko  ydgah  dpadyeta  tatra  asya  upadesasya 
vaiyarthyam  sydt  \  nanv  anukshana-windsmah  Icarmanah  pJialam  na  upa- 
padyade  iti  parity akto  'yam  pakshah  \  na  esha  dosJiah  sruti-prdmdnydt  \ 
srutis  chet  pramdnam  yatJid  'yam  karma-pJiala-sairibandhah  srutah  upa- 
padyate  tathd  kalpayitavyah  \  na  cha  anutpddya  Icimapy  apurvaih  karma 
vinasyat  kdldntaritam pJialam  datum  saknotiity  atah  karmano  vd  sufcshmd 
kdchid  uttardvasthdrpJialasya  vd  purvdvasthti  apurvam  ndma  asti  iti  tark- 
yate  \  upapadyate  cha  ayam  ar.thah  iiktena  prakdrena  \  livaras  tu  phalam 
daddti  ity  anupapannam  avichitrasya  kdranasya  vichitra-kdryydnupapat- 
teh  vaishamyfl-nairgJtrinya-prasangdd  anushthdna-vaiyarthydpattes  cha  \ 
tdsmdd  dharmdd  eva  phalam  iti  \ 

11 '  Jaimini  says  that  for  this  reason  virtue  [is  the  giver  of  reward].' 
The  Acharyya  Jaimini  regards  virtue  [i.e.  the  performance  of  the  pre- 
scribed ri?es  and  duties]  as  the  bestower  of  reward.1  '  For  this  reason,' 

96  In  fact  I  have  left  out  some  pages  of  the  translation  which  I  had  given  in  the 
first  edition,  as  well  as  the  corresponding  portion  of  the  text.     I  am  indebted  to  the 
kindness  of  Professor  Goldstucker  for  various  suggestions  towards  the  improvement 
of  my  translation.     But  two' of  the  passages  on  whicil  he  had  favoured  nle  with  his 
opinion  are,  to  my  own  apprehension,  so  obscure,  that  I  have  omitted  them. 

97  It  is  partly  quoted  in  Prof.  Bauerjea's  work  on  Hiadu  Philosophy. 


94  OPINIONS  REGARDING  THE  ORIGIN,  ETC., 

and  because  it  is  proved  by  the  Yeda.   This  is  the  purport  of  the  Vedic 
text,  '  Let  the  man  who  seeks  paradise,  sacrifice,'  and  others  of  the 
same  kind.     As  from  this  Vedic  injunction  we  must  infer  the  existence 
of  an  object  [to  be  sought  after]  it  is  concluded  that  sacrifice  has  the 
effect  of  producing  heavenly  bliss ;  for  otherwise  we  should  be  involved 
in  the  absurdity  of  a  sacrifice  without  a  p'erformer  [sincb  no  one  would 
care  to  sacrifice  without  an  object],  and  thus  the  injunction  would  be- 
come fruitless.     But  may  it  not'  be  said  that  it. is  not' conceivable  that 
any  fruit  should  result  ,/rom  a  ceremony  which  perishes  every  moment, 
so  that  this  view  must  be  abandoned  ?    No,  this  defect  does  not  attach 
to  our  Mimansaka  statement,  since  the  Veda  is  authoritative.     If  the 
Veda  be  authority,  this  connection  of  the  rewerd  with  the  ceremony 
must  be  supposed  to  exist  just  as  is  proved  by  the  Veda.     But  as  a 
ceremony  which  perishes  without  generating  any  unseen  virtue,  can- 
not produce  a  reward  at  a  distant  time,  it  must  be  concluded  that  there 
is  either  a  certain  subtile  ulterior  form  of  the  ceremony,  or  a  certain 
subtile  anterior  form  of  the  reward,  which  is  called  '  unseen  virtue.' 
And  this  result  is  established  in  the  manner  before  mentioned.     But  it 
it  is  not  proved  that  God  bestows  rewards,  because  it  is  inconceivable 
that  a  uniform  Cause  [such  as  He  is]  should  produce  various  effects, 
and  because  the  performance  of  ceremonies  would  be  useless,  owing  to 
the  partiality  and  unmercifulness  which  would  attach  [to  the  supposed 
arbiter  of  men's  deserts].     Hence  it  is  from  virtue  alone  that  reward 
results." 

How  far  this  passage  may  be  sufficient  to  prove  the  atheism  of  the 
Himansa,  I  will  not  attempt  to  say.  Before  we  could  decide  on  such 
a  question,  the  other  Sutras  of  that  school  which  refer  to  this  question 
(if  there  be  any  such)  would  have  to  be  consulted. 

Professor  Banerjea  also  quotes  the  following  text  from  the  popular 
work,  the  Vidvan-moda-tarangini,  in  which  the  Mimansakas  are  dis- 
tinctly charged  with  atheism  :  ,,. 

Devo  na  kaschid  *bhuvanasya  karttd  bharitd  na  tiarttd  'pi  fha  kaschid 
aste  |  karmdnurupdni  subhdsubhdni  prdpnoti  sarvo  hi  janah  phaldni  \ 
vedasyd  karttd  na  cha  kaschid  aste  nitydh  hi  sabddh  rachand  hi  nityd  \ 
pramdnyam  asmin  svatah  eva  siddham  anddi-siddheh  paratah  katham  tat  \ 
"  There  is  no  God,  maker  of  the  world ;  nor  has  it  any  sustainer  or 
destroyer ;  for,  every  man  obtains  a  recompence  in  conformity  with  his 


OF    THE    VEDAS,    HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  95 

works.  Neither  is  there  any  maker  of  the  Veda,  for  its  words  are 
eternal,  and  their  arrangement  i§  eternal.  Its  authoritativeness  is  self- 
demonstrated,  for  ^inc<i  it  has  been  established  from  eternity,  how  can 
it  be  dependent  upon  anything  but  itself?  "  * 

I  learn  from  Professor  Banerjea  that  the  Mimansaka  commentator 

Prabhakara  ancf  his  school  treat  the  Purva  Mimansa  as  an  atheistic 

i 

system,  while  Kumar/la  makes  it  out  to  be  theistic.  In  fact  the  latter 
author  makes  the"  following  complaint  at  the  commencement  of  his 
Yarttika,  yerse  10:  Prdyenaiva  hi  Mlmdmsd  lofo  lokdyatlkritd  \  tdm< 
dstika-pathe  karttiim  ay  am  yatnah  krito  may  a  \  "  For  in  practice  the 
Mimansa  has  been  for  the  most  part  converted  into  a  Lokayata98 
(atheistic)  system ;  but  I  have  made  this  effort  to  bring  it  into  a  theistic 
path."  See  also  the  lines  wliich  are  quoted  from  the  Padma  Parana  by 
Vijnana  Bhikshu,  commentator  on  the  Sankhya  aphorisms,  in  a  passage 
which  I  shall  adduce  further  on.] 

It  appears  from  a  passage  in  Patanjali's  Hahabhashya,  that  that  great 
grammarian  was  of  opinion  that,  although  the  sense  of  the  Yeda  is 
eternal,  the  order  of  the  words  has  not  continued  uniform ;  and  that  it 
is  from  this  order  having  been  variously  fixed  by  Katha,  Kalapa,  and 
other  sages,  that  different  portions  of  the  Indian  scriptures  are  called 
by  their  names. 

The  following  passages  from  the  Mahabhashya,  and  from  the  Com- 
mentaries of  Kaiyyata  and  Nagojibhatta  thereon,  are  extracted  from 
the  fuller  quotations^  given  by 'Professor  Goldstiicker  in  pp.  147  f.  of 
the  Preface  to  his  Manava-kalpa-sutra. 

Patanjali :  Nanu  dm  ulctam  "na  hi  chhanddmsi  kriyante  nitydni  chhan- 
ddmsi"  iti  \  yadyapy  artho  nityah  \  yd  tv  asau  varndnupurvl  sd  anityd 
tad-lheddch  cha  etad  lhavati  Kdthakam  Kdldpakam  MaudaJcam  Paippald- 

JL 

dafaim  ityddi  .  .  .  .  |  Kaiyyata:  "Nitydni"  iti  \  karttur  asmaranat 
teshdm  iti  bhuvah  \  "yd  tv  asdv"  iti  \  mahdpralayddishu  varndnupiirm- 
vindse  punar  utpadyarishayahtsamskdrdtisaydd  veddrtham  smritvd  salda- 
rachandh  wdadhati  uy  arthah  \  "  tad-bheddd  "  iti  \  dnupurvl-bheddd  ity 
arthah  \  tatas  cha  Jfathddayo  veddnupurvydh  karttdrah  eva  ityddi  \ 
Nagojibhatta :  Amsena  vedasya  nityatvam  svlkritya  amsena  anityatvam 
dha  "yadyapy  arthah"  iti  \  anena  vedatvam  salddrtholhaya-vritti-dhva- 
nitvam  \  nanu  "  dhdtd  yathd  purvam  akalpayad"  ityddi-sruti-lalena 
98  See  Colebrooke's  Misc.  Ess.  i.  402  ff.,  or  p.  259  ff.  of  Williams  ind  Norgate's  ed. 


96  OPINIONS    KEGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,    ETC., 

dnupurvl  api  sd  eva  Hi  navya-purva-mimdmsd-siddhdntdt  sd  nityd  iti 
ayuktam  ata  aha  "  mahdpralayddishv".iti  \  dnupurvyds  tat-tat-kshana- 
ffhafitatvena  anityatvam  iti  bhdvah  iti  kechit  \  tan  na<\  "  yadyapy  artho 
nityah  "  ityddi-vdkya-sesfta-virodhdt  \  arthasyapi  jyotishtom&der  anityat- 
vdt  |  pravdhdvichchhedena  nityatvam  tu  ubhayor  api  tasmdd  manvantara- 
bhedena  dnupurvl  bhinnd  eva  " prati-manvantaram  chauhd  srutir  anyd 
ridhlyate"  ity  ukter  ity  anye  \  pare  tu  \  u  aftlio  rtitycfh"  ity  air  a  krita- 
katva-virodhy-anityatvasya  eva  alhyupagamah  furva-pakshind  tddrisa- 
nityatvasya  eva  chhandps$u  ukteh  \  evam  cha  artha-sabdena  atra  Isvarah  \ 
mulchyatayd  tasya  eva  sarva-veda-tdtparyya-vishayahdt  \  "vedais  cha 
sarvair  aham  eva  vedyah  "  iti  Gltokter  ity  dhuh  \  varndnupurvydh  anit- 
yatve  mdnam  aha  "  tad-bheddch  cha  "  iti  \  anitytitva-vydpya-lhedena  tat- 
siddhih  |  Ihedo  'tra  ndndtvam  \  Isvare  tu  tia  ndndtvam  \  bhede  mdnam 
vyavahdram  dha  \  " Kdthalca"  ityddi  \  arthaikye  'py  dnupurvl-bheddd 
eva  KdtJiaka-lcdldpaTcddi-vyavahdrah  iti  bhdvah  \  atra  dnupurvl  anityd 
ity  ukteh  paddni  tdny  eva  iti  dhvanitvam  \  tad  dha  "  tatas  cha  Kathd- 
dayah  "  ityddi  \ 

As  Professor  Goldstiicker  has  only  given  (in  p.  146  of  his  Preface)  a 
translation  of  the  above  extract  from  Patanjali,  and  has  left  the  pas- 
sages from  Kaiyyata  and  JSTagojibhatta  untranslated,  I  shall  give  his 
version  of  the  first,  and  my  own  rendering  of  the  two  last. 

Patanjali :  "  Is  it  not  said,  however,  that  '  the  Yedas  are  not  made, 
but  that  they  are  permanent  (i.e.  eternal)?'  (Quite  so);  yet  though 
their  sense  is  permanent,  the  order  of  tneir  letters  has  not  always  re- 
mained the  same ;  and  it  is  through  the  difference  in  this  latter  respect 
that  we  may  speak  of  the  versions  of  the  Kathas,  Kalapas,  Mudakas, 
Pippaladakas,  and  so  on."  Kaiyyata  on  Patanjali:  "'Eternal;'  by 
this  word  he  means  that  th'ey  are  so,  because  no  maker  of  them  is 
remembered.  By  the  words,  '  the  order  of  their  letters,'  etc.,  it  is 
meant  that,  the  order  of  the  letters  being  destroyed  in  the  great 
dissolutions  of  the  universe,  etc.,  the  rishis,  when  they  are  again 
created,  recollecting,0  through  their  eminent  scienl'e,  the  sepse  of  the 
Veda,  arrange  the  order  of  the  words.  By  the  phrase,  '  through  the 
difference  of  this,'  is  meant  the  difference  of  order.  Consequently, 
Katha  and  the  other  sages  [to  whom  allusion  was  made]  are  the  authors 
of  the  order  of  the  Veda."  Ndgojibhatta  on  Patanjali  and  Ka iyyata : 
"Admitting  in  part  the  eternity  of  the  Veda,  he,  Patanjali,  declares  in 


,       OF    THE    VEDAS,   HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  97 

the  words,  'though  the  sense  is  eternal,'  etc.,  that  it  (the  Veda)  is  also, 
in  part  not  eternal.  By  this  clause  it  is  implied  that  the  character  of  the 
Veda  as  such  is  QpnsHtufcd  both  by. the  words  and  by  the  sense."  But  is 
not  the  ordef  also  eternal,  since  it  is  a  settled  doctrine  of  the  modern 
Mlmansakss,  on  the  strength  of  such  Vedic  texts  as  this,  '  the  creator 
made  them  as  before,'  etc.,  that  the  order  also  is  the  very  same  ?  No ; 
this  is  incorrect,  and  in  consequence,  he  (Kaiyyata)  says,  '  in  the  great 
dissolution s,'  etc.  Some  s&y  th<2  meaning  of  this  is,  that  the  order  is  not 
eternal,  inasmuch  as  it  is  formed  in  particular  mcftnents.  But  this  is 
wrong,  because  it  is"  opposed  to  the  conclusion  of  the  sentence,  '  though 
their  sense  is  eternal,'  etc.,  and  because  the  objects  signified  also,  such 
as  the  jyotishtoma  sacrifice,  are  not  eternal.  Others  say  that  both  the 
sense  and  the  order  of  the  words  are  eternal  [or  permanent],  owing  to 
the  continuity  of  the  tradition ;  and  that,  consequently,  it  is  in  different 
manvantaras  that  the  order  of  the  words  is  different,  according  to  the 
text,  '  in  every  manvantara  this  sruti  (Veda)  is  made  different.'  Others 
again  think  that  in  the  words,  '  the  sense  is  eternal,'  etc.,  an  admis- 
sion is  made  by  an  objector  of  an  eternity  opposed  to  the  idea  of 
production,  since  it  is  only  such  a  [qualified]  eternity  that  is  men- 
tioned in  the  Veda;  and  that  thus  the  word  'sense,'  or;  'object' 
(arthah],  here  refers  to  Isvara,  because  he  is  the  principal  object  which 
is  had  in  view  in  the  whole  of  the  Veda,  according  to  the  words  of  the 
Bhagavad-gita  (xv.  15),  'It  is  I  whom  all  the  Vedas  seek  to  know.' 
He  next  states  the  proo?  of  the  assertion  that  the  order  of  the  letters  is 
not  eternal,  in  the  w«rds,  '  through  the  difference  of  this,'  etc.  The 
difference  in  the  order  is  proved  by  the  difference  in  the  things  included 
under  the  category  of  non-eternity.  Difference  here  means  variety.  But 
in  Isvara  (God),  there  is  no  variety.  He  declares  current  usage  to  be 
the  proof  of  difference,  in  the  words  '  Kathaka,'  etc.,  which  mean  that, 
though  the  sense  is  the  same,  we  use  the  distinctions  of  Kathaka,  Kala- 
paka,  etc.,  in  consequence  of  the  difference  of  arrangement.  Here  by 
saying  that  tue  order  is  not  eternal,  it  is  implied  that  the  words  are  the 
same.  And  this  is  what  is  asserted  in  the  words  [of  Kaiyyata],  '  con- 
sequently Katha  and  the  other  sages,' "  etc. 

n 

99  I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Goldstiicker  for  a  correction  of  my  former  rendering 
of  this  sentence,  and  of  several  others  in  this  passage  of  Nagojibhatta.  " 

7 


, 


98  OPINIONS   REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

After  quoting  these  passages  at  greater  length  than  I  have  given 
them,  Professor  Goldstiicker  goes  on  to  remark  in  his  note:  "  I  have 
quoted  the  full  gloss  of  the  three  principal  coffimeotat^rs,  on  this  im- 
portant Sutra  [of  Panini]  and  its  Varttikas,  because  it  is  of*considerable 

interest  in  many  respects ~We  see  Kaiyyata  and  Nagojibhatta 

•writhing  under  the  difficulty  of  reconciling  the  eternity  of  the  Veda 
with  the  diiferences  of  its  various  version?;,  whi^h,  nevertheless,  main- 

C  g 

tain  an  equal  claim  to  infallibility.  Patanjali'makes  rather  short  work 
'  of  this  much  vexed  Question ;  and  unless  it  be  allowed  here  to  render 
his  expression  varna  (which  means  'letter'),  'word,'  it  is  barely  pos- 
sible even  to  understand  how  he  can  save  consistently  the  eternity  or 
permanence  of  the  '  sense '  of  the  Yeda.  That  the  modern  Mlmansists 
maintain  not  only  the  'eternity  of  the  sense,'  but  also  the  '  permanence 
of  the  text,'  which  is  tantamount  to  the  exclusive  right  of  one  single 
version,  we  learn,  amongst  others,  from  Nagojibhatta.  But  as  such  a 
doctrine  has  its  obvious  dangers,  it  is  not  shared  in  by  the  old  IMiman- 
sists,  nor  by  Nagoji,  as  he  tells  us  himself.  He  and  Kaiyyata  inform 
us  therefore  that,  amongst  other  theories,  there  is  one,  according  to 
which  the  order  of  the  letters  (or  rather  words)  in  the  Vaidik  texts  got 
lost  in  the  several  Pralayas  or  destructions  of  the  worlds ;  and  since 
each  manvantara  had  its  own  revelation,  which  differed  only  in  the 
expression,  not  in  the  sense  of,  the  Vaidik  texts,  the  various  versions 
known  to  these  commentators  represent  these  successive  revelations, 

• 

which  were  '  remembered,'  through  their  '  excessive  accomplishments,' 
by  the  Bishis,  who  in  this  manner  produced,  or  rather  reproduced,  the 
texts  current  in  their  time,  under  the  name  of  the  versions  of  the 
Kathas,  Kalapas,  and  so  on.  In  this  way  each  version  had  an  equal 
claim  to  sanctity.  There  is  a  very  interesting  discussion  on  the  same 
subject  by  Kumarila,  in  his  Mlmansa-varttika  (i.  3,  10)." 

III.  The  Vedunta. — I  proceed  to  adduce  the  reasonings  by  which  Bada- 
rayana,  the  reputed  author  of  the  Brahma,  S'ariraka,  or  Vedanta  Sutras, 
as  expounded  by  S'ankara  Acharyya  in  his  S'urlraka-mlmuff^su-hhdshya, 
or  commentary  on  those  Sutras,  defends  the  eternity  and  authority  of 
the  Veda.  His  views,  as  we  shall  see,  are  not  by  any  means  identical 
•with  those  of  Jaimini  .and  his  school.  After  discussing  the  question 
•whether  any  persons  but  men  of  the  three  highest  tribes  are  qualified 
for  divine  knowledge,  the  author  of  the  Sutras  comes  to  the  conclusion 


OF  THE  VEDAS,   HELD   BY   INDIAN  AUTHORS.  99 

that  S'udras,  or  persons  of  the  fourth  tribe,  are  incompetent,  while 
beings  superior  to  man,  the  god^,  are  competent100  (Colebrooke's  Misc: 
Ess.  i.  348,  or  p.  £23  .pf  Williams  and  Norgate's  ed.)  In  Sutra,  i.  3, 
26,  the  autior  determines  that  the  gods  have  %,  desire  for  final  emanci- 
pation, owing  to  the  transitoriness  of  their  glory,  and  a  capacity  for 
attaining  it,  because  they  possess  the  qualities  of  corporeality,  etc. ; 
and  that  there  iff  no*  obstacle  which  prevents  their  acquiring  divine 
knowledge.  A  dffficulty,  however,  haVing  been  raised  that  the  gods 
cannot  be  corporeal,  because,  if  they  were  so,  it'ia  necessary  to  conceive* 
that  they  would  be  corporeally  present  (as  priests  actually  are)  at  the 
ceremonial  of  sacrifice,  in  which  they  are  the  objects  of  worship, — a 
supposition  which  would  not  consist  with  the  usual  course  of  such  cere- 
monies, at  which  the  gods  afe  not  seen  to  be  corporeally  present,  and 
would,  in  fact,  involve  an  impossibility,  since  Indra,  for  example,  being 
but  one,  could  not  be  corporeally  present  at  numerous  sacrifices  at 
once; — this  difficulty  is  solved  (under  Sutra  i.  3,  27)  in  two  ways, 
either  by  supposing  (1)  that  the  gods  assume  different  forms,  and 
are  present  at  many  sacrifices  at  once,  although  invisible  to  mortals ;  or 
by  considering  (2)  that,  as  a  sacrifice  is  offered  to  (and  not,  by)  a  deity, 
many  persons  may  present  their  oblations  to  that  deity  at  once,  just  as 
one  Brahman  may  be  saluted  by  many  different  persons  at  the  same 
time.  It  is,  therefore,  concluded  that  the  corporeal  nature  of  the  gods 
is  not  inconsistent  with  the  practice  of  sacrifice.  Having  settled  these 
points,  S'ankara  comes  to  Sutra  i?  3,  28  : 

"S'abde  iti  chet  \  na  \  atah  pralhavdt  |  pratyaksJidnumdndbhymm"  \ 
Ma  ndma  vigrahavattve  devddmdm  abhyupagamyamdne  karmani  kas- 
chid  virodhah  prasanji  \  sabde  tu  virodhah  prasajyeta  \  hatham  \  Aut- 
pattikam  Tii  saldasya  arthena  sambandham  dsritya  "  anapekshatvdd " 
iti  vedasya  prdmdnyam  sthdpitam  \  Iddriim  tu  vigrahavatl  devatd  'bhyti- 
pagamyamdnd  yadyapy  aisvaryya-yogdd  yugapad  aneka-karma-samban- 
dhlni  havlmshi  bhunjlta  tathup^  vigraha-yogdd  asmad-ddi-vaj  janana-ma- 
ranavatl  sd^iti  nityasifa  sabdasya  anityena  arthena  n'ttya-sambandhe  pra- 
liyamdne  yad  vaidike  sabde  prdmdnyam  sthitam  tasya  virodhah  sydd  iti 
chet  |  na  ay  am  apy  asti  virodhah  \  kasmdd  "  atah  prabhavdt "  |  Atah  eva 


100  For  a  discussion  of  the  different  question  whether  the  gods  can  practise  the  cere- 
monies prescribed  in  the  Vedas,  see  the  First  Volume  of  t^iis  work,  p.  »365,  note. 


100  OPINIONS   REGARDING   THE    ORIGIN,   ETC. 

hi  vaidikdt  sabddd  devddikam  jagat  prabhavati  \  Nanu  "janmddi  asya 
yatah  "  (Brahma  Sutras  i.  1,2)  iti  brahma-prabhavatvam  jagato  'vadhd- 
ritam  katham  iha  sabda-prabhavatvam  uchyate  \  Ayichq  yadi  ndma  vai- 
dikdt sabddd  asya  prabhavo  'bhyupagatah  katham  etdvatd  virqdhah  sabde 
parihritah  \  ydvatd  Vasavo  Rudrdh  Aditydh  Visvedevdh  Marutah  ity  ete 
'rthdh  anitydh  eva  utpattimattvdt  \  Tad-anityatve  cha  iad-vdchakdnam 
vaidikdndm  Va&v-ddi-sabddndm  anityatvam  Icena  vdr^yaii  \  Prasiddham  hi 
loke  Devadattasya  putre  utpanne  Yajnadattah  iti  tasya  ndma  Tcriyate  iti  \ 
Tasmdd  mrodhah  eva  ifilde  iti  chet  \  na  \  Gavddi-sabddrtha-sambandha- 
nityatva-darsandt  \  Na  hi  gavddi-vyaktindm  utpattimattve  tad-dkritlndm 
apy  utpattimattvam  sydd  dravya-guna-lcarmandm  hi  vyalctayah  eva  utpad- 
yante  na  dlcritayah  \  ATcritibhis  cha  iabddndm  sanbandho  na  vyalctilhih  \ 
vyaktindm  dnantydt  sambandha-grahandnupapatteh  \  Vyalctishu  utpadya- 
mdndsv  apy  dlcritlndm  nityatvdd  na  gavddi-sabdeshu  Tca^chid  mrodho  dris- 
yate  \  Tathd  devddi-vyalcti-prabhavdlhy^agame  'pi  ahriti-nityatvdd  na 
Icaschid  Vasv-ddi-sabdeshu  mrodhah  iti  drashtavyam  \  Akriti-viseshas  tu  de~ 
vddlndm  mantrdrthavddddilhyo  vigrahavattvddy-avagamdd  avagantavyah  \ 
Sthdna-msesha-samlandha-nimittds  cha  Indrddi  -  Salddh  sendpatyddi- 
sabda-vat  \  Tatas  cha  yo  yas  tat  tat  sthdnam  adhitishthati  sa  sa  Indrddi- 
sabdair  abhidhlyate  iti  na  dosho  bhavati  \  Na  cha  idam  iabda-prabhavat- 
vam  Brahma -prabhavatva-vad  updddna-kdranatvdbhiprdyena  uchyate  \ 
katham  tarhi  sthiti-vdchalcdtmand  nitye  sabde  nitydrtha-sambandhini 
sabda-vyavdhdra-yogydrtha-'vyakti-nishpattir  " atah prabhavah"  ity  uch- 
yate |  katham  punar  avagamyate  sabddt  prabhavati  jagad  iti  \  "pratya- 
kshdnumdndbhydm  "  |  Pratyaksham  srutih  \  prdmdnyam  prati  anape- 
Jcshatvdt  |  anumdnam  smritih  \  prdmdnyam  prati  sdpekshatvdt  \  Te  hi 
sabda-purvdm  srishtim  dar  say  atah  \  "Jtte"  iti  vai  prajdpatir  devdn 
asrijata  " asrigram"  iti  manushydn  "indavah"  iti pitrlms  "tirahpavi- 
tram"  iti  grahdn  "  dsavah"  iti  stotram  "  visvtini"  iti  sastram  "  abhi 
saubhagd  "  ity  anydh  prajdh  iti  srutih  \  Tathd  'nyatrdpi  "  sa  manasd 
vdcham  mithunam  samabhavad"  (S'atapatha  Brahmana  x.  6,  5,  4,  and 
Brihadaranyaka  Ujjanishad,  p.  50)  ityddind  tatrt*  tatra  sabda-purvikd 
srishtih  irdvyate  \  Smritir  api"anddi-nidhand  nityd  vdg  utsrishtd  svayam- 
bhuvd  |  ddau  vedamayi  divyd  yatah  sarvdh  pravrittayah  "  ity  utsargo  'py 
ayam  vdchah  sampraddya-pravarttandtmako  drashtavyah  anddi-nidhand- 
ydh  anyddrisasya  utsargasya  asambhavdt  \  Tathd  "ndma  riipam  cha  bhu- 
tdndm  kanna^dm  cha  picavarttanam  \  Veda-sabdebhya  evddau  nirmame  sa 


OP   THE   VEDAS,   HELD   BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  101 

• 

mahesvarahn  iti\  "sarveshdm  chasandmdnikarmdnichaprithakprithak  \ 
Veda-sabdebhya  evddau  prithak  famsthds  cJia  nirmame  "  iti  cha  \  Apicha 
chiklrshitam  artham  a^utishthan  tasya  vdchakam  sabdam  piirvam  smritvd 
paschdt  tarn,  artham  anittishthati  iti  sarveshdfii  nah  pratyaksham  etat  \ 
Tathd  prajdpater  api  srashtuh  srishteh  purvam  vaidikdh  iabddh  manasi 
prddurlabhuvuh  paschdt  tad-anugattin  arthdn  sasarjja  iti gamyate  \  Tathd 
cha  srutih  "  sa  bhur  iti  vyajiaran  bhumim  asrijata  " 101  ity-evam-ddikd 
bhiir-ddi-sabdebhy^ah  eva»  manasi  prddurbhutebhyo  bhur-ddi-lokdn  prddur- 
bhutdn'srishtdn  darsayati  \  kim-titmakam  punah  iabdam  abhipretya  idamt 
,sabda-prabhavatvam  uchyate  \  sphotam  ity  aha  |  .  .  .  .  Tasmdd  nitydt 
sabddt  sphota-rupud  dbhidhdyakdt  kriyd-kdraka-phala-lakshanam  jagad 
alhidheya-lhutam  pralkavatlti  |  .  .  .  .  Tatas  cha  nityebhyah  Sabdebhyo 
devddi-vyaktlndm  prabhavah'ity  aviruddham  \ 

Sutra  i.  3,  29.  "Ata  eva  cha  nityatvam  "  |  svatantrasya  karttuh  sma- 
rantfd  eva  hi  sthite  vedasya  nityatve  devddi-vyakti-prabhavdlhyv/pagamena 
tasya  virodham  dsankya  "  atah prabhavdd"  iti parihritya  iddnlm  tad  eva 
veda-nityatvam  sthitam  dradhayati  tl  ata  eva  cha  nityatvam  "  iti  \  atah 
eva  cha  niyatdkriter  devdder  jagato  veda-sabda-prabhavatvdd  eva  veda- 
sabda-nityatvam  api  pratyetavyam  \  Tathd  cha  mantra-varnah  "yajnena 
vdchah  padavlyam  ay  an  tarn  anvavindann  rishishu  pravishtdm"  iti  sthi- 
tdm  eva  vdcham  anuvinndm  darsayati  \  Vedavydsas  cha  evam  eva  smarati 
(Mahabharata,  Yanap.  7660)  |  "yugdnte  Jntarhitdn  veddn  setihdsdn  ma- 
harshayah  \  lebhire  tapasa  purvam  anujndtdh  svayambhuvd  "  iti  \ 

"  Sutra  i.  3,  28  :  '  But  it  is  sSid  that  there  will  be  a  contradiction  in 
respect  of  sound  (or  the  word) ;  but  this  is  not  so,  because  the  gods  are 
produced  from  it,  as  is  proved  by  intuition  and  inference.' 

"  Be  it  so,  that  though  the  corporeality  of  the  gods,  etc.,  be  admitted, 
no  contradiction  will  arise  in  respect  of  tlie  ceremonial.  Still  [it  will 
be  said  that]  a  contradiction  will  arise  in  regard  to  the  word.  How  ? 
[In  this  way.]  By  founding  upon  the  inherent  connection  of  a  word 
with  the  thing  signified,  the  Authority  of  the  Yeda  had  been  established 
by  the  aphorism  '  ahapekshatvdt,'  etc.  (Mlmansa  fcutras  i.  2,  21  ;  see 
above,  p.  75.)  But  now,  while  it  has  been  admitted  that  the  deities  are 
corporeal,  it  will  follow  that  (though  from  their  possession  of  divine 

power  they  can  at  one  and  the  same  time  partake  of  the  oblations 
l  »  • 

101  Compare  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  ^i.  1,  6,  3.    , 


102  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

offered  at  numerous  sacrifices),  they  will  still,  owing  to  their  corpo- 
reality, be  subject,  like  ourselves,  to  birth  and  death ;  and  hence,  the 
eternal  connection  of  the  eternal  word  with  an  object  which  is  non- 
eternal  being  lost,  a  contradiction  will  arise  in  regard  to  tfce  authority 
proved  to  belong  to  the  word  of  the  Veda ;  [for  thus  the  word,  not 
having  any  eternal  connection  with  non-eternal  things,  could  not  be  au- 
thoritative]. But  neither  has  this  supposed,  -^ontra'diction  any  existence. 
How  ?  '  Because  they  are  produced  from  if'.'  Eence  the  world  of  gods, 
•etc.,  is  produced  from  <th'e  Vedic  word.  But  according  to  the  aphorism 
(Brahma  Sutras  i.  1,  2)  '  from  him  comes  the  production,  etc.,  of  all  this,' 
it  is  established  that  the  world  has  been  produced  from  Brahma.  How, 
then,  is  it  said  here  that  it  is  produced  from  the  word  ?  And,  moreover, 
if  it  be  allowed  that  the  world  is  produced  Yrom  the  Vedic  word,  how  is 
the  contradiction  in  regard  to  the  word  thereby  removed,  inasmuch  as  all 
the  following  classes  of  objects,  viz.  the  Yasus,  Eudras,  Adityas,*Yis- 
vedevas,  Maruts,  are  non-eternal,  because  produced;  and  when  they 
are  non-eternal,  what  is  there  to  bar  the  non-eternity  of  the  Yedic 
words  Yasu,  etc.,  by  which  they  are  designated  ?  For  it  is  a  common 
saying,  '  It  is  only  when  a  son  is  born  to  Devadatta,  that  that  son 
receives  the  name  of  Yajnadatta,'  [i.e.  no  child  receives  a  name  before 
it  exists].  Hence  a  contradiction  does  arise  in  regard  to  [the  eternity 
of]  the  word.  To  this  objection  we  reply  with  a  negative  ;  for  in  the 
case  of  such  words  as  cow  we  discover  an  eternal  connection  between 
the  word  and  the  thing.  For  although  individual  cows,  etc.,  come 
into  existence,  the  species  to  which  they  belong  doqs  not  begin  to  exist, 
as  it  is  individual  substances,  qualities,  and  acts,  which  begin  to  exist, 
and  not  their  species.  Now  it  is  with  species  that  words  are  connected, 
and  not  with  individuals,  for  as  the  latter  are  infinite,  such  a  connection 
Avould  in  their  case  be  impossible.  Thus  as  species  are  eternal  (though 
individuals  begin  to  exist)  no  contradiction  is  discoverable  in  the  case 
of  such  words  as  cow,  etc.  In  the  same -way  it  is  to  be  remarked  that 
though  we  allow  that  the  individual  gods,  etc., 'have  commenced  to 
exist,  there  is  no  contradiction  [to  the  eternity  of  the  Yedic  word]  in 
the  [existence  of-  the]  words  Yasu,  etc.  [which  denote  those  individual 
gods],  since  the  species  to  which  they  belong  are  eternal.  And  the 
fact  that  the  gods,  etc.,  belong  to  particular  species  may  be  learned 
from  this,  tha(i  we  discover  their  corporeality  and  other  attributes  in 


OF    THE    YEDAS,  HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHOES.  103 

i 

* 

the  hymns  and  arthavadas  (illustrative  remarks  in  the  Vedas),  etc.  The 
words  Indra,  etc.,  are  derived  from  connection  with  some  particular  post, 
like  the  words  'commander  of  an  army'  (sendpati},  etc.  Hence,  who- 
soever occupied  any  particular  post,  is  designated  by  the  words  Indra, 
and  so  forth ;  [and  therefore  Indra  and  the  other  gods  belong  to  the 
species  of  occupants  of  particular  posts].  Thus  there  is  no  difficulty. 
And  t'Ais  derivation  from  the  word  is  not,  like  production  from  Brah- 
ma, meant  in  th»  sense  01  evolution,  from  a  material  cause.  But 
how,  siace  language  is  eterrfal  and  connected  .with  eternal  objects,  is 
it  declared  in  the  phrase  'produced  from  it'  tnat  the  production  of* 
individual  things,  corresponding  to  the  ordinary  sense  of  words,  is 
effected  by  a  thing  (sound  or  language),  the  very  nature  of  which  it 
is  to  denote  continuance*  [and,  not  such  change  as  is  involved  in  the  idea 
of  production  ?] 102  How,  again,  is  it  known  that  the  world  is  pro- 
duced from  the  word  ?  The  answer  is,  [it  is  known]  '  from  intuition 
and  inference.'  '  Intuition  '  means  the  Yeda,  because  it  is  independent 
of  any  (other  authority).  '  Inference '  means  the  smriti,  because  it  is 
dependent  on  another  authority  (the  Yeda).  These  two  demonstrate 
that  the  creation  was  preceded  by  the  word.  Thus  the  Veda  says,  '  at 
(or  with)  the  word  ete  (these)  Prajapati  created  the  gods;  at  asrigram 
(they  were  poured  out)  he  created  men  ;  at  indavah  (drops  of  soma)  he 
created  the  pitris ;  at  tirah  pavitram  (through  the  filter)  he  created  the 
libations ;  at  asavah  (swift)  he  created  hymns  ;  at  visvuni  (all)  he  created 
praise ;  and  at  the  words  abhi  scwhhaga  (for  the  sake  of  blessings)  he 
created  other  creatures.' 103  And  in  another  place  it  is  said  '  with  his 


102  This  sentence  is  rather  obscure. 

103  According  to  Govinda  Ananda's  Gloss  this  passage  is  derived  from  a  Chhandoga 
Brahmana.     It^contains  a  mystical  exposition  of  the  words  from  Rig-veda,  ix.  62,  1 
(=Sttma-veda,  ii.  180)  which  are  imbedded  in  it,  viz.  ete  asrigram  indavas   tirah 
pavitram  asavah  \  visvani  abhi  saubhaga>\  "These  hurrying  drops  of  soma  have  been 
poured  through  the  filter,  to  procure  all  blessings."  (See  Benfey's  translation,)  It  was 
by  the  help  of  Dr.  Pertsch's  alphabetical  list  of  the  initial  words  of  the  verses  of  the 
Eig-veda  (in^rVeber's  Intiische  Studien,  vol.  iii.)  that  I  discovered  the  verse  in  ques- 
tion in  the  Eig-veda.     Govinda  Ananda  gives  us  a  specimen  of  his  powers  as  Vedic 
exegete  in  the  following  remarks  on  this  passage :  Ity  etan-mantra-sthaih  padaih 
smritva  Erahma  devadin  asrijata  \  tattra  "ete"  iti  padam  sarvanamatvad  devanam 
smarakam  asrig  rudhiraih  tat  pradhane  dehe  ramante  iti  "asrigrah"  manushyah  [ 
chandra-sthanam  pitrlnam  incki-sabdah  smarakah  ityadi  \  "  Brahmu  createdtfhe  gods, 
etc.,  in  conformity  with  the  recollections  suggested  by  the  various  words  in  this  verse. 
The  word  ete  ('  these ')  as  a  pronoun  suggested  the  gods.    The  beiigs  who  disport 


104  OPINIONS   REGARDING  THE   ORIGIN,   ETC., 

mind  he  entered  into  conjugal  connection  with  Vach  (speech).'  (S'.  P. 
Br.  x.  6,  5,  4,  Brih.  Ar.  Up.  p.  50.)  By  these  and  other  such  texts 
the  Yeda  in  various  places  declares  that  creation  was  preceded  by  the 
word.  And  when  the  Smriti  says,  'In  the  beginuing  a  celestial 
voice,  eternal,  without  beginning  or  end,  co-essential  with  the  Yedas, 
was  uttered  by  Svayambhu,  from  which  all  activities  [proceeded] ' 
(see  above,  p.  16),  the  expression  'utterance  of  a  voice'  is  to  be  re- 
garded as  employed  in  the  sense  of  the  origination  of  a  tradition, 
since  it  is  inconceivable  that  a  voice  which  was  '  without  beginning  or 
end,'  could  be  uttered  in  the  same  sense  as  other  sounds.  Again,  we 
have  this  other  text,  '  In  the  beginning  Mahesvara  created  from  the 
words  of  the  Veda  the  names  and  forms  of  creatures,  and  the  origina- 
tion of  actions ; '  and  again,  '  He  created  in  the  beginning  the  several 
names,  functions,  and  conditions  of  all  creatures  from  the  words  of  the 
Veda.'  (See  above,  pp.  16  and  6.)  And  it  is  a  matter  of  common  ob- 
servation to  us  all,  that  when  any  one  is  occupied  with  any  end  which 
he  wishes  to  accomplish,  he  first  calls  to  mind  the  word  which  expresses 
it,  and  then  proceeds  to  effect  his  purpose.  So,  too,  in  the  case  of  Pra- 
japati  the  creator,  we  conclude  that  before  the  creation  the  words  of  the 
Veda  were  manifested  in  his  mind,  and  that  afterwards  he  created  the 
objects  which  resulted  from  them.  Thus  the  Vedic  text  which  says, 
'  uttering  Ihuh,  he  created  the  earth  (bhumi},  etc  ,'  intimates  that  the 
different  worlds,  earth,  and  the  rest,  were  manifested,  i.e.  created  from 
the  words  bhuh,  etc.,  manifested  in  his  mind.  Of  what  sort,  now,  was 
this  word  which  is  intended,  when  it  is  said  that  the  world  was  pro- 
duced from  the  word  ?  It  was  sphota,  (disclosure  or  expression),  we 
are  told." 

I  shall  not  quote  the  long  discussion  on  which  S'ankara  here  enters, 
regarding  this  term.  (See  Colebrooke's  Misc.  Ess.  i.  305  if. ;  Ballan- 
tyne's  Christianity  contrasted  with  Hindu  Philosophy,  pp.  192  ff. ;  the 
same  author's  translation  of  the  commencement  of  the  Mahabhashya, 
p.  10 ;  and  Professor  Muller's  article  on  the  last-named  work  in  the 
Journal  of  the  German  Or.  Soc.  vii.  170).  S'ankara  states  his  conclusion 

themselves  in  bodies  of  which  blood  (asrik]  is  a  predominant  element,  were  asrigrah, 
'  men.'  The  word  indu  (which  means  both  the  soma  plant  and  the  moon)  suggested 
the  fathers  who  dwell  in  the  moon,"  etc.,  etc.  The  sense  of  asrigram,  as  given  above 
in  the  text,  is  "  were  poured  out."  Govinda  Ananda,  no  doubt,  understood  it  correctly, 
though  he  considered  it  necessary  to  draw  a  mystical  sense  out  of  it. 


OF  THE   VEDAS,   HELD   BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  105 

i 

* 

to  be  that  "from  the  eternal  word, in  the  form  of  spJwta,  which  expresses 
[all  things],  the  object  signified  by  it,  viz.  the  world,  under  the  three 
characters  of  action,  causer,  and  the  results  of  action,  is  produced,"  and 
finishes  his^rehmrks  on  this  Sutrk  (i.  3,  28)  by«observing :  "  Consequently 
there  is  no  contradiction  in  saying  that  the  individual  gods,  etc.,  are  de- 
rive'd  from  eternal  words."  Hfe  then  proceeds  to  Sutra  i.  3,  29  :  "  'Hence 
results  the  eternity  o£  the  Vedas,'  "  On  this  he  observes,  "  The  eternity 
of  the  Veda  had*  been,  established  bythe  fact  of  its  being  described  in 
the  Smriti  as  the  work  of  *a  Self-dependent  Maker.  But  a  doubt  had 
been  suggested  that  this  eternity  is  inconsistent  with  the  admission  that 
individual  gods,  etc.,  have  commenced  to  exist.  This  doubt,  however, 
having  been  set  aside  by  the  preceding  aphorism,  '  Since  they  are  pro- 
duced from  it,'  he  noV  confirms  the  eternity  of  the  Veda  (which  had 
been  already  proved)  by  the  words  of  the  Sutra  before  us,  which  mean 
that  as  a  result  of  this  very  fact  that  the  world,  consisting  of  gods  and 
'  other  beings  belonging  to  fixed  species,  was  produced  from  the  words  of 
the  Vedas,  the  eternity  of  these  Vedic  words  themselves  also  must  be 
believed.  Accordingly,  the  words  of  the  hymn,  '  by  sacrifice  they  fol- 
lowed the  path  of  Vach,  and  found  her  entered  into  the  rishis '  (R. V. 
x.  71,  3  ;  see  the  First  Volume  of  this  work  p.  254,  and  Volume  Second, 
p.  220)  prove  that  Vach  already  existed  when  she  was  discovered.  And 
in  the  very  same  way  Vedavyasa  records  that,  '  formerly  the  great  rishis, 
empowered  by  Svayambhu,  obtained  through  devotion  the  Vedas  and 
Itihasas,  which  had  disappeared  at  the  end  of  the  preceding  yuga.'  " 

Sayana  refers  to  the  Sutra  just  quoted  (i.  3,  29),  as  well  as  to  another 
of  the  Vedanta  aphorisms  (i.  1,  3)  in  p.  20  of  the  introduction  to  his 
Commentary  on  the  Big-veda  in  these  words : 

Nanu  lhagavatd  Bddardyanena  Yedasya%Brahma-kdryyatvam  sutritam  \ 
"  sdstra-yonitvdd"  iti  \  rigvedddi-sdstra-kdranatvdd  Brahma  sarvajnam 
iti  sutrdrthah  \  Iddham  \  na  etdvatd  paurusheyatvam  lhavati  \  manushya- 
nirmitatvdlhdvdt  \  Idrisam  apaurusheyatvam  abhipretya  vyavahdra-dasd- 
ydm  dkd§ddi-vad  nityatvam  Bddardyanenaiva  devatfidhikarane  sutritam  \ 
"  ata  evacha  nityatvam  "  iti  \ 

"  But  it  is  objected  that  the  venerable  Badarayana  has  declared  in 
the  aphorism  '  since  he  is  the  source  of  the  sastra  (Brahma  Sutras  i.  1, 
3),  that  the  Veda  is  der>ved  from  Brahma  ;  ttte  meaning  of  the*  aphorism 
being,  that  since  Brahma  is  the  cause  of  the  Eig-veda  and  other  S'astras, 


106  OPINIONS   REGARDING  THE  ORIGIN,   ETC., 

he  is  omniscient.  This  is  true;  but  it  furnishes  no  proof  of  the 
human  origin  of  the  Veda,  since  it  was  not  formed  by  a  man.  Badara- 
yana  had  in  view  such  a  superhuman  origin  of  tbe  Yeda,  when  in  the 
[other]  aphorism  '  hence <also  [its]  eternity  is  to  be  maintained,'  (which 
is  contained  in  the  section  on  the  deities),  he  declared  it  to  be,  like 
the  sether,  etc.,  eternal,  during  the  period  of  mundane  existence."  104 

The  remarks  of  S'ankara  on  the  Brahma  Sutra  (i.  1(  3)  above  referred 
to,  begin  as  follows  : 

Mahatah  rig-vedddeh  sfistrasya  aneka-vidyd-sthdnopabrimhitasya  pra- 
dlpa-vat  sarvdrtha-dyotinas  sarvajna-kalpasya  yonih  kdranam  Brahma  \  na 
-hi  idrisasya  sdstrasya  rigvedddi-ldkshanasya  sarvajna-gunanvitasya  sar- 
vajndd  anyatah  samlhaco  'sti  \  Yad  yad  vistardrtham  sdstram  yasmdt 
purmha-viseshdt  samlhavati  yathd  vydkarcnddi  'Pdniny-dder  jneyaika- 
desdrtJiam  api  sa  tato  'py  adhikatara-vijndnah  iti  prasiddham  lolce  \  kimu 
vaktavyam  aneka  -  sdkhd  -  Iheda  -  Ihinnasya  deva  -  tiryan-  manushya-varnd- 
sramddi-pravilhdga-hetor  rig-vedddy-dkhyasya  sarva-jndndkarasya  apra- 
yatnena  eva  lild-nydyena  purusha-nisvdsa-vad  yasmdd  maJiato  bhiitdd 
yoneh  sambhavah  ("  asya  mahato  IJiutasya  nisvasitam  etad  yad  rig-vedah  " 
ity-ddeh  srutes]  tasya  mahato  Ihutasya  niraiisayam  sarvajnatvam  sarva- 
saktitvam  clia  iti  \ 

"  Brahma  is  the  source  of  the  great  S'astra,  consisting  of  the  Eig-veda, 
etc.,  augmented  by  numerous  branches  of  science,  which,  like  a  lamp, 
illuminates  all  subjects,  and  approaches  to  omniscience.  Now  such  a 
S'astra,  distinguished  as  the  Eig-veda,  etc.,  possessed  of  the  qualities  of 
an  omniscient  being,  could  not  have  originated  from  any  other  than  an* 
omniscient  being.  "When  an  extensive  treatise  on' any  subject  is  pro- 
duced by  any  individual,  as  the  works  on  Grammar,  etc.,  were  by 
Panini  and  others, — even  although  the  treatise  in  question  have  for  its 
subject  only  a  single  department  of  what  is  to  be  known, — it  is  a 


104  See  the  quotation  from  the  Vedartha-prakaii,  at  the  top  of  p.  70,  above.  The 
aether  (akasa)  is  uncreated  according  to  the  Vais'eshikas  (KOnada's  Sutras,  ii.  1,  28, 
with  S  'ankara  Mis'ra's  commentary,  and  S'ankara  Acharyya  on  Vedanta  Sutra,  ii.  3,  3  : 
Nahy  ahasasya  utpattih sambhavayituiri  s'akya  srImat-Kanabhug-abhiprayanusarishu 
jivatsu  |  "  The  production  of  tbe  aether  cannot  be  conceived  as  possible,  so  long  as 
those  who  follow  Kanada's  view  retain  their  vitality").  The  Vedanta  Sutras,  ii.  3, 
1-7,  on  thf  other  hand,  assert  its  production  by  Brahma,  in  conformity  with  the  text 
of  the  Taittirlyakas  which  affirms  this :  Tasmad  vai  etasmad  aimanah  akasah  sam- 
lihutah  |  "  From  ^hat  Soul  thf,  aether  was  produced." 


,          OF  THE   YEDAS,  HELD   BY  INDIAN   AUTHORS.  107 

» 

matter  of  notoriety  that  the  author  is  possessed  of  still  greater  know- 
ledge than  is  contained  in  his  work.105  What  then  need  we  say  of  the 
transcendent  omniscience  and  omnipotence  of  that  great  Being  from 
whom  issued  without  effort,  as  an  amusement,*like  a  man's  breathing 
(according  to  the  Yedic  text  '  the  Rig-veda  is  the  breathing  of  that 
great  Being'),  tttat  mine  of  universal  knowledge  called  the  Big-veda, 
etc.,  which  is  divMed'into  many  sakhas,  and  which  gave  rise  to  the 
classes  of  .gods,  beasts,  aad  men,  with  tKeir  castes  and  orders  ?  " 

It  is  'clear  from  the  aphorism  last  quoted  that  there  is  a  distinc-  . 
tion  between  the  doctrine  of  the  Purva  Mimansa,  and  the  TJttara 
Mimansa,  or  Vedanta,  regarding  the  origin  of  the  Veda,  in  so  far  as  the 
former  is  silent  on  the  subject  of  its  derivation  from  Brahma,  which  the 
latter  asserts.  It  is  also  to  'be  observed  that  Sayana  understands  the 
eternity  of  the  Yeda  as  laid  down  in  the  Brahma  Sutras  in  a  qualified 
sense  (as  limited  to  the  duration  of  the  mundane  period)  and  not  as  an 
absolute  eternity. 

I  may  remark  that  in  their  treatment  of  the  Yedic  passages  which 
they  cite,  the  practice  of  Badarayana,  the  author  of  the  Brahma  Sutras, 
and  of  his  commentator,  S'ankara  Acharyya,  corresponds  to  their  theory 
of  the  infallibility  of  the  sacred  text.  The  doctrines  inculcated  in 
the  Sutras,  and  expounded  and  vindicated  by  the  commentator,  pro- 
fess to  be  based  on  the  Yeda ;  and  numerous  texts  are  cited  in  their 
support.  Such  passages  as  coincide  with  the*  theories  maintained  in 
the  Sutras  are  understood  in  tfieir  proper  or  literal  (mukhya)  sense ; 

* 

105  Dr.  Ballantyne  (Aphorisms  of  the  Vedanta,  p.  8)  renders  the  last  words  thus  : 
.  .  .  .  "  that  man,  even  in  consideration  of  that,  is  inferred  to  be  exceedingly  knowing." 
Govinda  Ananda's  note,  however,  confirms  the  rendering  I  have  given.     Part  of  it  is 
as  follows  :  Yadj/ach  chhastram  yasmad  aptat  sambhavati  sa  tatah  sastrad  adhikhar- 
tha-jnanah  iti  prasiddham  \  "  It  is  well  known  that  the  competent  author  from  whom 
any  treatise  proceeds  has  a  knowledge  of  more  than  that  treatise  (contains)."     The 
idea  here  is  somewhat  similar  to  that  in  the  second  of  Bishop  Butler's  Sermons 
"  Upon  the  love  of  God"  :  "  Effect s4hemselves,  if  we  knew  them  thoroughly,  would 
give  us  but  imperfect  notions  of  wisdom  and  power ;  much  les»  of  his  Being  in  whom 
they  reside."  .  .  .  .  "  This  is  no  more  than  saying  that  the  Creator  is  superior  to  the 
works  of  his  hands." 

106  An  alternative  explanation  of  the  aphorism  is  given  by  the  commentator, 
according  to  which  it  would  mean  :  "  The  body  of  Scripture,  consisting  of  the  Rig- 
veda,  etc.,  is  the  source,  the  caase,  the  proof,  whereby  ws  ascertain  exactly  tfce  nature 
of  this  Brahma  "  (athava  yathoktam  rigvedadi-sastram  yonih  karanam  pramanam 
asya  Brahmano  yathavat  svarupadhigame).  ,  • 


108  OPINIONS   REGARDING   THE    ORIGIN,  ETC., 

whilst  other  texts  which  appear  to  be  at  variance  with  the  Yedantic  dog- 
mas, and  to  favour  those  of  the  other  philosophical  schools,  are  explained 
as  being  merely  figurative  (gauna  or  Ihulcta} ;  or  other  interpretations  are 
given.  See,  for  examplfe,  the  Brahma  sutras,"i.  1,  6  ;  ii.  4, ,°  f.,  etc.,  with 
S'ankara's  comments.  The  supposition  of  any  real  inconsistency  between 
the  different  statements  of  the  sacred  volume  is  never  for  a  moment 
entertained.107  As,  however,  the  different  authers  cf  the  Yedic  hymns, 
of  the  Brahmanas,  and  even  ox  the  Upanishads,  gave  free  expression  to 
their  own  vague  and  unsystematic  ideas  and  speculations  on  ttie  origin 
of  all  things,  and  the  relation  of  the  Deity  to  the  universe,  and  re- 
cognized no  fixed  standard  of  orthodox  doctrine  to  which  they  were 
bound  to  conform, — it  was  inevitable  that  they  should  propound  a 
great  variety  of  opinions  which  were  mutually  irreconcilable.  But  as, 
in  later  times,  the  Vedas  came  to  be  regarded  as  supernatural  and  in- 
fallible books,  it  was  necessary  that  those  systematic  theologians  who 
sought  to  deduce  from  their  contents  any  consistent  theory  of  being  and 
of  creation,  should  attempt  to  shew  that  the  discrepancies  between  the 
different  texts  were  only  apparent. 


SECT.  IX. — Arguments  of  the  followers  of  the  Nydya,  Vaiseshika,  and 
Sdnkhya  Systems  in  support  of  the  authority  of  the   Vedas,   but 

against  the  eternity  of  sound. 

• 

I.  The  Nydya. — The  eternity  of  sound  is,  as  we  have  already  dis- 
covered from  the  allusions  of  the  Mimansaka  commentator,  (above  p.  73), 
denied  by  the  followers  of  the  Nyaya  school.  The  consideration  of  this 
subject  is  begun  in  the  following  way  in  the  Nyaya  aphorisms  of  Go- 
tama,  as  explained  by  Visvanatha  Bhattacharya  in  the,  Nyaya-sutra- 
vritti,  ii.  81  : 

107  See  S'ankara  on  the  Br.  Sutras,  iii.  31  (p4  844  of  Bibl.  Indica),  where  he  says, 
yadi  punar  ekasmin  Brahmani  bahuni  vijnariani  vedantantweshupratipipadayishitani 
tesham  ekam  abhrantam  bhrantani  itarani  ity  anasvasa-prasango  vedanteshu  tasiriad  na 
tavat  prativedantam  Brahma-vijnana-bhedah  asankitum  sakyate  \  "  If,  again,  in  the 
different  Vedantas  (i.e.  Upanishads)  a  variety  of  conceptions  regarding  the  one  Brahma 
be  sought  to  be  established,  one  of  these  (conceptions)  will  be  correct,  and  the  others 
erroneous,  and  thus  the  objection  of  being  untrustworthy  will  attach  to  the  Upani- 
shads. It  must  not,  therefore,  be  suspected  that  there  is  in  each  of  the  Upanishads 
a  different  conception  of  Brahma." 


OF    THE   VEDAS,   HELD   BY  INDIAN   AUTHORS.  109 

» 

i 

Tedasya  prdmdnyam  dpta-prdmdnydt  siddham  \  na  cha  idam  yujyate 
redasya  nityatvdd  ity  dsankdydm  varndndm  anityatvdt  katham  tat-samu- 
ddya-rupasya  vedasya  nityatvam  ity  dsayena  sabddnityatva-prakaranam 
drabhate  \  tatfa'siddhdnta-£utram'\  "Adimattvad  aindriyakatvdt  krita- 
katvdd  upachdrdch  cha"  \  81.  S'aldo  'nityah  ityddih  \  ddimattvdt  sakd- 
ranakalvdt' '\  nanu  na  sakdrantikatvam  kantha-tdlv-ddy -abhighdtdder 
vyanjakdtvendpy  u/papatfer  atah  aha  aindriyakatvdd  iti  sdmdnyavattve 
sati  vahir-indriya-j»nya-laukikika-pratyalcsha-vishayatvdd  ity  arthah  \ 
....  Aprayojakatvam  dsanfcya  aha  kritaketi  \  Jcritake  ghatddau  yathd 
upachdro  jndnam  tathaiva  kdryyatva-prakdraka-pratyaksha-vishayatvdd 
ity  arthah  \  tathd  cha  kdryatvena  andhdryya-sdrvalaukika-pratyaksha- 
laldd  anityatvam  eva  siddhati  \ 

"  It  has  been  proved  (In  the.,68th  Sutra,  see  below)  that '  the  authority 
of  the  Veda  follows  from  the  authority  of  the  competent  person  who  made 
it.'  But  it  may  be  objected  that  this  is  not  a  proper  ground  on  which 
to  base  the  authority  of  the  Veda,  since  it  is  eternal.  With  the  view 
of  proving,  in  opposition  to  this,  that  since  letters  are  not  eternal,  the 
Veda,  which  is  a  collection  of  letters,  cannot  be  so  either,  the  author  of 
the  Sutras  commences  the  section  on  the  non-eternity  of  sound.  The 
Sutra  laying  down  the  established  doctrine,  is  as  follows  :  '  Sound  can- 
not be  eternal,  as  (1)  it  had  an  origin,  as  (2)  it  is  cognizable  by  sense, 
and  (3)  it  is  spoken  of  as  factitious.'  Sound  is  non-eternal,  etc.,  because 
(1)  it  had  a  beginning,  i.e.  because  it  had  a  cause.  But  it  may  be  said 
that  it  had  no  cause,  as,  agreeably  to  the  doctrine  of  the  Mlmansakas 
(see  above,  p.  74),  the  action  of  the  throat  and  palate  in  pronunciation 
may  merely  occasion  a  manifestation  of  sound  [without  creating  it].  In 
reply  to  this  it  is  said  (2)  that  sound  is  cognizable  by  sense,  i.e.  that 
though  it  belongs  to  a  genus,  it  is  an  ol?ject  of  ordinary  perception 
through  an  external  sense."  [A  different  explanation  given  by  other 
interpreters  is  next  quoted,  which  I  omit.]  ..."  Then  surmising  that 
the  preceding  definition  may  be  regarded  as  not  to  the  point,  the 
author  addg  the  wor<?«  '  since  it  is  spoken  of  as  facetious,'  i.e.  as  jars 
and  other  such  objects  are  spoken  of  as — are  known  to  be — products,  so, 
too,  sound  is  distinguishable  by  sense  as  being  in  the  nature  of  a  pro- 
duct. And  in  consequence  of  this  incontrovertible  and  universal  per- 
ception of  its  being  produced,  it  is  proved  that  it  cannot  be  eternal." 
[Two  other  explanations  of  this  last  clause  of  the  Sutra  arej;hen  added.] 


110  OPINIONS  REGARDING    THE   ORIGIN,   ETC., 

Leaving  the  reader  to  study  the  details  of  the  discussion  in  Dr.  Bal- 
lantyne's  aphorisms  of  the  JSTyaya  (Part  Second,  pp.  77  ff.),  I  will  pass 
over  most  of  the  Sutras,  and  merely  quote  the  principal  conclusions  of 
the  Nyaya  aphorist.  lu  Sutra  86  he  says  in  opposition,  to  the  13th 
Sutra  of  the  Mimansa  (above,  p.  74) : 

86.  "  Prug  uchchdrandd  anupalambhdd  avaranady ~  anupalabdeh"  \ 
S'abdo  yadi  nityah  syud  uchchdrandt  prdg  apy  upalafihyeta  srotra-sanni- 
karsha-sattvdt  \  na  cha  atra  praiilandhaliam  a$ti  ity*  aha  uvaraneti  dva- 
randdeh  pratilandhakasya  anupalabdhyd  abhdva-nirnaydt  \  dtsdntara- 
gamanam  tu  saldasya  amurttatvdd  na  sambhdvyate  \  atlndriydnanta- 
pratilandhakatva-lcalpanam  apekshya  salddnityatva-kalpand  eva  laghl- 
yasl  iti  bhdvah  \  u 

"  ^  Sound  is  not  eternal,  because  it  is  not  perceived  before  it  is 
uttered,  and  because  we  do  not  perceive  anything  which  should  inter- 
cept it.'  If  sound  were  eternal,  it  would  be  perceived  even  before  it  was 
uttered,  from  its  being  in  contact  with  the  ear.  [Sound,  as  Dr.  Ballan- 
tyne  explains,  is  '  admitted  to  be  a  quality  of  the  all-pervading  aBther.'] 
And  in  the  next  words  the  aphorist  says  that  there  is  no  obstacle  to  its 
being  so  heard,  since  the  non-existence  of  any  hindrance,  such  as  an 
intercepting  medium,  is  ascertained  by  our  not  perceiving  anything  of 
that  sort.  And  it  is  not  conceivable  that  sound  should  have  gone  to 
another  place  [and  for  that  reason  be  inaudible],  since  it  has  no  denned 
form.  The  supposition  that  sound  is  non-eternal,  is  simpler  than  the 
supposition  that  there  are  an  infinity  of  imperceptible  obstacles  to  its 
perception." 

The  89th  and  90th  Sutras,  with  part  of  the  comments  on  them,  are 
as  follows : 

89.  "Asparsatvdt"  \  sabdd  nityah  \  asparsatvad gagana-vad iti lhavah  \ 
90.  "JVa  Jcarmunityatvat "  asparsvatvaiii  na  sabda-nityatva-sudhakafii  kar- 
mani  ryalhicharut  \ 

89.  "  It  may  be  said  that  sound  is  eternal,  from  its  being,  like  the 
sky,  intangible.  90.  But  this  is  no  proof,  for  the <dii tangibility  of  sound 
does  not  establish  its  eternity,  since  these  two  qualities  do  not  always 
go  together ;  for  intangibility,  though.predicable,  e.g.  of  action,  fails  to 
prove  its  eternity." 

The  '100th  and  following  Sutras  are  as  follows  : 

100.  " Vinjlsa-kdrandnupala'bdheh"  \  101.  "Asravana-kdranunupalal- 


,          OF    THE  VEDAS,   HELD    BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  HI 

dheh  satata-iravana-prasangah"    \    Yady  apratyakshdd  abhdva-siddhis 
tadd  '  sravana-kdranasya  apratyakshatvdd  asravanam  na  sydd  iti  satata- 

sravana-prasanqah*iti  'phdvah  I    102.  "  Upalalhyamdne  cha  anupalabdher 

'»  t 

asattvdd  awpadesah"    j* Anumdnddind   upalhlhyamdne  vindsa-kdrane 

anupalabdher  abhdvdt  tvadlyo  hetur  anapadesah  asddhakah  asiddhatvdt  \ 
janya-lhdvatvencl  vindsa-kalpanam  iti  bhdvah  \ 

"It  is  said  (10ft)  that  'sjund  must  be  eternal,  because  we  perceive 
no  cause  .why  it  should  «easef'  The  answer  is  (101),  first,  c  that  if  the 
non-existence  of  any  such  cause  of  cessation  "were  established  by  the. 
mere  fact  of  its  not  being  perceived,  such  non-perception  would  occasion 
our  hearing  continually,  which  is  an  absurdity.'  And  (102),  secondly, 
'  since  such  non -perception  is  not  a  fact,  inasmuch  as  [a  cause  of  the 
cessation  of  sound]  is  perceived,  this  argument  falls  to  the  ground.' 
Since  a  cause  for  the  cessation  of  sound  is  discovered  by  inference,  etc., 
and  thus  the  non-perception  of  any  cause  is  seen  to  be  untrue,  this 
argument  of  yours  proves  nothing,  because  its  correctness  is  not  estab- 
lished. The  purport  is  that  we  suppose,  from  sound  being  produced, 
that  it  must  also  be  liable  to  perish." 

Sutras  106-122  are  occupied  with  a  consideration  of  the  question 
(above  treated,  pp.  73,  74,  in  Sutras  10  and  16  of  the  Mimansa)  whether 
letters  can  change  or  not.  The  conclusion  at  which  Gotama  arrives  is, 
that  the  substance  of  letters  cannot  undergo  any  alteration,  though  they 
may  be  said  to  change  when  they  are  modified  in  quality  by  being 
lengthened,  shortened,  etc.  • 

In  a  preceding  part  of  the  Second  Book  (Sutras  57-68)  Gotama  treats 
of  the  Yeda,  and  repels  certain  charges  which  are  alleged  against  its 
authority.  I  shall  quote  most  of  these  aphorisms,  and  cite  the  com- 
mentary more  fully  than  Dr.  Ballantyne  has  done.  (See  Ballantyne's 
Nyaya  Aphorisms,  Part  ii.  pp.  56  if.) 

S'aldasya  drishtddrishttirtJiakatvena  dvaividhyam  uktam  tatra  cha, 
adrisktdrthaka-sabdasya  vedas^a  prdmdnyam  parlkshitum  purva-paksha- 
yati  |  57.*"Tad-aprtimtinyam  anrita-vydghdta-punarulda-doshelhyah  "  \ 
Tasya  drishtdrthaka-vyatirikta-sabdasya  vedasya  aprdmdnyam  \  kutah  \ 
anritahddi-doshdt  \  tatra  cha  putreshti-kdryddau  kvachit  phaldnutpatti- 
darsandd  anritatvam  \  vydghdiah  purvdpara-virodhah  \  yathd  "udite 
juhoti  anudite  juhoti  samayddhyushite  juhoti  \  sydvo'sya  dhutim^ilJiyava- 
harati  ya  udite  juhoti  savalo  'sya  ahutim  alhyavaJiarati  yojnudite  juhoti 


112  OPINIONS   REGARDING   THE    ORIGIN,    ETC. 

tydva-savaldv  asya  dhutim  alhyavaharato  yah  samayddhyushite  juhoti " 
atra  cha  uditddi-vdkydndm  ninddnumitdnishta-sddhanatd-lodhaka-vdkya- 
virodhah  \  paunaruktydd  aprdmdnyam  \  Yathd  "  trih  prithamdm  anvdha  \ 
trir  uttamdm  anvdha"  \  iPy  atra  uttamatvasyaprathamatva-pwyavasdndt 
trih  Icathanena  cha  paunaruktyam  \  eteshdm  aprdmdnye  tad-drishtdntena 
tad-eka-karttrikatvena  tad-elca-jdtlyatvena  vd  sarva-veddprdmdnyam  sddha- 
nlyam  iti  Ihdvah  \  siddhdnta-sutram  \  58.  "JV0  k^rmA'-karttri-sddhana- 
vaigunydt"  \  Na  veddprdmdnyaffl  lcarma-lcarttri-*ddhana-vaigunudt  pha- 
Idbhdvopapatteh  \  karmandh  Icriydydh  vaigunyam  ayathdvidhitvddi\  kart- 
tur  vaigunyam  avidvattvddi  \  sddhanasya  havir-dder  vaigunyam  dprokshi- 
tatvddi  |  Yathokta-karmanah  phaldlhdve  hy  anritatuam  \  na  cha  evam 
asti  iti  bhdvah  \  vydghdtam  pariharati  \  59.  "  Abhyupetya  kdla-lhede 
dosha-vachandtn  \  na  vydghdtah  iti  seshah1  \  Agny-ddhdna-kdle  udita- 
homddikam  alhyupetya  smkritya  anudita-homddi-karane  ptirvokta-dosha- 
kathandd  na  vydghdtah  ity  arthah  \  paunaruktyam  pariharati  \  60. 
"Anuvddopapattes  cha"  \  chah  punar-arthe  \  anuvddopapatteh  punar  na 
paunaruktyam  \  nishprayojanatve  hi  paunaruktyam  doshah  \  ukta-sthale 
tv  anuvddasya  upapatteh  prayojanasya  sanibhavdt  \  ekddasa-sdmidhenlndm 
prathamottamayos  trir  alhidhdne  hi  panchadaiatvam  samlhavati  \  tathd- 
cha  panchadaiatvam  Sruyate  \  "Imam  aham  Hhrdtrivyam  panchadasdva- 
rena  vdg-vajrena  cha  Iddhe  yo  'smdn  dveshti  yam  cha  vayam  dvishmah" 
iti  \  Anuvddasya  sdrthakatvam  loka-prasiddham  iti  dha  \  61.  "Vdkya- 
vilhdgasya  cha  artha-grahandt"  \  Vdkya-vibhdgasya  \  anuvddatvena 
vibhakta-vdkyasya  artha  -  grahandt  prayojana  -  svlkdrdt  \  sishtair  iti 
seshah  \  &ishtdh  hi  vidhdyakdnuvddakddi-bhedena  vdkydm  vilhajya  anu- 
vddakasydpi  saprayojanatvam  manyante  \  Vede  'py  evam  iti  Ihdvah  \  .  .  . 
Evam  aprdmdnya-sddhalcam  nirasya  prdmdnyam  sddhayati  \  68.  "  Man- 
trdyurveda-vach  cha  tat-prdmdnyam  dpta-prdmdnydt "  |  Aptasya  veda- 
karttuh  prdmdnydd  yathdrthopadesakatvdd  vedasya  tad-uktatvam  arthdl 
labdham  \  tena  hetund  vedasya  prdmdnyam  anumeyam  \  tatra  drishtdntam 
dha  mantrdyurveda-vad  iti  \  mantro  vishGdi-ndsaJcah  \  dyurveda-lhdgas 
cha  veda-sthah  eva  \  tatra  samvddena  prdmdnya-grdndt  tad-drishtdntena 
vedatvdvachhedena  prdmdnyam  anumeyam  \  dptam  grihltam  prdmdnyam 
yatra  sa  vedas  tddrisena  vedatvena  prdmdnyam  anumeyam  iti  kechit  \ 

"  It  had  been  declared  (Nyaya  Sutras,  i.  8)  that  verbal  evidence  is  of 
two  kind's,  (1)  that  of  which  the  subject-matter  is  seen,  and  (2)  that  of 
which  the  subject-matter  is  unseen.  "With  the  view,  now,  of  testing 


OF    THE    VEDAS,   HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  113 

the  authority  of  that  verbal  evidence  which  refers  to  unseen  things, 
viz.  the  Veda,  Gotama  states  the  first  side  of  the  question.  Sutra  57. 
'  The  Veda  has  nq,  authority,  since  it  has  the  defects  of  falsehood,  self- 
con  tradictloy,  and  tautology.'  T*hat  verbal  evidence,  which  is  distinct 
from  such  as  relates  to  visible  objects,  i.e.  the  Veda,  has  no  authority. 
Why'?  Because  it  has  the  defects  of  falsehood,  etc.  Of  these  defects, 
that  of  '  falsehood  5  is  established  by  the  fact  that  we  sometimes  observe 
that  no  fruit  results  frorp.  performing  tlfe  sacrifice  for  a  son,  or  the  like. 
'  Self-contradiction '  is  a  discrepancy  between  a  former  and  a  later . 
declaration.  Thus  the  Veda  says,  '  he  sacrifices  when  the  sun  is  risen; 
he  sacrifices  when  the  sun  is  not  yet  risen ;  he  sacrifices '  [I  cannot  ex- 
plain the  next  words].  , '  A  tawny  [dog?]  carries  away  the  oblation  of 
him  who  sacrifices  after  the-  sun  has  risen ;  a  brindled  [dog  ?]  carries 
off  the  oblation  of  him  who  sacrifices  before  the  sun  has  risen ;  and 
both  of  these  two  carry  off  the  oblation  of  him  who  sacrifices.'  .... 
Now  here  there  is  a  contradiction  between  the  words  which  enjoin 
sacrifices,  and  the  words  which  intimate  by  censure  that  those  sacrifices 
will  occasion  disastrous  results.  Again,  the  Veda  has  no  authority, 
owing  to  its  'tautology,'  as  where  it  is  said,  'he  repeats  the  first 
thrice,  he  repeats  the  last  thrice.'  For  as  the  lastness  ultimately  coin- 
cides with  [?]  the  firstness,  and  as  there  is  a  triple  repetition  of  the 
words,  this  sentence  is  tautological.  Now  since  these  particular  sen- 
tences have  no  authority,  the  entire  Veda  will  be  proved  by  these 
specimens  to  stand  in  the  sam«f  predicament,  since  all  its  other  parts 
have  the  same  author,  or  are  of  the  same  character,  as  these  portions." 

Here  follows  the  Sutra  which  conveys  the  established  doctrine.  "58. 
'  The  Veda  is  not  false  ;  it  is  owing  to  some  fault  in  the  ceremonial,  or 
the  performer,  or  the  instrument  he  employs,  that  any  sacrifice  is  not 
followed  by  the  promised  results.'  Faults  in  the  ceremonial  are  such 
as  its  not  being  according  to  rule.  Faults  in  the  performer  are  such  as 
ignorance.  Faults  in  the  instrument,  i.e.  in  the  clarified  butter,  etc., 
are  such  as,  its  not  btfing  duly  sprinkled,  etc.  For  falsehood  might  be 
charged  on  the  Veda,  if  no  fruit  resulted  from  a  sacrifice  when  duly 
performed  as  prescribed  ;  but  such  failure  never  occurs." 

Gotama  next  repels  the  charge  of  self-contradiction  in  the  Vedas. 
"59.  '  There  is  no  self-contradiction,  for  the  fault  is  only  imp*uted  in 
case  the  sacrifice  should  be  performed  at  a  different  time  from  that 


114  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

at  first  intended.'  The  fault  imputed  to  these  sacrifices  in  the  text  in 
question  would  [only]  be  imputed  if^  after  agreeing,  at  the  time  of 
placing  the  sacrificial  fire,  to  perform  the  sacrifice  after  sunrise,  one 
were  to  change  it  to  a  sacrifice  before  sunriso ;  there  is,  therefore,  no 
self-contradiction  in  the  passage  referred  to." 

He  next  rebuts  the  charge  of  tautology.  "  60.  '  The  Yeda  is  not  tau- 
tological because  repetition  may  be  proper.'  TJie  particle  cha  means 
'  again.'  '  Again,  since  repetition  may  be  proper^  theio  is  no  tautology.' 
.For  repetition  is  only  &  'fault  when  it  is  useless.  But  in  the 'passage 
referred  to,  since  repetition  is  proper,  its  utility  is  apparent.  For  when 
the  first  and  the  last  of  the  eleven  samidhems  (forms  of  prayer  used  on 
throwing  fuel  into  the  fire)  are  each  repeated  thrice,  the  whole  number 
of  verses  will  be  made  up  to  fifteen.108  Accordingly,  this  number  of 
fifteen  is  mentioned  in  these  words  of  the  Veda,  '  I  smite  this  enemy 
who  hates  us,  and  whom  we  hate,  with  the  last  of  the  fifteen  verses> 
and  with  the  thunderbolt  of  my  words.'  " 

He  next  observes  that  the  advantage  of  repetition  is  commonly  re- 
cognised. "61.  '  And  the  Veda  is  not  tautological,  because  the  utility 
of  this  division  of  discourse  is  admitted,'  i.e.  because  the  necessity  for 
such  a  division  of  language,  that  is,  of  a  description  of  language  charac- 
terized as  reiterative,  is  acknowledged,  viz.  by  the  learned.  For  by 
dividing  language  into  the  different  classes  of  injunctive,  reiterative* 
etc.,  learned  men  recognise  the  uses  of  the  reiterative  also.  And  this 
applies  to  the  Veda."  v  • 

The  author  of  the  aphorisms  then  proceeds  to  state  and  to  define  (in 
Sutras  62-67)  the  different  sorts  of  discourse  employed  in  the  Veda, 
and  to  defend  the  propriety  of  reiteration.  "  Having  thus  refuted  the 
arguments  which  aim  at  showing  that  the  Veda  is  of  no  authority,  he 
goes  on  to  prove  its  authority.  68.  '  The  authority  of  the  Veda,  like 
that  of  the  formulas,  and  the  Ayur-veda  (treatise  on  medicine)  follows 
from  the  authority  of  the  competent  [^persons  from  whom  they  pro- 
ceeded].' Since  the  competent  maker  of  the  Vecla  possesse^  authority, 
i.e.  inculcates  truth,  it  results  from  the  force  of  the  terms  that  the  Veda 
was  uttered  by  a  person  of  this  character ;  and  by  this  reasoning  the  au- 

108  If,*here  are  in  all  elevin  formulas,  and  two  of  these  are  each  repeated  thrice,  we 
have  (2  x  3  =)  six  to  add  to  the  nine  (which  remain  of  the  original  eleveii),  making 
(6  +  9  =)  fifteen.  See  Mailer's  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  pp.  89  and  393. 


,  OF   THE   VEDAS,    HELD   BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  115 

i 

thority  of  the  Veda  is  to  be  inferred.  He  illustrates  this  by  the  case  of 
the  formulas  and  the  Ayur-veda.  By  formulas  (mantra]  are  meant  the 
sentences  which  '"neutralize  poispn,  etc.,  and  the  section  containing  the 
Ayur-veda'Jforms  part  of*  the  Veda.  Now  as  the  authority  of  these  two 
classes  <}f  writings  is  admitted  by  general  consent,  the  authority  of 
everything  which  possesses  the  characteristics  of  the  Veda  must  be 
inferred  from  this  ekampte.  Some,  however,  explain  the  aphorism 
thus :  ?,  Veda  is  that  rii  which  authority  is  found  or  recognised.  From 
such  vedicity  (or  possession  of  the  character  of»  a  Veda)  the  authority 
of  any  work  is  to  be  inferred." 

I  add  the  greater  part  of  the  more  detailed  and  distinct  exposition 
of  this  aphorism  given  by  the  commentator  Vatsyayana  (Bibliotheca 
Indica,  p.  91) : 109 

Kim  punar  dyurvedasya  prdmdnyam  \  yad  dyurvedena  upadisyate 
idam  kritvd  ishtam  adhigachchhati  idam  varjjayitvd  'nishtam  jahdti 
tasya  anushthiyamdnasya  tathd  -  bhdvah  satydrthatd  -  'viparyyayah  \ 
mantra  -  paddndm  cha  visha  -  bhutdsani  - pratishedhdrthdndm  prayoge 
'rthasya  tathd-bhdvah  etat  prdmdnyam  \  kim-kritam  etat  \  dpta-prd- 
mdnya-kritam  \  kim  punar  dptdndm  prdmdnyam  \  sdkshdt-krita-dhar- 
matd  bhiita-dayd  yathd-bhutdrtha-chikhydpayishd  iti  \  dptdh  khalu  sdk- 
shdt-krita-dharmdnah  idam  hdtavyam  ayam  asya  hdni-hetur  idam  asya 
adhigantavyam  ayam  asya  adhigamana-hetur  iti  bhutdny  anukampante  \ 
teshdfh  khalu  vai  prtina-bhritdm  svayam  anavaludhyamdndndm  na  anyad 
upadesdd  avalodha-ktiranam  asti  \  na  cha  anavabodhe  sarnlhd  varjjanam  vd  \ 
na  vd  alritvd  svasti^bhuvah  \  nd  'py  asya  anyah  upakdraho  'py  asti  \  hanta 
vayam  ebhyo  yathd-darsanam  yathd-bhutam  upadisdmah  \  te  ime  srutvd 
pratipadyamdndh  heyam  hdsyanty  adhigantavyam  eva  adhigamishyanti 
iti  \  evam  qptopadesah  etena  tri-vidhena  dpta-prdmdnyena  parigrihlto 
'nushthlyamdno  'rthasya  sddhako  bhavati  \  evam  dptopadesah  pramdnam 
evam  dptdh  pramdnam  \  drishtdrthena  dptopadesena  ayurvedena  adrish- 
tdrtho  veda-bhdgo  'numdtavyah  pramdnam  iti  \  dpta-prdmdnyasya  hetoh 
samdnatvifd iti  \  asya  api  cha  eka-deso  "  grdma-Mmo  yaj'ela"  ity  evam-ddi- 
drishtdrthas  tena  anumdtavyam  iti  \  loke  cha  bhuydn  upadesdsrayo  vya- 
vahdrah  \  laukikasya  apy  upadeshtur  upadestavydrtha-jndnena  pardnuji- 
ghrikshayd  yathd-bhutdrtha-chikhydpayishayd  c,ha  prdmdnyam  \  ^at-pari- 

109  A  small  portion  of  this  comment,  borrowed  from  Professor  Banerjea's  Dialogues 
on  Hindu  philosophy,  was  given  in  the  1st  edition  of  this  vol.  p.  210. 


116  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,    ETC., 

grahdd  dptopadesah  pramdnam  iti  \  drashtri-pravalctri-sdmdnydch  cha 
anumdnam  ye  eva  dptdh  veddrthdndm  dmshtdrah  pravakttiras  cha  te  eva 
dyurveda-prabhritlndm  \  ity  dyurveda-prdmdnyc-vad  veda-prdmdnyam 
anumdtavyam  iti  \  nityafvad  veda-vdkhydndm' pramdnatve  fat-prdmdn- 
yam  dpta-prdmdnydd  ity  ayuldam  \  saldasya  vdchakatvtid  artha-prati- 
pattau  pramdnatvam  na  nityatvdt  \  nityatve  hi  sarvasya  s'arvena  vachandch 
chhalddrtha-vyavasthd  'nupapattih  \  na  anifyatve  *cdcltakatvam  iti  chet  \ 
no,  \  laukikeshv  adarsandt  \  te  'pi  nitydh  {ti  chst  \  na  \  andptopadesdd 
wrtha-visamvado  'nupapahnah  |  .  .  .  .  Manvantara-yugdntareshu  cha  atl- 
tdndgateshu  sampraddydlhydsa-prayogdvichhedo  veddndm  nityatvam  dpta- 
prdmdnydch  cha  prdmdnyam  \  laukikeshu  saldeshu  cha  etat  samdnam  \ 

"  On  what  then  does  the  authority  of  the  Ayur-veda  depend?  The 
Ayur-veda  instructs  us  that  to  do  so  and  so,  is  the  means  of  attaining 
what  is  desirable,  and  to  avoid  so  and  so  is  the  means  of  escaping  what 
is  undesirable :  and  the  fact  of  such  action  having  been  followed  by  the 
promised  result  coincides  with  the  supposition  that  the  book  declares 
what  is  true.  So,  too,  the  authority  of  the  formulae  for  neutralizing 
poison,  repelling  demons,  and  arresting  lightning,  is  shewn  by  their 
application  fulfilling  its  object.  How  is  this  result  obtained  ?  By 
the  authoritativeness  of  competent  persons.  But  what  is  meant  by  the 
authoritativeness  of  competent  persons  ?  It  means  their  intuitive  per- 
ception of  duty,  their  benevolence  to  all  creatures,  and  their  desire  to 
declare  the  truth  of  things.  Competent  persons  are  those  who  have  an 
intuitive  perception  of  duty ;  and  they  shew  their  betfevolence  to  all 
creatures  by  pointing  out  that  so  and  so  is  to  be  avoided,  and  that  such 
and  such  are  the  means  of  avoiding  it,  and  that  so  and  so  is  to  be 
attained,  and  that  such  and  such  are  the  means  of  attaining  it.  '  For 
these  creatures,'  they  reflect,  '  being  themselves  unaware  of  such  things, 
have  no  other  means  of  learning  them  except  such  instruction ;  and 
in  the  absence  of  information  they  can  make  no  effort  either  to  attain 
or  avoid  anything;  whilst  without  su."h  action  their  welfare  is  not 
secured ;  and  there  is  no  one  else  who  can  help  iti  this  casr  :  come  let 
us  instruct  them  according  to  the  intuition  we  possess,  and  in  con- 
formity with  the  reality ;  and  they  hearing,  and  comprehending,  will 
avoid  what  should  be  avoided,  and  obtain  what  should  be  obtained.' 
Thus  the  instruction  afforded  by  competent  persons  according  to  this 
threefold  character  of  their  authoritativeness  [viz.  (1)  intuition,  (2) 


t  OF    THE    VEDAS,   HELD    BY  INDIAN    AUTHORS.     '        117 

benevolence,  and  (3)  desire  to  teach],  being  received,  and  acted  upon, 
effects  the  object  desired.  And  so  the  instruction  given  by  competent 
persons  is  authority,,  and  these  competent  persons  are  authorities. 
From  the  Ayur-veda,  which  conveys  instruction  given  by  competent 
persons  in  reference  to  objects  perceptible  by  the  senses,  it  is  to  be 
inferred  that  that  part  also  o'f  the  Yeda  which  is  concerned  with  im- 
perceptible objects110*  is  authoritative,  since  the  cause,  the  authori- 
tativeness  of  competent  persons,  is  tile  same  in  both  cases ;  and  the 
same  inference  is  to  be  drawn  from  the  fact  ,that  a  portion  of  the 
injunctions  of  the  last  mentioned  part  of  the  Yeda  also  have  reference 
to  perceptible  objects,  as  in  the  case  of  the  precept,  '  Let  the  man  who 
desires  landed  property  sacrifice,'  etc.,  etc.  In  common  life,  too,  men 
usually  rely  upon  instruction.  And  the  authority  of  an  ordinary  in- 
structor depends  (1)  upon  his  knowledge  of  the  matter  to  be  taught, 
(2)  upon  his  disposition  to  shew  kindness  to  others,  and  (3)  upon  his 
desire  to  declare  the  truth.  From  its  being  accepted,  the  instruction 
imparted  by  competent  persons  constitutes  proof.  And  from  the  fact  that 
the  seers  and  declarers  are  the  same  in  both  cases,  viz.  that  the  com- 
petent seers  and  declarers  of  the  contents  of  the  (rest  of  the)  Yeda  are 
the  very  same  as  those  of  the  Ayur-veda,  etc.,  we  must  infer  that  the 
authoritativeness  of  the  former  is  like  that  of  the  latter.  But  on  the 
hypothesis  that  the  authority  of  the  Yedic  injunctions  is  derived  from 
their  eternity,  it  will  be  improper  to  say  that  it  arises  from  the  autho- 
ritativeness of  competent  persons,  since  the  authority  of  words  as  ex- 
ponents of  meanings  springs  from  their  declarative  character,  and  not 
from  their  eternity.  For  on  the  supposition  of  the  eternity  of  words, 
every  (word)  would  express  every  (thing),  which  would  be  contrary  to 
the  fixity  of  their  signification.  If  it  be  'objected  that  unless  words  are 
eternal,  they  cannot  be  declarative,  we  deny  this,  as  it  is  not  witnessed 
in  the  case  of  secular  words.  If  it  be  urged  again  that  secular  words 
also  are  eternal,  we  must  again  demur,  since  the  discrepancy  of  purport 
arising  fr<vn  the  injunctions  of  incompetent  persons»would  be  at  variance 
with  this."  After  some  further  argumentation  Yatsyayana  concludes : 
"  The  eternity  of  the  Yedas  [really]  consists  in  the  unbroken  continuity 
of  their  tradition,  study,  and  application,  both  in  the  Manvantaras  and 

110  Compare  the  commentator's  remarks  introductory  to  the  Nyaya  aphorism  ii.  57, 
quoted  above,  p.  112.  » 


118  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,    ETC., 

Yugas  which  are  past,  and  those  which  are  to  come ;  whilst  their  au- 
thority arises  from  the  authoritativeness  of  the  competent  persons  (who 
uttered  them).  And  this  is  common  to  them  with  secular  words." 

The  phrase  sdkshat-knta-dharmdnah,  "possessing  an  intuitive  per- 
ception of  duty,"  which  is  employed  by  Vatsyayana  in  the  preceding 
extract  as  a  definition  of  dptdh,  "competent  persons,"  is-  one  which  had 
previously  been  applied  by  Yaska  (Nirukta,  i.  20)  to  .describe  the  character 
of  the  rishis :  Sdkshdt-krita-dha.'mdnah  ri&hayo  Jbabhwjuh  \  te  'varebhyo 
'  sakshat-krita-dharmabhy&h  upadesena  mantrdn  samprtiduh  \  upadesdya 
gldyanto  'vare  lilma-grahanaya  imam  grantham  samdmndsishur  vedam 
cha  veddngdni  cha  \  "  The  rishis,  who  had  an  intuitive  perception  of 
duty,  handed  down  the  hymns  by  (oral)  instruction  to  men  of  later 
ages,  who  had  not  that  intuitive  perception.  These,  declining  in  their 
power  of  giving  instruction,  compiled  this  work  (the  Nirukta),  the 
Veda,  and  the  Vedangas,  in  order  to  facilitate  the  comprehension  of 
details." 

The  Vaiseshika. — Among  the  aphorisms  of  this  system  also  there  are 
some  which,  in  opposition  to  the  Mlmansakas,  assert,  1st,  that  the  Vedas 
are  the  product  of  an  intelligent  mind  ;  and  2nd  (if  the  interpretation 
of  the  commentator  is  to  be  received)  that  they  have  been  uttered  by 
God.111 

The  second  aphorism  of  the  first  section  of  the  first  book  is  as  follows  : 

Yato  'Ihyudaya-nissreyasa-siddhih  sa  dharmah  \ 

"Righteousness  is  that  through  which  happiness  and  future  per- 
fection 113  are  attained." 

After  explaining  this  the  commentator  proceeds  to  introduce  the  next 
aphorism  by  the  following  remarks : 

Narva,  nivritti-lakshano  dharmas  tattva-jndna-dvdrd  nissreyasa-hetur  ity 

111  Of  the  aphorisms,  •which  I  am  about  to  quote,  the  first  has  heen  translated  by 
Dr.  Ballantyne  (who  published  a  small  portion  of  these  Sutras  with  an  English  version 
in  1851) ;  and  it,  as  well  as  the  others,  is  briefly  commented  upon  by  the  Rev.  Prof. 
Banerjea,  in  his  Dialogues  on  Hindu  Philosophy,  pp.  474  ff.,  and  Pref.  p.  ix.,  note. 
See  my  article  in  the  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society,  No.  xx.  for  18o2,  entitled 
"Does  the  Vais'eshika  philosophy  acknowledge  a  Deity  or  not?"  from  which  the 
translations  now  given  have  been  transferred  with  but  little  alteration  and  a  few  ad- 
ditions.    And  compare  Dr.  Roer's  German  translation  of  the  Vais'eshika  aphorisms  in 
the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society  for  1867,  pp.  309  ff. 

112  The  Commentator  explains  abhyudaya  as  —  tattva-jnanam,  "a  knowledge  of  the 
reality,"  and  nissreyasa  as  atyantikl  duhkha-nivrittih,   "the  complete  cessation  of 
suffering." 


,  OF  THE   VEDAS,   HELD   BY   INDIAN   AUTHORS.  119 

attra  srutih  pramdnam  \  sruter  eva  prdmdnye  vayam  vipratipadydmahe 
"  anrita-vydghdta-punarukta-dosjielhyah"  \  .  .  .  .  na  cha  dmndya-pra- 
tipddakam  kinchid  asti  nityatve  viprattipattau  \  nitya-nirdoshatvam  api 
sandigdhamt  \  paurusheydtve  tu  bhrama-pramdda-vipratipatti-karandpd- 
tavddi-sambhdvanayd  dptoktatvam  api  sandigdham  eva  iti  no,  nissreyasam 
na  vd  tattra  tattva-jndnam  dvdram  na  vd  dharmah  iti  sarvam  etad  dku- 
lam  \  atah  aha  *'  tad-vachyndd  dmndyasya  prdmdnyam "  |  "  tad"  ity 
anupakrantam  ap*i  prasiddhi-siddhatafld  Isvaram  pardmrisati  \  yathd 
" tad-dprdmdnyam  anrita-vydghdta-punarukttf-dqshebhyah"  iti  Gauta-, 
mlya-sutre  tach-chhaldena  anupakrdnto  ''pi  vedah  pardmrisyate  \  tathd 
cha  tad-vachandt  tena  isvarena  pranayandd  dmndydsya  vedasya  prdmdn- 
yam |  yadvd  "tad"  iti*sannihitam  dharmam  eva  pardmrisati  \  tathd  cha 
dJiarmasya  " vachandt  pratipddandd  "dmndyasya"  vedasya  prdmdn- 
yam |  yad  hi  vakyam  prdmdnikam  artham  pratipddayati  tat  pramdnam 
eva  yatah  ity  arthah  \  Isvaras  tad-dptatvam  cha  sddhayishyate  \ 

"But  may  it  not  be  objected  here  that  it  is  the  Veda  which  proves 
that  righteousness,  in  the  form  of  abstinence  from  action,  is,  by  means 
of  the  knowledge  of  absolute  truth,  the  cause  of  future  perfection ;  but 
that  we  dispute  the  authority  of  the  Yeda  because  it  is  chargeable 
with  the  faults  of  falsehood,  contradiction,  and  tautology113  .  .  .  . 
And  further,  there  is  nothing  to  prove  the  authority  of  the  Veda,  for 
its  eternity  is  disputed,  its  eternal  faultlessness  is  doubted,  and  if  it 
have  a  personal  author,  the  fact  of  this  person  being  a  competent  utterer 
is  questioned,  since  there  is  ffti  apprehension  of  error,  inadvertence, 
contradiction,  and  want  of  skill  in  composition  attaching  to  him.  Thus 
there  is  neither  any  such  thing  as  future  perfection,  nor  is  either  a 
knowledge  of  absolute  truth  the  instrument  thereof,  or  righteousness. 
Thus  everything  is  perplexed." 

In  answer  to  all  this  the  author  of  the  aphorism  says : 

"The  authority  of  the  sacred  record  arises  from  its  being  uttered 
by  Him." 

"  Here?"  says  the 'commentator,  "  the  word  tad  {His)  refers  to  Isvara 
(God) ;  as,  though  no'  mention  of  Him  has  yet  been  introduced,  He  is 
proved  by  common  notoriety  to  be  meant;  just  as  in  the  aphorism  of 
Gautama  :  '  Its  want  of  authority  is  shown  by  the  faults  of  falsehood, 

113  Here  the  same  illustrations  are  given  as  in  the  commentary  on  the  Nyaya 
aphorisms,  quoted  above,  pp.  113  ff.  » 


120  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

contradiction,  and  tautology,'  the  Veda,  though  not  previously  intro- 
duced, is  intended  by  the  word  tad.ui  And  so  [the  meaning  of  the 
aphorism  is  that]  the  authority  of  the  sacred  record,  i.e.  the  Veda,  is 
proved  by  its  being  spokfen  by  Him,  composed"by  Him,  by  7svara.  Or, 
tad  (its) 1U  may  denote  dharma  (duty)  which  immediately  precedes ; 
and  then  [the  sense  will  be  that]  the  authority  of  thfe  sacred  record, 
i.e.  the  Veda,  arises  from  its  declaring,  i.e.  establishing,  duty,  for  the 
text  which  establishes  any  authoritative  matter  must  be  itself  an  au- 
rthority.  The  proof  pf"Isvara  and  his  competence  will  be  hereafter 
stated."  The  commentator  then  goes  on  to  answer  the  charges  of  false- 
hood, contradiction,  and  tautology  alleged  against  the  Veda. 

The  next  aphorism  which  I  shall  quote  (vi.  A,  1)  is  thus  introduced 
by  the  commentator : 

Buddhi-purvd  i-dkya-lcritir  vede  \  sainsdra-mula-kdranayor  dharmddhar- 
mayoh  parlkshd  shashthddhydydrthah  \  dharmddharmau  cha  "  svarga- 
Tcdmo  yajeta"  "  na  kalanjam  lhakshayed"  ityddi-vidhi-nishedha-lala- 
kalpamyau  vidhi-nishedha-vdkyayoh  prdmdnye  sati  sydtdm  \  tat-prdmdn- 
yam  cha  vaktur  yathdrtha-vdlcydrtha-jndna-lakshana-guna-purvakatvdd 
upapadyate  \  svatah  prdmdnyasya  nishedhdt  \  atah  prathamam  veda-prd- 
mdnya-prayojalia-guna-sddhanam  upakramate  \  "  vdkya-kritir "  vdkya- 
rachand  \  sd  luddhi-purvd  vaktri-yathdrtha-vdkydrtha-jndna-piirvd  \ 
vdkya-rachandtvdt  \  "  nadl-tlre  pancha  phaldni  santi"  ity  asmad-ddi- 
vdkya-rachand-vat  \  "  vede  "  Hi  vdkya-samuddye  ity  arthah  \  tattra  samu- 
ddyindm  vdkydndm  kritih  pakshah  \  n&  cha  asmad-tidi-luddhi-purvaka- 

114  For  the  sake  of  the  reader  who  does  not  know  Sanskrit,  it  may  be  mentioned 
that  tad  being  in  the  crude,  or  uninflected  form,  may  denote  any  of  the  three  genders, 
and  may  be  rendered  either  '  his,'  \  hers,'  or  '  its.'  I  may  observe  that  the  alternative 
explanation  which  the  commentator  gives  of  the  Aphorism,  i.  1,  3,  vi/.  that  the  au- 
thority of  the  Veda  arises  from  its  being  declarative  of  duty,  is  a  much  less  probable 
one  than  the  other,  that  its  authority  is  derived  from  its  being  the  utterance  of  God ; 
for  it  does  not  clearly  appear  how  the  subject  of  a  book  can  establish  its  authority  ; 
and,  in  fact,  the  commentator,  when  he  states  thir  interpretation,  is  obliged,  in  order 
to  give  it  the  least  appearance  of  plausibility,  to  assume  the  Cuthoritative^cliaracter  of 
the  precepts  in  the  Veda,  and  from  this  assumption  to  infer  the  authority  of  the  book 
which  delivers  them.  I  may  also  observe  that  Jayanarayana  Tarkapanchanana,  the 
author  of  the  Gloss  on  S'ankara  Mis'ra's  Commentary,  takes  no  notice  of  this  alter- 
native interpretation ;  and  that  in  his  comment  on  the  same  aphorism  when  repeated 
at  the  clos/^  of  the  work  (x.  2,  9)  S'ankara  Mis'ra  himself  does  not  put  it  forward  a 
second  time.  Dr.  Eoer  (Journ.  Germ.  Or.  Soc.  for  1867,  p.  310)  argues  in  favour  of 
the  former  of  the  two  interpretations  as  the  true  one. 


»  OF  THE  VEDAS,  HELD   BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  121 

tvena  anyathd-siddhih  \  " svarga-lcdmo  yajeta"  itydddv  ishta-sddhana- 
tdydh  kuryyatdydh  vd  asmad-ddi-luddhy-agocharatvdt  \  tena  svatantra- 
purusha-purvalfattam  ^ede  si&dhyati  \  vedatvarh  cha  sabda-tad-upajwi- 
pramdndtiilkta  -pramdna-janya-pramity-avishaydrthalcatve  sati  sabda- 
janya-vd  tydrtha-jnanajanya-p^amana-saldatvam  \ 

"  An  examination  of  righteousness  and  unrighteousness,  which  are 
the  original  causes  of 'the  -world,115  forms  the  subject  of  the  6th  section. 
Now,  righteousness  and!  unrighteousness  are  to  be  constituted  by  virtue 

*  "9 

of  such  injunctions  and  prohibitions  as  these  :  '  The  man  who  desires 
paradise  should  sacrifice/  '  Let  no  one  eat  garlic,'  etc.,  provided  these 
injunctions  and  prohibitions  be  authoritative.  And  this  authoritative- 
ness  depends  upon  the, fact  of  the  utterer  [of  these  injunctions  or  pro- 
hibitions] possessing  the  quality  of  understanding  the  correct  meaning 
of  sentences,  for  the  supposition  of  inherent  authoritativeness  is  un- 
tenable. The  author,  therefore,  first  of  all  enters  upon  the  proof  of 
that  quality  which  gives  rise  to  the  authoritativeness  of  the  Veda. 

"Aphorism  vi.  1.  1. — 'There  is  in  the  Yeda  a  construction  of  sen- 
tences which  is  produced  (lit.  preceded)  by  intelligence.'  " 

"The  'construction  of  sentences,'  the  composition  of  sentences,  'is 
produced  by  intelligence,'  i.e.  by  a  knowledge  of  the  correct  meaning 
of  sentences  on  the  part  of  the  utterer  [of  them]  ;  [and  this  is  proved] 
by  the  fact  of  these  sentences  possessing  an  arrangement  like  the 
arrangement  of  such  sentences  as  '  There  are  five  fruits  on  the  river 
side,'  composed  by  such  persons  as  ourselves.  'In  the  Veda,'  i.e.  in 
the  collection  of  sentences  (so  called).  Here  the  construction  of  the 
sentences  composing  the  collection  is  the  subject  of  the  proposition 
which  is  asserted.  And  this  construction  must  not  be  ascribed  to  a 
wrong  caus«j  by  assuming  that  it  was  the  work  of  a  [limited]  intelli- 
gence such  as  ours.  [Because  it  was  not  a  limited  intelligence  which 
produced  these  sentences].  For  it  is  not  an  object  of  apprehension  to 
the  understandings  of  persons'  like  ourselves  that  such  injunctions  as, 
'He  who*  desires  paradise  should  sacrifice,'  are 'the  instruments  of 
obtaining  what  we  desire,  or  that  t'wJ'y  are  obligatory  in  themselves. 
Hence  in  the  case  of  the  Veda  the  agency  of  a  self-dependent  person  is 

115  This,  I  suppose,  means  that  the  existence  of  the  world  in  its  present  ov*leveloped 
form,  is  necessary  in  order  to  furnish  the  means  of  rewarding  righteousness  and 
punishing  unrighteousness.  • 


122  OPINIONS  REGARDING  THE  ORIGIN,  ETC., 

established  [since  these  matters  could  be  known  by  such  a  person  alone.] 
And  while  the  contents  of  the  Yeda  are  not  the  subjects  of  a  knowledge 
produced  by  any  proof  distinct  from  verbal  proof,  and  the  proofs 
dependent  thereon,  Vedicity,  or  the  characteristic  nature  of>  the  Veda, 
consists  in  its  being  composed  of  (authoritative)  words,  whose  authority 
does  not  spring  from  a  knowledge  of  the  meaning  of  sentences  arising 
from  words  [but  depends  on  the  underived  omniscience  of  its  author]." 
"  Or,  Vedicity  consists  in  being  one  or  other  of  the"  four  collections, 
the  Rich,  Yajush,  San?an',  or  Atharvan." 116 

I  will  introduce  the  next  aphorism  (x.  2,  9)  which  I  propose  to  cite 
(and  which  is  a  repetition  of  aphorism  i.  1,  3),  by  adducing  some 
remarks  of  the  commentator  on  the  one  which  immediately  precedes  it, 
viz.  x.  2,  8  : 

Nanu  sruti-prdmdnye  sati  sydd  evam  \  tad  eva  tu  durlabham  \  na  hi 
mlmdmsakdndm  iva  nitya-nirdoshatvena  £ruti-prdmdnyam  tvayd  isliyate 
paurusJwyatvendlhyv/pagamdt  purushasya  cha  hhrama-pramdda-vipfalip- 
sddi-sambhavdt  \  atah  aha  "  dnshtdbhdve  "  iti  \  drishtam  purushdntare 
'smad-adau  Ihrama-pramdda-  [viprati^~\  lipsddikam  purmha-dushanaih 
tad-abhdve  sati  ity  arthah  \  kshiti-karttritvena  veda-vaktritvena  vd  'numi- 
tasya  purmha-dhaureyasya  nirdoshatvena  eva  upasthiteh  \  tatlid  cha  tad- 
vachasdm  na  nirabhidheyatd  na  viparltdWiidheyatd  na  nishprayojandbhi- 
dheyatd  \  bhutendriya-manasdm  dosJidd  hhrama-pramdda-lctirandpdtavddi- 
prayuldal}  eva  vachasdm  avisuddhayah  sambliuvyante  \  na  cha  Isvara-va- 
cTiasi  tdsdm  sambhavah  \  tad  uktam  "  rdgdjndnddilhir  vaktd  grastatvdd 
anritam  vadet  \  te  chesvare  na  vidyante  sa  bruydt  katham  anyathd  "  |  ' 
nanu  tena  Isvarena  vedah  pramtah  ity  atra  eva  viprapattir  atah  aha  \ 
"tad-vachandt  dmndyasya  prdmdnyam"  \  iti  sdstra-parisamtiptau  "tad- 
vachandt"  tena  Isvarena  vachandt  pranayandd  "  dmndyasya"  vedasya 
prdmdnyam  \  tathd  hi  \  vedds  tdvat  paurusheydh  vdkyatvdd  iti  sddhitam  \ 
na  cha  asmad-ddayas  teshdm  sahasra  -  sdkhdvachchhinndndm  vaktdrah 
samlhdvyante  atindriydrthatvdt  \  na  cha  atlndriydrtha-darsino  'smad- 
ddayah  \  kincha  dptoktdh  veddh  mahdjana-parigrihtlatvdt  \  yad-  na  tiptok- 
taih  na  tad  mahdjana-parigrihltam  \  mahdjana-parigrihitam  cha  idam  \ 
tasmdd  dptoktam  \  sva-tantra-purmha-pranitatvam  cha  dptoktatvam  \ 
mahdjana-parigrihltat'cam  cha  sarva-darsandntahpdti-purushdnushthlya- 
mdndrthatvam  \  kvachit  phaldbhdvah,  karma-karttri-sddhana-vaigunydd 

116  The  last  'Words  are  a  translation  of  the  conclusion  of  Jayanarayana's  gloss. 


OF    THE    VEDAS,    HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  123 

ity  uJctam  \  karttri-smarandlltavdd  na  evam  iti  chef  \  na  \  Jearttri-smara- 
nasya  purvam  eva  sddhitatvdt  \  tat-pranltatvaih  cha  sva-tantra-purusha- 
pranltatvdd  eva  sid^han^  \  na  tv  asmad-ddindm  sahasra-sdkha-veda-pra- 
nayane  svdta^tryam  sambJtavati  ity  uktatvdt  \  Jcincha  pramdydh  guna- 
janyatvena  vaidika-pramdydh  api  guna-janyatvani  dvasyakam  \  tattra  cha 
guno  valctri-yath&rtha-vdkydrtKa-jndnam  eva  vtichyah  \  tathd  cha  tdd- 
risah  'eva  vede  vakta  yvh  svargdpurvddi-  vishayaka  -  sdkshdtkdravdn  \ 
tddrisas  cha  na  lsv<frdd  apyah  iti  sushthvt  \ 

"Now* all  this  will  be  so,  provided  the  Veda  is  authoritative  :  but 
this  condition  is  the  very  one  which  is  difficult  to  attain ;  for  you  do 
not  hold,  like  the  Mlmansakas,  that  the  authority  of  the  Veda  arises 
from  its  eternal  faultlessness ;  since  you  admit  that  it  has  a  personal 
author,  and  error,  inadvertence,  and  a  desire  to  deceive  are  incident  to 
such  a  person.  It  is  with  a  view  to  this  objection  that  the  writer  says 
in  his  aphorism,  '  In  the  absence  of  what  is  seen,'  i.e.  in  the  absence  of 
those  personal  faults  which  are  seen  in  other  persons  like  ourselves,117 
such  as  error,  inadvertence,  and  a  desire  to  deceive :  for  the  Supreme 
Person  who  is  inferred  from  the  creation  of  the  world,  or  the  author- 
ship of  the  Veda,  can  only  exist  in  a  state  of  freedom  from  fault ;  and, 
consequently,  neither  want  of  meaning,  nor  contradiction  of  meaning, 
nor  uselessness  of  meaning,  can  be  predicated  of  his  words.  Incorrect- 
nesses in  words  are  to  be  apprehended  as  the  results  of  error,  inad- 
vertence, or  unskilfulness  in  composition,  arising  from  some  defect  in 
the  elements,  the  senses,  or  the  mind.  But  none  of  these  things  is  to 
be  imagined  in  the  word  of  Isvara  (the  Lord).  And  this  has  been 
expressed  in  the  following  verse :  '  A  speaker  may  utter  falsehood, 
from  being  possessed  by  affection,  ignorance,  and  the  like ;  but  these 
[defects]  do  not  exist  in  God ;  how  then  can  he  speak  what  is  other- 
wise [than  true]  ? ' 

"  But  may  not  the  fact  that  the  Veda  is  composed  by  God  be  dis- 
puted ?  In  consequence  of  this,  jthe  author  says  (in  the  next  aphorism) : 

x.  2,  9.  'J'he  authority  of  the  Vedic  record  arises  •from  its  being  ut- 
tered by  Him.' 

117  A  different  interpretation  is  givep  by  the  commentator  to  this  phrase  drishta- 
bhave,  in  an  earlier  aphorism  in  which  it  occurs,  viz.  vi.  2,  1.  He  there  understands 
it  to  mean  that  where  there  is  no  visible  motive  for  a  prescribed  action,  an  Jnvisible 
one  must  be  presumed  (yattra  drishtam  prayojanam  nopalabhyate  tattra  adrishtam 
prayojanam  kalpariiyam).  ,  * 


124  OPINIONS  REGARDING  THE   ORIGIN,  ETC., 

"  Thus  at  the  end  of  his  treatise  [the  writer  lays  it  down,  that]  the 
authority  of  the  Veda  is  derived  from,,  its  being  His  word,  viz.  from  its 
being  spoken,  i.e.  composed  by  Him,  i.e.  by  Isvari.  As  thus  :  The 
Vedas  are  derived  from  'a  person,  because  they  are  formed  of  sentences. 
This  has  been  proved.  And  persons  like  ourselves  cannot  be  conceived 
as  the  uttorers  of  these  Vedas,  which  are  distinguished  by  having 
thousands  of  S'akhas  (recensions),  because..  their<  objects  are  such  as  lie 
beyond  the  reach  of  the  senses';  and  pers.ons  like  US'  have  nq  intuition 
,  into  anything  beyond,  tlie  reach  of  the  senses.  Further,  the  Vedas  [are 
not  only  derived  from  a  personal  author,  but  they]  have  been  uttered 
by  a  competent  author  (dpta),  because  they  have  been  embraced  by 
great  men.  Whatever  has  not  been  uttered  by  a  competent  person  is 
not  embraced  by  great  men  :  but  this  (book)  is  embraced  by  great  men  : 
therefore  it  has  been  uttered  by  a  competent  person.  Now,  composition 
by  a  self-dependent  person  is  utterance  by  a  competent  person ;  and  the 
reception  (of  the  Veda)  by  great  men  is  the  observance  of  its  contents 
by  persons  who  are  adherents  of  all  the  different  philosophical  schools  : 
and  (the  infallibility  of  the  Veda  is  defended  by  that  which)  has  been 
already  said,  viz.  that  any  occasional  failure  in  the  results  (of  cere- 
monies prescribed  in  the  Veda)  is  owing  to  some  defect  in  the  rite,  or 
in  the  performer,  or  in  the  instruments  employed  [and  not  to  any  falli- 
bility in  the  Veda]. 

"If  it  be  objected  to  this  reasoning,  that  no  author  (of  the  Veda)  is 
recollected,  we  rejoin,  that  this  is  not  -irue,  because  it  has  been  formerly 
proved  that  the  author  is  remembered.  And  that  it  was  composed  by 
Him  is  proved  by  the  simple  fact  of  its  being  composed  by  a  self- 
dependent  person ;  and  because  it  has  been  said  that  the  self-depend- 
ence [or  unassisted  ability]  of  people  like  us  in  the  composition  of  the 
Veda,  consisting,  as  it  does,  of  a  thousand  S'akhas,  is  inconceivable. 
And  since  authority  (in  a  writing  in  general)  springs  from  a  quality  [in 
its  author],  it  necessarily  follows  that  the  authority  of  the  Veda  also 
springs  from  a  quality.  And  there  the  quality-  in  question  must  be 
declared  to  be  the  speaker's  knowledge  of  the  correct  meaning  of  sen- 
tences. And  thus  (we  have  shewn  that)  there  is  such  an  utterer  of 
the  Veda,  who  possesses  an  intuitive  knowledge  of  paradise,  and  of 
the  yet  unseen  consequences  of  actions,  etc.,  and  such  an  utterer  is  no 
other  than  Isvara.  Thus  all  is  satisfactory." 


,        OF    TEE    VEDAS,   HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  125 

The  ultimate  proofs,  then,  of  the  binding  authority  of  the  Veda  are, 
according  to  the  commentator,  1st,  its  extent  and  subject-matter,  and 
2ndly,  its  unanimpus  Deception  by  great  men,  adherents  of  all  the 
different  orthodox  systems.  Of  course  these  arguments  have  no  vali- 
dity except  for  those  who  see  something  supernatural  in  the  Veda,  and 
on  the  assumption  that  the  great  men  who  embraced  it  wer^  infallible ; 
and  therefore  as  agaimst  the  Bauddhas  and  other  heretics  who  saw 
nothing  miraculous  in  tjie  Vedas,  and  consequently  regarded  all  their 
adherents  as  in  error,  they  were  utterly  worthless.  But  possibly  it. 
was  not  the  object  of  the  commentator  (for  the  greater  part  of  the  argu- 
mentation is  his,  not  that  of  the  author  of  the  Aphorisms)  to  state  the 
ultimate  reasons  on  whioh  the  authority  of  the  Vedas  would  have  to  be 
vindicated  against  heretics,  but  merely  to  explain  the  proper  grounds 
on  which  the  orthodox  schools  who  already  acknowledged  that  au- 
thority ought  to  regard  it  as  resting;  i.e.  not,  as  the  Himansakas  held 
their  eternal  faultlessness,  but  the  fact  of  their  being  uttered  by  an  intel- 
ligent and  omniscient  author ;  whose  authorship,  again,  was  proved  by 
the  contents  of  the  Vedas  having  reference  to  unseen  and  future  matters 
of  which  only  an  omniscient  Being  could  have  any  knowledge ;  while 
the  fact  of  these  revelations  in  regard  to  unseen  things  having  actually 
proceeded  from  such  a  Being,  and  being  therefore  true,  was  guaranteed 
by  the  unanimous  authority  of  the  wisest  men  among  the  faithful. 

As  it  is  a  matter  of  some  interest  to  know  what  is  the  nature  of 
inspiration,  or  supernatural  knowledge,  as  conceived  by  the  Vaiseshikas, 
I  shall  quote  some  passages  bearing  on  this  subject  from  the  aphorisms, 
or  from  their  expounder,  S'ankara  Misra.  In  his  remarks  on  Aphorism 
viii.  1,  2  (p.  357),  the  commentator  states  that  opinion  (jndna)  is  of 
two  kinds,  true  (vidya)  and  false  (avidya)  *  and  that  the  former  (vidya] 
is  of  two  descriptions,  arising  from  perception,  inference,  re'collection, 
and  the  infallible  intuition  "peculiar  to  rishis "  (Tack  cha  jndnam 
dvividham  vidya  cha  avidyd  ch<\  \  vidya  chaturvidhd  pratyaksha-laingilca- 
smrity-drska-lakshanti}.  Perception  or  intuition,  again,  is  of  different 
kinds  or  degrees  (Aphorism  ix.  1,  11-15,  pp.  385  ff.).  Aphorism  ix. 
1,  11  (p.  386),  is  as  follows: 

Tad  evam  bhtivtilhdva-vishayaJcam  laukiJca-pratyaksham  nirupya  yogi- 
pratyaksham  nirupayitum  prakarandntaram  drabhate  \  ix.  1,  M.  "  At- 
many  dtma-manasoh  samyoga-viseshdd  dtma-pratyaksham  "  »|  jndnam  ut- 


126  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,  ETC., 

padyate  iti  seshah  \  dvividhds  tdvad  yoginah  samdhitdntahkarandh  ye 
"  yuktuh"  ity  abhidhlyante  asamdhitdntahkarands  cha  ye  "  viyuktdh" 
ity  abhidhlyante  \  tattra  yuktdh  sdkshdtkartavy*,  vaituny  ddarena  memo 
nidhdya  nididhydsanavantah  \  teshdm  dtmani  svdtmani  pardtmani  cha 
jndnam  utpadyate  \  "  dtma-pratyaksham  "  iti  \  dtmd  sukshdtkflra-vishayo 
yattra  jndne  tat  tathd  \  yadyapy  asmad-ddlndm  afii  kaddchid  dtma- 
jndnam  asti  tathdpy  avidyd-tiraskritatvdt  tad  (tsat-Kalpam  ity  uktam  \ 
" dtma-manasos  sannikarsha-vtieshdd"  iti  ifoga-ja-dharmdnugrohah  dtma- 
manasoh  sannikarsha-viieshas  tasmdd  ity  arthah  \ 

"  Having  thus  defined  ordinary  perception  which  has  for  its  objects 
existence  and  non-existence,  the  author,  with  the  view  of  determining 
the  character  of  the  intuition  of  yogins,  says  :•  '  From  a  particular  con- 
centration of  both  the  soul  and  the  mind 118  on  the  soul,  arises  the  per- 
ception (or  intuition)  of  soul.'  On  this  the  commentator  remarks  : 
'  There  are  two  kinds  of  yogins  (intent,  or  contemplative,  persons),  (1) 
those  whose  inner  sense  is  fixed  samdhitdntahkarandh},  who  are  called 
(yuktdh}  united  (i.e.  with  the  object  of  contemplation),  and  (2)  those 
whose  inner  sense  is  no  longer  fixed,  and  who  are  called  disunited  (viyuk- 
tdh).119 Of  these  the  first  class,  who  are  called  '  united,'  fix  their  minds 
with  reverence  on  the  thing  which  is  to  be  the  object  of  intuition,  and 
contemplate  it  intently.  In  this  way  knowledge  arises  in  their  souls 
regarding  their  own  souls,  and  the  souls  of  others.  '  Intuition  of  soul/ 
that  is,  a  knowledge  in  which  soul  is  the  perceptible  object  of  intuition. 
Now,  although  persons  like  ourselves  have  sometimes  a  knowledge  of 
soul,  yet  from  this  knowledge  being  affected  by  ignorance,  it  has  been 
said  to  be  like  what  is  unreal.  '  From  a  particular  concentration  of  the 
soul  and  the  mind;'  that  is,  from  a  particular  conjunction  of  the  soul 
and  the  mind  which  is  effected  by  means  of  the  virtue  derived  from 
yoga."  See  also  Aphorism  xv.  p.  390. 

At  the  conclusion  of  his  remarks  (Bibl.  Ind.  p.  408)  on  the  third  sort 
of  true  knowledge  (referred  to  in  p.  357,  Bibl.  Ind.),  viz.  recollection, 
the  commentator  remarks  that  the  author  of  tile  aphorisms  does  not 
make  any  separate  mention  of  the  fourth  kind  of  knowlege,  viz.  in- 
fallible intuition  : 

118  The  "  mind  "  (manas)  is  regarded  by  the  Indian  philosophers  as  distinct  from 
the  souV,-and  as  being  merely  an  internal  organ. 

119  This  cla|s  is  the  more  perfect  of  the  two,  as  appears  from  the  gloss  of  Jayana- 
rayana :  ayam  api  msishta'-yogavativad  viyuktah  ity  uchyate. 


OF    THE    VEDAS,    HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  127 

t 

t 
ix.  2,  6 Arshafh  j'ndnam  sutra-kritd  prithan  na  lalcshitam  \ 

yogi-pratyakshdntarbhdvitam  \  paddrtha-pradesdkhye  tu  prakarane  tad 
uktam  |  tad  yathd  I  "  dmndya-vidhutrlndm  rishlndm  atltdndgata-vartta- 
mdneshv  atlnflnydrtheshv  artheshu  dharmddishuigranthopaniladdheshu  vd 
Ungddy-anapekshdd  dtma-manasoh  samyogdd  dharma-viseshach  cha  prd- 
tibhaih  jndnam  i/ad  utpadyate  fad,  drsham  iti  \  tach  cha  kaddchil  lauki~ 
kdndm  'api  bhavati,  yatjid  kanyakd  vadati  "  svo  me  bhrdtd  gantd  iti  hri- 
dayam  me  kathayati  "  itit  \  • 

"Rishis'  (arsha)  knowledge,"  he  says,  "  is»  not  separately  defined  t 
by  the  author  of  the  aphorisms,  bu£  is  included  in  the  intuition  of 
yogins.™  But  the  following  statement  has  been  made  (in  reference  to 
it)  in  the  section  on  the  categories:  'Rishis'  (drsha]  knowledge  is 
that  which,  owing  to  &  conjunction  of  the  soul  and  the  mind,  inde- 
pendent of  inference,  etc.,  and  owing  to  a  particular  species  of  virtue, 
illuminates  those  rishis  who  have  composed  the  record  of  the  Yedas 
(dmndya-vidhdtrlntim),  in  reference  to  such  matters,  whether  past, 
future,  or  present,  as  are  beyond  the  reach  of  the  senses,  or  in  refer- 
ence to  matters  of  duty,  etc.,  recoi'ded  in  books,'  etc.  And  this  sort  of 
knowledge  is  also  sometimes  manifested  by  ordinary  persons,  as  when  a 
girl  says,  '  my  heart  tells  me  that  my  brother  will  go  to-morrow.' " 
See  also  Aphorism  ix.  2,  13  (Bibl.  Ind.  pp.  414,  415). 

The  Tarka-sangraha,  another  Vaiseshika  work,  also  affirms  the  divine 
authorship  of  the  Veda  in  these  words  :  m  Vdkyam  dvividham  laukikam 
vaidikam  cha  \  vaidikam  Isvaroktaivdt  sarvam  eva  pramdnam  laukikam  tu 
dptoktatn  pramdnam  any  ad  apramdnam  \  "Sentences  are  of  two  kinds, 
Vedic  and  secular.  Vedic  sentences,  from  being  uttered  by  Isvara,  are 
all  proof  [or  authoritative].  Of  secular  sentences,  those  only  which 
are  uttered  by  competent  persons  (dpta)  are  proof;  the  rest  are  not 
proof." 

In  this  text,  the  authority  of  the  Veda  is  founded  on  its  being  uttered 
by  Isvara ;  and  this  characteristic  is  regarded  as  limited  to  the  Veda. 

.  * 

120  It  had  been  already  noticed  by  Professor  Max  Miiller  in  the  Journal  of  the 

German  ()rient;il  Society,  vii.  p.  311,  that  "  the  Vais'eshikas,  like  Kapila,  include  the 
intuition  of  enlightened  rishis  under  the  head  of  pratyaksha  (intuition),  and  thus  sepa- 
rate it  decidedly  from  aitihya,  '  tradition.'  "  He  also  quotes  the  commentator's 
remark  about  a  similar  intuition  being  discoverable  amosg  ordinary  persons^which  he 
thinks  is  not  "  without  a  certain  irony." 

121  See  Dr.  Ballantyne's  ed.  with  Hindi  and  English  Versions,  p.  40  5f  the  Sanskrit. 


128  OPINIONS  REGARDING  THE  ORIGIN,  ETC., 

On  the  other  hand,  such  secular  works  as  proceed  from  competent 
persons  (upta)  are  also  declared  to  possess  authority.  Here,  therefore, 
a  distinction  is  drawn  between  the  authority  of  the  Veda  and  that  of 
all  other  writings,  however  authoritative,  inasmuch  as  the  former  was 
uttered  by  Isvara,  while  the  latter  have  only  been  uttered  by  some 
competent  person  (upta).  But  in  the  liTyaya  aphorism,  ii.  68.  quoted 
and  commented  upon  above  (p.  114),  the  authority  of  the  Yeda  itself  is 
made  to  rest  on  the  authority  o.f  the  wise,  or  competent  persons  (dpta\ 
from  whom  it  proceeded.122  In  this  aphorism,  therefore,  either  +he  word 
"apta"  must  mean  "Isvara,"  or  we  must  suppose  a  difference  of  view 
between  the  author  of  the  aphorism  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  writers 
of  the  Vaiseshika  aphorisms  and  the  Tarka-sangraha  on  the  other. 
"We  shall  see  from  the  next  extract  that  the-Kusumanjali  coincides 
with  the  latter. 

I  quote  from  the  work  just  named  (of  which  TJdayana  Acharya  is  the 
author),  and  its  commentary,123  some  statements  of  the  doctrine  main- 
tained by  the  author  regarding  the  origin  and  authority  of  the  Veda. 
Mr.  Colebrooke  (Misc.  Ess.  i.  263,  or  p.  166  of  Williams  andNorgate's  ed.) 
speaks  of  this  treatise  as  being  accompanied  by  a  commentary  of  Nara- 
yana  Tirtha ;  but  the  one  which  is  printed  in  the  Calcutta  edition,  as 
well  as  in  Professor  Cowell's,  is  by  Haridasa  Bhattacharya.  The  object 
of  the  work  is  to  prove  the  existence  of  a  personal  god  (Isvara),  in 
opposition  to  various  other  antagonistic  theories. 

I.  Kusumanjali,  2nd  Stavaka,  at  the  commencement :  Anyatlid  'pi 
paralolia-sddhandnushthdna-samlhavtid  iti  dvitiya-vipratipattih  \  Anyatlid 
Isvaram  vino,  'pi  paraloka-sudhana-ydgddy-anushtJiunam  samlhavati  ydgd- 
deh  svarga-sddhanatvasya  veda-gamyatvdt  \  nitya-nirdoshatayd  cha  veda- 
sya  pramdnyam  \  mahdjanc-parigrahdch  cha  prdmdnyasya  grahah  iti 
veda-kdranatayd  na  Isvara-siddhih  \  yogardhi-sampddita-sd.-vajnya-Kapi- 

122  The  following  words  are  put  by  the  author  of  the  Vishnu  Parana  (iii.  ch.  18  ; 
"Wilson,  vol.  iii.  p.  212)  into  the  mouth  of  the  deluder  who  promulgated  the  Bauddha 
and  other  heresies :    Na  hy  apta-vadcih  nabliaso  nipatanti  mahasurah  \  yuktimad 
vachanam  grahyam  inaya  'nyais  cha  bhavad-vidhaih  \  "Words  of  the1' competent  do 
not,  great  Asuras,  fall  from  the  sky.     It  is  only  words  supported  by  reasons  that 
should  be  admitted  by  me  and  others  like  yourselves." 

123  This  book  was  published  at  the  Sanskrit  Press,  Calcutta,  in  the  S'aka  year,  1769. 
A  new  edition  was  published  by  Professor  Cowell  in  1864,  accompanied  by  an  English 
translation.     I  have  availed  myself  of  this  excellent  version  to  correct  a  good  many 
mistakes  in  my  own. 


OF    THE   VEDAS,   HELD   BY  INDIAN   AUTHORS.  129 

i 
Iddi-purvakah  eva  vd  vedo  'stv  ity  atra  aha  \  " pramdydh  paratantratvdt 

sarga-pralaya-samlhavdt  \  tad-anyasminn  avisvdsdd  na  vidhdnta/ra-sam- 
bhavah"  \  S'ubdl p^amd^vaktri-yathdrtha-vakydrtha-dhl-lupa-guna-janya 
iti  gunddhdr^atdyd  Isvara-tsiddhih  \  nanu  sakartrike  'stu  yathdrtha-vdk- 
ydrtha-dhlr  gunah  \  akartrike  cha  vede  nirdoshatvam  eva  prdmdnya-pra- 
yojalihm  astu  mcJidjana-parigrahena  cha  prdmdnya-graliah  ity  ata  aha  \ 
"sarga-pmlaya-sambhcwdd"  iti  \  pralayottaram purva-veda-ndsdd  uttara- 
vedasya  katham  pmmdnyam  mahdjana-parigrahasydpi  tadd  abhdvdt  \ 
Sabdasya  anityatvam  utpanno  ga-kdrah  iti  pratlti-siddJiam  \  pravdhdvich- 
chheda-rupa-nityatvam  api  pralaya-samlhavdd  ndsti  iti  bhdvah  \  Kapild- 
dayah  eva  sargddau  purva-sargdbhyasta-yoga-janya- dharmdnulhavdt 
sdkshdt-krita-sakaldrthdfy  karttdrah  santu  \  ity  ata  alia  \  "  tad-anyas- 
minn"  iti  \  visva-nirtiidna-samarthdh  animddi-sakti-sampanndh  yadi 
sarvajnds  tadd  Idghavdd  eka  eva  tddrisah  svlkriyatdm  \  sa  eva  lhagavdn 
Isvarah  \  anitydsarva-vuhayaka-jnanavati  cha  visvdsah  eva  ndsti  \  iti 
vaidika-vyavahdra-vilopah  \  iti  na  vidhdntara-samlhavah  Isvardnangi- 
kartri-naye  iti  sesliah  \ 

"  The  second  objection  is  that  [there  is  no  proof  of  an  Isvara],  since 
the  means  of  attaining  paradise  can  be  practised  independently  of  any 
such  Being.  That  is  to  say,  the  celebration  of  sacrifices,  etc.,  which 
are  the  instruments  of  obtaining  paradise,  can  take  place  otherwise,  i.e. 
even  without  an  Isvara  (God).  For  the  fact  that  sacrifices,  etc.,  are  the 
instruments  of  obtaining  paradise  is  to  be  learned  from  the  Veda,  while 
the  authority  of  the  Veda  rests  upon  its  eternal  faultlessness ;  and  the 
[immemorial]  admission  of  that  authority  results  from  its  Deception  by 
illustrious  men.  No'v  in  this  way  there  is  no  proof  of  the  existence  of 
a  God  to  be  derived  from  the  idea  that  he  is  the  cause  of  the  Veda.  Or 
let  it  be  supposed  that  the  Veda  was  preceded  [composed]  by  Kapila 
and  other  sages,  who  by  their  wealth  in  devotion  had  acquired  omni- 
science. 

"  In  answer  to  all  this  the  author  says :  [verse]  'Since  truth  depends 
on  an  external  source)  since  creation  and  dissolution  occur,  and  since 
there  is  no  confidence  in  any  other  than  God,  therefore  no  other  manner 
can  be  conceived  [in  which  the  Veda  originated,  except  from  God].' 
[Comment]  Verbal  truth  [or  authoritativeness]  is  derived  from  the 
attribute,  possessed  by  its  promulgator,  of  comprehending  tie  true 
sense  of  words  [i.e.  in  order  to  constitute  the  Veda  an  authoritative 


130  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

rule  of  duty,  it  must  have  proceeded  from  an  intelligent  being  who 
understood  the  sense  of  what  he  tittered] ;  and  since  God  is  the  sub- 
stratum of  this  attribute  [of  intelligence],  there  is  proof  of  his  existence. 

"  But  it  may  be  said-  that  if  the  Veda  h&d  a  maker,  then,  indeed, 
such  comprehension  of  the  true  sense  of  words  as  you  insist  upon  may 
be  a  quality  belonging  to  him  ;  but  if  the  Yeda  had  nc^maker,  let' it  be 
its  faultlessness  which  imparts  to  it  its  authority,  Awhile  the  '[imme- 
morial] admission  of  that  authority  results  from  its  Deception  by  illus- 
t  trious  men.  l 

"  In  answer  to  this  the  author  says:  'Since  creation  and  dissolu- 
tion occur.'  Since  the  previous  Veda  [the  one  which  existed  during 
the  former  mundane  period]  perished  after  thp  dissolution  of  the  uni- 
verse, how  can  the  subsequent  Veda  [i.e.  the'  one  supposed  by  our 
opponents  to  have  existed  during  the  dissolution]  be  authoritative,  since 
there  was  not  then  even  any  reception  of  it  by  illustrious  men  [who 
also  had  all  become  extinct  at  the  dissolution].  And  further,  the  non- 
eternity  of  sound  is  proved  by  the  conviction  we  have  that  letters  such 
as  G  are  produced,  [and  not  eternal]  :  and  even  that  eternity  (or  per- 
petuity) of  the  Veda  which  consists  in  unbroken  continuity  of  tradition, 
does  not  exist,  as  there  is  probable  proof  of  a  dissolution.121  But,  again, 
it  is  urged  that  Tvapila  and  other  saints — who,  from  their  perception  of 
duty,  springing  from  the  practice  of  devotion  during  the  former  mun- 
dane period,  had  acquired  an  intuitive  knowledge  of  every  subject — 
may  at  the  creation  have  been  the  cuthors  of  the  Veda.  This  is  an- 
swered in  the  words,  '  since  there  is  no  confidence  in  any  other  but 
God.'  If  persons  capable  of  creating  the  universe  and  possessing  the 
faculty  of  minuteness  be  omniscient,  then,  for  the  sake  of  simplicity, 
let  one  such  person  only  be  admitted,  namely,  the  divine  Isvara.123 
And  no  confidence  can  be  reposed  in  any  person  who  is  not  eternal,  and 
who  is  not  possessed  of  a  knowledge  which  extends  to  all  objects. 
Thus  the  Vedic  tradition  disappears.  And  so  he  concludes  that  no 
other  manner  [of  the  origination  of  the  Veda]  cau  be  conceived  [except 

124  The  writers  on  the  other  side  seem  to  reply  to  this  Naiyayika  objection  about 
the  interruption  of  Ihe  tradition  of  the  Veda  through  the  dissolution  of  the  universe, 
by  saying  that  the  Veda  was  retained  in  the  memory  of  Brahma  or  the  Rishis  during 
the  interval  while  the  dissolution  lasted.    See  Kulluka  on  Manu,  i.  23,  above,  p.  6 ; 
and  the7>;issage  of  Kaiyyata  on  the  Mahabhashya,  above,  p.  96. 

125  "  The  l?w  of  parsimony  bids  us  assume  only  one  such,"  etc. — Cowell. 


OF   THE   VEDAS,   HELD   BY  INDIAN   AUTHORS.  131 

• 

from  Isvara]  ;  that  is,  in  the  system  of  those  who  deny  an  Isvara  [no 
way  is  pointed  out]."  , 

II.  Kusumanjali,»iii.  J/>. — "Napramdnam  andptoktir  nddrishte  hvachid 
dptatd  |  adrif-ya-drishtati  sitrvajno  na  cha  nitydgafaah  kshamah  "  |  ay  am  hi 
sarva-JcartritvdbhdvdvedaJcah  sabdah  andptoldas  ched  na  pramdnam  \  dp- 
toktas 'died  etad-dfrtha-gochara-jndnavato  nitya-sarva-vishayalca-jndnavat- 
tvam  indriyddy-abhuvdb  \  dgamasya  cha  nityatvam  dushitam  eva  prdg  iti 
veda-Mro  nityah  satvajnafi  siddhyati  \  • 

[Versd]  "  The  word  of  an  incompetent  person  js  not  authoritative  ;  , 
nor  can  there  be  any  competency  in  regard  to  a  thing  unseen  [by  the 
speaker].  To  perceive  invisible  things,  a  person  must  be  omniscient; 
and  an  eternal  scripture  is  impossible.  [Comment]  This  [supposed] 
scriptural  testimony,  denying  the  fact  of  there  being  a  creator  of  all 
things,  if  uttered  by  an  incompetent  person,  would  be  no  proof.  If  it 
was  uttered  by  a  competent  person,  then  the  person  who  possessed  an 
acquaintance  with  this  circumstance  [that  there  was  no  creator]  would 
be  master  of  a  knowledge  which  was  eternal,  and  universal  in  its  range, 
since  he  Would  not  be  limited  by  any  bodily  organs.  And  we  have 
previously  disproved  the  eternity  of  any  scripture  (see  the  first  extract 
from  the  Kusumanjali,  above).  Consequently  an  omniscient  and  eternal 
author  of  the  Yeda  is  established." 

III.  Kaisumanjali,  v.  1. — "Kdryydyojana-dhrityddehpaddt  pratyaya- 
tahsruteh  \  vdlcyat  sanlcliyd-viseshdch  cha  sddhyo  visvavid  avyayah  "  \  ... 
Pratyayatah  prdmdnydt  \  veda-jcfni/a-jnunam  kdrana-guna-janyam  pra- 
mdtvdt  \  pratyaltshddi-pramti-vat  \  sniter  veddt  \  vedah  paurusheyo  veda- 
tvad  dyurveda-vat  \  kincha  vedah  paurusheyo  udkyatvdd  Ihdratddi-vat  \ 
veda-vdkydni paurusheydni  vakyatvdd  asmad-ddi-vdkya-vat  \ 

[Verse]  "  An  omniscient  and  indestructible  Being  is  to  be  proved 
from  [the  existence  of]  eifects,  from  the  conjunction  of  [atoms],  from 
the  support  [of  the  earth  in  the  sky],  etc.,  from  ordinary  usages,  from 
belief  [in  revelation],  from  the,  Veda,  from  sentences,  and  from  parti- 
cular numbers."  *  » 

The  following  is  so  much  of  the  comment  as  refers  to  the  words 
pratyaya,  sruti,  and  vdkya :  "From  belief,  i.e.  from  authoritativeness. 
The  knowledge  derived  from  the  Veda  is  derived  from  the  attributes  of 
its  Cause;  since  it  is  true  knowledge,  like  the  true  knowledge  Derived 
from  perception.  From  the  sruti,  -i.e.  the  Yedav  The  Veda  is  [shewn 


132  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC. 

to  be]  derived  from  a  person,  by  its  having  the  characters  of  a  Veda, 
like  the  Ayur-veda.  It  is  also  [shewn  to  be]  derived  from  a  person, 
by  having  the  character  of  sentences,  like  the  H.ahabharata.  The 
words  of  the  Veda  are  [shewn  to  be]  derived  from  a  person,  by  their 
having  the  character  of  sentences,  like  the  sentences  of  persons  such  as 
ourselves."  ••> 

IV.  Kusumanjali,  v.  16. — "Sydtn."  "abhuvam"i"bhavishydmi"''tyad'att 
sankhya  pravaklri-gd  \  samdkhyd  ''pi  cJia  sdkliandm*>,nddya-pravachandd 
rite  |  Vaidikottama-pwushena  svatantrochchdrayituh  sankhya  vdchya  \  • 
"tad  aikshata  eko  'ham  bahu  sydm"  ityddi-lahushu  uttama-purusha-sru- 
teh  |  sankhyd-paddrtham  any  am  alia  "samdkhyd"  ityddi  \  sarvdsdfit, 
sdkhdnam  hi  Kdthaka-Kdldpakddydh  samdkhudh  sanjnd-viseshah  sru- 
yante  \  te  cha  na  adhyayana-mdtra-nilandhandh  \  adhyetrlndm  dnantydt  \ 
dddv  any  air  api  tad-adhyayandt  \  tasmdd  atlndriyartha-darsl  lhagavdn 
eva  Isvarah  kdrunikah  sargdddv  asmad-ady-adrishtdkrishta-kdthakddi- 
sarlra-visesham  adhishthdya  yum  sdkhdm  uktavdms  tasydh  sdkhdyds  tan- 
ndmnd  vyapadesah  iti  siddham  Isvara-mananam  moksha-hetuh  \ 

[Verse]  "In  the  phrases  'let  me  be,'  'I  was,'  *I  shall  be,'  [which 
occur  in  the  Veda],  personal  designations  have  reference  to  a  speaker ; 
and  the  names  of  the  S'akhas  could  only  have  been  derived  from  a 
primeval  utterance.  [Comment]  The  first  person  (I),  when  it  occurs 
in  the  Veda,  must  be  employed  to  denote  a  self-dependent  utterer. 
Now  there  are  many  instances  there  of  such  a  use  of  the  first  person, 
as  in  the  words,  '  It  reflected,  I  am  --one,  let  me  become  many.'  The 
author  then  specifies  another  signification  of  the  term  sankhya  in  the 
clause, '  and  the  designations,'  etc.  For  all  the  S'akhas  of  the  Veda  tradi- 
tionally bear  the  names,  the  special  names,  of  Kathaka,  Kalapaka,  etc. 
And  these  names  cannot  be  connected  with  the  mere  study  [of  these  S'ak- 
has by  Katha,  Kalapa,  etc.]  from  the  infinite  multitude  of  students,  since 
they  must  have  been  studied  before  by  others  besides  the  persons  just 
mentioned.  Wherefore  the  particular  S'akhas  which  Isvara,  the  be- 
holder of  objects  obey ond  the  reach  of  the  senses,  the  C9mpassionate 
Lord,  himself  uttered  at  the  beginning  of  the  creation,  when  he  assumed 
the  bodies  of  Katha,  etc.,  which  were  drawn  on  by  the  destiny  (adrishta) 
of  beings  like  ourselves — these  S'akhds,  I  say,  were  designated  by  the 
names'  of  the  particular  sages  [in  whose  persons  they  were  promul- 
gated]. Aud  so  it  is  proved  that  the  contemplation  of  Isvara  is  the 
cause  of  final  liberation." 


t          OF  THE   VEDAS,  HELD    BY   INDIAN   AUTHORS.  133 

T  am  unable  to  say  if  the  ancient  doctrine  of  the  Nyaya  was  theistic, 
as  that  of  the  Yaiseshika  Sutras  (at  least  as  interpreted  by  S'ankara 
Misra)  appears  to»be,  smd  as  that  of  the  Kusumanjali,  the  Tarka-san- 
graha,126  and.,  the  Siddhanta  Huktavali  undoubtedly  is  (p.  6  of  Dr.  Bal- 
lantyne's  ed.,  or  p.  12  of  his  "  Christianity  contrasted  with  Hindu  Phi- 
losophy," and  p.*  13  of  Dr.  Ko'er's  Bhasha-parichchheda,  in  Bibl.  Ind.). 
The  remarks  of  Du  Rcjer  on^the  subject,  in  pp.  xv.,  xvi.,  of  the  intro- 
duction to  the  last 'named  work,  may  be*  consulted.  The  subject  is  also 
discussed  by  Professor  Banerjea  in  his  work  on*  Hindu  philosophy,  pp.. 
144-153.  The  solution  of  the  question  may  depend  much  on  the  inter- 
pretation to  be  given  to  the  aphorisms  of  Gotama,  19-21  of  the  fourth 
book.  •» 

III.  The  Sdnkhya. — The  opinions  of  the  author  of  the  Sankhya  aphor- 
isms in  regard  to  the  authority  of  the  Veda  and  the  principles  on  which 
that  authority  depends,  are  contained  in  the  45th  to  the  51st  aphorisms 
of  the  Fifth  Book,  which  I  extract  with  the  comments  of  Vijnana 
Bhikshu : 127 

45.  " Na  nityatvam  Veddndm  Jcdryatva-sruteh"  \  "  Sa  tapo'tapyata 
tasmdt  tapas  tepdndt  trayo  vedd  ajdyanta"  ity  ddi-sruter  veddndm  na 
nityatvam  ity  arthah  \  veda-nityatd-vdlcydni  cha  sajatlydnupurvl-pravd- 
hdmtchchheda-pardni  \  Tarhi  kim  paurusheydh  veddh  \  na  ity  aha  \  46. 
"  Na  paurusheyatvam  tat-kartuh  purushasya  abhdvdt  "  \  isvara-pratishe- 
ddd  iti  seshah  \  sugamam  \  aparah  learttd  bhavatv  ity  dkdnJcshdydm  aha  \ 
47.  "  Muktdmuktayor  ayogyatvdt  v  \Jlvan-mukta-dhurmo  VisJinur  visud- 
dha-sattvatayd  niratisaya-sarvajno  ''pi  vlta-rtigatvdt  sahasra-sdkha-veda- 
nirmdndyogyah  \  amuktas  tv  asarvajnatvdd  eva  ayogyah  ity  arthah  j  nanv 
evam  apaurusheyatvdd  nityatvam  eva  dgatam  \  tatrdha  \  48.  "  Na  apau- 
rusheyatvdd  nityatvam  ankurddi-vat "  \  Spashtam  \  nanv  ankurddishv  api 
Icdryatvena  ghatddi-vat  purusheyatvam  anumeyam  \  tatrdha  \  49.  "Teshdm 
api  tad-yoge  drislita-lddhadi-prasaktiji"  \  Yat paurusheyam  tach  chha- 

» 

126  Jnanadhikaranam  a+ma  \  sa  dvividho  jlvatma  paramatta  cha  \  tatra  Isvarah 
sarvajnah  paramatma  eka  eva,  \  jivatma  prati  sarlram  bhinno  vibhur  nityascha  \ 
"  The  substratum  of  knowledge  is  soul.  It  is  of  two  kinds,  the  embodied  soul,  and  the 
supreme  soul.     Of  these  the  supreme  soul  is  the  omniscient  Is'vara,  one  only.     The 
embodied  soul  is  distinct  in  each  body,  all-pervading,  and  eternal." 

127  Compare  Dr.  Ballantyne's  translation  of  the  Sankhya  Aphorisms,  boo^s  v.  and 
vi.,  published  at  Mirzapore  in  1856,  pp.  26  ff.,  as  well  as  that  which  subsequently 
appeared  in  the  Bibliotheca  Indica  (in  1865),  pp.  127  ff.   %  » 


• 
134  OPINIONS   REGARDING    THE  ORIGIN,    ETC., 

rlra-janyam  iti  vydptir  loke  drishtd  tasydh  bddhddir  evam  sati  sydd  Hi 
arthah  \  nanv  Adi-purushochcharitatvdd  Veddh  api,  paurmheydh  eva  ity 
aha  \  50.  "Yasmin  adrishte'pi  krita-luddhir  ^apajuyate  tat  paurmhe- 
yam "  |  Drishte  iva  adrishte  'pi  yasmin  vastuni  krita-luHdhir  buddhi- 
purvakatva  -  buddhir  jdyate  tad  eva  paurusheyam  iti  vyavahriyate  ity 
arthah  \  etad  uktam  lhavati  I  nc,  purushochcharitatd-mdtrena  paurmhe- 
yatvam  svdsa-prasvdsayoh  sushupti-kdlinaroh  paurusheyatva-vyavahdrd- 
bhdvdt  kintu  luddhi-purvakatvena  \  Veddc  tu  'nihsvd'sa-vad  eve.  adrishta- 
vasdd  abuddhi-purvatM'h  eva  Svaypmlhuvah  sakdsdt  svayam  lhavanti  \  ato 
na  te  paurusheydh  \  tathd  cha  srutih  "  tasyaitasya  mahato  Ihutasya  ni- 
svasitam  etad  yad  rigvedo  ity  ddir  "  iti  \  nanv  evam  yathdrtha-vtilcydrtha- 
jndndpurvakatvdt  suka  -  vdkyasyeva  veddndm  'api  prdmdnyam  na  sydt 
tatrdha  \  51.  "Nija-sakty-abhvyakteh  svatah  prdmdnyam"  \  Veddndm 
nijd  svdlhdvikl  yd  yathdrtha-jndna-janana^aktis  tasydh  mantrdyurvedd- 
dav  abhivyakter  wpalamlhdd  akhila-veddndm  eva  svatah  eva  prdmdnyam 
siddhyati  na  vaktri-yathdrtha-jndna-mulakatvddind  ity  arthah  \  tathd 
cha Nydya-sutram  \  "mantrdyurveda-prdmdnya-vach  cha  tat-prdmdnyam" 
iti  | 

"  Sutra  45.  'Eternity  cannot  be  predicated  of  the  Vedas,  since 
various  texts  in  these  hooks  themselves  declare  them  to  have  heen  pro- 
duced.' The  sense  is  this,  that  the  Yedas  are  proved  not  to  be  eternal 
by  such  texts  as  the  following:  'He  performed  austerity;  from  him, 
•when  he  had  thus  performed  austerity,  the  three  Vedas  were  produced.' 
[See  above,  p.  4.]  Those  other  texts  which  assert  the  eternity  [or 
perpetuity]  of  the  Vedas  refer  merely  to  the  unbroken  continuity  of 
the  stream  of  homogeneous  succession  [or  tradition].  Are  the  Veda?, 
then,  derived  from  any  personal  author  ?  '  No,'  he  replies  in  Sutra  46. 
'  The  Vedas  are  not  derived  from  any  personal  author.  (paurusheya\ 
since  there  is  no  person  to  make  them.'  We  must  supply  the  words, 
'since  an  Isvara  (God)  is  denied.'  The  sense  is  easy.  In  answer  to 
the  supposition  that  there  may  be  Some  other  maker,  he  remarks, 
Sutra  47,  '  No ;  for  there  could  be  no  fit  maker,  either  liberated  or  un- 
liberated.'  Vishnu,  the  chief  of  all  those  beings  who  are  liberated  even 
while  they  live,123  although,  from  the. pure  goodness  of  his  nature,  he  is 
possessed  of  perfect  omniscience,  would,  owing  to  his  impassiveness,  be 

unfit  to  compose  the  Veda  consisting  of  a  thousand  sakhas  (branches), 

i 
128  See  Colebrooke's  Essays,  i.  369,  or  p.  241  of  "Williams  and  Norgate's  ed. 


OF  THE  VEDAS,   HELD   BY   INDIAN  AUTHORS.  135 

while  any  unliberated  person  would  be  unfit  for  the  task  from  want  of 
omniscience.  (See  Ankara's  conjment  on  Brahma  Sutras  i.  1,  3  ;  above, 
p.  106.)  But  do*s  n^t,  then,  the  eternity  of  the  Vedas  follow  from 
their  having  no  personal  Author  ?  He  replies  ('48),  '  Their  eternity  does 
not  result  from  their  having  no  personal  author,  as  in  the  case  of  sprouts, 
etc.'  This  is  cltfar.  But  is  it  not  to  he  inferred  that  sprouts,  etc.,  since 
they  are  products,*  ha?e,  lik^  jars,  etc.,  some  personal  maker?  He  re- 
plies (49J,  '  If  sufth  a  supposition  he  applied  to  these  (sprouts,  etc!)  it 
must  tllere  also  be  exposed  to  the  objection  tftat,it  is  contrary  to  what> 
we  see,  etc.'  Whatever  is  derived  from  a  personal  author  is  produced 
from  a  body ;  this  is  a  rule  which  is  seen  to  hold  invariably.  But  if 
we  assert  that  sprouts  -are  derived  from  a  personal  author,  we  contra- 
dict the  rule  in  question,  [since  they  evidently  did  not  spring  from  any 
embodied  person].'  But  are  not  the  Vedas,  too,  derived  from  a  person, 
seeing  that  they  were  uttered  by  the  primeval  Purusha  ?  He  answers 
(50),  '  That  object  only  (even  though  it  be  an  invisible  one),  which  its 
maker  is  conscious  of  having  made,  can  be  said  to  be  derived  from  [or 
made  by]  such  a  person.'  It  is  only  those  objects,  be  they  seen  or  un- 
seen, in  regard  to  which  a  consciousness  of  design  arises,  that  are  ordi- 
narily spoken  of  as  made  by  a  person.  The  sense  is,  that  it  is  not  mere 
utterance  by  a  person  which  constitutes  formation  by  that  person  (since 
we  do  not  ordinarily  speak  of  the  inspirations  and  expirations  of  any 
person  during  the  time  of  sleep,  as  heing  formed  by  that  person),  but 
only  utterance  with  conscious  dtJsign.  But  the  Vedas  proceed  of  their 
own  accord  from  Svayambhii  (the  self-existent),  like  an  expiration,  by 
the  force  of  adrishta  (destiny),  without  any  consciousness  on  his  part. 
Hence  they  are  not  formed  by  any  person.  Thus  the  Veda  says,  '  This 
Rig-veda,  etc.,  is  the  breath  of  this  great  Being,  etc.'  [See  above, 
p.  8.]  But  will  not  the  Vedas,  also,  be  in  this  way  destitute  of  au- 
thority, like  the  chatter  of  a  parrot,,  since  they  did  not  result  from  any 
knowledge  of  the  correct  meaning  of  the  words  of  which  they  are  made 
up  ?  In  r<*ference  to  T;his,  he  says  (51),  '  The  Vedas»have  a  self -proving 
authority,  since  they  reveal  their  own  inherent  power.'  The  self- 
evidencing  authority  of  the  entire  Vedas  is  established  by  the  per- 
ception of  a  manifestation  in  certain  portions  of  them,  viz.  in  the  for- 
mulas and  the  Ayur-veda,  etc.,  of  that  inherent  power  which  tney  (the 
Vedas)  possess  of  generating  correct  knowledge^  and  does  riot  depend  on 


136  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

i 
its  being  shown  that  they  (the  Vedas)  are  founded  on  Correct  knowledge 

in  their  utterer,129  or  on  any  other  ground  of  that  'sort.  And  to  this 
effect  is  the  Nyaya  Sutra,  that  '  their  authority tis  like  the  authority  of 
the  formulas  and  the  Ayur-veda.'  (See  abova,  p.  114.)*  c 

In  reference  to  the  46th  Sutra  I  add  here  the  98th  aphorism  of  the 
1st  book,  with  the. remarks  by  -which  it  is  introduced  a*nd  followed  : 

Nanu  diet  sadd  sarvajnah  Isvarondsti  tarhivedK.nt&mahd'Kdkyarthasya 
vivckasya  upadese  'ndha  -param'pardsankayd  aprdm&nyam  prasajyeta  \ 
,tattra  aha  \  98.  Siddhcf-rupa-loddhritvd,d  vdkydrthopadesah  \  Hiranya- 
garbhddlndm  siddha-rupdndfii™  yathdrthdrthasya  boddhritvat  tad-vak- 
trikdyurvedddi- prdmdnyena  avadhritdch  cha  eshdm  vdkydrthopadesah 
pramdnam  Hi  seshah  \  «. 

"But  may  it  not  be  said  that  if  there  be  no  eternally  omniscient 
Isvara,  the  charge  of  want  of  authority  will  attach  to 'the  inculcation 
of  discriminative  knowledge  which  is  the  subject  of  the  great  texts  of 
the  Upanishads,  from  the  doubt  lest  these  texts  may  have  been  handed 
down  by  a  blind  tradition.  To  this  he  replies  :  8'6.  '  From  the  fact  that 
beings  perfect  in  their  nature  understood  them,  it  results  that  we  have 
an  (authoritative)  inculcation  of  the  sense.'  As  Hiranyagarbha  (Brah- 
ma) and  other  beings  who  were  perfect  in  their  nature  understood  the 
true  sense,  and  are  ascertained  to  have  done  so  by  the  authoritativeness 
of  the  Ayur-veda,  etc.,  which  they  uttered,  their  inculcation  of  the 
sense  of  the  texts  is  authority ; — such  is  the  complete  meaning  of  the 
aphorism."  « 

In  the  57th  and  following  Sutras  of  the  fifth  book,  Kapila  denies 
that  sound  has  the  character  of  sphota,  or  that  letters  are  eternal : 

57.  " Pratlty-apratltilhydm  na  sphotdtmakah  sabdah"  \  Pratyeka- 
varnebhyo  'tiriJctam  kalasah  ityddi-rupam  akhandam  eka-padam  sphotah 
Hi  yogair  abhyupagamyate  \  kambu-grlvddy-avayavelhyo'tirilcto  ghatddy- 
avayavlva  \  sa  cha  salda-visesho  pqddkhyo  'rtha-sphutlkarandt  sphotah  ity 
uchyate  \  sa  sabdo  'prdmdnikah  \  kutah  |» " pratlty-apratltilhydm  "  |  sa 
sabdah  kirn  pratlyate  na  vd  \  ddye  yena  varna-s'amuddyenat  tinupurn- 

129  This  directly  contradicts  the  doctrine  enunciated  in  the  Vais'eshika  Sutras  and 
the  KusumSnjali.     See  above,  pp.  121,  123,  an'd  129  f. 

130  This  is  a  various  reading  given  by  Dr.  Hall  in  the  appendix  to  his  edition  of 
the  Sankn'ya-pravachana-bhashya ;  and  I  have  adopted  it  in  preference  to  siddha- 
rupasya  which  the  gives  in  his  text,  as  the  former  seems  to  afford  a  better  sense. 


OF    THE  VEDAS,   HELD    BY   INDIAN  AUTHOES.  137 

visesha-vmshtena\o  'Ihivyajyate  tasya  eva  artha-pratydyakatvam  astu  | 
Icim  antargadund  tew{  |  antye  tv  ajndta-sphotasya  nasty  artha-pratydyana- 
saktir  iti  vyarthd^spho^a-kalpand  ity  arthah  |  Purvam  veddndm  nitya- 
tvam  pratistyddham  |  id&nlm  varna  -  nityatvam  api  pratishedati  |  58. 
"JVa  salda-nityatvaiti  kdryatd-pratiteh"  |  Sa  eva  ayam  ga-kdrah  ityddi- 
pratyalhijnd  -  biddd  varna -mlyatv  am  na  yuktam  \.utpanno  ga-kdrah 
ityddi-pratyayena.ani^yatva-siddher  ity  arthah  \  pratyabhijnd  taj-jdtl- 
yatd-mshayinl  \  anyathd^ghatdder  api  pmtyabhijndydh  nityatdpatter  iti  \ 
sankate\  59.  "Purva-siddha-sattvasya  dbhivyaHir  dlpeneva  gliatasya,"  \ 
Nanu  purva-siddha-sattdkasyaiva  saldasya  dhvany-ddilhir  yd  'Ihivyalctis 
tan-mdtram  utpattih  pratlter  vishayah  \  abhivyaktau  drishtdnto  dipeneva 
ghatasya  iti  \  Pariharati^  60.  "Sat-kdryya-siddhdntas  chet  siddha-sddha- 
nam  "  j  Abhivyaldir  'yady  andgatdvasthd  -  tydgena  varttamdndvasthd- 
Idbhah  ity  uchyate  tadd  sat-ltdryya-siddhdntah  \  tddrisa-nityatvam  cha 
sarva-kdrydndm  eva  iti  siddha-sddhanam  ity  arthah  \  yadi  cha  varttamd- 
natayd  satah  eva  jndna-mdtra-rupiny  ablmyaktir  uchyate  tadd  ghatddl- 
ndm  api  nityatvdpattir  ityddi  \ 

"  '  Sound  has  not  the  character  of  sphota,  from  the  dilemma  that  the 
latter  must  be  either  apparent  or  not  apparent.'  A  modification  of  sound 
called  sphota,  single,  indivisible,  distinct  from  individual  letters,  exist- 
ing in  the  form  of  words  like  kalasa  (jar),  distinguished  also  from  parts 
of  words  like  kambu-grlva  (striped-neck)  and  forming  a  whole  like  the 
word  ghata  (jar),  is  assumed  by  the  Yogas.  And  this  species  of  sound 
called  a  word  (pada}  is  designated  sphota  from  its  manifesting  a  mean- 
ing. But  the  existence  of  this  form  of  sound  is  destitute  of  proof. 
Why  ?  '  Erom  the  dilemma  that  it  must  be  either  apparent  or  not  ap- 
parent.' Does  this  form  of  sound  appear  or  not  ?  If  it  appears,  then 
let  the  power  of  disclosing  a  meaning  [which  is  ascribed  by  our  op- 
ponents to  sphota]  be  regarded  as  belonging  to  that  collection  of  letters^ 
arranged  in  a  particular  order,  by  which  the  supposed  sphota  is  mani- 
fested. What  necessity  is  thei;e  then  for  that  superfluous  sphota  ?  If,  on 
the  contrary,  it  does  ftot  appear,  then  that  unknown  sphota  can  have  no 
power  of  disclosing  a  meaning,  and  consequently  it  is  useless  to  suppose 
that  any  such  thing  as  sphota  exists. 

"  The  eternity  of  the  Yedas  has  been  already  denied.  He  now  denies 
the  eternity  of  letters  also.  58.  '  Sound  is  not  eternal,  since  it  is  clear 
that  it  is  a  production.'  The  meaning  is,  that  it  is  not  reasonable  to 


138  OPINIONS   REGARDING  THE  ORIGIN,   ETC.,  t 

t 
infer  on  the  strength  of  the  recognition  of  the  letter  G  as  the  same 

that  we  knew  before  (see  Mimansa  Aphorisms  /.'  13  ;  above,  p.  74), 
that  letters  are  eternal ;  since  it  is  clear  that  pr  anfl  other  letters  are 
produced,  and  therefore  cannot  be  eternal.  ^The  recognition  of  these 
letters  has  reference  to  their  being  of  the  same  species  as  we  have  per- 
ceived before;  since  otherwise  we  are  'landed  in  th0'  absurdity 'that, 
because  we  recognize  a  jar  or  any  other  such  object"  to  be  the  same,  it 
must  therefore  be  eternal.  «<  *• 

p.  c 

"  He  expresses  a  doubt :  59.  '  What  we  hear  may  be  merely  the 
manifestation  of  a  previously  existing  thing,  as  a  jar  is  manifested  (not 
created)  by  the  light  of  a  lamp.'  (See  Mimansa  Aphorisms  i.  12,  13  ; 
above,  p.  74.)  Is  it  not  the  fact  that  it  is  merely  the  manifestation  of 
previously  existing  language  by  sounds,  etc.,  which  we  perceive  as 
originating  ?  An  illustration  of  such  manifestation  is  that  of  a  jar  by 
means  of  a  lamp. 

"  He  repels  this  doubt :  60.  '  If  the  axiom  that  an  effect  exists  in  its 
cause  be  here  intended,  this  is  merely  proving  what  is  already  admitted.' 
If  by  manifestation  is  meant  the  relinquishment  by  any  substance  of  its 
past  (?)  condition,  and  the  attainment  of  its  present  state,  then  we  have 
merely  the  recognized  principle  of  an  effect  virtually  existing  in  its 
cause  (see  Sankhya  Karika  Aph.  ix.) ;  and  as  such  eternity  is  truly 
predicable  of  all  effects  whatever,  it  is  proving  a  thing  already  proved 
to  assert  it  here.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  by  manifestation  be  merely 
meant  the  perception  of  a  thing  actually  existing,  then  we  shall  be  in- 
volved in  the  absurdity  of  admitting  that  jars,  etc.,  also  are  eternal,  etc." 

r 

SECT.  X. — On  the  use  which  the  authors  of  the  different  Darsanas  make 
of  Vedic  texts,  and  the  mode  of  interpretation  which  they  adopt. 

I  have  already  (in  p.  107)  touched  on  the  mode  of  interpretation  ap- 
plied by  the  author  of  the  Brahma  Sutras,  or  his  commentator  S'ankara 
Acharyya,  to  the  Vf.dic  texts,  derived  chiefly  from1  the  Brah/nanas  and 
Upanishads,  on  which  the  Vedantic  doctrines  are  based,  or  by  which  they 
are  defended,  or  with  which,  at  least,  they  are  asserted  to  be  consistent. 
It  will,  however,  be  interesting  to  enquire  a  little  more  in  detail  into  the 
extent  te  which  the  Indian  scriptures  are  appealed  to,  and  the  manner 
in  which  they  are  treated  by  the  authors  or  expounders  of  the  different 


OF    THE    VEDAS,  HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  139 


Darsanas.  Theefy'ect  proposed  by  the  Purva-mimansa  is  an  enquiry 
into  duty  (dharma-ftjnasa — Aph.  i.).  Duty  is  defined  as  something  en- 
joined by  the  ^feda\chodand-^ahhano  'rtho  dharmah — Aph.  ii.);  and 
which  canjiot  be  ascertained  to  be  duty  except  through  such  injunc- 
tion.131 ,  The  first  six  lectures  of  the  Mimansa,  according  to  Mr.  Cole- 
brooke,  "treat 'of  positive  injunction.;  "  the  remaining  six  concern  "in- 
direct command/"  *  The  Authority  of  enjoined  duty  is  the  topic  of  the 
first  leciure :  its  'differences,  and  varieties,  its  parts,  ....  and  the  pur- 
pose of  performance,  are  successively  considered,  in  the  three  next.  .  .> . 
The  order  of  performance  occupies  the  fifth  lecture ;  and  qualification 
for  its  performance  is  treated  in  the  sixth.  The  subject  of  indirect 
precept  is  opened  in  »>he  seventh  lecture  generally,  and  in  the  eighth 
particularly.  Inferable  changes,  adapting  to  the  variation  or  copy 
what  was  designed  for  the  type  or  model,  are  discussed  in  the  ninth, 
and  bars  or  exceptions  in  the  tenth.  Concurrent  efficacy  is  considered 
in  the  eleventh  lecture;  and  co-ordinate  effect  in  the  twelfth."  .... 
"  Other  matters  are  introduced  by  the  way,  being  suggested  by  the 
main  topic  or  its  exceptions"  (Misc.  Essays,  i.  304 f.).  It  appears, 
therefore,  that  the  general  aim  of  the  Purva-mimansa  is  (1)  to  prove 
the  authority  of  the  Yeda,  and  then  to  (2)  deduce  from  it  the  duties, 
whether  enjoined  directly  or  indirectly,  which  are  to  be  performed,  the 
manner  and  conditions  of  their  performance,  and  their  results.  It  is 
also  termed  the  Karma-mimansa,  "as  relating  to  works  or  religious  ob- 
servances to  be  undertaken  for*specific  ends"  (ColeJ)rooke,  i.  296,  325). 
The  Brahma-mimansa,  or  Vedanta,  is,  according  to  the  same  author, 
the  complement  of  the  Karma- mimansa,  and  "is  termed  tittara,  later, 
contrasted  with  purva,  prior,  being  the  investigation  of  proof  deducible 
from  the  Vtedas  in  regard  to  theology,  as  the  other  is  in  regard  to  works 
and  their  merit.  The  two  together,  then,  comprise  the  complete  system 
of  interpretation  of  the  precepts  and  doctrine  of  the  Vedas,  both  prac- 
tical and  theological.  They  -are  parts  of  one  whole.  The  later  Mimansa 
is  supplementary  to  the  prior,  and  is  expressly  affirmed  to  be  so :  but 
differing  on  many  important  points,  though  agreeing  on  others,  they 
are  essentially  distinct  in  a  religious  as  well  as  a  philosophical  view" 
(Misc.  Ess.  i.  325).  In  fact  the  Brahma-mimansa  proceeds  upon  a  de- 
preciation of  the  value  of  the  objects  aimed  at  by  the  Karma-mimansa, 
131  See  Ballantyne's  Mimansa  aphorisms,  p.  7. 


140  OPINIONS   REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,    ETC., 

since  the  rewards  which  the  latter  holds  out  even  in  .-A  future  state  are 
but  of  temporary  duration ;  and  according  to  S'anVara  it  is  not  even 
necessary  that  the  seeker  after  a  knowledge  ofy  Bra.hma  should  first 
have  studied  the  Karma-mimansa  before  hei  conceives1  rt^e  desire  to 
enter  upon  the  higher  enquiry  (nanv  ilia  karmdvalodhanantaryyam  vise- 
shah  |  na  |  dharma-fijndsdya h  prdg  apy  ad*>iita-teddntasy&  Brahma-jynd. 
sopapatteTi).  (S'ankara  on  Brahma  Sutra,  i.  1,  lf  p.  .25  of  Bibl.'  Ind.) 
This  is  distinctly  expressed  in  the  following  passage,  p.  28  : 

Tasmdt  kirn  api  vaktavyam  yad-anantaram  Brahma-jijndsd  upadisyate 
.  Hi  |  uchyate  \  nityanitya-vastu-vivekah  ihdmutrdrtha-phala-lhoga-vira- 
gah  sama-damddi-sddhana-sampad  mumukshatvam  cha  \  tesJiu  hi  satsu 
prdg  api  dharma-jijndstiydh  urddhvam  cha  sakyatf  Brahma  jijndsayitum 
jndtum  cha  na  viparyyaye  \  tasmad  " atha"  sabdvna  yathokta-sddhana- 
sampatty-dnantaryyam  upadisyate  \  "  atah"  sabdo  hetv-arthah  \  yasmdd 
vedah  eva  agnihotrddinum  sreyas-sadhananam  anitya-phalatam  darsayati 
"  tad  yathd  ilia  karma-chito  lokah  kshlyate  evam  eva  amuttra  punya-chito 
lokah  kshlyate"  ity-adi  \  tathu  Brahma-vijnanad  api  par  am  purushdr- 
thaffi  darsayati  Brahma-vid  dpnoti  param  "  ity-adi  \  tasmad  yathokta- 
sadhana-sampatty-anantaram  Brahma-jijndsd  kartavyd  \ 

The  author  is  explaining  the  word  atha  '  now,'  or  '  next,'  with 
which  the  first  Sutra  begins ;  and  is  enquiring  what  it  is  that  is  re- 
ferred to  as  a  preliminary  to  the  enquiry  regarding  Brahma :  "  What, 
then,  are  we  to  say  that  that  is  after  which  the  desire  to  know  Brahma 
is  enjoined? '  The  answer  is,  'it  is  ther discrimination  between  eternal 
and  non-eternal  substance,  indifference  to  the  enjoyment  of  rewards 
either  in  this  world  or  the  next,  the  acquisition  of 'the  means  of  tran- 
quillity and  self-restraint,  and  the  desire  for  final  liberation.  For  if 
these  requisites  be  present,  a  knowledge  of  Brahma  can  be  desired,  and 
Brahma  can  be  known,  even  before,  as  well  as  after,  an  enquiry  has 
been  instituted  into  duty.  But  the  converse  does  not  hold  good  (i.e. 
without  the  requisites  referred  to,  though  a  man  may  have  a  know- 
ledge of  duty,  i.e.  of,  ceremonial  observances,  he  possesses  no,,  prepara- 
tion for  desiring  to  know  Brahma).  Hence  by  the  word  atha  it  is 
enjoined  that  the  desire  in  question  should  follow  the  possession  of 
those  requisites.'  The  next  word  ata~h,  'hence,'  denotes  the  reason. 
Because  the  Yeda  itself,— by  employing  such  words  as  these,  '  Where- 
fore just  as  in  this  life  the  world  which  has  been  gained  by  works 


,  OF    THE    VEDAS,    HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  HI 

perishes,  so  too  'l.n.  a  future  life  the  world  gained  by  merit  perishes ' — 
points  out  that  ti^  rewards  of  the  agnihotra  sacrifice  and  other  in- 
struments of  att«inir%  happiness  are  but  temporary.  And  by  such 
texts  as  th^s,  ^He  who  knows  Brahma  attains  the  highest  exaltation,' 
the  Veda  further  shews  that  the  highest  end  of  man  is  acquired  by  the 
knowledge  of  Brahma.  Hence  the. desire  to  know  Brahma  is  to  be 
entertained  after  the  acquisition  of  the  means  which  have  been  already 
referred,  to."  »  ,  « 

In  the  Mintansa  Sutras,  i.  1,  5,  as  we  have  seen  above  (p.  71),  Badar 
rayana,  the  reputed  author  of  the  Brahma  Sutras,  is  referred  to  as  con- 
curring in  the  doctrine  there  laid  down.  But  in  many  parts  of  the 
Brahma  Sutras,  the  opviions  of  Jaimini  are  expressly  controverted,  both 
on  grounds  of  reason  and  scripture,  as  a\  variance  with  those  of  Bada- 
rayana.132 

I  adduce  some  instances  of  this  difference  of  opinion  between  the 
two  schools  : 

"We  have  seen  above,  p.  99,  that  according  to  the  Brahma  Sutras«the 
gods  possess  the  prerogative  (adhikura)  of  acquiring  divine  science. 
This,  however,  is  contested  by  Jaimini  (see  Brahma  Sutras,  i.  3,  31), 
who  objects  (1)  that  in  that  case  (as  all  divine  sciences  possess  the 
characteristic  of  being  science)  the  gods  would  also  have  the  prerogative 
of  becoming  adepts  in  the  science  called  Madhuvidya,  etc.,  which  would 
be  absurd,  because  the  sun  (Aditya),  being  the  virtual  object  of  worship 
in  the  ritual  connected  with  tlftxt  science,  could  not  be  worshipped  by 
another  sun,  who,  according  to  the  supposition,  would  be  one  of  the 
deities  skilled  in  it,  and  one  of  the  worshippers.  Similar  difficulties 
are  furnished  by  other  cases,  as,  for  instance,  that  on  the  hypothesis 
referred  to,  the  Vasus,  Ruclras,  and  three  other  classes  of  gods,  would 
be  at  once  the  objects  to  be  known  and  the  knowers.  In  the  next 
Sutra  the  further  objection  is  made  (2)  that  the  celestial  luminaries, 
commonly  called  gods,  are  io»  reality  destitute  of  sensation  and  desire  ; 
and  on  this  ground  also  the  prerogative  in  questio&is  denied  to  the  sup- 
posed deities.  Badarayana  replies  in  the  33rd  Sutra  (1)  that  although 

132  Dr.  Ballantyne  refers  to  the  Mlmiinsakas  as  being  the  objectors  alluded  to  by 
S'ankara  in  his  remarks  which  introduce  and  follow  Brahma  Sutra,  i.  1,  4;  but  as 
Jaimini  is  not  expressly  mentioned  there,  I  shall  not  quote  this  text  in  proof  of  my 
assertion.  See  Ballantyne's  Aphorisms  of  the  Vedanta,  p.  12.  » 


142  OPINIONS   REGARDING   THE   ORIGIN,   ETC., 

the  gods  cannot  concern,  themselves  with,  such  branched  of  knowledge  as 
the  Madhuvidya,  with  which  they  themselves  are  mi&ed  up,  yet  they  do 
possess  the  prerogative  of  acquiring  pure  divine  sc[  .enc*,  as  that  depends 
on  the  desire  and  capacity  for  it,  and  the  non-existence  of  a^ny  obstacle 
to  its  acquisition  (tathdpy  asti  hi  suddJidydm  Irahma-vidydydm  samlJiavo 
'rthitva-sdmarthydp'i-atishedhddy-apelcsliatvtid  adhikdrasyti).  An  excep- 
tion in  regard  to  a  particular  class  of  cases  cannot)  he«urges,  set  aside  a 
rule  which  otherwise  holds  good ;  for  if  it  did,,  the  Circumstance  that 
the  generality  of  men  belonging  to  the  three  highest  castes  are  excluded 
from  the  performance  of  particular  rites,  such  as  the  Rajasuya,  would 
have  the  effect  of  rendering  them  incapable  of  performing  any  sacrifice 
whatever.  And  he  goes  on  to  cite  several  Ye/lic  texts  which  prove 
that  the  gods  have  both  the  capacity  and  the  desire  for  divine  know- 
ledge. Thus :  Tad  yo  yo  devundm  pratyabudhyata  sa  eva  tad  abliavat 
tathd  rishlndih  tathd  manushydndm  \  "  Whosoever,  whether  of  gods, 
rishis,  or  men,  perceived  That,  he  became  That."  Again :  Te  ha  uchur 
"  Jt^nta  tarn  dtmdnam  anvichhumo  yam  dtmdnam  anvishya  sarvdn  lolcdn 
dpnoti  sarvdms  cha  Mmdn  "  iti  \  Indro  ha  vai  devundm  abhi  pravavrdja 
Virochano  ' surdnum  iti  \  "They  said,  'come,  we  shall  enquire  after 
that  Soul,  after  investigating  which,  one  obtains  all  worlds,  and  all  ob- 
jects of  desire.'  Accordingly  Indra  among  the  gods,  and  Virochana 
among  the  Asuras,  set  out  "  ("to  go  to  Prajapati  the  bestower  of  divine 
knowledge,"  according  to  Govinda  Ananda).  And  in  reply  to  the  second 
objection,  S'ankara  maintains  that  the  sum  and  other  celestial  luminaries 
are  each  of  them  embodied  deities  possessed  of  intelligence  and  power; 
an  assertion  which  he  proceeds  to  prove  from  texts  both  of  the  Veda  and 
the  Smriti.  He  then  replies  to  a  remark  of  the  Mlmansakas,  referred  to 
under  Sutra  32,  that  allusions  in  the  Yedic  mantras  and  arthavadas  (illus- 
trative passages)  cannot  prove  the  corporeality  of  the  gods,  as  these  texts 
have  another  object  in  view :  and  his  reply  is  that  it  is  the  evidence, 
or  the  want  of  evidence,  derivable  from  any  texts  which  occasions  us  to 
believe  or  disbelieve,  in  the  existence  of  anything  ^and  not  the  circum- 
stance that  such  a  text  was  or  was  not  primarily  intended  to  prove  that 
particular  point.  The  Mimansaka  is  represented  as  still  unsatisfied  :  but 
I  need  not  carry  my  summary  further  than  to  say  that  S'ankara  concludes 
by  pointing  out  that  the' precepts  which  enjoin  the  offerings  to  certain 
gods  imply  that  these  gods  have  a  particular  form  which  the  wor- 


OF   THE   YEDAS,    HELD    BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  143 

shipper  can  contemplate ;  and  that  in  fact  such  contemplation  is  en- 
joined in  the  text,' .XV  Let  the  worshipper  when  about  to  repeat  the 
Vashatkara  meditate  o^  the  deity  to  whom  the  oblation  is  presented  " 
(yasyai  devaffiyai  havir  grihltam  sydt  tarn  dhydyed  vashatkarishyan}.133 

In  Brahma  Sutras,  iii.  4,  1,  it  is  laid  down* as  the  principle  of  Bada- 
rayan'a  that  the  knowledge  of  Soul,  described  in  the  4Jpanishads,  is  the 
sole  means  of  attaining  the  highest  end  of  man,  i.e.  final  liberation; 
that  it  is  not  to  lie  sought  with  a  view  to,  and  that  its  operation  is 
altogether  independent  of,  ceremonial  observances^  <^#/«  |  asmdt  veddnta-t 
vihitdd  dtma-jndndt  svatantrdt  purusJidrtJiah  siddhyati  iti  Bddardyanah 
dcJiaryyo  jnanyate}.  This  he  proves  by  various  texts  (ity-evam-jdtlyaTcd 
srutir  vidydydh  Icevaldydh  purushdrtha  -  hetutvam  srdvayati],  such  as 
Tarati  so/cam  dtma-vit  \  sa  yo  ha  vai  tqf  param  Bfahma  veda  Brahma  eva 
Ihavati  \  Brahma-vid  tipnoti  param  \  "He  who  knows  soul  overpasses 
grief"  (Chhandogya  Up.  see  above,  p.  33) ;  "  He  who  knows  that  Brah- 
ma becomes  Brahma ;"  "  He  who  knows  Brahma  obtains  the  highest 
(exaltation) ;  "  etc.  In  the  following  Sutra  (2)  Jaimini  is  introduced 
as  contesting  this  principle,  and  as  affirming  that  the  knowledge  of  soul 
is  to  be  acquired  with  a  view  to  the  performance  of  ceremonial  works. 
The  Sutra  in  question,  as  explained  by  S'ankara,  means  that  "  as  the 
fact  that  soul  is  an  agent  in  works  implies  an  ultimate  regard  to  works, 
the  knowledge  of  soul  must  also  be  connected  with  works  by  means  of 
its  object"  (karttritvena  dtmanah  Jcarma-seshatvdt  tad-vijndnam  api  .  .  . 
visliaya-dvdrena,  karma-samlandhfi  eva  iti}.  The  same  view  is  further 
stated  in  the  following  Sutras  3-7,  where  it  is  enforced  by  the  example 
of  sages  who  possessed  the  knowledge  of  Brahma  and  yet  sacrificed 
(Sutra  3),  by  a  text  which  conjoins  knowledge  and  works  (Sutra  5),  by 
a  second  which  intimates  that  a  person  who  knows  all  the  contents  of 
the  Yeda  has  a  capacity  for  ceremonial  rites  (Sutra  6),  and  by  others  (7). 
S'ankara  replies  under  Sutra  8  to  the  view  set  forth  in  Sutra  2,  which  he 
declares  to  be  founded  on  a  mistake,  as  "the  soul  which  is  proposed  in 
the  Upanishads  as  thS  object  of  knowledge  is  not  .the  embodied  soul, 
but  the  supreme  Spirit,  of  which  agency  in  regard  to  rites  is  not  pre- 
dicable.  That  knowledge,  he  affirms,  does  not  promote,  but  on  the 

133  The  passage  in  which  S'ankara  goes  on  to  answer  the  objection  that  in  cases 
like  this  the  Itihasas  and  Puranus  afford  no  independent  evidence,  will  fce  quoted 
below.  ' 


144  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,    ETC. 

contrary,  puts  an  end  to  all  works "  (na  cha  tad-n&ndnam  karmandm 
pravarttakam  lhavati  pratyuta  tat  karmdny  uclichhity-tti],  and  under  Sutra 
16  he  explains  how  this  takes  place,  viz.  by  th^  fackthat  "  knowledge 
annihilates  the  illusory  conceptions  of  work,  V  orker,  and  regard,  which 
are  caused  by  ignorance,  and  are  necessary  conditions  of  capacity  for 
ceremonial  observances"  (Api  cha  karmddhikdra-hetfrh  kriyd-kdraka- 
phala-lakshanasya  samastasya  prapanchasya  avidyik-krvtasya  vidya-samar- 
thydt  svarupopamarddatn  dmanarM).  To  Sutra  3  Badsi'ayana  replies  that 
,the  ceremonial  practice  of  sages  is  the  same  whether  they  do  oV  do  not 
acquire  knowledge  with  a  view  to  works  ;  to  Sutra  5,  by  saying  that  in 
the  text  in  question  works  and  knowledge  are  not  referable  to  one  and 
the  same  person,  but  works  to  one  and  knowledge  to  another ;  and  to 
Sutra  6,  by  declaring  that  it  is  merely  the  reading1  of  the  Veda,  and  not  a 
knowledge  of  all  its  contents  that  is  referred  to  in  the  text  in  question. 
Another  reason  assigned  in  Sutra  17  to  shew  that  divine  knowledge  is 
not  dependent  on,  'or  subservient  to  works,  is  that  ascetics  who  practise 
no  Vedic  ceremonies  are  yet  recognized  in  the  Veda  as  competent  to 
acquire  it  (urdhhvaretassu  cha  usrameshu  vidyd  sruyate  na  cha  tattra  kar- 
mangatvam  vidyaydh  upapadyate  karmdbhdvtit  \  na  hy  agnihottrddlni  vai- 
dikdni  karmdni  teshdm  santi}.  In  the  following  Sutra  (18)  Jaimini  is 
introduced  as  questioning  the  validity  of  this  argument  on  the  ground 
that  the  Vedic  texts,  which  are  adduced  in  support  of  it,  merely  allude  to 
the  existence  of  ascetics,  and  do  not  recognize  such  an  order  as  consistent 
with  Vedic  usage,  or  that  they  have  another  object,  or  are  ambiguous  ; 
while  another  text  actually  reprehends  the  practice  of  asceticism.  To 
this  Badarayana  rejoins  in  Sutra  19,  that  the  texts  in  question  prove 
the  recognized  existence  of  the  ascetic  order  as  much  as  that  of  any 
other  ;  and  that  the  alleged  ambiguity  of  one  of  the  passages  is  removed 
by  the  consideration  that  as  two  of  the  three  orders  referred  to,  viz. 
those  of  the  householder  and  brahmacharin,  are  clearly  indicated,  the 
third  can  be  no  other  than  that  of  the  ascetic.  The  subject  is  further 
pursued  in  the  nex*  Sutra  20,  where  the  authorrand  his  commentator 
(who  adduces  additional  texts)  arrive  at  the  conclusion  that  the  prac- 
tice of  asceticism  is  not  only  alluded  to,  but  enjoined  in  the  Veda,  and 
that  consequently  knowledge,  as  being  inculcated  on  those  who  practise 
it,  is  altogether  independent  of  works  (tasmdt  siddhd  urddhvaretasah 
asramdh  sidftham  cha  urddhvaretassu  vidhdndd  vidyaydh  svutantryam}. 


OF    THE    VEDAS,    HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  145 

Again  in  Brahn,^.  Sutras,  iv.  3,  7-14,  the  question  is  discussed  whether 
the  words  sa  etdn  A, ;tihma  gamayati,  "He  conducts  them  to  Brahman," 
refer  to  the  supreme  Brahma,  or  to  the  created  Brahma.  Bildari 
(Sutra  7)  holds 'that  the  latter  is  meant,  whilst  Jaimini  (in  Sutra  12) 
maintains  that  the  former  is  intended.  The  conclusion  to  which  the 
comm'entaior  comes  at  the  closfe  of  his  remarks  on  Sitra  H  is  that  the 
view  ta"ken  by  Badari.is  right,  whilst  Jaimini's  opinion  is  merely  ad- 
vanced to  display  ^s  own  ability  (tasmtit  "  kdryyam  Bddarir"  ity  esha 
eva  pahfiah  sthitah  \  "  param  Jaiminir"  iti  cka  pakshdntara-pratipd-% 
dana-mdttra-pradarsanam  prajnd-vikdsandya  iti  drashtavyam}. 

Further,  in  Brahma  Sutras,  iv.  4,  10,  it  is  stated  to  be  the  doctrine 
of  Badari  that  the  sage,  who  has  attained  liberation  no  longer  retains 
his  body  or  bodily  organs,  but  his  mind  (manas)  alone,  whilst  in  the 
following  Sutra  (11)  it  is  declared  to  be  Jaimini's  opinion  that  he  re- 
tains his  body  and  senses  also.  In  the  12th  Sutra  it  is  laid  do\^p  as 
the  decision  of  Badarayana  that  either  of  the  two  supposed  states  may 
be  assumed  at  will  by  the  liberated  spirit. 

Jaimini  and  his  opinions  are  also  mentioned  in  Brahma  Sutras  i.  2, 
28,  and  31 ;  i.  4,  18  ;  and  iv.  4,  5. 

I  shall  now  adduce  some  illustrations  of  the  claims  which  the 
founders  of  the  other  philosophical  schools  put  forward  on  behalf  of 
their  own  principles  as  being  in  conformity  with  the  Vedas.  I  begin 
with  a  passage  on  this  subject  from  S'ankara's  note  introductory  to 
Brahma  Sutras  i.  1,  5  ff. :  * 

Brahma  cha  t>arvajnam  sarvasaktijagad-utpatti-sthiti-ndsa-kdranam  ity 
uktam  |  Sdnkhyddayal  tu  parinishthitam  vastu  pramdndntara-gamyam  eva 
iti  manyamdndh  pradhdnddmi  kdrandntardni  anumimdnds  tat-paratayd 
eva  veddnta-vdkydni  yojayanti  \  sarveshv  evd  tu  veddnta-vdkyeshu  srishti- 
vishayeshu  anumdnena  eva  kdryyena  kdranam  lilakxliayiahitam  \  Pra- 
dhdna-purusha-samyogdh  nitydnumeydh  iti  Sdnkhydh  manyante  \  Kdnd- 
dds  tc  etebhyah  eva  vdkyebhyah  Isvaram  nimttta-kdranam  anumimate 
anums  cha  samavai/i-k.iranam  \  evam  anye  ' 'pi  tdikikdfy  vdhydbhdsa-yukty- 
dbhdsdvashtumbhdh  purca-paksha-vddinah  ilia  uttishthante  \  tattra  pada- 
vdkya-pramuna-jnena  dchdryyena  veddnta-vuki/dnum  Brahmdvagati-para- 
tva-pradarsandya  vdkydbhdsa -yukty-dbhdxa-i>ratipattayah  purvapakshl- 
Icritya  nirdkriyante  \  tattra  Sdnkhydh  pradhditam  triyunam  affretanam 
jayatah  kdranam  iti  manyamdndh  dhur  "  ydni  veddnta-vdkyini  sarvajna' 

10 


146  OPINIONS    REGARDING   THE    ORIGIN,  ETC., 

i 

sya  sarvasakter  Brahmano  jagat-kdranatvam  pratiwfttayanti  ity  avochas 
tdni  pradhdna-kdrana-pakshe  'pi  yojayitum   sakutnte   \    sarvasaktitvam 
tdvat  pradhdnasydpi  sva-vikdra-vishayam  upapridyade  \  evam  sarvajna- 
tvam upapadyate  \  katham  \  yat  tvam  jndnam  fmanyase  sa  saftva-dharmah 
"  sattvdt  sanjdy ate  jndnam"  Hi  smriteh    \    tena  cha  sattva-dharmena 
jndnena  kdryya-kflranavantah  purushdh  sarvajndh  yogtnah  prasiddhdh  \ 
sattvasya  hi  niratisayotkarshe  sarvajnatvam  prasiddham  \  na  cha  kevalasya 
akdryya-kdranasya  purushasya"  upalabdhi-mdtfc'asycf'sarva-jnatvam  kin- 
'chij-jnatvam  vd  kalpqyitum  Sakyam  \  trigunatvdt  tu  pradhdnasya  sarva- 
jndna-kdrana-bhutam  sattvam  pradhdndvasthdydm  apividyate  iti  pradhd- 
nasya achetanasya  eva  satah  sarvajnatvam  upachcCryyate  veddnta-vdkyeshu  \ 
avasyam  cha  tvayd  ''pi  sarvajnam  Brahma  alhyupagachhatd  sarva-jndna- 
saktimattvena  eva  sarvajnatvam  abhyupagantavyam  \  na  hi  sarva-vishayam 
jndnam  kurvad  eva  Brahma  varttate  \  tathd  hijndnasya  nityatve  jndna- 
kr^dm  prati  svdtantryam  hlyeta  \  atha  anityam  tad  iti  jndna-kriydydh 
uparame  uparameta  api  Brahma   \  tadd  sarva-jndna-iaktimattvena  eva 
sarvajnatvam  dpatati  \  api  cha  prdg  utpatteh  sarva-kdraka-sunyam  Brah- 
ma ishyate  tvayd  \  na  cha  jndna-sddhandndm  sarirendriyddlndm  alhdve 
jndnotpattih  kasyachid  upapannd  \  api  cha  pradhdnasya  anekdtmakasya 
parindma-sambhavdt  kdranatvopapattir  mrid-ddi-vat  \   na  asamhatasya 
ekdtmakasyaBrahmanah  \  ity  evam  prdpte  idam  sutram  dralhyate  \  5.  "Ik- 
shater  na  \  asabdam"  \  na  Sdnkhya-parikalpitamachetanampradhdnamja- 
gatah  kdranam  sakyam  veddnteshv  dsrayitum  \  asabdam  hi  tat  \  katham 
asaldam  \  "  ikshiteh"  \  ikshitritva-srdvandt  kdranasya  \  katham  \  evam  hi 
sruyate  "Sad  eva  saumya  idam  agre  dsld  ekam  eva  qdvitiyam  "  ity  upakra- 
mya"  tad  aikshata  '  bahu  sydm  prajdyeya1  iti  tat  tejo  'srijata"  iti  \  tattra 
idam-sabda-vdchyam  ndma-rupa-vydkritam  jagat  prdg  utpatteh  sad-dt- 
mand  'vadhdryya  tasya  eva  prakritasya  sach-chhabda-vdch?iasya  ikshana- 
purvakam  tejah-prabhriteh  srashtritvam  darsayati  \   tathd  cha  anyatra 
"  dtmd  vai  idam  ekah  eva  agre  dslt  \  na  any  at  kinchana  mishat  \  sa  aik- 
shata 'lokdn  nu  srijai'  iti  sa  imdn  lokdn"asrijata  "  iti  ikshd-purvikdm  eva 
srishtim  dchashte  f .  .  .  .  ity-evam-ddlny  api  sarvajnesvara-kfcrana-pardni 
vdkydny  uddharttavydni  \  yat  tu  uktam  "  sattva-dharmena  jndnena  sar- 
vajnam pradhdnam  bhavishyati  "  iti  tad  na  upapadyate  \  na  hi  pradhd- 
ndvasthdydm guna-sdmydt  sattva-dharmo  jndnam   sambhavati   \   nanu 
uktam* "  sarva-jndna-saktimattvena  sarvajnam  bhavishyati"  iti  tad  api  na 
upapadyate    \  yadi  grna-sdmye  sati  sattva-vyapdsraydih  jndna-iaktim 


,         OF    THE  VEDAS,   HELD   BY   INDIAN   AUTHORS.  147 

dsritya  sarvajnam  ^radhdnam  uchyeta  kdmam  rajas-tamo-vyapdsraydm 
api  jndna-pratilandh^fli-saktim  dsritya  kinchij-jnatvam  uchyeta  \  api  cha 
na  asdkshikd  sattvh-vrntir  j'dndti,  na  abhidhiyate  \  na  cha  achetanasya 
pradhdnasya  \sakshitvam  aiti  \  tasmdd  anupannam  pradhdnasya  sarvaj'na- 
tvam  |  yofffndm  tu  chetanatvdt  sarvotkarsha-nimittam  sarvaj'natvam  upa- 
pannam  ity  amitldharanam  \  atha  punah  sdkshi-nimittam  ikshitritvam 
pradhdnasya  kalpfeta  *yathdtagni-nimittam  ayah-pinddder  dagdhritvam 
tathd  sati,yan-nimitiam  ihshitritvam pradhdnasya  tad  eva  sarvajnam  mukh- 
yam  Brahma  jagatah  kdranam  iti  yuktam  \  yat  'punar  uktam  Brahmano 
Jpi  na  mukhyam  sarvajnatvam  upapadyate  nitya-jndna-kriyatve  j'ndna- 
kriytim  prati  svdtantryasambhavdd  ity  attra  uchyate  \  idaih  tdvad  bhavtin 
prashtavyah  " Icatham  nitya-jndna-kriyatve sarvajnatva-hdnir"  iti\  yasya 
hi  sarva-vishayduabhusana-kshamam  j'ndnam  nityam  asti  so  'sarvajnah  iti 
vipratishiddham  \  anityatve  hi  jndnasyaJtaddchij  jdndti  kaddchidna  jdndti 
ity  asarvaj'natvam  api  sydt  \  na  asau  jndna-nityatve  dosho  'sti  \  jndna- 
nityatve  jndna-vishayah  svdtantrya-vyapade&o  na  upapadyate  iti  chet  \ 
na  \  pratataushna-prahdse  'pi  savitari  dahati  prakdsayati  iti  svdtantrya- 
vyapadesa-darsandt  \  nanu  savitur  ddhya-praMsya-samyoge  sati  dahati 
prakdsayati  iti  vyapadesak  sydt  \  na  tu  Brahmanah  prdg  utpatter  jndna- 
karma-samyogo  'sti  iti  vishamo  drishldntah  \  na  \  asaty  api  karmani  savitu 
prakdsate  iti  karttritva-vyapadesa-darsandt  \  evam  asaty  api  jndna-kar- 
mani Brahmanas  "  tad  aikshata"  iti  karttritva-vyapadesopapatter  na  vai- 
shamyam  \  karmdpekshdydm  tu  Brah,mani  ikshitritva-srutayah  sutardm 
upapanndh  \  kim  punas  tat  karma  yat  prdg  utpatter  Isvara-j'ndnasya 
vishayllhavati  iti  \  tattvdnyatvdbhydm  anirvachanlye  ndma-rupe  avyti- 
krite  vydchiklrshite  iti  Irumah  \  yat-prasdddd  hi  yogindm  apy  atitdnd- 
gata-vishayam  pratyaksham  jndnam  ichhant\  yoga-sdstra-vidah  kimu  vak- 
tavyam  tasya^nitya-suddhasya  isvarasya  srishti-sthiti-samhriti-vishayam 
nitya-jndnam  lhavati  iti  \  yad  Spy  uktam  prdg  utpatter  Brahmanah  sarl- 
rddi-samlandham  antarena  ikshitritvam  anupapannam  iti  na'tach  chodyam 
avatarati  savitri-prakdsa-vad  Brahmano  jndna-svarupa-nityatrena  jndna- 
sddhandpekjhdnupapatteh  |  .  .  .  .  yad  apy  uktam  " pradhdnasya  anekdt- 
makatvdd  mrid-ddi-vat  kdranatvopapattir  na  asamhatasya  Brahmanah " 
iti  tat  pradhdnasya  asaldatvenaev^pratyuktam  \  yathd  tu  tarkendpi  Brah- 
manah eva  kdranatvam  nirvodhum  sakyate  na  pradhdnddmdih  tathd  pra- 
panchayishyate  "  na  vilakshanatvdd  asya"  ity-evam-ddind  (Brahma  Su- 
tras ii.  1,  4)  |  -, 


148  OPINIONS    REGAKDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

Attra  aha  yad  uktam  "  na  achetanam  pradhdnamjUgat-kuranam  ikshi- 
tritva-sravandd  "  iti  tad  anyathd'py  ,upapadyate,^  achetane  'pi  chetana- 
vad  upachdra-darsandt  \  pratydsanna-pdtanatdni.kulaxya  dlakshi/a  kulam 
pipatishati  ity  achetane  'pi  kule  chetana-vad  upachdro  drishta?,tad-vad  ache- 
fane  'pi  pradhdne  pratydsanna-sarge  chetana-vad  upachdro  bhavishyati 
"tad  aikshata"  tti  \  yathd  lake  kaschich  chetanah  sridtvd  bhuktvd  cha 
"  apardhnegrdmam  rathena  gamishydmi"  if.i  IksMtvfr  anantaram  tathaiva 
niyamena  pravarttate  tathd  pradhunam  api  makad-d&y-ukdrena*  niyamena 
pravarttate  \  ta&mdck,  chetana-vad  upacharyyate  \  kasmdt  punaK  Jcarttnad 
vihuya  mukhyam  ikshitritvam  aupachdrikam  kalpyate  \  "  tat  tejah  aik- 
shata "  "  tdh  dpah  aikshanta"  iti  cha  achetanayor  apy  ap-tejasos  chetana- 
vad  upachdra-darsanat  |  tasmdt  sat-karltrikam' api  ikshanam  aupachuri- 
kam  iti  gamyate  upaehdra-prdye  vachandd  ity  evam  prdpte  idam  sutram 
drabhyate  \  6.  "Gaunas  chet  \  na  \  dtma-sabddt"  \  yad  uktam  pradhunam 
achetanam  sach-chhabda-vdchyam  tasminn  aupachdrikl  ikshitir  ap-tejasor 
iva  iti  tad  asat  \  kasmdt  \  dtma-sabddt  \  "  sad  eva  saumya  idam  agre 
asld"  ity  upakramya  "tad  aikshata  tat  tejo  'srijata  "  iti  cha  tejo  'b-annd- 
ndm  srishtim  uktvd  tad  eva  prakritam  sad  ikshitri  tuni  cha  tejo-b-anndni 
devatd-sabdena  pardmrisya  aha  "  su  iyam  devatd  aikshata  hanta  aham 
imds  tisro  devatdh  anena  jivena  dtmand  'nupravisya  ndma-rupe  vydkara- 
vdni"  iti  |  tattra  yadi  pradhunam  achetanam  guna-vrittyu  ikshitri  kal- 
pyeta  tad  eva  prakritatvdt  sd  iyam  devatd  pardmrisyeta  \  na  tadd  devatd 
jlvam  dtma-sabdena  abhidadhydt  \  jlvo  hi  ndma  chetanah  sarlrddhyakshah 
prdnandm  dhdrayitu  prasiddher  nirvdchandch  cha  \  sa  katham  achetanasya 
pradhdnasya  dtmd  bhavet  \  dtmd  hi  ndmd  svarupam  \  na  achetanasya 
pradhdnasya  chetano  jlvah  svdrupam  bhavitum  arhati  \  attra  tu  che- 
tanam  Brahma  mukhyam  ikshitri  parigrihyate  \  tasya  jlva-vishayah 
atma-sabda-prayogah  upapadyate  \  tathd  "  sa  yah  eshof'mmd  etaddt- 
myam  idam  sarvam  tat  satyam  sa  dtfkd  tat  tvam  asi  S'vetaketo  "  ity 
attra  "  sa  dtmd  "  iti  prakritam  sad-anirndnam  dtmunam  dtma-sabdena 
upadisya  "tat  tvam  asi  S'vetaketo"  iti'-chetanasya  S'vetaketor  dtmatvena 
upadisati  \  ap  -  tkjasos  tu  vishayatvdd  achetanatvam  ntimtf-  rupa  -  vyd- 
karanudau  cha  prayojyatvena  eva  nirdesut  \  na  cha  dtma  -  sabda  -  vat 
kinchid  mukhyatve  kdranam  asti  iti  y.uktam  kula-vad  gaunatvam  ikshi- 
tritvasya  \  tayor  api  cha  sad-adhishfhitatvdpeksham  eva  tks/n'tritvam  \ 
satas  iv  dtma-sabddd  na  gaunam  ikshitritvam  ity  uktam  \  atha  uchyate  \ 
achetane' pi  pradhune  bhavaty  dtma-sabdah  \  dtmanah  sarvdrtha-kdritvdt  \ 


t         OF  THE  VEDAS,  .HELD   BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  149 

yathd  rdjnah  sarvd.-fha-7cdrini  bhritye  bhavaty  dtma-sabdo  "mama  utmd 
Bhadrasenah  "  iti  \  prndhdnam  hi  yurushdtmano m  bhogdpavargau  kurvad 
upakaroti  rdjnah  ufe  bhfytyah  sandhi-vigrahddishu  varttamdnah  \  athavd 
ekah  eva  dtr^a-sabdas  chelandchetana-vishayo  bhavishyati  "bhutdtmd" 
"  indriydtmd  "  iti  cha  prayoga-darsandd  yathd  ekah  eva  jyotih-sabdah 
kratu-jvalana-visJtayah  \  tattra  kutah  etad  dtma-sabdddlkshiter  agaunatvam 
ity  attra  uttaram  p&thati  \  7.  "  Tan-nishthasya  mokshopadesat  "  |  na  pra- 
dhanam afhetanam  &tma-$abdalambanam  'bhavitum  arhati  "sa  utmd"  iti 
prakritafh,  sad  animunam  uddya  "  tat  tvam  asi  S^vetaketo  "  iti  chetanasya 
S'vetaketor  mokshayitavyasya  tan-nishthdm  upadisya  "  Acharyyavan  pu- 
rusho  veda  tasya  tdvad  eva  chiram  ydvad  na  vimokshye  atha  sampatsye" 
iti  mokshopadesdt  \  yadiJiy  achetanam  pradhdnam  saeh-chhabda-vdchyam 
"tad  asi"  iti  grdhayeU  mumukshum  chetanam  santam  "  achetano  'si" 
iti  tadd  viparlta-vddi  sdstram  purushasya  anarthdya  ity  apramdnam 
sydt  |  na  tu  nirdosham  sdstram  apramdnam  kalpayitum  yuktam  \  yadt 
cha  ajnasya  sato  mumukshor  achetanam  andtmdnam  "  utmd  "  ity  upadiset 
pramdna-bhutam  sdstram  sa  sraddadhdnatayd  'ndha-go-langula-nydyena 
tad-dtma-drishtim  na  parityajet  tad-vyatiriktam  cha  dtmdnam  na  prati- 
padyeta  \  tathd  sati  purushdrthdd  vihanyeta  anartham  cha  richhet  \  tas- 
mdd  yathd  svargddy-arthino ' ' gnihotrddi-sddhanam  yathd-bhutam  upadi- 
sati  tathd  mumukshor  api  " sa  atmd  \  tat  tvam  asi  S'vetaketo"  iti 
yathd  -  bhutam  eva  dtmdnam  upadisati  iti  yuktam  \  evam  cha  sati 
tapta  -parasu  -grahana  -moksha-drishtdntena  satydbhisandhasya  moksho- 
padesah  upapadyate  |  .  .  .  .  ta&mdd  na  sad  -  animany  dtma  -  sabdasya 
gaunatvam  \  bhritye  tu  svdmi  -  bhritya  -  bhedasya  pratyakshatvdd  upa- 
panno  gaunah  dtma-sabdo  "  mama  dtma,  Bhadrasenah "  iti  \  api  cha 
kvachid  gaunah  sabdo  drishtah  iti  na  etdvatd  sabda-pramdnake  'rthe 
gaum  kalpand  nydyyd  sarvattra  andsvdsa  -prasangdt  \  yat  tu  uktafn 
chetandchetanayoh  sddhdranah  dtma-sabdah  kratu-jvalanayor  iva  jyotih- 
sabdah  iti  \  tad  na  \  anekdrthatvasya  anydyyatvdt  \  tasmdch  chetana- 
vishayah  eva  mukhyah  dtma-saMas  chetanatvopachdrdd  bhutddishu  pra- 
yujyate  "  blvitdtmd  "  '*"  indriydtmd  "  iti  cha  \  sddhtiranatve  Jpy  dtma- 
sabdasya  na  prakaranam  upapadam  vd  kinchid  niichdyakam  antarena  an- 
yatara-vrittitd  nirdhdrayitum  sakyate  I  na  cha  atra  achetanasyanischd- 
yakam  kinchit  kdranam  asti  prakritam  tu  sad  ikshitri  sanmliitas  cha 
chvtanah  S'vetaketuh  \  na  hi  chetanasya  S'vetakeCor  achetanah  dtmd  sam- 
114  The  edition  printed  in  Bengali  characters  reads  purushasya  afmanah. 


150  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE.  ORIGIN,   ETC., 

bhavati  ity  avochama  \  tasmdch  chetana-vishayah  iha  dtma-6abdah  iti 
nischlyate  \  ,  • 

"  And  it  has  been  declared  that  Brahma,  omnfsciett-t  and  omnipotent, 
is  the  cause  of  the  creation,  continuance,  and' destruction  qf  the  world. 
But  the  Sankhyas  and  others,  holding  that  an  ultimate  (parinishthita)™5 
substance  is  discoverable  by  other  proofs,  and  inferring' the  existence  of 
Pradhana  or  other  causes,  apply  the  texts  of  the>Upunishads  as  having 
reference  to  these.  For  (they  assert  that)  all  the  texfe  of  the  Upauishads 
•which  relate  to  the  crpation,  design  inferentially  to  indicate  the  'cause  by 
the  effect.  The  Sankhyas  think  that  the  conjunctions  of  Pradhana  and 
Purusha  (Soul)  are  to  be  inferred  as  eternal.  From  the  very  same  texts 
the  followers  of  Kanada  (the  Yaiseshikas)  deduce  that  Isvara  is  the  in- 
strumental cause  and  atoms  the  material  cause 136  (of  the  world).  So,  too, 
other  rationalizing  objectors  rise  up  who  rely  on  fallacies  founded  on  texts 
or  reasoning.  Here  then  our  teacher  (achdryya),  who  understood  both 
words  and  sentences  and  evidence,  with  the  view  of  pointing  out  that 
the  texts  of  the  Upanishads  have  for  their  object  the  revelation  of 
Brahma,  first  puts  forward  and  then  refutes  the  fallacies  founded  by 
those  persons  on  texts  or  reasoning.  The  Sankhyas  regarding  Pradhana, 
consisting  of  the  three  qualities  (gunas,  viz.  sattva,  rajas,  and  tamas,  or 
"  Goodness,"  "  Passion,"  and  "  Darkness  "),  and  inanimate,  as  the  cause 
of  the  world,  tell  us :  (a) '  Those  texts  in  the  Upanishads  which,  as  you 
say,  declare  that  an  omniscient  and  omnipotent  Brahma  is  the  cause  of 
the  world,  can  be  applied  to  support'  the  view  that  Pradhana  is  the 
cause.  For  omnipotence  in  regard  to  its  own  developments  is  properly 
predicable  of  Pradhana  also ;  and  omniscience  too  may  be  rightly 
ascribed  to  it.  You  will  ask,  how  ?  "We  answer  (5),  "What  you  call  know- 
ledge is  a  characteristic  of  '  Goodness '  (sattva),  according  to  the  text  of 
the  Smriti,  'From  Goodness  springs  knowledge.'  And  (c)  through  this 
knowledge,  which  is  a  characteristic  of  Goodness,  Yogins,  who  are  men 

i, 

135  Compare  Sankhya  Sutras,  i.  69;  paramparyye  'p&  ekatra  parinishtha,  etc., 
•which  Dr.  Ballantyne  renders,  "  Even  if  there  be  a  succession,  there  is  a  halt  (pari- 
tiishtha)  at  some  one  point,*"  etc. 

1.36  The^phrase  so  translated  is  samavayi-karanam.  The  word  samavaya  is  rendered 
by  Dr.  Ballantyne,  in  his  translation  of  the  fihashaparichheda  (published  January, 
1851),  p.  22,  by  "intimate  Delation"  (the  same  phrase  as  Dr.  Roer  had  previously 
employed  in  1850) ;  and  in  the  translation  of  the  Tarka-sangraha  (published  in 
September  of  frie  same  year^,  pp.  2  and  4,  by  "  co-inherence." 


OF    THE   VEDAS,   HELD    BY    INDIAN   AUTHORS.  151 

with  bodily  organs,137  are  reputed  to  be  omniscient;  for  owing  to  the 
transcendent  excellence  of  Goodness  its  omniscience  is  matter  of  notoriety. 
Nor  it  is  only  of  ia  person  (purmha)  whose  essence  is  mere  perception, 
and  who  is  dev6id  of  corporeal  organs,  that  either  omniscience  or  partial 
knowledge  can  be  predicated :  but  from  Pradhana  being  composed  of 
the  three  qualities,  Goodness,  which  is  the  cause  of  omniscience,  belongs 
to  it  tdo  in  the  condition  of  Pradhana.  And  so  in  the  texts  of  the  Upa- 
nishads  pmniscien«e  is  figuratively  ascribed  to  it,  although  it  is  uncon- 
scious. "  And  (d]  you  also,  who  recognize  an  omniscient  Brahma,  must 
of  necessity  acknowledge  that  His  omniscience  consists  in  His  possessing 
the  power  of  omniscience.  For  He  does  not  continually  exercise  know- 
ledge in  regard  to  all  objects.  For  (e}  if  His  knowledge  were  continual. 
His  self-dependence  (or  voluntary  action)  in  reference  to  the  act  of  know- 
ledge would  be  lost.  But  if  knowledge  be  not  continual,  then  when 
the  act  of  knowledge  ceases  Brahma  must  cease  (to  know).  And  so 
omniscience  results  from  the  possession  of  the  power  of  omniscience. 
Further  (/)  you,  too,  hold  that  before  the  creation  Brahma  was  devoid 
of  any  impulse  to  action.  Nor  can  knowledge  be  conceived  to  arise  in 
anyone  who  has  no  bodily  organs  or  other  instruments  of  knowledge. 
Moreover  (g}  causality  can  properly  be  ascribed  to  Pradhana  (as  it  can 
to  earth,  etc.)  owing  to  the  variety  in  its  nature,138  and  the  consequent 
possibility  of  its  development,  but  not  to  Brahma  whose  essence  is  simple 
and  uniform.'  These  arguments  having  been  urged,  the  following  Sutra 
is  introduced :  5.  'No;  for  in  coasequence  of  the  word  'beholding'  being 
employed,  your  view  is  contrary  to  the  Veda.'  (a)  The  unconscious  Pra- 
dhana, imagined  by  the  Sankhyas  as  the  cause  of  the  world,  can  find  no 
support  in  the  TJpanishads.  For  it  is  unscriptural.  How  so  ?  From  its 
beholding,  i.e.  because  the  act  of  'beholding'  (or  'reflecting')  is  in  scrip- 
ture ascribed  to  the  cause.  How?  Because  the  Yeda  contains  a  text  which 
begins  thus  :  '  This,  o  fair  youth,  was  in  the  beginning'  '  Existent,  one 
without  a  second'  (Chh.  Tip.  yi.  2,  1);  and  proceeds:  'It  beheld,  let 

137  The  epithet  Jcaryyd-Jiaranavantah  is  rendered  dehendrrya-yukta  in  the  Bengali 
translation  of  S'ankara's  comment,  which  forms  part  of  (the  edition  of  the  S'arlraka- 
sutras,  with  comment  and  gloss,  published  at  Calcutta  in  1784  of  the  S'aka  sera.    This 
translation  is  useful  for  ascertaining  ttie  general  sense,  but  it  does  not  explain  all  the 
difficult  phrases  which  occur  in  the  original. 

138  The  meaning  of  this  is  that  Praclhana,  as  cause,  possesses  in  its  natur,j  a  variety 
corresponding  to  that  exhibited  by  the  different  kinds  of  objects  which  constitute  the 
visible  creation  ;  whilst  Brahma  is  one  and  uniform.  ,     , 


152  OPINIONS   REGARDING   THE   ORIGIN,   ETC. 

me  multiply,  and  be  propagated.'  '  It  created  light '  (3).  By  these 
words  the  scripture,  having  first  determined  that  the  world,  denoted  by 
the  word  '  this  '  and  now  developed  as  Name  a£d  E,prm,  subsisted  be- 
fore the  creation  in  the  form  of  the  l  Existent,'  then  goes  on  to  shew 
that  this  very  subject  of  the  text,  denoted  by  the  word  '  Existent,' 
became,  after  'beholding,'  the  creator  of 'light  and  other  objects.  And 
accordingly  another  text  (Ait.  Up.  i.  1)  declares  jn  th,e  following  words 
that  the  creation  was  preceded,,  by  '  beholaing  : '  '  T^his  was  in  the  be- 
ginning Soul,  one  only  ;  there  was  nothing  else  which  saw.139.  It  be- 
held, Let  me  create  worlds;  it  created  these  worlds.'  "  After  quoting 
two  other  texts  S'ankara  proceeds  :  "These  and  other  passages  may  also 
be  adduced  which  shew  that  an  omniscient  Isvara  was  the  cause  (of  all 
things).  And  (5)  the  opinion  which  has  been  <  referred  to,  that  Pra- 
dhana will  be  omniscient  in  virtue  of  the  knowledge  which  is  an  attri- 
bute of  Goodness,  is  groundless.  Eor  since  the  three  qualities  are  in  a 
state  of  equilibrium  as  long  as  the  state  of  Pradhana  lasts,  knowledge 
as  an  attribute  of  Goodness  cannot  then  belong  to  it.  And  the  assertion 
(<?)  that  Pradhana  will  be  omniscient  from  possessing  the  power  of 
omniscience  is  equally  untenable.  If  (#)  in  reliance  on  the  power  of 
knowledge  residing  in  Goodness  during  the  state  of  equilibrium,  it  be 
maintained  that  Pradhana  is  then  omniscient,  a  merely  partial  know- 
ledge may  with  equal  reason  be  ascribed  to  it  on  the  strength  of  the 
power  to  obstruct  knowledge  which  resides  in  Passion  and  Darkness 
(the  other  two  qualities  which  constitute  it).  Besides,  no  function  of 
Goodness  can  either  be,  or  be  called,  knowledge,  unless  it  be  accom- 
panied by  the  power  of  observing  (or  witnessing).  'But  Pradhana,  being 
unconscious,  possesses  no  such  power.  Consequently  the  omniscience  of 
Pradhana  is  untenable.  And  the  omniscience  of  Yogins,  (<?)  springing 
from  their  eminence  in  every  attribute,  becomes  possible  inconsequence 
of  their  being  conscious  creatures ;  and  therefore  cannot  be  adduced  as 
an  illustrative  argument  in  the  case  before  us.  If,  again,  you  ascribe  to 
Pradhana  a  power  of  reflection  derived  from  an  obcerver  (like  the  power 
of  burning  possessed  by  iron  balls,  etc.,  which  is  derived  from  fire) 
then  it  will  be  right  to  say  that  the  source  from  which  that  power  of 
reflection  comes  to  Pradhana,  viz.  the  omniscient  Brahma  in  the  proper 
sense,  apd  nothing  else,  is  the  cause  of  the  world.  Once  more,  (e)  it  is 

139  This  is  the  sense  assigned  in  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon  to  the  word  mishat. 
The  commentators  render  it '"  moving  "  (chalet)* 


OF    THE  VEDAS,   HELD  BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  153 

> 

urged  that  omniscience  cannot  in  the  literal  sense  be  properly  attri- 
buted even  to  Brahma  himself,  because  if  the  cognitive  acts  were  con- 
tinual, His  self-cJepen^ence  (or  spontaneity),  in  regard  to  the  act  of 
cognition,  w^uid  be  no  longer  conceivable :  we  reply,  that  we  must  ask 
you  how  the  supposition  that  cognitive  acts  are  continual,  interferes 
with 'the  existence  of  omniscience.  Because  it  is  a  zontradiction  to  say 
that  he  who  possesses  a  perpetual  knowledge  which  can  throw  light 
upon  al^  subjects  *an  b,e  otherwise  than  omniscient.  For  although  on 
the  hypothesis  that  knowledge  is  not  continual,  a  negation  of  omni- 
science would  result,  as  in  that  case  ithe  person  in  question  would  some- 
times know  and  sometimes  not  know, — the  same  objection  does  not 
attach  to  the  supposition  of  a  perpetuity  of  knowledge.  If  you  reply 
that  on  that  supposition,  self-dependence  (or  spontaneity),  in  regard  to 
knowledge  can  no  longer  be  attributed,  we  deny  this,  because  we  ob- 
serve that  spontaneity,  in  regard  to  burning  and  illuminating,  is  attri- 
buted to  the  sun,  although  he  continually  burns  and  shines.  If  you 
again  object  that  this  illustration  does  not  hold  good,  because  the 
power  in  question  is  ascribed  to  the  sun  only  when  his  rays  are  in 
contact  with  the  objects  to  be  burnt  or  illuminated,  whereas  before 
the  creation,  Brahma  has  no  contact  with  the  object  of  knowledge ; — 
we  reply  that  the  parallel  is  -exact,  because  we  observe  that  agency  in 
shining  is  attributed  to  the  sun  even  when  there  is  no  object  [for  his 
beams]  ;  and  in  the  same  way  agency  in  regard  to  'beholding,'  is  justly 
ascribed  to  Brahma,  even  when§  there  is  no  object  of  knowlege.  But 
the  texts  which  record  the  fact  of  '  beholding '  will  be  applicable  to 
Brahma  with  still  greater  propriety  if  that  '  beholding '  have  had  refer- 
ence to  a  positive  object.  What  then  is  the  object  which  is  contem- 
plated by  Brahma  before  the*  creation  ?  'We  reply,  the  undeveloped 
Name  and  1'orm  which  were  not  describable  either  in  their  essence  or 
differences,  and  which  He  wished  to  develope.  For  what  need  we  say 
to  prove  the  perpetual  knowledge,  relating  to  the  creation,  continuance, 
and  destruction  of  ttfe  world,  which  belongs  to  Isv^ra,  the  perpetually 
pure,  from  whose  grace  it  is  that  the  intuitive  knowledge  of  things  past 
and  future,  which  men  learned  in  the  Yoga  doctrine  attribute  to  Yogins, 
is  derived  ?  And  as  regards  the  farther  objection  (/)  that  Brahma,  who 
before  the  creation  was  without  body  or  organs  of  sense,  could  not  be 
conceived  to  'behold,' — that  argument  cannot  be  sustained,  as  from 


154  OPINIONS    REGARDING  THE  ORIGIN,  ETC., 

Brahma's  existence  in  the  form  of  knowledge  being,  like  the  sun's  lustre, 
perpetual,  he  cannot  be  supposed  dependent  upon  any  (bodily  organs 
as)  instruments  of  knowledge."  .  .  .  .  "  Then  a^3  regards  the  assertion 
(#)  that  Pradhana,  from  its  multiformity  of  character  'can((like  earth 
etc.,)  be  readily  conceived  as  the  cause  (of  the  manifold  products  which 
we  see  around  us);  whilst  such  causality  cannot  be  -ascribed  to  the 
simple  and  uniform  Brahma, — that  has  been  answered  by  the  remark 
that  the  existence  of  Pradhana  is  not  established  ly  scripture.     And 
that  the  causality  of  Brahma,  but  not  that  of  Pradhana,  etc.1,  can  be 
established  by  reasoning  will  hereafter  be  shewn  in  the  Sutras,  *  Brah- 
ma, you  say,  cannot  be  the  material  cause  of  this  world,  because  it 
differs  from  him  in  its  nature,'  etc.  (Brahma  Sqtras,  ii.  1,  4ff.).     Here 
the  Sankhyas  remark :  '  As  regards  your  objection  that  the  unconscious 
Pradhana  cannot  be  the  cause  of  the  world,  because  the  Veda  describes 
that  cause  as  '  beholding,'  we  observe  (7i)  that  that  text,  if  otherwise 
explained,  will  be  consistent  with  our  view.     For  we  find  that  even 
unconscious  objects  are  figuratively  spoken  of  as  conscious.     Thus  we 
notice  that  any  one  who  perceives  that  the  bank  of  a  river  is  on  the 
point  of  falling,  speaks  in  a  figurative  way  of  that  unconscious  bank  as 
intending  to  fall.140  In  the  same  way  when  Pradhana  is  on  the  point  of 
creating,  it  can  be  figuratively  said  of  it/although  unconscious,  as  of  a 
conscious  being,  that  it  '  beheld.' 141  Just  as  any  conscious  person,  after 
bathing  and  eating,  resolves  that  on  the  following  day  he  will  proceed 
to  his  village  in  a  car,  and  afterwards  a?ts  according  to  that  plan,  so  too 
Pradhana  (becoming  developed)  in  the  form  of  Mahat  (intellect),  etc., 
acts  according  to  a  law,  and  therefore  is  figuratively  spoken  of  as  con- 
scious..   If  you  ask  us,  why  we  abandon  the  proper  sense  of  '  beholding,' 
and  adopt  a  figurative  one,  we  answer  that  we  do  so  because  we  find  the 
term  figuratively  applied  to  "Water  and  to  Light,  though  unconscious  ob- 
jects, in  the  Yedic  texts,  'The  Light  beheld,' '  the  Waters  beheld'  (Chh. 
Up.  vi.  2,  3f.).  Hence  from  the  fact  tha,t  the  expression  is  for  the  most 


140  E/ulam pipatishati,  litrrally,  "The  bank  wishes  to  fall;"  but,  as  is  well  known, 
a  verb,  or  verbal  noun,  or  adjective,  in  the  desiderative  form,  often  indicates  nothing 
more  than  that  something  is  about  to  happen".     Here,  however,  the  Sankhyas  are 
introduced  as  founding  a  serious  argument  on  this  equivocal  form  of  speech. 

141  See'  Vijniina  Bhikshu's  remarks  on  the  Sankhya  Sutra,  i.  96,  where  the  same 
illustration  is  given. 


>  OP  THE  VEDAS,  HELD  BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  155 

part  figuratively  employed,  we  conclude  that  the  act  of  beholding,'  per- 
formed by  the  '  Existent '  also  Tras  a  figurative  one."  These  objections 
having  been  brought  forward,  the  following  Sutra  is  introduced :  6.  "  If 
you  say  that  the  act  of  '^beholding'  is  figuratively  ascribed  to  Pradhana, 
it  is  not  so,  because  the  word  Soul  also  is  applied  to  the  cause."  (7t)  "The 
assertion  that  the  unconscious  Pradhana  is  designated  by  the  word  '  Ex- 
istent,' and  that  'behblding'  is  figuratively  ascribed  to  it,  as  to  Water  and 
Lightens  incorrect.  Why  ?  Because  the  word  Soul  also  is  employed.  The 
text  which  begins  with  the  words,  _ '  This,  o  fab;  youth,  was  in  the  be- 
ginning Existent,'  and  goes  on  'It  beheld,  it  created  light,'  after  relating 
the  creation  of  Light,  Water,  and  Food,  refers  to  that  'Existent,'  the 
'beholder,'  which  is  the  subject  of  the  text,  and  to  Light,  Water,  and 
Food,  under  the  appellation  of  deities,  thus :  '  This  deity  beheld  (or  re- 
solved), come  let  me  enter  into  these  three  deities  with  this  living  Soul, 
and  make  manifest  Name  and  Form '  (vi.  3,  2).  Here  if  the  unconscious 
Pradhana  were  regarded  as  being,  through  the  function  of  the  quality  (of 
Goodness),  the  '  beholder,'  it  would  from  the  context  be  referred  to  in 
the  phrase  '  that  deity ;'  and  then  the  deity  in  question  could  not  denote 
a  '  living  being '  by  the  term,  '  Soul.'  For  the  principle  of  life  is  both 
according  to  common  usage,  and  interpretation,  the  conscious  ruler  of  the 
body,  and  the  sustainer  of  the  vital  breaths.  How  could  such  a  prin- 
ciple of  life  be  the  Soul  of  the  unconscious  Pradhana  ?  For  Soul  means 
the  essential  nature,  and  a  conscious  principle  of  life  cannot  be  the  es- 
sence of  the  unconscious  Pradnana.  But  in  reality  the  conscious  Brah- 
ma is  understood  in  this  text  as  the  'beholder'  in  the  proper  sense  of  the 
term ;  and  the  word  Soul,  as  relating  to  the  principle  of  life,  is  rightly 
applied  to  Him.  And  thus  in  the  sentence  '  This  entire  universe  is  iden- 
tical with^this  subtile  particle ;  it  is  true;  it  is  Soul :  Thou  art  it,  o  SVe- 
taketu,'  (Chh.  Up.  vi.  8,  6  f.)  the  author  by  employing  the  words  '  it  is 
Soul '  designates  the  subtile  particle,  the  Existent,  which  is  the  subject 
of  the  text,  as  Soul,  by  the  fterm  Soul,  and  so  in  the  words  '  thou  art  it, 
o  S'vetaietu,'  describes  the  conscious  S'vetaketu1  as  being  Soul.  But 
Water  and  Fire  are  unconscious  things,  because  they  are  objects  of 
sense,1"  and  because  it  is  pointed  out  that  they  were  employed  in  the 
manifestation  of  Name  and  Form ;  and  so  there  is  no  reason,  as  in  the 

142  Vishayatvat  =  driff-rtshayatvat,  "from  their  being  objects  of'the  sense  of 
sisrht." — Govinda  Aiuuida. 


156  OPINIONS   REGARDING  THE   ORIGIN,   ETC., 

case  of  Soul,  to  describe  them  as  '  beholders '  in  the  proper  sense  :  that 
term  must  be  applied  to  them  by  a  figure,  as  iu  the  case  of  the  '  river 
bank.'  And  their  act  of  'beholding'  was  depended  on  their  being 

^ 

governed  by  the  '  Existent.'  But,  as  we  have'said,  the  act»of  '  behold- 
ing '  is  not  figurative  in  the  case  of  the  '  Existent,'  because  the  word 
Soul  is  applied  to  ife  But  it  is  now  urged  («'),  that  thecterm  Soul  does 
apply  to  Pradhana,  though  unconscious,  because  ifc'fulfils  all  the  objects 
of  soul;  just  as  it  is  applied  by  a  king  to  his  servant'who  accomplishes 
all  his  designs,  when  he  'feays  '  Bhadrasena  is  my  soul.'  For  Pradhana 
renders  aid  to  a  man's  soul  by  obtaining  for  it  both  celestial  enjoyment, 
and  final  liberation,  as  a  king's  servant  assists  him  by  acting  in  peace 
and  war,  etc.  Or  (j  )  the  one  word  Soul  may  apply  both  to  conscious 
and  unconscious  objects,  as  we  see  it  employed  in  the  phrases  '  soul  of 
the  elements,'  '  soul  of  the  bodily  organs ; '  just  as  the  same  wor(ijyotis 
means  both  sacrifice  and  light.  Why  then,  the  Sankhyas  conclude, 
should  you  infer  from  the  word  '  Soul '  that  the  term  '  beholding '  can- 
not be  figuratively  used  ? 

"  This  is  answered  in  the  7th  Sutra  ('Soul  cannot  denote  Pradhana), 
because  it  is  declared  that  the  man  who  fixes  his  thoughts  upon  it 
obtains  final  emancipation.'  Unconscious  Pradhana  must  not  be  under- 
stood to  derive  any  support  from  the  word  '  Soul ; '  for  after  referring 
in  the  words  'it  is  Soul'  to  the  'Existent,'  the  'very  subtile  thing,' 
which  is  the  subject  of  the  passage,  and  indicating  in  the  words  '  thou 
art  it,  o  S'vetaketu,'  that  the  conscious^"  S'vetaketu,  who  was  about  to 
obtain  emancipation,  was  intent  upon  it,  the  text  above  adduced  de- 
clares his  emancipation  in  the  words  '  the  man  who  has  an  instructor 
knows,  "this  will  only  last  until  I  am  liberated;  I  shall  then  be  per- 
fected." '  (Chh.  Up.  vi.  14,  6)  Por  if  the  unconscious  Pradhana  were 
denoted  by  the  term  'Existent,'  the  words  'thou  art  it/  would  cause 
the  conscious  person,  who  was  seeking  after  emancipation,  to  under- 
stand (of  himself)  '  Thou  art  unconscious  ^'  and  in  that  case  the  S'astra 
which  declared  what' was  contradictory  would  be  unauthoritdive,  be- 
cause injurious  to  the  person  in  question.  But  we  cannot  conceive  a 
faultless  S'astra  to  be  unauthoritative.  And  if  a  S'astra  esteemed  au- 
thoritative should  inform  an  ignorant  seeker  after  emancipation,  that  a 
thing  which  was  not  sou!  was  soul,  he  (the  ignorant  seeker)  would  in 
consequence  oi"  his  faith,  persist  in  regarding  it  as  soul,  as  in  the  case  of 


,  OF  THE   VEDAS,  HELD   BY   INDIAN   AUTHORS.  157 

the  blind  man  and  the  bull's  tail,143  and  would  fail  of  attaining  to  soul 
which  was  quite  different  from  it ;  and  would  in  consequence  lose  the 
object  of  its  efforts,  end  suffer  jnjury.  It  is  therefore  proper  to  con- 
clude that  >>ust  as  the  Yedic  precept,  that  he  who  desires  paradise  should 
perform  the  agnihotra  sacrifice  is  conformable  to  truth,  so,  too,  the  text 
which  says  to  the  man  seeking  after  emancipation,  '  this  is  soul,  thou  art 
that,  o  S'vetakettf,'  declares,  to  him  soul  in  conformity  with  the  reality. 
And  so,-. — as  in  th^case  of  the  man  (changed  with  theft)  who  takes  into  his 
hand  the  red-hot  axe,  and  (in  consequence  of  'the  truth  of  his  protesta- 
tion of  innocence)  is  delivered  (Chh.  Up.  vi.  16,  2), — the  promise  of  final 
emancipation  will  hold  good  in  the  case  of  the  man  whose  thoughts  are 
fixed  on  the  true  Brahma.  .  .  .  Consequently  the  application  of  the  word 
'  soul '  to  the  '  existent  subtile  thing  '  is  not  figurative.  '  Whereas  (»') 
the  use  of  the  same  word  when  applied  to  a  servant  (as  when  it  is  said 
'Bhadrasena  is  my  soul'),  is  shown  to  be  figurative  by  the  manifest 
distinctness  of  a  servant.from  his  master.  And  the  fact  that  a  word  is 
sometimes  observed  to  be  employed  figuratively  does  not  justify  the 
supposition  that  it  is  so  used  in  cases  where  the  (proper)  sense  is  estab- 
lished by  the  words ;  because  that  would  give  rise  to  doubt  in  every 
instance.  Again,  (j)  it  is  incorrect  to  say  that  the  word  soul  is  common  to 
things  conscious  and  unconscious,  (as  the  term  jyotis  means  both  sacri- 
fice and  flame),  because  the  assertion  that  it  has  a  variety  of  significa- 

113  The  story  or  fable  here  alluded^  to  is  told  at  length  by  Ananda  Giri,  and  more 
briefly  by  Govinda  Ananda  as  follows :  Kaschit  kila  dushtatma  maharanya-marge 
patitam  andhaih  sva-bqndhu-nagaraih  jigamishum  babhashe  "  kim  attra  uyushmata 
duhkhitena  sthiyate "  iti  \  sa  cha  andhah  sukha-van>m  akarnya  tarn  Tiptam  matva 
uvacha  "  aho  mad-bhagadheyam  yad  attra  bhavan  mam  dtnam  svabhishta-nagara- 
prapty-asamartham  bhashate"  iti  \  sa  cha  vipr^lipsur  dushta-go-yuvTmam  anlya  to,- 
diya-langulaqn  andhaih  grahayumasa  upadidesa  cha  enam  andham  ^  esha  go-yuva 
tvam  nagaram  neshyati  ma  tyaja  langulam"  iti  sa  cha  andhah  sraddhalutaya  tad 
atyajan  svabhfshtam  aprapya  anartha-paramparam  praptas  tena  nyayena  ity  arthah  \ 
"  A  certain  malicious  person  said  to  a  blind  man  who  was  lying  on  the  road  through 
a  forest,  and  wishing  to  proceed  tcTthe  city  of  his  friends,  '  Why,  distressed  old  man, 
do  you  stay  here  ? '  Tl?e  blind  nifin  hearing  the  agreeable  ^voice  of  the  speaker,  and 
regarding  him  as  trustworthy,  replied :  '  < )  how  great  is  my  good  fortune  that  you 
have  iiccosted  me  who  am  helpless,  and  unable  to  gi?  to  the  city  which  I  desire  to 
reach!'  The  other,  wishing  to  deceive  him,  brought  a  vicious  young  bull,  and  made 
the  blind  man  lay  hold  of  his  tail,  and  told  him  that  the  young  bull  would  conduct 
him  to  the  city,  enjoining  him  not  to  let  go  the  tail.,  Trusting  to  the  speaker,  the 
blind  kept  his  hold,  but  did  not  attain  the  object  of  his  desire,  and  encountered  a 
series  of  mishaps ; — such  is  the  illustration."  ^ 


158  OPINIONS  REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

tions  is  unreasonable.  Hence  the  word  soul,  which  properly  refers  to  con- 
scious things,  is  applied  to  the  elements,  etc.,  by  a  figurative  ascription  to 
them  of  consciousness,  as  when  we  say,  '  the  sovil  ofHhe  elements,'  or 
'  the  soul  of  the  bodily  organs.'  And  even  if  it  were  admitted  that  the 
word  soul  was  common  to  different  things,  it  could  not  be  ascertained 
whether  it  had  reference  to  one  thing  or  another  unles^  the  context  or 
some  auxiliary  word  determined  the  point.  <  But'  in  the  case  before  us 
there  is  nothing  to  determine  that  it  denotes  anything  unconscious ;  on 
the  contrary,  the  subject  *bf  the  sentence  is  the  '  Existent,  the  beholder,' 
and  in  immediate  connection  with  it  is  the  conscious  S'vetaketu  ;  for  as 
we  have  already  said  an  unconscious  thing  cannot  be  conceived  as  the 
soul  of  the  conscious  S'vetaketu.  Thus  it  is«  settled  that  the  word 
'  soul '  refers  to  a  conscious  being,"  etc. 

In  the  fourth  section  (  pdda)  of  the  1st  Book,  the  author  of  the  Sutras 
returns  to  his  controversy  with  the  Sankhyas,  and  S'ankara,  after  allud- 
ing to  the  aphorisms  in  which  they  had  previously  been  combated,  pro- 
ceeds as  follows  (p.  334) : 

Idam  tv  iddriim  avasishtam  dsankyate  \  yad  uktam  pradhdnasya  asab- 
datvarn  tad  asiddham  Jcdsuchit  sdkhdsu  pradhdna-samarpandlhdsdndm 
sabddnam  sruyamdnatvdt  \  atah  pradhdnasya  kdranatvam  veda-prasid. 
dham  eta  mahadbhih  paramarshibhih  Kapilddilhih  parigrihltam  iti  pra- 
sajyate  \  tad  ydvat  teshdm  sabddnam  anya-paratvafh  na  pratipddyate 
tdvat  sarvajnam  Brahma  jagatah  kdranam  iti  pratipdditam  apy  dkull- 
Ihavet  |  atas  teshdm  anya-paratvam  daHayitum  parah  sandarlhah  pra- 
varttate  \  "  dnumdnikam  api"  (Br.  Sutra  i.  4,  1)  anumdna-nirupitam 
api pradhdnam  " eJceshdm"  sdkhindm  saldavad  upalalhyate  \  Kdthake  hi 
pathyate  "  mahatalf  param  avyaktam  avyaktdt  purushah  parah1'  iti  \ 
tattra  ye  eva  yan-ndmdno  yat-kramakds  cha  mahad-avyatya-purushdh 
smriti-prasiddhds  te  eva  iha  pratyalhijndyante  \  tattra  "  avyaktam  "  iti 
smriti-prasiddheh  saldddi-hmatvdch  cha  na  vyaktam  avyaktam  iti  vyut- 
patti-samlhavdt  smriti-prasiddham  pradhanam  abhidhlyate  \  atas  tasya 
sabdavattvdd  asabdat'am  anupapannam  M*  |  tad  eva  cha  jagatah  kdranam 
iruti-smriti-prasiddhilhgah  iti  chet  \  na  etad  evam  \  na  hy  etat  Kdthaka- 
vdkyam  smriti-prasiddhayor  mahad-avyaktayor  astitva-param  \  na  hy  attra 

yddrisam  smriti-prasiddham  svatantraih  kdranam  trigunam  pradhdnam 

c> 

14  The  text  eiven  in  the  Bibl.  Indica  has  upapannam,  but  I  follow  the  old  edition 
in  Bengali  characters  in  reading  anupapannam,  which  seems  required  by  the  sense. 


OP    THE    VEDAS,    HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  159 

tddrisam  pratyabhijndyate  \  sabda-mdttram  hy  attra  avyaktam  iti  pra- 
tyabhijndyate \   sa  cha  sabdo  na  vyaldam  avyaktam  iti  yaugikatvdd  an- 
yasminn   api  sutishme-  durlakshye  cha  prayujyate  na    cha   ay  am   kas- 
minschid  r&dhah   \  yd   $u  pradhdna  -  vddindm  rudhih  sa   teshdm   eva 
pdribhdshikl  sail  na  veddrtha-nirupane  Tcdrana-bhdvam  pratipadyate  \ 
na  cha  krama-mdttra-sdmarthydt  samdndrtha-prattpattir  bhavaty  asati 
tad-rupa-pratyafohijn,dne  L,  na  hy  asva-sthdne  gam  pasyann  asvo  'yam 
ity  amv-dho  'dhya'fazsyati  \  prakarana-rtirupandydm  cha  attra  na  para- 
parikalpitam  pradhdnam  pratlyate  sarira  -  rupaka  -  vinyasta  -  grihiteh  \ 
sarlram  hy  attra  ratha-riipaka-vinyastam  avyakta-saldena,  parigrihyate  \ 
Tcutah  |  prakarandt  pariseshdch  cha  \   tathd  hy  anantardtlto  granthah 
dtma-ianrddlndm  ratki-rathddi-rupalta-klriptim   darsayati  \  (Katha 
TJpanishad,  i.  3,  3  f.)  '*'  dtmdnam  rathinam  viddhi  Sarlram  ratham  eva 
cha  |  buddhim  cha  sdrathim  viddhi  manah  pragraham  eva  cha  \  4.  Indri- 
ydni  haydn  dhur  vishaydms  teshu  gochardn  \  dtmendriya-mano-yuktam 
bhoktety  'dhur  manlshinah  "  |  tais  chaindriyddilhir  asamyataih  samsdram 
adhigachchhati  \   samyatais  tv  adhvanah  pdram  tad  Vishnoh  paramam 
padam  dpnoti  iti  darsayitvd  kim  tad  adhvanah  pdram  Vishnoh  paramam 
padam  ity  asya  dkdnkshdydm  telhyah  eva  prakritebhyah  indriyddibhyah 
paratvena  paramdtmdnam  adhvanah  pdram  tad  Vishnoh  paramam  padam 
darsayati  \  Katha  Up.  i.  3,  10  f.)  "  indriyebhyah  pardh  hy  arthdh  arthe- 
bhyas  cha  param  manah  \  manasas  tu  para  buddhir  buddher  dtmd  mahdn 
parah  |  11.  Mahatah  param  avyaktam  avyaktdt  purushah  parah*\  puru- 
shdd  na  param  kinchit  sd  kdshtM  sa  pard  gatir"  iti  |  .  .  .  .   "  Buddher 
dtmd  mahdn  parah"  yah_  sa  "dtmdnam  rathinam  viddhi"  iti  rathitvena 
upakshiptah  \  kutah  \  dtma-£abddd  bhoktus  cha  bhogopakarandt  paratvopa- 
patteh  |  mahattvam  cha  asya  svdmitvdd  upapannam  \  ....  yd  pratha- 
majasya  Hiranyagarbhasya  buddhih  sd  sarvdsdm  buddhlndm  paramd  pra- 
tishthd  sd  iha  "mahdn  dtmd"  ity  uchyate  \  sd  cha  purvattra  buddhi- 
grahanena  eva  grihltd  satl  hirug  iha  upadisyate  tasydh  apy  asmadlyd- 
bhyo  buddhibhyah  paratvoupapatteh  |  .  .  .  .  tad  evam  sarlram  eva  ekam 
parisishyrfe  \  teshu  u"  itardni  indriyddlni  prakritfciy  eva  parama-pada- 
didarsatjishayd  samanukrdman  parisishyamdnenn  iha  anena  avyakta-sab- 
dena  parisishyamdnam  prakritam  sarlram  darsayati  iti  gamy  ate  |  .  .  .  . 
tad  evam  purvdpardlochandydm  nasty  attra  para-pankalpitasya  pradhd- 
nasya  avakdsah  \   2.  "Stifoham  tu  tad-arhatvdf  "  \  uktam  etat  ptakarana- 
145  The  earlier  edition  above  referred  to  omits  teshu. 


160  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,  ETC., 

pariseshdbhydm  sarlram  avyakta  -  sabdam  na  pradhdnam  iti  \  idam 
iddnlm  dsankyate  katham  avyaJcta  -  sabdurhatvaih  sarlrasya  ydvatd  sthu- 
latvdt  spashtataram  idam  sarlram  vyakta-salddrjiam'-aspashtarvachanas 
tv  avyakta  -  sabdah  iti  \  atah  uttaram  uchyat6  \  suksham  iff  ilia  kdra- 
ndtmand  sarlram  vivakshyate  sukshmasya  avyakta -salctdrhatvdt  \  yady- 
api  sthulam  idam  Sarlram  na  svayam  avyakta-sahdanl  arhati  tathdpi 
tasya  tv  drambhakam  bhuta - suksham  avyakta- sabdam  arhati  j1".  .  .  . 
attra  alia  yadi  jagad  idam  hnalhivyakta  -  najna  -<  upam  vljatmakam 
prdg  -  avastham  avyakta^-  sabddrham  alhyupagamyeta  tad-dtmUnd  cha 
sarlrasydpy  avyakta-sabddrhatvam  pratijndyeta  sa  eva  tarlii  pradhdna- 
kdrana-vddah  evam  saty  dpadyeta  asya  eva  jagatah  prdg -avasthdydh 
pradhdnalvena  abhyupagamdd  iti  \  attra  uchyate,\  yadi  vayam  svatantrdm 
ktinchit  prdg-avasthdm  jagatah  kdranatvena  abhy'upagachchema  prasanja- 
yema  tadd  pradhdna-kdrana-vddam  \  Parmesvarddhlnd  tv  iyam  asmu- 
bhih  prdg-avasthd  jagato  'bhyupagamyate  na  svatantrd  \  sd  cha  avasyam 
alhyupagantavyd  \  arthavatl  hi  sd  \  na  hi  tayd  vind  Paramesvarasya 
srashtritvam  siddhyati  sakti-rahitasya  tasya  pravritty-anupapatteh  muk- 
tdndm  cha  punar-utpattir  vidyayd  tasydh  mja-sakter  ddhdt  \  avidydtmikd 
hi  sd  vlja-saktir  avyakta  -  sabda-nirdesyd  Paramesvardsrayd  mdydmayl 
mahdsushuptir  yasydm  svarupa  -  pratibodha  -  rahitdh  serate  samsarmo 
jlvdh  |  tad  etad  avyaktarn  kvachid  dkdsa-salda-nirdishtam  \  "  etasmin 
nu  khalv  akshare  Gdrgi  dkdsah  otas  cha  protas  cha  "  iti  sruteh  \  kvachid 
akshar%-saldoditam  "  dkshardt  paratah  parah  "  iti  sruteh  \  kvachid  rndyd 
iti  suchitam  "mdydm  tu prakritim* vidyHd  mdyinam  tu  mahescaram"  iti 
mantra-varndt  \  acyaktd  hi  sd  mdyd  tattvdnyatva-nirupanasya  asakyat- 
vdt  |  tad  idam  "  mahatah  param  avyaktam"  ity  uktam  avyakta-prabha- 
vatvdd  mahato  yadd  Hairanyagarbhl  buddhir  malidn  \  yadd  tu  jlvo  ma- 
hdms  tadd  'py  avyaktddhlnatvdj  jlva-bhdvasya  mahatah  param  avyaktam 
ity  uktam  \  atidyd  hy  avyaktam  avidydvattve  cha  jlvasya  sarvah  sam- 
vyavahdrah  santato  varttate  \  tach  cha  avyakta-gatam  mahatah  paratvam 
alhedopachdrdt  tad-vikdre  sarlre  parikal/yate  \ 

"  But  now  this  d/oubt  still  remains.  The  assertion  that  ttye  existence 
of  Pradhana  is  not  supported  by  the  Veda  is,  say  the  Sankhyas,  desti- 
tute of  proof,  as  certain  Vt-dic  S'akhas  contain  passages  which  have  the 
appearance  of  affirming  Pradhana.  Consequently  the  causality  of  Pra- 
dhana has  been  received'  by  Kapila  and  other  great  rishis  on  the  ground 
that  it  is  established  by  the  Veda;  and  this  is  an  objection  to  the  state- 


OF    THE  VEDAS,   HELD    BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  161 

ment  which  you  make  to  the  contrary.  Until,  therefore,  it  be  estab- 
lished that  these  passages  have. a  different  object,  the  doctrine  that  an 
omniscient  Brahma  is,  the  cause,  of  the  world,  even  though  it  has  been 
proved,  will  be  again  unsettled  ;  and  consequently  you  bring  forward  a 
great  array  of  arguments  to  shew  that  these  texts  apply  to  something 
else.  In  the  words  '  it  may  be  deduced  also,'  i.e.  it  is  determined  by 
inference, — it  is  shewn  that  in  the  opinion  of  certain  schools  the  doc- 
trine of  Pradhantt-ns  scriptural,  for  in  the  Katha  Upanishad  (i.  3,  11)  we 
read  th'e  words  '  Above  the  Great  one  is  Avyakta  (£tie  Unmanifested  one), 
and  above  the  Unmanifested  one  is  Purusha  (Soul).'  Here  we  recognize 
'  the  Great  one,'  '  the  Unmanifested  one,'  and  Purusha,  with  the  same 
names  and  in  the  saiae  order  in  which  they  are  known  to  occur  in 
the  Smriti  (i.e.  the  system  of  Kapila).  Here  that  which  is  called  Pra- 
dhana in  the  Smriti  is  denoted  by  the  word  '  the  Unmanifested  one,'  as 
we  learn  both  from  its  being  so  called  in  the  Smriti,  and  from  the  epi- 
thet '  Unmanifested '  (which  is  derived  from  the  words  '  not '  and  '  ma- 
nifested') being  properly  applicable  to  it  in  consequence  of  its  being 
devoid  of  sound,  and  the  other  objects  of  sense  :  wherefore,  from  its  hav- 
ing this  Vedic  authority  to  support  it,  its  (i.e.  Pradhana's)  unscriptural 
character  is  refuted ;  and  it  is  proved  both  by  the  Yeda,  the  Smriti, 
and  common  notoriety  to  be  the  cause  of  the  world.  If  the  Sankhyas 
argue  thus,  we  reply  that  the  case  is  not  so  j  for  this  text  of  the  Katha 
Upanishad  does  not  refer  to  the  existence  of  the  '  Great  one '  and  the 
'Unmanifested  one,'  which  are  defined  in  the  Smriti  (of  Kapila) ;  for  here 
we  do  not  recognize  such  a  self-dependent  cause,  viz.  Pradhana,  composed 
of  the  three  qualities,  as  is  declared  in  that  Smriti,  but  the  mere  epithet 
'unmanifested.'  And  this  word  '  Unmanifested, '  owing  to  its  sense  as 
a  derivative  from  the  words  'not'  and  'manifested,'  is  also  applied  to 
anything  else  which  is  subtile  or  indistinguishable^  and  has  not  pro- 
perly a  conventional  meaning  in  reference  to  any  particular  thing. 
As  for  the  conventional  use  which  the  assertors  of  Pradhana  make  of  it, 
that  is  a,  technical  "application  peculiar  to  themselves,  and  does  not 
afford  any  means  for  determining  the  sense  of  4,he  Vedas.  Nor  does  the 
mere  identity  of  the  order  (of  the  three  words)  furnish  any  proof  of 
identity  of  meaning  unless  we  can  recognise  the  essential  character 
of  the  things  to  be  the  same.  For  no  man  but  a  fool,  i?  he  saw 
a  cow  in  the  place  where  he  expected  to  sep  a  horse,  would  falsely 

11 


162  OPINIONS  REGARDING  THE  ORIGIN,  ETC., 

ascribe  to  it  the  character  of  a  horse.  And  if  we  determine  the  sense 
of  the  context,  it  will  be  found  that  ,the  Pradhana  imagined  by  our 
opponents  finds  no  place  here,  since  ji  is  the  Vbody  '  which  is  indi- 
cated in  the  preceding  simile.  For  here  the  body  as  represented  under 
the  figure  of  a  chariot,  etc.,  is  to  be  understood  by  the  word  '  the 
Unmanifested.'  "Wiiy?  From  the  context  and  the  remainder  of  the 
sentence.  For  the  context  which  immediately  precedes  sets  forth  the 
soul,  the  body,  etc.,  under  the  figure  of  a  ri^er,  a  chariot,  etc.,  as 
follows :  '  Know  that  the  soul  is  the  rider,  the  body  the  chariot,  the 
intellect  the  charioteer,  and  the  mind  the  reins.  The  senses  are  called 
the  horses,  and  the  objects  of  sense  the  roads  on  which  they  go.  The 
soul  accompanied  by  the  senses  and  the  mind  is«  the  enjoyer ;  U6  so  say 
the  wise.'  After  pointing  out  (in  the  following  verses)  that  with  these 
senses,  etc.,  if  uncontrouled,  the  soul  gains  only  this  world,  but  if  they 
are  kept  under  controul,  it  attains  to  the  highest  state  of  Vishnu, 
which  is  the  end  of  its  road ;  the  author  (in  answer  to  the  question 
'  "What  is  that  highest  state  of  Vishnu  which  is  the  end  of  the  road?') 
shews  in  the  following  verses  that  it  is  the  supreme  Spirit  who 
transcends  the  senses,  etc.  (which  form  the  subject  of  the  context), 
who  is  alluded  to  as  the  goal,  and  the  highest  state  of  Vishnu: 
'The  objects  of  sense  are  higher  than  the  senses;  the  mind  is 
higher  than  the  objects  of  sense ;  the  intellect  is  higher  than  the 
mind ;  the  Great  soul  is  higher  than  the  intellect ;  the  Unmanifested 
one  is  higher  than  the  Great  soul;  tne  spirit  (Purusha)  is  greater 
than  the  Unmanifested:  there  is  nothing  higher  than  Spirit,  that 
is  the  end,  that  is  the  highest  goal.' "  After  observing  that  the 
various  terms  in  these  lines  are  the  same  which  had  been  previously 
introduced  in  the  simile  of  the  chariot,  charioteer,  rider,  horses,  etc., 
S'ankara  assigns  the  reason  of  the  superiority  attributed  to  each  suc- 
ceeding object  over  that  which  precedes  it,  and  then  goes  on  to  say  in 
regard  to  intellect  and  soul :  "  '  The  Great  soul  is  higher  than  the  in- 
tellect,' that  soul,  namely,  which  is  figuratively  described  as  a  rider,  in 
the  words  '  Know  the  coul  to  be  the  -rider.'  -  But  why  is  the  Soul 

146  The  words  of  the  original,  both  as  given  -here  and  in  the  text  of  the  Katha 
Upanishad  are  atmendriya-mano-yuktam  bhokta,  which  are  not  very  clear.  The 
commeutaftrs  understand  atnu.n  at  the  beginning  of  the  compound  as  denoting  body, 
and  supply  atmnnam  as  the  subject.  See  Dr.  Roer's  translation  of  the  Upanishads 
(Bibl.  Ind.  p.  107). 


OF  THE  VEDAS,  HELD  BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  163 

superior  to  the  intellect?  Both  from  the  use  of  the  word  Soul  and 
because  it  aids  the  enjoyment  of  the  enjoyer,  it  is  shewn  to  be  superior. 
Its  character  as  tie  Great  soul  is  Droved  by  its  being  the  master.  .  .  The 
intellect  of  »Hiranyagarb/ia,  the  first-born,  is  the  highest  basis  of  all 
intellect ;  and  it  is  that  which  is  here  called  the  '  Great  soul.'  It  had 
been  previously 'comprehended  under  the  word  'intellect,'  but  is  here 

separately  specified,  because  it  also  is  superior  to  our  intellects 

Thus  the  body  al&oe  remains  of  the  objects  referred  to  in  the  passage. 
After  going  over  all  the  others  in  order,  with 'the  view  of  pointing  out 

•  » 

the  highest  state  to  be  attained,  he  indicates  by  the  one  remaining 
word,  the  'Unapparent/  the  one  remaining  subject  of  the  text,  viz.  the 
body — such  is  our  conclusion.  .  .  .  Hence  after  examining  both  the 
earlier  and  later  portions  of  the  passage,  we  find  that  there  is  no 
place  for  the  Pradhana  imagined  by  our  opponents."  Going  on  to  in- 
terpret the  next  aphorism  (i.  4,  2)  '  But  the  subtile  body  may  also  be 
properly  called  '  unmanifested, '  S'ankara  begins : 

"  We  have  declared  that,  looking  to  the  context  and  the  only  word 
which  remained  to  be  explained,  the  body,  and  not  Pradhana,  is  denoted 
by  the  word  the  '  TJnapparent.'  But  here  a  doubt  arises  :  '  How  can 
the  body  be  properly  designated  by  the  word  'unapparent,'  inasmuch 
as  from  its  grossness  it  is  very  distinctly  perceptible,  and  therefore 
should  rather  be  denoted  by  the  word  '  apparent,'  while  the  word  '  un- 
apparent'  signifies  something  that  is  not  perceptible?  "We  answer: 
In  this  passage  the  subtile  body  in  its  character  of  cause  is  intended, 
since  what  is  subtile  is  properly  designated  by  the  term  '  unapparent.' 
Although  this  gross  body  itself  cannot  properly  be  described  by  the 
word  '  Unapparent,'  still  this  term  applies  to  the  subtile  element  which 
is  its  originator"  ....  S'ankara  begins  his  interpretation  of  the  next 
aphorism  (i.  4,  3)  as  follows:  "Here  the  Sankhyas  rejoin:  'If  you 
admit  that  this  world  in  its  primordial  condition,  before  its  name  and 
form  had  been  manifested,  and  while  it  existed  in  its  rudimentary 
form,  coi\ld  be  properly  designated  by  the  word  J  Unapparent,'  and  if 
the  same  term  be  declared  applicable  to  body  also  while  continuing  in 
that  state,  then  your  explanation  will  exactly  coincide  with  our  doc- 
trine of  Pradhana  as  the  cause  of  all  things ;  since  you  will  virtually 
acknowledge  that  the  original  condition  of  this  world  was  that  of  Pra- 
dhana. To  this  we  reply :  If  we  admitted  any  self-dependent  original 


164  OPINIONS  REGARDING  THE  ORIGIN,   ETC., 

condition  as  the  cause  of  the  world,  we  should  then  lay  ourselves  open 
to  the  charge  of  admitting  that  Pradhana  is  the  cause.  But  we  con- 
sider that  this  primordial  state  of  the  world  i^  dependent  upon  the 
supreme  Deity  (Paramesvara)  and  not  self-dependent.  "  An.d  this  state 
to  which  we  refer  must  of  necessity  be  assumed,  as  it  is  essential. 
For  without  it  the  ..creative  action  of  the  supreme  Deity  could  not  be 
accomplished,  since,  if  he  were  destitute  of  hie  S'&kti  (power),  any 
activity  on  his  part  would  be  'inconceivable.  r  And*  30,  too,  thpse  who 
have  been  emancipated  from  birth  are  not  born  again,  because  this  ger- 
minative  power  (on  the  destruction, — which  implies  the  previous 
existence, — of  which  emancipation  depends)  is  consumed  by  know- 
ledge.147 For  that  germinative  power,  of  which  the  essence  is 
ignorance,  and  which  is  denoted  by  the  word  ''Unapparent,'  has  its 
centre  in  the  supreme  Deity,  and  is  a  great  illusive  sleep,  during 
which  mundane  souls  repose  unconscious  of  their  own  true  nature. 
This  'Unapparent  one'  is  in  some  places  indicated  by  the  term 
aether  (dkasa},  as  in  the  text  (Brih.  Ar.  Up.  iii.  8,  11)  'On  this 
undecaying  Being,  o  Gargi,  the  aether  is  woven  as  warp  and  woof;'  in 
other  places  by  the  word  'undecaying'  (akshara),  as  in  the  text, 
'  Beyond  the  Undecaying  is  the  Highest ; '  and  is  elsewhere  desig- 
nated by  the  term  'illusion'  (mdyd)  as  in  the  line  (SVetasv.  Up.  4,  10) 
'  Know  that  Prakriti  (or  matter)  is  illusion,  and  the  great  Deity  the 
possessor  of  illusion.'  For  this  'illusion'  is  'unapparent,'  because  it 
cannot  be  denned  in  its  essence  and  difference.  This  is  the  '  Unap- 
parent' which  is  described  as  above  the  '  Great  one,'  since  the  latter, 
when  regarded  as  identical  with  the  intellect  of  Hiranyagarbha,  springs 
from  the  former.  And  even  if  the  '  Great  one'  be  identified  with  the 
embodied  soul  (jiva],  the  'Unapparent'  can  be  said  to  be  above  it,  as 
the  condition  of  the  embodied  soul  is  dependent  upon  the  'Unapparent.' 
For  the  '  Unapparent '  is  ignorance,  and  it  is  during  its  condition  of 

ignorance  that  the  entire  mundane  actitn  of  the  embodied  soul  is  car- 

(• 

_  a  f 

147  Govinda  Auanda  explains  this  clause  as  follows :  Bandha-mukti-vyavasthartham 
api  *a  svlkaryya  ity  aha  "muktcinam"  iti  \  yan-nasad  muktih  sa  svikaryya  tamvina 
eva  srishtau  muktanam  punar  bandhapattir  ity  prthah  \  "  In  the  words  '  Those  who 
had  been  emancipated,'  etc.,  he  tells  us  that  this  ignorance  must  be  admitted,  in  order 
to  secure  the  permanence  of  emancipation  from  the  bondage  (of  birth) :  that  is,  that 
ignorance  foy  the  destruction  of  which  emancipation  is  obtained  must  be  admitted ;  as 
without  it  those  who  had  been  emancipated  would  at  the  creation  be  again  involved 
in  bondage,"  [because  to  be  released  at  all,  they  must  be  released  from  something]. 


OF    THE   VEDAS,   HELD  BY  INDIAN   AUTHORS.  165 

ried  on.  And  that  superiority  of  the  '  Unapparent '  over  the  '  Great 
one '  is  by  a  figurative  description  of  body  as  identical  with  the  former 
attributed  to  body  also/' 

By  these  Subtle  and  elaborate  explanations  S'ankara  scarcely  appears 
to  make  out  his  point.  Butt,!  cannot  follow  further  the  discussion  of 
this  question,  and  now  go  on  to  the  eighth  aphorism  (i.  4,  8)  where  the 
purport  of  another  Vecfic  test  is  investigated  : 

" Ckanlasa-vad  aviseshtft"  \  punar  api  pradhdna-vddl  aSabdatvam  pra- 
dhdnasya  asiddham  ity  aha,  \  kasmdi  \  mantra-vurndt  \  (S'vetasvatara 
Upanishad,  iv.  5)  "  a/dm  ekdm  lohita-sukla-krishndm  lahvlh  prajdh  sri- 
jamdndm  svarupdh  I48  |  ajo  Jiy  eko  jmhamdno  '  nusete  jahdty  endm  thuJcta- 
Ihogdm  ajo'nyah"  iti  J  attra  hi  mantre  lohita-sukla-krishna-sabdaih 
rajah-sattva-tamdmsy  abhidhiyante  \  lohitam  rajo  ranjandtmakatvdt  suk- 
lam  sattvam  prakdsdtmakatvdt  krishnam  tamah  dvarandtmaltatvdt  \  teshdm 
sdmydvasthdvayava-dharmair  vyapadisyate  lohita- sukla-hrishnd  iti  \  na 
jdyate  iti  cha  "ajd"  sydd"mula-pralcritir  avikritir"  ity  alhyupagamdt  \ 
nanv  ajd-saldas  chhdgdydm  rudhah  \  vddham  \  sd  tu  rudhir  iha  na  dsra- 
yitum  sakyd  vidyd-prakarandt  \  sd  cha  lahvlh  prajds  traigunydnvitdh 
janayati  ....  tasmdt  sruti-muld  eva  pradhdnddi-kalpand  Kdpildndm 
ity  evam  prdpte  brumah  \  na  anena  mantrena  sruti-mulatvam  Sdnkhya- 
vddasya  sakyam  dsrayitum  \  na  hy  ay  am  mantrah  svdtantryena  kanchid 
api  vddam  samarthayitum  utsahate  \  sarvatrdpi  yayd  kaydchit  kalpanayd 
ajdtvddi-sampddanopapatteh  Sdnkhya-vddah  eva  iha  alhipretah  iti  vise- 
shdvadhdrana-kdrandbhdvdt  \  "  chamasa-vat"  \ 

"  'Because,  as  in  the  case  of  the  spoon,  there  is  nothing  distinctive.' 
The  assertor  of  Pradhana  again  declares  that  Pradhana  is  not  proved  to 
be  unscriptural.  Why  ?  From  the  following  verse  (SV.  Tip.  iv.  5) : 
'  One  unborn  male,  loving  the  unborn  female  of  a  red,  white,  and 
black  colour,  who  forms  many  creatures  possessing  her  own  character, 
unites  himself  with  her :  another  unborn  male  abandons  her  after  he 
has  enjoyed  her.'  F^r  in  this  verse  the  words  '  red,'  '  white,'  and 
'  black,'  denote  (the  three  Qualities)  Passion,  Goodness,  and  Darkness ; 
— Passion,  from  its  stimulating  character,  being  designated  by  the  term 

148  The  text  of  Dr.  Roer's  ed.  of  •  the  Upanishad  (Bibl.  Ind.  vol.  vii.)  has  two 
various  readings  in  this  line,  viz.  lohita-krishna-varnaw  for  lohita-s'ukla-^rishnam 
(which  latter,  however,  is  the  reading  referred  to  by  S'ankara  in  his  commentary  on 
that  work),  and  sarupam  for  svarupah,  > 


166  OPINIONS   REGARDING   THE   ORIGIN,  ETC., 

'  red,'  Goodness,  from  its  illuminating  character,  by  '  white,'  and  Dark- 
ness, from  its  enveloping  character,  by  '  black.'  The  unborn  female  is 
described  as  red,  white,  and  black,  with  reference  to  the  characteristics 
of  the  three  components  which  make  up  the  state  of  equiKbium.  She 
must  be  called  '  unborn '  (Ajd],  because  she  is  not  produced,  since  it  is 
admitted  that '  original  matter '.  (Mula-Prakriti  =  Pradhana)  is  not  a 
modification  (of  any  other  substance — SanJ'hya  Kariua,  verse  3).  But 
is  not  ajd  the  conventional  name  for  '  she-  goat  ?*  True  (reply  the 
Sankyas),  but  that  conventional  sense  cannot  be  adopted  here,  because 
knowledge  is  the  subject  of  the  context.  And  this  unborn  female  pro- 
duces many  creatures  characterized  by  the  three  Qualities  ....  And 
from  this  it  is  concluded  that  the  theory  of"Kapila's  followers  re- 
garding Pradhana,  etc.,  is  based  upon  the  Veda.  ~We  reply :  that  it 
cannot  be  admitted  on  the  strength  of  this  verse  that  the  theory  of 
the  Sankhyas  is  founded  on  the  Yeda.  For  the  verse  in  question,  if 
regarded  independently,  is  powerless  to  sustain  any  hypothesis  what- 
ever ;  and  the  reason  is  that,  as  this  description  of  the  state  of  the  un- 
born female  may  be  rendered  applicable  on  any  hypothesis  whatever, 
there  is  no  ground  for  determining  specifically  that  the  Sankhya  theory 
is  here  intended — '  as  in  the  case  of  the  spoon.'  "  This  aphorism  refers 
to  a  verse  quoted  in  the  Brihad  Aranyaka  TJpanishad,  ii.  2,  3  (Bibl.  Ind. 
p.  413  of  the  Sanskrit,  and  p.  174  of  Dr.  Roer's  translation),  and  be- 
ginning '  a  cup  with  its  mouth  down,  and  its  bottom  upwards,'  which, 
as  S'ankara  remarks,  cannot,  without  sonae  further  indication,  be  applied 
to  any  one  cup  in  particular ;  and  in  the  same  wav,  he  argues,  the  un- 
born female  in  the  passage  under  discussion  cannot,  in  the  absence  of 
anything  to  restrict  the  application  in  any  special  way  be  understood 
as  denoting  Pradhana  (evam  ihdpy  avisesho  'jam  ekdm  it\i  asya  man- 
trasya  |  na  asmin  mantre  Pradhanam  eva  ajd  'bhipreta  iti  sakyate  niyan- 
tum).  The  question  then  arises  what  is  meant  by  this  '  unborn  female.' 
To  this  the  author  of  the  aphorisms  and?  S'ankara  reply,  that  the  word 
denotes  the  material  substance  of  a  four-fold  class  of  elements,  viz. 
light,  heat,  water,  and  food,  all  derived  from  the  supreme  Deity  (Para- 
mesvarad  utpannd  jyotih-pramukha  tejo,'b-anna-lakshand  chatur-vidha- 
bhuta-grumasya  pralcfiti-bhuta  iyam  ajd  pratipattavya).  These  four  ele- 
ments hfe  however  seems'  (p.  357)  to  identify  with  three,  in  the  words : 
thuta-traya-lakshand  eva  iyam  ajd  vijneya  na  guna-traya-Iahhand  \  '  This 


>  OF    THE    VEDAS,  HELD    BY  INDIAN    AUTHORS.  167 

unborn  female  is  formed  by  three  elements,  not  by  the  three  quali- 
ties ; '  and  the  ascription  of  tlie  three  colours  in  the  text  to  these 
three  elements  (is  supported  by  a  quotation  from  the  Chhandogya  Upa- 
nishad,  vi.  '4,  1,  which  is  as  follows:  Yad  agneh  rohitam  rupam  tejasas 
tad  rftpam  yat  jiuklam  tad  apjdm  yat  krishnam  tad  annasya  \  "The  red 
colour  (  of  fire  is  that  of  heat ;  its  whits  colour  is  that  of  water ;  and  its 
black  colour  is  that  of  fooi  (which  here  means  earth,  according  to  the 
commentator  on  the  Chhandogya  Upanishad).149  In  this  way,  he  adds, 
the  words  denoting  the  three  colours  are  used-  in  the  proper  sense, 
whereas  if  applied  to  the  three  qualities  they  would  be  figuratively  em- 
ployed (roJiitddlndm  cJia  sabddndm  rupa-msesheshu  muJchyatvdd  bhdkta- 
tvdch  cha  guna-vishayatvasya).  S'ankara  concludes  that  this  verse,  de- 
scriptive of  the  unborn  female,  does  not  denote  any  self-dependent 
material  cause  called  Pradhana,  but  is  shewn  from  the  context  to 
signify  the  Divine  Power  in  its  primordial  state  before  Name  and  Form 
were  developed  (na  svatantrd  kdchit  prakritih  pradhdnam  ndma  ajd-man- 
trena  dmndydte  iti  sakyate  vaktum  \  prakarandt  tu  sd  eva  daivl  saldir 
avydkrita-ndma-rupd  ndma-rupayoh  prdg  avasthdnendpi  mantrena  dmnd- 
yate ity  uchyate). 

Passing  over  the  further  questions,  which  are  raised  on  this  subject, 
I  go  on  to  the  llth  Sutra  and  the  comment  upon  it,  from  which  we 
learn  that  the  words  '  knowing  him  by  whom  the  five  times  five  men, 
and  the  a3ther  are  upheld,  to  be  Soul,'  etc.  (yasmin  pancha  pancha-jandh 
dlcdsds  cha  pratishthitah  \  tarn  evdnyah  dtmdnam  vidvdn  ityddi\  are  ad- 
duced by  the  Sankhyas  in  support  of  their  system,  as  the  number  of 
the  principles  (tattva'),  which  it  affirms  (see  Sankhya  Karika,  verse  3, 
and  Sankhya  Sutras,  i.  61),  corresponds  to  *,he  number  twenty-five  in  this 
text ;  while,  the  applicability  of  the  passage  is  denied  by  the  Vedantins 
on  the  ground  that  the  '  principles '  of  the  Sankhya  are  not  made  up  of 
five  homogeneous  sets  of  five  each  (p.  362) ;  that  if  the  Soul  and  aether 
mentioned  in  the  text  are  added,  as  they  must  be,  to  the  twenty-five, 
the  aggregate  number  will  exceed  that  of  the  Sankhya  '  principles,' 
among  which  both  Soul  and  ffither  are  comprehended  (pp.  364  f.) ;  that 
the  fact  of  the  correspondence  of  the  numbers,  if  admitted,  would  not 
suffice  to  shew  that  the  '  principles '  of  the  Sankhya  were  referred  to, 
as  they  are  not  elsewhere  recognized  in  the  Veda,  and  as  ?he  word 
119  See  Babu  Rajendra  Lai  Mittra's  translation  of>this  Upanishad,  p.  106. 


168  OPINIONS    REGARDING   THE    ORIGIN,  ETC., 

'  men  '  (jandh)  is  not  usually  applied  to  denote  '  principles  '  (p.  365) ; 
and  further  that  the  phrase  'the  five  dve  men,'  signifies  only  'five,' 
and  not  '  five  times  five '  (p.  366),  etc-.  The  conclusion  arrived  at  in 
the  twelfth  aphorism  is  that  the  breath,  and  other  vital  afts,  are  re- 
ferred to  in  the  passage  under  consideration;  and  that  although  the 
word  '  men '  (jandh'fis  not  generally  applied  to  '  breath,'  etc.,  any  more 
than  to  'principles,'  the  reference  is  determined  by  the  context.  Others, 
as  S'ankara  observes,  explain  the  term  '  the  five  inen '  (panchajdndh]  of 
the  gods,  fathers,  gand-harvas,  asurap,  and  rakshases,  and  others  again  of 
the  four  castes,  and  the  Nishadas.150  The  Yedantic  teacher  (Badara- 
yana)  however,  as  his  commentator  adds,  has  decided  that  the  breath, 
etc.,  are  intended. 

If  we  now  turn  to  the  Sankhya  aphorisms  themselves,  we  shall  find 
that  their  author  constantly  refers  to  texts  of  the  Yeda  as  supporting, 
coinciding  with,  or  reconcileable  with  his  dogmas.  I  have  noticed  the 
following  instances,  viz.  Sutras  i.  5,  36,  51,  54,  78,  84,  148,  155;  ii. 
20-22;  iii.  14,  15,  80 ;  iv.  22  ;  v,  1,  12,  15,  21  ;  vi.  32,  34,  51,  58, 
59,  which  may  be  consulted  in  Dr.  Ballantyne's  translation.  I  can 
only  refer  more  particularly  to  a  few  of  these  with  the  commentator's 
remarks. 

I  begin  with  Sutra  i.  155,151  in  which  the  author  of  the  Aphorisms 
maintains  that  the  great  distinctive  dogma  of  the  Vedanta,  the  oneness 
of  Soul,  is  not  supported  by  the  Veda.  In  Sutra  150  he  had  laid  it 
down  as  his  own  conclusion,  established"  by  the  fact  of  the  variety  ob- 
servable in  the  conditions  of  birth,  etc.,  that  there  is  a  multitude  of 
souls,  and  he  now  defends  this  as  conformable  to  Scripture. 

"Na  advaita-sruti-virodho  jdf'i-paratvdt "  j  dtmaikya-srutlndm  virodhas 
tu  ndsti  tdsdm  jdti-paratvdt  \  jdtih  sdmdnyam  eka-rupatvam  tattra  ad- 
vaita-srutlndih  tdtparyydd  na  tv  ahhandatve  prayojandbhdvdd  ity  arthah  \ 
....  yatha-sruta-jdti-saldasya  ddare  tv  "dtmd  idam  eJcah  eva  agreaslt" 
"sad  eva  saumya  idam  agre  dsld  ekam  eva^advitiyam"  (Chhand.  Up.  vi. 
2,  \}ity-ddy-advaita-$ruty-iipapddakatayd  eva  sutram  vydkheyafii  \  "jdti- 
paratvdt"  |  vijdtlya-dvaiVa-nishedha-paratvdd  ity  arthah  \  tattra  ddya- 
vydkhydydm  ayam  Ihdvah  \  dtmaikya-sruti-smritishv  ekddi-sabdds  chid- 


50  See  the  First  Volume  of  this  work,  pp.  176  ff. 
161  i.  154  in-  Dr.  Hall's  edition  in  the  Bibl.  Ind. 


OF  THE  VEDAS,   HELD   BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  169 

ekarupatd-mdttra-pardh  bhedddi-sabdds  cha  vaidharmya-lakshana-bheda- 
pardh  |  , 

"  155.  '  This  is  not  opposed  to  the  Vedic  doctrine  of  non-duality, 
since  that  merely  refers  to  genus.'  Our  doctrine  that  souls  are  numer- 
ous does  not  .conflict  with  -the  Yedic  texts  which  affirm  the  oneness  of 

a 

Sou1.,  since  these  passages  refer  to'  oneness  of  genus.  Genus  means 
sameness,  oneness  of  nature ;  and  it  ois  to  this  that  the  texts  regarding 
non-duality  relate,  and  not  to  the  undividedness  (or  identity)  of  Soul ; 
since  there  is  no  occasion  for  the  latter  view.  The  Sutra  must  be 
explained  with  due  regard  to  the  sense  of  the  word  genus  as  it  occurs 
in  the  Yeda,  so  as  (thereby)  to  bring  out  the  proper  meaning  of  such 
texts,  expressing  non-duality,  as  these,  '  This  was  in  the  beginning 
Soul,  one  only ; '  '  This  was  in  the  beginning,  o  fair  youth,  Existent, 
one  without  a  second.'  The  words  '  since  that  merely  refers  to  genus,' 
mean  '  since  that  is  merely  intended  to  deny  a  duality  denoting  a 
difference  of  genus.'  The  first  of  two  interpretations  given  of  the 
Sutra  is  as  follows  :  In  the  texts  of  the  S'ruti  and  Smriti  relating  to  the 
oneness  of  Soul,  the  words  '  One,'  etc.,  denote  simply  that  Spirit  is  one 
in  its  nature ;  whilst  the  words,  '  distinction,'  etc.,  designate  a  dif- 
tinction  defined  as  difference  of  nature."  At  the  close  of  his  remarks 
the  commentator  gives  a  second  explanation  of  the  Sutra. 

The  author  returns  to  this  subject  in  the  61st  S  utra  of  the  fifth  Book  : 
"Nfradvaitam  dtmano  lingdt  tad-lheda-pratlteh"  \  yadyapy  dtmandm 
anyonyam  bheda-vdkya-vad  abheda-vdkydny  api  santi  tathdpi  na  advaitam  \ 
na  atyantam  abhedah  \  ajddi-vdkya-sthaih  prakriti-tydgdtydgddi-lingair 
bhedasyaiva  siddher  ity  arthah  \  na  hy  atyantdbhede  tdni  lingdny  upa- 
padyante  \  • 

"  '  Soill  is  not  one  ;  for  a  distinction  of  souls  is  apparent  from  various 
signs.'  Although  there  are  texts  affirming  that  there  is  no  distinction, 
just  as  there  are  others  which  assert  a  distinction,  of  souls,  still  non- 
duality,  i  e.  an  absolute  absence  of  distinction  must  be  denied ;  because 
a  distinction  is  established  by  signs,  such  as  the  abandonment  and  non- 
abandonment  of  Prakriti,  etc.,  mentioned  in  such  texts  as  that  about  the 
'  unborn  female,'  etc.  (See'above,  p.  165.)  For  these  signs  are  incon- 
sistent with  the  hypothesis  of  an  absolute  Absence  of  distinction,"  etc. 

*^ 

A  kindred  subject  is  introduced  in  the  next  Sutra,  thp  62nd : 

"Na  andtmand'pi  pratyaksha-bddhdt"  \  dndtmand'pilhogya-prapan- 


170  OPINIONS  REGARDING  THE  ORIGIN,  ETC., 

chena  dtmano  na  advaitam  pratyaTcsJiendpi  bddJidt  \  dtmanah  sarva-bhog- 
ydbhede  ghata-patayor  apy  abhedah  sydt  ^  ghatddeh  patqdy-abhinndtmd- 
bheddt  |  sa  cha  bheda-grdhaka-pratyakshtf-badhitah  f 

"'Further,  there  is  not  an  absence  of  distinction  (i.e.  identity)  be- 
tween Soul  and  non-soul,  as  this  is  disproved  by  the  evidence  of  sense.' 
That  is  :  non-duality  (i.e.  identity)  is  not  predicable  of  Soul  on  the 
one  hand,  and  non-soul,  i.e.  the  perceptible  otjects  by  which  our  senses 
are  affected,  on  the  other,  because  this  is  opposed  to  the  evidence  of 
sense.  For  if  soul  wef  e  identical  v/ith  all  that  is  perceptible,  there 
would  also  be  no  distinction  between  a  jar  and  cloth,  inasmuch  as  jars, 
etc.,  would  not  be  distinct  from  soul  which  is  not  distinct  from  cloth, 
etc. ;  and  such  identity  (of  jars,  etc.,  with  cloth,  etc.)  is  opposed  to  the 
evidence  of  sense  which  obliges  us  to  perceive  a  distinction." 

But  how  is  this  to  be  reconciled  with  such  Yedic  texts  as  '  this  is 
nothing  but  soul'  (dttnd  eva  idam)t  An  answer  is  given  in  Sutra  64, 
which  seems  to  admit  that  the  passages  in  question  do  at  least  on  a 
prima  facie  view  convey  the  sense  ascribed  to  them  by  the  Vedantins : 

"Anya-paratvam  avivekdndm  tattra "  |  avivekdndm  avivelci-purushdn 
prati  tattra  advaite  'nya-paratvam  updsandrthakdnuvddah  ity  artJiah  \ 
loke  hi  sarlra-sarlrinor  bJiogya-bhoTctros  cha  avivelcena  abhedo  vyavahriyate 
"'ham  gauro"  "mama  dtmd  Bhadrasenah"  ityddih  \  atas  tarn  eva  vya- 
vahdram  anudya  tun  eva  prati  tathd  updsandm  irutir  mdadhdti  sattva- 
suddhy-ddy-artham  iti  \  • 

"  'These  texts  have  another  object,  with  a  view  to  those  who  have 
no  discrimination.'  That  is  :  in  the  passages  which'  affirm  non-duality 
another  object  is  intended,  viz.  a  reference  (to  vulgar  ideas)  with  a  view 
to  stimulate  devotion.  For  it--  commonly  occurs  that  undiscriminating 
persons  confound  the  body  and  the  soul,  the  object  to  be  experienced, 
and  the  person  who  experiences  it,  as  when  they  say  'I  am  white,' 
'  Bhadrasena  is  myself.'  The  Yeda,  therefore,  referring  to  this  mode  of 
speaking,  inculcates  on  such  undiscerning  people  the  practice  of  devo- 
tion with  a  view  to  tlie  promotion  of  goodness,  purity,  etc." 

The  author  returns  to 'the  subject  of  non-duality  in  Sutra  vi.  51, 
which  is  introduced  by  the  remark  : 

Nanv  evam  pramdnddy-anurodhena  dvaita- sidhhdv  advaita-sruteh  kd 
gatir  iti  \  c 

"But  if  duality  be  thus  established  in  accordance  with  proofs,  etc., 
what  becomes  of  the  Vedic  texts  declaring  non-duality ^?  " 


,  OF  THE   VEDAS,    HELD    BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  171 

The  answer  is  as  follows  : 

"  Na  sruti-virodho  rdgindm  vqirdgydya  tat-siddheh"  \  advaita-sruti- 
virodhas  tu  ndsti  rdgiram  purushdtirikte  vairdgydya  eva  srutibhir  advai- 
ta-sddhdnd1^  \  J 

"  '  Our  view  is  not  opposed  to  the  Veda,  as  the  texts  in  question 
establish  non-duality  with  a  view  to  produce  apathy  in  those  who  are 
actuated  by  desire1.'  'That(is  to  say  :  There  is  in  our  doctrine  regard- 
ing nom-duality  nothing  contrary  to  tile  Veda,  as  the  passages  referred 
to  affirm  this  principle  with  the  view  of  producing  in  those  who  have 
desire  an  indifference  in  regard  to  everything  except  Soul." 

The  12th  aphorism  of  the  fifth  Book  asserts  that  according  to  the 
Veda,  Pradhana,  and  ntft  Isvara,  is  the  cause  of  the  world.  The  details 
of  the  reasoning  on  which  this  view  is  founded,  as  here  stated  by  the 
commentator,  differ  in  some  respects  from  those  which  S'ankara  puts 
into  the  mouth  of  the  Sankhyas : 

"S'rutir  api  pradhdna-ltdryyatvasya  "  |  prapanche  pradhdna-kdryya- 
tvasya  eva  srutir  asti  na  chetana-kdranatve  \  yatJid  "  ajdm  ekdm  lohita- 
sukla-lcrishndm  bahvlh  prajdh  srijamdndm  sarupdh "  |  "  tad  ha  idam 
tarhy  avydlcritam  aslt  tad  ndma-rupdlhydm  vydlcriyata"  ity-adir  ity 
arthah  \  yd  cha  "  tad  aikshata  bahu  sydm "  ityddis  chetana-kdranatd- 
srutih  sd  sargdddv  utpannasya  mahat-tattvopddhikasya  mahdpurushasya 
janya-jndna-pard  \  Jcirnvd  bahu-bhavandnurodhut  pradhdne  eva  "  Jculam 
pipatishati"  iti-vad  gaunl  \  anyathd  " sdksM  chetdh  Jcevalo  nirgunas 
cha ' '  (  S' vetas vatara  Upanishad,'  vi.  11)  ity  -ddi-  sruty  -  ulctdparindmitva- 
sya  purushe  'nupapatter  iti  \  ay  am  cha  Isvara  -  pratishedhah  aisvaryye 
vairdgydrtham  Isvara  -  jndnam  vind'pi  moksha  -  pratipddandrtham  cha 
praudhi-vdda-mdttram  iti  prdg  eva  vydkhydtam  \ 

11 1  Ther§  are  also  Vedic  texts  to  support  the  doctrine  that  the  world 
has  sprung  from  Pradhana,  as  its  cause.'  That  is:  There  are  Vedic 
texts  to  shew  that  the  phenomenal  world  has  sprung  from  Pradhana, 
and  that  it  has  not  had  a  conscious  being  for  its  cause.  They  are  such 
as  these  y» '  An  unborn  female,  red,  white,  and  blftck  in  hue,  producing 
many  creatures  like  herself,  etc. ; '  '  This  was  once  undeveloped :  it 
was  developed  with  Name  and  Form.'  As  regards  those  other  texts 
which  affirm  the  causality  of  a  conscious  being,  such  as  '  It  reflected, 
let  me  become  many,'  they  refer  to  the  knowledge  which  sprang  up  in 
the  great  Male  who  was  produced  at  the  beginning  of  the'  creation  pos- 


172  OPINIONS  REGARDING  THE   ORIGIN,  ETC., 

sessing  the  attributes  of  the  principle  of  Intellect  (Mahat).  Or,  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  idea  of  becoming  multiplied,  the  expression  (indicat- 
ing consciousness  and  will)  is  figuratively  applied  to  Pradhana,  as  when 
it  is  said  of  the  bank  of  a  river  that  it  '  intends  to  fall.'  For  on  any 
other  supposition  the  incapability  of  any  modification  which  is  ascribed  to 
Purusha  in  such  te^ds  as  '  He  who  is  the  witness,  the*  conscious,  the 
sole  being,  free  from  the  Qualities,'  could  npt  properly  be  applied  to 
him  (since  if  he  were  the  material  cause  of  the  creatiou  he  must  become 
modified).  And  it  has9be"en  before  explained152  that  this  denial  of  an 
Isvara  is  a  mere  display  of  ingenuity,  introduced  for  the  purpose  of 
producing  apathy  in  regard  to  glory,  and  of  propounding  a  method  of 
final  liberation  even  independently  of  the  knowledge  of  an  Isvara." 

The  following  is  the  34th  Sutra  of  the  sixth  Book,  with  the  remarks 
by  which  it  is  introduced  and  followed : 

Nanu  "  lahvih  prajdh  purushdt  samprasutdh  "  ity-ddi-sruteh  puru- 
shasya  kdranatvdvagamdd  vivarttddi  -  vdddh  dsrayamydh  ity  usankya 
aha  |  " sruti-mrodhdd  na  kutarkdpasadasya  atma-ldbhah"  \  purusha- 
kdranatdydm  ye  ye  pahshdh  sambhdvitds  te  sarve  sruti-viruddhdh  iti  \ 
atas  tad  -  alhyupagantrmdm  kutdrkikddy  -  adhamandm  dtma- svarupa-. 
jntinam  na  lhavati  ity  arthah  \  etena  dtmani  sulcha-duhkhddi-gunopddd- 
natva-vddino  'pi  kutdrhikdh  eva  \  teshdm  apy  dtma-yathdrtha-jndnam 
ndsti  ity  avagantavyam  \  dtma-kdranatd-srutayas  cfta  sakti-saHimad- 
abhedena  updsandrthdh  eva  "ajdm  elcdm"  ity-ddi-srutibhih  pradhdna- 
Jcdranatd-siddheh  \  yadi  cha  dkdsasya  alftrddy-adhishthdna-kdranatd-vad 
dtmanah  Jcdranatvam  uchyate  tadd  tad  na  nirdkurmah  parindmasya  pra- 
tishedhdt  \ 

"But  must  we  not  adopt  the  theories  of  an  illusory  creation,  etc., 
because  the  causality  of  Purusha  (soul)  is  to  be  learned  from  (such  texts 
as  the  following  '  many  creatures  have  been  produced  from  Purusha  ? ' 
To  this  difficulty  he  replies:  'From  his  opposition  to  Scripture  the 
illogical  outcaste  does  not  attain  to  Soul.'  'The  sense  of  this  is,  that  all 
the  propositions,  affiriping  the  causality  of  Soul,  which  have  'been  de- 
vised, are  contrary  to  the  Yeda  ;  and  consequently  the  low  class  of  bad 
logicians,  etc.,  who  adopt  them  have  no  knowledge  of  the  nature  of 

162  See  Viinana  Bhikshu's  remarks,  introductory  to  the  Sutras  (p.  5,  at  the  foot), 
which  will  he  quoted  in.  the  next  Section,  and  his  comment  on  Sutra  i.  92.  He  is, 
as  we  shall  find,  an  eclectic,  and  not  a  thorough-going  adherent  of  the  Sankhya. 


OF  THE  VEDAS,  HELD   BY   INDIAN  AUTHORS.  173 

Soul.  Hence  it  is  to  be  understood  that  those  also  who  assert  that 
Soul  is  the  substance  of  the  qualities  of  pleasure  and  pain,  etc.,  are 
incompetent  reasoners  :  they  top  are  destitute  of  the  true  knowledge  of 
Soul.  The  Yedic  texts 'which  declare  its  causality  are  intended  to  in- 
culcate devotion  on  the  ground  that  there  is  no  distinction  between 
Power  (S'akti)  and  the  possessor  of  Power  (S' aktimaf) ;  for  the  causality 
of  Pradhana  is  Established,  by  such  texts  as  that  relating  to  the  'one 
unborn  female,'  ek).  JBut  if  it  be  affirmed  that  Soul  is  the  cause  of  the 
world  merely  in  the  same  sense  in  which  the  aether  is  the  cause  of  clouds, 
etc.,  viz.  by  affording  them  a  receptacle,  we  do  not  object  to  that,  since 
we  only  deny  the  transformation  (of  Soul  into  material  productions)."153 
In  regard  to  the  question  whether  the  principles  of  the  Yedanta  or 
those  of  the  Sankhya' are  most  in  harmony  with  the  most  prevalent  doc- 
trine of  the  Upanishads,  I  shall  quote  some  of  the  remarks  of  Dr.  Rb'er, 
the  translator  of  many  of  these  treatises.  In  his  introduction  to  the 
Taittirlya  TJpanishad  he  observes  that  we  there  find  "the  tenets  pecu- 
liar to  the  Yedanta  already  in  a  far  advanced  state  of  development ;  it 
contains  as  in  a  germ  the  principal  elements  of  this  system."  "  There 
are,  however,"  he  adds,  "  differences  "  (Bibliotheca  Indica,  vol.  xv.  p.  5). 
The  same  nearly  is  the  case  with  the  Aitareya  Upanishad  (ibid.  p.  27). 
In  reference  to  the  S'vetasvatara  Upanishad  he  remarks  :  "  S'ankara  in 
his  commentary  on  this  Upanishad  generally  explains  its  fundamental 
views  in  the  spirit  of  the  Yedanta.  He  is  sometimes  evidently  wrong 
in  identifying  the  views  of  Some  of  the  other  Upanishads  with  the 
tenets  of  the  Yedanta,  but  he  is  perfectly  right  to  do  so  in  the  explana- 
tion of  an  Upanishad  which  appears  to  have  been  composed  for  the 
express  purpose  of  making  the  principle  of  the  Yedanta  agreeable  to 
the  followers  of  the  Sankhya  "  (ibid,  pp!  43  f.).  Of  the  Katha  Upani- 
shad Dr.  Roer  says  (ibid.  p.  97) :  "  The  standing  point  of  the  Katha  is 
on  the  whole  that  of  the  Yedanta.  It  is  the  absolute  spirit  which  is 
the  foundation  of  the  world.' ....  In  the  order  of  manifestations  or 
emanations  from  the  absolute  spirit  it  deviates,  however,  from  that 
adopted  by  the  other  Upanishads  and  by  the^  later  Yedanta,  and  is  evi- 
dently more  closely  allied  to  the  Sankhya.  The  order  is  here :  The 
unmanifested  (avyakta),  the  great  soul  (mahutma,  or  mahat),  intellect 

153  See  Dr.  Ballantyne's  translation,  which  I  have  often  followed.  THe  does  not, 
however,  render  iu  extenso  all  the  passages  which  I  have  reproduced. 


174  OPINIONS  REGARDING    THE  ORIGIN,   ETC., 

(buddhi},  mind,  the  objects  of  the  senses,  and  the  senses,"  etc.151  The 
reader  who  wishes  to  pursue  the  subject  further  may  consult  the  same 
author's  remarks  on  the  other  Upanishads.  On  <  the  whole  question  of 
the  relation  of  the  Vedanta  and  the  Sankhya  respectively  tb  the  Yeda, 
Dr.  Roer  thus  expresses  himself  in  his  introduction  to  the  S'vetasvatara 
Upanishad  (p.  36)  :*"  The  Vedanta,  although  in  many  important  points 
deviating  from  the  Vedas,  and  although  in  its  own  doctrine  quite  inde- 
pendent of  them,  was  yet  believed  to  be  in  ptrfedt  accordance  with 
them,  and  being  adopted  by  the  ^ajority  of  the  Brahmans,  it  was 
never  attacked  on  account  of  its  orthodoxy.  The  same  cannot  be  said 
of  the  Sankhya ;  for  it  was  not  only  frequently  in  opposition  to  the 
doctrine  of  the  Vedas,  but  sometimes  openly  declared  so.  Indeed,  the 
Vedanta  also  maintained  that  the  acquisition  of  truth  is  independent  of 
caste  (1)  or  any  other  distinction,  and  that  the  highest  knowledge 
which  is  the  chief  end  of  man  cannot  be  imparted  by  the  Vedas  (vide 
Katha  ii.  23) ;  yet  it  insisted  that  a  knowledge  of  the  Vedas  was  ne- 
cessary to  prepare  the  mind  for  the  highest  knowledge  (2).  This  the 
Sankhya  denied  altogether,  and  although  it  referred  to  the  Vedas,  and 
especially  to  the  Upanishads,  still  it  did  so  only  when  they  accorded 
with  its  own  doctrines,  and  it  rejected  their  authority  (3)  in  a  case  of 
discrepancy." 

I  make  a  few  remarks  on  some  points  in  this  quotation  indicated  by 
the  figures  (1),  (2),  and  (3).  (1)  We  have  already  learned  above,  p.  99, 
that,  according  to  the  Brahma  Sutras  (se"e  i.  3,  34  if.,  and  S'ankara's  ex- 
planation of  them),  at  least,  a  S'udra  does  not  possess  the  prerogative  of 
acquiring  divine  knowledge.  (2)  It  appears  from  S'ankara's  argument 
against  Jaimini  that  he  does  npt  consider  a  knowledge  of  the  ceremonial 
part  of  the  Veda  as  necessary  for  the  acquisition  of  divine  knowledge, 
but  he  seems  to  regard  the  Upanishads  as  the  source  from  which  the 
latter  is  derived.  (3)  I  do  not  know  on  what  authority  this  statement 
that  the  Sankhyas  ever  actually  rejected  fhe  authority  of  the  Vedas  is 
founded.  Their  attempts  to  reconcile  their  tenets  with  the  ^letter  of 
the  Veda  may  often  seem  "to  be  far-fetched  and  sophistical ;  but  I  have 
not  observed  that  S'ankara,  while  arguing  elaborately  against  the  inter- 
pretations of  the  Sankhyas,  anywhere  charges  them  either  with  deny- 
ing the  authority  of  the  Veda,  or  with  insincerity  in  the  appeals  which 
they  make  to  the  sacred  texts. 

154  See  above,  p.  161. 


OF  THE  VEDAS,    HELD   BY   INDIAN   AUTHORS.  175 

On  the  subject  of  the  Fpanishads  the  reader  may  also  consult  Prof. 
Max  Miiller's  Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature. 

I  subjoin  in  a  note  sdme  extracts  from  this  work.155 

The  Nyaya  and  Vaiseshika  Sutras  do  not  appear  to  contain  nearly  so 
many  .references  to  Vedic  texts  as  the  Sankhya  ;  but  I  have  noticed  the 
following:  Nyaya  iii.  32  (=  iii.  1,  29  in  the  Bibl.  Ind.) ;  Vaiseshika 
ii.  1,  17 ;  iii.  2,  21 ;  iv.  2,  11 ;  v.  2,  10. 

The  author  of  the'Vaiseshika  Sutras  affirms,  in  iii.  2,  20,  the  doctrine 
that  souls  are  numerous;  and  in  the  21st  Sutra, -which  I  quote,  along 
with  the  comment  of  S'ankara  Misra,  and  the  gloss  of  the  editor  Pandit 
Jayanarayana  Tarkapanchanana,  he  claims  Yedic  authority  for  this  tenet : 

21.   "  S' dstra-sdmartfiyach  cha"  \  (S'ankara  Misra)  S'dstram  srutih  \ 

155  «  They  (the  Upanishads)  contain,  or  are  supposed  to  contain,  the  highest  au- 
thority on  which  the  various  systems  of  philosophy  in  India  rest.  Not  only  the 
Vedanta  philosopher,  who,  by  his  very  name,  professes  his  faith  in  the  ends  and 
objects  of  the  Veda,  but  the  Sankhya,  the  Vaiseshika,  the  Nyaya,  and  Yoga  philo- 
sophers, all  pretend  to  find  in  the  Upanishads  some  warranty  for  their  tenets,  however 
antagonistic  in  their  bearing.  The  same  applies  to  the  numerous  sects  that  have 
existed  and  still  exist  in  India.  Their  founders,  if  they  have  any  pretensions  to 
orthodoxy,  invariably  appeal  to  some  passage  in  the  Upanishads  in  order  to  substan- 
tiate their  own  reasonings.  Now  it  is  true  that  in  the  Upanishads  themselves  there 
is  so  much  freedom  and  breadth  of  thought  that  it  is  not  difficult  to  find  in  them  some 
authority  for  almost  any  shade  of  philosophical  opinion."  (p.  316  f.)  Again :  "  The 
early  Hindus  did  not  find  any  difficulty  in  reconciling  the  most  different  and  some- 
times contradictory  opinions  in  their  search  after  truth;  and  a  most  extraordinary 
medley  of  oracular  sayings  might  be  Oollected  from  the  Upanishads,  even  from  those 
which  are  genuine  and  comparatively  ancient,  all  tending  to  elucidate  the  darkest 
points  of  philosophy  and  religion,  the  creation  of  the  world,  the  nature  of  God,  the 
relation  of  man  to  God,  and  similar  subjects.  That  one  statement  should  be  contra- 
dicted by  another  seems  never  to  have  been  felt  as  any  serious  difficulty."  (p.  320  f.) 
Once  more  :  "  The  principal  interest  of  the  older  Upanishads  consists  in  the  absence 
of  that  systematic  uniformity  which  we  find  in  the  later  systems  of  philosophy ;  and 
it  is  to  be  regretted  that  nearly  all  the  scholars  who  have  translated  portions  of  the 
Upanishads  have  allowed  themselves  to  be  guided  by  the  Brahmanic  commentators," 
etc.  (p.  322).  "  In  philosophical  discussions,  they  (the  Brahmans)  allowed  the  greatest 
possible  freedom ;  and  although  at  first  three  philosophical  systems  only  were  admitted 
as  orthodox  (the  two  MTmansas  and  the  Nyaya),  their  numbe?  was  soon  raised  to  six» 
so  as  to  include  the  Vaiseshika,  Sankhya,  and  Yoga  schools.  The  most  conflicting 
views  on  points  of  vital  importance  were  tolerated  as  long  as  their  advocates  succeeded, 
no  matter  by  what  means,  in  bringing  their  doctrines  into  harmony  \vith  passages  of 
the  Veda,  strained  and  twisted  in  every  possible  sense.  If  it  was  only  admitted  that 
besides  the  perception  of  the  senses  and  the  induction  »of  reason,  revelation  also,  as 
contained  in  the  Veda,  furnished  a  true  basis  for  human  knowledge,  ail  other  points 
seemed  to  be  of  minor  importance."  (p.  78  f.) 


176  OPINIONS  REGARDING  THE  ORIGIN,  ETC., 

tayd  'py  dtmano  bheda-pratipddandt  \  sruyate  hi  .  .  .  .  (Jayanarayana) 
ito  'py  jlvasya  Isvara-bhinnatvam  ity  'aha  \  sastrasya*.  sruteh  sdmarthydj 
jlvesvarayor  bheda-bodhakatvdt   \  tathd  hi  \  |*  dve  bralmanl  veditavye" 
(Maitrl  Up.  vi.  22)  |  "  dvd  suparnd  sayujd  sakhdyd  samdnam  vriksham 
parishasvajdte  \  tayor  anyah  pippalam  svadu  atti  anasnann  anyo  abhichd- 
kaslti"  (Big-veda  Sanhita,  i.  164,  20;  SVetasv.  Tip.  vi.  6;  Mundaka 
Up.  i.  3,  1,  1)  ity-ddi-sruter  jlvesvarayor^bhedo  'vafyam  anglkaryyah  \ 
na  cha  "tat  tvam  asi  S'vetaketo "  "Brahma-md  Brahma  eva*bhavati" 
ity-ddi-srutlndm  Itd'gatir  iti  vdoJiyam  \  "tat  tvam  asi"  iti  srutes  tad- 
abhedena  tadlyatva-pratipddanena  abheda-lhdvand-paratvdt  \  "  Brahma- 
md  Brahma  eva"  iti  srutis  cha  nirduhkhatvddind  Isvara-sdmy  am  jlvasya 
abhidhatte  na  tu  tad-abhedam  \  "  niranjanah  paxam  sdmyam  upaiti"  iti 
sruter  gaty-antardsambhavdt  \  asti  hi  lauTciJca-vdlcyeshu  "  sampad-ddhikye 
purohito ''yam  raja  samvrittah"  ity-ddishu  sddrisya-pareshv  abhedopa- 
chdrah   \   na  cha  moltsha- dasdydm   ajndna-nivrittdv  abhedo  jdyate   iti 
vdchyam  bhedasya  nityatvena  ndsdyogdd  bheda-ndsdngikdre.  'pi  vyakti- 
dvaydvasthdnasya  dvasyahatvdch  cha  iti  sankshepah   \   bheda-sddhakdni 
yukty-antardni  sruty-antardni  cha  grantha-gaurava-bhiyd  parityaktdni  \ 
"  '  And  this  opinion  is  confirmed  by  the  S'astra.'     (S'ankara  Misra) 
The  S'astra  means  the  Veda;  by  which  also  a  distinction  of  Souls  is 
established.   For  it  is  said,"  etc.    [He  then  quotes  two  texts  which  are 
repeated  by  Jayanarayana,  the  author  of  the  gloss,  whose  remarks  are 
as  fullows  :]    "  There  is  another  prootf  of  the  Soul  being  distinct  from 
Isvara ;  viz.  this,  that  it  is  confirmed  by  the  S'astra,  the  Veda,  which 
declares  the  distinctness  of  the  two ;  and  this  principle  must  of  neces- 
sity be  admitted  from  such  texts  as  these :  'Two  Brahmas  are  to  be 
known ; >156  and  'Two  birds,  united,  friends,  attach  themselves  to  the  same 
tree ;  one  of  them  eats  the  sweet  fruit  of  the  pippala  tree,  while  the  other, 
without  eating,  looks  on.'  Nor  are  we  to  ask  what  will  then  become  of 
such  other  texts  as  (1)  'Thou  art  that,  o  SVetaketu;'  (2)  'He  who 
knows  Brahma  becomes  Brahma ; '  for  the  for,mer  of  these  two  passages 
(1)  tends  to  conve'y  the  idea  of  identity  by  representing  as  identity 
with  That,  the  fact  of  S'vetaketu's  entirely  belonging  to  That;  whilst 

156  The  full  text  is  :  Dve  brahmanl  veditavye  sabda-brahma  param  cha  yat — sabda- 
brahmari  nishnatah param  brahmadhigachhati  \  "Two  Brahmas  are  to  be  known,  the 
verbal  and  tile  supreme.  He  who  is  initiated  in  the  former  attains  the  latter."  Here, 
however,  by  the  verbal  Brahma,  the  Veda  must  be  intended. 


OF  THE   VEDAS,    HELD  BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  177 

the  second  (2)  affirms  the  equality  of  the  Soul  with  fsvara,  in  con- 
sequence of  its  freedom  from  pain  and  other  weaknesses,  and  not  its 
identity  with  Him ;  for  it  is  shewn  by  another  Yedic  text,  viz.  '  The 
passionless  2ian  attains  the  highest  state  of  equality,'  that  any  other 
destiny  would  be  inconceivable.  In  secular  modes  of  speaking  also, 
such  as  the  following,  '  From  the  abundance  of  his  wealth  the  domestic 
priest  has  become  the 'king,',  we  find  a  figurative  assertion  of  identity. 
Nor  can  It  be  said  tkat  (distinction  disappears  on  the  cessation  of  ignor- 
ance in  the  state  of  final  emancipation,  because*1  distinction,  from  its 
eternity,  cannot  be  destroyed,  and  because,  even  if  its  destructibility 
were  admitted,  two  separate  personalities  must  still  continue  to  exist. 
Such  is  a  summary  of  6ur  argument:  further  proofs  from  reasoning, 
and  further  texts  of  the  Yeda,  are  omitted  from  a  dread  of  making  the 
book  too  bulky." 

The  charge  of  open  contempt  of  the  Yeda  is  brought  by  S'ankara 
against  S'andilya,  the  author  of  the  Bhagavata  heresy,  as  the  orthodox 
Yedantin  considers  it.157.  Of  that  doctrine  S'ankara  thus  speaks  in 
his  remarks  on  Brahma  Sutra  ii.  2,  45  :  % 

Veda-viprat&hedhas  cha  bhavati  \  chaturshu  vedeshu  par  am  sreyo  'lab- 
dhvd  S'andilyah  idam  sustram  adhigatavan  ity-adi-veda-ninda-darsanat  \ 
tasmad  asangata  eshu  kalpanu,  iti  siddham  \ 

"And  it  also  contradicts  the  Yeda:  for  we  see  such  an  instance  of 
contempt  of  the  Yedas  as  this,  that  S'andilya,  not  finding  the  means 
of  attaining  the  highest  good  in  the  whole  four  of  them,  devised  this 
S'astra.  Hence  it  is  established  that  these  imaginations  are  absurd." 

The  points  of  the  Bhagavata  doctrine  objected  to  by  S'ankara  do  not 
however  appear  to  be  those  which  are  principally  insisted  on  in  the 
Bhakti  Sutra?,  of  S'andilya,  published  by  Dr.  Ballantyne  in  the  Biblio- 
theca  Indica  in  1861.  I  will  notice  some  of  these  doctrines.  The 
leading  principle  of  the  system  is  that  it  is  not  knowledge  (jnana)  but 
devotion  (bhaRti)  which  is  the  means  of  attaining  final  liberation 
(Sutra  1).  Devotion  is  defined  in  the  2nd  Sutra  to  be  a  supreme  love 
of  God  (sd  para  anuraktir  Isvare).  Knowledge  cannot,  the  author  con- 
siders, be  the  means  of  liberation,  as  it  may  co-exist  with  hatred  of  the 
object  known  (Sutra  4).  Neither  the  study  of  the  Yeda  nor  the  acqui- 

157  See  Colebrooke's  Misc.  Essays,  i.  413  :  "A  passage  quoted  by  S'ankara  Acharya 
seems  to  intimate  that  its  promulgate!  was  S'andilya,"  etc.,  etc. 

12 


178  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,    ETC. 

sition  of  such  qualities  as  tranquility  of  mind  is  a  necessary  preliminary 
to  devotion.  The  only  requisite  is  a-desire  of  emancipation,  according 
to  the  commentator  (remarks  on  Satra  1).  Ceremonial  works,  too, 
have  no  bearing  upon  devotion  (Sutra  7),  which  may  be  practised  by 
men  of  all  castes,  and  even  by  ChandaU%s,  since  the  desire  to  get  rid  of 
the  evils  of  mundane  existence  is  common  to  all  (Sutra  78).  The  com- 
mentator explains  that  the  authority  of  th#  Yedas  as  the  only  source  of 
supernatural  knowledge  is  not  denied,  nor  the  facd,  that  only  the  three 
highest  castes  have-  the  right  tp  study  them  :  but  it  is  urged  that 
women,  S'udras,  etc.,  may  attain  by  means  of  the  Itihasas  and  Puranas, 
etc.,  to  knowledge  founded  on  the  Vedas,  whilst  Chandalas,  etc.,  may 
acquire  it  by  traditional  instruction  based  on  the  Smriti  and  the  prac- 
tice of  virtuous  men.  Those  whose  devotion  is  not  matured  in  the 
present  world,  will  find  the  opportunity  of  perfecting  it  in  S'vetadvipa, 
the  world  of  the  divine  Being  (Sutra  79).  Even  the  wicked  may  have  a 
penitential  devotion  (artti-bhaktdv  eva  adhikarah],  and  after  they  are 
freed  from  their  guilt,  they  may  attain  to  full  devotion.  The  Bhagavad 
Gita  is  much  quoted  by  the  commentator  on  these  Sutras ;  but  the 
Veda  is  also  sometimes  adduced  in  proof  of  their  doctrines ;  as  e.g.  the 
following  words  of  the  Chhandogya  TJpanishad,  vii.  25,  2,  are  cited  to 
prove  that  devotion  is  the  chief  requisite,  and  knowledge,  etc.,  subser- 
vient to  it : 

"  Atmd  eva  idam  sarvam  iti  \  sa  vai  esha  evam  pasyann  evam  manvd- 
nah  evam  vijanann  atma-ratir  atma-krldah  dtma-mithunah  atmanandah 
sa  svardd  lhavati"  \  tattra  "  atma-rati-"rupayah  para-bhakteh  " pas- 
yann  "  iti  darsanam  apriyatvddi-bhrama-nirasa-mukhena  angam  lhavati  \ 
"  '  All  this  is  Soul.  H£  who  perceives  this,  thinks  this,  knows  this, 
delights  in  Soul,  sports  with  Soul,  consorts  with  Soul,, .takes  pleasure 
in  Soul ;  he  becomes  self-resplendent.'  Here  the  sight  expressed  in 
the  words  'perceiving,'  etc.,  is  by  removing  all  errors  regarding  dis~ 
agreeableness,  etc.,  an  adjunct  of  supreme  devotion  in  the  form  of  '  de" 
light  in  Soul.'  "  ' 

In  his  remarks  on  Sutra  31  the  commentator  quotes  another  passage 
of  the  same  Upanishad,  iii.  14,  4,  in  v/hich  a  S'andilya  is  referred  to  as 
the  author  of  a  statement.  S'anbara  in  his  commentary  on  the  TJpani- 
shad kall|  him  a  rishi.  He  cannot,  however,  have  been  the  same  person 
as  the  author  of  the  Sutras  j  although,  even  if  he  had  been  so  reputed, 


OF  THE   VEDAS,  HELD    BY  INDIAN   AUTHORS.  179 

S'ankara  would  have  had  little  difficulty  in  denying  that  they  could 
have  been  written  by  a  rishi,  as^we  shall  see  in  the  next  section  that 
he  contradicts  the  opinion  that,  the  rishi  Kapila,  referred  to  in  the 
S'vetasvatar^,  Upanishad,  was  the  author  of  the  Sankhya  aphorisms. 

,  • 

SECT.  XI. — Distinction  in  point  of  authority  between  the  Veda  and  the 
Smritis  or  non'-  VeUic  S'ystras,  as  stated  in  the  Nydya-mdld-vistara, 
and  ly  the  Cominenttitors  on  Manu,  and  the  Veddnta,  etc. ;  difference 
of  opinion  between  S'ankara  and  Madhusud'and  regarding  the  ortho- 
doxy of  Kapila  and  Kandda,  etc. ;  and  Vijndna  Bhikshu's  view  of  the 

Sankhya. 

i 
A  distinct  line  of  demarcation  is   generally  drawn  by  the  more 

critical  Indian  writers  between  the  Vedas,  and  all  other  classes  of 
Indian  S'astras,  however  designated.  The  former,  as  we  have  seen,  are 
considered  to  possess  an  independent  authority  and  to  be  infallible, 
while  the  latter  are  regarded  as  deriving  all  their  authority  from  the 
Veda,  and  (in  theory  at  least)  as  infallible  guides  only  in  so  far  as  they 
coincide  with  its  dicta.  This  will  be  clear  from  the  following  passages : 

I.  Nydya-mdld-vistara. — The  first  text  which  I  adduce  has  been 
already  quoted  in  the  Second  Volume  of  this  work,  but  is  repeated  here 
for  facility  of  reference.  It  is  from  the  treatise  just  named,  i.  3,  24  : 

Baudhdyandpastambdsvaldyana-kdtydyanddi-ndmdnkitdh  kalpa-sutra- 
di-granthdh  nigama-  nirukta-shad^-anga-granthdh  Manv-ddi-smritayas  cha 
apaurusheydh  dharma-luddhi-janakatvdt  veda-vat  \  na  cha  mula-pramdna- 
sdpekshatvena  veda-vaishamyam  iti  Sankanlyam  \  utpanndydh  luddheh 
svatah-prdmdnydnglkdrena  nirapekshatvdt  \  Maivam  \  uktdnumdnasya 
kdldtyaydpadishtatvdt  \  Baudhdyana-sutrarh  Apastamba-sutram  ity  evam 
purusha-ndmnd  te  granthdh  uchyante  \  na  cha  Kdthakddi-samdkhyd-vat 
pravachana-nimittatvam  yuktam  \  tad-grantha-nirmdna-kdle  taddnmtanaih 
kaischid  upalaldhatvdt  \  tach  cha  avichhinna-pdramparyena  anuvarttate  \ 
tatah  Kdliddstidi-gran$ha*vat  paurusheydh  \  tathdpi  veda-mulatvdt  pra- 
mdnam  |  .  .  .  .  kalpasya  vedatvam  nddydpi  siddham  \  kintu  prayatnena 
sddhanlyam  \  na  cha  tat  sddhayitum  sakyam  \  paurusheyatvasya  samdkh- 
yayd  tat-karttur  upalambhena  cha  sdflhitatvdt  \ 

"It  may  be  said  that  the  Kalpa  Sutras  and,  other  works  designated 
by  the  names  of  Baudhayana,  Apastamba,  Asvalayana,  Katyayana,  etc., 


180  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,  ETC., 

and  the  Nigama,  Nirukta,  and  six  Vedangas,  together  with  the  Smritis 
of  Manu  and  others,  are  superhuman,  Because  they  impart  a  knowledge 
of  duty,  as  the  Vedas  do ;  and  that  tihey  should  not  be  suspected  of 
inferiority  to  the  Vedas  on  the  ground  that  they  depend  upoE.  a  primary 
authority,  since  the  knowledge  which  they  impart  is  independent, 
because  it  is  admitted  to  be  self-evidencing.  But  tnis  view  is  in- 
correct, for  the  inference  in  question  proceeds  upon  an  erroneous 
generalization.  The  books  referred  to  are  calle<Vby  the  names  of 
men,  as  '  the  Sutras  of0  Baudhayana,'  '  the  Sutras  of  Apastamba  ; '  and 
these  designations  cannot  correctly  be  said  to  originate  in  the  exposition 
of  the  works  by  those  teachers  whose  names  they  bear  (as  is  really  the 
case  in  regard  to  the  Kathaka,  and  other  parts  of  the  Veda) ;  for  it  was 
known  to  some  of  the  contemporaries  of  these  men,  at  the  time  when 
they  were  composing  these  Sutras,  Smritis,  etc.,  that  they  were  so  en- 
gaged j  and  this  knowledge  has  descended  by  unbroken  tradition. 
Hence  these  books  are,  like  the  works  of  Kalidasa  and  others,  of  human 
origin.  Nevertheless,  they  possess  authority,  as  being  founded  on  the 
Veda."  .  .  .  The  following  additional  remarks  represent  the  opinion  of 
the  Guru  (Prabhakara)  on  the  same  question :  "  It  is  not  yet  proved 
that  the  Kalpa  Sutras  possess  the  character  of  the  Veda;  it  would 
require  great  labour  to  prove  it ;  and,  in  fact,  it  is  impossible  to  prove 
it.  For  the  human  origin  of  these  books  is  established  by  the  names 
which  they  bear,  and  by  their  being  observed  to  have  had  authors." 

II.  Kulluka. — The  same  thing  is  admitted  by  Kulluka,  the  commen- 
tator on  Manu,  who  (in  his  remarks  on  i.  1)  thus  defines  the  relation 
of  his  author  to  the  Vedas  : 

Paurusheyatve  'pi  Manu-vdlfydndm  aviglta-malidjana-parigrahdt  sruty- 
upagrahdcJi  cha  veda-mulakatayd  prdmdnyam  \  Tathd  cha  jhhdndogya- 
Irdhmane  sruyate  "Manur  vai  yat  kinchid  acadat  tad  bheshajam  Iheshaja- 
tdyai"  iti  \  Vrihaspatir  apy  alia  "  Veddrthopanilandhritvdt prddhdnyam 
hi  Manoh  smritam  \  Manv-artha-viparltd '  tu  yd  smritih  sd  na  sasyate  \ 
Tdvach  clihdstrdni  soohante  tarka-vydkarhndni  cha  \  Dharmdrfia-moJcsho- 
padeshtd  Manur  ydvad  nd  drisyate  "  |  Mahdlhdrate  'py  uktam  "Purdnam 
Mtinavo  dharmah  sdngo  vedas  chikitsita^i  \  djnd-siddhdni  chatvdri  na 
hantavydni  hetubhih  "  |  virodhi-Eauddhddi-tarkair  na  hantavydni  \  anu- 
kulas  tu  inlmdmsddi-tarkah  pravarttariiyah  eva  \  ata  eva  vakshyati  "  dr- 
sham  dJiarmopadesaih  chs,  veda-sdstrdvirodhind  \  yas  tarkendnusandhatte 
sa  dharmam  veda  netarah  "  iti  I 


•          OF   THE  VEDAS,   HELD   BT   INDIAN   AUTHORS.  181 

"  Though  the  Institutes  of  Manu  had  a  personal  author,  still,  as  their 
reception  by  illustrious  men  of  imimpeaehed  [orthodoxy],  and  their 
conformity  to  the  Veda*;  prove  that  they  are  based  upon  the  latter,  they 
are  authoritative.  Accordingly  it  is  recorded  in  the  Chhandogya  Brah- 

mana.that,  '"Whatever  Manu  said  is  a  medicine  for  remedial  purposes.' 

>  » 

And  Vrihaspati  says :   '  As  Manu  depends  upon  the  contents  of  the 

Veda,  he  is  traditionally  ce^brated  as  pre-eminent.  But  that  Smriti 
which  is'contrary  to*  the  sense  of  Manu,  is  not  approved.  Scriptures 
and  books  on  logic  and  grammar  are  all  eclipsed  as  soon  as  Manu,  bur 
instructor  in  duty,  and  in  the  means  of  attaining  both  earthly  pros- 
perity, and  final  liberation,  is  beheld.'  And  it  is  said  in  the  Maha- 
bharata :  '  The  Puranas",  the  Institutes  of  Manu,  the  Veda  with  its 
appendages,  and  treatises  on  medicine,  these  four,  which  are  established 
by  authority,  are  not  to  be  assailed  by  rationalistic  arguments ; '  that 
is,  they  are  not  to  be  attacked  by  hostile  reasonings,  such  as  those  of 
the  Bauddhas.  But  friendly  arguments,  such-  as  those  of  the  Mlman- 
sakas,  are  to  be  employed.  And  accordingly  we  shall  find  below  (Manu 
xii.  106)  that  he  says,  'the  man  who  investigates  the  injunctions  of 
the  rishis,  and  the  rules  of  duty  by  reasoning  which  js  agreeable  to  the 
Veda,  he,  and  he  only,  is  acquainted  with  duty.' "  (See  above,  p.  24,. 
note  29.) 

III.  Nyaya-malti-vistara. — But  the  precepts  of  the  Smriti  are  not 
considered  useless  or  superfluous.  On  the  contrary,  an  authority  is 
attributed  to  them  corresponding  to  the  antiquity,  elevated  position, 
and  sacred  character  of  their  supposed  authors.  Thus  the  author  of 
the  Nyaya-mala-vistara  says  (i.  3,  3) : 

Vimatd  smritir  veda-mula  \  vaidika-manv-iidi-pranita-smrititvat  \  upa- 
nayanadhyay(Viudi-smriti-vat  \  no,  clia  vaiyarthyam  sankanlyam  \  asmad- 
udlnum  pratyaksheshu  paroksliesJm  ndnd  vedesJiu  viprakirnasya  anushthe- 
yarthasya'  ekatra  sanlcshipyamanatvat  \ 

"The  variously  understood  Smriti  is  founded  on  the  Veda,  because 
the  traditiofls,  such  as  those  regarding  investiture*  study,  etc.,  have 
been  compiled  by  Vedic  men,  such  as  Manu  and  others.  Nor  is  it  to 
be  surmised  that  the  Smriti  is» useless,  since  it  throws  together  in  a 
condensed  form  a  variety  of  injunctions  regarding  matters  to  be  ob- 
served, which  are  scattered  through  different  Vedas,  both  su,ch*as  are 
visible  and  such  as  are  invisible  to  us."  (This  last  expression  appears 


182  OPINIONS   REGARDING   THE    ORIGIN,  ETC., 

to  refer  to  the  supposition  that  some  parts  of  the  Veda  which  Manu 
and  others  had  before  them  when  compiling  their  own  works  have 
now  been  lost.  See  Huller's  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  pp.  103-107.) 

Accordingly  the  Smritis  have  an  authority  superior  to  that  founded 
merely  on  the  practice  of  learned  men  ,of  modern  date,  who  have  no 
intuition  into  the  past  and  invisible.  Thus  the  Nyaya-mala-visjara 
says  (i.  3,  19) :  ( 

No,  hi  iddnlntandh  sishtdh  Manv-ddi-vad  desa-kdld-viprakrishthm  vedam 
divya-jndnena  salcshatkarttum  saknuvanti  yena  sishfdchdro  mula-vedam 
anumdpayet  \ 

"  For  learned  men  of  the  present  day  do  not  possess  the  power, 
which  Manu  and  others  had,  of  placing  before  their  minds,  through 
divine  knowledge,  the  Veda  which  is  far  removed  from  them  both  in 
place  and  time,  so  as  to  justify  us  in  regarding  the  practice  of  these 
moderns  as  a  sufficient  ground  for  inferring  the  existence  of  a  Veda  as 
its  foundation." 

But  as  learned  men,  in  any  particular  country  or  at  any  particular 
time,  may  be  able  to  consult  some  Smriti  which  authorizes  their  par- 
ticular observance^,  "these  observances  may  serve  as  ground  for  infer- 
ring the  existence  of  some  Smriti  on  which  they  are  founded,  but  not 
for  inferring  a  Veda  (tasmdch  chhishtdchdrena,  smritir  anumutum  sakyate 
na  tu  srutih}.  But  a  Smriti  which  is  thus  merely  inferred  to  exist  is 
set  aside  by  any  visibly  existing  Smriti  of  contrary  import  (anumitd 
cha  smritir  v irudShayd  pratyakshayd  smrityd  Iddhyate)" 

IV.  S'ankara. — The  above  passages,  by  assuming  that  Manu  and 
other  eminent  sages  had  the  power  of  consulting  Vedic  texts  now  no 
longer  accessible,  make  them  practically  almost  infallible.  The  same 
view  is  taken  by  S'ankara  Acharyya.  (See,  however,  the  pp.ssage  quoted 
from  him  above,  in  note  67,  p.  62 ;  but  there  he  has  the  author  of  the 
Sankhya  in  view,  whose  tenets  he  regarded  as  contrary  to  the  Veda.) 
In  answer  to  the  remark  of  a  Mlmansaka  objector  stated  in  the  com- 
ment on  the  Brahma  Sutra  i.  3,  32,  that  the  Itihasas  atfd  Puranas, 
being  of  human  origin,  have  only  a  derived  and  secondary  authority 
('  itihdsa-purdnam  api  paurusheyatvdt<-pramdndntara-mulatdm  dkdn- 
JcsTiate '),  S'ankara  argues  in  his  explanation  of  the  following  Sutra  (i.  3, 
S3)  that  they  have  an  independent  foundation: 

Itihdsa-purdnam  api'vydkhydtena  margena  sambhavad  mantrdrthavdda- 


OF    THE    VEDAS,   HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  183 

I 

mulatvdt  pralhavati  devatd-vigrahddi  prapanchayitum  \  pratyaksha-mulam 
api  sambhavati  \  bhavati  hi  asmdkam  apratyalcsham  api  chirantandndm  pra- 
tyaksham  \  tathd  cha  Vydsddayo  d'evatdbhih  pratyakshaih  vyavaharantiiti 
smaryate  \  yas  tu  bruydd  iddriintandndm  ivapurveshdm  api  ndsii  devddibhir 
vyavaharttum  sdmarthyam  iti  sa  jagad-vaichitryam  pratishedet  \  iddnlm 
iva  cha  na  any  add,  'pi  sdrvabhaamah  kshatriyo  'sti  iti  brjlydt  tatas  cha  rdja- 
sut/dd^chodandh  tiparundhydt  \  iddnlm  'iva  cha  kdldntare  'py  avyavasthita- 
prdydn  varndsrami-dharmdr?pratijdriitattatas  cha  vyavasthd-vidhdyi  sds- 
tram  anarthakam  kurydt  \  Tasmdd  dharmotkarsha-vasdt  chirantandh  devd- 
dibhih  pratyaksham  vyajahrur  iti  ilishyate  \  api  cha  smaranti  "  svddhyd- 
yddishta-devatd-samprayogah  "  ityddi  \  yogo  'py  animady-aisvarya-prdpti- 
phalakah  smaryamdno  wa  sakyate  sdhasa-mdtrena  pratydkhydtum  \  srutis 
cha  yoga-mdhdtmyam  prakhydpayati  \  "  prithvy-ap-tejo-'nila-khe  samut- 
thite  panchdtmake  yoga-gune  pravritte  \  na  tasyo  rogo  najard  na  mrityuh 
prdptasya  yogdd  158  nimisham  sarlram"  iti  \  rishindm  api  mantra-lrdh- 
mana-darsindm  sdmarthyam  na  a&madiyena  sdmarthyena  upamdtum  yult- 
tarn  \  tasmdt  sa-mulam  itihdsa-purdnam  \ 

"  The  Itihasas  andPuranas  also,  having  originated  in  the  way  which 
has  been  explained,  have  power,  as  being  based  on  the  hymns  and 
arthavadas,  to  evince  the  corporeality,  etc.,  of  th«  gods.  It  is  also 
reasonable  to  suppose  that  they  are  founded  upon  intuition.  For  there 
were  things  palpable  through  intuition  to  the  ancients,  though  they  are 
not  thus  palpable  to  us.159  Accordingly  it  is  recorded  in  the  Smriti  that 
Vyasa  and  others  associated  fa<je  to  face  with  the  gods.160  Any  man 

158  Instead  of  yogad  nimisham  the  text  of  the  Biblioth.  Indica  reads  yogagnimayam 

159  See  above,  pp.  116,  118,  and  127;  and  also  Prof  Mliller's  article  on  the  Vais'e- 
shika  Philosophy  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  vol.  vii.  p.  311, 
where  it  is  remarked  that  the  Vais'eshikas,  like  Kapila,  include  the  intuition  of  rishis 
under  the  category  of  pratyaksha  (arsham  jnanani  sutra-krita  prithak  na  lakshi- 
tain  yogi-pratyakshe  'ntar-bhavat"). 

160  Compare  with  this  R.V.  i.  179,  2  :  Ye  chid  hi  purve  ritasapah  asan  sakam  deve- 
bhir  avadann  ritani  \  te  chid  avasur  ityadi  \  "  The  pious  sages  who  lived  of  old  and 
who  conversed  about  sacr^i  truths  with  the  gods,  —  they  led  a  conjugal  life,"  etc.  See 
also  the  passages  quoted  from  the  'Vana-parvan  of  the  MahEbharata,  the  S'atapatha 
Brahmana,  and  Plato  in  the  First  Volume  of  this  work,  p.  147  ;  and  compare  Hesiod, 
fragment  119:  l-vval  yap  r6re  Sairts  taav,  £vval  8e  BO&KOL  aQavaroiffi  8fo7cri  KO.TCI- 


"  Immortal  gods,  not  unfamiliar,  then 

Their  feasts  and  converse  shared  witlnmortal  men." 
And  Herodotus  writes  of  the  Egyptians,  ii.  144  :  To  5e  irp^repov  ruv  dvSpuv  rovruv 


184  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,    ETC., 

who  should  maintain  that  the  ancients,  like  his  own  contemporaries, 
were  destitute  of  power  thus  to  associate  with  superhuman  heings  like 
the  gods,  would  be  denying  all  variety  in  the  hist6ry  of  the  world. 
Such  a  person  would  in  like  manner  affirm, that  as  now  there  is  no 
Kshattriya  possessed  of  universal  sovereignty,  so  neither  was  there  ever 
such  a  prince ;  and  would  thus  impugn  the  scriptural  injunctions  re- 
garding the  rajasuya  sacrifice  [which  was  only  to  be  performed  by  a 
universal  monarch].  He  would  also  allege  that  m.  former  times,  as 
now,  the  dutes  of  castes  and  of  orders  were  scarcely  at  all  in  force,  and 
would  thus  render  fruitless  the  scriptures  by  which  the  rules  relating 
to  them  are  prescribed.  By  these  considerations  it  is  intimated  that  the 
ancients,  in  consequence  of  their  eminent  holiness,  were  admitted  to 
associate  immediately  with  the  gods,  etc.  And  'ihe  Smriti 161  says  that 
nearness  to,  and  converse  with  the  gods  is  gained  by  reading  the  Veda, 
etc.  Again,  when  the  Smriti  talks  of  the  practice  of  Yoga  resulting  in 
the  acquisition  of  superhuman  faculties,  such  as  minuteness,  this  asser- 
tion cannot  be  impugned  through  mere  audacity,  [i.e.  it  must  have 
had  some  good  foundation].  The  Veda,  too,  declares  the  immense 
power  of  devotion  in  these  words :  '  When  the  fivefold  influence  of 
Yoga,  connected  with  the  elements  of  earth,  water,  fire,  air,  and  aether, 
has  begun  to  act,  and  a  man  has  attained  an  aathereal  [or  fiery]  body, 
he  is  no  longer  affected  by  disease,  decay,  or  death.'  And  it  is  un- 
reasonable to  estimate,  by  the  analogy  of  our  own  power,  the  power  of 
the  rishis,  the  seers  of  the  Vedic  hymns  and  Brahmanas.  Wherefore 
the  Itihasas  and  Puranas  have  an  (independent)  foundation.'  " 

S'ankara  does  not,  however,  treat  all  the  ancients  in  this  way.  Like 
many  other  systematizers,  he  finds  no  difficulty  in  rejecting  or  explain- 
ing away  any  authorities  whi^h  come  into  conflict  with  his  views.  It 
is  thus  that  he  deals  with  Kapila,  the  author  of  the  Sankhya.  That 
eminent  sage  is  thus  spoken  of  in  the  S'vetasvatara  TJpanishad,  v.  2  : 

Yo  yonim  yonim  adhitishthaty  eko  visvani  rupuni  yonls  cha  sarvuh  \ 


Of oiis  fivai  TOVS  eV  'Aiyinrry  ,&pxovras,  oiKtovras  apa  -rolai  avdptiiiroiai,  "  And  [the 
Egyptian  priests  said]  that  before  these  men  the  gods  were  the  rulers  in  Egypt, 
dwelling  together  with  men."  <• 

161  It  appears  from  the  gloss  of  Govinda  Ananda  that  one  of  the  Toga  Sutras  is 
here  quoted,  I  give  the  sense  according  to  his  explanation  :  mantra-japad  deva-san- 
nidhyham  tat-sMnbhashanam  cha  iti  sutrarthah. 


OF    THE   VEDAS,    HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.          185 

rishim  prasutam  Kapilam  yas  tarn  agrejndnair  litharttijdyamdnam  cha 
pasyet  \  ,( 

"  The  god  who  alone  superintends  every  source  of  production  and 
all  forms,  .jvho  formerly  "nourished  with  various  knowledge  his  son  the 
rishi  Kapila,  and  beheld  him  at  his  birth,  etc."182 

Towards  the  tlose  of  his  comment  9n  Brahma  S'Rtras  ii.  1,  1,  which 
I  shaTl  cite  at  some  length.  S'ankara  makes  some  remarks  on  this  pas- 
sage of  .that  Upaifi.'ihad,  After  stating1  the  points  that  had  been  estab- 
lished id  the  first  Book  (adJiyaya]  of  the  Brahma  Sutras,  and  alluding 
to  the  objections  which  had  been  urged  against  the  Sankhya  and  other 
hostile  doctrines  as  contrary  to  the  Veda,  S'ankara  goes  on  to  explain 
the  object  of  the  second  book,  and  the  purport  of  the  aphorism  with 
which  it  begins,  as  follows  : 

Iddnlm  sva-pakshe  smriti-nydya-virodha-parihdrah  pradhdnddi-'Vddd- 
ndm  cha  nydydlhdsopalrimhitatvam  prativeddntam  srishty-ddi-prakri- 
ydydh  avigitatvam  ity  asya  artha-jdtasya  pratipddandya  dvitlyo'dhydyah 
drabhyate  \  tattra  prathamam  tdvat  smriti-virodham  upanyasya  pariha- 
rati  |  yad  uktam  Brahma  eva  sarvajnam  jagatah  Icdranam  tad  ayuktam  \ 
Icutah  "  smrity-anavakdsa-dosha-prasangdt "  |  smritis  cha  tantralchyd 
paramarsJii-pranltd  sishta-parigrihltd  \  anyds  cha  tad-anusdrinyah  smri- 
tayah  \  evam  saty  anavakdsdh  prasajyeran  \  tdsu  hy  achetanam  pradhd- 
nam  svatantram  jagatah  kdranam  upaniladhyate  \  Hanv-ddi-smritayas 
tdvach  chodand  -  lalcshanena  agnihotrddind  dharma  -jdtena  apekshitam 
artham  samarpayantyah  sdvakdfrih  bhavanti  asya  vttrnasya  asmin  kdle 
^nena  vidhdnena  upanayanam  Idrisas  cha  dchdrah  ittham  vedddhayanam 
ittham  samdvarttanam  ittham  saha- dharma- chdrinl-samyogah  iti  tathd 
purushdrthdms  chatur-varndsrama-dharmdn  ndnd-vidhdn  vidadhati  \  na 
evam  kdpilddi-smritlnam  anushtheye  vishaye  'vakdso  'sti  moksha-sddhanam 
eva  hi  samyag-darsanam  adhikritya  tdh  pranltdh  \  yadi  tattra  apy  ana- 
validsdh  syur  dnarthakyam  eva  dsdm  prasajyeta  \  tasmdt  tad-avirodhena 
veddntdh  vydkhydtavydh  \  katham  punar  "  ikshity-'ddibhyo  hetulhyo 
Srahma  ev<b  sarvajnam  ja'gatah  kdranam  ity  avadhdritah  sruty-arthah  \ 
"  smrity-anavakdsa-dosha-prasangena  "  punar  ahshipyate  \  lhaved  ayam 
andkshepah  sva-tantra-prajndndm  \  para-tantra-prajnds  tu  prdyena  jandh 

162  See  S'ankara's  commentary  on  this  passage  in  Bibl.  Ind.  vii.  351,  and  Dr.  Eb'er's 
translation,  p.  62,  with  the  note  ;  also  Dr.  Hall's  note  in  p.  19  of  the  urefifce  to  his 
edition  of  the  Sankhya  Sara,  in  the  Bibl.  Ind.  , 


186  OPINIONS   REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

svdtantryena  sruty-artiham  avadhdrayitum  asaknuvantah  prakhydta-pra- 
netrikdsu  smriti&hv  avalamberan  tad-lalena  cha  sruty-artham  pratipat- 
serann  asmat-krite  cha  vydkhydne  na  visvasyur  bahu-mdndt  smritlndm 
pranetrishu  \  kapila-pralhritlndm  cha  drsham  jndnam  apratibatam  sma- 
ryyate  srutis  cha  lhavati  "  rishim  prasutam  kapilam  yas  tarn  agre  jndnair 
bibhartti  jdyamdnam  cha  pasyed"  iti  \  tasmdd  na  eshdm'.natam  ayathdr- 
tham  sakyam  sambhdvayitum  \  tarkdvashtambhena  eha  te  'rtham  ptatish- 
thdpayanti  \  tasmdd  api  smriti-balena  veddntdh,  vyjihhyeyah  iti  punar 
dkshepah  I  tasya  si&iddltir  "  na  \  anya-smrity-anavakdsa-dosha-prasan- 
gdd  "  iti  \  yadi  smrity-anavakdsa-dosha-prasangena  Isvara-kdrana-vddah 
dkshipyeta  evam  apy  anydh  isvara-kdrana-vddinyah  smrityo  'navakdsdh 
prasajyeran  \  tdh  uddharishydmah  |  .  .  .  .  evam  cohekasah  smritishv  api 
Isvarah  kdranatvena  updddnatcena  cha  prakdsyate  \  smriti-lalena  pratya- 
vatishthamdnasya  smriti-lalena  eva  uttaram  pravakshydmi  ity  ato  ''yam 
anya-smrity-anavakdsa-doshopanydsah  \  darsitam  tu  srutlnam  zsvara- 
kdrana-vddam  prati  tdtparyyam  \  vipratipattau  cha  smritlndm  avasya- 
kartavye  'nyatara-parigrahe  'nyatarasydh  paritydge  cha  sruty-anusdrin- 
yah  smritayah  pramdnam  anapekshydh  itarah  \  tad  uktam  pramdna-la- 
kshane  "  virodhe  tv  anapekshaih  sydd  asati  hy  anumdndm"  iti  (Mimansa 
Sutras  i.  3,  3)  |  na  cha  atlndriydn  arthdn  srutim  antarena  kaschid  upa- 
labhate  iti  sakyam  sambhdvayitum  mmittdbhdvdt  \  sakyam  kapilddlndm 
siddhdndm  apratihata-jndnatvdd  iti  chet  \  na  \  siddher  api  sdpekshatvdt  \ 
dharmdnushthdndpekshd  hi  siddhih  sa  cha  dharmas  chodand-lakshanah  I 
tatas  cha  purva-siddhdyds  chodandydh  artho  na  paschima-siddha-purusha- 
vachana-vasena  atisankitum  sakyate  \  siddha-vyapdsraya-kalpandydm  api 
bahutvdt  siddhdndm  pradarsitena  prakdrena  smriti-mpratipattau  satydm 
na  sruti-vyapdsraydd  anyad  nirnaya-kdranam  asti  \  para-tantra-prajna- 
sya  api  na  akasmdt  smriti-visesha-vishayah  pakshapdto  yuktah  \  kasyachit 
kvachit  tu  pakshapdte  sati  purusha-mati-vaisvarupyena  tattvdvyasthdna- 
prasangdt  \  tasmdt  tasya  api  smriti-vipratipatty-upanydsena  sruty-anu- 
sdrdnanusdra-vivechanena  cha  san-mdrge  prajnd  sangrahamyd  \  Yd  tu 
srutih  Kapilasya  jndndtisayam  darsayantl  ptadursitd  na  fayd  sruti- 
mruddham  api  Kdpilam  matam  sraddhdtuih  sakyam  " Kapilam"  iti 
"  sruti-sdmdnya-mdtratvdd" l63  anyasya  cha  Kapilasya  Sagara-putrdndm 
prataptur  Vdsudeva-ndmnah  smarandt  \  anydrtha-darsanasya  cha  prdpti- 
rahitasyc  asddhakatvdt  \  *Bhavati  cha  anyd  Manor  mdhdtyam  prakhyd- 

• 

168  Mlmansa-sutra  i.  1,  31.     See  above,' pp.  78  f. 


•  OF    THE   VEDAS,  HELD    BY    INDIAN   AUTHORS.  187 

payantl  Srutir  "yad  vat  kincha  Manur  avadat  tad  bheshajam " 164  iti  \ 
Mamma  cha  (xii.  91)  "  sarva-bhuteshu  chdtmdnam  sarva-bhutdni  chat- 
mam'  |  samam  pasyann  dtma-ydfi  svdrdjyam  adhigachchhati"  iti  sarvdt- 
matva-dartanam  prasamsatd  Kdpilam  matam  nindyate  iti  gamy  ate  \  Ka- 
pilothi  na  sarvatmatva-darsapam  anumanyate  dtma-lheddbhyupagamdt  \ 
.,*...  atas  cha  dtma-lheda-kalpanayd  Jpi  KdpilUsya  tantrasya  veda- 
viruddhatvam  vedamfsdri-Jfanu-vachana-virudhatvam  cha  na  kevalaih  sva- 
tantraiprakriti-patikalpanayd  eveti  si'ddham  \  vedasya  hi  nirapeksham 
svdrthe  prdmanyam  raver  iva  rupa-vishaye  ptiru^W^vachasam  tu  muldn- 
tardpeksham  svdrthe  prdmanyam  vaktri-smriti-vyavahitam  cha  iti  vipra- 
karshah  \  tasmdd  veda-mruddhe  vishaye  smrity-anavakd£a-prasango  na 
doshah  \  * 

"  But  now  the  second  chapter  is  commenced  with  the  view  of  effect- 
ing the  following  objects,  viz.  (a]  to  refute,  in  our  own  favour,  the 
charge  of  contradicting  the  reasonings  of  the  Smriti,  to  shew  (b)  that 
the  doctrines  regarding  Pradhana,  etc.,  have  nothing  more  than  an  ap- 
pearance of  reason,  and  (c)  that  the  manner  in  which  the  subjects  of 
creation,  etc.,  are  treated  in  each  of  the  Upanishads  is  unimpeachable. 
First  of  all  then  the  author  states,  and  removes,  the  objection  of  con- 
trariety to  the  Smriti.  Our  opponents  urge  that  it  is  incorrect  to  say 
that  the  omniscient  Brahma  is  the  cause  of  the  world.  Why  ?  Because, 
(l)as  they  allege,  that  doctrine  'is  chargeable  with  the  objection  of  setting 
aside  the  Smriti  as  useless'(Br.  Sutra,  ii.  1, 1).  This  term '  Smriti'  denotes 
a  systematic  treatise  (tantra)  co'mposed  by  an  eminent  rishi,  and  received 
by  the  learned ;  and  there  are  other  Smritis  in  conformity  with  it.  And 
the  alleged  difficulty  is  that  (on  the  theory  that  Brahma  is  the  cause)  all 
these  would  be  set  aside  as  useless ;  since^they  propound  an  unconscious 
Pradhana  #s  the  self-dependent  cause  of  the  world.  The  Smritis  of 
Manu  and  others,  indeed,  which  affirm  that  by  means  of  the  agnihotra 
and  other  enjoined  ceremonies,  the  objects  desired  (by  those  who  practise 
these  rites)  will  be  accomplished,  will  still  retain  their  use,  viz.  of  pre- 
scribing the  objects  to'be  pursued,  viz.  the  various  duties  of  the  four 
castes  and  orders, — that  such  and  such  a  caste*  shall  be  initiated  at  such 
a  time  and  by  such  a  process,  and  shall  follow  such  and  such  a  mode  of 
life,  that  the  Yeda  is  to  be  studied,  that  the  cessation  of  study  is  to 
take  place,  and  that  union  with  a  woman  fol?owing  the  same»rites  is  to 
164  See  above,  p.  181,  and  the  First  Volume  of  this  -vork,  pp.  188,  and  510. 


188  OPINIONS    REGARDING   THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

celebrated,  in  such,  and  such  ways.  But  [on  the  hypothesis  of  Brahma 
being  the  creator]  no  such  room  is  left  for  the  Smritis  of  Kapila  and 
others,  on  the  ground  of  any  ceremonie?  to  be  performed  [in  conformity 
•with  their  prescriptions] ;  for  they  have  been  "composed  as  embodying 
perfect  systems  affording  the  means  of  final  liberation.  If  in  this 
respect  also  no  place'  be  left  for  them  the  difficulty  will1  arise  that  they 
are  quite  useless.  And  hence  the  conclusion  is  resfchefi.  that  the  TJpani- 
shads  should  be  interpreted  so  as1'  to  harmonize  witt'ftiem.  But,  such 
being  the  case,  howf  it  is  again  objected,  have  you  determined  on  the 
strength  of  the  reasons  furnished  by  the  texts  about  'beholding,'  etc., 
that  it  is  the  meaning  of  the  Yeda  that  Brahma  is  the  omniscient  cause 
of  the  world,  thus  exposing  yourself  to  the  charge  of  leaving  no  place 
for  the  Smriti  ?  Although  we  hold  that  this  charge  is  harmless  as  regards 
those  who  think  for  themselves ;  yet  men  have  for  the  most  part  no 
independent  opinion,  and  are  unable  by  an  unassisted  act  of  their  own 
judgment  to  determine  the  sense  of  the  Vedas,  and  will  consequently  lean 
upon  the  Smritis  composed  by  renowned  authors,  and  adopt  the  sense  of 
the  Vedas  which  they  enforce :  and  from  their  lofty  opinion  of  these  authors 
they  will  have  no  confidence  in  our  interpretations.  And  it  is  moreover 
urged  (2)  that  Kapila  and  the  others  are  declared  by  the  Smriti  to  have 
possessed  an  unobstructed  intuitive  (drska165")  knowledge;  and  there  is 
also  a  Yedic  text  to  the  effect  '  He  who  of  old  sustains  with  manifold 
knowledge  Kapila  when  he  is  produced,  and  beholds  him  when  born,'  etc. 
(S'vetasv.  Tip.  v.  2).  Consequently  theii-  doctrines  cannot  be  imagined 
to  be  untrue.  And  they  further  support  their  tenets  by  argument.  On 
these  grounds  also,  it  is  urged,  the  Upanishads  must  be  interpreted  by 
the  aid  of  the  Smritis.  The  questions  thus  raised  are  settled  by  the  con- 
cluding words  of  the  Sutra,  '  No ;  for  this  conclusion  is  vitiated  by  the 
objection  that  other  Smritis  would  in  this  way  be  rendered  useless.'  (1) 
If  the  doctrine  that  God  is  the  cause  of  the  world  is  chargeable  with 
the  objection  that  it  leaves  no  room  for  the  Smriti,  in  the  same  way  the 
difficulty  will  arise  (on  the  other  theory) 'that  otlier  texts  of  tf.ie  Smriti 
which  affirm  that  God  is'  the  cause  will  be  set  aside.  These  we  shall 
adduce."  After  quoting  some  passages,  ,S'ankara  proceeds:  "In  the 
same  manner  in  numerous  texts  of  the  Smriti  God  is  shewn  to  be  both 
the  instrumental  and  the1  material  cause.  I  must  answer  on  the 
165  Ser*  above,  pp.  116,  118,  and  127. 


.          OF  THE  VEDAS,   HELD   BY  INDIAN   AUTHORS.  189 

strength  of  the  Smriti  the  person  who  opposes  me  on  the  same  ground, 
and  so  I  just  indicate  this  objection  against  his  views  as  having  the 
effect  of  setting  aside  other  Smritis.     But  it  has  heen  shown  that  the 
sense  of  the»>Vedic  texts  is  in  favour  of  the  causality  of  God.     And 
since,  if  the  Smritis  are  at  variance  with  each  other,  we  must  of  neces- 
sity accept  the  ori'e  set  and  reject  the  other,  those  of  tfiem  which  are  con- 
formable to  the  Veda*  will  be  authoritative,  and  the  rest  will  deserve 
no  attention :  for  i£  &as  been  said  in  the'section  (of  the  Purva  Mimansa) 
on  proof  (i.  3,  3),  that  '  if  it  (the  Smriti)  be  cdntr,a^  (to  the  Veda)  it 
must  be  disregarded ;  but  if  there  be  no  (contrariety)  it  must  be  in- 
ferred (that  the  former  is  founded  on  the  latter).'    And  it  is  inconceiv- 
able that  anyone  should  discover  things  beyond  the  reach  of  the  senses 
without  the  aid  of  the  Veda,  since  the  means  of  doing  so  are  wanting. 
If  it  be  urged  that  we  can  conceive  such  discovery  (of  imperceptible 
things  without  the  help  of  the  Veda)  as  possible  in  the  case  of  Kapila 
and  other  perfect  persons  (siddhdnam"),  because  there  was  nothing  to 
obstruct  their  knowledge ; — we  reply,  No  ;  because  perfection  (siddhi ) 
is  dependent  upon  something  else,  viz.  on  the  practice  of  duty.     Now 
duty  is  defined  as  something  which  is  enjoined.     And  the  subject- 
matter  of  an  injunction  which  was  previously  promulgated  cannot  be 
called  into  doubt  on  the  strength  of  the  words  of  a  man  who  became 
perfect  at  a  subsequent  period.    And  even  on  the  supposition  that  con- 
fidence could  be  placed  in  such  'perfect'  persons,  yet,  as   they  are 
numerous,  and  as  such  a  mutual  contradiction  as  we  have  already 
pointed  out  exists  between  the  Smritis  of  different  'perfect'  persons, 
there  is  no  means  left  of  determining  the  truth,  but  reliance  on  the  Veda. 
Causeless  partiality  to  any  particular  Smriti,  on  the  part  even  of  a  man 
who  has  no  independent  opinion,  is  improper ;  but  if  anyone  ever  does 
exhibit  such  partiality,  the  charge  of  depriving  truth  of  all  fixity  at- 
taches to  his  procedure,  because  the  opinions  of  men  (which  he  takes 
as  the  standard  of  his  belief)  assume  all  sorts  of  forms.     Consequently 
his  judgment  also  should* be  directed  into  the  righkpath  by  indicating 
the  mutual  contradictions  between  the  different  Smritis,  and  by  dis- 
tinguishing those  of  them  which  are  conformable  to,  from  those  which 
are  at  variance  with,  the  Veda.    And  (2)  the  Vedic  text  which  has  been 
pointed  out,  showing  the  transcendent  character  of  Kapila' s  knowledge1, 
cannot  be  a  warrant  for  believing  the  doctrine  of  Kapila,  though  con- 


190  OPINIONS  REGARDING  THE  ORIGIN,  ETC., 

trary  to  the  Veda,  since  the  word  Kapila  '  has,  in  this  text,  a  general 
sense'  [applicable  to  others  besides  the  author  of  the  Sankhya]  (Mim. 
Sutra,  i.  1,  31),  and  another  Kapila  called  Vasudeva,  the  consumer  of 
Sagara's  sons,  is  also  mentioned  in  the  Smriti ;  and  since  tho  indication 
of  something  which  has  a  different  object  i,n  view,  and  is  therefore  irrele- 
vant to  the  matter  in  question,  can  prove  nothing.'186  1'here  is,  besides, 
another  text  of  the  Veda  which  sets  forth  th^  eminent  fliginity  of  Manu  in 
these  terms,  '  "Whatever  Manu  said  is  medicine/ 187«  'And  Manu — when 
he  employs  the  word?  (xii.  91),  '  He  who,  with  impartial  eye,  beholds 
himself  in  all  beings,  and  all  beings  in  himself,  thus  sacrificing  his 
own  personalty,  attains  to  ^lf-refulgence ; '  and,  by  saying  this  com- 
mends the  tenet  that  everything  is  one  with  the  supreme  Spirit — must 
be  understood  as  censuring  Kapila's  doctrine.  For  Kapila  does  not 
assent  to  the  identity  of  Brahma  and  the  universe,  since  he  holds  a 
diversity  of  souls."  .  .  .  (After  quoting  one  passage  from  the  Maha- 
bharata,  and  another  from  the  Veda,  to  prove  that  Kapila  is  wrong, 
S'ankara  proceeds) :  "  Hence  it  is  proved  that  Kapila's  system  is  at 
variance  with  the  Veda  and  with  the  words  of  Manu,  who  follows  the 
Veda,  not  only  in  supposing  an  independent  Prakriti  (nature),  but  also 
in  supposing  a  diversity  of  souls.  Now  the  Veda  has  an  independent 
authority  in  regard  to  its  own  contents,  as  the  sun  has  (an  inherent 
power)  of  manifesting  forms  ;  whilst  the  words  of  men  have,  as  regards , 
their  own  sense,  an  authority  which  is  dependent  on  another  source 
(the  Veda),  and  which  is  distinguished  (from  the  authority  of  the 
Veda)  by  the  fact  of  their  authors  being  remembered.  Consequently 
it  forms  no  objection  to  a  doctrine  that  it  sets  aside  a  Smriti  on  a  point 
which  is  contrary  to  the  Veda." 

166  The  words  thus  translated  are  explained  as  follows  in  the  Gloss  of  Govinda 
Ananda  :  Kincha  "yah  Kapilam  jnanair  bibhartti  tarn  Isvaram  pasyed"  iti  vidKiyatt 
tathii  cha  anyarthasya  Isvara-pratipatti-seshasya  Kapila-sarvajnatvasya  darsanam 
anuvadas  tasya  mdnantarena  prapti-sunyasya  svartha-sadhakatvayogad  na  anuvada- 
matrad  sarvajnaiva-siddhir  iiy  aha  \  "  And  it*is  enjoined  (in  the  text  of  the  S'veta- 
s'vatara  Upanishad) :  '  Let  him  behold  that  Is'vara  who  nourishes  Kapila  with  various 
knowledge ; '  and  so  since  this  '  indicatioli '  of,  this  reference  to,  the  omniscience  of 
Kapila,  which  has  another  object  in  view,  and  er.ds  in  the  establishment  of  an  Is'vara, 
and  which  on  other  grounds  is  shewn  to  be  irrelevant,  cannot  prove  its  own  meaning, 
—•this  mere  reference  does  nr>t  suffice  to  evince  Kapila's  omniscience  : — This  is  what 
S'ankara 'means  to  say." 

167  See  the  First  Volume' of  this  work,  pp.  188  and  510. 


„  OF  THE  VEDAS,   HELD  BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  191 

See  also  S'ankara's  commentary  on  the  Taittinya  TJpanishad,  Bib. 
Ind.  vii.  pp.  136,  137,  where  h<?  says  : 

Kdpila-kdnddddi-tarka-sdstra-virodhah  iti  chet  \  no,  \  teshdm  muld- 
bhdve  vedawirodhe  cha  Wfrdntyopapatteh  \ 

"  If  it  be  objected  that  this  is  contrary  to  the  rationalistic  doctrines 
of  Kapila  and  Kanada  [and  therefore  .wrong],  I  answer  no,  since  these 
doctrines  are  proved*  to  be^  erroneous,  as  having  no  foundation,  and  as 
being  in  oppositioEdto  the  Veda." 

His  remarks  on  a  passage  of  the  Prasna  tTpanishad,  which  are  as 
follows,  afford  a  curious  specimen  of  the  contemptuous  manner  in  which 
this  orthodox  Yedantist  treats  the  heretical  Sankhyas,  etc.  (Prasna  Up. 
vi.  4;  Bib.  Ind.  viii.*244) : 

Sdnkhyds  tu  avidyd- dhydropitam  eva  purushe  karttritvam  kriyd-kdra- 
Icam  phalam  cha  iti  kalpayitvd  dgama-vdhyatvdt  punas  tatas  trasyantaa 
paramdrthatah  eva  Ihoktritvam  purushasya  ichchhanti  \  tattvdntaram  cha 
pradhdnam  purushdt  paramdrtha-vastu-bhutam  eva  kalpayanto  'nya-tdr- 
kika-krita-luddhi-vishaydh  santo  vihanyante  \  Tathd  itare  tdrkikdh  sdn- 
khyair  ity  evam  paraspara-viruddhdrtha-kalpandtah  dmishdrthinah  iva 
prdnino  'nyonyani  viruddhamdndh  artha-dar£itvdt  paramdrtha-tattvdt 
tad-duram  eva  apakrishyante  \  atas  tan-matam  anddritya  veddntdrtha- 
tattvam  ekatca-darsanam  prati  ddaravanio  mumukshavah  syur  iti  tdrkika- 
mate  dosha-darsanam  kinchid  uchyate  'smdbhir  na  tu  tdrkika-tdtparyyena  \ 

11  The  followers  of  the  Sankhya  imagine  that  the  functions  of  action, 
and  the  enjoyment  of  reward  which  causes  action,  become  erroneously 
attributed  to  the  soul  (purusha)  in  consequence  of  supervening  ignorance ; 
but  as  this  doctrine  differs  from  that  of  Scripture,  they  become  afraid  of 
it,  and  seek  to  ascribe  to  the  soul  enjoyment  in  the  proper  sense.  And 
supposing  a/iother  principle  distinct  from  soul,  viz.  Pradhana  (or  na- 
ture), which  they  regard  as  substance  in  the  proper  sense,  they  become 
the  objects  of  correction  by  other  rationalists,  and  are  crushed.  Thus, 
in  consequence  of  the  contrariety  between  the  conceptions  of  the  San- 
khyas ancb  those  of  other  freethinkers,  the  two  parties  quarrel  with 
each  other  like  animals  fighting  for, flesh ;  and  thus,  from  their  having 
an  (exclusive)  regard  to  (thevr  own)  views,  they  are  all  drawn  away 
to  a  distance  from  the  essential  truth.  "Wherefore  let  men,  disregarding 
their  tenets,  seek  for  final  liberation  by  paying'honour  to  the  principles 

of  the  Yedantic  doctrine,  which  maintains  the  inity  of  all  being.     Ve 

•  • 


192  OPINIONS  EEGARDING  THE  ORIGIN,  ETC., 

have  thus  pointed  out  something  of  the  errors  of  the  rationalists,  and 
have  said  nothing  in  accordance  with  their  views." 

IV. — In  thus  depreciating  Kapila,  Simkara  is  in  direct  opposition  to 
the  Bhagavata  Purana  (which,  however,  may  be  a  work  of  later  date 
than  his168),  in  which  the  author  of  the  Sajnkhya  is  spoken  of  with  the 
greatest  reverence.  Thus  in  Bh?g.  Pur.  i.  3,  10,  he  "is  described  as 
the  fifth  incarnation  of  Vishnu  : 

Panchamah  Kapilo  ndma  siddhesah  Tcala-viplutar .  \  provachasuraye 
sankhyam  tattva-gramarmnirnayam  \ 

"  In  his  fifth  manifestation,  he  [in  the  form  of]  Kapila,  and  lord  of 
saints,  declared  to  Asuri  the  Sankhya  which  defines  the  series  of  prin- 
ciples, and  which  had  been  lost  through  the  lapse  of  time." 

And  again,  in  Bhag.  Pur.  ix.  8,  12,  13,  Kapila  is  made  the  subject 
of  eulogy.  A  legend  narrates  that  the  sixty  thousand  sons  of  king 
Sagara,  conceiving  Kapila  to  be  the  robber  of  a  horse  which  had  been 
carried  away  from  their  sacrifice,  advanced  to  slay  him,  when  they 
were  burnt  up  by  fire  issuing  from  his  body.  The  author  of  the 
Purana,  however,  denies  that  this  was  in  any  degree  owing  to  passion 
on  the  part  of  the  sage : 

Na  sudhu-vddo  muni-kopa-lharjitdh  nripendra-putrdh  iti  sattva-dhd- 
mani  \  katham  tamo  ro&hamayam  vilhdvyate  jagat-pavitrdtmani  khe  rajo 
bhuvah  \  yasyeritd  sdnkhyamayi  dridheha  naur  yayd  mumukshus  tarate 
duratyayam  \  lhavdrnavam  mrityu-patham  vipaschitah  pardtma-bhutasya 
katham  prithanmatih  \ 

"It  is  not  an  assertion  befitting  a  good  man  to  say  that  the  king's 
sons  were  burnt  up  by  the  wrath  of  the  sage ;  for  how  is  it  conceivable 
that  the  darkness  (tamas)  of  ,anger  should  reside  in  the  abode  of  good- 
ness (sattva\  or  that  the  dust  (or  passion,  rajas]  of  the  earth  should 
ascend  into  the  sky,  the  region  of  purity  ?  How  could  that  sage,  one 
with  the  supreme  Spirit,  by  whom  the  strong  ship  of  the  Sankhya  was 
launched,  on  which  the  man  seeking  emancipation  crosses  the  ocean 
of  existence,  hard  to*  be  traversed,  and  leading  to  death, — how  could  he 
entertain  the  idea  of  any  distinction  between  himself  and  others  [and 
so  treat  any  one  as  an  enemy]  ? "  „ 

It  is  not  necessary  for  me  to  quote  any  further  passages  in  praise  of 
the  author  gf  the  Sankhya.  There  is  a  great  deal  about  this  system 
168  See  Wilson's  Vish.  Pur.,  preface,  pp.  xliv.  and  ii. 


OF    THE   VEDAS,   HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  193 

in  the  Mahabharata,  S'antiparvan,  verses  ll,037ff.  See  Colebrooke's 
Essays,  i.  236  (p.  149  of  Williams  and  Norgate's  ed.) ;  Wilson's  Vishnu 
Parana,  pref.  p.  xclv.  and  text,  ppt.  18  ff.  with  notes;  Bhagavata  Purana, 
iii.  chapter,^  24-30 ;  "Weber's  Ind.  Stud,  passim ;  Dr.  Rb'er's  Introduc- 
tion to  S'vetasvatara  Upanishad,  Bibl.  Ind.  xv.  35  if. ;  and  Dr.  Hall's 
preface  to  the  Simkhya-sara  in  the  Bibl.  Ind.  p.  19,»note. 

"We'have  thus  seen  .that  a  distinct  line  qf  demarcation  is  drawn  by 
the  most  accurate  arid  critical  of  the  Indian  writers,  between  the  S'ruti, 
which  they  define  to  be  superhuman  and  independent,  and  the  Smriti, 
which  they  regard  as  of  human  origin,  and  as  dependent  for  its  author- 
ity on  its  conformity  with  the  S'ruti.  S'ankara,  indeed,  as  we  have  also 
observed  (above,  p.  183£),  goes  very  nearly,  if  not  altogether,  so  far  as 
to  assign  an  independent  foundation  to  the  Smritis ;  but  he  confines  this 
distinction  to  such  of  these  works  as  coincide  in  doctrine  with  the  S'ruti 
or  Veda,  according  to  his  own  Vedantic  interpretation  of  its  principles, 
while  all  other  speculators  are  denounced  by  him  as  heterodox.  It  is, 
however,  clear  from  the  S'vetasvatara  Upanishad,  the  Mahabharata,  the 
Bhagavad  Gita,  the  Vishnu,  and  the  Bhagavata  Puranas,  etc.,  that  the 
doctrines  of  the  Sankhya  must  have  been  very  prevalent  in  ancient 
times,  and  that  S'ankara,  when  he  condemned  them  as  erroneous,  must 
have  done  so  in  the  face  of  many  powerful  opponents.169 

169  I  quote  the  following  passage  from  Dr.  Bb'er's  Introduction  to  the  S'vetasvatara 
Upanishad,  pp.  36 f.  :  "At  the  time  of  the  composition  of  the  S'w  etas' watara,  the 
Sankhya  was  not  a  new  system,  which  had  to  overcome  the  resistance  of  old  received 
opinions,  and  the  prejudices  of  men  in  power,  whose  interest  might  be  opposed  to  the 
introduction  of  a  doctrine  by  which  their  authority  could  be  questioned.  It  had 
found  many  adherents;  it  was  the  doctrine  of  Manu,  of  some  parts  of  the  Maha- 
bharata, and  to  its  founder  divine  honour  had  been  assigned  by  general  consent.  It 
was  a  doctrine  whose  argumentative  portion  demanded  respect,  and  as  it  was  admitted 
by  many  Bramhans  (sic),  distinguished  for  their  knowledge  of  the  Vedas,  it  could  not 
be  treated  as  a  heresy.  The  most  learned  and  eminent  of  the  Bramhans  were  evidently 
divided  among  themselves  with  reference  to  the  truth  of  the  Sankhya  and  Vedanta, 
and  this  must  have  afforded  to  the  opponents  of  the  Vedaic  system  a  most  powerful 
weapon  for  attacking  the  'Sedas  themselves.  If  both  the  Sankhya  and  Vedanta  are 
divine  revelations,  both  must  be  true ;  'but  if  the  doctrine  of  the  one  is  true,  the  doc- 
trine of  the  other  is  wrong  ;  for  they  are  contradictory  among  themselves.  Further, 
if  both  are  derived  from  the  Yedas,  it  is  evident  that  also  the  latter  cannot  rereal  the 
truth,  because  they  would  teach  opposite  opinions  about  one  and  the  same  point.  Such 
objections  to  the  Vedas  had  been  made  already  in  ancient  times,  as  is  clear  from  the 
Upanishads,  from  several  passages  of  Manu,  from  Yaska,  etc. ;  and  under  |hese  cir- 
cumstances it  cannot  be  wondered  at,  if  early  attempts  were  made  to  '^reconcile  the 

13 


194  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

It  is  not  necessary  for  me  here  to  inquire  with  any  accuracy  what 
the  relation  was  in  which  the  different  philosophical  systems  stood  to 
each  other  in  former  ages.  It  may  sufftce  to  say  that  the  more  thorough- 
going adherents  of  each — of  the  Vedanta,  the  Sankhya,  ,the  Nyaya, 
etc. — must,  according  to  all  appearance,  have  maintained -their  respec- 
tive principles  with  the  utmost  earnestness  and  tenacity,  and  could  not 
have  admitted  that  any  of  .the  rival  systems  was  superior  to  their  own 
in  any  particular.  It  is  impossible  to  study  the^utras  of  th#  several 
schools,  and  come  to  any  other  conclusion.  The  more  popular  systems 
of  the  Puranas,  on  the  other  hand,  blended  various  tenets  of  the  dif- 
ferent systems  syncretically  together.  In  modern  times  the  superior 
orthodoxy  of  the  Yedanta  seems  to  be  generally  admitted.  But  even 
some  who  hold  this  opinion  refuse  to  follow  the  example  of  S'ankara  in 
denouncing  the  founders  of  the  rival  schools  as  heretical.  On  the  con- 
trary, they  regard  them  all  as  inspired  Munis,  who,  by  adapting  their 
doctrines  to  the  capacities  or  tendencies  of  different  students,  have 
paved  the  way  for  the  ultimate  reception  of  the  Vedantic  system. 
Such  is  the  view  taken  in  the  Prasthana-bheda  of  Hadhusudana  Saras- 
vati,  who  gives  the  following  lucid  summary  of  the  leading  principles 
of  the  different  schools  of  speculation  ("Weber's  Indische  Studien,  i.  23) : 

Sarveshdm  cha  sankshepena  trividhah  eva  prasthdna-bhedah  \  tatra 
drambha-vddah  ekah  \  parindma-vddo  dvitlyah  \  vivartta-vddas  tritiyah  \ 
pdrthivtipya-taijasa-vdyavlyds  chaturvidhdh  paramdnavo  dvy-anukddi- 
kramena  Irahmdnda-paryantam  jagad  drambhante  \  asad  eva  kdryyam 
kdraka-vydpdrdd  utpadyate  iti  prathamas  tdrkikdndm  mlmdmsa- 
kdndm  cha  \  sattva  -  rajas  -  tamo  -  gunatmakam  pradhdnam  eva  mahad- 
ahankdrddi  -  kramena  jagad-dkdrena  parinamate  \  purvam  api  sukshma- 
rupena  sad  eva  ktiryam  kdrana-vydpdrena  abhtryajyate  iti  dvitiyah 
pakshah  Sankhya -Yoga  -  Pdtanjala  -  Pdsupatdndm  \  Jlrahmanah  pari- 
namo  jagad,  iti  Yaishntivdndm  \  sva-prakdsa-paramdnandddvitiyam  Brah- 
ma sva-mdyd-vasdd  mithyaiva  jagad-dkdrena  kalpate  iti  tritiyah  paksho 

1  H 

tenets  of  the  Vedanta  and  Sankhya  to  save  the  uniformity  of  the  doctrine,  and 
therebv  the  sacredness  of  the  Vedas  as  Jhe  Scriptures  derived  from  the  immediate 
revelation  of  God.  So,  for  instance,  it  is  recorded  that  Vyasa,  the  reputed  author  of 
the  Bramha  Sutras,  wrote  also  a  commentary  to  Patanjali's  Yoga-s'astra,  which  is  still 
extant  under  his  name.  In  the  same  manner  composed  Gaudapilda,  the  eminent 
Vedantisv,  and  teacher  of  S'ankara's  teacher,  Govinda,  a  commentary  to  Is'vara 
Krishna's  Sankhya  Karika.-  and  the  Bhagavad  Gita  has  also  the  same  object." 


OF    THE    VEDAS,    HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.          195 

Brahma-vddinum  \  sarvesJidm  prasthdna-karttrlndm  muriindm  vivartta- 
vdda-paryavasdnena  advitiye  Paramesvare  eva  pratipddye  tdtparyam  \  na 
hi  te  munayo  Ikruntdh  sarvajnatydt  teshdm  \  kintu  vahir-vishaya-prava- 
ndntim  apqtatah  purushirthe  praveso  na  samlhavati  iti  ndstikya-vdra- 
ndya  taih  pralcdra-lheddh  pradarsitdh  \  tatra  teshdm  tdtparyam  abuddhvd 
veda-viruddhe  'py  arihe  tdtparyam  utprekshamdnds*  tan-matam  eva  upti- 
deycwbena  grihnanio  y'andh  ndnd-patha-jusho  lhavanti  \  iti  sarvam  ana- 
vadyam9\  >  ,&  , 

"  The  difference  in  principle  between  these  various  schools  is,  when 
briefly  stated,  three-fold.  The  first  doctrine  is  that  of  a  commencement 
of  the  world ;  the  second  is  that  of  an  evolution ;  the  third  is  that  of 
an  illusion.  Atoms  o'f  four  descriptions — earthy,  aqueous,  igneous,  and 
aerial — beginning  with  compounds  of  two  atoms,  and  ending  in  the 
egg  of  Brahma  (the  world),  originate  the  universe  :  and  effects,  pre- 
viously non-existent,  come  into  being  from  the  action  of  a  causer.  This 
is  the  first  theory,  that  of  the  Logicians  and  Mimansakas.  The  second 
theory,  that  of  the  Sankhyas,  Yogas,  Patanjalas,  and  Pasupatas,  is  that 
Pradhdna  (or  Prahriti  •=.  nature),  consisting  of  the  three  gunas  (quali- 
ties), sattva,  rajas,  and  tamas,  is  evolved,  through  the  successive  stages 
of  maliat  (intellect),  and  ahankdra  (consciousness),  etc.,  in  the  form  of 
the  world ;  and  that  effects,  which  had  previously  existed  in  a  subtile 
form,  are  [merely]  manifested  by  the  action  of  their  cause.  Another 
form  of  this  theory  is  that  of  the  Vaishnavas  [the  Ramanujas],  who 
hold  the  universe  to  be  an  evolution  of  Brahma.  The  third  view,  that 
of  the  Brahma-vadins  (Vedantists),  is,  that  Brahma,  the  self-resplen- 
dent, the  supremely  happy,  and  the  one  sole  essence,  assumes,  unreally, 
the  form  of  the  world  through  the  influence  of  his  own  illusion  (Maya). 

The  ultimate  scope  of  all  the  Munis,  authors  of  these  different  sys- 
tems, is  to  support  the  theory  of  illusion,  and  their  only  design  is  to 
establish  the  existence  of  one  Supreme  God,  the  sole  essence ;  for  these 
Munis  could  not  be  mistaken  [as  some  of  them  must  have  been,  if 
they  were  not  all  of  vJne1  opinion,  or,  as  those  of  them  must  have  been 
who  did  not  hold  Vedantic  principles],  since,  they  were  omniscient. 
But  as  they  saw  that  men,  addicted  to  the  pursuit  of  external  objects, 
could  not  all  at  once  penetrate  into  the  highest  truth,  they  held  out  to 
them  a  variety  of  theories,  in  order  that  they  m%ht  not  fall  into^theism . 
Misunderstanding  the  object  which  the  Munis, thus  had  in  view,  and 


196  OPINIONS    EEGAEDING   THE   OEIGIN,    ETC., 

representing  that  they  even  designed  to  propound  doctrines  contrary 
to  the  Vedas,  men  have  come  to  regard  the  specific  doctrines  of  these 
several  schools  with  preference,  and  thjis  become  adherents  of  a  variety 
of  systems.  Thus  all  has  been  satisfactorily  stated."  „, 

I  find  that  VijnanaBhikshu,  the  commentator  on  the  Sankhya  aphor- 
isms, takes  very  nearly  the  sameoview  as  is  here  quoted  from  Madhu- 
sudana  Saras  vati,  in  regard  to  the  superiority  of  the  "Brahma  Mimansa 
or  Vedanta  over  the  other  Darsatas.  „ 

In  his  Sankhya-pravachana-bhashya  (Bibliotheca  Indica,  pp.  3  ff.), 
he  thus  writes : 

Sydd  etat  \  Nydya-vaisekikdbhydm  atra  avirodJio  lhavatu  \  brahma- 
mlmdmsd-yogdbhydm  tu  virodho  'sty  eva  \  tdbhydwi  nityesvara-sddhandt  \ 
atra  cha  Isvarasya  pratishidhyamdnatvdt  \  na  cHa  atrdpi  vydvahdrika- 
pdramdrthika-lhedena  sesvara-nirisvara-vddayor  avirodho  'stu  sesvara- 
vddasya  updsand-paratva-sambhavdd  iti  vdchyam  \  vinigamakdbhdi-dt  \ 
i£varo  hi  durjneyah  iti  nirlsvaratvam  api  loka-vyavahdra-siddham  aisva- 
ryya-vairdgydya  anuvaditum  sakyate  dtmanah  sagunatvam  iva,  \  na  tu 
kvdpi  sruty-dddv  Isvarah  sphutam  pratishidhyate  yena  sesvara-vddasyaiva 
vydvahdrikatvam  avadhdryeta  iti  \  atra  uchyate  \  atrdpi  vydvahdrika- 
pdramdrthika  -  Ihdvo  lhavati  \  "asatyam  apratishtham  te  jagad  dhur 
anisvaram"  ityddi-sdstrair  nirlsvara-vddasya  ninditatvdt  \  asminn  eva 
sdstre  vydvahdrikasyaiva  pratishedhasya  aisvaryya-vairdgyddy-artham 
anuvddatvauchitydt  \  yadi  hi  laukdyatika-matdnusdrena  nityaisvaryyam 
na  pratishidhyeta  tadd  paripurna-nitya-nirdoshaisvaryya-darsanena  tatra 
chittdvesato  vivekdbhydsa  - pratibandhah  sydd  iti  sdnkhydchdryydndm 
dsayah  \  sesvara-vddasya  na  kvdpi  nindddikam  asti  yena  updsanddi-para- 
tayd  tat  sdstram  sankochyeta  \  yat  tu  "  ndsti  sdnkhya-samam  jndnam 
ndsti  yoga-samam  lalam  \  atra  vah  samsayo  md  bhuj  jndnam  sankliyam 
param  smritam"  ityddi  vdkyam  tad-vivekdmse  eva  sdnkhya-jndnasya  dar- 
sandntarebJiyah  utkarsham  pratipddayati  na  tv  lsva/ra-pratisheddmse  'pi  \ 
tathd  Pardsarddy-akhila-sishta-samvdddd  api  sesvara-vddasyaiva  pdra- 
mdrthikatvam  avadh/iryate  \  api  cha  "-Akshafada-pranlte  cjia  Kdndde 
sdnkhya-yogayoh  \  tydjyah  sruti-virudho  'msah  smty-eka-saranair  nri- 
bhih  |  Jaiminlye  cha  Vaiydse  virudhdmso  na  kaschana  \  srutyd  reddrtha- 
vijndne  sruti-pdram  gatau  hi  tdv "  iti  Pardsaropapurdnddilhyo  'pi 
Irahma-inimdmsdydh  isvardmse  lalavattvam  \  yathd  \  "  nydya-tantrdny 
anekdni  tais  tair  uktdni  vddibhih  |  hetv-dgama-saddchdrair  yad  yuHam 


,  OF    THE    VEDAS,   HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  197 

tad  updsyatdm"  iti  moksha-dharma-vdkydd  api  Pard&arddy-akhila-iishta- 
vyavahdrena  Irahma-mimdmsd-nndya-vaiseshikddy-uktah  isvara-sddhaka- 
nydyah  eva  grdhyo  lalavattvdt  \  tathd  \  "Yam  na  pasyanti  yoglndrdh 
sdnkhydh  npi  mahesvardm  \  anddi-nidhanam  brahma  tarn  eva  iaranam 
vraja"  ityddi-kaurmddi-vdknaih  sdnkhydndm  livardjndnasyaiva  ndrdya- 
nddind  proktatvdch  cha  \  kincJia  hrahmy-mimdmsdydh  Isvarah  eva  mukhyo 
vishayah  upakramtidtfbhir  avcidhritah  \  tatrdmse  tasya  bddhe  sdstrasyaiva 
aprdmanyam  sydt  \t" yat-parah  sabdaKsa  £abddrthah"  iti  nydydt  \  sdn- 
khya-sdstrasya  tu  purushdrtha-tat-stidhana-prakrMi-purusha-vivekdv  eva 
mukhyo  vishayah  \  iti  Uvara-pratishedhdmsa-lddhe  'pi  na  aprdmdnyam  \ 
"Yat-parah  sdbdah  sa  £abddrthah"  iti  nydydt  \  atah  sdvakdsatayd  sdn~ 
khyam  eva  isvara-pratitfhedhdmse  durbalam  iti  \  na  cha  Irahma-mimdm- 
sdydm  api  Isvdrah  eva  mukhyo  vishayo  na  tu  nityaisvaryam  iti  vaktum 
sakyate  \  "smrity-anavakdsa-dosha-prasanga"-rupa-purva-pakshasya  anu- 
papattyd  nityaisvaryya-visishtatvena  eva  Irahma-mlmdmsd-vishayatvdva- 
dhdrandt  \  lrahma-£abdasya  para- Irahmany  eva  mukhyatayd  tu  "athdtah 
para-lrahma-jijndsd  "  iti  na  sutritam  iti  \  etena  sdnkhya-virodhdd  brah- 
ma-yoga-darsanayoh  kdryyesvara-paratvam  api  na  idnkamyam  \  prakriti- 
svdtantrydpattyd  " rachandnupapattes  cha  na  anumdnam"  ityddi  brahma- 
sutra-parampard- nupapattei  cha  \  tathd  "  sa  purveshdm  api  guruhkdlena 
anavachchheddd"  itiyoga-sutra-tadlya-vydsa-hhdshydbhydm  sphutam  Isa- 
nityatdvagamdch  cha  iti  \  tasmdd  abhyupagama-vdda-praudhi-vddddind 
eva  sdnkhyasya  vydvahdrikefaara-pratishedha-paratayd  brahma-mlmdmsd- 
yogdlhydih  saha  na  virodhah  \  alhyupagama-vddas  cha  sdstre  drishtah  \ 
yathd  Vishnu-purdne  (i.  17,  54)  |  "Ete  bhinna-drisdm  daitydh  vikalpdh 
kathitdh  mayd  \  kritva^hhyupagamam  tatra  sankshepah  sruyatdm  mama  "  | 
iti  \  astu  vd  pdpindm  jndna-pratilandh'drtham  dstika-darsaneshv  apy 
amsatah  sruti-vimddhdrtha-vyavasthdpanam  teshu  teshv  am£eshv  apra- 
mdnyam  cha  \  iruti  -  smrity  -  aviruddheshu  tu  mukhya  -  vishayeshu  prd- 
mdnyam  asty  eva  \  atah  eva  Padma-purdne  6rahma-yoga-darsandti- 
riktdndih  darsandndm  nindd  'py  upapadyate  \  Yathd  tatra  Pdrvatlm 

I> 

prati  Isvara-vdJeyam  \  *l srinu^  devi  pravakshydmi '  tdmasdni  yathd-kra- 
mam  \  yeshdm  sravana-mdtrena  pdtjtyam  jndnindm  api  \  prathamam  hi 
mayaivoktam  S'aivam  Pdsupatdjlikam  \  mach-chhakty-dvesitair  vipraih  sam- 
proktdni  tatah  param  \  ffanddena  tu  samproktam  sdstram  vaiieshikam 
mahat  \  Gautamena  tathd  nydyam  sdnkhyam  lu  Kapilena  yai*\  dvijan- 
mand  Jaiminind  purvaih  vedamaydrthatah  \  nirlsvarena  vddena  kritam 


198  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

sdstram  mahattaram  \  Dhishanena  tathd  proJctam  chdrvdkam  ati-garhi- 
tam  |  daitydndm  ndsandrthdya  Vishnunrl  Buddha-rupi^d  \  lauddha-sds- 
tram  asat  proktam  nagna-nlla-patddikafii  \  mdyd-vddam  asach-chhdstram 
prachchhannam  lauddham  eva  cha  \  mayaiva  kathitam  devi  kblau  brdh- 
mana-rupind  \  apdrtham  sruti-vdkydndm  darsayat  loka-garhitam  \  .kar- 
ma-svarupa-tydjyatvam  atra  cha  jsratipddyate  \  sarva-~karma-paribhrnr'(- 
sdd  naishkarmyam  tatra  chochyate  \  pardtmf-juayor  *aikyam  may  a  'tra 
pratipddyate  \  Irahmano  ^sya  par  am  rupam  nirglinaZi  darsitam  *mayd  \ 
sarvasya  jagato  'py  asya  ndsandrthafq  Jcalau  yuge  \  veddrthavad  mahdsds- 
tram  mdyd-vddam  avaidikam  \  mayaiva  kathitam  devijagatdm  ndsa-kdra- 
ndd"  iti  \  adhikam  tu  Irahma-mlmdmsd-bhdshye prapanchitam  asmdlhir 
iti  |  tasmdd  dstika-sdstrasya  na  kasydpy  aprdmanyam  virodho  vd  sva- 
sva-vishayeshu  sarveshdm  abddhdt  avirodhdch  cha  iti  \  nanv  evam  purusha- 
bahutvdmse  'py  asya  sdstrasya  abhyupagama-vddatvam  sydt  \  na  sydt  I 
avirodhdt  \  Irahnia-mlmdihsdydm  apy  " amso  ndnd-vyapadesdd"  ityddi- 
sutra-jdtairjlvdtma-lahutvasyaiva  nirnaydt  \  sdnkhya-siddha-purushdndm 
dtmatvam  tu  Irahma-rnimdmsayd  Iddhyate  eva  \  " dtmd  iti  tu  upayanti" 
iti  tat-sutrena  paramdtmanah  eva  paramdrtha-lhumdv  dtmatvdvadhd- 
randt  \  tathdpi  cha  sdnkhyasya  na  aprdmanyam  \  vydvahdrikdtmano 
jivasya  itara-viveka-jndnasya  moksha-sddhanatve  vivaJcshitdrthe  Iddhd- 
Ihdvdt  |  etena  sruti-smriti-prasiddhayor  ndndtmaikdtmatvayor  vydvahd- 
rika-pdramdrthika-lhedena  avirodhah  \ 

"Be  it  so:  let  there  be  here  no  discrepancy  with  the  Nyaya  and 
Vaiseshika.  But  it  will  be  said  that  th'e  Sankhya  is  really  opposed  to 
the  Brahma-mimansa  (the  Vedanta)  and  the  Yoga  [of  Patanjali] ;  since 
both  of  these  systems  assert  an  eternal  Isvara  (God),  while  the  Sankhya 
denies  such  an  Isvara.  And.  it  must  not  be  said  (the  same  persons 
urge)  that  here  also  [as  in  the  former  case  of  the  ft"yayafand  Yaise- 
shika],  owing  to  the  distinction  between  practical  [or  conventional,  or 
regulative]  and  essential  truths,  there  may  be  no  [real]  contrariety 
between  the  theistic  and  the  atheistic  theories,  inasmuch  as  the  theistic 
theory  may  possibly'have  a  view  to  devotion  [and  may  therefore  have 
nothing  more  than  a  practical  end  ?n  view] ; — you  are  not,  it  will  be 
said,  to  assert  this,  as  there  is  nothing  to  lead  to  this  conclusion  [or, 
distinction].  For  as  Isvara  is  difficult  to  be  krifcwn,  the  atheistic  theory 
also,  which  js  founded  on  popular  opinion,  may,  indeed,  be  adverted  to 
for  the  purpose  of  inspiring  indifference  to  the  conception  of  a  Deity> 


j  OF    THE  VEDAS,   HELD   B5T   INDIAN   AUTHORS.  199 

(just  as  it  is  [conventionally]  asserted  that  soul  has  qualities) ;  but 
neither  the  Veda,  nor  any  other  sastra  contains  a  distinct  denial  of 
an  Isvara,  by  which  the  merely  -practical  [or  conventional]  character  of 
the  theistifc  theory  could'' be  shewn.  [Consequently  the  theistic  theory 
is  not  a  mere  conventional  one,  but  true,  and  the  contradiction  between 
the  atheistic  Sankhya  and  the  theistic  systems  is  real  and  irreconcilable]. 
"  To  this  we  re'pl/:  in  this  case  also  the  distinction  of  practical  and 
essential  truths  hoWs.  For  although  the  atheistic  theory  is  censured  by 
such  texts  as  the  following  :  '  They  declare  a  world  without  an  Isvara  to 
be  false  and  baseless ; '  yet  it  was  proper  that  in  this  system  (the  San- 
khya), the  merely  practical  (or  conventional)  denial  [of  Isvara]  should 
be  inculcated  for  the  purpose  of  inspiring  indifference  to  the  conception 
of  a  Deity,  and  so  forth.  Because  the  idea  of  the  author  of  the  San- 
khya was  this,  that  if  the  existence  of  an  eternal  Isvara  were  not 
denied,  in  conformity  with  the  doctrine  of  the  Laukayatikas,  men  would 
be  prevented  by  the  contemplation  of  a  perfect-,  eternal,  and  faultless 
godhead,  and  by  fixing  their  hearts  upon  it,  from  studying  to  discri- 
minate [between  spirit  and  matter].  But  no  censure  on  the  theistic 
theory  is  to  be  found  in  any  work,  whereby  [the  scope  *)f  ]  that 
system  might  be  restricted,  as  having  devotion,  etc.,  in  view  as  its 
only  end.  And  as  regards  such  texts  as  the  following :  '  There  is 
no  knowledge  like  the  Sankhya,  no  power  like  the  Yoga ;  doubt  not 
of  this,  the  knowledge  of  the  Sankhya  is  considered  to  be  the  highest,' 
they  [are  to  be  understood  as]  proving  the  superiority  of  the  Sankhya 
doctrine  over  other  systems,  not  in  respect  of  its  atheism,  but  only  of 
its  discrimination  [between  different  principles].  It  is,  moreover,  estab- 
lished by  the  concurrence  of  Parasara,  and  all  other  well  instructed 
persons,  that  the  theistic  theory  is  that  which  represents  the  essential 
truth.  Further,  such  texts  as  the  following  of  the  Parasara  Upapurana, 
and  other  works,  shew  that  the  strength  of  the  Brahma-mlmansa  lies 
on  the  side  of  its  theism,  viz.,  'In  the  systems  of  Akshapada  (Gotama) 
and  Kanaka,  and  in  the"  Sankhya  and  Yoga,  that  ]/art  which  is  opposed 
to  the  Yeda  should  be  rejected  by ,#11  personsnvho  regard  the  Yeda  as 
the  sole  authority.  In  the  systems  of  Jaimini  and  Vyasa  (the  Yedanta) 
there  is  no  portion  contrary  to  the  Yeda,  since  both  these  sages  have 
attained  to  a  perfect  comprehension  of  its  true  meaning.  In  4he  same 
way  it  results  from  this  text  of  the  Mokstu-dharma  (a  part  of  the 


200  OPINIONS   REGARDING   THE   ORIGIN,  ETC.,  t 

S'anti-parvan  of  the  Mahabharata),  viz. :  '  Many  systems  of  reasoning 
have  been  promulgated  by  different  Authors;  [in  these]  whatever  is 
established  on  grounds  of  reason,  of  soripture  and  of  approved  custom, 
IB  to  be  respected;'  [from  this  text  also,  I  Say,  it  results*]  that  the 
theory, — declared  in  the  Brahma-mimansa.  the  Nyaya,  the  Vaiseshika, 
etc.,  in  consonance  with  the  tradition  of  Parasara  and1  all  other  well- 
instructed  men, — which  asserts  an  Isvara,  is  aldiie  *to  be  received,  in 
consequence  of  its  strength ;  arid  [the  same  tkin#-  follows]  from  the 
fact  that  in  such  passages  as  this  of  the  Kaurma-purana,  etc.,  viz.-- 
'  Take  refuge  with  that  Mahesvara,  that  Brahma  without  beginning 
or  end,  whom  the  most  eminent  Yogins,  and  the  Sankhyas  do  not 
behold,' — Narayana  (Vishnu)  and  others  asserir  that  the  Sankhyas  are 
ignorant  of  Isvara. 

"Moreover,  Isvara  is  determined  to  be  the  principal  subject  of  the 
Brahma-mimansa  by  the  introductory  statement,  etc.,  of  that  system. 
If  it  were  open  to  objection  on  that  side  [i.e.  on  the  side  of  its  principal 
subject],  the  entire  system  would  be  without  authority.  For  it  is  a 
rule  that  '  the  sense  of  a  word  is  that  which  it  is  intended  to  denote.' 
"Whereag  the  principal  subjects  of  the  Sankhya  are — (1)  the  grand 
object  of  human  pursuit,  and  (2)  the  distinction  between  nature  (pra- 
kriti]  and  spirit  (purusha),  which  is  the  instrument  of  attaining  that 
grand  object.  Thus  this  system  does  not  lose  its  authority,  even 
though  it  be  erroneous  in  so  far  as  it  denies  an  Isvara.  For  it  is  a  rule 
that  'the  sense  of  a  word  is  that  which  it  is  intended  to  denote.' 
Hence,  as  the  Sankhya  has  a  certain  applicability  of  its  own,  it  is  weak 
only  in  so  far  as  it  denies  an  Isvara. 

"Nor  can  it  be  alleged  tha,t  it  is  Isvara  only,  and  not  the  eternity  of 
his  existence,  that  is  the  principal  subject  of  the  Brahnia-mlmansa ; 
since,  through  the  disproof  of  the  objection  (purva-paksha]  that  the 
theistic  theory  'is  chargable  with  the  defect  of  rendering  the  Smriti 
inapplicable,'  17°  it  is  ascertained  that  the  assertion  of  an  eternal  Isvara 
is  the  main  object  of  the  Brahma-mimansa.  But  as  the  word  'Brahma' 
is  properly  employed  t<?  denote  thfe  supreme  Brahma,  the  first  aphor- 
ism of  the  Brahma-mimansa  does  not  run  thus,  '  Now  follows  the  en- 
quiry regarding  the  supreme  Brahma ; '  [but  thus,  '  Now  follows  the 

170  The  aphorism  here  referred  to  (Brahma  Sutras  ii.  1,  1),  with  most  of  S'ankara's 
comment  on  it,  has  been  already  quoted  above,  pp.  185  if. 


OF  THE  VEDAS,  HELD   BY   INDIAN  AUTHORS.  201 

enquiry  regarding  Brahma.']  Hence  we  are  not  to  surmise  that,  as  they 
[would  otherwise]  contradict  the  Sankhya,  the  Brahma-mimansa  and 
Yoga  systems  must  aim  at  establishing  [not  an  eternal  Deity]  but  a 
[secondary*]  Isvara,  who'is  merely  an  effect.  For  this  is  disproved  (1) 
by  the  series  of  Brahma  Sutras  (ii.  2,  1  ff.)  which  affirm  that  'an  un- 
intelligent caust?  of  the  world  cannot  be  inferred,  as  it  ig  not  conceiv- 
able ^that  such  a»caase  should  frame  anything,'  and  which  would  be 
rendered  inconclu'siy^  by  the  assumption  of  the  independent  action  of 
Prakriti';  and  (2)  by  the  fact  that  the  eternity 'of  God  is  clearly  under- 
stood from  the  Yoga  aphorism  [i.  26],  viz.  '  He  is  also  the  instructor 
of  the  ancients,  as  he  is  not  circumscribed  by  time,'  as  well  as  from 
the  commentary  of  Vyasa  thereon.171  Hence,  as  the  Sankhya,  arguing 
on  its  own  special  principles,  and  at  the  same  time  making  a  great  dis- 
play of  ingenuity172  and  so  forth,  has  in  view  a  merely  practical  denial 
of  an  Isvara,  it  does  not  contradict  the  Brahma-mlmansa  or  the  Yoga. 
The  method  of  reasoning  on  special  principles  is  referred  to  in  the 
S'astra.  Thus  it  is  said  in  the  Vishnu  Purana  [i.  17,  54,  "Wilson, 
vol.  ii.  p.  44],  '  These  notions,  Daityas,  which  I  h^e  described,  are 
the  guesses  of  persons  who  look  on  the  Deity  as  distinct  from  them- 
selves. Accepting  them  as  partially  correct,  hear  from  me  a  summary 
(of  transcendental  truth). 

"Or  let  it  be  [supposed]  that  even  orthodox  systems,  with  the  view 
of  preventing  sinners  from  attaining  knowledge,  lay  down  doctrines 
which  are  partially  opposed  to  the  Veda ;  and  that -in  those  particular 
portions  they  are  not  authoritative.  Still  in  their  principal  contents, 

171  I  quote  the  commentary  of  Bhoja-raja  on  this  Sutra,  as  given  hy  Dr.  Ballantyne 
(Aphorisms  of  the  Yoga,  part  first,  p.  32) :  Purvetfiam  \  adyanam  Brahmad~inam  api 
sa  gurur  upadeshta  yatah  sa  kalena  navachchhidyate  anaditvat  \  tesham  punar  adi- 
mattvad  asti  "kalena  avachchhedah  \  "  Of  the  ancients,  that  is,  of  the  earliest  [beings], 
Brahma  and  the  rest,  he  is  the  guru,  i.e.,  the  instructor,  because  He,  as  having  no 
beginning,  is  not  circumscribed  by  time ;  while  they,  on  "the  other  hand,  having  had 
a  beginning,  are  circumscribed  by  time." 

172  I  am  indebted  to  F?of?ssor  Coif  ell  for  a  satisfactory  interpretation  of  the  first  of 
these  two  phrases,  abhyupagama-vada  and  praudhi-vada,  as  well  as  for  various  other 
improvements  in  my  translation  of  this  pafsage.    The  phrase  abhyupagama-siddhanta 
is  rendered  by  Dr.  Ballantyne  "Implied  dogma"  (Nyaya  aphorisms,  i.  31,  p.  30,  as 
corrected  in  MS.).    Professor  Goldstiicker  s.v.  renders  it  by  "implied  axiom."     In 
Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon  the  phrase  abhyupagama-vada  is  rendered  "  a  dis- 
cussion in  a  conciliatory  spirit."     In  regard  to  the  seijse  of  praudhi~vadc>  see  above, 
p.  172. 


202  OPINIONS  REGARDING  THE   ORIGIN,  ETC.,  , 

which  are  consonant  to  the  S'ruti  and  the  Smriti,  they  possess  authority. 
Accordingly,  in  the  Padma  Parana  wet  find  a  censure  passed  even  upon 
the  several  philosophical  systems  (Darsanas},  with  the  exception  of  the 
Brahma  (the  Vedanta)  and  the  Yoga.  For  in  that  work  Isvwa  (Haha- 
deva)  says  to  Parvati,  'Listen,  goddess,  cwhile  I  declare  to  you  the 
Tamasa  work^  (the1  works  characterised  by  tamas,  or*  the  quality  of 
darkness)  in  order;  works  by  the  mere  hearing*  of 'which  even  wise 

I 

men  become  fallen.  First  of  afl,  the  S'aiva  systems,  called  Pasupata, 
etc.,  were  delivered  b.v  myself.  Then  the  following  were  uttered  by 
Brahmans  penetrated  by  my  power,  viz.  the  great  Vaiseshika  system 
by  Kanada,  and  the  Kyaya,  and  Sankhya,  by  Gotama  and  Kapila  re- 
spectively. Then  the  great  system,  the  Purva'-[mimansa],  was  com- 
posed by  the  Brahman  Jaimini  on  Vedic  subjects,  but  on  atheistic 
principles.  So  too  the  abominable  Charvaka  doctrine  was  declared  by 
Dhishana,173  while  Vishnu,  in  the  form  of  Buddha,  with  a  view  to  the 
destruction  of  the  Daityas,174  promulgated  the  false  system  of  the  Baud- 
dhas,  who  go  about  naked,  or  wear  blue  garments.  I  myself,  goddess, 
assuming  the  foap.  of  a  Brahman,  uttered  in  the  Kali  age,  the  false 
doctrine  of  Maya  [illusion,  the  more  modern  form  of  the  Vedanta], 
which  is  covert  Buddhism,  which  imputes  a  perverted  and  generally 
censured  signification  to  the  words  of  the  Veda,  and  inculcates  the 
abandonment  of  ceremonial  works,  and  an  inactivity  consequent  on  such 
cessation.  In  that  system  I  propound  the  identity  of  the  supreme  and 
the  embodied  soul,  and  show  that  the  highest  form  of  this  Brahma  is 
that  in  which  he  is  devoid  of  the  [three]  qualities.  It  was  I  myself, 
goddess,  by  whom  this  great  sastra,  which,  composed  of  Vedic  materials 
and  inculcating  the  theory  off  illusion,  is  yet  un- Vedic,  was  declared  in 
the  Kali  age  for  the  destruction  of  this  entire  universe.  ^  "We  have 
entered  into  fuller  explanations  on  this  subject  in  the  Brahma-mimansa- 
bhashya.  There  is,  therefore,  no  want  of  authority,  nor  any  contra- 
diction, in  any  orthodox  system,  for  they  are  all  incapable  of  refutation 
in  their  own  especial  subjects,  and  are  not  mutually  discrepant.  Does, 
then,  this  system  (the  S&nkhya)  lav  down  a  theory  based  only  on  its 
own  assumptions  in  respect  of  the  multitude  of  souls  also  ?  It  does  not. 
For  in  the  Brahma-mlmausa  also  it  is  determined  by  such  a  kind  of  texts 

'  17%  A  name  of  Yrfhaspati,  according  to  Wilson's  dictionary. 
J71  See  Wilson's-Vishnu  Purana,  pp.  334  ff. 


.  OF  THE   VEDAS,   HELD   BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  203 

as  the  following  (Brahma  Sutras,  ii.  3,  43),  viz.  'the  embodied  spirit  is 
a  portion175  of  the^  supreme  soul,  from  the  Variety  of  appellations,'  that 
there  is  a  multitude  of  embodied  spirits.  But  it  is  denied  by  the  Brahma- 
mlmansa  tteat  the  spirits \purusha)  asserted  by  the  Sankhya  have  the 
character  of  Soul ;  for  it  is  determined  by  the  Brahma  Sutra  (iv.  1,  3), 
'  they  approach  fiim  as  one  with  themselves,' 176  that,  on  the  ground  of 
transcendental  truth,  the  supreme  Soul  alone  has  the  character  of  Soul. 
But,  nevertheless,  tli^jSankhya  is  not  urfauthoritative  ;  for  as  the  know- 
ledge of  its  own  distinctness  from  other  things,  oobtained  by  the  em- 
bodied spirit  in  its  worldly  condition,  is  instrumental  to  final  liberation, 
this  system  is  not  erroneous  in  the  particular  subject  matter  which  it 
aims  at  propounding.  In  this  way  it  results  from  the  distinction  of 
practical  and  real,  that  there  is  no  contradiction  between  the  two 
theories  (made  known  by  the  S'ruti  and  Smriti),  of  a  multitude  of 
souls,  and  the  unity  of  all  soul. 

The  view  taken  by  Madhusudana,  as  quoted  above,  and  partially 
confirmed  by  Vijnana  Bhikshu,  of  the  ultimate  coincidence  in  principle 
of  all  the  different  schools  of  Hindu  philosophy,  however  mutually 
hostile  in  appearance,  seems,  as  I  have  remarked,  to  be  that  which  is 
commonly  entertained  by  modern  Pandits.  (See  Dr.  Ballantyne's  Sy» 
nopsis  of  Science,  advertisement,  p.  iv.)  This  system  of  compromise, 
hwoever,  is  clearly  a  deviation  from  the  older  doctrine  j  and  it  practi- 
cally abolishes  the  distinction  in  point  of  authority  between  the  Yedas 
and  the  Smritis,  Darsanas,  etc.  For  if  the  Munis,  authors  of  the  six 
Darsanas,  were  omniscient  and  infallible,  they  must  stand  on  the  same 
level  with  the  Yedas,  which  can  be  nothing  more. 

I  return,  however,  from  this  digression  regarding  the  hostility  of 
S'ankara  to  $he  adherents  of  the  Sankhya  and  other  rationalistic  schools, 

175  On  this,  however,  S'ankara  (in  loco)  remarks  as  follows  :  JJvah  Isvarasya  amso 
bhavitum  arhati  yatha'gnervisphulingah  \  amsahivaaiiisah  \  nahiniravayavasyamu- 
khyo  'ms ah  sambhavati  \  kasmat  punar  niravayavatvcit  so,  eva  na  bhavati  \  "nana- 
vyapadesat  \  "  The  embodied  soul  must  be  '  a  portion '  of  Is'vara,  as  a  spark  is  of  fire 
(and  not  mer3ly  dependent  upon  him  3s  a  servant  on  his  master) .   '  A  portion  '  means, 
'  as  it  were  a  portion ; '  for  nothing  can  be,  in  the  proper  sense,  '  a  portion '  of  that 
which  has  no  parts.     Why,  then,  as  Is'vara'has  no  parts,  is  not  the  embodied  soul  the 
very  same  as  he  ?    '  From  the  variety*  of  appellations,'  etc.,  etc." 

176  The  original  Sutra  runs  thus :  Alma  iti  ttt  upagachchhanti  grahayanti  cha  \ 
"  They  approach  Him  as  one  with  themselves,  and  [certain  texts]  cause  them  to 
receive  Him  as  one  with  themselves."     This  refers  to  certain  texts  whicH  S'ankara 
adduces  from  one  of  the  Upanishads,  apparently. 


204  OPINIONS    REGARDING   THE   ORIGIN,  ETC., 

• 

and  the  opinions  of  later  authors  concerning  the  founders  of  those 
several  systems.  The  distinction  drawn  by  the  Indian  commentators 
quoted  in  this  section  between  the  superhuman  Veda  and  its  human 
appendages,  the  Kalpa  Sutras,  etc.,  as  well  as  the  other  Smritis,  is  not 
borne  out  by  the  texts  which  I  have  cited  above  (pp.  8,  31)  from  the 

Brihad  Aranyaka  (•-=  S'atapatha  Brahmana),  and  Mundaka  Upanishads. 

f  ' 

By  classing  together  the  Yedic  Sanhitas,  and  tht  oiher  works  enume- 
rated in  the  same  passages,  the  authors  of  bath^fc'e  TJpanishfcds  seem 
to  place  them  all  upon 'an  equal  footing;  and  the  former  of  the  two 
authorities  speaks  of  them  all  as  having  proceeded  from  the  breathing 
of  the  Great  Being.  If  the  one  set  of  works  are  superhuman,  it  may 
fairly  be  argued  that  the  others  are  so  likewise.  According  to  the 
jVIundaka  TJpanishad,  neither  of  them  (if  we  except  only  the  Yedantas 
or  Upanishads)  can  be  placed  in  the  highest  rank,  as  they  equally  in- 
culcate a  science  which  is  only  of  secondary  importance. 

As,  however,  S'ankara  (who,  no  doubt,  perceived  that  it  would  be 
inconsistent  with  modern  theories  to  admit  that  any  of  the  works 
usually  classed  under  the  head  of  Smriti  had  been  really  breathed  forth 
by  the  Creator,  and  that  such  a  directly  divine  origin  could,  on  ortho- 
dox principles,  be  assigned  only  to  writings  coming  under  the  desig- 
nation of  S'ruti),  maintains  in  his  comment  on  the  text  of  the  Brihad 
Aranyaka  Upanishad  that  the  whole  of  the  works  there  enumerated, 
excepting  the  Sanhitas  of  the  four  Vedas,  are  in  reality  portions  of  the 
Brahmanas,  it  will  be  necessary  to  quote  his  remarks,  which  are  as 
follows  (Bibl.  Ind.  ii.  855  ff.) : 

.  .  .  Nisvasitam  iva  nisvasitam  \  yathd  aprayatnenaiva  purusha-nisvdso 
lhavaty  evam  vd  \  are  kim  tad  nisvasitam  tato  jdtam  ity  uchyate  \  Yad 
rigvedo  yajurvedah  sdmavedo  'tharvangirasas  cJiaturvidJiam  mantra-jdtam  \ 
itihdsah  ity  Urvasl-Pururavasor  samvddddir  "Urvasl  ha  apsardh  "  ityddi- 
brdhmanam  eva  \  pur&nam  "  asad  vd  idam  agre  dsld"  ityddi  \  vidyd 
devajana-vidyd  "vedah  so  'yam"  ityddih  {  upanishadah  " priyam  ity  etad 
updslta"  ityddydh,  \  slokdh  " brdhmana-jprctbhavdh  mantras  tad  ete 
slokdh"  ity  ddayah  \  sutrdni  vastu-sangraha-vdkydni  vede  yathd  "  dtmd 
ity  eva  updslta"  ityddmi  \  anuvydkhydndpi  mantra-vivarandni  \  vydkhyd- 
ndni  arthavdddh  |  .  .  .  .  evam  ashtavidham  brdhmanam  \  evam  mantra- 
Irdhmanayor  eva  grahanym  \  niyata-rachandvato  vidyamdnasyaiva  vedasya 
abhivyaktih  purusha-nisvdsa-vat  \  na  cha  purusha-luddhi-prayatna-pur- 


OF    THE    VEDAS,   HELD    BY  INDIAN    AUTHORS.  205 

o  f 

vakah  |  ataTi  pramdnam  nirapelcshah  eva  svdrthe  \  ....  tena  vedasya 
aprdmdnyam  d&ankate  \  tad-dsankd-nivriUy-artham  idam  uktam  \  puru- 
sha-nisvdsa-vad  aprayatnotthitatvdt  pramdnam  vedo  na  yathd  'nyo  gran- 
tJiah  iti  |  f,  •>• 

"'His breathing '  means,  '  as  it  were,  his  breathing,'  or  it  denotes  the 
absence  of  effort;1  as  in  the  case  of  a  man's  breatMng.     We  are  now 

* 

told  what  that  breathing  was  which  was  produced  from  him.  It  was 
the  four^classes  of  'tnantr.as  (hymns),  those  of  the  Kich,  Yajush,  Saman, 
and  Atha'rvangirases  (Atharvana) ;  Itihasa  (or  'narrative),  such  as  the 
dialogue  between  Urvasi  and  Pururavas,  viz.  the  passage  in  the  Brah- 
mana  beginning  '  Urvasi  the  Apsaras,'  etc.  [S'.  P.  Br.  p.  855]  ;  Purana, 
such  as,  '  This  was  originally  non-existent,'  etc. ;  Vidya  (knowledge), 
the  knowledge  of  the  'gods,  as,  '  This  is  the  Veda/  etc. ;  TJpanishads, 
such  as,  '  Let  him  reverence  this,  as  beloved,'  etc. ;  S'lokas,  such  as 
those  here  mentioned,  '  The  mantras  are  the  sources  of  the  Brahmanas, 
on  which  subject  there  are  these  slokas,'  etc. ;  Sutras  (aphorisms)  oc- 
curring in  the  Veda  which  condense  the  substance  of  doctrines,  as, 
'  Let  him  adore  this  as  Soul,'  etc.  ;  Anuvyakhyanas,  or  interpretations 
of  the  mantras ;  Vyakhyanas,  or  illustrative  remarks."  The  commen- 
tator adds  alternative  explanations  of  the  two  last  terms,  and  then  pro- 
ceeds: "  Here,  therefore,  eight  sorts  of  texts  occurring  in  the  Brahmanas 
are  referred  to ;  and  consequently  the  passage  before  us  embraces  merely 
mantras  and  Brahmanas.  The  manifestation  of  the  Yeda,  which  already 
existed  in  a  fixed  form  of  composition,  is  compared  to  the  breathing  of 
a  person.  The  Yeda  was  not  the  result  of  an  effort  of  the  intelligence 
of  any  person.177  Consequently,  as  proof  in  respect  of  its  own  contents, 
it  is  independent  of  everything  else." 

S'ankara  terminates  his  remarks  on  this  passage  by  intimating,  as 
one  supposition,  that  the  author  of  the  Upanishad  means,  in  the  words 

177  Compare  S'ankara's  Comment  on  Brahma  Sutra,  i?  1,  3,  as  quoted  above  in 
p.  106,  where  this  same  text  of  the  Brih.  Ar.  Up.  is  referred  to.  As  the  fact  of 
Brahma  being  the  author  'T)f  the  Vedas  is  there  adduced  to  prove  the  transcendent 
character  of  nis  knowledge,  and  of  his  power,  we  must,  apparently  (unless  we  are  to 
charge  the  great  commentator  with  layings  down  inconsistent  doctrines  in  the  two 
passages),  suppose  that  in  the  text  before  us  he  does  not  mean  to  deny  that  Brahma 
was  conscious  of  the  procession  of  the  Vedas,  etc.,  from  himself,  and  cognizant  of  their 
sense  (as  the  author  of  the  Siinmya  aphorisms  and  his  commentator  seem  to  have 
understood,  see  above  p.  13&),  but  merely  that  his  consciousness  and  cognizance  were 
not  the  result  of  any  effort  on  his  part. 


206  OPINIONS  REGARDING  TIIE  ORIGIN,  ETC., 

on  which  he  comments,  to  remove  a  doubt  regarding  the  authority  of 
the  Yeda,  arising  from  some  words  which  had  preceded,  and  therefore 
affirms  that  "the  Yeda  is  authoritative,  because  it  was  produced  with- 
out any  effort  of  will,  like  a  man's  breathiiig,  and  not  in  the  same 
manner  as  other  books."  (See  Sankhya  Sutras,  v.  50  ;  above,  p.  135.) 

This  attempt  to  explain  the  whole  of  the  eight  classes  of  works  enu- 
merated in  the  Upanishad  as  nothing  else  than  parts'  of  the  Brahmanas, 
cannot  be  regarded  as  altogether  satisfactory,  skaqe.  'some  of  them,  such 
as  the  Sutras,  have  always  been  referred  to  a  distinct  class  of  writings, 
which  are  regarded  as  uninspired  (see  Miiller's  Anc.  Ind.  Lit.  pp.  75, 
86) ;  and  the  Itihasas  and  Puranas  had  in  all  probability  become  a 
distinct  class  of  writings  at  the  period  when  the  Upanishad  was  com- 
posed. And  S'ankara's  explanation  is  rendered  more  improbable  if  we 
compare  with  this  passage  the  other  from  the  Mundaka  Upanishad,  i. 
1,  5,  already  quoted  above  (p.  31),  where  it  is  said,  "The  inferior 
science  consists  of  the  Rich,  Tajush,  Saman,  and  Atharvan  Vedas,  ac- 
centuation (sihhd],  ritual  prescriptions  (kalpa),  grammar,  commentary 
(nirukta),  prosody  (chhandas),  and  astronomy."173  Here  various  ap- 
pendages of  the  Yedas,  which  later  writers  expressly  distinguish  from 
the  Yedas  themselves,  and  distinctly  declare  to  have  no  superhuman 
authority,  are  yet  mentioned  in  the  same  category  with  the  four  San- 
hitas,  or  collections  of  the  hymns,  as  constituting  the  inferior  science 
(in  opposition  to  the  knowledge  of  the  supreme  Spirit).  From  this  we 
may  reasonably  infer  that  the  author  of  the  Brihad  Aranyaka  Upani- 
shad also,  when  he  specifies  the  Sutras  and  some  of  the  other  works 

178  I  take  the  opportunity  of  introducing  here  Siiyana's  remarks  on  this  passage  in 
his  Commentary  on  the  Rig-ve^a,  vol.J..,  p.  33  :  Atigambhirasya  vedasya  artham 
avabodhayitum  sikshacfini  shad-angani  pravrittani  \  ata  eva  tesham  apara-vidya- 
rupatvam  Mundakopanishady  Atharvanikah  amananti  \  "  dve  vidye"  ityadi  |  .  .  .  . 
sadhana-bhiita-  dharma-jnana-hetutvat  shad-anga-sahitanam  karma-kandanam  apara- 
vidyatvam  \  parama-punishrirtha-bhTtta-brahma-jnana-hetutvad  upanishadam  para- 
vidyatvam  \  "  The  S'iksha  and  other  five  appendages  are  intended  to  promote  the  com- 
prehension of  the  sense  of  the  very  deep  Vedat  Hence,  fti  the  Mundaka  Upanishad, 
the  followers  of  the  A'tharva-veda  declare  that  these  works  belong  to  the  class  of 
inferior  sciences,  thus:  '  There  are  two  s^'ences,'  etc.  [see  the  entire  passage  in  p.  31.] 
Since  the  sections  of  the  Veda  which  relate  to  ceremonies  [including,  of  course,  the 
hymns],  as  well  as  the  six  appendages,  lead  to  a  knowledge  of  duty,  which  is  an  in- 
strument [of  something  further],  they  are  ranked  as  an  inferior  science.  On  the  other 
hand  the  .t'panishads,  whichfconduct  to  a  knowledge  of  Brahma,  the  supreme  object 
of  man,  constitute  the  highest  science." 


OF   THE   VEDAS,   HELD   BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  207 

which  he  enumerates,  intended  to  speak  of  the  Yedangas  or  appendages 
of  the  Yedas,  and  perhaps  the  Smritis  also,  as  being  the  breathing  of 
Brahma.  The  works  which  in,  the  passage  from  the  Mundaka  are 
called  Kalp,a,  are  also  coumonly  designated  as  the  Kalpa  Sutras. 

This  conclusion  is  in  some  degree  confirmed  by  referring  to  the  pas- 
sage from  the  Mahabharata,  S'anti-parvan,  7,660,  which  has  been  cited 
in  p. '105,  where  ft  it  said  that  the  "great  rishis,  empowered  by  Sva- 
yambhii,  obtained'  by  devotion  the  Yedas,  and  the  Itihasas,  which  had 
disappeared  at  the  end  of  the  preceding  Tuga."  Whatever  may  be 
the  sense  of  the  word  Itihasa  in  a  Yedic  work,  there  can  be  no  doubt 
that  in  the  Mahabharata,  which  is  itself  an  Itihasa,  the  word  refers  to 
that  class  of  metrical  histories.  And  in  this  text  we  see  these  Itihasas 
placed  on  a  footing  of  equality  with  the  Yedas,  and  regarded  as  having 
been,  like  them,  pre-existent  and  supernatural.  See  also  the  passage 
from  the  Chhandogya  Upanishad,  vii.  1,  1  if.  (Bibl.  Ind.,  vol.  iii.  pp. 
473  ff.),  quoted  above  (p.  33),  where  the  Itihasas  and  Puranas  are  spoken 
of  as  "  the  fifth  Yeda  of  the  Yedas."  The  same  title  of  "  fifth  Yeda  " 
is  applied  to  them  in  the  Bhag.  Pur.  iii.  12,  39  :  Itihasa-purdndni  pan- 
chamam  vedam  Tsvarah  \  sarvelhyah  eva  mukhebhyah  sasrije  sarva-dar- 
sanah  \  "The  omniscient  Isvara  (God)  created  from  all  his  mouths  the 
Itihasas  and  Puranas,  as  a  fifth  Yeda."  See  also  the  passages  quoted 
above  in  pp.  27-30,  from  the  Puranas  and  Mahabharata,  where  the 
Itihasas  and  Puranas  themselves  are  placed  on  an  equality  with,  if  not 
in  a  higher  rank,  than  the  Yedas.  The  claims  put  forward  by  these 
popular  works  on  their  own  behalf  are  not,  indeed,  recognized  as  valid 
by  more  critical  and  scientific  authors,  who,  as  we  have  seen  at  the 
beginning  of  this  section,  draw  a  distinct  line  of  demarcation  between 
the  Yedas  and  all  other  works ;  but  it  would  appear  from  the  passages 
I  have  quoted  from  the  TJpanishads  that  at  one  time  the  Yedas  were, 
at  least,  not  so  strictly  discriminated  from  the  Bother  S'astras  as  they 
afterwards  were. 

SECT.  XIL — Recapitulation  of  the  Arguments  urged  in  the  Dafisanas, 
and  by  Commentators,  in  supporfof  the  Authority  of  the  Vedas,  with 
some  remarks  on  these  reasonings. 

As  in  the  preceding  sections  I  have  entered  at  some  length  into  the 
arguments  urged  by  the  authors  of  the  philosopical  systems  and  their 


208  OPINIONS    REGARDING   THE    ORIGIN,    ETC., 

• 

commentators,  in  proof  of  the  eternity  and  infallibility  of  the  Vedas,  it 
may  be  convenient  to  recapitulate  the  most  important  points  in  these 
reasonings ;  and  I  shall  then  add  such]  observations  a^  the  consideration 
of  them  may  suggest.  (. 

The  grounds  on  which  the  apologists  of  the  Yedas  rest  their  authority 
are  briefly  these :  first,  it  is  urged  that,'  like  the  sur,  they  shine  by 
their  own  light,  and  evince  an  inherent  power  both,  of  revealing*  their 
own  perfection,  and  of  elucidating  all  othkr  things.,'  past  and,,  future, 
great  and  small,  near  and  remote  (Sayana,  as  quoted  above,  p.  62 ; 
S'ankara  on  Brahma  Sutras  i.  1,  31,  above,  p.  190).  This  is  the  view 
taken  by  the  author  of  the  Sankhya  Sutras  also,  who,  however, 
expressly  denies  that  the  Vedas  originated  frpni  the  conscious  effort 
of  any  divine  being  (see  p.  135).  Second,  it  is 'asserted  that  the  Veda 
could  have  had  no  (human)  personal  author,  as  no  such  composer  is 
recollected  (Madhava,  above,  pp.  83  ff),  and  cannot  therefore  be  sus- 
pected of  any  such  imperfection  as  would  arise  from  the  fallibility  of 
such  an  author  (pp.  69  f. ;  Sayana  p.  106).  Third,  the  Purva-mimansa 
adds  to  this  that  the  words  of  which  the  Vedas  are  composed  are  eternal, 
and  have  an  eternal  connection  (not  an  arbitrary  relation  depending  upon 
the  human  will)  with  their  meanings,  and  that  therefore  the  Vedas  are 
eternal,  and  consequently  perfect  and  infallible 179  (Mimansa  Sutras  and 
Commentary,  above,  pp.71  ff.,  and  Sarva-darsana-sangraha,  above,  pp.9  If.) 
Fourth,  the  preceding  view  is  either  explained  or  modified  by  the  com- 
mentator on  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita  (above,  p.  69),  as  well  as  by  Sayana  in 
his  Introduction  to  the  Big-veda  (above,  p.  106),  who  say  that,  like  time, 
sether,  etc.,  the  Veda  is  only  eternal  in  a  qualified  sense,  i.e.  during  the 
continuance  of  the  existing  mundane  system;  and  that  in  reality  it  sprang 
from  Brahma  at  the  beginning  of  the  creation.  But  this  origin  cannot 
according  to  their  view  affect  the  perfection  of  the  Veda,  which  in  con- 
sequence of  the  faultlessness  of  its  author  possesses  a  self-demonstrating 
authority.  Fifth,  although  the  Vedanta,  too,  speaks  of  the  eternity  of  the 
Veda  (above,  p.  105),  it  also  in  the  same  passage  makes  mention  of  its 
self-dependent  author ;.  while  in  another  passage  (p.  106)  it  distinctly 
ascribes  the  origin  of  the  Indian  Scripture  to  Brahma  as  its  source  or 

179  In  the  Brihad  Aranyaka  Upanishad  (p.  688  of  Dr.  Roer's  ed.)  it  is  said :  Va- 
chaiva  samrad  Brahma  jnauate  vag  vai  samrat  paramam  Brahma  \  "  By  speech,  o 
monarch,  Brkhma  is  known.  Speech  is  the  supreme  Brahma." 


>  OF    THE   VEDAS,   HELD  BY  INDIAN   AUTHORS.  209 

cause.  Brahma  here  must  be  taken  as  neuter,  denoting  the  supreme 
Spirit,  and  not  masculine,  desigaating  the  personal  creator,  as  under 
the  fourth  head.180  Sixth,  according  to  the  Naiyayika  doctrine  the  au- 
thority of  "the  Veda  is  established  by  the  fact  of  its  having  emanated 
from  competent  persons  who>  had  an  intuitive  perception  of  duty,  and 
whose  competence  is  proved  by  their  injunctions  being  attended  with 
the  desired  results 'in  all  cases  which  come  within  the  cognizance  of  our 
senses  a"tyd  experience  (Nyaya  Sutras,  above,  pp.  116).  Seventh,  agree- 
ably to  the  Vaiseshika  doctrine,  and  that  of  the'Kusumanjali,  the  in- 
fallibility of  the  Veda  results  from  the  omniscience  of  its  author,  who 
is  God  (Vaiseshika  Sutras,  Tarka  Sangraha,  and  Kusumanjali,  pp.  1 19  ff., 
127,  and  129  ff.,  above).' 

These  arguments,  as  the  reader  who  has  studied  all  their  details  will 
have  noticed,  are  sometimes  indirect  opposition  to  each  other  in  their  lead- 
ing principles ;  and  they  are  not  likely  to  seem  convincing  to  any  persons 
but  the  adherents  of  the  schools  from  which  they  have  severally  emanated. 
The  European  student  (unless  he  has  some  ulterior  practical  object  in 
view)  can  only  look  upon  these  opinions  as  matters  of  historical  interest, 
as  illustrations  of  the  course  of  religious  thought  among  a  highly  acute 
and  speculative  people.  But  they  may  be  expected  to  possess  a  greater 
importance  in  the  eyes  of  any  Indian  readers  into  whose  hands  this  book 
may  fall ;  and  as  such  readers  may  desire  to  learn  in  what  light  these 
arguments  are  regarded  by  "Western  scholars,  I  shall  offer  a  few  remarks 
on  the  subject. 

In  regard  to  the  first  ground  in  support  of  the  infallibility  of  the 
Veda,  viz.  the  evidence  which  radiates  from  itself,  or  its  internal  evi- 
dence, I  may  observe  first,  that  this  is  a  Species  of  proof  which  can 
only  be  estimated  by  those  who  have  made  the  Indian  Scripture  the 
object  of  careful  study ;  and,  second,  that  it  must  be  judged  by  the 
reason  and  conscience  of  each  individual  student.  This  evidence  may 
appear  conclusive  to  mpn  in  a  certain  stage  of  their  national  and  per- 
sonal culture,  and  especially  to  those  who  have  been  accustomed*  from 
their  infancy  to  regard  the  Vedas  with  a  hereditary  veneration ;  whilst 
to  persons  in  a  different  state  of"  mental  progress,  and  living  under  dif- 
ferent influences,  it  will  appear  perfectly  futile.  It  is  quite  clear  that, 
even  in  India  itself,  there  existed  in  former  agel  multitudes  of  learned 
180  See  note  in  p.  205,  above. 

14 


210  OPINIONS   REGARDING  THE   ORIGIN,   ETC., 

and  virtuous  men  who  were  unable  to  see  the  force  of  this  argument, 
and  who  consequently  rejected  the  authority  of  the  Vedas.  I  allude  of 
course  to  Buddha  and  his  followers.  And  we  have  even  found  that 
some  of  those  writers  who  are  admitted  to  have  been  orthodox,  such  as 
the  authors  of  the  Upanishads,  the  Bhag?vad  Gita,  and  the  Bhagavata 

I 

Purana,  while  they  attach  the  highest  value  to  the  divine  knowledge  con- 
veyed by  the  latest  portions  of  the  Veda,  denreciatfe,  if  they  do  not  actu- 
ally despise,  the  hymns  and  the  ceremonial  worship  connected  with  them. 
In  regard  to  the  recbnd  argument,  viz.  that  the  Vedas  must  be  of 
supernatural  origin,  and  infallible  authority,  as  they  are  not  known  to 
have  had  any  human  author,  I  observe  as  follows.  The  Greek  historian, 
Herodotus,  remarks  (ii.  23)  of  a  geographer  tff  his  own  day  who  ex- 
plained the  annual  inundations  of  the  river  Mle  by  supposing  its  stream 
to  be  derived  from  an  imaginary  ocean  flowing  round  the  earth,  which 
no  one  had  ever  seen,  that  his  opinion  did  not  admit  of  confutation, 
because  he  carried  the  discussion  back  into  the  region  of  the  unap- 
parent  (e<?  agaves  rbv  yJuQov  dvevel/cas  ovtc  e^a  eXey^oi/).  The  same 
might  be  said  of  the  Indian  speculators,  who  argue  that  the  Veda  must 
have  had  a  supernatural  origin,  because  it  was  never  observed  to  have 
had  a  human  author  like  other  books; — that  by  thus  removing  the 
negative  grounds  on  which  they  rest  their  case  into  the  unknown 
depths  of  antiquity,  they  do  their  utmost  to  place  themselves  beyond 
the  reach  of  direct  refutation.  But  it  is  to  be  observed  (1)  that,  even 
if  it  were  to  be  admitted  that  no  human  authors  of  the  Vedas  were 
remembered  in  later  ages,  this  would  prove  nothing  more  than  their 
antiquity,  and  that  it  would  still  be  incumbent  on  their  apologists  to 
show  that  this  circumstance  necessarily  involved  their  supernatural 
character ;  and  (2)  that,  in  point  of  fact,  Indian  tradition  does  point  to 
certain  rishis  or  bards  as  the  authors  of  the  Vedic  hymns.  It  is  true, 
indeed,  as  has  been  already  noticed  (p.  85),  that  these  rishis  are  said  to 
have  only  "seen"  the  hymns,  which  (it  is  alleged)  were  eternally  pre- 
existent,  and  that  'they  were  not  their  authors.  But  as  'tradition  de- 
clares that  the  hymns  were  uttered  by  such  and  such  rishis,  how  is  it 
proved  that  the  rishis  to  whom  they  are  ascribed,  or  those,  whoever 
they  were,  from  whom  they  actually  proceeded,  were  not  uttering  the 
mere  productions  of  tteir  own  minds  ?  The  whole  character  of  these 
compositions,  and  the  circumstances  under  which,  from  internal  evi- 


,  OF  THE   VEDAS,    HELD   BY  INDIAN  AUTHORS.  211 

dence,  they  appear  to  have  arisen,  are  in  harmony  with  the  supposition 
that  they  were  nothing  more  than  the  natural  expression  of  the  per- 
sonal hopes  and  feelings  of  those  ancient  bards  by  whom  they  were 
first  recited?  In  these  songs  the  Aryan  sages  celebrated  the  praises  of 
their  ancestral  gods  (while  at  .the  same  time  they  sought  to  conciliate 
their  goodwill  by  a  variety  of  oblations  supposed  to  be  acceptable  to 
them),  and  besougnt  of  them  all  the  blessings  which  men  in  general 
desire — health,  wealth, 'long  life,  cattle,  offspring,  victory  over  their 
enemies,  forgiveness  of  sin,  and  in  some  cases  also  .celestial  felicity. 

The  scope  of  these  hymns  is  well  summed  up  in  the  passage  which 
I  have  already  quoted  (from  Colebrooke's  Misc.  Essays  i.  26)  in  the 
Second  Volume,  p.  206  :  'Arthepsavah  rishayo  devatds  chhandobhir  abhya- 
dhdvan  \  "  The  rishis  desiring  [various]  objects,  hastened  to  the  gods 
with  metrical  prayers."  The  Mrukta,  vii.  1,  quoted  in  the  same  place, 
says :  Tat-kdmah  rishir  yasydm  devatdydm  arthapatyam  ichhan  stutim 
prayunkte  tad-devatah  sa  mantro  lhavati  \  "  Each  particular  hymn  has 
for  its  deity  the  god  to  whom  the  rishi,  seeking  to  obtain  any  object  of 
desire  which  he  longs  for,  addresses  his  prayer."  And  in  the  sequel 
of  the  same  passage  from  the  Nirukta  (vii.  3),  the  fact  that  the 
hymns  express  the  different  feelings  or  objects  of  the  rishis  is  distinctly 
recognized : 

Paroksha-kritdh  pratyaksha-kritds  cha  mantrdh  Ihuyishthdh  alpasah 
ddhydtmikdh  \  athdpi  stutir  eva  bhavati  na  dslrvddah  "Indrasya  nu  mr- 
ydni  pravocham "  Hi  yathd  etasmin  sukte  \  athdpi  dslr  eva  na  stutih 
"  suchakshdh  aham  akshibhydm  Ihuydsam  suvarchdh  mukhena  susrut 
karntibhytim  Ihuydsam"  iti  \  tad  etad  lahulam  ddhuaryave  ydjneshu  cha 
mantreshu  \  athdpi  sapathtilhiSdpau  \  " adya*muriya"  ityddi  .  .  .  athdpi 
kasyachid  bhdyasya  dchikhydsd  \  "na  mrityur  dsid"  ityddi  .  .  .  \  athdpi 
paridevand  kasmdchchid  bhdvdt  \  "  sudevo  adya prapated andvrid"  ityddi  \ 
athdpi  nindd-prasamse  \  "kevaldgho  bhavati  kevalddl"  ityddi  \  evam 
aksha-sukte  dyuta-nindd  cha  krishi-prasamsd  cha  \  evam  uchchdvachair 
alhiprdyair  Yishindm  mantra-drishtayo  lhavanti  \  ' 

"  [Of  the  four  kinds  of  verses  sp  joined  in  the  preceding  section], 
(a)  those  which  address  a  god  as  absent,  (i)  those  which  address  him 
as  present,  and  (c~)  those  which  address  the  worshippers  as  present 
and  the  god  as  absent,  are  the  most  numerous.,' while  those  (d)  which 
refer  to  the  speaker  himself  are  rare.  It  happens  also  that  a  god  is 


212  OPINIONS  REGARDING    THE   ORIGIN,   ETC.,  , 

praised  without  any  blessing  being  invoked,  as  in  the  hymn  (R.  V.  i.  32). 
'I  declare  the  heroic  deeds  of  Indra;'  etc.  Again, r blessings  are  in- 
voked without  any  praise  being  offered;  as  in  the  words,  '  May  I  see  well 
with  my  eyes,  be  resplendent  in  my  face,  and'  hear  well  with,  my  ears.' 
This  frequently  occurs  in  the  Adhvarya^a  (Yajur)  Veda,  and  in  the 
sacrificial  formulae.  Then  agaiit  we  find  oaths  and  curses,  as  in  the 
words  (R.V.  vii.  104,  15),  'May  I  die  to-day,  if  I  "am  a  Yatudhana,' 
etc.  (See  Yol.  I.  p.  327.)  Further,  we  observe  <--he  desire  to  'describe 
some  particular  state  of  things,  as  jn  the  verse  (E.Y.  x.  129,  2),  '  Death 
was  not  then,  nor  immortality,'  etc.  Then  there  is  lamentation,  arising 
out  of  a  certain  state  of  things,  as  in  the  verse  (R.V.  x.  95,  14),  'The 
beautiful  god  will  disappear  and  never  return?'  etc.  Again,  we  have 
blame  and  praise,  as  in  the  words  (R.V.  x.  117,  6),  '  The  man  who  eats 
alone,  sins  alone,'  etc.  So,  too,  in  the  hymn  to  dice  (R.V.  x.  34,  13) 
there  is  a  censure  upon  dice,  and  a  commendation  of  agriculture.  Thus 
the  objects  for  which  the  hymns  were  seen  by  the  rishis  were  very 
various." 181 

It  is  to  be  observed,  however,  that  although  in  this  passage  the 
author,  Yaska,  speaks  of  the  various  desires  which  the  rishis  expressed 
in  different  hymns,  he  nevertheless  adheres  to  the  idea  which  was  re- 
cognized in  his  age,  and  in  which  he  doubtless  participated,  that  the 
rishis  "saw"  the  hymns. 

In  the  Mrukta,  x.  42,  the  form  of  the  metre  in  particular  hymns 
is  ascribed  to  the  peculiar  genius  of  the  rishi  Paruchhepa : 182  Abhydse 

181  In  Nirukta,  Iv.  6,  allusion  is  made  to  a  rishi  Trita  perceiving  a  particular  hymn 
when  he  had  been  thrown  into  a  well  (Tritam  Jcupe  'vahitam   etat  suktam  prati 
babhau),  (_ 

182  A  Paruchhepa  is  mentioned  in  the  Taittlriya  Sanhita,  ii.  5,  8,  3,  as  follows : 
Nrimedhas  clia  Paruehhepis  cha  brahmavadyam  avadetam  "  asmin  dce.-av  ardre  'gniih 

janayava  yataro  nau  brahmlyan  "  iti  \  Nrimedho  'bhyavadat  sa  dhumam  ajanayat  \ 
Paruchhepo  '  bhyavadat  so"'gnim  ajanayat  \  "  rishe"  ity  abravld  "yat  samavadvidva 
Jcathd  tvam  agnim  ajljano  naham"  iti  \  " samidhenlnam  eva  aha-ih  varnam  veda"  ity 
abravtt  \  "  yad  ghritavat  padam  anuchyate  sa  asam  varnes  ltam  tva  samidbhir  An- 
ffirah'  ity  alia  samidhehfshv  eva  taj  jyotir  janayati "  \  "Nrimedha  afid  Paruchhepa 
had  a  discussion  concerning,  sacred  knowk^dge.  They  said,  '  Let  us  kindle  fire l  in  this 
moist  wood,  in  order  to  see  which  of  us  has  most  sacred  knowledge.' 2  Nrimedha  pro- 
nounced (a  text) ;  but  produced  only  smoke.  'Paruchhepa  pronounced  (a  text)  and 
generated  fire.  Nrimedha  said,  '  Rishi,  since  our  knowledge  is  equal,  how  is  it  that 
thou  hast  generated  fire,  wbrle  I  have  not.'  Paruchhepa  replied,  '  I  know  the  lustre 

1  "  Without  friction." — Comm. 

*  "In  regard  to  the  Samidhem"  formulas."— Comm. 


OF    THE    VEDAS,    HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  213 

bhuyamsam  artham  many  ante  yathd  "aho  darsanlya  oho  dar&ariiya"  iti  \ 
tat  Paruchchhepasi(a  sllam  \  "  Men.  consider 'that  by  repetition  the  sense 
is  intensified,  as  in  the  words  '  o  beautiful,  o  beautiful.'  This  is  Paru- 
chhepa's  hi/bit." 

In  Mrukta,  iii.  11,  the  rishi  Kutsa  is  mentioned(  as  being  thus  de- 
scribed by  the  interpreter  Aupamanyava :  RisTiih  Kutso  bhavati  Icartta 
stomdnum  ity  Aupamanyavah^\  "  'Kutsa  is  the  name  of  a  rishi,  a  maker 
of  hymn's,'  according  *o  'Aupamanyava." 

So  too  the  same  work,  x.  32,  says  qf  the  rishi Hiranyastupa  that  "he 
declared  this  hymn  "  (Hiranyastupah  rishir  idam  suktam  provdcha}. 

I  do  not,  as  I  have  already  intimated,  adduce  these  passages  of  the 
Mrukta  to  show  that  the  author  regarded  the  hymns  as  the  ordinary 
productions  of  the  rishis'  own  minds,  for  this  would  be  at  variance  with 
the  expression  "  seeing,"  which  he  applies  to  the  mental  act  by  which 
they  were  produced.  It  appears  also  from  the  terms  in  which  he 
speaks  of  the  rishis  in  the  passage  (Mrukta,  i.  20)  quoted  above,  p.  120, 
where  they  are  described  as  having  an  intuitive  insight  into  duty,  that 
he  placed  them  on  a  far  higher  level  than  the  inferior  men  of  later 
ages.  But  it  is  clear  from  the  instances  I  have  adduced  that  Yaska 
recognizes  the  hymns  as  being  applicable  to  the  particular  circum- 
stances in  which  the  rishis  were  placed,  and  as  being  the  bona  fide  ex- 
pression of  their  individual  emotions  and  desires.  (See  also  the  pas- 
sages from  the  Nirukta,  ii.  10  and  24,  quoted  in  Vol.  I.  pp.  269 
and  338,  which  establish  the  same  point.)  But  if  this  be  true,  the 
supposition  that  these  hymns,  i.e.  hymns  specifically  suited  to  express 
the  various  feelings  and  wishes  of  all  the  different  rishis,  were  eternally 
pre-existent,  and  were  perceived  by  them  at  the  precise  conjunctures 
when  they  wp»re  required  to  give  utterance  to  their  several  aims,  is  per- 
fectly gratuitous  and  unnecessary.  It  might  be  asserted  with  nearly 
the  same  shew  of  reason  that  the  entire  stock  of  ordinary  language 
employed  by  human  beings  to  express  their  ideas  had  existed  from 
eternity. 183  > 

of  the  Samidhems.  The  sentence  which  contains  the  word  ghrita  (butter)  forms  their 
lustre.  When  any  one  repeats  the  woiis,  "  "We  augment  thee,  o  Angiras  (Agni)  with 
fuel  and  with  butter,"  he  then  generates  that  lustre  in  the  Samidhenis.'  " 

183  A  difficulty  of  the  same  nature  as  that  here  urged,  viz.  that  men  and  objects 
which  existed  in  time  are  mentioned  in  the  Vedas  which  a'^'e  yet  said  to  be  'eternal,  was 
felt  by  Jaimini,  as  we  have  already  seen  (pp.  77ff.).  I  recur  to  this  subject  in  p.  215. 


214  OPINIONS    REGARDING    THE    ORIGIN,   ETC., 

In  regard  to  the  third  argument  for  the  authority  of  the  Vedas,  viz. 
that  they  are  eternal,  because  the  wqrds  of  which  {hey  are  composed 
are  eternal,  and  because  these  words  have  an  inherent  and  eternal  (and 
not  a  merely  conventional)  connection  with  ttte  signification*;  or  objects, 
or  the  species  of  objects,  which  they  represent,  it  is  to  be  observed  that 
it  is  rejected  both'  by  the  Nyap a  and  Sankhya  schools.184  And  I  am 
unable  (if  I  rightly  comprehend  this  orthodox  re'asdning)  to  see  how  it 
proves  the  authority  of  the  Veda  more  than  that1  of  any  other  book. 
If  the  words  of  the  „ Veda  are  eternal,  so  must  those  of  the  Bauddha 
books  be  eternal,  and  consequently,  if  eternal  pre-existence  is  a  proof 
of  perfection,  the  infallibility  of  these  heretical  works  must  be  as  much 
proved  by  this  argument  as  the  divine  origin  of  the  Vedas,  whose  pre- 
tensions they  reject  and  oppose.  Or  if  the  meaning  is  that  the  words 
of  the  Veda  alone  are  eternal  and  infallible,  this  is  an  assumption  which 
requires  proof.  If  their  reception  by  great  rishis  be  alleged  as  evidence, 
it  must  be  remarked  that  the  authority  of  these  rishis  is  itself  a  point 
which  cannot  be  admitted  until  it  has  been  established. 

In  regard  to  the  fourth,  fifth,  sixth,  and  seventh  of  the  arguments 
above  stated,  as  put  forward  by  the  representatives  of  different  schools 
or  opinions  in  favour  of  the  authority  of  the  Veda,  it  may  suffice  to 
say  that  they  for  the  most  part  assume  the  point  to  be  proved,  viz.  that 
the  Veda  did  proceed  from  an  omniscient,  or  at  least  a  competent, 
author.  The  only  exception  to  this  remark  is  to  be  found  in  the  reason- 
ing of  the  Nyaya  and  Sankhya  aphorisms  that  the  infallibility  of  the 
Vedas  is  shown  by  the  fact  that  the  employment  of  the  formulas  or 
prescriptions  of  those  parts  of  them  which  deal  with  temporal  results, 
such  as  can  be  tested  byt  experience,  is  always  found  to  be  effica- 
cacious  ;  a  premiss  from  which  the  conclusion  is  drawn  that  those  other 
parts  of  the  Veda,  which  relate  to  the  unseen  world,  must  be  equally 
authoritative,  as  the 'authors  of  these  different  parts  are  the  same  per- 
sons. This  argument  cannot  appear  convincing  to  any  but  those  who 
admit  first,  the  invariable  efficacy  of  all  the  formulas  and '/prescriptions 

See,  however,  the  comment  on  Brahma  Sutra,  i.  3,  30,  regarding  the  perpetual  recur- 
rence of  the  same  things  in  successive  creations  from,  and  to,  all  eternity,  which  will 
be  quoted  in  the  Appendix. 

184  See  Er.  Ballantyne'sfemarks  on  this  controversy,  in  pp.  186,  189,  191,  and  192 
of  his  "  Christianity  contfasted  with  Hindu  Philosophy." 


OF    THE    VEDAS,   HELD    BY    INDIAN    AUTHORS.  215 

> 

of  the  Veda  which  relate  to  such  matters  as  can  be  tested  by  experience, 
and  secondly,  the  identity  of  the  authors  of  the  parts  of  the  Veda  which 
contain  these  formulas  and  prescriptions  with  the  authors  of  the  other 
parts.  It  .would  be  impossible  to  prove  the  former  point,  and  next  to 
impossible  to  prove  the  latter. 

Against  the  eternity  of  the  Vedas  an  objection  hrfs  been  raised,  which 
Jaimini  considers  it  accessary  to  notice,  viz.  that  various  historical  per- 
sonages, are  name& ,  in  jtheir'  pages,  and  that  as  these  works  could  not 
have  existed  before  the  persons  whose  doings  they  record,  they  must 
have  commenced  to  exist  in  time.  This  difficulty  Jaimini  attempts,  as 
we  have  seen  above  (pp.  77  ff.),  to  meet  by  explaining  away  the  names 
'of  the  historical  personages  in  question.  Thus  Babara  Pravahini  is 
said  to  be  nothing  else  than  an  appellation  of  the  wind,  which  is 
eternal.  And  this  method,  it  is  said,  is  to  be  applied  in  all  similar 
cases.  Another  of  the  passages  mentioned  by  an  objector  (see  above, 
p.  79)  as  referring  to  non-eternal  objects  is  E.V.  iii.  53,  14,  "What 
are  the  cows  doing  for  thee  among  the  Kikatas  ?"  etc.  The  author  of  the 
Mimansa  Sutras  would  no  doubt  have  attempted  to  show  that  by  these 
Kikatas  we  are  to  understand  some  eternally  pre-existing  beings.  But 
Yaska,  the  author  of  the  Nirukta,  who  had  not  been  instructed  in  any 
any  such  subleties,  speaks  of  the  Kikatas  as  a  non-Aryan  nation. 
(Vol.  I.  p.  342,  and  Vol.  II.  p.  362.)  It  is  difficult  to  suppose  that 
Jaimini — unless  he  was  an  enthusiast,  and  not  the  cool  and  acute 
reasoner  he  has  commonly  proved  himself  to  be — could  have  seriously 
imagined  that  his  rule  of  interpretation  could  ever  be  generally  re- 
ceived or  carried  out.155  The  Brahmanas  evidently  intend  to  represent 
the  numerous  occurrences  which  they  narrate,  as  having  actually  taken 
place  in  time,  and  the  actors  in  them  as  having  been  real  historical 
personages.  '  See,  for  instance,  the  legends  from  the  S'atapatha  and  Ai- 
tareya  Brahmanas,  the  Taittariya  Sanhita,  etc.,  quoted  in  the  First 

is5  In  Sayana's  Introduction. to  R.V.  vol.  i.  p.  23,  it  is  said  :  Manushya-vrittanta- 
pratipadakati  rieho  narasamsyah  \  "  The  Naras'anisis  are  ve'rses  which  set  forth  the 
histories  of  men."  Yaska's  definition  is  the  same  in  substance,  Nir.  ix.  9.  If  these 
Naras'amsis  are,  as  Sayana  says,  verses  of  the  hymns  (richali),  and  if  according  to 
his  definition  their  object  is  to  record  events  in  human  history,  it  follows  that  they 
must  refer  to  non-eternal  objects.  See  also  the  explanation  of  the  words  riarasamsena 
slomena  in  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita,  3,  53,  given  by  the  Commentator  Mahidhara,  which 
will  be  quoted  further  on. 


216       OPINIONS    KEGARDIXG    THE    OEIGIN  OF  THE  VEDAS. 

Volume  of  this  work,  pp.  182,  192,  194,  328,  355,  etc.  And  it  is 
impossible  to  peruse  the  YecUc  hymns  without  coming  to  the  conclusion 
that  they  also  record  a  multitude  of  events,  which  the  writers  believed 
to  have  been  transacted  by  men  on  earth  in  former  ages.  (S(ee  the  pas- 
sages quoted  from  the  Eig-veda  in  the  First  and  Second  Yolumes  of  this 
work,  passim;  thoaa,  for  example,  in  Vol/I.  pp.  162  fft,  318  ff.,  339  ff., 
and  Vol.  II.  p.  208.)  .  s 

"We  shall,  no  doubt,  be  assisted  in  arriving  al^  a  covrect  conclusion  in 
regard  to  the  real  origin  and  character  of  the  hymns  of  the  Veda,  if 
we  enquire  what  opinion  the  rishis,  by  whom  they  were  confessedly 
spoken,  entertained  of  their  own  utterances  ;  and  this  I  propose  to  in- 
vestigate in  the  following  chapter.  .  ' 


• 
I 


217 


CHAPTER  II. 

THE  RISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD  TO  THE  ORIGIN 
OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS. 

I  HAVE  already  shewny  in  the  preceding  pages,  as  well  as  in  the  Second 
Volume  of  this  work,  that  the  hymns  of  the  Rig-veda  themselves  sup- 
ply us  with  numerous  data  by  which  we  can  judge  of  the  circum- 
stances to  which  they  owed  their  origin,  and  of  the  manner  in  which 
they  were  created.  We  have  seen  that  they  were  the  natural  product 
and  expression  of  the  particular  state  of  society,  of  the  peculiar  religious 
conceptions,  and  of  all  those  other  influences,  physical  and  moral,  which 
prevailed  at  the  period  when  they  were  composed,  and  acted  upon 
the  minds  of  their  authors.  (Vol.  I.  pp.  161  f.,  Vol.  II.  pp.  205  ff.;  and 
above,  pp.  211  f.)  We  find  in  them  ideas,  a  language,  a  spirit,  and  a 
colouring  totally  different  from  those  which  characterize  the  religious 
writings  of  the  Hindus  of  a  later  era.  They  frequently  discover  to  us 
the  simple  germs  from  which  the  mythological  conceptions  current  in 
subsequent  ages*were  derived, — germs  which  in  many  cases  were  de- 
veloped in  so  fanciful  and  extravagant  a  manner  as  to  shew  that  the 
simplicity  of  ancient  times  had  long  since  disappeared,  to  make  way  for 
a  rank  ana  wild  luxuriance  of  imagination.  They  afford  us  very  *is- 
tinct  indications  of  the  locality  in  which  they  were  composed  (Vol.  II. 
Pp.  354-372) ;  they  shew  us  the  Aryan  tribes  living  in  a  state  of  war- 
fare with^  surrounding  .enemies  (some  of  them,  probably,  alifin  in  race 
and  language),  and  gradually,  as  we  may  infer,  forcing  their  way  on- 
ward to  the  east  and  south  (Vol.  II.  pp.  374 ff.,  384 ff.,  414  ff);  they 
supply  us  with  numerous  specimens  of  the  particular  sorts  of  prayers 
viz.  for  protection  and  victory,  which  men  so  circumstanced  would  na- 
turally address  to  the  gods  whom  they  worshipped,  as  weS.  as  of  those 


218          THE  EISHIS,  AND   THEIR   OPINIONS   IN   REGARD 

more  common  supplications  which  men  in  general  offer  up  for  the 
various  blessings  which  constitute  the  sum  of  human  welfare  ;  and  they 
bring  before  us  as  the  objects  of  existing  veneration  a  class  of  deities 
(principally,  if  not  exclusively,  personification?  of  the  elements,  and  of 
the  powers  either  of  nature,  or  of  reason)  who  gradually  lost  their  im- 
portance in  the  estimation  of  the  later  Indians,  and  made  way  for  gods 
of  a  different  description,  invested  with  new  attributes,  and  in  many 
cases  bearing  new  appellations.  t  <-  r  « 

These  peculiarities  of  the  hymns  abundantly  j  fistify  us  in  regarding 
them  as  the  natural  'product  and  -spontaneous  representation  of  the 
ideas,  feelings,  and  aspirations  of  the  bards  with  whose  names  they  are 
connected,  or  of  other  ancient  authors,  while  the  archaic  forms  of  the 
dialect  in  which  they  are  composed,  and  the  references  which  are  made 
to  them,  as  pre-existent,  in  the  liturgical  works  by  which  they  are  ex- 
pounded and  applied,  leave  no  reason  for  doubt  that  they  are  the  most 
ancient  of  all  the  Indian  Scriptures. 

"We  can  also,  as  I  have  shewn,  discover  from  the  Vedic  hymns  them- 
selves, that  some  of  them  were  newer  and  others  older,  that  they  were 
the  works  of  many  successive  generations  of  poets,  that  their  com- 
position probably  extended  over  several  centuries,  and  that  in  some 
places  their  authors  represent  them  as  being  the  productions  of  their 
own  minds,  while  in  other  passages  they  appear  to  ascribe  to  their  own 
words  a  certain  divine  character,  or  attribute  their  composition  to  some 
supernatural  assistance.  (Vol.  I.  p.  4,  and  II.  pp.  206  ff.,  219  ff.) 

I  shall  now  proceed  to  adduce  further  proofs  from  the  hymns  of  the 
Big-veda  in  support  of  these  last  mentioned  positions  f  repeating,  at  the 
same  time,  for  the  sake  of  completeness,  the  texts  which  I  have  already 
cited  in  the  Second  Volume. 


SECT.  I.  —  PassagesJ'rom  the  Hymns  of  the  Veda  which  distinguish 

between  the  RisJiis  as  Ancient  and  Modern. 

'  * 

The  appellations  or  epithets  applied  by  the  authors  of  the  hymns  to 
themselves,  and  to  the  sages  who  in  former  times  had  instituted,  as 
well  as  to  their  contemporaries  who  continued  to  conduct,  the  different 
rites  of  divine  worship,  are  the  following  :  rishi,  kavi,  medhdvin,  vipra, 


TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  219 

i 

vipa&hit,  vedhas,  muni,  etc.  The  rishis  are  defined  in  Bb'htlingk  and 
Roth's  Lexicon,  to  be  persons  "who,  whether  singly  or  in  chorus,  either 
on  their  own  behalf  or  on  behalf 'of  others,  invoked  the  gods  in  artificial 
language,  and  in  song ;",  and  the  word  is  said  to  denote  especially  "  the 
priestly  bards  who  made  this  art  their  profession."  The  word  Icavi 
means  "wise,'!,  or  "a  poet',''  and  has  ordinarily,  the  latter  sense  in 
mod'ern  Sanskrit. ,  TQpra  means  "  wist?,"  and,  in  later  Sanskrit,  a  "Brah- 
man; "  medhavi'A  .means  '  ^intelligent;  "  vipaschit  and  vedhas,  "wise  " 
or  "learned."  Mufti  signifies  in  modern  Sanskrit  a  "sage"  or  "devo- 
tee." It  is  not  much  used  in  the'Rig-veda,  bitt  occurs  in  viii.  17,  13 
(Vol.  II.  p.  397). 

The  following  passages  from  the  Rig-veda  either  expressly  distinguish 
between  contemporary  rishis  and  those  of  a  more  ancient  date,  or,  at 
any  rate,  make  reference  to  the  one  or  the  other  class.  This  recognition 
of  a  succession  of  rishis  constitutes  one  of  the  historical  elements  in  the 
Veda.  It  is  an  acknowledgment  on  the  part  of  the  rishis  themselves 
that  numerous  persons  had  existed,  and  events  occurred,  anterior  to 
their  own  age,  and,  consequently,  in  time  ;  and  it  therefore  refutes,  by 
the  testimony  of  the  Veda  itself,  the  assertion  of  Jaimini  (above,  pp. 
77  ff.)  that  none  but  eternally  pre-existing  objects  are  mentioned  in 
that  book. 

If,  under  this  and  other  heads  of  my  inquiry,  I  have  cited  a  larger 
number  of  passages  than  might  have  appeared  to  be  necessary,  it  has 
been  done  with  the  intention  of  showing  that  abundant  evidence  of  my 
various  positions  can  be  adduced  from  all  parts  of  the  Hymn- collection.1 

R.  V.  i.  1,  2.  Agnih  purvebhir  rishibhir  Idyo  nutanair  uta  \  so,  devan 
eha  vaTcshati  \ 

"  Agni,  who  is  worthy  to  be  celebrated  by  former,  as  well  as  modern 
rishis,  will  bring  the  gods  hither." 

The  word  purvebhih  is  explained  by  Sayana  thus :  Purdtanair  Bhrigv- 
angirah-prabhritibhir  rishibhih  \  "By  the  ancient  rishis,  Bhrigu,  An- 
giras,"  efc. ;  and  ndtcMMh  is%  interpreted  by  idariintanair  asmabhir  api, 
"by  us  of  the  present  day  also."  See  also  Niruk'ta,  vii.  16. 

1  I  have  to  acknowledge  the  assistance  kindly  rendered  to  me  by  Prof.  Aufrecht 
in  the  revision  of  my  translation  of  the  passages  quoted  in  this  and  the  following 
sections.  As,  however,  the  texts  are  mostly  quite  clear  in  so  far  as  regards  the  points 
•which  they  are  adduced  to  prove,  any  inaccuracies  with  which  I  may  be  chargeable 
in  other  respects  are  of  comparatively  little  importance. 


220         THE  RISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  EEGAED 

i.  45,  3.  Priyamedha-vad  Atri-vaj  Jdtavedo  Virupa-vat  \  Angiras-vad 
mahi-vrata  Praslcanvasya  srudhi  havam  \  4.  Mahi-kercrvah  utaye  Priya- 
medhdh  ahushata,  \ 

"  0  (god)  of  great  power,  listen  to  the  invocation  of  Praskanva,  as 
thou  didst  listen  to  Priyamedha,  Atri,  Virupa,  and  Angiras.  4.  The 
Priyamedhas,  skilled-in  singing  praises,  have  invoked  thee." 

Here  Praskanva  is  referred  to,  in  verse  3,  as  alive,4  whilst  Priyamedha, 
Atri,  Virupa,  and  Angiras  belong*  to  the  past.  la  verse  4  the  de3cend- 
ants  of  Priyamedha  are  however  alluded  to  as  existing.  The  three 
other  names  are  also,  no  doubt,  those  of  families.  In  R.V.  iii.  53,  7, 
(see  Vol.  I.  p.  341)  the  Virupas  appear  to  be  referred  to  ;  while  in  viii. 
64,  6  (which  will  be  quoted  below),  a  Virupa  is  addressed.  In  v.  22,  4, 
the  Atris  are  spoken  of. 

i.  48,  14.   Ye  chid  hi  tvdm  risnayah  purve  utaye  juhure  ityddi  \ 

"  The  former  rishis  who  invoked  thee  for  succour,"  etc. 

i.  80,  16.  Yam  Atharvd  Mianush  pita  Dddhyan  dhiyam  atnata  \  tas- 
min  brahmani  purvathd  Indre  ukthd  samagmata  ityddi  \ 

"  In  the  ceremony  [or  hymn]  which  Atharvan,  or  our  father  Manu, 
or  Dadhyanch  performed,  the  prayers  and  praises  were,  as  of  old,  con- 
gregated in  that  Indra,"  etc. 

i.  118,  3  (repeated  in  iii.  58,  3).  Ahur  viprdsah  Asvind  purdjah  \ 

11 0  Asvins,  the  ancient  sages  say,"  etc. 

i.  131,  6.  A  me  asya  vedhaso  namyaso  manma  srudhi  naviyasah  \ 

"Hear  the  hymn  of  me  this  modern  sage,  of  this  modern  [sage]." 

i.  139,  9.  DadhyanhamejanushampurvoAngirdhPriyamednahKamo 
Atrir  Manur  vidur  ityddi  \ 

11  The  ancient  Dadhyanch,  Angiras,  Priyamedha,  Kanva,  Atri,  and 
Manu  know  my  birth." 

i.  175,  6.  Yathd  purvebhyo  jaritribhyah  Indra  mayah  iva  dpo  na  tri- 
shyate  babhutha  \  Tdm  anu  tvd  nividam  johdvlmi  ityddi  \ 

"Indra,  as  thou  hast  been  like  a  joy  to  former  worshippers  who 
praised  thee,  like  waters  to  the  thirsty,  I.  invoke  tnee  again  and  again 
with  this  hymn,"  etc. 

iv.  20,  5.  Vi  yo  rarapse  rishibhir  navebhir  vriksho  na  pakvah  srinyo 
na  jetd  \  maryo  na  yoshdm  abhi  manyamdno  achhd  vivalcmi  puruhutam 
Indram  \ 

"  Like  a  man  desiring  a  woman,  I  call  hither  that  Indra,  invoked  by 


TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  221 

many,  who,  like  a  ripe  tree,  like  a  conqueror  expert  in  arms,8  has 
been  celebrated  b^  recent  rishis." 

iv.  50,  1.  Tarn  pratndsah  riskayo  dldhydndh  puro  viprdh  dadhire 
mandra-jibvam  \  * 

"  The  ancient  rishis,  resplendent  and  sage,  have  placed  in  front  of 
them  [Brihaspati]  with  gladdening  tongue." 

v.  42,  6 '.$&  te  purve  Maghavan  net  apardso  na  vlryam  nutanah 

Jcaschana  dpa  \     "  >•     .  * 

*  ••* 

"•"^either  the  ancients  nor  later  men,  nor  -any  modern  man,  has  at- 
tained to  [conceived]  thy  prowess,  o  Maghavan." 

x.  54,  3.  Ke  u  nu  te  mahimanah  samasya  asmat  purve  rishayo  antam 
'  dpuh  |  yad  mdtaram  ch»  pitaram  cha  sdkam  ajanayathds  tanvdh  svdydh  \ 

"Who  among  the 'rishis  who  were  before  us  have  attained  to  the 
end  of  all  thy  greatness  ?  for  thou  didst  at  once  produce  from  thy  own 
body  both  the  mother  and  the  father  (earth  and  heaven)." 

vi.  19,  4.  Yathd  chit  purve  jaritdrah  dsur  anedydh  anavadydh  arishtdh  \ 

"As  [Indra's]  former  worshippers  were,  [may  we  be]  blameless, 
irreproachable,  and  unharmed." 

vi.  21,  5.  Ida  hi  te  vevishatah  purdjuh  pratndsah  dsuh  purulcrit  sakhd- 
yah  |  Te  madhyamdsah  uta  nutandsah  utdvamasya  puruhuta  lodhi  \ 

11  For  now,  o  energetic  god,  men  are  thy  worshippers,  as  the  ancients 
born  of  old  and  the  men  of  the  middle  and  later  ages  have  been  thy 
friends.  And,  o  much-invoked,  think  of  the  most  recent  of  all." 3 

vi.  21,  1.  Satusrudhi  Indranutanasyabrahmanyatovlrakdr'udhdyah  \ 

"Heroic  Indra,  supporting  the  poet,  listen  to  the  modern  [bard]  who 
wishes  to  celebrate  thee." 

vi.  22,  2.  Tarn  u  nah  purve  pitaro  navagvdh  sapta  viprdsah  alhi  vdja- 
yantah  ityddi  \ 

"  To  Him  (Indra)  our  ancient  fathers,  the  seven  Navagva  sages,  de- 
siring food,  (resorted)  with  their  hymns,"  etc.  » 

vi.  50,  15.  Evd  napdto  mama  tasya  dhllhir  Bharadvdjdh  alhyarchanti 

•*      > 
arkaih  \   -»  <•  , 

"Thus  do  the  Bharadvajas  my,  grandsons,  adore  thee  with  (my  ?) 
hymns  and  praises."  , 

2  Prof.  Aufrecht  thinks  srinyo  najeta  may  perhaps  mean,  "  like  a  winner  of  sickles 
(as  a  prize)."  * 

3  This  verse  is  translated  in  Benfey's  Glossary  to  the  Sama-veda,  p.  76,  col.  i. 


222  THE  EISHIS,  AND  THEIE  OPINIONS  IN  KEGARD 

vii.  18,  1.  Tve  ha  yat  pitaras  chid  nah  Indra  visvd  vdmdjaritdro  asan- 
vann  ityddi  \  *  < 

"  Since,  in  thee,  o  Indra,  even  our  fathers,  thy  worshippers,  obtained 
all  riches,"  etc. 

vii.  29,  4.  TJto  gha  te  purushydh  id  dsa*>,  yeshdm  purveshdm  asrinor 
rishlndm  \  adha  aham  tvd  Maghavan  johavlmi  tvam  nah  Ihdra  asi  prama- 
tihpiteva  \ 

"  Even  they  were  of  mortal  birth, — those  fartnei*  rishis  whqm  thou 
didst  hear.  I  invoke  the"e  again  and  again,  o  Maghavan ;  thou  .ci"t  to 
us  wise  as  a  father." 

vii.  53,  1 Te  chid  hi  purve  kavayo  grinantah  puro  mahl  dadhire 

devaputre  \ 

"The  ancient  poets,  celebrating  their  praises,  have  placed  in  the 
front  these  two  great  [beings,  heaven  and  earth]  of  whom  the  gods  are 
the  children." 

vii.  76,  4.  Te  id  devdndm  sadhamddah  dsann  ritdvdnah  Icavayah  pur- 
vydsah  \  gulham  jyotih  pitaro  anvavindan  satya  -  mantrdh  ajanayann 
ushdsam  \ 

"They  shared  in  the  enjoyments  of  the  gods,  those  ancient  pious 
sages.  Our  fathers  discovered  the  hidden  light ;  with  true  hymns  they 
caused  the  dawn  to  arise." 

vii.  91,  1.  Kuvid  anga  namasd  ye  vridhiisah  purd  devdh  anavadydsah 
dsan  |  te  Vdyave  Manave  Iddhitdya  avdsayann 4  ushasam  suryena  \ 

"  Certainly  those  gods  who  were  formerly  magnified  (or  grew)  by 
worship  were  altogether  blameless.  They  lighted  up  the  dawn  and 
the  sun  to  Vayu  (Ayu?)  and  the  afflicted  Manu."  (See  Yol.  I.  p.  172.) 

viii.  36,  7.  S'ydvdsvasya  svnvatas  tathd  srinu  yathd  asrinor  Atreh 
karmdni  Jcrinvatah  \  , 

"  Listen  to  S'yavasva  pouring  forth  libations,  in  the  same  way  as 
thou  didst  listen  to  Ati'i  when  he  celebrated  sacred  rites."  5 

ix.  96,  11.  Tvayd  hi  nah  pitarah  Soma  purve  karmdni  chakruh  pava- 
mdna  dhlrdh  |  <  '  c 

"  For  through  thee,  a  pure  Soma,  our  wise  forefathers  of  old  per- 
formed their  sacred  rites." 


4  See  Benfey's  Glossary  to  Sama-veda,  under  the  word  vas  2. 

5  Compare  viii.  $5,'  19  ;  and  viii.  37,  7. 


Td   THE   ORIGIN   OF  THE   VEDIC   HYMNS.  223 

ix.  110,  7.  Tve  Soma  prathamdh  vrikta-varhisho  make  vdjdya  sravase 
dJiiyam  dadhuh  \  r 

"The  former  [priests]  having  .strewed  the  sacred  grass,  offered  up  a 
hymn  to  tlaee,  o  Soma,  for  great  strength  and  food." 

x.  14,  15  (=A.V.  xviii.  2,  2).  Idam  namah  rishibhyah  purvajebhyah 
pathikridbhyah  \ 

"  This  reverence  to  the  rishis,  horn  of  old,  the  ancients,  who  showed 
us  the  i-oad."  (Thie  verse  may  also  be  employed  to  prove  that  at  the 
end  o£the  Yedic  period  the  rishis  had  become -objects  of  veneration.) 

x.  66,  14.  Vasishthtisah  pitrivad  vdcham  alcrata  devdn  ildndh  rishi- 
vad  |  ityddi  \ 

"The  Vasishthas,  like  the  forefathers,  like  the  rishis,  have  uttered 
their  voice,  worshipping  the  gods." 

x.  67,  1 — will  be  quoted  in  a  following  section. 

x.  96,  5.  Tvam  aharyathdh  upastutah  purvebhir  Indra  harikesa  yaj- 

f 

vabhih  \ 

"Indra,  with  golden  hair,  thou  didst  rejoice,  when  lauded  by  the 
ancient  priests." 

x.  98,  9.  Tvdm  purve  rishayo  glrlhir  dyan  tvdm  adhvareshu  puruhuta 
visve  \ 

" To  thee  the  former  rishis  resorted  with  their  hymns;  to  thee,  thou 
much  invoked,  all  men  [resorted]  at  the  sacrifices." 

Yajasaneyi  Sanhita,  xviii.  52.  Imau  te  pak&hav  aja/rau patatrinau  ya- 
Wiyam  rakshamsi  apahamsi  Agne  \  tulhydm  patema  sukritam  u  lokam 
yatra  rishayo  jagmuh  prathamajuh purdnah  \ 

"  But  these  undecayin'g,  soaring  pinions,  with  which,  o  Agni,  thou 
slayest  the  Eakshases, — with  them  let  u£  ascend  to  the  world  of  the 
righteous,  whither  the  earliest-born  ancient  rishis  have  gone."  (This 
verse  is  quoted  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  ix.  4,  4,  4,  p.  739.) 

The  ancient  rishis,  as  Sayana  says  in  his  note  on  R.V.  i.  2,  were 
Bhrigu,  Angiras,  and  others  whom  he  does  not  name.  In  another  place 
we  find  -itharvan,  iframu,  Dadhyanch,  and  others  mentioned.  I  will 
not  here  enter  into  any  particulars  Regarding  these  ancient  sages.  For 
some  texts  relating  to  Bhrigu,  I  may  refer  to  the  First  Volume  of  this 
work,  pp.  443  ff. ;  and  various  passages  relating  to  Manu  will  be  found 

in  the  same  volume  pp.  162ff.,  and  in  pp.  324-332  of  the  Second 

*» 
Volume.     In  regard  to  Atharvan,  as  well  a§  ingiras,  Professor  Gold- 


224         THE  RISHIS,  AND  THEIE  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

stacker's  Sanskrit  and  English  Dictionary,  and  in  regard  to  the  same 
personages  and  Dadhyanch,  the  Sanskrit  and  German  Lexicon  of  Boeht- 

lingk  and  Roth,  may  be  consulted.      a 

i 

SECT.  II. — Passages  from  the  Veda  in  v^hich  a  distinction  is  drawn 
between  the  older  and  the  more  recent  hymns. 

From  the  passages  which  I  propose  to  bring  forward  in  the  present 
section,  it  will  be  found  that  the  hymns  which  "fee  rishis  addressed  to 
the  gods  are  frequently  spoken  of  ?s'new,  while  others  of  anciefft  date 
are  also  sometimes  mentioned.  The  rishis  no  doubt  entertained  the 
idea  that  the  gods  would  be  more  highly  gratified  if  their  praises  were 
celebrated  in  new,  and  perhaps  more  elaborate  and  beautiful  composi- 
tions, than  if  older,  and  possibly  ruder,  prayers  had  been  repeated. 

The  fact  that  a  hymn  is  called  new  by  its  author,  does  not,  however, 
by  any  means  enable  us  to  determine  its  a£e  relatively  to  that  of  other 
hymns  in  the  collection,  for  this  epithet  of  new  is,  as  we  shall  see, 
applied  to  numerous  compositions  throughout  the  Yeda;  and  often 
when  a  hymn  is  not  designated  as  new,  it  may,  nevertheless,  be  in 
reality  of  recent  date,  compared  with  the  others  by  which  it  is  sur- 
rounded. When,  however,  any  rishi  characterizes  his  own  effusion  as 
new,  we  are  of  course  necessarily  led  to  conclude  that  he  was  acquainted 
with  many  older  songs  of  the  same  kind.  The  relative  ages  of  the 
different  hymns  can  only  be  settled  by  means  of  internal  evidence  fur- 
nished by  their  dialect,  style,  metre,  ideas,  and  general  contents ;  and 
we  may,  no  doubt,  hope  that  much  will  by  degrees  be  done  by  the 
researches  of  critical  scholars  towards  such  a  chronological  classification 
of  the  constituent  portions  ofthe  Eig-veda. 

The  hymns,  praises,  or  prayers  uttered  by  the  rishis  are'called  by  a 
great  variety  of  names,  such  as  rich,  sdman,  yajush,  brahman,  arka, 
uktha,  mantra,  manman,  mati,  manlshd,  sumati,  dhl,  dhiti,  dhishand, 
stoma,  stuti,  sushtuti,  prasasti,  samsa,  gir,  vdcb,vaohas,  nltha,  nivid,  etc. 

E.Y.  i.  12,  11.  Sa  nah  stavdnah  dlhara  gdyatrena  navlyasd  I  rayirh 
I'lravatlm  isham  \ 

"Glorified  by  our  newest6  hymn,  do'thou  bring  to  us  wealth  and 
food  with  progeny."  (Sayana  explains  navlyasd  by  purvakavr  apy 
asampdditenz.  gdyatrena  \  "  A  hymn  not  formed  even  by  former  rishis.") 

6  Compare  Psalms,  33,  3  ;"40,  3 ;  96,  1 ;  98,  1 ;  144,  9 ;  149,  1 ;  and  Isaiah,  42,  10. 


,  TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  225 

i.  27,  4.  Imam  u  shu  tvam  asmdkam  sanim  gdyatram  navydmsam  \ 
Agne  deveshu  prjivochah  \ 

11  Agni,  thou  hast  announced  £or  do  thou  announce]  among  the  gods 
this  our  c/ffering,  our  newest  hymn." 

i.  60,  3.  Tarn  navyasl  hridah  d  jdyamdnam  asmat  sukirttir  madhu- 
jihvam  asydh  \  yam  ritvijo  vrijane  md'iushdsah  prayasvantah  dyavo  jya- 
nanta  \ 

"  May  our  neweSt.-.Ja'udation  (springing)  from  (our)  heart,  reach  him, 
the  L^veet-tongued,  at  his  birth,  (him)  whom  mortal  priests  the  descend- 
ants of  Manu,  offering  oblations,  have  generated  in  the  ceremonial." 
(See  iii.  39,  1,  in  next  page,  and  i.  171,  2  and  ii.  35,  2,  which  will  be 
quoted  further  on  in  tKe  next  section). 

i.  89,  3.  Tdn  pur  v  ay  d  nividd  humahe  vayam  Bhagam  Mitram  Aditim 
Daksham  Asridham  ityddi  \ 

""We  invoke  with  an  ancient  hymn  Bhaga,  Mitra,  Aditi,  Daksha, 
Asridh  [or  the  friendly],"  etc.  (Purvakdlmayd  \  nityayd  \  nividd  \ 
veddtmikayd  vdchd  \  "  With  an  ancient — eternal,  hymn — a  Vedic 
text." — Sayana.) 

i.  96,  2.  Sa  purvayd  nividd  Jcavyatd  Ayor  imdh  prajdh  ajanayad  ma- 
nundm  \ 

"  Through  the  ancient  hymn,  the  poetic  work,  of  Ayu  he  (Agni) 
generated  these  children  of  men."  7 

i.  130,  10.  Sa  no  navyelhir  vrisha-karmann  ukthais  purdm  darttah 
pdyulhih  pdhi  sagmaih  \ 

"  Through  our  new  hymns,  do  thou,  vigorous  in  action,  destroyer  of 
cities,  sustain  us  with  invigorating  blessings." 

i.  143,  1.  Pra  tavyasim  navyaslm  dhltim  Agnaye  vacho  matim  sahasah 
sunave  bhari  \ 

"I  bring  to  Agni,  the  son  of  strength,  a  new  and  energetic  hymn,  a 
production  of  thought  uttered  by  the  voice  (vacflah)." 

ii.  17,  1.  Tad  asma\  navy  am  Angiras-vad  archata  ityddi  \ 

"  Utter  T;o  him  [Indra]  tha't  new  [hymn]  like1  Angiras."  ("]S"ew, 
i.e.  never  before  seen  among  other  jteople  "  an'yeshv  adrishta-purvam — 
Sayana.)  » 

ii.  18,  3.  Han  nu  kam  rathe  Indrasya  yojam  dyai  suktena  vachasd 
navena  \  mo  shu  tvdm  atra  bahavo  hi  viprdh  ni  rlraman  yajamundso  anye  \ 

7  See  the  Aitareya  Brahmana,  p.  143  of  Prof.  Haug's  translation  ;  and  Vol.  I.  p.  180. 

15 


226         THE  EISHIS,  AND   THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

"  With  this  new  and  well- expressed  hymn  I  have  yoked8  the  steeds 
in  Indra's  car,  in  order  that  he  may  come  hither.  Let  not  the  other 
wise  sacrificers,  who  are  numerous,  stop  thee  (from  coming  to  me)." 

ii.  24,  1.  Sa  imam  aviddhi  prabhritim  yah  Isishe  \  ayd  vi^hema  na- 
vayd  mahd  gird  \ 

"Do  thou  who  rulest  receive  this,  our  offering  [of  praise]  :  let  us 
worship  thee  with  this  new  and  grand  song^" 

iii.  1,  20.  Eld  teAgnejanimd  sandni  pra  purvydj/a,  nutandni  ijocham  \ 

"  These  ancient  [and  these]  new  productions  I  have  uttered  tc  ihee, 
Agni,  who  art  ancient."  (Comp.  H.V.  viii.  84,  5,  in  the  next  section.) 

iii.  32,  13.  Yah  stomelhir  vdvridhe  purvyebhir  j/o  madhyamebhir  uta 
nutanebhih  \ 

"  [Indra]  who  has  grown  through  (or  been  magnified  by)  ancient, 
intermediate,  and  modern  hymns." 

iii.  39,  1.  Indram  matir  hridah  d  vachyamdnd  achhti  patim  stoma- 
tashtd  jigdti  \  d  jdgrivir  vidathe  sasyamdnd  Indra  yat  te  jdyate  viddhi 
tasya  \  2.  Divas  chid  d  purvyd  jdyamdnd  vi  jdgrivir  mdathe  sasyamdnd  \ 
bhadrd  vastrdni  arjund  vasdnd  sd  iyam  asme  sanajd  pitryd  dhlh  \ 

"  1.  The  vigilant  hymn,  formed  of  praise,  and  uttered  from  the  heart, 
proceeds  to  Indra  the  lord,  when  chaunted  at  the  sacrifice :  be  cogniz- 
ant, Indra,  of  this  [praise]  which  is  produced  for  thee.  2.  Produced 
even  before  the  daylight,  vigilant,  chaunted  at  the  sacrifice,  clothed  in 
beautiful  and  radiant  garments, — this  is  our  ancient  ancestral  hymn." 
(Pitryd  is  rendered  by  Sayana  as  pitri-kramdgatd,  "  received  by  suc- 
cession from  our  fathers.") 

iii.  62,  7.  Iyam  te  Pushann  dghrine  sushtutir  deva  navyasl  \  asmdbhis 
tubhyam  sasyate  \  <* 

"Divine  and  glowing  Pushan,  this  new  laudation  is  recited  by  us 
to  thee." 

v.  42,  13.  Pra  su  rmahe  susarandya  medhdm  giram  lhare  navya&lm 
jdyamdndm  \ 

"I  present  to  tho  mighty  protector  a  mental  production,  a  new  ut- 
terance [now]  springing  up." 

8  Compare  the  expressions  vacho-yuja  hari,  "brown  horses  yoked  by  the  hymn. 
(R.V.  viii.  45,  39 ;  viii.  87,  9) ;  brahma-yuj,  "yoked  by  prayer"  (i.  177,  2;  iii.  35, 
4  ;  viii.  1,  24  ',  viii.  2,  27 ;  vi;i.  17,  2) ;  and  mano-yuj,  "  yoked  by  the  mind,  or  will " 
(i.  14,  6;  i.  51,  10;  iv.  48,  4;  v.  75,  6;  viii.  5,  2). 


t  TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  227 

v.  55,  8.  Yat  purvyam  Maruto  yach  cha  nutanam  yad  udyate  Vasavo 
yach  cha  Sasyate  j'  visvasya  tasya  lhavatha  navedasah  \ 

"  Be  cognizant  of  all  that  is'  ancient,  Maruts,  and  of  all  that  is 
modern,  o?  all  that  is  spoken,  Yasus,  and  of  all  that  is  recited." 

vi.  17,  13 Suvlram  >tvd  svdyudham  suvajram  a  brahma  navy  am 

n  * 

avasetvavritydt  \  • 

"May  the  new* prayer  impel  thee,  the  heroic,  well-accoutred,  the 
loud- thundering,  to'succour  us."  ("  E"ew,  i.e.  never  made  before  hy 
others  >  prayer,  i.e.  the  hymn  made,  by  us "  N&tanam  anyair  akrita- 
purvam  \  brahma  asmdbhih  kritam  stotram — Sayana.) 

vi.  22,  7.  Tarn  vo  flhiyd  navyasyd  savishtham  pratnam  pratna-vat 
paritamsayadhyai  \ 

"I  seek,  like  the  ancients,  to  stimulate  thee,  the  ancient,  with  a 
new  hymn." 

vi.  34,  1.  Sam  cha  tve  jatynur  girah  Indra  purvlr  vi  cha  tvad  yanti 
vibhvo  mamshdh  \  purd  nunam  cha  stutayah  rishindm  paspridhre  Indre 
adhi  ukthdrkdh  \ 

"Many  songs,  Indra,  are  collected  in  thee;  numerous  thoughts  issue 
forth  from  thee ;  both  before  and  now  the  praises,  texts  and  hymns  of 
rishis  have  hastened  emulously  to  Indra." 

vi.  44,  13.  Yah  purvydlhir  uta  nutandlhir  girlhir  vdvridhe  grinatdm 
rishindm  \ 

"He  (Indra)  who  grew  through  the  ancient  and  modern  hymns  of 
lauding  rishis."  (See  K.V.  iii.  32,  13,  above  p.  223.) 

vi.  48,  11.  A  sakhdyah  sulardughdm  dhenum  ajadhvam  wpa  navyasd 
vachah  \  9 

"  Friends,  drive  hither  the  milch  cow  w^th  a  new  hymn." 

vi.  49,  1 .  *  Stushe  janam  suvratam  navyasllhir  glrbhir  Mitrdvarund 
sumnayantd  \ 

"  With  new  praises  I  celebrate  the  righteous  race,  with  Mitra  and 
Varuna,  the  beneficent"  ,("The  well-acting  race,  i.e.  the  divine  race, 
the  company  of  the  gods,"  sukarmdnam  janam  daivyam  janam  deva- 
sangham — Sayana.) 

vi.  50,  6.  Abhi  tyam  vlram  girvanasam  archa  Indram  Irahmand  jari- 
tar  navena  \ 

"Sing,  o  worshipper,  with  a  new  hymn,  tq  the  heroic  »Indra,  who 
delights  in  praise." 

8  Compare  the  words  m  Agne  navyaaa  vachas  tanushu  samsam  esham,  viii.  39,  2. 


228         THE  RISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

vi.  62,  4.  Td  navyaso  jaramdnasya  manma  upa  bhushato  yuyujdna- 
saptl  ityadi  \  5.  Ta  valgu  dasrd  purusdkatamd  pratna  navyasd  vachasd 
vivdse  \ 

"  4.  These  (Asvins),  with  yoked  horses,  approach  the  hymn  of  their 
new  worshipper.  .....   5.  I  adore  with  a'  new  hymn  these  brilliant, 

strong,  most  mighty,  and  ancient°'(gods)." 

vii.  35,  14,  will  be  quoted  in  the  next  section.       t 

vii.  53,  2.  Pro,  purvaje  pitard  navyasilhir  girhkih  Icrinudhvam  sadane 
ritasya  ityadi  \  »  ' 

"In  the  place  of  sacrifice  propitiate  with  new  hymns  the  ancient, 
the  parents  "  (i.e.  Heaven  and  Earth),  etc. 

vii.  56,  23.  Bhuri  chakra  Marutah  pitrydni  vJcthdni  yd  vah  sasyante 
purd  chit  \ 

"  Ye  have  done  great  things,  o  Maruts,  when  our  fathers'  hymns 
were  recited  of  old  in  your  honour."  * 

vii.  59,  4 abhi  vah  dvartt  sumatir  navlya&i 10  tuyam  ydta  pipl- 

shavah  \ 

"May  the  new  hymn  turn  you  hither;  come  quickly,  desirous 
to  drink." 

vii.  61,  6 Pro,  vdm,  manmdni  richase  navdni  kritdni  brahma 

jujushann  imdni  \ 

"May  the  new  hymns  made  to  praise  you,  may  these  prayers  gra- 
tify you." 

vii.  93,  1.  S'uchiih  nu  stomam  nava-jdtam  adya  Indrdgril  Vrittra-hand 
jushetham  \  ubhd  hi  vdm  suhavd  johavlmi  ityddi  \ 

"Indra  and  Agni,  slayers  of  Yrittra,  receive  with  favour  the  pure 
hymn  newly  produced  to-da*y.  For  again  and  again  do  I  invoke  you 
who  lend  a  willing  ear,"  etc.  . 

viii.  5,  24.  Tdlhir  dydtam  utilhir  navyasibhih  susastibhih  yad  vdm 
vrishanvasu  huve  \ 

•"  Come  with  those  same  succours,  since  I  jnvoke  you,  bountiful 
[deities],  with  new"  praises."  (The  epithet  navyasibhih  in  this  text 
might  possibly  be  construed  with'the  word  utibhih,  "aids.") 

viii.  6,  11.  Aham  pratnena  manmand  girah  sumbhdmi  Kanva-vat  \ 
yena  Indrah  sushmam  id  dadhe  \ 

10  The  same  words,  sumati'  navlyasi,  occur  in  viii.  92,  9,  where  they  may  not  have 
the  same  sense  as  here. 


,  TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  229 

."I  decorate  my  praises  with  an  ancient  hymn,  after  the  manner  of 
Kanva,  whereby  «Indra  put  on  strength."  ' 

viii.  6,  43.  Imam  su  purvydnl  dhiyam  madhor  ghritasya  pipyushlm 
Kanvdh  uktliena  vavridhuh  \ 

"  The  Kanvas  with  their  praise  have  augmented  this  ancient  hymn, 
replenished  with  sweet  butter."  , 

viii.  12,  10.  lydm  te  ritviudvatl  dJiitir  eti  navlyasl  saparyanti  ityddi  \ 

"This  new  and  sfo'lgmn  hymn  advances  to  honour  thee,"  etc. 

viii. .20,  19.  Yunah  u  su  navishthayd  vrishnak,  pdvakdn  abhi  Solhare 
gird  |  gdya  ityddi  \ 

"Sing,  o  Sobhari, ^with  a  new  hymn  to  these  youthful,  vigorous, 
and  brilliant  (gods). 

viii.  23,  14.  S'rushtl  Agne  navasya  me  stomasya  vlra  vispate  vi  md- 
yinas  tapushd  rakshaso  daJia  \ 

"  Heroic  Agni,  lord  of  the  people,  on  hearing  my  new  hymn,  burn 
up  with  thy  heat  the  deluding  Rakshases." 

viii.  25,  24 Kasdvantd  viprd  navishthayd  mail  \  maho  vdjindv 

arvantd  sachd  asanam  \ 

"I  have  celebrated  at  the  same  time  with  a  new  hymn,  these  two 
sage  and  mighty  [princes],  strong,  swift,  and  carrying  whips." 

viii.  39,  6.  Agnir  veda  marltdndm  apichyam  ....  Agnir  dvdrd  vyiir- 
nute  svdhuto  navlyasd  \ 

"Agni  knows  the  secrets  of  mortals  ....  Agni,  invoked  by  a  new 
[hymn],  opens  the  doors." 

viii.  40,  12.  Eva  Indrdgnibhydm'  pitri  -  vad  navlyo  Mdndhdtri -  vad 
Angiras-vad  avdchi  ityddi  \ 

"  Thus  has  a  new  [hymn]  been  utteredHo  Indra  and  Agni  after  the 
manner  of  our  fathers,  and  of  Mandhatri,  and  of  Angiras." 

viii.  41,  2.  Tarn  u  shu  samand  gird  pitrlndm  cha  manmabhih  Ndbhd- 
kasya  prasastibhir  yah  sindhundm  upa  udaye  sapta-svasd  sa  madhyamah  \ 

"  [Worship]  him  (Varuna)  continually  with  a  song,  with  the  hymns  of 

the  fathers,11  and  with  tfie  praises  of  Nabhaka.     He  who  dwells  at  the 

.«  i 

11  The  expression  here  employed,  pitrlndm  cha  manmabhih,  occurs  also  in  R.V.  x. 
57,  3  (=Vaj.  S.  3,  53):  Mano  nu  a  huvamahe  narasamsena  somena  pitrlndm  cha 
manmabhih  \  "  "We  summon  his  soul  with  Soma,  accompanied  by  human  praises,  and 
with  the  hymns  of  the  fathers."  The  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita.  reads  stotntna,  "  hymn," 
instead  of  somena.  The  commentator  there  explains nara&umsena  stomena  as  "a  hymn 


230         THE  RISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

birth-place  of  the  streams,  the  lord  of  the  seven  sisters,  abides  in  .the 
centre."  (This  verse  is  qudted  in  the,  Mrukta  x.  5.  •  Nabhaka  is  said 
by  Yaska  to  have  been  a  rishi  (rishir  'Ndbhtiko  babhuva).  A  translation 
of  the  passage  is  given  in  Roth's  Illustrations' of  the  Mr.  p.  <135,  where 
reference  is  also  made  to  two  verses  of  tte  preceding  hymn  (viii.  40, 
4,  5),  in  which  Nabhaka  (the  anpestor  of  Nabhaka)  is 'mentioned  thus : 
(verse  4)  Abnyarcna  NabhdJca-vad  Indrdgnl  yajasd  cfira  ....  (verse  5) 
Pra  brahmdni  Nabhdka-vad  Indrdgnibhydm  irajyath  \  "  Worship  Indra 
and  Agni  with  sacrifice  'and  hymn,  like  Nabhaka  ....  Like  Kgbhaka, 
direct  your  prayers  to  Indra  and  Agni."  In  explanation  of  the  seven 
sisters,  Roth  refers  to  Mr.  v.  27  (R.Y.  viii.  58,  12)  where  the  seven 
rivers  are  mentioned.  See  his  Illustrations  of  Mr.  pp.  70,  71. 

viii.  44,  12.  Agnih  pratnena  manmand  Sumbhdnas  tanvam  svam  kavih 
viprena  vavridhe  \ 

"  The  wise  Agni,  illuminating  his  own  body  at  [the  sound  of]  the 
sage  and  ancient  hymn,  has  become  augmented." 

viii.  55,  11.  Vayam  gJia  te  apurvyd  Indra  brahmani  vrittrahan  \ 
purutamdsah  puruhuta  vajrivo  bJiritim  no.  pra  bhardmasi  \ 

"  Indra,  slayer  of  Vrittra,  thunderer,  invoked  of  many,  we  [thy] 
numerous  [worshippers]  bring  to  thee,  as  thy  hire,  hymns  which  never 
before  existed." 

viii.  63,  7,  8.  lyam  te  navyasl  matir  Agne  adhdyi  asmad  a  mandra 
sujdta  sukrato  amura  dasma  atithe  \  sa  te  Agne  santamd  chanishthd  bha- 
vatu  priyd  tayd  vardhasva  sushtutah  \ 

"0  Agni,  joyful,  well-born,  strong,  unerring,  and  wondrous  guest, 
this  new  hymn  has  been  offered  to  (or,  made  for)  thee  by  us ;  may 
it  be  dear  to  thee,  agreeal&le  and  pleasant :  lauded  by  it,  do  thou 
increase."  , 

viii.  65,  5,  6 Indram  girbhir  havamahe  \  Indram  pratnena  man- 
mand marutvantam  havdmahe  ityddi  \  12.  (=S.V.  ii.  340.)  Vdcham  ash- 
tu-padlm  aham  nava-sraktim  rita-sprisam  \  Indrdt  pari  tanvam  mame  \ 

"  5.  We  invoke  Indra  with  songs';  we  invoke  Indra,'-attended  by 
the  Maruts,  with  an  ancient  hymu.  ...  12.  I  compose  for  the  sake  of 

• 

in  which  men  are  praised,"  and  pitrlnam  cha  manmabhih,  as  hymns  "  in  which  the 
fathers  are  reverenced"  (pitaro  yaih  stotrair  manyante  te  manmanas  tair  ityadi}. 
See  Prof.  IVfex  MUller's  translation  of  this  hymn  in  the  Journal  of  Roy.  As.  Soc.  for 
1866,  pp.  449  and  458.  ' 


TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  231 

* 

Indra  a  hymn  of  eight  feet  and  nine  lines,  abounding  in  sacred 
truth."  (This  v£rse  is  translated  and  explained  by  Professor  Benfey, 
Sama-veda,  p.  255.)  \ 

ix.  9,  8^.  Nu  navyase  *navlyase  suktdya  sddhaya  pathah  |  pratna-vad 

rochaya  ruchah  | 

• 

"  Prepare  (o«Soma)  the  paths  for  our  newest,»most  recent,  hymn ; 
and,'  as  of  old,  cause  the  lights  to  shine." 

ix.  42,  2.  EsJJtt^prqtnendt  manmann  devo  devebhyah  pari  |   dhdrayd 

pavate  sutah  \  . 

•  t 

"  This  god,  poured  forth  to  the  g"ods,  with  an  ancient  hymn,  purifies 
with  his  stream." 

ix.  91,  5.  Sa  pratn$-vad  navyase  visva-vdra  suktdya  pathah  Jcrimhi 
prdchah  ityddi  [ 

"  0  god,  who  possessest  all  good,  make,  as  of  old,  forward  paths  for 
this  new  hymn." 

ix.  99,  4  (=  S.Y.  ii.  9835-  Tarn  gdthayd  purdnyd  pundnam  abhi  anu- 
shata  |  uto  Jcripanta  dhitayo  devdndm  ndma  lilhraiih  | 

"They  praised  the  pure  god  with  an  ancient  song;  and  hymns  em- 
bracing the  names  of  the  gods  have  supplicated  him."  (Benfey  trans- 
lates the  last  clause  differently.) 

x.  4,  6 lyam  te  Agne  navyasl  mamshd  yulcshva  ratham  na  sucha- 

yadlhir  angaih  | 

"  This  is  for  thee,  Agni,  a  new  hymn :  yoke  thy  car  as  it  were  with 
shining  parts." 

x.  89,  3.  Samdnam  asmai  anapdvrid  archa  kshmayd  divo  asamam 
brahma  navyam  ityddi  | 

"  Sing  (to  Indra)  without  ceasing  a  new  hymn,  worthy  of  him,  and 
unequalled  in  earth  or  heaven."  • 

x.  91,  l5.  Imdm  pratndya  sushtutim  navlyaslm  vocheyam  asmai  usate 
srinotu  nah  |  , 

"  I  will  address  to  this  ancient  [deity]  my  new  praises,  which  he 
desires;  may  he  listen»tft  us." 

x.  96,  11 Navyam  navyam  haryasi  manma  nu  priyam  ityddi  | 

"  Thou  delightest  in  ever  new  hymns,  which  are  dear  to  thee,"  etc. 

x.  160,  5.  Asvdyanto  gavyanto  vdjayanto  havamahe  tvd  upa  gantavai 
u  |  dlhushantas  te  sumatau  navdydm  vayam  Indra  tvd  sunaih  huvema  | 

"  Desiring  horses,  cattle,  and  wealth,  we  iavoke  thee  to'^approach  us. 


232         THE   RISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

Paying  homage  to  th.ee  in  a  new  hymn,  may  we,  o  Indra,  invoke  thte 
auspiciously."  •  , 

f 

SECT.  III. — Passages  of  the  Rig-veda,  in  which  the  rishis  Describe 
themselves  as  the  composers  ff  the  hymns. 

r 

In  this  section  I  propose  to  quote,  first  of  all,  'those  passages  in 
which  the  rishis  distinctly  speak'  of  themselves  -as  the  authors  t>f  the 
hymns,  and  express  np  Consciousness  whatever  of  deriving  assistance 
or  inspiration  from  any  supernatural  source.  I  shall  then  adduce  some 
further  texts  in  which,  though  nothing  is  directly  stated  regarding  the 
composition  of  the  h^mns,  there  is  at  the  sanfe  time  nothing  which 
would  lead  the  reader  to  imagine  that  the  rishis  looked  upon  them  as 
anything  else  than  the  offspring  of  their  own  minds. 

I  shall  arrange  the  quotations  in  which  the  rishis  distinctly  claim 
the  authorship,  according  to  the  particular  verb  which  is  employed  to 
express  this  idea.  These  verbs  are  (1)  kri,  "to  make,"  (2)  taksh  (= 
the  Greek  Te/rraiVo/^at),  "to  fabricate,"  and  (3)  Jan,  "to  beget,  gene- 
rate, or  produce,"  with  others  which  are  less  explicit. 

I.  I  adduce  first  the  passages  in  which  (1)  the  verb  Jtri,  "to  make," 
is  applied  to  the  composition  of  the  hymns.  (Compare  R.V.  vii.  61,  €> 
already  quoted  in  the  last  section.) 

R.V.  i.  20,  1.  Ay  am  devdya  janmane  stomo  viprebhir  dsayd12  \  ak&ri 
ratna-dhdtamah  \ 

"  This  hymn,  conferring  wealth,  has  been  made  to  the  divine  race, 
by  the  sages,  with  their  mouth  [or  in  presence  of  the  gods]." 

i.  31,  18.  Etena  Agne  brahmand  vdvridhasva  saktl  vd  yat  te  chaTcrima 
vidd  vd  | 

"  Grow,  o  Agni,  by  this  prayer  which  we  have  made  to  thee  accord- 
ing to  our  power,  or  ouv  knowledge." 

i.,,47,  2 Kanvaso  vam  brahma  krinvanti  adhvare  teshdiHi  su 

srinutam  havam  \        ,  c  '• 

"  The  Kanvas  make  a  prayer  to  y«ou  :  hear  well  their  invocation." 

i.  61,  16.  Eva  te  hariyojand  suvrikti  Indra  Irahmdni Gotamdsahalcran  \ 

"Thus,  o  Indra,  yoker  of  steeds,  have  the  Gotamas  made  hymns  for 
thee  efiicacio^usly." 

12  See  the  note  on  vi.  32,  1,  below. 


TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  2.33 

i.  117,  25.  Etdni  vdm  Aivind  vlrydni  pra  purvydni  dyavah  avockan  \ 
brahma  krinvanto !?  vrishand  yuvabhydm  suvirdso  mdatham  a  vadema  \ 

"These,  your  ancient  exploits)  o  Asvins,  men  have  declared.  Let 
us,  who  are  strong  in  bald  men,  making  a  hymn  for  you,  o  vigorous 
gods,  utter  our  offering  of  praise." 

i.  184,  5.  Esh&vdm  stomo  Asvindv  akdri  mdnebhir  magJiavdnd  suvrikti  \ 

11  This  hymn  hae*efficaciously  been  made  to  you,  o  opulent  Asvins, 
by  the  Manas.  (Oompri.  1^9,  8;  171;  5;  182,  8;  184,  3.) 

ii.  39.  8.  Etdni  vdm  Asvina  vardhandni  brahma  stomam  Gritsama- 

,  • 

ddsah  akran  \ 

"  These  magnifying  prayers,  [this]  hymn,  o  Asvins,  the  Gritsamadas 
have  made  for  you."  '  •• 

iii.  30,  20.  Svaryavo  matibhis  tubhyam  viprdh  Indrdya  vdhah  Kusi- 
Icdsah  akran  \ 

"Aspiring  to  heaven,  the  sage  Kusikas  have  made  a  hymn,  with 
praises  to  thee,  o  Indra."  (^The  word  vdfah  is  stated  by  Sayana  to  be 
=  stotra,  "  a  hymn.") 

iv.  6,  11.  Akdri  Irahma  samidhdna  tulhyam  ityddi  \ 

"  0  kindled  [Agni],  a  prayer  has  been  made  to  thee." 

iv.  16,  20.  Eved  Indrdya,  vrishabhdya  vrishne  brahma  akarma  Bhri-* 
yavo  na  ratham  |  ....  21.  Akdri  te  harivo  brahma  navy  am  dhiyd  sydma 
rathyah  saddsdh  \ 

"  Thus  have  we  made  a  prayer  for  Indra,  the  productive,  the  vigorous, 

as  the  Bhrigus  [fashioned]  a  car 21.  A  new  prayer  has  been 

made  for  thee,  o  lord  of  steeds.  May  we,  through  our  hymn  (or  rite), 
become  possessed  of  chariots  and  perpetual  wealth." 

vi.  52,  2.  Ati  vd  yo  maruto  manyate  n<\  Irahma  vd  yah  kriyamdnaih 
ninitsdt  \  tapumshi  tasmai  vrijindni  santu  brahma-dvisham  dbhi  tarn 
sochatu  dyauli  \ 

"Whoever,  o  Maruts,  regards  himself  as  superior  to  us,  or  reviles 
the  prayer  which  is  being  made,  may  burning  injuries  be  his  lot;  may 
the  sky  sccrch  the  enemy  of  prayer.14  , 

13  The  reader  will  find  Prof.  Haug's  opiiSon  of  the  s*nse  of  this  phrase  in  p.  11  f. 
of  his  German  dissertation  "on  the,,  original  signification  of  the  word  brahma"  of 
which  the  author  has  heen  kind  enough  to  send  me  a  copy,  which  has  reached  me  as 
this  sheet  is  passing  through  the  press.     Prof.  Haug  mentions  R.V.  i.  88,  4 ;  vii. 
103,  8,  as  passages  (additional  to  those  I  have  given)  in  which  the  exjy^ssion  occurs. 

14  Translated  by  Prof.  Haug  in  the  Dissertation  abo>'e  Deferred  to,  p.  6. 


234         THE  RISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

vii.  35,  14.  Aditydh  Rudrdh  Vasavo  jushanta  (the  Atharva-veda  has 
jushantdm)  idam  brahma  krii/amtinam  navlyah  \  srinvontu  no  divydh,  pdr- 
thivdso  gojdtdh  ityddi  \ 

"  The  Adityas,  Eudras,  and  Vasus  receive  with  pleasure  this  new 
prayer  which  is  being  made.  May  the  gods  of  the  air,  the  earth,  and 
the  sky  hear  us." 

vii.  37,  4.  Vayam  nu  te  ddsvdmsah  sydma  brahtr.jr,krinvantah  ityddi  \ 

"  Let  us  offer  oblations  to  thpe,  making  prayers,!'  etc. 

vii.  97,  9.  lyam  vdm  firahmanaspate  suvriktir' orahma  Indrdya  vajrine 
aTcdri  \ 

"  Brahmanaspati,  this  efficacious  hymn,  [this]  prayer  has  been  made 
for  thee,  and  for  Indra,  the  thunderer." 

viii.  51,4.  Ay  alii  krinavdma  te  Indra  brahmdni  varddhand  ityddi  \ 

"  Come,  Indra,  let  us  make  prayers,  which  magnify  thee,"  etc. 

viii.  79,  3.  JBrahma,  te  Indra  girvanah  Tcriyante  anatidlJiutd  \  imd 
jushasva  haryasva  yojand  ycPte  amanmdhi\ 

"Unequalled  prayers  are  made  for  thee  Indra,  who  lovest  hymns. 
Receive  favourably,  lord  of  the  brown  steeds,  those  which  we  have 
thought  out  for  thee,  to  yoke  thy  horses." 

x.  54,  6 Adha  priyam  susham  Indrdya  mamma  Irahmakrito15 

Vrihadukthdd  avachi  \ 

"  .  .  An  acceptable  and  powerful  hymn  has  been  uttered  to  Indra 
by  Yrihaduktha,  maker  of  prayers. "1B 

x.  101,  2.  Mandrd  krinudhvam  dhiyah  d  tanudhvam  ndvam  aritra- 
paranwi  krinudhvam  \ 

"Make  pleasant  (hymns),  prepare  prayers,  make  a  ship  propelled  by 

oars." 

• 

It  is  possible  that  in  many  of  these  passages  the  verb  kri  may  have 
merely  the  signification  which  the  word  make  has  in  English  when  we 
speak  of  "making  supplications,"  etc.,  in  which  case  it  of  course  means 
to  offer  up,  rather  than  to  compose.  But  this  cannot  be  the  case  in  such 
passages  as  E.V.  iv.  16,  20  (p.  233),  w^here  cbe'rishi  speaks  of  making 

15  Compare  rishayo  manfy-akrito  marinshinah  in  Taittiriya  Brahmana,  ii.  8,  8,  5 ; 
and  R.V.  ix.  114,  2  :  Rishe  mantra-kritam  stomaihKasyapodvardhayam  girah  \somam 
namasya  rajanam  yo  jajne  vlrudham  patih  \  "  fiishi  Kas'yapa,  augmenting  thy  words 
with  the  praises  of  the  makers  of  hymns,  reverence  King  Soma,  who  was  born  the  lord 
of  plants." 

16  Prof.  Iftug  thinks  the  ,word  brahma-Jcrit  here  refers  to  hymns,  and  mentions 
other  passages  in  which  it  'occurs  :  see  p.  12  of  the  Dissertation  above  referred  to. 


TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  235 

* 

the,  hymn  as  the  Bhrigus  made  a  chariot.17  And  such  an  interpretation 
would  be  altogether  inadmissible  in  the  case  of  the  texts  which  I  next 
proceed  to  cite.  i 

II.  Passages  in  which  the  word  tafcsh,  "  to  fashion,  or  fabricate,"  is 
applied  to  the  composition  of  the  hymns. 

i.  62,  13.  SaTtdyate  Gotamah  Indra  navyam  ataltshad  Irahma  hariyo- 
jandya  ityddi  \  »"* 

"  Nodhas,  descendant  of  Orotama,  fashioned  this  new  hymn  for  [thee], 
Indra,^who  art  of  old,'  and  who  yokest  thy  stoeds,"  etc. 

i.  130,  6.  Imam  te  vdcham  vasuyantah  dyavo  ratham  na  dhlrah  sva- 
pdh  atakshishuh  sumndya  tvdm  atakshishuh  \ 

"  Desiring  wealth,' men  have  fashioned  for  thee  this  hymn,  as  a  skil- 
ful workman  [fabricates]  a  car ;  and  thus  they  have  disposed  (lit. 
fashioned)  thee  to  (confer)  happiness." 

i.  171,  2.  Esha  vah  stomo  Maruto  namasvdn  hridd  tashto  manasd 
dhdyi  devdh  \ 

"  This  reverential  hymn,  o  divine  Maruts,  fashioned  by  the  heart, 
has  been  presented  [or,  made]  by  the  mind.  [According  to  Sayana,  the 
last  words  mean,  'let  it  be  received  by  you  with  a  favourable  mind']." 

ii.  19,  8.  Evd  te  Gritsamaddh  sura  manma  avasyavo  na  vayunani 
takshuh  | 

"  Thus,  o  hero,  have  the  Gritsamadas,  desiring  succour,  fashioned, 
for  thee  a  hymn,  as  men  make  works."  (Sayana  explains  vayuna  by 
"road.") 

ii.  35,  2.  Imam  su  asmai  hridah  d  sutashtam  mantram  vochema  Tcuvid 
asya  vedat  \ 

"Let  us  address  to  him  this  well-fashioned  hymn  proceeding  from 
the  heart ;  will  he  not  be  aware  of  it  ? " 

v.  2,  11.  Etaiii  te  stomam  tuvi-jtita  vipro  ratham  na  dhlrah  svapdh 
ataksliam  \  • 

"I,  a  sage,  have  fabricated  this  hymn  for  thee,  o  powerful  [deity], 
as  a  skilfal  workman  fashions  a  car." 

v.  29,  15.  Indra  Irahma  kriyaiqdnd  jusha&va  yd  te  savishtha  navyd 
'•  akarma  \  vastreva  bhadrd  sukritd  vasuyuh  ratham  na  dhlrah  svapdh 
ataksham  \ 

17  See  also  v.  29,  15,  and  x.  39,  14,  which  will  be  quoted  a  little  further  on ;  and 
in  which  the  verbs  Jcri  and  taksh  are  both  employed.* 


. 
236         THE  RISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

"  0  mighty  Indra,  regard  with  favour  the  prayers  which  are  mcde, 
the  new  [prayers]  which  we-  have  made  for  thee.  Desirous  of  wealth, 
I  have  fabricated  them  like  beautiftu  well-fashioned  garments,  as  a 
skilful  workman  [constructs]  a  car."  (Compare  R.V.  iii.  39r2;  above, 
p.  226.) 

v.  73,  10.  Imd  brahmdni  vardhand  Asvibhydm  saniu,  iantamd  \  yd 
takshama  ratJidn  iva  avochdma  brihad  narnah  \ 

"  May  these  magnifying  prayers  which  we  have  fashioned,  like  cars, 
be  pleasing  to  the  Asvins:  we  have  uttered  great  adoration."  r 

vi.  32,  1  (— S.V.  i.  322).  Apurvyd  purutamdni  asmai  make  vlrdya 
tavase  turdya  \  mrapsinef  vajrine  santamdni  vachdmsia  dsd 18  sthavirdya 
taksham  \ 

"To  this  great  hero,  vigorous,  energetic,  the  adorable,  unshaken 
thunderer,  I  have  with  my  mouth  fabricated  copious  and  pleasing 
prayers,  which  have  never  before  existed." 

vi.  16,  47.  A  te  Agne  richd  havir  hridd  tashtam  bhardmasi  \ 

"  In  this  verse,  Agni,  we  bring  to  thee  an  oblation  fabricated  by  the 
heart."  (Comp.  R.V.  iii.  39,  1,  in  p.  226.) 

vii.  7,  6.  Ete  dyumnebhir  visvam  dtiranta  mantram  ye  vd  aram  narydh 
atakshan  \ 

11  These  manly  (Vasishthas),  who  have  skilfully  fabricated  the  hymn, 
have  by  their  energy  accomplished  all  things  (?)." 

vii.  64,  4.  Yo  vdm  garttam  manasd  tdkshad  etam  urddhvdm  dhltim 
krinavad  dhdrayach  cha  \ 

"  May  he  who  with  his  mind  fashioned  for  you  (Mitra  and  Varuna) 
this  car,  make  and  sustain  the  lofty  hymn."  (The  same  expression 
urddhvd  dhltih  occurs  in  ll.V.ri.  119,  2.) 

viii.  6,  33.  Uta  brahmanyd  vayam  tubhyam  pravriddha  vajrivo  viprdh 
atakshma  jlvase  \ 

"0  mighty  thunderec,  we,  who  are  sage,  have  fabricated  prayers  for 
thee,  that  we  may  live." 

x.  39,  14.  JStam  vdfh  stomam  Asvindv  ckarma'-aiakshdma  B'irigavo  no, 
ratham  \  ni  amrikshdma  yoshandm  n&;  rnaryye  nityam  na  sunum  tanayam 
dadhdnuh  \  4 

"This  hymn,  Asvins,  we  have  made  for  you;  we  have  fabricated  it 

18  On  the  sejise  of  asd  see  Prof.  Mutter's  article  in  the  Journal  of  Roy.  As.  Soc.  for 
1867,  p.  232  f. ;  and  Bohtlingk'and  Roth's  Lexicon,  s.v. 


* 
>  TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  237 

as  ih,e  Bhrigus  [constructed]  a  car;  we  have  decorated  it,  as  a  bride  for 
her  husband,  continuing  the  series  [of  ouY  praises]  like  an  unbroken 
line  of  descendants."  (See  iv.  ID,  20,  above,  p.  233.) 

(The  foHowing  is  Sayana's  comment  on  this  passage,  for  a  copy  of 
which  I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Mu'ller  :  He  A£vinau  vdm  yuvayor  etaih 
yathqktam  stomam  stotrqm  akarma  akvrma  \  Tad  etad  aha  \  Bhrigavo  na 
Bhrigavah  iva  rat'ftam  atakshdma  vayam  stotram  samskritavantah  \  karma- 
yogdd  *P>ilhavo  Bhfigabah  uchyante  \  'athavd  rathakdrdh  Bhrigavah  \ 
kincha  nayam  nityam  sdsvatam  tanayam  ydgddmdw  karmandm  tanitdram 
sunum  na  aurasam  putram  iva  stotram  dadhdndh  dhdrayanto  martye  ma- 
nushye  nyamrikshdma  yuvayoh  stutim  nitardm  samskritavantah  \  "  Asvins, 
we  have  made  this  preceding  hymn  or  praise  of  you.  He  means  to  say 
this.  Like  the  Bhrigus,  we  have  made  a  car,  we  have  carefully  con- 
structed a  hymn.  The  Ribhus  are,  in  this  passage,  ....  styled  Bhri- 
gus ;  or  Bhrigus  are  chariot-makers.  Moreover,  maintaining  praise  as 
a  constant  perpetuator  (like  a  legitimate  son)  of  sacrifice  and  other  rites, 
we  have  polished,  i.e.  carefully  composed  a  celebration  of  you  among 
men  [?]."  In  this  comment  the  word  yoshand  is  left  unexplained.  In 
verse  12  of  this  hymn  the  Asvins  are  supplicated  to  come  in  a  car 
fleeter  than  thought,  constructed  for  them  by  the  Bibhus — a  tena  ydtam 
manaso  javiyasa  rat  ham  yam  vdm  Rilhavas  chakrur  Asvina  \  .) 

x.  80,  7.  Agnaye  Brahma  Rilhavas  tatakshuh  \ 

"  The  Ribhus  [or  the  wise]  fabricated  a  hymn  for  Agni. 

III.  I  next  quote  some  texts  in  which  the  hymns  are  spoken  of  as 
being  generated  by  the  rishis.  (Comp.  R.V.  vii.  93,  1,  in  p.  228.) 

iii.  2,  1.  Vaisvdnardya  dhishanam  ritdvridhe  ghritam  na  putam  Agnaye 
jandmasi  \  * 

"We gewrate  a  hymn,  like  pure  butter,  for  Agni  Vaisvanara,  who 
promotes  our  sacred  rites." 

vii.  15,  4.  JYavam  nu  stomam  Agnaye  divah  syendya  jijanam  \  vasvah 
kuvid  vandti  nah  \  .,  , 

"I  have1  generated  a  new  hymn  to  Agni,  the  falcon  of  the  sky;  will 
he  not  bestow  on  us  wealth  in  abundance  ?  "  » 

vii.  22,  9.  Ye  cha  purve  riskayo  ye  cha  nutndh  Indra  Irahmdni  jana- 
yanta  viprdh  \ 

"Indra,  the  wise  rishis,  both  ancient  and  modern,  h^aye  generated 
prayers." 


I 

238         THE  RISHIS,  AND   THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGAKD 

vii.  26,  1.  Nasomah  Indram  asuto  mamdda  na  alrakmdno  maghavdwam 
sutdsah  \  tasmai  ukiham  jahaye  yaj  jujoshad  nricad  *naviyah  srinavad 
yathd  nah  \ 

"  The  soma  exhilarates  not  Indra  unless  it  be  poured  ott ;  nor  do 
libations  [gratify]  Haghavan  when  offered  .without  a  prayer.  To  him  I 
generate  a  hymn  such  as  may  please  him,  that,  after  the?  manner  of  men, 
he  may  hear  our  new  [production]." 

vii.  31,  11 Suvriktim  Indrdya  Irahma  fandyanta  vipreh  \ 

11  The  sages  generqteti  an  efficacious  ^production  and  a  prayer  for 
Indra." 

vii.  94,  1,  2  (—S.V.  ii.  266).  lyam  vdm  asya  manmanah  Indrdgnl 
purvya-stutir  abhrdd  vrishttr  na  ajani  \  srinutam  jaritur  havam  ityddi  \ 

"  This  excellent  praise  has  been  generated  for  you,  Indra  and  Agni, 
from  the  soul  of  this  [your  worshipper],  like  rain  from  a  cloud.  Hear 
the  invocation  of  your  encomiast."  (Benfey  thinks  manman,  "  spirit," 
is  to  be  understood  of  Soma,  whose  hymn,  i.e.  the  sound  of  his  drop- 
ping, resembles  the  falling  of  rain.  The  scholiast  of  the  S.V.  makes 
manman  =  stotri,  "  worshipper  ".) 

viii.  43,  2.  Asmai  te  pratiharyate  Jdtavedo  vicharshane  Agne  jandmi 
sushtutim  \ 

"  Wise  Agni  Jatavedas,  I  generate  a  hymn  for  thee,  who  receivest  it 
with  favour." 

viii.  77,  4.  A  tvd  ayam  arkah  utaye  vavarttati  yam  Gotamdh  ajljanan  \ 

"This  hymn  which  the  Gotamas  have  generated,  incites  thee  to 
succour  us." 

viii.  84,  4,  5.  S'rudhi  havam  TirascJiydh  Indra  yas  tvd  saparyati 
suvlryasya  gomato  rdyah  pufdhi  mahdn  asi  \  Indra  yas  te  naviyaslm 
giram  mandrdm  ajljanat  chikitvin-manasaih  dhiyam  pratndm  ritasya 
pipyushlm  \ 

"Hear,  Indra,  the  invocation  of  Tiraschi,  thy  worshipper;  replenish 
him  with  wealth  in  strong  men  and  in  cattle,  for  fhou  art  great.  Indra 
(do  this  for  him]  who  has  generated  for6  thee  Che  newest  exhilarating 
hymn,  springing  from  an  intelligent  mind,  an  ancient  mental  product, 
full  of  sacred  truth." 

(These  verses  occur  also  in  the  Sama-veda  ii.  233,  234,  and  are 
translated  by  Professor  Benfey,  at  pp.  230  and  250  of  his  edition, 
The  hymn  referred  to  in  this  passage  is  apparently  designated  as  both 


• 
>  TO  THE  ORJGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  239 

new.and  old.  How  can  it  be  both  ?  It  may  have  been  an  old  hymn 
re- written  and  embellished;  ancient  in  substance,  though  new  in  ex- 
pression.19 Compare  St.  John's  (iospel,  xiii.  34,  and  the  First  Epistle 
of  St.  John;  ii.  7,  8,  and  fii.  11.) 

ix.  73,  2 madhor  dhardbhir  janayanto  arlcam  it  priydm  Indra- 

sya  tanvam  avwr-bUfain  \ 

"  Generating  the-nymn,  they  have  augmented  the  beloved  body  of 
Indra  with  the  honied  streams."  ' 

ix.  95,  1  (=  S.Y.  i.  530) ato  matlr  jmiayata  svadhdbhih  \ 

"Wherefore  generate  hymns  with  the  oblations."  (Professor  Benfey 
makes  janayata  the  3rd  person  singular  of  the  imperfect  middle,  and 
applies  it  to  Soma.)  -•» 

x.  7,  2.  Imdh  Agne  matayas  tubhyam  jdtdh  gobhir  asvair  abhi  grinanti 
rddhah  \ 

"  These  hymns,  Agni,  generated  for  thee,  celebrate  thy  bounty  in 
cows  and  horses." 

x.  23,  5,  6,  7.  Yo  vdchd  vivdcho  mridhravdchah  puru  sahasrd  asivd 
jaghdna  \  Tat  tad  id  asya  paumsyam  grimmasi  pita  iva  yas  tavishlm  vd- 
vridhe  savah  \  6.  Stomam  te  Indra  Vimaddh  ajljanann  apurvyam  puruta- 
mam  suddnave  \  Vidma  M  asya  bhojanam  inasya  yad  d  pasum  na  gopdh 
Icardmahe  \  7.  Md  Mr  nah  end  sakhyd  viyaushus  tava  cha  Indra  Vimadasya 
cha  risheh  \  Vidma  hi  te  pramatim  devajdmi-vad  asme  te  santu  sakhyd 
sivdni  \ 

"  5.  Who  (Indra)  with  his  voice  slew  many  thousands  of  the  wicked 
uttering  confused  and  hostile  cries.  We  laud  his  several  acts  of  valour, 
who,  like  a  father,  grew  in  vigour  and  strength.  6.  For  thee,  o  Indra, 
who  art  bountiful,  the  Vimadas  have  geneyated  a  copious  hymn,  which 
never  before  existed  (apurvya] ;  for  we  know  that  it  is  gratifying  to  this 
mighty  god,  when  we  attract  him  hither  as  a  cowherd  drives  his 
cattle.  7.  Indra,  may  that  friendship  of  ours  never  be  dissolved,  which 
exists  between  thee  and  the  rishi  Yimada:  for  we  know  thy  wisdom, 
o  god  ;  mayHhy  friendship  be  favourable  to  us,  like,  that  of  a  kinsman." 

x.  67,  1.  Imam  dhiyam  sapta-slrshvim  pita  naji  ritaprajdtdm  Irihatlm 
avindat  \  turlyam  svij  janayad  visvajanyo  Aydsyah  uktham  Indrdya 


19  As  Prof.  Aufrecht  expresses  it :  "  Gir  is  opposed  to  dhl,  as  form,  to  substance 
a  new  utterance,  but  a  primordial  homage." 


240         THE  EISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

"  Our  father  hath  discovered  [or  invented]  this  great,  seven-headed 
hymn,  born  of  sacred  trutk ;  Ayasya,  friend  of  alt  men,  celebrating 
Indra,  has  generated  the  fourth  song  of  praise."  (In  his  Lexicon,  Both 
gives  Ayasya  as  a  proper  name;  but  says  it  may  also  be  aa  adjective 
with  the  sense  of  "unwearied.")  ^ 

x.  91,  14.  Klldlu-pe  soma-prishtdya  vedhase  hriddj.tatim  janaye  chd- 
rum  Agnaye  \ 

""With  my  heart  I  generate  u  beautiful  hymn  fur  Agni,  thp  drinker 
of  nectar,  the  soma-sprinkled,  the  wise."  (See  also  R.Y.  i.  109,  1,  2, 
which  will  be  quoted  below.) 

IY.  In  the  following  texts  the  verbal  root  ri,  "to  move,  send  forth," 
etc.,  used  with  or  without  a  preposition,  is  applied  to  the  utterance  or 
(it  may  even  mean)  the  production  of  hymns. 

i.  116,  1.  Ndsatydlhydm  larhir  iva  pravrinje  stomdn  iyarmi  abhriyd 
iva  vdtah  \  ydv  arlhagdya  Vimaddyajdydm  sendjutd  ni  uhatuh  rathena  \ 

"  In  like  manner  as  I  spread  the  sacrificial  grass  to  the  Nasatyas 
(Asvins),  so  do  I  send  forth  to  them  hymns,  as  the  wind  [drives]  the 
clouds ;  to  them  (I  say),  who  bore  off  to  the  youthful  Vimada  his  bride 
in  a  chariot  swift  as  an  arrow." 

vii.  61,  2.  Pro,  vain  sa  Mitrd-Varunau  ritdvd  vipro  manmdni  dlrgha- 
srud  iyartti  \  Yasya  brahmdni  suJcratu  avdthah  d  yat  kratvd  na  saradah 
prinaithe  \ 

"  The  devout  sage,  heard  afar  off,  sends  forth  his  hymns  to  you,  o 
Mitra  and  Yaruna.  Do  you,  mighty  gods,  receive  his  prayers  with 
favour,  so  that  for  (many)  autumns  ye  may  not  be  satiated  with  his 
fervour."  (See  Bb'htlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon,  s.v.  d  +  ^r*0 

viii.  12,  31.  Imam  te  Indra  sushtutim  viprah  iyartti  dhltilhih  \jdmim 
padd  iva  pipratlm  pia  adhvare  \ 

"  In  the  sacrifice  the  sage,  with  praises,  sends  forth  to  thee  this  hymn, 
which  is  of  kin  to  theo,  and,  as  it  were,  supplies  the  places  (of  others  ?) 

viii.  13,  26 Ritdd  iyarmi  te  dhiyam  manoyujam  \ 

"  .  .  .  .  From  theirSacred  ceremony  Ir send  forth  a  prayei  which  will 
attract  thy  heart."  «. 

x.  116,  9.  Pra  Indrdgnilhydm  suvachpsydm  iyarmi  sindhdv  iva  prera- 
yam  ndvam  arlcaih  \ 

"I  send  forth  a  [hymn]  with  beautiful  words  to  Indra  and  Agni; 
with  my  praises  I  have, 'as  it  were,  launched  a  ship  on  the  sea." 


TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  241 

(Compare  B..V.  ii.  42,  1,  spoken  of  Indra  in  the  form  of  the  bird 
called  Kapinjala,  #  sort  of  partridge :  lyartti  vdcham  ariteva  ndvam  \ 
"  It  sends  forth  a  voice,  as  a  rower  propels  a  boat."  See  also  R.V.  x. 
101,  2,  quoted  above,  p.  234.) 

.x.  4,  1.  Pro,  te  ydkshi  prq  te  iyarmi  manma  Ihuvo  yathd  vandyo  no 
haveshu  \  dhanv£?n  iva  prapd  asi  tvam  Agm  iyaka'ha'ee  purave  pratna 
rdjan  \  ""* 

"  I  offer  thee  worship,  I  send  forth  to  thee  a  meditation,  that  thou 
mayest  Jbe  accessible  to  adoration  in  our  invocations.  For  thou,  Agni, 
ancient  king,  art  like  a  trough  of  water  in  the  desert  to  the  man  who 
longs  for  thee." 

Y.  In  the  following  passages  other  verbs  are  employed  to  denote  the 
composition  or  presentation  of  hymns  : 

i.  61.  2.  Indrdya  hridd  manasd  manlshd  pratndya  patye  dhiyo  marja- 


"  To  Indra,  the  ancient  lord,  they  prepared  [or  polished]  hymns  [or 
ceremonies]  with  the  heart,  mind,  and  understanding." 

i.  61,  4.  Asmai  id  u  stomam  saihhinomi  ratham  na  tashtd  iva  ityddi  \ 

"  To  him  (Indra)  I  send  forth  a  hymn,  as  a  carpenter  a  car,"  etc. 

i.  94,  1  (=  S.V.  i.  66).  Imam  stomam  arhate  Jdtavedase  ratham  iva 
sam  mahema  mariishayd  \  lhadrd  hi  nah  pramatir  asya  samsadi  Agne 
salchye  md  rishdma  vayam  tava  \ 

"  Let  us  with  our  intellect  construct  (or,  send  forth]  this  hymn  for 
the  adorable  Jatavedas  like  a  car,  for  his  wisdom  is  favourable  to  us  in 
the  assembly.  Agni,  in  thy  friendship  may  we  never  suffer."  (The 
root  mah  means  to  honour  or  worship.20  The  reader  may  compare 
Benfey's  translation.)  * 

There  is  to  be  found  in  the  hymns  a  great  multitude  of  passages  in 
which  the  rishi  speaks  of  presenting  his  hymns  and  prayers  to  the 
various  deities  who  are  the  objects  of  his  worship,  without  directly 

claiming  for  himself  the  ftuthorship  of  those  compositions.    The  natural 

^     i  p 

inference  to  be  drawn  from  the-  expressions  which, we  shall  find  to  be 

employed  in  most  of  the  cases  to  whfch  I  refer,, would,  I  think,  be  that 
the  personality  of  the  rishi  hjnaself  was  uppermost  in  his  mind,  and 
that  he  was  not  conscious  that  the  praises  which  he  was  uttering  to 

20  See,  however,  the  various  reading  suggested  by  Bothlingk  and  Rqth  i.v.  mah  + 
sam  and  ah  +  sam.  "  . 

16 


242          THE  EISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

the  gods  proceeded  from  any  other  source  than  his  own  unaided  fa#ul- 
ties.  Of  this  description  are  the  following  texts,  "which  represent  a 
manner  of  thinking  and  speaking  very"  prevalent  in  the  hymns : 

i.  60,  5.  Tarn  tvd  vayam  patim  Ague  raylridm  prasamsam)  matibhir 
Gotamdsah  \ 

"  We,  the  Gotamas,  praise  with  hymns  thee,  Agni,  t>,.e  lord  of  riches." 

i.  77,  5.  Eva  Agnir  Gotamebhir  ritdvd  viprebhir'aito&htajdtavedah  \ 

"Thus  has  the  holy  Agni  Jatavedas  been  celebrated  byrtlie  sage 
Gotamas."  *  f 

i.  78,  5.  Avochama  Rahuganah  Agnaye  madhumad  vachah  \  dyumnair 
abhi  pra  nonumah  \ 

"  "We,  the  Eahuganas,  have  uttered  to  Agni"  honied  speech ;  we  in- 
cessantly laud  him  with  eulogies." 

i.  91,  11.  Soma  glrbhis  tva  vayam  vardhaydmo  vacho-vidah  \  sumrillko 
nah  aviso,  \ 

"  Soma,  we  who  are  skilled  in  speech  magnify  thee  with  praises  ;  do 
thou  enter  into  us,  full  of  kindness." 

i.  102,  1.  Imam  te  dhiyam  prabhare  maho  mahlm  .... 

"  I  present  to  thee  joyfully  this  great  hymn  ..... 

i.  183,  6.  Atdrishma  tamasas  pdram  asya  prati  vdm  stomo  Asvindv 
adhdyi  \ 

""We  have  crossed  over  this  darkness;  a  hymn,  o  Asvins,  has  been 
addressed  to  you." 

iii.  53,  2.  Pitur  na  putrah  sicJiam  d  rabhe  te  Indra  svddishthayd  gird 
sachlvah  \ 

"  Powerful  Indra,  I  lay  hold  of  thy  skirt  (as  a  son  does  that  of  his 
father),  with  a  very  sweet  hymn." 

iv.  3,  16.  Etd  visvd  vidushe  tubhyam  vedho  nlthdni  Agne  ninyd  va- 
chdmsi  |  ntiachand  kavaye  kdvydni  asamsisham  matibhir  viprah  ukthaih  \ 

"Intelligent  Agni,oto  thee,  who  knowest,  [have  I  uttered]  all  these 
songs  and  mysterious  words ;  to  thee,  who  art  a  bard,  have  I,  a  sage, 

'  t  ^ 

uttered  these  hymns,  these  poems,  witk  meditutions  and  piuises." 
iv.  32,  12.  Avlvridhpnta  GotatKdh  Indra  tve  stoma-vdhasah  \ 
"  The  Gotamas,  Indra,  bringing  hymns  to  thee,  have  magnified  thee." 
v.  11,  5.  Tubhya  idam  Agne  madhumattamam  vachas  tubhyam  manlshd 

^yam  astu  sam  hride  \  Tvdm  girah  sindhum  iva  avamr  mahlr  d  prinanti 

savasd  vardhayanti  chaf\  '• 


„  TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  243 

'•Agni,  may  this  sweetest  of  prayers,  may  this  mental  production 
be  pleasant  to  thy1  heart.  As  great  rivers  fill  the  ocean,  so  do  the  words 
of  praise  fill  thee,  and  augment  thee  with  strength." 

v.  22,  4.'  Ague  chikiddhi  asya  nah  idam  vacJiah  scthasya  \  Tarn  tvd 
susipra  dampate  stomair  vardkanti  Atrayo  girlihih  sumlJianti  Atrayah  \ 

"  Yigorous  AgH: ,  observe  these  oiuwvords;  thee,  with  the  beautiful 

*  *fc 

nose,  the  lord  of  the  house,  the  Atris  magnify  with  praises,  the  Atris 

decorate  with  hymnS."  " 
• 

v.  45,»4.  Suktebhir  vo  vacholhir  deva-jusMair*In$ra  nu  Agni  avase  hu- 
vadJiyai  \ 

"  Let  me  invoke  you  for  help,  o  Indra  and  Agni,  with  well-spoken 
words,  such  as  are  acceptable  to  the  gods. 

vi.  38,  3.  Tarn  vo  dhiyd  paramayd  purdjdm  ajaram  Indram  abhi 
anushi  arkaih  ityddi  \ 

"  I  adore  thee,  the  ancien^;,  imperishable  Indra  with  an  excellent 
hymn  and  with  praises." 

vii.  67,  5.  PrdcJilm  u  devd  Asvina  dhiyam  me  amridhram  sataye 
kritam  vasuyum  \ 

"0  divine  Asvins,  bring  to  fulfilment  my  unwearied  prayer  which 
supplicates  wealth." 

vii.  85,  1.  Punlshe  vdm  arakshasam  manlshdm  sornam  Indrdya  Varu- 
nayajuhvat  \  ghrita-pratlkdm  Ushasatn  net  devlrn  ityudi  \ 

"  Offering  soma  to  Indra  and  Varuna,  I  prepare  for  you  twain  the 
sincere  hymn,  like  the  goddess  Ushas,  with  glittering  face."21 

viii.  5,  18.  Asmukam  adya  vdm  ay  am  stomo  vdftishtho  antamah  \  yuvti- 
bhyaih  bhutu  Asvina  \ 

"  May  this  hymn  of  ours  approach  near  fo  you,  to-day,  o  Asvins,  and 
be  effectual  in.  bearing  you  hither." 

viii.  8,  8.  Kim  anye  parydsate  asmat  stomelhir  Asvina  \  putrah  Kan- 
vasya  vdm  risJiir  glrbhir  Vatso  avlvridhat  \ 

"  Asvins,  do  others  tfyan^  we  sit  round  you  with  songs  ?  Vatsa,  the 
son  of  Kanva",  has  magnified  you'by  his  hymns."  * 

viii.  27,  8.  A  pra  ydta  Maruto  'fashno  Asvina  PusJian  mdklnayd 
dhiyd  |  11.  Ida  hi  vah  upastutjm  idd  vdmasya  lhaktaye  upa  vo  visva- 

vedaso  namasyur  dsrikshi  \ 

» 

21  Compare  vi.  8,  1.  Vaisv anarciya  inatir  navyasi  sucJiih  somah  iva  private  chariu 
Agnaye  \  "  A  new  and  bright  hymn  is  purified,  like  beautiful  soma,  for  Agni  Vais- 

•vunnvu   '* 


244        THE  RISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  EEGARD 

"  8.  Come,  o  Maruts,  Vishnu,  Asvins,  Pushan,  at  my  hymn.  ll.JFor 
now,  possessors  of  all  riches,  now,  in  order  to  obtaki  wealth,  have  I, 
full  of  reverence,  sent  forth  to  you  a 'hymn." 

viii.  44,  2.  Ague  stomam  jushasva  me  vardhasva  anena  wanmand  \ 
prati  sulctdni  harya  nali  \  22.  Uta  tvd  tfhltayo  mama  giro  varddhantu 
visvahd  \  Agne  sakhyasya  lodhi  nph  \  26.  Yuvdnamjf<.spatim  fcaviih  vis- 
vddam  puru-vepasam  \  Agnim  sumlhdmi  manmalhify  (\ 

"  2.  Agni,  receive  my  hymnV  grow  by' this  prochict  of  my,  thought : 
rejoice  in  our  beautiful  'words.  22.  And  may  my  thoughts  apd  words 
always  augment  thee ;  Agni,  think  of  our  friendship.  26.  With  my 
mental  productions  I  adorn  Agni,  the  young,  the  lord  of  the  people, 
the  sage,  the  all-devouring,  the  very  restless."' 

x.  42,  1.  Astd  iva  suprataram  lay  am  asyan  bhushann  iva  prabhara  sto- 
mamasmai\  vdchdviprdstaratavdcham  aryo  niramayajaritahsomelndram  \ 

"Like  an  archer  discharging  his  far-shooting  arrow,  with  zeal  pre- 
sent the  hymn  to  Indra.  Sages,  by  your  song,  overcome  the  song  of 
the  enemy;  worshipper,  arrest  Indra  at  the  soma." 

x.  63,  17.  Eva  Plateh  sunur  avivridhad  vo  visve  Aditydh  Adite  mani- 
thl  |  isdndso  naro  amartyena  astdvijano  divyo  Gayena  \ 

"  Thus,  all  ye  Adityas,  Aditi,  and  ye  ruling  powers,  has  the  wise 
son  of  Plati  magnified  you.  The  celestial  race  has  been  lauded  by  the 
immortal  Gay  a." 

x.  Ill,  1.  Manlshinah pralharadhvam  mariishtim  yathd  yathd  mata- 
yah  santi  nrinam  \  Indram  satyair  d  Iraydma  kritebhih  sa  hi  vlro  gir- 
vanasyur  viddnah  \ 

"Sages,  present  the  prayer,  according  as  are  the  various  thoughts 
of  men.  Let  us  by  our  sincere  rites  stimulate  Indra,  for  he  is  a  hero, 
he  is  wise  and  loves  our  songs." 

In  the  following  verse,  from  a  hymn  in  praise  of  liberality,  it  is  said, 
though  no  doubt  only  figuratively,  that  the  true  rishi  is  the  prince  who 
is  Bountiful  to  the  priesthood. 

x.  107,  6.  Tarn  era  rishim  tarn  u  br&hmdnam  dJiur  yajrfanyam  sdma- 
gdm  ulethasasam  \  sa  subrasya  tanfo  veda  tisro  yah  prathamo  dakshinayd 
rarddha  \  , 

"He  it  is  whom  they  call  a  rishi,  a  priest,  a  pious  sacrificer,  a 
chaunter  of  prayers,  a  reciter  of  hymns ;  he  it  is  who  knows  the  three* 
bodies  of  the  brilliant\A.gni), — the  man  who  is  most  prominent  in  be- 
stowing gifts." 


TO   THE   ORIGIN   OF  THE   TEDIC  HYMNS.  245 


SECT.  IV. — Passages  of  the  Rig-veda  in  which  a  supernatural  character 
is  ascribed  to  the  rishis  or  the  hymns. 
i 

In,  the  preseru  section  I  propose  $o  collect  the"  most  distinct  indi- 
cations which  I  haVe  noticed  in  the  Vedic  hymns  of  any  supernatural 
attributes  attaching}  in' the  opinion  of  the  authors,  either  to  the  rishis 
themselves,  or  to  their  compositions.  We  shall, see  in  the  course  of 
this  enquiry  (1)  that  a  certain  superhuman  character  was  ascribed  by 
the  later  rishis,  who  composed  the  hymns,  to  some  of  their  prede- 
cessors ;  (2)  that  expressions  are  occasionally  employed  by  the  rishis 
which  appear  to  ascribe  their  compositions  to  a  divine  influence  gene- 
rally ;  while  there  is  a  still  more  numerous  set  of  texts  in  which  the 
hymns  are  attributed  in  various  forms  of  phraseology  to  the  agency  of 
one  or  more  particular  and  specified  deities ;  and  (3)  that  there  is  a 
considerable  number  of  passages  in  which  a  mysterious  or  magical 
power  is  ascribed  to  the  hymns  or  metres. 

I  proceed  to  furnish  specimens  of  these  several  classes  of  quotations. 

I.  I  adduce  some  passages  which  ascribe  a  superhuman  character  or 
supernatural  faculties  to  the  earlier  rishis.22  These  are  the  following  : 

R.V.  i.  179,  2.  Ye  chid  hi  purve  ritasdpah  dsan  sdkam  devebhir  ava- 
dann  ritdni  \  te  chid  avdsur  ityddi  \ 

"  The  pious  sages  who  lived  of  old,  and  who  conversed  about  sacred 
truths  with  the  gods,  led  a  conjugal  life,"  etc. 

vii.  76,  4.  Te  id  devdndm  sadhamddah  dsann  ritdvdnah  Icavayah  pur- 
vydsah  \  gulham  jyotih  pitaro  anvavindan  satyamantrdh  ajanayann 
ushdsam  \  ^ 

"  They  were  the  associates  of  the  gods,  those  ancient  pious  sages. 
The  fathers  found  out  the  hidden  light ;  with  true  hymns  they  gene- 
rated the  dawn."  ,  • 

x.  14,  lo\  Yamdya  madhumdttamafh  rujne  havyum  juhotana  \  idam 
namah  rishibhyah  purvajebhyah  purvebhyah  patkikridbhyah  \ 

"Offer  to  king  Yama  a  meet  sweet  oblation.  (Let)  this  reverence 
(be  paid)  to  the  rishis  born  of  old,  who  were  the  earliest  guides." 

» 

23  Compare  A.V.  s.  7,  14,  quoted  a^ore  in  p.  3. 


246        THE  RISHIS,  AND»THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

The  sixty- second  hymn  of  the  tenth  Mandala  contains  the  following 
passage  regarding  the  Angirases  (see  above,  p.  223) :, 

1.  The  Angirases. —  x.  62,  1,  3.  Ye  yajnena  dakshinayd  samaktdh  In- 
drasya  sakhyam  amritatvam  dnasa  \  tebhyo  bhadram  Angiras^  vah  astu 
prati  grilhnlta  mdnavam  sumedhasah  \   3.  Ye  ritena  suryam  arohayan 
divi  aprathayan  prithivlm  mdtaram  m  ityddi  \  ^, 

"  1.  Blessings  be  on  you,  Angirases,  who,  sanctioed  by  sacrifice  and 
liberality,  attained  the  friendship  of  India  and,  immortality.  -Do  ye, 
o  sages,  graciously  receives  the  man  (who  addresses  you).  3.  Ye  who  by 
sacrifice  caused  the  sun  to  ascend  the  sky ;  and  spread  out  our  mother 
earth,"  etc. 

This  is  succeeded  by  the  following  verses :     . 

x.  62,  4.  Ayarn  Ndbhd  vadati  valguvo  grihe  deva-putrdh  rishayas  tat 
srinotana  .  .  .  |  5.  Virupdsah  id  rishayas  te  id  gambhira-vepa&ah  \  Angi- 
rasah  sunavas  te  Agneh  parijajnire  \ 

"This  Nabhan  addresses  you,  brilliant  beings,  within  the  house. 
Hear  this,  ye  rishis,  sons  of  the  gods.  ...  5.  The  Yirupas  are  rishis, 
profound  in  emotion ;  they  are  the  sons  of  Angiras ;  they  have  been 
born  from  Agni." 

(The  fifth  verse  is  quoted  in  the  Kirukta,  xi.  17.  See  Roth's  illus- 
trations of  the  passage.)23 

2.  Vasishtha. — A  supernatural  character  is  attributed  to  Vasishtha 
also  in  the  following  passage  (which  has  been  already  quoted   and 
illustrated  in  Vol.  I.  pp.  318  ff.). 

vii.  33,  7  ff.  Trayah  Icrinvanti  Ihuvanasya  retas  tisrah  prajdh  drydh 

jyotir-agrdh  \  trayo  gharmdsah  ushasam  sachante  sarvdn  it  tan  ami  vidur 

Vasishthdh  \  8.  Suryasyeva  vajcshatho  jyotir  eshdm  samudrasyeva  mahimd 

galhlrah  \  vdtasyeva  prajavo  na  anyena  stomo  Vasishthdh  anu  etave  vah  \ 

23  The  next  verse  (which,  with  the  sequel,  is  quoted  in  my  article  "  On  the  relations 
of  the  priests  to  the  other  classes  of  Indian  society  in  the  Vedic  age,"  Journ.  Roy.  As. 
Soc.  for  1866,  p.  276)  is  as  follows :  6.  Te  Agneh  pan  jgjnire  Virupaso  divas  pari  \ 
Navugvo  nu  Dasagvo  Angirastamah  sacha  deveshu  mamkatd  \  "The  Virupas  who  were 
produced  from  Agni,  froift  Dyaus, — the  Navagva,  the  Das'agva,  who  is  a  most  eminent 
Angiras,  lavishes  gifts  along  jvith  the  go£s."  Here  the  Virupas  would  seem  rather 
to  be  princes  than  rishis :  and  the  same  is  the  case  in  the  following  passage  also : 
iii.  53,  6.  Ime  bhojah  Angiraso  Virupah  divas  putraso  asurasya  vlrah  \  Visvcimitraya 
dadato  maghani  sahasrasave pro,  tiranta  ayuh  \  "These  liberal  Virupas  of  the  race  of 
Angiras,  heroic  sons  of  the  divine  Dyaus  (the  sky),  bestowing  gifts  on  Vis'vamitra  at 
the  ceremony  with  a  thousand  libations,  have  prolonged  their  lives."  (See  Vol.  I. 
p.  341  f.) 


TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  247 

l 

9.  Te  id  ninyam  hridayasya  praketaih  sahasra-valsam  ablii  sancharanti  \ 
yamlna  tatam  paridhim  vayantah  apsarasah  upa  sedur  Vasishthdh  \  10. 
Vidyuto  jyotih parisanjihdnam  Mitrd-Varund  yad  apaiyatdm  tvd  \  tat  te 

janma  uta^ekam  Vasishtha  Agastyo  yat  tvd  visah  djabhdra  \  11.  Utdsi 
Maitrdvaruno  Va&ishtha  Urvaiydh  brahman  manaso  'dhi  jdtah  \  drapsam 
sJcannam  brahmcfid  daivyena  visve  devdh  pushlcare  ivy  adadanta  \  12.  Sa 

praketah  ubhayasys,  pravidvdn,  sahast'a-ddnah  uta  vd  saddnah  \  yamena 
tatam  yaridhim  v^ishyan  apearasah  parijajne  Vasishthah  \  13.  Satre  ha 

jdtdv  isKitd  namolhih  jumbhe  retail  sisichituh  samdnam  \  tato  ha  Mdnah 
udiydya  madhydt  tatojdtam  rishim  dhur  Vasisht/iam  \ 

"7.  Three  [gods]  create  the  fecundating  principle  in  (all)  existences ; 

'[there  exist]  three  excellent  productions  of  which  light  is  the  first: 
three  fires  attend  upon  the  dawn  :  all  these  the  Vasishthas  know.  8. 
The  splendour  of  these  [sages]  is  like  the  full  glory  of  the  sun ;  their 
grandeur  is  profound  as  that  of  the  ocean ;  like  the  swiftness  of  the 
wind,  your  hymns,  o  Vasi-shthas,  cannot  be  followed  by  any  other 
bard.  9.  Through  the  intuitions  of  their  hearts  they  seek  out  the 
mystery  with  a  thousand  branches.  "Weaving  the  envelopment  ex- 
tended by  Yama  [Agni  ?  see  E.V.  i.  66,  4]  the  Vasishthas  sat  near  the 
Apsaras.  10.  When  Mitra  and  Yaruna  saw  thee  quitting  the  gleam  of 
the  lightning,  that  was  thy  birth,  Yasishtha,  and  [thou  hadst]  one 
[other],  when  Agastya  brought  thee  to  the  people.  11.  And,  Yasish- 
tha, thou  art  the  son  of  Mitra  and  Yaruna,  born,  o  priest,  from  the 
mind  of  TTrvasI ;  all  the  gods  placed  thee — the  drop  fallen  through 
divine  contemplation — in  the  vessel.  12.  He  the  wise,  knowing  both 
[worlds  ?],  with  a  thousand  gifts,  or  with  gifts,  Yasishtha,  being  about 
to  weave  the  envelopment  extended  by  Yama,  was  produced  from  the 
Apsaras.  13.  Born  at  the  sacrifice,  and  impelled  by  adorations,  they 
[Mitra  and  Yaruna]  let  the  same  equal  procreative  energy  fall  into  the 
jar;  from  the  midst  of  this  Mana  (Agastya)  issued  forth;  from  this 
men  say  the  rishi  Yagishtha  was  produced." 

Two  of  .these  verbfes,  are  quoted  in  the  Nirukta,  verse  8,  in  xi.-  20, 
and  verse  11,  in  v.  14.  See  also^  Prof.  Roth's  Illustrations  of  that 
work,  p.  64,  where  he  states  his  opinion  that  the  foregoing  verses 
which  describe  the  miraculous  birth  of  Yasishtha  in  the  style  of  the 
epic  mythology,  are  a  later  addition  to  an  older  hymn.  See  the  note 
in  p.  321  of  the  First  Volume  of  this  work. 


248         THE  EISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

( 

The  two  following  passages  also  have  reference  to  knowledge  super- 
naturally  communicated,  orffavours  divinely  conferred  on  Yasishtha. 
See  Vol.  I.  p.  325  S. 

vii.  87,  4.  Uvdcha  me  Varuno  medhirdya  tvih  sapta  ndrya  aghnyd 
bibhartti  \  vidvdn  padasya  guhyd  na  vochad  yugdya  viprah  upardya 
Sikshan  \  fl  <; 

"Yaruna  said  to  me,  the  intelligent,  'the  cow,. has  thrice  seven 
names.'  The  wise  [god],  though  he  know*  them,  Ijab  not  declared  the 
mysteries  of  the  word,  which  he  desires  to  reveal  Co  a  later  generation." 

vii.  88,  4.  Vasishthdm  ha  Paruno'ndvi  d  adhdd  rishim  chakdra  svapdh 
mahobhih  \  stotdram  viprah  sudinatve  ahndm  ydd  nu  dydvas  tatanan  ydd 
ushasah  \  ,  l 

"  Varuna  took  Yasishtha  into  the  boat ;  by  his'  mighty  acts,  working 
skilfully  he  (Yaruna)  has  made  him  a  rishi ;  the  wise  (god)  has  made 
him  to  utter  praises  in  an  auspicious  time,  that  his  days  and  dawns 
may  be  prolonged."  (See  Yol.  I.  p.  325  f.',  and  compare  E.Y.  x.  101, 
2,  and  x.  116,  9,  in  pp.  234  and  240,  above.) 

3.  Visvdmitra. — In  one  or  more  of  the  texts  which  I  shall  next 
produce,  a  superhuman  character  is  ascribed  to  Yisvamitra,  if  not  to 
the  Kusikas. 

iii.  29,  15.  Amitrdyudho  marutdm  iva  praydh  prathamajah  brahmano 
visvam  id  viduh  \  dyumnavad  brahma  JZusikdsah  erire  ekah  eko  dame 
Agniih  samldhire  \ 

"  Combating  their  foes,  like  hosts  of  Maruts,  (the  sages)  the  first- 
born of  prayer  are  masters  of  all  knowlege  ;  the  Kusikas  have  uttered 
an  enthusiastic  prayer;  each  of  them  has  kindled  Agni  in  his  house." 
(See  Yol.  I.  p.  347.) 

iii.  43,  5.  Kuvid  md  gopdm  karase  janasya  kuvid  rdjdnam  Maghavann 
rijlshan  \  kuvid  ma  rishim  papwdmsam  sutasya  kuvid  me  vasvah  amri- 
tasya  sikshah  \ 

11  Dost  thou  not  make  me  a  shepherd  of  the  people  ?  dost  thou  not 
make  me  a  king,  o  impetuous  Maghavan?  dost  'thou  not  rpake  me  a 
rishi,  a  drinker  of  the  soma  ?  wilt  ^,hou  not  bestow  upon  me  imperish- 
able wealth  ?  "  (See  Yol'.  I.  p.  344.) 

iii.  53,  9.  Mdhan  rishir  devajdh  devajutah  astalhndt  sindhum  arnavam 
nricltakshdh  \  Visvdmitro  yad  avahat  Suddsam  a/priydyata  Kusikebhir 
Indrah  [ 


TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIO  HYMNS.  249 

great  rishi  (Visvamitra),  leader  of  men,  god-born,  god-im- 
pelled, stemmed  the  watery  current.  "When  Visvamitra  conducted 
Sudas,  Indra  was  propitiated  through  the  Kusikas."  (See  Vol.  I. 
pp.  342.  Indra  himself»is  called  a  Kausika  in  E.V.  i.  10,  11.  See 
Vol.  I.  p.  347.) 

According  to*Jx.  87,  3,  of  which.  Usanas  is  the  traditional  rishi, 
certain  mysterious  iknowledge  «is  said  to  have  been  possessed  by  that 
personage:  •  .  • 

Rishir  viprah  pura-^td  jandndm  ribhur  dhirah  Usand  kdvyena  \  sa 
chid  viveda  nihitam  yad  dsdm  aplchydm  guhyam  ndma  gondm  \  • 

"  A  wise  rishi,  a  leader  of  men,  skilful,  and  prudent,  is  Usanas, 
t"hrough  his  insight  as*a  seer;  he  has  known  the  hidden  mysterious 
name  applied  to  these  cows." 

Again  in  ix.  97,  7,  it  is  said :  Pro,  kdvyam  Usaneva  Iruvdno  devo 
devdndm  janimd  vivalcti  \ 

11  Uttering,  like  Usanas,  the  wisdom  of  a  sage,  the  god  (Soma)  de- 
clares the  births  of  the  gods." 

In  a  hymn  of  the  tenth  Mandala,  the  rishis  are  spoken  of  as 
"seeing"  the  objects  of  their  contemplation  in  a  way  which  seems  to 
imply  a  supernatural  insight  (see  above,  pp.  116,  118,  125  ff.) ;  in  this 
hymn,  x.  72,  1,  2,  it  is  said : 

Devdndm  nu  vayam  jdnd  pravochdma  vipanyayd  \  uktheshu  sasyamd- 
neshu  yah  pasydd  uttare  yuge  \  Brahmanaspatir  eta.  sam  Jcarmdrah  iva 
adhamat  \  devdndm  purvye  yuge  asatah  sad  ajdyata  \ 

"Let  us,  from  the  love  of  praise,  celebrate  in  recited  hymns  the 
births  of  the  gods, — any  one  of  us  who  in  this  later  age  may  see 
them.  Brahmanaspati  has  kindled  these  births,  as  a  blacksmith  [blows 
a  flame]  :  in  the  earliest  age  of  the  gods,  the  existent  sprang  from  the 
non-existent."  24  (See  Vol.  I.  p.  46.) 

Another  not  less  decided  instance  of  this  usa  of  the  verb  to  see,  in 
the  sense  of  supernatural  insight,  may  be  found  in  the  verse  of  the 
Valakhilya  already  quo4e*d  in  ,Vol.  II.  p.  220,  which  will  be  ciled 
below.  See  also  x.  130,  6,  which  will  be  quoted  further  on. 

The  next  two  passages  speak  of  the  radiance  of  the  rishis. 

viii.  3,  3  (=S.V.  i.  250,  and  Vaj.  S.  33,  81).  Imdh  u  tvd  puruvaso 

24  TJie  first  of  these  verses  is  translated  by  Prof.  Beiifey  in  Ms  Glossary  to  the 
Sama-veda,  p.  154.  »  , 


250         THE  RISHIS,  AND  THEIR   OPINIONS   IN  REGARD 

giro  vardhantu  yah  mama  \  pdvalca-varndh  swhayo  vipaschitah  abhi  sto- 
mair  anushata  \ 

"  Lord  of  abundant  wealth,  may  these  prayers  of  mine  magnify  thee ! 
Pure  sages  of  radiant  appearance  have  celebrated  thee  with  hymns.'' 

viii.  6,  10.  Aham  id  hi  pituh  pari  medhdm  ritasya  jagrabha  \  aham 
suryah  iva  ajani  \ 

"I  have  acquired  knowledge 'of  the  Ceremonial 'irom  [my]  father; 
I  have  become  like  the  sun."  (Is  Indra  tl*e  father  .here  referred  to  r) 

The  following  texts,  which  occur  in  the  last' 'book  of  the  Rig-veda, 
spea,k  of  tapas  (" fervour "  or  "austerity")  being  practised  by  the 
rishis  much  in  the  same  way  as  the  later  epic  literature  does.  This  use 
of  the  word  is  not  known  in  the  earlier  books  of  ihe  R.Y.  (See  Boeht- 
lingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon,  under  the  word  tapas:} 

x.  109,  4.  Devdh  elasydm  avadanta  purve  sapta  rishayas  tapase  ye 
nisheduh  \ 

l<  The  ancient  gods  spoke  of  her,  the  seven  rishis  who  sat  down  for 
austere-fervour."  (See  my  article  "  On  the  priests  of  the  Yedic  age  " 
in  the  Journ.  Roy.  As.  Soc.  for  1866,  p.  270.) 

x.  154,  2.  Tapasd  ye  anddhrisyds  tapasd  ye  svar  yayuh  \  tapo  ye  cha- 
krire  mahas  tdms  chid  eva  api  gachchatdt  \  5.  Sahasra-nlthdfy  kavayo  ye 
gopdyanti  suryam  rishlms  tapasvato  Yama  tapojdn  api  gachhatdt  \ 

"  Let  him  (the  deceased)  go  to  those  who  through  austere-fervour 
are  invincible,  who  by  austere-fervour  have  gone  to  heaven,  who  have 
performed  great  austerity.  5.  Let  him  go,  Yama,  to  the  sages  of  a 
thousand  songs  who  guard  the  sun  (see  Wilson,  Vish.  Pur.  vol.  ii. 
pp.  284  ff.),  to  the  devout  rishis,  born  from  fervour."  (See  my  article 
"  On  Yama  "  in  the  Journ.  Roy.  As.  Soc.) 

x.  190,  1.  Ritam  cha  satyam  cha  abhzddhdt  tapaso  adhyajdyata  \  tato 
rdtrl  ajdyata  tatah  samudrah  arnavah  \ 

"Right  and  truth  r sprang  from  kindled  austerity;  thence  sprang 
night,  thence  the  watery  ocean." 

In  x.  16  7-,  1,  it  is  even  said  that  Indrra  attaiped  heaven  b,y  austerity : 

Tvaiti  tapah  paritapya  ajayah  svah  \ 

"By  performing  austerity  thou  didst  conquer  heaven." 

In  some  places  the  gods  are  said  to  possess  in  the  most  eminent 
degree  the  qualities  of  rishis,  or  Icavis.  This  may  possibly  imply,  e  con- 
verso,  that  the  rishis  were  conscious  of  a  certain  affinity  with  the  divine 


TO  THE  OEIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  251 

I 

nature,  and  conceived  themselves  to  participate  in  some  degree  in  the 
superior  wisdom  and  knowledge  of  the  defies. 

E.V.  i.  31,  1.  TV  am  Agne  prat'namo  Angirdh  rishir  devo  devdndm  alha- 
vah  sivah  ^a/chd  ityadi  «|  2.  Tvam  Agne  prathamo  Angirastamah  kavir 
devdndm  paribhushasi  vratam  \ 

"1.  Thou,  Ag«i,  the  earliest  rishi  Angiras,  a  god,  hast  been  the  au- 
spicious friend  of  the  gods.  .  ,• .  .  2.^Thou,  Agni,  the  earliest  and  most 
Angiras-like  sage* a,dministeiHest  the  ceremonial  of  the  gods." 

i.  66,^2.  .  .  .  Rishtf  na  stubhvd  vikshu  prasastah  ityadi  \ 

"  Like  a  rishi,  who  praises  [the  gods],  he  (Agni)  is  famous  among 
the  people,"  etc. 

iii.  21,  3.  .  .  .  Rishfy  sreshthah  samidhyase  yajnasya  pra  avitd  bhava  \ 

"Thou,  Agni,  the  most  eminent  rishi,  art  kindled;  be  the  protector 
of  the  sacrifice." 

v.  29,  1.  .  .  .  Archantitvd  marutah  puta-dak^fis  tvam  eshdm  rishir 
Indra  asi  dhlrah  \ 

"  The  Maruts,  endowed  with  pure  dispositions,  worship  thee;  thou, 
Indra,  art  their  wise  rishi."  (Sayana,  however,  here  renders  rishi  by 
drashtu,  ' '  beholder. ' ' ) 

vi.  14,  2.  Agnir  id  hi  prachetdh  Agnir  vedhastamah  rishi h  \ 

"Agni  is  wise;  Agni  is  a  most  sage  rishi." 

viii.  6,  41.  Rishir  hi  purvaja  asi  ekah  Isanah  oj'asd  \  Indra  cJwsh- 
kuyase  vasu  \ 

"  Thou  art  an  anciently -born  risht,  who  alone  rulest  by  thy  might ; 
Indra  thou  lavishest  riches." 

viii.  16,  7.  Indro  brahmd  Ind)*ah  rishir  Indrah  puru  puru-hutah  \ 
mahdn  mahllhih  sachllhih  \  , 

"  Indra  is  a  priest,  Indra  is  a  rishi,  Indra  is  much  invoked ;  he  is 
great  through  his  great  powers." 

ix.  96,  18  (=  S.V.  ii.  526).  Rishi-mand  yah  ri$hi-krit  svarshdh  sahas- 
ranlthah  padamh  kavindm  \ 

"Soma,  ^ishi-minded^ishi-mflTcer,  bestower  of  good,  master  of  a  tHou- 
sand  songs,  the  leader  of  sages,"  etc> 

ix.  107,  7.  .  .  .  Rishir  vipro  vichakshanah  \  tvam  kavir  abhavo  deva- 
vltamah  ityadi  \ 

"A  rishi,  a  sage,  intelligent,  thou  (Soma)  wast  a  poet,  most  agreeable 
to  the  gods,"  etc.  • 


252        THE  EISHIS,  AND   THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

x.  27,  22.  .  .  .  Indrdya  sunvad  rishaye  cha  sikshat  \ 

"...  Let  [men]  present  libatiSns  to  Indra,  and  offerings  to  the  rishi" 

x.  112.  9.  Ni  shu  sida  ganapate  ganeshu  tvdm  dhur  vipratamam  Tcavl- 
ntim  |  na  rite  tvat  kriyate  kinchana  are  mahdm  tirkam  Maghavajis  chitram 
archa  \ 

"  Sit,  lord  of  multitudes,  amon«  our  multitudes ;  thc)y  call  thee  the 
greatest  of  sages  [or  poets] ;  noth'ing  is  "done  witho-nt,  or  apart  from, 
thee  j  sing,  Maghavan,  a  great  and  beautiful  hymn*"" 

x.  115,  5.  Agnih  kanvetamah  kanva-salchd  ity&di  \ 

"  Agni  is  the  greatest  of  the  Kanvas,  the  friend  of  Kanva,"  etc. 

II.  The  Yedic  rishis,  as  we  have  seen,  expected  to  receive  from  their 
gods  every  variety  of  temporal  blessings,  strength,  long  life,  offspring, 
riches,  cattle,  rain,  food,  and  victory,  and  they  also  looked  for  forgiveness 
of  their  offences,  and  sometimes  for  exaltation  to  paradise,  to  the  same 
benefactors.  Hence  $  would  be  nothing  more  than  we  might  have  an- 
ticipated, if  we  should  further  find  them  asking  their  different  deities  to 
enlighten  their  minds,  to  direct  their  ceremonies,  to  stimulate  their  devo- 
tion, to  augment  their  powers  of  poetical  expression,  and  to  inspire  them 
with  religious  fervour  for  the  composition  of  their  hymns.  I  think  the 
following  passages  will  justify  this  expectation  by  showing  that  the  rishis 
(though,  as  we  have  seen,  they  frequently  speak  of  the  hymns  as  their 
own  work)  did  also  sometimes  entertain  the  idea  that  their  prayers, 
praises,  and  ceremonies  generally,  were  supernaturally  suggested  and 
directed.  One  of  the  modes  (if  not  the  most  important)  in  which  this 
idea  is  expressed  is,  as  we  shall  discover,  the  personification  of  speech 
under  different  appellations.  The  following  are  the  passages  to  which 
I  refer  :  they  are —  r 

First,  such  as  refer  to  the  gods  generally : 

E.Y.  i.  37,  4.  Pravah  sardhaya  ghrishvaye  tvesha-dyumndya  sushmine  \ 
brahma  devattam  gdyata  \ 

"  To  your  vigorous,  overpowering,  energetic,  host  [of  Maruts]  sing 
the  god-given  prayer." 

S.Y.  i.  299.  Tvashtd  no  daivyafa  vacliah  Parjanyo  Brahmanaspatih  \ 
putrair  Ihratrilhir  Aditir  nu  putu  no  dushtaram  trdmanam  vachah  \ 

"  May  Tvashtri,  Parjanya,  and  Brahmanaspati  [prosper]  our  divine 
utterance :  may  Aditi  with  her  [?]  sons  and  brothers  prosper  our  in- 
vincible and  protective  utterance." 


TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  253 

Jn  the  next  passage,  the  hymn  or  prayer  is  spoken  of  as  inconceivable. 

K.Y.  i.  152,  5t  Ackittam  brahma  jujushur  yuvdnah  ityddi  \ 

"The  youths  received  with  joy  the  incomprehensible  prayer,"  etc. 

In  R.Y»  x.  20,  10,  Yimada,  a  rishi,  is  connected  with  the  immortals : 

Agne  Vimado  manlshdm  iyrjonapdd  amritebhih  sajoshdh  girah  dvakshat 
sumatlr  iydnah*ityddi  \  •  • 

"  0  Agni,  son*  of  strength,  Yimada,  united  with  the  immortals, 
hastening,  has  brought  to  thee  a  product  of  thought,  and  beautiful 
hymns," 

In  the  two  following  texts  the  gods  are  said  to  have  generated  the 
hymn  or  prayer : 

x.  61,  7.  ...  Svdcfttgo  ajanayan  brahma  devdh  Vdstoshpatim  vratapdm 
niratakshan  \ 

11  The  thoughtful  gods  generated  prayer :  they  fashioned  Yastoshpati 
the  protector  of  sacred  rites." 

x.  88,  8.  Sukta-vdlcam  prathamam  dd  id  Agnim  dd  -id  havir  ajana- 
yanta  devdh  \  sa  esMm  yajno  abhavat  tanupdh  tarn  dyaur  veda  tarn  pri- 
thivl  tarn  dpah  \ 

"The  gods  first  generated  the  hymn,  then  Agni,  then  the  oblation. 
He  was  their  sacrifice,  the  protector  of  their  life.  Him  the  Sky,  the 
Earth,  and  the  "Waters  know." 

In  the  latter  of  the  two  following  verses,  Vach  (speech)  is  said  to  be 
divine,  and  to  have  been  generated,  by  the  gods.  Though  speech  is  here 
spoken  of  generally,  and  nothing  is  said  of  the  hymns,  still  these  may 
have  already  come  to  be  connected  with  her  in  the  minds  of  the  Yedic 
bards,  as  they  were  afterwards  regarded  as  her  most  solemn  and  im- 
portant expression.  •  . 

E.Y.  viii.  89,  10.  Yad  vdg  vadantl  avichetandni  rdsJitri  devdndm  nisha- 
sdda  mandrd  \  chatasrah  urj'am  duduhe  paydmsi  leva  svid  asydh  paramam 
jaguma  \  11.  Devim  vacham  ajanayanta  devds»tdm  visvarupdh  pasavo 

vadanti  \  sd  no  mandrd  isham  urjam  duhdnd  dhenur  vdg  asmdn  upa 
*    •  • 

sushtutd  a?etu  \  •  »  , 

"  When  Yach,  speaking  unintell?gible  things,  queen  of  the  gods,  sat 
down,  melodious,  she  milked^  forth  sustenance  and  waters  towards  the 
four  quarters :  whither  has  her  highest  element  departed  ?  The  gods 
generated  the  divine  Yach ;  animals  of  all  kinds  utter  her ;  may  this 
melodious  cow  Yach,  who  yields  us  nourishin^nt  and  sustenance, — ap- 
proach us,  when  we  celebrate  her  praises. 


254         THE  RISHIS,   AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

The  last  verse  (as  well  as  R.V.  viii.  90,  16,  which  will  be  quoted 
below),  derives  some  illustration  from  the  following  passage  of  the 
Brihad  Aranyaka  TJpanishad,  p.  982  (p.  251  English  transl.),  in  which 
also  Yach  is  designated  as  a  cow :  *.• 

Vacham  dhenum  updslta  \  tasyds  chalvdrah  standh  svdhd-kdro  vashat- 
kdro  hanta-Icdrah  svtidhd-kdrah  \  lasydh  dvau  stanau  devdh  upajlvanti 
svdhd-kdram  cha  vashat-kdram  cha  hanta-ktiram  manushydh  svadhd-kdram 
pitarah  \  tasydh  prdnah  rishabho  >mano  vatsah  \  ' 

"Let  a  man  worship  the  cow  Yach.  She  has  four  udders,  the  for- 
mulae svdhd,  vashat,  hanta,  and  svadhd.  The  gods  live  upon  her  two 
udders,  svdhd  and  vashat ;  men  upon  hanta ;  and  the  fathers  upon 
svadhd.  Breath  is  her  bull ;  the  mind,  her  calf/-' 

The  two  verses,  E.Y.  viii.  89,  10,  and  11,  occur  in  the  Nirukta,  xi. 
28,  29.  Roth  (in  his  Illustrations  of  that  work),  p.  152,  says  the  un- 
intelligible utterance  of  Yach  in  verse  10,  means  thunder.  "Whether 
this  be  the  case,  or  not,  the  word  appears  to  have  a  more  general  signi- 
fication in  the  next  verse,  and  to  refer  to  speech  in  general,  personified 
as  a  divine  being.  The  speech  which  all  the  animals  utter  cannot  of 
course  be  thunder. 

In  some  of  the  preceding  verses  of  this  hymn  there  is  a  curious  refer- 
ence made  to  some  sceptical  doubts  regarding  the  existence  of  Indra  ; 
which  I  quote  here,  though  unconnected  with  the  present  subject. 

R.Y.  viii.  89,  3,  4.  Pra  su  stomam  bharata  vdjayantam  Indruya  sat- 
yam  yadi  satyam  asti  \  na  Indro  asti  iti  nemah  u  tvah  aha  leak  im  da- 
darsa  ham  ablii  stavdma  \  Ayam  asmi  jaritah  pasya  md  ilia  visvd  jdtdni 
abhi  asmi  mahnd  \  ritasya  md  pradiso  varddhayanti  ddardiro  Ihuvand 
dardarlmi  \  , 

"  Present  to  Tndra  a  hymn  soliciting  food,  a  true  [hymn]  if  he  truly 
exists.  '  Indra  does  not  exist,'  says  some  one :  '  who  has  seen  him  ? 
whom  shall  we  praise  ? '  '  I  am  here,  worshipper '  [answers  Indra]  ; 
'  behold  me,  I  surpass  all  creatures  in  greatness :  the  directors  of  the 
sacrifice  augment  me;  crushing,  I  destroy  the  worlds.'  " 

Second  :  the  next  set  of  passagei  which  I  shall  bring  forward  either 
refer  to  Sarasvati,  Yach,  etc.  (various  names  of  the  goddess  of  speech, 
or  different  personifications  of  speech,  or  of  prater),  or  at  least  speak 
of  prayer  as  divine. 

H.Y.  i.  3,  11,  12.  Chqdc.yitri  sunritdndm  chetantl  sumatindm  \  yaj- 
nam  dadhe  Sarasvati  |  .  .  .  .  dhiyo  visvd  virdjati  \ 


TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  255 

> 

^  SarasvatI,  who  furthers  our  hymns,  and  who  is  cognizant  of  our 
prayers,  has  sustained  our  sacrifice She  enlightens  all  intellects." 

i.  22,  10.  A  gndh  Agne  iha  avase  Hbtrtim  yavishtha  JBhdratlm  \  Varu- 
trlm  Dhiskandm  vaha  \  ' 

"Bring  here,  youthful  -^gni,  to  our  help,  the  wives  [of  the  gods], 
Hotra,  BharatI,*Varutri,  and  Dhishaga."  • 

( Par&tri,  "  the,  eligible,"  may  be  merely  an  epithet  of  Lhishana 
which,*  according  *t»  Sayana,  at  least/ is  =  vdg-devl,  "the  goddess  of 
speech." )  » 

i.  31,  11.  Hum  akrinvan  manusficfsya  Sdsanlm  *tyddi  \ 

"  The  gods  made  Ila  to  be  the  instructress  of  men."  (See  Professor 
•Wilson's  note  on  this  passage,  p.  82  of  his  translation  of  the  E.Y.  vol.  i.) 

ii.  3,  8.  SarasvatI  sddhayanti  dhiyam  nah  lid  devi  Bhdratl  visvaturt- 
tih  |  Tisro  devlh  svadhayd  larhir  edam  achhidram  pdntu  iaranam  ni- 
shadt/a  \ 

"  May  SarasvatI,  perfecting  our  hymn,  may  the  divine  Ila,  and  the 
all-pervading  BharatI  j  may  these  three  goddesses,  seated  on  the  place 
of  sacrifice,  preserve  by  their  power  the  sacrificial  grass  uninjured." 
(See  Prof.  Miiller's  translation  of  part  of  the  verse  in  the  Journ.  Roy. 
As.  Soc.  for  1867,  vol.  iii.  p.  224.) 

iii.  18,  3 Ydvad  Ise  Irahmand  vandamdnah  imam  dhiyam  &ata- 

seydya  devlm  \ 

"  Worshipping  thee  with  a  prayer  according  to  the  best  of  my  power, 
in  this  divine  hymn,  to  obtain  unbounded  wealth." 

iv.  43,  1.  Ka  u  sravat  Jcatamo  yajniydndm  vanddru  devah  katamo 
jushdte  |  Jcasya  imam  devlm  amritesJiu  preshthdm  hridi  sreshydma  sush- 
tutim  suhavydm  \ 

"  Who  will  hear  us  ?  which  of  all  the  objects  of  adoration  ?  which 
of  all  the  gods  will  be  gratified  by  our  praises  ?  In  the  heart  of  whom 
among  the  immortals  can  we  lodge  this  our  divine  and  dearest  hymn 
of  praise  and  invocation  ?  " 

vii.  34,  1.  Pro,  suJcrS,  etu  devi  mariishd  asmat  sutashto  ratho  na  vdfi  \ 

"May  prayer,  brilliant  and  divide,  proceed  from  us,  like  a  well- 
fabricated  chariot  drawn  by  steeds." 

vii.  34,  9.  Abhi  vo  devlm  dfiii/am25  dadidhvam  pro,  vo  devatrti  vdcham 
krinudhvam  \ 

25  Compare  the  same  phrase  dhiyam  devlm  in  A.V.  jii.  15,  3,  and  flalvya  vacha  in 
A.V.  viii.  1,  3. 


256          THE  RISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

"  Receive  towards  you  the  divine  hymn ;  proclaim  the  song  for  your- 
selves among  the  gods."  i 

viii.  27,  13.  Devam  devam  huvema  vcijasdtaye  grinanto  devyd  dhiyd  \ 

"  Let  us  invoke  each  of  the  gods  to  bestow  riches,  praising,  them  with 
a  divine  hymn." 

viii.  90,  16.  Vacho-vidam  vdchqm  udlrayantlm  visvdlhir  dhllhir  upa- 
tishthamdndm  \  devlm  devebhyah  pari  eymhlm  gum  d  ma  avrikta  marttyo 
dalhrachetdh  \  « 

"  Let  not  any  mortal  of  little  intelligence  do  Violence  to  the  c.ow,  the 
divine  Yach,  who  is  skilled  in  praise,  who  utters  her  voice  aloud,  who 
arrives  with  all  the  hymns,  and  who  has  come  from  the  gods." 

ix.  33,  5.  Abhi  brahmlr  anushata  yahvlr  ritasya  mdtaro  marmrijyante 
divah  sisum  \ 

"  The  great  and  sacred  mothers  of  the  sacrifice  have  uttered  praise : 
they  decorate  the  child  of  the  sky." 

x.  71,  1.  Brihaspate  prathamam  vdcho  agraih  yat  prairata  ndmadhe- 
yam  dadhdndh  \  yad  eshdm  sreshtham  yad  aripram  dslt  prend  tad  eshdm 
nihitam  guha  dvih  \  2.  Saktum  iva  titaund  punanto  yatra  dhlrdh  manasd 
vdcham  akrata  \  atra  salchdyah  sakhydni  jdnate  bhadrd  eshdm  lakshmlr 
nthitd  adhi  vdchi  \  3.  Yajnena  vdchah  padavlyam  dyan  tdm  anvavindann 
ri&hishu  pravishtdm  \  tdm  dbhritya  vyadadhuh  purutrd  tdm  sapta  relhdh 
abhi  sannavante  \  4.  Uta  tvah  pasyan  na  dadarsa  vdcliam  uta  tvahsrinvan 
na  srinoti  endm  \  uto  tvasmai  tanvam  visasre  jdyeva  patye  usatl  suvdsdh  \ 
5.  Uta  tvam  sakJiye  sthirapltam  dhur  nainam  hinvanty  api  vdjineshu  \ 
adhenvd  charati  mdyayd  esha  vdcham  susruvdn  aphaldm  apushpdm  \  6. 
Yas  titydja  sachi-vidam  sakhdyam  na  tasya  vdchi  api  Ihdgo  asti  \  yad  im 
srinoti  alakaih  srinoti  na  hi  praveda  sukritasya  panthdm  \ 

"  1.  When,  o  Brihaspati,  men  sent  forth  the  first  and  earliest  utter- 
ance of  Yach  (speech),  giving  a  name  (to  things),  then  all  which  was 
treasured  within  then?,  the  most  excellent  and  spotless,  was  disclosed 
through  love.  2.  "Wherever  the  wise, — cleansing,  as  it  were,  meal  with 
a  sieve, — have  uttered  speech  with  intelligence)  there  friends  recognize 
[theirl  friendly  acts ;  an  auspicious  fortune  is  impressed  upon  their 
speech.  3.  Through  sacrifice  they  followed  the  track  of  Yach,  and 
found  her  entered  into  the  rishis  : 26  taking,  theyklivided  her  into  many 
portions :  her  the  seven  poets  celebrate.  4.  One  man,  seeing,  sees  not 

26  See  the  use  made  by  S'ankara  of  this  text,  above,  p.  105. 


TO  THE  OfilGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  257 

another,  hearing,  hears  her  not;  to  another  she  discloses  her 

I  * 

form,  as  an  elegantly  attired  and»  loving  wife  displays  her  person  to  her 
husband.  5.  They  say  that  one  man  has  a  sure  defence  in  [her]  friend- 
ship ;  men'cannot  overwhelm  him  even  in  the  conflicts  (of  discussion) ; 
but  that  man  consorts  with*  an  unprofitable  delusjon  who  has  [only] 
heard,  speech  [Vach]  which  is  £to  hinf]  without  fruit  or  flower.  6.  He 
who  has  abandoned/his  discerning  friend,  has  no  portion  in  Vach ;  what- 
ever he  hears  he  hears  iji  vain ;  he  knows  not  the  path  of  virtue." 

The  second,  fourth,  and  fifth  versee  of  this  obsSure  hymn  are  quoted 
in  the  Nirukta,  iv.  10 ;  i.  19,  20 ;  and  are  explained  in  Professor  Roth's 
Illustrations.  Verses  %  and  4  are  also  quoted  and  interpreted  in  the 
Mahabhashya ;  see  pp..  30  and  31  of  Dr.  Ballantyne's  edition.  The 
verse  which  is  of  most  importance  for  my  present  purpose,  is,  however, 
the  third,  which  speaks  of  Vach  having  "  entered  into  the  rishis."  See 
the  First  Volume  of  this  work,  pp.  254  f.  The  idea  of  Vach  being 
divided  into  many  portions  will  be  found  again  below  in  R.V.  x.  125,  3. 

x.  110,  8  (=Vaj.  S.  29,  33).  A  no  yajnam  Bhdratl  tuyam  etu  Ila 
manushvad  ika  chetayantl  \  tisro  devlr  barhir  a  idam  syonam  Sarasvatl 
svapasah  sadantu  \ 

"Let  Bharat!  come  quickly  here  to  our  sacrifice,  with  Ila,  who  in- 
structs us  like  Manush  [or  like  a  man],  and  with  Sarasvatl :  let  these 
three  goddesses,  skilful  in  rites,  sit  down  upon  this  beautiful  sacrificial 
grass." 

x.  125,  3.  Aham  rdshtrl  sangamanl  vasundm  chilcitushl  prathamd 
yajniydndm  \  tarn  ma  devd  vyadadhuh  purutrd  Ihuristhdtrdm  bhuri 
dvesayantlm  \  4.  Maya  so  annam  atti  yo  vipasyati  yah  prdniti  ya  1m 
srinoti  uktam  \  amantavo  mum  te  upa  hshiyanti  srudhi  sruta  sraddhivam 
te  vaddmi  \  5.  Aham  eva  svayam  idam  vaddmi  jushtam  devebhir  uta  md- 
nushebhih  \  yam  kdmaye  tarn  tarn  ugram  knnomi  tarn  brahmunam  tarn 
rishim  tarn  sumedhdm  \ 

"  3.  I  am  the  queen,  ihe^  centre  of  riches,  intelligent,  the  first  of  ttie 

"*  *  •  4 

objects  of  adoration :  the  gods  have  separated  me  into  many  portions, 
have  assigned  me  many  abodes,  and  made  me  widely  pervading.  4.  He 
who  has  insight,  he  who  lives, •he  who  hears  [my]  sayings,  eats  food 
through  me.  These  mSn  dwell  in  my  vicinity,  devoid  of  understand- 
ing. Listen,  thou  who  art  learned,  I  declare  to  thee  what  is?  worthy  of 
belief.  5.  It  is  even  I  myself  who  make  known  this  which  is  agreeable 

17 


258         THE  RISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

both  to  gods  and  men.     Him  whom  I  love  I  make  terrible,  [I  make] 
him  a  priest,  [I  make]  him  a  rishi,  [I  make]  him  intelligent."  *" 

x.  176,  2.  Pro,  devam  devyd  dhiyd  lharata  Jdtavedasam  havyd  no 
vakshad  dnushak  \ 

"By  divine  praygr  bring  hither  Jataveaas :  may  he  present  our  ob- 

if-  ^ 

lations  in  order." 

x.  177,  1.  Patangam  aktam  asurasya  may  ay  a  hridd  pasyanti  manasd 
vipaschitah  \  samudre  t  antah  Jcavayo  vichalcsfyflte  marlchlndm  padam 
ichhanti  vedhasah  \  2'.  Patango  vdcham  manasd  bibhartti  turn  Grandharvo 
avadad  garbhe  antah  \  tdm  dyotamdndm  svaryam  mamshdm  ritasya  pade 
kavayo  nipdnti  \ 

"  1.  Sages  behold  with  the  heart  and  mind  the  Bird  illuminated  by  the 
wisdom  of  the  Asura  :  the  wise  perceive  him  in  the  (aerial)  ocean  :  the 
intelligent  seek  after  the  abode  of  his  rays.  2.  The  Bird  cherishes 
speech  with  his  mind  :  the  Gandharva  huth  uttered  her  in  the  womb  : 
the  bards  preserve  in  the  place  of  sacred  rites  this  shining  and  celestial 
intellect."  (See  also  x.  189,  3,  vdk  patangdya  dhlyate.) 

Third  :  I  shall  now  adduce  the  passages  in  which  other  Yedic  deities, 
whether  singly  or  in  concert,  are  spoken  of  as  concerned  in  the  pro- 
duction of  the  hymns : 

Aditi. — In  K.V.  viii.  12,  14,  Aditi  is  mentioned  as  fulfilling  this 
function : 

Yad  uta  svardje  Aditih  stomam  Indrdya  jljanat  puru-prasastam  utaye 
ityddi  \ 

"  When  Aditi  generated  for  the  self-resplendent  Indra  a  hymn  abound- 
ing in  praises,  to  supplicate  succour,"  etc. 

Agni. — R.Y.  i.  18,  6,  7. — Sadasaspatim  adlhutam  priyam  Indrasya 
kdmyam  \  sanim  medhdm  aydsisham  \  yasmdd  rite  na  siddhyati  yajno 
vipaschitas  chana  \  sa  dhlndm  yogam  invati  \ 

"  6.  I  have  resorted,  for  wisdom,  to  Sadasaspati  (Agni),  the  wonder- 
ful, the  dear,  the  beloved  of  Indra,  the  beneficent ;  (7)  without  whom 

27  This  passage,  which  is  commonty  understood  of  Vach,  occurs  also  in  the  Atharva- 
veda,  iv.  30 ,  2  ff.,  but  with  some  various  readings,  as  avesayantah  for  avesayanfim, 
and  iraddheyam  for  sraddhivam,  etc.  The  'hymn  is  translated  by  Mr.  Colebrooke, 
Ess.  i.  32,  or  p.  16  of  Williams  and  Norgate's  edition.  Professor  Whitney,  as  I  learn 
from  a  private  communication  with  which  he  has  favoured  me,  is  of  opinion  that 
there  is  notning  in  the  language  of  the  hymn  which  is  specially  appropriate  to  Vach, 
so  as  to  justify  the  ascription  of  it  to  her  as  the  supposed  utterer. 


TO  THE  ORIGIN  OP  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  259 

* 

the.sacrifice  of  the  wise  does  not  succeed :  he  promotes  the  course  of 
our  hymns."        *  • 

iv.  5,  3.  Sdma  dvi-larhdh  maJii  tigma-lhrishtih  sahasra-retdh  vrishabhas 
tuvishmdn  4  padam  na  got  apagulham  vivid/van  Agnir  mahyam  pro,  id  u 
voehad  manlshdm  \  6.  Idam  me  Agne  Jciyate  pdvaka  aminate  gurutn  bhd- 
ram  na  manma  \  *Brihad  dadhdtha  dhriehatd  galhlrafh  yahvam  prishtham 
prayasd  saptadhdtut\ 

"  Agni  occupying  two  positions,  tlie  fierce-flaming,  the  infinitely 
prolific,  ,the  vigorous,  tAe  powerful,  who  knows  tjie  great  hymn,  mys- 
terious as  the  track  of  a  [missing]  cow,  has  declared  to  jne  the  know- 
ledge [of  it].  6.  To  me  who  am  feeble,  though  innoxious,  thou,  o  Agni, 
the  luminous,  hast  givea,  as  a  heavy  load,  this  great,  profound,  and  ex- 
tensive Prishtha  hymn,  of  seven  elements,  with  efficacious  oblations." 

iv.  6,  1.  Tvam  hi  visvam  abhi  a&i  manma  pra  vedhasai  chit  tirasi 
manlshdm  \ 

"  Thou  presidest  over  all  thoughts  [or  prayers]  ;  thou  augmentest  the 
intelligence  of  the  sage." 

iv.  11,  3.  Tvad  Agne  Tcdvyd  tvad  manlshds  tvad  ulcthd  jdyante 
rddhydni  \ 

"From  thee,  Agni,  are  generated  poetic  thoughts;   from  thee  the 
products  of  the  mind ;  from  thee  effective  hymns." 
x.  21,  5.  Agnir  jdto  Atharvand  vidad  visvdni  Jcqvyd  \ 
"Agni,  generated  by  Atharvan,  is  acquainted  with  all  wisdom." 

x.  91,  8 Medhdltdram  vidathasya  prasddhanam  Agnim  ityddi  \ 

"Agni,  the  giver  of  understanding,  the  accomplisher  of  sacrifice." 
x.  4,  5.  Yad  vo  vayam  pramindmo  vratani  vidushdm  devdh  avidusta- 
rdsah  \  Agnis  tad  visvam  dprindti  mdvan*yebhir  devdn  ritubhih  kalpa- 
ydti  |   Yat  pdlcatru  manasd  ddna-dakshdh  na  yajnasya  manvate  martyd- 
sah  |  Agnis  tad  hotd  Icratuvid  vijdnan  yajishtho  devdn  rituso  yajdti  \ 

"  When,  o  [ye]  gods,  we,  the  most  unwise  among  the  wise,  transgress 
the  ordinances  of  your  worship,  the  wise  Agni  completes  them  all^at 
the  stated  seasons  which-Ee  assigns  to  the  gods.  ^When  men,  devoted 
to  sacrifice,  do  not,  from  their  ignorance,  fightly  comprehend  the  mode 
of  worship,  Agni,  the  skilful  sacrificer,  and  most  eminent  of  priests, 
knowing  the  ceremonial,  worships  the  gqds  at  the  proper  seasons." 

(As  rites  and  hymns  were  closely  united  in  the  practice  of^  the  early 
Indians,  the  latter  finding  their  application  at*tke  former;  if  Agni  was 


260         THE  BISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

supposed  to  be  the  director  of  the  one,  viz.,  the  oblations,  he  might  eerily 
come  to  be  also  regarded  as  aiding  in  the  production  of  the  other — the 
hymns.  Verse  4  occurs  also  in  the  A.V.  xix.  59,  1,  2,  where,  however, 
dprindtu  is  read  instead  of  dprindti,  and  in  place  of  the  words  yebhir 
devdn,  etc.,  at  the  close  of  the  verse,  we  have,  somas  cha  yo  brdhmandn 
d  vivesa  I  "and  Soma,  who  entered  into  the  priests.") 

Brahmanaspati. — R.V.  i.  40,  5,  6.  Pro,  nunam  Bmhmanaspatir  man- 
tram  vadati  ulcthyam  \  yasminK  Indro  Varuno  Mitrah  Aryamd  devdh 
okdrnsi  chakrire  \  Tarn,  ici  vochema  vidatheshu  sambhuvam  mantram  devdh 
anehasam  ityddi  \ 

"  Brahmanaspati  (abiding  in  the  worshipper's  mouth,  according  to 
the  scholiast)  utters  the  hymn  accompanied  with  praise,  in  which  the 
gods,  Indra,  Varuna,  Mitra,  and  Aryaman,  have  made  their  abode.  Let 
us  utter,  gods,  at  sacrifices,  that  spotless  hymn,  conferring  felicity." 
(Roth  in  his  Lexicon  considers  okas  to  mean  "good  pleasure,"  "  satis- 
faction." See  also  his  Essay  on  Brahma  and  the  Brahmans,  Journal  of 
the  Germ.  Or.  Soc.  i.  74.) 

Brihaspati. — R.V.  ii.  23,  2.  Usrdh  iva  suryo  jyotisM  maho  visvesham 
ij  janitd  brahmandm  asi  \ 

"  As  the  sun  by  his  lustre  instantly  generates  rays,  so  art  thou  (Bri- 
haspati) the  generator  of  all  prayers." 

x.  36,  5.  A  Indro  barhih  sidatu  pinvatdm  lid  Brihaspatih  sdmabhir 
rikvo  archatu  \ 

11  Let  Indra  sit  upon  the  sacred  grass ;  let  Ila  abound  in  her  gifts ; 
let  the  bard  Brihaspati  offer  praise  with  hymns." 

Gandharva. — According  to  Professor  Roth  (see  under  the  word  in  his 
Lexicon)  the  Gandharva  is 'represented  in  the  Veda  as  a  deity  who 
knows  and  reveals  the  secrets  of  heaven,  and  divine  truths  in  general ; 
in  proof  of  which  he  quotes  the  following  texts  : 

R.V.  x.  139,  5.  Visvdvasur  abhi  tad  no  grindtu  divyo  Gandharvo 
rajaso  vimdnah  \  Yad  vd  ghd  satyam  uta  yad  na  vidma  dhiyo  hinvdno 
dliiyah  id,  nah  avydh 

"  May  the  celestial  Gandharva  Visvavasu,  who  is  the  measurer  of 
the  atmosphere,  declare  to  us  that  which  is  true,  or  which  we  know 
not.  May  he  stimulate  our  hymns,  and  may  he  prosper  our  hymns. 

A.V.  ii.  1,  2.  Pra  tad  voched  amritasya  vidvdn  Gandharvo  dhdma^para- 
mam  guild  yat  \ 


t  TO  THE  ORIGIN   OF  THE  VEDIC   HYMNS.  261 

"May  the  Gandharva,  who  knows  the  (secret  of)  immortality,  de- 
clare to  us  that  supreme  and  mysterious  abotle." 

Indra. — R.V.  iii.  54,  17.  Mahat  tad  vah  kavayas  chdru  ndma,  yad  ha 
devdh  lhavaiha  visve  Indre  \  sakhd  Ribhulhih  puruhuta  priyebhir  imam 
dhiyam  sdtaye  takshata  nali  \  • 

"  Great,  o  sage  deities,  is  that  cherished  distinction  of  yours,  that 
ye  are  all  associated  with  Indra.  Do  thou,  much  invoked  (Indra),  our 
friend,  with  the  beloved  Eibhus,  fabricate  (or  dispose)  this  hymn  for 
our  welfare."  (This  may  merely  mean  that  Indra,  was  asked  to  give  a 
favourable  issue  to  the  prayer  of  the  worshipper,  not  to  compose  his 
hymn  for  him.  See  Roth's. Lexicon,  under  the  word  tafoh,  3.) 

vi.  62,  3.  Tvam  ]cavim"chodayah  arkasdtdv  ityddi  \ 

"  Thou  (Indra)  didst  stimulate  the  poet  in  the  composition  of  his 
hymns,"  etc.  (Sayana  renders  arkasdtau,  "for  the  sake  of  finding 
food.") 

vi.  18,  15.  Erishva  Jcritno  akritam  yat  te  asti  uktham  navlyo  jana- 
yasva  yajnaih  \ 

"  Energetic  (Indra),  do  what  thou  hast  never  yet  done ;  generate  a 
new  hymn  with  the  sacrifices." 

vi.  34,  1.  Sam  cha  tve  jagmur  girah  Indra  purvir  vi  cha  tvad  yanti 
vtbhvo  manlshdh  \ 

"  Many  hymns  are  congregated  in  thee,  o  Indra^  and  numerous  pro- 
ducts of  the  mind  issue  from  thee."  (This  half-verse  has  been  already 
quoted  in  p.  227.) 

vi.  47,  10.  Indra  mrila  mahyam  jwdtum  ichcha  cliodaya  dhiyam  ayaso 
na  dhardm  \  Yat  Mncha  aham  tvdyur  idam  vaddmi  taj  jushasva  kridhi  md 
devavantam  \  • 

"  0  Indra,  gladden  me,  decree  life  for  me,  sharpen  my  intellect  like 
the  edge  of  an  iron  instrument.  "Whatever  I,  longing  for  thee,  now 
utter,  do  thou  accept ;  give  me  divine  protection.'*  (Compare  with  the 
word  chodaya  the  use  of ,,the  word  prachodaydt  in  the  Gayatrl,  R. V.  iy. 
62,  10,  whic3  will  be  given  below.)  » 

vii.  97,  3.  Tarn  u  namasd  Jiavirlhih  susevajn  Brdhmanaspatim  grinlshe  \ 
Indram  sloko  maJii  daivyah  sishqjctu  yo  Irahmano  devakritasya  rdjd  \  5. 
Tarn  d  no  arkam  amritdya  jushtam  ime  dhti&ur  amritdsah  purdjdh  ityddi  \ 

"  3*1  invoke  with  reverence  and  with  offerings  the  benefi^nt  Brah- 
manaspati.  Let  a  great  and  divine  song  celebrate  Indra,  who  is  king 


262         THE  RISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

of  the  prayer  made  by  the  gods.  5.  May  these  ancient  immortals  make 
this  our  hymn  acceptable  to  "the  immortal,"  etc.  ° 

viii.  13,  7.  Pratna-vaj  janaya  girah  srinudhi  jaritur  havam  \ 

"  As  of  old,  generate  hymns ;  hear  the  invocation  of  thy  worshipper." 

viii.  52,  4.  Sa  pratnathd  kavi-vridhah  Indro  vdkasya  vakshanih  \ 

"Indra  was  of  old  the  promoter  of  the  poet,  and  the  augmenter  of 
the  song."  <- 

viii.  78,  6.  Yaj  jdyathd  apurtiya  Maghavan  V'/ritfra-hatydya,  \  'tat  pri- 
thivlm  aprathayas  tad  ,isiabhndh.  uta  dydm  \  7.  Tat  te  yajno  ajuyata  tad 
arJcali  uta  haslcritih  \  tad  vi£vam  abhibhur  asi  yaj  jdtam  yach  chajantvam  \ 

"  When,  o  unparalleled  Maghavan,  thou  wast  born  to  slay  Vrittra, 
thou  didst  then  spread  out  the  earth  (the  brdad  one)  and  sustain  the 
sky :  then  thy  sacrifice  was  produced,  then  the  hymn,  and  the  haskriti : 
(since)  then  thou  surpassest  everything  that  has  been,  or  shall  be,  born." 

Here  therefore  the  hymn  is  asserted  to  be  as  old  as  Indra ;  though 
nothing  more  need  be  meant  than  that  hymns  then  began  to  be  pro- 
duced. The  hymn  in  which  this  verse  occurs  is  not  necessarily  meant. 

x.  112,  9.  Ni  shu  sida  ganapate  ganeshu  tvdm  dhur  vipratamam  kavl- 
ndm  |  na  rite  tvat  kriyate  kinchana  are  mahdm  arkam  Maghavan  chitram 
archa  \ 

"  Lord  of  assemblies,  sit  amid  our  multitudes ;  they  call  thee  the 
wisest  of  poets.  Nothing  is  done  without,  or  apart  from  thee  ;  sing,  o 
Maghavan,  a  great  and  beautiful  hymn."  (Already  quoted  in  p.  252.) 

Indra  and  Vishnu. — R.V.  vi.  69,  2.  Yd  visvdsdni  janitdrd  matlndm 
Indrd-  Vishnu  kalasd  soma-dhdnd  \  Pra  vdm  girah  sasyamdndh  avantu 
pra  stomdso  glyamdndsah  arTcaih  \ 

"Indra  and  Vishnu,  ye  wlio  are  the  generators  of  all  hymns,  who 
are  the  vessels  into  which  soma  is  poured,  may  the  praises  which  are 
now  recited  gratify  you,  and  the  songs  which  are  chaunted  with  en- 
comiums." 

Indra  and  Varuna. — The  following  passage  i§  not,  properly  speaking, 
a  portion  of  the  Rig^-veda,  as  it  is  part  'of  one  off  the  Yalakhilyas  or  apo- 
cryphal additions  (described,- in  Vol.  II.  p.  210),  which  are  found  in- 
serted between  the  48th  and  49th  hymn?  of  the  8th  Mandala.  From  its 
style,  however,  it  appears  to  be  nearly  as  old  as  some  parts  of  the  E.V. 

xi.  6.  fydrdvarund  yad  rishilhyo  manlshdiii  vdcho  tnatiiti  &utam 
adattam  agfe  \  ydni  stKdndny  asrijanta  dhlrdh  yajnaiiii  tanvdnds  tapasd 
'bhyapasyam  \ 


TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  263 

» 

"  Indra  and  Yaruna,  I  have  seen  through  austere-fervour  that  which 

ye  formerly  gave  to  the  rishis,  wisdom,  understanding  of  speech,  sacred 

•  • 

lore,  and  all  the  places  which  the»  sages  created,  when  performing  sacri- 
fice." (See  Yol.  II.  p.  320.) 

The  Maruts. — R.Y.  viii.  78,  3.  Pra  vah  Indrdya  Irihate  Maruto  Irah- 

ma  archata  I 

0  • 

"Sing,  Maruts,  your  hymn  to  the  great  Indra."  (Compare  verse  1, 
of  the  ^ame  hymm,  and  the  words  brahmakritd  Mdrutena  ganena  in 
iii.  32,  2.*)  ", 

Pushan. — R.Y.  x.  26,  4.  Mamslmahi  tvd  vayam'asmdkam  deva  Pushan 
matlndm  cha  sddhanam  viprdndm  cha  ddhavayi  \  ' 

•  '"  We  have  called  thee  to  mind,  divine  Pushan,  the  accomplisher  of 
our  hymns,  and  the  stimulator  of  sages."  (The  first  clause  of  this,  how- 
ever, may  merely  mean  that  the  god  gives  effect  to  the  wishes  expressed 
in  the  hymns.  Compare  vi.  56,  4 :  Yad  adya  tvd  purushtuta  Iravdma 
dasra  mantumah  \  tat  su  no  manma  sddhaya  \  "  Accomplish  for  us  the 
(objects  of  the)  hymn,  which  we  utter  to  thee  to-day,  o  powerful  and 
wise  god." 

Savitri.—R.'V.  iii.  62  (=  S.Y.  ii.  812,  and  Yaj.  S.  iii.  35).  Tat  Sa- 
vitur  varenyam  lhargo  devasya  dhlmahi  \  dhiyo  yo  nah  prachodaydt  \ 

"  We  have  received  that  excellent  glory  of  the  divine  Savitri ;  may 
he  stimulate  our  understandings  [or  hymns,  or  rites]." 

(This  is  the  celebrated  Gayatrl,  the  most  sacred  of  all  the  texts  in 
the  Yeda.  See  Colebrooke's  Misc.  Ess.  i.  pp.  29,  30,  127,  and  175;  or 
pp.  14,  15,  78,  and  109  of  Williams  and  Norgate's  ed.  Benfey  (S.Y. 
p.  277)  translates  the  Gayatri  thus:  "May  we  receive  the  glorious 
brightness  of  this,  the  generator,  of  the  god  who  shall  prosper  our 
works."  On  the  root  from  which  the  word  dhlmahi  is  derived,  and  its 
sense,  see  also  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon,  s.vv.  dhd  and  dhl ;  and 
compare  my  article  "  On  the  Interpretation  of  the  Yeda,"  Journ.  Roy. 
As.  Soc.  p.  372. 

The  Linga  Purana  (Tart  II.  sec.  48,  5  ff.,  Bombay  lithographed  ed.) 
gives  the  following  "varieties"  of,  the  Gayatri?  adapted  to  modern 
S'aiva  worship :  •  • 

Gdyatri-lheddh  \  TatpuruShdya  vidmahe  vdg-visuddhdya  dhlmahi  \ 
Tan  nah  S'ivah  prachodaydt  \  Gandmbiktiyai  vidmahe  karma-siddhyai 
cha  dhlmahi  \  Tan  no  Gaurl  prachodaydt  \  Tatpurushdya  vidmahe  Mahd- 


264         THE  RISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

devaya  dhlmahi  \  Tan  no  Rudrah  prachodayut  \  Tatpurushdya  vidmahe 
Vaktratunduya  dhlmahi  \  Tan  no  Dantih  prachodaydt  \  Mahdsendya  vid- 
mahe vdg-visuddhdya  dhlmahi  \  Tan  nah  Skandah  prachodaydt  \  Tllcshna- 
sringdya  vidmahe  Vedapdddya  dhlmahi  \  Tan  •  no  Vrishah  p^achodaydd 
ityddi  \ 

B 

"  1 .  We  contemplate  That  Purusha,  we  meditate  K  hiir.  who  is  pure  in 
speech ;  may  That  S'iva  stimulate'  us.  2,  We  contemplate  Ganambika, 
and  we  meditate  Karmasiddhi  [the  accomplishment  of  works);  may 
That  Gauri  stimulate  us.  3.  We  contemplatecThat  Purusha,  and  we 
meditate  Hahadeva ;  may  that  Rudia  stimulate  us.  4.  We  contemplate 
That  Purusha,  and  we  meditate  Vaktratunda  (Ganesa) ;  may  That 
Danti  (the  elephant)  stimulate  us.  5.  ^Ve  ,con template  Mahasena 
(Kartikeya,  and  we  meditate  him  who  is  pure  in  speech;  may  That 
Skanda  stimulate  us.  6.  We  contemplate  Tikshnasringa  (the  sharp- 
homed),  and  we  meditate  the  Yeda-footed;  may  Yrisha  (the  bull) 
stimulate  us." 

Soma. — K.Y.  vi.  47,  3.  Ayam  me  pltah  udiyartti  vacham  ayam  manl- 
shum  usatlm  ajlgah  \ 

"This  [soma],  when  drunk,  stimulates  my  speech  [or  hymn] ;  this 
called  forth  the  ardent  thought." 

It  may  be  said  that  this  and  the  other  following  texts  relating  to 
Soma,  should  not  be  quoted  as  proofs  that  any  idea  of  divine  inspiration 
was  entertained  by  th'e  ancient  Indian  bards,  as  they  can  mean  nothing 
more  than  that  the  rishis  were  sensible  of  a  stimulating  effect  on  their 
thoughts  and  powers  of  expression,  produced  by  the  exhilarating 
draughts  of  the  juice  of  that  plant  in  which  they  indulged.  But  the 
rishis  had  come  to  regard  Soma  as  a  god,  and  apparently  to  be  passion- 
ately devoted  to  his  worship.  See  the  Second  Volume  of  this  work, 
pp.  470  ff.,  and  especially  pp.  474,  475 ;  and  my  account  of  this  deity 
in  the  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  for  1865,  pp.  135  ff. 

Compare  what  is  said  of  the  god  Dionysus  (or  Bacchus)  in  the  Bacchas 
of  Euripides,  294  :  r 

MONTIS  S'<5  Saifuav  Zi^e'  rb  yap  ^aKxeiifft/Jiov 
Kal  rb  faviiaSec-  fj-avriK^v  troXX^v  e^f «. 
"Orav  yap  6  0eJ>s  'us  rb  croi/i'  f\6ri  iro\vs, 
Afyeiv  rb  jueAAov  rovs  fji(fj.r\v6ras  iroiei. 

28  I  retain  here  this  sense  of  the  word,  which  is  probably  the  most  commonly 
received. 


TO  THE  OEIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC   HYMNS.  265 

» 

"  And  this  deity  is  a  prophet.  For  Bacchic  excitement  and  raving  have  in  them 
muc'h*  prophetic  power.  For  when  this  god  enters  in  force  into  the  body,  he  causes 
those  who  rave  to  foretell  the  future."  , 

*R.Y.  viii.  48,  3.  Apdnia  somam  amritdh  abhuma  aganma  jyotir  avi- 
ddma  devdn  \  kim  nunam  asmdn  krinavad  arutih  kim  u  dhurttir  amrita 


"We  have  drunk  the  soma,  we  lave  become  immortal,  we  have 

•  * 

entered  into  light,  we  have  known  the  gods ;  what  can  an  enemy  now 
do  to  us>  what  can  the^  malice  of  any  mortal  effect,  o  immortal  god?"29 

(This*  passage  is  quoted  in  the  commentary  t>f  Graudapada  on  the 
Sankhya  Karika,  verse  2,  and  is  translated  (incorrectly  Ss  regards  the 
last  clause),  by  Prof.  Wils»n,  in  p.  13  of  his  English  version.) 

A  curious  parallel  io  this  last  Vedic  text  is  to  be  found  in  the 
satirical  drama  of  Euripides,  the  Cyclops,  578  ff. ;  though  there,  of 
course,  the  object  is  merely  to  depict  the  drunken  elevation  of  the 
monster  Polyphemus :  » 

'O  8'  ovpavds  fj.01  ffvfj.fj.ffj.iyfji.evos  Sojcet 
Tp  7^  <pepeff6ai,  rov  At6s  re  rbv  Bpovov 
A.e6ffff(o  rb  irat>  re  Saifj.6vtai>  ayvbv  (re'/Sas. 

"  The  sky,  commingled  with  the  earth,  appears 
To  whirl  around;  I  see  the  throne  of  Jove, 
And  all  the  awful  glory  of  the  gods." 

R.V.  ix.  25,  5.  Arusho  janayan  girah  Somah  pavate  ayushag  Indram 
gachchan  kavikratuh  \ 

"  The  ruddy  Soma,  generating  hymns,  with  the  powers  of  a  poet  (or 
with  the  understanding  of  a  sage),  united  with  men,  is  purified,  resort- 
ing to  Indra." 

ix.  76,  4 Pita  matlnum  asamashta-kavyah  \ 

11  [Soma]  father  of  our  hymns,  of  incomparable  wisdom." 
ix.  95,  2.  Harih  srijunah  pathyam  ritasya   iyartti  vdcham   ariteva 
ndvam  \  devo  devdnum  guhyani  ndma  dvishkrinoti  larhishi  pravdche  \ 

29  This  text  may  he  versified  as  follows : 

"VT'eWe  quaffed  the  soma  bright, 
And  are  immortal^grown ;  • 

We've  entered  into  light,        , 
And  all  the  gods  have  known. 
"What  foeman  now  can  harm, 
Or  mortal  vex  us,  more  ? 

,  Through  thee,  beyond  alarm, 

Immortal  god,  we  soar.          , 


266         THE  RISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

"  The  golden  [Soma]  when  poured  out  along  the  path  of  the  cere- 
mony, sends  forth  his  voic.e,  as  a  rower  propels  a  .boat.  A  god,  he 
reveals  the  mysterious  natures  of  the  gods  to  the  bard  upon  the  sacred 
grass."  (See  E.Y.  ii.  42,  1,  and  x.  116,  9,  quoted  in  p.  240^) 

ix.  96,  5  (=  S.Y.  ii.  293-5).  Somah  pavate  janitd  matlndm  janitd 
divo  janitd  prithivyeh  \  janitd  Aaner  janita  suryasya  janitd  Indrasya 
janitd  uta  Vishnoh  \  6.  Brahma  devandm  padavlh  Ttavmdm  rishir  viprdndm 
maJiisho  mrigdndm  \  syeno  gridhrdndm  svadhitir,-vanandm  Somafr  pavi- 
tram  ati  eti  relihan  \  7.  Prdvlvipad  vdchah  uftnim  no,  sindKur  girah 
somah  pavamdno  manuhdh  ityddi  \  " 

"  Soma  is  purified,  he  who  is  the  generator  of  hymns,  of  Dyaus,  of 
Pr.itb.ivi,  of  Agni,  of  Surya,  of  Indra,  and  of  Yishnu.  6.  Soma,  who 
is  a  brahman-priest  among  the  gods  (or  priests),30  a  leader  among  the 
poets,  a  rishi  among  sages,  a  buffalo  among  wild  beasts,  a  falcon  among 
vultures,  an  axe  amid  the  forests,  advances  to  the  filter  with  a  sound. 
The  purified  Soma,  like  the  sea  rolling  its  waves,  has  poured  forth 
songs,  hymns,  and  thoughts,"  etc.  (See  Benfey's  translation  of  this 
passage  in  his  Sanaa- veda,  pp.  238  and  253;  and  Nirukta-parisishta, 
ii.  12,  13.) 

Varuna. — E.Y.  viii.  41,  5,  6.  Yo  dharttd  Ihuvandndm  yah  usrdndm 
aplchyd  veda  ndmdni  guhyd  \  sa  kavih  Jcdvyd  puru  rupam  dyaur  iva 
pushyati  .  .  .  .  |  Yasmin  visvdni  Icdvyd  chalcre  ndbhir  ivi  sritd  ityddi  \ 

"  He  who  is  the  upholder  of  the  worlds  (Yaruna),  who  knows  the 
secret  and  mysterious  natures  of  the  cows,  he,  a  sage  [or  poet],  manifests 

sage  [or  poetical]  works,  as  the  sky  does  many  forms In  him  all 

sage  works  abide,  as  the  nave  within  a  wheel,"  etc.  (See  E.Y.  vii. 
87,  4,  in  p.  248,  and  ix.  95,  $,  above,  in  this  page.) 

Varuna,  Mitra,  and  Aryaman. — E.Y.  vii.  66,  11.  Vi  ye  dadhuh  sara- 
dam  mdsam  da  ahar  yajnam  aktwn  cha  dd  richam  \  anapyam  Varuno 
Mitrah  Aryamd  kshatram  rdjdnah  dsata  \ 

11  The  kings,  Yaruna,  Mitra,  and  Aryaman,  who  made  the  autumn, 
the'  month,  and  then  the  day,  the  sacrifice,  night,  and  then  the  Eich, 

possess  an  unrivalled  power."  31     fl 
*         < 

80  It  appears  from  Prof.  Benfey's  note  on  SAr.  ii.  294  (=R.V.  ix.  96,  6,  quoted 
here),  that  the  scholiast  on  that  passage  makes  devanam  =  ritvijam,  "priests." 

31  As  this  verse  ascribes  the  formation  of  the  Rich  to  the  gods  who  are  named  in 
it,  my  remark,1  in  p.  3  above,  that  the  Purusha  Sukta  contains  "  the  only  passage  in 


,  TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  267 

ffhe  following  passage  of  the  Big-  veda  has  (as  we  have  seen  above, 
p.  69,  note  79,  a!hd  p.  75)  been^  quoted  by  Indian  commentators  and 
aphorists  to  prove  the  eternity  of  the  Veda,  on  its  own  authority : 

R.V.  vKi.  64,  6.  Tasmai  ,nunam  abhidyave  vdchd  Virupa  nityayd  \ 
vrishne  chodasva  sushtutim  [. 

"J3end  forth"  praises,  Yirupa,  tojthis  heaven-ftspiring  and  prolific 
Agni,  with  perpetual  voice."  (See  i.  45,  3,  etc.,  quoted  above,  p.  220.) 

The*re,  is,  howe\^r,*no  reason  whatever  to  suppose  that  the  words 
nityayd  vdchd  mean  anything  more  than  perpetual  voice.  There  is  no 

9  ' 

ground  for  imagining  that  the  rishi  entertained  any  such  conception  as 
became  current  among  thj3  systematic  theologians  of  later  times,  that 
his  words  were  etermfl.  The  word  nitya  is  used  in  the  same  sense 
"perpetual"  in  B.Y.'ix.  12,  7  (=  S.V.  ii.  55,  2),  where  it  is  said  of 
Soma:  nitya-stotro  vanaspatir  dhlndm  antar  ityddi  \  "  The  monarch  of 
the  woods,  continually-praised,  among  the  hymns,"  etc.,  as  well  as  in 
the  two  following  texts  : 

R.V.  ix.  92,  3. — Somah  pundnah  sadah  eti  nityam  ityddi  \ 

11  The  pure  Soma  comes  to  his  perpetual  abode  [or  to  his  abode  con- 
tinually^, etc. 

x.  39,  14  (quoted  above,  p.  236).  Nityam  no,  sunum  tanayam  da- 
dhdndh  \ 

"Continuing  the  series  like  an  unbroken  line  oj:  descendants." 

The  tenor  of  the  numerous  texts  adduced  in  this  Section  seems 
clearly  to  establish  the  fact  that  some  at  least  of  the  ancient  Indian 
rishis  conceived  themselves  to  be  prompted  and  directed,  in  the  com- 
position of  their  hymns  and  prayers,  by«supernatural  aid,  derived  from 
various  deities  of  their  pantheon.  It  may  add  force  to  the  proof  de- 
rived from  these  texts,  and  show  that  I  am  the  less  likely  to  have  mis- 
understood their  purport  and  spirit,  if  I  adduce  some  evidence  that  a 
similar  conception  was  not  unknown  in  another  region  of  the  ancient 
Indo-Eur<Jpean  worldf  *and  ttat  the  expressions  in  which  the  "early 

Grecian  bards  laid  claim  to  an  inspiration  emanating  from  the  Muses, 

•         • 

or  from  Apollo,  were  not  mere  figures  of  speech,  but  significant,  origin- 
ally, of  a  popular  belief.  Most  of  the  following  passages,  from  Hesiod 

the«hymns  of  the  E.V.  in  which  the  creation  of  the  Yedas  is  described,"  requires  some 
qualification.  , 


268         THE  RISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

and  Homer,  in  which  this  idea  is  enunciated,  are  referred  to  in  Mr. 
Grote's  History  of  Greece,  i.  478. 

Hesiod,  Theogony,  22  : 

"At  vv  iroff  'KfftoSov  na\))v  eSiSa^v  aoiS^v 
"Apvas  iroifj.aivovB''  "EAi/coivos  Siro  £adfoio. 
TJvSe  8,6  fte  irp&THTTa.  deal  irpbs  favdov  eejirow,        <i 
Movcrai  'O\vfj.irtd$fs,  K(  vpai  Alas  aiyioxoio. 

es  &ypav\ot,  KO.K'  e\eyxfa,  yairrepes  Ztuv, 


*l8(j.ei>  8',  evr'  M&w/tcv,  a\ri6fa  pvOJiffairtai. 
aflj  f<paffl*:i>  Kovpai  fj-eyd^v  Alos  apTifTfetai' 
,Ka»  fj.oi  (TKriiTTpov  HSov,  8d<j>fr]$  fpiOrj\fos  fi^ov, 
Apefyaffai  6t\t\Tdv  tveirvevffav  Se  [ioi  avS^jv 
Qflriv,  us  K\eioi/j.i  rd  T'  Iffffdfieva,  irpd  T'  't6vra, 
Kcu  /xe  KfKovS1  vfive'iv  fj.aKdptav  yfvos  b.itv,-eovT<av, 
5^>Ss  T'  auras  itptarAv  re  Kal  vffrfpov  atev  delSeiv. 

"  The  Muses  once  conferred  the  dower 
On  Hesiod  of  poetic  power, 
As  underneath  the  sacred  ste^p 
Of  Helicon  he  fed  his  sheep. 
And  thus  they  spake,  '  Inglorious  race 
Of  rustic  shepherds,  gluttons  base, 
Full  many  fictions  we  can  weave 
Which  by  their  truthlike  air  deceive  ; 
But,  know,  we  also  have  the  skill 
True  tales  to  tell,  whene'er  we  will.' 
They  spake,  and  gave  into  my  hand 
A  ffir  luxuriant  laurel  wand  ; 
And  breathed  into  me  speech  divine, 
That  two-fold  science  might  be  mine  ; 
That  future  scenes  I  might  unveil, 
And  of  the  past  unfold  the  tale. 
They  hade  me  hymn  the  race  on  high 
Of  blessed  gods  who  never  die  ; 
And  evermore  begin  my  lays, 
And  end  them,  with  the  Muses'  praise." 

Hesiod,  Theogony,  94: 

'E/c  yap  Movffdcov  Kal  €KTi$6\ov  'AiroXAwi'os 
"AvSpes  dotSol  taaiv  eirl  ^Bova,  Kal  Kidapiarai, 
'EK  8e 


"  The  bards  who  strilf?  the  lyre  and  sing, 
From  Phoebus  and  the  Muses  spring  : 
From  Jove's  high  race  descends  the  king." 

The  following  are  the  words  in  which  the  author  of  the  Iliad  invokes 
the  aid  of  the  Muses,  to  qualify  him  for  enumerating  the  generals,  of 
the  Grecian  ho'st  (Iliad,  ii.  484)  : 


TO  THE  OEIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  269 


vvv  fioi  MoGcrcu  O\6/j.iria  SufjLdr'  <*xovffal> 
e'is  yap  Oeai  £<rre  irdptffTe  re  Jfcrre  re  irdvra, 
6?$  8e  K\fos  fiiov  d.KOVo/j.ev  6u8e  n  1S(j.fv. 

"  Tell  me  the  truth,  ye  Muses,  tell, 
•  Ye  wlio  on  high  Olympus  dwell  ; 

For,  omnipresent,  ye  can  scan 
^        Whate'ever  on  earth  is  done  by  man, 
,  Whilst  we  vague  rumours  only  learn 

•  And  nothing  certain  can  discern." 

Bufr  the  Muses*  c^uld  also  take  away,  as  well  as  impart,  the  gift  of 
song,  a,s  appears  from  Iliad,  ii.  594  ff.  :  . 

"Ev9a  re  Vlovffai 

'fiVTOfJLevai  ©dfjivpiv  rbv  ®p^'iKa  •na.vaa.v  doiSfjs'   • 
SreOro  yapJ-vxo/Mfvos  viKijo'efiev,  Unrep  &»/  aural 
Mot/<rafc«ei'8oie»',  Kovpai  Albs  aiyi&xoio. 
'At  5e  \o\wff<ifj.ft>ai  irijpbv  Bfffai',  dvrap  aoi5?;i' 


t(  "Twas  there  the  Muses,  we  are  told, 

Encountered  Thamyris  of  old. 

He  boastea  that  the  minstrel  throng 

To  him  must  yield  the  prize  of  song  ; 

Yes,  even  although,  among  the  rest, 

The  Muses  should  the  palm  contest. 

Aware  of  his  presumption,  they 

Both  took  his  skill  in  song  away, 

And  power  to  wake  the  tuneful  lyre  ;  — 

And  struck  him  blind,  in  vengeful  ire." 

The  following  passages  from  the  Odyssey  refer  to  Demodocus,  the 
bard  who  sang  at  the  court  of  Alcinous,  King  of  the  Phseacians  (Odys- 
sey, viii.  43  ff.): 

KaA.eVao-06  5e  Qeiov  do$6v, 
Ar)fi6$OKoV  T<$  ydp  pa.  Qebs  irtpi  S&KfV  doiSriv, 
Tepiretv,  Sirirri  6vfj.bs  tiroTpvvriffiv  deiSeu>. 

l(  And  go,  the  bard  divine  jpvite  :  — 
The  god  hath  given  him  skill 
By  song  all  others  to  delight, 
Whenever  he  may  will. 
Odyssey,  viii.  62  ff.  :  , 

K7Jpu|  5'  eyyv6fv  ?i\d€V  &ycav  tpi-fipov  doidbv 

Tbv  TTfpi  Mover'  f<pi\rja'e  SiSov  8'  dya.6&v  re  Kaicov  re,  , 

'Ocj)9a\/J.(at  [j.£i>  S/xt^wre  8i'5ou  8'  TjSe'ia.v  doIS^j/. 

"  The  herald  came,  and  within  him  brought 
The  bard  whom  all  with  longing  sought. 
The  Muse's  cfarling,  he  had  good 
As  well  as  ill  from  her  received  ; 

•  With  power  of  dulcet  song  endued,  . 

But  of  his  eyesight  too  bereaved^"  * 


270         THE  RISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

Here  the  Muse  is  described  as  the  arbitress  of  the  bard's  destiny^  in 
other  points  besides  the  gift  and  -withdrawal  of  song. 

Odyssey,  viii.  73  : 

Move*  &p'  dotSov  dvrJKev  dei$f(j.evai  K\ea  dvSpiav  K.T.\.     ' 

"  Stirr'd  by  the  Muse  the  bard  extoll'd 
Jn  song  the  deeds  of  warriors  bold." 

iy 
A  little  further  on,  Ulysses  says  of  Demodocus  (Odyssey,  viii,  479  ff.)  : 

Tlaffi  yap  dvdptSnroKKv  eirixOovioiaw  doiSol 

e/jLfj.opol  elffi  Kal  diSovs,  'dwelt'  &$.  ff<peas 
s  Mot/o1'  e5i'5a|e, 


"  All  mortal  men  with  awe  regard, 

And  honourably  treat,  the  ba*J  ;    , 

•    .  Because  the  Muse  has  taught  him"  lays, 

And  dearly  loves  his  tuneful  race."* 

And  again  he  addresses  him  thus  (Odyssey,  viii.  487)  : 

Arifj.6doK,  «|<>xa  8?)  ere  PpOTiiiiv  aivifa/j.'  atrdvroov. 
'H  <re  76  Moi/tr*  e'8i8a£e  Albs  irois,  7;  tre  y'  Air6\\ui>. 
A.ir)t>  yhp  Kara  K&fffuv  'Axatuv  dirov  aeiSeis,  K.T.A. 

"  Demodocus,  beyond  the  rest 
Of  mortals  I  esteem  thee  blest. 
For  thee,  the  Muse,  Jove's  child,  has  taught, 
Or  Phoebus  in  thee  skill  has  wrought  ; 
So  perfectly  thou  dost  relate 
The  story  of  the  Argives'  fate."  32 

Phemius,  the  Ithacan  minstrel,  thus  supplicates  Ulysses  to  spare  his 
life  (Odyssey,  xxii.  345  ff.): 

'ADT(£  TOI  jueTjiricrfl'  #x°J  fffffrai,  fixer  aoiSdv 
Tle<j>vr)s,  8s  Te  Oeoiffi  Kal  avOpdnroiaiv  aeiSea. 
'AuTo8(8a/CTOS  8"  ei/j.1,  6tbs  Se  /^oj  ev  <ppe(rli>  fitfias 
HavToias  evetpva^v. 

"  Thou  soon  wilt  grieve,  if  thou  the  bard  shouldst  slay, 
To  gods  as  well  as  men  who  pours  his  lay. 
Self-taught  I  am  ;  and  yet  within  my  mind 
A  god  h'ath  gendered  strains  of  every  kind." 

32,  "  That  is,"  says  Mr.  Grote,  "  Demodocus  has  eith,er  Oeen  inspired  as  a  poet  by 
the  muse,  or  as  a  prophef  by  Apollo,  for  the  Ho'ineric  Apollo  is  not  the  god  of  song. 
Kalchas,  the  prophet,  receives  his  inspiration  from  Apollo,  who  confers  upon  him  the 
same  knowledge,  both  of  pasc  and  future,  as  the  Muses  give  to  Hesiod."  But  does 
not  this  passage  (Odyssey  viii.  488)  rather  show  tkat  the  Homeric  Apollo  was  the  god 
of  song,  as  well  as  the  bestower  of  prophetic  intuition  ;  and  do  we  not  learn  the  same 
from  Iliad,  i.  603  ?  In  any  case,  it  is  quite  clear  from  Theog.  94,  quoted  above^that 
Hesiod  regarded  Apollo  in  this  character. 


TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  271 

* 

Jhe  early  Greeks  believed  that  the  gift  of  prophecy  also,  as  well  as 
that'of  song,  waa  imparted  by  the  gods  to^mortals.  This  appears  both 
frpm  Hesiod,  as  already  quoted,  and  from  the  following  passage  of  Homer 
(Iliad,  i.  $y)  :  • 


*Os  -ffbri  rd  r'*€(Wci  rd  r'  fffffSpeva,  irp6  T'  I6vra,, 

KoJ  vfifffff'  fiy^ffar'  'AXPJW"  "IXiov  £J<TW,  • 

*H^  Sio  /j.a.VTOffvvriv,  ri\v  61  Trope  *o?/3os  'AwJAAwj/. 

•  "  0*f  augers  -wisest,  Calchas  Jmew 

Things  ^resent,  past,  and  future  too. 
By  force  of  that  divining  skill,         *    . 
Vouchsafed  to  him  by  Phoebus'  will, 
The  Grecian  fleet  he  safely  bore 

•  From  Aulib"  bay  to  Ilion's  shore." 

,• 

It  is  thus  argued  by  Mr.  Grote  that  the  early  Greeks  really  believed 
in  the  inspiration  of  their  bards  by  the  Muses  (History  of  Greece, 
i.  477  if.): 

"  His  [the  early  Greek's]  faith  is  ready,  literal  and  uninquiring, 
apart  from  all  thought  of  discriminating  fact  from  fiction,  or  of  detect- 
ing hidden  and  symbolized  meaning  :  it  is  enough  that  what  he  hears 
be  intrinsically  plausible  and  seductive,  and  that  there  be  no  special 
cause  to  provoke  doubt.  And  if  indeed  there  were,  the  poet  overrules 
such  doubts  by  the  holy  and  all-sufficient  authority  of  the  Muse,  whose 
omniscience  is  the  warrant  for  his  recital,  as  her  inspiration  is  the  cause 
of  his  success.  The  state  of  mind,  and  the  relation  of  speaker  to  hearers, 
thus  depicted,  stand  clearly  marked  in  the  terms  and  tenor  of  the  an- 
cient epic,  if  we  only  put  a  plain  meaning  upon  what  we  read.  The 
poet  —  like  the  prophet,  whom  he  so  much  resembles  —  sings  under 
heavenly  guidance,  inspired  by  the  goddess  to  whom  he  has  prayed  for 
her  assisting  impulse.  She  puts  the  words  into  his  mouth  and  the  in- 
cidents into  his  mind  ;  he  is  a  privileged  man,  chosen  as  her  organ,  and 
speaking  from  her  revelations.  As  the  Muse  grants  the  gift  of  song  to 
whom  she  will,  so  she  sometimes  in  her  anger  snatches  it  away,  and 
the  most  consummate*  human  genius  is  then  left  silent  and  helpless.  It 
is  true  that  these  expressions,  of  the  Muse  inspiring  and  the  poet  sing- 
ing a  tale  of  past  times,  have  passed  from  tshe  ancient  epic  to  compo- 
sitions produced  under  very5  different  circumstances,  and  have  now  de- 
generated into  unmeaning  forms  of  Speech  ;  but  they  gained  currency 
originally  in  their  genuine  and  literal  acceptation.  If  poets  had  from 


272         THE  EISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

the  beginning  written  or  recited,  the  predicate  of  singing  would  never 
have  been  ascribed  to  them  ;  nor  would  it  ever  have  become  customary 
to  employ  the  name  of  the  Muse  as  a  die  to  be  stamped  on  licensed 
fiction,  unless  the  practice  had  begun  when  her  agency  WLS  invoked 
and  hailed  in  perfect  good  faith.  Belief,  the  fruit  of  deliberate  inquiry, 
and  a  rational  scrutiny  of  evidence,  is  in  such  an  age  unknown ;  the 
simple  faith  of  the  time  slides  in  unconsciously,  wh^n  the  imagination 
and  feeling  are  exalted ;  and  inspired  authority  is  r.t  once  understood, 
easily  admitted,  and  implicitly  confided  in." 

If  we  extend  our  researches  over  the  pages  of  Homer,  we  shall 
speedily  discover  numerous  other  instances  of  a  belief  in  divine  inter- 
ference in  human  affairs,  not  merely  (1)  in  the  general  government  of 
the  world,  in  the  distribution  of  good  and  evil,  and  the  allotment  of  the 
diversified  gifts,  intellectual,  moral,  and  physical,  which  constitute  the 
innumerable  varieties  of  human  condition,  but  also  (2)  in  the  way  of 
special  suggestion,  guidance,  encouragement,  and  protection,  afforded  to 
individuals. 

Illustrations  of  the  general  control  exercised  by  the  gods  over  the 
fortunes  of  mankind  may  be  found  in  the  following  passages  of  the 
Iliad,— xiii.  730  ff.,  and  of  the  Odyssey,— i.  347  f.;  iv.  236  f. ;  vi. 
188  f. ;  viii.  167-175;  xvii.  218,  485  ff. 

The  following  are  illustrations  of  the  special  interference  of  the  gods 
on  behalf  of  their  favourites:  Iliad,  i.  194 ff.,  218;  iii.  380 ff.;  v.  1  ff.; 
vii.  272;  xiii.  60  f.,  435;  xvi.  788  ff. :— Odyssey,  i.  319  ff.;  iii.  26  ff. ; 
xiv.  216  f.,  227  ;  xvi.  159  ff.33  Of  the  latter  class  of  passages,  I  quote 
two  specimens. 

Odyssey,  i.  319 ff.:  „ 

'H  fJ.tv  &p  &s  elrrovff'  aW/Srj  yXavKtains  'AO^i/r;, 
"Opvis  8"  &s  avoiraia  Sieir-raTO'  "T(f  8'  evl  6vfj.<f 
07JK6  fitvos  Kal  Odpcros,  virf[j.i>r)(rfi>  re  e  irarp6s 
Ma\\ov  'T'  fy  rb  TrdpoiOev  6  8e  (pptvlv  yen  vol]ffa.s 

Qdfji^rifftf  Kara  6vfj.6i>,  aurora  jap  Qfbv  eivai. 

(, 
"  As  thus  she  spake,  Athene  flejv         r  ^ 

Aloft,  uid  soared  heyor.d  his  view. 
His  soul  she  filled- with  force  and  fire, 
And  stronger  memory  of  his  sire. 
Amazed,  he  felt  the  inward  force, 
And  deemed  a  god  must  be  its  source." 

33  Compare  Prof.  Bladders  dissertation  on  the  theology  of  Homer  in  the  "Classical 
Museum,"  vol.  vii.  pp.  414  ff. 


TO   THE   ORIGIN   OF  THE   VEDIC   HYMNS.  273 

l 

JVhen  Telemachus  urges  his  youth  and  inexperience  as  a  reason  for 
diffidence  in  approaching  Nestor,tMinerva  snys  to  him  (Odyssey,  iii.  26) : 

•  TijA.e'yuax',  &\\a  ii.su  avrbs  eVl  <j>pfffl  fffjcri  vo^fffis, 

•  "AXAa  5f  Kal  Sai/jicaf  vTTo6i)<reTa.f  ov  yap  ofw 

"Ou  (re  Octal?  ae'/cijri  yevfaQai  re  rpaQefiei/  re. 

• 

"•Some  things  thy  mind  itself  shall  reach,    . 
And  other  things  a  god  s  Jail  teach ; 
Foi»  born  and  bred  thou  ne'er  hadst  been 
•  Unices  tfeey  gods  had  will'd,  I  ween. 

Thesei  passages,  however,  afford  only  one  exemplification  of  the  idea 
which  runs  through,  and  in  fact  created,  the  entire  mythology  of  the 
Greeks,  viz.  that  all  the  departments  of  life  and  of  nature  were  ani- 
mated, controlled,  and '.governed  by  particular  deities,  by  whom  they 
were  represented,  and  in  whom  they  were  personified. 

The  Indian  mythology, — as  is  evident  to  every  reader  of  the  Vedas, 
as  well  as  (to  some  extent)  to  the  student  of  the  Puranas, — is  distin- 
guished by  the  same  tendency  as  the  Grecian.  Indra,  Agni,  Yayu, 
Savitri,  Surya,  and  many  other  gods  are  nothing  else  than  personifica- 
tions of  the  elements,  while  Yach  or  Sarasvati  and  some  other  deities, 
represent  either  the  divine  reason  by  which  the  more  gifted  men  were 
supposed  to  be  inspired,  or  some  mental  function,  or  ceremonial  ab- 
straction. 

In  the  later  religious  history,  however,  of  the  two  races,  the  Hellenic 
and  the  Indian,  there  is  in  one  respect  a  remarkable  divergence. 
Though  the  priestesses  of  the  different  oracles,  and  perhaps  some  other 
pretenders  to  prophetical  intuition,  were  popularly  regarded  as  speak- 
ing under  a  divine  impulse,31  the  idea  of  inspiration  as  attaching  to 
poems  or  other  compositions  of  a  religio«s,  didactic,  or  philosophical 
character,  very  soon  became  extinct.  The  Greeks  had  no  sacred  Scrip- 
tures. Although  a  supernatural  character  was  popularly  ascribed  to 
Pythagoras,  Epimenides,  and  Empedocles,  the  Hellenic  philosophers  in 
general  spoke  and  wrote  in  dependance  on  their  own  reason  alone. 
They  rarely yprofessed  to,  be  guided  by  any  supernatural  assistance,  or 

claimed  any  divine  authority  for  their  dogmas.35     Nor  (unless  such 

*         * 

34  See  Nagelsbach's  Nachhomerische  Theologie,  pp.  173  ff.,  and  Dr.  Karl  Kohler's 
Prophetismus  der  Hebraer  und  die  Mantik  der  Griechen  in  ihrem  gegenseitigen  Ver- 
haltniss,  (Darmstadt,  1860),  pp.  39  ff. 

35  J  express  myself  cautiously  here,  as  a  learned  friend  profoundly»versed  in  the 
study  of  Plato  is  of  opinion  that  there  are  traces  in  the*w?itings  of  that  author  of  a 

18 


274         THE  RISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

may  have  teen  the  case  at  a  very  late  period)  was  any  infallibility 
claimed  for  any  of  them  by  tieir  successors.  <- 

In  India,  on  the  other  hand,  the  indistinct,  and  perhaps  hesitating, 
belief  which  some  of  the  ancient  rishis  seem  to  have  entertained  in 
their  own  inspiration  was  not  suffered  to  die  out  in  the  minds  of  later 
generations.  On  the^ontrary  this  belief  grew  up  (as  we  Liave  seen  above, 
pp.  67-138,  and  207  ff.)  by  degrees  into  a  fixed  persuasion  that  all  the 
literary  productions  of  those  early  sages  had  not  oaly  resulted  from  a 
supernatural  impulse,  but  were  infallible,  divine,  and  even  eternal. 
These  works  have  become  the  sacred  Scriptures  of  India.  And  in  the 
popular  opinion,  if  not  in  the  estimation  of  the  learned,  most  Indian 
works  of  any  importance,  of  a  religious,  scientific,  or  philosophical 
kind,  which  were  produced  at  a  later  period,  have  come  to  be  regarded 
as  inspired,  as  soon  as  the  lapse  of  ages  had  removed  the  writers  beyond 
familiar  or  traditional  knowledge,  and  invested  their  names  with  a  halo 
of  reverence. 

To  return  from  this  digression  to  the  inquiry  which  was  being  pur- 
sued regarding  the  opinions  of  the  ancient  Vedic  rishis  on  the  subject 
of  their  own  inspiration : 

How,  it  will  be  asked,  are  we  to  reconcile  this  impression  which 
the  rishis  manifest  of  being  prompted  by  supernatural  aid,  with  the 
circumstance,  which  seems  to  be  no  less  distinctly  proved  by  the  cita- 
tions made  in  the  preceding  section  (pp.  232  ff.),  that  they  frequently 
speak  of  themselves  as  having  made,  fabricated,  or  generated  the  hymns, 
without  apparently  betraying  any  consciousness  that  in  this  process 
they  were  inspired  or  guided  by  any  extraneous  assistance? 

In  reply  to  this  I  will  only  suggest  ( J )  that  possibly  the  idea  of  in- 
spiration may  not  have  been  held  by  the  earliest  rishis,  but  may  have 
grown  up  among  their,  successors;  or  (2)  that  it  may  have  been  enter- 
tained by  some  rishis,  and  not  by  others ;  or  again  (3),  if  both  ideas 

claim  to  supernatural  guidance,  thgugh^by  no  means  to  infallibility.  See  also  the 
mention  made  of  the  inspiration  ascribed  to  Pythagoras,  in  Mr.  Grote's  Greece,  iv. 
528,  530  ;  and  the  notices  of  Epimenides  and  Empedocles  given  by  the  same  author, 
vol.  iii.  112  ff.,  vol.  vii.  p.  174,  and  vol.  viii.  46J  f. ;  and  compare  on  the  same  sub- 
jects Bp.  Thirlwall's  Hist,  of  Greece>.ii.  32ff.,  and  155  ff. ;  and  Plato,  Legg.  i.  p.  642. 
See  also  Prof.  Geddes's  Phasdo,  note  P.  p.  251,  and  the  passages  there  referred  to; 
and  the  Tract  of  Dr.  Kohler,  above  cited,  pp.  60  and  64. 


t  TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  275 

carv  be  traced  to  the  same  author,  we  may  suppose  that  the  one  notion 
was  uppermost  in*  his  mind  at  one  moment,'  and  the  other  at  another ; 
or.(4)  that  he  had  no  very  clearly  defined  ideas  of  inspiration,  and 
might  conceive  that  the  divine  assistance  of  which  he  was  conscious,  or 
which  at  least  he  implored,  did  not  render  his  hymn  the  less  truly  the 
production  of  his  own  mind ;  that,  iij  short,  the  existence  of  a  human, 
was  not  incompatible  with  that  of  a  superhuman,  element  in  its  com- 
position. ,  '  •  • 

A 

The  f\rst  of  these  suppositions  is,  however,  'attended  with  this  diffi- 
culty, that  both  conceptions,  viz.,  that  of  independent  unassisted  com- 
position, and  that  of  inspiration,  appear  to  be  discoverable  in  all  parts 

i  •  •§ 

of  the  Rig-veda.  As  regards  the  second  supposition,  it  might  not  be 
easy  (in  the  uncertainty  attaching  to  the  Vedic  tradition  contained  in 
the  Anukramam  or  Vedic  index)  to  show  that  such  and  such  hymns 
were  written  by  such  and  su^h  rishis,  rather  than  by  any  others.  It 
may,  however,  become  possible  by  continued  and  careful  comparison  of 
the  Vedic  hymns,  to  arrive  at  some  probable  conclusions  in  regard  to 
their  authorship,  so  far  at  least  as  to  determine  that  particular  hymns 
should  probably  be  assigned  to  particular  eras,  or  families,  rather  than 
to  others.  I  must,  however,  leave  such  investigations  to  be  worked 
out,  and  the  results  applied  to  the  present  subject,  by  more  competent 
scholars  than  myself.  • 

III.  While  in  manjr  passages  of  the  Veda,  an  efficacy  is  ascribed  to 
the  hymns,  which  is  perhaps  nothing  greater  than  natural  religion 
teaches  all  men  to  attribute  to  their  devotions,  in  other  texts  a  mys- 
tical, magical,  or  supernatural  power  is  represented  as  residing  in  the 
prayers  and  metres.  (See  Weber's  VajasanSyi-Sanhitae  specimen,  p.  61 ; 
and  Vol.  I.  of  this  work,  p.  242V)  Some  of  the  following  texts  are  of 
the  latter  kind. 

Thus  in  E.V.  i.  67,  3,  it  is  said : 

Ajo  na  Jcshdm  dadhdra^prithivlm  tastambha  dydm  mantrebhih  &atyail\  \ 
"  (Agni)  who  like  tht?  unborn,  supported  the  bi;oad  earth,  and  up- 
held the  sky  by  true  prayers."  ,          t 

The  following  is  part  of  Savanna's  annotation  on  this  verse : 
Mantrair  divo  djidranam  Taittirlye  samdmndtam  \  "  devdh  vai  ddit- 
yasya+svarga-lokasya  pardcho  'tipdtdd  alibhayuh  \  tarn  chhandplhir  adri- 
han  dhrityd  "  iti  \  yadvd  satyair  mantraih  stuyamdno  'c/nir  dydm  tas- 
tamlha  iti  \ 


276          THE  RISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

"  The  supporting  of  the  sky  by  mantras  is  thus  recorded  in  ,rthe 
Taittinya:  'The  gods  feared  lest  the  sun  should  Ml  down  from  the 
heaven ;  they  propped  it  up  by  metres.'  Or  the  verse  may  mean  that 
Agni,  being  lauded  by  true  mantras,  upheld  the  sky."  * 

See  also  B.V.  i.  96,  2,  quoted  above,  in  p.  225,  and  Ait.  Br.  ii.  33, 
cited  in  the  First  Volume  of  thisrwork,  p.  180. 

i.  164,  25.  Jagatd  sindhum  divi  astabfidyad  rathantare  suryam  pari 
apasyat  \  gdyatrasya  samidhas  tisrah  dhm  tato  "maknd  pro,  r\ri\ihe  ma- 
hitvd  |  ,  "  < 

"  By  the  Jagatl  metre  he  fixed  the  waters  in  the  sky ;  he  beheld  the 
sun  in  the  Rathantara  (a  portion  of  the  Sama-veda) :  there  are  said  to 
be  three  divisions  of  the  Gayatra ;  hence  it  surpasses  [all  others]  in 
power  and  grandeur." 

iii.  53,  12.    Visvdmitrasya  rakshati  brahma  idam  Bharatam  janam  \ 

"The  prayer  of  Visvamitra  protects  this  tribe  of  the  Bharatas." 
(See  Yol.  I.  pp.  242  and  342.) 

v.  31,  4.  Brahmdnah  Indram  mahayanto  arkair  avardhayan  Ahaye 
hantavai  u  \ 

"  The  priests  magnifying  Indra  by  their  praises,  have  fortified  him 
for  slaying  Agni." 

Compare  the  following  texts  already  quoted,  iii.  32,  13,  p.  226 ;  vi. 
44,  13,  p.  227;  viii,  6,  11,  p.  228;  viii.  8,  8,  p.  243;  viii.  44,  12, 
p.  230;  viii.  63,  8,  p.  230;  x.  67,  13,  p.  244;  .and  also  i.  10,  5;  ii. 
11,  2;  ii.  12,  14;  iii.  34,  1,  2;  v.  31,  10;  viii.  6,  1,  21,  31,  35;  viii. 
13,  16;  viii.  14,  5,  11  ;  viii.  82,  27;  and  viii.  87,  8,  where  a  similar 
power  of  augmenting,  or  strengthening,  the  gods  is  attributed  to  the 
hymns. 

v.  40,  6 Gulham  suryam  tamaid  apavratena  turlyena  Irahmand 

avindad  Atrih  \  8 Atrih  suryasya  divi  chakshur  ddhdt  svarbhdnor 

apa  may  ah  aghulcshat  •{  9.  Yam  vai  suryam  svarlhanus  tamasd  avidhyad 
dsurah  \  Atrayas  tarn  anvavindan  na  hi  anye  aspknuvan  \ 

"  Atri,  by  his  fourth  prayer,  discovered  the  yun  which  Kad  been  con- 
cealed by  the  hostile  darknes^.  8 Atri  placed  the  eye  of  the  sun 

in  the  sky,  and  dispelled  the  illusions  of  Svarbhanu.  9.  The  Atris 
discovered  the  sun,  which  Svarbhanu,  of  the  Asura^  race,  had  pierced 
with  darkness ;  no  other  could  [effect  this]."  (See  Vol.  I.  of  this  work, 
pp.  242  and  469.)  <  ' 


TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  277 

» 

tvi.  75,  19  .....  Devds  tarn  sarve  dhurvantu  brahma  varma  mamdn- 
taram  \  »  ,, 

,  "  May  all  the  gods  destroy  Mm  ;  the  prayer  is  my  protecting  armour." 

vii.  19jll.  Nu  Indrct  sura  stavamdnah  utl  brahma-jutas  tanvd  vavri- 

i 
dhasva  ityddi  \ 

"  Heroic  Inofra,  lauded,  and  impelled  by  our  parayers,  grow  in  body 
through  (our)  aidJJDr  longing.],"  etc.     (Compare  viii.  13,  17,  25.) 


vii,  -33,  3.  .  .  .'.  »Ev^n  hu  ham  ddsardjne  Suddsam  prdvad  Indro  brah- 
mand  vq  Vasishthdh  |  ft  ....  Vasishthasya  styvatah  Indrah  asrod  urum 
Tritsubhyah  aJcrinod  u  lolcarn  \ 

"Indra  has  delivered  Sudas  in  the  combat  of  the  ten  kings  through 
'your  prayer,  o  Yasishtfras.  5.  Indra  heard  Yasishtha  when  he  praised, 
and  opened  a  wide  place  for  the  Tritsus."  (See  Yol.  I.  pp.  242  and  319.) 

viii.  49,  9.  Pdhi  nahAgne  elcayd  pdhi  uta  dvitlyayd  \  pdhi  girlhis  tis- 
ribhir  urjdmpate  pahi  chatasribhir  vaso  \ 

"  Protect  us,  Agni,  through  the  first,  protect  us  through  the  second, 
protect  us,  lord  of  power,  through  three  hymns,  protect  us  through 
four,  thou  bright  god." 

The  following  passage  celebrates  the  numbers  of  the  metres  : 

x.  114,  8,  9.  Sahasradhd  panchadasdni  uktha  ydvad  dydvd-prithivi 
tdvad  it  tat  \  Sahasradhd  mahimdnah  sahasram  ydvad  Irahma  vishthitam 
tdvati  vdlc  |  9.  Kas  chhandasdm  yogam  dveda  dhirah  Ico  dhishnydm  prati 
vdcham  papdda  \  Team  ritmjdm  ashtamam  suram  dhur  harl  Indrasya  ni 
chikdya  hah  svit  \ 

8.  "There  are  a  thousand  times  fifteen  ukihas  ;  that  extends  as  far 
as  .heaven  and  earth.  A  thousand  times  a  thousand  are  their  glorious 
manifestations;  speech  is  commensurate  ,,  with  devotion.  9.  What  sage 
knows  the  [whole]  series  [or,  application]  of  the  metres  ?  "Who  has 
attained  devotional  speech  ?  "Whom  do  they  call  the  eighth  hero  among 
priests  ?  Who  has  perceived  the  two  steeds  of  Indra  ?  " 

(The  word  dhishnya  is  said  by  Yaska,  Nirukta,  viii.  3,  to  be  =  to 
dhishanya,  sind  that  aga,ia  to  bg  =  to  dhishand-bhava,  "springing"  from 
dhishand,  "speech,"  or  "  sacred  spee'bh." 

I  conclude  the  series  of  texts  relating  to  the  power  of  the  mantras 
by  quoting  the  whole  of  the  'l  30th  hymn  of  the  10th  Mandala.of  the 
Rig^-veda  : 

1.  To  yajno  visvatas  tantubhis  tatah  ekaiataffi  deva-karm&hir  dyatah  \ 


278        THE  EISHIS,  AND  THEIE  OPINIONS  IN  EEGAED 

t 

ime  vayanti  pitaro  ye  dyayuh  pra  vaya  apa  vaya  dsate  tate  \  2.  Pumfin 
enam  tanute  utkrinatti  pumay  vi  tatne  adhi  ndke  asmiw,  \  ime  maytikhdh 
upa  shedur  u  sadah  sdmdni  chakrus  tasardni  otave  \  3.  Kd  dslt  prarqd 
pratimd  kim  niddnam  djyam  kirn  dslt  paridhih  'kah  dslt  \  chl^ndah  kim 
dslt  prdugam  kim  uktham  yad  devdh  devam  ayajanta  visve  \  4.  Agner 
gdyatrl  abliavat  sayugvd  uslinihayd  Savitd  sambabhuvb  \  anushtubhd 
Somah  ukthair  mahasvdn  Brihaspater  bnihatl  vdchayi  dvat  \  5.  Virdn 
Mitrdvarunayor  abhisrlr  Indrasyfl  trishtub  iha  bhdgdh  ahnah  \  Visvtin 
devdn  jagatl  dvivesa  tena<chdlclripre  rishayo  mariushydh  \  6.  Chdklripre 
tena  rishayo  manushydh  yajne  jdte  '•pitarah  nah  purdne  \  pasyan  manye 
manasd  chakshasd  tdn  ye  imam  yajnam  ayajanta  purve  \  7.  Saha-stomdh 
saha-chhandasah  dvritah  saha-pramdh  rishayan  sayfya  daivydh  \  purveshdni 
panthdm  anudrisya  dhlrdh  anvdlebhire  rathyo  na  rasmln  \ 

"1.  The  [web  of]  sacrifice  which  is  stretched  on  every  side  with 
threads,36  which  is  extended  with  one  hundred  [threads],  the  work  of 
the  gods, — these  fathers  who  have  arrived*  weave  it ;  they  sit  where  it 
is  extended,  [saying]  '  weave  forwards,  weave  backwards.'  2.  The 
Man  stretches  it  out  and  spins  it,  the  Man  has  extended  it  over  this 
sky.  These  rays  approached  the  place  of  sacrifice;  they  made  the 
Sama  verses  the  shuttles  for  the  woof.  3.  "What  was  the  measure  [of 
the  ceremonial],  what  the  form,  what  the  type,  what  the  oblation, 
what  the  enclosing  fuel,  what  the  metre,  what  the  prtiuga,  and  what 
the  uktha,  when  all  the  gods  sacrificed  to  the  god  ?  4.  The  gayatrl 
was  associated  with  Agni;  Savitri  was  conjoined  with  the  ushniha; 
and  Soma,  gladdening  (us)  through  hymns  (ukthas},  with  the  anush- 
tubh;  the  brihati  attached  itself  to  the  speech  of  Brihaspati.  5.  The 
viraj  adhered  to  Mitra  and  "Faruna ;  the  trishtubh,  a  portion  of  the 
day  (?),  [accompanied]  Indra.  The  jag^ti  entered  into  the  Yisvedevas. 
By  this  means  human  rishis  were  successful.  6.  By  this  means  our 
human  fathers  the  rishis  were  successful,  when  this  ancient  sacrifice 

36  In  R.V.  x.  57,  2,  we  find  the  same  word  tantu  occurring  :  To  yajnasya  prasa- 
dharlas  tantur  deveshu  dtatas  tarn  ahutam  nasimahi  \  v  ]Jlay  we  obtair.  him  [Agni] 
who  is  offered,  who  is  the  fulfiller  of  sacrifice,  who  is  the  thread  stretched  to  the 
gods."  (Comp.  the  versions  gjven  byf  Prof.  Miiller  in  the  Journ.  R.  A.  S.  for  1866,  pp. 
449,  and  457.)  Prof.  Eoth  quotes  under  the  word  tantu  the  following  text  from  the 
Taittiriya  Brahmana,  ii.  4,  2,  6  :  A  tantum  Agmr  divyam  tatana  \  tvani  nas  tantur 
uta  setur  Agne  tvam  panthah  bhavafl  deva-yanah  \  "Agni  has  stretched  the  divine 
thread.  Thou,  Agni,  art  our  thread  and  bridge ;  thou  art  the  path  leading  tf  the 
gods." 


TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  279 

celebrated.  I  believe  that  I  behold  with,  my  mind,  [as]  with  an 
eye,  those  ancienfts  who  performed  this  sacrifice.  7.  The  seven  wise 
and  divine  rishis,  with  hymns,  with  metres,  [with]  ritual  forms,  and 
according*  to  the  prescribed  tmeasures,  contemplating  the  path  of  the 
ancients,  have  followed  it,  Jike  charioteers  seizing  the  reins." 

I  shall  not  attempt  to  explain  the  meaning  and  purport  of  this  ob- 
scure and  mystical  hymn,  which  has  been  translated  by  Mr.  Colebrooke 
(Essays,  i.  34,  35,  »r  p.  18  of  Williams  and  Norgate's  ed.).    My  object 
in  quoting  the  verses  is"  to  show  how  the  various  metres  are  associated 
with  the  different  deities,  in  this  primeval  and  mysterious  rite,  and  how 
a  certain  sanctity  is  thus  imparted  to  them.     In  verse  7,  it  will  be 
Observed,  the  rishis  ai»e  sooken  of  as  seven  in  number,  and  as  divine. 
The  Atharva-veda  (x.  7,  43,  44)  gives  the  second  verse  somewhat  dif- 
ferently from  the  Rig-veda,  as  follows :  Pumdn  enad  vayati  udgrinatti 
pumdn  enad  vi  jabhdra  adhi  ndke  \  ime  mayukhdh  upa  tastabhur  divam 
sdmdni  chakrus  tasardni  vdtave  \   "The  Man  weaves  and  spins  this: 
the  Man  has  spread  this  over  the  sky.     These  rays  have  propped  up 
the  sky ;  they  have  made  the  Sama- verses  shuttles  for  the  woof." 

IV.  But  whatever  may  have  been  the  nature  or  the  source  of  the 
supernal  illumination  to  which  the  rishis  laid  claim,  it  is  quite  clear 
that  some  among  them  at  least  made  no  pretensions  to  anything  like  a 
perfect  knowledge  of  all  subjects,  human  and  divine,  as  they  occasion- 
ally confess  their  ignorance  of  matters  in  which  they  felt  a  deep  interest 
and  curiosity.  This  is  shown  in  the  following  texts : 

R..V.  i.  164,  5.  Pakah  prichchhdmi  manasd  avijdnan  devdndm  end 
nihitd  paddni  \  vatse  basMaye  adhi  sapta  tantun  vi  tatnire  kavayah 
otavai  u  \  6.  Achikitvdn  chikitasas  chid  atra  kavln  prichchhdmi  vidmane 
na  vidvdn  \  vi  yas  tastambha  shal  imd  rajdmsi  ajasya  rupe  kim  api  svid 
ekam  \  37.  Na  vi  jdndmi  yad  iva  idam  asmi  ninyah  sannaddho  manasd 
chardmi  \  yadd  md  dgan  prathamajdh  ritasya  d4  id  vdchah  asnuve  bhd- 
gam  asydh  \ 

II  5.  Ignorant,  not  >Knowi»g  in   my  mind,   I    enquire  after  these 
hidden  abodes  of  the  gods ;  the  sages  have  stretched  out  seven  threads 
for  a  woof  over  the  yearling  calf  [or  over  the  sun,  the  abode  of  all 
things].     6.  Not  comprehending,  I  ask  those  sages  who  comprehend 
this  matter ;  unknowing,  [I  ask]  that  I  may  know ;  what  is  the  one 
thing,  in  the  form  of  the  uncreated  one,  whp  has  uph'eld  these  six 


280         THE  RISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

worlds  ?  37.  I  do  not  recognize  if  I  am  like  this  ;  I  go  on  perplexed 
and  bound  in  mind.  "When  the  first-born  sons  of  sacrifice  [or  truth] 
come  to  me,  then  I  enjoy  a  share  of  that  word." 

I  do  not  attempt  to  explain  the  proper  sense  of  these  Odark  and 
mystical  verses.  It  is  sufficient  for  my  purpose  that  they  clearly  ex- 
press ignorance  on  tfye  part  of  the  speaker.  Prof.  Wilson's  translation 
of  the  passages  may  be  compared. '  Prof.  ^Miiller,  Anc.  Ind.  Lit.  p.  567, 
renders  verse  37  as  follows  :  "  I  know  not  what  |his  Is  that  I  am  like  ; 
turned  inward  I  walk,  chained  in  my  mind.  "When  the  first-born  of 
time  comes  near  me,  then  I  obtain  the  portion  of  this  speech." 

x.  31,  7.  J5"im  svid  vanam  kah  u  sa  vrikshah  dsa  yato  dydvd-prithivl 
nishtatakshuh  \  santasthdne  a/are  itautl  ahdm  putylr  ushaso  jaranta  \  « 

"What  was  the  forest,  what  the  tree,  out  of 'which  they  fashioned 
heaven  and  earth,  which  continue  to  exist  undecaying,  whilst  days, 
and  many  dawns  have  passed  away  ?  " 

Compare  x.  81,  4,  where  the  first  of  thes'e  lines  is  repeated  and  is  fol- 
lowed by  the  words  :  Manlshino  manasd  prichhata  id  u  tad  yad  adhy- 
atishthad  Ihuvandni  dhdrayan  \  "Ask  in  your  minds,  ye  intelligent, 
what  that  was  on  which  he  took  his  stand  when  upholding  the  worlds; " 
and  see  verse  2  of  the  same  hymn. 

i.  185,  1.  JTatardpurvd  katard  apard  ay  oh  kathdjdte  kavayo  ko  vi  veda  \ 

"  Which  of  these  two  (Heaven  and  Earth)  is  the  first  ?  which  is  the 
last  ?  How  were  thejr  produced  ?  Who,  o  sages,  knows  ? " 

x.  88,  18.  Kati  agnayah  kati  siirydsah  kati  mhasah  Icati  u  svid  dpah  \ 
na  upaspijam  vah  pitaro  vaddmi  prichchhdmi  vah  kavayo  vidmane  kam  \ 

"  How  many  fires  are  there  ?  how  many  suns  ?  how  many  dawns  ? 
how  many  waters?  I  do  not,f fathers,  say  this  to  you  in  jest ;  I  really 
ask  you,  sages,  in  order  that  I  may  know." 

Compare  x.  114,  9,  above,  p.  227. 

x.  129,  5.  Tiraschlno  vitato  rasmir  eshdm  adhah  svid  dsid  upari  svid 
dslt  \  retodhdh  dsan  mahimdnah  dsan  svadhd  avastat  prayatih  parastdt  \ 
6.  Eah  addha  veda  kah  iha  pravochat  kutah  djdta(kutah  iyamtmrishtih  \ 
arvug  devdh  asya  visafjanena  aiha  TSo  veda  yatah  dlalhuva  \  7.  lyam  vis- 
rishtir  yatah  dlabhuva  yctdi  vd  fiadhe  yadi  vd  na  \  yah  asya  adhyakshah 
parame  vyoman  sa  anga  veda  yadi  vd  na  veda  \ 

5.  "Their  ray  [or  cord],  obliquely  extended,  was  it  below,  or  was  it 
above  ?  Theve  were  generative  sources,  and  there  were  great  powers, 


TO  THE  ORIGIN   OF  THE  YEDIC  HYMNS.  281 

I 

sv^dha  (a  self-supporting  principle)  below,  and  effort  above.  6.  Who 
knows,  who  hath  here  declared,  whence  ..this  creation  was  produced, 
whence  [it  came]  ?  The  gods  were  subsequent  to  the  creation  of  this 
universe  ;*who  then  knofrs  whence  it  sprang?  7.  Whence  this  creation 
sprang,  whether  any  one  formed  it  or  not, — he  who,  in  the  highest 
heavens,  is  the  Overseer  of  this  universe, — he  indeod  knows,  or  he  does 
not  know."  ,  J 

See j  the  translation,  of  the  whole  hymn  by  Mr.  Colebrooke  in  his 
Essays,  ,i.  33,  34,  or  p.*  17  of  Williams  and  iN"orgate's  ed.  See  also 
Prof.  Miiller's  version  and  comment  in  pp.  559-564  of  his  History  of 
Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature  jand  my  own  rendering  in  the  article  on 
the  "progress  of  the  Yediareligion  towards  abstract  conceptions  of  the 
Deity,"  in  the  Journal'  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  for  1865,  pp.  345  f. 

We  have  seen  (above,  p.  62)  that  a  claim  is  set  up  (by  some  un- 
specified writer  quoted  by  Sayana)  on  behalf  of  the  Veda  that  it  can 
impart  an  understanding  of  all  things,  past  and  future,  subtile,  proxi- 
mate, and  remote ;  and  that  according  to  S'ankara  Acharyya  (on  the 
Brahma-sutras,  i.  1,  3)  as  cited  above,  p.  106,  the  knowledge  which^it 
manifests,  approaches  to  omniscience.  All  such  proud  pretensions  are, 
however,  plainly  enough  disavowed  by  the  rishis  who  uttered  the  com- 
plaints of  ignorance  which  I  have  just  adduced.  It  is  indeed  urged  by 
Sayana  (see  above,  p.  64)  in  answer  to  the  objection,  that  passages  like 
R.Y.  x.  129,  5,  6,  can  possess  no  authority  as  sources  of  knowledge, 
since  they  express  doubt, — that  this  is  not  their  object,  but  that  their 
intention  is  to  intimate  by  a  figure  of  speech  the  extreme  profundity  of 
the>  divine  essence,  and  the  great  difficulty  which  any  persons  not  well 
versed  in  the  sacred  writings  must  experience  in  comprehending  it. 
There  can,  however,  be  little  doubt  that  the  authors  of  the  passages  I 
have  cited  did  feel  their  own  ignorance,  and  intended  to  give  utterance 
to  this  feeling.  As,  however,  such  confessions  of  ignorance  on  the  part 
of  the  rishis,  if  admitted,  would  have  been  incompatible  with  the  doc- 
trine that  ttie  Yeda  was  an  infallible  source  of  divine  knowledge,  it 
became  necessary  for  the  later  theologians  who  held  that  doctrine  to 
explain  away  the  plain  sense  of  those  expressions. 

It  should,  however,  be  noticed  that  these  confessions  of  ignorance  and 
fallibility  are  by  no  means  inconsistent  with  the  supposition  that  the 
rishis  may  have  conceived  themselves  to  be  ^njmated  and  directed  in 


282         THE  EISHIS,  AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

the  composition  of  their  hymns  by  a  divine  impulse.  But  althprgh 
the  two  rivals,  Vasishtha  und  Yisvamitra,  whether^  in  the  belief  of 
their  own  superhuman  insight,  or  to  enhance  their  own  importance,  and 
recommend  themselves  to  their  royal  pafrons',  talk  proudly^about  the 
wide  range  of  their  knowledge  (see  abovo,  pp.  246  ff.),  it  is  not  ne- 
cessary to  imagine  'chat,  either  ip.  their  idea  or  in  tliat  of  the  other 
ancient  Indian  sages,  inspiration  and  infallibility  were  convertible  or 
co-extensive  terms.  The  rishis  may  have  believed  that  the  supernatural 
aid  which  they  had  received  enabled  them  to  perform  what  thoy  must 
otherwise  have  left  unattempted,  out  that'  after  all  it  communicated 
only  a  partial  illumination,  and  left  thcn^  still  liable  to  mistake  and 
doubt. 

I  must  also  remark  that  this  belief  in  their  own  inspiration  which  I 
imagine  some  of  the  rishis  to  have  held,  falls  very  far  short  of  the  con- 
ceptions which  most  of  the  later  writers,  whether  Vaiseshika,  Himan- 
saka,  or  Vedantist,  entertain  in  regard  to  the  supernatural  origin  and 
authority  of  the  Veda.  The  gods  from  whom  the  rishis  supposed  that 
th^y  derived  their  illumination,  at  least  Agni,  Indra,  Mitra,  Varuna, 
Soma,  Pushan,  etc.,  would  all  fall  under  the  category  of  productions, 
or  divinities  created  in  time.  This  is  clearly  shown  by  the  comments  of 
S'ankara  on  the  Brahma  Sutras,  i.  3,  28,  (above,  pp.  101  ff.);  and  is  other- 
wise notorious  (see  my  "  Contributions  to  a  knowledge  of  the  Vedic  The- 
ogony  and  Mythology  "  in  the  Jl.  E;  A.  S.  for  1864,  p.  63).  But  if  these 
gods  were  themselves  created,  and  even  (as  we  are  told  in  the  Rig-veda 
itself,  x.  129,  6,  cited  in  p.  280)  produced  subsequently  to  some  other 
parts  of  the  creation,  the  hymns  with  which  they  inspired  the  rishis,  could 
not  have  been  eternal.  The  6nly  one  of  the  deities  referred  to  in  the 
Big-veda  as  sources  of  illumination,  to*  whom  this  remark  would  per- 
haps not  apply,  is  Vach  or  Sarasvati,  who  is  identified  with  the  supreme 
Brahma  in  the  passage  of  the  Brihad  Aranyaka  Upanishad  quoted 
above  (p.  208,  note  179) ;  though  this  idea  no.  doubt  originated  sub- 
sequently to  the  era  of  the  hymns.  But  it  is" tot  to  created  gods,  like 
Agni,  Indra,  and  others  of  the,  same  class,  that  the  origin  of  the  Veda 
is  referred  by  the  Vaiseshikas,  Himansakas,  or  Vedantists.  The  Vai- 
seshikas  represent  the  eternal,  Isvara  as  the  author  of  the  Veda  (see 
the  passages  which  I  have  quoted  in  pp.  118ff.  and  209).  The  Ml - 
mansakas  and  Vedantipts,  as  we  have  seen  (pp.  70  ff.,  99  ff.  and  208), 


} 

TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS.  283 

either  affirm  that  it  is  uncreated,  or  derive  it  from  the  eternal  Brah- 
ma. And  even '  those  writers  who  may  attribute  the  composition  of 
th,e  Veda  to  the  personal  and  created  Brahma  (see  pp.  69,  105  f.  and 
208),  witli  the  Naiyayilias  who  merely  describe  it  as  the  work  of  a 
competent  author  (see  pp.  J16f.  and  209),  and  the  Sankhyas  (see  pp. 
135  and  208),  cbneur  with  the  other,  schools  in  affirming  its  absolute 
infallibility.  The^r  view,  consequently  (unless  we  admit  an  exception 
in  reference  to  Vach),  'differs  from  that  of  the  Vedic  rishis  themselves, 
who  do  .not  seem  to  haVe  had  any  idea,  either  of  their  hymns  being 
uncreated,  or  derived  from  the  eternal  Brahma,  or  of  their  being  in- 
fallible. _^ 

As  regards  the  relation  <*£  the  rishis  to  deities  like  Indra,  it  is  also 
deserving  of  notice  that  later  mythologists  represent  the  former,  not 
only  as  quite  independent  of  the  latter,  and  as  gifted  with  an  inherent 
capacity  of  raising  themselves  by  their  own  austerities  to  the  enjoy- 
ment of  various  superhuman  faculties,  but  even  as  possessing  the  power 
of  rivalling  the  gods  themselves,  and  taking  possession  of  their  thrones. 
See  the  stories  of  Nahusha  and  Visvamitra  in  the  First  Volume  of  this 
work,  particularly  pp.  310  ff.  and  404.  Compare  also  the  passages  from 
the  Eig-veda,  x.  154,  2,  and  x.  167,  1,  quoted  above,  p.  250,  where 
the  rishis  are  said  to  have  attained  to  heaven,  and  Indra  to  have  con- 
quered it,  by  austere-fervour  (tapas'}.  9 

SECT.  V. — Texts  from  the  Upanishads,  showing  the  opinions  of  the  authors 
regarding  their  own  inspiration,  or  that  of  their  predecessors. 

I  shall  now  adduce  some  passages  from  different  Upanishads,  to 
show  what  opinions  their  authors  entertained  either  in  regard  to  their 
own  inspiration,  or  that  of  the  earlier  sages,  from  whom  they  assert 
that  their  doctrine  was  derived  by  tradition.  -. 

I.  S'vetasvatara  TJp.^v.  2  (already  quoted  above,  p.  184).  To  yonim 
yonim  adhitishthaty  ek$  vUvdm  rupdni  yonis  cha  sarvdh  \  rishim  pra 
sutam  Kapilam  yas  tarn  agrejndnair  lilhartti  jdyamdnam  cha  pasyet  \ 

"He  who  alone  presides  over  every  place  of  production,  over  all 
forms,  and  all  sources  of  birth,  who  formerly  nourished  with  various 
knowledge  that  rishi  Kapila,  who  had  been  born,  a*d  beheld  him  at 
his  birth." 


284         THE   RISHIS,   AND  THEIR  OPINIONS  IN  REGARD 

II.  S'vetasvatara  Up.  vi.  21.  Tapah  - pralhdvdd  veda  - prasdddch  $ha 
Brahma  ha  S'vetdsvataro  'tka&tth&n  \  atydsramibhyah  paramam  pavitram 
provdcha  samyag  rishi-sangha-jushtam  \ 

"  By  the  power  of  austere-fervour,  and  by'  the  grace  of  <ihe  Veda, 
the  wise  S'vetasvatara  declared  perfectly  toc  the  men  in  the  highest  of 
the  four  orders,  the  «upreme  and  holy  Brahma,  who  is  Bought  after  by 
the  company  of  rishis."  (Dr.  Doer's  translation,  ,,p.  68,  follows  the 
commentator  in  rendering  the  first  words  of  th©  verse  thus  :  "'By  the 
power  of  his  austerity,  and  the  grace  of  God.'r  This,  however,  is  not 
the  proper  meaning  of  the  words  ieda-prasdddch  cha,  if  the  correctess 
of  that  reading,  which  is  given  both  in  l^ie  text  and  commentary  (Bibl. 
Ind.  p.  372),  be  maintained.  S'ankara  intei^rets  the  words  thus : 
"  Veda-prasdddch  cha  "  \  kaivalyam  uddiiya  tad-adhikdra-siddhaye  bahu- 
janmasu  samyag  drddhita-paramesvarasya  prasdddch  cha  \  "'By  the 
grace  of  the  Yeda :  '  by  the  grace  of  the  supreme  God  who  had  been 
perfectly  adored  by  him  during  many  births  in  order  to  acquire  the 
prerogative  of  (studying)  it  (the  Veda)  in  reference  to  kaivalya  (isolation 
from  mundane  existence) ; "  and  thus  appears  to  recognize  this  reading. 

In  the  18th  verse  of  the  same  section  of  this  Upanishad  the  Vedas 
are  said  to  have  been  given  by  the  supreme  God  to  Brahma  : 

Yo  Brahmdnam  vidadhdti  purvam  yo  vai  veddms  cha  praJiinoti  tasmai  \ 
tarn  ha  devam  alma-luddhi-prakdsam  mumukshur  vai  saranam  aham  pra- 
padye  \ 

"  Seeking  after  final  liberation,  I  take  refuge  with  that  God,  the 
manifester  of  the  knowledge  of  himself,  who  at  first  created  Brahma 
and  gave  him  the  Vedas." 

III.  Mundaka  Up.  i.  1  ff.  ..(quoted  above,  p.  30,  more  at  length). 
Brahma  devdnum  prathamah  sambalhu$a  visvasya  karttd   bhuvanasya 
goptd  |  Sa  brahma-vidydm  sarva-vidyd-pratishthdm  Atharvdya  jyeshtha- 
putrdya  prdha  \  „ 

"Brahma  was  born  the  first  of  the  gods,  he  who  is  the  maker  of  the 
universe  and  the  supporter  of  the  world.  He  f/ieclared  the  science  of 
Brahma,  the  foundation  of  all  the  sciences,  to  Atharva,  his  eldest  son." 

IV.  The  Chhandogya  Up.  viii.  15,  1,  p.  625  fF.  concludes  as  follows : 
Tad  ha  etad  Brahmd  Prajdpataye  uvdcha  Prajdpatir  Manave  Manuh 

prajdbhyah  \  dchutryya-kuldd  vedam  adhltya  yathd  mdhdnaffi  guroh  kar- 
mdtiseshena  'abhisamdvrfttya  kutumle  suchau  dese  svddhydyam  adhlydno 


TO  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  VEDIC  HYMN$,  285 

dhirmikun  vidadhad  dtmani  sarvendriydni  sampratishthdpya  ahiffisan 
sarva-bhutdni  anyatra  tlrthebhyah  sa  ltha!v  evam  varttayan  yavad-dyu- 
sham  Brahma-lokam  abhisampadyate  na  cha  punar  avarttate  na  cha  puna/r 
avarttate  \  , 

"  This  [doctrine]  Brahmfi  declared  to  Prajapati,  Prajapati  declared 
it  to  Manu,  and  Manu  to  his  descendants.  Having  received  instruc- 

M 

tion  in  the  Veda  fvom  the  family  of  his  religious  teacher  in  the  pre- 
scribed manner,  and  in  the  time  wh'ch  remains  after  performing  his 
duty  to,  his  preceptor ;'  and  when  he  has  ceased  from  this,  continuing 
his  Vedic  studies  at  home,  in  his  faihily,  in  a  pure  spot,  communicating 
a  knowledge  of  duty  [to  hispupils],  withdrawing  all  his  senses  into 
himself,  doing  injury 3to-?*£»  living  creature,  away  from  holy  places, — 
thus  passing  all  his  days,  a  man  attains  to  the  world  of  Brahma,  and 
does  not  return  again,  and  does  not  return  again  [_i.e.  is  not  subjected 
to  any  future  births]." 

I  quote  the  commencement  of  S'ankara's  comment  on  this  passage  : 

Tad  ha  etad  dtma-jndnam  sopakaranam  om  ity  etad  aksharam  ity-ddyaih 
saha  ^tpdsana^s  tad-vdchakena  granthena  ashtadhyaya-lakshanena  saJia 
Brahma  Hiranyagarlhah  Paramesvaro  vd  tad-dvdrena  Prajdpataye  Kas- 
yapdya  uvdcha  \  asdv  api  Manave  sva-putrdya  \  Manuh  prajdlhyah  \  ity 
evam  sruty-artha-sampraddya-paramparayd  dgatam  upanishad-vijndnam 
adydpi  vidvatsv  av  agamy  ate  \ 

"  This  knowledge  of  soul,  with  its  instruments,  with  the  sacred  mo- 
nosyllable Om  and  other  formulae  of  devotion,  and  with  the  book  dis- 
tinguished as  containing  eight  chapters,  which  sets  forth  all  these 
topics,  [viz.  the  Chhandogya  TJpanishad  itself]  was  declared  by  Brahma 
Hiranyagarbha,  or  by  Paramesvara  (the  supreme  God),  through  his 
agency,  to  the  Prajapati  Kasyapa.  The  latter  in  his  turn  declared  it 
to  his  son  Manu,  and  Manu  to  his  descendants.  In  this  manner  the 
sacred  knowledge  contained  in  the  Upanishad?,  having  been  received 
through  successive  transmission  of  the  sense  of  the  Veda  from  genera- 
tion to  generation,  is  to  this  day  understood  among  learned  men." 

In  an  earlier  passage  of  the  same  Upanishad  iii.  11,  3  f.  (partly 
quoted  in  the  First  Volume  of  this  work,  p.  195),  we  find  a  similar 
statement  in  reference  to  a  particular  branch  of  sacred  knowledge  (the 
madku-jndna)  : 

3.  Na  ha  vai  asmai  udeti  na  nimlochati  safa:id(  divd  ha  'eva  asmai  lha- 


286     THE  EISHIS,  AND  THE  ORIGIN  OP  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS. 


vati  yah  etdm  evam  brahmopanishadam  veda  \  4.  Tad  ha  etad 
Prajdpataye  uvdcha  Prajdpatir  Manage  Manuh  prajd'bhyah  \  tad  etad 
Udddlakdya  Arunaye  jyeshthdya  puttrdya  pita  brahma  uvdcha  \  -5. 
Idam  vdva  taj-jyeshthdya  puttrdya  pita  brahmd  prdbrHydt  prundyydya 
vd  antavdsine  (6)  no,  anyasmai  kasmaichana  \  yadyapy  asmai  imam 
adbhih  parigrihltdm  dhanasya  purndm  dadydt  etad  eva  ^ato  bhuyah  ity 
etad  eva  tato  bhuyah  iti  \  «•  0 

"3.  For  Mm  who  thus  knows,  this  sacred  mystery,  the  sun  neither 
rises  nor  sets,  but  one  day  perpetually  lasts.  4.  This  (Madhu-jndtia')  was 
declared  by  Brahma  to  Prajapati,  by  Prajapati  to  Manu,  and  by  Manu 
to  his  descendants.  This  sacred  knowledge  was  further  declared  to 
Uddalaka  Aruni  by  his  father.  5.  Let  a  fatbor  Expound  it  to  his  eldest 
son,  or  to  a  capable  pupil,  but  to  no  one  else.  6.  If  any  one  were  to 
give  him  this  entire  earth,  which  is  surrounded  by  water,  full  of 
wealth,  this  sacred  knowledge  would  be  more  than  that,  yes,  would  be 
more  than  that." 

Compare  Manu,  xi.  243,  where  that  Code  is  said  to  have  been  created 
by  Prajapati  (First  Volume  of  this  work,  p.  394);  and  Bhagavad  Gita 
iv.  1,  where  the  doctrine  of  that  treatise  is  said  to  have  been  declared 
by  Krishna  to  Vivasvat  (the  Sun),  by  Vivasvat  to  Manu,  by  him  to 
Ikshvaku,  and  then  handed  down  by  tradition  from  one  royal  rishi 
to  another  (Vol.  I.  p.  508). 


> 
287 


*, 

.  APPENDIX. 


Page  4,  line  5. 

I  have  omitted  her%J  &e  verse  from  the  Atharva-veda,  xi.  7,  24 
(quoted  by  Professor  Groldstitaker  in  his  Panini,  p.  70) :  Richah  sdmuni 
chhanddmsi  purdnam  yajushd  saJia  \  uchchhishtdj  jajnire  sarve  divi  devdh 
divisritah  \  "  From  the  leavings  of  the  sacrifice  sprang  the  Rich-  and 
Saman-verses,  the  metres,  the  Parana  with  the  Yajush,  and  all  the 
gods  who  dwell  in  the  sky." 

Professor  Aufrecht  has  favoured  me  with  the  following  amendments 
in  my  translations  in  pp.  7  and  8  : 

Page  7,  line  13. 

For  "the  text  called  sdvitrl  [or  gayatrl]"  he  Trould  substitute  "the 
verse  dedicated  to  Savitri." 

Page  7,  line  16. 

For  "the  mouth  of  Brahma"  he  proposes  "the  beginning  of  the 
Veda."  (Sir  "W.  Jones  translates  "the  mouth,  or  principal  part  of  the 
Veda."} 

Page  8,  line  8. 

For  "  from  Vach  (speech)  as  their  world"  he., proposes  "  out  of  the 

sphere  (or  compass)  of  speech." 

O  '  * 

* J     Palje  «,  line  8.  ^ 

For  "  Vach  was  his :  she  was  created  "  he  pp»poses  "For  in  creating 
the  Vedas,  he  had  also  created  Vach." 

Page  8,  line  13. 
For  " He  gave  it  an  impulse"  he  proposes  '/He  touched  it." 


288  APPENDIX. 

c 

Page  8,  line  16.  <- 

For  "  Moreover  it  was  sacred  knowledge,  which  was  created,  from 
that  Male  in  front"  he  proposes  "For  even  from  that  Male  (not  only 
from  the  waters)  Brahma  was  created  first." 

i 
« 

Page  $,  line  (16. 

This  passage  of  the  Brihad  t  Aranyaka  TJpauisb.a'd  corresponds  to 
S'atapatha  Brahmana  x.  f>,  5,  5.  f1 

Page  10,  line  2. 

"May  the  brilliant  deity,"  etc.,  ProfesSR.  Aij/recht  would  prefer  to 
translate  the  second  line  of  the  verse,  begir^iing  tudevah  (p.  9, 1.  6  from 
the  foot),  "  Goodness  (the  good  god)  only  knows  where  they  put  the 
earth  which  was  thrown  up  (nirvapana)." 

Page  20,  line  17. 
See  Asvalayanas  Grihya  Sutras,  pp.  155,  and  157  ff. 

Page  22,  line  13,  note  25. 

I  quote  two  verses  from  Manu,  of  which  the  second  confirms  the  cor- 
rectness of  the  rendering  I  have  given  of  the  words  a  ha  eva  sa  nakhd- 
grebhyas  tapyate,  and  the  first  illustrates  the  text  of  the  Taittiriya 
Aranyaka  cited  in  the  note :  Manu  ii.  166.  Vedam  eva  sadd  'bhyasyet  ta- 
pas tapsyan  dvijottamah  \  veddbhydso  hi  viprasya,  tapah  param  ihochyate  \ 
167.  "Ahaivasa  nakhdgrebhyah  "  paranam  "tapyate"  tapah  \  yah  sra- 
gvy  api  dvijo  'dhlte  svadhyuyam  saktito  'nvaham  \  "  Let  a  good  Brahman 
who  desires  to  perform  tapas  constantly  study  the  Veda ;  for  such  study  is 
a  Brahman's  highest  tapas.  167.  That  twice-born  man  who  daily  studies 
the  Veda  to  the  utmost  of  his  power,  even  though  (luxuriously)  wearing 
a  garland  of  flowers  (really)  performs  the  highest  tapas  to  the  very  ex- 
tremities of  his  nails."  This  verse,  it  will  be  observed,  quotes  verbatim 
one'of  the  phrases  of  the  Brahmana,  f and  gives  definiteness' to  i^sense 
by  adding  the  words  paramam  tapah.  Verses  165  fi°.  of  the  same  book  of 
Manu  prescribe  the  abstemious  mode  of  life  which  the  student  (Irah- 
machariri)  is  to  follow  whilst  living  in  his  teacher's  house.  The  Maha- 
bharata,  Udyoga-parvan,  1537,  thus  states  the  conditions  of  successful 
study  in  general ;  Sukhfirthinah  kuto  vidyd  ndsti  vidydrthinah  sukham  \ 


APPENDIX.  289 

sukhdrthl  vd  tyajed  vidydm  vidydrthl  vd  tyajet  sukham  \  "  How  can  one 
who  seeks  ease  acquire  science,?  Ease  does  not  belong  to  him  who 
pursues  science.  Either  let  the  seeker  of  ease  abandon  science,  or  the 
seeker  of  %cience  abandon  ease." 

Page  30,  line  17.          , 

Compare  the  lines  quoted  by  the  Commentator  on  S'andilya'sBhakti- 
sutra,  .83,  p.  60,  from. the  <Mahabharat,a,  Santiparvan,  Moksha-dharma, 
verses  13,551  if. :  Sahopanishado  veddn  ye  viprdh  samyag  dsthitdh  \  pa- 
{hanti  vidhim  dsthdya  ye  chdpi  yatb-dharminah  \  tato  visishtdm  jdndmi 
gatim  efcdntindm  nrindm  |  "I  regard  the  destination  of  Ekantins  (persons 
devoted  to  the  One  as,-.4iveir  end)  as  superior  to  that  of  Brahmans  who 
perfectly  study  the  Ve'das,  ifoluding  the  Upanishads,  according  to  rule, 
as  well  as  to  that  of  those  who  follow  the  practices  of  ascetics  (yatis)? 

Rage  34,  line  1. 

Perhaps  this  was  scarcely  a  suitable  passage  to  be  quoted  as  depre- 
ciatory of  the  Veda,  as  in  such  a  stage  of  transcendental  absorption  as 
is  here  described  all  the  ordinary  standards  of  estimation  have  ceased 
to  be  recognized. 

Page  43,  line  10. 

With  the  expression  hrid-akdsa,  "  the  aether  o£  the  heart,"  compare 
the  passage  quoted  from  the  Veda  in  S'ankara's  commentary  on  Brahma 
Sutra  iii.  2,  35  (p.  873) :  "Yo  'yam  vahirdha  purmhdd  d/cdso  yo  ''yam 
antah-purushe  dkdso  yo  'yam  antar-hridaye  dktisah  \  "  This  aether  which 
is  external  to  a  man,  this  aether  which  is  within  a  man,  and  this  aether 
which  is  within  the  heart."  See  also  the  Brihad  Aranyaka  Upanishad 
ii.  5,  10  and  iii.  7,  12.  t 

Page  44,  line  1. 

See  the  Yoga  aphorisms  i.  2  ff.  as  cited  and  explained  by  Dr.  Ballan- 
tyne.1  The  second  aphorism  defines  yoga  to  be  "a  stoppage  of  ;the 
functions  of  Ihe  mind  "  ffiogas  9hitla-iyitti-nirodha$}.  "  The  mind  then 
abides  in  the  state  of  the  spectator,  i.e.  ihe  So.»l "  (tadd  drashtuh  sva- 
rupe'vasthdnam — A.ph.  3).  "§At  other  times  i£  takes  the  form  of  the 

* 

1  Two  fasciculi  only,  containing  two  Piidas  and  106  Sutras,  were  published  at  Alla- 
habacf  in  1852  and  1853  ;  but  a  continuation  of  Dr.  B.'s  work  has  bt£n  commenced 
in  the  "Pandit"  for  Sept.  1868.  '  * 

19 


290  APPENDIX. 

functions"  (vritti-sarupyam  itaratra — Aph.  4).  These  functions,  or 
modifications  (as  Dr.  Ballantyne  translates)  are  fivefold,  and  either 
painful,  or  devoid  of  pain,  viz.  proof,  or  right  notion  (pramdna),  mis- 
take (yiparyyaya),  groundless  imagination  (vikal/pa),  sleep  (nidra), 
recollection  (smriti]  —  Aphorisms  5-11.  See  also  Dr.  Ballantyne' s 
Sankhya  Aphorisms,  iii.  31  ff. 

Page  57,  note  61. 

With  the  subject  of  this  note  compare  the  remarks  in  p.  108,  and 
the  quotations  from  Dr.  Roer  anc"  Professor  Miiller  in  pp.  173,  175, 
and  193. 

Page  62,  note^KC,.  „* 

Professor  Co  well  does  not  think  that  th*7  text 'is  corrupt.  He  would 
translate  it,  "  the  other  pramdnas,  beside  sabda,  (scil.  perception  and 
inference),  cannot  be  even  supposed  in  a  case  like  this  "  (which  refers 
to  sujch  a  transcendental  object  as  the  existence  of  an  eternal  Veda). 
Sayana,  in  his  reply  to  the  objector,  recapitulates  the  applicable  proofs 
as  sruti,  smriti,  and  loka-prasiddhi, — all  three  only  different  kinds  of 
testimony,  sabda. 

Page  63,  lines  llf.,  and  note  68.          ^ 

Compare  pp.  322  f.,  329  f.,  334  f.,  and  337  of  my  article  "On  the 
Interpretation  of  the  Yeda,"  in  the  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  So- 
ciety for  1866. 

Page  84,  note  89,  and  page  180,  line  7. 

I  have  been  favoured  by  Professor  Cowell  with  the  following  note 
on  kdldtyaydpadisJita : 

"My  Calcutta  Pandit  considered  this  fallacy  to  be  the  same  as  that 
more  usually  called  ladha  (cf.  too  Bfrashaparichchheda,  si.  70,  77," 
and  the  Bengali  translation,  p.  65).  Its  definition  is  pahhe  sddhyd- 
bhdvah.  The  Tarka-^angraha  defines  a  hetu  as  Iddhita,  '  when  the 
absence  of  what  it  seeks  to  prove  is  established  for  certain  by 
another  proof,'  as  in  .the  argument1  vahnir  anushno  dravyatvdt.  The 
essence  of  this  fallacy  is  that  you  deny  the  major,  and  therefore  it 
does  not  matter  whether  you  accept  the  middle  term  in  itself  or 
not.  It  is  involved  in  the  overthrow  of  the  major  term.  I  should 
translate  it  the  'precluded  argument,' — it  might  have  been  .plau- 
sible if  it  had  not  been  put  out  of  court  by  something  which  settles 


> 

t  APPENDIX.  291 

thfj point, — it  is  advanced  too  late  (the  pre  in  precluded'  expresses  the 
kdldtlta  of  the  old  name).  This  corresponds  to  the  account  in  the 
Nyaya-sutra- vritti :  Kdlasya  sddhana-kdlasydtyaye  'bhdve  Jpadishtah 
prayukto  'fietur  \  etena  sddh/dbhdvapramdlakshandrtha  iti  suchitam  \ 
sudhydbhdvanirnaye  sddhanusambhavdt  \  Ay  am  eva  bddhitasddhyaka  iti 
giyate.  The  Y?itti  goes  on  to  say  that  you  need  ndt  prove  vyabhichdra 
(i.e.  that  your  opponent's  hetu  6r  middle  terra  goes  too  far,  as  imparvato 
dhuma^dn^  vahneh  wfoe/e  vahni  is  a  sitvyabhichdro  hetuh}  in  order  to 
establish,  the  bddha.  I  should  therefore  prefer*  t<j  translate  the  passage 
from  the  Yedartha-prakasa,  p.  84,  '  your  alleged  middle-term  vdkyatva> 
the  possessing  the  properties  .of  a  common  sentence,  is  liable  to  two 
objections, — (1)  it  is  opc/os^d  by  the  fact  that  no  author  was  ever  per- 
ceived, and  (2)  it  also  is  precluded  by  weighty  evidence  (which  proves 
that  your  proposed  major  term  is  irrelevant).'  Sayana  then  adds  his 
reasons  for  each  objection, — fjpr  the  first,  in  the  words  from  yathd  Vydsa 
down  to  upalabdhah]  for  the  second,  in  the  fact  that  smriti  and  iruti 
agree  in  the  eternity  of  the  Yeda  (the  purvam  I  suppose  refers  to  p.  3 
of  the  Calcutta  printed  text),  and  that  even  if  the  Supreme  Spirit  be 
the  author  he  is  not  purmhah  in  the  sense  in  which  the  objector  uses 
the  term.  Either  way,  the  major  term  of  the  objector's  syllogism  pau- 
rusheya  is  precluded,  bddhita;  or,  in  the  technical  language  of  the 
Nyaya,  Sayana  establishes  an  absence  from  the  mijior  term  (paksha}  of 
the  alleged  major  term  (sddhya] ;  and  hence  no  conclusion  can  be 
drawn  from  the  proposed  syllogism.  I  may  add  that  I  have  also 
looked  into  Vatsyayana,  but  his  explanation  seems  to  me  an  instance 
of  what  my  Pandit  used  so  often  to  impress  on  me,  that  the  modern 
logic  (which  such  a  late  medieval  writer  as  Sayana  follows)  is  not  always 
that  of  the  Nyayabhashya.  Hft  makes  the  error  lie  in  the  example, 
i.e.  in  the  induction ;  and  it  is  therefore,  as  Professor  Goldstiicker  says* 
a  '  vicious  generalization.'  "  » 

»  f»Page  988ltnote  95. 

Professor  Cowell  disagrees  with  the  explanation  I  have  hazarded  of 
the  object  of  the  sentence  in  the  text  to  which  this  note  refers.  He 
thinks  that  its  purport,  as  shewn  by  the  word  vyabhichdrdt,  is  to.  in- 
timate, that  the  former  of  the  two  alternative  suppositions  would  prove 
too  much,  as  it  would  also  apply  to  such  detached  stanzas  as  the  one 


292  APPENDIX. 

• 
referred  to,  of  which  the  author,  although  unknown  to  some  perstms, 

was  not  necessarily  unknown  to  all,  as  his  contemporaries  no  doubt 
knew  who  wrote  it,  and  his  descendants,  as  well  as  others,  might  per- 
haps still  be  aware  of  the  fact.  In  this  case,  therefore,  we  have  an  in- 
stance of  a  composition  of  which  some  persons  did  not  know  the  origin, 
but  which  nevertheless  was  not  superhuman  (apaurmheya).  This  is 
no  doubt  the  correct  explanation. 

-     Page  99,  line  1.     ° 

The  argument  in  proof  of  the  incompetence  of  the  S'udras  for  the 
acquisition  of  the  highest  divine  know^^e  is  contained  in  Brahma 
Sutras  i.  3,  34-38.  As  the  subject  may  possess  an  interest  for  any 
educated  persons  of  this  class  into  whose  hands  this  book  may  fall  in 
India,  I  extract  the  entire  discussion  of  the  question  : 

34.  "  S'ug  asya  tad-anddara-sravandt  tad-ddravandt  suchyate  hi "  ] 
yathd  manushyddhikdra-niyamam  apodya  devddlndm  api  vldydsv  adhi- 
kdrah  uktas  tathaiva  dvijdty-adhikdra-niyamdpavddena  sudrasya  apy 
adhikdrah  sydd  ity  etdm  dsankdm  nivarttayitum  idam  adhikaranam  dra- 
bhyate  \  tattra  sudrasya  apy  adhikdrah  sydd  iti  tdvat  prdptam  arthitva- 
sdmarthyayoh  sambhavdt  \  tasmdch  "  chhudro  yajne  'navaklriptah  "  iti- 
vach  chhudro  vidydydm  anavalclriptah  iti  nishedhdsravandt  \  yach  cha 
karmasv  anadhilcdra-?:dranam  sudrasya  anagnitvam  na  tad  vidydsv  adhi- 
kdrasya  apavddakam  \  na  Jiy  dhavamyddi-rahitena  mdyd  veditum  na 
idkyate  \  lhavati  cha  lingam  sudrddhikdrasya  upodlalaham  \  samvarga- 
vidydydm  hi  Jdnasrutim  Pautrdyanam  susrushum  sudra-saldena  pard- 
mrisati  "aha  hare  tvd  sudra  tava  eva  saha  gobhir  astv"  iti  \  Vidura- 
prabhritayas  cha*sudra-yoni-pral>havdh  api  visishta-vijndna-sampanndh 
smaryyante  \  tasmdd  adhikriyate  sudro  v\dydsu  \  ity  evam  prdpte  brumah  \ 
na  sudrasya  adhikdro  vedddhyayandbhdvdt  \  adhlta-vedo  hi  vidita-vedartho 
vedartheshv  adhikriyate  \  na  cha  sudrasya  vedddhyayanam  asty  upanayana- 
pvrvakatvddvedddhyayanasya  upanayanasya  chct-varna-traya-vishayatvdt  \ 
yat  tv  arthitvam  na  tad  asati  sfrnarihye  'dhik&ra-kdranam'  bhavati  \  sd- 
marthyam  api  na  lait^kam  J:eralam  adhikdra-kdranam  bhavati  sdstriye 
'rthe  sdstnyasya  sdmarthyasya  apekshitatvdt  sdstriyasya  cha  sdmarthya- 
sya  adhyayana-nirdkaranena  '.lirdkritatvdt  \  yach  cha  idam  sudro  yajne 
'navaklriptch  iti  tad  nydya-purvakatvdd  vidydydm  apy  anavaklripfytvam 
dyotayati  nydyasya  sdUhdranatvdt  \  yat  punah  sarnvarga-vidydydm  sudra- 


APPENDIX.  293 

»  • 

sabda-sravanam  lingam  manyase  na  tal  lingam  nydydbhdvdt  \  nydyokter 
hi  l$nga-darsanaif>t  dyotakam  bhavati  na  cha  tattra  nydyo  'sti  \  kdmam  cha 
ayam  iudra-sabdah  samvarga-vidydydm  eva  ekasydm  sudram  adhikuryydt 
tad-vishayytvdd  na  sarvdiu  vidydsu  \  arthavdda-sthatvdt  na  tu  kvachid  apy 
ayam  sudram  adhikarttum  utsahate  [  Sakyate  cha  ayam  sudra-sabdo  'dhi- 
krita-vishaye  ycyayitum  \  katham  iti  \  uchyate.  \  "  '  fyam  u  are  enam  etat 
santam  sayugvdnam  iva  Rainham  dtthtt'  (Chandogya  TJpanishad,  iv.  1,  3.) 
ity  asntdd  hamsa-vd^ydd  dtmano  'nddaram  srutavato  Jdnasruteh  Pautrd- 
yanasya  *£ug  utpede  tdm+rishl  Rainkah  sudra-sabdena  anena  suchaydmba- 
Ihuva  dtmanah  paroksha-jndnasya  ktydpandya  iti  gamyate  jdti-sudrasya 
anadhikdrdt  I  katham  punah  sudra-sabdena  sug  utpanna  suchyate  iti  \ 
uchyate  \  tad-ddravandt  $,ncjittm  abhidudrdva  suchd  vd  'bhidudruve  suchd 
vd  Rainkam  abhidudr&va  iti\  sudrdvayavdrtha-sambhavdd  rudhdrthasya 
cha  asambhavdt  \  drisyate  cha  ayam  artho  'sydm  dkhydyikdydm  \ 

35.  "Kshattriyatva-gatei  cha  uttarattra  Chaitrarathena  lingdtn  \  lias 
cha  na  jdti-sudro  Jdnasrutir* yat-kdranam  prakarana-nirupanena  kshat- 
triyatvam  asya  uttarattra  Chaitrarathena  Abhipratdrind  hhattriyena 
samabhwydhdrdl  lingdd  gamyate  \  uttarattra  hi  samvarga-vidyd-vdkya- 
seshe  Chaitrarathir  Abhipratdri  kshattriyah  sankirttyate   \    "  atha   ha 
S'aunakam  cha  Kdpeyam  Abhipratdrinam  cha  Kdkshasenim  sudena  pari- 
miyamdnau  brahmachdrl  bibhikshe"  (Chh.  Tip.  iv.  3,  5)  iti  \    Chaitra- 
rathitvam  cha  Abhipratdrinah  Kdpeya-yogdd  avagantavyam  \  Kdpeya- 
yogo  hi  Chaitrarathasya  avagatah  \   "  etena  vai  CRaitraratham  Kdpeydh 
aydjayann"  iti  samdndnvaya-ydjindm  cha  prdyena  samdndnvaydh  ydja- 
kdh  bhavanti  \  tasmdch  (l Chaitrarathir  ndma  ekah  kshattra-patir  ajdyata" 
iti  cha  kshattra-jdtitvdvagamdt  kshattriyatvam  asya  avagantavyam  \  tena 
kshattriyena  Abhipratdrind   saha  samdndyam  vidydydm   sanklrttanam 
Jdnasruter  api  kshattriyatvam  suchayati  \  samdndndm  eva  hi  prdyena 
samabhivydhdrdh  bhavanti   \    kshattri-preshanddy-aisvaryya-yogdch   cha 
Jdnasruteh  kshattriyatvdvagatih  \  ato  na  iudrasya  adhikdrah  \ 

36.  " Samskdra-pardmarsdt  tad-abhdvdbhildpdch  cha  "  |  itas  cha  na 
sudrasyd   adjiikdro  yaa  vidyd-pradeseshu  upanayanddayah   samskctrdh 
par dmrisy ante  "  tarn  ha  upaninye"  | '"  ' adhlhi  bhngavah'  iti  ha  upasa- 
sddan  |  <f  brahma-pardh  brahma-ni&hthdft pararfa  Brahma  anveshamdndh 
'  esha  ha  vai  tat  sarvam  vaksltyati '  iti  te  ha  somit-pdnayo  bhagavantam 
Pippalddam  upasanndh"  iti  cha  "  tdn  na  anupanlya  eva'l  ity  api pra- 
darsitd  eva  upanayana-prdptir  bhavati  \   sudrasya  cha  s&mskdrdbhdvo 


294  APPENDIX. 

• 

^bhilapyate  "sudras  chaturtho  varnah  elcajatir"  ity  ekajdtitva-smaranena 
"no*  sudre  pdtakam  kinchid  ra  cha  samskdram  arhati"<ity-ddilhis  cha  \ 

37.  "  Tad-alhdva-nirdhdrane  cha  pravritteh "  |  Itas  cha  na  sudrasya 
adhikdro  yat  satya-vachanena  sudratvdbhave  nirdhdrite  Jdbdlim  Gauta- 
mah  upanetum  anusdsitum  cha  pravavrite  "  na  etad  alrdhmano  vivaktum 
arhati  \  samidham  scmya  dhara  upa  tvd  neshye  na  satyCd  agdh  "  (Chh. 
Up.  iv.  4,  5)  iti  sruti-lingat  \ 

38.  "  S'ravanadhyayanartha-pratishedhat  smrrtes  cha  "  |  Itas  cha  na 
Sudrasya  adhikdro  yad  asya  smriteh  sravanddhyayanartha-pratishedho  bha- 
vati  |  veda-sravana-pratishedho  iifdddhayana-pratishedhas  tad-artha-jna- 
ndnushthdnayos  cha  pratishedhah  sudrasya  smaryyate  \  sravana-pratishe- 
dhas  tdvad  atha  asya  "vedam  upasrinvatas  trc^-jatubhydm  srotra-prati- 
puranam  "  iti  " padyu  ha  vai  etat  smasdnam  yat  sudras  tasmdt  sudra- 
sarnlpe  na  adhyetavyam  "  iti  cha  \   atah  eva  adhy  ay  ana- pratishedhah  \ 
yasya  hi  sarmpe  ''pi  na  adhyetavyam  bhavati  sa  katham  srutim  adhlyiyata  \ 
lhavati  cha  uchchdrane  jihvd-chhedo  dhdrane  sarira-lhedah  iti  \  atah  eva 
cha  arthdd  artha-jndndnushthdnayoh  pratishedho  lhavati  \  "  na  sudrdya 
matim  dadydd"  iti  "  dvijdtindm  adhyayanam  ijya  ddnam"  iti  cha  \ 
yeshdm  punah  purva-krita-samskdra-vasdd  Vidura-dharma-vyddha-pra- 
bhritmdm  jndnotpattis  teshdm  na  sakyate  phala-prdptih  pratiladdhum 
jndnasya  ekdntika-phalatvdt  \  "  srdvayech  chaturo  varndn  "  iti  cha  iti- 

hdsa-purdnddhigame  chdturvarnyddhikdra-smarandt  \   veda-purvakas  tu 

>f 

nasty  adhikdrah  iudrdndm  iti  sthitam  \ 

34.  "In  the  word  'S'udra'  reference  is  made  to  his  vexation  on 
hearing  that  disrespectful  expression,  and  to  his  running  up." 

"  This  section  is  commenced  to  silence  the  doubt  whether  in  the  same 
way  as  it  had  been  denied  (above)  that  the  prerogative  of  acquiring 
divine  knowledge  is  restricted  to  men,  fand  affirmed  that  it  extends  to 
the  gods,  etc.,  also,  the  limitation  of  the  same  prerogative  to  twice- 
born  men  may  not  also  be  questioned,  and  its  extension  to  S'udras 
maintained.  The  grounds  alleged  in  favour  of  the  S'udra  having  this 
prerogative  are  that  he  may  reasonably  be  supposed  to  have  both  («) 
the  desire  and  (J)  the  power  of  acquiring  knowledge,  and  that  accord- 
ingly (c]  the  Yeda  contains  no  text  affirming  his  incapacity  for  know- 
ledge, as  it  confessedly  has  texts  directing  his  exclusion  from  sacrifice  : 
and  further  (J)  that  the  fact  of  the  S'udra's  not  keeping  up  any  sacred 
fire,  which  is  the  cause  of  his  incapacity  for  sacrifice,  affords  no  reason 


APPENDIX.  295 

• 

for  denying  to  him  the  prerogative  of  gaining  knowledge ;  since  it  can- 
not* be  maintained  that  it  is  impossible  £or  a  man  who  is  destitute  of 
the  ahavanlya  and  other  fires  to  acquire  knowledge.  There  is  also  (e) 
in  a  Vedyj  text  a  sign  which  confirms  the  S'udra' s  prerogative.  For  in 
the  passage  which  treats  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Samvarga  (Chhan- 
dogya  Upanishfld,  chapter  iv.  section  1-3)  a  speaker  designates  Jana- 
sruti,  descendant  of  Janasruta,  in  th5  third  generation,  who  was  desirous 
of  performing  ser^ic'e,  by  the  term  S'udra :  '  Keep  to  thyself,  o  S'udra, 
thy  necklace  and  chariot2  with  thy  cattle.'  (Chh.  Up.  iv.  2,  2.)  And 
further  (/)  Yidura  and  others  are  ipoken  of  in*the  Smriti  as  possessed 
of  distinguished  knowledge,  although  they  -were  of  S'udra  descent. 
•  Consequently  the  S'u<?^% efcjoys  the  prerogative  of.  acquiring  various 
sorts  of  divine  knowtege.  ^To  this  we  reply :  The  S'udra  has  no  such 
prerogative,  because  he  cannot  study  the  Yeda.  For  it  is  the  man  that 
studies  the  Veda,  and  obtains  a  knowledge  of  its  contents,  who  enjoys 
the  prerogative  of  [access  *fco]  those  contents.  But  a  S'udra  does  not 
study  the  Veda,  for  such  study  must  be  preceded  by  initiation,  which 
again  is  confined  to  the  three  upper  castes.  As  regards  (a)  the  desire 
of  knowledge, — that,  in  the  absence  of  power,  confers  no  prerogative. 
And  (5)  mere  secular  power. does  not  suffice  for  the  purpose;  since 
scriptural  power  is  necessary'  in  a  matter  connected  with  Scripture  ; 
and  such  scriptural  power  is  debarred  by  the  debarring  of  study.  And 
(c)  the  passage  which  declares  that  a  '  S'udra  is'incapacitated  for  sacri- 
fice,' demonstrates  his  incapacity  for  knowledge  also ;  since  that  follows 

2  Such  is  the  sense  given  to  haretva  by  the  Commentators,  who  make  it  out  to  he 
a 'compound  of  the  words  hara,  "necklace,"  and  itva,  "a  chariot;"  but  although 
itva  might  be  the  nominative  of  itvan,  "going,"  no  such  word  appears  in  the  lexicons 
with  the  sense  of  "chariot."  Befides,  the  compound  seems  a  very  awkward  one. 
Perhaps  the  word  should  be  separated  into  ha  are  tva  ;  but  then  there  would  be  no 
nominative  to  astu,  and  it  would  be  difficult  to  construe  tva,  "  thee." — Since  the 
above  was  written,  I  have  been  favoured  with  a  note  ^on  the  passage  by  Professor 
Goldstucker.  He  conjectures  that  the  words  should  be  divided  as  follows  :  ahaha  are 
tva  S'udra  tava  eva  saha  fiofchir  astu;  that  tva  may  be  the  nominative  singular  femi- 
nine of  the  Vedic  pronoun*  tva,  mea*nin|  "f>pme  one,"  and  then  the  sense  might  be  as 
follows :  "  0,  friend,  some  woman  belongs  to  thee,  S'udra !  Let  her  be  (i.«.  come) 
along  with  the  cows."  And  Janas'ruti  would  appear  tb  have  understood  the  word  tva 
in  this  sense  here  supposed,  for  w«  find  that  on  hearing  the  reply  of  Raikva,  he  took 
his  daughter  to  the  latter,  along  with  four  hundred  additional  cows  and  the  other 
gitys ;  apd  that  on  seeing  the  damsel,  Raikva  expressed  his  satisfaction  and  acceded 
to  the  request  of  her  father. — The  author  of  these  puzzling  words,  ?t  seems,  intended 
a  pun ;  and  S'ankara  perhaps  gave  only  one  solution*o*  it. 


296  APPENDIX. 

from  the  rule,  which  is  of  general  application.  As  regards  the  circum- 
stance that  in  the  Vedic  text  regarding  the  knowledge  of  the  Sdm- 
varga,  the  word  S'udra  occurs,  which  you  regard  as  a  sign  in  favour  of 
your  view ;  it  is  (d}  no  sign ;  because  in  that  passage  no  rule  is  laid 
down.  For  the  discovery  of  a  sign  indicates  that  a  rule  has  been 
laid  down;  but  in  the  passage  in  question  there  is,, no  such  rule. 
And  although  it  were  conceded  *nat  [if  it  were  found  in  a  precept 
regarding  the  Samvarga]  the  word  S'udra  would  confer  on  a  man  of 
that  caste  a  prerogative  in  regard  to  that  particular  knowledge  alone, 
(from  its  being  intended  for  him),  Although  not  to  all  sorts  of  know- 
ledge, yet  as  the  word  occurs  [not  in  precept,  but]  in  an  illustrative 
narrative  (arthavada)  it  cannot  confer  on^briin^a,  prerogative  in  regard 
to  any  knowledge  whatever.  And  in  fa^t  this  word  S'udra  can  be 
applied  to  a  person  [of  a  higher  caste]  who  possessed  the  prerogative. 
How  ?  I  explain :  Vexation  (suk]  arose  in  the  mind  of  Janasruti  when 
he  heard  himself  disrespectfully  spoken  of  in  these  words  of  the  swan : 
1  Who  is  this  that  thou  speakest  of  as  if  he  were  Rainka  yoked  to  the 
chariot  ? ' 3  (Chh.  Up.  iv.  1,  3).  And  since  a  S'udra  does  not  possess 
the  prerogative  of  acquiring  knowledge,  we  conclude  that  it  is  to  this 
vexation  (suK]  that  the  rishi  Rainka  referred,  for  the  purpose  of  shew- 
ing his  own  knowledge  of  things  imperceptible  by  sense,  when  he  made 
use  of  this  word  S'udra  (Chh.  Up.  iv.  2,  2,  see  above).  But  again,  how 
is  it  indicated  by  the  word  S'udra  that  vexation  (6uk)  arose  in  his  mind  ? 
We  reply:  by  'the  running  to  it  [or  him]"  (tad-ddravanuf);  i.e.  either 
'he  ran  to  vexation,'  or  '  he  was  assailed  by  vexation,'  or  'in  his  vexa- 
tion he  resorted  to  Rainka.'  We  conclude  thus  because  the  sense 
afforded  by  the  component  parts  of  the  word  S'udra  is  the  probable 

one,4  whilst  the  conventional  sense  of  the  word  S'udra  is  here  inap- 

* 
plicable.     And  this  is  seen  to  be  the  meaning  in  this  story. 

3  This  appears  to  allude  to  the  person  referred  to  being  found  sitting  under  a 
chariot  (Chh.  Up.  iv.  1,  8).   See  p.  67  of  Babu  Eajendralal  Mittra's  translation.    This 
story  is  alluded  to  by  Professor  Weber  in  his  Ind.  Stud,  ixf  45,  note,  where  he  treats 
Sayugvan  as  a  proper  name,  and  remarks  "  Tire  Vrdanta  Sutras  (i.  3,  Sij^So),  indeed, 
try  to  explain  away  this"  (the  circumstance  of  Janas'ruti  being  called  a  S'udra)  and 
of  course  S'ankara  in  his  commentary  on  them  does  the  same,  as  well  in  his  explana- 
tion of  the  Chhandogya  Upanishad."     I  am  not,  however,  by  any  means  certain  that 
the  epithet  "  S'udra,"  applied  to  Janas'ruti  by  Rainka,  is  not  merely  meant  as  a  term 
of  abuse.  f 

4  The  meaning  of  this  is  that  the  word  S'udra  is  derived  from  such,  "vexation," 


APPENDIX.  297 

« 

Sutra  35.  "And  that  Janasruti  was  a  Kshattriya  is  afterwards  indi- 
cated by  what  is  ^aid  of  Abhipratarin  of  the  race  of  Chaitraratha." 

"  That  Janasruti  was  not  a  S'udra  appears  also  from  this,  that  by 
examining  the  context  Jie  is  afterwards  found  to  be  a  Kshattriya  by 
the  sign  that  he  is  mentioned  along  with  Abhipratarin  of  the  family 
of  Chaitraratha^  For  in  *the  sequel  of  the  passage  regarding  the 
knowledge  of  the  Samvarga  mentioS  is  made  in  these  words  of  Abhi- 
prataryi  Chaitrara'^h?,  a  Kshattriya:  'JSTow  a  Brahmacharin  asked 
alms  of  13'aunaka  of  th^e  race  of  Kapi,  and  Abhipratarin  the  son  of 
Kakshasena  who  were  being  servfjl  at  a  meal'  (Chh.  Up.  iv.  3,  5). 
And  that  Abhipratarin  belonged  to  the  family  of  ChaiWaratha  is  to  be 
gathered  from  his  connection  with  the  Kapeyas ;  for  the  connection  of 
Chaitraratha  with  the?  latte^  has  been  ascertained  by  the  text :  '  The 
Kapeyas  performed  sacrifice  for  Chaitraratha."  Priests  of  the  same 
family  in  general  officiate  for  worshippers  belonging  to  the  same  family. 
From  this,  as  well  as  fron?  the  text :  '  From  him  a  lord  of  Kshat- 

and  dru,  "  to  run."  (See  the  First  Volume  of  this  work,  p.  97,  note  192.)  Even  the 
great  S'ankara,  it  seems,  was  unable  to  perceive  the  absurdity  of  such  etymologies. 
In  his  commentary  on  the  Chhandogya  Upanishad  the  same  writer  tells  us  that 
various  explanations  had  been  given  of  the  employment  of  the  word  S'udra  in  this 
passage  :  Nanu  raja  'sau  kshattri-sambandhat  \  "Sa  ha  kshattaram  uvacha"  (iv.  1,  5) 
ity  uktam  \  vidya-grahanaya  cha  brahmana-samlpopagamat  \  sudrasya  cha  anadhi- 
karat  \  katham  idarn  ananurupam  Raikvena  uchyate  "  sudra"  iti  \  tattra  ahur  acha- 
ryyah  \  hamsa-vachana-sravanat  sug  enam  avivesa  \  tena  *asau  sucha  srutva  Raik- 
vasya  mahimanam  va  dravati  iti  \  rishir  atmanah  parokshajnatam  darsayan  "  sudra" 
ity  aha,  \  sudra-vad  badhanena  eva  enam  vidya-grahanaya  upajagama  na  susrushaya\ 
na  tu  jatya  eva  sudrah  iti  \  apare  punar  ahur  alpam  dhanam  ahritam  iti  rusha  eva 
enam  uktavan  "  sudra "  iti  \  "  But  is  not  Janas'ruti  shewn  to  have  been  a  king,  («) 
from  his  name  being  connected  with  a  charioteer  in  the  passage  '  He  said  to  his 
charioteer,'  (4)  from  his  resorting  to  a  Brahman  to  obtain  knowledge,  and  (c)  from  a 
S'udra  possessing  no  such  prerogative  ?  How  then  did  Eaikva  address  to  him  an 
appellation  inconsistent  with  this  in  i!h.e  words  '  o  S'udra  P '  Learned  teachers  reply  : 
'  Vexation  (suk)  took  possession  of  him  on  hearing  the  words  of  the  swan  :  in  con- 
sequence of  which,  or  of  hearing  (srutva)  of  the  greatness  of  Raikva,  he  ran  up 
[S'udra  is  here  derived  either  from  s'ucha  +  dravati,  or  from  srutva  -f  dravati]  ;  and  the 
rishi,  to  shew  his  knowledge  of  things  beyond  the  reach  of  the  senses,  called  him 
S'udra.  He  h3d  approached^  obtain  knowledge  from  the  rishi  by  annoying  him  like  a 
S'udra,  and  not  by  rendering  him  service ;  while  yet  he  was  not  by  birth  a  S'udra. 
Others  again  say  that  the  rishi  angrily  called  him  a  S'iflra  because  he  had  brought 
him  so  little  property."  This  passage  is  also  translated  by  Babu  Eajendralal  (Chh. 
Up.  p.  68,  note),  who  renders  badhanena  (which  I  have  taken  to  mean  "annoying  ") 
by  "  paying  "  for  instruction ;  but  I  cannot  find  any  authority  for  ^his  sense  of  the 
worcu  • 


298  APPENDIX. 

triyas  named  Chaitrarathi  was  descended,'  which  proves  that  his 
family  were  Kshattriyas,  we  may  gather  that  Abhipratarin  belonged 
to  this  class.  And  the  circumstance"  that  Janasruti  is  mentioned  in 
connection  with  the  same  branch  of  knowledge  as  Abhiprptarin,  the 
Kshattriya,  shews  that  the  former  also  was  a  Kshattriya.  For  it  is  in 
general  men  of  the  pame  class  who  are  mentioned  together.  And  from 
the  fact  of  Janasruti  sending  a  charioteer  (Chh.  Up.  iv.  1,  5-7),  and  his 
other  acts  of  sovereignty  also,  we  learn  that  he  was  a  Kshattriya. 
Hence  (we  conclude  that)  a  S'iidra  does  not  -possess  the  prerogative 
of  divine  knowledge.  f- 

Sutra  36.  "From  reference  being  made  to  initiation,  and  from  a 
S'udra  being  declared  to  be  excluded  from  it.iL-. 

"And  that  a  S'udra  does  not  possess  £he  prerogative- of  acquiring 
divine  knowledge,  may  be  further  inferred  from  the  fact  that  investi- 
ture with  the  sacred  cord  and  other  rites  are  referred  to  in  passages 
where  science  is  the  subject  in  question.  'For  the  fact  that  the  seekers 
after  such  knowledge  obtained  initiation,  is  shewn  by  such  passages  as 
the  following :  '  He  invested  him ; '  c  He  came  to  him,  saying,  teach 
me,  Sir'  (Chh.  Tip.  vii.  1,  1  ?) ;  'Devoted  to  Brahma,  resting  in  Brah- 
ma, seeking  after  the  highest  Brahma,  they  approached  the  venerable 
Pippalada  with  firewood  in  their  hands,  (saying)  '  he  will  declare  all 
this'  (Prasna  Tip.  i.  1);  and  'having  invested  them,'  etc.  And  that 
a  S'udra  receives  no  ^initiation  is  shewn  by  the  text  of  the  Smriti 
which  pronounces  him  to  be  but  once-born,  viz.  'the  S'udra  is  the 
fourth  class,  and  once-born ; '  and  by  such  other  passages  as  this : 
'  There  is  no  sin  in  a  S'udra,  and  he  is  not  entitled  to  initiation.' " 5 

Sutra  37.  "  And  because  he  acted  after  ascertaining  that  it  was  not 
a  S'udra  [who  had  come  to  him]."  , 

"That  a  S'udra  does  not  possess  the  prerogative  of  acquiring  know- 
ledge appears  also  from  this  that  [according  to  the  Chhandogya  Upani- 
shad]  Gautama  proceeded  to  invest  and  instruct  Jabala  after  ascertain- 
ing by  his  truth- speaking  that  he  Owas  not  <a  S'udra :  '  None  but  a 
Brahman  could  distinctly  declare'  this :  bring,  o  fair  youth,  a  piece  of 
fuel ;  I  will  invest  thee^  thou^hast  not  departed  from  the  truth  '  (Chh. 
Up^iv.4,  5).« 

This  last  veise  has  been  already  quoted  in  Vol.  I.  p.  138,  note  244. 
*  I  shall  quoce  in  full  the  earlier  part  of  the  passage  from  which  these  words  are 

N 


I  • 

APPENDIX.  299 

• 

.Sutra  38.  "And  because,  according  to  the  Smriti,  a  S'udra  is  for- 
bidden to  near,  Ar  read,  or  learn  flie  senso." 

.  "And  that  a  S'udra  does  not  possess  the  prerogative  of  acquiring 
divine  knowledge,  appe*ars  f^rom  this  that,  according  to  the  Smriti,  he 
is  forbidden  to  hear  it,  or  r,ead  it,  or  learn  its  sense :  i.e.  it  is  declared 
in  the  Smriti  that  he  is  forbidden  either  to  hear  the  Veda,  or  read  the 
Veda,  or  to  learn  j.t  contents,«or  to  p*ractise  its  injunctions.  Hearing  is 
forbidde^n  to  him  in  these  texts :  '  If,  he  listens  to  the  reading  of  the 
Veda,  his  ears  are  to  be  filled  with  [melted}  lead  and  lac ; '  and  '  The 
S'udra  is  a  walking  cemetery ;  thlrefore  no  one  must  read  in  his  vi- 
cinity.' And  consequently  thp  reading  of  it  is  prohibited  to  him  :  for 

i 

taken,  both  for  the  sake  «f  explaining  the  allusion,  and  for  the  illustration  which  it 
affords  of  ancient  Indian  manners':  Chh.  Up.  iv.  4,  1.  Satyakdmo  ha  Jabalo  Jabdldm 
mdtaram  dmantraydnchakre  "brahmacharyyam  bhavati  vivatsydmi  kim~gotro  nv  aham 
asmi"  iti  \  2.  Sd  ha  enam  uvdcha  "  na  aham  etad  veda  fata  yad-gotras  tvam  asi  \  bahv 
aham  charantl  parichdrinl  yam^me  tvam  alabhe  \  sd  'ham  etad  na  veda  yad-gottras 
tvam  asi  \  Jabdld  tu  ndma  aham  asmi  Satyakamo  ndma  tvam  asi  \  sa  SatyaJcdmah  eva 
Jabalo  'bravlthdh"  iti  \  "  Satyakama,  the  son  of  Jabala,  addressed  his  mother  Jabiilfi, 
saying,  '  I  wish,  mother,  to  enter  on  the  life  of  a  religious  student.  To  what  family 
(gottra  :  see  Muller's  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  pp.  378  if.)  do  I  belong  ? '  2.  She  answered, 
'  I  do  not  know,  my  son,  to  what  family  thou  belongest.  Much  consorting  [with 
lovers]  and  roving  (or  serving),  in  my  youth,  I  got  thee.  I  know  not  of  what  family 
thou  art.  But  my  name  is  Jabala,  and  thine  Satyakama.  Say,  '  I  am  Satyakama 
son  of  Jabala.' "  He  accordingly  goes  to  Haridrumata  of  the  race  of  Gotama,  and 
asks  to  be  received  as  a  student.  The  teacher  enquires  to  what  family  he  belongs 
and  the  youth  repeats  verbatim  the  answer  he  had  received  from  his  mother,  and  says 
he  is  Satyakama  the  son  of  Jaba.15..  The  teacher  replies  in  the  words  quoted  by 
S'ankara  "No  one  other  than  a  Brahman  could  distinctly  declare  this,"  etc.  The 
interpretation  of  paragraph  2,  above  given,  seems  to  convey  its  correct  sense.  Jabala 
apparently  means  to  confess  that  her  son  was  nuttius  filius  :  and  that  he  must  be 
content  to  call  himself  her  son,  as  she  did  not  know  who  his  father  was.  The  explan- 
ation of  the  words  bahv  aham  charanfi  parichdrinl  yauvane  tvam  alabhe  given  by  the 
Commentators  and  followed  by  BaVi  Rajendralal  Mittra,  that  she  was  so  much  occu- 
pied with  attending  to  guests  in  her  husband's  house,  and  so  modest  that  she  never 
thought  of  enquiring  about  her  son's  gottra,  and  that  her  husband  died  early,  is  founded 
mainly  on  the  word  paricharim,  and  would  not  account <for  Jabala' s  ignorance  of  her 
husband's  name  (which  she  does  not  mention)  or  even  of  her  husband's  lineage.  In 
regard  to  th$  sense  of  charcyiti  see  the  passage  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahman*,  ii.  5, 
2,  20,  quoted  in  the  First  Volume  oT  this  wwk,  p.  136,  not§  242.  S'ankara  was  either 
ignorant  of  the  laxity  of  ancient  morals,  or  wished  to  throw  a  veil  over  the  spurious 
origin  of  a  sage  like  Satyakama  who  had  attained  divine  knowledge  and  become  a 
teacher  of  it  (see  Chh.  Up.  iv.  1G>,  1).  In  his  preface,  however,  p.  30,  as  I  observe, 
Babu  Rajendralal  speaks  of  Satyakama  as  a  natural  son  in  these  words :  "Although 
a  natural  born  son  whose  father  was  unknown,  and  recognized  b^  the  contemptuous 
soubriquet  of  Jabala  from  the  designation  of  his  mother  Jabala,"  e&. 


300  APPENDIX. 

how  can  he,  in  whose  neighbourhood  even  the  Veda  is  forbidden  to  be 
read,  read  it  himself?  And  if  he  iftters  it,  his  tongue  is  to  be  cut ; 
and  if  he  retains  it  in  his  memory,  his  body  is  to  be  slit.  And  it 
results  from  the  meaning  of  the  terms  that  he  is  prohibited  fr/am  learn- 
ing its  contents,  or  practising  its  injunctions,  according  to  the  texts, 
'  Let  no  one  impart  intelligence  to  a  S'udra ; '  and  '  reeding,  sacrifice, 
and  liberality  are  the  duties  of  twice-born  men.'  As  regards  (/)  Vi- 
dura,  Dharma,  Vyadha,  and  others  in  whom  knowledge  was  produced 
in  consequence  of  their  f recollection  of  acts  performed  in  a  former 
birth,  their  enjoyment  of  its  results  cannot  be  prevented,  from  the 
transcendent  character  of  the  effects  of  knowledge ;  and  because  in  the 
text '  Let  the  four  castes  be  made  to  hear  thfiEi,'  the  Smriti  declares 
that  the  four  castes  possess  the  prerogative  of  learning  the  Itihasas 
and  Puranas  [by  means  of  which  S'udras  may  attain  perfection].  But 
it  has  been  established  that  S'udras  do  not  possess  the  prerogative  of 
acquiring  divine  knowledge  derived  [directly]  from  [the  study  of]  the 
Veda." 

the  Bhagavad  Glta  affirms  a  different  doctrine  in  the  following 
verses,  x.  32  f.,  where  Krishna  says  : 

Mum  hi  Pdrtha  vyapdsritya  ye  'pi  syuh  papa-yonayah  \  striyo  vaisyas 
tathd  sudras  te  'pi  ydnti  pardm  gatim  \  33.  Kim  punar  brdhmandh  pun- 
ydfi  bhalctdh  rdjarshayas  tathd  \ 

"  Those  who  have  faith  in  me,  even  though  they  be  of  base  origin, 
women,  Vaisyas,  and  S'udras,  attain  to  the  most  transcendent  state. 
How  much  more  pure  Brahmans  and  devout  royal  rishis." 

S'ankara  could  scarcely  have  been  ignorant  that  his  principle  was  not 
in  harmony  with  this  text  j  but  he  has  thought  proper  to  ignore  this 
discrepance  of  views,  as  he  probably  shrank  from  directly  contradicting 
a  work  held  in  such  high  estimation. 

See  also  the  account  of  the  views  entertained  on  the  same  subject  by 
S'andilya  which  I  have  stated  above,  p.  178. 

f.      Page  105,  fine  24. 

The  following  quotation  continues  the  discussion  of  this  subject; 
and  will  also  serve  to  illustrate  pp.  6  and  16,  above,  as  well  as  p.  60 
of  the  First  Volume  : 

Brahma  SuCra  i.  3,  30.  (<  Samdna-ndma-rupatvdch  cha  dvrittdv  apy 


APPENDIX.  301 

• 

avi^odho  darsandt  smrites  cha"  '  athdpi  sydt  \  yadi  pasv-ddi-vad  deva- 
vyaktayo  ''pi  santatyd  eva  utpadyeran  nintdhyerams  cha  tato  'bhidhdnd- 
bhidheydbhidhdtri  -  vyavahdrdvichheddt  sambandha  -  nityatvena  virodMh 
sabde  parthriyeta  \  yadd  tu  1chalu  sakalam  trailokyam  parityakta-ndma- 
rupam  nirlepam  praliyate  prabhavati  cha  abhinavam  iti  sruti-smriti-vdddh 
vadanti  tadd  ftatham  avirodhah  iti  ^tattra  idam  tibhidhlyate  "  samdna- 
ndma-riipatvdd  "  iti^\  tadd  'pt  samsdrasya  andditvam  tdvad  abhyupagan- 
tavyam  |  pratipddhyisJiyati  cha,  dchdryyah  samsdrasya  andditvam  "  upa- 
padyatt  cha  apy  upalaokyate  cha"  iti  (Brahma  ^utra  ii.  1,  36)  |  anddau 
cha  samsdre  yathd  svdpa-prabodhayohpralaya-pralhava-sravane  'pi  purva- 
pralodha-vad  uttara-pralodhe  'jpt  vyavahdrdd  na  kaschid  virodhah  \  evam 
kalpdntara-pralhava-jyraVayayor  api  iti  drashtavyam  \  svdpa-prabodhayos 
cha  pralaya-prabJiavau  sruyete  \  "yadd  suptah  svapnam  na  Tcanchana 
pasyaty  atha  asmin  prdnah  eva  ekadhd  bhavati  tadd  enam  vdk  sarvair 
ndmabhih  saha  apyeti  chaktfiuh  sarvaih  rupaih  saha  apyeti  frotram  sar- 
vaih  sabdaih  saha  apyeti  manah  sarvair  dhydnaih  saha  apyeti  \  sa  yadd 
pratibudhyate  yathd  'gner  jvalatah  sarvdh  diso  visphulingdh  vipratish- 
therann  evam  eva  etasmdd  dtmanah  sarve  prdnah  yathdyatanam  vipratish- 
thante  prdnebhyo  devdh  devebhyo  lokdh  (Kaush.  Br.  Utt.  A.  3,  3)  iti  \  sydd 
etat  |  svdpe  purushdntara-vyavahdrdvichheddt  svayam  cha  sushupta-pra- 
buddhasya  purva-prabodha-vyavahdrdnusandhdna-sambhavdd  aviruddham  \ 
mahdpralaye  tu  sarva-vyavahdrochheddj  janmdnfara-vyavahdra-vach  cha 
Tcalpdntara-vyavahdrasya  anusandhdtum  asakyatvdd  vaishamyam  iti  \  na 
esha  doshah  \  saty  api  sarva-vyavahdrochhedini  mahdpralaye  Paramesva- 
rdnugrahdd  isvardndm  Hiranyagarbhddlndm  kalpdntara-vyavahdrdnu- 
sandhdnopapatteh  \  yadyapi  prdkritdh  prdnino  na  janmdntara-vyava- 
hdram  anusandhdndh  drisyante  iti  na  tat  prdkrita-vad  Isvardndm  bhavi- 
tavyam  \  yathd  hi  prdnitvdrisesJie  'pi  manushyddi-stamba-paryyanteshu 
jndnaisvaryyddi-pratibandhah  parena  parena  bhuydn  bhavan  drisyate 
tathd  manushyddishv  eva  Hiranyagarbha-parymteshu  jndnaisvaryyddy- 
abhivyalctir  api  parena  parena  bhuyasl  bhavati  ity  etat  sruti-smriti- 
vddeshv  asalcrid  eva  anukalpd<sl,au'>prdflurbhavatdm  pdramaisvaryyam  &ru- 
yamdnam  na  sakyaih  ndsti  iti  vaditum  \^  tatas  fha  atlta  -  kalpdnushthita- 
prakrishta-jndna-karmandm  Isvardndm  Hiranyagarbhddlndm  varttamdna- 
kalpddau  prddurbhavatdm  Paramesvardnugrihitdndm  supta-pratibuddha- 
vai  kalpdntara-vyavahdrdnusandhdnopapattih  \  tathd\ha  srutir  t(yo 
Brahmdnam  vidadhdti  purvam  yo  vai  vedam*  sha  prahinoti  tasmg,i  \  tarn 


302  APPENDIX. 

ha  devam  dtma-buddhi-prakdsam  mumukshur  vai  saranam  aham  prapadyt" 
(S'vetasvatara  Upanishad,  via  18)  iti  \  smaranti  cha  Saunakddayo  Mia- 
dJwchhandah-prabhritibhir  ddsatathyo  drishtdh  iti  \  prativedam  cha  evam 
eva  kdndarshy  -  ddayah  smaryyante  \  Srutif  apy  rishi-jndna-purvakam 
eva  mantrena  anushthdnam  darsayati  "  yo  ha  vai  aviditdrsheya-chhando- . 
daivata-lrdhmanena  nantrena  ydjayati  vd  adhydpayati  b(l  sthdnum  cha, 
richhati  garttam  vd  prapadyate"  ity  upakramya  "  tasmdd  etdni  mantre 
vidydd"  iti  \  prdnindm  cha  sulcha-prdptaye  dhar-mwidhlyate  duhkha- 
parihdrdya  adharmah  pra&ishidhyate  \  drishtdntisravika-duhkha-sukha- 
vishayau  cha  rdga-dveshau  bhavato  nk  vilakshana-vishaydv  ity  ato  dhar- 
mddharma-phala-lhutottarottard  srishtir  *iishpadyamdnd  purva-srishti- 
sadrisy  eva  nishpadyate  \  smritis  cha  bhavati  "*toskdm  ye  ydni  karmdni 
prdk-srisht ydm  pratipedire  \  tdny  eva  te  prapadyante  srijyamdndh  punah 
punah  |  hirnsrdhimsre  mridu-krure  dharmddharmdv  ritdnrite  \  tad-bhd- 
vitdh prapadyante  tasmdt  tat  tasya  radiate"  \  iti  \  prallyamdnam  api  cha 
idamjagat  sakty-avasesham  eva  pr  ally  ate  sakti-mulam  eva  cha  pralhavati 
itarathd  dkasmikatva-prasangdt  \  na  cha  anekdkdrdh  saktayah  sakydh 
kalpayitum  \  tatas  cha  vichhidya  vichhidya  apy  udbhavatdm  bhur-ddi- 
loka-pravuhdndrn  deva  -  tiryan  -  manushya  -  lakshandndm  cha  prdni-ni- 
kdya-pravdhdndm  varndsrama-dharma-phala-vyavasthdndm  cha  anddau 
samsdre  niyatatvam  indraya-vishaya-sambandha-niyatatva-vat  pratyeta- 
vyam  \  na  hi  indriya-visliaya-sambandhdder  vyavahdrasya  prati  sargam 
anyathdtvaih  shashthendriya-vishaya-kalpam  sakyam  utprekshitum  \  atas 
cha  sarva-kalpdndiii  tulya-vyavahdratvdt  kalpdntara-vyavahdrdmisan- 
dhuna-kshamatvdch  cha  Isvardndm  samdna-ndma-rupdh  eva  pratisargam 
viseshdh  prddurlhavanti  samdna-ndma-rupatvdch  cha  dvrittdv  api  maha- 
sarga-mahdpralaya-lakshandydm  jagato  'bhyupagamyamdndydm  na  kas- 
chich  chhabda-prdmdnyddi-virodhah  \  san¥lna-ndma-rupatdm  cha-sruti- 
smritl  darsayatah  "  suryd-chandramasau  dhdtd  yathd-purvam  akalpayat  \ 
divam  cha  prithivlm  chdntarlksham  atho  svah  "  |  iti  \  yathd  purvasmin 
kalpe  suryd-chandramah-prabhriti  jagat  klriptam  tathd  'sminn  api  kalpe 
Paramesvaro  'kalpayad  ity  arthah  \  tafhd  J;( Agnir  vai  akdmcyata  f  an- 
nddo  devdndm  sydm  '  iti  sa  evam  agnaye  krittikdbhyah  puroddsam  ashta- 
kapdlam  niravapad"  iti  ndkshattreshti-vidhau  yo  'gnir  niravapad  yasmai 
vd  'gnaye  niravapat  tayoh*  samdna-ndma-rupatdm  darsayati  ity-evam- 
jdtlyakd  srutir  fiddharttavyd  \  smritir  api  "  rishlndm  ndmadheydni  yds 
cha  vedeshu  dr&htayah  \  sarvaryy-ante  prasutdndm  tdny  evaibhyo  daddty 


t  » 

APPENDIX.  303 

ajaji  |  yathartdv  ritu-lingdni  ndnd-rupdni  paryyaye  \  drisyante  tdni  tdny 
eva  tathd  Ihdvdh  J/uffddishu  \  yathd'bhimdwno'titdstulyds  te  sdmpratair 
iha  |  devdh  devair  atltair  hi  rupair  ndmabhir  eva  cha  "  ity  evam-jatlyakk 
drashtavyS,  \  \ 

.  "Brahma  Sutra,  i.  3,  30.,' And  though  there  be  a  recurrence  of  crea- 
tion, yet  as  (tlfb  new  creation)  has^the  same  name  and  form7  (as  the 
old)  there  will  be  no  contradiction  in  regard  to  the  words  of  the  Veda ; 
since  this  is  proved  both  by  the  intuition  of  rishis  and  by  the  Smriti.' 
And  further,  let  it  be"  so  that  if  a  series  of  individual  gods,  as  of 
animals,  etc.,  is  born  and  disappears  in  unbroken  continuity,  the  al- 
leged contradiction  in  regard  Jo  the  words  of  the  Veda  (viz.  that  as 
they  are  connected  witir*  objects  which  are  not  eternal,  they  cannot 
themselves  be. eternal)  will  be  removed  by  the  perpetuity  of  connection 
arising  from  the  continuity  of  practice  regarding  the  designation  of 
things,  the  things  to  be  designated,  and  the  designator.  But  when,  as 
texts  of  the  S'ruti  and  Smriti  inform  us,  the  entire  three  worlds,  losing 
name  and  form,8  are  utterly  annihilated  and  afterwards  produced  anew, 
how  can  the  contradiction  be  'avoided  ?  [The  meaning  of  this  is :  How 
can  there  be  an  eternal  connection  between  the  words  of  the  Veda  and 
objects  which  how  long  soever  they  may  have  existed,  must  yet  have 
come  into  being  at  the  new  creation  following  after  the  total  (not 
merely  the  partial)  destruction  of  the  universe  ?  and  if  such  a  connection 
does  not  exist,  how  can  the  words  of  the  Veda  be  eternal,  when  before 
this  new  creation  they  represented  nothing  existent?  see  above,  p. 
102.]  A  reply  to  this  is  given  in  the  words,  'Yet  as  (the  new 
creation)  ha"s  the  same  name  and  form  as  the  old,'  etc.  Even  then 
the  world  must  be  admitted  to  have  been  without  a  beginning.  This 
eternity  of  the  world  will  be  declared  by  our  teacher  in  the  words  (of 

7  Professor  Goldstiicker  is  of  opinion  that  here,  as  elsewhere,  these  words  (nama- 
rupa)  should  be  rendered  "  substance  and  form."    See  thettote  on  the  subject  furnished 
by  him  in  M.  Burnouf's  Introduction  a  1'histoire  du  Buddhisme  Indien,  p.  502. 

8  Govind?»Ananda  remarks  on  the  Si^tra  before  us,  and  S'ankara's  comment :  "Nanu 
maha-pralayejater  apy  asattvat  sabdartha-sHmbandhanityafvam  ity  asankya  aha"sa- 
mana"  iti  \  sutramnirasya  asankamaha  "athapj"  id  |  'gyakti-santatyajatlnamavan- 
tara-pralaye  sativat  sambandhas  tishthati  vyavaharamchhedaj  jnayeta  cha  iti  vedasya 
anapelcshntvena  pramanye  na  kasthid  virodhah  syat  \  liirlepa-pralaye  tu  sambandha- 
nasat  punah  srishtau  Jcenachit  pumsa  sanketah  Ttarttavyah  iti  pwaisha-buddhi-sape- 
kshntvena  vedasya  apramanyam  adhyapakasya  asrayasya  nasad  asiitasya  anityatvath 
cha  praptam  ity  arthah  \  mahapralaye  'pi  nirlepa-layp  \siddhffh  sat-karyya-vaddt  \ 


304  APPENDIX. 

Brahma  Sutra,  ii.  1,  36),  'It  is  agreeable  to  reason,  and  it  is  ascertained.' 
And  the  world  being  eternal^  although  the  Veda  declares  that  its  disso- 
lution and  reproduction  take  place  during  the  sleep,  and  at  the  waking 
(of  the  creator),  still  as  the  practice  continues  the  same  in  the  later,  as 
in  the  previous,  waking  condition,  there  is  no  contradiction  (of  the  sort 
pretended).  And  itois  to  be  considered  that  the  same  must  be  the  case 
in  regard  to  the  dissolutions  and  creations  of  another.  Kalpa  (see  Yol.  I. 
p.  43  f.).  Now  dissolutions  and  .creations  are  said  m  the  Yeda  to  take 
place  during  (the  creator's)  sleep,  and  at  his'  waking.  '  When  the 
sleeper  does  not  see  any  vision,  and  when  his  breath  is  concentrated 
in  him,  then  the  voice  with  all  names^enters  into  him,  the  eye  with 
all  forms  enters  into  him,  the  ear  with  all  'sounds  enters  into  him, 
the  mind  with  all  thoughts  enters  into  hkn.  When  he  wakes,  just  as 
sparks  shoot  out  in  all  directions  from  blazing  fire,  so  do  all  breaths 
according  to  their  several  seats  issue  from  this  Soul ;  from  the  breaths 
spring  deities;  and  from  the  deities  worlds'  (Kaushitaki  Brahmana, 
latter  part,  3,  3).  But  be  it  so,  that  [in  the  circumstances  referred 
to]  there  is  no  contradiction  of  the  kind  alleged,  because  during  the 

tatha  cha  samskaratmana  sabdartha-tat-sambandhanam  satam  eva  punah  srishtav 
abhivyakter  na  anityatvam  \  abhivyaktanaih  purva-kalpiya-nama-rupa-samanatvad 
na  sanketah  kenachit  karyyah  \  vishama-sruhtau  hi  sanketapeksha  na  tulya~srishtav 
iti  pariharati"  tattra  idam"  ity-adina  \  "  But  since  in  a  great  dissolution  even  species 
cease  to  exist,  will  it  not  result  that  the  connection  of  words  with  the  objects  they 
denote  is  not  eternal?  In  reference  to  this  douht  the  aphorist  says,  '  as  the  name  and 
form  are  the  same,'  etc.  "Waving  the  authority  of  the  Sutra,  the  Commentator  ex- 
presses a  doubt  in  the  words  '  And  further,'  etc.  It  is  true  that  the  connection  sub- 
sists in  consequence  of  the  continuity  of  individuals  owing  to  the  existence  of  species 
during  the  intermediate  dissolutions,  and  this  connection  will  be  known  because  the 
previous  practice  continues  uninterrupted.  And  so  from  the  independence  of  the 
Veda,  there  will  be  no  contradiction  in  regard  to  its  authority.  But  since  in  a  total 
dissolution  all  such  connection  is  lost,  and  some  intimation  (of  what  had  existed  before) 
must  be  given  by  some  person  at  the  new  creation,  the  Veda  will  be  dependent  on 
the  understanding  of  such  person,  and  consequently  its  unauthoritativeness,  as 
well  as  the  non-eternity  of  the  dependent  object,  owing  to  the  extinction  of  the  in- 
structor on  whom  it  depended,  will  result.  But  even  in  a  great  dissolution  an  absolute 
annihilation  is  unproved,  according  to  the  doctrine  that,  effects  exist  in, their  causes. 
And  so,  as  words,  the  objects  which  they  denote,  and  the  connection  between  both, 
(all  of  which  things  previously  existed),  are  manifested  at  the  new  creation  as  re- 
miniscences of  a  previous  exis'tence,  they  are  not  non-eternal.  As  the  objects  thus 
manifested  have  the  same  na.nes  and  forms  as  in  the  previous  Kalpa,  there  is  no 
necessity  for  any  intimation  (of  what  Lad  existed  before)  being  given  by  any  person. 
For  such  an  intimation  would,  indeed,  be  required  in  a  dissimilar  creation,  but  not 
in  one  which  is  similar  f  It  ,js  thus  that  the  commentator  removes  the  objection  in 
the  words  '  a  reply  to  this  is  given,'  etc." 


J  / 

APPENDIX.  305 

sleep  (of  one  person)  the  practice  of  others  continues  uninterruptedly, 
and*  even  the  person  who  has  been  in  a » deep  sleep  can  ascertain  the 
action  which  took  place  in  his  former  waking  state.  *  But  this  is  i>i- 
applicabl*  to  a  great  3isso]ution,  because  then  there  is   an  absolute 
^  annihilation  of  all  practice^  and  because  the  practice  which  prevailed  in 
another  Kalpa,*  like  that  of  another  birth,  cannot  he  ascertained.     This 
objection,  however,  does  not  hold ;  for  although  all  practice  is  annihi- 
lated by  a  great  dissolution,  still  it  is,  proved  that  through  the  favour 
of  the   supreme   Lord,1  the  lords  Hiranyagavbha  (Brahma),  etc.,  can 
ascertain  the  practice  of  the   preceding  Kalpa.     Although  ordinary 
creatures  are  not  observed  to?  evince  the  power  of  discovering  the 
practice  of  a  former  tyyth,  the  limitation  which  is  true  of  them  will 
not  attach  to  ^he  great  lords  »in  question.     For  just  as  in  the  series  of 
beings  commencing  with  men,  and  ending  with  posts,  although  all  the 
creatures  included  in  it  without  distinction  possess  the  attribute  of  life, 
yet,  as  we  descend  the  scale,  the  obstructions  to  knowledge  and  to  power 
are  perceived  to  go  on  gradually  increasing ;  so  too,  in  the  series  be- 
ginning with  men  and  culminating  in  Hiranyagarbha,  there  is  an  ever 
greater  and^greater  manifestation  of  knowledge  and  of  power,  etc. ;  and 
thus  the  transcendent  faculties  which  are  declared  in  texts  of  the  S'ruti 
and  Smriti  to  belong  to  the  beings  who  again  and  again  come  into  existence 
at  the  beginning  of  the  successive  Kalpas  cannot  be  denied  to  be  real. 
And  consequently  it  is  established  that  the  lords  Hiranyagarbha  and 
others  who  during  the  past  Kalpa  had  manifested  distinguished  know- 
ledge and  powers  of  action,  and  who  again  came  into  existence  at  the 
beginning  of  the  present  Kalpa,  and  enjoyed  the  favour  of  the  supreme 
Lord,  were  able,  like  a  person  who  has  been  asleep  and  awakes  again, 
to  ascertain  the  practice  of  tiie  previous  Kalpa.      And  accordingly 
the   S'ruti  says :    '  Seeking  final  liberation,   I  take  refuge  with  that 
God,  shining  by  the  light  of  his  own  intellect, .who  in  the  beginning 
creates  Brahma  and  reveals  to  him  the  Vedas'  (S'vetasv.  Upan.  vi.  18). 
And  S'aunaka  and  other^record  in-»their  Smritis  that  the  hymns  in  Ihe 
ten  Mandalas  of  the  Eig-veda  were  seen  by  Madhuchhandas  and  other 
rishis.     In  the  same  way  the  Kandarshis,  etc*.,  of  each  of  the  Vedas 
are  specified  in  the  Smritis.    The  S'ruti,  too,  in  the  passage  commenc- 
ing '  Any  priest  who  in  sacrificing  for  another  person,  or^i  teaching  a 
pupil,  employs  a  text  of  which  he  does  not  know,the  rjshi,  metre,  deity, 

»          20 


306  APPENDIX. 

and  proper  application,  is  turned  into  a  post,  or  falls  into  a  pit,'  and  end- 
ing, 'Wherefore  let  him  ascertain  all  these  points  regarding  every  text; ' 
-Declares  that  a  knowledge  of  the  rishi  by  whom  it  was  seen  should 
precede  the  ceremonial  use  of  every  text.fr  Further,  righteousness  is 
prescribed  and  unrighteousness  is  forbidden,  with  a  view  to  promote  the 
happiness  and  obviat'6  the  misery  of  living  beings :  and  love  and  dislike 
have  for  their  objects  nothing  but  the  happiness  and^misery  which  are 
perceptible  by  sense  or  are  scripturally  revealed.  'Consequently  each 
succeeding  creation  which  is  effected,  forming, '  as  it  does,  the, recom- 
pense of  righteousness  and  unrighteousness,  is  constituted  perfectly 
similar  to  each  of  those  which  preceded^  it.  And  the  Smriti,  too,  de- 
clares :  '  These  creatures,  as  they  are  reproduced  time  after  time,  per- 
form, respectively,  the  very  same  actions  as  they  had  performed  in  the 
previous  creation.10  They  so  act  under  the  influence  of  (their  previous 
tendencies)  whether  noxious  or  innoxious,  mild  or  cruel,  righteous  or 
unrighteous,  to  truth  or  to  falsehood;  and  it  is  from  this  cause  that 
they  are  disposed  to  one  or  another  course  of  conduct.'  Besides,  even 
when  this  world  is  destroyed,  a  residuum  of  its  force  (saldi]  continues, 
and  it  is  reproduced  only  because  it  has  this  force  for  its»  basis  :  for 
any  other  supposition  would  involve  the  difficulty  of  the  world  having 
no  cause.  And  as  we  cannot  conceive  that  there  are  many  forms  of 
force  (saJcti\  we  must  believe  that,  as  the  relations  between  the  senses 
and  their  objects  are  invariable,  so  too,  in  a  world  which  had  no  com- 
mencement, the  successions  of  earths  and  other  worlds,  and  of  different 
classes  of  living  beings  distinguished  as  gods,  animals,  and  men,  (al- 
though separated  from  each  other  in  the  period  of  their  production,)  as 
well  as  the  ordinations  of  castes,  orders,  duties,  and  recompences  are 
invariable.  For  we  cannot  imagine  that  such  conditions  as  the  re- 

9  The  object  of  these  remarks  of  S'ankara  regarding  the  rishis  is  thus  explained 
by  Govinda  Ananda  :  Kincfya  mantranam  rishy-adi-jnanavasyaJcatva-jnapika  srutir 
mantra-drig-rish~inamjnanalisayamdarsayati  ity  aha  |  .  .  .  .  tatha  cha  jnanadhikaih 
kalpfintaritam  vedam  smritva  vyavaharasya  pravarttitatiiid  vedasyaanaditvamanape- 
kshatvam  cha  aviruddham  iti  bhavah  \  "In  the'»e  words 'S'ankara  intimates  that  the 
S'ruti  which  declares  the  necessity  of  knowing  the  rishis,  etc.,  thereby  manifests 

the  transcendent  knowledge  o'i  the  rishis  who  saw  the  mantras And  so  from 

the  fact  that  these  rishis,  distinguished  by  eminent  knowledge,  recollected  the  Veda 
which  had  existed  in  a  different  Kalpa,  and  [again]  gave  currency  to  the  [ancient] 
practice  [of  its  £.-ecepts],  it  is  shewn  that  the  eternity  and  independence  of  the  Veda 
is  not  in  contradiction  [to  any  fact] — such  is  the  purport." 

10  See  the  First  Volume  of  this  work,  p.  60.  ^ 


APPENDIX.  307 

between  the  senses  and  their  objects,  etc.,  should  vary  in  every 
creation,  in  such  a  way,  for  example,  as  t*hat  there  shpuld  exist  objects 
Ibr  a  sixth  sense.  Hence,  as  all  Kalpas  exist  under  the  same  conditions, 
and  as  the  lords  (Hiranyagar*bha,  etc.)  are  able  to  ascertain  the  conditions 
•  which  existed  in  another  *Kalpa,  varieties  (of  beings)  having  the  same 
name  and  form  are  produced  in  ever^creation;  and  in  consequence  of  this 
sameness  of  namerand  form,  even  though  a  revolution  of  the  world  in  the 
form  of.  a  great  creatfbn  and  a  great  dissolution  is  admitted,  no  contra- 
diction«arises  affecting  the  authority  of  the  words  of  the  Veda,  etc.  Both 
S'ruti  and  Smriti  shew  us  this  sameness  of  name  and  fcmn.  Here  such 
( texts  of  the  S'ruti  as  these  ma/  be  adduced  :  '  The  creator  formed  as  be- 
fore the  sun  and  mootf,  'tne  sky  and  the  earth,  the  air  and  the  heaven.' 
This  means  tnat  in  this  Kalpa  the  supreme  Lord  fashioned  the  sun,  the 
moon,  and  the  rest  of  the  world  in  the  same  way  as  they  had  been 
fashioned  in  the  former  Kfipa.'  Again :  Agni  desired,  '  May  I  be  the 
food-eater  of  the  gods."  He  offered  to  Agni  [as  the  deity  presiding  over] 
the  Krittikas11  (the  Pleiades)  a  cake  in  eight  platters/  In  this  passage 
the  S'ruti  shews  that  the  two  Agnis,  he  who  in  the  ceremony  of  sacri- 
fice to  the*constellation  offered  the  oblation,  and  he  to  whom  it  was 
offered,  had  the  same  name  and  form.  And  such  Smritis,  too,  as  the 
following  should  be  examined :  '  The  Unborn  Being  gives  to  those  born 
at  the  end  of  the  night  (i.e.  of  the  dissolution  12)tthe  names  of  the  rishis 
and  their  intuitions  into  the  Yedas.13  Just  as  on  the  recurrence  of  each 
of  the  seasons  of  the  year  its  various  characteristics  are  perceived  to  be 
the  very  same  (as  they  had  been  before),  so  too  are  the  things  produced 
at  the  beginning  of  the  yugas  ; u  and  the  past  gods  presiding  over  dif- 
ferent objects  resemble  those  who  exist  at  present,  and  the  present 
(resemble  the)  past  in  their  names  and  forms.'  >: 

I  shall  quote  a  part  of  S'ankara's  remarks  on  the  Brahma  Sutra, 
ii.  1,  36,  referred  to  in  the  earlier  part  of  the  preceding  quotation,  in 
which  the  eternity  of  the  world  is  affirmed  : 

»     ?     , 

II  Erittika-naltshattrabhimani-devaya  Agnaye  —  Govinda  Ananda. 
12  S'arvaryy-ante pralayante — Govinda  Ananfla.       •* 

_  ls  The  sense  of  the  last  words,  which  I  translate  literally,  is  not  very  clear.  Govinda 
Ananda  says  that  in  the  word  vedeshu  the  locative  case  denotes  the  object  (vedeshv  iti 
vishaya-saptamT).  Compare  the  passages  quoted  above  in  p.  16  fi$*n  the  Vishnu  P. 
and TM.  Bh.  which  partially  correspond  with  this  verse.  » 

,     "  Already  quoted  from  the  Vishuu  P.  in  the  First  Volume 'of  this  work,  p»60. 


308  APPENDIX. 

ii.  1,  36.  "  Upapadyate  cha  upalalhyate  cha"  \  "  upapadyate  chy. " 
samsarasya  anddityam  \  ddim^ttve  hi  samsdrasya  alcasm'dd  udbhuter  muk- 
tbsidm  api  punah  samsdrodlhuti-prasangah  \  akritdbhydgama-prasangqs 
cha  sukha-duhkhddi-vaishamyasya  nirnimitt^tvdt  \  na  cha  Isvaro  vaisha- 
mya-hetur  iiy  uktam  \  na  cha  avidyd  kevald  jvaishamyasya  kdranam  eka- . 
rupatvdt  \  rdgddi-kleta-vdsandkshipfai-lcarmdpekshd  tv  avidyd  vaishamya- 
karl  sydt  \  na  cha  karma  antarena  sarlram  sambhavaii  na  cha  sariram 
antarena  karma  sambhavati  iti  itaretardsraya-doshi-pfasangah  \  andditve 
tu  vljdnkura-nydyena  uqoapatter  na  kaschid  dosho  bhavati  \ 

"  '  It  is  agreeable  to  reason,  and  it  is  ascertained.'  The  eternity  of 
the  world  is  agreeable  to  reason.  For  ^n  the  supposition  that  it  had 
a  beginning,  as  it  came  into  existence  withoat  a  cause,  the  difficulty 
would  arise  (1)  that  those  who  had  obtained  liberation  from  mundane 
existence  might  become  again  involved  in  it ; 15  and  (2)  that  men  would 
enjoy  or  suifer  the  recompense  of  what  they  had  never  done,  as  the 
inequalities  occasioned  by  happiness  and  misery,  etc.,  would  be  cause- 
less. But  God  is  not  the  cause  of  this  inequality,  as  we  have  said 
(see  the  comment  on  Sutra  ii.  1,  34).  Nor  can  ignorance  alone  be  its 
cause,  since  ignorance  is  uniform  (whilst  conditions  are  varied).  But 
ignorance,  when  connected  with  works  induced  by  the  surviving  me- 
mory of  desire  and  other  sources  of  disquiet,  may  be  the  cause  of  in- 
equality. Further,  qorporeal  existence  does  not  originate  without 
works,  nor  works  without  bodily  existence :  so  that  (this  hypothesis 
of  the  world  having  had  a  beginning)  involves  the  fallacy  of  making 
each  of  two  things  depend  upon  the  other.  But  on  the  supposition 
that  the  world  had  no  beginning,  there  is  no  difficulty,  as  the  two 
things  in  question  may  be  conceived  to  have  succeeded  each  other  like 
seed  and  sprout  from  all  eternity."  (See  Ballantyne's  Aphorisms  of 
the  Sankhya,  Book  i.  pp.  60  and  126.) 

Page  111,  line  2  from  the  foot ;  and  Page  113,  line  11. 

In  the  first  edition,  p.  78,  I  had  \,ranolatedr  the  word  sa/nayddhyu- 
shite  "  in  the  morning  twilight."  When  revising  the  translation  for 

the  new  edition  I  became  uncertain  about  the  sense,  and  did  not  advert 

<j  i 

15  i.e.  as  Profytor  Cowell  suggests,  if  there  is  no  cause  for  the  production  of  the 
world,  it  comes  into  existence  at  hap-hazard,  and  by  some  chance  the  liberated  raay 
be  bornragain  as  well  a?  the  vnliberated. 


J 

APPENDIX.  309 

• 

to  the  fact  that  the  term  is  explained  in  Professor  Wilson's  Dictionary 
as  denoting  "  a*  time  at  which  neither^  stars  nor  sun  are  visible.'' 
Professor  Cowell  has  since  pointed  out  that  the  wor*d  occurs  in  tj^e 
second  of»  the  following*  verces  of  Manu,  where  a  rule  is  given  for  the 
.interpretation  of  the  Veda  in  cases  such  as  that  referred  to  by  the  com- 
mentator on  tbe  Nyaya  Sutras:  ii.  14 :  S'ruti-dvvidhani  tu  yattra  sydt 
tattra  dharmdv  ulhau  smritau*\  ubhab  api  hi  tau  dharmau  samyag  uktau 
manuhibhih  \  15.  U<L\ie  'nudite  chaivatsamayddhyushite  tathd  \  sarvathd 
varttate  yajnah  itiyam^vaidikl  srutih  \  "  14.  In  cases  where  there  is  a 
twofold  Vedic  prescription,  both  the1  rites  are  declared  in  the  Smriti  to 
be  binding ;  since  they  havebe,e,n  distinctly  pronounced  by  sages  to  be  of 
'equal  authority.  15.  Tha  Vedic  rule  is  that  sacrifice  may  be  performed 
in  all  the  thre(e  ways  ['indicated  in  a  particular  text],  viz.  when  the  sun 
has  risen,  when  it  has  not  risen,  and  when  neither  stars  nor  sun  appear, 
i.e.  in  the  morning  twilight."  Kulluka  says :  Surya-naJcshatra-varji- 
tah  Icdlah  samayddhyushita-sabdena  uchyate  \  "  a  time  devoid  of  sun  and 
stars  is  denoted  by  the  word  samayddhyushita. 

Page  142,  lines  14  and  16. 

The  firstf  of  these  quotations  is  from  the  Brihad  Aranyaka  TJpanishad, 
i.  4,  10;  and  the  second  from  the  Chhandogya  Upanishad,  viii.  7,  2. 

Page  149,  line  6. 

•»          '    • 
For  saldudlkshiter  read  sabddd  ikshiter. 

Page  154,  note  140. 

Professor  Cowell  observes  on  the  close  of  this  note  that  the  Sankhya 
opponent  maintains  that  the  metaphor  is  in  every  case  a  real  one. 

Page  157,  line  18. 

Professor  Cowell  remarks  that  the  meaning  of  the  phrase  salda-pra- 
mdnake  'rthe  is  not  correctly  rendered  by  the  translation  here  given,  viz. 
"  where  the  (proper  sense)  is  established  by  the  words."  The  author 
is  laying  d«wn  the  genaral  rule  that  in  cases  where  there  is  nothing  in 
the  purport  of  any  passage  in  which  a  particular  word  occurs  to  lead 
the  reader  to  suppose  that  it  is  figuratively  used,  and  where  conse- 
quently the  word  itself  is  the  only  index  Jo  the  sense,  it  must  be 
understood  in  its  primary  signification.  'The  proper  rending,  therefore, 

is :  "  "Where  the  sense  can  only  be  determined  by  the  woiM  itself." 

*  ,•»•'»  i 


310  APPENDIX. 

Page  160,  line  18. 

For  punar-utppttir  read  punar-anutpcttir. 

^ 

Page  181,  fo'wes  7  and  II  fgom  the  foot.  „ 

I  learn  from  Professors  Cowell  and  Goldstiicker  that  vimatd  smritih 
should  be  rendered  jnot  "the  variously  understood  Smuti "  but  "the 
Smriti  which  is  here  the  subject  of  dispute." 

Page  183,  note  160,  line  l.~    " 
With  R.V.  i.  179,  2,  cdmpare  R.V.  vii.  76,  4,  quoted  in  p.  2 15. 

Page  201,  line  21. 

The  commentator  thus  explains  this  verse  of  the  Yishnu  Purana 
(I  am  indebted  to  Dr.  Hall  for  a  collation  of  the  best  MSS.  in  the 
India  Office  Library):  Ete  cha  dvesJiopasama-prakdrdh  madhyamddhi- 
kdrindm  eva  uktdh  na  tu  uttamddhikdrindm  ity  aha  "ete"  \  "  bhinna- 
drisd"  Iheda-drishtyd  \  "  bhinna-drisdm  "  iii  vd  pdthah  \  tattra  IJiinna- 
darsane  "  alhyupagamam  "  angllcdram  kritvd  dveshopasamopdya-lheddh 
Icathitdh  \  uktdndm  updydndm  paramdrtha-sankshepo  mama  mattah  sruya- 
tdm  |  "In  the  words  'these  notions,'  etc.'  he  tells  us  that  the  methods 
of  repressing  hatred  which  have  been  hitherto  declared  are  those  which 
are  followed  by  the  persons  who  have  attained  only  to  the  secondary,  not 
to  the  highest,  stage  of  knowledge.  Bhinna-drisd  is  the  same  as  Iheda- 
drishtyd,  l  with  *a  vie'vr  which  distinguishes  [the  Deity  from  them- 
selves],' or  the  reading  is  Ihinna-drisdm,  'of  persons  who  look  [on 
Him]  as  distinct.'  '  Accepting '  (abJiyupagamam  kritvd\  i.e.  admitting, 
this  opinion  regarding  a  distinctness,  'I  (the  speaker  in  the  V.P.)  have 
declared  these  methods  of  repressing  hatred.  Now  hear  from  me  a 
summary '  of  the  highest  truth  in  regard  to  these  methods." 

Page  225,  line  21. 

There  is  a  verse  in  ,the  Yajasaneyi  Samhita,  xiii.  45,  in  which  also 
Agni  is  connected  with  the  creation :  To  Agnir  Agner  adhi  ajdyata 
sokdt  prithivydh  uta  vd  divas  pari  J  yeria  ^ajdh^isvakarmd^'ajdna  tarn 
Agne  hedah  pari  te  vrinaktu  \  "Agni,  may  thy  wrath  avoid  that  Agni 
who  sprang  from  Agni,  from  the  flame  of  the  earth  or  from  that  of  the 
sky,  by  whom  Yisvakarman  generated  living  creatures."  This  verse  is 
quoted  and  afo:  its  fashion  explained  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  jVii. 
5,  2,  2^1 :  Atha  dakqhinafo^jam  \  "  Yo  Agnir  Agner  adhi  ajdyata  "  ity 


APPENDIX?  311 

i 

Agnir  vai  esha  \  Agner  adhyajdyata  \  "  sokdt  prithivydh  uta  vd  divas 
pcfiri  "  iti  yad  vzi  Prajdpateh  sokdd  ajdyafa  tad  divas  cha  prithivyai  cha 
sokdd  ajdyata  \  "Yena  prajdh  Visvakarmd  jajdna"  iti  vug  vai  ajo  vdcho 
vai  prajyh  VisvakarmCj  Jaffna  ityddi  \  "  Then  [he  places]  a  goat  (of a) 
on  the  southern  side,  (saying) :  '  That  Agni  who  sprang  from  Agni : » 
this  goat  is  .Agni  and  sprang  from  Agni.  '  From  the  flame  of  the  earth 
or  from  that  of  the  sky : '  jthat'  wViich  sprang  from  the  flame  of  Pra- 
japati  sprang  from,  the  flame  of  the  earth  and  of  the  sky.  '  By  whom 
Visvak'arman  generated  living  creatures : '  The  goat,  [or  the  Unborn], 
is  Vach  (Speech) :  VisVakarman  generated  living  creatures  from  Vach," 
etc.  Compare  R.V.  i.  67,  5,  quoted  above  in  p.  275.  ' 

;.  • %      Page  235,  line  9. 

Add  after  this  the  following  texts,  in  which  the  verbs  taksh  and  jan 
are  applied  to  the  composition  of  the  hymns : 

E.V.  i.  67,  4.  Vindantfam  attra  naro  dhiyam-dhdh  hridd  yat  tashtdn 
mantrdn  asamsan  \  "  Meditative  men  find  him  (Agni)  here,  when  they 
have  uttered  hymns  of  praise  fashioned  by  the  heart." 

i.  109,  1.  Vi  hy  akhyam  manasd  vasyah  ichhann  Indrdgrii  jndsah  uta 
vd  sajdtdn  \  ndnyd  yuvat  pramatir  asti  mahyam  sa  vdm  dhiyam  vdja- 
yanfim  ataksham  \  2.  Asravam  he  Ihuri-ddvattard  vdm  vijdmatur  uta  vd 
sydldt  \  atha  somasya  prayatl  yuvabhydm  Indrdgrii  stomam  janaydmi 
navy  am  \  "1.  Seeking  that  which  is  desirable,  I  beheld  [in  you],  o 
Indra  and  Agni,  relations  or  kinsmen.  I  have  no  other  counsellor 
than  you, — I  who  have  fabricated  for  you  a  hymn  supplicating  food. 
2.  For  I  have  heard  that  you  are  more  bountiful  than  an  ineligible 
son-in-law  (who  has  to  purchase  his  bride),  or  than  a  bride's  brother : 
so  now,  while  presenting  a  libation  of  Soma,  I  generate  for  you  a  new 
hymn." 

Page  253,  line  15. 

Insert  after  this  the  following  verse':  R.Y.  x.  66,  5.  Sarasvdn  dhilhir 
Varuno  dhrita-vrata\  Pushd  V\shnur  mahimd  Vdyur  Asvind  \  brahma- 

*  .-^ 

krito  amritdh  visva-vedasah  sarma  no  yaifrsanttrivarutham  amhasah  \ 
''  May  Sarasvat  with  thoughts,  may  "VarunaVhose  laws  are  fixed,  may 
Pushan,  Vishnu  the  mighty,  Vayu,  the  Aswns, — may  these  makers  of 
prayers,  immortal,  possessing  all  resources,  afford  us  •xtriple-cased  pro- 
tection from  calamity."  > 


312  APPENDIX. 


Supplementary  Note  on  Kdlatyaydpadishta. — See  pag3  84,  note  89, 
f  and  page  290. 

I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Goldstiicker  ibr  tne  following  additional 
remarks  on  this  expression  : 

The  Tarkasangrahti,  quoted  by  Professor  Cowell  in  h"is  interesting 
note  which  you  kindly  communicated  to  nte,  differs  materially  from  the 
Bhashaparichchheda  in  its  interpretation  of  the  fallacy  called  by  them 
Iddha  ;  and  I  might  add  'that  the  Tarkasangraha-dipikaprakasac  offers 
even  a  third  explanation  of  the  same  Vaiseshika  term.  But  I  do  not 
think  that  the  Iddha  of  the  Vaiseshikas  :s  the  same  as  the  kdlatlta  of 
the  Naiyayikas.  For  when  we  find  that  the*  Ehashaparichchheda  in 
its  enumeration  at  v.  70  applies  to  the  fifth  hetvdbhdsa  the  epithet 
Icdldtyayopadishta  (probably  the  same  as  the  kdldtyaydpadishta  of  the 
iNyaya-sutra  i.  50)  yet  in  its  explanation,  of  v.  77  does  not  call  it 
Mldtlta,  as  the  Nyaya  does,  but  Iddha,  such  a  variation  in  terms 
seems  pointed ;  and  when  we  find  moreover  that  its  interpretation  of 
bddha  differs  from  Vatsyayana's  interpretation  of  Mldtlta,  there  seems 
to  be  a  still  greater  probability  that  the  Nyaya  and  Vaiseshika  disagree 
on  the  question  of  the  fifth  hetvdlhdsa. 

For  that  there  is  no  real  difference  between  the  Nyayabhashya  and 
the  Nyayavritti  is  still  my  opinion.  Both  commentaries,  I  hold,  agree 
in  stating  that  the  fallacy  Mldtlta  arises  when  a  reason  assigned  ex- 
ceeds its  proper  sphere  (sddhanakdla],  and  neither,  I  think,  can  have 
taken  kdla  in  its  literal  sense  of  "  time."  This  might  have  been  the 
case  if,  as  Professor  Cowell  seems  to  suggest,  "plausibility"  of  an 
argument  were  the  subject  of  the  Sutra;  but  as,  in  my  opinion,  the 
hetu  is  always  intended  to  be  a  valid  and  good  hetu,  I  do  not  see  how 
such  a  hetu  can  become  a  bad  one  simply  by  being  advanced  too  late. 
It  would,  however,  become  bad  by  being  applied  to  a  time,  i.e.  to  a 
case  to  which  it  properly  does  not  belong. 

Tne  circumstance  that  the  Vr-ttr  and  Bhasaaparichchheda  are 
probably  works  of  the  same  author,  does  not  invalidate  my  opinion ;  it 
would  seem  on  the  contrary  to  confirm  it,  since  the  object  of  both  these 
works  is  a  different  one :  the  former  being  intended  as  an  exposition  of 
the  Nyaya,  and  the  latter  as  one  of  the  Vaiseshika. 


INDEX  TO  PRINCIPAL.  l^AMES  AND  MATTERS, 


Abhipratarin,  297 

Abhyupagama-vada,  201 

Accentuation,  31 

Acharyya,  92 

Achyuta,  14,  45 

Aditi,  225,  252,  258 

A'dityas,  102,  234 

Adhararani,  47 

Adhokshaja,  43,  47 

Adhvaryu,  5,  53,  54  f. 

Adhvaryava  (Yajur)  Veda, 
212 

Adrishta,  132,  135 

JEther,  whether  eternal  or 
not,  70,  106,  164 

Agastya,  247 

Agni,  5f.,  46  f.,  219  and 
passim 

Agni  a  source  of  inspira- 
tion, 258  f. 

Agni  Savitra,  17 

Agnishtoma,  11 

Ahankara,  195 

Aila  (Pururavas),  47 

Aitareya  Brahmana,  5, 225 

Aitareya  TJpanishad.  i.  1. 
—65 

Aja,  166 

Akshapada  (Gotama),  199 

Akshara,  164 

Alcinous,  269 

Ananda  Giri,  117 

Anga,  53 

Angis,  31 

Angiras,  31,  34,  219  f. 

Angirases,  246 

AnukramanT,  85,  275 

Anushtubh,  11,  278 


Anuvyakhyanas,  205 

Apah  (voters),  8 

Ajpantaratamas,  40 
'  Apastamba,  62,  179 

Apolb,  267,  270 

Apsaras,  247 

Apia,  114  ff.,  124,  128 

Aptofyaman,  11 

Aranyakas,  1,  26 

—  superior  to  rest  of 
Veda,  31 

Argives,  270 

Arka,  224 

Arthavadas,  64 

Aryaman,  266 

As'maka,  53 

Asridh,  225 

Astronomy,  31 

Asura,  the,  258 

Asuras,  49 

Asuri,  192 

As'valayana,  179 

As'valayana' s  Grihya  Su- 
tras, 288 

As'vattha,  46 

As'vins,  228,  236 

Atiratra,  11 

Atharvai?,  priest,  55 

Atharvan,  sage,  31,  220, 
259,  284 

Atharvan  (the  Veda),  11 

Atharvangirases,  3,  9,  21, 

„    42,  205 
^Atharva^Pareishta,  54  f. 

Atharvanas,  54  „ 

Atharva-veda,  quote^ — 
ii.    1,  2,— 260 
iv,35,  6,- 4 
vii.  54, — 1 
x.  7,  14,  20,— 3 


Atharva-jyeda  continued — 
x.  7,  43,  44,— 279 
xi.  7,  24,— 287 
xiii.  4,  38,— 4 
xix.  54,  3,— 4 
—     59,  1,  2,— 260 
Athene,  272 
Atri,  34,  220,  276 
Atris,  243 
Auddalaki,  77 
Aufrecht,  Prof.,    Cat.    of 
Bodl.Sansk.MSS.,27f., 
30,  39 

aid  from  him  ac- 
knowledged, 9,  15,  20, 
64,  219,  221,  287  f. 
Aupamanyava,  213 
Avyakta,  161,  173 
Ayasya,  240 
4yatayama,  51 
Ayu,  222,  225 
Ayur-veda,  114  f.,  116  f., 
132,  135 


B 

Babara  Pravahini,  77  ff. 

Bacchus,  264 

Badarayana,  64,  69,  141, 
and  passim 

» —  controverts  opin- 
ions of  Jaimini,  141  ff. 

of  the  Sankhyas, 

150  ff. 

Bidari,  145 
Bahvrichas,  54 
Ballantyne's  Aphorisms  of 
the  Mimansa,  70  ff. 

Aphorisms  of  the 

Nyaya,^|0ff.,  201 


314 


INDEX. 


Ballantyne's  Aphorisms  of 
the  Sankhya,  133,  168 

Aphorisms  of  the 

Vedanta,  107 

Aphorisms  of  the 


Yoga,  201,  289 

Christianity   con- 


trasted with  Hindu  Phi- 
losophy, 104,  214 

•  Mahabhashya,  104 

•  Siddhanta-mukta- 


vali,  133 

Synopsis  of 


Science,  203 
Banerjea,  Rev.  Prof.  K.M., 
12 

his  Dialogues  on 

Hindu  Philosophy,  31, 
93  f.,  115,  118,  133 

Bauddhas,  181 
Baudhayana,  179 
Benfey,  Prof.,  his  Sama- 
veda,  103,  221,231,238, 
266 

Bhadrasena,  156,  170 
Bhaga,  225 
Bhagavad-glta,  quoted — 

ii.  42ff.,— 37 

i.  32,— 300 

iv.  15,— 97 

referred  to,  193 

Bhagavata  Purana,  equal 

to  the  Veda,  30 

why  composed,  42 

•  quoted —  r 

i.  3,  10,— 192 

—  4,  14  ff.,— 41 

—  7,  6  ff.— - 42 
ii.  8,  28, — 30 

iii.  12,  34,and37ff.— 11 

39,— 207 

iv.  ?9,  42  ff.,— 34 

ix.  8,  12  f.,— 192 

ix.  14,  43  ff.,— 46 

xii.  6,  37  ff.,— 43 
Bhagavatas,    doctrine    of 

the,  177 
Bhakta,  or  figurative  sense1 

of  words,  108 
Bhakti  Sutras,  177 
Bharadvaja,  17,  31 
Bharadvajas,  221 
Bharatas,  276 
Bharati,  255,  257 
Bhargava,  55 
Bhasha-parichcheda,  133, 

150,  290      <J? 


Bhoja-raja,  201 
Bhuh,  5,  7,  14,  104 
Bhuvah,  5,  7,  14,  104 
Bhrigu,  34,  219  ' 
Bhrigus,  233,  237 
Bird,  the,  258 
Blackie,  on  the  Theology 

of  Homer,  272 
Boehtlingk  and  Roth,  Sans- 
krit Dictionary,  20, 15. , 

201,  236,  240  f.,  "263 
Brahma,  8,  21,  24,  33,  43, 

and  passim 
"Brahma,  3,  10,  12  f.,  28, 

31,  34,  4£,  and  passim 
Brahma  composed  of  the 

Rig-veda,  27  & 
Brahma-kanda,  60 
Brahma-mimansa,  its  olf- 

ject,  139  (see  Vedgnta) 
Brahman  (prayer)  224 
Brahmanaspati,  234,  249, 

260  f. 

Brahmarata,  50,  52  fc 
Brahma  Sutras,   69,   93, 

and  passim 
Brahma-vadis,  195 
Brahma-veda,  55 
Brahma-vaivartta-purana, 

i.  48,  quoted,  30 
corrector  of  Veda, 

30 
Brihad  Aranyaka  TJpani- 

shad,  quoted — 
i.  2,  4,— 104 

—  2,  5,—     9 

—  4,  10,— 142 

—  5,  5,—    9 
ii.  2,  3,— 166 

—  4,  10,— 8,  204 
iii.  8,  11,— 164 
iv.  1,  2,— 208 

—  3,  22,— 33 
v.  8,— 254  c 

Brihaspati,  221,  2~56,  260 
Brihati,  15,  278 
Buddha,  202 

ButM  (Bp.),  his  sermons 
on  the  love  of  God,  107 


Calchas,  271 

Caste,  originally  frit  one, 

47  f.. 
Chaitra,  92 


Chaitraratha  and  Chaitra  - 

ratjhi,  297 
Chandala,  34,  178 
Chhandoga  Brahmana,103 
Charana,  53 
Charanavyuht,  56 
Charakas,  52  ff. 
Charakacharyya,  53 
CharakCdhvaryus,  51 
Charvakas,  202 
Chhandas,  206 
i  Cbhandogas,  54    . 
Chhandogya  B.-ahmana, 

181 
Chhandogya  Upanishad, 

quoted — • 
iv.  1,  3,— 294 

—  2,  2,— 293 

—  3,  5,— 296 
-  17,  1-  5 

vi.  2,  1,  3  f.,— 151,  154 

-  3,  2, — 155 

—  4,  1,— 167 

-  8,  6f.,— 155,  176 

-  14,  6,— 156 

-  16,  2,— 157 

vii.  1,1-5,— 32,143,207. 
298 

—  25,  2,— 178 
viii.  7,  2,— 142 

—  15,  1,— 284 
Colebrooke,  Miscellaneous 

Essays,  6,  57,  74,  and 
passim 

Commentary,  31 

Commentators  on  the  Ve- 
da, their  proofs  of  its 
authority,  57  ff. 

Cowell,  Prof.  E.  B.,  his 
translation  of  the  Kusu- 
manjali,  128 

his  aid  acknow- 
ledged, 201,  290  f.,  308 


D 

Dadhyanch,  220 
Daityas,  201 
Daksha,  34,  225 
Danti,  264 
Dasagva,  246 
Demodocus,  269  f. 
Dharma,  300 
Dhi,  224 
Dhishana,  202 
Dhishana,  255 


INDEX. 


315 


Dhiti,  224 
Dhrtiva,  20  , 

Dionysus,  264 
Dissolution    of  the  Uni- 
'  verse,  96,  303 
Dushkrita,'$3 
Dvaipayana,  see  Krishna 
'Dvapara  age,  37,  41,  45, 

48  f.  » 

Dyaus,  246,  266 

•»     , 
E  >      , 

Egyptians,  183  f. 
EkantinS,  289 
Ekavifhs'a,  11. 
Empedocles,  273 
Epimenides,  273 
'Euripides,  264  f. 

F    ' 

Freedom  of  Speculation  in 
India  in  early  times,  57 

G 

Gatha,  23 
Ganambika,  264 
Gandharva,  258,  260  f. 
Gandharvas,  46  ff. 
Ganes'a,  264 
Gargl,  164 
Gaudapada,  265 
Gauua,  or  figurative  sense 

of  words,  108 
Gauri,  264 
Gaya,  244 
Gayatra,  11,  276 
Gayatrl,  7,  11,  13f.,  263 

varieties  of,  263 

— ; mother  of  the  Ve- 

das,  12 
Giris'a,  34 
Gir,  224 
Gods,  capable  of  acquiring 

divine   knowledge,   99. 

141 
Goldstiicker,     Prof.,     his 

Dictionary  referred  to, 

201 
•  Manava-kalpa-su- 

tra  quoted,  95  ff. 

his   aid   acknow- 
ledged, 84,  93,  97,  295, 
303,  etc. 

Gotama,  author  of  Nyaya 
Sutras,  111,  113 


Gotama,  rishi,  235 

Inspiration,  its  nature,  1  25 

Gotamas,  232,  238,  2,41 

Intuition  of  rishis,  125ff., 

Grammar,  31 

18,^ 

Gritsamadas,  233,  235 

Is  a,  45                        # 

,,  Grote's  History  of  Greece, 
2o8,  270  ff. 
Gunas,  12,   32,  44,    150, 

Isaiah  referred  to,  224 
Itihasas,  2,  9,  and  passim, 
see  Smriti 

165,  195 

Guru,  91,  18^0 

*                                     T 

Govinda  Antftida  quoted, 

J 

103,  155,  157,  164,  190, 
and  passim    , 

Jabala,  299 
Jabala,  298  f. 

H" 

JagatI  metre,  11,  276,  278 

• 

Jaimini,39,  40,  42,  45,93, 

Hall,  Dr.,  aid  from  him 
ackrowledged,  12,  52 
,.«  Sankhya    Sara, 

98,  141 

ions     of    Badarayaua, 
141  ff. 

185,  193 
Hanta,  254 
Haridasa    Bhattacharyya, 

1  no 

Jalada,  55 
Jan  (to  generate),  232,  237 
Janaka,  56 

IZo 

Haridrumata,  299 
Harivainsa  quoted  — 

A  *7            1  O 

Janamejaya,  53 
Janas'ruta,  295 
Janas'ruti,  295  ff. 

47,  —  12 

Jarad^ava,  80 

11,516,—  12 
11,665  ff.,—  13 
12,425  ff.,—  14 
Haug,  Prof.,  on  the  signi- 
fication   of    the    word 
brahma,  233  f. 
Hellenic  race,  its  differ- 
ence from  the   Indian, 

O7Q 

Jatavedas,  237,  241 
Jayanarayana    Tarkapan- 
chanana,  120,  175 
John    (St.).     his     First 
Epistle,  S&9 

V,,'c,   fno-i™!      OQQ 

Journal  of  the  Eoyal  Asia- 
tic Society  referred  to, 

Alo 

2,  57,  118,  264  290 

Herodotus    quoted,    183, 
210 

'  Juh'u,  20 

Hesiod  quoted,  183,  268 

Hiranyagarbha,    13,   136, 

K 

163,  285,  305 

Homer,  269  ff. 

Kaiyyata,  95  ff. 

Hotra,  255 

Kakshasena,  297 

Hymns,   distinguished   as 
new  and  old,  224  ff.,  see 
Mantras 

Kalanja,  68 
Kalapa,  91,  132 
Kalapas,  96 

Kalapa,  91 

I 

Kalapaka,  79,  132 

Kalatyayapadishta,  84, 

Ignorance,  164      » 

290,  312 

Ikshvaku,  286 

Kalchas,  270  f. 

Inferior  science,  31,  206 
'  Jla,  V55 

Kali-yuga,  49           , 
Kalidasa,  69  f.,  83  f.,  89 

Indra,  4,    99,    103,    1-62, 

•Kalpa  sutras;  180,  206 

220,  and  passim'           ,  * 

Kanada,  106  and  passim 

<-.  n  f-.-n  4-  1  n  n  1            *3  rt-i-il-.*.-. 

Kandarshis   304 

regarding  Indra,  254    ' 

Kanva,  220 

Kanvas>229 
KapeyaS,>297 

tion,  261  f. 

316 


INDEX. 


Kapi,  297 

Kapila,  37,  and  passim 

how    treated  by 

S'ankara,  184ff.  * 
Ka-pinjala,  241 
Karmakanda,  64 
Karma-mlmansa,  see  Pur- 

va-mlmansa 
Karmasiddhi,  264 
Karttikeya,  264 
Kas"yapa,  285 
Katha  (sage),  77,  83,  91, 

132 

Kathas,  96 
Katha  Upanishad  quoted, 

'  i.  3,  3,  and  10—162 
—  3,  11,— 161 
ii.  23,— 36 

iii.  3,  10f.,— 158ff. 
Kathaka,  76 f.,  79,83,91, 

132 

Katyayana,  179 
Katyayana' s   S'rauta  Su- 
tras, 47 

Kaurma-purana,  200 
Kausika,  249" 
Kaushitaki  Br.,  5,  304 
Kaushitakins,  56 
Kauthuma,  76  f.,  83 
Kavi,  218 
Kes'ava,  28 
Kikatas,  79,  215 
Kohler,  Prophetismus  der 

Hebrceer,  173  f. 
Kratu,  34 
Kri,  (to  make),  232 
Krishna,  29,  42,  286 
Krishna  Dvaipayana,  38  f. 
Krita-yuga,  37,  40,  47  ff. 
Krittikas,  307 
Kulluka  on  Manu,  6,  14, 

23,  26,  180 
Kumarila,  95 
Kumvya,  23 
Kus'ikas,  233,  247 
Kusumanjali  quoted,128fF. 
Kusurubinda,  77 
Kuthumi,  77,  83 
Kutsa,  213 


Lassen,  In.  Ant.,  38 
Laukayatikas,  199 
Linga-purana,  263 
Lokayata,  95      ^ 
Lomaharshana,  e± 


M 

Madhava,  author  of  Nya- 
ya-mala-vistara,  82 

author  of  the'3ar- 


va-dars'ana-sangraha,86 

author  of  the  Ye- 

dartha-prakasa,  onT.S., 
quoted,  6jfj  ff.  (^ 

Madhuchhandas,  30\5 
Madhuvidya,  141,  286 
Madhusiiuana    Sarasvati, 
t  194 

Madras,  81  , 

Mahabharata,    origin    of 
the  name,  29 

is  a  Veda  Velating 

to  Krishna,  29 

equal  to  the  Veda, 

29 

composed  by  Na- 

rayana,  39 

•  why  compose^  42 

quoted — 


Adi-parvan — 
258,— 31 
261,  264  f.,— 29 
645,— 29 
2298,— 29 
2314,— 29 
2417,— 38 
4236,— 38 
Vana-parvan — 

13432,— 12 
Udyoga-parvan — 

1537,— 288 
Bhlshma-parvan — 

3019,— 14 
S'anti-parvan — 
7660,— 85,  101 
8505,— 49 
8533  ff.,— 16,  69 
12920,— 14    f 
13088  ff.,— 48       . 
13432,— 12 


12551,— 289 

13678,— 40 
Svargarohanika-parvan 

200  ff.,— 29' 
Mahabhashya,  95 
MahasVUa  S'aunaka,  31 
!ftlahasena   (Karttikeya), 
<     264  <". 

Mahat,  754,  172f. 
Mahesvara,  16 


Mahidhara    on   the  Vaj. 

San-,  quoted,  39 
Maitreya,  37 
Maitrl  Upanishad — 

vi.  22, -176 
MalatI  Madhal.'a,  90 
Mana  (Agastya),  247 
Manas,  233 
Manava10  dharma  -  Bastra 

quoted — 
,     *  i.  21  ff.,—  6 
f  —  85  f.,  —48 
ii.  10  ff.,— '24 

—  76ff.,-,7 

—  97,— 25 

—  166  f.,— 288 
iv.  123  f.,—  25 
vi.  82  ff.,— 24 
xi.  243,— 85 
iii.  91,— 190 

—  94  ff.,— 23 

—  106,— 24,  181 
Mandhatri,  229 
Manava-kalpa-sutra,  95 
Manisha,  224 
Manman,  224 
Mantras,  1,  33,  62 ff.,  115, 

224 
magical     power 

ascribed  to,  275  ff. 
Manu,   181  f.,   190,   220, 

285 

Manvantaras,  38 
Marichi,  34 
Markandeya  Purana,  102, 

lff.,"quoted,  11 
Maruts,  102,  226,  263 
Mati,  224 
Matsya  Purana,   iii.  2ff. 

quoted,  28 
Mauda,  55 
Maya,  164,  195,  202 
Medhatithi,  6 
Mcdhavi,  218 
Meru,  50,  52 
Mitra,  225,  227 
Mimansa,  see  Purva-mi- 

mansa,  28 
Mlraansakas,  their  alleged 

atheism,  94  f. 
"•  Mlmansa-varttika,  95 
Minerva,  273 
Moksha-dharma  quoted, 

199f. 

Mudakas,  96 
Mukhya,  or  proper  senes 

of  words,  107 


INDEX. 


317 


Miiller,  M.,  Profr.  aid  re- 
ived from  237    , 

Nyaya  Sutras     quoted, 
108  ff. 
Nyaya-njala-Yistara,  quot- 
'ed,  82,  179,  181 
,  Nyava-sutra-vritti,  108 

0 

A 

Qdana  oblation,  4 
Jdyssey,  269V  272  f. 
Omkara,  44 
Oracles,  273 

>                      P 

••» 
Padma-purana  quoted,  27 
Paila,  3J),  41~fc,  45 
Paingins,  56 
"Paippalada,  55 
Panchadas'a-stoma,  11 
Pancnajanah,  168 
Panini,  56,  91 
Pankta,  15 
PaiXs'ara,   38,    40  f.,   45, 
199  £ 
Paras'ara  Upapurana,  199 
Parjanya,  252 
Paruchbepa,  a  risbi,  212 
Pas'upata  system,  202 
Pas'upatas,  195 
Patanjalas,  195 
Patanjali,    Mababbasbya, 
56,  95  f. 
.    Vncrn    1  OS 

Pramaganda,  79 
Praskanva,  220 
Pras'na  Upanisbad,  Comm. 
on,*l91 
—  i  1      °97        ^ 

Lit.,  1,  2,  36,  53,  56  f., 
'175,  280  f. 
••-  Ch'ps  etc    18 

Prastbana-bbeda,  194  ff. 
Praudbi-vada,  201 
Praiiga,  278 
Britbivi,  266 
Priyamedha,  220 
Prosody,  31 
Psalms,  224 
Pulastya,  34 
Pulaba,  34 
*  Pundarikaksba,  89 
Puranas,»2,  27,  and  passim, 
see  Smriti 

.   Tnnr     T?      A      R 

«    230,  236,  255 

Soc.,  20,  104,  127,  183 
Mundaka  Upanishad-r-  . 
i.  i,,  1-5,—  30,  204,^84, 
ii.  1,  4,*and  6,  —  30 
iii.  !,;,—!  76 
Muni,  219 
Muses,  267  ff.' 

N 

Nabhaka,  230    ' 
Nabhaka,  229 
Nabhan,  246 
Nagelsbach's  Nachhomer- 
ische  Tbeologie,  273 
Nagojibhatta,  95  ff. 
Nahusha,  283 
Naichas'akha,  79 
Naka  Maudgalya,  22 
Name  and  Form,  152,  155, 
163,  167,  302,  etc. 
Nasatvas  (As'vins),  240 
Narad'a,  32,  34 
Narayana,  47. 
Narayaua-tlrtha,  128 
Naras'ansis,.  215 
Navagva,  221,  246 
Nestor,  273 
Nigada,  45 
Nigama,  180 
Nirukta,  quoted  — 
'  i.  20,—  118,  213 
iii.  11,—  213 
iv.    6,—  212 
vii.  1,  3,—  211 
-    16,—  219 
viii.     3,—  277 
x.  32,—  213 
—   42,—  212 

Vedas,  27  f. 

—  —  form  witb  tbe  Iti- 
basas  a  fiftb  Veda,  33, 
42 
Pururavas,  45  ff.,  205 
Purusba,  3,  4,  and  passim 
Purusha-medba,  35 
Purusba-sukta   (R.  V.    x. 
90,  1,  9),  3,  61,  69,  89 
Purva  -  mimansa     Sutras 
quoted,  70  ff. 
Purva-mimansa,  its  object, 
139 
Pusban,  226,  263 
Pytbagoras,  273 
•» 

E 

Ragbunandana,  68 
Raghuvans-a,  77 
Rahugauas,  241 
Raikva  and  Rainka,  296  f. 
Rajas,  12,  32,  48,  150 
Rajasuya  sacrifice,  184 
Rajendra  lal   Mittra,  his 
translation  of  the  Upa- 
nishad,  167,  296  f.,  299 
'  Rakshases,  55 
Ramanujas,  195 
Ramayana,  i.  1,  94  quoted 
29 
»  equal  to  the  Veda, 
30 
Rathantara,  276 
Rationalistic  treatises,  24 
Ri  (to  move,  send  forth), 
240    A 

Paulkasa,  34 
Paurusbeya,  9,  90,  134 
Paurusheyatva,  90 
Pavaua,  5 
Pertsch,  alphabetical  list 
of  initial  words,  of  rich- 
verses,  103 
Pbemius,  270 
Pbseacians,  269 
Pbiloso.pbical        systems, 
tbeir  mutual  relations, 
194  ff. 
Pippalada,  298 
Pippaladakas,  96    •> 
Pitamaba,  28 
"»  Plati,  244 
'Plato  ^uoteH,  1«3 

206,  247     "* 
Nitha,  224 
Nivid,  224 
Nodhas,  235 
Nrimedha,  a  rishi,  213 
Nyaya,  whether  theistic  or 
not,  133 

spiration,  273      -»           -, 
Polypbemus,  265 
Prabliakara,  91,  180          •> 
Pradhana,  150,  etp. 
Prakriti,  164,  166 

318 


INDEX. 


Ribhus,  237,  261 

Rig-veda  continued  — 

Rig-veda  continued  — 

Rich,  224 

Fi,rst  Mandala  — 

Six-*;h  Mandala  —   l 

Rich-verses,  11,  12,^15 

184,  5,—  233 

14,  2,—  251 

Ric-veda,  quotations  from, 

185,  1,—  280 

16,  47,—  236 

First  Mandala  — 

Second  Mandala  —  R        « 

17,  13,—  227 

1,  2,—  219 

3,  8,—  255 

18,  15,—  ^261 

3,  11,  12,—  254 

17,  1,—  225 

19,  4,—  221 

12,  11,—  224 

18,  3,—  225 

21,  5,—  221 

18,  6,  7,—  258 

19,  8,  -,5  35 

—  Si,—  221 

20,  1,—  232 

23,  2,—  260      4        ' 

22,  2,—  221 

22,  10,—  255 

24,  1,—  226 

-     '—   7,—  227 

27,  4,—  225 

35,  ",  —  235 

26,  3,—  261 

31,  1,  2,—  251 

39,  8,—  233 

32,  1,—  236 

—  11,—  255 
—  18,—  232 
32,  1,—  212" 

Third  Mardala— 
1,  20,—  226 

34,  1,—  227,261 
38,  3,—  243 
44,  13,—  227 

37,  4,—  252 

2,  1,—  £37 

47,  3,—  264 

40,  5,  6,—  260 

18,  3,  —  255 

—   10,—  261 

45,  3,  4,—  220 
47,  2,—  232 
48,  14,—  220 
60,  3,—  225 
—  5,—  242 
61,  2,—  241 

21,  3,  —  251 
29,  15,—  248 
30,  20,—  233 
32,  13,—  226 
39,  1,  2,—  226 
43,  5,—  248         ( 

48,  11,—  227 
49,  1,—  227 
50,  6,—  227 
—    15,—  221 
52,  2,—  233 
62,  4,—  228 

—  4,—  241 

53,  9,—  248 

,    69,  2,—  262 

—   16,—  232 

—  12,—  276 

75,  19,—  277 

62,  13,—  235 

—  14,  —  215 

Seventh  Mandala  — 

66,  2,—  251 

54,  17,—  261 

7,  6,—  236 

67,  3,—  275 

58,    3,—  220 

15,  4,—  237 

—  4,—  311 

62,    7,—  226 

18,  1,—  222 

77,  5,—  242 
78,  5,—  242 

_  10,—  263 
Fourth  Mandala  — 

19,  11,—  277 
22,  9,—  237 

80,  16,—  220 

3,  16,—  242 

26,  1,-  238 

89,  3,—  225 

5,  3,—  259 

29,  4,—  222 

91,  11,—  242               « 

6,  —  259 

31,  11,—  238 

94,  1,—  241 

6,  1,—  259 

33,  3,—  277 

96,  2,—  225 

_  11,—  233 

—  7-13,—  246 

102,  1,—  242 

11,  3,—  259 

34,  1,—  255 

109,  1,  2,  4,—  311 

16,  20,  21,—  233 

—  9,—  255 

116,  1,—  240 

20,  5,—  220 

35,  14,—  234 

117,  25,—  233 

32,  12,-242 

37,  4,—  234 

118,  3,—  220 

43,  1,2,—  255 

53,  1,—  222 

130,  6,—  235 

50,  1,—  221 

—   2,—  228 

—   10,—  225 

Fifth  Mandala-^ 

56,  23,—  228 

131,  6,—  220 

2,  11,-  235 

69,  4,—  228 

139,  9,—  220 

11,  5,—  242 

61,  2,—  240 

143,  1,—  225 

22,  4,—  243 

—  6,—  228 

152,  5,—  253 

2#,  1,—  251 

64,  4,—  236 

164,  5,  6,—  279 

29,  15,—  235 

66,  11,—  266 

-  20,—  176 

31,  4,—  276 

67,  5,-  243 

—  25,—  276 

40,  6,  '5-276 

76,  4,—  222 

-    37,—  279 

a     42,  6,—  220 

85,  1,—  243 

169,  3,—  59 

*',       _?13,—  226 

87,  4,—  248 

171,  2,—  235 

44,  8,—  59 

88,  4,—  248 

175,  6,—  220 

45,  4,—  243 

91,  1,—  222 

179,  2,—  18?.  245 

55,  "3,—  227 

93,  1,—  228 

183,  6,  —  loS 

73,  10,—  236 

94,  1,  2,—  238 

INDEX. 


319 


Ri'j-veda  continued  — 

Eig-veda  continued  — 

Eig-veda  continued  — 

Seventh  Mandala-  — 

Ninth  Mandala  —  . 

Tenth  Mandala  — 

97,  3,  5,-261 

42,  -2,—  231 

-r   14,—  240 

.     —  9,—  234 

62,  1,—  103 

95,  14,—  212        v 

104,  15,—  212 

.,73,  2,—  239 

96,  5,—  223 

Eighth  Mandala  — 

76,  4,—  265 

—  11,—  231 

3,  3,—  249 

87,  3,—  249 

98,  9,—  223 

5,  18,—  243 

*   91,5,—  231 

101,  2,—  234 

5,  24,—  228  ' 

-,      92,  3,-267 

'      106,  6,—  59 

6,  10,—  250 

J       P,5,  1,—  939 

107,  6,—  244 

—  11,—  228         '     • 

—   2,—  265 

109,  4,—  250 

—  33,—  236          >      . 

96,  5-7,—  ^,66 

110,  8,—  257 

—  4i,—  251 

—  11,—  222 

111,  1,—  244 

—  43,—  229 

—   18,—  251 

112,  9,—  252,  262 

8,  8,—  243 

99,  4,-^231 

114.  8,  9,—  277 

12,  10,—  229 

107,  7,—  251 

115;  5,—  252 

—   14,  -258 

119,  7,—  223 

116,  9,—  240 

—  31,—  240 

114,  2,—  234 

117,  6,—  212 

•       13,  7,—  262 

Tenth  Mandala  — 

125,  3-5,—  257 

—    26,—  24,0 

.4,  5,—  259 

129,  2,—  212 

16,  7,—  251 

4,  6,—  231 

—     5,—  59 

19,  5,  6,—  3 

7,  2,—  239 

—     5-7,—  280 

20,  19,—  229 

X  14,  15,—  223 

—     6,—  60 

23,  14,—  229 

1  20,  10,—  253 

130,  1-7,—  277  f. 

25,  24,—  229 

21,  5,—  259 

139,  5,—  260 

27,  11,—  243 

23,  5-7,—  239 

154,  2,  5,—  250 

—    13,—  256 

26,  4,—  263 

160,  5,—  231 

36,  7,—  222 

27,  22,—  252 

167,  1,—  250 

39,  6,—  229 

31,  7,—  280 

176,  2,—  258 

40,  4,  5,—  230 

34,  13,—  212 

177,  1,—  258 

—    12,—  229 

36,  5,—  260 

190,  1,—  250 

41,  2,—  229 

39,  14,—  236,  267 

Eishis,  nature  of  their  in- 

—  5,  6,—  266 

42,  ],—  244 

spiration,  125,  183 

43,  2,—  238 

54,  3,—  221 

i             "seers"    of    the 

44,  12,—  230 
48,  3,—  265 
49,  9,—  277 
51,  4,—  234 

—  6,—  234 
57,  2,—  278 
—   3,—  229 
61,  7,—  253 

hymns,  211 

new  and  old,  218ff. 

52,  4,—  262 

62,  1,  3,  —  246 

55,  11,—  230 
,   63,  7,  8,—  230 

—  4,  5,—  246 
63,  17,—  244 

selves    as    authors    of 
hymns,  232  ff. 

f*l              /I                       yiQ           Ofi*T 

£*£*        K              Q1   1 

65,  5,  6,  12,—  230 

DO,  u,  oil 

66,  14,—  223 

racter  ascribed  to,  245  ff. 

77   4      238 

6°  1      ^39 

nf\-r\     ft'  r\      n        f  A  '       ' 

78,  3,—  263 

71,  1-6,—  256 

inspiration,  252  ff. 

—   6,  7,  —  262 

71,  3      105 

,1    •                «, 

79,  3,—  234 

72,  1,  2,—  24g 

views     how     reconcil- 

84, 4,  5,—  238 

80,  7,—  237 

able,  274  f. 

88,  4,—  253 

81,  4,—  280 

thr'          f  ""'        f 

89,  3,  4^-254 

K8,  8,->—  25,3 

ignorance,  279  ff. 

—  10,  11,—  253 

—    18,  —  280 

90,  16,—  256 
Ninth  Mandala  — 
9,  8,—  231 

89,  3,—  231    ., 
_  5,—  59 
.90,  1,—  61                 -, 

spiration  different  from 
that  of   later    writers, 

981  f 

12,  7,—  267 

—  9,—  3,  61,  89 

ZO  1  1. 

25,  5,—  265 

91,  8,—  259" 

-  33,  5,—  256 

—  13,—  231 

Eitual,  3\ 

320 


INDEX. 


Roer,  Dr.  E.,  his  transla- 
tions and  introductions 
to  the  Upanishads,  36, 
185,  193,  254,  291 

— ^ his    Bhasha-pari- 

chheda,  133 

his  German  trans- 
lation of  the  Vais'eshika 
aphorisms,  118,  120    , 
•  his  remarks  on  the 


doctrine  of  the  Upani- 
shads, 173 

•  his  remarks  on  the 


Sankhya,  193 
Romaharshana,  39 
Roth,  Illustration.^  of  Ni- 

rukta,  47,  230,  246  f. 
Rudra,  64,  234 
composed  of  the 

Sama-veda,  27 
Rudras,  102.  234 

S 

S'abara,  Svamin,  70,  80 
Sacrifices,  the  five  great,  20 
Sacrifice  eternal,  6 
Sadasaspati,  258 
Sadhyas,  6,  12 
Sagara,  sons  of,  190,  192 
S'akhas  of  the  Veda,  37, 

42,  56 

S'akti,  164,  173,  306 
Sama-rathantara,  11 
Sama-veda,  impurity  of  its 

sound,  26  f. 

i.  299  quoted,  252 

Saman,  224 
Saman-verses,  11 
S'ami  wood,  46 
Samidhenis,  213 
S'amsa,  224 
Samvarga-vidya,  295  S. 
Sanaka,  34 
Sanatkumara,  32  f. 
S'andilya,  an  ancient  sage, 

178 
. •  author    of     the 

Bhakti   Sutras   quoted, 

177'f. 
S'ankara  Acharya's    com-, 

mentary  on  the  Brahma 

Sutras  quoted,  62,  98ff., 

106,   108,  140  S.,   177, 

182,  185  ff.,  203,   289, 

29  Iff.  , 


S'ankara  Acharya's  com. 

^Sayana,  hisVedartha-pra- 

mentary  on  the  Br.  ~Ar. 
Up',  quoted,  34*  204 

kas'a,  or  commenta-}  on 
R.V.  quoted,  58  ff.,  76, 
78,  80,  105,  206,  215, 

Chhandogya  Up.,  296    c 

219 

S9.TU2TV3.il    296 

Pras'na  Up.  quoted,  191 

Siddhanta-muktavali,  133 

on  the  Taitt.  Up. 

S'iksha,  206                      « 

quoted,  191 

Skambk>.,  3 

S'ankara  Mf^ra  comm.  o| 

Skanda,  264 

Vais'eshika,  120,  V25 

S'hxkas,  9,  205 

Sankhya  aphorisms,    133, 

,  Snu-iti,  24,  181,  and  passim 

168      *• 
Sankhya-karika,  138,  166 

Smritis,    extent*  and  con- 
ditions of  their  autho- 

Sankhya-pra'-acb.ana-bha- 

rity,  181  ff. 

shya,  196  ff. 
S'antanu,  45 
Saptadasa-stoma,  11 

Sobhari,  229 
Soma,  god,  8,  223 

SarasvatI,    goddess,    14,  '"' 

1     tion  264  ff. 

254  f.,  257,  282 

—  mother    of   the 

Somas'araian,  92 

Vedas,  14 

Soul,  unity  of,  190,  203 

Souls,   diversity    of,   169, 

S'ariraka  -  mimansa  -  H  aa- 
shya,  98   See    S'ankara 

175 

Sound,  eternitv  of,  affirm- 

_   J      ' 

Acharya 

ed,  7  Iff.,  90  ff. 

S  'ariraka  sutras,  98 

Sarva-dars'ana-  sangraha- 
86  ff. 

Species  or  Genera  eternal, 
102 

S'atapatha  Brahmana, 
quoted  — 

Sphota,  44,  104f.,  136  f. 
S'ramana,  34 

iii.  4,  1,  22,  —  47 

S'ruti,  24 

iv.  1,  2,  19,—  53 

Sruva,  20 

vi.  1,  1,  8,  —  7 

Stoma,  224 

—  1,  2,  19,—  5 

Stuti,  224 

vii.  5,  2,  52,—  9 

Sudas,  277 

ix.  4,  4,  4,  —  223 
x.    3,  5,  12,—  31 
4(  2,  21,  —  14 

S'udras,  unfit  for  study  of 
Veda,  42,  68,  99,  292  ff. 

—  6,  o,  4,  —  104 
xi.  5,  1,  1,—  48 

highest  bliss,  178 

—  5,  6,  1-7,  10,—  18 
—5,  8,  1,  —  4 

S'uka,  43 
Sumati,  224 

xiv.  4,  3,  12,-<9 

Sumantu,  39,  40,  42,  45 

—    5,  4,  10,  —  8 

Superior  science,  31,  206 

—    7,  1,  22,—  33 

Sushtuti,  224 

,  Sattva  guna,  12,  32,  150 

Surya,  5  f.,  266 
Suta,  39,  43 

Satvata-samhita  (the  Bha- 

Svadha,  20,  254 

gavata  Pur.)  42 

Svaha,  254 

Satyakama,  29S1       < 

.Svar,  5,  7,  1*4 

Sa,tyavaha,  31 

Svarbhanu,  276 

Ratyav^tT,  45 
Cf  aunaka,  297,  305 

Svayambbuva    manvan- 

A             rt          OO     f 

^'aunakas   55 

tara,  ov  t. 

Savitri,  263 

S'vetaketu,  155 

Savitrl,  f,  14 

S'vetasVatara,  sage,    284 

INDEX. 


321 


S'oretas'vatara  Upanishad 

quoted — 

iv.  5,— 165 
,—  10,— 164 

v.  2,— I?*,  188  ff.,  283 

vi.  6,— 176 
,    —  11,— 171 

—  18,— 304 

-  21,— 284    ' 
S'yavas'va,  222 


Taittirlyas,  61 
Taittirlya  Aranyaka,   vii. 
•    8,— 22 

Taittirlya  Brahmana  [?],' 
275 

quoted — 

ii.  3,  10,  1,— 8 

—  4,  2,  6,— 278 

—  8,  8,  5,— 10,  234 
iii.  3,  9,1,— 10    •• 

—  10,  11,  3,— 16 

—  12,  9,  1,— 15 
Taittirlya  Samhita  quoted, 

i.  2,  1,  1,— 69  f. 
ii.  5,  8,  3,-212 
vii.  3,  1,  4,— 17 

Taittirlya  Upanishad,  65 
•        comm.  on,  191 

Tamas,  12,  32,  150,  202 

Tamasa  works,  202 

Tapas,  250 

Tarka-sangraha,  127, 133, 
150 

Taksh  (to  fabricate),  232, 
235 

Telemachus,  273 

Thamyris,  269 

Thirl  wall,  Bp.,his  history 
of  Greece,  274 

TikshnaS'ringa,  264 

Time,~4 

Tiras'chI,  238 

Tittiri,  77,  83 

Treta-yuga,  3"%  45,  47 

Triple  science,  8 

Trisarvi,  53 

Trishtubh,  278 

Trita,  212 

Tritsus,  277 

Trivrit,  11 

Tvashjri,  252 


u 

* 
Udayana  Acharyya,  128 
Uddllaka  Aruni,  286 
'  Uktla,  224,  278 
Ukthya,  11 
TJ^sses,  270 
Unborn  Female,  165,  171 
Inborn  Mille^  165 
<Upabnrit,  20 
Upanishads,  1,  2.  138,  and 
passim 

Varutri,  255 
Vasavya,  41 
Vash*t,  254 
Vashatkara,  14,  21      9 
Vasishtha,  34,  246  ff. 
Vasishthas,  223,  246 
Vastoshpati,  253 
Vasus,  102,  226,  234      • 
Vatsa,  243 
Vatsyayana  quoted,  115 
Vayu,  5  f.,  222 
Vavu  Purana,   27  f.,   39, 
51 
•  Vedantas,  1,   see  Upani- 
ehads> 
Vedilnta  Sutras,  98  ff. 
Vedartha-prakas'a  on  R.V. 
quoted,  58  ff.,  80 

rvn  T  *!      ft^i  ff 

parts  of  th^  Veda,  31 

form  According  to  S'an- 
kara,  out  really  various, 
"   108,  175 

Upapuranas,  30 
Urvasi,  4~5  ff.,  205,  247 
Us'anas,  249 
Usr-as,  243 
Uslpias,  44 
Ushnih  metre,  11,  278 
Uttararani,  47 

V 

Vach,  8,  10,  104  f.,  253  f., 
256  f.,  282 
Vachas,  224 
Vajasaneyins,  53 
Vajasaneyi  ritual,  53 

Vedas,  general  account  of, 
If. 

tra  and  Brahmana,  1,62 

fice  of  Purusha,  3 
from  Skambha  3 

t        rv      'A 

oblation,  4 

and  supplication,  4 

Vayu,  and  Surya,  4  f  °  6  1 

iii.  53,—  229 
v.  2,—  46 
xiii.  53,—  9 
xvi.  53,—  60 
xviii.  52,—  223 
xxx.  18,—  53 
Vajins,  51  f. 
Vairupa,  11 
Vais'ampayana,  39,  40,  42, 
45,  50  ff. 
Vais'eshika,  106,  175 
Vaishnavas,  195 
Vaisvanara  (Agni),  237 
-)Vaivasvata     Manvantara, 
,    31f.,45  -      , 
Vaktratunda(Ganes'a),264, 
VSlakhilya  xi.  6,—  2,62 
Aralmiki,  77                         » 
Varuna,  227,  243,  247  f., 
262' 

firmed,  6,  18,  71,  76,  78, 
105,  803 

nied,  109,  117,  119,  130 
134 

character  (apaurusheya- 
tva),  6 

names,  forms,  and  func- 
tions of  creatures,  6,  16, 
,     104 

pati  and  from  the  waters, 
8,  14 
—i  the  breathing  of 
the  great  Being,  8,  135, 
205 

of  speech  and  soul,  9 

tion,  262,  266 

mind,  and  breath,  9 

21 


322 


INDEX. 


Vedas  dug  from  the  mind- 
ocean,  10 

Vedas  voice  of   Brahma, 
30, 

jCpati's  beard,  1  0 

the  inferior  science,  31 

Vach,  10 

s'astras,  31,  33 

•  from  Brahma's  mouths, 
10  f. 

part  decried  in  the  Bha- 
gavadGita^  Chhandogyr 
Upanisha£,  "and  Bihaga\ 
vata  Purana,  32  ff. 

verally  by  the  different 
gunas,  12 

found  sleep  are  no  Ve- 
"  das,  34 

12 

mother,  12  f. 

through  them,  36 

ferent  parts  of  Brahma's 
body,  13 

37  ff.,  47*7 

ta,  14 

tent,  38,  40 

ther,  14 

division,  40  f. 

prehended  in  them,  15 

by  women,  S'udras,  etc., 
42,  299 

tively  of  form,  motion, 
and  heat,  15 

of  their  division,  47 

hes'vara,  16 

Asuras  but  recovered  by 
Brahma,  49 

17 

Brahma,  49 

of  them,  18,  27 

appearance,  49 

fice,  20 

adherents    of   different 
Vedas,  49  ff. 

fits,  21 

dyof,  2  Iff. 

herents  of  Yajur-veda, 
and  its  separation  into 
white  and  black,  50  ff. 

praved,  25 

repeating  them  removes 
sin,  25 

against  objections,  and 
defence  of  their  autho- 
rity, by  their  commen- 
tators, 57  ff. 

body    of   Vishnu,    and 
severally  the  substance 
of  Brahma,  Vishnu,  and 
Rudra,  27 

Mimansakas  in  favour 
of  their  eternity  and  au- 
thority; 70  ff.    '            '  « 
'••  "seen"    by  ^he 
„     ristis,  85,  212  . 

Puranas,  27 

the  Itihasas  and  the  Pu- 
ranas, 29 

Vedantists  on  their  eter- 
nity and  authority,  98ff. 

ma-vaivartt?.'    Purana, 
30 

ma,  106 

Vedas,  how  interpreted  ,hy 
theologians,  107 

•  arguments  of  the 
adherents  of  the  Nyaya, 
Vaiseshika,     and   San- 
khya  in  support  of  their" 
authority,   but    against 
their  eternity,  lOSff. 

'texts    of,     inter- 
preted    variously      by 

•  different    philosophers, 


distinguished  from 

all  other  S'Sftras  by 
being  independent  and 
infallible,  179  ff. 

recapitulation    of 


arguments  in  support  of. 
their  authority,  with  re- 
marks, 207  ff. 

ideas  of  the  rishis 


regarding  the  origin  of 
their  hymns,  2l7ff. 
•  hymns  of,  distin- 


guished as  old  and  new, 
224  ff. 

hymns  of,  made, 


fabricated,  or  generated, 
by  the  rishis,  232  ff. 

hymns  of,  ascribed 

to  the  inspiration  of  the 
gods,  252  ff. 

hymns  of,  a  magi- 


cal power  attributed  to, 
275  ff. 

sprang  from   the 


leavings  of  the  sacrifice, 

287 

Vedhas,  219 
Verbal  brahma,  35 
Videha,  56 
Vidhi,  64 
Vidura,  295,  300 
Yidvan  -  moda  -  tarangim, 

208 
Vijnana    Bhikshu,     133, 

172,  196,  and  passim 
Vidya,  205 
Vimada,  239  f.,  253 
Vimadas,  239 
Vipas'chit,  219 
Vipra,  218 
Viraj  metre,  11,  278 
Virochana,  142 
Virupa,  69,  75,  220,  246, 

267 
Vishnu,  37,  40,  53,  244, 

262,  266 


Vishnu,  composed  of  the 

feda,  18,  127     - 
Vishnu  Purana  quoted — 
i.   2,  13,"— 4 

—  5,  48  ff.,— 10 

—  5, -58, —16 

—  17,  54,— 201 
ii.  11,  5ff.,— 26 
iii.  2,  12,— 49 

—  2,  18  ff.,— 37 

—  3,  4  ff.,— 37  -     > 

—  3,  19ff.,— 1S\     , 

—  4,  Iff.,— 38 

—  o,  2  ff.,— 49 

—  6,  22  f.,— 18 

—  18,  22,— 128 
iv.  6,— 47 

-  Vis  vamitra,    247  f.,   276, 

283 
Vis'vanatha  Bhattachary- 

ya,  108,  217 
Vis'vavasu,  260 
Visvedevas,  102 
Vivasvat,  286 
Viyukla,  126 


INDEX. 


Vrihaduktha,  234 
Vrihat-sama,  11       « 
Vrihaspati,    heretical 

'teacher,  202 
Vrijiaspati,    author  of 

smriti,  181 
Vrish'a,  264 
Vrittra,  228 
iV'yaliritis,  44 


Vyakhyanas,  205 
Vyasa,  37,  77,  89 


Webe^  Prof.,  Ind.  Eit., 
,  53 

Ind.  Stud.,  22,47, 

53  ff.,  193  f,  296,  and 
passim 

— - —  Vaj.  San.  Spec., 
£75 

^fcitney,  Prof.,  his  opin- 
ion referred  to,  258 


323 


Wilson,  Prof.  H.  H.,  2 

translation  of  Vish- 

nv,Purana,  11,  62, 193, 
and  passim  ^ 

translation  of  Kig- 

yeda,  2 

Sankhyakarika,  44 

Women  unfit  for  the  study 
'  of  the  Veda,  42,  68 


Yajnadatta,  102 
Yajna-paribhasha,  62 
Yainavalkya,  50  ff. 
Yajush,  224 
Yajush- verses,  11 
Yama  (Agni  ?),  247 
Yama,  245,  250 
Yaska,  see  Nirukta 
Yoga  aphorisms,  184,  201 
Yogas,  137 
Yogins,  126 
Yukta,  126 


THE   END. 


STEPHEN   Al'STTN,   PRINTER,  HERTFORD. 


CATALOGUE  OF  DIPORTANT  WORKS, 

*  > 

IN    ALL    DEPARTMENTS    OF  4 

LITERATURE    AND    SCIENCE, 


PUBLISHED    BY 


TR$B.NER  &  CO.', 

60,    PATERNOSTER   ROW,    LONDON. 

* 


_ 

ADDRESS  OF  THE  ASSEMBLED  STATES  OF  ScHJllUB  WTO  fo  His  MAJESTY 
•*  THE  KINO  OF  DENMARK.     S.vo.  pp.  32.     1861.     Is. 

Adler.  —  THE  SECOND  P)AYS  OF  THE  FESTIVALS.  *A  Sermon  delivered 
at  the  New  Synagogue,  Great  SI.  Helen's,  on  the  second  day  of  Passover,  5028, 
by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Adler,  Chief  R^bbi.  Printed  by  request.  8vo.,  pp.  16,  sewed. 
1868.  6d.  , 

ADMINISTRATION  (THE)  OF  FCHE  CONFEDERATE  STATES.  Correspon- 
dence between  Hon.^.T.  A.  Campbell  and  Hon.  W.  H.  Seward,  all  of  which  was 
laid  before  the  Provisional  Congress,  on  Saturday,  by  President  Davis.  8vo. 
sewed,  pp.  8.  1861.  Is. 

.  —  THE  FABLES  OF  ^Bsop.     "With  a  Life  of  the  Author,  Illus- 


trated with  111  Engravings,  from  Original  Designs  by  Herrick,  handsomely 
printed  on  toned  paper.  8vo.  pp.  xiii.  and  311.  1865.  Cloth,  extra  gilt  edges. 
10s.  6d. 

Agassiz.  —  AN  ESSAY  ON  CLASSIFICATION.     By  Louis  Agassiz.     8vo. 

pp.  viii.  and  381.     Cloth.    1859.     12s. 

Agassiz.  —  METHODS  OF  STUDY  IN  NATURAL  HISTORY.     By  L.  Agassiz. 

12mo.  pp.  319.     Cloth.     1864.     os.  6d. 

Agassiz.  —  GEOLOGICAL  SI&TCHES.  By  L.  Agassiz.  With  portrait 
and  numerous  Illustrations.  1  Vol.,  crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  iv.  and  311.  1866. 
10s.  Gel. 

Agassiz.  —  JOURNEY  IN  BRAZIL.  By  Professor  and  Mrs.  Louis 
Agassiz.  In  1  large  8vo.  vol.  with  numerous  Illustrations,  8vo.  pp.  xx.  540. 
1868.  21s. 

Agassiz.  —  SEA-SIDE  STUDIES  IN  NATURAL  HISTORY.  By  Elizabeth 
C.  and  Alexander  Agassiz.  "With  numerous  Illustrations.  8vo.  pp.  vi.  and 
155.  1865.  12s. 

Agiiero.  —  BIOGRAFIAS    DE    CCJBANOS    DISTINGUIDOS.       For    P.    De 

Agiiero.  I.  Don  Jose  Antonio  Saco.  En  8vo.  mayor,  88  paginas,  con  rctrato. 
1860.  6s.  "  „*•  'f 

Agiiero,  —  LA  GUERRA  DE  ITALIA,  y  la  Paz  Cie  Villafranca,  con  todos 
sus  incidentes  y  sus  complicaciones  y  consecuyncKj  politicas  hasta  la  nueva 
constitucion  de  la  Peninsula.  Coleccion  de  artk  Alos  publicados  en  varies  1'erio- 
difos  de  Europa  y  America.  Poi  P.  de  Agiiero.  tm  tomo  en  8vo.  mayor,  de 
138  paginas.  1859.  12s. 

B 


2  Publications  of  Triibner  fy  Co. 

Ahn.  —  Dr.  ~F.  AHN'S  PRACTICAL  GRAMMAR  OF  THE  GERMAN  LAN- 
GUAGE. A  New  Edition.  By  Dr.  Dawson  Turner,  Head  Master  of  Royal 
Institution  School,  Liverpool.  Crown  8vo.  pp.  cxii.  and  430.  Cloth.  1866. 
5s. 


-NEW,  PRACTICAL,  AND  EASY  METHOD  OP  LEARNING  THE 
GERMAN  LANGUAGE.  By  Dr.  F.  Ahn.  First  ai  d  Second  Course.  Bound  in  oue 
vol.  l'2mo.  cloth,  pp.  86  and  120.  1866.  3*. 

Ahn,  —  KEY  to  Ditto.     12mo.  sewed,  pp.  40.     8d. 

Ahn.  —  MANUAL  OF  GERMAN  AND  ENGLISH  CONVERSATIONS,  or  Vade 
Mecum  for  English  Travellers.  12mc:  cloth,  T>p.  1  H).  1861.  2s.  Qd. 

Ahn.  —  GERMAN  COMMERCIAL  LETTER  WRITER,  -.nth  Explanatory 
Introductions  in  English,  and  an  Index  of  Words  in  French,  and  English.  By 
Dr.  F.  AHN.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  248.  1861.  4s.  &d. 

Ahn,  —  NEW,  PRACTICAL,  AND  EASY  METHOD  OF  LEARNING  THE  FRENCH 
LANGUAGE.  By  T..  T  *V.  First  Course  and  Second  Course,  12mo.  cloth, 
each  Is.  6d.  The  Two  Courses  in  one  'vol.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  114  and  170. 
1865.  3s.  4 

Ahn,  —  NEW,  PRACTICAL,  AND  EASY  METHOD  OF  LEARNING  THE  FRENCH 
LANGUAGE.  Third  Course,  containing  a  French  Reader,  with  Notes  and 
Vocabulary.  By  H.  "W.  Ehrlich.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  125.  1866. 
Is.  Qd. 

Ahn.  —  MANUAL  OF  FRENCH  AND  ENGLISH  CONVERSATIONS,  FOR  THE 
USE  OF  SCHOOLS  AND  TRAVELLERS.  By  Dr.  F.  Ahn.  12mo.,  pp.  viii.  and  200. 
Cloth.  1862.  2s.  6d. 

Ahn.  —  FRENCH  COMMERCIAL  LETTER  WRITER,  on  tlie  same  Plan. 
By  Dr.  F.  Ahn.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  228.  1866.  4s.  6d. 

Ahn,  —  NEW,  PRACTICAL,  AND  EASY  METHOD  OF  LEARNING  THE 
ITALIAN  LANGUAGE.  By  Dr.  F.  Ahn.  First  and  Second  Course.  12mo.  pp.  198. 
1863.  3s.  6d. 

Ahn,—  KEY  to  Ditto.-    12rno.  sewed,  pp.  22.     1865.     Is. 

Ahn.  —  NEW,  PRACTICAL,  AND  EASY  METHOD  ^OF  LEARNING  THE  DUTCH 
LANGUAGE,  being  a  complete  Grammar,  with  Selections.  By  Dr.  F.  Ahn.  12mo. 
cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  166.  1862.  3s.  6d. 

Ahn.  —  AIIN'S  COURSE.  Latin  Grammar  for  Beginners.  By  W. 
Ihne,  Ph.  D.  12mo.  pp.  vi.  and  184,  cloth.  1864.  3s. 

Alcock.  —  A  PRACTICAL  GRAMMAR  OF^  THE  JAPANESE  LANGUAGE. 
By  Sir  Rutherford  Alcock,  Resident  British  Minister  at'  Jeddo.  4to.  pp.  62, 
sewed,  18s. 

Alcock.  —  FAMILIAR  DIALOGUES  IN  JAPANESE,  with.  English,  and 
French  Translations,  for  the  Use'  of  Students.  By  Sir  Rutherford  Alcock.  8vo. 
pp.  viii.  and  40,  sewed.  1863.  5s.  <* 

Alger.  —  A  CRITICAL  HISTORY  OF  THE  DOCTRINE  OF  A  FUTURE  LIFE. 
With  a  complete  Bibliography  of  the  Subject.  By  William  Rounseville  Alger. 
•itb.  Edition,  thoroughly  ityiseL  '  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  x.  and  914  1866.  18s. 

Alger.  —  THE  FRIENDSHIPS  OF  WOMEN  ,  By  William  Rounseville 
Alger.  12mo  ,cloth,  pp.  xvi.  and  416.  1867.  8s. 


Publications  of  Trubnyr  $  Co,  *     3 

, — THE  GENIUS  OF  SOLITUDE.    'The  Solitudes  of  Nature  and  of 
'  Man,  or  the  LonelinesfA)f  Human  Life.     By  Rev.  W.  R.  Alger.     IGmo.  pp.  412, 
jloth.     1867.     9*. 

Alger. — THE  POETRY  OF  THE  .ORIENT.  By  William  Rounseville 
Alger.  12mo.,  pp.  xii.  and  337^  cloth.  1867.  9s.  '  0 

Allibone,-j-A  CRITICAL*  DICTION  ART  OF  ENGLISH  LITERATURE,  AND 
BRITISH  AND  AMERICAN  AUTHORS,  from  the  Earliest  Accounts  to  the  Middle  of 

•  the  Nineteenth  Century.  By  S.  Austin  Allibone.  Vol.  I.  royal  8vo.  pp.  1,006, 
cloth.  1859.  ,£1  4s.  (Vol.  II.  nearly  ready).  T 

AlthauS, — A  TREATISE  ON  JV^EDiciDi  ELECTRICITY,  THEORETICAL  AND 
PRACTICAL.  By  JSliuS  Allhaus,  M.D.  8vo.  pp.  viii.  and  352.  1859.  7s.  Gd. 

AlthailS* — THE JiB*s  OF  EUROPE.     By  Julius  Althaus,  M.D.     8vo. 

cloth,  pp-  516-  ^1862.     As.  •  % 

"  This  is  decidedly  the  most  elaborate  and  Complete  work  on  mineral  Tjters  which  has 
hitlterto  appeared  in  the  English  language." — British  Medical  Journal.       Jr^ 

A  book  of  research  and  authority,  written  by  one  wh^KawSsWRjy  Piaster  of  his  subject, 


and  which  jve  can  confidently  rec  mment  to  the  reader." — Lancet. 
**•  '•  The  book  is  well  timed  and  \yell  done." — Cornhill  Mag. 

.     "We  can  recommend  Dr.JUtbans's  work  as  by  far  the  best  that  has  been  written  in  our 
language,  with  a  medical  object  in  view." — Athenaeum. 

Althaus. — ON  THE  VALUE  OR  GALVANISM  IN  THE  TREATMENT  OF  PARA- 
LYSIS, NEURALGIA,  Loss  OF  YOICE,  RHEUMATISM,  AND  OTHER  DISEASES.  By 
Julius  Althaus,  M.D.  Fourtl  Edition.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  236.  1866. 
3s.  Gd.  ' 

American  Bible  TJiilon,—  REVISED  VERSION  OF  THE  HOLY  SCRIPTURES, 
viz.: — 

BOOK  OF  JOB.     The  common  English  Version,  the  Hebrew  Text,  and  the  Re- 
vised Version.     With  an  Introduction  and  Notes.     By  T.  J.  Conant.     4to. 

boards,  pp.  xxx.  and  166.     1859.     7s.  Gd. 
GOSPEL  BY  MATTHEW.     The  Common  English  Version  and  the  Received  Greek 

Text ;  with  a  Revised  Version,  and  Critical  and  Philological  Notes.     By  T.  J. 

Conant,  D.D       Pp.  xl.  and  172.     "With  an  APPENDIX  on  the  Meaning  and 

Use  of  Baptizein.     Pp.  106.     4to.  boards.     8s. 
GOSPEL  ACCORDING  TO  MARK.     Translated  from  the  frreek,  on  the  Basis  of  the 

Common  English  Version,  with  Notes.    4to.  boards,  pp.  vi.  and  134.  1858.  5s. 
GOSPEL  BY  JOHN.     Ditto.     4to.  boards,  pp.  xv.  and  172.     1859.     5s. 
ACTS  OF  THE  APOSTLES.     Ditto.     4to.  boards,  pp.  iv.  and  224.     1858.     6s. 
EPISTLE  TO  THE  EPHESIANS.    Ditto.    4to.  boards,  pp.  vi.  and  40.    1857.    3s.  Gd. 
EPISTLES  OF  PAUL  TO  THE  THESSALONIANS.     Ditto.     4to.  boards,  pp.  viii.  and 

74.     1858.     4s.  Gd. 
EPISTLES  OF  PAUL  TO  TIMOTHY  AND  TITUS.     Ditto.     4to.  boards,  pp.  vi.  and  78. 

1860.     2*.  Gd. 
EPISTLE  OF  PAUL  TO  PHILEMON;,  Ditto.     4to.  sewed,  pp.  404.     Is.  Gd.     12mo. 

cloth,  2s.     1860. 

EPISTLE  TO  THE  HEBREWS.     4to.  boards,  pp.  iv.  and  90.     1857.     4.s. 
SECOND  EPISTLE  OF  PETER,  EPISTLES  OF  JOHN  AND  JUDE,  AND  THE  REVELATION. 

Ditto.     4to.  pp.  254.     5s.  •  • 

THE  NEW  TESTAMENT  w  0011   LORD   AND   SAVIOUR,  JESUS  CHRIST.      Forty- 
fifth  Thousand.     32mo.  cloth,g)p.  468.     1866.     Is.  Gd. 
Ditto.         Thirty-eight!?  Thousand.     12nio.  cloth,  pp.  4$8.  1866.  4s.  Gd. 
Ditto.         Demy  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  488.     1866.  ^  Is.  Gd. 

American  Bible  Union. — IL  Nuovo  TES|'AJ?ENTO.  Traduizione  dal 
Greco  per  Cura  di  G.  Achilli.*  Post  Svo.  roan,  p"p.  343.  New  York,  1854. 
7s.  Gd.  •  J 


4  Publications  of  Tr'dbner  ty  Co. 

Americans  (The)  Defended.  By  an  American.  Being  a  Letter-  to 
one  of  his  Countrymen  in  Europe,  in  answer  to  inquirit ;,  concerning  the  late  im- 
putations of  dishonour  upon  the  United  States.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  38.  1844.  J.«. 

Anderson. — PRACTICAL  MERCANTILE  CORRESPONDENCE.     A  collection 

pf  Modern  Letters  of  Business,  with  Xotes,  Critical  and  Explanatory,  and  an 
Appendix,  containing  a  Dictionary  of  Commprcial.  Technicalities,  pro  forma 
Invoices,  Account  Sales,  Bills  of  Lading,  and  Bills  of  Exchange ;  ilso  an  ex- 
planation of  the  German  Chain  Rule.  17th  Edition,  revised  and  enlarged.  By 
William  Anderson.  12mb.  cloth,  pp.  288.  1866;  5s. 

Anderson  and  Tllgnran.—  MERCANT^IE  CORRESPONDENCE,  containing  a 

collection  of  Commercial  Letters,  in  rortuguose  a?^d  English,  with  their  trans- 
lation on  opposite  pages,  for  the  use  of  Business  Men  and,of  Students  in  either 
of  the  Languages,  treating  in  modern  style  of  the  s^stf'm  of  business  in  the 
'     principal  Commercial  Cities  of  the  World.    Accompai'Ied  by  prV  forma  Accounts, 
Sales,  Invoices,  Bills  of  Lading,  Draft?  etc.     With  an  Introduction  ana  copious 
•  Notes.     By  -»T-illiam  Anderson  and  James  E.  Tugman.     12mo.  clotfh,  pp.  xi.  and 
193.     1867.     6s:  .. 

Andrews. — A  DICTIONARY  or  THE  HAWAIIAN  LANGUAGE,  to  which  if 
appended  an  English-Hawaiian  Vocabulary,  and  a  Chronological  Table  of  re- 
markable Events.  By  Lorrin  Andrews.  Svo,  cloth,  pp.  xvi.  and  560.  Hono- 
lulu, 1865.  £1  11s.  6d. 

\ 

AnglidlS. — A  YOICE  FROM  THE  MOTHERLAND,  answering  Mrs.  H. 
Beecher  Stowe's  Appeal.  By  Civis  Anglicus.  vo.  sewed,  pp.  46.  1863.  Is. 

Anthropological  Review,  THE.  Vol.  I.  1863.  8ve^  cloth,  pp.  xxxiv. 
and  499.  18s. 

Ditto  Ditto,  Vol.  II.     1864.     8vo.  cloth,  pp.  347  and  ccxcii.     18*.. 

Ditto  Ditto,     „    III.  1865.         Ditto      pp.  378  and  cccxviii.     18s. 

Ditto  Ditto,     „    IV.    1866.         Ditto       pp.  408  and  ccxiv.     18*. 

Ditto  Ditto,     „    V.      1867.         Ditto      pp.  376  and  cclxxii.     18s. 

Anthropological  Society. — INTRODUCTORY  ADDRESS  ON  THE  STUDY  OF 
ANTHROPOLOGY,  delivered  before  the  Anthropological  Society  of  London,  on  the 
24th  of  February.  ByJames  Hunt,  Ph.  D.,  F.S.A.,  F.B..S.L.,  President.  Post 
8vo.  sewed,  pp.  20.  1863.  6d. 

Anthropological  Society,—  MEMOIRS  read  before  the  Anthropological 
Society  of  London,  1863—1864.  In  one  vol.,  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  542.  21*. 
CONTENTS.— I.  On  the  Negro's  Place  in  Nature.  By  James  Hunt,  Ph.  D..  F.S. A.,  F.R.S.L., 
F.A.S.L.,  President  of  the  Anthropological  Society  of  London.— II.  On  the  Weight  of  the  Brain 
in  the  Negro.  By  Thomas  B.  Peacock,  M.D.,  F.R.C.P.,  F.A.S.L.— III.  Observations  on  the  Past 
and  Present  Populations  of  the  New  World.  By  W.  Bollaert,  Esq.,  F.A.S.L.— IV.  On  the  '''wo 
Principal  Forms  of  Ancient  British  and  Gaulish  Skulls.  By  J.  Thurnam,  Esq.,  M.D.,  F.  A.S.L. 
With  Lithographic  Plates  and  Woodcuts.— V.  Introduction  to  the  Palaeography  of  America; 
or,  Observations  on  Ancient  Picture  and  Figurative  Writing  in  the  New  World ;  on  the 
Fictitious  Writing  in  North  America ;  on  the  Quipu  of  the  Peruvians,  and  Examination  of 
Spurious  Quipus  By  William  Bollaert,  Esq..  F.A.S  JJ. — VI.— Viti  and  its  Inhabitants.  By  W. 
T.  Pritchard.  Esq.,  F.R.G.S.,  F. A.S.L. —VII.  On  the  Astronomy  of  the  Red  Man  of  the  'New 
World.  By  W.  Bollaert,  Esq.,  F.A.S. L. — VIII.  The  Neanderthal  Skull:  its  peculiar  formation 
considered  anatomically.  By  -T.  Barnard  Davis,  M.U.,  F.S. A.,  F.A.S. L. — IX.  On  the  Discovery 
of  large  Kist-vaens  on  the  "  Muckle  Heog,"  in  the  Island  of  Unst  (Shetland),  containing  Urns 
of  Chk>ritic  Schist.  By  George  E.  Roberts,  Esq.,  F.G.S.,  Hon.  Sec.  A.S.L.  With  Notes  on  the 
Hurran  Remains.  By  C.  Carter  Blake,  Esq.,  F.A.S. L.,  F.G.S. — X.  Notes  on  some  Facts  con- 
nected with  the  Dahomau.  By  Capt.  Rich?-d  P.  Burtin,  V.P.A.  S.L  —XI.  On  Certain  Anthro- 
pological Matters  connected  with  the  South  Sea  Isianders  (the  Samoans).  By  W.  T.  Pritchard, 
Esq.,  F.R.G.S.,  F.A.S. L.— XII.  On  the  Phallic  Worship  of  India.  By  Edward  Sellon.— XIII. 
The  History  of  Anthropology.  "By  T  BJndvshe,  M.A.,  F.A.S.L.,  Vice-president  A.S.L.— XIV. 
On  the  Two  Principal  Forms  of  Anc!  ;nt  British  and  Gaulish  Skulls.  Part  II.  with  Appendix 
of  Tables  of  Measurement  By^Toh/:  Thurnam,  M.D,  F.S.A..  F.A.S. L.— APPENDIX.  On  the 
Weight  of  the  Brain  and  Capacit  of  the  Cranial  Cavity  of  the  Negro.  By  Thomas  B.  Peacock, 
M.D.,  F.R.C.F.,  F.  A.S.L. 


Publications  of  Trubner  §  Co.  »     5 

Anthropological  Society, — MEMOIRS  read  before  the  Anthropological 
'  Society  of  London,  ISJbo— 1866.  Vol.  II.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  x.  and  464.  1866. 

»Jft 

CONTENTS. — I.  The  Difference  between  the  Larynx  |f  the  White  Man  and  Negro.  By  Dr. 
Gibb  —  II.  Ou  the  Dervishes  of  tho  East.  «By  Arminius  Vambe'ry.  —  III.  Origin  and  Customs 
of  the  Galliuas  of  Sierra  Leone,  liy  J.  Meyer  Harris. — IV.  On  the  Permanence  ot  Anthropo- 
logical Types.  By  Dr.  Ueddoe  — tf.  The  Maya  Alphabet.  By  Wm.  Bollaert.— VI.  J'he 
People  of  Spjin.  By  H.  J.  C.  Beifyan.-*VII.  Genealogy  and  Anthropology.  By  G.  M.  Marshall. — 
VIII.  Simious  Skulls.  By  C.  Carter  Blake. — IX.  A  New  Goniometer.  By  Dr  Paul  Broca  — 
X.  Anthropology  of  the  Now  World.  By  U'm.  Bollaert  — XI.  On  the  Psychical  Characteristics 
*>f  the  English.  By  Luke  Owen  I'fee.— XII.  Iconography  of  Vie  Skull.  By  \V.  U.  Wesley.— 
XIII.  Orthographig  Projection  of  the  Skull.  By  A.  Higgins.  — XIV.  On  Hindu  Neology.  By 
Major  S.  R.  1.  Owen.— XV.  The  1%-ocbs  of  Orkney.  By  George  P(Strie.— XVI.  Ancient  Caith.- 
ness  Remains.  By  Jos.  AndersorJ — XVII.  Deitaption  of  Living  Microcephale.  By  Dr.  Shortt. 
— XV1JI.  Notes  on  an  lierr^aphfcdite.  By  Captain  Burton. — XIX.  Ou  the  Sacti  I'uja.  By  E. 
Sellou.»XX.  Resemblaifljo  of  Inscriptions  on  British  and  American  Rocks.  By  Dr.  Seemauii. 
—XXI.  S^rility  of  the  UVioft  of  White  and  Black«Races.  By  R.  B.  N.  Walker.— XXII.  Anal- 
ogous Forms  of  EJMft*~implranents.  By  H.  M.  Westropp. — XXIII.  Explorations  iu  Unst, 
Brassay^lid  Zetlfmd.  By  DrT  Hunt,  President.— XXIV.  Report  of  Expedition  to  Zetland. 
By  Ralph  Tate.— XXV.  The  Head-forms  of  tie  West  of  Engfand.  By  Dr.  Beddoe.— XXVI. 
Explorations  in, the  Kirkhead  Cave  at  Ulverstone.  By  J.  P.  Morris. — XXVI' *»)n  the'  Influence 
of  PeSt.on  the  Human  Body.  By  Dr.  Hunt. — XXVIII.  On  Stone  InggririHrnis  iu  the  Island  of 
Brassay.  By  Dr.  Hunt.— XXIX.  The  I*istory  of  AndeiWRvJery.  jJy  Dr.  John  Bower.— 
«>XXX.  Blood  Relationship  in  Marriage.  By  Dr.  Arthur  Mitchell. 

t        f 

Anthropology. — ANTHROPOLOGY  AND  THE  BRITISH  ASSOCIATION.  Ee- 
printed  from  "The  Anthropological  Keview  for  October,  1865.  Post  8vo.  sewed, 
pp.  22.  1865.  6fl?.  * 

Anthropological  Society, —  ANNIVERSARY  ADDRESSES,  1863,  1864,  and 
1865.  'Each  Is.  » 

Apel, — PROSE  SPECIMENS  FOR  TRANSLATION  INTO  GERMAN,  with  copious 
Vocabularies  and  Explanations.  By  H.  Apel.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  246. 
London,  1862.  4s.  Qd. 

'  AragO. — LES  ARISTOCRATIES.  A  Comedy  in  Verse.  By  Etienne 
Arago.  Edited,  with  English  Notes  and  Notice  on  Etienne  Arago,  by  the  Rev. 
P.  H.  Brette,  B.D.,  Head  Master  of  the  French  School,  Christ's  Hospital, 
Examiner  in  the  University  of  London.  Fcap.  8vo.  pp.  244,  cloth.  1868.  4s. 

Asher, — ON  THE  STUDY  OF  MODERN  LANGUAGES  in  general,  and  of 
the  English  Language  in  particular.  An  Essay.  By  .David  Asher,  Ph.  D.  12mo. 
cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  80.  1859.  2s. 

Asiatic  Society, — JOURNAL  OF  THE  EOYAL  ASIATIC  SOCIETY  OF  GREAT 
BKITAIN  AND  IRELAND,  from  the  Commencement  to  1863.  First  Series,  complete 
in  20  Vols.  8vo.,  with  many  Plates.  Price  £10 ;  or  in  single  Numbers,  aa 
follows: — Nos.  1  to  14,  6s.  each;  No.  15,  2  Parts,  4s.  each;  No.  16,  2  Parts, 
4s.  each ;  No.  17,  2  Parts,  4s.  each;  No.  18,  6s.  These  18  Numbers  form  Yols. 
I.  to  IX. — Vol.  X.,  Part  1,  op.;  Part  2,  5s.;  Part  3,  os.— Vol.  XL,  Part  1,  6s.; 
Part  2  not  published.— Vol.  XH.,  2  Parts,  6s.  each.— Vol.  XIII.,  2  Parts,  6s. 
each.— Vol.  XIV.,  Part  1,  5*.;  Part  2  not  published.— Vol.  XV..,  Part  1,  6s.; 
Part  2,  with  Maps,  10s.— Vol.  XVI.,  2  Parts,  6s.  each.— Vol.  XVII. ,  2  Parts,  6s. 
each.— Vol.  XVIII.,  2  Parts,  6s.  each.— VoL  XIX.,  P,arts  1  to  4,  16s.— Vol.  XX., 
3  Parts,  4s.  each. 

Asiatic  Society,-  JOURNAL  OF  THE  EOYAL  ASIATIC  SOCIETY  OF  GREAT 
BRITAIN  AND  IRELANI?.  New  Series.  "\*ol.  I.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  32  and  490.  16s. 
CONTENTS. — I.  Vajra-chhedika',  the  "  Kin  Kong  King,"  or  Diarfcond  Sutra.  Translated  from 


Financial,  and  Military  Statistics  of  Ceylon.    By ^3.  R.  Power,  Esq. — ^Contribution!  to  a' 


MajCr-General  Sir  H.  Rawliuson,  K.C.B.,  Director  K.A.^l  —  X.  Translations  of  Three  Copper- 
plate Inscriptions  of  the  Fourth  Century  A  D.,  and  Notices  of  the  Chalukya  aud  Gurjjara 
Dynasties.  By  Professor  J.  Dowson.  Staff  College,  Sandhurst.  —  XI.  Yam*  and  the  Doctrine  of 


6      i  Publications  of  Trilbner  fy  Co. 

Knowledge  of  the  Vedic  Theogony  and  Mythology.  By  J.  Muir,  D.C.L.,  LL.D.—  VI.  A  Tabr  I'ar 
List  of  Original  Works  and  Translations,  published  by  the  late  Dutch  Government  of  Ceylon 
at  their  Printing  Press  at  Colombo.  Compiled  by  Mr.  Mat.  P.  J.yndaatje,  of  Colombo.  —  VII. 
Assyrian  and  Hebrew  Chronology  compared,  with  a  view  of  showing  the  extent  to  which  the 
Hebrew  Chronology  of  Ussher  must  be  modified,  in  conformity  with  the  Assyrian  Canon,  iiy 
J.  W.  Bosauquet,  Esq.  —  VIII.  On  the  existing  Dictionaries"  of  the  MalSy  Language.  By  Dr. 
H.  N.  van  der  Tuuk  -j-IX,  Bilingual  Readings  :  Cuneiform  and  Phoenician.  Notes  on  some 
Tablets  in  the  British  Muse'im.  containing  Bilingual  Legends  (Assyrian  and  Phoenician").  By 

of  Three  Copper- 
ya aud  Gurjjara 
d  the  Doctrine  of 
a  Future  Life,  according  to  the  Rig-Yajur-,and  Atharva-Vedas.    By  J.  Muir,  Esq..  D.C.L.,  LL.D. 

—  XII.  On  the  Jyotisha  Observation  of  the  Place  of  theCo!\ires,  and  the  Date  derivable  from 
it.     By  William  D.  Whitney,  Esq.,  Professor  of  Sanskrit  in  Yale  College,  few  Haven,  U.S.  — 
Note  on  the  preceding  Article.    By  Sir  Edwarl  Colebrooke^Bart.,  M.P.,  President  R.A.S.  — 
XIII.  Progress  of  the  Vedic  Religion  towards  iibstract  Conceptions  of  the  Deity.     By  J.  Muir, 
Esq.,  D.C.L.,  LL.D.—  XIV.  Brief  Notes  on  the  Age  and  Authenticity  of  <vhe  Work  of  Aryabhata, 
Yarahamihira,  Br^hmagupta,  Bhattotpala,  and  Bhaskaracbarya.     By,"?r.  Bhau  Oaji,  Hoaorary 
Member  R.A.S.—  XV.  Outlines  of  a  Gran-invar  of  the  Malagasy  Lang-taa-e.     By  H.  JJ   Van  der 
Tuuk.  —  XVI.  On  the  Identity  of  Xaudrames  and  Krananda.     Py  Edwarcf^horaas,  Esq. 

Vol.  II.     In  Two  Partj."   pp.  522.    (  Price  16*. 

CONTENTS.  —  I/  '^ptributions  to  a  Knowledge  of  Vedic  Theogony  and  Mytholigv.  No.  9.  "By 
J.  Muir,  Esq.  —  II.  J>i\  -nll3"«>ous  Hvmns  from  the  Rig-and  Atharva-Vedas.  By  J.  Muir,  Ksq. 
—III.  Five  Hundred  questions  on  ILK>  Social  Couditiol.  of  'the  Natives  of  Bengal.  Bv  the  Rev. 
J.  Long.—  IV.  Short  account  of  the  "Malay  Manuscripts  belonging  to  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society: 
By  Dr.  H.  N.  Van  der  Tuuk.—  V.  Translation  of  tae  Amitabha  '''Sutra  from  the  Chinese.  By 
the  Rev.  S.  Beal,  Chaplain  Royal  Navy.  —  VI.  The  initial  coinage  of  Bengal.  By  Kdward 
Thomas,  Esq.  —  VII.  Specimens  of  an  Assyrian  Dictionary.  By  Edwin  Norrh.  F.sq.  —  VIII.  On 
the  Relations  of  the  Priests  to  the  other  classes  of  Indian  s'ociety  in  the  Vedic  age.  By  J. 
Muir,  Esq.  —  IX.  On  the  Interpretation  of  the  Veda.  ByViha  same.  -X.  An  Attempt  to  Trans- 
late from  the  Chinese  a  work  known  as  the  Confession«il'?,ervices  of  the  great  compassionate 
Kwan  Yin,  possessing  1,000  hands  and  1,000  eyes.  By  thl  I!ev.  S.  Beal.  Chaplain  Royal  Navy. 

—  XI.  The  Hymns  of  the  Gaupaayanas  and  the  Legend  (i_  Kinsr  Asamati.     By  Professor  Max 
Jluller.  M.A.,    Honorary   Member  Royal    Asiatic  Society.—  XII.   Specimen  Chapters  of   an 
Assyrian  Grammar.    By  the  Rev.  E.  Hin'cks,  D.D.,  Honorary  Member"  Royal  Asiatic  Society. 

Asiatic  Society.  —  TRANSACTIONS  OF  THE  ROYAL  ASIATIC  SOCIETY  OF 
GREAT  BRITAIN  AND  IRELAND.  Complete  in  3  vols.  4to.,  80  Plates  of  Facsimiles, 
etc.,  cloth.  London,  1827  to  1835.  Published  at  £9  5s.;  reduced  to  £1  11*.  6rf. 
The  above  contains  contributions  by  Professor  Wilson,  G  C.  Haughton,  Davis,  Morrison, 

Colebjooke,  Humboldt,  Dora,  Grotefend,  and  other  eminent  oriental  scholars. 

Atharva  VEDAPRATI^AKHYA,  THE,  OR  (^AUNAKIYA  CATURADHYAYIKA. 
Text,  Translation  and  Notes.  By  "William  D.  Whitney,  Professor  of  Sanskrit 
in  Yale  College.  8vo.,  pp.  286.  Boards.  1862.  12*. 

Atkinson.  —  CHANGE  OF  AIR  considered  with  regard  to  Atmospheric 
Pressure  and  its  Electric  and  Magnetic  Concomitants,  in  the  Treatment  of  Con- 
sumption and  Chronic  Disease;  with  a  General  Commentary  on  the  most  Eligible 
Localities  for  Invalids.  By  J.  C.  Atkinson,  M.D.  Crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  viii. 
and  142.  1867.  4*.  6d. 

Atkinson  and  Martineau,  —  LETTERS  ON  THE  LAWS  OF  MAN'S  NATTJKE 
AND  DEVELOPMENT.  By  Henry  George  Atkinson,  F.G.S.,  and  Harriet  Martineau. 
Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xii.  and  390.  1851.  5s. 

Alictores  Sanscriti.  Edited  for  the  Sanskrit  Text  Society,  under  the 
supervision  of  Theodor  Goldstiicker,  Vol.  I.,  containing  the  Jaiminiya-Nyaya- 
Mala-Vistara.  Parts  I.  to  V.,  large  4to.  sewed,  pp.  400.  1863.  10*.  each. 

Allgier.  —  DIANE.  A  Drama  in  Verse.  By  Emile  Augier.  Edited 
with  English  Notes  and  Notice  on  Augier.  By  Theodore  Karcher,  LL.B.,  of 
the7  Royal  Military  Academy  and  the  Uaiveisity  of  '^London.  12n/o.  cloth,  pp. 
xiii.  and  146.  1867.  (2*.  6^. 

Austin.  —  A  PRACTICAL  ^RE/.TESE  on  the  Preparation,  Combination, 
and  Application  of  Calcareous  ,Und  Hydraulic  Limes  and  Cements.  To  which  is 
added  many  useful  Recipes  lor  various  Scientific,  Mercantile,  and  Domestic 
Purposes.  ByJames  G.  Austin,  Architect.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  192.  1862.  5*. 


Publications  of  Triibner  fy  Co.  ,7 

A\fas  I  Hind ;  or,  A  VOICE  FROM  THE  GANGES.     Being  a  Solution  of 
'  the  true  Source  of  Christianity.    By  an  Indian  Officer.    Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xix. 
^.nd  222.     1861.     5s.' 

Baconi,  Francisd,  VERULAMIENSIS  SERMJNES  FIDELES,  sive  interiora 
rerum,  ad  Latinam  orationem  emendatiorem  revocavit  philolcgus  Latinus.     12mo. 
•  cloth,  pp.  xxvi,  and  272.     18?i.  3s.  *       . 

Bader, — THE  NATURAL  AND  MORBID  CHANGES  OF  THE  HUMAN  EYE, 

•  and  their  Treatment.      By,C.  Bader,  Ophthalmic. Assistant- Surgeon  to  Guy's 
Hospital.     Medium  8vo.  cloth  pp.  viii.  and  506.     1868.     16s. 

»  *  * 

Bader, — PLATES  ILLUSTRATING  lira  NATURAL  AND  MORBID  CHANGES 
OF. THE  HUMAN  J^Y:^  By  C.  Bader,  Ophthalmic  Assistant- Surgeon  to  Guy's 
Hospital.  Six  Ch\)nK>-Lithographic  Plates,  each  containing  the  figures  of  six 
Eyos,  and  foir;  _bitnogn|)hed  Plates  with  figures  of  Instruments.  With  an  ex- 
planfftory  text  of  32  pages.  Medium  8vo.  in  a  Portfolio.  21s. 
%  Price  fo£  Text  and  Atlas  taken  together,  32s.  t 

*%  V*"* 

Baital  .Pachisi    (The)  ;  OR  T^ENTY-FIVE**??^'.^  "  ^  A  DEMON.      A 

•  New  Edition  of  the  Hiri^i  text,  with  each  word  expressed  in  the  Hindustani 
character  immediately»under  the  corresponding  word  in  the  NCigari ;  and  with  a 
perfectly  literal  English  interlinear  translation,  accompanied  hy  a  free  translation 
in  English  at  the  foot  of  each jpage,  and  explanatory  notes.      By  W.  Burckhardt 
Barker,  M.H.A.S.,  Oriental  interpreter  and  Professor  of  the  Arabic,  Turkish, 
Persian,  and  Hindustani  languages  at  Eton.     Edited  by  E.  B.  Eastwick,  F.R.S., 
Professor  of  Oriental  languajbs,  and  Librarian  in  the  East  India  College.      8vo., 
pp.  viii.  and  370. .  .Cloth.     1855.     12s. 

Baker, — LIPIDHARA.     A  Murathi  Primer,  compiled  expressly  for  the 

use  of  accepted  candidates  for  the  Bombay  Civil  Service,  by  F.  P.  Baker 
formerly  Superintendent  of  Government  Murathi  and  Canarese  Schools  in  the 
Bombay  Presidency,  and  lithographed  under  his  supervision.  8vo.,  pp.  60,  sewed. 
'1868.  5s. 

Ballantyne. — ELEMENTS  OF   HINDI   AND  BRAJ  BHAKHA  GRAMMAR, 

Compiled  for  the  use  of  the  East  India  College  at  Haileybury.  By  James  K. 
Ballautyne.  Second  Edition.  Crown  8vo.,  pp.  38.  ,  Cloth.  1868.  5s. 

Barlow, — ERANCESCA  DA  RIMINI,  HER  LAMENT  AND  VINDICATION; 
with,  a  brief  notice  of  the  Malatesti,  e'l  Mastin  Vecchio,  e'l  miovo  da  Verrucchio. 
By  Henry  Clark  Barlow,  M.D.,  Academico  Correspondente  de  Quiritti  di  Roma 
etc.,  etc.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  52.  1859.  Is.  6d. 

Barlow, — IL  GRAN  BIFIUTO,  WHAT  IT  WAS,  WHO  MADE  IT,  AND  now 
FATAL  TO  DANTE  ALLIGHIEUI.  A  dissertation  on  Verses  58  to  65  of  the  Third 
Canto  of  the  Inferno.  By  Hi  C.  Barlow,  M.D.,  Author  of  "  Francisca  da 
Kimini,  her  Lament  and  Vindication";  " Letteratura  Dantesca,"  etc.,  etc.,  etc. 
8vo.  sewed,  pp.  22.  1862.  Is. 

Barlow. — IL  CONTE  UGOLINO  E  L'ARCivEsctfvo  RUGGIERI,  a  Sketch 
from  the  Pisan  Chronicles.  By  H.  C.  Barlow,  M.D.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  24.  1862. 

.        '      . 

Barlow, — THE  YOUNG  KING  AND  BERTBAND  «DE  BORN.  By  H.  C. 
Barlow,  M.D.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  35.  1862.  ^s.  , 

Barnstorff. — A  KEY  TO  SHAKSPEARE'S  ^OIJNETS.  By  D.  Barnstorff. 
Translated  from  the  German  by  T.  J.  Graham.  8vo.  cloth,  np.  216.  1862.  6s. 


8      <  Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co. 

Bartlett. — DICTIONARY  OF  AMERICANISMS.    A  Glossary  of  Words  a;Ad 

Phrases  colloquially  used  in  the  United  States.  Byo  John  Russell  Bartlett. 
Second  Edition,  considerably  enlarged  and  improved.  1  vol.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xxjyi. 
and  524.  1860.  16s.  c.  L 

Barton. — THE  RA-ALITY,  BUT  NOT  THE'DURATION  OF  FUTURE  PUNISH- 
•     MJXT,  is  REVEALED.     An  Appeal  to  Scripture^    By  John  Barton,  M.A.     8vo. 
sewed,  pp.  40.     1866.     Is.  &d.  « 

Beal. — THE  TRAVELS  OF*  THE  BUDDHIST  PI-LGRIM  FAH  HIAN,  trans-' 

lated  from  the  Chinese(.  with  Xotes  and  Prolegomena.  By  S.  Beal,  a  Chaplain 
in  II.  M.'s  Fleet,  a  member  of  the  Roy^F.Asiatic  Society,  aud  formerly  of  Trinity 
College,  Cambridge.  Crown 8vo.  '  'f-  ,,  , 

Beeston.— THE  TEMPORALITIES  OF  THE  ESTAB LISHE(). CHURCH  ^s  they 
are  and  as  they  might  be ;  collected  from  authentic  Public  RecoiVs.  By  William 
Beeston.  8vo.  sewed,  prp:  36.  1850.  rl«. 

,!/  .    * 

Beigel. — THE  -k-Liy^:  VTTON  AND  CONFESSION  OF  CERTAIN  WITCHES 
AT  CHELMSFORD,  ix  THE  COUXTY  OF  ESSEX,  ON  THE  26TH  DAY  OF  JUE'Y,  15.5(3. 
Communicated  and  Prefaced  by  Hermann  Bsigel,  '-Mi'D.  Small  4to.,  pp.  49. 
1864.  10s.  6d. 

Bell, — VISIBLE  SPEECH.  The  Science  of  Universal  Alphabetics  ; 
or,  Self-Interpreting  Physiological  Letters,  for  ti-je  Writing  of  all  Languages  in 
One  Alphabet.  Illustrated  by  Tables,  Diagrams,)  »nd  Examples.  By  Alexander 
Melville  Bell,  F.E.I. S.,  F.R.S.S.A.,  Professor  of  Vocal  Physiology,  Lecturer  on 
Elocution  in  University  College,  London  ;  Author  of  "  Principles  of  Speech  and 
Cure  of  Stammering, y  "  Elocutionary  Manual,"  "  Standard  Elociitionist." 
"Emphasized  Liturgy,"  "Reporter's  Manual,"  etc.,  etc.  Inaugural  Edition. 
4to.  cloth,  pp.  126.  1867.  15s. 

Bell. — ENGLISH  VISIBLE  SPEECH  FOR  THE  MILLION,  for  communicat- 
ing the  Exact  Pronunciation  of  the  Language  to  Xative  or  Foreign  Learners, 
and  for  Teaching  Children  and  illiterate  Adults  to  Read  in  a  few  Days.  By 
Alexander -Melville  Bell,  F.E.I.S.,  F.R.S.S.A.,  Lecturer  on  Elocution  in 
University  College,  London.  4to.  sewed,  pp.  16.  1867.  Is. 

Bell. — THE  ENGLISH  IN  INDIA.  Letters  from  Nagpore.  Written 
in  1857-8.  By  Captain  Evans  Bell.  Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  202.  1859.  5s. 

Bell. — THE  EMPIRE  IN  INDIA  ;  Letters  from  Madras  and  other 
Places.  By  Major  Evans  Bell.  Crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  vi.  and  412.  1864. 
8s.  Qd. 

"  We  commend  the  letters  of  Major  Bell  to  every  friend  of  In  iia.  He  is  not  only  an  ardent 
lover  of  justice  in  the  abstract,  but  he  has  gone  deeply  into  the  questions  which  he  discusses, 
aud  reasons  on  them  with  a  force  of  argument  quito  irtfjsistible," — Athenaeum, 

Bell. — REMARKS  ON  THE  MYSORE  BLUE  BOOK,  with  a  Eew  Words 
to  Mr.  R.  D.  Mangles.  By  Major  Evans  Bell.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  xi.  and  74. 
1866.  2s. 

Bell. — THE  MYSORE  REVERSION.      By  Major  Evans  Bell.     Second 

Edition.  With  Remarks  6n  the  Parliff-mentary'Papers'  rad  a  few  Words  to  Mr. 
R.  D.  Mangles.  8vo.  clrth,  pp.  xvi.  and  292.  London,  1866.  7*.  Gel. 

Bell. — RETROSPECTS  AND  ^?E{."SPECTS  OF  INDIAN  POLICY.  By  Major 
Evans  Bell,  late  of  the  Madsis  (otaff  Corps,  author  of  "  The  Empire  in  India,' ' 
"  The  Mysore  Reversion,"  etc.  Svo.  rj>p.  vi.  and  U44,  cloth,  1868.  10s.  6d. 


Publications  of  Irubner  fy  Co-  '      9 

. — A  DICTIONARY  OF  THE  PUKKHTO  OB  PUKSHTO  LANGUAGE, 

in  which  the  Word*  are  traced    to  their    Sources  in   the  Indian  and  Persian 

t  Languages.      With^i  Reversed  Part,    or   English   and   Pukkhto.       By  Henry 

"Walter  Bellew^Assistant  Surgeon,  Bengal  ^fniy.      Small  4to.,  pp.  356.     1867. 

42s.  «  , 

-Bellew. — A  GRAMMAR  OB^TEE  PUKKHTO  OR  PUKSHTO  LANGI^GE, 
on  a  N$w  and  Improved.  System,  combining  Brevity  with  practical  Utility,  and 
including  Exercises  and  Dialogues,  intended  to  facilitate  the  Acquisition  of 
the  Colloquial.  By  Heiirj*  Walter  Bellew,  Assistant  Surgeon,  Bengal  Army. 
Small  4to.,  jp.  155.  London,  1867.  II.  Is- 

Bellows. — ENGLISH  OUTLINE  VO!I»BULARY  for  the  use  of  Students  of 

the  Chinese,  JapSnedfe,  and  other  Languages.  Arranged  by  John  Bellows.  With 
Notes  on  the  WiT?mg»of  Chinese  with  E^oman  Letters.  By  Professor  Summers, 
King**s  ColleMBfBTOido%  1  vol.  crown  8vo.,  pp.  vi.  and  368,  cloth.  1867.  6s. 

Bsllows. — OUTLINE  DICTIONARY  SDR  THE  usft  OF  MISSIONARIES,  Ex- 

**JLOKBKS,*AND  STUDENTS  OF  LANGUAGE.      By  Max   Miillenxaf .A.,    Taylorian 

Professor  in  the  University  of  Oxford.     With  *f*.L ..;. .TT^^.ibn  on  the  proper  use 

.      of  the   ordinary   English   Alphabet  in  transcribing  Foreign  Languages.      The 

Vocabulary  coinpiled^by  John  Bellows.      Crown  8vo.  limp  morocco,  pp.  xxxi. 

*  and  368.     1867.     7s.  6d. 

• 

Bellows. — Tous  LES  VERPKS.  Conjugations  of  all  the  Verbs  in  the 
French  and  English  Langupjfes.  By  John  Bellows.  Eevised  by  Professor  Bel- 
jame,  B.A.,  LL.B.  of  the  "University  of  Paris,  and  Official  Interpreter  to  the 
Imperial  Court,  and  George'B.  Strickland,  late  Assistant  French  Master,  Royal 
Naval  School,  Lcifdon.  Also  a  New  Table  of  Equivalent  Values  of  French  and 
English  Money,  Weights,  and  Measures.  32mo.  sewed,  76  Tables.  1867.  1*. 

Bellows. — THE  NEW  DICTIONARY  OF  THE  FRENCH  AND  ENGLISH 
LANGUAGES,  showing  both  divisions  on  the  same  page,  distinguishing  the  genders 
at  sight  by  different  types,  and  giving  Conjugations  of  all  the  Irregular  Verbs  in 
French,  each  Irregular  Preterite  and  Past  Participle,  and  the « accent  of  evesy 
word  in  English,  the  respective  Prepositions  to  be  used,  etc.  By  John  Bellows, 
Gloucester.  Revised  and  corrected  by  Professor  Beljame,  B.A.  and»LL.B.  of  the 
University,  Official  Interpreter  to  the  Imperial  Court,  Paris ;  G.  Beauchamp 
Strickland,  late  French  Preceptor  at  the  Royal  Naval  School,  London.  Dedi- 
cated by  special  permission  to  Prince  Louis  Lucien  Bonaparte.  [In  the  Press. 

Bellows. — Two  DAYS'  EXCURSION  FROM  GLOUCESTER  TO  LLANTHONY 
ABBEY  AND  THE  BLACK  MOUNTAINS.  By  John  Bellows.  Fcap.  8vo.  pp.  32 
sewed,  Illustrated.  1868.  Qd. 

Benedix. — DER  VETTER.  Comedy  in  Three  Acts.  By  Roderich 
Benediy.  With  Grammatical  and  Explanatory  Notes  by  F.  Weinmann,  German 
Master  at  the  Royal  Institution  School,  Liverpool,  and  G.  Zimmermann,  Teacher 
of  Modern  Languages.  Post  8vo.,  pp.  128,  cloth.  1863.  2s.  6d. 

Benfey. — A  PRACTICAL  GRAMMAR  OF  THE  SANSKRIT  LANGUAGE,  for 
the  use  of  Early  Students.  By  Theodor  Benfey,  Professor  of  Sanskrit  in  the 
University  of  Giittingen.  Second,  revised1  and  enlarged,  edition.  Royal  8vo., 
pp.  viii.  and  296,  clothfc  1868.  10s.  Qd. 

Benisch..— TRAVELS  rfjF  RAJBI  PET^.CHIA  OF  KATISBON  :  who,  fti  the 
latter  end  of  the  twelfth  century,  visited  Poland,  S.ussia,  Little  Tartary,  the 
Crimea,  Armenia,  Assyria,  Syria,  the  Holy»L^nd,  §nd  Greece.  Translated  from 
Hebrew,  and  published  together  with  the  ori§lnai*on  opposite  pages.  By  Dr.  A. 

•  Benisch ;  with  Explanatory  IJo|;es,  by  the  Tnmsl»tor  and  William  F.  Ainsworth, 
Esq.,  F.S.A.,  F.G.S.,  F.R.G.S.    12mo.  ctyth,  pp.  vii.  and  10(*     1856.     5s. 


10  Publications  of  Triibner  Sf  Co. 

Benjamin, — SPEECH  OF  HON.  J.  P.  BENJAMIN,  of  Louisiana,  on  the 
Eight  of  Secession,  delivered  in  the  Senate  of  the  United  States,  Dec.  31st, 

1860.  Royal  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  16.     1860.     Is. 

< 

Benjlimea, — GTBR,\LTAR  TO  SPAIN  ;  or,  the  Important  Question  of  the 
Cession  of  that  Fortress  hy  England,  as  recency  brought  before  the  Spanish 
Public.  Being  an  Accurate  Translation  of  a  PalftphleL  just  published  ?t  Madrid, 
and  written  by  Nicolas  Diaz  Benjumea,  Esq.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  92.  1863. 
Is.  6^. 

Bentham. — THEORY  CF  LEGISLATION,..  By  Jeronay  Bentliam.  Trans- 
lated from  the  French  of  Etienne  D'ufnont  ^y  Jfy.  Hildreth.  Post  8vo.,  pp. 
xv.  and  472.  Cloth.  1864.  7s.  6d. 

Bentham. — ANALYSIS  OF  JEREMY  BENTHAM'S  THEORY  cs.  .LEGISLATION. 
By  G.  W.  H.  Fletcher,  LJ..B.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  ix.  and  86.  18tl.  2s:  n,d. 

Bethime. — EAK.V  LOST,  EARLY  SAVED;  or,  Consolation  for  JBe- 
reaved  Parents.  By  the  j.\,ev.'  Jeorge  "W.  Bethune,  D.D.,  LL.D.,  of  New  York, 
Author  of  "  Lectures  on  the  Heidelberg  Catechism,"  ,^tc.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  A. 
Pope,  late  of  Leamington.  In  1  vol.  Crown  8vo.  oloth,  pp.  xii.  and  173. 
1866.  3s. 

Beunnann, — VOCABULARY  OF  THE  TIGRE  LANGUAGE.  Written  down 
by  Moritz  von  Beunnann.  Published  with  a  Grammatical  Sketch.  By  Dr.  A. 
Merx,  of  the  University  of  Jena.  pp.  viii.  and  71',  cloth.  1868.  3s.  6d. 

Bible, — THE  HOLY  BIBLE.  First  division,  the  Pentateuch,  or  Five 
Books  of  Moses,  according  to  the  authorised  version,  with  Notes,  Critical,  Practi- 
cal, and  Devotional.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  Thomas  "Wilson,  M.A.,  of  Corpus 
Christi  College,  Cambridge.  4to.  Part  I.  pp.  vi.  and  84 ;  part  II.  pp.  85  to 
176  ;  part  III.  pp.  177  to  275,  sewed.  1853 — 4.  Each  pt.  5s.,  the  work  com- 
plete 20s. 

Biblia  Hebraica  Secundum  Editiones  J.  Athiae,  Joannis  Leus- 
deni,  J.  Simonis,  aliorumque.  Imprimis  E.  Van  der  Hooght,  recensuit  Augustus 
Halm.  8vo.  bound,  pp.  }  396.  1868.  6s. 

Bibliomane,  Le, — REVTJE  DE  LA  BIBLIOGRAPHIE  ANTIQUAIRE.  Texte 
et  gravures  par  J.  Ph.  Berjeau.  Nos.  1  and  2.  8vo.  pp.  20  and  42,  sewed.  1861. 
Is.  each  part. 

Bibliophile,  Le, — REVUE  DE  LA  BIBLIOGRAPHIE  ANTIQUAIRE,  Texte 
et  gravures  par  J.  Ph.  Berjeau.  Nos.  1,  2,  3.  8vo.  pp.  16,  32,  and  48,  sewed. 

1861.  Is.  each  part. 

Bicknell, — IN  THE  TRACK  OF  THE  GARIBALDIANS  THROUGH  ITALY  AND 
SICILY.  Bv  Algernon  Sidney  Bicknell.  Cr.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xx.  and  344. 
1861.  10s."  6d. 

Bigandet, — THE  LIFE  OR  LEGEND  OF  GAUDAMA,  the  Budha  of  the 
Burmese,  with  Annotations.  The  ways  to  Neibban,  and^Notice  on  the  Phongyies, 
or  Burmese  Monks.  By  the  Right  Reverend  <P.  Bigandet,  Bishop  of  Ramatha, 
Vicar  Apostolic  of  Ava  and  Pegu.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  xi.,  538,  and  v.  1866.  18s. 

fy  I 

Bigelow, — AUTOBIOGRAPHY  c%  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN.  Edited  from 
his  mamiscript,  with  Notes  'and^  an  Introduction.  By  John  Bigelow.  With  U 
portrait  of  Benjamin  Franklin.  Pos*,  8vo.,  pp.  410.  Cloth.  1868.  10s. 


Publications  of  Triibner  &  Co.  t      11 

I 

Papers  (The).  —  By  James  Eussell  Lowell.     Newly  Edited, 
with  a  Preface,   by  jlhe  Author  of  "  Tom  Brown's  School  Days."     In  1  vol. 

.  crown  8vo.  cloth,  ppf  Ixviii.  and  140.     1861.     2s.  6d. 
*• 
Ditto.     People's  Edition.     12mo.  sewed,  fancy  &over.     1865.     Is. 

jSiglow  Papers  (TiiE)  —  MKLIB^EUS-HIPPONAX.     Th'e  Biglow  Payers, 

Second  Series.     "With  o«  Portrait  of  the   Author.     Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  Lxiii.  and 

190.     f867.     3s.  Gd. 

"  Masterpieces  of  satirical  huroour,   they  are  entitled,  a£  such,  to  a  permanent  place  in 
American,  which  is  English  Literature,"  —  Daily  News. 

"  So  one  who  ijrer  read  the  Jtiylow  Papers  can  doubt  that  tru^humour  of  a  very  high  order 
is  within  the  range  of  American  gift."  —  Gvyfdian. 

"The  book  undoubtedly  owfjl  its  first  vogufto  party  feeling  ;  but  it  is  impossible  to  ascribe 
to  that  cause  only,  so^yitWI  ana  enduring  a  popularity  as  it  has  now."  —  Spectator. 
•t  *, 

Blasiiyi.  —  A  LTST)  O*F  THE  BIRDS  <3F  EUROPE.     By  Professor  I.  H. 

Blasj/is.     Reprinted,  fAam   the  German,  with  tbe  Author's  Corrections.     8vo. 
sewed,  pp.  24.     1862.     Is.  •  ' 


.  —  A  COMPARATIVE  GRAMMAR  OF  ^T'TTT.A-pr^cAN  LANGUAGES. 
By  Dr.  "W.  H.  I.  Bleek.     Willie  completed  in  Four  parts.     Part  I.,  sewed,  pp. 

104.     1862.     5s.         »    t 

Bleek.  —  FORMENLEHRE  DE.R  LATEINISCHEN  SPRACHE  ZUM  ERSTEN 
UNTERRICHT,  Yon  W.  H.  I.  Bleek.  8vo.  pp.  68,  sewed.  1863.  Is. 

Bleek.  —  REYNARD  THE  Ftp  IN  SOUTH  AFRICA  ;  or,  Hottentot  Fables 

and  Tales,  chiefly  Translate  1  from  Original  Manuscripts  in  the  Library  of  His 
Excellency  Sir  George  Grey,  K.C.B.  By  W.  H.  I.  Bleek,  Ph.D.  Post  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.  xxvi.  and  94.  *  1864.  3s.  Gd. 

Blyth  and  Speke.  —  REPORT  ON  A  ZOOLOGICAL  COLLECTION  FROM  THE 
SOMALI  COUNTRY.  By  Edward  Blyth,  Curator  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society's 
Museum,  Calcutta.  Reprinted  from  the  Twenty-fourth  volume  of  the  Journal 
of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  of  Bengal  ;  with  Additions  and  Corrections  by  the 
Collector,  Capt.  J.  H.  Speke,  F.R.G.S.,  etc.  8vo.  pp.  16.  One  Coloured  Plate. 
1860.  2s.  6cl. 

Bohlen,  Yon.  —  HISTORICAL  AND  CRITICAL  ILLUSTRATIONS  OF  THE  FIRST 
PART  OF  GENESIS,   from  the   German   of  Professor,  Von  Bohlen.      Edited  by 
James  Heywood,  M.A.,  F.R.S.     Revised.     2  vols.     8vo.,  pp.  xxxii.  and  336,  iv. 
%  and  298.     Cloth.     1868.     6s. 

Bojesen.  —  A    GUIDE   TO   THE   DANISH   LANGUAGE.       Designed    for 

English  Students.     By  Mrs.  Maria  Bojesen.     12mo,  cloth,  pp.  250.     1863.     5s. 

Boke  Of  Nurture  (The)  ;  OR,  SCHOOLE  OF  GOOD  MANERS,  for  Men- 
,  Servants,  and  Children,  with  stans  puer  ad  mensam.  Newly  corrected,  very 
necessary  for  all  youth  and  children.  Compyled  by  Hugh  Rhodes  of  the  Kinges 
Chappeil,  born  and  bred  in  D<yionshyre,  p.  13  and  ii.  Imprinted  at  London  in 
Fleetestreete,  beneath  the  Conduite,  at  the  sign  of  S.  John  Euaungelist.  By 
H.  Jackson,  1577.  4to.,  pp.  xxx.  and  56.  Cloth.  London,  1868.  10s.  6d. 

Bollaert.  —  ANTIQUARIAN,  ETHNOLOGICAL,  ANV  OTHER  RESEARCHES,  in 
New  Granada,  Equador,  Peru,  and  Chili  ;  with  Observations  on  the  Pre-Incarial, 
Incarial,  and  other  Monuments  of  Peruvian  Nations.  With  numerous  Plates. 
By  WilSam  Bollaert.*  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  279.  1860.  15s. 

Bollaert.  —  THE  EXPEDITION  OF  PEDRO  •  DE  *URSUA  AND  LOPE  DE 
AGUIRRE  IN  SEARCH  OF  ELDORADO  AND'A^AG^A  IN  1560-1.  Translated  from 
Fray  Pedro  Simon's  "  Sixth  Historical  Noticl  of  the  Conquest  of  Tierra  Firme." 
By  William  Bollaert,  Esq.,  »F.R.G.S.  WitB  an  Introduction  by  Clements  R. 
Markham,  Esq.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  237.  1?61.  10s.  Gd. 


1 2       '  Publication  of  Triibner  fy  Co. 

i 

Boltz. — A  NEW  COURSE  OF  THE  ENGLISH  LANGUAGE,  after  a 

Practical  and  Theoretical  Method,  by  T.  Eobertson.  F  of}  the  use  of  schools  and 
for  private  tuition,  with  numerous  analogies  of  English  words,  with  the  correT 
spending  French  or  German  expi  sssions.  Translated  from  his  fourth  German 
edition  into  Russiai}  by  Dr.  August  Boltz,  Professor  of  the  Russian,  the  English, 
the,  Spanish,  etc.,  Languages  at  the  Royal  Mifijary  Academy  and  the  Royal. 
Xavy  Institution  at  Berlin.  2  vols.  Post  8vo.,<f>p.  166  and  160,  cloth.  1865. 
7*. 

Book  OF  GOD.  THE  APOCALYPSE  OF  ADA?I  CANNES.  Post  8vo. 
cloth,  pp.  648.  1867.  T(L2*.  6d.  , 

Book  OF  GOD.  An  Introduction  to  t.Tio  Apocalypse.  In  1  vol.  crown 
8vo.  pp.  iv  and  752,  cloth.  14*.  • 

Bowditch, — SUFFOLK  SURNAMES,.  By  N.  L.  Bo/»vditch.  Third 
Edition.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xxvi.  and  758.  1861.  7*.  &dt 

V  '  \«  *- 

Bowles, — LIFE'S  DISSOLVING  VIEWS  By  G.  C.  Bowles.  I2mo., 
pp.  IDS.  ise^s^Ss. 

Bowling, — ON  KHrGnJDs-TnoGREss  BEYOND  THE  CHRISTIAN  PALE. 
An  Address  delivered  a-t  St.  Martin's  Hall,  London,  by  Sir  John  Bowring, 
LL.D.,  F.R.S.,  etc.,  on  Sunday,  14th  January,  1866.  tost  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  16. 

1866.  3d. 

Bowring. — SIAM  AND  THE  SIAMESE.  A  Discourse  delivered  by  Sir 
John  Bowring  at  St.  Martin's  Hall,  on  Februarjt  17th,  1867.  Also  the  Intro- 
ductory Address  of  J.  Baxter  Langley,  Esq.,  M.R'Ji!1.S.,  F.L.S.  8vo.  sewed,  pp. 
12.  1867.  Id.  * 

Boyce, — A  GRAMMAR  OF  THE  KAFFIR  LANGUAGE.  '  By  William  B. 
Boyce,  "Wesleyan  Missionary.  Third  Edition,  augmented  and  improved,  with 
Exercises,  by  William  J.  Davis,  "Wesleyan  Missionary.  12mo.,  pp.  xii.  and  164, 
cloth,  8s. 

BractOH.  AND  HIS  RELATION  TO  THE  ROMAN  LAW.  A  Contribution  to 
the  History  of  the  Roman  Law  in  the  Middle  Ages.  By  Carl  Giiterbock,  Pro- 
fessor of  Law  in'the  University  of  Koenigsberg.  Translated  by  Brinton  Coxe. 
8vo.,  pp.  182,  cloth.  1866.  9s. 

Brazil,  THE  EMPIRE  OF,   at  the   Paris  International  Exhibition  of 

1867.  Post  8vo.,  sewed,  pp.  139.     Rio  de  Janeiro.     1867.     2s.  6d. 

Ditto,  Ditto,  with  Maps  and  Catalogue  of  the  Articles  sent  to  the 
Universal  Exhibition  at  Paris,  in  1867.  Post  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  139,  iii.  and  197. 
Rio  de  Janeiro.  1867.  Is.  6d. 

Brentano, — HONOUR  :  OR,  THE  STORY  OF  THE  BRAVE  CASPAR  AND  THE 
FAIR  AXXERL.  By  Clemens  Brentano.  With  an  Introduction,  and  a  Biogra- 
phical Xotice  of  the  Author.  By  T.  W.  APPELL.  Translated  from  the  German. 
12mo.  cloth,  pp.  7,4.  1847.  2s.  Qd. 

Bretschneider, — A  MANUAL  OF  RELIGION  AND  OF  THE  HISTORY  OF  THE 
Christian  Church,  for  the  use  of  upper  classes  in  public  schools  in  Germany,  and 
for  all  educated  men  in  general.  By  Karl  Gottlieb  Bretschneider.  Translated 
from  the  German.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  296.  1857.  2s.  6d. 

Brice. — A  ROMANIZED  HINDUSTANI  AND  ENGLISH  DICTIONARY,  de- 
signed for  the  Use  of  Schools  and  for  Vernacular  Students  of  the  Language. 
Composed  by  Nathaniel  Brice.  Xew  Edition,  revised  aH4  enlarged.  *Post  8vo., 
cloth,  pp.  366,  1864.  &s. 

Bridges. — THE  UNITY  OF^OMTZ'S  LIFE  AND  DOCTRINE  :  A  Reply  to 
Strictures  on  Conite's  Later  'tVrrings,  addressed  to  J.  S.  Mill,  Esq.,  M.P.  By 
Dr.  J.  H.  Bridges,  Translator  oi  Comte's  Genetal  View  of  Positivism.  8vo., 
sewed,  pp.  70.  1366.  2s. 


Publications  of  Trilbner  fy  Co.  13 

fil'inton.— THE  MYTHS  OF  THE  NEW  WORLD.  A  Treatise  on  the 
Symbolism  and  Mythology  of  the  Red  Race  of  America.  By  Daniel  G.  Brinton, 
A.M.,  M.D.  Crowi/8vo.,  pp.  viii.  and  308.  Cloth.  1868.  10s.  6d. 

*• 

Brown, — THE  'DERVISHES  ;  OR,  ORIENTAL  SPIRITUALISM.  By  John 
P.  Brown,  Secretary  and  Dragoman  of  the  Legation  of»the  United  States  of 
America  at  Constantinople,  ^trown  8vo.,  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  416,  with  24  Illus- 
trations. 1868.  14s. 

Buchner, — FORCE  AND  MATTER.     By  Dr.  Jjouis  Buchner.      Edited 

from  the  Eighth  Edition  of  "Kraft  and  Stoff,"  by  J.  Frederick  Collingwood, 
F.R.S.L.,  F.G.S.  Post «vo.  cloth,  ap.  320.  1865.  <fs.  6d. 

"  The  work  is  valuable  on  a  jcoun^of  its  c*l*se  and  logical  reasoning,  and  the  profound  and 
in  many  cases  strikiite  views  token  of  the  subjects  discussed."— Observer. 

BUCklS. HlSTOp  IA*  DE  LA  ClVILIZACION  EN  EsPANA  POR  ENRIQUE 

TOBIAS  BUCKLE.  Capifculo  ID  del  segundo  tomo  cle  la  histoi^,  de  la  civilizacion  en 
Inglaterra.  Traducido  de  la  primer^  edicion  Ingljea  por  F.  G.  y  T.  Post  8vo., 

Nfiloth,  pp  xvi.  and  188.     1861.     2s.  6d.  '.' 

^  'J-' 

Bumstead. — THE  PATHOLOGPY  AND  TR?&TJM.ENT  OF  VENEREAL  DIS- 
EASES. By  F.  J.  Bu$ns*ead,  M.D.  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  xvi.  and  640.  1866.  21s. 

Bunsen, — MEMOIR  ON  THE  CONSTITUTIONAL  RIGHTS  OF  THE  DUCHIES 

OF  SCHLESWIG  AND  HOLST^N,  presented  to  Viscount  Palmerston,  by  Chevalier 
Bunsen,  on  the  8th  of  Ajiftl,  1848.  With  a  Postscript  of  the  15th  of  April. 
Published  with  M,de  Gru|er's  Essay,  on  the  Danish  Question,  and  all  the  official 
Documents,  by  Otto  Von  W  enkstern.  Illustrated  by  a  Map  of  the  Two  Duchies. 
Svo.,  sewed,  pp.  166.  1848.  2s.  6d. 

Burgess. — THE  PHOTOGRAPHIC  MANUAL.  A  Practical  Treatise  con- 
taining the  cartes-de-visite  process,  and  the  method  of  taking  stereoscopic 
pictures,  including  the  Albumen  process,  the  dry  Collodion  process,  the  Tanning 
process,  the  various  Alkaline  Toning  baths,  etc.,  etc.,  etc.  To  which  is  added  an 
Appendix  containing  all  the  recent  improvements  in  the  art.  By  N.  G.  Burgess. 
12mo.  cloth,  pp.  283.  1865.  6s. 

Burgh. — THE  MANUFACTURE  OF  SUGAR  AND  THE  MACHINERY  EMPLOYED 
FOR  COLONIAL  AND  HOME  PURPOSES.  Read  before  the  Society  of  Arts, 
Adelphi,  London,  April  4th,  1866.  By  N.  P.  Burgh,  Engineer.  Svo.  sewed, 
pp.  31.  1866.  Is. 

Burgh. — THE  PRINCIPLES  THAT  GOVERN  THE  FUTURE  DEVELOPMENT 
OF  THE  MARINE  BOILER,  ENGINE,  AND  SCREW  PROPELLER.     Read  before  the 
'     Society  of  Arts,  Adelphi,  London,   December  18th,   1867.     By  N.   P.   Burgh, 
Engineer.     8vo.,  sewed,  pp.  30.     1868.  '  2s. 

Burton, — CAPTAIN  RICHARD  F.  BURTON'S  HANDBOOK  FOR  OVERLAND 
EXPEDITIONS  :  being  an  English  Edition  of  the  "  Prairie  Traveller,"  a  Handbook 
for  Overland  Expeditions ;  with  Illustrations  and  Itineraries  of  the  Principal 
Routes  between  the  Mississippi  and  the  Pacific,  and  a  Map.  By  Captain  Ran- 
dolph B.  Marcy  (now  General  and  Chief  of  the'Staff,  Army  of  the  Potomac). 
Edited  (with  Note^  by  Captain  Richard  F.  Burton.  Crown  8vo.,  cloth, 
pp.  271.  Numerous  \Voodcu^s,  Itineraries,  and  Map.  1863.  6s.  6^.  , 

Busch. — G-UIDE  FOR  TRAVELLERS  IN  EGYPT  AND  ADJACENT  COUNTRIES 
SUBJECT  TO  THE  PASHA.  Translated  frt>n\  thfc»  German  of  Dr.  Moritz  Busch. 
By  "W".  C.  Wrankmore.  Square  12mo.,  Icloui,  pp.  xxxviii.  and  182,  with  14 
Illustrations,  a  Travelling  Map,  and  Plan  01  Cairo.  1858.  7s.  6d. 


14      ,  Publications  of  Triibner  8f  Co. 

Busch, — MANUAL  OF  GERMAN  CONVERSATION:  A  choice  and  com- 
prehensive collection  of  sentences  on  the  ordinary  subjects  of  every-day  life, 
with  a  copious  Vocabulary  on  an  entirely  new  and  simpL  plan.  By  Dr.  Oscaf 
Busch,  Teacher  of  Ancient  and  Modern  Languages  at  the  establishment  of  Dr. 
Krause  at  Dresden.  12mo.,  cloth,"  pp.  x.  and,340.  1861.  4s. 
t 

Butchers. — A  WAIF  ON  THE  STREAM.  By*$.  M.  Butchers.  12mo.' 
cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  200.  London,  1866.  3s.  6d. 

Calvert, — LECTURES  ON  CQAL-TAR  COLOURS  Aaro.  ON  EECENT  IMPROVE- 
MENTS AND  PROGRESS  IN  DYEING  AND  CALICO  PRINTING.  Embodying  Copkms 
Notes  taken  at  the  International  Exhibition  of  f862,  and  Illustrated  with 
numerous  specimens  of  Aniline  and  other  colours.  rBy  Dr,  F.  Grace  Calvert, 
F.R.S.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  64.  2s.  '  T 

Callaway, — IZINGANEDWANE,  NENSUMANSUMANE,  JN"EziSiR-iBA  ZABANTU 
(Nursery  Tales,  Tradition s,,{md  Histories  of  the  Zulus.  In  their  own  words.) 
With  a  Translation  into  English  and  Notes.  By  the  Rev.  Canon  Callaway. 
M.D.  Volume' I.  Q.yo.j2:n._vii.jjnd  390.  cloth.  Springvale  (Natal),  Pieterma?^z- 
burg  (Natal)  and  Ldncion."*ioxjS.  16s.  e 

Camerini. — L'Eco  ITALIANO  ;  A  PRACTICAL  GUIDE  ip  ITALIAN  CONVER- 
SATION. By  E.  Camerini.  With  a  Vocabulary.  12mo.  cloth,  pn.  98.  1860. 
4s.  Qd. 


Campbell, — NEW  EELIGIOUS  THOUGHTS.  Uy  Douglas  Campbell. 
Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xii.  and  425.  1860.  6s.  6d.  f 

Canones  LEXICOGRAPHICI  :  or  Rules  to  be  observed  in  editing  the 
New  English  Dictionary  of  the  Philological  Society,  prepared  by  a  Committee  of 
the  Society.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  12.  1860.  &d. 

Canticum  CantiCOrum,  reproduced  in  facsimile,  from  the  Scriverius 
copy  in  the  British  Museum.  With  an  Historical  and  Bibliographical  Introduc- 
tion by  I.  Ph.  Berjeau.  Folio,  pp.  36,  with  Sixteen  Tables  of  Illustrations. 
Vellum.  1860.  £2  2s. 

Carey, — THE  SLAVE  TRADE,  DOMESTIC  AND  FOREIGN,  WHY  IT  EXISTS 
AND  HOW  IT  MAY  BE  EXTINGUISHED.  By  H.  C.  Carey,  Author  of  "  Principles 
of  Political  Economy,"  "  The  Past,  the  Present,  and  the  Future,"  etc.,  etc.  8vo. 
cloth,  pp.  426.  1853.  6s. 

Carey. —  THE  PAST,  THE  PRESENT,  AND  THE  FUTURE.  By  H.  C. 
Carey.  Second  Edition.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  474.  1856.  10s.  6d. 

Carey. — PRINCIPLES  OF  SOCIAL  SCIENCE.  By  H.  C.  Carey.  In  Three 
Volumes.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  474,  480,  and  511.  1858—1867.  42s. 

Cape  Town. — PICTORIAL    ALBUM    OF    CAPE   TOWN,   with   Views  of 

Simon's  Town,  Port  Elizabeth,  and  Graham's  Town,  from  original  Drawings  by 
T.  W.  Bowler.  With  Historical  and  Descriptive  Sketches  by  W.  R.  Thomson. 
Oblong  4to.  With  Twelve  Plates,  pp.  44.  1866.  25s. 

Carpenter. — THE  LAST  DAYS  IN  ENGLAND  OF  THIT'BAJAH  EAMMOIIUN 
ROY.  Edited  by  Mary  Carpenter,  of  Bristol.  YJith  Illustrations.  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.  v.  and  255.  1866.  1c..  6d. 

Catherine  II.,  MEMOIRS  c£  'liih  EMPRESS.  Written  by  herself. 
With  a  Preface  by  A.  Herzen.  .  ranslated  from  the  French.  12mo.,  boards, 
pp.  xvi.  and  352.  )f!859.  7s.  6d. 


Publications  of  Triibner  fy  Co.  .      15 

Catherine*  II,,  MEMOIRES  DB  L'  IMP  BEATRICE.  Ecrits  par  elle-meme  et 
precedes  d'une  prefac^  par  A.  Herzen.  Seconde  edition.  Revue  et  auginentee, 
de  huit  lettres  de  Pif>re  III.,  et  d'une  lettre  de  Catherine  II.  au  Comte  Ponia- 

*4owsky.     8vo.,  j>p.  xvi.  and  370.     1859.     10s.  Qd. 

Catholic,  THE  NEW  CHURCH.  *  Second  Edition.    8\w.,  sewed,  pp.  15. 
*    1867.     Qd.  y  * 

Catlin.—  THE  BREATH  OF  LIFE.  By  G.  Catlin.  8vo.,  with  Illus- 
trations. Pp.  76.  1864.  ,2s.  6d.  , 

Catlin,  —  O-]£EE-PA.  A.  Religious  Ceremony^  and  other  Customs 
of  the  Mandans.  By  Georg?  Catliir*  With  Thirteen  coloured  Illustrations. 
Small  4to.  cloth,'^  vi.  and  52.  1867.  14s. 

Cavoifc  —  Cox-si-uERATioNS  ON  THE  CONDITION  OF  IRELAND,  AND  ITS 
FutuRE.  fcy  the  late  Count  Cavour.  Translate'd  fry  W.  B.  Hodgson,  LL.D. 


*,  —  THE  GAME  OF  CHESS.  A  reproduction  of  ^Jiiiiam  Caxton's 
Game  of  Chess,  the  first  work  printed  in  EnglSiFa.  ito.  ib62.  In  cloth,  £1  1*. 
Ditto,  full  morocco  antique,  £2  2s. 

Frequently  as  we  read  ot  the  works  of  Caxton,  and  the  early  English  Printers,  and  of  their 
black  letter  books,  very  few  persons  have  ever  had  the  opportunity  of  seeing  any  of  these 
productions,  and  forming  a  prope;!  estimate  of  the  ingenuity  and  skill  of  thSse  who  first 
practised  the  ''Noble  Art  of  Printing." 

This  reproduction  of  the  first  v'ljprk  printed  by  Caxtou  at  Westminster,  containing  23  wood- 
cuts, is  intended,  in  some  measure,  to  supply  this  deficiency,  and  bring  the  present  age  into 
somewhat  greater  intimacy  with  me  Father  of  English  Printers. 

The  type  has  been  <^,refully  imitated,  and  the  cuts  traced  from  the  copy  in  the  British 
Museum.  The  paper  has  also  been  made  expressly,  as  near  as  possible  like  the  original. 

CazeailX.  —  A  THEORETICAL  AND  PRACTICAL  TREATISE  ON  MIDWIFERY. 
By  J.  Cazeaux.  Translated  by  W.  R.  Bullock.  4th  edition,  royal  8vo.  Pp.  988. 
1866.  Cloth.  24s. 

Centoniana,  —  REVUE  ANALYTIQUE  DBS  OUVRAGES  ECRITS  EN  CENTONS, 
DEPUIS  LES  TEMPS  ANCiENS,  Jusuu'AU  XIXiEME  SiECLE.  Par  un  Bibliophile 
Beige.  Small  4to.,  pp.  508.  1868.  30s. 

Chalmers,  —  THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  CHINESE.  An  Attempt  to  trace  the 
connection  of  the  Chinese  with  Western  Nations  in  their  Religion,  Superstitions, 
Arts,  Language,  and  Traditions.  By  John  Chalmers,  A.M.  Fcap.  8vo.,  pp.  80, 
cloth.  1868.  2s.  6d. 

Chalmers,  —  THE  SPECULATIONS  ON  METAPHYSICS,  POLITY,  AND  Mo- 
KALITY  OF  "  THE  OLD  PHILOSOPHER  "  LAU-TSZE.  Translated  from  the  Chinese, 
with  an  Introduction  by  John  Chalmers,  M.A.  Fcp.  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  xx.  and 
62.  1868.  4s.  Qd. 

Channing.  —  SELF-CULTURE.  By  William  E.  Channing.  Post  Svo. 
Cloth.  Pp.  56.  1844.  Is. 

Chapman.  —  GEORGE  CHAPMAN'S  TRAGEDY  "OF  ALPHONSUS,  EMPEROR 
OF  GERMANY.  Edited  with  an  Introduction  and  Notes,  by  Karl  Elze,  Ph.  D., 
Hon.  IVf.R.S.L.  12»ro.  sewod,  p.  \52%  1867.  3s.  6d. 

Chapman,  —  THE  COTTON  AND  COMMERCE  OF  INDIA,  considered  in 
relation  to  the  Interests  of  Great  Britain  ?  A\itb.^,emarks  on  Railway  Communi- 
cation in  Bombay  Presidency.  By  John  Clapman,  Founder  of  the  Great  India 
Peninsula  Railway  Company.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xvii.  and  412.  1801.  6s. 


16  Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co. 

Chapman,  —  BARODA  AND  BOMBAY  ;  their  Political  Morality.  A 
Narrative  drawn  from  the  Papers  laid  before  Parliament  in  relation  to  the 
Eemoval  of  Lieut.-Col.  Outram,  C.B.,  from  the  Office  of  Resident  at  the  Court 
of  the  Gaekwar.  With  Explanatory  Notes,  and  Eemarks  on  the  Letter  G? 
L.  R.  Eeid,  Esq.,  to  the  Editor  of  the  Daily  News.  By  J.  'Chapman.  8vo. 
sewed,  pp.  iv.  and  1C4.  1853.  3s. 

Chapman,  —  INDIAN    POLITICAL    KEFORM.     Being    Brief   Hiiits,  to- 

gether with  a  Plan  for  the  Improvement  of  the  Constituency  of  the  East  India 
Company,  and  the  Promotion  of  Public  Works.  By  «Tohn  Chapman.  8vo.  sewed 
pp.  36.  1853.  Is. 

Chapman,  —  REMARKS  ON  THE  LEG/!;  BASIS  REQUIRED  BY  IRRIGA- 
TION IN  INDIA.  By  John  Chapman.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.'  z0.r  1?>54.  Is. 

Chapman.  —  CHLOROFORM  AND  OTHER  ANESTHETICS  ;  «ih_eir  Hktory 
and  Use  during  Childbed.  2y  John  Chapman,  M.E^.  8vo.  sowed,  p,  52. 
1859.  Is.  f. 


Chapman,  —  CHRI^S^^^-  J^jSPy^LS  ;     THEIR  HISTORY  AND  NATURAL 
HISTORY.     By  John  Chapman,  M.D.     8vo.  sewed,  pp.  53.     1860.     Is. 

Chapman,  —  FUNCTIONAL  DISEASES  OF  WOMEN.     "Gases   illustrative 
of  a  New  Method  of  Treating  them  through  the  Agency  of  the  Nervous  System, 


by  means  of  Cold  and  Heat.  With  Appendix,  containing  Cases  illustrating  a 
New  Method  of  Treating  Epilepsy,  Infantile  \jonvulsions,  Paralysis,  and 
Diabetes.  By  John  Chapman,  M.D.  8vo.  sewed!"  pp.  xviii.  and  74.  1863. 

9*     P.J 


2s. 

Chapman, — SEA- SICKNESS  :  ITS  NATURE  AND  TREATMENT.  By  John 
Chapman,  M.D.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  72.  1864.  2s.  &d. 

Chapman, — DIARRHOEA  AND  CHOLERA  ;  their  NATURE,  ORIGIN,  AND 
TREATMENT  THROUGH  THE  AGENCY  or  THE  NERVOUS  SYSTEM.  By  John 
Chapman,  M.D.,  M.R.C.P.,  M.R.C.S.  2nd  edition.  Enlarged.  8vo."  cloth, 
pp.  xix.  and  248.  1866.  7s.  6d. 

Chamock. — YERBA  NOMINALIA  :  or  "Words  derived  from  Proper 
Names.  By  Richard  Stephen  Charnock,  Ph.D.,  F.S.A.,  F.R.G.S.,  etc.  8vo. 
cloth,  pp.  iv.  and  357.  London.  1866.  14s. 

Charnock, — LUDUS  PATRONYMICUS  ;  or,  The  Etymology  of  Curious 
Surnames.  By  Richard  Stephen  Charnock,  Ph.D.,  F.S.A.,  F.R.G.S.  Crown 
8vo.  cloth,  pp.  182.  1868.  7s.  6^. 

Chanvenet.  —  A  MANUAL  OF  SPHERICAL  AND  PRACTICAL  ASTRONOMY, 

embracing  the  general  problems  of  Spherical  Astronomy,  the  special  applications 
to  Nautical  Astronomy,  and  the  theory  and  use  of  fixed  and  portable  Astro- 
nomical Instruments.  With  an  Appendix  on  tl.e  method  of  least  squares.  By 
William  Chauvenet,  Professor  of  Mathematics  and  Astronomy.  Library 
edition,  revised  and  corrected.  2  vols.  8vo.,  pp.  708  and  632.  With  fourteen 
plates.  Cloth.  1864.  £2  1 6s.  Qd. 

<> 
Chess. — ONE    HUNDRED    CHESS    GAMES,    played   between    Mr.    J. 

F;  Emmett  and  Mr.  Vivian  Fenton,  during,  the  Winter  of  1864.  Small  4to. 
sewed,  pp.  60.  Boulogne  and  London.  <t865.  2&:  '  " 

Chess-Strategy.  —  A  Collection  ,  of  the  Most  Beautiful  Chess 
Problems,  composed  by  "  J.  BV,  o^Bridport,"  and  contributed  by  him  to  the 
chief  Chess  Periodicals  during  ,theAast  fifteen  year.s.  Illustrated  by  Diagrams, 
and  accompanied  by  Solutions.  Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  118.  1865.  5s. 


Publications  of  Trubyer  §  Co.  '     J  7 

.Cftess   "World    (THE).— Volumes    1,    2,  and    3,  each    12s.       18C5, 

1866,  1867.     Continued  in  monthly  numbers  at  Is.  each. 

Clnlde, — INVESTIGATIONS  IN  THE  THEORY  OF  REFLECTED  RAY- 
SURFACES,  AND  THEIR  RELATION  TO  PLANE  REFLECTED  pAUSTICS.  Also,  in 

„  the  Appendix,  A  THEORY  o^  PLANE  CAUSTIC  CURVES,  IDENTIFIED  WITH  THE 
EVOLUTE  OF  THE  AUXILIARY  CURVE  OF  EQUIANGULAR  INTERSECTION.  By 
Rev.  G?  F.  Childe,  M.A.,  Mathematical  Professor  in  the  South  African  College, 
Cape  of  Good  Hope.  8vo.  ,  Boards.  Pp.140.  18,57.  7s. 

Cnronique  EE  ABOU-I}JAFAR-MOHAMMED  BEJ^DJARIR  BEN-YEZID 
TABARI.  Traduite  par  Monsieur  Iltjmann  Zotenberg.  Volume  I.,  8vo.,  pp. 
608,  sewed.  7s.  Sd.^  18J7.  ('jfo  be  completed  in  four  volumes). 

Claim,. (THE)  OF  ENGLISHWOMEN  TO  THE  SUFFRAGE  CONSTITUTION- 
ALLY CONSIDERED.  Imprinted  by  permission  from  the  Westminster  Review,  for 
January,  1867.  Post  8vo.  sewed,  pp.,^9.  London.*  1867.  6cl. 

^  ' 

Ciay4on'  and   Blllwer  CONVENTION,  OF  THE  19rr.H  APRIL,   1850,  BE- 

TWEEJT     THE     BRITISH     AND     AMERICAN     GOVERNMENTS,    CONCERNING     CENTRAL 

'     AMERICA.     8vo.     Pp.^64|  sewed.     1856.     Is. 

Clegg. — A  PRACTICAL  TREATISE  ON  THE  MANUFACTURE  AND  DIS- 
TRIBUTION OF  COAL  GAR,  rrri  INTRODUCTION  AND  PROGRESSIVE  IMPROVEMENT. 
Illustrated  by  Engravings  fom  Working  Drawings,  with  General  Estimates, 
By  Samuel  Clegg,  Jun.,  71.  Inst.  C.E.,  F.G.S.  Fifth  Edition.  Greatly 
enlarged,  and  with  numer|us  Additional  Engravings.  4to.  Pp.  xii.  and  412, 
cloth.  1868.  21*. 

Cobbe, — FEMALE  EDUCATION,  AND  How  IT  WOULD  BE  AFFECTED  BY 
UNIVERSITY  EXAMINATIONS.  A  Paper  read  at  the  Social  Science  Congress, 
London,  1862.  By  Frances  Power  Cobbe.  Third  Edition.  18mo.  sewed, 
pp.  20.  1862.  Id. 

Cobbe, — FRIENDLESS  GIRLS  AND  How  TO  HELP  THEM.      Being  an 

Account  of  the  Preventive  Mission  at  Bristol.  From  a  Paper  read  at  the  Social 
Science  Congress  in  Dublin,  1861.  By  Frances  Power  Cobbe.  fourth  Thou- 
sand. 18mo.  sewed,  pp.  14.  1862.  2d. 

Cobbe. — THE  WORKHOUSE  AS  AN  HOSPITAL.  By  Frances  Power 
Cobbe.  18mo.  sewed,  pp.  16.  1862.  'Id. 

Cobbe. — THE  RELIGIOUS  DEMANDS  OF  THE  AGE.     A  Reprint  of  the 

Preface  to  the  Collected  Works  of  Theodore  Parker.     By  Frances  Power  Cobbe. 
.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  36.     1863.     Is. 

Cobbe. — THANKSGIVING.  A  Chapter  of  Religious  Duty.  By  Frances 
Power  Cobbe.  18mo.  pp.  40,  cV>th.  1863.  6s. 

Cobbe. — THE    CITIES    or    THE   PAST.      By  Frances  Power  Cobbe. 

12mo.  cloth,  pp.  216.     1864.     3s.  6d. 

Cobbe. — AN  ESSAY  ON  INTUITIVE  MORALS.*  Being  an  attempt  to 
popularise  Ethical  Science.  By  Frances  Power  Cobbe.  Part  I.  Theory  of 
Morals.  »New  Edition*  Crovjn  8v&.  ctyth,  pp.  xv.  and  289.  1864.  5*.  • 

Cobbe. — ITALICS  :  Brief  Notes  on  Polities,  People,  and  Places  in 
Italy,  in  1864.  By  Frances  Power  Cobbe.'  \vo.j»loth,  pp.  534.  1864.  12*.  (\<l. 

Cobbe. — RELIGIOUS    DUTY.,     Second    Eftitkm.      Crown   8vo.,  cloth, 

pp.  vi.  and  332.     1864.     7*.  6tf.  •  « 

» _ 


18  Publications  of  Trilbner  fy  Co. 

Cobbe. — BROKEN  LIGHTS.  A  Survey  of  the  Religious  Controver- 
sies of  our  Times.  By  Frances  Power  Cobbe.  Secon^  Edition.  Crown  8vo., 
cloth,  pp.  ix.  and  192.  1865.  5s. 

Cobbe,— STUDIES,f  NEW  AND  6l/D,  ON  ETHICAL  AND  SOCIAL  SUBJECTS. 
Bv  Frances  Power  Cobbe.  Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp-,446.  1865.  10s.  6d. 

CONTENTS.— I.  Christian  Ethics  and  the  Ethics  of  Christ.—1 II.  Self- Abnegation  and  Self- 
Development. — III.  The  Sacred  Books  of  the  Zoroastriatis. — IV.  Hades. — V.  The  Philosophy 
of  the  Poor  Laws. — VI.  The  Rights  of  Man  and  the  Claims  of  Brutes.  — VII.  The  Morals  of 
Literature  —VIII.  The  Hierarchy  of  Art. 

Cobbe.  —  HOURS  OB  WORK  AND  PLAY.  «  By  Frances  Power 
Cobbe.  Post  8vo.,  cloth,  pp.  374.  1807.  6s., 

V         .         i; 

Cobden. — RICHARD  COBDEN,  ROI  DES  BELGES  ;  pr.r  un  ex-Colonel 
de  la  Garde  Civique.  Dedie  aux  "blesses  de  Septembre.  "^ipuxiempEdition. 
12mo.  sewed,  pp.  62.  1863.  2s.  6d. 

Coleccao  DE  YOCABULOS  E  PRASES  usados  na  Provincia  de  S.  Pedrck-ie 

Rio 'Grande  do  Sutno'tkazi-.,-  16mo.,  pp.  32,  sewed,  2s.  6d. 
Ditto         ditto,     large  paper,  small  4to.     1856.     5s.'    , 

Coleccion  DE  DOCTTMENTOS  ineditos  relatives  al  Descubrimiento  y  a  la 
Historia  de  las  Floridas.  Los  ha  dado  a  luz  eJ'Senor  Don  Buckingham  Smith, 
segun  los  manuscritos  de  Madrid  y  Sevilla.  l^mo  primero,  folio,  pp.  216,  con 
retrato  del  Eey  D.  Fernando  V.  1851.  28*.  V 

Colenso. — FIRST  STEPS  IN  ZULU- KAFIR  :  'An  Abridgement  of  the 
Elementary  Grammar  of  the  Zulu-Kafir  Language.  By  the  Eight  Rev.  John  W. 
Colenso,  Bishop  of  Xatal.  8vo.,  pp.  86,  cloth.  Ekukanyeni,  1859.  4s.  6d. 

Colenso. — ZULU-ENGLISH  DICTIONARY.  By  the  Right  Rev.  John  ~VV. 
Colenso,  Bishop  of  Xatal.  8vo.,  pp.  viii.  and  552,  sewed.  Pietermaritzburg, 
1861.  15s. 

Colenso. — FIRST  ZULU-KAFIR  READING  BOOK,  two  parts  in  one.  By 
the  Right  Rev.  John  "W.  Colenso,  Bishop  of  Xatal.  16mo.,  pp.  44,  sewed. 
Xatal.  Is. 

Colenso. — SECOND  ZULU-KAFIR  READING  BOOK.  By  the  same.  16mo, 
pp.  108,  sewed.  Xatal.  3s. 

Colenso. — FOURTH  ZULU-KAFIR  READING  BOOK,  By  the  same.  8vo. 
pp.  160,  cloth.  Xatal,  1859.  7s. 

Colenso. — THREE  NATIVE  ACCOUNTS  OF  THE  VISITS  OF  THE  BISHOP  CF 
XATAL,  IN  SEPTEMBER  AND  OCTOBER,  1859,  TO  UPMANDE.  KING  OF  THE 
ZULUS.  "With  Explanatory  Xotes  and  a  Literal  Translation,  and  a  Glossary  of 
all  the  Zulu  words  employed  in  the  same.  I/esigned  for  the  use  of  Students  of 
the  Zulu  Language.  By  the  Right  Rev.  John  "W.  Colenso,  Bishop  of  Xatal. 
16mo.,  pp.  160.  Stiff  cover.  Maritzburg,  Xatal.  1860.  4s.  6d. 

Colenso. — Two    SERMONS  Preached  by  the  Lord  Bishop  of  Natal, 
in  St.  Paul's,  D'Urban,  on  Sunday,  Xovember  12,  1,865;  and  in  the  Cathedral 
Chvrch  of  St.    Peter's,  Maritzburg,  on,  Sunday,  Xqvember  19,  a^id  Sunday, 
Xovember  26,  1865.     8vo.,  sewed,  pp'!  12.     18b6.     6d.'- 
i         ,. 

Colenso. — THE  PREFACED  AND  CONCLUDING  REMARKS  OF  PART  V.  OF 
THE  PENTATEUCH  AND  B^OKfoF  JOSHUA' CRITICALLY  EXAMINED.  By  the 
Right  Rev.  John  William  Colrhso,  D.D.,  Bishep  of  Xatal.  Printed  separately 
by  request.  SAP.,  sewed,  pp.  xlvi.  ?nd  pp.  305  to  320.  1865.  1.?. 


t  Publications  of  TrubJter  <5f  Co.  19 

> 

Golenso.  —  ON  MISSIONS  TO  THE  ZULUS  IN  NATAL  AND  ZULULAND.  A 
Lecture  bv  tho  Right  Aev.  J.  W.  Colonso,  D.D.,  Bishop  of  Natal.  8vo.  sewed, 
pfc.  24.  I860.  fid.  > 

Colenso,  —  NATAL    SERMONS.,    A  Series  of  Discourses  Preached  in 

"the   Cathedral   Church  of  St.  Jeter's,  Maritzburg.     By  the  Right  Rev.   Whn 
William  Colenso,  D.D.,  Bishop  of  Natal.      8vo.,  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  373.     1866. 

7s.  Gd. 

fcolenso.  —  NAT^YL  SERMONS.  The  Second  Series^  Preached  in  the 
Cathedral  Church  of  St.  Jeter's,  Mn4i4tzburg.  By  thcr  Right  Reverend  John 
William  Coleuso,  ]}.  D.,  BJyhop  Jf  Natal"  Crown  8vo.  1868.  5s. 

Coleridge.—  A  GLOSSA^IAL  INDEX  to  the  Printed  English  Literature 
of  the  thirteenth  Gentry-  By  Herbert  Coleridge.  8vo.  cloth.  Pp.  104. 
1859.*  2s.  6oC  -  * 


,—  GEORGE  JACOB  HOLYOAKE  AND  MODERN  ATHEISM.      A  Bio- 
raphical and  Critical  Essay.     By'Sophia  Dobson  Collet.     12mo.,  pp.  54,  sewed. 
•   1855.     Is.  s    /    ' 

Comte,  —  THE  POSITIVE  PHILOSOPHY  OF  AUGUSTE  COMTE.  Translated 
and  Condensed.  By  Harriet  ;Martineau.  2  Vols.  Large  post  8vo.  Cloth. 
Vol.  1,  pp.  xxxvi.  and  480.  7|61.  2,  pp.  xvi.  and  561.  1853.  16s. 


Comte, — THE  CATECHISM  <jp  POSITIVE  EELIGION.  Translated  from 
the  French  of  Auguste  Comte.  By  Richard  Congreve.  12mo.  cloth.  Pp.  vi. 
and  428.  1858.  6s.  Gd. 

Comte, — A  GENERAL  VIEW  OF  POSITIVISM.  By  Auguste  Conite- 
Translated  by  Dr.  J.  H.  Bridges.  Crown  8vo.  cloth.  Pp.  xi.  and  426.  1865- 
8s.  Gd. 

Conant. — THE  MEANING  AND  USE  OF  BAPTIZEIN  PHILOLOGIOALLY  AND 
HISTORICALLY  INVESTIGATED.  By  T.  J.  Conant,  D.D.  8vo.  cloth.  Pp.  164. 
1861.  2s.  6d.  • 

Confessions  (The)  of  a  Catholic  Priest.     Post.  8vo.  cloth.    Pp.  v. 

and  320.     1858.     7s.  Gd. 

Congreve. — THE  ROMAN  EMPIRE  OF  THE  WEST.  Four  Lectures 
delivered  at  the  Philosophical  Institution,  Edinburgh,  February,  1855,  by 
Richard  Congreve,  M.A.  8vo.  pp.  176,  cloth.  1855.  4s. 

Co Qgreve,— INDIA.  By  Eichard  Congreve.  8vo.  sewed.  Pp.' iv. 
and  35.  1857.  Is. 

Congreve,  —THE  CATECHISM  »OF  POSITIVE  RELIGION.  Translated 
from  the  French  of  Auguste  Comte.  By  Richard  Congreve,  M.A.  12mo.  cloth, 
pp.  428.  1858.  6s.  Gd. 

Congreve. — THE  NEW  RELIGION  LN  ITS  ATTITUDE  TOWARDS  THE 
OLP.  A  Sermon.  By  Richard  Congreve.  12mo.  sewed,  pp.  34.  1859.  3d. 

Congreve.  —  ITALY  »£ND  THE  *WSSTERN  POWERS.  By  Ricnard 
Congreve.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  18.  1860.  Gd.  »  • 

Congreve. — THE  PROPAGATION  OF  THE*  BELV^ION  OF  HUMANITY.   A 

Sermon  preached  at  South  Fields,  Wands woi|h,  ,19th  January,  1860,  on  the 
Anniversary  of  the  Birth  of  Auguste  Comte,  19th  January,  1^8.  By  Richard 
Congreve.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  22.  1860.  1*.  i 


20  Publicat'-ons  of  Trubner  fy  Co. 

Congreve, — THE  LABOUR  QUESTION.  By  Richard  Congreve.  Post 
Svo.  sewed,  pp.  24.  1861.  4<Z. 

Congreve. — ELIZABETH  OF  (ENGLAND.  Two  Lectures  delivered  at 
the  Philosophical- Institution,  Edinburgh,  January,  1862.  By  Richard  Congreve. 
7  Snio.  sewed.  Pp.  114.  1862.  2s.  6d. 

Congreve. — GIBRALTAR  ;  OR,  THE  FOREIGN  POLICY  OF  ENGLIJSTD.  By 
Eichard  Congreve,  M. A.  Second  Edition.  Svo.,  pp.  70,  sewed.  1864.  1*.  6d 

Congreve. — IRELAND.      By  Richard    Congreve,  MA.C    M.R.C.P.L. 

8vo.  pp.  40,  sewed.    1868.     Is. 

Contopoulos.— A  LEXICON  OF  MODERN  GREEL:  .ENGLISH  AND  ENGLISH 
MODERN  GREEK.  By  N.  Contopoulos.  First  Part  Modern  Greek- English, 
8vo.,  pp.  460,  cloth.  1868.  12*.  •  . 

Constitution  of  the  United  States,, with  an  Index  to  each  Article  and 
Section.  By  a  Citizen  of  Washington.  Svo.  Pp.  64,  sewed.  1850...  2*.  jf 

Cornelia. — A  NOVEL.     Foot  8vo.,  pp.  ^50.    Boards.     1863.     Is.  6d. 

Cornet. —  A  MANUAL  OF  RUSSIAN  AND  ENGLISH  CONVERSATION.  By 
Julius  Cornet.  12mo.  Boards.  Pp.  424.  1858.  3s.  Qd. 

Cornwallis. —  SELECTIONS  FROM  THE  LEVERS  OF  CAROLINE  FRANCES 
CORNWALLIS,  Author  of  "  Pericles,"  "  Small  \T5ooks  on  Great  Subjects,"  etc. 
Also  some  Unpublished  Poems,  Original  and  (  Translated.  1  Vol.  Svo.  cloth, 
pp.  xv.  and  482.  1864.  12s.  V 

Cotta,  Yon. — G-EOLOGY  AND  HISTORY.  A  popular  Exposition  of  all 
that  is  known  of  the  Earth  and  its  inhabitants  in  pre-historic  times.  By  Bern- 
hard  Von  Cotta,  Professor  of  Geology  at  the  Academy  of  Mining,  Freiberg,  in 
Saxony.  12mo.,  pp.  iv.  and  84,  cloth.  1865.  Is. 

Cotton. — THE  FAMINE  IN  INDIA.  Lecture  by  Major-General  Sir 
Arthur  Cotton,  R.E.,  KG. S.I.  (late  Chief  Engineer,  Madras).  Read  at  the 
Social  Science  Congress,  at  Manchester,  October  12,  1866,  and  printed  at  the 
request  of  a  Special  Committee  by  the  Cotton  Supply  Association.  Svo. 
sewed.  Pp.  46.  1866,  Is. 

Coupland. — SHALL  WE  NOT  Go  FORWARD  ?  A  Discourse  delivered 
in  the  Unitarian  Chapel,  Bridgewater.  By  William  Chattertpn  Coupland,  B.A., 
B.Sc.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  20.  1865.  Is. 

Coupland. — INCENTIVES  TO  A  HIGHER  LIFE.  Discourses  by  William 
Chatterton  Coupland,  B.A.,  B.Sc.  Fcap,  Svo.  cloth.  Pp.  xi.  and  148.  18,66. 
2s.  6d. 

Courtenay. — RELIGIOUS  PERSECUTION^  Report  of  the  Prosecution 
at  Bow  Street.  The  Queen  versus  Dumergue.  From  the  shorthand  Xotes  of 
John  Kelley  Courtenay.  Svo.  sewed,  pp.  12.  1867.  Id. 

Cousin. — ELEMENTS  OF  PSYCHOLOGY  :  included  in  a  Critical  Exami- 
nation of  Locke's  Essay  on  the  Human  Understanding,  and  in  additional  pieces. 
Translated  from  the  French  of  Victor  Cousin,  with  an  Introduction  and  Notes. 
By  Caleb  S.  Henry,  D.D.  Fourth  im'prove^  Editicn,  revised  according  to  the 
Author's  last  corrections.  Crown  8vo.,  cloth,  pp.  568.  1864.  7s. 

Cousin. — THE  PHILOSOPHY,  ex?  KANT.     Lectures  by  Victor  Cousin. 

Translated  from  the  French.  '  To  which  is  added  a  Biographical  and  Critical 
Sketch  of  Kant's  Life  and  Waitings.  By  A.'-'G.  Henderson.  Large  post  Svo., 
cloth,  pp.  xciV.  and  194.  1864.  "9s. 


Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co.  )   21 

CoVan, —  CURIOUS  FACTS  IN  THE  HISTORY  OF  INSECTS.     By  Frank 
'Cowan.     Crown  Svo.,  ft.  396.     Cloth.     1865.     7*.  Bel. 

Cotoell. — PRAKRITA-PRAKASA  ;  or,  the  Prakrit  Grammar  of  Vara- 
ruchi,  with  the  Commentary  (M^norama)  of  Bhamaha ;  the  first  complete 
Edition  of  the  Original  Text,  with  various  Readings  from  -A  collection  of  Six 
"MSS.  in  the  Bodleian  Library ht  Oxford,  and  the  Libraries  of  the  Royal  Asiatic 
Society  and  the  East  India  House  ;  with  Copious  Notes,  an  English  Translation, 
and  Index  of  Prakrit  Words,  to  which  is  prefixed  an  Easy  Introduction  to 

»  Prakrit  Grammar.  By  EdwJrd  Byles  Cowell,  of  Magdalen  Hall,  Oxford.  Pro- 
fessor of  San~jirit  at  Cambridge.  Cloth.  New  Editjpn,  with  New  Preface, 
Additions,  and  Corrections.  Second  jfeue.  8vo.,  pp.  xxxi.  and  204.  Cloth. 
1868.  14*.  i  ,,  j  ' 

Cowp&r, — POPERY''-ANP  COMMON  SENSE.  A  Poem.  By  William 
Cowpe*r.-  Post-8vo.,  sewed,  pp.  8.  1866.  6d. 

Cox. — A  MONOGRAPH  OF  AUSTRALIAN  LAN*  SHELLS.  By  James 
f»  Cox,  M.D.  Univ.  Edin.,  F.R.C.S.  Edin.,  Corresponding  Member  of  the 
Zoological  Society  of  London,  Correspondent  of  fise  Acattemy  of  Natural  Sciences 

•  t  of  Philadelphia,  Member  of,  Royal  Medical  Society  of  Edinburgh,  Royal  and 
Entomological  SocietieiN  of  New  South  Wales.  8vo.  pp.  v.  and  112.  Illustrated 
by  18  plates,  sewed.  1^68.  £2  2s. 

Cracroft.  —  ESSAYS,  POLITIC.^  AND  MISCELLANEOUS.  By  Barnard 
Cracroft,  M.A.,  Trinity  College,  Cambridge.  Reprinted  from  various  sources. 
Two  Volumes.  Crown  8vo.,  jp.  xvi.  and  322,  pp.  xvi.  and  320,  cloth.  21s. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  I.      * 

The  Session  of  I860.  • 

The  State  of  Affairs  in  January,  1867. 
Analysis  of  the  House  of  Commons  in  18G7. 
The  Session  of  1867. 


SOCIAL  ARTICLES: 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  II. 
The  Jews  of  Western  Europe. 
Arabian  Nights. 
Greek  Anthology. 
Ovid  as  a  Satirist. 
Plautus. 

Translation  at  Cambridge. 
On  a  Translation  of  Tacitus. 
Professor  Conir^ton's  Horace. 
Professor  Coniugtou's  jEneid. 
Hiawatha  translated  into  Latin. 
Sir  Kingston  James'  Tasso., 
M.  Karcher's  Rienzi, 
The  Etchin    Club. 


Magnanimity. 

Work. 

Praise. 

Vanity. 

The  Talent  of  looking  like  a  Pool  with 

propriety. 
Jealousy, 
Hatred. 
Cruelty. 

Intellectual  Playfulness. 
Englishmen's  Arguments. 
Manners. 

,Private  Theatricals. 
County  Balls. 

Landladies  and  Laundresses. 
Man  and  Bee. 

Cranbrook, — CREDIBILIA  ;  or,  Discourses  on  Questions  of  Christian 
FAITH.  By  the  Rev.  James  Cranbrook,  Edinburgh.  Reissue.  Post  8vo.,  pp. 
iv.  and  190,  cloth.  1868.  3s.  6d. 

Cranbrook, — THE  FOUNDERS  OF  CHRISTIANITY*  ;  or,  Discourses  upon 
the  Origin  of  the  Christian  Religion.  By  the  Rev.  James  Cranbrook,  Edin- 
burgh. P<jst  8vo.,  pp.  xji.  and  324.  ,1868.  6s.  , 

Crawford. — THE  PLURALITY  OF  THE*  EACES  OF  ^MAN.  A  Discourse 
delivered  by  John  Crawfurd,  Esq.,  F.R.S.,  President  of  the  Ethnological  Society 
at  Martin's  Hall,  January  13th,  1867,  withi Explanatory  Notes.  Also  the 
Inaugural  Address  of  J.  Baxter  ^Langley,  Esq.,  Jjt.R^C.S.,  F.L.S.  8vo.,  sewed, 
pp.  12.  1867.  Id.  '  ^ 


The  Etching  C 

Macaroneaira. 

Professor  Tyndall  on  Heat.      . 

Professor  Tyndall  on  Sound. 

Burton's  Anatomy  of  Melancholy. 

Dreamthorp. 

Mr.  Forsyth's  Life  of  Cicero. 

The  worldly  Wisdom  of  Bacon. 

Life  and  Times  of  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds. 

Mr.  Robert  Leslie  Ellis. 

Madame  de  Tracy. 

Madame  de  Sevigne'. 


22  <  Publications  of  Tr'dlner  Sf  Co. 

Crosskeyi — A  DEFENCE  OF  RELIGION.  By  Henry  W.  CrossLey. 
Pp.  48.  12mo.  sewed.  1854.  1*.  <r 

Current  (The)  Gold  and  Silver  Coins  of  all  Countries,  their  Weight 

and  Fineness,  and  their  Intrinsic  Value  ip  English  Money,  with  Facsimiles  of 
the  Coins.  By  Leopold  C.  Martin,  of  He:;  Majesty's  Stationery  Office,  and 
'Charles  Triibner.  In  one  volume,  medium  8vc,,  141  Plates,  printed  in  Gold  and 
Silver,  and  representing  about  1,000  Coins,  with  160  pages  of  Text,  handsomely 
bound  in  embossed  cloth,  richly  gilt,  with  Emblematical  Designs  on  the  Cover, 
and  gilt  edges.  1863.  ±'2  2s. 

This  work,  which  the  P&blishers  have  mud  pleasure  in  offering  to  the  Public,  contains  a 
series  of  the  Gold  and  Silver  Coins  of  the  whCle  worM  current  during  the  present  century. 
The  collection  amounts,  numerically,  to  nearly  a  thousand  speciaen&l,  comprising,  with  their 
reverses,  twice  that  number ;  and  the  Publishers  feel  confident  MiaA  it  is  as  nearly  complete 
as  it  was  possible  to  make  it. 

It  seems  almost  superfluous  to  allude  to  the  utility  of  the  w  irk.  It  is  evidenf  that  it  must 
become  a  highly  valuable  Handbook  to  the  Bullion-dealer  and  the  Monej'-changeT  ;  and  to 
the  Merchant  apd  Banker  it  will  prove  a  SUP  and  safe  work  of  reference,  from  the  extreme 
accuracy  of  its  details  and  computations.  •• 

The  elegance  and  spleud  ,ur  of  the  work  admirably  adapt  it  as  a  choice  and  instructive 
ornament  to  the  drawing  >;oom  table  ;  the  amusement  to  be  found  in  the  comparison  of 
the  taste  of  different  countries  as  exemplified  in  their  Coirjs,  may  chase  away  many  a  half- 
hour's  ennui.  '  •* 

In  the  valuation  of  the  substantial  Coins,  and  the  notation  of  their  relative  worth  in 
English  money,  the  minutest  accuracy  has  been  obser  'ed,  as  also  in  the  statements  of  their 
relative  purity,  which  are  given  according  to  tbe  legal  (Mint  regulations  of  each  country.  In 
exceptional  cases  only,  where  official  information  Was \>Tt  to  be  obtained  of  the  weight  and 
fineness  of  the  Coins,  assays  as  found  at  different  places;  ,Sre  reported. 

The  exact  weight  of  the  Coins  is  expressed  both  in -English  troy  grains  and  in  French 
grammes,  and  the  fineness  by  the  Engish  technical  tei*  is  as  well  as  in  French  millie'mes  ; 
the  general  tendency  of  our  time  towards  the  decimal  metrical  system  makiug  su<ph  a  nota- 
tion almost  indispensable,  tor  easier  reference,  tables  of  British  reports  for  niillie'mes  of 
gold  and  silver  have  been  affixed. 

Da  Costa. — MEDICAL  DIAGNOSIS  :  with  Special  References  to  Prac- 
*  tical  Medicine.    By  J.  M.  Da  Costa,  M.D.    2nd   edition  revised.     8vo.  cloth, 
pp.  784.     1866.     24s. 

Dadabhai, — THE  EUROPEAN  AND  ASIATIC  RACES.  Observations  on 
Mr.  Cra\vfurd's  Paper  read  before  the  Ethnological  Society.  By  Dadabhai 
Navroji.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  32.  1866.  Is. 

Dalton. — A  TREATISE  ON  HUMAN  PHYSIOLOGY.  For  the  Use  of 
Students  and  Practitioners  of  Medicine.  By  John  C.  Dalton,  Jun.,  M.D.  Third 
Edition,  revised  and  enlarged.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  706.  1866.  21*. 

Dana. — A  TEXT-BOOK  OF  GEOLOGY,  designed  for  Schools  and 
Academies.  By  J.  D.  Dana,  LL.D.  Illustrated  by  -375  Woodcuts.  Crown 
8vo.,  cloth,  pp.  vi.  and  354.  1864.  7s.  Qd. 

Dana. — MANUAL  OF  GEOLOGY  ;  treating  of  the  Principles  of  the 
Science,  with  Special  Reference  to  American  Geological  History.  For  the  Use 
of  Colleges,  Academies,  and  Schools  of  Science.  By  James  D.  Dana,  M.A., 
LL.D.  Illustrated  by  a  Chart  of  the  World,  and  over  One  Thousand  Figures, 
mostly  from  American  Sources.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  798.  1866.  21s. 

Dana. — MANUAL  OF  MINERALOGY  ;  including  Observations"  on  Mines, 
Rocks,  Reduction  of  Ores,  and  the  Applications  of  the  Science  to  the  Arts ; 
designed  for  the  Use  of  Schools  -'and  Colleges.  By  James  D.  Dana.-.  New  edi- 
tion, revised  and  enlarged.  >Vith  260  Illustrations.  12mo.,  pp.  xii.  and  456. 
1867.  7s.  6d.  *  f  < 


Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co.  j     23 

Italia,  —  X    SYSTEM    OF    MINERALOGY,    DESCRIPTIVE    MINERALOGY, 
comprising  the  most  '^cent  Discoveries.      By  James  Dwight  Dana  and  George 
t  Jarvis  Brush.     Fiftl/edition.     1  vol.  8vo.,  pp  874.     1868.     £1  16s. 

i 

Darby,  —  EUGGIERO  VIVALDI  and  other  Lays  of  Ita^y.     By  Eleanor 
...  Darby.     8vo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.,Jhd  208.     1865.     5s. 

f  '        •*  *" 

Day,  —  THE  LAND  OF  THE.  PERMAULS,  or  Cochin,  its  Past  and  its 

,      Present.     By  Francis  Day,*Esq.,  F.L.S.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  577.     1863.     25s. 

Deichmaim.—  NEW  TAI*LES  to  facilitate  the"**  Practice  of  Great 
Circle  Sailing,  together  with  an  Application  of  the  Theory  of  the  great  Circle 
or,  the  Globe  to  *Ve*  sailing,  and  an  Appendix,  containing  some  mathematical 
demonstrations.  Accompanied  by  a  seal*  of  great  circles  on  a  blank  chart,  to 
determine  without  calculation  the  great  circle  which  passes  through  two  given 
places,  and"*  to  show  the  places  at  ;which  the  spkerical  courses  expressed  in 

v  jour  tbjsofi  the  point,  take  place  on  the  great  circle's  arc  between  the  two  given 
pla-ses.  By  A.  H.  Deichmann.  8vo.  boards,  rip.  viii.  and  88.  1857.  5s. 

'  Delepierre,  —  HISTOIIVE  f  EITTERAIRE  DBS    Fous.     Par  Octave  Dele- 

pierre.     184.     1860.  '  5s. 

""  « 

Delepierre,  —  ANALYSE  DE^  TRAVATIX  DE  LA  SOCIETE  DBS  PHILO- 
KIKLON  DE  LONDRES.  Par  (fcctave  Delepierre.  Small  4to.,  pp.  yiii.  and  134, 
bound  in  the  Roxburghe  stile.  1862.  10s.  §d. 


"  It  is  probably  not  generally  known,  that  among  the  numerous  learned  associations  of  the 
British  metropolis  there  exists  on'e  called  the  Philobiblon  Society.  This  somewhat  exclusive 
union  of  bibliographic  philosophers  was  established  in  1863,  under  the  auspices  of  the  late 
Prince  Consort,  and  after  the  model  of  the  French  Academy  —  it  being  one  of  the  fundamental 
rules  of  f  he  Society  never  to  depass  in  number  the  immortal  Forty.  .  .  .  The  statutes  of  the 
Philobiblon  provided  for  the  annual  issue  of  a  volume  of  historical,  biographical,  critical,  and 
other  essays,  contributed  by  any  of  the  forty  members,  and  printed  in  a  very  limited  edition 
—not  a  siugle  book  to  be  disposed  of  for  money.  To  enhance  the  value  of  the  works  thus 
published,  it  was  arranged  that  every  member  should  receive  only  two  copies  of  each  volume, 
to  be  signed  by  the  president  and  secretary  of  the  society,  and  with  the  name  of  the 
possessor  on  the  title-page.  .  .  .  The  contents  of  this  half-a  dozen  semi-mysterious  and  rare 
•works  have  just  been  revi-aled  in  a  curious  little  book  published  by  Messrs.  Tnibner  and  Co., 
and  got  up  in  exact  imitation  of  the  products  of  Caxton's  press.  The  work  is  dedicated  by 
M.  Octave  Delepierre,  the  author,  to  the  Duke  D'Aumale,  the'patron  of  the  Philobiblon  since 
the  decease  of  Prince  Albert,  and  one  of  the  leading  members  from  the  beginning."  — 
Spectator. 


such  catalogues  as  these  are  to  istorical  and  literary  enqairers  can  only  be  estimated  by  those 
who  have  experienced  the  want  of  them.  .  .  The  gentlemen  whose  works  we  have  named  at 
the  head  of  this  paper,  have  done,  in  their  way  and  degree,  a  service  to  literature  which  may 
be  compared  with  those  rendered  by  the  compilers  of  the  Calendars  of  the  State  Papers."  — 

Satunluii  Jii'i'/fir.  I 

"  M.  Delepierre,  the  secretary,  is  also  a  very  important  contributor.  By  way  of  tantalizing 
the  public  he  issues  this  '  Analyse,"  which  is  a  descriptive  catalogue  of  tho  precious  rarities 
collected  by  the  society."—  Literary  Budget. 

"The  account  which  M.  Delepierre  gives  of  these  volume;>  makes  us  regret  that  their  con- 
tents have  remained,  as  he  tells  us.  almost  unknown  to  the  public,  since  many  of  the  contri- 
butions appear  to  be  of  muclj  interest."  —  Parthenon. 

Delepierre*.  —  MACAReflsrEANA*  ANDR/»;  overum  Nouveaux  Melanges  de 
Litterature  Macaronique.   Par  Octave  Delepierre.  Small  4to.,  pp.  180,  printed  by 
AVhittingham,  and  handsomely  bound  in  t)>e  Roxhairghe  style.     1862.     10s.  6d. 
,  This  Volume,  together  with  the  one  published  ^oy  the  Author  in  1852,  form 
the  couipletest  collection  of  that  peculiar  formpf  ?oetry  in  existence. 


24  Publications  of  Triibner  8$  Co. 

Deliberation  Or  Decision  ?  being  a  Translation  from  the  Danish,  of 
the  Reply  given  by  Herr  Raasloff  to  the  accusations  prewired  against  him  on  the 
part  of  the  Danish  Cabinet ;  together  with  an  Introdu  iory  Article  from  the 
Copenhagen  "  Dagbladet,"  and  Explanatory  Notes.  8vo.,  pp.  40,  sewcti1. 
1861.  Is. 

DeljJRCh. — THE  BEGINNER'S  COMPREHENSIVE  FRENCH  BOOK.  By 
J.Delpech,  French  Master  at  Christ's  Hospital;  Clown  8vo.  cloth^  pp.  viii. 
and  326.  1866.  4s.  Qd. 

Demarteail. — GALVANIZED  IRON,  AND  ITS  APPLICATION  :  A  Treatise 
by  A.  Demarteau  on  J.<,and  G.  Winniwarter's  Galvanizing  and  'Lead  Works  at 
Gunipoldskirchen.  Oblong  royal  8vo.,  pf.  viii.  42.  1862.  2s.  6d. 

Dennys. — THE  TREATY  PORTS  OF  CHINA  AND'  JAP>K.  A  complete 
Guide  to  the  open  Ports  of  those  Countries,  together  with  Peking,  Yed^  Hong- 
Kong,  and  Macao.  Forming  a  Guide  Book  and  Va."'e  Mecuni  for  Travellers, 
Merchants,  and  Residents  'In  general.  (With  29  Maps  and  Plans.  With  Index 
to  Hong  Kong,  Canton,  Macao,  Swatow,  Amoy,  Foochow,  Formosa  (General), 
Takao,  Taiwanfoo,  Tttmsui,  .-Kelung,  Ningpo,  Shanghai,  Yangtz  River, 
Chinkiang,  Nanking,  Kinkiang,  Hankow,  ChefoQ,  Taku,  Tientsing,  'Peking,  . 
Newchang,  Japan  (General),  Nagasaki,  Yokohama,  YecLo,  Hakodadi  and  Hiogo. 
Appendices,  viz.,  Means  of  Transport  between  England,  France,  and  America, 
and  China  and  Japan.  French  Mail  Steam  Ships,  Compagnie"'"des  Services 
Maritimes  des  Messageries  Imperiales.  Extract Y^om  Handbook  of.Information. 
Overland  Route  to  India,  China,  and  Japan.  VThe  Pacific  Mail  Steamship 
Company.  Alfred  Holt's  Line  of  Steamers  frotfH  Liverpool  to  China,  via  the 
Cape  of  Good  Hope.  Distances  in  Nautical  Mile's  from  Shanghae  to  Towns  on 
the  Yang-tse-Kiang,  and  Catalogue  of  Books,  etc.,  in  China  and  Japan.  By 
William  Frederick  Mayers,  F.R.G.S.,  Her  Majesty's  Consular  Service,  N.  B. 
Dennys,  late  Her  Majesty's  Consular  Service,  and  Charles  King,  Lieutenant 
Royal  Marine  Artillery.  Compiled  and  Edited  by  N.  B.  Dennys.  8vo.  Half 
bound,  pp.  668,  xlviii.  and  26.  1867.  42s. 

De  Tracy. — ESSAIS  DIVERS,  LETTRES  ET  PENSEES  de  Madame  de 
Tracy.  3  volumes.  12mo.,  paper  covers,  pp.  iv.  404,  360,  and  388.  1852, 
1854,  and  L855.  II.  Is. 

De  Veitelle. — MERCANTILE  DICTIONARY;  a  Complete  Vocabulary  of 
the  Technicalities  of  Commercial  Correspondence,  Names  of  Articles  of  Trade, 
and  Marine  Terms  in  English,  Spanish,  and  French.  With  Geographical  Names, 
Business  Letters,  and  Tables  of  the  Abbreviations  in  Common  Use  in  the  three 
Languages.  By  J.  De  Veitelle.  Crown  8vo.  ctoth,  pp.  302.  1864.  7s. 

De  Yere, — STUDIES  IN  ENGLISH  ;  or,  Glimpses  of  the  Inner  Life  of 
our  Language.  By  M.  Schele  de  Vere,  LL.D.,  Professor  of  Modern  Languages 
in  the  University  of  Virginia.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  vi.  and  365.  1867.  10s.  6d. 

Dewey, — AMERICAN  MORALS  AND  MANKERS.  By  Orville  Dewey, 
D.D.  Svo.,  pp.  32,  sewed.  1844.  Is. 

Diary  OF  A  POOR  YOUNG  GENTLEWOMAN.  Translated  from  the 
German,  by  M.  Anna  ChiMs.  Cro.vn  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  224.  1860.  3s.  6d. 

Dickinson's,  (John),  Pamphlets  relating  to  Indian  Affairs, 

THE  FAMINE  IN  THE  NORTH-WEST  PROVINCES  OF  INDIA  :  How  we  might  have 
prevented  it,  and  niUy  prevent  another.  8vo.  pp.  36,  sewed.  1861.  Is. 

OBSTRUCTIONS  TO  TRADE  fjf  IrnfA.  A  Letter  to  P.  C.  Brown,  Esq.,  of 
Tellicherry.  With  his "  Re/My.  Edited  by  John  Dickinson.  Svo.  pp^  15, 
sewed.  1861.  6<f. 


Publications  of  Tr'dbner  fy  Co.  !>    25 

t 

(JoHK),  Pamphlets  relating  to  Indian  Affairs — (continued}. 

ADDRESS  TO  THE  ME:*BERS  OF  THE   HOUSE    OF    COMMONS    on     the    Eelation 
between  the  C(*tton   Crisis  and    Public  Works  in  India.      8vo.    pp.  39, 
»       sewed.     1862.     6d.  » 

OBSTRUCTIONS  TO   TRADE   IN    INDIA.     A  Letter.     By  F.  »C.  Brown,  Esq.,  of 
.,,          Tellicherry.     Edited   by,John  Dickinson.     8vo.  pp.  20,  sewed.     1862.^  6d. 

REMARKS  ON  THE  INDIAN  RAILWAY  EEPORTS  PUBLISHED  BY  THE  GOVERN- 
MENT, and  Ileasons  for  a  Change  of  Policy  in  India.  8vo.  pp.  32,  sewed. 
.  1862.  6d.  »  • 

A  LETTER  TC»  LORD  STAXXEY,  M.P.,  etc.,  etc.,  on  tha»Policy  of  the  Secretary 
of  State  for  India.  By  John  DSjkinson.  8vo.  pp.  40,  sewed.  1863.  6d. 

DHAR  NOT  EEST^RJI.:),  ii4  Spite  of  the  House  of  Commons  and  of  Public 
Opinion.  ByJeJm  Dickinson.  8vp.  pp.  110,  cloth.  1864.  Is. 

SEQUEL"  TO  "DHAR  xoj  RESTORED,"  and  a  Proposal  to  Extend  the  Principle 
'of  Eestforation.  By  John  Dickinson.  8vo.  sfcwed,  pp.  35.  1865.  Is. 

•LETTERS  TO  MALCOLM  Moss,  ESQ.,  President  of  the   Manchester  Chamber  of 

'Commerce.     By  John  Dickinson,  F.E.A»6,  etc.,*etc.,  and  John   Malcolm 

,  Ludlow,   Barrister   at  .Law,  author  of  "  British  India,  its  Eaces    and  its 

History,"  "  The  )Ya'r  in  Oude,"  etc.,  etc.  8vo.  pp.  16,  sewed.  1866.  6d. 
EESULTS  OP    IRRIGATION  WORKS    IN    GODAVERY    DISTRICT,    and    Eeflections 
-  upon  them.     By  Major- general  Sir  Arthur  Cotton,  E.E.  Part  I.    8vo.  pp. 
15,  and  Appendix,  sewe;f  1866.  6d.  Part  II.  8vo.   pp.  11,  sewed.  1866.    6d. 

Dictionary  AND  COMMERCIAL  PHRASEOLOGY  in  the  German,  Dutch, 
English,  French(j  Italian,  and  Spanish  Languages,  including  a  complete 
Catalogue  of  Goods,  and  Five  Tables  of  Eeferences  in  the  above  Languages. 
Compiled  by  Prof.  Dr.  Brutzer,  Prof.  Dr.  Binder,  Messrs.  J.  Bos  Iz,  M.  W. 
Brasch  and  others.  8vo.  pp.  544,  cloth.  1868.  10s. 

Dirckinck-Holmfeld, — ATTIC  TRACTS  ON  DANISH  AND  GERMAN  MAT- 
TERS. By  Baron  C.  Dirckinck-Holmfeld.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  116.  1861.  Is. 

Dircks. — THE  CENTURY  OF  INVENTIONS,  written  in  1655  ;  by 
Edward  Somerset,  Marquis  of  Worcester.  Now  first  translated*  into  French 
from  the  first  edition,  London,  1663.  Edited  by  Henry  Dircks,  C.E.,  LL.D., 
F.E.S.E.,  M.E.S.L.,  etc.,  Author  of  "The  Life  of  She  Marquis  of  Worcester," 
"  Worcesteriana,"  etc.,  etc.  Crown  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  62.  1868.  Is. 

Discussion  (A)  AMONG  UPWARDS  OF  250  THEOLOGICAL  INQUIRERS  ON 
THE  UNITY,  DUALITY,  AND  URINITY  or  THE  GODHEAD.  With  Discussions  on 
the  Creation,  Fall,  Incarnation,  Atonement,  Eesurrection,  Infallibility  of  Scrip- 
ture, Inspiration,  Miracles,  Future  Punishment,  Eevision  of  the  Bible,  etc. 

'  8vo.  cloth,  pp.206.     1864.     6s. 

Doherty, — ORGANIC  PHILOSOPHY;  or,  Man's  True  Place  in  Nature. 

Vol.  I.    Epicosmology.     By  Hugh  Doherty,  M.D.    8vo.  cloth,    pp.  408.  1864. 

10s. 
Doherty. — ORGANIC  PHILOSOPHY.  Volume  II.    Outlines  of  Ontology, 

Eternal  Forces,  Laws,  and  Principles.     By  Hugh*Doherty,  M.D.    8vo.  pp.  vi. 

and  462.     1867.     12s. , 

Doherty,— PniLOSoitftY    OF»  E^LIOTON.     By  Hugh   Doherty,  *M.D. 

8vo.  sewed,  pp.  48.     1865.     Is.  »         » 

Dohne. — THE  FOUR  GOSPELS  IN  ZULUA  S5y  the  Eev.  J.  L.  Dohne, 
^sionary  to  the  American  B,oard  C.  F.  M.  ^vo»  pp.  208,  cloth.  Pietermaritz- 
tiurg,  1866.  5s.  \ 


26      \  Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co. 


,  —  A  ZULU-  KAFIR  DICTIONARY,  etymologically  explained 
with  copious  illustrations  and  examples,  preceded  by^an  introduction  on  the 
Zulu-Kafir  Language.  By  the  Rev.  J.  L.  Dohne.  Rdyal  8vo.  pp.  xlii.  418,. 
sewed.  Cape  Town,  1867.  21s.  < 

Dolgoroukow.  —  LJ(  VERITE  SUR  LE  TRCCES  du  Prince  Pierre 
Do^goroukow,  par  un  Russe.  32mo.  sewed.  pp.rli4.  1862.  8s. 

DolgoroilkOw",  —  LA  FRANCE  sous  LE  REGIME  BONAPARTISTE,-  par  le 
Prince  Pierre  Dolgoroukow.  2  volumes.  12mo.  paper,  pp.478.  1864.  10s. 

D.  0,  M,  —  THE  TRIUNE  ;  or,  the  New  Religion.  By  Scrutator.  8vo. 
cloth,  pp.  ii.  and  50.  l&Y.  2s. 

Dominquey's  HISTORY  OF  THE  ARGENTINA  RrpUBLin.  Volume  I. 
(1492  to  1807),  Translated  from  the  Spanish.  By  J.  W.  "Wtfiiams.  Royal  8vo. 
sewed,  pp.  vii.  and  149.  Buenos  Ayre's.  1865.  9s.  *,  < 

D'Orsey.  —  COLLOQUIAL  PORTUGUESE  j  or,  Woras  and  Phrases  of 
Every-day  Lite.  Compiled  from  Dictation  and  Conversation.  For  the  Use  pf 
English  Tourist*  in  Portugal,  Brazil,  Madeira,  etc.  By  A.  J.  D.  D'Orsey.  Third 
Edition,  enlarged.  12mo.  clotn,  pp.  viii.  and^-126.  1868.  3s.  6d. 

D'Orsey.  —  A  PRACTICAL  GRAMMAR   OF  PORTUGUESE   AND   ENGLISH, 

exhibiting  in  a  Series  of  Exercises,  in  Double  Translation,  the  Idiomatic  Struc- 
ture of  both  Languages,  as  now  written  and  spoken.  Adapted  to'Ollendorff's 
System  by  the  Rev.  Alexander  J.  D.  D'Orsey,  oi  Corpus  Christi  College,  Cam- 
bridge, and  Professor  of  the  English  Language  in  that  University.  Third 
edition.  In  one  vol.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  29^.  1868.  7s.  Qd. 

D'Orsey,  —  A  PORTUGUESE-ENGLISH  AND  ENGLISH-PORTUGUESE  DIC- 
TIONARY. By  Rev.  Alex.  J.  D.  D'Orsey.  [In  preparation. 

Dour  and  Bertha,     A  Tale.     18mo.    pp.  vi.  and  72,  sewed.     1848. 

Is. 
Druflnnond.  —  PRESIDENT    LINCOLN  AND  THE  AMERICAN  WAR.     A 

Funeral   Address,  delivered  on  Sunday,  April  3Cth,  1865.  By  Robert  Blackley 

Drummond,  B.A.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  12.  1865.     3d. 

Duncanson.,—  THE  PROVIDENCE  OF  GOD  MANIFESTED  IN  NATURAL 
LAW.  By  John  Duncanson,  M.D.  Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  v.  and  354.  1861.  7*. 

Dlingiison.  —  MEDICAL  LEXICON.  A  Dictionary  of  Medical  Science. 
containing  a  concise  explanation  of  the  various  subjects  and  terms  of  Anatomy, 
Physiology,  Pathology,  Hygiene,  Therapeutics,  Pharmacology,  Pharmacy, 
Surgery,  Obstetrics,  Medical  Jurisprudence,  and*Dentistry.  Notices  of  Climate 
.  and  of  Mineral  Waters.  Formulae  for  Official,  Empirical,  and  Dietetic  Prepara- 
tions, with  the  accentuation  and  etymology  of  the  terms,  and  the  French  and 
other  Synonymes,  so  as  to  constitute  a  French  as  well  as  English  Medical 
Lexicon.  By  Robley  Dunglison,  M.D.,  LL.D.,  Professor  of  the  Institute  of 
Medicine,  etc.,  in  the  Jefferson  Medical  Collegi1  of  Philadelphia.  New  edition, 
thoroughly  revised,  and  very  greatly  modified  and  augmented.  Roy.  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.  1048.  1866.  24s. 

Dunlop.  —  BRAZIL  AS  A  .,  FIELD  <,  FOR  EMIGRATION.  Its  Geography, 
Climate,  Agricultural  Capabilities,  and  the  Facilities  afforded  for  Permanent 
Settlement.  By  Charles  Dunlop.  Post  8y.o.  sewed,  pp'!  32.  1866.  &d. 

Dwigtit.  —  MODERN  PHILOLOGY  ;  itk  Discoveries,  Sistory  and  Influ- 
ence. With  Maps,  Tabular  ^iews,  and  an  Index.  By  Benjamin  "W.  Dwight. 
First  Series.  Third  edition^  re^isfed  and  corrected.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xviii.  and 
360.  1864.  .'; 

Second  Series.     8vo.  cloth',  pp.504.     1864.     1  vols.  8vo.     24s. 


Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co.  ij       27 

iSnglish  Meals  and  Manners.  *—  John  Eussell's  Boke  of 

Nurture,  Wynkyn  -Je  Worde's  Boke  of  Kervynge,  the  Boke  of  Curtasye, 
R.  Weste's  Booke  r/  Demeaaor,  Seager's  Schoole  of  Vertue,  the  Babee's  Book, 
*"  Aristotle's  ABC,  Urbanitatis,  Stans  Puer  fld  Mensam,  the  Lytylle  Childrenes 
Lytil  Boke,  for  to  serve  a  Lord,,  Old  Symon,  the  Birched  School-Boy,  etc.,  etc. 
With  some  Forewords  on  Education  in  Early  England.  Edited  by  Frederick  J. 
Furnivall,  M.A.,  Trinity  Hall,  Cambridge.  4to.,  pp.  c.  and  388.  "\\tith  16 
tables*)f  Illustrations."  ClcHh.  1868.  42*. 

Early  English  Text  Society's  Publications.  „ 

1864. 

1.  EARLY  ENGLISH  ALtiTERATivE^Po'EMS.      In  the^ "West-Midland  Dialect  of 

the   Fourteenth   Centurjr.      Edited   by  R.   Morris,   Esq.,  from   an  unique 
.       Cottonian  jftSfr     lib! 

2.  ARTHUR  (about  4440  A.D.).      Edited  by  F.  J.    Furnivall,   Esq.,  from  the 

i'ffarquis  of  Bathy  unique  M.S.     4*. 

S.'ANE   GOMPENDIOUS  AND   BREUE   TRACTATE  "C*NCERNYNG    YE    OFFICE    AND 
DEJVTIE  OF  KYNGIS,  etc.      By  "William  Lander.     (1556  *A.D.)     Edited  by 
,  "F.  Hall,  Esq.,  D.C.L.     4s. 

4.  SIR  GAWAYNE  AND  THE  OftiEEN  KKlQHT**(about  1320-30  A.D.).     Edited  by 

'R.  Morris,  Esq.,xt  fttorrf  an  unique  Cottonian  M.S.     10*. 
*  1865. 

5.  OF    tr/E    ORTHOGRAPHIC  AND    CONGRUITIE    OF    THE    BRITAN  TONGUE  ;    a 

treates,  noe  shorter  tha:/  necessarie,  for  the  Schooles,  be  Alexander  Hume. 
Edited  for  the  first  tin're  from  the  unique  MS.  in  the  British  Museum  (about 
1617  A.D.),  by  HenryjB.  Wheatley,  Esq.  4s. 

6.  LANCELOT  OF  THE  LAFK.     Edited  from  the  unique  M.S.  in  the  Cambridge 

University  Eibrary  (about  1500),  by  the  Rev.  Walter  W.  Skeat,  M.A.     8s. 

7.  THE    STORY  OF    GENESIS    AXD  EXODUS,  an    Early  English  Song,  of  about 

1250  A.D.  Edited  for  the  first  time  from  the  unique  MS.  in  the  Library  of 
Corpus  Christ!  College,  Cambridge,  by  R  Morris,  Esq.  8s. 

8.  MORTE  ARTHURE  ;   the  Alliterative  Y^rsion.     Edited  from  Robert  Thornton's 

unique  MS.  (about  1440  A.D.)  at  Lincoln.  By  the  Rev.  George  Perry,  M  A., 
Prebendary  of  Lincoln.  7*. 

9.  ANIMADVERSIONS    UPPO^    THE   ANNOTACIONS    AND    CORRECTIONS    OF    SOME 

IMPERFECTIONS  OF  IMPRESSIONES  OF  CHAUER'S  WORKES*  reprinted  in 
1598  ;  by  Francis  Thynne.  Edited  from  the  unique  MS.  in  the  Bridge- 
\vater  Library.  By  G.  H.  Kingsley,  Esq.,  M.D.  4s. 

10.  MEHLIN,  OR  THE  EARLY  HISTORY  OF  KING  ARTHUR.        Edited  for  the  first 

time  from  the  unique  MS.  of  the  Cambridge  University  Library  (about  1450 
A.D.).  By  Henry  B.  Wieatley,  Esq.  Part  I.  2s.  Qd. 

11.  TJIE  MONARCHE,   and  other  Poems  of  Sir  David  Lyndesay.      Edited  from 

the  first  edition  by  Johne  Skott,  in  1552.  By  Fitzedward  Hall,  Esq., 
D.C.L.  Part  I.  3s. 

12.  THE  WRIGHT'S  CHASTE  WIFE,  a  Merry  Tale,  by  Adam  of  Cobsam   (about 

1642  A.D.),  from  the  unique  Lambeth  MS.  306.     Edited  for  the  first  time 
by  F.  J.  Furnivall,  Esq-.^LA.     Is. 
1866. 

13.  SEINTE  MARHERETE,  YE  MEIDEN  ANT  MARTYR.       Three  Texts  of  about  1200, 

1310,  1330  A.D  First  edited  in  1£62.  By  the  Rev.  Oswald  Cockayne, 
M.A.,  and  now  re-issued.  2s. 

14.  IVYNG  HORN,  with*fragments  of  Floriz  and  Blanucheflur,  and  the  Assumption 

ot*the  Blessed  Virgin.  »Edite*d  fr«m  the  MS.  in  the  Library  of  the'Univer- 
sity  of  Cambridge  and  the  British  Museum,  By  the  Rev.  J.  Rawson 
Lumby.  3*.  6d.  t 

15.  POLITICAL,  RELIGIOUS,  AND  LOVE  POEMS,  Vom  the  Lambeth  MS.,  No.  306, 

and  other  sources.     Edited  by  F.  J.  Fufniv^ll,  Esq.,  M.A.     7s.  6d. 
16.  A  TRETICE  IN  ENGLISH   breuely  drsjwe  out  of  \>  book  c$  Quintis  essencijs  in 


THE  ^PARLIAMENT  OF  DEVILS,  and 
the  ILmbeth  MS.   853,  by  F.  J. 


28  Publications  of  Triibner  &;  Co. 

EARLY  English.  Text  Society's  Publications — (continued). 

Latyn,  J>  Hermys  \>  prophete  and  king  of  Egipt  after  £  flood  of  Noe,  fader  of 
Philosophies,  hadde  by  reuelacioim  of  an  aungil  of  God,,to  him  sente.  Edited 
from  the  Sloane  MS.  73.  By  F.  J.  Furnivall,  Esq.,  M.A.  Is. 

17.  PARALLEL  EXTRACTS  from  29  Manuscripts  of  PIERS  PLOWMAN,  with  Com- 

ments, and  a  Proposal  for  the  Society's  Tbree-text  edition  of  this  Poem. 
<$y  the  Rev.  W.  Skeat,  M.A.  Is.  L 

18.  HALI  MEIDENHEAD,  about  1200  A.D.      Edited  for  the  first  time  from  ^he  MS. 

(with  a  translation)  by  the  Rev.  Oswald  Cockayne,  M.A.     Is. 

19.  THE  MONARCHE,  and  other  Poems  of  Sir  David  Lyndesay.     Part  II.,  the 

Complaynt  of  the  King's  Papingo,  and  other  minor  Poems.  ,  Edited  from 
the  first  edition  by  P.  Hall,  Esq.,  D.C.L.  3s.  6d'. 

20.  SOME  TREATISES  BY  RICHARD  ROLLE'  DE  HAI-IPOLTI.      Edited   from   Robert 

of  Thorntone's  MS.  about  1440  A.D.  By  the  Rev.  George  j&.  Perry,  M.A.  -Is. 

21.  MERLIN,  OR  THE  EARLY  HISTORY  OF  KING  ARTHUR.     Part  II.     E^i.t^d  by 

Henry  B.  Wheatley,  Esq.     4s.  „ 

22.  THE  ROMANS  OF  PARTENAY,  OR  LUSI,RNEN.     Edited  for  the  first  time  from 

the  unique  MS.  in  the  Library  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge,  by  the  Rev. 
W.  W.  Skeat,  M.A.  "6s.  .- 

23.  DAN  MICHEL'S  AYENBITE  OF    INWYT,   or  Kemorse   of    Conscience,   in    the 

Kentish  dialect,  1340  A.D.     Edited  from  the  umqite  MS.  in  the  British 
Museum,  by  Richard  Morris,  Esq.     10s.  Gd. 
1867. 

24.  HYMNS    OF    THE  VIRGIN  AND  CHRIST  ;    THE  ^ 

Other  Religious  Poems.     Edited  from 
Furnivall,  M.A.     3s. 

25.  THE  STACIONS  OF  ROME,  and  the  Pilgrim's  Se£- Voyage  and  Sea-Sickness, 

with  Clene  Maydenhod.  Edited  from  the  Vernon  and  'Porkington  MSS., 
etc.  By  F.  J.  Furnivall,  Esq.,  M.A.  Is. 

26.  RELIGIOUS  PIECES  IN  PROSE  AND  VERSE.     Containing  Dan  Jon  Gaytrigg's 

Sermon;  The  Abbaye  of  S.  Spirit;  Sayne  Jon,  and  other  pieces  in  the 
Northern  Dialect.  Edited  from  Robert  of  Thorntone's  MS.  (about  1460 
A.D.)  by  the  Rev.  George  G.  Perry,  M.A.  2s. 

27.  MANIPULUS  VOCABULORUM  :  a  Rhyming  Dictionary  of  the  English  Language, 

by  Peter  Levens  (1570).  Edited,  with  an  Alphabetical  Index,  by  Henry 
B.  Wheadey.  12s. 

28.  THE  VISION  OF  WILLIAM  CONCERNING  PIERS  PLOWMAN,  together  with  Vita 

de  Dowel,  Dobet  et  Dooest.  1362  A.D.  By  William  Langland.  The  earliest 
or  Vernon  Text ;  Text  A.  Edited  from  the  Vernon  MS.,  with  full  Colla- 
tions. By  Rev.  W.  W.  Skeat,  M.A.  7s. 

29.  ENGLISH  GILDS,  their  Statutes  and  Customs,  with  an  Introduction  and  an 

Appendix  of  translated  Statutes.  Edited  from  the  MSS.  1389  A.D.  By 
Toulmin  Smith,  Esq.  [In  t he  press. 

30.  PIERCE  THE  PLOUGHMAN'S    CREDE    (about  1394).  Edited  from  the  MSS.  by 

the  Rev.  W.  W.  Skeat,  M.A.     2s. 

1868. 

31.  INSTRUCTIONS  FOR  PARISH  PRIESTS.     By  Jonn  Myrc.     Edited  from  Cotton 

MS.  Claudius  A.  II.  By  Edward  Peacock,  Esq.,  F.S.A.,  etc.,  etc.     4s. 

32.  THE  BABEES  BOOK,  Aristotle's  ABC,  Urbanitatis,  Stans  Puer  ad  Mensam, 

The  Lytille  Childrenes  Lytil  Boke.  The  Bokes  of  Nurture  of  Hugh  Rodes 
and  John  Russell,  Wynnyn  de  Worde's  Boke  of  Kervynge,  the  Booke  of 
Demeanor,  the  Boke  of  Curtasye,  Seager's  Schoole  of'Vertue,  etc.,  etc.  With 
sojie  French  and  Latin  Poems  on,  like  subjects,  atd,  some  Forewords  on 
Education  in  Early  England.  Edited  by  F. -J.  Furnivall,  M.A.,  Trinity 
Hall,  Cambridge.  15s. 

33.  THE  BOOK  OF  THE  KNIGH"/  DE  LA  TOUR  LANDRY,  1372.    A  Father's  Book 

for  his  Daughters.  Edited  f  rom  the  Harleian  MS.  1764.  By  Thomas 
Wright,  Esq.,  ,M.A.,  and  Mr.  vVilliam  Rossiter.'  8s. 


Publications  of  Triibner  &  Co.  ^       29 

„ 

Eastwick, — KHIRA^  AFROZ  (the  Illuminator  of  the  Understanding). 

By  Maulavi  Hafiz'i'd-din.     A  New  Edition  of  the  Hindustani  Text,  carefully 
V    K  "vised,   with   Notes,   Critical   and  Explanatory.      By  Edward   B.    East-rick, 

F.R.S.,  F.S.A.,    M.R.A.S.,  Professor  of  Hindustani   at  Haileybury    College. 

Imperial  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xiv^an'd  319.     Ee-issue,  1867.    '18s. 

Echo  j^DeutSChes),— »'Tm)    GERMAN    ECHO.       A  Faithful  Miftor  of 
German  Conversation.     By  Ludwig  "Wolfram.     With  a  Vocabulary.      By  Henry 
.P.  Skelton.     Post  8vo.,  p.p.  130  and  70.     Cloth.  „  1863.     3s. 

Echo  Franeais, — A  PRACTICAL  JJ-UIDE  TO  COWERSATION.  By  Fr.  de 
la  Fruston.'  With  a  complete  Vocabulary.  By  Anthony  Maw  Border.  Post 
8vo.,  pp.  120  a^dJ72.  'Clotn.  1860.  3s. 

Eco-Italiano  (£').'— A  PRACTICAL" GUIDE  TO  ITALIAN  CONVERSATION 
B^  Eugene  Garnering    With  a  complete   Vocabulary.      By  Henry  P.  Skelton 
.M      Post  8vo.,  pp.  vi.,  128  and  98.     CkAh.     1860.     Is.  Gd. 

ECO  de  Madrid, —  THE  ECHO  OF  MADRID.  *  A  Practical  Guide  to 
Spanish  Conversation.  JJy  J.*E.  Hartzenbusch,  and  Henry  Lemming.  With  a 
complete  Vocabulary,  "containing  Copious  Explanatory  Remarks.  By  Henry 
Lemming.  Post  8vo.,  pp.  xii.,  144  and  83.  Cloth.  1860.  5s. 

Edaljl,— rA  DICTIONARY.!  GUJAR!TI  AND  ENGLISH.  By  Shapurji 
Edalji.  Second  edition,  f/^vo.  pp.  xxiv.  874,  cloth.  1868.  £1  Is. 

Edalji, — A  GRAMMAR  $>F  THE  GUJARATI  LANGUAGE.  By  Shapurji 
Edalji.  Crown, 8vo.  cloth,  pp.  127.  1867.  10s.  Qd. 

Edda  S^EMUNDAR  HINNS  FRODA.  The  Edda  of  Sgemund  the  Wise. 
Translated  from  the  Old  Norse,  with  a  Mythological  Index.  Part  First.  Mytho- 
logical. 12mo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  152.  1866.  3*.  &d. 

Edda  S^EMUNDAR  HINNS  FRODA.  The  Edda  of  Ssemund  the  Learned. 
From  the  Old  Norse  or  Icelandic.  Part  II.,  Historical.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  viii. 
and  170.  London,  1866.  4s. 

Edda  STEMUNDAR  HINNS  FRODA.  The  Edda  of  Ssemund  the  Learned. 
Translated  from  the  Old  Norse,  by  Benjamin  Tho'rpe.  Complete  in  1  vol.  fcap. 
8vo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  152,  and  pp.  viii.  170.  1866.  .  Is.  6d. 

Edgar. — MODERN  TIMES,  THE  LABOUR  QUESTION,  AND  THE  FAMILY.  A 
Brief  Statement  of  Facts  and  Principles.  By  Henry  Edgar.  12mo.  sewed, 
pp.  24.  3d. 

'  Edgar, — THE  POSITIVIST'S  CALENDAR  ;  or,  Transitional   System  of 

Public  Commemoration,  instituted  by  Auguste  Comte,  Founder  of  the  Positive. 
Religion  of  Humanity.  Witii  a  Brief  Exposition  of  Religious  Positivism.  By 
Henry  Edgar.  12mo.  sewed,  pp.  103.  1856.  .  2s.  Qd. 

Edge. — MAJOR- GENERAL  MCCLELLAN  AND  THE  CAMPAIGN  ON  THE 
YOKKTOWX  PENINSULA.  By  Frederick  Mikies  Edge.  With  a  map  of 
the  Peninsula,  drawn  expressly  for  this  work,  by  James  Wyld,  Geographer  to 
the  Queen.  12mo.  ftp.  iv.  and  204.  1865.  4s. 

9  0  *  t 

Edwards. — MEMOIRS  OF  LIBRARIES,  together  with  a  Practical  Hand- 
book of  Library  Economy.  By  Edward  Edwards*  2  vols.  roy.  8vo.  Numerous 
illustrations.  Cloth.  Vol.  1,  pp.  xxviii.'and  8^1.  Vol.  2.  pp.  xxxvi.  and  1104. 

•  1859.     £2  8s. 

•»  *     » 

Ditto,  large  paper,  imperial  8vo.  cloth.     £4  4s.  * 


30  Publications  of  Tnibner  &;  Co. 

Edwards, — CHAPTERS  OF  THE  BIOGRAPHICAL  HISTORY  OF  THE  FRENCH 
ACADEMY.    1629 — 1863.     "With    an    Appendix     relating  >lto   the   Unpublished 
Chronicle  "Liber  de  Hyda."     By.Edward  Edwards,  Esq.     1  vol.  8vo.,  pp.  180. 
cloth.     1864.     6s. 
Ditto,  large  paper.  Roy.  8vo.  10s.  Qd. 

Edwards, — LIBRARIES   AND   FOUNDERS   OF  ^LIBRARIES.    By  Edward 
Edwards.    8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xix.  and  506.     1865.     18s. 
Ditto,  large  paper,  imperial  &vo.  cloth.     £1  10s. 

Edkins, — A  G-RAMMAI.  OF  THE  CHINESE  COLLOQUIAL  LANGUAGE, 
COMMONLY  CALLED  THE  MANDARIN  DIALECT.  'By  Joseph  Edkins.  8vo.,  pp. 
viii.  and  266,  sawed.  1857.  20s. 

Edkins. — PROGRESSIVE  LESSONS  IN  THE  CHINESE  SPOKEN  LANGUAGE, 
with  Lists  of  Common  Weeds  and  Phrases,  and  an  Appendix,  containing  the 
laws  of  tones  in"the  Peking  dialect.  8 vo.,  pp.  vi.  and  104,  sewed.  1862.  12s. 

Eger  and  Grime,— AN  EARLY  ENGLISH  ROMANCE.  Edited  from 
Bishop  Percy's  Folio  Manuscripts,  about  1650  A.D.  By  .John  "W.  Hales,  M.A., 
Fellow  and  late  Assistant  Tutor  of  Christ's  College,  Camuridge,  and  Frederick 
J.  Furnivall,  M.A.,  of  Trinity  Hall,  Cambridge.  1-to.  large  paper.  Falf  bound, 
Eoxburgh  style,  pp.  64.  1867.  10s.  6d.  *•. 

Elder. — BIOGRAPHY  OF  ELISHA  KENT  KANE*!  By  William  Elder. 
8vo.  pp.  416.  Cloth.  1858.  12s. 

Ellet. — THE  MISSISSIPPI  AND  OHIO  RIVERS  :  containing  Plans  for 
the  Protection  of  the  Delta  from  inundation,  and  Investigations  of  the  Practica- 
bility and  Cost  of  Improving  the  Navigation  of  the  Ohio,  and  other  Rivers,  by 
means  of  Reservoirs.  With  an  Appendix  on  the  Bars  at  the  Mouths  of  the 
Mississippi.  By  Charles  Ellet,  Junior,  Civil  Engineer.  8vo.  pp.  368.  Cloth. 
1853.  16s. 

Elliott. — THE  HISTORY  OF  INDIA  AS  TOLD  BY  ITS  OWN  HISTORIANS. 
The  Muhammadan  Period.  Edited  from  the  Posthumous  Papers  of  the  late  Sir 
H.  M.  Elliott,  K.C.B.,  East  India  Company's  Bengal  Civil  Service.  By  Pro- 
fessor John  Dowson,  M.R.A.S.,  Staff  College,  Sandhurst.  Vol.  I.  8vo.  cloth,  pp. 
xxxii.  and  541.  1867.  18s.  To  be  completed  in  three  volumes. 

Elliott, — MEMOIRS  ON  THE  HISTORY,  PHILOLOGY,  AND  ETHNIC  Dis- 

TKIBUTION    OF     THE    RACES    OF    THE     NORTH-WEST    PROVINCES  OF    IxDIA  :    being 

an  amplified  Edition  of  the  Glossary  of  Indian  Terms.  By  the  late  Sir  H.  M. 
Elliott,  K.C.B.  AiTanged  from  M.S.  materials  collected  by  him,  and  Edited  by 
Reinhold  Rost,  Ph.  D.,  Secretary  to  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society.  2  vols.  8vo.  In 
the  press. 

Emerson. — THE  YOUNG  AMERICAN.  A  Lecture.  By  Ralph  Waldo 
Emerson.  8vo.,  pp.  24.  1844.  Is. 

Emerson. — REPRESENTATIVE  MEN.  Seven  Lectures.  By  R.  W. 
Emerson.  Post  8vo.,  pp.  215,  cloth.  1850.  5s. 

Emerson,  —ESSAYS.  By  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  <  First  Series,  em- 
bodying the  Corrections  ard  Editions  of  the  last  American  edition  ;  with  aa 
Introductory  Preface,  by  Thomas  Carlyle,  reprinted  by  permission,  from  the 
first  English  Edition.  Post  8-M  pp.  viii.  and  192,  sewed.  1853.  2s. 

Emerson. — ESSAYS.  By  Ralpfc  Waldo  Emerson.  Second  Series, 
with  Preface  by  Thomas  Carlyle.  Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  vi.  and  190,  1858.  3s.  Gd. 


II 

Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co.  3 1 

Enierson, — POEMS.  By  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson.  1 6mo.  cloth.  Blue 
and  Gold  Series,  pp.  2&4.  With  portrait.  1865.  5s. 

'•  f 

Emerson. — ESSAYS.    By  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson.    First  and  Second 

Series.    Blue  and  Gold  Editiop.    'iGmo.  cloth,  gilt  edges,  pfj.  iv.  and  5 15.     5s. 

*  ». 

EmperOJ  OF  AUSTRIA  VERSVS  Louis  KOSSUTH.  A  few  words  of  Common 
Sense.  By  an  Hungarian.  8vo.  pp.28.  1861.  Is. 

Epistle,  AN.  r  In  Familiar  Verse.  To  a  Youjjg  Statesman.  By  a 
Loyal  Subject.  Post  8v6*.  sewed,  jfs.  11.  1867.  6rf.>" 

^    t       *        ' 

Ethnological  Jotbnal, — A  Monthly  Eecord  of  Ethnological  Research 
and.  Criticism.  Edited  by  Luke  Furke.  July,  1865,  to  March,  1866. 
Nos^.  1  to  7V  Is,  each ;  '»  and  9,  4d.  each. 

Ethnological    Journal,— A    MAGAZINE    OF    ETHNOGRAPHICAL    AND 

ANnauARiAN  SCIENCE.     Edited  by  Luke  Burfce.     NeV  Series.  No.  1.  January, 
1854^'   8vo.  pp.  90.  sewed. ,  3s.  od.    (No  more  published.) 

Everett.— SELF  GOVERNMENT  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES.  By  the  Hon. 
Edward  Er?<erett.  8vo.,  pp.  4k  sewed.  1860.  Is. 

r 

Everett. — THE  QTJESTIOK^  OF  THE  DAY.  An  Address.  By  Edward 
Everett.  Eoyal  8vo.  sewed-,  pp.  46.  1861.  Is.  6d. 

Ewbank. — A  DESCRIPTIVE  AND  HISTORICAL  ACCOUNT,  OF  HYDRAULIC 
AND  OTHER  MACHINES  TOR  RAISING  WATER,  Ancient  and  Modern,  with 
Observations  on  various  Subjects  connected  with  the  Mechanic  Arts :  including 
the  progressive  Development  of  the  Steam  Engine ;  Descriptions  of  every 
variety  of  Bellows,  Piston,  and  Rotary  Pumps ;  Fire  Engines,  "Water  Rams, 
Pressure  Engines,  Air  Machines,  Eolipiles,  etc. ;  Remarks  on  incient  Wells, 
Air  Beds,  Cog  Wheels,  Blow  Pipes,  Bellows  of  various  People,  Magic  Goblets, 
Steam  Idols,  and  other  Machinery  of  Ancient  Temples.  To  wh^ch  are  added, 
Experiments  of  Blowing  and  Spouting  Tubes,  and  other  original  Devices, 
Natures,  Modes,  and  Machinery  for  raising  Water ;  Historical  Notices  respecting 
Siphons,  Fountains,  Water  Organs,  Clepsydrae,  Pipes,  Valves,  Cocks,  etc.  In 
Five  Books,  illustrated  by  nearly  300  Engravings,  loth  edition,  with  additional 
matter.  By  Thomas  Ewbank.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  624.  1864.  21s. 

Exposition  (AN),  OF  SPIRITUALISM;  comprising  Two  Series  of 
Letters,  and  a  review  of  the  Spiritual  Magazine,  No.  20.  As  published  in 
the  Star  and  Dial.  With  Introduction,  Notes,  and  Appendix.  By  Sceptic. 
Crown  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  xiv.  and  314.  Cloth.  1862.  6s. 

Falkener, — A  DESCRIPTION  OF  SOME  IMPORTANT  THEATRES  AND  OTHER 
REMAINS  IN  CRETE.  From  a  MS.  History  of  Candia,  by  Onorio  Belli,  in  1586. 
Being  a  Supplement  to  the  "  Museum  of  Classical  Antiquities."  Illustrations 
and  nine  Plates.  By  Edward  Falkener.'  Pp.  33,  royal  8vo.  cloth.  1854. 
5s.  &d. 

Farm  (How  TO  Graf  A)  AttD  WHSRE  TO  FIND  ONE.  Showing  that 
Homesteads  may  be  had  .by  those  desirous  of  'securing  them,  with  the  Public 
Law  on  the  subject  of  Free  Home^,  and  ^suggesfrions  from  Practical  Farmers, 
t«jgether  with  numerous  successful  experiences  ol\>thers,  who,  though  beginning 
with  little  or  nothing,  have  become  the  owne^k  o^mple  farms.  By  the  Author 
of  "  Ten  Acres  Enough."  Second  editio^,  pt.  8vo.  pp.  345.  *  Cloth.  6s. 

* 


32      >  Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co. 

Faulkner.  —  A    DICTIONARY    OF    COMMERCIAL    TERMS,   WITH    THEIR 
SYNOXYMES  IN"  VARIOUS  LANGUAGES.     By  Alexander  Faulkner,  Assistant  Com- 
Customs, Salt  and  Opium.     Author  of  the  '•  Orientalist's  Gramir^- 


missioner  of  Customs,  Salt  and  Opi 

tical  Vade-Mecum,"  etc.  12mo.,'pp.  iii.  and  158,  and  vii.  Half-bound.  1866.  4s. 

Fay,  —  GREAT  OUTLINE  OF  GEOGRAPHY  >  FOR  HIGH  SCHOOLS  ANP 
FAMILIES.  By  Theodore  S.  Fay.  With  an  At}as  of  8  plates  in  folio.  12mo., 
pp.  viii.  and  238.  Boards.  1867.  16*. 

Felton,  —  SELECTIONS  FROM  MODERN  GREEK  WRITERS,  in  Prose  Mid 
Poetry.  With  Notes./  By  Dr.  C.  C.  Felton.  8ro.  cloth,  pp.  xv.  and  216. 
1857.  6s. 

Felton.  —  GREECE,  ANCIENT  AND  MODERN.  Lectures-  delivered  before 
the  Lowell  Institute.  By  C.  C.  Felton,  LL.D.,  late  President  of  Harvar/l  Fnivcr- 
sity.  Two  vols.,  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  vi.  511,  and  iv.  549.rc1867.  28s. 

Fenerbach,  —  THE  ESSENCE  OF  CHRISTIANITY.  By  Ludwig  Feuerbach. 
Translated  from  the  Second  German  Edition,  by  Marian  Evans,  translator  of 
Strauss's  "Life  of  Jesus."  Large  post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xx.  and  340.'  1864. 
10s.  6d. 

Fichte.  —  THE  CHARACTERISTICS  OF  THE  PRESENT  AGE.    <By  Johann 

Gottlieb  Fichte.     Translated  from  the  Germak  by  William  Smith.     Post  8vo. 

cloth,  pp.  xi.  and  271.     1847.     6s. 

"  We  accept  these  lectures  as  a  true  and  most  admirable  delineation  of  the  present  age  ; 
and  on  this  ground  alone  we  should  bestow  on  them  our  hi  .rtiest  recommend.-Wion  ;  but  it  is 
because  they  teach  us  how  we  may  rise  above  the  age,  that  we  bes'ow  on  them  our  most 
emphatic  praise. 

"  He  makes  us  think,  and  perhaps  more  sublimely  than  we  have  ever  formerly  thought,  but 
it  is  only  in  order  that  we  may  the  more  nobly  act. 

"As  a  majestic  and  most  stirring  utterance  from  the  lips  of  the  greatest  German  prophet, 
we  trust  that  the  book  will  find  a  response  in  many  an  English  soul,  and  potently  help  to  re- 
generate English  society."  —  The  Critic. 

Fichte.  —  THE  VOCATION  OF  A  SCHOLAR.     By  Johann  Gottlieb  Fichte. 

Translated  from  the  German  by  William  Smith.       Post  8vo.  cloth.      Pp.  78, 

sewed,     1817.     2s. 

'"The  Vocation  of  a  Scholar  ....  is  distinguished  by  the  same  high  moral  tone,  and 
manly,  vigorous  expression  '  which  characterise  all  Fichte's  works  in  th«  German,  and  is 
nothing  lost  in  Mr.  Smith's  clear,  unembarrassed,  and  thoroughly  Eng  ish  translation."  — 
Douglas  JerrohTs  Newspaper. 

"  We  are  glad  to  see  this  excellent  translation  of  one  of  the  best  of  Fichte's  works  presented 
to  the  public  in  a  very  neat  form  ....  \o  class  needs  and  earnest  and  sincere  spirit  more 
than  the  literary  class  ;  and  therefore  the  '  Vocation  of  the  Scholar,'  the  '  Guide  of  the  Human 
Race,'  written  in  Fichte's  most  earnest,  most  commanding  temper,  will  be  welcomed  in  its 
English  dress  by  public  wi'iters,  and  be  beneficial  to  the  cause  ol  truth.  —  Economist. 

Fichte.  —  THE  VOCATION  OF  MAN.  By  Johann  Gottlieb  Fichte. 
Translated  from  the  German  by  William  Smith.  Post  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  xii. 
and  198.  1848.  4s. 

"  In  the  progress  of  my  present  work,  I  have  taken  a  deeper  glance  into  religion  than  ever 
I  did  before.  In  me  the  emotions  of  ti,e  heart  proceed  only  from  perfect  intellectual  clear- 
ness ;  it  cannot  be  but  the  clearness  I  have  now  attained  011  this  subject  shall  also  take 
possession  of  ray  hwrt.a—Fiichte?f-Corresooifieaee, 

"  '  The  Vocation  ot  Man  '  is,  as  Fichte  truly  says,  intelligible  to  all  readers  who  are  really 
able  to  understand  a  book  at  all  ;  and  as  the  history  of  the  mind  it-  its  various  phases  of  doubt, 
knowledge,  and  faith,  it  is  of  interest  to  all.  £  bo&k  of  £his  statrp  is  sure  to  teauh  you  much 
because  it  excites  thought.  If  it  rouses  you  to  combat  his  conclusions,  it  has  done  a  good 
work  ;  for  in  that  very  effort  y~m  are  stirred  to  a  consideration  of  points  which  have  hitherto 
escaped  your  indolent  acquiescence.—  Foreirin.  Quarterly. 

"  This  is  Fichte's  most  popular  W,;--k,  ana'  is  every  way  remarkable."  —  Atlas. 

"  It  appears  to  us  the  boldest  and  most  emphatic  attempt  that  has  yet  been  made  t'<,  ex- 
plain to  man  his  restless  and  u^jou^uerable  desire  tootvin  the  True  and  tho  Eternal."  — 
Sentinel. 


Publications  of  Triibner  fy  Co.  33 

e,  —ON  THE  NATURE  OF  THE  SCHOLAR,  AND  ITS  MANIFESTATIONS. 
By  Johana  Gottlieb  Fichte.     Translated  from  the  German  by  William  Smith. 
*,  Second  Edition,     (/loth.     Post  8vo.     Pp.  vy.  and  131.     1848.     3s. 

"  With  great  satisfaction  we  welcome,this  first  English  translation  of  an  author  who  occupies 
the  most  exalted  position  as  a  profound  and  original  thinker  ;  as  an  irresistible  orator  in  the 
.cause  of  what  he  believed  t  >  be  tl*  truth  ;  as  a  thoroughly  honest  and  heroin  man  .  **  .  The 
appearance  of  any  of  his  w*rks  m  our  language  is,  we  believe,  a  perfect  novelty  ....  These 
orations  itre  admirably  atted  for  their  purpose  ;  so  grand  is  the  position  taken  by  the  lecturer, 
and  so  irresistible  their  eloquence." — Examiner. 

f  This  work  must  inevitably  arrest  the  attention  of  the  'scientific  physician,  by  the  grand 
spirituality  of  its  doctrines,  and  the  pure  morality  it  teaches,^.  .  Shall  we  b«  presumptuous 
if  we  recommend  these  views'lo  our  professional  brethren?  oi-jif  we  say  to  the  eulUuteued, 
the  thoughtful,  the  serious.  This— if  you"brttrue  scholars— is  your  Vocation  ?  We  know  not 
a  higher  morality  tlfcn  *his,  -fc  more  noble  principles  than  these:  they  are  full  of  truth." — 
liritish  and  Foreign  JJylico-Chirurgical  Review. 

'  > 

»      , 

Fiabie. — MEMOIR    o^»   JOHANN    GOTTLIEB'  FICHTE.        By   William 
,     Smith.     Second  Edition.     Post  8  vo.*»  Cloth.     Pp.168.     1848.  »  4s. 

"...*..  A  Life  of  Fichte,  full  of  nobleness  and  jiistructfen,  of  grand  purpose,  tender 
feeling-sand  brave  effort  !  .  .  .  the  ccfapilation  of  which  is  executed  with  great  judgment 
and  fidelity." — Prospective  Jt&aeij. 

"We  state  Fiohte's  chji'acter  as  it  is  known  and  admitted  by  men  of  all  parties  among 
the  Germans,  when  we  say  that  so  robust  an  intellect,  a  soul  so  cilru,  so  lofty,  so  "massive, 
and  immovefihle,  has  not  mingled  Ai  philosophical  discussion  since  the  time  of  Luther  .... 
Fichte's  opinious  may  be  true  or  f.Ase  ;  but  his  character  as  a  thinker  can  be  slightly  valued 
only  by  such  as  know  it  ill ;  an<f  as  a  man,  approved  by  action  and  suffering,  in  his  life  and 
in  his  death,  he  ranks  with  a  class  of  men  who  were  common  only  in  better  ages  than  ours." 
— State  of  German  Literature,  by  Thomas  Carlyle. 

Ficllte. — THE  WAY  TOWARDS  A  BLESSED  LIFE  ;  OR,  'THE  DOCTRINE 
OF  KELIGION.  By  Johann  Gottlieb  Fichte.  Translated  by  William  Smith. 
Post  8vo.  Cloth.  Pp.  viii.  and  221.  1849.  5s. 

Ficllte. — THE  POPULAR  WORKS  OF  JOHANN  GOTTLIEB  FICHTE. 
Translated  from  the  German,  with  a  Memoir  of  the  Author,  hy  William  Smith. 
2  vols.  Post  8vo.  Cloth.  Pp.  554,  and  pp.  viii.  and  529.  1859.  20s. 

* 

Fichte,— THE  SCIENCE  OF  KNOWLEDGE.  By  J.  G.  Fichte.  Trans- 
lated from  the  German  by  A.  E.  Krceger.  Crown  8vo.,  pp.  378.  Cloth. 
1868.  8s. 

Filippo  Malincontri ;  OR,  STUDENT  LIFE  IN  VENETIA.  An  Autobio- 
graphy. Edited  by  Girolamo  Volpe.  Translated  from  the  unpublished  Italian 
MS.  by  C.  B.  Cayley,  B.A.  Two  vols.,  post  8vo.  Pp.  xx.  and  646.  1861.  18s 

Fitzgerald. — THE  BOSTON  MACHINIST.  Being  a  Complete  School 
for  the  Apprentice  as  well  as  ^the  Advanced  Machinist,  showing  how  to  make 
and  use  every  tool  in  every  branch  of  the  business,  with  a  Treatise  on  Screw 
and  Gear  Cutting.  By  Walter  Fitzgerald,  Inventor  and  Mechanical  Engineer. 
12mo.  cloth,  pp.  80.  1866.  2s.  6d. 

Fletcher, — ANALYSIS  OF  BENTHAM'S  "THEORY  OF  LEGISLATION.  By 
G.  W.  H.  Fletcher,  »LL.B.,  of  the  Civil  Service  Commission.  12mo.  cloth, 
pp.  ix.  lAid  86.  1864?  2s.  Gf.  ^ 

>         « 

Fox. — THE  SERVICE  IN  COMMEMORATION  qj  WILLIAM  JOHNSON  Fox, 

late  M.P.  for  Oldham,  and  Minister  at  South  "Place,  Finsbury.  At  Finsbury 
Cliapel,  on  Sunday  Morniiip-,  June  12,  18<K>  Sty  M.  D.  Con  way.  Post  8vo., 
sewed,  pp.  23.  1864.  Qd.  '  ,  * 

b  », 


-  ' 


34  Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co. 

Fox. — MEMORIAL  EDITION  OF  COLLECTED  WORKS,  by  W.  J.  Fox : — 

Vol.  I.  Lectures,  Lessons,  etc.,  prior  to  1824.     8vo.  cloth,  np.  390.     1865.     5s. 
Vol.  2.  Christ  and  Christianity.     fvo.  cloth,  pp.  3-55.     186?j.     5*. 
Vol.  3.  Miscellaneous  Lectures  and  Sermons,    and  Twenty  Sermons   on  Prin- 
ciples of  Morality  Inculcated  in  Holy  Scripture.     8vo.  cloth,  pp.  350.    1865. 

Vol.  4.  Anti-Corn  Law  Speeches  and  occasional  S^eecKbs.     8vo.  cloth,  pp.  378. 

1866.     5s. 
Vol.  5.  Letters  on  the  Con*  Laws.     By  a  XorwicL  "Weaver  Boy,  and  Extracts 

from  Letters  by  Publyjola.     8vo.  cloth,  pp.  325.     1866.     5s. 
Vol.    6.  Miscellaneous  Assays,   Political,   Literary,   Critical,   and   Biographical. 

From  the  Retrospective  Review,    Westminste;    Review,  Monthly   Repository, 

Morning  Chronicle,  etc.     8vo.  cloth,  pp.  424.     186/.     5s.  (<-  , 

Vol.  7.  Reports  of  Lectures  at  South   Place   Chapel,    Fiiisbury.      8vo.  ^cloth, 

pp.312.     1865.     5s.          ,  - 

Vol.  8.  Reports  of  Lectures  at  South  P]ace  Chapel,  Finsbury.     8/0.  cloth,  pp. 

321.    1865:     5s. 
Vol.  9.  Reports  of  Lectures  at  South  Place  Chapel,  Finsbury,  supplementary  to 

the  Course  on  the  Religious  Ideas.     8vo.  cloth,  pp.  323.     1867.     5s. 
Vol.  10.  Reports  of  Lectures  at  South  Place  Chapel,"  F'nsbury,  supplementary 

to  the  Course  on  the  Religious  Ideas,  and  Miscellaneous  Lectures.  8vo.  cloth, 

pp.  314.     1867.     os.  J 

Vol.  11.  Reports  of  Miscellaneous  Lectures  at  bbuth  Place  Chapel,  Finsbury. 

8vo.  cloth,  pp.  vi.  and  322.     1868.     5s. 

Vol.  12.  Reports  of  Miscellaneous  Lectures  at  South  Place  Chapel,  Finsbury. 
8vo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  358.     1868.    5s.'  f 

Foxton, — THE  PRIESTHOOD  AND  THE  PEOPLE.  'By  Frederick  J. 
Foxton,  A.B.,  Author  of  "Popular  Christianity,"  etc.  8yo.,  pp.  58,  sewed. 
1862.  1*.  Qd. 

FoxtoiL — POPULAR  CHRISTIANITY;  ITS  TRANSITION  STATE,  AND 
PROBABLE  DEVELOPMENT.  By  Frederick  J.  Foxton,  A.B.,  formerly  of  Pem- 
broke College,  Oxford,  and  Perpetual  Curate  of  Stoke  Prior  and  Docklow, 
Herefordshire.  Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  ix.  and  226.  1849.  5s. 

Francis, — LOWELL  HYDRAULIC  EXPERIMENTS.  Being  a  selection 
from  experiments  on  Hydraulic  Motors,  on  the  Flow  of  Water  over  Weirs,  in 
Open  Canals  of  Uniform  Rectangular  Section  and  through  Submerged  Orifices 
and  Diverging  Tubes,  made  at  Lowell,  Massachusetts.  By  James  B.  Francis, 
Civil  Engineei",  Member  of  the  American  Society  of  Civil  Engineers  and  Archi- 
tects, Fellow  of  the  American  Academy  of  Arts  and  Sciences,  Member  of  the 
American  Philosophical  Society,  etc.  Second  Edition.  Revised  and  enlarged. 
With  many  new  experiments  and  additional  illustrations.  4to.,  pp.  250,  23 
plates.  Cloth.  1868.  £3  3s. 

Franklin,  —  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN.  By  James 
Parton.  With  Steel  Portraits.  Two  vols.  8vo.,  pp.  1,336.  1864.  21s. 

Free  Press  (Publications  of  the)  : 

REASONS   FOR  DEMANDING  INVESTIGATIONS  INTO  THE  CHARGES  AGAINST  LORD 

PALMERSTON.     8vo.,  pp.  19.     1340.     Is. 
THE  CRISIS — FRANCE  IN  FACE  OF  THE  FOUR  POWERS.     With  Supplement,  by 

David  Urquhart.     Svo.,  pp.  58.     1840.,    Is. 

THE  SULPHUR  MONOPOLY.     By  Davia  Urquhait.     8vo.v  pp.  8.     184*0.     3d. 
THE   EDINBURGH  REVIEW  A:TD  THE  AFFGHAN  WAR.       By   David   Urquhart. 

8vo.,  pp.  61.     1843.     6«L 
A  FRAGMENT  OF  THE  HISTORY  OF  SERVIA,  1843.     By  David  Urquhart.     §vo., 

pp.  96.     6d.  .1     u<  v 

AN  APPEAL  AGAINST  FACTION.     By  T)avid  Urqnhart.     8vo.,  pp.  56.     1843.    Is. 


Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co.  )  35 

(  / 

FREE  PRESS  (Publications  of  the) — continued. 

CANADA   UNDER  "^SUCCESSIVE  ADMINISTRATIONS.      By  David  Urquhart.      8vo., 

pp.  100.     IF/44,     l.s. 
THE    CHANNEL  ISLANDS — NORMAN  I^vVs  AND  MODERN  PRACTICE.      8vo.,  pp. 

32.     1844.     6d.  , 

PUBLIC   OPINION  AND   irs   ORGANS.      By   David  Urquhart.       8vo.,   pp.    94. 

1855.     6d.        ,  o 

THE  SERF  AND  THE  COSSACK.     By  Francis  Marx.     8vo.,  pp.  60.     1855.     Qd. 
TUCKER'S  POLITICAL  FLY  SHEETS.  8vo.  1855.  3,s.  Containing: — Palraerston  and 

Poland ;  Palmerston,  what  has  he  done  ?  ^England's  Part  in  Turkey's  Fall ; 

War/br  Russia— ;pot  against  Russia ;  Louis  Napoleon,  Russia,  Circassia  ;  the 

Invasion  of  the  Crimea ;  ths^yords  of  Palinersfton  ;  the  Spider  and  the  Fly  ; 

the  Honfe  I^ace  3f  the*Four  Points. 

'    THE  FREE  1-^iESS  SERIALS.     8vo.     1855-56.   Containing: — The  Nation  Cheated 
»     ,out  of  its    Food ;    Visit    of  DaVid   Urquhart  to  the   Hungarian   Exiles  at 

Kujayah ;  Contradictions   of  Lord   Clarendon    in  reference  tp   Corn ;   The 

Story  of  the»Life   of  Lord  .Yalmerston ;    the   AffghaD,  "War ;  the  "Will  of 
•    Peter  the  Great. 
^-PARLIAMENTARY  USURPATIONS  in  reference  to  Money  Cognizance  and  Suppression 

of  Treason  by  leading  Statesmen  and  Diplomatists ;  Betrayal  of  Denmark  to 

Russia ;  the  Chartist  Correspondence ;  Selections  from   the  Blue  Books  as 

Materials  for  Study,  by  Gustavus ;  the  Danger  of  the  Political  Balance  of 

Enrope ;  Crimes  of  L'-)uis  Philip  ;  Report  of  the  Newcastle  Committee  on  the 

Union  of  the  Princrjalities. 
REPORTS   OF   COMMITTEES   OF  THE  BIRMINGHAM  CONFERENCE,  ON  THE  RIGHT 

OF  SEARCH  AND  NEWSPAPER  FOLIO.     6d. 
THE     PROPOSED     BASIS    OF    PACIFICATION    KNOWN    AS    THE    FOUR    POINTS. 

1855.  1*.' 

NEWCASTLE  COMMITTEE  REPORTS,   ON   THE   LIMITATION   OF   THE   SUPPLY   OP 

GRAIN,  AND  CONSTITUTIONAL  REMARKS.     8vo.,  pp.  48.     1855.     6d. 
FAMILIAR  WORDS  AS  AFFECTING  ENGLAND  AND  THE  ENGLISH.     8vo.,  pp.  350. 

1856.  2s. 

THE    TURKISH  BATH,  WITH  A  VIEW  TO  ITS  INTRODUCTION  INTO  THE  BRITISH 

DOMINIONS.     8vo.,  pp.  68.     1856.     Is. 
THE  QUEEN  AND  THE  PREMIER.     8vo.,  pp.  32.     1857.     6d. 
THE  REBELLION  OF  INDIA.     By  David  Urqxihart.     8vo.,  pp.  46.     Is. 
THE   HOSTILITIES  AT   CANTON.      By  Augustus  G.  Stapleton.      8vo.,  pp.  16. 

1857.  6d. 

THE  IMMEDIATE  CAUSE  OF  THE  INDIAN  MUTINY.      By   G.   Crawshay.      8vo., 

pp.  28.     1857.     6d. 
THE  REPORT  OF  THE  EAST  INDIAN  COMMITTEE  OF  THE  COLONIAL  SOCIETY  ON 

THE  MILITARY  OPERATIONS  IN  CHINA.     8vo.,  pp.  67.     1857.     Qd. 
THE  REPORT  OF  THE  BRADFORD  COMMITTEE  WHAT  CONSTITUTES  LAWFUL  WAR. 

8vo.,  pp.  24.     1857. 
THE  SRADDHA,  THE  KEYSTONE  OF  THE  BRAHMINICAL,  BUDDHISTIC,  AND  ARIAN 

RELIGIONS.     By  David, Urquhart.     8vo  ,  pp.  43.     1858.     Is. 
THE  GROWTH  OF  RUSSIAN  POWER,  CONTINGENT  ON  THE  DECAY  OF  THE  BRITISH 

CONSTITUTION.     8vo.,  pp.  18.     1858.     6d. 
PROSELYTISM  DESTRUCTIVE  OF  CHRISTIANITY,     8vo.,  pp.  44.    By  G.  Crawshay. 

1858.  Is. 

CATASTROPHE  OF  THE  EAST  INDIA  COMPANY.      By  G.  Crawshay.      8vo.,  pp.  24. 

1858.  6d. 

"Koslura    AND  ^QUHAIJT.      EstiXth    di   una   Corrispondenza.     8vb.,   pp.    40. 

1859.  Is.  ,         , 

HOW    RUSSIA    TRIES    TO    GET    INTO    HF^l  HANDS    THE    SUPPLY    OF     CoRN    OF    THE 

WHOLE  OF  EUROPE.     8vo.,  pp.  24.     185k     6d. 

THE  EUROPEAN  COMPLICATION  EXPLAII^ED  >    By  G.  Crawshay.     8vo.,  pp.  10. 
1859.     Qd.  ,  * 


36  Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co. 

FREE  PRESS  (Publications  of  the)  —  continued. 

DAVID  URCIUHART  ON  THE  ITALIAN  WAR.  To  which  isUdded  a  Memoir  of 
Europe,  drawn  up  for  the  Instruction  of  the  present  Empertr  of  Russia.  8vo., 
pp.  40.  1859.  Is. 

THE  Russo-DuTCH  Q,TW:STION.     Obligations  of  England  to  Russia  contracted  to 

ensvw  the  maintenance  of  the  Kingdom  of  Poland,  and  paid  for  its  Suppres- 

sion.    4to.,  pp.  15.     6d.  »  j, 

A  LETTER  ox  THE  DANGER  TO  ENGLAND  OF  AUSTRIA'S  SUBJUGATION.     8vo. 

pp.  8.     1859.     6d. 
THE  AFFGHAN  PAPERS.      Ejjport  and  Petition  of  the  Newcastle  Forel-gn  Affairs* 

Association.     8vo.,  pp.  &2.     1860.     6d.  ,. 

THE  INVASION  OF  ENGLAND.     By  David  Urquhart.  8vo.,  pp.  1  J..   3d. 
THE  DUKE  OF  COBURG'S  PAMPHLET.     THB  DESPOTS  AS  REVOLUTIONISTS.     8vo. 

pp.  31.     1*. 
PALMERSTON  UNM  \SKED.     Answer  to  Isma^'s  Reply  to  thp  Duke  of  'Coburg's 

Pamphlet.     By  Edward  Fischel.     8vo.,  pp.  51.     Is. 
SUCCESSION  TO  THE  CROWN  OF  DENMARK.     Speech  of  Lord  R.  Montague.  8^v. 

pp.  24.     1861.     Is.  , 

THE  PACIFIC  AND  THE  AMAAR.     By  Francis  Mark.     8vo.,  py.  28.     1*. 
THE  DEFENCE  OF  ENGLAND.     Nine  Letters  by  a  Journeyman  Shoemaker.  8vo., 

pp.  34.     1862.     6d. 

CIRCASSIA.     Speech  of  S.  E.  Rolland  at  Preston.     8vo.,  dp.  34.     1862.     Is. 
THE  RIGHT  OF  SEARCH.     Two  Speeches,  by  David  Uriuhart.     January  20  and 

27.     8vo.,  pp.  103.     1862.     1*. 
THE    CIRCASSIAN   WAR   AND   POLISH  INSURRECTION.       SECRET  'OF  RUSSIA  IN 

THE  CASPIANA  EUXINE.     8vo.,  pp.  102.     1863.     Is. 

THE  EXPEDITION  OF  THE  CHESEPEAKE  TO  CIRCASSIA.     8vo.,  pp.  18  1864.    6d. 
THE    NEW   HERESY  —  PROSELYTISM    SUBSTITUTED    FOR    RIGHTEOUSNESS.        By 

David  TJrquhart.     4to.,  pp.  19.     1862.     6d. 
THE  REASON  FOR  ABROGATING  THE  TREATY  OF  LONDON  OF  MAY  STH,  1852. 

Presented  by  a  Deputation  from  the  Lancashire  Foreign  Affairs  Committee. 

4to.,  pp.  15.     6d. 
THE  STORY   OF    THE  CRIMEA';*  WAR.      From   the    Times   and   Herald-  Corre- 

spondents, and  the  evidence  before  the  Sebastopol  Committee.  4to.,  pp.  24.  3d. 
DEBATES  ON  THE  MOTION  FOR  PAPERS,  WITH  A  VIEW  TO  THE  IMPEACHMENT  OF 

VISCOUNT  PALMERSTON.     4to.,  pp.  59.     Is.  Gd. 

Friedricll.  —  PROGRESSIVE  GERMAN  READER,  with  Copious  Notes 
to  the  First  Part.  By  P.  Friedrich.  Crown  8vo.,  pp.  166.  Cloth.  1868. 
4*.  6d. 

Froembling,  —  GRADUATED  GERMAN  READER,  consisting  of  a  selec- 
tion from  the  most  popular  writers,  arranged  progressively  ;  with  a  complete 
Vocabulary  for  the  first  part.  By  Friedrich  Otto  Froembling.  12mo.,  pp.  viii. 
and  256.  Cloth.  1867.  3s.  6d. 


,  —  GRADUATED  EXERCISES  FOE,  TRANSLATION  INTO  GERMAN*. 

Consisting  of  Extracts  from  the  best  English  Authors,  arranged  progressively  ; 
with  an  Appendix,  containing  Idiomatic  Notes.  By  Friedrich  Otto  Froembling, 
Ph.D.,  Principal  German  Mastet  at  the  City  of  London  School.  Crown  8vo., 
cloth,  pp  xiv.  and  322.  With  Notes,  pp.  66.  1867.  4s.  6d.  Without  Exer- 
cises, is. 


Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co.  '*  37 

Fronde, — THE  BOOK  OF  JOB.     By  J.  A.  Froude,  M.A,,  late  Fellow 

of  Exeter  College,   Oxford.     Reprinted   from   the    Westminster  Review.     New 
,        Series,  No.  7.    "fevo.,  sewed,  pp.  38.     18^3.     8d. 

Fruston,— ECHO  FRAN^AIS.  A  Practical  Gifide  to  French  Con- 
versation. By  F.  de  la  Fruston.  With  a  Vocabulary.  12mo.,  pp.  \«  and  192. 
Cleth.  3s. 

'Fulton. — THE  FACTS'  AND  FALLACIES  OF  THE  SABBATH  QUESTION 
CONSIDEAED  SCRIPTURALLY.  By  Henry  Fulton,  *?  12mo.,  limp  cloth,  pp.  108. 
1858.  Is.  6d.  *'  •» 

I  >        ' 

Furnivall, — EDUCATION  IN  EARLY  ENGLAND.  Some  Notes  used  as 
forewords  to  a  Col^tion  of  Treatises  on  "Manners  and  Meals  in  Olden  Times," 
'for  the'  Early  English  Text  So/jety.  By  Frederick  J.  Furnivall,  M.A.  Svo., 
sewed,  pp.  4  and  Ixxiv.  1867.  1*. 


Furnivall, — A  ,C<}N>SISE  MIDDLE-ENGLISH  DICTIONARY  FOB  THE 
PERIOD,  1250 — Iw26,  THE  BEGINNING  OF  EARLY  ENGLISH  TO  TUB  DATE  OF  THE 
FIRST  ENGLISH  NEW  TESTAMENT.  Edited  by  F.  J.  Furnivall,  Esq.,  M.A.  Svo. 

Galitzin, — EMANCIPATION-FANTASIA.  Dedicated  to  the  Eussian 
people.  By  Prince  Geryge  Galitzin.  Partition  to  Orchestra  and  Piano  Duet. 
Fol.  pp.  38,  sewed.  1861.  5s. 

Galitzin, — THE  HERZEN  VALSE,  for  two  performers  on  the  piano- 
forte. Composed  by  Prince  George  Galitzin.  Folio,  pp.  20,  sewed.  5s. 

Gavazzi, — LECTURE.  By  Signer  Gavazzi,  on  "  Garibaldi,"  delivered 
at  the  Liverpool  Institute,  October  3rd,  1864.  12mo.,  sewed,  pp.  20.  1864.  2d. 

Geiger.  -  JUDAISM  AND  ITS  HISTORY.      By    Dr.    Abraham    Geiger, 

Rabbi  of  the  Israelitish  Congregation  at  Frankfort.  Translated  by  M.  Mayer. 
Vol.  I.  Closing  with  the  Destruction  of  the  Second  Temple.  To  which  is 
added  an  Appendix.  "Strauss  and  Renan."  Svo.,  half-bound,  pp. x.  and  344. 
1866.  10s.  (id. 

Geological  Magazine  (The)  ;  OR  MONTHLY  JOURNAL  OF  GEOLOGY,  with 
which  is  incorporated  "The  Geologist."  Edited  by  Henry  Woodward,  F.G. S., 
F.Z.S.,  Honorary  Member  of  the  Geological  Societies  of  Glasgow  and  Norwich  ; 
Corresponding  Member  of  tbe  Natiiral  History  Society  of  Montreal.  Assisted 
by  Professor  John  Morris,  F.G.S.,  etc.,  etc.,  and  Robert  Etheridge,  F.R. S.E., 
F.G.S.  Volume  III.  8vo.  pp.  592,  cloth.  January  to  December,  1866.  20s. 
Volume  IV.  Svo.  pp.  iv.  and  584,  cloth.  January  to  December,  1867.  20s 
Continued  monthly.  •  • 

Germ?Jiy  and  Italy. — ANSWER  TO  MAZZINI'S  "ITALY  AND  GER- 
MANY." By  Rocitoertus,  D*e  Berg,  and  L.  Bucher.  Svo.,  pp.  20,  sewed.  1861.  Is. 

firervinus. — THE  MISSION  OF'  THE  GERJIAN  CATHOLICS.  By  G.  G. 
Gervinus,  Professor  of  History  in  the  Uni\ters>ty  of  Heidelberg.  Translated  from 
the  German.  Post  Svo.,  sewed,  pp.  iv.  and  66.  1846.  fs. 


38  Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co. 

GesenillS,  —  HEBREW  GRAMMAR.  Translated  from  the  17th  edition 
by  Dr.  T.  J.  Conant,  including  the  corrections  and  addition^  of  Dr.  E.  Rodiger, 
with  Grammatical  Exercises  and  Chrr-stomathy,  by  the  Translator.  8vo.  cloth. 
pp.  xv.  and  297.  Exercises,  pp.  20.  Ohrestomathy,  pp.  64.  1864.  10*.  Qd. 


AND  ENGLISH  LEXICON  OF  THE  OLD  TESTA- 
MENT, including  the  Biblical  Chaldee.  Translated  by  Edward  Eobinson,  with 
corrections  and  additions  by  the  Author.  14th  Edition.  Royal  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  ix. 
and  1160.  1855.  25s. 

Gessner.  —  LE  DROIT  DES  -&EUTRES  SUR  MSR.  Par  L.  Gressner.  8vo. 
Paper  covers,  pp.  437.  1865.  7s.  j 

Ghose,  —  THE  OPEN  COMPETITION  FOR  THE  CIVIL  SERVICE  OF  INDIA. 
By  Manomohan  Ghose,  of  the  .Calcutta  University  and  jJncolns'  Inn.  8vc., 
sewed,  pp.  68.  18o6.  Is.  6d. 

Giles,  —  HEBREW  RECORDS.  Anl'Historical  inquiry  concerning  t?ie 
Age,  Authorship,  and  Authenticity  of  the  Old  Testanien*.  By  Rev.  Dr.  Giles, 
late  Fellow  of  Corpus  Christ!  College,  Oxford.  Second  Edition.  8vo.  pp.  356, 
cloth.  1853.  10s.  6d.  ." 

Gillespie,  —  A  TREATISE  ON  LAND-SURVEYING  ;  comprising  the 
Theory  developed  from  Five  Elementary  Principles  ;  and  the  Practice  with  the 
Chain  alone,  the  Compass,  the  Transit,  the  Theodolite,  the  Plain  Table,  etc. 
Illustrated  by  400  Engravings  and  a  Magnetic  Chart.  By  "W.  M.  GILLESPIE, 
EL.D.,  C.E.  8vo.,  cloth,  pp.  424  and  84.  8th  Edition.  1867.  16s. 

Gillespie,  —  A  MANUAL  OF  THE  PRINCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE  OF  ROAD 
MAKING  ;  comprising  the  Location,  Construction,  and  Improvement  of  Roads 
(common,  Macadam,  paved,  planked,  etc.)  and  Railroads.  By  "W.  M.  Gillespie, 
LL.D.,  C.E.  Ninth  Edition,  with  Additions.  Post  8vo.,  cloth,  pp.  372. 
1867.  9s. 

Gillmore.  —  ENGINEER  AND  ARTILLERY  OPERATIONS  against  the 
Defences  of  Charleston  Harbour  in  1863,  comprising  the  Descent  upon  Morris 
Island,  the  Demolition  of  Fort  Sumter,  the  Reduction  of  Forts  Wagner  and 
Gregg,  with  Observations  on  Heavy  Ordnance,  Fortifications,  etc.  By  G.  A. 
Gillmore.  Illustrated  by  76  Plates  and  Engraved  Views.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  vi.  and 
354.  1865.  45s. 

Glemiie.  —  KING  ARTHUR  ;  or,  the  Drama  of  the  Revolution.  By 
John  S.  Stuart  Glennie,  M.A.,  F.S.A.,  F.R.A.S.,  etc.  Volume  I.,  Prologue  and 
Overture.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  vi.  and  '/79.  1867.  'ts.  6d. 

Gliddon,  —  ANCIENT  EGYPT.  Her  monuments,  hieroglyphics,  history, 
and  archaeology,  and  other  subjects  connected  with  hieroglyphical  literature. 
By  George  R.  Gliddon,  late  United  States  Consul  at  Cairo.  Fifteenth  edition. 
Revised  and  coft-ected,  with  an  Appendix.  4to,i  pp.  68,  sewed.  2s.  6d. 

God's  COMMANDMENTS,  according  to  Moses,  according  to  Christ, 
and  according  to  our  present  ,  knowledge.  ,A  Sketch  suggestive  of  a  New 
Westminster  Confession  of  faith.  For  the  Laity  of  the  19  A  Century. 
Addressed  to  all  who  deem  it  thoir  'iighest  duty,  as  .veil  as  right,  to  think  for 
themselves.  8vo.,  sewed,  pp.  24.  1867.  Qd. 


Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co.  39 

.—  FEMALE    CIIARACTEES    OF     (JTOETHE.     From   the   original 

Drawings  of  Williar)  Kaulbach.     With    explanatory  text,  by  George  Henry 
Lewes.     Folio,  21/ull  page  steel  engravings.     Cloth,  gilt.     1868.     £7  7*. 

Goethe's  CORRESPONDENCE  WJTH  A  CHILD.     8vo.,  pp.  viii.  and   498. 
i860.    7s.  &d. 

Golden,,  A,  B.  C,  —  DesJgneil  by  Grustav  Kb'nig     Engraved   by   Julius 
Thater.     Oblong,  cloth.     5s. 


j—  A  COMPENDIOUS    SANSKRIT-ENGLISH  DICTIONARY,  for 

the  Use  of  those  who  fntend  to  ^road  the  Easier  ^orks  of  Classical  Sanskrit 
Literature.  By  Theodore  Golistiickei'!  Small  4to.,pp.  900,  cloth.  [In  preparation. 

Goldstiicker,  —  A'  COMPENDIOUS  GaAMMAR    OF  THE   SANSKRIT  LAN- 
GUAGE'  FOR  BEGINNE^.     By  Theodore  Goldstu/sker.     8vo.          |  In  preparation. 
•  •  t  t/ 

Goldsiiioker,  —  'A  ]*)ICTIONARY,  'SANSKRIT  AND  ENGLISH,  extended 
acd  improved  from  the  second  edition  of  £he  Dictionary  of  Professor  H.  H. 
"Wilson,  with  his  sanction  tand  concurrence;  together  with  a  Supplement,  Gram- 
matical Appendices,  Vnl  an  Index,  serving  as  a  Sanskrit-English  Vocabulary.  By 
Theodore  Goldstiick'er.  Parts  I.  to  VI.  pp.  480.  1854-1864.  Each  6,v. 
i 

Goldstiicker.  —  PANINI  :   L?is  Place   in  Sanskrit  Literature.     An  In- 

vestigation of  some  Literary  and  Chronological  Questions  which  "may  be  settled 
by  a  study  of  his  Work.  By  Theodore  Goldstiicker.  A  separate  impression  of 
the  Preface  to  the  Facsimile  of  M.S.  No.  17  in  the  Library  of  Her  Majesty's 
Home  Government  for  India,  which  contains  a  portion  of  the  Manava-Kalpa- 
Sutra,  with  the  Commentary  of  Kumarila-Swaniin.  Imperial  8vo.,  pp.  268,  cloth. 
1861.  12s. 

Goldstiicker,  —  MANAVA-KALPA-SUTRA  ;  being  a  portion  of  this 
ancient  work  on  Vaidik  Rites,  together  with  the  Commentary,  of  Kumarila- 
Swamin.  A  Facsimile  of  the  MS.  No.  17  in  the  Library  of  Her  Majesty's  Homes 
Government  for  India.  With  a  Preface  by  Theodore  Goldstiicker.  Oblong 
folio,  pp.  268,  of  letter  press,  and  121  leaves  of  facsimiles.  Cloth.'  1861.  £4.  4s. 

Goldstiicker.  —  AUCTORES  SANSCRITI.  Edited  for  the  Sanskrit  Text 
Society,  under  the  supervision  of  Theodore  Goldstiicker.  Vol.  I.,  containing  the 
Jainiiniya-Xyfiyu-Mfilii-Vistara.  Parts  I.  to  V.  pp.  400,  large  4to.,  sewed. 
1865-7.  10s.  each. 

Golovin,  —  THE  NATIONS  OF  RUSSIA  AND  TURKEY,  AND  THEIR 
Destiny.  By  Ivan  Golovin,  author  of  "The  Caucasus."  2  vols.  crown  Svo. 
pp.  xvi.  and  172;  xvi.  and  170.  Cloth.  1854.  10s. 

GoorOO  Simple.—  Strange  Surprising  Adventures  of  the  Venerable 
G.  S.  and  his  Five  Disciples,  Noodle,  Doodle,  Wiseacre,  Zany,  and  Foozle;  adorned 
•with  Fifty  Illustrations,  drawn  on  wood,  by  Alfred  Crowquill.  A  companion 
Volume  to  "  Miinchhausen"  and  "  Owlglass,"  based  upon  the  famous  Tamul  tale 
of  the  Gooroo  Paramartan,  and  exhibiting,  in  the  form  of  a  skilfully-constructed 
consecutive  narrative,  some  of  the  finest  specimens  of  Eastern  wit  and  humour. 
Elegantly  printed  ou  tintedj)apei^  in^  crown  8vo.,  richly  gilt  ornamental  cover, 
gilt  edges,  pp.  223.*  1861.  Price  10s.  Qd. 

Gould,  —  GOOD  ENGLISH,  OR  POPULAR  E^JRORS   IN    LANGUAGE.     By 

"Edward  S.  Gould,  author  of  "Abridgment  of  Alison's   Europe.     Crown  Svo 
cloth,  pp.  v.  and  228.     186?.     6s.    '  *     *  ^ 


40 


Publications  of  Trilbner  fy  Co. 


GrammatOgTapliy. — A  MANUAL  OF  KEFERENCE  to  the  Alphabet? 
of  Ancient  and  Modern  Languages.  Based  on  the,  German  Compilation 
of  F.  Ballhorn.  In  one  vol.  royal  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  80.  18^1  7s.  &d. 

The  "  Grammatography"  is  offered  to  theirabllc  as  a  compendious  introduction  to  the  reading 

of  the  most  important  Ancient  and  Modern  Languages.     Simple  in  its  design,  it  will  be  consulted 

with  advantage  by  the  Phijilogical  Student,  the  Amateur  Linguist,  the  Bookseller,  the  Corrector 

of  the  Press,  and  the  diligent  Compositor.  ., 

ALPHABETICAL  INDEX. 

German. 

Glagolitic. 

Gothic. 

Greek. 

Greek  Ligitures. 

Greek  (Archaic),—1- 

Gujerati  (or  Guzerattee) 

Hieratic. 

Hieroglyphics. 

Hebrew. 

Het.-ew  (Archaic). 

Iy.sbrew  (Rabbinical). 

Hebrew  (Judaeo-German). 

Hebrew  (current  hand). 

Hungahran.  ^ 

Tllyrian. 

Irish. 

Italian  (Old). 

Japanese. 

Javanese. 

Lettish. 

Mantshu. 

Median  Cuneiform. 

Modern  Greek  (or  Romaic). 

Mongolian. 


Afghan  (or  Pushto). 

Amharic. 

Anglo-Saxon. 

Arabic. 

Arabic  Ligatures. 

Aramaic. 

Archaic  Characters. 

Armenian. 

Assyrian  Cuneiform. 

Bengali. 

Bohemian  (Czechian). 

Biizis. 

Burmese.  '' 

Canarese  (or  Carnataca). 

Chinese. 

Coptic. 

Croato-Glagolitic. 

Cuflc. 

Cyrillic  (or  Old  Slavonic). 

Czechian  (or  Bohemian). 

Danish. 

Demotic. 

Estrangelo. 

Ethiopic. 

Etruscan. 

Georgian. 


Nnmidian. 

Old  Slavonic  (or  Cyrillic). 

Palmyrenian. 

Persian. 

Persian  Cunei.orm.  » 

Ptio3uician. 

Polish 

Pushtu  (i.  Afghan). 

Roiraic  (or  Modern  Greek). 

Russian. 

P.unes. 

Samaritan. 

Sanscrit. 

Servian. 

Slavonic  (Old). 

Snrbian  (or  Wendish).  ' 

twetiish. 

Byriue. 

Tamil. 

Telugu. 

Tibetan. 

Turkish. 

Wallachian. 

Wendish  (or  Serbian) . 

Zend. 


Grattan, — CONSIDERATIONS  ON  THE  HUMAN  MIND,  its  Present  State 
and  Future  Destination.  By  Eichard  Grattan,  Esq.,  M.D.,  ex  M.P.  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.336.  1861.  8s. 

Grattan, — THE  EIGHT  TO  THINK.  An  Address  to  the  Young  Men 
of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  By  Eichard  Grattan,  M.D.  Crown  8vo.  stiff 
covers,  pp.  134.  1865.  2*.  Qd. 

Gray. — MANUAL  OF  THE  BOTANY  OF  THE  NORTHERN  UNITED  STATES, 

including  Virginia,  Kentucky,  and  all  east  of  the  Mississippi ;  arranged  according 
to  the  Natural  System.  Third  Eevised  Edition,  with  Garden  Botany,  etc.  By 
Asa  Gray.  With  six  plates,  illustrating  the  Genera  of  Ferns,  etc.  8vo.  half- 
bound,  p'p.  xcviii.  and  606.  1862.  10s.  6d. 

Gray, — FIRST  LESSONS  IN  BOTANY  AND  VEGETABLE  PHYSIOLOGY. 
Illustrated  by  360  wood  engravings,  with  copious  Dictionary  of  Botanical 
Terms.  By  Dr.  Asa  Gray.  8vo.  half-bound,  pp.  xii.  and  236.  1866.  6*. 

Gray, — INTRODUCTION  TO  STRUCTURAL  AND  SYSTEMATIC  BOTANY,  AND 
VEGETABLE  PHYSIOLOGY.  By  Dr.  Asa  Gray.  "With  1300  woodcuts.  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.  1866.  10s.  Qd. 

Gray,  —  NATURAL  SELECTION  N'OT  INCONSISTENT  WITH  NATURAL 
THEOLOGY.  A  free  examination  of  Darwin's  treatise  on  f he  Origin  of  Species, 
and  of  its  American  reviewers.  By  Asa  Gray",  M.D.,  Fisher  Professor  of  Natural 
Philosophy  in  Harvard  University.  8vo.  pp.  56,  sewed.  186!.  Is.  Gd. 

Gray. — How  PLANTS  GROW.:  A  Simple  Introduction  to  Structura 
Botany.  By  Asa  Gray,  M.D.  Square  8vo.,  boards.  New  edition,  pp.233. 
1866.  "  6.v.  '  »  <•' 


Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co.  j     41 

. — SHAKESPEARE  AND  THE  EMBLEM  WRITERS   OF    HIS    AGE  ; 
•with  Illustrations  froua  the  original  Woodcuts   and  Engravings.     By  Henry 
Green,  M.A.    In  one  volume,  demy  8vo.,  of  about  400  pages,  and  upwards  of  100 
u  Illustrative  Woodcuts  or  Engravings.  I  [In  the  press. 

Greg. — THE   CREED  OF   CHRISTENDOM  :  •  its  Foundation  and  Super- 
i.  structure.    By  William  Ratibone  Greg.    Second  Edition.    Crown  8vo.  pv,  xx. 
and  28g.    1863.  6*.         •        t 

Greg.  — LITERARY  AND  SOCIAL  JUDGMENTS.     By  William  Rathbone 
*     G*eg.     In  One  Volume,  cr.  8vo. 

ey. —HAND-BOOK  OF  °  AFRICA?*}  AUSTRALIAN^  AND  POLYNESIAN 
PHILOLOGY,  etc.ft  as  represented  in  the  Library  of  His  Excellency  Sir  George 
Gney,  K.C.B.,  Ht3ft  Majesty's  High  Commissioner  of  the  Cape  Colony.  Classed, 
Annotated,  and  Edited  by  Sir  George  Grtiy  and  Dr.  H.  I.  Bleek. 

Vol.1.      Part  1.— South  ^ica.     8vo.  pp.  186,  sewed.     1«58.    7s.  6d. 

Voi*  I.      Part  2.— Africa  (North  of  the  Tromc  of  Capricorn,^    8vo.  pp.  70,  sewed.     1858.    2s. 
*     Vol.1.      Part3. —  Mndagascar.     8vo.  pp.  24,  sewed.     1859.     Is. 

Vol.  H.    Part  1.— Australia.     8vo.  pp.  iv.  and  44,  sewed.     185^.     Is.  6d. 
Vo!»JI.    Part  2. — Papuan   Lan«uage9  of  the  Loyalty'Islands  and  New  Hebrides,  comprising 
*        those  of  the  Islands  pf  Nengone,  Lifu,  Aneitum,  Tana,  and  others.    8vo.  pp.  12, 

sewed,  1858.   *jd.' 
Vol.  II.    Pitrt  3.  — Fiji  Ijlands  and  Rotuma  (with  Supplement  to  Part  II.,  Papuan  Languages, 

and  Part  I.,  Austral  a).    8vo.  pp.  34,  sewed.     1859.     Is. 
Vol.  II.    P*rt  4.— New  Zealand,  tte  Chatham  Islands,  and  Auckland  Islands.    SYO.  pp.  76 

sewed.     1858.    3s.  6d.- 
Vol.11.    Part  4.— (Continuation* — Polynesia  and  Borneo,    8vo.    pp.  77— 154,  sewed.    1859 

3s.  6d. 

Vol.  III.  Parti. — Manuscripts  and  Incunables.    8vo.  pp.  viii.  and  24.    1862.    2s. 
Vol.  IV.  Part  1. —England.  EaiVy  Printed  Books.    8vo.  pp.  264,  sewed.    1867.     12s. 

Grey. — MAORI  MEMENTOS  :  being  a  Series  of  Addresses,  presented 
by  the  Native  People  to  His  Excellency  Sir  George  Grey,  K.C.B.,  F.R.S.  With 
Introduction,  Remarks,  and  Explanatory  Notes.  To  which  is  added  a  small 
Collection  of  Laments,  etc.  By  Charles  Oliver  B.  Davis.  8vo.  Pp.  227. 
Aukland,  1855.  12s. 

Gross. — A  SYSTEM  OF  SURGERY,  PATHOLOGICAL,  DIAGNOSTIC,  THERA- 
PEUTIC, AND  OPERATIVE.  By  Samuel  D.  Gross,  M.D.  Illustrated  by  more 
than  1,300  engravings.  Fourth  Edition,  much  enlarged,  and  carefully  revised. 
2  vols.  8vo.  sheep,  pp.  xxxi.  1049,  and  xxviii.  1087.  1866.  £3  3s. 

Grote. — REVIEW  of  the  Work  of  Mr.  John  Stuart'  Mill,  entitled 

"  Examination  of  Sir  William  Hamilton's  Philosophy."  By  George  Grote, 
author  of  "  The  History  of  Ancient  Greece,"  "  Plato,  and  the  other  Companions 
of  Socrates,"  etc.  12mo.  pp.  112,  cloth.  1868.  3s.  Gd. 

Grout. — THE  ISIZULU.  A  Grammar  of  the  Zulu  Language  ;  accom- 
panied with  a  Historical  Introduction,  also  with  an  Appendix.  By  Eev.  Lewis 
Grout.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  liii.  and  432.  1859.  21s. 

Grout. — ZULU-LAND  ;  or,  Life  among  the  Zulu-Kafirs  of  Natal 
and  Zulu-Land,  South  Africa.  With  Map  and  Illustrations,  largely  from  Ori- 
ginal Photographs.  By  the  Rev.  Lewis  Grout.  Crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  352.  7s.  6d. 

Groves. — JOHN  G-ROVES.    A  Tale  of  the  War.     By  S.  E.  De  M . 

12mo.     Pp.  16,  sewed.  "London,  1846.     Id. 

'  t"  *  * 

Gllizot- — MEDITATIONS  SUR  L'ESSENCE  DE  LA  RELIGION  CHRETIENNE. 

Par  M.  Guizot.     12mo.  paper.     Pp.384.     1£64.    ^s.  6d. 

Glinderode.  —  CORRESPONDENCE  OF  FRAULEIN  GUNDERODE  and 
BETTIXA  vox  AKXIM.  Cr.  8v?>.  cloth,  pp.  356.*  1§61.  6i.  « 


42  Publications  of  Trubner  §  Co. 

Gutenberg,  John,  FIRST  MASTER  PRINTER,  his  Acts,  and  incut 
remarkable  Discourses,  and  his  Death.  From  the  German.  By  C.  "W.  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.  141.  1860.  10s.  6d. 

rr  j, 

Hagen. — NORICA  ;  or,  Tales  from  the  Oflden  Time.  Translated  from 
the  German  of  August  Hagen.  Fcap.  8vo.,  irnamental  binding,  suitable  for 
prs  .entation.  Pp.  xiv.  and  374.  1850-  5*. 

"  This  pleasant  volume  is  got  up  in  that  style  of  imitation  of  the  books  a  century  -go,  which 
has  of  late  become  so  much  the  vogue.  The  typographical  and  mechanical  departments  of  the 
volume  speak  loudly  for  the  taste  and  enterprise  bestowed  upon  it.  Simple  in  its  style,  pithy, 
reasonably  pungent — the  book  smacks  strongly  of  the  picturesque  old  days  of  which  it  treats.  A 
long  study  of  the  art-antiqui'.*s  of  Nurnburg  and  a  profound  acquaintance  with  the  records, 
letters,  and  memoirs,  still  prt-served,  of  the  time,?  of  Albert  Durer  and  his  great  brother  artists, 
have  enabled  the  author  to  lay  before  us  a  forcibly-drawn  and  highly-nni  .hed  pictnre  of  art  and 
household  life  in  that  wonderfully  art-practising  and  art-reverencing  oldcit;  of  Germany." — Atlas. 

"  A  delicious  little  book.  It  is  full  of  a  quairt  garrulity,  and  characterised  by  an  earnest  sim- 
plicity of  thought  and  diction,  which  admirably  conveys  to  the  reader  the  household  ana  artistic 
German  life  of  the  times  of  Maximilian,  Albert  Durer,  and  Hans  S'.chs,  the  celebrated  cobbler  and 
•master  singer,'  as  well  as  most  oflne  artist  celebr.'Wes  of  Niirnberg  in  the  16th  century.  Art  is 
the  chief  end  and  aim  of  this  little  history.  It  is  lauded  and  praised  with  a  sort  of  rnostentatious 
devotion,  which  exphains  the  religious  passion  of  the  early  moulders  of  the  ideal  and  the  beautiful; 
and,  perhaps,  through  a  consequent  deeper  concentration  uf  thought,  the  secret  of  their  sti'^ess." — 
Weekly  Dispatch. 

"  A  volume  full  of  interest  for  the  lover  of  old  times;  while  the'fovjpi  in  which  it  is  presented  to 
us  may  incite  many  to  think  of  art  and  look  into  its  many  wondrous  influences  with  a  curious 
earnestness  unknown  to  them  before.  It  points  a  moral  als",  in  the  knowledge  that  a  people  may 
be  brought  to  take  interest  in  what  is  chaste  and  beautiful  .  s  in  what  is  coarse  and  degrading." — 
Manchester  Examiner.  \\ 

Hall, — THE  LAW  OF  IMPERSONATION  AS  APPLIED  TO  ABSTRACT  IDEAS 
AND  RELIGIOUS  DOGMAS.  By  S.  "W.  Hall.  ThirL  edition,  with  an  Appendix  on 
the  Dual  Constitution  of  First  Causation.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  xxiv.  and  135. 
1863.  4*.  Gd.. 

Hall. — A  CONTRIBUTION  TOWARDS  AN  INDEX  TO  THE  BIBLIOGRAPHY 
OF  THE  INDIAN  PHILOSOPHICAL  SYSTEMS.  By  Fitzedward  Hall,  M.A., 
Inspector  of  Public  Instruction,  Saugor  and  Nerbudda  Territories,  Published 
by  order  of  the  Government  of  the  North  "Western  Provinces.  8vo.  sewed,  pp. 
iv.  and  236.  1859.  7s.  6d. 

Hambleton, — THE  SONG  OF  SONGS  ;  the  Voice  of  the  Bridegroom 
and  the  Voice  of  the  Bride  ;  divided  into  Acts  and  Scenes,  with  the  Dialogues 
apportioned  to  the  different  Interlocutors,  chiefly  as  directed  by  M.  the  Professor 
Ernest  Renan,  Membre  de  1'Institut.  Rendered  into  Verse,  from  the  received 
English  Translation  and  other  Versions.  By  Joseph  Hambleton.  Post  8vo.,  sewed, 
pp.  70.  1864.  2s.  6d, 

Hamilton, — A  PRACTICAL  TREATISE  ON  FRACTURES  AND  DISLOCATIONS. 

By  Frank  H.  Hamilton,  M.D.  3rd  edition,  revised,  8vo.-  cloth,  pp.  777.     1866. 

25s. 
Hammond. — MILITARY  MEDICAL  AND  SURGICAL  ESSAYS.     Prepared 

for  the  United  States  Sanitary  Commission.     Edited  by  "W.  A.  Hammond,  M.D., 

Surgeon-General.     8vo.  cloth,  pp.  552.     1864.     15s. 

Harkness. — LATIN  OLLENDORFF.  Being  a  Progressive  Exhibition  of 
the  Principles  of  the  Latin  Gravnmar.  By  Albert  Harkness,  Ph.  D.  12mo. 
cloth,  pp.  xii.  and  355.  1858.  6s. 

Harris. — A  DICTIONARY  OF  MEDICAL  TERMINOLOCY,  DENTAL-SURGERY, 
AND  THE  COLLATERAL  SCIENCES.  By  Chapin  A.  Harris,  M.D.,  D.D.S.,  Pro- 
fessor of  the  Principles  of  Dental^  Surgery  in  the  Baltimore  College.  Third 
edition,  carefully  revised  T-ind  enlarged,  by  Ferdinand  J.  S.  Gorgas,  M.D., 
D.D.S.,  Professor  of  Dental  ^urgery  in  the  Baltimore  College.  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.744,  1867.  '30s. 


Publications  of  Trubner  §  Co.  43 

o 

Harrison, — THE  MEANING  OF  HISTORY  ;  Two  Lectures  delivered  by 
Frederic  Harrison,  M.A.  %vo.,  pp.  80,  sewed.  1862.  Is. 

Harrison, — SUNDAYS  AND  FESTIVALS.  A  Lecture  delivered  by 
Frederic  Harrison,  Esq.,  M.A.,  at  Sti  Martin's  Hall,  on  Sunday  evening,  March 
Ip^h,  1867.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  15,  -1867.  2d. 

Hartzenbu&€h,  J,  E,,  and  ft,  Lfemming,  —  Eco  DE  MADRID  :  A  Practical 

Guide  to  Spanish  Conversation.     Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  240.     1860.     5s. 

Haslett. — THE  MECHANICS,',  MACHINISTS',  AND  ENGINEERS'  PRACTICAL 
EOOK  OF  REFERENCE,  containing  Tablcs^d  Formulae  for-»use  in  superficial  and 
solid  Mensuration  ;  IStr^ngtlo  and '"Weight  of  Materials;  Mechanics,  Machinery, 
Hydraulics,  Hydrodynamics,  Marine  Engines,  Chemistry,  and  miscellaneous 
Recipes^.  Adapted  to  and  for  the  use  of  all  Practical  Mechanics.  Together  with 
the  Engineer' s|  Field  Boo'la;  containing  Formulae  for  the  various  Methods  of 
running  and  changing  Lines,  locating  Sides-tracks  and  Switches,  etc.,  ^tc. ;  Tables 
of  Radii  indtheir  Logarithms,  natural  and  logarithmic  versed  Sines  and  external 
Secants>_  natural  Sines  and  Tang^fits  to  everp  Degree  and  Minute  of  the 
'  Quadrant*  and  Logarithms  qf  natural  Numbers  from  1  to  10,000.  By  Charles 
Haslett,  Civil  Engineer.  ,""•' Edited  by  Charles  W.  Hackley,  Professor  of  Mathe- 
matics. Fcap.  8vo.  tuck,  pp.  533.  1866.  12s. 

Hasty  CONCLUSIONS;  OR,  THE 'SAYINGS  THAT  WENT  ABROAD.  16mo. 
sewed,  pp.  20.  1866.  Is. 

Hang, — ESSAYS  ON  THE  SACI^ED  LANGUAGE,  WRITINGS,  AND  BELIGION 
OF  THE  PARSEES.  By  Martin  Haug,  Dr.  Phil.  Superintendent  of  Sanskrit 
Studies  in  the  Poona  College.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  278.  1862.  31s.  6d. 

Hang. — OUTLINE  OF  A  GRAMMAR  OF  THE  ZEND  LANGUAGE.  By 
Martin  Haug,  Ph.  D.  8vo.,  sewed,  pp.  82.  1862.  18s. 

Hang, — THE  AITAREYA  BRAHMANAM  OF  THE  EIG  VEDA  :  containing 
the  Earliest  Speculations  of  the  Brahmans  on  the  meaning  of  the  Sacrificial 
Prayers,  and  on  the  Origin,  Performance,  and  Sense  of  the  Rites  of  the  Vedic 
Religion.  Edited,  Translated,  and  Explained  by  Martin  Haug,  Ph.  D.,  Super- 
intendent of  Sanskrit  Studies  in  the  Poona  College,  etc.,  etc.  In  2  Vols.  Crown 
8vo.  Vol.  I.  Contents,  Sanskrit  Text,  with  Preface,  Introductory  Essay,  and 
a  Map  of  the  Sacrificial  Compound  at  the  Soma  Sacrifice,  pp.  312.  Vol.  II. 
Translation  with  Notes,  pp.  544.  1863.  £2  2s. 

Hang, — A  LECTURE  ON  AN  ORIGINAL  SPEECH  OF  ZOROASTER  (Yasna 
4&),  with  remarks  on  his  age.  By  Martin  Haug,  Ph.  D.  8vo.  pp.  28,  sewed. 
1865.  2s. 

. — AN  OLD  ZAND-PAHLAV*  GLOSSARY.  Edited  in  the  Original 
Characters,  with  a  Transliteration  in  Roman  Letters,  an  English  Translation, 
and  an  Alphabetical  Index.  By  Destur  Hoshengji  Jamaspji,  High-priest  of  the 
Parsis  in  Malwa,  India.  Revised  with  Notes  and  Introduction  by  Martin 
Haug,  Ph.  D.,  late  Superintendent  of  Sanscrit  Studies  in  the  Poona  College, 
Foreign  Member  of  the  Rgpyal  Bavarian  Academy.  Published  by  order  of  the 
Governmental'  Bombay.  08vo.  sewed,  j^).lvi.  and  132.  1867.  15s.  „ 

«  '  '  -, 

Hang, — THE  RELIGION  OF  THE  ZOROASTRIANS,  as*  contained  in  their 
Sacred  Writings.  With  a  History  of  the  Ze»d  an<j  JPehlevi  Literature,  and  a 
Grammar  of  the  Zend  and  Pehlevi  Languages.  By**Martin  Haug,  Ph.  D.,  lato 
Superintendent  of  Sanscrit  Studies  in  the  Poc^a  College.  2  vols.  8vo.  [In 
preparation.]  » 


I 

44 «  Publications  of  Trilbner  &  Co. 

' 

Haupt, — MILITARY  BRIDGES  :  with  Suggestions  of  New  Expedients 
and  Constructions  for  Crossing  Streams  and  Chasms.'  Including  also  Designs  for 
Trestle  and  Truss  Bridges  f<|  r  Military  Railroads,  kdapted  especially  t^  the 
wants  of  the  Service  in  the  United  States.  By  Hermann  Haupt,  A.M.,  Civil 
Engineer.  Illlstrated  by  69  Lithographic  engravings.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xix.  and 
^10.  1864.  25s.  i 

Haupt, — GENERAL  THEORY  OF  BRIDGE'  CONSTRUCTION  :  containing 
Demonstrations  of  the  Principles  of  the  Art  and  their  Application  to  Practice  ; 
furnishing  the  means  of  calculating  the  Strains  upon  the  Chords,  Ties, 'Brac'us, 
Counter-braces,  and'other  parts  of  a  Bridge  or  Firame  of  any  •description.  With 
practical  Illustrati6ns.  By  Hemwff  Haupt,  A.M.,  Civil  Engineer.  New 
Edition.  Eoyal  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  268.  Plates.  18*07.  /l&f; 

Hazard, — ESSAY  ON  LANGUAGE  AND  OTHER  PAPERS.  By  Rowland 
G.  Hazard.  Edited  by  E.  P.  Peahody.  8vo.  clotk*  pp.  348.  1857*.  7s,  &d. 

Hazard,— FREEDOM  OF  MIND  IN*  WILLING  ;  OR,  EVERY,  BEING  THAT 
WILLS  A  CREATIVE  FIRST.^  CAUSE.  By  Eowland  G.  Hazard.  "8yo.  cloth, 
pp.  xviii.  and  456.  1865.  7s.  6d. 

Hazard. — OUR  RESOURCES.  A  Series  of  Articles  on  the  Financial 
and  Political  Condition  of  the  United  States  By  Eowland  G.  Hazard.  8vo. 
sewed,  pp.  32.  1864.  1*. 

Hearts  IN  MORTMAIN,  and  CORNELIA.  Two  Novels.  Post  8vo.  Fancy 
boards.  Pp.  206  and  252.  1863.  Each  Is.  &d. 

Heatherington, — A  PRACTICAL  GUIDE  FOR  TOURISTS,  MINERS,  AND 
INVESTORS,  and  all  Persons  interested  in  the  Development  of  the  Gold  Fields  of 
Nova  Scotia.  By  A.  Heatherington,  Author  of  Cosmopolite's  Statistical  Chart 
and  Petraglot  Eeviews,  adopted  by  the  Department  of  Mines,  and  the  Paris 
Exhibition  Committee,  etc.,  etc.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  180.  1868.  2s. 

Heaviside. — AMERICAN  ANTIQUITIES  ;  or,  the  New  World  the  Old, 
and  the  Old  World  the  New.  By  John  T.  C.  Heaviside.  ,  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  46. 
Is.  6d.  • 

Hecker. — THE  EPIDEMICS  OF  THE  MIDDLE  AGES.  Translated  by  G. 
B.  Babington,  M.D.,  F.E.S.  Third  Edition,  completed  by  the  Author's 
Treatise  on  Child-Pilgrimages.  By  J.  F.  C.  Hecker.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  384. 
1859.  9s.  6d. 

Contents : — The  Black  Death — The  Dancing  Mania — The  Sweating  Sickness — 
Child  Pilgrimages. 

Heine, — SELECTIONS  FROM  THE  POETRY  OF  HENRICH  HEINE.  Trans- 
lated by  John  Ackerlos.  12mo.  pp.  viii.  and  66,  stiff  cover.  1854.  Is. 

Heine. — PICTURES  OF  TRAVEL.  Translated  from  the  German  of 
Henry  Heine.  By  Charles  G.  Leland.  Fifth  revised  edition.  Crown  8vo. 
cloth,  pp.  472.  1866.  10s.  6d. 

Heine. — HEINE'S  BOOJC  OF  SONGS.  By  Heinrich  Heine.  Translated 
by  Charles  G.  Leland,  author  of  "  Meister  Karl's  Sketch-book,  and  Sunshine  in 
Thought."  Cloth,  fcap.  8vo.  pp.  xiv.  and  240.  1£6S.  Is. 

Hennell- — AN  ESSAY  ON  THE  f  SCEPTICAL  TENDENCY  OF  BUTLER'S 
"Analogy."  By  Sa/a  S.  Hennell.  12mo.  sewed,  pp.  66.  1859.  Is. 

Hennell. — THOUGHTS  ir?  AID  OF  FAITH.  Gathered  chiefly  from,recent 
works  in  Theology  and^PKlosophy.     By  Sara  S.  Hennell.      Post  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.428.     186C.     10s.  6^. 
r' 


Publications  of  Triibner  fy  Co.  45 

Heriiiell. — PRIZE  ESSAY.  Christianity  and  Infidelity,  an  Exposition 
of  Arguments  on  both  'sides.  By  Sara  S.  Hcnnell.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  173. 

1857.     3s.  6d. 

•j 

Hennell, — THE  EARLY  CHRISTIAN  ANTICIPATION  OF  A$  APPROACHING 
EXD  OF  THE  WOULD,  and  its  bearing  iipon  the  Character  of  Christianity  as  a 
Divine  Revelation.  Including  an  investigation  into  the  primitive  meaning*  of 
the  Anticlirist  and  Man  of  Sin'';  and  an  examination  of  the  argument  of  the 
Fifteenth  Chapter  of  Gibbon.  By  Sara  S.  Hennell.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  136. 
•1860s  2s.  6d. 

Hennell. — PRESENT  RELIGION,  as  a'-jFaith  owning!)  Fellowship  with 
Thought.  Part  I.  "$$  Sar?,  S.  Hennell,  Author  of  "  Thoughts  in  Aid  of  Faith." 
Crowa.  8Vo.  cloth,  p^r,o70.  1865.  7s.  6d. 

Hepburn.— A  JAPANESE,  AND  ENGLISH  DISTIONARY.  With  an 
English!  and  Japanese  Index.  By  J.  C., .Hepburn,  AtM.,  M.D.  Imperial  8vo. 
cloth,  pp., xri,  560  and  132.  1867.  £5  5s. 

Hejbert.^TiiE  SANITARY  CONDITION  OF  THE  ARMY.  By  the  Eight 
Honourable  Sidney  Herbert,  M.P.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  48.  1859.  Is.  6d. 

Hemisz. — A  ,G-triDE  TO  CONVERSATION  in  the  English  and  Chinese 
Languages,  for  the  Use  of  Americans  and  Chinese,  in  California  and  elsewhere. 
By  Stanislas  Hernisz.  Square  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  274.  1855.  10s.  6d. 

The  Chinese  characters  contained  in  Jjhis  work  are  from  the  collections  of  Chinese  groups,  en- 
graved on  steel,  and  cast  into  moveable  types,  by  Mr.  Marcellin  Legrand,  Engraver  of  the  Impe- 
rial Printing  Office  at  Paris;  they  are  used  by  most  of  the  Missions  to  China. 

Hervey. — THE  POEMS  OF  THOMAS  KIBBLE  HERVEY.  Edited  by  Mrs. 
Hervey.  With  a  Memoir.  16mo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  437.  1866.  6s. 

Herzen, — Du  DEVELOPPEMENT  DES  IDEES  EEVOLUTIONNAIRES  EN 
RUSSLE.  Par  Alexander  Herzen.  12mo.  sewed,  pp.  xxiii.  and  144.  1853.  2s.  6d. 

Herzen. — LA  FRANCE  ou  L'ANGLETERRE  ?  Variations  Eussos  sur  le 
theme  de  1'attentat  du  14  Janvier  1858.  Par  Iscander.  1858.  Is. 

Herzen. — FRANCE  OR  ENGLAND  ?    .8vo.     1858.     6d. 

Herzen.  —  NOTJVELLE  PHASE  DE  LA  LITTERATTJRE  EUSSE.  Par  A. 
Herzen.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  81.  1864.  2s.  6d. 

Hester  and  Elinor ;  OR,  THE  DISCIPLINE  OF  SUFFERING. — A  Tale. 
Crown  8vo.,  fancy  boards,  pp.  473.  1863.  2s. 

Hickok. — A  SYSTEM:  OF  MORAL  ^  SCIENCE.  By  Lawrens  P.  Hickok, 
D.D.,  Author  of  "  .Rational  Psychology."  Royal  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  432. 
1853.  12s. 

Higginson. — WOMAN   AND  HER  WISHES.     AnJSssay.     By  Thomas 
Wentworth  Higginson.     Post  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  23.     1854.     Is. 
• 

Eincks. — SPECIMEN  CHAPTERS,,  OF  AN  »ASSYRIAN  GRAMMAR,.  By  t*he 
Rev.  E.  Hincks,  D.D.,  Honorary  Member  Royal  Asiatic  Society  of  Great  Britain 
and  Ireland.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  40.  1866.  Is. 

V 
Histoirs   DU   GRAND    ORIENT   DE   FRANCE.      8vo    sewed,  pp.  528. 

1865.     6s.  *  *    *  • 


46 «  Publications  of  Triibner  fy  Co. 

Historical  SKETCHES  OF  THE  OLD  PAINTERS.  By  the  Authcfr  of 
"Three  Experiments  of  Livmg,"  etc.  Crown  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  181.  1858.  2s. 

Hitchcock, — RELIGIOUS  LECTURES  ON  PECULIAR  PHENOMENA  OF'  THE 
FOUR  SEASONS*,  Delivered  to  the  Students  in  Amhurst  College,  in  1845-47-48- 
49.  By  Edward  Hitchcock.  12mo.  sewed,  pj.  72.  1852.  Is.  ., 

Hittell, — THE  RESOURCES  OF  CALIFORNIA.  'Third  editior,  by  John 
S.  Hittell.  Cloth,  pp.  xvi.  and  461.  10s. 

Hoffmann, — SHOPPING  DIALOGUES  in  Japanese,  Dutch,  and  English. 
By  J.  Hoffmann.  f*blong  8vo.,  sewe*1,  pp.  xiii.  £hd  44.  18(>L  3s. 

Hole, — LECTURES  ON  SOCIAL  SCIENCE  r  ANIJ,  Tip  £  ORGANIZATION  OF 
LABOUR.  By  James  Hole.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  xi.  andJS?!  1851.  2s.  6<V. 

Holley, — ORDNANCE  A^m  ARMOUR  :  embracing  a  Description  of 
Standard  European  a* I  American  Ordnance,  Rifling,  and  Projectiles/  and  their 
Materials* Fabrications,  and  Test,  and  the  Results  6f  Practice ;  .also  a  Detailed 
Account  of  Experiments  against  Armour.  By  Alex.  L.  Holley,  B.P.'  With  480 
Engravings  and  150  Tables  of  Results.  *0ne  vol.  8vo.,  pp.  950.  B>5i' morocco. 
1865.  £2  5s.  '  •  ,< 

Hollister, — THE  MINES  OF  THE  COLORADO.  By  Ovando  J.  Hollister. 
"With  map,  pp.  vii.  and  450.  1867.  10*.  \ 

Holly, — THE  CARPENTER'S  AND  JOINER^  HAND-BOOK,  containing  a 

Complete  Treatise  on  Framing  Hip  and  Valley  Roots.  Together  with  much 
valuable  instruction  for  all  Mechanics  and  M nateurs,  useful  rules,  tables,  etc., 
never  before  published.  By  H.  W.  Holly,  Practical?  Architect  and  Builder. 
Illustrated  by  37  Engravings.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  50.  1868.  2s.  6d.  , 

Holly. — THE  ART  OF  SAW-FILING,  SCIENTIFICALLY  ^TREATED  AND 
EXPLAINED  ox  PHILOSOPHICAL  PRINCIPLES.  With  full  and  explicit  Directions 
for  putting  in  Order  all  kinds  of  Saws,  from  a  Jeweller's  Saw  to  a  Steam  Saw- 
mill. Illustrated  by  forty-four  engravings.  By  H.  W.  Holly,  Author  of  "  The 
Carpenter's  and  Joiner's  Hand-book."  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  56.  1864.  2s.  Qd. 

Holmes.— THE  POEMS  OF  OLIVER  WENDELL  HOLMES.  Blue  and 
Gold  Series.  12mo.  ploth,  pp.  xi.  and  410.  1866.  6s. 

Home. — PLAIN  THOUHTS,  by  a  Plain  Man,  on  the  State  of  the 
Church  of  England.  By  Jeremiah  Home,  Esq.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  8.  1868.  2d. 

Horrocks, — ZENO.  A  Tale  of  the  Italian  "War,  and  other  Poems. 
To  which  are  added  Translations  from  Modern  German  Poetry.  By  James 
D.  Horrocks.  12mo.,  pp.  vii.  and  286,  cloth.  1854.  5s. 

Houghton. — AN  ESSAY  ON  THE  CANTICLES,  OR  THE  SONG  OF  SONGS. 
With  a  Translation  of  the  Poem  and  sho$t  Explanatory  Notes.  By  the  Rev. 
W.  Houghton,  M.A.,  F.L.S.,  Rector  of  Preston  on  the  Wild  Moors,  Shropshire. 
8vo.  cloth,  pp.  67.  1865.  2s.  Qd. 

Howells. — VENETIAN  r  LIFE.  By  "William  D.  Howells,  formerly 
United  States  Consul  at  Venice!  Crown  8vo.  cloth.  Second  Edition.  Pp.  401. 
1867.  7s.  Gd.  „ 

Ho'witt, — THE  DUSSELDORF  ARTISTS'  AC-BUM.  ',.Twenty-s*even  superb 
Litho-tint  Illustrations,  frcmi  Drawings  by  Achenbach,  Hubner,  Jordan,  Lessing, 
Leutze,  Schadow,  Tideryand,  eV;-  With  Contributions,  original  and  translated, 
by  Mary  Howitt,  Anne  ?.Iary  Howitt,  Francis  Bennoch,  etc.  Edited  by  Mary 
Howitt.  4to,  elegantly  bou^d  in  cloth,  18s.  jror,  in  fancy  leather  binding,  £1  Ls 
1862.  < 


Publications  of  Triibner  fy  Co.  '47 

, — A    GRAMMAR   OF   THE   CREE    LANGUAGE.     With  which  is 
combined  an  analysis  of  the  Chippeway  Dialect.      By  Joseph  Howse,  Esq., 
»,F.R.G.S.     8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xx.  and  324.     186^5.     7s.  6d. 

Hugh  Bryan  :  THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  AN  IRISH  B&BEL.    8vo.  cloth, 
"  pp.  478.     1866.     10s.  6/7.    '  f) 

Humbofdt. — LETTERS  OF  WILLIAM  VON  HUMBOLDT  TO  A  FEMALE 
BKIEXD.  A  complete  Edition.  Translated  front  the  Second  German  Edition 
by  Catherine,  M.  A.  Couper,  with  a  Biographical  Notice  of  the  Writer.  Two 
vols.  Crown  8vo.  cloth,  ^>p.  xxviii,  tmd  592.  1867.  ',10s. 

Humboldt. — Tflk,  VSPB*ERE  AND  DUTIES  OF  GOVERNMENT.  Trans- 
late/1 from  the  GermaTi  of  Baron  Wilhelia  Von  Humboldt,  by  Joseph  Coulthard, 

Jim.     tost  8vo.  cloth/>p.  xv.  and  203.     1854.    ,5s. 

» 

Humbpldt  (ALEX.  'VoN), —  LETTERS  TO  VARNHAGES"  VON  ENSE. 
Authorised  English  Translation,  with  Explanatory  'Xotes,  and  a  full  Index  of 
Names.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xxvi.  and  334.  1860.  12*. 

Hunt. — ON  THE  CHEMISTRY  OF  THE  GLOBE.  A  Manual  of  Chemical 
Geology.,  By  Dr.  T.  Sterry  '^lunt,  F.R.S.  2  vols.  8vo.  \In  preparation. 

Hunt, — POPULAR  LECTURES  ON  CHEMICAL  AND  PHYSICAL  GEOLOGY. 
Delivered  before  the  Lowell  Institute,  by  Dr.  T.  Sterry  Hunt,  F.R.S.  1  vol. 
8vo.  I-  [ In  preparation. 

Hunt, — THE  EELIGION  OF  THE  HEART.  A  Manual  of  Faith  and 
Duty.  By  Leigh  Hunt.  Fcap.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xxiv.  and  259.  1853.  6s. 

Hunt, — INTRODUCTORY  ADDRESS  ON  THE  STUDY  OF  ANTHROPOLOGY, 
delivered  before  the  Anthropological  Society  of  London,  February  24th,  1863. 
By  James  Hunt,  Ph.  D.,  F.S.A.,  F.R.S.L.,  President.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  20. 
1863.  Qd. 

Hunt. — ANNIVERSARY  ADDRESS  delivered  before  the  Anthropological 
Society  of  London,  January  5th,  1864.  By  Jajaes  Hunt,  Ph.  D.,  F.S.A., 
F.R.S.L.,  F.A.S.L.,  etc.,  etc.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  32.  1864.  6d. 

Hunt, — ANNIVERSARY  ADDRESS  delivered  before  the  Anthropological 
Society  of  London,  January  3rd,  1865.  Dedicated  to  the  British  Association 
for  the  Advancement  of  Science.  By  James  Hunt,  Ph.  D.,  F.S.A.,  F.E.S.L., 

•    F.A.S.L.,  etc.,  etc.     8vo.  sewed,  pp.  viii.  and  32.     1865.     6d. 

Hunt, — A  LETTER  addressed  to  the  Members  of  the  British 
Association  for  the  Advancenfent  of  Science,  on  the  desirability  of  appointing 

ta  Special  Section  for  Anthropology.  By  James  Hunt,  Ph.  D.,  F.S.A.,  F.R.S.L., 
F.A.S.L.  Post  8vo.,  sewed,  pp.  8.  Printed  for  Private  Circulation.  6d. 

Hunt, — ON  THE  NEGRO'S  PLACE  IN  NATURE.  By  James  Hunt, 
Esq.,  Ph.  D.,  F.S.A^  F.R.S. L.,  President  of  the  Anthropological  Society  of 
London*  8vo.,  sewe*!,  pp.  60,  18*3.  »  Is. 

Hurst, — HISTORY  OF  RATIONALISM  :  embracing  a  Survey  of  the 
Present  State  of  Protestant  Theology.  "By  tltf  Rev.  John  F.  Hurst,  A.M. 
"Nv'ith  Appendix  of  Literature.  Revised  and  enlarged  from  the  Third  American 
Edition.  Small  8vo.,  cloth,*pp.  xvii.  and  52?.  *1867. 


48      «,  Publications  of  Triibner  fy  Co. 

«  ,  i 

Hutton, — MODERN  WARFARE  ;  its  Positive  Theory  and  True  Policy. 

With  an  application  to  the  Russian  War,  and  sen.  Answer  to  the  Question 
"What  shall  we  do?"  By  Heiry  Dix  Hutton,  Barrister.  8  vo.  sewed,  pp.  7^. 
1855.  1*. 

Ibis  (THE). — A  I^AGAZINE  OF  GENERAL  ORNITHOLOGY.      Edited  by( 
Pbtiip  Lutley  Sclater,  M.A.     Vol.  i.     1859.     8vo.  clath.     Coloured  Plates. 
Vol.  ii.,  1860. 
Vol.  iii.,  1861.     £1  6s. 

Vol.  iv.,  1862.     £1  6s!  c       * 

Vol.  v.,  1863.     £]*C*.  ».  «- 

Vol.  vi.,  1864.     £H  6s.  r '  • 

Ihne, — A  LATEST  GRAMMAR  FOR  BEGINNERS.  '  By^  TV.  H  Ihne,  date 
Principal  of  Carlton  Terrace  School,  .Li verpool.  CrowM  f3vo.  cloth,  pp.  vi.  and 
184.  1864.  3s.  « 

. 

India. — BREACH  OF  FA!TH  IN  ;  or,  Sir  John  Lawrence's  Policy  ii? 
Oudh.  Svo.  sewed,  pp.  40.  Is.  6d. 

Indian  Annexations,  —  BRITISH  TREATMENT  OF  NATIVE  BR*INCES( 
Eeprinted  from  the  Westminster  Review.  New  Seriefe,  JVo.  xlv.  January,  1863* 
Revised  and  corrected.  Svo.  sewed,  pp.  48.  1863.  Is.' 

Indian  INVESTMENTS,  A  GUIDE  TO,  interesting  to  Shareholders  or 
or  intending  Shareholders  in  the  following  Joint  Scock  Companies ; — East  Indian 
Railway,  Great  Indian  Peninsular  Railway,  Madras  Railway,  Scinde  Railway, 
Indus  Flotilla,  Punjaub  Railway,  Bombay  and«Baroda  Railway,  Eastern  of 
Bengal  Railway,  Calcutta  and  South  Eastern  Railway,  Madras  Irrigation  Com- 
pany, Oriental  Inland  Steam  Company,  Peninsular  and  Oriental  Steam  Com- 
pany. By  a  Manchester  Man.  Second  edition.  With  an  introduction  exposing 
the  hollowness  of  Indian  guarantees.  Svo.  sewed,  pp.  viii.  and  40.  ]  861.  Is. 

Inman. — ANCIENT  FAITHS  EMBODIED  IN  ANCIENT  NAMES.  By 
Thomas  Inman,  M.D.  Vol.  1,  8vo.,  containing  pp.  viii.  and  790,  and  illustrated 
with  5  Plates  and  numerous  Woodcuts.  30s. 

Inspiration, — By  J.  B.     24mo.  sewed,  pp.  51.     1865.     Is. 

Inspiration  |  How  is  IT  BELATED  TO  REVELATION  AND  THE  REASON  ? 
With  a  few  remarks  suggested  by  recent  criticisms  on  Mansel's  Bampton 
Lectures.  Svo.  limp  cloth,  pp.  64.  1859.  2s. 

International  Exhibition  of  1862, — OFFICIAL  CATALOGUE  OF  THE 
MINING  AND  METALLURGICAL  PRODUCTS;  Class  1,  in  the  Zollverein  Depart- 
ment of  the  International  Exhibition,  1862.  Compiled  under  the  immediate 
direction  of  Mr.  Von  Dechen.  By  Dr.  Hermann  Wedding.  Royal  Svo.  sewed, 
pp.  106  1862.  Is. 

International  Exhibition  Of  1862, — AUSTRIA  AT  THE  INTERNATIONAL 
EXHIBITION  OF  1862.  Upon  Orders  from  the  J.  R.  Ministry  for  Commerce  and 
National  Economy.  By  Professor  Dr.  Jos.  Arenstein,  Vienna,  1862.  Royal  8vo., 
paper  covers,  pp.  125.  1862.  Is. 

International    Exhibition    Of  '1862. — SPECIAL    CATALOGUE   OF    THE 
ZOLLVEREIN  DEPARTMENT.     Edited  by  Authority  of  ftie  Commissioners  of  the 
ZolKere^u-Governments,  togetb.tr  witK  Advertisements^  Recommendations,  and 
Illustrations.     Royal  8v<?.,  sevred,  pp.  180  and  Ixxix.     1S62.     Is. 
Ditto  ditto,  in  German,  ,r»p.  196  and  cxv.     Is. 

F  * 

Jackson's   GYMNASTIC   EXERCISES    FOR   THE   FINGERS    AND 
With  numerous  ^.lustrations''    Vost  Svo.,  cloth, 'pp.  x.  and  90.     1865.    3s. 


Publications  of  TrUbner  fy  Co.  *       49 

j 

Jackson.  —  ECHOES  FROM   MY   YOUTH,    AND   OTHER   POEMS.     By  J. 

W.  Jackson.     12mo.,  t?loth,  pp.  126.     1864.1  2s.  6</. 

j'&ckson.  —  ETHNOLOGY  AND  PHRENOLOGY  AS  AN  AID  TO  THE 

HISTORIAN.     By  J.  W.  Jaekso.ii.  >  Crown  8vo.,  cloth,  pp.  2«>4.     1863.     4.s. 

'Jacobus.  —  REFLECTIONS  ON  THE  PSALMS  OF  DAVID  AS  INSPIRED 
COMPOSITIONS  ;  and  asiiidicsVrin^  "  tlm  Philosophy  of  Jewish  Faith."  By  Jacobus. 
8vo.  sewed,  pp.  iv.  and  32.  1863.  l.v. 

Jaeschke,  —  ,A  SHORT  PRACTICAL  GRAMMAR  OF  THE  TIBETAN 
LANCU'AOE,  with  Special  lleference.  ft^  the  Spoken  Dialects.  By  II.  A.  Jacschke, 
Moravian  Missiityaiiy.  Svo.,  pp.  60.  1865.  2s.  6d. 


Jamison.  —  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF  BERTRAND  Du  GUESCLIN.     A 

History  of  the  Fonrte*yth  Century.     By  D.   F«.  Jamison,  of   South    Carolina. 
Portrait.     ''Two  vols.  8vo..  elegantly  printed,  extril  cloth,  pp.  xjd.  287,  and  viii. 
1    314.  .  1864.     £1  l.v.  ' 

Jay.-'-TnE  AMERICAN  REBELLION  ;    its  'History,  its  Aims,  and  the 
'      lleasons  why  it  niustr,bc  Suppressed.     An  Address.     By  John  Jay.     Post  8vo. 
sewed,  pp.  50.     1861';     1*. 

Jay.  —  THE  GREAT  CONSPIRACY.  An  Address.  By  John  Jay.  Svo. 
ijewed,  pp.  50.  1861.  Is.  ' 

Jenkins's  VEST-POCKET  LEXICON.      A  Dictionary  of  all  except  the 

common  Words  which  everybody  knows.  By  omitting  these  it  contains  the  less 
familiar  Words,  an  I  the  principal  Scientific  and  Technical  Terms,  Foreign 
Moneys,  Weights  and  Measures  ;  also  the  common  Latin  and  French  Phrases  of 
two  and  three  Words,  Law  Terms,  etc. 

"  A  little  book,  entitled,  '  Jenkins's  Vest-pocket  Lexicon,'  has  just  been  published  by 
Messrs.  TrUbner  and  Co.,  of  Paternoster-row,  which  has  a  somewhat  novel  but  very  useful 
design.  The  object  of  the  work  is  to  compress  within  the  smallest  practicable  compass  a  full 
lev  icon  of  all  the  words  used  in  writing  or  speaking  English,  except  —  and  in  the  exception 
lies  tbe  essence  of  the  unde>  taking  —  those  which  may  fairly  be  considered  familiar  to  every 
one.  Thus  every  word  which  any  reader  but  the  most  ignorant,  and  any  reader  but  the  most 
amazingly  learned,  could  nee;  to  look  for  in  a  dictionary,  is  to  be  found  in  the  columns  of  this 
little  book.  vVe  have  put  it  to  several  tests,  by  looking  out  for  peculiar  scientific  words, 
terms  used  in  arf,  legal  phrases,  names  of  foreign  coii.s,  titles  bf  foreign  officials,  etc.,  and,  so 
far  as  our  examination  went,  have  not  found  it  to  fail  in  any  instance.  We  can,  therefore, 
cordially  recommend  it  to  waters  as  well  as  to  readers.  It  really  does  fit  ia  the  waistcoat 
pocket,  and  may  literally  be  made  a  constant  companion.  —  Morning  Star,  July  17. 
64rno.  limp  morocco,  pp.  560.  1861.  2s.  Gtt. 

Jewish    (A)  REPLY  TO  DR.  COL-ENSO'S  CRITICISM    ON   THE  PENTA- 
«  TEUCH.     Issued  by  the  Jewish  Association  for  the  Diffusion  of  Religious  Know- 
ledge.    Svo.  cloth,  pp.  ix.  and  147.     1865.     3s. 

'Ioavve9.  —  3>i\o\oyiKa  Trapepja  VTTO  ^ikiTnrov  'laydvvov  Kadrj- 
•yjjrou  rijg  <f>i\o<ro^iiag  irapu  r<£  TravtTriirrrifiiy  'AOrjviJv,  (Literary  Miscellanies. 
By  Philippe  Joannes,  Professor  of  Philosophy  at  the  University  of  Athens). 
Svo.  cloth,  pp.  488.  10s.  6d. 

John  Groves.  —  A  TALE  OF  THE  WAR.      By  S.    E.    de  M  —  .  12mo. 

sewed,  pr>.  16.     1856.  *2il.  * 

'  *  V  •  » 


Jolowicz. — THE  FIRST  EPISTLE  OF  BAI:U(.H.    .  Translated  from  the 


50  Publications  of  Trubner  §  Co. 

Joinini. — THE  ART  OF  WAR.      By  Baron  de  Jpmini,  General  and 

Aide-de-Camp  to  the  Emperor  of  ilussia.  A  New  Edition,  with  Appendices  and 
Maps.  Translated  from  the  French.  By  Capt.  G.  H.  Jkkndell,  and  Capt.  Wi 
0.  Craighill.  Crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  410.  1864.  9s. 

Jonrini. — TREATISE  ox  GRAND  MILITARY  OPERATIONS,  or  a  Critical 

amf'Military  History  of  the  Wars-  of  Frederick  the  Gre,jt,  as  contrasted  with  the 
modem  system.  Together  with  a  few  of  the  mo.-it  important  principle  of  the 
Art  of  War.  By  Baron  Jommi,  Commander-in-Chief,  and  Aide-de-Camp  to  the 
Emperor  of  Russia.  Translated  from  the  French  by  Col.  S.  B.  Holabird,  U.S.A. 
Illustrated  with  Maps  a«fl  Plans.  2  vols.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  448,  496,;  and  an  Atlas, 
containing  39  maps  and  plans  of  battles, ,,t  /I  1-1 762.  1865.  £3. 

Jomini, — THE  MILITARY  AND  POLITICAL  LI^E  OF/  THE  EMPEROR 
NAPOLEON.  By  Baron  Jomini,  General-in-Chief,  and^  Aide-de-Camp  to  the 
Emperor  of  Russia.  Translated  from  the  French,  with  JTotes,  by  H.  W.  Halleck, 
LL.D.,  Major-General  U.S.  Army.  4  vols.,  royal  8vb.  cloth,  pp.  ?95,  451,  414, 
453,  with  an  Atlas  of  60  Maps  and  Plan's/  1'864.  £4  4*1 

Jomini, — THE  POLITICAL  ANO  MILITARY^  HISTORY  OF  THE  CAMPAIGN 
OF  WATERLOO.  Translated  from  the  French  of  General  Baron  de  Jomini,  by 
Captain  S.  V.  Benet,  United  States  Ordnance.  Third?' Edition.  12rno.  cloth 
pp.  .  6s. 

This  is  a  separate  reprint  of  the  twenty-second  chapter  of  "  Jomvni's  Life  of 
Napoleon,"  and  forms  a  capital  summary  of  the  campaign. 

Jones. — WARNING  ;  OR,  THE  BEGINNING  OF  THE  END.  An  Address 
to  the  Jews.  By  C.  Jones.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  58.  ^1866.  2s. 

Jlisti, — HANDBUCH  DER  ZENDSPRACHE,  VON  FERDINAND  JUSTI. 
Altbactrisches  Woerterbuch.  Grammatik  Chrestomathie.  Four  parts,  4to. 
sewed,  pp.  xxii.  and  424.  Leipzig,  1864.  24s. 

Kafir  Essays,  AND  OTHER  PIECES;  with  an  English  Translation. 
Edited  by  the  Right  Rev.  the  Bishop  of  Grahamstown.  32rno.  sewed,  pp.  84. 
1861.  2s.  Gd. 

Karcher, — IIES  ECRIVAINS  MILITAIRES  DE  LA  FRANCE.  Par  Theodore 
Karcher,  Professeur  a  1'Academie  Royale  Militaire  de  Woolwich,  etc.  8vo.  cloth, 
with  numerous  Illustratkns.  Pp.  viii.  and  348.  1866.  7s.  Gd. 

Karcher,  —  QUESTIONNAIRE     FRANC,  AIS.        Questions    on    French 
Grammar,    Idiomatic   Difficulties,   and    Military   Expressions.       By   Theodore 
Karcher,  LL.B.     12rno.  cloth,  pp.  111.     1865.     2s.  Gd. 
Interleaved  with  writing  paper.     3s. 

Kaulbach, — ALBUM-THIERFABELN,  GESCHICHTEN  UND  MARCHEN  IN 
BILDERN.  Nach  Original-Federzeichnungen  von  Wilhelm  von  Kaulbach, 
In  Holz-schitten  von  J.  G.  Flegel.  Text  von  Dr.  Julius  Grosse.  12  plates, 
oblong  folio.  10s.  Gd.  " 

Kendrick. — GREEK  OLLENDORFF.  A  Progressive  Exhibition  of  the 
Principles  of  the  Greek  Grammar.  By  Asahel  C.  Kenrick.  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  371. 
1857.  6s. 

Keyne. — SPELLS  AND  VOICES.  By  Ada  Kpyne.  12ino.  cloth, 
pp.  •  124.  1865.  2s.  Gd.  ,  *l 

Khirad-AfrOZ  (The  '-Illuminator  of  the  Understanding).  By 
Maulavi  Hafizu'd-d'm.  A,  jVew  Edition  of  the  Hindustani  Text,  carefully  Re- 
vised, with  Notes,  Critical  ind  Explanatory.  By  Edward  B.  Eastwick,  F,R.S., 
F. S. A.,  M.R.A.S.,  Professor.  o£  Hindustani  at f  the  late  East  India  Company's 
College  at  Haile'ybury.  Svo.  cloth,. pp.  xiv.  and  321.  1868.  18s. 


Publications  of  Triibner  Sc  Co.  3         51 

J        > 

,— CATALOGUE,  op  THE  CHINESE  LIBRARY  OF  THE  ROYAL 
ASIATIC  SOCIETY.  By  the  Rev.  S.  Kidd.  fevo.  sewed,  pp.  58.  l.s. 

i 

Kidder, — A  TREATISE  ox  HOJIILETICS  ;  designed  to  Illustrate  the 
True  Theory  and  Practice  o$  Preaching  the  Gospel.  By  iJaniel  P.  Kidder,  D.D., 
Professor  in  the  Garratt  Biblical  Institute.  Crown  8vo.  cloth,  j^p.  495. 
18G455.  6s.  j 

King. — THE  PATRIOT.  3  A  Poem.  By  J.  .}iV.  King.  12mo.  sewed, 
^p.  56.  1853.  Is. 

King. — LESSONS  AND*  PRACTICAL  NOTES  ON>  STEAM,  THE  STEAM 
ENGINE,  PROP>,LM:RS,  etc.,  etc.,  for  young  Engineers,  Students,  and  others.  By 
the  late  W.  H.  ^iiig,  U.S.N.  Eovised  by  Chief-Engineer  J.  W.  King,  U.S.N. 
Ninth  Edition.  Enlarged.  8vo.  cloth,' pp.  229.  1865.  9s. 

KingsfonL — AN    ESSS'AY   ON   THE    ADMISSION    OF   WOMEN    TO    THE 
1      PARLIAMENTARY   FRANCHISE.       By    Ninon   Kingsford.      8vo'   sewed,  pp.    40. 
1863.     Is. 

>  i 

Knight,— THE  INDIAN*  EMPIRE  AND  OUR  FINANCIAL  EELATIONS 
THEREWITH.  A  Pr/p'er  read  before  the  London  Indian  Society,  May  25,  1866. 
By  Robert  Knight  ("  Times0of  India").  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  42.  1866.  Is. 

Knight. — LETTER  TO  TIE  RIGHT  HON.  SIR  STAFFORD  NORTHCOTE, 
Baronet,  Her  Majesty's  Secretary  of  State  for  India,  upon  the  present  condition 
of  Bombay,  with  suggestions  for  its  relief.  By  Robert  Knight,  "  Times  of 
India."  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  24.  1867.  Is. 

Kohl,— TRAVELS   IN   CANADA  AND  THROUGH   THE   STATES   OF   NEW 

TJ     •  ed  b  PENNSYLVANIA.     By  I.  J.  Kohl.     Translated  by  Mrs.  Percy  Sinnett. 

y  the  Author.     Two  vols.,  post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xiv.  and  794.  1831.  21*. 

Kortlim. — THE  JOBSIAD  ;  a  grotesco-comico-heroic  Poem.  From 
the  German  of  Dr.  Carl  Arnold  Kortum.  By  Charles  T.  Brooks,  Translator  of 
"  Faust,"  "  Titan,"  etc.,  etc.  Crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xviii.  and  182.  1863.  5s. 

KoSSllth. — SPEECHES  OF  Louis  KOSSUTH  IN  AMERICA.  Edited,  with 
his  sanction,  by  F.  W.  Newman.  Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  388.  1853.  5s. 

Kossutll. — SHEFFIELD  AM)  NOTTINGHAM  EVENING  SPEECHES.  Edited 
by  himself.  1854.  2d. 

Kossilth, — GLASGOW  SPEECHES.     Edited  by  himself.     2d. 

'Krapf. — TRAVELS,  RESEARCHES,  AND  MISSIONARY  LABOURS,  during 
an  Eighteen  Years'  Residence  on  the  Eastern  Coast  of  Africa.  By  the  Rev.  Dr. 
J.  Lewis  Krapf,  late  Missionary  in  the  service  of  the  Church  Missionary  Society 
Jii  Eastern  and  Equatorial  Africa  ;  to  which  is  prefixed  a  concise  Account  of 
Geographical  Discovery  in  Eastern  Africa,  up  to  the  present  time,  by  J.  E.  Raven- 
stein,  F.R.G.S.  In  demy  8vo.,  with  a  Portrait,  two  Maps,  and  .twelve  Plates. 
Cloth,  pp.  li.  and  566.  1866.  £1  Is.  ,  • 

Kiihner. — AN  ELEMENTARY  GRAMMAR  OF  THE  GREEK  LANGUAGE. 
By  Raphael  Kiihner.  t  Translated  «Jy  ^janmel  H.  Taylor.  One  vol.  T\v*entieth 
Edition.  8vo.  half-Ubund,  pp!  xii.  and  355.  1865.  6s. 

Kiihner.— GRAMMAR  OF  THE  GREEK  LANGUAGE  for  the  use  of  High 

Schools  and  Colleges.  Translated  from  the  German  by  B.  B.  Edwards  and 
S.  II.  Taylor.  By  Raphael  liiihner.  Fourth'iEciition.  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  xvi.  and 
620.  1862.  10.v'.  6rf.  . 


52  Publications  of  Triibner  fy  Co. 

Kiistel. — NEVADA  AND  CALIFORNIA  PROCESSES  OF  SILVER  AND  G-OLDJ 
EXTRACTION  FOU  GENERAL  USE,  i*nd  especially  for  me  Mining  Public  of 
California  and  Nevada,  with  full  explanations  and  directionsWor  all  Metallurgical  • 
Operations  connected  with  Silver  and  Gold,  from  a  preliminary  examination  of 
the  ore  to  the  final  casting  of  the  ingot,  Alsc  a  description  of  the  General 
MetsJJurgy  of  Silver  Ores.  By  Guido  Kiistel,  Mining  Engineer  and  Metallurgist. 
Illustrated  by  accurate  engravings.  8vo.  cloth,  pp,.,  328?  1868.  14*. 

Lady   Nurses  FOR   THE  SICK  POOR  IN  OTJR  ,  LONDON  WORKHOUSES. 

.Report  of  Proceedings  at  the  Strand  Union  Board  of  Guardians,  September' '4, 
1866.  From  the  Shorthand  Notes  of  Mr.  John  White.  With  an  Appendix. 
8vo.  sewed,  pp.  15.  1866.  Gd.  <"' 

f?  t         ' 

Laghll  Kaumudi. — A  SANSKRIT  GRAMMAR.  By  Var'adar&ja.  "With 
an  English  Version,  Commentary  and  References.  B(y  James  R.  BsUantyne, 
LL.D.,  Principal  of  the  Sanskrit  College,  Benares.  8  fo.  cloth,  pp.  xxxvj.  and 
424.  1867.  £1  11s.  Qd. 

Lange. — THE  UPPER  RHINE<J  Illustrating  its  finest  Cities,  Castles, 
Ruins,  and  Landscapes.  From  Drawings  by  Messrs.,  Rohbock,  Louis'and  •'  Julius 
Lange.  Engraved  by  the  most  distinquished  Artists.  ;With  a  History  and 
Topographical  Text.  Edited  by  Dr.  Gaspey.  8vo.,  pp.  494.  134  Plates. 
1859.  £2  2*.  ,u  c. 

Langford. — ENGLISH  DEMOCRACY  ;  'its  HistSry  and  Principles.  By 
John  Alfred  Langford.  Fcap.  8vo.,  stiff  cover.  Pp.  88.  1855.  Is.  Qd. 

Langford. — RELIGION  AND  EDUCATION  IN  RELATION  TO  THE  PEOPLE. 
By  John  Alfred  Langford.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  iv.  and  133.  1852.  2s. 

Langford, — RELIGIOUS  SCEPTICISM  AND  INFIDELITY;  their  History, 
Cause,  Cure,  and  Mission.  By  John  Alfred  Langford.  Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  iv. 
and  246.  1850.  2s.  Gel. 

Lathe  (THE)  AND  ITS  USES  ;  or,  Instruction  in  the  Art  of  Turning 

Wood  and  Metal.  Including  a  description  of  the  most  modern  appliances  for  the 
ornamentation  of  plane  and  curved  surfaces.  With  an  Appendix,  in  which  is 
described  an  entirely  novej  form  of  lathe  for  eccentric  and  rose  engine  turning  ; 
a  lathe  and  planing  machine  combined  ;  and  other  valuable  matter  relating  to 
the  art.  Copiously  illustrated.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  290.  1868.  15s. 

Lawrence,  SIR  JOHN,  Gr.C.B.,  AND  THE  TALOOQDARS  OF  OUDH.  A 
series  of  articles  contributed  to  "  The  Press,"  showing  how  the  Viceroy  of  India 
proposes  to  undermine  and  destroy  the  proprietary  rights  of  the  landowners  of 
that  province.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  46.  1865.  6d. 

Layman's  Faith  (A). — DOCTRINES  AND  (LrruRGY.  By  a  Layman. 
12mo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  150.  1866.  2s.  Gd.' 

Lea, — AN  HISTORICAL  SKETCH  OF  SACERDOTAL  CELIBACY  IN  THE 
CHRISTIAN  CHURCH.  By  Henry  Carey  Lea.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  601.  1867.  15s. 

Lea. — SUPERSTITION  AND  FORCE.  Essays  on  the  Wager  of  Law — 
the  Wager  of  Battle— the  Ordeal— Torture.  By  Henry  C.  Lea.  ,  Svo.  cloth, 
pp.408.  1866.  10s.  6^ 

Le-Brun.— MATERIALS  FOR,, TRANSLATING  FROM  ENGLISH  INTO  FRENCH; 

being  a  short  Essay  on  Translation,  followed  by  a  Graduated  Selection  in  Prose 
and  Verso.  By  Le-Brun.  Cocr  nd  Edition.  Revised  and  corrected  by  Henri 
Van  Laun.  Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xii.  und  203.  1865.  4*. 


Publications  of  Triibner  fy  Co.  ,         53 

»  ,  j 

"Lees.     AN    INQUIRY   INTO    THE   REASONS    AND    RESULTS    OF    THE 
•    PRESCRIPTION    OF    INTOXICATING  LIQUORS   IN   THE  PRACTICE  OF  MEDICINE. — 
,      By  Dr.  F.  R.  Lecj,  F.S.A.     12mo.  cloth,  jjp.  iv.  and  144.     1866.     Is.  Id. 

Leeser. — THE  TWENTY-FOUR  BOOKS  OP  THE  HOLY  SCRIPTURES: 
carefully  Translated  according  to  the  Massoretic  Textf  after  the  best  Jewish 
Authorities.  By  Isaac  Leeser.  18mo.  bound,  pp.  xii.  and  1243.  1865^  7s.  6d. 

Leggfa! — THE  LIFE  AND'  TEACHINGS  OF  CONFUCIUS.     With  explana- 
tory Notes.     By  James  L,egge,  D.D.     Reproduced  for  General  Readers  from  the 
•"Author's  work,  containing  the  Original  Text.      Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  vi.  and  338. 

1867.     10a  6d.  t  t 

Legge.  —  THE  »CHINESE  GLASSIC^.  With  a  Translation,  Critical  and 
'Exegetical,  Ntwai  Prolegomena,  and  copious  Indexes.  By  James  Legge,  D.D., 
of  the  London  Missionary  Society.  I-a  seven  Vols. 

Vof.  1,  containing^onfucian  analects,  the  gieat  learning,  and  the  doctrine  of 
tne  mearf.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  526.  1861.  42s.  ;» 

Yol.i  2,  containing'  the  works  of  Menucius.     8vo.  cloth,  pp.  634.     1861.     42s. 

VoL  3,  part  1,  containing  the  first  parts  pf  the  'Shoo-King,  or  the  Books  of 
T'zjng,  the  Books  of  Yu  •  the  Books  of  Hea ;  the  Books  of  Shang,  and  the  Pro- 
legomena. 8vo.  clteh"',  pp.  291.  1865.  42*. 

Vol.  3,  part  2,  containing  the  fifth  part  of  the  Shoo-King,  or  the  Books  of 
Chow,  £nd  the  indexes.  8*yj.  cloth,  pp.  453.  1865.  42-s. 

Legge, — THE  CHINESE  CLASSICS  :  translated  into  English.  With 
Preliminary  Essays  and  Explanatory  Notes.  Popular  Edition.  Reproduced  for 
General  Readers  from  the  Author's  work,  containing  the  Original  Text.  By 
James  Letrge,  D,D.  Vol.  1 — The  Life  and  Teachings  of  Confucius.  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.  vi.  and  338.  1867.  10s.  6d. 

Leitner, — THE  RACES  AND  LANGUAGES  OF  DARDISTAN.  By  Gr. 
W.  Leitner,  M.A.,  Ph.  D.,  Honorary  Fellow  of  King's  College,  London,  etc. 
late  on  Special  Duty  in  Kashmir.  4  vols.  4to.  1868.  [In  the  press. 

Lesley. — MAN'S  ORIGIN  AND  DESTINY,  Sketched  from  the  Platform 
of  the  Sciences,  in  a  Course  of  Lectures  delivered  before  the  Lowell  Institute,  in 
Boston,  in  the  Winter  of  1865-6.  By  J.  P.  Lesley,  Member^of  the  National 
Academy  of  the  United  States,  Secretary  of  the  American  Philosophical  Society. 
Numerous  Woodcuts.  Crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  392.  •  1868.  10s.  Gd. 

CONTENTS. — Lecture  1.  Ori  the  Classification  of  the  Sciences;  2.  On  the  Genius  of  the 
Physical  Sciences,  Ancient  and  Modern ;  3.  The  Geological  Antiquity  of  Man  ;  4  On  the 
Dignity  of  Mankind ;  5.  On  the  Unity  of  Mankind  ;  6.  On  the  Early  Social  Life  of  Man  ;  7. 
O:i  Language  as  a  Test  of  Race ;  8.  The  Origin  of  Architecture  ;  9.  The  Growth  of  the 
Alphabet;  10.  The  Four  Types  of  Religious  Worship ;  11.  On  Arkite  Symbolism.  Appendix. 

Lessing. — NATHAN  THE  WISE.  A  Dramatic  Poem.  By  Gotthold 
Ephraim  Lessing.  Translated  from  the  German.  With  an  introduction  on 
Lessing  and  the  "  Nathan  ;"  its  antecedents,  character,  and  influence.  Crown 
8vo.  clqjth,  pp.'xxviii.  and  21$.  1868.  Ox. 

Lessing. — LETTERS  ON  BIBLIOLATRY.  By  Gotthold  Ephraim 
Lessing.  Translated  from  the  German  by  the  late  H.  H.  Bernard,  Ph.  Dr. 
8vo.  cloth,  pp.  184.  1862.  5s. 

Three  Generations  of  British  Reviewers  on  LESSING. 

"The  work  before  us  it*  as  genuine  sour-krout  as  ever  perfumed  a  feast  in  Westphalia."' — 
E<ltnbur<jltH<-f'i<  a',  April, JS06.  ,  ,) 

"As  a  poet,  as  a  crilic,  a  philosopher,  or  controversialist,  his  style  will  be  Sound  precisely 
such  as  we  of  England  are  accustomed  to  admire  -nost.  »Brief,  nervous,  vivid  ;  yet  quiet, 
without  glitter  or  antithesis;  idiomatic,  pure  without  purism;  transparent,  yet  full  of 
character  and  reflex  hues  of  meaning." — <Ediuij>ir'.ili  Ri-i-,\f,  October,  1827. 

-1'  The  first  foreigner  who  had  the  glory  of  proclaiming  Shakespeare  to  be  the  greatest 
dramatist  the  world  had  ever  »eeu,  was  Gotthok')  Ejuniim    Lessing." — Edinburgh    l: 
July,  1849.  , 


• » »        » 


54         ,  Publications  of  Tiubner  fy  Co. 

Lessing. — THE  LIFE  AND  WORKS  OF  G.  E.  LESSING.  From  tW 
German  .of  Adolph  Stahr.  By  t,E.  P.  Evans,  Ph.  Ik  2  vols.,  crown  8vo. 
cloth,  pp.  xvi.  and  383,  iv.  and  442(  1867.  25s.  c,  ^ 

Letter     TO     LORD    PALMERSTON,    CONCERNING    THE    QUESTION     or 
ScHLESWiG-HoLSTEiN.     8vo.  sowed,  pp.  32.     1850.,    Is. 
•>  f 

Letters  FROM  THE  ARCHBISHOP  OF  CANTERBURY,  THE  BISHOP  OF 
CAPETOWN,  AND  THE  BISHOP  of  NATAL.  With  some  Observations  on  the  Arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury's  reply  to  the  Bishop  of  Natal. '  8vo.  pp.  30.  1866.  ls>. 

Letter  TO  THE  EIGHT  HONORABLE  THJL  .EARL  OF 'DERBY  ON  POLITICAL 
HEFOKM.  By  one  of  the  People.  8vo.  sewed,  pp1.  46.  fi  1S6J7.  1*. 

Leverson, — THE  EEFORMER'S  REFORM  BILL.  Being  a  Proposed 
New  and  complete  Code  of '-Electoral  Law  for  tho/(Jnited  Kingdom.  .  By 
Montague  R.  L?verson.  Post  8vo.  sewed  pp.  36.  1866.  Is. 

Levy  (M.). — THE  HISTORY  OB  SHORTHAND  WRITING.  By  Matthias 
Levy.  To  which  is  appended  the  System  used  by  the  Author.  CroWn  8vo. 
cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  194.  1862.  5s. 

Lima. — SKETCHES  OF  THE  CAPITAL  OF  PFAU,  HISTORICAL,,  STATIS- 
TICAL, ADMINISTRATIVE,  COMMERCIAL,  AND  MOHAJ.,  By  Manuel  A.  Fuentes, 
Advocate.  With  numerous  Illustrations.  8vo.  half  bound,  pp.  ix.  and  224. 

1867.     21s. 

(j 

Little  Frencll  Reader  (TiiE). — Extracted  from  "  The1  Modern  French 
Eeader."  Crown  8vo.  cloth.  1868.  2s.  (See  p.  63.) 

Liturgy, — 'H  deia  \eirovpyia  TOV  ev  ayiois  Trarpo?  rjfJ-MV  'latavvov 

TOV  Xpi>aoffT6p,ov.  TlapatypaaSuffa  /card  TO  Kiifievov  TO  iicdoQiv  iyKpiafi  Trjs 
ifp&Q  iZvvoSov  TOV  J3affi\fiov  Ttjc  'EXXa^oc.  (The  divine  Liturgy  of  our  holy 
father  St.  Chrysostome,  paraphrased  according  to  the  text  published  with  the 
sanction  of  the  Holy  Synod  of  the  kingdom  of  Greece.)  12mo.  cloth,  gilt 
edges,  pp.  76.'  2s.  6d. 

Lobscheid, — ENGLISH  Ar,x>  CHINESE  DICTIONARY,  with  the  Punti 
and  Mandarin  Pronunciation.  By  the  Rev.  W.  Lobscheid,  Knight  of  Francis 
Joseph,  C.M.I.R.G.S.A.,  N.Z.B.S.V.,  etc.  Parts  I.  and  II.,  folio,  pp.  iv.  and 
1  to  980.  (Will  be  completed  in  Four  Parts).  1867.  Price,  each  part,  £1  16«. 

Log  Cabin  (Tns)  ;  OR,  THE  WORLD  BEFORE  You.  Post  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.  iv.  and  120.  1844.  2s.  6d. 

Longfellow, — FLOWER  DE  LUCE.  By  Henry  Wadsworth  Longfellow. 
With  Illustrations.  Small  4to.,  extra  cloth,  giK  edges,  pp.  72.  1867.  10s.  M. 

Longfellow. — EVANGELINE.  A  Tale  of  Acadie.  By  Henry  W. 
Longfellow.  With  Illustrations  by  F.  0.  C.  Darley.  Small  4to.  extra  cloth, 
gilt  edges,  pp.  157.  1867.  12s. 

Longfellow. — THE  POETICAL  WORKS  OF  HENRY  WADSWORTH  LONG- 
i--ELLoV.  ,  Revised  Edition.  4  vols.,  crCwn  8vo.  doth,  grl/-.  top,  pp.  31cS,  v.  283, 
v.  351,  372.  1866.  40s.  , 

Longfellow. — THE  PROSE  cWoRKS  OF  HENRY  WADSWORTH  LONG- 
FELLOW. Revised  Edition.  3  vols.  crown  Svo.,  gilt  top,  pp.  364,  391,  3o5. 
I860.  30s. 


Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co.  t       55 

Ay    INTRODUCTION    TO    PRACTICAL    ASTRONOMY,    with    a 
Collection  of  Astronomical  Tables.     By  Eliis  Loomis,  LL.D.     Seventh  Edition. 
,   8vo.  sheep,  pp.  xi.  r>nd  499.     1866.     10s.  64) 

Loomis. — A  TREATISE  ON  ASTRONOMY.  By  Ellas  Loomis,  Pro- 
fessor of  Natural  Philosophy  tod  Astronomy  in  Yale  College,  Author  of  "An 
Introduction  to  Practic/il  Astronomy,"  and  of  a  series  of  Mathematics  for  Schools 
and  Colleges.  8vo.  sheep,  '^p.  338.  With  eight  Plates.  1868.  10*.  6d. 

Lcygion. — THE  PASTOR^  OF  VLIETHUIZEN,>  or  Conversations  about 
the  Groningen  School,  the  Doctrine  of  the  Church,  the  Science  of  Theology,  and 
the  Bible.  By  E.  J.  L»iest  Lorgicn.  D.D.  Translated  from  the  Dutch.  Post 
4to.,  pp.  iv.  am^l2£.  1861.  >  7s.  6d. 

Lowe,—  SPEECH  '*F, THE  EIGHT  HON.  ROBERT  LOWE,  M.P.,  on  the 
IriSh  Tenant  Eight  Jill,  and  a  Letter  of  Lord  Oranmore's  to  the  Times.  8vo. 
seved,  pp.,  22.  1866.  »6rf.  "  „ 

'Lowell.— THE  VISION  OF  SIR  LAUNFAL.     By  James  Eussell  Lowell. 

With  Illustrations  by  S.  Eyti^ge,  jun.     Small  4to.  28  leaves,  printed  on  one 
side  only.     1867.     \Qs^  6£ 

Lowell, — THE  POETICAL  WORKS  OF  JAMES  E.  LOWELL.  Complete 
in  two ,  volumes.  Blue  uud  Gold  Series.  24mo.  cloth,  pp.  ix.  315,  322. 
With  Portrait.  1863.  10.^ 

Llldewig. — THE  LITERATURE  OF  AMERICAN  ABORIGINAL  LANGUAGES, 
with  Additions  and  Corrections  by  Professor  Win.  W.  Turner.  Edited  by 
Nicolas  Trubner.  t  8vo.  fly  and  general  Title,  2  leaves ;  Dr.  Ludewig's  Preface, 
pp.  v. — viii. ;  Editor's  Preface,  pp.  ix. — xii. ;  Biographical  Memoir  of  Dr.  Lude- 
wig, pp.  xiii.,  xiv. ;  and  Introductory  Bibliographical  Notices,  pp.  xv. — xxiv., 
followed  by  List  of  Contents.  Then  follow  Dr.  Ludewig's  Bibliotheca  Glottica, 
alphabetically  arranged,  with  Additions  by  the  Editor,  pp.  1 — 209  ;  Professor 
Turner's  Additions,  with  those  of  the  Editor  to  the  same,  also  alphabetically 
arranged,  pp.  210—246  ;  Index,  pp.  247—256  ;  and  list  of  Errata,  pp.  257,  258. 
By  Hermann  E.  Ludewig.  Svo.  cloth.  London.  '  1858.  10*.  6d. 

This  work  is  intended  to  supply  a  great  want,  now  that  the  study  of  Ethnology  has  proved 
that  exotic  languages  are  hot  mere  curiosities,  but  e-seutial  and  interesting  parts  of  the 
natural  history  of  man,  forming  one  of*  the  most  curious  lirks  in  the  great  chain  of  national 
affinities,  defining  as  they  do  the  reciprocity  existing  between  man  and  the  soil  he  lives  upon. 
No  one  c  in  venture  to  write  the  history  of  America  without  a  knowledge  of  her  aboriginal 
languages ;  and  unimportant  as  such  researches  may  seem  to  men  engaged  in  the  mere 
bustling  occupations  of  life,  they  will  at  least  acknowledge  that  these  records  of  the  past,  like 
the  stern-lights  of  a  departing  ship,  are  the  last  glimmers  of  savage  life,  as  it  becomes  absorbed 
or  rec«des  before  the  tido  of  civilizatiou.  Dr.  Ludesvig  and  Prof.  Taylor  have  made  most 
diligent  use  of  the  public  and  private  collections  in  America,  access  to  all  of  which  was  most 
•  liberally  granted  to  them.  This  has  placed  at  their  disposal  the  labours  of  the  American 
Missionaries,  so  little  known  on  this  side  of  the  Atlantic  that  they  may  be  looked  upon  almost 
in  the  light  of  untrodden  ground.  But  English  and  Continental  libraries  have  also  been 
ransacked  ;  ai*l  Dr.  Ludewig  kept  ui>  a  constant  and  active  correspondence  with  scholars  of 
"the  Fatherland,"  as  well  as  with  men  of  similar  tastes  and  pursuits  in  France,  Spain,  and 
Holland,  determined  to  leave  no  stone  unturned  to  render  his  labours  as  complete  as  possible. 
The  volume,  perfect  in  itself,  is  the  first  of  an  enlarged  edition  of  Vater's  '•  Linguanim  totius 
orbis  Index."  The  work  has  been  noticed  by  the  press  of  both  Continents,  and  we  may  be 
permitted  to  refer  particularly  to  the  following.  t  ( 

OPINIONS  OF  THE  PRESS. 

' '  This  work,  mainly  tb»  production  of  the  late  Herr  Lndewig,  a  German,  naturalized  in 
America,  il  devoted  to  au,^iecount  of  the  literature  of  the  aboriginal  languages  of  tha^,  country. 
It  gives  an  alphabetical  Met  of  the  various  tribes  of  whose  languages  any  reeordwemaius,  and 
relers  to  the  works,  papers,  or  manuscripts,  in  which  *uch  ^formation  may  be  found.  The 
work  has  evidently  been  a  labour  of  love  ;  and  as  no  pains  seem  to  have  been  spared  by  the 
editors,  Prof.  Turner  and  Mr.  Trubner,  in  rendering  tLy  work  as  accurate  and  complete  as 
possible,  those  who  are  most  interested  in  its  contents  wrfl  be  best  able  to  judge  of  the  labours 
and  assidu'ty  bestowed  upon  it  toy  author,  editors'^ind  publisher." — Athenxum.  5th  April. 
185S.  ,  » 


56       ,  Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co. 

"This  is  the  first  instalment  of  a  work  which  will  be  of  the  greatest  va'ue  to  philologists  ; 
and  is  a  compendium  of  the  aboriginal  languages  of  the  American^  continents,  and  a  digest  of 
all  the  known  literature  bearing  upon  thtse  languages.  Mr.  Trubner's  hand  lias  been  engaged 
passim,  and  in  his  preface  he  lays  claicd  to  about  one  sixth  of  thelrvliole;  and  we  have  n<; 
doubt  that  the  encouragement  wirh  which  this  portion  of  the  work  will  be  received  by 
scholars,  will  be  such  as  to  inspire  Mr.  Triibncr  with  sufficient  confidence  to  persevere  in  his 
arduous  and  most  honourable  task." — Tlie  Critic,  loth  Dec,  1857. 

"Few  would  believe  that  a  good  octavo  volume  would  be  necessary  to  exhaust  the  subject  ; 
yet  so  K  is,  and  this  h-iudsoiue.  useful,  and  curious  volume,  carefully  compiled  by  Mr.  Lude- 
wig.  assisted  by  Prof.  Turner,  and  ediied  by  the  careful  baitfl  of  Mr.  Trubner,  the  wal'l-known 
publisher,  will  be  sure  to  find  a  place  in  many  libraries." — Benfs  Adrertiser,  fith  Nov.,  18S7. 

"  The  lovers  of  American  1  nguisncs  will  find  in  the  work  »,''  .Mr.  Triibner  scarcely  any  point 
omitted  calculated  to  aid  the  comparative  philologer  in  tracing  the  various  languages  ot'  the 
great  Western  Continent.'1 — '<'.'•('  ''nil  Mercury,  8nth  J. in.,  18)8.  .  , 

"  Only  those  deeply  versed  -n  philological  studi «.,  /!an  appreciate  this  book  at  its  full  value. 
It  shows  that  there  are  upwards  of  seven  hundred  and  fifty  aboriginal  American  languages," 
— Gentleman's  Magazine,  rob.,  1818.  <-  •  ,' 

"  The  work  contains  an  account  of  no  fewer  than  seven  hundred  diffeisnt  aboriginal  dialects 
of  America,  with  an  introductory  chapter  of  "bibliographical  in'ormntion  ;  and  ujideiteach 
dialect  i*  an  account  of  any  gramrj.trs  or  other  works  illustrative  of  it."-%-7Vie  Bookseller, 
Jan.,  1858. 

"  U'e  have  here '.  the  list  of  monuments  still  existing,  of  an  aim  >st  innumerable  series  of 
languages  and  dialects  of  the  American  Continent  The  -rreater  part  of  Indian  graaini  ir->  an  1 
vocabularies  exist  only  in  MSI,  and  wfre  compiled  chiefly  by  Mission-tries  of  the  Christian 
Church  ;  and  to  Dr.  Ludewig  and  Mr.  Trubner,  we  are,  therefore,  the  more  indebted  for  tho 
great  care  with  which  they  have  pointed  out  where  su  :h  are' to -be  found,  as  well  as  for 
enumerating  those  which  have  been  printed,  either  in  a  sejiarite  shape,  in  collections,  or  in 
voyages  and  travels,  and  elsewhei-e." — Lender,  llth  Sept.,  18  8. 

"  I  have  not  time,  nor  is  it  my  purpose,  to  go  into  a  nv'view  of  this  admirable  work,  or  to 
attempt  to  indicate  the  extent  and  value  of  its  contends.  I£  is.  perhaps,  eu-iiigh  to  say,  that 
apart  from  a*  concise  but  clear  enumeration  and  notice  oi  the  various  general  phil 'logical 
works  which  treat  with  greater  or  less  fulness  of  American  languages,  or  which  incidentally 
touch  upon  their  bibliography,  it  contains  not  less  than  2o*i  closely-printed  octavo  pag^-s  of 
bibliographical  notices  of  grammars,  vocabularies,  etc.,  of  the1  aboriginal  languages  of  America. 
It  is  a  peculiar  and  valuable  feature  of  the  work  that  not  only  the  titles'6f  j'riuted  or  published 
grammars  or  vocabularies  are  given,  but  also  that  unpublished  or  MS.  works  of  these  kinds 
are  noticed,  in  all  cases  where  they  are  known  to  exist,  but  which  have  disappeared  among 
the  debris  oi  the  suppressed  convents  and  religious  establishments  of  Spanish  America"— 
E.  G.  Squier,  in  a  paper  read  before  the  American  Ethnological  Society,  12th  Jan.,  18o8. 

"  In  consequence  of  the  de-.th  of  the  author  before  he  hid  finished  the  revisal  of  the  work 
it  has  been  carefully  examined  by  competent  scholars,  who  have  also  made  many  valuable 
additions." — American  Publisher^  Circular,  30th  Jan.,  1858. 

"  It  contains  2f>6  closely-printed  pages  of  titles,  oi  printed  books  and  manuscripts,  and 
notices  of  American  aboriginal  languages,  and  embraces  references  to  nearly  all  that  has  been 
written  or  published  respecting  them,  whether  in  sp  cial  wnrkq  or  incidentally  in  b  loks  of 
travel,  periodicals,  or  proceedings  of  learned  societies/'— Stir  Y</rk  Herald,  2'ith  Jan.,  1858. 

"The  manner  in  which  this  contribution  to  the  bibliography  of  American  languages  has 
teen  executed,  both  by  the  author,  Mr.  Ludewig,  and  the  able  writers  who  have  ediied  the 
work  since  his  death,  is  spoken  of  in  the  highest  terms  by  gentlemen  most  conversant  with 
the  -ubj-ct." — American  Historical  Magatine,  Vol.  II.,  No  5.  May,  1858. 

"  Je  termiuerai  en  annoncaut  le  premier  volume  d'une  publication  appelde  a  rendre  de 
grands  services  a  la  philologie  compared  et  a  la  linsiuistique  ge'ne'rale.  Je  veux  parler  de  la 
Bibliotheca  Glottica,  ouvrage  devant  renfermer  la  liste  de  tons  les  dictionnaires  et  de  toutrs 
les  grammaires  dtS  laugues  counties,  taut  imprimis  que  manuscrits.  I  '6  liteur  de  cette  pre"- 
cieuse  bibliographic  est  M.  Nicolas  Triibner,  dont  le  uom  est  honorablemeut  conuu  dans  le 
monde  oriental.  Le  premier  volume  est  cousacre"  aux  idiomes  AineYicains  ;  le  second  doit 
traiter  des  langues  de  1'Inde.  Le  travail  est  fait  avec(  le  soiu  le  plus  consciencieux,  et  fera 
honneura  M.  Nicolas  Triibner,  surtout  s'il  poursuit  son  ce  ivre  avec  la  uieme  ardeur  qu'il 
a  mise  a  la  commencer." — L.  Leon  de  Rosny.  Revue  de  V Orient,  Feerier,  1858. 

"Mr.  Trubner's  most  important  work  on  the  bibliography  of  the  a'borigiual  languages  of 
America  is  deserving  of  all  praise,  as  eminently  useful  to  those  who  study  that  branch  of 
literature.  Thr  value,  too.  of  the  book,  and  of  the  pains  which  its  compilation  must  have 
cost,  will  not  be  lessened  by  the  consideration  that  it  is  tirst  in  this  field  of  linguistic  litera- 
ture."— J'r/ei-mdiin's  QeograpMsche  Mitthettungen.  p.  79,  Feb.,  1858.  t., 

'•Undoubtedly  this  volume  of  TrUbner's  I?;blio"thecafGlottiea  ,,ranks  amnngss  the  most 
valuable  additions  which  of  late  years  have  enriched  our  bibliographical  literature.  To  us 
Germans  it  is  most  gratifying,  that  th3  initiative  has  been  taken  by  a  German  bookseller.him- 
self  one  of  the  most  intelligent  and  act-ve  of  our  countrymen  abroad,  to  produce  a  work 
which  has  higher  aims  than  mere  J^cuniary  profit,  and  that  he,  too,  has  laboured  at  its  pro- 
duction with  his  own  hands ;  because  daily  it  is  becoming  a  circumstance  of  rarer  occurrence 
that,  as  in  this  case,  it  is  a  booksclUr'sf  >rimary  object  to  «3rve  the  cause  of  literature  rather 
than  to  enrich  himself-  —  /'.  Tromel,  Biirseitlila,1!,  4th  Jan.,  1858. 


Publications  of  Trilbner  fy  Co. 


of  a  g.iod  Index."— £>;i-lincr  tfatifmal-Zeitvng 


ki 

time  cms  worK  win   rjo  one  i/i  sianuaru.  autuoni,y,  auu 
of  the  prfeent  timu."—I\'t;/io/tlt's'nnzei(jer,  Jan.,  1858. 


rminated  the  work  carefully  and 


the  general  ti*l  •.  pf  the  boo'*  indicates,  it  will  be  extended  to  the  languages  of  the 
Otber^jontineuts,  in  casj  it  meets  with  a  favourable  reception,  which  we  most  cordially  wish 
it."--  .-I .  /'.  J'ott,  PreussischetffLhriklter,  Vol.  II.,  part  1.  j 

"  Celte  compilation  savante  est,  saus  conti:edit,  le  travail'bib'iographique  le  plus  important 
'  que  in'tre  epoque  ait  vu  Surgir  sur  les  uauuiis  indigenes  de  I'AmeYique. — JVoucel/es  A/males 
ill'.*  Voifttgcx,  Avril,  1859.  *  j 

commence'  la  publication,  est  un  des 


oiah\ea." -fievite  Amerifaitiett  Orientals,  No.  l,Oct.,  1858. 


ent  tacts  m  the  literature  ot   its  subject,  it,  as  might  nave  been  expected,  greatly 
July's  '  Vater,',  valuable  and  trustworthy  though  that  learned  German's  work  uu- 

T   ia    *' V,u.//t     /^..i'/;.>7i     ftnnHrlit*      TVTrv      fiQ      FtiK         1  ii  "lQ 


The  Editor  has  also  received  most  kind  and  encouraging  letters  respecting  the  work  from 
Sir  George  Grey,  the  Chevalier  Uirison,  Dr.  Th.  Goldstiicker,  Mr.  Watts  (of  the  Museum), 
Professor  A.  Fr.  Pott  (of  H-*lle),  Dr.  Julius  Putzholt  (of  Dresden),  Hofrath  Dr.  Grasse  (of 
Dresden),  M.  F.  F.  de  la  Figanie're  (of  Lisbon),  E.  Edwards  (of  Manchester),  Dr.  Max  MiiUer 
(of  Oxford),  Dr.  Buschmaun  (of  Berlin),  Dr.  Jtilg  (of  Cracow),  and  other  linguistic  scholars. 

'Luvini. — TABLES  OF  LOGARITHMS  with  Seven  Places  of  Decimals. 
By  John  L<vini.     Crown  8vo,  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  368.     1866.     5s. 

Lyman. — COTTON  ^CULTURE.    By  Joseph  B.  Lyman,  late  of  Louisiana. 

With  an  additional  chapter  on  Cotton  Seed,  and  its  Uses.  By  J.  E.  Syphcr. 
Cloth,  pp.  VII.  and  190.  6*. 

Lysons,  —  OUR    VULGAR   TONGUE.        A    Lecture   on  Language   in 

general,  with  a  few  'Vords  on  Gloucestershire  in  particular.  Delivered  before 
the  LitSrary  and  Scientific  ^esociatioi?  at  Gloucester,  January  17th,  1868,  with 
Appendix  containing  tables  of.  the  world-wide  affyiity  of  Languages.  By  the 
Ilev.  Samuel  Lysons,  M.A.,  F.S.A-.  Hon,  Canon  of  Gloucester  Cathedral,  and 
Rector  of  Rodmarton,  Author  6f  "  Our  Br'ftsh  Ancestors,"  "  The  Model 
Merchant  of  the  Middle  Aggs,"  etc.,  etc.  8vo.  |tiff  cover,  pp.  51  and  62.  1868. 
2*.  M.  "  '  • 


58        <  Publications  of  Triibner  fy  Co. 

Maccall,  W, — NATIONAL  MISSIQNS.  A  Series  of  Lectures.  8vo.  pp/ 
viii.  and  382.  1855.  10s.  6d.  h 

Maccall, — SACRAMENTAL    SERVICES.     12mo.  sewed,  pp.  20.     1847v' 

Gd.  ,._ 

Macca^,, — THE  AGENTS    OF  CIVILIZATION.      "A   Series  of  Lectures. 

12mo.' cloth,  pp.  126.     1843.     Is.  6d.  t  w 

Maccall. — THE  DOCTRINE  QF  INDIVIDUALITY.  (  A  Discourse  delivered 
at  Crediton,  on  the  28th  of  May,  1843.  12mo.  sewed,  pp.  22.  1843.  6d.  '' 

Maccall. — THE  EDUCATION  OF  TASTE:  VA  Series  of  Lectures.  12mo. 
sewed,  pp.  104.  1846.  Is.  <•  (  ' 

Maccall. — THE  ELEMENTS  OF  INDIVIDUALISM.  A  Series  of  Lectures. 
8vo.  cloth,  pp.  358.  1847.  Is.  6d.  r«i 

Maccall. — THE7  INDIVIDUALITY  OF '-'THE  INDIVIDUAL.  A  Lecture 
delivered  at  Exeter  on  the  29th  March,  1844,  before  the  Literary  Society.  'I2mo. 
sewed,  pp.40.  1844.  Qd. 

Maccall. — THE  LESSONS  OF  THE  PESTILENCE.  A  Discourse  delivered 
at  Royston,  on  the  23rd  September,  1849.  12mo.,  sewed,  pp.  22.  1849.  Qd. 

Maccall. — THE  UNCHRISTIAN  NATURE  OF  COMMERCIAL  EESTRICTIONS. 
A  Discourse  delivered  at  Bolton,  on  Sunday,  the  27th  September,  1840.  12mo. 
sewed,  pp.  14.  1840.  3d. 

Macfarlane, — A  LETTER  TO  OUR  GRANDCHILDREN1.  By  William 
Macfarlane,  Esq.,  Brighton,  Author  of  "  A  Letter  to  the  Bishqp  of  Xatal."  8vo. 
sewed,  pp.  15.  1862.  Id. 

Macfarlane. — A  LETTER  TO  THE  PLIGHT  REVEREND  DR.  COLENSO, 
Bishop  of  Xatal,  remonstrating  against  his  leaving  the  Church  of  England.  By 
William  Macfarlane,  Esq.,  Brighton.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  8.  1862.  Id. 

Macfarlane.—t-A  PRACTICAL  LETTER  to  the  Citizens  of  the  World 
on  the  Civil  "Wars  among  the  Bishops  and  Clergy.  By  "William  Macfarlane,  Esq., 
Brighton,  Author  of  "  A  'Letter  to  our  Grandchildren,"  and  "  A  Letter  to  the 
Bishop  of  Natal."  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  18.  1863.  3d. 

Mackellar.  —  THE  AMERICAN  PRINTER.     A  Manual  of 'Typography, 

containing  complete  instructions  for  beginners,  as  well  as  practical  directions 
for  managing  all  departments  of  a  Printing  Office.  With  several  useful  tables, 
schemes  for  imposing  forms  in  every  variety,  hints  to  Authors  and  Publishers, 
etc.,  etc.  By  Thomas  Mackellar.  Crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  336.  1867.  9s. 

Mackenzie, — CONDENSED  TEMPERANCE  PACTS  FOR  CHRISTIANS.  With 
remarks  on  ancient  and  modern  wines  and  malt  liquors.  By  J.  Mackenzie, 
M.D.,  Justice  of  the  Peace,  Provost  of  Inverness.  12mo.  sewed,  pp.  40. 
1868.  3d. 

Madeira. — A  BRIEF  LETTER  OF  ADVICE  TO  AN  INVALID,  in  reply  to  a 
request  for  information  about  Madeira  as  a  winter  residence.  By  an  ex-invalid. 
8vo.  ?ewed,  pp.  8.  1859.  6d.  f .  <»  f  , 

M'Caill. — JERUSALEM  :  its  Bishop,  its  Missionaries,  and  its  Converts; 
being  a  Series  of  Letters  addressed  fo  the  Editor  of  the  "  Daily  Isews"  in  the 
Year  1858,  by  the  Fate  Rev. -Alexander  M*Uaul,  D.D.,  with  other  Letters,  r.tc., 
illustrative  thereof.  Collected  find  Edited  by  hit*  Son,  Samuel  M'Caul,  B.C.L., 
of  St.  John's  College,  Oxford,  etc.  f\o.  sewed,  pp.  80.  1866.  Is.  Gd. 


Publications  of  Trubner  $$  Co.  j       59 

JilcCulloah,  —  A  TREATISE  on  the  Circumstances  which  determine  the 
Hate   of  Wages    and'the    Condition    of   |he   Labouring    Classes.     By  J.  R. 
,  McCulloch,  Esq.     *2mo.  cloth,  pp.  x.  and  lJ4.     1868.      Is. 

McPherson,  —  THE  POLITICAL  '  HISTORY    OF    THE  UNITED  STATES  or 
•  •  AMERICA  during  the  Great*  Rebellion,  from  November  6,  I860,  to  July  4,^1864  ; 

with  Jjjunimary  of  the'  Legislation  thereon,  and  the  Executive,  Judicial,  and 

Politico-Military  Facts  ;  together  with  an  Account  of  the  Rebel  Administration. 

By  Edward  Mcl'herson,  (A  Gettysburg,   Pennsylvania,  Clerk  of  the  House  of 

Representatives.     Royal  Svo.,  bound.     1864.     18s.   . 

Mahan.  —  AN    ELEMENTARY    COURSE    or    MILITARY    ENGINEERING. 

Part  I.  Comprising  Field  Fortifications,  Military  Mining  and  Siege  Operations. 
By  D.  II.  Mahan,  LL.D.,  Professor  of  'Military  and  Civil  Engineering  in  the 
U.  S.  Military  Academy  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  xxx.  and  284.  1865.  16s. 

,    "  The  best  treatise  on  its  subject  we  know  —  iticid,  accurate,  full,  and  yet  coi.cise.  .it  is  the  book 
by  which  inCfet  can  be  learned  about  the  art  of^war."  —  United  States  Service  Magazine- 

1  ,1  » 

.  Mahan».  —  AN  ELEMEN.TARY  TREATISE  ON  MILITARY  ENGINEERING 
Part  II.  \Permanent  fortifications.  By  D.  H.  Mahan,  LL.D.  With  Plates.  Svo. 
cloth,  pp.  176.  25s. 

Mahan,  —  SUMMARY  OF  TJJE  COURSE  OF  PERMANENT  FORTIFICATIONS, 
and  of  the  Attack  and  Defence  of  Permanent  Works.  For  the  Use  of  the  Cadets 
of  the  United  States  Military  Academy.  By  D.  H.  Mahan,  Professor  of  Military 
Engineering,  at  the  United  States  Military  Academy.  2  vols.  4to.  with  folio 
Plates.  Lithographed  at  the  United  btates  Military  Academy  Press.  25s. 


.  —  AN  ELEMENTARY  COURSE  OF  CIVIL  ENGINEERING  for 
the  use  of  Cadets  of  the  United  States  Military  Academy.  By  D.  H.  Mahan, 
M.A.  New  Edition,  with  large  Addenda,  and  many  new  Cuts.  .  Svo.  cloth,  pp. 
410.  ISs. 

Maharajahs.  —  HISTORY  OF  THE  SECT  OF  MAHARAJAHSJ  or,  Yalla- 
bhacharyas  in  Western  India.  With  a  Steel  Plate.  1  vol.  Svo.  cloth,  pp. 
xv.  and  183.  1865.  12s.  ' 

Malleson.  —  ESSAYS  AND  LECTURES  ON  INDIAN  HISTORICAL  SUBJECTS. 
I.  A  Native  State  and  its  Rulers.  —  II.  Lord  Lake  of  Laswarrie.  —  III.  Count 
Lallay.—  IV.  Havelock.-  V.  Hyder  Ali's  Last  War.—  VI.  Sir  Hugh  Rose. 
By  Major  G.  B.  Malleson,  Bengal  Staff  Corps.  Crown  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  360. 

-    1868.     6s. 

* 

Manava-Kalpa-Slltra.  —  Bein^  a  portion  of  this  ancient  "Work  on 
Vaidik  Rites,  together  with  the  Commentary  of  Kumarila-Swamin.  A 
Facsimile  of  the  MS.  No.  17,  in  the  Library  of  Her  Majesty's  Home  Govern- 
ment for  India.  With  a  Preface  by  Theodor  Goldstiicker.  Oblong  folio,  pp. 
268  of  letter-press,  and  121  leaves  of  facsimiles.  CJoth.  1863.  £4  4s. 

Manipnlus  Yocahulor«m,  —  A  KHYMING  DICTIONARY  OF  THE  ENGLISH 

Languag'e.     By  Petejp  Levins  <(1570)      Edited,  with  an  Alphabetical  4Index,  by 
Henry  B.  Wheatley.     Svo.  cloth,  pp.  xvi.  and  3?0.     \867.     14s. 

Mann.  —  A  EEW  THOUGHTS  FOR  A*  Yot'fcG  MAN.  A  Lecture 
delivered  before  the  Boston  Mercantile  Library  Association,  on  its  29th  anniver- 
sary. By  Horace  Mann.  Second  Edition.  12mo.  sewed.,  56  pp.  1854.  6d. 


60      i.  Publications  of  Tnibner  &•  Co. 

j  j 

{  ,  i 

Mannheimer. — THE    STUDY    ,OF    G-ERMAN    SIMPLIFIED    in    a    New 

S3'stematic  and  Practical  Gramrnl  r,  according  to  the   Systems  of  Ollendorff  and 
Dr.  Ahn.     By  H.    Mannheimer.        Third    Edition,    carefully  revised,    greatly 
enlarged,  and  improved.     Post  8vo.,  stiff  covers,  pp.  270.     1864.     4s.  6d. 
Ditto.     Ditto,    biey  to.     Is. 

Manning1. — INQUIRY    INTO    THE    CHARACTER    AND    ORIGIN    OF   THE 
POSSESSIVE,    AVGMEXT,    IN    ENGLISH    AND    COGNATE    DIALECTS.     By    James 
Wanning,  Q.A.S.,  Recorden-of  Oxford.  Reprinted  i'  om  the  "  Transactions  of^the  ( 
Philological  Society,"  with  an  Appendix  and  Index.     1  vol.  crown  8 vo.,  sewed. 
Pp.  ii.  and  90.     1864.   "2*.  ,  l 

(?    '  , 

Manning. — THOUGHTS  UPON  SUBJECTS  cfojontOTEfi  .-.WITH  PARLIA- 
MENTARY REFORM.  By  James  Manning,  Her  MajestyU  "Ancient  Serjeant-at- 
Law.  8vo.,  sewed.  Pp.  20.  1866.  'is.  „  ' 

Manual  OF  PUNCTUATION  (A),   fon  Self-teaching   and  for  Schools. 

By  a  Practical  Printer.     12mo.  pp.  40,  Ijmp  cloth.     1859.    Is. 
r  , 

Maritime  CAPTURE. — Shall  England  uphold,  the  Capture  of  Pri-. 
vate  Property  at  Sea?  By  a  Lawyer.  Post  Svo.  sewe\4  Pp.  40.  >S66.  Is.. 

Markham. — QUICHUA  GRAMMAR  AND   DICTIONARY.      Contributions 

towards  a  Grammar  and  Dictionary  of  Quichua,  the  Language  of  the  Yncas  of 
Peru;  collected  hy  Clements  R.  Markham,  F.S.A.,  Corr.  Mem.  of  the  University 
of  Chili,  Author  of  "  Cuzco  and  Lima,"  and  "  Travels  in  Peru  and  India."  In 
one  vol.,  crown  8vo.,  pp.  150,  cloth.  1864.  IQs.^od.  t 

Marmontel. — BELISAIRE.  Par  Marmontel.  Nouvell^  edition,  revue 
et  corrigee  par  Ernest  Brette,  Chas.  Cassal,  Theod  Karker.  12mo.  cloth,  pp. 
xii.  123.  1867.  2*.  6rf. 

Martin. — THE  AGE  OF  Louis  XIV.  By  Henri  Martin.  Trans- 
lated from  the  Fourth  Paris  Edition,  with  the  author's  sanction  and  co-operation. 
By  Mary  L.  Booth.  2  vols.  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  xxii.  and  563 ;  viii.  and  543. 
1865.  £1  "16s. 

Martineail. — LETTERS  «FROM  IRELAND.  By  Harriet  Martineau. 
Reprinted  from  the  "Daily  News."  Post  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  220. 
1852.  6s.  Gd. 

Martineail. — A  HISTORY  OF  THE  AMERICAN  COMPROMISES.  Re- 
printed (with  additions)  from  the  "  Daily  News."  By  Harriet  Martineau.  Svo. 
pp.  35.  1856.  Is. 

Martineau. — ESSAYS,  PHILOSOPHICAL  AND  THEOLOGICAL.  By  James 
Martineau.  Crown  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  iv.  and  43<1..  1866.  10s.  6d. 

Marx. — THE  SERF  AND  THE  COSSACK.  A  Sketch  of  the  Condition 
of  the  Russian  People.  By  Francis  Marx.  Second  Edition,  enlarged.  12mo. 
sewed,  pp.  60.  1865.  U  „ 

Mason. — BURMAH  :  ITS  PEOPLE  AND  NATURAI  PRODUCTIONS  ;  or, 
Notes  on  the  Nations,  Faivna,  Flora,  and  Minerals  oi  Tenasserim"  Pegu,  and 
Burman  ;  with  systematic  Catalogues  of  the  known  Mammals,  Birds,  Fish, 
Reptiles,  Insects,  Molluscs,  Crustaceans,  Annalids,  Radiates,  Plants,  and 
Minerals,  with  Yemaculait .'.Names'.  By*  Rev.  F.  Mason,  D.D.,  M.R.A.S., Cor- 
responding Member  of  the  American  Oriental  Society,  etc.,  etc.  Second  Edition, 
Svo.  cloth,  pp  xrl  an!  913?  ^860.  (  30s. 


Publications  of  Trubner  §  Co.  »       61 

Massey,  Gerald, — HAVELOCK'S  MARCH/  and  other  Poems.  12mo. 
cloth,  pp.  vii.  and  269.  1861.  5s. 

Matlllira. — A    TRILINGUAL    DICTIONARY,    being    a    comprehensive 

Lexicon  in  English,  Urdu,  and  Hindi,  exhibiting  the  Syllabication,  Proiiuncia- 

,   tion,  and  Etymology  of  English  Words,  with  their  Explanation  in  English,  and 

in  Urdu   and   Hindi   rn   the   Roman  Character.     By  Matlmra  Prasada  *Misra, 

Secorifl.  Master,  Queen's  College,  Benares.      8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xiv.  and  1330.  1865. 

£2  2,, 

Matthay. — T^EUTSCHE  LITERATUR  UND  LESE-J3ucn.  German  Lite- 
rature and  Reader.  By  T.  Mattiay,  M.R.C.P.,  P'jofejssor  to  the  Wimbledon 
College,  Claphafo  Grammar  School,  and  other  Military  and  Ladies'  Colleges,  etc. 
Post  8vo.,  clbth/.yp.  viii.  and  575.  1866.  7s.  6d. 

Matthew, — SCHLESWJG-HOLSTEIN.  '  By  Patrick  Matthew.  8vo. 
se\red,  pp«62.  1864. '"is.  '» 

'  <••  &  9 

Mayer-  PAPYRI,  and  the  Palimpsest  Manuscripts  of  Uranius  belong- 
ing* to  M.  Simonides,  Re-port  of»  the  Council  *f  the  Royal  Society  of  Literature, 
with'letters  from  M»essfS.»Pertz,  Ehrenberg,  and  Dindorf.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  30. 
1863.  Us. 

Mayne,— THE  LOST  FRSEND.  A  Crimean  Memory.  And  other 
Poems.  By  Colbourn  MafTne,  Esq.  12mo.,  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  134.  1857. 
3s.  Gd. 

Mazzini, — AN    ADDRESS    TO    POPE    PITTS    IX.,    on    his  Encyclical 

Letter.     By  Josejth  Mazzini.     8vo.,  sewed,  pp.  24.     4th  Edition.     1865.     6d. 

Medhurst, — CHINESE  DIALOGUES,  QUESTIONS,  AND  FAMILIAR  SEN- 
TENCES, literally  rendered  into  English,  with  a  view  to  promote  commercial 
intercourse,  and  assist  beginners  in  the  Language.  By  the  late  W.  H. 
Mcdhurst,  D.D.  A  new  and  enlarged  edition.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  225.  1863.  18s. 

Meditations  ON  LIFE  AND  ITS  RELIGIOUS  DUTIES.     Translated  from 
the  German  by  Frederica   Rowan.     Dedicated    to  H.R.H.    Princess  Louis  of 
Hesse.     Published  by   Her  Majesty's  gracious  permission.      B*eing  the   Com- 
panion Volume  to  "  Meditations  on  Death  and  Eternity."     8vo.  cloth,  pp. 
1863.     10s.  6d. 
Ditto.  Smaller  Edition,  crown  8vo.,  printed  on  toned  paper,  pp.  338.  1863.  6s. 

Meditations  ON  DEATH  AND  ETERNITY.  Translated  from  the  Ger- 
man by  Frederica  Rowan.  Published  by  Her  Majesty's  gracious  permission. 
8vo.  cloth,  pp.  386.  1862.  10s.  6d. 

Ditto.     |Jmaller  Edition,    crown  8vo.  cloth,  printed    on  toned  paper,  pp.  352. 
1863.     6s. 

Mellet. — SUNDAY-  AND  THE*  SABBATH.  Translated  from  the  French 
of  Louis  Victor  Mellet,  Pastor  of  Yvorne.  12mo.,  sewed,  pp.  viii.  106.  1856.  Is. 

Menke,   Dr,  T. — ORBIS  ANTIQUI  DESCRIPTIO  :     an  Atlas  illustrating 

Ancient  History  and  Geography,  for  the"  Use  of  Schools;  containing  18  Maps 
engraved  on  Steel  a$id  Coloured,  with  Descriptive  Letter-press.  4th  edition. 
Folio,  &alf-bound  inprocco.  1866?  5^'.  t 

Mercer. — MOUNT  CARMEL  :  A  Poem.  By  Edward  Smitn  Mercer. 
12mo.  sewed,  pp.  80.  1867.  Is.  ^  » 

Me'rimee, — COLOMBA.  Par  Prosper  Merimee,  de  1'Academie  Fran- 
(,'aisc.  12md.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  210.  ,,1867  3*s.  Gel.  «> 


62       t  Publications  of  Triibner  fy  Co. 

Mertens, — HTTIT  JOURS  A  ^JONDRES,  Guide  vdu  touriste  et  du 
voyageur.  Par  Constant  Mertenli.  Small  4to.  sewed,  pp.  82.  1867.  3s. 

V'l  I 

Michael, — THE  SOCIAL  G-OSPEL.  By  E. '  J.  Michael.  First  English 
Edition.  To  be  coitinued  by  "  The  Social  Code,  "  Crown  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  294. 
1867.  2*.  Qd. 

Michselis,  — A  NEW  SYSTEM  OF  STENOGRAI  HY  OR  SHORT-IIA'^D,  on 
the  Principles  of  "W.  Stolze.,,  By  Dr.  Gastav  Michfelis.  With  32  lithographic 
plates.  12mo.  stiff  covers,  pp.  viii.  and  135.  1864.  3s. 

Michselis. — THE  LITTIE  TIRO. — A  Practical  Compendium  of  English 
Shorthand.  By  Gustav  Michaelis.  With  Sixteen  Lj-thogj  apiiic  Plates.  12ruo. 
stiff  covers,  pp.  28.  1864.  Is. 

Michel, — LES  ECOSSAIS  EN  FRANCE,  LES  FRAN^AIS  EX  ECOSSE.,  Par 
Francisque  Mjchel,  Corresp1'ondant  de  VInstitut  de  France,  etc.  Handsomely 
bound  in  two  Volumes,  8vo.,  in  rich  blue^loth,  with  emblematical  designo.  Pp. 
vii.  547  and  551,  with  upwards  of  100  Coats,  of  Arms,  and  other  Illustrations. 
Price  £1  12s. — Also  a  Large  Paper  Edition  (limited*  to  100  Copies),  prifited  on 
Thick  Paper.  Two  Volumes,  4to.,  half  morocco,  with1  .three  additional  Steel 
Engravings.  1862.  £3  3s. 

Michelena  .y  Hojas. — EXPLORACION  OFICIA^  por  la  primera  vez 
desde  el  Xorte  de  la  America  del  Sur  siempre  por  Rios,  entrando  por  las  Bocas 
del  Orin6co,  de  los  Valles  de  este  mismo  y  del  meta,  casiquiare,  Rio-Negro  6 
Guaynia  y  Amazonas,  hasta  nauta  en  el  alto  Marafem  6  Amazonas,  arriba  de  las 
Bocas  del  Ucayali  bajada  del  Amazonas  Hasta  el  Atlantico.  Comprendiendo  en 
ese  imnenso  espacio  los  Estados  de  Venezuela,  Guayana  Inglesar  Nueva-Granada, 
Brasil,  Ecuador,  Peru  y  Bolivia.  Viaje  a  Rio  de  Janeiro  desde  belen  en  el  Gran 
Para,  por  el  Atlantico,  tocando  en  las  Capitales  de  las  principales  provincial  del 
Imperio  en  los  afios,  de  1855  hasta  1859.  Por  F.  Michelena  y  Rojas,  Viajero  al 
Rededor  del  Mundo,  Miembro  de  la  Real  Sociedad  Economica  Matritense  y  ,de  la 
Real  Academia  de  Arqueologia  y  de  Geogratia  de  la  Misma.  Publicado  bajo  los 
Auspicios  del  Gobierno  de  los  Estados  Unidosdo  Venezuela.  Royal  8vo.  With 
Map.  Sewe'cl,  pp.  684.  1867.  18s. 

Miles. — THE  SOCIAL,  POLITICAL  AXD  COMJIERCIAL  ADVANTAGES 
of  Direct  Steam  Communication  and  Rapid  Postal  Intercourse  between  Europe 
and  America,  via  Galway,  Ireland.  By  Pliny  Miles.  Illustrated  by  a  Map. 
8vo.  sewed,  pp.  122.  1859.  Is. 

Mil. — THE  ENFRANCHISEMENT  OF  WOMEN.  By  Mrs.  Stuart  Mill. 
(Reprinted  from  the  "  Westminster  Review.")  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  16.  1868.  Id. 

Mill. — AUGUSTE  COMTE  AND  POSITIVISM.  By  John  Stuart  Mill, 
Esq.,  M.P.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  200.  1866.  6s.  ' 

Mill. — SPEECH  of  John  Stuart  Mill,  Esq.,  M.P.,  on  the  Admission 
of  Women  to  the  Electoral  Franchise,  spoken  in  the  House  of  Commons, 
May  20th,  1867.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  18«.  1867.  Qd. 

Millhouse. — NEW  ENGLISH  AND  ITALIAN  PRONOI'-NCING  AND  EXPLA- 
NATOiii'  DICTIONARY.     By  John  Millhtfase.     Voi.  I.  Engjish-Italian. '  Vol.  II. 
Italian-English.     Two   vols.  square    Svo.  cloth.    3rd   edition,   with  Numerous 
Additions  and  Improvements.     Pp.  6,08  and  740.     1867.     12*. 
( ? 

Millhouse,  John. — MANUAL  OF  ITALIAN  QONVEKSATION.  For  the 
Use  of  Schools.  K3mo.  cloth/ppf.  126.,  1866.  2*. 


Publications  of  Trubner  §  Co.  t        63 

*Misceg3nation  :   THE    THEORY    OF  THE    BLENDING    OF   THE  EACES, 
applied  to  the  American  White  Mail  an$  Negro.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  92.     1864. 
f,^    2s.  6tl,  » 

Modern  FRENCH  READER  (The).  Edited  by  the  Rev.  P.  H.  Ernest 
Brette,  B.D.,  of  Christ's  *lfospital,  London;  Professor  Ch.  Cassal,  LL.D.,  of 
University  College,  Lc*idon,  and  T.heodor  Karcher,  LL.B.,  of  the  Royal  Military 
Academy,  Woolwich,  formfcr  and  present  Examiner  in  the  University  of  London, 
and  for  the  Civil  Service  gf  India.  Crown  8vo.  cj.oth.  1868.  2s.  6<£ 

the    Pro- 


Piione.tic  Philology,' by  Robert  Moffat,'  jun.,  Fellow  of  the  Royal  Geographical 
Society.    8vo.  cloth,  p-y.  xxviii.  and  174.     1864»      Is.  Qd. 

Molesworth, — A  DICTIONARY,  M'ARATHI  AND  ENGLIS*H.  Compiled 
bjr  J.  T.  Molesworth,  assisted  by.  GCorge  and  Thomas  Candy.  Second  Edition, 
revised  and  enlarged,  by  f.  T.^Vlolesworth.  Royal  4to.  pp.  xxx.  and  922,  boards. 
1857.  x  £3  3*. 

Moor. — THE  HINDU  PANTHEON.  By  Edward  Moor,  F.R.S.  A 
New  Edition,  with  additional  Plates,  Condensed  and  Annotated,  by  the  Rev.  W. 
0.  Simpson.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xvi.  and  402.  With  a  Frontispiece  and  59  Plates. 
1864.  £2  8s. 

Morell,  -^-RussiA.  AND  ENGLAND  ;  their  Strength  and  their  Weak- 
ness. By  John  Reynell  Morell,  Author  of  "  Russia  as  it  is,"  etc.  12rno.  sewed, 
pp.  104.  185?.  Is. 

Morgan. — A  DICTIONARY  OF  TERMS  USED  IN  PRINTING.  By  H. 
Morgan,  Government  Printing  Establishment.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  136.  1863. 
7s.  Qd. 

Morgan, — THE  DUKE'S  DAUGHTER.  A  Classic  Tragedy,  Acting 
Edition.  Pp.  78,  roan.  5s. 

Morley, — A  DESCRIPTIVE  CATALOGUE  of  thtf  Historical  Manuscripts 
in  the  Arabic  and  Persian  Languages  preserved  in  the  Library  of  the  Royal 
Asiatic  Society  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  By  William  H.  Morley,  M.R.A.S. 
8vo.,  pp.  viii.  and  160,  sewed.  1854.  2s.  6d. 

Morley, — SUNRISE  IN  ITALY,  etc.  Reveries.  By  Henry  Morley. 
4to.  cloth,  pp.  164.  1848.  7s.  M. 

Morrison, — A  DICTIONARY  OF  THE  CHINESE  LANGUAGE.  By  the 
Rev.  R.  Morrison,  D.D.  Ne«v  Edition.  2  vols.  small  4to.  cloth.  Vol.  1,  pp. 
ix.  and  762.  Vol.  2.  pp.  827.  1865.  £4  4s. 

Motley, — CAUSES  OF  THE  CIVIL  WAR  IN  AMERICA.  By  John  Lothrop 
Motley,  LL.D.  Reprinted  from  the  "  T^mes."  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  30.  1861.  Is. 

Muhamnied, — THE»LIFE  OF  MUHAMMED.  Based  on  Muhammed 
Ibn  Is'hak.  By  AJftl  El  Malik  Ibn  Hisham.  Edited  by  Dr.  Ferdiiiand'Wiisten- 
field.  One  volume  containing  the  Arabic  TText-u  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  1026.  21s. 
Another  Volume,  containing  Introduction,  Notes,  and  Index  in  German.  8vo. 
,sewed,  pp.  Ixxii.  and  266.  7s.  6rf."  Each  parObld  separately. 
The  test  based  on  the  Mauuscwpts  of  the  Berlin,  Leipsic,  Gotha,  and  Leyden  Libraries,  has 

bee  11  carefully  revised  by  the  learned  editor,  and  prfnted  with  the  uftnost  exactness. 


64        L  Publications  of  Tr'dbner  fy  Co. 

Mllir. — ORIGINAL  SANSKRIT  TBX:TS,  on  the  Origin  and  History  of  the 
People  of  India,  their  Religion  aid  Institutions.  Collected,  Translated,  and 
Illustrated  by  J.  Muir,  Esq.,  D.U.L.,  LL.D.  Volume  E:rst:  Mythical  andc 
Legendary  Accounts  of  the  Origin  of  Caste,  wiih  an  inquiry  into  its  existence  in 
the  Vedic  age.  Sa«ond  Edition.  Re- written  ,  and  greatly  enlarged.  8vo. 
pp.  xx.  and  532,  cloth.  1868.  21*. 

t  , 

Mllir, — ORIGINAL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS,  on  the  'Origin  and  History  of 
the  People  of  India,  their  Religion  and  Institutions.  r  Collected,  Translated,  and 
Illustrated  by  J.  Muir,  Esq.,  D.C.L.,  LLD.  Volume  Third.  The  Vedas: 
Opinions  of  their  Authors,'  and  of  later  Indjan  Writers*,  on  their  Origin,  Inspira- 
tion, and  Authority.  Second  Edition,  Enoa'rged.  [In  the  press  J 

c-         • 

Mllir,— ORIGINAL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS,  on  the  Origin -and  History 'of 
the  People  of  India,  their  Religion  and  Institutions.  Collected,  Translated  'into 
English,  and  Illustrated  by  Remarks,  by  J.  Muir,  D.C.'sJ.,  LL.D.  V_ol.  Fovrth. 
Comparison  of  ^he  Vedic  with  the  later  'representation  of  the  principal  Indian 
Deities.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xji.  and  440.  186-3.  15s. 

o  ,, 

Mullhall. — COTTON  FIELDS  OF  PARAGUAY  AND  .CQRRIENTES  ;  ueing 
an  Account  of  a  Tour  through  these  Countries,  preceded'  <by  Annals  <>~f  Cotton 
Planting  in  the  River  Plate  Territories,  from  1862  to  1864.  By  Michael  G. 
Mulhall.  Square  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  120.  1866.  ft. 

Miiller, — PARALLELS  ENTRE  JULES  CESAR,  par  Shakspeare,  et  La 
Mort  de  Cesar,  par  Monsieur  de  Voltaire.  Faite  nar  Robert  Miiller,  Philos. 
Doctor.  12mo.  sewed,  pp.  20.  1864.  1*. 

Miiller. — THE  SACRED  HYMNS  OF  THE  BRAHMINS,  as  Preserved  to  us 
in  the  Oldest  Collections  of  Religious  Poetry,  "  The  Rig  Veda-Sanhita."  Trans- 
lated and  Explained.  By  Max  Miiller,  M.A.,  Taylorian  Professor  of  Modern 
European  Languages  in  the  University  of  Oxford,  Fellow  of  All  Souls  College. 
In  8  vols.  [Vol.  I.  in  the  press.] 

Miiller. — OUTLINE  DICTIONARY  for   the   Use   of  Missionaries,  Ex> 

plorers  and  Students  of  Language.  AVith  an  Introduction  on  the  proper  Use  of 
the  Ordinary  English  Alphabet  in  transcribing  Foreign  Languages.  By  Max 
Miiller,  M.A.,  Taylorian  Professor  in  the  University  of  Oxford.  The  Voca- 
bulary compiled  by  John  Bellows.  12mo.  morocco,  pp.  368.  1867.  7s.  Gd. 

Mimcll. — WILLIAM   AND  RACHAEL    RUSSELL;    A  Tragedy,  in  Five 

Acts.  By  Andreas  Munch.  Translated  from  the  Norwegian,  and  Published 
under  the  Special  Sanction  of  the  Poet.  By  John  Heyliger  Bart.  12mo.  pp 
126.  1862.  3s.  Gd. 

MtULChaUSen,  Baron. — THE  TRAVELS    AND   SUEPRI  TNG    ADVENTURES 

OF.  AVith  Thirty  original  Illustrations  (T?A  full-page  coloured  plates  and 
twenty  woodcuts),  by  Alfred  Crowquill.  Crown  8vo.  ornamental  cover,  richly 
gilt  front  and  back,  pp.  xii.  and  194.  1859.  7*'.  Gd. 

Munroe. — THE  PHYSIOLOGICAL  ACTION  OF  ALCOHOL.  A  "Lecture 
delivered  at  the  Royal  Institution,  Hull.  By  Henry  Munroe,  M.D.,  F.L.S. 
8vo.  sewed,  pp.  35.  1865.  Gd.  r 

(V  (.-  ,  '.- 

Nalll. — INSTRUCTIONS   IN    GYMNASTICS.       By  Arthur    and   Charles 

X alii.  Illustrated  with  53  plates.  Containing  several  hundred  figures,  Designed 
and  Engraved  by  the  Authors^' representing  the  various  exercises  on  the  ground, 
the  A'aulting  Horse,  Parallel  Bars,  Horizontal  Bars,  Rings,  etc.,  including  con- 
struction of  Pyvarn&ls.  Plan  of  Apparatus,  etc.  4to.  cloth,  pp.  67.  1865.  £1  la. 


Publications  oj  Triibner  §  Co.  >        65 

Nayler.  —  AN  APPEAL  from   the   Prejudices    to  the   Judgments  of 
the   Thinking  Inhabitants  of  Pembrokeshire  011  the  Sabbath   Question.      By 
tt  B.  S.  Nayler.     Smull  4to.  sewed,  pp.  64.     18.59.     Is. 

Neale.  —  MY  COMRADE  AND  ^IY   COLOURS;  or,   M«n  who  know  not 
when  they  are  Beaten.  By*  Rev.  E.  Neale.     12mo.  sewed,  pp.  135.     1854,     Is. 

NeutrgfiS  AND  BELLIGERENTS.  —  The  Rights  of  Neutrals  and  Belli- 

gerents, from  a  Modern  Point  of  View.      By  a.  Civilian.  8vo.  sewed,   pp.41. 

1862.     1*. 

•  »  *  ' 

New  UNIVERSAL  DICTIONARY  dij  the  English,  -French,  Italian,  and 

German  Langn^gds,    arranged   after    a  new   system.      Small    8vo.   cloth,  pp. 

1200.     1865;    7s,6cl. 


—  THE  DIFFICULTIES  OF  ELEMENTARY  GEOMETRY,  espe- 
cia'ily  thtfse  which  Concern  the  straight  line,  tile  plane,  and  the  theory  of 
parallels.  By  Francis  William  Newman,  formerly  Fellow  of  Balliol  College, 
Oxford.  8vo.  hoards,  pp.  viii.  a^d  1^4.  184>.  5s. 

NewmaD..  —  ON  TH$  "-EOLATIONS  OF  FREE  KNOWLEDGE  TO  MORAL 
SENTIMENT.  A  Lecture  delivered  in  University  College,  London,  on  the  13th 
of  October,  1847,  as  introductory  to  the  Session  of  1847-1848.  By  Francis 
W.  Newman,  Professor  of  ^tin,  and  formerly  Fellow  of  Balliol  College,  Oxford. 
8vo.  sewed,  pp.  24.  1847.  Is. 

Newman.  —  LECTURES  ON.  POLITICAL  ECONOMY.  By  Francis  William 
Newman.  Post  &vo.  cloth,  pp.  vi.  and  342.  1851.  5s. 

"The  most  able  and  instructive  book,  which  exhibits,  we  think,  no  less  moral  than  econo- 
mical wisdom."  —  Pftospective  Review. 

Newman,  —  A  REPLY  TO  THE  ECLIPSE  OF  FAITH;  being  Chapter 
IX.  of  the  Second  Edition  of  the  Phases  of  Faith.  By  F.  "W.  Newman.  Post 
8vo.  sewed,  pp.  28.  1853.  (W. 

Newman,  —  THE  ODES  OF  HORACE.  Translated  into  Unrhymed 
Metres,  with  Introduction  and  Notes.  By  F.  W.  Newman,  Professor  of  Latin, 
University  College,  London.  Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  x,xi.  and  247.  1853.  5s. 

Newman.  —  THE  CRIMES  OF  THE  HOUSE  OF  HAPSBURG  AGAINST  ITS 
OWN  LIEGE  SUBJECTS.  By  F.  "W.  Newman.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  60.  1853.  Is. 

Newman,  —  THE  ILIAD  OF  HOMER,  faithfully  translated  into  Un- 
rhymed Metre.  By  F.  "W.  Newman,  Professor  of  Latin  in  University  College, 
London.  Crown  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  xxii.  and  436.  1856.  6s.  6d. 

Newman.  —  THEISM,  DOCTRINAL  AND  PRACTICAL  ;  or,  Didactic  Reli- 

gious Utterance*    By  Francis  W.  Newman.     4to.  cloth,  pp.  184.  1858.     8s.  Gd. 

Newman.  —  THE  RELATIONS  OF  PROFESSIONAL  TO  LIBERAL  KNOW- 
LEDGE. A  Lecture  delivered  in  University  College,  London,  October  12,  1859. 
Introductory  to  the  Session  of  the  Faculty  of  Arts  and  Laws,  1859-1860.  By 
Francis  "W.  NewmariJ  Professor  o,f  Latin,  and  formerly  Fellow  of  Balliol 
College,  'Oxford.  8v,&.  sewed^pp.  30.  1859.  Is. 

Newman.  —  HOMERIC    TRANSLATION    IN  THEORY  AND  PRACTICE.     A 

Reply  to  Matthew  Arnold,  Esq.,  Pr6fessor  of  Poetry,  Oxford.  By  Francis  W. 
Newman,  a  Translator  of  the  Iliad.  Crown.  8yo.  stiff  covers,  pp.  104.  18C1. 
'2*.  Gtl.  » 


66         '  Publications  of  Triibner  fy  Co- 


.  —  HIAWATHA:  Rend*  red  into  Latin.      With  Abridgment:' 

By  Francis  William  Newman,  ProVessor  of  Latin  in  University  College,  London. 
12mo.  sewed,  pp.  vii.  and  110.     1862.     2*.  6d.  *'.    "  , 


.  —  THE  SoHiL  :  Her  Sorrows  and  her  Aspirations.  An  Essay 
towan^s  the  Natural  History  of  the  Soul,  as  the  Basis  of  Theology.  By  Francis, 
"William  Newman,  formerly  Fellow  of  Balliol  College,'  Oxford.  New  ed.,  post 
8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xi.  and  162.  1868.  3s.  6d. 

Newman.  —  A  DISCOURSE  AGAINST  HERO  -MAKING  IN  RELIGIOU, 
delivered  in  South  Plate,  Finsbury.  B^  Francis  <"W.  Newmai.  Printed  by 
request,  with  enlargements.  8vo.  sewed/pp.  30.  t  1864.  1*.  , 

Newman.  —  CATHOLIC  UNION  :  Essays  towards  a  .Church  of  the 
future,  as  the  organization  of  Philanthropy.  By  F.  W.  Newman.  Post  8\o. 
cloth,  pp.  113.  1864.  3s.  6/C  '.  ' 

t,  , 

Newman.  —  A  HISTORY,  OF  THE  HEBREW  MONARCHY  from  the  Ad- 
ministration of  Samuel  to  the0  Babylonish  (Captivity.  By  Francis  William 
Newman,  formerly  Fellow  of  Balliol  College,  Oxford,  and  Author  of  "  The  Soul  ; 
its  Sorrows  and  Aspirations,"  etc.  Third  edition,  crown,  8vo.  cloth,  ;pp.  x.  and 
354.  1865.  8s.  6d. 

Newman.—  PHASES  OF  FAITH  ;  or,  Passages  from  the  History  of 
my  Creed.  New  Edition  ;  with  Reply  to  Professor  Henry  Rogers,  Author  of 
the  "  Eclipse  of  Faith."  Crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  212.  1865.  3s.  6d. 

Newman,  —  ENGLISH  INSTITUTIONS  AND  THEIR  iosT  NECESSARY 
REFORMS.  A  Contribution  of  Thought.  By  Francis  W.  Newman.  8vo.  pp. 
32.  1865.  6d. 

Newman,  —  THE  PERMISSIVE  BILL  MORE  URGENT  THAN  ANY  EXTEN- 
SION* OF  THE  FRANCHISE.  An  Address  at  Ramsgate,  February  17th,  1865.  By 
F.  W.  Newman.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  12.  1865.  Id, 

Newman,  —  A  HANDBOOK  OF  MODERN  ARABIC:  consisting  of  a 
Practical  Grammar,  with  numerous  examples,  etc.  By  F.  "W.  Newman.  Crown 
8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xxx.  and  1^0.  1866.  6*. 

Newman.  —  ON  THE  PHILOSOPHICAL  CLASSIFICATION  OF  NATIONAL 
INSTITUTIONS.  A  Lecture  delivered  at  the  Bristol  Institution  for  the  Advance- 
ment of  Science,  Literature,  and  the  Arts,  March  4th,  1867.  By  F.  W.  Newman. 
Published  by  Request.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  24.  1867.  Qd. 

Newman.  —  THE  TEXT  OF  THE  IGUVINE  INSCRIPTIONS.  With  Inter- 
linear Latin  Translation  and  Notes.  By  Francis  "W.  Newman.  8vo.  sewed, 
pp.  56.  1868.  2s. 

Newman,  —  TRANSLATIONS  OF  ENGLISH  POETRY  INTO  LATIN  VERSE. 
Designed  as  Part  of  a  New  Method  of  Instructing  in  Latin.  By  Frances  W. 
Newman,  Emeritus  Professor  of  University  College,  London,  formerly  Fellow 
of  Balliol  College,  Oxford.  In  1  crown  8vo.  vol.  cloth,  pp.  xiv.  and  202.  1868.  6s. 

Newton,11-  THE  OPERATION  OF  THE  PATENT  LAW  r,,  with  Suggestions 
for  their  better  Admiidstration.  By  A.  V.  Newton.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  31. 
1864.  6d.  k, 

Nicholson.  —  E  PUR  si  MTHV-E.  By  N.  A.  Nicholson,  M.A.,  Trinity 
College,  Oxford.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  115;.  1866.  2s.  6d. 


Publications  of  Tr'tibner  iy  Co.  i        67 

""Nicholson. — ONE  RESERVE    OR    MANT  ?     Thoughts   Suggested  by 
the  Crisis  of  1866.    1^  N.  A.  Nicholson,    fLA.,  Trinity  CoUoge,   Oxford.  Post 
t     8vo.  sewed,  pp.  2]^  1867.     1-v. 

Nicholson, — THE  CONTROVERSY  ON  FREE    BANKING,    being    a   few 

observations  on  an  Article  ifi  "  Eraser's  Magazine,"  January,  1868.  By  X.  A. 
Nicholson,  M.A.,  Trirjty  College,  Oxford.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  32.  1868.  As. 

Nicholson, — OBSERVATIONS  ON  COINAGE,  SEIGNORAGE,  •  etc.,  etc. 
*By  N.  A.  Nicholson,  M.A..,  Trinity  College,  Oxford.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  22.  1868. 
1*.  >  ,  •> 

Norton. — A  TREATISE  ON,  ASTAONOMY,  SPHE'RICAL  AND  PHYSICAL; 
jvith  Astronamfcai'  Problems,  and  Solar,  Lunar,  and  other  Astronomical  Tables, 
for  the  use  of  Colleges,  and  Scientific  .Schools.  By  William  A.  Norton,  M.A., 
Professor  of  Civil  Tinffineering  in  Yale  Collfige.  Fourth  Edition.  Revised, 
remodelled,  and  enlarged.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  574.  With  numerous  plates. 
1867.  ,15*. 

NotQS  and  Queries  ON  CHINA»AND  JAPAI?.  Edited  by  N.  B.  Dennys. 
Vol. 'I.  January  to  J)eceihber,  1867.  Eoyal  8vo.,  double  columns,  pp.  186, 
sewed.  \  £1  Is.  »  ' 

Nott. — IJECTURES  ON  BitfjicAL  TEMPERANCE.  By  Eliphalet  Nott, 
D.D.  With  an  Introduction.  By  Taylor  Lewis,  LL.D.  Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp. 
268.  1863.  6s. 

Ditto.     Ditto,  sewed.  ^863.     Is. 

Nott  and  Gliddon. — TYPES  OF  MANKIND  ;  or,  Ethnological  Re- 
searches  basedi*pon  the  Ancient  Monuments,  Paintings,  Sculptures,  and  Crania 
of  Races,  and  upon  their  Natural,  Geographical,  Philological,  and  Biblical 
History.  By  J.  C.  Nott,  M.D.,  Mobile,  Alabama  ;  and  Geo.  R.  Gliddon,  formerly 
U.S.  Consul  at  Cairo.  Plates.  Royal  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  738.  1854.  £1  5s. 

Nott  and  Gliddon. — THE  SAME,  in  4to.     £1  16s. 

Nott  and  Gliddon, — INDIGENOUS   RACES   OF   THE   EARTH  :    or,   New 

Chapters  of  Ethnological  Inquiry  :  including  Monographs  on  Special  Departments 
of  Philology,  Iconography,  Cranioscopy,  Paleontology,  Pathology,  Archaeology, 
Comparative  Geography,  and  Natural  History,  contributed  by  Alfred  Maury, 
Francis  Pulszky,  and  J.  Aitken  Meigs,  M.D.  ;  presenting  Fresh  Investigations, 
Documents,  and  Materials,  by  J.  C.  Nott,  M.D.,  and  Geo.  R.  Gliddon.  Plates 
and  Maps.  4to.  pp.  656,  sewed.  1857.  £1  16s. 

.Nott  and  Gliddon. — THE  SAME,  royal  8vo.    £l  5s. 

Nouvelles  PLAISANTES  RECIIERCHES  d'un  Homme  Grave  sur 
quelques  Farceurs.  8vo.  pp.  58.  1863.  10s.  Qd. 

Novalis. — CHRISTIANITY  OF  EUROPE.  By  Novalis  (Frederick  Von 
Hardenberg).  Translated  from  the  German  by  the  Rev.  John  Dalton.  Post  8vo. 
cloth,  pp.  34.  1844.  Is.  »  '  '  » 

Nugent's  IMPROVED  FRENCH  AND  ENGMSH  AND  ENGLISH  AND  FRENCH 
POCKET:' DICTIONARY  Par  ftmith."  2-*mo.  cloth,  pp.  489  and  320.  ^86?.  3s. 

Nystrom. — POCKET  BOOK  OF  MECHANIC'S  AND  ENGINEERING,  con- 
taining a  Memorandum  of  Facts  amd  ConViccticty  of  Practice  and  Theory.  By 
Jbhn  W.  Nystrom,  C.E.  10th  Edition,  pp.  326.  Revised  with  additional  matter. 
12mo.  roan  with  tuck.  1867'  7*.  67.  »  *  > 


68  Publications  of  Triibner  fy  Co. 

Oehlschlager's  GERMAN-ENGLISH  AND  ENGLISH-GERMAN  Pocket  Pro- 
nouncing Dictionary.  New  edition,  24mo.  strongly  bound  in  cloth.  4s. 

Ogareff.—  ESSAI  SUR  LA  SITUATION  EUSSE.  Lettres  a  un  Anglais.' 
Par  X.  OgarefF.  12mo.  sewed,  pp.  150.  1862.  3s. 

Oliver,—  A  TRANSLATION  OF  THE  SYRIAC  PESHITO  VERSION  OF  THE 
PSALMS  OF  DAVID,  with  notes,  critical  and  explanatory.  By  the  Rev.  Andrew- 
Oliver,  M.A.  Crown  8vo.  ckth,  pp.  xiv.  and  332.  ^8Ql.  7s.  &d. 

Ollendorff.—  METODO  FARA  APRENDU  \  LEER,  vvjscribir  y  hablar  el 
Ingles  segun  el  sistema  de  Ollendorff.  -Por  Ramon  Palenzurla  y  Juan  de  la 
Carreno.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xlvi.  and  460.  1867.  7s.  6&.  ^ 

Key  to  ditto.     12mo.  cloth,  pp.  111.     1863.     5*. 

Omnibus,  The.  —  A  SATIRE,     Crown  8vo.  limp  cloth,  pp.  44.     1865. 

2s.  Qd. 


O'Neill,  —  THE  FINE  ARTS  AKi>  CIVILIZATION  OF  ANCIENT  IRELAND, 
illustrated  with  chromo  and  other  lithographs,  and  several  'voodcuts.  By  Henry 
O'Neill,  author  of  the  work  on  '•  The  most  interesting  of  tie  Sculpture*!  Crosses 
of  Ancient  Ireland."  4to.  pp.  vi.  and  118,  cloth.  1863.  15s. 

Oriental  Text  Society  Publications. 

1.  THEOPHANIA,    or    Divine   Manifestations   of  our  Lord  and    Saviour.      By 

Eusebius,  Bishop  of  Caesarea,    Syriac.    Edited  hy  Professor  S.  Lee.    8vo. 
1842.     15s. 

2.  ATHANASIUS'    FESTAL   LETTERS,    discovered  in    an  ancient;,  Syriac  version. 

Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  Cureton.     8vo.     1848.     15s. 

3.  SHAHRASTANI  :  Book  of  Religious  and  Philosophical  Sects,  in  Arabic.     Two 

parts.     8vo.     1842.     30s. 

4.  UMDAT  AKIDAT  ahl  al   Sunnat  wa  al  Tamaat:  Pillar  of  the  Creed  of  the 

Sunnites.     Edited  in  Arabic  by,  the  Rev.  W.  Cureton.     8vo.     1843.     5s. 

5.  HISTORY  OF  THE  ALMOHADES.     Edited    in  Arabic  by   Dr.  R.  P.  A.  Dozy. 

8vo.  1847.     10s.  6d. 

6.  SAMA  VEDA.     Edited  in  Sanskrit  by  the  Rev.  G.  Stevenson.     8vo.     1843. 

12s. 

7.  DASA  KUMARA  CHARITA.     Edited  in  Sanskrit  by  Professor  H.  H.  "Wilson. 

8vo.     1846.     15*. 

8.  MAHA  VIRA  CHARITA,  or  a  History  of  Rama.     A  Sanskrit  Play.     Edited  by 

F.  H.  Trithen.     8vo.     1848.     15s. 

9.  MAKHZAX    UL    ASRAR  ;   the  Treasury  of  Secrets.     By  Xizami.     Edited  in 

Persian  by  X.  Bland.    4to.     1844.     10*.  6<7. 

10.  SALAMAX-U-UBSAL  ;  a  Romance   of  Jami  (Dshami).     Edited  in  Persian  by 

F.  Falconer.     4to.     1843.     10s. 

11.  MIRKHOND'S    HISTORY    OF  THE  ATABEKS.     Edited  in   Persian  by  AV.    II. 

Morley.     8vo.     1850.     12s. 

12.  TUHFAT-UL-AHRAR  ;  the  Gift  of  the   Xoble.     A  Poem   by  Jami  (Dshami). 

Edited  in  Persian  by  F.  Falconer.     4tj.     1843.     IQs. 

Oswald.  —  AUSTRIA  IN  1868.  By  Eugene  Oswald."  Eeprinted  from 
the  "  English  Leader."  8vo.  sewed  pp.  '40.  1868.  Is. 

Orthodox  Catholic  Review  (T?E).  Edited  by  Professor  J.  J.  Overbeck. 
Vol.  1.  8vo.  clotii,  pp.  iv.  and  290.  1868.  7*.  6rf. 


Publications  of  Tr'dbner  fy  Co.  69 

Jo  Osburn, — THE   MONUMENTAL  HISTOJ/Y  'OF  EGYPT,    as   recorded   on 
the  Iluins  of  her  Triples,  Palaces,  and  jTombs.     By  William  Osburn,  F.S.L. 
Illustrated  with  Maps,  Plates,  etc.    2  vols.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xii.  and  461  ;  vii.  and 
"*»      643.     1854,     £2  2s. 

Vol.  I.  From  the  Colonization  of  the  Valley  to  the  Visit  of  tb  j  Patriarch  Abram. 
Vol.  II.  From  the  Visit  of  ^.Mrarn  to  the  Exodus. 

Ott, — THE  ART  or1  MANUFACTURING  SOAP  AND  CANDLES,  iifbluding 
the  most  recent  discoveries,  embracing  all  kinds  of  ordinary  Hard,  Soft,  and 
Toilet  Soaps,  especially  fchose  made  by  the  Cold  Process,  the  modes  of  detecting 
frauds,  and  the  making  of  Tallow  and  Composite  Candles.  By  Adolph  Ott, 
Ph.  D.,  PActical  and  Analytical  Chemist.  8vo.  cft/th,  pp.  xxi.  and  193.  1867. 
10*.  6cl.  >  »  '  *. 

Our   North-west,  frontier.      With  Map.      8vo.  sewed,  pp.  20. 

1856,     Is.  '  t 

Our   RESOURCES.      'A    Series  pf  Articles  on   the  ^Financial    and 

Pqlitical  Condition  'of  the  United  States.     8vo.  sewed,  pp.  32.  '  1864.     Is. 

Overbeck. — CATHOLIC  ORTHODOXY  Afro  ANGLO-CATHOLICISM.  A 
Word  about  the  Intercommunion  between  the  -English  and  Orthodox  Churches. 
By  J\J.  Overbeck,*D.D.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  209.  1866.  5s. 

Overman, — MECHANICS  t»R  THE  MILLWRIGHT,  MACHINIST,  ENGINEER, 
CIVIL  ENGINEER,  ARCH^ECX,  AND  STUDENT  ;  containing  a  clear  elementary 
exposition  of  the  Principles  and  Practice  of  Building  Machines.  By  Frederick 
Overman,  Author  of  "  The  Manufacture  of  Iron,"  and  other  scientific  treatises. 
Illustrated  by  1.54  fine  T^ood  Engravings  by  William  Gihon.  Post  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.  420.  1864.  7*. 

Overman. — PRACTICAL  MINERALOGY,  ASSAYING  AND  MINING,  with  a 
Description  of  the  useful  Minerals,  and  instructions  for  Essaying  and  Mining 
according  to  the  simplest  methods.  By  Frederick  Overman,  mining  engineer, 
Author  of  "  Manufacture  of  Iron,"  and  other  works  of  applied  sciences.  Fifth 
Edition.  Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  230.  1862.  4s.  6d. 

Overman. — THE  MANUFACTURE  OF  STEEL  ;  containing  the  Practice 
and  Principles  of  working  and  making  Steel.  A  hand-book  for  blacksmiths  an  d 
workers  in  steel  and  iron,  wagon-makers,  die-sinbers,  cutlers,  and  manufacturer  s 
of  files  and  hardware,  of  steel  and  iron,  and  for  men  of  science  and  art.  By 
Frederick  Overman,  Mining  Engineer;  Author  of  the  "  Manufacture  of  Iron," 
etc.  Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  226.  1860.  4s.  Qd. 

Overman, — THE  MOULDER'S  AND  FOUNDER'S  POCKET  GUIDE.  A 
Treatise  on  moulding  and  founding  in  green-sand,  dry-sand,  loam,  and 
cement ;  the  moulding  of  machine  frames,  mill-gear,  hollow  ware,  ornaments , 
trinkets,  bells,  and  statues ;  description  of  moulds  for  iron,  bronze,  brass,  and 
other  metals  ;  plaster  of  Paris,  sulphur,  wax,  and  other  articles  commonly  used 
in  casting  ;  the  construction  of  melting  furnaces,  the  melting  and  foundering 
of  metals ;  the  composition  of  alloys  and  their  nature.  With  an  Appendix,  con- 
taining receipts  for  alloys,  bronze,  varnishes  and  colours  for  castings,  also  tables  on 
the  strength  and  other  qualities  of  cast  metals.  •>  By  Frederick  Overman,  Mining 
Engineer  ;  Author  of  "  The  Manufacture  of  Iron,"  "  a  Treatise  on  Steel,"  etc., 
etc.  With  42  WoiM  Engraving^,  Post  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  252.  1866.  4s.  Gd. 

0"Wen. FOOTFAELS    ON    'IHE    BOUNDARY    OF   ANOTHER    WORLD.          All 

enlarged  English  Copyright  Edition.      Ten  editions  of  this  work  have  been  sold 
within  a  very  short  time  in  America.'  In  ^e  present  edition,  the  author  has 
""  introduced  a  considerable  quantity  of  new  matter.     Post  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  xx.  and 
392.     1861.     7*'.  Qd.         '  »    »  , 


70  Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co. 

Owlglass  (MASTER  TYLL), — THE,  MARVELLOUS  ADVENTURES  AND  BARE 

COXCEITS  OF.     Edited,  with  an  Introduction,  and  a  Critical  and  Bibliographical 
Appendix.     By  Kenneth  R.   H.  Mackenzie,  F.S.A.,  with  six  coloured  full-page 
Illustrations,  and  twenty-six  Woodcuts,  from  original  designs  by  Alfred  Crowquill. ' 
Cloth  gilt,  pp.  xix.  aid  255.     1860.     10*.  Qrl.    <      a 

Oyster  (TnE)  :  WHERE,  How,  AND  WHEN  TC/  FIND,  BREED,  COOK, 
AND  EAT  IT.  Second  Edition,  with  a  new  chapter,  °The  Oyster-Seeker  in 
London.'  12mo.  boards,  pp.  viii.  and  106.  1863.  is. 

Page. — LA  PLATA,  THE  ARGENTINE  CONFEDERATION  AND  PARAGUAY 
Being  a  Narrative  of  the  Jf^ploration  of  the  Tributaries  of  the  Riyer  La  Plata 
and  adjacent  countries  dining  the  years  1&/S,  1854,  1855,  and  1856,  under  the 
orders  of  the  United  States  Government.  By  Tho'iuas  J.  P^ge^tJ.  8.  N.  Com- 
mander of  the  Expedition.  With  Map  and  numerous  Engravings-  New  Edition. 
8vo.  cloth,  pp.  632.  £1  1*. 

Palmer, — EGYPTIAN  CHRONICLES,  with  a  HarmJny  of  Sacred  aaid 

Egyptian  Chronology,  and  an  Appendix  on  Babylonian  and  Assyrian  Antiquities. 
By  William  Palmer,  M.  A.,  und  late  Fellow  i,f  Magdalen  College,  Oxford.  2  vols. 
8vo.  cloth,  pp.  Ixxiv.  428,  viii.  and"B36.  1861.  C12s>. 

Palmei'Ston. — LORD  PALMERSTON.     By  R.  H.      !R4prin^e(i  frjin  the 

Westminster  Revieiv  for  January,  1866.     8vo.  sewed,  pp.  36.     1866.     Is. 

Pandit  (THE). — A  MONTHLY  JOURNAL  'OF  BENARES  COLLEGE, 
devoted  to  Sanskrit  Literature.  Vol.  1.  Nos.  1  to  24,  November,  1866,  to 
May,  1868.  Folio  sewed,  pp.  184.  £2  8s. 

The  object  of  the  Pandit  is  to  publish  rare  Sanskrit  works  w7  ich  appear  worthy  of  careful 
editing  hereafter ;  to  offer  a  field  for  the  discussion  of  controverted  points  in  Old  Indian 
Philosophy,  Philology,  History,  and  Literature;  to  communicate  ideas  between  the  Aryan 
scholars  of  the  Kast  and  of  the  West ;  between  the  Pandits  of  Benares  an«"  Calcutta  and  the 
Sanskritists  of  the  Universities  of  Europe. 

The  Journal,  which  will  be  enlarge^as  soon  as  the  subscriptions  cuver  the  actual  expenses 
of  publication,  will  contain  also  Oiiginal  Articles  in  Sanskrit  and  English,  Critical  Notices  of 
new  Sanskrit  Books,  and  Translations  from  and  into  Sanskrit. 

Annual  subscription,  24s.  Intending  subscribers  are  requested  to  address  the  European 
Publishers. 

Papers  ON  PICTURE  FLAYING  AT  THE  NATIONAL  GALLERY.  Ee- 
printed  from  the  Weekly  Despatch..  By  an  Artist.  Post  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  44. 
1867.  Is.  <. 

Parker. — THE  PUBLIC  FUNCTION  OF  WOMAN.  A  Sermon  preached 
at  the  Music  Hall,  March  27,  1853.  By  Theodore  Parker.  Post  8vo.  sewed. 
1855.  Is. 

Parker. — THE  COLLECTED  WORKS  OF  THEODORE  PARKER,  Minister 
of  the  Twenty-Eighth  Congregational  Society  at  Boston,  U.S.  Containing  his 
Theological,  Polemical,  and  Critical  Writings ;  Sermons,  Speeches,  and  Addresses ; 
and  Literary  Miscellanies.  Edited  by  Frances  Power  Cobbe.  In  12  vols.  8vo., 
1863  to  186*5. 

Vol.  I.  Containing  Discourses  on  Matters  pertaining  to  Religion;  with  Preface  by  the 
Editor,  and  a  Portrait  of  Parker,  from  a  medallion  by  Saulini.  Cloht> 
pp.  380.  6s. 

Vol.  II.  Containing  Ten  Sermons  and  Prayers.     Cloth,  pp.360.    6s. 
Vol.  HI.  Containing  Discourses  of  Religion,    Cloth,  pp.  318.     6s. 
Vol.  IV.  Containing  Discourses  on  Politics.    Cloth,  pp.  312.     6s.    t 

Vol.  V.  Containing  Discourses  of  Slavery,  Vol.  I<i   Cloth,  pp.  33b.    6s. 
Vol.  Vi".  Con'ainiug  Discourses  of  Slavery,  Vol.  II.    Clot1!,  pp.  323^    6s. 
Vol.  Vlf.  Containing:  Discourses  of  Social  Science.    Cloth,  pp.  296.    6s. 
Vol.  VIII.  Contains  Miscellaneous  Discourses.    Cloth,  pp.  230.     6s. 
Vol.  IX.  Containing  Critical  Writings,  Vo? .  I.    Cloth,  pp.  292.     6s. 

Vol.  X.  Containing  Critical  Writf.  gs.  Vol.  II.    Cloth,  pp.  308.     6s. 

Vol.  XI.  Containing    Sermons   of   Theism,   Atheism,    and   Popular    Theology.        Cloin, 

pp.  257.    6~. 
Vol.  XII.  Autobiographical  and  Miscellaneous  pieces.     Cloth,  pp.  3';6.    6s. 


Publications  of  Trilbner  fy  Co.  71 

»Parkei,'  —  LESSONS  FROM  THE  WORLD  /tap  'MATTER  AND  THE  WORLD 
OF  MAN;  being  Selections  from  the  unpu/lished  Sermons  of  Theodore  Parker. 
By  Rufus  Leighton,  and  Edited  by  Frances  Power  Cobbe.  Post  8vo.  cloth, 

»    pp.  xix.  and  332.  ''  1865.     7*.  %d. 

Parker,  —  THE  CRITICAL  WRITINGS  OF  THEODORE  PARKER.      Edited 
by  Frances  Power  Ccfcbe.     2  vols.  8vo.,  cloth,  pp.  600.     1864-5.     12s.-* 
*  ) 

P^rrisll,  —  A  TREATISE^  ON  PHARMACY  ;  designed  as  a  Text  Book 
for  the  Student,  and  as  a  Guide  to  the  Physician  and  Pharmaceutist.  Con- 
taining the?  official  ana'manj'  unc3Icial  formulas,  aujd  many  examples  of  extem- 
poraneous prescriptions.  By  EdwaM  Parrish,  Professor  of  Materia  Medica  in 
Othe  Philadelphia  College  of  Pharmacy.  Third  Edition,  revised  with  important 
additions.  238  illustrations.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  850.  £1  4s. 

PartnersMp,  WITH  LIMITED  LIABILITY.  Reprinted,  with  additions, 
from  the  IVestmin&er  Review.  NeV  Series,  No.  8,  October,  '1853.  Post  8vo., 
sewed,  pp.  63.  1854.  Is.  J  j  •' 

Partridge.  —  THE  'MAKING  OF  THE  AMERICAN  NATION  ;    or,  the  Eise 

and  Decline  of  Oligarchy  in  the  West.  Showing  how  the  American  Nation  and 
Democracy  have  been  ma*^,  and  what  they  are,  with  considerations  on  their 
tendency  and  destiny.  8'p.  cloth,  pp.  xxxvii.  and  523.  1866.  16o-. 

Partridge,  —  ON  DEMOCRACY.  By  J.  Arthur  Partridge.  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.  418.  1866.  ^  10s.  $ 

Parvilla  )  OR  -A  FEW  LITTLE  RHYMES  ABOUT  A  FEW  LITTLE  FLOWERS, 
A  FEW  LITTLE  BIRDS,  AND  A  FEW  LITTLE  GIRLS  ;  to  which  are  added  a  Few 
Little  Songs,  and  a  Few  other  Little  Things,  by  Minimus.  18mo.  cloth,  pp.  192. 
1864.  5*. 

Patell,  —  COWASJEE  PATELL'S  CHRONOLOGY,  containing  corres- 
ponding dates  of  the  different  eras  used  by  Christians,  Jews?  Greeks,  Hindus, 
Mohamedans,  Parsees,  Chinese,  Japanese,  etc.  By  Cowasjee  Sorabjee  Patell, 
4to.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  183.  1866.  £2  10s.  > 

Paterson,  —  TREATISE  ON  MILITARY  DRAWING.  With  a  Course  of 
25  Progressive  Plates.  By  Captain  W.  Paterson,  Professor  of  Military  Drawing 
at  the  Eoyal  Military  College,  Sandhurst.  Oblong  4to.  cloth,  pp.  xii.  and  31. 
1862.  £1  Is. 

Paton,  —  RESEARCHES  ON  THE  DANUBE  AND  THE  ADRIATIC  ;  or,  Con- 
tributions to  the  Modern  History  of  Hungary  and  Transylvania,  Dalmatia,  and 
Croatia,  Servia  and  Bulgaria.  By  A.  A.  Paton,  F.R.G.S.  In  2  vols.  12mo.. 
cloth,  pp.  830.  1861.  12s. 

Paton,  —  A  HISTORY  OF  THE  EGYPTIAN'  REVOLUTION,  from  the 
Period  of  the  Mamelukes  to  the  Death  of  Mohammed  Ali  ;  from  Arab  and  European 


Memrjrs,  Oral  Tradition,  and  I&cpjl  Research.  By  A.  A.  Paton,  F.R.G.S., 
Author  of  "  Researches  on3  the  Danube  and  the  Adriatic."  2  vols.  ovo.  cloth. 
pp.  xii.,  395,  and  viii.  352.  1863.  £1  4s.  »  > 

Pftton,  —  SKETCHES  OF  THE  UGLY  SIDE  o'£  HUMAN  NATURE.     By  A, 
A.  Paton.     Crown  8vo.  tioth,  pp.  302.     1F4>8»    V*.  6«7. 


72  Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co. 

Percy,  —  BISHOP  PERCY'S  i  OLIO  MANUSCRIPT  —  BALLADS  AND 
EOMANCES.  Edited  by  John  W.  Titles,  M.A.,  Fellow  aLti  late  Assistant  Tutor 
of  Christ's  College,  Cambridge  ;  and  Frederick  J.  Funih-aH,  M.A.,  of  Trinity 
Hall,  Cambridge ;  assisted  by  Professor  Child,.of  Harvard  University,  U.S.A., 
W.  Chappell,  Esq.,  etc.  In  3  vols.  Vol.  1,  pr>.  610.  Vol.  2,  pp.  681.  Vol.  3, 
pp.  640.  Demy  8vo.,  half-bound,  £2  2*.  Extra  ^emy  8vo.,  half-bound,  on 
What*,  an' s  ribbed  paper,  £3  15*.  Extra  royal  8vo.,  paper  covers,  on  "Whatman's 
best  ribbed  paper,  £5  5s.  Large  4to.,  paper  covers,  on  Whatman's  best  vibbed 
paper,  £10  10s. 

Perrin, — AN   ENGLISH-ZULU   DICTIONARY.      By   J.    Perrin.      New 

Edition,  revised  by  J.  A. ,'  Brickhiel,  Interpreter  to  the  Supreme  Court  of  Natal. 
16mo.  cloth,  pp.  226.     Pietermaritzburg.    ^1865.     5s.  ,     - 

Petb'fi, — POEMS,  Selected  from  the  "Works  of  the  Gbreat  Hungarian 
Bard,  Alexander  Petofi.  Translated  from  the  Magyar,  with  a  Biogiaphical 
and  Critical  Introduction  by  Sir  John  Bowring,  K.C.B.,*LL.D.,  etc.,  etc.  Fcap. 
8vo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  239.  1866.  5s.  '* 

Petruccelli. — PRELIMIN AIRES  EE  LA  'QUESTION  ROMAINE  DE  M. 
Ed.  About.  Par  F.  Petruccelli  de  laGattina.  8vo.  clcth^  pp.  xv.  and  364.  I860. 
7s.  6d. 

Petzholdt, — BIBLIOTHECA  BIBLIOGRAPHICA.  ,  Kritisches  Verzeichniss 
der  das  Gesammtgebiet  der  Bibliographic  betretfepden  Litteratur  des  In-und 
Auslandes.  In  Systematischer  Ordnung  bearbeitet  von  Dr.  Julius  Petzholdt.  Mit 
Alphabetischem  Namen-und  Sachregiater.  Eoyal  8vo.,  paper  covers,  pp.  939. 
1866.  12s.  (i, 

Philological  Society. — PROPOSALS  FOR  THE  PUBLICATION  OF  A  NEW 
ENGLISH  DICTIOXAKY.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  32.  1859.  Qd. 

Pick. — A  NEW  METHOD  OF  STUDYING  FOREIGN  LANGUAGES.  By 
Dr.  Edward  Pick.  The  French  Language,  Part  1,  the  Genders  and  Irregular 
Verbs.  Part  2,  New  Method  of  Studying  the  Language.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  viii. 
and  212.  1863.  3s.  6d. 

Pick. — ON  MEMORY  AND  THE  RATIONAL  MEANS  OF  IMPROVING  IT. 
By  Dr.  Edward  Pick.  Fourth  Edition,  with  new  Applications  to  the  Study  of 
the  French  and  German  Languages.  Eoyal  ISmo.  cloth,  pp.  vi.  and  20.  1866. 
3s.  6cl. 

Pick. — ON  MEMORY.  By  Dr.  Edward  Pick.  A  Condensed  Edition. 
Eoyal  18mo.  limp,  pp.  140.  1866.  Is.  6d. 

Pickering. — THE  GEOGRAPHICAL  DISTRIBUTION  OF  ANIMALS  AND 
PLANTS.  By  Charles  Pickering,  M.D.  4to.  cloth,  pp.  214.  1864.  15s. 

Picture  Flaying  (PAPERS  ON)  AT  THE  NATIONAL  GALLERY.  Reprinted 
from  the  Weekly  Dispatch.  By  an  Artist.  8vo.r  sewed,  pp.  44.  1867.  Is. 

Piggot. — CHEMISTRY  AND  METALLURGY,  as  applied  to  the  study  and 
practice  of  Dental  Surgery.  By  A.  Snow  den  Piggot,  M.D.,  late  Professor  of 
Anatomy  and  Physiology  in"  the  "Washington  University  of  Baltimore.  With 
numerous  Illustrations.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  5i6.  1854.  18$. 

Piggot,t—  THE  CHEMISTRY  AND  ME!TAiLURG,y  OF  COPPER,  including 
a  description  of  the  principal  Copper  Mines  of  the  United  States  and  other 
countries,  the  art  of  mining  and  preparing  ores  for  market,  and  the  various 
processes  of  Copper  Smelting^  etc.  *dy  A.  Snowden  Piggot,  M.D. ,  Analytical 
and  Consulting  Chemist.  With  Illustrations.  Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  388.  18o8. 
7*.  6rf.  f.  '  f 


Publications  of  Trubner  <Sf  Co.  73 

'"PilgrinlS  Of  Fashion,  —  A  NOVEL.     EWE.'  C.     8vo.  pp.  xvi.  and  338. 

Cloth.     1862.     16*.  v  I 

'Pint.  —  THE  NEG^O  AND  JAMAICA.  By  Commander  Bedford  Pirn, 
R.N.  Read  before  the  Anthropological  Society  of  London,  February  1st,  1866, 
at  St.  James's  Hall.  PosJ  &vo.'  sewed,  pp.  vii.  and  32.  f866.  Is. 

Pirazzi.  —  L'ANGLET3RRE  ET  L'ALLEMAGNE  A  PROPOS  DU  SCH^ESWIG- 
HOL&TEIN.     Par  Einile  PLfezzi.    Memoire  envoye  a  plusieurs  membres  du  parle- 
nient  Anglais  et  suivi  d'un  article  a  1'adresse  d\j   Times.     8vo.  sewed,  pp.  180. 
°1865.    2s.  Gd. 

Plain  Papers.  —  By  Pikestaff,  •>  Vol.  I.      12mp.  cloth,  pp.  vii.   and 

144.     1866.     V--  J 

'    *»  ' 

Plumb-Line  (Tn'E)^    OR  THE  TRUT?  SYSTEM  OF  THE  INTERPRETATION 

' 


OF  SIJRIPTURE.     Als>  Queries  on  the  Foregoing  Subjects.     8vo'.  sewed,  pp.  iv. 
aiid63.   '1861.     Is.  •> 

Poe,-^  THE  WORKS  OF  EDGAR^ALLAN  POE.  ,  In  4  vols.,  crown  8vo. 
clbth.  Vol.  1,  pp.lv.  and  4J3.  Vol.  2,  p*p.  xxvi.  and  495.  Vol.  3,  pp.  607. 
Vol.  4.  pp.  447.  I860.  '£1  12s. 

Policy  OF  THE  DANISH  GOVERNMENT  AND  THE  "MISUNDERSTAND- 
INGS."' A  Key  to  the  Budfg^t  Dispute.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  74.  1861.  Is. 

Political  (THE).  —  PROBLEM  OF  THE  DAY.  MR.  GLADSTONE  THE  MAN 
TO  SOLVE  IT.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  21.  1865.  Is. 

Ponsard.  —  CHARLOTTE  ^CORDAY.      A    Tragedy.       By   F.    Ponsard. 

Edited  with  English  Notes  and  Notice  on  Ponsard,  by  Professor  C.  Cassal,  LL.D., 
of  University  "College,  London.     12mo.  cloth,  pp.  xi.  and  133.     1867.     2s.  6^. 

Popes'  EIGHTS  AND  WRONGS.     An  Historical  Sketch.     12  mo.  cloth, 

pp.  xiv.  and  97.     I860.     2s  6d. 
Popes  (THE).  —  THEIR  TEMPORAL  DOMINION  AND  INFALLIBILITY.     An 

Argument  between  a  Lady  and  an  Italian.     12mo.  sewed,  pp.  8.     Id. 

Porcari,  —  THE  SENATE  OF  EOME  AND  THE  POPE.  S.  P.  Q.  E.  By 
Stephano  Porcari.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  30.  1867.  * 

Powell.  —  A  WORKING  MAN'S  VIEW  OF  TENNYSON'S  "ENOCH  ABDEN." 

By  J.  H.  Powell.     12mo.  sewed,  pp.  29.     1866.     M. 
Powell,  —  LIFE  INCIDENTS  AND  POETIC  PICTURES.     By  J.  H.  Powell. 

Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  iv.  and  264.     1865.     5s. 

Preaching  SUITED  TO  THE  TIMES.  A  Charge  from  Utopia.  16mo. 
sewed,  pp.  39.  1865.  Is. 

Preciosa  ;  A  TALE.     Pcap.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  326.     1852.     7s.  6d. 

Prescott,  —  LIFE  OF  WILLIAM  HICKLING  PRESCOTT.  By  George 
Ticknor.  4to.,  pp.  x.  and  492.  Printei  on  Tcned  Paper.  "With  Portrait  and 
Illustrations.  Ornamental  Binding,  uncut.  Gilt  top.  1864.  £1  16s. 

,t 

Prescott,  —  SIR  ETHAN'S!)  GHOST?  A  Eomance.  By  Miss  ]?rescott. 
Crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  x.  and  352.  1860.  5s.  , 


Prescott,  —  HISTORY,  THEORY,  Aisto  PRACTICE  OF  THE  ELECTRIC 
'TELEGRAPH.  By  George  ^B.  Prescott,  Superintendent  of  Electric  Telegraph 
Lines.  Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xii.  and  4£8.  ?8tfO.  10s.  G& 


74  Publications  of  Triibner  <Sf  Co. 

Priaillx, — QUESTIONES   MOSAIC,  or   the   First   Part  of  the'  Book  ' 

of  Genesis,  compared  with  the  Remains  of  Ancient  Re£gions.  By  Osmond  de 
Beauvoir  Priaulx.  Second  Edition,  corrected  and  enlarged.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  vii. 
and  548.  1854.  12s. 

Pritchard, — ADHiEta/rY  DIGEST.  A  -Digest  of  the  Law  and 
Practice  of  the  High  Court  of  Admiralty  of  Englknd,  with  Notes  from  Text , 
Writers,  and  the  Scotch,  Irish,  and  American  Repofts.  By  William  Tarn 
Pritchard,  Proctor  in  Doctors  Commons.  Second  edition,  omitting  Prize  and 
Slave  Cases.  By  Robert  A.  Pritchard,  D.C.L.,  of  tte  Inner  Temple,  Barrister- 
at-Law,  and  William  Tarn  Pritchard.  With  Notes  of  Cases  from  French 
Maritime  Law.  By  Algdfiion  Jones,  AvoQ/it  a  la  Ct>ur  ImperiaCe  de  Paris,  in 
2  vols.  roy.  8vo.  1865.  "  £3.  *• 

Probyn, — ESSAYS  ON  ITALY,  IRELAND,  AND  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF 
AMERICA.  By  John  W.  Probyn,  Esq.  '  1  vol.,  crown  8vo.  [In  the  pi  ess. 

Plllszky. —  THR^EE  CHRISTUAS  PLAYS. 'FOR  CHILDREN.  The  Slee*per 
awakened.  The  Wonderful  Bird.  Crinolina.  By  Theresa  Pulszky.  ,With 
Music  by  Professor  L.  Jansa,  and  Illustration^,  by  Charles  Armytage.  Square 
12mo.  pp.  130,  cloth.  1859.  3s.  6d. 

Quentin. — AN  ACCOUNT  OF  PARAGUAY.  Its  History,  its  People,  and 
its  Government.  From  the  French  of  M.  Ch.  Quentin.  Svo.  sewed,  pp.  90. 
1865.  Is. 

Qllinet, — ULTRAMONTISM  ;  or,  The  Roman  Church  and  Modern 
Society.  By  E.  Quinet,  of  the  College  of  France.  Translated  from  the  French 
(Third  edition),  with  the  Author's  approbation.  Bo  C.  Cocks,  B.L.  Post  Svo. 
pp.  ix.  and  184,  cloth.  1845.  5s. 

Raja-Mti, — A  COLLECTION  OF  HINDU  APOLOGUES,  ±N  THE  BRAJ 
BHA'SHA'  LANGUAGE.  Revised  Edition.  With  a  Preface,  Notes,  and  supple- 
mentary glossary.  By  Fitzedward  Hall,  Esq.  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  204.  1854. 
£1  Is. 

Ram  Raz, — ESSAY  ON  THE  ARCHITECTURE  OF  THE  HINDUS.  By 
Ram  Raz,  Najive  Judge  and  Magistrate  of  Bangalore,  Corresponding  Member  of 
the  R.A.S.  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  With  48  Plates.  4to.,  pp.  xiv.  and 
64,  sewed.  1834.  Origin?!  selling  price,  £1  11s.  6d.,  reduced  (for  a  short  time 
only)  to  12s. 

Randall, — EINE  WOOL  SHEEP  HUSBANDRY.  By  Henry  S.  Randall, 
LL.D.  Read  before  the  New  York  State  Agricultural  Society,  February  12, 
1862.  With  an  Appendix,  containing  valuable  statistics  in  reference  to  wool 
culture,  imports,  prices  of  fine  wool  from  1840  to  August  1,  1863,  etc.  Small 
Svo.  cloth,  pp.  190.  5s. 

Randall. — THE  PRACTICAL  SHEPHERD.  A  Complete  Treatise  on 
the  Breeding,  Management,  and  Diseases  of  Sheep.  By  Henry  S.  Randall,  LL.D. 
With  Illustrations.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  ix.  and  454.  1864.  10s.  &d. 

Rask, — GRAMMAR  OF  THE  ANGLO-SAXON  TONGUE,  from  the  Danish 
of  Erasmus  Rask.  By  Benjamin  (Thorpe.  Second  edition,  corrected  and 
improved,  with  Plate.  Post  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  vi.  and  191.  1865.  5s.  6d. 

Rask,-rA  SHORT  TRACTATE  on  the*-  Longevity^  ascribed  o  to  the 
Patriarchs'' in  the  Book  of  Genesis,  and  its  relation  to  the  Hebrew  Chronology ; 
the  Flood,  the  Exodus  of  t'ne  Israelites,  the  Site  of  Eden,  etc.  From  the  Danish 
of  the  late  Professor  Rask  ;  w^th  his°manuFcript  corrections,  and  large  additions 
from  his  autograph,  now  for  the  first  time  printed.  With  a  Map  of  Paradise  and 
the  circumjacent  Jronds.  CroVnf  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  Io4.  1863.  2s.  Gd. 


Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co.  ,75 

Eavenstein.  —  THE  EUSSIANS    ON   THE  /AMUR  ;  its   Discovery,  Con- 
quest, and  Colonizatio'rf,  with  a  Description  af  the  Country,  its  Inhabitants,  Pro- 
,   ductions,   and    Commercial    Capabilities,    and    Personal  Accounts  of  Russian 
'"  Travellers.     By  E.  G.  Ravenstein,   F.R.G.S.,  Correspondent  F.G.S.  Frankfurt, 
with  an  Appendix  on  the   Navigation  of  the  Gulf  of  th#  Amur.     By  Captain 
Prutz.     In  one  volume,  8\*>.,'  500  pp.  of  Letter  Press,  4  tinted  Lithographs,  and 
3  Maps,  cloth.     1861.  »  15s.  .2 

> 

Eavenstein  and  Hulley*  —  THE  G-YMNASIUJI  AND  ITS  FITTINGS.     By 

E.  G.  llavcnstein  and  John  Hulley.  With  14  Plates  of  Illustrations.  8vo.  sewed, 
pp.  32.     18<fr.     2s.  6d.  '" 


E0yenstein    anfi  '  Hulley.  '  —  A    HAND-BOOK    OF 
ATHLETICS.     By  'JE.j  G.   Ravenstein,   FjR.G.S.,  etc.,  Presi 


GYMNASTICS    AND 
President  of  the  Gorman 

Gymndstic  Society,  Lwdon,  and  John  Hulley,  G^ynmasiarch  of  Liverpool.  With 
nurtierousAVoodcut  Illustrations  from  original  des'^ns.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and 
408.  L867.  8s.  Gil." 

-•j  i 

Eawliason,  —  A   COMMENTARY  ox  THE  CUNEIFORM   INSCRIPTIONS  OF 

BAHYL  »XIA  AND  ASSJHUA,  -including  Readings  of  the  Inscription  on  the  Nimrud 
Obelisk}  and  a  brief°Notice  of  the  ancient  Kings  of  Nineveh  and  Babylon.  Read 
before  the  Royal  Asiatic  Sow^ty,  by  Major  II.  C.  Rawlinson.  8vo.  pp.  84,  sewed. 
London,  1850.  2*'.  Gel.  ^ 

Rawlinson,  —  OUTLINES  OF  ASSYRIAN  HISTORY,  from  the  Inscrip- 
tions of  Nineveh,  By  Ifteut.-Colonel  Rawlinson,  C.B.,  followed  by  some 
Remarks,  by  A.  H.  Layard,  Esq.,  D.C.L.  8vo.  pp.  xliv.,  sewed.  1852. 
Is.  o 

Read,  —  POEMS.  By  Thomas  Buchanan  Eead.  Illustrated  by 
Kenny  Meadows.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  vii.  and  275.  1852.  6s. 

Eeade  —  WHITE  LIES  ;  a  Story.  By  Charles  Beade.  In  3  volumes, 
8vo.,  Vol.  I.,  pp.  300  ;  Vol.  II.,  pp.  238  ;  Vol.  III.,  pp.  232.  1857.  £1  Is. 

Eeade,  —  CREAM.  Contains  "Jack  of  all  JTrades;"  "A  Matter- 
of-Fact  Romance,"  and  "  The  Autobiography  of  a  Thief."  By  Charles  Reade. 
8vo.  pp.  270.  1858.  10s.  Qd. 

Eeade.  —  LOVE  ME  LITTLE,  LOVE  ME  LONG.  By  Charles  Eeade. 
In  2  vols.  post  8vo.  Vol.  I.  pp.  390  ;  Vol.  II.,  pp.  35.  8vo.  cloth.  1859.  21s. 

Eeade.  —  THE  EIGHTH  COMMANDMENT.  By  Charles  Eeade.  8vo., 
pp.  380.  I860.  14s.  o 

Eeade.  —  THE  CLOISTER  AND  THE  HEARTH  ;  a  Tale  of  the  Middle 
Ages.  By  Charles  Reade.  In  four  volumes.  Third  edition.  Vol.  I., 
pp.  360  ;  Vol.  II.,  pp.  376  ;  Vol.  III.;  pp.  325  ;  Vol.  IV.,  pp.  435.  1861. 
£1  11s.  6d.  4 

The-'Same.     Fourth  edit^pn.     In  X  vols.      Crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  ?£8,   391, 
338.     1862.     15s.'' 

T  5 

Eeform.  —  LETTER  to  the  Eight  Htfnourftble  the  Earl  of  Derby,  on 
Political  Reform.  By  One  of  the  People.  Post  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  46.  1867. 

Is.  *»   3  =» 


76  Publications  of  Trubner  &•  Co. 

.  " 

Reiff, — ENGLISH-RUSSIAN  GRAMMAR  ;  or,  Principles  of  the  Russian1 
Language  for  the  Use  of  the  English.  With  Synoptic!  Tables  for  the  Declen- 
sions and  Conjugations,  Graduated  Themes  or  Exercises  for  the  Application  of 
the  Grammatical  Rules,  the  Correct  Construction  of  these  Exercises,  and  tho 
Accentuation  of  ajl  the  Russian  Words.  ?By  Charles  Philip  Reiff.  Third 
edition,  carefully  revised.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  viii.  &nfl  191.  1862.  6s. 

Reiff. —LITTLE  MANUAL  OF  THE  RUSSIAN  LANGUAGE.  Py  Ch. 
Ph.  Reiff.  12mo.  sewed,  pp.  80.  1863.  2s.  Qd. 

„ 

Renan. — AN  ESSAY  q»  the  Age  and  Antiquity  of  $ie  Book  of 
Nabathasan  Agriculture  To  which  is  tfilded,  an  Inaugural  Lecture  on  the 
Position  of  the  Shemitic  Nations  in  the  History 'uf  C^vilizpticn.  By  M.  Ernest 
Renan,  Membre  de  1'Institut.  In  1  Vol.,  crown  8vo.  clpth,  pp.  xvi.  and  148. 
1862.  3s.  6d. 

»" 

Renan, — THE,  LITE  OF  "JESUS.  By  Ernest  Renan.  Authorised 
English  Translation.  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  xii.  and  311.  1864.  10s.  6d.  ' 

Ditto.     Crown  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  xii.  dnd  311.     186C.     2s.  Qd. 

Ditto.     Crown  8vo.  paper,  pp.  xii.  and  311.     New  edition,  -    1867.     Is.  Qd. 

Report  OF  THE  COMMITTEE  APPOINTED  V,BY  THE  CONFERENCE  OF 
MEMBERS  OF  THE  REFORM  LEAGUE  AND  OTHEKS^  on  Mr.  Hare's  'Scheme  of 
Representation,  held  at  their  Rooms,  on  28th  February,  and  7th  and  21st  March, 
1868.  8vo.  Is. 

Report  OF  THE  SUB-COMMITTEE  of  the  Newcastle-cn-Tyne  Associa- 
tion for  watching  the  war  limitation  of  the  supply  of  grain  by  the  past  action 
of  British  Diplomacy.  Svo.  sewed,  pp.  24.  1855.  Is. 

Revised  ARMY  REGULATIONS. — Vol.  I.     Royal  Warrant  for  the  Pay 

and  Promotion,  Non-Effective,  Pay  and  Allowances  of  Majesty's  British  Forces 
serving  elsewhere  than  in  India.  To  which  are  added  Instructions  to  Command- 
ing and  Financial  Officers.  Part  I.  Pay  dated  February  3rd,  1866.  8vo.  sewed, 
pp.  182.  18C6.  Is. 

Revolt  (THE)  OF  REASOI;  AGAINST  THE  REVEALED.  In  One  Volume, 
8vo.  (Shortly). 

Reynard  THE  Fox  ;  after  the  German  Version  of  Gb'the.  By  Thomas 
J.  Arnold,  Esq. 

"  Fair  jester's  humour  and  ready  wit 
Never  offeud,  though  smartly  they  hit." 

With  Seventy  Illustrations,  after  the  designs  of  Wilhelm  Von  Kaulbach.  Royal 
Svo.  pp.  vi.  226.  Printed  by  Clay,  on  toned  p'aper,  and  elegantly  bound  in  em- 
bossed cloth,  with  appropriate  design  after  Kaulbach  ;  richly  tooled  front  and 
back.  Price  16s.  Best  full  morocco,  same  pattern.  Price  24s. ;  or,  neatly 
half-bound  morocco,  gilt  top,  uncut  edges,  Roxburgh  style.  1860.  Price  18s. 

Richard  CoMen,  Roi  DES  BELGES.  Par  un  Ex-Colonel  de  la  Garde 
Civicyie.  Dedie  aux  blesses  de  Sept^mlfe-e.  Deuxieme,  edition.  Oown  Svo. 
sewed,  pp.  64.  1,863.  2s.  6d. 

Richter, — TITAN;  A  Romance.^  From  the  German  of  Jean  Paul 
Fricdrich  Richter.  Translated  by  Charles  T.  Brooks.  2  vols.  12mo.  cl'oth 
pp.  xv.,  522,  and  v>  521.  18ft3.^  ISs. 


Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co.  77 

FLOWER,  FRUIT,  AND  THOR<£    PIECES  ;    or,    the   Married 
Life,  Death,   and  Wetfding  of  the   Advecow  of  the   Poor,    Firmian    Stanislaus 
Siebenkas.    ,By  Jean  Paul  Friedrich  Richter.     Translated  from  the  German,  by 
*  Edward  Henry  Noel.     With  a  Memoir  of  the  Author.    By  Thomas  Carlyle.     In 
two  volumes.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  361,  and  v.  345.  •    1868.     21s. 

Bicllter, — LEV ANA;  tor,  the  Doctrine  of  Education.  Translated 
from'»the  German  of  Jean ,  Paul  Friedrich  Richter.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  xvii  and 

400.     1864.     10*. 

*  i> 

Eichter, — LIFE  OF  JEAN  PAUL  FRIEL\RICH  BICHTER,  compiled  from 
various  sources.  Preceded  hy  hi?  Autobiography.  4y  Eliza  Buckminster  Lee. 
12mo.  cloth,  pfy  x.yi.  and  53ft.  186*.  7s.  6d. 

Eicllter. — HESPJ&US  ;  or,  Forty-Five  Dog-Post  Days.  A  Biography, 

from  the   German  of^  Jean  Paul  Fried'rich  Richter.     Translated  by  Charles  T. 
Biooks,   -2  vols.  12mo.''cloth,  pp.  xxviii.  498,  and  y.  478.     1865.     21*. 

Eiddell- — THE  CARPENTER  ANJ>  JOINER,  ANp  ELEMENTS  OF  HAND- 
RAIDING.  By  Robert  Riddell.'  With  32  Elates.  Folio  cloth,  pp.  26.  1868. 


BJghts  XTHE)  OF  "NEUTRALS  AND  BELLIGERENTS.  From  a  modern 
point  of  view.  By  a  Civili&A.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  42.  1862.  Is. 

Eig-Yeda-SanMta  (THE).  THE  SACRED  HYMNS  OF  THE  BRAHMINS, 
as  preserved  to  us  in  the  oldest  collection  of  Religious  Poetry.  The  Rig-Veda- 
Sanhita,  translated  and  explained.  By  Max  Miiller,  M.A.,  Taylorian  Professor 
of  Modern  European  Languages  in  the  University  of  Oxford,  Fellow  of  All  Soul's 
College.  In  P^vols.,  8vo.  [Vol.  I.  in  the  press. 

Eig-Yeda  SanMta.  —  A  COLLECTION  OF  ANCIENT  HINDU  HYMNS, 
constituting  the  first  Aslitaka,  or  Book,  of  the  Rig-  Veda,  the  oldest  authority  for 
the  religious  and  social  institutions  of  the  Hindus.  Translated  from  the  original 
Sanskrit.  By  the  late  H.  H.  Wilson,  M.A.,  F.R.S.,  etc.,  late  Boden  Professor 
of  Sanskrit  in  the  University  of  Oxford.  With  a  postscript,  by  Dr.  Fitzedward 
Hall.  Vol.  I.,  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  lii.  and  348.  1868.  £1  Is. 

Eig-Yeda    SanMta.  —  A    COLLECTION    OF   ANCIENT   HINDU  HYMNS, 

constituting  the  second  Ashtaka,  or  Book,  of  the  Rig-Veda  ;  the  oldest  authority 
for  the  religious  and  social  institutions  of  the  Hindus.  Translated  from  the 
original  Sanskrit.  By  the  late  H.  H.  Wilson,  M.A.,  F.R.S.,  late  Boden  Pro- 
fessor of  Sanskrit  in  the  University  of  Oxford.  Vol.  II.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xxx. 
and  346.  1854.  21s. 

Eig-Yeda    SanMta.  —  A    COLLECTION   OF   ANCIENT    HINDU    HYMNS, 

constituting  the  third  and  fourth  Ashtakas,  or  Books,  of  the  Rig-Veda  ;  the 
oldest  authority  for  the  raligious  and  social  institutions  of  the  Hindus.  Trans- 
lated from  the  original  Sanskrit.  By  the  late  H.  H.  Wilson,  M.A.,  F.R.S.,  late 
Boden  Professor  of  Sanskrit  in  the  University  of  Oxford.  Vol.  III.  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.  xxiv.  and  525.  1857.  21s. 


SailMtar  —  A  COLISCTION  OF  ANCIENT  HINDI;  HYMNS, 
constituting  the  £rst  Ashtoka,  or  L'bok,  of  the  Rig-Veda  ;  the  oldest>authority 
for  the  religious  and  social  institutions  of?  the  Hindus.  Translated  from  the 
original  Sanskrit  by  the  late  H.  H.  Wi^on,  M.A.,  F.R.S.,  etc.,  late  Boden  Pro- 
fessor of  Sanskrit  in  the  University  of  Oxford  Edited  by  E.  B.  Cowell,  M.A., 
late  Principal  of  the  Sanskrit  College,  Calcutta,  and  now  Professor  of  Sanskrit  in 
the  University  of  Cambridge.  Vol.  1^.  8voT  cloth,  pp.  vi3.  and  314.  1866.  14*. 


78  Publications  of  Trabner  §  Co. 

i 

Riley. — MEDIAEVAL  CimoNitLis  OF  THE  CITY  OF  LONDON. — ChroniV 
cles  of  the  Mayors  and  Sheriffs  of  VLondon,  and  the  Events  which  happened  iii 
their  Days,  from  the  Year  A.D.  1188  to  A.D.  1274.  Translated  from  the 
original  Latin  of  the  "Liber  de  Antiquis  Legibus"  (published  by  the  Camdeiv 
Society),  in  the  possession  of  the  Corporation  of  the  City  of  London  ;  attributed 
to  Arnold  Fitz-The&rnar,  Alderman  of  London  ki  (Vthe  Reign  of  Henry  III. — 
Chronicles  of  London,  and  of  the  Marvels  therein,  between  the  Years  44 ' 
Henrf  III.,  A.D.  1260,  and  17  Edward  III.,  A.D  1343.  Translated  fiom  the 
original  Anglo-Norman  of  the  "  Croniques  de  London,"  preserved  in  the  Cot- 
tonian  Collection  (Cleopatra  <A.  iv.)  in  the  British  'Museum.  Translated,  with 
copious  Notes  and  Appendices,  by  Henry  Thomas  Riley,  M.A..  Clare  Hall, 
Cambridge ;  of  the  Inner*  Temple,  Barriste»:-,at-Law.  c  The  Two  Parts  bound  m 
one  handsome  Volume.  *4to.  cloth,  pp.  xii^'and  31,9.  1863.  ^1$*. 

Ditto.     Morocco,  gilt  edges,  pp.  xii.  and  319.     1863.     £1  l.v.    ,, 

Ditto.     Vellum,  red  edges,  pp.  xii.  and  319.     1863.     £1  l*t 

Ripley. — SACRFD  KHETORA;  ;  or,  Composition  an<?  Delivery  of  Ser- 
mons. By  Henry  I.  Ripley,  Professor  of  .Sacred  Rhetoric  and  Pastoral  Euties 
in  Xewton  Theological  Institute.  <To  which  arer.dded,  Hints  on  Extemporaneous 
Preaching.  By  Henry  Ware,  Jun.,  D.D.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  ,234.  1858.  f  1*.  G<l. 

River  Plate  (THE).  (South  Americk),  as  a  Field  for  Emigration  ;  its 
Geography,  Climate,  Agricultural  Capabilities,  aftl'  the  Facilities  affwded  for 
permanent  Settlement.  "With  Maps,  Third  edition. '  Revised  by  the  Legation  of 
the  Argentine  Republic.  8vo.  pp.  60,  sewed.  1867.  Is., 

Robertson, — PRIESTCRAFT.  By  F.  Kobertsort,  F.EM  Astron.  Soc., 
late  of  Royal  Engineers.  Part  I.  8vo.  cloth.  Second  edition,  pp.  181.  1867. 
4.s.  r 

Robertson, — Ax  EXPOSITION  OF  THE  BOOK  OF  GENESIS.  By  F. 
Robertson,  F.R.A.S.,  late  Royal  Engineers,  author  of  "  Priestcraft,"  etc.  8vo. 
boards,  pp.  viii.  and  262.  1868.  5*. 

Robinet, — NOTICE  sur  les  Travaux  et  la  Vie  D'Auguste  Comte. 
Par  le  Dr.  Robinet.  8s. 

Roche. — HISTOIRE  DE  FR4NCE ;  Depuis  les  Temps  les  Plus  Eecules. 
par  Antonin  Roche.  Troisieme  edition.  Two  volumes,  12mo.  sewed,  pp.  vii. 
504  and  519.  1867.  7s. 

Roche, — ENGLISH  PROSE  AND  POETRY.  Materials  for  Translation 
from  English  into  French.  By  Antonin  Roche.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  xi.  368. 
1867.  4*.  6d. 

Roche. — ABREGE  DE  LA  GRAMMAIRE  FRANCHISE.  Par  Antonin  Koche, 

ouvrage  dont  1' introduction  dans  les  Ecoles  publiques  a  ete  autorisee  par  arrete 
du  Ministre  de  1'lnstruction  publique.     12nio.,  pft.  vi.  and  132.     1861.     Is. 

ROChe, CORRIGE  DE  LA  SYNTAXE   DES  EXERCISES  STIR  LA  GRAMMAIRE 

FRAX^AISE.       Par    Antonin   Roche,   Directeur  de  1'Educational    Institute   de 
Londres,  Chevalier  de  la  Legi6n  d'honLeur.     3rd  ed.     12mo.,  pp.  140.     Is. 

ROChe, EXERCICES    SUR    L' ABREGE    fDa    LA    GRAMMAIRE    FRAJ'CAISE. 

I'ar  Antonip  Roche,  Chevalier  de  la  Legion  d'honn'eur.     2nd  ed.     12mo.,  pp.  vi. 
•    and  140.     1*. 

Roche. — EXERCICES  SUR  LAI.GRAMMAIRE  FRAX^AISE.  Par  Autonin 
Roche.  12mo.,  pp.  iv.  and  244. f,  }s.  Qd. 


Publications  of  Tr'dbner  fy  Co.  79 

j 

'Roche,— GTRAMMAIRE    FRA^AISE,   Oirjrage  adopte  pour  les  Ecoles 
publiqucs  par  arrete  <iA  Ministre  de  1' Instruction  publique  en  date  du  22  Aout, 
,     1859.     Par   Antoniu  Roche,  Directeur  de  1'Educational  Institute  de  Londres, 
'   Chevalier  de  la  Legion,  d'honneijr.     5th  ed.     12mo.,  pp.  208.     Is  6d. 

Roche, — HISTOIRE  DES,  PR'INCIPAUX  ECRIVAINS  *  FRA^AIS,  depuis 
1'origine  de  la  Litterature  jusqu'a  nos  jours,  par  Antonin  lloche,  Directeur  de 
I'Ed&cational  Institute  de  Londres.  2  vols.  12nio.  pp.  700.  1863.  6*.'* 

Poche, — LES  POETES  F>RAN<JAIS,  Eecueil  de  morceaux,  choisis  dans 
les  meillein^s  poetes  depuis  1'origine  de  la  litterature  franchise  jusqu'a  nos  jours, 
avec  une  notice  biograpnique  surnchaque  auteur,  pJr  Antonin  lloche,  I)irecteur 
de  1'Educational  Institute  d^  Londi'bs,  Chevalier  de  la  Legion  d'honneur  7th  ed. 
'augmentee. '  I2rnp.  pp\  532.  3*.  Qd. 

Roche.- — LES  PROS/^TEURS  FRA^AIS,  Recueil  de  morceaux  choisis 
da'ns  les  meilleurs  prosateurs  depuis  1'origiue  de,la  litterature  franchise  jusqu'a 
nos  jours  avec  une  Notice  biographique  sur  chaque  auteur  par  Antonin  Roche. 
Directeur  de  1'Educational  Institute  de  Londxes,  Chevalier  de  la  Legion 
d'h^nneur.  8th  ed.  aug-ment^e.  12mo.  pp0. 544.  1867.  4s. 


-THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  AND  JUSTIFICATION  OF  JOHANNES 
RONGE  (the  German  reformer),  translated  from  the  fifth  German  edition-,  by 
John  Lord,  A.M.  12ino.  sewed,  pp.  x.  and  84.  1856.  Is.  6d. 

Rowley, — A  PAPER  upon  the  Egg  of  ^Bpyornis  Maximus,  the 
Colossal  Bird  of  Madagascar.  By  George  Dawson  Rowley,  M.A.  8vo.  sewed, 
pp.15.  1864.  ^ls.  * 

Rowley, — TH^C  EEMAINS  of  Man  and  Extinct  Mammalian  Fauna, 
found  in  Eynesbury,  near  St.  Neots,  Huntingdonshire.  By  George  Dawson. 
Rowley,  M.A.,  F.Z.S.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  15.  1866.  Is. 

Rlissig,,  CENTRAL  ASIA,  AND  BRITISH  INDIA.  By  a  British  Subject. 
Pos '  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  48.  1865.  Is. 

Sain  f Petersburg,  Sights  of,  Book  First;  Fact,. .Feeling,  and 
Fr'  \  Wahrheit  und  Dichtung.  Svo.  pp.  76,  sewed.  1860.  2s.  Gd. 

THI  *  -  i  • 

SaT^0    \ — ELEMENTS  OF  ART  CRITICISM,  comprising  a  Treatise  on  the 

1       '    ^.es  of  Man's  Nature  as  addressed  by  Art ;  together  with  a  Historic  Sur- 

\ CA^16  Methods  of  Art-Execution  in  the  departments  of  Drawing,  Sculpture, 

Ai-ia  -£  ture,  Painting,  Landscape  Gardening,  and  the  Decorative  Arts.  Designed 
as  a  |gsV-book  for  Schools  and  Colleges,  and  as  a  Handbook  for  Amateurs  and 
Artisua.  'By  G.  "W.  Samson,  D.D.,  President  of  Columbia  College,  Washington 
D.C.  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  840.  1867.  16s. 

Sand, — MOLIERE.  A  Drf^ma  in  prose.  By  Greorge  Sand.  Edited, 
with  English  Notes  and  Notice  on  George  Sand,  by  Theodore  Karcher,  LL.B., 
of  the  Royal  Military  Academy  and  the  University  of  London.  12mo.  pp.  xx. 
and  170,  cloth.  1868.  3s.  6d. 

Sanitary  CONDITION  OF  NEW  YOUK.  "Report  of  the  Council  of 
Hygiene  and  PubDc  Health  of  t^ie  Citizens'  Association  of  New  York,  upon  the 
Sanitary  Condition'  of  the  City.  Published,  with  an  Introductory  Statement, 
by  Order  of  the  Council  of  the  Citizen's  Association.  Svo.  cloth/ pp.  cxliii.  and 
360.  Maps,  Plates.  1865.  25s. 

Sanitary  "  REFORM."     "  A  Model  Deputation!"     By  A  Member  of 

the  Sanitary  Reform  Association.     Post  Srsposewed,  pp.  §.     1866.     3d. 


80  Publications  of  Triibner  6f  Co. 


Santorin,  THE  KAIMENI  I^LAVrns.  From  Obsqrvations  by  K.  von' 
Fritsch,  W.  Reiss,  and  A.  Stiibel.  Translated  from*  the  German.  With  4 
Photographic  Maps.  Folio,  sewed,  pp.  8.  1867.  16.v.  ,.  , 

SartorillS.  —  MEXICO.  Landscapes  and  Popular  Sketches.  By  G. 
Sartorins.  Edited  iJy  Dr.  Gaspey,  with  Engravings  by  distinguished  Artists. 
from  original  Sketches,  by  Moritz  Rugendas.  4to.  clo^h  gilt,  pp.  vi.  and  202. 
1859.^18*.  ( 

Saxe,  —  THE  MASQUERADE  t  and  other  Poems,.  By  John  Godfrey 
Saxe.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  vii.  and  237.  1866.  5s. 

Saxe.  —  THE  POEMS  OE'  JOHN  GODFREY  SAXE,  Complete  in  one 
volume.  Crown  8vo.  cloth,  gilt  top,  pp.  xii.  and  466.  ^With  a  portrait  of  the 
author.  1868.  10s.  6d. 

Scandinavia  AND  GREAT  BRITAIN,  Comparative  ,Pist  of  the  Birds  of. 
Small  Folio,  pp.  18,  sewed.  1859.  Is. 

Scanzoni,  —  A  PRACTICAL  TREATISE  on  the  Diseases  of  the  Sermal 
Organs  of  Women.  By  PYofesso?  F.  W.  Von  «Scanzoni.  Translated  by  A."K. 
Gardner.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xxi.  and  669.  1861.  25s.-  , 

Sceptic.  —  AN  EXPOSITION  OF  SPIRITUALISM;  comprising  two  'Series 
of  Letters,  and  a  Review  of  the  "  Spiritual  Magazfcj.e,"  Xo.  20.  As  published  in 
in  the  "  Star  and  Dial."  With  Introduction,  Notes,  (,nd  Appendix.  By  Sceptic. 
8vo.  cloth,  pp.  330.  1862.  6s. 

Schefer.  —  THE  BISHOP'S  WIFE.  A  Tale  of  the  Papacy.  Translated 
from  the  German  of  Leopold  Schefer.  By  Mrs.  J.  R.'  Stodart:  12mo.  cloth,  pp. 
200.  1851.  2s.  6^. 

Schefer.  —  THE  ARTIST'S  MARRIED  LIFE  :  being  that  of  Albert  Diirer. 
For  devout  Disciples  of  the  Arts,  Prudent  Maidens,  as  well  as  for  the  Profit  and 
Instruction  of  all  Christendom,  given  to  the  light.  Translated  from  the  German 
of  Leopold  Schefer,  by  Mrs.  J.  R.  Stodart.  Post  8vo.  sewed,  t>-p.  98. 
1853.  Is. 

Schefer.  —  THE  LAYMAN'S  BREVIARY;  or,  Meditations  for  Every  -day 
in  the  Tear.  From  the  German  of  Leopold  Schefer.  By  C.  T.  Brookes.  pKuare, 
cloth,  gilt,  pp.  iv.  and  452.  -With  a  portrait  of  the  author.  1867.  10s.-  6^- 

Schoelcher,  —  DANGERS  TO  ENGLAND  OF  THE  ALLIANCE  WITH  T  HE  ^EN 
OF  THE  COLT-D'ETAT.  By  Victor  Schoelcher,  Representative  of  thie  *  ec-le. 
12mo.,  sewed,  pr>.  190.  1854.  2s.  6d. 

1'.    Al.  Cj. 

Schimmelfennig.  —  THE  WAR  BETWEEN  TURKEY  AND  ETT  ^  A 
Military  Sketch.  By  A.  Schimmelfennig.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  68.  1854.  5  %y 

Schlagintweit.  —  BUDDHISM  IN  TIBET  :  Illustrated  by  Literary 
Documents  and  Objects  of  Religious  Worship.  With  an  Account  of  the 
Buddhist  Systems  preceding  it  in  India.  By  Emil  Schlagintweit,  LL.D.  With 
a  folio  Atlas  of  20  Plates,  and  20  Tables  of  Xative  print  in  the  Text.  Royal 
8vo.,  pp.  xxiv.  and  404.  1863.  £2  2s. 


Tibet,  and  Turkistan,"  the  Third  Volume  of  H.,  A.,  and  R,  de  Schlagintweit' s 
"  Resxilts  of  a  Scientific  Mission  to  Irriia  and  High  Asia."  With  an  Atlas,  in 
imperial  folio,  of  Maps,  Panoramas,  and  Views.  Royal  4to.,  pp.  xxiv.  and  29o. 
1863.  £4. 


Publications  of  Triibner  ty  Co.  '        8 1 

'•  /    ' 

Schlagintweit. — EEPITLTS   OF  A  SCIENTIFIC    MISSION  TO  INDIA  AND 

HIGH  ASIA.  By  Hermann,  Adolphe,  and  Robert  de  Schlagintweit ;  undertaken 
\  between  the  yeai'5  1854  and  1858,  by  Order  of  the  Court  of  Directors  of  the 
Honourable  East  India  Company. 

The  Work  will  consist  of  5Tine  Volumes  of  Scientific  Text,  and  of  an  Atlas,  in 
Three  Volumes  Folio,  containing  Views  and  Maps,  with  explanatory  Letterpress. 

ll'ir  Majesty  Queen  ^Victoria  has  been  most  graciously  pleased  to  accept  the 
Dedication  of  the  Atlas.  ' 

Vols.  I.  to  IV.  now  ?eady  (Text  in  4to.,  Atlas  in  folio).  1861—1866. 
£4  4s.  each. 

Intending  Subscribers  may  cLtain  Prospectuses,  and  every  information 
required,  of  the^P^blishers.  •> 

Scbyarcz, — THE  FAILURE  OF  GEOLOGICAL  ATTEMPTS  MADE  BY  THE 
GREEKS  from  the  Easiest  Ages  down  to  the  Spoch  of  Alexander.  By  Julius 
Scnvarcz,"  F.G.S.  Revised  and  enlaced  edition.' 4to.  pp.  xx._and  154,  cloth. 
186g.  -10s.  Gd. 

.  Sdatep, — CATALOGUE  OF  A  COLLECTION  "'OF  AMERICAN  BIRDS  belong- 
ing to  Mr.  Philip  LinSley>  Sclater,  M.A.,  Th.  Doc.  F.R.S.,  Fellow  of  Corpus 
Christi  *  College,  Oxford ;  Secretary  to  the  Zoological  Society  of  London  ; 
Editor  of  "  The  Ibis."  8w3pp.  354,  and  20  coloured  Plates  of  Birds,  cloth. 
1862.  "£1  10*.  ^  ' 

Scott, — MEMOIRS  OF  LIEUT. -GENERAL  WINFIELD  SCOTT,  LL.D., 
late  Commander-in-Chief  of  the  United  States  Forces.  Written  by  Himself. 
With  two  Portraits.  2  vols.  crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xxii.  330  and  653.  1864.  16s. 

Scully, — BRAZFT,  ;  its  Provinces  and  Chief  Cities  ;  the  Manners  and 
Customs  of  the  People ;  Agricultural,  Commercial,  and  other  Statistics,  taken 
from  the  latest  Official  Documents  ;  with  a  variety  of  useful  and  entertaining 
knowledge,  both  for  the  Merchant  and  Emigrant.  By  William  Scully,  editor  of 
the  "  Anglo-Brazilian  Times."  Crown  8vn.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  398.  7*.  6d. 

Seabridge, — CONNECTED  POEMS.  By  Charles  Seabridge.  18mo. 
cloth,  pp.  138.  1866.  3s.  6d. 

Serf  (TiiE)  AND  THE  COSSACK  ;  or,  Internal  Slate  of  Eussia.  Second 
edition,  revised  and  enlarged.  12mo.,  sewed,  pp.  48.  1854.  Gd. 

Seyd, — CALIFORNIA  AND  ITS  EESOURCES.  A  Work  for  the  Merchant, 
the  Capitalist,  and  the  Emigrant.  By  Ernest  Seyd.  8vo.  cloth,  plates,  pp. 
168.  1858.  8s.  Gd. 

Shapuiji  Edalji, — A  DICTIONARY,  GUJARATI  AND  ENGLISH.  By 
Shapurji  Edalji.  Second  edition.  8vo.  cloth,  pp. xxiv.  and  874.  1868.  £1  Is. 

Shapurji  Edalji, — A  GRAMMAR   OF  THE   GUJARATI  LANGUAGE.     By 

Shapurji  Edalji.     12mo.  cloth,  pp,  128.     10s.  6d. 

Shaw. — ODONTALGIA,  commonly  called  Tooth- Ache ;  its  Causes, 
Prevention  and  Cure--  By  S.  Pardons  Shaw.  12mo.  pp.  xi.  and  258,  cloth. 
1868,  is.  Gd.  „  ,?  j 

Sherring. — THE  SACRED  CITY  OF  THE  HI:-TDUS  :  an  Account  of 
Benares  in  Ancient  and  Modern  Times.''  By  Jhe  Rev.  M.  A.  Sherring,  A.M, 
LL.B.,  and  prefaced  with  an  Introduction  by  Iitz-Edward  Hall,  Esq.,  D.C.L. 
Shortly.  In  a  handsome  8vo.  Volume  of  ab^u^  300  pagc?>  with  10  Full-page 
Woodcut  Illustrations  from  Photographb,  Pp.  xxxvi.  and  388,  cloth.  1868.  21s. 


82        (.  Publications  of  Trillner  fy  Co. 

Simon,  —  THE  MINISTRY  OF  ORIGINAL  WORDS  IN  ASSERTING  AND 
DEFENDING  THE  TRUTH.  By  B.  A.  Simon.  8vo.  cloth*  pp.  123.  1865.  4*. 

Simonides,  —  zJt6«Xeou9  &a/J,6pov  rov  fcapv&riBov  77  ^p}  vyisivwv 
tTriaroXr),  KM  Tpo^iAou  irpaZiaSov  vXAapijttE&c  ifr^ava.  (Dickies'  Letter  on 
Hygiene  and  Trophilus  Eecipes.  Edited  by  Dr.  'Const.  Simonides).  Square 
12mo.  pp.  24,  sewed.  1865.  Is. 

\ 

Simonides.—  '.E7rfa-ToA.t/ze«a  irepl  lepoy'XvfaKwv  'ypa^arwv  Sia- 
Tpi/3t.  (A  brief  Dissertation.  on  Hieroglyphic  Letters.  By  Constantine  Simonides, 
Ph.  D.)  8vo.  pp.  58,  sejved.  1863.  2"*.  Q:l, 


Simonides,  —  'OpdoSo^wv    e\\r)va)v    OeoXoyifcai!    ypapal 

(A.  Xikolaos,  Bishop  of  Mothone  ;  B.  Genniadios,  Archbishop  of  Constantinople  ; 
C.  Gregorios,  Archbishop  of  Thessalonich  ;  D.  Georgio*.'  Kressios).  Edited  by 
Constantine  Simonides,  Ph.  'D.  Svo.  pp,240,  cloth  (with  portrait  oi-jSTicoiaos). 
1865.  10s. 

Simonides.  —  CONCERNING  HORTTS  OF  NIL^POLIS,  the  Hierogramma- 
tist  of  his  native  place,  son  of  Amonthis  and  Thessals.  W;th  notices  of  ris  works. 
By  Constantine  Simonides,  Ph.  D.  4to.  pp.  16,  sewed.  1863.  2s.  6d>. 

V1 
Simonides.—  FAC-SIMILES  of  Certain  Porti»-is  of  the  Gospel  of  St. 

Matthew,  and  of  the  Epistles  of  St.  James  and  Jiule.  Written  on  Papyrus  in 
the  hrst  century,  and  preserved  in  the  Egyptian  Museum  of  Joseph  Mayer,  Esq., 
Liverpool.  Edited  and  annotated,  etc.,  etc.,  by  C<,istantine  Simonides,  Ph.  D. 
Folio,  pp.  80,  with  numerous  fac-similes,  sewed.  1862.  £1  11s.  6d. 

f 

Simonides,  —  REPORT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  ROYAL  SOCIETY  OF 
LITERATURE  on  some  of  the  Mayer  Papyri  and  the  Palimpsest  MS.  of  Uranius 
belonging  to  M.  Simonides.  With  Letters  from  MM.  Pertz,  Ehrenberg,  and 
Dindorf.  Svo.  pp.  27,  sewed.  1863.  Is. 

Simonides.  —  THE   PERIPLTJS    OF   HANNON,  King  of  the  Karchedo- 

niaiis.  Concerning  the  Lybian  part  of  the  Earth  beyond  the  Pillars  of  Heracles, 
which  is  dedicated  to  Kroiios,  the  greatest  God,  and  to  all  the  Gods  dwelling 
with  him.  4to.  pp.  82,  and  two  fac-similes,  sewed.  1864.  10s: 

Simpson.  —  AN  INTRODUCTION  TO  THE  PHILOSOPHY  OF  SHAKESPEARE'S 
SONNETS.  By  Richard  Simpson.  Crown  Svo.  pp.  Svo,  cloth.  1868.  3s.  Qd. 

Smart.  —  AN  ADDRESS  to  Soldiers  on  Leaving  England  for  Foreign 
Service.  By  Newton  Smart,  M.A.  Sixth  edition.  12mo.  pp.  30.  1866.  3d. 

Smith.  —  REVIEWS  AND  "ESSAYS  FOR  THE  'MILLION,  from  Genesis  to 
Revelations.  By  Brooke  Smith,  Esq.,  Stoke  Bishop,  Gloucestershire.  Fcap. 
Svo.  pp.  160,  cloth.  1868.  3*.  6d. 

Smith,  —  LOCAL     SELF-GOVERNMENT    AND     CENTRALIZATION.      The 

Characteristics  of  each  ;  and  its  Practical  Tendencies  as  affecting  Social, 
Moravi,  and  Political  Welfare  and  ProgVess.  Including  Comprehensive  Outlines 
of  the  English  Constitution.  ,  With  copious  Index.  By  J.  Toulmin  Smith, 
Esq.,  Barrister-at-Law.  Post  Svo.  ,tloth,  pp.  viii.  and  409.  1851.  5s. 

r 

Smith,  —  SOCIAL  ASPECTS.^  ^  By  John  Stores  Smith,  author'  of 
"  Mirabeau,"  a  Lii'e  History.  I'ost  8ro.  cloth,  pp.  iv.  and  258.  1850.  2s.  6d. 


Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co.  >          83 

Smith.. — THE  COMMON  NATURE  OF  if  EPIDEMICS  ;  also  Eemarks  on 
Contagion  and  Quarantine.  By  South-wood  Smith,  M.D.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  vi. 

and  130.     1866.H   3s.  6d. 

.  < 

Smith, — THE  DIVINE  GOVERNMENT.  By  Soutiwood  Smith,  M.D. 
Fifth  Edition.  Crown  LVo.  cloth,  pp.  xii.  and  276.  1866.  6s.  ' 

Sollftlg, — DIUTISKA  :    ,?an   Historical   and   Critical   Survey    of  the 
Literature  of  Germany,  ,from  the  Earliest  Period  to  the  death  of  Gothe.     By 
'   Gustav  Soiling.     8vo.  pp.  xviii.  and  368.     1863.     IQs.  6d. 

i  »  '< 

Soiling, — SFLECT    PASSAGES'  RROM   THE  WORKS    OF    SHAKESPEARE. 
Translated.  a^d^'Coll^ted/  German  and  English.     By  Gustav  Soiling.     12mo. 
'  cloth,  pp.  155.    -4366.  3s.  6d.  f 

Somerset, — UNE  CE^TAINE  D'INVENTION§,J  OUVRAGE  ECRIT  EN  1655, 
par  Edouard  Somerset,  Marquis  a£  "Worcester,  traduit  en  'Fra^ais  pour  la 
premiere  fois,  sur  la  texte  de  la<»premiere  edition' (Londres,  1663),  et  editc  par 
Henry  Dircks,  C.E.,  LL.D.,  J.R.S.E.  M.tf.S.L.,  etc.,  auteur  de  "  The  Life  of 
the*  Marquis  of  'WVjces't^r,"  "  Worcesteriana,"  etc.,  etc.  12mo.  pp.  62,  sewed, 
1868.',  Is. 

Someirille, — EROS.  Aperies  of  Connected  Poems.  By  Lorenzo 
Somerville.  ISmo.  cloth* pp.  142.  1866.  3s.  &d. 

Sophocles. — A  GLOSSARY  OF  LATER  AND  BYZANTINE  G-REEK.  By 
E.  A.  Sophocles*  4to.,  p*p.  iv.  and  624.  1860.  £2  8s. 

Sophocles, — POMAIC,     OR     MODERN     GREEK     GRAMMAR.       By    E. 

A.  Sophocles.     8vo.,  half-bound,  pp.  xxviii.  and  196.     1866.     7*.  Gd. 

Spaggiari, — A  LATIN,  ENGLISH*,  ITALIAN,  AND  POLYGLOT  ANTHOLOGY, 

with  a  variety  of  Translations  and  Illustrations.  To  be  published  once  a  year  ; 
designed  to  contribute  to  the  cause  of  classical  learning,  as  well  as  to  forward 
the  cultivation  of  the  English  language  and  literature  in  Italy?  and  that  of  the 
Italian  in  Great  Britain,  America,  and  Australia.  Edited  by  John  Spaggiari. 
Oct.  1861.  No.  1,  oblong  4to,  sewed,  pp.  10.  1831.  2s.  6d. 

Spear. — ON  THE  POSITION  OF  WOMEN.  By  Mrs.  J.  H.  Spear.  12nio. 
limp,  pp.  37.  1866.  Is. 

Spellen, — THE  INNER  LIFE  OF  THE  HOUSE  OF  COMMONS.  By  J. 
N.  Spellen.  12mo.  sewed.  1854.  6d. 

Spinoza's  TRACTATUS  THEOLOGICO-POLITICUS  :  A  Critical  Inquiry 
into  the  History,  Purpose,  an-i  Authenticity  of  the  Hebrew  Scriptures ;  with  the 
Eight  to  Free  Thought  and  Free  Discussion  asserted,  and  shown  to  be  not  only 
consistent,  but  necessarily  bound  iip  with  True  Piety  and  Good  Government. 
By  Benedict  de  Spinoza.  From  the  Latin.  With  an  Introduction  and  Notes  by 
the  Editor.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  386.  1862. ->  10s.  6tf. 

Spinoza. — TRACTATES  THEOLOOICO-POLITICUS.  A  Theological  and 
Political  Treatise  \fr  a  Serie »  of  Essays,  showing  that  freedom  of  thought  and  o  f 
discussion  may  not  only  be  granted  with  safety  to  .7eligiou  and  the  peace  of  the 
state,  but  that  both  the  public  peace  and>piety  are  '  endangered  when  such  free- 
dom is  denied.  By  Benedict  de  Spinoza.  Fror>J  the  Latin,  with  an  introduction 
and  note  by  the  Editor.  Second  edition,  revised  and  corrected.  8vo.  pp.  360. 
£In  the  press).  -> 


84  Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co. 

Spmner. — DR.    KARL    VON    &PRUNER'S    HISTOHICO-GEOGRAPHICAL 
HAND-ATLAS,  containing  26  Coloured  Maps  engraved  on  copper,  22  of  which  are 
devoted  to  the  General  History  of  Europe,  and  4  are  specially  illustrative  of  the  . 
History  of  the  British.  Isles.    Oblong,  cloth-lettered,  15s.,  or  half-bound  morocco, 
1861.  £11*. 

Stevens^— SEASONING  FOR  A  SEASONER  ;  or,  the  New  Gradus  ad 
Parnassum;  a  Satire.  By  Brook  B.  Stevens.  Svo.^loth,  pp.  48.  1861.'  3*. 

Stewart, — SORGHUM  AND  "ITS  PRODUCTS.  An  accourt  of  recent 
investigations  concerning  H*tie  value  of  sorghum  in  srgar  production,  together 
with  a  description  of  a  neV  method  of  maHng  sugar  and  refined  syrup  from  this 
plant.  Adapted  to  common  use,  by  F.  L.  Stewart".  Po~t  8vo.  j.p.  xiv.  and  240, 
cloth.  1867.  6s. 

o 

Stille. — THERAPEUTICS  AND'  MATERIA  MEDICA  :  tfSytematic  Treatise 
on  the  Action  and  Uses  of  Sledicinal  Agants.  By  Alfred  Stiil6j  M.'D.  Second 
Edition,  revised,  2  vols.  8vo.,  cloth,  pp.  xv.  776,  and  viii.  819.  1864.  £2  8s. 

Stoddard, — GRAMMAR  OF  THE  MODERN  SYRIAC-  LANGUAGE  as  spoken 
in  Oroomah,  Persia,  and  in  Koordistan.  By  Rev.  D.  T.  S\;cddard.  8vo."  boards, 
pp.  180.  1865.  7s.  &d. 

v 

Storer, — FIRST  OUTLINES  OF  A  DICTIONARY  OF  SOLUBILITIES  OF 
CHEMICAL  SUBSTANCES.  By  Frank  H.  Storer.  Indispensable  to  the  practical 
chemist.  Eoyal  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xi..  and  713.  1864.  £1  11s.  Qd. 

Story, — COMMENTARIES  on  the  Law  of  Promissory  Notes,  and 
Guaranties  of  Notes,  and  Cheques  on  Banks  and  Bankers.  With- occasional  illus- 
trations from  the  commercial  law  of  the  nations  of  continental  Europe.  By 
Joseph  Story,  LL.D.,  one  of  the  Justices  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  the  linked 
States,  and  Dane  Professor  of  Law  in  Harvard  University.  8vo.  pp.  xliv.  and 
740.  1868.  £1  11s.  Gel. 

Story, — LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  JOSEPH  STORY,  Associate  Justice  of 

the  Supreme  Court  of  the  United  States,  and  Dane  Professor  of  Law  at  Harvard 
University.  Edited  by  his  Son  "William  "W.  Story.  2  vols.,  royal  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.  xx.  and  1,250.  1851.  ~£1. 

Story, — THE  AMERICAN  QUESTION.  By  William  W.  Story.  8vo. 
sewed  pp.  68.  1862.  Is. 

StOlirton, — POSTAGE  STAMP  FORGERIES  ;  or,  the  Collector's  Fade 
Mecum.  Containing  accurate  descriptions  of  nearly  700  Forgeries,  exclusive  of 
Essays  and  chymically  changed  Stamps.  By  J.  M.  Stourton.  12mo,  sewed, 
pp.  viii.  and  66.  1865.  Is. 

Stratmann, — A  DICTIONARY  OF  THE  ENGLISH  LANGUAGE,  compiled 
from  the  writings  of  the  13th,  14th,  and  15th  Centuries,  by  Francis  Henry 
Stratmann.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  x.  and  694.  1867.  25s. 

Stratmann, — AN  OLD  ENGLISH  POEM  OF  THE  OWL.  AND  THE  NIGHTIN- 
GALE.? Edited  by  Francis  Henry  Stratir  ann.     8vo.  cloth,  pp.  60.     186^.  3s. 
i  •  ^ 

Strauss.— THE  OPINIONS  QJ  PROFESSOR  DAVID  F.  STRAUSS,  as 
embodied  in  his  Letter  to  the  Burgomaster  Hinzel,  Professor  Orelli,  and  Pro- 
fessor Hizig  at  Zurich.  Wuh  an  Address  to  the  People  of  Zurich.  By  Pro- 
fessor Orelli.  Trar slated  from  tt3  Second  Editioir^df  the  original.  8vo.  sewed, 
pp.  31.  1844.  If. 


Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co.  >          85 

— THE  EIVAL  EACES;    or  the  Sons   of  Joel.       A   Legendary 
•   Romance.     By  Eugene  Sue.     3  vols.,  post  8vo.  cloth.     1863.     £\  Us  6d. 

M  > 

Sullivantj — ICONES  MUSCORUM,  or  Figures  and  pescriptions  of  most 
of  those  Mosses  peculiar  ,tt?  Eastern  North  America,  which  have  not  heen  hereto- 
fore figured.  By  William  S.  Sullivant,  LL.D.  With  129  copper-plgles.  8vo. 
pp>  216,  cloth.  1864.  £4  4s. 

•Sullivant,— UNITED   STATES  EXPLORING'   EXPEDITION,    during  the 
years  18??,   1839,   18^0,   1841,   1842,  under  the 'Command  of  Charles  Wilkes, 
United  States  Navy.  Botany.  M^ci.     By  "William' S.  Sullivant.     Folio,  pp.  32. 
With  26  foliq,  plates,  ,half  iiiorocco.   1859.     £10  10.9. 
•v» 

Slirya  SIDDHANT^  (Translation  of  the);  a  Text-Book  of  Hindu 
Astronomy;  with  Nbtes,  and  an  Appendix,  oontaining  additional  notes  and 
tables,  calculation^  of  eclipses,  a  Stellar  map,  and  indexes.  '  By  Rev.  Ebenezer 
Burgess,  formerly  missionary  of  >*he  A.B.C.F.M.  in  India ;  assisted  by  the  com- 
^mittee  of  publication  of  the  American  Oriental  Society.  8vo.  pp.  iii.  and  356, 
Boards.  I860.  15.,'.  n  , 

Swaab. — FIBROUS  SU^ANCES — INDIGENOUS  AND  EXOTIC  :  their 
Nature,  Varieties,  and  Treatment,  considered  with  a  view  to  render  them  further 
useful  for  Textile  and  other  purposes.  By  S.  L.  Swaab.  8vo,  sewed,  pp.  56. 
1864.  2*. 

Swanwick,  —  SELECTIONS  FROM  THE  DRAMAS  OF  GOETHE  AND 
SCHILLER.  Translated  with  Introductory  Remarks,  by  Anna  Swanwick.  8vo. 
cloth,  pp.  xvi.  Ad  290.  1846.  6s. 

Taft, — A  PRACTICAL  TREATISE  ON  OPERATIVE  DENTISTRY.  By  J. 
Taft,  Professor  of  Operative  Dentistry  in  the  Ohio  College  of  Dental  Surgery. 
8vo.  pp.  384.  With  80  illustrations.  Cloth.  1859.  16s. 

Taney, — HABEAS  CORPUS.  The  Proceedings  in  the*  Case  of  John 
Merryman,  of  Baltimore  County,  Maryland,  before  the  Honourable  Roger  Brooke 
Taney,  Chief  Justice  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  the  United  States.  8vo.  sewed, 
pp.  24.  1861.  1*. 

Tayler, — A  EETROSPECT    OF    THE   EELIGIOUS    LIFE   OF  ENGLAND 
or,  the  Church,  Puritanism,  and  Free  Inquiry.     By  J.  J.  Taylor,   B.A.     New 
Revised  Edition.     Large  post  8vo.,  cloth,  pp.  xii.  and  330.     1853.     7s.  6d. 

Taylor, — TAYLOR'S  SYSTEM  OF  SHORTHAND  WRITING.  Edited  by 
Matthias  Levy,  author  of  v» The  History  of  Shorthand  Writing."  8vo.  pp.  iv. 
and  16,  limp  cloth.  1862.  Is.  &d. 

Taylor. — THE  CLAIM    OF  ENGLISHWOMEN  TO   THE   SUFFRAGE  CON- 
STITUTIONALLY CONSIDERED.     By  Helen  Taylor.     Reprinted  from  the  "West- 
minster Review."  ,1  8vo.  pp.  16,  jewed.     1867.     Id. 
-j  ^  i 

Taylor. — THE  PICTURE  OF  ST.  JOHN%  Bys  Bayard  Taylor.  12mo 
cloth,  pp.  vii.  and  220.  1866.  7*.  6^ 

. — THE   POEMS  ,OF   BAYARD  TAYLOR.      Portrait.     Blue  and 
Gold  Series.     Third  Series.     24mo.  <jloth,  g^lt  edges,  pp.\iii.  and  419.  1865.  5s. 


86  .  Publications  of  Triibner  fy  Co. 

»        ». 

Technological  DICTIONARY  :  French — G-erman — English  ;  containing 

the  Technical  Terms  used  in  Arts  and  Trades,  Civil,  Military,  and  Naval  Archi- 
tecture, Bridges  and  Roads,  Railways,  Mechanics,  construction  of  Machines, 
Artillery,  Navigation,  Mines  and  Smelting  Works,  Mathematics,  Physics, , 
Chemistry,  Mineralogy,  etc.,  etc.  Edited  by  C.  Runtpf  and  0.  Mothes';  preceded 
by  a  Preface  by  Charles  Karmarsch,  Chief  Director  of  the  Polytechnic  School  of 
Hanoverr  In  one  vol.  8vo.  pp.  vi.  and  590,  cloth.  1868.  'lOs.  &d. 

Terrien  and  Saxton, — LIBERIEN  HAG  AVIELE^  ;  or,  the  Catholic 
Epistles  and  Gospels  for  the  day  up  to  Ascension.  Translated  for  the  first  time  e 
into  the  Brehonec  of  Brittav,f .  Also,  in  three.parallel  columns,  a  new  version  of 
the  same  Breizouner  (commonly  called  Breti?/!  'and  Armorican)  ;  p.  version  into 
Welsh,  mostly  new  and  closely  resembling  the  Bretfun  ;  a.nd  a-vevsiqn  Gaelic,  or 
Manx,  or  Cernaweg,  with  illustrative  articles,  by  Christoll  Tpjarien  and  Charles' 
Waring  Saxton,  D.D.,  Christ  Church,  Oxford.  The  penitential  psalms  arr  alst/ 
added.  Oblong  Folio,  pp.  156,  se"  wed.  1868.  5s. 

Tetraglot. — NE-V#  UNIVERSAL  DICTIONARY  OF  THE  ENGLISH,  FRENCH, 
ITALIAN,  AND  GERMAN*  LANGUAGES,  arranged  after  a  new  system.  Small  8vo. 
cloth.  7s.  6d.  .  .1 

Texas  ALMANAC  (THE)  FOR  1868,  with  Federal  and'  8tate  Statistics; 
historical,  descriptive,  and  biographical  sketches,  <£c.,  relating  to  Texas.  8vo. 
pp.  314,  sewed.  1868.  3*.  $ 

Theatre  FRA^AIS  MODERNE.  A  Selection  of  Modern  French  Plays ; 
Edited  by  the  Rev.  P.  H.  Ernest  Brette, '  B.D.,  Head  Master  of  the  French 
School  in  Christ's  Hospital;  Charles  Cassal,  LL.D.,  Professor  in  University 
College,  London ;  and  Theodore  Karcher,  LL.B.,  of  the  Royal  Military  Academy, 
Woolwich  ;  former  and  present  examiners  in  the  University  of  t'ondon,  and  for 
the  Civil  Service  of  India.  First  Series,  in  one  vol.  crown  8vo.  cloth.  6*. 
Containing : — 

CHARLOTTE  CORDAY,  a  Tragedy.  By  F.  Ponsard.  Edited  with  English  Notes 
and  Notice  on  Ponsard,  by  Professor  C.  Cassal,  LL.D.  of  University 
College,  London.  Pp.  xii.  and  134. 

DIANE,  a  Drama  in  verse.  By  Emile  Augier.  Edited  with  English  Notes  and 
Notice  on  Augier,  by  Theodoie  Karcher,  LL.B.,  of  the  Royal  Military  Academy 
and  the  University  of  London.  Pp.  xiv.  and  145. 

LE  VOYAGE  A  DIEPPE,  a  Comedy  in  prose.  By  WafFlard  and  Fulgence.  Edited, 
with  English  Notes,  by  the  Rev.  P.  H.  Ernest  Brette,  B.D.,  of  Christ's  Hospital 
and  the  University  of  London.  Pp.  104. 

The  Boke  OF  NURTURE.  By  John  Eussell,  about  1460 — 1470  Anno 
Domini.  The  Boke  of  Kernynge.  By  Wynkj-n  de  Worde,  Anno  Domini  1513. 
The  Boke  of  Nurture.  'By  Hugh  Rhodes,  Anno  Domini  1577.  Edited  from  the 
Originals  in  the  British  Museum  Library,  by  Frederick  J.  Furnivall,  M.A., 
Trinity  Hall,  Cambridge,  Member  of  Council  of  the  Philological  and  Early 
English  Text  Societies.  4to.  half-morocco,  gilt  top,  pp.  xix.  and  146,  28,  xxviii. 
and  56.  1867.  &\  11*.  6d. 

The  Derbyites  AND  THE  COALITION.  Parliamentary , Sketches.  Being 
a  second  edition  of  the  "  History  of  the  S^essWi  1852 — 1853."  12mo.  pp.  222, 
cloth.  1854.  2s.  6d. 

The  TRUE  INTERPRETATION  OF  THE  AMERICAN  CIVIL  WAR,  and  of 

England's  Cotton  Difficulty  or  fjavery,  from  a  different  Point  of  View,  showing 
the  relative  Responsibilities  of (i America  and  Gre?,t  Britain.  By  Onesimus 
Secundus.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  iv.  and  47.  A863.  1*. 


Publications  of  Tr'dbner  fy  Co.  t          87 

'  The  Vision  OF  WILLIAM  CONCERNING  PIERS  PLOWMAN,  together  with 
Vita  cle  Dowel,  Dobot  et  Dobest,  setfundum  wit  ot  resoun.     By  William  Lang- 

-,       land  (about  136^1380  anno  domini).     Edited  from  numerous  Manuscripts,  with 
Prefaces,  Notes,   and  a  Glossary.     By  tbe  Rev.  Walter  W.  Skeat,  M.A.     Pp. 
xliv.  and'loS,  cloth.     1867,,     Yemon  Text ;  Text  A.  Is.  -&d. 
i 

Seta  (fi)  AeiTovpyia  TOV  ev  dyiois  Trdrpos  rjfAcov  'Iwdvyov  TOV 
XpvaoffTOfjiov.  HapaQpatflfltTo.  Kara  TO  Ktijtttoov  TO  tuSoOtv  tyicpiati  rijg  itpaf 
avvoBov  TOV  j3afft\eiov  rf]G"E\\aSoc;.  8vo.  pp. 76,  cloth.  1865.  3*.  Qd. 

Tliom, — Srr.  PAUL'S  ^PISTLES  TO  THE  CORTINTHIANS.  An  attempt 
to  convoy  tljeir  Spirit  and  Significance.  By  the  Rev.  John  Hamilton  Thoin. 
Post  Svo.  clo.'/h, '.pp.  371.  and  408.  1851.  7s. 

Thon\as. — A  COLLECTION  OF  SOM3  OF  THE  MISCELLANEOUS  ESSAYS  ON 
ORIENTAL  SUBJECT^  ^Published  on  various  occasions.)  By  EdwardThomas,  Esq. , 
late  of  the  East  India  Company' s  B^yngal  Civil  yervice.  Contents — On  Ancient 
lydijfti  Weights;  The  Earliest  Indian  Coinage;  Bactrian  Coins;  On  the- 
Identity  of  Xandrames  and-jKraVtanda ;  ?Note  on  Indian  Numerals;  On  the 
'  Cosis  of  the  Gupta>  Hynasty;  Early  Armenian  Coins;  Observations  Intro- 
ducWry  to  the  Explanation  of  the  Oriental  Legends  to  be  found  on  certain 
Imperial  and  Partho-Persian  Coins  ;  Sassanian  Gems  and  early  Armenian  Coins  ; 
Note§  on  Certain  unpab&lhed  Coins  of  the  Sassanidoe  ;  An  Account  of  Eight 
Kufic  Coins ;  Supplementary  Contributions  to  the  Series  of  the  Coins  of  the 
Kings  of  Ghazni ;  Supplementary  Contributions  to  the  Series  of  the  Coins  of  the 
Patan  Sultans  of  Hindustan ;  The  Initial  Coinage  of  Bengal,  introduced  by  the 
Muhammadans^on  the  Conquest  of  the  country,  A.H.  600-800,  A.D.  1203-1397. 
In  one  vol.  Svo.  half-bound,  gilt  edges.  1868. 

Thomas. — EARLY  SASSANIAN  INSCRIPTIONS,  SEALS  AND  COINS.  By 
Edward  Thomas,  Esq.,  late  of  the  East  India  Company's  Bengal  Service.  Svo. 
pp.  viii.  and  138.  With  numerous  woodcuts,  a  photograph  of  the  Hfijuilu'ul 
inscription,  and  a  copper-plate  of  the  Sassanian  coins.  Cloth,  1868.  7s.  6^. 

Thomson, — INSTITUTES  OF  THE  LAWS  OF  CEYLON.  By  Henry 
Byerley  Thomson,  Second  Puisne  Judge  of  the  Supreme  Coiwt  of  Ceylon.  In 
2  vols.,  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  xx.  647,  and  pp.  xx.  713.  With  Appendices,  pp.  71. 
1866.  £2  2s. 

,  Thomson, — THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  AN  ARTIZAN.     By  Christopher 
Thomson.     Post  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  xii.  and  408.     1847.     6s. 

Thoreau, — A  WEEK  ON  THE  CONCORD  AND  MERRIMACK  EIVERS. 
By  Henry  D.  Thoreau.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  413.  1862.  7*.  Gd. 

Thoreau, — THE  MAINE  WOODS.      By  Henry  D.  Thoreau.      12mo. 

cloth,  pn.  vi.  and  328.     1864.    7s.  Gd. 

Thorean,— EXCURSIONS.     12mo.  cloth,  pp.  319.     1864.     7s.  6d. 

Thoreau, — A  YANKEE  IN  CANADA  ;  with  An ti- Slavery  and  Reform 
Papers.  By  Henry  D.  Thoreau.  12ru'o.  cloth;  pp.  286.  1866.  7s.  6^. 

Thoreau. — LETTERS  TO  VARIOUS  PERSONS.  By  Henry  D.  Thoreau. 
Edited  by  RalphTWaldo  Bmerson.  ^16mo.  cloth,  Pp.  229.  1865.,  7:1.  Grf. 

A  series  of  interesting  letters  selected   by  Mr.  Eniferson.'with  an  appendix  containing  nine 
charming  poems.  •> 

Thoreau. — WALDEN.  ,  By  Henry  D.  Thoreau.  12mo.  cloth, 
pp.  357.  1864.  7s.  6d. 

'  ' 


88  Publications  of  Triibner  ty  Co. 

i. 

Thoughts  OF  A  LIFETIME  ;  or,  iny  Mind — its  contents.     An  epitome  ••' 
of  the  leading  questions  of  the  day.     By  the   author  ^f  "  Utopia  at  Home." 
Crown  8vo.  pp.  ix.  and  220,  cloth.     1868.     3s.  M. 

Thoughts  ON  KELIGION  AND  THE  BIBLE.  °By  a  Layman,  an  M-.A.  of 
Trinity  College,  Dublin.  Second  edition,  revised''a,nd  enlarged.  CrowJi  8vo. 
pp.  x.  and  42,  sewed.  1865.  Is.  ^ 

Thoughts  ON  THE  ATHANASIAN  CREED,  ETC.  »By  a  Layman.  Itimo. 
cloth,  pp.  vi.  and  75.  1866.  ,  2s.  i 

Three  EXPERIMENTS  OF  GIVING.  Within  the  Means.  'Up  to  the 
Means.  Beyond  the  Mean*.  Fcap.  8vo.,  ornamental  cover  and  gill  edges,  pp.  86. 
1848.  Is.  ^  »' , % 

Ticknor, — A  HISTORY  OF  SPANISH  LITERATURE.  Entirely  r*3- 
written.  By  George  Tickncp.1  3  vols.  crown  8vo.  p£.  xxiv.  486,  ,xiii.  s06, 
xiv.  524,  cloth.  -  1863.  £1  4s.  <• 

Tolhausen, — A  SYNOPSIS  OF'  THE  PATENT  LAWS  OF  VARIOUS 
COUNTRIES.  Comprising  the  following  heads: — 1.( Law,, Date,  and  where  re- 
corded; 2.  Kinds  of  Patents ;  3.  Previous  Examination1-;  4.  Duration;  5. 
Government  Fees;  6.  Documents  Required,  and^.here  to  be  left;  7.  Working 
and  Extension ;  8.  Assignments;  9.  Specifications,  Inspection,  and  Copies  of;  10. 
List  of  Patents  delivered  ;  11.  Specifications  Published ;  12.  Originals  of  Speci- 
fications (Models).  By  Alexander  Tolhausen,  Ph.  D.,  Sworn  Translator  at  the 
Imperial  Court  of  Paris,  Author  of  a  Technological  .Dictionary  in  the  English, 
French,  and  German  Languages,  etc .  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  31.  T357.  Is. 

Torreus. — LANCASHIRE'S  LESSON  :  or,  the  Need  of  a  Settled  Policy 
in  Times  of  Exceptional  Distress.  By  W.  T.  M.  Torrens,  Author  of  "  The 
Industrial  History  of  Free  Nations,"  "  The  Life  of  Sir  James  Graham,"  etc. 
Crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  191.  1864.  3s.  Qd. 

Toscani. — ITALIAN  CONVERSATIONAL  COURSE.  A  new  Method  of 
Teaching  the  Italian  Language,  both  Theoretically  and  Practically.  By  Giovanni 
Toscani,  Professor  of  the  Italian  Language  and  Literature  in  the  City  of  London 
College,  Royal  Polytechnic 'institution,  etc.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  249. 
1867.  5s. 

Tossvill- — THE  BRITISH  AND  AMERICAN  EEADY-EECKONER  :  con- 
sisting of  Tables  showing  the  equivalent  values  in  Currency  and  Sterling  at  any 
rate  for  Exchange,  of  the  following  articles: — PRODUCE,  comprising  butter, 
cheese,  bacon,  hams,  lard,  tallow,  grease,  hops,  seeds,  tobacco,  sugar,  beeswax,  or 
any  article  whereof  the  Standard  is  the  pound  in  America  and  the  cwt.  (of 
112  Ibs.)  in  the  British  Isles,  with  a  list  of  net  freights.  Also  cotton  per  Ib. — 
FLOUR,  BEEF  AND  PORK,  or  any  article  sold  in  both  countries  by  the  same 
Standard. — WHEAT  transferred  from  the  bushel  of  60  Ibs.  to  quarter  of  480  Ibs. ; 
likewise  the  equivalent  value  of  the  quarter  and  cental. — INDIAN  CORN  trans- 
ferred from  the  bushel  of  56  ( Ibs.  to  the  quarter  of  480  Ibs.  Also  freights  of 
wheat  and  corn. — OIL  CAKE  AND  DYE  WOODS,  allowing,  where  necessary,  for 
the  difference  between  the  2,000  Ibs.  and  th^  gross  ton. — (HEFINED  PETROLEUM 
transferred  from  the  small  or  wine  into<"'the  imperial  gallcn. — CRUDE  "PETRO- 
LEUM transferred  from  the  small  gallon  into  the  tun  of  252  imperial  or  303  small 
gallons.  Also,  Sterling  Commission  or  Brokerage,  showing  the  expense  of 
placing  any  of  the  above  merchandise^  "  free  on  board."  Computed  by  Edward 
B.  Tosswill,  Author  of  "  Produce  Tables  from  par  to  400  premium."  Imperial 
8vo.  cloth,  pp.  x.  anf  1-33.  186k.  f£\  1*., 

f  . ( 


Publications  of  Triibner  fy  Co.  t         89 

'Towler, — THE    SILVER    SUNBEAM:      a    Practical   and   Theoretical 

Text-book  on  Sun-Drawing  and  Photographic  Printing,  comprehending  all  the 
Wet  and  Dry  Pre/:esses  at  present  known.  By  J.  Towler,  M.D.,  Prendergast 
Professor  ot  Natural  Philosophy.  Third  Edition,  enlarged.  Crown  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.  viii.  and  443.  1866.  jps.erf. 

Towler. — DKY  PLAT E  PHOTOGRAPHY  ;  or,  the  Tannin  Process  made 
Single  and  Practical  for  Operators  and  Amateurs.  By  J.  Towler,  M.D.  12mo. 
sewed,  pp.  97.  1865.  43. 

Towler. — TJSE  MAGIC  PHOTOGRAPH  ;  with*  full  Instructions  How  to 
Make  it.  By  J.  Towl  r,  M.D.  }2mo.  sewed,  pp.  \J.  1866.  Is. 

Triglot. — A  COMPLETE.  D^ICTIOMVRY,  ENGLISH,°GERMAN,  AND  FRENCH, 
,  on  an  entirely'veV  plto,  for  the  use  of  the  Three  Nations.     In  Three  Divisions. 
1  vol.  small  4to,'\.loth,  red  edges.     10^.  6d. 

TfimeH. — RJIOPALCVDERA  AFRICAE  AUSTR^XIS;  a  Catalogue  of  South 
African  'Butterflies  :  comprising  Descriptions  of  all  the  knqwn  Species,  with 
Notices  of  their  Larva;,  Pupoc,  Localities,  Habits,  Seasons  of  Appearance,  and 
Geographical  Distribution.  B^y  Ifoland  Tr^nen,  Member  of  the  Entomological 

•    Society  of  London.     Wi^h  Illustrations,  by  G.  H.  Ford.     8vo.  cloth,  pp.  iv.  and 
353.  -.1862-66.     1*«.J      > 
Ditto  Coloured,  26s. 

Triibner's  AMERICAN  Atftf  ORIENTAL  LITERARY  EECORD.  A  Monthly 
llegister  of  the  most  Important  Works  published  in  North  and  South  America, 
in  India,  China,  and  the  British  Colonies.  With  Occasional  Notes  on  German, 
Dutch,  Danish,  French,  Italian,  Spanish,  Portuguese  and  B,ussian  Books.  The 
object  of  the  Publishers 'Ai  issuing  this  monthly  publication  is  to  give  a  full  and 
particular  account  of  every  publication  of  importance  issued  in  America  and  the 
East.  Vols.'i  to  3  (36  numbers)  from  March,  1865,  to  July,  1868,  small 
quarto,  Gd.  per  number.  Subscription  5s.  per  annum.  ^Continued  monthly. 
The  object  of  the  Publishers  in  issuing  this  monthly  publication  is  to  give  a  full  and  particular 

account  of  every  publication  of  importance  issued  in  Amenca  and  in  the  East. 

Triibner's  SERIES  OF  GERMAN  PLAYS,  for  Students  of  the  German 
Language.  With  Grammatical  and  Explanatory  Notes.  By  F.  Weinmann, 
German  Master  to  the  Royal  Institution  School,  Liverpool,  ancKJ.  Zimmermann, 
Teacher  of  Modern  Languages.  No.  I.  Der  Vetter.  Comedy  in  three  Acts,  by 
Eoderick  Benedix.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  125.  1863.  >  2s.  6d. 

Triibner's  GOLD  AND  SILVER  COINS    (See  under  Current  Gold  and 

^   Silver  Coins). 

Triibner. — TRUBNER'S  BIBLIOGRAPHICAL  GUIDE  TO  AMERICAN  LITERA- 
TURE :  a  Classed  List  of  Books  published  in  the  United  States  of  America,  from 
1817  to  1857.  With  Bibliographical  Introduction,  Notes,  and  Alphabetical 
Index.  Compiled  and  Edited  by  Nicolas  Triibner.  In  1  vol.  8vo.,  half-bound, 
pp.  750.  1859.  18s. 

This  work,  it  is  believed,  is  the  first  attempt  to  marshal  the  Literature  of  the  United  States 
of  America  during  the  last  forty  years,  according  to  the  generally  received  bibliographical 
canons.  The  Librarian  will  welcome  it,  no  doubt,  as  a  companion  volume  to  Brunei,  Lowndes, 
and  Ebert ;  whilst,  to  the  bookseller,  it  will  be  a  faithful  guide  to  the  American  branch  of 
English  Literature— a  branch  which,  on  account  of  its  rapid  increase  and  rising  importance, 
begins  to  force  itself  daily  more  and  more  upon^iis  attention.  Nor  will  the  work  be  of  less 
interest  to  the  man  of  letters  inasmuch  as  it  comprises  complete  Tables  of  Contents  to  all  the 
more  prominent  Collections  of  the  Americans,  to  tlie  Journals,  Memoirs,  Proceedings,  and 
Transactions  of  their  learned  Societies — alAd  thus  furnishes  an  intelligible  key  to  a.  department 
of  Ameriiiau  scientific  activity  hitherto  but  imperfectly  known  and  understood  in  Eirope. 

OPINIONS  OF  THE  PRESS. ^ 

"It  has  been  reserved  for  a  foreigner  to  have  Compiled,  for.  the  benefit  of  European  readers, 
a  really  trustworthy  guide  to  Auglo-Aiuericaii  literati  ire.  This  honourable  distinction  has 
been  fairly  one  by  lilr.  Nicolas  'l^rtibner,  the  intelligent  and  well-known  publisher  in  Pater- 
noster-row That  gentleman  has  succeeded  in  making  a  very  va'^iable  addition  to  biblio- 
graphical knowledge,!  n  a  quarter  where  it  vvJs  much  wanted."—  Universal  Review,  Jan.,  1S59. 


90         v  Publications  of  Triibner  fy  Co. 

"'Triibner's  Bibliographical  Guide  to  American  Literature '  deserves  praise  for  the  great1 
care  with  which  it  is  prepared,  and  the  wonderful  amount  of  information  contained  in  its 
pages.     It  is  compiled  and  edited  by  Mr.  Nicolas  Triibner,  the  publisher,  of  Paternoster-row. 
It  comprises  a  classified  list  of  books  published  in  the  United  States^during  the  "last  forty  t. 


uch  credit  for  being  the  first  to  arrange  bibliography  according  to 


book."— Spectator,  Feb.^5,  1859?  c 

"  Mr.  Triibner's  book  is  by  far  th/i  most  complete  American  J  ibliography  that 'has  yet 
appeared,  and  displays  an  amount  of  patience  and  research  that  dries  him  infinite,  credit. i  We 
have  tested  the  accutacy  of  the  work  upon  several  points  demanding  much  care  and  inquiry, 
and  the  result  has  always  been  satisfactory.  Our  American  brethren  cannot  fail  td'feej  com- 
plimented by  the  production  of  this  volunje,  which  it  quantity  almost  equals  our  own  London 

n.italntriif  " — Thp   'RnnlestJIff    Fsf>    9<ltVi    1SSQ  ^ 


atalogue."—  The  Bookidler,  Feb.  24th,  1359.' 


size ;  and  wh 
phical  work  o 


anty  volume,  has  now  become  magnified,  under fhis  care,  to  one  of  considerable 
.at  was  once  little  better  than  a  dry  catalogue,  may  n^w  take  rank  as  a  biogra- 
)f  first-rate  importance.  His  position  as  an  American  literary  agent  has,  doubt- 


anything  more  complete  cannot  do  better  than  to  follow  a  model,  which  they  will  do  well  to 
copy,  if  they  would  combine  fulness  of  material  with  that  admirable  order  and  arrangement 
which  so  facilitates  reference,  and  without  which  a  work  of  this  sort  is  all  but  useless. 


"  All  honour,  thdh,  to  the  literature  of  Young  America— for  young  she  still  is,  and  let  her 
thank  her  stars  for  it — and  all  honour  also,  to  Mr.  Triibner,  for  taking  so  much  pains  to  make 
us  acquainted  with  it."—  The  Critfr,  March  19,  1859. 


ui  ills  uiiut:ri'iij4.iug — now  lew,  uruuw  mauy,  uttvu  UCOL  jiia.     j  iic  uiuauiuii, 

however,  of  his  careful  minuteness,  which  suggests  the  amount  of  labour  that  must  have  been 
bestowed  on  the  work — namely,  the  full  enumeration  of  all  the  contents  of  the  various  Trans- 
saction  and  Scientific  Journals.  Thus,  'the  Transactions  of  the  American  Philosophical 
Society,'  from  the  year  1769  to  1857 — no  index  to  which  nas  yet  appeared  in  America — are  in 
this  work  made  easy  of  reference,  every  paper  of  every  volume  being  mentioned  seriatim. 
The  naturalist,  who  wishes  to  know  what  papers  have  appeared  in  the  Boston  Journal  of 
Natural  History  during  the  last  twenty  years,  that  is,  from  its  commencement,  has  only  to 
glance  over  the  five  closely-printed  pages  pf  this  guide  to  satisfy  himself  at  once."— The 
Saturday  Review,  April  2,  1S59. 

"  We  have  never  seen  a  work  on  the  national  literature  of  a  peoplf.  more  carefully  compiled 
than  the  present,  and  the  bibliographical  prolegomena  deserves  attentive  perusal  b^  all  who 
would  stuuv  either  the  political  or  the  literary  history  of  th'  greatest  Republic  of  the  West." — 
Tlie  Leader,  Maich  26th,  1859.  « 

"The  subject  of  toy  letter  to-day  may  seem  to  be  of  a  purely  literary  character,  but  I  feel 
justified  to  claim  a  more  general  interest  for*it.  That  subject  is  connected  with  the  good  re- 
putation of  the  United  States  abroad.'  It  is  likewise  connected  with  the  general  topic  of  ny 


Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co. 


United  States,  by  promoting  the  good  reputation  of  Araer 


au  American  publisher. 
800' 


Listoof  ^>ok.s  published  in  tne  United  States  W  America,  from  1817  to  1857.  With  .Biblio- 
graphical Introduction,  N<'les,  and  Alphabetical  Index-,  Compiled  and  edited  by  Nicolas 
TrubiAsr.'  ,  t 

"This  last  remark  has  6ut  too  much  truth  in  it.  The  United  States,  in' the  opinion  of  the 
great  jtfass  of  even  the  well-educated  peop'fl  of  Europe,  is  a  country  inhabited  by  a  nation  lost 
in  th^  pursuit  of  material  interest,  a  'puntry  in  whOh  the  technically  applicable  branches  of 
,.f  some  ^ieiices  may  be  cultivated  to  a  certain  degree,  but  a  country  essentially  without 
literature -»nd  art,  a  courftny'  notwithout  newspapers -so  much  the  worse  for  it — but  almosD 
without  books.  Now,  here,  Mr.  Trubner,  a  German,  comes  out  with  a  list  of  American  books, 
filling  a  thick  volume,  though  containing  American  publications  only,  upward  from  the  year 
1 8 1 7,  from  which  time  he  dates  thi' period  of  a  more  decided  literary  independence  of  the 
United  States.  ;  i 

"Since  no  native-born,  and  even  no  adopted,  American,  has  taken  the  trouble  of  compiling, 
arranging,  digesting,  editing,  and  publishing  such  a  work,  who  else  but  a  German  could 
undertake  it  ?  who  else  among  the  European  nations  would  have  thought  American  literature 
—orth  the  labour,  the  time,  andiJbhe  money?  and,  let  me  add,  that  a  smaller  work  of  a  similar 

aracter,   '  The  Literature  of  American  Local  History,'  by  the  late  Dr.  Hermann  Ludewig, 


wo 
ch 


New  York  Daily  Tribune,  Dec.,  1858. ' 

"  It  is  remarkable  and  noteworthy  that  the  most  valuable  manual  of  American  literature 
should  appear  in  London  and  be  published  by  an  English  house.  Triibner's  Bibliographical 
Guide  to  American  Literature  is  a  work  Of  extraordinary  skill  and  perseverance,  giving  an  index 
t»*  all  the  publications  of  the  American  press  for  the  last  forty  yours."— Harper's  Weekly,  March 

no**u     loan 


28th,  1859. 


"  Mr.  Trubner  deserves  all  praise  for  having  produced  a  work  every  way  satisfactory.  No 
one  who  takes  an  interest  in  the  subject  of  which  it  treats  can  dispense  it  with  it  ;  and  we 
have  no  doubt  that  booksellers  in  this  country  will  learn  to  consider  it  necessary  to  them  as  a 
shop  manual,  and  only  second  in  importance,  for  the  purposes  of  their  trade,  to  the  London 
atalogue  itself.  That  a  foreigner,  and  a  London  bookseller,  should  have  accomplished  what 
mericans  themselves  have  failed  to  do,  is  most  creditable  to  the  compiler.  The  volume 


C 

Am 


v  ae  ,  o  creae  o  e  comper.  e  voume 

contains  149  pages  of  introductory  natter,  containing  by  far  the  best  record  of  American 
literary  history  yet  published  ;  and  ft  21  pages  of  classed  list  of  books,  to  which  an  alphabeti- 
cal index  of  33  pages  is  added.  This  alphabetical  index  alone  may  claim  to  be  one  of  the  most 
valuable  aids  for  enabling  the  student  of  literary  history  to  form  a  just  and  perfect  estimate 
of  the  great  and  rising  up  portauce  of  Anglo-  American  literature,'  the  youngest  and  most  un- 
trammelled of  all  which  illustrate  the  gradual  de.-'elopmeni  of  the  human  mind."—  The  Press, 
Philadelphia,  Oct.  11,  1858. 

"We  do  not  so  much  express  the  wist1  by  this  notice,  that  Mr.  Trubner  may  not  find  a 
public  ungf-ateful  for  his'labours,  as  congratuiAte,  especially  American  Bibliophiles,  Jp'ou  the 
advantages  within  their  feaeh,  by  the  acquisition  and  use  of  what  Mr.  Trubner  lias  so  oppor- 
tunely supplied."—  Washington  National  Intelligencer,  March  i,'2nd,  1859. 

"  This  volume  contains  a  well-  classified  h'st  of  bJoks  published  in  the  United  States  of  Ame- 
rica during  the  last  forty  years,  preceded  by  a  tolerably  fi:M  survey  of  American  literary  enter- 
prise during  the  first  half  of  the  nineteenth  century.  The  value  of  such  a  guide,  in  itself 
tolerably  evident,  becomes  more  so  upon  glancing  ovt*  the  five  hun.A-ed  and  forty  pages  of 
close  print  which  display  the  literary  activity  yervading  the  country  of  Prescott  and  Mottfey 

>  > 


92       \  Publications  of  Trubner  fy  Co. 

1    »  t 

of  Irving  and  Hawthorne,  of  Poe  and  Longfellow,  of  Story  and  Wheaton,  of  Moses  Stuart  ana 
Channing.  This  volume  will  be  useful  to  the  scholar,  but  to  the  librarian  it  is  indispensable." 
—Daily  yews,  March  24th,  1859. 

"  There  are  hundreds  of  men  of  moderate  scholarship  who  would* 'gladly  stand  on  somqf 


0 _-ican,  Aiiioones  .Dictionary  is  aamiraoie  ;  out,  ipr particular  iniorma- 

tion  as  to  the  American  side  of  the  house,  the  recently  published  Bibliographical  truide  to 
American  Literature,  by  Nicholas  TrUbner,  of  London,  mai  be  conscientiously  commended. 
A  careful  perusal  of  this  truly  rerfarkable  work  cannot  fail  to  give  any  intelligent  persop  a  , 
clear  and  complete  idea  of  the  w,hole  state  of  American  book  -making,  not  (/uly  in  its  literary 
aspect,  but  in  its  historical,  anpl,  added  to  this,  in  its  most  mechanical  detail." — Philadelphia 
Evening  Bulletin,  March  5th,  1*39.  (j  ' 

"  But  the  best  work  on  American  bibliography  yet-  published  has  come  to  us  from  London, 
where  it  has  been  compiled  by  the  well-known  bibliophile,  Triit&ier.  'Tfee  work  is  remarkable 
for  condensation  and  accuracy,  though  we  have  noted  a  few  errors  a?"*'  omissions,  upon  which 
we  should  like  to  comment,  had  we  now  space  to  do  so." — New  York  Times,  March  2(fi'a,  1'U69. 

"Some  of  our  readers,  whose  attention  has  been  particularly  failed  to  scientific  and  literary 
matters,  may  ren>ember  meeting,  some  years  since,  in  this  country,  a  most  intelligent  , 


graphical  tiuiue  10  -viuencau  ijiieraiurts,  etc.,  pp.  AXXII.  i&'s.  luis  nuiiiiuti  was  me  genii  UL 
the  important  publication,  the  title  of  which  the  reader  will  find  at  the  commencenent  of  this 
article.  Now,  in  consequence  of  Mr.  Triibner's  admirable  classification  and  minute  index,  the 
inquirer  after  knowledge  lias  nothing  to  do  but  copy  from  the  Bibliographical  Guide  the 
titles  of  the  American  books  which  he  wishes  to  consult,  despatch  them  to  his  library  by  a 
messenger,  and  in  a  few  minutes  he  has  before  him  the  coveted  volumes,  through  whose  means 
he  hopes  to  enlarge  his  acquisitions.  Undoubtedly  it  wl'ald  be  a^  cause  of  well-founded 
reproach,  of  deep  mortification  to  every  intelligent  American,  if  the  arduous  labours  of  the 
learned  editor  and  compiler  of  this  volume  (whom  we  almost  hesitate  to  call  a  foreigner), 
should  fail  to  be  appreciated  in  a  country  to  which  he  has,  by  the  preparation  of  this  valuable 
work,  proved  himself  so  eminent  a  benefactor." — Pennsylvania  Enquirer,  March  26th,  1869. 

"  The  editor  of  this  volume  has  acquired  a  knowledge  of  the  productions  of  the  America:i 
press  which  is  rarely  exhibited  on  the  other  side  of  the  Atlantic,  and  which  must  command 
the  admiration  of  the  best  informed  students  of  the  subject  in  this  country.  His  former  work 
on  American  bibliography,  though  making  no  preiensions  to  completeness,  was  a  valuable 
index  to  various  branches  of  learning  that  had  been  successfully  cultivated  by  our  scholars 


igiire  into  a   ua.:,e,    110  one   uau  uuusuiu   it  uauituiiny    WILIIUUL   iccumug 
worthiness,  as  well  as  its  completeness." — Harper's  Magazine,  April,  1859. 

"  Nor  is  the  book  a  dry  catalogue  only  of  the  names  and  contents  of  the  publications  of 
America.  Prefixed  to  it  are  valuable  bibliographical  prolegomena,  instructive  to  the  antiquary, 


Publications  of  Triibner  fy  Co.  93 

•  "  Mr.  Triibner,  who  is  not  only  a  bibliopole  but  a  iSiblfophile,  has,  in  this  work,  materially 
increased  the  claim  which  hs  had  already  upon  the  respect  of  all  book-lovers  everywhere,  but 
especially  in  the  United  States,  to  whose  literature  ho  has  now  made  so  important  and  useful 
a  contribution.  So  much  larger  than  a  former  book,  under  a  similar  title,  which  he  published 
la  1855,  and  so  much  more  ample  in  every  respect,  the  present  constitutes  a  new  implement 
for  our  librarie^,  as  well  as  the  most  valuable  existing  aid  for  those  students  who,  without 
libraries,  have  an  interest  in  knowing  their  contents." — Baltimore  American,  2nd  April,  1859. 

'  "  Lastly,  published  only  Jhe  other  day,  is  Ttubner's  Bibliographical  Guide  to  American 
Literature,  which  gives  a  classed  list  of  books  published  in  the  United  States  durii%  the  last 
forty  years,  with  bibliographical  introduction,  notes,  and  Alphabetical  index.  This  octavo 
volume  has  been  compiled  and  jedited  by  Mr.  Nicolas  Triibner,  the  well-known  head  of  one 
of  the  great  foreim  publishing  aiid  importing  houses  of  Litodon,  who  is  also  editor  of  Ludewig 
and  Turner's  Literature  of  American  Aboriginal  Language^.  Besides  containing  d  c'assod 
list  of  books,  wifth  an  alphabetical  index,  Mr.  Triibner's  book  'jas  an  introduction,  in  which, 
at  considerab  e  fu.^iess,  he  treats  of  the  liijj»ry  of  American  literature,  i  eluding  newspapers, 
periodicals,  and  puWie.libraries.  it  is  fair  to  state  that  Mr.  Triibner  s  Bibliographical  Guide 
wjs  published  subsequent  to  Alliboue's  Dictionary,  but  printed  off  about  the  same  time." — 
Philadelphia  Prets,  Apri.4th,  1859. 

"This  is  a  valuable  worll'Yor  book  buyers.  For  its  compilation  we  are  indebted  to  a  f. reign 
bibliJrnaniaov  but  one  who  lias  made  himself  familiar  :yith  American  literature,  and  has 
possessedtfhimself  of  the -most  ample  sourcuS  of  information.  The  volurie  contains : — I.  Bi- 
bliogio^pliical  Prolegomena ;  II.  Contributions  towards  a  History  of  American  Literature ; 
Hljflotioes  of  Public  Libraries  of  tlyj  United  States.  These  three  heads  form  the  introduc- 
,..n.  anil  occupy  one  hundred  aud  nfty  pages.  IV.  Classed  list  of  books;  V.  Alphabetical 
list  of  au»>hors.  This  pis*!,  to  somewhat  a  ter  that  adopted  in  Watts' celebrated 'Bibliotheca 
Britanuiea,'  a  work  of  immense  value,  whose  compilation  occupied  some  forty  years.  The 
classified  portion  of  the  present  work  enables  the  reader  to  find  readily  the  names  of  all  books 
on  any  one  subject.  The  alpUa'-*tical  index  of  authors  enables  the  reader  to  ascertain 
instantly  me  names  of  all  authr^s  and  of  all  their  works,  including  the  numerous  periodical 
publications  of  the  last  forty  years.  Mr.  Triibner  deserves  the  thanks  of  the  literary  world 
for  his  plan,  and  its  able  execution." — New  York  Courier  and  Enquirer,  April  llth,  1859. 

"L'auteur,  dans  unepreTace  dedix  pages,  expose  les  id£es  qui  lui  ont  fait  eatreprendre  son 
livre,  et  le  plan  qu'il  r»cru  deviJJr  adopter.  Dans  une  savante  introduction,  il  fait  une  revue 
critique  des  diffe'rentes  ouvrages  relatifs  al'Amdrique;  il  signale  ceux  qui  ont  le  plus  con- 
tribue'  a  1'establis^ment  d'une  litte>ature  spe'ciale  Am(Sricaine,  et  il  en  fait  1'histoire,  cette 
purtie  de  son  travail  est  destinee  a  lui  faire  honneur,  elle  est  mgthorliquement,  divisde  en 
ptiriode  coloniale  et  en  pe"riode  Ame'ricaine  et  renferme.  sur  les  progres  de  i'imprimerie  en 
ArneYique,  sur  le  salaire  des  auteurs,  sur  le  commerce  de  la  librairie,  les  publications 
peViodiqnes,  des  renseignements  tres  inte'ressants,  que  Ton  est  heureux  de  trouver  re'uuis 
pour  la  premiere  fois.  Cette  introduction,  qui  n'a  pas  moins  de  160  pages,  se  termine  par  une 
table  statisque  de  toutes  les  bib'iotheques  publiques  des  diffeYents  E;ats  de  1'Uuion. 

"  Le  catalogue  me'thodique  et  raisonne'  des  ouvrages  n'occupe  pas  moins  de  521  pages,  il 
forme  32  sections  consacre'es  chacuno  &  1'une  des  branches  des  sciences  hsmaines ;  celle  qui 
douue  laliste  des  ouvrages  qui  inteVessent  la  geographic  et  les  voyages  (section  xvi.)  comprend 
pres  de  600  articles,  et  parmi  eux  on  trotwe  1'iudication  de  plusieurs  ouvrages  dont  nous  ne 
soupconnious  meme  pus  1'existence  en  Europe.  Un  index'  ge'iie'ral  alphabe"tique  par  noms 
d'auteurs  qui  termiue  ce  livre,  permet  d'abreger  des  recherches  souvent  bien  pe'nibles.  Le 
.guide  bibliographiqtie  de  M.  Triibner  est  un  monument  e'leve'  a  1'aotivit^  scientiflque  et 
ntteYaire  Am^ricaine  et  comme  tel,  il  est  digne  de  prendre  place  a  c6te  des  ouvrages  du  meme 
g'-nre  publics  en  Europe  par  les  Brunet,  les  Lowndes,  et  les  Ebert.  (V.  A.  Malte-Brun)." — 
Jfouvelles  Annales  des  Voyages,  April,  18o9. 

Tllder, — MY  OWN    PHILOLOGY.      By    A.  Tuder.      In   Two   Parts, 

8vo.  pp.  iv.  and  40,  60,  sewed.     1866.     1*.  each. 

Twenty-five  YEARS'  CONFLICT  IN  THE  CHURCH,  AND  ITS  REMEDY. 
12mo.  sewed,  pp.  viii.  and  70.  1855.  Is.  &d. 

Uhlemann's  SYRIAC  GRAMMAR.  Translated  from  the  German  by 
Enoch  Hutchinson.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  368.  1855.  18s. 

Ullmann, — THE  WORSHIP  OF  GENIUS,  AND  THE  DISTINCTIVE  CHA- 
RACT.SJR  OR  ESSENCE  OF  CHRISTIANITY.  By  Professor  C.  Ullmann.  Translated 
by  Lucy  Sandfortf.  Post  3tvo.  cloth,1  pp.  116.  1840.  3s.  6d. 

United  States  CONSULAR  REGULATIONS.  '  A  Practical  Guide  for  Con- 
sular Officers,  and  also  for  merchants,  shipowners,  and  masters  of  American 
vessels,  in  all  their  consular  transactions.  Third  edition,  revised  and  enlarged 
8vo.  pp.  684,  cloth.  186?'.  21s.  *  ">  > 

^  '*     -  ^       '    \> 


94  Publications  of  Trilbner  fy  Co. 

United  States  PATENT  LAW  (The).  Instructions  how  to  obtain 
Letters  Patent  for  new  inventions  ;  including  a  variety  of  useful  information 
concerning  the  rules  and  practice  of  the  Patent  Office  ;  howjjto  sell  patents  ;  hov*' 
to  secure  foreign  patents  ;  forms  for  assignments  and  licenses,  together  with 
engravings  and  desctuptions  of  the  condensing  s^eam-engine,  and  the  principal 
mechanical  movements,  valuable  tables,  calculati&is,  problems,  etc.,  etc.  By 
Munnj,.  and  Co.,  Solicitors  of  Patents,  No.  37,  Park  Bow,  New  York.  Third 
edition,  12mo.,  pp.  108,  cloth.  1867.  1*.  §d. 

Unity,  DUALITY,  AND  TKINITY  OF  THE  GODHEAD  Q-i  Discussion 
among  upwards  of  250  theological  enquirers,  clergymen,  dissenting  ministers  and 
laymen,  on  the).  With  Digressions  on  the  trsation,  fall,  incarnation,  atonement, 
resurrection,  and  infallibility  of  the  Scriptures/^  inspiration,  (  miracles,  future 
punishments,  revision  of  the  Bible,  etc.  The  press  correc.te*d  by  Ranley,  the 
Reporter  of  the  discussion.  Svo.  pp.  20C,  cloth.  1864.  6s.  .-/>  •< 

Unity  (THE)  OF  TRUTH.  .  A  Devotional  Diar/,  compiled  from"  the 
Scripture  and  other  sources.  By  the  Author  of  "  Visiting  my  Relation9."s18mo. 
cloth,  pp.  iv.  138.  1867.  "2s.  f  '•'  ^ 

Universal  CORRESPONDENCE  IN  Six  LANGUAGES.  "  .English,  German, 
French,  Dutch,  Italian,  and  Spanish.  2  vols.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  664  >and  660. 
1865.  20*.  i  . 

Universal  CHURCH  (THE)  ;   its  Faith,    Docfi'ine,  and  Constitution. 
'     Crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  iv.  and  398.     1866.     6s. 

Upper  RHINE  (THE).  Illustrating  its  finest  ^Cities,  Castles,  Ruins, 
and  Landscapes.  From  drawings  by  Messrs.  Eohbock,  Louis  and  Julius  Lange, 
engraved  by  the  most  distinguished  artists.  With  a  historical  *.nd  topographical 
text.  Edited  by  Dr.  Gaspey.  Svo.  pp.  496.  With  134  steel-plate  illustrations, 
cloth.  1859.  £2  2s. 

Uricoechea.  —  MAPOTECA  COLOMBIANA  :  Catalogo  de  Todos  los 
Mapas,  Pianos,  Vistas,  etc.,  relatives  a  la  America-Espariola,  Brasil,  e  Islas 
adyacentes.  Arreglada  cronologicamenle  i  precedida  de  una  introduccion  sobre 
la  historia  carVbgrafica  de  America.  Por  el  Doctor  Ezequiel  Uricoechea,  de 
Bogota,  Nueva  Granada.  ^One  vol.  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  232.  1860.  6s. 

Uriel,  AND  OTHER  POEMS.     12mo.  cloth.     2s.  6d. 


l,  —  POEMS.     By  the  Author  of  Uriel.     Second  Edition.   12mo. 
cloth,  pp.  169.     1857.     2s. 

Urqilhart.  —  PROGRESS  OF  RUSSIA  in  the  West,  North,  and  South,  by 
Opening  the  Sources  of  Opinion,  and  appropriating  the  Channels  of  Wealth  and 
Power.  By  David  Urquhart.  Fifth  edition,  pp.  490,  with  Map,.  12mo.  stiff 
cover.  1852.  Is.  6d.  ' 

Urquhart.  —  RECENT  EVENTS  IN  THE  EAST.  Letters,  Essays,  etc.  By 
David  Urquhart.  12mo.  pp.  312,  1853.  Is.  6d. 

Urqilhart.  —  THE  WAR  OF  '  IGNORANCE  ;  its  Progress  and  Results  :  a 
Prognostication  and  a  Testimony.  By  David.  Urquhart.  ^Svo.  1854.  Is. 

.  .,  ft  C- 

Urquhart.  -"  -THE  OCCUPANTS  OF  THE  CRIMEA.  An  Appeal  from  To- 
day and  To-morrow.  By  David  Urquhart.  Svo.  sewed.  1854.  Gd. 

Urquhart,  —  THE  HOME  FA£E  OF  THE  "  FOUR  POINTS."  By  David 
Urquhart.  Svo.  pp.*<2.  1854.  «  IT. 

r  .'  '' 


Publications  of  Triibner  §•  Co.  95 

Valet  ta, — 'O/^ijpov  /3to<?  teal  Trotrj/udrd.  II pay pare  La  la-ropucr)  teal 
KpiriKr).  inrb  'IttdvvQV  N.  BaXtrra.  (The  Life  and  Poems  of  Homer.  A 
Historical  and  Critical  Essay.  By  John  N.  Valetta).  1  vol.  4to.  pp.  xii.  and 
403,  with  an  illustration,  sewsd,  1866.  21s. 

Valettat-^^amoD     TOV,  aoffxardrov  Kal   djLa^rdrov    Uarpidp^ov 

KwvffTavrivvTroXtuiQ  '  £iri(TToXal.  'Aig  Svo  rov  avrov  Trap  77/0  r  77  rai 
A-jEpiiiTiHJiara  StKcTcrvv  i<rate  TCUQ  anoKpifftaiv,  fjroi  aavaytayai  Kai-ya 
aKpifJiig,  ffvvtiXtyfisvai  '\K  rStv  avvuSiKwv  Kal  iffropiicwv  ypa<f>0>v  irtpl 
iriav  Kai  Mr]TpoTroXiTtt>i  / Kal  Xoiirtav  trspwv  &v.yysaiuv  ^»jr>j/iaraiv.  B. 
Kal  tTriXvC'Jie  irkvrt  KsijtaXaiwv,  r<j>  Gto^iXeorar^),  offtairary  AIOVTI  A 
GKOTTijt  KifAa/3jO/af.  Mtrd  Trpo^yofi.svdiv  Trspl  rov  (Siou  /cat  rStv  (ruyypa/ 
<b<i>Twv  K.T.&.  inrb  'Itaawuv  N.'BdAerra.  (The  Epistles  of  Photius,  the  wisest 
,  and  holiest  lijxiardpof  Kbnstantinople.  To  which  are  attached  two  works  of 
the  same  authoi  •  1.  Ten  Questions  with  their  answers,  viz.,  collections  and 
accurate  descriptions  gathered  from  the  synodical  and  historical  writings  on  the 
Bishops  and  MetropiALtans.  2.  Sentences  an!  interpretations,  in  five  chapters, 
addressed  to  Leon-,'  the  Archbishop  of  Calabria.  With  an  Introduction  on  the 
Sue  and  Writings  of  Photius.  rvliy  John  N.  Valetta.)  1  vol.  4to.  pp.  581  sewed. 
..  -1864.  £1  10s.* 

Van'Ser  Tuuk, — OUT£J^ES  OF  A  GRAMMAR  OP  THE  MALAGASY  LAN- 
GUAG«.  By  H.  8.  Van  der  Tuuk.  Svo.  sewed,  pp.  28.  1866.  Is. 

Van  $er  Tuuk, — SHCF^  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  MALAY  MANUSCRIPTS 
belonging  to  the  Koyal  J*iatic  Society.  By  H.  N.  Van  Der  Tuuk.  8vo.  sewed, 
pp.  51.  1866.  Is. 

Van  de  Weyer, — CnoixD' OPUSCULES  PHILOSOPHIQUES,  HISTORIQUES, 
POLITICOES  ET«  LITTEL&IKES  de  Sylvain  Van  de  Weyer.  Precedes  d'Avaut- 
propos  de  1'Editeur.  Premiere  Serie. 

O  Table  de  Matieres. 

1 .  Le  Roi  Cobden. 

2.  Lettres  sui'  les  Anglais  qui  out  6vc\i  en  Fraugais. 

3.  Discours  sur  1'Histuire  de  la  Philosophic. 

4.  Moyen  facile  et  e"conomique  d'etre  bieafaisant,  propose*  aux  jeunes  Gens,  et  suivi  de 

Pense"es  di verses. 

5.  Lettre  a  M.  Ernst  Miinch. 

Crown  8vo.  pp.  374.     Eoxburghe  style.     1863.     10s.  6d. 
Ditto.     Ditto.     Seconde  Serie.     (In  the  Press.)  *> 

Van  Laun  (HENRI), — GRAMMAR  OF    THE  FRENCH  LANGUAGE. 

Parts  I.  and  II.  Accidence  and  Syntax.  In  one  vol.  crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  151 

and  117.     5th  edition.     1867.     4s. 

Part  III.  Exercises.  4th  Ed.    Crown  Svo.  cloth,  pp.  xii.  and  285.1866.3s.  Gd. 

Van  Laun, — LEMONS  G-RADUEES  DE  TRADUCTION  ET  DE  LECTURE  ;  or, 

Graduated  Lessons  in  Translation  and  Beading,   with   Biographical   Sketches, 

Annotations  on  History,  Geography,   Synonyms  and  Style,  and  a  Dictionary  of 

Words    and    Idioms.      By  Henri   Van  Laun.     12mo.    cloth,  pp.  vi.  and  476. 

1863.  5s. 

Varnhagen, — AMERIGO  YSSPUCCI.  .Son  caractere,  ses  ecrits  (meme 
les  moins  authentiqiies),  sa  vie  et  ses  navigations,  avec  une  carte  indiquant  les 
routes.  Par  F.  A.  de  Varnhagen,  Ministre  du  Bresil  au  Perou,  Chili  et  Ecuador, 
etc.  Small  Folio,  pp.  120,  boards.  1865.  14s. 

Varnhagen, — LA  VERDADERA  GDANAHANI  DE  COLON.  Memoria 
communicada  a  ,la  i'acultad  de  humanidades.  Por  Don  Francisco  Ad.  de 
Varnhagen,  e  irjpresa  en  el  tomo  ^xvi.  de  los  anales  de  Chile  (Enerp.de  1864). 
Svo.  pp.  xiv.,  with  a  maj?  of  the  Bahaman  and  Antillan  Arch-pelage,  sewed, 

1864.  2s.  6d. 

Velasquez  and  Simonne's  NEW  METHOD  TO  BEAD,  WRITE,  AND 
SPEAK  THE  SPANISH  LANGUAGE.  Adapted  io  Ollendorff's  System.  Post  8vo. 
pp.  558,  cloth.  1866.  6s*.  ^  )  3 

Key.     Post  Svo.  pp.  174.,  cloth,  fa. 


96  Publications  of  Triibner  fy  Co. 

Velasquez, — A  DICTIONARY  OF  THE  SPANISH  A^D  ENGLISH  LAN- 
GUAGES. For  the  Use  of  Young  Learners  and  Travellers.  By  M.  Velasquez  de 
la  Cadena.  In  Two  Parts.  I.  Spanish-English.  II.  English-Spanish.  12mo. 
pp.  680,  cloth.  1864.  12*. 

Velasquez, — A  PRONOUNCING  DICTIONARY  OF  THE  SPANISH  AND 
ENGLISH  LANGUAGES.  Composed  from  the  Dictionaries  of  the  Spanish 
Academy,  Terreos,  and  Salva,  and  "Webster,  "Worcester,  and  Walker.  cTwo 
Parts  in  one  thick  volume.  By  M.  Velasquez  de  1(  Cadena.  Royal  8vo.  pp. 
1,280,  cloth.  1866.  25*.  w  V,  ^ 

Velasquez, — AN  EASY  INTRODUCTION  TO  SPANISH  CONVERSATION, 
containing  all  that  is  necessary  to  make  a  lupid  progress  in  it.  Particularly 
designed  for  persons  who  have  little  time  to*  study,  pr  are  thejr  own  instructors. 
By  M.  Velasquez  de  la  Cadena.  New  edition,  revised  *  and  pnlarged.  12mo.' 
pp.  150,  cloth.  1863.  2*.  6d.  .  ^  < 

Velasquez, — NEW    SPANISH  •  EEADER  :     Passagaa   from    the    rnpst 

approved  authors^,  in  Prose  and  Verse.     A«  ranged  in  progiassive  order.     With 

Vocabulary.     Post  8vo.  pp.J352,  cloth.    1866,     6*.  6d.  'X 

Vera, — PROBLEME    DE    LA     CERTITUDE.      «By   Professor   A.    Vera. 
'     8vo.  pp.  220.     1845.     3*.  *c    ',< 

Vera. — PLATONIS    ARISTOTELIS    ET    HEGELII   DE   MEDIO   TERMING 

DOCTRIXA.     By  Professor  A.  Vera.     8vo.  pp.  45.    <.8i5.     1*.  &d. 
Vera. — INQUIRY   INTO  SPECULATIVE   AND    EXPERIMENTAL    SCIENCE. 

By  Professor  A.  Vera.     8vo.  pp.  68.     1856.     3.$.  &d. 
Vera, — LOGIQUE   DE    HEGEL,    traduite    pour   la    premiere  fois    et 

accompagnee  d'une  introduction   et  d'uH  commentairb  perpeVuel.     2  volumes. 

8vo.  pp.  750.     By  Professor  A.  Vera.     1859.     12*. 
Vera. — L'HEGELIANISME    ET  LA   PHILOSOPHIE.       I5y   Professor   A. 

Vera.     8vo.  pp.  226.     1861.    3*.  6d. 
Vera, — MELANGES    PHILOSOPHIQUES    (containing  Papers  in  Italian 

and  French.     By  Professor  A.  Vera.     8vo.  pp.  304.     1862.     5s. 
Vera. — PROLUSIONI  ALLA  STORIA  DELLA  FILOSOFIA  E  DALLA  FILOSOFIA 

BELLA  STORIA.  «3y  Professor  A.  Vera.     8vo.  pp.  87.     1863.     2*. 
Vera. — INTRODUCTION  A  LA    PHILOSOPHIE   DE    HEGEL.      Deuxieme 

edition,  revue  et  augmenteeMe  Notes  et  d'une  Preface.     By  Professor  A.  Vera. 

8vo.  pp.  418.     (The  first  edition  appeared  in  1854).     1864.     6*. 
Vera. — ESSAIS  DE  PHILOSOPHIE  HEGELIENNE,  contenant  la  Peine  de 

Mort,  Amour  et  Philosophic,  et   Introduction  a  la  Philosophic.     By  Professor 

A.  Vera.     12mo.  pp.  203.     1864,     2*.  Qd. 
Vera, — PHILOSOPHIE  DE  LA  NATURE  DE  HEGEL,  traduite    pour  la 

premiere  fois  et  accompagnee  d'une  introduction  et  d'une  commentaire  perpetuel. 

By  Professor  A.  Vera.     3  volumes.     8vo.  pp.  1637.     1863,  1864,  and  1865.  24*. 
Vera. — PHILOSOPHIE    DE    L'ESPRIT    DE    BPEGEL,  Traduite  pour   la 

premiere     fois  et  accompagnee   de  deux  Introductions  et  d'un   Commentaire 

Perpetuel.  Par  A.  Vera.  Tome  premier,  flvo.  sewed,  pp.  cxii.  and  471.  1867.  12*. 
Verkriizen, — A  TREATISE  ON   MUSLIN  EMBROIDERY  in    its  Various 

Branches,  including  Directions  for  the  different  Styles  of  this  Work,  with  eight 

beautiful   Illustrations,    a    Receipt    to    get  tup    Embroidery,    etc.     By  T.  A. 

Verkrii~f n,  author  of  a  Treatise  on  Berlirf  Wool  aiyl   Colour^.     Oblong,  sewed, 

pp.  26.    186'i.     1*.  .        . 

Verkriizen. — A     TREATISE     ON     BERLIN    WOOL     AND     COLOURS; 

Needlework,  Muslin,  Embroidery,  Potichomariie,  Diaphanie,  and  Japanerie,  fo» 

the  use  of  Dealers  and  Amateurs  in  Fancy  Work.    «Gy  T.  A.  Verkriizen.     4to. 

pp.  32.     1857.     1*.  * 


Publications  of  Trtibner  fy  Co.  97 

~t 

Versmann  and  Oppenheim, — ON  THE  COMPARATIVE  VALUE  OF  CERTAIN 
SALTS  FOR  RENDERING  FABRICS  NON-INFLAMMABLE  ;  being  the  substance  of  a 
paper  reajl  before  the  British  Association,  at  the  meeting  in  Aberdeen,  Septem- 
ber loth,  1859.  By  Fred.  Versmann,  F.C.S.,  and  Alphons  Oppenheim,  Ph.  D., 
A.C.S.  8vo.  pp.  32,  eewed.  1859.  Is.  . 

Vickers, — IMAGINISM  AND   RATIONALISM.     An  Explanation   of  the 
Origin  and  Progress  of  Christianity.     By  John  Vickers.     Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp. 
1  viii.  and  43±.     1867.     Is.&d. 

Villars  (D^ — MEMOIRES  DE.T,A  COTTR  D'ESP^GNE  sous  LE  REGNE  DE 
CHARLES  II.  ,1678— 1682.,  Par  le  Marquis  de  Villars.  Small  4to.  pp.  xl.  and 
382,  cloth.  lb«l.  30*. 

^ishM  PURANA. — A  SYSTEM  OF  HINDU  MYTHOLOGY  AND  TRADITION. 
Translated  from  the  original  Sanskrit,  and  illustrated  by  Notes  derived  chiefly 
from,  other  Puranas.  By  the  late  Horace  Hayman  "Wilson,  M.A.,  F.R.S., 
thoroughly  revised  and  edited,"^  with  Nates,  by  -  Dr.  Fitzedward  Hall.  In  5 

_  'Vols.  8vo.  Vol.  I.  pp.  340.  Vol.  II.  pp.  348.  Vol.  III.  pp.  348.  10s.  Qd.  each. 
(VCMS.  IV.  and  V.'Uf  tlie^ress). 

Voice  -FROM  MAYFAIR  (A).    8 vo.  pp.  58,  sewed.    1868.   4d. 

Volpe.^AN    ITALIAN  Ot  GRAMMAR.      By   Girolamo  Volpe,    Italian 

Master  at  Eton  College.     For  the  Use  of  Eton.     Crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  242. 
1863.     4s.  Qd. 

Volpe. — A  KEY-  to  tin? Exercises  of  Yolpe's  Italian  Grammar.  12mo. 

sewed,  pp.  18.     1863.     Is. 
Von  Gotta, — GEOLOGY  AND  HISTORY  :  a  Popular  Exposition  of  all 

that  is  known  of  the  Earth  and  its  Inhabitants  in  Pre-historic  Times.     By 

Bernhard  Von  Cotta,  Professor  of  Geology  at  Freiburg.     Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  iv. 

and  84.     1865.     2s. 

Voysey. — DOGMA  VERSUS  MORALITY.  A  Reply  to  Church  Congress. 
By  Charles  Voysey,  B.A.  Post  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  12.  1866.  &. 

Voysey, — THE  SLING  AND  THE  STONE.  By  Charles  Voysey,  B.A., 
St.  Edmund  Hall,  Oxford,  Incumbent  of  Healaugh.  Volume  I.  (12  numbers  for 
1866).  Crown  8vo.  cloth.  1866.  6s. 

Voysey. — THE  SLING  AND  THE  STONE.  By  Charles  Voysey,  B.A. 
Volume  II.  (12  numbers  for  1867).  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  176.  1867.  7s.  Gd. 

Voysey. — HUMANITY  versus  BARBARISM  IN  OUR  THANKSGIVING.  By 
Charles  Voysey,  B.A.,  St.  Edmund  Hall,  Oxford,  Incumbent  of  Healaugh, 
Tadcaster.  8vo.,  pp.  12.  1868.  3d. 

Wade. — WEN-CHIEN  Tzu-ERH  CHI.  A  Series  of  Papers  selected 
as  specimens  of  documentary  Chinese,  designed  to  assist  Students  of  the 
language,  as  written  by  the  officials  of  China.  Vol.  I.  and  Part  I.  of  the  Key. 
By  Thomas  Francis  Wade,  C.B.,  Secretary  to  Her  Britannic  Majesty's  Legation 
.at  Peking.  4to.,  half-cloth,  pp.  xii.  and  455 ;  and  iv.,  72  and  52.  1867. 
£1  16s.  '  r 

Wade, — YU-YE.T  Tzu-ERH  CHI.  A  progressive  course,  designed  to 
assist  the  Student  of  Colloquial  Chinese, '  as  spoken  in  the  Capital  and  the 
Metropolitan  Department.  In  .Eight  Parts,  with  Key,  Syllabary,  and  Writing 

'  Exercises.  By  Thomas  Francis  Wade,  C?B.,  Secretary  to  Her  Britannic 
Majesty's  Legation,  Peking.  3  vols.  4to.^,  Progressive  Bourse,  pp.  xx.  296  and 
16  ;  Syllabary,  pp.  126  and  36  ;  V/iiting  Exercises,  pp.  48  ;  Key,  pp.  174  and 
140,  sewed.  1867.  £4. 


98  Publicatien$  of  Triibner  $  Co.  rf 

Wafflard   and   Fulgence. — LE   VOYAGE   A   DIEPPE.     A  Comedy  in 
Prose.     By  Wafflard  and  Fulgence.     Edited,  with  English  Cfotes,  by  'the  Rev.  f 
P.  H.  Ernest  Brette,  B.D.,  of  Christ's  Hospital',  and  the  University  of  London. 

Crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.*104.     1867.     2s.  6d.         *     c 

c 

"Wake, — CHAPTERS  ON  MAN.  With  the  Outlines  of  a  Science  of 
comparative  Psychology.  By  C.  Staniland  Wake,,  Fellow  of  the  Anthropo- 
logical Society  of  London.  C'sown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  vik.  and  344.  1868.  7s.  6d. 

£_.  * 

Wanklyn  and  Chapman,— WATER  ANALYSIS.  «A  Practical  Treatise 
on  the  examination  of  potable  water.  Bj»  J.  Alfred  "Wanklyn,  II. E.G. S.,  Pro- 
fessor of  Chemistry  in  London  Institution,  and  'Ernest  Tnee£hron  Chapman,. 
Crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  x.  and  104.  1868,  5s.  ««-c 

Ware. — SKETCHES  OP   EUROPEAN   CAPITALS.      !gy   William   Waje, 
Author  of  "Zepobia;  or,  Letters  from  Palmyra,"   "Anglian,"   etc!    8vo. pp.      < 
124.     1851.     Is.  •"> 

<  ,, 

Warning ;    OR,  THE  BEGINNING  OF  THE  END..    ,By  the  Author  61 

"  Who  am  I  ¥'     1  vol.,  8vo.  cloth.     2s.  *         '   . 

f> 

Watson, — INDEX  TO  THE  NATIVE  AND  SCIENTIFIC  NAMES  OF  INDIAN 
AND  OTHER  EASTERN  ECONOMIC  PLANTS  AND  PRODUCTS,  originally  prepared 
under  the  authority  of  the  Secretary  of  State  for  India  in  Council.  By  John 
Forbes  Watson,  M.A.,  M.D.,  F.L.S.,  F.E.A.S.,  etc.,  Reporter  on  the  Products 
of  India.  Imperial  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  650.  1868.  £1  £.s.  Qd.  . 

Watson, — THEORETICAL  ASTRONOMY,  relating  to  the  motions  of  the 
heavenly  bodies  revolving  around  the  sun  in  accordance  with  the  law  of  universal 
gravitation,  embracing  a  systematic  derivation  of  the  formulae  for  the  calcula- 
tion cf  the  geocentric  and  heliocentric  places,  for  the  determination  of  the 
orbits  of  Planets  and  Comets,  for  the  correction  of  approximate  elements,  and  for 
the  computation  of  special  perturbation ;  together  with  the  theory  of  the  com- 
bination of  observations,  and  the  method  of  least  squares.  With  numerical 
examples  and  auxiliary  tables.  By  James  C.  Watson,  Director  of  the  Obser- 
vatory at  Ann  Arbor,  and  Professor  of  Astronomy  in  the  University  of  Michigan. 
8vo.  cloth,  pp.  662.  1868.  £1  18s. 

Watts, — ESSAYS  ON  LANGUAGE  AND  LITERATURE.  By  Thomas  Watts,<^- 
of  the  British  Museum.     Reprinted,  with  Alterations  and  Additions,  from  the 
"  Transactions  of  the  Philological   Society,"   and  elsewhere.  1  vol.  8vo.      (In 
preparation). 

Watts  and  Doddridge. — HYMNS  FOR  CHILDREN.  Revised  and 
altered,  so  as  to  render  them  of  general  use.  By  Dr.  Watts.  To  which  are 
added  Hymns  and  other  Religious  Poetry  for  Children.  By  Dr.  Doddridge. 
Ninth  edition.  12mo.  pp.  48,  stiff  covers.  1837.  2d. 

Way  (THE)  TO  HAVE  PEACE.  By  S.  E.  De  M.  12mo  sewed, 
pp.  16.  1856.  2cl.  i 

Way  (THE)  OF  TRUTH  ;  or,  a  Mother's*  Teachings^  from  the  Bible. 
•12mo.c«T:oth;pp.iv.  and  202.  1867.  2s.'  f  'f 

WedgWOOd, — The  Principles  o'f  Geometrical  Demonstration,  reduced 
from  the  Original  Conception  of  Spac"e  and  •  Form.  By  H.  Wedgwood,  M.A. 
12mo.  cloth,  pp.  48.  1844.  2s.'  , 

Wedgwood. — ON  THE  DEVELOPMENT*  OF  THE  UNDERSTANDING.  By 
Hensleigh  Wed^wo*  d,  A7I.  12mo.  clo'tn*;  pp.  133.  1848.  3s.  • 


Publications  of  Trdbner  &  Co.  99 

r 

WedgWOOd, — THE  GEOMETRY  OF  THE  THREE  FIRST  BOOKS  OF  EUCLID. 

,  By  Direct  Proof  rVom  Definitions  Alone.  With  an  Introduction  on  the  Prin- 
ciples of  the  Science.  By  Hensleigh  Wedgwood,  M.A.')  1 2mo.  cloth,  pp.  104. 
1856.  3*. 

WedgWOOd, — ON  TEW  ORIGIN  OF  LANGUAGE.  By  HensleighWeo'gwood, 
M.A.,  late  Fellow  of  Christ  College,  Cambridge.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  165.  1866. 
3s.  6d. 

Wedgwood.— ^ A  DICTIONARY  OF  THE  ENGLISH.  LANGUAGE.  By  Hens- 
leigh Wedgwood,  M.A?,  late  F<?Sow  of  Christ's  College,  Cambridge.  Vol.  I. 
(A  to  D)  8vo."  ploth,  pp.  xx'v.  508,  l4s. ;  Vol.  II.  (E  to  P)  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  578, 
,14s.  ;  Vol.  Ili.'P'art  1.  (Q.  to  Sy),  8vo.  pp.  366,  10*.  Qd.  ;  Vol.  III.,  Part  II. 
,(T  to  W)  8vo.,  "ftp.  200,  5s.  Qd.  complete  the  Work.  1859  to  1865.  Price 
of  t'fie  complete  wori4j,h44s. 

"  Dictionaries  are  a  class  of  books  not  usually  esteemed  light  reading  ;  but  no  intelligent  man 
were  tojje  pitied  who  should  find  himself  shut  up  on  a  rainy  day  in  a  lonely  house  in  the 
dreanc.<t  part  of  Salisbury  Plain,  with  no  other  means  of  recreation  than  that  which  Mr.  Wedg- 
woods Dictionary  of  Etymology  couldiiftfford  him.  HVwould  read  it  through  from  cover  to  cover 
••'•'it'  sitting,  and  only  regret  th,i,t  he  had  not  the  second  volume  to  besrin  upon  forthwith.  It  is  a 
very  able"ty>ook,  of  great  »p*G'arch.  .full  of  delightful  surprises,  a  repertory  of  the  fairy  tales  of 
linguistic  science." — Spectator. 

Wekey,— A  GRAMMAR  oV  THE  HUNGARIAN  LANGUAGE,  with  appro- 
priate exercises,  a  copious  vocabulary,  and  specimens  of  Hungarian  poetry.  By 
Sigismund  Wekey,  late  Aide-de-Camp  to  Kossuth.  12mo.  sewed,  pp.  viii.  and 
150.  .1852.  4s.  Gd. 

Weller. — AN  I^PROVE^  DICTIONARY;  English  and  French,  and 
French  and  English,  drawn  from  the  best  Sources  extant  in  both  Languages  ; 
in  which  are  now  first  introduced  many  Technical,  Scientific,  Legal,  Commer- 
cial, Naval,  and  Military  Terms  ;  and  to  which  are  added,  Separate  Vocabularies 
of  Engineering  and  Railway  Terms ;  of  those  descriptive  of  Steam  Power  and 
Steam  Navigation ;  of  Geographical  Names,  and  those  of  Ancient  Mythology, 
and  of  Persons  of  Classical  Antiquity  ;  and  of  Christian  Names  in  present  use  ; 
together  with  an  English  Pronouncing  Dictionary  for  the  use  of  Foreigners.  By 
Edward  Weller,  late  Professor  of  the  Athena3um  and  Episcopal  College  of  Bruges. 
Royal  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  384  and  340.  1864.  7s.  Qd. , 

What  IS  Truth?    Post  8vo.  pp.  124,  cloth.    1854.  3s. 

"Wheeler, — THE    HISTORY   OF   INDIA.        By  J.    Talboys    Wheeler, 

Assistant  Secretary  to  the  Government  of  India  in  the  Foreign  Department, 
Secretary  to  the  Indian  Record  Commission,  Author  of  "  The  Geography  of 
Herodotus,"  etc.  Vol.  I.  containing  the  Vedic  Period  and  the  Maha  Bharata. 
With  a  Map  of  Ancient  India  to  illustrate  the  Maha  Bharata.  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.  Ixxv.  and  576.  1867.  18*. 

The  Second  Volume  containing  the  Ramayana  in  the  Press. 

Wheeler, — HISTORICAL    SKETCHES   OF  NORTH  CAROLINA,  from  1584 

to  1851.  Compiled  from  original  records,  official  documents,  and  traditional 
statements.  With  biographical  sketches  of  her  distinguished  statesmen,  jurists, 
lawyers,  soldiers,  divines,  etc.  By  Jobfr  H.  Wheeler.  Illustrated  with  en- 
gravings. Vol.  I.,  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xxii.  and  480.  1851.  15s. 

Whildilh — MEMORANDA  OF  THE  STRENGTH  OF  MATERIALS  U"^D  IN 
ENGINEERING  CONSTRUCTION'.  Compiled  and  edited  by  J.  K.  Whildin,  Civil 
Engineer.  Second  Edition.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  62.  1867.  8s. 

Whipple.— LITERATURE  AND   LIFE.    'Lectures   by  E.  P.  Whipple, 

Author  of  "  Essays  and  Rev'ews."     8vo.  sewed^pp.  114.     1,851.     Is. 
Whipple, — CHARACTER  AND   CHARACTERISTIC   MEN.      By  Edwin  P. 
^  Whipple.     12mo.  cloth,  pp.  324.     ]8u6.     %s. 

^     » 


100  Publication?  of  Triibner  1$  Co. 

Whitney,  —  LANGUAGE  AND  THE  STUDY  OF  LANGUAGE.  A  Course  of 
Lectures  on  the  Principles  of  Linguistic  Science.  By  William.  D  wight  "Whitney, 
Professor  of  Sanskrit^n  Yale  College,  New  HaVen,  U.S.A.  Crown  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.  500.  1868.  10s.  Qd. 

Whittiei,  —  SNOW  BOUND.  A  Winter  Idyl.  By  John  Greenleaf 
Whittier.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  52.  1866.  6s. 

Whittier,  —  THE  POETICAL  WORKS  OF  JOHN  GREENLEAF  WHITTIER, 
Complete  in  2  vcls.  WLh  a  Portrait.  BJue  and  Gvyld  Series,  c  24mo.  cloth. 
gilt  edges,  pp.  viii.,  395  ;  vi.  420.  1865.  'sb's. 

Whittier,—  MAUD  MULLER.     By  John  G.  Whittier,  -'-With  Illustra- 

tions, by  "W.  J.  Hennessy.     Small  4to.  extra  cloth,  wit^1  gilt  edges  ;  16  leavks, 
printed  on  one  side  only.     18(?6.     12s.         .  *•  0 


WMttier,  —  THE  TENT  ON  THE  BEACH,  AND  OTHER  POEMS. 
Greenleaf  Whittier.     Post  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  vi.  anu  172.     1867.     6s. 

Whittier,  —  THE  PROSE  WORKS  OF  JOHN  'GREENLEAF  WH^TTIER. 
2  vols.,  crown  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.,  473;  viii.,  395.  1866.  £1  Is. 

WMtty,  —  THE  GOVERNING  CLASSES  OF  GRE^T  BRITAIN.  Political 
Portraits.  By  Edward  M.  Whitty,  12mo.  boards,  pp.  vi.  and  288.  With 
Lord  Stanley's  Portrait.  1859.  3s.  6^. 

Who    am    I?      By   the   Author   of   "Warning."       1    vol.,    8vo. 

cloth.     4s.  4.. 

Wikoff,  —  A  NEW  YORKER  IN  THE  FOREIGN  OFFICE,  AND  HIS 
ADVENTURES  IN  PARIS.  By  Henry  Wikoff.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  299.  1858.  6s. 

Williams,  —  FIRST  LESSONS  IN  THE  MAORI  LANGUAGE,  WITH  A 
SHORT  VOCABULARY.  By  W.  L.  Williams,  B.A.  Square  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  80. 

1862.    3s.  ear 

Williams.  —  A  DICTIONARY,  ENGLISH  AND  S4NSCRIT.  By  Monier 
Williams,  M.A.  Published  under  the  patronage  of  the  Honourable  East  India 
Company.  4to.  cloth,  pp.  xii.  and  862.  1855.  £3  3s. 

Williams.  —  LEXICON   CORNU-BRITANNICUM.      A  Dictionary   of   the 

Ancient  Celtic  Language  of  Cornwall,  in  which  the  words  are  elucidated  by 
copious  examples  from  the  Cornish  works  now  remaining,  with  translations  in 
English.  The  synonyms  are  al»o  given  in  the  cognate  dialects  of  Welsh, 
Armoric,  Irish,  Gaelic,  and  Manx,  showing  at  one  view  the  connection  between 
them.  By  the  Rev.  Eobert  Williams,  M.Ag  Christ  Church,  Oxford,  Parish 
Curate  of  Llangadwaladr  and  Ehydycroesan,  Denbighshire.  Sewed.  3  parts. 
pp.  400.  1865.  £2  5s. 

Williams.  —  THE  MIDDLE  KINGDOM.  A  Survey  of  the  Geography, 
Government,  Education,  Social  Life,  Arts,  Religion,  etc.,  of  the  Chinese  Empire 
and  its  inhabitants.  With  a  new  Map  of,  the  Empire.  By  S.  Wells  Williams, 
Author  of  "Easy  Lessons  in  Chinese,''  <fEngl',.h  and  Chinese  Vocabulary," 
"  Tonic  Dictionary  of  the  Chinese  Language."  With  Poi  traits,  Wood-cuts,  and 
Maps.  2  vols.  8vo.,  pp.  viii.  614,  xxii.  and  590.  1861.  £1  Is. 

Willis.  —  ON  THE  SPECIAL,  FUNCTION  OF  THE  SUDORIPAROUS  AND 
LYMPHATIC  SYST^IS,  THEIR  .V-^AL  IMPORT,  AN^J  THEIR  BEARING  ON  HEALTH 
AND  DISEASE.  By  Kobert  Willis,  ^ij).  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  72.  1867. 


Publications  of  Trubner  $  Co.  101 

Wilson, — A  BRIE*  EXAMINATION  OF  PREVALENT  OPINIONS  ON  THE 

IXSPIKATION    O?    THE    SciUPTUKES    OF   THE    OLD    AND    NEW    TESTAMENTS.       By  a 

Lay  Member  of  the  Church  of  England.  With  an  introduction,  by  .Henry 
Bristow > "Wilson,  B.C.,  Vicar  of  Great  Staughton,  H-nts.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  Ixi. 
and  254.  1861.  ,8*.  6K. 

' 

WLrson, — THE  HOLY  BIBLE.  By  the  Eev.  Thomas  Wilson.  (See 
under  Bible.) 

Wilson. — SELECT   SPECIMENS    OF    THE    THEATRE   OF  THE   HINDUS. 

Translated  from  the  Original  Sanskrit.     By    Hcoace  Hayman  "Wilson,  M.A., 

F.R.S.     Se  -oni  Edition.     2  vols.,  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  Ixx.  and  384,  415.     15s. 

CONTENTS.— Vol.  i  ^Preface— Treatise  on  the  Dramatic  System  of  the  Hindus — Dramas  trans- 

111  the  Original  Sanskrit— The  Mriuhchakati,  or  the  Toy  Cart — Vikrama  and  Urvasi,  or 

the  Hero  and  the  Nymph— Uttara  Kama1  Cheritra,  or  continuation  of  the  History  of  Rama'.  Vol.  II. 

—iJramas  translated  from  the  Original  Sanskrit— MalStS  and  MSdhava,  or  the  Stolen  Marriage — 

Mudrri  Rakshasa,  or  the'  Signet  of  the  Minister— Retnavali,  or  the  Necklace— Appendix,  containing 

s\\>\  c  accounts  of  different  Dramas. 

\Vilson, — THE  PRESENT  STATE  OF  THE  CULTIVATION  OF  ORIENTAL 
LITEIIATI  RE.  A  livered  at  the  Meeting  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society. 

By  ihe  Director,  Professor  II.  H.  Wilson.     8vo.  sewed,  pp.  26.     1852.     6d. 

•  i 

Wilson. — WORKS  OF  THE  LATE  HORACE  HAYMAN  WILSON,  M.A., 
F.R.S.,  Member  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Societies  of  Calcutta  and  Paris,  and  of  the 
Oriental  Society  of  Germany,  etc.,  and  Boden  Professor  of  Sanskrit  in  the  Uni- 
versity of  Oxford.  T'ols.  I.  and  II.  Also,  under  this  title,  "  Essays  and 
Lectures  "  chiefly  on  the  Religion  of  the  Hindus,  by  the  late  H.  H.  Wilson, 
M.A.,  F.R.F1.,  etc.  Collected  and  edited  by  Dr.  Reinhold  Rost.  2  vols.,  8vo. 
cloth,  pp.  xiii.  399,  vi.  and  416.  1861-62.  £1  Is. 

Wilson. — WORKS  OF  THE  LATE  HORACE  HAYMAN  WILSON,  M.A., 
F.R.S.,  Member  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Societies  of  Calcutta  and  Paris,  and  of  the 
Oriental  Society  of  Germany,  etc.,  and  Boden  Professor  of  Sanskrit  in  the  Uni- 
versity of  Oxford.  Vols.  III.,  IV.  and  V.  Also,  under  the  title  of  "  Essays 
Analytical,  Critical,  and  Philological-,"  on  subjects  connected  with  Sanskrit 
Literature.  Collected  and  edited  by  Reinhold  Post.  3  vols.,  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  408, 
406,  and  390.  1864-65.  £1  16s. 

Wilson. — WORKS  OF  THE  LATE  HORACE  HAYMAN  WILSON.  Vols.  VI. 
VII.  and  VIII.  Also,  under  the  title  of  the  Vishnu  Purana,  a  system  of  Hindu 
mythology  and  tradition.  Translated  from  the  original  Sanskrit,  and  Illustrated 
by  Notes  derived  chiefly  from  other  Puranas.  By  the  late  H.  H.  Wilson,  Boden 
Professor  of  Sanskrit  in  the  University  of  Oxford,  etc.,  etc.  Edited  by  Fitz- 
edward  Hall,  M.A.,  D.C.L.,  Oxon.  Vols.  I.  to  III.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  cxl.  and 
200,  344,  and  344.  1864-6f  £1  Us.  6d.  [Vols.  IV.  and  V.  in  the  press. 

Wilson. — CATHOLICITY  SPIRITUAL  AND  INTELLECTUAL.  An  attempt 
at  vindicating  the  Harmony  of  Faith  and  Knowledge.  A  series  of  Discourses. 
By  Thomas  Wilson,  M.A.,  late  Minister  of  St.  Peter's  Mancroft,  Norwich, 
Author  of  "  Travels  in  Egypt,"  etc.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  232.  1850.  5s. 

Wilnn, — THE  VILLAGE  PEAR:.  A  Domestic  Poem.  Wi+h.  Miscel- 
laneous Pieces.'  By  John  Crauford  Wilson.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  140. 
1852.  3*.  6d. 

Wilson. — THE  WATER-CUKE,  ITS  PPJNCIPLES  AND  PRACTICE.  A 
Guide  in  the  Preservatir-n  of  Health  and  Cure  of  Chronic  Disease.  With  illus- 
trative cases.  By  James  Wilson. -M.D. '  Fifth  Edition.  8 vo.  sewed,  pp.  725. 
1859.  3s.  6<7. 


102  Publications  of  Trilbner  ty  Co.      • 

Wilson. — PHRASIS  :  a  Treatise  on  the  History  and  Structure  of 
the  different  Languages  of  the  "World,  with  a  comparative  vie\v  of  the  F»rms  of 
their  "Words  and  the  Stvle  of  their  Expressions.  By  J.  "Wilson,  A  M.  8vo.  cloth, 
pp.  viii.  and  384.  1864.  16s. 

Winckelnpnn, — THE  HISTORY  OF  AN/HENT  ART  AMONG  THE  GREEKS. 

By   John  "Winckelmann.      From  the  German,  by  G.  H.  Lodge.     Beautifiiily 
Illustrated.     8vo.  cloth,  pp.  viii.  and  254.     1850.     12s. 

Winer. — GRAMMAR  OF  THE  CHALDEE  LANGUAGE,  as  contained  in  the 
Bible  and  Targums.  By  Dr.  G.  B.  Winer.  Ti  mslated  by  H.  B.  Hatkett.  8vo. 
boards,  pp.  152.  1845.  3s.  6<7. 

Winslov. — A  COMPREHENSIVE  TAMIL  AND  ENGLISH  DICTIONARY  OF 
HIGH  AND  Low   TAMIL.       By   the   Rev.   Miron    Wirislo-y,    D.D.,    American^ 
Missionary,    Madras,    assisted  .by  competent  Native   Scholars :    in  part   froui 
Manuscript  materials  of  the  late  Rev.  Josepii  Knight  and  others.      4to.  bo^ds, 
pp.  xiv.  and  976.     1862.     £3  13*.  Gel. 

Winthrop. — LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  JOHN  WINTHHOP,  Governo*-  of 
the  Massachusetts'  Bay  Company  at  their  emigration  to  ^New  England,  1630. 
By  Robert  C.  Winthrop.  Two  Portraits ;  Plate  of  Groton  Church,  Suffolk ;  and 
facsimile  Autographs.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xii.  and  452.  l'864.  14s. 

Winthrop. — LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  JOHN  WLNTHROP.  Vol.  II.  from 
his  Embarkation  for  New  England,  in  1630,  with  the  Charter  and  Company  of 
Massachusetts'  Bay  to  his  Death,  in  1649.  By  Robert  C.  Winthrop.  Portrait. 
8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xv.  and  483.  1867.  14s. 

Winter  JOURNEY  FROM  GLOUCESTER  TO  NORWAY.  18*no.  sewed, 
pp.  100.  With  a  Map.  1867.  Is.  Qd. 

Wise. — CAPTAIN  BRAND,  of  the  "  Centipede;"  a  Pirate  of  Eminence 
in  the  West  Indies :  his  Loves  and  Exploits,  together  with  some  Account  of  tho 
Singiilar  Manner  in  which  he  departed  this  Life.  By  Lieut.  H.  A.  Wise,  U.S.N. 
12mo.  fancy  cover  , pp.  304.  1860.  2s.  6d. 

Wise. — COMMENTARY  ON  THE  HINDU  SYSTEM  OF  MEDICINE.  By 
T.  A.  Wise,  M.D.,  Bengal  Meuical  Service.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  xx.  and  432.  1845. 
7*.  6rf. 

Witt. — AN  EFFECTUAL  AND  SIMPLE  EEMEDY  FOR  SCARLET  FEVER 
AND  MEASLES.  With  an  Appendix  of  Cases.  By  Charles  Witt.  Fourth 
Edition.  8vo.  sewed,  pp.  32.  1865.  Is. 

Wolfram. — THE  GERMAN  ECHO.  A  Faithful  Mirror  of  German 
Every-day  Conversation.  By  Ludwig  Wolfram.  With  a  Vocabulary,  by  Henry 
Skelton.  Third  Edition.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  69.  1864.  3*. 

Worcester. — A  PRONOUNCING,  EXPLANATORY,  AND  SYNONYMOUS 
DICTIONARY  OP  THE  ENGLISH  LANGUAGE.  By  Joseph  E.  Worcester,  LL.D. 
New  Edition.  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  565.  1864.  7*.  6/7. 

Worthen. — A  CYCLOPEDIA  OF  DRAWING,  designed  as  a  Text-Book 
for  the  Mechanic,  Architect,  Engineer,  and  Surveyor,  comprising  Geometrical 
Projection;  Mechanical,  Architectural,  and  Topographical  Braving,  Perspective, 
and  Isometry.  Edited  by  W.  E.  Worthen.  Royal  8vo.  cloth',  pp.  410.  1864. 
£1  5s. 

Wylie. — NOTES  ON  CHINESE  LITERATUE  ;  with  introductory  Remarks 
on  the  Progressive  Advancement  of  the  Art :  and  a  Ifct  of  translations  from  the 
Chinese  into  various  European  La;  '<\y  A.  Wylie,  Agent  of  the  British 

and  Foreign  Bible  Society  in  China.     4to.  ck'h,  pp.  296.      1868.     £1  10*. 


Publications  of  T-'ubner  $  Co.  103 

Xenos, — EAST  AND  WEST  ;  a  Diplomatic  History  of  the  Annexation 
of  the  Ionian  Oands  to  the  Kingdom  of  Greece.  Accompanied  by  a  Translation 
of  the  Despatches  exchange/  between  the  Greek  Government  and  its  Plenipo- 
tentiary at  London,  and  a' Collection  of  the  Principal  Treaties,  Conventions,  and 
Protocols  concerning  the  Ionian  Islands  and  Greece,  concluded  between  1797 
a^d  1864.  By  Stefanos  Xenos.  Royal  8vo.  cloth,  pp.  iv.  and  304.  1865.  12s. 

Yates. — A  BENGALI  GRAMMAR.     By  the  late  Bev.  W.  Yates,  D.D., 
'     Reprinted,  vith  improvements,  from  his  Introduction  to  the  Bengali  Language. 
Edited  by. I.  Wenger.     Fcap.  8wo.,  boards,  pp.  iv.  and  150.     1864.     3*.  6rf. 

Yates. — Tnr  ELEMENT:  OF  THE  SCIENCE  OF  GRAMMAR,  put  forward 
'  and  explained  ;n  a  totally  different  manner  from  what  they  have  ever  before 
besn,  and  based  on  rigid  definitions,  incontrovertible  axioms,  and  general  prin- 
•-•iplos,  illustrated  by  i  comparison  of  the  structure  of  the  English  and  Turkish 
languages,  so  as  to  be  at  once  an  introduction  to  the  science  of  grammar,  for  all 
v,  iio  wish  to  learn  that  science,  and  a  complete  Turkish  grammar  for  the  student 
of  that  language.  By  Edv  ard  Yates,  .ri.A.,  Barrister-at-Law.  Most  kindly 
amq  valuably  assisted  Ly  ( 'aptuins  Mahmood  and  Hussein,  of  the  Imperial  Guard 
of  the  Sultan,  and  by  Hiry  Bey.  12mo.  cloth,  pp.  ii.  and  226.  1857.  5s. 

Yates, — DESCRIPTIVE   CATALOGUE    OF    A   COLLECTION    OF   CURRENT 

COINS  OF  ALL  COIXTIU^S,  in  the   International  Exhibition.     Class  13,  North 
Gallery.     By  James  Yates,  M.A.,  F.R.S.     12mo.  sewed,  pp.  69.     1862.     6rf. 

Zeller. — STRAUSS  AND  EENAN.  An  Essay  by  E.  Zeller.  Translated 
from  the  German,  witn  Introductory  Remarks  by  the  Translator.  Post  8vo. 
cloth,  pp.  110.  1866.  2s.  Gd. 


MAGAZINES. 

.thropological   EEVIEW  (THE).  Published  Quarterly,  at  4s.  each 

each  number. 

Chess  WORLD  (THE).    Published  monthly,  at  Is.  each  number. 

Englishwoman's  EEVIEW  (THE).    Published  quarterly,  at  Is.  each 
number. 

Geological  MAGAZINE  (THE).     Published  monthly,  at  Is.  6d.  e 
number. 

Journal   OF    THE    EOYAL    ASIATIC    SOCIETY   OF    GREAT  BRITAIN 

AND  IBELAND  (THE).     Published  twice  a  year. 

Orthodox  CATHOLIC  EEVIEW  (THE).      Published  monthly,    at   6d. 
each  number. 

Triibner's  AMERICAN  AND  ORIENTAL  LITERARY  EECORD.     Published 
monthly,  at  Qd.  eaca  number. 

Westminster  EEVIEW  (THE).      Published  quarterly,    at   6s.  each 
number. 


A  LIST  of  the  PUBLICATIONS  of  TRUBNER  &  C3,,  in  the  RUSSIAN 
LANGUAGE,  may  be  had  on  Application, 


LONDON : 

PR1NTBD   VI    WEnTHEIHER,   LEA  AND   CO. 
FIN6BOKT  CIKCU8. 


UNIVERSITY  OF  ILLINOIS-URBANA 


ORIGINAL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS  ON  THE  ORIGIN  AN 


