LI  B 

OF  THE. 

UNIVERSITY 
OF    ILLINOIS 

294.1 
M89o 

1868 
v.4 


Return  this  book  on  or  before  the 
Latest  Date  stamped  below. 

Theft,   mutilation,   and   underlining   of  books 
are  reasons  for  disciplinary  action  and  may 
result  in  dismissal  from  the  University. 
University  of  Illinois  Library 


Di 


MA 


APR 
JULl 


1377 
41977 


L161— O-1096 


ORIGINAL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS 


THE  PEOPLE  OF  INDIA, 

• 

THEIR  RELIGION  AND  INSTITUTIONS, 

COLLECTED,    TRANSLATED,     AND    ILLUSTRATED, 

BT 

J.  MTJIK,  D.C.L.,  LL.D.,  PH:D., 

,011111    I'GNDING   MEMBEK  OF  THE   ROYAI    PRUSSIAN   ACADEMY   OF  SCIENCES,   AX»   OF   THE  AMKRICAN 

.  .  I   OP  THE   FIU  NCH    ACADEMY   OF   INSCRIPTIONS   AND 

UE1.J.ES    I.K'ITRES,   HONORARY    MEMBEK   OF    THE   GERMAN   ORIENTAL   SOCIETY, 
AND   FOREIGN   MEMBER   OF   THE    i  \RY   SOCIETY. 


VOLUME 

• 

OF   THE   TEDIC   WITH   THE   LATER   ItEPRESEXTATIONS   OF   THE 
TKIXCIPAL     INDIAN     DITTIES. 

SECOND    EDITION,    REVISED. 


LONDON: 
&  CO.,  57  AND  59,  LUDGATE  HILL. 

'; 
(All  rights  reserved.) 


. 


•       HERTFORD  : 
PBIKTBD  BY  STEPHEN  AUSTJH  AND  SONS. 


PREFACE  TO  THE  FIRST  EDITION.* 


THE  object  which  I  have  had  in  view  in  the  present 
Volume  is  to  compare  the  representations  which  are 
given  of  the  Indian  duties  Brahma.  Vishnu,  and  Kudra, 
and  of  the  goddess  Ambikfi,  in  the  Vedic  hymns  and 
Brahmanas,  with  the  accounts  which  we  find  in  the 
legendary  poe*ms  called  Itijiasa^  and  Puranas,  and  to 
show,  so  far  as  the  materials  at  our  command  will  allow, 
to  what  extent,  and  by  what  steps  in  each  case,  the  earjier 
conceptions  were  gradually  modified  in  the  later  works.  , 

The  First  Chapter  (pp.  3-62)  treats  of  the  deity  who 
is  c1  ascribed  in  the  later  hymns  of  the  Kig-veda,  and  in 
the  Atharva-veda,  under  the  different  titles  of  Visva- 
'.arman,  Hirauyagarbha,  and  Prajapati,  and- appears  to 
correspond  with  the  Brahma,  of  the  more  modern  legend- 
ary books. 

Though  this  god  was  originally  unconnected  with 
Vishnu  and  B^idra,  while  at  a  subsequent  period  he 
came  to  "be  regarded  in  systematic  mythology  as  the 
first  person  in  the*  triad  of  which  they  formed  the  seconfl 
and  third  members  ?  yet  the  general  idea  entertained  of 
his  character,  if  at  all  altered,  has  been  less  modified  in 
the  coui-se  of  *his  history  than  is  the  case  in  regard  to 
the  otber  two  deities. 

*  [With  the  exception  of  the  notes  ir,  pages  ,i.,  viu,"and  x.,  and  the  alterations 
in  the  figure  showing  the  pages  in  which  t1  .  several  chapters  and  sections  hegin 
and  end,  rendered  necessary  by  the  addL'.oiis  maue  in  this  second  edition,  this 
preface  is  reprinted  nearly  as  it  originally  stood,] 


vi  PREFACE.  .      - 

• 

Brahma  was  from  the  beginning  con  i(r  the 

'Creator,  and  he  continued  to  be  regarded  as'fuiu.  iiL  the 
same  function  even  after  he  had  sunk  into  a  .su.boifdV.-i> 
position,  and  had  come  to  be  represented  by  the  votaries 
of  Yishnu  and  Mahadeva  respectively  as  the  mere  crea- 
ture and  agent  of  one  or  other  of  those  two  gods  (see  pp. 
188,  194,  230,  267,  273).  In  later  times  Brahma  has 
had  few  special  worshippers;  the  6nly  spot  where  he 
is  periodically  adored  being  at  Pushkara  in  Eajputana.* 
Three  of  the  acts  which  the  earlier  legends  ascribe  to 

»  See  Professor  H.  H.  Wilson's  Essaj  on  the  Padma  Parana,  in  the  Journal  of  the 
Royal  Asiatic  Society,  Vol.  V.,  p.  309,  reprinted  in  vol.  iii.  of  his  collected  works, 
pp.  74  f. ;  and  the  same  author's  Oxford  Lectures,  p.  21.  In  the  preface  to  his 
edition  of  the  Narada  Pancharatra,  published  in  the  Bibliotheca  Indicu  in  1865,  p.  4, 
the  Eev.  K.  M.  Bauerjea  refers  to  this  subject:  "Of  the  three  select  divinities," 
(Brahma,  Vishnu,  and  S'iva)  "  the  .nrst,  however,  had  Liever  become  an  object  of 
special  adoration,  having  been  guilty  of  an  incestuous  attempt  on  his  own  daughter." 
(See  pp.  45  ff.  of  this  volume.)  "  The  incident  is  thus  accounted  for  in  the  work 
now  presented  to  the  public."  The  words  referred  to  will  be  quoted  below.  They 
occur  in  the  tenth  section,  w.  30  f.  It  had  been  previously  related  that  Brahma 
had  exhorted  his  son  Narada  to  take  a  wife  and  so  people  the  v 
mahabhaga  J;rit\-a  dara-parigrahaiii,  v.  5).  Hereupon  Narada,  who  was  a  votary  of 
Krishna,  becomes  angry,  affirms  that  devotion  to  that  god  is  the  sole  way  to  attain 
felicity,  and  denounces  his  father  as  an  erring  instructor  (vv.  7-22).  Brahma  in 
reply  curses  Narada,  and  dooms  him  to  a  life  of  sensuality  and  subjection  to  women, 
etc.  (vv.  23-29).  Narada  pays  back  the  imprecation  in  the  lines  translated  by  Mr. 
Banerjea,  which  I  give  ir  the  original,  with  some  of  those  that  follow :  Tatasya 
vaehanam  srtttva  chukopa  IJarado  muniJi  |  sasapa  pitarai'  /arimam  eha 

yathochitam  |  <31.  Apujyo  bhava  dushta  tvaih  fatn-mantropasakah  kiitah  |  wmm-ija- 
»*hha  te  bhavishy  >/ah  \  32.  Naradasya  ti  sapthft  so  pujyojagatam 

V.Mih\  uriMc~i  xva-kainja-rupam  chapasfftad dhavitavan pura\  33.  Punah  svadeham 
tatijaja  bharsitah  Siiitakadibhih  \  lajjitah  kama-yuJetas  dm  punc.r  Brahma  babhuva 
sah  |  34.  Naradns  tu  namaskritya  pitaram  kdmalodbha^am  \  vipra-deham  parity ajy a 
gandharvas  cha  babhuva  sah  \  30.  "Hearing  the  words  of  his  father,  the  muni 
Narada  became  incensed,  and  straightway  cursed  'nim  dreadfully,  as  was  befitting. 
31.  'Wretch,  become  no  object  of  adoration:  how  shall  any  one  be  devoted  to  the 
forms  of  thy  worship?  Thou  shalt  without  doubt  lust  after  he'-  who  is  no  fit  object  of 
,thy  desires.'  32.  Through  this  curse  of  Narada,  tiae  creator  of  the  world  Ceased  to  be 
an  object  of  worship.  Beholding  the  beauty  of  his  daughter,  he  formerly  ran  after 
her.  33.  Afterwards,  being  rcpr  iched  '  y  Sanaka  and  others,  he  abandoned  his 
corporeal  form.  Brahma  afterwards  ,  iame  ashamed,  being  a  slave  to  last.  34.  And 
Nai-ada,  having  made  obeisance  to  his  "otus-born  father,  forsook  his  Brahmanical 
body,  and  became  a  Gandharva."  His  loves  are  then  related. 


PREFACE.  vii 

o 

him.  o-  +r  ushra,  the  assumption  of  the  forms  of  a 
torto^  ,  00  ir,*  and  a  fish,  are  in  later  works  trans- 
fe  en  to  Vishnu  (see  pp.  27,  33  f.,  36  and  38). 

Tne  Second  Chapter  (pp.  63-298)  first  of  all  describes 
the  original  conception  of  Vishnu  as  he  is  celebrated  in 
the  hymns  of  the  Eig-veda  (pp.  63-97).  The  particular 
attribute  by  which  he  is  there  distinguished  from  every 
other  deity  is  that  of  ^kiding  across  the  heavens  by  three 
paces.  This  phrase  is  interpreted  by  one  of  the  ancient 
commentators  as  denoting-  the  °  threefold  ihanifestations 
of  light,  as  fire  on  eart'n,  as  lightning  in  the  atmosphere, 

^  •  , 

and  as  the  sun, in  the  s*ky ;  and  -by  another  as  designat- 
ing the  tftfee  stages  of  the  sun's  daily  movement,  his 
rising,  culmination,  and  setting.  The  latter  explanation 
seems  to  satisfy  Best  the  idea  'of  movement  expressed 
in  the  description;  but  the  conception  is  not  distinctly 
developed  in  any  of  the  texts.  Some  of  the  highest 
divine  functions  and  attributes  are  also  assigned  to 
Vishnu;  and  we  might  thus  be  led  to  suppose  that 
the  authors  of  these  hymns  regarded  him  as  the  Supreme 
Deity.  But  this  supposition  is  invalidated  by  the  fact 
that  Indra  is  sometimes  associated  with  Vishnu  in  the 
performance  of1  fthese  functions,  and  that  several  other 
deities  are  magni^ed  in  terms  of  similar  import  (pp.  97*^- 
114).  The  Third  Section  (pp.  114-121)  treats  of  Vishnu 
as  one  of  the  sons  of  Aditi.  The  origin  here  assigned  to 
this  god-woulcl  lead  us  to  conclude  that  he  was  origin- 
ally considered  as  of  no  higher  rank  than  the  other 

beings  who  bear  the  same  name  of  Adjltyas.    The  Fourth 

i>  "»  "^    „.- ' 

*  Compare  the  passrge  from  the  Tattir  ya  Sanhita,  vii.  1,  5,  1,  quoted  in  the 
first  volume  of  this  work,  p.  52.  , 


viii  PEEFACE.  c 

1 1 

Section  (pp.  121-156)  contains  the  legends  relating  to  the' 
4same  god  in  the  Brahmanas,  in  which  fre  is  identified 
with  sacrifice ;  while  in  one  of  them  he  is  spoken  of  s 
a  dwarf.  The  later  accounts  of  the  dwarf  incarnation  are 
next  adduced  as  recorded  in  the?  Eamayana,  the*  Maha- 
bharata, and  in  the  Vishnu  and  Bhagavata  Puranas.  In 
the  Fifth  Section  a  passage  is  quoted  from  the  Nirukta 
(pp.  156  if.),  in  which  the  gods  uije  classified,  and  the 
most  prominent  places  are  assigned  to  Agni,  Vayu  or 
Indra,  and  Surya,  who  seem  -to  have  been  regarded  by 
the  author  as  the  tria<L  of  deities  in  whom  the  Supreme 
Spirit  was  Especially  revealed,  while  Vislmu  and  Eudra 
are  merely  mentioned  as  gods  who  were  worsi^'pped  con- 
jointly with  Indra  and  Soma,  respectively.  The  later 
triad  of  Brahma,  Vishnii  and  Eudra,  seems  therefore  to 
have  bedn  then  unknown.  The  remainder  of  this  Section 
(pp.  163-298),  and  pp.  441-491  of  the  Appendix,  are 
chiefly  occupied  by  quotations  from  the  Eamayana  and 
Mahabharata,  containing  a  great  variety  of  details  re- 
lating to  Eama  and  Krishna,  the  two  heroes  who  came 
ultimately  to  be  regarded  as  the  principal  incarnations  of 
Vishnu ;  and  an  attempt  is  made  by  arj-  examination  of 
these  texts  to  elucidate  the  question  Aether  or  not  a 
divine  nature  was  ascribed  to  these  tf»vo  personages  by 
the  authors  of  the  two  poems  as  they  originally  stood. 
The  passages  adduced  from  the  Mahabharata  relating  to 
iCrishna  make  frequent  mention  of  Mah^deva  also,  and 
illustrate  the  conceptions  entertained  of<  him  e,t  that 
epoch  of  Indian  hjlstory  when  they  were  composed;  This 
Section  contains  also  maii^  texts  which  indicate  the  exist- 
ence of  a  strong  rivalry  bjeiween  the  adherents  of  these 


PREFACED  ix 

r 

two  gods.  In  different  passages  here  cited,  Vishnu  and 
Eudra  (Mahadeva)  are  both  described  by  their  respective 
votaries  as  one  with  the  Supreme  Spirit;  while  in  some 
places  they  are  identified  with  one  another. 

The  Third  Chapter*  ftp.  299-437)  traces  the  mytho- 
logical history  of  Eudra  as  he  is  represented  in  the  Eig- 
veda  (pp.  299-320),  in  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita  (321- 
331),  in  the  Atharva-Veda  (332-339),  in  the  Brahmanas 
and  Mahabharata  (339-355),  in  the  Upanishads  (355- 
363),  and  in  various  furthe?  texts  .from  the  Itihasas  and 
Puranas  which  describe  some*  e»f  this  god's  proceedings, 
and  indicate  t>.o  struggles  of  his  votaries  to  introduce 
his  worship,  as  illustrated  in  the  story  of  Daksha's 
sacrifice  (363-393).  A  summary  of  the  conclusions 
deducible  from  these  Sections  is  given  in  pp.  393-405. 
Pages  405-420  contain  an  inquiry  into  the  origin 
of  the  Linga  worship, — though  unfortunately  nothing 
better  than  a  negative  result  is  obtained; — and  into 
the  question  whether  or  not  Mahadeva' s  worship  was 
most  prevalent  in  the  South  of  India  in  the  epic  era. 
This  Chapter  concludes  with  an  account  of  the  different 
representations  o£  the  goddess  called  variously  Anibika, 
Uma,  Kali,'  Karali\  Parvati,  Durga,  etc.,  which  we  find 
in  the  Kena  and  Mvandaka  Upanishads,  in  the  Taittirlya 
Aranyaka,  in  the  Elmayana,  Harivaiiisa,  and  Maha- 
bharata,  and  in  the  Maikandeya  Puraria  (pp.  420-437). 

A  further  indication  of  the  various  matters  illustrated 
in  this  Volume  will  be  obtained  by  consulting  the  Index 
under  the  names  Brahma^  Vishnu,  Eama,  Krishna, 
Uma,  etc. 

It  will  be  apparent  to  all  Sanskrit  scholars  that  the 


V    ' 

x  tPREFACE.  « 

main  results  at  which  I  have  arrived  in  regard  to 
4  Vishnu,  Eudra,  and  Ambika,  are  not  new.  Eosen  (in 
the  notes  to  Jttis  translation  of  the  E.V.  p.  li.),  Burnouf 
(Pref.  to  Bhagt  Pur.  vol.  iii.  p.  xyii.),  whose  remarks 
are  subjoined  inca  note,*  and  'Wilson  (Pref.(  to  transl. 
of  E.Y.  i.  p.  xxxiv.),  had  already  drawn  attention  to  the 
text  of  Yaska  and  to  the  Commentary  of  Durga,  by 
which  it  is  shown  that  the  thre$  Steps  of  Vishnu  were 
interpreted  ]>y  the  ancient  commentators  in  the  manner, 
which  I  have  indicated  in  pp7  6^  ff. 

In  the  same  way  Wilsofij  "Weber,  and  Whitney  (see  pp. 
394  if.  of  this  Volume),  had' pointed  ouk^at  the  Eudra 
of  the  Eig-veda  is  very  different  from  thdi  Eudra  or 
Mahadeva  of  the  Puranas.  And  in  pp.  421  ff.  I  have 
quoted^ the  dissertations  of  Professor  Weber  on  the 
mythological  history  of  Ambika  or  Uma.  The  whole, 
therefore,  that  I  can  claim'  to  have  effected  is  to  have 
brought  together,  and  to  have  illustrated  to  the  best  of 
my  power,  all  the  most  important  texts  which  I  could 

*  "  We  can  at  this  day  go  further  still,  and  affirm  that  the  Vishnu  of  the  Vedas 
is  in  no  way  the  Vishnu  of  the  mythologists.  A  commentator  of  a  certain  authority, 
Durgacharya,  explaining ,  the  Nirukta  of  Yaska,  when  he  arrives  at  the  text  of 
Medhatithi  published  by  Eosen,"  (i.e.  R.V.  i.  22,  17  ff.)  "/jys  positively  that  Vishnu 
is  the  sun,  either  because  he  enters  into  the  heaven,  or  yicfeuse  he  -entirely  occupies 

C-it.  This  interpretation,  which  he  derives  from  Yaska,  himself,  leaves  no  doubt  on 
the  question  what  we  are  to  understand  by  the  Vishnu  ^f  the  Vedas,  who  takes  three 
steps.  It  is  manifestly  the  luminary  of  day  regarded  in  the  three  principal  moments 
of  his  course,  his  rising,  meridional  position,  and  setting ;  and  there  is  none  of  the 
expressions  of  the  Vedic  texts  in  which  this  god  appears,  making  himself  in  three 

'  steps  master  of  the  celestial  vault,  to  vhich  this  explanation  given  by  Yaska  several 
centuries  before  our  era  does  not  apply.  We  learn  by  fhif-  example  "what  prudence 
it  is  indispensable  to  bring  to  the  studies  by  thn  aid  of  whj  :h  criticisry  must  restore 
the  chain  which  connects  the  mythical  development  of  the,Indian  religion  with  the 
conceptions  of  the  pricAive  n^.turalism  of  the  Vedas.  Neither  the  identity  of  the 
names,  nor  even  that  of  the  se:nV  Js  L  srf3iciently  sure  guide ;  and  jjhe  ideas,  though 
originally  simple,  are  clothec!  in  foriv  either  so  different,  f>r  so  easy  to  be  confounded, 
that  we  cannot  judge  of  the  detail^  without  having  understood  and  embraced  the 
whole."  r 


PREFACE..    ,  xi 

discover  to  have  any  bearing  on  the  subjects  which  I 
have  handled. 

My  best  thanks  are  due  to  the  different  scholars  who 
are  mentioned  in  the  Bourse  of  the  Work  as  having  given 
me  assistance ;  and  in  particular  to  Professor  Aufrecht, 
whose  name  recurs  perpetually  in  the  following  pages, 
and  who  has  favoured  me  with  the  most  valuable  sugges- 
tions and  information  in*respect  particularly  to  the  sense 
of  the  Yedic  texts,  which  long  and  careful  study  has 
rendered  him  so  competent  itr  interpret. 


i 


PREFACE  TO  THE  SECOND  EDITION. 


WITH  the  exception  of  a  variety  of  additions,  inter- 
spersed through  the  work,  which  in  all  fill  about  60  pp., 
but  little  alteration  kas^aen  made  in  this  Edition. 
The  most  important^  additions,  chiefly  in  notes,  will  be 
found  in  fcp.  39  f.,  78tf.,  12jg^31,  13§  f.,  143  f.,-151- 
156,  165,  167,  200-203,  255  f.,  261  f.,  2^r,(278,  289  f., 
298,  301-303,  304,  310,  314  f.,  317,  321,  327  ff.,  337, 
341,  347  f.,  381,  393/403,  406,  416" f.,  420,  425,  441  f., 
456,  464  f.,  472,  474,  476,  491-493,  494,  496,  and  in 
the  "Additional  Notes."  The  addition  in  pp.  151-156, 
from  the  Matsya  Purana,  contains  a  statement  (unusual, 
if  not  altogether  unknown  in  other  Indian  works)  in 
reference  to  Vishnu's  incarnations,  which  represents 
seven  of  them  as  being  the  result  of  a  curse  uttered 
against  the  god"  by  S'ukra,  the  priest  of  the  Asuras, 
whose  mother  he  (Vishnu)  had  slwa.  At  the  same 
°'  time  it  is  affirmed,  strangely  enough."  that  these  in- 

/  <-7          v  (I    <_*        / 

carnations,  though  occasioned  by  a  curse,  were  intended 
for  the  repression  of  unrighteousness  when  it  should 
become  dominant  on  the  earth. 


- 


CONTENTS. 


v.— xii.  PREFACES. 

1,  2.  PLAN  OF  THE 
3 — 62.  CHAPTER  I.  TEXTS  FROM  THE  YEDIC  HYMNS,  BEAH- 
MANAS,  AND  '  PFEANAS,  ETC.,  EELATING  TO  THE  CEEATION 
OF  THE  UNIVEESE,  AUr>  TO  THE  DEITIES  YISVAKAEMAN, 
DAKSHA,  ADITI,  HIEANYAGAEBHA,  SKAMBHA,  PEAJAPATI, 
PUEUSHA,  KAEAI^^A,  AND  PEAHMA.  * 

3 — 20.  SECi.  I.     Texts  from  the  Rig  and  Atharra-vedas  regarding 

the  creation  andfsome  of  the  deities  just  named. 
20 — 62.  SECT.  II.  Creation;  primeval  waters;  mundane  egg; 
Brahma  or  Prajapati;  morality  of  the  Indian  gods; 
creation  of  the  gods,  etc. ;  according  to  the  S'atapatha 
Brahmana,  Manu,  the  Ramayana,  the  Yishnu  and 
Bhagavata  Puranas,  and  the  Harivamsa. 

63 — 298.  CHAPTER  II.  YISHW,  AS  EEPEESENTED  IN  THE  YEDIC 
HYMNS,  THE  BEAHMANAS,  THE  ITIHASAS,  AND  THE 
PITEANAS.  , 

63 — 97.  SECT.  I.     ?assages  in  the  Hymns  of  the  Rig-veda  relating 

to  Yisjini. 

97 — 114.  SECT.  II.  Subordinate  position  occupied  by  Yishnu  in 
the  Hymns  o,f  the  Rig-veda,  as  compared  with  other 
deities,  Indra,  Yaruna,  etc. 

114 — 121.  SECT.  III.  Vishnu  as  one  of  the  twelve  Adityas,  accord- 
ing to  the  Mahabharata  an-i  Puranas. 

121—156.  SECT.  IY/  Stories  regarding  Yishnu  from  the  S'atapatha 
Brahmana,  the  Taittiriya  Aranyakp.^  the  Panchavimsa 
Brahmana,  the  Ramayaua.  *ae  Mahabharata,  and  the 
Puranas. 


xir       \  CONTENTS. 

c 

PAGES.  ,  • 

156 — 298.  SECT.  V.  Vishnu,  as  ropresented  in  the  Nirukta,  and  his 
character  and  incarnations  as  described  in  the  Ramayana, 
Mahabharata,  and  Puranas ;  with  Notices  of  Mahadeva. 

299—437.  CHAPTER    III.      RUDRA^  OR  '  MAHADEYA,   AND    AMBIKA 

OB,  TJviA,  AS  REPRESENTED  Iff  THE  VfiDIC  HYMNS,  BRAH- 
MAN AS  AND  UPANISHADS,  AND  IN  THE  IlIHASAS  AND 
PtJRANAS. 

299 — 320.  SECT.    I.      Rudra,  as  represented  in  the  Hymns  of  the 

Rig-veda. 
321 — 331.  SECT.    II.     Passage^  elating  to  Rudra,  and  to  Ambika, 

from  the  Y/,jasaneyi  Sanhita  of  the  white  Yajur-veda. 
332 — 339.  <SECT.  III.     Pagsag'es  relating  to  Rudra,  Bhava,  S'arva,  etc., 

from  the  Atharva-vetm. 
339 — 355.  SECT.  IV.     Passages  relating  to  Rudra  froni  the  Satapatha 

and  S'ankhayana  Brahmanas;  and  from  the  Mahabharata. 
355 — 363.  SECT.  V.  Passages  relating  to  Rudra  from  the  Upanishads. 
363 — 39-3.  SECT.  VI.  Some  further  texts  from  the  Itihasas  and 

Puranas  relative  to  Rudra. 
393 — 420.  SECT.    VII.      Conclusions  deducible  from  the  preceding 

sections  in  regard  to  the  mythological  history  of  Rudra : 

inquiry  in  regard  to  the  origin  of  the  Linga  worship, 

and  the  question  whether  in  the  epic  era  Rudra  was 

especially  worshipped  in  the  South  of  India. 
420 — 437.  SECT.  VIII.     Earlier  and  later  representations  of  Ambika, 

TJma,  Kali,  Karall,  Parvati,  or  Ifirga,  according  to  the 

Vajasaneyi  Sanhita,  the  Kena  ai/U  Mundaka  Upanishads, 

the   Taittinya  Aranyaka,   the?  Mahabharata,   and  the 

Puranas. 

439 — sol.  APPENDIX,  CONTAINING  CORRECTIONS  AND  ADDITIONAL  TEXTS. 
439.  NOTE  A.     Passage  ,from  the  TJttara  Kanda  of  the  Rama- 

yana  regarding  the  creation  by  Prijapati. 
439 — 441.  NOTE  B.     Passage  from  the  Ramayafia  regarding  Vishnu's 

thre£  steps. 
441.  NOTE  C.     Re^erice  rto  some  variations  in  the  text  of 

Schlegel  s  and  t>e  Bombay  Ram^yana. 


CONTENTS. 
*  > 

' 

PAGES. 

441 — 491.  NOTE  D.     Passages  from  the  Ramayana  and  Mahabharata 

relating  to  the  legendary  history  of  Rama,    and  the 

question  whether  in  the  oldest  text  of  the  former  poem 

he  was  represented  as  an  incarnation  of  Vishnu. 

491 — 493.  NOTE  E.      Quotations   from   the   Tanclya  Mahabrahmana 

t  regarding  the  "Yatis.  « 

494.  NOTE  F.     Opinions  of  Professors  Roth  and  Aufrecht  re- 
garding the  meanings  of  the  root  sru. 

494. .  NOTE  G.     Quotation  from  the  Rarqayaua  regarding  Ravana. 
494 — 497.  NOTE  H.     Story  of  Indra  and  Indrajit. 
497 — 500.  NOTE  I.     Hymn  x.  127  of  theRigveda;  and  Durga-stava, 

or  Ratrisukta. ,     , 

500 — 501.  NOTE  J.     Quotation  from  the  "Jlarkandeya  Purana  regard- 
ing th,e  tongues  of  Agni.    , 
502 — 508.  ADDITIONAL  NOTES    AOT    COBEECTIONS,    including    further 

-   remarks  and  quotations  regarding  the  word  S'ipivishta. 
509 — 524.  IKDEX.        > 


\ 


ORIGINAL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS. 


IFOTJZRTH. 


PLAN  OF  THE  PRESENT  VOLUME. 

REFERENCE  has  already  been  made  in  the  second  volume  of  this  work 
(pp.  212-216,  1st  ed.)1  to  the  great  difference  which  if  discoverable 
between  the  mythology  of  the  Vecfas  and  that  of  the  Indian  epic  poems 
and  Puranas ;  and  this  difference  was  there  illustrated  by  comparing 
the  representations  of  Vishnu  and  Rudra  which  are  given  in  the  hymns 
of  the  Rig-veda  with  those  which  we  find  in  the  productions  of  a 
later  age.  On  the  same  occasion  I  intimated  my  intention  of  treating 
the  same  subject  in  greater  detail  in  a  subsequent  portion  of  my  work. 
In  pursuance  of  this  design,  I  propose  to  collect  in  the  present  volume 
the  most  important  texts  regarding  the  origin  of  the  universe,  and  the 
characters  of  the  three  principal  Indian  gods,  which  occur  in  the  Vedic 
hymns  and  Brahmanas,  and  to  compare  these  passages  with  the  later 
narratives  and  popular  speculations  on  the  same  subjects  which  are 
to  be  found  in  the  Mahabharata,  the  Ramayana,»and  the  Puranas. 

This  gradual  modification  of  Indian  mythological  conceptions  will 
indeed  be  found  tt>  haxe  already  commenced  in  the  Rig-veda  itself, 
if  we  compare  its  lateriwith  its  earlier  portions;  it  becomes  more 
clearly  discernible  when  we  descend  from  the  hymns  to  the  Brah- 
manas ;  and  continues  to  exhibit  itself  still  more  prominently  in  the 
Puranic  writers,  who,  through  a  long»course  of  ages,  gave  free  scope* 
to  their  fancy  in  the  embellishment  of  (Ad,  and  the  invention  of  new, 
stories  in  nonour  of  their  favourite  gods,  till  at  last  the  repre- 
sentations given  of  the  most  popular  divinities  became  not  only  at 

1  The  postage  occurs  at  pp.  201-204  of  the  2nd  ed. 
VOL.  iv.  1 


\ 

2  PLAN  OF  THE  PRESENT  VOLUME.  f 

i 

variance  with  the  characteristics  ascribed  te'their  prototypes  in  the 
Vedas,  but  even  in  some  respects  different  from  thi  descriptions  which 
occur  in  the  older  Puranas  themselves.  ' 

These  successive  mutations  in  Indian  mythology  need  not  occasion 
us  any  surprise,  at,  they  merely  afford  another  exemplification  of  a 
process  which  may  be  remarked  in  the  history  of  all  nations  which 
have  given  free  scope  to  thought,  to  feeling,  and  to  imagination,  in 
matters  of  religion. 

In  carrying  out  the  plan  just  sketched,  I  shall,  first  of  all,  quote 
the  texts  in  the  Vedic  Hymns  which  refer  to  the  creation  of  the  world, 
and  to  the  deities  Visvakarman,  Hiranyagarbha,  Prajapati,  etc. ;  these 
shall  be  succeeded  (2)  by  passages,  from  the  Brahmanas,  and  (3)  by 
quotations  from  Manu,  Ifne  Mahabharata,  the  Ramayana,  and  the 
Puranas  having  reference  to  thG^ame  subjects. 

I  shall  then  proceed  in  a  similar  Border  with  the  various  texts  which 
relate  to  the  gods  Yishnu  and  Rudra,  and  the  goddess  Ambika,  with 
occasional  notices  of  other  Indian  deities. 


, 

CHAPTER  I. 

TEXTS  FROM  THE  VEDIC  .HYMNS,  BRAHMANAS,  AND  PURANAS, 
ETC.,  RELATING  TO  THE  CREATION  OF  THE  UNIVERSE,  AND 
TO  THE  DEITIES  VIS'VAKARMAN,  BRAHMANASPATI,  DAKSHA, 
ADITI,  HIRANYAGARBHA,  SKAiilBGA,  PRAJAPATI,  PURLTSHA 
NARAYANA,  BRAHMA,  ETC.  '  > 

^  • 

SECI.  I. — Texts  from' the  Rig-  and  Atharva-vedas  regarding  the  creation 
and  some  of  the  deities  just  named. 

SPECULATIONS    ABOUT    CREATION, — BIG-YEDA,    x.    129   (  =  TAITTIB!YA 
BRAHMANA,  ii.  8,  9,  3).  J 

R.  V.  x.  129,  1  ff.1 — Na  asad  dsld  no  sad  dslt  taddnlm  na  dsld  rajo 
no  vyoma  paro  yat  \  kim  dvarwah  kuha  kasya  sarmann  ambhah  kirn  dsld 
gahanam  galhlram  \  2.  Na  mrityur  dsld  amritam  na  tarhi  na  rdtrydh 
ahnah1  dslt  praketah  \  dnld  avdtam  svadhayd  tad  elcam  tasmdd  ha  any  ad 
na  parah  kinchandsa  \  3.  Tamah  dslt  tamasd  gulham  agre2  apraJcetam 

salilam  sarvam  dh  idam  \  tuchhyena  dbhv  apihitam  yad  dslt  tapasas  tad 

• 

1  The  Vishnu  Purana,M.  i.\  21  f.,  quotes  (from  some  source  which  is  not  indicated) 
a  verse  which  seems  to  ^e  in  some  degree  founded  on  the  text  before  us,  and  employs 
it  in  support  of  the  Sankhya  doctrine  of  Pradhana :   Veda-vada-vido  viprah  niyatah 
Brahma-vadinah  \  pathanti  vai  tain  evartham  Pradhana-pratipadatcam  \  22.   Naho 
na  ratrir  na  nabho  na  bhumir  naslt  tamo  jyotir  abhud  na  va   'nyat  \  srotradi- 
buddhyanupalabhyam  ekam  pradhayikam  Brahma  pumaihs   tadastt  \   "  Brahmans 
learned  in  the  tenets  of  the   Veda,   firm  assertors  of  its  principles,  repeat  the  • 
following  statement  estaWishing  the  doctrine  of  Pradhana  :  22.  '  There  was  neither 
day  nor  night,  neither  s?ty  nor  earth;  there  wls  neither  darkness  nor  light,  nor 
anything  else.  *There  was  then  the  One,  Brahma  possessing  the  character  of  Pradhana, 
the  Male,  incoraprefiensiWe'  by  the  ear,  or  other  senses,  or  by  the  intellect.'  "     See 
Dr.  Hall's  ed.  of  Wilson's  V.  P  ,  vol.  i.,  pps2*ff.,  wiSh  the  Editor's  notes. 

2  These  words* are  quoted  by  Kulluka  or  Mann,  i.  5,  of  which  passage  this  may 
be  the  germ.    In  the  S'att^atha  Brahmana,  x.  6,  5,  1  (=Brihad  Aranyaka  Upan- 


V 
4  '    EIGVEDA  x.  129;   OEIGIN  OF  THE  iJNIVERSE.  t 

mahind  'jdyalaikam  \  4.  Kdmas*  tad  agre  sam'avarttatddhi  manaso  retah 
prathamam  yad  dslt  \  sato  bandhum  asati  niravindan  hridi  pratlshya 
kavayo  manlshd  \  5.  (Vaj.  S.  xxxiii.  74)  Tiraschlno  vitato  rasmir  eshdm 
adhah  svid  dsld  tfpari  svid  dslt  \  retodhdh  dsan  mahimdnah  dsan  svadhd 
avastdt  prayatih  parastdt  \  6.  Ko  anga  vedafkah  iha  pravochat  kulak 
djdtd  kutah  iyafh  visr^htih  \  a/rvdg  devdh  asya  visarjjanena  atha  ko  veda 
yatah  dbabhuva  \  7.  Iyafh  vierishtir  yatah  dbabhuva  yadi  vd  dadhe  yadi 
vd  na  |  yo  asyddhyakshah  parame  vyoman  sa  anga  veda  yadi  vd  na  veda  \ 
"  There  was  then  neither  non-entity,  nor  entity;  there  was  no  atmo- 
sphere, nor  the  sky  which  is  above.  What  enveloped  [all]  ?  where, 
in  the  receptacle  of  what  [was  it  hid]?  was  it  water,4  the  deep 
abyss  ?  2.  Death  was  not  then*  nor  immortality  ;  there  was  no  dis- 

JL  * 

tinction  of  day  or  night  :  That,  being  One,  breathed  calmly,  in  self- 
dependence  :  ^here  was  nothing  different  from  It  [that  One]  or  above 
It.  3.  Darkness  existed  ;  originally  enveloped  in  darkness,  this 
universe  was  undistinguishable  water  ;  tjiat  One  which  lay  void,5  and 
wrapped  in  a  husk  [or  in  nothingness],  was  Developed  by  the  power 
of  fervour.  4.  Desire  first  arose  in  It,  which  was  the  primal  germ 
of  mind  ;  [and  which]  the  wise,  seeking  by  their  intellect,  have 
discovered  in  their  heart  to  be  the  bond  between  non-entity  and  entity. 

5.  The  ray  [or  cord]  which  stretched  across  these  [worlds],  —  was  it 
above,   or  was   it  below  ?     There  were   impregnating  energies,  and 
mighty  powers  ;  a  self-supporting  principle  beneath,  and  energy  above. 

6.  Who  knows,  who  here  can  declare,  whence  has  sprung,  whence, 
this  creation  ?     The  gods  are  subsequent  to  the  development  of  this 
[universe]  ;   who  then  knows  from  what  it  arose  ?     7.    From  what 


ishad,  pp.  26  ff.,  in  Bibl.  IncL),  it  is  said,  Na  eva  iha  Icinehana  agre  aslt^  mrityuna 
eva  idam  avritam  asit  \  "  Originally  there  'was  nothing  here.  This  was  enveloped  by 
Death,"  etc.  See  also  the  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  2,  9,  1  ff.,  cf  noted  in  the  first  volume  of  this 
work,  p.  27.  , 

t  3  In  the  passages  which  I  shall  quote  from  the  S'atapa'tha  Brahmana,  etc.,  further 
on,  we  shall  see  that  the  creative  acts  of  Prajapati  are  constantly  sayl  to  have  been 
preceded  by  desire  :  so  'kamayata,  '-he  desired^,"  etc.  In  r  hymn  of  the  Atharva  V. 
(ix.  2)  Kama  is  personified  as  a  deity.  See  the  fifth  vol.  of  this  worK,  pp.  402  ff. 

4  In  regard  to  water,  as  the  origin  of  all  things,  see'  terse  b,  and  the  quotations 
which  are  given  further  on,  r.rom  Br.  V.  x.  82,  5  f.,  x.  72,  6  ;  the  S'atapatha 
Brahmana,  etc.  , 

'  See  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon  under  the  words  a'jhu  and  tuchhya. 


o        RIGVEDA  x.  81  AND  82  ;   VIS'VAKARMAN.  5 

i 

source  this  creation  arose°and  whether  [any  one]  made  it  or  not,6  —  He 
who  in  the  highest*  heaven  is  its  ruler,  He  knows,  or  [even]  He  does 
not  know." 

See  Professor  Miiller's  translation  of  this  remarkable  hymn,  his 
enthusiastic  appreciation  t)f  its  merits,  and  his  remarks  in  regard  to  its 
age,  in  hi's  "  History  of  Ancient  Sanskrit  Litei^ture,"  pp.  559-566  ; 
and  Professor  Goldstiicker's  observations  on  the  same  subject  in  his 
"  Panini,"  pp.  144  f.  The  hymn  is  also  translated  and  illustrated  in 
the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  356  ff.,  to  -^hich  I  refer. 


VlSVAKAKMAtf,  —  RlG-VEDA,    X.    81    AlTDf82  (  =  VIj.    SAJTH.  XVli.    17-23; 

25-31;  AND  TUTT.  SANH.'IV.  6,  2,  1  ff.). 

R.  V.  x.  81,  1  ff.  —  Yah  imd  visvh  bhuvandni  juhv<M  rishir  hotd 
nyashldat  pita  nah  \  sa  dsishd  dravinam  ichhamdnah  prathama-chhad 
avardn"1  dvivesa  \  2.  Kim  svid  dsld  adhishthdnam  drambhanam  kathamat 
svit  kathd  'sit  \  yato  bhumini  janayan  VisvaJcarmd  vi  dyam  aurnod 
mahind  visvachakshdh  \  3.  (A.  V.  13,  2,  26)  Visvata&chakshur  uta 
visvatomukho  visvatobdhur  uta  visvataspat  \  sam  bdhubhydm  dhamati 
[namati:  T.  S.]  sam  patatrair  dydvd-bhumi  janayan  devah  ekah8  \  4.  Kim 
svid  vanam  [R.  V.  x.  31,  7]  kah  u  sa  vrikshah  dsa  yato  dyava-prithivl 
nishtatakshuh  \  mariishino  manasd  prichhatedu  tad  yad  adhyatishthad  bhu- 
vandni dhdrayan  \  5.  Yd  te  dhdmdni  paramdni  yd  'vamd  yd  madhyamd 
Visvakarmann  utemd  \  siksha  sakhibhyo  havishi  svadhdvah  svayarn  yajasva 
tanvam  vridhdnah  j  6.  (  =  S.  V.  2,  939.)  Visvakarman  havishd  vdvridhd- 
nah  svayam  yajasva  prithivlm  uta  dydm  9  |  ^nuhyantu  anye  abhito 
jandsah10  ihdsmukam  maghava  surir  astu  \  7.  (=Yaj.  «S.  8,  45.) 
Vdchaspatim  Visvojcarmdnam  utaye  many'uvam  vdje  adya  huvema  \  sa  no 
visvdni  havandni  joshad  visvasambhur  avase  sadhukarmd  \ 

R,.  V.  x.  82,  1  ff.  —  Chaishushas  pita  manasd  hi  dhlro  ghritamu  ene 

» 

8  Ob  Einer  sie  schuf  oder  nieht.     Bohtlipgk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon,  under  the  root 
dha  (p.  903).   .  * 

7  Paramachhado  vart^\  T.S.          ^ 

8  The  A.'^.  reads  yo  visvacharshanir  uta  visvatomukho  yo  visvataspanir  uta  visva- 
tassprithah  \-sam  bahubhyam  bharati,etc.  A 

9  Instead  of  prithivlm  uta  dyam  the  S.y.'ijeads  famvam  sva  hi  te. 
lu  Instead  ofjanasah  the  Vaj.  8.  reads  sapatnah.       . 

11  Compare  R.V.  v.  83,  B.     See  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  HO  f. 


6  EIGVEDA  x.  81  AND  82 ;    VIS'VAKARMAN.        « 

ajanad  namnamdne  \  yadd  id  antdh  adadrihanta  purve  dd  id  dydvd- 
prithivi  aprathetdm  ]  2.  Tisvakarmd  vimandh  dd12  vihdydh  dhdtd 
vidhdtd  paramd  uta  samdrik 13  I  teshdm  ishtdni  sam  ishd  madanti  yatra 
sapta  rishln  pafuh  ekam  dhuh  \  3.  (  =  A.  Y.  2,  1,  3.)  Yo  nah  pitd 
janitd  yo  vidhdtd^  dhdmdni  veda  bhuvandm  visvd15  \  yo  devdndm 
ndmadhdh  ekah  eva  $am  samprasnam  lbhuvand  yanti  anya  \  4.  Te 
dyajanta  dravinaih  sam  asmai  rishayah  purve  jaritdro  na  bhund  \ 
[=Mr.  vi.  15]  asurtte  surtte  rajasi  nishatte 16  ye  Ihutdni  samakrinvann 
imdni  \  5.  Pa/ro  diva  ptarah  end  prithivyd  paro  develhir  asurair  yad 
asti11  |  kam  svid  garlham  prathamam  dadhre  dpo  yatra  devdh  sama- 
pasyanta  visve  \  6.  Tarn  id  garbham  prathamam  dadhre  dpo  yatra  devdh 
samagachhanta  visve  \  ajasya  ntibhdv  adhy(  ekam  arpitam  yasmin  visvdni 
bhuvandni  tasthuh18  \  7.  Na  tarn  viddtha  yah  imdjajdna  any  ad  ymhmd- 
kam  antaramoabhuva  19  |  nlkf-renaprdvritdhjalpyd  cha  asutripah  uktha- 
sdsas  charanti  \ 

R.  V.  x."  81,  1  ff. — "Our  father,  who,  fv  rishi  and  a  priest,  celebrated 
a  sacrifice,  offering  up  all  th§se  creatures, — he,-  earnestly  desiring  sub- 
stance, he,  the  archetype,  entered  into  later  [men].  2.  What  was  the 
position,  which  and  whence  was  the  principle,  from  which  the  all-seeing 
Visvakarman  produced  the  earth,  and  disclosed  the  sky  by  his  might  ? 
3.  The  one  god,  who  has  on  every  side  eyes,  on  every  side  a  face,  on 
every  side  arms,  on  every  side  feet,  when  producing  the  sky  and  earth, 
shapes  them20  with  his  arms  and  with  his  wings.  4.  "What  was  the 
wood,  what  was  the  tree,  out  of  which  they  fashioned  the  heaven  and 


12  Manasa  yad  \  T,S. 

13  See  E.Y.  iv.  1,  6,  and  iv.  6,  6,  and  Roth's  Illustratic/as  of  Nirukta,  x.  26,  p.  141. 

14  Instead  of  yo  vidhata  the  A.V.  has  sa  uta  bandhuh.          r 
9     15  Yo  nah  sato  abhi  a  sajjajana  \  T.  S. 

16  Asurta  surta  rajaso  vimane  \  T.  S. 

17  Guha  yat  |  T.  S.  c 

18  After  this  verse  the  Taitt.  Sanh.  has  the  following  [rrVaj.  S.  xvii.  32]  :   Visva- 
Jcarma  hy  ajanishta  devah  ad  id  gandharvo  abhavad  dvitiyah  \  tritlyah  pita  janita 
oshadhlnam  apam  garbham  vyadadhat  purutra  \  "  The  god  ?/is'vakari«an  was  born  : 
then  the  Gandharva  was  produced  the  second  ;  the  third  war  the  father,  the  generator 
of  plants ;  he  divided  into  many  parts  the  source  of  the  waters." 

19  Shavati  \  T.S.  '  « 

20  Compare  R.V.  x.  72*,  2,  b*ow,  p.  f.lf\  and  R.  V.  iv.  2-17  ( =A.  V.  xviii.  3,  22)  : 
Ayo  na  devah  janima  dhamaptah  \  "  The  gods  blowing  on  [or  shapfug]  productions, 
like  iron."  « 


o         EIGVEDA  x.  81  AND  82 ;   YISTAKARMAN.  7 

•  . 

the  earth  ? 21  Inquire '  m'entally,  ye  sages,  what  that  was  on  which  he 
took  his  stand,  wien  establishing  the  worlds.  5.  Do  thou,  Visva-  . 
karman,  grant  to  th'y  friends  those  thy  abodes  which  are  the  highest, 
and  the  lowest,  and  the  middle,  and  these.  Thou  who*  art  strong  in  the 
oblation,  exhilarated,  thyself  offer  up  thyself.32  B.  Do  thou,  Visva- 
karman,  flighted  by  the  sacrifice,  thyself  offer  ^up  heaven  and  earth. 
Let  other  men  who  are  round  about  me  become  confounded.  May  a 
generous  son  remain  here  to  us.23  7.  Let  us  to-day  invoke  in  our 
conflict  the  lord  of  speech,  who  is  swift  as  thought,  Visvakarman,  for 
succour.  May  he  who  is  the  source  of  all  prosperity,  the  beneficent, 
with  a  view  to  our  protection,  receive  graciously  all  our  invocations." 

R.  V.  x.  82,  1. — "  The  father  of  insight,  wise  in  mind,  impregnated 
with  sap  these  two  [worlds]  as  they  bowed  down  [before  him].  "When 
their  remotest  ends  were  fixed,  then  the, heaven  and  e&th  extended. 
2.  Yisvakarman  is  wise,  energetic,  the  creator,  the  disposer,  and  the 
highest  object  of  intuition.  The  objects  of  their  desire  inspire  them 
with  gladness  in  the  pla,ce  where  men  say  that  the  One  dwells  beyond 
[the  abode  of]  the  seven  rishis.  3.  He  who  is  our  father,  our  creator, 
disposer,  who  knows  all  spheres  and  creatures,  who  alone  assigns  to  the 
gods  their  names,21  to  him  the  other  creatures  resort  for  instruction. 
4.  The  former  rishis,  who  fashioned  these  creatures  in  the  remote,  the 
near,  and  the  lower  atmosphere,  offered  to  him,  like  worshippers, 
substance  in  abundance.  5.  That  which  is  beyond  the  sky,  beyond 
this  earth,  beyond  gods  and  spirits, — what  earliest  embryo  did  the 
waters 23  contain,  in  which  all  the  gods  were  beheld  ?  6.  The  waters 
contained  that  earliest  embryo  in  which  all  th^  gods  were  collected. 


21  This  half  verse  also  occurs  in  R.  V.  x.  31,  7.     The  second  half  verse,  as  also  the% 
answer  given  to  the  question  in  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  8,  9,  6,  "  Brahma  was  the  wood, 
Brahma  was  that  tree,"  etc.,  ar5  quoted  in  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  32. 

22  See,  however,  Roth,  s.v.  tanu^and.  R.  V.  x.  7,  6 ;  vi.  11,  2. 

23  Prof.  Aufrecht  proposes  to  translate  this  verse  as  follows :    "  May  all  other, 
people  around,  us  vanish  into  nothing,  hut*  our  own   offspring  remain  blessed  in 
this  world."     In  proof  of  the  sense  of  "offsprifig,"  or  "son,"  here  assigned  to  suri 
(though  it  Khs  not  always  this  meaning),  he  refers  to  R.  V.  v.  42,  4 ;  vi.  26,  7 ; 
vi.  63,  11;  vi.  68,  7;  vik'66,  9;  viii.  26,  12.     This  sense  is  perhaps  also  recom- 
mended by  the  parallel  in  R.V.  i.  181,  4,  between  stfriakhasyasurihm&divahputrah. 

24  Nama  chcCpita  eva  karoti  \  Mahldhara. 

25  Compare  verses  1  an<>3  of  R.  V.  x.  129,  above,  p.  3. 


8  PROFESSOR  ROTH'S  REMARKS  ON  , 

i 
One  [receptacle]  rested  upon  the  navel  of  the  unborn,  wherein  all 

,  beings  stood.  7.  Ye  cannot  know  him  who  produced  these  things; 
something  else  is  within  you.  The  chanters  of  hymns  go  about 
enveloped  in  mist,  and  unsatisfied  with  idle  talk." 

I  have  placed  ttiese  two  hymns  together,»as  they  are  so  similar  in 
character.  The  sense.,  in  some  parts  of  them  is  clear,  in  others  very 
obscure.  The  verses  of  which  they  are  made  up  are  all  to  be  found 
in  the  Yajasaneyi  Sanhita  (xvii.  17-23,  and  25-31),  in  the  same 
order  in  which  they  occur  in  the  Big-veda,  and  without  any  various 
readings  of  importance.  They  are  also  repeated  in  the  Taittinya 
Sanhita,  with  variations,  of  which  the  chief  have  been  noted  above. 
Some  of  them  also  occur  in  tke'Nirukta;  viz.,  R.  Y.  x.  81,  6  in  Nir. 
x.  27 ;  R.  V.  x.  82,  2  in  Kir.  x.  26  ;  the  second  half  of  R.  Y.  x.  82, 
4  in  Nir.  vf.  15  ;  and  R.  ^Y.^x.  82,  7  in  Nir.  Parisishta,  ii.  10. 
Professor  Roth,  in  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta  (pp.  141,  f.),  offers 
some  remarks  on  the  2nd  verse  of  the  second,  and  the  6th  verse  of  the 
first,  of  the  hymns  before  us,  which  I  shal^  translate.  He  renders 
the  former  verse  thus  :  "  Yisvakarman,  wise  and  mighty  in  act,  is  the 
creator,  the  orderer,  and  the  highest  image  [for  the  spiritual  faculty]. 
That  which  men  desire  is  the  attainment  of  good  in  the  world  where 
the  One  Being  dwells  beyond  the  seven  rishis."  He  then  proceeds  to 
observe:  "Yisvakarman,  who  is  no  mythological  personage,  but  the 
'creator  of  all  things,'  and  who  in  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita,  12,  61, M  is 
so  far  rightly  identified  with  Prajapati,  is  here  celebrated  as  equally 
wise  in  design,  and  powerful  in  execution  (the  highest  conception 
which  can  be  attained<by  man) :  and  from  him  the  fulfilment  of  every 
desire  is  obtained  beyond  the  starry  heaven,  whe^e  he  resides  alone, 
without  the  numerous  deities  of  the  popular  creed.  (  .  .  .  .  The  legend, 

'  which  relates  that  Yisvakarman,  son  of  Bhu^  ana,  after  he  had  offered 
up  all  beings  in  sacrifice,  concluded  by  offering  up  himself,  belongs,  in 
my  opinion,  to  the  numerous  class  of  stories  which  have  arisen  out 
of  a  misunderstanding  of  Yedic  .passages,  viz.,  in  the  present  instance, 
verses  1  and  5  of  R.  Y.  x.  8k"  / 

The  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  viii.  2,  1,  10,  and  viii.  2,  3,  1'3,  identifies 
Yisvakarman  with  Prajapati  (Prajdpatir  vai  Visvakarma).  See  also 

26  Prajapatir  Visvakarma  vimunckittt. 


o  RIGVEDA  x.  81  AND  82,  AND  VIS'VAKARMAN.  9 

»  » 

the  Aitareya  Brahmana, '  iv.  22,  and  Professor  Haug's  translation, 
p.  299. 

The  legend  here  referred  to  by  Professor  Eoth  is  given  by  Yaska, 
Nirukta,  x.  26 : 

Tatretihdsam  dchahshate*  \  Viivakarmd  Bhauvanah1  sarvamedhe  sarvdm 
bhutdni  juhavdnchakdra  sa  dtm&nam  npy  antato  ^uhavdnchakara  \  tad- 
alhivddiny  eshd  rig  lhavati  f  yah  ima  viiva  Ihuvandni  juhvad '  iti  \ 
11  Here  they  tell  a  story :  Vis^akarman  son  of  Bhuvana  offered  up 
all  creatures  at  a  universal  sacrifice  (sarvamedha).  He  finally  offered 
up  himself  also.  The  following  verse  (R.  Y.  x.  81,  1)  is  descriptive 
of  this,  viz.,  'he  who  offering  up  all  beings,'  etc." 

Some  further  passages  relating  to  Visvakarman  will  be  found  below, 
in  the  sixth  section  of  the  third  chapter,  to  which,  as  well  as  to  the 
first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  52,  76,  and  456  f.,  and*  to  the  fifth 
volume,  p.  372,  I  may  refer. 

On  the  6th  verse  of  the  fir^t  of  the  hymns  before  us  (R.  V.  x.  81), 
Professor  Eoth  remarks,thus :  "For  the^  correct  understanding  of  the 
second  pada  (the  latter  half  of  the  first  line),  and  similar  passages, 
the  reader  should  compare  R.  V.  x.  7,  6,  yatha  'yajah  ritubhir  deva 
devdn  evd  yajasva  tanvam  sujdta  \  '  As  thou  (0  Agni)  at  the  measured 
times,  0  god,  didst  sacrifice  to  the  gods,  so  sacrifice  also  to  thyself.' 
Agni  is  to  accept  the  offering  for  himself  also.  In  the  same  way 
are  the  words  of  the  5th  verse  of  the  hymn  before  us  to  be  under- 
stood ;  svayam  yajasva  tanvam  vridhdnah  \  '  sacrifice  to  thyself  for  thine 
own  glorification ' :  the  idea  of  self-immolation  has  arisen  from  a 
misunderstanding  of  the  word  tanuzi  and  of  the  construction  of  the 
root  yaj.  The  1st  Averse  of  the  same  hymn  (R,.  V.  x.  81,  4)  is,  as  it 
appears  to  me,  to  be  understood  in  a  similar  manner :  '  He  who  re- 
ceived all  these  creature^  as  offerings.'  In  the  passage  before  us  (the 


27  In  his  remarks  on  the  word  Tanunapat  in  p.  117  of  his  Illustrations,  Professor 
Eoth  observes ;,  "  The  signification  has  been  overlooked,  which  tanu  obtains  in  the 
older  Sanskrit,  as  well  s§  in  Zend  and  modenJ  Persian,  as  it  there  designates  our 
own  person,  9ur  self,  in  contrast  to  tffings  belonging  to  us.  Hence  I  might  explain 
the  word  Tanunapdt  as  cleaning  *  his  own  son.'  Agni  is  his  own  son,  because  he 
springs  into  life  either  as  lightning,  or  from^the  friction  of'wood,  without  being  the 
product  of  simihr  phenomena,  or  powers."*  Sle  also  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon, 
under  the  word  Tanunapat* 


10  EHAGAVATA  PUKANA  QUOTED.  t 

t 

6th  verse  of  R.  V.  x.  81)  the  words  would  therefore  he  rendered  as 
follows:  ' Visvakarman,  glorify  tnyself  by  the  Sacrifice,  offer  up  to 
thyself  heaven  and  earth.'  The  idea  of  sacrifice'is  introduced,  because 
every  portion  of  the  created  universe  which  is  given  as  a  possession 
to  the  gods,  comes  to  them  in  the  shape  of,,a  sacrifice.  The  god  who 
takes  anything  into  his  possession  is  caid  to  offer  it  to  himself.  The 
various  reading  which  we  find  in  the  Sama-veda,  ii.  939,  as  compared 
with  the  verse  before  us  (viz.,  tanvdm  svd  hi  te,  '  offer  thy  body,  for 
it  is  thine,'  instead  of  prithivlm  uta  dydm,  'offer  earth  and  heaven') 
may  be  an  amendment  in  support  of  the  legend." 

I  do  not  know  whether  this  view  is  consistent  with  the  6th  and 
7th  verses  of  the  Purusha  Sufcta.  See  the  first  volume  of  this  work, 
pp.  8,  9,  and  the  fifth  volume,  pp.  367*,  ff.  Possibly  both  conceptions 
(that  of  the'gods  sacrificing  themselves,  and  that  of  their  sacrificing  to 
themselves)  may  have  been  entertained  by  the  Vedic  writers. 

[I  may  here  remark  that  the  Bhagayata  Purana,  ii.  6,  15  ff.,  gives 
a  sort  of  paraphrase  on  the  Purusha  Sukta.  The  author  there  puts 
into  the  mouth  of  Brahma  the  following  lines  (verses  21  ff.),  which 
are  intended  to  illustrate  the  7th  and  following  stanzas  of  that 
allegorical  hymn : 

21.  Yadd  'sya  ndbhydd  nalindd  aJiam  dsam  mahdtmanah  \  ndvindam 
yajna-sambhdrdn  Purushdvayavdn  rite  \  22.  Teshu  yajnasya  pasavah 
sa-vanaspatayah  Icusdh  \  idancha  deva-yajanam  Jcdlas  choru-gundnvitah  \ 
23.  Vastuny  oshadayah  snehdh  rasa-loha-mrido  jalam  \  richo  yajumshi 
sdmdni  chdturhotrancha  sattama  \  24.  Ndmadheydni  mantras  cha  Aakshinds 
cha  vratdni  cha  \  (teiiatdnulcramah  Icalpah  sankalpas  tantram  eva  cha  \ 
25.  Gataijo  matayas  chaiva  prdyaschittam  samarpanam  \  Purushdva- 
yavair  ete  sambhdrdh  sambhritdh  mayd  \  26.  Iti  pambhrita-sambhdrah 
Purushdvayavair  aham  \  tarn  eva  Purusham  yajnarn  tenaimyajam  Isvaram  \ 

"21.  "When  I  was  produced,"  says  Brahima,  "from  the  lotus  sprung 
out  of  the  navel  of  that  great  Being,  I  ^found  no  materials  for  sacrifice 
r  excepting  the  members  of  Purusha.  22.  Among  them  were  the 
victims,  the  sacrificial  posts,  the  Kusa  grass ;  they  formed'  the  sacrificial 
ground,  and  the  seasons  with  their  various  qualities.  The  utensils, 
the  grains,  the  unctuous  substances,  the  flavours, 'the  metals,  the  earths, 
the  water,  the  verses  of  the  Tlicli,  the  Yajush,  and  the  Saman,  the 
functions  of  the  four  priests,  the  names  [of  the  rites],  the  texts,  the 


'.KIGVB.A  x.  72;  BRAHHANASPATI,  ADITI  AND  DAKSHA.         11 

•  > 

gifts,  the  vows,  the  lis't  df  deities,  the  ritual  rules,  the  designs,  the 
forms,  the  arrangements,  the  meditations,  the  expiation,  the  dedi-  , 
cation, — all  these  essentials  of  sacrifice  were  derived  by  me  from  the 
members  of  Purusha.  Having  thus  drawn  from  the  members  of 
Purusha  all  these  appliances,  I  by  this  means  offered  up  Purusha,  the 
lord  [himself],  as  a  sacrifice."]  '  9 

In  his  note  on  the  Nirukta,  vi.  15,  Professor  Both  translates 
the  4th  verse  of  the  second  hymn  before  us  (R.  V.  82)  as  follows : 
"  They  who  in  still,  in  moving,  and  falling  vapour  (rajas]  created 

those   beings furnished  to   him  the  material."     In  his 

Lexicon,  however,  he  renders  the  word  asurtta,  not  by  "  still,"  but  by 
"distant;"  and  quotes  A.  V.  x.  3,  £/,  as  another  passage  in  which 
it  occurs. 

The  later  conception  of  Visvakarman,  as,  the  artificer  o?  the  gods,  is 
found  in  the  following  passage  of  the  Mahabharata,  i.  2592 :  Visva- 
karmd  mahdbJidgo  jajne  silpa-p$ajdpatih  \  Jcartd  silpa-saJiasrtindm  tnda- 
sdndrn  cha  vardhakiljt  \  f/hushandndmcha  sarvesham  Icartd  silpavatdm 
varah  \  yo  divydni  vimdndni  tridasdndm  chakdra  ha  \  manushyds  chopa- 
jivanti  tasya  silpam  mahdtmanah  \  pujayanticha  yam  nityam  Visvakarma- 
nam  avyayam  \  "  Then  was  born  the  illustrious  Visvakarman,  the  lord 
of  the  arts,  executor  of  a  thousand  handicrafts,  the  carpenter  of  the 
gods,  the  fashioner  of  all  ornaments,  the  most  eminent  of  artisans,  who 
formed  the  celestial  chariots  of  the  deities ;  on  whose  craft  men  subsist, 
and  whom,  a  great  and  immortal  god,  they  continually  worship." 

» 
BRAHMAN ASPATI,  DAKSHA,  AITD  ADITI, — BI&-VEDA,  x.  72.M 

R.  V.  x.  72,  1  &.—Devdndm  nu  vayam  jdnu  pravochdma  vipanyayd  \ 
uktheshu  sasyamdnemu  yah  pasydd  uttare  yuge29  \  2.  Brahmanaspatir  eta  * 
sam  karmdrah30  ivddhamai  \  devdnam  purvye  yuge  asatah  sad  ajdyata31  \ 

28  This  hymn  is  also  translated  ai»d  illustrated  in  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work, 
pp. 48  ff. 

29  See  Benfe»'s  Glossary  to  the  Sama-veda,  under  the  word  yuga ;  and  the  first 
volume  of  this  work,  p.  45<1.  0 

30  Karmarah  \  sa  vat  ha  bhastraya  'gnim  upadhamaty  evam  iidapadayat  \  (Sayana) 
"  As  a  blacksmith  blows  ftp  a  fire  with  a  bellows,  so  he  created  them."     Compare 
R.  V.  x.  81,  3,  above  p.  6,  and  note  20,  therf  .«f         • 

31  Compare  Atnarva-veda  x.  7,  25. — Brihanto  nama  tefevah  ye'satah parijajnire  \ 
tkam  tad  nngam  Slcambhasfya  asad  ahuh  paro  janah  \  "  Great  are  those  gods  who 


/ 

12  '    BRAHMANASPATI,  UTTANAPAD,  ADITI,  DAES.«\. 

3.  Devdndm  yuge  prathame  asatah  sad  ajdyata"\  tad  dsdh  anv  ajayanta 
tad  Uttdnapadas  pari  \  4.  Bhur  jajne  Uttdnapado  bhuvahdsdh  ajayanta  \ 
Aditer  Daksho  ajdyata  Dakshdd  u  Aditih  pari  \  (comp.  R.  V.  x.  90,  5.) 
5.  Aditir  hi  ajanishta  Daksha  yd  duhitd  tava  \  Tdm  devdh  anv  ajayanta 
bhadrdh  amrita-bdndhavah  \  6.  Yad  devdh  adah  salile3*  susamrabdhdh 
atishthata  \  atra  vo  nrityatdm  iva  tlvrb  renur  apdyata  \  7.  Yad  devdh33 
yatayo  yathd  bhuvandni  apinvata  \  atra  samudre  dgulham  d  suryam  aja- 
bharttana  \  8.  Ashtau  putrdso  Aditer  ye  jdtds  tanvas  pari  I  devdn  upa 
prait  saptabhih  pard  Mdrttdndam  dsyat^  \  2.  Saptabhih  putrair  Aditer 
upa  prait  purvyam  yugam  \  prajdyai  mrityave  tvat  punar  Mdrttdndam 
dbharat™  \ 

"  1.  Let  us  celebrate  with  'exultation  the  births  of  the  gods,  in 
chanted  hymns,  [every  one  of  us],  who  may  behold  them  in  [this] 
later  age.  2.  Brahmanaspati  shaped  all  these  [beings]  like  a  black- 
smith. In  the  earliest  age  of  the  gods,  the  existent  sprang  from  the 
non-existent.  3.  In  the  first  age  of  thp  gods  the  existent  sprang  from 
the  non-existent.  Thereafter  the  different  regions  sprang  forth  from 
Uttanapad.  4.  The  earth  sprang  from  Uttanapad;  from  the  earth 
sprang  the  regions.  Daksha  sprang  from  Aditi,  and  Aditi  [came] 
forth  from  Daksha.  5.  For  Aditi  was  produced,  she  who  is  thy 
daughter,  0  Daksha.  After  her  the  gods  came  into  being,  blessed, 
sharers  in  immortality.  6.  When,  0  gods,  ye  moved,  strongly  agitated, 
on  that  water,  there  a  violent  dust  issued  forth  from  you,  as  from 
dancers.  7.  When  ye,  0  gods,  like  devotees  [or  strenuous  men], 
replenished  the  worlds,  then  ye  disclosed  the  sun  which  had  been 


sprang  front  non-entity.  Men  say  that  that  remote  non-entity  is  one  member  of 
Skambha."  This  production  of  the  gods  out  of  nothing  seer^s,  on  one  interpretation, 
to  be  contrary  to  the  doctrine  of  the  Chhandogya  Upanishad.  Tad  ha  eke  ahur  "  asad 
evedam agre asld ekam evadvitlyam tasmad asatah  saj jit/eta"  \  Kutastu  Jchalu  saumya 
evafh  syad  iti  hovacha  katham  asatah  saj  jay  eta  iti*\  (Biblioth.  Ind.  vol.  iii.  pp.  389, 
392.)  "  Some  say  '  this  was  originally  non-existent,  one  without  a  second  ;  therefore 
the  existent  must  spring  from  the  non-existent.'  '  But  how,  gentle  friend,'  he  said, 
'  can  it  be  so  ?  how  can  the  existent  spring  from  the  non-existent  ?'/'  See  the  fifth 
volume  of  this  work,  pp.  358  ff.  *  r 

3?  Compare  E.  V.  x.  129,  1,  3,  above,  p.  3.' 

35  Here  Sayana  makes  yatayah  meghah,  "clouds."  See  the  fifth  volume  of  this 
work,  p.  49,  note  92.  f  r. 

34  Paratyat=upari prakshipat,  "fossed  aloft"  (Sayana). 

35  Abharat'=aharat=dyuloke  adharayat,  " placed  in  Ohe  sky  "  (Sayana). 


,  TASKA  AND  ROTH  ON  RIGVEDA  x.  72.          13 

»  > 

hidden  in  the  ocean.  8'.  Of  the  eight  sons  who  were  born  from  the 
body  of  Aditi,  she  approached  the  gods  with  seven,  but  cast  away 
[the  eighth]  Marttanda  [the  sun].  9.  "With  seven  sons  [only]  Aditi 
approached  the  former  generation  of  gods.  Again,  for  iirth  as  well  as 
for  death  she  disclosed  Masttanda."  36  ' 

In  R.  V*.  vi.  50,  2,  mention  is  made  of  certain  luminous  gods 
(sujyotishah}  as  being  the  sons  or  descendants  of  Daksha  (Daksha- 
jpttrln).31  These  notices  of  Daksha  which  occur  in  the  Eig-veda  have 
been  greatly  developed  in  the  later  mythology,  as  may  be  seen  by  a 
reference  to  the  passages  given  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work, 
pp.  65,  72,  116,  122  ff.,  etc.  TJttanapada  is  said  in  the  Vishnu  and 
other  Puranas  to  have  been  a  son  of  Mann  Svayambhuva  by  S'atarupa 
(ibid.  pp.  65,  72,  106,  114). 

On  the  fourth  verse  of  this  hymn  ~i  aska  remarks  as  follows  in  the 
Nirukta,  xi.  23 :  Adityo  Dakshah  ity  dhur  Aditya-madhye  cha  stutah  \ 
Aditir  Dukshdyanl  \  "  Aditer  fiaksho  ajdyata  Dakshdd  u  Aditih  pari" 
iti  cha  |  tat  katham  upapgdyeta  \  samdna-janmdnau  sydtdm  ity  api  vd 
deva-dharmena  itaretara-janmdnau  sydtdm  itaretara-prakritl  \  "  Daksha 
is,  they  say,  a  son  of  Aditi,  and  is  praised  among  the  sons  of  Aditi. 
And  Aditi  is  the  daughter  of  Daksha,  [according  to  the  text]  Daksha 
sprang  from  Aditi,  and  Aditi  came  forth  from  Daksha.  How  can  this 
be  possible  ?  They  may  have  had  the  same  origin  ;  or,  according  to  the 
nature  of  the  gods,  they  may  have  been  born  from  each  other, — have 
derived  their  substance  from  one  another."  See  also  Nirukta  vii.  4,  as 
quoted  below  in  chapter  ii.  sect.  5. 

Roth,  in  his  Illustrations  of  the  Mrukta  (p.  15.1},  translates  the  4th 

and  5th  verses  of  the%hymn  before  us:  "Bhu  (the  world)  was, born,  and 

from  her  opened  womb  (TJttanapad)  sprang  the  Spaces :  from  Aditi 

was  born  Daksha  (spiritual  force),  and  from  Daksha  again  Aditi.     Yes, 

« 

36  The  word  Marttanda  is  compounded  of  two  words  martta,  apparently  derived 
from  mrityu,  death,  and  anda,  an  egg,  or  place  of  production.     The  last  line  seems 
to  contain  an  al]usion  to,this  derivation  of  th£  word,     The  Harivafiisa  v.  549,  thus  ' 
interprets  the  word :  Na  tyialv  ayam  mrito  'ndajthah  iti  snehad  abhashata  \  ajnanat 
Kasyapas   tasfaad  Marttandah   iti  cJiochyate  \  "  Kas'yapa,   from  affection,   but   in, 
ignorance,  said,  '  he  is  not«isad,  abiding  in  the  egg ;'  hence  he  is  called  Marttanda." 
See  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  49,  note  94.     Botylingk  &nd  Eoth,  s.v .,  assign  to 
the  word  in  this  passage  the  sense  of  "bird.*     See  R.  V.  ii.  38,  8-25. 

37  See,  however,  the  fifth  *rolume  of  this  work,  p.  51  f* 


14          'SAYANA  AND  S'ATAPATHA  BRAHMANA  ON  RV.  ^  72. 

c 

Aditi  was  born,  0  Daksha,  she  who  is  thy  daughter;  after  her  the  gods 
were  produced,  the  blessed  possessors  of  immortality."  He  then  pro- 
ceeds to  remark:  "  Daksha,  spiritual  force,  is  the  male  power,  which 
generates  the  gods  in  eternity.  As  Bhu  (the  World  or  Being)  and 
Space  are  the  principles  of  the  Finite,  so  to  both  of  these  is  due  the 
beginning  of  divine  life."  •  • 

Sayana  annotates  thus  on  the  8th  verse  of  the  hymn : 

"  Ashtau  putrdsah"  putrdh  Mitrddayo  'diter  Ihavanti  \  "  Ye  Adites 
tanvas  pa/ri"  sarlrdj  "jdtdh"  utpanndh  \  Aditer  ashta-putrdh  Adh- 
varyava-lrdhmane  pariganitdh  \  tathd  hi  \  "  tan  anukramishydmo 
Mitras  cha  Varunas  cha  Dhdtd  cha  Aryamd  cha  Amsas  cha  Bhagas  cha 
Vivasvdn  Adityas  cheti"  \  tath&  tatraiva  pradesdntare  Aditim  prastutya 
dmndtam  "  tasydh  uchchheshanam  adadkus  tat  prdsndt  \  sd  reto  'dhatta 
tasyai  cJiatv&rah  Aditydh  a/jdyanta  sd  dvitlyam  apilad"  ityddind  ash- 
tdndm  Aditydndm  utpattir  varnita  \ 

"Eight  sons,  Mitra  and  the  rest,  were  born  to  Aditi,  who  sprang 
from  her  body.  Eight  sons  of  Aditi  are  enumerated  in  the  Brahmana 
of  the  Adhvaryus,  thus :  '  We  shall  state  them  in  order,  Mitra, 
Varuna,"  Dhatri,  Aryaman,  Amsa,  Bhaga,  Vivasvat,  and  Aditya.' 
In  another  part  of  the  same  work,  after  reference  has  been  made  to 
Aditi,  it  is  recorded:  "They  placed  before  her  the  remnant  of  the 
sacrifice.  She  ate  it.  She  conceived  seed.  Four  Adityas  were  born 
to  her.  She  drank  the  second  [portion],'  etc.  Thus  is  narrated  the 
birth  of  the  eight  Adityas."  See  the  first  volume  of  this  work, 
pp.  26  f. 

The  S'atapatha  B*rq,hmana  (3,  1,  3,  3  ff.)  gives  the  following  expla- 
nation of  the  same  (the  8th)  verse  of  this  hymn : 

Ashtau  ha  vai  putrdh  Aditeh  \  Turns  tv  etad  " devtih  Aditydh"  ity 
dchakshate  sapta  ha  eva  te  \  avilcritam 38  ha  ashtamam  janaydnchakdra 
Mdrttdndam  \  sandegho™  ha  evdsa  \  ydvdy,  evordhvas  tdvdms  tiryan 
purusha-sammitah  ity  u  ha  eke  dhuh  j  4.  J'e  u  ha  ete  uchur  devdh  Aditydh 
>  "  yad  asmdn  anv  ajanimd  tad  arquyeva  bhud  \  hanta  imam  viharavdma  " 
iti  |  tarn  vichakrur  yathd  ''yqm  purusho  vikritas*tasya  ydni  mdmsdni 

sankritya  sannydsus  tato  hastl  samabhdvat  \  tasmdd  dhur  lrna  hastinam 

*  *       ' 
<  c 

38  Avikritam  kara-charanadi-vikaft/h  iti  tad-rahitam  \  Comm.    r 

39  Samyag  upachitah  samah  ei'asit  \  Comm.  « 


,        RIGVEDA  x.  121 ;  HIRANYAGARBHA.  15 

»•  ) 

pariyrihnlyat  purusJiajd'no *°  hi  hastl  "  iti  \  yam  u  ha  tad  vichakruh  sa 
Vivasvdn  Adityas  tasya  imtih  prajdh  \ 

After  quoting  the  text  of  the  Eig-veda,  the  author  of  the  Brahman  a 
proceeds :  •• 

"Aditi  had  eight  sons*  But  there  are  only  seVen  [gods]  whom 
men  call  the  Aditya  deities.  -For  she  produced  the  eighth,  Mart- 
tan  da,  destitute  of  any  modifications  of  shape  (without  hands  and 
feet,  etc.).  He  was  a  smooth  lump;  of  the  dimensions  of  a  man, 
as  broad  as  long,  say  some.  The  Aditya  deities  said,  '  If  in  his  nature 
he  be  not  conformable  to  ours,  then  it  will  be  unfortunate ;  come  let 
us  alter  his  shape.'  Thus  saying,  they  altered  his  shape,  as  this  man 
is  modified  (by  possessing  different  members).  An  elephant  sprang 
out  of  those  [pieces  of]  his  flesh  which  they  cut  off,  and  threw  away. 
Wherefore  men  say,  '  let  no  one  catch*  an^  elephant,  for  'an  elephant 
partakes  of  the  nature  of  man.'  He  whom  they  then  altered  was 
Vivasvat  (the  Sun)  the  son  of  Aditi,  from  whom  these  creatures  are 

descended." 

•>  » 

HTRANYAGARBHA, — RIG- VEDA,  x.  121. 

E.  V.  x.  121,  1  ff.  (Vaj.  S.  13,  4:  A.  V.  4,  2,  l}—Hiranyagarl)hah« 
samavarttatdgre  bhutasyajatah**  patir  ekah  dslt  \  sa  dddhdra  prithivlm 
dydm  utemdm  kasmai  devdya®  havishd  vidhema  \  2.  (Vaj.  S.  25,  13  : 
A.  Y.  4,  2, 1.)  Ya  dtmaddh  laladdh  yasya  visve  updsate  prasisham  yasya 
devdh  |  yasya  chhuyd  amritam  yasya  mrityuh  Icasmai  devdya  ityddi  \  3. 

40  Pumshajanah  purusha-prakritikah  \  Comm.  . 

41  Hiranye  hiranya-purusha-rupe  brahmande  garba-rupena  avasthitafy  Prajapatir 
Hiranyagarbhah    bhutasfia  pranijatasya    agre   samavarttata  pranijutotpatteh  pura 
svayam  sarlra-dharl  babhuva  \  Prajapati   Hiranyagarbha,  existing   as  an   embryo, 
in  tbe  egg  of  Brahma,  which  was  golden, — consisting  of  the  golden  male  (purusha), — 
sprang  into  being  before  all  IrVing  creatures ;  himself  took  a  body  before  the  pro- 
duction of  all  living  creatures."     Mahidhara  on  Vaj.  S.  13,  4.     (Compare  the  words 
hiranmayah  sakunir  Brahma  nama  \  ¥  The  golden  bird,  namely  Brahma,"  in  Taitt. 
Br,  3,  12,  9,  7.) 

42  Jatah.     Compare  Ks  V.  ii.  12,  1 ;  E.  V.  x.  133,  2,  asatrur  Indrajajnishe — 

"Indra,  thou  hast  been  bo»  without  a  rival ;"  aid  R.V.  viii.  21,  13 tvam 

anapir  Indra  janutha  sanad  asi  \  "  Indra  of  old  art  thou  by  nature  without  a  fellow." 

43  Kasmai  devaya  \  Kas^nai  Kaya  Prajapataye  devaya  \  "^Kasmai,  'to  whom,'  is 
for  Kaya,  the  dative  of  Ka,  the  god  Prajflpati.'*  ComiS.  on  Vaj.  S.  13,  4.   Prajapatir 
vai  Eas  tasmai  hdiisha  vidhema  \  "  Ka  is  Prajapati :  to  hi^n  let  us  offer  our  oblations." 
S'atapatha  Brahmana,  7,  4,  ?,  19. 


16  RIGVEDA  x.  121 ;  HIRANYAGARBHA. 

i  ^B 

(Vaj.  S.  23,  3  :  A.  V.  4,  2,  2.)  Yah  prdnato  nimishato  mahitvd  ekah  id 
rdja  jagato  babhuva  \  ya  He  asya  dvipadas  chatushpadah  kasmai  ityddi  \ 
4.  (Vaj.  S.  25,  12 :  A.  V.  4,  2,  5.)  Yasypme  himavanto  mahitvd  yasya 
samudram  rasayd*1  sahdhuh  \  yasyemdh  pradiio  yasya  bdhu  kasmai 
ityddi  |  5.  (Vaj.  'S.  32,  6,  7  :  A.  V.  4,  2,  3,  4.)  Yena  dyaur  ugrd 
prithivl  cha  drilhd  yena  svah  stabhitam  yena  ndlcah  \  yo  antarikshe  rajaso 
vimdnah  Jcasmai  ityddi  \  6.  Yam  krandasl*5  avasd  tastabhdne  abhy 
aikshetdm  manasd  rejamdne  \  yatrddhi  surah  udito  vibhdti  kasmai  ityddi  \ 
7.  (Vaj.  S.  27,  25 :  A.  V.  4,  2,  6,  8.)  Apo  ha  yad  brihatlr  visvam  dyan 
garlham*6  dadhdndh  j'anayantlr  agnim  \  tato  devdndm  samavarttatdsur 
ekah  kasmai  ityddi  \  8.  (=Vaj.  S.  27,  26.)  Yas  ehid  dpo  mahind 
paryapasyad  daksham  dadhdndh' j'anayantlr  yajnam  \  yo  deveshv  adhi  devah 
ekah  dslt  kasmai  ityddi  \  9.  (=Vaj.  S.  12,  102.)  Md  no  himslj  janitd 
yah  prithivydh  yo  vd  divam  satyadharmd  jaj'dnd  \  ya$  chdpas  chandrdh 
brihatlr  j'ajdna  kasmai"  ityddi  \  10.  (=Vaj.  S.  10,  20 :  A.  V.  7,  79,  4  ; 
7,  80,  3 ;  Nir.  x.  43.)  Prajdpate  na  tvad  etdny  anyo  visvd  jdtdni  pari 
td  babhuva  \  yatkdmds  te  juhumas  tan  no  astu  vayam  sydma  patayo 
raylndm  \ 

"I.  lliranyagarbha  arose  in  the  beginning;  born,  he  was  the  one 
lord  of  things  existing.  He  established  the  earth  and  this  sky :  to 
what  god  shall  we  offer  our  oblation  ?  2.  He  who  gives  breath,  who 
gives  strength,  whose  command  all,  [even]  the  gods,  reverence,  whose 


44  On  the  word  raia,  see  the  second  volume  of  this  work,  p.  343,  note  119. 

45  Krandasl  \  "  This  word  is   explained  in   Bohtlingk   and   Roth's  Lexicon   as 
meaning  (not  heaven  "and  earth,  as  MahTdhara  t'w  loco  understands  it,  and  Sayana  on 
R.  V.  ii.  12,  8,  alternatively  interprets, — the  other  sense  assigned  being,  armies,— but) 
two  armies'engaged  in  battle.     See  the  references  there  giv.in. 

«*6  Compare  with  verses  7  and  8,  the  preceding  hymns,  x^  129,  1,3;  x.  82,  5,  6  ; 
and  x.  72,  6. 

47  I  have  observed  another  hymn  in  the  R.  V.,  tue  168th  of  the  tenth  Mandala, 
of  which  the  fourth  verse  ends  with  words  similaf  to  those  which  conclude  the  first 
nine  verses  of  the  121st,  except  that  instead  of  Jcasmai  the  168th  hymn  has  tasmai. 

I  quote  this  verse  with  the  last  words  of  the  3rd kva  svij  jatah  kutah 

ababhuva  \  4.  atma  devanatn  bhuvanasya  garbho  yathavafam  charati  devah  eshah  \ 
ghoshah  id  asya  srinvire  na  rupdTn  tasmai  Vataya  liavifha  vidhema  \  "  Where  was 
he  produced  ?  whence  has  he  sprung  ?  4.  Soul  of  the  gods,  and  source  of  the  world, 
this  deity  marches  at  his  will.  His  sounds  are  heard  Irut  [ve  see]  not  his  form : 
to  this  Vata  (wind)  let  us  offer  our  oblations."  Compare  St.  John  iii.  8.  "  The  wind 
bloweth  where  it  listeth,rand  thou  hearest  the  sound  thereof,  tut  canst  not  tell 
whence  it  cometh,  and  whither  it  goeth."  * 


•        RIGVEDA  x.  121 ;  HIEANYAGAEBHA.  17 

shadow  is  immortality,  whose  shadow  is  death — to  what  god  shall 
we  offer  our  oblation?  3.  "Who  by  his  might  became  the  sole  king 
of  the  breathing  and  winking  world,  wKo  is  the  lord  of  this  two-footed 
and  four-footed  [creation], — to  what  god,  etc.  ?  4.  Whose  greatness 
these  snowy  mountains,  and  the  sea  with  the  Rasa  [river],  declare, — of 
whom  these'  regions,  of  whom  they  are  the  arms,* — to  what  god,  etc. 
5.  By  whom  the  sky  is  fiery,  and  the  earth  fixed,  by  whom  the 
firmament  and  the  heaven  were  established,  who  in  the  atmosphere 
is  the  measurer  of  the  aerial  syace; — to  what  god,  etc.  ?  6.  To  whom 
two  contending  armies,  sustained  by  his  succour,  looked  up,  trembling 
in  mind ;  over  whom  the  risen  sun  shines, — to  what  god,  etc.  ?  7. 
When  the  great  waters  pervaded^the  univers'e,  containing  an  embryo,  and 
generating  fire,  thence  arose  the  one  spirit  (asu]  of  the  gods, — to  what 
god,  etc.  ?  8.  He  who%  through  his  greatnais  beheld  the  waters  which 
contained  power,  and  generated  sacrifice,  who  was  the  one  god  above 
the  gods, — to  what  god,  etc.  ?»  9.  May  he  not  injure  us,  he  who 
is  the  generator  of  the  earth,  who,  ruling  by  fixed  ordinances,  pro- 
duced the  heavens,  who  produced  the  great  and  brilliant  wate/s ! — to 
what  god,  etc.?  10.  Prajapati,  no  other  than  thou  is  lord  over  all 
these  created  things :  may  we  obtain  that,  through  desire  of  which  we 
have  invoked  thee  ;  may  we  become  masters  of  riches." 

On  Prajapati,  see  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  352  f. ;  390  ff. 

The  whole  of  this  hymn  is  to  be  found  repeated  in  the  Vajasaneyi 
Sanhita,  the  first  eight  verses  in  the  Taittirlya  Sanhita  iv.  1,  8,  3  ff., 
and  most  of  the  verses  recur  in  the  Atharva-veda^  In  making  my 
translation,  I  have  had  the  assistance  of  Mahidhara's  Commentary 
on  the  first-named  Voda,  an  well  as  of  the  version  given  by  Professor 
Miiller  in  his  Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature,  p.  569  f.  In  his  annotation 
on  Yaj.  S.  27,  5,— verse  7,  the  commentator  Mahidhara  refers  to  the 
S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xi.  1,  3,  1  :  Apo  ha  vai  idam  agre  salilam  evasa  \ 
"  This  [universe]  was  in  the  beginning  waters,  only  water;"  48  and  ex- 
plains the  words  garlham  dadhdnuh,  "  containing  a  germ,"  thus :  tatha 
garbham  Hiranyagarllialakshanam  dadhundffdharayantyah  atah  era  agnim 

^  * 

janayantth  agni-ruparh  Hiranyagarlhamjanayantyah  utpadayisJiyantyah  \ 

"  And  also  containing  an  embryo  (garbhj/i)  distinguished  as  the  golden 

»    • 

49  Compare  R,.  "V.  vi.  50,  7,  quoted  in  the  fifth  volume\>f  this  work,  p.  345 ;  and 
the  quotations  from  the  S'atapatha  Bruhmana  and  other  works  in  the  next  section. 


18  .  EXTRACTS  FROM  THE  ATHARVA 

embryo  Hiranyagarbha] ;  and  consequently  'generating,  being  about  to 
produce,  fire, — Hiranyagarbha  in  the  form  of  fire."  The  Atharva-veda 
reads  this  seventh  verse  somewhat  differently,  thus  (A.  V.  4,  2,  6) :  Apo 
agre  visvam  uvah  garbhafh  dadhanah  amrituh  ritajnah  \  yasu  devishv  adhi 
devah  aslt  Icasmai  ityudi  \  "  In  the  beginning-,  the  waters,  immortal,  and 
versed  in  the  sacrer1.  ceremonies,  protected  (covered?)  the  universe, 
containing  an  embryo ;  over  these  divine  [waters]  was  the  god,"  etc. 
The  verse  which  comes  next,  the  seventh  in  the  A.  V.,  is  the  first 
in  the  R.  V.  The  eighth  in  the  A.  Y..,  which  has  none  answering 
to  it  in  the  R.  V.,  is  as  follows :  Apo  vatsam  janayantir  garbham  agre 
samairayan  \  tasyota  jdyamdnasya  ulbah  dsld  hiranyayah  \  Icasmai  devdya 
ityddi — "  In  the  beginning  the  waters,  producing  a  child,  brought 
forth  an  embryo,  which,  as  it  was  coming  into  life,  was  enveloped  in 
a  golden  covering."  ( 

The  idea  of  the  production  of  the  divine  principle  by  which  the 
gods  were  animated  (asu}  from  the  embryo  generated  in  the  waters, 
contained  in  the  seventh  verse  of  the  hymn,  before  us  (R.  V.  x.  121, 
7)  is  replaced,  as  we  shall  find,  in  the  Brahmanas  and  the  later 
mythology  by  that  of  the  generation  of  Prajapati,  or  Brahma,  from 
the  egg  formed  in  the  waters.  In  the  verse  attached  to  the  hymn  as 
the  10th,  the  deity  celebrated  in  the  hymn  is  addressed  by  the  appella- 
tion of  Prajapati,  which  became  a  title  of  Brahma.  The  last  verse 
which  I  have  quoted  from  the  A.  V.  (iv.  2,  8)  assigns  a  "golden 
covering"  to  the  embryo  produced  by  the  waters. 

In  another  part  of  the  same  Veda  (A.  V.  x.  7,  28)  the  following 
verse  occurs :  Hiranyagarbham  paramam  anatyudyam  jandh  viduh  \ 
SJcambha's  tadagre  prdsinchad  Mr  any  am  loke  antard  \  "Men  know 
Hiranyagarbha,  the  supreme,  the  ineffable:  before  him  Skambha 
[the  Supporter]  shed  forth  gold  in  the  midsj;  of  the  world." 

I  shall  make  some  additional  quotations'  from  the  hymn  of  the  A.  V. 
in  which  the  last  cited  verse  occurs,  <and  the  next  following.  [The 
whole  of  the  hymn  A.  V.  x.  7,  and  a  portion  of  A.  Y.  x.  8,  are  quoted 

in  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  378  ff.,  which  can  be  referred  to.] 

"  *> 

EXTRACTS  FBOM  THE  ATHABVA-VEDA,  x1.  7, 'AND  x.  8. 

f(  fo. 

A.  Y.  x.  7,  7. —  Yasmin  stal&hca  Prajapatir  lolcdn  sanvdn  adharayat  \ 
Skambham  tarn  bruhi  hatamah  svid  eva  sah  \  C.  Tat  paramam  avarnam 


•  VEDA  x.  7  AND  8;  SKAMBHA.  19 

i 

yachcha  madhyamam  Prajdpatih  sas'.nje  visva-rupam  \  kiyatd  Skambhah 
pravivesa  tatra  yan  na  jprdvisat  kiyat  tad  babhiiva  \  9.  Kiyatd  Skambhak 
pravivesa  bhutam  kiyad  bhavishyad  anvdsaye  'sya  \  ekam  yad  angam  akri- 
not  sahasradhd  kiyatd  Skambhah  pravivesa  tatra  |  .....  17.  Ye  purusTie 
brahma  vidus  te  viduh  parameshthinam  \  yo  veda  parameshthinam  ya&  cha 
veda  Prajdpatyn  [jyeshtham  ye  tirdhmanam  vidu%  te  Skambham  amt- 
samviduh  \  .  .  .  .  24.  Yatra  devdh  brahmavido  brahma  jyeshtham  upasate\ 
yo  vai  tan  vidydt  pratyaksham  sa  brahma  vedita  syat  |  .  .  .  .  32.  Yasya 
bhumih  pramd  anitariksham  ufydwram  \  divam  ya£  chakre  mUrdhdnam 
tasmai  jyeshtJiaya  JSrahmane  namah  |  ....  35.  Skambho  dddhdra  dydvu- 
prithivi  ubke  ime  Skambho  dddhdrorv  antariksham  \  Skambho  dddhdra 
pradtsah  shad  urvl(h  ?)  Skam\hah  idam  *visvam  bhuvanam  avive&a-  \ 
36.  Yah  framat  tapaso  j'dto  lokdn  sarvay,  samanase  \  somam  yas  chakre 
kevalam  tasmai  jyeshthdya  brahmane  named?  |  .  .  .  .  41.  Yo  vetasam*9 
hiranyayam  tishthantam  salile  veda  \  sa  vai  guhyah  Prajapatih  \ 

A.  V.  x.  8,  2. — Skambhenemif  vishtabhite  dyaus  cha  bhumis  cha  tish- 
thatah  \  Skambhah  idam  sCtrvam  dtmanvad  yat  prdnad  nimishachcha  yat  \ 
....11.  Yad  ejati  patati  yachcha  tishthati  prdnad  apranan  nimishach 
cha  yad  bhuvat  \  tad  dddhdra  prithivtm  visvarupam  tat  sambhuya  bhavaty 

ekam  eva  \ 44.  Akdmo  dhiro  amritah  svayambhiih  rasena  tripto 

na  kutaschanonaft  \  tarn  eva  vidvdn  na  bibhdya  mrityor  dtmdnam  dhiram 
ajaram  yuvdnam  \ 

A.  Y.  x.  7,  7. — "Tell  who  that  Skambha '(supporter)  is,  on  whom 
Prajapati  has  supported,  and  established  all  the  worlds.  8.  How  far 
did  Skambha  penetrate  into  that  highest,  lowest  and  middle  universe, 
comprehending  all  forms,  which  Prajapati  created  ?  and  how  much 
of  it  was  there  which  te  did  not  penetrate  ?  9.  How  far  did  Skambha 
penetrate  into  the  pas*t  ?  and  how  much  of  the  future  is  contained  in  his 
receptacle?  how  far  did  P«kambha  penetrate  into  that  one  member 

which  he  separated  into  a  thousand  parts? 17.  Those  men 

who  know  Brahma  (the  divine  Essence)  in  the  Male  (Purushd},  know 
him  who  occupies  the,  highest  place  (Parameshthiri)  :  he  who  knows 
Parameshthin.  and  who»knows  Prajapati,— they  who  know  the  highest 

<9  I  know  not  whether  this  word  has  here  its  orcTma^  meaning,  or  the  same  sense 
which  is  assigned  |o  the  word  vaitasa  in  R.»V.«.  95,  4,  5  ;  S'atapatha  BrShmana, 
xi.  5,  1,  1 ;  and  Nir.  iii.  21.  %See  also  R.V.  iv.  58,  5 ;  and  S'atap.  Br.  vii.  5,  2,  11  ; 
and  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  384,  note.  • 


20  S'ATAPATHA  BRAHMANA  vi.  1,1,1;  ORIGINAL « 

Brahmana  (divine  mystery),  they  ,know  Skambha 24.  In  the 

place  where  the  gods,  the  knowers  of  sacred  science  (brahma)  reverence 
the  highest  Brahma, — that  priest  (brahma]  who  knows  them  clearly, 

will  be  a  knower.  ( 32.  Eeverence  to  that  highest  Brahma,  of 

whom  the  earth  is  the  measure,  the  atmosphere  the  belly,  who  made 
the  sky  his  head.  .  A,.  .  35.  Skamba  established  both  the'se  [worlds] 
the  earth  and  sky,  Skambha  established  the  wide  atmosphere,  Skambha 
established  the  six  wide  regions,  Skambha  pervaded  this  entire  uni- 
verse. 36.  Reverence,,  to  that  highest  (.Brahma,  who,  sprung  from 
toil  and  from  austere  fervour,  has  pervaded  all  the  worlds,  who  made 

soma  for  himself  alone 41.  He  who  knows  the  golden  reed 

standing  in  the  water,  is  the 'mysterious  Prajapati." 

A.  V.  x.  8,  2. — "These  two  [worlds]  the  earth  and  sky,  stand, 
supported  by  Skambha.  Fkambha  is  all  this  which  has  soul,  which 

breathes,  which  winks 11.  Whatever  moves,  flies,  or  stands, 

whatever  exists  breathing,  or  not  breathing,  or  winking, — that  omni. 

form  [entity]  sustains  the  aarth ;  that,  combined,  is  one  only 

44.  Knpwing  that  Soul,  calm,  undecaying,  young,  who  is  passionless, 
tranquil,  self-existent,  immortal,  satisfied  with  the  essence,  wanting  in 
nothing, — a  man  is  not  afraid  of  death." 

I  quote  these  passages  partly  because  they  contain  frequent  refer- 
ences to  Prajapati,  a  name  which  occurs  but  sparingly  in  the  Rig-veda ; 
and  partly  because  they  celebrate  a  new  god  called  Skambha,  the 
"Supporter,"  or  "  Propper,"  whose  personification  may  have  been 
suggested  by  the  function  of  "supporting"  the  earth  and  heavens, 
which,  as  we  shall  see  in  the  next  chapter,  is  frequently  ascribed  to 
Indra,  Varuna,  Vishnu,  and  Savitri.  «, 

The  verse  last  quoted  (x.  8,  44)  seems  to  coetain  the  idea  of  the 
supreme  Soul  as  the  object  of  knowledge. 

On  the  subject  of  this  and  the  next  sfttions  compare  the  twenty- 
first  section  of  the  fifth  volume  of  this  svork,  pp.  350  ff. 

SECT.  II. — Original  non-entity ;  Prajupati;  primeval  waters;  mundane 
egg,  etc.,  according  to  the  S'atapaiha  Brahmana,  Harij,  the  Rama- 

yana,  Vishnu  Purana,  etc. 
1          f 

The  S'atapatha  Brahmana  Contains  the  following  legends  about  the 
creation. 

I.  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  vi.  1,  1,  1  if.  (pp.  499  of  Weber's  ed.) — 


N9N-EXISTENCE ;  SEVEN  MALES;  PRAJAPATI,  ETC!  21 

« 

Asad  vai  idam  agre  dslt  \  tad  dhuh  ( kirn  tad  asad  dsld'  iti  \  rishayo  vdva 
te  'agre  asad  dslt'  tad  dhuh  \  fkete  rishayah'  iti  \  prdndh  vai  rishayas  te 
y  at  pur  a.  'smdt  sarva'smdd  idam  ichhantah  sramena  tapasd  'rishams  tas- 
mdd  rishayah  \  2.  Sa  yo  'yam  madhye  prdnah  esha  evendrah  \  tun  esha 
prdndn  madhyatah  indriyenaindha  \  yad  aindha  tasmdd  Indhah  \  Indho 
ha  vai  tarn1  Indrah  ity  dchakshale  paroksham  \  paroksha-kdmdh  hi  devds 

I  * 

te  iddhdh  sapta  ndnd  purushan  asrijanta  \  3.  Te  'bravan  "  na  vai 
ittham  santah  safcshydmah  prajanayitum  imdn  sapta  purushan  ekatn 
purusham  karavama"  iti  te  etdn  sapta  purushan  ekam  purusham 
akurvan  \  yad  urddhvam  ndokes  tau  dvau  samauljan  \  yad  avdn  nabhes 
tau  dvau  \  pakshah  purushah  \  pakshah  purushah  \  pratishthd  ekah 

dslt  \ 5.    Sa  eva  purushah '  Prajdpatir  abhavat  sa   yah   sa 

purushah  Prajdpatir  abhavad  ay  am  eva  sa  yo  'yam  Agnis™  chlyate  \ 
6.  Sa  vai  japta-purusho  bhavati  \  saptq^purusho  hy  ay  am  purusho 
yach  chatvdrah  dtmd  trayah  paksha-puchhdni  \  chatvdro  hi  tasya 
purushasya  dtmd  trayah  paksha-puchhdni51  \  atha  yad  ekena  puru- 
shena  dtmdnam  vardhayjiti  tena  vlryena  ayam  dtmd  paksha-puchhdni 

udyachhati   \ 8.   So   'yam  purushah  Prajdpatir  akdmayata 

'  bhuydn  sydm  prajdyeya'  iti  \  so  'srdmyat  sa  tapo  'tapyata  \  sa 
srdntas  tepdno  brahma  eva  prathamam  asrijata  traylm  eva  vidydm  \ 
sa  eva  asmai  pratishthd  'bhavat  tasmdd  dhur  '  brahma  asya  sarvasya 
pratishfhd '  iti  \  tasmdd  anuchya  pratitishthati  pratishthd  hy  eskd 
yad  brahma  \  tasyam  pratishthdydm  pratishthito  'tapyata  \  9.  So 
'po  'srijata  vdchah  eva  lokdd  vdg  evdsya  sd  'srijyata  sd  idam  sarvam 
cipnod  yad  idam  kincha  \  yad  dpnot  tasmdd  dpahK  \  yad  avrinot  tasmdd 
i'uh  |  10.  So  'kdmayata  '  dbhyo  'dbhyo  'dhi prajdyeya'  iti  so  'nayd  trayyd 
vidyayd  saha  apah  yrdvisat  tatah  dndam  samavarttata  tad  abhyamrisad 
1  astv'  ity  f  astu  bhuyo  'stv'  ity  eva  tad  abravlt  \  tato  brahma  eva  pra- 
thamam asrijyata  trayy  eva  vidyd  \  tasmdd  dhur  '  brahma  asya  sarvasya  * 
prathamajam'  ity  \  api  hi  tosmdt  purushdd  brahma  eva  purvam'asrijyata 
tad  asya  tad  mukham  eva  asrijyata  \  tasmdd  anuchdnam  dhur  '  Agni- 

kalpah '  iti  \  mukham  hy  etad  Agner  yc(d  brahma  \  53  • 

•  » 

»  • 

60  Compare  S'atapatha  Brahmana*  vi.  1,  2,  1.3,  and  21  (pp.  502-3) ;  ix.  2,  2,  2 
(p.  713).    According  to  $i.  2,  1,  1 ;  and  xi.  1,  6,  14,  Agnijs  the  son  of  Prajapati. 

51  Comp.  vi.  2,  2,  4,  and  9.  i  j%  '        ' 

52  Compare  5?atapatha  Brahmana  ii.  1,  1,  3;  and  vi,,l,  3,  1  ff. 

63  Compare  Taittiriya  Srahmana  ii.  2,  9,  1  ff.  quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this 
work,  pp.  27  ff. 


22     ORIGINAL  NON-ENTITY;  SEVEN  MALES;  PRAJAPATJ,  ETC. 

"la  the  beginning  this  [universe]  was  indeed  non-existent.  But 
men  say,  '  what  was  that  non-existent  ? '  The  rishis  say  that  in  the 
beginning  there  was  non-existence.  "Who  are  these  rishis  ?  The  rishis 
are  breaths.  Inasmuch  as  before  all  this  [universe],  they,  desiring 
this  [universe],  were  worn  out  («n'«Aa»)^with  tail  and  austerity, 

therefore  they  are  called  Rishis.     2.  This  breath  which  is  in  the  midst 
i  , 

is  Indra.  He  by  his  might  kindled  these  breaths  in  the  midst :  inas- 
much as  he  kindled  them,  he  is  the  kindler  (Indha\  They  call  Indha 
Indra  esoterically :  for  the  gods  love  that  which  is  esoteric.  They  [the 
gods]  being  kindled,  created  seven  separate  males  (purusha).  3.  They 
said,  '  being  thus,  we  shall  not  be  able  to  generate;  so  let  us  make  these 
seven  males  one  male.'  So  sneaking,  they  made  these  seven  males  one 
male  (purusha).  Into  the  part  above  the -navel,  they  compressed  two  of 
them,  and  two  others  into  the  part  below  the  navel ; .  [one]  male 
[formed  one]  side  ;  [another]  male  [another]  side^  and  one  formed  the 
base.  .  , .,  .  5t.  This  [one]  male  became  Prajapati.  The  male  who 
became  Prajapati  is  the  same  as  this  Agni  who  is  kindled  on  the 
altar.  6.  He  verily  is  composed  of  seven  males  (purwha] :  for  this 
male  is  composed  of  seven  males,  since  [four]  make  the  soul,  and  three 
the  sides  and  extremity  (lit.,  tail).  For  the  soul  of  this  male  [makes] 
four,  and  the  sides  and  extremity  three.  Now  inasmuch  as  he  makes 
the  soul  [which  is  equal  to  four]  superior  by  one  male,  the  soul,  in 
consequence  of  this  [-excess  of]  force,  controls  the  sides  and  extremity 
[which  are  only  equal  to  three] 8.  This  male  (piwusha}  Pra- 
japati desired,  '  may  I  be  multiplied,  may  I  be  developed,'  He  toiled, 
he  performed  austerity.  Having  toiled  and  performed  austerity,  he 
first  created  the  Veda  (brahma),  the  triple  science.  It  became  to  him 
a  foundation.;  hence  men  say,  'the  Veda  (brahma^is  the  foundation  of 
all  this.'  "Wherefore  having  studied  [the  Veda]  a  man  has  a  founda- 
tion, for  this  is  his  foundation,  namely  tke  Veda.  Resting  on  this 
foundation,  he  performed  austerity.  9ft  He  created  the  waters  from 

rthe  world  [in  the  form  of]  speeph,51    Speech  belonged  to  him.     It  was 

f  t 

f- 

64  This  is  illustrated  by  a  passage  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  vii.  5/2, 21  (p.  617), 
which  says  :  vag  vat  ajo  vacho  vai  prajah  Visvakarma  jajd'iM  \  "  Speech  is  the  mover 
[or,  the  unborn].  It  was  froiri  speech'  that  Vis'vakarman  produced  creatures."  And 
in  the  Brihad  Aranyaka  (p,  290  of  $ibl.  Ind.)  it  is  said  |  trayo  lobah  ete  eva  \  vag 
etayam  loko  tnano  '  ntariksha-lokah  prano  'sau  lokah  \  "  It  is  they  which  are  the  three 


•    PEAJAPATI  COMPOSED  OF  SEVEN  MALES.  23 

I 

created.  It  pervaded  all 'this.  Because  it  pervadad  (dpnot]  all  this 
which  exists,  it  (speech)  was  called  waters  (apah};  and  because  it 
covered  (avrinot\  it  was  called  vdh  (another  name  of  water).  10.  He 
desired,  'May  I  be  reproduced  from  these  waters.'  So  saying,  with 
this  triple  science  he  entered55  the  waters.  Thence  an  egg  arose. 
He  handletl  it.  He  said  to  it,'  'let  it  become,', ' let  it  become,'  'let 
it  be  developed.'  From  it  the  Veda  was  first  created,56  the  triple 
science.  Hence  men  say,  'the  Veda  is  the  first-born  of  this  whole 
[creation].  Further,  [as]  the  Veda  was  first  created  from  that  Male, 
therefore  it  was  created  his  mouth.  Hence  they  say  of  a  learned  man 
that  he  is  like  Agni ;  for  the  Veda  is  Agni's  mouth." 

The  same  idea  about  Prajapati  being*  composed  of  seven  males,  occurs 
again  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  x.  2,  2,  1,  and  seems  to  be  connected 
with  the  notion  of  Agni  having  the  size,  of  seven  males.  (See  the 
commentary  on  S'atap.  Br.  x.  2,  2,  1). —  Ydn  vai  tun  gapta  purushdn 
ekam  purusham  akurvan  sa  Prjijdpatir  abhavat  \  sa  prajdh  asrijata  \  sa 
prajdh  srishtvd  urddhvaji  udattrdmat  \  qa  etam  lokam  agachhad  yatra 
esha  etat  tapati  \  no  lia  tarhy  anyah  etasmdd  atra  yajniyah  dsa  tarn 
devdh  yajnenaiva  yashtum  adhriyanta  \  tasmdd  etad  rishind  'btiyanuktam 
'yajnena  yajnam  ayajanta  devdh  ityddi  \  "These  seven  males  whom  they 
made  one  male  (purusha)  became  Prajapati.  He  created  offspring. 
Having  created  offspring,  he  mounted  upwards ;  he  went  to  this  world 
where  this  scorches  this.  There  was  then  no  other  being  fit  for 
sacrifice :  the  gods  began  to  offer  him  with  sacrifice.  Hence  it  has 
been  said  by  the  rishi  (R.  V.  x.  90,  16),  'the  gods  offered  the  sacrifice 
with  sacrifice.'"  Part  of  the  passage,  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  vi.  1,  1,  6 
is  repeated  in  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  x.  2,  2,  5.57  » 

II.  In  the  preceding  story,  the  gods  are  represented  as  the  creators 


worlds.  Speech  is  this  world,* mind  is  the  atmospheric  world,  and  breath  is  that 
world  (the  sky)."  Regarding  the  Action  of  Vach  in  the  creation,  compare  Weber's 
Ind.  Stud.  ix.  477  f.,  and  the  passages  quoted  from  him  in  the  fifth  volume  of  this 
work,  p.  391  f.  » 

65  Compare  A.V.  x.  2,  C  |  sa  a  varlvarti  bhu9aneshv  antar  apo  vasanah  kah  u  tach 
chiketa  \  "  B^  (Purusha)  moves  actively  in  the  worlds,  clothed  with  the  waters  : 
who  has  known  this  ?"  •  ' 

M  It  had,  however,  been  created  before.     See  a  few  lines  above. 

57  Compare  S'atap.  Br.  x.  2,  3,  IS.—iSaplavidho  vai  agre  Prajapatir  asrijyata. 
These  words  are  repeated  »  x.  2,  4,  8. 


24  S'ATAPATHA  BRAHMANA  xi.  1,  6,  1 ;  PRIMEVAL^ 

of  Prajapati,  who  in  his  turn  is  stated  to  have  generated  the  waters, 
which  he  entered,  and  from  which  sprang  the  mundane  egg.  In  the 
following  story,  the  order  of  production  is  different.  The  waters 
generate  the  egg,  and  the  egg  brings  forth  Prajapati,  who  creates  the 
worlds  and  the  gods.  ,  . 

Satapatha  Brahmana,  xi.  1,  6,  1  ff.-^Apo  ha  vai  idam  agre  salilam 
evdsa&8  |  tdh  akdmayanta  '  katham  nu  prajdyemahi'  Hi  tuh  asrdmyams 
ids  tapo  'tapyanta  \  tdsu  tapas  tapyamdnasu  hiranmayam  dndam  samba- 
bhuva  |  ajuto  ha  tarhi  samvatsarah  dsa  \  tad  idam  hiranmayam  dndam 
ydvat  samvatsarasya  veld  tdvat  paryaylavata  \  2.  Tatah  samvatsare 
purushah  samabhavat  sa  Prajdpatih  \  tasmdd  u  samvatsare  eva  strl  vd 
gaur  va  vadabd  vd  vijdyate  samvatsare  hi  Prajdpatir  ajdyata  \  sa  idam 
hiranmayan  dndam  vyarujat  \  na  aha  tarhi  kdchana  pratisht hd  dsa  \  tad 
enam  idam  eva  hiranmayam  anaam  ydvat  samvatsarasya  veld  dsit  tavad 
libhrat  paryaplavata™  \  3.  Sa  samvatsare  vydjihlrshat  \  sa  l  bhur'  iti 
vydJiarat  sd  iyam  prithivy  abhavad60  'bhuvah'  iti  tad  idam  antariksham 
abhavat  '  -svar '  iti  sd  asau  dyaur  abhavat  tasmdd^  u  samvatsare  eva  kumdro 
vyujihirshati  samvatsare  hi  Prajdpatir  vydharat  \  .  .  .  6.  Sa  sahas- 
rdyur  jajne  \  sa  yathd  nadyai  pdram  pardpasyed  evam  svasyayushah 
pdram  pardchakhyau  \  7.  So  'rchan  irdmyams  chachdra  prajdkdmah  \ 

49  S  atapatha  Brahmana,  vi.  7,  1,  17. — Tasya  apah  eva  pratishtha  \  apsu  hi  ime 
lokah  pratishthitah  \  "Waters  are  its  support :  for  these  worlds  are  based  upon  the 
waters."  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xiv.  8,  6,  1  (  =  Brihad  Aranyaka  Upanishad,  p.  974). 
— Apah  evedam  agre  asuh  \  tah  apah  satyam  asrijanta  satyam  Brahma  Brahma 
Prajapatim  Prajapatir  devan  \  "  In  the  beginning  waters  alone  formed  this  universe. 
These  waters  created  Truth,  Truth  created  Brahma,  Brahma  created  Prajapati,  and 
Prajapati  the  gods."  Ctonpare  Taitt.  Sanh.  vii.  1,  5,  1  ff. ;  Taitt.  Br.  i.  1, 3,  5  ff. ;  and 
Taitt.  Arany.  i.  23,  1  if.  quoted  in  pp.  31  and  52  f.  of  vol.  i.  this  work.  To  the  same 
effect  is  Taitt*  Sanh.  v.  7, 5, 3,  Apo  vai  idam  agre  salilam  aslt.  <  The  A.  V.  xii.  1 ,  8,  also 
says  :  ya  'rnave  'dhi  salilam  agre  asidyammayabhir  anvacharv.nmantshinah  \  "That 
( earth  which  formerly  was  water  on  the  ocean,  which  the  sages  followed  after  by  their 
divine  powers,"  etc.  R.  V.  x.  109,  1,  speaks  of  the  '^divine  first-born  waters"  (apo 
devlh  prathamajah).  The  S'atap.  Br.  xiv.  2,  2,  2,  represents  the  wind  as  the  ocean, 
which  was  the  source  from  which  the  gods  and  alj  creatures  issued  (aya~n  vai  samudro 
yo-'yam  pavate  \  etasmad  vai  samt<.drat  sarve  devah  sarvani  bhutani  samuddravanti  \ 

i9  Tasya  Prajapater  aspadam  kimapi  na  babhuva  sa  cha  niradharatvat  sthatutn 
as'aknuvann  idam  eva  bhinnam  hirart.nayandam  punah  saihi>''tsara-paryantam  bibhrad 
dharayan  tasv  evapsit  paryasravat  \  "There  was  no  resting  place  for  Pfajapati ;  and 
he,  being  unable  to  stand,  from  the  want  of  any  support,  occupying  this  divided 
golden  egg  for  a  year,  floated  abrfut  on  frhese  waters."  Commentary. 

60  Compare  vol.  iii.  of  thisfwork,  2rid  eii.  pp.  101,  104,  and  S'atafatha  Brahmana 
ii.  1,  4,  11,  p.  141. 


WATERS;  MUNDANE  EGG;  PRAJAPATI;   GODS.  25 

I 

sa  dtmany  eva prajdtim' adhatta  sa  dsyenaiva  devdn  asrijata  \  te  devdh 
divam  abhipadya  asrijyanta  tad  devdndm  devatvam  yad  divam  abhipadya 
asrijyanta  \  tasmai  sasrijanaya  diva  iva  dsa61  \  tad  veva  devdndm  devatvam 
yad  asmai  sasrijanaya  diva  iva  dsa  \  8.  Atha  yo  'yam  avdn  prdnas  tena 
asurdn  asrijata  \  te  imdm*eva  prithivlm  alhipadya  asrijyanta  \  tasmai 
sasrijdndya'  tamah  iva  dsa  \  9.  So  'vet  " ptipmdnajii  vai  asrikshi  yasmai 
me  sasrijanaya  tamah  ivaabhud"  iti  \  tarns  tatah  evapdpmand  'vidhyat  \ 
te  tatah  eva  pardbhavan  |  ....  14.  Tdh  vai  etdh  Prajdpater  adhi 
devatdh  asrijyanta  Agnir  Indrah6Z  Somah  Parameshthi  prdjdpatyah  \ 
.  ...  18.  Sa  Prajdpatir  Inaram  putram  abravld  ityddi  \ 

"In  the  beginning  this  universe  was  waters,  nothing  but  water. 
The  waters  desired,  '  how  can  we  be  reproduced  ? '  So  saying,  they 
toiled,  they  performed  austerity.  While  they  were  performing  austerity, 
a  golden  egg  came  into  existence.  Being,  produced,  it  then  became 
a  year.  Wherefore  this  golden  egg  floated  about  for  the  period  of  a 
year.  2.  From  it  in  a  year  a  male  (purusha}  came  into  existence,  who 
was  Prajapati.  Hence  it;  is  that  a  woman^  or  a  cow,  or  a  mare,  brings 
forth  in  the  space  of  a  year,  for  in  a  year  Prajapati  was  born.  He 
divided  this  golden  egg.  There  was  then  no  resting-place  for  him. 
He  therefore  floated  about  for  the  space  of  a  year,  occupying  this 
golden  egg.  3.  In  a  year  he  desired  to  speak.  He  uttered  'bhur,' 
which  became  this  earth ;  '  bhuvah,'  which  became  this  firmament ;  and 
'svar,'  which  became  that  sky.  Hence  a  child  desires  to  speak  in  a 

year,  because  Prajapati  spoke  in  a  year 6.  He  was  born  with 

a  life  of  a  thousand  years.  He  perceived  the  further  end  of  his  life, 
as  [one]  may  perceive  the  opposite  bank  of  a  river.  7.  Desiring 
offspring,  he  went  on,  worshipping  and  toiling.  He  conceived  progeny 
in  himself:  with  his  mouth  he  created  the  gods.  These  gods  were 
created  on  reaching  heaven.  This  is  the  godhead  of  the  gods  (devdh) 
that  they  were  created  on  Breaching  heaven  (divam).  To  him  while 
he  was  continuing  to  create,  ^t  became,  as  it  were,  daylight  (diva}. 

This  is  the  godhead  of  the  gods,  that  to  him  as  he  was  continuing  to  • 
*  » 

»  » 

61  Diva  iva  asa  \  akasah  iva  babhuva  \  Comm.  Comp.  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  2,  9,  9,  translated 
in  the  first  volume  of  this  Work,  p.  30. 

61  In  R.  V.  x.  1 34,  1  ff.  Indra  is  said  to  be  1be  son^>f  a  mother  whose  name  is  not 
mentioned.  See?  however,  the  fifth  volume  of  this  wprk,  where  this  subject  is 
referred  to.  ' 


26  CHHANDOGYA  UPANISHAD  ;  MUNDANE  EGG.  * 

i 

create,  it  became,  as  it  were,  daylight.  8.  Then  from  this  lower  breath 
he  created  the  Asuras.  They  were  created  when  they  reached  this 
world.  To  him,  when  creating,  darkness,  as  it  were,  appeared.  9.  He 
knew:  'I  have  created  evil,  since  as  I  was  creating,  darkness,  as  it 
were,  appeared.'  He  then  pierced  them  with  evil;  and  they  in  conse- 
quence were  overcome  ....  14.  These  [following]  gods  Were  created 
from  Prajapati, — Agni,  Indra,  Soma,  and  Parameshthin,  son  of  Praja- 

pati 18.  Prajapati  said  to  his  son  Indra,"  etc. 

The  mundane  egg  is  also  mentioned  in  the  Chhandogya  Upanishad 
(p.  228  ff.):  Adityo  Brahma  ity  ddesah  \  tasyopavydkhydnam  \  asad 
eva  idam  agre  aslt  \  tat  sad  dslt  \  tat  samabhavat  \  tad  dndam  niravarttata  \ 
tat  samvatsarasya  mdtrdm  a£ayata  \  tad  nirabhidyata  \  te  dnda-Tcapdle 
rajatafh  cha  suvarnam  cha  abhavatdm  \  tad  yad  rajataih  sd  iyam  prithivl 
yat  suvarnam  sd  dyaur  yaj\  jardyu**  te  parvatdh  yad  ulvamei  sa  megho 
riihdro65 yah  dhamanayas  M  tdh  nadyo yad  vasteyam61  udakam  sa  samudrah  \ 
atha  yat  tad  ajdyata  so  'sdv  Adityas  tafn  jdyamdnam  ghoshdh  ululavo KB 
'nudatishthan  [Jnudatishthan?^  sarvdni  cha  <bhutdni  sarve  cha  kdmds 
tasmdt  tasyodayam  prati  pratydyanam™  prati  ghoshdh  ululavo  'nuti- 
shthanti  sarvdni  cha  Ihutdni  sarve  chaiva  ltdmiih  \  which  is  thus 
translated  by  Eabu  Rajendralal  Mittra:  "The  sun  is  described  as 
Brahma ; — its  description.  Verily  at  first  this  was  non-existent ;  that 
non-existence  became  existent ;  it  developed, — it  became  an  egg :  it 
remained  [quiet]  for  a  period  of  one  year ;  it  burst  into  two ;  thence 
were  formed  two  halves  of  gold  and  silver.  Thereof  the  argentine  half 
is  the  earth,  and  the  golden  half  the  heaven.  The  inner  thick  mem- 
brane [of  the  egg]  became  ^mountains,  and  the  thin  one  cloudy  fog ; 
the  blood-vessels  became  rivers,  and  the  fluid  became  the  ocean ;  and 
lastly,  what  was  born  therefrom  is  the  sun,  Aditya.  On  its  birth 
arose  loud  shouts  [or  shouts  of  '  ulu-ulu '],  as  well  as  all  living  beings, 
and  their  desires.  Hence  on  the  rising,  aud  re-rising  [day  after  day] 


63  Garbha-veshtanam  sthulam  \  Comm. 

64  Sukshmam  garbha-pariveshtdham  \  Comm. 

65  Avasyayah  (frost]  \  Comm. 

66  S'irah  \  Comm. 

67  Vastau  bhavam  vasteyam1^  Com£l.r    "  Abdominal,"  Wilson. 

68  Ururavo  vistlrna-ravafr  udatishthann  utthitavantah  \ 

69  Pratyatta-gamanam  .  .  .  athava  punah  punah  pratyagamanam 


IVRAJAPATI  IN  THE  FORM  OF  A  TORTOISE,  ETC.  27 

> 

of  the  sun,  arise  shouts  of* 'ulu-uluj'  as  well  as  all  living  beings  and 
their  desires."  (Bibl.  Ind.  No.  78,  p.  65.) 

In  the  next  passage,  Prajapati  is  said  to  have  taken  the  form  of 
a  tortoise : 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  rii.  4,  3,  5. — Sa  yat  kurmo  ndma  etad  vat 
rupam  kritbd  Prajdpatih  prajdh  asrijata  \  yad  asfijata  akarot  tad  yad 
akarot  tasmdt  kurmah  \  Kasyapo  vat  kiirmas  tasmdd  dhuh  '  sarvah  prajdh 
Kdsyapyah  iti  \  sa  yah  sa  kurmo  'saw  sa  Adityah  \  "  Having  assumed  the 
form  of  a  tortoise,  Prajapati  created  offspring.  That  which  he  created, 
he  made  (akarot} ;  hence  the  word  kurma.  Kasyapa  means  tortoise ; 
hence  men  say,  'all  creatures  are  descendants  of  Kasyapa.'70  This 
tortoise  is  the  same  as  Aditya."  *  • 

In  the  later  mythology  it  is  Vishnu  who  assumes  the  form  of  a 
tortoise :  , 

Thus  in  the  chapter  of  the  Bhagavata  Purana  descriptive  of  Vishnu's 
incarnations  it  is  said  (i.  3,  1£) :  Surdsurdndm  udadhim  mathnatdm 
mathandchalam  \  dadhre  kuma^ha-rupena  pfishfhe  ekddase  vibhuh  \  "  In 
his  eleventh  incarnation,  the  Lord  in  the  form  of  a  tortoise  supported 
on  his  back  the  churning-mountain,  when  the  gods  and  Asuras  were 
churning  the  ocean." 

In  its  application  of  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita,  37,  5,  the  S'atapatha 
Brahmana,  14,  1,  2,  11,  makes  the  following  allusion  to  the  elevation 
of  the  earth  by  a  boar:  "  lyaty  agrt  dsld"  (Vaj.  S.  37,  5)  iti  \  iyatl 
ha  vai  iyam  agre  prithivy  dsa  prddesa-matrl  \  tdm  Emushah  iti  va- 
rdhah 71  ujjaghdna  \  so  'sydh  patih  Prajdpatis  tenaiva  enam  etanmithu- 
nena  priyena  dhdmnd  n  samardhayati  kritsnam  karoti  ityddi  \ 

4<<She  (the  earth),  was  formerly  so  large,'  etc.;   for  formerly  this 

T0  Kas'yapa  is  mentioned  in  the  A.  V.  xix.  53,  10  (see  the  fifth  volume  of  this 
work,  p.  408) ;  as  well  as  in  t\,«o  rather  ohscure  verses  of  the  Sama-veda,  which  do 
not  occur  in  the  Rigveda.  The  first  is  i.  90  :  Jatah  parena  dharmana  yat  savridbhih 
sahabhuvah  \  pita  yat  Kasyapasyagr^h  S'raddha  mata  Manuh  kavih  \  "  Since  with 
thy  companions,  thou  hast  been  produced  through  an  excellent  rite ;  since  Agni  is  , 
the  father,  Faith  (S'radcSha)  the  mother,  and  Manu  the  hard,  of  Karfyapa."  The 
second  is  i.  361 :  Kasyap^sya  svarvido  yav  ahtlh  sayujav  iti  \  yayor  visvam  apt 
vralam  yajnam*dh~irah  niehuyya  \  "Whom  twain  the  wise,  revering,  declare  to  be  the 
companions  of  the  heavenly'  KaVyapa ;  to  whom  twain  [they  declare]  the  entire 
power  (or  ceremonial)  and  sacrifice  to  belong."*  • 

71  SeeR.V.  vii?.  66,  10.  ' 

71  In  regard  to  these  words  compare  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  iii.  9,  4,  20. 


28  PRAJAPATI,  DAKSHA,  BHARATA. 

earth  was  only  so  large,  of  the  size  of  a  spaa.  Emusha,  a  boar,  raised 
her  up.  Her  lord,  Prajapati,  in  consequence,  prospers  him  with  this 
pair,  the  object  of  his  desire,  and  makes  him  complete,"  etc.  Compare 
the  passages  from  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita  and  Taittiriya  Brahmana,  etc., 
quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp,  52  ff.,  and  181  ff. ;  and 
also  the  fifth  volume,  of  this  work,  pp.  390  ff. 

From  Weber's  Ind.  Stud.  i.  78,  I  find  that  in  the  Taittiriya  Aran- 
yaka  also,  the  earth  is  said  to  have  been  "raised  by  a  black  boar  with 
a  hundred  arms"  (vardhena  krishnena  sata-ldhund  uddhrita). 

I  quote  some  further  texts  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  relative  to 
Prajapati. 

In  the  following  he  is  said  to  have  in  the  beginning  constituted  the 
universe,  and  to  have  created  Agni  (see  above,  p.  26). 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  ii.,^2,  '4,  1. — Prajapatir  ha  vai  idam  agre  ekah 
evdsa  |  sa  aikshata  '  katham  nu  prajdyeya '  Hi  \  so  'srdmyat  sa  tapo  'tap- 
yata  so  'gnim  eva  mukhdj janaydnchakre^ ityddi  \  "Prajapati  alone  was 
all  this  [universe]  in  the  beginning.  He  considered,  '  how  can  I  be 
reproduced?'  He  toiled,  and  performed  austerity.  He  generated 
Agni  from  his  mouth."  Compare  the  passages  quoted  in  the  first  vol. 
of  this  work,  pp.  24,  69  ff. ;  in  volume  third,  p.  4 ;  and  in  volume 
fifth,  pp.  390,  ff. 

In  the  next  passage  he  is  identified  with  Daksha : 73 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  ii.  4,  4,  1. — Prajapatir  ha  vai  etendgre  yaj- 
neneje  prajdkdmo  '  bahuh  prajayd  pasulhih  sydm  sriyam  gachheyam  yasah 
sydm  annddah  sydm'  iti  \  sa  vai  Daksho  ndma  ityadi  \  "  Prajapati 
formerly  sacrificed  with  this  sacrifice,  being  desirous  of  progeny,  [and 
saying]  <i  may  I  abound  in  offspring  and  cattje,  attain  prosperity, 
become  famous,  and  obtain  food.'  He  was  Daksha." 

In  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  vi.  8,  1,  14,  Prajapati  is  said  to  be  the 
supporter  of  the  universe  (a  function  afterwards  assigned  to  Vishnu) : 
Prajapatir  vai  lharatah  sa  hi  idam  s/irvam  bibhartti  \  "Prajapati  is 
Bharata  (the  supporter),  for  hft  supports  all  this  universe."74 

«  See  R.  V.  x.  72,  4,  5  (above  p.  12). 

74  In  R.  V.  i.  96,  3,  the  epithet  Bharata  is  applied  to  Agni.  The  commentator 
there  quotes  another  text,  nt  douhfc  from  a  Brahmana,  esha  prano  bhutva  prajah 
bibhartti  tasmad  esha  bhawtah  \  "  He  becoming  breath,  sustains  aJ  creatures  ;  hence 
he  is  the  sustainer."  c 


•  PRAJAPATI,  PURUSHA  NARAYANA,  BRAHMA.  29 

> 

Compare  the  first  verse  "of  the  M^undaka  Upanishad,  where  Brahma 
is  called  the  preserver  of  the  world  (bhuvanasya  gopta). 

In  the  next  passage  Prajapati  is  represented  as  desirous,  not  to 
create,  but  to  conquer,  the  worlds : 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  aiii.  2,  4,  1. — Prajapatir  akdmayata  'ubhau 
lokdv  abhijdyeyam  deva-lokancha  manushya-lokanch% '  ityddi  \  "  Prajapati 
desired,  'may  I  conquer  both  worlds,'  that  of  the  gods,  and  that  of 
men,"  etc.  Comp.  S'atap.  Br.,  x.  2,  1,  1. 

In  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xiii.  6, 1, 1,  Purusha  Narayana  is  introduced : 
Purusho  ha  Ndrdyano  'kdmayata  '  atitishtheyam  sarvdni  bhutdny  aham 
eva  idam  sarvam  sydm'  Hi  \  sa  etam  purusha-medham  pancha-rdtram 
yajnakratum  apasyat  tarn  dharat  tena  'aynjata  tena  ishtvd  'tyatishthat 
sarvdni  bhutdni  idam  sarvam  abhavat  \  atitishthati  sarvdni  bhutdni  idam 
sarvam  bhavati  yah  evam  vidvdn  purusha-medjiena  yttjate  yo  vai  etad  evam 
veda  \ 

"Purusha  Narayana  desired,  'may  I  surpass  all  created  things; 
may  I  alone  become  all  tjiis  ? '  He  beheld  this  form  of  sacrifice  called 
' purusha-medha '  (human  sacrifice)  lasting  five  nights.  He  took  it; 
he  sacrificed  with  it.  Having  sacrificed  with  it,  he  surpassed  all 
created  things,  and  became  all  this.  That  man  surpasses  all  created 
things,  and  becomes  all  this,  who  thus  knowing,  sacrifices  with  the 
'purusha-medha,' — he  who  so  knows  this."  The  Purusha-sukta  is 
shortly  afterwards  quoted.  Comp.  S'atap.  Br.  xii.  3,  41,  quoted  in  the 
fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  377. 

In  S'atap.  Br.,  xi.  2,  3,  1,  Brahma  (in  the  neuter)  is  introduced  as 
being  the  original  source  of  all  things:  Brahma  vai  idam  agre  dslt  \ 
tad  devdn  asrijata  \  tf(d  devdn  srishtvd  eshu  lokeshu  vydrohay ad  \isminn  eva 
loke'gnim  Vdyum  aniarikshe  divy  eva  Suryam  |  "In  the  beginning  Brahma 
was  all  this.  He  created  the  gods.  Having  created  the  gods,  he  placed 
them  in  these  worlds,  in  this  world  Agni,  Yayu  in  the  atmosphere,  and 
Surya  in  the  sky."  This  passage  is  quoted  at  greater  length  in  vol.  v.  of 
this  work,  p.  387  ff.  Comp.  the  other  passages  quoted  in  pp.  378-390,* 
and  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  12,^3,  1,  cited  in  p.  3£1,  note,  of  the  same  volume; 
and  S'atapaftia  Brahmana  xiv.,*  4,  2,  21,  and  23  (=Brihadaranyaka 
Upanishad  in  Biblioth'eca  Indica,  pp.  198  ff.^and  335). 

In   S'atapatta  Brahmana,   xiii.   7*,  4,    1,  Brahma   is   described   as 
sacrificing  himself:  Bfahma  vai  svayambhu  tapo  'tapyata  \  tad  aikshata 


30  CREATION  AS  DESCRIBED  BY  MAXU. 

< 

'  na  vat  tapagy  dnantyam  asti  hantp  aham  thuteshv  atmdnam  juhavdni 
bhutdni  cha  dtmani'  iti  \  tat  sarveshu  bhuteshv  atmdnam  hutvd 
bhutdni  cha  atmani  sarveshdm  bhutdndm  Sraishthyam  svdrdjyam  ddhi- 
patyam  paryait  \  tathaiva  etad  yajamdnah  sarvamedhe  sarvdn  medhdn 
hutva  sarvdni  bhutdni  sraishthyam  svdrdjymm  ddhipatyam  paryeti  \ 
"The  self-existent  Brahma  performed  austerity.  He  considered,  'in 
austerity  there  is  not  infinity.  Come  let  me  sacrifice  myself  in  created 
things,  and  created  things  in  myself.'  Then  having  sacrificed  himself 
in  all  created  things,  and  all  created  things  in  himself,  he  acquired 
superiority,  self-effulgence,  and  supreme  dominion  (compare  Manu, 
xii.  91).  Therefore  a  man  offering  all  oblations,  all  creatures,  in  the 
'  sarvamedha'  (universal  sacrifice),  obtains  superiority,  self-effulgence, 
and  supreme  dominion."75  See  also  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  1,  8,  2  f.,  quoted  in 
the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  pJ.  372,  note  554. 


The  following  is  the  account  of  the  creation,  given  at  a  later  period 
by  Manu,  i.  5  ff.,  founded,  no  doubt,  on  K.  V.  x.  129,  and  the  passages 
of  the  Sbtapatha  Brahmana,  given  above  (pp.  20  ff.),  or  some  other 
ancient  sources  of  the  same  character,  with  an  intermixture  of  more 
modern  doctrines : 

Asld  idam  tamobhutam  aprajndtam  alahhanam  \  apratarkyam  avijne- 
yam  prasuptam  wa  sarvatah  \  6.  Tatah  svayambhur  bhagavdn  avyakto 
vyanjayann  idam  \  mahabkutadi  vrittaujdh  prddurdsU  tamonudah  \  7. 
To  'suv  atlndriya-grdhyah  sukshmo  'vyaktah  sandtanah  \  sarva-bhutamayo 
'chintyah  sa  eva  svayam  udbabhau  \  8.  So ' bhidhydya sarlrdt svdt  sisnkshur 
vividhdh  prajdh  \  apah  eva  sasarjjddau  tdsu  vij'am  avdsrijat  \  9.  Tad 
andam  abhavad  haimam  sahasrdmsu-samaprabham  \  tasmimjajne  svayam 
Brahma,  sarva-loka-pitdmahah  \  IQ.Apo  ndrdh  iti proktdh  dpo  vai  nara- 
sunavah  \  tdh  yad  asydyanam  purvam  tena  Nd'/  dyanah  smritah  \  11.  Tat 
tat  kdranam  avyaktam  nityam  sadasaddtmakam  \  tad-visrishtah  sa  purusho 
loke  Srahmeti  klrtyate  \  12.  Tasminn  ande  sa  bhagavdn  ushitvd  parivat- 
saram  \  svayam  evdtmano  dhydndt  tad  andam  akarod  dvidhd  \  13.  tdbhydm 
sa  sakaldbhydncha  divam  bhumincha  nirname  \  madhye  vyom  i  disas  cha- 
shtdv  apdfn  sthdnam  cha  sdsvatam  \  -* 

5.  "  This  universe  was'  enveloped  in  darkness,  unperceived,  undis- 

78  See  the  discussion  on  the  sense  of  R.  V.  x.  81,  1,  fo,  6  (above,  pp.  9  f.). 


KULLUKA'S  EXPLANATION  OF  THE  PASSAGE.  31 

> 

tinguishable,  undiscoverabl«,  unknowable,  as  it  were  entirely  sunk  in 
sleep.  6.  Then  the  irresistible  self-existent  Lord,  undiscerned,  causing 
this  universe  with  th'e  five  elements  and  all  other  things,  to  become 
discernible,  was  manifested,  dispelling  the  gloom.  7.  He  who  is  be- 
yond the  cognizance  of  the  senses,  subtile,  undiscernible,  eternal,  who 
is  the  essence  of  all  beings,  and  inconceivable,  ^rimself  shone  forth. 
8.  He,  desiring,  seeking  to  produce  various  creatures  from  his  own 
body,  first  created  the  waters,  and  deposited  in  them  a  seed.  9.  This 
[seed]  became  a  golden  egg,  resplendent  as  the  sun,  in  which  he  him- 
self was  born  as  Brahma,  the  progenitor  of  all  the  worlds.  10.  The 
waters  are  called  '  narah,'  because  they  are  the  offspring  of  Nara ;  and 
since  they  were  formerly  the  place  of  his  movement  (ayana\  he  is 
therefore  called  Narayana.  11.  Being  formed  by  that  First  Cause, 
undiscernible,  eternal,  which  is  both  e'xis^ent  and  non-existent,  that 
Male  (puru&ha)  is  known  in  the  world  as  Brahma.  12.  That  lord 
having  continued  a  year  in  the  egg,  divided  it  into  two  parts  by  his 
mere  thought.  13.  "Witlj  these  two  sheik  he  formed  the  heavens  and 
the  earth;  and  in  the  middle  he  placed  the  sky,  the  eight  regions, 
and  the  eternal  abode  of  the  waters." 

It  will  be  observed  from  verses  9-11,  that  the  appellation  Narayana 
is  applied  to  Brahma,  and  that  no  mention  is  made  of  Vishnu. 

On  verse  8  Kulluka  annotates  thus :  '  Tad  andam,  abhavad  haimam1 
Hi  |  tad  vyam  Paramesvarechhayd  haiman  andam  abhavad  haimam  iva 
haimam  suddhi-guna-yogdd  n®  tu  haimam  eva  \  tadlyaika-sakalena  Ihu- 
mi-nirmdnasya  vakshyamdnatvdd  Ihumeichdhaimatvasya  pratyahshatvtid 

upachdrdsrayanam tasminn  ande  Hiranyagarbho  jatavdn  \  yena 

purva-janmani  ' Hirqnyagarbho  'ham  asmi*  iti  bheddbheda-ithdvanayd 
Paramesvaropdsand  Jcritd  tadiyam  linga-sartruvachhinna-jlvam  anupra- 
visya  svayam  Paramdtmd  eva  Hiranyagarbha-rupatayd  prddurlhutah  \ 
"'That  [seed]  became  a  gslden  egg,'  etc.  That  seed  by  the  will  of 
the  deity  became  a  golden  egg.  Golden,  i.e.  as  it  were  golden,  from 
the  quality  of  purity  attaching  to  it,  and  not  really  golden ;  for  since  < 
the  author  proceeds  *to  describe  the  formation  of  the  earth  from  one 
of  the  halved  of  its  shell,  and  since  we  know  by  ocular  proof  that  the 
earth  is  not  golden,  we  see  that  a  mere  figure  of  speech  is  here  in- 
tended. .  .  .  ,  In  that  egg  Hiranyagurbha  was  produced :  i.e.  entering 
into  the  living  soul, — invested  with  a  subtile  body, — of  that  person 


32          HIRANYAGARBHA  ACCORDING  TO  THE  HARIVANF'A. 

( 

by  whom  in  a  former  birth  the  deity  was  worshipped,  with  the 
contemplation  of 'distinctness  and  identity  expressed  in  the  words, 
'  I  am  Hiranyagarbha,'  the  supreme  Spirit  himself  became  manifested 
in  the  form  of  Hiranyagarbha." 

The  creation  is  narrated  in  a  similar  manner,  but  without  the  intro- 
duction of  any  metaphysical  elements,  in  the  Harivamsa,-vv.  35  ff. : 
Tatah  svayambhur  bhagavdn  sisrikshur  vividhtih  prajdh  \  apah  eva  sasarjjd- 
dau  tdsu  mjam,  avdsrijat  \  dpo  ndrdh  iti  proktdh  dpo  vai  nara-sunavah  \ 
ayanam  tasya  tdh  purvam  tena  ndrdyanah  smritah  \  Jiiranyavarnam 
abhavat  tad  andam  udakesayam  \  tatrajajne  svayam  Brahma  svayambhur 
iti  nah  irutam  \  Hiranyagarbho  bhagavdn  mhitvd  parivatsaram  \  tad 
andam  akarod  dvaidham  divnm  bhuvam  athdpi  eha  \  tayoh  sakalayor 
madhye  dkdsam  asrijat  prabhuli  \  apsu  pdriplavdm  prithvlm  disascha 
dasadhd  dadhe  \  „. 

"  Then  the  self-existent  lord,  desiring  to  produce  various  creatures, 
first  of  all  formed  the  waters,  and  deposited  in  them  a  seed.  The 
waters  are  called  'narah,'  for  they  are  the  offspring  of  I^ara.  They 
were  formerly  the  place  of  his  movement ;  hence  he  is  called  '  Nara- 
yana.'  "That  seed  became  a  golden-coloured  egg,  reposing  on  the 
water :  in  it  the  self-existent  Brahma  himself  was  born,  [or,  in  it  he 
himself  was  born  as  the  self-existent  Brahma],  as  we  have  heard. 
The  divine  Hiranyagarbha  having  dwelt  [in  the  egg]  a  year,  divided 
it  into  two  parts,  heaven  and  earth.  In  the  midst  between  these  two 
shells,  the  Lord  created  the  a?ther,  and  the  earth  floating  about  on  the 
waters,  and  placed  the  regions  in  ten  directions." 

In  a  later  part  of  the  same  work  we  find  another  account  of  the 
production  of  Hiranyagarbha : 

Harivamsa,  vv.  12,  425  ff. — Jagat-srashtu-mandlf  devas  cJiintaydmdsa 
purvatah  \  tasya  chintayato  vaktrdd  nihsritah  purushah  kila  \  tatah  sa 
purusho  devam  kim  karomity  upashthitah  \  f pratyuvdcha  smitam  kritvd 
deva-devo  jagat-patih  \  '  mbhafdtmdnam '  ity  uktvd  gato  'ntardhunam 
Isvarah  \  antarhitasya  devasya ,  sasarirasya  bhdsvatah  \  pradipasyeva 
sdntasya  gatis  tasya  na  vidyatg  \  tatas  teneritdm  panlm  so  *machintayata 
prabhuh  \  "  Iliranyagarlho  lhagai'dn  ylth  esha  chhandasti  &utah  \  ekah 
prajdpatih  pun-am  .abhavad  Ihuvanddhipah  \  tddd-prdbliriti  tasyddyo 
yajna-bhdgo  vidhlyate  \  '  vibhajatnunam'  ity  iiktas  tendsmi  sumahdtmand  \ 
katham  dtmd  vMajyah  sydt  saihsayo  liy  atra  me  nahdn  "  \ 


,   PRIMEVAL  WATERS ;   BRAHMA  AS  A  BOAR.  33 

"Being  desirous  to  create  the  world,  the  deity  formerly  meditated. 
As  he  meditated,  a  man  (purusha)  issued  from  his  mouth.  This  man 
then  approached  the*  deity,  [saying]  '  what  am  I  to  do  ? '  The  god 
of  gods,  the  lord  of  the  world,  answered  smiling,  '  divide  thyself.' 
Having  thus  spoken,  the.  lord  vanished.  The  path  of  the  radiant 
embodied  deity,  when  he  has  vanished,  is  not  known,  like  that  [of 
the  flame]  of  an  extinguished  taper.  The  lord  then  meditated  [thus] 
upon  the  word  which  the  deity  had  uttered :  '  This  divine  Hiranya- 
garbha,  who  is  celebrated  in  the  Vedic  hymn,  was  formerly  the  one 
sole  Prajapati,  the  ruler  of  tne  world.  Thenceforward  the  first  half 
of  the  sacrifice  is  allotted  to  him.  "Divide  thyself," — thus  have  I  been 
commanded  by  that  mighty  being.  But  how  is  the  self  to  be  divided  ? 
Here  I  have  great  doubt.'  "  Then  follow  the  verses  which  have  been 
quoted  in  the  third  volume  of  this  work,  p,  13  f.,  to  which  I  refer. 

The  Ramayana,  which  I  quote  first  according  to  the  recension  of 
Schlegel  (which  here  coincides  with  thet  Serampore,  and  essentially 
with  the  Bombay,  editions),  thus  describes  the  origin  of  the  world : 

llamayana  (Schlegel's  ed.),  ii.  110,  2  if. — Imam  loka-samutpattim 
loka-niitlia  nibodha  me  \  3.  Sarvam  salilam  evdsltprithivl  yatra  nirmitd  |78 
tatah  samabhavad  Brahma  svayambhur  daivataih  saha  \  4.  Sa  vardhas 
tato  bhutud  projjahdra  vasundharam  \  asrijachcha  jagat  sarvam  saha 
putraih  kritdtmabhih  \  5.  Akdsa-prabhavo  Brahma  &a£vato  nityam 
avyayah  \  tasmdd  Marlchih  sanjajne  Marlcheh  Kasyapah  sutah  \  6. 
Vivasvdn  Kasyapdj  jaj'ne  Manur  Vivasvatah  smritah  \  sa  tu  Prajapati h 
purvam  ityddi  \ 

Vasishtha  says:  ^Lord  of  the  people,  understand  from' me  this 
[account  of]  the  origin  of  the  worlds.  3.  All  was  water  only,  in 
which  the  earth  was  formed.  Thence  arose  Brahma,  the  self-existent, 
ivith  the  deities.  4.  He  thea,  becoming  a  boar,77  raised  up  the  earth, 
and  created  the  whole  world  yiith  the  saints,  his  sons.  5.  Brahma, 
eternal,  and  perpetually  undecaying,  sprang  from  the  ether;  from  him 
was  descended0  Marlchi  •  the  son  of  Marl^hi  was  Kasyapa.  6.  From 
Kasyapa  sprang  Yivasvat,  and  Matu  is  declared  to  have  been  Vivasvat's 
son.  He  (Manu)  was  formerly  the  Prajapati,"  etc.  » 

,  *    . 

76  See  Appendix  A.  » 

77  Compare  S'atapatba  Branmana,  14,  1,  2,  11,  quoted  above,  p.  27. 

VOL.  iv.  '  *  3 


34  PEIMEVAL  WATERS ;  VISHNU  AS  A  BOAR.    «' 

( 

It  will  be  observed  that  here  it  is  Brahma  who  assumes  the  form 
of  a  boar  to  raise  up  the  earth  from  under  the  ocean.  In  the  Gauda 
recension  of  Gorresio,  however,  this  function  is  transferred  to  Vishnu  ; 
and  this  I  regard  ^as  one  proof  that  this  recension  of  the  text  is  more 
modern  than  that  followed  by  Schlegel.  I'"have  indicated  by  italics 
in  my  translations  tKe  important  points  in  which  the  |.wd  recensions 
differ  from  one  another. 

Ramayana  (Gorresio's  ed.),  ii.  119,  2  ff. — Imam  loka-samutpattim 
lolca-ndtha  nibodha  me  \  3.  Sarvam  salilarp.  evdslt  vasudhd  yena  nirmitd  \ 
tatah  samabhavad  Brahma  svayambhur  Vishnur  avyayah  \  4.  Sa  vardho 
'tha  bhutvemam  ujjahdra  vasundhardm  \  asrijachcha  jagat  sarvam  sachara- 
charam  avyayam  \  5.  Akdsa-'pralhavo  Brahma  sdsvato  nityam  avyayah  \ 
tasmdd  Marwhih  sanjajne  Marlr.Jteh  Kasyapah  sutah  \  6.  Tatah  parydya- 
sargena  Vtiasvan  asrijad  Ifanum  ityddi  \ 

"Lord  of  the  people,  understand  from  me  this  [account  of]  the 
origin  of  the  worlds.  3.  All  was  water  only,  through  which  the  earth 
was  formed.  Thence  arose 'Brahma,  the  self-existent,  the  imperishable 
Vishnu*.  4.  He  then,  becoming  a  boar,  raised  up  this  earth,  and 
created  the  whole  world,  movable  and  immovable,  imperishable.  5. 
Brahma,  eternal,  and  perpetually  undecaying,  sprang  from  the  ether ; 
from  him  was  descended  Marichi;  the  son  of  Marichi  was  Kasyapa. 
6.  By  successive  creation,  Vivasvat  created  Manu,"  etc. 

It  will  be  noticed  that  at  the  end  of  the  third  sloka,  the  reading  of 
the  first  recension,  viz.  Brahma  svayambhur  daivataih  saha,  "  Brahma, 
the  self-existent,  with  the  deities"  is,  in  the  second,  changed  into 
Brahmd  svayambhur  Vishnur  avyayah,  "  Brahma,  the  self-existent,  the 
imperishable  Vishnu,"  whereby  Brahma  becomes  a  mere  manifestation 
of  Vishnu, — a  character  of  which  we  have  no'  hint  in  the  earlier 
recension.  Similarly  the  words  which  aref  given  in  Schlegel's  recen- 
sion, at  the  close  of  the  fourth  sloka,  viz.  saha  putraih  kritdtmabhih, 
"with  the  saints,  his  sons,"  are  in  the  other  recension  altered  into 
sachardcharam  avyayam,  "movable  and  immovable,  and  imperishable" 
— epithets  descriptive  of  {he  world.  This  <  second  alteration  was 
rendered  necessary  by  the  first :  for  as  soon  as  the  god  who  is  the 
subject  of  the  passage  hr,d  be?1!  changed  from  Brahma  to  Yishnu,  the 
mention  of  sons  became  inapplicable ;  as  Vishnu  is  Hot  described  in 
the  accounts  of  the  creation  as  having  any  sons,  whereas  Brahma  is. 


»     WATERS  PRODUCED  FROM  THE  ETHER.  35 

Compare  with  the  fifth  ve"rse  of  the  passage  before  us  (in  Schlegel's 
text),  the  Vishnu  Purana,  i.  7,  1  ff . ;  quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this 
work,  pp.  64  f.  The  accounts  of  Brahma's  descendants  are  not, 
however,  always  consistent.  See  Manu,  i.  32  ff.,  and  Vishnu  Purana, 
i.  7,  12  ff.,  quoted  in  pp.  35  ff.,  and  64  f.,  of  vol.  i. 

The  origin  pf  the  world  is  similarly  described'in  the  Mahabharata 
xii.  6805  f. 

Bhrigur  uvdcha  \  Prajd-visargam  vividham  Mdnaso  manasd  'srijat  \ 
samrakshandrtham  bhutdndm  tsrishtam  prathamyto  jalam  \  yah  prdnah 
sarva-bhutdnam  vardhante  yena  cha  prajdh  \  parityaktds  cha  nasyanti 
tenedaih  sarvam  dvritam  \  prithivl  parvatdh  meghdh  murtimantas  cha  ye 
'pare  \  sarvam  tad  vdrunam  jqeyam  dpaS  tastambhire  yatah  |  .  .  .  . 
Brahmakalpe  purd  brahman  brahmarshindm  samdgame  \  lolca-sambha- 
ra-sandehah  samutpannq  mahdtmandm  \  Te  Hishthan  dhydnam  alambya 
maunam  dsthdya  nischaldh  \  tyaktdhdrdh  pavana-pdh  divyam  varsha- 
satam  dvijdh  \  teshdm  Brahmamayl  vdnl  sarveshaih  srotram  dgamat  \ 
divyd  Sarasvatl  Mr  a  samibalhuva  nabhastxldt  \  purd  stimitam  dlcdsam 
anantam  achalopamam  \  nashta-chandrdrka-pavanam  prasuptym  iva 
sambabhau  \  tatah  salilam  -utpannam  tamaslvdparam  tamah  \  tasmdch  cha 
salilotplddd  udatishthata  mdrutah  \ 

"  Bhrigu  says :  Manasa™  (the  Intellectual)  formed  by  a  mental 
effort  the  varied  creation  of  living  beings.  For  the  preservation  of 
creatures  water  was  first  produced, — water  which  is  the  breath  of  all 
creatures,  by  which  they  grow,  and  forsaken  by  which  they  die  : — by  it 
all  things  were  covered.  The  earth,  the  mountains,  the  clouds,  and 
other  material  objects ; — all  these  things  must  be  understood  as  aqueous, 
because  the  waters  supported  them."  Bharadvaja  asks  how  water, 
fire,  air  [or  wind], •  and  earth  were  created,  and  Bhrigu  replies: 
"  Formerly,  in  an  assemblage  of  Brahman  rishis,  in  the  Brahmakalpa,  a 
doubt  arose  in  their  minds  a%  to  the  production  of  the  worlds.  These 
Brahmans  continued  fixed  in  meditation  and  in  silence,  eating  no  food, 
drinking  in  only  air,  for  a  hundred  years  of  the  gods.  A  voice,  of  the 

essence  of  Brahma,  reacted  the  ears  of  theJn.  all  r  the  divine  Sarasvatl 
»  * 

78  This  word  is  defined  inV  6775  :  Manaso  nama  yah purvo  yisruto  vai  maharthi- 
bhih  |  ancidi-nidhano  devas  tatha  'bhedt/o  'jarqtiiarah  |^'  The  primeval  god,  without 
beginning  or  dissolution,  indivisible,  undecaying  and  imnvortal,  who  is  known  and 
called  by  great  rishis  Manasa,"*  etc. 


36  BHAGAVATA  AND  VISHNU  PURANAS          < 

i 

sprang  forth  from  the  heavens.  Formerly  the  infinite  ether,  motion- 
less, like  a  mountain, — moon,  sun  and  air  having  been  destroyed  in  it, — 
appeared  as  it  were  asleep.  Then  water  was  produced  like  another 
darkness  (tamas}  in  darkness,  and  from  the  foam  of  that  water  arose  air." 


Before  proceeding  to  quote  the  other  texts  which  I  have  to  adduce  re- 
garding the  egg  of  Brahma,  I  shall  here  introduce  two  quotations,  to  show 
how  the  assumption  of  the  form  of  a  boar,  ascribed  in  the  older  recension 
of  this  passage  of  the  Ramayana  to  Brahma,  is  in  works  of  a  later 
date  represented  as  the  act  of  Vishnu.  The  first  passage  forms  a  part 
of  the  rapid  enumeration  of  the  twenty-two  incarnations  of  Vishnu,  in 
the  Bhagavata  Purana,  L  3,  7 :  Dvitlyam  tu  bhavdydsya  rasd-tala-gatdm 
mahlm  \  uddharishyann  updsj,atta  yajnesah  saukarafii  vapuh  \  "  Secondly, 
with  a  view  to  the  creation  of  this  universe,  the  lord  of  sacrifice,  being 
desirous  to  raise  up  the  earth,  which  had  sunk  into  the  lower  regions, 
assumed  the  form  of  a  boar,"  c 

The  second  passage  to  be  adduced  is  from  the  Vishnu  Purana,  i.  4, 
1  ft.  (p.  57  ff.  of  Wilson's  English  trans.,  Dr.  Hall's  ed.,  vol.  i.),  and  has 
been  already  partly  quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  50  f.  : 

Maitreya  uvacha  \  Brahma  Ndrdyanalchyo  'sau  Icalpddau  bhagavdn 
yathd  |  sasarjja  sarva-bhutdni  tad  dchalcshva  mahdmune''9  \  Parasarah 
uvacha  prajdh  sasarjja  bhagavan  Brahma  Ndrdyandtmalcah  \  prajdpati- 
patir  devo  yathd  tan  me  nisdmaya  \  atlta-kalpdvasdne  nisd-suptotthitah 
prabhuh  |  sattvodriktas  tato  Brahma,  sunyam  lokam  avaikshata  \  Ndrd- 
yanah  paro  'chintyah  pareshdm  api  sa  prabhuh  \  Brahma-svarupl  bhaga- 

79  I  take  the  opportunity  of  quoting  here  an  answer  giVen  in  the  Vishnu  Purana, 
i.  3,  1  ff.  (p.  44  of"Wilson's  trans,  in  Dr.  Hall's  ed.  vol.  i.),'to  the  question  how  it  is 
conceivable  that  Brahma  should  create ; — an  answer  which,  if  admitted  as  the  only 
solution  of  the  problem,  would  have  rendered  (m'ctny  speculations  of  the  Indian 
philosophers  unnecessary.  Maitreyah  uvacha  \  nirgunasyaprameyasya  suddhasyapy 
amalatmanah  \  katham  sargadikarttritvam  Srahmano  'bhyupapadyate  \  Parasarah 
uvacha  \  saktayah  sarva-bhavanam^  achintya-jnana-gocharah  \  yato  'to  Brahmanas 
tas  tu  sargadyah  bhava-saktayah  \  bhavanti  tapasam  sresMha  pavafasya yathoshnuta  \ 
"  Maitreya  asks :  How  can  the  agencies  of  creation,  etc.J'be  possible  to  Brahma,  who 
is  devoid  of  the  [three]  qualities,  immeasurable,  pure,  and  free  from  sfcain  ?  Parasara 
answers :  Since  powere  which  could  not  be  imagined  [?]  kre  actu  illy  known  to  belong 
to  all  natures,  therefore,  0  'chief  ,0*1  .ascetics,  these  powers  of  creative  agency,  etc., 
belong  to  the  essence  of  Brahma,  as  heat  is  an  attribute  of  fire."  'Dr.  Hall  translates 
differently.  See  his  note.  Can  the  proper  reading  be  achintyah  in  place  of  achintya  ? 


9      ON  VISHNU'S  INCARNATION  AS  A  BOAR.  37 

van  anddih  sarva-sambhavcth  \  toyan\ali  sa  mahlih  jndtvd  jagaty  ekdrnave 
prabhuh  \  anumdndd  tad-uddhdram  karttu-kdmah  Prajdpatih  \  akarot 
sa  tanum  anydm  kalpddishu  yatJid  purd  \  matsya-kurmddikdm  tadvad 
vdrdham  vapur  dshthitah  \  veda-yajnamayarn  rupam  asesha-jagatah 
sthitau  |  sthitah  sthirdtmd  sarvdtmd  paramdtmd  Prajdpatih  \  janaloka- 
gataih  sidd%aih  Sanakddyair  abhishtutah  \  pravivtsa  tada  toyam  dtmd- 
dhdro  dharddharah  \  nirlkshya  tarn  tadd  devl  pdtdla-taJam  dgatam  \ 
tmhtdva  pranatd  bhutvd  lhakti-namrd  vasundhard  \  Prithvy  urdcha  \ 
Namas  te  sarva-lhutdya  t^(lJ)hyam  £ankha-gadd-dhara  \  mum  uddhar- 
dsmdd  adya  tvam  tvatto  'ham  purvam  utthitd  \  .  .  .  .  samlJiaksJiayitvd 
sakalarn  jagaty  ekdrna viler ite  \  seshe  tvam  eva  Govinda  chintyamtino 
mariishilhih  \  bhavato  yat  param  rupam 'tan  najdndti  kaschana  \  avatdr- 
esJiu  yad  rupam  tad  archanti  divaukasah  \  tvdm  drddhya  param  Brahma 

9 

ydtdh  muktim  mumuksjiavah  \  Vdsudevam  avdrddhya  ko  moksham  sama- 
vdpsyati  |  .  .  .  .  tvam  yajnas  tvam  vashatkdras  tvam  omkdras  tvam 
agnayah  |  .  .  .  .  Evam  samstuyamtinas  tu  Prithivyd  prithivl-dharah  \ 
sdma-svara-dhvanih  srlmfm  jagarjja  parighyrgharam  \  tatah  samutkshipya 
dhardm  sa  damsJitrayd  mahuvardhah  sphuta-padma-lochanah  \  rasdtaldd 
utpala-patra-sannilhah  mmutihito  rillah  ivdchalo  mahdn  |  .  .  .  .  evain 
samstuyamunas  tu  Paramdtmd  maltldharah  \  ujjahdra  mahim  kshipram 
nyastavdms  cha  mahdmlhasi  \  tasyopari  jalaughasya  mahatl  naur  iva 
sthitd  |  vitatatvdt  tu  dehasya  na  mahl  ydti  samplavam  \ 

"  Maitreya  said:  Tell  me,  great  Muni,  how,  at  the  beginning  of  the 
Kalpa,  that  divine  Brahma  called  Narayana  created  all  beings.  Parasara 
replied:  Hear  from  me  how  the  divine  Brahma,  lord  of  the  Prajapatis, 
who  had  the  nature  of  Narayana,  created  living  beings.  At  the  close  of  the 
past  (or  Padma)  Kalpa,  Brahma,  the  lord,  endowed  predominantly  with 
the  quality  of  goodness,  awoke  from  his  night-slumber,  and  beheld  the 
universe  void.  He  [was]  the  supreme  lord  Narayana,  who  cannot  even 
be  conceived  by  others,  existing  in  the  form  of  Brahma,  the  deity  with- 
out beginning,  the  source  of  all  things.  [The  verse  given  in  Manu 
i.  10,  and  the  Harivansa,  v.  36,  regarding  the  derivation  of  the  word* 
^arayana,  is  here  qupted.]  This  lord  iPrajapati,  discovering  by  in- 
ference,— wnen  the  world  had  become  one  ocean, — that  the  earth  lay 
within  the  waters,  and  being  desirous^to  raj^e  it  «p,  assumed  another 
form.  As  he^had  formerly,  at  the  commencement  of  the  [previous] 
Kalpas,  taken  the  shap'e  of  a  fish,  a  tortoise,  etc.  (so  now),  entering 


38  VISHNU'S  INCARNATION  AS  A  BOAR.         i 

t 

the  body  of  a  boar, — a  form  composed  of  the  Vedas  and  of  sacrifice, 
— the  lord  of  creatures,  who  throughout  the  entire  continuance  of  the 
world  remains  fixed,  the  universal  soul,  the  supreme  soul,  the  self- 
sustained,  the  supporter  of  the  earth,  hymned  by  Sanaka  and  other 
saints  residing  in  the  Janaloka,  entered  tb.3  water.  Beholding  him 
then  descended  to  fatala,  the  goddess  Earth,  bowing  down,  pro- 
strated in  devotion,  sang  his  praise  :  '  Reverence,  bearer  of  the  shell 
and  club,  to  thee  who  art  all  things :  raise  me  to-day  from  this 

place:  by  thee  have  I ( been  formerly  lifted Having  swallowed 

up  the  universe,  when  the  world  has  become  one  ocean,  thou,  Govinda, 
sleepest,  meditated  upon  by  the  wise.  No  one  knows  that  which 
is  thy  highest  form :  the  rgdds  adore  that  form  which  [thou  as- 
sumest]  in  thy  incarnations.  Worshipping  thee,  the  supreme  Brahma, 
men  desirous  of  final  liberation,  have  attained  their  object.  Who 

shall   obtain  liberation  without  adoring  Yasudeva? Thou 

art  sacrifice,  thou  art  the  vashatkara  (a  sacrificial  formula),  thou 
art  the  omkara,  thou  art  the  fires.'  ....  Being  thus  celebrated  by 
the  Earth,  the  glorious  upholder  of  the  earth,  with  a  voice  like  the 
chanting  of  the  Samaveda,  uttered  a  deep  thundering  sound.  Then 
the  great  boar,  with  eyes  like  the  expanded  lotus,  tossing  up  the  earth 
with  his  tusk,  rose  up,  resembling  the  leaf  of  the  blue  lotus,  from  the 
lower  regions,  like  the  great  blue  mountain.  ....  [The  boar  is  then 
again  lauded  by  Sanandana  and  other  saints,  in  a  hymn,  in  the  course 
of  which  his  different  members  are  compared  in  detail  to  some  of  the 
materials  and  implements  of  sacrifice,  etc. — See  Wilson's  Vishnu 

Purana,   2nd  ed.,  i.,  pp.  63  ff.] Being  thus  hymned,   the 

supreme  Soul,  the  upholder  of  the  earth,  lifted  the  earth  up  quickly, 
and  placed  it  upon  the  great  waters.  Resting*  upon  this  mass  of 
waters,  like  a  mighty  ship,  the  earth  does  not  sink,  owing  to  the 
expansion  of  its  bulk."80  See  also  the  Mafiikbharata  iii.  10932  ff. 

t 

80  Another  instance  in  which  an  ac£  ascribed  to  Brahma,  by  earlier  writers  is  trans- 
ferred to  Vishnu  in  the  later  Puranas,  may  be  found  in"' the  story  of  the  deluge 
in  the  Mbh.,  Vanaparva,  12,  797  if.  (see  the,first  volumt  of  this  work,  pp.  196  ff.); 
towards  the  conclusion  of  which,  vv.  12,  797  f.,  the  (Fish  declares  himself  to  be 
Brahma:  Atliabravld  gjiimishas  tan  risliln  sa  hitas  tada  \  aham  Prajapatir  Brahma 
yat-param  nadhigamyate  \  manya-rufieqa  yuyancfia  maya  'smad  mokshitah  bhayat  \ 
"Then  the  god  (lit.  the  unwinking),  kindly-disposed,  said  to  those'rishis,  '  I  am  the 
Prajiipati  Brahma,  above  whom  no^eing  is  discoverable':  by  me  in  the  form  of  a  fish 


,          BRAHMA'S  INCARNATION  AS  A  BOAR.  39 

The  Linga  Parana,  however,  which  is  of  the  S'aiva  class,  and  has 
not,  as  such,  any  interest  in  glorifying  Yishnu,  describes  Brahma  as 
the  deity  who  took*  the  form  of  a  boar :  Part  i.  4,  59  ff. :  Rdtrau 
chaikdrnave  Brahmd  nashte  sthdvara-jangame  \  sushvdpdmbhasi  yas 
tasmdd  Ndrdyanah  iti  sj/nritah  \  sarvary-ante  praluddho  vai  drishfvd 
sunyam  chardcharam  \  srashtufh  tadd  matim  chakre  Brahmd  Irahma- 
viddm  varah  \  udakair  dplutdm  kshmdm  turn  samdddya  sandtanah  \ 
purva-vat  sthdpaydmdsa  vdrdham  rupam  dsthitah  \  "In  the  night, 
when  all  things  movable  and  immovable  had  been  destroyed 'in  the 
universal  ocean,  Brahma  slept  upon  the  waters,  and  is  hence  called 
Narayana.  At  the  close  of  the  night,  awaking,  and  beholding  the 
universe  void,  Brahma,  chief  of  the  knojvers  of  Brahma,  then  resolved 
to  create.  Having  assumed  'the  form  of  a  boar,  this  eternal  [god] 
taking  the  earth,  which  was  overflowed  by  the  waters,  placed  it  as 
it  had  been  before." 

[In  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon,  s.  v.  vardha,  reference  is  made 
to  a  further  passage  from  the  Taitt.  S.  vi.  2,  42,  in  which  the  boar  is 
mentioned  (see  above,  pp.  27  f.).  I  quote  this  with  another  story 
which  follows  it :  Yajno  devebhyo  nildyata  Vislmurupam  kfitvd  \  sa 
prithivlm  prdvisat  \  tarn  devdh  hastdn  samrabliya  aichhan  \  tarn  Indrah 
upary  upary  aty  akrdmat  \  so  'bravlt  "  ko  md  'yam  upary  upary  aty 
akramld"  iti  \  "  aham  durge  hantd"  Hi  \  atha  tlkas  tvam"  iti  \ 
" aham  durgdd  dhartd  "  iti  \  so  'bravld  "durge  vai  hantd  avochathdh  \ 
vardho  'yam  vdmamo&hah  saptdndm  girlndm  parastdd  vittam  vedyam 

you  have  been  delivered  from  this  danger.' "  Compare  the  "story  as  told  in  the  Bhag. 
Pur.  (and  see  Burnouf,  Pref.  to  Bhag.  Pur.,  iii.  p.  sxiii.).  Bhag.  Pur.  viii.  24,  4 : 
Ity  ukto  Vishnuratena*  bhygavan  Vadaruyanih  \  uvacha  charitam  Vulmor  matsya- 

rupena  yat  kritam  \  S'ukah  uvacha  \ 7.  asld  atlta-kalpante  Brahmo  nai- 

mittiko  layah  \  samudropaplutus  tatra  lokah  bhuradayo  nripa  \  8.  Kalenagata-nidrasya* 
dhatith  sisayishor  ball  \  mukhpto  nihsritan  vedan  Hayagrlvo  'titike  'karat  \  9.  Jnalva 
tad  danavendrasya  Hayagrlvasifa  cheshtitam  \  dadhura  sapharlrupam  bhagavun  Harir 
Is  varah  ityadi  \  "Being  thus  addressed  by  Yishnuruta,  the  divine  Yadarayani  related 
the  deed  of  Yishnu  done  by  him  under  the  form  of  a  fish.  S'uka  said  ....  7.  At 
the  end  of  the,past  Kalya  there  was  a  Brahmh,  or  partial,  dissolution  of  the  universe 
(see  \Yilson's  Vish.  PUJ^,  2nd  ed.,  vol.  L,  p.-»113;  vol.  v.,  p.  186);  in  which  the 
earth  and  oflier  worlds  were  submerged  under  the  ocean.  The  powerful  Hayagrlva 
[coming]  near,  snatched  away  the  Yedas  which  had  issued  from  the  mouth  of  the 
creator,  who  from  drowsiness,  which  had  si^)erven<yl  throiTgh  time,  was  disposed  to 
sleep.  HavingMiscovered  this  deed  of  Hayagrlva,  chief  of  the  Danavas,  the  divine 
lord,  Hari,  took  the  form  -of  a  saphari  fish,"  etc. 


40  STORIES  FROM  THE  TAITTIRIYA  SANHITA. 

( 

Asurdndm  lilharti  tarn  jahi  yadi  jHurge  hantd  '««"  iti  \  sa  darlha- 
punjllam  udvrihya  sapta  girln  bhittva  tarn  ahan  \  so  'bravld  "  durgdd 
vai  dhartd  avochathdh  \  etam  dhara  "  iti  \  tarn  ebliyo  yajnah  eva  yajnam 
dharat  \  yat  tad  vittam  vedyam  asurdndm  avindanta  tad  ekam  vedyai 
veditvam  \  Asurdndm  vai  iyam  agre  dstt  \  y&vad  dslnah  pardpasyati 
tdvad  devdndm  \  te  favdh  abruvann  "astv  eva  no  'sydm  upi"  iti  \ 
"  Kiyad  vo  ddsydmah"  Hi  \  ydvad  iyam  saldvrikl  trih  parikrdmati 
tdvan  no  datta  "  iti  \  sa  Indrah  saldvrilci-rupam  hritvd  imam  trih  sarva- 
tah  paryalcrdmat  \  tad  imam  avindanta  \  yad  imdm  avindanta  tad  vedyai 
veditvam  \  sd  vai  iyam  sarvd  eva  vediJi  \ 

"The  sacrifice,  assuming  the  form  of  Vishnu,  disappeared  from 
among  the  gods,  and  entered  "into  the  earth.  The  gods  joined  hands, 
and  searched  for  him.  Indra  passed  over  above  him.  He  (Vishnu) 
said,  '  Who  is  this  who  has  passed  over  above  me  ?'  (Indra  replied  :) 
'I  am  he  who  slays  in  a  castle ;  but  now  who  art  tbou ? '  (Vishnu 
said :)  'I  am  he  who  carries  off  from  a  castle.'  He  (Vishnu)  said  :  'Thou 
hast  said  a  slayer  in  a  castlq.  This  boar,  tbje  plunderer  of  wealth, 
keeps  the  goods  of  the  Asuras  on  the  other  side  of  seven  hills.  Kill 
him,  if  thou  art  a  slayer  in  a  castle.'  He  (Indra),  plucking  up  a 
bunch  of  Kusa  grass,  pierced  through  the  seven  hills,  and  slew  him. 
He  (Indra)  then  said:  'Thou  hast  said  /  am  he  who  carries  off  from  a 
castle;  so  carry  him  off.'  He  (Vishnu),  the  sacrifice,  carried  off  the 
sacrifice  for  them.  Inasmuch  as  they  obtained  (avindanta}  these  goods 
of  the  Asuras,  this  is  one  reason  why  the  altar  is  called  vedi. 

"This  earth  formerly  belonged  to  the  Asuras,  whilst  the  gods  had 
only  as  much  as  a  man  can  see  when  sitting.  They  (the  gods)  said, 
'  Let  us  have  a  share  in  this  earth  also  ? '  '  How,,much  shall  we  give 
you?'  (asked  the  Asuras).  'As  much  as  this  she- jackal  can  go  round 
in  three  (steps).'  Indra,  assuming  the  form  of  a  she-jackal,  stepped 
all  round  the  earth  in  three  (strides).  '-Thus  the  gods  obtained 
(avindanta)  it.  And  from  this  circumstance  the  altar  derives  its  name 
cf  vedi." 

Compare  the  various  stories  about  the  origina]  position  of  the  gods 
in  reference  to  the  Asuras,  given  above,  and  in  the  fifth  vol.  of  this 
work,  p.  15,  note].  <. 


MUNDANE  EGG  ACCORDING  TO  THE  VISHNU  PURANA.        41 


To  return  to  the  mundane  egg.  >In  the  Vishnu  Purana  i.  2,  45  ff. 
we  have  the  following  account  of  its  production,  in  which  the  sim- 
plicity of  the  older^nythical  conceptions  is  destroyed  hy  the  inter- 
mixture of  metaphysical  ideas  borrowed  from  the  Sankhya  philosophy. 
In  fact,  though  it  forms  hore  the  subject  of  a  magniloquent  description, 
the  egg  was  an  element  in  the  cosmogonic  traditions  with  which  any 
writers  less  ingenious  and  fanciful  than  the  authors  of  the  Puranas 
would,  perhaps,  have  found  it  somewhat  inconvenient  to  deal  in  such 
a  way  as  to  harmonize  with  the  current  philosophical  speculations : 
Akdsavdyu-tejdmsi  salilam  prithivl  tathd  \  sabdddibhir  gunair  brahman 
samyuktdny  uttarottaraih  \  sdntdh  ghords  cha  mudhds  cha  viseshds  tena 
te  smritdh  \  ndndvlryydh  prithaa-bhutds  tatas  te  samhatim  vinti  \  ndsa- 
knuvan  prajdh  srashtum  asamdgamya  kritsnasah  \  sametydnyonya-samyo- 
gam  paraspara-samdsraydh  \  eka-sanghdta-lakshyds  cha  samprdpyaikyam 
aseshatah  \  Purushddhishthitatvdch  cha,  Pradhdndnugrahena  cha  \  maha- 
dddayo  viseshdntdh  andam  utpddayanti  te  \  tat  kramena  vivridhham  tu 
jala-budbuda-vat  samam  \  hhutebhyo  'ndam  lyahdbuddhe  vrihat  tad  udake 
sayam  \  prdkritam  Brahma-rupasya  Vishnoh  samsthdnam  uttamam  \ 
tatrdvyakta-svarupo  'sau  vyakta-rupi  jagat-patih  \  Vishnur  Brahma- 
suarupena  svayam  eva  vyavasthitah  \  Meru-tulyam  abhut  tasya  jardyus 
cha  mahldhardh  \  garbhodakam  samudrds  cha  tasydsan  sumahdtmanah  \ 
sddri-dvlpa-samudras  cha  sajyotir  loka-sangrahah  \  tasminn  ande  'bhavad 
vipra  sa-devdsura-mdnushah  \  vdri-vahny-anildkdsais  tato  bhutddind 
vahih  |  vritam  dasagunair  andam  bhutddir  mahatd  tathd  \  avyaktendvrito 
brahmams  taih  sarvaih  sahito  mahdn  \  ebhir  dvaranair  andam  saptabhih 
prdkritair  vritam  \  ndrikela-phalasydntar  vljam  vdhya-dalair  iva  \  jushan 
rajo-gunam  tatra  svayum  visvesvaro  Harih  \  Brahma  bhutvd  '$ya  jagato 
visrishtau  samprauarttate  \ 

"Ether,  air,  fire,  water  and  earth,  when  joined  in  order,  with  sound 
and  the  other  qualities  in  Succession,  are  then  called  specific,  being 
soothing,  terrific,  or  stupefying,81  but  being  of  different  powers,  and 
separated  from  one  another,  they  could  r>ot,  without  contact,  and  with- 
out being  combined  together,  produce  living  creatures.  [At  length] 
having  attained  to  mutual  conjunction,  being  dependent  upon  each 
other,  having  a  tendency  to  amalgamation,  and  having  so  attained  an 

*  » '•» 

11  See  "Wilson's  Sankhya  Karika,  pp.  119  ff.,  and  Visdmu  Pur.,  2nd  ed.,  vol.  i., 

p.  38  ff. 


42  MUNDANE  EGG  AS  DESCRIBED 

entire  unity, — being  presided  overfby  Purusha  (spirit)  and  favoured  by 
Pradhana  (matter),  these  principles,  commencing  with  Mahat  (intellect), 
and  down  to  the  gross  elements  inclusive,  generate  an  egg.  Gradually 
augmented  from  the  elements,  smooth  like  a  bubble  of  water,  that  vast 
egg,  resting  on  the  water,  was  the  material  «and  appropriate  receptacde 
of  Vishnu  in  the  fonpi  of  Brahma.  There,  undiscernible  in1  his  essence, 
Vishnu,  the  lord  of  the  world,  himself  abode  in  a  discernible  shape,  in 
the  form  of  Brahma.  It  was  like  mount  Meru ;  the  mountains  were 
the  womb,  and  the  seas  were  the  uterine  fluids  of  that  vast  [production]. 
In  that  egg,  0  Brahman,  were  collected  the  worlds,  with  their  hills, 
continents,  and  oceans,  the  luminaries,  the  gods,  Asuras,  and  men. 
This  egg  was  enveloped  externally  by  water,  fire,  air,  ether,  and  the 
source  of  the  elements  (bhutddi,  i.e.  ahankd.ro)  increasing  in  tenfold 
progression;  and  in  the  sam,«  way  'Ahankara'  was  invested  by  'Mahat' ; 
and  Mahat  with  all  these  [aforesaid  principles]  was  surrounded  by  the 
indiscreet  principle  (Pradhana).  The  egg  is  enveloped  in  these  seven 
material  coverings,  as  the  seed  within  the  cpcoa-nut  is  surrounded  by 
the  outward  husks.  Assuming  there  the  quality  of  passion  (rajas} 
Hari,  the  universal  lord,  himself  becoming  Brahma,  engages  in  the 
creation  of  this  world." 

The  Vishnu  Purana  does  not  connect  the  egg  any  further  with  the 
creation,  or  tell  us  how  it  became  divided,  etc.,  etc. 

The  Linga  Purana,  Part  i.,  3,  28  ff.,  gives  a  similar  description  of 
the  egg :  Mahadddi-viseshdntdh  hy  andam  utpddayanti  cha  \  jala-bud- 
buda-vat  tasmdt  avatlrnah  Pitdmahah  \  sa  eva  bhagavdn  Rudro  Vishnur 
visvagatah  prabhuh  \  tasminn  ande  tv  ime  lokdh  antar  visvam  idamjagat  \ 
andam  dtisa-gunenaiva  nabhasd  vahyato  vritam  \  djfdsas  chdvritas  tadvad 
ahankd'rena  sabdajah  \  mahatd  sabda-hetur  vai  pradhdnendvritah  svayam  \ 
saptdnddvarandny  dhus  tasydtmd  Kamaltisanah  \  koti-koty-ayutdny  atra 
clidnddni  hathitdni  tu  \  tatra  tatra  chafarvaktrdh  Brahmdno  Harayo 
JShavdh  |  srishtdh  pradhdnena  tadd  labdhvd  Sambhostu  sannidhim  ityddi  \ 

"And  these  principles,  fron?  Mahat  to  the  gross  elements  inclusive, 
generate  an  egg,  like  a  bubMe  of  water,  from  which  issued  the  Parent 
[of  the  universe],  who  was  the  same  as  divine  Eudra,  an&  Vishnu,  the 
omnipresent  lord.  <  Within  that  egg  were  these  worlds, — this  entire  uni- 
verse. The  egg  was  externally  'invested  with  a  tenfold  ether ;  in  like 
manner,  the  ether,  sprung  from  sound,  was  suirounded  by  'ahankara'; 


'  IN  THE  I^INGA  AND  BHAGAVATA  PURAXAS.  43 

the  cause  of  sound  (ahank6.ro)  by  l^ahat,  and  the  latter  itself  by  Pra- 
dhana.  These  men  call  the  seven  coverings  of  the  egg;  its  soul  is 
Kamalasana  (Brahma).  Here  ten  thousand  crores  of  crores  of  eggs 
are  declared  (to  exist),  in  which  four-faced  Brahmas,  Haris,  and  Bhavas 
(S'ivas)  were  created  by  Pradhana,  which  had  attained  to  proximity  with 
S'ambhu  (Siva)."  > 

The  Bhagavata  Purana  has  the  following  passage  on  the  same  subject 
in  the  third  Book,  in  answer  to  an  inquiry  how  the  Prajapatis  created 

the  world : 

j 

Bhag.  Pur.  iii.  20,  12  ff. — Maitreyah  uvdcha  \  Daivena  durvitarkyena 
parendnimishena  cha  \  jdtaks/tobhud  lhagavato  mahdn  asid  guna-traydt  \ 
13.  Rajah-pradhdndd  mahatas  trilingo  dtliva-choditdt  \  jdtah  sasarj/a 
bhutddir  viyadddini  panchasah  \  14.  Tdni  chaikaikasah  srashtum  asam- 
arthdni  lhautikam  I  sgmhatya  daiva-yogenai  haimam  andam  avasrijan  \ 
15.  So  'sayishtdbdhi-salile  anda-kosho  nirdtmakah  \  sdgram  vai  varsha- 
sdhasram  anvavdtsU  tarn  Isvarah  \  16.  Tasya  ndbher  abhut  padmaih 
sahasrdrkorudidhiti  \  sarvz-jlva-nikdyauko  yatra  svayam  abhut  Svardt  \ 
17.  So  'nuvishto  bhagavatd  yah  sete  salildsaye  \  loka-samsthdih  yathd- 
purvaih  nirmame  samsthayd  svat/d  \ 

" Maitreya  said:  . 

12.  "The  Great  principle  (Intelligence)  arose  from  the  three  qualities 
agitated  by  the  Divine  Being  in  consequence  of  an  inscrutable  destiny, 
supreme  and  ever  wakeful.  13.  Springing  from  the  Great  principle 
(in  which  the  quality  of  passion  prevailed,  and  which  was  impelled  by 
destiny),  the  source  of  the  elements  (bhutddi  or  ahankdra),  characterized 
by  the  three  qualities  (gunas],  created  the  ether  and  other  principles, 
in  groups  of  five.  ->14.  These  principles  being  severally  linable  to 
create,  deposited,  when  united  by  the  action  of  destiny,  a  golden  egg 
formed  of  the  elements.  1 5.  This  egg-shell  lay  lifeless  on  the  waters 
of  the  ocean:  the  Lord  dwelt  in  it  for  a  complete  [period  of  a] 
thousand  years.  16.  From  his  navel  sprang  a  lotus  splendid  as  a 
thousand  suns,  the  abode  of  all  living  things,  where  Svarat  (Brahma)  " 
himself  was  born.  \7.  He  penetrated^  by  the  Divine  Being  who 
reposes  on  the  receptacle  of  waters,  constructed  as  before,  the  substance 
(saihsthd]  of  the  worlds  with  his  own  substance."  > 

The  same  icfeas  are  repeated  in  a  lale?  chapter  of  the  same  book : 

Bhag.  Pur.  iii.  26,  50  ff. :  Many  asarhhatya  yadd  mahad-ddlni  sapta 


44     MUNDANE  EGG  ACCORDING  TO  THE  BHAGAVATA 

vat  |  kdla-karma-gunopeto  jagadadjr  updvisttt  \  51.  Tatas  tendnuvid- 
dhelhyo  [kshubhitebhyah,  Comm.]  yuktebhyo  'ndam  achetanam  \  utthitam 
Purusho  yasmdd  udatishthad  asau  Virdt  \  52.  Etad  andam  viseshdkhyam 
Icrama-vriddhair  dasottaraih  \  toyddibhih  parivritam  pradhdnendvritair 
vahih  |  yatra  loka-vitdno  'yam  rapam  bhagavato  Hareh  \  53.  Hiran- 
maydd  anda-Jcoshdd  itfthdya  salile-saydt  \  tarn  dvisya  mahddevo  bahudhd 
nirbibheda  Icham  [chhidram,  Comm.]  54.  Nirabhidyatasya  prathamam 
mukham  vunl  tato  'bhavad  ityudi  \ 

50.  "When  these  seven  principles,  Mahat  and  the  rest,  remained  un- 
combined,  the  [god  who  is  the]  source  of  the  universe  entered  into  them, 
united  with  time,  action,  and  the  qualities.  51.  Then  out  of  these 
principles  penetrated  by  himj  and  combined,  there  arose  a  lifeless  egg, 
from  which  sprang  Purusha,  viz.  that  Virat.  52.  This  egg,  named 
Visesha  (the  specific)  was?-  surrounded  by  wate,r,  and  other  elements 
gradually  increasing  in  extent  by  a  tenfold  progression,  which  in  their 
turn  were  externally  invested  by  Pradhana.  In  this  egg  [was  formed] 
this  expanse  of  worlds,  which  is  the  form  .-of  the  divine  Hari.  53. 
Having  arisen  out  of  the  envelopment  of  this  golden  egg  reposing 
upon  the  water,  the  great  god,  pervading  it,  opened  up  many  apertures. 
54.  First  his  mouth  was  divided,  from  which  speech  issued,"  etc. 

The  same  process  is  also  described  in  the  second  book  of  the  same 
Purana,  sect.  5,  32  ff. ;  but  it  is  unnecessary  to  adduce  more  than  a 
verse  or  two  of  the  passage. 

34.  Varsha-puga-sahasrante  tad  andam  udakesayam  \  kala-karma- 
svabhdva-stho  jivo  'jlvam  ajlvayat  \  35.  Sa  eva  purmhas  tasmdd  andafit 
nirlhidya  nirgatah  \  sahasrorv-anghri-ldhv-akshah sahasrdnana-sirshavdn\ 

34.  "At  the  end  of  many  thousand  years,  the-  Life  (Jiva)  residing 
in  time,  action,  and  nature,  gave  life  to  that  lifeless*  egg  reposing  on  the 
water.  35.  Splitting  the  egg,  Purusha  issued  forth  with  a  thousand 
thighs,  feet,  arms,  eyes,  faces,  and  heads. "f 

The  same  subject  is  yet  again  referred  to  in  another  text  of  the  same 

work. 

<  ( 

Bhag.  Pur.  ii.  10,  10  f. :  'Purusho  'ndam  vin/rbhidya  yadd  "dau  sa 
vinirgatah  I  dtmano  'yanam  anvichhann  apo  'srdkshwh  chhuchih  suchlh  \ 
tdsv  avdtslt  svasrislitasu  (sahasra-parivatsardn  [  tena  Ndrdyano  ndma 
yad  dpah  purushodbhavdh  \  "  r 

10.  "When,  splitting  the  egg,  Purusha  first  issued  from  it,  seeking 


•>     BRAHMA'S  PASSION  FOR  HIS  DAUGHTER.  45 

a  receptacle  for  himself,  he  created  the  pure  waters,  himself  pure. 
11.  In  these  waters  created  by  himself  he  dwelt  a  thousand  years. 
Hence  he  is  named  Narayana,  because  the  waters  were  produced  from 
Purusha." 


The  story  about  Brahma's  incestuous  passion  for  his  own  daughter, 
which  is  sometimes  alluded  to  in  the  Puranas,  is  thus  noticed  in  the 
S'atapatha  Brahmana,  1,  7,  4,1  if.82 — Prajapatir  ha  vai  svdm'  duhi- 
taram abhidadhyau  divaih  vd  >ushasam  vd  '  mithtiny  enayd  sydm '  iti  tarn 
sambabhuva\  2.  Tad  vai  devdnam  dgah  dsa  '  yah  ittham  svdm  duhitaram 
asmdkam  svasdram  karoti'  iti  \  3.  Te  Jia  devdh  uchur  lyo  'yam  devah 
pasundm  ishte  'tisandham  vai  tfyam  charati  yah  ittham  svdm  duhitaram 
asmdka'n  svasdram  karoti  vidhya  imam'  Hi  \  tarn  Rudro  'bhydyatya  vivyd- 
dha  tasya  sdmi  retah  prachaskanda  tathd  id  nunam  tad  dsa  \  4.  Tasmdd 
etad  rtshind  'bhyanuktam  'pita  yat  svdm  duhitaram  adhishkan  kshmayd 
retah  sanjagmdno  nishinchad'  iti  tad  dgni-mdrutam  ity  uktham  tasmims 
tad  vydkhytiyate  yathd  tad  devdh  retah  prdjanayan  \  teshdm  yadd  devdnam 
krodho  vyaid  atha  Prajdpatim  abhishaj'yams  tasya  tarn  salyam  nirakrin- 
tan  |  sa  vai  yajnah  eva  Prajdpatih  \ 

"Prajapati  cast  his  eyes  upon  his  own  daughter,  either  the  Sky,  or 
the  Dawn,  [desiring]  'May  I  pair  with  her.'  So  [saying]  he  had 
intercourse  with  her.  2.  This  was  a  crime  in  the  eyes  of  the  gods, 
who  said :  '  [He  is  guilty]  who  acts  thus  to  his  own  daughter,  our 
sister.'  3.  The  gods  said :  '  This  god  who  rules  over  the  beasts,  com- 
mits a  transgression  in  that  he  acts  thus  to  his  own  daughter,  our  sister : 
pierce  him  through.'  Puidra  aimed  at,  and  pierced,  him.  H^ilf  of  his 
seed  fell  to  the  ground.  So  it  happened.  4.  Accordingly  this  has 
been  said  by  the  rishi  (R.  Y.  x.  61,  7),  '  when  the  father*embracing 
his  daughter,  unrffng  with  her,  discharged  his  seed  on  the  earth,'  etc. 
This  is  a  hymn  addressed  to  Agni  and  the  Maruts ;  and  it  is  there 
related  in  what  manner  the  gods  generated  this  seed.  "When  the  angeri 
of  the  gods  had  passed  away,  they  applied  remedies  to  Prajapati,  and 
cut  out  of  him  the  arrow.  PrajApati  is  sacrifice." 

The  following  is  the"  context  of  the  passage  of  the  Rig-veda  referred 

,T  } 

82  See  the  passages  from  the  Aitareya  Brahmana  andR  the  Matsya  Purana  on  the 
same  subject,  with  the  remarks  subjoined,  in  the  first  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  107  ff. 


46  QUOTATION  FROM  THE  EIGVEDA,  x.  61.       „ 

i 

to  in  the  preceding  legend,  which  refers  apparently  to  some  atmospheric 
phenomenon.  It  is  hard  to  say  what  gods  or  powers  of  nature  are 
denoted  by  the  father  and  the  daughter  respectively,83  and  the  passage 
is  obscure  and  difficult  to  translate,  even  with  the  aid  of  Sayana's 
comment,  for  a  copy  of  which  I  am  indebted  £o  Professor  Miiller.  The 
4th  verse  is  addressed  to  the  Asvins.  The  commentator  regards 
verses  5-7  as  intended  to  show  how  "  Rudra  Prajapati  created  Rudra 
Vastoshpati  with  a  portion  of  himself:"  (Yathd  svdmsena  bhagavdn 
RudraTi  prajdpatir  Vdstoshpatim  Rudram  asrijat  tad  etad-ddibhir  tisri- 
bhir  vadati.}  « 

R.  V.  x.  61,  4 :  Krishna  yad  goshu  arunishu  sidad  divo  napdtd  Asvind 
huve  vum  \  vltam  me  yajnam  dgatam  me  annam  vavanvdmsd  na  isham 
asmrita-dhru  \  5.  Prathishta  yasya  vlrakarmam  isJinad  anushthitam  nu 
naryyo  apauhat  \  punas  tad  nvnhati  yat  kandydh  duhitur  ah  anubhritam 
anarvd  \  6.  Madhyd  yat  kartvam  abhavad  abhilte  kdmam  krinvdne  pitari 
yuvatydm  \  mandnag  reto  jahatur  viyantd  sdnau  nishiktam  suJcritasya 
yonau^  \  7.  Pita  yat  svdm  duhitaram  adhishkan(kshmayd  retah  sanjagmdno 
nishinchat  \  svddhyo  ajanayan  brahma  devdh  vdstoshpatim  vratapdm  nira- 
taJcsJian  \ 

"  When  the  dark  female  (night)  stands  among  the  tawny  cows  (rays 
of  the  dawn  ?),  I  invoke  you  twain,  Asvins,  sons  of  the  Sky.85  Come 
eagerly  to  my  sacrifice,  come  to  my  oblation,  as  desiring  sustenance,  ye 
who  do  not  disappoint  my  longings.86  5.  That  male,  whose  prolific 
virile  (organ)  was  extended,  now  withdrew  it,  after  it  had  been  sent 
forth.  Again  the  irresistible  [god]  draws  forth  that  which  had  been 

83  In  S'atapntha  Bralimana  vi.  1,  2,  1  ff.,  it  is  related  that  Prajapati,  being  desirous 
of  creating,  connected  himself  with  various  spouses,  or  associates,  for  this  purpose, 
first, — in  the^form  of,  or  by  means  of,  Agni,— with  the  Eauth  (So  'gnina  prithivim 
mithunaih  samabhavaf) :  from  which  union  sprang  an  egg,  and  thence  Vayu ;  next, 
through  Vsiyu  he  united  himself  with  the  Air  (antariksha,  neu^r),  and  again  an  egg 
was  produced,  and  thence  Aditya  (the  Sun) ;  thirdly,  through  Aditya  he  connected 
himself  with  Dyaus  (the  Sky) ;  fourthly,  fifthly  sixthly,  and  seventhly,  through  his 

,  mind  (manas)  with  Vach  ;  the  result  of  which,  in  each  of  the  last  four  cases,  was  his 
own  pregnancy  (garbhl  abhavaf),  t  , 

84  The  same  phrase  occurs  in  E.*V.  iii.  29,  8.  <• 

85  See  the  fifth  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  234  and  239. 

86  Such  is  the  meaning  given  by  Professor  Roth  to  asmrita-dhru  from  a-}-smrita-\- 
-\-dhru,  "not  suffering  what  I  have  der Ired  to  fall."    See  s.v.  2,  dhru.    Sayana  renders 
it,  asmrita-drohau  mayi  droham  asmdrantau  \    "  forgetting  injury— ^forgetting  injury 
to  me." 


BRAHMA'S  PASSION  FOR  VACH.  47 

^ 

introduced  [into  the  womb' of]  his  youthful  daughter.  6.  [They  then 
did]  in  the  midst  that  which  was  to  be  done  at  their  contact,  when  the 
father  loved  the  youthful  damsel, — separating  from  each  other,  they 
discharged  a  little  seed  which  was  shed  on  the  surface,  on  the  place 
of  holy  ceremonies.  7.  When  the  father,  bent  on  impregnating  his 
own  daughter,  united  with  her,  discharged  his  s^ed  on  the  earth,  the 
benevolent  gods  generated  prayer,  they  fashioned  Vastoshpati,  the  pro- 
tector of  sacred  rites." 

The  same  story  is  repeated  in  the  later  literature,  as  in  the  Bhagavata 
Purana  iii.  12,  28  if.,  only  that  Vach  is  the  daughter  of  Brahma  who  is 
there  spoken  of :  Vdcham  duhitaram  tanvlfh  Svayambhur  haratim  manah  \ 
akdmdm  chakame  kshattah  sakdmah  iti  Itah  srutam  \  29.  Tarn  adharme 
krita-matim  vilokya  pitaram  suldh  \  Marlchi-mukhydh  munayo  visram- 
bhdt  pratyabodhayan  \  30.  Naitat  purvdih  kritam  tvad  ye  na  karishyanti 
chdpare  \  yas  tvam  duhitaram  g neither  anigrihydngajam  prabhuh  \  31. 
Tejiyasdm  api  hy  etad  na  su&lokyam  jagadguro  \  yad  vrittam  anutishthan 
rai  lokah  kshemdya  kalpate^  \  32.  Tasmai  namo  bhagavate  ya  idafh  svena 
rochishd  dtmastham  vyanjayamdsa  sa  dharmam  pdtum  arhati  \  33.  Sa 
itthaih  grinatah  putrdn  puro  drishtvd  prajdpatln  \  prajdpati-patis  tan- 
vam  tatydja  vrlditas  tadd  \  tdm  diso  jagrihur  ghordm  nlhdram  yad  vidus 
tamah  \ 

"  We  have  heard,  0  Kshatriya,  that  Svayambhu  (Brahma)  had  a 
passion  for  Vach,  his  slender  and  enchanting  daughter,  who  had  no 
passion  for  him.  The  Munis,  his  sons,  headed  by  Marlchi,  seeing  their 
father  bent  upon  wickedness,  admonished  him  with  affection :  '  This 
is  such  a  thing  as  has  never  been  done  by  those  before  you,  nor  will 
those  after  you  do  it, — that  you,  being  the  lord,  should  sesually  ap- 
proach your  daughter,  not  restraining  your  passion.  This,  0  preceptor 
of  the  world,  is  not  a  laudable  deed  even  in  glorious  personages, 
through  imitation  of  whose  actions  men  attain  felicity.  Glory  to  that 
divine  being  (Vishnu)  who  by  his  own  lustre  revealed  this  [universe] 
which  abides  in  himself, — he  must  maintain  righteousness.'  Seeing 
his  sons,  the' Prajapatis,  thus  speaking  , .before  him,  the  lord  of  the 
Prajapatis  (^Brahma)  was  ashaiAed,  and  abandoned  his  body.  This 
dreadful  body  the  regions  received,  and  it  is  known, as  foggy  darkness." 

This  legend^  Brahma  and  his  daughter,  though,  as  appears  from  the 
passage  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  it  has  occasioned  scandal  among 


48  LICENTIOUS  ACTS  OF  THE  AS'VINS,  INDRA, 

the  Indian  writers  from  an  early  period,  Js  not  to  be  regarded  in 
the  same  light  as  many  other  stories  regarding  the  licentious  actions 
of  some  of  the  other  gods.  The  production  of  a  female  and  her  con- 
junction with  the  male  out  of  whom  she  was  formed,  is  regarded  in 
Manu  i.  32,  as  one  of  the  necessary  stages  j.n  the  cosmogonic  process 
(and  finds  its  near  parallel  in  the  book  of  Genesis) :  dixdhd  kritva 
"tmano  deham  arddhena  purusho  'lhavat  \  arddhena  nan  tasydm  sa 
Virajam  asrijat  pralhuh  \  "  Dividing  his  own  body  into  two,  [Brahma] 
became  with  the  half  a  man,  and  with  the  half  a  woman;  and  in 
her  he  created  (i.e.  according  to  the  c6mmentator,  begot)87  Viraj." 
Compare  also  the  passage  from  the  Vishnu  Purana  i.  7,  12  ff.  quoted 
in  the  first  volume  of  this, work,  p.  65,  and  the  passage  from  the 
S'atap.  Brahmana  cited  in  the  same  vol.,  p.  25  f.8S  On  the  injustice 
of  ascribing  an  immoral  character  to  the  Hindu  writings,  or  to  the 
deities  whom  they  describe,  on  the  ground  of  such  legends  as  the  one 
before  us,  or  of  the  dialogue  between  Yama  and  Yarn!  in  the  10th 
hymn  of  the  tenth  Mandala  of  the  Rig-veda,  see  some  instructive 
remarks  by  Prof.  Roth  in  the  third  vol.  of  the  Journal  of  the  American 
Oriental  Society,  pp.  332-337. 

The  case  is  different,  however,  with  another  class  of  stories,  which 
are  frequently  to  be  met  with  in  the  Itihasas  and  Puranas,  in  which 
various  adulterous  amours,  of  the  Asvins,  Indra,  Varuna,  and  Krishna, 
are  described. — See  the  passages  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  iv. 
1,  5,  1  ff. ;  the  Mahabharata,  Yanaparva,  v.  10,  316  ff.,  quoted  or 
abstracted  in  the  fifth  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  250  ff.,  and  in  Indische 
Studien,  i.  198;  the  Ramayanai.  48,  16  ff.  (Schlegel's  and  Bombay  ed., 
Gorresio's  ed.  i.  49) ;  and  the  passages  quoted  from  the  Mbh.  in  the 
first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  310,  466  (with  not^e),  and  467.  In  all 

these  cases  a  licentious  character  is  evidently  attributed  to  the  gods.89 

« 

87  Haithuna-dharmena  Virat-sanjnam  purmhani  nirmitavan  \ 

88  "  The  Matsya  P.  has  a  little  allegory  of  ,its  own  on  the  subject  of  Brahma's 
.  intercourse  with  S'atarupa ;  for  it  explains  the  former  to  mean  the  Vedas,  and  the 

latter  the  SiivitrT,  or  holy  prayer,  which  is  their  chief  text  f  and  in  their  cohabitation 
there  is  therefore  no  evil:  Yeda-ra^ih  smrito  Brahma.  SqvitrT  tad-adhisJithita  \  tas- 
man  na  kaschid  doshoh  syat  Savitrl-gamane  rl;ibhoh  \  " — Wilson's  Vishnu  Pur.,  2nd 
ed.,  vol.  i.,  p.  108,  note.  See  the  first  vol.  of  this  work;  jk.  112. 

89  Kumurila  Bhatta/howew?,  atter.'.pts  to  explain  allegorically  not  only  the  dal- 
liance of  Brahma,   with   his   own  daughter,  but  also  the  adultery  of  Indra  with 
Ahalya. — See  the  passage  quoted  from  him  and  translated  in  Miiller's  Anc.  Sansk. 


BUA/?AVATA'S  APOLOGY  ?OR  KRISHNA'S  ADULTERY.          49 

In  the  case  of  Krishna  the,  following  is  the  reasoning  by  which  the 
author  of  the  Bhagavata  Parana  attempts  to  quiet  the  scruples  of 
some  of  the  purer-minded  among  the  devotees  of  the  pastoral  deity, 
and  to  vindicate  his  morality,  by  seeking  to  impart  a  mystic  character 
to  those  loose  adventures  which  had  been  the  occasion  of  scandal  to 
them,  though,  no  doubt,  well  suited  to  the  taste  of  his  coarser  wor- 
shippers. 

Bhag.  Pur.,  x.  33,  27  ff. — Raja  uvdcha  \  samsthdpandya  dharmasya 
prasamdyetarasya  cha  \  avatlrno  hi  bhavagdn  amsena  jagadlsvarah  \  28. 
Sa  katham  dharma-setundm  vdktd  kartd  'bhiraksJiitd  \  pratlpam  dcharad 
brahman  paraddrdbhimarsanam  \  29.  Aptakamo  Yadu-patih  kritavdn 
vai  jugnpsitam  \  kim-abhiprdyah  etam  naht  samsayam  chhindhi  suvrata  \ 
S'rl-8'ukah  uvdcha  \  30.  DJiarma-vyatikramo  drishtah  isvardndncha 
sdhasam  \  tejiyasdm  na  doshdya  vahneh  varvablmjo  yathd  \  31.  Naitat 
samdcharej  jdtu  manasd  'pi  hy  ariisvarah  \  vinasyaty  dcharan  maudhydd 
yathd  'rudro  'bdhtj'am  visham  \  32.  Isvardndm  vachah  satyam  tathaivd- 
charitam  kvachit  \  teshdm  yat  sva-vacho  yuktam  buddhimdms  tat  samd- 
chnret  \  33.  Kusaldcharitenaishdm  iha  svdrtho  na  vidyate  \  viparyayena 
vd  'nartho  nirahankdrindm  pralho  \  34.  Kimuttikhila-sattvdndffi  tiryan- 
martya-divaukasdm  \  Isitus  chesitdvydndm  kusaldkusaldnvayah  \  35.  Yat 
pdda-pankaja-pardga-nisheva-triptdh  yoga-prabhdva-vidhutdkhila-karma- 
bandhdh  \  svairam  charanti  munayo'pina  nahyamdnds  tasyechhayd  "tta- 
vapushah  kutah  eva  bandhah  \  36.  Goplndm  tat-patlndncha  sarveshdm  era 
dehindm  \  yo  'ntas  charati  so  'dhyakshah  kndaneneha  deha-bhdk  \  37. 
Anugrahdya  bhutdndm  mdmisham  deham  dsritah  \  bhajate  tddrislh 
krlddh  ydh  srutvd  tat-paro  bhavet  \  38.  Ndsuyan  khahi  Krishndya 

mohitds  tasya  mdyayd  \  manyamdndh  sva-parsvasthdn  svdn  svdn  ddrdn 

« 
Vrajaukasah  \    39.  Brahma-rdtre  updvritte   Vdsudevdnumoditdh  \    ani- 

chhantyo  yayur  gopyah  sva-grihdn  bhagavat-priydh 90  j 


Lit.,  pp.  529  f.  In  the  Ramayana  i.  49  Indra  tells  the  gods  that  his  adulterous  act 
had  tended  to  their  benefit,  by  exciting  the  wrath  of  Gautama  and  so  neutralizing  the 
fruit  of  those  austerities  of  the  saint  wh^h  .threatened  danger  to  the  celestial?.' 
On  this  the  commentator  in  the  Bombay  ed.  remarks :  Dharma-dhurandharasyapi 
S'akrasya  adhyrme  pravrittau  vfjam  tfarsayitum  aha  \  "  What  follows  is  said  to 
show  what  was  the  ground  of  Indra's  practising  unrighteousness,  though  he  is  the 
supporter  of  righteousness."  .> 

90  This  passage  is  partly  quoted  in  my  Mata-parucsha,  published  in  Calcutta  in 
1852,  p.  87 ;  and  in  Prof.  Banerjea's  Dialogues,  p.  383  ft 


50         BHAGAVATA'S  APOLOGY  FOR  KRISHNA'S  ADULTERY, 

"  The  king  said :  27.  The  divine  lord  of  the  world  became  partially 91 
incarnate  for  the  establishment  of  virtue,  and  the  repression  of  its 
opposite.     28.  How  did  he,  the  expounder,  author,  and  guardian  of  the 
bulwarks  of  righteousness,  practise  its  contrary,  the  corruption  of  other 
men's   wives?     29.  With  what  object   did   the  lord  of  the  Yadus 
(Krishna)  perpetrate  what  was  blameable?     Resolve,   devout  saint, 
this  our  doubt.     S'uka  said :  30.  The  transgression  of  virtue,  and  the 
daring  acts  which  are   witnessed   in  superior  beings,  must  not   be 
charged  as  faults  to  those  glorious  persons,  as  no  blame  is  imputed  to 
fire,  which  consumes  fuel  of  every  description.     31.  Let  no  one  other 
than  a  superior  being  ever  even  in  thought  practise  the  same :  any 
one  who,  through  folly,  doe.s  so,  perishes,  like  any  one  not  a  Rudra 
[drinking]  the  poison  produced  from 'the  ocean.92     32.  The  word  of 
superior  beings  is  true,  and^  so'&lso  their  conduct  is  sometimes  [correct] : 
let  a  wise  man  observe  their  command,  which  is  right.     33.  These 
beings,  0  king,  who  are  beyond  the  reach  of  personal  feelings,  have  no 
interest  in  good  deeds  done  in  this  world,  nor  do  they  incur  any  detri- 
ment from  the  contrary.     34.  How  much  less  can  there  be  any  relation 
of  good  'or  evil  between  the  lord  of  all  beings,  brute,  mortal,  and  divine, 
and  the  creatures  over  whom  he  rules  ?  (i.e.  since  he  is  entirely  beyond 
the  sphere  of  virtue  and  vice,  how  can  any  of  his  actions  partake  of  the 
nature  of  either?)     35.  Since  Munis,  who  are  satisfied  by  worshipping 
the  pollen  from  the  lotus  of  his  feet,  and  by  the  force  of  abstraction 
have  shaken  off  all  the  fetters  of  works, — since  even  they  are  un- 
controlled,  and  act  as  they  please,  how  can  there  be  any  restraint 
upon  him  (the  Supreme  Deity)  when  he  has  voluntarily  assumed  a 
body?     36.  He  who  moves  within  the  gopls  (milkmen's  wives)  and 
their  husbands,  and  all  embodied  beings,  is  their  ruler,  who  only  in 
sport  assumed  a  body  upon  earth.     37.  Taking  a  human  form  out  of 
benevolence  to  creatures,  he  engages  in  shorts  such  as  that  those  \vho 
hear  of  them  may  become  devoted  to  himself.     38.  The  [male]  in- 
habitants of  Yraja  harboured  nq,  ill-will  to  Krishna,   since,   deluded 

91  Comp.  Mbh.  i.  2785.     Yas  tu  Narayano  nama  deva-aevah  sanacanah  \  tasyamso 
manusheshv  asid   Vasiidevah  pratapavan  \    ^See  furthef  passages  to.  be  quoted  in 
chapter  ii.,  sect,  v.,  below. 

92  This  refers  to  the  poison  drun^  by  S'iva  at  the  churning  of  the  ocean.     See 
Ramayana  i.  45,  26,  ed.  Schlegel,  and.  Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  npte  p.  78  (1st  ed.). 
The  passage  of  the  Ramay&na  will  be  quoted  further  in  chap,  iii.,  sec.  vi. 


,      AND*  S'RlDHAfU'S  EXPLANATION  OF  THE  PASSAGE.  51 

by  his  illusion,  they  each  imagined  ttat  his  own  wife  was  by  his  side. 
39.  When  Brahma's  night  had  arrived,  the  g^is,  beloved  and  glad- 
dened by  Krishna,  departed  unwillingly  to  their  own  homes." 

This  passage  is  followed  (v.  40)  by  an  assurance  on  the  part  of  the 
author  of  the  Purana,  that  the  person  who  listens  with  faith  to  the 
narrative  of  'Krishna's  sports  with  the  cowherds'*  wives,  and  who  re- 
peats it  to  others,  shall  attain  to  strong  devotion  to  that  deity,  and  shall 
speedily  be  freed  from  love,  that  disease  of  the  heart  (vikrlditam  Vraja- 
vadhubhir  idam  cha  Vishnoh  Sraddhdnvito  'nusrinuydd  atha  varnayed  yah  \ 
bhaktim  pardm  bhagavati  pratilabhya  kdmam  hrid-rogam  dsv  apahinoty 
achirena  dhlrah}.  A  remarkable  instance  of  homoeopathic  cure,  certainly ! 

I  quote  the  remarks  of  the  conimentatfor;  S'ndhara  Svamin,  on  verses 
30  ff.  of  this  passage :  30.  Paramesvare  kaimittika-nydyena  parihartum 
sdmdnyato  mahatdih  vrittam  aha  '  dharmatyatikramah '  iti  \  '  sdha- 
sancha  drishtam'  Prajdpatlndra-Soma-Visvdmitrddlndm  \  tachcha  teshdm 
tejasvindih  doshdya  na  bhavatlti  \  31.  Tarhi  ' yad  yad  dcharati  sreshthah' 
itinydyena  anyo  'pikuryddiity  dsankya  aha  'vaitad'  iti\  'amsvaro'  dehtidi- 
para-tantro  yathd  Rudra-vyatirikto  visham  dcharan  bhakshayan  \  32.  l£a- 
thafh  tarhi  saddchdrasya  prdmdnyam  atah  aha  '  Isvardndm '  iti  \  teshdm 
vachah  satyam  atas  tad-uktant  dchared  eva  \  dcharitam  kvachit  satyam 
atah  '  sva-vacho  yuktam '  teshdm  vachasd  yad  uktam  aviruddham  tat  tad 
eva  dcharet  \  33.  Nanu  tarhi  te  'pi  kim  evam  sdhasam  dcharanti  tatra  aha 
1  kmale '  ti  \  prdrabdha-karma-kshapana-mdtram  eva  teshdm  krityam  na 
any  ad  ity  arthah  \  34.  Prastutam  aha  'kimuta'  iti\  ' kusaldkuialdnvayo' 
na  vidyate  iti  kim  punar  vaktavyam  ity  arthah  \  35.  Etad  eva  sphuti- 
karoti  \  yasya  pdda-pankaja-pardgasya  nishevanena  triptdh  yadvd  yasya 
pdda-pankaja-pardge  yishevd  yeshdm  te  tathd  te  cha  te  triptfdscha  iti 
bhaktdh  ity  arthah  (,  tathd  jndninas  cha  na  nahyamdndh  bandhanam 
aprdpnuvantah  \  para-ddratvam  goplndm  anglkritya  parihritam  \  36. 
Iddrilm  bhagavatah  sarvdntaw/dminah  para-ddra-sevd  ndma  na  kdchid 
ity  aha  'gopindm'  iti  \  'yo  'ntq$  charaty  adhyaksho'  buddhy-ddi-sdkshi 
sa  eva  krldanena  dehabhdk  na  tv  asmad-ddi-tulyo  yena  doshah  sydd  iti  \ 
37.  Nanv  evaJti  ched  dptakdmasya  ninditq  kutah  pravrittir  ity  aha 
1  anugrahdya  *>  iti  \  sringdra-ratfikrishta-chetaso  'ti-bahir-mukhdn  api 
sva-pardn  kartum  iti  bhhvah  \  38.  Nanv  anye  'pi  Jbhinndchdrdh  sva- 
cheshtitam  evan\  eva  iti  vadanti  tatroha  '  nasuyann '  iti  \  evambhu~ 
taisvarydbhdve  tathd  kurvantah  pdpdh  jneydh  iti  bhdvah  \ 


52  S'RIDHARA'S  COMMENT  ON  THE  BHAGAVAT^. 

"In  order  to  refute  [the  change  of  immorality]  in  regard  to  the 
Supreme  Deity,  by  iti^d  fortiori  argument,  the  author  states  generally 
the  conduct  of  great  persons  in  the  words  'the  transgression,'  etc.  The 
'daring  acts  witnessed'  ate  those  of  Prajapati,  Indra,  Soma,  Visva- 
mitra,  and  others;  and  these  are  not  to  be  charged  to  them  as  faults. 
31.  Having  intimated  the  doubt  that  according  to  the  reasoning 
'whatever  an  eminent  person  does,' 93  etc.,  etc.,  there  is  a  danger  that 
another  person  may  do  the  like, — he  says,  '  Let  no  one  do  the  same,' 
etc.;  'no  one  other  .than  a  superior  being,'  i.e.  no  one  who  is  in 
subjection  to  a  body,  etc. ;  '  as  any  one  separate  from  Rudra  using/ 
swallowing,  'poison.'  32.  Whence,  then,  is  the  authority  for  pure 
conduct?  He  tells  us  in  the  Vords,  (of  superior  beings,'  etc.  Their 
word  is  true;  therefore  let  their  declarations  be  followed.  Their 

t) 

conduct  is  [only]  sometinus  true  [correct]:  therefore,  let  'their  correct 
words,'  viz.,  that,  not  being  contrary  [to  right],  which  is  declared 
by  their  word,  be  followed.  33.  In  answer  to  the  question  why  these 
superior  beings  also  thus  practise  'daring  acts,'  he  states,  in  the  words 
'good  deeds,'  etc.,  that  they  have  no  other  concern  whatever  than 
merely  to  nullify  [the  consequences  of]  their  commenced  works  [so 
as  to  prevent  these  works  from  interfering  with  their  final  liberation]. 
34.  He  arrives  at  his  main  subject  in  the  words  'how  much  less,'  etc. : 
i.e.  [in  the  case  of  the  supreme  Vishnu]  there  is  no  such  relation 
of  good  or  evil:  "What  more  is  to  be  said?  35.  He  makes  this  clear. 
[The  first  words  here  mean  either]  'they  who  are  satisfied  by  wor- 
shipping the  pollen  of  the  lotus  of  his  feet ' ;  or  '  they  who  are  wor- 
shippers of  the  pollen  of  the  lotus  of  his  feet,  and  are  also  satisfied,  i.e. 
devotees' ';  further,  who  are  wise  men,  not  bound, — finding  no  restraint. 
The  objection  that  the  gopis  were  other  men's  wives  is  [here]  admitted, 
and  obviated.  36.  Now  he  [further]  asserts,  in  the  words  'the  gopis,' 
that  in  the  case  of  the  divine,  all-perva£ing,  Being  there  is  no  such 
thing  as  an  attachment  to  other  men's  wives  [since  he  pervades,  and 
is  one  with,  everything].  It, is  'he  who  moves  within,  the  ruler,'  the 
witness  of  the  understanding,  etc.,  who  in  sport  takes  a  body;  but  he 
does  not  resemble  such  persons  as  ourselves,  so  that  he  should  be  in 

fault.     37.  The  author  now,  in  the  words  'out  of  benevolence,'  answers 

<         ( 

( 
93  This  text,  from  the  Ehagavad  Gita,  will  be.  quoted  below. 


SPPERIORjMORALITY  OF  THE  BHAGAVAD  GITA.  53 

the  question  why,  if  the  c,ase  be  so,  the  Being  who  has  no  want  un- 
satisfied should  engage  in  acts  which  have  been  censured :  the  purport- 
is,  that  he  seeks  to  inc'line  to  himself  even  such  persons  as  are  attracted 
by  sensual  love,  and  greatly  devoted  to  external  things.94  38.  But  do 
not  others  of  a  very  different  mode  of  life  represent  their  own  conduct 
as  of  this  -<zery  description  ?  In  reference  to  this  he  says  '  they  har- 
boured no  ill- will,'  etc.  The  drift  is,  that  those  who  without  such 
divine  character  act  in  the  same  way  are  to  be  considered  sinners." 

The  following  is  the  passage  referred  to  by  the  commentator  an  his 
annotation  on  verse  31.  It  will  be  seen  that  ft  inculcates  a  doctrine 
diametrically  opposed  to  that  urged  in  the  earlier  part,  at  least,  of  the 
argument  by  which  the  author  of  the  Bhagavata  endeavours  to  justify 
the  adulteries  of  Krishna,  and  perfectly  coincident  with  the  tenor 
of  the  condemnation  which  the  same  aithor  (who  is  inconsistent  with 
himself)  had,  in  an  earlier  part  of  his  work,  pronounced  on  Brahma 
by  the  mouth  of  his  sons  (above,  p.  47) : 

Bhagavad  Gita,  iii.  20  ff. — Earmanaiva  hi  samsiddham  asthitdh  Jana- 
»  i 

kddayah  \  loka-sangraham  evdpi  sampasyan  Jcartum  arhasi  \  21.  Yad 
yad  dcharati  sreshthas  tat  tad  evetaro  janah  \  sa  yat  pramandfh  kurute 
lokas  tad  anuvartate  \  22.  Na  me  Pdrthdsti  kartavyam  trishu  lokeshu 
kinchana  \  ndnavdptam  avdptavyam  varte  eva  cha  karmani  \  23>  Yadi 
hy  aham  na  varteyam  j'dtu  karmany  atandritah  \  mama  vartmdnw- 
vartante  manushydh  Pdrtha  sarvasah  \  24.  TTtsldeyur  ime  lokdh  na 
kurydm  karma  ched  aham  \  sankarasya  cha  kartd  sydm  upahany&m  imdh 
prajdh  |  25.  Saktdh  karmany  avidvdmso  yathd  kurvanti  £hdrata  \\ 
kurydd  vidvdms  tathd  'saktas  chiklrshur  loka-sangraham  \  26.  Na 
luddhi-lhedam  janayed  ajnundm  karma-sanginam  \  joshayet  ^sarva-kar- 
mdni  vidvdn  yuktahsamacharan  \ 

"  20.  For  it  was  by  works  that  Janaka  and  other  sages  attained  per- 
fection. You  also  ought'to,  act,  seeking  the  edification  of  mankind." 

21.  Whatever  a  person  of  eminence  practises,  that  the  rest  of  men 
also  [do].     Whatever  authoritative  example  he  sets,  the  people  follow. 

22.  There  is"nothin<*  in  the  three  worlds,  son  of  Pritha,  which  I  have 

3  > 

">  > 

94  I  find  this  sense  of  the,  word  bahirmukha  in  Molesworth's  Maraftu  Dictionary. 

93  Compare  Eaghuvams'a  iii.  46 pathah  sucJier  dafsayitarah  Isvarah  matt- 

masa/n  adadate  qa  paddhatim  \  "  Our  lords*  who  point  out  to  us  the  pure  way,  do 
not  [themselves]  pursue  an  unclean  path."  » 


54  STORIES  FROM  S'ATAPATHA  BRAJtMANA     «. 

to  do,  nor  anything  unattained  which  I  have  to  attain ;  and  yet  I 
continue  in  action.  23.  If  I  were  not  to  continue  diligently  engaged 
in  works,  0  son  of  Pritha,  men  would  follow  my  course  in  every 
respect.  24.  These  people  would  be  ruined  if  I  did  not  practise 
works ;  and  I  should  occasion  a  confusion  of  castes :  I  should  destroy 
these  creatures.  25.  In  the  same  way  as  the  ignorant,  who  are 
attached  to  works,  perform  them,  so  let  the  wise  man  perform  them, 
without  attachment,  seeking  the  edification  of  mankind.  26.  Let  not 
the  wise  man  create  a  distraction  of  mind  among  ignorant  persons  who 
are  attached  to  works':  let  him  fulfil  &11  ceremonies  with  alacrity, 
while  he  practises  them  with  abstracted  mind." 


I  quote  here  some  other  interesting  stories  which  I  have  observed 
in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  regarding  Prajapati,  the  creation  of  the 
gods,  and  the  manner  in  which  they  acquired  immortality,  and  became 
superior  to  the  Asuras,  or  to  other  deities.  (Compare  the  fifth  volume 
of  this  work,  pp.  12-16.)  The  first  extracts  tell  how  Prajapati  himself 
became  immortal,  and  what  difficulties  he  encountered  in  the  work  of 
creation. 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  x.  1,  3,  1  (p.  761  ff.) — Prajdpatih  prajdh  asri- 
jata  |  sa  urddhvebhyah  eva  prdnebhyo  devdn 96  asrijata  ye  'vdnchah  prdnds 
tebhyo  martydh  prajdh  \  atka  urdhvam  eva  mrityum  prajdlhyo  'ttdram 
asrijata  \  2.  Tasya  ha  Prajdpater  ardham  era  martyam  dsid  ardham 
amritam  \  tad  yad  asya  martyam  dslt  tena  mrityor  abibhet  \  sa  vibhyad 
imam  prdvisad  dvayam  bhutvd  mrichcha  dpascha  \  3.  Sa  mrityur  devdn 
abravit  ( kva  nu  so  'bhud  yo  no  'srishta1  iti  \  l  tvad  bibhyad  imam  prd- 
vikshad'  iti  \  so  'bravid  ltam  vai  anvichhdma  tarn  sambhardma  na  vai  aliaiii 
tarn  himsishydmi1  iti  \  tarn  devdh  asydh  adhi  samabharan  \  yad  asya  apsv 
dslt  tdh  apah  samabharann  atha  yad  asydm  tarn  mridam  \  tad  ubhayafit 
sambhritya  mridancha  apascha  ishtakdm  akurvams  tasmdd  etad  ulhayam 

c 

1  '6  The  gods  are  sometimes  mentioned  in  the  Rig-veda  £see  i.  34,  11 ;  i.  4-5,  2)  as 
being  thirty-three  in  number.  Here  is  an  enumeration  of  them  in  the  S'atapatha 
Brahmana,  iv.  5,  7,  2 :  Ashtau  Vasavah  ekad^sa  Rudrah  dvadasa  Atityah  ime  eva 
dyava-prithivl  trayastrimsyau  \  trayastrimsad  vai  devah  Prajcipatis  chatmtrimsah  \ 
"  There  are  eight  Vasur,  eleven  Rudras,  twelve  Adityas,  and  these  two,  heaven  and 
earth  are  the  [thirty-second  and]  thirty-third.  There  are  thirty-  three  gods,  and 
Frajapati  is  the  thirty-fourth." 


TELLING  1JOW  PEAJAPATI  BECAME  IMMORTAL.  55 

ishtaJcd  lhavati  mrichcha  vpascha  \  <J.  Tad  etdh  vai  asya  tdh  pancha 
martyds  tanvah  ffsan  loma  tvan  mdmsam  asthi  majjd  atha  etdh  amritdh 

mano  vdlc  prdnai  cha/cshuh  srotram  \  6.  Te  devdh  abruvann 

'amritam  imam  karavdma'  iti  \  tasya  etdbhydm  amritdbhyam  tanubhydm 
etam  martydm  tanum  parigrihya  amritam  akurvann  ityddi  ....  |  7. 
iato  vai  Prajdpatir  amrito  'bhavat  ...  |  ... 

x.  1,  4,  1. —  Ubhayam  ha  etad  agre  Prajdpatir  dsa  martyam  chaiva 
amritancha  \  tasya  prdndh  eva  amritdh  dsuh  Sariram  martyam  \  sa  etena 
karmand  etayd  dvritd  ekadhd  'jaram  amritam  dtmdnam  akuruta  \  • 

"  Prajapati  produced  creatllres.  Prom  his  upper  breaths  he  formed 
the  godt,  and  from  his  lower  breaths  mortal  creatures.  After  the  crea- 
tures he  created  Death  the  devourer.  "2,  Of  this  Prajapati,  half  was 
mortal,  and  half  immortal.  With  that  part  of  him  which  was  mortal, 
he  was  afraid  of  Death.97  Fearing,  he  Altered  this  [earth],  having  be- 
come two  things,  earth  and  water.  3.  Death  said  to  the  gods,  '  what 
has  become  of  him  who  created  us  ?  '  [They  answered],  '  fearing  you, 
he  has  entered  this  earth^.'  Death  said,  '  let  us  search  for,  and  collect 
him.  I  will  not  kill  him.'  The  gods  then  collected  him  on  this  [earth]. 
The  part  of  him  which  was  in  the  waters,  they  collected  thosfe  waters, 
and  the  part  which  was  in  this  [earth],  they  [collected]  that  earth. 
Having  collected  both  of  these,  the  earth  and  the  waters,  they  made  a 
brick.  Hence  these  two  things  make  a  brick,  viz.  earth  and  water. 
4.  Then  these  five  parts  of  him  were  mortal,  hair,  skin,  flesh,  bone,  and 

marrow;  and  these  immortal,  mind,  voice,  breath,  eye,  ear 

6.  The  gods  said,  '  let  us  make  him  immortal.'  So  [saying],  having 
surrounded  this  mortal  part  with  these  immortal  parts,  they  made  it 
immortal thence  Prajapati  became  immortal  .  .  .  %  ." 

x.  1,  4,  1. — "Prajapati  was  formerly  both  of  these  two  things, 
mortal  and  immortal.  His  breaths  were  immortal,  and  his  body 
mortal.  By  this  rite,  bytjjis  ceremonial,  he  made  himself  uniformly 
undecaying  and  immortal." 

S'atapatha  Brahmana  x.  4,  4,  1  :  Prajdpatim  vai  prajdh  srijamdnam 
pdpmd  mrityitr  alhipJirijaghdna  \  sa  tapo  'tapyata  sahasram  samvatsardn 
pdpmdnam  ^ijihdsann  ^ityddi  \  "•> Misery,  death,  smote  Prajapati  when 

97  Comp.  Taitt.  Sanh.  ii.  3,  2,  1.  Devuh  wi  mrityor  abibhayiih,  te  Prajapati m 
upadhavan  \  "The  gods  were  afraid  of  Doath :  they  hastened  to  Prajapati,"  etc. 
See  also  S'atap.  Br.  x.  4,  2,  2,  quoted  in  the  first  volume'of  this  work,  p.  69. 


56  EXTRACTS  FROM  S'ATAPATHA  BRAHMANA  ^ 

he  was  creating  living  beings.  H^e  performed  austerity  for  a  thousand 
years,  to  get  free  from  misery."  See  the  passages  to*  a  similar  effect, 
quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  B8  ff.,  and  S'atap.  Br. 
xi.  4,  3,  1  ff.,  quoted  in  the  fifth  volume,  p.  349 ;  and  further  the  same 
Brahmana,  iv.  6,  3,  1  :  Prajdpater  ha  vai  pra/jdh  sasrijdnasya  parvdni 
msasramsuh  :  "As  Prajapati  was  creating  living  beings^  his  joints 
became  relaxed,"  etc. 

The  next  extracts  tell  how  the  gods  acquired  immortality ;  and  the 
first  Of  them  also  informs  us  of  a  means  whereby  men  may  become 
immortal,  after  the  decay  of  their  bodies/*8 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  x.  4,  3,  1  ff.  (p.  787) :  Esha  vai  mrityur  yat 
sdmvatsarah  \  Esha  hi  martyfindm  aho-rdtrdbhydm  dyuh  kshinoty  atha 
mriyante  tasmdd  esha  eva  mrityuh  \  sa  yo  ha  etam  mrityum  samvatsaram 
veda  na  ha  asya  esha  purd  {j'ar*hso  '  ho-rdtrdlhydm  dyuh  kshinoti  sarvam 
ha  eva  dyur  eti  \  2.  Esha  eva  antakah  \  esha  hi  martydndm  aho-rdtrd- 
Ihydm  dyusho  'ntam  gachhaty™  atha  mriyante  \  tasmddesha  eva  antakah  \ 
sa  yo  ha  etam  antakam  mrityum  samvatsaram(veda  na  ha  asya  esha  purd 
jaraso  ' ho-rdtrdbhydm  dyusho  'ntam  gachhati  sarvam  ha  eva  dyur  eti  \ 

<*. 

3.  Te  devdh  etasmdd  antakdd  mrityoh  samvatsardt  Prajdpater  bibhaydn- 
chakrur  '  yadvai  no  'yam  aho-rdtrdlhydm  dyusho  'ntam  na  gachhed'  iti  \ 

4.  Te  etdn  yajnakratums  tenire  'gnihotram  darsa-purnamdsau  chdturmds- 
ydni  pasulandham  saumyam  adhvaram  \  te  etair  yajna-kratubhir  yaja- 
mdndh  na  amritatvam  dnasire  |  5.  Te  ha  apy  Agnim  chikyire  |  te  'pari- 
mitdh   eva  parisritah   upadadhur   aparimitdh  yajushmatlr  aparimitdh 
lokamprindh  yathd  idam  apy  etarhy  eke  upadadhati  iti  devdh  akurvann  iti 
te  ha  na  eva  amritatvam  dnasire  \  6.  Te  'rchantah  irdmyantas  cherur 
amritatvam  avarurutsamdndh  \  tan  ha  Prajdpatirr  uvdcha  '  na  vai  me 
sarvdni  rupdny  upadhattha  ati  vd  eva  rechayatha  ,na  vd  'Ihydpayatha 
tasmud  na  amritdh  bhavatha'  iti  |  7.  Te  ha  uchuh  \  '  telhyo  vai  nas  tvam 
eva  tad  Iruhi  yathd  te   sarvdni  rupdny  upddadhdma '  iti  \    8.  Sa  ha 
uvdcha  shashtim  cha  trlni  cha  satdni  parisritah  upadhatta  shashtim  cha 

,trlni  cha  satdni  yajushmatlr  adhi  shat-trimsatam  atha  lokamprindh  dasa 

<  , 

n  ( 

98  Comp.  S'atap.  Br.  ix.  5,  1,  1  ff.,  quoted  IE  the  first  volume  of  thfs  work,  p.  14, 
note;  and  the  same  Brahmana  ix.  3,  3,  2.     In  S'atapi  Br.  x.  3,  5,  13,  happiness, 
or  gladness,  is  said  to  te  the  s^ul  or  ^essence  of  all  the  gods  (anandatntano  ha  eva 
sarve  devah).  n  r 

99  Gachhati  =gamay ati    'X/omm. 


TELI.ING  HO      THE  GODS  ATTAINED  IMMORTALITY.         57 


cJia  sahasrdny  ashtau  cha  satdny  upadhatta  atha  me  sarvdni  rupdny 
upTidhdsyatha  atha  amrituh  bhavishyatha'  iti  \  te  ha  tathd  devdh  upa- 
dadhus  tato  devdh  amrituh  dsuh  \  9.  Sa  mrityur  devdn  abravld^  ittham 
eva  sarve  manushydh  amritdh  bhavishyanty  atha  ko  mahyam  bhdgo 
bhavishyati  '  iti  \  te  ha  uchur  '  na  ato  'parah  kaschana  saha  iarlrena 
amrito  'sad.yadd  eva  tvam  etam  bhdgam  hardsai  \  atha,  vydvritya 
sarlrena  \_sarlram  vihdya,  Comm.]  amrito  'sad  yo  'mrito  'sad  vidyayd 
vd  karmand  vd  '  iti  \  yad  vai  tad  abruvan  '  vidyayd  vd  karmand  vd  '  ity 
eshd  ha  eva  sd  vidyd  yad  Agnir  etad  u  ha  eva  tat  karma  yad  Apnih  \ 
10.  Te  ye  evam  etad  vidur  $e  vd  etat  karma  *kurvate  mritvd  punah 
sambhavanti  \  te  sambhavantah  eva  amritatvam  abhi  sambhavanti  \  atha 
ye  evam  na  vidur  ye  vd  etat  karma  na  kunvate  mritvd  punah  sambhavanti 
te  etasya  eva  annam  punah  punar  bhavanti  \ 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  p.  787.  —  "Itns  this  year  whicli  is  death; 
for  it  wears  away  the  life  of  mortals  oy  days  and  nights,  and 
then  they  die;  wherefore  it  is  it  which  is  death.  Whoso  knows 
this  death  [which  is]  the  year,  —  it  does  not  wear  away  his  life 

*  I 

by  days  and  nights  before  [the  time  of]  his  decay:  he  lives 
through  his  whole  life.  2.  This  [the  year]  is  the  enderj  for  it 
by  days  and  nights  brings  on  the  end  of  the  life  of  mortals,  and  then 
they  die  :  hence  it  is  the  ender.  "Whosoever  knows  this  ender,  death, 
the  year,  it  does  not  by  days  and  nights  bring  on  the  end  of  his  life, 
before  his  decay  :  he  lives  through  his  whole  life.  3.  The  gods  were 
afraid  of  this  ender,  death,  the  year  [which  is]  Prajapati,  'lest  he 
should  by  days  and  nights  bring  on  the  end  of  our  life.'  4.  They 
performed  these  rites  of  sacrifice,  viz.  the  agnihotra,  the  darsa  and 
purnamasa,  the  chaturmasyas  (oblations  offered  at  intervals  of  four 
months),  the  pasubandha,  and  the  saumya  adhvara  :  but  sacrificing 
with  these  rites  they  did  not  attain  immortality.  5.  They  moreover 
kindled  sacrificial  fires  ;  the,y  celebrated  parisrits,  yajushmatis,  lokam- 
prinas,  without  definite  measure,  as  some  even  now  10°  celebrate  them. 
So  did  the  gods,  but  they  did  not  attain  immortality.  6.  They  went  on 
worshipping  end  toiliflg,  seeking  to  acquire  immortality.  Prajapati  said 
to  them,  '  Ye  do  not  Celebrate  all  my  forms  ;  ye  either  carry  them  to 
excess,  or  ye  do  not  fuily  carry  them  out;  hence  ye  do  not  become 

100  This  seems  -to  be  a  polemical  hit  aimed  "-by  the  author  of  the  Briihmana  at  some 
contemporaries  who  followed  a  different  ritual  from  himself. 


58  HOW  THE  GODS  BECAME  IMMORTAL       » 

immortal.'  7.  They  said,  'Tell  u|  how  we  pay  celebrate  all  thy  forms.' 
8.  He  said,  'Perform  63  hundred  parisrits,  63  hundred  and  36  yajusn- 
matis,  and  10  thousand  8  hundred  lokamprinaa/ye  shall  then  celebrate 
all  my  forms,  and  shall  become  immortal.'  The  gods  celebrated  ac- 
cordingly, and  then  they  became  immortal.  t  9.  Death  said  to  the  gods, 
'  In  the  same  way  all  men  will  become  immortal,  and  then  what  portion 
shall  remain  to  me  ? '  They  said,  '  No  other  person  shall  henceforward 
become  immortal  with  his  body,  when  thou  shalt  seize  this  portion 
[the  « body]  :  then  every  one  who  is  to  become  immortal  through 
knowledge  or  work,  shall  become  imntortal  after  parting  with  his 
body.'  This  which  they  said,  'through  knowledge  or  work,'  this  is 
that  knowledge  which  is  Agni,  that  work  which  is  Agni.  10.  Those 
who  so  know  this,  or  those  who  perform  this  work,  are  born  again 
after  death ;  and  from  the  fatfi,  of  being  born,  they  are  born  for  im- 
mortality. And  those  who  do  not  so  know,  or  those  who  do  not 
perform  this  work,  and  are  born  again  after  death,  become  again  and 
again  his  (death's)  food." 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xi.  i.  2,  12. — Marty  ah  ha  vai  agre  devah 
asuh  \  sa  yadd  eva  te  samvatsaram  dpur  atha  amritdh  dsuh  \  sarvam  vai 
samvatsarah  \  sarvam  vai  akshayyam  \  etena  u  ha  asya  alcshayyam  sukritam 
lhavaty  akshayyo  lolcah  \  "  The  gods  were  originally  mortal.101  When 
they  obtained  the  year,  they  became  immortal.  The  year  is  all :  all 
is  undecaying :  by  it  a  man  obtains  undecaying  welfare,  an  undecaying 
world." 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xi.  2,  3,  6. — Martydh  ha  vai  agre  devdh 
dsuh  \  sa  yadd  eva  te  Brahmana,  "pur  (vydptdh,  Comm.)  atha  amritdh 
dsuh  \  "  The  gods  were  originally  mortal.  When  they  were  pervaded 
by  Brahma,  they  became  immortal"  (see  the  context  of  this  passage 
in  the  fifth  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  388).  Comp.  Taitt.  Br.,  iii.  10,  9,  1, 
quoted  in  the  first  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  7V,  l 


The  following  story  describps  how  the  gods  became  distinguished 
from,  and  superior  to,  the  Asuras.  S'atapatha  Brahmana,' ix.  5,  1,  12  ff. 
(p.  741). — Devdscha  Asurdscha  ulhayk  prdjdpatydh  Prajdpateh  pitur 

101  See  S'atapatha  IfrShman^  ii.  2,r9,,  8,  quoted  in  the  second  volume  of  this  work, 
p.  388,  note  36,  for  another  legend  on  this  same  subject,  in  which' the  gods  are  said 
to  have  become  immortal  by  another  means. 


•          ANIj,  SUPERIOR  TO  THE  ASURAS.  59 

ddyam 102  upeyur  vdcham  evta  satydnrite  satyanchaiva  anritancha  \  te 
ubhaye  eva  satyam  avadann  ubhaye  'nritam  \  te  ha  sadrisam  vadantah 
sadrisdh  eva  dsuh  {  13*  Te  devdh  utsrijya  anritam  satyam  anvdlebhire  \ 
asurdh  u  ha  utsrijya  satyam  anritam  anvdlebhire  \  14.  Tad  ha  idam 
satyam  ikshdnchakre  yad  asureshv  dsa  '  devdh  vai  utsrijya  anritam  satyam 
anvdlapsala  hanta  tad  aydni1  Hi  tad  devdn  djagdma  \  15.  Anritam  u 
ha  ikshdnchakre  yad  deveshv  dsa  '  asurdh  vai  utsrijya  satyam  anritam 
anvdlapsata  hanta  tad  aydni'  iti  tad  asurdn  djagdma  \  16.  Te  devdh 
sarvam  satyam  avadan  sarvam  asurdh  anritam  \  te  devd  dsakti 10J  satyam 
vadantah  aishdvlratardh  iva  dfttr  anddhyatardh  tva  \  tasmdd  «  ha  etad 
yah  dsakti  satyam  vadaty  aishdvlratarah  iva  eva  lhavaty  anddhyatarah 
iva  |  sa  ha  tv  eva  antato  bhavatim  devah  hy^vdntato  'lhavan  \  17.  Atlia 
ha  asurdh  dsakty  anritam  vadantah  ushah  iva  pipisur 105  ddhydh  iva  dsuh\ 
tasmdd  u  ha  etad  yah  dsakty  anritam  ^vadaty  ushah  iva  eva  pisyaty 
ddhyah  iva  bhavati  pard  ha  tv  eva  antato  bhavati para  hy  asurdh  abhavan  \ 
tad  yat  tat. satyam  trayl  sd  vidyd  \  te  devdh  abruvan  'yajnam  kritvd  idam 
satyam  tanavdmahai '  |  .  .  .  .  .  27.  Teshu  preteshu  tritlya-savanam 
atanvata  \  tat  samasthdpayan  \  yat  samasthdpayams  tat  sarvam  satyam 
dpnuvams  tato  Asurdh  apapupruvire  \  tato  devdh  abhavan  pard  Asurdh  \ 
bhavaty  dtmand  pard  'sya  dvishan  bhrdtrivyo  lhavati  yah  evam  veda  \ 

"The  gods  and  Asuras,  both  descendants  of  Prajapati,106  obtained 
their  father  Prajapati's  inheritance,  speech,  true  and  false,  both  truth 

102  Compare  S'atap.  Br.,  i.  7,  2,  22. 

103  Asakti  satyam  \  kevalam  satyam  \  Comm. 

104  Some  such  preposition  as  abhi  might  appear  to  be  wanted  here;   but  Dr. 
Aufrecht  suggests  to  me  that  bhavati  may  be  taken  in  a  pregnant  sense  as  meaning, 
"he  really  exists,  continues,  or  prevails."      Compare  the  words  at  the  close  of  the 
27th  paragraph  of  this  passage.  • 

105  I  am  indebted  to  Dr.  Aufrecht  for  pointing  out  to  me  another  passage  of  the 
S'atapatha  Brahmana  where  the  word  pisyati  occurs,  and  which  throws  light  on  the 
one  before  us.     The  passage  in  question  occurs  in  pp.  71,  72,  of  the  Brahmaua, 
i.  7,  3,  18  :  Pesukam  vaivastupisfati  ha  prajaya  pas ubhir  yasya  evam  vidusho  'tiush- 
tubhau  bhavatah  \     "  His  house  becomes  flourishing,  he  increases  in  progeny  and 
cattle, — that  man  who,  when  he  know's  this,  has  the  two  anushtubhs."    The  commen- 
tator explains  the  word  pyukam  as  equal  to  al-hivardhana-stlam,  "  whose  nature  is 
to  increase,"  and  pisyati  as  meaning  ativriddho  bhavati,  "he  becomes  exceedingly 
augmented." 

106  Comp.  Taitt.  Br.  i.  4,  !•>  1.      Ubhaye  vai  ete  Prajapater  adhy  asrijyanta  devas' 
cha  asuras'  cha  \  tan  na  vyajanad  "  ime  anye  ime  anye  "  iti  \  •>'  Gods  and  Asuras  were 
both  created  from -Prajapati.    He  could  not  distinguish  the  one  as  different  from  the 
other."  * 


60  HOW  THE  GODS  BECAME  SUPERIOR  TO  TH.E 

and  falsehood.  They  both  spoke  truth,  and  both  [spoke]  falsehood. 
Speaking  alike,  they  were  alike.  13.  Then  the  gods>  abandoning  false- 
hood, adopted  truth;  while  the  Asuras,  abandoning  truth,  adopted 
falsehood.  14.  The  truth  which  had  been  in  the  Asuras  perceived 
this,  '  the  gods,  abandoning  falsehood,  have  adopted  truth ;  let  me  go 
to  it.'  So  [saying,  truth]  came  to  the  gods.  15.  Then  .the  falsehood 
which  had  been  in  the  gods  perceived,  *the  Asuras,  abandoning  truth, 
have  adopted  falsehood ;  let  me  go  to  it.'  So  [saying,  falsehood]  came 
to  the  Asuras.  16.  The  gods  [then]  spoke  entirely  truth,  and  the 
Asuras  entirely  falsehood.  Speaking  truth  exclusively  (or  devotedly), 
the  gods  became,  as  it  were,  weaker,  and,  as  it  were,  poorer.  Hence  it 
happens  that  the  man  who  speaks  exclusively  truth  becomes,  as  it  were, 
weaker  and  poorer;  but  in  the  end  ne  becomes  [prosperous],  for  the 
gods  became  so  in  the  end.  1*7.  Then  the  Asuras,  speaking  exclusively 
falsehood,  increased  like  saline  earth,  and  became,  as  it  were,  rich. 
Hence  it. happens  that  he  who  speaks  exclusively  falsehood  increases 
like  saline  earth,  and  becomes,  as  it  were,  rich ;  but  succumbs  in  the 

<  <• 

end,  for  the  Asuras  succumbed.  That  which  is  truth  is  the  triple 
science*  (the  three  Vedas).  Then  the  gods  said,  '  Let  us,  after  per- 
forming sacrifice,  celebrate  this  truth.'  "  The  gods  then  performed  a 
variety  of  sacrifices,  which  were  always  interrupted  by  the  arrival  of 
the  Asuras.  At  length,  27.  "  "When  these  had  gone,  they  celebrated 
the  third  Savana,  and  accomplished  it.  Inasmuch  as  they  accomplished 
it,  they  found  it  entirely  true.  Then  the  Asuras  went  away,  and  the 
gods  became  [superior,  while]  the  Asuras  were  worsted.  The  man 
who  knows  this  becomes  in  his  own  person  superior,  and  his  hater,  his 
enemy,  \s  defeated." 

Another  story  relates  to  the  same  subject,  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  v. 

1.  1,  1  (=xi.  1,  8,  1  f.) :  Devds  cha  vai  Asuras  cha  ubhaye  prdjdpatydh 
paspridhire  \  tato  'surah  atimdnena  eva  "  $cr3min  nu  vayamjuhuydma" 
iti  sveshv  eva  dsyeshu  juhvatas  cheruh  \  te  'timdnena  eva  partibabhuvuh  \ 
tasmdd  na  atimanyeta  \  pardbhavasya  hy  etad  mulchaih  yad  abhimdnah  \ 

2.  Atha  devdh   anyo   'nyasmin  juhvatas  cheruJf  \    tebhgah  Prajdpatir 
dtmdnam  pradadau  \  yajno  'ha  eshdm,  dsa  yajfio  hi  devdndm  annam  \ 
"  The  gods  and  Asuras,  both  of  them  the  offspring  of  Prajapati,  strove 
together.     Then  the  AsLras,  taking  themselves  to  whom  they  should 
offer  their  oblations,  'through  presumption  went  on  placing  them  in 


ASTJEAS,  AlfD  UNEQUAL  AMONG  THEMSELVES.  61 

their  own  mouths ; 107  and  in  consequence  of  this  their  presumption  they 
were  overcome.  Wherefore  let  no  one  be  presumptuous ;  for  presump- 
tion leads  to  defeat.  '  2.  The  gods  went  on  offering  their  oblations 
to  one  another.  Prajapati  gave  himself  to  them ;  sacrifice  became 
theirs;  for  sacrifice  supplier  the  food  of  the  gods."  108 

The  following  is  from  the  Taittirlya  Brahmana,  iii.  2,  9,  6  f. :  Asurd- 
ndm  vai  iyam  agre  dslt  \  ydvad  dslnah  pardpasyati  tdvad  devdndm  \ 
te  devdh  abruvan  "  astv  eva  no  ''yam  api"  iti  "  kyam  no  ddsyatha"  iti  \ 
"  ydvat  svayam  parigrihnitha  "  iti  \  "  This  [earth]  formerly  belonged 
to  the  Asuras.  The  gods  had* only  as  much  as  any  one  can  see  while 
sitting.  The  gods  said  to  them,  '  Let  us  also  have  a  share  in  it. 
What  will  you  give  us  ? '  'As  much  as  you,  yourselves  can  encompass.' " 
The  different  classes  of  gods  then  encompassed  it  on  four  sides.109 

The  next  legend  explains  how  inequality  was  introduced  among  the 
gods.  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  iv.  5,  4,  1  (p.  397  f.). — Sarve  ha  vai  devdh 
agre  sadrisdh  dsuh  sarvepunydh  \  teshdm  sarveshdm  sadrisdndm  sarveshdm 
punydndm  trayo  'kdmayanta  '  atishthdvdnah  sydma '  ity  Agnir  Indrah 
Siiryah  \  2.  Te  'rchantah  srdmyantaS  cheruh  \  te  etdn  atigrdhydn  da- 
drUus  tdn  atyagrihnata  \  tad  yad  endn  atyagrihnata  tasmdd  atlgrahyuli 
ndma  I  te  'tishthdvdno  'bhavan  \  yathd  te  etad  atishtJid  iva  atishthd  iva 
ha  vai  bhavati  yasya  evam  vidmhah  etdn  grahdn  grihnanti  \  3.  No  ha  vai 
idam  agre  'gnau  varchah  dsa  yad  idam  asmin  varchah  \  so  'kdmayata 
( idam  mayi  varchah  sydd '  iti  \  sa  etarn  graham  apasyat  tarn  agrihnlta 
tato  'sminn  etad  varchah  dsa  \  4.  No  ha  vai  idam  agre  Indre  ojah  dsa 
yad  idam  asminn  ojah  \  so  'kdmayata  '  idam  mayy  ojah  sydd '  iti  \  sa 
etam  graham  apasyat  tam  agrihnlta  tato  Asminn  etad  ojah  dsa  \  5.  No 
ha  vai  idam  agre  surye  Ihrdjah  dsa  yad  idam  asmin  Ihrdjah  \  so  \kdmayata 
1  idam  mayi  bhrdjahvsydd '  iti  \  sa  etam  graham  apasyat  tam  agrihmta 
tato  'sminn  etad  bhrdjah  dsa  \  etdni  ha  vai  tejdmsy  etdni  virydny  dtman 
dhatte  yasya  evam  vidushah  <tfdn  grahdn  grihnanti  \ 

"Originally  the  gods  were  all  alike,  all  pure.  Of  them,  being  all 
alike,  all  pure,  three  desired:  '  May  we  become  superior,'  viz.  Agni, 
Indra,  and  Stirya  (th%  sun).  2.  They  went  on  worshipping  and  toiling. 

107  Comp.  the  words  ye  adhi  s'uptav  ajuhvata,  R.  V.  i.  51,  5 ;  and  Sayana's  com- 
ment thereon. 

108  Comp.  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  3.  2,  1 :  SarveshanSvai  es'^a  bhutanam  sarvesham  devanam 
utma  yad  yajnah  \    "  Sacrifice  is  the  soul  of  all  beings,  $f  all  the  gods." 

109  Comp.  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  vi.  6,  2,  11 ;  vi.  6,  3,  2 ;  xi.  2,  7,  26. 


62       SUPERIORITY  OF  AGNI,  INDRA,  AKD  SURYA; 

They  saw  these  atigrahyas ; no  th,ey  offered  them  over  and  above.  Be- 
cause they  did  so,  these  draughts  (or  cups)  were  called  atigrahyas. 
They  foecame  superior.  As  they  [became]  thus,  as  it  were,  superior, 
so  superiority  is,  as  it  were,  acquired  by  the  man,  of  whom,  when  he 
knows  this,  they  receive  these  grahas  (draughts,  or  cups).  3.  Ori- 
ginally there  was  not  in  Agni  the  same  flame,  as  this  flame  which  is 
[now]  in  him.  He  desired :  '  May  this  flame  be  in  me.'  He  saw  this 
graha,  he  took  it ;  and  hence  there  became  this  flame  in  him.  4.  Ori- 
ginally there  was  not  in  Indra  the  same  vigour,  etc.,  etc.  [as  in  para. 
3].  5.  Originally  there  was  not  in  Sufya  the  sSme  lustre,  etc.,  etc. 
[the  same  as  in  para.  3].  That  man  has  in  himself  these  forces,  these 
energies,  of  whom,  when  he,  knows  this,  they  receive  these  grahas." 

110  By  this  name  are  called  "thrae  particular  grahas,  or  sacrificial  vessels,  with 
•which  lihations  were  made  in  ttie  Jyotishtoma  sacrifice  to  Agni,  Indra,  and  Surya." 
Prof.  Goldstiicker's  Diet.  The  word  is  explained  by  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  as  mean- 
ing " haustus  insuper  hauriendus,"  a  draught  to  he  drunk  over  and  above;  the 
designation  of  three  fillings  of  the  cup,  which  are  drawn  at  the  Soma  offering. 


63 


CHAPTER  II. 

> 

VISHNU,    AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE    VEDIC    HYMNS,    THE 
BRAHMANAS,  THE   ITIHASAS,  AND  THE  PURANAS. 

SECT.  I. — Passages  in  the  Hymns  of  the  Rig-veda  relating  to    Vishnu. 

*  .  * 

i 

R.  Y.  i.  22,  16  ff. :  16  (=S.  Y.  2,  1024).  Ato  devdh  avantu  no  yato 
Vishnur  vichakrame  \  prithivydh  sapta  dhdmCJbhih  \  17  (  =  S.  V.  i.  222; 
Yaj.  S.  5,  15;  A.  V.  7,  26,  4).  Idam  Vishnur  vichakrame  tredhd 
nidadhe  padam  \  samulham  asya  pdmsure  [pamsule  \  S.  Y.]  18  (  =  S.  V. 
2,  1020;  Yaj.  S.  34,  43;  A>Y.  7,  26,  5).  Trlni  padd  vichakrame  Vishnur 
gopdh  addlhyah  \  ato  dharmdni  dhdrayan  \  19  (=S.  Y.  2,  1021  ;,Yaj.  S. 

6,  4 ;  A.  Y.  7,  26,  6).    Vishnoh  karmdni  pasyata  yato  vratdni  paspase  \ 
Indrasya  yujyah1  sakha  \   20  (=S.  Y.  2,  1022;  Yaj.  S.  6,  5;  A.  Y. 

7,  26,  7).  Tad  Vishnoh  paramam  padam  sadu  pasyanti  siirayah  \  divlvi 
chakshur  atatam  \  21  (=S.  Y.  2,  1023;  Yaj.  S.  34,  44).  Tad  vipraso 
vipanyavo  jdgrivamsah  samindhate  \    Vishnor  yat  paramam  padam  \ 

16.  "May  the  gods  preserve  us  from  the  place  from  which  Yishnu 
strode2  over  the  seven  regions  of  the  earth.3  17.  Yishnu  strode  over 
this  [universe] ;  in  three  places  he  planted  his  step :  [the  world,  or 

1  Yujyo  ca  sakha  va,  S.  V.  ii.  28,  10 ;  yi<J,  i.  10,  9 ;  yujyaya,  ix.  66,  18. 

2  Mbh.    S'anti-Parva,   v.    13171  :   Kramanach  chapy  aham  Part  ha    Vishnur  ity 
abhisamjnitah  \     "  And  from  stricfi^jg,  0  son  of  Pritha,  I  am  called  Vishnu."     The 
A.  V.  ix.  6,  29,  speaks  of  the  steps  of  Prajapati  being  imitated  by  his  worshipper 
(Prajapater  vai  esha  vikraman  anuviktltmate  yah  upaharatt). 

3  Instead  of  the  words  prithivyah  sapta  dhamabhih,  the  Sama-veda  reads,  prithi- 
vyah adhi  sanavi  .-1>"  over  tne  surface  of  the  earth."    This  verse,  as  well  as  the  follow- 
ing ones,  is  rendered  by  Pr  Jfessor  Benfey,  in  his  translation  of  the  Sama-veda,  as 
well  as  in  his  "  Orient  und  Occident,"  i.  30.     He  understands  the  place  from  which 
Vishnu  strides  to  be  the  sun,  referring  to  verse  20.     For  the  sense  given  by  Sayana 
to  this  and  the  follqwing  verses,  see  Wilson's  tcanslatiol  of  the  Rig-veda  and  notes 
in  loco.    Compare  also  Rosen's  Latin  version.  > 


64  NIRUKTA'S  EXPLANATION  OF  VISHNJU'S  STRIDES. 

his  step,  was]  enveloped  in  his  dr^st.4  18.  .Vishnu,  the  unconquerable5 
preserver,  strode  three  steps,  thereby  maintaining  fixed  ordinances. 
19.  Behold  the  acts  of  Vishnu,  through  which  this  intimate  friend 
of  Indra  perceived6  established  laws.  20.  Sages  constantly  behold 
that  highest  position  of  Vishnu,  like  an  eye  fixed  in  the  sky.  21. 

^1 

"Wise  men,  singing  praises,  and  ever  wakeful,  light  up 7  [by  the  power 
of  their  hymns  ?]  that  which  is  the  highest  station  of  Vishnu." 

The  17th  verse  of  this  hymn  is  quoted  in  the  Mrukta,  xii.  19  ;8 
where  we  have  the  following  explanations  of  its  purport,  derived  by 
Yaska  from  two  older  writers  : — 

Yad  idaih  kincha  tad  vikramate  Vishnuh  \  tridhd  nidhatte  padam  \ 
1  tredhd-tikdvdya  prithivydm  untarikshe  Aim '  iti  S'dkapunih  \  ( samd- 
rohdne  vishnupade  gaya&irasi'  ity  Aurnavdlhah  \  '  samudham  asya  pdm- 
sure '  |  pydyane  'ntarikshg  pMam  na  drisyate  \  apivd  upamdrthe  sydt  \ 
samudham  asya  pdihsule  wa  padam  na  drisyate  ityddi  \ 

"Vishnu  strides  over  this,  whatever  exists.  He  plants  his  step  in 
a  three-fold  manner, — i.e.  'for  a  three-fold  existence,  on  earth,  in  the 
atmosphere,  and  in  the  sky,'  according  to  S'akapuni;  or,  'on  the  hill 
where  he  rises,  on  the  meridian,  and  on  the  hill  where  he  sets,'  ac- 
cording to  Aurnavabha.  '  Samudham  asya  pdffisure,'  i.e.  his  step  is 


4  According  to  Benfey,  translation  of  S.  V.,  p.  223,  note,  this  phrase,  the  world  is 
veiled  in  Vishnu's  dust,  means,  it  is  subjected  to  him.     In  his  "  Orient  und  Occident," 
he  explains  it  thus:  "he  is  so  mighty  that  the  dust  which  his  tread  raises,  fills  the 
whole  earth."     Can  this  dust  be  understood  of  the  dazzling  brightness  of  the  sun's 
rays,  surrounding  his  progress,  and  obscuring  his  disc  from  the  view  of  the  observer  ? 
The  prophet  Nahum  says,  i.  3,  "  The  Lord  hath  his  way  in  the  whirlwind  and  in  the 
storm,  and  the  clouds  are  the  dust  of  his  feet." 

5  Adafhya  may  also  mean  "who  cannot  be  deceived."     The  idea  of  Vishnu  being 
pre-eminently  the  preserver  of  the  universe,  which  became  current  in  later  times,  may 
possibly  have  been  derived  from  this  verse. 

6  Sayana  gives  to  the  root  spas  the  sense  of  "hindering,"  or  "touching."    Benfey, 
in  his  S.  V.,  renders paspase  by  "received,"  and,rin  the  "Orient  und  Occident,1'  by 
"firmly  fixed.1'     The  sense,  he  says,  is  this:  r"Look  to  the  sun,  where  the  terminus 
lies  from  which  Vishnu  started  (verses  16,  21),  and  in  which  all  the  powers  which 
work  in  nature  have  their  source."     Roth,  in  his  Illustrations  ojf  the  Nirukta,  pp. 
138  f.,  thinks  that  the  sense  of  V  beholding  "  is  suitable  in  all  the  texts  where  forms 
of  the  root  spas'  occur  in  the  R.  V. 

7  Benfey  renders  samindhate  "glorify."     The  commentator  on  the  Vaj.  S.  34,  44, 
makes  it  dfpayante  =rupasat^     Ro$,  under  the  word,  explains  "  they  kindle  [Agni  ?] 
when  Vishnu  is  in  his  highest  position." 

8  Formerly  cited  in  part  in  the  second  volume  of  this  work. 


CENT  0? 


,  DURGA'S  COMMENT  OX  THE  PASSAGE  OF  THE  NIRUKTA.      65 

not  seen  in  that  prolific  region,  the  atmosphere  (pydyane  antarikshe) : 
or  the  phrase  may  be  metaphorical,  '  enveloped  in  his  dust,  as  it  were, 
his  step  is  not  seen,"  etc. 

The  following  is  the  comment  of  Durgacharya9  on  this  passage  of 
the  Mrukta :  > 

Vishnur  Arlituah  \  Eatham  iti  yatah  aha  '  tredha  nidadhe  padam '  ni- 
dhatte  padam  nidhdnam  padaih  \  kva  tat  tdvat  \  ' prithivydm  antarikshe 
divi'  iti  S'dkapunih  \  pdrthivo  'gnir  bhutvd  prithivydm  yat  kinchid  asti 
tad  vikramate  tad  adhitishthati  \  antarikshe  vaidyutdtmand  \  divi  surydt- 
rnand  \  yad  uktam  '  tarn  u  akrinvan  tredha,  bhuve  kam '  (H.  V.  x.  88,  10) 
iti  |  '  samdrohane '  udaya-girdv  udyan  padam  ekam  nidhatte  \  '  vishnu- 
pade'  madhyandine  Antarikshe  \  'gayasirasy'  astamgirdv  ity  Aurnavdbhah 
dchuryo  manyate  \ 

"  Vishnu  is  the  sun  [Aditya].10  How  so?  »Because  [the  hymn]  says, 
'  in  three  places  he  planted  his  step ' ;  i.e.  plants  his  step,  [makes]  a 
planting  with  his  steps.  Where,  then,  is  this  done  ?  '  On  the  earth, 
in  the  firmament,  and  in  the  sky,'  according  to  S'akapuni.  Becoming 
terrestrial  fire,  he  strides  over, — abides  in,  whatever  there  is,  on  earth; 
in  the  shape  of  lightning,  in  the  firmament ;  and  in  the  form  of  the 
sun,  in  the  sky.  As  it  is  said  (in  the  R.  V.  x.  88,  10),  'They  made 
him  to  become  threefold."  Aurnavabha  Acharya  thinks  [the  meaning 
is]  this,  '  He  plants  one  foot  on  the  '  samarohana '  (place  of  rising), 
when  mounting  over  the  hill  of  ascension ;  [another]  on  the  '  vishnu- 
pada,'  the  meridian  sky;  [a  third]  on  the  '  gayasiras,'  the  hill  of  set- 
ting." » 

It  thus  appears  from  the  statement  of  Yaska  that  the  two  old  writers 
whom  he  quotes  had  proposed  two  different  interpretations  of  Vishnu's 
steps.  , 

First :  S'akapuni  thought  that  the  triple  manifestation  of  the  god,  in 
the  form  of  fire  on  earth,  ol'.Jlightning  in  the  atmosphere,  and  of  the 
solar  light  in  the  sky,  was  intended  in  the  hymn.  This  threefold  dis- 
tribution of  divine  agency  is  thus  referred  to  in  another  interesting 
passage  of  the  Iftrakta*  vii.  5  : 

_ 
9  Already  quoted  in  the  secoad  volume  of  this  work. 

10  The  Atharvaveda,  v.  26,  7  has  the  following  re%ence  tb  Vishnu:    Vishnur 
yitnaJitu  bahudha  tapainsi  asmin  yajne  suyujah  sfiiha  \ 

11  See  Appendix  B. 


66        S'AKAPUNI  AND  AIJRNAVABHA  ON  VISHNU'S  STRIDES. 

Tisrah  eva  devatdh  iti  Nairukiuh  Agnik  prithim-sthdno  Vdyur  vd 
Indro  vd  'ntariksha-sthdnah  Suryo  dyu-sthdnah  \  tdsdm  mahdbhdgydd 
ekaikasydh  api  bahuni  ndmadheydni  bhavanti  \  api  vd  karma-prithaktvdd 
yathd  hotd  'dhvaryur  brahmd  udgdtd  ity  apy  ekasya  satah  \  api  vd 
prithag  eva  syuh  \  prithag  hi  stutayo  bhavanti  tathd  'bhidhdndni  ityddi  \ 

"  There  are  only  three  deities,  according  to  the  Nairuktas  (etymo- 
logists), Agni,  whose  place  is  on  earth,  Vayu,  or  Indra,  whose  place 
is  in  the  atmosphere,  and  Surya,  whose  place  is  in  the  sky.  These 
[deities]  each  receive  many  designations,  in  consequence  of  their  great- 
ness,12 or  from  the  diversity  of  their  functions,  as  [the  appellations  of] 
hotri,  adhvaryu,  brahman,  and  udgatri  are  applied  to  one  and  the 
same  person.  Or  [the  gods'  in  question]  may  all  he  distinct,  for 
distinct  hymns  and  appellations  are  addressed  to  them,"  etc.13 

According  to  S'akapuni,(  therefore,  Vishnu  would  he  the  god  who  is 
manifested  in  a  three-fold  form  on  earth,  in  the  atmosphere,  and  in  the 
sky. 

Secondly  :  Aurnavabha  interprets  the  passage  differently.  He  under- 
stands the  three  steps  of  Vishnu,  not  of  fire,  lightning,  and  solar  light, 
but  of  the  different  positions  of  the  sun  at  his  rising,  his  culmination, 
and  his  setting.14  According  to  him,  therefore,  Vishnu  is  simply  the 
sun. 

Sayana  (see  Professor  Wilson's  translation,  p.  53,  note)  understands 
this  passage  as  referring  to  the  three  steps  of  Vishnu  in  his  "Dwarf 
incarnation,"  of  which  I  shall  supply  details  further  on.  The  com- 
mentator on  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita  annotates  thus  on  5,  15  (  =  verse 
17  of  the  hymn  before  us)  : 

Vishnbs  trivikramdvatdram  kritvd  idam  visvam  vicliakrame  vibhajya 
Itramate  sma  \  tad  eva  aha  \  tredhd  padam  nidadlw  bhumdv  ekam  padam 


12  Kal  Tola  iro\\u>v  ovofj.dr(av  poptyr]  /j.ta,  .iEschyljLs  Prom.  Vinct.  v.  217. 

13  In  a  previous  part  of  this  passage,  vii.  4,  it  is'said,  Mahabhagyad  devatayuh  ekah 
atma  bahudhci  stuyate  \  ekasya  atmano  'nye  ^devah  pratyangani  bhavanti  \   "From 
the  greatness  of  the  Deity  the  one  Soul  is  celebrated  in  many  ways.     The  different 
gods  are  members  of  the  one  Soul,"  etc.    Compare  Mr.  Cplebrooke's  Essays,  i.  26  f.  ; 
or  p.  12  f.  of  "W.  and  N.'s  ed.  «   It  appears  from  an  advertisement  in  No.  75  of 
Triibner's  American  and  Oriental  Literary  Record,  that  these  Essays  are  being  re- 
printed under  the  editorship  of  Prof.  E.  B.  Cowell.     (August,  1872.) 

14  This  is  the  vie*'  take%  by  Pjof.  Max  Miiller  :    "-This  stepping  of  Vishnu  is 
emblematic  of  the  rising,  the  culminilting,  and  the  setting  of  the  sun,"  etc.      Trans. 
of  R.  V.,  vol.  i.,  p.  117.  * 


I'URTHEir  TEXT  OF  BJGVEDA  ABOUT  VISHNU.  67 

antarikshe  dvitiyam  dim  trifiyam  iti^kramdd  Agni-Vdyu-Surya-rupena 
ity  arthah  \ 

"Vishnu,  becoming  incarnate  as  Trivikrama  (the  god  who  stepped 
thrice),  strode  over, — i.e.  stepped  by  separate  strides  over, — this  whole 
[universe].  It  is  this  that  [the  rishi]  expresses  [in  the  words],  'In 
three  places- he  planted  his  step,'  i.e.  one  step  on  the  earth,  a  second 
in  the  atmosphere,  and  a  third  in  the  sky :  in  the  successive  forms  of 
Agni,  Vayu,  and  Surya." 

The  commentator  here  combines  the  view  tha^  the  Dwarf  incarnation; 
of  Vishnu  is  referred  to  in  the  hymn,  with  the  conception  that  his  dif- 
ferent steps  on  the  earth,  in  the  atmosphere,  and  in  the  sky,  were  taken 
in  the  successive  characters  of  ^Agni,  Vayu,  and  Surya,  which  is  the 
interpretation  of  S'akapuni,  as  explained  by  Durga.  There  is  no  trace 
in  the  words  either  of  S'akapuni,  or  of  Aurntvabha,  as  handed  down  by 
Yaska,  of  any  allusion  to  such,  a  Trivikrama  incarnation  of  Vishnu.15 


I  proceed  to  quote  in  order  from  the  Eig-veda  further  texts,  relative 
to  Vishnu. 

R.  V.  i.  61,  7  :  Asyed  u  mdtuh  savaneshu  sadyo  mahah  pitum  papivdn 
chant  anna  \  musJidyad  Vishnuh  pachatam  sahiydn  vidhyad  vardham  tiro 
adrim  astd — "Having  at  the  libations  of  that  great  measurer  [of  the 
worlds,  i,e*  Indra],  drunk  the  potion,  and  [eaten]  the  pleasant  oblations, 
the  impetuous  Vishnu  straightway  stole  the  cooked  mess,  pierced  the 
boar  and  shot  through  the  mountain."  See  E.  V.  viii.  66,  10,  below, 
and  the  quotation  from  Say  ana's  note  on  that  verse. 
i 

15  The  Brahmanas,  as.well  as  the  hymns,  contain  frequent  allusions  to  the  three 
steps  or  stations  of  Vishnu.  See  the  S'atap.  Br.  vi.  7,  4,  7  ff. ;  Taitt.  Sanh.  i.  7,  5,  4. 
The  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita  has  the  ^following  additional  reference  to  them.  According 
to  the  commentator,  the  interlocutors  in  the  two  verses  are  the  brahman  and  udgatri 
priests.  Vaj.  Sanh.,  xxiii.  49:  Pricjthami  tva  chitaye  devasaJcha  yadi  tvam  atra 
manasa  jagantha  \  yeshu  Vishnus  treshu  padeshu  eshtas  teshu  visvam  bhuvanam 
avivesa  \  50  |  Api  teshu9trishu  padeshu  asmi  yeshu  visvam  bhuvanam  avivesa\ 
sadyah  paryemi  prithivlm  uta  dyam  ekendngena  diiv  asya  prishtham  \  "  I  ask  thee, 
friend  of  the  gods,  that  I  may  know,  if  thou  hy  thy  mind  hast  reached  so  far, — did 
Vishnu,  in  the  three  steps  (or  spheres)  in  which  he  is  worshipped,  pervade  the  entire 
universe  P  |  50.  I  am  even  in  those  three  stepij  by  v^iich  h§  pervaded  the  entire 
universe.  Straightway  I  move  around  the  earth  and  heaven;  with  one  member, 
(I  move)  over  the  surface  of  this  sky.'' 


68  FURTHER  TEXTS  OF  THE  RIGVEDA 

R.  V.  i.  85,  7 :  Te  avardhanta  tsoa-tavaso  mahitvana  a  nakam  tastJiur 
tiru  chakrire  sadah  \  Vislinur  yad  ha  dvad  vrishanam  mada-chyutam  vayo 
na  sidann  adhi  barhishi  priye  \ 

"  They  (the  Maruts),  strong  in  themselves,  increased  in"  greatness. 
They  ascended  to  heaven,  and  have  made  [for  themselves]  a  spacious 
abode.  When  Vishnu  assisted  the  hero  [Indra  ?]  who  hunfbles  pride,16 
they  sat  down  like  birds  on  the  sacrificial  grass  which  they  love." 

R.  V.  i.  90,  5,  9. —  Uta  no  dhiyo  go-agruh  Pushan  Vi&lino  eva-yavah  \ 
karta  nah  svastimatah  [  9.  iam  no  Mitrah  sam  Varunah  sam  no  bhavatu 
Aryamd  \  sam  nah  Indro  Brihaspatih  sam  no  Vishnur  urukramah  \ 

5.  "Pushan,  Vishnu,  swift  goer,  make  our  prayers  to  bring  us 

cattle  and  other  possessions": '  make  us  prosperous 9.  May 

Mitra,  may  Varuna,  may  Aryaman,  may  Indra,  may  JBrihaspati,  may 
the  wide-striding  Vishnu,  all  grant  us  prosperity." 

I  now  come  to  a  hymn  which,  with  the  exception  of  the  last  verse 
(where  two  gods  are  alluded  to),  is  devoted  exclusively  to  the  celebra- 
tion of  Vishnu's  praises.  f. 

R.  V.  1,  154  (=Vaj.  S.  5,  18;  A.  V.  7,  26,  \}.—  Vishnor  nu  kam 


16  Though  the  commentator  in  loco  renders  mada-chyutam  by  madasya  harsha- 
sya  asektaram,  "dispenser  of  exhilaration"  he  interprets  it  in  his  note  on  R.  V.  i.  51,  2 
— where  it  is  an  epithet  of  Indra — by  s'att  unam  madasya  garvasya  chyavayitaram, 
"who  brings  do\yn  the  pride  of  his  enemies."  In  R.  V.,  viii.  1,  21,  the  word  mada- 
chyut  is  again  applied  to  Indra,  and  in  R.  V.  viii.  85,  5,  to  his  thunderbolt.  [I  leave 
my  translation  to  stand  as  it  was  in  the  first  edition.  Benfey,  however,  "  Orient  und 
Occident,"  ii.  248,  renders  the  clause  about  Vishnu  thus :  "  When  Vishnu  protects 
the  dropping  (Soma)  who  distils  intoxication,"  and  refers  to  a  paper  of  his 
own  in  the  Gott.  Gel.  Anzeigen  regarding  the  relation  of  Vishnu  to  Soma.  In 
Bohtlingk 'and  Roth's  Lexicon  the  word  madachyut,  as  it  ip  to  be  understood  in  this 
passage,  is  translated  "delightful,"  "gladdening,"  "inspiring."  Prof.  Miiller, 
Translation  of  R.  V.,  vol.  i.,  renders  the  clause,  "  When  Vishnu  descried  the  en- 
rapturing Soma."  In  his  note,  p.  116,  he  remarks:  "Vishnu,  whose  character  in 
the  hymns  of  the  Veda  is  very  different  from  that  assumed  by  him  in  later  periods 
of  Hindu  religion,  must  here  be  taken  as  the  friend  and  companion  of  Indra."  After 
quoting  various  texts  about  the  two  gods,  he  adds,  "  The  mention  of  Vishnu  in  our 
hymn  is  therefore  by  no  means  exceptional,  but  the  whole  purport  of  this  verse  is 
nevertheless  very  doubtful,  chiefly  owing  to  the  fact  that  several  of  the  words  occur- 
ring in  it  lend  themselves  to  different  interpretation^."  He  says,  p.  118,  that 
"bringing  down  pride"  is  a  meaning  which  the  wore1  madachyut  clearly  has  not  in 
the  Veda.  When  applied  to  the  thunderbolt,  he  says  it  ought  to  be  rendered  "wildly 
rushing  down"  ;  and  when  referred  to  Indra,  his  horses,  or  the  As'vins,  or  to  horses 
in  general,  he  would  translate  it  by  "furiously  or  wildly  moving  about."] 


RELATIVE  TO  VISHNU.  69 

vlrydni  pravocham™  yah  partliivdn\  vimame  rajdmsi  |  yo  askalhdyad 
uttaraih  sadhastham  vichakramdnas  tredhd  urugdyah  |  2.  (  =  A.  V.  7,  26, 
2,  3;  Mr.  1,  20)  :  Pra  tad  Vishnuh  stavate  viryena  mrigo  na  bhlmah 
kucharo  girishthah19  |  yasyorushu  trishu  vikramaneshu  adhikshiyanti  Ihu- 
vandni  visvd  |  3.  Pra  Vishnave  susham  etu  manma  girikshite  urugdydya™ 
vrishne  |  yah  idam  dlrgham  prayatam  sadhastham  eko  vimame  tribhir  it 
padelhih  |  4.  Yasya  tri  purnd  madhund  paddni  akshlyamdnd  svadhayd 
madanti  |  yah  u  tridhdtu  prithivim  uta  dydm  eko  dddhdra  Ihuvandni 
visvd  |  5.  Tad  asya  priyam  abJd pdtho  (R.V.  iii.  55,  10)asydm  nan)  yatra 
devayavo  madanti  |  urukramatya  sa  hi  landhur  itthd  Vishnoh pade parame 
madhvah  utsah  |  6.  (Yaj.  S.  6,  3  ;  Nir.  2,  7)  :  Td  vdm  vdstuni  usmasi 
gamadhyai  yatra  gdvo  lhuri-£ringdh  ayqsah  \  atrdha  tad  urugdyasya 
vrishnah  paramam  padam  ava  ohdti  bhuri  | 

"I  declare  the  heroic  deeds  of  YislAiu^who  traversed  the  mundane 
regions,  who  estabjished  the  upper  sphere,  striding  thrice,  the  wide- 
stepping.  2.  Therefore  is  Vishnu  celebrated  for  his  prowess,  terrible 
like  a  wild  beast,  destructive,  abiding  in  the  mountains  [or,  clouds,  if 
this  be  an  epithet  of  the  god] ;  he  within  [the  range  of]  whose  three 
vast  paces  all  the  worlds  abide.  3.  Let  my  inspiriting  hymn  proceed 
to  Vishnu,  the  dweller  in  the  [aerial]  mountains,  the  wide-stepping, 
the  vigorous,  who  alone  traversed  with  three  steps  this  wide,  extended 
firmament; — 4.  Whose  three  [steps,  or]  stations,  replenished  with 


17  The  same  form  of  expression  occurs  in  a  hymn  to  Indra  (E,.  V.  i.  32,  1),  IncPrasya 
nu  viryani pravocham,  etc.     Compare  R.  V.,  ii.  15,  1. 

18  On  this  verse  the  Nirukta  remarks :  " Kucharah"  iti  charati  karma  kutsitam\ 
atha  ched  devatabhidhanam  kva  ay  am  na  charati  iti  \  girishthah  giristhay!  girih  par- 
vatah  ....  tat-prakr\ti  itarat  sandhi-samanyad  megha-sthayl  megho  )>i  girir  etas- 
mad  eva  j  " '  Euchara  \  is  one  who  does  (charati}  a  blamable  action.     If  the  word  he 
a  designation  of  the  god,  it  will  mean  '  where  does  he  not  go  ? '     '  Girishthah '  means 
'abiding  in  the  mountains;'  fpr  giri  means  'mountain.'"  ....  The  author  then 
gives  various  etymologies  of  tht* word parvata,  "mountain,"  one  of  which  is  that  it 
is  derived  from  parvan,  "  a  joint " ;  and  then  proceeds :  "  From  this  sense  is  derived 
another  (owing  to  the  idea  of  joint  being  common  to  both),  viz.,  that  of  'abiding  in 
the  clouds,'  for  a  cloud  also  is  called  giri  for  the  same  reason."     See  Roth's  Illusi 
trations  of  the  Xirukta,  p.  17.     The  same  comparison,  mrigo  na  bhlmah  kucharo  gi- 
rishthah, is  applied  to  Indra  in  R.  V.,  x.  180,  2  (  =  S.  V.,  ii.  1223,  and  A.  V.  7,  84,  3). 
Bbhtlingk  and  Roth,  s,  v.,  think  the  word  Kuchara,  may  signify  "  slowly-moving," 
"  slinking."     The  word  mriga  is  applied  to  Varuna  in  R.  V.»vii.  87,  6. 

19  Urugayasya=.prithu-gamanasya  adhikxstuter  va. — Sayana  on  R.  V.  iii.  6,  4. 
Urugayasya=mahagateh. — Mr.  ii.  7.  J 


70         SAYANA'S  EXPLANATION  OF  "PARTHIYANI  RAJALiSI. 

honey,  imperishable,  gladden  us,. with  food;  who  alone  hath  triply 
sustained  the  universe,  the  earth,  and  the  sky,  [yea]  all  the  worlds. 
5.  May  I  attain  to  that  beloved  heaven  of  his,  where  men  devoted  to 
the  gods  rejoice  ;  for  (such  a  friend  is  he)  there  is  a  spring  of  honey  in 
the  highest  abode  of  the  wide-stepping  Vishnu.  6.  "We  yearn  to  attain 
to  those  abodes  of  you  twain,  where  the  many-horned  and  swiftly- 
moving  cows  abide.  Here  that  supreme  abode  of  the  wide-stepping, 
vigorous  [god]  shines  intensely  forth." 

I  shall  quote  a  portion  of  the  explanation  Sayana  gives  of  the  words 
pdrthivdni  rajumsi,  in  the  first  verse  of  the' preceding  hymn :  Yo  Vishnuh 
pdrthivdni  prithwi-sambandhmi  rajdmsi ranjandtmakdni  kshity-ddi-loka- 
traydlhimdniny  Agni-  Vdyv-JLtiitya-rupdni  rajdmsi  vimame  viseshena 
nirmame  \  atra  trayo  lokdh  api  prithivl-salda-vdchydh  \  tathd  cha  man- 
trdntaram  (R.  V.  i.  108,  3\t' y\id  Indrdgnl  avamasydm  prithivydm  ma- 
dhyamasydm  paramasydm  uta  stha1  iti  \  Taittirlye  '#)i  ( yo  *syum  prithi- 
vydm  asy  dyusha  ity  upakramya  'yo  dvitlyasydm  tritlyasydm  prithivydm'1 
iti  |  tasmdl  loJtatrayasya  privithl-salda-vdchyatvam  |  .  .  .  .  yadvd  yo 
Vishnuh  pdrthivdni  prithivl-samlandhlni  rajumsi  adhastana-sapta-lokdn 
vimame  ('....  rajah-sabdo  lokah-vdchl  '  lokdh  rajdmsy  uchyante'  iti 
Ydskenoktatvdt  |  .  .  .  .  athavd  pdrthivdni  prithivl-nimittakdni  rajdmsi 
lokdn  vimame  \  Ihur-ddi-loka-trayam  ity  arthdh  \  bhumydm  uparjita- 
kdrma-lhogdrthatvdd  ita/ra-lokdndm  tat-kdranatvam  \ 

"  [The  meaning  is],  Yishnu  who  formed, — especially  constructed, — 
the  .terrestrial  [regions];  i.e.,  those  connected  with  prithivl  (the  earth), 
— the  regions  (rajdmsi], — the  things  whose  nature  is  to  delight  (ranja- 
ndtmakdni},— existing  in  the  form  of  Agni,  Yayu,  and  Aditya,  who 
represent  £he  three  worlds,  the  earth,  etc.  Here  all  the  three  worlds 
are  intended  to  be  designated  by  the  term  prittyvl.  Thus  another 
text  [R.  Y.  i.  108,  9]  says:  '  Whether,  Indra  and  Agni,  ye  are  in  the 
lowest  world  (prithivi),  in  the  middle  [wo^fl],  or  in  the  highest,'  etc. 
In  the  Taittirlya  also,  [we  have  the  words]  beginning  with  '  thou  who 
,with  thy  life  art  in  this  world,'  etc. ;  [and  proceeding]  '  who  in  the 
second,  or  third  world,'  etc.  Hence  the  three  woVlds  ai*a  intended  to 
be  signified  by  the  word  prithivl.  .  .  .  Or,  [the'meaning  may  be],  the 
Vishnu  who  formed  the  terrestrial  [regions],  the  regions  connected  with 
the  earth,  the  seven  worlds  benl^th  the  earth.  The  term  rajas  denotes 
a  world,  since  Yaska  srfys  '  worlds  are  called  rajdmsi.'  ....  Or  [the 


ml 


EXPLANATION  OF  EIGVEDA  i.  154.  71 

sense  may  be],  he  made  the  terrestrial  regions,  the  worlds  caused  by 
the  earth,  i.e.  the  three  worlds,  the  earth  and  the  others.  For  as  the 
other  worlds  are  destined  to  be  enjoyed  as  the  rewards  of  merit  acquired 
on  earth,  the  latter  is  the  cause  of  the  former." 

The  following  is  the  passage  of  the  Mrukta,  iv.  19,  referred  to  by 
Silyana,  which  gives  the  meanings  of  rajas:  Rajo  rajateh  \jyotih  rajah 
uchyate  \  udakam  rajah  uchyate  \  lokdh  rajdmsy  uchyante  \  asrigm-ahanl 
rajasl  uchyete  \  'rajdmsi  chitrdh  vicharanti  tanyavah'  Uy  api  nigamo 
bhavati  \ 

"  Rajas  is  derived  from  tht»  root  raj.  Light  Is  called  rajas.  "Water 
is  called  rajas.  The  worlds  are  called  rajdmsi.  [Blood  and  day,  or] 
day  and  night,  are  called  rajasl.  There,is  also  a  test  (R.  V.  v.  63,  5), 
'Brilliant  and  resounding  [the  Maruts]  sweep  over  the  worlds.'" — See 
also  Nir.  x.  44,  and  xii.  23,  and  R.  V.  i*  90,  7. 

In  R,.  V.  i.  164,  6,  mention  is  made  of  six  worlds  (rdjdmsi} :  vi  yas 
tastambha  shal  imd  rajamsi,  "  who  established  these  six  worlds." 

The  verb  vimame  cannot,  I  think,  have  the  meaning,  which  the  com- 
mentator assigns  to  it,  of  "  constructing."  It  occurs  not  only  in  verse  1, 
of  the  hymn  before  us,  but  in  verse  3  also,  where  it  jnust  have  the  sense 
of  "  measuring,"  or  "traversing," 21  as  it  could  not  fitly  be  said  of  Yishim 
that  he  constructed  the  firmament  with  three  steps.  The  phrase  rajaso 
vimdnah,  "measurer  of  the  world,"  occurs  in  R.  V.  x.  121,  5  (above 
p.  16),  and  in  R.  V.  x.  139,  5,  quoted  in  the  third  volume  of  this  work, 
p.  260.  In  R.  Y.  i.  50,  7,  the  participle  vimimdnah  seems  to  have  the 
same  sense :  vi  dydm  eshi  rajas  prithv  aha  mimdno  aktubhih  I  pasyan 
janmdni  surya  \  "Sun,  thou  traversest  the  sky,  measuring  the  broad 
space  (rajas],  and  the  days,  with  thy  rays,22  beholding  created  things." 

The  phrase  rajaso  vimdnah  occurs  also  in  R.  Y.  iii.  26,  7  (  =  Yaj. 
S.  18,  66),  where  Agni  says  of  himself  that  he  is  arkas  tridhdtuh  rajaso 
vimdnah23  \  "the  threefold  light,  the  measurer  of  the  world,"  which 
the  commentator  explains  thus  :  tredhd  dtmdnam  vibhajya  tatra  Vdyv- 

dtmand  rajaso  'ntarikshasya  vimdno  vimdtd  'dhishthdta  \mi  \   "Triply 

• 

>  at 

20  Roth  conjectures  that  the  word  asrik  here  is  jpurious. — Illust.  of  Nir.,  p.  46. 

21  See  Bohtlingk  and  Roth  s.  v.  mu-\-vi. 

22  The  word  aktubhih  is  rendered  "nights"  by  Yaska  in  his  explanation  of  this 
passage,  Nir.  xii.  23,  and  by  the  commentator ;  bu^  the  k'tter  explains  the  same 
word  by  rasmibhih,  "rays,"  in  his  annotation  on  R.  V.  i.  94,  5. 

23  This  verse  is  explained  in  a  spiritual  sense  in  NirulAa  Paris'ishta  ii.  1. 


72  FURTHER  ILLUSTRATIONS 

dividing  myself,  I  am,  in  the  character  of  Yayu,  he  who  ahides  in  the 
atmosphere." 

Compare,  with  the  phrase  before  us,  Habakkak  iii.  6:  "He  stood 
and  measured  the  earth,"  etc. 

I  shall  adduce  one  other  passage  R.  Y.  v.  81,  3  (=Yaj.  S.  11,  6),  in 
which  the  same  phrase  occurs,  where  this  function  of  measuring  the 
world  is  ascribed  to  Savitri  (the  sun) :  Yasya  prayunam  anv  anye  id 
yayur  devdh  devasya  mahimdnam  ojasd  \  yah  pdrthivdni  vimame  sa  etaso 
rajdmsi  devah  Savitd  mahitvand  \  "  He,  the  god  whose  course  and 
whose  might  the  other  gods  have  followed  with  vigour,  who  measured 
[or  traversed]  the  terrestrial  regions  by  his  power,  this  god  Savitri 
is  a  steed."  , 

c 

This  text  is  quoted  and  commented  lon  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana, 
6,  3,  1,  18:  '  Yasya  pray anan.  anv  anye  id  yayur'  iti  \  Prdjdpatir  vai 
etad  agre  karma  alcarot  \  tat  tato  devuh  akurvan  '  devah  devasya  mahimd- 
nam  ojasd'  iti  \  yajnovaimahimd  \  devdh devasya yajnam  mryam  "  ojasd" 
ity  etad  \  l  yah  pdrthivdni  vimame  sa  etasah'  iti  \  yad  vai  kincha  asydm 
tat  pdrthivam  tad  esha  sarvam  vimimlte  \  rasmiohir  hy  enad  aWiyavatanoti  \ 
'rajdmsi  devah  Sa^itd  mahitvana1  iti  \  ime  vai  lokdh  rajumsi  \  asdv 
Adityo  devah  Savita  \  tan  esha  mahimnd  vimimlte  \  '"Whose  course 
the  other  gods  have  followed.'  Prajapati  formerly  performed  this  rite. 
The  gods  afterwards  did  it,  [according  to  the  words]  '  the  gods  [followed] 
his  [display  of]  power  with  vigour.'  Power  means  sacrifice.  This, 
[then,  is  said,  that]  the  gods  [followed]  the  sacrifice,  the  energy,  of  the 
god  with  vigour.  '  He  who  measured  out  the  terrestrial  [regions]  is  a 
steed.'  Whatever  is  on  this  [earth]  is  terrestrial.  All  this-  he  measures 
out :  for  he  stretches  over  [all]  this  with  his  rays.  '  The  god  Savitri 
[measured  out]  the  regions  by  his  power.'  These  worlds  are  the  regions : 
that  Aditya  (sun)  is  the  god  Savitri.  He  measures  them  out  by  his 
power."  « 

The  author  of  the  Bhagavata  Purana  introduces  the  words  parthivani 
vimame  rajdmsi,  with  a  part  of  R.  Y.  vii.  99,  2,  at  the  close  of  his  ac- 
count of  the  Dwarf  incarnation  of  Yishnu,  assigning  to  them,  however 
(whether  ignorantly,  or  knowingly),  a  different  meaning  from  that 
which  they  have  in  the  hymn, — Bhag.  Pur.  viii.  23,  29  :  Pdram  ma- 
himnah  uru-viJcramato grii^ano  y(.hpdrthivdni  vimame  sa  rajdmsi  martyah\ 
Jcim  jdyamdnah  utajdtah  upaiti  martyah  ity  aha  mantradrig  rishih  puru- 


HYMN  CLIV.  Of  THE  FIRST  BOOK  OF  THE  EIGVEDA.  73 

shasya  yasya  \  "The  mortal  who  celebrates  the  utmost  limits  of  this  wide- 
striding  (Vishnu's)  greatness,  computes  the  [particles  of  the]  dust  of  the ' 
earth.    Can  'the  mortal  who  is  heing  born,  or  has  been  born,'  attain  to 
it?     Thus  speaks  the  rishi  who  saw  a  hymn  regarding  this  Purusha." 

This  verse  is  explained  by  the  commentator  thus :  Uru  lahu  vikra- 
mato  Vishnon  mahimnah  pdram  yo  grindno  bhavati  sa  martyah  pdr- 
thivdni  rajdmsy  api  vimame  ganitavdn  \  yathd  pdrthiva-paramdnu-gana- 
nam  asakyam  tathd  Vishnor  guna-gananam  asaTcyam  ity  arthah  \  tathd 
cha  mantro  '  Vishnor  nu  Team  viryani*  iti  \  etad  eva  mantrdntardrtham 
suchayann  aha  yasya  purusha&ya  purna-mahimnah  pdram  mantra-drig 
rishir  Vasishthah  ity  evam  aha  \  katham  \  kim  jdyamdno  jdto  vd  upaiti 
na  ko1  pi  iti  vadann  anantatvena  eva  aha*ity  arthah  \  tathd  cha  mantro 
'  na  te  Vishno  jdyamdno  na  jdto*  (leva,  mahimnah  param  antam  dpa1  iti  \ 
"The  mortal  who  celebrates  the  utmost* limits  of  the  greatness  of  the 
wide-striding  Yishnu,  has  computed  also  the  particles  of  the  dust  of 
the  earth.  The  meaning  is,  as  the  computation  of  the  atoms  of  the 
earth  is  impossible,  so  also  the  enumeration  of  Yishnu' s  qualities  is 
impossible.  Thus  a  hymn  (R.  V.  1,  154)  says:  '  I  declare  the  heroic 
deeds  of  Yishnu,'  etc.  Alluding  to  the  sense  of  another  versd  (R.  Y. 
vii.  99,  2),  he  says  the  same  thing  in  these  words:  'regarding  the 
utmost  limit  of  the  full  greatness  of  which  Purusha,  Yasishtha,  the 
seer  of  the  hymn,  thus  speaks : '  How  ?  '  Can  any  man  being  born, 
or  already  born,  attain  it  ? '  No  one.  By  this  expression  he  in- 
timates its  infinitude.  Thus  the  hymn  says :  No  one  who  is  being 
born,  or  has  been  born,  has  attained,  0  divine  Yishnu,  to"  the  furthest 
limit  of  thy  greatness." 

The  sixth  verse  of  the  hymn  before  us  is  thus  commented  on  in  the 
Nirukta,  ii.  6,  7  :  Sarve  'pi  rasmayo  gdvah  uchyante  \  .  .  .  tdni  vdm 
vdstuni  kdmaydmahe  gamandya  yatra  gdvo  Ihuri-sringdh  .  .  .  aydso 
'yandh  \  tatra  tad  urugdyqsya  Vishnor  mahdgateh  paramam  padam 
pardrdhyastham  avalhdti  Ihuri  \  "  All  rays  are  called  gdvah."  Then, 
after  quoting  the  verse,  the  author  proceeds  to  explain  it:  ""We  desire 
to  attain  to  those  regions  of  you  two,  where  are  the  many-horned  cows, 
.  .  .  the  moving.  There*the  highest  abode,  situated  in  the  loftiest  sphere, 
of  that  wide-stepping,  large-pacing,  Yishnu  shines  forth  brightly." 

The  verse  is  rendered  thus,  by  R,oth'>(Illu3trations  of  Nir.,  p.  19) : 
"  May  we  arrive  at  your  abodes,  where  the  many-horned,  moving, 


74     HYMX  ADDRESSED  TO  INDKA  AND  VISHNU  CONJOINTLY. 

cattle  are ;  for  thence  shines  brilliantly  down  the  highest  place  of  the 
far-striding  Showerer."  Roth  then  proceeds  to  remark  :  "  This  verse 
occurs  in  a  hymn  to  Yishnu ;  consequently  the  dual  vdm  ['  of  you 
two']  cannot  refer  to  the  deity  of  the  hymn.  Durga  meets  the  diffi- 
culty, as  the  commentators  frequently  do  with  inconvenient  duals,  by 
saying  vam  iti  dampdtl  abhipretya,  etc.  ['  vam  refers  to- the  husband 
and  his  wife.']  But  here  we  have  rather  a  proof  of  the  fact  that,  in 
the  arrangement  of  the  Yeda,  many  verses  have  been  inserted  in  wrong 
places.  The  verse  is  addressed  to  Mitra  and  Yaruna ;  and,  perhaps, 
belonged  to  one  of  the  hymns  to  those"  two  gods  which  immediately 
precede  this  in  the  Sanhita.  The  verse  has  been  introduced  into  the 
wrong  place  because  YishrtU'  is  referred  to  in  it.  Compare  verse  3. 
The  inconvenient  reading  has  been  already  altered  in  the  Yajasaneyi 
Sanhita  (6,  3),"  which,  insttad  of  td  vam  vdstuny  usmasi  gamadhyai, 
"  we  desire  to  go  to  these  abodes  of  you  two,"  etc.,  reads,  yd  te  dhd- 
mdny  usmasi,  etc.,  "to  which  realms  of  thine  we  desire,"  etc.,  etc. 
In  the  next  hymn  Indra  and  Yishnu  are  jointly  extolled  : 
R.  V.  i.  155. — Pro,  vah  pdntamu  andhaso  dhiydyate  make  surdya 
Vishnave  cha  archata  \  yd  sdnuni  parvatdndm  addlhyd  malias  tasthatur 
arvateva  sddhund  \  2.  Tvesham  ittlid  samaranam™  iimlvator  Jndra- 
Vislinu  suta-pdh  vam  urushyati  \  yd  martydya  partidhlyamdnam  it  kri- 
sdnor  astur  asandm  urusJiyathah  \  3.  Tah  1m  vardhanti  malii  asya  paufn- 
syaih  ni  mdtard  nayati  retase  bhuje  \  dadhdti  putro  avaram  par  am  pitur 
ndma  tritlyam  adhi  rochane  dlvah  \  4.  Tat  tad  id  asya  paumsyam  gri- 
nlmasi  inasy'a  trdtur  avrikasya  mllhushah  \  yah  pdrthivdni  tribhir  id 
vigdmalhir  uru  kramishtorugdydya  jlva&e  \  5.  Dve  id  asya  kramane 
svardrisq  abhikhydya  martyo  bhuranyati  \  tritlyam  asya  nakir  d  da- 
dharshati  vayas  chana  patayantah  patatrinah  \  6.  Chaturbhih  sdkam 
navatincha  numabhis  chakram  na  vrittam  vyatln  avlvipat  \  brihachchha- 
rlro  vimimdnah  rikvabhir  yuvd  'kumdrah  fit  ati  eti  dhavam  \ 

'*  Sing  praises  to  the  great  hero  (Indra),  who  desires  the  draught  of 
your  soma,  and  to  Yishnu,  who  both  swiftly  rose  invincible,  to  the 
summit  of  the  [aerial]  mountains,  as  if  [carried  fey]  an  excellent  steed. 
2.  Indra  and  Yishnu,  the  d'rinker  of  the  libati<5h  escapes  the  assault,  so 
fierce,  of  you  two  who  are  violent, — who'  avert  from  the  [pious] 

c         f 

S1  Pantam—pamya^n. — Nir.  vii.  25. 

35  Samaranam  s.  =sangrama-nama. — Nigh.  2,  17. 


1    HYMN  TO  VISHNU.  75 

mortal  that  which  is  aimed  at  him, — the  bolt  of  the  archer  Krisanu. 
3.  These  [libations,  according  to  Sayana]  augment  his  virility ;  he  con- 
ducts the  parents  (heaven  and  earth)  to  receive  the  fertilizing  seed ; 
the  son  has  the  inferior  name ;  the  superior  belongs  to  the  father ;  the 
third  is  above  the  light  of  heaven.  4.  "We  celebrate  this  virility  of 
him,  the  strong,  the  deliverer,  the  innoxious,  the  bountiful,  who  with 
three  steps  traversed36  far  and  wide  the  mundane  regions,  for  the  sake 
of  [granting  us]  a  prolonged  (lit.  wide-stepping)  existence.27  5.  A 
mortal  is  agitated  when  contemplating  two  of  the  steps  of  this  heavenly 
[deity]  ;  but  no  one  dares  to  atte*mpt  his  third  step,27*  not  even  the  soar- 
ing, winged  birds.  6.  With  four  and  ninety  names,  he  has  impelled 
his  steeds,  like  a  rolling  wheel.  Accoutre*!  Jby  his  encomiasts,  vast  in 
body,  the  youthful,  full-grown  [deity],  advances  to  the  combat." 

R.  V.  1,  156. — Bhava  mitro  na  sevyo 'ghrfidsutir  vibhuta-dyumnah 
evaydh  u  saprathdh  \  adha  te  Vishno  vidushd  chid  ardhyah  stomo  yajnascha 
rddhyo  havishmatd  \  2.  Yah  purvydya  vedhase  navlyase  sumajjdnaye 
Vishnave  daddsati  \  yo  jdtam  asya  mahato  mahi  Cravat  sa  id  u  sravobhir 
yujyarn  chid  abhi  asat  \  3.  Tarn  u  stotdrah  purvyaih  yathd  vidm  ritasya 
garbham  janushd  pipartana  \  a  asya  jdnanto  ndma  chid  vivaktana  mahas 
te  Vishno  sumatim  bhajdmahe  \  4.  Tarn  asya  rdjd  Varunas  tarn  Asvind 
kratiun  sachanta  mdrutasya  vedhasah  \  dddhdra  daksham  uttamam  ahar- 
mdaiii  vrajam  cha  Vishnur  sakhivdn  apornute  \  5.  A  yo  vivdya  sacha- 
thdya  daivyah  Indrdya  Vishnuh  sulcrite  sukrittarah  \  vedhdh  ajinvat  tri- 
shadhasthah  art/am  ritasya  bhdge  yajamdndm  d  bhajat  \ 

"Be  to  us  beneficent  like  a  friend,  worshipped  with  butter,  greatly 
renowned,  swiftly-moving,  broadly  diffused.  Truly,  Vishnu,  thy 
praise  is  to  be  celebrated  by  the  sage,  and  sacrifice  is  to  be  performed 
to  thee  by  the  worshipper.  2.  He  who  worships  Yishnu,  the  ancient, 
the  disposer  [or  the  wise],  the  recent,  the  [god]  with  the  noble 
spouse/8 — he  who  extols  the\nature  of  this  mighty  Being,  shall  excel 

28  Compare  R.  V.  i.  22,  17,  18  (above,  p.  63,  f.),  and  E.  V.  i.  154,  1,  3  (p.  69). 

27  Compare  R.  V,  vi.  69^5  (below). 

21 '  See  R.  V.  vii.  99,  1,  be^ow.  , 

28  Sayana  gives  two  explanations  of  the  word  sumaj-jani.     The  first  makes  it 
svayam  evotpannaya,  "  born  by  his  own  power  "  (in  proof  of  which  sense  he  quotes 
Nir.   vi.   22:    Snyiat  svayam    ity   arthah  \    " surfeit   ra^ns    svbyam,    self").      The 
second  meaning  is  thus  stated:    Sutaram  madfiyati  iti  sumat  \   tadrisl jaya  yasya 
sa   .  .  .  .    |  tasmai   sarva-jagan-madana-slla-S'rl-pataye  f"su-mat  means  'greatly 


76  TEXTS  OF  THE  BIGVEDA  IN 'WHICH  „ 

his  friend29  in  renown.  3.  Encomiasts,  rsatisfy  [with  worship],  as  ye 
know  how  to  do,  him  who,  by  his  nature,  is  the  primeval  source  of 
sacred  rites.  Knowing  his  name  declare,  '  Vishnu,  we  enjoy  the  good 
will  of  thee,  the  mighty  one.'  4.  King  Varuna  and  the  Asvins  have 
done  hom'age  to  the  power  of  this  ruler  [or  wise  god]  who  is  attended 
by  the  Maruts.  Vishnu  possesses  excellent  wisdom,  which  knows  the 
proper  day;30  and  with  his  friends,  opens  up  the  cloud.  5.  The  divine 
Vishnu,  who  has  hastened  to  seek  companionship  with  the  beneficent 
Indra,  [himself]  more  beneficent, — this  wise  [god],  occupying  three 
stations,  has  gratified  the  Arya,  and  renders  the  worshipper  a  sharer 
in  the  sacred  ceremony." 

R.  V.  i.  164,  36  (A.  V.  P,  10,  17  ;  Mr.  Par.  ii.  1\}.—Sapta  ardha- 
garlhdh  bhuvanasya  reto  Vishnos  tishthanli  pradisd  vidharmani  \  te 
dhitibhir  manasd  te  vipasciMah  paribhuvah  pari  bhavanti  visvatah  \ 
"  Seven  embryos,  the  prolific  sources  of  the  world,  abide  by  the  com- 
mand of  Vishnu  in  the  function  of  supporting  [the  universe].  They 
by  thought,  and  by  mind,  they  intelligent,  embracing,  comprehend  all 
things.'^ 

I  <io  not  attempt  any  explanation  of  this  obscure  and  mystical 
utterance. 

R.  V.  i.  186,  10. — Pro  Asvinav  a/case  Tcrinudhvam  pra  Pushanam 
svatavaso  hi  santi  \  advesho  Vishnur  Vdtah  Ribhukshdh  ackka  sumndya 
vavritlya  devdn  \  "Dispose  the  Asvins,  dispose  Pushan,  to  succour  us, 
for  they  have  power  in  themselves.  Vishnu  is  free  from  malice,  and  so 
is  Vata  (Vayu)  and  Eibhukshan.  May  I  incline  the  gods  to  be  favourable 
to  us." 

II.  V.  ii.  1,  3. — Team  Ague  Indro  vrishabhah  satdm  asi  tvam  Vishnur 

gladdening.'  Sumaj-jani  then  signifies  '  one  who  has  such  a  wife.'  The  phrase 
will  thus  mean,  '  to  the  lord  of  S'ri,  whose  nature^  it  is  to  gladden  the  world. ' "  Dr. 
Aufrecht  thinks  that  jani  has  always  the  sense«of  wife,  and  supposes  the  wife  here 
alluded  to  to  be  the  world.  Prof.  Both,  Illust.  of  Nir.,  p.  90,  supposes  sumat  to  be 
derived  from  su,  and  to  mean  "  easily,"  "  gladly." 

29  Compare  the  words  yujyo  va  saTcha  va  in  R.  V.  ii.  28,   10,  where  yujya  is 
explained  by  Sayana  as=yojana-samarthah  pitradir  va  ;  and  R.  V.  i.  22,  19,  where 
the  same  word  yujya  is  said  to  be  equivalent  to  anuku'a,  "friendly."     Compare  also 
ayuja  in  R.  V.  viii.  51,2.  • 

30  See  the  interpretation  of  the  word  aharvid  given  by  Sayana  on  R.  V.  i.  2,  2. 
In  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Dictionary  the  word  is  explained  as  signifying   "fcng 
known."  * 


VISHNU  IS  MENTIONED.  77 

urugdyo  namasyah  \  tvam  brahttid  rayivid,  Brahmanaspate  tvam  vidhartah 
sachase  purandhyd  \  "Thou,  Agni,  art  Indra,  most  energetic  of  heroes; 
thou  art  Vishnu,  the  wide-stepping,  the  adorable ;  thou,  Brahmanaspati, 
art  a  priest,  possessor  of  wealth ;  thou,  sustainer,  art  associated  with 
sacred  wisdom." 

B..V.  ii.  22, .1  (S.Y.  i.  457). — Trikadrukeshu  mahisho  yavdsiram  tuvi- 
sushmas  tripat  somam  apibad  Vishnund  sutam  yathd  \asat  \  sa  Im  ma- 
mdda  mahi  karma  kartave  mahdm  urum  sa  enam  saschad  devo  devam 
satyam  Indram  satyah  Induh  \  "  The  great  [Indra],  of  mighty  force, 
satiating  himself,  has  drunk  the'soma,  mixed  with  barley-meal,  poured 
forth  by  Vishnu  at  the  Trikadruka  ceremony,  as  much  as  he  desired. 
He  [Soma]  has  stimulated  the  great  and  yagt  [god,  Indra,]  to  achieve 
mighty  acts.  He,  the  god,  the  true  Indu  (Soma),  has  attended  him, 
the  god,  the  true  Indra."  » 

R.V.  iii.  6,  4. — Mahdn  sadhasthe  dhruve  a  nishatto  antar  dydvd  ma- 
Jiine  haryamdnah  \  dskre  sapatni  ajare  amrikte  sabardughe  urugdyasya31 
dhenu  \  "  The  great  [god,  Agni,]  is  seated  in  his  firm  abode,  beloved, 
between  the  mighty  heaven  and  earth, — those  two  cows,  joint.wives  of 
the  wide-stepping  [god],  united,  undecaying,  inviolable,  dispensers  of 
water."  Agni  himself  may  be  the  "  wide-stepping  god"  intended  here. 

B.  V.  iii.  54,  14. —  Vishnum  stomdsah  puru-dasmam  arhdh  bhagasyeva 
kdrino  ydmani  gman  \  urukramah  kakuho  yasya  purvlr  na  mardhanti 
yuvatayo  janitrlh  \  "  Our  hymns  and  praises  have  proceeded  to  Vishnu, 
the  worker  of  many  wonders,  like  bards  proceeding  in  the  train  of  their 
lord.  He  is  the  wide-stepping,  the  exalted,  whose  [will]  the  numerous, 
youthful,  mothers  do  not  disregard." 

K.  V.  iii.  55,  10. —  Vishnur  gopdh™  paramam  pdti  pdthahl3  priyd 
dhdmdni  amritd  dadhdnah  \  Agnis  td  visvd  bhuvandni  veda  mahad 
devdndm  asuratvam  ekam  \  "  Vishnu,  a  protector,  preserves  the  highest 
heaven,  sustaining  the  dear,3*jmdecaying  regions.  Agni  knows  all  these 
worlds :  great  and  incomparable  is  the  divine  nature  of  the  gods." 

31  Prithugamanasya  adhika-stuter  vci ;    Sayana,  who   names  Agni  as  the  god ; 
though  be  makes  Leaven  afld  earth  to  be  the  wives  of  the  sun. 

32  Compare  R.  V.,  i.  22,  II.     The  word  Vishnu  iS  here  regarded  by  the  commen- 
tator as  an  epithet  of  Agni,  and  rendered  by  "pervading."     The  hymn  is,  however, 
according  to  the  Anukramanika,  one  addressed  to  all  the  gods.  i 

33  Pathah  occurs  also  in  R.  V.  i.  154,  5.     Se^  \bove.' 

34  Or,  "vast."     The  commentator  renders  the  word priya  by  aparimita,  "unmea- 
sured," in  his  note  on  R.  V.  iii.  32,  7. 


78         TEXTS  OF  THE  BIGVEDA  AND  TAITTI&IYA  SANHITA 

R.  V.  iv.  2,  4. — Aryamanam  Varunam  Mitram  eshdm  Indrd-  Vishnu 
Maruto  Asvind  uta  \  su-asvo  Agne  su-rathah  sti-rddhah  d  id  u-vaJia  su- 
Tiavishe  jandya  \  "Agni,  [do  thou,  who  hast]  beautiful  steeds,  a  beau- 
tiful car,  and  [bestowest]  rich  gifts,  bring  to  the  pious  worshipper 
from  among  these  [gods],  Aryaman,  Varuna,  Mitra,  Indra  and  Vishnu, 
the  Maruts,  and  the  Asvins  "  (comp.  R.  V.  vii.  39,  5,  below). 

R.V.  iv.  3,  7. — KatJia  make  pushtim-lhardya  Pushne  had  Rudrdyu 
sumakhaya  havir-de  \  lead  Vishnave  uru-gdydya  reto3s  Iravah  lead  Agne 
S'arave  Irihatyai  \  "Why,  Agni,  [shouldst  thou  declare  our  sin]  to 
the  great  supplier  of  nourishment,  Push^n  ?  why  to  Rudra,  the  vigorous, 
the  giver  of  oblations  ?  why  shouldst  thou  declare  our  sin  to  the  wide- 
stepping  Vishnu?  why  to  the  great  S'aru  (Nirriti?)." 

R.V.  iv.  18,  11. —  Uta  mdtd  mahisham  anvavenad  ami  tvd  jahati  putra 
devdh  |  Atha  abravid  Vritrxn  Indro  hanishyan  sakhe  Vishno  vitaram 
viliramasva  \  "  And  his  mother  sought  to  draw  back  the  mighty  [Indra], 
saying,  '  My  son,  those  gods  forsake  thee.'  Then  Indra,  being  about 
to  slay  Vritra,  said,  'Friend  Vishnu,  do  thou  stride  vastly.'" 

The  last  words  of  this  verse  form  the  commencement  of  the  12th 
verse  of  the  89th  hymn  of  the  8th  Mandala,  which  I  shall  introduce 
here. 

11.  V.  viii.  89,  12. — SaTcJie  Vishno  vitaram  vikramasva  dyaur  dehi 
lokam  vajrdya  mshkabhe  \  handva  Vritram  rinachdva  sindhun  Tndrdsya 
yantu  prasave  msrishtdh  \  "  ' Friend  Vishnu,  stride  vastly;'  Sky,  give 
room  for  the  thunderbolt  to  descend ;  let  us  slay  Vritra,  and  let  loose 
the  waters;  let  them,  when  released,  flow  by  the  impulse  of  Indra."36 

35  Dr.  Aufrecht  suggests  that  the  original  reading  here  may  have  been  repas  =agas, 
"sin."     But  as  the  text  stands  he  would  connect  retas  /with  sarave,  so  as  to  give 
the  sense,  "our  sin   (understood),  which  is  the  occasion  for  the  great   arrow   of 
destruction."     Bb'htlingk  and  Roth  render  retas  by  "libation." 

36  The  Taittiriya  Sanhita,  ii.  4,  12,  2,  has  the  following  story  about  Indra  and 
Vishnu:   Tasmad  Indro  'bibhed  api  Tvashta  \  Twshta  tasmai  vajram  asinchat  \  tapo 
vai  sa  vajrah  aslt  \  tarn  udyantum  na  asaknot  \  atha  vai  tarhi  Vislmur  anya  devata 
aslt  |  so  Abravid  "  Vishnav  ehi  idam  aharishfjavo  yena  ayam  idam  "  iti  \  sa  VisJmits 
tredha  atmcmam  mnyadhatta,  prithivyaih  tritTyam  antarikshe  tritlyam  divi  tritlyam  \ 
abhiparyavartad  hy  abibhct  \  yat  prithivyaih  tritlyam  asit  tena  jfndro  vajram  u&a- 
yachhad    Vishnv-anushthitah  \  so   'bravld  "ma   me  frahah  \  asti  vai  idam  mnyi 
vlryam  \  tat  te  pradasyami  "  iti  \  tad  asmai prayachJwt  \  tat  pratyagrihnat  \  "  adhah 
ma"  iti  tad  Vishnave  'tiprayachhat  \  tad  Vishnuh  pratyagrihnad  " asmiisv  Indrah 
indriyaih  dadhatv"  iti  \  yaa  antankfhe  tritlyam  aslt  tena  Indro  vajram  iidayachhad 
Vishnv-anushthitah  \  so  'travld  "ma  me  prahah  \  asti  vai  idam  tnayi  vlryam  \  tat 


RELATING  TO  INDRA  AND  VISHXU.  79 

R.  Y.  iv.  55,  4. —  Vi  Aryamd  Vanigas  cheti  panthdm  isJias-patih  su- 
vitam  gdtum  Agnih  \  Indrd-  Vishnu  nri-vad  u  shu  stavdnd  sarma  no  yan- 
tam  amavad  varutham  \  '"  Aryaman  and  Yaruna  know  the  path;  so  too 
Agni,  the  lord  of  strength  [knows]  a  prosperous  road.  Indra  and 
Yishnu,  when  ye  are  lauded,  according  to  human  ability,  bestow  on  us 
prosperity  and  strong  protection." 

R.Y.  v.  3,  1-3. — Tvam  Agne  Varunojdya&e  yat  tvam  Mitro  bhavasi 
yat  samiddah  \  tve  visve  sahasas-putra  devds  tvam  Indro  ddsmhe  mart- 

te  pradasyami''  id  \  tad  asmai  prayachhat  \  tat  pratyagritindt  \  "dvir  ma  adhah" 
iti  tad  Vishnave  atiprayachhat  \  tad  Vishnuh  pratyagrihnad  "asmasv  Indrah  indriyam 
dadhatv"  iti  \  yad  divi  tritlyam  aslt  tena  Indro  vajram  udayachhad  Vishnv-anu- 
shthitah  \  so  'bravld  ma  me  prahah  \  yena  ahatn,  idam  asmi  "tat  te  pradasyami" 
iti  |  "tvl"  ity  abravlt  \  " sandham  £;>  sandadhavdhai  \  tvam  eva  pravisani"  iti\ 
"  yan  mam  pravis'eh  kim  ma  bhunjyah  "  ity  abravlt  \  "  tvam  eva  indhlya  tava  bhogaya 
tvam  praviseyam"  ity  abravlt  \  tarn  Vritrah  pr^vis'at  \  udaram  vai  Vritrah  \  kshut 
khalu  vai  manushyasya  bhratrivyah  \  yah  evaTn  veda  hanti  kshudham  bhratrivyam  \ 
tad  asmai  prayachhat  \  tat  pratyagrihnat  \  "  trir  ma  'dhah "  iti  tad  Vishnave 
'tiprayachhat  \  tad  Vishnuh  pratyagrihnad  "asmasv  Indrah  indriyam  dadhatv"  iti\ 
yat  trih  prayachhat  trih  pratyagrihnat  tat  tridhatos  tridhatutvain  \  yad  Vishnitr 
anvatishthata  Vishnave  'tiprayachhat  tasniad  A.indravaishnavam  havir  bhavati\ 
"  Indra  was  afraid  of  him,  as  was  also  Tvashtri.  Tvashtri  moistened  for  him  the 
thunderbolt:  it  was  heat  or  austere-fervour  (tapas).  He  could  not  lift  it.  Now 
there  was  another  deity,  Vishnu.  Indra  said :  '  Come,  Vishnu,  we  two  will  take 
that  wherehy  he  is  this  [which  he  is].'  Vishnu  divided  himself  into  three  parts, 
[placing]  one  on  earth,  a  second  in  the  air,  and  a  third  in  the  sky.  For  he  was 
afraid  of  [Vritra's]  development  (abhiparyavarfat :  yasmad  asya  Vritrasya  abhi- 
paryavartat  sarva-dig-vyapi-rupayah  vriddher  ayam  Indro  'bibhet,  Comm.).  With  the 
third  [of  Vishnu]  which  was  on  the  earth,  Indra  lifted  the  thunderbolt,  followed  by 
Vishnu.  Vritra  said,  '  Do  not  smite  me :  there  is  in  me  this  energy :  that  I  will 
give  to  thee.'  He  gave,  and  Indra  took  it,  and  passed  it  on  to  Vishnu,  [saying,] 
'  Thou  hast  supported  me.'  Vishnu  received  it,  [saying],  '  May  Indra  impart  energy 
to  us.'  Indra  then  lifted  the  thunderbolt  with  the  third  [of  Vishnu]  which  was  in 
the  air,"  etc.,  as  before,  i'  Indra  passed  it  011  to  Vishnu,  saying,  'Thou'hast  twice 
supported  me,'  "  etc.  "  {ndra  then,  followed  by  Vishnu,  lifted  the  thunderbolt  with 
the  third  [of  Vishnu]  which  was  in  the  sky.  Vritra  said,  '  Do  not  smite  me  ;  I  will 
give  thee  that  whereby  I  am  that,[ which  I  am].'  Indra  agreed.  '  Let  us  make  an 
agreement;  let  me  enter  into  thet,*'  [said  Vritra].  'If  thou  enterest  me,  wilt  thou 
eat  me  ? '  [replied  Indra].  '  I  will  kindle  thee ;  1  will  enter  thee  for  thy  enjoyment ' 
[answered  Vritra].  He  accordingly  entered  into  him.  Vritra  is  the  belly.  Hunger 
is  man's  enemy.  He  whojmows  this  slays  his  enemy.  So  Vritra  gave  Indra  [that 
whereby  he  was  what  he  was],  Indra  took  it,  [and  saying,]  '  Thou  hast  thrice 
supported  me,'  passed  it  on* to  Vishnu,"  etc.,  etc.,  as  before.  "  From  the  circum- 
stance that  the  one  god  gav«,  and  the  other  took  [what  was  given],  thrice,  the 
1  tridhiitu '  derives  its  character.  And  from  th£  fact  that  Vishnu  followed  Indra, 
and  the  latter  passed  on  [what  he  had  received]  to  the  former,  there  is  an  oblation 
called  '  Aindravaishnava,'  i.e.  common  to  both  the  gods."  ' 


80  TEXTS  OF  THE  RIGVEDA  RELATING 

ydya  \  2.  Tvam  Aryamd  bhavas\yat  kamndm  ndma  svadhdvan  guhyam 
lilliarshi  \  anjanti  mitram  sudhitam  na  gobhir  yad  dampatl  samanasd 
krinoshi  \  3.  Tava  sriye  Maruto  marjayanta™  Rtidra  yat  tejamina  chdru 
chitram  \  padam  yad  Vishnor  upamam  nidhdyi  tena  pdsi  guhyam  ndma 
gondm  \ 

11  Thou,  Agni,  [art]  Varuna,  when  thou  art  born ;  thou  art  Mitra 
when  thou  art  kindled  :  son  of  strength,  in  thee  [reside]  all  the  gods  ; 
thou  art  Indra  to  the  man  who  sacrifices.  2.  Thou  art  Aryaman  when 
thou,  self-sustaining,  possessest  the  mysterious  name  of  the  maidens. 
Men  anoint  thee,  like  a  benevolent  frienfi,  with  milk,  when  thou  makest 
the  husband  and  wife  to  be  of  one  mind.  3.  For  thy  glory,  Rudra,  [or, 
terrible  Agni],  the  Maruts  iave  adorned  themselves,  such  is  that 

*  JL 

beautiful  and  wondrous  birth  of  thine.*  Through  that  which  has  been 
fixed  as  the  highest  abode  ofr  Vishnu,  thou  possessest  the  mysterious 
name  of  the  cows." 

R.V.  v.  46,  2-4  (=Vaj..S.  33,  48,  49). — Ague  Indra  Varuna  Mitra 
devdh  sardhah  pra  yanta  Mdruta  uta  Vishno  \  ubhd  Ndsatyd  Rudro  adha 
gndh  Pushd  Bhagah  Sarasvatl  jushanta  \  3.  Indrdgrii  Mitrd-  Varuna 
Aditiitf  svah  prithivlm  dydm  Marutah  parvatdn  apah  \  huve  Vishnum 
Pushanam  Brahmanaspatim  Bhagam  nu  samsam  Savitdram  utaye  \ 
4.  Uta  no  Vishnur  uta  Vdto  asridho  dravinoddh  uta  Somo  mayas 
karat  \  uta  Ribhavah  uta  rdye  no  Asvind  uta  Tvashtd  uta  Vilhvd  anu 
mamsate  \ 

2.  "Agni,  Varuna,  Mitra,  ye  gods,  give  us  strength,  and  thou 
Vishnu  with  the  Maruts.  Both  the  Asvins,  Eudra,  and  the  wives  of 
the  deities,  with  Pushan,  Bhaga,  and  Sarasvatl,  are  pleased.  3.  I  invoke 
Indra  and  Agni,  Mitra  and  Varuna,  Aditi,  Heaven,  Earth,  Sky,  the 
Maruts,  the  Mountains,  the  Waters,  Vishnu,  Pushan,  Brahmanaspati ; 
I  praise  Bhaga  and  Savitri,  that  they  may  succour  us.  4.  And  may 
Vishnu,  and  the  Wind,  uninjuring,  and  S^ma,  the  bestower  of  riches, 
give  us  happiness.  And  the  Pyibhus,  Asvins,  Tvashtri,  and  Vibhvan 
are  favourable  to  us,  so  as  to  [grant  us]  wealth." 

Pv.V.  v.  51,  9. — Sajur  Mitrd-  Varundbhydm  sqfuh  Sotmna  Vishnund  \ 
d  ydhi  Agne  Atri-vat  sute  rana  \  "  Associated  fvith  Mitra  and  Varuna, 

"  Compare  R.  V.  vii.  3,  5. 

38  This  refers,  Dr.  Aufrecht  suggests,  to  the  production  of  lightning  in  the  air  at 
the  time  of  a  storm.  • 


TO  VISHNU,  INDRA,  AND  OTHER  DEITIES.  81 

associated  with  Soma  and  Vishnu*,  come  Agni,  and  rejoice  in  our  liba- 
tion, as  [in  that  of]  Atri." 

R.  Y.  v.  87,  1  (S.  V.'i.  462). — Pra  vo  make*  matayo  yantu  Vishnave 
Marutvate  girijdh  evaydmarut  \  pra  sardhdya  prayajyave  mkhddaye  la- 
vase  bhandad-ishtaye  dhuni-vratdya  savase  \  .  .  .  .  4.  Sa  chakrame  ma- 
hato  nir  ururkramah  samdnasmdt  sadasah  evaydm'arut  \  yadd  ayukta 
tmand  svdd  adhi  shnubhir  vishpardhaso  vimahasojigdti  sevridho  nribhih  \ 
....  8.  Advesho  no  Maruto  gdtum  d  itana  srota  havam  jaritur  evayd- 
marut |  VisJinor  mahah  samanyavo  yuyotana  smad  rathyo  na  damsand 
apa  d'veshdmsi  sanutah  \ 

"May  your  hill-born  (or,  voice-born)  hymns  proceed  to  the  great 
Vishnu,  attended  by  the  Maruts,  0  Ev,ayamarut,  (swiftly-moving 
Marut  ?) ;  and  to  the  troop  [of  Maruts],  impetuous,  wearing  beautiful 
rings,  strong,  rushing  on  exultingly, — tcMha^  power  which  delights  in 
resounding.  .  .  4.  The  wide-striding  [god]  strode  forth  from  the  great 
common  abode,  0  Evayaruarut ;  when  by  himself  he  has  yoked  his 
emulous  and  vigorous  [steeds],  he  issues  from  his  own  [abode]  with 
his  swift  heroes,  augmenting  our  felicity.  ...  8.  Maruts,  come  in  a 
friendly  spirit  to  our  song,  hear  the  invocation  of  your  worshipper, 
Evayamarut ;  of  the  same  mind  with  the  great  Vishnu,  like  men  riding 
in  chariots,  drive  our  enemies  away  far  from  us  by  your  might." 

The  hymn  from  which  these  verses  are  taken  is  quoted  and  trans- 
lated in  Prof.  Benfey's  Glossary  to  the  Sama-veda,  p.  39  f. 

R.V.  vi.  17,  11. —  Vardfydn  yam  visve  Marutah  sajoshdh  pachat  satam 
mahishdn  Indra  tubhyam  \  Pushd  Vishnus  trlni  sardihsi  dhdvan  vritra- 
hanam  madiram  amsum  asmai  \  "  For  thec,  Indra,  whom  all  the  Maruts, 
in  concert,  will  magnify,  Pushan  and  Vishnu  cooked  a  hundred  Buffaloes. 
For  him  three  lakes  discharged  the  Vritra- slaying,  exhilarating  soma."39 

39  To  illustrate  the  last  line,  Dr.  Aufrecht  has  pointed  out  to  me  another  passage, 
R.  V.  viii.  66,  4  :  Ekaya  pratidhc*' pibat  sTikam  saramsi  trimsatam  \  Indrah  somasya 
kanuJca  \  "  Indra  swallowed  at  one*  draught  thirty  lakes  of  Soma.  .  .  ."  This  verse  is 
quoted  in  Nir.  v.  11.  I  have  not  attempted  to  translate  the  difficult  word  kanuka, 
at  the  close.  See  Roth's  Illust.  of  Nir.  p.  60,  f.  In  a  review  of  Pictet's  Origines 
Indo-Europeennes»  vol.  ii>  in  Kuhn  und  Schleicher's  Beitrage  zur  Vergl.  Sprach- 
forschung,  iv.  279,  f.,  Prof,  "^eber  refers  to  this  par«age.  "  Saras,  a  pond,"  he  says, 
"in  the  sense  of  cup  (R.  V.  viii.  66,  4.  .  .  .),  which  reminds  us  of  the  'weltmeer' 
(world-ocean)  of  our  students,'  is  no  doubt  merely  a  poetical  metaphor."  See  also 
R.  V.  vii.  103,  7  ;  viii.  7,  10."  In  R.V.  v.  2\  7  f.,  *\gni  is  said  to  have  cooked 
three  hundred  buffaloes  for  Indra,  who  ate  th*em,  and  drank  three  lakes  of  soma, 
when  proceeding  to  fight  with  Vritra. 

'   VOL.  iv.  6 


82  TEXTS  OF  THE  EIGVEDA  ADDRESSED 

R.  V.  vi.  20,  2. — Divo  no,  tullyam  anu  Indra  satrd  asuryam  devebhir 
dhdyi  visvam  \  Ahim  yad  Vritram  apo  vavrivdmsam  hann  rijlsJiin  Vish- 
nund  sachdnah  \  "  All  divine  power,  like  that  of 'the  Sky,  was  completely 
communicated  to  thee,  Indra,  by  the  gods,40  when  thou,  0  impetuous 
[deity],  associated  with  Vishnu,  didst  slay  Vritra  Ahi,  stopping  up  the 
waters." 

R.V.  vi.  21,  9. — Pro,  utaye  Varunam  Mitram  Indram  Marutah  Jcrish- 
va  avase  no  adya  \  pro,  Pushanam  VisJinum  Agnitn  Purandhim  Savitdram 
oshudhih  parvatdfnscha  \  "Dispose  to-day  to  our  help  and  succour 
Varuna,  Mitra,  Indra,  the  Maruts,  Pflshan,  Vishnu,  Agni,  Purandhi, 
Savitri,  the  plants  and  the  mountains." 

R.  Y.  vi.  48,  14. — Tarn  vah  Indram  na  sulcratum  Varunam  n-a  mdyi- 
nam  \  Aryamanam  na  mandram  sripra-^lhojasam  Vishnum  na  stushe 
ddise  |  "I  praise  thee,  o(f  g^eat  power  like  Indra,  wondrous  in  might 
like  Varuna,  pleasant  like  Aryaman,  conferring  large  enjoyment  like 
Vishnu,  that  thou  mayest  bestow  wealth."42 

R.V.  vi.  49,  13. — Yo  rajdmsi  vimame*3  ndrthivdni  tris  chid  Vishnur 
Manave  Iddhitdya  \  tasya  te  sarmann  iipadadyamdne  rdyd  madema  tanvd 
tand  cha  \  "May  we,  ourselves  and  our  offspring,  be  gladdened  by 
wealth,  under  the  protection  afforded  by  thee,  that  Vishnu  who  thrice 
traversed  the  mundane  regions  for  Manu  [or  the  Aryan  man]  when  he 
was  oppressed."44 

R.  V.  vi.  50,  12. — Te  no  Rudrah  Sarasvatl  sajoslidh  mllhushmanto 
Vishnur  mrilflntu  Vdyuh\  Ribhukshdh  Vdjo  fyivyo  v idhdtd  Parjanydvdtd 
pipyatdm  isham  nah  \  "  May  these  dispensers  of  blessings,  Rudra,  Saras- 
vati,  Vishnu,  and  Vayu  together  be  gracioiis  to  us.  May  Ilibhukshan, 
Vaja,  the  divine  Vidhatri  (or  disposer),  Parjanya  and  Vata  replenish 
our  store  of  nutriment." 

40  Stotribhih,  "worshippers,"  according  to  Sayana. 

41  The  word  sripra  occurs  also  in  E.  V.  i.  9(^3;  i.  181,  3;  iii.  18,  5;  iv.  50,  2 ; 
viii.  25,  5;  and  viii.  32,  10  =  S.  V.  i.  217.     By  Yaska,  Nir.  vi.  17,  it  is  derived  from 
the  root  srip,   "to  go"    (see  Roth's  Illust.,  p.  83);  and  is  rendered  by  Sayana 
sarpana-s'la,  " going,"  prasrita,  "  extended,"  etc.  (See  also  Benfey's  Glossary  to  the 
S.  V.)     The  word  visva-bhojasam  occurs  in  the  preceding' verse  vfc  48,  13. 

42  Such  is  the  sense  assigned' to  adi*  by  Sayana:  UK-Wilson's  Sanskrit  Dictionary 
I  find  the  word  pradesana  rendered  "  a  gift  or  offering,  anything  given  to  the  gods, 
superiors,  or  friends,"  etc.  < 

43  Tribhir  eva  vikramancfih  parktytavan  \  "  measured  with  three  strides." — Sayana. 
Compare  R.  V.  i.  154,  Vabove  (p.  69,  ff.),  and  vii.  100,  4,  below  (p.  87). 

44  Asurair  hitiisituya  \  "injured  by  Asuras." — Sayana. 


TO  VISHNU,  INDEA,  AND  OTHEE  DEITIES.  83 

31.  V.  vi.  69, 1-8. — Sam  vg.ni  Jcarmand  sam  ishd  hinomi  Indrd-  Vishnu 
apasas  pare  asya  \  jushethdm  yajnam  dravinam  cha  dhattam  arishtair  nah 
pathibhih  pdrayantd  \  12.  Yd  visvdsdm  janitdrd  matlndm  Indrd-  Vishnu 
lealasd  soma-dhdnd  \  pra  vdm  girah  sasyamdndh  avantu  pro,  stomdso 
glyamdndso  arkaih  \  3.  Indrd-Vishnu  mada-patl  maddndm  d  somam 
ydtam  dravins  dadhdnd  \  sam  vdm  anjantu  aldubhir  matlndm  sam  stomd- 
sah  sasyamdndsah  ukthaih  \  4.  A  vdm  asvdso  abhimdti-shdhah  Indrd- 
Fishnu  sadhamddo  vahantu  \  jushethdm  visvd  havand  matlndm  ^tpa  brah- 
mdni  srinutam  giro  me  \  5.  Indrd- Vishnu  tat  panaydyyam  vdm  somasya 
made  uru  chakramdthe  \  akrinutam  antariksham  variyo  aprathatam  jrvase 
no  rajdmsi  \  &.  Indrd-  Vishnu  havishd  vdvridhdnd  agrddvdnd  namasd 
rdtahavyd  \  ghritdsutl  dravinam  dhattam  'aeme  samudrah  sthah  kalasah 
somadhdnah  \  7.  Indrd-  Vishnu  pibatam  madhvo  asya  somasya  dasrd  ja- 
tharam  prinethdm  \  d  vdm  andhdmsi  matliran_i  agmann  upa  brahmdni 
srinutam  havam  me  \  8.  (A:  Y.  7,  44,  1)  Ubhd  jigyathur  na  pard  jayethe 
na  pard  jigye  hataraschanainoh  \  Indrascha  Vishno  yad  apaspridhethdm 
tredhd  sahasram  vi  tad  airayethdm  \ 

"Indra  and  Vishnu,  I  stimulate  you  t,wain  with  this  rite  and 
oblation :  at  the  conclusion  of  this  ceremony  do  ye  accept  our  sacrifice, 
and  grant  us  wealth,  conducting  us  to  our  object  by  secure  paths.  2. 
Indra  and  Vishnu,  ye  who  are  the  generators  of  all  prayers,  and  are, 
[as  it  were,]  the  bowls  which  hold  the  soma-juice,  may  the  words 
which  are  now  recited  gratify  you,  and  the  hymns  which  are  sung 
with  praises.  3.  Indra  and  Vishnu,  ye  two  lords  of  exhilarating 
draughts,  come  to  the  soma-juice,  bringing  with  you  wealth;  may  the 
hymns  uttered  with  praises-  anoint  you45  twain  with  the  unguents  of 
our  prayers.  4.  fndra  and  Vishnu,  may  your  steeds,  vanquishing  foes, 
and  sharing  in  your  triumph,  bear  you  hither.  Accept  all  the  invoca- 
tions of  our  hymns,  and  hear  my  devotions  and  prayers.  5.  Indra  and 
Vishnu,  this  deed  of  you  tW&in  is  worthy  of  celebration,  that,  in  the 
exhilaration  of  the  soma-juice,  ye  took  vast  strides  j46  ye  made  the 


15  Compare  E.  V.  iii.  17,  h  , 

46  The  commentator  remarks  on  this :  Yadyapi  Vishnor  eva  vikramas  tathapy  eJcar- 
thatvad  ubhayor  ity  uchyate  \  "'Though  'striding'  is  an  act  of  Vishnu  only,  yet  it 
is  so  [described  as  here]  owing  to  both  gods  havir^g  one  jnd  in  View."  In  E.  V.  vii. 
99',  6  (see  below),  the  epithet  umkrama,  "  far-stepping,"  is  applied  in  the  same  way 
to  both  these  deities.  In  the  Harivansa,  7418,  it  is^applied' to  S'iva. 


84  TEXTS  OF  THE  RIGVEDA  ADDRESSED 

atmosphere  wide,  and  stretchedoout  the  worlds,  for  our  existence.46*  6. 
Indra  and  Vishnu,  gladdened  by  our  oblation,  ye  to  whom  are  due  the 
first  draughts  of  the  soma,  ye  to  whom  offerings  should  be  presented 
with  reverence,  and  to  whom  butter  is  offered,  bring  us  wealth,  for  ye 
are  the  ocean,  the  bowl  in  which  the  soma  is  held.  7.  Indra  and 
Vishnu,  workers  of  wonders,  drink  this  sweet  potion ;  £11  your  bellies 
with  soma ;  the  exhilarating  soma-draughts  have  reached  you ;  hear 
my  prayers  and  invocation.  8.  Ye  two  have  both  conquered,  and  are 
not  vanquished.  Neither  of  these  twain  has  been  vanquished.  Vishnu, 
when  thou  and  Indra  strove,  ye  scattered  thrice  a  thousand  [of  your 
foes]."*7  • 

R.  V.  vii.  35,  9  (  =  A.  V.  six.  10,  9). — S'arh  no  Aditir  Ihavatu  vratebhih 
sain  no  bhavantu  Marutah  su-arkuh  \  sam  no    Yishnuh  sam  u  Ptishd  no 

• 

astu  sam  no  bhavitram  sa**i  u^'astu  Vdyuh  \  "  May  Aditi  be  propitious  to 
us  with  her  acts  :  may  the  well-hymned  Maruts  be  propitious  to  us : 
may  Vishnu,  may  Pushan,  may  the  Air,48  may  Vayu,  be  propitious  to  us." 

46*  Comp.  i.  155,  5,  above. 

47  The  commentator  explains  this  as  follows .   Tad  yad  vastu  praty  apaspridhetham 
asuraih  saha  aspridhetham  tredha  loka-veda-vagatmana  tridjjp  sthitam  sahasram  ami- 
tarn  cha  vi  tad  airayetham  vyakrametham  ity  arthah  \  tatha  cha  brahmanam  ubha 

jigyathur  ity  achchhavakasya  \  ubhau  hi  tau  jigyathur  na  parajayethe  na  parajigye 
iti  na  hi  tayoh  kataraschana  parajigye  '  Indras  cha  Tishno  yad  apaspridhetham  tredha 
sahasram  vi  tad  airayetham'  iti  \  Indras  cha  ha  vai  Vishnus  cha  asurair  yuyudhate 
tan  ha  sma  jitva  uchatuh  "  kalpamahai"  iti  \  te  ha  tatha  ity  asurah  uchuh  \  so  'bravJd 
Indro  "  yavad  evayam  Vishnus  trir  vikramate  tavad  asmakam  atha  yushmakam 
itarad"  iti  \  sa  iman  lokan  vichakrame  'tho  vedan  atho  vacham  \  tad  ahuh  "  kim  tat 
sahasram"  iti  "  ime  lokah  imevedah  atho  vag"  iti  bruyat  \  "  airaryetham  airayetham'" 
ity  achhavakah  ukthye  'bhyasyati  \  Ait.  Br.  6,  15  (see  Prof.  Haug's  translation, 
pp.  403,  f.).  "In  reference  to  whatever  thing  ye  two  strove,  i.e.  strove  with  the 
Asuras,"over  that,  in  its  three  characters,  i.e.  as  existing  in  its  character  of  world, 
Veda,  and  speech,  and  in  number  a  thousand,  and  immeasurable,  ye  strode.  Thus  a 
Brihmana  [the  Aitareya,  6,  15,]  says  :  '  ye  both  conquered  ;  this  is  what  the 
Achhuvaka  priest  [repeats] :  for  ye  both  conquered,  ye  are  not  vanquished,  neither 
was  vanquished,  for  neither  of  these  two  was  vrnquished '  [the  last  line  of  the  verse 
before  us  is  then  cited].  Indra  and  Vishnu  fought  with  the  Asuras.  Having  con- 
quered them,  they  said,  let  us  divide  [the"  world].  The  Asuras  said,  be  it  so. 
Indra  said,  As  much  as  this  Vishnu  strides  over  in  three  strides,  so  much  shall  be  ours; 
the  rest  yours.  He  strode  over  these  worlds,  then  thecVedas,  'then  speech.  When 
people  say,  what  is  that  thousand  P  let  him  say,  T&ese  worlds,  these  Vedas,  then 
speech.  The  Achhavaka  priest  repeats  at  the  JJkthya  ritual,  ye  scattered,  ye 
scattered.' "  Comp.  Taitt.  S.  vii.  1,  5,  5.  • 

48  The  word  bhavitra  fe  explained  by  Sayana  as  =  bhuvanam  antariksham  udakam  va. 
•"  The  world,  or  the  atenosphere,  or  water."     The  word,  Dr.  Aufrecht  informs  me, 
.does  not  occur  again  in  the  Vedas. 


TO  VISHNU,  INDRA,  AND-  OTHER  DEITIES.  85 

R.  V.  vii.  36,  9. — Achha  oyam  vo  Marutah  £lokah  etu  achha  Vishnum 
nishiJda-pdm  Sravobhir  ityddi  \  "  Maruts,  may  this  hymn  reach  you : 
may  it  [reach]  Vishnu, 'the  preserver  of  embryos,  with  its  eulogies, "  etc. 

R.  Y.  vii.  39,  5. — A  Agne  giro  divah  d  prithivydh  Mitram  vaha 
Varunam  Indram  Agnim  \  A  Aryamdnam  Aditim  Vishnum  eshdm 
Sarasvatl  Maruto  mddayantdm  \  "Agni,  from  heaven  and  earth  bring 
Mitra,  Varuna,  Indra,  Agni,  Aryaman,  Aditi,  Vishnu  to  the  hymns  of 
these  persons;49  may  Sarasvatl  and  the  Maruts  be  gratified." 

R.  V.  vii.  40,  5. — Asya  devasya  milhusho  vaydh  Vishnor  eshasya50 
prabhrithe  havirlhih  *f  vide  hi  Rudro  rudriyam  mahitvam  ydsishtam 
rartir  Asvindv  'irdvat  I  "  The  branches  of  this  prolific  and  rapid  deity 
Vishnu  [are  to  be  worshipped  ?]  with  oblutions  at  the  offering.  For 
Rudra  possesses  impetuous  power.  The  Asvins  have  come  to  our  place 
of  sacrifice  which  is  provided  with  food.'*  ., 

R.  V.  vii.  44,  1. — Dadhilcrdm  vah  prathamam  Asvind  Ushasam  Agnim 
samiddham  Bhagam  utaye  huve  \  Indram  Vishnum  Pushanam  Brahma- 
naspatim  Aditydn  dydvd-prjthivl  apah  svah  \  "I  invoke  you  for  succour, 
first  Dadhikra,  the  Asvins,  Ushas,  the  kindled  Agni,  Bhaga,  Indra, 
Vishnu,  Pushan,  Brahman aspati,  the  Adityus,  Heaven  and  Earth,  the 
Waters,  the  Sky." 

R.  V.  vii.  93,  8. — Etdh  Agne  aimhdndsah  ishtir  yuvoh  sachd  abhi 
asydma  vtijdn  \  ma  Indro  no  Vishnur  Marutafy  pwrikhyann  ityddi  \ 
11  Breathing  forth  these  petitions,  may  we,  0  Agni  [and  Indra],  with 
[the  help  of]  you  twain,  obtain  food.  Let  not  Indra,  Vishnu,  and  the 
Maruts  despise  us,"  etc. 


49  Bohtlingk  and  Roth»  s.v.  esha,  conjecture  that  in  this  verse  the  corre'ct  reading 
is  esham,  "the  rapid,"  as«an  epithet  of  Vishnu,  and  not  esham, 

50  Sayana  interprets  the  first  words  of  the  verse  before  us  thus,   Vishnoh  sarva- 
devatmakasya  asya  devasya  anye  fcvah  vayah  sakhah  iva  bhavanti  \  "  Other  gods  are, 
as  it  were,  branches  of  this  god,  wh'o  is  the  soul  of  all  the  gods."   He  explains  eshasya 
as  follows :  Prabrithe  havirbhir.  havl-yupair  annaih  eshasya  prapranlyasya,  "  one 
who  can  be  brought  by  oblations  of  food."     The  same  epithet  esha  is  applied  to 
Vishnu  in  the  other  two ,  following    passages  referred  to  in  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's 
Lexicon  under  this  word.     B^.V.  ii.  34,  11. — Tan  voynaho  Martitah  evayavno  Vishnor 
eshasya  prabhrithe   havamahe  \  ityadi  \  "  At  the  offering  of  the  rapid  Vishnu  we 
invoke  you,  the  great,  and  inlpetuous  Maruts,"  etc.     R.  V.  viii.  20,  3. —  Vidma  hi 
Eudriyanam  sushmam  ugram  Marutam  simlvc^am  \  Tfishnor  eshasya  mllhtishani  | 
"  For  we  know  the  fiery  vigour  of  the  sons  of  "Rudra,  the  impetuous  Maruts,  of  the 
rapid  Vishnu,  [all  of  them]  prolific." 


86  HYMNS  OP  THE  RIGVEDA 

K.  Y.  vii.  99, 1. — Paro  mtitrayG,51  tanvd  vridhdna  na  te  mahiivam  anu 
asnuvanti  \  ubhe  te  vidma  rajasl  prithivydh  Vishno  deva  tvam  para- 
masya  vitse  \  2.  Na  te  Vishno  jdyamdno  na  jdto  deva  mahimnah  param 
antam  dpa  \  ud  astabhndh  ndkam  rishvam  brihantam  dddhartha  prdchlm 
kahibham  prithivydh  \  3  (=Yaj.  S.  v.  16).  Irdvatl  dhenumatl  Id 
bhutam  suyavasim  manushe5*  dasasyd  \  Vi  astabhndh  rodasl  Vishno  ete 
dddhartha  prithivim  abhito  mayukhaih  \  4.  Urum  yajndya  chakrathur 
u  lokqjii  janayantd  Suryam  Ushasam  Agnim  \  ddsasya  chid  vrisha- 
siprasya  mdydh  jaghnathur  nard  pritandjyeshu  \  5.  Indrd-Vishnu  driiii- 
hitdh  S'ambarasya  nava  puro  navatim  cha  snathisKtam  \  satam  varchinah 
sahasmth-  cha  sdkam  hatho  aprati  asurasya  virdn  \  6.  lyam  manlshd 
brihatl  brihantd  urulcramfc  'lavasd  vprdhayanti  \  rare  vdm  stomam 
vidatheshu  Vishno  pinvatam  isho  vrijaneshu  Indra  \  7.  (S.  Y.  2,  977 ; 
Taitt.  Sanh.  ii.  2,  12,  4)  Vvshatte  Vishno  dsah  d  krinomi  tad  mejushasva 
S'ipivishta  havyam  \  vardhantu  tvd  mshtutayo  giro  me  yuyam  pdta  svasti- 
bhih  sadd  nah  \ 

"  Thou  who,  with  thy  body, ,  growest  beyond  our  measure,  [men] 
do  not  attain  to  thy  greatness :  we  know  both  thy  two  regions  of  the 
earth;  thou,  divine  Yisbnu,  knowest  the  remotest  [world].52*  2.  No  one, 
0  divine  Yishnu,  who  is  being  born,  or  who  has  been  born,  knows  the 
furthest  limit  of  thy  greatness.  Thou  didst  prop  up  the  lofty  and  vast 
sky  ;  thou  didst  uphold  the  eastern  pinnacle  of  the  earth.53  3.  [Te  two 
worlds,]  be  ye  abundant  in  food,  cows,  and  pastures,  through  beneficence 
to  man.  Yishnu,  thou  didst  prop  asunder  these  two  worlds ;  thou 
didst  envelope  the  earth  on  every  side  with  beams  of  light.  4.  Ye 
(Indra  and  Yishnu)  have  provided  ample  room  for  the  sacrifice,  pro- 
ducing the  sun,  the  dawn,  and  fire.  Ye,  0  heroes,  destroyed  in  the 
battles  the  wonderful  powers  of  the  hostile  (ddfa)  Yrishasipra.  5. 
Indra  and  Yishnu,  ye  smote  the  ninety-nine  strong  cities  of  Sambara; 
together,  ye  slew,  unopposed,  a  thousand  ftand  a  hundred  heroes  of  the 
Asura  Yarchin.  6.  This  great  hymn  gjaddens  you  twain,  the  great,  the 
wide-striding,  the  powerful ;  Yishnu  and  Indra,  I  present  to  you  twain 
a  hymn  at  the  sacrifices.  (  Supply  abundant  nutriment  in  our  habi- 
tations. 7.  Yishnu,  I  utter  to  thee  this  invocation  from  my  mouth. 

61  Compare  paro-ma'tram  rifhlshw mm  Indram  ;  E.  V.  viii.  57,  1. 

62  Yajur-veda  v.  16  reads  manane.   '  62*  Cornp.  R.  V.  i.  155,  5,  above,  p.  74. 

63  Compare  Isaiah  xl.  221   xh\  12,  18. 


ADDRESSED  TO  INDRA  AND  VISHNU.  87 

S'ipivishta,64  favourably  receive  this  my  oblation.     May  my  laudatory 
hymns  delight  thee :  do  you  always  preserve  us  with  blessings." 

R.  V.  vii.  100. — Nu'marto  day  ate  sanishyan  yo  Vishnave  urugdydya 
ddsat  |  pra  yah  satrdchd  manasd  yajdte  etdvantam  naryam  avivdsdt  \ 

2.  TV  am   Vishno  sumatiih  viivajanydm  aprayutdm  evaydvo  matim  ddh  \ 
parcho  yathd-nah  suvitasya  bhurer  asvdvatah  puruschandrasya  ruyah  \ 

3.  Trir  devah  prithivlm  eshah  etdm  vi  chakrame  satarchasam  mahitvd  \ 
pra   Vishnur  astu  tavasas  tavlydn  tvesham  hi  asya  sthavirasya  ndma  \ 

4.  Vi  chakrame  prithivlm  eshah  etdm  kshetrdya  Vislmur  manushe  dasasyan  \ 
dhruvdso  asya  klrayo  •janusah  *urukshitim  sujanimd  chakara  \  5.  (S.  V. 
2,  976;  Taitt.  S.  ii.  2,  12,  5  ;  Nir.  5,  9.)  Pra  tat  te  adya  S'ipivishta 
ndma  aryah  samsami  vayundni  vidvdn  \  tarn  fvd  grindmi  tavasam  atavytin 
kshayantam  asya  rajasah  pardke  \  6.  (S.  Y.  2,  975  ;  Taitt.  S.  ii.  2,  12,  5  ; 
Mr.  5,  8.)  Kim  it  te   V^shno  parichah%an^  Ihut55  pra  yad  vavakshe 
S'ipivishto  asmi  \  md  varpo  asmad  apa  guha  etad  yad  anyarupah  samithe 
babhutha  \  (The  seventh  verse  is  repeated  from  the  last  hymn.) 

"  That  man  never  repents  who,  seeking  [for  good],  brings  offerings  to 
Vishnu,  the  wide-stepping,  who  worships  him  with  his  whole  heart, 
and  propitiates  such  a  powerful  [god],  2.  Vouchsafe  to  us,  swiftly- 
moving  Vishnu,  thy  benevolence,  which  embraces  all  mankind,  thy 
unpreoccupied  regard ;  that  thou  mayest  grant  us  abundant  good,  and 
brilliant  wealth,  with  horses.  3.  Thrice  the  swift  god  by  his  greatness 
has  traversed  this  earth  with  its  hundred  lights.  May  Vishnu  the 
strongest  prevail  over  the  strong :  for  awful  is  the  name  (nature)  of 
that  immovable  [being].  4.  The  swift  Vishnu  traversed  the  earth  to 
bestow  it  for  a  habitation  on  Manu  [or  man].  The  men  who  praise 
him  are  secure :  "[the  god]  of  exalted  birth  has  given  them  a^i  ample 
abode.  5.  I,  a  devoted  worshipper,  who  know  the  sacred  rites,  to-day 
celebrate  this  thy  name,  S'ipivishta ;  I,  who  am  weak,  laud  thee 
who  art  strong,  and  dwelle^t  beyond  this  lower  world.  6.  "What, 
Vishnu,  hadst  thou  to  blame,  that  thou  declaredst,  'I  am  S'ipivishta'  ? 
Do  not  conceal  from  us  this  form,  since  thou  didst  assume  another  shape 
in  the  battle."  " 


6*  See  the  note  on  this  word 'where  it  occurs  in  the  hymn  next  following. 
55  The  Sama-veda  reads  parichakshi  nama,      •>          5 

66  The  following  illustration  of  this  verse  is  'quoted  by  Professor  Benfey  from  the 
commentary  on  the  corresponding  passage  of  the  S.  V. :  ^Pura  khalit  Tishnuh  sraih 


88  TEXTS  OF  THE  RIGVEDA  RELATING 

E.  V.  viii.  9,  12. —  Tad  Indwna  sarat.ham  ydtho  Asvina  yad  va 
Vayund,  lhavathah  samokasa  \  yad  Adityebhir  Ribhubhih  sajoshasu  yad 
vd  Vishnor  mkramaneshu  tishthathah  \  "  When,'  Asvins,  ye  ride  in  the 
same  car  with  Indra,  or  when  ye  dwell  in  the  same  abode  with  Yayu, 
or  when  ye  are  associated  with  the  Adityas  and  the  Ribhus,  or  when 
ye  abide  in  the  strides  of  Vishnu." 

rupam  parityajya  kritrimam  rupantaram  dharayan  sangrame  Vasishthasya  sahayyam 
chakara  \  tarn  janann  rishir  anayu  pratyachashte  \  "  Vishnu  formerly  abandoning 
his  own  form,  and  assuming  another  artificial  shape,  succoured  Vasishtha  in  battle. 
Eecognizing  the  god,  the  rishi  addresses  him  wkh  this  verse."  In  Nir.  T.  8  and  9, 
Yaska  quotes  verses  5  and  6  of  the  hymn  before  us  in  inverse  order.  After  telling 
us  (v.  7)  tfcat,  "  according  to  Aupamanyava,  Vishnu  has  two  names,  S'ipivishta,  and 
Vishnu,  of  which  the  former  has  a  bad  sense"  (S'ipivishto  Vishnur  iti  Vishnor  dve 
namarii  bhavatah  \  kutsitartKiyam  purvam  bhftvati  ity  Aupamanyavah],  Yaska  quotes 
verse  6,  on  which  he  observes :  Kim  te  Vishno  'prakhyatam  etad  bhavaty  aprakhya- 
panlyaih  yan  na  prabrushe  \  f'epah  iva  nirveshtito  'ami  ity  apratipanna-rasmih  \ 
api  va  prasamsa-namaiva  abhipretam  syat  \  kirn  te  Vishno  prakhyatam  etad  bhavati 
prakhyapamyam  yad  uta  prabrushe  \  S'ipivishto  'smi  iti  pratipanna-rasmih  \  sipayo 
'tra  rasmayah  uchyante  \  tair  avishto  bhavati  \  ma  varpo  asmad  apaguha  etat  \ 
varpah  iti  rupa-nama  ....  |  yad  anya-rupah  satyithe  sangrame  bhavasi  samyata- 
rasmih  \  "What,  Vishnu,  is  this  undeclared  thing  of  thine,  not  to  be  declared,  which 
thou  tellost  not  ?  '  I  am  enveloped  like  a  private  member,'  i.e.  with  rays  obscured. 
Or,  by  S'ipivishta  a  laudatory  appellation  may  be  intended ;  '  what  is  this  declared 
thing  of  thine,  which  is  to  be  declared,  that  thou  tellest  ?'  '  I  am  S'ipivishta,  i.e. 
one  whose  rays  are  displayed.'  The  word  'sipi'  here  means  'rays;'  with  these  he 
is  pervaded.  '  Do  not  conceal  this  form  : '  varpas  is  a  word  meaning  'form.'  .... 
'  That  thou  art  of  another  form  in  the  battle  (samithe  =  sangrame},  with  thy  rays  with- 
held.'"  See  Taitt.  S.,  vol.  ii.,  p.  585.  On  v.  5,  Yaska  remarks:  Nir.  v.  9:  "  Tat 
te'dya  S'ipivishta  nama  aryah  s'amsami"  \  aryo  'ham  asmi  Is'varah  stomanam  I  aryas 
tvam  asi  iti  va  \  tarn  tva  staumi  tavasam  atavyaihs  tavasah  iti  mahato  namadheyam 
udito  bhavati  \  nivasantam  asya  rajasah  parake  parakrante  \  "'I,  a  master,  to-day 
celebrate  this  thy  name,  S'ipivishta.'  I  am  aryah,  a  master  of  praises.  Or,  thou 
art  a  master.  '  I,  weak,  praise  thee,  the  strong.'  Tavasa  is  a  \ford  used  for  '  great.' 
'  Dwelling  beyond  (parake  =parakrante)  this  lower  wdrld.' "  From  the  above 
quotation,  it  appears  that  even  in  the  time  of  Yaska,  the  sen'ie  of  the  word  S'ipivishta 
was  uncertain.  In  the  Mahabharata,  S'antiparva,  vv.  13229,  ff.,  Krishna  is  intro- 
duced as  explaining  the  sense  of  the  word  thus  (if  the  writer  intended  to  represent 
Yaska  as  the  Vedic  rishi  by  whom  the  word  was  first  applied  to  Vishnu,  he  could 
not,  have  been  a  particularly  good  Vedic  scholar) :  S'ipivishteti  chakhyayam  hma- 
roma  cha  yo  bhavet  \  tenavishtam  tu  yat  kinchich  Chhipivishteti  cha  smritah  \  Yasko 
mam  rishir  avyagro  naika-yajneshu  gltavcin  \  S'ipivishlah<'.ti  hy  as-nad  guhya-nama- 
dharo  hy  aham  \  stutva  mam  S'i}  ivishteti  Taskah  sarshir  udara-dhlh  \  mat-prasadad 
adho  nashtam  Niruktam  abhijagmivan  \  "A  bald  man  is  designated  by  the  word 
S'ipivishta.  Anything  which  is  penetrated  by  that  is  called  S'ipivishta.  Yaska,  the 
serene  rishi,  celebrated  me  at-  manyr'sacrifices.  In  consequence  of  this,  I  bear  the 
mysterious  name  of  S'ipivishta.  Yaska,  that  rishi  of  large  understanding,  having  lauded 
me  as  S'ipivishta,  recovered  by  my  favour  the  Nirukta,  which  had  been  destroyed." 


TO  VISHNU0INDRA,  AND  OTHER  DEITIES.  89 

R.  Y.  viii.  10,  2. —  ....  Brih&spatim  Visvdndevdn  aham  huve 
Indrd- Vishnu  Asvindv  dsu-heshasd  \  "I  invoke  Brihaspati,  the  Visve- 
devas,  Indra  and  Vishnu,  and  the  Asvins  with  quickly  neighing  steeds." 

K.  V.  viii.  12,  16  (  =  S.Y.  i.  384;  A.  V.  20,  111,  1).—  Yat  somam 
Indra  Vishnavi  yad  vd  gha  Trite  Aptye  \  yad  vd  Marutsu  mandase  sam 
indulhih  \  .  '.  ;  .  25.  Yad  Indra  pritandjye  devds  tvd  dadhire  purah  \ 
dd  it  te  haryatd  Tiarl  vavakshatuh  \  26.  Yadd  Vritram  nadl-vritam 
iavasd  vajrinn  abadhlh  \  dd  id  ityddi  \  27.  Yadd  te  F'ishnur  ojasd  trini 
padd  vichakrame  \  dd  id  ityddi  \ 

"Whether,  Indra,  thou  [drinkest]  soma  along  with  Vishnu,  or  with 

Trita  Aptya,  or  with  the  Maruts  art  exhilarated  by  libations 

25.  "When,  Indra,  the  gods  placed  thee1  in  their  front  in  the  battle, 
then  thy  dear  steeds  waxed  strong.  26.  When,  thunderer,  thou 
didst  by  thy  might  slay  Yritra,  who  stop*pef\  up  the  streams,  then  thy 
dear  steeds  grew  strong.  27.  When  by  thy  force  Yishnu  strode  three 
steps,  then  thy  dear  steeds  waxed  strong." 

R.  Y.  viii.  15,  8  (  =  S,V.  2,  996,  f . ;  A.  Y.  20,  106,  26).— Tava 
dyaur  Indra  paumsyam  prithivl  vardhati  sravah  \  tvdm  dpah  parvatdsas 
cha  hinvire  \  9.  Tvdm  Vishnur  bn'han  kshayo61  Mitro  grindti  Varunah  \ 
tvdm  sardho  madati  anu  mdrutam  \  10.  Tvam  vrishd  jandndm  mam- 
histhah  Indra  jajnishe  \  satrd  viivd  su-apatydni  dadhishe  \ 

8.  "  Indra,  the  sky  augments  thy  manhood,  and  the  earth  thy  renown. 
The  waters  and  the  mountains  stimulate  thee.  9.  Yishnu,  who  dwells 
on  high,  Mitra,  and  Yaruna  celebrate  thee  ;  the  troop  of  Maruts  follows 
thee  with  exultation.  10.  Of  all  beings,  thou,  Indra,  hast  been  born 
the  most  bountiful  hero ;  thou  hast  made  all  things  altogether  prolific." 

E.  V.  viii.  25,  11., — Te  no  ndvam  urmhyata  divd-naktam  svdtinavah  \ 
arisJiyanto  ni  pdyubkih  sachemahi  \  12.  AgJmate  Vishnave  vayam  arish- 
yantah  suddnave  \  srudhi  svaydvan  sindho  purva-chittaye  \  13.  (Mr.  v.  1) 
Tad  vdryam  vrinimahe  varishtham  gopayatyam  \  Mitro  yat  pdnti  Varuno 
yad  Aryamd  \  14.  Uta  nah  siydhur  apdm  tad  Marutas  tad  Asvind  \ 
Indro  Vishnur  midhvdmsaJi  sajoshasah  \  i 


57  Benfey,  in  his  translation  of  the  Sama-veda,  renders  kshaya  hy  "king."  Roth, 
in  his  Lexicon,  thinks  this  sense  is  not  established,  and  renders  the  words  brihan 
kshayah  by  "  high  abode,  i.e.  heaven,  or  those  w.lo  dwe^i  in  the  high  abode,  the  gods." 
lie  also  conjectures  that  the  correct  reading  in  this  passage  may  be  brihat-kshayah, 
"  who  dwells  on  high." 


90  TEXTS  OF  THE  EIGVEDA  RELATING 

"Do  ye,  bountiful  [gods],  preserve  our  bard58  night  and  day.  May 
we,  free  from  injury,  receive  your  protection.  12.  Free  from  injury, 
We  [offer  praise]  to  the  innocuous,  and  bountiful  Vishnu.  Listen,  0 
self-moving  Ocean,  [to  us]  as  your  first  thought.  13.  "We  desire  that 
excellent  treasure,  worthy  to  be  guarded,  which  Mitra,  Varuna,  and 
Aryaman  possess.  14.  And  may  the  Ocean  of  waters,  may  the  Maruts, 
may  the  Asvins,  Indra,  and  Vishnu,  all  of  them  prolific,  associated 
together,  [bestow]  that  upon  us." 

R.'  V.  viii.  27,  8. — A  praydta  Maruto  Vishno  Asvind  Pushan 
mdklnayd  dhiyd  \  Indrah  dydtu  pratfiamah  sanishyubhir  vrishd  yo 
vritrahd  grine  \  "  Come  hither,  ye  Maruts,  Yishnu.  Asvins,  Pushan, 
at  my  hymn.  May  Indra  com'e  the  first,  he  who  is  celebrated  by  those 
who  desire  [his  blessing],  as  the  vigorous,  the  slayer  of  Vritra." 

The  following  hymn,  ifi  the  seventh  verse  of  which  Yishnu  is 
mentioned,  is  interesting  from  the  manner  in'  which  the  various 
characteristics  of  the  different  gods  are  succinctly  described : 

R.  Y.  viii.  29,  1  ff. — Babhrur  eJco  vishunafr  sunaro  yuvd  anji  ankte 
hiranyayam  \  2.  Yonim  ekah  d  sasdda  dyotano  antar  deveshu  medhirah  \ 
3.  Vtisim  eJco  bibharti  haste  dyaslm  antar  deveshu  nidhruvih  \  4. 
Vajram  eko  bibharti  haste  dhitaih  tena  vritrdni  jighnate  \  5.  Tigmam 
eko  bibharti  haste  dyudham  Suchir  ugro  jaldsha-bheshajah  \  6.  Pathah 
ekah  pipdya  taskaro  yathd  esha  veda  nidhlndm  \  7.  Trmi  ekah  urugdyo 
vi  chahrame  yatra  devdso  madanti  \  8.  Tibhir  dvd  charatah  ekayd  saha 
pra  pravdsd  iva  vasatah  \  9.  Sado  dvd  chakrdte  upamd  divi  samrdjd 
sarpirdsutl  \  10.  Archantah  eke  mahi  sdma  manvata  tena  suryam 
arochayan  \ 

"One5,9  is  a  youth,  brown,  variable,60  active.  A  golden  lustre 
invests  him.  2.  Another,61  luminous,  has  seated  bjmself  on  the  place 

68  Dr.  Aufrecht  tells  me  that  the  word  navam  is  to  accented  that  it  cannot  mean 
"ship."     He  regards  it  as  a  masc.  noun  from  the  root  nu,  "to  praise ;  "  and  assigns 
to  it  the  sense  of  "  bard,"  or  "  hymn."     That  there  is  such  a  word  as  nava  is  proved 
hy  its  occurrence  in  R.  V.  ix.  45,  5 :  Induih  navah  anushata  \  where  it  must  mean 
"  the  bards,  or  hymns,  celebrated  Indu."  (? 

69  Soma,  as  the  moon,  according,} to  the  commentator.    (M.  Langlois  thinks  the  sun 
is  meant.     Dr.  Aufrecht  thinks  the  troop  of  Maruts,  Marud-gana,  may  be  meant,  to 
whom,  he  remarks,  the  epithet  babhru,  "dark-brown,  tawny,"  is  as  applicable  as  it 
is  to  their  master,  Eudra,  to  w^om  itfjs  frequently  given. 

60  Bohtlingk  and  Both  understand  v'ishuna  of  the  changing  phases  of  the  moon. 

61  Agni,  according  to  the  commentator.    Atra  yonim  iti  lingad  Agnir  uchyate  \ 


TO  VISHNU,  INDRA,  AND  OTHER  DEITIES.  91 

of  sacrifice,  wise,  amidst  the  gods.  j3.  Another62  holds  in  his  hand 
an  iron  axe,  steadfast,  among  the  gods.  4.  Another63  holds  the 
thunderbolt  poised  in  'his  hand,  with  which  he  slays  his  enemies. 
5.  Another,64  bright,  fiery,  possessing  healing  remedies,  holds  a  sharp 
weapon  in  his  hand.  6.  Another65  watches  the  roads  like  a  robber: 
he  knows  the  treasures.  7.  Another,66  wide-  stepping,  strode  three 
[strides,  in  the  regions]  where  the  gods  rejoice.  8.  Two  [others]67 
ride  on  birds  (horses)  with  one  [goddess]  :  they  dwell  afar,  as  if 
abroad.  9.  Two  [others],68  the  highest,  have  made  their  abode  in 
the  sky,  monarchs,  worshipped  with  butter.  10.  Some,  worshipping, 
have  meditated  a  great  sama-hymn,  by  which  they  have  caused  the 
sun  to  shine."  >  , 

R.  V.  viii.  31,  10.  —  A»sarma  parvatdndni  vrimmahe  nadlndm  d 
Vishnoh  sachd-bhuvah  \  "  We  seek  for  p'?ote/}tion  from  the  mountains, 
the  rivers,  and  Yishnu  who  is  associated  with  them." 

R.Y.  viii.  35,  1,  14.  —  1.  Agnind  Indrena  Varunena  Tishnund  Adityaih 
Rudrair  Vasubhih  sachd-bhuvd  \  sajoshasd  Ushasd  Suryena,  cha  somam 
pibatam  Asvind  \  14.  Angirasvantd  uta  Vishnuvantd  Ifarutvantd 
jaritur  gachhatho  havam  ityddi  \  "Asvins,  drink  the  soma-juice,'  united 
with  Agni,  Indra,  Yaruna,  Yishnu,  the  Adityas,  Rudra,  the  Yasus, 
and  associated  with  Ushas  and  Surya.  14.  Attended  by  Angiras,  by 
Yishnu,  and  by  the  Maruts,  you  come  at  the  invocation  of  your 
worshipper." 

R.  Y.  viii.  66,  10.  —  Visvd  it  td  Vishnur  dbharad  urukramas  tvd 
ishitah  |  satam  mahishdn  Jcshlra-pdlcam  odanam  vardham  Indra  emusham  \ 
"The  wide-striding  Yishnu,  urged  by  thee,  0  Indra,  carried  off  all 
[these  things],  a  hundred  buffaloes,  broth  cooked  with  milk,,  and  a 
fierce  (?)  hog." 

This  verse  is  considered  by  Dr.  Aufrecht  to  contain  an  allusion  to 


62  Tvashtri. 

64  Rudra.     Compare  R.  V.  i.  43,  4,  Vhere  Rudra  is  named,  and  the  same  epithet, 
jalasha-bheshaja,  is  applied  to  him,  and  R.  V.  rii.  35,  6,  where  he  is  called  jalasha, 
"healing."  * 

65  Pushan.  '  66  Vishuu. 

67  The  As'vius.     In  various  passages  of  the  R.  V.,  the  daughter  of  the  Sun  is  said 
to  ride  on  the  car  of  the  Asvins.     See  the  account  of  these  deities  in  the  fifth  volume 
of  this  work.     In  R.  V.  v.  73,  5,  the  goddess  L?  called  Surya. 

68  Mitra  and  Varuna. 


92     QUOTATION  FEOM  SAYANA'S  COMMENTARY  ON  THE  E.  V. 

some  myth  (also  referred  to  in  iR.  V.  i.  jBl,  7,  quoted  in  p.  67),  in 
which  Vishnu  appears  to  have  been  represented  as  carrying  off  cattle, 
a  hog,  and  other  provisions  for  the  use  of  Indra.  Compare  Professor 
"Wilson's  note  (d)  on  E.  Y.  i.  61,  7.  The  same  story  may  be  alluded 
to  in  E.  Y.  vi.  17,  11,  above,  p;  81.  See  also  the  note  there. 

Sayana  gives  two  explanations  of  the  verse  (viii.  66, -10),  that  of 
the  Nairuktas  or  etymologists,  and  that  of  the  Aitihasikas  or  recorders 
of  legends.  I  cite  the  latter  only.  The  story  there  told  is  the  same 
as  I  have  already  cited  above  (pp.  39  f.)  from  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita; 
but  it  is  here  given  in  a  different  and  conciser  version.  Part  of  the 
following  quotation  consists  of  Sayana's  own  application  of  two  Yedic 
texts,  R.V.  i.  61,  7,  quoted  ^bove,  p.  67,  and  viii.  66,  10,  which  has 
just  been  given. 

Aitihdsika-pakshe  \  charpka-ordhmane  itihdsah  dmndyate  \  "  Vishnur 
yajnah  \  sa  develhyah  dtmdnam  antaradhdt  \  tarn  anya-devatdh  na 
avindan  \  Indras  tv  avet  \  sa  Indram  abravtt  'ko  bhavdn'  iti  \  tarn 
Indrah  pratyabramd  '  aham  durgdndm  asurdndm  cha  hantd  \  bhavdms 
tu  kah '  iti  |  so  'bravld  '  aham  durgdd  dhartd  \  tvam  tu  yadi  durgdndm 
asurdndm  cha  hantd  tato  'yam  vardho  vdmd-mushah  ekavimsatydh  purdm 
pare  'smanmaymdm  vasati  \  tasminn  asurdndm  vasu  vdmam  asti  \  tarn 
imam  jahi"1  iti  \  tasya  Indras  tdh  puro  bhittvd  hridayam  avidhyat  \ 
adhi  tatra  yad  dslt  tad  Vishnur  dharad"  iti  \  so  ''yam  itihdso  "  asya 
id  u  mdtuh  savaneshu"  "visvd  it  td  Vishnur"  ity  dbhydm pratipdditah \ 
tayor  madhye  " asya  id  u  mdtur"  ity  atra  Vishnund  "he  Indra  tvam 
'  durgdndm  hantd '  ity  dtmdnam  kathayasi  tarhi  vdma-musham  vardham 
asuramjahi"  ity  uktdrtho  "vidhyad  vardham"  iti pddena pratipaditdh  \ 
Indrena  flia  '  Vishno  tvam  " durgdd  dhartd"  iti  brushe  \  mayd  purdni 
jitdny  asuras  cha  ahdtitas  tasya  vdmam  vasv  dnaya '  ity  ukto  Vishnu- 
murtis  tasya  Vardhdsurasya  dhanam  mumosha  \  so  'rtho  "mushdyad 
Vishnuh  pachatam  "  iti  pddena  suchttah  \  ca  1dm  punar  mushitavdn  iti 
tad  atra  uchyate  "visvd  it  td  "  iti  \  ^ 

"  On  the  part  of  the  Aitihasikas  a  story  is  recorded  in  the  Charaka 
Brahmana  (i.e.  the  Brahmana  of  the  Black  Yajur  Veda) :  '  Vishnu  is 
the  sacrifice.  He  withdrew  himself  from  the  sight  of  the  gods.  The 
other  gods  did  not  discover  him;  but  Indra  knew  [where  he  was]. 
He  said  to  Indra,  Who  art  thov.  ?  Indra  replied,  "I  am  the  destroyer 
of  castles,  and  Asuras ;  but  who  art  thou  ?  He  said,  I  am  he  who 


TEXTS  bF  THE  RIGYEDA  ABOUT  VISHXTJ.  93 

removes  [the  spoil]  from  the  caslle :»  but  if  thou  art  the  destroyer  of 
castles  and  Asuras,  then  this  Varaha,  a  plunderer  of  goods,  dwells  on 
the  other  side  of  twenty- one  stone  ramparts ;  in  him  abide  the  wealth 
and  property  of  the  Asuras:  slay  him.  Indra  broke  through  these 
ramparts,  and  pierced  his  heart ;  and  Vishnu  carried  off  all  that  was 
found  there.-'  This  story  is  set  forth  in  the  two  verses,  the  one  be- 
ginning 'Having  at  the  libations,'  etc.  (R.  V.  i.  61,  7),  and  'The 
wide-striding  Vishnu,'  etc,  {viii.  66,  10).  In  the  fourth  quarter  of  the 
first  of  these  verses  the  words  *  pierced  the  boar '  (Varaha)  refer  to 
the  clause  of  this  story  in  which  Vishnu  says,  '  Thou,  Indra,  callest 
thyself  a  destroyer  of  castles;  slay  then  the  Asura  Varaha,  the 
plunderer  of  goods.'  The  third  quarter ,of  the  same  verse,  'the  im- 
petuous Vishnu^Btole  the -cooked  mess,'  alludes  to  the  other  clause 
of  the  story  in  which  the  being  in  the  rbrm,  of  Vishnu,  being  addressed 
by  Indra  in  the  words,  '  Vishnu,  thou  callest  thyself  the  being  who 
carries  off  goods  from  the  castle.  I  (Indra)  have  conquered  the 
castles  and  slain  the  A^sura;  now,  therefore,  bring  the  treasures 
plundered,  the  property  of  the  Asura  Varaha.'  But  what  was  it 
that  he  plundered  ?  That  is  declared  in  the  words,  the  wide-striding 
Vishnu,  etc.  (viii.  66,  10)."  The  Terse  is  then  explained.  The  stoiy 
in  the  Brahmana  seems  to  be  made  up  from  the  obscure  hints  in  the 
hymns. 

R.  V.  viii.  72,  7  (=Vaj.  S.  33,  47). — Adjii  na  Indra  eshdfh  Vishno 
sajdtydndm  \  ita  Maruto  Ascind  \  "Remember,  Indra,  Vishnu,  Maruts, 
Asvins,  us  thy  kinsmen." 

R.  V.  ix.  33,  3  (S.  V.  2,  116). — Stitdh  Indruya  Vdyave  Varundya 
Marudlltyah  \  somdh  arshanti  Vishnave  \  "The  soma-draughts  poured 
forth,  hasten  to  Indra,  Vayu,  Varuna,  the  Maruts,  and  to  Vishnu." 

R.  V.  ix.  34,  2. — Sutah  Indruya  Vdyave  Varundya  Ifarudbhyah  \ 
somo  arsJiati  Vishnave  \  "  Tjie  soma  hastens  to  Indra,  Vayu,  Varuna, 
the  Maruts,  and  Vishnu." 

R.  V.  ix.  56,  4. — Team  Indruya  Vishnave  svddur  Indo  pari  srava  I, 
nrln  stotrin  pnhi  anihasah  \  "  Indu,  do  thou  flow,  sweet,  to  Indra,  to 
Vishnu.  Preserve  fro'm  sin  the  men  who  praise  thee." 

R.  V.  ix.  63,  3. — Sutah  Indruya  Vishnave  somah  kalase  dksharat  \ 
madhumdn  astu  Vdyave  \  "The  soma?  Vhe^poured  forth,  flowed  into 
the  vessel  for  Indra,  for  Vishnu.  May  it  be  honied  for  Vayu." 


94  TEXTS  OP  THE  EIGVEDA  RELATING 

E.  V.  ix.  65,  20  (S.  V.  2,  345>).— -Apsdh  Indrdya  Vdyave  Varunuya 
Marudlhyah  \  somo  arshati  Vishnave  \  "Pouring  forth  streams,  the 
soma  hastens  to  Indra,  Vayu,  Varuna,  the  Maruts,  and  to  Vishnu." 

K.  V.  ix.  90,  5. — Matsi  Soma  Varunam  matsi  Mitram  matsi  Indram 
Indo  pavamdna  Vishnum  \  matsi  sardho  Mdrutam  matsi  devdn  matsi 
mahdm  Indram  Indo  maddya  \  "Soma,  Indu,  purified,  thou  exhilara- 
test  Varuna,  thou  exhilaratest  Mitra,  thou  exhilaratest  Indra,  thou 
exhilaratest  Vishnu,  thou  exhilaratest  the  troop  of  the  Maruts,  thou 
exhilaratest  the  gods,  and  the  great  Indra,  that  they  may  be  merry." 

K.  V.  ix.  96,  5  (=S.  Y.  ii.  293). — -Somah  pavate  janitd  matlndm 
janitd  divo  janitd  prithivyqh  \  janitd  Agner  janitd  Suryasy  a  janitd  In- 
drasya  janitd  uta  Vishnoh  \  "  Soma  is  purified  [he  who  is]  the  generator 
of  hymns,  the  generator  of  the  Sky,  the  generator^f  the  Earth,  the 
generator  of  Agni,  the  generator  of  Surya,  the  generator  of  Indra,  and 
the  generator  of  Vishnu." 

This  verse  is  quoted,  and  thus  explained  in  the  Nirukta-parisishta, 
ii.  12:  Somah  pavate  \  somah  suryah  prasavandt  \  janitd  matlndm 
prakdsa-Tcarmandm  dditya-rasmindm  divo  dyotana-karmandm  dditya- 
raimlndm  prithivydh  prathana-karmandm  dditya-rasmmdm  Agner  gati- 
karmandm  dditya-rasmmdm  Suryasya  svikarana-karmandm  dditya-rasml- 
ndm  Indrasya  aisvarya-karmandm  dditya-rasmlndm  Vishnor  vydpti- 
karmandm  dditya-rasmlndm  ity  adhidaivatam  \  atha  adhydtmam  \  somah 
dtmd  apy  etasmdd  eva  indjriydndm  janitd  ity  arthah  \  api  vd  sarvtibhir 
vilhutilhir  vibhutata  (?)  dtmd  ity  dtma-gatim  dchashte  \  "  Soma  is 
purified.  Soraa  is  'surya'  (the  sun),  from  generating  (prasavandt}. 
He  is  the  generator  of  Tiymns  (or  thoughts),  i.e.  of  those  solar  rays 
whose  function  it  is  to  reveal ;  of  the  Sky,  i.e  of  those  solar  rays  whose 
function  it  is  to  shine ;  of  the  Earth,  i.e.  of  those  solar  rays  whose 
function  it  is  to  spread  ;  of  Agni,  i.e.  of  those  solar  rays  whose  function 
it  is  to  move ;  of  Surya,  i.e.  of  those  sola^  rays  whose  function  it  is  to 
appropriate  (svlkarana'} ;  of  Indra,  i.e.  of  those  solar  rays  whose  function 
is  sovereignty ;  of  Vishnu,  i.e.  of  those  solar  rays  whose  function  is 
diffusion  :  such  is  the  mythological  explanation.  Now  follows  the 
spiritual  interpretation,  i.e.  that  which  refers  '10  soul.  Soma  is  also 
the  soul ;  and  for  this  cause  he  is  the  generator  of  the  senses :  such  is 
the  meaning.  Or,  he  thas  declares  the  course  of  the  soul,  that  it  is 
variously  modified  by  all  its  changing  manifestations." 


TO  VIStfXU,  INDRA,  AND  OTHER  DEITIES.  95 

R.  V.  ix.  166,  6  (  =  S.  Y.  ii.  666), — Pavasva  vdja-sdtamah  pavitre 
dhdrayd  sutah  \  Indrdya  Soma  Vishnave  devebhyo  madhumattamah  \ 
"  Somaj  be  purified,  dispenser  of  strength,  poured  out  in  a  stream  into 
the  filter,  for  Indra,  for  Vishnu,  for  the  gods,  most  honied." 

R.  V.  x.  1,  3, —  Vishnur  itthd  paramam  asya  vidvdn  jtito  brihann 
abhi  pdti  Jritlyam  \  dsd  yad  asya  payo  akrata,  svaih  sachetaso  abhi 
achanti  atra  \  "  Vishnu,  knowing  thus  his-(Agni's)  highest  [birth-place], 
when  born,  the  great  being,  protects  his  third  [birth-place,  on  earth]. 
Men  unanimously  worship  him  here,  when  they  offer  him  their  libation 
face  to  face."69  " 

R.  V.  x.  65,  1. — Agnir  Indro  Varuno  Mitro  Aryamd  Vdyuh  Pushd 
Sarasvatl  sajoshasah  \  Aditydh  Vishnur*  Marutah  Svar  brihat  Somo 
Rudro  Aditir  Brahmanaspatih  \  "  Agni,  Indra,  Yaruna,  Mitra,  Arya- 
man,  Yayu,  Pushan,  Sarasvatl,  associatedwtogether,  the  Adityas,  Yishnu, 
the  Maruts,  the  great  Sky,  Soma,  Rudra,  Aditi,  Brahman aspati." 

R.  Y.  x.*  66,  4,  5. — Aditir  dydvd-prithivl  ritam  mahad  Indrd- 
Vishnu  Marutah  Svar  Irihat  \  devdn  Aditydn  avase  havdmahe  Vasun 
Rudrdn  Savitdram  sudamsasam  \  5.  Sarasvdn  dhllhir  Varuno  dhrita- 
vratah  Pushd  Vishnur  mahimd  Vdyur  Asvind  \  Irahma-krito  amritdh 
visva-vedasah  sarma  no  yafiisan  trivarutham  amhasah  \ 

"  We  invoke  Aditi,  Heaven  and  Earth,  the  great  Ceremonial,  Indra 
and  Yishnu,  the  Maruts,  the  great  Sky,  the  divine  Adityas,  to  our 
succour,  theVasus,  Rudras,  and  Savitri,  the  wonder-working.  5.  May 
Sarasvat,  through  our  prayers,  may  Yaruna,  whose  ordinances  are  fixed, 
Pushan,  Yishnu,  the  great  Power,  Yayu,  the  Asvins,  the  immortals, 
offerers  of  prayer,  possessors  of  all  wealth,  grant  us  a  triple  protection 
from  evil." 

R.  Y.  x.  92,  11. — Te  hi  dydvd-prithivl  Ihuri-retasd  Nardsdmsas 
chaturango  Yamo  'ditih  \  devas  Tvashtd  Dravinoddh  Ribhuhshanah  pra 
rodasl  Maruto  Vishnur  arhife  \  "The  prolific  Heaven  and  Earth,  the 
four-limbed  Narasansa,  Yama,  Aditi,  the  god  Tvashtri,  Dravinodas,  the 
Ribhukshans,  the  two  worlds,  the  Maruts,  Yishnu  have  been  honoured." 

R.  Y.  x.  113,  1 . — Tarn  asya  dydvd-prithivl  sachetasd  visvebhir  decair 
anu  sushmam  dvatum  j»  yad  ait  Icrinvdno  'mahimdnam*  indriyam  pltvl 
somasya  kratumdn  avardhata  \  2.  Tarn  asya  Vishmir  mahimdnam  ojasd 69* 

69  See  above  p.  66  f. ;  and  the  fifth  volume  of  this  wArk,  p.  207. 
69*  The  same  combination  of  words,  mahimanam  ojasa,  occurs  in  R.  Y.  v.  81,  3, 
above,  p.  72. 


96  TEXTS  OF  THE  EIGVEDA  ABOUT  VISHNU. 

amsum  dadhanvdn  madhuno  vi  r^psate  \  devebhir  Indro  maghavd  sayd- 
vabhir  Vritrafh  jaghanv an  abhavad  varenyah  \  "  The  concordant  heaven 
and  earth,  with  all  the  gods,  have  stimulated  that  vigour  _  of  his. 
"When  he  went  on  displaying  his  energetic  greatness,  drinking  the 
soma,  the  powerful  god  exulted.  2.  Vishnu,  in  his  might,  bringing 
the  soma  plant,  [the  source  of]  his  greatness,  is  full  <?f.the  honied 
juice/  Indra,  the  opulent,  with  the  gods  attending,  having  slain  Vritra, 
became  distinguished." 

B.  V.  x.  128,  2  (A.  V.  5,  33). — Mama  devdh  vihave  santu  sarve 
Indravanto  Maruto  Vishnur  Agnir  ityttdi]  "May  the  gods  all  attend 
on  my  invocation,  the  Maruts  with  Indra,  Vishnu,  Agni,"  etc. 

R.  V.  x.  141,  3  (Vaj.  S.,9V  26;  A.  V.  3,  20,  4^—Somam  rdjdnam 
avase  'gnim  glrbhir  havdmahe™  \  Aditydn  Vishnum  Suryam  brahmd- 
nancha  Brihaspatim  \  .  v.  &-  (Vaj.  S.  9,  27;  A.  V.  3,  20,  7.)  Arya- 
manam  Brihaspatim  Indram  danaya  chodaya  \  Vdtam  Vishnum  Saras- 
vatlm  Savitarancha  vdjinam  \  "  We  invoke  with  hymn*  king  Soma, 
to  our  aid,  and  the  Adityas,  Vishnu,  Surya,  and  the  priest  Brihaspati. 
5.  Excite  Aryaman,  Brihaspati,  Indra,  to  generosity,  andVata,  Vishnu, 
Sarasvati,  and  Savitri,  the  heroic." 

R.  V.  x.  181,  1. — Praihas  cha  yasya  Saprathas  cha  numa  anuslttu- 
bhasya  havisho  havir  yat  \  Dhutur  dyutunut  Savitus  cha  Vishnoh  rathan- 
taram  djabhdra  Vasishthah  \  2.  Avindan  te  atihitam  yad  dsld  yajnasya 
dhdma  paramam  guhd  yat  \  Dhdtur  dyutdndd  Savitus  cha  Vishnor  Bhar- 
advujo  brihad  a  chakre  Agneh  \  3.  Te  'vindan  manasd  dldhydndh  yajuh 
slcannam  prathamam  devaydnam  \  Dhd'ur  dyutdndd  Savitus  cha  Vishnor 
d  Surydd  abharan  gharmam  ete  \ 

"  Va$ishtha  has  received  from  the  shining  Dhatri,  from  Savitri,  and 
from  Vishnu,  the  Eathantara,  that  which  is  the  offering  of  the  fourfold 
sacrifice,  whereof  Prathas  and  Saprathas  are  the  names.  2.  These 
[sages]  discovered  what  was  very  far  renloved,  the  supreme  and  secret 
abode  of  sacrifice.  Bharadvaja  has  received  the  Brihat  from  the 
shining  Dhatri,  from  Savitri,  from  Vishnu,  and  from  Agni.  3.  Con- 
templating with  their  minds,  these  [sages]  discovered  the  descended 
Tajush,  the  firtt  path  to  t'ne  gods.  Prom  thershining  Dhatri,  Savitri, 
Vishnu,  Surya,  they  brought  down  Gharma/' 

B.  V.  x.  184,  1  (  =  A.  'Y.  5,  ££,  5). —  Vishnur  yonifh  kalpat/atu  Tvashtd 

70  The  Yajasaneyi  Sanhita  reads  anvarabhamahe  instead  of  girbhir  havamahe. 


UNDEFINED  CHARACTER  OF  VISHNU.  97 

rupdni  pimiatu  \  d  sincJiatu  Prajypatir  Dhdtd  garlham  dadhdtu  te  \ 
"Let  Vishnu  form  the  woihb;  let  Tvashtri  mould  the  forms;  let 
Prajapati  infuse  [the ,  seminal  principle] ;  let  Dhatri  form  the 
embryo." 

SECT.  II. — Subordinate  position  occupied  ly  Vishnu  in  the  hymns  of  the 
*Rig-veda  as  compared  with  other  deities. 

The  preceding  passages  are  all,  or  nearly  all,  which  the  Big-veda 
contains  regarding  Vishnu.  In  my  remarks  on  R.  V.  i.  22,  16,  ff. 
(above  p.  64  ff.),  I  have  quoted ^he  opinions  of  tw$  of  the  most  ancient 
interpreters  of  the  Veda,  S'akapuni  and  Aurnavabha,  on  the  character  of 
Vishnu.  The  former  regards  him  as  a  god  \vlio,  in  what  are  called  his 
three  strides,  is  manifested  in  a  threefold  form,  as  Agni  on  earth,  as  Indra 
or  Vayu  in  the  atmosphere,  and  as  the  Sun  ip  heaven.  The  second  writer, 
Aurnavabha,  on  the  other  hand,  interprets  Vishnu's  three  strides  as  the 
rising,  culmination,  and  the  setting  of  the  sun.  These  three  strides 
are  also  noticed,  as  we  have  seen  above,  in  E.  V.  i.  154,  1,  2,  3,  4 ; 
i.  155,  4,  5;  vi.  49,  13;  vii.  100,  3,  4;  viii.  29,  7;  while  in  other 
places  (R.  V.  ii.  1,  3;  iii.  54,  14;  ir.  3,  7;  iv.  18,  11 ;  viii.  8s),  12; 
v.  3,  3;  v.  87,  4;  viii.  9,  12;  viii.  66,  10;  x.  1,  3)  the  epithet  "wide- 
stepping,"  or  "wide-striding,"  is  either  applied  to  this  deity,  or,  at 
least,  some  allusion  is  made  to  this  function,  or  to  this  god's  station  in 
the  heavens.  In  E.  V.  vi.  69,  5,  and  vii.  99,  6,  Indra  is  associated 
with  Vishnu  as  taking  vast  strides. 

As  the  peculiar  divine  office  of  Vishnu,  indicated  by  his  three 
steps,  stages,  or  stations,  was  differently  understood  by  the  oldest 
interpreters  whose  opinions  have  been  handed  down  to  us,  it  is  natural 
to  suppose  that  it  was  not  so  clearly  denned  or  understood  as  the 
functions  of  some  of  th»  other  gods,  as  Agni  and  Indra  for  example. 
But  the  specific  character  of  ihany,  I  may  say  most,  of  the  Vedic  gods 
is  far  from  being  distinctly  determined  in  the  hymns. 

Some  other  acts  of  even  a  higher  character  are  attributed  to 
Vishnu.  In  B*  V.  i.^  154,  1,  2;  vii.  99,  2,  3,  he  is  said  to  have 
established  the  heavens  land  the  earth,  to  Contain  all  the  worlds  in 
his  strides;  in  B.  V.  vi.  09,  5,  and  vii.  99,  4,  to  have,  with  Indra, 
made  the  atmosphere  wide,  stretched^  *out  .the  worlds,  produced 
the  sun,  the  dawn  and  fire;  in  E.  V.  i.  156,  4,  to  have  received 
VOL.  iv.  ,  7 


98  VISHNU  NOT  ONE  OF  THE  MOST  PROMINENT  GODS  OF  THE  R.V. 

the  homage  of  Yaruna ;   while  in  JR.  V.  vii.  99,  2,  his  greatness  is 

fc 
described  as  having  no  limit   within  the   ken  of  present  or  future 

beings.  The  attributes  ascribed  to  Yishnu  in^  some  of  these  passages 
are  such  that,  if  these  latter  stood  alone  in  the  Eig-veda,  they 
might  lead  us  to  suppose  that  this  deity  was  regarded  by  the  Vedic 
Eishis  as  the  chief  of  all  the  gods.  But,  as  we  have  already  seen, 
Indra  is  associated  with  Yishnu  even  in  some  of  those  texts  in  which 
the  latter  is  most  highly  magnified  (as  E.  Y.  i.  155,  1  ff. ;  vi.  69,  1  ff. ; 
vii.  99,  4  if.;  viii.  15,  10);  nay,  in  one  place  (E.  Y.  viii.  12,  27),  the 
power  by  which  YisLnu  takes  his  thr^e  strides  is  described  as  being 
derived  from  Indra;  in  E.  Y.  iv.  18,  11,  vi.  20,  2,  and  viii.  89,  12, 
he  is  the  associate  of  Indfa;  in  another  text  (E.Y.  viii.  15,  9),  Yishnu 
is  represented  as  celebrating  Indra's  praises ;  while,  in  E.  V.  ix.  96,  5, 
Yishnu  is  said  to  have  been  generated  by  Soma. 

It  is  also  a  fact,  notorious  to  all  the  students  of  the  Eig-veda,  that 
the  hymns  and  verses  which 'are  dedicated  to  the  praises  of  Indra,  Agni, 
Mitra,  Yaruna,  the  Maruts,  the  Asvins,  etc.,  are  extremely  numerous ; 
whilst  the  entire  hymns  and  separate  verse's  in  which  Yishnu  is  cele- 
brated are  much  fewer,  and  have  all,  or  nearly  all,  been  adduced  in 
the  preceding  pages. 

The  reader  will  also  have  noticed  that,  in  a  large  number  of  shorter 
passages  which  I  have  cited,  Yishnu  is  introduced  as  the  subject  of 
laudation  among  a  great  crowd  of  other  divinities,  from  whom  he  is 
there  in  no  way  distinguished  as  being  in  any  respect  superior.  From 
this  fact,  we  may  conclude  that  he  was  regarded  by  those  writers  as 
on  a  footing  of  equality  with  the  other  deities. 

Further,  the  Eig-veda  contains  numerous  texts  in  which  the  Eishis 
ascribe  to  Indra,  Yaruna,  and  other  gods,  the  same  high  and  awful  at- 
tributes and  functions  which  are  spoken  of  in  the  hymns  before  cited  as 
belonging  to  Yishnu.  I  shall  quote  a  sufficient  number  of  these  texts 
to  show  that,  in  the  Eig-veda,  Yishnu  does  not  hold  a  higher  rank  than 
several  of  these  other  divinities.  3V,  on  the  other  hand,  we  look  to 
the  large  number  of  texts,  in  which,  as  I  have  gust  stated,  some  of  the 
other  gods  are  celebrated,  and  to  the  comparatively  small  number  of 
those  in  which  Yishnu  is  exclusively  or  prominently  magnified,  we 
shall  come  to  the  conclusion  ^hat  the  latter  deity  occupied  a  somewhat 
subordinate  place  in  the  estimation  and  affections  of  the  ancient  rishis. 


DIVINE  ATTRIBUTES  ASCEIBED  TO  INDRA.  99 

I  shall  first  adduce  a  number  of  passages  in  which  divine  attributes 
and  functions  of  the  highest  character  are  ascribed  to  Indra.11 

R.  V.  i.  7,  3 — Indro  dlvghdya  chakshase  a  silryam  rohayad  divi  ityadi\ 
"  Indra  has  raised  up  the  sun  in  the  sky  to  be  seen  from  afar,"  etc. 

R.  V.  i.  52,  8. —  ....  ayachhathdh  bdhvor  vajram  ayasam  adhdrayo 
divi  a  suryam  drise  \  ....  12.  TV  am  asya  pare  rajaso  vyomanah 
svabhuty-ojdh  atase  dhrishan-manah,  \  chdkrislie  bhumim  pratimdnam 
ojasah  apah  svah  paribhur  eshi  a  divam  \  13.  Tvam  bhuvah  pratimanam 
prithtiyah  rishva-vlrasya  brihatah  patir  bhuh  \  visvam  d  aprdh  anfa- 
riksham  mahitvd  satyam  addhci  nakir  any  as  tvdfitin  \  14.  Na  yasya 
dydvd-prithivl  ami  vyacho  na  sindhavo  rajaso  antam  dnasuh  \  nota  sva- 
vrishtim  made  asya  yudhyatah  eko  anyach  c\aJcrishe  visvam  anushaTc  \ 

"Thou  hast  grasped  in  thine  arms  the  iron  thunderbolt;  thou  hast 
placed  the  sun  in  the  sky  to  be  viewed.  .  ,  .  .  12.  [Dwelling]  on  the 
further  side  of  this  atmospheric  world,  deriving  thy  power  from  thy- 
self, daring  in  spirit,  thou,  for  our  advantage,  hast  made  the  earth,  the 
counterpart'2  of  [thy]  energy;  encompassing  the  waters  and  the  sky, 
thou  reachest  up  to  heave'n.  13.  Thou  art  the  counterpart  of  the 
earth,  the  lord  of  the  lofty  sky,  with  its  exalted  heroes.  Thou*  hast 
filled 73  the  whole  atmosphere  with  thy  greatness.  Truly  there  is  none 
other  like  unto  thee.74  14.  Whose  vastness  neither  heaven  and  earth 
have  equalled,  nor  the  rivers  of  the  atmosphere  have  attained  its 
limit, — not  when,  in  his  exhilaration,  he  fought  against  the  appro- 
priator  of  the  rain  (?) ;  thou  alone  hast  made  everything  else  in  due 
succession." 

R,.  Y.  i.  55,  1. —  Hivas  chid  asya  varimd  vi  paprathe  Indram  na 
mahnd  prithivi  chana  prati  \  "  His  vastness  is  extended  even  beyond 
the  sky :  the  earth  is  not  comparable  to  Indra  in  greatness." 

R.  V.  i.  61,  9. —  Asya  id  eva  praririche  mahitvam  divas  prithivyuh 
pari  antarikshat  ityadi  \  "  Hi£  greatness  transcends  the  sky,  the  earth, 

and  surpasses  the  atmosphere,"  etc. 

i 

71  Compare  the  additional  texts  of  the  same  tenor  in  the  fifth  vol.  of  this  work, 
pp.  99  ff. 

72  Compare  R.  V.  i.  102,  8»  ii.  12,  9  ;    x.  Ill,  5  (below).     The  word  pratimana 
also  occurs  in  R.  V.  x.  138,  3.— See  the  second  volume  of  this  work,  p.  362. 

«  Compare  R.  V.  i.  81,  5  ;  ii.  15,  2  ;  vi.  17,  7  ^  vii.  20,  4  ;  vii.  20,  4 ;  vii.  98,  3 ; 
andx.  134,  1  (below).  ' 

74  Compare  R.  V.  i.  81,  5  ;  iv.  30,  1 ;  vi.  30,  4  ;  and  vii.  32,  23  (below). 


100  TEXTS  OF  THE  EIGVEDA  IN  WHICH 

R.  V.  i.  81,  5. — A  paprau  pdrthivam  rajo  badbadhe  rochand  divi  \  na 
tvdvdn  Indra  kaschana  na  jdto  na  janishyate  ati  vis-vain  vavakshitha  \ 
"He  has  filled  the  terrestrial  region:  he  has  fastened  the  luminaries 
in  the  sky.  No  one  like  thee,  Indra,  hath  heen  born,  or  shall  be  born : 
thou  hast  transcended  the  universe." 

R.  V.  i.  102,  8. — Trivishti-dhdtu  pratimdnam  ojasas  tisro  bhumir 
nripate  trlni  rochand  \  ati  idam  visvam  bhuvanam  catiakshitha  asatrur 
Indra  janushd  sandd  asi  \  "The  three  worlds,  0  king,  the  three 
luminaries  are  a  triple  counterpart  of  [thy]  energy.  Thou  hast 
transcended  this  whole  universe.  By  nature,  Indra,  thou  art  of  old 
without  an  enemy." 75 

R.  V.  i.  103,  2. — Sa  dhdrayat  prithivim  paprathachcha  vajrena  hatvd 
nir  apah  sasarja  \  ahann  Ahim  ityddi  \  "  He  established  the  earth  and 
stretched  it  out ;  smiting  wi*h  the  thunderbolt,  he  let  loose  the  waters. 
He  slew  Ahi,"  etc. 

R.  V.  i.  121,  2. — Stambhid  hd  dydm  ityddi  |  3.  .  .  .  tastambhad 
dydm  chatushpade  nary  ay  a  dvipade  \  "He  has  supported  the  sky,  etc. 

3 He  has  propped  up  the  sky  for  the  four-footed  [beasts],  and 

for  the  two-footed  race  of  man." 

R.  V.  ii.  12,  1  (Nirukta,  x.  10). —  Yo  jdtah  eva  prathamo  manasvdn 
devo  devun  kratund  paryabhushat™  \  Yasya  sushmdd  rodasl  abhyasetdm 
nrimnasya  mahnd  sa  jandsah  Indrah  \  2.  Yah  prithivlm  vyathamdndm 
adrimhad  yah  parvatdn  prakupittin  aramndt  \  yo  antariksham  mmame 

varlyo  yo  dydm  astabhndt  sa  jandsah  Indrah  |  9 Yo  visvasya 

pratimdnam  babhuva  yo  achyuta-chyut  sa  jandsah  Indrah  \  13.  Dydvd 
chid  asmai  prithivl  namete  sushmdch  chid  asya  parvatdh  bhayante 
ityddi  \ 

"  He  who,  immediately  on  his  birth,  the  first,  the  wise,  surpassed 
the  gods  in  force;  at  whose  might  the  two  worlds  shook,  through 
the  greatness  of  his  strength,  he,  0  merf,  is  Indra.  2.  He  who  fixed 

the  quivering  earth;  who  gave  stability  to  the  agitated  mountains; 

f 

"5  Compare  R.V.  viii.  21,  13;  x.  133,  2  (below). 

76  Kratuna  karmana  panjabhmat  paryagrihnat  parffttrakshad  atyakramad  va  .  .  . 
nrimnasya  mahnn  balasya  tnahattvena. — IS'irukta.  <At  the  end  of  the  comment  the 
writer  adds  :  iti  risher  clris/it'irthasya  prltir  bhavaty  akhyana-sannjukta  \  "  Thus 
when  the  rishi  has  seen  the  subject  [of  his  hymn],  gratification  ensues,  conjoined  with 
a  narrative." 


THE  GREATNESS  OF  INDRA  IS  CELEBRATED.      101 

who  measured  ™  the  vast  atmosphere ;  who  propped  up  the  sky,  he,  0 
men,  is  Indra.  9.  .  ,  He  who  has  heen  a  counterpart  of  the  universe; 
who  casts  down  the  unskaken,  he,  0  men,  is  Indra.  ...  13-.  Even  the 
sky  and  the  earth  bow  down  to  him ;  even  of  his  might  the  mountains 
are  afraid,"  etc. 

R.  V.  ii.  15,-jl. — Pro,  gJia  nu  asya  mahato  mahdni  satyd  satyasya 
"karandni  vocham  \  trikadruheshu  apilat  sutasya  asya  made  ahim  Indro 
jaghdna  \  2.  Avamse  dydm  astaibhdyad  Irihantam  d  rodasl  aprinad 
antariksham  \  sa  dhdrayat  prithftim  paprathach  c\a  somasya  to.  made 
Indras  chakdra  \  3.  Sadmeva  prdcho  vi  mimdya  mdnair  ityddi  \ 

"I  declare  the  mighty  deeds  of  this  mighty  one;  the  true  acts  of 
this  true  one.  From  the  three  cups  Indra  drank  of  the  soma,  and  in 
its  exhilaration  he  slew  AM.  2.  He  propped  up  the  vast  sky  in  empty 
space;78  he  hath  filled  the  two  worlds,  and  the  atmosphere.  He  hath 
upheld  the  earth,  and  stretched  it  out.  Indra  has  done  these  things  in 
the  exhilaration  of  the  soma.  3.  He  measured  with  measures  the 
eastern  (regions)  as  an  abode,"  etc. 

E.  V.  iii.  30,  9. — Ni  sdmantim  ishirdm  Indra  bhumim  mahlm  apzram 
sadane  sasattha  \  astabhndd  dydm  vrishabho  antariksJiam  arshantu  dpas 
tvay-eha  prasutdh  \  "Thou,  Indra,  hast  fixed  in  its  place  the  level, 
the  blooming,79  earth,  the  great,  the  boundless.  The  vigorous  god  has 
propped  up  the  sky,  and  the  atmosphere :  may  the  waters  flow,  sent 
forth  now  by  thee." 

B.  Y.  iii.  32,  7. —  Tajdma  id  namasd  vriddham  Indram  Irihantam 
rishvam  ajaram  yuvdnam  \  yasya  priye  mamatur  yajniyasya  na  rodasl 
maUmdnam  mamdte  \  8.  Indrasya  karma  sukritd  puruni  vratdni  devah 
na  minanti  visve  \  dadh&ra  yah  prithivlm  dydm  utemdm  jajdna  sVlryam 
nshasam  sudamsdh  \  9'.  Adrogha  satyam  tava  tad  mahitvam  sadyo  yaj 
jdto  apibo  ha  somam  \  na  dywaah  Indra  tavasas  te  ojo  ndhd  na  mdsdh 
sarado  varanta 80  | 

77  Compare  R.V.  i.  154, 1,  3,  and  the  other  corresponding  passages  above,  p.  69  ff. ; 
and  R.V.  ii.  15,  3,  ipimediat'ily  following.    The  word  here,  however,  may  mean  "  con- 
structed."    "With  the  first  part  of  the  verse  compare  R>.  V.  x.  149,  1,  below  (p.  110). 

78  Compare  R.  V.  x.  149,  \  (below) ;  and  Job  xxvi.  7,  "  He  stretcheth  out  the 
north  over  the  empty  place,  and  'hangeth  the  earth  upon  nothing."     See  also  R.  V. 
x.  111.  5  ;  and  vi.  72,  2  (below).  ,          ^ 

79  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.,  explain  ishira  as  meaning  "fresh,"  "blooming." 

80  Compare  verse  16  of  this  same  hymn,  and  R.  V.  viii.  77,  3  :  Na  tva  brihanto 
adrayo  varante  \  "The  mighty  mountains  do  not  stop  thee."  , 


102 

' 
""We  worship,  with  reverence,  the  mighty  Indra,  the  powerful, 

the  exalted,  the  undecaying,  the  youthful.  j  The  beloved81  worlds 
(heaven  and  earth)  have  not  measured,  nor  do  they  [now]  measure, 
the  greatness  of  this  adorable  being.83  8.  Many  are  the  excellent 
works  which  Indra  has  done;  not  all  the  gods  are  able  to  frustrate 
the  counsels  of  him,  who  established  the  earth,  and  this  sky,  and, 
wonder-working,  produced  the  sun  and  the  dawn.  9.  0  innoxious  god, 
thy  greatness  has  been  veritable  since  that  time  when,  as  soon  as  thou 
wast  born,  thou  did:-t  drink  the  soma-  Neither  the  heavens,  nor  the 
days,  nor  the  months,  nor  the  seasons,  can  resist  the  energy  of  thee 
[who  art]  mighty." 

R.  V.  iii.  44,  3. — Dydm  Indro  haridhdyasam  prithivim  harivarpasam\ 
adhdrayad  ityddi  \  ' '  Indra  ^upheld  the  sky  with  its  golden  supports, 
and  the  earth  with  its  golden  form,1'  etc.83 

R.  Y.  iv.  16,  5. —  Favakshe  Indro  amitam  rijlshl  ubhe  a  prapau  rodasl 
mahitva.  \  atas  chid  asya  mahimd  virechi  abhi  yo  visvd  bhuvand  babhuva  \ 
4 'The  impetuous84  Indra  hath  waxed  immeasurably;  he  has  filled  both 
worlds  with  his  vastness.  Even  beyond  this  extends  the  majesty  of 
him  who  transcends  all  the  worlds." 

R.  V.  iv.  30,  1. — Nakir  Indra  ivad  uttaro  najydydn  asti  Vritrahan\ 
nakir  eva  yathd  tvam  \  "  There  is  none,  Indra,  higher  than  thee,  or 
superior  to  thee,  thou  slayer  of  Vritra;  neither  is  there  any  like  thee." 

R.  Y.  vi.  17,  7. — Pdprdtha  kshdm  mahi  damso  vi  urvim  upa  dydm 
rishvo  brihad  Indra  stabhdyah  \  adJidrayo  rodasl  devaputre  pratne  mdtard 
yahvt  ritasya  \  "  Thou  hast  filled  the  broad  earth  with  thy  mighty 

81  Sayana  explains priye  as  meaning  aparimite,  "immeasurable." — See  vii.  87,  2. 

82  Dr.  Aufrecht  proposes  to  translate  the  last  clause  thus :  "his  beloved  (spouses), 
heaven  and  earth,  imagine,  but  do  not  measure  (= comprehend)  the  greatness  of  this 
holy  being."     He  regards  the  repetition  of  the  root  ma  "  to  measure  "  in  two  different 
forms  as  purposeless,  and  conjectures  that  mamatuh  may  be  the  perfect  of  man,  and 
used  for  mamanatuh  or  mamnatuh.     Compare  the  aorist  amata,  and  sasavan  for 
sasanvan;  see  also  R.  V.  vii.  31,  7  :  Mahan  '~si  yasya  te  'nti  svadhavari  sahah  \  mam- 
nate  Indra  rodasl  \    "  Thou  art  great,  (thou)  to  whose  energy  the  self-supporting 
Heaven  and  Earth  have  submitted  themselves." 

83  In  the  hymn  from  which  ihis  verse  is  taken,  the  changes  are  rung  on  the  words 
hari,  harita,  etc.  „ 

84  See  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon  under  the  word  rij7shin,  and  Benfey's  note 
260,  on  E.V,  i.  32,  6,  in  hi£  "  Orient  und  Occident."     The  verse  before  us  (iv.  16,  5) 
is  translated  by  the  same  author  in  his  Glossary  to  S.Y.,  p.  162.     See  also  his  Glossary 
to  the  Samaveda,  s.v.  rijishin. 


IN  WHICH  INDRA  IS  CELEBRATED.  103 

works;  them,  Indra,  exalte/1,  hast  mightily  propped  up  the  sky; 
thou  hast  supported  the  two  worlds,  of  whom  the  gods  are  the  off- 
spring, the  ancient  and  mighty  parents  of  holy  rites." 

E.  V.  yi.  30,  4. — Satyam  it  tad  na  tvdvdn  anyo  asti  Indra  devo  na 
martyo  jydydn  ityddi  \  "  This  is  a  truth,  there  is  no  other,  god  or 
mortal,  like  t'hep,  Indra,  or  greater  than  thee,"  etc. 

E.  V.  vi.  31,  2. — Tvad-bhiyd  Indra  pdrthivdni  visvd  achyutd  chit 
chydvayante  rajdmsi  \  dydvd-kshdmd  parvatdso  vandni  visvam  drilham 
bhayate  ajmann  d  te  \  "  Through  fear  of  thee,  Indra,  all  the  mundane 
regions,  however  steady,  totter ;  heaven  and  earth,  mountains,  forests, 
everything  that  is  fixed,  is  afraid  at  thy  coming." 

E.  V.  vi.  38,  3. — Tarn  vo  dhiyd  parantayd  purdjdm  ajaram  Indram 
abhi  anushi  arkair  ityddi  \  "I  have  lauded  with  an  excellent  prayer, 
and  with  praises,  thee,  Indra,  born  of  old,  aud  undecaying." 

E.  V.  vii.  20,  4. —  Ulhe  chid  Indra  rodasl  mahitvd  d  paprdtha  ta- 
vishlbhis  tuvishmah  ityddi  \  "Thou,  powerful  Indra,  hast  filled  both 
worlds  with  thy  mighty  deeds,"  etc. 

E.  V.  vii.  32,  16. — Tava  id  Indra  avamam  vasu  tvam  pushy  asi  ma- 
dhyamam  \  satrd  visvasya  paramasya  rdjasi  naTcis  tvd  goshu  vrinvate  \ 
....  22.  Abhi  tvd  &ura  nonumah  adugdhdh  iva  dhenavah  \  Isdnam 
asyajagatah  svardrisam  Isdnam  Indra  tasthushah  \  23.  Na  tvdvdn  anyo 
divyo  na pdrthivo  najdto  najanishyate  ityddi*5  \ 

"Thine,  0  Indra,  is  the  lowest  wealth;  thou  possessest  the  middle; 
verily  thou  rulest  over  all  the  very  highest;  none  resist  thee  among  the 

cattle 22.  "We,  0  heroic  Indra,  like  unmilked  cows,  approach 

with  our  praises  thee  who  art  the  heavenly  lord  of  this  moving,  and 
of  the  stationary  [world].  23.  No  one,  celestial  or  terrestrial,  has 
been  born,  or  shall  be'  born,  like  to  thee." 

E.  V.  vii.  98,  3  (=A.  Y.,20,  87,  3).—  .  .  .  .  A  Indra  paprdtha 
uru  antariksham  yudhd  devebhyo  varivas  chakartha  |  .  .  .  .  "Indra, 
thou  hast  filled  the  wide  sky :  -»thou  hast  by  battle  acquired  freedom 
for  the  gods."  86 


85  This  entire  hymn  is  translated  in  Miiller's  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  pp.  543  ff. 

86  The  words  at  the  close  of  this  verse  occur  also  in  R.V.  i.  59,  5  (see  below).     In 
regard  to  varivah,  compare  R.  V.  i.  63,  7  :  amhyli  rajm^varivah  Furtive  kah  \  "  Thou 
affordedst  relief  to  Puru  from  his  strait."     The  word  occurs  R.  V.  ix.  97,  16,  in  the 
plural,  varivamsi  krinvan.     In  the  Nighantu,  2,  10,  it  is  said  to  mean  "  wealth." 


104  ADDITIONAL  TEXTS  OF  THE  RIGVEDA 

R.  V.  viii.  3,  6  (=S.  V.  ii.  938). — Indro  mahnd  rodasi  paprathach 
chhavah  Indrah  suryam  arochayat  \  Indre  ha  visvd  Ihuvandni  yemire 
ityddi  \  "  The  mighty  Indra  by  his  power  has  spread  out  the  two 
worlds;  Indra  has  lighted  up  the  Sun:  on  Indra  all  the  worlds  are 
supported,"  etc.87 

K.  V.  viii.  21,  13  (  =  S.  V.  1,  399;  A.  V.  20,  114,  1)  —Alhrdtrivyo 
ana  tvam  anupir  Indra  janushd  sandd  asi  \  yudhd  id  dpitvam  ichhase  \ 
"  Indra,  hy  thy  nature,  thou  art  indeed  of  old  without  a  rival,  with- 
out a  fellow.  By  battle  thou  seekest  alliance." 

R.  Y.  viii.  36,  4. — Janitd  divo  janitd  prithivyah  ityddi  \  "Generator 
of  the  sky,  generator  of  the  earth,"  etc.  (Indra). 

E.  V.  viii.  37,  3. — Ekarad  asya  Ikuvanasya  rdjasi  ityddi  \  "  Thou 
rulest  a  sole  monarch  over  this  world,"  etc.  (Indra). 

R.  V.  viii.  51,  2. — Ayujo  asamo  nribhir  ekah  Icrishtir  aydsyah  \ 
purvlr  ati  pravdvridhe  visvd  jdtdny  ojasd  ityddi  \  "  Without  a  fellow, 
unequalled  by  men,  [Indra]  alone,  unconquerable,  has  surpassed  in  power 
many  tribes,  and  all  creatures." 

R.  Y.  viii.  59,  5  (=S.  Y.  i.  278). —  Tad  dydvah  Indra  te  satam  satam 
Ihumir  uta  syuh  \  na  tvd  vajrin  sahasram  surydh  anu  na  jdtam  ashta 
rodasi  \  "If,  Indra,  a  hundred  skies,  and  a  hundred  earths  were  thine, 
a  thousand  suns  could  not  equal  thee,  thunderer,  nor  could  anything 
created,  [nor]  the  two  worlds." 

This  verse  is  quoted  and  briefly  commented  on  in  the  Nirukta  Paris - 
ishtai.  1,  ff. :  Atha  imdh  atistutayah  ity  dchakshate  api  vd  sampratyayah 
eva  sydd  mahdlhdgydd  devatdydh  \  .  .  Yadi  te  Indra  satam  divah  satam 
Ihumayah  pratimdndni  syur  na  tvd  vajrin  sahasram  api  surydh  na  dydvd- 
prithivy&v  apy  alhyasnuvitdm  iti  \  "Now  these  [which  follow]  are 
what  are  called  exaggerated  praises ;  or  they  may  be  expressions  of 
perfect  faith  owing  to  the  grandeur  of  the  ."Deity."  Then,  after  citing 


87  In  the  8th  verse  of  this  hymn  ( =  S.  V.  i,  924  ;  Vaj.  S.  33,  97  ;  A.  V.  20,  99, 
2)  the  following  words  occur  :  asyed  Indro  vavridhe  vrishnyam  savo  made  sutasya 
vishnavi  \  "  Indra  increased  his  fecundating  strength,  in  the  exhilaration  of  this  soma, 
at  the  sacrifice."  Vishnavi,  tht  word  here  rendered  ft  sacrifice,"  is  the  locative 
case  of  vishnu.  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.,  think  tte  word  here  has  this  sense, 
as  the  Brahmanas  frequently  employ  the  phrase  yajno  vai  Vishnuh  \  "  Yishnu  is  the 
sacrifice."  The  commentato'-'  of  tug  Vaj.  Sanhita  explains  it  by  sarva-sarlra- 
vyapake,  "That  which  pervades  the  whole  body."  Sayana,  too,  makes  \i=kritsna- 
dehasya  vyapake  \ 


IN  WHICH  INDRA  IS  CELEBRATED.  105 

t) 

passages  referring  to  Agni  and  Varunii,  the  writer  quotes  the  verse 
before  us,  and  thus  paraphrases  it:  "  If,  Indra,  a  hundred  skies,  a 
hundred  earths  be  the  counterparts  [with  which  thou  art  compared], 
not  even  a  thousand  suns,  0  thunderer,  nor  heaven  and  earth,  can  equal 
thee." 

E.  V.  viii.  67,  5. — Naklm  Indro  nikartave  no,  S'aJcrah  parisalctave 
visvam  srinoti  pasyati  \  "  Indra  is  not  to  be  overcome,  S'akra  is  not  to 
be  overpowered.  He  hears  and  sees  all  things."  88 

E.  Y.  viii.  77,  4. —  Yoddhd  'si  kratvd  savasota.,damsand  visva  jdtd 

.) 

abhi  majmand  \  a  tvd  ayam  arlcah  utaye  vavartati  yam  Gotamdh 
ajljanan  \  5.  (S.  V.  1,  312.)  Pro,  hi  ririkshe  ojasd  divo  anlebhyas*9 
pari  |  na  tva  vivydcha  rajah,  Indra>pdrthivrfm>anu  svadhdm  vavakshitha  \ 

"  A  warrior,  thou  surpassest  all  creatures  in  power,  in  vigour,  in 
exploits,  in  strength.  This  hymn,  which  the  Sotamas  have  generated, 
incites  thee  to  succour  us.  5.  For  by  thy  might  thou  hast  overpassed 
the  bounds  of  the  sky.  The  mundane  region  hath  not  contained  thee  : 
thou  hast  grown  according  to  thine  own  will." 90 

E.  V.  viii.  78,  5  (=S.  V.  ii.  779  f.) — Taj  jdyathdh  apurvya  Maghavan 
Vritra-hatydya  \  tat  prithimm  aprathayas  tad  astalhndh  uta  dydm  \  6. 
Tat  te  yajno  ajdyata  tad  arkah  uta  haslcritih  \  tad  visvam  alhibhur  asi 
yajjdtam  yachcha  jantvam  \  91 

"  "When  thou,  0  unrivalled  Maghavan  (Indra),  wast  born  for  the 
destruction  of  Vritra,  then  thou  didst  spread  out  the  earth,  and  then 
thou  didst  establish  the  sky.  6.  Then  was  thy  sacrifice  produced  ; 
then  thy  hymn  and  thy  song  of  praise.  Then  thou  didst  transcend  all 
things  that  have  been  born,  or  shall  be  born." 

E.  V.  viii.  82,  11. —  "Yasya  te  nu  chid  ddisaih  na  minanti  svardjyam 
na  devo  na  adhrigur  janah  \  "  Whose  command,  and  empire,  no  one, — 
whether  god,  or  audacious  mortal, — can  resist." 

E.  V.  viii.  86,  9. — Na  tvd  devdsah  dsata  na  martydso  adrivah  \  visvd 

^ 

88  This  hymn  is  translated  by  Professor  Miiller,  Zeitsch.  D.  M.  G.  for  1853,  p.  375. 

89  Instead  of  antebhyah  tne  S.  V.  reads  sadobhyah, 

90  At  the  end  of  the  vers»  the  S.  V.  reads  ati  vii&am  vawzkshitha  \  "Thou  hast 
transcended  the  universe."    On  the  sense  of  svadha,  see  Eoth,  Illust.  of  Nir.  pp.  40  f. 
and  132 ;  and  Miiller,  Transl.  of  R.  V.  vol.  i.  pp.  49  ff. 

91  Compare  the  words  yad  bhutam  yachcha  bl\dvyam  !!h  the  Purusha  Sukta,  R.  V. 
i.  90,  2.     See  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  in  the  early  part  of  which  this  entire 
hymn  is  translated. 


106  ADDITIONAL  TEXTS  OF  THE  RIGVEDA 

jdtdni  savasd  abhibkur  asi  ityd&l  \  iO  (S.  Y.  i.  370).  Visvdh  pritandh 
abhibhutaram  naram  92  sajus  tatakshur  Indram  jajanus  cha  rdjase  \  kratvd 
varishtham  vare^  dmurim  uta  ugrum  ojishtham  tavasam  94  tarasvinam  \ 

"  Thee,  0  hurler  of  rocks,  neither  gods  nor  mortals  have  equalled. 
Thou  transceudest  in  power  all  creatures,  etc.  10.  They,  united,  have 
formed  and  generated  for  dominion  the  heroic  Indra,  the  vanquisher  of 
all  armies,  eminent  in  power,  destroyer,  fierce,  strong,  vigorous,  and 
swift." 

•R.  Y.  viii.  87,  2. — Tvam  Indra  abhibhur  asi  tvam  suryam  arochayah  \ 
visvaJcarmd  visvadevo  mahdn  asi  \  "  Thou,  Indra,  art  the  most  powerful ; 
thou  hast  kindled  the  sun ;  thou  art  great,  the  architect  of  all  things, 
and  the  lord  of  all."  ,  „ 

R.  Y.  x.  43,  5  (=A.  Y.  20,  17,  5;  Mr.  5,  22}.—Kritam  na  svaghnl 
vichinoti  devane  samvargark,  yait,  Magnavd  suryam  jay  at  \  na  tat  te  anyo  anu 
vlryam  sakad  na  purdno  Maghavan  na  uta  nutanah  \  "  When  Maghavan 
has  conquered  spoils 95  from  the  sun,  he  is  like  a  gamester  who  gathers 
in  his  gains  at  play.98  No  other,  Maghava,n,  either  old  or  recent,  can 
imitate  that  thy  prowess." 

R.  Y.  x.  48,  3. — Mahyam  Tvashtd  vajram  atakshad  dyasam  mayi  devdso 
avrijann  api  kratutn  \  mama  anlkam  suryasya  na  dustaram  mum  dryanti 
Jcritena  kartvena  cha  \  "Tvashtri  fashioned  for  me  (Indra)  an  iron 
thunderbolt;  into  me  the  gods  have  infused  force.  My  splendour  is 
unsurpassed,  like  that  of  the  sun.  Men  praise  me  for  what  I  have 
done  and  shall  do." 

R.  V.  x.  86,  1  (=A.  Y.  xx.  126,  1). — .  .  .  .  visvasmdd  Tndrah 
uttarah  \  (Repeated  at  the  close  of  every  verse  of  this  hymn.)  ''Indra 
is  superior  to  every  other." 

92  The  Sama-veda  reads  narah. 

93  The  Sama-veda  reads  kratve  vare  sthemany  aaiurim.    It  is  difficult  to  assign  a 
sense  to  vare  in  the  text. 

94  The  Sama-veda  reads  tarasam, 

95  Sayana  explains  samvargam  as  =  samydg  vrishter  varjayitaram  \  "  discharger  of 
rain."     The  word,  as  Dr.  Aufrecht  informs  me.  occurs  oply  once  again  in  the  R.  V. 
viz.  in  viii.  64,  12:  samvargam  sain  rayim  Jay  a  j  and  he  adds  that  the  translation 
"spoils"  is  supported  by  several  passages  of  the  S'.  I.  Br.  e.g.  i.  7,  2,  24  (p.  69) : 
pitur  day  am  upeyuh  .  .  .  katham  nv  imam  api  samvrinjlmahi  (Schol.  apaharemahf): 
Ibid,  samavrinjata,  samvrinkte.     S'.  P.  Br.  i.  9,  2,  34 :  sarvam  yajnam  sanivrijya 
(=samapti-purvam  samhritya}.     In-  the  R.  V.  Indra  is  called  samvrik  samatsu  "  the 
spoiler  in  battles." 

96  The  same  phrases  occur  in  R.  V.  x.  42,  9,  and  A.  V.  7,  50,  6  ;  20,  89,  9. 


IN  WHICH  INDRA  IS  CELEBRATED.  107 

R.  V.  x.  Ill,  1. — Mewlikigah pra  llAiradhvam  mamshtim  yathd  yathd 
matayah  santi  nrintim  \  Indram  satyair  a  Iraydma  kritebhih  sa  hi  vlro 
girvanasyur  vidunah  \  2.  Ritasya  hi  sadaso  dhltir  adyaut  sam  gdrshteyo 
vrishabho  golhir  dnat  \  ud  atishthat  tavishena  ravena  mahdnti  chid 
samvivydcha  rajamsi  \  3.  Indrah  kila  irutyai  asya,  veda  sa  hi  jishnuh 
pathikrit  surydyu  \  ad  mendm  Jcrinvann  achyuto  Ihuvad  goh  patir  divah 
sanajdh  apratltah  \  4.  Indro  mahnd  mahato  arnavasya  vratd  aminud 
Angirolhir  grinanah  \  puruni  chid  ni  tatana  rajamsi  dadhara  yo 
dharunam  satyatutu  \  5.  Indro  divah  pratimdnam  prithivydh  visvd 
veda  savand  hanti  S'ushnam  \  mahlm  chid  dydm  d  atanot  siiryena 
chdskambha  chit  skamlhanena  skalhlydn  \ 

"Sages,  present  the  prayer,  according  ds>are  tlie  various  thoughts  of 
men.  Let  us  move  Indra,  with  his  genuine  acts,  for  he  is  a  hero,  and 
loves  our  hymns.  2.  The  hymn  has  shone1  ftnth  from  the  place  of  sacri- 
fice. The  hull,  offspring  of  a  heifer,  has  approached  the  cows;  he  has 
arisen  with  a  loud  bellowing ;  he  has  embraced  in  himself  the  vast  regions. 
3.  Indra  by  hearing  is  surely  aware  of  this  [hymn].  For  he,  the 
victorious,  has  formed  a  path  for  the  sun,  and  then  creating  the  female 
of  the  bull,  became  the  unshaken,  eternal  and  matchless  lord  of  the  sky 
(compare  R.  Y.  i.  51,  13;  i.  121,  2).  4.  Celebrated  by  the  Angirases, 
Indra  by  his  power  has  defeated  the  designs  of  the  great  streaming 
[cloud-demon] ; 97  he  has  stretched  out  many  worlds,  he  who  has  laid 
a  foundation  in  truth.  5.  Indra,  [who  is]  the  counterpart  of  the 
heaven  and  of  the  earth,  knows  all  libations,  slays  S'ushna ;  with  the 
sun,  he  has  extended  the  vast  sky,  and,  [being]  a  strong  supporter, 
he  has  supported  it  with  a  support." 98 

R.  Y.  x.  133,  2  (=S.  Y.  ii.  1151). — Tvam  sindhun  avasrijah  adJia- 
rdcho  ahann  AJiim  \ '  asatrur"  Indra  jajnishe  visvam  pushyasi  vary  am 
ityddi  \  "Thou  hast  let  loose  the  streams  to  flow  downwards;  thou 
hast  slain  Ahi.  Indra,  thou  hast  been  born  without  a  foe :  thou 
possessest  all  that  is  desirable,"  <?tc. 

R.  Y.  x.  134,  1  (=S.  Y.  i.  379). —  Ubhe  yad  Indra  rodasi  dpaprdtha 


97  That  this  is  the  allusion  in  the  word  arnava  is  shown  by  the  following  passage : 
R.  V.  i.  67,  2. — Indro  mahna  mahato  arnavasga  vi  murdhanam  abhinad  Arbudasya 
ityadi  \  "  Indra  by  his  power  split  asunder  the  hOad  of  "-he  great  streaming  Arbuda," 
etc. 

98  Compare  R.  V.  vi.  72,  2,  below. 


108    TEXTS  OF  THE  RIGVEDA  CELEBRATING  THE  GREATNESS 

ushdh  iva  \  mahdntam  tvd  mahlnhm  samrdjam  charshanlndm  \  devljanitrl 
ajyanad  lhadrd  janitrl  ajijanat™  \  "When  thou,  India,  like  the  dawn, 
didst  fill  both  the  worlds,  a  divine  mother  bore  thee,  the  mighty 
monarch  of  mighty  creatures, — a  gracious  mother  bore  thee." 

How  great  soever  the  attributes  assigned  to  Indra  may  be,  we  see 
that  here  he  is  not  regarded  as  a  self-existent  being,  bu£  as  the  son  of 
a  mother.  See  the  earlier  part  of  the  account  of  this  deity  in  the  fifth 
volume  of  this  work. 

The  two  following;  texts  refer  to  Indra  in  conjunction  with  another 
god: 

R.  Y.  vi.  72,  2. — Indrd-Somd  vdsayatha  ushdsam  ut  suryam  nayatho 
jyotishd  saha  \  upa  dydfh  s!:ambhathu^  skamlhcmena  aprathatam  prithi- 
vlm  mdtaram  vi  \  "  Indra  and  Soma,  ye  cause  the  dawn  to  shine,  ye 
make  the  sun  to  rise  with  t'ne  light.  Ye  have  propped  up  the  sky 
with  a  support,  10°  ye  have  spread  out  the  earth,  the  mother." 

R.  V.  vii.  82,  5. — Indra-  Farund  yad  imdni  chakrathur  visvd  jdtdni 
Ihuvanasya  majmand-  ityddi  \  "  Indra  and  Yaruna,  since  ye  have  made 
all  these  creatures  of  the  world  by  your  power,"  etc. 

The  passages  next  following  celebrate  the  divine  attributes  of  Yaruna : 

R.  Y.  i.  24,  8. —  Urum  hi  rajd  Varunas  chakdra  surydya  panthdm 
anu-etavai  u  ityddi  \  "King  Yaruna  hath  made  a  broad  path  for  the 
sun  to  follow,"  etc. 

R.  Y.  ii.  27, 10. — Tvam  visveshdm  Varuna,  asi  rdjd  ye  cJia  devdh  asura 
ye  cha  martdh  \  "Thou,  divine  Yaruna,  art  king  of  all,  both  of  those 
who  are  gods,  and  of  those  who  are  men." — Quoted  in  Miiller's  Anc. 
Sansk.  Lit.,  p.  534. 

R.  Y  vi.  70,  1. — GJiritavatl  bhuvandndm  abbicriyd  urvl  prithvl  ma- 
dhu-dughe  supesasd  \  dydvd-prithivl  Varunasya  'dharmand  vishkabhite 
of  are  Ihuri-retasd  \  "  Full  of  fatness,  the  pommon  abodes  of  creatures, 
wide,  broad,  dropping  sweetness,  beautiful  in  form,  heaven  and  earth 
are  sustained  asunder  by  the  support  o*  Yaruna,  undecaying,  abundant 
in  fertility." 

R.  Y.  vii.  86,  1. — Dhlrd  tu  asya  mahind  janumshi  vi  yas  tastambha 
rodasi  chid  unl  \  pra  ndkam  rishvafii  nunude  brihantam  dvitd  nakshatram 

paprathach  cha  Ihuma  \   "  Wise  are  his  creations  who  by  his  power 

/         ' 

99  The  last  line  is  repeated  at  the  close  of  each  of  the  five  following  verses. 
100  Compare  R.  V.  ii.  15,  2;  x.  Ill,  5;  and  x.  149,  1,  below. 


OF  INDRA,  SOMA,  VARTINA  AND  SURYA.  109 

propped  asunder  the  two  worlds,  thought  vast.  He  raised  up  the  lofty 
and  wide  firmament,  and  spread  out  apart  the  stars  and  the  earth." — 
This  hymn  is  translated -in  Miiller's  Sansk.  Lit.,  pp.  540  f. 

E.  V.  vii.  87,  1. — Radat  patho  Varunah  surydya  pra  arndmsi  samu- 
driyd  nadlndm  \  sargo  10°*  na  srishto  arvatlr  ritdyan  chakdra  mahir  avanlr 
ahabhyah  \  2.  Atmd  te  vdto  rajah  a  navlnot  pasur  na  bhurnir  yavase  sa- 
savdn loot  |  antar'mahl  brihatl  rodasl  ime  visvd  te  dhdma  Varuna  priydni  \ 

"Varuna  has  opened  out  paths  for  the  sun,  and  the  courses  of 
the  rivers  leading  to  the  ocean.  Like  a  troop  (of  horses)  let  loose, 
following  the  mares,  he  has  mate  great  channels  f6r  the  days.  2.  The 
wind,  thy  breath,  has  sounded  through  the  atmosphere,  like  an  im- 
petuous beast  rushing  along  a  pasture.  Within  [thee  ?]  are  these  two 
great  and  vast  worlds;  all  thy  realms,  0  Varuna,  are  beloved."  101 

R.  Y.  viii.  42,  1. — Astabhndd  dydm  Afiyro  visvaveddh  amimlta  vari- 
mdnam  prithivydh  \  dsldad  visvd  bhuvandni  samrdd  visvd  it  tdni  Varu- 
nasya  vratdni  \  2.  Eva  vanda&va  Varunam  brihantam  namasya  dhiram 
amritasya  gopdm  \  sa  nah  sarma  trivarutham  viyamsad  ityddi  \ 

"The  omniscient  Spirit  \Asurd]  has  propped  up  the  sky;  he  has 
measured 102  the  expanse  of  the  earth ;  he  has  occupied  all  the  w6rlds, 
the  monarch  :  all  these  are  the  achievements  of  Varuna.  2.  Reverence, 
then,  the  mighty  Varuna,  bow  down  before  the  wise  guardian  of  im- 
mortality. May  he  extend  to  us  triple  protection,"  etc. 

The  next  texts  refer  to  the  Sun  (Surya,  Aditya,  or  Savitri) : 

B,.  V.  i.  50,  7. —  Vi  dydm  eshi  rajas  prithv  aha  mimdno  aktulhih  \ 
pasyan  janmdni  Surya  \  "  Thou  traversest  the  sky,  the  broad  expanse, 
measuring  the  days  with  thy  rays;  beholding  created  things,  0  Surya." 

E.  V.  viii.  90,  11,  12  (  =  S.  V.  ii.  1138,  9).— Sad  mahdn  asi  Surya 
bad  Aditya  mahdn  asi  \  mahas  te  sato  mahimd  panasyate  addha  deva 
mahdn  asi  \  Bat  Surya  sravasd  mahdn  asi  satrd  deva  mahdn  asi  \  mahnd 
devdndm  asuryah  purohito  vil'hujyotir  addbhyam  \ 

"  Verily,  Surya,  thou  art  great;  verily,  Aditya,  thou  art  great.     The 
majesty  of  thee  who  art  great  is  celebrated :  certainly,  god,  thou  art 
great.     12.  Verily,  Sutya,  thou  art  great  in  renown:  0  god,  thou  art 
P 

10°*  The  word  sarga  occurs  aluo  in  R.  V.  i.  190,  2;  iii.  33,  4;  vi.  32,  5;  vi.  46,  13. 
wot  jn  regard  to  this  participle,  see  the  note  (82)  on  R.  V.  iii.  32,  7,  above,  p.  102. 

101  See  note  (81)  on  R.  V.  iii.  32,  7,  above,  p.»102. 

102  See  above,  p.  71. 


110  TEXTS  OP  THE  EIGVEDA  IN  WHICH 

truly  great;  through  thy  greatness1  thou  art  the  divine  leader  of  the 
gods,  the  pervading,  irresistible  luminary." 

R.  V.  x.  149,  1. — Savita  yantraih  prithivim  aramndd  asJcambhane 
Savita  dydm  adrimhat  \  asvam  iva  adhukshad  dhunim  antariksham 
aturte  laddham  Savitd  samudram  \  2.  Yatra  samudrah  sJcabhito  m- 
aunad  apdm  napdt  Savita  tasya  veda  \  ato  bhur  atah  ah  utthitafh  rajo  ato 
dydvd-prithivl  aprathetdm  \ 

"  Savitri  has  established  the  earth  by  supports ;  Savitri  has  fixed 
the  sky  in  unsupported  space ; 103  Savitri  has  milked  the  atmosphere, 
which  resembles  a  sounding  horse, — tte  ocean  fastened  in  the  impas- 
sable expanse.  2.  Savitri,  the  son  of  the  waters,  knows  the  place  where 
the  ocean,  supported,  issued  forth.  From  him  the  earth,  from  him  the 
atmosphere  arose ;  from  him  the  heaven  and  earth  extended." 

c 

103  In  later  times,  as  is  well"  known,  the  earth  is  represented  in  Hindu  mythology 
as  resting  on  the  head  of  the  serpent  S'esha,  or  on  some  other  support.  Thus  it  is  said 
in  the  Vishnu  Pur.  ii.  5, 19  (Wilson,  Dr.  Hall's  ed.  ii.  212) :  8a  bibhrat  s'ekharl-bhutam 
a&esham  kshiti-mandalam  \ aste patala-mula-sthah S'esho  ' 6esha-surarchitah\  "S'esha, 
worshipped  hy  all  the  gods,  supports  the  whole  region  *?>f  the  earth  which  forms  a  diadem 
on  his  head,  and  stands  beneath  the  hase  of  Patala."  The  Siddhiintas,  or  scientific 
astronomical  works  of  India,  however,  maintain  that  the  earth  is  unsupported.  Thus 
it  is  said  in  the  Siddhanta-s'iromani,  iii.  2  :  Bhumeh  pindah  sasanka-jna-kavi-ravi- 
kujejyarki-nakshatra-kaksha-vrittair  vritah  son  mrid-anila-salila-vyoma-tejomayo 
'yam  \  nanyadharah  sva-saktyaiva  viyati  niyatam  tisthati  ityadi  \  ...  4.  Murto 
dharta  ched  dharitryas  tad-anyas  tasyapyanyo  'syaivam  atranavastha  \  antye  kalpya 
diet  sva-saktih  kim  adye  kim  no  bhumir  ityadi  \  which  is  thus  translated  by  the  late 
Mr.  L.  Wilkinson  in  the  Bibl.  Indica  (new  series),  No.  13  :  "  2.  This  globe  of  the 
earth  formed  of  [the  five  elementary  principles]  earth,  air,  water,  the  ether,  and  fire, 
is  perfectly  round,  and  encompassed  by  the  orbits  of  the  Moon,  Mercury,  Venus,  the 
Sun,  Mars,  Jupiter,  and  Saturn,  and  by  the  constellations.  It  has  no  [material]  sup- 
porter ;  but  stands  firmly  in  the  expanse  of  heaven  by  its  own  inherent  force.  On 
its  surface  throughout  subsist  [in  security]  all  animate  an^inanimate  objects,  Danujas 
and  human  beings,  gods  and  Daityas."  ..."  4.  If  the  earth  were  supported  by  any 
material  substance  or  living  creature,  then  that  would  require  a  second  supporter, 
and  for  that  second  a  third  would  be  required.  ,  Here  we  have  the  absurdity  of  an 
interminable  series.  If  the  last  of  the  series  be  supposed  to  remain  firm  by  its  own 
inherent  power,  then  why  may  not  the  same  power  be  supposed  to  exist  in  the  first — 
that  is,  in  the  earth  ?  For  is  not  the  edrth  one  of  the  forms  of  the  eight-fold 
divinity,  i.e.  of  S'iva  ?"  Arya  Bhatta,  one  of  the  most  ancient  of  Indian  scientific 
astronomers,  even  maintained  that  the  alternation  of  day  and  night  is  the  result  of 
the  rotation  of  the  earth  on  its'  own  axis.  His  words,  <  s  quoted  by  Mr.  Colebrooke 
(Essays,  ii.  p.  392),  are  these :  Bha-panjarah  sthiro  bhur  evavrityavritya pratidaivasikav 
udayastamayau  sampadayati  nakshatra-grahanam  \  "  The  starry  firmament  is  fixed. 
It  is  the  earth,  which,  continually '  revolving,  produces  the  rising  and  setting  of  the 
constellations  and  planets." 


SAVITRI,  AGN2,  AND  "PARJANYA  ARE  CELEBRATED.          HI 

The  first  of  the  preceding  verses  is  ^quoted  by  Taska  (Nir.  x.  32), 
and  illustrated  as  follows :  S'avUdyantraihprithimmaramayat  \  andram- 
bhane  'ntarikshe  Savitd  dydm  adrimhat  \  asvam  iva  adhukshad  dhunim 
antarikshe  megTiam  baddham  aturte  baddham  aturne  iti  va  'tvaramune 
iti  vd  Savitd  samuditdram  iti  \  ham  anyam  madhyamdd  evam  avakshyat  \ 
Adityo  'j)i  Savitd  vchyate.  "Savitri  by  supports  has  caused  the  earth 
to  rest;  Savitri*  has  fixed  the  sky  in  the  place  which  has  no  basis — 
the  atmosphere.  Savitri  has  milked  the  cloud  fastened  in  the  atmo- 
sphere,— the  impassable,  or  the  unhastening — (the  cloud)  sounding  .as 
a  horse,  and  that  which  rises.  What  other  god  than  the  intermediate 
one  (i.e.  the  deity  residing  in  the  atmosphere)  would  he  have  thus 
described?  The  sun  also  (whose  place  is  in,  the  sky)  is  called  Savitri." 

Prof.  Eoth  (Illust.  of  Mr.,  ^p.  143)  thus  translates  the  verse: 
"  Savitri  has  fixed  the  earth  with  support^  he  has  fastened  the  heaven 
in  unsupported  space;  he  has  milked  the  atmosphere  shaking  itself 
like  a  horse,  the  stream  which  is  confined  within  limits  which  cannot 
be  overpassed."  In  his  Lexicon,  however,  Prof.  Roth  gives  to  dhuni 
the  sense  of  "  sounding  "  (which  is  also  adopted  by  Prof.  M.  Miiller, 
Transl.  of  R.  V.  i.  95).  He  then  observes :  "According  to  Yaska  the 
Savitri  who  is  here  mentioned  must  be  the  intermediate  one,  on  account 
of  his  function  in  causing  rain." 

The  following  passages  refer  to  Agni : 

R.  V.  i.  59,  5. — Divas  chit  te  brihato  Jdtavedo  vaisvdnara  pro,  ririche 
mahitvam  \  rdjd  krishfindm  asi  mdnmhmdm  yudhd  devebhyo  varivas 
chakartha  \  "  Jatavedas,  present  with  all  men,  thy  greatness  surpasses 
even  that  of  the  vast  sky.  Thou  art  the  king  of  human  creatures ; 
by  battle  thou  hast  obtained  freedom  for  the  gods"  (see  R.  V.  vii.  98, 
3,  above  p.  103). 

R.  Y.  i.  67,  3. — Ajo  na  kshdm  dddhdra 1C3*  prithivim  tasthamlha  dydm 
mantrebhih  satyair  ityddi  \  "Like  the  moving  [sun,  or  the  unborn]  he 
upheld  the  broad  earth;  he  supported  the  sky  with  true  texts,"  etc. 

The  next  verses  celebrate  the  greatness  of  Parjanya : 

R.  V.  ii.  101,  4. — Jasmin  visvdni  bhuvandni  tasthus  tisro  dydvas 
tredhd  sasrur  dpah  itya-di  \  6.  Sa  retodhdh  vrislidbhah  sasvatlndm 
tasminn  dtmd  jagatas  tastushascha  \  (Compare  R.  V.  i.  115,  1.)  "He 

1KJ*  Comp.  R.  V.  viii.  42,  10:  —  Yah  sJ&mbhena  vi  rodast  ajo  na  dyam 
adharayat  \ 


112    TEXTS  CELEBRATING  THE  GKEATNESS  OF  SOMA. 

in  whom  all  the  worlds  abide,  ands  the  three  heavens,  and  [by  whom]  • 
the  waters  flowed  in  three  directions,  etc;  6.  He  is  the  bull  that  im- 
pregnates all  [the  cows]  :  in  him  is  the  soul  of  the  moving  and  station- 
ary world"  (comp.  suryah  dtmdjagatas  tastushai  cha,  R.  V.  i.  115,  1). 

The  next  passage  refers  to  the  god  called  Gandharva : 

R.  V.  x.  139,  5. — .  .  .  .  Divyo  Gandharvo  rajaso  vimdnah  \  "The 
divine  Gandharva,  measurer  of  the  world,"  etc.  f 

The  last  set  of  passages  which  I  shall  adduce  celebrate  the  greatness 
of  Soma : 

R.  V.  ix.  61,  16  (=S.  V.  1,  484}.^JPavamdno  ajyanad  divas  chitram 
na  tanyatum  \  jyotir  vaisvdnaram  Irihat  \  "  The  purified  [Soma]  has 
generated  the  great  light  which  is  common  to  all  mankind,  like  the 
wonderful  thundering  of  the  sky." 

R.  V.  ix.  86,  28. — Tavenfdh  prajdh  divyasya  retasas  tvam  visvasya 
bhuvanasya  rdjasi  \  athedam  visvam  pavamdna  te  vase  tvam  Indo  pra- 
thamo  dhdmadhdh  asi  \  29.  Tvam  samudro  a&i  visvavit  leave  tavemdh 
pancha  pradiso  vidharmani  \  tvam  dydm  cha  prithivlm  chdti  jalhrishe 
tava  jyotlihshi  pavamdna  suryah  \  30.  TV  dm  pavitre  rajaso  vidharmani 
deveb'hyah  soma  pavamdna  puyase  \  tvdm  Usijah  prathamdh  agrilhnata 
tubhyemd  visvd  Ihuvandni  yemire  \ 

\J  «/  I 

"  All  these  creatures  spring  from  thy  divine  seed ;  thou  art  the  lord 
of  the  whole  universe.  All  this,  purified  god,  is  under  thy  control ; 
thou,  Indu,  art  the  first  sustainer  of  the  regions.  29.  Thou,  sage,  art 
an  all-containing  ocean ;  all  these  five  quarters  of  the  world  are  upheld 
by  thee.  Thou  hast  ascended  beyond  the  sky  and  the  earth ;  thine, 
0  purified  god,  are  the  luminaries  and  the  sun.  30.  In  the  filter 
which  is  the  support  of  the  world,  thou,  pure  Soma,  art  purified  for 
the  gods.  The  Usijes  first  gathered  thee.  To  thee  all  these  worlds 
have  bowed." 

R.  V.  ix.  89,  6. —  Vishtamlho  diw  dharunah  prithivydh  visvdh  uta 
Tcshitayo  haste  asya  ityddi  \  "He  is  the  supporter  of  the  sky,  the 
upholder  of  the  earth  :  all  men  are  in  his  hand." 

R.  V.  ix.  96,  5,  which  has  been  quoted  above  (p.  94),  should  be 
again  referred  to  here.  •  , 

R.  V.  ix.  97,  24. — Pavitrelhih  pavamdno  nrichakshdh  rdjd  devdndm 
uta  martydndm  ityddi<{\  "  [Soma],  purified  by  filters,  the  beholder  of 
men,  is  the  king  of  gods  and  of  mortals,"  etc. 


PROFESSOR  MUlLER'S'  REMARKS  ON  THE  VEDIC  GODS.     113 

R.  V.  ix.  100,  8. — Pavamdna  mahi  $rc®as  chitrebhir  ytisi  rasmtbhih  1M  | 
sardhan  tamdihsi  jighnase  visvdni  ddsusho  grihe  \  9.  TV  am  dt/dm  cha  mahi- 
vrata  prithivlm  chdti  jalhrishe  ityiidi  \  "Thou,  pure  [Soma],  marches! 
onward  to  great  renown,  by  thy  brilliant  rays ;  daring,  thou  wiliest  to 
destroy  all  darkness  in  the  house  of  thy  worshipper.  9.  Thou,  achiever 
of  great  deeds,  hast  ascended  above  heaven  and  earth,"  etc. 

R.  Y.  ix.  107?  7. —  .  .  .  TV  am  Icavir  abhavo  deva-vltamah  d  suryam 
rohayo  divi  \  "Thou  art  a  sage  most  pleasing  to  the  gods;  thou  hast 
caused  the  sun  to  rise  in  the  sky." 

R.  Y.  ix.  109,  4  (  =  S-  Y.  ii.  $91). — Pavasva  soma  mahdn  samudrah 
pita  devdndm  visvd  abhi  dhdma  \  "  Be  purified  in  all  abodes,  Soma, 
[who  art]  a  great  ocean,  the  father  of  the^gpds,"  etc. 

The  preceding  texts  are  amply  sufficient  to  show  that  Yishnu  is  not 
the  only  god  to  -whom,  the  highest  divine  functions  are  ascribed  in  the 
Yeda,  but  that,  on  the  contrary,  the  same  attributes  are  assigned,  and 
with  far  greater  frequency,  to  several  of  the  other  deities. 

The  following  passage  from  Professor  H  tiller's  Ancient  Sanskrit 
Literature  (p.  532  f.)  shows  that  all  the  principal  Yedic  deities  are,  in 
their  turn,  addressed  by  their  worshippers  as  supreme  : 

"  "When  these  individual  gods  are  invoked,  they  are  not  conceived  as 
limited  by  the  power  of  others  as  superior  or  inferior  in  rank.  Each 
god  is  to  the  mind  of  the  supplicants  as  good  as  all  the  gods.  He  is 
felt,  at  the  time,  as  a  real  divinity,  as  supreme  and  absolute,  in  spite  of 
the  necessary  limitations  which,  to  our  mind,  a  plurality  of  gods  must 
entail  on  every  single  god.  All  the  rest  disappear  for  a  moment  from 
the  vision  of  the  poet,  and  he  only  who  is  to  fulfil  their  desires  stands 
in  full  light  before  the  eyes  of  the  worshippers.  '  Among  you,  0  gods, 
there  is  none  that  is^mall,  none  that  is  young:  you  are  all  great 
indeed,' 105  is  a  sentiment  which,  though,  perhaps,  not  so  distinctly 
expressed  as  by  Manu  Yaivasvata,  nevertheless,  underlies  all  the  poetry 
of  the  Yeda.  Although  the  gods  are  sometimes  distinctly  invoked  as 
the  great  and  the  small,  the  young  and  the  old  (R.  Y.  i.  27,  13),  this  is 
only  an  attempt  to  finfl  the  most  comprehensive  expression  for  the 
divine  powers,  and  nowhere  is  any  of  the  gods  represented  as  the  slave 

104  Compare  R.  V.  ix.  4,  1 :  Sana  cha  Soma  JesJti  cha  pqvamana  mahi  sravah  \  and 
ix.  83,  5  :  Jayan  iravo  Irihat  \ 

105  R.  V.  viii.  30,  1,  quoted  by  Miiller,  p.  531. 

VOL.   IV.  l  '8 


114       TEXTS  OF  THE  RIG  AND  ATHARVA  VEDAS 

of  others.  It  would  be  easy  to  find,  in  the  numerous  hymns  of  the 
Yeda,  passages  in  -which  almost  every  single  god  is  represented  as 
supreme  and  absolute.  In  the  first  hymn  cf  the  Second  Mandala, 
Agni  is  called  the  ruler  of  the  universe,106  the  lord  of  men,  the  wise 
king,  the  father,  the  brother,  the  son,  and  friend  of  men ; 107  nay,  all  the 
powers  and  names  of  the  others  are  distinctly  ascribed  to  Agni.  The 
hymn  belongs,  no  doubt,  to  the  modern  compositions;  yet,  though 
Agni  is  thus  highly  exalted  in  it,  nothing  is  said  to  disparage  the 
divine  character  of  the  other  gods.  Indra  is  celebrated  as  the  strongest 
god  in  the  hymns  as  well  as  in  the  Brihmanas,  and  the  burden  of  one 
of  the  songs  of  the  Tenth  Book 108  is :  Visvasmdd  Indra  uttarah  \  '  Indra 
is  greater  than  all.'  Of  Soraa  it  is  said  that  he  was  born  great,  and 
that  he  conquers  every  one.109  He  is  called  the  king  of  the  world,110  he 
has  the  power  to  prolong  theJife  of  men,111  and  in  one  verse  he  is  called 
the  maker  of  heaven  and  earth,  of  Agni,  of  Surya,  of  Indra,  and  of 
Yishuu.112  If  we  read  the  next  hymn,  which  is  addressed  to  Yaruna 
(ovpavSs},  we  perceive  that  the  god  here  invoked  is,  to  the  mind  of 
the  poet,  supreme  and  almighty.  Nevertheless,  he  is  one  of  the  gods 
who  is  almost  always  represented  in  fellowship  with  another,  Mitra;  and 
even  in  our  hymn  there  is  one  verse,  the  sixth,  in  which  Yaruna  and 
Mitra  are  invoked  in  the  dual.  Yet  what  more  could  human  language 
achieve,  in  trying  to  express  the  idea  of  a  divine  and  supreme  power, 
than  what  our  poet  says  of  Yaruna :  '  Thou  art  lord  of  all,  of  heaven 
and  earth.'  Or,  as  is  said  in  another  hymn  (ii.  27,  10),  '  Thou  art  the 
king  of  all;  of  those  who  are  gods,  and  of  those  who  are  men,'"  etc. 

SECT.  III. —  Vishnu  as  one  of  the  Adityas. 

In  the  hymns  of  the  Yeda  the  Adityas,  or  sons  of  Aditi,  are  alluded 
to  as  being  seven  or  eight  in  number ;  but  only  six  deities,  of  whom 
Yishnu  is  not  one,  are  specified  by  name  as  belonging  to  this  class.113 

106  "Tvam  vis'vani  svanlka  patyase  \  ii.  1,  8. — See  Nirukta  Paris'ishta  i. 

107  ii.  1,  9.  los  x.  86.  ,       1(>9  ix.  59. 

110  ix.  96,  10  :  bfiuvanasya  raja.  m  ix.  96,  14.  m  ix.  96,  5. 

113  See  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon  under  the  -word  Aditya  ;  Prof.  Roth's  dis- 
sertation on  the  Adityas  in  his  paper  "  on  the  principal  gods  of  the  Arian  nations," 
Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  (Society,  vol.  vi.,  pp.  68  ff. ;  and  the  5th  vol.  of  this 
work,  pp.  54  ff.  Surya  (tbe  Sim)  is  however  called  Aditeya  in  R.  V.  x.  88,  11 
(Nir.  vii.  29). 


AND  BKAHMANAS  DELATING  TO  THE  ADITYAS.  115 

The  following  are  the  only  texts  v»hich  I  consider  it  necessary  to  cite 
on  this  subject : 

R.  V.  ii.  27,  1  (Mr...  xii.  36). — Imdh  girah  Adityelhyo  ghritamuh 
sanddrdjalhyo  juhvajiihomi  \  srinotu  Mitro  Aryamd  Bhago  nas  tuvydto 
Varuno  Daksho  Amsah  \  "With  my  tongue  I  of  old  offer  up  these  praises, 
dropping  with  unctuousness,  to  the  kings,  the  Adityas :  may  Mitra, 
Aryaman,  BhagA,  the  mighty  Varuna,  Daksha,  Ansa,  hear  us."  Yaska 
makes  tuvijatah  to  \)e  =  bahujdtas  cha  Dhdtd,  thus  understanding  it  to 
designate  Dhatri,  as  a  seventh  Aditya. 

R.  V.  ix.  114,  3. — Sapta  dis&  ndnd-surydh  sapta  hotdrah  ritvijah  \ 
devdh  Aditydh  ye  sapta  telhih  Somdbhiraksha  nah  \  "The  seven  points 
of  the  compass,  with  their  respective  suns,  the  seven  hotri  priests,  and 
the  seven  gods,  the  Aditj'as, — with  these,  0  Soma,  protect  us." 

In  another  text  (R.  Y.  x.  72,  8,  9),  wHich^has  already  been  quoted 
in  p.  12  f.,  it  is  said  that  Aditi  had  eight  sons,  though  she  only  presented 
seven  of  them  to  the  gods,  and  cast  out  Martancla,  the  eighth. 

In  his  explanation  of  the  first  text,  which  I  have  now  quoted  (R.  V. 
ii.  27,  1),  Sayana  observes  of  the  Adityas:  Te  cha  Taittiriye  ' ashtau 
putrdso  Aditer '  ity  upakramya,  spashtam  anulcrdntdh  \  '  Mitrascha  Va- 
runascJia  Dhdtdcha  Aryamdcha  Amiuscha  Bhagascha  Indrascha  Vivas- 
vdms  cha  ete"1  iti  \  "They  (the  Adityas)  are  distinctly  specified  in  the 
passage  of  the  Taittiriya,  beginning  with  the  words,  '  The  eight  sons 
of  Aditi,'  as  '  these,  Mitra,  Varuna,  Dhatri,  Aryamau,  Ansu,  Bhaga, 
Indra,  and  Vivasvat.'" 

In  a  passage  of  the  Satapatha  Brahmana  (iii.  1,  3,  3  ff.)  quoted  above 
(p.  14,  f.),  the  Adityas  are  alluded  to  as  eight  in  number,  in  conformity 
with  the  text  of  the  R.  V.  x.  72,  8,  9.  In  other  texts  of  the  same 
Brahmana  mention  is  made  of  twelve  Adityas. 

Yishnu,  as  is  remarked  by  Messrs.  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.,  is  men- 
tioned along  with  the  Adityas  [of  the  R.  V.,  and  other  gods  with 
whom  they  were  afterwards  associated]  in  A.  Y.  xi.  6,  2  :  Brumo  rdjd- 
nam  Varunam  Mitrafh  Vishnum  atho  Bhagam  \  Afiisam  Vivasvantam 
brumas  te  no  munchantti  amhasah  \  3  |  Brumo  devam  Savitdram  Dhdturam 
^lta  Pushanam  \  Tvashtdr&m  agriyam  Irumah  p'We  invoke  King  Varuna, 
Mitra,  Vishnu,  Bhaga,  Ansa,  Vivasvat.  May  they  free  us  from  calamity. 
3.  We  invoke  the  God  Savitri,  DhatrJ^  Pushan,  and  Tvashtri  the 
chief,"  etc. 


116  BRAHMANA  TEXTS  ABOUT  THE  ADITYAS. 

The  following  are  two  passages  of  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  in  which 
mention  is  made  of  the  Adityas  as  being  twelve  in  number. 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  yi.  1,  2,  8. — Sa  manasa  eva  vdcham  mithunam 
samabhavat  sa  dvadasa  drapsdn  garbhy  abhavat  \  te  dvddasa  Aditydh 
asrijyanta  tun  dikshu  upddadhdt  \  "  With  his  mind  he  associated  con- 
jugally with  Speech.  He  became  pregnant  with  twelve  drops.  They 
were  created  the  twelve  Adityas.  Them  he  placed  in-  the  quarters  of 
the  horizon." 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xi.  6,  3,  8  (=Brih.  Ar.  Up.  iii.  9,  5,  p.  646). 
Katame  Aditydh  iti  \  dvddasa  mdsdh  ^amvatsarasya  ete  Aditydh — ete 
hi  idam  sarvam  ddaddndh  yanti  \  te  yad  idafii  sarvam  ddaddndh  yanti 
tasmdd  Aditydh  iti  \  "  How  many  Adityas  are  there  ?  There  are 
twelve  months  of  the  year.  These  are  the  Adityas.  For  they  go  on 
taking  (ddaddndh}  all  this.  dSince  they  go  on  taking  all  this,  they  are 
called  Adityas." 

The  Taittirlya  Brahmana,  iii.  9,  21,  1,  tells  a  story  of  the  Adityas: 
Adityas  cha  Angirasas  cha  suvarge  loke  'spardhanta  \  te  'nyirasah 
Adityelhyo  ''mum  Adityam  asvam  svetam  Ihutam  dakshindm  anayan  \  te 
'bruvan  "yam  no  'neshta  sa  varyo  'bhud"  iti  \  tasmdd  asvam  savarya  ity 
dhvayanti  \  tasmdd  yajne  varo  dlyate  \  yat  Prajdpatir  dlabdho  'svo  'bhavat 
tasmdd  asvo  ndma  \  yat  svayad-arur  dslt  tasmdd  arvd  ndma  \  yat  sadyo 
vdjdn  samajayat  tasmdd  vdjl  ndma  \  yad  asurdndm  lokdn  ddaita  tasmdd 
Adityo  ndma  \  "  The  Adityas  and  the  Angirases  strove  in  heaven.  The 
Angirases  brought  that  Aditya,  who  had  become  a  white  horse,  to  the 
Adityas  as  a  present.  The  latter  said,  '  He  whom  you  have  brought 
to  us  has  become  excellent  (vary a}.'  Hence  men  call  to  a  horse, 
o  savarya.  Hence  a  boon  (vara)  is  given  at  a  sacrifice.  Inasmuch  as 
Prajapati  when  sacrificed  became  a  horse  (asva,  which  means  "pervad- 
ing," according  to  the  commentator),  he  has  the  name  of  asva.  Inas- 
much as  he  suffered  pain  from  swelling  (so  the  commentator  renders 
svayad-aruh,  stating  that  Prajapati  suffered  from  a  swollen  eye),  he  is 
called  arvan.  Inasmuch  as  he  conquered  riches  [or,  in  races]  (vdja),  he 
got  the  name  vdjin.  Inasmuch  as  he  took  (u.'latta'}  from  the  Asuras 
their  worlds,  he  is  called  'Aditya" 

The  Taitt.  Aranyaka,  i.  14,  1,  also  derives  Aditya  from  the  root 
a+da  :  Yo  'sau  tapann  f.deti  Sit  sarveshdm  bhutdndm  prdndn  dddya  udeti  I 
md  me  prajdydh  md  pasundm  md  mama  prdndn  addya  udagdh  \  asau  yo 


VARIOUS  ETYMOLOGIES  OF  THE  WORD  ADITYA.  117 

'      j 

'stam  eti  sa  sarveshdm  bhiitdnam  prdndn  dddya  astam  eti  \  md  me  prajti- 
ydh  md  pasundm  md  nama  prdndn  dddya  astam  gdh  \  "That  [Sun] 
which  rises  glowing,  rises  taking  the  breath  of  all  creatures.  Do  not 
rise  [0  Sun],  taking  the  breath  of  my  offspring,  or  of  my  cattle,  or  of 
myself.  That  [Sun]  which  sets,  sets  taking  the  breath  of  all  creatures. 
Do  not  set  [0  9un],  taking  the  breath  of  my  offspring,  or  of  my  cattle, 
or  of  myself." 

The  Mrukta,  ii.  13,  gives  various  etymologies  of  the  word  Aditya : 
Adityah  \  Jcasmdd  \  ddatte  ratun  \  ddatte  bhdsam  jyotisham  \  ddlpto 
bkdsti  iti  vd  \  Aditeh  putrah  iti  vd  \  alpaprayogam  tu  asya  etad  drchti- 
bhydmndye  \  sukta-bhdk  "  suryain  aditey/im"  Aditeh  putram  \  evam 
anydsdm  api  devatdntim  Adityap'ravdddh  stutayo  lhavanti  \  tad  yathd 
etad  |  Mitrasya  Varunasya  Aryamno  Daktkasya  Bhagasya  Amsasya  iti  \ 

11  The  Aditya:  whence  [so  called]  ?  He  takes  up  the  fluids.114  He 
takes  up  the  light  of  the  luminaries ;  he  is  illuminated  (ddiptaK)  by 
light ;  or,  he  is  the  son  of  Aditi.  But  this  [appellation]  is  seldom 
applied  to  him  in  the  text  of  the  Kigveda.  Surya  Aditeya,  Surya  the 
son  of  Aditi,  is  mentioned  in  a  hymn.115  In  the  same  way  there  are 
praises  of  other  deities,  addressed  to  them  as  Adityas ;  as  in  the  case 
of  Mitra,  Varuna,  Aryaman,  Daksha,  Bhaga,  Ansa." 

In  the  following  texts  from  the  Mahabharata  and  Puranas,  the 
Adityas,  though  their  names  are  not  always  uniformly  given,  are  stated 
or  understood  to  be  twelve  in  number,  except  in  one  case  where  only 
eleven  are  specified.  Vishnu  is  almost  always  named  as  one  of  them, 

114  Sahasra-gunam  utsrashtum  adatte  hi  rasan  ravih  \  "  For  the  sun  takes  up  the 
fluids  [from  the]  earth,  tc»  discharge  them  again  a  thousand-fold." — Raghuvans'a, 
i.  18.     In  the  hymn  to  the  Sun,  Mahabh.  iii.  166  ff.,  it  is  similarly  said,  v.  179: 
Tvam  adayaihsubhis  tejo  nidaghe  sarva-dehinam  \  sarvaushadhi-rdsanam  cha  punar 
varshasu  munchasi  \  "  Having  in  the  hot  season  taken  up  hy  the  rays  the  snhstance 
of  all  embodied  beings,  and  the  essence  of  all  plants,  thou  again  dischargest  them  in 
the  rainy  season."     And  Manu  says :  yishtau  masan  yatha  "dityas  toyam  harati 
rasmibhih  \  tatha  haret  Jcaram  rashtrad  nityam  arkavratam  hi  tat  \  "  As  Aditya  (the 
sun)  during  eight  months  iraws  up  water  by  his  rays,  so  let  him  (a  king)  extract 
revenue  from  his  country,  for  that  is  his  continual  solrr  function." — Manu,  ix.  305. 

115  Dr.  Aufrecht  conjectures  that  the  word  sukta-bhak  should  be  read  asukta-bhak 
"has  not  a  hymn  devoted  to  him';"  as  be  appears  to  be  only  mentioned  in  one  verse, 
R.  V.  x.  88,  11  (Nir.  vii.  29).    Durga,  however,  tis  quoted  by  Roth  (Iliust.  p.  21), 
says :  sukta-bhag  eva  chaitad  abhidhanam  na  Jiavirbhak  \  "  This  appellation  has  a 
hymn  devoted  to  it,  but  no  oblation  is  ordained  [to  be  offered  to  the  god  under  this 
name]."     By  "  hymn"  Durga  may  only  mean  part  of  a  hymn.  , 


118  TEXTS  OF  THE  MAHAEHARATA  AND  VISHNU 

r       l 
and  as  by  the  time  when  these  works  were  written,  his  dignity  had 

hecome  enhanced  in  general  estimation,  he,  is  declared  to  he  the 
greatest  of  the  twelve. 

Mahabharata,  i.  2,519,  2,522  ff. — Marlcheh  Easyapah  putrah 
Kasyapdt  tu  imdh  prajdh  \  prajajnire  mahdbhdgdh  Daksha-kanyds 
trayodasa  |  .  .  .  .  2,522.  Adity^im  dvddasdditydh  'sambhutdh  bhu- 
vanesvardh  \  ye  rdjan  ndmatas  tarns  te  kirtayishydmi  Bhdrata  \  Dhdtd 
Mitro  ''ryamd  tfakro  Varunas  tv  Amsah  eva  cJia  \  Bhago  Fivasvdn  Pushd 
cha  Savitd  dasamas  tathd  \  ekddasas  dathd  Tvashtd  dvddaso  Vishnur 
uchyate  \  jaghanyajas  tu  sarveshdm  Aditydndm  gunddhikah  \ 

"  Kasyapa  was  the  son  of,  Marlchi ;  and  from  Kasyapa  these  beings 
were  born.  There  were  thirteen  eminent  daughters  of  Daksha  . . .  2,522. 
I  will  recount  to  thee,  by  n?)me,  king  of  the  race  of  Bharata,  the  twelve 
Adityas,  lords  of  the  world,  who  were  produced  from  Aditi ; 116  Dhatri, 
Mitra,  Aryaman,  Sakra  (Indra),  Varuna,  Ansa,  Bhaga,  Yivasvat, 
Pushan,  and  Savitri  the  tenth;  the  eleventh  is  Tvashtri,  and  the 
twelfth  is  called  Vishnu,  who,  though  th'e  latest  bom,  surpasses  all 
the  Adityas  in  his  attributes." 

Mahabharata,  i.  2,598. — Maricheh  Kasyapah  putrah  Kasyapasya 

Surdsurdh  \  jajnire  nripa-sdrdula  lolcdndm  prabhavas  tu  sah  \ 

2,600.  Dvddasaivdditeh  putrdh  S'aJcra-mukhydh  narddhipa  \  teshdm 
avarajo  Vishnur  yatra  lokdh  p-ratishthitdh  \ 

"  From  Kasyapa,  who  was  the  son  of  Marlchi,  were  produced,  0  king, 
the  deities  (Suras)  and  the  Asuras ;  and  he  was  the  source  from  which 
all  beings  sprang.  .  .  .  2,600.  Aditi  had  twelve  sons,  beginning  with 
Sakra.  The  youngest  of  them  was  Vishnu,  on  whom  the  worlds  are 
supported." 

Mahabharata,  xiii.  7,092  f. — Amso  Bhagascha  Mitrascha  Varunascha 
jalesvdrah  \  tathd  Dhdtd  'ryamd  chaiva  Jayanto  Bhdskaras  tathd  \ 
Ttashtd  Pushd  tathaivendro  dvddaso  Vishnur  uchyate  \  ity  ete  dvadafa- 
ditydh  Kdsyapeydh  iti  srutih  \ 

"  Ansa,  Bhaga,  Mitra,  Varuna,  lord  of  the  waters,  Dhatri,  Aryaman, 
Jayanta,  Bhaskara,  Tvash'tri,  Pushan,  Indra,  £Lad  Vishnu,  who  is  called 


116  In  the  hymn  to  the  sun,  Mahabh.  iii.  166  ff.,  it  is  said  that  that  Luminary, 
•dividing  himself  twelvefold,  became  the  twelve  Adityas  (kritva  dvadaisadha  "ttnanam 
gat  ah}. 


PURANA  REGARDING  THE  ADITYAS.  119 

*_      , 

the  twelfth :  these  are  the  twelve  Adityas,  the  sons  of  Kasyapa,  ac- 
cording to  tradition  (or  the  Yeda,  Sruti}." 

Mahabharata,  v.  3,501  if. — AhhayaS  chdvyayas  chaiva  Brahma  lolca- 
pitdmahah  \  tathaiva  bhagavantau  tau  JVara-Ndrdyandv  rishl  \  Adityd- 
ndm  hi  sarveshdm  Vishnur  ekah  sandtanah  \  ajayyas  chdvyayas  chaiva 
sdsvatah  prabhur  Isvarah  \  nimitta-marands  chdnye  chandra-surya-mahl- 
jalam  \  Vdyur  Agnis  tathd  "kdsaih  grahds  tdrd-gands  tathd  \  te  cha 
kshaydnte  jagato  hitvd  lokd-trayam  sadd  \  kshayam  gachhanti  vai  sarve 
srijyante  cha  punah  punah  \  muhprta-marands  tv  anye  mdnushdh  mriga- 
pakshinah  \  "Brahma,  the  parent  of  the  world,  is  undecaying  and 
imperishable;  and  so  too  are  the  venerable  Eishis,  Nara,  andNarayana. 
Vishnu  alone  of  all  the  Adityas  is  eternal",  invincible,  imperishable, 
everlasting,  potent,  the  lord.  Other  heings  perish  on  some  occasion, 
[as  at  the  end  of  a  Kalpa], — m  the  moon,  the  sun,  the  earth,  water,118 
air,  fire,  the  ether,  the  planets,  and  the  stars.  At  the  dissolution  of 
the  universe,  all  these  invariably  abandon  the  three  worlds,  and  perish, 
and  are  created  again  and  &gain.  Other  [creatures],  men,  beasts,  and 
birds,  die  after  a  brief  interval  (muhurta}."  > 

Vishnu  Purana,  1,  15,  90  ff.  (vol.  ii.  pp.  26  f.  of  Dr.  Hall's 
edition  of  Wilson's  translation) — Purvamanvantare  freshthdh  dvddasdsan 
surottamdh  \  Tushitah  ntima  te  'nyonyam  uchur  Faivasvate  'ntare  \ 
upasthite  'tiyasasas  Chtikshushasydntare  Manoh  \  samavdylkritdh  sarve 
samugamya  parasparam  \  Agachhata  drutam  devah  Aditim  sampravisya 
vai  |  Manvantare  prasuyumas  tan  nah  sreyo  bhaved  iti  \  evam  ulctvd  tu  te 
sarve  Chdkshushasydntare  Manoh  \  Mdrlchdt  Ka&yapaj  j'dtds  te  'dityti 
Daksha-kanyayd  \  tatra  Vishnusclia  S'akrascha  jajndte  punar  eva  hi  \ 
Aryamd  chaiva  Dhdtdlha  Tvashtd  Pushd  tathaiva  cha  \  Vivasvatt  Savitd 
chaiva  Mitro  Varunah  eva  cha  \  Amso  Bhagas  chutitejdh  Aditydh  dvddasa 
smritdh  \  Chtilcshushasydntare  purvam  dsan  ye  Tushitdh  smritdh  \  Vai- 
vasvate  'ntare  te  vai  Aditydh  dvddasa  smritdh  \ 

"In  the  former  Hanvantara  'there  were  twelve  eminent  and  re- 

117  I  suppose  nimitta-maranah  is  to  be  understood  practically  in  this  sense. — See 
Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  Di\  Hall's  ed.  i.  113;  v.  186,  and  note.     Narayana,  in  his 
commentary  on  the  Mahabharata,  explains  the  phrase  thus :  Nimittam  pralayadi- 
nimittam  maranam  naso  yeshaih  te  nimitta-maranah  \ 

118  Water  and  ether  are  said  in  the  Ramaya^a  to  h'ave  preceded  Brahma. — See 
above,  p.  33.     See  also  the  order  of  creation  described  iu  the  S'atapatha  Bruhmana, 
and  in  ilanu,  in  section  ii.,  chapter  i.,  above. 


120  TEXTS  OF  THE  HAEIVAMS'A  AND  BHAGAVATA 

nowned  deities  called  Tushitas;'  who,  being  assembled  together,  said  to 
each  other  in  the  Chakshusha  Manvantara,  when  the  Yaivasvata  Man- 
vantara was  approaching,  '  Come  quickly,  deities,  let  us  enter  into 
Aditi,  and  be  born  in  the  [next]  Manvantara :  this  will  be  for  our 
welfare.'  Having  thus  spoken  in  the  Chakshusha  Manvantara,  they 
were  all  born  from  Kasyapa,  son  f>f  Marichi,  and  Aditi,  daughter  of 
Daksha.  In  this  way  Yishnu  and  S'akra  (Indra)  were  again  born, 
and  Aryaman,  Dhatri,  Tvashtri,  Pushan,  Yivasvat,  Savitri,  Mitra, 
Yaruna,  Ansa,  and  the  energetic  Bhaga:  these  are  known  as  the 
twelve  Adityas.  Those  who  formerly  in  the  Chakshusha  Manvantara 
were  called  the  Tushitas,  are  known  as  the  twelve  Adityas  in  the 
Yaivasvata  Manvantara."  ' 

The  same  story  is  repeated  in  very  nearly  the  same  words  in  the 
Harivansa,  verses  171  ff.' 

The  following  is  another  passage  from  the  Hari van sa,  verses  ll,548ff.: 
Aditydm  jajnire  rdjann  Aditydh  Kasyapdd  atha  \  Indro  Vishnur  Ehagas 
Tvashtd  Varuno  'mso  'ryamd  Ravih  \  PushfJ,  Mitrascha  varado  Manuh 
Parjanyah  eva  cha  \  ity  ete  dvddasdditydh  varishthds  tridivaukasah  \ 
"Prom  Kasyapa  and  Aditi  were  born  the  Adityas,  Indra,  Yishnu, 
Bhaga,  Tvashtri,  Yaruna,  Ansa,  Aryaman,  Ravi  (the  Sun),  Pushan, 
Mitra,  the  bestower  of  boons,  Manu,  and  Parjanya, — these  are  the 
twelve  Adityas,  most  eminent  celestials." 

In  the  same  work,  verses  12,456  f.,  we  read:  Aryama  Varuno 
Jfitrah  Pushd  Dhdtd  Purandarah  \  Tvashtd  Bhago  'msah  Savitd  Par- 
janyasclieti  visrutdh  \  Adityam  jajnire  devdh  Kasyapal  loka-bhdvandh  \ 
"  The  gods,  creators  of  the  worlds,  known  as  Aryaman,  Yaruna, 
Mitra,  'Pushan,  Dhatri,  Purandara  (Indra),  Tvashtri,  Bhaga,  Ansa, 
Savitri,  and  Parjanya,  were  sprung  from  Kasyapa  and  Aditi." 

Only  eleven  names  occur  in  this  list :  that  of  Yishnu  is  omitted. 

The  next  is  another  legend  on  the  same  subject  from  the  same  work. 
Here  quite  a  different  origin  is  assigned  to  the  Adityas,  who  are  said 
to  have  sprung  from  the  face  of  Yivasvat  or  Marjanda,  the  Sun. 

Harivansa,  589  ff. — Tato  m'rbhdsitam  rupafy  tejasd  samhatena  vai  \ 
kdntdt  kdntataram  drashtum  adhikam  susubhe  tadd  \  mukhe  nirvartitam 
rupam  tasya  devasya  gopateli  \,  tatali-prdbJiriti  devasya  mukham  dslt  tu 
lohitam  \  mukha-rdgantu  yat  purvam  Mdrtandasya  mukha-chyutam  \ 
Aditydh  dvudasaiveha  samlhutdh  mukha-sambhavdh  \  Dhdtd  'ryamd  cha 


I  • 

PURANA  REGARDING  THE  ADITYAS.  121 

Mitrascha  Varuno  'mso  Bhagas  tathd  \  Indro  Vivasvdn  Pushd  cha 
Parjanyo  dasamas  tathd  \  tatas  Tvashtd  tato  Vishnur  ajaghanyo  jaghan- 
yajah  \  harsham  lebhe  tato  devo  drishtvd  "ditydn  sva-deha-j'dn  \  "  Then 
his  appearance,  illuminated  with  concentrated  lustre,  shone  forth  more 
brilliantly,  fairer  than  the  fairest  to  behold.  This  appearance  was 
produced  in  thp  face  of  that  god,,  the  lord  of  rays.  Henceforward 
the  face  of  the  god  was  red:  Prom  the  previous  colour  of  the  face 
which  fell  from  the  countenance  of  Martanda  were  produced  twelve 
face-born  Adityas :  Dhatri,  Aryaman,  Mitra,  Varuna,  Ansa,  Bhaga, 
Indra,  Vivasvat,  Pushan,  Parjanya  the  tenth,  then  Tvashtri,  then 
Vishnu  not  the  least,  though  the  last  born.  The  god  then  rejoiced, 
beholding  the  Adityas,  sprung  from  his  own'  body." 

This  story  is  not  only  in  opposition  to  the  ordinary  account  of  the 

_  ^ 

Adityas  being  sons  of  Aditi,  but  it  contradictfe  itself.  "Vivasvat  is  one 
of  the  Adityas,  who  is  produced  from  Vivasvat;  and  Tvashtri  was 
already  existing,  and  playing  a  part  in  the  former  part  of  the  legend. 
(See  Langlois's  note  7,  p.  50  of  his  French  version  of  the  Harivansa.) 
The  Vishnu  Purana  tells  the  same  story  about  Vivasvat,  but  says 
nothing  of  the  birth  of  the  Adityas.  (See  Wilson's  translation,  Dr. 
Hall's  ed.,  iii.  20  f.) 

Bhagavata  Purana,  vi.  6,  24  f. — S'rinu  ndmdni  loJcdndm  mdtrindm 
samkardni  cha  \  atha  Kasyapa-patriindm  yat-prasutam  idam  jagat  \ 
Aditir  Ditir  ityddi  |  ....  36  f.  Athdtah  iruyat&m  vamso  yo  'diter 
anupurvasah  \  yatra  Ndrdyano  devo  svdmsendvdtarad  vibhuk  \  Vivasvan 
Aryamd  Pushd  Tvashtd  'tha  Savitd  Bhagah  \  Dhdtd  Vidhdtd  Varuno 
Mitrah  S'akrah  Urukramah  \ 

"Hear  now  the  auspicious  names  of  the  wives  of  Kasyapa,  the 
mothers  of  the  worlds',  from  whom  this  universe  was  produced ;  Aditi, 
Diti,  etc.  ...  36  f.  Hear  now,  in  order,  the  race  of  Aditi,  in  which 
the  all-pervading  god,  Narayana,  descended  in  a  part  of  himself, — 
Vivasvat,  Aryaman,  Pushan,  Tvashtri,  Savitri,  Bhaga,  Dhatri,  Vidha- 
tri,  Varuna,  Mitra,  S'ajsra,  Urukrama  (the  wide-strider= Vishnu)." 

i  • 

SECT.  IV. — Stories  regarding   Vishnu  from  the  S'atapatha  Brdhmana, 

the  Taittiriya  Aranyaka,  the  Panchavimsa  JBrdhmana,  the  Rdmdyana, 
the  Mahdbhdrata,  and  the  Purdnas.  " 

The  following  story  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  (in  which 
Vishnu  is  represented  as  a  dwatf,  and  as  having,  under  the  form  of 


122  HOW  THE  GODS  HEADED  BY  THE  DWARF 

sacrifice,  conquered  the  whole  earth),  with  others  of  the  same  tenor, 
contains  the  germ  of  the  story  of  the  Dwarf  Incarnation : 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  i.  2,  5,  1  ff. — Devdscha  vai  Asurdscha  ubhaye 
prdjdpatydh  paspridhire  \tato  devdh  anuvyam  iva  dsuh  \  atha  ha  Asurdh 
menire  '  asmdkam  eva  idam  khalu  bhuvanam?  iti  \  2.  Te  ha  uchur 
'  hanta  imam  prithivlm  vibhajdmahai  tarn  vibhajya  upajwdma '  iti  \  turn 
aukshnais  charmabhih  paschdt  prdncho  vibh'ujamdndh  abhlyuh  \  3.  Tad  vai 
devdh  susruvur  "vibhajante  ha  vai  imam  Asurdh  prithivlm  preta  tad 
eshydmo  yatra  imam  Asurdh  vibhajante  I  ke  tatah  sydma  yad  asyai  na 
bhajemahi"  iti  \  teyajnameva  Vishnum  puraskritya  lyuh  \  4.  Tehauchuh 
"anu  no  'sydm  prithivydm  dbhajata  astv  eva  no  'py  asydm  bhdgah"  iti  \  te 
'surah  asuyantah  iva  uchur  ':ydvad  eva  esha  Vishnur  abhisete  tdvad  vo  dad- 
mah'  iti  \  5.  Vdmano  ha  Vishnur  dsa  \  tad  devdh  na  jihldire  "mahadvai 

c~ 

no  'dur  ye  no  yajna-sammitam  adur "  iti  \  6.  Te  prdncham  Vishnum 
nipddya  chhandobhir  abhitah  paryagrighnan  tl gdyatrena  tvd  chhandasd 
parigrihndmi"  iti  dakshinatas  \  "  traishtubhena  tvd  chhandasd  parigrih- 
ndmi"  iti  paschdt  \  ltjdgatenatvd  chhandasd  parigrihndmi"  itiuttaratah  \ 
7.  Tarn  chhandobhir  abhitah  parigrihya  agnim  purastdt  samddhdya  tena 
archantahsrdmyantas  cheruh  \  tena  imam  sarvdm prithivlm  samavindanta  \ 
tad  yad  enena  imam  sarvdm  samavindanta  tasmdd  vedir  ndma  \  tasmdd 
dhur  '  ydvatl  vedis  tdvatl  prithivl '  iti  \  etayd  hi  imam  sarvdm  samavin- 
danta |  evam  ha  vai  imam  sarvdm  sapatndndm  samvrinkte  nirbhajaty 
asyai  sapatndn  yah  evam  etad  veda  \  8.  So  ''yam  Vishnur  gldnas  chhan- 
dobhir itah  parigrihlto  'gnih  purastdd  na  apakramanam  dsa  \  sa  tatah 
eva  oshadhindm  muldny  upa  mumlocha  \  9.  Te  ha  devdh  uchuh  "  Java  nu 
Vishnur  abhut  kva  nu  yajno  'bhud"  iti  \  te  ha  uchus  "  chhandobhir  itah 
parigrihlto  'gnih  purastdd  na  apakramanam  asty  dtra  eva  anvichhata  "  iti 
tarn  khanantah  iva  anvlshus  tarn  tryangule  'nvavindams  tasmdt  tryanguld 
vedih  sydt  \  tad  u  ha  api  Pdnchis  tryanguldm  eva  saumyasya  adhvarasya 
vedim  chakre  \  10.  Tad  u  tathd  na  kurydd  ityddi  \ 

"The  gods  andAsuras,  who  were  both  sprung  from  Prajapati,  strove 
together.  Then  the  gods  were,  as  it  were,  worsted,  and  the  Asuras 
thought,  '  This  world  is*. now  certainly  ours/  2.  Then  they  spake, 
'  Come,  let  us  divide  this  earth,  and  having  divided  it,  let  us  subsist 
thereon.'  They  accordingly fwent  on  dividing  it  with  ox-hides  from 
west  to  east.  3.  The  gods  heard  of  it,  [and]  said,  '  The  Asuras  are 
dividing  this  earth;  come,  we  shall  go  to  the  spot  where  they  are 


•1  . 

VISHNU  GAINED  THE  WHOLE  EARTH  FROM  THE  ASURAS.     123 

*       » 
dividing  it.     Who  shall  we  become  (i.e.  what  shall  hecome  of  us),  if 

we  do  not  share  in  it  ?  \  Placing  at  their  head  Vishnu,  the  sacrifice, 
they  proceeded  [thither],  4.  and  said,  'Put  us  with  yourselves  in 
possession  of  this  earth;  let  us  also  have  a  share  in  it.'  The  Asuras, 
grudging  as  it  were,  answered,  '  We  give  you  as  much  as  this  Vishnu 
can  lie  upon.5  U9  5.  Now,  Vishnu  was  a  dwarf.  The  gods  did  not 
reject  that  offer;  [but  said  among  themselves],  'They  have  given  us 
much,  [these  Asuras],  who  have  given  us  what  is  co-extensive  with 
sacrifice.'  6.  Then  having  placed  Vishnu  to  the  east,  they  surrounded 
him  with  metres ;  [saying],  on  the  south  side,  '  I  surround  thee  with 
the  Gayatn  metre ; '  on  the  west,  '  I  surround  thee  with  the  Trishtubh 
metre ; '  on  the  north,  '  I  surround  thee  with  the  Jagati  metre.'  7. 
Having  thus  surrounded  him  with  metres,  they  placed  Agni  (fire)  on  the 
east,  and  thus  they  went  on  worshipping  and  toiling.  By  this  means 
they  acquired  the  whole  of  this  earth ;  and  since  by  this  means  they 
acquired  (samavindanta)  it.  all,  therefore  [the  place  of  sacrifice]  is  called 
vedi  (from  the  root  vid,  '  to' acquire').  Hence  men  say,  'as  great  as  is 
the  altar,  so  great  is  the  earth  ;'  for  by  it  (the  altar)  they  acquired  the 
whole  of  this  [earth].  Thus  he  who  so  understands  this,  appropriates 
all  this  [earth]  from  rivals,  dispossesses  from  it  rivals.  8.  Then  this 
Vishnu,  being  wearied,  surrounded  by  metres,  with  Agni  to  the  east, 
did  not  advance;  but  then  hid  himself  among  the  roots  of  plants.  9. 
The  gods  then  exclaimed,  '  What  has  become  of  Vishnu  ?  what  has  be- 
come of  the  sacrifice  ? '  They  said,  '  Surrounded  by  metres,  with  Agni 
to  the  east,  he  does  not  advance ;  search  for  him  here.'  So  digging,  as 
it  were,  they  searched  for,  and  found  him  at  a  depth  of  three  fingers  ; 
therefore  let  the  altar  [have  a  trench]  three  fingers  deep ;  therefore, 
also,  Panchi120  made  an  altar  of  this  description  for  the  soma  sacrifice. 
10.  But  let  no  one  do  so,"  etc. 

The  next  story  from  the  same  work  relates  how  Vishnu  became 
pre-eminent  among  the  gods,  and  how  he  lost  his  head.  Here  also  he 
is  identified  with  sacrifice : 

119  Compare  with  this  story  the  similar  one  quoted  above  in  the  note  on  R.  V. 
vi.  69,  8  (p.  84  f.)  from  the  Aiiareya  Brahmana,  6,  15. 

120  Panchih  soma-yagasyapi  vedim  tryangula-tyiatam  eva  mene  \   "  Panchi  thought 
that  the  altar  for  the  soma  sacrifice  also  should  havt'a  trench  three  fingers  deep." 
(Commentary.)     Panchi  is  again  mentioned  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  ii.  1,  4,  27 
(p.  143),  along  with  Asuri  and  Madhuki,  where  the  commentator  speaks  of  them  as 
three  munis  (Asuri-prabhritayas  trayo  lAunayah).   See  "Weber's  Ind.  Stud.  i.  192, 434. 


\ 
124  STORY  ABOUT  VISHNU  BECOMING  THE  MOST 

^         i 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xiv.  1,  1,  1  ff. — Devdh  ha  vai  satram  nishedur 
Agnir  Indrah  Somo  Makho  Vishnur  visve-devdh  anyatra  eva  Asvibhydm  \ 
2.  Teshdm  Kurukshetram  devayajanam  dsa  \  tasmdd  dhuh  "  Euru- 
kshetram  devdndm  devayajanam "  iti  \  tasmad  yatra  kva  cha  Kurukshe- 
trasya  nigacJihati  tad  eva  manyate  " idam  devayajanam"  iti  tad  hi  devd- 
ndm devayajanam  \  3.  Te  dsata  \  "  sriyam  aachhema  yasah  sydma 
anndddh  sydma"  iti  tatho  evaime  satram  dsate  "sriyam  gachhema  yasah 
sydma  annddah  sydma  "  iti  \  4.  Te  ha  uchur  "  yo  nah  sramena  tapasd 
srdddhayd  yajnena  dhutibhir  yajnasya  udricham  purvo  'vagachhdt  sa  nah 
sreshtho  'sat  tad  u  nah  sarveshdm  saha"  iti  "tathd"  iti  \  5.  Tad 
Vishnuh  prathamah  prdpa  \  sa  devdndm  sreshtho  'bhavat  tasmdd  dhur 
"  Vishnur  devdndm  sreshthfah"  iti  \  6.  Sa  yah  sa  Vishnur  yajnah  sa  \ 
sa  yah  sa  yajno  'sau  sa  Adityah  \  tad  ha  idam  yaso  Vishnur  na  sasdka 
samyantum  \  tad  idam  hpy  etarhi  na  eva  sarvah  iva  yasah  saknoti 
samyantum  \  7.  Sa  tisri-dhanvam121  dddya  apachakrdma  \  sa  dhanur- 
drtnyd  sirah  upastabhya  tasthau  \  tarn  devdh  anabhidhrishnuvantah 
samantam  parinyavisanta  \  8.  Tdh  ha  bamryah  uchuh  \  imdh  vai 
vamryo  yad  upadlkdh  \  "yo  'syajydm  apyadydt  kim  asmai prayachheta " 
iti  "  annddyam  asmai  prayachhema  api  dhanvann  apa  'dhigachhet  tathd 
asmai  sarvam  annddyam  prayachhema  "  iti  \  9.  Tasya  upapardsritya 
jydm  apijakshus  tasydm  chhinndydm  dhanur-drtnyau  vishphurantyau 
Vishnoh  sirah  prachichhidatuh  \  10.  Tad  ghrinn  iti  papdta  \  tat 
patitvd  'sdv  Adityo  'bhavat  \  atha  itarah  prdn  eva  prdvrijyata  \  tad 
yad  ghrinn  ity  apatat  tasmdd  gharmah  \  atha  yat  pravryyata  tasmdd 
pravargyah  \  11.  Te  devdh  abruvan  \  "  mahdn  vata  no  vlro  'pddi"  iti 
tasmdd  mahdvlrah  \  tasya  yo  raso  vyaksharat  tarn  pdnibhih  sammamrijus 
tasmdt  'samrdt  \  12.  Tarn  devdh  abhyasrijyantam  yathd  vittim  vetsya- 
mdndh  evam  \  tarn  Indrah  prathamah  prdpa  \  tarn  anvangam  anunyapad- 
yata  \  tarn  paryagrihndt  tarn  parigrihya  idam  yaso  'bhavad  yad  idam 
Indro  yasah  \  yaso  ha  bhavati  ya  evam  veda  \  13.  Sa  u  eva  makhah  sa 
Vishnuh  \  tatah  Indro  makhavdn  a'ohavad  \  makhavdn  ha  vai  tarn 
Maghavdn  ity  dchakshate  paroksham  paroksha-kamdh  hi  devdh  \  14. 

<  , 

121  This  word  occurs  also  in  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  1,  5,  10 ;  in  Taitt.  S.  i.  8,  19,  1,  and 

Taitt.  Br.  ii.  7,  9, 2,  in  all  -which  places  it  is  explained  'by  the  Comm.  tisribhir  ishubhir 
yuktam  (or  sahitani)  dJianva  (or  dfwnuh). 

122  This,  according  to  Bohtlingk'  and  Roth,  is  the  correct  reading,  in  place  of 
abhimrijyanta,  given  in  Weber's  edition.     See  a  parallel  passage,  S'atap.  Br.  iv. 
1,  3,  5. 


EMINENT  OF'THE  GODS  AND  LOSING  HIS  HEAD.        125 

Tdbhyo  vamrlbhyo  'nnddyam  prayac\hai\  \  apo  vai  sarvam  annam  tdbhir 
hi  idam  alhiknuyam  iva  adanti  \  yad  idam  kimvadanti  \  15.  Atha 
imam  Vishnurn  yajnam  .tredhhd  vyabhajanta  |  .  .  .  .  tena  apaslrshnd 
yajnena  devd  archantah  srdmyantas  cheruh  \ 

"  The  gods,  Agni,  Indra,  Soma,  Vishnu,  Makha,  and  all  the  [other] 
deities,  excepting  the  Asvins,  were  present  at  a  sacrifice.  2.  Kuru- 
kshetra  was  the?  place  of  their  divine  worship.  Hence,  men  say  that 
Kurukshetra  is  the  country  where  the  gods  sacrifice.  Consequently,  to 
whatever  part  of  Kurukshetra  a  man  goes,  he  looks  upon  it  as  a  place 
for  divine  worship,  since  it  was,  the  spot  where  the  gods  worshipped. 
3.  They  were  [there.  They  said],  '  May  we  attain  prosperity,  hecome 
famous,  and  eat  food.'  And  in  the  very  sa.me  way  these  [men]  attend 
a  sacrifice  [saying],  'May  we  attain  prosperity,  become  famous,  and 
eat  food.'  4.  Then  [the  gods]  said,  '  Whoever  among  us,  through 
toil,  austerity,  faith,  sacrifice,  and  oblations,  first  comprehends  the 
issue  of  the  sacrifice,  let  him  be  the  most  eminent  of  us :  this  [shall  be] 
common  to  us  all.'  [To  this  they  consented,  saying],  '  Be  it  so.'  5. 
Vishnu  first  attained  that  ^proposed  object].  He  became  the  most 
eminent  of  the  gods  :  wherefore  men  say,  '  Vishnu  is  the  most  eminent 
of  the  gods.'  6.  He  who  is  this  Vishnu  is  sacrifice ;  he  who  [is]  this 
sacrifice  is  the  Aditya.  Vishnu  could  not  control  [his  love  of]  this  fame.123 
And  the  same  is  the  case  now,  that  every  one  cannot  control  [his  love  of] 
fame.  7.  Taking  his  bow  and  three  arrows,  he  departed.  He  stood, 
resting  his  head  on  the  end  of  his  [bended]  bow.  Being  unable  to  over- 
come him,  the  gods  sat  down  all  around  him.  8.  Then  the  ants  said  to 
them  (now  the  ants  were  the  same  as  upadlkds — another  name  for  ants), 
'What  will  you  give  to  him  who  gnaws  the  bowstring?'  [The  gods  re- 
plied], 'We  will  give  him  the  enjoyment  of  food,  and  he  shall  find  waters 
even  in  the  desert;  so  shall  we  give  him  every  enjoyment  of  food.'  9. 
[The  ants,  then],  approaching,  gnawed  his  bowstring.  When  that  was 
cut,  the  ends  of  the  bow,  starting  asunder,  cut  off  the  head  of  Vishnu. 
10.  It  fell,  making  a  sound  (ghrin).  That  having  fallen,  became  that 
Aditya.  Then  the  rest  of  him  became  extended  towards  the  east. 
Since  the  head  fell  wit  the  sound  of  ghfin,  hence  gharma,  ['the 

123  It  seems  as  if  there  were  a  play  of  words  her^,  the  word  yas'ah,  "  fame,"  having 
reference  to  the  words  sa  yah  set  Vishnuh,  etc.,  sa>yah  sa  J-ajnah,  etc.  "  He  who  [is] 
this  Vishnu,"  etc.  "  He  who  [is]  this  sacrifice,"  etc. 


126     STOET  FEOM  THE  TAITTIRIYA  AEANYlKA  TELLING  THAT 

sacrificial  kettle,'  received  its  r/amo]  ;  and  since  he  became  extended, 
(pravrijyaia),  the  pravargya  [received  its  appellation].  11.  The  gods 
then  said,  '  A  great  hero  (mahdn  mrati)  of  ours  has  fallen.'  Hence 
arose  the  name  of  mahamra  (a  sacrificial  vessel).124  They  wiped 
(sammamrijuh')  with  their  hands  the  fluid  (blood)  which  flowed  from 
him.  Hence  arose  the  name  of  samrdt.  12.  The  gods  rushed  towards 
him  (Vishnu),  as  men  about  to  obtain  property  do.  In'dra  first  reached 
him.  He  came  into  contact  with  him  limb  by  limb.  He  embraced 
him.  Having  embraced  him,  he  became  this  fame,  which  Indra  is. 
He  who  so  knows  this  becomes  fame*  13.  That  Vishnu  was  indeed 
Makha.125  Hence  Indra  became  Makhavat  (the  possessor  or  associate 
of  Makha).  He  is  Makhav.at :  they  call  him  Maghavat  esoterically ; 
for  the  gods  love  what  is  esoteric.  14.  They  (the  gods)  gave  food  to 
those  ants.  All  food  is  wate*  ;  for  with  water  men,  as  it  were,  moisten 
the  food  which  they  eat:  as  the  common  saying  is.  15.  Then  they 

divided  into  three  portions  this  Vishnu,  the  sacrifice With 

that  headless  sacrifice  (see  above),  the  gods  went  on  worshipping  and 
toiling." 

I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Weber  for  the  next  two  passages ;  the 
first  from  the  Taittiriya  Aranyaka,126  and  the  second  from  the  Pancha- 


124  A  long  account  is  given  of  the  gharma,  pravargya,  and  mahavlra  in  Katyayana's 
S'rauta  Sutras,  xxvi. 

135  In  regard  to  this  word  I  quote  the  explanation  of  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth,  s.  v.  2  c : 
"  This  is  the  name  of  a  malign  mythical  being,  as  is  to  be  conjectured  from  the  fol- 
lowing passages,  E.  V.  x.  171,  2:  tvam  MaJchasya  dodhatah  s'iro  ava  tvacho  bharah\ 
('Thou  hast  smitten  off  the  head,  the  skin,  of  the  furious  Makha ') ;  ix,  101,  13,  apa 
s'vanam  aradhasam  hata  Makham  va  Bhrigavah  \  ('  Drive  away  the  niggardly  dog, 
as  the  .Bhrigus  did  Makha').  Herewith  is  to  be  connected  the  mention  made  of 
Maltha's  head  in  sacrificial  formulae,  Vaj.  Sanhita,  37,  3  :  devl  dyava-prithivl  Makli- 
asya  vain  adya  s'iro  radhyasam  devayajane  prithivyah  [  ....  4.  Devyo  vamryo 
bhutasya  prathamajah  makhasya  vo  'dya  s'iro  radhyasam  devayajane  prithivyah,  | 
('  0  divine  heaven  and  earth,  may  I  rightly  prepare  for  you  to-day  the  head  of 
Makha,  on  the  part  of  the  earth  where  the  gods  sacrificed.  ...  4.  0  divine  ants, 
firstborn  of  created  things,  may  I  rightly  prepare  for  you  the  head  of  Makha  on  the 
part  of  the  earth  where  the  gods  sacrificed') ;  ibid.  11,  57  ;  Taitt,  S.  i.  1,  8,  1 ;  iii. 
2,  4,  1,  namo  'gnaye  Makhaghne  \  Makhasya  ma  yaso  'ryad  ity  ahavamyam  upatish* 
thate  |  yajno  vai  makhah  ('  Adoration  to  Agni,  the  slaj  er  of  Makha.  May  the  fame 
of  Makha  come  to  me.  So  (saying),  he  stands  by  the  ahavamya-fire.  Makha  is 
sacrifice'),"  etc.  r 

128  This  part  of  the  Taift.  Ar.  has  now  been  printed  in  the  Bibliotheca  Indica,  pp. 
590  ff.    The  commentary  on  it  will  be  found  in  pp.  371  ff. 


VISHNU  MONOPOLIZED  GLOEY  AND  LOST  HIS  HEAD.        127 

vimsa  Brahmana,  which  both  relate  ^he  same  story  which  has  just 
been  given  from  the  S'atapath.9,  Brahmana. 

Taittiriya  Aranyaka,  ,v.  i.  1-7. — 1.  Devdh  vai  satram  dsata  riddhi- 
parimitam  yasaskdmdh  \  te  'bruvan  " yan  nah  prathamam  yasah  richhdt 
sarveshdmnas  tat  sahaasad"  iti  \  leshtim  kurukshetram  vedir  dslt  \  tasyai 
Ehdndavo  dakshindrdhah  dslt  Turghnam  uttardrdhah  Parlnaj jaghandrdho 
Maravah  utkarafy  \  2.  TesJidm  Makham  Vaishnavaih  yasah  drchhat  \  tad 
nyakdmayata  \  tena  apdlcrdmat  \  tarn  devdh  anvdyan  yaso  'varurutsa- 
mdndh  \  tasya  anvagatasya  savydd  dhanur  ajdyata  dakshindd  ishavah  \ 
tasmdd  islmdhanvam  punya-janm(\  yajna-janma  hi  \  3.  Tarn  elcam  santam 
bahavo  na  abhyadhrishnuvcm  \  tasmdd  ekam  ishudhanvam 127  viram  lahavo 
'nishudhanvdh  na  abhidhrishnuvanti  \  so  's^mayata  "  ekam  md  santam 
bahavo  na  abhyadharshishur  "  iti  \  tasya  sishmlydnasya  tej'o  'pdkrdmat  \ 
tad  devdh  oshadhlshu  nyamrijuh  \  te  sydmc^adh  abhavan  \  smaydkdh  vai 
ndma  ete  \  4.  Tat  smaydkdndm  smaydkatvam  \  tasmdd  dikshitena  apigrihya 
smetavyaih  tejaso  dhrityai  \  sa  dhanuh  pratiskabhya  atishthat  \  tdh  upa- 
dlkdh  abruvan  \  li  varam  vrindmahai  \  atha  vah  imam  randhaydma  \ 
yatra  kva  cha  khandma  tad*apo  'bhitrinaddma"  iti  \  tasmdd  upadlkdh 
yatra  kva  cha  khananti  tad  apo  'bhitrindanti  \  5.  Vdrevritam  hy  d$dm  \ 
tasya  jydm  apyddan  \  tasya  dhanur  vipravamdnam  sirah  udavartayat  \ 
tad  dydvdprithivl  anuprdvartata  \  yat  prdvartata  tat  pravargyasya 
pravargyatvam  \  yad  ghrdm  ity  apatat  tad  gharmasya  gharmatvam  \ 
mahato  vlryam  apaptad  iti  tad  mahdvlrasya  mahdvlratvam  \  6.  Yadasydh 
samabharams  tat  samrdjah  samrdttvam  \  tarn  stritam  devatds  tredhd 
vyagrihnata  \  Agnih  prdtahsavanam  Indro  mddhyandinam  savanam  Vis- 
vedevds  tritlya-savanam  \  tena  apaslrshnd  yajnena  yajamdndh  na  dsisho 
'vdrundhata  na  suvaraam  lokam  abhyajayan  \  te  devdh  Asvindv  abruvan  \ 
7.  "  Bhishajau  vai  sthah  \  idam  yajnasya  sirah  pratidhattam  "  iti  \  tdo 
abrutdm  "varam  vrindvahai  grahah  eva  ndv  atrdpi  grihyatdm"  iti  \ 
tdbhydm  etam  dsvinam  agrihnan  \  tdv  etad  yajnasya  sirah  pratyadhattdm 
yat  pravargyah  \  tena  saslrshnd  yajnena  yajamdndh  ava  dsisho  'rundhata  \ 
abhi  suvargam  lokam  ajayan  \  yat  pravargyam  pravinakti  yajnasya  eva 
tach  chhirah  pratidadhciti  \  tena  saslrshnd  yajnena  yajdmdno  1va  dsisho 
rundhe  'bhi  suvargam  lokCwi  jayati  \  tasmdd  esfih  dsvina-pravaydh  iva  yat 

pravargyah  \ 

-» 

,T  .^ 

127  The  Bibl.  Ind.  reads  ishudhanvinam. 


128  VISHNU'S  HEAD  REPLACED  BY  THE  ASTINS. 

"The  gods,  desirous  of  gloryv  were  attending  a  sacrifice  complete  in 
every  respect.  They  said,  '  Whatever  glory  first  comes  to  us,  that  shall 
be  common  to  us  all.'  Kurukshetra  was  theiu  altar.  Khandava  was 
its  southern,  Turghna  its  northern,  and  Parinah  its  hinder  section. 
The  Marus  were  the  earth  dug  from  it.  2.  Glory  came  to  Makha 
Vaishnava  among  their  number.  This  glory  he  eagerly  desired ;  with 
it  he  departed.  The  gods  followed  him,  seeking  to  obt&in  [this]  glory. 
From  the  left  [hand]  of  him  while  thus  followed,  a  bow  was  produced, 
and  from  his  right  hand  arrows.  Hence  a  bow  and  arrows  have  a  holy 
origin,  for  they  are  sprung  from  sacrifice.  3.  Though  many,  they 
could  not  overcome  him,  though  he  was  only  one.  Therefore  many 
men  without  bows  and  arrows  cannot  overcome  one  hero  who  has  a 
bow  and  arrows.  He  smiled,  '  Though  they  are  many,  they  have  not 
overcome  me  who  am  only  »<>ne.'  Strength  departed  from  him  as  he 
continued  to  smile.  This  the  gods  put  upon  the  plants.  They  be- 
came syamaka  grain.  For  they  are  smilers  (smayakdh}.  4.  Hence 
this  grain  derives  its  name.  Wherefore  a  person  who  has  been  con- 
secrated should  smile  with  [his  mouth]  stiut,  that  he  may  retain  his 
strength.  He  stood  leaning  on  his  bow.  The  ants  said  [to  the  gods], 
'Let  us  choose  a  boon;  and  after  that  we  shall  subject  him  to  you. 
Wherever  we  dig,  let  us  open  up  water.'  Hence  wherever  ants  dig, 
they  open  up  water.  5.  Eor  this  was  the  boon  which  they  chose. 
They  knawed  his  (Vishnu's)  bowstring.  His  bow,  starting  asunder, 
hurled  his  head  upwards.  It  travelled  through  heaven  and  earth. 
From  its  so  travelling  (prdvartata'),  the  pravargya  derives  its  name. 
From  its  falling  with  the  sound  of  ghrafji,  gharma  obtained  its  name. 
Strength  (vlrya)  fell  from  the  mighty  one  (mahatah] :  hence  the 
mahavfra  got  its  name.  6.  As  they  gathered*  it  (samabharan)  from 
this  [earth],  a  samrat  obtains  his  appellation.  The  gods  divided  him 
when  prostrate,  into  three  parts;  Agni  [took]  the  morning  oblation; 
Indra  the  midday  oblation,  and  the  Visvedevas  the  third  oblation. 
Sacrificing  with  this  headless  sacrifice,  they  (the  gods),  neither  obtained 
blessings,  nor  conquered  heaven.  7.  The  gods  said  to  the  Asvins, 
'  Te  two  are  physicians,  rfeplace  this  head  of  the  sacrifice.'  They  said, 
'  Let  us  ask  a  boon,  let  our  graha  (libation  of  Soma)  be  offered 
here  also.'  [The  gods, accordingly]  recognized  this  Asvina  [libation] 
for  them.  [The  Asvins]  replaced  this  head  of  the  sacrifice,  which  is 


THE  PANCHAYIMS'A&ND  AJTAREYA  BRAHMAXAS  ON  VISHNU.  129 

the  pravargya.  Sacrificing  with  this  sacrifice  with  a  head,  they  ob- 
tained blessings,  they  conquered  heaven.123  When  one  offers  the 
pravargya,  then  he  replaces  the  head  of  the  sacrifice.  Sacrificing  with 
this  sacrifice  with  a  head,  a  man  obtains  blessings,  and  conquers 
heaven.  Hence  this  pravargya  js  principally  efficacious  through  texts 
addressed  to  the  Asvins." 

Panchavirns'a,  Brahmana,  vii.  5,  6. — Devah  vai  yasaskdmdh  tsatram 
dsata  Agnir  Indro  Vdyur  Malthas  te  'bruvan  '  yan  no  yasah  richhdt  tan 
nah  saJia  asad'  iti  \  teshdm  Makham  yasah  drchhat  \  tad  dddya  apd- 
krdmat  \  tad  asya  pra  saha  dditsanta  tarn  paryayatanta  \  sa  dhanuh  pra- 
tishtabhya  atishthat  tasya  dhanur-drtnir  urdhvd  patitvd  siro  'chhinat 
sa  pravargyo  'bhavat  \  yajno  vai  Makhah  \  yat  pravargyam  pravrinjanti 
yajnasya  eva  tach  chhirah  pratidadhati  \  '  • 

"Desirous  of  glory,  the  gods,  Agni,  Indra,  Vayu  and  Makha,  were 
attending  a  sacrifice.  They  said,  '  Whatever  glory  comes  to  us,  that 
shall  be  common  to  us.'  Glory  came  to  Makha  among  their  number. 
Taking  it,  he  departed.  The  others  wished  to  take  their  share  in  it. 
They  surrounded  him.  lie  stood  leaning  on  his  bow.  The  end  of 
his  bow,  springing  upwards,  cut  off  his  head.  He  became  the 
pravargya.  Makha  is  sacrifice.  When  men  offer  the  pravargya,  they 
replace  the  head  of  Makha." 

The  A^tareya  Brahmana  has  these  two  passages  relating  to  Vishnu, 
1,1:  Agnir  vai  devdndm  avamo  \  Vishnuh  paramas  \  tadantarena  sarvah 
anydh  devatuh.  "Agni  is  the  lowest,  Yishnu  the  highest,  among  the 
gods ;  between  them  both  are  placed  all  the  other  deities."  In  his 
Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.,  p.  390,  note,  Prof.  Miiller  remarks  that  "this  pas- 
sage proves  nothing  as  to  the  relative  dignity  of  Agni  and  Yishnu." 
Again,  1,  30,  on  quoting  R.  Y.  1,  156,  4,  the  Aitareya  says:  Yishnur 
vai  devdndm  dvdrapah}  sa  eva  asmai  etad  dcdram  vivrinoti.  "Vishnu  is 
the  door-keeper  of  the  gods;  he  opens  for  him  this  door."  The  Taitt. 
Br.  iii.  1,  5,  7,  has  the  following:  Vishnur  vai  akdmayata  punyam 
slokam  srinvlya  na  ma  pdpl  kirUfr  dgachhet.  "  Vishnu  desired,  '  May 
I  hear  a  holy  verse;  may  no  ill  renown  reach  me.'  "  The  Taitt.  S. 
iii.  4,  5,  1,  says:  Rudrah pasundm  Tvashtd  t^pandm  Vishnuh parvatd- 

128  Compare  the  close  of  the  story  about  the  jAs'vins  quoted  from  the  S'atapatha 
Brahmana,  iv.  1,  5,  1  ff.,  iu  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  250  ff. 


130  THE  RAMAYANA  ON  THE  DWARF  INCARNATION  OF  VISHNU. 

ndm  Maruto  ganu.nu.rn  adhipatayah.^      "Rudra  is  the  lord  of  beasts, 
Tvashtri  of  forms,  Yishnu  of  mountains,  the  Maruts  of  hosts." 

The  following  passage  from  the  Ramayana  gives  the  legend  of  the 
Dwarf  incarnation  in  its  later  form  : 

"Ramayana  (Schlegel's  ed.),  i.  31,  2  ff. — 2.  Iha  Rama  makdbdho 
Vishnur  deva-namaskritah  \  tapas-charana-yogdrtham  uvdsa  sa  mahdtapdh\ 
3.  JEshct  purvdsramo  Rama  vdmanasya  mahdtmanah  \  siddhdsramah  itl 
khydtah  siddJio  yatra  mahdtapdh  \  4  Alhilhuya  cha  devendram  pur  a 
VairocJianir  Balih  [  trailokya-rdjyam  bubhuje  balotseka-madtinwitah  \  5. 
Tato  Balau  tadd  yajnam  yajamdne  bnaydrditdh  \  Indrddayah  suragandh 
Vishnum  uchur  ihdsrame  \  6.  "Balir  Vairochanir  Vishno  yajate  'sau 
mahdlalah  \  kdma-dah  sarva-bhiitfindm  maharddhir  asurddhipah  \  7.  Ye 
cTiainam  abliivartante  ydchitdrah  itastatah  \  yachcha  yatra  yathdvachcha 
sarvam  tebhyah  prayachchhati (\  8.  Sa  tvam  sura-hitdrthdya  mdyd-yogam 
iipdsritah  \  vdmanatvam  gato  Vishno  liuru  kalydnam  uttamam  "  |  9.129 
\_Etasminn  antare  Rama  Kasyapo  ' ' gni-sama-pralhah  \  Adityd  saJiito 
Rdma  dipyamdnah  ivaujasd  \  10.  Devl-sahdyo  bhagavdn  divya-varsha- 
sahasrakam  \  vratam  samdpya  vara-dam  tublitdva  MadJiusudanam  \  11. 
"  Tapfomayam  tapo-rdsim  tapo-murtim  tapo-dlianam  \  tapasd  team  su- 
taptena  pasydmi  purushottamam  \  12.  S'arlre  tava  pasydmi  jagat  sarvam 
idam  prabho  \  tvam  anddir  anirdesyas  tvdm  aJiam  saranam  gatah  "  |  13. 
Tarn  uvticha  Harih  prltah  Kasyapam  dhuta-kalmasliam  \  varam  varaya 
lhadram  te  vartirho  'si  mato  mama  \  14.  Tach  chhrutvd  vachanam  tasya 
MdrlcJtah  Kasyapo  'bravit  \  " putratvam  gachchha  lhagavann  Aditydh 
mama  chdnagha  \  15.  Bhrdtd  bhava  yamydms  tvam  S'akrasyusura- 
sudana  \  sokdrtdndm  tu  devdndih  sdhdyyam  kartum  arhasi"  \  16.  Atha 
VisJinnr  mahdtejdh  Aditydm  samajdyata  \  chhatrl  bhikshuJca-rupena 
kamandalu-sikhojjvalah  \  ]  17.  Evam  uktah  suruir  Vishnur  vdmanam 
rupam  dsthitah  \  Vairochanim  updgamya  trln  yaydchdtmanah  kramdn  \ 

129  The  following  verses  9-16  seem  to  be  rightly  inclosed  in  brackets  by  Schlegel, 
as  interpolated.  A  comparison  of  verse  8  with  verse  17  shows  that  the  latter  must 
originally  have  followed  immediately  after  the  former.  It  will  be  seen,  however,  that 
in  verse  19  of  the  text  of  the  Bombay  edition,  as  quoted  further  on,  the  words  at  the 
beginning  of  verse  17  of  Schlegel's  edition  :  Evam  uldah* surair  Vishnuh  ("Vishnu 
being  thus  addressed  by  the  deifies"),  are  omitted,  and  tbe  appearance  of  interpolation 
is  avoided.  Compare  the  versions  of  the  story  given  below  from  the  Mahabhurata  and 
the  Bhagavata  Purana,  where  the  dwarf  is  said  to  have  been  the  son  of  Kasyapa  and 
Aditi.  This  is  also  the  parentage'  of  Vishnu  as  one  of  the  twelve  Adityas. — See 
above,  pp.  118  IF. 


HOW  COULD  BALI,  THE  GOES'  ENEMY,  SACRIFICE  TO  THEM?  131 

18.  Labdhvti  cha  trln  kramdn  Vish^uhtkritvd  rupam  athadbhutam  \ 
tribhih  kramais  tadd  lokdn  djahdra  tri-vikramah  \  19.  Ekena  hi  padd 
kritsndm  prithuim  so  'dhyatishthata  \  dvitlyendvyayani  vyoma  dydih 
tritlyena  Rdghava  \  20.  Tarn  chdsuram  Balim  kritvd  pdtdla-tala- 
vdsinam  \  trailokya-rdjyam  Indnlya  daddv  uddhritya  kantakam  \ 

The  readings  of  this  passage,  as  given  in  the  Bombay  edition t30  i. 
29,  2  ff.,  differ  occasionally  from  those  of  Schlegel's.  I  subjoin*them 
here :  2.  Iha  Rama  mahdbdho  Vishmir  deva-namaskritah  \  varshdni 
sulahunlha  tdthd  yuga-satdni  cha  \  3  |  tapas-charana-yogdrtham  uvdsa 
sumahdtapdh  \  [verses  3b  and  4a  Correspond, — with  only  the  difference 
of  liy  atra  for  atra, — with  verse  3  of  Schlegel's  edition]  4b  |  etasminn 
eva  kale  tu  raja  Vairochanir  Balih  \  5  \  nir\itya  daivata-gandn  sendrdn 
saha-marud-ganan  \  kdraydmdsa  tad-raj  yam  trislm  lokeshu  visrutah  \  6  | 
yajnam  cliakdra 131  sumahdn  asurendro  mahdfyilah  \  Sales  tu  yajamdnasya 
devdh  sugni-purogamdh  \  samdgamya  svayam  chaiva  Vishnum  uchur 
ihdsrame  \  7  |  "  Balir  Vairochanir  Vishno  yajate  yajnam  uttamam  \ 

130  See  Prof.  "Weber's  account  o£this  edition  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental 
Society  for  1863,  vol.  17,  pp.  771  ff. 

131  In  his  note  on  this  passage,  the  commentator  discusses  the  question  how*  Bali 
could  sacrifice  to  the  gods,  since  he  was  at  enmity  with  Indra  and  the  rest  of  them : 
Nanu  "asurasya  Baler  deva-dvisho  yagadyanupapattir  yaga-tarpamya-devatabhavad 
Indradlnam  tad-dveshyatvat  \  nacha  sabda-matram  devata  iti  yuktam  artha-vada- 
pramanyena  devatayah  vigrahavattvasya  uttara-mlmamsayam  siddhantitatvad"    iti 
diet  |  na  \  karma-deva-ajana-deva  bhedena  devanam  dvaividhyat  \  tatra  ye  karmana 
devatvam  praptas  te  karma-devah  \  ajana-devas  tu  yajna-mantrartha-bhutah  mantrena 
nitya-sambaddahkarma-devebhyaJyprachniah  eva  \  tat-karma-devanam  dveshyatve'py 
ajana-devanaih  yajne  tarpyatve  na  doshah  \  vighna-kartaro  'py  atra  karma-devah  eva  \ 
yajnadyadhikarabhavo  'py    ajana-devanam   eva    sva-yashtavya-devatantarabhavat  \ 
karma-devanain  tv  asty  eva  \  atah  eva  Indradlnam.  yajhadi-sravanam  na  anupannam  \ 

"But  is  there  not  an  absurdity  in  the  idea  of  sacrifice,  etc.,  being  celebrated  by 
Bali,  the  enemy  of  the  gods1'  from  there  being  no  deities  who  could  be  gratified  by  it, 
since  Indra  and  the  rest  of1  them  were  the  objects  of  his  hostility  ?  And  it  is  not 
correct  to  say  that  a  god  is  a  mere  name,  for  in  the  Uttara  Mlmamsa  the  corporeality 
of  the  deities  is  established  on  the  authority  of  the  ArthSvadas  (illustrative  passages  of 
the  Vedas).  [See  the  passage  of  Sankara's  Commentary  on  the  Brahma  or  Vedanta 
Sutras,  i.  3,  28,  quoted  in  the  third  vol.  ^tf  this  work,  pp.  99  if.,  especially  p.  102  at 
the  foot.]  If  this  objection  be  urged,  then  I  reply,  that  the  case  is  not  so ;  for  the 
gods  are  of  two  kinds,  work^gods,  and  those  who  are  gods  from  their  birth.  (See  the 
fifth  vol.  of  this  work.  p.  1 7,  f.  note  26,  and  the  S'atap^Br.  xiv.  7,  1,  34  f.)  Of  these 
two  kinds,  the  gods  who  have  become  such  by  works  of  merit  are  '  work-gods.'  But 
it  is  those  who  are  gods  from  their  birth  that  are  the  objects  of  the  sacrificial  formulas, 
and  eternally  connected  with  those  formuliis ;  anc5»  they  are  more  ancient  than  the 
'work-gods.'  Even  if  the  'work-gods'  be  objects  of  hostility,  no  exception  can  be 
taken  to  the  supposition  that  the  gods  by  birth  may  be  gratified  by  sacrifice.  And  in 


132  VISHNU'S  DWARF  INCARNATION 

asamtipta-vrate  tasmin  svakdryam  abhipadyatdm  \  [verses  8-1 5a  cor- 
respond with  verses  7-1 4a  of  Schlegel's  ed.,  substituting  however  tapdt- 
makam  for  tapo-dhanam,  and  purushopamam  for  purushottamam~\  I5b  \ 
Aditydh  devatdndm  cha  mama  chaivdnuydchitam  \  16  |  varam  varada 
suprlto  datum  arhasi  suvrata  \  [verse's  16J  and  17  agree  with  I4b  and 
15  of  Schlegel's  edition]  18.  Ay  am  Siddhdsramo  ndma  prasdddt  te 
bhapishyati  \  siddhe  karmani  devesa  uttishtha  bhagavann<itah  \  19.  Atha 
Vishnur  mahdtejdh  Aditydm  samajdyata  \  Vdmanam  rupam  dsthdya 
Vairochanim  updgamat  \  20  |  trlnpaddn  atha  bhikshitvd  pratigrihya  cha 
medinlm  \  dkramya  lokdn  lokdrthl  sarva-loka-hite  ratah  \  21  |  Mahen- 
drdya  punah  prdddd  niyamya  Balim  ojasd  \  trailokyam  sa  mahdtejds 
chakre  S'akra-vasam  punah  \ 

I  subjoin  the  text  of  the  same  passage  according  to  Signer  Gorresio's 
edition : 

Eamayana  (Gorresio's  ed.),  i.  32,  2  ff. — Esha  purvdsramo  Rama 
vdmanasya  mahdtmanah  \  siddhdsramah  iti  khydtah  siddho  yatra  mahd- 
yaidh  \  3.  Vishnur  vdmana-rupena  tapyamdno  mahat  tapah  \  trailokya- 
rdjye  'pahrite  Salinendrasya  Rdghava  \  [verses  4,  5,  6  correspond  word 
for  \rord  with  those  of  Schlegel's  edition]  7.  Tarn  tvam  vdmana-rupena 
qatvd  bhikshitum  arhasi  \  vikramdms  trin  maJidbdho  data  hiniyatam  sa  te  \ 
8.  Bhikshito  vikramdn  etdms  trin  virya-lala-darpitah  \  parilhuyajagan- 
ndtham  tulhyam  vdmana -rapine  \  9.  Ye  hy  enam  alhiydcltante  lipsa- 
mdndh  svam  ipsitam  \  tan  kdmair  Ipsitaih  sarvdn  yojayaty  asuresvarah  \ 
10.  Sa  tvam  trailokya-rdjyam  no  liritam  bhuyo  jagat-pate  \  datum  arhasi 
nirjitya  vikramair  bhuribhis  trilhih  \  11.  Ay  am  siddhdsramo  ndma 
siddha-karmd  Wiavishyati  \  tasmin  karmani  samsiddhe  tava  satya-pard- 
krama  \  [Gorresio's  edition  does  not  contain  any  verses  corresponding 
to  th-oke  marked  by  Schlegel  as  spurious,  viz.  lines  9-16  of  his  edition.] 
12.  Evam  uktah  surair  Vishnur  vdmanam  rupam  dsthitah  \  Vairochanim 
updgamya  trin  aydchata  vikramdn  \  [The  remaining  verses  are  word  for 
word  the  same  as  in  Schlegel's  recension.] 

the  case  before  us  it  is  the  '  work -gods '  who  are  the  disturbers  of  the  sacrifice. 
Further,  it  is  the  gods  by  birth  who  are  incapable  of  performing  sacrifice,  because 
there  are  no  other  deities  to  Wihom  they  could  offer  it.  J/See  the  first  vol.  of  this  work, 
p.  365,  note  163  ]  Wherens  the  '  work-gods'  can  perform  sacrifice.  Wherefore  the 
tradition  that  Indra  and  the  rest  performed  sacrifice  is  not  absurd."  It  is  strange  for 
readers  of  the  Vedic  hymns  to  fcj  told  that  Indra  is  not  au  object  of  worship  by 
sacrifice. 


ACCORDING  TO  THE  KAMAYAXA.  133 

/       i 

The  following  is  a  translation  of  the  passage  according  to  Schlegel's 
edition :  , 

Visvamitra  speaks  :  "  2.  In  this  place,  0  large-armed  Rama,  Vishnu, 
the  great  ascetic,  reverenced  by  the  gods,  dwelt  for  the  purpose  of  prac- 
tising austerity,  and  contemplation.     3.  This,  Rama,  was  the  former 
hermitage  of  th^  magnanimous  dwarf,  renowned  as  the  '  Hermitage  of 
the  Perfect,'  where  the  great  ascetic  was  perfected.     4.  Formerly,  Bali, 
the  son  of  Yirochana,  after  conquering  the  chief  of  the  gods  (Indr ; 
enjoyed  the  empire  of  the  three  worlds,  intoxicated  with  the  increase^  °f 
his  power.     5.  "When  Bali  was  then  celebrating  a  sacrifice,  Indra  and  [1  f°r 
other  gods,  disturbed  with  apprehension,  addressed  Vishnu  in  this  her 
age.    6.  '  That  mighty  Bali,  son  of  Virochana/0  Vishnu,  is  now  perfc 
ing  sacrifice, — he  who  grants  the  desires  o^all  creatures,  the  prospe  ;'hich 
lord  of  the  Asuras.     7.  Whatever  suppliants  wait  upon  him  from  wl 
ever  quarter,  he  bestows  on  them  in  a  proper  manner  all  whatever, 
of  any  sort  of  thing,  [they  wish].     8.  Do  thou,  0  Vishnu,  assuming 
a  magical  state  for  the  benetit  of  the  deities,  take  the  shape  of  a  dwarf, 
and  bring  about  our  highest  welfare.'     [9.  At  this  period,  0  Rama,  the 
divine  Kasyapa,  luminous  as  fire,  glowing,  as  it  were,  with  splendour, 
attended  by  the  goddess  Aditi,  (10)  having  completed  an  act  of  austerity 
which  had  lasted  for  a  thousand  years  of  the  gods,  celebrated  [thus] 
the  praises  of  the  boon-bestowing  Madhusuclana :  11.  '  Through  intense 
austerity  I  behold  thee,  the  supreme  Spirit,  whose  essence  is  austerity, 
who  art  a  congeries  01  austerity,  the  impersonation  of  austerity,  who  art 
rich  in  austerity.     12.  In  thy  body,  lord,  I  behold  this  whole  uni- 
verse ;  thou  art  unbeginning  and  ineffable ;  to  thee  .1  have  resorted 
as  my  refuge.'     13.  Then  Hari,   gratified,  spake  to  Kasyapa,  Vhose 
taint  of  sin  had  been  purged  away :   '  Ask  a  boon ;  jnay  good  attend 
thee ;  thou  art  regarded  by  me  as  deserving  a  boon.'     14.  Hearing 
these  words  of  his,  Kasyapa,  son  of  Marichi,  replied :  '  Sinless  lord, 
become  the  son  of  Aditi  and  myself.      15.    Slayer  of  the  Asuras, 
become  the  younger  brother  of   S'akra  (Indra).     Thou   oughtest  to 
succour  the  gods  who  ,are   oppressed   with*  grifcf.'     16.  Vishnu,  of 
mighty  energy,  was  accordingly  born  of  Aditi,  shaded  by  an  umbrella, 
in  the  form  of  a  mendicant,  resplendent  with  a  drinking  gourd,  and  a 
lock  of  hair  on  the  crown  of  his  head.]  17.  Thus  addressed  by  the  deities, 
Vishnu  took  the  form  of  a  dwarf,  and  approaching  the  son  of  Virochana, 

• 


134  VISHNU'S  DWARF  INCARNATION  ACCORDING  TO 

(       i 
begged  three  of  his  own  paces.     18.  Having  obtained  three  paces,  the 

thrice-stepping  Vishnu  assumed  a  miraculous  form,  and  with  three 
paces  took  possession  of  the  worlds.  For  with  one  step  he  occupied 
the  whole  earth,  with  a  second  the  eternal  atmosphere,  and  with  a 
third  the  sky,  0  Raghava,  Having  then  assigned  to  the  Asura  Bali 
an  abode  in  Patala  (the  infernal  region),  he  gave  tLe  empire  of  the 
three  worlds  to  Indra,  after  removing  his  enemy." 

I  subjoin  a  translation  of  those  parts  of  the  Bombay  text  which  are 
•  fferent  from  Schlegel's : 

2.  "In  this  place,  0  great-armed  Rama,  Vishnu,  the  great  ascetic, 

erenced  by  the  gods,  dwelt  very  many  years  and  hundreds  of  yugas, 
T  for  the  purpose  of  practising  austerity  and  contemplation.  [Verses 
•  euitiand  4o  are  almost  identical  with  the  reading  of  the  other  edition.] 
• .  But  at  this  very  period  the  renowned  King  Bali,  son  of  Virochana, 
(5)  having  conquered  the  hosts  of  the  deities,  including  Indra  and 
the  Maruts,  ruled  in  their  stead  over  the  three  worlds.  6.  This  very 
great  and  potent  lord  of  the  Asuras  celebrated  a  sacrifice.  While  he 
was-  doing  so,  the  gods,  headed  by  Agni,  assembled,  and  addressed 
Vishnu  in  this  hermitage.  7.  '  Bali,  the  son  of  Virochana,  0  Vishnu, 
is  celebrating  a  grand  sacrifice.  Let  his  rite  remain  incomplete ;  and 
let  our  object  be  attained.  [Verses  8-1 5a  correspond  very  nearly 
with  7-140  of  the  other  edition.]  153-163.  0  boon-bestowing, 
holy,  deity,,  be  well  pleased,  and  bestow  the  boon  which  Aditi,  the 
gods,  and  I  s.olicit.  [Verses  163  and  17  agree  with  143  and  15  of  the 
other  ed.]  l^a.  This  by  thy  favour  shall  be  called  Siddhasrama  (the 
hermitage  whe\re  the  work  was  accomplished).  The  work  being  ac- 
comphshed,  depart  hence,  0  king  of  the  gods.'  *  19.  Then  the  glorious 
Vishnu  was  boyn  of  Aditi.  Assuming  the  form  of  a  dwarf,  he  ap- 
proached the  sort  of  Virochana.  20.  Then  having  begged  for  three 
paces  of  ground, ,  and  having  occupied  the  earth,  he,  desiring  the 
worlds,  devoted  to  the  good  of  all 'creatures,  having  stalked  over  the 
worlds,  (21)  restored  them  to  Mahendra  fr(great  Indra),  having 
overcome  Bali  by  Jhis  night.  This  glorious  being  made  the  three 
worlds  again  subject  to  S'akra  (Indra)."  (See  note  129  above.) 

1  add  a  translation  of  tfeose  parts  of  Gorresio's  text  which  differ 
from  Schlegel's  : 

"  2.  This,  llama,  is  the  former  hermitage  of  the  magnanimous  dwarf, 


THE  RAMAYANA  AND  THE  MAHABHARATA.       135 

t       « 
called  the  'Hermitage  of  the- Perfect,' 1S1*  where  the  illustrious  Vishnu 

was  perfected,  (3)  when  performing  a  great  act  of  austerity  in  the  form 
of  a  dwarf,  [at  the  time]  when  the  empire  of  the  three  worlds  had  been 
taken  away  from  Indra  by  Baft.  [Verses  4-6  correspond  word  for 
word  with  those  of  Schlegel's  edition.]  7.  '  Now  thou  shouldst  go  in 
the  form  of  a* dwarf,  and  beg  three  paces,  0  large-armed.  8.  For, 
proud  of  his  valour  and  strength,  after  his  victory  over  the  lord  of  the 
world  (Indra),  he,  when  supplicated,  will  certainly  give  these  three 
paces  to  thee  [appearing]  in  the  form  of  a  dwarf.  9.  For  that  lord  of 
the  Asuras  fulfils  the  desires  of  all  those  persons  who  supplicate  him  for 
their  accomplishment.  10.  Thou,  lord  of  the  world,  oughtest  to  give 
us  back  the  empire  of  the  three  worlds  which  has  been  taken  away  from 
us,  after  thou  hast  conquered  it  by  three  vast  strides.  11.  This  which 
is  called  Siddhasrama  (the  hermitage  where  the  work  was  fulfilled),131* 
shall  be  [a  place]  where  this  work  is  fulfilled,  when  this  work  has 
been  accomplished  by  thee,  0  possessor  of  real  might.'  Thus  addressed 
by  the  deities,  Vishnu  assumed  the  form  of  a  dwarf,  and  approaching 
the  son  of  Virochana,  begged  for  three  paces."  (The  rest  corresponds 
with  Schlegel's  edition,  except,  as  above  stated,  in  the  omission  of 
verses  9-16  there  given.) 

The  following  are  two  brief  notices  of  the  dwarf  incarnation  from 
the  Mahabharata : 

Mahabharata,  S'antiparva,  vv.  12943  ff.  —  Virochanasya  lalavan 
Balih  putro  mahdsmah  \  abadkyah  sarva-lokdndm  sa-devdsura-rakshasdm\ 
bhavishyati  sa  S'akrancha  sva-rdjydd  charayishyati(=chydvayishyati?}  \ 
trailokye  'prahrite  tena  vimukhe  cha  S'achlpatau  \  Adityam  fofidasddityah 
sambhavishydmi  Kasytipdt  \  tato  rdjyam  praddsydmi  S'akrdydmitj,-tejase\ 
devatdh  sthupayishydmi  sveshu  sthdneshu  Ndrada  \  Balinchaiva  Jcarishydmi 
pdtdla-tala-vdsinam  \  Ddnavancha  Balim  sreshtham  aladhyam  sarva- 
daivataih  \ 

After  referring  to  his  Boar,  add  Man-lion  incarnations,  Vishnu  says 
to  Narada :  "  The  grept  Asura  Bali,  the  strong  son  of  Virochana,  shall  ' 
be  indestructible  by  all  beings,  including  gods,  Asuras,  and  Rakshasas. 
He  shall  oust  S'akra  (Indra)  from  his  kingdom.  "When  the  three 
worlds  have  been  taken  by  Bali,  and  the  iord  of  S'achi  (Indra)  has  been 
put  to  flight,  I  shall  be  born  in  the  form  of  the  twelve  Adityas,  the 

131*  The  participle  siddha  means,both  "  perfect"  and  "accomplished." 


136      VISHNU'S  DWARF  INCARNATION  ACCORDING  TO  THE 

son  of  Kasyapa  and  Aditi.  I  will  then  restore  his  empire  to  S'akra  of 
boundless  energy;  will  reinstate  the  gods  in  .their  several  positions; 
will  place  Bali  in  Patala,  the  eminent  Danava  Bali,  indestructible  by 
all  the  gods." 

Hahabharata,  Vanaparva,  vv.  484  ff. — 132Aditer  apt  putratvam  etya 
Yddava-nandana  \  tvarii  Vishnur  iti  vikhydtah  Indrdd  lttvarajo  vibhuh  \ 
sisur  bhutvd  divam  khancha  prithivincha  parantapa  \  trilhir  vikramanaih 
Krishna  krdntavdn  asi  tejasd  \  samprdpya  divam  dkdsam  dditya-sadane 
sthitah  \  atyarohascha  bhntdtman  bhdskpram  svena  tejasd  \  prddurbhdva- 
sahasreshu  teshu  teshu  tcayd  vilho  \  adharma-ruchayah  Krishna  nihatdh 
sataso'  surah  \  "And  thou,  Krishna,  of  the  Yadava  race,  having  be- 
come the  son  of  Aditi,  and  being  called  Vishnu,  the  younger  brother 
of  Indra,  the  all-pervading,,-  becoming  a  child,  0  vexer  of  thy  foes, 
hast  by  thy  energy  traversed  the  sky,  the  atmosphere,  and  the  earth, 
in  three  strides.  Having  attained  to  the  sky  and  the  ether,  and  oc- 
cupied the  abode  of  the  Adityas,  thou,  0  soul  of  all  beings,  hast  over- 
passed the  sun  by  thine  own  lustre.  In  tliese  thousands  of  thy  mani- 
festations, 0  all-pervading  Krishna,  thou  hast  slain  hundreds  of  Asuras 
who  delighted  in  iniquity." 

The  next  passage  is  a  short  notice  of  the  same  incarnation  from  the 
Vishnu  Purana : 

Vish.  Pur.  iii.  1  (p.  265  of  Wilson's  translation;  vol.  iii.,  p.  18,  of 
Dr.  Hall's  ed.). — Manvantare  tu  samprdpte  tathd  Faivasvate  dvija  \ 
vdmanah  Kasyapdd  Vishnur  Adityam  sambabhuva  ha  \  Tribliih  kramair 
imdn  lokan  jitvd  yena  mahdtmand  \  Purandardya  trailokyam  dattam 
nihata-kantakam  }  "So  when  the  Vaivasvata  manvantara  had  arrived, 
Vishnu*  was  born  as  a  dwarf,  the  son  of  Aditi  and  Kasyapa.  By  this 
great  being,  after  he  had  conquered  these  worlds  by  three  paces,  the  three 
worlds  were  given  to  Purandara  (Indra),  his  enemy  being  destroyed." 

The  story  of  Vishnu's  incarnation  as  a  dwarf  is  told  in  a  greatly 
developed  form  in  the  fifteenth  and  following  sections  of  the  eighth 
Book  of  the  Bhagavata  Purana.  As  tha  whole  Earrative  is  too  long  to 
be  quoted  here  in  extenstf}  I  shall  give  an  abstract  of  the  contents  of 
these  sections,  translating  in  full  some  of  those  portions  which  appear 
the  most  important.  The  stot'y  commences  thus : 

132  See  Lassen's  Indian  Antiquities,  vol.  i.,  p.  439,  note,  and  p.  779  f.  and  note  (pp. 
587,  and  921  of  the  second  edition). 


MAHABHARATA,  AND  THE  VISHNU  AND  BHAGAVATA  PURANAS.   137 

«       » 
Bhagavata  Purana,  viii.  15,'  1. — Baleh  pada-trayam  bhumeh  Icasmud 

Harir  aydchata  \  lhutvest\arah  kripana-val  labddrtho  'pi  babandha  tarn  \ 
2.  JEtad  veditum  ichJidmo  mahat  kautuhalam  hi  nah  \  yajnesvarasya 
purnasya  landhanam  chdpy  andgasah  \ 

The  king  asks:  "Why  did  Hari,  the  lord  of  creatures,  ask,  like  a 
poor  man,  three*  paces  of  land  from  Bali  ?  and  why,  when  he  had 
obtained  his  object,  did  he  bind  him  ?  2.  This  we  desire  to  know  ; 
and  we  have  a  great  curiosity ; — and  also  why  an  innocent  being  was 
bound  by  the  perfect  lord  of  sacrifice?"  The  sage  S'uka  replies 
(verses  3  ff.)  that  after  Bali  had  been  deprived  of  life  by  Indra,  he 
was  restored  by  the  Brahmans  of  the  race  of  Bhrigu,  who  consecrated 
him  for  supreme  dominion,  and  celebrated  for  him  a  Visvajit  sacrifice, 
which  had  the  virtue  of  enabling  him  to  conquer  all  his  enemies.  He 
then  sets  out  (verse  11),  attended  by  a  host  of  Daityas,  to  attack  the 
capital  of  Indra,  which  is  described  with  all  its  splendours  and 
attractions.  When  Bali  had  invested  the  city  (verse  23),  Indra 
inquires  of  his  spiritual  pre*ceptor  how  it  is  that  his  enemy  has  ac- 
quired this  tremendous  power,  which  appears  altogether  irresistible. 

The  preceptor  replies  (verses  15,  28  ff.) :  Jdndmi  Ifaghavan  satror 
unnater  asya  Icaranam  \  sishytiyopabhritam  tejo  Bhrigubhir  Irahma- 
vddibhih  \  29.  Bhavad-vidho  lhavdn  va'pi  varjayitvesvaram  Harim  \ 
ndsya  saktah  purah  sthdtum  kritdntasya  yathd  jandh  \  30.  Tasmdd 
nilayam  (=adarsanam,U3  Comm.)  utsrijya  yuyam  sarve  trivishtapam  \ 
ydta  kulam  pratikshanto  yatah  satror  viparyayah  \  31.  Esha  vipra- 
lalodarkah  sampraty  urjita-vikramah  \  teshtim  evdvamdnena  sdnubandho 
vinankshyati  \ 

"I  know,  Maghavari,  the  cause  of  the  exaltation  of  this  your  enemy 
to  be  the  might  imparted  to  their  pupil  by  the  Bhrigus,  the  declarers 
of  the  Yeda.  29.  No  one  such  as  you,  not  even  you  yourself,  [nor  any 
one]  excepting  only  Hari  the  lord,  is  able  to  stand  before  him,  as  men 
[are  unable  to  confront]  death.  30.  Wherefore  do  ye  all,  abandoning 
heaven,  disappear,  expecting  [the  operation  of]  time,  from  which 
[shall  come]  the  overthrow  of  your  enemy .»  31.  He  now  reaps  the 
fruits  of  Brahmanical  power,  and  thus  his  prowess  has  become  aug- 
mented. Through  contempt  of  these  sacse  Brahmans,  he  shall  perish 
with  all  his  dependents." 

133  The  word  nilaya,  however,  may  a^o  mean  "  abode,"  in  which  c^se  the  sense 
will  be  "abandoning  heaven,  your  abode,  dtpart,"  etc. 


138  DWARF  INCARNATION  OF  VISHNU 

(The  prophecy  here  uttered  in  regard -to  the  fall  of  Bali  as  a  result  of 
his  disregard  of  the  Brahmans  will  hereafter^ be  found  to  be  fulfilled. 
See  below,  sect.  20,  vv.  14  if.,  p.  145.) 

Following  the  advice  of  their  preceptor,  Indra  and  the  other  gods 
abandoned  heaven,  and  Bali  took  possession  of  the  celestial  capital, 
when  the  Bhrigus  celebrated  for  him  a  hundred  as vataedhas  (or  horse- 
sacrifices). 

The  sixteenth  section  opens  with  an  account  of  the  distress  of  Aditi, 
the  mother  of  the  gods,  at  the  discomfiture  of  her  sons  by  the  Daityas. 
She  receives  a  visit  from  her  husband  the  Prajapati  Kasyapa,  who 
makes  various  conjectures  about  the  cause  of  her  apparent  unhappiness, 
of  which  (verse  15  f.)  he' receives  an  explanation.  He  then  replies: 

(Sect.  16,  vv.  18  ff.) — Evam  alhyarthito  'dityd  Kas  tarn  cilia  smayann 
iva  \  aho  mdyd-balam  VishnoJi  sneha-baddham  idamjagat  \  19.  Kva  deho 
bhautiko  'ndtmd  leva  chdtmd  prakriteh  parah  \  kasya  ke  pati-putrddydh 
mohah  eva  hi  kdranam  \  20.  Upatishthasva  Purusham  bliagavantam 
Jandrdanam  \  sarva-bhuta-ffuhdvdsam  Vusudevaih  jagad-gurum  \  21. 
Sa  vidhdsyati  te  kdmdn  Harir  dlndnukampanah  \  amoghd  bhagavad- 
bhaktir  netareti  matir  mama  \ 

18.  "  Being  thus  entreated  by  Aditi,  Ka134  (Kasyapa)  answers  her, 
as  it  were  smiling,  '  0,  the  power  of  Vishnu's  illusion  !  this  world  is 
bound  by  affection.  19.  Where  is  this  elemental  body,  which  is  not 
soul  ?  and  where  is  soul,  which  is  superior  to  matter  ?  (i.e.  how  great  is 
the  superiority  of  soul  to  the  body  !) 135  Who  are  the  husband,  or  the 
sons,  or  other  relatives,  of  any  person  ? 136  (i.e.  there  are  no  such  things 

134  For  an  explanation  of  this  word  see  above,  p.  15,  rote  43.     Here  it  stands  for 
Kas'yapa. 

135  Compare  for  this  idiom  the  Raghuvaihs'a,  i.  2:  Kva  surya-prabhavo  vam&ah  kva 
chalpa-vishaya  matih  \  "  Where  is  the  race  descended  from  the  Sun,  and  where  is  my 
mind  of  which  the  (proper)  objects  are  so  small?"  i.e.  the  disproportion  between  the 
two  things  is  great. 

136  This  sentiment  appears  to  be  here  intended  as  orthodox  :  but  similar  observa- 
tions, when  made  in  the  Ramayana  (Schlegel's  and  Bombay  editions),  ii.  108,  3  f.,  are 
spoken  of  as  dharmapeta,  which  the  scholiast  in  the  Bombay  edition  interprets  as  = 
dharma-marga-viddham  lokayatika-matavalambanam,  i.e.,  "  opposed  to   righteous- 
ness, and  derived  from  the  tenets  of  the  Lokayatikas.'1'    The  words  there  are :  kah  kasya 
purusho  bandhuh  kim  apyam  kasy^kenachit  \  eko  hijayatejanturekahevavinasyati\ 
4  |  tasmad  matd  pita  cheti  Rama  sajjeta  yo  narah  \  unmattah  ivasajneyonastikaschid 
hi  kasyachit  \  3.  "  What  person  is  the  relation  of  any  (other)  ?  what  affinity  has  any 
one  with  another  ?    For  a  creature  is  born  alone,  and  perishes  alone.    4.  Whosoever, 


ACCORDING  TO  THE  BHAGAVATA  PUEANA.  139 

4  » 

as  real  relations) ;  delusion  alone  creates  them.  20.  Betake  thyself  to 
Purusha,  the  divine  Janardana,  who  dwells  in  the  heart  of  all  creatures, 
Vasudeva,  the  preceptor  of  the  world.  21.  Hari,  who  compassionates 
the  afflicted,  will  fulfil  thy  desires' :  devotion  to  the  lord,  and  that  alone, 
is  never  fruitless ;  such  is  my  judgment." 

Aditi  then  asks  how  she  is  to  worship  Vishnu  in  such  a  way  as  to 
obtain  her  desire,  and  receives  from  Kasyapa  an  account  (extending 
to  the  end  of  the  section)  of  the  milk  ceremonial  (payo-vrata)  which 
she  is  to  perform. 

She  accordingly  celebrates  the  prescribed  rite  (sect.  17  ff.),  when 
Hari,  the  primeval  Purusha,  appears  to  her  in  yellow  vesture,  with 
four  arms,  bearing  his  shell,  discus,  and'  club.  She  implores  his 
succour,  and  receives  an  assurance  that  he  has  been  gratified  by  her 
service,  which  shall  not  remain  unfruitful.  He  goes  on  to  say : 

(Sect.  17,  vv.  18  ff.) — Tvaydrchitas  chdham  apatya-guptaye  payo- 
vratendnugunam  samlditah  \  svdmsena  putratvam  upetya  te  sutdn  gop- 
tdsmi  Mdricha-tapasy  adhidhthitah  \  19.  Upadhdva  patim  lhadre  pra- 
jdpatim  alcalmasham  \  mum  cha  bhdvayatl  patydv  evamrupam  avasthitam  \ 
20.  Naitat  parasmai  dkhyeyam  prishtayd  Jpi  kathanchana  \  sarvam  sam- 
padyate  devi  deva-guhyam  susamvritam  \  21.  S'ukah  uvdcha  \  etdvad 
uktvd  bhagavdffis  tatraivdntaradhiyata  \  Aditir  durlabham  labdhvd  Harer 
janmdtmani  prabhoh  \  upiidhdvat  patim  Ihaktyd  parayd  krita-kritya-vat  \ 
22.  Sa  vai  samddhi-yogena  Kasyapas  tad  aludhyata  \  pravishtam  dtmani 
Harer  amsam  hy  avitathekshanah  \  23.  So  ''ditydm  vlrydm  ddhatta  tapasd 
chira-sambhritam  \  samdhita-mandh  rdjan  ddruny  agnim  yatJid  'nilah  \ 

"  '  Worshipped  by  thee  with  the  milk  ceremonial  for  the  deliverance 
of  thy  offspring,  and  Jauded  according  to  my  attributes,  I  shall,«with  a 
portion  of  myself,  become  thy  son,  and  deliver  thy  children,  presiding 
over  the  austerity  of  Marlcha  (Kasyapa).  19.  Wait,  virtuous  female, 

upon  thy  husband,  the  sinless  Prajapati,  meditating  on  me,  who  in 

» 

therefore,  is  attached  to  any  person,  (thinking  '  this  is  my)  father  or  mother,'  is  mad.' 
No  one  is  anything  to  8<iy  other."  The  word  apyam  in  verse  3,  which  I  have 
rendered  by  "  affinity,"  according  to  the  Vedic  sense  o,f  the  term,  is  explained  by  the 
commentator  as  =prapya»i,  "  to  be  obtained."  The  clause,  according  to  him,  would 
thus  mean :  "What  is  to  be  obtained  by  any  one  person  from  any  other?"  The 
word  may  here,  however,  perhaps  have  the  VecSc  sense,  although  it  is  unusual,  if 
not  elsewhere  unknown,  in  modern  Sanskrit.  "  Gorresio's  edition,  ii.  116,  12,  has 
Jtaryam  instead  of  apyam,  thus  making  the  meaning  to  be,  "  What  has  any  one 
person  to  do  with  any  other  ?  "  , 


140  BALI  IS  OUTWITTED  BY  VISHNU  IN  THE 

this  form  abide  within  him.  20.  This  must  not  in  any  way  be  dis- 
closed by  thee  to  any  one,  even  though  thou  art  asked.  The  secrets  of 
the  gods,  0  goddess,  issue  in  good  [only]  when  they  are  kept  con- 
cealed.' 21.  "When  the  deity  had  &dd  so  much,  he  disappeared  on 
the  spot.  Aditi,  having  obtained  the  [boon],  so  hard  to  obtain,  that 
Hari,  the  lord,  should  be  born  of  her,  waited  on  her  husband  with  the 
greatest  devotion,  like  one  who  had  obtained  her  object.  22.  Kasyapa 
with  certain  intuition  understood  by  the  power  of  contemplation  that 
a  portion  of  Hari  had  entered  into  (him.  23.  "With  contemplative 
mind,  he  impregnated  Aditi  with  the  generative  fluid  which  he  had 
accumulated  by  long  austerity,  as  the  wind  forces  fire  into  wood." 

"We  have  already  seen  ^that  Vishnu,  in  his  character  as  one  of  the 
Adityas,  also,  was  the  son  of  Kasyapa  and  Aditi  (see  above,  p.  118  if.). 
The  connexion  with  the  old  legend  is  therefore  preserved  here,  as  well 
as  in  the  story  given  in  the  Bombay  edition  of  the  Kamayana,  above, 
pp.  132  and  134. 

The  eighteenth  section  relates  how  HaVi  was  born  of  Aditi,  to  the 
great  delight  of  all  creatures,  and  how  he  then  took  the  form  of  a  dwarf : 

(Sect.  18,  v.  12). —  Yat  tad  vapur  bhdti-vilhushandyudhair  avyakta- 
cMd  vyaktam  adJidrayad  Harih  \  babhuva  tenaiva  sa  vamano  latuh  sam- 
pasyator  divya-gatir  yatTid  natah  \  "  With  that  body  which  Hari,  the 
invisible  spirit,  had  assumed,  and  which  was  manifested  by  splendour, 
by  its  ornaments,  and  by  weapons, — with  that  same  body,  he,  whose 
ways  are  supernatural,  became,  while  [his  parents]  were  looking  on,  a 
dwarfish  Brahmanical  student,  as  an  actor  [changes  his  character]." 

He  afterwards  went  to  attend  the  asvamedha  sacrifices  celebrated  for 
Bali  by  the  Bhrigus  on  the  banks  of  the  river  Narmada.137  Bali 
welcomes  the  young  Brahman  dwarf  with  respect,  offers  him  a  seat, 
and  washes  his  feet.  The  narrative  then  proceeds : 

(Sect.  18,  v.  28  ff.) — Tat-pdda-saucham  jana-kalmashapaham  sa 
,dharma-vid  murdhny  adhdt  sumangalam  \  yad  deva-devo  Girisas  chandra- 
maulir  dadhdra  murdhnd  par  ay  a  cha  lhaktyq  \  29.  Balir  uvdcha  \ 
svdgatam  te  namas  tubliyan  brahman  kim  karavdma  te  \  brahmarshlnum 
tapah  sdkshdd  manye  tv  drya  vapur-dharam-\  ....  32.  Yad  yad  bato 
vdnchhasi  tat  pratlchha  me  tyam  arthinam  vipra-sutdnutarkaye  \  gam 

137  It  is  to  be  noticed  that  the  scene  of  this  sacrifice  is  on  earth,  though  Bali,  as  we 
were  told  above,  had  taken  possession  of  Indra's  heaven. 


FOEM  OF  A  DWARFISH  BRAHMAN  STUDENT.  141 

kdncJianam  gunavad  dhdma  mrisJitam  tafhd.  'nna-peyam  uta  vd  vipra- 
kanydm  \  grdmdn  samriddhdms'turagdn  gajdn  vd  rathdms  tatkd  'rhattama 
sampratlchha  \  28.  "Acquainted  with  duty,  he  placed  upon  his  head 
the  auspicious  water  with  which  the  Brahman's  feet  had  been  washed, 
which  removes  the  sins  of  men,  and  which  Girisa  (Siva),  the  god  of 
gods,  who  wears  the  moon  for  a  frontal  ornament,  bore  on  his  head, 
with  supreme  devotion.  29.  Bali  said :  '  Welcome  to  thee,  reverence 
to  thee,  Brahman,  what  can  we  do  for  thee  ?  honourable  man,  I  regard 

thee  as  the  visible,  impersonated  austerity  of  Brahman-sages 

32.  Ask  of  me,  student,  whatever  thou  desirest ;  son  of  a  Brahman,  I 
conclude  that  thou  art  a  suppliant ;  ask,  most  venerable  youth,  a  cow, 
pure  gold,  an  embellished  house,  food  and  drink,  or  a  Brahman's 
daughter,  flourishing  villages,  horses,  or  elephants,  and  carriages.'  " 

In  section  nineteenth  the  dwarf  answers  Bali  in  a  speech  compli- 
mentary to  himself  and  his  ancestors,  and  craftily,  with  a  hypocritical 
pretence  of  moderation  not  very  creditable  to  a  god,  ends  with  the 
seemingly  modest  demand  of  three  paces  of  ground  : 

(Sect.  19,  v.  16  if.) — Tasmdt  tvatto  mahlm  Ishad  vrine  'ham  varadar- 
shabhdt  \  paddni  trini  daityendra  sammitdnl  padd  mama  \  17.  Ndnyat 
te  Icdmaye  rdjan  vaddnydj  jagadl£vardt  \  nainah  prdpnoti  vai  vidvdn 
ydvad-artha-pratigrahah  \  18.  Balir  uvdeJia  \  Aho  Brdhmana-ddydda 
vdchas  te  vriddha-sammatdh  \  tvam  bdlo  bdlisa-matih  svdrtham  pra- 
ty  abudho  yathd  \  19.  Mum  vachobhih  samdrddhya  lokdndm  ekam 
Isvaram  \  pada-trayam  vrinlte  yo  'buddhimdn  dvlpa-ddsusham  \  20. 
Na  pumdn  mdm  upravrqfya  bhuyo  ydchitum  arhati  \  tasmdd  vritti- 
karlm  bhumim  bato  kdmam  pratichha  me  \  21.  S'rl-bhagavdn  uvdcha  \ 
ydvanto  vishaydh  preshthds  trilokydm  ajitendriyam  \  na  saknuvanti  te 
sarve  pratipurayitum  nHpa  \  22.  Tribhih  kramair  asantushto  dvlpendpi 

na  pur y ate  \  nava-varsha-sametena  saptadvlpa-varechhayd  \ 

27.  Tasmdt  trini  paddny  eva  vrine  tvad  varadar&habhdt  \  etdvataiva 
siddho  'ham  vittam  i/dvat  prayojanam  \  28.  S'ukah  uvdcha  \  ity  uktah 
sa  hasann  aha  vdnchhitam  pratigrihyatdm  \  vdmandya  mahlm  datum 
jagrdha  jala-bhdjanam  j, 

"Wherefore  I  ask  from  thee,  the  chief  of  the  bountiful,  a  small  por- 
tion of  ground,  three  paces,  lord  of  the  Daityas,  measured  by  my  step. 
17.  I  desire  nothing  more  from  thee,  the  generous  lord  of  the  world. 
A  wise  man  incurs  no  sin  when  he  asks  [only]  as  much  as  he  needs. 


142  US'ANAS  WARNS  BAII  AGAINST 

18.  Bali  answered :  '  Thy  words,  son  of  a  Brahman,  are  such  as  beseem 
an  old  man.  Thou  art  a  youth,  with  the  mind  of  a  stripling,  and  like 
one  ignorant  regarding  his  own  interest.  19.  He  is  not  wise  who,  having 
by  words  reverenced  me,  the  sole  lord  of  the  worlds,  asks  me,  the  bestower 
of  continents,  for  three  paces  of  ground.  20.  It  is  not  fit  that  a  man 
should  come  to  me  and  make  repeated  requests  :  wherefore  freely  ask  me 
for  ground  sufficient  for  thy  subsistence.'  21.  The  deity  replied  :  '  All 
the  desirable  objects  in  the  three  worlds  cannot,  0  king,  satisfy  the  man 
whose  senses  are  unsubdued.  22.  He  who  is  not  contented  with  three 
paces  of  ground  will  not  be  satiated  even  with  a  continent,  and  its  nine 
divisions  (varshas],  since  he  will  desire  the  gift  of  the  seven  con- 
tinents.138 ....  27.  "Wherefore  I  desire  from  thee,  who  art  the  chief 
of  the  bountiful,  only  thre&  paces  of  ground.  With  so  much  as  suffices 
for  my  maintenance  I  am  complete.'  28.  Being  thus  addressed,  Bali 
said,  smiling,  'take  what  thou  desirest ;'  and  with  the  view  of  giving 
the  land  to  the  dwarf,  he  took  a  vessel  of  water." 

TJsanas,139  however,  Bali's  priest  and  preceptor,  recognizing  Vishnu 
in  the  dwarf,  and  knowing  the  god's  designs,  here  interposes,  and 
warns  the  monarch  against  granting  the  ground  solicited : 

(Sect.  19,  v.  29  if.) — Vishnave  kshmdm  praddsyantam  Usand  asure- 
svaram  \  jdnans  chilarshitam  Vishnoh  sishyam  prdha  viddm  tarah  \  30. 
S'ukrdchdryah  uvucha  \  iLsha  Vairochane  sdlcshdd  lhagavdn  Vishnur 
avyayah\  Kasyapad  Aditer  jdto  devdndm  Jcarya-sddhakah]  31.  Pratisrutam 
tvayaitasmai  yad  anartham  ajdnatd  \  na  sddhu  manye  daitydnam  mahdn 
upagato  'nayah  \  32.  Esha  te  sthdnam  aisvaryarn  sriyam  tejo  yasah 
£rutam  \  ddsyaty  dchhidya  S'akrdya  mdyd-mdnavaho  Harih  \  33.  Tribhih 
kramair  imdn  lokdn  visva-kdyah  kramishyati  \  sarvasvaih  Vishnave  dattvd 
mudha*  vartishyase  hatham  \  34.  Kramato  gain  padaikena  dvifiyena 
divam  vibhoh  \  kharh  cha  kdyena  mahatd  tartly asy a  huto  gatih  \  35.  Nish- 
thdm  te  narake  manye  hy  apraddtuh  pratisrutam  \  pratisrtxtasya  yo 
''nlsah  pratipddayitum  bhavdn  \  36.  Na  tad  ddnam  prasamsanti  yena 
rvrittir  vipadyate  \  ddnam  yajnas  tapdk  karma  loke  vrittimato  yatah  \  37. 
Dharmdya  yasase  'rthdya  Icdmdya  svajandya  chsi  \  panchadhd  vilhajan 
vittam  ihdmutra  cha  modate  \  38.  Atrdpi  bahvrichair  gitam  srinu  me 

133  See  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  489  ff.  for  an  account  of  these  continents 
and  varshas.  < 

139  See  the  second  volume  of  this  work,  p.  386,  note  65. 


COMPLYING  WITH,  THE  DWARF'S  REQUEST.  143 

1 '  sitra-sattama  \  satyam  om  iti  yat  proktafh  yan  nety  dhdnritam  hi  tat  \ 
39.  Satyam  pushpa-phalam  vidytid  dtma-vrikshasya  jlvatah  \  vnkshe 
'jlvati  tan  na  sydd  anritatm  mulam  dtmanah  \  40.  Tad  yatM  vriksJiah 
unmulah  sushyaty  udvartate  ychirdt  \  evam  nashtdnritah  sadyah  dtmd 
sushyed  na  samsayah  \  41.  Parug* riktani  apiirnam  vai  ahsharam  yat 
tad  "07«"  iti  |  yat  kinchid  "  om"  iti  briiytit  tena  richyeta  vai  pumdn  \ 
42.  Bhikshave  scjrvam  om  kurvan  ndlam  kdmena  chdtmane  \  athaitat 
purnam  abhydtmam  yach  %ha  nety  anritam  vacJiah  \  43.  Sarvam  nety 
anritam  Iruyut  sa  dushkirtih  svasan  mritah  \  strishu  narma-vivahe  cha 
rritty-arthe  pruna-sanlcate  \  go-brahmanarthe  himsayam  nunritam  sydj 
jugupsitam  \ 

29.  "  Usanas,  chief  of  the  wise,  knowing  Yishnu's  intention,  thus 
addresses  his  pupil,  the  chief  of  the  Asuras,  who  was  about  to  give  the 
earth  to  that  deity :  30.  '  This,  0  son  of  ^irochana,  is  manifestly  the 
divine,  undecaying  Yishnu  himself,  born  of  Kasyapa  and  Aditi,  [to 
be]  the  fulfiller  of  the  purposes  of  the  gods.  31.  That  ill-advised 
promise  which  thou,  unwittingly,  hast  made  to  him,  is  not,  I  con- 
sider, to  the  advantage  of  the*  Daityas ; — a  great  error  has  been  com- 
mitted. 32.  This  illusory  dwarf,  having  bereft  thee  of  thy  place, 
dominion,  prosperity,  splendour,  renown,  and  sacred  knowledge,  will 
give  them  to  S'akra.  33.  He  whose  body  is  the  universe,  will  traverse 
these  worlds  in  three  strides ;  fool,  where  shalt  thou  abide,  when  thou 
hast  given  all  thy  possessions  to  Vishnu  ?  34.  "Where  shall  there  be 
room  for  the  third  pace  of  the  all-pervading  being  when  he  has 
traversed  the  earth  with  one  pace,  the  sky  with  a  second,  and 
[occupied]  the  heaven  with  his  vast  body?  35.  I  think  that  thy 
abode  shall  be  in  hell,  when  thou  art  unable  to  give  all  that  thou  hast 
promised,  since  thou  shalt  not  be  master  (so  as  to  bestow  it)  of  what 
thou  hast  engaged  to  give.  36.  Men  do  not  approve  that  gift  by 
which  [the  donor's]  livelihood  is  ruined  :  for  [it  is  understood]  in  the 
world  that  gifts,  sacrifices,  austerities,  ceremonies,  are  only  performed 
by  those  who  have  the  means.  37.  The  man  who  divides  his  pro- 
perty into  five  parts  destined  severally  for  purposes  of  religion,  renown, 
personal  interest,  pleasure  and  family  support,*  is  happy  in  this  world 
as  well  as  in  the  next.110  38.  Hear  from  me,  most  excellent  of  the 

• 

uo  The  drift  of  verses  38  ff.,  which  are  founded  upon  a  p.Jssage  of  the  Veda  quoted 
by  the  commentator,  is  thus  explained  by  him :  Nanu  tarhi  pratisrutya  "  na  "  iti 


144       IN  WHAT  CIRCUMSTANCES  A  PROMISE  IS  NOT  BINDING. 

Asuras,  what  has  been  sung  on  this  subject  by  teachers  of  the  Kigveda  : 
to  say  "  yes  "  is  to  be  true  ;  to  say  "  no  "  is  to  be  false.  39.  Know  that 
truth  is  celebrated  as  the  flower  and  fruit  of  that  tree,  one's  self,  while 
it  is  alive;  but  this  cannot  be  the  case  unless  the  tree  lives;  [therefore, 
when  it  tends  to  our  preservation],  falsehood  is  the  root  of  one's  self.  40. 

katham  anritam  vaehyam  \  tatra  aha  sardhhaih  shadbhih  \  atrapi  satyanrila-vyavas- 
thayam  bahvricha-srutya  hiprathamam  "  'o»z'  iti  satyam  lna'  iti*  anritam  "  ity  Mind 
satyanritayor  lakshana-purvakam  stuti-nindabhyam  satyam  vihitam  anritam  cha 
nishiddham  anantaram  cha  "parag  vai  etad  riktam  aksharam  "  ityadina  satye  doshan 
anrite  cha  gunan  uktva  "  tasmat  kale  eva  dadyat  kale  na  dadyat  tat  satyanrite  mith- 
unlkaroti'"  ity  upasamharena  vritti-sankatc^iishv  anritam  apy  anujnatam  tarn  imam 
sruty-artham  dars'ayann  aha  \  "But  the  objection  arises,  how,  after  promising,  can  a 
man  say  '110,'  and  thus  be  guilty  of  falsehood  ?  To  this  he  replies  in  six  and  a  half 
verses.  Here,  with  a  view  tot  fixing  the  rules  regarding  truth  and  falsehood,  after 
having  first  of  all  stated  the  characteristic  marks  of  each,  according  to  these  words  of 
the  Rigvedic  doctors,  '"yes"  is  truth,  and  "no"  is  falsehood,'  etc.,  and  having  by 
praise  and  blame  shown  that  truth  is  enjoined  and  falsehood  forbidden,  he  cites  the 
clause,  'this  word  denotes  removal  and  evacuation,'  etc.,  to  indicate  the  faults  of  truth 
and  the  virtues  of  falsehood ;  and  lastly,  after  quoting  the  words,  '  he  combines  truth 
and  falsehood  by  saying  "  let  a  man  give  and  withhold  on  the  proper  occasions,"  '  he 
sums  up  by  deciding  that  falsehood  is  permitted  jyhen  necessary  for  the  sake  of  sub- 
sistence, and  in  straits,  etc.  Propounding  this  doctrine  of  scripture,  he  says,  etc." 

The  words  of  the  passage  here  referred  to,  from  a  Bahvricha-S'ruti  (Rigveda 
Brahmana  or  Upanishad,  which  is  unknown  to  me),  as  quoted  by  the  commentator 
in  his  notes  on  verses  40,  41,  and  42  of  this  passage,  are  as  follows  :  "  Om"  iti  satyam 
"na"  ity  anritam  \  tad  etat  pushpam  phalamvacho  yat  satyam  \  sa  ha  ts'varo  yasasvl 
kalyana-kirtir  bhavita  \  pushpam  hi  phalam  vachah  satyam  vadati  \  atha  etad  mulam 
vacho  yad  anritam  \  tad  yatha  vrikshah  avirmulah  sushyati  sa  udvartate  evam  eva 
anritam  vadann  avirmulam  atmanam  karoti  sa  sushyati  sa  udvartate  \  tasmad  anritam 
na  vaded  dayeta  tv  enena  \  [anena  tv  anritena  "  dayeta  "  sankateshv  atmanam  rakshed 
iti  s'ruty-arthah  \  Comm.]  parag  vai  etad  riktam  aksharam  yad  etad  "om"  iti  \  tad 
yat  kincha  "  om"  ity  aha  atra  eva  asmai  tad  richyate  \  sa  yat  sarvam  l<  om  "  kuryad 
richyad  atmanam  sa  kdmebhyo  nalam  syat  \  Atha  etat  purnam  abhyatmam  yad 
"na"  iti  \  sa  yat  sarvam  "na"  iti  brut/at  papika  'sya  klrtir  jayeta  \  sa  enam  tatra 
eva  h'anyat  \  Tasmat  kale  eva  dadyat  kale  na  dadyat  t'dt  satyanrite  mithun'i karoti  \ 

"'Yes'  (om)  is  true,  'no'  is  false.  Truth  is  the  flower,  and  the  fruit,  of  speech.  He 
shall  be  lord,  famous,  of  excellent  renown :  for  he  utters  truth,  the  flower,  and  the  fruit, 
of  speech.  Again,  falsehood  is  the  root  of  speech.  Just  as  a  tree,  the  root  of  which 
is  exposed,  dries  up,  and  falls,  so  a  man,  uttering  a  falsehood,  exposes  his  own  roots, 
dries  up,  and  falls.  Wherefore  let  no  man  utter  falsehood,  but  let  him  protect  him- 
self by  it."  [Such  is  the  sense  assigned  to  dayeta  tv  enena  by  the  commentntor,  who 
adds  "  in  straits."]  "  This  word,  '  yes,'  denotes  remove!  and  emptiness.  Therefore 
by  every  '  yes'  which  is  uttered,  emptiness  is  occasioned.  The  man  who  says  always 
'  yes '  will  empty  himself,  and  not  have  sufficient  for  his  wishes.  Again,  the  word 
'no'  denotes  fulness  in  one's  own  interest.  He  who  says  always  'no'  will  acquire 
an  evil  reputation,  whicl?  will  Straightway  destroy  him.  Wherefore  he  combines 
truth  and  falsehood  by  [the  rule]  let  a  man  give  and  withhold  at  the  proper  times." 


BALI  DISOBEYS  HIS  PRECEPTOR  AND  IS  CURSED  BY  HIM.     145 

Wherefore,  as  a  tree,  when  uprooted,  oHes  up  and  falls,  so  too  we  our- 
selves, if  we  abandon  falsehood,  shall  undoubtedly  become  dried  up. 
41.  The  word  "yes"  denotes  removal,  evacuation,  and  emptiness;  when- 
ever, then,  any  person  says  "yes,"  he  will  be  emptied  out.  42.  By  con- 
tinually saying  "  yes  "  to  an  applicant,  a  man  does  not  retain  enough 
to  satisfy  his>own  desires;  whilst  a  false  "no"  [preserves  our]  full 
[property]  for  ourselves.  43.  The  man  whose  every  "  no"  is  false,  is 
infamous,  and  dead  eveti  while  he  breathes.  But  falsehood  is  not 
blamable  when  addressed  to  women,  or  in  jest,  or  in  reference  to  a 
marriage,  or  for  subsistence,  or  when  life  is  in  danger,  or  on  behalf  of 
cows  and  Brahmans,  or  when  one  is  exposed  to  violence.' " 

Bali,  however,  refuses  (sect.  20,  vv.  2  ff.)  tto  break  his  promise,  what- 
ever consequences  to  himself  may  result.  He  is  thereupon  cursed  by 
his  preceptor  for  his  disobedience  :  * 

(Sect.  20,  w.  14  ff.) — Evam  asraddhitarn  sishyam  anddesa-Jcaram 
guruh\  sasdpadaiva-prahitahsatyasandhammanasvinaml  15.  "  Dridham 
pandita-mdny  ajnah  staldho  ^sy  asmad-upekshayd  \  mach-chhdsandtigo  yas 
tvam  achirdd  bhrasyase  sriyah"  \  16.  JEvam  saptak  sva-gurund  satydd 
na  chalito  maJidn  \  vdmandya  daddv  endm  architvodaka-purvakam  \  17. 
Vindliydvalu  tadd  "gatya patrii  jdlaka-m,dliriiM  \  dninye  kalasam  haimam 
avanejany-apdm1"'  bhritam  \  18.  Yajamdnah  svayarn  tasya  srlmat-pdda- 
yugam  mudd  \  atanijydvahad  murdhni  tad-apo  visva-pdvamh  \ 

14.  "  The  preceptor,  impelled  by  fate,  cursed  his  disciple,  thus  devoid 
of  faith  and  disobedient,  yet  wise  and  true  to  his  promise ;  [saying],  15. 
'  Though  thou  regardest  thyself  as  extremely  learned,  thou  art  ignorant 
and  stubborn  in  thy  contempt  of  us :  but  thou  who  transgressest  my 
commandment,  shalt  soon  fall  from  thy  prosperous  state.'  16.  Though 
thus  cursed  by  his  preceptor,  this  great  [monarch],  who  would  not  depart 
from  truth,  gave  this  [earth]  to  the  dwarf,  after  making  an  obeisance  and 
pouring  water  [on  his  hand].  17.  Then  his  wife  Vindhyavali,  wearing 
a  necklace  of  pearls,  approaching^  brought  a  golden  vessel  filled  with 
water  for  ablution.  18.  Next  the  offerer  of  the  sacrifice,  after  himself' 
washing  with  delight  tne  blessed  feet  [of  the  Brahman],  bore  upon  his 
head  the  world-purifying  water  which  had  been  so  employed." 

This  magnanimous  act  of  Bali  is  applauded  by  the  celestials,  and 

141  Jalakam  muktabhar ana-vis eshah  \  Comm. 
M*  Avanejanlnam  apam  \  Comm. 
VOL.  iv.  ,      10 


146      THE  DWARF  EXPANDS  AND  OCCUPIES  THE  UNIVERSE. 

rewarded  by  them  with  a  shower  di"  flowers,  and  by  strains  of  music. 
Immediately,  however,  the  body  of  the  dwarf  begins  to  expand : 

(Sect.  20,  v.  21.) — Tad  vdmanam  rupam  avardhatddbhutam  Harer 
anantasya  guna-traydtmakam  \  bhuh  kTiam  diso  dyaur  vivardh  payodhayas 
tiryan-nri-devdh  rishayo  yad  dsata  \  "  That  dwarfish  body  of  the  infinite 
Hari,  consisting  of  the  three  qualities,  increased  miraculously,  [that 
body]  in  which  were  comprehended  the  earth,  the  air,  the  points  of  the 
compass,  the  sky,  the  abysses,  the  oceans,  brutes,  men,  gods  and  rishis." 

A  further  account  of  this  vast  body,  of  the  effect  which  the  appear- 
ance of  it  produced  on  the  Asuras,  and'1  other  beings,  is  given  in  verses 
22-32 ;  and  at  length  the  strides  of  the  deity  are  thus  described : 

(Sect.  20,  v.  33.) — Kshif.im  padaikena  Baler  vichakrame  nabhah  iarl- 
rena  disascha  bdhubhih  \  padam  dvitlyam  Jcramatas  trivishtapam  no,  vai 
tritiydya  tadiyam  anv  api  \  rfrukramasydnghrir  upary  upary  atho  mdhar- 
jandbhydm  tapasah  par  am  gatah  \  "  He  traversed  the  earth  of  Bali  with 
one  pace ;  and  [occupied]  the  air  with  his  body  and  the  points  of  the 
compass  with  his  arms.  His  second  pace,,  as  he  strode,  [filled]  the 
heaven ;  and  not  even  the  minutest  fraction  of  it  remained  for  a  third 
pace.  The  foot  of  the  wide-striding  deity  rose  upwards  and  upwards, 
and  then  reached  beyond  the  Mahar-,  Jana-,  and  Tapo-lokas."  U3 

The  gods  assemble  (sect.  21)  to  do  homage  to  Hari  on  his  victory, 
which  they  celebrate  with  great  rejoicing,  and  which  is  proclaimed  by 
the  king  of  the  bears : 

(Sect.  21,  vv.  8  ff.) — Jdmbavdn  rihha-rdfas  tu  bheri-sabdair  mano- 
javah  |  vijayam  dikshu  sarvdsu  mahotsavam  aghoshayat  \  9.  Mahlm 
sarvam  Jiritam  drishtva  tri-pada-vyaja-yachnayd  \  uchuh  sva-bhartur 
asurah  dlkshitasyatyamarshitah  \  10.  Na  vai  ay  am  brahma-landhur 
Tishnur  muydvindm  varah  \  dvija-rupa-pratichhanno  deva-kuryam 
chiklrshati  \  11.  Anena  yachamanena  satrund  batu-rupind  \  sarvasvam 
no  Jiritam  bhartur  nyastadandasya  varhishi  \  12.  Satya-vratasya  satatam 
dikshitasya  viseshatah  \  ndnritam  bhd$ituih  sakyam  brahmanyasya  dayd- 
vatah  |  13.  Tasmdd  asya  badhe  dharmo  bhartuh  susrushane  cha  nah  \  ity 
dyudhdni  jagrihur  Baler  anuchardsurah  \  14.  Te'lsarve  vamanam  hantum 
sula-pattisa-pdnayah  \  anichhato  £aleh  rdjan  prddravan  jdtamanyavah  \ 

8.  "  Jambavat,  king  of  the  bears,  swift  as  thought,  proclaimed  this 

<L 

us  See  Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana  (p.  48,  note,  and  p.  213  =  pp.  98,  vol.  i.,  and  226, 
Tol.  ii.,  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.)  for  an  account  of  these  Lokas. 


BALI  IS  BOUND  AND  REPROACHED  BY  VISHNU.  147 

victory,  the  occasion  of  great  festiAdtyJ  with  sound  of  kettledrums,  iu 
all  the  regions.  9.  Beholding  the  whole  earth  taken  from  their  master 
when  consecrated  for  sacrifice,  by  an  artful  request  for  three  paces  of 
ground,  the  Asuras,  greatly  incensed,  exclaimed :  10.  '  This  is  certainly 
not  a  petty  Brahman,  but  Vishnu,  the  chief  of  magicians ;  disguised 
under  the  forai  of  a  twice-born  man,  he  seeks  to  accomplish  the  pur- 
poses of  the  gods.  11.  By  this  enemy,  in  the  form  of  a  suppliant  student, 
has  been  taken  all  the  property  of  our  master,  who  had  laid  down  his 
sceptre  on  the  sacrificial  grass.  12.  Untruth  cannot  be  uttered  by  one 
who  is  always  devoted  to  truth— especially  when  he  is  consecrated, — 
by  one  who  is  pious  and  compassionate.  13.  Wherefore  it  is  our  duty 
to  slay  him  (the  dwarf),  and  obey  our  master : ' — so  saying,  the  Asuras, 
followers  of  Bali,  seized  their  weapons.  14.  Against  the  wish  of  Bali, 
they  all  ran,  infuriate,  pikes  and  axes  in  :Aand,  to  slay  the  dwarf."  U4 

This  attack  of  the  Asuras  is,  however,  derided  by  the  followers  of 
Vishnu,  who  kill  some  of  them,  and  they  are  at  length  restrained  by 
Bali,  who  points  out  that  tyne  and  fate  are  at  present  unfavourable  to 
his  cause.  Bali  is  then  bound  in  the  chains  of  Varuna,  and  reproached 
by  Vishnu  for  failing  to  fulfil  his  promise : 

(Sect.  21,  v.  26.) — Atha  Tdrkshy-suto  jndtvd  Virdt  prabhu-chiklrshi- 
tam  |  babandha  Vdrunaih  pdsair  Balim  sautye  'hani  kratau  \  27.  Hdhd- 
kdro  malidn  asld  rodasyoh  sarvato-disam  \  grihyamdne  'sura-patau 
Vishnund  prabhavishnund  \  28.  Tarn  baddham  Vdrunaih  pdsair  bliagavdn 
aha  vdmanah  \  nashta-sriyam  sthira-prajnam  uddra-yasasam  nripa  \  29. 
Paddni  trini  dattdni  bhumer  mahyam  tvayd  'sura  \  dvdbhydm  krdntd 
maJil  sarvd  tritiyam  upakalpaya  \  30.  Ydvat  tapaty  asau  gobhir  ydvad 
Induh  sahodubhih  \  Ydvad  varshati  Parjanyas  tdvatl  bhur  iyam  tava  \ 
31.  Padaikena  may  a  Jtrdnto  bhurlolcah  khaih  disas  tanoh  \  svarlokas  tu 
dvitiyena  pasyatas  te  svam  dtmand  \  32.  Pratisrutam  addtus  te  niraye 
vdsah  ishyate  \  visa  tvaih  nirayam  tasmdd  gurund  chdnumoditah  \  33. 
Vrithd  manor athas  tasya  dura-svafgah  (duresvargah,  Bombay  ed.)  pataty 

adhah  \  yo  viprdya  pratisrutya  na  tad  ar pay  ate  'rthitamU5  \  34.    Vipra- , 
» 

144  It  will  be  observed  that  here  the  dwarf  is  still  represented  as  having  that  shape, 
though  he  had  been  above  described  as  assuming  a  superhuman  form  and  filling  all 
the  worlds.     Yet  though  he  is  spoken  of  as  a  Brahman  dwarf,  he  is  said  to  have  had 
followers  who  easily  defeated  the  Asuras  of  Bali:* 

145  The  reading  given  of  this  line  is  that  of  Burnouf's  edition.     The  Bombay 
edition  has  instead  of  it:  pratisrutasyadanena  yo  'rthinam,  vipralambhate  \  "who 
deceives  a  suppliant  by  not  giving  him  what  had  been  promised/'         , 


148  BALI  SENT  TO  THE  INFERNAL  REGIONS. 

labdho  dadumlti  tvayd  ''ham '  chqdhya-mdnind  \  tad-vyalika-pfialam 
Ihunkshva  nirayam  katichit  samdh  \  26.  "Then  Yirat  (Garuda),  the 
son  of  Tarkshya,  knowing  the  purpose  of1  the  lord,  bound  Bali 
with  the  bonds  of  Yaruna146  at  the  sacrifice  on  the  day  of  the 
Soma  libation.  27.  A  great  lamentation  arose  in  all  the  quarters 
of  the  two  worlds  (heaven  and  earth),  when  the  Lord  of  the  Asuras 
was  seized  by  the  puissant  Yishnu.  28.  Him  bound  with  the 
bonds  of  Yaruna,  whose  prosperity  was  destroyed,  but  whose  under- 
standing was  firm,  and  whose  renown  was  vast,  the  divine  dwarf  thus 
addressed :  29.  '  Asura,  three  paces  of  ground  were  given  to  me  by 
thee :  with  two  paces  the  entire  world  has  been  traversed :  find  a  place 
for  the  third.  30.  This  would  of  thine  extends  as  far  as  that  [sun] 
warms  with  his  beams,  as  far  as  the  moon  shines  with  the  stars,  as  far 
as  Parjanya  rains.  31.  Wita  one  pace  I  traversed  the  region  of  the 
earth,  and  [occupied]  the  air  and  regions  with  my  body;  and  whilst 
thou  wast  looking  on,  I  [traversed]  the  sky  with  a  second  [pace, 
filling]  thy  possessions  with  myself.  32.  As  thou  hast  not  given  what 
was  promised,  it  is  my  pleasure  that  thou  shalt  dwell  in  the  infernal 
regions ;  enter  therefore  thither,  with  the  approbation  of  thy  preceptor. 
33.  That  man's  desires  are  frustrated,  and  he  falls  downward,  far 
from  heaven,  who,  after  promising  to  a  Brahman,  does  not  deliver  to 
him  what  he  had  solicited.  34.  I  have  been  deluded  by  thee,  thinking 
thyself  wealthy,  when  thou  saidst  "I  give."  Endure  the  infernal 
regions  for  some  years  as  the  penalty  of  that  deceit.'  " 

Bali  answers  as  follows  (sect.  22) : 

(Sect.  22,  v.  2). —  Yady  uttama-sloka  bhavdn  mam&ritam  vacJio  vyalikam 
tura-varya  many  ate  \  karomy  ritam  tad  na  bhavet  pralamblianam  pudam 
tritlyum  kuru  slrshni  me  nijam  \  3.  Bibhemi  ndham  nirayat  pada-chyuto 
na  pasa-bandhad  vyasandd  duratyaydt  \  naivartha-krichhrad  bhavato 
viniyrahat  asadhu-vaddd  bhrisam  udvije  yatlid  \ 

2.  "If,  renowned  chief  of  the  gods,  thou  considerest  the  word  which 
'I  uttered  to  be  deceitful,  I  now  make  it  good, — and  here  there  can  be  no 
deception, — place  thy  third  step  on  my  head.'  3.  Fallen  from  my 
position,  I  fear  not  the  infernal  regions,  nor  binding  in  bonds,  nor  mis- 

146  See  Manu,  viii.  82 ;  ix.  308. <  In  R.  V.  yii.  65,  3,  Mitra  and  Varuna  are  said 
to  be  bhuri-pasav  anritasyct  setu  \  "  barriers  against  falsehood,  furnished  with  many 
nooses." — See  Roth's  article  on  the  principal  gods  of  the  Arian  nations,  "  Journal  of  the 
German  Oriental  Society,"  vol.  vi.  p.  73,  and  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  57,  65. 


BALI  PRAISED,  AND  HIS  EXALTATION  PROMISED  BY  VISHNU.  149 

fortune  difficult  to  escape,  nor  lofcs  of  wealth,  nor  thy  restraint,  so 
much  as  I  am  afflicted  by  a  bad  name." 

He  then  goes  on  to  express  his  sense  of  his  conqueror's  superiority, 
and  submission  to  his  fate.  He  is  now  visited  and  consoled  by  his 
grandfather  Prahrada.  His  wife  Vindhyavali  nexts  worships  Vishnu ; 
and  then  Brahma  intercedes  in  behalf  of  the  Asura  monarch.  Vishnu, 
after  making  some  general  reflections,  replies  as  follows  : 

(Sect.  22,  v.  28). — Esha  ddnava-daitydndm  agranlh  klrti-vardhanah  \ 
ajaishid  ajaydm  mdydm  sldann  api  na  muhyati  \  29.  Kshlna-rikthaS 
chyutah  sthundt  kshipto  baddhascha  satrubhih  \  jndtibhischa  parityahto 
ydtandm  anuydpitah  \  30.  Gurund  bhartsitah  sapto  jahau  satyam  na 
suvratah  \  chhalair  ulcto  mayd  dharmo "  [.quere  dharmam  ?]  nay  am 
tyajati  satyavulc  |  31.  Esha  me  prdpitah  sthdnam  dushprdpam  amarair 
api  |  Sduarner  antarasydyam  lhavitendro  mad-dirayah  \  32.  Tdvat 
sutalam  adhydstdm  Visvaharma-vinirmitam  \  yan  nddhayo  vyddhayascha 
Mamas  tandrd  pardbhavah  \  nopasa/rgdh  nivasatdm  sambhavanti  mame- 
chJiayd  |  i 

28.  "  This  chief  of  the  Danavas  and  Daityas,  and  enhancer  of  their 
renown,  has  conquered  unconquerable  Delusion  :  though  dispirited,  he 
is  not  bewildered.  29.  Having  lost  his  prosperity,  fallen  from  his  place, 
cast  down  and  bound  by  his  enemies,  abandoned  by  his  relations,  in- 
volved in  suffering,  30.  reprehended  and  cursed  by  his  preceptor,  still, 
faithful  to  his  obligation,  he  has  not  abandoned  truth.  [Though]  duty 
has  been  inculcated  by  me  in  a  deceitful  fashion,  this  truthful  being 
does  not  swerve  from  it.147  31.  He  has  [therefore]  been  elevated  by  me  to 
a  position  to  which  even  the  immortals  with  difficulty  attain :  he  shall 
be  the  Indra,  supported  by  me,  of  the  Savarni  Manvantara.  32. 
Meanwhile  let  him  occupy  Sutala,  formed  by  Visvakarman,  where,  by 
my  will,  neither  mental  nor  bodily  pains,  nor  fatigue,  nor  weariness, 
nor  discomfiture,  nor  diseases  afflict  the  inhabitants." 

(Sect.  23,  v.  2). — Bali  replies  thus :  Aho  prandmdya  Itritah  samud- 
yamah  prapanna-bhaktdrtha-vidhau  samdhitah  \  yal  lokapdlais  tvadantt- 
graho  'marair  alabdha-piirvo  'pasade  'sure  'rpitah  \  3.  S'ukah  uvdcha  \ 
ity  uktva  Harim  dnamya  Brahmdnam  sa-Bhavam  tatah  \  vivesa  Sutalam 
prlto  JSalir  muktah  sahdsuraih  \  2.  "  '  0,  even  the  effort  made  to  adore 

••  i 

147  If  we  should  read  dharmam  instead  of  dharmah,  the  sense  would  be  :  "  Though 
deceitfully  addressed  by  me,  he  does  not  abandon  duty." 


150  US'ANAS  PAYS  HONOUR" TO  VISHNU. 

thee  succeeds  in  effecting  the  objectwrf  the  devout  man  who  seeks  thee; 
seeing  that  thy  favour,  such  as  has  not  heen  before  attained  by  the 
immortal  guardians  of  the  worlds,  has  been  'bestowed  on  me,  a  de- 
graded Asura.'  3.  Having  thus  spoken,  and  bowed  down  to  Hari, 
to  Brahma,  and  to  Bhava  (S'iva),  Bali,  being  released,  entered  Sutala 
with  joy,  along  with  the  Asuras."  Vishnu  now  addresses  Usanas, 
the  priest  of  Bali  : 

(Sect.  23,  v.  13). — Athdhoianasam  rdj'an  Harir  Ndrdyano  'ntike  \ 
dslnam  ritvijdm  madhye  sadasi  Irahma-vddindm  \  14.  Brahman  santanu 
sishyasya  karma-chhidram  vitanvatah '  |  yat  tat  karmasu  vaishamyam, 
brahma-drishtani  samam  lhavet  \  15.  S'ukrah  uvdcha  \  Kutas  tat-karma- 
vaishamyam  yasya  karmesvaw  bhavdn  \  yajneso  yajnapurushah  sarva- 
Ihdvena  pujitah  \  16.  Mantratas  tantratas  chhidram  desa-kdldrha-vas- 
tutah  |  sarvam  Icaroti  nischJtidram  anusanJcirtanam  tava  \  17.  Tathdpi 
vadato  bhiiman  karishydmy  anusdsanam  \  etach  chhreyah  param  pumsdm 
yat  tavdjndnupdlanam  \  18.  S'uJcah  uvdcha  \  abhinandya  Harer  djndm 
Usand  bhagavdn  iti  \  yajna-chhidram  samddhatta  Baler  mprarshibhih 
saha  \  19.  Evam  Baler  mahlm  rdjan  bhikshitvd  vdmano  Harih  \  dadau 
Ihrcttre  Mahendrdya  tridivam  yat parair  hritam  \  13.  "Hari  Narayana 
then  approaching  Usanas  sitting  among  the  priests,  in  an  assembly  of 
expounders  of  the  Yeda,  thus  addressed  him:  14.  'Brahman,  rectify 
the  irregularities  of  thy  pupil  in  performing  the  ceremonial :  whatever 
fault  there  is  in  any  rite  is  removed  if  it  be  seen  by  a  Brahman.'  15. 
S'ukra  (TJsanas)  replied :  '  How  can  there  be  any  irregularity  in  that 
ceremony  of  which  thou  art  the  lord,  the  lord  of  sacrifice,  the  sacrificial 
Man,  adored  in  every  aspect?  16.  Whatever  defects  there  may  be 
in  respect  of  texts,  of  order,  of  place,  of  time,  of  persons,  or  of 
materials, — the  mere  celebration  of  thee  obliterates  them  all.  17. 
Nevertheless,  great  being,  I  shall  fulfil  the  injunction  which  thou 
utterest :  this  is  the  highest  happiness  of  men,  to  obey  thy  commands.' 
18.  Having  assented  to  the  order  of  fHari,  the  divine  Usanas,  with  the 
°Brahman-rishis,  rectified  the  irregularities  of  Bali's  sacrifice.  19. 
Having  in  this  manner  begged  the  earth  from'  Bali,  the  dwarf  Hari 
gave  [back]  to  his  brother  Mahendra148  the  heaven  which  had  been 

taken  from  him  by  his  enemies." 

( 

143  Vishnu  is  called  TJpendra  (the  inferior  or  younger  Indra),  the  brother  of  Ma- 
hendra, the  great  Indra. — See  ahove,  p.  133,  line  6  from  the  bottom. 


REFERENCES  TO  THE  HARIVAMS'A,  AGNI  AND  MATSTA  PURANAS.  151 

Though  the  whole  tenor  of  thi-j  legend,  and,  indeed,  of  the  entire 
Bhagavata  Purana,  represents  Vishnu,  of  whom  the  dwarf  was  an 
incarnation,  as  the  supveme  deity,  it  is  now  rather  strangely  said  that 
Brahma  and  the  other  deities  made  the  dwarf  governor  of  all  things : 

(Sect.  23,  v.  20). — Prajdpati-patir  Brahma  devarshi-pitri-bhumipaih\ 
Daksha-Bhrigv-Angiro-mukhyaih  Kumar  ena  Bhavena  cha  \  21.  Katya- 
pasydditeh  prliyai  sarva-lhuta-lhavdya  cha  \  lokdndm  loka-pdldndm 
akarod  vdmanam  patim  \  '22.  Veddndm  sarva-devdndm  dharmasya  yasasah 
sriyah  \  mangaldndm  vratdndncha  kalpam  svargdpavargayoh  \  23.  Upen- 
dram  Italpaydnchdkre  patim  sArva-vibhutaye  \  tadd  sarvdni  bhutdni 
bhrisam  mumudire  nripa  \  20.  "  Brahma,  the  lord  of  the  Prajapatis, 
together  with  the  gods,  rishis,  pitris,  with  Daksha,  Bhrigu,  Angiras, 
and  other  lords  of  the  earth,  with  Kumara,  and  Bhava,  21.  with  a 
view  to  the  gratification  of  Kasyapa  aud  Aditi,  and  the  good  of  all 
creatures,  made  the  Dwarf  master  of  the  worlds  and  of  the  guardians 
of  the  worlds.  22,  23.  He  made  TJpendra  (Vishnu)  master  of  the 
Vedas,  of  all  the  gods,  of  righteousness,  renown,  prosperity,  blessings, 
and  ceremonies,  and  lord  of  heaven  and  final  liberation,  in  order  that 
he  might  have  command  of  all  things.  Then  all  creatures  rejoiced 
exceedingly." 

The  section  concludes  with  the  verse  I  have  already  quoted  above 
(p.  72)  in  glorification  of  Vishnu,  followed  by  a  statement  of  the 
benefits  resulting  from  hearing  the  story  of  the  Dwarf  incarnation. 

This  incarnation  is  also  briefly  related  in  the  Agni  Purana,  iv.  55-11, 
and  is  either  referred  to,  or  narrated  more  or  less  diffusely,  in  the 
Harivamsa,  verses  2725;  4159;  4166;  12195-12204;  and  12900- 
14390.  In  the  last-mentioned  verses  the  story  is  told  at  length,  with 
the  various  conflicts  between  the  gods  and  Asuras  by  which  it  had 
been  preceded.  The  incarnation  itself  and  its  results  are  related  in 
vv.  14039-14390.  Sections  231-233  of  the  Matsya  Purana  are  de- 
voted to  the  same  subject.149  I  j»ive  an  abstract  of  the  47th  section,  in 

which  Vishnu's  incarnations  are  enumerated.150     It  is  here  stated  thJt 

• 

it  was  in  consequence  of  a  curse  pronounced  by  Bhrigu  (as  we  shall 

i 

U9  See  Prof.  Aufrecht's  Catalogue,  p.  426.  The  Matsya  Purana  has  been  litho- 
graphed and  published  at  Bombay,  with  a  Mahratti  explanation;  but  the  portion 
containing  the  sections  in  question  has  not  yet  Cached  me. 

150  In  verse  9  it  is  said  that  Kasyapa  was  a  portion  of  Brahma,  and  Aditi  of  the 
Earth  (Brahmanah  Kas'yapas  tv  amsah  PritMvyas  tv  Aditis  tatha). 


152  ABSTRACT  OF  THE  CONTENTS  OF  THE 

see  further  on)  that  Vishnu1-' assumed  most  of  these  forms  (v.  37). 
There  were  twelve  conflicts  between  the  gods  and  Asuras  (vv.  39-52). 
It  is  related  (vv.  58  ff.)  that  on  one  occasion  when  Prahrada  had  been 
overcome,  and  Indra  had  gained  th,.e  empire  of  the  three  worlds, 
S'ukra,  the  priest  of  the  Asuras,  left  them  and  went  to  the  gods.150* 
They,  however,  entreated  him  not  to  desert  them,  when  he  reassured 
them  by  the  promise  of  his  support  (vv.  60  ff.).  They  were  never- 
theless attacked  by  the  gods,  and  again  resorted  to  S'ukra ;  when  their 
assailants  left  them.  S'ukra  then  referred  to  their  former  discomfitures, 
counselled  them  to  wait  for  a  favourable  turn  of  fortune,  and  declared 
his  intention  to  resort  to  Mahadeva  and  obtain  certain  sacred  texts 
which  would  insure  their  yietory  (vv.  65  ff.).  They  then  promised  to 
the  gods  to  desist  from  hostilities  and  betake  themselves  to  austerities 
(vv.  73  ff.).  S'ukra  accordingly  went  to  Mahadeva  and  asked  for 
texts  more  powerful  than  those  possessed  by  Brihaspati,  the  priest  of 
the  gods;  when  the  deity  directed  him  to  perform  a  painful  rite, 
imbibing  the  smoke  of  chaff  (kana-dhuma)  *51  with  his  head  downward 
for  a  thousand  years.  This  he  agreed  to  do  (vv.  78  if.).  Hearing  of 
this,«and  taking  advantage  of  the  defenceless  state  of  the  Asuras,  the 
gods  went  to  attack  them.  The  Asuras  remonstrated,  and  in  the 
absence  of  S'ukra,  resorted  to  his  mother  for  help,  and  were  reassured 
by  her  (vv.  83  ff.).  The  gods,  however,  followed,  and  assailed  them, 
when  the  goddess  (S'ukra's  mother — her  name  is  not  given),  by  her 
magical  power,  rendered  Indra  helpless,  and  then  the  other  gods  took 
to  flight  (vv.  91  ff.).  Vishnu,  however,  now  interposed,  and  desired 
Indra  to  enter  into  him  (Vishnu).  This  provoked  the  goddess,  who 
threatened  to  burn  them  up.  Indra  called  upon  Vishnu  to  slay  her 
before  she  could  carry  her  threat  into  effect.  Vishnu,  though  hesi- 
tating to  kill  a  female,  cut  off  her  head  with  his  weapon  (vv.  95  ff.). 
Vishnu  was  hereupon  doomed  by  a  curse  of  S'ukra  to  be  born  seven 
times  in  the  world  of  men ;  and  in  consequence  of  this  he  appears  for 

13°*  Compare  Tandya  Mahabrahmana,  yii.  5,  20 :  Us'ana  vai  Kavyo  'suranam 
purohitah  aslt  \  tarn  devah  kamadughabhir  (kama-dugdhab'nir  gobhih  \  Comm.)  upa- 
mantrayanta  \  tasmai  etany  a&sanani  prayachhan  \  kamadughah  vai  ausanani  \ 
"  Us'anas  Kavya  was  the  priest  of  the  Asuras.  The  gods  incited  him  with  milch 
cows.  They  gave  him  these  Aus'ana  texts.  Aus'ana  texts  are  milch  cows." 

141  I  have  to  thank  Prof.  Aufrecht.for  pointing  out  an  explanation  of  this  phrase 
given  by  the  commentator  on  the  Kas'T  Khanda  of  the  Skanda  Pur.  16,  2,  viz. 
Kanah  khanditas  tandulatushas  tajjanyam  dhutnam  \ 


FORTY-SEVENTH  SECTION  OF  THE  MATSYA  PUR  ANA.      153 

the  good  of  the  world  when  unrighteousness  prevails:182  (vv.  102 
tarn  drishtvd  stri-badham  ghoram  chukrodha  Bhrigur  Isvarah  \  tato 
'bhisapto  Bhrigund  Vishnur  bhdryd-badhe  tadd  \  103  |  yasmdt  te  jdnato 
dharmam  abadhyd  stri  nishuditd  \  tqsmdt  tvam  saptakritveha  munusheshu- 
papatsyasi  \  104  |  tatas  tendbhisdpena  nashte  dharme  punah  punah  \ 
lokasya  cha  hit&rthdya  jay  ate  mdnusheshv  iha}.  S'ukra  then  sprinkled 
his  mother  with  water,  and  restored  her  to  life,  an  act  and  result 
which  were  applauded  by  all  creatures  (vv.  105  if.).  Indra  now,  with 
the  intention  of  counteracting  S'ukra's  austerities,  sent  his  daughter 
JayantI  to  the  saint  to  wait  upon  and  soothe  him  by  her  assiduous 
and  affectionate  attentions  and  services,  till  the  conclusion  of  his 
painful  performances  (vv.  Ill  ff.).  She  found  him  in  the  act  of  being 
thrown  down  into  the  pit  of  fire  by  the  Yaksha  who  had  prepared  it, 
and  drinking  in  the  smoke  of  the  chaif,  wii!h  his  head  downward,  and 
though  enfeebled,  yet  tranquilly  meditating  on  the  form  of  Mahadeva 
(vv.  116  ff.  tarn  drishtva  tu  pibantam  sd  Jcanadhumam  avdnmukham  \ 
yalcshena  pdtyamdnam  cha,  ki^nda-dhdrena  pdtitam  \  drishtva  cha  tarn 
pdtyamdnam  devl  Kdvyam  avasthitam  \  svarupa-dhydna-sdmyantam 
durbalam  bhutim  dsthitatri) ;  lauded  him  with  endearing  language,  and 
rubbed  his  limbs  with  her  gentle  touch  (v.  118).  At  the  conclusion 
of  his  austere  rite,  continued  for  a  thousand  years,  Mahadeva  applauded 
him  as  the  only  person  who  had  ever  performed  it ;  and  granted  him  a 
variety  of  boons,  including  superiority  to  the  gods.  S'ukra  lauded  the 
god  in  a  hymn  of  41  stanzas,  consisting  of  an  enumeration  of  his 
attributes  (vv.  119  ff.).  Mahadeva,  gratified,  touched  the  saint  with 
his  hand,  granted  him  a  vision  of  his  form,  and  then  disappeared 
(v.  167).  S'ukra  then  noticed  JayantI  standing  beside  him,  expressed 

162  I  have  not  elsewhere  met  with  an  explanation  of  Vishnu's  incarnations  so  dis- 
honourable to  the  god.  Yet  even  here  he  is  said  to  be  born  for  the  good  of  mankind 
when  righteousness  has  declined,  with  a  view  to  its  restoration — a  singular  result  of 
a  curse !  Compare  the  passage  from  the  Bhagavadglta  given  above,  p.  53,  and  vv.  7 
and  8  of  the  4th  sect,  of  the  same  work :  ^Tada  yada  hi  dharmasya  glanir  bhavati 
Bharata  \  abhyutthanam  adharmasya  tada  "tmanaih  srijamy  aham  \  paritranciya 
sadhunam  vinasaya  cha  duslfkritam  \  dJiMrma-samsthapanarthaya  sambhavami  yuge 
yuge  \  "Whenever  righteousness  declines,  and  unrighteousness  arises,  then  I  create 
myself.  For  the  deliverance  of  the  good  and  the  destruction  of  the  wicked,  I  am 
born  in  every  Yuga."  See  also  the  32nd  verse  of  the  hymn  to  Vishnu  in  the  10th 
Canto  of  the  Raghuvams'a :  Anavaptam  avaptavyayi  na  te-tkinchana  vidyate  \  loka- 
nugrahah  evaiko  hetus  te  janma-karmanoh  \  "Thou  hast  nothing  unobtained  to 
obtain.  Kindness  to  men  is  the  only  cause  of  thy  birth  and  of  thy  action." 


154  CONTINUATION  OF  ABSTRACT  OF  THE 

himself  gratified  by  her  devoted  attentions,  asked  her  what  she  wished, 
and  promised  to  bestow  it.  She  replied  that  he,  in  virtue  of  his 
transcendent  knowledge,  should  know  whatcshe  wished.  Her  desire 
was,  he  said,  to  live  in  his  company  for  ten  years.  This  he  granted, 
and  took  her  home  and  married  her.  They  lived  together,  rendered 
invisible  to  all  eyes  by  his  magical  power,  for  ten  years  (vv.  168  ff.). 
The  Asuras,  however,  learning  the  success  of  their  preceptor's  aus- 
terities, came  to  his  abode,  but  failed  to  see  him.  Brihaspati,  the 
preceptor  of  the  gods,  knowing  that  S'ukra  would  be  occupied  with 
JayantI  for  ten  years,  at  the  instigation  of  Indra,  took  advantage  of 
this  circumstance  to  assume  his  form,  and  summoning  the  Asuras, 
passed  himself  off  to  th^nl  as  their  spiritual  guide,  and  offered  to  act 
as  their  teacher,  an  offer  which  they  gladly  accepted  (vv.  177  ff.).  As 
the  fruit  of  S'ukra's  ten  years'  cohabitation  with  JayantI,  a  daughter, 
Devayam,  was  born.  S'ukra  then  resolved  to  visit  his  pupils,  and  in- 
formed JayantI  of  this  intention,  the  fulfilment  of  which  she  admitted 
to  be  a  duty,  and  said  she  would  not  stand  in  the  way  of  its  perform- 
ance. He  accordingly  went  and  found  that  the  Asuras  had  been 
deluded  by  Brihaspati,  who  had  assumed  his  (S'ukra's)  form.  He  told 
them  that  he  was  S'ukra;  and  when  they  were  bewildered  by  the 
sight  of  the  two  sages  identical  in  appearance,  he  repeated  that  he 
was  their  genuine  preceptor,  and  that  the  other  was  Brihaspati,  and 
demanded  that  they  should  forsake  the  latter,  and  follow  him.  They, 
however,  were  unable  to  distinguish  between  the  two ;  and  Brihaspati 
asseverated  that  he  was  the  genuine  S'ukra,  and  that  the  other  was 
Brihaspati.  The  Asuras,  considering  that  the  person  who  had  taught 
them  for  ten  years  was  their  real  preceptor, ,  made  obeisance  to  him, 
and  angrily  rejected  the  claim  of  S'ukra  to  be  their  Guru.  They  were 
in  consequence  doomed  by  the  curse  of  the  incensed  sage  (S'ukra)  to 
lose  their  senses  and  incur  defeat  (vv.  183  ff.).  Satisfied  with  this 
result,  Brihaspati  reassumed  his  < own  proper  form,  and  disappeared. 
Seeing  that  they  had  been  deluded,  the  Asuras,  headed  by  Prahrada, 
followed  S'ukra,  and  appeared  before  him'  with  downcast  looks. 
Though  at  first  angry,  he  was  at  length  pacified  by  their  entreaties, 
reassured  them  by  saying  that  they  would  regain  their  senses  and 
gain  one  victory  over  the"  gods,  though  after  that  they  should  have 
to  descend  to  the  infernal  regions,  the  period  of  their  dominion  de- 


FORTY-SEVENTH  SECTION  OF  THE  MATSYA  PURANA.       155 

clared  by  Brahma  having  then  expired.  JIn  the  Savarni  Manvantara, 
however,  they  were  destined  to  regain  supremacy,  and  Bali,  grandson 
of  Prahrada,  would  become  lord  of  the  worlds.  Another  boon  was 
destined  for  Prahrada,  which  Brahma  had  forbidden  S'ukra  to  reveal 
(vv.  201  ff.).  Elated  by  this  prediction  of  their  future  ascendancy, 
the  Asuras  desired  to  anticipate  the  time  of  its  realization,  and 
challenged  the  gods  to  battle.  A  combat  ensued,  which  lasted  for 
a  thousand  years,  at  the"  end  of  which  the  Asuras  were  victorious. 
The  gods  then  took  counsel  together,  and  invited  S'anda  and  Marka  153 
(who  are  mentioned  in  verse  39,  and  appear  to  be  the  pupils 
of  Brihaspati  alluded  to  in  v.  221)  to  abandon  the  Asuras,  and  aid 
them  (the  gods)  in  their  sacrifice.  If  they,  succeeded  in  obtaining 
this  aid,  they  were  confident  they  should  overcome  the  Asuras.  S'anda 
and  Marka  accepted  the  invitation,  and  the  ^ods  conquered  the  Asuras ; 
who,  being  forsaken  by  these  two  priests,  and  undergoing  the  con- 
sequences of  S'ukra's  curse,  were  expelled  by  their  adversaries  from 
the  upper  world,  and  entered,  the  infernal  regions  [226.  Yajnenopdh- 
vaydmas  tau  tato  jeshydmahe  'surdn  j  tadopdmantrayan  devdh  S'andd- 
markau  tu  tdv  ubhau  \  227.  yajne  chdhuya  tau  proktau  "  tyajetdm 
asurdn  dvijau  \  vayam  yuvdm  bhajishydmah  saha  jitvd  tu  ddnavdn"  \  228. 
evam  kritdbhisandhi  tau  S'anddmarkau  surds  tathd  \  tato  devdh  jayam 
prdpur  danavds  cha  pardjitdh  \  229.  S'anddmarka-parityaktdh  ddnavdh 
hy  alalds  tathd  \  evam  daitydh  purd  Kdvya-sdpentibhihatds  tadd  \  230. 
Kdvya-sdpdbhibhutds  te  nirddhdrds  cha  sarvasah  \  nirasyamdndh  devais 
cha  vivism  te  rasdtatam  \  ]  (vv.  223  if.).  In  consequence  of  S'ukra's 
curse,  which  operated  periodically,  Vishnu  was  born  time  after  time, 
(see  above,  p.  152),  after  a  decline  of  righteousness,  which  he  re-estab- 
lished, destroying  the  Asuras.  For  Brahma  had  decreed  that  all  those 
Asuras  who  should  be  disobedient  to  Prahrada154  should  be  slain  by 
men  (231.  tatah-prabhriti  sdpena  Bhrigor  naimittikena  tu  \  232.  jajne 
punah  jpunar  Vishnur  dharme  pr(\sithile  prabhuh  \  kurvan  dharma- 
vyavasthdnam  asurdndm  prandsanam  \  233.  Prahrddasya  nidese  tu 
na  sthdsyanty  asurds  cha  ye  \  manushya-badhyds  te  sarve  Brahmeti.vyd- 
harat  prabhuh  \  Yishnu's  incarnations  are  then  enumerated  (verses 

153  See  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  230,  noi'e. 

m  Regarding  Prahrada,  or  Prahlada,  see  Wilson's  Vishnu  Puruna,  Dr.  Hall's  ed., 
vol.  ii.,  pp.  30-68. 


156  QUOTATION  FROM  THE  SEVENTH 

234-245)  viz.  (1)  a  portion  01  hid  sprung  from  Dharma,  (2)  the  Nara- 
sinha,  or  Man-lion,  and  (3)  the  Dwarf,  incarnations,  which  are  called 
the  celestial  manifestations,  the  remaining '  seven  being  the  human 
incarnations  caused  by  S'ukra's  curse  (v.  238.  Etas  tisrah  smritds  tasya 
divydh  samlhiitayo  dvijdh  \  mdnmhdh  sapta  ydnyds  (sic.)  tu  sdpajds 
tdh  nilodhata).  These  seven  are  (4)  the  Dattatreya,-  (5)  Mandhatri, 
(6)  Parasurama,  (7)  Rama,  (8)  Vedavyasa,  (9)  Buddha,  (10)  Kalki, 
incarnations.  (Eight  instead  of  seven  are  obtained  if,  with  the  Mahratti 
expounder,  we  understand  the  beginning  of  verse  243  to  refer  to 
Krishna.)  The  Bhagavata  Purank  gives  twenty-two  incarnations 
(i.  3,  1  ff.)  viz. :  Those  in  the  forms  of  (1)  Purusha,  (2)  Varaha  or 
the  Boar,  (3)  Narada,  (4,)  ••Nara  and  Narayana,  (5)  Kapila,  (6)  Datta- 
treya, (7)  Yajna  or  Sacrifice,  (8)  Rishabha,  (9)  Prithu,  (10)  Matsya 
or  the  Fish,  (11)  Kurma'br  the  Tortoise,  (12  and  13),  Dhanvantari, 
(14)  Narasinha  or  the  Man-lion,  (15)  Yamana  or  the  Dwarf,  (16) 
Parasurama,  (17)  Vedavyasa,  (18)  Rama,  (19  and  20)  Balarama  and 
Krishna,  (21)  Buddha,  and  (22)  Kalki.  /These  last  two  are  represented 
as  future.  But  the  incarnations  of  Vishnu  are  innumerable,  like  the 
rivulets  flowing  from  an  inexhaustible  lake.  Rishis,  Manus,  gods, 
sons  of  Manus,  Prajapatis  are  all  portions  of  him  (verse  26.  Avatardh 
hy  asankheydh  Hareh  sattva-nidher  dvijdh  \  yathd  'viddsinah  kuli/uh 
sarasah  syuh  sahasrasah  \  27.  rishayo  manavo  devdh  manu-putrdh 
mahaujasah  \  Icaldh  sarve  Harer  eva  saprajdpatayas  taiha). 

SECT.  V. —  Vishnu  as  represented  in  the  Nirulcta,  Udmdyana, 
Mahdlhdrata,  and  Ptirdnas. 

From  the  passages  adduced  in  the  preceding  pages,  it  is  clear  that 
Vishnu  is  not  regarded  as  the  supreme  god  either  in  the  Rig-veda,  or 
in  the  Brahmanas.  In  these  ancient  works  he  is  considered  only  as 
one  of  the  gods,  and  not  as  superior  to  the  rest.  It  is  also  manifest 
from  the  passage  I  have  cited  from«the  Mrukta  (xii.  19)  in  p.  64  that 
neither  Yaska  himself,  nor  S'akapuni  and  Aurnavabha,  the  ancient 
interpreters  of  the  Veda,  whose  opinions  he  quotes,  assigned  to  Vishnu 
any  higher  rank  than  they  did  to  the  other  members  of  the  Indian 
Pantheon.  From  another  f text  of  the  Mrukta  (vii.  5)  which  I  have 
cited  in  p.  66,  in  appears  that  the  old  expounders  of  the  Veda  regarded 
the  deities  worshipped  in  the  Veda  as  mainly  represented  by  three  gods 


SECTION  OF  THE  NIRUKTA.  157 

of  primary  consequence,  and  that  of  ihese  Vishnu  is  not  one.  As  the 
passage  from  which  this  latter  extract  was  made  is  of  great  interest 
and  importance,  I  shall  quote  it  here  at  length : 

Nir.  7,  4. — Tad  ye  '  nddishta-devajdh  mantras  teshu  devatopaparlkshd  \ 
yad-devatah  sa  yajno  vd  yajndngam  vd  tad-devatdh  bhavanti  \  atha  anyatra 
yajndt  prdjdpatydh  iti  ydjnikdh  \  ndrdsamsdh  iti  nairuktdh  \  api  vd  sd 
kdma-devatd  sydt  prdyo-devatd  vd  \  asti  hy  dchdro  bahulam  loke  deva- 
devatyam  atithi-devatyam  pitri-devatyam  \  ydjna-daivato  mantrah  iti  \ 
api  hy  adevatdh  devatd-vat  stuyante  \  yathd  '  sva-prabhritlny  oshadhi* 
paryantdny  athdpy  ashtau  dvandvdni  \  sa  na  manyeta  dgantun  iva  arthdn 
devatdndm  pratyaksha-drisyam  etad  Ihavati  \  mahdbhdgydd  devatdydh 
ekali  dtmd  bahudhd  stuyate  \  ekasya  dtmano^nye  devdh  pratyangdni 
bhavanti  \  api  cha  sattvdndm  prakriti-bhumabhir  risJiayah  stuvanti  ity 
dhuh  |  prakriti-sdrvandmnydch  cha  itaretara-Janmdno  bhavanti  itaretara- 
prakritayah  karma-janmdnah  dtma-janmdnah  \  atmd  eva  eshdm  ratho 
bhavaty  dtmd  ''svdh  dtmd  "yudham  dtmd  ishavah  dtmd  sarvam  devasya  \ 
5.  Tisrah  eva  devatdh  iti  naifuktdh  Agnilj,  prithivl-sthdno  Vdyur  vd 
Indro  vd  'ntariksha-sthdnah  Suryo.  dyu-sthdnah  \  tdsdm  mahdbltdgydd 
ekaikasytih  api  bahuni  ndmadheydni  bhavanti  \  api  vd  karma-prithaktvdd 
yatfid  hotd  'dhvaryur  brahmd  udgdtd  ity  apy  ekasya  satah  \  api  vd 
prithag  eva  syuh  \  prithag  hi  stutayo  bhavanti  tathd  'bhidhdndni  \  yatho 
etat-ukarma-prithaktvdd"  iti  bahavo  'pi  vibhajya  karmdni  kuryuh  \  tatra 
saiiisthdnaikatvam  sambhogaikatvam  cha  upekshitavyam  \  yathd  prithirydm 
manushydh  pasavo  devdh  iti  sthdnaikatvam  \  sambhogaikatvam  cha  drisyate 
yathd  prithivydh  Parjanyena  cha  Vdyv-Aditydbhydm  cha  sambhogo  'gnind 
cha  itarasya  lokasya  \  tatra  etad  nara-rdshtram  iva  \  6.  Alha  dkdra- 
chintanam  devatdndm  \  purmha-vidhdh  syur  ity  ekam  \  chetandvad-vad 
hi  stutayo  bhavanti  tathd  'bhidhdndni  \  athtipi paurusha-vidhikair  angaih 
samstuyante  \  "  rishvd  te  Indra  sthavirasya  bdhii"  (R.  T.  vi.  47,  8); 
"yat  sanaribhndh  maghavan  kdsir  it  te"  (R.  V.  iii.  30,  5)  |  athdpi 
pauruslut-vidhikair  dravya-samyogaiht\  "d  dvdbhydm  haribhydm  Indra 
ydhi"  (R.  V.  ii.  18,  4);  " kalydmr  jdyd  suranam  grille  te"  (R.  V. 
iii.  53,  6)  athdpi paurush'a-vidhikaih  karmalhih  \  "  addhi  Indra  piba  cha 
prasthitasya"  (R.  Y.  x.  116,  2);  "dsrutkarna  srudhi  havam"  (R.  V. 

i.  10,  9)  I  7.  Apurusha-vidhdh  syur  ity  aparam  \   api  tu  yad  drisyate 

f%  _ 
' ' purusha-vidham  tat  \  yathd  'gnir  vdyur  diityah  vprithivl  chandramdh 

iti  \  yatho  etat  "chetandvad-vad  hi  stutayo  bhavanti"  ity  achetandny 


158  CONTINUATION  OF  THE  QUOTATION  FEOM  THE 

apy  evam  stuyante  yathd  'tisha-pralhritiny  oshadhi-paryantdni  \  yatho 
etat  " paurusha-vidhikair  angaih  samstuyante"  ity  achetaneshv  apy  etad 
bhavati  \  "  abhi  krandanti  haritebhir  dsabhir "  iti  grdva-stutih  \  yatho 
etat  " paurusha-vidhikair  dravya-saipyogair"  ity  etad  api  tadrisam  eva  \ 
" sukham  ratham  yuyuje  sindhur  asvinam"  iti  nadl-stutih  \  yatho  etat 
"  paurusha-vidhikaih  Icarmabhir"  ity  etad  api  tadrisam  -zva  \  "hotus  chit 
purve  havir  adyam  dsata  "  iti  grdva-stutir  eva  \  api  cha  ubhaya-vidhdh 
syuh  \  api  vd  purusha-vidhdndm  eva  satdm  karmdtmdnah  ete  syuh  \  yathd 
yajno  yajamdnasya  \  esha  cha  ukhydna-samayah  \  8.  Tisrah  eva  devatdh 
ity  uktam  purastdt  \  tdsdm  Ihakti-^dhacharyam  vydkhyasydmah  \  atha 
etany  Agni-bhaktlny  ay  am  lokah  prdtah-savanam  va&anto  gdyatrl  trivrit- 
stomo  rathantaram  sdma,  yv  cha  deva-gandh  samdmndtdh  prathame  sthdne 
'gndyl  prithivl  ild  iti  striyah  \  atha  asya  karma  vahanam  cha  havishdm 
dvahanam  cha  devatdndnt-  yach  cha  kinchid  ddrshti-vishayikam  Agni- 
karma  eva  tat  \  atha  asya.  samstavikdh  devdh  Indrah  Somo  Varunah 
Parjanyah  ritavah  \  Agnd-  Vaishnavam  havir  na  tu  rik  samstavikl 
dasataylshu  vidyate  \  atha  apy  Agnd-Pai^shnam  havir  na  tu  samstavah  \ 
tatra  etdm  vilhakti-stutim  rieham  uddharanti  (R.  V.  x.  17,  3)  9.  "Pushu 
tvd  itas  chyavayatu  pra  vidvdn  anashtapasur  Ihuvanasya  gopdh  \  sa  tvd 
etelhyah  paridadat  pitrilhyo  Agnir  devebhyah  suvidatriyebhyah"  \ 
"  Pushd  tvd  itah  prachydvayatu  vidvdn  anashtapasur  bhuvanasya  gopdh  " 
ity  esha  hi  sarveshdm  bhutdndm  gopdyitd  Adityah  \  "  sa  tvd  etebhyah 
pari  dadat  pitribhyah  "  iti  sdmsdyikas  tritlyah  pddah  \  Pushd  purastdt 
tasya  anvddesah  ity  ekam  Agnir  uparishtdt  tasya  prakirtand  ity 
aparam  \  "Agnir  devebhyah  suvidatriyebhyah"  \  suvidatram  dhanam 
bhavati  vindater  vd  ekopasargdd  daddter  vd  sydd  dvyupasargdt  \  10. 
Atha  etdni  Indra-bhaktlny  antariksha-loko  ft  mddhyandinaih  savanaih 
grishmas  trishtup  panchadasa-stomo  brihat-sdma  ye  cha  deva-gandh 
samdmndtdh  madhyame  sthdne  ydscha  striyah  \  atha  asya  karma  rasd- 
nupraddnam  Vritra-vadho  yd  cha  kd  cha  bala-kritir  Indra-karma  eva  tat  \ 
atha  asya  samstavikdh  devdh  Agm'h  Somo  Varunah  Pushd  Brihaspatir 
Brahmanaspatih  Parvatah  Kutso  Vishnur  Vdyuh  \  atha  api  Mitro 
Varunena  samstuyate  \  Pushnd  Rudrena  cha  Somah  \  Agnind  cha  Pushd  \ 
Vdtena  cha  Parjanyah  \  11.  Atha  etdny  Aditya-bhaktlny  asau  lokas 
tritlya-savanam  varshdh  jagatl  saptadasa-stomo  vairupam  sdma  ye  cha 
deva-gandh  samdmn&tdh  utiame  sthdne  ydscha  striyah  \  atha  asya  karma 
rasdddnam  ra£mibhis  cha  rasddhdranam  yach  cha  kinchit  pravalhitam 


SEVENTH  SECTION  OF  THE  NIEtJKTA.  159 

Aditya-karma  eva  tat  \  Chandramasd  Vfyufia  Samvatsarena  iti  samstavah  \ 
eteshv  era  sthcna-vyuheshv  ritu-chhandah-stoma-prishthasya  lhakti-sesham 
anukalpaylta  \  sarad-anusfitub-ekavimsa-stomo  vairdjam  sdma  itiprithivy- 
dyatandni  \  hemantah  panktis  trinapa-stomah  stikvaram  sdma  ity  antari- 
kshdyatandni  \  iisiro  'tichhandds  trayas-trimsa-stomo  raivatam  sdma 
iti  dyu-lhaktlni  \ 

4.  "  We  shall  now  inquire  who  are  the  deities  in  those  hymns  in 
which  no  deity  is  indicated.  They  are  addressed  to  the  god  to  whom 
the  sacrifice  or  part  of  a  sacrifice  [in  which  they  are  employed]  is 
offered.  The  hymns  which  are  unconnected  with  a  sacrifice  are,  accord- 
ing to  the  ritualists  (yajnikah),  addressed  to  Prajapati;  according  to 
the  etymologists  (nairuktah),  they  are  spoken  in  praise  of  men.155 
Or  in  such  cases  the  deity  may  be  an  optional  one,  or  a  class  of 
deities : 156  for  it  is  a  very  prevalent  practice  to  [classify  rites]  as 
those  which  have  a  god,  a  guest,  or  a  progenitor,  respectively,  for  their 
deity.  In  reference  to  what  has  been  said  that  hymns  are  sacrificial, 
and  addressed  to  a  god,  [it  is.  to  be  remarked  that]  beings  other  than 
gods  are  lauded  as  gods,  as  e.g.  the  objects  beginning  with  horses  and 
ending  with  herbs  (see  Mghantu,  5,  3,  and  Mr.  ix.  1-28),  and  also 
the  eight  pairs  (see  Mghantu,  5,  3,  and  Mr.  ix.  35  ff.).  But  let  him 
[the  student]  not  regard  any  matters  relating  to  the  gods  as  if  they 
were  accidental :  this  may  be  clearly  seen.  Owing  to  the  greatness 
of  the  deity,  the  one  Soul  is  lauded  in  many  ways.  The  different 
gods  are  members  of  the  one  Soul.  And  [the  learned]  say  that  the 
rishis  address  their  hymns  according  to  the  multiplicities  of  natures 
in  the  [celestial]  existences;  and  [further]  from  the  universality  of 
their  nature  [these  existences]  are  produced  from  each  other,  and 
possess  the  natures  of  each  other  (compare  Mr.  xi.  23,  quoted  above, 
p.  13);  they  are  produced  from  works;  they  are  produced  from  soul. 
It  is  soul  that  is  their  car,  soul  their  steeds,  soul  their  weapon,  soul 
their  arrows,  soul  is  a  god's  all.  r 

us  profcssor  Roth  refers  to.,Nir.  ix.  9,  where  the  word  narasamsa  is  thus  defined  : 
Yena  narahprasasyante  sa  narasamso  mantrah  \  "A  faying  in  which  men  are  eulogized 
is  a  narasamsa  hymn."  As  an  instance  of  this  kind  of  hymn  Yaska  quotes  E.  V.  i. 
126,  1. 

156  This  is  the  sense  assigned  to  prayo-devata  by  JJoth,  Illustrations  of  Nirukta,  p. 
102,  see  note  1  there :  hut  may  not  the  word  mean  a  heing  who  has  something  of  the 
character  of  a  god  ? 


160 

5.  "  There  are  three  deitiek  according  to  the  etymologists  (nairuktah), 
viz.  Agni,  whose  place  is  on  earth,  Vayu,  or  Indra,157  whose  place  is 
in  the  atmosphere,  and  Surya  (the  Sun),  \those  place  is  in  the  sky. 
These  [deities]  receive  many  designations  in   consequence  of  their 
greatness,  or  from  the  diversity  of  their  functions,  as  [the  appellations 
of]  hotri,  adhvaryu,  brahman,  and  udgatri,  are  appliqd  to  one  and  the 
same  person.     Or  the  gods  in  question  may  all  be  distinct,  for  the 
praises  addressed  to  them,  and  also  their  •  appellations,   are  distinct. 
As  [regards  the  view  that]  this  [diversity  of  appellation]  arises  from 
difference  of  function  [and  not  from  distinctness  of  personality,  it 
may  be  objected  that]  a  plurality  of  individuals  also  may  each  fulfil 
their  separate  allotted  functions.     In  this  latter  case,  a  community  of 
locality,  and  of  possession,  must  be   remarked.      Thus  men,  beasts, 
and  gods,  occupy  the  eartk ;  here  is  community  of  place.     Community 
of  possession,  too,  is  seen  in  such  instances  as  that,  of  the  joint  oc- 
cupation of  the  earth  both  by  Parjanya,   and  by  Vayu,  and  Aditya, 
and  of  the  rest  of  the  world  by  [Vayu,  Aditya,  and]  Agni.     Here 
the  case  is  like  that  of  a  kingdom  and  its  inhabitants  (i.e.  the  one 
realm  is  occupied  by  different  classes  of  persons). 

6.  "  We  have  now  to  consider  the  forms  of  the  gods.     One  [mode  of 
representation  in  the  hymns  makes]  them  resemble  men  :  for  they  are 
praised  and  addressed  as  intelligent  beings.     They  are  also  celebrated 
with  members  such  as  those  of  men.     Thus  E.  V.  vi.  47,  8  :  '  Huge, 
0  Indra,  are  the  arms  of  thee  who   art   strong';  iii.  30,  5,  'when 
thou  didst  grasp  the  two  worlds,    they  were   but   as  a  handful  to 
thee.'    They  are  also  [celebrated]  with  the  accompaniment  of  material 
objects  such  as  those  belonging  to  men.     Thus  it  is  said,  E.  V.  ii. 
18,  4,  'Come,  Indra,  with   thy  two  tawny   steeds';  iii.  53,  6,   'A 
handsome  wife  and  pleasure  are  in  thy  bouse.'     And  further,  they 
are  celebrated  with  functions  of  a  similar  character  to  the  human. 
Thus  E.  V.  x.  116,   2,   'Eat,  Of  Indra,  and  drink  from  the  bowl;' 
E.  V.  i.  10,  9,  '  Thou  whose  ears  hear  us,  listen  to  our  invocation.' 

7.  "  Another  [mode  of  representation  makes  them]  unlike  men .     But 
further,  that  which  is  seen  [of  them]  is  unlike  what  is  human,  as  Fire, 

Air,  Sun,  Earth,  Moon.     As  [regards  the  assertion]  that  '  they  are 
r 

167  Compare  Taitt.  Sanh.,  vi."6,  8,  3  :  Indra-  Vayu  hi  sayujau  \  "  For  Indra  and 
Vayu  are  closely  united. 


THE  SEVENTH  ACTION  OF  THE  NIRUKTA.  161 

praised  as  intelligent  beings,' — it  i$  also  true  that  senseless  things  are 
in  like  manner  praised,  as  the  objects  beginning  with  dice  and  ending 
with  herbs  (Nigh.  5,  3  ;'Nir.  3,  7  ff.).  Again,  as  [regards  the  remark] 
that  the  gods  are  'celebrated  witji  members  such  as  those  of  men,' — 
the  same  thing  is  done  in  the  case  of  senseless  objects,  as  stones  are 
celebrated  in  the  words,  '  They  cry  with  their  ruddy  mouths '  (R.  V.  x. 
94,  2).  Further,  the  same  is  the  case  as  [regards  the  remark]  that  the 
gods  are  [celebrated]  'with  the  accompaniment  of  material  objects  such 
as  those  possessed  by  men  ; '  for  a  river  is  praised  in  the  words,  '  The 
Sindhu  has  yoked  his  beautiful  car  drawn  by  steeds'  (R.  V.  x.  75,  9). 
And  the  same  thing  applies  to  the  remark  that  the  gods  are  described 
with  '  functions  similar  to- those  of  men ; '  'for  stones  are  lauded  in  the 
words,  '  Even  before  the  priests  they  have  eaten  food  of  melted  butter ' 
(R.  Y.  x.  94,  2).  Or  the  gods  may  be  described  under  both  forms  (either 
as  having,  or  as  not  having,  a  human  form).  Or,  again,  when  they  are 
described  as  similar  to  men,  this  may  be  merely  in  their  character 
of  actors  in  a  particular  function,  as  sacrifice  is  only  the  [temporary] 
act  of  the  man  who  offers  it.  This  is  the  condition  of  all  narrations.158 
8.  "It  has  been  declared  above  (par.  5)  that  there  are  three  deities. 
We  shall  now  declare  the  various  objects  which  are  associated  with 
their  provinces.  Now  these  which  follow  are  connected  with  Agni's 
domain :  viz.  this  world,  the  morning  oblation,  spring,  the  gayatrl 
metre,  the  trivrit  stoma,  the  rathantara  sama,  the  classes  of  gods  who 
in  the  Nighantu  are  enumerated  in  the  first  sphere,  with  the  goddesses 
Agnayl,  Prithivi,  and  Ila,  Then  Agni's  function  is  to  carry  away  the 
oblations,  and  to  bring  the  gods :  and  whatever  has  reference  to  things 
visible  is  the  work  of  Agni.  Then  the  deities  who  are  lauded 
along  with  him  are  Indra,  Soma,  Varuna,  Parjanya,  and  the  seasons. 
There  is  an  oblation  made  to  Agni  and  Vishnu  in  common ;  but  in  the 
ten  books  [of  the  R.  V.]  there  is  no  Rich  which  praises  these  two  gods 

together.     There  is  also  an  oblation  made  to  Agni  and  Pushan  in 

i 

158  The  commentator  Durga  (as  I  learn  from  Prof.  Eoth's  note,  Illust.  of  Nir. 
p.  104)  refers  this  observation  to  the  Mahabharata,  end  adduces,  as  illustrations  of 
the  remark  in  the  text,  the  appearances  of  the  Earth  in  the  form  of  a  woman  to  request 
a  Brahman  to  relieve  her  of  her  load,  and  of  Agni  in  the  form  of  a  Brahman  to  ask 
aid  from  Vasudeva  and  Arjuna  respecting  the  Khundava  wood,  and  in  the  form  of  a 
man,  and  of  fire,  to  burn  the  wood  in  question.  See  Williams's  Indian  Epic  Poetry, 
p.  101  ;  and  the  Vanaparvan,  verses  8079  ff. 

VOL.    IV.  •»  '11 


162    PASSAGE  TRANSLATED  FROM  THE  NIRUKTA  CONTINUED. 

common,  but  no  conjoint  laudation.  Here  the  following  verse  con- 
taining separate  praise  [of  these  two  gods]  is  quoted,  viz.  R.  V.  x. 
17,  3  :  9.  'May  Pushan,  the  wise,  the  preserver  of  the  world,  he  who 
loses  none  of  his  cattle,  convey  thee  away  hence :  may  he  deliver  thee 
to  these  fathers;  and  may  Agni  [entrust  thee]  to  the  gracious  gods.' 
The  words,  '  May  Pushan,  the  wise,  etc.,'  refer  to  the  Sun,  who  is  the 
protector  of  all  creatures.  The  sense  of  the  third  quarter  of  the  verse 
beginning,  '  May  he  deliver  thee,  etc.,'  is  dubious :  on  the  one  hand  it 
may  be  a  repetition  of  the  reference  to  Pushan,  who  had  been  named 
before  ; 159  or,  on  the  other  hand,  it  may  be  a  celebration  of  Agni,  who 
is  mentioned  afterwards.  Suvidatra  (from  which  suvidatriyebhyah  in 
the  fourth  clause,  "May  Agni,"  etc.,  comes)  means  'wealth,'  and  is 
either  derived  from  vid,  'to  find,'  with  one  preposition  (sw),  or  from 
dd,  '  to  give,'  with  two  prepositions  (su  and  o). 

10.  "The  following  are  the  objects  connected  with  Indra's  domain  : 
viz.  the  atmosphere,  the  midday  oblation,  summer,  the  trishtubh  metre, 
the  panchadasa  stoma,  the  brihat  sama,  the  classes  of  gods  and  the 
females  who  are  enumerated  in  the  second  sphere.     Indra's  function  is 
to  bestow  moisture,  to  slay  Vritra :  and  all  exertions  of  force  are  the 
work  of  Indra.     The  deities  lauded  along  with  him  are  Agni,  Soma, 
Varuna,  Pushan,  Brihaspati,  Brahmanaspati,  Parvata,  Kutsa,  Vishnu, 
and  Vayu.     Further,  Mitra  is  lauded  along  with  Varuna,  Soma  with 
Pushan  and  Rudra,  Pushan  with  Agni,  and  Parjanya  with  Vata. 

11.  "The  following  are  the  objects  connected  with  Aditya' s  (the 
Sun's)  domain :  heaven,  the  third  oblation,  the  rainy  season,  the  jagati 
metre,  the  saptadasa  stoma,  the  vairupa  sama,  the  classes  of  gods  and 
the  females  who  are  enumerated  in  the  highest  sphere.    The  function  of 
Aditya  is  to  draw  up  moisture,  and  to  retain  it  by  his  rays  :  and  what- 
ever is  mysterious  is  the  work  of  Aditya.     He  is  praised  along  with 
the  Moon,  the  Air  (Vayu),  and  the  Year. 

"  [The  student]  is  to  class  the  remaining  seasons,  metres,  stomas, 
and  prishthas  (particular  sama  formulas)  under  [one  or  other  of]  the 
[three]  spheres  above  mentioned.  Autumn,  "the  anushtubh  metre, 
the  ekavinsa  stoma,  and  the  vairaja  sama,  belong  to  the  sphere  of  earth. 
The  early  winter,  the  pankti  metre,  the  trinava  stoma,  and  the  sakvara 
sama,  belong  to  the  utmospheric  sphere.  The  later  winter,  the  ati- 
159  I  have  translated  the  clause  as  referring  to  Pushan. 


QUOTATIONS  FEOM  THE  BRIHADDEVATA.  163 

> 

chhandas  metre,  the  trayastrinsa  %toma,  and  the  raivata  sama,  are 

connected  with  the  celestial  sphere."160 

It  will  be  observed  that  in  the  preceding  classification  of  the  gods, 
the  principal  places  are  assigned  to  Agni,  Vayu,  or  Indra,  and  Suryar 
who  appear  therefore  to  have  been  regarded  in  the  time  of  Yaska  as 
the  triad  of  deities  in  whom  the  supreme  spirit  was  especially  revealed. 
Vishnu  is  only  alluded  to  as  one  of  the  divinities  who  were  worshipped 
conjointly  with  Indra;  and  Rudra  is  only  mentioned  as  worshipped 
along  with  Soma.  If  we  may  judge  from  his  silence  regarding  it,  the 
conjunction  of  Brahma,  Vishnu  and  Kudra  as  the  triple  manifestation 
of  the  deity  (trimurti)  would  appear  to  have  been  unknown  to  Yaska. 

It  is  true  that  his  object  in  the  passage  I  have  cited,  as  well  as  in 
other  parts  of  his  work,  is  to  classify  the  Vedic  deities ;  and  it  may  be 
urged  that  the  Puranic  mythology  (of  which  the  trinftirti  of  Brahma, 
Vishnu  and  S'iva  is  a  part)  might  have  grown  up  along  with  the 
Vedic.  It  may,  however,  be  objected  to  this  view,  that  if  Yaska  had 
been  cognizant  of  any  other»than  the  Vedic  mythology  (at  least  if  he 
had  attached  any  authority  to  any  other),  he  would  not  have  failed  to- 
make  some  reference  to  the  latter,  and  would  have  endeavoured  to  blend 
and  reconcile  it  with  the  former.  As  we  find  no  attempt  of  this  kind 
in  his  work,  we  may  perhaps  conclude,  either  that  the  Puranic 
mythology  had  no  existence  in  his  day,  or  that  he  regarded  it  as 
undeserving  of  any  attention. 

The  following  passages  from  the  Brihaddevata,  in  which  the  views 
of  Yaska  are  repeated,  are  derived  from  "Weber's  Ihd.  Stud.  i.  113  f. : 

Brihaddevata,  i.  13. — JBhavad-bhuta  [sya  bha]  vyasyajangama-sthdvar- 
asya  cha  \  asyaike  suryvm  evaikam  prabhavam  pralayam  viduh  \  asatas 
cha  satas  chaiva  yonir  esha  Prajapatih  \  yad  alcsharam  cha  vdchyam  (?)  cha 
yathaiva  Brahma  sdsvatam  \  Icritvaisha  hi  tridhd  "tmdnam  eshu  lokeshu 
tishthati  \  Ibid.  i.  14  ...  tisrah  eveha  devatdh  \  etdsdm  eva  mdhdtmydd 
ndmdnyatvam  vidhiyate  \  tach  cha  sthfina-vilhdgena  tatra  tatreha  drisyate  \ 
i.  13 :  "  Some  consider  Surya  (the  Sun)  to  be  the  only  cause  of  the  produc- 
tion and  destruction  of  this  [universe],  present,, past,  and  future,  moving 
and  stationary.  And  this  lord  of  creatures  (Prajapati)  is  the  source  of 

non-entity  and  entity,  which  is  undecaying  and  describable  (?)  like 

>  <> 

160  The  above  passage  is  translated  by  Prof.  Roth  in  his  Illustrations  of  the  Niruktar 
pp.  101  ff. 


164          EARLIER  CONCEPTION  OF  VISHNU'S  CHARACTER. 

the  eternal  Brahma.  He,  having1  made  himself  threefold,  abides  in 
these  worlds,  i.  14 :  .  .  .  There  are  but  three  deities ;  and  from  their 
greatness,  a  variety  of  names  is  assigned  [to  each  of  them].  This  is 
seen  in  different  instances  according  to  the  distinction  of  places." 

From  the  passage  cited  above  (p.  30  f.)  from  Manu,  it  appears  that 
the  word  Narayana  is  there  applied  to  Brahma,  and  that  no  mention 
whatever  is  made  of  Vishnu,  as  concerned  in  the  creation.  In  fact  Vishnu 
is  only  once  mentioned 161  by  Manu,  viz.  in  the  following  verse  xii.  121 : 

'Manasmdiim  disah-srotre  Icrdnte  Vishnum  lale  Haram  \  vdchy  Agnim 
Mitram  utsarge  prajane  cJia  Prajdpatim  \  "  [He  may  contemplate]  in 
his  mind  the  Moon  (Indu),  in  his  hearing  the  regions,  in  his  stepping 
Vishnu,  in  his  strength  Hara,  in  his  voice  Agni,  in  excretion  Mitra, 
and  in  procreation  Prajapati."  Vishnu  is  not  spoken  of  here  as  in  any 
way  superior  to  the  other  gods  with  whom  he  is  associated. 

In  the  text  quoted  above  (p.  33)  from  the  older  recension  of  the 
Ramayana  too,  it  is  Brahma  who  is  spoken  of  not  only  as  the  creator, 
but  also  as  the  god  who  raised  up  the  earth  from  the  bottom  of  the 
ocean. 

Again,  those  texts  of  the  Mahabharata  and  Puranas  (see  above,  pp.  1 18 
ff.)  where  Vishnu  is  described  as  one  of  the  twelve  Adityas,  confirm  the 
conclusion  that  he  must  have  been  originally  looked  upon  as  a  deity  of 
no  more  elevated  rank  than  the  other  sons  of  Aditi ;  and  the  circum- 
stance that  he  is  in  some  of  those  passages  distinguished  from  the  rest 
of  the  gods  by  epithets  expressive  of  some  higher  characteristics  is  easily 
explicable,  as  I  have  already  remarked,  by  the  supposition  that  those 
passages  have  been  composed  or  modified  at  a  period  when  his  supe- 
riority had  come  to  be  recognized. 

In  some  of  the  earlier  passages  of  the  Ramayana  also,  where  Vishnu 
is  introduced,  though  he  is  treated  as  a  deity  of  higher  rank  than  Indra 
and  others  (with  whom  he  had  been  originally,  at  most,  on  a  footing  of 
equality),  yet  he  is  not  designated-by  the  same  sort  of  epithets  which 
'  are  applied  to  him  in  the  Vishnu  and  Bhagavata  Puranas,  and  in  some 
parts  of  the  Mahabharata,  and  other  portions  of  the  Ramayana  itself 
(unless  we  suppose  these  to  be  later  interpolations),  or  identified  with 
the  supreme  deity,  as  in  tfyese  first-named  works.  In  proof  of  this  I 
adduce  the  following 'passage  from  the  Ramayana,  i.  14,  1  ff.  (Schlegel's 

161  Lassen,  Ind.  Ant.,  1st  ed.,  i.  777,  note ;  or  2nd  ed.,  p.  918. 


QUOTATION  FROM  THE  RAMAYANA  REGARDING  VISHNU.     165 

edition  ;=i.  15,  1  ff.,  Bombay  edition,  and  i.  14,  1  ff.  of  Gorresio's 
edition)  : 

Kamayana,  i.  14,  1  tf. — Medhdvl  tu  tato  dhydtvd  sa  kinchid  idam 
uttaram  \  labdha-sanjnas 162  tatas  tarn  tu  veda-jno  nripam  dbravlt  \  2  \ 
ishtim  te  'nydm  163  karishydmi  putriyam  putra-kdrandt  \  atharvasirasi 
proktair  mantrftih  siddhdm  vidhdnatah  \  3  |  mtatah  prachakrame  Itartum 
ishtim  kdma-samriddhaye  \  tasya  rdjno  hitdnveshl  Vibhdndaka-suto 
vasl  |  4  |  tatra  devdh  sa-gandharvdh  Siddhdscha  munibhih  saha  \  bhdga- 
pratigrahdrtham  vai  purvam  eva  samdgatdh  \  5  \  Brahmd  suresvarnh 
Sthtinus  tathd  Ndrdyanah  prabhuh  \  Indras  cha  bhagavdn  sdkshdd 
3Tanid-gana-vritas  tathd  \  6  |  asvamedhe  mahdyajne  rdjnas  tasya  mahdt- 
manah  \  tatra  bhdgdrthino  devdn  dgatdn  so  ^hyaydchata  \  7  |  ayam  rdjd 
Dasarathah  putrdrthl  taptavdms  tapah  \  ishtavdn  asvamedhena  bhavatah 
sraddhayd  'nvitah  \  8  |  ishtim  cha  putra-htimo  'nydm  punah  kartttm 
samudyatah  \  tad  asya  putra-hdmasya  prasddam  kartum  arhatha  \  9  | 
alhiydche  cha  vah  sarvdn  asydrthe  'ham  Itritdnjalih  \  bhaveyur  asya 
chatvdrah  putrds  trailokya-visrutdh  \  10  |  te  tathety  abruvan  devdh 
rishi-putram  kritdnjalim  \  mdnariiyo  'si  no  vipra  rdjd  chaiva  viseshatah  \ 
11  !  prdpsyate  paramam  kdmam  etayeshtyd  narddhipah  \  ity  uktvd 

162  Labdha-sanjnah  samadhy-utthitah  \  Comm.  in  Bombay  ed. 

16a  Bombay  ed.  reads  te  'ham  for  te  'nyam. 

164  The  Bomb.  ed.  here  reads  :  3.  Tatah  prakramad  ishtim  tarn  putriyam  putra- 
Karanat  \  juhav  agnau  cha  tejasvl  mantra-drishtena  karmana  \  4  |  tato  devah  sa- 
gandharvah  siddhas  cha  paramarshayah  \  bhava-  [qu.  bhaga~\  pratigrahartham  vai 
samavetah  yathavidhi  \  5  |  tah  sametya  yathanyayam  tasmin  sadasi  devatah  \  abruvan 
loka-kartaram  Brahmanam  vachanam  tat  ah  \  6  |  Bhagavams  tvat-prasadena  Havana 
nama  rnkshasah  \  sarvan  no  badhate  vlryat  sasitum  tarn  na  saknumah  \  " He  tben  began 
that  sacrifice  for  the  sake  of  obtaining  a  son ;  and  the  glorious  (rishi)  cast  an  oblation 
into  the  fire,  accompanied  \j  the  prescribed  recitation  of  texts.  4.  Then  the  gods, 
Gandharvas,  Siddhas,  and  great  Rishis  were  gathered  together  in  due  form  to  receive 
their  portion.  5.  Having  duly  assembled  in  that  abode,  the  deities  spake  thus  to 
Brahma,  the  creator  of  the  world :  6.  '  Lord,  owing  to  thy  favour  a  Rakshasa  named 
Ravana  distresses  us  all  by  his  power,  and  we  cannot  subdue  him.'  "  "What  follows 
corresponds  in  the  main  with  the  readings^of  Schlegel's  text. 

This  text,  it  will  be  noticed,  differs  in  several  points  from  Schlegel's  [and  from 
Gorresio's]  in  (a)  not  stating  the  gods  to  have  been  already  present  at  the  preceding  sacri- 
fice of  the  as'vamedha ;  (b)  in  not  naming  Brahma,  Sthanu  (Mahadeva),  and  Narayuna 
(Vishnu)  as  being  of  the  number ;  or  (c)  as  having  been  supplicated  by  the  rishi  on 
behalf  of  king  Das'aratha ;  and  (d)  in  proceeding  at  once  to  represent  the  gods  as  in- 
voking Brahma's  aid,  as  the  other  two  texts  do  fuiiher  on.  The  Bombay  text  may  be 
the  most  original,  and  the  verses  there  omitted  ma^  be  latSr  additions,  as  they  do  not 
fit  in  very  well  into  the  sequel.  Compare  note  166  below.  This,  however,  would  not 
prove  that  the  whole  section  was  not  a  prior  interpolation.  See  further  on. 


166  PASSAGE  FROM  THE  RAMAYANA 

'ntarhitdh  devds  tatah  S'akra-purogtmdh  \  12  |  tdh  sametya  yathd nydyam 
tasmin  sadasi  devatdh  \  abruvan  loka-kartdram  Brahmdnam  vachanam 
tatah  |  13  |  tvat-pradishta-varo  Brahman  Rdvano  ndma  rdkshasah  \ 
sarvdn  no  bddhate  darpdd  maharshlnis  oka  tapo-ratdn  \  14  |  tvayd  hy  asya 
varo  dattah  prltena  bhagavanpurd  \  deva-ddnava-yakshdndm  abadhyo  'stti 
kdmatah  \  1 5  |  mdnayantascha  te  vdkyam  sarvam  asya  'sahdmahe  \  sa 
bddhayati  lokdms  trln  vihimsan  rdkshasesvarah  |  ....  19.  Tad  mahad 
no  bhayam  tasmdd  rdkshasdd  ghora-darsandt  \  badhdrtham  tasya  bhagavann 
upayam  kartum  arhasi  \  evam  uktah  suraih  sarvais  chintayitvd  tato 
'bravlt  |  hantdyam  vihitas  tasya  ladhopdyo  durdtmanah  \  tena  "  gandh- 
arva-yakshdndm  deva-ddnava-raksJiasdm  \  aladhyah  sydm"  iti  proktaiti 
tathety  uktam  cha  tad  mayd  \  avajndya  tu  tad  raksho  manushdn  ndnva- 
klrtayat  \  tasmdt  sa  mdnushdd  badhyo  mrityur  ndnyo  'sya  vidyate  \  etach 
chhrutvdpriyamtvdkyam  Brahmand  samuddhritam  \  devdh  S'akra-purogds 
te  harshitdh  sarvato  'bhavan  \  etasminn  antare  Fishnur  upaydto  mahd- 
dyutih  |  sankha-chakra-gadd-pdnih  plta-vdsdh  jagat-patih  \  Vainateyam 
samdruhya  bhdskaras  toyadam  yathd  \  tapte-hataka-keyuro  vandyamdnah 
surottamaih  \-  tarn  abruvan  surdh  sarve  samabhishtutya  sannatdh  \ 
drtdndm  asi  lokdndm  drti-hd  Madhusudana  \  ydchdmahe  'tas  tvtim 
drtdh  saranam  no  bhavdchyuta  \  bruta  kirn  karavdmti  Vishnus  tan 
abravid  vachah  \  iti  tasya  vachah  srutvd  punar  uchur  idam  surdh  \  rdjd 
Dasaratho  ndma  taptavdn  sumahat  tapah  \  ishtavdms  chdsvamedhena 
prajd-kdmah  sa  chdprajdh  \  asman-niyogdt  tvam  Vishno  tasya putratv am 
dpnuhi  |  tasya  bhdrydsu  tisrishu  Hrl-S'rl-Klrty-upamdsu  cha  \  Vishno 
putratvam  dgachha  kritvd  "tmdnam  chaturvidham  \  tatra  tvam  mdnusho 
bhutvd  pravriddham  lokakantakam  \  abadhyam  daivatair  Vishno  samare 

jahi  Rdvanam  \ 34.  Tvam  gatih  paramo,  deva  sarveshdm  nah 

parantapa  I  badhdya  devasatrundm  nrindm  lake  manah  kuru  \  sa  niyuktas 
tathd  devaih  sdkshdd  Ndrdyanah  prabhuh  \  tan  uvdcha  ityddi  \ 

"  Then  that  sage,  skilled  in  the  Veda,  having  meditated  for  a  little 
on  this  answer,  having  regained  his  consciousness  [which  had  been 
suspended  during  his  state  of  meditation],  said  to  the  king :  '  I  shall 
perform  for  thee  another  sacrifice,  celebrated  according  to  rule  with 
the  texts  enjoined  in  the  Atharva-siras,  to  obtain  for  thee  a  son.'  The 
self-subdued  son  of  Vibhapdaka,  desiring  the  king's  welfare,  then 
began  to  perform  the'"  sacrifice  for  the  attainment  of  his  desire.  The 
gods,  with  the  Gandharvas,  Siddhas,  and  Munis,  had  previously  come 


ABOUT  VISHNU,  WITH  REMARKS.  167 

thither  to  receive  their  portions  [<)f  the  sacrifice],  both  Brahma,  lord 
of  the  deities,  Sthanu  (Mahadeva),  the  lord  Narayana 165  (Vishnu),  and 
the  divine  Indra  in  visible  presence,  surrounded  by  the  host  of  Maruts. 
He  (Rishyasringa  thus)  supplicated  the  gods  who  had  come,  desiring 
their  shares,  to  the  great  asvamedha  sacrifice  [described  in  the  pre- 
ceding section]  of  that  high-souled  king :  '  This  King  Dasaratha, 
desiring  a  son,  has  performed  austerity,  and  inspired  with  faith,  has 
worshipped  you  with  an  asvamedha.  Longing  for  a  son,  he  is  also 
prepared  to  celebrate  another  sacrifice.  Ye  ought,  therefore,  to  show 
favour  to  him,  who  is  anxious  for  a  son;  and  with  joined  hands,  I 
entreat  you  all  on  his  behalf.  Let  him  have  four  sons,  renowned  in 
the  three  worlds.'  The  gods  said  to  tho  rishi's  son  [standing]  with 
joined  hands,  '  So  be  it.  Thou,  Brahman,  art  deserving  of  honour 
from  us,  and  so  especially  is  the  king.  The  lord  of  men  shall  obtain 
the  highest  object  of  his  desire  by  means  of  this  sacrifice.'  Having 
thus  spoken,  the  gods,  headed  by  S'akra  (Indra),  then  disappeared. 

"Having  duly  assembled, in  that  abode,166  these  gods  then  addressed 
a  word  to  Brahma,  the  creator  of  the  world :  '  A  Rakshasa  named 
Havana,  having  obtained  a  boon  from  thee,  0  Brahma,  in  his  pride 
harasses  us  all,  and  the  great  rishis  devoted  to  austerity.  For,  0  lord, 
a  boon  was  formerly  granted  to  him  freely  by  thee  when  well-pleased, 
viz.  '  Thou  shalt  be  indestructible  by  gods,  Danavas  or  Yakshas.' 
Obedient  to  thy  words,  we  endure  everything  at  his  hands.  This  lord 
of  the  Rakshasas  vexes  the  three  worlds  by  his  acts  of  cruelty  .  .  .  19. 
We  are  therefore  in  great  fear  of  this  Rakshasa  of  horrible  aspect. 

164  Here  it  will  be  observed  that  Vishnu,  like  the  other  gods,  comes  for  his  share. 

166  This  verse  does  not 'combine  well  with  what  precedes.  See  the  last  note  but 
one  (164).  Why  should  the  gods  disappear  in  order  to  reassemble,  so  far  as  appears, 
in  the  same  place  (taamin  sadasf)  ?  See  the  text  of  the  Bombay  ed.,  as  quoted  in 
note  164,  verses  4  and  5.  Gorresio's  edition  connects  the  disappearance  and  reappear- 
ance of  the  gods  thus,  i.  14,  lib  ff. :  ity  uktva  'ntarhitah  devas  tatah  S'akra-puroga- 
mah  |  12  |  tarn  drishtva  vidhwad  dtksh#m  kriyamanam  mahatshina  |  upetya  loka- 
kartaram  Prajapatim  idam  vachah  \  13  |  uchuhpranjalayobhutvaSrahmanamvaradan! 
tatha  |  lib:  "Having  thus  spoken,  the  gods,  headed  by  S'akra,  vanished  thence. 
12.  Beholding  that  initiatory  ceremony  being  duly  performed  by  the  great  rishi,  they 
approached  with  joined  hands  the  lord  of  creatures,  the  boon-bestowing  Brahma,  and 
spoke  as  follows,"  etc.  It  may  also  be  noticed  that  Narayana  (Vishnu)  is  mentioned 
both  in  Schlegel's  ed.  and  in  Gorresio's  (v.  4)  atP  having  been  one  of  the  gods  who 
were  present.  If  the  gods  who  reappeared  were 'the  same  as  those  who  disappeared, 
Avhy  was  not  he  among  them  ?  But  he  is  said  to  have  arrived  afterwards. 


168  PASSAGE  FROM  THE  RAMAYANA  TRANSLATED. 

Thou,  lord,  oughtest  to  imagine  some  device  for  his  slaughter.'  Being 
thus  addressed  by  all  the  deities,  [Brahma],  after  reflection,  thus  spoke 
to  them  :  '  0,  this  device  has  been  imagined  [by  me]  for  the  slaughter 
of  that  malignant  being.  '  Let  me  }>e  indestructible  by  Gandharvas, 
Yakshas,  gods,  Danavas  and  Rakshasas ;  '  such  was  his  request,  to 
which  I  replied,  '  Be  it  so.'  But  despising  men,  the  Rakshasa  made 
no  mention  of  them.  He  must  therefore  be  slain  by  a  man :  no  other 
death  is  possible  for  him.'  Having  heard  this  acceptable  word  spoken 
byeBrahma,  the  gods,  headed  by  S'akra,  were  altogether  delighted.  In 
the  mean  time  the  glorious  Yishnu  arrived,  bearing  in  his  hand  the 
shell,  discus,  and  club,  in  yellow  garments,  lord  of  the  world,  mounted 
on  Garuda,  like  the  Sun  on  a  cloud,  with  an  armlet  of  refined  gold, 
adored  by  the  chief  of  the  deities.  After  lauding  him  with  prostra- 
tions, all  the  gods  said :  '  Thou,  Madhusudana,  art  he  who  removes 
the  affliction  of  the  afllicted  worlds.  "Wherefore  we,  distressed,  beseech 
thee  be  our  refuge,  0  Achyuta  (Unfailing).'  Yishnu  said  to  them, 
'  Tell  me  what  I  shall  do.'  Hearing  this  suswer  of  his,  the  gods  again 
said :  '  A  king  named  Dasaratha  has  performed  great  austerity,  and 
celebrated  an  asvamedha  sacrifice,  desirous  of  offspring,  for  he  is  child- 
less. Do  thou,  Yishnu,  according  to  our  appointment,  take  upon  thee 
his  sonship.  Making  thyself  fourfold,  do  thou  become  the  offspring  of 
his  three  wives  who  resemble  Hri,  S'rl,  and  Kirti  (Modesty,  Prosperity, 
and  Renown).  Having  then  become  man,  do  thou  slay  in  battle 
Ravana,  the  powerful  enemy  of  the  worlds,  who  is  indestructible  by 
the  gods.  .  .  .  34.  Thou,  god,  vexer  of  thy  foes,  art  the  highest  refuge 
of  us  all ;  resolve  to  destroy  in  the  world  of  men  the  enemies  of  the 
deities.'  The  manifested  lord  Narayana,  being  |hus  appointed  by  the 
gods,"  replies  by  asking  for  further  explanations  in  regard  to  the  occasion 
which  demanded  his  intervention.  This  explanation  the  gods  give  and 
say,  that  he  alone  of  all  the  celestials  can  kill  the  wicked  one  (tvatto 
hi  ndnyas  tarn  papam  sakto  hantum  djvaukasam).  Yishnu,  then,  "the 
/lord  of  the  gods"  (devesa),  "the  most  excellent  of  the  immortals" 
(tridasa-pungava),  "adored  by  all  the  worlds"  (sarva-loka-namaskrita\ 
reassures  the  deities,  promises  to  slay  Ravana,  and  to  reign  on  earth 
for  eleven  thousand  years. 

I  have  said  that  the  representation  given  of  Yishnu  in  the  preceding 
passage  is  of  a  different  character  from  that  which  we  find  in  writings 


QUOTATIONS  FEOM  LASSEtf,  WILSON,  AND  GOLDSTUCKER.     169 

of  a  later  age.  But  it  is  not  certai?  that  any  portion  of  this  passage 
formed  part  of  the  Kamayana,  as  it  originally  existed.  I  extract  the 
following  remarks  from  Eassen's  "Indian  Antiquities,"  (vol.  i.  p.  488, 
1st  edition;  i.  586,  2nd  edition),  \n  regard  to  the  interpolations  which 
he  supposes  to  have  been  made  in  the  Ramayana  and  Mahabharata : 

"It  is  true  that  in  the  Epic  poems  Kama  and  Krishna  appear  as  in- 
carnations of  Vishnu,  but  they  at  the  same  time  come  before  us  as 
human  heroes,  and  these  'two  characters  (the 'divine  and  the  human) 
are  so  far  from  being  inseparably  blended  together,  that  both  of  these 
heroes  are  for  the  most  part  exhibited  in  no  other  light  than  other 
highly  gifted  men, — acting  according  to  human  motives  and  taking  no 
advantage  of  their  divine  superiority.  It  is  only  in  certain  sections 
which  have  been  added  for  the  purpose  of  enforcing  their  divine 
character  that  they  take  the  character  of  Vishnu.  It  is  impossible  to 
read  either  of  these  two  poems  with  attention,  without  being  reminded 
of  the  later  interpolation  of  such  sections  as  ascribe  a  divine  character 
to  the  heroes,  and  of  the  unskilful  manner  in  which  these  passages  are 
often  introduced,  and  without  observing  how  loosely  they  are  con- 
nected with  the  rest  of  the  narrative,  and  how  unnecessary  they  are 
for  its  progress."  167 

In  p.  489  (1st  edition,  p.  587  2nd  edition)  note,  he  remarks  more 

167  In  the  Preface  to  his  Vishnu  Purana,  p.  ix.,  4to.  ed.(=p.  xv.  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.), 
Professor  "Wilson  had  previously  made  some  observations  of  the  same  tenor  :  "  But 
the  ascription  to  individual  and  personal  deities  of  the  attributes  of  the  one  universal 
and  spiritual  Supreme  Being,  is  an  indication  of  a  later  date  than  the  Vedas  certainly, 
and  apparently  also  than  the  Eamayana,  where  Rama,  although  an  incarnation  of 
Vishnu,  commonly  appears  in  his  human  character  alone.  There  is  something  of  the 
kind  in  the  Mahabharata  in  respect  to  Krishna,  especially  in  the  philosophical  episode 
known  as  the  Bhagavad  Gita.  In  other  places  the  divine  nature  of  Krishna  is  less 
decidedly  affirmed  ;  in  some  it  is  disputed  or  denied ;  and  in  most  of  the  situations  in 
which  he  is  exhibited  in  action,  it  is  as  a  prince  and  warrior,  not  as  a  divinity.  He 
exercises  no  superhuman  faculties  in  the  defence  of  himself,  or  his  friends,  or  in  the 
defeat  and  destruction  of  his  foes.  The  Mahabharata,  however,  is  evidently  a  work 
of  various  periods,  and  requires  to  be  read  throughout  carefully  and  critically  before  its 
weight  as  an  authority  can  be  accurately  appreciated."  Professor  Goldstiicker,  too, 
observes  in  the  Preface  to  his  Manava  Kalpa  Sutra,  p,  xxxi. :  "  It  is  of  course  im- 
possible for  me  to  treat  here,  as  it  were  incidentally,  not  merely  of  the  question  con- 
cerning the  age  of  the  Mahabharata,  but  the  relative  ages  of  the  various  portions  of  this 
work,  since  it  must  be  evident  to  every  one  who  ha^  read  it,  that  it  is,  in  its  present 
shape,  a  collection  of  literary  products  belonging  to  widely  distant  periods  of  Hindu 
literature." 


170     FURTHER  QUOTATIONS  FROM  THE  RAMAYAXA 

particularly:  "As  regards  the  Rfimayana,  Mr.  von  Schlegel  has  often 
observed  to  me  that  the  chapters  in  which  Rama  is  conceived  of  as  an 
incarnation  of  Vishnu,  might  be  entirely  omitted  without  injuring  the 
connexion  of  the  story.  In  fact,  at,the  point  where  the  incarnation  of 
Vishnu  in  the  four  sons  of  Dasaratha  is  described  (Earn.  i.  14  if.),  the 
proper  great  sacrifice  is  already  concluded,  and  the  priests  have  all 
been  presented  with  gifts  at  its  close,  when  the  new  sacrifice  is  com- 
menced, at  which  the  gods  appear,  then  withdraw,  and  now  for  the 
first  time  propose  to  Vishnu  to  become  incarnate.  If  this  had  been  an 
original  portion  of  the  story,  the  gods  would  certainly  have  considered 
the  matter  sooner,  and  the  ceremonial  of  sacrifice  would  have  pro- 
ceeded without  interruption.  In  the  same  book,  ch.  74,  75,  a  scene 
with  the  earlier  [or  Parasu-]  Kama  is  suddenly  interpolated,  in  order 
that  he  may  be  made  to  declare  the  new  Rama  to  be  Vishnu." 

An  examination  of  the  earlier  portions  of  the  Ramayana  seems  to 
confirm  the  opinion  of  Lassen  that  the  14th  and  following  sections 
which  describe  the  miraculous  births  of  Rama  and  his  brothers  as  in- 
carnations of  Vishnu,  are  additions  interpolated  at  a  later  date  in  the 
original  poem.  It  appears  from  various  passages  which  I  shall  cite 
from  the  8th  and  following  sections,  that  the  asvamedha  or  horse- 
sacrifice,  a  rite  of  great  importance  and  dignity,  was  instituted  for  the 
express  purpose  of  procuring  progeny  for  Dasaratha.  But  if  this  be 
so,  what  necessity  was  there  for  celebrating  the  fresh  ceremony,  al- 
luded to  at  the  beginning  of  section  14  as  a  "putnya  ishti,"  for  the 
same  purpose  ?  The  passages  to  which  I  allude  are  the  following : 

Ram.  i.  8,  1  ff.  (=Bombay  ed.  i.  8,  1 ;  Grorresio's  ed.  i.  8,  1). — Tasya 
to  evam-prabhdvasya  dhdrmikasya  mahdtmanah  \  putdrthatn  tapyamdnasya 
ndsid  vafiisa-karah  sutah  \  tasya  chintayato  luddhir  utpanneyam  mahd- 
mateh  \  sutdrtham  vdji-medhena  kimartham  na  yajdmy  aham  \  sunischitdm 
matiih  kritvd  yashtavye  vasudhddhipah  \  "  But  a  son  to  prolong  his  race 
was  not  born  to  this  king  so  mighty,  and  righteous,  and  great,  though 
n  he  performed  intense  austerity  for  that  purpose.  As  this  wise  man 
reflected,  the  idea  arose  in  his  mind,  'why  do  I  not  celebrate  a  horse- 
sacrifice  to  obtain  a  son?'  Having  then  formed  this  fixed  opinion  that 
he  ought  to  sacrifice,  the  kipg,  etc." 

Again,  in  sect.  11, 'I  (:=  Bombay  ed.  i.  12,  1 ;  Gorresio's  ed.  i.  11,  1), 
it  is  said :  Atha  kale  vyatikrdnte  sisire  tadanantaram  \  vasanta-samaye 


REGARDING  THE  BIRtH  OF  RAMA,  WITH  REMARKS.       171 

prdpte  raja  yashtum  mano  dadhe]  tatah  prasddya  sirasd  tarn  viprafii 
deva-varchasam  \  yajndya  varaydmdsa  santdndrtham  leulasya  vat  \ 
11  Then,  when  the  winter  had  passed,  and  the  spring  had  arrived,  the 
king  set  his  mind  upon  sacrificing.  Having  then  propitiated,  by 
[bowing]  his  head,  that  Brahman  of  divine  splendour,  he  solicited  him 
to  [perform]  a 'sacrifice  for  the  prolongation  of  his  race." 

Then,  after  calling  his  spiritual  advisers,  Vamadeva,  Javali,  Yasishtha, 
etc.,  he  says  to  them  (v.'  8=v.  8b  Bomb.  ed. ;  v.  11,  Gorr.):  Mama 
tdtapyamdnasya  putrdrtham  ndsti  vai  sulcham  \  tad  aham  haya-medhena 
yajeyam  iti  me  matih  \  tad-artham  yashtum  ichhdmi  haya-purvena 
karmand  \  "I  get  no  satisfaction,  though  I  perform  intense  austerity 
for  a  son.  It  is  therefore  my  resolution  'to  celebrate  a  sacrifice  in 
which  a  horse  is  the  first  victim." 

We  are  again  told  (v.  20) : 

Tatah  sa  gatvd  tdh  patnir  narendro  hridayangamdh  \  uvdcha  dllcshdm 
visata  yahhye  'ham  suta-kdrandt  \  "Then  going  to  his  beloved  wives, 
the  king  said  to  them,  'Enter  upon  a  course  of  consecration;  I  am 
about  to  sacrifice  for  a  son.' ' 

And  at  the  beginning  of  the  12th  section  (=Bomb.  ed.  13th;  Gorr. 
12th)  it  is  said:  Punah  prdpte  vasante  tu  purnah  samvatsaro  'bhavat  \ 
prasavdrtham  gato  yashtum  hayamedhena  mryavdn  \  "  Then,  when  the 
spring  arrived,  a  year  had  elapsed,  and  the  heroic  king  went  to  cele- 
brate a  horse- sacrifice  for  the  sake  of  offspring." 

Preparations  are  then  made  for  the  sacrifice  (sect.  12),  and  it  is  duly 
celebrated  (sect.  13).  The  queen,  Kausalya,  "through  desire  of  a  son," 
remains  in  close  contact  with  the  slaughtered  horse  for  one  night 
(13,  36  [=Bomb.  ed.,i.  14,  34;  Grorr.  i.  12,  34]:  Patatrina  tadd 
sdrddham  smhthitena  cha  chetasd  \  avasad  rajariim  ekdm  Kausalyd 
putra-kdmyayd\  and  the  other  two  queens  beside  her  (v.  37).16a 

The  conclusion  of  the  sacrifice  is  thus  recorded  at  the  end"  of  section 
13,  vv.  54  ff.  (=Bomb.  ed.  14,  58ft;  Gorr.  13,  45). 

168  See  "Wilson's  translation  of  the  R.  V.,  vol.  ii.,  Introd.,  p.  xiii. ;  the  Vajasaneyi 
Samhita,  xxiii.  20  ff.,  and  commentary ;  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  pp.  990  ff.;  Katyayana 
Sutras,  p.  973;  and  Mahabharata,  xiv.  2645.  On  the  word  patatrin,  "winged," 
applied  to  the  horse,  the  commentator  in  the  Bombay  ed.,  in  loco,  remarks :  Pura 
asvanam  pakshah  santi  iti  prasiddhya  evamvadph  \  pc^atrind  garuda-vegena  ity 
anye  \  "  This  is  said  because  it  is  well  known  that  horses  formerly  had  wings.  Others 
say  the  meaning  of  the  word  is,  '  having  the  speed  of  Garuda '  (the  fabled  bird)." 


172          ADDITIONAL  QUOTATIONS  FROM  THE  RAMAYANA 

Daksht'nah  parigriJiydtha  suprlt$.-mdnasd  dvy'dh  \  ucJmr  Dasaratham 
tatra  Tidmam  dhydyeti  vai  tadd  \  tato  'bravld  Rishy  airing  am  rdjd  Dasa- 
rathas  tadd  \  kulasya  vardhanam  tat  tu  kartum  arhasi  suvrata  \  tatheti 
sa  cha  rdjdnam  uvdcJia  dvija-sattamafy  \  Ihavishyanti  sutd  rdjams  chat- 
vdras  te  Tculodvahdh  \  "Having  received  the  gifts  with  great  gratification, 
the  Brahmans  then  said  to  Dasaratha,  'Think  of  the  object  you  desire.' 
The  king  then  said  to  Bishyasringa,  'Thou  oughtest,  saint,  to  effect  that 
increase  of  my  race.'  The  most  excellent  of  Brahmans  replied,  'So  be 
it  j"  king,  there  shall  be  to  thee  four  sons,  the  continuators  of  thy  race.' " 

We  are  then  told  at  the  beginning  of  section  14,  as  above  quoted 
(p.  165),  that  Eishyasringa,  after  thinking  over  the  preceding  reply, 
offers  to  celebrate  another  sacrifice  with  texts  from  the  Atharva-siras, 
in  order  to  procure  offspring  for  the  king ;  and  proceeds  accordingly  to 
do  so,  though,  in  striking  contrast  to  the  particular  description  given 
of  the  asvamedha,  no  details  of  this  additional  ceremony  are  supplied. 
We  are  then  told  (verse  4)  that  the  gods  had  previously  come  to  the 
asvamedha  sacrifice,  to  obtain  their  shares  of  the  oblations,  and  that 
Rishyasringa  now  tells  them  that  the  king  had  performed  austerity  in 
order  to  obtain  offspring,  that  he  had  also  celebrated  an  asvamedfra 
sacrifice,  and  was  now  about  to  perform  another  rite.  The  necessity 
for  this  second  sacrifice  does  not  appear ;  it  seems  strange  that  a  cere- 
mony of  such  importance  as  the  asvamedha  should  be  insufficient; 
there  appears  to  be  no  reason  why  the  gods  should  not  have  been  told 
at  first,  on  that  occasion,  that  the  king  was  anxious  for  a  son,  since 
that  was  the  very  object  for  which  the  first  sacrifice  was  offered ;  and 
that  this  communication  should  have  been  reserved  till  the  commence- 
ment of  the  second  sacrifice. 

In  section  15  (:=Bombay  ed.  15,  31  ff.  and  16;  Grorr.  15)  we  are 
told  that  Yishnu,  considering  how  he  shall  fulfil  his  promise  to  the 
gods,  makes  himself  fourfold,  and  chooses  Dasaratha  for  his  human 
parent.  He  then,  after  respectfully  addressing  Brahma,  disappears 
from  heaven,  and  when  Dasaratha  is  offering  the  second  sacrifice  for 
progeny,  the  god  issues  forth  from  the  fire  in  the  form  of  a  glorious 
being,  calling  himself  a  son  of  Prajapati  (prdjdpatyam  naram),  and 
bearing  a  large  vessel  full  f of  nectar.  This  nectar  he  desires  Dasa- 
ratha to  administer  to<  his  wives,  who  would  then  bear  sons.  Vishnu 
then,  after  receiving  the  king's  homage,  disappears. 


REGARDING  RAMA'S  BIRTH,  WITH  OBSERVATIONS.  173 

• 

Dasaratha  gives  the  half  of  the  potion  to  Kausalya,  and  a  fourth 
each  to  Sumitra  and  Kaikeyi.  They  all  in  consequence  become 
pregnant. 

Section  16  (=Bombay  ed.  17  ;  Gorresio,  20)  begins  thus:  Putratvam 
tu  gate  Vishnau  rafnas  tasya  mahdtmanah  \  uvdcha  devdn  dhuya  Svayam- 
Ihur  lhagavdn  idam  \  "When  Vishnu  had  entered  into  the  relation  of 
sonship  to  that  great  king,  the  divine  Svayambhu  (Brahma)  summoned 
the  gods,  and  said  to  them."  These  words  must  either  be  said  by 
way  of  anticipation,  for  the  birth  of  Dasaratha's  sons  is  not  related 
till  we  come  to  section  19  ;  or  the  section  must  be  misplaced,  or 
interpolated.  The  commentator  in  the  Bombay  ed.  explains  gate  by 
gantum  upakrdnte,  "had  begun  to  enter."  In  Gorresio's  ed.  this 
section  is  placed  as  the  20th.  Tlie  section  proceeds  to  describe  the 
creation  of  the  monkeys,  who  were  to  be  tile  allies  of  Rama. 

The  conclusion  of  the  asvamedha  sacrifice  and  the  departure  of  the 
gods  are  again  alluded  to  at  the  commencement  of  sect.  17  (Schlegel's 
ed.)  in  these  words:  1.  Sair^dpte  tu  kratau  tasmin  vdjimedhe  mahdt- 
manah |  havirlhdgdn  avdpyeshtdn  jagmur  devdh  yathdgatam  \  2  | 
rijJiayas  cha  mahdtmdnah  pratijagmuh  supujitdh  \  rdjdnas  chaiva  ye 
tatra  kratdv  dsan  samdgatdh  \  1.  "  When  that  horse-sacrifice  of  the  great 
king  had  been  completed,  the  gods,  having  received  the  desired  shares 
of  .the  oblations,  departed  as  they  had  come.  2.  The  great  rishis,  too, 
after  being  duly  honoured,  and  the  kings  who  had  come  to  the  sacrifice, 
returned."  Here  we  have  another  indication  that  the  sections  inter- 
vening between  the  13th  and  the  17th  form  a  later  interpolation. 
With  the  commencement  of  this  17th  section  of  Schlegel's  ed.,  the 
opening  verses  of  Gorresio's  16th  section,  and  of  the  18th  section 
of  the  Bombay  ed.,  coincide.  The  last-mentioned  recension,  however, 
from  which  I  proceed  to  quote  some  verses,  touches  very  briefly  on 
the  dismissal  of  the  kings  who  had  come  to  the  sacrifice,  and  of 
Rishyasringa,  and  proceeds  to  tfye  birth  of  Rama  and  his  brothers, 
whilst  the  other  two  texts  enlarge  on  the  former  topics,  and  do  not  \ 
arrive  at  the  last  subject  before  their  19th  section.  Sect.  18  of  the 
Bombay  ed.  begins  thus : 

1  |  Nivritte  tu  kratau  tasmin  hayamedhe  mahdtmanah  \  pratigrihyu- 
mardh  hhdgdn  pratijagmur  yathdgatam  \  2  |  sxmdpta-dlkshd-niyamah 
patnl-gana-samanvitah  \  pravivesa  purlm  rdjd  sa-bhritya-lala-vtihanah  , 


174     FURTHER  QUOTATIONS  FROM  THE  RlMAYANA 

• 

3  |  yathdrham  pujitds  tena  rdfnd  cfya  pritMvisvardh  \  muditdh  prayayur 
desdn  pranamya  muni-pungavam  \  4  |  srlmatdm  gachhatdm  teshdm  sva- 
grihdni  purdt  tatah  \  laldni  rdjndm  sulhrdni  prahrishtdni  chakdsire  \  5  \ 
gateshu  prithiviseshu  rdjd  DasarathaJ}  punah  \  pravivesa  purim  srlmdn 
puraslcritya  dvijottamdn  \  6  |  S'dntayd  prayayau  sdrdham  Rishyasringah 
supvjitah  \  anugamyamdno  rdjnd  chct  sdnuydtrena  dhlmatd  \  7  \  Evam 
visrijya  tan  sarvdn  rdjd  sampurna-mdnasah  \  uvdsa  sulcMtas  tatra 
putrotpattim  mchintayan  \  8  |  tato  yajne  s&mdpte  tu  ritundm  shat 
samatyayuh  \  tatas  cha,  dvddase  mdse  ityddi  \  1.  "When  that  horse- 
sacrifice  of  the  great  king  had  come  to  an  end,  the  immortals, 
after  receiving  their  shares,  returned  as  they  had  come.  2.  The 
ceremony  of  consecration  being  concluded,  the  king  with  his  wives, 
servants,  army,  and  chariots,  entered  into  the  city.  3.  The  princes, 
too,  after  being  duly  honoured  by  the  king,  and  having  made 
obeisance  to  the  most  excellent  muni,  departed  with  joy  to  their 
several  countries.  4.  The  hosts  of  these  glorious  monarchs,  as  they 
set  out  from  the  city  for  their  homes,  shone  brilliant  and  delighted. 
5.  When  they  had  gone,  King  Dasaratha  again  entered  the  city, 
preceded  by  the  Brahmans.  6.  Eishyasringa,  receiving  homage, 
set  out  with  (his  wife)  S^anta,  followed  by  the  wise  king  and  his 
attendants.  7.  Having  dismissed  all  these  (visitors),  the  king,  with 
satisfied  mind,  dwelt  in  happiness,  meditating  on  the  birth  of  his  sons. 
8.  Then  six  seasons  elapsed  after  the  sacrifice  had  been  completed; 
and  in  the  twelfth  month,"  etc.  [The  sequel  of  this  passage,  to- 
gether with  the  parallel  verses  of  Gorresio's  edition,  will  be  found 
in  the  Appendix.] 

Schlegel's  ed.,  as  I  have  already  noticed,  does  not  reach  the  same 
point  of  the  narrative  till  its  19th  section,  which  begins  by  relating 
the  birth  of  Dasaratha's  sons,  twelve  months  after  the  conclusion  of 
the  sacrifice,  by  which  no  doubt  the  horse  sacrifice  is  intended  (tato 
yajne  samdpte  tu  ritundm  shat  samatyayuh  \  tatascha  dvddase  mdse 
'  ityddi}.  After  specifying  the  month,  day,  and  planetary  influences 
under  which  Kama  was  born,  the  writer  proceeds :  .  .  .  .  Jaganndtham 
sarva-loka-namaslcritam  \  Kausalyd  'janayad  Rdmam  divya-lakshana- 
samyutam  \  Kausalyd  susubhe  tena  putrendmita-tejasd  \  yathd  'dhipena 
devdndm  Aditir  Vajvapdnina  \  [_*bhavdya  sa  hi  lokdndm  Rdvanasya 
ladhdya  cha  \  Vi&hnor  vlrydrdhato  jajne  Rdmo  rdjwa-lochanah  \  Bharato 


REGARDING  RAMA'S  BIRTH,  WITH  REMARKS,  175 

nutna  Kaikeyydmjajne  satya-pardkrantfih  \  'sdkshdd  Vishnos  chaturlhdgah 
sarvaih  samudito  gunaih  \  atha  Lakshmana- Satrughnau  Sumitrd  'janayat 
sntau  \  dridha-Wiaktl  maltotsdhau  Yishnor  ardha-samanvitau  \  ]  pushye 
jdtas  tu  Bharato  mlna-lagne  prasqnna-dhlh  \  sdrpe  jdtau  tu  Saumitrl 
kulire  'bhyadite  ravau  \ 

"  Kausalya  bore  Kama,  the  lord  of  the  universe,  adored  hy  all  worlds, 
distinguished  by  divine  marks.  Kausalya  derived  lustre  from  that  son 
of  boundless  might,  as  Aditi  did  from  the  Thunderer,  the  lord  of  the 
gods.  [*For  the  lotus -eyed  Rama  was  produced  from  the  half  of 
Vishnu's  virile  power,  for  the  good  of  the  world  and  the  slaughter  of 
Havana.  Bharata,  of  genuine  valour,  was  born  of  Kaikeyi,  manifest 
as  the  fourth  part  of  Vishnu,  endowed  with  all  virtues.  Then  Sumitra 
brought  forth  two  sons,  of  strong  devotion  and  great  energy,  Lakshmana 
and  Satrughna,  possessing  (each)  the  haiT  (of  the  fourth  part)  of 
Vishnu.]  Now  Bharata,  of  clear  understanding,  was  born  under 
Pushya  (the  eighth  lunar  mansion),  under  the  sign  of  the  fishes ; 
while  the  sons  of  Sumitra  we^e  born  under  the  [ninth]  lunar  mansion 
of  the  serpents,  when  the  sun  had  entered  into  Cancer." 

If  the  supposition  of  Schlegel  and  Lassen  that  the  14th,  15th,  and 
16th  sections  are  interpolated,  be  correct,  it  is  quite  conceivable  that 
the  verses  of  the  section  before  us  describing  Dasaratha's  sons  as 
portions  of  Vishnu,  which  I  have  marked  with  an  asterisk  and  in- 
cluded in  brackets,  may  also  have  been  interpolated,  as  they  can  be 
spared  without  detriment  to  the  connexion ;  and  if  they  are  retained, 
the  births  of  Bharata,  Lakshmana,  and  S'atrughna,  are  related  twice. 
In  that  case  the  epithets  "lord  of  the  universe,"  and  "adored  by  all 
worlds,"  which  occur  in  the  first  of  the  verses  I  have  quoted,  may 
have  been  afterwards  substituted  for  some  of  a  less  magnificent  cha- 
racter which  stood  there  before.  And,  in  fact,  if  Rama  was  originally 
regarded  as  an  incarnation  of  Vishnu,  it  does  not  appear  so  suitable 
to  compare  his  birth  to  that  of  Indra  (in  that  case  a  personage  of  less 
dignity  than  Vishnu),  as  is  done  in  one  of  the  verses  which  I  presume 
to  be  ancient,  and  genuine. 

The  following  is  a  summary  of  the  episode  of  the  apparition  of 
Parasurama  referred  to  above  by  Prof.  Lassen  in  p.  170.  When  King 

T^ 

Dasuratha  was  returning  to  his  capital,  after  taking  leave  of  Janaka, 
the  King  of  Hithila,  whose  daughter  Slta  had  just  been  married  to 


176  STORY  FROM  THE^RAMAYANA 

Rama  (Ramayana,  Schleg.  i.  74=Bombay  ed.  i.  74,  and  Gorresio's  ed. 
i.  76),  lie  was  alarmed  by  the  ill-omened  sounds  uttered  by  certain 
birds,  which  however  were  counteracted,  as  the  sage  Yasishtha  assured 
the  king,  by  the  auspicious  sign  of  his  being  perambulated  by  the 
wild  animals  of  the  forest.  The  alarming  event  indicated  was  the 
arrival  of  Parasurama,  preceded  by  a  hurricane  which  ,shook  the  earth 
and  prostrated  the  trees,  and  by  thick  darkness  which  veiled  the  sun. 
He  was  fearful  to  behold,  brilliant  as  fire,  and  bore  his  axe  and  a  bow 
on  his  shoulder.  Being  received  with  honour,  which  he  accepted,  he 
proceeded  to  say  to  Rama,  the  son  of  Dasaratha  (in  section  75),  that 
he  had  heard  of  his  prowess  in  breaking  the  bow  produced  by  Janaka 
(Ram.  i.  67),  and  had  brought  another  which  he  asked  Rama  to  bend, 
and  to  fit  an  arrow  on  the  string ;  and  if  he  succeeded  in  doing  so,  he 
(Parasurama)  would  offer  to  engage  with  him  in  single  combat.  Dasa- 
ratha is  rendered  anxious  by  this  speech,  and  adopts  a  suppliant  tone 
towards  Parasurama,  but  the  latter  again  addresses  Rama,  and  says 
that  the  bow  he  had  broken  was  S'iva's,  but  the  one  he  himself  had 
now  brought  was  Yishnu's.  Two  celestial  bows,  he  proceeds,  were 
made  by  Yisvakarman,  of  which  one  was  given  by  the  gods  to  Maha- 
deva,  the  other  to  Yishnu.  The  narrative  then  proceeds  (14  ff.) : 

Tadd  tu  devatdh  sarvdh  prichhanti  sma  Pitdmaham  \  S'itikanthasya 
Vishnos  cha  laldbala-nirikshayd  \  abhiprdyam  tu  vijnaya  devatdndm  Pitd- 
mahah  \  virodhamjanaydmdsatayohsatyavatdmvarah  \  virodhe  tu  method 
yuddham  abhavad  roma-harshanam  \  S'itikanthasya  Vishnos  cha  paraspara- 
jayaishinoh  \  tadd  tu  jrimbhitam  saivairt,  dhanur  bhlma-pardkramam  \ 
hunkdrena  Mahddevah  stambhito  'tha  trilochanah  \  devais  tada  samdgamya 
sarshi-sanghaih  sa-chdranaih  \  ydchitau  prasamam  tatra  jagmatus  tau 
surottamau  \jrimbhitaih  tad  dhanur  drishtvd  saivam  Vishnu-parakramaih  \ 
adhikam  menire  Vishnum  devdh  sarshi-gands  tathd  \  dhanu  Rudras  tu 
sankruddho  Videheshu  mahdyasdh  \  Devardtasya  rdjarsher  dadau  haste 
sa-sdyakam  \  idaih  tu  Vaishnavam  Rdma  dhanuh  para-puranjayam  \ 
Richlke  Bhdrgave  prdddd  Vishnuli  sa  nydsam  uttamam  \  "The  gods 
then  all  made  a  request  to  Brahma,  desiring  to  find  out  the  strength 
and  weakness  of  S'itikantha  (Mahadeva)  and  Yishnu.  Brahma,  most 
excellent  of  the  true,  learning  the  purpose  of  the  gods,  created  enmity 
between  the  two.  In  this,,  state  of  enmity  a  great  and  terrible  fight 
ensued  between  S'itikantha  and  Yishnu,  each  of  whom  was  eager  to 


EEGAEDING  PAEAS'UEAMA  AND  EAMA.  177 

conquer  the  other.  S'iva's  bow  of  dreadful  power  was  then  relaxed, 
and  the  three-eyed  Mahadeva  was  ai<rested  by  a  muttering.  These  two 
eminent  deities  being  entreated  by  the  assembled  gods,  rishis,  and 
Charanas,  then  became  pacified.  Seeing  that  the  bow  of  S'iva  had  been 
relaxed  by  the  prowess  of  Vishnu;  the  gods  and  rishis  esteemed  Vishnu 
to  be  superior.169  Then  the  illustrious  Rudra,  incensed,  gave  the  bow 
and  arrows  into  $ie  hand  of  the  royal  rishi  Devarata  [who  dwelt]  among 
the  Videhas.  But  this,  Rama,  is  the  bow  of  Vishnu,  which  vanquishes 
hostile  cities.  Vishnu  gave  this  excellent  deposit  to  Richika,  the 
descendant  of  Bhrigu."  From  him  it  came  to  Jamadagni,  father 'of 
Parasurama.  After  referring  to  his  father's  murder  by  Arjuna,170  and 
his  own  subsequent  history,  Parasurama  repeats  that  he  had  heard  of 
Rama's  prowess  in  breaking  the  other  bow, 'and  again  asks  him  to  bend 
Vishnu's ;  and  in  the  event  of  his  succeeding,  again  offers  to  fight  him. 
Rama  replies  (section  76)  that  though  his  warlike  qualities  are  con- 
temned by  his  rival,  he  will  give  him  a  proof  of  his  powers.  He  then 
snatches,  in  anger,  the  bow  from  the  hand  of  Parasurama,  bends  it,  fits 
an  arrow  on  the  string ;  and  tells  his  challenger  that  he  will  not  shoot  at 
him  because  he  is  a  Brahman,  and  for  the  sake  of  his  kinsman  Visva- 
mitra  ;  but  will  either  destroy  his  superhuman  capacity  of  movement,  or 
deprive  him  of  the  blessed  abodes  he  has  acquired  by  austerity.  The 
gods  now  arrive  to  be  witnesses  of  the  scene.  Parasurama  becomes 
disheartened  and  powerless,  and  humbly  entreats  that  he  may  not  be 
deprived  of  his  faculty  of  movement  (lest  he  should  be  incapacitated 
from  fulfilling  his  promise  to  Kasyapa  to  leave  the  earth  every  night), 
but  consents  that  his  blissful  abodes  may  be  destroyed.  He  then  goes 
on,  v.  17  (Schlegel's  and  Bombay  editions = sect.  77,  49  ff.  of  Gorresio): 
Akshayam  Madhuhantaram  jdndmi  tvdm  mahesvaram  (or  suresvaram]  \ 
dhanusho  'sya  pardmarsdt  svasti  te  'stu  parantapa  \  18  |  ete  sura-gandh 
sarve  nirlkshante  samdgatdh  \  tvdm  apratima-karmdnam  apratidvandvam 
dhave  \  19  |  na  cheyam  mama  Kdkutstha  vrldd  Wiavitum  arliati  \  tvayd 
trailokya-ndthena  yad  aham  mmukhlJcritah  \  17.  "By  the  bending  of, 

169  The  orthodox  commentator  (in  the  Bombay  edition)  will  not  allow  this  to  be 
taken  absolutely.     He  says  :    Vastutas  tit  prakrita-yud^he  Vishnor  adhikya-darsanat 
Tripura-badhe  S'ivasya  adhikya-darsanat  tayoh  samya-grahanam  iti  tatparyam  [  "  In 
reality,  as  we  find  that  Vishnu  is  the  stronger  in  the  fight  before  us,  whilst  S'iva  is 
stronger  in  the  slaughter  of  Tripura,  the  result  is  that  their  equality  must  be  assumed." 

170  See  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  second  edition,  pp.  449  ff. 

VOL.    IV.  12 


178       QUOTATION  REGARDING  RAMA  FROM  THE  YUDDHA. 

this  bow  I  recognize  thee  to,  be  the  imperishable  slayer  of  Madhu, 
the  great  Lord  (or  lord  of  the  Gods) :  hail,  vanquisher  of  thy  foes! 
18.  All  these  assembled  gods  behold  thee  whooart  unequalled  in  action, 
unrivalled  in  fight.  19.  It  need  be  no  cause  of  shame  to  me  that  I 
have  been  humbled  by  thee  who  art  the  lord  of  the  three  worlds." 
Rama  then  shoots  the  arrow,  and  destroys  Parasurama's  abodes. 

In  whatever  light  the  author  of  these  lines  may  really  have  looked 
upon  Vishnu,  whether  as  identical  with  the  supreme  Spirit  or  not,  the 
passage  itself  contains  no  epithet  or  expression  which  necessitates  such 
an  interpretation.  At  the  same  time  it  is  to  be  observed  that  the  Vishnu 
Purana  (see  Wilson's  trans,  pp.  594  ff.  4to.  ed.=pp.  114  ff.  vol.  v.  of 
Dr.  Hall's  ed.),  the  Harivamsa  (sections  183  and  184),  and  the  Bhaga- 
vata  Purana  (x.,  64th  and  previous  sections),  which  indubitably  regard 
Vishnu  as  the  supreme  De^ty,  also  relate  a  combat  between  him  and 
Mahadeva.  There  is  no  doubt,  however,  that  the  119th  section  of 
the  Yuddha  Kanda  of  the  Ramayana,  which  I  now  proceed  to  quote 
from  the  text  of  the  edition  published  some  years  ago  at  Bombay, 
distinctly  speaks  of  Rama  as  an  incarnation  of  the  supreme  Spirit. 
This  Bombay  text,  though  it  follows  the  Devanagari  recension  of 
Upper  India,  does  not,  in  this  section,  differ  materially,  except  in 
the  arrangement  of  the  verses,  from  that  of  Gorresio.  I  should  judge, 
from  the  nature  of  the  epithets  which  are  here  applied  to  Vishnu,  that 
this  chapter,  as  it  now  stands,  could  not  have  formed  part  of  the 
original  Ramayana.  In  the  preceding  portion  of  the  poem  it  had  been 
related  that  Sita,  after  being  recovered  by  Rama  on  the  defeat  and  death 
of  Ravana,  had  been  suspected  of  unchastity  by  her  husband,  and  had 
in  consequence  entered  the  fire.  The  119th  section  then  goes  on  thus: 

Yuddha-Kanda,  sect.  119, 1  ff. — Tato  hidurmandh  Rdmah  sndvaivam 

vadatdm  girah  \  dadhyau  muhurtam  dharmdtmd  vdshpa-vydkula-lochanah  j 

tato  Vaisravano  raja  Yamas  cha  pitribhih  saha  \  Sahasrdkshas  cha  deveso 

Varunascha  jalesvarah  \  shad-ardha-nayanah  srlmdn  Mahddevo  vrisha- 

dvajah  |  kartd  sarvasya  lokasya  Brahma  Irahma-viddm  varah  \  [m  sa  cha 

raja  Dasaratho  vimanenantarlksha-gah  I  alhydjagdma  tarn  desam  deva-rdja- 

sama-dyutih  \  ~\  ete  sarve  8?<mtigamy(i  vimdnaih  surya-sannibhaih  \  dgamya 

nagarlm  Lankdm  abhijagmus  cha  Rdghavam  \  tatah  sa-hastdbharandn 

pragrihyavipulln  Ihujdn  \  ab>  uvan  tridasa-sreshihdh  Rdghavam prdnjalim 

171  This  verse  is  found  in  Gorresio's  edition  only,  not  in  that  of  Bombay. 


KANDA  OF  THE  RiMAYANA  WITH  REMARKS.      17.9 

sthitam  |  kartd  sarvasya  lokasya  sreshfho  jndnaviddm  vibhuh  \  upekshase 
katham  Sitdm  patantlm  havyavdhane  \  katham  deva-gana-sreshtham 
dtmdnam  ndvabudhyase ,  |  Rita-dhdmd  Vasuh  purvam  Vasundm  cha 
Prajdpatih  \  tvam  traydndm  hi  lokdndm  ddikartd  svayam  prabhuh\ 
Hudrdndm  ashtamo  Hudrah  Sddhyandmapipanchamah  \  Asvinau  chdpi  te 
karnau  chandrddityau  cha  chakshushl  \  ante  chddau  cha  bhiltdndm  drisyase 
tvam parantapa  \  upekshase  cha  Vaidehlm  mdnushah prdlcrito  yathd  \  ity  ukto 
lokapalais  taih  svdmi  loka,sya  Rdghavah  \  abravlt  tridasa-sreshthdn  Rdmo 
dharma-lhritdm  varah  \  dtmdfoam  mdnusham  manye  Rdmam  Dasarathdt- 
majam  \  so  'ham  yascha  yatas  chdham  lhagavdms  tad  bravltu  me  \  iti  Iruvd- 
nam  Kdkutsthani  Brahma,  brahma-vidtim  varah  \  abravlt  srinu  me  vdkyaih 
satyam  satya-pardlcrama\  bhavdn  Ndrdyanahdevah  srlmdms  chakrdyudhah 
prabhuh\eka-sringo  vardhas  tvamlhuta-lhavya-sapatna-jit\aksharam  Brah- 
ma satyam  cha  madhye  chdnte  cha  Itdghava  \  lokdndm  tvam  paro  dharmo 
Yishvaksenas  chaturlhujah  \  S'drnga-dhanvd  Hrishileesah  purushah  puru- 
shottamah  \  ajitah  khadga-dhrig  Vishnuh  Krishnas  chaiva  vrihadbalah\ 
Sendnir  grdmanlh  satyas  tvam  buddhis  tvam  kshamd  damah  \  prabhavas 
chdpyayas  cha  tvam  Upendro  Madhusiidanah  \  Indra-karmd  Mahendras 
tvam  padmanabho  randnta-Jcrit  \  saranyam  saranam  cha  tvdm  dhur  divydh 
maharshayah  I  sahasra-sringo  veddtmd  sata-slrshdh  maharshabhah  \  tvam 
traydndm  hi  lokdndm  ddi-kartd  svayam  prabhuh  \  siddhdndm  api  sddh- 
ydndm  dsrayas  chdsi  purvaja  \  tvam  yajnas  tvam  vashatkdras  tvam 
omkdrah  pardt  parah  \  prabhavam  nidhanam  vd  te  na  viduh  ko  bhavdn 
iti  \  drisyase  sarva-bhuteshu  brdhmaneshu  cha  goshu  cha  \  dilcshu  sarvdsu 
gagane  parvateshu  nadlshu  cha  \  sahasra-charanah  srlmdn  sata-slrshdh 
sahasra-drik  \  tvam  dhdrayasi  bhutdni  vasudhdm  cha  sa-parvatdm  \  ante 
prithivydh  salile  drisyase  tvam  mahoragah  \  trlw  lokdn  dhdrayan  Rdma 
deva-gandharva-ddnavdn  \  aham  te  hridayain  Rdmajihvd  devi  Sarasvatl  \ 
devdh  romdni  gdtreshu  Brahmand  nirmitdh  prabho  \  nimeshas  te  smritd 
rdtrir  unmesho  divasas  tathd  \  sarnskdrds  te  'bhavan  veddh  naitad  asti 
tvayd  vind  \  jagat  sarvam  sariram  te  sthairyam  te  vasudhd-talam  \  Agnih 
kopah  prasddas  te  Somah  snvatsalakshana  \  tvayd  lokds  tray  ah  krdntdh* 
purd  svair  vikramais  tribhih  \  Mahendras  cha  krito  rdjd  Balim  baddhvd 
suddrunam  \  \^~'<i  yat  para,li  sruyate  jyotir  yat  paramsruyate  tamah  \  yat 
par  am  par  alas  chaiva,  paramdtmeti  kathyase  \  paramdkhyam  param  yach 
cha  tvam  eva  pariglyase  \  sthity-utpatti-viftdsdndm  tvdm  dhuh  paramdm 
172  These  two  verses  occur  in  Gorresio's  edition  only,  not  in  that  of  Bombay. 


180  TRANSLATION  OF  THE  PASSAGE  FROM  THE 

gatim  \  ]  Slid  Lakshmir  bhamn   Vishnur  devah  KrisJinah  prajupatih  \ 
badhdrtham  Ravanasyeha  pravishtcfmunmhim  tanum  ityddi  \ 

11  Then  the  righteous  Rama,  dejected,  on  hearing  the  words  of  those 
who  thus  spoke,  meditated  for  a  moment,  with  his  eyes  disturbed  by 
tears.  Then  King  Kuvera,  and  Yania  with  the  Pitris,  and  Indra,  lord 
of  the  gods,  and  Yaruna,  lord  of  the  waters,  and  the  glorious  three - 
eyed  Mahadeva,  whose  ensign  is  a  bull,  and  Brahma,  4he  creator  of  the 
whole  world,  the  most  eminent  of  the  knowers  of  the  Yeda ;  [*and 
that  King  Dasaratha,  moving  in  the  air  on  a  celestial  car,  arrived  in 
that  region,  equal  in  lustre  to  the  king  of  the  gods]  ;  these  all  having 
come  on  cars  brilliant  as  the  sun,  and  arrived  in  the  city  of  Lanka, 
came  near  to  Raghava  (Rama).  Then  these  most  eminent  gods, 
holding  the  large  arms  of  Rama,  adorned  with  armlets,  addressed  him 
as  he  stood  with  joined  h,pnds  :  '  How  dost  thou,  the  maker  of  the 
whole  universe,  the  most  eminent  of  the  wise,  the  pervading,  disregard 
Sita's  throwing  herself  into  the  fire?  How  dost  thou  not  perceive 
thyself  to  be  the  chief  of  the  host  of  the  gods  ?  [Thou  wast]  formerly 
the  Yasu  Ritadhaman,  and  the  Prajapati  of  the  Yasus.  Thou  art 
the  primal  maker  of  the  three  worlds,  the  self-dependent  lord,  the 
eighth  Rudra  of  the  Rudras,  and  the  fifth  of  the  Sadhyas.  The  Asvins 
are  thine  ears,  the  Moon  and  Sun  thine  eyes.  Thou,  vexer  of  thy 
foes,  art  seen  in  the  end  and  at  the  beginning  of  created  things.  And 
yet  thou  disregardest  Slta  like  a  common  man.'  Being  thus  addressed 
by  these  guardians  of  the  world,  Rama,  the  lord  of  the  world,  chief  of 
the  supporters  of  righteousness,  said  to  the  most  eminent  gods,  '  I  re- 
gard myself  as  a  man,173  Rama,  son  of  Dasaratha  ;  do  you,  divine  being, 
tell  me  who  and  whence  I  am.'  Brahma,  chief  of  the  knowers  of  the 

173  In  the  parts  of  the  Mahabharata  where  Krishna  is  identified  with  the  supreme 
Deity,  he  is  always  represented  as  perfectly  conscious  of  his  true  character.  The 
commentator  explains  away  this  eleventh  verse  in  the  following  manner :  Atha  Brah- 
manuyrahad  eva  Brahma-vidyaunmukhyasya  sruty-adi-siddhataya  tad-aunmukyasya 
"atmanafh  navabudhyase"  iti  Brahmanai'.a  kritatvat  taj-jijnasur  iva  svlyanam  sva- 
svarupa-bodhanaya  Brahmanaih  gurum  ajnah  iva  upasad  ity  aha  "atmanam"  iti  \ 
"As  it  is  established  by  the  Veda,  etc.,  that  the  aspiration  after  the  science  of  Brahma 
comes  only  from  the  grace  o^  Brahma,  and  since  Brahma  had  just  prompted  that 
aspiration  by  the  words  '  how  dost  thou  not  perceive  thyself  ? '  Rama,  assuming  the 
appearance  of  a  desire  to  know;  with  the  view  of  explaining  his  nature  to  his 
(worshippers'),  applies  to  Brahma,  as  an  ignorant  student  to  his  teacher,  and  says,  'I 
regard  myself/  etc." 


YUDDHA  KAXDA  OF  THE  RAMAYANA  WITH  NOTES.         181 

> 

Yeda,  replied  to  Kakutstha  (EamaJ  thus  speaking :  '  Hear  my  true 
word,  0  being  of  genuine,  power.  Thou  art  the  god,  the  glorious  lord, 
Narayana,  armed  with  the  discus.  Thou  art  the  one-horned  boar, 
the  conqueror  of  thy  foes,  past  'and  future,  the  true,  imperishable 
Brahma,  both  in  the  middle  and  end.  Thou  art  the  supreme  righteous- 
ness of  the  worlds,  Yishvaksena,  the  four-armed;  the  bearer  of  the  bow, 
S'arnga,  Hrishlkesa  (lord  of  the  senses),  Purusha  (the  male),  the  highest 
of  Purushas,  the  unconquered,  sword- wielding,  Vishnu,  and  Krishna  m 
of  mighty  force,  the  general,  the  leader,  the  true.  Thou  art  intelligence, 
thou  art  patience,  and  self-restraint.  Thou  art  the  source  of  being 
and  cause  of  destruction,  Upendra  (the  younger  Indra),  and  Madhu- 
sudana.  Thou  art  Mahendra  (the  elder  Indra)  fulfilling  the  function 
of  Indra,  he  from  whose  navel  springs  a  ,\otus,  the  ender  of  battles. 
The  great  divine  rishis  call  thee  the  refuge,  the  resort  of  suppliants. 
Thou  art  the  thousand-horned,  composed  of  the  Veda,  the  hundred- 
headed,  the  mighty.  Thou  art  the  primal  maker  of  the  three  worlds,  the 
self-dependent  lord,  and  the  refuge  of  the  Siddhas  and  Sadhyas,  0  thou 
primevally  born.  Thou  art  sacrifice,  thou  art  the  vashatkara,  and  the 
omkara,  higher  than  the  highest.  Men  know  not  who  thou  art,  the 
source  of  being,  or  the  destroyer.  Thou  art  seen  in  all  creatures,  in 
Brahmans  and  in  cows,  in  all  the  regions,  in  the  mountains  and  rivers, 
thousand-footed,  glorious,  hundred-headed,  thousand-eyed.  Thou  sus- 
tainest  creatures,  and  the  earth  with  its  mountains ;  thou  art  seen, 
Rama,  at  the  extremity  of  the  earth,  in  the  waters,  a  mighty  serpent 
supporting  the  three  worlds,  gods,  Gandharvas,  and  Danavas.  I  am 
thy  heart,  Rtima,  the  goddess  Sarasvati  is  thy  tongue.  The  gods-  have 
been  made  by  Brahma  i!he  hairs  on  thy  limbs.  The  night  is  called  the 
closing,  and  the  day  the  opening,  of  thine  eyes.  The  Vedas  are  thy 
thoughts.175  This  [universe]  exists  not  without  thee.  The  whole 
world  is  thy  body ;  the  earth  is  thy  stability.  Agni  is  thine  anger, 
Soma  is  thy  pleasure,  0  thou  whose  mark  is  the  S'rlvatsa.  By  thee 

174  If  this  means,  as  it  seems  to  do,  Krishna,  the  son  of  Devaki,  it  must,  if  not  an 
anachronism,  be  intended  as  prophetic.  The  commentator,  both  here  and  further  on, 
makes  it  mean  merely  the  "black- coloured"  (krishnas  tad-varnah). 

175 '  The  commentator  explains  samskarah  thus :  Sbihskriyante  bodhyante  ebhir  lokah 
iti  samskarah  pravritti-nivritti-vyavastha-bodhakdh  \  " SaTisfcaras  are  the  things  by 
which  people  are  instructed,  the  things  which  prescribe  the  rules  of  acting  and  for- 
bearing to  act."  Eut  this  cannot  \vell  be  the  sense  here. 


182  KRISHNA  THE  SON  OF  DEVAKI 

* 

the  three  worlds  were  traversed  bf  yore  with  thy  three  paces,  and 
Mahendra  was  made  king  after  thou  hadst  bound  the  terrible  Bali. 
[*That  which  is  known  as  the  chiefest  light,  that  which  is  known  as 
the  chiefest  darkness,  that  which  is"  higher  than  the  highest, — thou 
art  called  the  highest  Soul.  It  is  thou  who  art  hymned  as  that  which 
.is  called  the  highest,  and  [is]  the  highest.  Men  calltthee  the  highest 
source  of  continuance,  production,  and  destruction.]  Sita  is  Lakshmi,176 
and  thou  art  Vishnu,  the  divine  Krishna,  the  lord  of  creatures,  who 
hast  entered  a  mortal  body  for  the  slaughter  of  Havana,'  "  etc. 

In  the  same  way  as  Vishnu  is  associated  with  Rama  in  the  Rama- 
yana,  so  is  he  connected  with  Krishna  in  the  Mahabharata,  the  Vishnu, 
Bhagavata,  and  Brahma-vaivartta,  Puranas,  and  other  Vaishnava  works 
of  a  later  date.  In  the  two  first-named  Puranas,  though  Krishna  is 
sometimes  spoken  of  as  a  partial  incarnation  of  Vishnu  (see  the  passage 
from  the  Bhagavata  Purana,  x.  33,  27,  quoted  above,  p.  50,  and  another 
from  the  Vishnu  Purana,  which  will  be  adduced  below),  he  is  generally 
regarded  as  a  perfect  manifestation  of  that  deity,  who,  again,  is  iden- 
tified with  the  supreme  Spirit.  In  the  Mahabharata — which,  as  we  have 
seen,  contains  a  vast  collection  of  heterogeneous  materials  originating 
in  different  ages,  and  embodying  the  opinions  of  various  sects — we 
shall  find  that  Krishna  is  diversely  represented  in  different  parts  of 
the  work.  I  have  already  (p.  169)  quoted  some  remarks  of  Professors 
Wilson  and  Lassen  on  this  subject.  According  to  these  authors  Krishna, 
in  so  far  as  h«  is  introduced  as  an  actor  in  the  events  of  the  poem,  is 
generally  made  to  play  a  merely  human  part,  and  to  manifest  no  super- 
human power  in  succouring  friends,  or  overcoming  enemies;  while,  as 
Professor  Wilson  remarks,  his  divine  character  is  frequently  disputed. 
In  the  Chhandogya  Upanishad  he  is  spoken  of  simply  as  the  son  of 
Devaki.  In  various  parts  of  the  Mahabharata  he  is  described  as 
rendering  homage  to  Mahadeva,  and  as  receiving  from  him  boons  of 
various  kinds.  In  many  passages  he  is  identified  with  the  rishi  Nara- 
yana,  while  his  friend  Arjuna  appears  as  one  with  the  rishi  Nara,  the 
inseparable  companion  of  the  former.  In  these  various  passages, 
however,  Krishna  isjby  no'means  regarded  in  general  as  an  ordinary 
mortal.  He  receives  various  divine  weapons  from  Mahadeva;  in  his 

m  In  regard  to  Lakshmi  and  S'ri,  see  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  348  f. 


MENTIONED  IN  THE  CHHANDOGYA  UPANISHAD.  183 

character  as  the  rishi  Narayana,  he  lives  through  successive  ages,  and 
displays  superhuman  faculties.  Even  while  acting  as  the  ally  of  the 
Pandas,  he  destroys  S'isupala  supernaturally  with  his  discus.  And  in 
numerous  passages  he  is  identified  *in  the  clearest  manner  with  Yishnu, 
who  again,  as  I  have  said,  is  commonly  assumed  to  be  one  with  the 
supreme  Spirit.  3I  shall  now  proceed  to  adduce  a  variety  of  passages 
illustrative  of  these  varmus  assertions. 

I.  The  following  short  passage  from  the  Chhandogya  Upanishad 
(pp.  220  ff.  of  the  Bibl.  Ind.)  is,  I  believe,  the  oldest  text  yet  known 
in  which  Krishna  the  son  of  Devaki  is  mentioned.  It  is  extremely 
unfortunate  that  it  is  so  brief;  that  it  leaves  us  without  any  particulars 
of  a  personage  about  whom  we  should  have  been  glad  to  possess  the 
fullest  details,  who  in  after-times  became,  so  famous  as  to  obtain  the 
honour  of  deification, — except  the  meagre  information  that  he  was  the 
son  of  Devaki,  the  pupil  of  a  teacher  named  Ghora,177  and  that  he  was 
so  enthusiastically  devoted  to  the  pursuit  of  mystical  lore  as  to  become 
indifferent  to  everything  else': 

Tad  ha  etad  Ghorah  Angirasah  Krishndya  Devalu-putrdya  uktvd 
uvdcha  apipdsah  eva  sa  labhuva  so  'nta-veldydm  etat-trayam  pratipadyeta 
"  akshitam  asy  achy.utam  asi  prdna-samsitam  asi1'  iti  \  "  Ghora,  the  de- 
scendant of  Angiras,  having  declared  this  [the  preceding  mystical 
lore]  to  Krishna  the  son  of  Devaki,  said  to  him  that  [which,  when  he 
heard],  he  became  free  from  thirst  \i.e.  desire],  viz. :  '  let  a  man  at 
the  time  of  his  death  have  recourse  to  these  three  texts,  '  Thou  art  the 
undecaying,  thou  art  the  imperishable,  thou  art  the  subtile  principle  of 
breath.'  " 

I  quote  some  of  the  'commentator's  remarks  on  this  important  text : 

Tad  ha  etad  yajna-darsanafh  Ghoro  ndmatah  Angiraso  gotratah  Krish- 
ndya  Devakl-putrdya  sishydya  uktvd  uvacha  \  tad  "  etat  trayam  "  ityddi 
vyavahitena  samlandhah  \  sa  cha  etad  darsanam   srutvd  apipdsah  eva 
anydbhyo  vidydlho  lalhuva  \  itthafti  cha  visishta  iyaih  vidyd  yat  Krish- , 
nasya    Devakl-putrasya    anydm    vidydm   prati    trid-vichheda-lcarl    iti ' 
purusha-yajna-vidydm  stauti  \  Ghorah  Angirasah  Krishnaya  uJdvd  imam 
vidydm  Icim  uvdcha  iti  tad  aha  \  sa  evafh  yathokta-yajna-vid  anta-veld- 

ydm   marana-lcdle  etan-mantra-trayam  prbtipadyeta  japed  ity  arthah  \ 

«    J       -> 

117  I  am  not  aware  whether  Ghora  is  mentioned  in  connexion  with  Krishna  in  any 
other  work. 


184     PASSAGE  OF  THE  MAHABHARATA  IN  WHICH  KRISHXA 

....  prana-samsitam  prunasya  sbmsitam  samyak  tanukritancha  suksli- 
mam  tattvam  asi  .  .  .  .  |  "A  person,  Ghora,  by  name,  and  an  Angi- 
rasa  by  family,  having  declared  this  doctrine  of  sacrifice  to  Krishna 
the  son  of  Devaki,  his  pupil,  then  said,  etc.  The  connexion  of  the  last 
word  '  said,'  is  with  the  words  which  occur  some  way  below,  '  these 
three,'  etc.  And  having  heard  this  doctrine,  he  became,  free  from  desire 
for  any  other  kinds  of  knowledge.  In  this  manner  he  praises  this 
knowledge  of  the  Purusha-sacrifice  by  saying  that  it  was  so  distinguished 
that  it  destroyed  all  thirst  in  Krishna,  the  son  of  Devaki,  for  any  other 
knowledge.  He  now  tells  us  what  Ghora  Angirasa  said  after  declaring 
this  knowledge  to  Krishna.  It  was  this  :  '  Let  him  who  knows  the 
aforesaid  sacrifice,  at  the  time  of  his  death  have  recourse  to,  mutter, 
these  three  texts ;  .  .  .  .  prana-samsitatn  means,  '  thou  art  the  very 
minute,  and  subtile  principle  of  breath.'  " 

II.  I  shall  next  quote  some  passages  of  the  Mahabharata  in  which 
Krishna  is  represented  as  rendering  homage  to  Mahadeva,  and  conse- 
quently, to  all  appearance,  as  acknowledging  his  own  inferiority  to 
that  deity.  It  is  related  in  the  Vana-parvan  (vv.  1513-1656),  in  a 
passage  which  I  shall  quote  further  on,  that  Arjuna  goes  to  supplicate 
Mahadeva  for  celestial  weapons,  and  obtains  from  him  the  Pasupata. 

At  a  later  stage  of  the  poem  (Drona-parvan,  v.  2838)  Arjuna  is 
advised  by  Krishna  to  apply  again  to  Mahadeva  for  the  same  Pasupata 
weapon,  as  if  the  author  (if  indeed  he  is  the  same  by  whom  the  earlier 
passage  was  written)  had  forgotten  that  he  had  already  got  it.  Arjuna, 
it  appears,  had  vowed  (vv.  2681  ff.)  to  slay  Jayadratha  on  the  follow- 
ing day,  though  all  the  inferior  deities  should  stand  forward  as  his 
protectors.  Subsequently,  however,  he  becomes'dejected,  reflecting  that 
the  enemy's  leaders  would  do  their  utmost  to  preserve  Jayadratha,  and 
that  he  would  thus  be  unable  to  fulfil  his  promise  (vv.  2830  ff.). 
Krishna  hereupon  advises  Arjuna  to  supplicate  Mahadeva  for  the  Pasu- 
pata weapon  with  which  that  god  himself  had  formerly  destroyed  all  the 
Daityas,  and  with  which  he  (Arjuna)  would  be  able  to  slay  Jayadratha 
on  the  morrow  (vv.  2833  ff.).  Arjuna  and  Krishna  then  arrive  with 
the  speed  of  the  wind,  at  the  mountain  on  the  summit  of  which 
Mahadeva  abode,  where  they  obtain  a  vision  of  that  deity,  with  Par- 
vati  and  his  attendant  Bhutas  (demons).  On  seeing  him  Yasudeva 
(Krishna)  bows  down  to  the  earth  : 


IS  REPRESENTED  AS  WORSHIPPING  MAHADEVA.  185 

Mahabharata,  Drona-parvan,  vv.  21362  ff. —  Vdsudevas  tu  tarn  drishtvd 
jagdma  sirasd  kshitim  \  Pdrthena  saha  dharmdtmd  grinan  brahma  sand- 
tanam  \  loktidim  visva-karmanam  ajam  Isdnam  avyayam  \  manasah  para- 
mum  yonim  khaih  vdyum  jyotishdm  nidhim  \  srashtdram  vdridhdrdndm 
bhuvaicha  prakritim  pardm  \  deva-ddnava-yakshdndm  mdnavdndncha 
sddhanam  \  yogdndncha  param  brahma  triptam  brahma-viddih  nidhim  \ 
chardcharasya  srashtdram  pratihartdram.  eva  cha  \  Jcdla-kopam  mahdt- 
mdnam  sakra-surya-gunodayam  \  vavande  tarn  tadd  Krishna  vdn-mano 
buddhi-karmabhih  \  yam  prapadyanti  vidvdmsah  sukshmddhydtma-padai- 
shinah  \  tarn  ajam  kdrandtmdnam  jagmatuh  saranam  Bhavam  \  Arjunai 
chdpi  tarn  devam  bhuyo  bhuyo  'py  avandata  \  jndtvd  tarn  sarva-lhutddim 
bhiita-lhavya-lhavodbhavam  \  tatas  tdv  dgatau  drishtvd  Nara-Ndrdyandv 
ubhau  |  suprasanna-mandh  S'arvah  provdcha^prahasann  iva  \  ugatam  vdm 
nara-ireshthdv  uttishthetdm  gata-klamau  \  kincha  vdm  ipsitam  vlrau 
manasah  kshipram  uchyatdm  \  yena  kdryena  samprdptau  yuvdm  tat  sddha- 
ydmi  kim  \  vriyatdm  dtmanah  sreyas  tat  sarvam  pradaddmi  vdm  \ 

"  The  righteous  Vasudeva  '(Krishna)  then,  together  with  the  son  of 
Pritha  (Arjuna),  reciting  the  eternal  Veda,  bowed  his  head  to  the 
ground,  beholding  him,  the  source  of  the  worlds,  the  maker  of  the 
universe,  the  unborn,  the  imperishable  lord,  the .  supreme  source  of 
mind,  the  sky,  the  wind,  the  abode  of  the  luminaries,  the  creator  of  the 
oceans,  the  supreme  substance  of  the  earth,  the  framer  of  gods,  Danavas, 
Yakshas,  and  men,  the  supreme  Brahma  of  meditative  systems,  the  satis- 
fied, the  treasure  of  those  who  know  Brahma,  the  creator  of  the  world, 
and  also  its  destroyer,  the  great  impersonated  destructive  Wrath,  the 
original  of  the  attributes  of  Indra  and  Surya.  Krishna  then  reverenced 
him  with  voice,  mind,  ^understanding,  and  act.178  Those  two  [heroes] 
had  recourse  to  Bhava  (Mahadeva)  as  their  refuge, — to  him  whom  the 
wise,  desiring  the  subtile  spiritual  abode,  attain, — to  him  the  unborn 
cause.  Arjuna,  too,  again  and  again  reverenced  that  deity,  knowing 
him  to  be  the  beginning  of  all  beings,  the  source  of  the  past,  the . 
future,  and  the  present.  Beholding  those  two,  Nara  and  Narayana, 

j 

'  178  In  a  passage  from  the  S'antiparvan,  vv.  13152  ff.,  which  I  shall  quote  further  on, 
Krishna  explains  away  the  worship  which  here^nd  elsewhere  he  is  said  to  have 
rendered  to  Mahadeva,  by  saying  that  it  was  done>  for  thosake  of  example  to  others, 
aad  was  in  reality  offered  to  himself,  Mahadeva  being  one  of  his  manifestations,  and, 
in  fact,  one  with  him.  But  no  hint  is  given  of  this  here. 


186  PASSAGES  OF  THE  MAHABHARATA  REGARDING 

arrived,  S'arva  (Mahadeva),  then  greatly  gratified,  said,  as  if  smiling : 
'  Welcome,  most  eminent  of  men,  rise  up  freed  from  fatigue,  and  tell 
me  quickly,  heroes,  what  your  mind  desires.  Shall  I  accomplish  for 
you  the  object  for  which  you  have '"come?  Choose  what  is  most  for 
your  welfare.  I  will  give  you  all.'  " 

Krishna  and  Arjuna  then  recite  a  hymn  in  honomvof  Mahadeva,  in 
the  course  of  which  he  is  designated  as  the  "  soul  of  all  things,  the 
creator  of  all  things,  and  the  pervader  of  all  things  "  (visvdtmane  visva- 
srije  visvam  dvritya  tishthate}.  Arjuna  now,  after  reverencing  hoth 
Krishna  and  Mahadeva,  asks  the  latter  for  the  celestial  weapon.  They 
are  thereupon  sent  by  Mahadeva  to  a  lake  where  he  says  he  had 
formerly  deposited  his  bow  and  arrows.  They  there  saw  two  serpents, 
one  of  which  was  vomiting,  flames,  and  approached  them,  bowing  to 
Mahadeva  and  uttering  the  S'atarudriya.179  Through  the  power  of 
Mahadeva,  the  serpents  change  their  shape  and  become  a  bow  and 
arrow  (v.  2899),  which  Krishna  and  Arjuna  bring  to  Mahadeva. 
Eventually  Arjuna  receives  as  a  boon  from  Mahadeva  the  Pasupata 
weapon,  with  the  power  of  fulfilling  his  engagement  to  slay  Jayadratha 
(w.  2906  ff.) ;  after  which  they  both  return  to  their  camp. 

In  the  Sauptika-parvan,  312  f.,  Mahadeva,  smiling,  as  it  were  (hasann 
iva),  says  to  Asvatthaman  :  Satya-sauchdrjava-tydaais  tapasd  niyamena 
cha  |  kshdntyd  matyd  cha  dhrityd  cha  buddhyd  cha  vachasd  tathd  \ 
313.  Yathdvad  aham  drdddhah  JTrishnendklishfa-karmand  \  tasmdd 
ishtatamah  Krishna^  anyo  mama  na  vidyate  \  "I  have  been  duly 
worshipped  by  Krishna,  the  energetic  in  action,  with  truth,  purity, 
honesty,  liberality,  austerity,  ceremonies,  patience,  wisdom,  self- 
control,  understanding  and  words :  wherefore  no  one  is  dearer  to  me 
than  Krishna."  (See  Prof.  Monier  Williams's  analysis  of  this  book  in 
his  "Indian  Epic  Poetry,"  pp.  121  ff.) 

In  a  later  part  of  the  same  book  (vv.  765  ff.)  Krishna  thus  celebrates 
the  greatness  of  Mahadeva :  Nunam  sa  deva-devdndm  Isvaresvaram 
avyayam  \  jagdma  karanam  Draunir  ekas  tendbadhld  bahun  \  766  | 
prasanno  hi  Mahddevo  dadydd  amaratdm  api  \  vlryam  cha  giriso  dadydd 
yenendram  api  sdtayet  !  767  [  veddham  hi  JHahddevam  tattvena  Bharat- 
arshabha  \  yuni  cJidsya  pur'dndni  karmdni  vividhdni  cha  \  768  |  ddir 

179  A  long  hymn  from  the  Yajur-veda,  which  will  be  quoted  further  on  in  the 
chapter  on  Rudra. 


KRISHNA'S  ADOKATION  OF  MAHADEVA.  187 

-> 

esha  hi  Ihutdndm  madhyam  antas  cha  Shurata  \  vichcshtate  jagach,  chedaiJi 
sarvam  asyaiva  karmand  \  765.  "  Asvatthaman  resorted  to  the  im- 
perishable lord  of  lords  of  the  gods  of  gods  as  his  refuge  ;  and  through 
him  he,  though  but  one,  slew  many.  766.  For  Mahadeva,  if  pleased, 
can  bestow  even  immortality,  and  prowess  whereby  any  one  may 
overcome  even  Indra  himself.  767.  I  perfectly  know  Mahadeva,  and 
his  various  works  of  old,,  768.  For  he  is  the  beginning,  middle,  and 
end  of  (all)  creatures ;  and  this  entire  world  moves  through  his  agency." 
See  Williams's  "  Indian  Epic  Poetry,"  p.  123. 

The  Anusasana-parvan  also  contains  several  sections  in  which  the 
praises  of  Mahadeva  are  celebrated  at  considerable  length,  and  in  which 
he  is  declared  to  have  been  worshipped  by  Krishna.  At  v.  588  of  that 
book  Yudhishthira  asks  Bhishma  to  declare  the  names  of  that  deity, 
when  the  latter  replies  as  follows  (vv.  590  ff.)  : 

Asakto  'ham  gundn  vaktum  Mahddevasya  dhlmatah  \  yo  hi  sarva-gato 
devo  na  cha  sarvatra  drisyate  \  Brahma-  Vishnu-suresdndm  srashtd  cha 
prabhur  eva  cha  \  Brahmddaydh  Pisdchdntdh  yam  hi  devdh  updsate  \  pra- 
kritlndm  paratvena  purushasya  cha  yah  parah  \  chintyate  yo  yoga-vidbhir 
rishibhis  tattva-darsibhih  \  aJcsJiaram  paramam  Brahma  asachcha  sad- 
asachcha  yat  \  prakritim  purushanchaiva  Icsholhayitva  sva-tejasd  \  Brah- 
mdnam  asrijat  tasmdd  deva-devah  prajdpatih  \  Tco  hi  sakto  gundn  vaJctum 
deva-devasya  dhlmatah  \  garlha-janma-jard-yulcto  martyo  mrityu-saman- 
vitah  |  ko  hi  sakto  Bhavam  jndtum  mad-mdhah  Paramesvaram  \  rite 
Naruyandt  putra  sankha-chakra-gadd-dhardt  \  esha  vidvdn  guna- 
sreshtho  Vishnuh  parama-durjayah  \  divya-chakshur  mahdtejuh  vlkshyate 
\_vlkshate  ?]  yoga-chakshushd  \  Rudra-lhaktyd  iu  Krishnena  jagad 
vydptam  mahdtmand  \'  tarn  prasddya  tadd  devam  Badarydm  kila 
Bhdrata  \  arthdtm  priyataratvam  cha  sarva-lokeshu  vai  tadd  \  prdptavdn 
eva  rdjendra  suvarndkshdd  Mahesvardt  \  purnafh  varsha-sahasram  tu 
taptavdn  esha  Mddhavah  \  prasddya  varadam  devam  chardchara-gurum 
S'ivam  \  yuge  yuge  tu  Krishnena  toshito  vai  Mahesvarah  \  lhaktyd  para- 
tnayd  chaiva  prltaschaiva  mahdtmanah  \  aisvaryam  yddrisam  tasya 
jagad-yoner  mahdtmanah  \  tad  ay  am  drishtavdn^dkshdt  putrdrthe  Harir 
adhyutah  \  tasmdt  parataranchaiva  ndnyam  paiydmi  Bhdrata  \  vydkhyd- 
tum  deva-devasya  sakto  namdny  aseshatah  \  '^sha  sakto  mahdbdhur  vaktum 
bhagavato  gundn  \  vibhutinchaiva  kdrtsnyena  satydm  mdhesvarim  nripa  ' 

180  The  MS.  of  the  Mahabhurata  in  the  library  of  the  Eoy.  As.  Soc  reads  annat. 


188      KRISHXA  PROPITIATES  MAHADEVA  BY  AUSTERITIES, 

"  I  am  unable  to  declare  the  attributes  of  the  wise  Mahadeva,  who  is 
an  all-pervading  god,  yet  is  nowhere  seen,  who  is  the  creator  and  the 
lord  of  Brahma,  Vishnu,181  and  Indra,  whom  the  gods,  from  Brahma  to 
the  Pisachas,  worship,  who  transcends  material  natures  as  well  as  spirit 
(Purusha),  who  is  meditated  upon  by  rishis  versed  in  contemplation 
(yoga],  and  possessing  an  insight  into  truth,  whor"is  the  supreme, 
imperishable  Brahma,  that  which  is  both  non-existent,  and  at  once 
existent  and  non-existent.  Having  agitated  matter  and  spirit  by  his 
power,  this  god  of  gods  and  lord  of  creatures  (Prajapati)  thence  created 
Brahma.  "What  human  being  like  me,  who  has  been  subject  to  gesta- 
tion in  the  womb,  and  to  birth,  and  is  liable  to  decay  and  death,  can 
declare  the  attributes  of  Bhava,  the  supreme  lord, — [who  can  do  this] 
except  Narayana,  the  bearer  of  the  shell,  the  discus,  and  the  club? 
This  Vishnu,  wise,  eminent  in  qualities,  very  hard  to  overcome, 
with  divine  insight,  of  mighty  power,  beholds182  [him]  with  the 
eye  of  contemplation.  Through  his  devotion  to  Eudra,  the  world 

. 

is  pervaded  by  the  mighty  Krishna.  Having  then  propitiated  that 
deity  (Mahadeva)  at  Badari,  he  (Krishna)  obtained  from  the  golden- 
eyed  Mahesvara  the  quality  of  being  in  all  worlds  more  dear  than 
wealth.  This  Madhava  (Krishna)  performed  austerity  for  a  full 
thousand  years,  propitiating  S'iva,  the  god  who  bestows  boons,  and  the 
preceptor  of  the  world.  But  in  every  mundane  period  (yuga)  Mahes- 
vara has  been  propitiated  by  Krishna,  and  has  been  gratified  by  the 
eminent  devotion  of  that  great  personage.  This  unshaken  Hari 
(Krishna),  [when  seeking]  for  offspring,  has  beheld  distinctly  of  what 
character  is  the  glory  of  that  great  parent  of  the  world.  Than  him 
I  behold  none  higher.  This  large-armed  [KrisTina]  is  able  to  recount 
fully  the  names  of  the  god  of  gods,  to  describe  the  qualities  of  the 
divine  [being],  and  the  real  might  of  Mahesvara  in  all  its  extent." 
Bhishma  then  calls  upon  Krishna,  whom  he  designates  as  Vishnu, 

181  Professor  Aufrecht  (Catalogue,  p.  54 a,  note)  quotes  the  following  verse  from 
the  55th  chapter  of  the  Vayu  Purana,  as  spoken  by  Mahadeva :  Ayam  me  dakshino 
bahur  Brahma   loka-pitama/tah  \  vamo   bahus    cha  me   Vishnur  niti/am  yuddheshu 
nirjitah  \  ' '  Brahma,  the  parent  of  the  universe,  is  my  right  arm,  and  Vishnu  is  my 
left  arm,  always  overcome  in  battles."    Must  not  the  correct  reading  here  be  yuddheshv 
anirjitah,  "unconquered  i:  battles"  ? 

182  The  printed  text  reads  vlkshyate,  "  is  beheld,"  but  the  sense  seems  to  require 
v~ikshate,  "beholds." 


AND  CELEBRATES  HIS  GREATNESS.          189 

and  as  the  divine  teacher  of  gods  and,  Asuras  (surdsura-guro  deva 
Vishno\  to  celebrate  Mahadeva's  greatness.  Krishna  accordingly  says 
(vv.  610  ff.) : 

2Fa  gatih  karmandm  sakyd  vettum  isasya  tattvatah  \  Hiranyagarlha- 
pramulchdh  devdh  sendrdh  maharbhayah  \  no,  vidur  yasya  Ihavanam 
JLditydh  sulcshma-darsinah  \  sa  katham  nara-mdtrena  sakyo  jndtum  satdih 
gatih  \  tasydham^sura-ghnasya  Icdmschid  lhagavato  gundn  \  lhavatdm 
kirtayishydmi  vratesdya  [vratesasya ? ]  yathdtatham  [  "The  course  of 
the  deeds  of  Isa  (Mahadeva)  cannot  he  really  known.  He  whose  essence 
neither  the  gods  headed  by  Hiranyagarbha,  nor  the  great  rishis  with 
Indra,  nor  the  Adityas,  the  perceivers  of  the  minutest  objects,  under- 
stand,— how  can  he,  the  refuge  of  saints,  be  known  by  any  mere  man  ? 
I  shall  declare  to  you  exactly  some  of  the  attributes  of  that  divine 
slayer  of  the  Asuras,  of  the  lord  of  religious  ceremonies." 

Krishna  then  relates  how  he  had  formerly  seen  Mahadeva.  It  appears 
that  his  wife  Jambavati  (v.  616),  daughter  of  the  king  of  the  monkeys 183 
(kapmdra-putri,  v.  629),  had  come  to  him  desirous  of  a  son ;  she  says 
(vv.  619  f.): 

Na  hi  te  'prdpyam  astlha  trishu  loJceshu  kinchana  \  lokdn  srijes  tvam 
apardn  ichhan  Yadu-Jculodvaha  \  tvayd  dvddasa-varshdni  vratilhutena 
sushyatd  \  drddhya  pasubhartdram  Btdcminydm  janitdh  sutdh  \  "  Por 
there  is  nothing  in  these  three  worlds  unattainable  by  thee  (Krishna). 
Thou,  scion  of  the  race  of  Yadu,  couldst  create  other  worlds.184  By 
thee,  after  twelve  years'  fasting  and  mortification,185  and  worship  of 
the  nourisher  of  beasts  (Mahadeva),  sons  were  begotten  on  Bukmin! 
(another  of  his  wives)." 

Krishna  promises  to  bring  about  the  accomplishment  of  Jambavati's 
wishes.  The  story  proceeds  that  he  was  then  conveyed  by  the  celestial 
bird  Garuda  to  the  Himalaya  (v.  632),  where  he  sees  the  delightful 
hermitage  of  the  saint  Upamanyu,  which  is  described  at  length  (vv. 
634-652). 186  Krishna  enters,  and  is  reverentially  saluted  by  Upamanyu 

183  He  is,  however,  called  king  of  the  bears  in  the  Vishnu  Purana. — See  "Wilson's 
translation,  p.  427  f.  (TO!,  iv.,  pp.  76  and  79  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.) 

184  Compare  what  is  said  of  Vis'vSmitra  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  p.  404. 

185  This  twelve  years'  austerity  performed  before  for  tne  sake  of  progeny  is  alluded 
to  further  on  in  the  Anus'fisana-parvan,  v.  6397,  and  the  birth  of  a  son  is  mentioned, 
v.  6889.     As  Krishna  is  represented  in  that  passagJ  in  a  higher  character  than  he  is 
in  the  one  before  us,  it  will  be  more  appropriately  quoted  further  on. 

186  One  of  the  features  of  the  hermitage  is  thus  depicted  in  v.  651 :  KrJdanti  sar- 


190  UPAMANYU  CELEBRATES  MAHADEVA'S  PRAISES. 

(v.  655),  who  tells  him  that  after  propitiating  Mahadeva  by  austerities, 
he  shall  obtain  a  son  equal  to  hidtself  (v.  658).187  The  saint  then  goes 
on  to  celebrate  the  greatness  of  Mahadeva^  who,  he  said,  had  given 
boons  to  various  beings,  and  to  Vishnu  his  discus  (vv.  662  ff.) : 

Hiranyakasipur  yo  'bhud  ddnavo  Meru-Jcampanah  \  tena  sarvdmarais- 
varyam  S'arvdt  prdptam  samdrbudam  \  tasyaiva  putra-pravaro  Man- 
daro  ndma  msrutah  I  Mahddeva-vardch  chhalcram  varshdrbudam  ayod- 
"hayat  \  Vislmos  chakrancha  tad  ghoram  vajranir^ikhandalasya  cha  \  sirnam 
purd  'bhavat  tufa  Grahasydngeshu  Kesava  \  yat  tad  bhagavatd  purvam 
dattam  chakram  tavdnagha  \jaldntara-cJiaram  hatvd  daityancha  bala- 
garvitam  \  utpdditam  Vrishdnkena  dlptam  jvalana-sannibham  \  dattam 
bhagavatd  tubhyaih  durdharsham  tejasd  'dbhutam  \  na  sakyam  drashtum 
anyena  varjayitvd  Pindkinam  \  Sudarsanam  bhavaty  evam  Bhavenoktani 
tadd  tu  tat  \  Sudarsanam,.  tadd  tasya  loke  ndma  pratishthitam  \  taj 
jlrnam  abhavat  tdta  GraJiasydngeshu  ITesava  \  Grahasydtibalasydnge 
varadattasya  dhtmatah  \  na  sastrdni  vahanty  ange  cJiakram  vajra-satdny 
api  |  ardamdndscha  vibudhd  Grahena  suballyasd  \  S'iva-datta-vardn 
jaghnur  asurendrdn  Surah  bhrisam  \ 

"  Hiranyakasipu,  the  Danava,  the  shaker  of  mount  Meru,  obtained 
from  S'arva  (Mahadeva)  the  sovereignty  of  all  the  immortals  for  a 
hundred  million  years.  He  had  an  eminent  and  renowned  son,  called 
Mandara,  who  by  the  grace  of  Mahadeva  fought  with  Indra  for  a 
hundred  million  years.  Formerly  both  the  dreadful  discus  of  Vishnu 
and  the  thunderbolt  of  Akhandala188  (Indra)  were  shattered  against 
the  limbs  of  Graha  (Rahu).  That  discus,  resplendent  and  fiery, 
which  was  formerly  given  to  thee  by  the  god  after  slaying  the 
marine  monster,  and  the  Daitya,  proud  of  his  strength,  was  produced 

pair  nakulah  mrigair  vyaghrascha  mitra-vat  \  prabhavad  dlpta-tapasam  sannikarshad 
mahatmanam  \  "  Weasels  sport  in  a  friendly  fashion  with  serpents,"  [the  two  kinds  of 
creatures  being  deadly  foes],  "  and  tigers  with  deer,  through  the  power  of  those  saints 
of  brilliant  austerity,  from  the  proximity  of  those  mighty  ones." — Compare  Isaiah 
'  xi.  6  ff. :  "  The  wolf  also  shall  dwell  with  the  lamb,  and  the  leopard  shall  lie  down 
with  the  kid,"  etc. 

167  In  v.  655  the  appellation  ptmdarlkaksha,  "lotus-eyed,"  and  in  v.  659,  that  of 
adhokshaja,  are  applied  to  Krishna. 

188  This  word  occurs  in  Rigveda,  viii.  17,  12,  and  the  words  are  quoted  in  the 
Nirukta,  iii.  10  :  Akhandala  pro,  huyase  \  "  0  Akhandala,  or  destroyer,  thou  art  in- 
•yoked."  It  is  rendered  "Chatterer,"  "  destroyer,"  in  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon,  s.v . 


SOME  OF  MAHADEVA' S  CnAKACTERISTICS.  191 

by  Mahadeva.189  Bestowed  upon  theo  by  the  god,  resistless,  and 
wonderful  in  its  potency,  it  could  *not  be  looked  upon  by  any  other 
than  Pinakin  (the  bearer  of  the  bow,  i.e.  Mahadeva).  It  then  re- 
ceived from  Bhava  (Mahadeva)  the  name  of  Sudarsana,  and  by  that 
name  it  is  celebrated  in  the  world/  That  discus  was  shattered  against 
the  limbs  of  Graha.  On  the  body  of  the  wise  and  very  powerful 
Graha,  who  had) received  a  boon,  no  weapons,  not  even  the  discus, 
or  a  thousand  thunderbolts,  produce  any  effect.  The  gods  being 
harassed  by  the  most  mighty  Graha,  slew  on  many  occasions  the 
Asuras  who  had  received  boons  from  S'iva." 

After  telling  that  many  other  persons  had  obtained  boons  by  wor- 
shipping Mahadeva,  the  saint  Upamanyu  relates  a  story  about  himself, 
how  his  mother,  after  smelling  him  on  the  head  (murdhany  dghruya) 
had  fully  declared  to  him  the  greatness  of  this  deity  (vv.  724  ff.).  In 
addition  to  the  more  general  attributes  assigned  to  the  god,  the  follow- 
ing are  some  characteristics  of  a  more  special  description  (some  of  them 
sufficiently  horrible  or  disgusting),  as  detailed  with  admiration  by  this 
female  devotee.  He  assumes  many  forms  of  gods  (as  Brahma,  Vishnu, 
Indra,  Eudra),  and  of  men,  of  goblins,  demons,  barbarians,  tame  and 
wild  beasts,  birds,  reptiles,  fishes,  with  many  varieties  of  human 
disguises,  etc.  (v.  731  ff.).  He  is  the  soul  of  all  the  worlds,  all-per- 
vading, residing  in  the  heart  of  all  creatures,  knowing  all  desires 
(v.  7^2  f.).  He  carries  a  discus,  a  trident,  a  club,  a  sword,  an  axe 
(v.  745).  He  has  a  girdle  of  serpents,  earrings  of  serpents,  a  sacrificial 
cord  of  serpents,  and  an  outer  garment  of  serpents'  skins  (v.  746).  He 
laughs,  sings,  dances  charmingly,  and  plays  various  musical  instruments 
(v.  747).  He  leaps,  gapes,  weeps,  makes  others  weep ;  speaks  like  a 
madman  or  a  drunkard, "as  well  as  in  sweet  tones  (v.  748).  He  laughs 
terrifically  (v.  749).  He  is  both  visible  and  invisible,  on  the  altar,  on 
the  sacrificial  post,  in  the  fire,  a  boy,  an  old  man,  a  youth  (v.  751). 
He  dallies  with  the  daughters  and  the  wives  of  the  rishis,  with  erect 
hail',  obscene  appearance,190  naked,  with  excited  look  (v.  752  :  Icrldate 

189  In  an  account  of  Krishna's  exploits  in  the  Drona-parvan,  however,  it  is  said  (v. 
402)  that  the  chakra  was  obtained  by  worshipping  Agnl :  Khandave  Partha-sahitas 
toshayitva  Hutasanam  \  Agneyam  astram  durdharshaiti  chakram  kbhe  mahabalah  \ 
In  the  same  passage  (v.  401)  he  is  said  to  have  chained  his  shell  (gankha)  by  con- 
quering Panchajana  in  the  infernal  regions.  •  * 

190  Literally,  ingenti  membro  virili prcedilui.     Compare  Sauptika-parvan,  v.  289. 


I 

192    MALES  BEAR  THE  MARK  OF  MAHADEVA,  FEMALES  OF  UMA. 

rishi-kanyabhir  rishi-patnlbhif  eva  cha  \  urddha-keso  mahdsepho  nagno 
vikrita-lochanah  \  ).  He  is  one-feced,  two-faced,  three-faced,  many- 
faced. 

Such  is  the  deity,  of  whom,  after  hearing  this  description,  TJpamanyu 
becomes  a  constant  devotee,  and  wh'om  he  gratifies  by  long  austerities, 
standing  for  a  thousand  years  on  the  tip  of  his  left  toe,  during  the  first 
hundred  years  of  which  period  he  lives  on  fruits,  the  second  hundred 
on  withered  leaves,  the  third  hundred  on  water,  and  the  remaining 
seven  hundred  on  air  (v.  758  ff.).  Mahadeva  at  length  appears  to  him 
in  the  form  of  Indra,  and  offers  him  his  choice  of  a  boon.  Upamanyu, 
however,  is  indifferent  about  Indra,  and  declares  that  he  cares  nothing 
about  any  other  god  than  Mahadeva,  and  will  accept  no  boon,  however 
great,  at  the  hand  of  any  other,  adding  many  passionate  expressions  of 
devotion  to  this  deity.  And  a  further  occasion  being  offered  by  a  ques- 
tion of  Indra,  the  saint  again  proceeds  to  expatiate  in  a  passage  of 
some  length  on  the  attributes  of  his  favourite  god  (vv.  784-829),  of 
which  I  shall  only  quote  the  following  lines  (v.  822  ff.) : 

JETetubhir  vd  him  anyais  tair  Isah  kd^ana-kdranam  \  na  susruma  yad 
anyasya  lingam  abhyarchyate  suraih  \  kasydnyasya  suraih  sarvair  lingam 
muktvd  Mahesvaram  \  archyate  '  rchita-purvam  vd  Iruhi  yady  asti  te 
Srutih  |  yasya  Brahma  cha  Vishnus  cha  tvam  chdpi  saha  daivataih  \ 
archayethdh  sadd  lingam  tasmdch  chhreshthatamo  hi  sah  \  na  padmdnkdh 
na  chakrdnkdh  na  vajrdnkdh  yaiah  prajdh  \  lingdnkd  cha  hhagdnkd  cha 
tasmdd  Mdhesvarl  praja  \  Devyuh  kdrana-rupa-bJidva-janituh  sarvdh 
lhagdnkdh  striyo  lingendpi  Earasya  sarva-purushah  pratyaksha-chih- 
mkritah  \  yo  'nyat  kdranam  Isvarat  pravadate  devyd  cha  yad  ndnkitam 
trailokye  sachardchare  sa  tu  pumdn  vdhyo  bhaved  durmatih  \  piimlingarh 
sari'am  Jsanam  strl-lingafii  mddhi  cliapy  Umdt.i  \  dvdbhydm  tanubhyam 
vydptam  hi  chardcharam  idamjagat  \  "Is  Isa  (Mahadeva)  the  Cause  of 
causes  for  any  other  reasons  ?  "We  have  not  heard  that  the  linga  (male 
organ)  of  any  other  person  is  worshipped  by  the  gods.  Declare,  if  thou 
hast  heard,  what  other  being's  lin'ga  except  that  of  Mahesvara  is  now 
worshipped,  or  has  formerly  been  worshipped,  by  the  gods  ?  He  whose 
linga  Brahma  and  Vishnu,  and  thou  (Indra),  with  the  deities,  con- 
tinually worship,  is  therefore  the  most  eminent.  Since  children  bear 
neither  the  mark  of  the  lotas  (Brahma's),  nor  of  the  discus  (Vishnu's), 
nor  of  the  thunderbolt  (Indra's),  but  are  marked  with  the  male  and  the 


BRAHMA  AND  VISHNU  CELEBRATE  MAHADEVA'S  PRAISES.     193 

female  organs, — therefore  offspring  ^is  derived  from  MahesVara.  All 
women  produced  from  the  nature  of  Devi  as  their  cause,  are  marked 
with  the  female  organ,  and  all  males  are  manifestly  marked  with  the 
linga  of  Hara.  He  who  asserts  ?_ny  other  cause  than  Isvara  (Maha- 
deva)  or  [affirms]  that  there  is  any  [female]  not  marked  by  Devi  in 
the  three  worlds,  including  all  things  movable  or  immovable,  let  that 
fool  be  thrust  out.  Know  everything  which  is  male  to  be  Isana,  and 
all  that  is  female  to  be  TJma;  for  this  whole  world,  movable  and  im- 
movable, is  pervaded  by  [these]  two  bodies." 

The  saint  is  at  length  gratified  by  the  appearance  of  Mahadeva  him- 
self with  his  spouse  Parvati  (vv.  837-841  f.) ;  and  a  long  description  of 
the  vision  is  given.  Brahma  and  Vishnu  stand  on  Mahadeva's  right 
and  left,  and  celebrate  his  praises  (v.  869  f.) : 

Savya-dese  tu  devasya  Brahma  loka-pitdmahah  \  divyafh  vimdnam dsthdya 
hamsa-yuktam  manojavam  \  vdma-pdrsva-gatas  chdpi  tathd  Ndrdyanah 

sthitah  |  Vainateyam  samdruhya  sankha-chakra-gadd-dharah  \ 

875  f.  Afttuvan  vividhaih  siotratr  Mahddevam  surds  tadd  \  Brahma 
Bhavam  tadd  'staushld  rathantaram  udlrayan  \  jyeshtha-sdmnd  cha  deve- 
sam  jagau  Ndrdyanas  tadd  \  grinan  brahma  par  am  S'akrah  satarudriyam 
uttamam  \  Brahma  Ndrdyanas  chaiva  devardjascha  Kausikah  \  asobhanta 
mahdtmdnas  trayas  trayah  ivdgnayah  \  869.  "  On  the  left  (right  ?)  of  the 
god  was  Brahma,  patriarch  of  the  world,  standing  on  a  celestial  car, 
drawn  by  swans,  and  fleet  as  thought.  On  the  left  was  Narayana 

(Vishnu)  mounted  on  Garuda,  bearing  a,  shell,  discus  and  club 

875.  The  gods  then  lauded  Mahadeva  with  various  hymns.  Brahma 
celebrated  him,  reciting  the  Rathantara,  while  Narayana  hymned  the 
god  of  gods  with  the  Jyeshtha  saman,  and  Indra,  uttering  that  most 
eminent  prayer,  the  excellent  S'atarudriya.  Brahma,  Narayana,  and 
the  king  of  the  gods  (Indra),  the  son  of  Kusika,191  the  three  mighty 
deities,  shone  like  the  three  fires." 

TJpamanyu  himself  then  lauds  M.ahadeva  (vv.  880-923).  At  the 
conclusion  of  his  hymn  a  shower  of  flowers  falls  from  the  sky  on  his 
head,  accompanied  by  celestial  odours,  and  music  (v.  925  f'.),  and  Maha- 
deya  addresses  him,  offering  to  bestow  everything  he  wishes.  TJpamanyu 

* 

191  The  epithet  of  Kaus'ika  is  given  to  Indra  in  B.  V.  i.  »,  11.  See  the  first  vol. 
of  this  work,  pp.  347  f. 

VOL.  iv.  *  .13 


194         KRISHNA  PRACTISES  AUSTERITIES,  HAS  A  VISION 

sheds  tears  of  joy,  falls  on  his  knees,  makes  repeated  prostrations,  and 

(_3 

after  acknowledging  with  gratitude  the  god's  condescension  in  granting 
him  this, vision,  proceeds  to  say  (vv.  839  ff.)  r 

Sa  esha  lhagavan  devah  sarva-sattvadir  avyayah  \  sarva-tattva-vidhana- 
jnah  pradhana-purushah  parah  \  yo  'srifad  dakshindd  angad  Brahmdnam 
loka-sambhavam  \  vdma-parsvat  tathd  Vishnum  loka-raksMrtham  Isvarah  \ 
yugdnte  chaiva  samprdpte  Rudram  Iso  'sryat  pralhur  ity  ddi  \  "This 
is  the  glorious  god,  the  beginning  of  all  existences,  undecaying,  who 
knows  the  formation  of  all  principles,  who  is  Pradhana  and  Purusha 
(or  the  principal  Purusha),  the  supreme ;  who,  the  lord,  created  from 
his  right  side  Brahma,  the  originator  of  the  worlds,  and  from  his  left 
side  Vishnu,  for  the  preservation  of  the  universe ;  and  when  the  end 
of  the  age  (yuga]  had  arrived,  the  mighty  lord  created  Rudra,"  etc. 

TJpamanyu  concludes  by  asking  these  boons,  viz.  that  his  devotion  to 
the  god  may  be  perpetual,  that  he  may  know  the  past,  the  present,  and 
the  future,  that  he  may  always  eat  food  cooked  with  milk  (kshlraudana) 
with  his  relation^,  and  that  they  may  ever  enjoy  the  near  presence 
(sannidhya)  of  Mahadeva  in  their  hermitage  (vv.  945  ff.).  The  god 
bestows  all  these  and  many  other  blessings,  and  disappears  (vv.  949  ff.). 

Having  heard  all  this  account  from  TTpamanyu,  Krishna  expresses  a 
desire  that  the  god  may  vouchsafe  to  him  a  similar  vision  and  the  like 
favour.  Upamanyu  promises  that  Mahadeva  shall  appear  to  Krishna 
in  six  months,  and  bestow  on  him  twenty-four  boons,  and  pays  him 
the  compliment  of  saying  that  any  of  the  gods  would  consider  it  as  a 
highly  laudable  act  to  have  an  interview  with  such  a  pious,  innocent, 
and  devout  person  as  he  (Krishna)  is  (vv.  964  ff.).  Krishna  is  then 
consecrated  by  the  Brahman  (973  ff.).  Equipped  with  a  staff,  shaved, 
clothed  with  rags,  anointed  with  ghee,  and  provided  with  a  girdle,  living 
for  one  month  on  fruits,  for  four  more  on  water,  standing  on  one  foot, 
with  his  arms  aloft,  he  at  length  obtained  a  glorious  vision  of  Mahadeva 
and  his  wife  (v.  978),  whom  all  the  gods  were  worshipping,  and 

<v 

among  them  Indra,  Yishnu  (the  delight  of  his  mother  Aditi),  and 
Brahma,  all  uttering  the  rathantara  sama  (S'atakratus  cha  lhagavdn 
Vishnus  chdditi-nandariah  \  Brahma  rathantaram  sdma  Irayanti  Bha- 
vdntike].  Krishna  then  describes  the  effect  of  this  vision  on  himself 
(vv.  997  ff.) :  , 

Purastad  dhishthitah  S'arvo  mamuslt  tridasesvarah  \  purastdd  dhishthi- 


OF  MAHADEVA,  AND  OBTAINS  BOONS  FROM  HIM.          195 

i 

tarn  drishtvd  mamesdnanchu  JBhdratt  \  sa-Prajdpati-S'akrdntam  jagad 
mum  ubhyudaikshata  \  iTcshitum  cha  Mahddevam  na  me  salctir  abhut  tadd  \ 
tato  mum  abravid  devah  " pasya  Krishna  vadasva  cha  \  tayd  [tvayd  ?~\ 
hy  drddhitas  chdham  $ata£o  't?ta  saftasrasah  \  tvat-samo  ndsti  me  Icaschit 
trishu  lokeshu  vai  priyah"  \  sirasd  vandite  deve  devlprltd  hy  Uma,  'bhavat  \ 
tato  'ham  abruvary  Sthdnum  stutam  Brahmddibhih  suraih  \  "  Before  me 
stood  S'arva,  the  lord  of  the  gods.  Beholding  Isana  standing  before  me, 
the  world  from  Prajapati  to  S'akra  (Indra)  gazed  upon  me.  I  had  no 
power  to  look  on  Mahadeva.  The  god  then  said  to  me,  'Behold, 
Krishna,  and  speak.  I  have  been  adored  by  thee  hundreds  and 
thousands  of  times.  There  is  no  one  in  the  three  worlds  so  dear  to  me 
as  thou.'  The  god  having  been  reverenced  by  obeisance,  the  goddess 
Uma  was  gratified.  I  then  said  to  Sthanu  (Mahadeva),  who  had  been 
praised  by  Brahma  and  the  rest  of  the  gods,"  etc. 

Krishna  proceeds  to  laud  Mahadeva  (vv.  1002-1018)  as  the  supreme 
Deity.  Mahadeva  then  says  (v.  1023) :  Vidmah  Krishna pardm  bhaktim 
asma.su  tava  satruhan  \  vriyatatn  utmanah  sreyah  pritir  hi  tvayi  me  pard  \ 
vrinlshvdshtau  varan  Krishna  ddtdsmi  tava  sattama  \  bruhi  Yddava- 
surdulu  ydn  ichhasi  sudurlabhdn  \  "We  know,  Krishna,  slayer  of  foes, 
thy  eminent  devotion  to  us.  Choose  what  is  most  advantageous  to  thee, 
for  my  love  for  thee  is  extreme.  Choose  eight  boons ;  I  will  give  them 
to  thee,  most  excellent  being.  Specify,  chief  of  the  Tadus,  those  boons 
which  are  most  difficult  to  obtain  which  thou  desirest."  Krishna 
then  asks  these  eight  boons:  (1)  steadfastness  in  righteousness,  (2) 
the  destruction  of  his  foes  in  battle,  (3)  eminent  renown,  (4)  the 
greatest  strength,  (5)  abstraction  (yoga],  (6)  amiability  (priyatvam), 
(7)  close  proximity  to  Mahadeva,  and  (8)  a  hundred  hundreds  of  sons, — 
all  of  which  were  accordingly  granted  by  Mahadeva.  Uma  next  offers 
him  his  choice  of  eight  more  boons,  and  he  selects  (1)  the  goodwill  of 
the  Brahmans,  (2)  the  favour  of  his  father,  (3)  a  hundred  sons,  (4) 
eminent  enjoyment,  (5)  the  affection  of  his  tribe,  (6)  the  favour  of  his 
mother,  (7)  tranquillity  of  mind,  and  (8)  ability.  These  boons  are 
granted  by  the  goddess,  who  superadds  sixteen,  thousand  wives  whose 
affection  he  should  retain,  and  several  other  blessings.  Mahadeva  and 
his  spouse  then  disappear,  and  Krishna  rSlates  to  Upamanyu  all  that 
has  happened  (v.  1034).  That  sage  then  'goes  on  to  tell  him  a  story 
about  a  rishi  called  Tandi,  who  had  formerly  worshipped  Mahadeva, 


196  KRISHNA  SUBMITS  TO  TtfE  CAPRICES  OF 

I 
in  the  Krita  age,  and  praised  him  -in  a  long  hymn  (which  is  given  w. 

1049-1103)  as  the  supreme  Deity  whom  even  Brahma,  Indra,  and 
Vishnu  did  not  perfectly  know,  vv.  1052  (Brahma  S'atakratur  Vishnur 
visvedevah  maharshayah  \  na  vidus  *vam  tu  tattvena  kuto  vetsydmahe 
vayam}.  These  words  appear  to  have  been  especially  gratifying  to  the 
god  (vv.  1105  ff.).  Tandi  had  then  come  to  TTpamanyVs  hermitage, 
and  recited  to  him  the  eleven  thousand  mystical  names  of  Mahadeva, 
which  TJpamanyu  repeated  to  Krishna  (vv.  1144  ff.).  This  hymn, 
existing  in  the  heart  of  Brahma,  was,  we  are  told  (w.  1287  ff.), 
declared  by  that  deity  to  Indra,  by  him  to  Mrityu  (Death),  by  him  to 
the  Rudras,  and  from  them  it  came  to  Tandi,  etc. 

A  little  further  on  (vv/1358  ff.)  we  are  told  that  TJpamanyu  ex- 
pressed himself  thus  to  Krishna  : 

Asulhaih  papakarma.no  ye  nardh  Tcalushllcritah  \  Isdnam  na  prapad- 
yante  tamo-rdjasa-vrittayah  \  Isvaram  samprapadyante  dvijah  bhdvita-bkd- 
vantih  \  sarvathd  vartamdno  'pi  yo  bhaktah  paramesvare  \  sadriso  'ranya- 
vdsdndm  munlndm  Ihdmtdtmandm  \  JJrahnatvam  Kesavatvam  cha  S'akra- 
tvam  vd  suraih  saha  \  trailokyasyddhipatyam  vd  tushto  Rudrah  pra- 
yacJihati  ityddi  \  "  Those  sinful  men  who  are  soiled  by  unhallowed 
(deeds)  do  not  seek  Isana,  living  under  the  dark  and  passionate  qualities. 
Brahmans  who  have  meditated  on  the  cause  [of  all  things]  seek  Isvara. 
The  man  who  is  devoted  to  Mahesvara — whatever  mode  of  life  he  fol- 
lows— is  equal  to  those  contemplative  munis  who  dwell  in  the  forests. 
Kudra,  when  he  is  gratified,  bestows  the  rank  of  Brahma,  or  of  Kesava 
(Kesava  is  a  name  of  Krishna),  or  of  Indra,  or  the  supreme  lordship 
of  the  three  worlds,  including  the  deities." 

In  a  later  part  of  the  Anusasana-parvan,  7402  ff.,  Krishna  relates 
to  Yudhishthira  the  benefits  which  had  resulted  to  himself  from  his 
patient  submission  to  the  caprices  and  freaks  of  the  irritable  Brahman 
Durvasas  (an  incarnation  of  S'iva,  as  it  is  stated  below ;  see  page  204), 
•who,  among  other  tricks,  had  yol*ed  Krishna's  wife  Rukmim  to  his 
car,  and  had  wounded  her  with  a  goad,  while  drawing  him  on  the 
road,  and  as  a  reward  of  Krishna's  patient  endurance  of  all  this  annoy- 
ance, had  offered  him  his  choice  of  boons,  and  had  promised  to  Rukmim 
that  she  should  be  eminertly  renowned  in  the  world,  and  the  most 
distinguished  of  the  sixteen  thousand  wives  of  Krishna,  whom  she 
should  worship.  The  Brahman  then  disappeared,  and  Krishna  per- 


DIJIIVASAS,  AND  OBTAINS  BOONS  FROM  HIM.  197 

t 

formed  an  TJpansu  rite,  i.e.  muttered  prayers,  with  his  wife.     Then 

entering  his  house  he  found  that  all  the  articles  which  Durvasas  had 
broken  or  burned,  were  replaced. 

Tudhishthira  then  says  to  Krishna  (w.  7458  ff.):  Durvdsasah prasdddt 
te  yat  tada  Madhusudana  \  avdptam  iha  mjndnam  tan  me  vydlchydtum 
arhasi  \  mahdlfhdgyancha  yat  tasya  ndmdni  cha  mahdtmanah  \  tattvato 
jndtum  ichhdmi  sarvam  matimatdm  vara  \  Vdsudevah  uvdcha  \  Santa  te 
klrtayishydmi  namaslcritya  Kapardine  \  yad  avdptam  mayd  rdjan  sreyo 
yach  chdrjitam  yasah  \  prayatah,  prdtar  utthdya  yad  adhlye  visdmpatB  \ 
prdnjalih  satarudrlyam  tan  me  nigadatah  srinu  \  Prajdpatis  tat  sasrije 
tapaso  'nte  mahdtapdh  \  S'ankaras  tv  asrijat  tdta  prajdh  sthtivara-jan- 
gamdh  \  ndsti  kinchit  param  bhutam  MahdSevdd  visdmpate  \  iha  trishv 
api  lokeshu  bhutdnam  pravaro  hi  sah  \  na  chaivotsahate  sthdtum  Icinchid 
agre  mahdtmanah  \  na  hi  Ihutam  samam  tena  trishu  lokeshu  vidyate  \ 
gandhendpi  hi  sangrdme  tasya  Icruddhasya  Satravah  \  msanjndh  hata-bhu- 
yishthdh  vepante  cha  patanti  cha  \  ghorancha  ninadam  tasya  Parjanya- 
ninadopamam  \  srutvd  vislryed  hridayam  devdndm  api  samyuge  \  ydmscha 
ghorena  rilpena  pasyet  Jcruddhah  pindka-dhrik  \  na  surdh  ndsurdh  loke  na 
gandharvdh  na  pannagdh  \  Icupite  sukham  edhante  tasnAnn  api  guhdgatdh  \ 
Prajdpates  tu  Dakshasya  yajato  vitate  Icratau  \  vivyddha  kupito  yajnarh 
nirbhayas  tv  abhavat  tada  \  dhanushd  vdnam  utsrijya  saghosham  vinandda 
cha  |  tena  sarma  kutah  sdntim  vishddam  lebhire  surdh  \  viddhe  cha  sahasd 
yajne  faipite  cha  Mahesvare  \  tenajyd-tala-ghoshena  sarve  lokdh  samdkuldh  [ 
babhuvur  avasdh  Pdrtha  vishedus  cha  survsurdh  \  upas  chukshubhire  chaiva 
chakampe  cha  vasundhard  \  vyadravan  giriryas  chdpi  dyauh  paphdla  cha 
sarvasah  \  andhena  tamasd  lokdh  prdvritdh  na  chakdsire  \  pranashtd  jyo- 
tishdm  bhds  cha  saha  $uryena  Bhdrata  \  bhrisam  bhltds  tatah  Sdntim 
chakruh  svastyayandni  cha  \  rishayah  sarva-bhutdndm  dtmanai  cha 
hitaishinah  \  tatah  so  'bhyadravad  devdn  Rudro  raudra-pardkramah  \ 
Bhagasya  nayane  kruddhah  prahdrena  vyd&dtayat  \  Pushdnam  chdbhi- 
dudrdva  pddena  cha  rushdnvitah  \  pyroddsam  bhakshayato  dasandms  cha 
vyasdtayat  \  tatah  pranemur  devds  te  vepamdnds  tu  S'ankaram  \  punas 
cha  sandadhe  Rudro  diptam  sunisitam  saram  \  Rudrasya  vikramam 
drishtvd  bhltdh  devdh  saharshibhih  \  tatah  prasddaydmasuh  sarve  te 
vibudhottamdh  \jepus  cha  satarudrlyam  fyvdh  kritvd  'njalim  tadd  \ 
samstuyamdnas  tridasaih  prasasdda  Mahe6v&rah  \  Rudrasya  bhdgam  yajne 
cha  visishtam  te  tv  akalpayan  \  bhayena  tridasdh  rdjan  iaranam  chapra- 


198  KRISHNA  CELEBEATES  THE 

pedire  \  tena  chaiva  hi  dushfena  (tushtena  ?}  sa  yajno  sandhito  'bhavat  \  yad 
yach  chdpahritam  tatra  tat  tathaiva  sajivayat  \  Asurdndm  purdny  dsams 
trim  vlryavatdm  divi  \  dyasam  rdjatam  chaiva  sauvarnam  api  chdparam  \ 
ndsakat  tdni  Maghavd  bhettum  sarvdyqdhair  api  \  atha  sarve  Mahdrudram 
jagmuh  iaranam  arditdh  \  tatah  uchur  mahdtmdno  devdh  sarve  samdgatdh  \ 
Rudra  raudrdh  bhavishyanti  pasavah  sarva-karmasu  \jahi  daitydn  saha 
pur  air  lokdfhs  trdyasva  mdnada  \  sa  tathoktas  tathety  uktvd  kritvd  Vish- 
num  sarottamam  \  salyam  Agnim  tathd  kritvd  punlcham  Vaivasvatam 
Yamam  \  veddn  kritvd  dhanuh  sarvdn  jydm  cha  sdvitrim  uttamdm  \  £rah- 
mdnam  sdrathim  Jcritvd  mniyujya  cha  sarvasah  \  triparvand  trisalyena 
Icdle  tdni  libheda  sah  \  sarendditya-varnena  Jcdldgni-sama-tejasd  \  te  'surdh 
sa-purds  tatra  dagdhdh  Rudsena  Bhdrata  \  tarn  chawdnka-gutam  drishtvd 
Idlam  panchasikham  punah  \  Umd  jijndsamdnd  vai  "  ko  'yam"  ity  abravlt 
tadd  |  asuyatas  cha  S'akrasya  vajrena  praharishyatah  \  sa  vajram  stambha- 
ydmdsa  tarn  bdhum  parigJiopamam  \  na  sambubudhire  chaiva  devds  tarn 
bhuvanesvaram  \  sa-prajdpatayah  sarve  tasmin  sumahatlsvare  \  tato  dhyd- 
tvd  tu  bhagavdn  Brahmd  tarn  amitaujasaw  \  ay  am  sreshthah  Hi  jndtvd 
vavande  tarn  TJmd-patim  \  tatah  prasddaydmdsur  Umdm  Budram  cha  te 
surah  \  babhuva  sa  tadd  bdhur  balahantur  yathd  purd  \  sa  chdpi  brdh- 
tnano  bhutvd  Durudsdh  ndma  vlryavdn  \  Dvdravatydm  mama  pure  chiram 
kdlam  updvasat  \  vipraTcdrdn  prayunlcte  sma  subahun  mania  vesniani  \ 
tan  uddratayd  chdham  chakshame  chdti-duhsahdn  \  sa  vai  Budrah  sa  cha 
S'ivah  so  'gnih  S'arvah  sa  sarva-jit  \  sa  vai  chendras  cha  Vdyus  cha  so 
'svinau  sa  cha  Vidyutah  \  sa  chqndramdh  sa  chesdnah  sa  Suryo  Varunas 
fha  sah  [  sa  kdlah  so  'ntako  mrityuh  sa  tamo  rdtry  ahdni  cha  \  mdsdr- 
dha-mdsdh  ritavah  sandhye  samvatsaraS  cha  sah  \  sa  dhdta  sa  vidhdtd 
cha  visvakarmd  sa  sarva-vit  \  nakshatrdni  grahds^  chaiva  diso  'tha  vidisas 
tathd  |  visva-murtir  ameydtmd  bhagavdn  amara-dyutih  \  ekadhd  cha 
dvidhd  chaiva  bahudhd  cha  sa  eva  hi  \  tathd  sahasradhd  chaiva  tathd 
sata-sahasrasah  \  idrisah  sa  Mahddevo  bhumah I92  sa  lhagavdn  ajah  \  na 
hi  salcydh  gundh  vaktum  api  varsha-$atair  api  \  Yudhishthira  mahdbdho 
mahdlhdgyam  mahdtmanah  \  Rudrdya  (?)  bahurupdya  bahu-ndmne 
nibodha  me  \  Vadanty  Agnim  Mahddevam  tathd  Sthdnum  Mahesvaram  \ 
ekdksham  tryambakam  chaiva  visva-rupam  S'ivam  tathd  \  dve  tanu  tasy,a 

192  See  BShtlingk  and  Eoth,  s[\.  Ihuman,  vol.  v.,  p.  1660,  where  several  passages 
of  the  Bhagavata  Purana  are  referred  to  in  which  a  kindred  word,  bhuman,  is  applied 
83  an  epithet  to  Krishna.  See  also  page  347  of  the  same  vol. 


GLORY  OF  MAHADEVA.  199 

devasya  Irdhmandh  vedajndh  viduh  \  ghordih  anydm  sivam  anydm  te 
tanu  lahudhd  punah  \  ugrd  ghord  tanur  yd  sd  so  'gnir  vidyut  sa  bhd- 
sTcarah  \  sivd  saumyd  cha  yd  tv  asya  dharmas  tv  dpo  'tha  chandramdh  \ 
dtmano  'rdham  tu  tasydgnih  sotyo  'rdham  punar  uchyate  \  brahma- 
charyaih  charaty  eJcd  sivd  yd  'sya  tanus  tathd  \  yd  'sya  ghoratamd 
murtir  jagat  mmharate  tadd 192*  |  Isvaratvdd  mahatvdch  cha  Mahesvarah 
iti  smritah  \  yad  nirdahati  yat  tlkshno  yad  ugro  yat  pratdpavdn  \ 
mdrhsasonita-majjddo  yat  tato  Eudrah  uchyate  \  devdndm  sumahdn  yach 
cha  yach  chdsya  vishayo  mahdn  \  yach  cha  visvatn  mahat  pdti  Mahddevas 
tatah  smritah  \  dhumra-rupam  cha  yat  tasya  dhurjatlty  ata  uchyate  \ 
samedhayati  yad  nityaih  sarvdn  vai  sarva-karmalhih  \  manushydn  sivam 
anvichhams  tasmdd  eva  S'ivah  smritah  \  ityadi 

Anusasana-parvan,  v.  7458  ff. — Yudhishthira  says  to  Krishna :  "  Thou 
oughtest,  Madhusudana,  to  expound  to  me  that  knowledge  which  thou 
then  obtainedst  by  the  favour  of  Durvasas.  I  wish,  most  eminent  of 
the  wise,  to  know  exactly  all  the  grandeur  of  that  great  Being,  and  his 
names.  Vasudeva  replies :  JTes,  I  shall  declare  to  thee,  after  bowing 
down  before  the  god  with  the  spirally-braided  hair  (Mahadeva),  the 
happiness  which  was  obtained  by  me,  and  the  glory  which  was  acquired. 
Hear  from  me,  0  king,  the  S'atarudriya,  which,  when  risen  in  the  morn- 
ing, I  intently  repeat  with  joined  hands.  The  great  devotee,  Prajapati, 
created  that  [prayer193]  at  the  end  of  his  austerity.  S'ankara  has 
created  [all]  beings,  stationary  and  moving.  There  is  nothing,  0  king, 
which  exists  superior  to  Mahadeva ;  ^for  he  is  the  most  excellent  of 
beings  in  all  these  three  worlds.  And  nothing  can  stand  before  this 
great  deity :  for  there  is  no  being  like  him  in  the  three  worlds.  In 
battle,  when  he  is  even  in  the  slightest  degree  (lit.  'even  by  a  scent') 
incensed,  his  enemies  tremble  and  fall  senseless,  and  mostly  slain. 
And  the  heart  even  of  the  gods  would  be  withered  in  battle,  on  hearing 
his  dreadful  voice,  resembling  the  sound  of  Parjanya  (i.e.  of  the 
thunder  clouds).  And  neither  gods,  nor  Asuras,  nor  Gandharvas,  nor 
Pannagas,  nor  any  one  whom  the  Holder  of  the  bow  (Mahadeva),  in-* 

censedT,  looks  upon  with  his  direful  aspect,  can  enjoy  tranquillity  when 

* 
,  192*  "With  this  and  the  preceding  lines  compare  Dronap.,  9632  ff. 

193  It  is  part  of  the  White  Yajur  Veda  (Vajasaneyi  Sanhita).  See  further  on, 
chapter  iii.,  section  second.  It  is  not  reproduced  m  the  passage  before  us.  Compare 
vol.  iii.  of  this  work,  on  the  mode  in  which  the  Veda  is  conceived  to  have  been 
produced. 


200      MAHADEVA  DISTURBS  DAKSHA'^S  SACRIFICE,  KNOCKS 

he  is  angry,  even  though  they  hide  themselves.  When  the  Prajapati 
Daksha  was  sacrificing,  and  his  ceremonial  was  arranged,  Mahadeva  in 
his  wrath  pierced  the  sacrifice,  and  was  then1  devoid  of  fear,  and  dis- 
charging an  arrow  with  his  bow,  he  Buttered  a  loud  shout.  The  gods 
received  from  this  no  pleasure  or  tranquillity,  but  rather  dejection. 
And  forthwith,  the  sacrifice  being  pierced,  and  MahesVara  being  in- 
censed, all  the  worlds  were  disturbed  at  the  sound  o'f  his  bowstring ; 
both  gods  and  Asuras  became  helpless  and  cast  down ;  the  waters  were 
troubled,  and  the  earth  shook ;  the  mountains  were  dissolved ;  the 
sky  was  rent  in  all  directions ;  enveloped  in  thick  darkness,  the  worlds 
did  not  shine,  and  the  light  of  the  luminaries  and  of  the  sun  was 
quenched.  Being  greatly  planned,  the  rishis  then  sought  to  appease 
Mahadeva,  and  recited  texts  to  avert  his  anger,  seeking  their  own 
welfare,  and  that  of  all  creatures.  Rudra  of  dreadful  power  then 
ran  up  to  the  gods,  and,  in  his  rage,  knocked  out  the  eyes  of  Bhaga 
with  a  blow,  and,  incensed,  assaulted  Pushan  with  his  foot,  and  knocked 
out  his  teeth,  as  he  was  eating  the  pur^pdasa  offering.194  The  gods 

194  For  the  older  story  about  Bhaga  and  Pushan,  see  Indische  Studien,  ii.  306  f. ; 
and  Taittirlya  Sanhita,  ii.  6,  8,  3  f.,  partially  quoted  in  the  fifth  vol.  of  this  work,  p. 
476,  note  on  p.  178,  line  6.  The  entire  passage  is  as  follows:  Devah  vai  yajnnd 
Rudram  antar  ayan  \  sa  yajnam  avidhyat  \  tarn  devah  abhisamagachhanta  "  Icalpatam 
nah  idarn"  iti  \  te  'bruvan  "  svishtain  vai  nah  idam  bhavishyati  yad  imam  radhayish- 
yamah"  iti  \  tat  svishtakritah  svishtakrittvam  \  tasya  aiiddham  nirakrintan  (4) 
yavena  sammitam  \  tasmad  yava-matram  avadyet  \  yaj  jyayo  'vadyed  ropayet  tad 
yajnasya  \  yad  upa  cha  strintyad  abhi  cha  gharayed  ubhayatah  samsvayi  kuryat  \ 
avaddya  abhigharayati  \  dvih  santpadQate  \  dvipad  yajamanah  \  pratishthityai  \  yat 
tiraschfnamatiharedanabhividdham  yajnasya  abhividhyet  \  agrena  pariharati  tlrthena 
eva  pariharati  \  tat  Pus/me  paryaharan  tat  (5)  Pusha  prasya  data  'runat  \  tasmat 
Pusha  prapishta-bJiagah  \  adantako  hi  \  tarn  devah  abruvan  "vi  vai  ayam  ardhi  \ 
aprasitriyo  vai  ayam  abhud"  iti  \  tad  Brihaspataye  paryaharan  \  so  'bibhed  Brihas- 
patir  "itthain  vava  sya  artim  arishyati"  iti\sa  etam  mantram  apasyat  \  "The 
gods  excluded  Rudra"  [in  the  form  of  Svishtakrit  Agni,  Comm.]  "from  the  sacrifice. 
He  pierced  the  sacrifice  [with  an  arrow].  The  gods  came  together  to  him,  [and  said,] 
'  Let  this  [rite]  of  ours  be  [again]  rectified.'  They  [i.e.  certain  wise  gods,  according 
to  the  Commentator]  said,  '  If  we  propitjate  him,  this  [rite]  of  ours  will  be  well 
Sacrificed  (svishta).'  It  is  from  this  that  the  Svishtakrit  insures  the  due  performanc-o 
of  the  rite."  [According  to  Professor  "Weber,  Ind.  Stud.,  ix.  217,  the  Svishtakrit  is 
the  portion  of  the  sacrifice  destined  for  Agni  Svishtakrit.]  "  They  cut  off  the  part 
which  had  been  pierced  to  the  extent  of  a  barleycorn.  4.  Wherefore  let  the  adhvaryn 
priest  cut  off  [the  priis'itra  portion]  only  to  the  extent  of  a  barleycorn.  If  he  cut  off 
more  than  this,  he  will  break  thatf  off  from  the  sacrifice.  If  he  should  both  spread 
[ghee]  underneath  and  spriakle  [gh'ee]  above,  he  would  cause  the  oblation  to  become 
swollen  on  both  sides.  He  is  therefore,  after  cutting  off  [the  pras'itra],  only  to 


OUT  BHAGA'S  EYES  2LND  PUSH  AN' S  TEETH,  ETC.  201 

» 
trembling  then  made  obeisance  to  S'ankara,  and  he  again  fitted  on  the 

string  the  glittering,  well-whetted  arrow.  Beholding  the  prowess 
of  Rudra,  the  gods,  with  Ihe  rishis,  terrified,  propitiated  him,  and  with 

sprinkle  [ghee]  above  it.  To  do  this  twice  is  proper  [for  the  sacrificer  has  two  feet], 
in  order  that  it  may  succeed.  If  he  hands  [the  brahman's  share]  to  him  across  [the 
altar],  he  will  pierce  that  part  of  the  sacrifice  which  is  uninjured ;  whereas  if  he 
reaches  it  to  him  iif  front,  he  does  so  in  the  proper  direction.  They  handed  that 
[portion]  to  Pushan.  Eating  ]i,  he  broke  his  teeth.  Wherefore  Pushan  has  a  portion 
of  ground  meal  offered  to  him ;  for  he  is  toothless.  The  gods  said  of  him,  '  he  has 
come  to  grief ;  he  has  become  unfit  for  the  pras'itra.'  They  handed  it  to  Brihaspati. 
He  was  afraid,  saying,  '  In  this  way  shall  one  incur  misfortune.'  He  saw  this  text,"  etc. 

I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Weber  for  a  German  translation  of  this  passage,  which 
has  enabled  me  to  correct  and  improve  my  own.  He  remarks  that  the  reason  why 
the  pras'itra  broke  Pushan' s  teeth  was,  that  it  was  ^Rudriya '  (see  the  passage  from 
the  S'atap.  Br.,  i.  7,  4,  15  f.,  adduced  at  the  end  of  a  following  quotation),  i.e.  the 
portion  of  the  oblation  struck  by  Rudra' s  shot.  This  effect  of  it  must  be  obviated  by 
the  use  of  a  text.  Professor  Weber  thinks  that  arunat  (followed  by  tasmat],  in  the 
above  passage,  must  stand  for  arunak  (though  the  root  ruj  is  nowhere  else  conjugated 
in  the  seventh  conjugation),  and  compares  Taitt.  S.,  vii.  4,  9,  1,  asrid  dvabhyam 
for  asriy  (see  Ind.  Stud.,  viii.  54,  note) ;  Kaus'.  39,  nyat  for  nyak;  sammad-anna  for 
samyag-ajna,  Dhammap.  verse  57  ;*samsridbhih  from  samsrip,  Taitt.  Br.,  i.  8,  1,  1; 
nadbhyah  from  nap,  R.  V.,  x.  60,  6 ;  adbhih,  adbhyah  from  ap;  samyat  te,  Taitt.  S., 
i.  2,  7,  1  (compare  Weber's  Indische  Streifen,  i.  127,  note  5). 

The  S'atap.  Br.  i.  7,  4,  5,  refers  to  the  same  story  in  the  sequel  of  a  passage  which 
has  already  been  given  above,  p.  45.  The  continuation  is  as  follows :  5  |  Te  ha 
uchur  "  upajanlta  yatha  idam  na  amuya  asat  kanlyo  ha  ahuter  yatha  idam  sy ad" 
Hi  |  6  |  te  ha  uchur  "  Bhajaya  enad  dakshinatah  asitiaya  pariharata  \  tad  Bhagah 
prasishyatitad  yatha  ahutarn  eva  bhavishyati''  iti\  tad  Bhagaya  dakshinatah  asinaya 
paryajahruh  \  tad  Bluigo  \ekshanchakre  \  tasya  akshini  nirdadaha  \  tatha  in  nunafh 
tad  asa  \  tasmad  ahur  " andho  Bhagah"  iti  \  7  \  te  ha  uchur  "no  nv  atra  asamat  \ 
Pushne enat pariharata"  iti  \  tat  Pushne  paryajahruh  \  tat  Pushd  prasa  \  tasya dato 
nirjaghana  \  tatha  in  nunam  tad  asa  \  tasmad  ahur  "adantakah  Pusha"  iti  \  tasmad 
yam  Pushne  charui/i  kurvanti  prapishtanam  eva  kurvanti  yatha  adantakaya  evam  \  5 
"  They  said,  '  Take  care  that  this  may  not  be  lost ;  but  that  it  may  be  less  than  the 
oblation.'  6.  They  said, '  Present  it  to  Bhaga,  sitting  on  the  right  side ;  he  will  eat  it ; 
that  shall  be  as  if  it  were  offered.'  They  presented  it  to  Bhaga  sitting  on  the  right 
side ;  he  looked  at  it ;  it  burned  his  eyes.  That  truly  happened  so.  Therefore  they 
Jay,  '  Bhaga  is  blind.'  7.  They  said,  '  Let  it  not  be  so  tranquilized.  Present  it  to 
Pushan.'  Pushan  ate  it;  it  knocked  out  his  teeth.  That  verily  so  happened. 
Wherefore  they  say,  '  Pushan  is  toothless.'*  Hence  the  cooked  oblation  they  present 
to  Pushan  is  of  ground  materials." 

In  the  sequel  of  this  passage  it  is  said,  i.  7,  4,  9 :  Sa  yat  prasitram  avadyati  yad 
eva  atra  avidd ham  yajnasya  yad  Rudriyam  tad  eva  etad  rvrminiite  (bahih  knroti  nish- 
kanshati,  Comm.)  |  "  The  pras'itra  which  he  cuts  off,  the  part  of  the  sacrifice  which 
was  pierced,  which  is  connected  with  Rudra, — that  he  separates."  And  further  on,  i. 
7,  4,  15:  Sat  pramati  \  "Agnes  tva  asyena  pros' nami"  iti  \  na  vai  Agnim  kinchana 
pinasti  \  tatha  u  ha  enam  etad  na  hinasti  |  16  |  tad  na  dadbhih  khadet  \  "  na  id  me 
idam  Rudriyam  dato  hinasad"  iti  \  tasmad  na  dadbhih  khadet  [  15.  "  He  eats  that, 


202  MAHADEVA  IS  APPEASED  BY  HAVING 

joined  hands,  muttered  the  S'atarudriya.  Being  thus  lauded  by  the 
gods,  Mahesvara  became  pleased ;  and  they  apportioned  to  him  a  dis- 
tinguished share  in  the  sacrifice,  and,  through  fear,  resorted  to  him  as 

[saying],  '  I  eat  thee  with  Agni's  mouth.'  '  Nothing  destroys  Agni.  So  this  does  not 
destroy  him.  16.  Let  no  one  eat  it  with  his  teeth,  [thinking],  'Lest  this,  which  is 
connected  with  Rudra,  destroy  my  teeth.'  "Wherefore  let  no  one  eat  it  with  his  teeth." 

The  following  is  a  passage  from  the  preceding  section  of  the  same  Brahmana: 
l.  7,  3,  1 :  Yajnena  vai  devah  divam  upodakraman  \  atha  yo  'yam  devah  pasunam 
tshte  sa  iha  ahlyata  \  tasmad  vastavyah  ity  ahuh  \  vastau  hi  tad  ahlyala  2  j  *« 
yena  eva  devah  divam  upodakramanis  tena  tt  eva  archantah  sramyantas  cheruh  \ 
atha  yo  'yam  devah  pasunam  Ishte  yah  iha  ahlyata  (3)  sa  aikshata  " aha  asya 
ha  antaryanty  u  ma  yajnad"  iti  \  so  'nuchehafcrama  \  sa  ayataya  uttaratah  upotpede] 
sa  esha  svishtakritah  kalah  \  4  |  te  devah  abruvan  "  ma  visrakshlr "  iti  \  "  te  vai 
ma  yajnad  ma  'ntargata  ahubim  me  kalpayata"  iti  \  "tathii"  iti  \  sa  samabrihat 
sa  na  asyat  sa  na  kanchana  ahinat  \  5  \  te  devah  abruvan  "yavanti  no  havlmshi 
grihltany  abhuvan  sarvesham  tesham  hutam  upajanlta  yatha  'smai  ahutim  kalpa- 
yama"  iti  \  6  |  te  'dhvaryum  abruvan  "yathapurvam  havlmshy  abhigharaya  \  ekas- 
mai  avadanaya  punar  apyayaya  \  ayatayamani  kuru  tatah  ekaikam  avadanam 
avadya''  iti  \  7  |  so'dhvaryur  yathapurvam havlnishy  abhyagharayad  ekasmai avada- 
naya punar  apyayayad  ayatayamany  akarot  tatah  ekaikam  avadanam  avadyat  \ 
1.  "By  sacrifice  the  gods  ascended  to  the  sky.  Now  the  god  who  rules  over  cattle  was 
excluded  here.  Hence  men  call  him  Vastavya  ;  for  he  was  excluded  [by  remaining] 
on  the  sacrificial  ground  (yastu).  2.  The  gods  went  on  worshipping  and  toiling  with 
that  whereby  they  had  ascended  to  the  sky.  Now,  the  god  who  rules  over  cattle)  and 
was  here  excluded,  (3)  perceived  that  the  other  gods  were  excluding  him  from  the 
sacrifice.  He  followed  them,  and  rose  up  on  the  north  with  ....  This  is  the  time 
of  the  Svishtakrit.  4.  The  gods  said  to  him,  'Do  not  disturb  (the  sacrifice).'  [He 
rejoined,]  '  Do  not  exclude  me  from  the  sacrifice  ;  give  me  an  oblation.'  They  agreed. 
He  kept  together,  and  did  not  scatter,  the  materials  of  the  sacrifice,  or  injure 
anything.  5.  The  gods  said,  '  Take  notice  of  all  the  offerings  which  have  been  pre- 
sented, that  we  may  form  an  oblatton  for  him.'  6.  They  said  to  the  Adhvaryu, 
'  Sprinkle  the  oblations  in  order  with  butter ;  and  again  replenish  each  fragment. 
Make  them  fresh ;  then  cut  off  each  part.'  7.  The  Adhvaryu  accordingly  sprinkled 
the  oblations  in  order  with  butter,  replenished  each  fragment,  made  them  fresh,  and 
divided  all  the  parts  from  each  other."  * 

The  Bhagavata  Purfina,  referred  to  by  Bb'htlingk  and  Roth,  s.  v.  Bhaga  and 
Pushan,  has  the  following  verses  on  these  gods :  iv.  5,  20  |  Bhagasya  netre  bhagavan 
pdtitasya  rusha  bhuvi  \  ujjahara  sadasstho  'kshna  yah  sapantam  asusuchat  \  21  [ 
Pushnas  chapatayad  dantan  Ealingasya  yatha  Balah  \  S'apyamane  garimani  yo'hasad 
darsayan  datah  \  "  The  god  (Mahadeva}  in  the  assembly  plucked  out  the  eyes  of 
Bhaga,  whom  in  his  rage  he  had  felled  to  the  ground,  because  with  his  eye  he  kad 
made  a  sign  to  [Daksha]  who  was  cursing  [Mahadeva].  21.  And  he  knocked  out  the 
teeth  of  Pushan  (as  Bala  had  done  to  the  king  of  Kalinga),  because,  when  the  great 
god  was  being  cursed,  he  had  laughed,  showing  his  teeth."  vi.  6, 41  |  Pusha  'nap.at- 
yah  pishtado  bhagna-danto  'bhavat  pura  \  yo  'sau  Dakshaya  kupitam  jahasa  vivrita- 
dvijah  |  "  Pushan  formerly  became  childless,  an  eater  of  ground  food,  toothless,  because 
he  had  laughed  with  his  teeth  disclosed  at  [Mahadeva],  who  was  incensed  against 
Daksha." 


A  PORTION  OF  THE  SACRIFICE  ALLOTTED  TO  HIM.        203 

i 
their  refuge.     He  then  became  pleaded  and  rectified  the  sacrifice,  and 

whatever  was  removed  he  restored  to  life  as  it  had  been  before. 

"  There  were  in  the  sky  three  cities  of  the  valorous  Asuras,  one  of  iron, 
another  of  silver,  and  a  third  of  gold,195  which  Maghavan  (Indra)  could 
not  demolish,  with  all  his  weapons.  Then  all  the  great  gods,  distressed, 
went  to  the  gfeat  Eudra  as  their  refuge,  and.  said  to  him,  after  they 
were  assembled  :  '  Hudra,  there  shall  be  victims  devoted  to  thee  in  all 
the  sacrifices.  Bestower*  of  honour,  destroy  the  Daityas  with  their 
cities,  and  deliver  the  worlds.'  He,  being  thus  addressed,  said,  '  So  be 
it ; '  and  making  Vishnu  his  arrow,  Agni  its  barb,  Yama,  the  son  of 
Vivasvat,  its  feather,  all  the  Vedas  his  bow,  and  the  excellent  Savitri 
(the  Grayatri)  his  bowstring,  and  having  appointed  Brahma  his 
charioteer,196  he  in  due  time  pierced  through  these  cities  with  a  three- 
jointed  three-barbed  arrow,  of  the  colour  of  the  sun,  and  in  fierceness 
like  the  fire  which  burns  up  the  world.  These  Asuras  with  their 
cities  were  there  burnt  up  by  Rudra.197  Again,  beholding  him  a  child 
in  the  lap,  with  five  locks,  19i  lima,  desiring  to  know,199  said,  'Who  is 

195  See  the  second  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  378  ff.,  and  the  Karna-parvan  of  the  M.Bh. 
vv.  1402  ff.  below. 

196  See  the  story  from  the  Karua-parvan,  cited  helow,  vv.  1515  ff. 

197  For  the  older  forms  of  this  story,  see  the  second  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  380-384. 
193  Like  an  ascetic,  according  to  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  *.  v.  panchasikha. 

199  Or,  is  the  proper  reading  jijnasamanan,  and  the  sense  this :  "  Uraa  said  to  [the 
gods]  who  were  inquiring,  '  Who  is  this  ?'"  There  is  a  parallel  passage  in  the  D rona- 
parvan,  v.  9575,  which  throws  some  light  on  the  one  before  us :  Purani  dagdhavantam 
tarn  devl yata  pravlkshitum  \  balam  ankagatam  Tcritva  svayam  panchasikham  punah  \ 
Uma  jijnasamana  vai  "Aro'  yam"  ity  abravit  swan  \  asuyatas  cha  S'akrasya  vajrena 
praharishyatah  \  bahum  savajram  tarn  tasya  kruddhasyastambhayat  prabhuh  \ 
prahasya  bhagavavams  turnam  sarva-lohesvaro  vibhuh  \  tatah  saihstambhita-bhujah 
8'akro  deva-ganair  vritah  \  jtigama  sa-suras  turnam  Brahmanam  prabhum  avyayam  \ 
te  tarn  pranamya  sirasa  prochuh  pranjalayas  tada  \  kimapy  ankagatam  Brahman 
Parvatyah  bhutam  adbhutam  \  bala-rupa-dharam  drishtva  nasmabhir  abhivaditah  \ 
tasmat  team  prashtum  ichhamo  nirjitah  yena  vai  vayam  \  ayudhyata  hi  balena  lllaya 
sa-purandarah  \  "The  goddess  (Uma)  went  to  see  him  when  he  had  burnt  the  cities, 
having  again  placed  the  child  with  five  locks  in  her  lap.  She  told  the  gods,  who 
inquired  [should  we  read,  jijasamanan  ?  though  none  of  the  printed  copies  read  so] 
'  Who  is  this  ? '  And  the  divine  lord,  master  of  all  the  worlds,  all-pervading,  with  a 
smile,  instantly  paralyzed  the  arm  and  thunderbolt  of  Indra,  who  showed  ill-will,  and 
in  Jlis  anger  was  about  to  smite  with  the  thunderbolt.  Indra,  his  arm  having  been 
paralyzed,  immediately  went  with  the  gods  to  Brahma,  the  imperishable  lord ;  and 
bowing  with  their  heads,  with  joined  hands,  they  said :  '  0  Brahma,  we  have  seen 
in  the  lap  of  Parvatl,  a  wonderful  being  bearing  the  form  of  a  child ;  and  we  have 
not  saluted  him.  Wherefore  we  desire  to  ask  thee  who  is  the  child  by  whom  we, 
ncluding  Indra,  have  been  conquered,  as  if  in  play,  and  without  any  fight.'  " 


204          CELEBRATION  OF  MAHADEVA  :  HIS  TWO  BODIES. 

< 
this  ? '     And  when  Indra,  envious,  was  about  to  smite  him  (the  child) 

with  the  thunderbolt,  he  stayed  the  thunderbolt,  and  paralyzed  that  arm 
resembling  a  club.  None  of  the  gods,  including  Prajapati,  understood 
the  lord  of  the  worlds,  [existing]  in  that  most  mighty  deity  [in  the 
form  of  an  infant].  Then  the  divine  Brahma,  meditating  on  that 
being  of  boundless  glory,  and  knowing  that  he  was  s*upreme,  adored 
the  lord  of  TJma.  Then  these  gods  propitiated  Uma  and  Rudra ;  and 
the  arm  of  the  slayer  of  hosts  became  as  before.  And  again,  Mahadeva, 
becoming  a  powerful  Brahman,  by  name  Durvasas,  dwelt  a  long  time 
in  my  city  Dvaravati.  He  practised  very  many  perversities  in  my 
house,  which,  though  difficult  to  support,  I,  through  generosity, 
endured.  He  is  Rudra,  he"  is  S'iva,  he  is  Agni,  he  is  S'arva,  the  all-con- 
quering ;  he  is  Indra,  he  is  Vayu,  he  is  the  Asvins,  he  is  the  lightning, 
he  is  the  moon,  he  is  Isana,  he  is  Surya,  he  is  Yaruna,  he  is  time,  he 
is  Death  the  ender,  he  is  darkness,  and  night,  and  the  days,  he  is  the 
months,  and  the  half  months,  and  the  seasons,  the  morning  and  evening 
twilight,  and  the  year.  He  is  Dhatri,  and  Vidhatri,  Visvakarman,  the 
all-knowing,  the  constellations,  the  planets,  the  regions  [or  quarters], 
and  intermediate  regions  or  [points  of  the  compass]  ;  universal-formed, 
immeasurable  in  essence,  divine,  of  undecaying  splendour.  He  is 
simple,  twofold,  manifold,  a  thousand-fold,  and  a  hundred-thousand- 
fold. Such  is  Mahadeva,  the  vast,  the  divine  unborn  being;  his 
qualities  cannot  be  declared  in  a  hundred  years."  Krishna  proceeds 
uninterruptedly  at  the  beginning  of  a  new  section  :  "  Large-armed 
Yudhishthira,  understand  from  me  the  greatness  of  the  glorious,  mul- 
tiform, many-named  Rudra.  They  call  Mahadeva  Agni,  Sthanu, 
Mahesvara,  One-eyed,  Tryambaka,  the  universal-formed,  and  S'iva. 
Brahmans  versed  in  the  Veda  know  two  bodies  of  this  god,  one  awful, 
one  auspicious ;  20°  and  these  two  bodies  again  have  many  forms.  The 
dire  and  awful  body  is  fire,  lightning,  the  sun.  The  auspicious  and 
beautiful  body  is  virtue,  water,  and  the  moon.  The  half  of  his  essence 
is  fire,  and  the  moon  is  called  the  [other]  half.  The  one,  which"  is 
his  auspicious  body,  practises  chastity :  while  the  other,  which  is  his 
most  dreadful  body,  destroys  the  world.  From  his  being  lord  (Isvara) 

and  great  (mahat),  he  is  cabled  Mahesvara.     Since  he  consumes,  since 

<• 

200  in  vaj.  si(  T>  g,  Agni  is  said  to  have  three  bodies.    See  the  second  volume  of 
this  work,  p.  381,  note. 


S'IS'UPALA  OBJECTS  TO  THE  HONOUR  SHOWN  TO  KRISHNA.   205 

lie  is  fiery,  fierce,  glorious,  an  eater  of  flesh,  blood,  and  marrow, — 
he  is  called  Rudra.  As  he  is  the  greatest  of  the  gods,  as  his  domain 
is  wide,  and  as  he  preserves  the  vast  universe, — he  is  called  Mahadeva. 
From  his  smoky  colour,  he  is  called  Dhurjati.  Since  he  constantly 
prospers  all  men  in  all  their  acts,  seeking  their  welfare  (siva),  he  is 
therefore  called'S'iva,"  etc.,  etc.  9 

In  the  Bhishma-parvan  (vv.  793  if.)  Krishna  is  introduced  as  recom- 
mending Arjuna  to  worship  the  goddess  Durga  : 

Sanjayah  uvdcha  I  Dhdrtardshtram  lalam  drishtvd  yuddhdya  sa- 
mupasthitam  \  Arjunasya  hitdrthdya  Krishna  vachanam  abravlt  \  S'rl- 
bhagavdn  uvdcha  \  S'uchir  bhutvd  mahdbdho  sangrdmdlhimukhe  sthitah  \ 
pardjaydya  satrundm  Durgd-stotram  udlrayH  \  Sanjayah  uvdcha  \  evam 
uMo  'rjunah  sankhye  Fdsudevena  dhlmatd  \  avatlrya  rathdt  Pdrthah 
stotram  aha  kritdnjalih  \ 

"  Beholding  the  host  of  Dhritarashtra  come  near  to  the  conflict, 
Krishna,  in  the  interest  of  Arjuna,  addressed  to  him  these  words : 
'  Having  purified  thyself,  0  large-armed  hero,  standing  in  front  of  the 
battle,  utter  a  hymn  to  Durga  for  the  overthrow  of  thine  enemies.' 
Arjuna,  being  thus  addressed  in  battle  by  the  wise  Yasudeva,  descend- 
ing from  his  chariot,  uttered  a  hymn  with  joined  hands." 

III.  In  the  passage  which  I  have  quoted  above  (p.  169,  note  167) 
from  Professor  "Wilson,  it  is  remarked  that  in  some  places  of  the  Maha- 
bharata  the  divine  nature  of  Krishna  is  disputed  or  denied.  An 
instance  of  this  denial  is  to  be  found  in  the  following  passage  of  the 
Sabha-^M'van,  in  which  S'isupala,  prince  of  the  Chedis,  is  introduced  as 
objecting  to  the  divine  honours  which  had  been  paid  to  Krishna,  and 
as  ultimately  suffering,  the  penalty  of  his  proud  and  contemptuous 
impiety  at  the  hands  of  the  incarnate  deity. 

Yudhishthira  having  resolved  to  perform  the  Rajasuya  sacrifice  (Sabha- 
parvan,  v.  1211),  is  joined  by  Krishna,  who  is  designated  as  Hari,  the 
rishi,  the  ancient,  identified  with  gthe  Veda,  invisible  to  those  who 
krfbw  him,  the  highest  of  things  moving  and  stationary,  the  source 
and  destroyer  of  all  things,  the  lord  of  the  past,  the  future,  and  the 
present  (v.  1213:  Athaivam  Iruvatdm  evam  teshdm  alhydyayau  Harih  \ 
rishih  purdm  veddtmd  'drisyas  chaiva  vijdftatdm  \  jagatas  tasthushdm 
sreshthah  pralhavas  chdvyayas  (chapyaya$  ?)  chu  ha  \  bhuta-bhavya- 
bhavan-ndlhah  Kesavah  kesi-sudanah}.  Numerous  kings  assembled  to 


206    S'IS'UP ALA'S  GROUNDS  FOR  REFUSING  HONOUR  TO  KRISHNA. 

witness  the  celebration  (vv.  1260  ?ff.).  On  this  occasion  Bhishma  pro- 
posed that,  apart  from  the  customary  presents  bestowed  on  all  the 
kings,  Krishna  should  be  singled  out  as  the  most  eminent  of  the  chiefs 
to  receive  gifts  indicative  of  his  superiority  (vv.  1333  ff.). 

Sabha-parvan,  1333  if. : — Esha  hy  eshdm  samastdndm  tejo-lala-pard- 
kramaih  \  madhye  tapann  w&bh&tijyotwhdm  iva  bhdsJcarah  \  asuryam  iva 
suryena  nirvdtah  iva  vayund 201  |  hhdsitam  hldditam  chaiva  Krishnene- 
dam  sado  hi  nah  \  tasmai  Shlshmdbhyanujndtah  Sahadevah  pratapavdn  \ 
upajahre  'tha  vidhivad  Vdrshneydydrghyam  uttamam  \  pratijagrdha  tat 
Krishnah  sdstra-dishtena  karmand  \  S'isupalas  tu  tarn  pujdm  Vdsudeve 
na  chakshame  \  "For  he,  by  his  energy,  force  and  valour,  appears  shining 
in  the  midst  of  all  these  princes,  like  the  sun  among  the  luminaries. 
This  assembly  of  ours  is  enlightened  and  gladdened  by  Krishna,  as  a 
sunless  place  is  by  the  sun,  and  a  windless  spot  is  by  the  wind.  Com- 
missioned by  Bhishma,  the  majestic  Sahadeva  then  presented  in  due 
form  to  Yarshneya  (Krishna)  a  most  excellent  offering,  which  the  latter 
received  with  the  act  prescribed  by  the^sastra.  But  S'isupala  could 
not  endure  that  honour  shown  to  Yasudeva." 

S'isupala  then  proceeds  to  state  at  length  a  variety  of  objections 
to  what  had  been  done  (vv.  1338  if.).  He  urges  that  Krishna 
was  a  "transgressor  of  the  injunctions  of  law  (smriti],  a  contempt- 
ible and  ill-instructed  person"  (v.  1340:  Ay  am  cha  smrity-atikrdnto  hy 
apageyo  'Ipa-darsanah} ;  that  he  was  not  a  king,  or  a  person  vener- 
able from  age,  his  father  Vasu^eva  being  still  alive  (v.  1343 :  Athavd 
manyase  JTrishnam  sthaviram  Kuru-pungava  \  Vasudeve  sthite  vriddhe 
Icatham  arhati  tat-sutah  \  ) ;  that  in  other  respects  he  was  inferior 
to  other  chiefs  present,  and  that  he  had  unjustly  killed  Jarasandha 
(v.  1360,  compare  verses  1474  ff.) ;  and  taunts  him  with  being  greatly 
elated  with  the  undeserved  honour  that  had  been  paid  him,  like  a  dog 
devouring  in  a  secret  place  the  leavings  of  an  oblation  which  he  has 
discovered  (v.  1364:  Ayuktdm  dtmanah  pujdfn.  tvam  punar  lahu  man- 
yase |  havishah  prdpya  nisyandam  prdsitd  sveva  nirjane  \  ).202  Havmg 

201  This  line  had  previously  occurred  as  part  of  verse  1218  of  the  same  Parvan. 

202  Similarly  we  read  in  S'is'upala's  speech  on  the  same  occasion  as  given  in  the 
Bhagavata  Purana,  x.  74,  34 :  ....   Gopalah  kula-pamsanah  \  yatha  kakah  puroda- 
s am  saparyam  katham  arhati  \   '*  How  does  this  cowherd,  the  vilest  of  his  race, 
deserve  homage,  any  more  than  a  crow  deserves  to  eat  an  oblation?"     The  com- 
mentator thus  gives  what  he  calls  the  "real  sense"  of  these  words:  "Gopalah" 


BHlSHMA  DEFENDS  KRISHNA'S  CLAIMS  TO  HONOUR.       207 

thus  vented  his  indignation,  S'isupala  leaves  the  assembly,  followed 
by  Yudhishthira,  who  endeavours  to  soothe  him.  Bhlshma  then 
defends  Krishna's  claims  to  the  honour  which  he  had  received 
(vv.  1377  ff.) : 

Na  hi  kevalam  asmdkam  ayam  archyatamo  'chyutah  \  traydndm  api 
lokdndm  archamyo  mahtilhujah  \  Krishnena  hi  jitdh  yuddhe  lahavah 
kshatriyarshabhdh  \jagat  sarvam  cha  Tdrshneye  nikhilena  pratisththitam\ 
tasmut  satsv  api  vriddhesfai  Krishnam  archdmi  netardn  |  .  .  .  .  1382. 
Na  kevalam  vayam  kdmdch  Chedi-rdja  Jandrdanam  \  na  sambandham 
puraskritya  kritdrtham  vd  kathanchana  \  archdmahe  'rchitam  sadbhir 
bhuvi  bhuta-sukhdvaham  \  Yasah  sauryam  jayam  chdsya  vijndydrchdm 
prayujmahe  \  na  cha  kaschid  ihdsmdbhih  suldfa  ''py  aparlkshitah  \  gunair 
vriddhdn  atikramya  Harir  archyatamo  matah  \  jndna-vriddho  dvijdtlndm 
kshatriyundm  lalddhikah  \  "1377:  This  unfailing  being  (Achyuta)  is 
not  only  deserving  of  the  utmost  worship  from  us,  but,  large  of  arm, 
he  is  also  to  be  worshipped  by  the  three  worlds.  For  many  eminent 
Kshatriyas  have  been  conquered  by  Krishna:  and  the  whole  world 
rests  upon  Varshneya.  Wherefore,  even  though  there  be  aged  men 

[present],  I  worship  Krishna,  and  not  the  others 1382  :  It 

is  not  therefore  from  interested  motives,  king  of  the  Chedis,  nor  in 
consequence  of  our  connexion,  nor  for  the  sake  of  anything  he  has 
done  for  us,  that  we  worship  Janardana,  who  is  worshipped  by  the 
good  on  earth,  and  who  promotes  the  happiness  of  creatures.  But 
knowing  his  renown,  heroism,  and  victories,  we  offer  him  our  worship. 
Nor  is  there  here  any  mere  youth  whom  we  have  never  tried.  Hari, 
surpassing  the  aged  in  his  virtues,  is  regarded  by  us  as  most  worthy 

iti  veda-prithivy-adi-palakalfity  arthah  \  fcutsitam  veda-vipantam  lapanti  iti  kulapah 
pakhandah  \  tan  amsate  samaghatayati  iti  tat  ha  sah  \  "  akakah"  kaih  cha  akaih  cha 
kake  (=ka-\-ake)  sukha-duhkhe  te  na  vidyete  yasya  sah  \  "akakah"  aptakamah  ity 
arthah  \  sa  yatha  aptakamo  deva-yogyam  piirodasa-matram  na  arhati  api  tu  sarvasvam 
api  tatha  'yam  sn-krishno  brahmarshi-yogyath  samarpana-matram  katham  arhati  I 
kintv  atma-samarpanam  apy  arhati  ity  artltah  \  "'Gopala'  means  the  protector  of 
the»Veda,  the  earth,  etc.  '  Ku-lapah '  are  those  who  speak  what  is  evil,  contrary  to 
the  Veda,  heretics.  '  Kulapamsana '  (Ku-|~lapa-j-amsana)  is  thus  one  who  destroys 
(amsate)  such  persons.  '  Akakah '  (the  commentator  chposes  here  to  suppose  that 
theve  is  an  elided  a  between  yatha  an&'kakah)  is  one  to  whom  ('kake')  pleasure 
and  pain  (ka-\-a-\-ka)  do  not  attach ;  one  who  has  gained  all  he  desires.  Just  as 
such  an  one  merits  not  merely  an  oblation  suitable  for  a  deity,  but  all  wealth  also, 
so  Krishna  does  not  deserve  merely  the  offering  suitable  for  a  Brahman-rishi,  but 
also  the  offering  up  of  one's  self." 


208          BHISHMA'S  REASONS  FOR  HONOURING  KRISHNA. 

of  worship.  In  knowledge  he  excels  Brahmans,  and  in  force 
Kshatriyas."  .... 

1386:  Pujyatdytincha  Govinde  hetu  dvdv  api  saihsthitau  \  veda-veddnga- 
vijndnam  balam  chdpy  adhiJcam  tathd,,]  nrindm  lolce  hi  ko  'nyo  'sti  visish- 
tah  Kesavdd  rite  \  ddnam  ddlcshyam  srutam  sauryam  hrzh  klrtir  buddhir 
uttamd  \  sannatih  srlr  dhritis  tushtih  pmhtischa  niyatd  'chyute  \  tarn 
imam  loka-santpannam  dchdryam  pitaram  gurum  \  arghyam  architam 
archdrham  sane  samkshantum  arhatha  \  ritvig  gurur  vivdhyas  cJia  snutako 
nfipatih  priyah  \  sarvam  etad  Hrishlkesas  tasmdd  alhyarchito  'chyutah  \ 
JTrishnah  eva  hi  loJcdndm  utpattir  api  chapyayah  \  JTrisJmasya  hi  krite 
visvam  idam  bhutam  chardcharam  \  esha  prakritir  avyalcta  Jcarta  chaiva 
sandtanah  \  paras  cha  sarva-lhutelhyas  tasmdd  .pujyatamo  'chyutah  \ 
Buddhir  mano  mahad  vaym  tejo  'mbhah  Jcham  malil  cha  yd  \  chatur- 

vidham  cha  yad  Ihutam  sarvam  JTrishne  pratishthitam  \ 

1396:  Sa-devalceshu  lokeshu  lhagavdn  Kesavo  mukham  \  ayafh  tu 
purusho  lalah  S'isupdlo  na  ludhyate  \  sarvatra  sarvadd  Krislmam 
tasmdd  evam  pralhdshate  \  yo  hi  dhapmam  vichinuydd  utkrishtam 
matimdn  narah  \  so  vai  pasyed  ydthd  dharmam  na  tathd  Chedi-rdd  ayam\ 
sa-vriddha-bdleshv  athavd  pdrthiveshu  mahdtmasu  \  ko  ndrham  manyate 
Erishnaih  ko  vd  py  enam  na  pujayet  \  aihaindm  dushkritdm  pujdm  S'isu- 
pdlo  vyavasyati  \  dushkritdydm  yathdnydyam  tathd  ''yam  kartum  arhati] 

"There  are  two  reasons  why  Govinda  is  worthy  of  honour:  his 
knowledge  of  the  Yedas  and  Vedangas,  and  his  superior  strength.  For 
who  in  the  world  of  men  is  distinguished  except  Kesava  ?  Generosity, 
ability,  sacred  learning,  heroism,  modesty,  eminent  renown,  intelligence, 
humility,  splendour,  endurance,  cheerfulness  and  joyousness,  exist  con- 
tinually in  Achyuta.  You  ought  all  to  tolerate  this  teacher  arisen  in 
the  world  (or  successful  in  the  world),  this  father,  preceptor,  venerable, 
honoured,  deserving  of  honour.  Priest,  preceptor,  marriageable  man, 
householder,  king,  beloved, — Hrishikesa  is  all  this,  and  therefore  he 
has  been  honoured.  It  is  Krishna  who  is  the  origin  and  the  destruc- 
tion of  the  worlds :  all  this  universe,  movable  and  immovable,  has 
come  into  being  through  (or  for  the  sake  of)  Krishna.203  He  is  un- 

203  The  grounds  urged  for  honouring  Krishna  iu  this  and  the  following  verses  dre 
of  a  different  character  from  those  in  the  preceding  lines,  which  do  not  ascribe  to 
him  any  qualities  of  a  superhuman  character ;  whilst  the  succeeding  ones  do.  It  is 
quite  possible  that  the  whole  of  this  description  of  his  qualities  may  not  be  of  one 
age,  but  may  contain  interpolations  subsequently  introduced. 


S'IS'UPALA'S  DEPRECIATION  OF  KRISHNA.  .  209 

distinguishable  matter  (prakriti),  and  he  is  the  eternal  maker,  transcend- 
ing all  beings:  hence  Achyuta  is  most  worthy  of  honour.  Intellect, 
mind,  the  great  one  (mahat),  air,  fire,  water,  sky,  and  earth — whatever 

fourfold  being  exists — all  depends  upon  Krishna 1396.  The 

divine  Kesava  is  chief  among  the  worlds  including  the  gods.  But  this 
foolish  man,  S'isupala,  does  not  know  that  Krishna  [is]  everywhere 
and  always — andtence  he  speaks  thus.  For  this  king  of  the  Chedis 
does  not  regard  righteousness  in  the  same  way  as  an  intelligent  man 
who  can  distinguish  eminent  righteousness.  Who  is  there,  whether 
among  old  or  young,  or  among  mighty  kings,  who  will  not  regard 
Krishna  as  honourable,  or  who  will  not  reverence  him  ?  S'isupala 
treats  this  honour  as  unduly  paid.  But  it  having  been  unduly  paid, 
he  should  act  as  is  befitting." 

S'isupala  afterwards  renews  his  vilifications  of  Krishna,  in  a  long 
harangue,  of  which  the  following  is  a  specimen  (vv.  1433  ff.) : 

1433.  S'isupdlah  uvdcha  \  vibhlshikdbhir  bahvlbhir  bhlshayan  sarva- 
pdrthivdn  \  na  vyapatrapase  kasmdd  vriddhah  san  kula-pdmsanah  \  yuk- 
tam  etat  tritlydydm  prakritau  vartatd  tvayd  \  vaktum  dharmdd  apetdr- 
tham  tvam  hi  sarva-kuruttama[h~\  \  ndvi  naur  iva  sambaddhd  yathd  'ndho 
vd  'ndham  anviydt  \  tathd  bhutdh  hi  Eauravydh  yeshum  Bhlshma  tvam 
agranlh  \  Putand-ghdta-purvdni  karmdny  asya  viseshatah  \  tvayd  klrta- 
yatd  'smdkam  bhuyah  pravyathitam  manah  \  avaliptasya  murkhasya  Kesa- 
vam  stotum  ichhatah  \  katham  Bhlshma  na  te  jihvd  satadheyam  vidlry- 
yate  \  yatra  kutsd  prayoktavyd  Bhishma  bdlatarair  naraih  \  tarn  imam 
jndna-vriddhah  san  gopam  samstotum  ichhasi  \  yady  anena  hatd  bdlye 
sakunis  chitram  atra  klm  \  tau  vd  'sva-vrishabhau  Bhlshma  yau  na 
yuddha-visdradau  \  chetand-rahitam  kdshtham  yady  anena  nipdtitam  \ 
pddena  sakatam  Bhlshma  tatra  kirn  kritarn  adbhutam  \  valmlka-matrah 
saptdham  yady  anena  dhrito  'chalah  \  tadd  Govardhano  Bhlshma  na  tach 
chitram  matam  mama  \  bhuktam  etena  bahv  annaih  krldatd  naga-murdhani\ 
iti  te  Bhlshma  srimdndh  param  vismayam  dgatdh  \  yasya  chdnena  dhar- 
ma-jna  bhuktam  annam  ballyasah  \  sa  chdnena  hatah  Kaimah  ity  etan  na 
mahddbhutam  \  na  te  srutam  idam  Bhlshma  nunam  kathayatdm  satdm  \ 
yad  vakshye  tvam  adharma-jnaih  vdkyam  Kuru-kiilddhama  \  strlshu  goshu 
na  sastrdni  pdtayed  brdhmaneshu  cha  \  yasya  chdnndni  bhunjlta  yasya 
cha  sydt  pratisrayah  \  iti  santo  'nusdsanti  jajjanajji  dharminah  sadd  \ 
Bhlshma  loke  hi  tat  sarvam  vitatham  tvayi  drisyate  \  jndna-vriddham  cha 

VOL.  iv.  '  » 14 


210  S'IS'UP ALA'S  DEPRECIATION  OF  KRISHNA. 

vriddham  cha  bhuydmsam  Kesavam  mama  \  ajanatah  ivalthyasi  samstuvan 
Kauravddhama  \  go-ghnah  stri-ghnas  cha  san  JBhlshma  tvad-vakydd  yadi 
pujyate  \  evam-bhutas  cha  yo  Bhlshma  katham  samstavam  arhati  |  .  .  . 
1451.  Nunam  prakritir  eshd  tejaghqnya  ndtra  samsayah  \  atah  papiyasl 
chaishdtn  Pdndavdndm  aplshyate  \  yeshdm  archyatamah  Krishnas  tvam 
cha  yeshdm  pradarsakah  \  dharmavdms  tvam  adharma-jnah  satdm  margad 
avaplutah  \  ityddi  \ 

S'isupala  answers  Bhlshma:  "How  is  it  chat  thou,  disgracing  thy 
race,  art  not  ashamed,  old  man  as  thou  art,  to  terrify  all  the  kings  with 
many  alarms?  It  is  very  fitting  [forsooth]  that  thou  who  art  now 
existing  in  the  third  condition,204  shouldst  utter  things  contrary  to 
righteousness,  seeing  thou  art  the  most  eminent  of  all  the  Kurus  ! 
For  as  a  hoat  is  tied  to  a  boat,  or  as  one  blind  man  follows  another, 
so  is  it  with  the  Kurus  of  whom  thou,  Bhlshma,  art  the  leader. 
Our  minds  have  frequently  been  vexed  by  thee  when  detailing  his 
(Krishna's)  slaughter  of  Putana205  and  other  feats.  How  is  it, 
Bhlshma,  that  thy  tongue,  thou  proud  fool,  is  not  split  into  a  hundred 
pieces,  when  thou  seekest  to  magnify  Kesava?  Thou  who  art  ripe  in 
knowledge,  art  eager  to  eulogize  the  cowherd  who  ought  to  be  vilified 
even  by  the  silliest  of  men  !  If  in  his  childhood  he  slew  S'akuni,206  or 
the  horse  and  bull,  who  had  no  skill  in  fighting,  what  is  the  wonder  ? 
If  a  waggon,  an  inanimate  piece  of  wood,  was  upset  by  him  with  his 
foot,207  what  wonderful  thing  did  he  do  ?  If  the  mountain  Govardhana, 
a  mere  ant-hill,  was  held  up  by  him  for  seven  days,208 1  do  not  regard 
that  as  anything  remarkable.  Hearing  that  when  playing  on  the  hill- 

204  The  commentator  explains  this  phrase  as  follows :  Dve  prakriti  parinaminyau 
maya  tasyam  chit-prativimbas  'cha  \  tritJya  prakriti:  tv  etad-ubhayadhyasadhish- 
thanam  nirviseshaih  vastu  \  tatra  vartata  vartamanena,  etc.      "Two  conditions  are 
changeable,  viz.  (1)  illusion  (maya)  and  (2)  the  reflected  image  of  thought  (chit- 
prativimba)  in  it.     The  third  condition  is  the  basis  of  the  erroneous  ascription  of 
the  other  two,  substance  without  distinction,"  etc.     I  am  indebted  to  Dr.  E.  Host 
for  an  important  suggestion  regarding  the  combination  of  two  of  the  words  in  this 
sentence.     Dr.  Rost  informs  me  that  in  the  text  one  MS.  reads  kuruttamah^&nd 
another  sarvam  kuruttama. 

205  A  female  demon  slain  by  Krisbna.— See  "Wilson's  Vishnu   Purana,  p.  506 
(vol.  iv.,  p.  276,  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.). 

206  See  the  Udyoga-parvan  4409,  where  Putana  and  S'akuni  (there  spelt  with  a 
long  I)  are  mentioned  together  as  having  been  slain  by  Krishna  in  childhood. 

*07  See  Vishnu  Purana,  p.  508  (vol.  iv.,  p.  279,  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.). 
208  See  Vishnu  Purana,  p.  526  (vol.  iv.,  p.  315,  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.). 


S'IS'UPALA'S  EARLY 'HISTORY  TOLD  BY  BHISHMA.         211       , 

i 

top,  he  had  eaten  a  great  quantity  of  food,  these  people  were  very 
much  astonished.  And  it  is  no  great  miracle,  0  Bhishma,  thou  judge 
of  duty,  that  he  slew  l£ansa,  the  powerful  king  whose  food  he  had 
eaten.  Hast  thou  not  heard  virtuous  men  declaring  this  which  I  shall 
tell  thee,  who  art  ignorant  of  duty,  Bhishma,  thou  basest  of  the  tribe 
of  Kurus  ?  '  Let  no  one  smite  with  his  weapons  women,209  cattle,  or 
Brahmans,  or  him  whose  food  he  eats,  or  on  whom  he  is  dependent.' 
Such  is  the  instruction  which  good  and  virtuous  men  always  give  to  a 
virtuous  [pupil] .  All  this,  Bhishma,  is  seen  by  all  to  be  falsified  in 
thee.  Thou,  basest  of  the  Kurus,  eulogizing,  speakest  of  Kesava  as 
old  in  knowledge,  and  mature,  and  superior,  as  if  I  did  not  know  him. 
If  he,  being  a  slayer  of  cattle,  and  of  wo'men,  is,  according  to  thy 
word,  to  be  reverenced, — how,  Bhishma,  can  such  a  person  merit 
encomium?  .  .  .  .  1451.  Certainly  this  nature  of  thine  is  base,  of 
this  there  is  no  doubt;  and  hence  [the  nature]  of  these  Pandavas 
also  is  shown  to  be  most  wicked, — [these  Pandavas]  to  whom  Krishna 
is  an  object  of  the  highest  honour,  and  of  whom  thou  art  the  virtuous 
preceptor, — thou,  who  art  ignorant  of  duty,  and  hast  gone  astray  from 
the  path  of  good  men  !  " 

This  speech  excites  the  wrath  of  Bhimasena  (v.  1482),  who,  how- 
ever, is  restrained  by  Bhishma  from  assaulting  S'isupala,  though  the 
latter  is  anxious  to  fight  him.  Bhishma  then  goes  on  (1494  ff.)  to 
give  Bhimasena  an  account  of  S'isupala's  infancy  and  early  history. 
He  had,  it  seems,  been  born  with  thre*  eyes  and  four  arms ;  and  his 
parents,  alarmed  at  his  portentous  appearance,  were  disposed  to  cast 
him  out,  but  were  prevented  by  a  voice  from  the  sky,  which  declared 
to  them  that  the  time, fated  for  his  death  had  not  yet  arrived.  In 
answer  to  his  mother's  inquiry,  the  voice  informed  her  that  her  son 
was  doomed  to  die  by  the  hands  of  the  person  who  should  take  him 
into  his  lap,  and  by  so  doing  should  occasion  his  two  superfluous  arms 
to  drop  off,  and  his  third  eye  to  disappear.  A  part  of  this  prediction  , 
WAS  fulfilled  when  Krishna  came  and  took  him  into  his  lap,  and  the 
infant  got  rid  of  his  superfluous  members.210.  On  seeing  this,  his 

•*»  See  above,  pp.  152  f. 

210  On  this  story  of  S'isupala  Lassen  remarks  (ImVan  Antiquities,  i.  p.  674  first  ed.; 
p.  822  second  ed.) :  "  S'is'upala  iu  this  case  represents  S'i\»,  and  the  conflict  of  the 
S'iva- worship  with  that  of  Vishnu :  for  he  was  born  with  three  eyes  and  four  arms, 
and  the  legend  attributes  the  falling  off  of  his  two  superfluous  arms  and  the  dis- 


212  S'IS'UPALA  REPROVED  -BY  BHISHMA. 

mother  begged  a  boon  from  Krishna,  viz.  that  he   would  forgive 
S'isupala' s  offences.    Krishna  promises  to  pardon  a  hundred.    Bhishma 
,    then  proceeds  (v.  1518  ff.) : 

Evam  esha  nripah  pupah  S'isuptilah  sumanda-dkih  \  tvditi  samdhvayate 
vlra  Govinda-vara-darpitah  \  Naishd  Chedi-pater  buddhir  yayd  tvd  "hva- 
yate  'chyutam  \  nunam  epha  jagad-lhartuh  Krishnasyaim  vinischayah  \ 
ko  hi  mam  Bhlmasenddya  Icshitdv  arhati  pdrthivah  \  hheptuni  kala-parl- 
tdtmd  yathaisha  kula-pumsanah  \  esha  hy  asya  'mahdbdhus  tejo  'msas  cJia, 
Ifarer  dhruvam  \  tarn  eva  punar  dddtum  ichhaty  uta  tathd  vilhuh  \ 
yenaisha  Kuru-sardula  sdrdulah  iva  Chedi-rdt  \  garjaty  atlva  durbuddhih 
sarvdn  asmdn  achintayan  \ 

"Thus  this  wicked  kirig  S'isupala,  slow  of  understanding,  proud 
of  the  boon  conferred  by  Grovinda,  challenges  thee,  0  hero.  This 
does  not  show  wisdom  in  the  lord  of  the  Chedis,  that  he  challenges 
*hee  who  art  Achyuta.  For  this  is  the  fixed  opinion  of  Krishna, 
the  sustainer  of  the  world,  '"What  king  on  earth,  0  Bhimasena, 
ought  to-day  to  revile  me,  deprived  by-  destiny  of  his  reason,  like 
this  degrader  of  his  race?'  For  this  large-armed  (S'isupala)  is  cer- 
tainly [an  emanation  of]  the  strength,  and  a  portion,  of  Hari,  which 
the  pervading  [deity]  wishes  to  draw  back  again  [into  himself];  in 
consequence  of  which,  0  chief  of  the  Kurus,  this  foolish  king  of  the 
Chedis  growls  loudly,  like  a  tiger,  disregarding  us  all." 

S'isupala  here  breaks  in  angrily  (v.  1524  ff.),  and  asks  why  Krishna 
should  be  so  praised  to  the  exclusion  of  all  other  warlike  kings. 
Bhishma  replies  (1551),  that  he  values  not  a  straw  all  the  other  chiefs 
who  were  present.  On  hearing  this,  some  of  them  became  greatly 
incensed ;  and  some  cried  out  that  Bhishma  should  be  killed  or  burned. 
Bhishma  replied  that  they  might  slay  or  burn  him  if  they  pleased, 
but  that  Krishna,  the  object  of  his  reverence,  would  survive,  and  that 

appearance  of  his  frontal  eye  to  the  look  and  embrace  of  Krishna.  This  story  is  of 
f  especial  importance  for  the  purpose  of  determining  the  periods  to  which  the  different 
parts  of  the  Mahabharata  belong.  Krishna's  deification  belongs  to  the  period  after 
Buddhi.  In  the  attack  upon  Jarasandha  he  is  still  exhibited  principally  as  a  hero, 
acts  upon  human  motives,  end  performs  actions  unworthy  of  a  god :  but  there  are 
evident  beginnings  of  his  deification."  The  same  author  adds  in  a  note  on  the  sanie 
page  (p.  823,  second  ed.) :  "  S'is'.uptila  is  probably  an  earlier  name  of  S'iva,  who  is 
called  '  Pas'upati,'  or  lord,  protector,  of  beasts.  '  S'is'u '  denotes  the  young  of  men 
and  beasts,  and  'pala'  protector.  He  had  a  second  name  '  Sunltha'  (Sabhap.  v.  1410), 
which  no  doubt  was  the  proper  one." 


S'IS'UPALA  CHALLENGES  KRISHNA  TO  FIGHT.  213 

> 

any  one  who  was  desirous  to  incur  speedy  destruction  should  challenge 

him  to  fight.     S'isupala  hereupon  challenges  Krishna ;  and  the  narra- 
tive proceeds : 

(Verses  1561  ff.):  Tatah  srutvajva  Bhishmasya  Chedi-rdd  uru-vikra- 
mah  |  yuyutsur  Vdsudevena  Vdsudevam  uvdcha  ha  \  dhvaye  tvdm  ranarn 
gachha  muyd  nurdham  Jandrdana  \  ydvad  adya  nihanmi  tvdm  sahitam 
sarva-Pdndavaih  \  saha  tvayd  hi  me  badhydh  sarvathd  Krishna  Pdndavdh\ 
nripatln  samutikramya  y*air  ardjd  tvam  architah  \  ye  tvdm  ddsam  ardjd- 
nam  bdlydd  archanti  durmatim  \  anarkam  arha-vat  Krishna  badhy.ds 
te  iti  me  matih  \  ity  uktvd  rdju-sdrdula  [_s  ?~\  tasthau  garjann  amarshanah  \ 
evam  ukte  tatah  Krishna  mridu-purvam  idam  vachah  \  ^(vdcha  pdrthivun 
sarvdn  sa  samaTcshaih  cha  Pdndavdn  \  esha  ncth  satrur  atyantam  pdrthivdh 
Sdtvatl-sutah  \  Sdtvatdndm  nrisamsdtmd  na  hito  'napakdrindm  \  Prdg- 
jyotisha-puram  ydtdn  asmdn  jndtvd  nrisamsa-krit  \  adahad  Dvdrakdm 
esha  svasriyah  san  narddhipdh  \  kridato  Bhoja-rdjasya  esha  Raivatake 
girau  \  hatvd  baddhvd  cha  tun  sarvdn  updydt  sva-purampurd  \  asvamedhe 
hayam  medhyam  utsrishlam  rakshibhir  vritam  \  pitur  me  yajna-vighndrtham 
aharat  pdpa-nischayah  \  Sauvlrdn  pratiydtdncha  Babhror  esha  tapasvi- 
nah  |  bhdrydm  abhyaharad  mohdd  akdmu  [m  ?~\  turn  ito  gatdm  \  esha  mdyd- 
pratichhannah  Kdrushdrthe  tapasvinim  \  jahdra  Bhadrdiii  Vaisalim  md- 
tulasya  nrisamsa-vat  \  pitri-svasuh  Jcrite  duhlcham  sumahad  marshaydmy 
aham  \  dishtyd  hldam  sarva-rdjndm  sannidhdv  adyp  vartate  \  pasyanti 
hi  bhavanto  'dya  mayy  atlva  vyatikramam  \  kritdni  tu  paroksham  me  ydni 
tdni  nibodhata  \  imam  tv  asya  na  sakshydmi  Icshantum,  adya  vyatikramam  \ 
avalepdd  badhdrhasya  samagre  rdja-mandale  \  Rukminydm  asya  mudhasya 
prdrthand  "sld  mumurshatah  |  na  cha  turn  prdptavdn  mudhah  sudrah 
vedairutlm  iva  \  evam-ddi  tatah  sarve  sahitds  te  narddhipdh  \  Vdsudeva- 
vachah  srutvd  Chedi-rdjam  vyagarhayan  \  tasya  tad-vachanam  Srutvd 
Sisupdlah  pratdpavdn  \  jahdsa  svanavaddhtisam  vdkyam  chedam  uvucha 
ha  |  mat-purvdm  Rukminlm  Krishna  samsatsu  pariklrtayan  \  viseshatah 
pdrthiveshu  vrlddfh  na  kurushe  kathajn  \  manyamdno  hikah  satsu  purushah 
pariklrtayet  \  anya-purvdm  striyam  jdtu  tvad-anyo  Madhusudana  |* 
kshamu  vd  yudi  te  sraddhd  md  vd  Krishna  mama  kshama  \  kruddhdd  vd 
'pi  prasanndd  vd  kirn  me  tvutto  bhavishyati  \  tathd  bnivatah  evdsya 
bhagavdn  .Hadhmudanah  \  manasd  'chinfyyach  chakraih  daitya-garva- 
nisudanam  \  etdsminn  eva  kdle  tu  chakre  hasta-gite  sati  \  uvacha  bhaga- 
vun  uchchair  vdkyam  vdkya-visdradah  \  srincantu,  me  mahlpdldh  yenuitut 


214  KRISHNA  DETAILS  S'lS'UPALA'S  MISDEEDS. 

kshamitam  maya  \  aparddha-Satam  kshdmyam  mdtur  asyaiva  ydchane  \ 
dattam  maya  ydchitam  cha  tad  vai  purnam  hi  pdrthivdh  \  adhund  la- 
dhayishydmi  pasyatdm  vo  mahikshitam  \  evam  uktvd  Tadu-sreshthas 
Chedirdjasya  tat-kshanat  \  vyapaliarach  chhirah  kruddhas  chakrendmitra- 
karshanah  \  so,  papdta  mahdbdhur  vajrdhatah  ivachalah  \ 

"The  king  of  the  Chedis,  mighty  in  valour,  desirous-  to  fight  with 
Yasudeva,  after  he  had  heard  Bhishma,  then  addressed  the  former: 
'  I  challenge  thee,  approach  to  combat  with  me,  Janardana,  till  I  slay 
thee  with  all  the  Pandavas.  For  together  with  thee,  Krishna,  I  must 
utterly  destroy  the  Pandavas,  who,  passing  over  kings,  have  honoured 
thee  who  art  no  king.  They  who,  through  folly,  honour  thee,  a 
fool,  who  art  a  slave,  and  MO  king,  and  who  art  unworthy,  as  if  thou 
wert  worthy,  [they,  I  say,]  ought  in  my  opinion  to  be  slain.'  Having 
so  spoken,  the  tiger  of  kings  stood  growling  and  indignant.  Krishna 
then  addressed  these  mild  words  to  all  the  kings  and  the  Pandavas,  in 
their  presence :  '  This  son  of  Satvatl,  0  princes,  is  the  bitter  enemy, 
truculent  and  ill-disposed,  of  us  the  Satvrtas,  who  have  done  him  no 
wrong.  This  malignant  man,  a  sister's  son,  knowing  that  we  had  set 
out  for  the  city  of  the  Pragjyotishas,  burned  Dvaraka.  While  the 
king  of  the  Bhojas  was  formerly  amusing  himself  on  the  Revata 
mountain,  he  slew  and  captured  them  all,  and  then  returned  home. 
Bent  upon  wickedaess,  to  interrupt  my  father's  sacrifice,  he  carried 
off  the  horse  intended  as  a  victim,  which  had  been  let  loose,  attended 
by  keepers.  He  in  his  infatuation  carried  off  the  wife  of  the  devotee 
Babhru,  who  had  set  out  to  return  to  [the  country  of]  the  Sauvlras, 
who  had  gone  hence,  and  who  had  no  passion  [for  him].  Under  a 
magical  disguise,  he,  like  a  cruel  wretch,  carried  off  for  the  Karusha 
the  devout  Bhadra,  daughter  of  Yisala,  [the  daughter]  of  my  maternal 
uncle.  For  the  sake  of  my  father's  sister  (S'isupala's  mother),  I  submit 
to  great  vexation.  Fortunately,  this  occurs  to-day  in  presence  of  all  the 
princes,  for  ye  all  behold  the  great  transgression  committed  against  me. 
As  for  the  offences  which  have  been  done  out  of  your  sight,  learn  theci 
from  me.  I  shall  not  to-day  be  able  to  endure  this  transgression  of 

o 

this  infatuated  man,  who,  for  his  presumption,  deserves  to  be  slain  ia 
the  full  assembly  of  princes,i  He  who  is  doomed  to  die,  sought  to 
gain  Rukminl,  but  the"  fool  did  not  obtain  her,  as  a  S'udra  is  excluded 
from  the  veda.'  Hearing  these  and  such  other  words  of  Yasudeva, 


S'IS'UPALA  RETALIATES,  AND  IS  SLAIN  BY  KRISHNA.       215 

> 

all  the  princes  together  then  reviled  the  king  of  the  Chedis.     But  the 

mighty  S'isupala,  hearing  these  words,  laughed  a  sonorous  laugh,  and 
thus  spake :  '  How  is  it,  that  thou  art  not  ashamed,  Krishna,  thus  in 
the  assembly,  and  especially  before  the  princes,  to  make  mention  of 
Rukmini,  who  was  betrothed  to  me?211  For  what  man  but  thou, 
Madhusudana,  -after  reflection,  would  mention  among  respectable 
persons  a  woman  who  had  been  betrothed  to  another  ?  Forgive  me, 
Krishna,  if  thou  hast  generosity,  or  refuse  to  forgive  me.  What  shall 
happen  to  me  from  thee  whether  thou  art  well-pleased  or  angry?' 
As  he  thus  spake,  the  divine  Madhusudana  in  his  mind  thought  upon 
the  discus,  the  humbler  of  the  pride  of  the  Daityas.  The  discus 
having  come  into  his  hand  at  that  very  time,  the  divine  being,  skilled 
in  words,  uttered  aloud  this  word:  'Let  the  kings  listen  to  me  by 
whom  this  forgiveness  has  been  practised.  At  the  request  of  his 
mother,  a  hundred  offences  were  to  be  pardoned.  That  request  was 
granted  by  me,  and  it  has  been  fulfilled,  0  kings.  I  shall  now  slay 
him,  while  you  kings  look  on,'  Having  thus  spoken,  the  chief  of  the 
Yadus,  the  vexer  of  his  foes,  incensed,  instantly  struck  off  the  head 
of  the  king  of  the  Chedis  with  his  discus.  The  great-armed  (warrior) 
fell  like  a  mountain  smitten  by  a  thunder-bolt." 212 

211  EukminT  had  been  betrothed  to  S'isupala,  as  we  are  told  in  the  Vishnu  Parana, 
v.  26,  1  ff.  (Wilson,  p.  573,  first  ed. ;  p.  69,  vol.  v.  of  Dr.  Hdl's  ed.) :  BKiskmakah 
Kundine  raja  Vidarbha-vishaye  'bhavat  \  Rukirii  tasyabhavat  putro  Rukmini  cha 
varangana  \  Rukminim  chakame  Erishnah  sa  cha  tairi  charu-hasini\  na  dadau  yaehate 
chainaih  Rutciril  daeshena  chakrine  \  dadau  cha  S'isupalaya  Jarasandha-prachoditah  \ 
Shishmako  Rukmind  sarddham  Riikmintm  uru-vikramah  \  "  Bhishmaka  was  king  in 
Kundina,  in  the  country  of  the  Vidarbhas.  Rukmin  was  his  son,  and  the  beautiful 
Rukmini  (his  daughter).  Krishna  loved  Rukmini,  and  the  sweetly-smiling  maid 
(loved)  him,  but  Rukmin  did  not  give  her  to  the  wielder  of  the  discus,  when  he 
asked  her ;  but  urged  by  Jarasandha,  Bhishmaka,  mighty  in  valour,  together  with 
Rukmin,  gave  her  to  S'is'upftla."  Krishna  comes  to  witness  the  nuptials  of  his 
rival,  and  carries  off  the  princess  on  the  eve  of  the  wedding.  The  story  is  told  at 
greater  length  in  the  Harivams'a,  sect.  117,  w.  6579  ff. ;  and  in  the  Bhagavata 
Purana,  x.  sections  43  ff. 

S12  See  the  sequel,  vv.  1585-1588.  The  Vishnu  Purana  (Wilson's  translation,  p.  437,  ' 
first  ed. ;  vol.  iv.  p.  104,  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.)  tells  that  S'is'upala  had  been  in  a  former 
birth  the  Daitya  Hiranyakas'ipu,  who  was  killed  by  Vishnu  in  his  man-lion  incarnation. 
Hs  afterwards  became  Ravana,  who  was  slain  by  Rama.  In  his  character  as  S'is'u- 
pala he  evinced  an  intense  hatred  towards  Vishnu,  "  a  portion  of  the  supreme  being, 
who  had  descended  to  lighten  the  burthens  of  the  e<&th,"  (V.  P.  iv.  14,  14  :  S'isupal- 
atvena  bhagavato  bhu-bharavataranaya  avatirnamsasya  fundarikanayanakhyasya 
upari  dveshanubandham  atitaram  ehakura  \  )  and  was  in  consequence  slain  by  him ; 


216  SANJAYA,  IN  OPPOSITION  TO  DURYODHANA, 

Duryodhana,  the  son  of  Dhritarashtra,  and  the  principal  leader  of 
the  Kurus,  is  represented  as  manifesting  a  similar  disbelief  of  Krishna's 
divine  character,  or  at  least  as  maintaining  a  proud  and  contumacious 
resistance  to  his  claims.  In  the  TJdyoga-parvan  (vv.  2527  ff.),  Sanjaya 
unfolds  the  divine  nature  of  Krishna,  "who,"  he  says,  "being  distinct 
in  nature,  and  self-subdued,  is  able,  by  a  thought,  to  subject  to  himself 
the  earth,  the  air,  and  the  heaven"  (prlthivlnchdntarlkshancha  dydm 
chaiva  Purushottamah  \  manasaiva  visishtdtmd  nayaty  dtma-vasam  vasi)\ 
He  then  goes  on  to  say,  vv.  2529  ff. : 

Ekato  vdjagat  Icritsnam  ekato  vd  Jandrdanah  \  sdrato  jagatah  Jcritsndd 
atirikto  Jandrdanah  \  bhasma  kuryddjagad  idam  manasaiva  Jandrdanah  \ 
na  cha  kritsnam  jagach  chhaktam  bhasmlkartum  Jandrdanam  \  yatah 
satyam  yato  dharmo  yato  hrlr  drjavam  yatah  \  tato  bhavati  Govindo 
yatah  Krishnas  tatojayah  \  prithiviih  chdntarikshancha  divancha  Purush- 
ottamah |  vicheshtayati  bhutdtmd  kridann  iva  Jandrdanah  \  sa  kritvd 
Pdndavdn  satram  lokam  sammohayann  iva  \  adharma-niratdn  mudhdn 
dagdhum  ichhati  te  sutdn  \  kdla-chakram  jagach-chakram  yuga-chakrancha 
Kesavah  \  dtma-yogena  lhagavdn  parivartayate  'nisam  \  Jtdlasya  cha 
hi  mrityoschajangama-sthdvarasya  cha  \  Isate  bhagavdn  ekah  satyam  etad 
bravlmi  te  \  Isann  api  mahdyogl  sarvasya  jagato  Harih  \  karmdny  dra- 
Ihate  Jcartum  Jclndsah  iva  vardhanah  \  tena  vanchayate  lolcdn  mdydyogena 
Kesavah  \  ye  tam  eva  prapadyante  tena  muhyanti  mdnavdh  \  Dhrita- 
rdshtrah  uvdcha  \  katham  tvam  Mddhavam  vettha  sarva-loka-mahesvaram  \ 
katham  enam  na  veddham  tad  mamdchaTcshva  Sanjaya  \  Sanjayah  uvdcha  \ 
srinu  rdjan  na  te  vidyd  mama  vidyd  na  hlyate  \  vidyd-hlno  tamo-dhvasto 
ndlhijdndti  JZesavam  \  vidyayd  tdta  jdndmi  triyugam  Madhusudanam  \ 
Jcartdram  akritaih  devam  Ihutdndm  prabhavdpyayam  \  Dhritardshtrah 

but  as  his  thoughts  were  "constantly  engrossed  by  the  supreme  being,"  S'is'upala 
became  united  with  him  after  death ;  for  the  lord  gives  "  to  those  to  whom  he  is 
favourable  whatever  they  desire,"  and  "bestows  a  heavenly  and  exalted  station  even 
upon  those  whom  he  slays  in  his  displeasure."  This  is  further  explained  in  the  next 
(  section,  where  we  are  told  that  Krishna  us  an  object  of  hatred  was  ever  present  to 
S'is'upala's  thoughts,  and  that  he  was  constantly  uttering  his  names,  and  though  tllis 
was  done  disrespectfully  and  in  malediction,  yet  he  at  last  beheld  the  deity  in  his 
true  character  when  he  was  being  slain  by  him,  and  that  then  all  his  passion  and 
hatred  ceased,  and  his  sins  were  consumed  by  his  divine  adversary,  with  whom  he 
became  united.  The  attempt  of,  S'is'upula's  brother,  king  of  the  S'alvas  (whose 
capital  was  Saubha),  to  revenge  hi?  death,  his  assault  on  Dvaraka,  his  desire  to  slay 
Krishna,  and  the  destruction  which  he  thereby  drew  upon  himself,  are  narrated  in 
the  Vana-parvan,  vv.  615-890. 


ASSERTS  KRISHNA'S  DIVINE  CHARACTER.  217 

> 
uvdcJia  |  Gdvalgane  'tra  Jed  ITiaHir  yd  te  nityam  Jdnardane  \  yathd  tvam 

abhijdndsi  iriyugam  Madhusudanam  \  Sanjayah  uvdcJia  \  mdydm  na 
seve  lhadram  te  na  vrithd*  dharmam  dchare  \  suddha-lhdvam  gato  bhaktyd 
sdstrdd  vedmi  Jandrdanam  \  Dhritcydshtrah  uvdcha  \  Duryodhana  Hrishi- 
kesam  prapadyasva  Jandrdanam  \  dpto  nah  Sanjayas  tdta  saranam  gacJiha 

Ke£avam  \  Dutyodhanah  uvdcha  \  Bhagavdn  Devaki-putro  lokdms  ched 

t 

nihanishyati  \  pravadann  Arjune  saTcJiyam  ndham  gachhe  'dya  Kesavatn  \ 
2529.  "  On  the  one  side*  the  whole  world,  on  the  other  Janardana, — in 
his  essence  Janardana  exceeds  the  whole  world.  He  could  by  a  thought 
reduce  this  world  to  ashes ;  but  the  whole  world  could  not  reduce  him  to 
ashes.  Since  he  is  truth,  righteousness,  modesty,  rectitude, — therefore 
is  he  Govinda ;  since  he  is  Krishna,  he  is  therefore  victory.  The  chief 
of  males  (or  spirits),  Janardana,  the  soul  of  beings,  imparts  activity  to 
the  earth,  air,  and  sky,  as  if  in  sport.  He  having  made  for  the  Pandavas 
a  sacrifice,  deluding,  as  it  were,  the  world,  wishes  to  burn  up  thy 
(Dhritarashtra's)  infatuated  and  unrighteous  sons.  The  divine  Kesava 
by  his  own  abstraction  (yoga)  makes  the  circles  of  time,  of  the  world, 
and  of  the  ages  (yugas),  continually  to  revolve.  This  divine  being 
alone  is  lord  of  time,  of  death,  and  of  things  movable  and  im- 
movable,— this  I  tell  thee  as  a  truth.  Hari,  the  great  contemplator, 
though  the  lord  of  the  whole  world,  undertakes  to  perform  works,  like 
a  poor  peasant  seeking  gain.  He  deceives  the  world  by  this  display  of 
delusion  whereby  the  men  who  seek  him  are  bewildered.  Dhritarashtra 
said :  How  dost  thou  know  Hadhava,  the  great  lord  of  the  whole 
world?  and  how  is  it  that  I  do  not  know  him  ? — tell  me  that,  Sanjaya. 
Sanjaya  answered  :  Hear,  0  king,  thou  hast  not  knowledge ;  but  to  me 
knowledge  is  not  wanting.  He  who  is  devoid  of  knowledge,  and  sunk 
in  darkness,  does  not  recognize  Kesava.  By  knowledge  I  recognize 
Madhusudana,  who  exists  in  the  three  ages  (yiigas\  the  maker,  the 
unmade,  the  god,  the  source  of  beings,  and  the  cause  of  their  de- 
struction. Dhritarashtra  asks:  O.Gavalgani  (Sanjaya),  what  is  this 
devotion  of  thine  to  Janardana,  whereby  thou  recognizest  him  to  exist  "* 
in  the  three  Yugas?  Sanjaya  answers:  I  do  not  pursue  a  delusion, 
b]«ss  thee,  nor  do  I  vainly  practise  righteousness.  Having  by  devotion 
attained  to  purity,  I  know  Janardana  fj-om  the  scripture  (Castro}. 
Dhritarashtra  said :  Duryodhana,  do  thou  ^eek  Htishikesa,  Janardana  : 
Sanjaya  is  to  us  an  authoritative  teacher :  resort  to  Kesava  as  thy 


218  DFRYODHANA  IS  REPROVEE  BY  HIS  PARENTS. 

refuge.  Duryodhana  said :  If  the  divine  son  of  Devak!  should  destroy 
the  worlds,  I  should  not,  declaring  friendship  for  Arjuna,  resort  to- 
day to  Kes'ava." 

Duryodhana  is  hereupon  reproveduby  his  father  and  mother  for  his 
pride,  self-will,  and  ambition,  and  is  told  by  the  latter  that  "  when  he 
has  received  his  death-hlow  from  Bhimasena,  he  will  'remember  the 
words  of  his  father  (nihato  Bhlmasenena  smartdsi  vachanam  pituK)" 
After  some  further  conversation,  Dhritarashtra  asks  to  be  further  in- 
structed about  Krishna,  when  Sanjaya  proceeds  as  follows  (vv.  2560  ff.) :. 

Sanjayah  uvdcha  \  srutam  me  Vdsudevasya  nama-nir vachanam  subham  \ 
ydvat  tatrdbhijdne  ''ham  aprameyo  hi  Kesavah  \  vasandt  sarva-bhutdndni 
vasutvdd  deva-yonitah  \  Vdsudevas  tato  vedt/o  vrihatvdd  Vishnur  uchyate  \ 
maundd  dhydndch  cha  yogdchcha  v iddhi  Bhdrata  Mddhavam  \  sarva-tattva- 
mayatvdch  cha  Madhuhd  Madhusudanah  \  krishir  bhu-vdchakah  sabdo 
nascha  nirvriti-vdchakah  \  Vishnus  tad-bhdva-yogdchcha  Krishna  bhavati 
Sdtvatah  \  pundarlkam  param  dhdma  nityam  akshayam  avyayam  \  tad- 
bhdvdt  Pundarlkdksho  dasyu-trdsdj  Jandrdanah  \  yatah  sattvdd  na 
chyavate  yach  cha  sattvdd  na  lily  ate  \  sattvatah  Sdttvatas  tasmdd  drsha- 
bhdd  Yrishabhekshanah  \  najdyate  janitrd  ''yam  Ajas  tasmdd  ariikajit  \ 
devdndm  sva-prakdsatvdd  damdd  Ddmodaro  vibhuh  \  harshdt  sukhdt  su~ 
khaisvarydd  Hrishlkesatvam  asnute  \  bdhubhydm  rodasl  bibhrad  mahd- 
bdhur  iti  smritah  \  adho  na  kshlyate  jdtu  yasmdt  tasmdd  adhokshajah  \ 
nardndm  ayandch  chdpi  tato  Ndrdyanah  smritah  \  purandt  sadandch 
chdpi  tato  'sau  Purushottamah  \  asatas  cha  satas  chaiva  sarvasya  prabha- 
vdpyaydt  \  sarvasya  cha  sadd  jndndt  Sarvam  etam  prachakshate  \  satye 
pratishthitah  Krishnah  satyam  atra  pratishthitam  \  satydt  satyancha 
Govindas  tasmdt  Satyo  ''pi  ndmatah  \  Vishnur  vikramandd  devo  jayandj 
Jishnur  uchyate  \  sdsvatatvdd  Anantascha  Govindo  vedandd  gavdm  \  atatt- 
vam  kurute  tattvam  tena  mohayate prajdh  \  evamvidho  dharma-nityo  bhaga- 
van  Madhusudanah  \  dgantd  hi  mahdbdhur  dnrisamsydrtham  achyutah  \ 

"  Sanjaya  says :  Thou  hast  heard,£rom  me  the  auspicious  explanation 
of  Vasudeva's  names,  as  far  as  I  understand  the  subject;  for  Kesata 
is  immeasurable.  He  is  to  be  known  as  Yasudeva  from  his  dwelling 
(vasandt)  in  all  beings,  from  his  issuing  as  a  Yasu  from  a  divine  womb. 
From  his  greatness  (vrihatvdt)  he  is  called  Vishnu.  From  his  silence, 
(maundt)  contemplation,  anil  abstraction,  do  thou  know  him  to  be 
Madhava.  From  his  possessing  the  nature  of  all  principles,  he  is 


SANJAYA  EXPLAINS  KRISHNA'S  NAMES.  219 

i 

Madhuhan,  and  Madhusudana.  The^word  krishi  denotes  '  earth,'  and 
na  denotes  '  cessation ' ;  Vishnu,  from  containing  the  nature  of  these 
things,  is  Krishna,  the  Sattvata.  Pundarika  means  the  highest  abode, 
eternal,  unchangeable,  undecaying<  from  his  having  that  character  he 
is  Pundarlkaksha.  From  terrifying  the  Dasyus  he  is  Janardana.  In- 
asmuch as  he  d6es  not  fall  from,  or  fail  in,  existence  (sattva),  therefore, 
from  his  existence,  he  is  Sattvata,  and  from  his  excellence  (drshabhat) 
he  is  Vrishabhekshana.  *  As  he  is  not  generated  by  a  father,  he  is 
Aja  (the  unborn),  the  victorious  in  battle.  From  the  self-illumination 
of  the  gods,  and  from  self-restraint  (dama},  the  mighty  being  is  Damo- 
dara.  He  obtains  his  character  as  Hrishikesa  from  joy  (harsha), 
pleasure,  and  the  ease  with  which  he  rtfles.  Sustaining  the  two 
worlds  with  his  arms,  he  is  called  Mahabahu  (great-armed}.  Since  he 
never  sinks  downwards  (adho  no,  Tishlyate]  he  is  Adhokshaja.  From 
movement  among  men  (nardndm™  ayanat}  he  is  called  Narayana. 
From  filling  (purandf)  and  from  abiding  (sadandf)  he  is  Purushottama. 
Since  he  is  the  source  and  the  destruction  of  everything  (sarvasya) 
both  non-existent  and  existent,  and  since  he  always  knows  all,  they 
call  him  Sarva.  Krishna  is  based  on  truth  (satye),  and  truth  is  based 
on  him,  and  Govinda  is  truer  than  truth,  therefore  he  is  also  called  Satya. 
The  god  is  called  Vishnu  from  striding  (vikramantit),  Jishnu  from 
conquering  (jayantit],  Ananta  from  his  eternity,  and  Govinda  from 
the  possession  of  cattle 214  (vedandd  gavam).  He  makes  the  reality  an 
unreality,  and  so  deludes  creatures.  Of  such  a  character,  constant 

213  Perhaps  the  true  reading  is  naranam,  "waters,"  as  in  the  text  of  Manu,  cited 
above,  p.  31. 

214  Another  explanation  oPjhis  name  is  given  in  S'anti-parvan,  v.  13228  f. :  Nash- 
taih  eha  dharawm  purvam  avindam  vai  guhdgatdm  \  Govindah  iti  tendham  devair 
vagbhir  abhisthtutah  \  "  And  since  I  discovered  the  earth  which  had  formerly  been 
destroyed,  and  had  sunk  into  the  abyss,  I  was  therefore  lauded  by  the  gods  with 
praises  as  Govinda."     And  in  the  following  verse,  occurring  in  the  description  of 
the  ocean,  in  the  Adi-parvan,  v.  1216,  the  word  Govinda  is  thus  interpreted :  Gam 
vinlata  bhagavata  Govindenamitaujasa  \  varaha-rupind  chdntar  vikshobhita-jalcivilam  \ 
"  [That  ocean]  which  was  rendered  turbid  when  its  waters  were  agitated  within  by 
the  divine  Govinda  of  illimitable  power,  who  in  the  forv  of  a  boar  found  the  earth 
[beaeath  its  surface]."     I  notice  in  the  same  passage  another  verse  (1215),  which 
seems  to  show  that,  at  the  period  when  it  was  written,  the  Hindus  were  acquainted 
with  the  cause  of  the  tides,  or  at  least  with  the  influence  of  the  moon  upon  the 
ocean :  Chandra-vriddhi-kshaya-vas'ad  udvrittormi-samaJculam  \  "  [The  ocean]  tossed 
with  waves  which  rise  in  obedience  to  the  waxing  and  waning  of  the  moon." 


220    DURYODHANA'S  SCEPTICISM:  DISPLAY  OF  KRISHNA'S  GLORY. 

in  righteousness,  is  the  divine  Madhusudana.      For  the  great-armed 
Achyuta  (or  unfailing  deity)  will  come  for  the  sake  of  innocence." 

The  following  is  another  illustration  'of  Duryodhana's  enmity  to 
Krishna,  and  of  his  scepticism  in  regard  to  the  supernatural  character 
of  that  personage,  at  the  same  time  that  it  shows  the  writer's  faith  in 
the  divine  nature  of  his  hero.  It  is  related  in  the  Udyoga-parvan  that 
Krishna  went  to  the  Kurus,  with  the  intention  of  mediating  between 
them  and  the  Pandus.  While  he  was  with  them,  Duryodhana  plotted 
to-  confine  him  (v.  4368),  but  Vidura  warns  the  plotter  that  his  attempt 
would  be  vain,  owing  to  the  divine  power  of  Krishna.  On  the  con- 
clusion of  Yidura's  speech,  Krishna  addresses  himself  to  Duryodhana 
(4418  ff.): 

Vidurenaivam  ulctas  tu  Kesavah  satru-puga-hd  \  Duryodhanam  Dhdr- 
tardshtram  alhyalhdshata  vlryavdn  \  eko  'ham  iti  yad  mohdd  manyase 
mdm  Suyodhana  \  parilhilya  sudurluddhe  grahitum  mdm  chikirshazi  \ 
ihaiva  Pdndavdh  sarve  tathaivdndhaka-vrishnayah  \  ihdditydscha  Rudrds 
cha  Vasavas  cha  saharshibhih  \  evam  uktvu  jahdsochchaih  Kesavah  para- 
vira-hd  \  tasya  samsmayatah  $  aurer  vidyud-rupdh  mahdtmanah  \  angmh- 
tha-mdtrds  tridasdh  mumuchuh  pdvakdrchishah  \  asya  Brahma  laldta-stho 
Rudro  valcshasi  chdbhavat  \  loka-pdldh  bhujeshv  dsann  Agnir  dsydd  ajd- 
yata  \  Adityds  chaiva  Sddhyds  cha  Vasavo  'thdsvindv  api  \  Marutas  cha 
sahendrena  Visve  devds  tathaiva  cha  \  babhuvus  chaiha™-rupdni  YaTcsha- 
Gandharva-Rakshasam  \  prddurdstaih  tathd  dorbhydm  Sanlcarshana- 
Dhananjayau  \  dakshine  'thdrjnno  dhanvl  hall  Rdmas  cha  savyatah  \ 
JBhimo  Yudhishthirai  chaiva  Mddrl-putrau  cha  prishthatah  \  Andhakdh 
Vrishnayas  chaiva  Pradyumna-pramulchds  tatah  \  agre  babhuvuh  Krish- 
nasya  samudyata-mahdyudhdh  \  sankha-chakra-gadd-sakti-sdrnga-ldngala- 
nandalcdh  \  adrisyantodyatdny  eva  sarva-praharantini  cha  \  ndnd-bdhushu 
Krishnasya  dlpyamdndni  sarvasah  \  ityddi. 

"Being  thus  addressed,  the  heroic  Kesava,  slayer  of  hostile  bands, 
thus  addressed  Duryodhana,  son  of.  Dhritarashtra :  '  Since,  Suyodhana, 
thou,  in  thy  delusion,  regardest  me  as  if  I  were  alone,  and,  0  f(5t>l, 
seekest  to  overcome  and  confine  me,  [know  that]  here  are  all  the 
Pandavas,  the  Andhakas,  and  the  Vrishnis,  as  well  as  the  Adityas, 
Kudras,  and  Vasus,  together  with  the  rishis.'  Having  thus  spoken, 
Kesava,  slayer  of  hwstile  heroes,  laughed  aloud.  As  the  mighty  de- 
216  Quere,  may  not  chaiva  be  the  proper  reading  ? 


DURYODHANA  AND  OTHERS  CLAIM  EQUALITY  WITH  KRISHNA.  221 

scendant  of  Sura  [Krishna]  smiled,  the  gods,  wearing  the  appearance 
of  lightning,  of  the  size  of  a  thumb,  and  luminous  as  fire,  issued  forth 
from  him.  Brahma  occupied  his  forehead,  Rudra  was  produced  on 
his  chest,  the  guardians  of  the  world  appeared  on  his  arms,  and  Agni 
sprang  from  his  mouth.  The  Adityas,  too,  and  the  Sadhyas,  Vasus, 
Asvins,  Marutsi  and  all  the  gods  along  with  Indra  were  produced,  and 
also  the  forms  of  tne  Yakshas,  Gfandharvas,  and  Rakshasas.  Sankarshana 
and  Dhananjaya  also  were  manifested  from  his  arms,  Arjuna  armed 
with  a  bow  from  his  right,  and  Rama  holding  a  plough  from  his  left, 
Yudhishthira  and  Bhima,  the  sons  of  Madrl,  from  his  back.  Next 
Andhakas  and  Vrishnis,  headed  by  Pradyumna,  arose  on  his  front, 
with  their  weapons  ready.  A  shell,  discus,,  club,  spear,  bow,  plough, 
and  sword,  were  seen  prepared,  and  all  weapons,  gleaming  in  every 
form  on  the  different  arms  of  Krishna." 

In  the  next  passage,  taken  from  the  Karna-parvan  also,  Duryodhana, 
and  other  warriors  on  his  side,  put  themselves  on  the  same  level  as 
Krishna  (except  in  one  pla^e,  vv.  1625  ff.).  It  is  there  related 
(vv.  1265  ff.)  that  Karna  promised  to  Duryodhana  to  encounter  and 
slay  Arjuna,  or  be  slain  by  him.  Karna  says,  however,  that  in  some 
respects  he  is  inferior  to  Arjuna;  as,  for  instance,  in  not  having  such 
a  charioteer  as  Arjuna  had  in  Gfovinda  (Krishna)  (v.  1302 :  Sdrathis 
tasya  Govindo  mama  tddrin  na  vidyate} ;  while  in  other  respects 
he  regards  himself  as  having  the  advantage  (v.  1304).  As,  then, 
Krishna,  creator  of  the  world,  preserves  the  car  of  Arjuna  (Krishnas 
cha  srashta  jagato  ratham  tarn  abhirakshati-16),  if,  in  like  manner,  S'alya, 
king  of  the  Madras,  the  ornament  of  the  battle-field,  who  is  equal 
to  S'auri  (Krishna)  and,  as  well  as  Dasarha,  (Krishna)  who  knows 
a  horse's  heart,  is  skilled  in  horses,  will  act  as  his  charioteer,  Karna 
thinks  the  victory  of  Duryodhana's  side  will  be  certain  (v.  1 308  : 
Ayam  tu  sadrisah  S'aureh  S'alyah  samiti-sobhanah  \  sdrathyam  yadi  me 
kurydd  dhruvas  te  vijayo  bhavet  \  .  .  .  .  1311  :  Evam  abhyadhikah 
P^rthdt  bhavishydmi  gunair  aham  \  S'alyo  'py  abhyadhikah  Krishndd  ' 
Arjundd  api  chdpy  aham  \  yathd  ' sva-hridayam  veda  Ddsdrhah  para- 

216  If  the  words  srashta  jagatah,  "  creator  of  the  world,"  are  not  an  interpolation, 
it  is  not  easy  to  perceive  how  Karna  could  have  regarded  Krishna  as  his  equal,  as  he 
would  never  have  thought  of  calling  S'alya,  or  any  other  o5  his  brother  warriors,  the 
creator  of  the  world. 


222      S'ALYA  OFFENDED,  BUT  APPEASED  BY  DURYODHANA. 

vira-hd  \  tathd  S'alyo  'pi  jdnlte  haya-jndnam  mahdrathah  \ )  Duryo- 
dhana  then  goes  to  S'alya,  and  asks  him  to  act  as  charioteer  to  Karna, 
saying  that  he  (S'alya)  was  equal  to  Krishna,  that  there  was  no  other 
person  who  could  drive  Karna  but  himself;  and  that  Brahma  had 
fulfilled  the  same  office  to  Mahadeva  (v.  1328  f. :  Sdrathyam  rathindm 
freshtha  pranaydt  kartum  arhasi  \  tvayi  yantari  Rddhzyo  vidvisho  me 
vijeshyate  \  abhlshundm  hi  Karnasya  grahita  'nyo  no,  vidyate  \  rite  hi 
tvam  mahdlhdga  Vdsudeva-samam  yudhi  \  sa  pdhi  sarvathd  Karnam 
yathd  Brahmd  Mahesvaram  |).  S'alya,  however,  is  very  much  offended 
(v.  1354  f.)  that  a  person  of  his  dignity  should  be  asked  to  undertake 
the  office  of  charioteer,  and  boasts  that  he  is  superior  to  Karna,  and 
could  alone  destroy  their  enemies.  He  points  to  his  thick  arms,  which 
would  smite  like  a  thunderbolt,  and  asserts  that  he  could  by  his  own 
strength  cleave  asunder  the  earth,  scatter  the  mountains,  and  dry  up 
the  seas  (v.  1361 :  Patya plnau  mama  bhujau  vajra-samhananopamau  \  .  . 
1363:  Ddrayeyam  mahlm  kritsndm  vikireyam  cha  parvatdn  \  S'oshayeyam 
samudrdmi  cha  tejasd  svena  pdrthiva  |).  ,,He  will  not  brook  to  under- 
take the  inferior  office  of  driving  a  person  who  is  his  own  inferior217 
(v.  1365  :  Kasmdd  yunahhi  sdrathye  mchasyddhirathe  rane  \  na  mam 
adhuri  rdjendra  niyoktum  tvam  ihdrhasi  \  na  hi  pdplyasah  sreydn  bhutvd 
preshyatvam  utsahe  |).  He  threatens,  in  consequence  of  the  insult  thus 
offered  to  him,  to  go  home  (v.  1375);  and  accordingly  rises  and  goes, 
but  is  followed  by  Duryodhana,  who  endeavours  to  soothe  him  by 
saying  that  he  did  not  regard  Karna  as  superior  to  him  (v.  1379  :  Na 
Karno  'bhyadikas  tvattah\  but  considered  Karna  to  be  superior  to 
Arjuna ;  while  the  world  regarded  him  (S'alya)  as  superior  to  Krishna, 
whom  he  excelled  in  strength,  as  well  as  in  knowledge  of  horses  and 
their  dispositions,  (v.  1384:  Manye  chdbhyadhikam  S'alya  gunaih  Kar- 
nam Dhananjaydt  \  bhavantam  Vdsudevdch  cha  loko  ''yam  iti  manyate  I 
Karno  Jiy  abhyadhikah  Pdrthdd  astrair  eva  nararshabha  \  bhavdn  abhya- 
dhikah  JTrishndd  asva-jndne  bale  tathd  \  yathd  ' svahridayam  veda  Vam- 
devo  mahdmandh  \  dvigunam  tvam  tathd  vetsi  Madrardjesvardtmaja^). 
S'alya  is  flattered  by  his  being  reckoned  superior  to  Krishna,  and  agrees 
to  act  as  charioteer  to  Karna,  vv.  1387  ff. :  Yad  mam  bravlshi  Gdndhqpe 

217  He  regarded  Karna  as  what  he  was  generally  supposed  to  be,  a  Suta,  or 
charioteer,  by  caste  (suta-putrasya,  v.  1374). 


WAR  BETWEEN  ,THE  GODS  AND  ASUEAS.  223 

madhye  sainyasya,  Kaurava  \  viiishtam  Devakiputrdt  prltimdn  asmy  aham 
tvayi  |  eshff-  sdrathyam  dtishfhe  Itadheyasya  yaSasvinah  \  yudhyatah 
Pdndavdgryena  yathd  ttam  vira  manyase  \  samayas  cha  hi  me  vira 
kaschid  Vaikartanam  prati  \  utsrijeyam  yathd-iraddham  aham  vdcho  'sya 
sannidhau  \  Sanjayah  uvdcha  \  tatheti  rdjan  putras  te  saha  Kaynena 
Bhdrata  \  dbrjavld  Madra-rdjasya  matam  Bharata-sattama  \  "I  am 
pleased  with  thee,  Kaurava,  since  in  the  midst  of  the  army  thou 
declarest  me  to  be  superior  to  the  son  of  Devakl.  I  undertake  to  be 
charioteer  to  the  renowned  Kama  when  he  fights  with  the  chief  of  the 
Pandavas,  as  thou,  hero,  thinkest  [I  ought  to  do].  And  now  that  I 
have  entered  into  a  certain  agreement  with  Karna,  let  me  candidly 
excuse  to  him  the  words  I  have  used."  Sanjaya  proceeded :  "Thy  son 
(i.e.  Duryodhana)  having  assented,  declared  to  Karna  the  resolution  of 
the  king  of  the  Madras  (S'alya)." 

Though  he  had  thus  gained  his  point,  by  persuading  S'alya  to  act  as 
charioteer  to  Karna,  Duryodhana  is  nevertheless  represented  as  pro- 
ceeding, in  the  next  three ,  sections,  the  33rd-35th,  vv.  1391  ff., 
(which,  for  reasons  to  be  afterwards  assigned,  I  regard  as  probably 
interpolated,)  to  repeat  to  S'alya  an  ancient  story,  telling  how 
Brahma  had  formerly  done  duty  as  charioteer  to  Mahadeva  in  a  war 
between  the  gods  and  Asuras.  In  this  war  the  gods,  it  is  related, 
were  at  first  the  victors  (1394).  The  three  sons  of  the  Asura  Taraka 
thereupon  performed  severe  austerities,  which  induced  Brahma  to 
grant  them  a  boon  (1397).  They  asked  that  they  might  become  in- 
destructible by  any  being  whatever,  which,  however,  Brahma  declined 
to  grant,  as  immortality,  he  said,  was  not  an  universal  attribute 
(1399).  They  then  asked  that  they  should  occupy  three  castles,  and 
from  thence  move  about  the  earth  at  will,  and  that  after  a  thousand 
years  these  three  castles  should  become  united,  and  that  they  them- 
selves should  only  be  destructible  by  the  deity  who  should  be  able  to 
overthrow  the  castles  with  a  single  arrow  (1402  fF. :  Vayam  purdni 
trlny  eva  samdsthdya  mdhlm  imam  \  vicharishydmo  loke  'smin  .... 
tato  varsha-sahasre  tu  sameshydmah  parasparam  \  ekibhtivam  gamish- 
yynti  purdny  etdni  chanagJia  \  samtigatdni  chaitdni  yo  hanydd  Wiagavams 
tadd  |  ekeshund  deva-varah  sa  no  mrityur  bhqvuhyati  \ ).  Brahma  granted 
this  boon,  and  the  Asura  Maya  built  them  three  castles,  one  of  gold,  in 
heaven ;  a  second  of  silver,  in  the  air ;  and  a  third  of  black  iron,  on 


224  THE  GODS  EESORT  TQ.  MAHADEVA. 

earth218  (1406  ff.),  which  the  three  Asura  kings  above  mentioned 
severally  occupied,  and  where  innumerable  hosts  of  formidable  demons 
were  collected.  Maya,  by  his  magical  power,  g^ve  them  everything  that 
any  of  them  wished  (1415):  and  Hari,  the  son  of  Tarakaksha,  obtained 
as  a  feoon  from  Brahma  that  there  should  be  a  pond  within  their  castle, 
into  which,  when  any  Asuras  slain  in  battle  were  thrown^they  should  be 
resuscitated  and  become  stronger  than  ever  (1418  ff.'j.  Armed  with 
all  these  powers,  the  Asuras  harassed  the  worlds,  putting  to  flight  the 
celestial  hosts,  and  destroying  the  gardens  of  the  gods,  and  the  hermit- 
ages of  the  rishis  (1421  if.).  Indra  attacked  the  castles  of  the  Asuras 
with  his  thunderbolts,  but  without  effect  (1427).  He  then  went  with 
the  other  gods  to  consult  .Brahma  about  the  means  of  overthrowing 
the  titans  (1429  ff.).  Brahma  replied  that  the  castles  could  only  be 
destroyed  by  a  single  arrow,  and  that  this  could  only  be  effected  by 
Mahadeva  (1434),  to  whom  they  should  apply.  The  deities,  then, 
headed  by  Brahrna  himself,  went  to  supplicate  Mahadeva,  who  gives 
security  amid  alarms,  the  soul  of  all  things,  by  whom  the  universe  is 
pervaded,  who,  through  particular  austerities,  knows  the  "yoga"  and  the 
"  sankhya"  of  himself,  (or  of  spirit,)  and  whose  spirit  is  always  in 
subjection, — (they  went  to  supplicate  him)  practising  rites  of  austerity, 
repeating  the  eternal  Veda,  and  uttering  awful  or  fierce  hymns,  (1437  ff.: 
Tapo-niyamam  dsthdya  grinanto  trahma  sdsvatam  |  .  .  .  .  tushtuvur 
vdgbhir  ugrdbhir  bhayeshv  abhaya-dam  nripa  \  sarvatmdnam  maJidtmundiHi 
yendptam  sarvam  dtmand  \  tapo-viseshair  vividhair  yogam  yo  veda 
chdtmanah  \  yah  sdnkhyam  dtmano  vetti  yasya  chdtmd  vase  sadu  |). 
They  beheld  Mahadeva,  to  whom  a  variety  of  other  honorific  epithets 
are  applied,  such  as  "the  essence  of  all  beings,  the  unborn,  the  lord 
of  the  world"  (1442:  sarva-lhutamayam  dristitva  tarn  ajam  jagatah 
patim\}.  Mahadeva  received  them  smiling,  and  invites  them  to  state 
their  wishes  (1444).  They  then  recite  a  number  of  his  epithets 
(1445  ff.),  and  Brahma  replies  on  their  behalf  (1455  ff.)  that  he 
'  himself,  who  had  obtained  from  Mahadeva  his  rank  of  Prajapati, 
had  bestowed  a  boon  on  the  Danavas,  that  they  had  in  consequence 
transgressed  all  bounds, "and  that  now  there  was  no  one  but  Maha- 
deva who  could  destroy  them, — which  he  was  therefore  implored 
to  do.  Mahadeva  answers  (1459)  that  he  himself  alone  could  not 
218  See  above  p.  203  ;  and  the  2nd  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  378  ff. 


MAHADEVA'S  EQUIPMENT  FOE  BATTLE.  225 

destroy  them,  as  they  were  strong,  but  that,  with  the  aid  of  half  his 
strength,  they  themselves  would  bfe  able  to  conquer  their  enemies. 
They  answered  that  thejs  could  not  sustain  half  of  his  strength  (vibh- 
artum  tava  tejo  'rdham  na  sakshyamah},  but  proposed  that  he  should 
undertake  the  work,  aided  by  half  of  their  strength.  To  this  Mahadeva 
consented,  and  became  stronger  than  all  the  gods,  and  was  thenceforward 
called  Mahadeva,*or  "the  great  god,"  (ardhcfin  dddya  sarveshtim  teja&d 
'bhyadhiko  'bhavat  \  sa  tu  djsvo  balendsit  sarvebhyo  balavattarah  \  Ufahddevah 
iti  Ichydtas  tatah  prabhriti  S'anlcurah],  Mahadeva  then  (1468)  desired 
the  gods  to  provide  him  with  a  bow  and  arrows,  and  a  chariot.  The 
gods  promised  to  provide  a  chariot  which  should  be  composed  of  all  the 
forms  of  the  universe  (1469  :  murtih  sarvdh  samddhdya  trailolcyasya 
tatas  tatah  \  ratham  te  kalpayishydmah).  The  composition  of  the  car, 
formed  by  Yisvakarman  and  the  gods,  is  then  described  at  great  length 
(w.  1471-1492).  Yishnu,  Soma,  and  Agni  became  different  parts  of 
Mahadeva' s  bow  and  arrow ;  the  earth  became  his  chariot,  the  mountain 
Mandara  its  axle ;  and  the  great  river,  the  regions,  the  constellations, 
the  Krita  age,  the  serpent  Yasuki^  the  Himalaya  and  Vindhya  mountains, 
plants,  the  sun  and  moon,  day  and  night,  various  goddesses,  duty, 
truth,  the  vashatkara,  the  gayatri,  etc.,  formed  portions  of  the  car, 
or  of  its  appurtenances.  Mahadeva's  weapons  and  equipments  are 
then  specified  (1495  ff.).  At  verse  1503  it  is  repeated  that  "Yishnu, 
Agni,  and  Soma  formed  his  arrow ;  for  all  the  world,"  it  is  added,  "  is 
formed  of  Agni  and  Soma,  and  is  said  to  be  composed  of  Yishnu,  and 
Yishnu  is  the  soul  of  Mahadeva  of  bdundless  power.219  Hence  they 
could  not  abide  the  bow,  or  the  contact  of  the  bowstring  of  Hara. 
In  that  arrow  the  terrible  god,  dark-blue,  and  dusky  in  hue,  clad  in  an 
antelope's  skin,  hurled  forth  the  fire  of  wrath,  of  fierce  fury,  intolerable, 

and  sprung  from  the  rage  of  Bhrigu  and  Angiras 1507.  He  is 

the  constant  preserver  of  virtuous,  and  destroyer  of  wicked,  men.  The 
divine  Sthanu  (Mahadeva)  shines  forth  distinguished  by  these  inherent 
qualities,  which  are  destructive,  fearful  in  power,  fearful  in  form,  , 
and  rapid  as  thought.  This  whole  universe,  movable  and  immovable, 
existing  contained  in  his  members,  shone  forth,,  wonderful  to  behold." 
(Ishtis  chdpy  abhavad  Vishnur  Jvalanah  Somah  eva  cha  \  Agril-Somam 

jagat  kritsnam   Vaishnavam  chochyate  jaga!>  \   Vishnus  chdtmd  bhagavato 

•» 
219  Can  these  words  be  a  Vaishnava  addition  to  the  passage  ? 

VOL.    IV.  16 


226       MAHADEVA  DESTROYS  THE  CASTLE  OF  THE  ASURAS. 

V 

JBhavasydmita-tejasah  \  tasmdd  dJianur  jyd-samsparsam  na  viskehur 
Harasya  te  \  tasmin  iare  tigmd-manyum  mumochdsahyam  Isvarah  \ 
Bhrigv-Angiro-manyu-lhavaih  krodhdgnim  ati*dussaham  \  sa  rilla-lohito 
dhumrah  Icrittivdsdh  bhayankarah  |  .  .  .  .  1507  :  Nityam  trdtd  clia 
hant^  cha  dharmddharmdsritdn  nardn  \  pramdthibhir  bhlma-balair  bhlma- 
rupair  manojavaih  \  vibhdti  bhagavdn  Sthdnus  tair  evd tma-gunair  vritah  \ 
tasydngdni  samdsritya  sthitafh  visvam  idam  jagat  \  jangamdjangamam 
rdjan  susubhe  '  dbhuta-darsanam  \  ) 

Taking  the  arrow  produced  from  Soma,  Vishnu,  and  Agni,  Mahadeva 
mounted  the  car  which  had  been  made  for  him  (1510  ff.).  He  then 
smilingly  asked  (1515)  who  was  to  be  his  charioteer.  The  gods 
answered  that  any  one  whojn  he  should  appoint  would  undertake  that 
office.  He  then  said  that  the  god  who  was  greater  than  he  (maUah 
sreshthataro  hi  yah}  should  be  made  his  charioteer.  The  gods  next 
went  to  Brahma,  and  asked  him  to  appoint  one  (1520),  expressing  an 
opinion  that  he  himself  was  the  only  person  who  was  fit  for  the 
office  (1526).  Brahma  consented  (1530fff.).  Mahadeva  is  again  re- 
presented as  mounting  the  car,  with  the  arrow  produced  from  Vishnu, 
Soma,  and  Agni  in  his  hand  (1535).  He  then  sets  out,220  and  arrives 
at  the  triple  castle  of  the  Asuras  (1551),  when  some  of  the  Asuras  are 
destroyed  by  the  roaring  of  his  bull  (1553),  and  others  come  forth  to 
battle.  Mahadeva  becomes  insensate  with  rage.  The  three  worlds 
tremble.  The  chariot  begins  to  sink  from  the  agitation  of  Soma, 
Agni,  and  Yishnu  in  the  arrow,  when  it  is  being  fitted  on  the  string, 
and  from  the  movement  of  Brahma  and  Mahadeva.  Vishnu  then 
issues  from  a  portion  of  the  arrow  (1556),  takes  the  form  of  a  bull, 
and  raises  up  the  chariot.  Mahadeva  again  fits  his  arrow  on  the  string 
(1562),  and  discharges  it  against  the  triple  castle  (1567),  which  falls  to 
the  ground,  while  the  Asuras  are  burnt  up  and  thrown  by  Mahadeva 
into  the  western  ocean.  The  gods  praise  Mahadeva  and  depart  (1572). 
Duryodhana  now  (1575  ff.)  makes  his  application  of  this  legend  by 
'  exhorting  S'alya  to  follow  Brahma's  example,  and  act  as  charioteer  to 

220  jn  YVt  154.5  ff.  it  is  said  that  the  rishis  praised  Mahadeva,  and  increased  his 
strength  (rishayas  tatra  devlsaih  stuvanto  bahubhih  stavaih  \  tejas  chasmai  vanllia- 
yanto  rajann  asan  punah  ptmah) .  This  is  a  pure  Vedic  touch,  the  same  power  of  im- 
parting strength  to  the  gods  by  their  praises  being  occasionally  asserted  of  the  bards 
in  the  Rig-veda.  See  tfee  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  91.  In  most  of  the  texts 
there  cited,  however,  it  is  perhaps  only  meant  that  the  gods  were  gratified  by  the 
praises  addressed  to  them. 


DTJRT^DHANA  REQUESTS  S'AJVYA  TO  BE  KARNA' S  CHARIOTEER.  227 

i 

Karna.  S'alya,  he  adds,  is  superior  to  Krishna,  Karna,  and  Arjuna, 
and  as  Karna  resembled  Mahadeva  in  fighting,  so  S'alya  resembled 
Brahma  in  guiding  [a  chariot],  etc.  To  supply  additional  motives  for 
compliance,  he  then  (1581  ff.)  goe^  on  to  tell  S'alya  another  story  about 
Parasurama  performing  austerity  to  propitiate  Mahadeva  and  qbtain 
celestial  arms.,  Mahadeva  appears  to  him,  and  tells  him  he  shall  obtain 
arms  when  he  Has  qualified  himself  by  purification  to  receive  them. 
Parasurama  renews  his  austerities  and  religious  ceremonies  (1591),  and 
is  at  length  appointed  by  Mahadeva  to  slay  the  Daityas  who  had  been 
harassing  the  gods  (1599).  He  successfully  accomplishes  this  task 
(1806),  and  receives  celestial  arms  from  Mahadeva.  Parasurama  had, 
as  Duryodhana  goes  on  to  say,  taught  the. divine  science  of  archery  to 
Karna  (1613),  which  proves  that  Karna  is  free  from  sin;  and  Karna 
is  not,  as  Duryodhana  believes,  a  Suta  or  charioteer  by  birth,  but  a  son 
of  one  of  the  gods,  born  in  a  Kshatriya  family.  Eor  how  gould  a  doe 
give  birth  to  a  tiger  resembling  the  sun  (Jcatham  dditya-sadrisam  mrigl 
vydgJiram  janishyati  \  1617)?,  Duryodhana  then  recurs  to  the  legend  of* 
Brahma  becoming  Mahadeva' &  charioteer,  and  renews  his  exhortation 
to  S'alya  to  perform  the  same  office  to  Karna.  S'alya  appears  now  to 
waver  in  his  determination,  formerly  expressed,  to  comply  with  Dur- 
yodhana's  request,  as  he  replies  (1625)  that'he  himself  had  often  heard 
this  story  before ;  and  that  Krishna  also  had  no  doubt  heard  of  it,  as 
he  knows  the  future  and  the  past,  and  that  he  had  for  that  reason 
consented  to  be  the  charioteer  of  Arjuna.  And,  S'alya  adds,  if  Karna 
should  slay  Arjuna,  Krishna  would  himself  fight,  and  armed  with 
the  shell,  discus,  and  club,  burn  up  the  whole  of  Duryodhana's 
army,  and  no  prince  would  be  able  to  stand  before  him  among  his 
opponents  when  he  was  incensed,  (v.  1629  ff. :  Yadi  hanydch  cha 
JTaunteyam  Suta-putrah  kathanchana  \  drishtvd  Partham  hi  nihataih 
svayam  yotsyati  Kesavah  I  sankha-chakra-gadd-pdnir  dhaJcshyate  tava 
vahimm  \  na  clidpi  iasya  kruddhasya  Varshneyasya  mahdtmanah  \  sthd- 
syqte  pratyanikeshu  kaschid  atra  nripas  tava).  Duryodhana  in  reply  ' 
expatiates  otf  the  eminent  prowess  of  Karna,  and  of  S'alya  himself: 
(1643)  Tvam  salya-lhiitah  satrundm  avishahyaTt  pardkrame  \  tatas  tvam 
uchyase  rdjan  S'alyah  ity  ari-suclana  \  tava  bdhu-balam  prdpya  na  Sekuh 
sarva-Sdtvatdh  \  tava,  bahu-baltid  rdjan  pintu  Krishno  balddhikah  \ 
yathd  hi  Krishnenn  lalam  dhdryaih  vai  Phdlgune  hate  \  tathd  Karna,- 


228      S'ALYA  CONSENTS  TO  ACT  AS  CHARIOTEER  TO  KARN> 

tyayrihave  tvaya  dharyam  mahad  balam  \  JcimartJiam  samare  sainyam 
•  Vdsudevo  nyavdrayet  (sic)  |  kimartham  cha  bhavdn  sainyam  na  banishyati 
Mdrisha  \  "Thou  art  a  spear  (salya)  to  [piefce]  thine  enemies,  irre- 
sistible in  valour :  hence,  0  king,  destroyer  of  thy  foes,  thou  art  called 
S'aly*.221  Peeling  the  power  of  thy  arm,  all  the  Satvatas  could  not 
[resist].  But  [it  is  said  that]  Krishna  is  superior  in  force  to  the 
strength  of  thy  arm.  Just  as  great  strength  is  to  ''be  exhibited  by 
Krishna,  if  Arjuna  were  killed  ;  so  is  great  strength  to  be  put  forth  by 
thee,  if  Kama  were  slain.  "Why  should  Krishna  withstand  [our]  army? 
and  why  shouldst  not  thou  slay  the  [enemy's]  host?"  S'alya  then 
answers  (1648  ff.)  in  nearly  the  same  words222  which  had  formerly 
been  assigned  to  him  in  W.J387-9:  "I  am  pleased  with  thee,  bestower 
of  honour,  since  before  the  army  thou  declarest  me  to  be  superior  to 
the  son  of  Devaki.  I  undertake  to  be  charioteer  to  the  renowned 
Kama,"  e£c.  This  repetition  of  the  same  speech  of  S'alya  at  the  close 
of  the  episode  regarding  Hahadeva's  conquest  of  the  Asuras  with 
•Brahma  for  his  charioteer,  and  Parasur?ma's  acquisition  of  celestial 
weapons,  renders  it  probable,  as  I  have  already  said,  that  this  episode 
has  been  subsequently  interpolated.  As  S'alya  had  already  consented, 
in.  vv.  1387  ff.,  to  do  duty  as  Kama's  charioteer,  it  was  quite  unneces- 
sary to  detail  at  great  len'gth  the  legend  of  Brahma  and  Hahadeva, 
which  had  been  already  briefly  alluded  to  in  verse  1330,  and  which  is 
merely  followed  by  a  renewed  expression  of  S'alya' s  willingness  to 
comply  with  the  request  of  Kama  and  Duryodhana. 

IV.  In  various  parts  of  the  Hahabharata  Krishna  and  Arjuna  are 
singularly  represented  as  having  formerly  existed  in  the  persons  of  two 
rishis,  Narayana  and  Nara,223  who  always  lived  and  acted  together.  A 

221  In  verse  1381  the  same  thing  had  been  said  in  nearly  the  same  words :  S'alya- 
bhutas  tu  satrunam  yasmat  tvam  yudhi  manada  \  tasmat  S'alyo  hi  te  nama  Jcathyate 
prithivi-tale  \  The  repetition  of  this  idea  is  an  additional  argument  in  proof  of  the 
probiible  interpolation  of  the  passage  between  v.  1389  and  v.  1648. 
<  222  '|'ae  oniy  difference  of  reading  in  'the  two  passages  is,  that  in  the  first  line 
of  the  later  passage  the  words  agre  sainyasya  manada,  "  before  the  army,  conferrer 
of  honour,"  are  substituted  for  madhye  sainyasya  Kaurava,  "in  the  midst  of  the 
army,  O  Kaurava." 

223  In  the  Vamana-purana,  sect.  6,  quoted  in  Prof.  Aufrecht's  Catalogue,  p.  455,  it 
is  stated  that  Dharma  with  a  dftine  body  was  the  heart-born  son  of  Brahma,  that 
his  (Dharma's)  wife  was  «£.himsa,  "and  that  she  bore  to  him  Hari  and  Krishna,  and 
Nara  and  Narayana,  of  whom  the  two  former  were  devoted  to  the  practice  of  the  Yoga 


INTIMATE  CONNEXION  OF  T*HE  EISHIS  NARA  AND  NlRATANA.  229 

i 

similar  close  union  exists  between  the  two  heroes  in  the  various  transac- 
tions na^tad  in  the  great  epic.  Their  earlier  connexion  will  appear 
from  the  following  passages, 2Z4  in  which,  however,  these  two  rishis  are 
always  represented  as  possessed  o£  supernatural  or  divine  powers. 

It  is  related  in  the  Vana-parvan  (vv.  461  ff.)  that  Krishna,  having 
gone  with  other  friends  of  the  Pandus  to  visit  them  after  they  had 
retired  into  the  forest,  expressed  great  indignation  at  the  way  in  which 
they  had  been  treated  by  Duryodhana  and  his  party.  Arjuna  (one  of 
the  Pandus),  with  the  view  of  pacifying  Krishna,  recounts  (vv.  471  .ff.) 
his  marvellous  deeds  in  former  births,  his  austerities,  his  slaughter  of 
the  Daityas  and  Danavas  (478),  his  various  forms  (480),  his  three 
strides  as  the  son  of  Aditi  (484), 225  and  .his  destruction  of  various 
enemies  (487  ff.) ;  and  then  proceeds  thus  (vv.  496  ff.) : 

Tugunte  sarva-bhutdni  sankshipya  Madhmudana  \  dtmanaivdtmasdt 
kritvd  jagad  dslh  parantapa  \  yugddau  tava  Vdrshneya  ndlhi-padmdd 
ajdyata  \  Brahma  chardchara-gurur  yasyedam  sakalam  jagat  \  tarn  han- 
tum  iidyatau  ghorau  Ddnavyu  Madhu-kaitabhau  \  tayor  vyatikramam 
drishtvd  kruddhasya  bhavato  Ha^eh  \  laldtdj  jdtavdn  S'ambhuh  sula- 
pdnis  trilochanah  \  ittham  tdv  api  devesau  tvacfochharlra-samudbhavau  \ 
tvan-niyoga-lcardv  etdv  iti  me  Ndrado  'bravlt  \  tathd  Ndrdyana  purd 
kratulhir  Ihuri-dakshinaih  \  ishtavdms  tvam  mahdsatram  Krishna  Chait- 
rarathe  vane  \  naivam  purve  ndpare  vd  Jcarishyanti  kritdni  vd  \  ydni 
karmuni  deva  tvam  Idlah  eva  mahdbalah  \  kritavdn  Pundarlkdksha  Eala- 
deva-sahdyavdn\ Kaildsa-lhavane  chdpi  brdhmanair  nyavasah  saha\  Vaisam- 
pdyanah  uvdcha  \  evam  uktvd  mahdtmdnatn  dtmd  Krishnasya  Pdndavah  \ 
tushnlm  dslt  tatah  Pdrtham  ity  uvdcha  Jandrdanah  \  mamaiva  tvam 
tavaivdham  ye  madlyds  tavaiva  te  \  yas  tvdm  dveshti  sa  mum  dveshti  yen 
tvdm  anu  sa  mum  anu  \  'Naras  tvam  asi  durdharsha  Harir  Ndrdyano  hy 
aham  \  kale  lokam  imam  prdptau  Nara-Nurdyandv  rishl  \  ananyah 
Purtha  mattas  tvani  tvattas  chdham  tathaiva  cha  \  ndvayor  antaram  sak- 
yam  veditum  Bharatarshabha  \ 

>"  'At  the  end  of  the  mundane  period  (yuga\  thou,  0  Madhusudana,  ^ 

(Hridbhavo  Brahmano  yo  'sau  Dharmo  divyavapuh  sada  \  tasya  bharya  tv  Ahimsa  tu 
tasyam  ajanayat  sutau  \  Harim  Krishnaih  cha  devarshe  Nara-Narayannu  tat/ta  \ 
yogabhyasa-ratau  nityam  Hari-Krishnau  babhuva?uh). 

-21  See  also  the  extract  from  the  Drona-pavvan, 'translated  above,  p.  18-3. 

225  See  above,  p.  136. 


230  INTIMATE  CONNEXION  OF  THE  RISHIS  NARA  AND  NARAYANA. 

vexer  of  thy  foes,  having  caused  all  created  things  to  collapse,  and  by 
thyself  made  them  subject  to  thyself,  wast  the  world.  At^^e  com- 
mencement of  the  yuga,  0  Yarshneya  (Krishna),  Brahma,  the  chief 
of  things  movable  and  immovable,  whose  [is]  all  this  world,  sprang 
from  the  lotus  issuing  from  thy  navel.  Two  horrible  Danavas,  Madhu 
and  Kaitabha,  were  ready  to  slay  him.  Prom  the  forehead  of  Hari, 
who  became  incensed  when  he  saw  their  transgressio'h,  was  produced 
S'ambhu  (Mahadeva),  wielding  the  trident,  and  three-eyed.  Thus  even 
those  two  lords  of  the  gods  (Brahma  and  Mahadeva)  are  sprung  from  thy 
(Krishna's)  body,  and  they  execute  thy  commands, — this  Narada  de- 
clared to  me.  So,  too,  0  Krishna,  Narayana,  thou  didst  formerly 
celebrate  a  great  sacrifice  in  -the  Chaitraratha  forest,  with  oblations  and 
many  gifts.  The  ancients  [have]  not  [done],  nor  shall  those  who  are 
to  come  do,  the  deeds  which  thou  didst,  Pundarikaksha,  even  when  a 
child,  mighty  in  power,  accompanied  by  Baladeva.  And  thou  didst 
dwell  with  the  Brahmans  in  the  abode  of  Kailasa.'  Having  thus 
addressed  that  great  being,  the  Pandava  (Arjuna,  who  was)  the  soul  of 
Krishna,  became  silent.  Then  Janardana  (Krishna)  thus  addressed  the 
son  of  Pritha :  'Thou  a'rt  mine,  and  I  am  thine;226  those  who  are  mine 
are  thine  also.  He  who  hates  thee  hates  me;  he  who  loves  (lit,  follows, 
or  favours)  thee  loves  me.  Thou,  invincible  hero,  art  Kara,  and  I  am 
Hari  Narayana :  in  due  time  we  came  into  this  world,  the  rishis  Kara 
and  Uarayana.  Thou,  son  of  Pritha,  are  not  different  from  me,  nor,  in 
like  manner,  I  from  thee ;  no  distinction  can  be  conceived  between  us.' " 
Again,  4t  is  related  in  the  Vana-parvan  that,  with  the  view  of 
obtaining  celestial  weapons,  Arjuna,  at  the  suggestion  of  Indra 
(vv.  1513  ff.),  went  northward,  to  the  top  of  the  Himalaya,  to  see 
Mahadeva  (vv.  1526  ff.)  Arrived  there,  he  performs  austerity.  The 
rishis,  not  knowing  his  object,  are  alarmed,  and  go  to  tell  Mahadeva 
(vv.  1543  ff.),  who  assures  them  that  there  is  no  cause  for  apprehension, 
as  Arjuna  cherishes  no  ambitious  designs.  Mahadeva  then  takes  his 
'  bow  and  arrows,  and  assuming  the  form  of  a  Kirata  (barbarous 
mountaineer),  approaches  Arjuna  (vv.  1551  ff.).  At  that  moment  a 

225  The  mutual  attachment  of  Nara  and  Narayana,  or  Arjuna  and  Krishna,  may 
therefore  be  quoted  as  an  Indian*  parallel  to  the  renowned  friendships  which  are 
already  proverbial  in  the  Svestern' world,  viz.  those  of  David  and  Jonathan,  Pylades 
and  Orestes,  Damon  and  Pythias. 


ARJUNA  IS  OVERCOME  BY  MAHADEVA,  AND  YOSSHIPS  HIM.  231 


Danava,  in  the  form  of  a  boar,  is  meditating  an  attack  upon  Arjuna, 
who  prepares  to  shoot  him  with  his  arrows.  The  Kirata  desires  Arjuna 
to  allow  him  to  shoot  the"  Danava,  as  he  had  been  the  first  to  take  aim  ; 
but  Arjuna  will  not  consent  ;  and  they  both  shoot  "together,  and  kill 
the  boar.  Arjuna  addresses  the  Kirata,  and  complains  that  he  had 
acted  in  an  unsportsmanlike  manner  (na  Jiy  esho  mrigayd-dharmo  yas 
tvayd  'dya  krito  'mayi\  and  that  he  should  therefore  kill  him.  The 
Kirata  replies  that  he  hald  aimed  first,  and  had  killed  the  Danava,  and 
would  kill  Arjuna  also.  Mahadeva,  in  the  form  of  the  Kirata,  and 
Arjuna  then  fight  together  (vv.  1582  ff.)  with  a  succession  of  weapons, 
arrows,  swords,  trees,  stones,  etc.,  till  at  length  Arjuna  is  squeezed  by 
his  opponent,  and  falls  exhausted  (v.  1613).  He,  however,  revives, 
and  worships  his  enemy,  falling  at  his  feet.  Mahadeva  expresses 
admiration  of  Arjuna'  s  prowess,  and  promises  to  give  him  an  irre- 
sistible weapon  which  he  is  fit  to  wield.  The  narrative  then  proceeds 
(vv.  1622  fi7.)  :  Tato  devam  Mahddevam  Girisam  sulapdninam  \  dadarsa, 
Phdlgunas  tatra  saha  devyd  ^mahddyutim  \  sa  jdnulhydm  mahlni*gatvd 
sirasd  pranipatya  cha  \  prasddaydmasa  Haram  Pdrthah  para-puran- 
jayah  \  Arjunah  uvdcha  \  "Kapardin  sarvadevesa  Bhaga-netra-nipdtana  \ 
deva-deva  Mahddeva  riila-grlva  jatd-dhara  \  kdrandndncha  paramam 
jane  tvdm  Tryambakam  vibhum  \  devdndncha  gatim  deca  tvat-prasutam 
idam  jagat  \  ajeyas  tvam  tribhir  lokaih  sa-devdsura-mdnmhaih  \  S'ivdya 
Vi&hnu-rupaya  Vi&hnave  S'iva-rupine  \  Dahshayajna-vindidya  Hari- 
Rudrdya  vai  namah  \  laldtdkshaya  S'arvdya  mllhushe  suld-pdnaye  \ 
pindka-goptre  surydya  mdrjdllydya  vedhase  \  prasddaye  tvun&bhagavan 
sarva-lhuta-mahesvara  \  ganesam  jagatah  sambhum  loka-Jidrana-kdranam\ 
pradhdna-purushdtltam  param  sukshmataram  Haram  \ 

"  Then  Phalguna  (Arjuna)  beheld  the  god  Mahadeva,  Girisa,  bearer 
of  the  trident,  resplendent,  together  with  his  goddess.  Falling  on  the 
ground  on  his  knees,  and  bowing  his  head,  the  son  of  Pritha,  con- 
queror of  hostile  cities,  propitiated  Hara  (Mahadeva)  in  these  words  : 
'  God  with  the  spirally-braided  hair,  lord  of  all  the  gods,  extinguisher 
of  Bhaga's  eyes,  god  of  gods,  Mahadeva  (the  great  god),  blue-necked, 
\>^earer  of  matted  hair,  I  know  thee  to  be  of  causes  the  supreme, 
Tryambaka,  the  mighty,  the  refuge  of  the  gods.  From  thee  this 
world  has  been  produced.  Thou  art  invincible  ^by  the  three  worlds, 
including  the  gods,  Asuras,  and  men.  Adoration  be  to  S'iva  in  the 


232    MAHADEVA  GIVES  THE  PAS'UPATA  WEAPON  TO  AEJUNA. 

form  of  Vishnu,  to  Vishnu  in  thq  form  of  S'iva,  to  the  destroyer  of 
Daksha's  sacrifice,  to  Hari-Rudra,  to  him  with  the  frontal  eye,  to 
S'arva,  the  beneficent,  the  wielder  of  the  trident,  the  bearer  of  the 
bow,  the  SUD,  tne  Marjaliya,227  the  disposer.  I  propitiate  thee, 
divine  lord  of  all  creatures,  lord  of  troops,  benefactor  of  the  world, 
cause  of  the  causes  of  .the  world  (i.e.  ultimate  creator  of  the  im- 
mediate creators),  who  transcendest  Pradhana  and  Purusha  (matter 
and  spirit),  the  supreme,  most  subtile,  Hara.'  n 

'Mahadeva  then  embraces  Arjuna,  and  says  to  him : 

1637  ff. — Devadevah  uvacha  \  Naras  tvam  purva-dehe  vai  Ndrdyana- 
sahdyavdn  \  Badarydm  taptavdn  ugram  tapo  varshdyutdn  bahun  \ 
tvayi  vd  pdramam  tejo  Vi&knau  vd  purushottame  \  yuvdlhydm  puru- 
shdgrydlhydm  tejasd  dhdryate  jagat  \  S'akrdbhishelce  sumahad  dhanur 
jalada-nihsvanam  \  pragrihya  ddnavdh  sdstds  tvayd  Krishnena  cJia  prabho 
ityddi  \  "Thou  wast  Nara  in  a  former  body,  and  with  Narayana  for 
thy  companion,  didst  perform  dreadful  austerity  at  Badari  for  many 
myrifds  of  years.  Either  in  thee  is  the^highest  power,  or  in  Vishnu 
the  supreme  Purusha.  By  you  twain,  the  chief  of  men  (or  Purushas), 
through  your  power,  the  world  is  upheld.  At  the  inauguration  of 
S'akra  (Indra),  the  Danavas  were  chastized  by  thee  and  Krishna,  when 
thou  hadst  grasped  a  great  bow  resounding  like  the  clouds." 

Mahadeva  then  offers  Arjuna  the  choice  of  a  boon.  Arjuna  asks 
the  Pasupata  weapon  (v.  1643),  which  Mahadeva  gives  him  (v.  1650), 
though  he  cautions  him  again_st  discharging  it  rashly,  as  it  might 
destroy  fne  whole  world.  Arjuna  accordingly  receives  the  weapon 
(v.  1656). 

Again,  in  the  Udyoga-parvan  (vv.  1917  ff.)  it  is  related  that  Bhishma 
informed  Duryodhana  that  on  one  occasion  the  gods  of  different  classes 
came  to  Brahma,  and  the  narrative  then  proceeds  (vv.  1920  ff.) : 

Namaskrityopajagmus  te  loka-vriddham  Pitdmaham  \  parivdrya  cha 
visvesam  parydsata  divaukasah  \  teshdm  manas  cha  tejaschdpy  ddaddndv 
ivaujasd  \  purva-devau  vyatihrdntau  Nara-Ndrdyandv  rishl  \  Vrihasphtis 

d 

227  This  word  is  explained  in  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon  as  a  spot  to  tbe 
right  of  the  altar,  where  the  sacrificial  vessels  are  cleansed.  It  is  mentioned  in  Sayana's 
commentary  on  E.  V.  i.  1,  4 :  tand  (as  Prof.  Aufrecht  has  pointed  out  to  me)  it 
occurs  in  the  Vaj.  Sanh.  v.  32,  where  the  commentator  defines  it  as  the  place  where 
the  (sacrificial)  vessels  are  washed  (marjallyah  \  tatra  hi  pairani prakshalyante]. 


THE  GODS  SEE-NARA  AND  NARAYANA.  233 

• 

in  paprachha  Brahmdnam  kdv  imdv  iti  \  bhavantam  nopatishthete  tau  nah 
samsa  Pitdmaha  \  Brahma  uvdcha  \  ydv  etau  prithivlm  dydncha  bhdsa- 
yantau  tapasvinau  \  jvalantau  rochamanau  cha  vydpydsltau  (-nau?}  mahd- 
balau  |  Nara-Ndrdyandv  etau  loJ\dl  lokam  samdsthitau  \  urjitau  svena 
tapasd  mahdsattva-pardkramau  \  etau  hi  karmand  lokam  nandaydmdsatur 
dhruvam  \  dvidhd-bhutau  mahd-prajnau  viddh,i  brahman  parantapau  \ 
asurdndm  vindsuya  deva-gandharva-pujitau  \  Vaisampdyanah  uvdcha  \ 
jagdma  S'akras  tach  chfirutvd  yatra  tau  tepatas  tapah  \  sdrdham  deva- 

H 

ganaih  sarvair  Vrihaspati-purogamaih  \  tadd  devdsure  yuddhe  bhaye  jute 
divaukasdm  \  aydchata  mahdtmdnau  Nara-Ndrdyanau  varam  \  tdv  abru- 
tdm  vrinlshveti  tadd  Bharata-sattama  \  athaitdv  abravlch  chhakrah 
sahyam  nah  kriyatdm  iti  \  tatas  tau  S'akrnm  abrutdm  karishydvo  yad 
ichhasi\  tdbhydncha sahitahS'akro  vijigye  daitya-ddnavdn  \  Narah  Indrasya 
sangrdme  hatvd  satrun  parantapah  \  Paulomdn  Kdlakanjdmscha  sahasrdni 
satdni  cha  \  esha  bhrdnte  rathe  tishthan  bhallendpdharach  chhirah  \ 
Jambhasya  grasamdnasya  tadd  hy  Arjunam  dhave  \  esha  pare  samudrasya 
Hiranyapuram  drujat  \  jitvd»shashtim  sahasrdni  Nivdtakavachdn  rane  \ 
esha  decdn  sahendrena  jitvd  para-puranjayah  j  atarpayad  mahdbdhur 
Arjuno  Jdtavedasam  \  Ndrdyanas  tathaivdtra  bhuyaso  'nydnjaghdnaha\ 
evam  etau  mahd-'vlryau  tau  pasyata  sarndgatau  \  Vdsudevdrjunau  virau 
samavetau  mahdrathau  \  Nara-Ndrdyanau  devau  purva-devdv  iti  Srutih  \ 
ajeyau  mdnushe  loke  sendrair  api  surdsuraih  \  esha  Ndrdyanah  Krishnah 
Phdlgunas  cha  Narah  smritah  \  Ndrdyano  Naras  chaiva  sattvam  efcam 
dvidhd-kritam  \  etau  hi  karmand  lokdn  qsnuvdte  'kshaydn  dhruvdn  \  tatra 
tatraiva  jdyete  yuddha-kdle  punah  punah  \  tasmdt  karmaiva  Ikartavyam 
'  iti  hovdcha  Ndradah  \  etad  hi  sarvam  dchashta  Vrishni-chakrasya  veda- 
vit  |  sankha-chakra-gadd-hastam  yadd  drakshyasi  Kesavam  \  parydda- 
ddriam  chdstrdni  bhlma-dhanvdnam  Arjunam  \  sandtanau  mahdtmdnau 
krishndv  eka-rathe  sthitau  I  Duryodhana  tadd  tdta  smartdsi  vachanam 
mama  \ 

"  Doing  obeisance,  the  gods  approached  the  Progenitor,  the  chief  (or 
ansient)  of  the  worlds ;  and  encompassing,  they  sat  around  the  lord  of 
all.  The  two  ancient  and  surpassing  gods,  the  rishis  Nara  and  Nara- 
yaua,  deprived  them,  as  it  were,  of  thought  and  of  strength  by  their 
splendour.  Vrihaspati  inquired  of  Brahma,  'Tell  us,  0  Progenitor, 
who  these  two  are  who  do  not  approach  thee.'  Brahma  said :  '  These 
deVotees  of  mighty  strength,  burning  and  shining,  who  sit  pervading 


234  EXPLOITS  OF  KARA  AN.D  NARAYANA. 

and  illuminating  the  earth  and  the  sky,  these  are  Nara  and  Narayana, 
who  have  travelled  from  world  to  world,  strong  by  their  own  austerity, 
of  great  dignity  and  valour.  These  two  have  perpetually  gladdened  the 
world  by  their  deeds.  Know,  0  Priest,  that  these,  destroyers  of  their 
foes,  of  great  intelligence,  adored  of  gods  and  Gandharvas,  have  become 
twain  for  the  destruction(/of  the  Asuras.'  Having  heard  this,  Indra, 
accompanied  by  all  the  hosts  of  gods,  headed  by  Vrihaspati,  went  to 

the  place  where  these  two  devotees  were  performing  austerity.     Alarm 

(•j 

haying  been  at  that  time  excited  among  the  celestials  by  a  war  between 
the  gods  and  Asuras,  he  (Indra)  begged  of  the  great  Nara  and  Nara- 
yana  a  boon.  They  replied,  '  Choose.'  Then  Indra  said,  '  Let  us  be 
delivered.'  They  answered-  Indra,  '  We  will  do  what  thou  desirest.' 
And  with  their  assistance  Indra  conquered  the  Daityas  and  Danavas. 
Nara,  the  vexer  of  foes,  having  slain  in  battle  the  enemies  of  Indra, 
thousands  and  hundreds  of  Paulomas  and  Kalakanjas, — he,  standing 
in  a  whirling  chariot,  cut  off  the  head  of  Jambha,228  who  was  swallow- 
ing up  Arjuna  in  battle.  He  demolishai  Hiranyapura  (or  the  city 
of  gold),  on  the  other  side  of  the  ocean,  having  slain  in  battle  sixty 
thousand  Nivatakavachas.  The  large-armed  Arjuna,  conqueror  of 
hostile  cities,  having,  along  with  Indra,  overcome  the  gods,  satiated 
Jatavedas  (Agni,)  [with  his  oblations].  In  like  manner  Narayana  slew 
many  others.  Thus  behold  those  twain  arrived — those  twain  who  are 
of  so  great  strength,  Vasudeva  and  Arjuna,  united  together,  riders  on 
great  cars,  Nara  and  Narayana,othe  deities,  the  ancient  deities,  as  it  is 
reported,  invincible  in  the  world  of  mortals  even  by  Indra  and  the 
other  gods  and  Asuras.  This  Narayana  is  Krishna,  and  Nara  is  called 
Phalguna  (Arjuna).  Narayana  and  Kara  are  one  being,  divided  into 
twain.  These  two  through  their  works  pervade  the  undecaying  and 
perpetual  worlds.  They  are  born  at  different  places  at  the  time  of 
battle  again  and  again.  "Wherefore  Narada  said  that  works  are  to  be 
performed.  All  this  he  (Narada^  who  knew  the  Yeda  said  to  the 
avmy  of  the  Yrishnis.  "When  thou  shalt  see  Kesava  (Krishna)  wth 
his  shell,  discus  and  club,  and  Arjuna  with  the  dreadful  bow,  assuming 
his  arms,  these  two  eternal  and  glorious  beings,  of  dark  complexion, 
mounted  on  one  car, — -then.,  dear  Duryodhana,  thou  shalt  remember 
my  words."  (Compsre  the  same  warning  given  in  p.  218.) 
228  The  name  of  a  demon.  It  will  occur  again  below. 


DAMBHODBHAVA/.VANQUISHED  BY  NAKA.  235 

It  is  narrated  in  another  part  of  the  same  Udyoga-parvaii  (vv. 
3459-3488)  that,  in  order  to  persuade  the  Kurus  to  adopt  moderate 
counsels  by  showing  the' great  power  of  Arjuna  and  Krishna,  Parasu- 
rama  told  them  another  story  aborkt  the  two  rishis  Nara  and  Narayana. 
There  was  formerly,  he  says,  an  universal  sovereign  named  Dambhod- 
bhava,  who  had  an  overweening  conceit  of  hjs  own  prowess.  Being 
told  by  his  independent  Brahmans  that  there  were  two  ascetics  whom 
he  could  not  match,  viz".  Nara  and  Narayana,  he  proceeded  with  his 
army  to  the  mountain  Gandhamadana,  where  he  found  the  emaciated 
saints,  and  challenged  them  to  fight.  They  tried  to  put  him  off  by 
saying  that  they  were  divested  of  all  earthly  passions,  and  lived  in  an 
atmosphere  of  peace.  Dambhodbhava,  however,  insisted  on  fighting, 
when  Nara  took  a  handful  of  straws,  and  defied  him.  With  these 
arms  he  neutralized  all  the  arrows  of  Dambhodbhava's  host,  and  as 
the  straws  whitened  all  the  air,  and  penetrated  into  the  eyes,  ears, 
and  noses  of  the  assailants,  Dambhodbhava  was  soon  forced  to  fall  at 
Nara's  feet,  and  sue  for  pease.  Being  admonished  by  his  conqueror 
to  be  more  humble  in  future,  he  departed  homeward,  and  ever  after 
led  a  righteous  life. 

The  next  passage  on  the  same  subject  is  from  the  Drona-parvan, 
vv.  419  ff.: 

Arjunah  Kesavasyatmd  Krishna  'py  dtmd  KirltinaJi  \  Arjune  vijayo 
nityam  Krishne  klrtischa  sdsvatl  \  sarveshv  api  cha  lokeshu  Bilhatsur 
apardjitah  \  prddhdnyenawa  Ihuyishtham  ameydh  Kesave  gundh  \  mohdd 
Duryodhano  Krishnam  yo  na  vettlha  Kesavam  \  inohito  daiva-yogena 
mrityu-pdsa-puraskritah  \  na  veda  Krishnam  Ddsdrham  Arjunam  chaiva 
Pdndavam  \  purva-devau  mahdtmdnau  Nara-Ndrdyandv  ubhau  \  elcdt- 
mdnau  dvidhd-bhutau  drisyete  mdnushair  bhuvi  \  manasd  'pi  hi  durdhar- 
shau  sendm  etdiii  yasasvinau  \  ndsayetdm  ihechhantau  mdnushatvdch  cha, 
nechhatah  \ 

"Arjuna  is  the  soul  of  Kesava  (Krishna),  and  Krishna  too  is  the 
soul,  of  Kiritin  (Arjuna).  Yictory  abides  perpetually  with  Arjuna, 
and  eternal  renown  with  Krishna.  And  even  in  all  worlds  Arjuna  is 
unconquered.  Through  his  pre-eminence  there  are  infinite  virtues 
in  abundance  in  Kesava.  [The  reason  w,hy]  Duryodhana,  through 
infatuation,  does  not  know  Krishna,  is  that,  deluded  by  destiny,  and 
involved  in  the  bonds  of  death,  he  does  not  recognize  Krishna  the 


236 

Dasarha,  and  Arjuna  the  Pandava.  The  former  gods,  the  two  mighty 
ones,  !N"ara  and  Narayana,  though,  in  reality,  one  in  nature,  are  hy 
men  on  earth  seen  separated  into  two.  These  illustrious  [beings],  who 
are  invincible  even  in  imagination,  o,ould,  if  they  desired,  destroy  this 
army,  but  from  their  humanity  they  do  not  desire  it." 

Again,  in  the  Bhishma-parvan,  vv.  2932  if.,  Bhlshma  exhorts  Dur- 
yodhana  to  come  to  terms  with  the  Pandavas,  who,  he  says,  are  in- 
vincible, in  consequence  of  Krishna's  protection.  To  illustrate  Krishna's 
divine  greatness,  Bhlshma  goes  on  to  tell  a  story  of  his  being  celebrated 
by  Brahma  in  a  hymn  (2944  if.),  and  entreated  to  become  incarnate  in 
the  tribe  of  the  Yadus,  for  the  establishment  of  righteousness,  the  de- 
struction of  the  Daityas,  and  the  preservation  of  the  world  (2964  f.). 
Yishnu  assents  to  Brahma's  request,  and  disappears.  Being  then 
asked  by  the  attendant  gods  and  rishis  who  it  was  that  he  had  just 
worshipped,  Brahma  replies  as  follows  (2978  if.) : 

Yat  tat  param  bhavishyancha  lhavitd  yachha  yat  param  \  bhutdtmd 
yah  prabhus  chaiva  Brahma  yach  cha  param  padam  \  tendsmi  krita-sam- 
vddah  prasannena  surarshabhdh  \  jagato  'nugrahdrthdya  ydchito  me 
jagat-patih  \  "  mdnmham  lokam  dtishtha  Vdsudevah  iti  srutah  \  asurdndm 
badhdrthdya  sambhavasva  mahltale  \  sangrdme  nihatdh  ye  te  daitya-ddnava- 
rdkshasdh  \  te  ime  nrishu  sambhutdh  ghora-rupdh  mahdbaldh  \  teshdm 
badhdrtham  lhagavdn  Narena,  sahito  ball  J  mdnmhim  yonim  dsthdya  cha- 
rishyasi  mahl-tale  "  |  Nara-Ndrdyanau  tau  tu  purdndv  rishi-sattamau  \ 
ajeyau  hi  rane  yau  tau  sametair  amarair  api  \  sahitau  mdnushe  lake 
sambhutdv  amita-dyutl  \  mudhds  te  tau  na  jdnanti  Nara-Ndrdyandv 
rishi  |  yasydham  dtmajo  Brahma  sarvasya  jagatah  patih  \  Tdsudevo 
'nuneyo  vah  sarva-loka-maheharah  \  tathd  manushyo  'yam  iti  kaddchit 
sura-sattamdh  \  ndvajneyo  mahdviryah  sankha-chakra-gadd-dharah  \  etat 
paramakam  guhyam  etat  paramakam  padam  \  etat  paramakam  Brahma 
etdt  paramakam  yasah  \  etad  aksharam  avyaktam  etach  chhdsvatam  eva 
cha  |  etat  Purusha-sanjno  vai  glyate  jndyate  na  cha  \  etat  paramakam 
tejah  etat  paramakam  sukham  \  etat  paramakam  satyam  klrtitam  Vicva- 
karmand  \  tasmdt  surdsuraih  sarvaih  sendrais  chdmita-vikramah  \  navaj- 
neyo  Vdsudevo  mtimisho  'yam  iti  prabho  \  yas  cha  mdnusha-mdtro  'yum 
iti  bruydt  sa  manda-dhlh  \  fTrishikesam  avajndndt  tarn  dhuh  purushddha- 
mam  \  tarn  yoginanti  mahdi,mdnam  pravishtam  mdnushlm  tanum  \  yo 
'vamanyed  Vdsudevam  tarn  dhus  tumasam  jandh  \  devam  chardchardtmd- 


CELEBRATED  I>I  A  HYMN  BY  BRAHMA.  237 

t 

nam  srivatsdnkam  suvarchasam  \  padma-ndbJiaih  na  jdndti  tarn  dhus 
tdmasam  j(«ndh  \  kinta-kaustubha-dharam  mitrdndm  abhayankaram  \ 
avajdnan  mahatmanam  ghore  tamasi  majjati  |  .  .  .  3002  :  Vdrito  'si 
purd  tdta  munibMr  bhavittitmabhiji  \  md  gachha  samyugaih  tena  Vdsu- 
devena  dhanvind  \  Pdndavaih  sdrdham  iti  yat  tat  tvam  mohdd  na  budh- 
yase  \  manye  tidm  Rdkshasam  kruram  tathd  chdsi  tamo-vritah  \  tasmdd 
dvishasi  Govindam  Pdndavancha  Dhananjayam  \  Nara-Ndrdyanav  devau 
ko  'nyo  dvishydd  hi  mdndvah  \ 

"That  being  who  is  supreme,  who  is  to  be,  who  shall  continue  'to 
be  supreme,  who  is  the  soul  of  beings,  and  the  lord,  and  who  is 
Brahma,  the  supreme  existence, — it  is  with  him,  propitious,  that  I  have 
been  conversing,  0  eminent  deities.  The  lord  of  the  world  was  entreated 
by  me  [in  these  words]  to  show  favour  to  the  world:  'Do  thou,  cele- 
brated as  Vasudeva,  appear  in  the  world  of  men :  be  born  on  earth  for 
the  slaughter  of  the  Asuras.  The  Daityas,  Danavas,  and  Rakshasas  who 
have  been  slain  by  thee  in  battle,  they  are  these  who  have  been  born 
among  men,  horrible  in  form  and  great  in  might.  To  slay  them,  thou, 
the  divine  and  mighty  being,  accompanied  by  Nara,  having  entered  a 
human  womb,  wilt  act  upon  earth.'  Those  ancient  and  most  excellent 
of  rishis,  Nara  and  ]S"arayana,  who  are  invincible  in  battle  even  by  the 
united  immortals,  and  who  are  of  boundless  splendour,  have  been  born 
together  in  the  world  of  men.  Those  fools  do  not  know  these  rishis, 
Nara  and  Narayana.  He  of  whom  I,  Brahma,  the  master  of  the  whole 
world,  am  the  son,  that  Vasudeva,  the  lord  of  all  the  worlds,  is  to  be 
propitiated  by  youi  Never,  0  most  excellent  deities,  is  the  potent 
bearer  of  the  shell,  the  discus,  and  the  club,  to  be  slighted  as  a  mere 
man.  This  Being  is  the  highest  mystery,  this  the  highest  existence, 
this  the  highest  Brahma*,  this  the  highest  renown.  This  Being  is  the 
undecaying,  the  undiscernible,  the  eternal.  This  Being  which  is  called 
Purusha  is  hymned  and  is  not  known.  This  Being  is  celebrated  by 
Visvakarman  as  the  highest  power,  as  the  highest  joy,  and  as  the 
highest  truth.  "Wherefore  Vasudeva  of  boundless  might  is  not  to  be 
contemned  by  the  deities,  including  Indra,  or  by  the  Asuras,  as  a 
[m.ere]  man.  Whoever  says  that  he  is  a  mere  man  is  dull  of  com- 
prehension :  from  his  contempt  of  Hrishike^a  they  call  such  a  person  • 
the  lowest  of  men.  "Whoever  despises  Vasude^,  that  great  con- 
templator  who  has  entered  a  human  body, — men  call  that  person 


238      IT  IS  INFATUATION  TO  DESPISE  OR  HATE  KRISHNA. 

one  full  of  darkness.  Whoever  is  ignorant  of  the  glorious  god  whose 
self  is  the  world,  whose  mark  is  the  srivatsa,  from  whose  navel  sprang 
the  lotus, — men  call  that  person  a  man  full"of  darkness.  Despising 
that  great  being  who  wears  the  diadem  and  jewel  (kaustubha),  who  re- 
lieves his  friends  from  fear,  a  man  is  plunged  in  horrible  darkness."229 

Bhishma  then  says  to  Duryodhana  (v.  3302)  :  "Thou  wast  formerly, 
my  son,  prohibited  by  the  contemplative  munis  [wh6  said] :  '  Engage 
not  in  battle  with  that  archer  Yasudeva  and  the  Pandavas.'  Since 
thou,  through  infatuation,  regardest  not  this  [prohibition],  I  look 
upon  thee  as  a  cruel  Rakshasa,  and  thou  art  enveloped  in  darkness. 
It  is  for  this  reason  that  thou  hatest  Govinda  (Krishna)  and  the 
Pandava  Dhananjaya  (Arjana).  for  what  other  man  could  hate  the 
gods  Nara  and  Narayana  ?  " 

The  next  passage  is  from  the  S'anti-parvan,  where  Krishna,  after 
describing  many  of  his  own  other  forms  and  functions,  is  introduced 
as  saying  (vv.  13265  ff.) : 

Purd  'ham  dtmajah  Pdrtha  prafhitah  Ic&randntare  \  Dharmasya  Kuru- 
Sardula  tato  'ham  Dharmajah  smritah  I  Nar a- Narayanan  purvam  tapas 
tepatur  avyayam  \  dharma-ydnam  samdrudhau  parvate  Gandhamddane  \ 
tat-kdla-samaye  chaiva,  Daksha-yajno  babhuva  ha  \   na   chaivdJcalpayad 
ohdgam   DaJcsho  Rudrasya  Shdrata  \  tato  Dadhlchi-vachandd  Daksha- 
yajnam  apdharat  \  sasarja  &ulam   Icopena  prajvalantam  muhur  muhuh  \ 
tach   chhulam   bhasmasdt   Jcritcd   Daksha-yajnam   sa-vistaram  \    dvayoh 
sahasd  "gachhad  Vadary-dsramam  antikdt  \  vegena  maJiatd  Partha  patad 
Ndrdyanorasi  \   tatas  tat-tejasd  "vishtah  kesdh  Ndvdyanasya  ha  \   la- 
Ihuvur  munjavarnds  tu  tato  'ham  munja-lcesavdn  \  tachcha  sulaih  vinirdh- 
utam    humkdrena    mahdtmand    \  jagdma    S'ankara-Jcaram   Ndrdyana- 
samdhatam  \  atha  Rudrah   upddhdvat  tdv  rishl  tapasd  'nvitau  \  tatah 
enam  samudhlutam  kanthe  jagrdha  pdnind  \   Ndrdyanah  sa  visvdtmd 
tendsya  Siti-kanthatd  \  atha  Ttudra-vighatdrtham  isJiilcdm  Narah  uddh- 
arat  \  mantrais  cha  samyuyojdsu  so  'bhavat  para&ir  mahdn  \  kshiptas  cJia 
sahasd  tena  khandanam  prdptavdms  tadd  \  tato  'ham  [^yam  ?~]  Khafida- 
•    paraiuh  smritah  parasukhandandt  |  ......  1 3278.  tayoh  samlagnayor 

yuddhe  Rudra-Ndrdyandtmanoh  \  udvigndh  sahasd  Tcritsndh  sarva-lokds 
*  tadd  'bhavan  \  ndgrihndt  Pdvakah  stibhram  maJcheshu  suhutam  havih  \ 

229  This  passage  seelhs  to  have  a  polemical  aspect,  as  if  aimed  at  some  contem- 
poraries of  the  author,  who  did  not  assign  so  high  a  dignity  to  Krishna. 


KRISHNA  REFERS  TO(,HIS  OWX  FORMER  HISTORY.        239 

j 

veddh  no,  pratibhdnti  sma  rishlndm  Ihdvitdtmandm  \  devdn  rajas  tamas 
chaiva  samavivisitus  tadd  \  vasudhd  sanchakampe  cha  nabhas  cha  vipa- 
phdla  ha  \  nishpralhdni  dha  tejdmsi  Brahmd  chaivdsana-chyutah  \  agdch 
chhosham  samudras  cha  Himavdmsncha  vyasiryata  \  tasminn  eva  samut- 
panne  nimitte  Pdndunandana  \  Brahmd  vrito  deva-ganair  rishibhis  cha 
mahdtmalhih  \,  djagdmdsubham  desam  yatra  yuddham  avartata  \  so 
Jnjali-pragraho  bhutvd  chatur-vaktro  nirukta-gah  \  uvdcha  vachanam 
Rudram  "  lokdndm  astu  vat  sivam  \  nyasydyudhdni  visvesa  jagato  hita- 
Jidmyayd  \  yad  aksharam  athdvyaktam  Isam  lokasya  bhdvanam  \  kut-a- 
stham  kartri  nirdvandvam  akarteti  cha  yam  viduh  \  vyakti-lhdva-gata- 
sydsya  ekd  murtir  iyam  subhd  \  Naro  Ndrayanas  chaiva  jdtau  Dharma- 
kulodvahau  \  tapasd  mahatd  yuktau  deva-sre&hthau  mahd-vratau  \  aham 
prasdda-jas  tasya  kutaschit  kdrandntare  \  tvam  chaiva  krodha-jas  tdta 
purva-^arge  sandtanah  \  mayd  cha  sdrdham  varadaih  vibudhais  elm 
maharshihhih  \  prasddaydsu  lokdndm  sdntir  b/Mvatu  md  chirarri"  \ 
Brahmand  tv  evam  uktas  tu  Rudrah  krodhdgnim  utsrijan  \  prasddayd- 
mdsa  tato  devam  Narayanan^  prabhum,  \  saranyam  cha  jagdmddyam 
varenyam  varadam  prabhum  \  tato  'tha  varado  devo  jita-krodho  jitendri- 
yah  |  prltimdn  abhavat  tatra  Ttudrena  saha,  sangatah  \  rishibhir  Brah- 
mand chaiva  vibudhais  cha  supujitah  \  uvdcha  devam  Isdnam  isah  sa 
jagato  Harih  \  "  yas  tvdm  vetti  sa  mdm  vetti  yas  tvam  anu  sa  mum  ami  \ 
ndvayor  antaram  kinchid  md  te  bhud  buddhir  anyathd  \  adya-prabhriti 
srlvatsah  suldnko  me  bhavatv  ayam  \  mama  pdny-ankitas  chdpi  srlkanthas 
tvam  bhavisht/asi"  \  evam  lakshanam  utpddya  paraspara-kritam  tadd  \ 
sakhyam  chaivtitulayi  kritvd  Rudrena  sahitdv  rishl  \  tapas  tepatur  avya- 
grau  visrijya  tridivaukasah  \  esha  te  kathitah  Pdrtha  Ndrdyana-jayo 
mridhe  \  ndmdni  chaiva  guhydni  niruktdni  cha  Bhdrata  \  rishibhih  kathi- 
tdnlha  ydni  sanklrtitdnt  te  \  evam  bahu-vidhaih  rupais  chardmlha 
vasundhardm  \  Brahma-lokancha  Kaunteya  golokancha  sandtanam  \  mayd 
tvam  rakshito  yuddhe  'fnahdntam  pYdptavdn  jayam  \  yas  tu  te  so  'grato 
ydti  yuddhe  sampraty  tipasthite  \  tarn  viddhi  Rudram  JTauntei/a  deva- 
devam  kapardinam  \  kdlah  sa  eva  ^kathitah  krodhajeti  mayd  tava  \ 
nihatds  tena  vai  purvam  hatavdn  asi  ydn  ripun  \  aprameya-prabhdvam 
tarn  deva-devam  Umd-patim  \  namasva  devam  pfayato  visvesam  Haram 
akshayam  \  ityddi  \ 

13265.  "Formerly,  son  of  Pritha,  most  excellent  ^f  the  Kurus,  I  was 
celebrated  on  another  occasion  as  the  son  of  Dharma :  and  hence  I  was 


240  FIGHT  BETWEEN  RUDRA  >XD  NARAYAXA. 

V 

called  Dharmaja.  In  former  times  N"ara  aud  Narayana,  mounted  on  the 
chariot  of  righteousness,  performed  an  undecaying  penance,  on  the 
mountain  Gandhamadana.  At  that  conjuncture  of  time,  the  sacrifice 
of  Daksha  took  place.  Daksha  did  not  then  divide  any  share  for  Rudra, 
who  in  consequence,  at  the  suggestion  of  Dadhlchi,  swept  away  the 
sacrifice  of  Daksha,  and  in  his  anger  launched  the  trident  blazing  forth 
repeatedly.  That  trident,  after  reducing  to  ashes  the  sacrifice  of  Daksha 
with  all  its  appurtenances,  suddenly  appro?  ched  our  hermitage  at 
Badari,  and  fell  with  great  impetus  on  the  breast  of  Narayana.  The 
hair  of  Narayana,  penetrated  by  its  glow,  became  of  the  colour  of 
grass  (munja] :  from  which  I  am  called  Hunjakesavat.  The  trident 
being  repelled  by  the  gr^at  being  with  a  yell  went  back  into  the 
hand  of  S'ankara,  when  struck  by  Narayana.  Rudra  then  ran  up  to 
those  austere  rishis,  when  Narayana,  the  soul  of  all  things,  with  his 
hand  seized  him  by  the  throat,  when  he  had  thus  sprung  up :  hence 
his  (Siva's)  name  of  S'itikantha.  Nara  next  raised  a  straw  for  the 
slaughter  of  Eudra,  and  applied  to  it  saqred  texts,  whereby  it  speedily 
became  a  huge  axe.  Hastily  hurled  by  him,  the  axe  (parasu]  became 
shattered  into  fragments  (khandana),  from  which  shattering  of  the  axe, 
he  is  called  Khandaparasu."  Arjuna  here  interposes  to  ask  who  was  vic- 
torious in  this  conflict;230  when  Krishna  proceeds:  13278.  "When  Rudra 
and  Narayana  had  become  engaged  in  battle,  all  the  worlds  were  in- 
stantly distressed ;  the  fire  did  not  receive  the  shining  butter  offered  in  the 
sacrifice ;  the  vedas  were  not  revealed  to  the  contemplative  rishis ;  [the 
qualities  of]  passion  and  darkness  invaded  the  gods :  the  earth  trembled, 
the  sky  became  split ;  the  luminaries  lost  their  light ;  Brahma  fell  from 
his  seat;  the  ocean  became  dried  up,  and  the  Himavat  wasted.  When 
this  prodigy  had  arisen,  Brahma,  surrounded-  by  the  host  of  gods,  and 
the  magnanimous  rishis,  came  to  that  disastrous  place  where  the  battle 
was  raging.  The  four-faced  god  (Brahma),  the  penetrator  of  mysteries, 
with  joined  hands,  addressed  these  words  to  Rudra:  'Let  the  welfare  of 
the  worlds  be  [consulted] ;  put  dofan  thy  weapons,  lord  of  all,  from  good- 
will to  the  universe.  This  is  one  auspicious  form  of  him,  now  in  the  state 
of  manifestation, — of 'mm  whom  [sages]  know  as  the  undecaying,  un- 
discemible  [essence],  the  lord,  the  creator  of  the  world,  the  supreme,  the 
doer,  unaffected  bytpleasure  or  pain,  and  not  the  doer, — [this  I  say  is 
230  See  above,  pp.  176  f. 


RECONCILIATION  ()F  RUDRA  AND  NARAYANA.  241 

one  form  of  him,  viz.],  Nara  and  Narayana,  born  in  the  race  of  Dharma, 
distinguished  by  intense  austerity,  eminent  gods,  great  devotees.  I  was 
once  on  another  occasion  born  as  the  offspring  of  his  good  pleasure,  and 
in  a  former  creation  thou  didst  spning  from  his  anger,231  an  everlasting 
[being].  Together  with  me  and  the  gods  and  rishis,  do  thou  speedily 
propitiate  this  bestower  of  boons;  let  the  worlds  have  tranquillity 
without  delay.'  ^eing  thus  addressed  by  Brahma,  Rudra,  abandoning 
the  fire  of  anger,  then  propitiated  the  god  Narayana,  the  lord;  and 
the  god  sought  as  his  refuge  the  primeval,  most  excellent,  boon-bestow- 
ing lord.  Then  the  boon-bestowing  god,  who  had  conquerfd  anger  and 
overcome  his  senses,  meeting  Rudra,  became  gratified.  Being  wor- 
shipped by  the  rishis,  by  Brahma,  and  by  the  gods,  Hari,  the  lord  of 
the  world,  addressed  the  god  Isana  (Mahadeva) :  '  He  who  knows  thee 
knows  me ;  he  who  loves  (lit.  favours)  thee  loves  me.232  There  is  no 
distinction  between  us:  do  not  thou  entertain  any  other  idea.  From 
this  day  forward  let  this  Srlvatsa  of  mine  t>e  the  mark  of  the  trident : 
and  thou  shalt  be  the  srikantba  marked  upon  my  hand.'  Having  thus 
created  a  mark  devised  by  each  for  the  other,  and  having  joined  an 
incomparable  friendship  with  Rudra,  the  two  rishis  practised  austerity 
undisturbed,  after  dismissing  the  gods.  This,  son  of  Pritha,  which  I 
have  told  thee,  was  the  victory  of  Narayaha  in  battle :  and  [my] 
mysterious  and  unexplained  names,  too, — those  which  are  celebrated 
by  the  rishis,  have  been  declared  to  thee.  In  this  manner  do  I  frequent 
this  earth  and  the  world  of  Brahma,  ajid  the  everlasting  Groloka,  in 
manifold  forms.  By  me  thou  hast  been  preserved  in  battle,  and  hast 
gained  a  great  victory.  But  know,  son  of  Kunti,  that  he  who  goes 
before  thee  in  the  conflict  which  has  now  arrived,  is  Rudra,  the  god 
of  gods,  with  spirally-braided  hair.  He,  Time,  has  been  declared  by 
me  to  thee  to  be  the  offspring  of  my  anger.  The  enemies  whom  thou 
formerly  slewest  were*  slain  by  him.  Devoutly  reverence  him  the 
god  of  gods,  the  lord  of  Uma,  of  boundless  power,  Hara,  the  undecay- 
ing  Iqrd  of  all."  ' 

Again,  in  the  S'anti-parvan,  Vaisampayana  tells  Janamejaya  how 
Nar,ada,  after  returning  from  S'veta  Dvlpa,  saw  the  two  saints,  Nara 
and  Narayana  (v.  13337) :  , 

231  See  verses  13140  and  13145  of  the  S'anti-parvan,  quoted  below. 

232  A  similar  expression  has  already  occurred  above,  p.  230. 

VOL.  iv.  "*  ^  16 


242  DESCRIPTION  OF  NARA-AND  NARAYANA. 

^ 

Nipapdta  cha  khdt  turnam  visdldm  Vadarim  ami  \  tatah  sa  dadrise 
devau  purdndv  rishi-sattamau  \  tapas  charantau  sumahad  dtma-nishthau 
mahd-vratau  \  tejasd  'Ihyadhikau  surydt  sarva'loka-virochandt  \  srlvatsa- 
lakshanau  pujyaujatd-mandala-dhdrinau  \  jdla-pdda-lhujau  tau  tu  pdda- 
yos  chakra-lakshanau  \  vyudhoraskau  dirgha-bhujau  tathd  mushka-chatu- 
shkinau-  \  shasti-dantdv  ashta-damshtrau  meghaugha-jadrisa-svanau  \ 
svdsyau  prithulaldtau  cha  subhru  su-hanu-ndsikau  \  titapatrena  sadrise 
sirasl  devayos  tayoh  \  evam-lakshana-sampannau  mahd-purusha-sanjnitau  \ 
t$u  drishtvd  Ndrado  hrishtas  tdlhyam  cha  pratipujitah  \  svdgatendbhi- 
IhdsJiydtha  ^yrishtas  chdndmayaih  tathd  \  labhuvdntargata-matir  ni- 
rlkshya  purushottamau  \ 

"  He  descended  rapidly  ,from  the  sky  to  the  spacious  Badari.  There 
he  saw  the  ancient  gods,  the  two  most  excellent  rishis,  performing  severe 
penance,  self-sustained,  great  devotees,  in  splendour  surpassing  the 
sun  which  illuminates  all  the  worlds,  bearing  the  srivatsa  mark, 
adorable,  wearing  a  circle  fcf  matted  hair,  web-footed  and  web-armed, 
with  the  mark  of  the  discus  on  thei»  feet,  broad-chested,  long-armed, 
with  four  testicles,  sixty  teeth  and  eight  grinders,  with  voices  sonorous 
as  a  host  of  clouds,  with  beautiful  countenances,  broad  foreheads,  hand- 
some eyebrows,  chins,  and  noses.  The  heads  of  those  two  gods  re- 
sembled umbrellas.  Beholding  them,  distinguished  by  such  marks, 
and  named  the  two  great  males,  Narada  rejoicing,  and  saluted  by  them 
in  return,  welcomed,  and  questioned  in  regard  to  his  health,  became 
absorbed  in  reflection,  beholding  those  highest  of  persons."  He  then 
recollected  to  have  previously  seen  them  in  the  SVeta  Dvlpa.  Nara 
and  Narayana  next  ask  him  if  he  had  seen  in  the  SVeta  Dvlpa  the 
supreme  Spirit,  their  own  highest  substance  (Qvayoh  prakritih  pard]. 
He  replies  that  he  had ;  and  that  now  when  L'e  beheld  them  he  beheld 
Him,  as  they  were  distinguished  by  all  the  same  marks,  in  a  manifested 
form,  as  Hari  possessed  in  an  invisible  manner;  and  that  he  had  on 
that  occasion  beheld  them  at  the  side  of  the  deity  (vv.  13351  ff.  : 
Adydpi  chainam  past/ami  yuvdm'a  pasyan  sanutanau  \  yair  lakshanair 
upetah  sa  Harir  avyakta-rupa-dhrik  \  tair  lakshanair  iipetau  hi  vyakta- 
rupa-dharau  yuvdm  \  drishtau  yuvdm  mayd  tatra  tasya  devasyapdrsvatoh). 
Some  further  conversation  ensues;  and  it  is  then  related  (v.  13397  f.) 
that  Narada  remained  a  tnousand  years  of  the  gods  in  their  hermitage, 
worshipping  the  deity,  and  Nara  and  Narayana. 


LASSEN'S  REMARKS  ON  KRISHNA :  THE  NARAYANAS.       243 

> 

V.  In  the  following  passage  (which  is  commented  upon  by  Lassen 
in  his  Indian  Antiquities,  1st  ed.,  i.  ^521  f.,  and  note,  p.  622  ;  2nd  ed., 
pp.  768  ff.233)  Krishna  is  represented  as  possessed  of  extraordinary 
prowess  and  superhuman  powers  ;  but  he  is  not,  unless  it  be  in  one  or 
two  places,  represented  as  the  supreme  deity. 

To  show  ho.w  little  prospd^;  the  Kurus  had  of  vanquishing  the 
Pandus,  aided  as»the  latter  were  by  Krishna,'  Dhritarashtra  gives  an 
account  of  the  exploits  of  the  Yadava  chief : 

233  His  remarks  are  as  follows :  — "  The  history  of  Krishna  in  the  Mahabharata 
does  not  describe  his  juvenile  life  with  the  cowherds,  and  his  numerous  adventures 
with  their  wives,  which  at  a  later  period  were  especially  noticed  and  celebrated.  On 
the  other  hand,  victories  over  many  kings  and  tribes  are  attributed  to  him,  which 
possess  no  historical  value,  and  are  only  important  in  so  far  as  they  represent  him  as 
a  hero,  and  indicate  that  the  Yadavas  waged  frequent  wars  with  the  tribes  of  ancient 
India.  In  a  short  enumeration  of  his  feats  (the  passage  quoted  in  the  text)  he  is 
named  Govinda,  or  the  proprietor  of  cows,  and  it  said  of  him  that  he  grew  up  among 
the  herds.  None  of  the  stories  regarding  him  and  the  cowherds'  wives  are  here 
mentioned;  but  another  is  introduced  which  describes  him  as  a  protector  of  the 
herds,  inasmuch  as  he  strangled  with  his  arms  a  Danava  which  in  the  form  of  a 
bull  slaughtered  the  cattle.  His  pfoper  and  oldest  name  as  the  sou  of  Nanda  was 
probably  Govinda.  There  must  also  have  been  stories  about  him  in  which  he  was 
represented  as  a  leader  of  cowherds,  for  according  to  the  Mahabharata  he  supplied 
to  Duryodhana  (by  whom  he  had  been  solicited  to  assist  him  in  the  great  battle) 
thousands  of  cowherds,  who  are  called  the  gopas  of  Narayana.  These  take  no  share 
in  the  battle,  and  are  very  seldom  mentioned. — See  Udyoga-parvan,  v.  130  ff. ;  and 
Drona-parvan,  vv.  3255  ff.,  where  the  Narayanas,  the  cowherds,  are  spoken  of  along 
with  the  Kambojas,  etc.,  as  having  been  conquered  by  Karna,  etc.  (Narayanas  cha 
gopalah  Kambojanancha  ye  ganah  \  Karnena  vijitah  \  ) 

The  Narayanas  are  also  mentioned  in  the  Dronap.  752  and  759  (see  Bohtlingk  and 
Roth,  s.  v.}. 

Krishna,  when  applied  to  by  Duryodhana,  as  well  as  by  Arjuna,  for  aid  in  the 
impending  conflict,  promises  succour  to  them  both,  but  allows  Arjuna  the  first  choice: 

Udyoga-parvan,  vv.  147  ff- — Mat-samhanana-tulyanam*  gopanam  arbudam  mahat\ 
Narayanah  iti  khyatah  sarw  sangrama-yodhinah  \  te  va  yudhi  duradharshah  bha- 
vantv  eJcasya  sainikah  \  ayudliyamanah  sangrame  nyastasastro  'ham  ekatah  \  abhyam 
ainjataram  Partha  yat  te  hridyataram  matam  \  tad  vrirviam  bhavan  agre  pravaryas 
tvam  hi  dharmatah  \  "  Lefone  of  you  either  take  those  invincible  soldiers,  the  great 
hundred  millions  of  herdsmen  called  Narayanas,  whose  bodies  are  equal  to  my  own, 
and  who  are  all  fighting  men-,  or  let  him  take,  on  the  other  hand,  myself  who  do  not 
engrge  in  battle,  and  have  laid  aside  my  weapons.  Do  thou,  son  of  Pritha,  first 
choose  the  one  of  these  two  things  which  is  most  acceptable  to  thee ;  for  thou  art 
justly  entitled  to  the  preference."  •» 

Arjuna  selects  Krishna  himself,  "  the  unborn  Narayana,  destroyer  of  his  foes,  who 
had  been  at  his  will  born  among  men"  (Narayanam^amitrayhnam  kamaj  jatam  ajarh 
tirishzt),  though  he  was  not  to  fight.  Duryodhana  qhose  the  army  of  warriors. 

*  The  word  samhanana  occurs  also  in  the  Drona-parvan,  v.  147. 


244  DHRITARASHTRA'S  ACCOUNT  OF 

•\ 

Drona-parvan,  382. — Dhritardshtrah  uvdcha  \  srinu  divydni  karmdni 
Vdsudevasya  Sanjaya  \  kritacdn  ydni  Govindo  yathd  ndnyah  pumdn 
Jcvachit  I  samvardhatd  gopa-kule  bdlenawa  mahdtmand  \  vikhydpitam 
balam  bdhvos  trishu  lokeshu  Sanjaya  \  Uchchhaihsravas-tulya-balam  vdyu- 
vega-samam  jave  \  jaghdna  Haya-rdjdnam  Yamund-vana-vdsinam  \  Ddna- 
vam  ghora-karmdnam  gavdm  mrityum  %>otthitam  \  vristia-rupa-dharam 
bdlye  bhujdbhydm  nijaghdna  ha  \  Pralambham  Narakam  Jambham 
Plfham  vd  'pi  mahdsuram  \  Muram  chdmara-san/cdsam  abadhlt  pushka- 
rekshanah  \  tathd  Kamso  mahdtejdh  Jardsandhena  pdlitah  \  vikramenaiva 
Srishnena  saganah  pdtito  rane  \  Sundmd  rana-vikrdntah  samagrdkshau- 
hinl-patih  \  Bhoja-rdjasya  madhya-stho  bhrdtd  Kanisasya  mryavdn  \ 
Baladeva-dvitiyena  JTrishnendmitra-ffhdtmd  \  tarasvl  samare  daghdah  sa- 
sainyah  S'urasena-rdt  \  Durvdsdh  ndma  viprarshis  tathd  parama- 
kopanah  \  drddhitah  saddrena  sa  chdsmai pradadau  varan  \  tathd  Gdndhdra- 
rujasya  sutdni  vlrah  svayamvare  \  nirjitya  prithivl-pdldn  dvahat  pushka- 
rekshanah  \  amrishyamdndh  rdjdno  yasya  jdtydh  haydh  iva  \  rathe  vai- 
vdhike  yuktdh  pratodena  krita-vrandh  \  Jardsandham  mahdbdhum  upd- 
yena  Jandrdanah  \  parena  ghdtaydmdsa  samagrdkshauhinl-patim  \  Chedi- 
rajdncha  vikrdntam  rdja-send-patim  ball  \  arghe  mvadamdnancha  jaghdna 
pasu-vat  tadd  \  Saubham  daitya-puram  svastham  S'dlva-guptam  durd- 

sadam  \  samudra-kukshaii  vikramya  pdtaydmdsa  Mddhavah  \ 

v.  400  :  Pravisya  makardvdsam  yddobhir  abhisamvritam  \  jigdya  Varu- 
nam  sankhye  salildntargatam  purd  \  yudhi  Panchajanam  hatvd  pdtdla- 
tala-vusinam  \  pdnchajanyam  Hrishlkeso  divydm  sankham  avdptavdn  \ 
Khdndave  Pdrtha-sahitas  toshayitvd  Hutdsanam  \  dgneyam  astraih  dur- 
dharsham  chakraih  lebhe  mahdbalah  \  Vainateyam  samdruhya  trdsayitvd 
'tiiardvatlni  \  Mahendra-bhavandd  vlrah  pdrijdtam  updnayat  \  tachcha 
marshitavdn  S'akro  jdnams  tasya  pardkramam  \  rdj'ndm  chdpy  ajitam 
kanclrit  Krishneneha  na  susruma  \  yaohcha  tadmahaddscharyam  sabhdydm 
mama  Sanjaya  \  kritavdn  Pundarlkdkshah  kas  tad-vnya  ihdrhati  \  labdha- 
bhaktyd  prasanno  'ham  adrdksham  Krishnam  Isvaram  \  tad  me  suviditam 
sarvam  pratyaksham  iva  chdgaman  \  ndntam  vikrama-yuktasya  buddhyd 
yuktasya  vd  punah  \  karmand  sakyate  gantum  Hrishikesasya  Sanjaya  \ 

tathd  Gadas  cha  S'amba<icha  Pradyumno  'tha  Vidurathah  \ 

4 1 U  :  Ete  'nye  balavantas  cha  Vrishni-vlrdh  prahdrinah  \  kathanchit 
Pdndavdriikam  irayeyuh  samare  sthitdh  \  dhutdh  Vrishni-mrena  Kesavena 
mahatmdnd  \  tatah  samsayitam  sarvam  bhaved iti  matir  mama  \  ndgdyuta- 


KRISHNA'S  TARIOUS  EXPLOITS.  245 

i 

halo  virah  Kaildsa-sikharopamah  \  vajia-mdll  hall  Rdmas  tatra  yatra 
Jandrdanah  \  yam  ahuTi  sarva-pitaram  Fdsudevam  dvijdtayah  \  api  vti  hy 
esha  Pdndiindm  yotsyate  Jrthdya  Sanjaya\  sa  yadd  tdta  sannahyet  Panda- 
vdrthdya  Sanjaya  \  na  tadd  pratisafityoddhd  bhavitd  tasya  kaichana  \  yadi 
sma  Kuravah  sarve  jayeyur  ndma  Pdndavdn  \  Vdrshneyo  'rthdya  teshdm 
vai  grihniydt  sa'stram  ^lttamam  \  tatah  sarvdn  yaravyaghro  hatvd  nara- 
patln  ram  \  Eauravdm&  cha  mahdbdhuh  Kuntyai  dadydt  sa  mediriim  \ 
yasya  yantd  Hrishlkeso  yoddhd  yasya  Dhananjayah  \  rathasya  tasya  kah 
sankhye pratyariiko  bhaved  rathah  \  na  kenachid  ypdyena  Kurundm  drisyale 
jayah  \  tasmdd  me  sarvam  dchakshva  yathd  yuddham  avartata  \  Z34 

"  Dhritarashtra  says :  Hear,  Sanjaya,  the  divine  acts  of  Krishna, 
which  Govinda  performed,  such  as  no  other  person  [ever  did].  "While 
he  was  growing  up  as  a  high-souled  boy  in  the  tribe  of  cowherds,  the 
force  of  his  arms  was  rendered  famous  by  him  in  the  three  worlds. 
He  slew  the  king  of  the  Hayas  [horses],  dwelling  in  the  woods  of  the 
Yamuna,  equal  to  Ucchaihsravas  (the  horse  of  Indra)  in  strength,  and 
to  the  wind  in  speed.  In  his  <!hildhood  he  destroyed  with  his  arms  the 
Danava,  a  doer  of  direful  deeds,  who  arose,  as  it  were,  the  Death  of 
cattle,  bearing  the  form  of  a  bull.  The  lotus-eyed  [hero]  slew  Pra- 
lambha,  Naraka,  Jambha  and  Pitha,  the  great  Asura,  and  Mura,  re- 
sembling the  immortals.  So,  too,  Kansa,  of  great  force,  supported  by  Jara- 
sandha,  was,  with  his  hosts,  overthrown  in  battle  by  Krishna,  through 
his  valour.  Sunaman,  valiant  in  fight,  the  lord  of  a  complete  army,  the 
brother  of  Kansa,  who  interposed  for  the  king  of  the  Bhojas,  the  bold  and 
heroic  prince  of  the  S'urasenas,  was,  with  his  army,  burnt  up  in  battle 
by  Krishna,  destroyer  of  his  enemies,  seconded  by  Balarama.  And 
a  Brahman  rishi  called  J^urvasas,  extremely  irascible,  was  worshipped 
by  him  (Krishna),  together  with  his  wife,  and  bestowed  on  him 
boons.235  So,  too,  the  lotus-eyed  hero,  having  conquered  the  princes, 
carried  off  the  daughter  of  the  king  of  the  Gandharas  at  the  Swa- 
yamvara : 236  and  the  princes,  beinsj  unable  to  endure  him,  were 

234  ^Towards  the  close  of  Dhritarashtra' s  speech  the  following  verse  of  a  proverbial 
character  occurs : — v.  429:  PakvatiaTn  hi  badhe  Suta  vajrayante  trinany  api  \  "  When 
meq  are  ripe  for  destruction,  even  straws  smite  like  thunderbolts." 

235  See  the  Anus'Osana-parvan,  vv.  7402  ff.,  referred  to  above,  p.  196. 

236  Lassen,  Ind.  Alt.  i.,  622,  first  edition  (p.  769,  second  edition),  note,  thinks  this 
story  has  probably  some  foundation  in  fact,  and  adds  that  »Nagnajit,  king  of  the 
GdndhSras,  is  mentioned  in  the  Ait.  Br.,  vii.  34.     See  Colebrooke's  Essays,  i.  46, 
and  the  second  volume  of  this  work,  p.  353, 


246       HOPELESSNESS  OF  CONTENDING  AGAINST  KRISHNA. 

V 

yoked  like  highbred  horses  to  the  bridal  car,  and  wounded  with  the 
goad.  Janardana,  by  a  clever  device,  caused  Jarasandha,  the  large- 
armed,  lord  of  a  complete  army,  to  be  slain.237  This  hero  also 
slaughtered  like  a  beast  the  king  ef  the  Chedis  (see  above,  p.  215), 
the  valiant  lord  of  a  royal  army,  who  quarrelled  regarding  the  offering 
[made  to  Krishna].  Assailing  Saubha,  the  self-supporting  (i.e.  flying) 
city  of  the  Daityas,  on  the  shore  of  the  ocean,  protected  by  the  S'alva 
(king),  and  difficult  to  destroy,  Madhava  overthrew  it."  [Then  fol- 
lows a  list  of  numerous  Bribes,  Angas,  Bangas,  etc.,  etc.,  conquered 

by  Krishna.] v.  400:    "Entering  of  old  the  ocean, 

filled  with  marine  monsters,  he  overcame  in  battle  Yaruna,  who  had 
sunk  within  the  waters.  Having  slain  in  battle  Panchajana  dwelling 
in  Patala,  Hrishlkesa  obtained  the  divine  shell  Panchajanya.  Having, 
along  with  Partha  (the  son  of  Pritha,  Arjuna),  propitiated  Agni 
in  Khandava,  this  mighty  being  acquired  the  irresistible  fiery  weapon, 
the  discus.238  Mounted  on  Garuda,  and  terrifying  Amaravat!  (the 
city  of  Indra),  this  hero  brought  back  the  parijata  from  the  abode  of 
the  elder  Indra.239  And  to  this  8'akra  submitted,  knowing  his  prowess. 
And  we  have  not  heard  of  any  of  the  kings  who  has  not  been  con- 
quered by  Krishna.  Then  who  but  Pundarlkaksha  could  have  per- 
formed that  very  wonderful  act  which  he  did  in  my  assembly  ? 
Through  the  faith  which  I  had  attained,  I  beheld  Krishna,  the  lord, 
\vith  delight;  of  all  that  I  was  well  assured,  and  I  obtained  as  it 
were  a  distinct  vision.  ~No  pne  can  by  act  attain  to  the  limit  of 
Hrisbikesa  who  is  distinguished  by  valour  as  well  as  by  wisdom. 
And  Gada  also,  and  S'amba,  and  Pradyumna,  and  Yiduratha,  [here 
follows  a  list  of  other  warriors]  these,  and  other  powerful  martial 
heroes  of  the  Yrishni  tribe,  summoned  by  the  great  Yrishni  hero, 
Kesava,  will  join  in  some  way  the  host  of  the  Pandavas,  and  stand 
up  in  the  battle.  Hence,  in  my  opinion,  everything  will  be  doubtful. 
Wherever  Janardana  is,  there  is  also  the  hero  Eaina,  in  strength 
equal  to  ten  thousand  elephants,  resembling  the  summit  of  Kailasa, 
wearing  a  garland  of  wild  flowers,  and  carrying  a  plough.  Or  Yasu- 
deva,  he  whom  the  Brahmans  call  the  universal  father,  will  fight  for 

237  See  the  story  as  told  in  the"  Sabha-parvan,  vv.  848  ff. 

233  Compare  note  189',  p.  191 ;  and  see  Adi-parvan,  Y.  8196,  where  the  story  is  told. 

239  See  Wilson's  Vishnu  Puruna,  pp.  585  ff.  (vol.  v.,  pp.  97  ff.,  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.). 


ANOTHER  ACCOUNT  OF  KRISHNA'S  PROWESS.  247 

'  > 

the  Pandavas.  "When  he  shall  arm  [for  battle]  on  their  behalf,  no 
one  shall  then  stand  up  to  encounter  him.  Even  if  all  the  Kurus 
were  to  overcome  the  Pandavas,  Varshneya  (Krishna)  would  on  be- 
half of  the  latter  seize  his  pre-eminent  weapon ;  and  having  then 
slain  all  the  princes  and  the  Kauravas  in  battle,  this  great-armed  and 
tiger-like  man,(^.  man- tiger)  would  bestow  the  earth  on  Kunti. 
What  chariot  cad  stand  in  the  conflict  against  that  chariot  of  which 
Hrishikesa  is  the  driven^  and  on  which  Dhananjaya  (Arjuna)  fights? 
By  no  contrivance  does  the  victory  of  the  Kurus  appear  [to  be  possible]. 
Give  me  therefore  a  full  account  of  the  way  in  which  the  battle  pro- 
ceeded." 

Then  follow  the  verses  which  have  beep  already  quoted  above  in 
p.  235,  Arjunah  Kesavasydtmd,  "  Arjuna  is  the  soul  of  Kesava,"  etc- 

Another  account  of  Krishna's  exploits  is  given  in  the  Udyoga-parvan. 
It  is  there  related  that  Sanjaya  had  been  sent  on  an  embassy  to  the 
Pandus,  and  that  on  his  return  he  reported  to  the  chiefs  of  the  Kurus 
the  defiant  answer  which  Arjuna  had  given.  The  latter  chief  pro- 
phesied that  Duryodhana  would  certainly  repent  having  engaged  in 
conflict  with  himself  and  Krishna  (vv.  1863  if.)  He  then  enlarges  as 
follows  on  the  prowess  of  Krishna  (vv.  1875  ff.) : 

Purvdhne  mum  krita-japyaih  kaddchid  viprah  provdchodakdnte  ma- 
nojnam  \  kartavyam  te  dushkaram  karma  Pdrtha  yodhavyam  te  satrubhih 
Savyasdchin  \  Indro  vd  te  harimdn  vajra-hastah  purastdti,  ydtu  samare 
'rln  viniglman  \  Sugrlva-yuktena  rathena  vd  te  paschdt  Krishna  rakshatu 
Vdsudevah  \  vavre  chdham  vajra-hastdd  Mahendrdd  asmin  yuddhe  Vd&u- 
devam  sahdyam  \  sa  me  laldho  dasyu-ladhdya  Krishno  manye  chaitad 
vihitam  daivatair  me  \  sa  Idhulhydm  sdgaram  uttitlrshed  mahodadhim 
salilasydprameyam  \  tejdsvinam  Krishnam  atyanta-suram  yuddhen^  yo 
Vdsudevafh  jiglshet  \  giriih  sa  ichhet  tu  talena  bhettum  silochayairi  svetam 
atipramdnam  \  tasyaitfa  pdnih  sa-nakho  visiryed  na  chdpi  kinchit  sa  gires 
tu  kurydt  \  agnim  samiddham  samayed  bhujdbhydm  chandrancha  sur- 
yanyha  nivdrayeta  \  hared  devdndrfi  amritam  prasaJiya  yuddhena  yo 
Vdsudevafh  jiglshet  \  yo  Rukminlm  eka-rathena  Bhojun  utsddya  rdjnah 
samare  prasahya  \  uvdha  Ihdrydm  yasasd  jvala&tim  yasydmjajne  Eauk- 
mineyo  mahdtmd  \  ayam  Gdndhdrdms  ta^asd  sampramathya  jitvd  putrdn 
NagnajitaTi  samagrdn  \  laddham  mumocha  pinadantam  prasahya  Sudar- 
sanam  vai  devatdndrh  laldmam  \  ayam  kapdtena  jaghdna  Pdndyam  tathd 


248  ARJUNA'S  EULOGY  OF  KRISHNA 

Kalingdn  Dantakure  mamarda  \  anena  dagdhd  varsha-pugdn  anclthd 
Vdrdnasl  nagarl  sambalhiiva  \  aya'Ji  sma  yuddhe  manyate  'nyair  ajeyam 
tarn  Ekalavyam  ndma  Nishdda-rdjam  \  vegeneva  iailam  alhihatya  Jambhah 
sete  sa  Krishnena  hatah  pardsuh  \  tathograsenasya  sutam  sudushtam 

J, 

Vrishny-Andhakdndm  madhya-gatam  salhd-stham  \  apdtayad  Baladeva- 
dvitlyo  hatvd  dadau  chograsendya  rdjyam  \  ayam  Saubhafii  yodhaydmdsa 
svastham  vibhishanam  mdyayd  S'dha-rdjam  \  Saubt.a-dvdri  pratya- 
grihndt  sataghriim  dorlhydm  hah  enam  visaheta  martyah  \  Prdgjyotisham 
ndma  labhuva  durgam  puram  ghoram  Asurdndm  asahyam  \  mahdlalo 
Narakas  tatra  Bhaumo  jahdrdditydh  mani-kundale  subhe  \  na  tarn  devdh 
saha  S'aJcrena  sekuh  samdgatdh  yudhi  mrityor  alhitdh  \  drishtvd  cha  tarn 
vilcramam  ITesavasya  balam  tafhaivdstram  avdraniyam  \  jdnanto  'sya 
prakritim  Kesavasya  nyayojayan  dasyu-ladhaya  Krishnam  \  sa  tat  karma 
pratisusrdva  dushkaram  aisvaryavdn  siddhishu  Vdsudevah  \  nirmochane 
shat  sahasrdni  hatvd  sanchhidya  pdsdn  sahasd  IcsJiurdntdn  \  Murafii 
hatvd  vinihatyaugha-raksho  nirmochanam  chdpi  jagdma  vlrah  \  tatraiva 
tendsya  labKuva  yuddham  mahdlalendtilalasya  Vishnoh  \  6ete  sa  Krishnena 
hatah  pardsur  vdteneva  mathitah  karnikdrah  \  dhritya  Krishna  mani- 
kundale  te  hatvd  cha  Bhaumam  Narakam  Murancha  \  sriyd  rrito  yasasd 
chaiva  vidvan  pratydjagdmdpratima-prabhdvah  \  asmai  varan  adadaihs 
tatra  devdh  drishtvd  bhlmam  karma  kritam  rane  tat  \  "  sramas  cha  te 
yudhyamdnasya  na  sydd  dkdse  chdpsu  cha  te  kramah  sydt  \  sastrdni 
gdtre  na  cha  te  kramerann"  ity  eva  Krishnas  cha  tatah  kritdrthah  \ 
evam-rupe  Vdsudeve  'prameye  mahdbale  guna-sampat  sadaiva  \  tarn  asa- 
hyam Vishnum  ananta-mryam  dsamsate  Dhdrtardshtro  vijetum  \ 

"  Once,  in  the  forenoon,  when  I  had  muttered  my  prayers,  and  con- 
cluded my  ablutions,  a  Brahman  addressed  to  me  these  pleasant  words : 
'  Son^  of  Pritha,  thou  hast  a  difficult  work  to  do;  thou  hast  to  fight 
with  thine  enemies,  0  Savyasachin  (a  name  of  Arjuna).  Shall  Indra 
with  his  steeds,  and  wielding  the  thunderbolt,  go  'before  thee  in  battle, 
smiting  thy  foes,  or  shall  Krishna,  the  son  of  Vasudeva,  with  his  car, 
,to  which  Sugriva  (one  of  Krishna's1  horses)  is  yoked,  protect  thee  from 
behind  ?'  I  elected  to  have  in  the  combat  Yasudeva  for  an  ally,  rather 
than  Mahendra,  wielding,  the  thunderbolt.  Krishna  was  obtained  by 
me  as  a  helper  in  slaying  the  Dasyus,  and  I  think  that  this  was  effected 
for  me  by  the  gods.  That  man  will  try  to  stretch  over  the  ocean,  the 
immeasurable  receptacle  of  waters,  with  his  arms,  who  thinks  to  conquer 


AND  ENFMERATJON  OF  HIS  EXPLOITS.  249 

) 

in  battle  the  glorious  and  eminently  heroic  Krishna.  If  anyone  should 
attempt  to  split  with  his  hand  the  white  mountain  (viz.  Kailasa),  a  vast 
pile  of  rocks,  his  hand  and  nails  would  be  worn  away,  and  he  could 
produce  no  effect  upon  the  mountain.  That  man  would  extinguish 
blazing  fire  with  his  arms,  would  stop  the  moon  and  sun,  would 
daringly  plunder  the  ambrosia  of  the  gods,  who  should  think  to  conquer 
Vasudeva  in  battle, — [Vasudeva]  who  having  boldly  destroyed  in 
battle  the  Bhoja  kings,  carried  off  on  the  same  car  with  himself  Ruk- 
mim  his  bride,  shining  in  renown,  of  whom  the  great  Raukmineya  was 
born.  He  (Krishna')  having  by  his  prowess  destroyed  the  Gandharas, 
having  conquered  all  the  sons  of  Nagnajit,  forcibly  released  [king] 
Sudarsana,  renowned  even  among  the  gode,  who  had  been  bound  [by 
the  sons  of  Nagnajit],  and  was  making  an  outcry.210  He  slew  Pandya 
with  the  fragment  of  a  door,  and  crushed  the  Kalingas  in  Dantakura. 
Through  him  the  city  of  Benares,  which  had  been  burnt,  and  remained 
for  many  years  defenceless,  sprang  into  existence.  He  regarded  Eka- 
lavya  the  king  of  the  Nishadas  as  invincible  by  others  in  battle,  [but 
slew  him],  having  smitten  him  furiously  with  a  rock.  Jambha  sleeps, 
bereft  of  life  by  Krishna.211  Seconded  by  Baladeva,  he  also  prostrated 
[Sunaman]  the  wicked  son  of  TJgrasena  standing  in  the  midst  of  the 
assembly  of  the  Vrishnis  and  Andhakas,  and  having  slain  him,  gave 
the  kingdom  to  Ugrasena.  He  conquered  the  self-supporting  (i.e. 
flying)  [city  of]  Saubha,  and  the  king  of  the  S'alvas,  terrible  from  his 
magical  powers,  and  arrested  with  his  arms  at  the  gate  of  Saubha  the 
weapon  S'ataghni : 212  what  mortal  can  assail  him  ?  There  was  an  im- 

210  One  of  the  commentators  says  that  Sudars'ana  was  a  certain  king,  and  explains 
devatanam  lalamam  by  Hevatynam  niadhye  prasastam,  "  approved  among  the  gods." 
Another  commentator  says  lalamam  =s'iromanim,  ;<a  head-jewel  or  ornament."    "The 
Bhugavata  Purana,  x.  34,  8  ff.,  tells  a  story  of.  a  Vidyadhara  also  named  Sudars'ana, 
who  in  consequence  of  a  curse  had  heen  changed  into  a  serpent,  but  who  renewed  his 
former  shape  on  being  touched  by  Krishna's  foot. 

211  The  construction  and  sense  of  this  verse  are  not  very  clear. 

242  A  weapon  generally  supposed  to  bo  a  species  of  firearms,  or  a  rocket,  but 
also  described  as  a  stone  set  round  with  iron  spikes. — "Wilson's  Dictionary.  See 
alsQ  "Williams's  Sanskrit  English  Dictionary,  s.v.,  and  th^e  end  of  note  189,  page  191, 
abpve.  A  double  accouni  is  given  of  the  destruction  of  the  flying  (kamaga)  city  of 
Saubha  and  of  its  king  in  the  Vana-parvan.  l^ie  story  is  first  of  all  briefly  given 
in  vv.  615-635 ;  and  afterwards  very  diffusely  in  vv.  636-889.  Krishna  splits  the 
city  with  his  discus  Sudars'ana  (v.  883),  and  kills  the  king  of  the  S'alvas  himself 
(v.  885).— See  Lassen's  Indian  Antiquities,  p.  615,  first  ed.,  p.  761,  second  ed. 


250  BOONS  BESTOWED  ON  KRIS.HXA-BY  THE  GODS. 

pregnable,  formidable,  and  unassailable  castle  of  the  Asuras,  called 
Pragjyotisha.  Thither  the  powerful  Naraka  son  of  the  Earth  had 
carried  off  the  beautiful  jewelled  earrings  of  Aditi.243  The  assembled 
gods  aided  by  Indra,  fearless  of  death,  could  not  [overcome]  him  in 
battle.  But  perceiving  the  valour,  the  strength,  and  the  irresistible 
weapons  of  Kesava,  and  knowing  his  nature,  they  appointed  him 
(Krishna)  to  slay  the  Basyu.  Vasudeva,  possessing  divine  power 
in  his  magical  endowments  (aisvaryavdn  siddhishu),  undertook  that 
difficult  task.  Having  in  the  city  Nirrnochana  slain  six  thousand 
[Asuras],  and  having  violently  cut  asunder  the  nooses  sharp  as 
razors, 244  having  slain  Mura  and  the  Rakshasa  Ogha,  he  proceeded 
to  Nirmochana.245  There  Vishnu  of  surpassing  strength  had  a  fight 
with  the  powerful  foe ;  who,  smitten  by  Krishna,  sleeps  lifeless, 
like  a  karnikara246  tree  overthrown  by  the  wind.  Having  cap- 
tured the  jewelled  earrings  and  slain  Naraka,  son  of  the  Earth, 
and  Mura,  the  wise  Krishna  of  incomparable  power,  returned  sur- 
rounded by  splendour  and  renown.  Then  the  gods  having  seen  that 
terrible  work  which  he  had  achieved  in  battle,  conferred  upon  him 
these  boons :  '  Let  no  fatigue  oppress  thee  when  thou  art  fighting ; 
let  thy  step  traverse  the  sky  and  the  waters ;  and  let  no  weapons  make 
any  impression  on  thy  body.'  "With  these  boons  .Krishna  was  satisfied. 
In  Yasudeva,  who  is  of  such  a  character,  immeasurable,  and  of  mighty 
strength,  there  is  always  an  abundance  of  virtues.  It  is  this  irresistible 
Vishnu,  of  infinite  power,  whom  the  son  of  Dhritarashtra  hopes  to 
overcome." 

243  The  story  of  this  demon  is  told  in  the  Vishnu  Parana. —  See  "Wilson's  translation, 
pp.  581  ff.,  or  vol.  v.,  pp.  87  ff.  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.  ;- 

244"  These  nooses  are  also  mentioned  in  the  Vishnu  Purana  (see  Wilson's  transla- 
tion, as  in  the  last  note)  and  in  the  Harivamsa,  v.  6833.  See  Langlois's  note  to 
his  French  translation,  p.  521,  in  which  he  refers  to  the  Ashtic  Researches,  vol.  xiii., 
p.  278  ff.  In  that  article  an  account  is  given  of  the  Phansigars  or  Thugs,  who 
murder  their  victims  by  throwing  a  noose.  The  writer  refers  in  illustration  to 
the  Kamayana,  i.  29,  9  (Schlegel's  edition),  where  three  kinds  of  nooses  are  men- 
tioned, the  dharma-pasa,  the  kala-pasa,  and  the  Varuna-pasa.  In  the  Vana-parvan, 
879,  the  epithet  kshuranta,  sharp  as  a  razor,  is  applied  to  Krishna's  discus. 

249  See  verse  4407  of  this  same  parvan  ;  Nirmocham  sha^sahasrah  pasair  baddht\h 
mahasurah  |  This  line  evidently  con|ains  an  allusion  to  the  same  story  as  is  referred 
to  in  the  text ;  and  from  a  comparison  of  both  passages  I  infer  that  Nirmochana  is 
the  name  of  a  place.  Btatlingk  and  Koth  s  v.  do  not  recognize  this  signification. 

246  Pterospermum  acerifolium. 


KRISHNA  A  GREAT  DEVOTEE,  AND  PERFORMEK  OF  SACRIFICES.  251 

It  will  be  noticed  that  Krishna  is  here  represented  as  receiving 
various  boons  from  the  gods.  It  would  appear,  therefore,  as  if  the 
author  of  this  passage  could  not  consistently  have  regarded  him  as  one 
with  the  supreme  deity.  » 

The  following  passage  from  the  Vana-parvan  describes  Krishna  as  a 
great  devotee, 'as  a  performer  of  sacrifices,  as  a  destroyer  of  hostile  men 
and  demons  (referring  to  some  of  the  legends  already  alluded  to) ; 
and  also  in  some  pMces  identifies  him  with  the  supreme  spirit. 
Krishna,  we  are  told,  had  gone  with  some  of  his  clansmen  to  visit 
the  Pandavas  in  the  forest ;  and  as  he  showed  himself  greatly  incensed 
at  the  conduct  of  the  Kurus,  Arjuna,  to  appease  him,  related  (need- 
lessly, one  would  think,  if  he  was  regarded  as  the  Supreme  Deity)  his 
exploits  in  former  births  (vv.  471  ff.) :  Arjunah  uvdcha  \  Dasa-varsha- 
sahasrdni  yatra  Sdyangriho  munih  \  vyacharas  tvam  purd  Krishna 
parvate  Gandhamddane  \  dasa-varsha-sahasrdni  dasa-varsha-satdni  cha  \ 
pushkareshv  avasah  Krishna  tvam  apo  bhakshayan  purd  \  urdhva-bdhur 
visdldydm  Vadaryam  Hadhusudana  \  atishthah  eka-pddena  vdyu-bhakshah 
satam  samdh  \  avakrishtottardsangah  kriso  dhamani-santatah  \  dsih 
Krishna  Sarasvatydm  satre  dvddasa-vdrshike  \  Prabhdsam  apy  athdsddya 
tlrtham  punya-janochitam  \  tathd  Krishna  mahdtejdh  divyam  varsha- 
sahasrikam  (sic)  |  atishthas  tvam  yathaikena  pddena  niyama-sthitah  \ 
loka-pravritti-hetos  tvam  iti  Vydso  mamdtravH  \  kshetra-jnah  sarva- 
Ihutdndm  ddir  antas  cha  Kesava  \  nidhdnam  tapasdm  Krishna  yajnas 
tvam  cha  sandtanah  \  nihatya  Narakam^Bhaumam  dhritya  mani-kundale  \ 
prathamotpdditam  Krishna  medhyam  asvam  avdsrijah  \  kritvd  tat  karma 
lokdndm  rishalhah  sarva-loka-jit  \  abadhls  tvdm  rane  sarvdn  sametdn 
daitya-ddnavdn  \  tatah^  sarvesvaratvam  cha  sampraddya  S'achl-pateh  \ 
mdnusheshu  mahdldho  prddurbhuto  'si  Kesava  \  sa  tvam  Ndrdyano  Ihutvd 
Harir  dslh  parantapa  \  Brahmd  Somas  cha  Suryas  cha  Dharmo  Dhdtd 
Tamo  'nalak  \  Vdyur  Vaisravano  Budrah  kdlah  kham  prithivl  disah  \ 
ajas  chardchara-giwuh  srashtd  tvam  purushottama  \  pardyanam  devam 
urdhvam  kratulhir  Madhusudana  \  tyajo  bhuri-tejdh  vai  Krishna  Chai- 
trarathe  vane  \  satam  sata-sahasrdni  suvarnasya  Jandrdana  \  ekaikasmims 
tadd  yajne  paripurndni  bhdgasah  |  .  .  .  .  Sdditdh  Mauravdh  pdsUTi 
Nisunda-Narakau  hatau  \  kritah  kshemah  tpunah  panthdh  puram  Prtig- 
jyotisham  prati  \  Jdruthydm  Ahvritih  Kr&thah  ftisv/pdlo  janaih  saha  \ 
Jardsandhas  cha  S'aivyas  cha  S'atadhanvd  cha  nirjitah  \  tathd  Parjanya- 


252  KRISHNA'S  AUSTERITIES,  AND  ONENESS  WITH  VARIOUS  GODS. 

ghoshena  rathendditya-varchasd  \  avdpslr  mahishim  Ihojydm  ram  nirjitya 
Rukminam  \  Indrayumno  hatah  Tcopdd  Yavana§  cha  Kaserumdn  \  hatah 
Saubha-patih  S'dlvas  tvayd  Saubham  cha  pdlitam  \  Irdvatydm  hato 
Shojah  Kdrtavirya-samo  yudhi  \  Gopetis  TdlaJcetus  cha  tvaya  vinihatdv 
ubhau  |  tarn  cha  Bhogavatim  punydm  Rishikdm  turn  Jandrdana  \  Dvd- 
rakdm  utmasdt  Jcritvd  samudram  gamayishyasi  \  na  krodho  na  cha 
mdtsaryam  ndnritam  Madhmudana  \  tvayi  tishthati  Ddsdrha  na  nriiam- 
syam  Tcuto  'nrijuh  \  dslnam  ehaitya-madhye  tvdm  dipyamdnam  sva-tejasd  \ 
dgamya  rishayah  sarve  'ydchantdlhayam  Achyuta  \ 

Vana-parvan,  47 1.  "Formerly,  Krishna,  thou  didst  roam  for  ten 
thousand  years  on  the  mountain  Gandhamadan,  where  the  muni 
Sayangriha  was.  Formerly  thou  didst  dwell  ten  thousand  and  ten 
hundred  years  in  ponds,  subsisting  upon  water.  Thou  didst  stand  on 
the  spacious  Badari  a  hundred  years  with  thy  arms  aloft,  on  one  foot, 
subsisting  on  air,  with  thy  outer  garment  thrown  off,  emaciated,  with 
thy  veins  swollen.  Going  also  to  Prabhasa,  a  sacred  spot  fit  for  holy 
men,  thou  stoodest  glorious,  Krishna,  for  a'thousand  years  of  the  gods, 
on  one  foot,  practising  self-restraint,  for  the  benefit  of  the  world,— 
this  Yyasa  declared  to  me.  Thou,  Kesava,  art  the  spirit  residing  in 
men's  bodies,  the  beginning  and  the  end  of  all  existences,  the  re- 
ceptacle of  austerities,  and  the  eternal  sacrifice.  Having  slain  Naraka, 
the  son  of  the  Earth,  and  having  carried  off  the  jewelled  earrings, 
thou  didst  let  loose  the  first-produced  sacrificial  horse.  Having  per- 
formed that  rite,  chief  of  the  worlds,  and  conqueror  of  all  worlds, 
thou  didst  slay  in  battle  all  the  assembled  Daityas  and  Danavas.  And 
then,  having  conferred  the  lordship  of  the  universe  on  Indra,  thou, 
0  great-armed,  didst  become  manifested  among  mankind.  Thou, 
being  Narayana,  wert  Hari,  0  vexer  of  thy  foes.  Thou,  0  Puru- 
shottama  (or  chief  of  Spirits,  or  Males),  art  Brahma,  Soma,  Surya, 
Dharma,  Dhatri,  Yama,  Anala  (Fire),  Yayu,  Kuvera,  Eudra,  Time, 
Sky,  Earth,  the  Regions,  the  unborn,  the  lord  of  the  world,  the 
'  creator.  Thou,  Madhusudana,  Krishna,  of  great  glory,  didst  with 
sacrifices  worship  the  supreme,  high,  god  in  the  forest  of  Chaitraratha. 
A  hundred  times  a  hundred  thousands  of  gold  were  then  severally 
told  out  in  full  tale  at  each  sacrifice."  [Here  follow  the  verses  quoted 
above,  p.  136,  beginning  Aditer  api  putratvam,  and  ending  nihatdh 
sataso  'surah].  The  nooses  of  Muru  were  destroyed;  Nisunda  and 


KRISHNA  A  PARTIAL  INCARNATION  OF  THE  DEITY.       253 

)' 
Naraka   were   slain ;    the   way  to   the  city  Pragjyotisha  was  again 

rendered  safe.  On  the  JaruthI  Aavriti,  Kratha,  S'isupala  with  his 
men,  Jarasandha,  S'aivya  and  S'atadhanvan U1  were  conquered.  So, 
too,  having  vanquished  Rukmin  in  hattle  with  thy  car,  resounding 
like  Parjanya,  and  gleaming  like  the  sun,  thou  didst  obtain  thy  queen 
to  be  the  objecjt  of  thy  love.  (See  above,  p.  215.)  Indradyumna  was 
slain  by  thee  IE.«  thy  wrath,  and  the  Yavana  Kaserumat,  and  S'alva, 
the  lord  of  Saubha ;  and  Saubha  was  thrown  down.  Bhoja,  equal  to 
Kartavirya 248  in  battle,  was  slain  by  thee  on  the  Iravati,  as  well,,as 
both  Gopati  and  Talaketu.  And  having  subdued  to  thyself  Dvaraka, 
thou  wilt  cause  the  holy  Bhogavati  and  the  Rishika  to  flow  to  the 
ocean.  Neither  anger,  nor  envy,  nor  falsehood,  nor  cruelty,  abides  in 
thee,  Dasarha  (Krishna) :  how  then  canst  thou  be  deceitful  ?  The 
rishis  came  to  thee,  [Achyuta,]  whilst  thou  wast  sitting  in  the  midst 
of  the  Chaitya  (sacrificial  ground),  resplendent  with  thy  own  bright- 
ness, and  begged  of  thee  security.  [Then  follow  some  lines  which 
have  been  quoted  above,  p.  229,  beginning  Yugdnte  sarva-lhutani 
sankshipya,  etc.] 

VI.  Although,  as  we  have  already  seen  from  various  passages  of  the 
Mahabharata  and  Puranas,  Krishna  is  generally  identified  with  Vishnu, 
and  Vishnu  with  Brahma,  or  the  supreme  deity,  yet  in  a  text  quoted 
above  (p.  49)  from  the  Bhagavata  Purana,  x.  33,  27,  Krishna  is  spoken 
of  as  only  a  partial  incarnation  of  the  godhead.  The  same  is  the  case 
in  another  passage  in  the  first  section  of  the  same  tenth  book  of  the 
Bhagavata.  The  king  there  says  to  S'lika  that  he  has  heard  from  him 
the  history  of  the  kings  of  the  solar  and  lunar  races,  and  among  them 
of  Yadu.  He  then  asks  the  sage  to  relate  the  achievements  of  Vishnu, 
the  creator  and  soul  01?  all  things,  who  became  partially  incarnate 
(tatramsenuvatlrnasya  Vishnor  vlryani  samsa  nah\  avatlrya  Yadorvamse 
lhagavan  Ihuta-lhavarcah  \  kritavan  yani  visvdtma  tdninovada  vistarat}. 
S'uka  in  reply  goes  on  to  relate  that  the  earth  being  afflicted  by 
Daityas  in  the  shape  of  proud  princes,  had,  in  the  form  of  a  cow, 
preferred  her  complaint  to  Brahma,  who  had  consequently  gone  with 
the  other  gods  to  supplicate  the  help  of  Vishnu.  Brahma  hears  a 

voice  in  the  sky  : 

> 

21T  See  Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  pp.  428  ff.  (vol.-'iv.  pp.  80  ff.  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.) 
243  See  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  450  ff. 


254  KRISHNA  A  PARTIAL  INCARNATION  OF  VISHNU. 

Bhagavata  Purana,  x.  i.  21  ff. — Giram  samddhau  gagane  samiritdm 
nisamya  Vedhds  tridasdn  uvdcfia  hi*  \  gum  paurushim  me  srinutdmardh 
punar  vidhlyatdm  dsu  tathaiva  mdchiram  \  puraiva  puihsd  (Isvarena, 
Comm.)  'vadhrito  dhard-jvaro  bhavadbhir  amsair  Yadushupajanyatdm  \ 
sa  ydvad  urvydh  bJiaram  isvareivarah  sva-kdla-saktyd  kshapayams  chared 
bhuvi  |  Vasudeva-grihe  sdkshdd  bhagavdn  Purushah  parah  \  janishyate 
tat-priydriham  sambhavantu  sura-striyah  \  Vdsudeva- kald  ''nantah  sa- 
hasra-vadanah  svardt  \  agrato  lhavitd  devo  Uareh  priya-chikirshayd  \ 
Vifhnor  mdyd  bhagavatl  yayd  sammdhitam  jagat  \  ddishtd  prdbJiund 
'msena  kdrydrthe  sambliavishyati  \ 

"  Having,  while  in  a  state  of  contemplation,  heard  a  voice  uttered  in 
the  sky,  Yedhas  (Brahma)  said  to  the  gods :  'Hear  from  me,  immortals, 
the  voice  of  Purusha,  and  then  speedily  act  so  [as  it  enjoins].  The 
distress  of  the  earth  was  already  understood  by  Purusha.  Do  you,  in 
portions  of  yourselves,  be  born  among  the  Yadus,  whilst  he,  the  god  of 
gods,  walks  upon  the  earth,  removing  her  burthen  by  his  destructive 
power.  The  supreme  divine  Purusha  shall  be  born  in  his  own  person 
(sdkshdf)  in  the  house  of  Vasudeva.  To  please  him,  let  the  wives  of 
the  gods  be  born.  The  infinite,  thousand-faced,  self-resplendent  deity 
shall  first  become  a  portion  of  Vasudeva,  in  order  to  gratify  Hari.  The 
divine  Delusion  of  Vishnu,  by  which  the  world  is  deceived,  being  com- 
manded by  the  lord,  shall  be  born  in  a  portion  of  herself  to  effect  the 
desired  objects." 

In  the  Vishnu  Purana,  also,  the  incarnation  of  Vishnu  is  spoken  of 
as  that  of  a  part,  or  even  a  part  of  a  part.  At  the  commencement  of 
the  fifth  book  of  that  work  the  following  lines  occur  : 

Nripdndm  kathitah  sarvo  bhavatd  vamsa-vistarah  \  Vamsdmicharitam 
chaiva  yathdvad  anuvarnitam  \  Aihsdvatdro  brchmarshe  yo  ''yam  Yadu- 
kttlodbhavah  ]•  Vishnos  tarn  vistarendham  srotum  ichchhdmy  aseshatah  \ 
Chakdra  ydni  Icarmdni  bhagavdn  Purushottamah  \  Amsdmsendvatiryor- 
vydm  tatra  tdni  mune  vada  \  Pardsarah  WD&cha  \  Maitreya  sriiyatdm 
etad  yat  prishto  'ham  iha  tvayd  \  Vishnor  amsdmsa-sambhuti-charitam 

T 

jagato  Tiitam  \ 

"  You  have  related  to  me  the  complete  genealogy  of  the  kings,  and 
also  the  entire  history  of  the  races.  I  now  wish,  divine  sage,  to  hear  in 
full  detail  the  particulars  of  the  incarnation  of  a  portion  of  Vishnu 
which  took  place  in  the  tribe  of  the  Yadtis.  Tell  me,  Muni,  what  acts 


EARTH  COMPLAINS,  OF  THE  LOAD  OF  DEMONS.  255 

the  divine  Purushottama  performed  when  he  descended  to  the  earth  iu 
a  portion  of  a  portion  [of  himself],    Parasara  replies  :  '  Hear,  Mai  trey  a, 
that  which  you  have  at&ed  me,  the  history,  beneficial  to  the  world, 
of  the  hirth  of  a  portion  of  a  portion  of  Vishnu.'" 

The  sage  proceeds  to  relate  (-see  "Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  pp.  493- 
497  ;  pp.  249  ff.  of  the  4th  vol.  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.)  how  the  earth  had 
complained  to  Brahma  and  the  other  gods  that  the  Asura  Kalanemi 
had  revived  in  Kansa,  aad  other  demons  also  had  been  born  as  princes  ; 
so  that  she  had  to  bear  upon  her  surface  many  hosts  of  strong  and 
haughty  Daitya  chiefs  wearing  celestial  forms  ;  and  that  she  could  not 
support  the  load.     (V.P.  v.  1.  12.    Etasminn  eva  kale  tu  bhuri-bhdrd- 
vapiditd  |  jagdma  dharanl  Herau  samtije  tridivaulcasdm  \    ...... 

25  |  a.kshauhinyo  hi  lahuldh  divya-murti-dhritdm  surah  \  mahdlaldndm 
driptdndm  daityendrdndm  mamopari  \  tad-bhuri-bhdra-plddrtd  na 
salcnomy  amaresvardh  \  vibhartum  dtmand  "tmdnam  iti  vijndpaydmi  vah  \ 
Icriyatdm  tat  mahdbhdgdh  mama  bhdrdvatdranam  \  yathd  rasdtalam 

naham  gachheyam  ativihvald\u*      Brahma  proposed  that  they  should 

• 

249  The  Greek  writers,  too,  speak  of  the  earth  being  burthened,  but  from  a  differ- 
ent cause,  viz.  with  the  load  of  men,  and  that  Jupiter  brought  about  the  Trojan 
war  for  her  relief.  In  the  Helena  of  Euripides,  vv.  38  ff.,  it  is  said  :  H6\f/j.ov  yap 
etff'fiveyKev  t'E.\\i\v<av  'x.Qovl  Kal  <fy>i>£l  f>vffT-i)voiffiv,  a>y  o^Kov  ftporlav  IIMjflous  re 
xov<j)iffeie  |U?jTe/ra  •)(Q6va,,  TvtarAv  re  deli]  rbv  Kpdriffrov  'E\\dSos.  "  For  he  brought 
on  a  war  between  the  land  of  the  Greeks  and  the  unhappy  Phrygians,  that  he  might 
relieve  mother  Earth  of  the  crowd  and  multitude  of  mortals,  and  make  known  the 
bravest  man  in  Greece." 

Similarly  in  the  Orestes  of  the  same  author,  vv.  1639  ff.,  it  is  said:  'Ewel  deal  r$ 
TTJirSe  Ka\\iar€v/j.aTi  "EAA.rji'as  els  ec  Kal  Qpvyas  ffw-fiyayov,  davdrovs  r'  edrjKav,  &s 
a.Tva.vT\o1tv  x^0>/^?  "T/SpJo-jtio  Bvrjrcav  a.<f>()6vov  7rA.rjpc£/xaTos.  "  Since  the  gods  by 
means  of  her  beauty  brought  the  Greeks  and  Phrygians  into  conflict,  and  occasioned 
deaths,  in  order  that  they  might  remove  from  the  Earth  the  grievance  of  being 
superabundantly  replenished  with  mortals.  " 

And  in  the  Scholia  Minora  on  the  Iliad,  i.  5  (quoted  in  Heyne's  Homer,  Oxford, 
1821),  we  read:  vAAAoi  Se  airb  tff-ropias  rwbs  etirov  flptiKevat  rbv  "Ofj.-qpov  <j)a<rl 
yh.p  T^V  y}]f  fiapovyitvuv  'virb  a.vQp<aTr<av  iro\virXT)Qe(a.s,  /xTjSe^ias  avdpiiiirtav  ova-ris 
euffefitias,  aiTriffai  T}>V  Ai'a  Kttv^taGrji'a.i  Tov^&xQovs.  Tbv  8e  Aia,  irpSirov  /nty  tvdiis 
iroirjaai  r~bv  ®rjj3ai'/cbv  ir6\f/J,ov,  Si  ov  iro\\ovs  irdvu  air{a\fffff.  vartpov  5e  ira.\iv 


Kepauvo'is  ^  KaTO.KXvfffj.o'is  irdi>Tas  StatyOtTpai,  TOVTO  rov  MaSjUou  K<a\vffa.VTOs,  inro6e- 
/j,evov  Se  aMTtf  yvcaftas  Svo,  T^V  Qf-riSos  Qi>f\royaiJ.ia.v,  Kal  Ovyarpbs  Ka\Tjv  yfvvav, 
e|  $>v  a.fj.(pOTep<at>  Tr6\e/j.os"1E.\\'na'i  re  Kal  f3ap/3dpoi?  eyevero,  ovr<a  (ru/uySjj^ot  Kovtyi- 
ffdrivai  T^V  yf/v,  •TroAAcoj'  a.va.ipfQevT<av,  TJ  8e  i<rropla  TrapaoSTturiVy  ry  ra  Kinrpta 
ire-TrotTj/c^Ti,  tlirAvTi  ofrrcos'  '^Hi'  OT«  /J.vpta  (pv\a  Kara  x®6va  ^'^a^ofj.fi'a  Ba6varepvov 


256  INCARNATION  OF  PARAMES'VARA'S  TWO  HAIRS. 

resort  to  Vishnu,  "who  is  the  spirit  'if  all,  and  of  whom  the  uni- 
verse consists,"  and  ''who  constantly,  for  the  sake  of  earth,  descends  in 
a  very  small  portion  of  his  essence,  to  establish  righteousness  below" 
(v.  32.  sarvadaiva  jagaty-arthe  sa  sarvdtmd  jaganmayah  \  svalpdmsend- 
vatiryorvydm  dharmasya  Jcurute  sthitim).  The  gods  accordingly  went 
to  the  milky  sea,  and  lauded  Vishnu  in  a  long  hymn.  Vishnu  was 
gratified  by  their  praises,  desired  them  to  state  tBeir  wishes,  and 
assured  them  that  these  should  be  accomplished.  Brahma  renewed 
hi?  praises  ;  and  we  are  then  told  what  happened  when  they  were 
concluded  : 

58.  Evam  samstuyamdnas  tu  bhagavdn  paramesvarah  \  TTjjahdrdttnanah 
kesau  sita-ltrishnau  mahdmune  \  Uvdcha  cha  surdn  etau  mat-kesdu  vasu- 
dhd-tale  \  Avatlrya  bhuvo  bhdra-klesa-Jidnim  karishyatah  \  Surdscha 
sakaldh  svdmsair  avatlrya  mahltale250  \  Eurvantu  yuddham  unmattaih 
purvotpannair  mahdsuraih  \  Tatah  Icshayam  aseshds  te  DaiteydTi  dharanl- 
tale  |  Praydsyanti  na  sandeho  mad-drik-pdta-vichurnitdh  \  Vamdevasya 
yd  patrii  Devakl  devatopamd  \  Tasydyam  ashtamo  garlho^1  mat-hso 
lhavitd  surdh  \  Avatlrya,  cha  tatrdyam252  Kamsam  ghdtayitd  Ihuvi  \ 


ir\dros  ait}S.  Zeuy  8e  IS^if  ^A.€>j<re,  Kal  ev  Trvtcivdis  irpairiSeffffi  'SvvQfro  Kov<f>l<rai 
avBptairtav  trapPon-opa.  ycuav,  'PiTricray  iroXe'/iou  (j.tyd\r]v  fpiv  l\tdicou>-  "Otppa  Kevd>- 
<reiev  6a.vd.Ttp  /3apoy  ol  5'  evl  Tpoiri  "Hptaes  Kreivovro.  Aibs  8e  Te\tltTo  /3ouA^. 

"  Others  have  declared  that  Homer  used  the  expression  (Aibs  5e  reAe^ro  fiovXii) 
'And  the  counsel  of  Zeus  was  fulfilled')  in  consequence  of  a  certain  history.  For 
they  relate  that  the  Earth,  being  weighed  down  by  the  multitude  of  men,  among 
whom  there  was  no  piety,  prayed  to  Zeus  to  be  relieved  of  the  burthen  ;  and  that 
he  had  first  caused  the  Theban  war,  whereby  he  destroyed  very  many.  Afterwards 
he  employed  Momus  as  his  counsellor,  (an  act)  which  Homer  calls  'Zeus's  con- 
sultation.' "When  he  could  have  destroyed  the  whole  of  mankind  by  his  thunder- 
bolts or  by  deluges,  but  was  dissuaded  from  doing  so  ,by  Momus,  who  suggested 
two  plans,  the  marriage  of  Thetis  to  a  mortal,  and  the  generation  of  a  beautiful 
daughter,  in  consequence  of  which  two  events  a  war  was  occasioned  between  the 
Greeks  and  Barbarians,  —  it  thus  came  to  pass  that  the  Berth  was  lightened,  many 
being  slain.  The  history  is  found  in  Stasinus,  who  composed  the  Cypria,  and  who 
speaks  as  follows  :  '  There  was  a  time  when  myriads  of  races  wandered  over  the 
Earth,  on  the  breadth  of  the  deep-bosc/.med  land,  feut  Zeus,  beholding,  pitied 
her,  and  in  his  wise  mind  resolved  to  relieve  the  all-nurturing  Earth  of  [the  load  of] 
men,  by  exciting  the  great  strife  of  the  Ilian  war,  in  order  that  by  slaughter  he  might 
clear  away  the  burthen  :  and\he  heroes  were  slain  in  the  Troad.  And  the  counsel 
of  Zeus  was  fulfilled.'  "  See  also  above,  p.  215,  note  212  ;  and  Dronap.,  2051  f. 

250  Another  MS.  reads  mahitaiam. 

251  Another  MS.  reads  esha  garbho  'sfitamas  tasyah. 
352  Another  MS.  reads  tatrdham. 


RATNAGARBHA'S  REMARKS  ON  KRISHNA'S  INCARNATION.     257 

Kdlanemim  samudbhutam  ityukfvd  'ntardadhe  Harih  \  Adrisydya  tatas 
ta^mai  pranipatya  mahdmune  \  Mer<jt-prishtham  surah  jag mur  avaterus 
cha  bhutale  \ 

"Being  thus  lauded,  the  divine  Paramesvara  plucked  out  two  of  his 
own  hairs,  a  white  and  a  black,  and  said  to  the  deities,  '  These  two 
hairs  of  mine,  descending  to  the  earth,  shall  remove  her  burthen  and 
sufferings.  And  Jet  all  the  deities,  descending  in  portions  of  them- 
selves to  &e  earth,  fight  against  thos,e  mad  Asuras  who  were  formerly 
born.  Then  all  these  sons  of  Dili  (the  Asuras)  shall  no  doubt  perish, 
being  annihilated  by  the  glances  of  my  eyes.  This  my  hair,  gods, 
shall  become  the  eighth  child  of  DevakI,  the  wife  of  Vasudeva  who 
(Devaki)  resembles  the  goddesses.  And  this  [hair]  descending  there, 
shall  destroy  Kaiisa,  the  Kalanemi  who  has  been  born.'  Having 
thus  spoken,  Hari  disappeared.  Having  then  bowed  down  to  him 
the  unseen,  the  gods  went  to  the  top  of  Meru,  and  descended  on  the 
earth." 

The  following  are  the  remarks  which  Ratnagarbha,  one  of  the  com- 
mentators on  the  Vishnu  Purana,  makes  on  the  first  of  the  preceding 
passages  (p.  254),  and  which  have  reference  to  the  sequel  also : 

"  Chakdra"  iti  \  tatra  Krishndvatdre  ati-parichhinna-manushydkdra- 
lild-vigrahendvirbhdvdd  amsdmsena  ity  uktam  upachdrdt  \  na  tu  sakti- 
hrdsena  Krishnddy-avatdreshv  api  yisva-rupa-darsana-sarvaisyaryddy- 
ukteh  |  Nanu  amsino  ' ' msoddhdrena  salcty-ddi-hrdsas  tathd  'msasydpi  tad- 
apelcshya  alpa-saktitvddikam  dhdnya-rdsy-ddi-vibhdgah  iva  prasajyeta  iti 
chedna  \  prahdsa-svarupe  tad-abhdvdt  \  pradlpasya  hi  tan-mulaka-dlpdnta- 
rasya  vd  upddhi-bhede  'pi  sakty-ddi-sdmya-darsandt  " purnam  adah 
pHrnam  idam  purntit  purnam  udachyate  \  purnasya  purnam  dddya 
purnam  evdvasishyate"  iti  sruteh  \  " param  Brahma  nardkriti  gudham 
par  am  Brahma  manushya-lingam  Rrishnas  tu  bhagavdn  svayam"  ityddi 
vdkyebhyas  cha  \  yas*tu  "  mat-kesau  vasudhd-tale"  ity-dddv  "  ayam 
Kamsam  ghdtayitd"  ity  atra  kesa-vyapadesah  sa  Brahmanah  paripur- 
nasya  bhu-bhdra-harana-rupam  kdt-yam  aty-alpa-yantra-sddhyam  iti 
khydpayitum  na  tukesayoh  Rdma-Krishnatvam  vaktum  \jadayoh  kesayos 
tad-dehakshetrajnatvdbhdvena  tat-kdryam  kartum^asaktatvdt  \  kesdtmaka- 
mdyayodbhava-Rdma-Krishna-dehdv  ddisya  [dvisya  ?~]  bhagavdn  eva  tat 
tat  karishyati  iti  ched  om  iti  brumah  phalatoyiseshdt  "  krishndshtamydm 
aham  nisi"  iti  svayam  evoktatvdch  cha  ity  alaih  vistdrena  \ 

VOL.    IV.  17 


258    COMMENTATORS'  EEMARKS  ON  KRISHNA'S  INCARNATIONS. 

1  I 

"  Purushottama  is  here  figuratively  ^aid  to  have  become  incarnate 

with  a  portion  of  a  portion  of  hirriself,  because  in  the  Krishna  incarna- 
tion he  was  manifested  in  a  merely  sportive  body  in  the  very  circum- 
scribed form  of  a  man,  and  not  because  of  any  diminution  of  his  power, 
since  even  in  the  Krishna  and  other  incarnations  he  is  |aid  to  have 
shown  himself  in  every  possible  form,  and  to  have  possessed  all  divine 
power,  and  so  forth.  But  is  it  not  the  case  that  if  u  portion  is  taken 
from  a  whole  composed  of  parts,  there  is  a  decrease  of  power,  etc.  [in 
that  whole],  and  that  thus  an  inferiority  of  power  will  attach  to  the 
portion  relatively  to  the  whole,  just  as  when  a  heap  of  grain,  or  any 
other  such  whole,  is  divided  ?  I  answer,  No ;  since  such  a  diminution 
does  not  occur  in  him  whose  nature  is  light ;  for  though  there  is  a  seeming 
difference  in  the  individuality  of  one  lamp,  and  of  another  lamp  derived 
from  it,  yet  an  equality  of  power  is  perceived  in  each ;  agreeably  to  the 
text  from  the  Yeda  (the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xiv.  8,  1,  p.  1094= 
Brih.  Aranyaka  Upan.  beginning  of  adhyaya  7,  p.  948  of  ed.  in  Biblio- 
theca  Ind.),  '  That  is  full,  "and  this  is  full ;  a  full  arises  out  of  a  full : 
if  a  full  be  taken  from  a  full,  a  full  remains ; ' Z53  and  also  agreeably  to 
such  texts  as  this,  '  The  supreme  Brahma  with  the  form,  and  with  the 
characteristics,  of  a  man,  is  a  great  mystery ;  but  Krishna  is  the  lord 
himself.'  And  the  employment  of  the  term  '  hairs'  in  the  words,  '  My 
hairs  shall  descend  to  the  earth,'  and  '  This  hair  shall  slay  Kansa,'  etc., 
is  intended  to  signify  that  the  task  of  removing  the  earth's  burthen  was 
such  as  Brahma  in  all  his  plenitude  could  effect  by  a  very  slight  instru- 
mentality, and  not  to  assert  that  the  two  hairs  were  identical  with 
[Bala]rama  and  Krishna  :  for  two  insensible  hairs,  not  being  conscious 
spirits  animating  the  bodies  of  those  two  persons,  could  not  fulfil  their 
task.  If  it  be  said  that  the  lord  occupying^  the  bodies  of  Balarama 
and  Krishna,  which  were  produced  by  the  magical  operation  of  the 
hairs,  will  do  so  and  so,  we  reply,  '  Yes,  for  tliere  is  no  difference  in 
the  result,  and  because  he  himself  said,  'I  [shall  be  born]  on  the 

lr 

263  See  Dr.  Roer's  translation  of  this  verse,  with  his  explanatory  note  at  'y.  247 
of  the  Bibliotheca  Indica,  vol.  ii.,  part  iii.  The  Commentary  on  the  verse  in  the 
S'atapatha  Brahmana,  p.  '-1157  of  Weber's  edition,  may  also  be  consulted.  The 
Atharva-veda  has  the  following  verse;  x.  8,  29 :  Purnat  purnam  udachati  purnam, 
purnena  sichyate  \  uto  tad  adya1  jidyama  yatas  tat  parishichyate  \  "He  takes  a  full 
from  a  full :  the  full  y*  sprinkled  with  the  full :  and  may  we  to-day  know  that  from 
which  that  is  sprinkled." 


QUOTATION  FROM  THE  MAHABHARATA  ON  SAME  SUBJECT.   259 

eighth,  night  of  the  dark  fortnight  of  the  moon/  But  there  is  no 
occasion  for  further  prolixity."254 

The  passage  which  follows  is  from  another  commentary  on  the  same 
text : **  * 

Ujjahdra  \utpdlitavdn  \  ayam  bhdvah  \  mama  dushkaram  ched  yush- 
mdbhih  sdhdyyaih  kdryaih  sydt  \  na  tv  etad  asti  bhu.-bhdrdpaharanddau 
mahaty  api  kdrye  'mat-kesa-mdtrasyaiva  samarthatvdd  iti  \  na  tu  ke£a- 
mdtrdvatdrah  iti  mantavyam  \  "  mad-drik-pdta-vichurnitah"  "  krish- 
ndshtamydm  aham  utpatsydmi"  ityddishu  sdkshdt  svdvatdratvokteh  \  sita>- 
krishna-kesoddhdranaih  cha  iobhdriham  eva  \  "  Ujjahdra  means  that  he 
'  plucked  out '  the  hairs.  The  sense  is  as  follows  :  '  It  would  be  a 
difficult  matter  if  aid  had  to  be  rendered  to  me  by  you  :  but  the  same 
is  not  the  case  in  regard  to  the  task,  though  a  great  one,  of  removing 
the  load  of  the  earth,  etc.,  since  my  hairs  alone  are  equal  to  it.'  But 
it  is  not  to  be  supposed  that  there  was  nothing  beyond  an  incarnation 
of  the  mere  hairs  ;  for  his  own  incarnation  is  distinctly  asserted  in  the 
words  '  annihilated  by  the  glance  of  my  eye,'  '  I  shall  be  born  on  the 
eighth  night  of  the  dark  fortnight  of  the  moon,'  etc.,  etc.  The  mention 
of  his  plucking  out  white  and  black  hairs  is  for  the  purpose  of 
ornament."256 

The  same  story  about  the  production  of  Balarama  and  Krishna  from 
two  hairs  is  also  told  in  the  Mahabharata,  Adi-parvan,  7306  ff.  : 

Tair  eva  sdrdham  tu  tatah  sa  devo  jagdma  Ndrdyanam  aprameyam  \ 
anantam  avyaktam  ajam  purdnam  sandtanam  visvam  ananta-rupam  \  sa 
chdpi  tad  vyadadhdt  sarvam  eva  tatah  sarve  sambabhuvur  dharanydm  \ 
sa  chdpi  kesau  Harir  udvavarha  suklam  ekam  aparaih  chdpi  krishnam  \ 
tau  chdpi  kesau  nivisetdm  Yadundm  kule  striyau  Devaklm  Rohinlm  cha  \ 
tayor  eko  Baladevo  babhuva  yo  'sau  svetas  tasya  devasya  kesah  \  Krishna 
dvitlyah  Kesavah  sambabhuva  keso  yo  'sau  varnatah  krishnah  uktah  \ 

11  Along  with  them  [viz.  four  preceding  Indras  and  a  fifth  deity 
sprung  from  Indra)  the  god  (Indra)  went  to  Narayana,  immeasurable, 
infinite,  undiscernible,  unborn,  primeval,  everlasting,  universal,  endless 

254  The  preceding  copy  of  the  text,  and  commentary  on  the  text,  from  the  Vishnu 
Purana,  have  been  kindly  copied,  and  carefully  collated,  for  me  by  Professor  Monier 
Williams. 

255  I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Goldstiicker  for  copying  this  passage  for  me. 

256  See  Professor  "Wilson's  notes  on  these  passages  of  the1  Vishnu  Purana,  viz. 
in  p.  492,  and  in  p.  497  (pp.  247  and  258,  vol.  v.,  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed ). 


260  NlLAKAXTHA  ON  THE  PASSAGE  FROM  THE  MAHABHARATA. 

in  his  forms;  and  he  fulfilled  all  [thaflthey  desired].  Then  they  were 
all  born  on  earth.  Hari  also  plucked  out  two  hairs,  one  white  and  the 
other  black.  These  two  hairs  entered  into  two  women  of  the  tribe  of 
the  Yadus,  DevakI  and  Rohim.  One  of  them,  the  white  hair  of  the 
god,  became  Baladeva ;  while  the  second  hair  (kesa),  which  was  called 
black  (krishna)  in  colour,  became  Krishna,  Kesava."  - 

The  following  remarks  are  made  on  this  passage  by  Nilakantha,  one 
of  the  commentators  on  the  Mahabharata :  •  ' 

'  Atra  kesdv  eva  relo-rupau  Pdndavdndm  iva  Bdma-Srishnayor  api 
prakarana-sangaty-artham  sdkshdd  deva-retasah  utpatter  avaktavyat- 
vdt 257  |  atah  eva  Devakydm  Hohfnydncha  sdkshdt  kesa-pravesah  uchyate 
na  tu  Vasudeve  \  tathd  saii  tu  "  devdndm  reto  varsham  varshasya  retah 
oshadhayah"  ityddi-frauta-pranddyd  'smad-ddi-vat  tayor  api  vyava- 
dhdnena  deva-prabhavatvam  sydt  \  tathd  cha  l<  etan  ndnd-vatdrdndm 
nidhdnam  vyam  avyayam"  iti  lhagavatah  sdlcshdd  matsyddy-avatdra- 
vljatvam  uchyamanam  virudhyeta  \  apicha  kesa-retasor  deha-jatve  samune 
'j)i  retah-prabhavatve'lrvdksrotastvena  manushyatvam  putratvam  cha  sydt\ 
tathd  cha  "ITrishnas  tu  lhagavdn  svayam"  iti  srlmad-hhdgavatoktih 
sangachhate  \  na  cha  kesoddhdrandt  Krishnasydpy  amsatvam  pratlyate 
iti  vdchyam  \  kesasya  dehdvayavatvdbhdvdt  \  tasmdd  Namuchi-badhe 
kartavye  yathd  apdm  phene  vajrasya  pravesah  evam  Devakl-Rohinyor 
jathare  pravese  kartavye  kesadvayena  dvdra-bhutena  bhagavatah  kdrts- 
nyena  eva  dvirbhuvah  esh{avyah  iti  yuktam  \ 

11  Here  the  two  hairs  are  of  the  nature  of  seed  productive  of  Balarama 
and  Krishna,  just  as  in  the  case  of  the  Pandavas,  [and  this  expression  is 
employed]  for  the  sake  of  conformity  to  what  had  preceded,  since  it  is 
manifest  that  one  cannot  speak  of  production  from  the  seed  of  a  god. 
For  this  reason  it  is  distinctly  said  that  the  hairs  entered  into  Uevaki 
and  Rohim  [the  mothers],  and  not  into  Vasudeva  [the  father].  But 
such  being  the  case,  according  to  the  process"  of  derivation  described 
in  the  Yeda,  that  '  rain  is  the  seed  of  the  gods,  and  plants  are  the  seed 
of  rain,'  etc.,  these  two  persons  also  (Balarama  and  Krishna)  will  be 
mediately  the  offspring  of  the  deity,  just  as  is  the  case  with  ourselves 
and  other  beings.  And  thus — since  'this  substance  of  the  different 
incarnations  is  an  undecaying  seed,'258 — it  would  be  opposed  to  that 

257  The  MS.  in  the  E.  I.  Office  Library  reads  avasya-vaktavyatvat  \ 

258  I  put  these  words  between  inverted  commas,  as  they  appear  to  be  a  metrical 
quotation,  though  I  am  not  aware  whence  it  is  derived. 


INDKA  STRIKES  OFF  NAMUCHI'S  HEAD  WITH  FOAM.       261 

i 

declaration  to  predicate  of  the  dlity  that  he  is  literally  the  seed  of  the 
fish,  and  other  incarnations,  further,  although  hairs  and  seed  spring 
equally  from  the  body,'  yet  in  the  case  of  production  from  seed, 
humanity  and  sonship  will  arise,  after  the  manner  of  the  inferior 
animals.  And  thus  the  saying  of  the  Bhagavata,  that  '  Krishna  is  the 
Lord  himself,'  io  not  contradicted.  And  it  must  not  be  said  that  from 
a  hair  being  plucted  out,  Krishna  also  is  shown  to  be  only  a  portion 
[of  the  deity];  for  a  hair  is  not  a  part  of  the  body.  "Wherefore,  just 
as,  when  [the  demon]  Namuchi  was  to  be  slain,  the  thunderbolt  [qf 
Indra]  entered  into  the  foam  of  the  waters,259  so  when  an  entrance 

359  I  am  indebted  to  Dr.  Aufrecht  for  pointing  out  to  me  the  legend  to  which 
reference  is  here  made,  viz.  that  mentioned  in  E,. V.'  viii.  14,  13:  Apam  phenena 
Namucheh  sirah  Indrodavartayah  \  visvah  yad  ajayah  spridhah  \  " Thou,  Indra,  didst 
strike  off  the  head  of  Namuchi  with  the  foam  of  the  waters,  when  thoa  didst  vanquish 
all  opponents."  On  this  Sayana  tells  the  following  story :  Pura  Jiila  Indro  'suran 
jitva  Namuchim  asuram  grahltum  no,  sasaka  \  sa  ehn  yudhyamanas  tenrisurena  ja- 
grihe  \  sa  cha  grihitam  Indram  evam  avochat  "  tvam  visrijami  ralrav  ahni  cha  hish- 
kendrdrena  chayudhena  yadi  mam  na  himsJr"  iti  \  sa  Indtras  tena  visrishtah  sann 
ahoratrayoh  sandhau  s'ushkardra-vilakshanena  phmena  tasya  s'iras  chichfyeda  \  ayam 
artho  '  syam  pratipadyate  \  He  Indra  apam  phenena  vajribhutena  Namucher  Asurasya 
sirah  udavartayah  \  "  Formerly  Indra  having  conquered  the  Asuras,  was  unable  to 
seize  the  Asura  Namuchi ;  and  fighting,  was-  seized  by  the  Asura.  The  latter  said 
to  Indra,  whom  he  had  seized :  '  I  release  thee  if  thou  wilt  not  smite  me  by  night, 
or  by  day,  with  a  dry  or  a  wet  weapon.'  Indra,  being  released  by  him,  cut  off  his 
head  at  the  junction  of  day  and  night  with  foam,  which  is  different  both  from  dry 
and  wet.  This  purport  is  set  forth  in  this  verse."  See  also  S'atapatha  Brahmana, 
xii  7,  3,  1  ff.,  quoted  in  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  94 ;  and  also  Taittirlya 
Brahmana,  i.  7,  1,  6  f. :  Indro  Vritram  hatva  ayttran  parabhavya  Namuchim  asuram 
na  alabhata  \  tarn  S'achya  'grihnat  \  tau  samalabhetam  \so  'stnad  abhisunataro  'bhavat  \ 
so  'bravlt  "  sandham  sandadhavahai  \  atha  tva  vah  (ava  ?)  srakshyami  \  na  ma  s'ush- 
kena  na  ardrena  hanah  na  diva  na  naktam"  iti  \  sa  etam  apam  phenam  asinchat\ 
na  vai  esha  s'ushko  na  avdrah  \  vyushta  asld  anuditah  sury.ah  \  na  vai  etad  diva  na 
naktam  \  tasya  etasmin  lake  apam  phenena  sirah  udavartayat  \  "  Indra,  after  having 
slain  Vritra  and  defeated  the  Asuras,  could  not  catch  Namuchi,  who  was  one  of  that 
race.  He  (Namuchi)  captured  him  (Indra)  with  S'achi  [or  by  force].  These  two 
laid  hold  of  each  other.  The  one  (Namuchi)  was  stronger  than  th&  other  (Indra). 
He  (Namuchi)  said :  'Let  us  make  an  agreement;  then  I  shall  let  thee  go.  Promise 
that  thou  wilt  smite  me  neither  with  dry  nor  vet,  neither  by  day  nor  by  night.'  He 
(Indra)  anointed  (the  thunderbolt)  with  this  foam  of  the  waters,  which  was  neither 
dry  nor  wet.  It  was  twilight, — the  sun  not  risen ;  neither  day  nor  night.  He  smote 
off  his  head  with  the  foam  of  the  waters."  The  story  is  also  told  in  the  Indra- vijaya 
(published  by  Holtzmann),  w.  185  ff. ;  Mahabharata,  Udyoga-parvan,  vv.  320  ff. 

This  story  of  Indra  destroying  Namuchi  with  foam  i3  again  told  in  the  Mahabhitrata, 
S'alya-parvan  (vv.  2434  ff.)  :  Namuchir  Vamvad  bffitah  surya-ras'mim  samavisat  \ 
tenendrah  sakhyam  akarot  samayanchedam  abrav'it  \  "^na  chardrena,  na  s'ushkena  na 


262  QUOTATION  FROM  THE  VISHNU  PTTRAXA 

was  to  be  made  into  the  wombs  of  De^aki  and  Rohini,  the  manifesta- 
tion of  the  deity  in  all  his  plenitude  is  to  be  understood  as  effected 
through  the  medium  of  the  two  hairs." 

I  add  an  interesting  passage  from  the  Vishnu  Purana,  i.  22,  36«ff., 
where  Vishuu  is  first  of  all  placed  on  a  level  with  Brahma  and  S'iva ; 
but  afterwards  declared  to  be  the  highest  form  of  Brahma : 

36.  Dve  rfipe  Brahmanas  tasya  murtam  chdmurtam  eva  cha  \  kshard- 
kshara-svarupe  te  sarva-bhuteshv  avasthite  \  37,  aksharam  paramam 
Brahma  ksharam  sarvam  idam  jagat  \  38.  eka-desa-sthitasydgner  jyotsnd 
vistdrini  yathd  \  parasya  Brahmanah  saktis  tathedam  akhilam  jagat  \ 
39.  tatrdthdsanna-duratvdd  bahHtva-svalpatdmayah  \  jyotsnd-bhedo  'sti 
tachchhaktes  tadvad  Maiireya  vidyate  \  40.  Brahma- Vishnu- S'ivdh 
brahman  pradhdndh  Brahma-saktayah  \  tatas  cha  devdh  Maitreya  nyu- 
ndh.  Yakshddayas  tatah  \  41.  Tata  manushydh  pasavo  mriga-pakshi- 
sarlsripdh  \  nyundh  nyunataras  chaiva  vriksha-gulmddayas  tatah  \  tad 
ttad  akshayam  nityam  jag  ad  muni-vardkhilam  \  dvirbhava-tirobhdva- 
janma-ndsa-vikalpavat  \  42.  Sarva-saktimayo  Vishnuh  svarupam  Brah- 
manah  param  \  murtam  yad  yogibhih  purvam  yogdrambheshu  chintyate  \ 
43.  sdlambano  mahdyogah  savijo  yatra  samsthitah  \  manasy  avydhate 
samyag  yunjatdmjdyate  mune  \  44.  sa  par  ah  sarva-siktindm  Brahmanah 
samanantarah  \  murta-brahma  mahdbhdga  sarva-brahmamayo  Harih  \ 
45.  tatra  sarvam  idam  protam  otam  chaivdkhilam  jagat  \  tato  jagat  jagat 
tasmin  sajagach  chdkhilam  mune  \  46.  kshardksharamayo  Vishnur  bibharty 
akhilam  Isvarah  \  purushdvydkritamayam  bhushandstra-svarupavat  \ 

ratrau  napi  chahani  \  badhishyamy  asura-sreshtha  sakhe  satyena  te  s'ape"  \  evaih  sa 
kritva  samayam  drishtva  niJiaram  Isvarah  \  chichhedasya  siro  rajann  apam  phenena 
Vasavah  \  tach  chhiro  Namuches  chhinnam  prishthatah  S'akram  anviyat  \  bho  mitra- 
hana  papeti  bruvrinam  S'akram  antikat  \  evaih  sa  si'~asa  tena  chodyamanah  punah 
punah  |  Pitatnahaya  santaptah  etam  artham  nyavedayat  \  tarn  abravit  loka-gurur 
arunayam  yathiKidhi  \  ishtvopasprisa  devendra  tlrlhe  papa-bhayapahe  \  "  Namuchi 
teing  afraid  of  Indra,  entered  into  a  ray  of  the  sun.  Indra  formed  a  friendship  with 
him,  and  uttered  this  agreement :  '  I  shall  neither  slay  thee  with  wet  nor  with  dry, 
neither  in  the  night  nor  in  the  day ;  I  swear  in  truth,  to  thee,  my  friend,  thou  most 
eminent  of  Asuras.'  Having  made  this  agreement,  the  lord  Vasava  (Indri),  be- 
holding a  fog,  [when  it  was  neither  night  nor  day],  cut  off  his  head  with  the  foam 
of  the  waters  [which  was  r either  wet  nor  dry].  That  head  of  Namuchi,  after  being 
cut  off,  followed  close  after  Indra,  calling  out,  '  0  wicked  slayer  of  thy  friend.' 
Being  thus  again  and  again  pressed  by  the  head,  and  being  distressed,  he  [Indra] 
represented  the  matter  to  Pitaroaha  (Brahma).  The  lord  (or  teacher)  of  the  world 
(Brahma)  said  to  him;  'Having  sacrificed,  touch  [the  waters]  in  the  Aruna,  that 
sacred  spot,  which  removes  sin  "and  fear,'  "  etc. 


REGARDING  THE  DIFFERENT  ENERGIES  OF  BRAHMA.      263 

j 

"Of  that  Brahma  there  are/ two  conditions,  one  possessed  of  form, 
the  other  formless.  These  decaying  and  undecaying  states  exist  in  all 
creatures.  The  undecaying  is  the  highest  Brahma ;  the  decaying  is 
this  entire  universe.  Just  as  ligty;  is  diffused  from  a  fire  Vhich  is  con- 
fined to  one  spot,  so  is  this  whole  universe  the  [diffused]  energy  of 
the  supreme  Brahma.  And  as  light  shows  a  difference,  greater  or 
less,  according  ti)  its  nearness  or  distance  from  the  fire,  so  is  there"  a 
variation  in  the  energy  of  Brahma.  Brahma,  Vishnu  and  S'iva  are  his 
chief  energies.  The  deities  are  inferior  to  them ;  the  Yakshas,  etc.,  ,to 
the  deities ;  men,  cattle,  wild  animals,  hirds  and  reptiles  to  the  Yakshas, 
etc. ;  and  trees  and  plants  are  the  lowest  of  all  [these  energies].  This 
entire  universe,  which,  0  most  excellent  Muni,  is  subject  to  appearrtnce 
and  disappearance,  to  production,  to  destruction,  and  to  change,  is  yet 
undecaying  and  eternal.  Vishnu,  containing  all  the  energies,  is  the 
highest  form  of  Brahma,  which,  at  the.  commencement  of  their  ab- 
straction, is  contemplated  by  Yogins  as  invested  with  shape.  Directed  to 
him,  the  great  union  (mahayoga)  with  its  basis,  and  its  germs,  is  produced 
in  the  undistracted  minds  of  the  devotees.  Hari  (Yishnu)  is  the  highest 
and  most  immediate  of  all  the  energies  of  Brahma,  the  embodied 
Brahma,  formed  of  the  whole  of  Brahma.  On  him  this  entire  universe 
is  woven  and  interwoven :  from  him  is  the  world,  and  the  world  is  in 
him ;  and  he  is  the  whole  universe.  Yishnu,  the  lord,  consisting  of 
what  is  perishable  as  well  as  what  is  imperishable,  sustains  everything, 
both  Purusha  and  Prakriti,  in  the  form  of  his  ornaments  and  weapons." 
[The  writer  goes  on  to  explain  what  is  meant  by  the  last  clause. 
Yishnu  bears  or  wears  Purushtl  as  the  Kaustubha  gem,  Prakriti  as  the 
S'rivatsa,  etc.  See  Wilson's  translation,  vol.  ii.  p.  94  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.] 

In  the  earlier  part  of  "the  same  section  (Wilson,  vol.  ii.,  pp.  86  f.)  it 
is  said  that  all  kings,  whether  of  men,  gods,  Daityas,  Danavas,  or 
Kakshasas,  are  portion's  of  Yishnu. 

VII.  In  several  of  the  passages  which  have  been  already  cited  in 
the  .preceding  pages,  Yishnu  has  Deen  identified  with  the  supreme 
spirit  (see  above,  pp.  38,  50,  181).  I  shall  now  proceed  to  adduce 
some  others  of  the  same  kind  from  the  Mahaoharata.  In  the  S'anti- 
parvan,  vv.  1500ff.  Yudhishthira  says  to  ^rishna  : 

Tava  Krishna  prasddena  nayena  cha  lalena  cha  I  luddhyd  cha  Yadu- 
sdrdula  tatha  vikramanena  cha  \  punah  prdptam  idam  rdjyam  pitri- 


264  PASSAGES  IN  WHICH  KRISHNA  IS 

paitdmaham  mayd  \  namas  te  Pundarlk&ksha  punah  punar  arindama  \ 
tvam  ekam  ahuh  Purusham  tvdm  dhuh  Sdttvatdm  gatim  \  ndmabhis  tvdm 
bahuvidhaih  stuvanti prayatdh  dvijdh  \  visvakarman  namas  te  'stu  visvdt- 
man  visva-sambhava  \  Vishno  jishno*.Hare  Krishna  Vaikuntha  Puru- 
shottama  \  Aditydh  saptadhd  tvam  tu  purdne  garbhatdm  gatah  \  Prisni- 
garbhas  tvam  evaikas  triyugam  tvam  vadanty  api  \  S'uchisravdh  Hrishl- 
keso  ghritdchir  hamsah  uchyase  \  trichakshuh  S'ambhur  ekas  tvam  vibhur 
Ddmodaro  'pi  cha  \  Varaho  'gnir  vrihadbhdnur  vrishabhas  Tdrhhya- 
laJcshanah  |  ....  1514.  Tonis  tvam  asya  pralayascha  Krishna  tvam 
evedam  srijasi  visvam  agre  \  visvanchedafn,  tvad-vase  visvayone  namo  'stu 
te  sdrnga-chalcrdsi-pune  \ 

"  By  tliy  favour,  Krisbna,  chief  of  the  Yadus,  and  policy,  and 
power,  and  understanding,  and  valour,  I  have  recovered  this  kingdom 
of  my  father  and  grandfathers.  Adoration  be  to  thee,  lotus-eyed, 
subdiier  of  thy  foes,  again  and  again.  Thee  alone  men  call  Purusha  : 
thee  alone  they  call  the  refuge  of  the  Satvats.  Devout  twice-born 
men  laud  thee  by  names  of  various  kinds.  Glory  be  to  thee,  thou 
maker  of  all,  thou  soul  of  all,  thou  source  of  all,  Vishnu,  conqueror, 
Hari,  Krishna,  Yaikuntha,  chief  of  spirits  (or  males).  Of  old  thou 
didst  become  the  sevenfold  offspring  of  Aditi.260  Thou  alone  art  Pris- 
nigarbha:  they  also  call  thee  [him  who  exists  in]  the  three  ages 
(yugas}.  Thou  art  called  S'uchisravas,  Hrishikesa,  Ghritachi,  and 
Hansa.  Thou  alone  art  the  three-eyed  S'ambhu  (Mahadeva)  and  Da- 
modara,  the  pervading,  the  Boar,  Agni,  Vrihadbhanu,261  the  Bull,  he 
whose  sign  is  Tarkshya  (Garuda)."  A  long  list  of  other  titles  then 
follows,  concluding  with  these  words :  *"  Thou  art  the  source  and  the 
destruction  of  this  universe,  Krishna :  it  is  thou  who  Greatest  it  in  the 
beginning,  and  it  is  all  in  thy  power,  thou  source  of  all  things :  glory 
be  to  thee  who  wieldest  the  bow,  the  discus,  and  the  sword." 

A  little  further  on,  at  vv.  1604  ff.,  a  long  hymn  of  Bhishma  to 
Krishna  is  given,  in  which  the  following  lines  occur : 

1609  |  Yasmin  visvdni  bhutdni  tishthanti  cha  visanti  cha  \  gvna- 
bhutani  bhutese  sutre  mani-gandh  iva  \  yasmin  nitye  tate  tantau  dridhd 
srag  iva  tishthati  \  sad-asad  grathitam  visvam  visv&nge  viita-karmani,\ 

260  This,  I  suppose,  refers  to  the  Adityas  being  in  the  Veda  spoken  of  as  only 
seven  in  number.     See  above,  pp.  114  ff. 
361  A  name  of  Agni. 


IDENTIFIED  WITH  THE  SUPREME  SPIRIT.  265 

Harifh   sahasra-sirasam   sahasm-charanekshanam  \    sahasw-ldhu-muku- 

f         *  ~ 

tarn   sahasra-vadanojjvalam  \  prdhur   Narayanam  devafh  yam  visvasya 

pardyanam  \  ariiyasdm  ariiydmsam  sthavishfham  cha  sthaviyasdm  \.garl- 
yasam  garishtham  cha  sreshfham  cha  sreyasdm  api  \  yarn,  vdkeshv  anuvd- 
Jceshu  nishatsupanishatsu  cha  \  grinanti  satya-Tcarmdnam  satyam  satyeshu 

sdmasu  \  ityddi  \ 1616.  Sarvdtmd  qarva-vit  sarvah  sarvajnah 

sarva-bhdvanah  \  yam  devafh  Devoid  devl  Vasudevdd  ajljanat  \  Bhaumasya 
Brahmano  guptyai  dlptam  Agnim  ivdranih  |  .  .  .  .  1622.  Yasmin  lokdh 
sphurantlme  jale  iakunayo  yathd  \ 

"  In  whom,  the  lord  of  beings,  all  beings,  existing  as  his  qualities, 
abide  and  enter,  like  gems  [strung]  upon  a  thread, :  upon  whom,  the 
universal-membered  artificer  of  all  things, '  extended  as  a  strong  and 
eternal  thread,  the  universe,  existent  and  non-existent,  abides,  arranged, 
like  a  chaplet ;  Hari,  the  thousand-headed,  thousand-footed,  thousand- 
eyed,  with  a  thousand  arms  and  diadems,  resplendent  with  a  thousand 
faces,  whom  they  call  Narayana,  the  god  who  transcends  all,  the 
minutest  of  the  minute,  the  vastest  of  the  vast,  the  greatest  of  the 
great,  the  most  eminent  of  the  eminent,  whom,  true,  and  true  in  act, 
they  celebrate  in  'vakas,'  'anuvakas,'  in  '  nishads,'262  and  in  'upa- 
nishads,'  and  in  true  '  sama'-hymns,  .  .  .  1616.  the  soul  of  all,  the  omni- 
scient, the  all,  the  all-knowing,  the  producer  of  all,  the  god  whom 
the  goddess  Devaki  bore  to  Vasudeva,  for  the  preservation  of  the 
terrestrial  deity  (i.e.  the  Vedas,  Brahmans  and  sacrifices,  Comm.)  as 
Arani  (the  wood  used  for  kindling  fire>),263  produced  the  flaming  Agni. 
....  1622.  In  whom  ttosse  worlds  flutter,  like  birds  in  water,"  etc. 


262  This  is  the  only  place  31  which  I  have  ever  met  with  this  word.  I  am  unable 
to  say  whether  Indian  literature  contains  any  such  writings  as  '  nishads,'  or  whether 
the  term  is  a  purely  fictitious  one,  invented  by  the  author  of  this  passage  to  denote 
a  principal  and  original  set  of  writings  to  which  the  TJpanishads  may  have  formed, 
in  his  idea,  a  secondary  and  supplemental  class,  as  the  Upapuranas  do  to  the  Purilnas. 
Nllakantha,  one  of  the  commentators  (whether  conjecturally,  or  on  good  grounds,  I 
cannqt  say),  explains  nishatsu  as  meaning^karmangady-avabaddha-devatadi-jnana- 
vakyeshu,  "works  treating  of  the  knowledge  of  the  deities,  etc.,  connected  with  the 
ceremonial  part  of  the  Veda,"  etc.  The  Upanishads  "  reveal  the  knowledge  of  soul 
alone"  (kevalatma-jnapaka-vakyeshu).  Vakas,  according  to  the  same  authority, 
"make  known  ceremonies  generally"  (samanyatah  karma-prakas'akeshu) ;  while  anu- 
vakas  are  "  texts  of  the  Brahmanas,  explanatory  of  the  sense  of  the  mantras,  or  Yedic 
hymns"  (mantrartha-vivarana-bhflteshu  brahmana-vakyeshu). 

863  See  the  5th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  208  ff. 


2C6  BRAHMA  AND  RUDRA  PRODUCED  FROM  VISHNU. 

In  the  following  passage,  also  from  the  fc/anti-parvan,  Krishna  identifies 
himself  with  the  supreme  Spirit,  and  represents  Brahma  and  Mahadeva 
as  ha.ving  proceeded  from  him.  In  it  the  writer  likewise  endeavours 
to  explain  away  the  effect  of  certain  texts  in  other  parts  of  the  poem 
(see  above,  pp.  185-204),  in  which  Krishna  is  related  to  have 
worshipped  Mahadeva,  and  which  were  no  doubt  felt  to  -be  inconsistent 
with  the  supreme  deity  of  the  former.  The  difficulty  is  attempted  to 
be  overcome  by  the  explanation  that  in  worshipping  Rudra,  he  was 
only  worshipping  himself.  In  the  verses  13133  ff.  Arjuna  asks 
Krishna  to  interpret  the  different  appellations  which  had  been  applied 
to  him  in  the  Vedas  and  Puranas ;  and  this  Krishna  accordingly 
proceeds  to  do,  remarking,  by  the  way  that  Arjuna  had  been  of  old 
declared  to  be  his  own  half264  (tvam  hi  me  'rdham  smritah  purd}. 
Narayana  (i.e.  Vishnu),  he  says,  was  the  source  of  all  things,  and  from 
him  Brahma  and  S'iva  were  produced ;  the  one  from  his  good  pleasure, 
the  other  from  his  anger  (13140.  Yasya  prasddajo  Brahma  Rudrascha 
krodha,-sambhavali).  He  then  goes  on  (13144):  Brdhme  rdtri-Tcshaye 
prdpte  tasya  hy  amita-tejasah  \  prasdddt  prddurabhavat  padmam  padma- 
nibhekshana  \  tato  Brahma  samabhavat  sa  tasyaiva  prasddajah  \  ahnah 
Tfshaye  lalutdchcha  suto  devasya  vai  tathd  \  krodhdvishtasya  sanjajne 
Rudrah  samhdra-lcdrakah  \  etau  dvau  vibudha-sreshthau  prasdda-krodha- 
j'dv  ubhau  |  tad-ddesita-panthdnau  srishti-samhdra-Jcdrakau  \  nimitta- 
mdtram  tdv  atra  sarva-prdni-vara-pradau  \  Jcapardl  jatilo  mundah 
smasdna-griha-sevakah  \  ugra-vrata-dharo  Rudro  yogi  parama-ddrunah  \ 
Dalcsha-kratu-hara£chaiva  Bhaga-netra-haras*  tathd  \  Ndrdyandtmaho 
jneyah  Pdndaveya  yuge  yuge  \  tasmin  hi  pujyamdne  vai  deva-deve  Mahe- 
ivare  \  sampujito  bhavet  Pdrtha  devo  Ndrdyanah  prrabhuh  \  aham  dtmd 
hi  lokdndm  visveshdm  Pandu-nandana  \  13152.  tasmtid  dtmdnam  evdgre 
Rudrdm  sampujaydmy  aham  I  yady  aham  ndrchayeyam  vai  Isdndm 
varadam  S'ivam  \  dtmdnam  ndrchayet  kaschid  iti  me  bhdvitdtmanah  \ 
mayd  pramdnam  hi  kritam  lokah  samanuvartate  \  pramdndni  hi  pujydni 
tatas  tarn  pujaydmy  aham  \  yas  tarn  vetti  sa  mdm  vetti  yo  'nu  tarn  ««  hi 
mam  anu  \  Rudro  Ndrdyanas  chaiva  sattvam  ekam  dvidhdkritam  \  loke 
charati  Kaunteya  vyakti-stham  sarva-karmasu  \  na  hi  me  kenachid  deyo 
varah  Pdndava-nandana  \  it,"'  sanchintya  manasd  purdnam  Rudram  Isva- 
ram  \  putrdrtham  dvadhitavdn  aham  dtmdnam  dtmand  \  na  hi  Vishnuh 
*64  See  the  other  passages  about  their  identity,  or  intimate  union,  above,  pp.  228  if. 


BRAHMA,  VISHNU,  RUDRA,  AND  THE  THREE  GTJNAS.       237 

pranamati  kasmaichit  viludhuya  cha  \  rile  dtmunam  eveti  tato  Jtudram 
bhaj'dmy  aham  \  sabrahmakdh' sarudrdscha  sendrdh  devdh  saharshibhih  \ 
archayanti  sura-sreshtfiam  devam  Ndrdyanam  Harim  \  lhavishyatum 
vartatdncha  bhutdndnchaiva  Shdrata  \  sarveshdm  agramr  Vishnuh 
sevyah  pujyaseha  nityasah  ityddi  \ 

"  When  the  end  of  Brahma's  night  had  arrived,  there  sprang  from 
the  good  pleasure  of  that  being  of  boundless  power  a  lotus,  0  thou 
whose  eyes  are  like  a  lotus.  From  it  was  produced  Brahma,  who  was 
the  offspring  of  his  (Yishnu's)  good  pleasure ;  and  at  the  end  of  the 
day  Eudra  the  destroyer  was  born  from  the  forehead  of  the  god  when 
he  was  possessed  with  anger.  These  two  eminent  gods,  produced  [the 
one]  from  his  good  pleasure,  [the  other]  from  his  anger,265  have  their 

265  I  quote  the  following  from  the  Maitri  Upanishad,  5th  Prapathaka :  Tamo  vai 
idam  agre  asTd  ekam  \  tat  pare  syat  \  tM  tat  parena  Iritam  vishamatvam  prayati  ] 
etad  rupam  vai  rajah  \  tad  rajah  khalv  iritam  vishamatvam  prayati  \  etad  vai 
sattvasya  rupam  \  tat  sattvam  eva  Iritam  rasah  samprasravat  \  so  'mso  'yam  yas 
cheta-matrah  pratipurushah  khetrajnah  sankalpddhyavasayabhimana-lingah  \  Praja- 
patir  Visva  ity  asya  prag  uktah  etas  tanavah  \  atha  yo  ha  khalu  vava  asya  tamaso 
'mso  'sau  sa  brahmacharino  yo  'yam  Rudrah  \  atha  yo  ha  khalu  vava  asya  rajaso 
'mso  'sau  sa  brahmacharino  yo  'yam  Brahma  \  atha  yo  ha  khalu  vava  asya  sattviko 
'mso  'sau  sa  brahmacharino  yo  'yam  Vishnuh  \  sa  vai  esha  ekas  tridha  bhuto'shtadha 
ekadasadJta  dvadasadha  ap&rimitadha  vaudbhutah  udbhutatvad  bhutam  bhuteshu  cha- 
rati  pravishtah  sa  bhutanam  adhipatir  babhuva  \  ity  asa  atma  antar  bahis  cha  antar 
bahis  cha  \  This  passage  is  translated  as  follows  by  Professor  Cowell:  "Verily  this 
was  at  the  first  darkness  alone ;  it  abode  in  the  Supreme ;  then,  being  set  in  motion 
by  the  Supreme,  it  passes  into  inequality.  This  condition  becomes  activity  (rajas'] : 
this  activity,  being  set  in  motion,  passes  into  inequality.  This  becomes  the  con- 
dition of  Goodness.  This  goodness  alone  w*as  set  in  motion;  and  Flavour  flowed 
forth.  This  is  a  portion  [of  the  Soul]  which  is  only  measured  by  the  Soul,  reflected 
in  each  individual,  cognizant  of  the  body,  and  possessing  as  its  signs  volition,  ascer- 
tainment, and  consciousness.  Prajapati,  Vis'wa. — these  and  the  like,  before  mentioned, 
are  its  forms.  As  for  it&  darkness-characterized"  [tamasati]  "portion,  that,  0 
ye  students,  is  the  same  as  Rudra;  as  for  its  activity-characterized"  [rajasah] 
"  portion,  that,  0  students,  is  the  same  as  Brahman ;  and  as  for  its  goodness-cha- 
racterized" [sattvikah]  "''portion,  that,  0  students,  is  the  same  as  Vishnu.  He  truly 
is  one,  existing  as  threefold,  as  eightfold,  as  elevenfold,  as  twelvefold,  as  infinite  fold ; 
he  is  manifested  every  where.;  and,  from  being  thus  manifested,  he  is  the  Being;  he 
ent<u:s  and  pervades  all  beings,  he  is  the  lord  of  beings.  Thus  he,  the  Soul,  is 
within  and  without,  within  and  without." 

In  the  Vayu-purana,  sect.  66,  as  quoted  by  Professor  AufreCnt  in  his  "  Catalogus 
Modicum  Sanscriticorum,"  p.  56i,  it  is  declared  by  Suta  that  there  is  but  one  God, 
who  assumed  three  forms  (rajasl,  sattvikl,  iamasi  tajius]  for  the  creation,  preservation, 
and  destruction  of  the  world.  In  the  Deva-Bhagavata  Parana,  book  i.,  sect.  4, 
T.  46,  quoted  in  the  same  Catalogue,  p.  80a,  Narada  tells  Vyasa  mat  Vishnu  had  once 
spoken  to  Brahma  as  follows :  Srashta  tvampalakas  chaham  Harah  samhara-karakah  \ 


268         KRISHNA  EXPLAINS  WHY  HE  WORSHIPPED  S'lVA. 

courses  prescribed  by  him,  [and  are]  the',  accomplishers  [respectively] 
of  creation  and  destruction.  In  this,  these  bestowers  of  boons  on  all 
creatures  are  merely  instrumental  causes.  Riidra,  with  braided  hair 
and  matted  locks,  shaven,  the  frequenter  of  cemeteries,  the  performer 
of  awful  rites,  the  devotee,  the  very  terrible,  he  who  swept  away 
Daksha's  sacrifice,  and  put  out  Bhaga's  eyes,  is  to  be  understood  by 
thee  to  possess  in  every  age  the  nature  of  Narayana.  For  when  that 
god  of  gods  Mahesvara  is  worshipped,  then,  Son  of  Pritha,  the  god 
Narayana,  the  lord,  will  also  be  worshipped.  I  am  the  soul  of  all  the 
worlds.  13152.  It  was  therefore  myself  whom  I  formerly  worshipped 
as  Eudra.  If  I  were  not  to  worship  Isana,  the  boon-bestowing  S'iva, 
no  one  would  worship  myself  [or  the  Soul] — this  is  [the  reflection  made] 
by  me  who  am  contemplative  in  spirit.  An  authoritative  example  is 
set  by  me  [which]  the  world  follows.266  Authoritative  examples  are 
to  be  reverenced  :  hence  I  reverence  him  (S'iva).  He  who  knows  him 
knows  me ;  he  who  loves  him  loves  me.267  Rudra  and  Narayana,  one 
essence,  divided  into  two,  operate  in  the  world,  in  a  manifested  form, 
in  all  acts.  Reflecting  in  my  mind  that  no  boon  could  be  conferred 
upon  me  by  any  one,  I  [yet]  adored  the  ancient  Rudra,  the  lord,  [that 
is]  I,  with  myself  adored  myself,  to  obtain  a  son  (see  p.  195).  For 
Vishnu  does  not  do  homage  to  any  god,  excepting  himself:  hence  I 
[in  this  sense]  worship  Rudra.  The  gods,  including  Brahma,  Rudra, 
and  Indra,  together  with  the  rishis,  worship  the  god  Narayana,  Hari, 
the  most  eminent  of  the  deities.  ,  Yishmi  the  chief  of  all  who  shall  be, 
are,  or  have  been,  is  to  be  served  and  worshipped  continually." 

In  the   following  passage  (Anusasana-parvan,  vv.  6295  ff.),  some 

kritah  keneti  so,  tarkah  kriyate  veda-paragaih  \  47  |  Jagat-sanjanane  t/aktis  tvayi 
vartati  rajasl  \  sattvikl  mayi  Rudre  cha  tamasl  pariklrtita  \  48  |  taya  virahitas  tvam 
tu  na  hy  etat  karane  prabhuh  \  naham  palayitmh  saktah  saii'hartum  napi  S'ankarah  ] 
49  |  tad-adhtnah  vayaih  sarve  vartamah  satatam  vibho  \  46.  "  The  question  by  what 
thou  art  made  th'e  creator,  I  the  preserver,  and  Hara  the  destroyer,  is  proposed  by  those 
who  have  studied  the  Veda.  47.  In  th£e  there  exists  a  passionate  [or  '  active,'  as 
Professor  Cowell  translates  rajasi~\  energy,  [which  operates]  in  the  production  of  the 
world,  in  me  there  is  fleclared  to  be  a  pure  [sattvikl~\,  and  in  Eudra  a  dark  [tatn<uef]t 
energy.  48.  If  we  were  destitute  of  these  several  energies,  thou  wouldest  be  unable 
to  create,  or  I  to  preserve,  or  S'ankara  to  destroy.  49.  We  are  continually  dependent 
upon  these  our  [respective  energies]." 

266  See  above,  p.  83,  tte  quotation  from  the  Bhagavad-gita,  iii.  21  ff. 

267  Compare  a  similar  sentiment  in  p.  230. 


DISPLAY  OF  KRISHNA'S  GLORY.  269 

» 

parts  of  which  may  be  later  interpolations,  Krishna  is  described  as 
pel-forming  a  ceremony  to  obtain  h  son,  at  the  same  time  that  he  is 
represented  as  the  supreme  deity.  Bhishma,  at  the  request  of  Yudhish- 
thira,  tells  him  a  story  illustrative  of  the  glory  of  Krishna.  He  states 
that  Krishna  had  performed  a  ceremonial  (vrata)  of  twelve  years' 
duration  (6397),  which  many  rishis  came 'to  witness.  In  presence  of 
these  rishis  flawe  issued  from  the  mouth  of  Krishna,  which  set  on  fire 
the  mountain  whers  lie  was,  and  burnt  up  everything  on  it ;  and 
having  done  so,  eame  back,  and  submissively  touched  his  feet.  The 
mountain  was  afterwards  restored  to  its  natural  condition.  Seeing  the 
rishis  astonished  at  this  display,  Krishna  asks  the  cause  of  their 
surprise.  They  request  that  he  who  is  the  creator  and  destroyer  of 
all  things  will  explain  to  them  the  phenomenon  which  they  have  just 
witnessed.  He  replies  that  this  was  the  power  (tejas)  of  Yishnu 
which  had  issued  from  his  mouth.  He  had  come,  he  informs  them, 
to  this  mountain  to  perform  a  ceremony  with  the  view  of  obtaining 
a  son  like  himself  (6320);  and  the  soul  residing  in  his  body  had 
become  fire,  and  blazed  forth,  and  had  gone  to  see  the  parent  of  the 
world,  when  Mahadeva  had  declared  that  a  son  should  be  created  for 
him  out  of  the  half  of  his  power  (tejas).  Krishna  next  calls  on  the 
rishis  to  tell  him  any  wonders  they  had  seen  or  heard  of  in  heaven  or 
on  earth.  The  rishis  then,  after  celebrating  Krishna's  praises,  appoint 
Narada  to  describe  the  wonders  which  had  been  witnessed  by  the 
rishis  on  the  Himalaya  mountain,  when  they  had  gone  thither  on  a 
pilgrimage  to  the  holy  places.  Naracia  accordingly  proceeds  to  give  an 
account  of  a  long  conversation  which  had  taken  place  between  Maha- 
deva and  his  wife  Uma  or  ParvatI,  the  daughter  of  the  Himalaya. 
Mahadeva,  it  appears,  'had  been  performing  austerity  (tapas,  vv.  6340, 
6348)  on  that  mountain,  where  he  was  surrounded  by  his  attendant 
demons  (Bhutas)  and  by  the  nymphs  (Apsarases),  etc.,  etc.  While  he 
was  sitting  in  that  delightful  region,  clothed  in  tigers'  and  lions'  skins, 
with  a  serpent  for  his' sacrificial  card  (6355  f.),  his  wife  Uma  comes, 
up,  clothed  in  the  same  style  as  her  husband,  with  her  attendant 
demonesses  (Bhuta-strl-gana],  and  playfully  ^puts  her  hands  over  his 
eyes.  The  effects  of  this  act  are  tremendous.  Suddenly  the  world 
becomes  darkened,  lifeless,  and  destitute  of  oblations  and  vashatkaras, 
etc.  This  gloom,  however,  is  as  suddenly  dispelled  by  a  great  flame 


270         CONVERSATION  BETWEEN  MAHADEVA  AND  UMA,  ETC. 

which  bursts  from  Mahadeva's  forehead,  in  which  a  third  eye,  luminous 
as  the  sun,  was  formed  (6367).  By  the  fire  of  this  eye  the  mountain 
was  scorched  and  everything  upon  it  consumed.  Urna  hereupon  stands 
in  a  submissive  attitude  before  her  lord,  when  in  a  moment  her  parent, 
the  Himalaya,  is  restored  to  his  former  condition.  A  long  conversation 
then  ensues  between  Mahadeva  and  Uma.  The  latter  inquires  why 
Mahadeva's  third  eye  had  been  formed  (6379),  and  pats  a  number  of 
questions  about  himself,  and  the  various  dutiet  01  men  (6412  ff.),  all 
of  ^which  he  answers.  Mahadeva  next,  in  'his  turn,  asks  Uma  to 
describe  the  duties  of  women.  She  says  she  will  consult  the  rivers 
in  regard  to  the  question.  The  Ganga  replies  on  their  behalf  that 
Uma  herself  should  furnish  the  answer,  which,  as  Bhishma  tells  us, 
she  accordingly  does  (6780  ff.).  Bhishma  then  informs  us  (v.  6804) 
that,  at  the  close  of  Uma's  discourse,  Mahadeva  dismissed  his  at- 
tendant demons,  with  the  rivers,  nymphs,  and  celestial  choristers 
(Gandharvas).  We  might  have  expected  here  that  Narada  (who 
had  hitherto  been  the  narrator  of  what  was  done  and  said  on  the 
Himalaya)  would  have  finished  his  account  of  all  that  occurred 
there,  without  the  introduction  of  the  other  interlocutor;  but,  as 
I  have  said,  he  is  interrupted  by  Bhishma  at  v.  6804,  and  afterwards 
introduced  again  at  v.  6870.  "Whatever  may  be  the  reason,  we  are 
first  told  by  Bhishma  (v.  6804)  that  the  rishis  now  requested  Maha- 
deva to  describe  to  them  the  greatness  of  Vasudeva  (Krishna).  At  the 
close  of  Mahadeva's  discourse,  Narada  is  again  abruptly  introduced 
(6870),  and  relates  that  a  great  sound  of  thunder  accompanied  with 
lightning  was  then  heard,  and  the  sky  became  covered  with  thick 
clouds  and  veiled  in  darkness.  Mahadeva  and  his  attendant  demons 
were  now  no  longer  visible  to  the  munis.  (The  departure  of  the 
demons  and  the  other  classes  of  beings  had,  however,  been  previously 
told  in  v.  6804.)  The  darkness  then  suddenly  clears  away.  Narada 
next  observes  to  Krishna  (6875)  that  he  was  the  eternal  being,  one 
with  Brahma,  about  whom  they  had  been  instructed  on  the  mountain. 
At  the  close  of  Narada's  discourse,  the  rishis  express  their  devotion  to 
Krishna  (6879  if.),  andv  say  that  as  he  knew  all  things,  he  had  no 
occasion  to  ask  them  for  any  information  such  as  had  been  given  at  his 
request.  They  end  by  giving  him  what,  after  this  avowal  of  his  om- 
niscience, was  (one  would  have  thought)  a  needless  assurance,  that  he 


FINAL  EMANCIPATION  ATTAINED  BY  WORSHIPPING  VISHNU.  271 

should  have  a  son  like  himself.  Bhishma  then  relates  that,  after  com- 
pleting the  rite  on  which  he  had  been  engaged,  Krishna  returned  to 
Dvaraka,  where  a  son  wds  born  to  him  (6889),  and  goes  on  to  expatiate 
yet  further  on  his  divine  character.  Yudhishthira,  however,  is  still 
unsatisfied,  and  inquires  as  follows  (6937  ff.) : 

Kim  eJcam  daivatam  lake  him  va  py  ekam  pardyanam  \  Team  stuvantah 
kam  archantah  pr^upnuyur  mdnavdh  subham  \  Tcb  dharmah  sarva-dharma- 
nam  lhavatah  paramo  majah  \  kirn  japan  muchyate  jantur  janma-samsdra- 
bandhandt  \  Bhlshmah  uvdcha  \  Jagat-prabhum  deva-devam  anantam 
purushottamam  \  stuvan  ndma-sahasrena  purushah  satatotthit'ah  \  tain  eva 
chdrchayan  nityam  bhalctyd  purushcm  avyayam  \  dhydyan  stuvan  nama- 
syamscha  yajamdnas  tarn  eva  cha  \  an-ddi-nidhanaih  Vishnuih  sarva-loka- 
mahesvaram  \  lokddhyaksham  stuvan  nityam  sarva-duhkhdtigo  lhavet  \ 
Irahmanyam  sarva-dharma-jnam  lolidndm  klrti-vardhanan  \  loJca- 
ndtham  mahad  Ihutam  sarva-bhuta-lhavodbhavam  \  esha  me  sarva-dhar- 
mdndm  dharmo  'dhikatamo  matah  |  .  .  .  .  6946.  Yatah  sarvdni  bhutdni 
lhavanty  ddi-yugdgame  \  yasmimscha  pralayam  ydnti  punar  eva  yuga- 
Jcshtye  |  tasya  lolca-pradhdnasya  jaganndthasya  Ihupate  \  Fishnor  ndma- 
sahasram  me  srinu  pdpa-lhaydpaham  \ 

"What  is  the  one  deity  in  the  world,  or  what  is  the  one  highest 
object?  By  lauding  and  worshipping  whom  can  men  attain  to  felicity1? 
What  duty  is  regarded  by  .you  as  the  highest  of  all  duties  ?  By  mutter- 
ing what,  is  a  creature  freed  from  the  bonds  of  birth  and  of  the  world  ? 
Bhishma  answers :  A  man,  rising  continually,  and  lauding  with  his 
thousand  names  the  supreme  infinite  ±*urusha,  the  lord  of  the  world, 
the  god  of  gods,  worshipping  perpetually  with  devotion  this  undecaying 
Purusha,  contemplating,  praising,  reverencing,  and  adoring  him, 
Vishnu,  without  beginning  or  end,  the  great  lord  of  all  the  worlds, 
lauding  continually  the  ruler  of  the  worlds,  who  (the  ruler)  is  devout, 
skilled  in  all  duty,  tile  augmenter  of  the  renown  of  the  worlds,  the 
lord  of  the  world,  the  great  being,  the  source  of  the  existence  of  all 
beings,  [doing  all  this,  a%man]  will  orerpass  all  grief.  This  is  regarded 
by  me  as  the  greatest  of  all  duties.  .  .  .  v.  6946.  Hear,  king,  from 
me  the  sin-and»fear-removing  thousand  names  of  this  Vishnu,  chief  of 
the  world,  lord  of  the  world,  from  whom  all  creatures  spring  on  the 
arrival  of  the  commencing  yuga,  and  in  whom  again  they  are  absorbed 
at  the  end  of  the  yuga." 


272     RISHIS  DESIRE  MAHAD.  TO  EXPOUND  VASUD.'S  GREATNESS. 

These  thousand  names  of  Vishnu  are  then  detailed,  among  which 
the  following  occur,  all,  or  most  of  thjem,  ordinarily  appellations  of 
Mahadeva,  viz.  Sarva,  S'arva,  S'iva,  Sthanu  (v.  6953),  Isana  (v.  6957), 
Rudra  (v.  6962). 

Again,  we  are  informed  in  the  Anusasana-parvan,  that  the  rishis 
requested  Mahadeva  to  expound  to  them  the  greatness  of  Vasudeva 
(Krishna),  which  he  accordingly  does  in  vv.  6806  ff.  :, 

Pitdmahdd  api  varah  sdsvatah  Purusho  Harih  \  Krishna  jdmbunadd- 
bfydso  vyabhre  suryah  ivoditah  \  dasa-bdhur  mahdtejdh  devatdri-nisudanah\ 
srlvatsdnko  Hrishikesah  sarva-daivata-pujitah  \  Brahma  tasyodara-bhavas 
tathd  chdham  siro-bhavah  \  siroruhelhyo  jyotlmshi  romabhyascha  surd- 
surah  |  rishayo  deha-sambhutds  tathd  lokds  cha  sdsvatah  \  Pitdmaha- 
griham  sdkshdt  sarva-deva-griham  cha  sah  \  so  'sydh  prithivydh  kritsnd- 
ydh  srashtd  trilhuvanesvarah  \  samhartd  chaiva  bhutdndm  sthdvarasya 
charasya  cha  \  sa  hi  deva-varah  sdlcshdd  deva-ndthah  parantapah  \  sarva- 
jnah  sa  hi  samslishtah  sarvagah  sarvato-mukhah  \  paramdtmd  hrishlkesah 
sarvavydpl  mahesvarah  \  na  tasmdt  paramam  Ihutaih  trishu  lokeshu 
Tcinchana  \  sandtano  vai  Madhuhd  Govindah  iti  visrutah  \  sa  sarvdn 
pdrthivdn  sankhye  ghdtayi&hyati  mdnadah  \  sura-kdrydrtham  utpanno 
mdnu&ham  vapur  dsthitah  \  na  hi  deva-gandh  saktds  Trivikrama-vind~ 
kritdh  \  bhuvane  deva-kdrydni  kartum  ndyaka-varjitdh  \  ndyakah  sarva- 
bhutdndm  sarva-lhuta-namaskritah  \  etasya fdeva-ndthasya  deva-kdrya- 
ratasya  cha  \  brahma-hhutasya  satatam  deyarshi-saranasya  cha  \  Brahma 
vasati  garbhasthah  sarire  mukha-samsthitah  \  sarvdh  sukham  samsritds  cha 
sarlre  tasya  devatdh\  sa  devah  pundankdkshah  srlgarbhah  srl-sahoshitah\ 
ityddi  \  .  .  .  6827.  lhavdrtham  iha  devdndm  buddhyd  paramayd  yutah  \ 
prdjdpatye  subhe  marge  Mdnave  dharma-samhite  \  samutpatsyati  Govindo 
Manor  vanise  mahdtmanah  |  .  .  .  .  v.  6835.  fosham  vikhydta-virydndm 
chdritra-gunasdlindm  \  yaj'vandm  suvisuddhdndm  vamse  brdhmana- 
sammate268  \  sa  S'urah  kshatriya-ireshtho  mahdjiryo  mahdyasuh  \  sva- 
vamsa-vistara-karam  janayishyati  mdnadah  \  Vasudevah  iti  khyutam 
putram  Anakadundubhim  \  tasya,  putras  chaturbdhur  Vdsudevo  bha- 
vishyati  \  data  Irdhmana-satkartd  brahmabhuto  dvija-priyah  |  .  .  .  . 
6842.  Tarn  bhavantah  samdsddya  vdn-mdlyair  arhanair  varaih  \  archa- 
yantu  yathdnydyam  Brahmdnam  iua  sdsvatam  \  yo  hi  mdm  drashtum 
ichheta  Brahmdnancha  pitdmaham  \  drashtavyas  tena  bhagavdn  Vdsu- 
368  Quere,  Brahmana-sammite,  "  equal  to  Brahmans  "  ? 


MAHADEVA  CELEBRATES  THE  GLORY  OF  KRISHXA.        273 

devah pratapavdn  \  drisJite  tasminn  ahani  drishto  na  me  'trdsti  vichdrand\ 
pitdmaho  vd  devesah  iti  vitta  tapodhandh  | 

"  Superior  even  to  Pitamaha  (Brahma)  is  Hari,  the  eternal  Purusha, 
Krishna,  brilliant  as  gold,  like  the  sun  risen  in  a  cloudless  sky,  ten- 
armed,  of  mighty  force,  slayer  of  the  foes  of  the  gods,  marked  with  the 
srivatsa,  Hrishlkesa,  adored  by  all  the  gods.  t  Brahma  is  sprung  from 
his  belly  and  I  (Mahadeva)  from  his  head,  the  luminaries  from  the  hair 
of  his  head,  the  gods  'an'd  Asuras  from  the  hairs  of  his  body,  and  the 
rishis,  as  well  as  the  everlasting  worlds,  have  been  produced  from  Ms 
body.  He  is  the  manifest  abode  of  Pitamaha,  and  of  all  the  deities. 
He  is  the  creator  of  this  entire  earth,  the  lord  of  the  three  worlds,  and 
the  destroyer  of  creatures,  of  the  stationary  and  the  movable.  He  is 
manifestly  the  most  eminent  of  the  gods,  the  lord  of  the  deities,  the 
vexer  of  his  foes.  He  is  omniscient,  intimately  united  [with  all  things], 
omnipresent,  facing  in  every  direction,  the  supreme  Spirit,  Hrishlkesa, 
all-pervading,  the  mighty  lord.  There  is  no  being  superior  to  him  in 
the  three  worlds.  The  slayer  of  Madhu  is  eternal,  renowned  as  Go- 
vinda.  He,  the  conferrer  of  honour,  born  to  fulfil  the  purposes  of  the 
gods,  and  assuming  a  human  body,  will  slay  all  the  kings  in  battle. 
For  all  the  hosts  of  the  gods,  destitute  of  Trivikrama  (the  god  who 
strode  thrice),  are  unable  to  effect  the  purposes  of  the  gods,  devoid  of 
a  leader.  He  is  the  leader  of  all  creatures,  and  worshipped  by  all 
creatures.  Of  this  lord  of  the  gods,  devoted  to  the  purposes  of  the 
gods,  who  is  Brahma,  and  is  the  constant  refuge  of  gods  and  rishis, 
Brahma  dwells  within  the  body,  abiding  in  his  face,  and  all  the  gods 
are  easily  sheltered  in  his  body.  This  god  is  the  lotus-eyed,  the  pro- 
ducer of  S'li,  dwelling  together  with  Sri.  .  .  .  6827.  For  the  welfare 
of  the  gods,  Govinda  shall  arise  in  the  family  of  the  great  Manu, 
possessed  of  eminent  intelligence,  and  [walking]  in  the  excellent  path 
of  the  Prajapati  Manu,  characterized  by  righteousness."  [Govinda's 
ancestors  are  then  detailed.]  6835.  "  In  this  family,  esteemed  by 
Brahraans,  of  men  renowned  for  valour,  distinguished  by  good  conduct 
and  excellent  qualities,  priests,  most  jTure,  this  Sura,  the  most  emi- 
nent of  Kshatriyas,  heroic,  renowned,  conferring  honour,  shall  beget 
a  son  Anakadundubhi,269  the  prolonger  of  his  race,  known  as  Vasu- 
deva.  To  him  shall  be  born  a  four-armed 'son,  Yasudeva,  liberal,  a 

269  See  "Wilson's  Vishnu  Purina,  p.  436=vol.  iv.,  p.  101,  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed. 
VOL.  iv.  18 


274      BH1SHMA  DECLAEES  KRISHNA'S  DIVINE  GREATNESS. 

benefactor  of  Brahmans,  one  with  Brahma,  a  lover  of  Brahmans.  .  .  . 
6842.  You  (the  gods)  should,  as  is  fit, I1  worship  this  deity,  like  the 
eternal  Brahma,  approaching  him  with  reverential  and  excellent  gar- 
lands of  praise.  For  the  divine  apd  glorious  Vasudeva  should  be 
beheld  by  him  who  desires  to  see  me  and  Brahma  the  Parent.  In 
regard  to  this  I  have  no  hesitation,  that  when  he  is  seen  I  am  seen,  or 
the  Parent  (Brahma),  the  lord  of  the  gods  :  know  this 'ye  whose  wealth 
is  austerity."  * 

•Further  on  in  the  same  Anusasana-parvan  (7356  ff.),  it  is  related 
that  Bhishma,  when  called  on  by  Yudhishthira  to  inform  him  what  are 
the  benefits  resulting  from  reverence  rendered  to  Brahmans,  refers  him 
to  Krishna,  whose  divine  •greatness  he  then  proceeds  to  set  forth  as 
follows  (vv.  7360  ff.) : 

JTrishnah  prithvlm  asrijat  kham  divancha  Krishnasya  dehdd  medinl 
sambabhuva  \  vardho  'yam  bhima-balah  purdnah  sa  parvatdn  vyasrijad 
vai  disascha  \  asya  chddho  'thdntariksham  divancha  disas  chatasro  vidisas 
chatasrah  \  srishtis  tathaiveyam  anuprasutd  sa  nirmame  visvam  idam 
purdnam  \  asya  ndbhydm  pushkaram  samprasutafii  yatropannah  svayam 
evdmitaujah  \  yena  chhinnam  yat  tamah  Pdrtha  ghoram  yat  tat  tishthaty 
arnavam  tarjaydnam  |  .  .  .  .  7388.  Vdyur  bhutvd  vikshipate  sa  visvam 
agnir  bhutvd  dahate  visva-rupah  \  dpo  bhutvd  majjayate  sa  sarvam 
Brahma  bhutvd  &rijate  sarva-sanghdn  \  vedyancha  yad  vedayate  cha 
vedyam  vidhischa  yas  chdsrayate  vidheyam  \  dharme  cha  vede  cha  bale  cha 
sarvam  chardcharam  Kesavam  tvam  pratlhi  \  jyotir-bhutah  paramo  'sail 
purastat  praktisate  yat  prabhayd  visva-riipah  \  apah  srishtid  sana- 
bhututma-yonih  purd  'karot  sarvam  evdtha  visvam  ityddi  \ 

"Krishna  created  the  earth,  the  air,  and  the  sky;  from  Krishna's 
body  the  earth  was  produced.  He  is  the  ancient  boar  of  fearful  strength  ; 
he  created  the  mountains  and  the  regions.  Beneath  him  are  the 
atmosphere  and  the  heaven,  the  four  regions,  and  the  four  intermediate 
regions  :  and  [from  him]  this  creation  sprang  forth :  he  formed  this 
ancient  universe.  In  his  navel  a  lotus  grew  up,  where. he  hinise}f  [in 
the  form  of  Brahma]  was  btfrn  of  boundless  power.  By  him  the 
dreadful  darkness  was  pierced,  that  threatening  ocean  which  abides.  f  . 
7388.  Becoming  Vayu,  he(dissipates  this  universe;  becoming  Fire,  he 
burns  it,  universal  in  his  forms;  becoming  Water,  he  drowns  all 
things;  becoming  Brahma,  he  creates  all  the  hosts  [of  beings].  He  is 


MEETING  OF  KRISHNA  WITH  THE  MUNI  UTTANGA.        275 

whatever  is  to  be  known,  and  he  makes  known  whatever  is  to  be 
known  :  he  is  the  rule  for  performance,  and  he  who  exists  in  that 
which  is  to  be  performed.  Believe  that  Kesava  [abides]  in  righteous- 
ness, in  the  Veda,  in  strength, "and  that  he  is  the  whole  world, 
movable  and  immovable.  Since  he,. the  supreme,  being  by  nature 
luminous,  shines  from  the  beginning,  in  ever;;  form  of  splendour,  this 
soul  and  source  of*  all  beings,  having  created  the  waters^brmed  of  old 
this  entire  universe."  Krishna  then  (vv.  7402  ff.)  proceeds  to  set 
forth  the  benefits  of  reverence  to  Brahmans,  who  he  says  (7412  f.) 
could  reduce  this  world  to  ashes,  and  create  new  ones,  and  rulers  of 
worlds,  (Ihasma  kuryur  jagad  idam  kruddhah  pratyaksha-darsinah  \ 
anydn  api  srijeyus  cha  lokdn  lokescardms  'tatJia]  and  illustrates  his 
opinion  of  their  importance  by  the  results  of  his  own  experience  regard- 
ing Durvasas  (see  above,  p.  196).  He  afterwards  goes  on,  in  the  passage 
which  I  have  already  cited  in  pp.  197  ff.,  to  return  the  compliment  paid 
to  him  by  Mahadeva,  by  celebrating  the  greatness  of  that  deity ;  and 
in  the  course  of  his  description  he  makes  nearly  as  explicit  an  avowal 
of  the  supreme  divinity  of  the  other  god,  as  the  latter  has  made  in 
regard  to  him  in  the  text  (Anusasana-parvan,  6806  ff.)  which  has  just 
been  adduced  in  p.  273  f. 

In  the  Asvamedhika-parvan  it  is  related,  vv.  1536  ff.,  that  when 
Krishna  had  left  the  city  of  the  Pandus,  and  was  journeying  to 
Dvaraka,  he  fell  in  with  the  muni  Ifttanga,  who  asked  him  whether 
he  had  reconciled  the  Kurus  and  Pandas  with  one  another.  Krishna 
replied  (1559)  that  he  had  made  the  attempt  to  do  so,  but  without 
success,  and  that  the  Kurus  had  perished  in  consequence.  On  hearing 
this  Uttanga  becomas  greatly  incensed,  and  threatens  to  curse  Krishna 
because  he  had  not  rescued  the  Kurus,  although  he  was  perfectly  able 
to  do  so.  To  pacify  the  muni's  wrath,  Krishna  offers  to  explain  the 
circumstances,  and  to  unfold  the  mystery  of  his  own  nature;  which 
he  accordingly  does  in  vv41564ff. : 

Vubuderah  livdcha  \  tamo  rajas  cha  sattvam  cha  viddhi  bhdvdn  mad- 
asrayan  \  tathd  Rudrdn  Vasun  vd  'pi  viddhi  mat-yrabhavdn  dvija  \  mayi 
sar$ani  bhuldni  sarva-bhuteshu  chdpy  aham  \  sthitah  ityddi  |  .  .  .  . 
1567.  Sad  asachchaiva  yat  prdhtir  avyaktam  tfyaktam  eva  cha  \  ahharam 
cha  ksharanchaiva  sarvam  etad  mad-dtmakam  \  'ye  chdsfumeshu  vai  dharmds 
chaturdha  vidittih  mune  \  vaidikani  chd  sarvdni  viddhi  sarvam  mad-utma- 


276  KRISHNA  DECLAHES  HIS  OWN  NATURE. 

Icam  |  asachcha  sad-asachchaiva  yad  visvani  sad-asat-param  \  mattah 
parataram  ndsti  deva-devdt  sandtanat  \  ftmkdra-pramukhdn  veddn  viddhi 
mam  tvam  Bhrigudvaha  \  yupam  somam  charum  homam  tridasdpydyanam 
makhe  \  hotdram  api  havyamchq  viddh*  mam  Bhrigu-nandana  \  adhvaryuh 
kalpakasydpi  havih  parama-samskritam  \  udgdtd  chdpi  mam  stauti  glta- 
ghoshair  mahddhvare  \  wrdyaschitteshu  mam  brahman  sdnti-mangala- 
vdchakdh  \  stmanti  visvakarmdnam  satatam  dvija-sattdma  \  mama  viddhi 
sutam  dharmam  agrajam  dvija-sattama  \  mdnasam  dayitam  vipra  sarva- 
Ihuta-daydtmaJcam  \  tatrdham  vartamdnaischa  nirvrittaischaiva  mdna- 
vaih  |  bahvlh  saihsaramdno  vai  yonir  vartdmi  satta'ma  \  dharma-samraksh- 
andrthdya  dharma-samsthdpandya  cha,  \  tais  tair  vesuis  cha  rupais  clia 
trishu  lokeshu  Bhdrgava  \  aham  Vishnur  aham  Brahma  S'alcro  'tha,  pra- 
Ihavdvyayah  (dpyayah  .^)  27°  |  Ihuta-grdmasya  sarvasya  srashtd  samhdrah 
eva  cha  \  adharme  vartamdndndm  sarveshdm  aham  achynitah  \  dharmasya 
setum  badhndmi  chalite  chalite  yuge  \  ids  tdh  yoriih  pravisytiham  prajdndm 
hitakdmyayd  \  yadd  tv  aham  deta-yonau  vartdmi  Bhrigu-nandana  \  tadd 
'ham  deva-vat  sarvam  dchardmi  na  samsayah  |  ....  1582.  Mdmtshye 
vartamdne  tu  kripanam  ydchitdh  mayd  \  na  cha  te  jdta-sammohdh  vacho 
'grihnanta  mohitdh  \  bhayancha  mahad  uddisya  trdsitdh  Kuravo  mayd  \ 
kruddhena  bhutvd  cha  punar  yathdvad  anudarsitdh  \  te  'dharmeneha 
samyuktdh  parltdh  kdla-dharmand  \  dharmena  nihatdh  yuddhe  gatdh 
svargam  na  samsayah  |  .  .  .  .  Uttangah  uvdcha  \  alhijdndmi  jagatah 
kartdram  tvdm  Jandrdana  \ 

"Know  that  the  qualities  of  darkness  (tamas\  passion  (rajas'),  and 
goodness  (sattva}  have  their  abode  in  me.  Know  also  that  both  the 
Rudras  and  Yasus  are  sprung  from  me.  All  beings  reside  in  me,  and 

I  in  all  beings,  etc 1567  ff.  :    That  which  men  call  entity 

and  non-entity,  the  unmanifested  and  the  manifested,  the  undecaying 
and  the  decaying, — all  this  consists  of  my  essence.  And  know,  0 
muni,  that  the  fourfold  duties  which  are  recognized  as  belonging  to  the 
[four]  conditions  of  life,  as  well  as  all  the  Yedic  [ordinances],  partake 
of  my  essence.  As  regards  non-entity,  and  that  which  is  both  jntity 
and  non-entity,  and  that  which  transcends  both  entity  and  non-entity, 
— know  that  [of  all  this]  there  is  nothing  which  transcends  me,  fhe 
eternal  god  of  gods.  Knott',  descendant  of  Bhrigu,  that  I  am  the  Yedas 
which  are  introducsd  by  tne  omkara,  [that  I  am],  the  sacrificial  post, 

270  See  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon,  under  apyaya  ;  and  TJdyoga-parvan,  v.  2569. 


FUTURE  BLISS  OF  BRAVE  WARRIORS  SLAIN  IN  BATTLE.     277 

i 

the  soma,  the  charu,  the  homa,  which  satiates  the  immortals,  tridasa- 
pyayana  in  the  sacrifice.  K.JIOW  that  I  am  both  the  hotri  (priest), 
and  the  havya  (oblation).  [I  am]  also  the  adhvaryu  of  the  ceremony, 
and  the  highly  purified  butter.  The  udgatri  celebrates  me  with  sounds 
of  hymns  at  the  great  sacrifice.  And  at  the  rites  of  atonement,  the 
priests  who  utter  propitiatory  and  auspicious  texts  continually,  T) 
excellent  Brahma*n,  praise  me,  the  architect  of  all.  Know  that  Dharma 
(Righteousness)  is  my  beloved  first-born  mental  son,  who'se  nature  is  to 
have  compassion  on  all  creatures.  There  I  exist  among  men,  boih 
present  and  past,  passing  through  many  varieties  of  mundane  existence, 
in  different  disguises  and  forms,  in  the  three  worlds,  *for  the  preserva- 
tion and  establishment  of  righteousness.  I  am  Vishnu,  Brahma,  Indra, 
and  the  source  as  well  as  destruction. [of  things],  the  creator  and  the 
annihilator  of  the  whole  aggregate  of  existences.  When  all  men  live 
in  unrighteousness,  I,  the  unfailing,  build  up  the  bulwark  of  righteous- 
ness, as  the  ages  pass  away,  entering  into  various  wombs,  from  a  desire 
to  promote  the  good  of  creatures.  "Whenever  I  assume  a  divine  birth, 
I  act  in  every  respect  agreeably  to  my  character  of  a  god."  .  .  .  (He 
adds  that  he  acts  agreeably  to  all  the  other  natures  which  he  assumes.) 
1582.  "But  during  the  existence  of  my  mortal  condition,  though  they 
(the  Kurus)  were  humbly  entreated  by  me,  they,  through  delusion,  were 
not  touched,  and  did  not  listen  to  my  words.  -Though  terrified  by  me, 
when  I  was  incensed,  with  great  alarms,  and  again  fittingly  ad- 
monished, they,  influenced  by  unrighteousness,  and  overcome  by  fate, 
have  been  righteously  slain  in  battle,  and  have  undoubtedly  gone  to 
heaven."271  On  hearing  this  reply  of  Krishna,  the  sage  TJttauga  breaks 
out:  "I  recognize .thee.  Janilrdana,  as  the  creator  of  the  world,"  etc. 
Krishna  then  shows  him  his  divine  form. 

271  See  Mahabharata,  S^nti-parvan,  v.  3655 ff.,  where  Indra  says:  Ahave  tu  hatam 
suram  na  socheta  kathanchana  \  asochyo  hi  hatah  surah  svarga-loke  mahlyate  \  no. 
l»j  annaiii  nodakam  tasya  n<£  snanam  napy  asauchakam  \  hatasya  kartum  ichhanli 
tasya^lokan  srinushva  me  \  varapsarah-sahasrani  suram  ayodhane  hatam  \  tvaramTina 
'bhidhavanti  "mama  bharta  bhaved"  iti  \  ''Let  no  one  ever  lament  a  hero -slain 
in  battle.  A  hero  slain  is  not  to  be  lamented,  for  he^s  exalted  in  heaven.  Men 
d^  not  desire  to  offer  to  him  food  or  water,  or  perform  ablutions,  or  [contract  ?] 
impurity  [on  his  account].  Hear  from  me  the  worlds  to  which  he  goes.  Thousands 
of  beautiful  nymphs  (apsarases)  run  quickly  up  to  the  hero  who  has  been  slain  in 
combat,  saying  to  him,  'be  my  husband.'  "  Professor  Web<?r  refers  to  this  passage, 
Indische  Studien,  i.  398,  note,  and  notices  the  parallel  it  forms  to  similar  represeuta- 


278  CotBAT,  AND  SUBSEQUENT  RECONCILIATION 

VIII.  In  the  preceding  pages,  various  passages  have  been  adduced 
in  which  the  supremacy  of  MahaUeva  a*id  his  identity  with  the  soul 
of  the  universe  have  been  asserted  (pp.  185  1.,  194,  196),  and  other 
texts  have  been  quoted  in  which  [he  same  rank  and  character  are 
assigned  to  Vishnu  (pp.  263  if.).  The  reader  will  likewise  have 
noticed  that  in  some  places  also  (pp.  241,  268),  an  attempt  is  made, 
by  alleging  the  essential  oneness  of  the  two  deities,  to  reconcile  their 
conflicting  claims.272  Another  passage  of  this  description  occurs  in  the 
Harivauisa,  vv.  10660  ff.  It  had  been  related  in  the  preceding  sec- 
tion that  S'iva  had  come  to  the  assistance  of  Bana  and  the  Danavas  in 

tiona  about  Huris  in  the  Goran.  So  also  in  vv.  3591  ff.,  it  is  said:  Abhlto  vikiran 
iatrun  pratigrihya  sarams  tathat\  na  tastnat  tridasah  sreyo  bhuvi  pasyanti  kinchana  \ 
tasya  sastrani  yavanti  tvacham  bhindanti  saihyuge  \  tavatah  so  's'nute  lokan  sarva- 
kama-duho  'kshayan  \  yad  asya  rudhiram  gutrad  ahave  sampravartate  \  saha,  tenaiva 
papena  sarva-papaih  pramuchyate  \  "  The  gods  see  nothing  on  earth  superior  to  the  man 
who,  fearless,  scattering  his  foes,  receives  arrows  in  his  body.  As  many  weapons  as 
pierce  him  in  the  fray,  so  many  worlds  yielding  all  enjoyments  does  he  enjoy.  With 
the  blood  which  flows  from  his  body,  and  through  that  misery  so  endured,  he  is 
freed  from  all  his  sins."  IVfuch  more  follows  in  praise  of  valour  and  reprehension 
of  timidity.  In  vv.  3626  ff.  a  battle  is  compared  to  a  sacrifice,  and  their  corre- 
sponding parts  described.  In  vv.  3666  ff.  we  are  told  that  King  Janaka  showed  his 
warriors  the  shining  heavens,  filled  with  Gandharvas'  daughters,  and  yielding  all 
manner  of  delights,  destined  for  the  courageous  (abhlruna>n  ime  lokah  bhasvanto 
hl<rtta  pasyata  \purndh  gandharva-kanyabhih  sarva-kama-duho  'kshayajf) ;  and  the 
hells  prepared  for  such  as  fled  from  battle.  In  the  same  way  Krishna  says  to  Jara- 
sandha  (Sabha-parvan,  v.  869) :  Ko  hi  janann  abhijanam  atmavan  kshatriyo  nripah\ 
navisat  svargam  atulam  rananantaram  avyayam  \  svargam  hy  eva  samasthaya  rana- 
yajneshu  d~>kshitah  \  jayanti  kshatriyuh  lokams  tad  viddhi  manujarshabha  \  svarga- 
yonir  mahad  brahma  svarga-yonir  mcfhad  yasah  \,svarga-yonis  tapo  yuddhe  yiritynh 
«o  'vyabhicharavan  j  "  For  what  Kshatriya  king,  who  was  wise,  and  appreciated  his 
own  noble  birth,  has  not,  after  the  battle,  entered  into  an  incomparable  and  un- 
decaying  paradise  ?  Know,  chief  of  men,  that  Kshatriyas,  consecrated  in  tfye  sacrifice 
of  battle,  attain  to  paradise  and  conquer  the  worlds.  Great  scriptural  knowledge  is 
the  source  of  paradise,  .and  so  is  great  renown  ;  austerity  (tapas)  in  fight,  too,  is  the 
source  of  paradise ;  such  a  death  never  fails  of  its  reward."  See  also  R.V.  x.  154,  3, 
quoted  in  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  310. 

272  Compare  Vayu  Purana,  as  quoted  in  Aufrecht's  Catalogue,  p.  56,  col.  2  (partly 
referred  to  above,  p.  267,  note) ;"  Varahap.,  ibid.,  p.  -*)8,  col.  2,  note  2,  and  p.  59, 
col.  2;  Devibhag.,  ibid.,  p.  81«;  also  Padmap.,  ibid.,  p.  16,  note  1.  The  las>j  text 
is  as  follows :  Krishna  speaks :  S'aivcih  Sauras  cha  Ganesah  Vaishnavah  S'akti- 
pujakah  \  mam  eva  prapnwntlha  sarvapah  sagaram  yatha  \  eko  hi  panchndha  jatah 
svarupair  namnbhih  kila\  Devadatto  yatha  kaschit  putrady-ahvana-namabhih  \  "The 
worshippers  of  S'iva,  Sura  (the  Sun),  Ganes'a,  Vishnu  and  S'akti,  come  to  me,  as  all 
streams  flow  to  the  ocean.  For,  though  one,  I  am  born  with  fivefold  forms  and 
names,  just  as  the  man°Devadatta  wlien  called  [is  addressed]  by  the  appellations  of 
'son,'  etc." 


OP  KRISHNA  AND  S'lVA.  279 

i 

• 

their  conflict  with  Krishna  (v.  10587  f.),  when  a  terrible  combat  ensues 
between  the  latter  and  8'iva.,  whicfi  causes  the  earth  to  tremble,  and 
throws  the  whole  universe  into  disorder  (v.  10601  f.).  S'iva  is  at 
length  paralyzed  by  a  weapon  of  Jus  adversary  called  jrimbhana,  which 
causes  him  to  yawn  incessantly  (v.  10632  f.).  The  earth  is  distressed 
(v.  10641  ff.)  and  appeals  to  Brahma  for  assistance.  Brahma  (v.  10647) 
remonstrates  wifti  S'iva  against  his  conflict  with  Krishna,  who,  he  says, 
is  in  reality  one  with'  himself.  S'iva  perceiving  by  yoga  (mental  union, 
with  the  object  contemplated)  the  truth  of  what  Brahma  had  stated, 
says  to  Brahma  that  he  will  no  longer  fight  against  Krishna,  and  the 
two  combatants  embrace  (v.  10648  ff.).  Brahma  thft  says  to  the  sage 
Markandeya  (v.  10656  ff.)  that  he  had  formerly,  in  a  dream,  seen  the 
two  deities  on  the  northern  side  of  the  mountain  Mandara,  each  invested 
with  the  emblems  of  the  other,  Hara  (S'iva)  in  the  form  of  Hari  . 
(Vishnu)  with  the  shell,  discus,  and  club,  clothed  in  yellow  vestments 
and  mounted  on  Garuda,  and  Hari  in  the  form  of  Hara,  bearing  the 
trident  and  axe,  clad  in  a  tiger's  skin,  and  mounted  on  a  bull ;  and  he 
asks  the  sage  Markandeya  to  explain  this  phenomenon  which  had 
occasioned  him  great  astonishment.  Markandeya  replies  (vv.  10660  ff.) : 
Mdrkandeyah  uvdcha \  S'ivdya  Vishnu-rupdya  Vishnave  S'iva-rupine™\ 
athdntaram  napasydmi  tena  te  disatah2H  iivam  \  an-ddi-madhya-nidhanam 
etad  aksharam  avyayam  \  tad  eva  te  pratakshydmi  rupam  Hari-Hardt- 
makam  \  yo  vai  Vishnuh  sa  vai  Rudro  yo  Rudrah  sa  Pitdmahah  \  ekd 
murtis  trayo  devdh  Rudra-  Vishnu- Pitdmahah  \  varaddh  loka-kartdro 
loka*dthdh  svayambhuvah  \  ardha-ndrlsvards  te  tu  vratam  tlvram  samd- 
sritdh  \  yathd  jale  jalam  kshiptam  jalam  eva  tu  tad  bhavet  \  Rudrarh 
Vishnvh  pravishta$  tu  tathd  Rudramayo  bhavet  \  agnim  agnih  pravishtas 
tu  agnir  eva  yathd  bhavet  \  tathd  Vishnum  pravishtas  tu  Rudro  Vishnu- 
mayo  bhavet  \  Rudram  agnimayam  vidydd  Vishnuh  somdtmakah  smrfyah  \ 
agriishomdtmaham  chaiva  jagat  sthdvara-jangamam  \  Jcartdrau  chdpa- 
hartdrau  sthdvarasya  charasya  cha  \  jagalah  subha-kartdrau  prabhu 

'  % 

Vi&nu-Mahesvarau  \    Jcartri-karana-kartdrau    Tcartri-kdrana-JcdraJcau  \  * 
bhuta-bhavya-bhavau  devau  Ndrdyana-Mahesvarau  \  etau  tau  cha  pra- 
^aktdrdv  etau  tau  cha  prabhdmayau  \  jagatah  pdlakdv  etdv  etau  srishti- 
karau  smritau  \  ete  chaiva  pravarshanti  blyinti  vdnti  srijanti  cha  \  etat 

273  See  tlie  same  words  above,  p.  231.    •  * 

274  The  MS.  in  the  library  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  reads  darsitah. 


280  BKAHMA;  VISHNU,.  SIVA,  THREE  GODS,  ONE  SUBSTANCE. 

• 

parataram  guhyam  Icathitam  te  Pitamaha  \  yai  chainam  pathate  nityam 
ya£  chainam  srinuydd  narah  \  prdpnoti  payamam  sthdnam  Rudra-  Vishnu- 
prasdda-jam  \  devau  Hari-Harau  stoshye  Brahniand  saha  sangatau  \  etau 
cha paramau  devaujagatah  prabhavdpuayau  \  Rudrasya  paramo  Vishnur 
Vishnoscha  paramah  S'ivah  \  ekah  eva  dvidhd-bhuto  lolce  charati  nityasah  \ 
na  vina  S'anJcaram  Vishnur  na  vind  Kesavam  S'ivah  \  tasmdd  ekatvam 
dydtau  Hudropendrau  tu  tau  purd  \  ityddi. 

<l  When  thou  showest  me  this  auspicious  "[vision],  I  perceive 
thereby  no  difference  between  S'iva  who  exists  in  the  form  of  Vishnu, 
and  Vishnu  who  exists  in  the  form  of  S'iva.  I  shall  declare  to  thee 
that  form  compo&d  of  Hari  and  Hara  (Vishnu  and  Mahadeva)  com- 
bined, which  is  without  beginning,  or  middle,  or  end,  imperishable, 
undecaying.  He  who  is  Vishnu  is  Rudra ;  he  who  is  Rudra  is  Pita- 
maha (Brahma) :  the  substance  (murti)  is  one,  the  gods  are  three, 
Rudra,  Vishnu,  and  Pitamaha.  Bestowers  of  boons,  creators  of  the 
world,  sovereigns  of  the  world,  self-existent,  they  are  the  half-female 
lords,  and  have  performed  austere  rites.  Just  as  water  thrown  into 
water  can  be  nothing  else  than  water,  so  Vishnu  entering  into  Rudra 
must  possess  the  nature  of  Rudra.  And  just  as  fire  entering  into  fire 
can  be  nothing  else  but  fire,  so  Rudra  entering  into  Vishnu  must 
possess  the  nature  of  Vishnu.  Let  Rudra  be  understood  to  possess  the 
nature  of  Agni ;  Vishnu  is  declared  to  possess  the  nature  of  Soma 
(the  Moon) ;  and  the  world,  movable  and  immovable,  possesses  the 
nature  of  Agni  and  Soma.275  The  lords,  Vishnu  and  Mahesvara,  are 
the  makers  and  destroyers  of  things  movable  and  immovable^  and 
the  benefactors  of  the  world.  The  gods  Narayana  and  Mahesvara 
are  the  [first]  makers  of  the  cause,  and  of  [the  secondary]  »maker, 
the  [first]  causers  of  the  cause,  and  of  the  [secondary]  makers, 
existing  in  the  past,  future,  and  present.  And  these  two  are  the 
revealers,  they  possess  a  luminous  essence,  they  are  declared  to  be  the 
preservers  of  the  world,  and  the  creators.  They  rain,  they  shine,  they 
blow,  and  they  create.  This  which  I  have  told  thee,  Pitamaha,  isithe 
highest  mystery.  The  man  who  continually  repeats  it,  and  hears  it, 
obtains  the  highest  abocfe,  granted  by  the  grace  of  Rudra  and  Vishnu, 
I  shall  laud  the  gods  Hari. and  Hara,  associated  with  Brahma;  and 
these  two  are  the  supreme  deities,  the  originators  and  destroyers  of  the 
275  See  above,  pp.  204  and  225. 


DIFFERENT  REPRESENTATIONS  OF  KRISHNA.  281 

i 

world.  Vishnu,  the  highest  [manifestation]  of  Rudra,  and  S'iva,  the 
highest  [manifestation]  of  Vishnu*, — this  [god]  one  only,  though 
divided  into  twain,  moves  continually  in  the  world.  Vishnu  does  not 
[exist]  without  S'ankara,  nor  S'i^a  without  Kesava ;  hence  these  two, 
Eudra  and  TJpendra  (Vishnu),  have  formerly  attained  to  oneness,"  etc. 

Then  follows  a  hymn  to  the  double  deity. 

The  various  representations  of  Krishna  given  in  the  different  sets 
of  passages  above  cited 'possess  a  certain  interest  in  themselves,  even 
independently  of  the  light  which  they  may  be  considered  to  throw  on 
the  process  by  which  his  deification  was  effected.  Among  the  texts 
adduced  from  the  Mahabharata  there  are  some  (see* pp.  185  ff.)  in 
which  he  is  distinctly  subordinated  to  Mabadeva,  of  whom  he  is  ex- 
hibited as  a  worshipper,  and  from  whom,  as  well  as  from  his  wife  Uma, 
he  is  stated  to  have  received  a  variety  of  boons.  Even  in  these  passages, 
however,  a  superhuman  character  is  ascribed  to  Krishna. 

A  second  class  of  texts  has  been  brought-  forward  in  pp.  205  ff.,  in 
which  his  superiority  is  represented  to  have  be'en  denied  by  S'isupala, 
Duryoclhana,  Karna,  and  S'alya.  Of  course  we  are  not  to  imagine  that 
any  claim  to  a  superhuman  character  was  ever  advanced  on  behalf  of 
the  Yadava  hero  in  his  lifetime,  either  by  himself  or  his  friends.  These 
narrative  passages,  therefore,  in  which  his  divine  dignity  is  denied  by 
his  enemies,  and  asserted  by  his  partisans,  as  well  as  vindicated  by  the 
miraculous  exploits  which  are  attributed  to  him,  are  nothing  more  than 
poetical  fictions  (possibly  of  a  polemicaHmport)  put  forward  at  a  period 
whenlfis  godhead  had  come  to  be  recognized  by  the  Vaishnavas,  though 
perhaps  doubted  or  disputed  by  other  sects.  Such  a  resistance  to  the 
pretensions  set  up  0,11  Krishna's  behalf  may  be  indicated  in  the  verses  I 
have  quoted  in  p.  237  f.,  where  all  who  regard  him  as  a  mere  man  are 
stigmatized  as  being  under  the  dominion  of  the  quality  of  darkness.. 

In  the  third  class  of  passages,   quoted  in  pp.  243  ff.,  where  the 

achievements  of  Krishna  are  described  with  a  supernatural  colouring, 

~  *  * 

it  sesms  not  unreasonable  to  recognize  a  basis  of  simpler  legend  (if  not 

of  actual  history)276  underlying  the  miraculous  narrative,  and  to  trace 
a. reference  to  a  variety  of  warlike  adventures  in  which  the  Yadava 
chief  contended  as  a  mere  man  with  the  warriors  of  other  tribes.  The 
supernatural  powers  which  are  here  ascribed  to  bjm  are  not  in  their 
276  See  Lassen's  Indian  Antiquities,  vol.  i.,  p.  615;  in  second  ed.,  p.  762. 


282     REMARKS  ON  SOME  OF  THE  PRECEDING  QUOTATIONS. 

character  essentially  different  from  those  which  are  attributed  to  his 
enemies,  who,  it  will  be  observed,  are,  in  like  manner  represented  as 
endowed  with  superhuman  faculties ;  while  Krishna  himself  is  in 
various  places  described  as  being  indebted  to  the  gods  for  his  weapons, 
or  for  other  advantages  (see  the  Drona-parvan,  v.  402,  and  the  Adi- 
parvan,  v.  8196,  quoted  or  referred  to  in  pp.  244  ff.,  and  the  Udyoga- 
parvan,  quoted  in  p.  247). 

The  identification  of  Arjuna  and  Krishna  with  the  saints  Nara  and 
Narayana  (pp.  228  ff.)277  is  curious;  but  I  am  unable  to  conjecture 
whether  it  may  have  originated  in  a  previously  existing  legend  respect- 
ing two  rishis  OT  that  name  (the  one  of  whom,  as  bearing  the  same 
name  which  was  ultimately  applied  to  Vishnu  and  Krishna,  was,  in 
the  fanciful  spirit  of  Indian  mythology,  and  in  consonance  with  the 
tenet  of  metempsychosis,  declared  to  have  been  an  earlier  manifestation 
of  Krishna, — when  Arjuna,  the  bosom  friend  of  the  latter,  would 
naturally  be  regarded  as  cthe  same  with  Nara,  the  inseparable  com- 
panion of  Narayana) ;  or  whether  the  whole  legend  was  originally 
invented  for  the  glorification  of  Krishna  and  Arjuna. 

In  the  passages  above  adverted  to,  where  Krishna  is  subordinated 
to  Mahadeva,  the  latter  is  identified  with  the .  supreme  Deity  (see 
pp.  185  ff.,  194).  In  another  set  of  texts,  however  (pp.  230,  264  ff.), 
Krishna,  as  Vishnu,  is  asserted  to  be  one  with  the  supreme  God,278 
while  Mahadeva  is  represented  as  springing  from,  and  dependent 
on,  Vishnu.  But  here  and  elsewhere,  as  we  have  already  seen,  an 
attempt  is  made  to  reconcile  the  claims  of  the  two  rival  deraes  by 
affirming  their  identity  (pp.  241,  268).  How  are  we  to  explain 
this  circumstance,  that  in  one  place  Mahadeva -is  extolled  at  the 
expense  of  Krishna,  and  that  in  another  place  Krishna  is  exalted 
above  Mahadeva  ?  Must  we  assume  the  one  set  of  passages  to  be  older 


277  In  Bb'htlingk  and  Roth's  Dictionary  the  word  Narayana  is  explained  as  the 
"  son  of  man,"  and  as  a  patronymic  of  the  personified  Purusha,  the  risbi  ,pf  the 
Puru?ha-sukta  (R.V.,  x.  90).    Nara  is  in  the  same  work  interpreted  as  the  "pri- 
meval man." 

278  Even  in  the  parts  of  the  Vishnu  Purana  and  Mahahharata  (see  pp.  49  and 
253  ff.),  where  Krishna  is  represented  as  a  partial  incarnation  of  the  godhead,  there 
does  not  appear  to  be  any  intention  to  question  the  plenitude  of  his  divine  nature. 
Compare  the  27th  withrthe  34th  and  following  verses  of  the  33rd  section  of  the  10th 
Book  of  the  Bhagavata  Purana,  quoted  in  p.  49. 


WIDE  DIFFUSION  OF  THE  WORSHIP  OF  MAHADEVA.       283 

i 

than  the  other,  or  are  we  to  suppose  them  to  be  contemporaneous,  or 
nearly  contemporaneous,  and  tp  havg  been  inserted  in  the  Mahabharata 
by  different  classes  of  sectaries  in  order  to  give  a  sort  of  catholicity  to 
the  great  epic,  by  making  it  a  storehouse  in  which  the  votaries  of  all  the 
different  deities  might  find  something  to  satisfy  their  various  tendencies  ? 
Though  deeper  study  might  lead  to  a  different  conclusion,  it  does  not, 
I  think,  result  from  a  superficial  comparison  of  the  principal  passages 
which  I  have  quoted 'relative  to  Mahadeva,  with  those  which  have  re- 
ference to  Krishna,  that  the  one  class  bears  in  its  general  complexion  the 
impress  of  any  greater  antiquity  than  the  other.  Both,  in  their  present 
form  at  least,  appear  to  belong  to  the  same  age,  as  w%  find  in  both  the 
same  tendency  to  identify  the  god  who  is  the  object  of  adoration  with 
the  supreme  Soul.  The  passages  relating  to  both  gods,  as  they  now 
stand,  would  therefore  seem  to  be  the  products  of  a  sectarian  spirit,  and 
to  have  been  introduced  into  the  poem  by  the  S'aivas  and  Vaishnavas  for 
the  purpose  of  upholding  the  honour  of  their  .respective  deities.  But 
on  the  other  hand  the  mere  fact  that  a  poem  in  which  Krishna  plays 
throughout  so  prominent  a  part,  and  which  in  its  existing  form  is  so 
largely  devoted  to  his  glorification,  should  at  the  same  time  contain 
so  many  passages  which  formally  extol  the  greatness,  and  still  more, 
which  incidentally  refer  to  a  frequent  adoration,  of  the  rival  deity,  by 
the  different  personages,  whether  contemporary  or  of  earlier  date,  who 
are  introduced, — this  fact  is,  I  think,  a  proof  that  the  worship  of  the 
latter  (Mahadeva)  was  widely  diffused,  if  indeed  it  was  not  the  pre- 
domin^nt  worship  in  India,  at  the  period  to  which  the  action  of  the 
poem  is  referred.'  Various  references  to  such  a  worship  of  Mahadeva 
as  I  have  alluded, to  will  be  found  in  the  preceding  pages,  184  ff., 
230  ff.,  and  269  (where  the  abode  of  this  deity  is  described  as  being  in 
the  Himalaya,  p.  230  and  269).  I  shall  quote  some  further  illus- 
trations of  its  prevalence.279 

Lassen  remarks  (i.  780;  i.  992  in  second  ed.),  that  in  the  epic  poems 

*B  » 

the  worship  of  Vishnu  is  but  seldom230  mentioned — a  fact  which  he 

» 

y"9  See  Lassen's  Indian  Antiquities,  vol.  i.,  pp.  561,  571,  610,  711,  716,  741,  and 
781 ;  =pp.  675,  685,  756,  861,  708,  871,  922,  in  second  ed. 

280  Lassen  (i.  679  =p.  828  in  second  ed.)  refers  to  a  passage  of  the  Vana-parvan 
(15283  ff.),  where  Duryodhana,  being  prevented  from  offering  a  rujasuya  sacrifice,  is 
advised  hy  his  priest  to  offer  a  sacrifice  to  Vishnu.  This  story  will  be  quoted  further  on. 


284         TEXTS  REGARDING  THE  WORSHIP  OF  MAHADEVA. 

regards  as  proving  that  at  the  period  when  they  were  composed  no 
special  worship  of  that  deity  had  beer*  extensively  spread,  at  least 
among  the  Brahmans  and  princes,  to  the  description  of  whose  manners 
and  customs  those  works  almost  exclusively  confine  themselves.  On 
the  other  hand  he  quotes  (note  to  i.  561,  1st  ed. ;  i.  675,  2nd  ed.)  the 
following  passages  to  prove  the  wide  extension  of  the  worship  of  Maha- 
deva  in  different  parts  of  India.  In  the  Tlrtha-yatra,  or  section  on 
visiting  places  of  pilgrimage,  in  the  Yana-parVan,  6054  ff.,  it  is  said 
of -the  Yaitaram  river,  in  the  country  of  the  Kalingas : 

Tatas  Tripi&htapafh,  gachchhet  trishu  lokeshu  visrutam  \  tatra  Vaita- 
ram  punyd  nadl  papa-prandsinl  \  tatra  sndtvd  'rchayitvd  cha  S'ulapdnim 
Vrishadhvajam  \  sarva-pdpa-visuddhdtmd  gachheta  paramdm  gatim  \ 
"  Let  him  then  go  to  Tripishtapa,  renowned  in  the  three  worlds. 
There  is  the  holy  river  VaitaranT,  which  destroys  sin.  Having  bathed 
there  and  worshipped  the  god  who  wields  the  trident  and  whose  ensign 
is  the  bull  (Mahadeva),  he  shall  be  purified  from  all  sin,  and  attain  the 
highest  felicity." 

At  vv.  11001  of  the  same  book  (p.  569  of  the  printed  Calcutta  ed.) 
it  is  said  of  the  north  bank  of  the  same  river  : 

Atraiva  Rudro  rdjendra  pasum  ddattavdn  makhe  \  pasum  dddya 
rdjendra  Ihdgo  Jyam  iti  chdbravlt  \  Jirite  pasau  tadd  devds  tarn  uchur 
Bharatarshabha  \  md  para-svam  alhidrogdhdh  ma  dharmdn  sakaldn 
vasih  |  tatah  kalydna-rupdlhir  vdgbhis  te  Budram  astuvan  \  ishtyd 
chainam  tarpayitvd  mdnaydnchakrire  tadd  \  tatah  sa  pasum  utsrijya 
deva-ydnenajagmivdn  \  tatrdnuvamso  Rudrasya  tan  nilodha  Yudhisrnhira  \ 
aydtaydmam  sarvebhyo  bhdgelhyo  Ihdgam  uttamam  \  devdh  sankalpayd- 
mdsur  hhayad  Rudrasya  sdsvatam  \  imam  gdthdm-  atra  gdyann  apah 
sprisati  yo  narah  \  deva-ydno  'sya  panthds  cha  chakshushd  'bhiprakdsate  \ 

"  In  this  very  place,  0  king,  Rudra  seized  a  victim  at  a  sacrifice, 
and  having  done  so,  said,  '  This  is  [my]  portion.'  When  he  had  seized 
the  victim,  the  gods  said  to  him,  'Bo  not  attack  the  property  of 
others  ;  do  not  covet  all  the  offerings.'  They  then  lauded  Rudra  with 
words  of  auspicious  import ;  and  having  satiated  him  with  an  oblation, 
they  paid  him  honour.  He  then  relinquished  the  victim,  and  departed 
by  the  path  of  the  gods.  Referring  to  this  is  the  following  traditional 
verse  of  Rudra,  which  learu  from  me,  Yudhishthira  :  '  Through  dread 
of  Rudra,  the  gods  allotted  to  him  for  ever  the  most  excellent  of  all 


WORSHIP  OF  MAHADEVA  AND  OF  KRISHNA.  285 

i 

portions,  the  ayatayama  (or  fresh  portion).  The  man  who,  here 
reciting  this  verse,  touches  thj  waters,  obtains  a  distinct  vision  of  the 
path  leading  to  the  gods'.' " 

In  the  same  Vana-parvan,  v.  £166,  it  is  said  that  Mahadeva  was 
worshipped  at  Gokarna,  on  the  west  coast  of  the  Dekhan: 

AtJia  Gokarnam  dsddya  trishu  lokeshu  visrutam  \  samudra-madhye 
rdjendra  sarva-loka-namaskritam  \  yatra  Brahmddayo  devah  rishayas  cha 
tapodhandh  \  .  .  .  .  '.  8169  :  Saritah  sdgardh  saildh  updsanta  Umd- 
patim  \  ity adi  \  "  Then  having  reached  Gokarna,  renowned  in  the 
three  worlds,  standing  in  the  sea,  adored  by  all  worlds,  where  Brahma 
and  the  other  gods  and  rishis  rich  in  austerity,"  [various  other  kinds 
of  beings  are  here  enumerated,  Bhutas,  Yakshas,  etc.,  etc.],  "rivers, 
oceans,  and  mountains  worshipped  the  lord  of  TJma  (Mahadeva)." 

The  same  place  is  also  mentioned  in  the  Ramopakhyana  of  the  Vana- 
parvan,  v.  15999  f. : 

Trikutam  samatikramya  Kdlaparvatam  eva  cha  \  dadarsa  makardvdsam 
gamlhlrodam  mahodadhim  \  tarn  atltydtha  Gokarnam  alhyagachhat 
Dasdnanah  \  dayitam  sthdnam  avyagram  S'ulapdner  maJidtmanah  \ 
"Having  passed  Trikuta,  and  the  Black  Mountain,  he  (Havana)  saw 
the  deep  ocean,  the  abode  of  marine  monsters.  Having  crossed  it,  he 
then  approached  Gokarna,  the  beloved  undisturbed  abode  of  the  mighty 
wielder  of  the- trident." 

[The  same  Tirtha-yatra,  however,  from  which  the  passages  preceding 
the  last  are  taken,  contains  the  following  lines  celebrating  Krishna: 

Vana-parvan,  v.  8349  f. — Punyd  Dvdravatl  tatra  yatrdsau  Madhusu- 
danah  \  sdksJidd  devah  purtino  'sau  sa  hi  dharmah  sandtanah  \  ye  cha  veda- 
vido  viprdh  ye  chddtydtma-vidojandh  \  te  vadanti  mahdtmdnam  Srishnam 
dharmam  sandtanam  \  pavitrdndm  hi  Govindah  pavitram  param  uchyate  \ 
punydndm  api  punyo  'saw  mangaldndm  cha  mangalam  \  trailokye  Punda- 
rlkdksho  deva-devah  sandtanah  \  avyaydtmd  vyaydtmd  cha  kshetrajnah 
paramesvarah  \  dste  Harir  lichintydtmd  tatraiva  Madhusudanah  \ 
"  There  is  the  holy  Dvaravati  where  that  Madhusudana  [abides],  that 
manifest,  ancient  god;  for  he  is  the  eternal  righteousness.  Brahmans 
who  know  the  Veda,  and  who  know  the  supreme  spirit,  call  the  mighty 
Krishna  the  eternal  righteousness.  Goviijda  is  called  the  supremely 
pure  among  the  pure,  the  holy  among  the»holy,  th.e  blessed  among  the 
blessed.  In  the  three  worlds  the  lotus-eyed  is  the  eternal  god  of  gods, 


286  MAHADEVA  WORSHIPPED  BY  JAYADEATHA, 

the  undecaying  in  essence,  and  the  decaying,  the  conscious  occupant  of 
the  hody,  the  supreme  lord.  There  the,  inconceivable  Hari,  Madhusu- 
dana,  abides."] 

The  following  passages  supply  som,e  further  instances  of  the  worship 
of  Mahadeva  by  personages  introduced  in  the  poem  : 

Adi-parvan,  v.  7049. — Evam  teshdfh  vilapatdm  vipranam  vividhdh 
girah  \  Arjuno  dhanusho  'bhytise  tasthau  girir  ivdchaldh  \  sa  tad  dhanuh 
parikramya  pradakshinam  athdkarot  \  pranamyu  sirasd  devam  Isdnaih 
varadam  praohum  \  Krishnam  cha  manasd  kritvd  jagrihe  chdrjuno 
dhanuh  \  yat  pdrthivaih  Rukmi- Sunltha-  VaktraiTi  Rddheya-Duryodhana- 
S'alya-S'dlvaih  \  tadd  dhanur-veda-parair  nrisi.lihaih  kritam  na  sajyam 
mahato  'pi  yatnfit  \  tad  Arjunah  ityddi  \  "While  the  Brahmans  thus 
uttered  various  speeches,  Arjuna  stood  firm  as  a  mountain,  trying  the 
bow.  He  then  made  a  circuit  round  it,  bowing  down  in  reverence  to 
the  boon-bestowing  lord  Isana  (Mahadeva) ;  and  having  meditated  on 
Krishna,281  Arjuna  seized  the  bow.  And  that  bow  which  the  lion-like 
kings  llukmin,  Sunitha  (S'isupala),  Yaktra,  Radheya,  Duryodhana, 
S'alya,  and  S'alva,  skilled  in  archery,  could  not  with  great  effort  bend 
[so  as  to  fix  the  bowstring],  Arjuna  bent,  and  hit  the  mark,"  etc.,  etc. 

In  the  Yana-parvan,  vv.  15777,  it  is  related  that  Jayadratha,  after 
being  captured  by  Bhishma  and  released  at  the  request  of  Yudhishthira, 
went  to  worship  Mahadeva  (v.  15801)  : 

Jagdma  rujan  duhkhdrto  •Gangddi-urdya  Bhdrata  \  sa  devam  saranam 
gatvd  virupdksham  Umdpatim  J  tapas  chachara  vipulam  tasya  prlto 
Vrishadhvajah  \  lalim  svayam  pratyagrihndt  prlyamdnas  Trilochanah  \ 
varaih  chdsmai  dadau  devah  sa  jagrdha  cha  tach  chhrinu  \  "  Samastdn 
sarathdn  panchajayeyaih  yudhi  Pundavan"  \  iti  rdju^bravld  devam  neti 
devas  tarn  abravlt  \  ajayydms  chupy  abadhyams  cha  varayishyasi  tan 
yudhi  |  rite  'rjunam  mahdldhufii  Naram  ndma  suresvaram  \  Vaddrydm 
tapta-tapasam  Ndrdyana-sahCtyakam  \  ajitam  sarva-lokdndm  devair  api 
durdsadam  \  mayd  dattam  pdsupatam  divyam  apratimam  saram  \  avdpa 
lokapdlebhyo  vajrddln  sa  mahdsardn  \  deva-devo  hy  anantdttnd  Visknuh 
sura-guruh  praWmh  \  pradhdna-purusho  'vyaktah  visvdtmd  visca-murti- 
mdn  |  yugdntakdle  samprdpte  kdlugnir  dahate  jagat  \  sa-parvatdrnavor 
dvlpam  sa-saila-vana-kunanaya,  \ 

291  Lassen  (Indian  Antiquities,  vol.  i.,  p.  646,  first  ed. ;  p.  794,  second  ed.)  regards 
this  reference  to  Krishna  as  a  later  interpolation  in  the  older  story. 


PAEAS'URAMA,  AND  JARASANDHA.  287 

• 

"  He  went,  0  king,  distressed  with  grief,  to  Gangadvara  (Haridvara). 
There,  resorting  to  the  distorted-ey&l  lord  of  Uma  as  his  refuge,  he 
practised  long  austerities.  Gratified  with  this,  the  three-eyed  god, 
whose  ensign  is  a  bull,  himself  received  his  oblation,  and  offered  him  a 
boon,  which  he  accepted.  Hear  how  [he  did  so].  The  king  (Jaya- 
dratha)  said  to  the  god,  '  May  I"  vanquish  all  the  five  PandavaS  with 
their  chariots  in  •battle.'  The  god  said,  '  No ;  thou  shalt  withstand 
them  all,  though  theyare  unconquerable  and  not  to  be  slain,  excepting 
only  the  great-armed  Arjuna,  who  is  called  Kara,  the  lord  of  the  gods, 
who  performed  austerity  at  Badari,  attended  by  Narayana,  who  is 
invincible  by  all  the  worlds,  and  irresistible  even  by  the  gods.  He 
obtained  the  Pasupata,  a  divine,  incomparable  missile,  given  by  me, 
and  thunderbolts  and  other  great  weapons  from  the  guardians  of  the 
worlds.  For  the  infinite  Vishnu,  the  god  of  gods,  the  chief  of  the  deities, 
the  chief  spirit  (Purusha),  the  undiscernible,  the  soul  of  all  things,  the 
universal- formed,  at  the  end  of  the  yuga  burns  up  the. world,  with  its 
mountains,  oceans,  continents,  rocks  and  forests."  Mahadeva  then  goes 
on  to  relate  how  the  destruction  and  the  restoration  of  the  world  is 
effected  by  Vishnu,  and  describes  his  various  incarnations.  He  con- 
cludes by  "saying  that  Arjuna  who  was  aided  by  him  could  not  be 
conquered  even  by  the  gods.  In  this  legend  it  will  be  observed  that 
the  warrior  goes  to  worship  Mahadeva,  and  not  Vishnu,  though  the 
latter  is  represented  as  being  magnified  by  the  rival  deity.  But  this 
part  of  the  story  may  be  interpolated.  » 

In  the  Santi-parvan  also  (vv.  I748f.),  it  is  related  how  Parasurama 
worshipped  Mahadeva  on  the  mountain  Gandhamadana,  and  obtained 
his  celebrated  axe,  by  which  he  became  renowned  in  the  world  (tosJia- 
yitvd  Mahadevam  parvate  Gandhamddane  \  astruni  varayamasa  parasum 
chati-tejasam  \  sa  tenukuntha-dharena  jvalitanala-varchasd  \  kuthdrend- 
prameyena  lokeshv  apratimo  'Ihavaf).  Then  follows  the  story  of 
Kartavlrya  (see  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  450,  478). 

In ,  the  following  passage,  Jarasandha  is  introduced  as  a  zealous 
votary  of  Mahadeva.  Yudhishthira  had  been  purposing  to  celebrate  a 
Rajasuya  sacrifice,  which  presupposed  that  he  was  the  most  powerful 
of  contemporary  monarchs;  but  Krishna  in,  the  following  words  tells 
him  that  he  cannot  do  so  while  Jarasandha  lives  : 

Sabha-parvan,  v.  626. — No,  tu  sakyam  Jardsandhejlvamune  mahalale  \ 


288  JAKASANDHA  WISHES  TO  SACRIFICE  CAPTIVES  TO  MAHADEVA. 

rdjasuyam  tuaya  'vaptum  eshd  rtijan  matir  mama,  \  tena  ruddhdh,  hi 
rdjdnah  sarve  jitvd  Girivraje  \  kandare  parvatendrasya  simheneva  mahd- 
dvipdh  |  sa  hi  rdjd  Jardsandho  yiyakshur  vasiidhddhipaih  \  Mahddevatn 
mahdtmdnam  Vmdpatim  arindama  \  drddhya  tapasogrena  nirjitds  tena 
pdrthivdh  |  pratijndyds  cha  pdrarn  sa  gatah  pdrthiva-sattamah  \  sa  hi 
nirjitya  nirjitya  pdrthivdn  pritandgatdn  \  puram  driiya  baddhvd  cha 
chakdra  purusha-vrajam  \  vayam  chaiva  mahdrdja  Jardsandha-bhaydt 
tadd  |  Mathurdm  samparityajya  gatdh  DvdravatlM  purim  \ 

.  "But  whilst  the  powerful  Jarasandha  lives,  a  Rajasuya  sacrifice 
cannot  be  attained  by  thee;  such,  king,  is  my  opinion.  For  all  the 
kings  have  been  conquered,  and  are  imprisoned  by  him  in  Gririvraja,  as 
elephants  by  a  lion  in  a  cave  of  a  great  mountain.  For  this  monarch 
Jarasandha  desired  to  sacrifice  to  the  glorious  Mahadeva,  the  lord  of 
Uma,  with  these  kings  [as  victims]  ;  and  they  were  conquered  by  him 
after  he  had  worshipped  the  god  with  dreadful  austerities.  And  this 
eminent  prince  has  attained  to  the  accomplishment  of  his-  design. 
For  after  repeatedly  conquering  the  princes  who  had  come  against 
him  in  battle,  he  has  brought  them  to  his  capital,  confined  them,  and 
made  them  a  human  herd.  And  we  too,"  (confesses  Krishna)  "from 
dread  of  Jarasandha,  deserted  Mathura,  and  went  to  the  city  of 
Dvaravati." 

Krishna  returns,  a  little  farther  <Jh,  to  Jarasandha's  cruelty  to  the  kings: 
•Sabha-parvan,  v.  653. — Ratna-lhdjo  hi  rdjdno  Jardsandharn  updsate  \ 
na  cha  tushyati  tendpi  bdlydd  anayam  dsthitah  \  murdhdlhishiktaih 
nripatim  pradhdna-purusho  baldt  \  ddatte  na  cha  no  drishto  'bhdgah 
purushaiah  kvachit  \  evam  sarv&n  vase  chakre  Jardsandhah  satdvardn  \  tarn 
durbala-paro  rdjd  katham  Pdrtha  upaishyati  \  prokshitdndm  pramrish- 
tdndmKZ  rajndm  Pasupater  grille  \  pasundm  ivd  kd prltir  jlvite  Bharat- 
arshabha  \  "For  jewelled  kings  wait  upon  Jarasandha;  and  yet  he  is 
not  contented  even  with  that,  having  through  folly  become  imprudent. 
A  prince  seizes  by  force  a  consecrated  king,  and  we  do  not  see  that 
he  has  failed  to  master  any  mortal  anywhere.283  In  this  manner 

292  The  commentator's  remark  on  this  is  as  follows :  Pramrishtanam  \  Rudra-daiv- 
atyo  'yam  iti  pratyekam  abhimrishtanam  \ 

233  These  words  are  explained  by  the  commentator  in  the  above  sense :  Jarasandhena 
abhagah  asv'tkritah  \purushatah  murdhabhishikteshu purusheshu  \  tena  sarve  vaslk- 
ritah  ity  arthah  \  "  Ahhagah  means  '  unappropriated '  by  Jarasandha.  Punishatah 
means  'among  anointed  kings.'  The  sense  is,  that  '  all  have  been  subdued  by  him.'  " 


KRISHNA  REBUKES  JARASANDHA.  289 

i 

Jarasandha  has  reduced  to  subjection  in  all  at  least  a  hundred  persons ; 
how,  then,  can  a  feeble  prince  approach  him  ?  What  pleasure  can 
those  princes  have  in  existende,  when  they  have  been  sprinkled  for 
slaughter  and  devoted  as  victims  like  beasts  in  the  temple  of  Pasupati 
(Mahadeva)?" 

Krishna  afterwards  proceeds  to  Jarasandha's  capital  with  Bhlma  and 
Arjuna.  with  the  .view  of  slaying  their  enemy*  They  are  admitted  to 
his  palace  in  the  disguise  of  Brahmans,  and  after  some  conversation, 
Krishna  says  to  Jarasandha  :  • 

Sabha-parvan,  vv.  861  ff. — Tvayd  chopahritdh  rdjan  hhatriydh  lolia- 
vdsinah  \  tad  dgah  Jcruram  utpddya  manyase  kirn  andgasam  \  raja  rdjnah 
Jcatham  stidhun  himsydd  nripati-sattama  \  yqd  rdjnah  sannigrihya  tvam 
Budrdyopajihlrshasi  \  asmdihs  tad  enopagachchhet  Icritam  Vdrhadratha 
tvayd  \  vayam  hi  salctdh  dharmasya  rakshane  dharmachdrt'nah  \  manushyd- 
ndm  samdlambho  na  cha  drishfah  Icaddchana  \  sa  Icatham  mdnushair  Aevam 
yashtum  ichhasi  S'anka/ram  \  sauarno  hi  savarndndmzsi  pasu-sanjndrh 

284  On  this  the  commentator  remarks :  Nanu  "  Brahmane  brahmanam  alabheta  " 
ityadina  sarva-jafiyanam  sarva-karmandm  manushyanam  alambho  devatartham  ba- 
dhah  sruyate  ity  asanjcya  aha  savarno  hi  iti  \  "  But  is  not  the  immolation, — the 
slaughter  as  an  offering  to  a  god, — of  men  of  all  classes,  and  all  occupations,  enjoined 
in  such  Vedic  texts  as  this,  '  let  him  immolate  a  Brahmana  to  Brahman.'  etc.  ? 

A 

Having  raised  this  doubt,  he  says,  'For  thou,  belonging  to  the  same  tribe,'  etc." 

Texts  such  as  that  here  quoted  by  the  commentator  occur  in  the  Taitt.  Br.,  iii.  4, 1, 1  ff. 
(Brahmane  brahmanam  alabhate  ityadi  \  "  He  sacrifices  a  Brahmana  to  Brahman," 
etc.,  etc.)  and  in  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita,  xxx.  5  ff.  (Brahmane  brahmanam  ityadfj. 
In  regard  to  the  question  whether  human  sacrifices  were  practised  in  the'  earliest 
Vedic  age,  see  Prof.  Haug,  as  quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  p.  11,  and  in 
the  second  volume,  p.  463 ;  the  story  of  S'unas's'epa,  adduced  in  vol.  i.,  pp.  355  ff. ; 
Prof.  Miiller's  Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature,  pp.  419  f . ;  Prof.  "Weber's  paper  in  the 
Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  vol.  xviii.,  pp.  262  ff.  (reprinted  in  his 
Indische  Streifen,  i.,  pp.  54  ff.).  The  two  last-named  writers  quote  texts  from  the 
Aitareya  Brahmana,  ii.,  8,  and  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  i.,  2,  3,  6,  which  I  shall 
here  cite.  The"  former  begins  thus  :  Purushaih  vai  devah  pasum  alabhanta  \  tasmad 
alabdhad  medhah  udakramat  \  so  'svam  pravis'at  \  tasmad  asvo  medhyo  'bhavat  \  atha 
enam  utkranta-medham  atyarjanta  \  sa  kimpurusho  'bhavat  \  te  'svam  alubhanta \  so 
's'vad  alabdhad  udakramat  \  ««  gam  pravisqt  \  tasmad  aaur  medhyo  'bhavat  \  atha 
enam  \tikranta-medham  atyarjanta  sa  gauramrigo  'bhavat  \  te  gam  alabhanta  \  sa 
gor  alabdhad  udakramat  \  so  'vim  pravisat  \  "The  gods  sacrificed  a  man  as  a  victim. 
After  he  had  been  sacrificed,  the  sacrificial  element  went  Ait  of  him.  It  entered  into 
thl  horse,  which  consequently  became  suitable  for  sacrifice.  They  then  dismissed 
the  man,  after  the  sacrificial  element  had  left  him ;  jind  he  became  a  kimpurusha," 
[probably  an  ape,  according  to  Bb'htlingk  and  lloth;s  Lexicon,  vol.  ii.,  p.  228,  and 
vol.  v.,  p?1296 ;  with  whom  "Weber  agrees,  Ind.  Stud.,  ix.,  246.  "  The  author  very 

VOT,.    IV.  *  19 


290  KRISHNA  REBUKES  JARASANDHA, 

karishyasi  \  ko  'nyah  evam  yathd  hi  tvam  fyrasandha  vrithd-matih  \  yas- 
yam  yasydm  avasthayam  yat  yat^  karma  karoti  yah  \  tasydm  tasydm 
avasthdydm  tat-phalam  samavdpnuydt  \  te  tvdmjndti-khsaya-karam  vayam 
drtdnusdrinah  \jndti-vriddhi-nimittdrtham  vinihantum  ihdgatdh  |  .  .  .  . 
Jarasdndha  tivdcha  ....  882  :  Devatdriham  updhritya  rdjnah  Krishna 
katham  bhaydt  \  aham  adya  vimuchyeyam  kshdtram  vratam  anusmaran  \ 
"Thou,  king,  hast  demoted  [to  Mahadeva]  Kshatriyas  dwellers  in 
this  world.  Having  devised  this  cruel  iniquity,,  dost  thou  regard  thy- 
self as  guiltless  ?  How  should  a  king  slaughter  virtuous  kings  ?  Inas- 
much as  thou  hast  confined  kings,  and  seekest  to  offer  them  up  to 
Rudra,  the  guilt  committed  by  thee,  son  of  Vrihadratha,  would  attach 
to  us.  For  we  who  practise  righteousness  are  able  to  protect  righteous- 
ness. And  [such  a  thing  as]  the  immolation  of  men  has  never  been 
'  seen.  How  [then]  dost  thou  seek  to  sacrifice  to  the  god  S'ankara 
with  human  victims  ?  For  thou,  belonging  to  the  same  tribe  [as  those 

likely  means  a  dwarf,"  Hang's  transl.  of  the  Ait.  Br.,  p.  90,  note;  Muller  regards 
the  word  as  meaning  "a  savage."]  "They  sacrificed  the  horse,  from  which  the 
sacrificial  element  then  departed,  and  entered  into  the  ox,  which  consequently  became 
fit  for  sacrifice.  They  then  dismissed  the  horse  out  of  which  the  sacrificial  element 
had  departed,  and  it  became  a  white  deer.  They  next  sacrificed  the  ox,  from  which 
tH  sacrificial  element  then  departed,  and  entered  into  the  sheep,"  etc.  The  same 
thing  happens  to  the  goat  (in  which  the  sacrificial  element  remained  longest),  then 
to  the  earth,  in  which  it  (the  thing  fit  for  sacrifice),  when  followed  by  the  gods, 
be'came  rice. 

On  this  Prof.  Muller  remarks :  "  The  drift  of  this  story  is  most  likely  that  in 
former  times  all  these  victims  had  been  offered.  We  know  it  for  certain  in  the  case 
of  horses  and  oxen,  though  afterwards  these  sacrifices  were  discontinued." 

The  text  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  L,  2,  3,  6,  is  as  follows :  Purusham  ha 
vai  devah  agre  pasum  alebhire  \  tasya  alabdhasya  medho  'pachakrama  \  so  's'vam 
pravivesa  \  te  'svam  alabhanta  \  tasya  alabdhasya  medho  ''pachakrama  sa  gam  pra- 

vivesa  \  te  gam  a |  so  'vim  pravivesa  \  te  'vim  a |  so  'jam  pravivesa  \  te  'jam 

alabhanta  \  tasya  alabdhasya  medho  'pachakrama  \T  \  sa  imam  prithivlm  praviveia  \ 

tain  Jchanantah  iva  anvlshuh  \  tarn  anvavindams  tav  imau  vr~ihi-yavau  \ 

sa  yavad-vlryavad  ha  vai  asya  ete  sarve  patavah  alabdhah  syus  tavad-vlryavad  ha 
asya  havir  bhavati  yah  evam  veda  \  "  The  gods  formerly  offered  up  a  man  as  a 
victim.  The  sacrificial  element  left  him  when  he  had  been  sacrificed  and  entered 
into  the  horse.  They  offered  up  the  horse;  whereupon  the  sacrificial  element  went  out 
of  him  and  entered  into  the  ox"."  The  same  thing  happens  with  the  ox,  and  then 
with  the  sheep  and  the  goat  successively.  "  The  sacrificial  element  went  out  of  the 
goat,  and  (7)  entered  the  earth.  Digging,  they  searched  for  it,  and  found  it  (tae 

thing  fit  for  sacrifice)  in  the  shap*  of  rice  and  barley An  oblation  of  these 

grains  has  as  much  efficacy,  for- him  who  knows  this  fact,  as  resides  in  all  these 
victims  when  sacrificed." 


AXD  SLAYS  HIM.    STORY  Of  JARASANDHA'S  BIRTH.        291 

i 

princes],  wilt  designate  as  victims  men  of  thine  own  tribe.  What 
other  person,  Jarasandha,  is  so  foolfeh  as  thou?  Whosoever,  in  any 
condition,  perpetrates  arfy  particular  act,  will  reap  the  fruit  of  it  in 
that  particular  condition.  We,  tfye  avengers  of  the  afflicted,  seeking 
the  welfare  of  our  kindred,  have  come  hither  to  slay  thee,  the  de- 
stroyer of  thy  kindred."  Krishna,  then,  after  some  further  arguments, 
calls  upon  Jarasaildha  either  to  liberate  the  kings,  or  to  submit  to  be 
destroyed  in  combat.  'Jarasandha  (v.  880)  says  he  has  conquered  the 
kings,  and  has  a  right  to  act  as  he  is  doing.  He  adds  (v.  882):  "How, 
Krishna,  can  I,  who  have  devoted  the  kings  to  the  god,  remembering 
my  duty  as  a  Kshatriya,  to-day  release  them  through  fear?"  He  then 
accepts  the  challenge,  and  is  killed  by  Bhimasena. 

The  birth  of  Jarasandha  is  thus  related  in  the  Sabha-parvan ;  and  the 
narrative  contains  at  the  close  a  reference  to  his  being  a  worshipper  of 
Mahadeva.  His  father,  Yrihadratha,  had  two  wives,  who,  after  having 
been  long  barren,  at  length  bore  him  two  halves  of  a  boy  (v.  711), 
which,  being  regarded  with  horror,  were  thrown  out  (v.  714).  A 
female  demon  (llakshasi)  named  Jara,  an  eater  of  flesh,  takes  them  up 
(v.  715),  and  puts  them  together  in  order  that  they  may  be  more  easily 
carried  away.  A  boy  is  thus  formed  who  cries ;  and  people  in  con- 
sequence come  out  of  the  inner  apartments  of  the  palace,  and  among 
them  the  two  queens  and  the  king.  The  RakshasI  assumes  a  human 
shape,  and  gives  the  child  to  the  king,  who  then  asks  who  she  is.  She 
replies  (vv.  729  ff.) :  , 

Jard-ndmd  'smi  bhadram  te  Rdkshasi  kdma-rupini  \  tava  ve£mani  rdjen- 
dra  pujitd  nyavasam  sukham  \  grihe  grihe  manushydndm  nityam  tishthdmi 
rdkshasl  \  griha-devlti  ndmnd  vai  purd  srishtd  Svayambhuvd  \  ddnavdndm 
vindsdya  sthdpitd  divya-rupini  \  yo  mum  bhaktyd  likhet  kudye  saputrdm 
yauvandnvitdm  \  grihe  tasye  bhaved  vriddhir  anyathd  kshayam  dpnuydt  \ 
tvad-ffrihe  tishthamdnd  tu  pujitd  'ham  sadd  vibho  \  likhitd  chaiva  kudye 

'ham  putrair  bahubhir  dvritd  \  gandha-pushpais  tathd  dhupair  bhakshyair 

'  •  » 

bhojycu'h  supujitd  \  sd  'ham  pratyupakdrdrtham  chintaydmy  am'sam  tava  \ 
taveme  putra-sakale  drishtavaty  asmi  dhdrmika  \  samfyshite  mayd  daivdt 
kumdrah  samapadyata  \  tava  bhdgydd  mahdrdja  hetu-mdtram  aham  (v 
iha  |  Merum  vd  khdditum  saktd  kim  punas  tvca  bdlakam  \  griha-sampu- 
jandt  tushtyd  mayd  pratyarpitas  tava  \  » 

"I  am,  bless  thee,  a  Eakshasi  named  Jara,  who  can  change  my  shape 


292  WORSHIP  OF  THE  RAKSHASI  JARA. 

at  will.  "Worshipped  in  thy  house,  I  have  dwelt  there  in  comfort. 
Named  the  house-goddess,  I  dwe?l  constantly  in  every  separate  house 
of  men,  having  been  created  of  old  by  Svayarn'bhu;  and  placed  [there], 
of  celestial  form,  for  the  destruction  of  the  Danavas.  Prosperity  will 
remain  in  the  house  of  that  man  who  devoutly  paints  me  in  a  youthful 
form,  together  with  my  sons,  upon  his  wall; — otherwise  he  shall  decay. 
Abiding  in  thy  house,  0  king,  and  continually  revereficed,  painted  upon 
the  wall,285  surrounded  by  my  numerous  sons,  worshipped  with  odours 
and  flowers,  with  incense,  and  various  kinds  of  food,  I  continually 
consider  how  I  may  benefit  thee  in  return.  I  saw,  righteous  prince, 
these  two  pieces  of  thy  son ;  I  put  them  together  by  chance,  and  a 
boy  was  produced,  through  thy  good  fortune,  0  great  king,  and  I  was 
merely  the  instrument.  I  could  devour  mount  Meru,  much  more  thy 
son :  but  being  gratified  by  the  domestic  worship  1  have  received,  I 
have  restored  him  to  thee." 

The  Bakshasi  then  disappears.  King  Yrihadratha  orders  a  great 
festival  to  be  celebrated  among  the  people  of  Magadha  in  her  honour ; 
and  calls  the  boy  Jarasandha,  because  he  had  been  put  together  (san- 
dhitah)  by  the  Rakshasi  Jar  a  (v.  738.  Ajnapayach  cha  rdkshasydh 
Magadheshu  mahotsavam  \  tasya  ndmdJcaroch  chaiva  Pitdmaha-samah 
pita  |  Jarayd  sandJiito  yasmdj  Jardsandho  lhavatv  ayam).  The  rishi 
Chandakausika  arrives  on  a  certain  occasion  in  the  country  of  the  Maga- 
dhas,  and  prophesies  the  future  greatness  of  Jarasandha  (vv.  745  ff.). 
He  ends  by  saying  that  this  mighty  prince  of  Magadha  should  have 
a  manifest  vision  of  Rudra,  Mahadeva,  Hara,  the  destroyer  of  Tripura 
(v.  753.  EsJta  Rudram  Mahddevam  tripurdnta-karam  Haram  \  sarva- 
loke&hv  atibalo  sdkshdd  drakshyati  Magadhah}. 

The  description  here  given  by  the  Rakshasi  of  the  worship  paid  to 
herself,  furnishes,  as  Lassen  (who  quotes  it,  i.  609,  first  ed. ;  p.  755, 
second  ed.)  remarks,  an  instance  of  the  local  adoration  of  particular 
deities  in  ancient  India. 

In  the  account  given  of  the  transactions  connected  with  the  Rajasuya 
sacrifice  which  Yiidhishthira  sought  to  celebrate,  we  find  (as  Lassen, 

rf 

i.  673,  first  ed. ;  p.  821,  second  ed.,  remarks)  the  Pandavas  represented 
as  the  partisans  of  Krishna ;  and  this  legendary  narrative  may  perhfips 

265  Lassen  remarks,  vol.  i.,  p.  755,  note,  that  this  is  one  of  the  oldest  references 
in  Indian  literature  to  images  of  the  gods. 


GREAT  SACRIFICE  TO  VISHNU.  293 

• 

be  taken  as  an  indication  that  they  actually  were  the  votaries  of 
Vishnu,  and  opposed  to  the  worship  of  Mahadeva.  In  the  story  of 
S'isupala,  which  has  been  given  above  (pp.  205  ff.),  we  have  seen  that, 
in  the  assembly  of  princes  who  w^re  gathered  together  on  the  occasion 
of  that  ceremonial,  Krishna's  claims  to  veneration  were  strongly  main- 
tained by  the  Pandavas,  and  others  who  took  their  side,  while  they 
were  strenuously*  resisted  by  S'isupala,  an  adherent  of  the  Kauravas, 
and,  according  to  La'sst!n,28e  a  representative  of  the  S'aiva  worship. 
The  same  opposition  to  the  worship  of  Krishna  was,  as  I  have  already 
noticed,  manifested  by  Duryodhana,  Karna,  and  Salya  (pp.  216,  218, 
220,  etc.). 

It  is  true  that  there  is  one  passage  (refeia-ed  to  above,  p.  283,  note 
280),  to  which  Lassen  has  drawn  attention,  in  which  Duryodhana  is 
represented  as  having  offered  up  a  sacrifice  to  Vishnu;  and  as  this 
legend  exhibits  some  features  of  interest,  I  shall  give  some  account  of  it 
he/e.  In  the  Vana-parvan,  15274  ff.,  Karna,  after  having  conquered  the 
earth,  says  to  Duryodhana  that  the  earth  was  now  his,  and  he  should 
rule  over  it  like  Indra.  Duryodhana  answers  that  he  wished  to  celebrate 
a  Rajasuya  sacrifice.  Karna  replies  that  he  should  make  preparation 
for  that  purpose  (15278  ff.).  Duryodhana  then  sends  for  his  priest 
(purohita),  whom  he  desires  to  perform  the  sacrifice  (15284).  The 
priest,  however,  states  that  the  Kajasuya  sacrifice  cannot  be  celebrated 
by  *Duryodhana  while  Yudhishthira  lives,  and  while  his  own  father, 
Dhritarashtra,  survives  (15285  ff.);  but^he  suggests  that  there  is  another 
great  sacrifice  which  Duryodhana  may  offer  (15287  ff.) : 

Asti  tv  anyad  mahat  satram  rdjasuya-samam  pralho  \  tend  tvam  yaja 
rdjendra  srinu  ched^m  vacho  mama  \  ye  ime  prithivl-pdldh  Jcara-dds  tava 
pdrthiva  \  te  kardn  samprayachliantu  suvarnancha  Jcritdkritam  \  tena  te 
kriyatdm  adya  Idngalam  nripa-sattama  \  yajna-vdtasya  te  Ihumih 
krishyatdm  tena  Bhdrata  \  tatra  yajno  nripa-sreshtha  pralhutdnnah 
smamskritah  \  pravartatdm  yathdnydyam  sarvato  hy  anivdritah  \  esJia  te 
Vaisknavo  ndma  yajnah  satpurushochitah  \  etena  nesfitavan  Jcaschid  rite 
Vishnum  purdtanam  \  rdjasuyam  kratu-sreshthajji  spardhaty  esha 
mahdJcratuh  \  "But  there  is  another  great  ceremonial  equal  to  the 
Kajasuya,  with  which,  0  great  king,  do  tbfm  sacrifice  :  and  hear  this 
which  I  have  to  say.  Let  those  princes  who  are  your  tributaries 

236  See  above,  p.  211,  note  210. 


294  .        DURYODHANA  SACRIFICES  TO  VISHNU. 

present  to  you  their  contributions,  and  gold  both  wrought  and  un- 
wrought.  "With  this  let  a  plough1  'be  to-day  made,  and  with  it  let  the 
ground  of  thy  sacrificial  inclosure  be  ploughed.  There  let  a  sacrifice, 
well  arranged,  and  with  abundant  food,  be  duly  celebrated ;  for  it  will 
be  completely  unobstructed.  This  is  to  thee  the  Vaishnava  sacrifice 
1  (the  sacrifice  of  Vishnu),  a  ceremony  suitable  for  virtuous  men.  "With 
it  no  one  ever  sacrificed  except  the  ancient  VishriU.287  This  great 
ceremonial  vies  with  the  Rajasuya,  the  most  excellent  of  sacrifices." 

.Duryodhana  and  his  friends  consented  to  this  proposal  (15295  f.), 
and  the  sacrifice  was  accordingly  performed  (15301  ff.).  Amid  the 
rejoicings  which  followed  the  ceremony,  however,  some  foolish  persona 
said  to  Duryodhana  that  his  sacrifice  was  not  a  sixteenth  part  so  good 
as  Yudhishthira's  Rajasuya  sacrifice,  while  his  friends  said  that  this 
sacrifice  surpassed  all  other  ceremonies,  and  that  Yayati,  Nahusha, 
Handhatri,  and  Bharata,  had  celebrated  this  rite,  and  had  in  con- 
sequence gone  to  heaven  (15327  ff.) :  Apare  tv  abruvans  tatra  vdtifyas 
tarn  mahlpatim  \  Yudhishthirasya  yajnena  na  samo  hy  esha  te  Jcratuh  \ 
naiva  tasya  kratbr  esha  kaldm  arhati  shodaslm  \  evam  tatrdbruvan 
lechid  vatikds  tarn  janesvaram  \  suhridas  tv  abruvans  tatra  ati  sarvdn 
ayam  Jcratur  ityddi  \ 

'  I  am  not  aware  of  any  passage  of  the  Mahabharata  in  which  Dur- 
yodhana is  represented  as  a  special  worshipper  of  Mahadeva ;  but  in  a 
passage  in  the  Karna-parvan,  quoted  above,  pp.  223  ff.,  (which,  however, 
I  have  supposed  may  be  a  later  interpolation)  he  is  declared"  to  have 
narrated  a  legend  descriptive  of  Mahadeva's  prowess,  and  in  which 
Vishnu  is  generally  subordinated  to  his  rival.  Duryodhana  is  also  in 
two  passages  of  the  Mahabharata  connected  (as  if  h^  was  considered  to 
be  heretically  disposed)  with  a  Rakshasa  named  Charvaka,  and  is  re- 
presented as  his  friend  (S'anti-parvan,  1414-1442),  and  as  calling  him  to 
rnind  after  he  has  received  his  death-blow,  and  expressing  a  belief  that 
if  once  informed  of  his  fate,  the  eloquent  mendicant  Charvaka  would 
perform  an  expiation  for  him  in  the  holy  lake  Samantapanchaka.  • 

I  subjoin  both  of. these  passages:  the  substance  of  the  first  is  given 
at  the  close  of  the  preceding  sentence. 

S'alya-parvan,  v.   3619:  <Yadi  jdndti  Chdrvdkah  parivrad  vag-visd- 

267  It  must,  according  to  this,  have  been  very  uncommon.  Further  on,  however, 
it  is  said  to  have  been  celebrated  by  Yayuti  and  others. 


DURYODHANA'S  FRIENDSHIP  WITH  CHARVAKA.  295 

radah  \  karishyati  mahdbdho  dhruvam  chdpachitam  mama  \  Samantapan- 
chake  punye  trishu  lokethu  visrvfe  \ 

The  passage  from  the *S'anti-parvan,  v.  1414,  is  as  follows:  Nissabde 
cha  sthite  tatra  tato  vipra-jane  yunah  \  rdjdnam  brdhmana-chhadmd 
Charvdko  rdkshaso  'bravlt  \  tatra  Duryodhana-sakhd  bhikshu-rupena 
samvritah  \  sdkshah  sikhl  tridandl  cha  dhrishto^vigata-sddhvasah  \  vritah 
sarvais  tathd  viprair  dslrvdda-vivakshiibhih  \  param  sahasraih  rdjendra 
tapo-niyama-samsritaih  f  sa  dushtah  ptipam  dsamsuh  Pdndavdndm  n/a- 
hdtmandm  \  anamantryaiva  tun  viprams  tarn  uvdcha  mahipatim  \  Cli&r- 
vakali  uvaclia  \  ime  prahur  dvijah  sarve  samaropya  vacho  mayi  \  dhig 
lhavantam  kunripatim  jnati-ghdtinam  astu  vai  \  kim'tena  syadhi  Kaunteya 
kritvemam  jnati-sankshayam  \  ghatayitva  guriims  chaiva  mritam  sreyo 
najivitam  \  iti  te  vai  dvijah  srutvd  tasya  dushtasya  rakshasah  \  vivyathtts 
chukrusus  chaiva  tasya  vdkya-pradharshita.h  \  tatas  te  brdhmandh  sarve  sa 
cha  raja  Yudhishthirah  \  vrlditah  paramodvignds  tushnim  asan  visdmpate  \ 
Yudhishthirah  urdcha  \  pmsldantu  bhavanto  me  pranalasydbhiydchatah  \ 
pratydsanna-vyasaninam  na  main  dhikkartum  arhatha  \  Vaisampayanah 
uvdcha  |  tato  rajan  brdhmands  te  sarve  eva  visdmpate  \  uchur  naitad 
vacho  'smakaih  srlr  astu  tava  parthiva  \jajnus  chaiva  mahdtmdnas  tatas 
tujndna-chakshushd  \  brdhmandh  veda-vidvdmsas  tapoibhir  vimallkrituh  \ 
brdhmandh  uchuh  \  esha  Duryodhana-sakhd  Charvdko  nama  rakshasah  \ 
parivrdjaka-rupena  hitam  tasya  chiklrshtrii  \  na  vayam  bruma  dharmdt- 
man  vyetu'te  bhayam  idrisam  \  upatishthatu  kalydnam  bhavantam  bhrd- 
tribhih  saha  \  Vaisampayanah  uvdcha  \  Jatas  te  brdhmandh  sarve  hunkd- 
raih  krodha-murchhitdh  |  nirbhartsayantah  suchayo  nijaghnuh  pdpa- 
rdkshasam  j  sa  papdta  vinirdagdhas  tej'asd  brahmavddindm  \  mdhendrd- 
scini-nirdagdhahpddapo  \nkuravdn  iva  \  pujitds  cha  yayur  viprdh  rujdnam 
abhinandya  tarn  \  raja  cha  harsham  a,pede  Pdndavah  sa-suhrij-janah  \ 
tatas  tatra  tu  rajanaify  tishthantam  bhrdtribhih  saha  \  uvdcha  Devakl- 
putrah  sarvadarsl  Jandrdanah  \  Fdsudevah  uvdcha  \  brdhmands  tdta  loke 
'sminn  archaniydh  sadd  mama  \  ete  bhumichardh  devdh  vda-vishdh  supra- 
sddakdh  \  purd  Kritayuge  rdjams  Charvdko  nama  rakshasah  \  tapas  tepe 
mahdbdho  Vadarydm  lahuvdrshikam  \  varena  chhandyamdnas  cha 
Brahmana  cha  punah  punah  \  abhayam  sarva-bhiitebhyo  varaydmdsa 
Bharata  \  dvijdKamdndd  anyatra  prdddd  wram  anuttamam  \  abhayam 
sarvabhutebhyo  dadau  tasmai  Prajdpatih  \  sd  tu  labdha-varah  pdpo  devdn 
amita-vikramah  \  rdkshasas  tdpaydmdsa  tivrakarmd  mahdbalah  \  1414. 


296  CHARVAKA  IS  SLAIN  BY  THE  BRAHMANS. 

"When  the  Brahmans  were  again  standing  silent,  the  Rakshasa  Char- 
vaka, the  friend  of  Duryodhana,  a  pretended  Brahman,  in  the  garb  of 
a  mendicant,  with  a  rosary,  a  lock  of  hair  on  his  head,  carrying  three 
staves,  bold,  and  shameless,  addressed  the  king.  Surrounded  thus  by 
all  the  Brahmans,  thousands  in  number,  who  were  devoted  to  austere 
observances,  and  who  sought  to  utter  blessings,  this  wretch,  who  wished 
ill  to  the  great  Pandavas,  without  consulting  the  Brah'mans,  thus  spoke 
to  the  monarch :  '  All  these  Brahmans,  assigning  the  speech  to  me, 
utter  an  imprecation  against  thee,  thou  wicked  king,  slayer  of  thy 
kindred.  What  can  come  of  this?  Since  thou  hast  destroyed  thy 
kinsmen,  and  slaughtered  thy  elders,  death  is  better  for  thee  than  life.' 
Hearing  the  words  of  this  wicked  Rakshasa,  the  Brahmans  were  pained, 
and  cried  out,  being  provoked  by  his  speech.  'All  the  Brahmans  and 
king  Yudhishthira,  being  ashamed  and  extremely  vexed,  remained 
silent.  Then  Yudhishthira  said :  '  Let  all  your  reverences  be  gracious 
to  me,  who  bow  down,  and  supplicate  you.  You  ought  not  to  curse 
me,  who  have  so  recently  been  involved  in  calamity.'  All  the  Brahmans 
replied :  '  These  were  not  our  words :  prosperity  be  thine,  0  king  ! ' 
These  great  Brahmans,  learned  in  the  Veda,  purified  by  austerities, 
understood  by  the  eye  of  knowledge  (who  Charvaka  was).  They  said : 
'  This  is  a  Rakshasa  called  Charvaka,  the  friend  of  Duryodhana,  who 
has  assumed  the  form  of  a  pandering  mendicant,  and  desires  his 
welfare.  We  say  nothing  (of  what  he  pretends) ;  let  such1  an  appre- 
hension pass  away  from  thee  :  <  may  good  fortune  be  the  lot  of  thyself 
and  thy  brothers  ! '  The  holy  Brahmans  then,  furious  with  anger,  slew 
the  wicked  Rakshasa,  reviling  him  with  loud  menaces.  Burnt  up 
by  the  fervour  of  these  utterers  of  the  Veda,  he  fell,  like  a  sprouting 
tree  consumed  by  the  lightning  of  Indra.  The  Brahmans  honoured, 
departed,  after  saluting  the  king ;  and  the  Pandava  monarch  and  his 
friends  were  glad.  The  all-seeing  Janardana,  son  of  Devaki,  then  said 
to  the  king  as  he  stood  there  with  his  brothe rs  :  '  The  Brahmans  are 
always  to  be  revered  by  me  in  this  world  :  they  are  gods  who  walk  on 
the  earth,  whose  wordsr  are  poison,  and  also  beneficent.  Formerly,  in 
the  Krita  age,  a  Rakshasa  named  Charvaka  practised  austerity  fyr 
many  years  at  Badari.  Having  again  and  again  received  from  Brahma 
the  offer  of  any  boon  which  he  might  prefer,  he  chose  that  of  security 
against  all  creatures.  Prajapati  granted  the  incomparable  boon  which 


rURUSHOTTAMA,  THE  PAUNpRA  VASUDEVA.  297 

he  asked,  on  condition  that  he  should  not  contemn  the  Brahmans.  But 
the  wicked  Rakshasa  of  boundless  valour,  fierce  in  act,  and  great 
in  force,  having  obtained  the  boon,  began  to  vex  the  gods.'"  The 
result  is  that  they  appeal  to  Brahma,  who  assures  them  that  he  has 
provided  for  the  speedy  death  of  Charvaka.  Duryodhana  will  become 
his  friena  ;  and  out  of  regard  to  him,  he  will  ,treat  the  Brahmans  with 
disrespect ;  and  they  will  destroy  him.  This  has  now  been  fulfilled.238 

In  his  Indische  St'ucfien,  i.  206,  Professor  "Weber  conjectures  that 
"the  Kurus  may  have  been  the  representatives  of  the  Eudra  (=S'iva)- 
worship,  and  the  Pandus  or  Panchalas  of  the  Indra  (=Yishnu)- 
worship,"  and  this  supposition  seems  to  derive  support  from  the  con- 
siderations which  have  just  been  adduced.  • 

The  following  passage  from  the  Sabha-parvan  (where  Krishna  is  de- 
scribing to  Yudhishthira  the  different  partisans  of  Jarasandha)  appears 
as  if  it  contained  a  tradition  indicating  some  struggle,  at  a  period  ante- 
cedent to  that  of  the  writer,  between  the  worship  of  Vishnu,  and  that 
of  some  local  deity  who  was  venerated  in  the  provinces  east  of  Hagadha. 

Jardsandham  gatas  tv  eva  pura  yo  na  mayd  hatah  \  Purushottama- 
vijndto  yo  'sau  Chedishu  durmatih  \  dtmdnam  pratijdndti  loke  'smin 
Puroshottamam  \  ddatte  satatam  mohdd  yah  sa  chihnam  cha  mdmalcan$  \ 
Vanga-Pundra-Kirdteshu  rdjd  lala-samanvitah  \  Paundralco  Vdsudeveti 
yo  'sau  loke  'bhivisrutah  |  "And  he  wh^  formerly  was  not  slain  by  me, 
has  also  taken  the  side  of  Jarasandha — (I  mean)  the  wicked  man  who 
is  known  as  Purushottama  among  the*  Chedis,  who  in  this  world  pro- 
fesses himself  to  be  Purushottama,  who  through  infatuation  continually 
assumes  my  mark — He  who  is  a  powerful  king  among  the  Bangas, 
Pundras,  and  Kirstas,*md  is  celebrated  in  the  world  as  the  Vasudeva 
of  the  Pundras.289  He  is  mentioned  also  Adip.  v.  6992. 


288  Both  passages  had  been  previously  translated  by  me  in  the  Journal  of  the  Royal 
Asiatic  Society,  vol.  xix.,  pp.  308  f.  I  have  not  been»able  to  find  any  other  text 
in  the  Mahubharata  in  which  the  connexion  of  Duryodhana  with  this  Charvaka 
(who  stands  here,  no  doubt,  as  a  mythical  representative  of  the  well-known  heretics 
olj  that  name)  is  more  explicitly  described ;  though,  from  the  two  passages  above 
adverted  to,  one  would  have  expected  to  find  some  ftrther  references  to  Duryodhana's 
connexion  with  him.  The  passage  referred  to  in  ,the  summary  of  the  contents  of 
the  Mahibharata,  i.  349,  must  be  the  second  of  those  here  quoted. 

2b9  On  this  Lassen  remarks  (i.  p.  608,  %first  ed. ;  p.  754  f.,  second'ed.) :  "  Since 


298    PROF.  WEBER'S  REMARKS  ON  THE  PRECEDING  CHAPTER. 

The  following  remarks  of  Prof.  Weber  on  the  preceding  chapter 
(translated  from  a  notice  of  this  work-in  the  " Literarisches  Central- 
Blatt,"  reprinted  in  his  "Indische  Streifen,"  ii.  226  f.)  may  be  in- 
troduced here,  though  they  might  perhaps  have  "been  more  appropri- 
ately quoted  in  p.  97,  or  p.  163.  "As  regards  the  second  part,  the 
representation  of  the  Vishnu  legends,  it  is  impossible  to  arrive  at  any 
certain  conception  of  the  proper  nature  of  this  god  from  the  documents 
presented  to  us.  According  to  our  view  it  would  have  been  perhaps 
more  advantageous  for  the  course  of  the  representation  in  general  to 
start,  not  from  the  later  triad  of  gods,  but  from  the  Yedic  triad,  which 
so  often  appears  in  the  Brahmana  texts  themselves,  viz.  that  of  Agni, 
Vayu,  and  Surya,  the  rulers  of  the  earth,  the  air,  and  the  heaven ;  as 
we  have  in  fact  actually  to  recognize  this  as  the  foundation  of  the  later 
triad.  The  sun,  as  the  generative,  creative,  principle,  is  throughout 
the  ritual- texts  regarded  as  the  equivalent  of  Prajapati,  the  father  of 
the  creation.  The  destructive  power  of  fire  in  connexion  with  the 
raging  of  the  driving  storm  lies  clearly,  enough  at  the  foundation 
of  the  epic  form  of  S'iva.  By  the  side  of  Vayu,  the  wind,  stands  his 
companion  Indra,  the  lord  of  the  light,  clear,  heaven ;  and  with  him 
again  Vishnu,  the  lord  of  the  solar  orb,  stands  in  a  fraternal  relation 
(see  my  two*Vedic  texts  on  omens  and  portents,  p.  338).  This  close 
relation  of  Yishnu  to  Indra  is^  far  from  being  estimated  by  the  author 
in  its  full  significance.  Yishnu  owes  to  Indra  his  blue  colour,  his 
names  Vasava  and  Yasudeva,  ?,nd  his  relations  to  the  human  heroes, 
as  Arjuna,  Earn  a,  and  Krishna,  which  have  become  of  such  great  im- 
portance for  his  entire  history." 

• 

these  (Purushottama  and  Vasudeva)  became  in  later  times  two  of  the  most  venerated 
names  of  Vishnu,  it  is  clear  from'  tbis  passage,  that  among  the  Eastern  tribes,  and 
those  too  not  of  Arian  origin,  a  supreme  god  was  worshipped,  whose  name  was  after- 
wards transferred  to  Yishnu." 


299 


CHAPTER  III. 

RTJDRA  AND  MAHADEVA,  AS  REPRESENTED  IN  THE  VEDIC 
'  HYMNS,  AND.  THE  BRAHMANAS. 

IN  the  preceding  chapter  I  have  quoted/  a  variety  of  passages  from 
the  Hahabharata,  which,  though  primarily  adduced  to  illustrate  tlie 
ideas  entertained  of  Krishna's  nature,  afford  at  the  same  time  a 
pretty  full  representation  of  the  attributes  of  Hahadeva  as  he  was  con- 
ceived in  the  period  of  the  epic  poems  a'nd»Puranas.  I  have  thus 
anticipated  much  that  would  otherwise  have  found  its  place  towards 
the  close  of  the  present  chapter,  of  which  it  is  the  purpose  to  compare 
the  earlier  and  the  later  accounts  furnished  to  us  by  Indian  literature 
of  the  deity  or  deities  to  whom  the  name  of  Rudra  was  applied.  I 
shall  now  proceed  to  adduce  the  passages  relating  to  this  divinity  which 
occur  (1)  in  the  Rig-veda,  (2)  in  the  Yajur-veda,  (3)  in  the  Atharva- 
veda,  and  (4)  in  the  Brahmanas,  and  to  compare  the  representations 
which  they  contain  with  those  which  are  found  in  the  texts  descriptive 
of  Mahadeva  which  I  have  quoted  in  the  preceding  chapter. 

SECT.  I. — Rudra  as  represented  in  the  Hymns  of  the  Rig-veda. 

In  the  present  Section  I  purpose  to»  quote  all  the  texts  of  the  Rig- 
veda  in  which  the  word  Rudra  occurs  in  the  singular,  whether  as  ail 
epithet  of  Agni  or  as  the  name  of  a  separate  deity. 

R.V.  i.  27,  10  (S.Vt  i.  15;  Nir.  x.  8). — Jardbodha  tad  vividdhi  vise 
vise  yajniydya  stomarh  rudrdya  drislkam  \  "  Thou  who  art  skilled  in 
praise,  utter  therefore  fyr  every  house  a  beautiful  hymn  to  the  adorable, 
the  terrible  (Agni)."1  In  connexion  with  this  verse,  Taska  remarks: 

Nir.  x.  7  and  8. — Agn{r  api  rudrah  uchyate  \  tasya  eshd  bhavati.  .  .  . 
jard  siutih  \  jarateh  stuti-karmanah  \  turn  bodha  tayd  ^odhayitar  iti  vd  \ 
tad  vividdhi2  tat  kuru  manushyasya  manushyasya  yajandya  stomam 
Rudrdya  darsanlyam  \  "  Agni  also  is  called  Rudra,  as  in  this  verse 

1  See   Pr<)f.  Benfey's  version  of  this  and  folio wiSg  texts  of  the  first  mandala  of 
the  R.V.  in  his  "  Orient  und  Occident."  ' 

2  See  "Westergaard,  Benfey's  Glossary  to  Sama-veda,  and  Bohtlingk  and  Roth, 
s.  v,  visit.  » 


300  TEXTS  OF  THE  RIGVEDA 

(the  one  before  us).  Jard  nfeans  '  praise.'  One  who  perceives  it,  or 
awakens  [another]  by  it,  is  jardlodha.  f  Compose  that  for  the  worship 
of  every  man, — a  sightly  hymn  for  the  terrible.""  Eoth  (Illust.  of  Nir., 
p.  136)  remarks  4hat  "rudra"  in  thss  verse  is  an  epithet  of  Agni,  to 
whom  the  whole  "tricha,"  or  aggregate  of  three  verses  in  which  it 
occurs,  is  addressed;  an^he  refers  to  K.V.  x.  70,  2,  3,  and  R.  Y.  viii. 
26,  5,  where  the  same  epithet  is  appliedan  the  dual  to  Dditra  and  Yaruna, 
and  to  the  Asvins,3  respectively.  Roth  also  quotes  from  Jayatirtha 
the  following  short  itihdsa  in  reference  to  this  verse,  which,  however, 
applies  it  to  Rudra  :  Agnih  stuyamdnah  S'unasSepham  uvacha  "Rudram 
stuhi  raudrdh  hi  pasavah"  iti  \  Sa  tarn  praty  uvacha  "  ndharn  jdndmi 
Rudram  stotum  tvam  eva^etafii  stuhi"  iti  tad  idam  uchyate  "Hejardbodha 
Rudra-stuti-vettas  tat  kuru"  ityddi  \  "  Agni,  when  he  was  being 
praised,  said  to  S'unassepha,  '  Praise  Rudra,  for  cattle  (or  victims) 
belong  to  him.'  He  (S'unassepha)  answered,  '  I  do  not  know  how  to 
praise  Rudra ;  do  thou  praise  him.'  It  is  this  which  is  here  expressed, 
'  0  thou  who  art  skilled  in  the  praise  of  Rudra,  do  thou  do  so.'  " 

R.Y.  i.  43,  1  ff. — ]£ad  Rudrdya  prachetase  mllhushtamdya  tavyase  \ 
vochema  iantamam  hride  \  2.  Yathd  no  Aditih  karat  pasve  nrilhyo 
yqthd  gave  \  yathd  tokdya  rudriyam*  \  3.  Yathd  no  Mitro  Varuno  yathd 
Rudras  chiketati  \  yathd  visve  sajoshasah  \  4.  Gdtha-patim  medha-patim 
Rudram  jaldsha-lheshajam  \  tat  iamyoh  sumnam  Imahe  \  5.  Yah  sukrah 
iva  suryo  hiranyam  iva  rochate  \  sreshtho  devdndm  vasuh  \  6.  Sam  nah 
karaty  arvate  sugam  meshdya  meshy e  \  nrilhyo  ndrilhyo  gave  \  "  What 
can  we  utter  to  Rudra,  the  intelligent,  the  most  bountiful,  the  strong, 
which  shall  be  most  pleasant  to  his  heart?  2.  That  so  Aditi  may 
bring  Rudra's  healing  to  our  cattle,  and  menr  and'kine,  and  children. 
3.  That  so  Mitra,  Yaruna,  Rudra,  and  all  the  [gods]  united,  may  think 
of  us.  4.  We  seek  from  Rudra,  the  lord  of  songs,  the  lord  of  sacrifices, 
who  possesses  healing  remedies,  his  auspicious  favour.  5.  [We  seek 
this  from  him]  who  is  brilliant  as  the  sun,  who  shines  like  gold,  who 
is  the  best  and  nfost  bountiful  of  the  gods.  6.  He  grants  prosperity 
and  welfare  to  our  horses,  rams,  ewes,  men,  women,  and  cows." 

R.V.  i.  64,  2. — Te  jajnire  divah  rishvdsah  ukshano  Rudrasya  marydh 
asurdh  arepasah  \  pdvakdsdh  suchayah  surydh  iva  satvdno  na  drapsino 

3  See  also  R.V.  viii.  22,  14,  which  will  be  quoted  further  on. 

4  "Rudra's  favour"  (Benfey).    Compare  marutasya  bheshajasya  in  R.V.  viii.  20,  23. 

• 


RELATING  TO  RUDRA.  301 

ghora-varpasah  \  3.  Yuvdno  Rudrdh  ajardh  alhogghano  vavakshur-adhri- 
gdvahparvaidh  iva  \  drilhd  chid  visv&bhuvandni  pdrthivd  prachydvayanti 
divydni  majmand  j  .  .  .'  .  12.  Ghrishum  pdvakam  vaninam  vicharsha- 
niih  Rudrasya  sunum  havasd  grinlmdsi  \  rajasturarn  tavasam  mdrutam 
ganam  rijuhinam  vrishanam  saschata  sriye  \  "These  followers  of  Eudra 
have  been  produced  from  the  Sky,  exalted,  fertilizing,  divine,  purifiers, 
bright  as  suns,  like  heroes,  shedding  drops,  fearful  in  form.  3.  The 
youthful  Eudras,  undeaaying,  destroyers  of  the  niggardly,  resistless, 
[firm  as]  mountains,  have  increased  [in  'vigour].  By  their  power 
they  cast  down  all  terrestrial  and  celestial  creatures,  however  firm.  .  . 
12.  We  praise  with  invocations  the  fierce,  purifying,  rain-dispensing 
energetic  offspring  of  Eudra.  To  obtain  prosperity,  worship  the  host 
of  Maruts,  which  sweeps  over  the  atmosphere,  vigorous,  impetuous,  and 
fertilizing."5 

E.Y.  i.  85, 1. — Pro,  ye  sumbhante  janayo  na  sagtayo6  ydman Rudrasya 
sunavah  sudamsasah  \  rodasl  hi  marutas  chakrire  vridhe  madanti  vlrdh 
vidatheshu  ghrishvayah  \  "  The  swift  Maruts,  energetic  sons  of  Eudra, 
who,  in  their  course,  are  bright  like  wives,  have  made  the  two  worlds 
to  prosper,  and,  impetuous  heroes,  rejoice  in  sacrifices." 

E.V.  i.  114,  1  if.  (Yaj.  S.  16,  48;  Taitt.  S.  iv.  5,  10,  1).— Imdh 
Rudrdya  tavase  kapardine1.  kshayad-vlrdya* prabhardmahe  matlh  \  yafhd 

6  See  Prof.  Max  Midler's  version  of  this  hymn,  and  of  that  next  quoted,  in  his 
Translation  of  the  R.V.,  vol.  i. 

6  See  Prof.  Max  Miiller's  note  on  this  wori,  translation  of  R.V.  i.  110  ff.     The 
word  also  occurs  in  R.V.  x.  142,  2,  as  well  as  in  the  other  texts  enumerated  by 
Miiller,  p.  112 

7  Eapardin   is   also   an   epithet  of  Pushan  in  R.V.  vi.  55,  2  :  Rathltamaih  ka- 
pardinam    Isanani    raXhaso   mahah  \    rayah   sakhayam    Imahe  \      "We   solicit   the 
great  charioteer,  adorned  with  spirally-hraided  hair,  the  lord  of  great  bounty,  and  our 
friend,  for  wealth."     And  also  in  R.V.  ix.  67,  10,  11 :    Avita  no  ajasvah  Pusha 
yamani  yamani  \    abhakshxt  kanyasu  nah  \     11.   At/am  somah  kapardine  gliritam  na 
pavate  madhu  \   a  bhakshat  kanyasu  nah  \    "  Pushan,  who  has  goats  for  steeds,  is 
our  protector  on  every  journey.     May  he  make  us  possessors  of  damsels.     11.  This 
soma  is  purified  for  the  gocf  with  spirally -^braided  hair,  like  sweet  butter.     May  he 
make 'us  possessors  of  damsels."     The  word  is  also  applied  to  the  Tritsus  in  R.V. 

vii.  83,  8 S'vityancho  yatra  namasa  kapardino  dhiya  dhlvanto  asapanta 

Tfitsavah  \ "Where  the  white-robed  Tritsus  with  braided  hair  have 

worshipped   you   with  obeisances  and  prayers."      With  this  compare  dakshinatas- 
kapardah  in  R.V.  vii.  33,  1.     The  word  Kapardin  8lso  occurs  in  R.V.  x.  102,  8. 

8  ftis   word  is  rendered  "governing  men"   by   Bb'htlingk  and   Roth,  vol.  ii. 
(published  1856-1858),  who  first  cite,  as  determining  the  sense  of  the  word,  R.V. 


302  MEANING  OF  THE  EPITHET  KSHAYADVIEA. 

sam  asad  dvipade  chatushpade  visvam  pushfafh  grdme  asminn  andturam  \ 
2.  (=T.  S.  iv.  5,  10,  2)  Mrila  no^Rudra  uta  no  may  as  kridhi  kshayad- 
virdya  namasd  vidhema  te  \  yat  sam  cha  yoschti  Ifanur  a.  yeje  pita  tad 
asydma  tava  Rudra  pranltishu  \  3.  Asydma  te  sumatim  deva-yajyayd 
kshayad-vlrasya  tava  Rudra  mldhvah  \  sumndyann  id  visa  asmdkam 
achara  arishta-vlrdh  juhavdma  te  havih  \  4.  Tvesham  vayam  Rudram 

viii.  19,  10:  Yasya  tvam  urdhvo  adhvaraya  tishthasi  kshayadvlrah  sa  sadhate  \  so 
arvadbhih  sanita  sa  vipanyubhih  sa  suraih  sanita  kritam  \  "The  man  to  whom  thou 
hoyerest  over  the  sacrifice,  prospers  as  a  commander  of  heroes :  he,  with  horses,  with 
triumphant  men,  with  heroes,  will  acquire  spoil."  Benfey  also  (Orient  und  Occident, 
iii.  pp.  140  and  156)  renders  the  word  "governing  heroes"  ;  and  adds  in  a  note  on 
the  latter  page :  "  Are  the  heroes,  the  single  stormy  winds,  the  maruts  (comp.  v.  6) 
over  whom  Rudr£> rules;  or  is  Rudra  generally  designated  as  the  lord  of  all  heroes, 
inasmuch  as  he  makes  them  swift,  and  destructive  as  storm-winds,  in  battle  ? 
'  Destroyer  of  heroes,'  as  "Whitney  proposes,  ('slayer  of  men,'  Journal  of  the  American 
Oriental  Society,  vol.  iii.,  p.  319,  published  in  1853),  is  not  specially  suitable 
in  R.V.  viii.  19,  10,  or  in  other  places."  Professor  Aufrecht  translates  the  word 
"ruling  over  men"  (as  w'ell  as  gods).  Rudra,  he  remarks,  is  called  Isanad  asya 
bhuvanasya  bhureh,  "lord  over  this  manifold  creation,"  in  R.V.  ii.  33,  9;  and 
compares  sed  u  raja  Jcshayati  charshanmam  in  i.  32,  15,  and  the  similar  phrases 
in  i.  112,  3,  and  x.  9,  5.  KshayadvTra  is,  he  believes,  nothing  more  than  the  usual 
nripati.  It  is  true}  Professor  Aufrecht  adds,  that  in  i.  114,  8,  it  is  said  of  Rudra, 
"do  not  strike  our  children  in  thy  anger,"  and  that  in  iv.  3,  6,  he  is  called  nrihan ; 
but  he  does  not  think  it  likely  that  in  one  particular  hymn  a  word  should  have  a 
quite  different  meaning  from  that  which  it  has  in  all  other  passages ;  and  regards  it 
as  quite  possible  that  nrihan  may  be  based  on  a  false  interpretation  of  kshayadvfra. 
Sayana  renders  the  word  variously.  On  the  passage  above  referred  to,  viii.  19,  10, 
he  interprets  it:  nivasadbhir  itvar"air  va  v'iraih  putradibhir  ixpetah  \  i.e.  "attended  by 
heroes,  sons,  etc.,  dwelling  or  moving."  On  i.  106,  4,  where  it  is  an  epithet  of  Pushan, 
he  explains  it  ati-balinam  \  yasmin  saPve  v~>rah  ksh7yante,  i.e.  "very  powerful :  he  in 
whom  all  heroes  are  consumed."  On  the  passage  before  us,  i.  1 14, 1,  he  gives  t\vo  possible 
explanations  of  it :  Eshayanto  vinasyanto  vlrah  yasmin  tadrisaya  \  yadva  kshayatir 
ativaryakarma  \  kshayantah  praptaisv  aryah  vlrah  Mariidganah  putrah  yasya\  "He 
in  whom  heroes  perish  ;  or,  as  the  root  kshi  also  means  'exercising  authority,' — he  of 
whom  the  Maruts,  heroes,  exercising  authority,  are  the  sons."  The  same  verse 
occurs  in  Vaj.  S.,  xvi.  48,  where  Mahldhara  interprets  the  phrase :  Kshayanto  niva- 
santo  vlrah  surah  yatra  sa  kshayadvlras  tasmai  sura-yutaya  ity  arthah  \  kshayanto 
nasyanto  vlrah  ripavo  yasmad  iti  va  \  "He  in  whom  heroes  dwell  is  ksJiayadv~tra ; 
to  him  who  is  possessed  of  heroes.  Or,  he  through  wbjom  heroes  perish."  On  the 
second  and  third  verses  of  i.  114,  Sayana  repeats  in  different  words  the  explanations 
he  had  given  on  the  first  verse  (Kshayita-sarva-vlram  praptaisvaryair  marudbhir 
yuktam  va  \  kshayita-pratifakshasya  Marudbhir  yuktasya  va).  On  verse  10,  he 
confines  himself  to  the  one  explanation,  Kshayita-sarva-satru-jana.  In  R.V.  d. 
125,  3,  the  same  epithet  is  applied  to  Indra ;  where  Sayana  expounds  it  thus : 
Kshiyanto  nivasanto  vlrah  putra-bhrityadayo  yasya  tarn  tadrisam  tvad-ishta-sadbana- 
bahu-dhana-pradataram  \  "  He  in  whom  heroes,  sons,  servants,  etc.,  abide — the  giver 
of  much  wealth,  which  is  the  instrument  of  obtaining  thy  wishes." 


SAYANA'S  ETYMOLOGIES  OF  THE  WORD  RUDRA.  303 

1  » 

*yajna-sddham  vankwn  Jcavim  avase  nihvaydmahe  \  are  asmad  daivyam  helo 
asyatu  sumatim  id  vayam  asya  d  vrigimahe  \  5.  Divo  vardham  arusham 
Icapardinam  tvesham  riipcm  nam'asd  nihvayamahe  \  haste  bibhrad  bheshajd 
vdryani  iarma  varma  chhardir  asmabhyam  yamsat  \  6.  Idtlm  pitre  Maru- 
tdm  uchyate  vachah  svddoh  svddlyo  Rudrdya  vardhanam  \  rdsva  cha  no 
amrita  marta-bhojanam  trnane  toJcdya,  tanaydya  mrila  \  7  (=V.  S.  16, 
15;  T.  S.  iv.  5,  V),  2  ;  A.  Y.  ii.  2,  29).  Md  no  mahdntam  uta  md  no 
arbhakam  md  nah  ukshqntym  uta  ma  nah  ukshitam  \  md  no  badhlh  pitaram 
mota  mdtaram  md  nah  priyds  tanvo  Rudra  ririshah  \  8.  (V.  S.  16,  16.  ; 
T.  S.  iv.  5,  10,  3).  Md  nas  tolce  tanaye  md  na  dyau  (dyushi  V.  S.,  T.  S.) 
md  no  goshu  md  no  asveshu  ririshah  \  virdn  md  no  bhdmito  (bhdmino 
V.  S.,  T.  S.)  badhlr  havishmantah  sadam  it  tvd  havdmahe  \  ^§Upa  te  stomdn 
pasu-pdh  ivdkaram  rdsva  pitar  Marutdm  sumnam  asme  \  bhadrd  hi  te 
sumatir  mrilayattamd  atha  vayam  avah  it  te  vrimmahe  \  10.  (T.S.  iv. 
5,  10,  3).  Are  te  go-ghnam  uta  purusha-ghnam  Jcshayad-vlra  sumnam 
asme  te  astu  \  mrila  cha  no  adhi  cha  bruhi  deva  adha  cha  nah  sarma 
yachha  dvi-barhdh  \  11.  Avochdma  namo  asmai  avasyavah  srinotu  no 
havam  Rudro  marutvdn  \  tan  no  Mitro  Varuno  mamahantdm  Aditih 
sindhuh  prithivl  uta  dyauh  \ 

"We  present  these  prayers  to  Rudra,9  the  strdng,  with  spirally- 

p 

9  Sayana,  in  his  note  on  this  verse,  gives  no  less  than  six  explanations  of  the  word 
Rudra,  which  I  subjoin,  as  a  specimen  of  commentorial  ingenuity: 

Rodayaft  sarvam  antakale  iti  Eudrah  \  yadva  rut  samsamkhyam  duhkham  \  tad 
dravayaty  apagamayati  vinasayati  iti  Rudrah  \  yadva  rutah  sabda-rupah  upanisha- 
dah  \  tabhir  druyate  gamy  ate  pratipadyate  iti  Rudrah  \  yadva  rut  sabdatmika  vant 
tat-pratipadyatma-vidya  va  \  tarn  upasakebhyo  rati  dadati  iti  Rudrah  \  yadva  runa- 
ddhy  avrinoti  iti  rud  andhakaradi  \  tad  drinati  vidarayati  iti  Rudrah  \  yadva  kada- 
chid  deva  sura- sang  rame  'gny-atmako  Rudro  devair  nikshiptam  dhanam  apahritya 
niragat  \  asuran  jitva  devah  enam  anvishya  drishtva  dhanam  apaharan  \  tadariim 
arudat  \  tasmad  Rudrah  ity  akhyayate  \  "  He  is  called  Rudra  (1)  because  he  makes 
every  one  weep  (rodayati]  at  the  destruction  of  the  world.  Or  (2)  rut  means  the 
suffering  called  the  world. ,  He  drives  away  (dravayati),  removes,  destroys,  that : 
therefore  hais  named  Rudra.  Or  (3)  rut  in  the  plural  means  the  Upanishads,  which 
are  composed  of  words :  by  them  he  is  attained,  expounded  (druyate)  :  therefore  he 
is  termed  Rudra.  Or  (4)  rut  signifies  language  composed  of  words,  or  the  science  of 
soul  wMch  is  to  be  explained  by  it :  this  he  gives  (rati)  to  his  worshippers :  hence 
he  is  denominated  Rudra.  Or  (5)  the  root  rudh  means  to  shut,  cover ;  and  therefore  ' 
rut  means  darkness,  etc. :  he  tears  (drinati),  rends,  it :  therefore  he  is  designated  as 
Ruflra.  Or  (6)  when  on  one  occasion  there  was  a  battle  between  the  gods  and 
Asuras,  Rudra  having  the  nature  of  Agni  carried  off  the  treasures  which  had  been 
thrown  down  by  the  gods  and  went  away.  But  the  gods,  after  conquering  the 
Asuras,  sought  him,  'saw  him,  and  took  the  treasures  from  him :  then  he  wept  (arudat), 
and  from  that  he  is  called  Rudra."  , 


304        TRANSLATION  OF  HYMN  CXIT.,  BOOK  i.  OF  THE  R.V. 

braided  hair,  ruling  over  heroes,  that  there' may  be  prosperity  to  our1 
two-footed  and  four-footed  creatuces,  that  everything  in  this  village 
may  be  well  fed  and  free  from  disease.  2.  Bo  gracious  to  us,  Rudra, 
and  cause  us  happiness ;  let  us  with  obeisance  worship  thee,  the  ruler 
over  heroes.  Whatever  prosperity  and  blessing  our  father  Manu  ac- 
quired by  worship,  may  we  attain  it  all  under  thy  guidance,  Rudra. 

3.  May  we  by  our  divine  worship  obtain  the  goodwill  of  thee,  Rudra, 
who  art  the  ruler  of  heroes,  and  beneficent;,  act  favourably  towards 
our  people :  may  we,  with'  our  men  unharmed,  offer  thee  our  oblation. 

4.  We  invoke  to  our  succour  the  impetuous  Rudra,  the  fulfiller  of 
sacrifice,  the  swift,  the  wise.      May  he  drive  far  away  from  us  the 
anger  of  the%ods,  for  we  desire  his  favour.      5.  We  invoke  with 
obeisance  the  ruddy  boar  of  the  sky,  with  spirally-braided  hair,  a 
brilliant  form.     Carrying  in  his  hand  most  choice  remedies,  may  he 
give   us  protection,    defence,   shelter.      6.    This   exhilarating  hymn, 
sweeter  than  the  sweetest,  is  uttered  to  Rudra,   the  father  of  the 
Maruts.     Bestow  on  us,  0  immortal,  the  food  of  mortals ;  be  gracious 
to  ourselves,  our  children,  and  descendants.    7.  Slay  neither  our  great, 
nor  our  small,  neither  our  growing  nor  our  grown,  neither  our  father 
no'r  our  mother;   injure  not,  Rudra,  our  dear  selves.     8.  Injure  us 
not  in  our  children  and  descendants,  nor  in  our  men  (life,  Y.S.),  nor 
in  our  cattle,  nor  in  our  horses.     Slay  not  our  men  in  thine  anger 
(angry  men,  Y.S.):  we  continually  worship- thee  with  offerings.     9. 
As  a  keeper  of  cattle  (brings  victims),  so  have  we  brought  praises  near 
to  thee : 10   bestow  on  us  thy  favour,  0  father  of  the  Maruts.     For 
kind  and  most  gracious  is  thy  benevolence,  and  now  we  desire  thy 
succour.     10.  Far  from  us  be  thy  cow-slaying  and  thy  man-slaying 
[weapon] :  ruler  of  heroes,  let  thy  blessing  bce  with  us.     Be  gracious 
to  us,  0  god,  and  take  our  side;  bestow  on  us  mightily  thy  protection. 

11.  We  have  uttered  to  him  our  adoration,  desiring  his  help.     May 

o 

10  Compare  R.V.  x.  127,»8,  quoted  by  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.  kar-\-upa-\-a  : 
upa  te  gah  iva  akaram  vrinlshva  duhitar  divah  |  Rutri  stomaiii  najigyushe  "|  have, 
0  Night,  brought  before  thee  (praises)  as  it  were  cows ;  choose  (them,  daughter  of 
the  Sky),  as  it  were  a  hynsa  to  a  conqueror."  Sayana  (on  R.V.  i.  114,  9)  explains 
the  comparison  as  follows :  Yatha  pasunam  palayita  ffopah  pratahkale  svaswai 
samarpitan  pasun  sayamkale  syamibhyah  pratyarpayati  evam  tvat  sakasal  labdJian 
stutirupan  mantran  stuti-sadhanataya  tubhyam  pratyarpayami  ]  "As  a  cattle-herd 
returns  to  the  oAvners  in  the  evening  the  cattle  entrusted  to  him  in  the  morning,  so  I, 
by  the  fulfilment  of  praise,  give  back  to  thee  the  laudatory  hymns  received  from  thee." 


HOW  THE  MARUTS  BECAME  RUDRA' S  SONS.  305 

Rudra,  attended  by  the  Maruts,  listen  to  our  invocation.  Then  may 
Hitra,  Varuna,  Aditi,  Sindhu,  Earth/and  Sky,  gladden  us." 

In  Sayana's  annotations  on  the  sixth  verse,  he  quotes  the  following 
later  story  to  explain  how  Rudra  (iiere  identified  with  the  later  Maha- 
deva)  came  to  be  called  the  father  of-  the  Maruts : 

Rudrasya  Marutdm  pitritvam  evam  dkhydyate  \  purd  kaddchid  Indro 
'stirdn  jigdya  \  I'addriim  Ditir  Asura-mdtd  Indra-hanana-samartham 
putram  kdmayamdnd  tapdsd  Ihartuh  sakdsdd  garliham  leblie  \  imam  vri- 
ttdntam  avagachnann  Indro  vajra-hastah  san  sukshma-rupo  bhutvd  tasydh 
udaram  p'ravisya  tarn  garbharn  saptadhd  bibheda  \  punar  apy  ekaikam 
sapta-khandam  akarot  \  te  sane  garlhaika-desdh  yoner  nirgatydrudan  \ 
etasminn  avasare  lildrtliam  gachhantau  Pdrvqtl-paramesvardv  imdn  da- 
drisatuh  \  Mahesam  prati  Pdrvaty  evam  avochai  \  "ime  mdihsa-khanddh 
yathd  pratyekam  putrdh  sampadyantdm  evam  tvayd  Jcdryam  mayi  chet 
prltir  asti"  iti  \  sa  cha  Mahesvaras  tdn  samdna-rupdn  samdna-vayasah 
samdndlankdrdn  putrdn  krifod  Gauryai  pradadau  "  taveme  putrdh 
santv"  iti  \  atah  sarveshu  Mdruteshu  sukteshu  Maruto  Rudra-putrdh  iti 
stuyante  Raudreshu  cha,  Marutdm  pita  Rudrah  iti  \ 

"The  story  of  Rudra  being  the  father  of  the  Maruts  is  thus  re- 
counted. Formerly,  once  on  a  time,  Indra  overcame  the  Asuras^. 
Then  Diti,  the  mother  of  the  Asuras,  desiring  a  son  who  should  be  able 
to  slay  Indra,  through  austerity  became  pregnant  by  her  husband. 
Indra,  learning  this  news,  entered  into  her  womb  in  a  very  minute 
form,  with  a  thunberbolt  in  his  hand,  divided  her  foetus  into  seven 
parts,  and  again  made  each  of  these  parts  into  seven.  All  these  being 
in  one  part  of  the  foetus,  issued  from  the  womb  and  wept.  At  this 
conjuncture,  Paransesvara  (Mahadeva)  and  Parvati  were  passing  by 
for  amusement,  and  saw  them.  Parvati  spoke  thus  to  Paramesvara, 
'  If  you  love  me,  effect  Jhat  all  these  bits  of  flesh  may  become  severally 
sons.'  Mahesvara  made  them  all  of  the  same  form  and  age,  and  with 
the  same  ornaments,  and  gave  them  to  Gaurl  (Parvati),  saying,  'Let 
these  »be  thy  sons.'  Hence  in  all  the  hymns  addressed  to  the  Maruts, 
they  are  lauded  as  the  sons  of  Rudra ;  and  in  the  hymns  to  Rudra,  he 
is  praised  as  the  father  of  the  Maruts."11 

• 

11  On  R.V.  viii.  28,  5,  Sayana  has  the  following  note:  Atra  puratani  katha\ 
Indra-samanam  putram  ichhantyah  Aditer  garbhasya  kenachit  karanena  Indrena 
saptadhd  bhinnatvut  sa  garbhah  sapta-gaQatmako  'bhavat  \  tato  Marutah  sampannah\ 

VOL.  iv.  *  20 


306  TEXTS  FROM  THE  RIGVEDA 

R.Y.  i.  122,  1. — Pra  vah  pdntam  raghu-manyavo  'ndho  yajnam 
Rudraya  mllhushe  lharadhvam  \  d\vo  astoshi  a&urasya™  vlrair  ishudhyd 
iva  Maruto  rodasyoh  \  "Present,  ye  zealous  (priests),  to  the  bountiful 
Rudra,  the  draught  of  soma,  your  offering.  I  have  praised  him  with 
the  heroes  of  the  divine  Sky :  may  I  (with  my  prayer)  as  it  were  aim 
at  the  Maruts  in  heaven  and  earth." 

R.Y.  i.  129,  3. — Dasmo  hi  shma  vrishanam  pinvasi  tvacJiam  Team  chid 
yavlr  ararum  sura  martyam  parivrinalcshi  martyam  \  Indrota  tubhyam 
tnd  Dive  tad  Rudraya  sva-yasase  \  Mitrdya  vocham  Varundya  saprathah 
sumrilikdya  saprathah  \  "Thou  (Indra),  who  art  energetic,  fillest 
the  teeming  skin  (the  cloud  ?) :  thou,  hero,  hast  chased  away  every 
hostile  mortal,  thou  puttest  to  flight  the  mortal.  Indra,  I  have 
uttered  this  to  thee,  and  this  to  the  Sky,  and  to  Rudra,  who  derives 
his  renown  from  himself,  and  to  Mitra,  and  to  Yaruna  abundantly,  to 
the  very  gracious,  abundantly." 

R.Y.  ii.  1,  6. — Tvam  Agne  Rudro  asuro  maho  divas  tvam  sardho 
mdrutam  prilcshah  isishe  \  tvam  vdtair  arunair  ydsi  samgayas  tvam  Pushd 
vidhatah  pdsi  nu  tmand  \  "Thou,  Agni,  art  Rudra,  the  great  spirit 
(asura]  of  the  sky.  Thou  art  the  host  of  the  Maruts.  Thou  art  lord 
of  nourishment.  Thou,  who  hast  a  pleasant  abode,  movest  onward 
with  the  ruddy  winds.  Thou  [being]  Pushan,  by  thyself  protectest 
those  who  worship  thee." 

" sapta-ganah  vai  Marutah "  iti  s'ruteh  \  "Regarding  this  there  is  an  ancient  story. 
The  foetus  of  Aditi,  who  desired  to  have  a  son  equal  to  Indra,  having  been  for  some 
reason  divided  by  Indra  into  seven  parts,  it  became  formed  into  seven  troops.  Thence 
the  Maruts  were  produced.  For  a  Vedic  text  says,  "  The  Maruts  are  divided  into 
seven  troops."  Unless  the  reading  in  the  latter  of  these  two  passages  is  incorrect, 
it  will  be  observed  that  the  mother  of  the  Maruts  is  variously  represented  to  be  Diti 
and  Aditi.  As  in  the  first  of  the  two  texts  Diti  is  defined  as  the  mother  of  the 
Asuras,  the  reading  there  must  he  correct ;  and  the  Maruts  must  have  been  regarded  by 
the  writer  as  her  sons.  In  the  hymns  they  are  said  to  he  the  sons  of  Rudra  and 
Pris'ni ;  and  the  sons  of  the  Sky  and  Ocean.  See  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work, 
p.  147  f. 

12  Compare  with  divo  asurasya,  R.V.  i.  131,  1,  and  iii.  53,  7,  where  the  ^hrases 
Dyaur  asurah,  "the  divine  Sky,"  and  Divas  putraso  asurasya,  "the  sons  of  the 
divine  Sky,"  occur.  I  mn  indebted  to  Prof.  Aufrecht  for  an  explanation  of  the 
sense  of  this  half  verse.  He  holds  ishudhya  as  put  for  is/iudhyani,  the  1st  pers. 
sing,  of  the  imperative  of  the  root  ishudhy.  See  Dr.  Bollensen's  article  in^the 
Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  vol.  xxii.,  "Die  Lieder  des  Pariis'ara," 
p.  577,  where  other  instances  of  the  suffix:  ni  being  omitted  in  this  part  of  the  verb 
are  given. 


REGARDING  AGNI  AND  RUDRA.  307 

See  above  (p.  76  f.)  the  third  verse  of  this  hymn,  where  Agni  is  iden- 
tified with  Indra,  and  Vishnu,  irj  the  same  way  as  he  is  identified  with 
Rudra  and  Pushan  in  the  verse  before  us. — See  also  verses  4,  5,  and  7. 
Sayana,  in  his  commentary  on  this^rerse,  gives  two  derivations  of  the 
word  Rudra : 

Rud  duhkham  duhkha-hetur  vd  pdpddih  \  tasyi  drdvayitd  etan-ndmaJco 
devo'  si\  "  Rudro  vai  esha  yad  Agnir"  ity  adishv  Agneh  Rudra-saldena 
vyavahdrdt  \  yadvd  tva'm  'Rudrah  \  rauti  \  mam  anishtvd  nardh  duhkhe 
patishyanti  \  Rudras  tddriso  'si  \  "Rui  means  suffering,  or  sin,  etc.', 
which  causes  suffering.  Thou  (Agni)  art  the  god  so  called,  who  drives 
this  away  (rud-drdvayitd']  •  for  Agni  is  intended  by  the  word  Rudra 
in  such  passages  as  this,  '  He  who  is  Agni*  is  Rudra.'^  Or,  thou  art 
Rudra.  He  cries :  Not  worshipping  me,  men  will  fall  into  grief. 
Thou  art  such  a  Rudra,"  etc. 

R.Y.  ii.  33,  1  ff. — A  te  pitar  Marutdm  sumnam  etu  md  nah  sur- 
yasya  samdriso  yuyothdh  \  abhi  no  vlro  arvati  Icshameta  pra  jdyemahi 
Rudra  prajdbhih  \  2.  Tvd-dattebhih  Rudra  samtamebhihsatamhimdaslya 
bheshajebhih  \  vi  asmad  dvesho  vitaram  vi  amho  vi  amlvds  chdtayasva 
vishuchlh  \  3.  S'reshtho  jdtasya  Rudra  sriyd  'si  tavastam'as  tavasdm 
vajra-baho  \  parshi  nah  pdram  amhasah  svasti  visvdh  abliitlh  rapas* 
yuyodlii  \  4.  Md  tvd  Rudra  chuhrudhdma  namolhir  md  dushtutl  vri- 
shabha  md  sahutl  \  ud  no  vzrdn  arpaya  Iheshajebhir  bhishaktamam  tvd 
bhishajdm  srinomi  \  5.  HavimabJiir  havate  yo  havirbhir  ava  stomebhih 
Rudram  dishlya  \  ridudarah  suhavo  md  ntf  asyai  babhruh  susipro  rlradhad 
mandyai  \  6.  Ud  md  mamanda  vrishalho  marutvdn  tvaltshlyasd  vayasd 
nddJiamdnam  \  gTirinivalz  chhdydm  arapdh  aslya  d  vivdseyam  Rudrasya 
sumnam  \  7.  Kva  sya  te  iRudra  mrilaydkur  hasto  yo  asti  bheshajo  jald- 
sJtah  |  apabhartd  rapaso  daivyasya  abhi  nu  md  vrishalha  chakshamlthdh  \ 

8.  Pra  babhrave  vrishaNidya  svitlche  maho  mahlm  sushtutim  Iraydmi  \ 
namasyd    kalmalikinam   namolhir  grimmasi  tvesham  Rudrasya  ndmau 

9.  Sthirebhir  angairpuru^rupahugrobalhruhsukrebhihpipisehiranyaih  \ 
Isdndd  asya  Ihuvanasya  Ihurer  na  vai  u  yoshad  Rudrdd  asuryam  \   10. 
Arhan  bibharshi  sdyakdni  dhanva  arhan  nishkafn^yajatam  visvarupam  \ 

arltynn   idam    dayase   visvam   abhvafh  na  vai  ojlyo  Rudra  tvad  asti  \ 

* 

13  See  Dr.  Bollensen's  article  in  Benfey's  Orient  und  Occident,  ii.  474,  where  he  says 
ghrini  is  a  locatiye  or  instrumental.    Bohtlingk  and  Roth  judge  differently.    See  s.v, 

14  Compare  R.V.  vii.  100,  3,  above,  p.  87, 


308  TRANSLATION  OF  THE  THIRTY-THIRD  HYMN 

11  (A.  Y.  18,  1,  40  ;  T.  S.  iv.  5,  10,  3,  4).  Stuhi  srutam  garta-sadam 
yuvdnam  mrigam  na  bhlmam16  u/tihaknum  ugram  \  mrila  jaritre  Rudra 
stavdno  any  am  te  asmad  ni  vapantu  sendh  \  1*2.  Kumdras  chit  pitaram 
vandamdnam  prati  nandma  Rudra  upayantam  \  bhurer  ddtdram  satpatim 
grinishe  stutas  tvam  bheshajd  rtisi  asme  \  13.  Yd  vo  bheshajd  Marutah 
iuchini  yd  iamtamd  vrishano  yd  mayobhu  \  ydni  Manur  avrinlta  pita  nas 
td  safh  cha  yoscha  Rudrasya  vasmi  \  14  (V.  S.  16,  50 ;  T.  S.  iv.  5,  10,  4). 
Pari  no  hetih  Rudrasya  vrijyah16  (vrinaktu,  V'.  S".,  T.  S.)  pari  tveshasya 
durmatir  mahl  gdt  \  ava  sthird  maghavadbhyas  tanushva  mldhvas  tokdya 
tanaydya  mrila  \  15.  Eva  babhro  vrishabha  cliekitdna  yathd  deva  na 
hrinlshe  na  hamsi  \  havana-srud  no  Rudra  iha  bodhi  brihad  vadema  vidathe 
suvirdh  \ 

"  1.  Father  of  the  Maruts,  may  thy  blessing  come  (to  us) :  remove 
us  not  from  the  sight  of  the  sun.  May  the  hero  spare  our  horses:  may 
we,  Rudra,  increase  in  offspring.  2.  Through  the  auspicious  remedies 
conferred  by  thee,  Rudra,  may  I  attain  a  hundred  winters.  Drive  away 
far  from  us  enmity,  and  distress,  and  diseases,  to  a  distance.  3.  Thou, 
Rudra,  art  in  glory  the  most  eminent  of  beings,  the  strongest  of  the 
strong,  0  wielder  of  the  thunderbolt.  Carry  us  happily  across  our 
ralamity  :  repel  all  the  assaults  of  evil.  4.  Let  us  not,  Rudra,  provoke 
thee  by  our  prostrations,  by  our  unsuitable  praises,  vigorous  [deity], 
or  by  our  common  invocations.  Raise  up  our  heroes  by  thy  remedies  : 
I  hear  that  thou  art  the  greatest  physician  of  physicians.  5.  May  I 
with  hymns  avert  (propitiate)<-that  Rudra  who  is  invoked  with  praises 
and  oblations.  Let  not  him  who  is  mild,  easily-invoked,  tawny,  with 
a  beautiful  chin,  deliver  us  up  to  this  ill  will  [of  our  enemies].  6. 
The  mighty  [god],  attended  by  the  Marut,s,  has  gladdened  me  his 
suppliant  with  robust  health.  May  I,  free  from  injury,  obtain  [thy 
protection],  as  it  were,  shade  in  the  heat  [of  the  summer] :  may  I 
seek  the  blessing  of  Rudra.  1.  "Where,  Rudra,  is  that  thy  gracious 
hand  which  is  healing  and  restorative?  Removing  the  evil  which 
comes  from  the  gods,  spare  me,  thou  vigorous  [deity].  8.  I  jcTyfully 
send  forth  a  great  encomium  to  this  tawny,  vigorous,  luminous  god. 

15  Compare  similar  modes  of  speaking  about  Vishnu,  Indra,  Yaruna,  etc.,  above, 
p.  69  and  note  18. 

16  See  in  the  note  to  Roth's  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  p.  86,  other  instances  of 
similar  forms,  apparently  of  the  2nd  pers.  sing.,  standing  for  the  3rd  pers. 


OF  THE  SECOND  BOOK  OF  THE  EIGVEDA,  ETC.  309 

Reverence  the  fiery  [deity]  with  prostrations :  we  celebrate  the  glorious 
name  of  Rudra.  9.  "With  firm  limbs',  multiform,  fierce,  tawny,  he  has 
been  arrayed  with  bright  golden  (ornaments).17  Divine  power  can 
never  be  removed  from  Rudra,  the»lord  of  this  vast  world.  10.  Thou, 
fitly,  boldest  arrows  and  a  bow ;  fitly,  thou  [wearest]  a  glorious  neck- 
lace of  every  form  (of  beauty).  Fitly,  thou  j>ossessest  all  this  vast 
[world].  There  is  nothing,  Rudra,  more  powerful  than  thou.  11. 
Celebrate  the  renowned 'and  youthful  god,  mounted  on  his  chariot, 
terrible  as  a  wild  beast,  destructive,  and  fierce.  Be  gracious  to  thy 
worshipper,  Rudra,  when  praised:  may  thy  hosts  prostrate  some  one 
else  than  us.  12.  Even  a  boy,  when  his  father  approaches  and  salutes 
him,  makes  obeisance  to  him  in  return ;  [so}  0  Rudra,  I  praise  [thee], 
the  giver  of  much  [good],  the  lord  of  heroes.  Thou,  when  lauded, 
grantest  to  us  remedies.  13.  Those  pure  remedies  of  yours,  Maruts, 
those  which  are  salutary,  ye  strong  [gods],  those  which  are  beneficent, 
those  which  our  father  Manu  desired18 — those,  as  well  as  the  blessing 
and  favour  of  Rudra,  I  desire.  14.  May  the  bolt  of  Rudra  avoid  us  ; 
may  the  great  malevolence  of  the  impetuous  [deity]  depart  far  from  us. 
Unbend  thy  strong  [bows  so  as  not  to  strike]  thy  wealthy  worshippers. 
Dispenser  of  good,  be  gracious  to  our  children  and  descendants.  1^. 
0  tawny  and  vigorous  god,  so  taking  heed  of  us,  as  neither  to  be  in- 
censed against  us,  nor  to  injure  us — think  of  us  now,  Rudra,  hearing 
our  invocations ;  let  us  with  our  vigorous  men  utter  a  great  hymn  at 
the  sacrifice."  « 

R.  V.  ii.  34,  2. — Dytivo  na  strilhis  ehitayanta  Jchddmo  m  abhriydh  na 
dyutayanta  vrishtayah  \  Rudro  yad  vo  Maruto  rukma-vakshaso  vrislid 
'j'ani prisnyah  sukre*udhani  \  "Adorned  with  armlets,  [the  Maruts]  have 
shone  like  the  skies  with  their  stars,  they  have  glittered  like  showers 
from  the  clouds,  at  th?  time  when  the  prolific  Rudra  generated  you, 
0  Maruts,  with  jewels  on  your  breaSts,  from  the  shining  udder  of 
Prisni."  . 

R.  V.  ii.  38,  9. — Na  yasya  Indro  Varuno  na  Mitro  vratam  Aryamd 
na  minanti  Rudrah  \  na  ardtayas  tarn  idam  sr^sti  huve  devam  Savi- 

V  See  sukra-pis,  Mr.  viii.  11=E.V.  x.  110,  6;  and  Roth,  Erl.  See  the  fifth 
vol.  of  this  work,  p.  453  f.,  where  some  remarks  of  J)r.  Boliensen  (Journ.  Germ.  Or. 
Society,  xxii.  587  ff.)  are  quoted,  in  which  this  passage,  with  others,  is  adduced  to 
show  that  images  of  the  gods  were  common  in  the  Vedic  age. 

18  Compare  i.  114,  2,  above,  pp.  302  and  ^04. 


310  TEXTS  FROM  THE  PJGVEDA 

taram  namobhih  \  "  "With  prostrations  I  invoke  this  blessing  from  the 
god  Savitri,  whose  purpose  neither  Indra,  nor  Yaruna,  nor  Mitra,  nor 
Aryaman,  nor  Rudra,  nor  any  enemies  can  resist." 

In  the  next  text,  'rudra'  is  merely  an  epithet  of  Agni. 

R.  Y.  iii.  2,  5. — Agnim  sumndya  dadhire  purojandh  vdja-sravasam19 
iha  vrikta-barhishah  \  yata-sruchah  surucham  visva-devyam  rud/ramyajna- 
ndm  sddhad-ishtim  apasdm  \  "Men,  having  prepared  th'e sacrificial  grass, 
and  holding  ladles,  have,  to  obtain  his  blessiug,  placed  in  their  front 
Agni,  renowned  for  wealth,  the  brilliant,  acceptable  to  all  the  gods, 
the  terrible  (rudra},  who  fulfils  the  objects  of  sacrifices  and  rites." 

In  the  first  verse  of  the  hymn  next  quoted  also,  'rudra'  is  merely  an 
epithet  of  Agni.  In  verse  6,  on  the  other  hand,  Rudra  is  the  name 
of  a  god. 

R.  V.  iv.  3,  1. — A  vo  rdjdnam  adhvarasya  rudram  hotdrarh  satya- 
yajam  rodasyoh  \  Agnim  pura  tanayitnor  achittdd  hiranya-rupam  avase 
krinudhvam  \  6.  Kad  dhishnydsu  vridhasdno  Ague  lead  Vdtdya  pratavase 
sulhamye  \  parijmane  ndsatydya  kshe  Iravah  had  Agne  Rudrdya 
nri-ghne-°  \  (verse  7  is  quoted  above,  p.  78).  "  Before  the  thunderbolt 
[falls]  unawares,  call  to  your  succour  Agni,  the  terrible  (rudra)  king 
of  the  sacrifice,  the  invoker  in  both  worlds,  offering  genuine  worship, 
the  golden-formed.  ...  6.  Wilt  thou,  Agni,  -who  delightest  in  the 
altars,  wilt  thou  declare  [our  sin] 21  to  Yata,  the  energetic,  the  bestower 

19  This  word  is  explained  by  Sayana  in  this  place  as  —  manushyebhyah  preritannam, 
"who  has  sent  food  to  men,"  and  '6n  R..V.  vi.  35,  4,  as  =  vajair  balair  prasiddhah, 
"famed  for  force."  In  the  Nighantus  (ii.  7,  17)  two  senses  are  assigned  to  vaja, 
"food,"  and  "battle,"  and  to  fravas  are  ascribed  (ii.  7,  10)  the  meanings  "food," 
and  "wealth."  In  the  Nirukta  iv.  24  (where  R.V.  iv.  38,  5)(is  explained),  the  senses 
"praise"  or  "wealth"  are  attributed  to  the  latter  T?ord;  in  Nir.  ix.  10,  the  sense 
of  "praise" ;  in  Mr.  x.  3,  that  of  "food" ;  and  in  Nir.  xi.  9,  that  of  "renown." 
Bohtlingk  and  Roth  assign  to  vaja  the  senses  (1)  of  "swiftness,  spirit,"  (2)  "running 
a  race,  conflict,"  (3)  "prize  of  victory  in  a  race,  spoil,"  (4)  "gain,  reward,  valuable 
possession,"  etc.;  and  explain  the  compound  vaja-sravas,  "contending  in  a  race," 
comparing  it  with  vaja-srit,  to  which  they  ascribe  the,  same  meaning,  and  which  is 
explained  by  Sayaiia  in  R.V.  ix.  43,  5,  ss^sangrama-saranah,  "moving  in  battle." 

Prof.  Aufrecht  sees  no  reason  why  vajasravas  should  be  interpreted  differently  from 
vasusravas,  and  translate?'  it  "  renowned  for  power  or  wealth,"  comparing  gomad 
vajavat  sravas,  R.V.  i.  9,  7  ;  va/aya,  sr avase  ishe  cha,  vi.  17.  4  (vi.  1,  11) ;  ix.  67,  5  ; 
iv.  36,  9 ;  mahi  s'ravo  vajam,  viT  70,  5  ;  sa  vajam  darshi  sa  iha  sravo  dhah,  x.  69,  3  ; 
vajam  ukthyam,  x.  140,  1 ;  abhi  vajam  uta  s'ravah,  ix.  1,  4 ;  ix.  6,  3 ;  vajam  jeshi 
iravo  brihat,  ix.  44,  6;  ix.  63,  12;  ix.  87,  5. 

*°  Comp.  pitrusha-ghnam  in  i.  1 14, 10,  above,  p.  303.      21  See  the  preceding  verse. 


REGARDING  RUDRA  AND  OTHER  DEITIES.  311 

of  blessings,  the  circumambient,  the  truthful  ?  Wilt  thou  declare  it  to 
the  earth,  and  to  the  man-slaying  Etfdra?" 

K.V.  v.  3,  3,  quoted  and  translated  above,  p.  80. 

E.V.  v.  41,  2. — Te  no  Mitro  Varyno  Aryamd  "yur  Indrah  Ribhukshdh 
Maruto  jushanta  \  namobhir  vti  ye  dadhate  suvriktim  stomam  Rudrdya 
mllhushe  sajoshdh  \  "May  Mitra,  Varuna,  Aryaman,  Ayu,  Indra, 
Eibhukshan,  the 'Maruts,  be  favourable  to  us,  [and  to  those]  who, 
united  together,  offer  with  obeisances  hymns  and  praises  to  the  bounti- 
ful Eudra." 

E.V.  v.  42,  11. — Tarn  u  shtuhi  yah  svishuh  sudhanvd  yo  visvasya 
kshayati  bheshajasya  \  yakshva  mahe  saumanasdya  Rudram  namobhir 
devam  asuram  duvasya  |  ....  15.  JEsha  stpmo  mdrutam  sardho  achha 
Rudrasya  sunun  yuvanyun  ud  asydh  \  ityddi  \  "Praise  him  who  has 
excellent  arrows  and  bow,  who  commands  all  remedies.  "Worship 
Eudra  to  [obtain  his]  great  benevolence  :  with  prostrations  adore  the 

spiritual  deity 15.  May  this  hymn  ascend  to  the  troop  of 

Maruts,  to  the  sons  of  Eudra,  who  comport  themselves  as  youths,"  etc. 

E.V.  v.  46,  2  (V.S.  33,  48),  quoted  and  translated  above,  p.  80. 

E.Y.  v.  51,  13. —  Visve  devdh  no  adya  svastaye  vaisvdnaro  vasur 
AgniTi  svastaye  \  devdh  avantu  Ribhavah  svastaye  svasti  no  Rudrah  pdtu 
amhasah  \  "May  all  the  gods,  may  Agni,  the  beneficent,  worshipped 
by  all  men,  may  the  divine  Eibhus,  preserve  us  for  our  welfare.  May 
Eudra  bless  and  preserve  us  from  calamity." 

E.V.  v.  52,  16. — Pra  ye  me  bandhvesht  gum  vochanta  surayah  Prisnim 
vochanta  mdtaram  \  adha  pitaram  ishminam  Rudram  vochanta  sikvasah  \ 
"These  wise  and  powerful  [Maruts],  who,  when  I  was  inquiring  after 
their  kindred,  declared  t9  me  that  the  Earth,  Prisni,  was  their  mother, 
and  that  the  rapid  Eudra  was  their  father"  (see  above,  p.  306,  note  11). 

E.V.  v.  59,  8. — Mvndtu  Dyaur  Aditir  vltaye  nah  sam  ddnu-chitrdh 
ushaso  yatantdm  \  dchuchyavur  divyam^osam  ete  rishe  Rudrasya  Mando 
grindndh  \  "May  Dyau^  and  Aditi  provide  for  our  enjoyment:  may 
the  dawns,  glittering  with  moisture,  strive  [in  our  behalf].  These 
Maruts,  [the  sons]  of  Eudra,  when  lauded,  0  ,rishi,  have  caused  the 
celestial  treasure  to  drop  down." 

E.V.  v.  60,  5. — Ajyeshthdso  altanishthdsak  ete  sam  bhrdtaro  vdvridhuh 
saubhagdya  \  yuvd  pitd  svapdh  Rudrah  eshdm  sudughd  Prisnih  sudind 
Marudbhyah  \  ' '  These  brothers  (the  Maruts),  among  whom  there 


312  TEXTS  FROM  THE  EIGVEDA 

is  no  distinction  of  elder  and  younger  (comp.  R.  V.  v.  59,  6,  where 
also  these  epithets  occur),  have  •grown  to  prosperity.  Rudra,  their 
young  and  energetic  father,  and  the  prolific  Prisni,  [have  created] 
fortunate  days  for  the  Maruts."  * 

R.V.  vi.  16,  39. —  Ya  ugrah  iva  sarya-hd  tigma-iringo  na  vamsagah  \ 
Agne  puro  rurojitha  \  "Thou,  Agni,  who  art  fierce  (ugra\  like  an 
archer,  like  a  sharp-horned  bull,  hast  broken  down  castles." 

On  this  the  commentator  remarks:  "  JRudrb  vai  esha  yad  Agnir"  iti 
sr_uteh  |  Rudra-kritam  api  Tripura-dahanam  Agni-kritam  eva  iti  Agnih 
stuyate  \  "For  the  Yeda  says  that  'this  Agni  is  Rudra.'  It  is  here 
said  in  praise  of  Agni,  that  the  burning  of  the  Tripura  (or  the  three 
cities),  though  done  by  Rudra,  was  done  by  Agni."  Another  explana- 
tion of  the  commentator  is  that  Agni  was  present  in  Rudra's  arrow  on 
that  occasion.  All  this,  however,  is  merely  said  with  the  view  of 
bringing  the  Veda  into  harmony  with  later  stories. 

R.Y.  vi.  28,  7  (A.  V.  iv.  21,  7). — Prafdvatih  suyavasam  riiantih 
iuddhdh  apah  suprapdne  pilantlh  \  ma  vah  stenah  isata  ma  'ghasamsah 
pari  vo  hetih  Rudrasya  vrijydh  \  "Be  ye  (cows)  prolific,  consuming 
excellent  pasture,  drinking  pure  waters  in  a  good  pond.  May  no 
thief  or  wicked  man  have  power  over  you.  May  the  bolt  of,  Rudra 
avoid  you." 

R.Y.  vi.  49,  10. — Bhuvanasya  pitaram  glrlhir  dlhih  Rudraih  diva 
vardhaya  Rudram  aktau  \  brihantam  rishvam  ajaram  sushumnam  ridhag 
huvema  kavineshitdsah  \  "Magpify  with  these  songs,  the  father  of  the 
world,  Rudra,  by  day,  [magnify]  Rudra  by  night.  Let  us,  impelled 
by  the  poet,  severally  invoke  [him]  the  mighty,  the  exalted,  the  un- 
decaying,  the  beneficent." 

R.V.  vi.  50,  4. — A  no  Rudrasya  sunavo  namantdm  adya  hutaso  Tasavo 
adhrishtdh  \  ityadi  \  (verse  12  is  quoted  abovp,  p.  82).  "May  the 
sons  of  Rudra,  the  irresistible  Vasus  (or  gods),  invoked  to-day,  stoop 
down  to  us,"  etc v.  12  (translated  above,  p.  82). 

R.V.  vi.  66,  3. — Rudrasya  ye  rnilhushah  santi  putrah  yams  cJio  nu 
dddhrivir  lharadhyai  \  pide  hi  mdtd  maJio  main  sd  sd  it  Prisnih  subhve 
garlham  d  adhdt  |  ....  11.  Tarn  vridhantam  mdrutam  Ihrdjad-rishtlm 
Rudrasya  sunum  havasd  a  'iivdse  \  ityddi  \ — "Those  who  are  the  sons 
of  the  bountiful  Rudra,  and  whom  he  upholds  for  their  nourishment. 
For  the  mighty  mother  possessed  these  mighty  sons.  This  Prisni  was 


REGARDING  RUDRA  AND  OTHER  DEITIES.  313 

pregnant  for  an  illustrious  birth 11.  I  worship  with  invoca- 
tion this  growing  race  of  the  Mafuts,  with  shining  weapons,  the 
offspring  of  Rudra,"  etc/ 

R.V.  vi.  74,  1  if. — Somd-Rudrd  dharayetham  asuryam  pro.  vdm 
isJitayo  ''ram  asnuvantu  \  dame  dame  sttpta  ratnd  dadhdnd  sam  no  bhutam 
dvipade  sam  chatushpade  \  2  (A.  Y.  7,  42,  1).  jlomd-Rudrd  vi  vrihatam 
vishuchim  amwd  yd  no  gayam  dvivesa  \  are  bddhethdm  Nirritim  pardchair 
asme  bhadrd  sausravasdni  santu  \  3  (A.  V.  7,  42,  2).  Somd-Rudrd 
yuvam  etdni  asme  visvd  tanushu  bheshajtini  dhattam  \  ava  syatam  mun- 
chatam  yad  no  asti  tanushu  baddham  Itritam  eno  asmat  \  4.  Tigmd- 
yudhau  tigma-hetl  susevau  Somd  Rudrdv  iha  su  mrilatam  nah  \  pra  no 
munchatam  Varunasya  pdsdd  gopdyatam  nal}  sumanasyamdnd  \  "  Soma 
and  Rudra,  do  ye  grasp  divine  power.  May  oblations  in  abundance 
reach  you !  In  every  house,  bearing  with  you  seven  jewels,  be  favour- 
able to  our  bipeds  and  our  quadrupeds.  2.  Soma  and  Rudra,  drive  far 
away  that  disease  which  has  entered  into  our  abode.  Chase  Mrriti  far 
away  from  us.  May  we  have  excellent  renown.  3.  Soma  and  Rudra, 
infuse  into  our  bodies  all  these  remedies.  Remove  and  banish  from  us 
whatever  sin  we  have  done  which  attaches  to  our  bodies.  4.  Soma 
and  Ruxlra,  whose  weapons  are  sharp,  and  whose  bolts  are  piercing,  fye 
beneficent  and  favourable  to  us.  Deliver  us  from  the  noose  of  Varuna ; 
protect  us,  regarding  us  with  favour." 

R.V.  vii.  10,  4. — Indram  no  Agne  VasulMh  sajoshtih  Rudram  Rudre- 
bhir  d  vaha  brihantam  \  Adityebhir  Aditim  visva-janydm  Briliaspatim 
rikvabhir  visva-vdram  \  "  Agni,  united  with  the  Vasus,  bring  hither  to 
us  Indra;  with  the  Rudras  [bring]  the  powerful  Rudra,  with  tho 
Adityas  [bring]  Afliti,  who  is  acceptable  to  all,  and  with  the  bards 
[bring]  the  Brihaspati  who  grants  all  boons." 

R.V.  vii.  35,  6. —  .....  S'am  no  Rudro  Rudrebhir  jaldshah  .  .  .  . 
"May  the  healing  Rudra,  with  the  RTTdras,  be  favourable  to  us,"  etc. 

R.V.  vii.  36,  5. —  Yaipnte  asya  sakhyam  vayas  cha  namasvinah  sve 
ritasjja  dJidman  \  vi  priksho  bdbadhe  nribhih  stavdnah  idam  namo  Rudrdya, 
preshtham  \  "  Men  making  obeisance  in  their  9wn  place  of  sacrifice, 
sedk  by  worship  his  friendship,  and  life.  Lauded  by  men,  he  has 
distributed  food  amongst  them.  This  reverttce  is  most  dear  to  Rudra." 

R.V.  vii.  40,  5  (quoted  and  translated  above,  p.  85). 

R.V.  vii.  41,  1  (V.  S.  34,  34;   A.  V.  3,  16,   \}.—Prdtar  Agnim 


314  REMARKS  ON  THE  EPITHET  "SVAPIVATA." 

prdtar  Indram  havamahe  prdtar  Mitrd-  Varund  prdtar  Asvind  \  prdtar 
Ehagam,  Pushanam  Brahmanaspatim  prd,tah  Somam  uta  Rudram  huvema  \ 
"In  the  morning  we  invoke  Agni,  in  the  morning  Indra,  in  the  morn- 
ing Mitra  and  Yaruna,  in  the  morning  the  Asvins ;  in  the  morning  let 
us  invoke  Bhaga,  Pushan,  Brahman aspati,  Soma,  and  Rudra." 

R.Y.  vii.  46, 1  (Nirukta  x.  6). — Imdh  Rudrdya  sthira-dhamane  girah 
kshipreshave  devdya  svadhdvne22  \  ashdlhdya  sahamdndya  vedhase  tigmd- 
yudhdya  lharata  srinotu  nah  \  2.  Sa  hi  kshayend  kshamyasya  janmanah 
sdmrdjyena  divyasya  chetati  \  avann  avantlr  upa  no  duras  cJiara  anamlvo 
Rudra  jam  no  bhava  \  3  (Mrukta  x.  7). —  Yd  te  didyud  avasrishtd 
divas  pari  kshmayd  charati  pari  sd  vrinaktu  nah  \  sahasram  te  svapivdta™ 

22  Prof.  Roth  (Illust.  of  Nir.,  p.  135)  considers  the  word  svadhavat  to  signify 
"  independent,"  "  whose  glory  is  inherent,"  etc.,  and  refers  to  R.V.  vii.  20,  1 ;  vii. 
87,  2;  vii.  86,  4.     At  p.  40  f.  of  his  Illustrations  Roth  assigns  to  svadham  anu,  etc., 
the  sense  of  "  according  to  one's  own  determination,"  "  according  to  pleasure,"  and 
quotes  the  following  passages  where  it  has  this  sense,  viz. :  R.V.  i.  6,  4 ;  i.  33,  11 ; 
i.  81,  4;  ii.  3,  11 ;  iii.  47,  1 ;  vii.  78,  4 ;  and  viii.  20,  7.     On  svadha  see  also  Prof. 
Miiller's  Transl.  of  the  R.V.,  pp.  19-25. 

23  This  word  is  not  explained  in  the  printed  text  of  Sayana;   although  in  the 
"  Varietas  Lectionis,"  appended  to  his  preface,  Prof.  Miiller  notes  that  in  one  MS., 
B.  4,  svapivata  is  rendered  hy  jitaprana,  "he  by  whom  life  (or  breath)  is  conquered." 
Jn  the  Nirukta,  x.  7,  it  is  explained  by  svapta-vachana,  "thou  whose  words^are  very 
suitable  or  authoritative."     In  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  pp.  135  f.,  Prof. 
Roth  has  some  remarks  on  the  word,  which  I  translate:  "Svapivata  in  the  Pada  text 
is  divided  into  su-\-apivata,  and  is  consequently  to   be  derived  from  api-\-vat,  a 
compound,  which  is  often  found  in  the  R.V.,  viz.  in  vii.  3, 10,  api  kratum  suchetasam 
vatema ;  vii.  60,  6,  api  kratum  suchftasam  vatantah ;  i.  128,  2,  tarn  yajna-sadham 
api  vatayamasi ;  i.  165,  13,  manniani  chitrah  api  vatayantah;  x.  25,  1,  bhadram  no 
api  vataya  mano  daksham  uta  kratum  ;  x.  13,  5,  pitre  putraso  apy  avivatann  ritam  \ 
It  has  the  signification  of  '  learning  to  understand,'  '  appropriating  to  one's  self,'  and 
in  the%ausal  'to  teach  to  understand,'  agreeing  entirely  '.'ith  the  Zend  word  of 
similar  form,  which  as  yet  no  one  had  been  able  to  discover  in  Sanskrit.     The  word 
(svapivata)  thus  means  '  readily  understanding,  hearing,  accessible,  gracious.'    Yaska's 
explanation  appears  right,  and  Durga  has  misunderstood  it,  when  he  explains  the 
word  by  anatikramanlyajna  ('thou  whoce  command  cannot  be  transgressed')."    I  have 
to  remark,  however,  that  if  Yaska's  phrase  svapta-vachana  have  the  sense  I  have 
above  assigned  to  it  of  "  speaking  with  authority,"  (sc3  the  third  vol.  of  this  work, 
pp.  124,  127  f.,  and  elsewhere)  it  means  nearly  what  Durga  asserts.     Prof.' Roth, 
however,  must  have  taken  it  to  mean  "  thou  by  whom  words  (prayers)  are  readily 
received,  or  apprehended.'      Otherwise  it  could  not  harmonize  with  the  sense  he 
regards  as  the  right  one.    In  his  Lexicon,  s.v.  vat-\-api,  Prof.  Roth  adheres  to  'the 
meanings  assigned  to  the  compound  verb  in  his  "Illustrations,"  rendering  it  "to 
understand,  comprehend,"  and  in  the  causal  "to  cause  to  understand,  to  make  com- 
prehensible ";  and  assigning  to  the  words  bhadram  no  api  vataya  manah  in  x.  20,  1 
and  x.  25,  1,  the  sense  of  "awaken  in  u"  a  good  sense."     Prof.  Aufrecht  assigns  to 


TEXTS  REGARDING  RUDRA  AND  THE  RUDRAS.  315 

bheshajd  md  nas  tokeshu  tanayeshu  rlrishah  \  4.  Ma  no  vadhlh  Rudra  ma 
para  ddh  md  te  bhuma  prasitau  hilitasya  \  a  no  bhaj'a  barhishijlva-saihse'* 
yuyam  pata  svastibhih  sadd  nah  \  "  Present  these  songs  to  Rudra  with 
the  strong  bow,  and  swift  arrows,  >the  self-dependent  god,  unassailable, 
the  assailant,  the  disposer,  armed  with  sharp  weapons:  may  he  hear 
us.  2.  Through  his  power  he  perceives  th,e  terrestrial  race,  and 
through  his  universal  dominion  [he  perceives]  the  divine.  Protecting 
us,  approach  our  protecting  doors ;  Rudra,  remove  sickness  from  our 
offspring.  3.  May  that  shaft  of  thine  which  is  discharged  from  the 
sky,  and  traverses  the  earth,  avoid  us.  Thou,  who  art  easy  of  access, 
hast  a  thousand  .remedies.  Injure  us  not  in  our  children  and  descen- 
dants. 4.  Slay  us  not,  Rudra  ;  do  not  abandon  us ;  let  us  not  fall  into 
thy  net  whenthou  art  incensed.  Give  us  a  share  in  the  sacrifice  desired 
by  the  living.  Do  ye  always  succour  us  with  your  benedictions." 

R.V.  vii.  56,  1  (S.  V.  i.  433). — Ke  Im  vyalctdh  narah  sanlldh  Rudrasya 
marydh  adha  svasvdh  \  2.  Nakir  hi  eshdm  janumshi  veda  te  anga  vidre 
mitho  janitram  \  "Who  are  these  brilliant  heroes,  the  sons  of  Rudra, 
occupying  the  same  abode,  riding  on  excellent  horses  ?  No  one  knows 
their  births.  They  [themselves]  know  the  place  of  their  common 
production."  , 

R.V.  vii.  58,  5. — Tdn  d  Rudrasya  milhusho  vivdse  ityddi  \  "  I  wor- 
ship these  [sons]  of  the  bountiful  Rudra,"  etc. 

svapivata  the  sense  "  possessed  of  great  knowledge,"  from  su-\-apivata,  "intelligence, 
knowledge,"  which  again  comes  from  api-\-vat,'to  which  he  considers  that  the  proptr 
meaning  has  been  assigned  by  Prof.  Roth.  Suyana  explains  as  follows  the  texts  quoted 
above,  viz.  R.V.  vii.  3, 10 :  Apy  api  cha  kratum  karma  yojnanam  kartaram  va  suche- 
tasam  ssobhana-prajnana-yuktam  suprajnanam  putraih  va  iiatema  sambhajtnnahi  \ 
vanateh  sambhajanarthasya  varnantaragame  sati  rupam  \  "And  further  may  we  gain 
a  rite,  or  a  performer  of  sacrifices  possessed  of  good  intelligence,  or  a  very  intelligent 
son.  Van,  which  means  'to  divide'  (or  gain),  becomes  vat  by  the  alteration  of  a 
letter."  He  interprets  vii.  60,  6,  thus:  ^t  suchetasam  prakrishta-jnanavantam 
purusham  kratum  kartaram  karmanushthanavantam  vatanto  gachhantah  \  "going 
to  a  man,  a  performer  of  rites  possessed  of  eminent  intelligence."  The  verb  in  R.V. 
i.  128.,2,  is  thus  expounded:  aparitosham  sevamahe  "we  serve  till  we  are  satisfied."  ; 
and  in  i.  165,  13,  thus:  sampurnam  prapayantah,  "completely  bringing  to  us";  in 
x.  20,  1,  by  agamaya,  "cause  to  come";  in  x.  25,  1,  by  jamaya,  "cause  to  go";  in 
x.  13,  5,  by  sangamayanti,  "  cause  to  go  together." 

i4  This  word  appears  from  Bohtlingk  and  Roth'^  Lexicon  to  occur  twice  in  the 
R.V.,  viz.  in  i.  104,  6,  and  the  present  passage.  They  make  it  a  substantive,  signi- 
fying "  rule  over  the  living."  Benfey,  in  his  translation  of  i.  104,  6,  renders  the 
word  "  to  be  praised  among  men."  Sayana  has  there  kamayitavye,  "to  be  desired"; 
and  here  asaihsariiye,  which  means  the  same. 


316  TEXTS  OF  THE  RIGVEDA 

E.Y.  viii.  13,  20. — Tad  id  Rudrasya  chetati  yahvam  pratneshu  dM- 
tnasu  |  mono  yatra  vi  tad  dadhur  vichetasah  \  "  That  great  (manifesta- 
tion) of  Eudra  [or  the  terrible  (Indra)25]  is  perceived  in  the  ancient 
abodes,  and  on  it  the  wise  have  therefore  fixed  their  minds." 

R.Y.  viii.  20,  17. —  Yathd  Rudrasya  sunavo  dwo  va£anti  asurasya 
vedhasah  \  yuvdnas  tathd.-it  asat  \  "  As  the  youthful  sons  of  Eudra,  the 
wise  deity  of  the  sky,  desire,  so  shall  it  be." 

E.Y.  viii.  22,  13. —  .  .  .  .  Td  u  namobhir  imahe  \  14.  Tdv  id  doshd 
t&v  mhasi  subhas  pail  to,  ydman  rudra-vartanl™  \  md  no  martdya  ripave 
vdjinl-vasu  paro  rudrdv  ati  Tchyatam  \  "We  invoke  them  (the  Asvins), 
with  adoration,  (14)  at  evening  and  at  dawn,  and  on  their  path,  the  two 
lords  of  splendour,  proceeding  on  terrible  roads.  Do  not,  0  terrible 
(rudrau)  lords  of  swift  horses,27  abandon  us  to  our  mortal  enemy." 

E.Y.  viii.  29,  5.  (quoted  and  translated  above,  p.  90). 

E.Y.  viii.  61,  3. — Antar  ichhanti  tarn  jane  rudram  paro  mamshayd  \ 
grilhnanti  jihvayd  sasamZB  \  "  They  entreat  the  god  (Agni),  who  is 
terrible  (rudra)  beyond  all  thought,29  [to  enter]  among  the  people. 
"With  their  tongue  they  take  food  (or  seize  him  sleeping)." 

E.Y.  x.  64,  8. — Trih  sapta  sasrdh  nadyo  mahlr  apo  vanaspatin  parva- 
tfn  Agnim  utaye  \  Krisdnum  astrln  Tishyam  sadhasthe  d  Rudram 
Rudreshu  rudriyam  kavdmahe  \  "We  invoke  to  our  aid  in  the  assembly 
of  sacrifice,  the  three  times  seven  swift  rivers,  the  great  waters,  the 
trees,  the  mountains,  Agni,  Krisanu,  the  archers,  Tishya,  and  Eudra, 
among  the  Eudras,  and  possessing  their  character." 

25  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.  rudra,  hold  the  word  to  be  here  an  epithet  of  Indra. 
The  rest  of  the  hymn  is  addressed  to  him.  a 

26  This  word  rudra-vartaril  is  also  applied  to  the  As'vins  in  the  first  verse  of  this 
hymn,  and  in  R.V.  x.  39,  11.     Compare  krishnavartani  and  krishnadhvan  as  applied 
to  Agni.     See  the  fifth  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  212.  ,. 

27  This  is  the  sense  assigned  hy  BohjUngk  and  Roth  to  vajimvasu,    Sayana  renders 
it  by  annavasu  (R.V.  v.  74,  6),  annadhana  (x.  40,  12)  "rich  in  food."     Elsewhere 
he  also  takes  vajinl  for  food  or  oblation.  « 

Z8  This  word  is  given  ID  the  Nighantus,  2,  7,  as  signifying  food.  Sayana  tikes  it 
to  mean  "  sleeping,"  and  renders  the  last  clause  "  men  through  praise  sprung  from 
their  tongue,  catch  Agni  vvith  their  fingers "  (jihva-prabhavaya  stutya  gribhnanti 
grihnanty  angulibhih).  See  Roth's  Illustrations  of  Nirukta,  pp.  55  and  85  f. ;  ijlso 
R.V.  i.  51,  3  (where  Benfey  renders  sasena  "in  sleep");  iii.  5,  6;  iv.  5,  7 ;  iv.  7, 
7;  v.  21,4;  x.  79,  3. 

29  This  interpretation  is  confirmed  by  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.  manlsha,  who  refer 
to  R.V.  v.  17,  2,  as  another  passage  where  the  phrase  occurs. 


REGARDING  RTJDRA  AND  OTHER  DEITIES,  317 

E.V.  x.  65,  1  (quoted  and  translated  above,  p.  95). 

E.V.  x.  66,  3. — Indro  Vasulhih'paripdtu  no  gayam  Adityair  no 
Aditih  sarma  yachhatu  |"  Rudro  Rudrelhir  deyo  mrilaydti  nas  Tvashtd 
no  gndbhih  suvitdyajinvatu  \  "May  Indra  with  the  Vasus  preserve  our 
habitation ;  may  Aditi  with  the  Adityas  grant  us  protection.  May  the 
divine  Eudra  with  the  Eudras  be  gracious  to  us ;  may  Tvashtri  with 
the  wives  (of  the 'gods)  advance  us  to  prosperity." 

E.V.  x.  92,  5. — Pra'Rudrena  yayind  yanti  sindhavas  tiro  mahlm 
aramatim30  dadhanvire  \  yebhih  parijmd  pariyann  uru  jrayo  vi  roruvaj 
jathare  visvam  ukshate  |  ....  9.  Stomam  vo  adya  Rudrdya,  sikvase 
kshayad-vlrdya  namasd  didishtana  \  yebhih  sivah  svavdn  evaytivalhir 
divah  sishakti*1  &va-yasdh  nikdmalhih  \  "  The,  waters  flow  [impelled]  by 
the  hastening  Eudra,  and  have  spread  over  the  vast  earth ;  with  them 
the  circumambient,  shouting  god,  who  moves  round  the  wide  space 

[of  the  earth],  moistens  all  (that  is  contained)  in  its  womb ". 

9.  With  reverence  present  your  hymn  to-day  to  the  mighty  Eudra, 
the  ruler  of  heroes,  [and  to  the  Maruts]  those  rapid  and  ardent  deities 
with  whom  the  gracious  and  opulent  [Eudra],  who  derives  his  renown 
from  himself,  protects  us  from  the  sky." 

E.V.  x.  93,  4. — Te  gha  rdj'dno  amrita&ya™  mandrdh  Aryamd  Mitro 
Varunah  parijmd  \  lead  Rudro  nrindm  stuto  Marutah  Pushano  Bhagah  \ 
....  7.  Via  no  rudrd  chid  mrilatdm  Asvind  ityddi  \  "These  are  the 

30  This  word  occurs  in  different  parts  of  the  R.V.,  \vhere  it  is  variously  interpreted 
by  Sayana.     On  ii.  38,  4,  he  explains  it  by  anuparatih,   "never  resting,"  as  an 
epithet  of  Savitri ;  on  v.  43,  6,  as  an  epithet  of  gnu  (a  goddess),  a  samantad  ramama- 
naih  sarvatra  gantrlm  va,  "sporting  all  round,  or,  going  everywhere";  on  vii.  36,  8, 
similarly,  uparati-rahijfim,  "  having  no  rest,"  as  an  epithet  of  maJii,  the  earth ;  on 
vii.  42,  3,  as  meaning  the  ea'Hh   (bhumim) ;    on  vii.  1,  6,  as  signifying  brilliancy 
(dlptiK) ;  on  v.  54,  6,  as  aramanam  dhanudikam,  "object  of  enjoyment,  wealth,"  etc.; 
on  vii.  34,  21,  as  denotingfta  being  "of  perfect  intelligence,  or  whose  intelligence 
reaches  to  all  objects,"  (paryapta-buddhih  sgrva-vishaya-vyapi-buddhir  va)  spoken 
of  Tvashtri;  and  on  viii.  31,  12,  as  equivalent  to  alammatih  paryapta-stutih,  a  god 
"who  obtains  full,  or  complete,  worship,"  said  of  Pushan.    I  have  not  access  to  his 
commentary  on  x.  64,  15,  and  x.  92,  4,  5.     Bohtlingk  and  Roth  regard  Aramati 
in  all  these  passages  but  one  as  designating  either  "readiness  for  service,  obedience, 
devotion,"  or  "as  a  personification  of  religious  worship,  fer  active  piety."     In  viii. 
314*  12,  they  regard  it  as  signifying  "obedient,  pious."     I  cannot  see  that  any  of 
these  senses  except  that  of  earth  is  applicable  to  the^assage  before  us.     Or  Aramati 
may  here  be  an  epithet  of  the  earth. 

31  From  the  root  sach.     See  R.V.  i.  18,  2 ;  i.  56,  4 ;  and  v.  41,  20. 

32  Compare  amritasya  gopam,  R.V.  viii.  42,  2;  and  amritasya  patnlh,  iv.  5,  13. 


318         HYMN  OF  THE  RIGVEDA  REGARDING  THE  KES'IX. 

kings  of  immortality  who  gladden  us :  Aryaman,  Mitra,  Yaruna  the 
circumambient,  what  (shall  we  b'ay)  of  Rudra  celebrated  by  men, 
the  Maruts,  the  Pushans,  and  Bhaga?  .  .  .  .  7.  May  the  terrible 
(rudra)  AsVins  be  favourable  to  us, 'Veto. 

R.Y.  x.  125,  6  (A.  V.  4,  30,  5). — Aham  Rudrdya  dhanur  a  tanomi 
Irahma-dvishe  sarave  hantavai  u  ityddi  \  (Yach?33  speaks):  "I  bend  the 
bow  for  Eudra,  for  an  arrow  to  slay  the  hater  of  the  priest,"  etc. 

R.Y.  x.  126,  5. —  ....  Ugram  Marudlhih  E udram  huvema  ityadi  \ 
"•Let  us  invoke  the  terrible  Rudra  with  the  Maruts,"  etc. 

R.V.  x.  136,  1  (Nir.  xii.  26). — Kesl  agnim  kesl  visJiam  kesl  lilharti 
roda&l  |  kesl  visvam  svar  drise™  kesl  idam  jyotir  uchyate  \  2  |  munayo 
vdtarasandh  pisangd  vasatet  mala  \  vdtasydnu  dhrdjim  yanti  yad  devdso 
avikshata  \  3  |  unmaditdh  mauneyena  vdtdn  d  tasthimd  vayam  \  sarired 
(i.e.  iarlrd  id)  asmdkam  yuyam  martdso  abhi  pa&yaiha  \  4  |  antarikshena 
patati  vifad  rupd  'vachdkasat  \  munir  devasya  devasya  saukrityaya  sakhd 
hitah  |  5  |  Vdtasydsvo  VdyoTi  sakhd  atJia  deveshito  munih  \  ubhati  samu- 
drdv  d  ksheti  yas  cJia  purvah  utdparah  \  6  |  apsarasdm  gandhari'dndm 
mrigdndm  charane  charan  \  keslketasyavidvdn  sakhd  svddur  madintamah  \ 
7.  Vdyur  asmai  updmantJiat  pinashti  sma  kunannamd  \  kesl  visJiasya 
fldtrena  yad  Rudrendpibat  saJia  \  "  The  long-haired  [being]  sustains 
fire,  water,  and  the  two  worlds ;  he  is  to  the  view  the  entire  sky ;  he  is 
called  this  light.  2.  The  wind-clad  (i.e.  naked)  munis  wear  brown 
and  soiled  (garments) ;  they  follow  the  course  of  the  wind,  when  ye, 
0  gods,  have  entered  (into  them).  3.  Transported  by  (our)  impulses  as 
munis,  we  have  pursued  the  winds.  You,  0  mortals,  behold  our  bodies. 
4.  The  muni,  a  friend  fitted  to  gain  the  beneficent  aid  of  every  god, 
flies  through  the  air,  perceiving  all  forms.  $.  Tht  muni,  impelled  by 
the  gods,  the  steed  of  the  wind,  the  friend  of  Yayu,  dwells  in  both  the 
oceans,  the  eastern  and  the  western.  6.  Moying  in  the  path  of  the 
Apsarases,  the  Gandharvas,  anti  the  wild  animals,  the  long-haired 
being  is  aware  of  our  call,  and  a  sweet  and  gladdening  friend.  7. 
Yayu  agitated  for  him ;  the  long-haired  [being]  breaks  down  the 
things  which  are  unbending,  by  means  of  the  vessel  of  water  (visha) 
which  he  drank  along  with  Rudra."  ' 

Although  but  little  of  'this  hymn  has  reference  to  Rudra,  I  have 

33  See  note  27  in  p.  258  of  the  third  vol.  of  this  work. 

34  Kest  idam  sarvam  idam  abhivipasyati  \  — Nir.  xii.  26. 


REMARKS  ON  THE  KES'IN  OR  MUNI.  319 

quoted  it  entire  on  account  of  the  interest  it  possesses  in  another 
respect.  The  first  verse  is  explained  in  the  Nirukta  x.  26  ;  and  Prof. 
Roth,  in  his  Illustrations  of  that  work,  p.  164,  has  the  following  note 
on  the  subject  of  the  hymn :  "  The,  hymn,"  he  says,  "  shows  the  con- 
ception that  by  a  life  of  sanctity  (mauneyena,  verse  3)  the  muni  can 
attain  to  the  fellowship  of  the  deities  of  the  air,  the  Vayus,  the  Eudras, 

*j 

the  Apsarases,  aid  the  Grandharvas;  and,  furnished  like  them  with 
wonderful  powers,  can  travel  along  with  them  on  their  course.  Trans- 
cending even  this,  the  verse  before  us  says'that  the  beautiful-haired, 
the  long-haired,  that  is  to  say,  the  Muni,  who  during  the  time  of  his 
austerities,  does  not  shave  his  hair,  upholds  fire,  moisture,  heaven,  and 
earth,  and  resembles  the  world  of  light,  ideas  which  the  later  literature 
so  largely  contains.  Similarly  in  an  older  hymn,  E.  V.  vii.  56,  8,  an 
unusual  power  of  the  Muni  is  celebrated,  when  it  is  said  of  the  winds : 
S'ubhro  vah  sushmah  Jcrudhml  mandmsi  dhunir  munir  iva  sardhasya  dhrish* 
noh,  where  Sayan a  explains  the  word  manandd  munih  stotd  ('the  muni, 
from  the  root  "man,"  is  one  who  praises');  and  where  the  representa- 
tion above  given  is  in  any  case  to  be  found  in  its  germ." 

Although,  in  his  Lexicon  (see  s.v.  muni\  Prof.  Eoth  no  longer 
adheres  to  Say  ana's  explanation  of  the  word  muni,  as  applicable  to  the 
last-mentioned  passage,  where  he  thinks  it  may  mean  "pressure,  crowd, 
impulse,"  he  takes  the  same  view  as  formerly  of  the  hymn  before  us 
(x.  136),  and  defines  the  word  muni  as  signifying  "(one  who  is  driven 
by  an  inward  impulse),  a  person  inspired,  or  in  a  state  of  ecstacy; 
with  this  conception  of  the  word,"  he  proceeds,  "  agrees  what  is  said  of 
the  ecstacy  and  deification  of  the  muni  in  E.  Y.  x.  136,  2,  4,  deveshito 
munih  ('the  god-impelled  muni'),  v.  5,  and  what  is  related  in  the 
Aitareya  Brahmana  vi.  33,  of  the  Muni  Aitasa,  whom  his  son  regards 
as  mad.  Indro  munmdih  sakha,  'Indra  is  the  friend  of  munis,'  E.  V. 
viii.  17,  14."  I  subjoin  the  passage  o£the  Aitareya  Brahmana  vi.  33, 
here  referred  to : 

Aitasa-praldpam  samsati  \  Aitaso  ha  vai munir  "Agner  dyur" 35  dadarsa 
yajnasya  aydtaydmam  iti  ha  eke  dhuh  \  so'  bravlt  putrdn  " putrakdh 
' Arjier  dyur'  adarsam  \  tad  abhilapishydmi  \  yat  kincha  vaddmi  tad 
me  md  parigdta"  iti\  sa pratyapadyata  " etdfy  asvdh  dplavante pratlpam 

35  The  words  Agner  ayur  asi  tasya  te  occur  in  the  Kiithaka,  according  to  the  list 
of  initial  words  of  passages  given  by  Weber,  Ind.  Stud.,  in.  289. 


320  STORY  ABOUT  THE  MUM  AITAS'A. 

prdtisutvanam"  (A.  V.  xx.  129,  1)  iti  \  tasya  Abhyagnir  Aitasdyanah 
aitya  akdle  'bhihaya  mulcham  apyayrihndd  " adripat  nah  pita"  iti  \  tarn 
ha  uvdcha  "  apehy  alaso  bhur  yo  me  vdcham  avadhih  \  satdyum  gam  aka- 
rishyam  sahasrdyum purusham\pdpiskthdm  te pro/dm  karomiyo  ma  ittham 
asakthdh"  iti  \  tasmdd  dhur  "  Alhyagnayah  Aitasdyanah  Aurvdndm 
papishthdh"  iti  \  "He  repeats  the  Aitasa-pralapa.  The  Muni  Aitasa 
beheld  (i.e.  received  a  revelation  of)  the  '  Agner  ayuh'  (' Agni's  life,' 
etc.),  which,  some  say,  renders  the  sacrifice  efficacious.36  He  said  to 
his  sons,  '  Sons,  I  have  seen  "  Agni's  life  ;"  and  will  speak  of  it.  Do 
not  fail  to  attend  to37  what  I  say.'  He  then  obtained  (by  revelation) 
the  verse  beginning  etdh  asvdh,  etc.  Abhyagni,  of  the  family  of  Aitasa, 
came  unseasonably,  and  stopped  his  mouth,  saying  '  our  father  is  mad.' 
His  father  said,  'Go,  become  destitute  of  energy,38  thou  who  hast 
stopped  my  words.  I  should  otherwise  have  made  kine  live  a  hundred 
years,  and  men  a  thousand.  Since  thou  hast  so  done  violence  to  me,  I 
make  thy  offspring  most  degraded.  Hence  they  say  that  the  Abhyagnis 
of  the  family  of  Aitasa  are  the  most  degraded  of  all  the  Aurvas." 

Compare  Professor  Kuenen's  remarks  on. the  possible  original  sense 
of  the  Hebrew  word  nabi,  "  prophet,"  in  his  Historisch-Kritisch 
Onderzoek,  ii.  3,  and  also  pp.  16  (note  3),  and  19  (note  6). 

The  allusion  in  the  7th  verse  of  the  hymn  before  us  to  Rudra  drink- 
ing water  (visha}  may  possibly  have  given  rise  to  the  legend  of  his 
drinking  posion  (visha). — See  above,  p.  50. 

R.V.  x.  169,  1. — Mayobhu:*  vdto  alhivdtu  usrdh  urjasvatir  oshadhlr 
arisantdm  \  plvasvatlr  jiva-dhanydh  pilantu  avasdya  padvate39  Rudra 
mrila  \  "May  the  wind,  causing  prosperity,  blow  upon  our  cows.  Let 
them  consume  invigorating  plants ;  let  them  drink  (waters)  rich  and 
life-sustaining :  Rudra,  be  gracious  to  our  walking  sources  of  food  " 

(compare  vi.  28,  7,  above,  p.  312). 

f 

38  Prof.  Haug  renders  ayatayamam,  "  which  should  remove  all  defects  from  the 
sacrifice";  and  Prof.  Weber,  who,  in  his  review  of  Dr.  Haug's  translation,  Indische 
Studien,  ix.  177  ff.,  dissents  from  many  of  the  translator's  renderings,  expresses  here 
no  difference  of  opinion,  see  p.  304. 

37  "Weber  here  differs  from  Haug's  rendering  of  parigata  by  "do  not  scorn  me," 
and  translates  iibergehet  (ilberhbret  mir  dies  nicht]  was  ich  aueh  sagen  mag,  which  is 
also  the  sense  assigned  in  BohtHngk  and  Roth's  Lexicon ;  and  has  been  given  by  me. 

38  Haug  translates,  "Become  infected  with  leprosy";  "Weber,  "become  destitute 
of  energy." 

39  Pavad  avasam  gavah  \  — Nir.  i.  17. 


V.S.  TEXT  REGARDING  RTJDRA  AND  AMBIKA.  321 

SECT.  II. — Passages  relating  to  Rudra  in  the   Vajasaneyi  recension  of 

the  iohite  Yq'ur-  Veda. 
,  4 

I  now  proceed  to  quote  from  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita  the  principal 

texts  which  it  contains  relative  to  iludra. 

Vaj.  S.  3,  57  ff. — Esha  te  Rudra  tihdgah  saha  svasrd  Ambikayd  tarn 
jushasva  svdhd  \  esha  te  Rudra  bhagah  dkhus  te  pcsuhio  \  58.  Ava  Rudram 
adlmahy  ava  devam  tryambakam  \  yathd  no  vasyasas  Icarad  yathd.  nah 
sPeyasas  karad  yathu  no  vyavasdyaydt  \  59..,  Bheshajam  asi  bheshajam 
gave  'svuya  purushdya  bheshajam  \  sukham  meshdya  meshyai  \  60 
(=R.  V.  vii.  59,  12;  Taitt.  S.  i.  8,  6,  2).  Tryambakam  yajdmahe 
sugandhim  pushti-vardhanam  \  urvarukam  iva  bandhandd  mrityor  mu- 
kshlya  ma  'mritdt  \  tryambakam  yajdmahe  sugandhim  pativedanam 41 1 
urvarukam  iva  bandhandd  ito  mukshlya  ma  'mutah  \  61  (T.  S.  i.  8,  6,  2). 
JEtat  te  Rudra  avasam  tena  paro  Mujavato  atlhi  \  avatata-dhanvd  pindkd-t 
vasah  kritti-vdsdh  ahimsan  nah  sivo  'tihi  \  62.  Trydyusham  Jamadagneh 
Kasyapasya  trydyusham  \  yad  deveshu  trydyusham  tad  no  astu  trydyusham  \ 
63.  S'ivo  ndmd  'si  svadhitis  te  pita  namas  te  astu  md  md  himsih  \  nivarta- 
ydmy  dyushe  annddydya  prajanandya  rdyasposhdya  suprajdstvdya  suvlr- 
ydya  \ 

"This  is  thy  portion,  Rudra,  with  thy  sister  Ambika;  accept  iS 
with  favour,  may  it  be  fortunate  (svahd).  This  is  thy  portion ;  thy 
victim  is  a  mouse.  58.  "We  have  satisfied  Rudra;  we  have  satisfied 
the  god  Tryambaka,42  that  he  may  make  us  most  opulent,  most  happy, 
that  he  may  prosper  us.  59.  Thou  art  a*  medicine,  a  medicine  for  kine 
and  horses,  a  medicine  for  men,  a  [source  of]  ease  to  rams  and  ewes. 
60.  We  worship  Tryambaka,  the  sweet-scented,  the  increaser  of  pro- 
sperity. May  I,  like  a  cusumber  [severed]  from  its  stem,  be  freed  from 

40  The  Taittiriya  Br.  i.  6,  \Q,  4,  has  only  the  first  part  of  this  verse :  Esha  te  Rudra 
bhagah  saha  svasra  Ambikaya  :  then  follow  *the  words :  ity  aha  \  S'arad  vai  asya 
Ambika  svasa  \  taya  vai  esha  hinasti  |  "  He  says,  '  This  is  thy  portion,  Rudra,  with 
,thy  sister  Ambika.'  His  sister  Ambika  is  the  autumn;  with  her  he  smites  (or  kills)," 
etc.  The  commentator  on  the  passage  before  us  (of  the  Vaj.  S.)  says  in  reference  to 
this  that  Ambika  kills  by  taking  the  form  of  Autumn,  and  producing  diseases,  etc. 
(S'arad-rupam  prapyajar-  [qu.  ?  jvar-]  adikam  utpadya  tafn  nirodhinam  hantf). 

4\'Compare patividya,  "the  acquisition  of  a  wife,"  in  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  4,  2,  7. 

42  S.  P.  ii.  6,  2,  9. — Ambika  ha  vai  nama  asya  svasi.  \  taya  'stja  esha  saha  bhagah\ 
tad  yad  asya  esha  striya  saha  bhagas  tasmat  Tryambako  nama  \  "He  has  a  sister 
called  Ambika,  with  whom  he  has  this  share  :  and  since  he  has  this  share  along  with 
a  female  (strT),  he  is  called  Tryambaka"  (?'.«„ Stryambaka). 

VOL.   IV.  *  21 


322  THE  S'ATAKUDRIYA. 

death,  not  [severed]  from  immortality.  We  worship  Tryambaka,  the 
sweet-scented,  who  bestows  on  us  husbands. &  Like  a  cucumber 
[severed]  from  its  stem,  may  I  be  released  from  this  [world],  not 
[severed]  from  that  [world].  61.  T.his,  Rudra,  is  thy  provision;  with 
it  depart  beyond  the  Mujavat,  with  thy  bow  unbended,  and  concealed 
from  view,  clothed  with  a  skin,  without  injuring  us,  gracious,  cross 
over.43  62.  Let  us  have  a  triple  life,  the  triple  life  df  Jamadagni,  the 
triple  life  of  Kasyapa,  the  triple  life  which''  exists  among  the  goda. 
63.  Thou  art  gracious  (siva)  by  name;  the  thunderbolt44  is  thy  father. 
Eeverence  be  to  thee  :  destroy  us  not.  I  clip  thy  hair,  thee  [0  sacri- 
ficer],  that  thou  mayest  live,  have  food  to  eat,  the  power  of  procreation, 
the  possession  of  wealth,  abundant  offspring,  and  eminent  prowess."45 

The  next  passage  which  I  shall  quote  is  the  famous  S'atarudriya,  a 
prayer,  which  is  referred  to  in  three  passages  qu'oted  above  from  the 
Mahabharata,  pp.  186,  193,  and  199.  It  is  translated  and  annotated 
by  Prof.  Weber  in  his  Indische  Studien,  ii.  32  ff.  The  text  there 
translated,  and  which  is  given  in  the  preceding  pp.  26  ff.,  is  that  of 
the  Upanishad  bearing  the  name  of  S'atarudriya. 

Vajasaneyi  Samhita,  xvi.  1  ff.  (  =  Taitt.  S.  iv.  5,  1,  1  ff.). — Namas  te 
Rudra  many  we  uto  te  ishave  namah**  \  bdhubhydm  uta  te  namah  \  2.  Td 
te  Rudra  siva  tanur  aghora  'pupa-kusim  \  tayd  nas  tanvd  (tanuvd,  T.  S.) 
santamayd  grisantdbhichdkasihi  \  3.  Yum  ishum  girisanta  haste  bibkanhi 
astave  \  swum  giritra  turn  kuru  md  himslh  purusham  jagat  \  4.  S'ivena 
vachasa  tvti  girisuchha  vadumasi  \  yuthd  nah  sarvam  ij '  jag  ad  ayakslimam 
sumandh"  asat  \  5.  Adhy  avochad  adhivaktd  prathamo  daivyo  bhishak] 
ahlmscha  sarvdnjambhayansarvdschaydtudhunyo  'dhardcMh  pardsuvais  \ 
6.  Asau  yas  tdmro  arunah  uta  babhruh  sumangalah  \ye  chainaih  Rudruh 
abhito  diTcshu  srituh  sahasraso  'vaishdm  hedah  Imahe  \  7.  Asau  yo  'vasar- 

*2*  This,  the  Commentator  says,  is  spoken  by  virgins  walking  round  the  fire. 

43  See  the  second  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  351  f.,  and  note  138,  where  the  com- 
ments of  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  (ii.  6,  2,  17)  on  thp  passage  before  us  are  quoted. 

44  Such  is  the  sense  assigned  to  svadhiti  in  the  Nighantus,  2,  20. 

45  The  commentator  says  that  the  first  half  of  this  verse  is  addressed  to  a  razor, 
and  the  second  half  is  supposed  to  be  spoken  by  the  razor  to  the  person  to  whose 
head  it  is  to  be  applied.     He  translates  the  words  nivartayamy  ayushe,  etc.,  by""  I 
shave  thee  that  thou  mayest  live^"  etc. 

46  The  Taitt.  S.  inserts  here  tiamas  te  astu  dhanvane,  "reverence  be  to  thy  bow." 

47  Sumanah-sabde  pum&tvam  arsham  \  Comm. 

48  These  last  two  words  are  omitted  in  the  Taitt.  S. 


THE  S'ATARUDRIYA,  323 

pati  riilagrlvo  vilohitah  \  utainam  gopdh  adrisrann  adrisrann  udahdryah^ 
sa  drishfo  mridaydti  nah  \  8.  Namti  'stu  nlla-grivdya  sahasrdkshdya 
mldhushe  \  atJio  ye  asya  satvdno  aham  telhyo  'karam  namah  \  9.  Pramuncha 
dhanvanas  ham  ubhayor  drtnyor  jy'im  \  ydscha  te  haste  ishavah  para  ta 
bhagavo  vapa50  \  10.  Vijyam  dhanuh  *kapardino  visalyo  lanavdn  uta  \ 
anesann  asya  ydh  ishavah  dbhur  asya  nishangadhih  \_-thih,  T.  S.]  |  11. 
Yd  te  hetir  mldhushtama  haste  labhuva  te  dhanuh  \  tayd  'smdn  visvatas 
tvam  ayaJcshmayd pari  bhujk51  \  12.  Pari  te  dhanvano  hetir  asmdn  vrinaktu 
visvatah  \  atho  yah  ishudhis  tava  are  asmad  nidhehi  tarn  \  13.  Avatatyce 
dhanush  tvam  sahasrdksha  sateshudhe  \  nislrya  salydndm  mukhd  sivo  tihh 
sumanuh  bhava  \  14.  Namas  te  dyudhdya  andtatdya  dhrishnave  \  ubhd- 
Ihyam  uta  te  namo  bdhubhyam  tava  dhanvan-e  \  15  and  16  (=E,.V.  i. 
114,  7,  8,  see  above  p.  303).  17.  Namo  hiranyabdhave  sendnye  disdncha 
pataye  namo  namo  vrikshebhyo  harikesebhyah  pasundm  pataye  namo 
namah  sashpinjardya  tvishlmate  pathlndm  pataye  namo  namo  harikesuya 
upavltine  pushtdnam  pataye  namah  \  18.  Namo  babhlusdya  vyddhine 
'nndndm  pataye  namo  namo  Bhavasya  hetyai  jagatdm  pataye  namo  namo 
Rudrdya  dtatdyine  (dtatdvine,  T.  S.)  kshetrdndm  pataye  namo  namah 
sutdya  ahantyai  (ahantydya,  T.  S.)  vandndm  pataye  namah  \  19.  Namo 
rohitdya  sthapataye  vrikshdndm  pataye  namo  namo  bhuvantaye  vdriras-j 
kritdya  oshadhindm  pataye  namo  namo  mantrine  vdnijdya  kakshdndm 
pataye  namo  namo  whchairghoshdya  dkrandayate  pattlndm  pataye  namah  \ 
20*.  Namah  kritsndyatayd  (kritsnavltdya,  T.  S.)  dhdvate  satvandm  pataye 
namo  namah  sahamdndya  nivyddhine  dvyudhinlndm  pataye  namo  namo 
nishangine  kakubhdya  stendndm  pataye  namo  namo  nicherave  parichardya 
aranydndm  pataye  namah  \  21.  Namo  vanehate  parivanchate  stdyundm 
pataye  namo  namo  ^nishangine  ishudhimate  taskardndm  pataye  namo 
namah  srikdyibhyo  (srikdvibhyo,  T.  S.^jighdmsadbhyo  mushnatdm  pataye 
namo  namo  'simadbhyo  ncJctam  charadbhyo  mkrintdndm  (prakrintdndm, 
T.  S.)  pataye  namah  \  22.  Namah  uslmshine  girichardya  kulunchdndm 
pataye  namo  namah  ishuma^bhyo  dhanvdyibhyascha  vo  namo  namah  dtan- 
vdnebhyb  pratidadhdnebhyascha  vo  namo  namah  dyachhadbhyo  'syadbhyas- 
cha  vo  namah  \  23.  Namo  visrijadbhyo  vidhyadbhyai  cha  vo  namo  namah 

•» 
19  The  Taitt.  S.  adds  here  utainam  visva  bhutani,  "nnd  all  beings  have  seen  him." 

50  The  T.  S.  introduces  here  verse  13  of  the  Vaj.  S. 

51  The  T.  S.  inserts  the  14th  verse  here,  and  there  are  similar  transpositions  else- 
where, o 


324  THE  S'ATARUDRIYA. 

svapadbhyo  jdgradbhyas  cha  vo  namo  namah  baydnebhyah  dslnelhyascha 
vo  namo  namas  tishthadbhyo  dhd'vadbhyascha  vo  namah  \  24.  Namah 
sabhdbhyah  sabhdpatibhyascha  vo  namo  namo  'svebhyo  'svapatibhyascha  TO 
namo  namah  dvyddhinlbhyo  vividhyvntlbhyascha  vo  namo  namah  ugand- 
gbhyas  trimhatlbhyas  cha  vo  namah  I  25.  Namo  ganebhyo  ganapati- 
bhyascha  vo  namo  namo  vrdtebhyo  vrdtapatibhyascha  vo  namo  namo 
gritsebhyo  gritsapatibhyascha  vo  namo  namo  virupebhyo  visvarupebhya£cha 
vo  namah  \  26.  Namah  sendbhyah  sendnibhyascha^vo  namo  namo  rathibhyo 
'rathebhyascha  vo  namo  namah  kshattribhyah  sangrahltrilhya£cha  vo  namo 
ncfmo  mahadbhyo  arbhakebhyascha  (kshullakebhyas  cha,  T.  S)  vo  namah  \ 
27.  Namas  takshabhyo  rathakdrebhyascha  vo  namo  namah  kuldlebhyah 
karmdrebhyascha  vo  name  namo  nishddebhyah  punjishthelhya£  cha  vo 
namo  namah  &vanilhyo  mrigayulhyascha  vo  namah  \  28.  Namah  svabhyah 
svapatibhyascha  namo  Bhavdya  Rudrtiya  cha  namah  S'arvdya  cha  Pasu- 
pataye  cha  namo  mlagrlvaya  cha  sitikanthdya  cha  \  29.  Namah  Icapardine 
cha  vyupta-kesdya  cha  namah  sahasrdkshdya  cha  satadhanvane  cha  namo 
girisaydya  (giriidya,  T.  S.)  cha  sipimshfdya  cha  namo  mldhushtamaya 
cha  ishumate  cha  \  30.  Namo  hrasvdya  cha  vdmandya  cha  namo  brihate  cha 
varshlya.se  cha  namo  vriddhdya  cha  savridhe  (samvridhvane,  T.  S.)  cha 
namo  'grydya  prathamdya  cha  \  31.  Namah  dsave  cha  ajirdya  cha  namah 
siglvrydya  (sighriydya,  T.S.)  cha  slbJiydya  cha  namah  urmydya  cha  avasva- 
nydya  cha  namo  nddeydya  (srotasydya,  T.  S.)  cha  dvlpyaya  cha  \  32.  Namo 
jyeshthdya  cha  kanishthdya  cha  namah  purvajdya  cha  aparajdya  cha  namo 
madhyamdya  cha  apagalbhdyawha  namo  jaghanydya  cha  litdhnydya  cha  \ 
33.  Namah  sobhydya  cha  pralisarydya  cha  namo  ydmydya  cha  kshemydya 
cha  namah  slokydya  cha  avasdnydya  cha  nama  unaryaya  cha  hhalydya 
cha\  34.  Namo  vanydya  cha  kakshydya  cha  namah  srd'cdya  chapratisravdya 
cha  namah  dsushendya  cha  dsurathdya  cha  namah  surtiya  cha  avabhedine 
(avabhindate,  T.  S.)  cha  \  35.  Namo  bilmine  cha  kavachine  cha  namo 
varmine  cha  varuthine  cha  namah  srutdya  cha  srutasendya  cha  namo 
dundubhydya  cha  dhananydya  cha  \  36.  Namo^dhrishnave  cha pramrisdya 
cha™  namo  nishangine  cha  ishudhimate  cha  namas  tikshneshave  cha  djudhine 
cha  namah  svdyudhdyfl,  sudhanvane  cha  \  37.  Namahsrutydyachapathydya 
cha  namah  kdtydya  cha  nlpydya  cha  namah  kulydya  cha  sarasydy^  cha 
namo  nddeydya  (nddydya,T.  S.)  cha  vaisantdya  cha  \  38.  Namah  kupydya 
cha  avatydya  cha  namo  vidhrydya  cha  dtapydya  namo  meghydya  cha 
52  The  T.  S.  adds  here  wmo  dutaya  cha  prahitaya  cha. 


THE  S'ATARUDRIYA.  325 

vidyutydya  cha  namo  varshydya  cha  avarshydya  cha  \  39.  Namo  vdtydya 
cha  reshmydya,  (reshmiydya,  T,  S.)  cl-a,  namo  vdstavydya  cha  vdstupdya 
cha,  namah  Somdya  cha  Hudrdya  cha  namas  tdmrdya  cha  arundya  cha  \ 
40.  Namah  sangave  (sangdya,  T.  S  )  pasupataye  cha  namah  ugrdya  cha 
bhlmdya  cha  namo  agrevadhdya  cha  durevadhdya  cha  namo  hantre  cha 
hariiyase  cha  namo  vrikshebhyo  hari-kesebhyo  namas  tardy  a  \  41.  Namah 
sambhavdya  (samtihave,  T.  S.)  cha  mayobhavdya  (mayobhave,  T.  S.)  cha 
namah  sankardya  cha  rhayaskardya  cha  natnah  sivdya  cha  sivatardya  cha  \ 

42.  Namah  pdrydya  cha  avdrydya  cha  namah  pratarandya  cha  uttarandya 
cha53  namas  tlrthydya  cha  kulydya  cha  namah  sashpydya  phenydya  cha  \ 

43.  Namah  sikatydya  cha  pravdhydya  cha  namah  kimsildya  cha  kshayandya 
cha  namah  kapardine  cha  pulastaye  cha  namah  irinydya  cha  prapathydya 
cha  |   44.  Namo  vrajydya  (grihydya,  T.  S.)  cha  goshthydya  cha  namas 
talpydya  cha  gehydya  cha  namo   hridayydya  (hradayydya,  T.  S.)  cha 
niveshydya  cha  namah  kdtydya  cha  gahvareshthdya  cha  \   45.   Namah 
sushkydya  cha  haritydya  cha  namah  pdmsavydya  cha  rajasydya  cha  namo 
lopydya  cha  ulapydya  cha  namah  urvydya  cha  survydya  (surmydya,  T.  S.) 
cha  |  46.  Namah  par ndy a  (parnydya,  T.  S.)  cha  parnasaddya  cha  namah 
udguramdndya  (apagurumdndya,  T.  S.)  cha  abhighnate  cha  nama  dkhidate 
cha  prakhidate  cha  namah  ishukridbhyo  dhanushkridbhyas  cha  vo  namo 
namo  vah  kirikebhyo  devdndm  hridayebhyo  namo  vichinvatkebhyo  namo 
viksh-inatkebhyo   (vikshlnakebhyo,    T.  S.)   namah   dnirhatebhyah^  \    47. 
Drape  andhasaspate  daridra  (daridran,  T.  S.)  mlalohita  \   dsdm  pra- 
jdndm  eshdm  pasundm  md  bher  md  ro,y  mo  cha  nah  kinchandmamat  \ 
48  (  =  R.Y.  i.    114,    1).      49.    Fa  te  Rudra  £ivd  tanuh  sivd  visvdhd 
bheshajl  \  sivd  rutasya  bheshajl  tayd  no  mrida  jlvase  \   50  (=R.V.  ii. 
33,  1455).    51.  Mldhushtama  sivatama  sivo  nah  sumandh  bhava  \  parame 
vrikshe  dyudham  nidhdya  krittim  vasdnah  dchara  pindkam  bibhrad  dgahi  \ 
52.    Vikiridra  (vikirida.tT.S.}  vilohita  namas  te  astu  bhagavah  \  yds  te 
sahasram  hetayo  'nyam  asmad  nivapaitiu  tdh  \   53.  Sahasrdni  sahasraso 
(sahasradhd,  T.  S.)  bdhvos  (bdhuvos,  T.  S.)  tava  hetayah  \  tdsdm  Isdno 
bhag avail  par dchlnd  mukhd  kridhi\  54.  Asankhydtd  sahasrdni  (sahasrdni 

53  The  T.  S.  here  adds,  namah  ataryaya  cha  alatyaya  cfia. 

5"'  The  T.  S.  here  adds,  namah  amivatkebhyah. 

55  Instead  of  mahl  gat,  the  concluding  words  of  £he  first  half  of  the  verse,  as  it 
stands  in  the  R.V.,  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita  has  aghayoh,  "of  the  malicious."  The 
T.  S.  introduces  here  verses  corresponding  to  those  in  R.V.  i.  114,  2,  7,  8,  10 ;  ii.  33, 
11,  14. 


326  TRANSLATION  OF 

sahasraso,  T.  S.)  ye  Rudrdh  udhi  bhumydm  \  teshdm  sahasra-yojane  ava 
dhanvdni  tanmasi  \  55.  Asmin  mc,haty  arnave  antarikshe  Bhavdh  adhi  \ 
tesham  ityddi  \  56.  Nllagrlvdh  sitikanfhdh  divam  Rudrdh  updsritdh  \ 
teshdm  ityadi  \  57.  Nllagrivdh  sitikafithdh  S'arvdh  adhah  Icshamdchardh  \ 
tesJidm  ityddi  \  58.  Ye  vrikshesku  sashpinjardh  riilagnvdh  vilohitdh  \ 
teshdm  ityddi  \  59.  Ye  bhutdndm  adhipatayo  visikhdsah  kapardinah  \ 
teshdm  ityddi  \  60.  Ye  pathdm  pathirakshasah  (pat/*irakshayah,  T.  S.) 
ailabriddh  dyuryudhah  (yavyydhah,  T.  S.)  |  teshdm  ityddi  \  61.  Ye 
tlrthdni  pracharanti  srikduastdh  (srikdvanto,  T.  S.)  nishanginah  \  teshdm 
ityddi  \  62.  Ye  anneshu  vividhyanti  pdtreshu  pilato  jandn\  teshdm  ityddi  \ 
63.  Ye  etdvantascha  bhuydmsas  cha  diso  Rudrdh  vitasthire  \  teshdm 
ityddi  \  64.  Namo  'stu  Rudrebhyo  ye  dim  yeshdm56  varsham  ishcnah  \ 
tebhyo  dasa  prdchlr  dasa  dakshindh  ddsa  pratlchlr  dasa  udlchir  dasa 
urdhvdh  \  tebhyo  mamo  astu  te  no  avantu  te  no  mridayantu  te  yam  dvishmo 
yas  cha  no  dveshti  tarn  eshdm  (vo,  T.  S.^jambhe  dadhmah  (dadhdmi,  T.  S.)| 
65.  Namo  ''stu  Jludrebhyo  ye  antarikshe  yeshdih  vdtah  ishavah  \  tebhyo 
dasa  ityddi  \  66.  Namo  'stu  Rudrebhyo  ye  prithivyaih  yeshdm  annam 
ishavah  \  tebhyo  dasa  ityddi  \ 

"  Reverence,  Hudra,  to  thy  wrath,  and  to  thy  arrow.  Reverence  to 
both  thy  arms.  2.  Shine  upon  us,  dweller  in  the  mountains,  with  that 
blessed  body  of  thine  which  is  auspicious,  not  terrible,57  and  which  does 
not  betoken  harm.  3.  The  arrow,  0  dweller  in  the  mountains,  which 
thou  bearest  in  thy  hand  to  discharge,  make  it,  0  lord  of  the  mountains, 
auspicious ;  do  not  slay  men  and  cattle.  4.  "With  auspicious  words  we 
supplicate  thee,  dweller  in  the  mountains,  that  all  our  men  and  cattle 
may  be  healthy  and  cheerful.  5.  The  deliverer,  the  first  divine 
physician,  hath  interposed  for  us.  Destroying  all  serpents,  strike  down 
and  drive  away  all  Yatudhams  (female  goblins).  6.  We  deprecate 
from  us  the  wrath  of  that  auspicious  deity  who  is  copper-coloured, 
ruddy,  and  brown,  and  of  thosj  Rudras  who  in  thousands  surround 
him  on  all  sides.  7.  May  he  who  glides  away,  blue-necked  and  red- 
coloured,  and  whom  cowherds  and  female  drawers  of  water5?,  have 
seen, — may  he,  when  seen,  be  gracious  to  us.  8.  Reverence  to  the 

56  The  T.  S.  inserts  here  the  words  annam  vato. 

57  Compare  the  passage  quoted  from  the  Mahabharata,  above,  p.  204,  near  the  foot. 

58  »persons  -y^ho  are  destitute  of  initiation  in  Vedic  rites"  (Vedokta-samskara- 
Amafi), — Comm. 


THE  S'ATARUDRIYA.  327 

blue-necked,  to  the  thousand-eyed,  to  the  bountiful;  and  to  his 
attendant  spirits  I  offer  reverence.,  9.  Loosen  the  string  from  both 
ends  of  thy  bow ;  and  throw  away,  0  divine  being,  the  arrows  which 
are  in  thy  hand.  10.  May  the  bow  of  the  god  with  braided  hair  be 
stringless,  and  his  quiver  contain  ppintless  shafts.  His  arrows  have 
perished,  and  his  sword-sheath  is  empty.  11.  That  shaft,  0  most 
bountiful,  that  b#w  which  is  in  thy  hand,  wit*h  it,  rendered  innocuous, 
do  thou  protect  us  on  «very  side.  12,  May  the  shaft  from  thy  bow 
avoid  us  in  every  direction;  and  deposit  trly  quiver  far  from  us.  13. 
"Unbending  thy  bow,  0  thousand-eyed,  and  thousand-quivered,  and 
blunting  the  points  of  thy  arrows,  be  gracious  and  kind  to  us.  14. 
Reference  to  thy  violent  weapon,  unstrung,  to  both  thy  arms,  and  to 
thy  bow.  (Verses  15  and  16  correspond  nearly  with  E.  V.  i.  114,  7, 
and  8.  See  above,  p.  304.)  17.  Reverence  to  the  golden-armed  leader 
of  armies,  to  the  lord  of  the  regions,  to  the  green-haired  trees,  to  the 
lord  of  beasts,59  who  is  yellow  like  young  grass,  to  the  radiant,  to  the 
lord  of  roads,  the  yellow-haired,  the  wearer  of  the  -sacrificial  cord,  to 
the  lord  of  the  full-fed,  (18)  to  the  brown-coloured,  to  the  piercer, 
to  the  lord  of  food.  Reverence  to  the  weapon  of  Bhava,  to  the  lord  of 
things  moving,  to  Rudra  with  the  bended  bow,  to  the  lord  of  the  fields, 
to  the  innoxious  charioteer,  to  the  lord  of  the  forests,  (19)  to  the  r?d 
architect,  to  the  lord  of  trees,  to  the  being  who  stretches  out  the  worlds, 
who  affords  deliverance,  to  the  lord  of  plants,  to  the  observant  merchant, 
to  the  lord  of  bushes,  to  the  loud-shouting  lord  of  foot-soldiers  who  causes 
his  foes  to  shriek,  (20)  to  him  who  runs  in  full  stretch,  to  the  lord  of 
spirits,  to  the  conqueror,  to  the  piercer,  to  the  lord  of  armies  which  wound, 
to  the  towering  wiolder  of  a  sword,  to  the  lord  of  thieves,60  to  the  robber, 

59  This,  "Weber  thinks,  must  originally  have  meant  "  the  lord  of  sacrificial  victims." 

60  On  this  the  Commentator  has  the  following  apologetic  remarks :  Rudro  lilaya 
choradi-rupam  dhatte  \  yadva  Rudrasya  jagad-atmakatvnch  choradayo  Rudrah  eva, 
dheyah  \  yadva  stenadi-sarire  jivesvara-rupena  Rudro  dvidha  tishthati  \  tatrajlva- 
rupam  stenadi-sabda-vachyafy  \  tad  'isvara-rudra-rupam  lakshayati  \  yatha  sakJia- 
ffram  vhandrasya   lakshakam   \    kirn   bahuna  \    lakshyartha-vivakshaya    mantreshu 
laukikah  sabdah  prayuktah  \    "  Rudra  in  sport  assumes  the  forms  of  thieves  and 
such  like  persons.     Or,  since  Rudra  is  the  soul  of  the  w»rld,  thieves,  etc.,  are  to  be 
thought  of  as  being  Rudras.     Or,  Rudra  abides  in  two  ways,  as  life  and  as  lord,  in 
the  bodies  of  thieves,  etc.     Then  his  character  as  lif«  is  denoted  by  the  words  thieves, 
etc. ;  and  that  points  to  his  character  as  Rudra  the  lord,  just  as  the  end  of  a  branch 
points  to  the  moon.     But  why  enlarge  further  ?    Common  words  are  employed  in  the 
sacred  texts  to  intimate  the  sense  which  is  pointed  to." 


328  TRANSLATION  OF 

to  the  prowler,  to  the  lord  of  woods,  (21)  to  the  cheater,  to  the  deceiver, 
to  the  lord  of  pilferers,  to  the  bearer  of  the  sword  and  quiver,  to  the 
lord  of  robbers,  to  those  armed  with  thanderbelts,  to  the  murderous,  to 
the  lord  of  stealers,  to  those  who  carry  swords,  to  those  who  prowl  by 
night,  to  the  lord  of  plunderers;  (t22)  to  him  who  wears  a  turban,  who 
frequents  the  mountains,  to  the  lord  of  robbers,  to  you  who  have 
arrows,  and  to  you  who 'nave  bows,  to  you  with  bended  bows,  and  you 
who  fit  your  arrows  on  the  string,  to  you  who  jdraw  the  bow,  and  to 
you  who  shoot,  (23)  to  you  who  discharge,  and  to  you  who  pierce, 
to  you  who  sleep  and  you  who  wake,  to  you  who  lie  and  you  who 
sit,  to  you  who  stand  and  you  who  run,  (24)  to  the  assemblies,  and  to 
you  the  lords  of  assemblies,  to  horses,  and  to  you  the  lords  of  horsee,  to 
you  the  hosts  which  wound  and  pierce,  and  to  the  goddesses  who  have 
excellent  troops,  and  who  are  destructive,  (25)  to  the  troops,  and  to  you 
the  lords  of  troops,  to  the  companies,  and  to  you  the  lords  of  companies, 
to  the  rogues,  and  to  you  the  lords  of  rogues,  to  you  who  are  ill-formed, 
and  to  you  who  have  all  forms,  (26)  to  armies,  and  to  you  the  leaders 
of  armies,  to  you  who  ride  in  chariots,  and  to  you  without  chariots,  to 
you  the  charioteers,  and  to  you  the  drivers  of  horses,  to  you  the  great,  and 
to  you  the  small,  (27)  to  you  the  carpenters,  and  to  you  the  chariot- 
rAakers,  to  you  the  potters,  and  to  you  the  blacksmiths,  to  you  the 
Nishadas,  and  to  you  the  Punjisthhas,  to  you  the  leaders  of  dogs,  and 
to  you  the  huntsmen,  (28)  to  dogs,  and  to  the  masters  of  dogs,  to 
Bhava,61  and  to  Rudra,  and  to  S'arva,  to  Pasupati,  to  Kllagrlva,  and  to 

61  Prof.  "Weber  has  the  following  note  on  verse  28  of  his  translation  of  the  S'ata- 
rudriya  in  his  Indische  Studkn,  ii.  37 :  "  Bhava  is  variously  explained,  sometimes 
as  the  'existent,'  'eternal'  (bhavaty  eva  na  kadachid ,api  na(bhav atf],  sometimes  as 
the  producer  of  everything  (bhavaty  asmin  tarvam),  so  that  according  to  the  latter 
explanation  he  is  the  exact  opposite  of  '  S'arva,'  the  destroyer :  and  possibly  the 
term  (Bhava)  has  been  formed  with  the  view  of  propitiating  the  terrible  god  by  a 
favourable  name.  "When  both  words  ap'pear  in  verses  55  and  57  as  additional  names 
of  the  Rudras,  they  are  no  doubt  transferred  to  them  from  their  master,  since  the 
name  Bhava  in  particular  will  not  apply  well  to  them. '  According  to  the  S'atap.  Br. 
i.  7,  38  (dating  certainly  from  a  period  when  Rudra  had  already  been  identified  with 
Agni),  both  words  (see  also  Ind.  St.  i.  132,  140)  are  appellations  of  Agni, — Bhava 
being  that  which  was  usual  among  the  Bahikas,  and  S'arva  the  one  prevailing  amc ng 
the  Prachyas  (and  so  among  the  Kos'ala-videhas,  for  example).  As  we  meet  with 
the  word  S'arva  in  the  well-known  passage  of  the  Vendidad,  Fargard  x.,  p.  342," 
(S'aurva  in  the  Zend,  see  Spiegel's  translation,  p.  176,  and  his  Commentary,  i,,  p.  285, 
and  Justi's  Handbuch  s.v .)  "  we  should  rather  have  expected  that  S'arva  would  have 


THE  S'ATARUDRITA.  329 

S'itikantha,  (29)  to  him  with  the  braided  hair,  and  to  him  with 
the  shaven  hair,  to  him  with  a  ^thousand  eyes,  to  him  with  a 
hundred  bows,  to  the  ^dwelle*  in  the  mountains,  to  S'ipivishta,62 
to  the  most  bountiful,  to  him  who  has  arrows,  (30)  to  the  short,  and 
to  the  dwarf,  to  the  great,  and  to  hjm  who  has  arrived  at  a  mature 
age,  to  the  old,  to  the  coetaneous,  to  the  chief,  and  to  the  first,  (31) 
to  the  swift  (or  jpervader),  and  to  the  moving,  to  him  who  abides 
in  the  swift,  and  in  »the  flowing  waters,  and  to  him  who  dwells  in 
billows,  and  in  tranquil  waters,  and  in  riters,  and  on  islands,  (32) 
to  the  eldest,  and  to  the  youngest,  to  the  first-born,  and  to  the 
last-born,  to  the  middlemost,  to  him  who  is  not  full-grown,  to  the 
lowopt,  to  him  who  exists  at  the  roots  of  trees,  (33)  to  him  who 
lives  in  the  magical  city  Sobha  (?),  to  him  who  exists  in  incantations, 
to  him  who  exists  in  punishment,  and  in  prosperity,  to  the  renowned, 
to  the  endmost,  to  him  who  exists  in  the  soil,  and  in  the  threshing 
floor,  (34)  in  the  woods  and  in  the  bushes,  in  the  form  of  sound,  and 
in  echo,  to  him  who  has  fleet  armies  and  swift  chariots,  to  the  hero, 
and  to  the  splitter,  (35)  to  the  helmeted,  to  him  with  cotton- quilted 
cuirass,  with  iron  mail,  and  with  armour,  to  him  who  is  renowned  and 
has  a  renowned  army,  to  him  who  exists  in  drums,  and  in  resounding 
blows,  (36)  to  the  impetuous,  to  the  assailant,  to  the  bearer  of  a  swofft 
and  a  quiver,  who  carries  swift  arrows,  who  wields  weapons,  and  has 
excellent  weapons  and  a  good  bow,  (37)  to  him  who  dwells  in  path- 
ways, and  roads,  and  rough  (or  desert)  places,  and  the  skirts  of  moun- 
tains, and  watercourses,  and  lakes,  and  rivers,  and  ponds,  (38)  and 
in  wells,  and  pits,  and  in  bright  clouds,  and  in  sunshine,  in  clouds, 
in  lightning,  in  rain,  in  fair  weather,  (39)  in  wind,  in  storm,  to  the 
dweller  in  houses,  to  the  protector  of  houses,  to  Soma,  and  to  Rudra, 
to  the  copper-coloured,  to  the  ruddy,  (40)  to  the  bringer  of  prosperity, 
to  Pasupati,  to  the  fierce  (ugra}  and  4;he  terrible,  to  him  who  kills  in 

been  the  name  current  among  the  Bahlkas.  It  is  difficult  to  decide  whether  hoth 
appellations  actually  belonged  at  first  to  Agni,  and  not  to  Eudra.  But,  generally 
speaking,  the  contrary  appears  to  me  to  be  more  credibly,  because  in  the  hymns  of 
theJlig-veda  a  peaceful,  and  not  a  destructive,  character  is  predominatingly  ascribed 
to  Agni.  JFurther,  both  words  are  brought  directly  into  connexion  with  the  lightning 
in  A.V.  x.  1.  Bhavasarvau  asyatam  papakrite  devahetim"  This  text  is  quoted  a 
few  pages  further  on. 

«2  E.V.  vii.  99,  7 ;  and  vii.  100,  6,  above,  pp.  86-88,  and  Appendix  on  p.  88. 


330  TRANSLATION  OP 

front,  and  who  kills  from  afar,  to  the  slayer,  to  the  excessive  slayer, 
to  the  green-haired  trees,  to  the(.deliverer,  (41)  to  the  source  of  pro- 
sperity, to  the  source  of  happiness,  to. the  cavser  of  prosperity  (sanka- 
rdya),  to  the  causer  of  happiness,  to  the  auspicious  (siva)  and  the  very 
auspicious,  (42)  to  him  who  exists  beyond  and  on  this  side,  to  him  who 
crosses  over  to  and  fro,  to  him  who  exists  in  fords  and  river-banks, 
in  young  grass,  and  in  i"oam,  (43)  who  exists  in  gravel  and  in  streams, 
in  stony  ground,  and  in  habitable63  places,  to  £he  god  with  spirally- 
braided  hair,  to  him  with  .smooth  hair,64  who  exists  in  barren  land,  and 
in  frequented  roads,  (44)  among  herds,  in  cow-pens,  in  beds,  in  houses, 
in  the  heart,  in  whirlpools  (or  in  hoar-frost),  and  in  rough  (or  desert) 
places,  who  abides  in  abysses,  (45)  in  dry  things  and  in  green  things,  in 
dust,  in  moisture  (or  dust),'in  inaccessible  places,  in  creepers,  in  the  earth 
and  deep  under  the  earth.  46.  Reverence  to  the  leaf,  and  to  him  who  is 
in  the  fall  of  the  leaf,  to  the  threatener,  to  the  slayer,  to  the  vexer  and 
the  afflicter,  to  you  who  make  arrows  and  who  make  bows,  to  you  the 
sprinklers,  to  the  hearts  of  the  gods,65  to  the  discerners,  to  the  destroy- 
ers, and  to  the  indestructible.  47.  0  thou  who  chasest  away,  who  art 
lord  of  the  soma-juiee,  who  art  poor,66  who  art  blue  and  red,  do  not 
crush,  do  not  destroy67  these  [our]  offspring,  or  these  cattle,  and  let 
riothing  of  ours  be  sick.  48  (=E.Y.  i.  114,  1).  49.  That  we  may 
live,  be  gracious  to  us  with  that  body  of  thine  which  is  propitious, 
which  is  propitious  and  healing  on  all  days,  which  is  propitious  and 
heals  disease.  50  (=R.V.  ii.  33,  14.  See  above,  p.  309).  51.  Most 
bountiful,  most  gracious,  be  gracious  and  benevolent  to  us.  Placing  thy 
weapon  on  the  remotest  [or,  highest]  'tree,  approach,  clad  in  a  skin,68 

•  '• 

63  Or,  "in  a  place  with  still  water." — Comm.         r 

64  This  is  the  rendering  of  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth.     See  "Weber's  Ind.  Stud.,  ii.  41, 
note.    The  Commentator  on  the  Vaj.  S.  gives  the  following  alternative  explanation : 
Pulastaye  agre  tishthati  pulastih  .  .  v  .  yadva  purshu  sarlreshu  astih  satta  yasya 
sa  pulastih  sarvantaryairii  \ 

65  Agni,  Vayu,  and  Aditya  are  meant,  according  (to  the  Commentator,  and  the 
S'atap.  Br.  ix.  1,  1,  23.  , 

66  Daridra.     The  Commentator  explains  this  as  meaning  "without  any  connexion 
with  others,  from  being  wrihout  a  second"  (nishparigraho  'dvitlyatvaf).     Prof.  Roth 
(Lexicon)  proposes  to  render  the  word  by  "roving  about,"  and  Prof.  "Webei  by 
"  splitter."  i 

67  Ma  bher  ma  rob.     See  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.  ruj,  where  bheh  is  said  to  come 
from  bhid,  not  bhl. 

68  See  V.  S.  3,  61,  above,  p.  322. 


THE  S'ATARUDRIYA.  331 

come,  holding  thy  bow.  52.  0  deity,  who  avertest  wounds  [or,  shootest 
arrows],  and  art  ruddy  in  hue,  reverejice  be  to  thee.  May  thy  thousand 
shafts  smite  some  one  else  thai/  us.  53.  Thousands  of  thousands  of 
shafts  are  in  thy  hands.  0  god,  do  thou,  the  lord,  avert  their  points 
[from  us].  54.  We  unbend  a  thousand  leagues  (yojana)  away  the  bows 
of  those  unnumbered  thousands  of  Rudras  who  are  upon  the  earth.  55. 
Above  this  great 'atmospheric  ocean  there  exist  Bhavas.  We  unbend 
their  bows  a  thousand, leagues  away.  56.  Rudras  with  blue  necks  and 
white  throats  occupy  the  sky.  We  unbend,  ^etc.  57.  S'arvas  with  blue 
necks  and  white  throats  frequent  [the  regions]  beneath  the^earth.  We 
unbend,  etc.  58.  Of  those  [deities]  with  a  colour  like  young  grass, 
with  blue  necks  and  ruddy  hue,  who  [live]  in  trees,  we  unbend,  etc. 
59.  Of  those  lords  of  beings  who  are  without  locks  of  hair,  and  of  those 
whose  hair  is  spirally-braided,  we  unbend;  etc.  60.  Of  those  who  are 
guardians  of  roads,  givers  of  nourishment,  who  fight  for  life,  we  un- 
bend, etc.  61.  Of  those  who  frequent  the  fords,  with  weapons  in  their 
hands,  and  swords,  we  unbend,  etc.  62.  Of  those  who  pierce,  in  the 
midst  of  their  meals,  men  who  are  drinking  in  vessels,  we  unbend,  etc. 
63.  Of  those  Rudras  who,  so  many  [as  we  have  described]  and  yet  more 
numerous,  occupy  the  regions,  we  unbend,  etc.  64.  Reverence  to  the 
Rudras  who  [live]  in  the  sky,69  of  whom  rain  is  the  arrows.*  To  them 
[I  hold  out]  ten  [fingers]  to  the  east,70  ten  to  the  south,  ten  to  the 
west,  ten  to  the  north,  and  ten  upwards.  To  them  be  reverence :  may 
they  protect  us,  may  they  be  graciou^  to  us.  We  consign  to  their 
teeth  the  man  whom  we  hate,  and  who  hates  us.  65.  Reverence  to 
the  Rudras  who  [live]  in  the  Atmosphere,  of  whom  the  wind  is  the 
arrows.  To  them  £1  hold  out]  ten  [fingers],  etc.,  etc.  66.  Reverence 
to  the  Rudras  who  [live]  upon  the  earth,  of  whom  food  is  the  arrows. 
To  them  [I  hold  out]  ten  [fingers],  etc.,  etc." 

Many  of  the  epithets  in  this  S'aterudriya  are  not  found  in  other 
books ;  and  it  is  difficult,  and  perhaps  of  little  importance,  to  discover 
their  ,real  sense.  Others,  as  the  reader  will  have  observed,  are  of  the 

most  fantastic  character. 

i 

^  The  T.  S.  inserts  here,  "  whose  food  is  the  wind." 

'°  Pragabhimukhah  angufih  kurve  iti  seshah  |  .  .  .*,  anjalim  baddhva  sarva-dikshu 
namaskaromi  I  Comm. 


332  TEXTS  FROM  THE  ATHARVAVEDA 

SECT.  III. — Passages  relating  to  Rudra,  Bhava,  S'arva,  etc.,  from 
the  AtKarva-veda. 

A.  V.  ii.  27,  6. — Rudra  jaldsha-lheshaja  nlla-sikhanda  karma-krit  \ 
prdsam  pratipraso  jahi  arasdm  krinu  oshadhe  \  "Rudra,  who  hast  heal- 
ing remedies,  who  hast  dark  locks,  who  art  the  performer  of  works, 
destroy  the  food  of  him-  who  seeks  to  take  ours ;  m^ke  it  savourless, 
0  plant!"  ,  ,. 

A.  Y.  iv.  28,  1. — BhavarS'arvau  manve  vdm  asya  vittam  yayor  vtim 
i'dam  pradisi  yad  virochate  \  yav  asyesdthe  dvipado  yau  chatushpadas  tau 
no  munchatam  amhasah  \  2.  yayor  abhyadhve  uta  yad  dure  chid  yau 

viditav  ishubhritdm  asishthau  \  yav |  3.  sahasrdkshau  vritrahana 

huve  'ham  duregavyutl  stuvann  emy  ugrau  \  ydv |  4.  ydv  drebhdte 

bahu  sdkam  agre  pro  ched  a&rdshtam  alhilhdm  janeshu  [  yav |  5. 

yayor  vadhdd  napapadyate  ItascJiana  antar  deveshuta  mdnusheshu  \ 

yav |  6.  yah  Jcrityd-Jcrid  mula-lcrid  ydtudhdno  ni  tasmin  dhattaih 

vajram  ugrau  \  yav |  7.  adhi  no  brutam  pritandsu  ugrau  sam 

vajrena  srijatam  yah  Mmldln  \  staumi  Bhava-S'arvau  ndthito  johavlmi  tau 
no  munchatam  amhasah  \ 

1.  " 0  Bhava  and  S'arva,  I  reverence  you;  have  regard  to  this  (your 
\Forshipper),  ye  under  whose  control  is  all  this  which  shines :  ye  who 
are  lords  of  this  two-footed  and  four-footed  (creation),  free  us  from 
calamity.  2.  Te  to  whom  belongs  all  that  is  near  and  even  all  that 
is  remote,  who  are  known  as  the  most  skilful  shooters  among  all 
archers:  ye  who  are  lords-,  etc.  (as  in  v.  1).  3.  Ye  thousand-eyed 
slayers  of  enemies,  I  invoke  you ;  I  go«on  praising  you,  ye  fierce  gods, 
whose  domain  extends  far  and  wide :  ye  who  are^  lords,  etc.  4.  Ye 
who,  united,  performed  many  (exploits)  of'  old,  who  manifested  ill 
omens  among  men :  ye  who  are  lords,  etc.  5.  Ye  from  whose  destroy- 
ing stroke  no  one  either  among  gods  or  men  escapes:  ye  who  are  lords, 
etc.  6.  Fierce  gods,  launch  your  thunderbolt  against  the  Yatudhana, 
who  practises  sorcery,  and  prepares  roots  (fof  that  purpose) :  ye  who 
are  lords,  etc.  7.  Pierce  gods,  take  our  side  in  battles,  smite  with 
the  thunderbolt  him  who  is  a  goblin.  I  praise  you,  Bhava  and  S'arva ; 
distressed  I  again  and  again  invoke  you ;  deliver  us  from  calamity." 

71  Yaska  explains  this  word  thus,  Nirukta,  vi.  11 :  Kim  idanlni  iti  charate  him 
idam  Jtim  idam  iti  va  piaunaya  charate  \ 


RELATING  TO  RUDRA,  BHAYA,  S'ARVA,  ETC.  333 

A.  Y.  v.  21,  11.  —  Yuyam  ugrdh  Ifarutah  Prisni-mdtarah  Indrena 
yujd  pra  mrinita  satrun  \  Somo  raja  Yaruno  raja  mahddevah  uta  mrityur 
Indrah  \  "Do  ye,  fierce'  Marut  A,  whose  mother  is  Prisni,  allied  with 
Indra,  destroy  [our]  enemies,  (May)  king  Soma,  king  Yaruna,  and 
India,  who  is  a  great  god  and  death,  (do  the  same)."  [This  verse  is 
from  a  martial  hymn  addressed  to  the  Dundubhi  or  drum,  which  in 
verses  4-6  is  beAraght  to  terrify  the  poet's  enemies,  as  the  sight  of 
a  man  frightens  wild*  aftimals,  a  wolf  goats  and  sheep,  and  a  hawk 
smaller  birds.  4.  Yathd  mrigdh  samvyamt  dranydh  purmhdd  adhi  \ 
....  5.  Yathd  vrikdd  ajdvayo  dhdvanti  bahu  bibhyatih  |  ....  6. 
Yathd  syendt  patatrinah  samvijante  ahar  divi  .....  J 

A.  Y.  vi.  93,  1.  —  Yamo  Mrityur  aghamdro  nirritho  babhruh  S'arvo 
'std  riila-sikhandah  \  deva-jandh  senayd  uttasthivdmsas  te  asmdkam  pari 
vrinjantu  virdn  \  2.  Manasd  homair  harasd  gjiritena  S'arvdydstre  uta 
rdjne  Bhavdya  \  namasyebhyo  namah  ebhyah  krinomy  anyatra  asmad 
aghavishd  nayantu  \  "  May  Yama,  Death,  who  brings  dire  destruction, 
may  the  Destroyer,  may  tawny  S'arva  the  archer  with  dark  locks,  may 
the  hosts  of  the  gods,  arising  with  their  army,  may  these  avoid  our  heroes. 
2.  "With  mind,  with  oblations,  with  fire,  with  butter,  I  offer  reverence 
to  S'arva  the  archer,  and  to  king  Bhava,  to  them  who  deserve  re- 
verence ;  let  them  carry  their  deadly  poisons  to  others  than  us." 

In  A.  Y.  vi.  141,  1,  Rudra  is  mentioned  along  with  Yayu,  Tvashtri, 
and  Indra  (Rudro  bhumne  chiTiitsatu]. 

A.  Y.  vii.  87,  1.  —  Yo  Agnau  Eudro  yo  apsv  antar  yah  oshadhlr  vlru- 
dhah  dvivesa  \  yah  imd  visvd  bhuvandni  chdklripe  tasmai  Budrdya  namo 
astv  Agnaye  \  "  Reverence  be  to  that  Eudra,  Agni,  to  the  Rudra  who 
is  in  Agni,  who  is»in  the  waters,  and  who  has  entered  into  the  plants 
and  bushes,  and  who  has  formed  all  these  creatures." 

A.  Y.  viii.  2,  7.  —  •-,•••  Bhavd-sarvau  mridatam  sarma  yachhatam 
apasidhya  duritam  dhattam  dyuh  [*....."  Bhava  and  Sarva,  be 
gracious,  give  protection;  removing  calamity,  give  life."72 

A.»Y.  viii.  5,  10.  —  Asmai  manim  varma  ladhnantu  devdh  Indro  Vish- 
nuh  Savitd  Rudro  Agnih  \  ityu.di  \  "  May  the^  gods,  Indra,  Yishnu, 
Sa-ntri,  Rudra,  Agni,  bind  on  him  the  jewel  as  a  protection,"  etc. 


72  See  the  translation  of  the  entire  hymn,  in  which  this  half  verse  occurs,  in  the 
fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  446  ff. 


334  HYMN  TO  BHAVA  AND  S'ARVA  FROM 

A.  Y.  ix.  7,  7. — Mitras  cha  Varunas  cha  amsau  Tvashtd  cha  Aryamd 
cha  doshanl  Mahddevo  bdhu  \  "Mitra  and  Varuna  are  the  shoulders, 
Tvashtri  and  Aryaman  the  fore-arms,  and  Mahadeva  the  two  arms  " 

A.  V.  x.  1,  23. — Bhavd-sarvdti  asyatdm  pdpa-krite  krityd-krite  dush- 
krite  vidyutam  deva-hetim  \  "Let  Thava  and  S'arva  launch  the  lightning, 
the  bolt  of  the  gods,  against  the  doer  of  wickedness,  against  him  who 
employs  sorcery,  against  the  evil  doer."  (See  Weber' s*Ind.  Studien,  ii. 
37,  note,  quoted  above  in  p.  328  f.) 

w A.  V.  xi.  2,  1. — Bhavd-lS'ttrvau  mridatam  ma  'bhiydtam  bhuta-patl 
pasu-patl  namo  vdm  \  pratihitdm  dyatdm  md  vi  srdshtam  md  no  himsi- 
shtam  dvipado  md  chatushpadah  \  2.  S'une  Jcroshtre  md  sarirdni  Jcartam 
aliklavebhyo  gridhrelhyo  ye  cha  krishndh  avishyavah  \  makshikds  te  Pasu- 
pate  vayamsi  te.  vighase  md  vidanta  \  3.  Krandaya  te  prdndya  yds  cha 
te  BJiava  ropayah  \  namas  te  Rudra  krinmah  sahasrdhhdya  amartya  \ 
4.  Purastdt  te  namah  krinmah  uttarad  adhardd  uta  \  abhwargdd  divas 
pari  antariksJidya  te  namah  \  5.  Mukhdya  te  Pasupate  ydni  chakshumshi 
te  JBhava  \  tvache  rupdya  samdrise  pratlchlndya  te  namah  \  6.  AngebTiyas 
te  udardya  jihvdyai  dsydya  te  \  dadbhyo  gandhdya  te  namah  \  7.  Astra 
mla-sikhandena  sahasrdkshena  vdjind  \  Rudrendrdhaka-ghdtind  tena  md 
samardmahi  \  8.  Sa  no  Bhavah  pari  vrinaktu  visvatah  dpah"13  ivdgnih 

fr 

pari  vrinaktu  no  £havah  [  md  no  'bhi  mdmsta  namo  astv  asmai  \  9.  Chatur 
namo  ashtakritvo  Bhavdya  dasa  kritvah  Pasupate  namas  te  \  taveme  pan- 
cha  pasavo  vilhaktdh  gdvo  asvdh  purushdh  ajdvayah  \  10.  Tava  chatasrah 
pradisas  tava  dyaus  tava  prithivl  tavedam  ugrorv  antariksJiam  \  tavedam 
sarvam  dtmanvad  yat  prdnat  pritJiivlm  anu  \  11.  Uruh  koso  vasudhdnas 
tavdyam  yasminn  imd  visvd  Ihuvandny  antah  \  sa  no  mrida  Pasupate 
namas  te  parah  kroshtdro  abhibhdh  si'dnah  parotyantv'agharudo  vikesyah  \ 
12.  DJianur  bibharshi  haritam  Jiiranyayam  sahasra-ghnim  sata-vadham 
sikJiandin  \  Rudrasyeshus  charati  deva-Jietis  tasrai  namo  yatamasydm 
disltah  |  13.  Yo  'bhiydto  nilayate^  tvdm  Rudra  nichiklrshati  \  paschdd 
anu prayunkshe  tarn  viddhasya  pada-nlr  iva  \  14.  Bhavd-rudrau  sayujd 
samviddndv  ubhdv  ugrau  charato  vlrydya  \  tdbhydm  namo  yatamdsydm 
disltah  |  15.  Namas  te  tastv  ay  ate  namo  astu  pardyate  \  namas  te  Rudra 
tisJithate  dslndyota  te  namah  \  16.  Namah  say  am  namah  prdtar  natyo 
rdtryd  namo  diva  \  Bhavaya'jha  S'arvdya  cha  ubhdbhydm  akaram  namah  \ 

73  In  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon,  vol.  v.,  p.  1003,  several  passages  are  quoted 
where  upah  (with  a  long  a  in  the  first  syllable)  occurs  as  an  accusative  plural. 


THE  ATHARVAVEDA,  WITH  TRANSLATION.  335 

17.  Sahasrdksham  atipasyam  purastdd  Rudram  asyantam  bahudhd  vipas- 
chitam  \  ma  updrdma  jihvayd  lyamdn'Jlm  \  18.  S'ydvdsvam  krishnam  asi- 
tam  mrinantam  bhlmam  ratham '  kesinah  pddayantam  \  purve  pratlmo 
namo  astu  asmai  \  19.  Md  no  'bhi  waft  matyam  deva-hetim  md  nah  kru- 
dhah  Pasupate  namas  te  \  anyatra  aifmad  divydm  sdkhdfh  m  dhunu  \ 
20.  Md  no  himslr  adhi  no  bruhi  pari  no  vrindhi^  md  krudhah  \  ma  tvayd 
samardmahi  \  21.'  Md  no  goshu  purusheshu  md  gridho  no  ajdvishu  \ 
anyatrogra  vi  vartaya  'pvydrundm  prajdm  jahi  \  22.  Yasya  takmd 
kdsikd  hetir  ekam  asvasyeva  vrishanah  Jcrandah  eti  \  abhipurvam  nirnayate 
namo  astv  asmai  \  23.  To  antarikshe  tishthati  vishtabhito  ayajvanah 
pramrinan  deva-plyun  \  tasmai  namo  dasabhih  sakvarlbhih  \  24.  Tubhyam 
dranydh  pasavo  mrigdh  vane  hitdh  hamsdh  suparndh  sakundh  vaydmsi  \ 
tava  yaksham  Pasupate  ap&v  antas  tubhyam  ksharanti  divyah  dpo  vridhe  \ 
25.  Simsumdrdh  ajagardh  purlkaydh  jashdh  matsydh  rajasdh  yebhyo 
asyasi  \  na  te  durafn  na  parishthd  'sti  te  £hava  sadyah  sarvdm  pari 
pasyasi  bhumim  purvasmdd  hamsy  uttarasmin  samudre  \  26.  Md  no 
Rudra  takmand  md  mshena  md  nah  sam  srdh  divyendgnind  \  anya- 
trdsmad  vidyutam  pdtayaitdm  \  27.  JBhavo  divo  Bhavah  Ise  prithivydh 
Bhavah  d  papre  uru  antariksham  \  tasyai  namo  yatamasydm  disltah  \ 
28.  Bhava  rdjan  yajamdndya  mrida  pasundm  hi  pasupatir  babhtig 
tha  |  yah  sraddadhdti  santi  devdh  iti  chatmhpade  dvipade  asya  mrida  \ 
29  (  =  R.V.  i.  114,  7).  Md  no  mahdntam  uta  md  no  arbhakam  md 
no  vahantam  uta  md  no  vakshyatah  \  md  no  himsih  pitaram  mdtaram 
cha  svdrh  tanvafh  Rudra  md  rlrisho  nah*  \  30.  Rudrasyailaba-kdrebhyo 
1 ' samsukta-gilebhyah  \  idam  mahdsyebhyah  svabhyo  akaraih  namah  \ 
31.  Namas  te  ghoshimbhyo  namas  te  kesinlbhyah  \  namo  namaskritdbhyo 
namah  sambhunjatlbtiyah  \  ,namas  te  deva  sendbhyah  svasti  no  abhayam 
cha  nah  \ 

1.  "Bhava  and  S'arva,  be  gracious  to  us,  be  not  hostile,  lords  of 
spirits,  lords  of  beasts  [see  v.  9] ;  reverence  to  you  twain.  Discharge 
not  a  long  arrow ;  destroy  .not  our  bipeds  and  quadrupeds.  2.  Abandon 
not  ou£  bodies  to  the  dog  or  the  jackal,  to  carrion  birds,  to  vultures, 
to  thy  greedy  black  flies,  lord  of  beasts ;  let  no^  thy  birds  get  us  to 
devour.  3.  We  offer  reverence  to  thy  shout,  to  thy  breath,  and  to 
thy  arrows,  Bhava,  and,  0  immortal  Kudra,  Jb  thee  the  thousand- eyed. 
4.  We  offer  reverence  to  thee  from  before,  and  from  above,  and  from 
below,  and  from  thy  domain  in  the  sky :  reverence  to  thy  firmament. 


336  TRANSLATION  OF  HYMN  TO  BHAVA 

5.  Reverence  to  thy  face,  Pas"upati,  to  thine  eyes,  Bhava.  to  thy  skin, 
to  thy  form,  to  thine  aspect  from  behind.  6.  Reverence  to  thy  limbs, 
to  thy  belly,  to  thy  tongue,  to  thy  m'outh,  t6  thy  teeth,  to  thy  odour 
(nose?).  7.  May  we  never  content},  with  that  archer  whose  locks  are 
dark,  who  has  a  thousand  eyes^.the  warrior,  with  Rudra  the  slayer 
of  Ardhaka.74  8.  May  he  (Bhava)  everywhere  avoid  us,  may  Bhava 
avoid  us  as  fire  avoids  the  waters.  May  he  not  bear  malice  towards 
us:  reverence  be  to  him.  9.  Four  times,  eight 'times,  be  reverence  to 
Bhava:  ten  times  be  reverence  to  thee,  Pasupati.  Thine  are  these  five 
distinct  sorts  of  animals — kine,  horses,  men,  goats,  and  sheep.  10. 
Thine,  Ugra  [or  fierce  god],  are  the  four  regions,  the  sky,  the  earth, 
and  the  wide  atmosphere;  thine  is  everything  which  has  a* spirit  and 
which  breathes,  upon  the  earth.  11.  This  is  a  vast  and  wealthy  store- 
house of  thine,  within  which  all  these  beings  are  contained.  Do  thou 
favour  us,  Pasupati;  reverence  be  to  thee.  Par  from  us  be  jackals, 
unlucky  omens,  dogs :  may  shrieking  female  demons  with  dishevelled 
hair  go  far  from  us.  12.  Long-haired  god,  thou  earnest  a  yellow  and 
golden  bow,  [a  weapon]  which  smites  thousands  and  kills  hundreds. 
Rudra's  arrow,  a  celestial  bolt,  flies  abroad:  reverence  be  to  it  in  what- 
ever direction  from  hence  [it  flies].  13.  Thou  pursuest  after  the  ad- 
versary who  lurks  and  seeks  to  overcome  thee,  Rudra,  as  a  man  track- 
ing the  steps75  of  a  wounded  [animal].  14.  Bhava  and  Rudra,  who  are 
always  united  and  concordant,  both  fierce,  ye  advance  to  [deeds  of] 
heroism.  Reverence  be  to  them  twain  in  whatever  direction  they  are 
from  hence.  15.  Reverence  to  thee  coming,  and  to  thee  departing; 
reverence  to  thee,  Rudra,  standing,  and  to  thee  sitting.  16.  Reverence 
in  the  evening,  in  the  morning,  by  night  and  by  day :  I  have  offered 
reverence  to  Bhava,  and  to  S'arva,  both  of  them.  17.  Let  us  not  with 
our  tongue  offend  Rudra,  who  rushes  on,  thousand-eyed,  viewing  all 
the  world,  who  hurls  his  shafts  ill  our  presence,  and  who  is  manifoldly 
wise.  18.  We  approach  first  [with  our  worship]  the  god  who  has 
brown  horses,  is  dark,  black,  destroying,  terrible,  who  casts  dovrn  the 
car  of  Kesin  (the  long.-haired  being)76:  reverence  be  to  him.  19.  Do 

74  Rudra  is  elsewhere  said  V?  be  the  slayer  of  Andhaka  or  Antaka.     See  Rama- 
yana,  Aranya  Kanda  30,  27,  which  is  quoted  in  the  Appendix. 

75  Messrs.  Bohtlingk  and  Roth  assign  to  pada-nl  the  sense  of  "  guide." 
'6  Bohtlingk  and  Roth  make  kesin  an. epithet  of  Rudra :  see  s.v . 


AND  S'ARVA  FROM  THE  ATHARVAVEDA.  337 

not  hurl  at  us  thy  club,77  thy  celestial  bolt :  be  not  incensed  at  us, 
Pasupati;  reverence  be  to  thee.  Bifcndish  thy  celestial  weapon 78  over 
some  other  than  us.  20.'  Slay  tls  not ;  interpose  for  us ;  avoid  us ;  be 
not  angry  with  us;  let  us  not  corjtend  with  thee.  21.  Do  not  covet 
our  cattle,  our  men,  our  goats,  and  skeep.  Fierce  god,  betake  thyself 
[or,  turn  thy  chariot]  elsewhere;  slay  the  offspring  of  the  malignant. 
22.  Reverence  be*to  him  whose  consumption,  whose  cough,  whose  bolt 
assails  some  one  like  the*  neighing  of  a  stallion — to  him  who  carries 
away  [his  victims  ?]  in  order.  23.  Be  reverence  paid  with  ten  sakvavl 
verses  to  him  who  abides  fixed  in  the  atmosphere,  smiting  the  despisers 
of  the  gods  who  offer  no  sacrifice.  24.  For  thee  the  beasts  of  the  wood, 
deer,  swans,  and  various  well-winged  birds  79  are  placed  in  the  forest ; 
thy  living  creatures,  Pasupati,  exist  in  the  waters :  to  delight  thee  the 
celestial  waters  flow.  25.  (There  exist)  porpoises,  great  serpents,  purl- 
kayas,  sea-monsters,  fishes,  rajasas,79*  at  which  thou  shootest.  There 
is  to  thee,  Bhava,  nothing  far,  nor  anything  which  stands  [near] 
around  thee.  At  a  glance  thou  lookest  around  the  whole  earth :  from 
the  eastern  thou  slayest  in  the  northern  ocean.  26.  Do  not  assail  us, 
Eudra,  with  consumption,  or  with  poison,  or  with  celestial  fire :  cause 
this  lightning  to  descend  elsewhere  than  upon  us.  27.  Bhava  rules 
the  sky,  Bhava  rules  the  earth,  Bhava  hath  filled 80  the  vast  atmosphere : 
reverence  be  to  him  in  whatever  direction  from  hence  [he  is].  28. 
Bhava,  king,  be  gracious  to  thy  worshipper,  for  thou  art  lord  of  beasts. 
Be  gracious  to  the  quadrupeds  and  bipeds  of  him  who  believes  that 
the  gods  exist.81  29  (z=R.V.  i.  114,  7).  Slay  neither  our  great  nor 

our  small,  neither  him  who  is  growing  nor  those  who  are  to  grow,-2 
> 

77  A.  V.  viii.  8,  11. — Trinedhu  enan  matyam  Bhavasya  \  "May  the  club  of  Bhava 
crush  them." 

78  The  word  in  the  origind  is  sakha,  "branch." 

79  In  the  original,  suparnah  sakunah  vayaJhsi. 

79*  B.  and  R.  say  this  word  perhaps  means  "  unclean." 

80  Compare  R.V.  i.  52,  13, p.  99,  above;    and  the  other  passages  quoted  in  note 
73  on  the  same  page. 

81  Compare  R.V.  viii.  89,  3,  4,  quoted  in  the  third  volume  of  this  work,  p.  254. 
*\  Compare  R.V.  i.  114,  7,  and  T.  S.  iv.  5,  10,  2,  p.  3*03,  above.     In  Professor 

"Wilson's  Dictionary  I  find  the  sense  of  "growing"  assigned  to  the  root  vah,  when 
conjugated  in  the  atmane  pada  with  a  nasal,  vamKbte.  He  says,  however,  that  in 
this  sense  the  root  is  more  properly  bah,  bamhate.  If  the  verb  be  so  understood 
in  this  passage,  the  meaning  will  be  the  same  as  that  which,  on  the  authority  of 
Messrs.  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  I  have  adoptecUin  the  parallel  text  of  the  Rigveda. 
VOL.  iv.  *  22 


338    TEXTS  FROM  THE  ATHARV.  REGARDING  BHAVA,  S'ARVA,  ETC. 

neither  our  father  nor  our  mother :  injure  not,  Eudra,  ourselves.  30. 
I  have  offered  this  reverence  to  Rudra's  wide-mouthed  howling  dogs 
who  swallow  their  prey  unchewed.  Si.  Reverence,  0  deity,  to  thy 
shouting,  long-haired,  reverenced,  devouring  hosts.  May  blessing  and 
security  be  ours."  l 

A.  V.  xi.  6,  9. — Bhavd-sarvdv  idam  brumo  Rudram  Pasupatis  cha 
yah  |  ishur  yah  eshdm  samvidma  tdh  nah  santu  sadd'sivdh  \  "We  say 
this  to  Bhava  and  S'arva,  to  Rudra  and  to  him  who  is  Pasupati :  may 
those  arrows  of  theirs  which  we  know  be  always  propitious  to  us." 

A.  V.  xii.  4,  17. —  Yah  endm  avasdm  dha  devdndm  nihitam  nidhim  \ 
ubhau  tasmai  Bhavd-sarvau  parikramyeshum  asyatah  \  "Both  Bhava 
and  S'arva  advancing,  discharge  an  arrow  against  him  who  declares 
this  [cow],  the  hoarded  treasure  of  the  gods,  to  be  no  cow." 

A.  Y.  xiii.  4,  4. — So  'ryamd  sa  Varunah  sa  Rudrah  sa  Mahddevah  \ 

26.  Sa  Rudro  vasuvanir  vasudeye  namovdke  vashatkdro  'nu  samhitah  \ 

27.  Tasyeme  sarve  ydtavah  upa  prasisham  dsate  \    28.   Tasydmu  sarvd 
nakshatrd  vase  chandramasd  saJia  \   "4.  He  (Savitri)  is  Aryaman,  he  is 
Yaruna,  he  is  Rudra,  he  is  Mahadeva.     26.  He,  Rudra,  the  giver  of 
wealth,  is  placed  as  the  '  vashatkara '  in  the  reverential  invocation,  at 
the  giving  of  wealth.     27.  All  these  demons  wait  upon  his  command. 

28.  All  these  stars,  with  the  moon,  are  under  his  control." 

The  following  passage,  together  with  the  rest  of  the  fifteenth  book 
of  the  Atharva-veda,  is  quoted  and  translated  by  Prof.  Aufrecht  in 
the  first  vol.  of  Weber's  Indische  Studien,  pp.  121-140: 

A.  Y.  xv.  5,  1. — Tasmai  prdchydh  diso  antar-desdd  Bhavam  ishvdsam 
anushthdtdram  akurvan  \  Bhavah  enam  ishvdsah prdchydh  diso  antar-desdd 
anushthdtd  'nutishthati  \  nainam  S'arvo  na  Bhevo  na^'Tsdno  na  asya  pasun 
na  samdndn  hinastiyah  evam  veda  \  2.  Tasmai daltshindydh  diso  antardesdch 
chharvam  ishvdsam  ityddi  \  3.  Tasmai pratlchydh  diso  antar-desdt  Pasu- 
patim  ityddi  \  4.  Tasmai  udlcJiydh  diso  antar-desdd  ugram  devam  ityddi  \ 
5.  Tasmai  dhrmdydh  diso  antar-desdd  Rudrajn  ityddi  \  6.  Tasmai  ur- 
dhvtiydh  diso  antar-desdd  Mahddevam  ityddi  \  7.  Tasmai  sarvebhyo 
antar-desebhytih  Isdnam  ityddi  \  "  [The  gods]  made  Bhava  the  archer 
[to  be]  to  him  (the  Yratya)  a  deliverer  from  the  intermediate  space  of 
the  eastern  region.  Bhafa  the  archer,  a  deliverer,  delivers  him  from 
the  interval  of  the  eastern  region.  Neither  S'arva  nor  Bhava,  nor 
isana  slays  either  him  who  knows  this,  or  his  cattle,  or  his  kindred. 


PASSAGES  FROM  THE  S'ATAP.  BR.  REGARDING  AGXI-RUDRA.   339 

2.  [The  gods]  made  S'arva  the  archer  [to  be]  hia  deliverer  from  the 
intermediate  space  of  the  southern  »region,  etc.  3.  [The  gods]  made 
Pasupati  the  archer  [to 'be]  his*  deliverer  from  the  intermediate  space 
of  the  western  region,  etc.  4.  [The  gods]  made  the  god  Ugra,  etc. 
(as  above),  of  the  northern  region,  jtc.  5.  [The  gods]  made  Rudra, 
etc.  (as  above),  of  the  lower  region,  etc.  6.  [Tjfce  gods]  made  Maha- 
deva,  etc.  (as  abbve),  of  the  upper  region,  etc.  7.  [The  gods]  made 
Isaua  the  archer  [to  be]  his  deliverer  from  all  the  intermediate 
regions,"  etc, 

SECT.  IV. — Passages  relating  to  Rudra  from  the  S'atapatJia  and 
Sdnkhdyana  Brdhmanas. 

In  the  following  text  (which  has  been  already  quoted  in  the  second 
volume  of  this  work,  p.  202)  Eudra  is  identified  with  Agni : 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  i.  7,  3,  8. — Agnir  vai  sa  devah  tasya  etdni  nd- 
mdni  S'arvah  Hi  yathd  prdchydh  dchakshate  Bhavah  iti  yathd  Bdhlkdh 
Pasundm  patih  Riidro  'gnir  iti  \  tuny  asya  asdntdny  eva  itardni  ndmdni  \ 
Agnir  ity  eva  sdntatamam  \  "  Agni  is  a  god.  These  are  his  names : 
S'arva,  as  the  eastern  people  call  him,83  Bhava,  as  the  Bahikas,  Pasu- 
nampati  (lord  of  beasts),  Rudra,  and  Agni.  These  other  names  of  ffis 
(i.e.  all  the  foregoing  except  Agni)  are  ungentle.  Agni  is  his  gentlest 
appellation."84 

The  following  passage  describes  the  birth  of  Rudra,  and  at  the  same 
time  identifies  him  with  Agni : 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  6,  1,  3',  7  if. — Abhud  vai  iyam  pratishtJid  iti\ 
tad  Ihilmir  abhavat-^  tdm  aprathayat  sd  prithivy  abhavat  \  tasydni  asydm 
pratishthdydm  bhutdni  bhutdndncha  patih  samvatsardya  adlJcshanta  \  bhu- 
tdndm  patir  griha-patir  dsld  Ushdh  patnl  \  8.  Tad  ydni  tdni  bhutdni 
ritavas  te  \  atha  yah  sa  bhutdndm  patih  samvatsarah  sah  \  atha  yd  sd 
Ushdh  patny  aushasl  sd  \  tdni  imdni  bhutdni  cha  bhutdndncha  patih 
samvatsarah  Ushasi  reto  ^sinchan  \  sa  samvatsare  kumdro  'jdyata  \  so 

'rodit  |  9.  Tarn  Prajdpatir  abravit  "  kumdra  kim  rodishi  yach  chhramdt 

•» 

f8  On  this  the  commentator  remarks  (p.  124  of  "Weber's  edition) :  PracJtyMi- 
desa-bhedena  S' arvadi-nama-bhede  ''pi  devata  eka  -\eva  \  "  Though,  owing  to  the 
difference  of  countries,  there  is  a  difference  of  names,  as  S'arva,  etc.,  still  the  god  is 
hut  one." 

84  See  the  note  translated  from  Weber's  ^ndische  Studien  above  in  p.  328. 


S40  BIRTH  AND  NAMES  OP  AGNI-RUDRA 

tapaso  'dhi  jdto  'si"  iti  \  so  'bravld  "  anapahata-pdpma  vai  asmy  anita- 
ndma  ndma  me  dhehi"  iti  \  tasmdt  pfttrasya  jdtasya  ndma  kurydt  pdpmd- 
mam  eva  asya  tad  apahanty  api  dvitlyam  api  tritlyam  abhipurvam  eva  asya 
tat  pdpmdnam  apahanti  \  10.  Tarn  abravld  Rudro  'si  iti  \  tad  yad  asya 
tan  ndma  akarod  Agnis  tad-rupam  doliavat  \  Agnir  vai  Rudrah  \  yad  arodlt 
tasmtid  Rudrah  \  so  'bmvli  "jydydn  vai  asato  'smi  dhehy  eva  me  ndma" 
iti  |  11.  Tarn  abravlt  "  Sarvo  'si"  iti  \  tad  yad  asya  'ian  ndma  akarod 
dpas  tad-rupam  abhavan  \  dpo  vai  Sarvah  \  adbhyo  ni  idam  sarvamjdyate  \ 
go'bravlj  "jydydn  vai  asato  'smi  dhehy  eva  me  ndma"  iti  [  12.  Tarn  abravlt 
Pasupatir  asi  iti  \  tad  yad  asya  tan  ndma  akarod  oshadhayas  tad-rupam 
abhavan  \  oshadhayo  vai  Pasupatis  tasmdd  yadd  pasavah  oshadhlr  labhante 
'tha  patlyanti  \  so  'bravlj  "Jydydn  vai  asato  'smi  dhehy  eva  me  ndma" 
iti  |  13.  Tarn  abravld  Ugro  'si  iti  \  tad  yad  asya  tan  ndma  akarod  Vdyus 
tad-rupam  abhavat  \  Vdyur  vai  Ugras  tasmdd  yadd  balavad  vdty  "  Ugro 
vdti"  ity  dhuh  \  so  'bravlj  "jydydn  vai  asato  'smi  dhehy  eva  me  ndma"  iti\ 
14.  Tarn  abravld  "Asanir  asi"  iti  \  tad  yad  asya  tan  ndma  akarot  vidyut 
tad-rupam  abhavat  \  vidyud  vai  Asanis  tasmdd  yam  vidyud  hanty  "  Asanir 
abadhld"  ity  dhuh  \  so  'bravlj  "jydydn  vai  asato  'smi  dhehy  eva  me  ndma" 
iti  |  15.  Tarn  abravld  "Bhavo  'si"  iti  \  tad  yad  asya  tan  ndma  akarot  Par- 
jcyiyas  tad-rupam  abhavat  \  Parjanyo  vai  Bhavah  \  Parjanydd  hi  idam  sar- 
vam  bhavati  \  so  'bravld  "jydydn  vai  asato  ''smi  dhehy  eva  me  ndma"  iti  \ 
16.  Tarn  abravld  "  Mohan  devo  'si"  iti  \  tad  yad  asya  tan  ndma  akaroch 
chandramds  tad-rupam  abhavat  \  Prajdpatir  vai  chandramdh  Prajdpatir 
vai  mahdn  devah  \  so  'bravlj  "jydydn  vai  asato  'smi  dhehy  eva  me  ndma" 
iti  \  17.  Tarn  abravld  " Isdno  'si"  iti  \  tad  yad  asya  tan  ndma  akarod 
Adityas  tad-rupam  abhavat  \  Adityo  vai  Isdnah  Adityo  hy  asya  sarvasya 
Ishte  |  so  'bravld  " etdvdn  vai  asmi  md  md  itoh  paro  ndma  dhuh"  iti  \ 
18.  Tuny  etdny  ashtdv  Agni-rupdni  Kumar -o  navamah  \  sd  eva  Agnes  tri- 
vrittd  |  19.  Yad  vai  iva  ashtdv  Agni-rupdny  asJxidkshard  gdyatrl  tasmdd 
dhur  "  gdyatro  ^gnir"  iti  \  so  'yam  kumdro  rupdny  anuprdvisat  \  na  vai 
Agnim  kumdram  iva  pasyanty  etdny  eva  asya^rupdni pasyanty  etdni  hi 
rupdni  prdvisat  \  ' 

"  This  foundation  existed.  It  became  the  earth  (bhumi}.  He  ex- 
tended it  (aprathayat}.  It  became  the  broad  one  (prithivl}.  On  this 
foundation  beings,  and  thfe  lord  of  beings,  consecrated  themselves  for 
the  year  (samvatsara}.  The  lord  of  beings  was  a  householder,  and 
Ushas  was  his  wife.  8.  ]Sow  thejse  '  beings '  were  the  seasons.  That 


ACCORDING  TO  THE  S'ATAPATHA  BRlHMANA.  341 

'lord  of  beings '*was  the  Year.  That  wife  TJshas  was  Aushasi  (the 
daughter  of  the  dawn).85  Then  b?th  those  beings,  and  that  lord  of 
beings,  the  Tear,  impregnated  Fshas,  and  a  boy  (Kumara) 86  was  born  . 
in  a  year.  The  boy  wept.  9.  Prajapati  said  to  him,  'Boy,  why  dost 
thou  weep,  since  thou  hast  been  born  after  toil  and  austerity?'  The 
boy  said,  '  My  evil  indeed  has  not  been  taken  a^way,  and  a  name  has 
not  been  given  ta  me.  Give  me  a  name.'  "therefore  when  a  son  has 
been  born  [to  any  man]?  let  a  name  be  given  to  him ;  that  takes  away 
his  evil ;  and  [let]  also  a  second  and  a  thi/d  [name  be  given]  in  suc- 
cession: that  takes  away  his  evil.  10.  Prajapati  said  to  him,  'Thou 
art  Rudra.'  Inasmuch  as  he  gave  him  that  name,  Agni  became  his 
form,  for  Rudra  is  Agni.  He  was  Rudra  because  he  wept  (arodlt 
from  rud,  'to  weep').87  The  boy  said,  'I  am  greater  than  one  who 
does  not  exist:  give  me  a  name.'  11.  Prajapati  replied,  'Thou  art 
Sarva.'88  Inasmuch  as  he  gave  him  that  name,  the  waters  became 
his  form,  for  Sarva  (All)  is  the  waters,  because  all  this  is  produced 
from  the  waters  (see  above,  p.  24  f.).  The  boy  said,  '  I  am  greater 
than  one  who  does  not  exist:  give  me  a  name.'  12.  Prajapati  replied, 
'  Thou  art  Pasupati.'  Inasmuch  as  he  gave  him  that  name,  the 
Plants  became  his  form,  for  Pasupati  is  the  Plants.  Hence,  when 
beasts  obtain  plants,  they  become  lords  (or  strong).  The  boy  safd, 

85  I  am  unable  to  explain  how  Ushas,  the  dawn,  is  identified  with  her  own  off- 
spring, Aushasi;  or  how  the  'lord  of  beings '=  the  Year,  consecrated  himself  for 
the  year. 

86  The  name  Kumara,  Weber  remarks  (Indische  Studien,  ii.  302,  395),  is  applied 
to  Agni  in  Rig-veda,  v.  2,  1. 

87  See  the  end  of  note  9,  p.  303,  above.    A  story  like  the  one  there  given  will  be 
found  in  Taitt.  Sanh.  j.  5,  1,  1: — Devasurah  samyattuh  asan  \  te  devah  vijayam  upa- 
yanto  'gnau  vamam  vasu  sanity  adadhata  "idam  u  no  bhavishyati  yadi  no  jeshyaitti  " 
iti  |  tad  Agnir  nyakamayata  \  tena  apakramat  \  tad  devah  vijitya  avarurutsamanah 
anvayan  \  tad  asya  sahasa  ciditsanta  \  so  'rodlt  \  yad  arodlt  tad  Rudrasya  Rudratvam  \ 
"  The  gods  and  Asuras  engaged  in  battle.  ,The  gods,  conquering,  deposited  valuable 
property  with  Agni,  saying,  '  If  they  should  ever  conquer  us,  we  shall  have  this.' 
Agni  desired  the  property ;  and  went  off  with  it.     The  gods,  after  being  victorious, 
went  fifter  him  to  recover  their  goods,  which  they  sought  to  take  from  him  by  force. 
He  wept.     From  his  weeping  Rudra  gets  his  character  of  Rudra." 

88  The  origin  of  this  name  may  perhaps  be  found  iu  Rig-veda,  x.  61,  19,  where 
th^ese  words  occur :  lyam  me  nabhir  iha  me  sadhastham  ime  me  devah  ayam  usmi 
Sarvah  \  dvifah  aha  prathama-jah  ritasya  idam  dhfnur  aduhaj  jayamana  \  "  This  is 
my  centre,  here  is  my  abode,  these  are  my  gods,  this  is  I,  Sarva  (All).     The  twice- 
born  men  are  the  firstborn  of  the  sacred  rite.     This  the  cow  milked  out,  when  she 
was  being  born." 


342  DIFFERENT  NAMES  OF  AGNI. 

'I  am  greater  than  one  who  does  not  exist:  give  fte  a  name.  13. 
Prajapati  said  to  him,  'Thou  art  TTgra.'  Inasmuch  as  he  gave  him  that 
name,  Yayu  (the  Wind)  became  his  form.  FoY  TJgra  (or  the  'Fierce') 
is  Vayu.  Wherefore  when  it  blow^  strongly,  men  say,  '  Ugra  blows.' 
The  boy  said,  '  I  am  greater  than,  one  who  does  not  exist :  -give  me  a 
name.'  14.  Prajapati  said  to  him,  '  Thou  art  Asani.'  Inasmuch  as  he 
gave  him  that  name,  Yidyut  (Lightning)  became  his  form.  For  Asani 
is  Lightning.  Hence  they  say  that  Asani  has1  struck  a  man  whom 
lightning  strikes.  The  boy  said,  'I  am  greater  than  one  who  does  not 
exist:  give  me  a  name.'  15.  Prajapati  said  to  him,  'Thou  art  Bhava.' 
Inasmuch  as  he  gave  him  that  name,  Parjanya  (the  god  of  rain)  be- 
came his  form.  For  Bhava  (Being)  is  Parjany|;  because  all  this 
[universe]  springs  (lhavati}  from  Parjanya.  The  boy  said,  'I  am 
greater  than  one  who  does  not  exist :  give  me  a  name.'  16.  Prajapati 
replied,  'Thou  art  Mahandevah  (the  'Great  god').'  Inasmuch  as  he 
gave  him  that  name,  Chandramas  (the  Moon)  became  his  form.  For  the 
Moon  is  Prajapati:  the  'Great  god'  is  Prajapati.  The  boy  said,  'I  am 
greater  than  one  who  does  not  exist:  give  me  a  name.'  17.  Praja- 
pati replied,  '  Thou  art  Isana  (the  ruler).'  Inasmuch  as  he  gave  him 
that  name,  Aditya  (the  Sun)  became  his  form.  For  Isana  is  the  Sun, 
because  he  rules  (ishte)  over  this  universe.  The  boy  said,  '  I  am  so 
much:  do  not  give  me  any  further  name.'  18.  These  are  the  eight 
forms  of  Agni.  Kumara  (the  boy,  see  above,  para.  8  in  the  preceding 
page)  is  the  ninth.  This  ist-the  threefoldness  (trurittu)  of  Agni. 
19.  Since  there  are,  as  it  were,  eight  forms  of  Agni,  [and]  the  gayatri 
metre  has  eight  syllables,  men  say,  'Agni  pertains  to  the  gayatri.'89 
This  boy  (Kumara)  entered  into  the  forms.  ,,Men  Go  not  see  Agni  as 
a  boy ;  it  is  these  forms  of  his  that  they  see ;  for  he  entered  into  these 
forms."  , 

This  passage  appears  to  be  the"  original  from  which  the  story  of  the 
birth  of  Rudra  in  the  Puranas  is  borrowed.  ^That  legend,  as  given  in 
the  Markandeya  Purana  (in  nearly  the  same  words  as  in  the  Vishnu 
Purana),  is  as  follows,; 

c 

89  The  same  words  occur  in  ^he  Taitt.  S.  ii.  2,  5,  5;  and  the  Tailt.  Br.  i.  1,  5,  3. 
The  Commentator  on  the  latter  passage  says :  Agner  mukha-jatvena  gayatrl-sambandh  i- 
tvam  \  "  Agni's  connexion  with  the  Gayatri  arises  from  his  having  sprung  from  the 
mouth." 


TEXTS  FROM  THE  MARK.  PUR.  AND  S'ANKH.  BR.  343 

Mark.  Pur.  Sect.  52,  2  ff. — Kalpdddv  dtmanas  tulyam  sutam  pra- 
dhydyatah  prabhoh  \  3.  Prddur-dsld  athdnke  'si/a  Icumdro  riila-lohitah  \ 
ruroda,  susvaraih  so  'tha  flravamfi  cha  dvija-sattama  \  kim  rodishlti  tarn 
Brahma  rudantam  pratyuvdcha  ha  \  ndma  dehlti  tarn  so  '  tha  pratyuvdcha 
jagat-patim  \  Rudras  tvam  deva  ndmnd  'si  md  rodlr  dhairyam  dvaha  \ 
evam  uktas  tatah  so  'tha  sapta-kritvo  ruroda  ha  \  tato  'nydni  dadau  tas- 
mai  sapta  ndmdi^i  vai  pralhuh  \  sthdndni  cllaishdm  ashtdndm  patnlh 
putrdms  cha  vai  dvijq  \*Bhavam  Sarcam  tatheSdnam  tathd  Pasupatim 
pralhuJi  |  Bhlmam  Ugram  Mahddevam  uvdcla  sa  Pitdmahah  \ 

"When,  at  the  beginning  of  the  kalpa,  the  lord  (i.e.  Brahma)  was 
meditating  on  a  son  similar  to  himself,  there  was  manifested  in  his  lap 
a  boy  of  a  blue  and  red  colour,  (3)  who  then  wept  loudly,  running 
about.  Brahma  said  to  him  when  he  was  weeping,  '  Why  dost  thou 
weep?'  He  answered  the  lord  of  the  world,  'Give  me  a  name.' 
[Brahmi  rejoined],  'Thou,  0  deity,  art  called  Rudra;  do  not  weep;  be 
patient.'  Being  thus  addressed,  [the  boy]  wept  again  seven  times. 
Then  the  lord  gave  him  seven  other  names,  and  the  places  of  these 
eight,  and  wives  and  sons.  The  Progenitor  (Brahma)  called  him 
[besides  Eudra]  Bhava,  Sarva,  Isana,  Pasupati,  Bhima,  Ugra,  Maha- 
dova." 

These  names  (except  Bhima,  which  is  substituted  for  Asani)  are  iJhe 
same  as  those  in  the  Brahmana.  The  same  legend  is  given  in  a  some- 
what diferent  form  in  the  S'ankhayana  or  KaushitakI  Brahmana,  and 
an  abstract  of  that  passage  is  furnished  by  Prof.  Weber  in  his  Indische 
Studien  ii.  300  ff.  For  the  text  of  the  passage  I  am  indebted  to  Prof. 
AufrecLt,  who  copied  it  from  the  MS.  of  the  S'ankhayana  in  the  Bodleian 
Library  at  Oxford, 

S'ankiayana  Brahmana,  vi.  i.  etc. — Prajdpatih  prajdti-kdmas  tapo 
Hapyata  \  tasmdt  taptdt  pancha  ajdyanta  Agnir  Vdyur  Adityas  Chandra- 
mdh  Uthdh  panchaml  \  tun  abravirf  " yuyam  api  tapyadhvam"  \  te 
'dlkshanta  \  tan  dlkshitdms  tepdndn  Ushdh  prdjdpatyd  'psaro-rupam 
Tcritva  jurastdt  pratyudait  \  tasydm  eshdm  manah  samapatat  \  te  reto 
'sincharta  \  'Te  prajdpatim  pitaram  etya  alruvan  "  reto  vai  asichdmahai 
id,am  nt  md  amuyd  bhud"  iti  \  saprajdpatirhiranmayam  chamasam  akaroA 
tshu-mitram  urdhvam  evam  tiryancham  \  tasmin  retah  samasinchat  \ 
tatah  idatishthat  sahasrdkshah  sahasrapdt  sahasrena  pratihitdbhih  \  2. 
Sa  prijdpatim  pitaram  alhydyachhat  \  tarn  alravlt  "  Tcathd  md  'Ihyd- 


344  BIRTH  OP  THE  GOD  WITH  EIGHT  NAMES 

yachhasi"  iti  \  "ndma  me  kurv"  ity  abravln  "na  vai  idam  avihitena 
ndmnd  annam  atsydmi"  iti  \  " sa  vai  tvam"  ity  abravld  "  Uhavah  eva" 
iti  yad  JBhavah  dpas  \  tena  na  ha  v0i  evam,  Bhavo  hinasti  na  asya 
prajdm  na  asya  pasun  na  asya  bruvdnam  chana  \  atha  yah  enam  dveshti 
sa  eva  pdpiydn  bhavati  \  na  sa  yah  evam  veda  \  tasya  vratarq  a  Im  era 
vdsah  paridadhlta  iti  \  3.  Tarn  dvitlydm  abhydyachhat  tarn  abravlt  \ 
"  kathd  md  abhydyachhat"  iti  |  "dvitlyam  me  nama  kurv"  ity  abravln 
"  na  vai  idam  ekena  ndmnd,  annam  atsydmi"  <  itf  \  "  sa  vai  tvam"  iti 
abravlch  "  Chharvah  eva"  cti  yach  Chharvo  'gnih  \  tena  na  ha  vai  enam 
Sarvo  hinasti  na  asya  prajdm  na  asya  pasiin  na  asya  Iruvdnam  ehana  \ 
atha  yah  enam  dveshti  sa  eva  pdpiydn  bhavati  |  na  sa  yah  evam  veda  \ 
tasya  vratarh  sarvam  eva  na  asnlydd  iti  \  4.  Tarn  tritlyam  abhydyachhat  \ 
tarn  dbravit  "kathd  md  abHydyachhasi"  iti  \  "tritlyam  me  n&mi  Icurv" 
ity  abravln  "  na  vai  idam  dvdbhydm  ndmabhydm  annam  atsydmi"  iti  \ 
"savai tvam"  ity  abravlt  "Pasupatir  eva"  iti yat Pasupatir  Vdijuh\  tena 
na  ha  vai  enam  Pasupatir  hinasti  na  asya  prajdm  na  asya  pasun  na  asya 
Iruvdnam  chana  \  atha  yah  enam  dveshti  sa  eva  pdpiydn  lhavati  \  na  sa 
yah  evam  veda  \  tasya  vratam  brdhmanam  eva  na  parivaded  iti  \  5.  Tarn 
chaturtham  abhydyachhat  \  tarn  dbravlt  "kathd  md  'bhydyachhcsi"  iti  \ 
"  chaturtham  me  ndma  kurv"  ity  abravlt  \  "  na  vai  idam  tribhir  ndma- 
bhir  annam  atsydmi"  iti  \  "  sa  vai  tvam"  ity  abravld  "  Ugrah  e:a  devah" 
iti  yad  Ugro  devah  oshadhayo  vanaspatayah  \  tena  na  ha  vai  eiam  TJgro 
devo  hinasti  na  asya  prajdm  na  asya  pasun  na  asya  bruvtinah  chana  \ 
atha  yah  enam  dveshti  sa  eva  pdpiydn  bhavati  \  na  sa  yah  evtm  veda  \ 
tasya  vratam  striydh  eva  mvaram  na  llcsheta  iti  \  6.  Tarn  panchamam 
abhydyachhat  \  tarn  abravlt  "kathd  md  '<bhydyachhasi"  iti  \  par.chamam 
me  ndma  kurv"  ity  abravlt  \  "na  vai  idam  chaturbhir  ndmalhir  annam 
atsydmi"  iti  \  " sa  vai  tvam"  ity  abravln  " Mahdn  eva  devah"  iti  \  yan 
Mahdn  devah  Adityah  \  Tena  na  ha  vai  enam  Mahdn  devo  hmasti  na 
asya  prajdm  na  asya  pasun  na  a$ya  bruvdnam  chana  \  atha  yah  enam 
dveshti  sa  eva  pdpiydn  bhavati  \  na  sa  yah  evam  veda  \  tasyc  vratam 
udyantam  eva  enam  na  iksheta  astam  yantam  cha  iti  \  7.  Jam^  sha- 
shtham  abhydyachhat  tarn  dbravit  "kathd  md  abhydya6hhasi"  iti  \ 
"  shashtham  me  ndma'kurv"  ity  abravlt  \  "  na  vai  idam  pai\chalJ)ir 
ndmabhir  annam  atsydmi"  iti  \  "sa  vai  tvam"  ity  abravld  "Rudrah  eva" 
iti  yad  Rudras  Chandramdh  \  Tena  na  ha  vai  enam  Rudro  himsti  na 
asya  prajdm  na  asya  pasun  na  asya  bruvdnam  chana  \  atha  ya\  enam 


ACCORDING  TO  THE  S'ANKHAYANA  BRAHMANA.  345 

dveshti  sa  eva  pdpiydn  bhavati  \  na  sa  yah  evam  veda  \  tasya  vratam 
vimurtam  eva  ndsmydn  majjdnam  c\a  iti  \  8.  Tarn  saptamam  abhyd- 
yachhat  \  tarn  abravlt  " Uathd  ma.  'bhydyachhasi"  iti  \  "saptamam  me 

ndma  kurv "    ity  abravlt  I    "  na  vai  idam   shadbhir   ndmabhir  annam 

'  -,  ' 

atsydmi"  ifi  \  "  sa  vai  tvam"  ity  abryvld  "  Isdnah  eva'1  iti  yad  Isano 

'nnaffi  \  tena  na  ha  vai  enam  Isano  hinasti  na  asya  prajdm  na  asya  pasun 
na  any  a  bruvdnam»chana  \  atha  yah  enam  daeshti  sa  eva  pdpiydn  bhavati  \ 
na  sa  yah  evam  veda  \>te#ya  vratam  annam  eva  ichhamdnam  na  prat- 
ydchakshlta  iti  \  9.  Tarn  ashtamam  abhydyayhhat  \  tarn  abravit  "  kathd 
md  'bhydyachkasi"  iti  \  "ashtamam  me  ndma  kurv"  ity  abravln  " na 
vai  idam  saptabhir  ndmabhir  annam  atsyumi"  iti  \  "  sa  vai  tvam"  ity 
abravid  " Asanir  eva"  iti  yad  Asanir  Indrah  \  tena  na  ha  vai  enam 
Asanir  hinasti  na  asya  prajdm  na  asya  pasun  na  asya  bruvdnam  chana  \ 
atha  yah  enam  dveshti  sa  eva  pdpiydn  bhavati  \  na  sa  yah  evam  veda  \ 
tasya  vratam  satyam  eva  vaded  hiranyam  cha  bibhriydd  iti  \  sa  esho 
'shtandmd  'shtadhd  vihito  Mahdn  devah  \  d  ha  vai  asya  ashtamdt  purushdt 
prajd  'nnam  atti  vaslydn  vaslydn  ha  eva  asya  prajdydm  djdyate  yah 
evam  veda  \ 

"Prajapati,  being  desirous  of  progeny,  performed  austerity.  From 
him  when  he  had  [thus]  performed  austerity  five  [children]  were  born, 
Agni,  Yayu,  Aditya,  Chandramas  (Moon),  and  Ushas  (dawn)  the  fiftn. 
He  said  to  them,  '  Do  you  also  perform  austerity.'  They  consecrated 
themselves.  Before  them,  when  they  had  consecrated  themselves,  and 
had  performed  austerity,  Ushas,  the  daughter  of  Prajapati,  assuming 
the  form  of  an  Apsaras  (a  celestial  nymph)  rose  up.  Their  attention 
was  riveted  upon  her,  and  they  discharged  seed.  They  then  came 
to  Prajapati  their  a  father,  and  said  to  him,  'We  have  discharged 
seed;  let  it  not  lie  there  in  vain.'  Prajapati  made  a  golden  platter, 
of  the  depth  of  an  arrow,  and  of  equal  breadth.  In  this  he  collected 
the  seed,  and  from  it  there  arose  a  being  with  a  thousand  eyes,  a  thou- 
sand feet,  and  a  thousand  arrows  on  the  string.  2.  He  came  to  his 
father^Prajapati,  who  asked  him,  '  Why  dost  thou  come  to  me?'  He 
answered,  '  Give  me  a  name.  I  ;^hall  not  eat  this  food,  so  long  as  no 
name  has  been  given  to  me.'  '  Thou  art  Bhava,'  said  Prajapati ;  for 
Bhava  is  the  Waters.  Therefore  Bhava  does,  not  slay  this  man,  nor  his 
offspring,  nor  his  cattle,  nor  any  [creature  of  his]  who  speaks.  And 

further,  whoever  hates  him  is  most  wicked.     Such  is  not  the  case  with 

> 


346  THE  GOD  WITH  EIGHT  NAMES. 

him  who  knows  this.  His  rule  is,  let  a  man  wear  a  garment.  3.  He 
(this  newly-produced  being)  came  a  second  time  to  Prajapati,  who 
asked  him,  'Why  dost  thou  come  to  me?\  'Give  me,'  he  replied, 
'a  second  name:  I  shall  not  eat  this  food  with  only  one  name.'  'Thou 
art  S'arva,'  Prajapati  answered ;  for  S'arva  is  Agni.  Wherefore  S'arva 
does  not  slay  him,  nor  his  offspring,  nor  his  cattle,  nor  any  [creature 
of  his]  who  speaks.  Further,  whoever  hates  him  is  most  wicked. 
Such  is  not  the  case  with  him  who  knows  this  His  rule  is,  let  not 
a  man  eat  every  sort  of  food.  4.  He  came  the  third  time  to  Praja- 
pati, who  said  to  him,  '"Why  dost  thou  come  to  me?'  'Give  me  a 
third  name,'  he  replied;  'I  shall  not  eat  this  food  with  only  two 
names.'  '  Thou  art  Pasupati,'  Prajapati  answered;  for  Pasupati  is  Vayu 
(the  Wind).  Wherefoi'e  Pasupati  does  not  slay  him,  etc.,  etc.  His 
rule  is,  let  no  one  slander  a  Brahman.  5.  He  came  the  fourth  time 
to  Prajapati,  who  said  to  him,  'Why  dost  thou  come  to  me?'  '  Give 
me  a  fourth  name,'  he  replied;  'I  shall  not  eat  this  food  with  only 
three  names.'  'Thou  art  TJgradeva  (the  fierce  god),'  Prajapati 
answered;  for  TJgradeva  is  plants  and  trees.  Wherefore  Ugradeva 
does  not  slay  him,  etc.,  etc.  His  rule  is,  let  not  a  man  look  upon  the 
shame  of  a  woman.  6.  He  came  the  fifth  time  to  Prajapati,  who  said 
fo  him,  'Why  dost  thou  come  to  me?'  'Give  me  a  fifth  name,'  he 
replied ;  '  I  shall  not  eat  this  food  with  only  four  names.'  '  Thou  art 
Mahandeva  (the  great  god),'  Prajapati  answered;  for  Mahandeva  is 
Aditya  (the  Sun).  Wherefore  Mahandeva  does  not  slay  him,  etc.,  etc. 
His  rule  is,  let  no  man  look  upon  him  (the  Sun)  rising  or  setting.  7. 
He  came  the  sixth  time  to  Prajapati,  who  said  to  him,  'Why  dost 
thou  come  to  me  ?'  '  Give  me  a  sixth  name,'  he  replied ;  '  I  shall  not 
eat  this  food  with  only  five  names.'  '  Thou  art  Eudra,'  Prajapati 
answered;  for  Rudra  is  Chandramas  (the  Moon).  Therefore  Eudra  does 
not  slay  him,  etc.,  etc.  His  rulers,  let  no  man  eat  anything  coagulated 
[or  solid],90  or  any  marrow.  8.  He  came  the  seventh  time  to  Praja- 
pati, who  said  to  him,  'Why  dost  thou  come  to  me?'  'Givp  me  a 
seventh  name,'  he  replied ;  '  I  shall  not  eat  this  food  Vith  only  six 
names.'  'Thou  art  Isana,'  Prajapati  answered;  for  Isfina  is  food. 
Wherefore  Isana  does  not^  slay  him,  etc.,  etc.  His  rule  is,  let  no  one 
reject  him  who  desires  food.  9.  He  came  the  eighth  time  to  Praja- 

90  This  is  the  sense  assignee^. by  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.  murchh-\-vi. 


ORIGIN  OF  THE  WOED  S'ATAETJDEIYA.  347 

pati,  who  said  to  him,  '"Why  dost  thou  come  to  me?'  'Give  me  an 
eighth  name,'  he  replied ;  '  I  shall  njpt  eat  this  food  with  only  seven 
names.'  '  Thou  art  Asaai,'  Prajapati  answered ;  for  Asani  is  Indra. 
Wherefore  Asani  does  not  slay  him.  etc.,  etc.  His  rule  is,  let  a  man 
speak  truth,  and  keep  gold.  This  is  ,Jhe  Mahandeva  (great  god),  who 
has  eight  names,  and  who  is  formed  in  eight  ways.  The  progeny  to  the 
eighth  generation  of  the  man  who  possesses  this  knowledge,  eats  food,  and 
ever  wealthier  and  wealthier  men  will  be  born  among  his  descendants." 

The  following  is  the  account  given  in  tb*  S'atapatha  Brahmana  of 
the  object  and  name  of  the  S'atarudriya : 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  ix.  1,  1,  I.91 — Atha  atah  satarudriyam  juhoti  \ 
atra  esha  sarvo  'gnih  samskritah  \  sa  esho  'tra  Rudro  devatd  \  tasmin  devah 
etad  amritam  rupam  uttamam  adadhuh  \  sa  esJio  'tra  dlpyamu.no  'tishthad 
annam  ichhamdnah  \  tasmdd  devdh  abibliayur  "yad  vai  no  'yam  na  him- 
sydd"  iti  \  2.  Te  'bruvann  "annam  asmai  sambhardma  tena  enam  sama- 
ydma"  iti\  tasmai  etad  annam  samabharan  sdnta-devatyam™  \  tena  enam 
asamayan  \  tad  yad  etam  devam  etena  asamayams  tasmdch  chhdnta- 
devatyam  \  " sdnta-devatyam  ha  vai  tach  chhatarudriyam"  ity  dchakshate 
parolcsham  \  paroksha-kdmdh  hi  devdh  \ 

"He  now  offers  an  oblation  with  the  S'atarudriya.  Here  this  uni- 
versal fire  has  been  prepared;  and  here  this  E,udra  is  the  deity.  In 
him  the  gods  placed  this  most  excellent  immortal  form.  Here  he  rose 
up  flaming,  desiring  food.  The  gods  were  afraid  of  him,  'lest'  (they 
thought)  '  he  should  destroy  us.'  2.  They  said,  '  Let  us  collect  food 
for  him,  and  with  it  appease  hin.x  They  collected  for  him  this  food 
with  which  a  deity  is  appeased,1  and  with  it  they  appeased  him.  In- 
asmuch as  they  appeased  this  god  with  this,  it  is  therefore  called 
'  S'antadevatya '  ('that  with  which  a  god  is  appeased').  They  call 
this  '  S'antadevatya '  espterically  '  S'ata-rudriya ';  for  the  gods  love 
what  is  esoteric." 


91  Copipare  Taitt.  Br.  i.  6,  1,  2.  In  the  same  work,  i.  7,  1,  2,  we  read  that  the 
gods  and  Asurac>  were  fighting,  when  the  former  said  to  Agni,  "  We  shall  conquer 
with  thee  as  our  champion."  He  said,  "I  shall  transferal  myself  into  three  parts." 
He  did  so,  Agni  being  one  part,  Eudra  a  second,  and  Varuna  a  third,  etc  (te  devah 
Agnim  abruvan  "tvaya  vlrena  Aswan  abhibhavama" M\  so'bravit  "tredhaatmanaw 
vikarishye"  iti  \  sa  tredha  atmanam  vyakuruta  Agnim  tritlyam  Rudram  Iritlyaiii 
Varunam  tritlyam  ityadf). 

82  S'anta-devatyam  santa-devatartham  devata-santy-artham  \  Comrn. 


348  ORIGIN  OF  THE  WORD  S'ATARUDRIYA. 

On  this  the  commentator  remarks :  Vihito  'yam  homo  Rudra-rupaid- 
pannasya  Agner  upasamandrtham  \  "This  ohlation  is  offered  in  order 
to  appease  Agni  who  has  taken  the  form  of  vludra."93 

The  same  work  gives,  a  little  further  on,  another  account  of  the 
origin  of  Rudra,  and  a  different  .etymology  for  the  S'atarudriya : 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  ix.  1,  1,  6  ff. — Prajdpater  visrastdd  devatdh 
udakrdmams  tarn  ekah  eva  devo  na  ajaJidd  Manyur  eta  \  so  'sminn  antar 
vitato  'tishthat  \  so  'rodlt  \  tasya  ydny  asrurfi  prdskandams  tdny  asmin 
Manyau  pratyatishthan  \  sU  eva  sata-§irshdh  Rudrah  samabhavat  sahasrd- 
kshah  sateshudhih  \  atha  yah  anydh  viprusho  'patams  td  asanlchydtd 
sahasrdni9*  imdn  loJcdn  anuprdvisan  \  tad  yad  ruditdt  samabhavams 
tasmdd  Rudrah  \  so  'yam  sataslrshdh  Rudrah  sahasrdkshah  sateshudhir^ 
adhijya-dhanvd  pratihitdyi  bhishayamdno  'tishthad  annam  ichhamdnah  \ 
tasmdd  devdh  abibhayuh  \  7.  Te  Prajdpatim  abruvan  \  "asmdd  vai 
bibhlmo  yad  vai  no  'yam  na  himsydd"  iti  \  so  'bravld  "annam  asmai 
sambharata  tena  enam  samayata "  iti  \  tasmai  etad  annam  samabharan 
satarudriyam  tena  enam  asamayan  \  tad  yad  etam  satasirshdnam  Rudram 
etena  asamayams  tasmdch  chhataslrsha-nidra-samarilyam  \  satasirsha- 
rudra-Samanlyam  ha  vat  tat  satarudriyam  ity  dchakshate  paroksham  \ 
paroksha-kdmdh  hi  devdh  ityddi  \  .  .  .  14.  " Namas  te  Rudra  manyave" 
iti  |  yah  eva  asmin  so  'ntar  Manyur  vitato  'tishthat  tasmai  etan  namas- 
karoty  uto  "  te  ishave  namo  bdhubhydm  uta  te  namah  "  iti  ishvd  cha  hi 
bdhubhydm  cha  bhlshayamdno  'tishthat  \ 

6.  "From  Prajapati,  when  he  had  become  enfeebled,  the  deities 

93  In  the  Taitt.  S.  v.  4,  3,  1,  it  is  said :  Eudro  vai  esha  yad  Agnih  \  sa  etarhi  jato 
yarhi  sarvas  chitah  sa  yatlia  vatso  jatah  stanam  prepsaty  evam  vai  esha  etarhi  bha- 
gadheyam  prepsati  \  tasmai  yad  ahutim  na  juhnyad  adhvaf-yum  cha  yajamanam  cha 
dhyayet  \  S'atarudriyamjuhoti\  bhagadheyena  ev a  enam  samayati \  na  artim  a  archaty 
adhvaryur  na  yajamanah  \   "  This  Agni  is  Rudra  (or  terrible).     When  now  he  is 
horn,  and  all  kindled,  as  a  calf  when  horn  desires  th^  udder,  so  he  now  desires  his 
shaje.     If  an  ohlation  were  not  presented  to  him,  he  would  turn  his  thoughts  (with 
the  view  of  devouring)  towards  both  the  adhvaryu  priest  and  the  sacrificer.     The 
S'atarudriya  is  celebrated;  and  the  priest  quiets  him  with  a  share.    So  both  adhvaryu 
and  sacrificer  avoid  injury."     The  same  work,  v.  5,  7,  4,  says  similarly :  Zudro  vai 
esha  yad  Agnih  \  sa  yatha  vyaghrah  kruddhas  tishthaty  evam  vai  esha  etarhi  \  sanchi- 
tam  etair  upatishthate  nKmaskarair  eva  enam  samayati  \    "  This  Agni  is  Rudra  (or 
terrible).     As  a  tiger  stands  raging,  so  does  he  now.     The  priest  approaches^  with 
these  [oblations]  [the  fire]  that  has  been  prepared  [and  kindled] ;  and  quiets  him 
with  prostrations. 

94  Compare  Nir.  i.  15,  and  Vaj.  Sanh.  16,  54,  above,  325. 

95  Compare  Vaj.  Sanh.  xvi.  13,  above,  p.  323. 


TEXTS  FROM  THE  TANDYA  BR.  AND  MAHlBHARATA.       349 

departed.  Only  one  god,  Manyu,  did  not  leave  him,  but  continued 
extended  within  him.  He  (Prajapati)  wept.  The  tears  which  fell 
from  him  remained  in  that'  Many  if.  He  became  Rudra  with  a  hundred 
heads,  a  hundred  eyes,  and  a  hundred  quivers.  Then  the  other  drops 
which  fell  from  him  in  unnumbered  thousands  entered  into  these  worlds. 
They  were  called  Rudras  because  they  sprang  from  him  when  he  had 
wept.  This  Rudr£  with  a  thousand  heads,  eyes,  and  quivers,  stood 
with  his  bow  strung,  &ftid'  arrows  on  the  string,  causing  terror,  and 
demanding  food.  The  gods  were  afraid  of  him.  7.  They  said  to  Pra-, 
jupati,  'We  are  afraid  of  this  being,  lest  he  destroy  us.'  Prajapati 
said  to  them,  '  Collect  for  him  food,  and  with  it  appease  him.'  They 
collected  for  him  this  food,  the  satarudriya,  and  with  it  they  appeased 
him.  From  the  fact  that  with  this  they  appeased  the  hundred-headed 
lludra,  it  is  'that  wherewith  the  hundred-headed  Rudra  is  to  be 
appeased'  (S'ata-sirsha-rudra-samaniyam}.  This  they  esoterically  call 
S'atarudriya;  for  the  gods  love  what  is  esoteric."  .  .  .  14.  "  'Reverence, 
Rudra,  to  thy  wrath'  (see  above,  p.  326,  verse  1).  (In  these  words) 
he  (the  priest)  expresses  reverence  to*Manyu,  who  stood  extended 
within  him  (Rudra).  '  Reverence  also  to  thy  arrow  and  thine  arms.' 
He  (the  god)  stood  causing  terror  with  his  arrow  and  arms." 

The  word  Hahadeva  occurs  in  the  Tandya  Hahabrahmana,  vi.  9,  7, 
Yam  samdm  MaJiadevah  pasun  hanyad  ityadi  \  "In  whatever  year 
Mahadeva  slays  cattle."  The  same  work,  vii.  9,  16  ff.,  makes  mention 
of  Rudra  in  connexion  with  cattle  or  v^tims :  Devdh  vai  pasun  vya- 
bhajanta  \  te  Rudram  antarayan  \  "The  gods  were  dividing  the  victims. 
They  passed  over  Rudra." 

In  the  descriptions  of  Mahadeva  which  are  found  in  the  passages 
quoted  in  the  last  chapter  from  the  Mahabharata,  though  that  deity  is 
occasionally  identified  wi^h  Agni,  as  he  is  with  other  gods  (see  above, 
p.  204),  he  is  generally  represented 'in  a  different  aspect,  and  tfith 
different  characteristics.  In  the  legend  of  the  birth  of  Skanda  or 
Karttibeya,96  however,  which  is  narrated  in  the  Yana-parvan  of  that 
poem,  we  find  some  trace  of  the  early  connexion  of  Rudra  with  Agni. 
We^re  there  told  that,  after  Skanda  had  been  installed  in  his  office  of 
general  of  the  gods  (v.  14424),  Mahadeva  ard  Parvatl  arrived: 

9R  Lassen  (Ind.  Ant.  i.  588,  note,  1st  ed.=p.  701,  2nd  ed.)  observes  that  this  legend 
differs  from  the  one  on  the  same  subject  in  the  Ramayana,  i.  38,  and  regards  the 
former  as  a  later  interpolation  in  the  Mahabharata. 


350  BIRTH  OF  K1RTTIKEYA 

14427  ff. — Agamya  manuja-vydghra  saha  devyd  parantapa  \  archa- 
ydmdsa  suprito  bhagavan  govrishf-dhvajah  \  Rudram  Agnim  dvijdh  prd- 
huh  Rudra-sunus  tatas  tu  sah  \  Rudrena  sulram  utsrishtam  tat  svetah 
parvato  'bhavat  \  Pdvakasyendriyafi}.  svete  krittikabhih  kritam  nage  \  pu- 
jyamdnam  tu  Rudrena  drishtvdrsarve  divaukasah  \  Rudra->3unum  tatah 

prdhur  Guham  gunavatdm  varam  \  anupravisya  Rudrena  vahnim  jdto  hy 
(• 

ayam  si£uh  \  tatra  jdtas  tatah  Skando  Rudra-sunufr  tato  'bhavat  \  Ru- 
drasya  Vahneh  Scdhdydh  shanndm  strmdfn  chh  Bhdrata  \  jdtah  Skandah 
isura-sreshtho  Rudra-sunub  tato  'bhavat  \ 

"The  god  whose  banner  is  a  bull,  arriving  with  his  goddess,  paid 
him  honour,  well  pleased.  Brahmans  call  Agni  Rudra;  consequently  he 
(Karttikeya)  is  the  son  of  Rudra.  The  seed  which  was  discharged  by 
Rudra  became  the  white  mountain.  And  the  seed  of  Pavaka  (Agni) 
was  formed  by  the  Krittikas  on  the  white  mountain.  Having  seen 
Guha  (Karttikeya)  thus  honoured  by  Rudra,  all  the  deities  consequently 
call  him,  who  is  the  most  excellent  of  the  gifted,  the  son  of  Rudra. 
For  this  child  was  produced  by  Rudra  when  he  had  entered  into  Fire. 
Being  there  born,  Skanda  waS  the  son  of  Rudra.  Skanda,  that  most 
eminent  deity,  being  born  from  Agni,  [who  was]  Rudra,  and  from 
Svaha  [and]  the  six  wives  [of  the  Rishis],  was  the  son  of  Rudra." 

The  allusions  in  this  passage  will  become  more  intelligible  if  I  give 
an  outline  of  the  preceding  part  of  the  allegorical  story,  which  com- 
mences with  v.  14241.  Indra  being  distressed  at  the  defeat  of  the 
armies  of  the  gods  (deva-send^  by  the  Danavas  (v.  14245  ff.)  is  medi- 
tating on  this  subject,  when  he  hears  the  cry  of  a  female  calling  for 
help,  and  asking  for  a  husband  to  protect  her.  Indra  sees  that  she  has 
been  seized  by  the  demon  Kesin,  with  whom  he  rt-monstrates ;  but  the 
demon  hurls  his  club  at  Indra,  who,  however,  splits  it  with  his  thunder- 
bolt. Kesin  is  disabled  in  the  next  stage  of  tjtieir  combat,  and  goes  off. 
Inftra  then  finds  out  from  the  fefiiale  that  her  name  is  Devasena  (army 
of  the  gods),  and  that  she  has  a  sister  called  Daityasena  (army  of  the 
Daityas),  and  that  they  are  both  daughters  of  Prajapati.  Her  sister, 
she  says,  loves  Kesin,  but  she  herself  does  not,  and  wishes  Indra  to 
find  for  her  a  proper  husband,  who  shall  be  able  to  overcome  ali  the 
enemies  of  the  gods.  In^.ra  takes  Devasena  with  him  to  Brahma  and 
desires  him  to  provide  her  with  a  martial  husband;  and  Brahma 
promises  that  a  helpmate  of  that  description  shall  be  born  (14279  f.). 


ACCORDING  TO  THE  MAHABHARATA.  351 

Indra  then  departs  with  Devasena.  It  happened  that  Vasishtha  and 
other  rishis  had  been  offering  a  sacrifice,  whither  the  gods  headed  by 
Indra  proceeded  to  drink  the  s>*ma-juice.  Agni  too,  being  invoked, 
descended  from  the  region  of  the  §un,  entered  into  the  fire,  received 
the  oblations  of  the  rishis,  and  presented  them  to  the  gods.  The  story 
then  proceeds  (v.  14287) : 

Nishkrdmams  cfldpy  apasyat  sa  patnis  teshdm  mahdtmandm  \  sveshv 
d£rameshupavishtdh  svapaMis  cha  tathd  sukham  \  rukma-vedi-nibhds 97  ids 
tu  chandra-lekhdh  ivdmaldh  \  hutdsandrchih-p^atimdh  sarvds  tdrdh  ivdd- 
bhutdh  |  set  tatra  tena  manasd  babhuva  kshubhitendriyah  \  patnir  drishfvd 
dvijendrdndrn  Vahnih  kdma-vasam  yayau  \  bhuyah  sa  chintaydmdsa  na 
nydyyam  kshubhito  hy  aham  \  sddhvyah  patnyo  dvijendrdndrn  akdmdh 
kdmaydmy  aham  \  naitdh  sakydh  may  a  drashtum  prashtum  vd  'py  ani- 
mittatah  \  gdrJiapatyam  samdvisya  tasmdt  pasydmy  abhikshnasah  \  sam- 
sprisann  iva  sarvds  tdh  Sikhabhih  kdnchana-prabhdh  \  pasyamdnas  cha 
mumude  gdrhapatyam  satndsritah  \  nirushya  tatra  suchiram  evam  Vah- 
nir  vasam  gatah  \  manas  tdsu  vinihkshipya  kdmaydno  vardngandh  \  kdma- 
santapta-hridayo  deha-tytiga-vinischitah  \  Kldbhe  brdhmana-strlndm  Agnir 
vanam  updgamat  \  Svdhd  tarn  Daksha-duJdtd  prathamam  kdmayat  tadd  I 
8d  tasya  chhidram  anvaichhach  chirdt-prabhriti  bhdvini  \  apmmattasya 
devasya  na  cha  pasyaty  aninditd  \  sd  tarn  jndtvd  yathdvat  tu  Vahnim 
vanam  updgatam  \  tattvatah  kdma-santaptam  chintaydmdsa  bhdvini  \ 
aham  saptarshi-patnlndm  kritvd  rupdni  Pdvakam  \  kamayishydmi  kd- 
mdrtd  tdsdm  rupena  mohitam  \  evam  kr^te  pritir  asya  kdmdvdptis  cha 
me  bhavet  \  S'ivd  bhdryd  tv  Angirasah  sila-rupa-gundnvitd  \  tasydh  sd 
prathamam  rupam  kritvd  devi  janddhipa  \  jagdma  Pdvakdbhydsam  tarn 
chovdcha  vardngana?  \  mqm  Agne  kdma-santaptdm  tvam  kdmayitum 
arhasi  \  karishyasi  na  ched  evam  mritdm  mdm  upadhdraya  \  aham 
Angiraso  bhdryd  S'ivd-^idmd  Hutdsana  \  sishtdbhih  prahitd  prdptd 
mantrayitvd  vinischayam  \  Agnir  uvGcha  \  kathain  mdm  tvam  vijdMshe 
kdmdrtam  itardh  katham  \  yds  tvayd  klrtitdh  sarvdh  saptarshmdm 
priydh-istriyah  \  S'ivd  uvdcha  \  asmdkaih  tvam  priyo  nityam  bibhlmas  tit 
vayaih  tava  \  tvachchittam  ingitair  jndtvd  preshitd  'smi  tavdntikam  \ 
matihundyeha  samprdptd  kdmam  prdptum  drutam  chara  \  ydmayo  mdm 

j 

97  In  Ramayana  iii.  32,  5,  Ravana  is  described  as  RuJcma-vedi-gatam,  which  the 
Commentator  explains  as  ruJcma-vedim  praptam  hiranyesh^aka-chitam  vedim  praptam  \ 
"  mounted  on  a  platform  of  golden  bricks."  » 


352  KARTTIKEYA  THE  SOX  OF  AGNI-RUDRA, 

pratlkshante  gamishydmi  Hutdsana  \  Mdrkandeyah  uvdcha  \  tato 
upayeme  tarn  S'ivdm  pritdm  muddtyutah  \  prltyd  devl  samdyuktd  sukram 
jagrdha  pdnind  \  achintayad  mamedam'ye  rupttm  drakshyanti  frdnane  \  te 
brdhmanindm  anritam  dosham  vakstyanti  Pdvake  \  tasmdd  etnd  raksha- 
mdnd  Garudl  sambhavdmy  aham  \  \-andd  nirgamanam  chaiva  sukham  mama 
bhavishyati  \  Suparni  sd  tadd  bhutvd  nirjagdma  mahdvandt  \  apasyat 
parvatam  svetam  sara-stambaih  susamvritam  \  drishtlvishaih  sapta-sirshair 
guptam  bhogibhir  adbhutaih  \  rakshobhis  cha  pi&dctiiais  cha  raudrair  bhuta- 
ganais  tathd  \  rdkshasibhis^cha  sampurnam  anelcaischa  mriga-dvijaih  \  sd 
tatra  sahasd  gatvd  saila-prishthaih  sudurgamam  \  prdksMpat  kdnchane 
Icunde  sukram  sd  tvaritd  subhd  \  saptdndm  api  sd  devl  saptarshindm 
mahdtmandm  \  patrii-sarupatdm  kritvd  kdmaydmdsa  Pdvakam  \  divya- 
rupam  Arundhatydh  kartum  na  sakitam  tayd  \  tasyds  tapah-prabhdvena 
bhartuh  susrushanena  cha  \  shatkritvas  tat  tu  nihkshiptam  Agneh  retah 
Kuruttama  \  tasmin  kunde  pratipadi  kdminyd  Svdhayd  tadd  \  tat  skan- 
nam  tejasd  tatra  samvritam  janayat  sutam  \  rishibhih  pujitam  skannam 
anayat  Skandatdm  tatah  \  shat-sirdh  dviguna-srotro  dvddasdkshi-bhuja- 

kramah  \  eka-grlvaika-jathamh  kumdrah  samapadyata  \ 

v.  14514:  Yadd  Skandena  mdtrlndm  evam  etat  priyam  kritam  \  ta- 
thainam  abravlt  Svdhd  "mama  putras  tvam  aurasah  \  ichhdmy  aham 
tvayd  dattdm  prltim  parama-durlabJidm  "  |  turn  abrdvit  tatah  Skandah 
prltim  ichhasi  kidrislm  \  Svdhd  uvdcha  \  Dakshasydham  priyd  kanyd 
Svdhd  ndma  mahdbhuja  \  bdlydt  prabhriti  nityancha  jdta-kdmd  Hutd- 
£ane  \  na  sa  mum  kdmiriim  putra  samyag  jtindti  Pdvakah  \  ichhdmi 
Sdsvatam  vdsam  vastum  putra  sahdgnind  \  Skandah  ^^vdcha  \  Havyam 
kavyancha  yat  kinchid  dvydnum  mantra-samstutam  \  hoshyanty  Agnau 
sadd  devi  svdhety  uktvd  sainuddhritam  \  adya  grabhrUi  ddsyanti  suvrittdh 
sat-pathe  sthitdh  \  evam  Agnis  tvayd  sdrdham  sadd  vatsyati  sobhane  \ 
Mdrkandeyah  uvacha  \  evam  uktd  tatah  Svdhd, tushtd  Skandena pujitd  \ 
Pdvakena  samdyuktd  bhartrd  Sk'andam  apujayat  \  tato  Brahma  Mahd- 
senam  Prajdpatir  athdbravit  \  abhigachha  Mahddevam  pitaram  tripurdr- 
danam  \  Rudrendgniih  samdvisya  svdhdm  dvisya  chomaud  \  hitdrthani 
sarva-lokdndm  jdtas  tyam  apardjitah  \ 

"  Issuing  forth,  he  beheld  the  wives  of  these  great  [rishis]  reclining 
in  their  own  hermitages,  arad  sweetly  sleeping,  resembling  golden  altars, 
pure  as  beams  of  the  moon,  like  to  flames  of  fire,  all  wonderful  as  stars. 
Perceiving  that,  his  senses  became  agitated.  Beholding  the  wives  of 


SVAHA,.  AND  THE  SIX  RISHIS'  WIVES.  353 

the  Brahmans,  Agni  was  overcome  by  desire.  Again  and  again  he 
reflected,  'It  is  not  proper  that  1 1 should  be  thus  agitated:  I  am 
enamoured  of  the  chaste  spouses  pf  the  Brahmans,  who  are  not  in  love 
with  me.  They  cannot  be  looked  upon  or  questioned  by  me  without 
reason.  Entering  into  the  domestic  fye,  I  shall  gaze  upon  them  close 
at  hand.'  Entering  the  domestic  fire,  touching,  as  it  were,  with  his 
flames,  all  of  them,  who  were  bright  as  gold,  *and  beholding  them,  he 
was  delighted.  Dwelling  thus  there  for  a  long  time,  fixing  his  atten- 
tion upon  these  beautiful  women,  and  enamoured  of  them,  Agni  was 
overcome.  His  heart  being  distressed  with  desire,  Agni,  failing  to 
obtain  the  Brahmans'  wives,  resolved  to  abandon  his  corporeal  form, 
and  went  into  the  forest.  Then  Svaha,  the  daughter  of  Daksha,  first 
fell  in  love  with  him.  This  amorous  and  blameless  goddess  for  a  long 
time  sought  for  his  weak  point,  but  as  the  god  was  watchful,  she  could 
not  find  any.  But  being  perfectly  aware  that  he  had  gone  into  the 
wood,  and  that  he  was  really  disturbed  by  desire,  the  amorous  goddess 
thus  reflected :  '  I,  who  am  distressed  by  love,  will  take  the  forms  of 
the  seven  rishis'  wives,  and  will  court  the  affection  of  Agni,  who  is 
enchanted  by  their  beauty.  By  doing  so  he  will  be  pleased,  and  I 
shall  obtain  my  desire.'  Assuming  first  the  form  of  S'iva,  the  wife  of 
Angiras,  who  possessed  a  good  disposition,  beauty,  and  excellent 
qualities,  the  handsome  goddess  (Svaha)  went  to  Agni,  and  thus  ad- 
dressed him :  '  Agni,  thou  oughtest  to  love  me,  who  am  disturbed 
with  love  for  thee :  if  thou  wilt  not  d,o  so,  look  upon  me  as  dead. 
Agni,  I,  S'iva,  the  wife  of  Angiras,  have  come,  sent  by  virtuous 
women,  and  having  considered'  my  determination.'  Agni  replied: 

'  How  dost  thou,  anil  how  do  all  the  other  beloved  wives  of  the  seven 

> 

rishis  whom  thou  mentionest,  know  that  I  am  distressed  with  love  ? ' 
S'iva  answered :  '  Thou  ,hast  always  been  beloved  by  us,  but  we  are 
afraid  of  thee.  Knowing  thy  heart  by  external  signs,  I  have  been  sent 
to  thee.  I  have  come  to  be  embraced :  come  quickly  and  fulfil  thy 
desire..,  The  other  females  are  awaiting  me  ;  I  shall  depart,  Hutasana 
(Agni).'  Agni  then  with  joy  embraced  the  delighted  S'iva.  The  god- 
dess* filled  with  delight  took  his  seed  in  her  hand.  She  reflected,  'All 
those  who  shall  see  this  form  of  mine  in  thi  forest  will  falsely  allege 
the  transgression  of  Brahmans'  wives  with  Agni.  Wherefore  preserving 
this,  I  shall  become  Garud! ;  and  thus  my  egress  from  the  wood  will 


354  BIRTH  OF  KARTTIKEYA. 

become  easy.  She  then,  becoming  SuparnI,  issued  from  the  great 
forest,  and  beheld  the  white  mountain  surrounded  by  palisades  of 
arrows,  guarded  by  wondrous  seven-headed  serpents,  whose  very 
glance  was  venomous,  by  Rakshasas,  Pisachas,  and  by  hosts  of  Rudra's 
demons,  filled  with  Rakshasis,  ajid  numerous  beasts  and  birds.  The 
beautiful  goddess,  having  then  gone  quickly  to  the  summit  of  the 
mountain,  which  was  difficult  of  access,  hastily  threw  the  seed  into 
a  golden  reservoir.  Thus  this  goddess,  assuming  in  succession  the  re- 
semblance of  the  wives  of  the  seven  great  rishis,  loved  Agni.  But  she 
could  not  take  the  divine  form  of  Arundhati  (the  wife  of  Yasishtha), 
owing  to  the  power  of  the  latter's  austerity,  and  her  obedience  to  her 
husband.  Six  times  was  the  seed  of  Agni  thrown  by  the  enamoured 
Svaha  into  the  reservoir  on  the  pratipad  (the  first  day  of  the  lunar 
fortnight).  Discharged  there  and  collected,  that  seed  by  its  energy 
generated  a  son.  That  [seed]  which  was  discharged  (slcanna),  being 
worshipped  by  the  rishis,  gave  to  this  son  his  character  of  Skanda. 
Kumara  (Karttikeya)  was  born  with  six  heads,  a  double  number  of 
ears,  twelve  eyes,  arms,  and  feet,  one  neck,  and  one  belly."  Kartti- 
keya marries  Devasena  (vv.  14446  ff.).  The  six  rishis'  wives,  his 
mothers,  afterwards  come  to  him,  complaining  that  they  had  been 
abandoned  by  their  husbands,  and  degraded  from  their  former  position, 
and  asking  him  to  secure  their  admission  into  paradise  (svarga).  The 
story  then  proceeds  (v.  14514  ff.):  "When  Skanda  had  done  what 
was  gratifying  to  his  mothers,  jSvaha  said  him,  '  Thou  art  my  genuine 
son  :  I  desire  the  love,  difficult  to  obtain,  which  thou  givest.'  Skanda 
then  asked  her,  'What  love  dost  thou 'desire  ?'  Svaha  replied,  'I  am 
the  beloved  daughter  of  Daksha,  by  name  Svaha.  -From  my  childhood 
I  have  been  enamoured  of  Agni.  But,  my  son,  Agni  does  not  thoroughly 
know  me,  who  am  enamoured  of  him.  I  w\sh  to  dwell  perpetually 
with  Agni.'  Skanda  rejoined:  'Whatever  oblation  of  Brahmans  is 
introduced  by  hymns,  they  shall  always,  goddess,  lift  and  throw  it 
into  the  fire,  saying,  "Svaha."  From  this  day  forward,  virtuous  men, 
abiding  in  the  right  path,  shall  grant  [thee  this].  Thus,  0  beautiful 
goddess,  Agni  shall  dwell  with  thee  continually.'  Being  thus  addressed 
by  Skanda,  Svaha,  gratified,  worshipped  by  Skanda,  and  united  with 
Agni  as  her  husband,  worshipped  Skanda.  Then  Brahma  Prajapati 
said  to  Mahasena  (Skanda),  '  Go  to  thy  father  Mahadeva,  the  vexer  of 


QUOTATION  FROM  THE  STETAS'VATAEA  UPANISHAD.      355 

Tripura.  Thou  unconquered  hast  been  produced  for  the  good  of  all 
worlds  by  Rudra  who  had  entered  into  Agni,  and  Uma  who  had  entered 
into  Svaha.' "  '  * 

i 
SECT.  V. — Passages  relating  to*Rudra  in  the  Upanishads. 

To  the  preceding  passages,  descriptive  of  Rud^a,  from  the  Brahmanas, 
I  shall  now  subjoih  a  few  of  a  different  character  from  the  TJpanishads. 

The  first  is  from  th*e  fe'vetasvatara  Upanishad  (Bibliotheca  Indica, 
vol.  vii.,  pp.  323  ff.): 

SVetasvaratara  Upanishad,  iii.  1  ff. —  Yah  eko  jdlavdn  isate  Isariilhih 
sarvtin  loTcdn  Isate  tsanllhih  \  yah  eva  elcah  udbhave  sambhave  cha  ye  etad 
vidur  amritds  te  lhavanti  \  2.  Eko  hi  Rudro  na  dvitiydya  tasthur96  yak 
imdn  loJcdn  isate  isanlbhih  \  pratyan  jandms  tishthati  sanchulcopdnta- 
hlle"  samsrijya  visvd  Ihuvandni  gopdh  \  3.  (R.Y.  x.  81,  3,  above,  p.  5.) 
Visvatas-chaJcshur  uta  visvato-mukho  visvato-bdhur  uta  visvatas-pat  \  sam 
bdhubhydm  dhamati sam patatrair  dydvdlJiumlm  (sic^janayan  devah  elcah\ 
4.  Yo  devdndm  prabhavas  chodbhavaS  cha  visvddhipo  Rudro  maharshih  \ 
Hiranyagarlham  janaydmdsa  purvam100  sa  no  buddhyd  subhayd  sam- 
yunaktu  \  5  and  6=Vaj.  S.  xvi.  2,  3  (see  above,  p.  322)  .  .  .  .  iv.  21. 
Ajdtah  ity  evam  Icaschid  Ihlruh  pratipadyate  \  Rudra  yat  te  dahhinaiy 
mukham  tena  mdm  pdhi  nityam  \  22=R.Y.  i.  114,  8,  and  Yaj.  S.  xvi. 
16  with  various  readings  (see  above,  pp.  303  and  323).  "He  who 

alone,  the  enchanter,  rules  by  his  powers,  rules  all  worlds  by  his 

i 

98  These  words  no,  dvitlyaya  tasthuh  appear  to  be  established  as  the  current  read- 
ing of  this  passage ;  and  a  reading  partly  similar  (with  variations  in  other  respects) 
will  be  found  below  in  a  corresponding  verse  which  occurs  in  the  Atharva-s'iras.    The 
commencement  of  the  vSrse  is,  however,  also  found  in  the  Nirukta,  i.  15,  where  the 
reading  is  different  and  preferable,  eJcah  eva  Eudro  'vatasthe  na  dvitlyah;  and  Siiyana, 
in  his  commentary  on  the  Eig-veda  (quoted  in  vol.  iii.  of  this  work,  p.  60),  gives  the 
words  thus,  ekah  eva  Rudro  xa  dvitlyo  'vatasthe.     Durga,  the  commentator  on  the 
Nirukta,  as  cited  by  Eoth  (Illust.  of  Nir.,  p.*12,  note  4),  quotes  the  whole  verse  as 
follows  (without  saying  from  what  work  it  is  taken) :  Ekah  eva  Eudro  'vatasthe  na 
dvifiyo  rane  vighnan  pritanasn  satrun  \  samsrijya  vis'va  bhuvanani  gopta  pratyan 
janan  sanchukosanta-kale  \    "One  only  Eudra  has  existed  and  no  second;   slaying 
his  enemies  in  the*  conflicts  of  the  battle.     Having  created  all  worlds,  a  protector,  he 
draws  back  all  beings  into  himself  at  the  time  of  the  end."  * 

99  vThe  proper  reading  is  probably  sanchukocha.     See  the  last  note ;  and  Bohtlingk 
and  Eoth,  s.v.  kuch-\-sam  ;  where  sanchukocha  is  giveS  as  the  proper  reading,  instead 
of  sanchukosa,  which  is  found  in  Eoth's  Illust.  of  Nirukta,  p.  12,  note  4. 

100  These  two  words  are  varied  below,  4, 12,  thus :  pasyatajuyamanam,  i.e.  "beheld 
Hiranyagarbha  being  born."    The  rest  of  th-*  verse  remains  the  same. 


356  PASSAGE  FROM  THE  ATHARVAS'IRAS 

powers,  he  who  in  origination  and  in  production  is  alone, — they  who 
know  this  become  immortal.  2t  For  Eudra  who  rules  these  worlds 
by  his  powers,  is  but  one;  [the  wise]  do"  not  assert  (?)  a  second. 
Having,  a  preserver,  created  all/  worlds,  he  abides  in  men  seve- 
rally; he  displays  his  wrath  (absorbs  them?)  at  the  time  of  the 
end.  3.  This  one  god?  who  has  on  every  side  eyes,  on  every  side  a 
face,  on  every  side  arms,  on  every  side  feet,  wKen  producing  the 
heaven  and  earth,  fashions  them  with  his  arms  and  with  his  wings. 
4.  May  Eudra,  the  lord  of'  all,  the  great  rishi,  the  cause  of  production 
and  the  source  of  the  gods,  who  first  generated  Hiranyagarbha, — may 

he  put  us  in  possession  of  an  excellent  understanding Hid.  iv. 

21.  Some  fearful  man  concludes  thus — '[Thou  art]  unborn.'  Eudra, 
protect  me  with  thy  southern  face." 

The  next  passage  is  from  the  commencement  of  the  Atharva-s*iras 101 
TJpanishad.  The  MSS.  which  I  have  consulted  vary  very  much  in 
their  readings : 

Devdh  ha  vai  svargam  lokam  agaman  \  te  devdh  Rudram  aprichchhan 
"  ko  bhavdn  "  iti  \  so  'bravld  "  aham  ekah  prathamam  dsaih  vartdmi  cJia 
lhavishydmi  cha  tut  anyah  kaschid  matto  vyatiriktah  "  iti  \  so  'ntardd  anta- 
ramprdvisad  disascha  antaram  samprdvisat  \  "so  'ham  nity  unity  o  vyaktd- 
vyakto  '  ham  Brahmdbrahma  ahamprdnchah  pratyancho  'ham  dakshindncha 
[dakshinds  cha?~]  udancho  'ham  adhascha  wrddhvancha  disascha  pratidi£as- 
cha  aham  pumdn  apumdn  strl  cha  aham  sdvitry  aham  gdyatry  aham 
trishtub  jagaty  anushtup  cha  aham  chhando  'harn  gdrhapatyo  dakshindgnir 
dhavanlyo  'ham  satyo  'ham  gaur  aham  Gaury  ahamjyeshtho  'ham  sreshtho 
'ham  varishtho  'ham  dpo  'ham  tejo  'ham  rig-yajuh-sdmdtharvdngira.so 
'ham  aksharam  aham  ksharam  aham  guhyo  'hem  go/yo  'ham  aranyo  'ham 
pushkaram  aham  pavitram  aham  agrancha  madhyancha  vahischa  purastdj 
jyotir  ity-  aham  ekah  \  sarvancha  mum  eva  mdtr  yo  veda  sa  sarvdn  devdn 
veda  I  gain  gobhir  brdhmandn  brdKmanyena  havlmshi  havishd  dyur  dyushd 
sati/am  satyena  dharmam  dharmena  tarpaydmi  svena  tej'asd  "  \  tato  devdh 
Rudram  na  apasyams  te  devdh  Rudram  dhydyanti  tato  devdh  'urdhva- 
bdhavah  stuvanti  yo,vai  Rudrah  sa  bhagavdn  yas  cha  Brahma  tasma^ 
vat  namo  namah  \  yo  vai  Rudrah  sa  bhagavdn  yascha  Vishnus  tcfxmai 
vai  namo  namah  \  yo  vai  Rudrah  sa  lhagavdn  yascha  Mahesvaras  tasmai 

101  A  work  called  Atharva-s'iras  is  mentioned  in  the  passage  of  the  Ramayana,  i. 
14,  2,  quoted  above,  p.  165  f.  See  "Weber's  Indische  Studien,  i.  382  ff. ;  and  ii.  53  ff. 


UPANISHAD  REGARDING  RUDRA.  357 

vai  namo  namah  \  yo  vai  Rudrah  sa  lhagavdn  yd  cha  Umd  tasmai  .  .  .  .  | 
yo  vai  Rudrah  sa  lhagavdn  yascha  ffindyakas  tasmai  .  .  .  .  |  yo  vai 
Rudrah  ....  yascha,  Slsandah  t  .  .  .  |  yo  vai  Rudrah  ....  yascha 
Indrah  ,  .  .  .  \  yo  vai  Rudrah  ....  yascha  Agnih,  .  .  .  .  |  yo  vai 
Rudrah  .  ...  yd  cha  Bhuh  .  .  .  ,,  |  yo  vai  Rudrah  ....  yascha 
Bhuvah  ....  |  om  ddau  madhye  Ihur  Ihuvah  suvar  ante  slrsham 
janadom  m  visva-t*ipo  'si  \  Brahma  ekas  tvam  avitridhd  urdhvam  adhas 
cha  tvam  sdntischa  tvam  ytushtischa  tvam  tushtischa  tvam  hutam  ahutam 
visvam  avisvam  dattam  adattam  kritam  akpitam  param  aparam  para- 
yanancha  iti  \  "apdma  somam103  amritdh  ahhuma  aganmajyotir  aviddma 
devdn  \  him  nunam  asmdn  Icrinavad  ardtih  kim  u  dhurtir  amrita  mart- 
yasya"  \  (E..Y.  viii.  48,  3)  |  sarva-jagaddhitam  vai  etad  alcsharam prujd- 
patyam  sukshmam  saumyam  purusham  agrdhyam  agrdhyena  Vayum 
vdyavyena  somam  saumyena  grasati  svena  tej'asd  \  tasmai  upasamhartre 
mahdgrdsdya  vai  namo  namah  \  hridisthdh  devatdh  sarvdh  hridi  prdne 
pratishthitdh  \  hridi  tvam  asi  yo  nityam  tisro  mdtrdh  paras  tu  sah  \ 
tasya  uttaratah  siro  dalcshinatah  pddau  yah  uttaratah  sa  omkdrah  \  yah 
omkdrah  sa  pranavo  yah  pranavah  sa  'sarva-vydpi  yah  sarva-vydpl  so, 
'nanto  yo  'nantas  tat  tdramwi  yat  tdram  tat  sukshmam  yat  sukshmam 
tat  suklam  yat  suklam  tad  vaidyutam  yad  vaidyutam  tat  param  Brahma 
iti  sa  ekah  \  sa  eko  Rudrah  sa  Isdnah  sa  lhagavdn  sa  Mahesvarah^a 
Mahddevah  \  atha  kasmdd  uchyate  omkdrah  \  yasmdd  uchchdryamdnah 
eva  sarvaih  sarlram  unndmayati  tasmdd  uchyate  omkdrah  ....  atha 
kasmad  uchyate  ekah  \  yah  sarvdn  lokti/i  udgrihndti™5  srijati  visrijati 
vdsayati  tasmdd  uchyate  ekah  \  atha  kasmdd  uchyate  eko  Rudrah  \  "eko 
Rudro  na  dvitiydya  tasthe  (sthitavdn  \  advitlyah  eva  sthitavdn  \  Comm.) 
turlyam  imam  loka.n  Isate  Isaniyur  (niyamana-saktimdn  \  Comm.)  j'ananl- 
yuh  (visvotpddaka-saktimdn  \  Comm.)  |  pratyan  jands  tisthanti  samyug 

» 

102  The  commentator  explains  this  thus :  tS'lrsham  siro  mantrah  svaha  ity  evamru- 
pah  |  janadom  janada  iti  karmopalakshanartham  akshara-trayam  \  janam  janim  tad- 
upalakshita-janimad  vastu-jatftm  tad  dadati  iti  janadah\  tasya  sambodhanam  j  Instead 
of  the*words  in  the  text,  another  MS.  reads,  bhus  te  adir  madhyam  bhuvas  te  svas  te 
slrsham  visvarupo  'si. 

^3  Umaya  Brahma-vidya-svarupinya  Katyayanya  sa\a  vartate  iti  Somas  tarn  \ 
[SSma  is  t\ms=:sa-\-Uma,  "with  Uma"]  yatah  somam  apama  tatah  amritah  marana- 
hetubhir  avidya-tat-karya-samskarair  vivarjitah  abXuma  sampannah  \  — Comm. 

104  Tarayati,  "delivers  :"  that  which  delivers. — Comm. 

105  Urdhva-moktham  atmani  grihnati  \  — Comm. 


358  PASSAGE  FBOM  THE  ATHAKVAS'IRAS 

asydntakdle  samhritya  visvd  bhuvdnani  goptd "  ]  tasmad  uchyate  eko 
jRudrahm\  atha  kasmdd  uchyate  Isdno  "yah  sarvdn  lokdn  Isate  Isanibhir" 
jananlbhih  parama-saktibhih  \  f'abhi,,tvd  sura  nonumah  adugdhdh  iva 
dhenavah  \  Isdnam  asya  jagatah  svardrisam  Isdnam  Indra  tastushah  "  | 
(R.V.  vii.  32,  22)  |  tasmad  uchyate  Isdnah  |  .  .  .  .  atha  kasmdd  uchyate 
Mahesvarah  \  yah  sarvdn  lokdn  sambhakshah  sambhakshayaty  ajasram 
srijati  visrijati  vdsayati  tasmad  uchyate  Maheivarah  \  atha  kasmdd 
uchyate  Nahddevah  \  yah  sarvdn  bhdvdn  parityajya  dtma-jndna-yogais- 
varye  mahati  mahlyate  tasn.'2d  uchyate  Ifahddevah  \  tad  etad  (etad  ntima- 
nirukti-rupam  charitam  \  Comm.)  Rudra-charitam  \  "  esho  ha  devah 
pradiso  'nu  sarvdh  purvo  ha  jdtah  sa  u  garbhe  antah  \  sa  eva  jdtah  sa 
janishyamdnah  pratyan  jands  tishthati  visvato-muhhah"  \  (Vaj.  S.  32,  4)| 
"  visvatas-chakshur  uta  visvato-mukho  visvato-bdhur  uta  visvatas-pdt  \ 
sam  bdhubhydm  dhamati  sam  patatrair  dydvd-prithivl  janayan  devah 
ekah"  |  (E..Y.  x.  81,  3)  |  ....  Rudre  ekatvam  (aikyam  \  Comm.) 
dhuh  |  Rudram  sdsvatam  vai  purdnam  ityddi  ....  |  watam  etat 
pdsupatam  \  Agnir  iti  bhasma  Vdyur  iti  bhasmajalam  iti  bhasma  sthalam 
iti  bhasma  vyoma  iti  bhasma  sarvam  ha  vai  idam  bhasma  manah  etdni 
chakshumshi  bhasmdni  \  "  Agnir •"  ityddind  bhasma  grihltvd  nimrijya 
angdni  samspriset  \  tasmad  vratam  etat  pdsupatam  pasu-pdsa-vimokshdya  \ 
y\>  'tharva-siram  brdhmano  'dhite  so  'gni-puto  bhavati  \  sa  vdyu-puto 
bhavati  \  sa  dditya-puto  bhavati  \  sa  soma-puto  bhavati  \  sa  satya-bhuto 
bhavati  sa  sarva-bhuto  bhavati  \  sa  sarveshu  tlrtheshu  sndto  bhavali  \  sa 
sarveshu  vedeshv  adhlto  bhavatj,  \  sa  sarva-veda-vrata-charydsu  charito 
bhavati  \  sa  sarvair  devair  jndto  bhavati  \  sa  sarva-yajna-kratubhir 
ishtavdn  bhavati  \  tena  itihdsa-purdndndm  Rudrdndm  sata-sahasrdni 
japtdni  bhavanti  \  gdyatrydh  sata-sahasram  japtam  bhavati  \  pranavandm 
ayutamjaptam  bhavati  \  rupe  rupe  (pdthe  pdthe  pratipdtham  \  Comm.) 
dasa-purvdn  pundti  dasottardn  d  chakshushah  panktim  pundti  itydha 
bhagavdn  Atharva-siro  ' ' tharva-sirc.h  (abhydsah  ddardrthah  \  Comm.)  j 
sakrijjaptvd  suchihputah  karmanyo  bhavati  \  dvitiyamjaptvd  gdna/patyam 
(sarva-niyantritvam  \  Comm)  avdpnoti  triilyam  japtvd  devam  ev@  anu- 
pravisaty  om  satyam  \  "  yo  Rudro  agnau  yo  apsv  antar  ya  oshadhlr 
vlrudhah  dvivesa  \  ya  imd  visvd  bhuvandni  chdklripe  tasmai  Rudr&ya 
namo  'stu  Agnaye"  \  (A.  \.  vii.  87,  1,  above,  p.  333). 

106  In  another  MS.  a  different  answer  is  given  to  this  question :  Tasmad  rishibhir 
na  any  air  bhaktair  drutam  asya  rupam  upalabhyate  \  "He  is  called  'Rudra'  because 
liis  form  is  quickly  (drutam}  perceived  bj  rishis,  and  not  by  other  devout  persons." 


UPANISHAD  REGARDING  RUDRA.  359 

"  The  gods  went  to  heaven.  They  asked  Eudra,  '  Who  art  thou  ? ' 
He  said,  '  I  alone  was  before  [all  things],  and  I  exist,  and  I  shall  be. 
~No  other  transcends  me.'»  He  entered  into  one  space  after  another,  and 
into  the  space  of  the  sky.  '  I  am  eternal  and  not  eternal,  discernible 
and  undiscernible,  I  am  Brahma,  I  a,m  not  Brahma,107  I  am  the  east- 
ern, western,  southern,  northern  [breaths,  etc.,  Comm.J,  I  am  below 
and  above,  the  regions,  and  the  intermediate  regions,  I  am  male, 
eunuch,  and  female,  I  tarn  the  Savitrl,  I  the  Gayatrl,  I  the  Trishtubh, 
Jagati,  and  Anushtubh  (metres),  I  am  metite,  I  am  the  household,  the 
southern,  and  the  ahavanlya  fires,  I  am  true,  I  am  the  earth  (or  cow), 
I  am  Grauri,108 1  am  the  eldest,  I  am  the  chief,  I  am  the  most  excellent, 
I  am  the  waters,  I  am  brilliancy,  I  am  the  Eik,  Tajush,  Saman, 
Atharvangirases,  I  am  the  undecaying,  I  the  decaying,  I  the  mysteri- 
ous, I  the  secret,  I  dwell  in  the  forests,  I  am  the  pushkara  (sacrificial 
jar),  the  filter,  the  end,  the  middle,  the  outside,  the  front,  and  light, 
— I  alone.  He  who  knows  me  only,  me,  to  be  all,  knows  all  the 
gods.  By  my  own  energy  I  satisfy  the  earth  with  rays  (or  the  cow 
with  cows),  the  Brahmans  with  brahmanhood,  oblations  with  oblation, 
life  with  life,  truth  with  truth,  righteousness  with  righteousness.' 
Then  the  gods  did  not  behold  lludra.  They  meditate  upon  him. 
Then  the  gods,  with  arms  raised  aloft,  praise  him :  '  He  who  is  End? a 
is  divine,  and  he  who  is  Brahma,  to  him  be  adoration.  He  who  is 
Eudra  is  divine,  and  he  who  is  Vishnu,  to  him  be  adoration.  He 
who  is  Eudra  is  divine,  and  he  who  is  JJahesvara,  to  him  be  adoration. 
He  who  is  Eudra  is  divine,  and  he  who  is  TJma,  to  him  be  adoration. 
He  who  is  Eudra,  etc.,  and  he  who  is  Vinayaka,  to  him  be  adoration. 
He  who  is  Eudra,»etc.,  and  he  who  is  Skanda,  to  him  be  adoration. 
He  who  is  Eudra,  etc.,  and  he  who  is  Indra,  to  him  be  adoration. 
He  who  is  Eudra,  etc.,  pnd  he  who  is  Agni,  etc.  He  who  is  Eudra, 
etc.,  and  he  who  is  Bhuh,  etc.  Hs  who  is  Eudra,  etc.,  and  he  who 
is  Bhuvah,  etc.  (In  the  same  way  Eudra  is  identified  with  suvah 
[_svafi\;  mahah;  jana;  tapais  ;  satya;  priihwl;  apas;  tejas;  vayu; 
ukdsa  ;  surya ;  soma;  nalcshatruni  ;  ashtau  grahah ;  pruna;  kdla; 
Yama ;  mrityu;  amrita ;  Ihuta;  lhavya;  bhavishyat;  visva;  kritsna; 

107   Vakyabhyaso  rupasya  atmano  vastavatva-pradarsanarthah  |  Coram.     I  should 
rather  suppose,  however,  that  the  second  word  is  not  Erahma,  but  abrahma. 
lu8  S'iva-priya  |  ashtavarsha  fa  kumarl  gaura-v arna  bala-tata  (?)  tu  |  Comm. 


360  TRANSLATION  OF  PASSAGE 

sarva;  and  satya.}  Om!  at  the  beginning,  and  in  the  middle  are  Bhur, 
Bhuvah,  Svah ;  at  the  end  is  the, head.  0  giver  of  life,  Om,  thou  art 
universal-formed.  Thou  alone  art  Brahma  d'oubly,  and  triply,  above 
and  below;  thou  art  gentleness,  fatness,  contentment;  thou  art  the 
thing  sacrificed,  and  the  thing  qot  sacrificed,  the  whole,  and  not  the 
whole,  what  is  given,  and  what  is  not  given,  what  is  done,  and  what 
is  not  done,  that  which  is  supreme,  and  not  supreme,  and  what  is 
surpassing.  '  We  have  drunk  the  Soma,  we*  have  become  immortal, 
we  have  entered  into  ligh't,  we  have  known  the  gods.  What  can  an 
enemy  now  do  to  us  ?  What  can  the  malice  of  any  mortal  effect,  0 
immortal  god? ' m  This  imperishable  [principle],  beneficial  to  the  whole 
world,  sprung  from  [or,  having  the  nature  of,]  Prajapati,  subtile,  beauti- 
ful, by  its  own  energy  swallows  up  the  incomprehensible  Purusha  by  the 
incomprehensible,  Vayu  by  that  which  has  the  nature  of  Vayu,  soma  by 
that  which  has  the  nature  of  soma.110  To  him  the  destroyer,  the  great 
devourer,  be  adoration.  All  the  gods  reside  in  the  heart,  situated  in 
the  heart  and  the  breath.  Thou  who  art  continually  in  the  heart, 
[art]  the  three  letters,  but  he  is  beyond.  To  the  north  of  him  is  the 
head,  to  the  south  the  feet;  that  which  is  the  north  is  the  omkara. 
The  omkara  is  the  pranava,  which  (pranava)  again  is  all -pervading, 
which  ('all-pervading')  again  is  infinite,  which  again  is  that  which 
delivers,  which  again  is  subtile,  which  again  is  white,  which  again  has 
the  nature  of  lightning,  which  again  is  the  supreme  Brahma  :  thus  he 
is  the  one.  He  is  the  only  Rudra,  he  is  Isana,  he  is  divine,  he  is  Mahes- 
vara,  he  is  Mahadeva.  Now  whence  does  the  omkara  get  its  name? 
Inasmuch  as  so  soon  as  it  is  uttered^  it  raises  up  the  whole  body, 
it  is  called  omkara."  (The  same  inquiry  is,  then  feade  and  answered 
in  regard  to  the  words  'pranava,'  ' sarvavyapin '  ['all-pervading'], 
'ananta'  ['infinite']  the  'deliverer,'  'subtile^  'white,'  'having  the 
nature  of  lightning,'  and  'the  sup'teme  Brahma.'  Then  'eka,'  'one,' 
is  explained.)  "Now  why  is  he  called  'one'?  He  who  evolves, 
creates,  variously  creates,  sustains  all  worlds,  is  therefore  called  the 

109  Quoted  in  the  third -volume  of  this  work,  p.  265.    According  to  the  commen- 
tator whom  I  have  quoted  under  the  text,  Soma  means  sa-\-uma,  he  who  dwells  with 
Uma,  in  the  form  of  divine  knowledge,  Katyayanl.     What  would  the  Vedic  rishi 
who  composed  the  verse  have  said  to  this  mystical  interpretation  ?    Such  explanations 
are  not,  however,  peculiar  to  the  adherents  of  any  one  religion. 

110  I  do  not  profess  to  understand  the,  sense  of  this. 


FROM  THE  ATHARVAS'IRAS  UPANISHAD.  361 

'one.'  Now  why  is  he  called  the  one  Rudra?  'There  is  only  one 
Rudra;  there  is  no  place  for  a  second.  He  rules  this  fourth  world, 
controlling  and  productive;  living  beings  abide  within  him  united 
with  him.  At  the  time  of  the  end  he  annihilates  all  worlds,  the 
protector.'*  "Wherefore  he  is  callei  the  one  Rudra.  Then  why 
is  he  called  Isana?  He  it  is  who  rules  all  worlds  by  his  ordi- 
nances, and  supreme  creative  powers.  '  We,  0  heroic  Indra,  like 
unmilked  cows,  approach*  with  our  praises  thee  who  art  the  heavenly 
lord  (Isana)  of  this  moving,  and  the  lord  of  this  stationary,  [world]. l\l 
Hence  he  is  called  'Isana.'  ('Bhagavat'  is  then  explained.)  Then 
why  is  he  called  Mahesvara  ?  He  who,  a  devourer,  constantly  devours, 
creates,  variously  creates,  sustains  all  worlds,  is  therefore  called  Mahes- 
vara. Then  why  is  he  called  Mahadeva?  He  who,  abandoning  all 
forms  of  being,  exults  in  the  great  divine  power  of  absorption  in  the 
knowledge  of  himself,  is  therefore  called  Mahadeva.  Such  is  the 
history  of  Rudra.  '  This  god  [abides]  throughout  all  regions ;  he 
was  the  first  born;  he  is  within  the  womb;  it  is  even  he  who  has 
been  born,  and  he  is  still  to  be  born ;  he  exists,  0  men,  pervading  all 
things,  with  his  face  turned  to  every  side.'  (Vaj.  S.  32,  4.)  '  The 
one  god,  who  has  on  every  side  eyes,  on  every  side  a  face,  on  every 
side  arms,  on  every  side  feet,  when  producing  the  earth  and  sky, 
fabricates  them  with  his  arms,  and  with  his  wings.'  "  (R.V.  x.  81,  3, 
above,  p.  6.)  ....  Rudra  is  mentioned  again  in  the  following  verses. 
"In  Rudra  they  say  there  is  oneness,  *nd  that  Rudra  is  eternal  and 
primeval,"  etc.  The  Pasupata  rite  is  thus  described:  "This  is  the 
Pasupata  observance ;  '  Agni  is'  ashes,  Yayu  is  ashes,  water  is  ashes, 
dry  land  is  ashes,  The  sky  is  ashes,  all  this  is  ashes,  the  mind,  these 
eyes,  are  ashes.'  Having  taken  ashes  while  pronouncing  these  preced- 
ing words,  and  rubbing  himself,  let  a  man  touch  his  limbs.  This  is 
the  Pasupata  rite,  for  the  removal  of  the  animal  bonds.  The  Brahman 
who  reads  the  Atharva-sira  is  purified  with  fire,  with  air,  with  the 
sun,  yrith  soma  (or  the  moon) ;  he  becomes  truth,  he  becomes  all,  he 
has  bathed  in  all  the  holy  places,  he  is  read  in  all  the  Vedas,  he  has 
practised  the  observances  prescribed  in  all  the  Vedas,  he  is  known 
by  all  the  gods,  he  has  sacrificed  with  aH.  sacrificial  rites;  by  him 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  itihasas,  puranas,  and  Rudras  (formulas 
111  R.V.  vii.  32,  22,  qupted  above,  p.  103. 


362  TEXTS  FROM  THE  UPANISHADS 

relating  to  Rudra),  and  a  hundred  thousand  Gayatris  have  been 
muttered,  ten  thousand  Oms  ha,ye  been  uttered ;  at  every  recitation 
he  purifies  ten  generations  of  ancestors,  and  4en  future  generations  of 
descendants;  he  purifies  a  row  of  t  men  as  far  as  the  eye  can  reach; 
thus  says  the  divine  Atharva-^iras.  Having  muttered  it  once,  he 
becomes  clean,  pure,  and  fit  for  the  ceremonial;  having  muttered  it 
a  second  time,  he  obtains  dominion  over  hosts ;  having  muttered  it  a 
third  time,  he  enters  into  the  god:  Om,  [this. is]  true.  'Adoration 
be  to  Rudra  Agni,  who  fesides  in  fire,  and  in  the  waters,  who  has 
entered  into  these  plants,  who  formed  all  these  worlds.'  " 

I  shall  not  make  more  than  a  few  further  extracts  from  this  mystical 
TFpanishad,  which  throws  little  light  on  Rudra' s  character  or  history. 
The  three  gods,  Brahma,  Vishnu,  and  Rudra,  are  mentioned  together, 
along  with  Indra  (Brahma-  Vishnu-Rudrendrdh) ;  and  S'ambhu  (one  of 
the  names  of  Rudra)  is  said  (in  a  passage  which  I  need  not  attempt 
to  translate  at  length)  to  be  possessor  of  all  divine  qualities, 
and  to  be  lord  of  all;  while  the  benefits  of  worshipping  him 
are  described  (kdranam  tu  dhyeyah  sarvaisvarya-sampannah  sarvesvaras 
cha  S'amlhuh  dkdsa-madhye  dhruvam  stabdhvd  'dhikam  kshanam  ekam 
kratusatasydpi  chatuh-saptatyd  yat  phalam  tad  avdpnoti  kritsnam  o>7i- 
karagatam  cha  sarva-dhydna-yoga-jndntindm  yat  phalam  tad  onikdra 
veda-para  iso  vd  siva  eko  dhyeyah  sivankarah  sarvam  any  at  parityajya'). 

In  the  Kaivalya  Upanishad  (translated  by  Prof.  Weber,  Ind.  Stud, 
ii.  10  ff.)  Asvalayana  asks  Bi^ihma  to  explain  to  him  the  science  of 
divine  things  (Athdsvaldyano  lhagavantam  parameshthinam  upasametya 
uvdcfta  adhihi  bhagavan  brahma-vidydtn  ityddi}.  Brahma  (pitdmaha) 
among  other  things  tells  him  as  follows :  AntytisrctMa-sthah  sakalendri- 
ydni  nirudhya  lhaktyd  sva-gurum  pranamya  \  hrit-pundarlkam  virajam 
visuddham  vichintya  madhye  visadam  visokatp,  \  anantam  avyaktam 
achintya-rupam  sivam  prasdntant-  amritam  brahma-yonim  |  tarn  tidi- 
madhydnta-vihlnam  ekam  vibhum  chiddnanda-svarupam  adbhutam  \  Umd- 
sahdyam  paramesvaram  prabJium  trilochaham  nlla-kantham  prasuntam  \ 
dhydtvd  munir  gachhati  Ihuta-yonim  samasta-sdkshim  tamasah  parastdt  \ 
sa  Brahma  sa  S'ivah  Sendrah  so  'ksharah  paramah  svardt  \  sa  eva  Vishnuh 
sa  prdnah  sa  dtmd  paramefrarah 1W  j  sa  eva  sarvam  yad  bhutam  yachcha 
bhavyam  sandtanam  \jndtvd  tarn  mrityum  atyeti  ndnyah  panthd  vimuk- 
112  Another  MS.  has  herq./S'a  Mlo  'gnih  sa  Chandramah. 


EELATING  TO  EUDEA.  363 

taye  |  .  .  .  .  yah  Satwudriyam  adhlte  so  'gniputo  Ih&vati  sa  Vdyu- 
puto  lhavati  ityadi  \  "  A  man  in  th£  last  (or  fourth)  religious  order 
(i.e.  that  of  a  mendicant)  restraining  all  his  senses,  making  obeisance 
to  his  teacher,  meditating  within  on  the  lotus  of  the  heart,  [which  is] 
spotless,  pyre,  lucid,  undisturbed, — tjie  infinite,  undiscernible,  incon- 
ceivable, auspicious  (siva);  tranquil,  immortal,  source  of  Brahma,  [or, 
of  divine  knowledge], — contemplating  him  who  is  without  beginning, 
middle,  or  end,  the  one,  the  pervading,  the  spiritual  and  blessed,  the 
wonderful,  the  consort  of  Urna,  the  suprem'e  lord,  the  three-eyed,  the 
blue-throated,  the  tranquil, — [doing  this]  a  Muni,  [passing]  beyond 
darkness,  attains  the  source  of  being,  the  universal  witness.  He  is 
Brahma,  he  is  S'iva,  he  is  Indra,  he  is  undecaying,  supreme,  self- 
resplendent  ;  he  is  Yishnu,  he  is  breath,  he  is  the  spirit,  the  supreme 
lord ;  he  is  all  that  has  been  or  that  shall  be,  eternal.  Knowing  him, 
a  man  overpasses  death.  There  is  no  other  way  to  liberation." 
Further  on  it  is  said:  "He  who  reads  the  S'atarudriya  becomes 
purified  by  fire,  purified  by  air,"  etc.,  etc. 

In  one  of  the  MS.  collections  of  Upanishads  belonging  to  the  library 
of  the  East  India  Office,  I  find  another  work  of  that  description,  called 
the  Nilarudropanishad,  which  begins  thus:  Apasyam  chavarohantam 
divitah  prithivlmayah  \  apasyam  apasyam  tarn  Rudram  riilagrivam  sikh- 
andinam  \  "I,  formed  of  earth,  beheld  descending  from  the  sky,  I 
beheld,  I  beheld,  that  blue-necked,  crested  Eudra."  This  composition 
contains  many  verses  from  the  S'atarudriy  a. 

SECT.  YI. — Some  further  texts  from  the  Itihdsas  and  Purdnas  relative 
*          ,       to  Budra. 

In  the  earlier  parts  of  this  work  I  have  given  a  variety  of  extracts 
from  the  Eamayana,  Mail  abb.  arata,  etc.,  which  exhibit  the  character  of 
Mahadeva  as  he  was  conceived  in  the  epic  period  (see  pp.  165,  176, 

178,  184-205,  223-228,  230-232,  240  f.,  266-273,  278-281,  282-289). 

i 
I  shall*  now  adduce  such  other  passages  from  the  Itihasas,  or  Puranas, 

as  may  appear  to  throw  any  light  on  the  histosy  of  the  conceptions 
entertained  of  this  deity,  and  of  his  relations  to  the  other  members 
of  the  Indian  pantheon. 

Eudra  is  briefly  alluded  to  in  the  passages  of  the  Eamayana  i.  1 4, 
1  ff. ;  i.  75,  14  ff. ;  and  Yuddha-Kanda,  119,  1  ff.,  quoted  in  pp.  165, 


364  QUOTATIONS  FROM  THE  RAMAYANA 

176  f.,  and  178  ff.  The  other  texts  of  the  Ramayana  in  which  I  have 
observed  any  allusion  to  him  are  the  following;  and  the  representations 
which  are  there  given  of  this  god  bear  generally,  perhaps,  a  stamp  of 
greater  antiquity  than  those  which  are  found  in  the  Hahabharata. 

In  Ramayana  i.  23,  10  ff.  (ed,-  Bombay),  Rudra  curses  the  embodied 
Kandarpa  (the  Indian  Cupid),  who  wished  to  enter  into  him  after  his 
marriage,  at  a  time  when  he  was  performing  austerity ;  and  Kandarpa 
in  consequence  becomes  bodiless  (ananga).  \Kan&arpo  murtimdn  dslt 
Kamah  ity  uchyate  budhafii  j  tapasyantam  iha  Sthdnum  nimayena  samd- 
ht'tam  |  11.  Kritodvdharh  tu  devesnih  gachhantam  sa-marud-ganam  | 
dharshaydmdsa  durmedhdh  hunkritas  cJia  mahatmand  \  12.  Avadhya- 
tas  cha  Rudrena  chakshushd  Raghunandana  |  vyasiryanta  sarlrdt  svdt 
sarva-gatrdni  durmateh  |  ) 

In  i.  35,  20  (Bombay  ed.),  it  is  mentioned  that  the  mountain-god, 
Himavat,  gave  his  daughter  Urna  to  the  "unequalled  Rudra"  (Rudraya 
apratirupdya).  In  chapter  xxxvii.  of  the  same  book,  vv.  5  ff.  the  con- 
nubial intercourse  of  S'iva  with  Uma  is  described  in  most  undignified 
language,  as  follows:  Purd  Rama  Icritodvahah  S'itikantho  mahutapuh  | 
6.  Drishtvd  cha,  lhagavan  devlm  maithundyopachakrame  |  tasya  samkrl- 
damdnasya  Mahadevasya  dhlmatah  \  S'itikanthasya  devasya  divyam 
varsha-satam  gatam  |  7.  Na  ehdpi  tanayo  Rama  tasydm  dslt  parantapa  | 
"Formerly,  after  his  marriage,  S'itikantha  (S'iva)  the  great  devotee, 
(6)  beholding  the  goddess,  began  to  indulge  in  connubial  love.  A 
thousand  years  of  the  gods  passed  while  the  wise  Mahadeva  S'itikantha 
was  thus  sporting.  But,  0  Rama,  vexer  of  thy  foes,  no  son  was  born  to 
Uma."  The  gods  being  alarmed  at  the  prospect  of  the  formidable  cha- 
racter of  the  offspring  which  might  be  born  to  MaMideva,  entreated  him 
and  his  spouse  to  practise  chastity.  To  this  Mahadeva  consented;  but 
asked  what  would  become  of  the  seed  which  he  had  already  discharged. 
This,  the  gods  said,  should  be  received  by  the  earth.  The  gods  then 
desired  Agni,  along  with  Vayu,  to  enter  into  this  seed.  This  Agni  did, 
and  the  white  mountain  was  produced"  in  consequence  (see  above,  p. 
354),  where  Karttikeya  was  born.  The  gods  then  worshipped  S'iva  and 
Uma,  but  the  latter  imprecated  sterility  on  all  their  wives.  The  thirty- 
seventh  section  relates  the  birth  of  Karttikeya.  While  Tryambaka 
(S'iva),  the  lord  of  the  gods,  was  performing  austerity,  the  other 
deities  went  to  Brahma  and  asked  for  a  general  in  the  room  of  Maha- 


HAVING  REFERENCE  TO  RUDRA-MAHADEVA.  365 

deva,  who,  it  seems,  had  formerly  acted  in  that  capacity.  "He," 
they  said,  i:  whom  thou  didst  formerly  give  us  as  a  leader  of  our 
armies  (i.e.  Mahadeva),  is  now  performing  great  austerity,  along  with 
TJma"  (sect.  38,  v.  3,  Schlegel'sted.  =  sect.  37,  3,  of  Bombay  ed. : 
Yo  nah113,  sendpatir  deva  datto  Iht^avata  pura  \  sa  tapah  param 
usthdya  tapyate  sma  sahomaya).  Brahma  says,  that  in  consequence 
of  the  curse  of  TJtna,  no  son  could  be  born  to  any  of  the  wives  of  the 
gods ;  but  that  Agni  could  beget  a  son  on  the  river  Ganga,  who  should 
be  the  general  of  the  gods.  The  gods  a%cordingly  went  to  mount 
Kailasa,  and  appointed  Agni  to  effect  their  object.  Agni  accordingly 
impregnated  the  Ganga,  who  brought  forth  Karttikeya,  so  called  be- 
cause he  was  nursed  by  the  Krittikas." 

In  the  forty-second  section  it  is  related  how  the  royal  rishi  Bhagiratha 
performed  austerity  in  order  that  the  Ganga  might  descend  from  heaven 
and  purify  the  ashes  of  the  sons  of  Sagara  (who  had  been  destroyed 
by  Kapila,  sect.  40,  at  the  end) ;  and  might  by  this  means  elevate  them 
to  paradise.  Brahma  appeared  to  the  king  and  told  him  that  he  ought 
to  propitiate  S'iva,  who  was  the  only  being  who  could  sustain  the 
shock  of  the  falling  Ganga.  Bhagiratha  (as  is  told  sect.  43)  continued 
his  austerities  till  S'iva  the  lord  of  TJma,  the  lord  of  animals  (Pasupati}, 
appeared  to  him,  and  said  he  would  receive  the  Ganga  on  his  head.  I?e 
accordingly  mounted  the  Himalaya,  and  called  on  the  Ganga  to  descend. 
The  Ganga  was  indignant  at  this  summons,  and  came  down  in  great 
volume  and  with  great  force  on  his  head,  thinking  to  sweep  him  down 
along  with  her  into  Patala.  The  god,  however,  determined  to  humble 
her  pride,  and  she  was  compel?ed  to  circle  for  a  long  period  of  years 
in  the  labyrinth  of*his  matted  locks,  without  being  able  to  reach  the 
earth.  Being  again  propitiated  by  Bhagiratha,  S'iva  at  length  allowed 
her  to  reach  the  lake  Yindu,  to  flow  to  the  sea,  and  eventually  into 
the  infernal  regions,  where  she  puriSed  the  ashes  of  the  sons  of  Sagara 
and  enabled  them  to  ascend  to  heaven. 

In  the  forty-fifth  section  ?s  described  the  production  of  nectar  from 
the  churning 'of  the  ocean  of  milk  by  the  rival  sons  of  Diti  and  Aditi, 
wht>  wished  to  obtain  some  specific  which  should  render  them  immortal. 
In  the  first  place,  however,  a  fiery  poison  w^s  vomited  from  the  mouths 

113  To  nahJL  the  reading  of  Schlegel's  edition,  as  well  as  of  Gorresio's,  39,  3.  The 
Bombay  f  eution  reads  yena,  which  does  not  seem  so  good  a  reading. 


366  QUOTATIONS  FROM  THE  RAMAYANA 

of  the  serpent  Vasuki,  who  was  used  as  the  rope  in  the  process  of  churn- 
ing. The  gods  then  resorted  to  S,'Liva  to  deliver  them  from  this  portent: 

21.  Atha  devdh  Mahddevam  S'ankar$m  sarandrthinah  \jagmuh  Pasu- 
patim  Rudram  trdhi  trdhlti  tushtuvuh  \  22.  Evam  uktas  tato  dsvair 
deva-devesvarah  prabhuh  \  prddurdslt  tato  'traiva  sankha-chahra-dharo 
Harih  \  23.  Uvdchainam  smitafh  kritvd  Rudram  &ula-dharam  Harih  \ 
daivatair  mathyamdne  tu  yat  purvam  samupasthitam  |--24.  Tat  tvadlyam 
sura-sreshfha  surdndm  agrato  M  yat  \  agra-pujdm^iha  sthitvd  grihdnedam 
visham  pralho  \  25.  Ity  ukisd  cha  sura-sreshthas  tatraivdntaradhlyata  \ 
devatdndm  bhayam  drishtvd  srutvd  vdkyam  tu  S'drnginah  \  26.  Haldhalam 
visham  ghoram  sanjagrdhdmritopamam  \  devdn  visrijya  deveso  jagdma 
lhagavdn  Sarah  \  21.  "Then  the  deities,  seeking  as  their  refuge  Maha- 
deva,  Sankara,  went  to  Rudra  Pa^upati,  and  lauded  him  [calling  out] 
'  deliver,  deliver.'  22.  Then,  being  addressed  by  the  gods,  the  lord 
of  the  gods,  Hari,  appeared  on  that  very  spot,  bearing  the  shell 
and  the  discus,  (23)  and  smiling,  said  to  Rudra,  the  wielder  of  the 
trident:  'That  which  has  first  appeared,  when  the  ocean  was  being 
churned  by  the  deities,  (24)  belongs  to  thee,  most  eminent  of  the 
gods,  since  thou  art  at  the  head  of  them.  Standing  here,  receive, 
lord,  this  poison  as  the  earliest  offering.'  25.  Having  thus  spoken, 
tte  most  eminent  of  the  gods  disappeared  on  the  spot.  Perceiving 
the  alarm  of  the  deities,  and  having  heard  the  words  of  Vishnu, 
(26)  he  (S'iva)  took  the  deadly  poison,  as  if  it  had  been  nectar.  The 
divine  Hara  then  dismissed  the^gods  and  departed." 

The  gods  and  Asuras  proceeded  with  the  churning,  but  were  obliged 
now  to  call  in  the  aid  of  Vishnu,  as'  the  mountain  with  which  the 
operation  was  being  performed  sank  down  into  tLe  infernal  regions. 
Vishnu,  however,  assumed  the  form  of  a  tortoise,  and  supported  the 
mountain  on  his  back.  At  length  nectar  was  produced,  which  Vishnu 
carried  off. 

In  the  description  of  the  northern  region  contained  in  the  Kish- 
kindha114  kanda  of  the  Ramayana,  Kailasa  is  spoken  of  as  th?  resi- 
dence of  Kuvera,  and  no  mention  is  made  of  S'iva  as  residing  there : m 

Kishk.  44,  27  ff.  (ed.  Gorresio  =  Bombay  ed.  43,  20  f.).—Tam-  tu 

114  In  the  Bombay  edition  thb  word  is  written  '  Kishkindha,'  without  a  y  before 
the  final  a,  which  it  has  in  Gorresio's  edition. 

115  See,  however,  the  passage  from  the  Sundara  Kanda,  sect.  89,  which  will  be 
quoted  in  the  Appendix,  where  Mahadev.  is  said  to  visit  Kuvera,  or  r      n   "Kailasa. 


KEGABDING  MAHADEVA  OR  BRAHMA.  367 

slghram  atikramya  kdntdram  loma-harshanam  \  pdnduram  dralcshyatha 
tatah  Kaildsam  ndma  parvatam  \  tatry  pdndura-meghdlham  Jdmbunada- 
parishkritam  \  Kuvera-bhavanarfr  divyam  nirmitam  Visvalcarmand  \ 
11  Having  quickly  passed  over  that  dreadful  desert,  you  shall  then  see 
the  white  mountain,  called  Kailasa,  #nd  there  the  celestial  palace  of 
Kuvera,  formed  by  Visvakarman,  in  colour  like  a  brilliant  cloud,  and 
decorated  with  gcid." 

The  Bombay  edition,  43,  54  ff.,  has  the  following  lines,  in  which 
Rudra  may  be  referred  to :  Tarn  atilctHmya  sailendram  uttaras 
toyasdm  nidhih  \  tatra  Somagirir  nama  madhye  hemamayo  mahan  \  55. 
Sa  tu  deso  visuryo  Jpi  tasya  bkdsd  prakdsate  \  surya-lalcshmyd  'bhivijneyo 
tapateva  Vivasvatd  \  56.  Bhagavdms  tatra  visvatmd  S'ambhur  ekddastit- 
maJcah  \  Brahma  vasati  deveso  Irahmafshi-parivdritah 116  |  54.  "  Beyond 
this  monarch  of  mountains  is  the  northern  ocean,  in  the  midst  of 
which  stands  the  great  golden  mountain,  called  Somagiri.  55.  "With 
its  lustre  that  region,  although  sunless,  shines;  and  is  distinguished 
by  a  solar  splendour,  as  if  from  the  beams  of  Vivas  vat  (the  sun). 
56.  There  the  divine  soul  of  the  universe,  the  el  even- fold  S'ambhu, 
Brahma,  lord  of  the  gods,  dwells,  attended  by  the  Brahman  Eishis." 

In  Gorresio's  edition  (44,  117  ff )  this  passage  shows  a  number  of 
various  readings :  Kurums  tan  samatilcramya  uttare  payasdm  nidhijf\ 
tatra  Somagirir  nama  Jiiranmaya-samo  mdhan  \  118.  Indra-loka-gatdh 
ye  clia  Brahma-loka-gatds  cha  ye  \  sarve  te  samavailcshanta  girirdjam 
divam  gatdh  \  119.  Asuryo  'pi  hi  desaJi  sa  tasya  bhdsd  prakdsate  \ 
sasuryah  iva  lakshmivdms  tapatlva  divdlcare  \  120.  Bhagavdms  tatra 
Ihutdtmd  Svayamlhur  bahudhdtmakah  \  Brahma  lhavati  vasydtma 
sarvdtmd  sarva-bhdvtlnah  \ ,  117.  "Beyond,  to  the  north  of  the  Uttara 
Kurus,  is  an  ocean,  in  which  is  a  great  mountain,  as  it  were  of  gold. 
118.  All  those  who  hav£  gone  to  the  sky,  to  the  world  of  Indra,  or 
to  that  of  Brahma,  have  beheld  the  "king  of  mountains.  119.  By  its 

116  The  commentator  thus  explains  this  verse :  Vlsvam  atati  vyapnoti  iti  visvatma 
vyapaktis  tena  Vishnu-rupah  \  vishnu-vyaptav  ity  anusarat  \  sa  eva  S'ambhuh  s'am 
bhavaty  asmat  \  ?a  eva  ekadasatmakah  ekadasanuvciJfarthaikadasa-rudratmakah  \  sa 
eva  flrahma  briinhanatvat  jagat-srashtritvat  \  "  Visvatma*  means,  he  who  pervades 
all  things ;  and  consequently  he  is  in  the  form  of  Vishnu,  as  Vishnu  has  the  sense 
of  pervader.  The  same  being  is  S'ambhu,  he  fromwhom  prosperity  (sam)  arises 
(bhavati)  •  and  he  is  also  elevenfold,  in  the  form  of  the  eleven  Rudras,  who  signify 
eleven  repetitions  of  him  (?}.  The  same  being  is  also  Brahma,  from  his  increasiug, — 
creating  the  world."  •» 


368         TEXT  FROM  THE  RAMAYAXA  REGARDING  RUDRA. 

light  that  region  shines,  although  sunless,  as  if  it  had  a  sun,  and  re- 
splendent as  if  the  lord  of  day  were  blazing.  120.  There  the  divine 
soul  of  beings,  Svayambhu,  Brahma,  dwells^,  self-subdued,  the  soul, 
and  producer  of  all  things."  Here  there  is  no  reference  to  Mahadeva, 
Svayambhu  being  substituted  for  S'ambhu. 

Another  passage  relating  to  Rudra  which  occurs  in  Gorresio's  recen- 
sion of  the  Ramayana  is  the  following  (though  it  is  $iot  to  be  found  in 
the  corresponding  section  of  the  Bombay  edition,) : 

Kishk.  44,  46  ff. — Tarn  fo  desam  atikramya  Trisringo  ndma  parvatah  \ 
tasya  pdde  saro  divyam  mahat  kdnchana-pushkaram  \  tatah  prachyavate 
divyd  tikshna-srotds  taranginl  \  nadl  naika-grahdklrnd  kutild  loka-bhd- 
viril  \  tasyaikam  kdnchanam  sringam  parvatasydgni-sannibham  \  vaidurya- 
mayam  ekancha  sailasytisyd  samuchhritam  \  Anutpanneshu  bhuteshu  ba- 
bhuva  kila  bhumitah  \  agrajah  sarva-bhutdndm  Visvakarmeti  visrutah  \ 
tat  tasya  kilo,  paurdnam  agnihotram  mahdtmanah  \  dslt  trisikJiarah  sailah 
pravrittds  tatra  ye  'gnayah  \  tatra  sarvdni  bhutdni  sarvamedke  mahd- 
makhe  \  kritvd  'bhavad  mahdtejdh  sarva-loka-mahesvarah  \  Rudrasya  kila 
samsthdnam  saro  vai  sdrvamedhikam  \  tatah  pravrittd  Sarayur  ghora- 
nakravatl  nadl  \  deva-gandharva-patagdh  pisdchoraga-ddnavdh  \  pravi- 
santi  na  taiii  desam  pradlptam  iva  pdvakam  \  tarn  atikramya  sailendram 
Mahadevdlhipulitam  \  ityddi  \  "When  that  region  has  been  overpassed, 
a  mountain  called  Trisringa  [will  be  seen],  at  the  foot  of  which  is  a 
divine  lake,  of  large  dimensions,  filled  with  golden  lotuses.  Thence 
flows  a  divine  billowy  river,  with  rapid  stream,  swarming  with  croco- 
diles, winding,  gladdening  the  world.  That  mountain  has  one  golden 
peak,  [one]  resembling  fire,  and  it  has«lso  one  elevated  point  formed  of 
lapis  lazuli.  When  no  creatures  had  as  yet  come  into  existence,  there 
sprang  from  the  earth  the  first  of  all  beings,  known  as  Visvakarman. 
This  triple-peaked  mountain  was  the  scene  of  the  ancient  Agnihotra 
sacrifice  of  that  great  being,  where  all--  the  fires  were  employed. 
Having  formed  all  beings  there  at  this  great  universal  sacrifice,  he 
became  the  mighty  lord  (mahesvara*)  of  dl  worlds.  This  lake  of  the 
universal  sacrifice  is  the  abode  of  Rudra ;  and  from  it  issues  the  river 
Sarayu,  abounding  in  dreadful  crocodiles.  Gods,  Gandharvas,  birds, 
Pisachas,  snakes,  and  Danavas,  do  not  enter  that  region,  which  is  like 
blazing  fire.  Having  overpassed  that  great  mountain,  protected  by 
Mahadeva,"  etc. 


SACEIFICE  OF  VIS'VAKARMAN  BHAUVANA.  369 

In  regard  to  the  story  of  Visvakarman,  which  is  not  usually  met 
with  in  the  Puranas,  and  does  not  Jiarmonize  well  with  the  course 
of  their  cosmogony,  compare  the  two  hymns  in  pp.  5  ff.,  the  story 
from  the  Nirukta  in  p.  9,  above,  and  the  S'atap.  Br.  xiii.  7,  1,  14. 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xiii.  7,  1, 14. -y  Tena  ha  etena  Visvakarma  Bhau- 
vanah  ye  \  teneshtvd  'tyatufithat  sarvdni  Ihutani  idam  sarvam  abhavat  \ 
atitishthati  sarvdni  IJiutdni  idam  sarvam  lhavati  yah  evam  vidvdn  sarva- 
medhena  yajate  yo  va  etad'evam  veda  \  15.  Tarn  ha  Kasyapo  ydjaydncha- 
Icdra  \  tad  api  Bhumih  slolcamjagau  \  "  na  tAd  martyah  Icaschana  datum 
arhati  Visvakarman  Bhauvana  mandah  dsitha  \  upamanhshyati  syd  salil- 
asya  madJiye  mrishaisha  te  sangarah  Kasyapaya "  iti  \  "  With  this 
sacrifice,  Visvakarman,  the  son  of  Bhuvana,  sacrificed.  Having  sacri- 
ficed with  it,  he  overpassed  all  beings,  and  became  all  this.  That  man 
overpasses  all  beings  and  becomes  all  this,  \vho,  knowing  this,  sacrifices 
with  the  Sarva-medha  ('universal  sacrifice'),  or  he  who  thus  knows  this. 
15.  Kasyapa  performed  this  sacrifice  for  him.  Wherefore  also  the  Earth 
recited  a  verse:117  'No  mortal  ought  to  bestow  me.  Visvakarman,  son 
of  Bhuvana,  thou  wast  foolish.  She  (the  earth)  will  sink  into  the 
midst  of  the  water.  This  promise  of  thine  to  Kasyapa  is  vain.'  " 

It  would  appear  as  if  the  author  of  the  preceding  passage  of  the 
Ramayana  intended  to  identify  Rudra  with  Visvakarman,  when  he  says 
that  the  latter  "became  the  mighty  lord  (mahesvara)  of  all  worlds." 
Compare  the  passages  from  the  Kurma  Parana  and  Mahabharata 
quoted  below  in  notes  131  and  133,  pp.  376  and  377;  and  Mahabharata, 
S'antip.  241,  quoted  in  a  note  to  p.  372,  vol.  v.,  of  this  work.  If  Maha- 
deva  is  identified  with  Visvakartaan,  he  must,  according  to  the  Eama- 
• 

117  The  commentator  observes  on  this:  Asmai  cha  Visvakarma  bhumim  datum 
iyesha  tatra  cha  kale  Bhumir  api  imam  slokam  gltavatl  \  tvam  tu  mandah  manda- 
matir  janah  asitha  babhuvitjta  jatah  ity  arthah  \  upa-sabdo  ni-yabdasya  nrthe  \  yas 
cha  asakyam pratijan'tte  mandah  ity  abhiprvyah  \  "Visvakarman  desired  to  give  the 
earth  to  him ;  and  at  that  time  the  Earth  also  sang  this  verse.  Thou  wast  '  dull,' 
dull  of  understanding.  The  preposition  upa  is  here  used  in  the  sense  of  ni.  And 
the  sense  is  that  he  who  promises'  what  is  impossible  is  foolish."  Compare  the 
passage  of  the  Mahabharata,  Vana-parvan,  v.  10209  (in  the  first  vol.  of  this  work, 
p.  451),  where  the  earth  is  said  to  have  been  given  to  Kas'/apa  by  Paras'urama;  and 
another  text  from  the  Anus'usana-parvan,  vv.  7232  ff.  (ibid.  p.  464),  where  the  earth 
is  said  to  have  become  offended  with  king  Anga,  wh§  desired  to  bestow  her  on  the 
Brahmans,  and  to  have  in  consequence  abandoned  her  form.  Kasyapa  afterwards 
entered  into  her,  and  she  became  his  daughter.  Compare  also  S'atapatha  Brahmana, 
vii.  4,  3,  5  (quoted  above,  p.  27).  , 

VOL.  iv.  24 


370  MAHADEVA  AND  KUVERA  ON  MOUNT  KAILASA. 

yana  and  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  be  regarded  as  sprung  from  the  earth, 
or  Bhuvana,  and  therefore  not  eternal.  It  is  to  be  noted,  however, 
that  the  S'atap.  Br.  speaks  of  this  Y?svakarman  as  a  mortal,  and  the 
Ait.  Br.  speaks  of  him  as  a  prince  who  conquered  the  earth. 

In  the  next  passage118  Mahade(va  is  represented  as  visiting  Kuvera  on 
Mount  Kailasa,  and  as  acknowledging  the  divinity  of  Rama : 

Ram.  (ed.  Grorresio)  v.  89,  6  ff. — Atha  pradhdno  diharmatma  lokdnam 
Isvarah  prabhuh  \  tatah  salhdydm  devasya  fajno  Vaisravanasya  sah  \ 
dhanddhyahha-salhdm  detiah  prdpto  hi  Prishhalha-dhvajah  \  Umd- 
sahdyo  deveso  ganais  cha  tahubhir  vritah  \  avatirya  vrishdt  turnam 
mahitah  sula-dhrig  vilhuh  \  gires  tasya  mahdtejah  pravishtas  tu  sabhdm 
Sarah  \  Riddhyd  sahdya-yuktas  cha  tathd  Vaisravanah  svayam  \  anyonyam 
tau  samdlingya  upavishtdv  ubhdv  api  \  sabhdydm  tatra  tau  devau  te  cha, 
devdh  yathdhramam  \  upavishtdh  gands  chaiva  YaJcshds  cha  saha  Guhya- 
Jcaih  |  aksha-dyu/am  tatas  tdlhydm  pravrittam  .samanantaram  \  etasminn 
antare  tatra  Rdkshasendram  VibTnshanam  \  drishtvd  Paulastyam  dydntam 
Sivah  prdha  dhanesvaram  \  ayafh,  Vilhishanah  praptah  saranam  tava 
pdrthiva  \  manyund  'bhipluto  vlro  Rdkshasendra-vimdnitah  \  ityddi  \ 

"  Now  the  righteous  and  mighty  ruler  of  the  worlds,  whose  banner 
is  a  bull,  the  god  of  gods,  accompanied  by  Uma,  and  attended  by 
numerous  hosts,  came  then  to  the  assembly  of  the  divine  king  Yais- 
ravana  (Kuvera),  the  lord  of  riches.  Alighting  quickly  from  his  bull, 
Hara,  the  mighty  lord,  the  wielder  of  the  trident,  being  received  with 
honour,  entered  into  the  assembly  on  that  mountain  (Kailasa,  v.  4); 
and  at  the  same  time  Yaisravana  himself,  with  Riddhi  (his  wife),119 
and  attended  by  his  companions,  [came  in].  Having  embraced  each 
other,  those  two  gods  with  the  other  deities  sat  dtfwn  in  order  in  the 
assembly,  together  with  their  hosts,  and  the  Yakshas  and  Guhyakas. 
The  two  gods  then  began  to  play  at  dice.  In  the  mean  time,  beholding 
the  eminent  Rakshasa  Yibhlshan'a,  the  son  of  Pulastya,  approaching, 
S'iva  says  to  the  lord  of  riches,  '  This,  0  king,  is  the  hero  Yibhlshana, 
who  has  resorted  to  thee,  overwhelmed  'by  distress,  having  be/^n  dis- 
honoured by  the  chief  of  the  Rakshasas  (Ravana),'"  etc.,  etc. 

"While  S'iva  is  speaking,  Vibhlshana  arrives,  and  bows  down  before 

118  This  passage,  however,  ii  only  to  be  found  in  Gorresio's  recension,  and  not  in 
the  section  of  the  Devanagan  recension  which  corresponds  to  it — viz.  vi.  17,  1,  ff. 

119  See  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.  Riddhi,  and  the  Mahuhharata,  Asus'asana-parvan, 
675,  and  7637,  as  well  as  the  H arivamsL,  7167,  7739,  there  referred  to. 


PASSAGES  OF  THE  RAMAYANA  ABOUT  MAHADEVA.         371 

the  deitieSj  who  tell  him  to  stand  up ;  and  go  to  Kama,  who  will  install 
him  king  of  the  Rakshasas  (w.  21  f&).  Vibhishana  stands,  with  his 
head  bent  downwards,  antl  sunk*  in  contemplation,  when  S'iva  again* 
speaks  to  him  (vv.  37  ff.):  Tarn  dhytyamunam  lhagavan  uvacha  pralhur 

avyayak  \  uitishtkottishtha  rdjentfra  sultham  apnuhi  sasvatam  \ 

39.  Tasmdd  uttishtha  gachh'a  tvam  purdnam  prabhum  avyayam  \  adhdrdm 
sarvabhutdndm  sasfiatam  niravagraham  \  sa  hi  sarva-nidhdnam  cha  gatir 
gatimatdm  varah  \  kritstlasyajagato  mulam  tasmad  gachhasva  Raghaitiam\ 
"  The  divine,  imperishable  lord  said :  '  Staifd  up,  stand  up,  prince  of 

kings,  obtain  ever-during  happiness Stand  up,  therefore,  go 

to  the  ancient,  imperishable  lord,  the  support  of  all  beings,,  eternal, 
uncontrolled.  For  he,  the  most  excellent,  contains  all  things,  and  is 
the  refuge  of  all  who  seek  a  refuge,  the  root  of  the  whole  world : 
wherefore  go  to  Raghava  (Rama).' "  Yibhishana  then  departs  through 
the  air,  to  go  to  Rama.120 

180  In  the  following  passages  some  of  Mahadeva's  achievements  are  alluded  to : — 
iii.  30,  27  (ed.  Bomb  ),  and  iii.  35,  93  (Gorr.) :  Sa  papata  Kharo  bhumau  dahyamunah 
iaragniria  \  Rudreneva  vinirdngdhah  S'vetaranye  pura  'ndhakah  \  "  [The  Rakshasa] 
Khara  fell  on  the  ground,  hurnt  by  the  fire  of  the  arrow,  like  Andhaka  [who  was] 
formerly  consumed  by  Rudra  in  the  S'veta  forest."  (Compare  A.  V.  xi.  2,  7,  above, 
pp.  334,  336,  where  Rudra  is  called  the  slayer  of  Ardhaka.)  iv.  5,  30  (Gorr.) :  Yatha 
kruddhasya  Rudrasya  Tripuraih  vai  vijigyushah  \  "  [The  frowning  face  of  Ram^ 
like  that  of  the  incensed  Uudra,  who  had  conquered  Tripura."  vi.  51,  17  (Gorr.) : 
"The  Rakshasa  trembled  when  smitten  by  Lakshmana's  arrow,  like  the  dreadful  portal 
of  Tripura,  when  struck  by  the  bolt  of  Rudra"  (Rudra-vanahatam  ghoram  yatha 
Tripura-gopuram).  In  the  following  verse  allusion  is  made  to  Rudra  as  a  slaughterer 
of  animals:  vi.  73,  37  f.  (Gorr.  =  Bombay  ed.  vi.  94,  35).  Hatair  asvaih  padatais  cha 
tad  babhuva  ranajiram\  akr'idah  iva  Rudrasya  kruddhasya  nighnatah pasun  \  "With 
slain  horses  and  footmen,  that  battle-field  became  like  the  garden  of  the  enraged  Rudra 
when  slaughtering  animals."  I  do  not  know  what  the  next  verse  refers  to,  vi.  55,  88 
(Gorr.) :  Kumbhasya  patato  rupam  bhagnasyorasi  mushtina  \  Isvarenabhipannasya 
rupam  Palupater  iva  \  "  The  appearance  of  Kumbha  when  shattered  on  the  chest  by 
the  fist  of  SugrTva,  was  like  Jhe  appearance  of  Pas'upati  (S'iva)  when  overcome  by 
Is'vara."  The  commentator  quoted  by  Gorres^o  has  the  following  note  in  explanation: 
Isvarena  pralaya-knlena  hetunii  abhipannasya  lokan  abhisrastasya  Pasupateh  Rudra- 
sya rupam  iva  rupam  babhuva  ily  arthah  \  The  Bomb.  ed.  (76,  93)  reads  in  the 
second  liqe :  babhau  Rudrabhipanndsya  yatha  rupam  Gavampateh  \  which  the  com- 
mentator renders,  *' appeared  like  the  form  of  the  lord  of  rays  (the  sun),  overcome  by 
Rudra"  (Rudrena  abhipannasya  abhibhutasya  Gavampateh  S&ryasya  iva.)  It  would 
almosl  seem  (strange  as  it  may  appear)  as  if  the  author  of  the  recension  of  the  Ramayana 
published  by  Gorresio,  had  not  understood  the  word  Gavampati  (lord  of  cows  or  rays) 
as  designating  the  sun,  when  he  took  it  for  the  equivalent  of  Pas'upati.  Is'vara 
and  Pas'upati  are  both  names  of  Rudra ;  and  he  could  Hbt  be  assailed  by  himself. 
Gavampati  occurs  in  the  hymn  to  the  Sun  in  the  Mahabharata,  iii.  192  (as  quoted  by 
Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  *.t>.),  as  one  of  the  numerous  names  or  epithets  of  the  Sun. 


372     TEXTS  FROM  RAMAYANA  AND  MAHABHARATA 

From  the  passages  quoted  above  from  the  Mahabharata  and  Brahmanas 
in  p.  284,  and  pp.  200  and  202,  -aote,  it  appears  as  if  some  contest  had 
•at  one  time  existed  between  the  votaries  of  Mahadeva,  and  those  of 
other  deities,  in  regard  to  adoratior.  of  the  former.  It  may  perhaps  be 
inferred  from  the  passages  cited- in  pp.  288-291,  also,  that  the  worship 
of  this  god,  as  practised  by  some  tribes,  was  regarded  by  others  with 
aversion,  or  even  with  horror.  Some  further  indications  of  this  aversion 
may  be  discovered  in  the  myth  of  Daksha's  sacrifice,  as  related  in  the 
.Ifahabharata,  and  in  the  Yayu  and  other  Puranas  (see  Wilson's  Vishnu 
Purana,  pp.  61  ff.=pp.  120  ff.  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.,  vol.  i.). 

This  story  is  told,  perhaps  in  its  simplest  form,  in  the  following 
passage  of  the  Ramayana,  i.  66,  7  ff.  (ed.  Schlegel  and  Bombay = 
68,  7  ff.  Gorresio) : 

Evarn  ulctas  tu  Janakah  pratyuvdcha  mahdmunim  \  sruyatdm  asya 
dhanusho  yad-artham  iha  tishthati  \  Devardtah  iti  khydto  Nimeh  shashtho 
(jyeshtho,  Bomb,  ed.)  mahipatih  \  nydso  'yam  tasya  bhagavan  haste  datto 
mahdtmanah  \  Daksha-yajna-badhe  purvam  dhanur  dyamya  vlryavdn  \ 
vidhvasya  tridasdn  Rudrah  salllam  idam  abravlt  \  "yasmdd  bhdgtirthinoni 
Ihdgdn  ndkalpayata  me  surdh  \  vardngdni  \_=sirdmsi,  Comm.  in  Bomb, 
ed.]  mahdrhdni  dhanushd  sdtaydmi  vah  \  tato  vimanasah  sarve  devuh  vai 
muni-punga/oa  \  prdsddayanta  devesam  teshtim  prlto  'bhavad  £havah  \ 
prltaschapi  dadau  tesham  tdny  anguni  mahaujasdm  \  dhanushd  ydni  ydny 
dsan  sdtitdni  mahdtmand  \  tad  etad  deva-devasya  dhanu-ratnam  mahdt- 
manah |  nydsa-bhutam  tadd  nl/astam  asmdkam  purvake  vibho  \  122 

"  Janata,  being  thus  addressed,  replied  to  the  great  muni :  '  Hear, 
regarding  this  bow,  from  what  cause  it  is  here.  A  king  called  Deva- 
rata  was  the  sixth  in  descent  from  Nirni.  This  [bow]  was  a  deposit 
committed  to  the  hands  of  this  great  personage.  Formerly,  at  the 
destruction  of  Daksha's  sacrifice,  the  heroic  Rudra,  when  he  had  drawn 
this  bow,  and  routed  the  gods,  thus  spake  in  derision :  "Since,  ye  gods, 
ye  have  divided  to  me  no  portion,  though  T  desired  it,  I  cut  off  your 
most  precious  heads  with  my  bow."  Then  all  the  deities,  being  dis- 

121  Svishtakrid-adi-yajna-bhagarthino  mama  \  "  To  me  who  desired  a  share  in  the 
Svishtakrid,  etc.,  offering." — /^omm. 

122  This  last  line  runs  ^s  follows  in  Gorresio's  edition  (ch.  Ixviii.  13) :    Tishthaty 
ady'ipi  lhagavan   kule  'smakaih  supujitam  \      The  other  various  readings,  though 
numerous,  are  unimportant.  « 


ABOUT  DAKSHA'S  SACRIFICE.  373 

tressed,  propitiated  the  god  of  gods,  who  became  favourable  to  them, 
and  restored  the  limbs  of  those  glorious  beings  which  had  been  cut  off 
by  the  mighty  bow.  This  is  th-e  precious  bow  of  the  great  deity, 
which  was  at  that  time  deposited  with  our  ancestor.'  " 

In  this  version  of  the  myth,  then*  is  no  mention  of  Rudra  com- 
missioning Vlrabhadra,  or  any  other  demons,  tp  destroy  the  sacrifice  or 
put  the  gods  to  flight.  He  is  simply  said  to  wound  the  gods  with  hia 
bow.123  •  ' 

The  same  story  is  told  in  the  Sauptika-parvan,  vv.  786-808,  and, 
in  greater  detail  in  the  S'anti-parvan,  of  the  Mahabharata,  in  verses 
10226-10258,  and  is  immediately  afterwards  repeated  in  vv.  10275  ff. 
According  to  the  first  account  (which  is  given  in  answer  to  a  question 
regarding  the  origin  of  Jvara,  Fever),  Uma,  S'iva's  wife,  seeing  the 
gods  passing  by  in  chariots,  inquires  of  her  husband  where  they  are 
going,  and  is  told  by  him  that  they  are  proceeding  to  Daksha's  horse- 
sacrifice.  The  goddess  then  asks  why  her  lord  also  does  not  go.  He 
replies :  Surair  eva  maJidllidge  purvam  etad  anmhthitam  \  yajneslm 
sarveshu  mama  na  bhdgah  upalcalpitah  \  purvopdyopapannena  mdrgena 
varavarnini  \  na  me  surah  prayachhanti  Ihdgam  yajnasya  dharmatah  m  [ 


123  This  same  story  is  again  briefly  alluded  to  in  the  following  other  passages 
of  the  Ramayana: — iii.  30,  36  (ed.  Gorr.  =  Bomb.  ed.  iii.  24,  35):  Tarn  drishtva 
tejasa  yuktam  vivyathur  vana-devatah  \  Dakshasyeva  kratum  hantum  udyatastram, 
Pinakinam  \  "Beholding  Mm  (Rama),  possessed  of  might,  the  sylvan  deities  •were 
distressed,  as  if  he  had  been  Pinakin  (S'iva)  with,  his  weapon  ready  to  destroy  the 
sacrifice  of  Daksha."  Ibid.  70,  2 :  Hantu-kamam  pasum  Rudram  kruddham  Daksha- 
kratau  yatha  \  "Like  the  incensed  Rudra  who  sought  to  slay  the  victim  at  the  sacri- 
fice of  Daksha."  (The  Bomb.  ed.  iii.  65,  2,  has  a  quite  different  reading :  Dagdhu- 
kamam  jagat  sarvam  yugante  oha  yatha  Haram  \  "Like  Hara  [Rudra]  desirous 
of  burning  up  the  whole  world  at  the  end  of  the  Yuga.")  And  again,  vi.  54,  33  (ed. 
Gorr.) :  Tato  vispharayamasa  llamas  tad  dhanur  uttamam  \  bhagavan  iva  sankruddho 
Bhavah  kratu-jighamsaya  \  ''"Then  Rama  stretched  that  excellent  bow,  like  the 
divine  Bhava  enraged,  and  seeking  to  destroy  the  sacrifice."  Rudra' s  followers  are, 
however,  mentioned  in  the  Ramayana.  Thus  in  iii.  31,  10  (ed.  Gorr.)  it  is  said : 
Sa  taih  parivrito  ghoraih  raksTiasair  nri-varatmajah  \  Mahaderah  pitri-vane  ganaih 
parsva-gatair  ivo^  \  "  This  son  of  an  eminent  man  (Rama)  was  surrounded  by  these 
horrible  Rakshasas,  like  Mahadeva  by  his  attendant  hosts  if.  a  cemetery."  (Instead 
of  tbe  last  line  the  Bomb.  ed.  has  the  following,  iii.  25,  12 :  Tithishv  iva,  Mahadevo 
vritah  parishadam,  ganaih,}  And  in  another  place  (v.  12,  39,  ed.  Gorr.)  S'iva  is 
called  the  lord  of  demons  (griham  Bhutapater  iva}. 

m  The  same  words  nearly  are  put  into  the  mouth  <jf  Mahadeva  in  the  Vayu- 
purana,  See  Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  vol.  i.,  p.  126,  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed. 


374  STORY  OF  DAKSHA'S  SACRIFICE 

"  The  former  practice  of  the  gods  has  been,  that  In  all  sacrifices  no 
portion  should  be  divided  to  me.  \By  custom,  established  by  the  earliest 
arrangement,  the  gods  lawfully  (dha??matah)'  allot  me  no  share  in  the 
sacrifice."  Uma  is  extremely  chagrined  that  her  husband,  a  god  of 
BO  great  dignity,  should  be  so  ti^ated  -  Perceiving  his  wife's  distress, 
S'iva  goes,  with  his  attendants,  and  puts  an  end  to  the  sacrifice.  The 
sacrifice  takes  the  form  of  a  deer,  and  is  followed  by  S'iva  to  the  sky. 
A  drop  of  sweat  falls  from  his  forehead,  from  "which  a  fire  proceeds, 
put  of  which  again  a  formidable  being  is  born,  Jvara  (fever),  which 
burns  up  the  sacrifice,  puts  the  gods  to  flight,  etc.  On  this  Brahma 
appears  to  S'iva,  and  promises  that  the  gods  shall  henceforth  give  him 
a  share  in  the  sacrifice  (Jthavato  'hi  stirdh  sarve  Ihdgam  ddsyanti  vai 
prdbho\  and  proposes  that  Jvara  (fever)  shall  be  allowed  to  range  over 
the  earth.  S'iva  is  propitiated,  and  assents  to  Brahma's  proposal,  and 
has  ever  afterwards  obtained  a  share  in  the  sacrifice  (ity  ukto  Brahmana, 
devo  Ihdge  chdpi  prakalpite  \  bhagavantam  tathety  aha  ....  pardncha 
prltim  agamad  utsmayamscha  Pindka-dhrik  \  avdpa  cha  tadd  Ihdgam 
yathoktam  Brahmana  Bhavah}. 

The  second  version  of  the  story  is  as  follows :  vv.  10272  ff.  Daksha 
formerly  commenced  a  sacrifice  at  Gangadvara  in  the  Himalaya,  which 
was  attended  by  the  various  orders  of  divine  beings,  including  Indra 
and  Brahma.  Dadhichi,  however,  a  votary  of  Rudra,  was  indignant 
that  no  worship  was  to  be  offered  to  that  deity.  10283  ff.  Tan 
drishtvd  manyund  "vishto  Dadhlchir  vdkydm  abravlt  \  " nay  am  yajno  na 
vd  dharmo  yatra  Rudro  na  ijyate  \  badha-landham  prapanndh  vai  kinnu 
kdlasya  paryayah  \  kinnu  mohdd  na  pasyanti  vindsam  paryupasthitam  \ 
upasthitam  mahdghoram  na  ludhyanti  mahddhvare"  ]  Ity  uktvd  sa  mahd- 
yogl  pasyati  dhydna-chakshushd  \  sapasyati  Mahddevam  demncha  vara-ddm 
subhdm  \  Ndradancha  mahdtmdnam  tasydh  devydh  samlpatah  \  santosham 
paramam  lebhe  iti  nischitya  yoga-vit  \  eka-mantrds  tu  te  sarve  yeneso  na 
mmantntah  12°  |  tasmdd  desdd  apdkramya  Dsidlilchir  vdkyam  abravlt  \ 
apujya-pujandchchaiva  pujydndnchdpy  apujandt  \  nri-ahdtaka-samam 
pdpaih  sasvat  prdpnrti  mdnavah 126  |  anritam  nokta-purvam  me  na  cha 

125  A  line  similarly  expressed  occurs  a  little  further  on. 

126  The  account  of  Daksha' sacrifice  given  in  the  Vayu-purana,  and  translated  by 
Prof.  Wilson,  V.P.  (vol.  i.,  pp.  122  ff.  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.),  has  a  good  many  lines  which 
correspond  nearly  with  some  in  this  passage  of  the  Mahabharata.     Of  these  Dr.  Hall 
was  kind  enough  to  send  me  copies.     Oae  of  them  agrees  in  sense  with  this  verse. 


ACCORDING  TO  THE  MAHABHARATA.  375 

vakshye  kaddchana  \  devatdndm  rishlndm  cha  madhye  satyam  Iravlmy  aham\ 
dgatam  Pasubhartdram  srashtdrafn  jdgatah  patim  \  adhvare  yajna-lhok- 
tdram  sarveshdm  pasyata  'prabhufn,  \  Dakshah  uvdcha  \  Santi  no  lahavo 
Rudrdh  siila-hastdh  kapardinah  \  ekadasa-sthdna-gatdh  ndham  vedmi  Ma- 
hesvaram™'\  Dadhlchir  uvacha  \tsarvenftdm  eva  mantro  ''yam,  yendmu  na 
nimantritah 128 1  yathd  'ham  S'ankardd  urdhvamt  ndnyam  pasydmi  daiva- 
tam  |  tathd  Dakshasya  vipulo  yajno  ''yam  na  lhavishyati  \  Dakshah  uvdcha\ 
etan  makJtesdya  suvarna-pdtre  havih  samastam  vidhi-mantra-putam  \  Vish- 
nor  naydmy  apratimasya 129  lhagam  prabhur  vibhus  chdhavanlya  eshah  \ 
Devy  uvdcha  \  kirn  ndma  ddnam  vishamam  tapo  vd  kurydm  ahaih  yena 
patir  namddya  \  labheta  bhdgam  lhagavdn  achintyo  ardham  tathd  Ihd- 
gam  atho  tritlyam  \  evam  Iruvdndm  lhagavdn  sva-patnlm  prahrishta- 
rupah  kshyjthitam  uvdcha  \  na  vetsi  mdm  devi  krisodardngi  kim  ndma  yuk- 
tarh  vachanam  makhese  \  aham  vijdndmi  visdla-netre  dhydnena  hlndh  na 
vidanty  asantah  \  tavddya  mohena  cha  sendra-devdh  lokds  trayah  sarvatah 
eva  mudhdh  \  mdm  adhvare  samsitdrah  stuvanti  rathantaram  sdma-gds 
chopagdnti  \  mdm  Irdhmandh  Irahma-vido  yajante  mamddhvaryavah  kalpa- 
yante  cha  bhdgam  \  Devy  uvdcha  \  suprdkrito  'pi  purusho  sarvah  strl- 
jana&amsadi  \  stauti  garvdyate  chdpi  svam  atmdnam  na  samsayah  \ 
Bhagavdn  uvdcha  \  ndtmdnam  staumi  devesi  pasya  me  tanu-madhyame  \ 
yarn  srakshydmi  vardrohe  ydgdrthe  vara-varnini  \ 

"Beholding  them,  Dadhlchi,  filled  with  indignation,  thus  spake: 
'  This  is  no  sacrifice,  nor  a  legitimate  ceremony,  in  which  Rudra  is 
not  worshipped.  [These  gods]  have  beeome  entangled  in  the  bonds  of 
destruction.  Is  this  the  adverse  influence  of  time  ?  or  is  it  through 
delusion  that  thej'  do  not  see  that  ruin  is  at  hand  ?  They  perceive  not 
that  a  great  calamity  is  impending  at  the  sacrifice.'  Having  so  spoken, 
this  great  devotee  beholds  with  the  eye  of  contemplation :  he  sees 
Mahadeva  and  his  boon-bestowing  and  auspicious  goddess,  and  close  to 
her  the  great  Narada,  and  received  t'fie  highest  satisfaction.  Dadhlchi, 
versed  in  meditation,  having  ascertained  that  all  the  gods  had  adopted 
a  comnion  resolution  that  they  would  not  imvite  Mahadeva,  issued 

m,  A  verse  closely  resembling  this  occurs  in  the  Vayu  Parana. 

1?e  The  corresponding  line  runs  thus  in  the  Vayu  Purana :  Sarvesham  eka-mantro 
'yam  yeneso  na  nimantritah;  which  Prof.  Wilson  thu*  renders :  "The  invocation  that 
is  not  addressed  to  Is'a  is,  for  all,  but  a  solitary  (and  imperfect)  summons." 

129  Instead  of  bhagam,  etc.,  the  Vayu  Purana  reads  sarvam  prabhor  vibhor  hy  aha- 
vawya-nityam.  » 


376  STORY  OF  DAKSHA'S  SACRIFICE 

forth  from  that  [sacrificial]  ground,  and  spake  thus :  c  By  worshipping 
that  which  ought  not  to  be  worshipped,  and  neglecting  to  worship  that 
which  ought  to  be  worshipped,  a  Irian  ever  incurs  sin  equal  to  that 
of  a  murderer.  I  have  never  before  uttered,  neither  shall  I  ever 
utter,'falsehood.  Among  gods  afid  risHs  I  declare  the  truth.  Behold 
Pasubhartri  (S'iva)  arrived,  the  creator,  the  master  of  the  world,  the 
lord  of  all,  the  eater  of  the  sacrifice.'  Daksha  replied :  '  "We  have  many 
Eudras,  armed  with  tridents,  and  wearing  spirally-braided  hair,  who 
occupy  eleven  places.130  I  know  not  Mahesvara.'  Dadhichi  answered : 
'  This  is  a  [preconcerted]  plan  of  all  [the  gods]  that  he  (Hahadeva)  has 
not  been  invited.  Since  I  perceive  S'ankara,  and  no  other  deity,  to 
be  supreme,  therefore  this  .sacrifice  of  Daksha  shall  not  be  prosperous.' 
Daksha  spake :  '  I  offer  to  the  lord  of  sacrifice  (Vishnu),  ii  a  golden 
vessel,  this  entire  oblation  purified  by  rites  and  by  texts,  the  share  of 
the  incomparable  Yishnu :  he  is  the  lord,  the  all-pervading,  the  sacri- 
ficial fire.'  m  Devi  (who,  without  any  preamble,  is  here  introduced 
as  speaking)  said:  'What  liberality  or  arduous  austerity  can  I  perform 
whereby  my  divine,  incomprehensible  husband  may  to-day  obtain  a 
share,  a  half-share,  or  a  third?'  The  god,  delighted  in  aspect,  ad- 
dressed his  troubled  wife  who  had  thus  spoken :  '  Thou  knowest  me 
not,  goddess,  slender  of  waist  and  limb ;  nor  what  speech  befits  the 
lord  of  sacrifice.  I  know,  0  large-eyed;  but  the  wicked,  devoid  of 

130  Compare  the  phrase  ekadasahn&ka  above,  p.  367. 

isi  prof,  Alison  (p.  124  f.)  has  the  following  note  on  the  parallel  passage  of  the 
Vayu  Purana:  "The  Kurma  Purana  gives  also  this  discussion  between  Dadhlcha 
and  Daksha,  and  their  dialogue  contains  some  curious  matter.  Daksha,  for  instance, 
states  that  no  portion  of  a  sacrifice  is  ever  allotted  to  S'i/a,  and  no  prayers  are 
directed  to  be  addressed  to  him,  or  to  his  bride  (sarveshv  eva  hi  yajneshu  no,  bhagah 
parikalpitah  \  no,  mantrah  bharyaya  sardhatii  S' ankarasyeti  neshyate).  DadhTcha 
apparently  evades  the  objection,  and  claims  a  share  for  Rudra,  consisting  of  the  triad 
of  gods,  as  one  with  the  sun,  who  is  undoubtedly  hymned  by  the  several  ministering 
priests  of  the  Vedas  (sa  stuyate  sahasramsuh  samagadhvaryu-hotribhih  \  pasyainam 
Visvakarmanam  Rudram  murti-traylmayani).  Dav.sha  replies  that  the  twelve 
Adityas  receive  special  oblations;  that  they  are  all  the  suns;  and  that  he  k-aows  of 
no  other.  The  Munis,  who  overhear  the  dispute,  concur  in  his  sentiments  (ye  ete 
dvadai:  adit  yah  Aditya-yajiia-bhaginah  \  sarve  suryah  iti  jneyah  na  hy  anyo  vidyate 
ravih\  evam  ukte  tu  munayah  samayatah  didriltshavah\  vadham  ity  abruvan  Diksnam 
tasya  sahayya-karinah).  Thesfo  notions  seem  to  have  been  exchanged  for  others  in 
the  days  of  the  Padma  P.  and  Bhagavata,  as  they  place  Daksha's  neglect  of  S'iva 
to  the  latter's  filthy  practices — his  going  naked,  smearing  himself  with  ashes,"  etc., 
etc.  An  abstract  of  the  story  as  given  ia  the  Bhagavata  will  be  found  in  the  text.  . 


ACCORDING  TO  THE  MAHABHARATA.  377 

reflection,  know  not :  and  the  three  worlds,  including  Indra  and  the 
gods,  are  to-day  altogether  bewildeitd  with  thy  bewilderment.  Wor- 
shippers praise  me  at  the  sacrifice,  singers  of  the  sama  chant  the 
rathantara,  Brahmans,  versed  in* the  veda  (brahma],  adore  me,  and 
Adhvaryu'(i.e.  Tajurvedic)  priests  (fivide  for  me  a  portion.'132  Devi 
replied :  '  Doubtless,  every  common  man  praxes  and  magnifies  himself 
in  an  assembly  ot  women.'  Mahadeva  answered:  'I  praise  not  myself, 
queen  of  the  gods;  "behold,  slender- waisted,  beautiful-complexioned 
[goddess],  what  being  I  shall  create.'"  Mahadeva  accordingly  creates 
a  dreadful  being,  who,  attended  by  hosts  of  other  frightful  creatures, 
demolishes  all  Daksha's  preparations  for  his  sacrifice.  Brahma  and 
the  other  gods  humbly  inquire  of  this  destrqyer  who  he  is.  He  replies 
that  te  is  neither  Rudra  nor  Devi,  but  Vlrabhadra,  sent  to  destroy  the 
sacrifice,  and  exhorts  them  to  submit  to  Mahadeva,  whose  wrath  is 
better  than  the  beneficence  of  any  other  god  (varam  Jcrodho  ''pi  devasya 
vara-danam  na  chdnyatali}.  Upon  this  Daksha  sings  the  praises  of 
Mahesvara.133  The  latter  then  appears,  and  assents  to  Daksha's  request 
that  his  preparations  for  sacrifice  shall  not  be  fruitless  (vv.  10338  if.). 
Daksha  then  celebrates  him  by  reciting  his  eight  thousand  names. 

The  following  is  an  abstract  of  the  same  story  as  told  in  the  Bhaga- 
vata  Purana,  book  iv.  sections  2-7,  with  a  colouring  different  from 
that  of  the  Hahabharata,  and  some  interesting  illustrations  of  the 
hostility  between  the  S'aivas  and  the  Yaishnavas,  or  between  the 
former  and  the  more  orthodox  adherents  of  the  Vedas,  which,  not- 

132  The  text  of  the  Vayu  Purana  as  translated  hy  Prof.  Wilson  (Vish.  Pur.,  p.  65 
=  p.  128  of  Dr.  Halloed,  vol.  i.)  differs  somewhat  from  that  of  the  Mahabharata,  as 
here  given.  The  former  text  has  been  copied  for  me  by  Prof.  Fitz-Edward  Hall 
from  the  Guikowar  MS.  in  the  India  Office  Library,  and  is  as  follows  :  Mamadhvare 
saihsitarah  stuvanii  rathantare  sama  gayanti  geyam  \  abrahmane  brahma-satre 
yajante  mamadhvaryavah  kalpayante  cha<bhagam  \  "At  my  sacrifice  worshippers 
praise  (me) ;  in  the  rathantara  they  sing  the  sama  song ;  they  adore  (me)  in  a  sacrifice 
of  devotion  without  Brahmans ;  and  the  adhvaryus  divide  for  me  a  portion."  It 
is  remarkable  that  Mahadeva's  worship  should  be  here  described  as  performed 
"  without  Brahinans."  But  what  are  we  to  make  of  the  word  "adhvaryu"?  Could 
it  mean,  in  later  times  at  least,  anything  else  than  the  Braimanical  priest  so  called  ? 

>*3  In  this  passage  (v.  10332)  Mahadeva  is  called  Vis'vakarman  (Devo  nahuyate 
tatra  Visvakarma  ATn  lies' varah).  Compare  the  passage  from  the  Eamayana,  above, 
p.  368  f.,  and  note  131,  p.  376.  There  appears  to  be  some  confusion  in  the  narrative 
as  given  in  verses  10331  ff.  Though  Daksha  had  already  made  his  submission  to 
Mahadeva,  the  story  seems  to  be  begun  over»again,  or  recapitulated. 


378  MAHADEVA  OMITS  TO  SALUTE  DAKSHA, 

withstanding  the  conciliation  of  the  conflicting  views  introduced  by 
the  writer  at  the  close  of  the  stoVy,  no  doubt  had,  and  perhaps  still 
has,  a  real  existence  in  the  minds  of  many  of'  the  sectaries.  Sati,  the 
wife  of  S'iva,  was  the  daughter  of  Eaksha,  as  we  are  told  in  the  same 
work  (iv.  1,  47,  48):  Prasutim  SldnamtJi  Dakshah  tipayeme  hy  Ajdt- 
majah  \  tasydih  sasarja  fiuhitrlh  shodasdmala-lochandh  J  trayodasdddd 
Dharmdya  tathaikdm  Agnaye  vibJiuh  \  pitribhyah  ekdm  yuktebkyo  Bkavd- 
yaikdm  bhava-chhide  \  "Daksha,  the  son  of  Aja  (the  'unborn' — he  is 
said  [v.  11]  to  be  the  son  of  Brahma=Aja),  married  Prasuti,  the 
daughter  of  Manu.  From  her  he  begot  sixteen  pure-eyed  daughters. 
Of  these  this  lord  gave  thirteen  to  Dharma,  one  to  Agni,  one  to  the 
meditative  [or  united,  samyatebhyo  militebJiyo  vd,  Comm.J  Pitris,  and 
one  to  Bhava  (S'iva),  the  destroyer  of  existence."  Sati,  however,' bore 
no  children  to  S'iva.  i.  64.  Bhavasya  patrii  tu  Sati  Bhavaih  devam 
anuvratd  \  dtmanah  sadrisam  putram  na  lebhe  guna-silatah  \ 

In  the  second  section  we  are  informed  how  enmity  arose  between 
Mahadeva  and  his  father-in-law  Daksha.  It  appears  that  the  gods 
and  rishis  were  assembled  at  a  sacrifice  celebrated  by  the  Prajapatis. 
On  the  entrance  of  Daksha,  all  the  personages  who  were  present,  rose 
to  salute  him,  excepting  only  Yirinchya  (Brahma)  and  Mahadeva. 
Daksha,  after  making  his  obeisance  to  Brahma,  sat  down  by  his 
command ;  but  was  offended  at  the  treatment  he  received  from  S'iva 
(iv.  2,  8  ff.) :  Prun  nishannam  Mridam  drishtvd  ndmrishat  tad-ana- 
dritah  \  uvacha  vdmam  chakshurbhydm  abhivihshya  dahann  iva  \  iruyatdm 
brahmarshayo  me  saha-devdh  sahdgnayah  \  sddhundm  bruvato  vrittam 
ndjndndd  na  cha  matsardt  \  ayam  tu  loka-pdldndm  yasoglmo  nirapatrapah  \ 
sadbhir  dcharitah  panthtih  yena  stabdhena  dvtehitah  \  esha  me  sishyatdm 
prdpto  yan  me  duhitur  agrahlt  \  pdnim  viprdgni-mukhatah  sdmtrydTi  iva 
sddhu-vat  \  grihltvd  mriga-sdvdksydh  pdnim  rrturkata-locjianah  \  praty- 
utthdndbliivdddrhe  vuchd  ''py  akrita  nochitam  \  lupta-kriydyasucliaye 
mdnine  bhinna-setave  \  anichhann  apy  addon  bdldih  sudrdyevosatim 
giram  \  pretdvdseshu  ghoreshu  pretair  bhuta-ganair  vritah  \  qtaty  wimatta- 
vad  nagno  vyupta-keso  basan  rudan  \  chitd-bhasma-krita-snanah  preta-sran 
nrasthi-bhushanah  \  sivtipadeso  hy  asiw  matto  matta-janapriyah  \  paiih 
pramatha-bhutdndm  tamo-rhdtrdtmakdtmandm  \  tasmai  unmdda-ndthdya 
nashta-sauchdya  durhride  \  dattd  mayd  vata  sddhvl  chodite  parameshthind  \ 
vinindyaivam  sa  Girisam  apratlp-sim  avasthitam  \  Daksho  'thdpah  upa- 


AND  IS  EEVILED  BY  HIM.  379 

sprisya  Icruddhah  saptum  prachakrame  \  ayam  tu  deva-yajane  Indropendra- 
difihir  Bhavah  \  saha  bhagam  na  fabhatam  devair  deva-ganadhamah  \ 
"  Beholding  Mrida  (S'iva")  previously  seated,  Daksha  did  not  brook  his 
want  of  respect ;  and  looking  at  him  obliquely  with  his  eyes,  as  if  con- 
suming him,  thus  spake  :  'Hea/  me,»ye  Brahman  rishis,  with  the  gods 
and  the  Agnis,  while  I,  neither  from  ignorance  nor  from  passion,  de- 
scribe what  is  tfie  practice  of  virtuous  persons.  But  this  shameless 
being  (S'iva)  detracts*  from  the  reputation  of  the  guardians  of  the 
world, — he  by  whom,  stubborn  as  he  is,  the  course  pursued  by  the 
good  is  transgressed.  He  assumed  the  position  of  my  disciple,  inas- 
much as,  like  a  virtuous  person,  in  the  face  of  Brahmans  and  of  fire, 
he  took  the  hand  of  my  daughter,  who.  resembled  Savitri.  This 
monkey-eyed  [god],  after  having  taken  the  hand  of  [my]  fawn-eyed 
[daughter],  has  not  even  by  word  shown  suitable  respect  to  me  whom 
he  ought  to  have  risen  and  saluted.  Though  unwilling,  I  yet  gave 
my  daughter  to  this  impure  and  proud  abolisher  of  rites  and  demolisher 
of  barriers,  like  the  word  of  the  Veda  m  to  a  S'udra.  He  roams  about 
in  dreadful  cemeteries,  attended  by  hosts  of  ghosts  and  sprites,  like  a 
madman,  naked,  with  dishevelled  hair,  laughing,  weeping,  bathed  in. 
the  ashes  of  funeral  piles,  wearing  a  garland  of  dead  men's  [skulls], 
and  ornaments  of  human  bones,  pretending  to  be  S'iva  (auspicious) 
but  in  reality  Asiva  (inauspicious),  insane,  beloved  by  the  insane,  the 
lord  of  Pramathas  and  Bhutas  (sprites),  beings  whose  nature  is  essen- 
tially darkness.  To  this  wicked-heartftd  lord  of  the  infuriate,  whose 
purity  has  perished,  I  have,  alas!  given  my  virtuous  daughter,  at  the 

instigation  of  Brahma.'135     Having  thus  reviled  Girisa  (S'iva),  who 

• 

134  Usatlih  giram,  which  the  commentator  explains  <veda-lakshana.ni  giram.     It 
occurs  also  elsewhere  in  this  same  Puraua,  as  in  iii.  16,  13,  where  the  Comm.  renders 
it  by  kamanlyam,  "to  be  lo?ed."     See  Bb'htlingk  and  Roth,  vol.  v.,  p.  1204,  s.v. 

135  The  commentator  gives  as  follows  wSat  he  calls  the  real,  esoteric,  sense  of  this 
abuse : —  Vastavas  tv  ayam  arthah  \  luptah  kriyah  yasmin  para-brahma-rupatvat  \ 
atah  eva  nasti  suchir  yasmat  \  nmanine  abhinna-setave  iti  cha  chhedah  \  tasya  paremes- 
varasyff  madiya  manushi  kanya  kathaih  yogya  syad  iti  lajjadina  datum  anichhann  api 
tat-sambandha-lobhena  dattavan  \  'sudrayeti '  anarhatva-mutre  drishtanto  na  hlnatve 
puri^apara-sva-vachana-virodhapatteh  \  etad  uktam  bhavati  \  yatha  kaschit  sudrdya 
ved&m  artha-lobhena  dadati  \   ' pretavaseshv '  ityadi  sarvain  vidambana-matram  iti  \ 
svayam  eva  aha  ' unmatta-vad '  iti  |  anyatha  tunmat1ah'  ity  eva  avakshyat  \  'asivah' 
nasti  sivo  yasmat  \   amattah  \  amatta-jana-priyah  \   iti  chhedah  \   '•patih  pramatha- 
bhutanam'  iti  bhakta-vatsalyam  aha\tamasanapidoshamapanlyapatiiti  \  nashtanam 
api  saucham  suddhir  yasmat  \  dushteshv  apy  e4e  maya  anukampyah  iti  hrin  mano  yasya 


380  NANDIS'VARA  CURSES  THE  CONTEMNERS,  AND 

did  not  oppose  him,  Daksha  having  then  touched  water,  incensed, 
began  to  curse  him  [thus]:  'Let-  this  Bhava  (S'iva),  lowest  of  the 
gods,  never,  at  the  worship  of  the  gods,  receive  any  portion  along 
with  the  gods  Indra,  TJpendra  (Viyhnu),  and  others.' "  Having  de- 
livered his  malediction,  Daksha  departed.  A  counter-malediction,  as 
follows,  was  then  uttered,  upon  him  and  the  Brahmans  who  took  his 
part,  by  Nandlsvara,  one  of  the  chief  of  Mahadeva's '.followers: 

21  ff. —  Yah  etam  martyam  uddisya  lhagavaty  apratidruhi  \  druhyaty 
ajnah  prithag-drishtis  tattvato  mmukho  Uiavet  \  griheshu  Icuta-dharmeshu 
sakto  grdmya-sukhechhayd\  Icarma-tantram  vttanutdd136  veda-vada-mpanna- 
dhlh  |  luddhyd  pardlhidhydyinyd  vismritdtma-gatih  pasuh  \  strl-Tcdmah 
so  'stu  nitardm  Daksho  vasta-mukho  'chirat  \  vidyd-luddhir  avidydydm 
liar mamay yam  asau  jadaTi  \  samsarantv  iha  ye  chdmum  anu  S'arvdvctmd- 
ninam  \  girali  srutdydh  pushpinydh  madhu-gandhena  Ihurina  \  mathnd 
chonmathitdtmdnah  sammuliyantu  Hara-dvishah  \  sarva-bhafohdh  dvijdh 
vrittyai  dhrita-vidyd-tapo-vratdh  \  vitta-dehendriydrdmdh  yacliakdh 
vtcharantv  iha  \  "  May  the  ignorant  being  who,  from  regard  to  this 
mortal  (Daksha),  and  considering  [S'iva]  as  distinct  .[from  the  supreme 

sa  durhrit  tasmai  \  lvala'  iti  harshe  \  Brahmano  vakya\l?~\  lajja-bhayadikam 
pdiityajya  datta  ity  arthah  \  "The  real  meaning  (of  vv.  13  if.)  is  this:  'He  in 
whom  works  are  destroyed,  owing  to  his  character  of  supreme  Brahma;  in  consequence 
of  which  there  is  none  purer  than  he.'  Instead  of  ma  nine  and  bhinna-setave,  the 
division  of  words  may  also  be  amanine,  abhinna-setave,  '  not  proud,'  '  not  demolisher 
of  harriers.'  Though  unwilling  to  give  my  daughter  through  modesty,  etc.,  from  a 
feeling  that  my  human  daughter  could  not  be  worthy  of  the  supreme  lord,  I  never- 
theless gave  her  from  a  covetous  desire  of  being  connected  with  him.  The  words 
'  as  to  a  S'udra '  are  merely  an  illustration  to  express  unfitness,  and  not  defectiveness, 
otherwise  there  would  be  a  contradiction  between  his  preceding  and  his  following 
words.  The  sense  is  this :  'just  as  any  oae  through  cbvetousness  of  money  gives  the 
Veda  to  a  S'Qdra.'  The  words  '  in  cemeteries,'  etc.,  are  a  mere  disguise.  He  him- 
self says  '  like  a  madman.'  Otherwise  he  would  have  saul  '  a  madman.'  Asiva,  in- 
auspicious, means  he  than  whom  none  is  more  auspicious.  The  words  matta  and  matta- 
jana-priya  should  be  so  divided  as  to  be  preceded  by  a  negative,  and  thus  mean  '  not 
insane,'  '  beloved  by  the  not-insane.'  The  words  '  lord^  of  Pramathas,'  etc.,  intimate 
his  love  for  those  devoted  to  him.  The  sense  is  i,hat,  removing  their  faultiness,  he 
cherishes  even  those  who  have  the  quality  of  darkness.  Nashta-'Jattchaya  means 
that  from  him  comes  purity  to  the  depraved.  Durhrit  means  he  whose  heart,  feeling, 
suggests  that  '  even  these,  although  wicked,  are  to  be  compassionated  by  me.'  Vflta 
intimates  joy.  '  Owing  to  the  injunction  of  Brahma,  abandoning  modesty,  fear,  etc., 
I  gave  my  daughter : '  such  is  the  sense." 

136  This  is  Burnouf's  reading.  It  is  an  archaic,  Vedic,  form.  The  Bombay  edition 
reads  vitanute. 


BHRIGU  CURSES  THE  VOTARIES,  OF  MAHADEVA.  381 

spirit], — hates  the  deity  who  does  not  return  the  hatred, — be  averse  to 
the  truth.  Devoted  to  domestic  life,*in  which  frauds  are  prevalent,137  let 
him,  from  a  desire  of  vulgar  pleasures,  practise  the  round  of  ceremonies, 
with  an  understanding  degraded  ty  Vedic  prescriptions.138  Forgetting 
the  nature  of  soul,  with  a  mind  which  contemplates  other  things,  let 
Daksha,  brutal,  be  exces'sively  devoted  to  wpmen,  and  have  speedily 
the  face  of  a  goat.  Let  this  stupid  being,  who  has  a  conceit  of  know- 
ledge, and  all  those  wno 'follow  this  contemner  of  S'arva  (S'iva),  continue 
to  exist  in  this  world  in  ceremonial  ignorance.  Let  the  enemies  of 
Hara  (S'iva),  whose  minds  are  disturbed  by  the  strong  spirituous  odour 
and  the  excitement  of  the  flowery  words  139  of  the  Veda,  become 
deluded  !  Let  those  Brahmans,  eating  all  sorts  of  food,  professing 
knowledge  and  practising  austerities  and  ceremonies  [merely]  for  sub- 
sistence, delighting  in  riches  and  in  corporeal  and  sensual  enjoyments, 
wander  about  as  beggars ! " 

The  wrath  of  Bhrigu,  one  of  the  sages  present  at  the  sacrifice,  is 
aroused  by  this  curse : 

27  ff. — Tasyaivam  dadatah  sdpam  srutvd  dvija-lculaya  vai  \  Bhriguh 
pratyasrijach  chhapam  brahma-dandam  duratyayam  \  Bhava-vrata-dharah 
ye  clia  ye  cha  tan  samanuvratah  \  pdshandinas  te  bhavantu  sachchhustra- 
paripanthinah  \  nashta-sauchdh  mudha-dhiyo  jata-bhasmdsthi-dhdrinah  \ 
visantu  S'iva-dlkshayam  yatra  daivaih  surdsavam  \  brahma  cha  brdhma- 
nams  chaiva  yad  yuyam  parinindatha  \  setum  vidharanam  pumsam  atah 
pashandam  dsritdh  \  esha  eva  hi  lokdnii-ffi  sivah  panthd  sandtanah  \  yam 
purve  chanusamtasthur  yat-pramanam  Janardanah  \  tad  brahma  paramam 

suddham  satdm  vartma  sanatanam  \  vigarhya  yata  pashandam  daivam  vo 

• 

137  The  words  so  rendered,  griheshu  kuta-dharmeshu,  occur  thrice  in  this  Purana 
(see  Bohtlingk  and  Roth  s.v.  kuta-dharma),  viz.,  in  iii.  30,  10  ;  in  iv.  25,  6 ;  and  in 
the  verse  before  us.  In  his  note  on  iii.  30,  10  (verse  9  in  the  Bombay  edition)  the 
commentator  explains  the  word  kuta-dhar*ushu  as  meaning  houses  "in  which  frauds, 
practices  such  as  roguery  in  regard  to  money,  etc.,  prevail"  (kutah  vitta-iathyadi- 
bahulah  dharmiih  yeshu}.  In»his  remarks  on  the  other  passages  he  gives  no  explana- 
tion oMhe  word.  In  his  translation  of  iii.  30,  10,  M.  Burnouf  renders  the  term  by 
"sa  maison  ou  dominent  le  mensonge  [et  la  misere,"  duhkha-tantreshu~\\  in  the  verse 
before  us  by  "  attache  dans  les  maisons,  a  des  vils  devoirs  v  ;  and  similarly  in  iv.  25, 
6, 'by  "  au  milieu  des  devoirs  vulgaires  d'un  maitre  de  maison." 

ii8  This  depreciation  of  the  Vedas  may  have  ariser»from  a  consciousness  on  the  part 
of  the  S'aivas,  that  their  worship  was  not  very  consistent  with  the  most  venerated 
Scriptures  of  their  own  country. 

139  Compare  the  Bhagavad  Gita  ii.  42  ff.,  fjuoted  in  the  3rd  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  31  f. 


382  MAHADEVA'S  HOSTILITY  TO  DAKSHA, 

yatra  Ihuta-rat  \  "  Hearing  him  thus  utter  a  curse  against  the  tribe 
of  Brahmans,  Bhrigu  launched  a  >  counter-imprecation,  a  Brahmanical 
weapon,  hard  to  he  evaded :  'Let  those  who  practise  the  rites  of  Bhava 
(Mahadeva),  and  all  their  followers,^be  heretics,  and  opponents  of  the 
true  scriptures.  Having  lost  their  purity,  deluded  in  understanding, 
wearing  matted  hair,  and  ashes  and  bones,  let  them  undergo  the  initia- 
tion of  S'iva,  in  which  spirituous  liquor  is  the  deity."  Since  ye  revile 
the  veda  (brahma)  and  Brahmans,  the  barriers  by  which  men  are 
restrained,  ye  have  embraceh.  heresy.  For  this  [veda]  is  the  auspicious 
(siva)  eternal  path  of  the  people,  which  the  ancients  have  trod,  and 
wherein  Janardana  (Vishnu)  is  the  authority.  Reviling  this  veda 
(lrahma\  supreme,  pure,  the  eternal  path  of  the  virtuous,  follow  the 
heresy  in  which  your  god  is  the  king  of  goblins.' " 

On  hearing  this  imprecation,  S'iva  departed  with  his  followers,  while 
Daksha  and  the  other  Prajapatis  celebrated  for  a  thousand  years  the 
sacrifice  in  which  Yishnu  was  the  object  of  adoration. 

The  enmity  between  the  father-in-law  and  son-in-law  continues 
(sect.  3).  Daksha  being  elevated  by  Brahma  to  the  rank  of  chief  of 
the  Prajapatis,  becomes  elated.  He  commences  a  great  sacrifice  called 
Vrihaspatisava.  Seeing  the  other  gods  with  their  wives  passing  to  this 
sacrifice,  Sati  presses  her  husband,  S'iva,  to  accompany  her  thither. 
He  refers  to  the  insults  which  he  had  received  from  her  father,  and 
advises  her  not  to  go.  She,  however  (sect.  4),  being  anxious  to  see 
her  relatives,  disregards  his  wavning  and  goes ;  but  being  slighted  by 
her  father,  Daksha,  she  reproaches  him  for  his  hostility  to  her  husband, 
and  threatens  to  abandon  the  corporeal  frame  by  which  she  was  con- 
nected with  her  parent.  She  then  voluntarily  gives  up  the  ghost. 
Seeing  this,  S'iva's  a^endants,  who  had  followed  her,  rush  on  Daksha 
to  kill  him.  Bhrigu,  however,  throws  an  oblction  into  the  southern 
fire,  pronouncing  a  Yajus  text  suited  to  destroy  the  destroyers  of 
sacrifice  (yojna-ghna-ghnena  yajusha  dakshinagnau  juhava  ha).  A  troop 
of  Ribhus  in  consequence  spring  up,  who  put  S'iva's  followers  to  Sight. 
S'iva  is  filled  with  wrnth  when  he  hears  of  the  death  of  Sati  (sect,  5). 
From  a  lock  of  his  hair,  which  he  tore  out,  a  gigantic  demon  arose, 
whom  he  commanded  to  destroy  Daksha  and  his  sacrifice.  This  demon 
proceeds  with  a  troop  of  S'iva's  followers,  and  they  all  execute  the 
mandate.  15  fl7.  Rurujur  yajnc-patruni  tathaike  'gnln  anusayan  \ 


WHOSE  SACRIFICE  HE  BREAKS  UP.  383 

kundeshv  amutrayan  JcecJiid  lilhidur  vedi-melchaldh  \  alddkanta  munin 
anye  ekepatnlr  atarjayan  \  apare  jagrikur  devdn pratydsanndn paldyitdn\ 
...  19.  jukvatah  sruva-'hastasypt  smasruni  lhagavdn  Bhavah  \  BJirigor 
lulunche  sadasi  yo  'hasat  smasru  dflrsayan  \  Bhagasya  netre  lhagavdn 
pdtitasya  rushd  bhuvi  \  ujjahdra  sacfahstho  'kshnd  yah  sapantam  asu- 
suchat  |  Pushnas  chdpdtaydd  dantdn  Kdlingasya  yathd  Balah  \  sapyamdne 
garimaniuo  yo  'ha%ad  darsayan  datah  \  15.  "  Some  broke  the  sacrificial 
vessels,  others  destroyed  the  fires,  others  made  water  in  the  ponds, 
others  cut  the  boundary-cords  of  the  sacrificial  ground;  others  as- 
saulted the  Munis,  others  reviled  their  wives ;  others  seized  the  gods 

who  were  near,  and  those  who  had  fled 19.  The  divine  Bhava 

(S'iva)  plucked  out  the  beard  of  Bhrigu,  who  was  offering  oblations 
with  a  ladle  in  his  hand,  and  who  had  laughed  in  the  assembly,  show- 
ing his  beard.  He  also  tore  out  the  eyes  of  Bhaga,  whom  in  his  wrath 
he  had  felled  to  the  ground,  and  who,  when  in  the  assembly,  had  made 
a  sign  to  [Daksha  when]  cursing  [S'iva].  He  moreover  knocked 
out  the  teeth  of  Pushan111  (as  Bala  did  the  king  of  Kalinga's),  who 
(Pushan)  had  laughed,  showing  his  teeth,  when  the  great  god  was 
being  cursed."  Tryambaka  (S'iva,  or  Virabhadra,  according  to  the 
commentator)  then  cuts  off  the  head  of  Daksha,  but  not  without  some 
difficulty.  The  gods  report  all  that  had  passed  to  Svayambhu  (Brahml), 
who,  with  Vishnu,  had  not  been  present  (sect.  6).  Brahma  advises 
the  gods  to  propitiate  S'iva,  whom  they  had  wrongfully  excluded  from 
a  share  in  the  sacrifice  (v.  5.  atJidpi  yuyam  Jcrita-Jcilvishdh  Bhavam 
ye  larhisho  IJiuga-lhujam  pardduh].  The  deities,  headed  by  Aja 
(Brahma),  accordingly  proceed  t*o  Kailasa,  when  they  see  S'iva  "  bear- 
ing the  linga  desired  by  Devotees,  ashes,  a  staff,  a  tuft  of  hair,  an 
antelope's  skin,  and  a  digit  of  the  moon,  his  body^iining  like  an  even- 
ing cloud"  (v.  35.  Vmgnncha  tdpasdbhlshtam  lhasma-danda-jatdjinam  \ 
angena  sandhyd-lhra-ruchd  chandra-lkkhdncha  bibhratam}.  Brahma  ad- 
dresses Mahadeva  "as  the  eternal  Brahma,  the  Idrd  of  S'akti  and  S'iva, 
who  are  respectively  the  womb  and  the  seed  of  the  universe, — who, 
in  sport,  like  a  spider,  forms  all  things  from  S'akti  and  S'iva,  who  are 
con^iibstantial  with  himself,  and  preserves  and  reabsorbs  them"  (w. 

> 

140  Garimani  gurutare  Rudre  \  Comm. 

141  See  Taitt.  Sanhita,  ii.  6,  8,  3,  and  other  texts  quoted  above,  pp.  200  ff.,  for  the 
older  story.  , 


384    MAHADEVA  PROPITIATED;  D.'S  SACRIFICE  RECOMMENCED. 

41  f.  jane  tvdm  Isam  visvasya  jagato  yoni-vljayoh  \  S'akteh  S'ivasya  cha 
param  yat  tad  Brahma,  mrantaram  \  tvatn  eva  bhagavann  etach  Chhiva- 
S'aktyoh  sarupayoh  \  visvaih  srijasi  papy  atsi  tiridann  urna-pato  yatha). 
(A  similar  supremacy,  as  we  shall  see,  is  ascribed  to  Vishnu  in  section  7.) 
Brahma  adds  that  it  was  this  great  being  who  had  instituted  sacrifice, 
and  all  the  regulations  which  Brahmans  devoutly  observe ;  and  entreats 
him,  who  is  beyond  all  illusion,  to  have  mercy  on  thtse  who,  overcome 
by  its  influence,  had  wrongly  attached  importance  to  ceremonial  works, 
and  to  restore  the  sacrifice  di  Daksha,  at  which  a  share  had  been  refused 
to  him  by  evil  priests  (v.  49.  Na  yatra  bhdgam  tava  bhugino  daduh  kuya- 
jvinah}.  Mahadeva  partly  relents  (sect.  7),  and  allows  Daksha  to  have 
a  goafs-faced  head,  Bhaga  to  see  with  Mitra's  eyes,  Pushan  to  eat  with 
the  teeth  of  his  worshipper,  Bhrigu  to  have  a  he-goat's  beard,  etc.  (vv. 
3  ff.)  Daksha,  after  having  had  a  goat's  head  fitted  to  his  body,  celebrates 
the  praises  of  S'iva  (vv.  8  ff.).  The  sacrifice  is  then  recommenced,  and 
in  order  to  its  completion,  and  to  remove  the  pollution  occasioned  by 
the  touch  of  Mahadeva's  warriors,  an  oblation  is  made  to  Vishnu  on 
three  platters  (v.  17.  Faishnavam  yajna-santatyaitrikapalam  dvijottamdh\ 
puroddsam  niravapan  vira-samsarga-suddhaye),  Hari  (Vishnu)  being 
meditated  on,  then  appears  (v.  18),  is  saluted  with  the  greatest  rever- 
ence by  the  gods,  headed  by  Brahma,  Indra,  and  S'iva  (Tryaksha); 
is  lauded  successively  by  Daksha,  by  the  priests,  by  Kudra  himself, 
etc.,  etc.  (vv.  26  ff.),  and  at  length  expresses  himself  as  follows,  in  such 
a  manner  as  to  demonstrate  the  futility  of  the  dispute  between  Daksha 
and  Mahadeva,  and  to  show  that  he  himself  was  the  one  supreme  deity, 
of  whom  all  the  others  were  only  the  manifestations,  though  in  reality 
one  in  their  essence : 

V.  50.  Srl-BhagQ/dn  uvdcha  \  aJiam  Brahma  cha  Sarvas  cha  jagaiah 
kdranam  param  \  utmesvarah  upadrashtu  svaiffimdrig  aviseshanah  |  51. 
atma-mayum  samavisya  so  'ham  gunamaylm  dvija  \  srijan  rakshan  haran 
visvaih  dadhre  samjnam  kriyochit&m  \  52.  tasmin  Brahmany  advitiye  kevale 
paramatmani  \  Brahma- Rudrau  cha  bhutdni  bhedenujno  'mtpasyati  \  53. 
yathd  puman  na  svdngeshu  sirah-pdny-adishu  kvachit  \  pdrakya-buddhim 
Tcurute  evam  bhuteshu  mat-parah  \  54.  Traydndm  eka-bhdvdndm  yo  na 
pasyati  vat  bhiddm  \  sarva-tbhutdtmandm  brahman  sa  sdntim  adhigachhati\ 
50.  "I  am  Brahma  and  S'arva  (S'iva),  the  supreme  cause  of  the  world, 
the  soul,  the  lord,  the  witness,  the  self-manifesting  (or,  self-beholding), 


DISPUTE  BETWEEN  BEAHMA  AND  VISHNU.  385 

devoid  of  attributes.  51.  Entering  into  my  own  illusion  consisting  of 
the  [three]  Gunas  (qualities) — creating,  preserving,  and  destroying — I 
have  assumed  names  corresponding  to  my  several  acts.  52.  In  that 
one  and  only  Brahma,  the  supreme,  Spirit,  the  ignorant  person  per- 
ceives a  distinction  of  Brahma  and  Ru^ra,  and  creatures.  53.  But  as 
a  man  does  not  think  of  his  own  members,  his  head,  hands,  etc.,  as 
belonging  to  another,  so  the  man  who  is  devoted  to  me  [does  not  look 
upon]  created  things  [as  Distinct  from  me].  54.  He  who  beholds  no 
distinction  between  the  three  gods  who  art?  one  in  essence,  and  the 
soul  of  all  things,  attains  tranquillity." 

Daksha,  after  adoring  Vishnu,  worships  the  other  gods,  and  offers  to 
Rudra  his  proper  share  in  the  sacrifice  (vv.  55  f.).  Sati,  the  daughter 
of  Daksha,  who  had  abandoned  her  original  body,  is  born  again  as 
the  daughter  of  Himavat  and  Mena  (v  58.  evam  D&kshayanl  hitvd  Sail 
purva-Tcalevaram  \  jajne  Himavatah  Tcshetre  Menaydm  iti  susruma).uz 

The  S'aiva  compiler  of  the  Linga  Parana  takes  his  revenge  on  the 
Vaishnava  writers,  who,  like  the  author  of  the  Bhagavata  Purana,  have 
exalted  Vishnu  at  the  expense  of  S'iva,  by  narrating  the  following 
legend  of  an  undignified  dispute  between  Brahma  and  Vishnu  regard- 
ing their  respective  claims  to  superiority,  and  of  the  apparition  of  the 


142  The  same  account  of  Sati's  double  birth  is  given  in  the  Vishnu  Purana,  i.  8, 9  ff. : 
Evam-prakaro  Rudro  'sau  Satlm  bharyam  avindata  \  ^Daksha-kopachcha  tatyaja  sa 
Sad  svaih  kalevaram  \  Himavad-duhita  sa  'bhud  Menayaih  dvija-sattama  \  upayeme 
punas  chomam  ananyam  bhagavan  Bhavah  \  "Euflra,  being  of  the  character  thus  de- 
scribed (i.e.  one  of  the  eight  forms  of  the  son  born  to  Brahma :  see  above,  pp.  339  ff.) 
obtained  Sati  for  his  wife.  This  Sati  abandoned  her  body  in  consequence  of  the  anger 
of  Daksha.  She  then  became  the  daughter  of  Himavat  and  Mena. ;  and  the  divine 
Bhava  again  married  Umli  who  was  identical  [with  his  former  spouse]."  In  the  pre- 
ceding section  (the  7th)  of  the  Vishnu  Purana,  Sati  is  mentionMas  one  of  the  twenty- 
four  daughters  of  Daksha ;  but  the  husband,  Bhava,  to  whom  «ie  is  said  to  have  been 
givemn  marriage,  is  enumerated  (as  is  also  Agni)  among  the  Munis  to  whom  Daksha' s 
daughters  were  wedded:  Tabhyah  sishtah  kanlyasyah  ekadasa  sulochanah  \  Khyatih 
Saty  atha  Sambhutih  Smritih  Pntih  Kshama  tatha  \  Sannatis  ehanusuya  cha  Urja 
Svaha  Svadha  tatha  \  Bhrigur  \Bhayo  Marlchis  cha  tatha  chaivangirah  munih  \ 
Pulastyatfl'ulahas  chaiva  Kratus  charshi-varas  tatha  \  Atrir  Vasishtho  Vahnis  cha 
Pitaras  cha  yatha-kramam  \  Khyaty-adyahjagrihuh  kanyah  munayo  muni-sattuma  \ 
"  Youijger  than  them  (the  other  thirteen  daughters  of  Daksha)  were  eleven  virtuous 
and  Wvely-eyed  damsels,  Khyati,  Sati,  Sambhuti,  Smriti,  Priti,  Kshama,  Sunnati, 
Anusuya,  Urja,  Svaha,  and  Svadha.  Bhrigu,  ^Aova.^MwIoM,  the  muni  Angiras, 
Pulastya,  Pulaha,  Kratu  the  excellent  rishi,  Atri,  Vasishtha,  Vahni  (i.e.  Agni  or  fire), 

and  the  Pitris, — these  munis  in  order  married  Khyati  and  the  other  maidens." 

i 
VOL.  iv.  25 


386  LINGA  PURANA  DESCRIBES  APPARITION 

Linga  to  rebuke  and  humble  them  by  pointing  out  the  inferiority  of 
both  to  the  supreme  Mahadeva  :„ 

Linga  Purana,  i.  17,  5-52. — Pitdmahah  ifvdcha  \  Pradhdnani  lingam 
dkhydtam  lingi  cha  paramesvarah  \  rakshdrtham  ambudhau  mahyam 
"Pishnos  tv  dslt  surottamdh  \  vaimdnike  gate  sarge  jana-loknm  saharshi- 
bhih  |  sthilikule  tadd  purne  tatah  pratydhrite  tathd  \  chatur-yuga- 
sahasrdnte  satyalokam  gate  surah  \  vind  " 'dhipatyafr*  samatum  gate  'nte 
Srahmano  mama]  sushke  cha  sthdvare  sarve  tv- aritivrishtyd  cha  sarvasah  \ 
pasavo  mdnushdh  vrikshdf  pisuchah  pisitasanuh  \  gandharvudyah  Jcra- 
menatia  nirdagdhuh  bhdnu-bhdnubhih  \  ekdrnave  mahughore  tamo-lhute 
samantatah  \  pushte  (?)  hy  ambhasi  yogutmd  nirmalo  nirupaplavah  \ 
sahasra-slrshdh  visvdtmd  sahasrdkshah  sahasra-pdt  \  sahasrabdhuh  sarvaj- 
nah  sarva-deva-lhavodlhavah  \  Hiranyagarlho  rajasd  tamasd  S'ankarah 
svayam  \  sattvena  sarvago  Vishnuh  sarvdtmatve  Ifahesvarah  \  hlldtmd 
kdla-ndbhas  tu  suklah  krishnas  tu  nirgunah  \  Ndrdyano  mahdbdhuh 
sarvdtmd  sadasanmayah  \  tathd  bhutam  aham  drishtvd  sayunam  panTca- 
jekshanam  \  mdyayd  mohitas  tasya  tarn  avocham  amarshitah  \  kas  tvant 
vadeti  hastena  samutthdpya  sandtanam  \  tadd  hasta-prahdrena  tnrena 
sa  dridhena  tu  \  prabuddho  'hlya-sayandt  sdmdsmah  kshanam  vasl  \ 
dadarsa  nidrd-viklinnam  riirajdmala-lochanah  \  mum  agre  samsthitam 
'uhdsti'dhydsito  lhagavdn  Harih  \  aha  chotthdya  bhagavdn  hasan  mam 
madhuram  sakrit  \  svdgatam  svdgatam  vatsa  pitdmaha  mahddyute  \  tasya 
tad  vachanaih  srutvd  smita-purvam  surarshabhdh  \  rajasd  viddha-vairas 
cha  tarn  avocham  Jandrdanam  \  bhdshase  vatsa  vatseti  sarga-samhdra- 
kdranam  \  mum  ihdntah-smitam  kritvd  guruh  sishyam  ivdnagha  \  kartd- 
ram  jagatum  sdkshdt  prakritescha  pravartakam  \  sandtanam  ajam  Vish- 
num  Virinchim  visva-sambhavam  \  visvdtmdnam  f:idhdtdram  dhdtdram 
pankajekshanam  \  kimartham  bhashase  mohdd  vaktum  arhasi  satvaram  \ 
so  Jpi  mum  dha  jagatum  kartd  'ham  iti  lokqya  \  bJiartd  hartd  bh^rdn 
angdd  avatlrno  mamdvyaydt  \  tismrito  '«»  jaganndtham  Nurayanam 
andmayam  \  purusham  paramdtmdnam  puru-hutam  purushtutam  \  Vish- 
num  achyutam  isdnam  visvasya  prabhavodbhavam  \  tavdparddho  nasty  atra 
mama  mdyd-kritam  tv  idam  \  srinu  satyam  chaturvaktra  sarva-devesvaro 
hy  aham  \  kartd  netd  cha  hartd  cha  na  mayd  'sti  samo  vibhuh  \  ahasn  eva 
param  Brahma  param  tatjvam  pitdmaha  \  aham  eva  paramjyotih  param- 
dtmd  tv  aham  vibhuh  \  yad  yad  drishtam  srutam  sarvam  jagaty  asmins 
chardcharam  \  tat  tad  viddhi  chaturvaktra  sarvam  manmayam  ity  atha  \ 


OF  THE  LINGA  TO  BRAHMA  AND  VISHNU.  387 

mayd  srishtam  purd  vyaktam  chatwrvimsatikam  svayam  \  nitydntdh  hy 
anavo  baddhdh  srishtdh  krodhodbhavddqyah  \  prasdddd  hi  bhavdn  anddny 
anekdnlha  Maya  \  srishtd  huddhir  mayd  tasydm  ahankdras  tridhd  tatah  \ 
tanmdtra-panchakam  tasmdd  mano  dehendriydni  cha  \  dkdsddlni  Ihutdni 
bhautikdni  fha  lllayd  \  ity  uktavati  tasmims  cha  mayi  chdpi  vachas  tathd  \ 
dvayos  chdbhavad  yuddhant  sughoram  romaharshanam  \  pralaydrnava- 
madhye  tu  rajasd*  baddha-vairayoh  \  etasminn  antare  lingam  abhavach 
chdvayoh  pur  ah  \  mvdda-^amandrtham  hi  jorabodhdrtham  tathd^vayoh  \ 
jvdld-mdld-sahasrddhyam  kdldnala-satopamar,*  \  kshaya-vriddhi-vinirmulc- 
tam  ddi-madhydnta-varjitam  \  anaupamyam  anirdetyam  avyaktam  visva- 
sambhavam  \  tasya  jvdld-sahasrena  mohito  bhagavdn  Harih  \  mohitatn 
prdJia  mdm  atra  parikshdvo  'ffni-sambhavam  \  adho  gamishydmy  anala- 
stambhasydnupamasya  cha  \  bhavan  urdhvam  'prayatnena  gantum  arhasi 
(sic)  satvaram  \  evam  vydhritya  visvdtmd  svarupam  akarot  tadd  \  vdraham 
aham  apy  dsu  hamsatvam  prdptavdn  surah  \  tadd-prabhriti  mdm  ahur 
hamsam  hamso  virdd  iti  \  hamsa  hamseti  yo  bruydd  mdm  hamsah  sa 
bhavishyati  \  susveto  hy  analdksha£  cha  msvatah  paksha-samyutah  \  mano- 
'nila-javo  bhutvd  gato  'ham  chordhvatah  surah  \  Ndrdyano  'pi  visvdtmd 
rilldnjana-chayopamam  \  dasa-yojana-vistirnam  sata-yojanam  dyatam  \ 
Meru-parvata-varshmdnam  gaura-tlkshndgra-dashtrinam \  kdldditya-samd- 
bhasam  dirgha-ghonam  mahdsvanam  \  hrasva-pddam  vichitrdngam  jaitrdflh 
dridham  anaupamam  \  vdraham  asitam  rupam  dsthdya  gatavdn  adhah  \ 
evam  varsha-sahasram  tu  tvaran  Fishnur  adho  gatah  \  ndpasyad  alpam 
apy  asya  mulam  lingasya  sukarah  \  tdvatjcdlam  gato  hy  urdhvam  aham 
apy  arisudandh  \  satvaram  sarva-yatnena  tasydntam  jndtum  ichhayd  \ 
srdnto  hy  adrishtvd  tasydntam  ahankdrdd™  adho  gatah  \  tathaiva  bha- 
gavdn  Vishnuh  srdntah  samtrasta-lochanah  \  sarva-deva-bhavas  turnam 
utthitah  sa  mahdvapuh  \  samdgato  mayd  sdrdham  pranipatya  mahd- 
mandh l44  j  mdyayd  mohitqh  S'ambhos  tathd  samvigna-mdnasah  \  prishtha- 
tah  pdrsvatas  chaiva  chdgratah  parawxsvaram  \  pranipatya  mayd  sdrdh- 
am sasmdra  kirn  idam  tv  iti  \  tadd  samabhavat  tatra  nddo  vai  sabda- 
lakshanah  \  om  om  iti  sura-sreshthah  suvyaktah  pluta-lakshanah  \  kirn  idam 
tv  iti  sanchint'])a  mayd  tishthan  mahdsvanam  \  lingasya  dakshine  bhdge 
tadd^pasyat  sandtanam  \  ddyam  varnam  a-kdram  tu  u-kdram  chottare 
tatah  I  ma-kdram  madhytas  chaiva  ndddntam  tqsya  chom  iti  \ 

143  In  a  transcript  of  this  passage  made  for  me  in  India,  and  published  in  my 
Matapartksha,  the  reading  is  aham  kalad,  which  seems  a  preferable  reading. 

144  BhayM  muhuh— reading  in  the  Matapaftksha. 


388  VISHNTT  ROTTSED  FROM  SLEEP  BY  BRAHMA: 

"  Pitamaha  (Brahma,  in  answer  to  an  inquiry  of  the  gods  and  rishis) 
says :  '  Pradhana  (nature)  is  called  the  Linga,  and  ParamesVara  is 
called  Lingin  U5  (the  sustainer  of  the  Linga);  It  arose  for  the  preser- 
vation of  myself  and  Vishnu  in  the  ocean,  0  deities.  When  the 
Vaimanika 146  creation  had  proceeded  with  the  rishis  to  the  Tanaloka,147 
and  when — the  period  of  the  continuance  [of  the  world]  having  then 
been  completed, — [all  things]  had  been  absorbed,  at  the  end  of  the 
thousand  sets  of  four  yugas,  and  had  departed  to  the  Satyaloka — 
I,  Brahma,  being  at  length  reduced  to  a  condition  of  equality  [with 
other  creatures]  without  dominion  over  them,148  and  all  immovable 
things  having  become  altogether  dried  up  from  want  of  rain, — beasts, 
men,  trees,  Pisachas,  flesh-eating  goblins,  Gandharvas,  etc.,  were  by 
degrees  burnt  up  by  the  rays  of  the  sun.  The  one  awful  ocean  being 
everywhere  enveloped  in  darkness,  the  great-armed  Narayana,  the  soul 
of  all  things,  formed  of  existence  and  non-existence,  sleeps 149  upon  the 
water,  plunged  in  contemplation,  spotless,  tranquil,  thousand-headed, 
the  soul  of  the  universe,  thousand-eyed,  thousand-footed,  thousand- 
armed,  omniscient,  the  source  of  the  existence  of  all  the  gods,  he  who 
is  himself  through  passion  (rajas)  Hiranyagarbha,  through  darkness 
(tamas)  S'ankara,  through  goodness  (sattva]  the  all-pervading  Vishnu, 
and  in  his  universality  Mahesvara,  having  the  character  of  time,  having 
time  for  his  centre,150  white,  black,  free  from  the  three  qualities,  the 
great-armed  Narayana,  the  universal  soul,  having  the  essence  both  of 
entity  and  non-entity.  Beholding  the  lotus- eyed  deity  in  this  condition, 
sleeping,  I,  deluded  by  his  illusion,  touching  the  eternal  being  with 
my  hand,  impatient,  said  to  him,  '  Who  art  thou  ?  speak.'  Roused 

(i 

145  Lingadhishthanam  \  Comm. 

146  Vaimanike  surge  deva-sarge  \  Comm. 

147  "  The  different  accounts  agree  in  stating  that  when  the  three  lower  spheres  are 
consumed  by  fire,  Maharloka  is  deserted^by  its  tenants,  who  repair  to  the  next  sphere, 
or  Jana-loka.    Jana-loka,  according  to  the  Vayu,  is  the  residence  of  the  rishis  and 
demigods  during  the  night  of  Brahma,"  etc. — Wilson,  Vishnu  Puiana,  p.  213,  note; 
see  also  the  same  work,  p.  632,  and  note  7  (=pp-  22/  ff.,  vol.  ii.,  and  pp.  192  ff.,  vol. 
T.  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.). 

148  Lit.  "  the  end  of  me,  Brahma,  having  come  to  equality  without  dominion." 

149  The  reading  of  the  Bombay  text  is  herepuMe;  but  some  such  word  aa  s'ete, 
"sleeps,"  seems  to  be. required  by  the  sense. 

150  Ealanabha  is  the  term  in  the  original.     Perhaps  the  proper  reading  may  be 
Kalanatha,  "the  lord  of  time,"  which  occurs  in  the  Mahabharata,  S'antip.  10368. 
See  Bohtlingk  and  Roth  s.v. 


DISPTJTE  BETWEEN  THE  TWO  GODS.  389 

by  the  strong  and  violent  stroke  of  my  hand  from  his  snaky  couch, 
sitting  for  a  moment,  self-restrained,  ithe  deity  whose  eyes  are  pure  as 
the  lotus  looked  up  heavy  nvith  drpwsiness.  The  divine  Hari,  invested 
by  lustre,  seeing  me  standing  before^him,  rising  up,  said  to  me,  sweetly 
smiling  at  the  same  time,  '  "Welcome,  ,welcome,  my  child,  the  glorious 
Pitamaha.'  Hearing  these"  words  of  his,  accompanied  by  a  smile,  0 
deities,  my  illwill  Ijeing  excited  by  passion  (rajas],  I  said  to  Janardana 
(Vishnu) :  '  Dost  thou,'  0  sinless  god,  like  a  teacher  speaking  to  his 
pupil,  smiling  inwardly,  address  the  words  *child,  child,'  to  me  [who 
am]  the  cause  of  creation  and  destruction,  the  undisputed  maker  of  the 
worlds,  and  the  mover  of  Prakriti  (nature),  the  eternal,  unborn, 
Vishnu,151  Virinchi,  the  source  and  soul  of  all  things,  the  disposer, 
the  upholder,  the  lotus-eyed?  Why  dost  thou  foolishly  address  me 
thus?  Tell  me  quickly.'  He  said  to  me,  'Perceive  that  I  am  the 
maker,  the  preserver,  the  destroyer  of  the  worlds ;  thou  hast  issued 
from  my  imperishable  body.  Thou  hast  forgotten  the  lord  of  the 
world,  the  potent  Narayana,  Purusha,  the  supreme  Spirit,  invoked  of 
many,  lauded  of  many,  Vishnu,  the  undecaying,  the  lord,  the  source 
and  origin  of  the  universe.  In  this  there  is  no  fault  of  thine :  it 
arises  from  my  illusion.  Listen  to  the  truth,  0  four-faced  deity :  I 
am  the  lord  of  all  the  gods,  the  maker,  the  director,  the  destroyer; 
there  is  none  equal  to  me,  all-pervading.  I,  even  I,  0  Pitamaha,  am 
the  supreme  Brahma,  the  supreme  reality,  the  supreme  light,  the 
supreme  spirit,  all-pervading.  Whatever  thing,  movable  or  immov- 
able, has  been  seen  or  heard  of  in  this  world,  know,  0  four-faced 
deity,  that  it  is  all  formed  of  me.  By  me  of  old  has  been  created 
everything  that  is  (Sscernible,  consisting  of  the  twenty-four  principles; 
the  atoms,  which  in  their  ultimate  [and  most  subtile]  form  are  eternal, 
have  been  united ;  and  the  beings  sprung  from  my  wrath 1K  (Eudra), 
etc.,  have  been  created.  From  my*  complacence  thou  and  numerous 
(mundane)  eggs  have  been  formed  in  sport.  Intelligence  (buddhi)  has 
been  cveated  by  me  in  sport,*  and  then  from  it  three-fold  ahankara : 
from  it  the  five  tanmatras,  and  thence  mind,  with  the  bodily  senses,  as 
also4 ether  and  the  other  elements,  and  things  formed  of  the  elements.' 
As  soon  as  he  and  I  had  thus  spoken,  a  direful  and  terrific  fight  arose 

151  Brahma  here  assumes  this  character  as  belonging  to  himself. 

152  See  above,  pp.  230  and  266  f. 


390  APPARITION  OF  THE  LINGA. 

in  the  sea  of  universal  dissolution 153  between  us  twain,  whose  enmity 
had  been  roused  by  passion.  At1  this  time  there  appeared  before  us, 
to  stay  our  contention  and  admonish  us,  a  luminous  Linga,  encircled 
with  a  thousand  wreaths  of  flame,(  equal  to  a  hundred  final  mundane 
conflagrations,  incapable  of  diminution  or  increase,  without"beginning, 
middle,  or  end,  incomparable,  indescribable,"  undefinable,  the  source  of 
all  things.  Bewildered  by  its  thousand  flames,  the"  divine  Hari  said 
to  me  (Brahma)  who  was  myself  bewildered^  'Let  us  on  the  spot 
examine  the  source  of  [this]  fire.  I  will  go  down  the  unequalled 
pillar  of  fire,  and  thou  shouldst  quickly  proceed  strenuously  upwards.' 
Having  thus  spoken,  the  universal-formed  took  the  shape  of  a  boar, 
and  I  immediately  assumed  the  character  of  a  swan.154  Ever  since 
then  men  call  me  Hansa  (swan),  for  Hansa  is  Viraj.155  Whoever  shall 
call  me  'Hansa,  Hansa,'  shall  become  a  Hansa  (unimpassioned  saint). 
Having  become  purely  white,  and  fiery-eyed,  with  wings  on  every  side, 
rapid  as  thought  and  as  the  wind,  I  went  upwards.  Narayana  too, 
the  soul  of  all  things,  having  taken  the  dark  form  of  a  boar,  like  a 
heap  of  blue  collyrium,  ten  yojanas  broad  and  a  hundred  yojanas  long, 
bulky  as  mount  Meru,  with  white  sharp-pointed  tusks,  luminous  as 
the  sun  of  mundane  destruction,  long-snouted,  loud-grunting,  short- 
footed,  wondrous-limbed,  victorious,  strong,  incomparable,  proceeded 
downwards.  Speeding  thus  downwards  for  a  thousand  years,  Vishnu, 
the  boar,  beheld  no  base  at  all  of  the  Linga.  Eor  the  same  period  I 
went  rapidly  upwards,  0  destroyers  of  your  foes,  with  all  my  might, 
desirous  of  learning  its  end ;  but  I  descended  from  the  lapse  of  time, 
without  seeing  its  end ;  and  so,  too,  Ihe  divine  Vishnu  of  vast  bulk, 
the  source  of  all  the  gods,  worn  out,  with  affrighted  look,  ascended 
rapidly.  Meeting  with  me,  that  magnanimous  deity,  prostrating  him- 
self, bewildered  by  the  illusion  of  S'ambhu  (S'iva),  and  disturbed  in 
mind,  bowing,  along  with  me,  'oefore  Paramesvara  (S'iva),  behind, 
at  the  side,  and  in  front,  exclaimed,  '  What  is  this  ? '  Then,  0  chief 
of  the  gods,  there  arose  there  the  articulate  sound  "  om,  om,"  distinct 

and  protracted.     Considering  what  this  could  be,  he  then,  standing 

• 

153  See  the  commencement  of  this  extract. 

154  In  the  5th  and  6th  sectLns  of  the  S'iva-purana  "  it  is  explained  in  a  puerile 
and  inept  manner  why  Brahma  took  the  form  of  a  swan  and  Vishnu  of  a  hoar." 
— Aufrecht's  Catalogue  of  the  Bodl.  Sansk.  MSS.,  p.  63i. 

155  See  the  first  volume  of  thia  work,  pp.  9  and  36. 


FURTHER  QUOTATION  FROM  THE  LINGA  PURANA.         391 

with  me,  beheld  this  eternal  loud-resounding  [monosyllable]  upon  the 
right  side  of  the  Linga;  the  first  letter  a-kara,  after  it  u-kara,  ma- 
kara  in  the  centre,  and  Oca  as  the,,result  of  the  sounds.'  " 

This  is  followed  by  a  great  deal  oj'  mysticism  about  the  letters  of  the 
word  om  and  the  other  letters  of  the  alphabet,  etc.,  etc. 

The  eighteenth  section  'of  the  same  Purana  contains  a  hymn  ad- 
dressed by  Vishntf  to  Rudra,  which  recites  a  list  of  the  attributes  of 
the  latter  deity.  Makafleva^is  gratified  with  this  hymn,  and  tells 
Brahma  and  Vishnu  that  they  had  both  spiting  from  him,  offers  them 
a  boon,  and  touches  them  with  his  auspicious  hands.  Karayana  asks 
as  a  boon  that  they  may  both  entertain  an  eternal  devotion  for  him ; 
which  Mahadeva  as  a  matter  of  course  grants.  I  cite  the  verses  which 
follow,  in  the  original : 

Linga  Purana,  19,  8  ff. — Jdnulhyam  avariim  gatvd  punar  Ndrdyanah 
svayam  \  pfanipatya  cha  Visvesam  prdha  mandataram  vasi  \  "dvayor  deva- 
devesa  vivddam  ati-sobhanam  \  ihdgato  bhavdn  yasmdd  vivdda-samandya 
nau  "  |  tasya  tad-vachanam  srutvd  punah  prdha  Haro  Harim  \  pranipatya 
sthitam  murdhnd  kritdnjali-piitam  smayan  \  S'rl-mahddevah  uvdcha  \  pra- 
laya-sthiti-sargdndm  kartd  tvam  dharanipate  \  vatsa  vatsa  Hare  Vishno 
pdlayaitach  chardcharam  \  tridhd  Ihinno  hy  aham  Vishno  Brahma-  Vishnu- 
Bhavdkhyayd  \  sarga-rakshd-laya-gunair  nishkalah  paramesvarah  \  saminb- 
ham  tyaja  bho  Vishno  pdlayainam  Pitdmaham  \  pddme  bhavishyati  sutah 
kalpe  iava  Pitdmahah  \  tadd  drakshyasi  mdm  chaivafh  so  'pi  drakshyati 
padma-jah  \  evam  uktvd  sa  bhagavdms  tctfraivdntaradhiyata  \  tadd-pra- 
Ihriti  lokeshu  lingdrchd  supratishthitd  I  linga-vedl  Mahddevi  lingam 
sdkshdd  Mahesvarah  \  "  The  self-restraining  Narayana,  falling  on  his 
knees  on  the  ground,  and  having  made  obeisance  to  Visvesa  (S'iva), 
spoke  gently  thus :  '  Our  dispute,  0  god  of  gods,  has  proved  most  auspi- 
cious,156 since  thou  hast  come  hither  to  allay  it.'  Having  heard  these 
words,  Hara  (S'iva),  smiling,  again  Said  to  Hari  (Vishnu),  who  stood 
making  obeisance  with  his  hands  joined  :  'Thou,  lord  of  the  earth,  art 
the  author  of  the  creation,  c&ntinuance  and  destruction  [of  the  uni- 

•» 

15J*  I  cannot  render  this  sentence,  as  it  stands,  otherwise  than  by  taking  mi-adam 
for  a  neuter  nominative,  though  nouns  of  this  formation  are  masculine.  The  com- 
mentator explains  sobhanam  as  meaning  ubhayor  api  tama-balatvach  chhobhamanam, 
"brilliant  from  the  equal  powers  of  the  two  combatants";  and  supplies  samaya, 
"appease,  or  stop,  it"  (atah  samaya  ity  adhyaharaK). 


392         BIRTH  OF  RUDRA  ACCORDING  TO  THE  VISHNU  P. 

verse] :  my  child,  my  child,  Hari,  Vishnu,  preserve  all  this  moving  and 
stationary  world.  I,  the  undivided  supreme  lord,  am  divided  ia  a  three- 
fold manner  under  the  names  of  Brahma,  V;.shnu,  and  Bhava,  possess- 
ing the  attributes  of  creating,  preserving,  and  destroying.  Relinquish, 
Vishnu,  thy  delusion;  cherish  this  Pitamaha.  He  shall  b$  thy  son  in 
the  Padma  Kalpa.  Then  shalt  thou  behold  Jie,  and  he  also  who  sprang 
from  the  lotus  (Brahma)  shall  see  me.'  Having  thus  spoken,  the 
deity  vanished.  Thenceforward  the  worship  of  the  Linga  has  been 
inaugurated  in  the  worlds.  The  pedestal  of  the  Linga  is  Mahadevi 
(TJma),  and  the  Linga  is  the  visible  Mahesvara." 

The  reader  will  probably  be  of  opinion  that  this  story  does  not  throw 
much  light  on  the  real  origin  of  the  Linga-worship. 

The  Vishnu  Purana  (i.  7,  6  ff.)  does  not  assign  a  high  rank  to  Eudra; 
but  makes  him  the  offspring  of  Brahma  (as  the  Mahabharata,  quoted 
above,  p.  230  and  266  f.,  makes  him  of  Vishnu) :  Sanandanddayo  ye  cha 
purvam  srishtds  tu  Vedhasd  \  na  te  lokeshv  asajjanta  nirapekshdh prajdsu  te  \ 
sarve  te  chay.ata-jna.nah  vlta-rdgdh  vimatsardh  \  teshv  evafh  nirapeksheshu 
loka-srishtau  mahdtmanah  \  Brahmano  'bhud  mahdlsrodhas  trailokya- 
dahana-kshamah  \  tasya  krodhdt  samudbhuta-jvdld-mdld-vidlpitam  \  Brah- 
mano 'bhut  tadd  sanam  trailokyam  akhilam  mune  \  Ihrukuti-Jcutildt  tasya 
laldtdt  krodha-dlpitdt  \  samutpannas  tadd  Rudro  madhydhndrka-sama- 
<prabhah\  ardha-ndn-nara-vapuh  prachando  'ti-iarlravdn  \  "vilhajdtmd- 
nam"  ity  uktvd  tarn  Brahmd  'ntardadhe  punah  \  tathoHo  'sau  dvidhd 
strltvam  purushatvam  tathd  'k.arot  \  bibheda  purusJiatvam  cha  dasadhd 
chaikadhd  cha  sah  \  saumydsaumyais  tathd  idntdsdntaih  strltvam  cha  sa 
prabhuh  \  bibheda  bahudhd  devah  svarttpair  asitaih  sitaih  \  "  Sanandana 
and  the  others  who  were  before  created  by  Vedhtts  (Brahma)  had  no 
regard  for  the  worlds,  and  were  indifferent  about  offspring,  for  they  had 
all  attained  to  knowledge,  and  were  free  from  Jove  and  from  hatred.  As 
they  were  thus  indifferent  to  the  creation  of  worlds,  the  mighty  Brahma 
was  filled  with  fierce  anger,  sufficient  to  burn  up  the  three  worlds.  The 
three  worlds  were  illuminated  in  every  "part  by  the  wreaths  of  flame 
engendered  from  the  wrath  of  the  god.  From  his  fore'nead,  wrinkled 
with  a  frown  and  inflamed  with  anger,  Eudra  then  sprang  forth, 
glorious  as  the  noonday  sf,xn,  his  body  half  male  and  half  female,  fierce, 
and  huge  in  bulk.  Brahma  disappeared  after  saying  to  him,  '  Divide 
thyself.'  Being  thus  addressed,  he  severed  himself  into  twain,  into 


EESTJLTS  OF  THE  PRECEDING  SECTIONS.  393 

a  male  and  a  female  body.  The  god  then  divided  his  male  form  into 
eleven  portions,  gentle  and  ungentte;  and  in  like  manner  his  female 
body  into  many  forms'bfock  and,  white."  157 

In  the  same  way  the  Harivan^a  says  (v.  43) :    Tato  'srijat  punar 
Brahma  Rudram  roshdtma-sambhavcfn  \  "Then  Brahma  next  created 
lludra,  the  offspring  of  his  anger." 
« 

SECT.  Yll. — Results  of  the  preceding  Sections. 

•  » 

The  various  texts  quoted  in  Sections  i.-iv.  (pp.  299-355)  from  the 
Kig-,  the  Yajur-,  and  Atharva-vedas,  and  from  the  Brahmanas,  relative 
to  lludra,  compose  the  principal  materials  which  we  possess  for  forming 
an  idea  of  the  characteristics  ascribed  to  that  deity  in  the  more  ancient 
portions  of  Indian  literature  anterior  to  the  composition  of  the  Epic 
poems  and  Puranas.  The  Upanishads  from  which  I  have  derived  the 
mystical  extracts  given  in  the  fifth  section  (pp.  355  ff.)  are  of  uncertain 
date,  and  their  contents  throw  but  little  light  on  the  development  of 
the  worship  of  Eudra.  The  extracts  which  I  have  given  from  the 
Ramayana  and  Hahabharata  in  chapter  ii.  (pp.  176  f.,  184  ff.,  223-226, 
230  ff.,  240  f.,  263,  266  ff.,  278  ff.,  and  283-291),  and  in  the  last  sec- 
tion, while  they  contain  some  of  the  earliest  descriptions  of  which  5*am 
aware,  of  Eudra  in  the  new,  and  very  different,  aspect  in  which  he  has 
been  conceived  in  the  later  ages  of  Hindu  mythology,  since  he  has  come 
to  be  identified  with  S'iva  or  Mahadeva,  are  yet  unfitted  to  elucidate 
the  process  by  which  he  became  elevated  to  the  highest  rank  in  the 
Indian  pantheon.  I  shall,  however,  draw  from  these  texts  a  summary 
of  the  attributes*  which  they  respectively  assign  to  Eudra,  which 
will  exhibit  the  modifications  which  the  conception  of  this  deity 

* 

57  See  Professor  Wilson's  notes  on  thi^  passage,  V.  P.,  2nd  ed.,  vol.  i.,  p.  103,  ff. 
The  S'untiparvan  of  the  Mahabharata  also  speaks  (TV.  13723  ff.)  of  Mahadeva,  the 
three-eyed,  and  the  great  devotee,  as  having  sprung  from  the  forehead  of  Brahma, 
of  his^coming  to  visit  his  father*  on  the  mountain  Vaijayanta,  and  of  his  saluting 
him  respectfully,  falling  at  his  feet,  and  being  raised  up  by  him  with  his  left  hand. 
Brahma  then  proceeds  to  unfold  to  him  the  nature  of  Rurusha.  (At ha  tatrasatas 
tajtya  Chaturvaktrasya  dhlmatah  \  lalata-prabhavah  putrah  S'ivah  agad  yadrickhaya  \ 
akasena  mahayogl  pura  trinayanah  prabhuh  \  tataJ^  Jehad  nipapataiu  dharantdhara- 
murdhani  \  agratas  chabhavat  prlto  vavande  chupi  padayoh  \  tampadayor  nipatitam 
drishtva  savyena  panina  \  utthapayamasa  tada  prabhur  eJcah  Prajapatih  \  uvacha 
chainam  bhagavams  chirasyagatam  atmajam.) 


394  REMARKS  OF  PROFESSOR  H.  H.  WILSON 

undergoes  in  the  later,  as  compared  with  the  earlier,  passages.  To  my 
own  remarks  on  this  subject,  however,  I  shall  prefix  some  observations 
by  Professors  H.  H.  Wilson,  Weber,  and  Whitney,  on  the  character  of 
the  Vedic  Eudra. 

The  following  remarks  by  Professor  Wilson  are  extracted1  from  the 
Introductions  to  the  first  and  second  volumes'  of  his  translation  of  the 
Big-veda  (published,  vol.  i.,  1st  ed.,  in  1850,  and  2nd  fed.  in  1866;  and 
vol.  ii.  in  1854) :  '  ' 

^  "  We  have  a  Eudra,  who,  in  after-times,  is  identified  with  S'iva,  but 
who,  even  in  the  Puranas,  is  of  very  doubtful  origin  and  identification  ; 
whilst  in  the  Veda  he  is  described  as  the  father  of  the  winds,  and  is 
evidently  a  form  of  either  Agni  or  Indra.  The  epithet  Icaparddin 
which  is  applied  to  him  appears,  indeed,  to  have  some  relation  to  a 
characteristic  attribute  of  S'iva, — the  wearing  of  his  hair  in  a  peculiar 
braid;  but  the  term  has  probably  in  the  Yeda  a  very  different" significa- 
tion— one  now  forgotten, — although  it  may  have  suggested  in  after- 
time  the  appearance  of  S'iva  in  such  a  head-dress,  as  identified  with 
Agni;  for  instance,  Jcaparddin  may  intimate  his  head  being  surrounded 
by  radiating  flame,  or  the  word  may  be  an  interpolation ;  at  any  rate, 
no  other  epithet  applicable  to  S'iva  occurs,  and  there  is  not  the  slightest 
allusion  to  the  form  in  which,  for  the  last  ten  centuries  at  least,  he 
seems  to  have  been  almost  exclusively  worshipped  in  India,  that  of  the 
Linga  or  Phallus  :  neither  is  there  the  slightest  hint  of  another  impor- 
tant feature  of  later  Hinduism,^— the  Trimurtti,  or  Tri-une  combination 
of  Brahma,  Vishnu,  and  S'iva,  as  typified  by  the  mystical  syllable  om, 
although,  according  to  high  authority"  on  the  religions  of  antiquity, 
the  Trimurtti  was  the  first  element  in  the  faith  of  tlte  Hindus,  and  the 
second  was  the  Ling  am"  158 — (vol.  i.,  pp.  xxvi.,  xxvii.) 

"  Of  Eudra  also,  the  character  is  equivocal ;  -but  it  may  be  doubted 
if  it  partakes  in  any  remarkable  dfegree  of  that  fierceness  and  wrath 
which  belong  to  the  Eudra  of  a  later  date ;  he  is  termed,  it  is  true,  the 
slayer  of  heroes,  but  so  is  Indra :  the  effects  of  his  anger  upon  men  and 
animals  are  deprecated ;  but  he  is  also  appealed  to  as  wise  and  bounti- 
ful, the  author  of  fertility  and  giver  of  happiness,  and  his  peculiar 
characteristics  are  evident*y  his  presiding  over  medicinal  plants  and 
removal  of  disease,  attributes  of  a  beneficent,  not  of  a  malignant  and 

158  Creuzer,  Eeligions  de  Vartiquite,  book  i.,  chap,  i.,  p.  HO. 


ON  THE  CHARACTER  OF  RUDRA.  395 

irascible  deity.  As  above  remarked,  the  Maruts,  or  winds,  are  termed 
his  sons ; 159  and  this  relationship  worjd  assimilate  him  to  Indra.  There 
is  also  a  class  of  inferior  deities,  termed  Eudras,  who  in  one  passage  are 
worshippers  of  Agni,  and  in  anothgr  are  followers  of  Indra ;  being  the 
same  as  the  Maruts.  So  far,  therefore,  Eudra  might  be  identified  with 
Indra ;  but  we  have  the  name  applied  unequivocally  to  Agni  in  a  hymn 
exclusively  dedicated  to  that  divinity  (E.  V.  i.  27,  10).  The  term 
denotes,  according  to  'She  Scholiast,  the  'terrible  Agni';  but  there  is  no 
warrant  for  this  in  the  text,  and  we  may*  be  content,  therefore,  with 
tKe  latter,  to  regard  Eudra  as  a  form  or  denomination  of  fire." — (Hid. 
pp.  xxxvii.  f.) 

"  Eudra  is  described,  as  in  the  first  book,  by  rather  incompatible 
qualities,  as  both  fierce  and  beneficent;  but  his  specific  province  is  here 
also  the  tutelarship  of  medicinal  plants,  and  administration  of  medicine, 
and  he  is  designated  as  a  physician  of  physicians  (E.  V.  ii.  33,  4). 
With  respect  also  to  his  presiding  over  medicinal  plants,  there  occurs  a 
passage  worthy  of  note,  as  among  the  herbs  are  those,  it  is  said,  which 
Manu  selected,  alluding,  most  probably,  to  the  seeds  of  the  plants  which 
Manu,  according  to  the  legend  as  related  in  the  Hahabharata,  took 
with  him  into  his  vessel  at  the  time  of  the  deluge.  There  are  more 
particulars  of  the  person  of  Eudra  than  usual.  He  is  sometimes  saidto 
be  brown  or  tawny,  but  he  is  also  said  to  be  white-complexioned  (E.V. 
ii.  33,  8) ;  he  is  soft-bellied  and  handsome-chinned ;  he  is  armed  with 
a  bow  and  arrows,  and  brilliant  with  »golden  ornaments.  He  is  also 
called  the  father  of  the  Maruts.  There  is  little,  however,  in  all  this, 
except  his  fierceness,  to  identify  him  with  the  Eudra  of  the  Puranas." 
— (vol.  ii.,  pp.  ix."*f.)  , 

The  following  interesting  and  ingenious  speculations  of  Professor 
Weber  are  translated  from  his  Indische  Studien,  ii.,  19-22  (published 
in  1853): 

"In  the  beginning  of  the  ninth  book  of  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana(see 
above;  p.  347  f.),  we  obtain  U  complete  explanation  of  the  S'atarudriya 
(see  above,  p.  322  if.).  When  the  preparation  of  the  consecrated  place  for 
kij&LLing  the  fire  is  completed  (chity-iipadhana-parisamapty-anantaryam, 
Say  ana},  and  the  fire  has  been  kindled,  »nd  blazes  up  (dlpyamuno 

159  See  the  Section  on  the  Maruts  in  the  fifth  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  147  ff. 


396  REMARKS  OP  PROFESSOR  WEBER  ON  THE 

'ttshthat],  the  gods  (i.e.  the  Brahmans  16°)  are  terrified  by  it,  yad  vai  no 
'yam  no,  Jiimsyud  iti  ('lest  it  shoul/l  destroy  us')  :  and  with  the  view  of 
appeasing  this  [howling,  hungry]  flame,  whick  is  conceived  of  as  in  the 
form  of  Rudra,  i.e.  to  consecrate  and  propitiate  the  fire,  they  offer  their 
adoration  to  Rudra,  and  to  his  supposed  troop  of  associates?  i.e.  to  all 
conceivable  shapes  of  terror,  and  by  this  means  render  them  favourable, 
and  avert  all  their  malevolent  influences.  Pence  tne  Brahmana  ex- 
plains sata-rudriya  by  sdnta-rudriya  (as  gata  com os  from  the  root  gam] ; 
a  double  sense,  vhich  may  perhaps  have  actually  been,  though  in- 
distinctly, contemplated,  when  the  name  was  first  given.161  In  this 
application  of  Rudra  as  the  god  of  fire  (independently  of  the  other  contents 
of  the  S'atarudriya),  we  may  find  an  indication  of  the  time  when  it  was 
composed.  Though  Rudra  originally  signifies  generally  the  howler, 
and  consequently  can  stand  as  well  for  an  epithet  of  the  crackling  fire 
as  of  the  raging  storm,  yet  in  the  earliest  period  the  word  had  been 
more  specially  used  to  denote  the  latter  signification,  and  is  therefore 
frequently  used  in  the  Rig-veda  in  the  plural  as  an  epithet  of- the 
Maruts.  The  unbridled  fury  (manyu)  of  the  storm,  its  roaring,  its 
tearing  up  (aufwuhlen)  of  heaven  and  earth,162  must  have  produced  a 
strong  and  overpowering  effect  upon  the  Arian  Indians  in  the  high 
mountain  valleys  (perhaps  of  Kashmir)  in  which  we  must  conceive  them 
to  have  lived  at  that  early  period;  and  it  was  thus  in  the  natural 
course  of  things  that  they  should  connect  everything  terrible  and  horri- 
ble with  the  idea  of  the  god  ofrstorms,  and  regard  him  as  the  lord,  and 
the  cause,  of  every  evil : 163  numberless,  indeed,  were  these  aerial  hosts, 
black,  pierced  only  by  the  quivering  gleams  of  the  lightning,  diffusing 
everywhere  shuddering  and  horror. 

"It  is  true  that  Rudra  'is  also  appealed  to  as  wise  and  bountiful,  the 

leo  ii  jn  the  Brahmanas  the  thoughts  of  men  are  very  frequently  put  into  the 
mouths  of  the  gods.  For  instance,  when  the  gods  go  to  Prajapati,  and  request  him 
to  solve  any  difficulty,  this  is  merely  a  transcendental  expression  for  the  fact  of  a  few 
wise  men  applying  for  instruction  to  one  still  wise-  than  themselves."  t 

HI  "The  Arshadhyaya  of  the  Charayawya  School  of  the  Kathaka  also  (ii.  17)  says: 
S'atarudriyam  devanam  ftudra-samanan."  'The  S'atarudriya  is  an  appeasing  of 
Rudra  by  the  gods.' 

162  «  Hence  in  the  R.V.  i.  11^4,  5,  he  is  also  called  varaha,  "boar,"  as  the  storm- 
clouds  too  are  elsewhere  conceived  under  the  same  image  "  (Ind.  Stud.  i.  272,  note). 

163  "In  R.V.  i.  114;  ii.  33.    Hence,  too,  seven  verses  from  these  hymns  are  incor- 
porated in  the  S'atarudriya." 


S'ATARTJDRIYA  AND  ON  THE  IDEA  OF  RUDRA.  397 

author  of  fertility,  and  giver  of  happiness;'164  but  it  is  only  indirectly 
that  he  is  so  addressed,  and  merely  because  he  departs,  and  directs  his 
destroying  arrows  towards  some  other  quarter,  against  the  enemies  of 
the  suppliant,  and  leaves  the  latter  himself  in  peace ;  the  worshipper 
flatters  him  with  fair  words,  as  if  he  were  purely  benevolent,  to  pacify 
his  anger,  and  to  render*  him  gracious  (siva] ;  and  he  only  appears 
directly  beneficent  in  so  far  as  he  chases  away  clouds  and  vapours, 
purifies  and  clears  the.atonosphere ;  in  reference  to  this  he  is  called  a 
physician,  and  moreover  acquainted  with  healing  herbs :  but  he  carries 
also  diseases  and  contagions  themselves  as  aurows  in  his  quiver,  and 
slays  therewith  men  and  cattle. 

"In  the  crackling  flame  of  the  fire,  now,  men  thought  that  they 
heard  again  the  wrathful  voice  of  the  storm,  that  in  the  consuming 
fierceness  of  the  former,  they  perceived  once  more  the  destructive  fury 
of  the  latter.  In  this  way  we  have  to  explain  how  it  happened  that 
both  deities  became  gradually  identified,  and  lent  their  respective  epi- 
thets to  one  another,  particularly  as  at  the  same  time  the  storm  is,  in 
bad  weather,  accompanied  with  gleaming  and  fiery  lightnings.  This 
identification  seems  to  have  extended  not  merely  to  Agni  and  Rudra 
themselves,  but  also  to  the  Rudras,  in  so  far  as  the  latter,  from  being 
the  raging  and  flaming  companions  of  the  storm,  appear  to  have  become 
the  representatives  of  all  sorts  of  terrific  shapes  in  general,  until  in  the 
epic  period  they  retired  completely  into  the  background,  while  their 
ancient  master,  Rudra,  in  his  combination  with  Agni,  became  con- 
tinually more  firmly  condensed  as  the  god  of  rage  and  destruction,  and 
a  new  class  of  beings  took  the  place  of  the  Rudras  as  attendants  upon 
him  (in  his  capacity  of  S'iva). 

"At  the  period  when  the  Rudra-book  (the  S'atarudriya)  was  com- 
posed, the  blending  of  the  two  destructive  deities  (Storm  and  Fire)  had 
evidently  taken  place ;  and  the  epithets  which  are  there  assigned  to 
Rudra  lead  us  back  partly  to  himself,  and  partly  to  Agni.  The  epithets 
'  dweller  in  the  mountains  \(girisa,  girisaya,  girisanta,  giritra),  and 
those  of  Jcap&rdin,  vyupta-kesa,  ugra,  and  bhlma,  Ihishaj  and  Siva, 
san$hu  and  sanlcara,  belong  to  the  Storm,  while  on  the  other  hand 
those  of  riila-gnva  (=nilakantha,  spoken  of  smoke),  sitikantha,  hiranya- 
lahu  (of  flame),  vilohita,  sahasrahha  (of  sparks),  pa&upati  (of  sacrificial 

164  "Wilson,  Introd.  to  Trans,  of  R.V.,  vol.  i.,  quoted  above,  p.  394. 


398  REMARKS  OF  PROFESSOR  WHITNEY 

victims),  sarva  and  bhava,  etc.,  belong  to  Fire.  Now  almost  all  these 
epithets  165  are  technical  epithets  and  characteristics  of  the  epic  S'iva, 
and  when  applied  to  him  are  partially  unintelligible,  and  become 
explicable  only  after  they  have  been  distinguished  according  to  the 
two  separate  elements  to  who'se  combination  this  god  owes  his  origin.166 
But  as  in  the  Rudra-book  Rudra  nowhere  appears  as  Isa  or  Hahadeva, 
and  no  character  is  assigned  to  him  analogous  to  that  .of  the  epic  S'iva; 
and  as  the  word  siva  is  applied  to  him  simplj  a,s  an  epithet  (with  its 
comparative  sivatara  annexed)  ;  the  book  in  question  must  in  any  case 
be  held  to  date  from  an  earlier  epoch  of  the  Indian  religion,  whilst  its 
elevation  to  the  rank  of  an  "Upanishad  may  only  have  taken  place  in  the 
epic  period,  and  have  been  occasioned  by  the  special  worship  of  S'iva.'  ' 

The  following  remarks  of  Professor  "Whitney  on  the  same  subject  are 
taken  from  the  Journal  of  the  American  Oriental  Society,  vol.  iii., 
p.  318  f.  (published  in  1853);  and  are  reprinted  in  the  volume  entitled 
"Oriental  and  Linguistic  Studies,"  published  by  their  author  in  1873: 

"To  the  second  domain,  the  atmosphere,  belong  the  various  divini- 
ties of  the  wind  and  storm.  God  of  the  breeze,  the  gentler  motion 
of  the  air,  is  Vayu  (from  the  root  vd,  'blow').  He  drives  a  thousand 
steeds  ;  his  breath  chases  away  the  demons  ;  he  comes  in  the  earliest 
mWning,  as  the  first  breath  of  air  that  stirs  itself  at  daybreak,  to  drink 
the  soma,  and  the  Auroras  weave  for  him  shining  garments.  The 
storm-  winds  are  a  troop,  the  Maruts  or  Rudras:  the  two  names  are 
indifferently  used,  but  the  former  is  much  the  more  usual  (the  ety- 
mology of  neither  is  fully  established).  They  drive  spotted  stags, 
wear  shining  armour,  and  carry  spears  in  their  hands  ;  no  one  knows 
whence  they  come  nor  whither  they  go  ;  their  voice  is  heard  aloud  as 
they  come  rushing  on;  the  earth  trembles  and  the  mountains  shake 
before  them.  They  belong  in  Indra's  train  ;  are  his  almost  constant 
allies  and  companions.  They  are.  called  the  sons  of  Rudra,  who  is 
conceived  of  as  peculiar  god  of  the  tempest.  As  their  father  he  is 
very  often  mentioned  ;  as  a  divinity  with  independent  attributes  he  is 
of  much  rarer  occurrence  ;  hymns  addressed  to  him  alorft;  are  but  few. 


Of  many  other  epithets  found  elsewhere  :  thus  S'iva  owes  his  epiqhet 
Tryambaka,  and  his  wife  Ambiku,  to  Rudra  ;  and,  on  the  other  hand,  his  epithet 
Tripura,  and  his  wife  Kali,  KaritlT,  to  Agni,"  etc. 

166  «  Hence  he  is  also  called  Kttlagnirudra,  as  in  the  Puranas,  and  in  the  Kalagni- 
rudra  Upanishad." 


ON  THE  CHARACTER  OP  RUDRA.          399 

He  is,  as  might  be  expected,  a  terrible  god :  he  carries  a  great  bow 
from  which  he  hurls  a  sharp  missile  at  the  earth;  he  is  called  the 
'ruler  of  men,'  kshayadiyra ; 167  his  wrath  is  deprecated,  and  he  is  be- 
sought not  to  harm  his  worshipper ;  if  not  in  the  Eik,  at  least  in  the 
Atharvan.and  Brahman  as,  he  is  styled  'l&d  of  the  animals,'  as  the  un- 
housed beasts  of  the  field  are*  especially  at  the  mercy  of  the  pitiless 
storm.  At  the  lame  time,  to  propitiate  him,' he  is  addressed  as  master 
of  a  thousand  remedies,*  best  of  physicians,  protector  from  harm  :  this 
may  have  its  ground,  too,  partly  in  the  beaeficial  effects  of  the  tempest 
in  freshening  the  atmosphere  of  that  sultry  clime.  Eudra's  chief  in- 
terest consists  in  the  circumstance  that  he  forms  the  point  of  connexion 
between  the  Yedic  religion  and  the  later  Civa-worship.  Civa  is  a  god 
unknown  to  the  Vedas  :  his  name  is  a  word  of  not  unfrequent  occur- 
rence in  the  hymns,  but  means  simply  '  propitious  ' ;  not  even  in  the 
Atharvan»is  it  the  epithet  of  a  particular  divinity,  or  distinguished  by 
its  usage  from  any  other  adjective.  As  given  to  him  whose  title  it  has 
since  become,  it  seems  one  of  those  euphemisms  so  frequent  in  the 
Indian  religion,  applied  as  a  soothing  and  flattering  address  to  the  most 
terrible  god  in  the  whole  Pantheon.  The  precise  relation  between 
Civa  and  Eudra  is  not  yet  satisfactorily  traced  out.  The  introduction 
of  an  entirely  new  divinity  from  the  mountains  of  the  north  has  b5en 
supposed,  who  was  grafted  in  upon  the  ancient  religion  by  being  iden- 
tified with  Eudra;  or  again  a  blending  of  some  of  Agni's  attributes 
with  those  of  Eudra  to  originate  a  new, development.  Perhaps  neither 
of  these  may  be  necessary  ;  Civa  may  be  a  local  form  of  Eudra,  arisen 
under  the  influence  of  peculiar  climatic  relations  in  the  districts  from 
which  he  made  Ms  way  down  into  Hindostan  proper;  introduced 
among,  and  readily  accepted  by,  a  people  which,  as  the  Atharvan 
shows,  was  strongly  tending  toward  a  terrorism  in  its  religion." 

The  characters  ascribed  to  Eudya  in  the  hymns  of  the  E.  V.  are 
most  heterogeneous  and  frequently  indefinite.  I  shall  endeavour  to 
gather,  from  different  places  and  to  group  together  those  epithets  which 
have  most  affinity  to  each  other.  This  god  is  described  as  wise,  boun- 
tiful, and  powerful  (i.  43,  1 ;  i.  114,  4),  as  the  strongest  and  most 
glorious  of  beings  (ii.  33,  3),  as  lord  (lsdna\of  this  world,  possessed  of 

167  Compare  the  note  on  the  sense  of  this  word,  above,  p.  301  f. 


400        EPITHETS  AND  FUNCTIONS  OF  RUDRA  IN  THE  R.V. 

divine  power  (ii.  33,  9),  as  unsurpassed  in  might168  (ibid.  10),  as  the 
father  of  the  world,169  mighty,  exalted,  undecaying  (vi.  49, 10) ;  as  cogni- 
zant of  the  doings  of  men  and  gods  by  his  power  and  universal  dominion 
(vii.  46,  2) ;  as  putting  the  waters  in  motion  (x.  92,  5) ;  as  self-dependent 
(vii.  46,  1),  and  as  deriving  his  renown  from  himself  (i.  129,  3  ; 
x.  92,  9);  as  the  lord  of  heroes  (i.  114,  1,  3,  10;  x.  92,  9);  as  the  lord  of 
songs  and  sacrifices  (i.  43,  4),  the  fulfiller  of  sacrifices  (i.  114,  4); 
brilliant  as  the  sun,  and  as  gold  (i.  43,  5),  tawny-coloured  (this  epithet 
is  frequently  applied),  with  beautiful  chin  (ii.  33,  5),  f air-corn plexioned 
(ibid.  8),  multiform,  -fierce,  arrayed  in  golden  ornaments  (Hid.  9), 
youthful  (v.  60,  5),  terrible  as  a  wild  beast,  destructive  (ii.  23,  11), 
wearing  spirally-braided  hair  (i.  114,  1,  5) ;  and  as  the  celestial  boar 
(ibid.  5).  He  is  frequently  represented  as  the  father  of  the  Maruts  or 
Eudras  (i.  64,  2;  i.  85,  1;  i.  114,  6,  9;  ii.  33,  1;  ii.  34,  2;  v.  52, 
16;  v.  60,  5;  vi.  50,  4;  vi.  66,  3;  vii.  56,  1;  viii.  20,  IX).  He  is 
once  identified  with  Agni  (ii.  1,  6).  He  is  described  as  seated  on  a 
chariot  (ii.  33,  11),  as  wielding  the  thunderbolt  (ii.  33,  3),  as  armed 
with  a  bow  and  arrows  (ibid.  10,  14;  v.  42,  11;  x.  125,  6),  with  a 
strong  bow  and  fleet  arrows,  with  sharp  weapons  (vi.  74,  4;  vii.  46,  1 ; 
viii.  29,  5).  His  shafts  are  discharged  from  the  sky,  and  traverse  the 
eaHh  (vii.  46,  3).  He  is  called  the  slayer  of  men  (nri-ghne,  iv.  3,  6).170 
His  anger,  ill-will,  and  destructive  shafts  are  deprecated  (i.  114,  7,  8; 
ii.  33,  1,  11,  14;  vi.  28,  7;  vii.  46,  3,  4).  But  he  is  also  repre- 
sented as  benevolent  (i.  114,  9},  as  mild,  and  easily  invoked  (ii.  33,  5), 
beneficent  (ibid.  7),  gracious  (siva,  x.  92,  9),  as  the  cause  or  condition 
of  health  and  prosperity  to  man  and  beast  (i.  114,  1).  He  is  fre- 
quently described  as  the  possessor  of  healing  remedies,  and  is  once 
characterized  as  the  greatest  of  physicians  (i.  43,  4;  i.  114,  5;  ii.  33, 
2,  4,  7,  12,  13;  v.  42,  11;  vi.  74,  3 ; m  vii.  35,  6;  vii.  46,  3;  viii. 

i 

168  Compare  the  similar  epithets  applied  to  Vishnu  and  Indra  above :  see  pp.  97  f. 
and  generally  sections  i.  and  ii.,  chapter  ii.  above.     And  yet  in  R.V.  ii.  39,  9,  Rudra 
is  described  in  common  with  Indra,  Varuna,  Alitra,  and  Aryaman,  as  unable  to  resist 
the  will  of  Savitri.    See  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  163.          > 

169  Bhuvanasya  pitara::i.     Compare  Raghuvans'a  i.,  1,  where  Parames'vara  (S'iva) 
and  ParvatI  are  styled  the  "  parents  of  the  world"  (jagatah  pitarau}. 

170  In  vii.  56,  17,  it  is  similarly  said  of  the  Maruts,  are  goha  nriha  vadho  vo  astu: 
"  Far  be  your  kine-slaying,  man-slaying  bolt." 

171  In  this  passage  Soina  is  associated  with  Rudra  as  the  dispenser  of  remedies. 


REMAKES  ON  THE  CHARACTER  OF  RUDRA.       401 

29,  5).  He  is  supplicated  for  blessings  (i.  114,  1,  2;  ii.  33,  6),  and 
represented  as  averting  the  anger  of  the  gods  (i.  114,  4;  ii.  33,  7). 
In  R.  Y.  vi.  74,  1  ff. ,  hp  is  connected  with  Soma  in  the  dual,  and 
entreated  along  with  the  latter  to  bestow  good  and  avert  evil. 

On  a  review  of  these*  passages,  and  the  hymns  from  which  they  are 
drawn,  it  appears  that  in  most  places  Rudra  has  no  very  clearly  defined 
function  (such,  for, instance,  as  is  ascribed  to  In'dra  and  Agni,  or  even  to 
Yishnu)  as  an  agent  in  producing,  or  a  representative  of,  the  great  pheno- 
mena of  the  physical  world.    It  would  be  difficult  to  make  out  from  the 
larger  portion  of  the  texts  which  I  have  cited  to  what  region  of  the  uni- 
verse the  activity  of  this  god  should  be  referred.    It  is  true  that  he  is  re- 
peatedly declared  to  be  the  father  of  the  Maruts  or  Rudras  (the  winds  or 
storms);  and  from  this  relation  we  might  anticipate  that  he  would  be  de- 
scribed as,  still  more  eminently  than  they,  the  generator  of  tempests,  and 
chaser  of  olouds.     There  are,  however,  few,  if  any,  distinct  traces  of 
any  such  agency  being  ascribed  to  him.     The  numerous  vague  epithets 
which  are  constantly  applied  to  him  would  not  suffice  to  fix  the  par- 
ticular sphere  of  his  operation,  or  even  to  define  his  personality,  as  most 
of  them  are  equally  applied  to  other  deities.     This  is  the  case  with  the 
terms  "fierce,"  "tawny-coloured,"  "with  beautiful  chin  ";  and  even 
the  word  kapardin  ("with  spirally-braided  hair"),  which  at  a  later 
period  became  a  common,  if  not  distinctive,  epithet  of  Mahadeva,  is  in 
the  R.Y.  applied  also  to  Pushan  (see  above,  p.  301,  note  7).     While, 
however,  the  cosmical  function  of  Rud/a  is  thus  but  obscurely  indi- 
cated, he  is  described  as  possessing  other  marked  an<?  peculiar  charac- 
teristics.    It  is,  however,  principally  in  his  relation  to  the  good  and 
evil  which  befall  t^e  persons  and  property  of  men  that  he  is  depicted. 
And  here  there  can  be  little  doubt  that,  though  he  is  frequently  suppli- 
cated to  bestow  prosperity,  and  though  he  is  constantly  addressed  as 
the  possessor  of  healing  remedies,  h«  is  principally  regarded  as  a  male- 
volent deity,  whose  destructive  shafts,  the  source  of  disease  and  death 
to  man  and  beast,  the  w'orsVipper  strives  by  his  entreaties  to  avert. 
If  this  view  toe  correct,  the  remedies  of  which  Rudra  is  the  dispenser 
may,  be  considered  as  signifying  little  more  than  the  cessation  of  his 
destroying  agency  (as  Professor  "Weber  remarks,  see  above,  p.  397), 
and  the  consequent  restoration  to  health  and  vigour  of  those  victims 

of  his  ill-will  who  had  been  in  danger  of  perishing.     It  may  appear 

* 
VOL.  iv.  26 


402  RTJDRA  ACCORDING  TO  THE  TAJURVEDA, 

strange  that  opposite  functions  should  thus  he  assigned  to  the  same 
god :  but  evil  and  good,  sickness  and  health,  death  and  life,  are 
naturally  associated  as  contraries,  the  presence  of  the  one  implying  the 
absence  of  the  other,  and  vice  versa ;  and  in  later  times  Mahadeva  is  in 
a  somewhat  similar  manner  regarded  as  the  generator  as  well  as  the 
destroyer.  We  may  add  to  this  that,  while  it  is  natural  to  deprecate 
the  wrath  of  a  deity  supposed  to  be  the  destroyer,  the  suppliant  may 
fear  to  provoke  his  displeasure,  and  to  awaken  his  jealousy,  by  calling 
on  any  other  deity  to  provide  a  remedy.  "When  the  destructive  god  has 
been  induced  to  relent,  to  withdraw  his  visitation,  or  remove  its  effects, 
it  is  natural  for  his  worshippers  to  represent  him  as  gracious  and 
benevolent,  as  we  see  done  in  some  of  the  hymns  to  Eudra. 

From  the  above  description,  however,  it  will  be  apparent  that  the 
elder  Rudra,  though  different  in  many  respects  from  the  later  Mahadeva, 
is  yet,  like  him,  a  terrible  and  destructive  deity;  while,  on  the  other 
hand,  the  ancient  Yishnu,  like  the  modern  god  of  the  same  name,  is 
represented  to  us  as  a  preserver,  of  a  benignant,  or,  at  least,  of  an  in- 
nocuous, character  (R.Y.  i.  22,  18;  i.  155,  4;  i.  186,  10;  viii.  25,  12). 

In  the  Yajur-veda  we  find  the  same  characteristics  assigned  to  Rudra 
as  in  the  Rig-veda.  Thus  both  a  healing  virtue  (iii.  59 ;  xvi.  5,  49) 
aiad  a  destructive  efficacy  are  ascribed  to  him,  the  latter  being  depicted 
in  the  liveliest  colours,  and  deprecated  in  every  variety  of  expression. 
Thus  he  is  represented  (iii.  61 ;  xvi.  1,  and  elsewhere)  as  carrying  a 
bow  and  arrows,  and  is  earnestly  supplicated  (xvi.  9  ff.,  51  ff.)  to  avert 
his  shafts  from»the  worshipper.  Many  of  the  epithets  which  are 
applied  to  him  in  the  Rig-veda  occur tagain  here,  such  "as  "brown"  or 
"tawny"  (xvi.  6),  the  god  "with  spirally-braided  hair"  (ibid.  10),  the 
"fierce"  (ibid.  40),  the  "bountiful,"  the  "gracious"  (51),  etc.;  while 
a  multitude  of  new  appellations  are  heaped  upon  him  (and  his  attendants), 
such  as  "blue-necked,"  "thousand-eyed"  (ilid.l\  "thousand-quivered" 
(13),  "clad  in  a  skin"  (iii.  61;  xvi.  51),  "the  dweller  in  the 
mountains"  (xvi.  2,  3,  4),  and  others  far. too  numerous  to  repeat  (xvi. 
17-46).  The  imagination  of  the  rishi  runs  riot  in  tin  invention  of 
these  epithets,  which  are  of  the  most  heterogeneous  description.  Some 

of  the  characteristics  here  attributed  to  Rudra  are  of  a  disgraceful 

v 

nature,  as  where  he  is  styled  the  "lord  of  thieves,  the  robber,  the 
cheater,  the  deceiver,  the  lord  of  pilferers  and  robbers,"  etc.  (vv.  20, 


THE  ATHARVAVEDA,  AXD  THE  S'ATAPATHA  BRAHMANA.     403 

21).  Several  new  names  are  ascribed  to  Eudra  in  this  Yeda,  as  Bhava, 
S'arva,  Pasupc,ti,  etc.,  etc.  (vv.  18,  28)^172  Altogether  an  approximation  is 
discernible  in  the  epithet?,  which  occur  in  the  S'atarudriya  to  the  fierce, 
terrific,  impure,  and  repulsive  character  of  the  later  Mahadeva.  Ambika 

is  mentioned  for  the  first  time  in  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita  (iii.  5),  and 

) 

is  described  not  as  the  wife,  but  as  the  sister  of  Rudra. 

In  the  Atharv£*-veda  also  reference  is  made  both  to  the  therapeutic 
character  of  Eudra  aud'to  the  destructive  arrows  and  lightnings  of 
Bhava  and  S'arva  (ii.  27,  6;  vi.  93,  1;  x.»i.  23;  xi.  2,  1,  12,  etc.). 
Eudra  is  identified  with  Agni  (vii.  87,  1) ;  and  again  with  Savitri 
(xiii.  4,  4).  On  the  other  hand,  Bhava  and  S'arva,  and  again  Bhava 
and  Eudra,  are  spoken  of  in  the  dual  (viii.  2,  7 ;  x.  i.  23 ;  xi.  2,  1 ; 
xi.  2,  14,  16;  xi.  6,  9;  xii.  4,  17);  and  would  thus  appear  to  have 
been  regarded  by  the  rishi  as  distinct  gods.  S'arva  is  described  as  an 
archer,  Bhava  as  a  king  (vi.  93,  2) ;  and  they,  as  well  as  Eudra,  are 
said  to  have  poisons  and  consumption  at  their  command  (vi.  93,  2; 
xi.  2,  26).  In  A.  V.  xi.  2,  2,  30,  the  devouring  birds  and  dogs  of 
Eudra  are  alluded  to  (compare  Vaj.  Sanh.  xvi.  28).  In  another  verse 
Bhava  is  said  to  rule  over  the  sky  and  the  earth,  and  to  fill  the  vast 
atmosphere  (A.  V.  xi.  2,  27).173 

In  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  (i.  7,  3,  8)  S'arva,  Bhava,  Pasupati,  afid 
Rudra  are  said  to  be  all  names  of  Agni;  and  of  these  appellations  S'arva 
is  declared  to  be  in  use  among  the  people  of  the  east,  and  Bhava  among 
the  western  tribe  of  the  Bahikas.  Another  passage  (vi.  1,  3,  7  if.)  of  the 
same  Brahmana  describes  the  birth  of  a  boy  (kumdra,  a  word  applied  to 
Agni  in  the  Eig-veda,  v.  2,  1),  *to  whom  the  names  of  Eudra,  S'arva, 
Pasupati,  Ugra,  Asani,  Bhava,  Mahan-deva,  and  Isana  were  successively 

172  In  the  same  Veda,  xxxix.  8,  we  have  the  following  gods,  or  appellations  of  one 
god,  specified,  viz.,  Agni,  Asani,  Pasupati,  Bhava,  S'arva,  Is'ana,  Mahadeva,  TJgra- 
deva,  etc.    (Agniffi   hridayena  As'anim  hridayagrena  Pampatim  kritsna-hridayena 
Bhavam  yakna  \  S'arvam  matasnabht/am  Isanam  manyuna  Mahadevam  antahparsav- 
yena  Ugram  devamvanishthun&itijqdf). 

173  The  Nirukta"i.  15,  as  I  have  already  remarked,  p.  355,  note  98,  contains  the  first 
words  of  a  text  relating  to  Rudra  which  is  given  at  length  by  the  commentator  Durga, 
and  «  cited  and  translated  above.     After  ascribing  a  martial  character  to  Rudra 
in  the  first  line,  this  text  appears  to  assign  to  him,  in  the  second,  the  threefold 
function  of  universal  creator,  preserver,  and  destroyer*     As  it  is  partially  quoted  in 
the  Nirukta,  this  verse,  though  it  does  not  appear  whence  it  comes,  must,  unless 
interpolated,  be  of  considerable  antiquity. 


404  RUDRA  RISES  INTO  IMPORTANCE. 

given,  all  of  them,  according  to  the  writer,  representing  different  forms 
of  Agni.  In  the  somewhat  different  version  of  the  same  story  given  in 
the  S'ankhayana  Brahmana  (see  above,  pp.  843  ff.)  the  newly-born 
deity  is  not  identified  with  Agni.  But  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  in 
another  passage  (ix.  1,  1,»1  ff.)  referred  to  by"  Professor  Weber  (see 
above,  pp.  347  and  395  f.),  appears  again  clearly  to  make  this  identifica- 
tion. Finally,  traces  of  the  early  connexion  of  RucJra  with  Agni  are 
discoverable,  as  I  have  already  remarked  (p.  349),  in  the  legend  of  the 
birth  of  Karttikeya,  which  <JL  have  quoted  from  the  Mahabharata. 

Though,  however,  these  deities  may  have  at  one  time  come  to  be 
thus  identified,  the  distinctive  epithets  applied  to  Rudra  in  the  Rig- 
veda  appear  sufficiently  to  prove  that  he  was  generally  discriminated 
from  Agni  by  his  early  worshippers.  The  tendency  visible  both  in  the 
hymns  of  the  Yeda  and  in  the  Brahmanas  (see  above,  R.V.  ii.  1,  6, 
p.  306 ;  A.  V.  vii.  87,  1,  and  xiii.  4,  4,  pp.  333  and  338  ;*  S'atapatha 
Brahmana,  as  quoted  in  p.  341 ;  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  vi.  1,  1,  5,  p.  22) 
to  identify  the  different  deities  with  one  another  may  have  arisen 
from  a  vague  conception  of  the  unity  of  the  divine  principle  by  which 
all  these  several  divinities  were  supposed  to  be  diversely  animated. 

Between  the  texts  which  I  have  cited  from  the  Brahmanas  relative 
to^Rudra,  and  the  earliest  descriptions  of  the  same  deity  which  we  dis- 
cover in  the  Epic  poems,  a  wide  chasm  intervenes,  which,  as  far  as 
I  am  aware,  no  genuine  ancient  materials  exist  (for  the  Upanishads  I 
have  quoted  are  of  uncertain  date)  for  bridging  over.  The  Rudra  of 
the  Mahabharata  is  not  indeed  very  different  in  his  general  character 
from  the  god  of  the  same  name  who  fa  portrayed  in  the  S'atarudriya ; 
but  in  the  later  literature  his  importance  is  immeasely  increased,  his 
attributes  are  more  clearly  defined,  and  the  conceptions  entertained 
of  his  person  are  rendered  more  distinct  by  the  addition  of  various 
additional  features,  and  illustrated  by  numerous  legends.  Instead  of 
remaining  a  subordinate  deity,  as  he  was  in  the  Vedic  era,  Rudra 
has  thrown  Agni,  Yayu,  Surya,  Mitra,  and  Taruna  completely  into  the 
shade;  and  although  Indra  stjll  occupies  a  prominent  plSce  in  the  Epic 
legends,  he  has  sunk  down  into  a  subordinate  position,  and  is  cuite 
unable  to  compete  in  pojver  and  dignity  with  Rudra,  who,  together 
with  Vishnu,  now  engrosses  the  almost  exclusive  worship  of  the  Brah- 
manical  world.  Ambika,  who  was  subsequently  identified  with  the 


LINGA  MENTIONED  IN  THE  MAH1BHARATA.  405 

spouse  of  Rudra,  is  in  th^Yajasaneyi  Sanhita  (above,  p.  321)  spoken 
of  as  his  sister.  TJma  or  Parvati,  v«th  whom  he  was  unconnected  in 
the  Vedic  period,  and  of 'whom  ihe  earliest  mention,  as  far  as  I  know, 
occurs  in  the  Kena  Ujpanishad,  and  the  Taittiriya  Aranyaka,174  is  now 
his  acknowledged  consort.1"5  .^n  systematic  mythology  the  function  of 
destroyer  is  assigned  to  him,  as  that  of  creator  is  to  Brahma,  and  that 
.of  preserver  to  Vishnu;  but  he  is  also  worshipped  under  the  emblem 
of  the  "Linga"  as  tfie  great  generative  power. 

I  have  (above,  pp.  192  f.)  quoted  a  passage  from  the  Hahabharata 
in  which  the  Linga  is  dwelt  upon  at  length,  though  it  is  difficult  to 
say  to  what  age  this  passage  may  be  referable.  Comp.  also  the  epithet 
"mahasepha"  in  p.  191  f.,  which  points  to  the  same  idea. 

In  the  following  passage  of  the  same  book,  the  Linga  is  again  men- 
tioned in  verses  which  follow  the  last  of  those  quoted  above  in 
p.  197  if.*: 

Anusasana-parvan,  v.  7510. — Dahaty  urdhvam  sthito  yach  cha  prdndn 
nrinam  sthiras  cha  yat  \  sthira-lingas  cha  yan  nityam  tasmdt  Sthdnur 

iti  smritah  \ v.  7516.  Nityancha  Irahmacharyena  lingam  asya 

yadd  sthitam  \  mahayanty  asya  lokds  cha  priyam  hy  dad  mahdtmanah  \ 
vigraham  pujayed  yo  vai  linyam  vd  pi  mahdtmanah  \  linga-pujayitd  nit- 
yam  mahatlm  kriyam  asnute  \  rishayas  chdpi  devds  cha  gandharvdpsarasas 
tathd  |  lingam  evdrchayanti  sma  yat  tad  urdhvam  samdsthitam  \  ityddi  \ 
"And  since,  standing  aloft,  he  consumes  the  lives  of  men,  and  since  he 
is  fixed,  and  since  his  Linga  is  perpetually  fixed,  he  is  therefore  called 

Sthanu 7516.  And  when  h4s  Linga  remains  constantly  in  a 

state  of  chastity,  and  people  reverence  it,  this  is  agreeable  to  the 
great  [god].  Th*e  worshipper  of  the  Linga,  who  shall  adore  the 
image  (yigraha\  or  the  Linga,  of  the  great  [god],  enjoys  continually 

great  prosperity.     It  is  the  Linga,  raised  up,  which  the  rishis,  gods, 

i 

174  These  passages  will  be  quoted  in  the  next  section. 

175  It  appears  (see  Westeygaard's  Dissertation  on  the  Oldest  Period  of  Indian 
HistorJ,  p.  82,  note)  that  Panini*  (4,  1,  49)  gives  a  rule  whereby,  in  addition  to  the 
names  of  the  goddesses  Indram  and  VarunanT,  which  are  found  in  the  Rig-veda, 
the^  names  of  four  others  who  are  not  found  there,  and  vho  are  all  wives  of  S'iva 
(under  his  different  appellations  of  Bhava,  S'arva,  Rudra,  and  Mrida) — viz.  BhavunI 
S'arvSnl,  Rudram,  and  Mridani — may  be  formed.    ^The  rule  is  this :  Indra-  Varuna- 
Bhava-S'arva-Rudra-Mrida-himaranya-yava-yavana-matidacharyana>n  anuk ) .       It 
does  not,  however,  follow  that  these  last-named  goddesses  had  risen  into  any  import- 
ance in  the  time  of  Panini.     Indram  and  Yarunam  were  never  of  any  significance. 


406  HOW  DID  THE  LINGA-WORSHIP  ARISE  ? 

Gandharvas,  and  Apsarases  worship."  Ctmpare  with  this  extract 
verses  9616  f.,  9625  and  9631  of  the  Drona-parvan. 

The  Linga  is  also  mentioned  in  the  list  of  "S'iva's  names  in  another 
part  of  the  same  Anusasana-parvan,  v.  1 1 60  :  • 

Urdhva-retah  urdhva-lingah  urlhva-s'lyl  nabhah-sthitah  \  v.  1191. 
Lingadhyakshah  surddhychkak  ....  vyadhyaksho  vya-karta  .... 
"He  whose  seed  is  raised  up,  whose  Linga  is  raised  up,  who  sleeps 
aloft,  who  abides  in  the  sky."  .  .  .  .  v.  1191".  "The  lord  of  the 
Linga,  the  lord  of  the  suras  (gods)  ....  the  lord  of  seed,  the 
former  of  seed."  m 

We  possess  no  records  to  show  how  this  phallic  emblem  became  con- 
nected with  Rudra.  But,  as  Dr.  Stevenson  (Journal  K.  A.  S.,  viii. 
330 m)  and  Professor  Lassen  (Ind.  Ant.,  i.  2nd  ed.  924)  imagine,  it 

176  In  the  Sauptika-parvan  it  is  related  that  Mahadeva  had  been  appointed  by 
Brahma  to  create  living  beings.     He  proceeded  to  perform  austerities,  and  continued 
doing  so  so  long  that  Brahma  produced  another  creator,  who  performed  his  task. 
Mahadeva  at  last  came,  and  seeing  that  the  creation  had  already  been  effected,  he 
became  angry  and  split  his  Linga,  which  was  then  placed  in  the  earth  (v.  780  f. : 
ehukrodha  bhagavan  Rudro  lingaih  svaih  chapyavidhyata  \   tat  praviddhaih    tatha 
bhumau  tathaiva  pfatyatishthata).     I  have  not  observed  any  mention  of  the  Linga 
in  the  earlier  part  of  the  Ramayana,  but  in  the  Uttara  Kanda,  sect.  31,  v.  42  f.,  the 
folfowing  lines  occur :   Yatra  yatra  cha  yati  sma  Ravano  rakshasesvarah  \  jambuna- 
damayaih  lingam  tatra  tatra  sma  nlyate  \    43.  Baluka-vedi-madhye  tu  tal  lingam 
sthapya  Ravanah    \    archayamasa  gandhais    cha  pusfipais    chamrila-gandhibhih  \ 
""Wherever  Ravana,  lord  of  the  Rakshasas,  went,  a  golden  linga  was  carried  thither. 
Placing  that  linga  in  the  midst  of  a~  pedestal  of  sand,  Ravana  worshipped  it  with 
incense,  and  flowers  of  ambrosial  odour."      The  commentator  remarks  on  v.  43 : 
Tal  lingam  jambunadamayam  nitya-piga-lingam  \  Aisvarya-kamanaya  hi  tal-linga- 
pTija  Ravanasya  \  Aisvarya-kamasya  sauvarna-linga-pujayas  tantreshukteh  \    "That 
golden  linga  was  intended  for  constant  worship.     He  worshipped  it  from  the  desire 
of  sovereignty.    For  it  is  prescribed  in  ihe  Tantras  that  a  golden  linga  should  be 
worshipped  when  any  one  desires  sovereignty." 

177  In  this  paper  on  "the  Ante-Brahmanical  Religion:  of  the  Hindus,"  the  Rev. 
Dr.  Stevenson  asserts  that  the  "worship  of  S'iva,  especially  under  the  form  of  the 
Linga,"  is  one  of  the  practices  for  which  he  considers  modern  Hinduism  is  indebted 
to  the  ante-Brahrnauical  religion  of  India,  i.e.  to  local  superstitions  prevalent  among 
the  aboriginal  tribes  anterior  to  the  development  of  the  existing  Bra  hmanicalf  system. 
This  opinion  in  regard  to  S'iva  is  grounded  by  Dr.  Stevenson  on  tire  facts :  (1)  that 
S'iva  is  not  named  in  the  ancient  Vedic  hymns ;  (2)  that  Rudra  does  not  occupy  in 
those  hymns  the  high  position  which  the  later  S'iva  holds;  (3)  that  various  particulars 
in  the  legend  of  Daksha  (see  alx.ve,  pp.  372  ff.),  such  as  the  general  indisposition  to 
acknowledge  S'iva's  right  to  share  in  the  sacrifice,  and  the  circumstance  that  his  rites 
required  no  Brahmanical  priest  (see  above,  p.  377,  note  132),  point  to  a  recent  in- 
troduction of  S'iva's  worship  (comp.  Mrhabhiirata,  Vana-parvan,  vv.  11001  ff.,  cited 


TEXT  CONTAINING  THE  WOED  S'IS'NADEVA.  407 

is  not  impossible  that  it  may  have  been  at  first  an  object  of  veneration 
among  the  aboriginal  or  non-Arian  -indians ;  and  that  it  was  subse- 
quently adopted  by  the  Erahmaos  from  them,  and  associated  with  the 
worship  of  Kudra.  ,  « 

This  conjecture  would  acquire  additional  probability  if  we  were 
justified  in  supposing  that  the  word  "  sisnsyleva,"  which  occurs  in 
two  passages  of  tne  Rig-veda,  had  any  reference  to  a  worship  of  this 
sort  existing  among  tlie  barbarous  tribes  towards  whom  the  authors 
of  the  hymns  so  often  express  hostility,  as  the  followers  of  a  different 
religion  from  their  own.  The  texts  in  which  the  word  in  question  is 
found  have  been  already  adduced  and  translated  in  the  second  volume 
of  this  work  (p.  391,  note  76).  But  I  shall  quote  them  again  here 
with  their  obscure  and  difficult  contexts,  and  endeavour  to  elucidate 
them  further.  The  first  passage  is  as  follows : 

H.V.  vii.  21,  3  ff. — To  am  Indra  sravitavai  apas  Teak  parishthitdh  Ahind 
iura  purvlh  \  tvad  vdvakre  rathyo  no,  dhendh  re/ante  visvd  Icritrimani 
bhlshd  \  4.  Bhlmo  vivesha  dyudhebhir  eshdm  apdmsi  visvd  narydni  vidvdn  \ 
Indrah  puro  jarhrishdno  vi  dudhod  vi  vajra-hasto  mahind  jaghdna  \  5. 
No,  ydtavah  Indra  jujuvur  no  na  vandand  savishtha  vedydbhih™  \  set 
sardhad  aryo  vishunasya  jantor  md  sisna-devdh  api  gur  ritam  nah  \  6. 
Abhi  kratvd  Indra  bhur  adha  jman  na  te  vivyan  mahimdnam  rajdmsi  \ 
svena  hi  Vritram  savasd  jaghantha  na  satrur  antam  vividad  yudhd  te  \ 
7.  Devds  chit  te  asurydya  purve  anu  hhatrdya  mamire  sahdmsi  \  Indro 
maghani  dayate  vishahya  Indrafh  vdjaSya  johavantu  sdtau  \  8.  Klris 
chid  hi  tvdm  avase  juhdva  Isdnam  Indra  saubhagasya  bhureh  \  avo 
babhutha  satam-ute  asme  alhihshattus  tvdvato  varutd  \ 

"3.  Thou,  heroic  Indra,  hast  caused  to  flow  the  abundant  waters 

which  had  been  obstructed  by  Ahi.     Through  thee  the  cows  (rivers, 
.1 

in  p.  284  of  this  volume) ;  (4)  that  there  is  no  connexion  between  the  Linga  and  any 
of  the  ancient  Brahmanioal  emblems ;  (5)  that  the  principal  seats  of  the  Linga 
worship  are  to  be  found  in  *e  south  and  north-east  of  India,  at  a  distance  from 
the  original  Brahmanical  settlements ;  (6)  that  in  the  Mahratta  country  no  Brahman 
officiates  as  priest  in  a  Linga  temple,  while,  on  the  contrary,  in  the  temples  of  Vishnu 
Bratunans  alone  officiate.  [This  distinction  does  not,  I  think,  exist  in  Northern  India. 
In' the  temple  of  Vices' vara,  at  Benares,  the  officiating  priests,  if  I  am  not  mistaken, 
are  Brahmans.  The  same  is  the  impression  of  Pro?.  Fitz-Edward  Hall,  with  whom 
I  have  communicated  on  the  subject. — J.  M.] 

178  For  the  sense  assigned  to  this  word  in  Bbhtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon,  see  s.v . 
vedya.  3 


408  SENSE  OF  THE  WORD  S'IS'NADEVA 

according  to  Sayana)  have  rolled  on  like  -warriors  in  chariots.  All 
created  things  tremble  for  fear.  rj4.  The  terrible  [god],  skilled  in  all 
heroic  deeds,  has  with  his  weapons ,., mastered  these  [cloud-demons]. 
Indra,  exulting,  has  shattered  they;  cities;  armed  with  the  thunder- 
bolt he  has  smitten  them  asunder  byjiis  might.  5.  Neither  demons 
impel  us,  Indra,  nor,  Ofipuissant  [deity],  of  a  truth  any  evil  spirits. 
The  glorious  [Indra]  defies  the  hostile  beings :  let  not  those  whose  god 
is  the  'sisna'  approach  our  sacred  ceremony.  6.  Thou,  0  Indra,  hast 
surpassed  in  power,  when  tnou  runnest  thy  course.  The  worlds  have 
not  comprehended  within  them  thy  greatness.  By  thine  own  might 
thou  hast  slain  Yritra.  No  enemy  hath  attained  the  end  of  thee  in 
battle.  7.  The  earlier  gods  have  yielded  to  thy  divine  power ;  their 
powers  have  bowed  before  thy  sovereign  might.179  Indra  having 
conquered,  dispenses  wealth.  Let  men  invoke  Indra  in  the  combat. 
8.  Indra,  the  bard  hath  invoked  for  protection  thee,  the  lord  of  great 
prosperity.  0  thou  who  bringest  a  hundred  succours,  thou  hast  been 
a  defence  to  us,  a  defender  against  the  assailant  of  him  who  is  devoted 
to  thee." 

R. V.  x.  99,  1  ff. — Earn  nas  cJiitram  ishanyasi  chikitvdn  prithugmdnam 
vdsraih  vdvridhadhyai  \  kat  tasya  ddtu  Savaso  vyushtau  takshad  vajram 
Vritra-turam  apinvat  \  2.  Sa  hi  dyutd  vidyutd  veti  sdma  prithum  yonim 
asuratvd  "sasdda  \  sa  sariiUbhih  prasahdno  asya  bhrdtur  na  rite  sapta- 
thasya  mdydh  \  3.  Sa  vdjaih  ydtd  apadushpadd  yan  svarshdtd  parishadat 
sanishyan  \  anarvd  yat  sata-durasya  18°  vedo  ghnan  iisnadevdn  abJii  varpasd 
'bhut  |  4.  Sa  yahvyo  avanlr  goshu  arvd  d  juhoti  pradhanydsu  sasrih  \ 
apddo  yatra  yujydso  'rathdh  drony-asvdsah  Irate  ghritam  vdh  \  5.  Sa 
Rudrebhir  asasta-vdrah  ribhvd  hitvl yayam  dre-avadydh.  d  agdt  \  vamrasya 
manye  mithund  vivavrl  annum  abhltya  arodayat  mushdyan  |  6.  ^a  id 
ddsam  tuvi-ravam  patir  dan  shad-altsham  tri-sirJia.naih  damanyat  \  asya 
Trito  nu  ofasd  vridhdno  vipd  vardham  ayo-agrayd  han  \  7.  Sa  druhvane 
manushe  urdhvasdnah  d  sdvishad  arsasdndya  §arum  \  sa  nritamo  nahusho 
'smat  sujdtah  puro  'bhinad  arhan  dasyu-hatye  \  "What  wenderful;  wide- 
travelling  bull  dost  thou,  perceiving,  send  to  us  for  our  delight !  What 

an  act  of  power  does  he  display  at  the  dawn!     He  has  formed" the 
f\ 

179  «lhre  Kraft  kommt  deiner  Herrscherkraft  nicht  gleich," — Bohtlingk  and  Roth 
*.».  ma-\-anu. 

180  This  word  in  the  locative  plural  ateo  occurs  in  R.V.  i.  51,  3. 


OCCURRING  IN  THE  RIGVEDA.  409 

Vritra-slaying  thunderbolt,  and  has  strengthened  thee.  2.  With 
gleaming  light  he  comes  to  the  gaal;  in  his  divine  glory  he  hath 
seated  himself  on  our  broad  place  of  sacrifice;  with  his  allies  he 
overcomes  the  delusions  of  him  who  pretends  to  be  his  seventh  brother. 
3.  Proceeding  to  the  conflict,, and  desiring  to  acquire  them,  he  has 
gone  to,  and  in  hostile  array  besieged,  inaccessible  places,  at  the  time 
when,  irresistible,  slaying  those  whose  god  is  the  '  s'isna,'  he  by  his 
craft  conquered  the  riches  of  the  city  with  a  hundred  gates.  4.  The 
steed,  coming  among  the  cows  conquered  in  battle,  pours  out  the 
flowing  rivers  [in  the  place]  where  the  allies,  without  feet  or  chariots, 
employing  the  clouds  as  their  horses,  send  forth  fertilizing  water.  5. 
The  great  [Indra],  who  has  indescribable,  treasures,  and  from  whom 
evil  is  far  removed,  forsaking  his  house,  has  arrived  with  the  Rudras. 
Coming  and  plundering  their  food,  he  has,  I  believe,  made  the  two 
unsheltered  (children)  of  Vamra  to  weep.  6.  This  lord  subjugated  the 
loud-voiced  Dasa  with  six  eyes  and  three  heads.  Trita,  increasing 
through  his  strength,  struck  the  boar  with  his  iron-tipped  shaft.  7. 
Rising  up,  he  has  launched  his  arrow  against  the  malignant  and  de- 
structive man.  He,  the  noble  and  potent  hero,  has  shattered  for  us 
the  cities  of  the  enemy  (or  of  Nahush)  in  the  conflict  with  the%de- 
stroyers  (Dasyus)."181 

The  following  is  Sayana's  explanation  of  the  word  "  sisnadeva"  in 
the  first  of  the  preceding  passages,  K.V.  vii.  21,  5,  and  repeated  briefly 
in  his  note  on  the  second  passage :  S'iSna-devdh  \  iisnena  divyanti  krl- 
danti  iti  sisna-devdh  \  abrahmacharydh  ity  arthah  \  tathd  cha  Ydskah  \ 
....  " sisna-deviih  abrahmacharydh"  \  .  .  .  .  "  'S'isnadevah'  are  those 
who  sport  with  the  sisn-a  (membrum  virile),  i.e.  unchaste  men;  as 
Yaska  says,  '  Sisnadevah '  means  the  unchaste."  Durga,  the  com- 
mentator on  the  Niriikta,  as  cited  by  Roth  (Illust.  of  Nir.  p.  47), 
gives  the  same  explanation  as  Sayana.  He  says  that  those  men  are 
called  "sisnadeva"  who.,"  are  always  dallying  carnally  with  prostitutes, 
forsaking  Ye^ic  observances  (sisnena  nityam  eva  praklrndlhih  strllhih 
sdkam  krldantah  dsate  srautuni  karmdny  utsrijya\  Roth,  in  the  place 
I  'have  cited,  thinks  the  word  is  a  sarcastic  appellation  for  priapic  or 
lustful  demons,  and  translates  it  by  "  Schwanz-gotter." 

181  Prof.  Aufrecht  has  given  me  much  assistance  in  translating  these  two  passages. 
— Note  in  first  edition.  I  have  made  a  good  many  alterations  in  the  second  edition. 


410  SENSE  OF  THE  WORD  S'IS'NADEVA. 

It  does  not  appear  to  me  that  Sayana' s  interpretation  has  much  to 
recommend  it.  There  are  some  ot&er  words  in  the  Veda  in  which  the 
word  "deva"  forms  the  last  member  of  the "  compound,  as  "anrita- 
deva"  (vii.  104,  14)  and  "  mura-deva  "  (vii.  ,104,  24). ls2  Sayana 
explains  "mura-devah"  as="m&rana-krldrih,"  "those  wh"o  make  a 
sport  of  killing";  and  h^  therefore  takes  "deva"  there  in  the  same 
sense  as  he  does  in  "  sisna-deva."  But  in  the  other  word,  "anrita- 
deva,"  he  takes  "deva"  in  the  usual  sense  of  "god,"  and  interprets 
it  as  "he  whose  gods  are  false"  (anritdh  asatya-bhutdh  devdh  yasya 
tddriiali).  In  the  same  way  he  understands  "  anti-devam  "  in  E.Y.  i. 
180,  7,  as  meaning  "near  the  gods."  And  though  in  Bohtlingk  and 
Roth's  Dictionary  the  word  "  anrita-deva  "  is  explained  as  signifying 
a  "false  player,"  this  interpretation  is  afterwards  withdrawn  (in  favour 
of  that  which  Sayana  gives  of  this  word)  at  the  close  of  the  article  on 
the  word  "deva."  Nor  does  the  sense  assigned  by  Sayana  to  "  sisna- 
deva"  appear  to  be  in  itself  a  very  probable  one.  For  the  epithet 
"  lascivious"  would  not  necessarily  be  a  term  of  reproach  in  the  mouth 
of  an  Indian  poet  of  the  Vedic  age,  when,  though  the  institution  of 
marriage  was  recognized  and  honoured,  no  great  amount  of  reprobation 
could  have  been  attached  to  unchastity  in  the  case  of  men  (compare 
E.V.  i.  167,  4;  ix.  112,  4;  x.  85,  37,  and  x.  86,  16,  17,  and  the  fifth 
volume  of  this  work,  pp.  307  f.,  460  f).  On  the  other  hand,  if  the 
word  "sisna-deva"  is  to  be  understood  of  human  beings,  and  if  it  could 
be  taken  as  describing  any  deviation  from  the  contemporaneous  Arian 
worship,  it  would  find  many  parallels  in  the  Big-veda,  as  may  be  seen 
by  a  comparison  of  the  words  "akarman,"  "aderayu,"  "anrich," 
"anindra,"  "  anya-vrata,  "  "  apavrata,  "  -"  avrata, "  "abrahman," 
"ayajvan"  "ayajyu"  |  "without  ceremonies,  no  worshippers  of  the 
gods,  without  hymns,  without  Indra,  following  other  rites,  averse  to 
rites,  without  rites,  without  priests,  or  prayers,  offering  no  sacrifices,"  in 
the  passages  quoted  in  the  second  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  359  f.,  371  ff. 

It  is,  however,  objected  that  "sisna"  cannot  be  taken,  as  equivalent 
to  "  Linga,"  which  means  a  sign,  the  phallus,  and  is  therefore  em- 
blematic, while  the  "sisna"  denotes  not  an  image,  but  the  male  organ 
itself.  "Sisna"  has  also  the  sense  of  "tail,"  as  in  B.V.  i.  105,  8, 

182  The  word  is  explained  by  Bohtlingk  and  Both  s.v.  as=muladeva,  and  as  de- 
noting a  species  of  goblins.  * 


QUOTATION  FROM  GORRESIO'S  RAMAYANA.  411 

pointed  out  to  me  by  Professor  Aufrecht,  where  the  words  miisho  na 
sisna  vyadanti  ma  adhyah  mean,  "  cares  worry  me,  like  mice  gnawing 
their  tails."  The  word  "sisnadwah,"  if  understood  of  demons,  may 
therefore  mean,  as  Ro£h  suggests,  •"  tailed  (or  priapic)  demons,"  and 
not  "  worsliippers  of  the  sisna,,"  Tie  same  difficulty  which  we  en- 
counter in  fixing  the  meaning  of  the  word  "dasyu,"  viz.  whether  it 
is  to  be  understood  of  men  or  demons  (see  the  second  volume  of  this 
work,  pp.  362  ff. ;  38l3  ff.),  recurs  here.  In  the  first  of  the  passages 
quoted  above  (vii.  21,  5)  it  appears,  so  long  as  we  are  ignorant  of  ihp 
real  sense  of  "  sisna-deva,"  that  it  might  be  understood  either  of 
men  or  demons,  either  of  whom  would  have  been  unwelcome  visitors 
at  an  Arian  ceremonial.  Perhaps,  as  the  word  "yatavah"  (demons) 
precedes,  it  is  most  likely  that  the  latter  are  intended  :  and  the  same 
remark  may  be  held  to  apply  to  the  second  passage  (x.  99,  3). 

However  interesting,  therefore,  it  would  be  to  find  a  proof  of  the 
existence  of  a  phallic  worship  among  the  aboriginal  tribes  contemporary 
with  the  Vedic  rishis,  it  must  be  confessed  that  the  word  "sisnadeva" 
does  not  supply  this  evidence. 

In  a  passage  (in  the  Preface  to  the  tenth  vol.  of  his  Eamayana,  p.  ix.) 
which  I  have  adduced  in  the  second  vol.  of  this  work  (pp.  419  £), 
Signer  Gorresio  expresses  the  opinion  that  the  Southern  race,  whom 
he  supposes  to  be  symbolized  under  the  appellation  of  Rakshasas,  were 
specially  addicted  to  the  worship  of  "  Rudra,  or  a  terrible  "  and,  as  he 
believes,  "a  Hamitic  deity."*  In  note  $5  (p.  291  of  the  same  volume), 
on  the  destruction  of  Daksha's  sacrifice,  he  says:  "It  appears  to  me 
that  in  this  fact  4he  struggle  of  the  ancient  religions  of  India  is  re- 
presented under  a  mythical  veil.  S'iva  (a  deity,  as  I  believe,  of  the 
Cushite  or  Hamitic  tribes  which  preceded  on  the  soil  of  India  the 
Arian  or  Indo- Sanskrit  races)  wished  to  have  a  part  in  the  worship  of 
the  conquerors,  and  in  their  sacrifices,  from  which  he  was  excluded ; 
and  by  disturbing  their  i^tes,  and  by  a  display  of  violence  at  their 
sacrifices,  he  ^ucceeded  in  being  admitted  to  participate  in  them." 
Signer  Gorresio,  however,  offers  very  little  proof  of  his  assertion  in 
regard  to  the  worship  of  S'iva  being  specially  prevalent  among  the 
savage  tribes  of  the  south.  In  note  116,  p.  370,  of  his  ninth  vol., 
indeed,  he  remarks  as  follows  on  a  passage  (Ramayana  vi.  19,  50  f.) 
where  it  is  said  that  Indrajit,  son  of  Ravana,  had  a  golden  serpent  for 


412          WORSHIP  OF  S'lVA  BOTH  IN  NORTH  AND  SOUTH. 

his  banner:  "The  serpent  was  the  special  symbol  in  the  worship  of 
the  Hamite  races,  and  here  thenefore  Indrajit,  the  black  Rakshasa, 
the  Hamite,  sets  it  up  as  his  banner.  Thus  in  the  seventy-eighth 
chapter  of  the  Sundara  Kanda  itcis  said  that  Indrajit  was  in  the 
habit  of  sacrificing  especially  to  S'iva,  the  Hamitic  deity1,  who  pos- 
sesses all  the  attribute^  of  the  Hamitic  religion,  and  who  entered 
into  the  Indo-Sanskrit  Olympus  by  one  of  those  religious  syncretisms 
of  which  traces  are  so  frequently  to  be  found  in'the  ancient  systems  of 
worship." 

The  passage  of  the  Sundara  Kanda  to  which  Gorresio  refers  occurs, 
in  the  Bombay  edition,  in  the  seventh  section  of  the  Yuddha  Kanda, 
vv.  18  f.  (=Sundara  Kanda  78,  17,  in  Gorresio's  ed.),  and  is  as  follows : 

Tishtha  vd  kim  mahdrdja  Sramena  tava  vdnardn  \  ayam  eko  mahdrdja 
Indrajit  kshapayishyati  \  anena  cha  mahdrdja  Mdhesvaram  anuttamam  \ 
ishtvd  yajnam  varo  labdho  loTce  parama-durlabhah  \  "  Stay,  great  king, 
what  need  is  there  of  thy  exertions  ?  This  Indrajit  alone  will  destroy 
the  monkeys.  For  by  him  a  boon,  hard  to  be  gotten,  was  obtained 
after  he  had  offered  an  unequalled  sacrifice  to  Hahadeva." 

This  passage  is  not  sufficient  to  prove  that  Hahadeva  was  in  a  special 
degree  the  god  of  the  savages  of  the  South.  We  have  already  seen 
(pp.  184  ff.,  283  ff.),  by  the  cases  of  Arjuna,  Jayadratha,  Parasurama, 
and  above  all,  of  Jarasandha,  as  recorded  in  the  Hahabharata,  that  the 
worship  of  Hahadeva  (frequently  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  some 
boon)  was  practised  by  the  wttrriors  of  Northern  India,  just  as  it  is 
here  said  to  have  been  by  Indrajit.  Further,  it  is  not  S'iva  alone 
whom  the  Rakshasas  worshipped  for  their  own  purposes.  It  appears 
from  the  passage  of  the  Ramayana  (cited  above  in  p.  167)  that  Ravana 
had  obtained  the  gift  of  invincibility  from  Brahma.  At  the  same 
time  it  will  be  seen  from  a  passage  cited  belo\<-  from  the  Uttara  Kanda 
25,  9,  that  it  was  the  sacrifice  to  Mahadeva,  and  not  the  one  to  Vishnu 
which  procured  for  Indrajit  his  magical  powers. 

The  same  worship  of  Brahma  is  related  in  regard  to  Atikkya,  one 
of  Ravana's  sons,  in^Ramayana  vi.  71,  31  f.  (Bombay  ed) : 

Etenurddhito  Brahma  tapasd  Ihdvitatmana  \  astrdni  chapy  avd'ptdni 
ripavas  cha  pardjituh  \  sdrdsurair  abadhyatvam  dattam  asmai  Svayam- 
bhuvd  |  "By  this  contemplative  (Rakshasa)  Brahma  had  been  wor- 
shipped with  austerities,  and  he,  had  obtained  weapons,  and  conquered 


RAVANA  AN  OBSERVER  OF  THE  VEDIC  RITUAL.  413 

his  enemies.    [The  privilege]  had  been  bestowed  on  him  by  Svayambhu 
that  he  should  be  indestructible  by  gods  or  Asuras." 

In  verse  28  he  is  described  as  "reverent  to  the  aged,  and  of  re- 
nowned strength"  (yriddha-sevl  sruta-balahis3}.  Havana  himself  is 
represented  in  the  Ramayana  as  an  observer  of  the  Vedic  ritual.  Thus 
in  Book  vi.  93,  58  ff.  (Bombay  e'd.=vi.  72,  62  ff.  of  Gorr.),  his  minister, 
Suparsva  ( Avindhya ls4  in  Gorr.),  who  is  described  as  "virtuous  and 
pure,"  is  introduced  as 'saying  to  him  :  Veda-vidya-vrata* sndtas  sva- 
Jcarma-niratas 185  tatha  \  striydh  Tcasmdd  bc&lham  vlra  manyase  Rdksha- 
sesvara  \  "  Why  dost  thou,  heroic  Ravana,  lord  of  the  Rakshasas,  who 
knowest  the  Yeda,  hast  practised  the  prescribed  discipline,  and  art  an 
initiated  householder,  and  devoted  to  thy  duty,  meditate  the  slaughter 
of  a  woman?"  And  Yibhishana,  in  his  eulogy  on  his  brother  after  his 
death,  says  (vi.  Ill,  23,  Bombay  ed.  =  vi.  93,  30  of  Gorr.):  Esho 
hitdgnis 18f*  cha  mahdtapds  cha,  veddnlagah  karmasu  chdgrya-surah  \ 
"He  had  placed  the  sacrificial  fire,  was  very  austere,  had  read  the 
concluding  treatises  of  the  Yeda,  and  was  an  eminent  hero  in  rites." 187 

183  Instead  of  sruta-balah,  Gorresio's  edition  reads  s'rutidharah,  "  an  observer  of 
the  Vedas."     In  Manu  vii.  38  the  following  verse  occurs :    Vriddhaihscha  nityam 
seveta  vipran  veda-vidah  suchln  \  vriddha-sevi  hi  satatam  rakshobhir  api  pujyate  \ 
"Let  [the  king]  constantly  reverence  old  and  pure  Brahmans,  skilled  in  the  Ve4as; 
for  he  who  continually  reverences  the  aged  is  honoured  even  by  the  Rakshasas." 
Can  this  verse  refer  to  the  character  vriddha-sevi  given  to  Atikaya  in  the  passage 
(Ram.  vi.  71,  28)  quoted  above?    If  so,  the  passage  in  Manu  must  be  posterior 
in  date  to  the  Ramayana.      Or  has  this  character  been  given  to  Atikaya  in  con- 
sequence of  the  verse  of  Manu?  or  have  the1  two  passages  no  connexion?     The 
coincidence  is  at  least  curious. 

184  He  is,  as  remarked  by  the  commentator,  also  called  Avindhya ;  and  so  in  the 
(Ramopakhyana  in  tfle  Vana-parvan  of  the)  Mahabharata  (vv.  16148,  16492-6,  and 
elsewhere).  ' 

185  The  commentator  thus  explains  these  words :  Veda-vidya-grahapekshita-brahma- 
charya-vrata-purva-vidyam  grihitva  \  snatah  \  guru-kulat  samavrittas  tadanantaraih 
dara-grahana-purvaih  nityagnihotradi-sva-Jcarma-niratah  \     "  One  who  has  obtained 
a  knowledge  of  the  Veda  after  practising  the  discipline  of  continence  required  for  the 
reception  of  such  knowledge ;  and  who,  after  returning  from  his  preceptor's  family, 
has  married  a  wife,  and  continues  devoted  to  the  practice  of  the  agnihotra  and  other 
indispensable  ritVs."      See  "Wilson's  and  Williams's  Dictionaries,  s.vv.  snnta  and 
siiataka,  and  Kulluka's  note  on  Manu  iii.  2,  referred  to  by  the  latter  lexicographer. 

185  Esho  hitagnir  ity  arshah  sandhih  \  ahitagnir  iti  chhedah  \  Comm. 

187  Vedantagah  \  adhitopanishatkah  \  karmasu  agnihotradishu  \  agryasurah  \ 
paramanushthata  parama-karmathah  \  In  some  of  the  earlier  lines  of  the  same 
section  Vibhishana  thus  speaks  of  Ravana:  Gatah  setuh  sunltanam  gato  dharmasya 
tigrahah  \  gatah  satvasya  sanksliepah  suhastunaih  gatir  gato.  \  adityah  patito  bhumau 


414  HAVANA  INTERRED  WITH 

• 
Again,  it  is  related  in  the  hundred  and  thirteenth  section  (Bombay 

ed.),  that  Havana  was  buried  with  the  usual  Brahmanical  ceremonies, 
though  the  commentator  (in  his  note  on  verge  107)  says  that  the 
Brahmans  who  were  concerned  in  them  were  Eakshasa-brahmans 
(Rdkshasa-dvijdJi). 

Ramayana  vi.  113,  w.  112  A°.  (Bombay  ed.) — Chitdm  chandana- 
kdsthais  cha  padmakosira-chandanaih  \  brdhmydm  wihvartaydmdsuh 
rdnkavdstat%ndvritdm  \  prachakruh  Rdkshus^drasya  pilrimedham 
anuttamam  \  vedimcha  daks! indprdchim  yathd-sthdnancha  pdvakam  \ 
p'rishaddjyena  sampurnam  sruvam  skandhe  prachikshipuh  \  pddayoh  saka- 
tam  prdpur  urvos  cholukhalam  tadd  \  ddru-pdtrdni  sarvdni  aranim 
chottardranim  \  dattvd  tu  musalaih  chdnyam  yathd-sthdnam  vichakramuh  \ 
sti&tra-drishtena  vidhind  maharshi-vihitena 189  cha  \  tatra  medhyam  pasum 
hatvd  Rdkshasendrasya  Rdkshasdh  \  paristaranikdm™  rdjno  ghritdktdfii 
samavesayan  \  gandhair  mdlyair  alankritya  Rdvanam  dlna-t.ndnasdh  \ 
Vibhlshana-sahdyds  te  vastrais  cha  vividhair  api  \  Idjair  avakiranti  sma 
vdshpa-piirna-mukhds  tatJid  \  sa  dadau  pavakam  tasya  vidhi-yuktafh 
Tibhishhanah  \  sndtvd  chaivdrdra-vastrena  tildn  darlJia-vimisritdn  \ 
udakena  cha  sammisrdn  praddya  vidhi-purvakamm  \  "They  formed, 

magnas  tamasi  chandramah  \  "  The  bulwark  of  the  righteous  is  gone ;  gone  is  the 
imrfge  of  virtue ;  gone  is  the  summary  of  goodness  [or  strength,  Comrn.]  ;  the  lot  of 
heroes  has  been  gained  by  him.  The  sun  has  fallen  to  the  ground ;  the  moon  has 
been  quenched  in  darkness,"  etc.  And  yet  Vibhishana  abuses  his  dead  brother  in  the 
hundred  and  thirteenth  section  (Bombay  ed.),  TV.  93  ff, 

188  Yeda-marganugata-kriyaya  \  Cpmm. 

189  Ealpa-sutra-krid-rishi-vihitena  \  Comm. 

190  Paristlryate  mukham  anaya  iti  paristaranika  vapa  \  tarn  rakshasendrasya  mukhe 
samavesayan  \    "vapa  'si/a  mukham  praurnauli"  iti  sutrat  \    Comm.;    who  seems 
therefore  to  understand  paristaranika  of  fat  (see  Miiller  as  f'ted  in  the  article  re- 
ferred to  in  note  192).     The  commentator,  however,"  gives  also  another  reading  and 
explanation  which  I  quote :   Tirthas  tu  anustaranikim  rajnah  iti  pathitva  anusta- 
raniktm  rajagavlm  tarn  alabhya  tachcharmana  yajamdnqm  astritavantah  ity  arthah  \ 
"  But  Tirtha  (a  previous  commentator)  rerds  anustaranikim  rajnah,  and  explains  the 
sense  thus :  having  immolated  a  rajagavi  (bos  grunniens),  they  covered  the  sacrifice 
with  its  skin." 

191  I  insert  here  part  of  Gorresio's  text  for  comparison  (vi.  96.  10  ff.) :  ,Tatas  te 
veda-vidvaiiisas   tarn  rajnah  paschitnam  kriyam  \  chakrire  rakshdjendrasya  preta- 
medham   anuttamam  \  veinicha  dakshina-prachyam  yatha-sthanam  cha  pavakam  \ 
Vibhlshanas  tu  samprapya  tushn/m  samasrijat  sruvam  \  prishadajyasya  sampur%ati 
s'ruvan  sarvdn  yathavidhi   \    Ryvanasya  tada  sarve  vashpa-purna-mukhdh  dvijdh  \ 
padayoh  sakatam  chakrur  antarorav  udiikhalam  \  vanaspatydni  chcinyani  antare  'pi 
vyadhapayan  \  dattva    tu  mushalam   chaiva  yathdsthanam  mahatmanah  \    sastra- 
drishtena  vidhina  maharshi-vihitena  cha\  tatah  paschat  pasum  hatva  rakshasendrasyh 
rdkshasdh  \  athastaranikam  sarvam  ghritdktam  samavesayan  \ 


BRAHMANICAL  KITES.  415 

with  Vedic  rites,  a  funeral  pile  of  faggots  of  sandalwood,  with 
"padmaka"  wood,  "uslra"  grass,  and  sandal,  and  covered  with  a 
quilt  of  deer's  hair.  .They  then  performed  an  unrivalled  obsequial 
ceremony  for  the  Rakshasa  prinde,  [placing]  the  sacrificial  ground  to 
the  south-east  and  the  *fire  in  the  proper  situation.  They  cast  the  ladle 
filled  with  curds  and  ghee,  on  tAe  shoulder 192  (of  the  deceased) ;  they 
placed  the  car  on^the  feet,  and  the  mortar  between  the  thighs.  Having 
deposited  all  the  wooden  vessels,  the  [upper]  and  lower  firewood  (arani\ 
and  the  other  pestle,  in  their  proper  places,  they  departed.  The 
Rakshasas  having  then  slain  a  victim  to  their  prince  in  the  manner 
prescribed  in  the  S'astras,  and  enjoined  by  great  rishis,  cast  [into  the 
fire]  the  coverlet  of  the  king  saturated  with  butter.  They  then,  "* 
Vibhlshana  included,  with  afflicted  hearts,  adorned  Ravana  with 
perfumes  and  garlands,  and  with  various  vestments,  and  besprinkled 
him  with  .fried  grain,  their  faces  being  covered  with  tears.  Vibhi- 
shana  having  bathed,  and  having,  with  his  clothes  wet,  scattered  in 
proper  form  "tila"  seeds  mixed  with  "darbha"  grass,  and  moistened 
with  water,  applied  the  fire  [to  the  pile]."  m 

Gorresio  remarks  (note  94,  p.  310,  vol.  x.)  that  the  funeral  rites  of 
the  Arian  Brahmans  are  here  introduced  as  practised  among  the 
Rakshasas,  a  race  of  different  origin  and  worship,  in  the  same  waj'as 
Homer  represents  Grecian  ceremonies  as  having  been  celebrated  in 
Troy. 

192  "  According  to  Apastamba  (says  the  commentator),  it  should  have  been  placed 
on  the  nose ;   this  must  therefore  have  been  done  in  conformity  with  some  other 
eutras"  (yadyapi  "nasike  sruvav"  Ity  ^.pastambenoktam  tathapi  sutrantarat  skandhe 
'pi  nikshcpah  sruvasye^  bodhyaK),     Compare  Professor  Miiller's  article  on  the  funeral 
ceremonies  of  the  Brahmans  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society  for  1855, 
pp.  vi.  ff. 

193  On  this  whole  passage  the  commentator  remarks :  "  Tatyajus  tarn  mahabhagam 
pancha-bhutani  Ravanam  \  forlra-dhatavo  hy  asya  mamsam  rudhiram  eva  cha  \  nesur 
brahmastra-nirdagdhah  na  cha  bhasmapy  adrilyata"    iti  Mahabharate  uktatvena 
kasya  Vulniikina  smasananayana-purvakam  dahah  uktah  iti  chen  na  \   tasya  Rcima- 
vana-tejo-varnana-vishaye  'tyukty-alankara-paratvad  iti  vadati  \    ,"  Since  it  is  said 
in  the  Mv\hubharaki'(Ramopakhyiina,  in  Vana-parvan  16529  f.)  that  'the  five  elements 
forsook  the  great  Havana,  and  the  constituents  of  his  body,  flesh,  and  blood  perished, 
when,he  was  burnt  up  by  the  divine  weapon  (brahmastra),  and  not  even  any  ashes 
wert?  seen ; ' — who  is  it  that  is  here  alleged  by  Valmiki  to  have  been  brought  to  the 
cemetery  and  then  burnt  ?     If  any  one  raises  this  objection,  I  deny  that  there  is  any 
difficulty,  as  in  the  description  of  Kama's  prowess  the  Mahubhurata  makes  use  of  the 
ornament  of  exaggeration." 


416  INDRAJIT  SACRIFICES  TO  FIRE, 

Nor  does  it  appear  that  in  the  rites  described  in  the  following  passage 
(of  Gorresio's  edition)  which  are  said  to  have  been  performed  by  Indra- 
jit,  the  son  of  Havana,  there  is  anything,  except  JJie  "  Rakshasa  texts," 
contrary  to  Brahmanical  usages.  A£,  however,  the  commentator  (in 
the  Bombay  ed.),  in  his  note  on  anot'ner  passage,  'represents  the  worship 
at  the  Nikumbhila  as  being  offered  to  'Kali,  and  as  the  description  is 
of  some  interest,  I  will  d[uote  it  at  length : 194  „, 

Ramayana  vi.  19,  38  ff.  (Gorr.). — Indrajti  fa  tatas  tena  samyuge 
' '  dbhuta-kdrind  \  nirjito  Bajji-putrena  krodham  chakre  suddrunam  \  so 
'ntardhdna-gatah  pdpo  Rdvanih  rana-karkasah  \  nilcumlhildydm  vidhi-vat 
Pdvakafii  juhuve  'stra-vit  \  juhvatas  tasya  tatrdgnau  raktoshmshdmbara- 
srajah  \  djahrus  tatra  samlhrdntdh  Rdkshasdh  yatra  Rdvanih  \  sastrani 
sitadhdrdni  samidJio  'tha.'  vibhltakdn  \  lohitdni  cha  vdsdmsi  sruvam 

194  The  Bombay  edition  (vi.  44,  32  ff.)  gives  the  first  verse  and  the  first  half  of  the 
second  nearly  as  they  stand  in  Gorresio's  edition,  and  the  second  half  'of  the  second, 
with  its  sequel,  as  follows :  Brahma-datta-vo.ro  vlro  Ravanih  krodha-murchhitah  \ 
adrisyo  nisitdn  vanan  mumochasani-varchasah  \  "  The  son  of  Ravana,  to  whom  a 
boon  had  been  given  by  Brahma,  mad  with  rage,  discharged  sharp  arrows,  gleaming 
like  lightnings."  No  mention  is  made  of  the  sacrifice  in  the  Bombay  text.  In  Rama- 
yana, book  v.,  sect  24  (Bombay  ed.),  it  is  related  that  the  female  Rakshasas  had  been 
threatening  Sita  after  her  capture  by  Ravana,  because  she  would  not  yield  to  his  desires, 
and  that  one  of  them,  S'urpanakha,  acceding  to  a  proposal  to  eat  her,  says  (v.  44  f.) : 
Sura  chanlyatam  kshipram  sarva-s'oka-vinasin7\  manusham  maihsam  dsvadya  nrityamo 
'tha  nikumbhilam  \  "And  let  wine  be  quickly  brought,  which  annihilates  all  sorrows. 
Enjoying  human  flesh,  let  us  dance  at  the  Nikumbhila."  The  comment  on  this 
passage  states  that  the  Nikumbhila  was  an  image  of  BhadrakalT  on  the  west  side  of 
Lanka  (Nikumbhila  nama  Lankaych  paschima-bhaga-vartim  Bhadrakalt  \  tarn 
nrityamah  tat-samlpam  gatva  nrityamah}.  In  the  Uttara  Kanda  (sect.  25,  v.  2)  we 
are  told  that  Ravana,  with  his  attendants,  entered  "  the  Nikumbhila,  a  grove  in 
Lanka"  (tato  nikumbhila  nama  Lankopavamam  uttamam] .  <,The  commentator  says 
it  was  "  a  wood  situated  at  the  western  gate  of  Lanjia  for  th&  performance  of  rites  " 
( Lanka-paschima-dvara-desa-varti-karma-siddhi-hetii-bhutam  kananam ).  His  son 
Indrajit,  with  the  aid  of  the  Brahman  Us'anas,  had  been  celebrating  there  the  seven 
sacrifices,  the  "agnishtoma,"  " as'vamedhha,"  "rajasuya,f"  "gomedha"  (cow-sacrifice), 
the  Vaishnava  ceremonial,  etc.  When  'he  had  performed  the  Mahes'vara  offering, 
"which  it  is  difficult  for  men  to  obtain,"  he  obtained  boons  from  Mahadeva,  who  ap- 
peared to  him  (ibid,  verses  3  ff.).  (This  is  the  ceremcny  alluded  to  above,  in  p.  412.) 
But  he  had  also  been  performing  the  Vaishnava  "rite;  which,  however,  is  il'ot  said  to 
have  been  productive  of  any  results.  Verses  Tb  ff.  of  this  section  are  as  follows : 
Yajnas  te  sapta  putrena  praptas  te  bahu-vistarah  \  8.  Agnishtomo  'kvamedhqs  cha 
yajno  bahusuvarnakah  |  rajasuyas  tatha  yajno  gomedho  Vaishnavas  tatha  \  9.  MShes- 
vare  pravritte  tu  ycjne  ptimbhih  sudurlabhe  \  varams  te  labdhavan  putrah  sakshat 
Pasupater  iha  \  Only  six  kinds  of  sacrifice  are  here  mentioned,  unless  the  word 
"  Bahusuvarnaka  "  stands  for  a  seventh. 


AND  OBTAINS  AN  INVISIBLE  CHAKIOT.  417 

• 

Jcdrshdyasam  tatah  \  sarvato  'gnini  samdstirya  saraih  sa-prdsa-tomaraih  \ 
chhdgalasydpi  krishnasya  kantJtdd  dd^dya  Jivatah  \  sonitafh  tena  vidhivat 
sajuhdva  ranotsukah  \  sahrid  eva  samiddhasya  vidhumasya  mahdrchishah  \ 
labhuvuh  saihnimittdni  vijayam  ydtty  avedayan  \  pradakshindvarta-sikhas 
tapta-hdtaka-sannibhah  \  havis  tat  prafy'agrdha  Pdvakah  svayam  utthitah  \ 
tato  'gni-madhydd  uttasthdu  kdnchanah  syandanottamah  \  chaturbhih  kdn- 
chandpidair  asiitir  yuktah  prabhadrakaih  \  antardhdna-gatah  srlmdn 
dlpta-pdvaka-saprabhah  \  hutdgnim  tarpayitvd  cha  daitya-ddnava-rdksha- 
sdn  |  vdchai/itcd  tatah  svasti  prayuktuslr*dvijdtilhih  \  druroha  ratham 
sreshtham  antar-dhdna-charaih  sulJiam  \  sva-vasyair  vajibldr  yuktam 
sastrats  cha  vividhair  yutam  .  .  .  50.  JdmTtunadamayo  ndgas  tarwnd- 
ditya-sannibhah  \  babhuvendrajitah  ketur  vaidurya-samalankritah  \  Hutvd 
'gnim  Rdkshasair  mantrais  tato  vachanam  abramt  \ 

"But  Indrajit,  being  conquered  in  the  conflict  by  the  miracle-work- 
ing son  of  Bali,  became  inflamed  with  terrific  anger.  This  wicked  sou 
of  Ravana,  fierce  in  battle,  having  become  invisible,  made  an  oblation 
to  Pavaka  (Fire)  in  due  form,  on  the  sacrificial  ground.  When  he  was 
there  throwing  his  oblation  into  the  fire,  wearing  a  red  turban,  gar- 
ments, and  garland,  the  reverent  Rakshasas  brought  thither  sharp- 
edged  weapons,  logs  of  wood,  and  myrobalan,  blood-red  vestments,  and 
a  ladle  of  black  iron.  Having  heaped  the  fire  all  over  with  arrows, 
darts,  and  iron  maces,  and  having  drawn  blood  from  the  throat  of  a 
live  black  goat,  he  offered  it  as  an  oblation,  being  eager  for  battle.  At 
the  same  time  there  appeared  from  th»  brightly-burning  and  smokeless 
fire  omens  which  portended  victory.  Pavaka  himself,  rising,  with  his 
flame  sweeping  roiind  to  the  rignt,  and  luminous  as  refined  gold,  received 
the  oblation.  The*a  from  *;he  midst  of  the  fire  there  arose  a  magnificent 
golden  chariot,  drawn  by  four  lucky  horses  with  golden  head-ornaments; 
but  became  invisible,  while  glorious  and  lustrous  as  burning  fire.  Having 
satiated  the  sacrificial  fire,  with  the  Daityas,  Danavas,  and  Rakshasas, 
having  caused  a  benediction  (svasti}  to  be  pronounced,  and  been  blessed 
by  th*J  Brahmans,  [Indrajit*]  ascended  the  beautiful  "chariot,  moving 
invisibly,  drawn  by  self-directed  horses,  and  furnished  with  various 

WQtlpons 50.    A  golden  serpent,195   bright  as  the  rising  sun, 

and  adorned  with  lapis  lazuli,  formed  the  banner  of  Indrajit.  Having 
made  an  oblation  to  Fire  with  Rakshasa  texts,  he  then  spake,"  etc. 

195  See,  in  reference  to  this,  the  quotation  from  Signer  Gorresio  given  above  in  p.  412. 
VOL.  iv.  ,       27 


418  CEREMONY  PERFORMED  BY  INDRAJIT. 

The  ceremony  of  Indrajit  is  again  alluded  to  by  Yibhishana  in  vi. 
84,  14  ff.  (Bombay  ed.=vi.  63,  13.  of  Gorr.  ed.): 

Chaityam  nikumbhilam  adya  prdpya  homa^i  Icarishyati  \  Hutavdn 
upayato  hi  devair  api  sa-vdsavaih  \  durddharsho  bhavaty  eslia  sangrdme 

Rdvandtmajah  \   ....    16.    Sa-sainyds  tatra  aachhdmo  ydvit  tan  na 

i 

samapyate  |  .  .  .  .  23.  Samdpta-karmd  hi  sa  Rdkshasarshabho  bhavaty 
adrisyah  samare  surdsuraih  \  yuyutsatd  tena  samdpta-karmand  bhavet 
surdndm  api  samsayo  mahdn  \  "Having  to-day  resorted  to  the  sacri- 
ficial ground,  he  will  offer  £n  oblation  (homo).  "When  he  approaches 
after  making  this  offering,  this  son  of  Havana  is  invincible  by  gods 

and  Vasavas 16.  Let  us  go  thither  with  our  hosts  before  that 

ceremony  is  completed 23.  For  when  he  has  accomplished  his 

rite,196  that  prince  of  the  Rakshasas  becomes  invisible  by  either  gods 
or  Asuras  in  battle;  and  even  the  gods  would  hesitate  to  encounter 
him  if  he  desired  to  fight." 

In  the  following  section  Yibhishana  returns  to  the  subject  (vi.  85, 
12,  Bombay  ed.=vi.  64,  11  of  Gorr.): 

Tena  mrena  tapasd  vara-ddndt  Svayambhuvah,  \  astram  brahma-sirah 
prdptam  kdmagds  cha  turangamdh,  \  sa  esha  saha  sainyena  prdptah  kila 
nikumbhilam  I  yady  uttishthet  kritam  karma  hatdn  sarvdfhs  cha  viddhi 
nah  |  nikumbhilam  asamprdptam  alcritdgnim  cha  yo  ripuh  \  tvdm  dtatd- 
yinam  hanydt  Indra&atro  sa  te  badhah  \  "This  hero  has  obtained  through 
austerity,  and  by  the  gift  of  Svayambhu,  a  weapon  called  '  brahma- 
siras,'  and  horses  that  go  according  to  his  will.  He  with  his  army  has 
reached  the  sacrificial  ground.  If  he  rises  after  completing  his  cere- 
mony, you  may  regard  us  all  as  destroyed.  But  if  ajiy  foe  slays  thee, 
thou  cruel  tyrant  (Indrajit),  before  thou  hast  reached  that  ground,197 

196  It  is  related  in  the  Uttara  Kanda  30,  12  ff.,  that  after  his  victory  over  Tndra, 
Indrajit  asked,  and  obtained,  this  hoon  as  the  condition 'of  releasing  his  captive  foe. 
For  a  summary  of  the  story  of  Indra  and  Indrajit,  see  the  Appendix. 

197  Explained  by  the  commentator  as  nikumbhilam  tad-yfiga-bhumim  mahakafi- 
kshetram   tad-akhya-nyagrodha-mula-rupam  \     "  Thai  sacrificial  ground,  the  sacred 
precinct  of  the  great  Kali — viz.  the  root  of  the  nyagrodha  tree  W  called.'1'     This 
tree  is  mentioned  in  vi.  87,  2  ff.,  Bombay  ed.  (=vi  66,  2,  Gorr.  ed.) :  .  .  .  .  praviiya 
tu  mahad  vanam  \  adarxayata  tui-karma-Lakshmanaya    Vibhlshanah  \  wla-jlmnta- 
sankasam  nyagrodham  bhnttadarsanam  \  teju&w  Ravana-bhrata  Lakshmanaya  nyctve- 
dayat  \   ihopaharam   bhiitanam  'balavan   Ravanatmajah  \   upahritya   tatah  paUhat 
sangrhmam  abhivartate  \  adrityah  sarva-bhutanaih  tato  bhavati  Rakshasah  \  nihanti 
samare  satrun  badhnati  cha   sarotlamaih  \   tarn   apravishtam  nyagrodham  balinath 
Ravanatmajam  \  vidhuanisaya  sarair  d>p*air  ityadi  \ 


WHETHER  THE  RAKSHASAS  WORSHIPPED  MAHADEVA.    419 

and  kindled  the  fire,  this,  0  enemy  of  Indra,  is  the  manner  of  thy 
death,"  etc. 

It  is  related  in  the>  following  section  (86,  14,  f.,  Bombay  ed.  =  65, 
12  Gorr.)  that  he  rose  before  his  rite  had  been  completed : 

Svam  0wikam  vishannam  tu  drishtva  satrubhir  arditam  \  udatishthata 

•° 
durdharshah  sa  kartnany  ananushthite  \  vrikshandhaktirtid  nirgamyajdta- 

krodhah  sa  Ravatiih  \  ityadi  \  "Hearing  that  his  army  was  harassed  by 
their  enemies,  and  dispirited,  the  irresistible  (Rakshasa)  arose  while 
his  ceremony  was  unaccomplished.  Issuing  forth  from  the  gloom  of 
the  tree,  the  son  of  Havana,  incensed,  mounted  his  chariot,"  etc. 

Again,  in  a  passage  of  the  Sundara  Kanda,  or  Fifth  Book,  sect.  89, 
w.  22  ff.  (only  found  in  Gorresio's,  not  in  the  Bombay  ed.),  which 
forms  the  sequel  to  the  one  given  above,  p.  370,  Mahadeva  is  repre- 
sented as  receiving  Vibhishana  with  favour,  after  he  had  deserted  his 
brother  Havana.  Now  if  the  author  of  the  poem  had  intended  to 
represent  S'iva  as  an  especial  object  of  adoration  to  the  Rakshasas,  he 
might  have  been  expected  to  describe  this  deity  as  repaying  their 
worship  with  especial  favour  and  affection ;  but  it  is  inconsistent 
with  this  that  he  should  represent  S'iva  as  receiving  favourably  a 
deserter  from  the  Rakshasa  camp. 

There  is  a  section  (the  forty-first)  of  the  Yuddha  Kanda,  or  S^xth 
Book  (which,  however,  is  to  be  found  only  in  Gorresio's  ed.),  wherein 
Ravana  defies  Vishnu  at  great  length.  But  I  do  not  consider  this  as 
any  proof  that  the  poet  intended  to  attribute  to  the  speaker  any  especial 
hostility  to  Vishnu's  worship  (particularly  as  Indra,  S^iva,  and  Brahma 
are  also  slightingly  spoken  of*),  but  rather  as  a  demonstration  called 
forth  by  the  poetical  necessities  of  the  argument.  Even  while  the 
poet  represented  Rama  as  the  incarnation  of  Vishnu,  it  was  of  course 
natural  to  make  the  arrogant  Ravaua  defy  him.  The  fact  is,  that  the 
traits  ascribed  to  the  Rakshasas  in'the  Ramayana  must  be  regarded  as 
poetical  far  more  than  historical.  The  poet  assigns  to  his  personages 
such  sharacteristics  as  he  considered  at  the  moment  *to  be  most  con- 
ducive to  the  interest,  and  effective  with  a  view  to  the  action,  of  his 
pqt»m.  These  characteristics  are  sometimes  absolutely  contradictory, 
as  when  Havana  is  described  both  as  an  observer  of  the  Vedas  and  at 
the  same  time  as  a  persecutor  of  Brahmans  arid  polluter  of  their 
sacrifices.  I  do  not  therefore  see  that  the  Ramayana  supplies  any 


420  PASSAGE  OF  THE  KEN  A  UPANISHAD 

sufficient  grounds  for  regarding  the  non-Arian  tribes  of  Southern  India 
as  being  especially  addicted  to  the  worship  of  S'iva.198 

*    * 
SECT.  VIII. — The  earlier  and  later  representations  of   Uind,  the 

wife  of  Siva. 

We  have  already  seen  (p.  267)  that  in  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita  (3,  57) 
Ambika,  who  at  a  later  period  is  identified  with  the  vife  of  Eudra,  is 
declared  to  be  his  sister.199  '  r 

The  earliest  work,  as  far  afe>  I  am  aware,  in  which  the  name  of  TJma 
occurs,  is  the  Talavakara,  or  Kena  Upanishad.  In  the  third  section  of 
that  Treatise  (see  Dr.  Koer's  translation  in  the  Bibliotheca  Indica, 
vol.  xv.,  p.  83  ff.)  it  is  mentioned  that  on  one  occasion  Brahma  gained 
a  victory  for  the  gods.  As,  however,  they  were  disposed  to  ascribe  the 
credit  of  their  success  to  themselves,  Brahma  appeared  for  the  purpose 
of  disabusing  them  of  their  mistake.  The  gods  did  not  kuow  him, 
and  commissioned  first  Agni,  and  then  Vayu,  to  ascertain  what  this 
apparition  was.  When,  in  answer  to  Brahma's  inquiry,  these  two  gods 
represented  themselves,  the  one  as  having  the  power  to  burn,  and  the 
other  as  able  to  blow  away,  anything  whatever,  he  desired  them  to 
burn  and  to  blow  away,  respectively,  a  blade  of  grass ;  but  they  were 
una'ole  to  do  this,  and  returned  without  ascertaining  who  he  was. 
Indra  was  then  commissioned  (Kena  Up.  iii.  11,  12;  and  iv.  1,  2): 

198  It  is  also  related  in  the  Uttara  Kanda  of  the  Ramayana  (sections  4-8,  of  which 
I  shall  give  the  substance  in  the  Appendix)  that  a  liakshasa  named  Sukes'a  had 
formerly  received  a  boon  from  Mahadeva  and  Parvati,  and  that  his  three  sons,  the 
lords  of  Lanka,  had  made  an  attack  upon  the  gods,  but  had  been  driven  back  and 
defeated  by  Yislmu,  and  compelled  to  take  refuge  in  Patala.     put  neither  does  this, 
nor  even  the  Linga-worship  attributed  to  Rav<ma  in  the  Ut-ara  Kanda  31,  42  f., 
suffice  to  prove  any  special  adoration  of  S'iva  among  the  southern  races  more  than 
among  the  northern. 

199  ItodasT  is  his  wife  according  to  the  Nirukta  xi^49;   and  xii.   46;   Rodasi 
lindrasya  paten.     Sayana,  however,  on  R'.V.  i.  167,  4  and  5,  says  that  she  is  the 
wife  of  the  Maruts.     On  v.  4  his  words  are :    Tasya  (Rudrasya}  str~i  Rodast  iti 
ktchid  ahuh  \  apare  tu  Maru  am  nfrii,o  Rodas~>  iti  ncaradheyam  ity  ahuh  \  ayam  eva 
pakxho  yuktah  uttaratra  evam  vyavaharat  \     "  Some  say  RodasL  is  Rudr&'s  wife. 
Others  say  Rodasi  is  the  name  of  the  wife  of  the  M  units.     This  is '[he  correct  view, 
from  the  word  being  so  applied  afterwards"  (in  the  next  verse).     On  verse  5  Sayana 
says:    Rodasi  Marut-patm  vidyud  va.     "  RodasT  is   the  wife   of  the   Maruts, -or 
Lightning."     In  this  verse  she"1  receives  the  epithet  of  vishita-stuka,  "  having  dis- 
hevellfd  hair,"  and  is  said  to  seek  the  society  of  the  Maruts  (Joshad  yad  nn  asurya 
sachad/iyai   vishita-stuka   Rodasi  iiritimnah}.     I    doubt  if  she   is   much,  if  at  all, 
noticed  in  the  later  literature.     See  the  £l'th  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  148  and  345. 


IN  WHICH  UMA  HAIMAVATl  IS  MENTIONED.  421 

Atha  Ingram  abruvan  " Maghavann  etad  vijdrilhi  Mm  etad  yalcsham"  iti\ 
"tathd"  iti  tad  abhyadravat  tasmfy  tirodadhe  \  12.  Sa  tasminn  eva 
dkuse  striyam  djagdmU  bahu  iolhamdndm  Umam  Haimavatlm  \  tarn  ha 
uvacha  him  etad  yalcsham  iti  \  iv.,  1 .  Sd  Brahma  iti  ha  uvacha  Brah- 
mano  vai  otad-vijaye  mahlyadhvam  iti  \ttato  ha  eva  viddnchakdra  Brahmeti  \ 
"  They  then  said  to  Indra,  '  Haghavan,  ascertain  what  this  apparition 
is.'  He  replied* '  So  he  it ; '  and  approached  that  being,  who  vanished 
from  him.  In  that  s&y  he  came  to  a  woman  who  was  very  resplendent, 
Urna  Haimavati.  To  her  he  said,  'Whit  is  this  apparition?'  She 
said,  'It  is  Brahma.  In  this  victory  of  Brahma,  exult.'  By  this  he 
knew  that  it  was  Brahma."  20° 

In  his  remarks201  on  this  passage  of  the  Kena  Upanishad  (Ind.  Stud, 
ii.  186  ff.),  Professor  Weber  supplies  an  interesting  and  ingenious  con- 
tribution to  the  mythological  history  of  Uma.  He  says:  "The 
representation  in  sections  3  and  4  indicates  that  the  Kena  Upanishad 
was  produced  at  a  time  when, — in  place  of  the  three  principal  gods, 
Agni,  Vayu,  and  Surya,202  who  had  become  developed  into  the  conjoint 
representatives  of  the  divine  principle  on  earth,  in  the  atmosphere, 
and  in  heaven, — Agni,  Yayu,  and  Indra  were  regarded  as  such.  These 
are  properly  only  two,  since  Indra  is  essentially  identical  with  Vayu. 
Though  I  have  found  numerous  examples  of  the  first  triad,  especially 
in  the  two  Yajur-vedas,  I  have  noticed  only  one  other  of  the  second 
triad,  which  is  properly  only  a  duad,  viz.  in  the  Pvik-text  of  the 
Purusha  Sukta  (R.V.  x.  99,  13).  Not  am  I  able  to  give  a  satisfactory 

zno  This  is  explained  by  the  commgntator :  Tasya  Indrasya  yalcshe  bhaktim  buddhva 
Vidya  Uma-rupini prridurabhut  strl-rupa  \  sa  Indras  tarn  Umam  baJiu  sobhamanam 
sarveshdm  hi  sobhaiflananam  gobhanatamam  Vidyam  tada  "bahu  sobhamana"  iti 
viseshanam  upapannam  bhavati  \  Haimavatlm  hema-Tcritabharanavatlm  iva  bahu 
sobhamanam  ity  arthah  \  athava  Uma  eva  Himavato  duhita  Haimavati  nityam  eva 
sarvajmna  Isvarena  &aha*vartate  iti  jnatum  samartha  iti  kritva  tarn  uptijayama 
Indras  tarn  ha  Umam  kila  uvacha  paprachha  Mm  etad  darsayitva  tirobhutam  yalcsham  \ 
"  Knowing  Indra's  devotion  to  this  apparition,  Knowledge,  in  the  form  of  a  woman, 
Uma,  appeared.  Indra  [cams]  to.  her  who  was  very  resplendent,  to  Knowledge  who 
is  the  most  resptehdent  of  all  the  resplendent  beings,  and  whose  epithet  '  very  re- 
splendent '  is  then  established.  '  Haimavati '  means  that  she  was  very  resplendent 
like%  a  female  with  ornaments  made  of  gold.  Or,  it  was  Uma  Haimavati,  the  daughter 
ofHimavat,  who  from  continually  dwelling  with  the  omniscient  Ts'vara  (Mahadeva) 
is  able  to  know.  "With  this  belief  Indra  approached  Uma,  and  said  to  her,  '  What 
is  this  apparition  which  appeared  and  vanished  ? ' " 

201  Already  translated  by  Dr.  Roer  (Bibl.  Ind.  xv.  84  fit). 

203  See  above,  pp.  163  and  298.  » 


422  PROFESSOR  ALBRECHT  WEBER'S 

explanation  of  it.  On  the  other  hand,  the  totality  of  the  divine  was 
already  comprehended  in  Brahmanr '(neuter),  and  it  is  the  object  of  the 
legend  here  to  make  clear  and  to  enforce  the  supremacy  of  Brahma  over 
all  temporary  divine  manifestations,  end  even  over  the  triad  of  such. 

"But  how  shall  we  explain  tLe  pofition  of  Uma  Haimavati,  who 
comes  forward  as  mediatrix  between  the  eternal  Brahman  and  the  gods? 
According  to  S'ankara,  she  is  Vidya  (knowledge)  wlio  appears  Uma- 
rupim  (in  the  form  of  Uma)  to  Indra.  The  same  explanation  is  found 
in  Sayana,  who  (on  Taitt.  Ar.  x.  1,  150,  p.  787  of  the  text  in  the 
Bibliotheca  Indica),  when  interpreting  the  word  soma,  cites  this  pas- 
sage, and  remarks :  Himavat-putrydh  Gaurydh  brahma-vidydbhimdni- 
rupatndd  Gauri-vdchaJcah  Umd-sabdo  brahma-vidydm  upalak&hayati  \ 
atah  eva  Talavalcdropanishadi  brahma-vidyd-murti-prastdve  brahma- 
vidyd-murtih  pathyate  "  bahu  sobhamdndm  Umdm  Haimavatlih  tdm  Jta 
uvdchan  iti  |  tad-vishayah  Paramdtmd*03  Umayd  saha  vartamdnatvdt 
Sornah  \  ( [Since  Graurl,  the  daughter  of  Himavat,  is  the  impersona- 
tion of  divine  knowledge,  the  word  TJma,  which  denotes  Grauri,  in- 
dicates divine  knowledge.  Hence  in  the  Talavakara  Upanishad,  in 
the  passage  on  the  impersonation  of  divine  knowledge,  the  impersona- 
tion, of  divine  knowledge  is  introduced  in  these  words:  "He  said  to 
the  very  resplendent  Uma  Haimavati.  The  supreme  Spirit,  who  is 
the  object  of  this  Divine  Knowledge,  from  his  existing  together 
with  Uma,  is  called  Soma  (i.e.  Sa-\-Uma."^ ' zoi  And  again  in  the 
same  commentary  on  Anuvaka  48,  it  is  said:  Utnd  brahma-vidyd 
tayd  saha  vartamdna  Soma  paramdiman  \  'Uma  is  divine  know- 
ledge: thou  who  existest  with  her,  0  Soma,  supreme  spirit,'  etc. 
Further  in  the  same  commentary  on  Anuvaka  18,  in  explanation 
of  the  term  Arnbika-pataye,  we  have  the  words :  Ambika  jaganmdtd 
Pdrvatl  tasydh  bhartre  \  f  Ambika  is  Parvati,  the  mother  of  the 
world, — to  her  husband,'  etc,;  and  the  word  Umupataye  (which  stands 
in  the  Dravida,  but  not  in  the  Andhra,  text  of  the  Taitt.  Ar.)  is 
thus  interpreted:  Tasydh  eva  Irahma-vidydtmako  deha'ft\T7md-sdbdeno- 
cJiyate  tasydh,  svdmine  \  'Her  (Ambika's)  body,  consisting  of  divine 

knowledge,  is  designated  by  the  word  Uma — to  her  (Uma's)  husband,' 
r 

203  [The  word  Paramatma  is  not  in  the  text  as  given  by  Weber.] 

204  ^he  same  explanation  of  Soma  is  given  in  the  Atharvas'iras  Upanishad.    See 
above,  p.  302.] 


REMARKS  ON  UMA  HAIMAVATI.  423 

etc.805  This  last  passage  is  the  only  one  in  the  circle  of  the  Vedic 
writings  in  which — with  the  exception  of  that  in  the  Kena  Upanishad 
— I  have  as  yet  direcfcly.met  with  the  name  Uma ;  for  the  expression 
'  Uma-sahaya '  in  the  Kaivalya  Upanishad  (see  above,  p.  363)  no 
longer  belongs  to  the  Vedic  period;  and  further,  though  the  com- 
mentaries in  other  places  also206  explain  'soma'  by  'Umaya  sahita,' 
'  accompanied  by  Uma '  (as  Sayana  has  done  in  the  passage  above 
cited),  such  an  interpretation  is  just  as  groundless  as  in  the  texts 
commented  on  by  Sayana,  where  the  wurd  signifies  simply  the  Soma- 
libation.  From  the  considerations  just  stated,  therefore  (i.e.  partly 
from,  the  unanimity  of  the  commentaries,  and  partly  from  the  very 
position  which  Uraa  here  assumes  in  the  Kena  Upanishad),  the  signifi- 
cation of  this  word  might  seem  to  be  fixed  with  tolerable  certainty  as 
denoting  ' Brahma- vidy a,'  'divine  knowledge,'  and  Uma  might  appear 
to  be  directly  related  to  Sarasvatl,  the  divine  word,  and  we  might  even 
be  tempted  to  bring  her  into  etymological  connexion  with  the  sacred 
word  'om.'  There  are,  however,  some  additional  points  which  seem 
to  place  the  original  signification  of  Uma  in  quite  a  different  light. 
First  of  all,  why  is  she  called  Haimavati  ?  "What  has  she  to  do  with 
the  Himavat  ?  Is  it  that  the  Brahma- vidya  (divine  knowledge)  came 
originally  from  the  Himavat  to  the  Arians  dwelling  in  Hadhyatlesa 
(the  central  region  of  Hindustan)  ?  "We  have  learnt  from  the  Kaushi- 
takl  Brahmana  (Ind.  Stud.  i.  153)  that  the  north  of  India  was  dis- 
tinguished by  greater  purity  of  speech,  and  that  students  travelled 
thither  to  learn  the  language  (vdcham  sikshitum},  and  on  their  return 
thence  enjoyed  great  consideration  and  authority.  Now  it  would  have 
been  quite  natuftl  if  thjs  state  of  things  had  not  been  confined  to 
language,  but  had  become  extended  to  speculation  also,  and  if  the 
knowledge  of  the  on(^  eternal  Brahma,  had  been  sooner  attained  in 
the  peaceful  valleys  of  the  Himalaya  than  was  possible  for  men  living 

265  [The  entire  text  of  the  A.nuvaka,  and  the  part  of  its  commentary  which  refers  to 
the  teilns  A.mbib*pataye  and  UnRipataye,  as  given  in  the  Bibl.  Indica,  are  as  follows : 
Text :  Namo  hiranyabahave  hiranyavarnaya  hiranyarupaya  hiranyapataye  Ambika- 
patpye  Umapataye  pasupataye  namo  namah  \  Comm. :  Ambika  jagamnata  Parvatt  \ 
tctsyah  pataye  bhartre  \  tasyah  eva  Ambikayah  brahmct-vidyatmako  dehah  Uma- 
sabdena  uchyate\tadrisyah  Umayah pataye svamine*Rnd>-uya punah punah  namaskaro 
'stu.] 

206  e.g.  Mahldhara  on  Vaj.  S.  16,  39,  and  Bhatta  Bhuskara  Mis'ra  on  the  corre- 
sponding passage  of  the  Taitt.  Sanhitu.  » 


424  PROFESSOR  WEBER'S  REMARKS  ON  UMA, 

in  Madhyadesa,  where  their  minds  were  more  occupied  by  the  practical 
concerns  of  life.  Such  a  view  of  Uma  Haimavati  appears  to  me, 
however,  to  be  very  hazardous.  For — not  to  say  that  in  our  ex- 
planations of  the  ancient  Indian  deities  we  act  wisely  when  we  attach 
greater  importance  to  the  physical  tnan  to  the  s'peculative  element — 
we  are  by  no  means  certain  that  Uma  actually  does  signify  divine  know- 
ledge (brahma-vidya]\  and* moreover,  her  subsequent  position  as  Rudra's 
wife  (in  the  Taitt.  Ar.),  and  so  S'iva's,  would  thus  be  quite  inexplicable. 
Now  there  is  among  the  epithets  of  this  latter  goddess  a  similar  one, 
vi£.  Parvati,  which  would  lead  us  in  interpreting  the  word  Haimavati, 
to  place  the  emphasis  not  upon  the  Himavat,  but  upon  the  mountain 
(parvata):  and  with  this  I  might  connect  the  epithets  of  Kudra  which 
we  h£ve  learnt  from  the 'S'atarudriya  (see  above,  p.  322),  Girisa, 
Girisanta,  Girisaya,  Giritra,  in  which  we  recognize  the  germ  of  the 
conception  of  S'iva's  dwelling  on  Kailasa.  He  is  the  tempect,  which 
rages  in  the  mountains,  and  his  wife  is  therefore  properly  called  Par- 
vati, Haimavati,  'the  mountaineer,'  'the  daughter  of  Himavat.'  At  the 
same  time  it  is  not  clear  what  we  have  to  understand  by  his  wife;207 
and  further  she  is,  perhaps,  originally  not  his  wife,  but  his  sister,  for 
Uma  and  Ambika  are  at  a  later  period  evidently  identical,  and  Ambika 
is  Rvidra's  sister  (Ind.  Stud.  i.  183).208  Besides,  this  identification  of 
Uma  with  Ambika  leads  us  to  a  new  etymology  of  the  former.  For  as 

207  Indian  mythology,  however,  assigns  wives  to  the  gods,  without  always,  or  even 
generally,  ascribing  to  the  wives  any  specific  cosmical  function.     Weber  adds  in  a 
note :  "  Does  she  perhaps  denote  the  streams  and  torrents,  poured  forth  by  Rudra, 
the  Storm,  from  the  mountains  and  clouds  ?  and  does  the  name  Ambika  stand  in 
direct  relation  thereto  ?     In  the  same  way  Sarasvati  also,  the  goddess  of  streams  and 
of  speech,  is  called  Ambitama,  is  addressed  with  the  word  '  Amka,'  and  is  said  to  be 
'  produced  on  the  highest  peak  on  the  mountain  top '  (uttame  sikhare  jata  parvata- 
murdhant).     According  to  this  view,  Uma  and  Sarasvati,  Ambika  and  Ambitama, 
Parvati  and  the  parvata-murdhanijata,  would  perhaps  have  been  originally  identical, 
and  have  only  become  gradually  separated,  i'a  such  a  way  that  in  the  one  the  violent 
and  destructive  energy  of  nature  had  become  concentrated,  and  in  the  other  the 
harmonious  music  of  the  streaming  waters  ?    And  shovld  we  thus  have  to  seek  in 
the  Uma  of  the  Ken'tt  TJpanishad  and,  on  the  other  Land,  in  the  Varada  of  thd-Taitt. 
Ar.  two  examples  of  the  original  identity  of  both  ?    Kuhn,  at  least'  as  he  has  in- 
formed me,  holds  Ambika  to  be  decidedly  identical  with  Sarasvati."     [Is  not  a 
certain  confirmation  of  this  supposed  original  connexion  of  Uma  and  Sarasvati  to  be 
found  in  the  fact  that  in  the  mythology  of  the  Ramayana  i.  36,  13  (quoted  below 
in  p.  430)  Uma  is  the  younger,  while  the  river  Ganga  is  the  elder  daughter  of 
Himavat?— J.M.] 

208  See  above,  p.  321. 


AND  MAHiDEVA'S  SPOUSE  UNDER  OTHER  NAMES.         425 

Ambika,  'mother,'  appears  to  be  merely  an  euphemistic  and  flattering 
epithet,  employed  to  propitiate  the  ^cruel  goddess  (see  Mahidhara  on 
Vaj.  S.  3,  57, 209 — just  «s. Rudra  was  called  S'iva),  in  the  same  way  it 
appears  that  we  must  derive  Uma  from  the  root  'u,'  'av,'  'to  protect.' 
It  is  true,that  a  final  vowel  before  Jma'  commonly  takes  'guna,'  or 
is  lengthened,  but  the  words  '  sima '  and  '  hima '  show  that  this  is 
not  necessary,  anl  the  name  of  Ruma  is  perhaps  (unless  we  derive  it 
from  'ram')  a  perfectly  analogous  formation.  It  certainly  remains 
a  mystery  how  we  are  to  conceive  the  druel  wife  of  Rudra  coming 
forward  here  in  the  Kena  Upanishad  as  the  mediatrix  between  the 
supreme  Brahma  and  Indra,  for  on  that  supposition  this  Upanishad 
would  have  to  be  referred  to  a  period  when  her  husband,  Rudra,  was 
regarded  as  the  highest  god,  the  Isvara,  and  thus  also  as  Brahma ;  i.e. 
it  would  belong  to  the  period  of  some  S'aiva  sect.  But  since  this 
remains  questionable  and  improbable,  we  must  first  of  all  hold  to  the 
view  that  the  conception  entertained  by  the  commentators  of  Uma  as 
representing  '  divine  knowledge '  rests  solely  upon  this  passage  of  the 
Kena  IJpanishad,  unless  indeed  the  original  identity  of  Uma  with 
Sarasvati,  which  in  the  last  note  was  regarded  as  possible,  is  here 
again  visible. 

"I  consider  the  present  opportunity  a  favourable  one  for  speaking 
of  some  other  names  of  S'iva's  spouse.  As  in  S'iva,  first  of  all  two 
gods,  Agni  and  Rudra,  are  combined,  so  too  his  wife  is  to  be  regarded 
as  a  compound  of  several  divine  forms,21?  and  this  becomes  quite  evident 
if  we  look  over  the  mass  of  her  epithets.  While  one  set  of  these,  as 
Uma,  Ambika,  Parvati,  HaimavStI,  belong  to  the  wife  of  Rudra,  others, 
as  Kali,  Karall  (s(3fe  Ind.  §tud.  i.  287)  carry  us  back  to  the  wife  of 
Agni,  while  Gauri  and  others  perhaps  refer  to  Nirriti,  the  goddess  of 

all  evil.  , 

» 

209  [The  Words  of  Mahidhara  here  referred  to  are :  To  'yam  Rudrakhyah  kruro 
devas  tasya  virodhinam  hantum  ichha  bhavati  tada  anaya  bhaginya  Jcruradevataya 
sadhanabjiutaya  tajy  hinasti  \  "This* cruel  god  called  Rudra  desires'to  slay  his  enemy. 
Then  by  the  instmmentality  of  this  sister,  a  cruel  goddess,  he  destroys  him."  Then 
follow  the  words  quoted  above  in  p.  321,  note  40,  at  the  end.] 

2io»«  The  most  remarkable  instance  of  this  is  to  be  found  in  Mahabharata  iv.  178ff., 
in  the  hymn  of  Yudhishthira  to  Durgu,  where  he  call^her  Yasoda,  Krishna,  'born  in 
the  cowherd  family  of  Nanda,'  'sister  of  Vasudeva,'  'enemy  of  Kansa,'  and  'having 
the  same  features  as  Sankarshana,'  etc.,  etc.  However  late  the  date  of  this  hymn 
may  be,  it  is  still  in  the  highest  degree  remarkable." 


426  PROFESSOR  WEBER'S  REMARKS  ON  THE 

"The  Tenth  Book  of  the  Taittiriya  Aranyaka,  in  which  she  is 
several  times  invoked  under  different  names,  is  particularly  important 
for  a  knowledge  of  her  character.  The  principal  passage  in  which 
these  invocations  occur  has  been  already  noticed  above  (Ind.  Stud.  i. 
pp.  75  and  228 2U).  It  is,  like,  the ( prayers  which  precede  it,  an 
imitation  of  the  Gayatrl,  and  runs  thus*:  Katyayanaya  vidmahe 
Kanyaltumari™  dhimahi  \  tan  no  Durgih  prachodaydt  \  ['We  think 
on  Katyayana  and  meditate  on  Kanyakumari  J'  may  Durgi  advance 
us.'] 

.  .  .  "Now  it  is  certainly  difficult  grammatically  to  find  iu  this 
text  the  sense  which  Sayana  puts  into  it,213  and  which  must  have  been 
traditionally  connected  with  it,  as  that  sense  is  the  basis  of  the  modifi- 
cation of  the  passage  as  found  in  the  Atharva  collection  of  Upanishads. 

211  In  the  first  of  these  passages  (Ind.  Stud.  i.  75)  the  author  remaiks  that  the 
Narayanlya  Upanishad  (the  part  of  the  Taitt.  Ar.  in  which  the  verse  in  question 
occurs)  is  also  found  among  the  Upanishads  of  the  Atharva-veda,  "  but  with  remark  - 
ahle  variations,  which  indicate  a  later  period.     Thus  the  words  quoted  above  accord- 
ing to  the  reading  in  the  Taitt.  Ar.,  viz.  Katyayanaya  vidmahe  Kanyakumarim 
dhtmahi  tan  no  Durgih  prachodayat,  are,  in  the  Upanishad  as  it  is  given  in  the 
Atharva  collection,  changed  into  Katyayanayai  vidmahe  KanyaJcumarim  dhtmahi 
tan  no  Durga  prachodayat  \    This  agrees  with  the  sense  which  Sayana,  in  his  inter- 
pretation, puts  on  the  words."     In  the  passage  of  the  Linga  Pur5.ua  ii.  48,  of  which 
the  commencement  is  given  in  the  third  volume  of  this  work,  p.  263  f.,  this  invocation 
of  Durga  occurs  as  follows  in  verse  26 :    Katyayanyai  vidmahe  Kanyakumaryai 
dhimahi  tan  no  Durga,  prachodayat  \ 

212  The  author  observes  here  that  in  Ind.  Stud.  i.  75,  he  had  incorrectly  given 
Kanyakumarim  as  the  proper  reading.     The  text  in  the  Bibl.   Ind.,  p.  770,  has 
Kanyakumarl^ 

213  Sayana' s  interpretation,  as  given  by  "Weber  i.  228,  note,  a.nd  here,  is  as  follows : 
Pasehad  Durga-gayatri\  Hema-prakhyam  indu-khaTjdanka-mffiilim  \-antamaulim,  in 
Bibl.  Ind.]  ity  agama-prasiddha-murti-dharam  [-rim,  B.  I.]  Durgam  prarthayate 
"  Katyayanaya "  iti  \  krittim  vaste  iti  Katyo  [Kartyo,  B.  I.]  Budrah  \    .  .  .  .  sa 
eva  ayanam  adhisthanam  yasyah  sa  Katyayam  \_Kartyafanl,  B.  I.]  Athava  Katasya 
rishi-viseshasya  apatyaih  Katyah  \    .  .  .  .'  ICutsilam  anishtham  niarayati  iti  kumarl 
Ttanya   dipyamana   chasau  kumarl  cha   Eanyakumarl  \  Durgih  Durga,  \   lingadi- 
vyatyayah  savatra  chhandaso  drashtavyah  \    [There  fK:e  other  variations  in  the  text 
as  given  in  the  Bibl.  Ind.]  .  .  .  .  "  Then  follows  Durga's  gayatrl.     In  I'ne  words 
'Katyanaya,'  etc.,  he  supplicates  Durga,  bearing  the  form  celebrated  in  the  s'iistras 
'  as  bright  as  gold,  and  having  for  a  diadem  the  ornament  of  a  section  of  the  moon.' 

Katya  is  he  who  wears  a  skin,  Rudra and  Katyayam  is  she  whose  path, 

support,  is  Katya.     Or,  Katy£  is  the  offspring  of  Kata,  a  particular  rishi 

Kumari  is  she  who  destroys  what  is  bad,  undesirable.     She  who  is  both  Kanya, 
'  shining,'  and  Kumari,  is  Kanyakumari.     Durgi  is  DurgiL     Diversity  in  forms  is  to 
be  seen  everywhere  in  the  Vedas." 


NAMES  AND  CHARACTER  OF  MAHADEVA'S  SPOUSE.         427 

All  the  other  gods  who  are  invoked  are  male — viz.  Rudra,  Mahadeva, 
Danti,  Nandi,  Shanmukha,  Garudrj,  Brahman,  Vishnu,  Narasinha, 
Aditya,  Agni ;  and  it  Imist  therefore  surprise  us  if  we  are  to  regard 
the  twelfth  deity  as  feminine,  especially  as  the  form  is  masculine.  On 
the  other  kand,  the  sense  of  the,worc^  seems  to  compel  us  to  adopt  the 
traditional  explanation.  . ' .  .  .  Moreover,  Kjityayam,  Kanyakumari, 
and  Durga,  are  aiVeady  well  known  to  us  as  names  of  S'iva's  consort: 
and,  indeed,  they  all  appear  to  carry  us  back  to  the  flame  of  fire.  It 
is  true  that  as  regards  Katyayam  this  is  somewhat  difficult;  though 
when  we  consider  the  great  importance  of  the  Katya  family  in  refer- 
ence to  the  sacrificial  system  of  the  Brahmans,  it  does  not  seem  very 
improbable  that  a  particular  kind  of  fire,  which  perhaps  was  introduced 
by  one  of  the  Katyas,  was  called  after  him,  and  that  this  name  was 
then  associated  with  Kali,  Karali,  and  Durga,  which  are  originally 
mere  appellations  of  fire.  Kanyakumari,  or  '  the  maidenly,'  is  a  very 
fitting  epithet  of  the  holy,  pure,  sacrificial  flame;  and  even  at  the 
time  of  the  Periplus,  i.e.  of  Pliny,  we  find  her  worship  extended  to 
the  southernmost  point  of  India,  to  the  Cape  which  was  then,  as  now, 
called  after  her  Cape  Comorin :  but  does  it  not  appear  that  she  was 
then  no  longer  worshipped  as  the  sacrificial  flame,  but  as  the  wife  of 
S'iva  himself  (whose  name  Nilakantha  Lassen  [Ind.  Ant.  i.  194] 
finds  rendered  in  the  Ne\/cik8a  of  the  Periplus)  ?  The  hymn  to  Agni 
in  the  second  anuvaka  of  the  Taittirlya  Aranyaka  (Andhra  re- 
cension) seems  pretty  decisive  in  favour  of  our  connecting  Durga 
with  the  sacrificial  fire.  It  is  there  said214  in  the  second  verse 
[Bibl.  Ind.,  p.  788]:  Tarn  agnivarnum  tapasa  jvalantim  vairo-chanlm 
karma-phaleshu  jushtdm  ]•  Durgdm  devlm  saranam  aham  prapadye 
sutarasi  tarase  namah  \  ['I  seek  as  my  refuge  the  goddess  Durga, 
who  is  of  the  colour  of  fire,  burning  with  austerity  (or  heat),  daughter 
of  the  sun  (or  of  fire),  who  is  sought  after  for  the  reward  of  rites : 
adoration  be  to  thy  energy,  0  impetuous  [goddess].']  The  five  fol- 
lowing'verses  repeat  (as  does  also  the  Durga-stava  in  the  Parisishta) 

the  same  thought,  which  is  also  expressed  in  R.V.  i.  99,215  that  Agni 
» 

zi'i  «  This  verse  is  also  found  in  the  Durga-stava  of  the  Ratriparisishta  between 
the  fourteenth  and  fifteenth  divisions  of  the  seventh  section  of  the  eighth  Ashtaka  of 
the  R.V."  (i.e.  between  Mandala  x.  127  and  128).  See  note  in  the  Appendix. 

215  This  verse  is  as  follows :  Jatavedase  sunavama  somam  aratlyato  nidahati  vedah  \ 
sa  nah  par  shad  ati  durguni  visva  naveva  sind?tum  duritu  'ti  Agnih  \ 


428  PROFESSOR  WEBER'S  REMARKS'  CONTINUED. 

would  help  the  suppliant  over  all  'durga'  and  'durita'  (difficulties  and 
evils).  Verse  second  could  certainly  he  understood  as  if  the  "wor- 
shipper turned  to  the  personified  Durgati  (Evil)  herself,  and  sought 
her  protection,  so  that  thus  Durga  .would  have  arisen  out  of  Nirriti. 
But  it  appears  to  me  better  to  understand  the  passage  of  the  violent 
flame  of  the  fire,  which,  like  the  fire  itself,  delivers,  atones,  and  frees 
from  all  'durga'  and  'durita,'  is  a  'durga,'  a  protecting  fortress,  against 
them ;  so  that  this  name  would  belong  to  the  bame  class  as  Ambika, 
Siva,  lima.  If  at  a  later  period  Durga  decidedly  appears  to  have 
taken  the  place  of  the  evil  goddess  Nirriti,  this  is  no  proof  that  the 
case  was  so  from  the  beginning,  but  only  shows  that  the  original 
signification  had  been  lost;  which  is  in  so  far  quite  natural,  as  the 
consort  of  S'iva  bore  a  terrific  character,  both  from  her  connexion  with 
Rudra  and  also  with  Agni  (compare  Karali). 

"The  last  name  of  S'iva's  consort  which  I  find  in  the  Taitill  Ar.  x.  is 
Varada,  in  anuvakas  26  and  30.  It  is  true  that  there  it  appears  rather 
to  be  the  name  of  Sarasvati,  not  of  Durga,  when  it  is  said:  Aydtw 
varadd  devl  aJcsharam  brahma-sammitam  \  gdyatrim  \_gdyatrl,  Bibl.  Ind.] 
chhandasdm  mdtd  idam  brahma  jushasva  me  \  ....  sarvavarne  mahd- 
devi  sandhyd-vidye  Sarasvati  \ 216  But  the  words  in  anuv.  30  are  not 
so  clear:  Uttame  sikharejdtd  bhumydm  parvata-murdhani\  Irdhmanelhyo 
'bhyanujndtd  gachha  devi  yathdsukham  \  stuto  (  =  stuta  w)  may  a  varadd 
veda-mdtd.  prachodayanti  pavane  dvijdtd,211  etc. ;  where  especially  the 
first  strophe  reminds  us  of  Pa?vati  and  Haimavati,  and  one  does  not 
rightly  comprehend  how  Sarasvati  obtains  such  an  epithet  (unless  we 
are  to  understand  the  waters  streaming  from  the  hiljs,  since  Sarasvati 
is,  as  is  well  known,  at  once  a  river  goddess  .-and  thergoddess  of  speech). 
In  the  same  way  the  names  Mahadevi  and  Sandhyavidya  (see  "Wilson 
under  Sandhya)  belong  at  a  later  period  exclusively  to  the  consort 

216  [The  sense  of  these  words,  according  to  the  reading  in  the  Bibl.  Ind.,  is:  "May 
the  boon-bestowing  goddess  (or  the  goddess  Varada)  conie :  do  thou,  the  mother  of  the 
Vedas,  the  letter  equivalent  to  the  Veda,  the  giyatrT,  receive  wth  favour-  this  my 
prayer  ...  0  thou  who  hast  all  letters,  great  goddess,  Twilight-science,  Sarasvati." 
The  latter  portion  of  this  quotation  is  not  found  in  the  text  in  the  Bibl.  Ind.] 

217  [The  sense  is :  "  Born  on  the  highest  peak,  on  the  earth,  on  the  summit  of « the 
mountain,  dismissed  from  the  Tfrahmans,  go,  goddess,  wherever  thou  wilt.    Praised 
by  me,  the  boon-bestowing  goddess,  the  mother  of  the  Veda,  twice  born  in  the  air, 
stimulating  us,"  etc.     The  latter  part  of  this  quotation  does  not  occur  in  the  text  as 
given  in  the  Bibl.  Ind.] 


WEBER'S  COMMENT  ON  PASSAGE  OF  MUNDAKA  UP.        429 

of  S'iva.  The  other  names,  however,  'sarva-varna,'  '  chhandasam 
mata/  '  veda-mata,'  and  finally  'jSarasvati '  itself,  conduct  us  to 
Sarasvati ;  and  so  doeS  also  the  liturgical  usage,  and  the  sense  itself 
of  anuvakas  26—30.  Thus  there  o,nly  remains  to  us  the  possibility  of 
assuming  kere  a  blending  (and  so  a  re/niniscence  of  the  possible  original 
identity)  of  both  goddesses' ;  as  we  may  perhaps  also  assume  in  the  case 
of  Uma  Haimavati  in  the  Kena  TJpanishad,  agreeably  to  the  conjecture 
intimated  above,  p.  18*9"  (see  p.  424,  note  207,  above). 

Two  of  the  names  alluded  to  in  the  above  extract  from  the  Indische 
Studien,  which  were  afterwards  applied  to  the  consort  of  S'iva,  viz. 
Kali  and  Karall,  occur  in  a  passage  of  another  of  the  Upanishads  (the 
Mundaka  i.  2,  4),  where  they  are  appellations  of  two  of  the  differ- 
ent tongues  of  fire :  Kail  Karali  cha  Manojava  cha  Sulohita  yd  cha 
Sudhumravarna  \  Sphulinginl  Visvarupl  cha  devl  leldyamdndh  iti  sapta 
jihvdh  j  wTiich  is  thus  translated  by  Dr.  Roer  (Bibl.  Ind.  xv.  153): 
"  The  seven  flickering  tongues  [of  the  fire]  are — Kali  (the  black  one), 
Karali  (the  terrific  one),  Manojava  (swift  as  the  mind),  Sulohita  (the 
very  red  one),  Sudhumravarna  (of  purple  colour),  Sphulinginl  (emit- 
ting sparks),  and  the  Visvarupl  (all-shaped)  goddess."  The  words 
"of  the  fire"  are  not  in  the  original.  The  commentator,  however, 
briefly  remarks :  Kali  Karali  Manojava  cha  Sulohita  cha  yd  cha 
Sudhumra-varnd  Sphulinginl  Visvarupi  cha  devl  leldyamdndh  dahanasya 
jihvdh  |  Agner  havir-dhuti-grasandrthdh  etdh  sapta  jihvdh  \  "Kali, 
Karali,  Manojava,  Sulohita,  Sudhumravarna,  Sphulinginl,  and  the 
goddess  Yisvarupl,  are  the  seven  flickering  tongues  of  fire.  These 
are  the  seven  tongues  which*  Agni  has  for  devouring  oblations  of 
butter."  ^ 

On  this  passage  Prof.  "Weber  has  the  following  remarks  in  his  Indische 
Studien  i.  286  f.,  which <ire  thus  of  an  earlier  date  than  those  above  cited : 
"  The  first  two  of  these  names  were  at  a  later  period  personified,  and 
came  to  represent  Durga  fthe  consort  of  S'iva,  who  was  developed  out 
of  AgiA),  who^Durga),  as'is  well  known,  became  the  object  of  a 
bloody  sacrificial-worship  under  the  names  Kali  (the  dark,  black), 
KarAla,  Karalavadana,  Karalanana,  Karalarnukhl.  It  is  evident  that 
a  considerable  time  was  required  for  the  seilse  of  the  word  to  become 
developed  from  that  of  the  '  dark,  terrific,  tongue  of  fire '  to  that  of 
a  goddess  Kali,  Karala,  worshipped  xyith  bloody  sacrifices :  and  since 


430  TEXT  OF  RAMAYANA  ABOUT  UMA. 

we  find  the  latter  in  the  drama  of  'Malati-Madhava,'  by  Bhavabhuti, 
who  is  assigned  by  Wilson  to ,  the  eighth  century,  the  Mundaka 
TJpanishad  must  be  considerably  older;  unJ.esd,  indeed,  the  ancient 
signification  of  these  names  maintained  itself  at  a  later  period  along- 
side of  the  popular  one.  The  worship  of  Durga,  Uma,  and  Parvatl, 
may  be  shown  in  its  beginnings,  if  not  from  this  passage,  at  all  events 
from  the  Upanishads  of  the  Yajus,  see  Ind.  Stud.-i.  p.  78."  In  a 
note  Weber  adds :  "  The  third  name  (Man^java)  reminds  us  of 
Manojavas,  the  appellation  of  Yama,  the  god  of  death,  in  the  Yaj. 
S.  5,  11.  Does  it  at  a  later  period  denote  his  wife?  for  Yama  too, 
like  S'iva,  is  one  stage  of  Agni,  the  older,  certainly,  while  S'iva  is 
the  more  recent." 

In  the  passages  quoted  from  the  Bhagavata  and  Yishnu  Puranas  in 
section  vi.  (pp.  378,  385),  the  spouse  of  Mahadeva  is  said  to  have  been 
originally  the  daughter  of  Daksha,  and  to  have  become  the  daughter 
of  Himavat  only  when  she  was  born  the  second  time  after  her  voluntary 
death  at  Daksha's  sacrifice.  The  following  passage  of  the  Ramayana 
says  nothing  of  this  double  birth  and  parentage : 

Eamayana  i.  36,  13  ff.  (ed.  Schl.  =  Bombay  ed.  35,  13  ff;  Gorresio's 
ed.  37,  14  S.}. — S'ailendro  Himavdn  ndma  dhdtundm  tikaro  mahdn  \ 
tasya  kanyd-dvayam  jdtaih  rupendpratimam  Ihuvi  \  yd  Meru-duhitd 
Rama  tayor  mdtd  sumadhyamd  \  ndmnd  Mend  manojnd  vat  patril 
Himavatah  priyd  \  tasydm  Gangeyam  abhavaj  jyeshthd  Himavatah  sutd  \ 
Uma  ndma  dvitlyd  'Ihut  kanyd^tasyaiva  Rdghava  |  .  .  .  19.  Yd  chdnyti 
S'aila-duhitd  kanyd"si.d  Raghu-nandana  \  ugram  su  vratam  dsthdya  tapas 
tepe  tapo-dhand  \  ugrena  tapasd  yuktum  dadau  S'aila-i'arah  sutdm  \ 
Rudrdydpratirupdya  UmdiHi  loka-namaslcrHdrn  \  liy  ete  S'aila-rdjasya 
sute  Rdma  babhuvatuh  \  Gangd  cha  saritdm  sreshthd  devlndm  chdpy  Uma 
vard  |  "  To  Himavat,  the  chief  of  mountains,  the  great  mine  of  metals, 
two  daughters  were  born,  in  beauty  unequalled  upon  earth.  The 
daughter  of  Meru,  Mena  by  name,  the  pleasing  and  beloved  wife  of 
Himavat,  was  their  slender-waisted  mother.  Of  her  ^ras  born'Ganga, 
the  eldest  daughter  of  Himavat ;  and  his  second  daugnter  was  called 
Uma.  .  .  .  19.  The  other  daughter  of  the  mountain,  rich  in  austeix3t  ob- 
servances, having  undertaken  an  arduous  rite,  fulfilled  a  course  of  severe 
austerity.  This  daughter,  TJma,  distinguished  by  severe  austerity,  adored 
by  the  worlds,  the  chief  of  mountains  gave  to  the  matchless  B,udra. 


THREE  DAUGHTERS  OF  3IMAVAT  ACCORDING  TO  HARIVAMS'A.  431 

These,  Rama,  were  the  two  daughters  of  the  king  of  mountains,  Ganga, 
the  most  eminent  of  rivers,  and  Uma.  the  most  excellent  of  goddesses." 
The  Harivamsa  (vv»  940  ff.)  gives  the  following  history  of  Uma, 
which  differs  in  some  points  from  that  of  the  Ramayana,  as  it  assigns 
three  daughters  to  Himavat  and  Mena,  among  whom  the  Ganga  is  not 

included : 

• 

Eteshdm  mdnail  kanyd  Mend  ndma  mahdgireh  \  patrii  Himavatah 
sreshthd  ....  943.  Tierah  kanyds  tu  Mendydm  janaydmdsa  S'aila-rdt  \ 
Aparndm  Ekaparndm  cha  tritiydm  JEkapiftaldm  \  tapas  charantyah  su- 
mahad  duscharam  Deva-Ddnavaih  \  lokdn  safatdpaydrndsus  ids  tisrah 
sthdnu-jangamdn  \  dhdram  eka-parnena  Ekaparnd  samdcharat  \  pdtald- 
pmhpam  ekaih  cha  ddadhdv  Ekapdtald  \  ekd  tatra  nirdhdrd  turn  mdtd 
pratyashedhayat  \  "u  md"  iti  nishedhantl  mdtri-snehena  duhkhitd  \  sd 
tathoktd  tada  mdtrd  devl  duschara-chdrini  \  Umety  evdbhavat  khydtd 
trishu  lok<&hu  sundarl  \  tathaiva  ndmnd  teneha  visrutd  yogadharminl  \ 
etai  tu  trikumdrlkam  jagat  sthdsyati  Bhdrgava  \  tapah-sarlrds  tdh  sarvds 
tisro  yoga-baldnvitu.il  \  sarvds  cha  Irahma-vddinyah  sarvds  chaivordhva- 
retasah  \  Umd  tdsdm  varishthd  chajyeshthd  cha  vara-varnini  \  mahdyoga- 
lalopeid  Nahddevam  upasthitd  \  Asitasyaikaparnd  tu  Devalasya  mahdt- 
manah  \  patnl  dattd  mahdbrahman  yogdchdrydya  dhlmate  \  Jaigishavydya 
tu  tathd  viddhi  tdm  Ekapdtaldm  \ 

940.  "Their  (the  Pitris')  mental  daughter  was  Mena,  the  eminent 

wife  of  the  great  mountain  Himavat 943.  The  king  of  the 

mountains  begot  three  daughters  upon  Mena — viz.  Apania,  Ekaparna, 
and  Ekapatala.  These  three,  performing  very  great  austerity,  such  as 
could  not  be  accomplished  by  gcfls  or  Danavas,  distressed  [with  alarm] 
both  the  stationary  and  th,e  moving  worlds.  Ekaparna  ('One-leaf') 
fed  upon  one  leaf.  Ekupatala  took  only  one  patala  (Bignonia)  for  her 
food.  One  (Aparna)  t^ok  no  sustenance,  but  her  mother,  distressed 
through  maternal  affection,  forbade  her,  dissuading  her  with  the  words 
u  md  ('0  don't').  The  beautiful  goddess,  performing  arduous  austerity, 
having  toeen  thi^  addressed  fry  her  mother  on  that  occasion,  became 
known  in  the  tnree  worlds  as  Uma.  In  this  manner  the  contemplative 
goddsss  became  renowned  under  that  name.  But  this  world  shall 
remain  [distinguished  by]  having  these  throe  maids.  AH  these  three 
had  mortified  bodies,  were  distinguished  by  the  force  of  contemplation, 
and  were  all  chaste,  and  expounders  of  divine  knowledge.  Uma  was 


432  TEXT  FfiOM  MAHABHARATA  CONTAINING 

the  eldest  and  most  excellent  among  the  three.  Distinguished  by  the 
force  derived  from  deep  contemplation,  she  obtained  Mahadeva  [for 
her  husband].  Ekaparna  was  given  as  a  -wife  to  the  great  Asita 
Devala,  the  wise  teacher  of  the  Yoga.  And  know  that  Ekapatala  was 
in  like  manner  bestowed  on  Jaigis_havya."  » 

The  following  is  the  commencement  of  the'hymn  of  Arjuna  to  Durga 
which,  as  has  been  mentioned  in  p.  205,  he  uttered  ut  the  suggestion 
of  Krishna:218 

Mahabharata,  Bhlshma-parv.  vv.  796  ff. — Arjunah  uvacha  \  namas  te 
Siddhasendni  drye  mand<9ra-rdsini\  Kumdri  Kali Kdpdli  Kapile  Krishna- 
pingale  \  Bhadrakdli  namas  tubhyam  Mahdkdli  namo  'stu  te  \  Chandi 
Chande  namas  tulhyam  Tdrini  Varavarnini\  Kdtydyani  mahdbhdge  Kardli 
Vijaye  Jaye  \  sikhi-pichha-dhvaja-dhare  ndndbharana-bhushite  \  atta-sula- 
praharane  khadga-khetaka-dhdrini  \  gopendrasydnuje  jyeshthe  Nanda- 
gopa-kulodbhave  \  Mahishasrik-priye  nityam  Kausiki  plta-vdsini  \  atta- 
Jidse  koka-mukhe  namas  te  'stu  rana-priye  \  Ume  S'dkamlhari  S'vete 
Krisline  Kaitalha-nasini  \  Hiranydkshi  Virupdkshi  Dhumrdkshi  cha 
namo  'stu  te  \  Veda-sruti  mahdpunye  brahmanye  Jdtavedasi  \  Jambu- 
kataka-cha,ityeshu  nityam  sannihitdlaye  \  tvam  brahma-vidyd  vidydndm 
maftdnidrd  cha  dehindm  \  Skandha-mdtar  bhagavati  Durge  kdntdra- 
vdsini  |  .  .  .  .  Svdhdkdrah  Svadhd  chaiva  kald  kdshthd  Sarasvatl  \ 
Savitri  Veda-mdta  cha  tathd  Veddnta  uchyate  (uchyase  ?~)  \  stutd  'si 
tvam  Mahddevi  visuddhendntardtmand  \  Jayo  bhavatu  me  nityam  tvat- 
prasdddd  randjire  \  kdntdra-bhaya-durgeshu  bhaktdndm  pdlaneshu  cha  \ 
nityam  vasasi  pdtdle  yuddhe  jayasi  ddnavdn  \  tvam  Jambhanl  Mo'hinl 
cha  Mdyd  Hrlh  S'rls  tathaiva  cha  \  Sandhyd  prabhdvatl  chaiva  Sdvitrl 
Jananl  tathd  \  Tushtih  Pushtir  Dhritir  Dlpt-is  chandrdditya-vivardhim  \ 
bhutir  bhutimatdm  saukhye  vtkshyase  siddha-chdranaih  \ 

"  Reverence  be  to  thee,  Siddhasenani  (Gener/less  of  the  Siddhas),  the 
noble,  the  dweller  on  Mandara,  Kumar!,  Kali,  Kapali,  Kapila,  Krishna- 
pingala.  Reverence  to  thee,  Bhadrakali;  reverence  to  thee,  Mahakali; 
reverence  to  thee,  Chandi,  Chanda;  reference  to  thee,  0  Tainm  (de- 
liveress),  0  Yaravarnim  (beautiful-coloured),  0  fortunate  KatyayanI, 
0  Karali,  0  Yijaya,  0  Jaya  (victory),  who  bearest  a  peacock's  tail  for 
thy  banner,  adojned  with  various  jewels,  armed  with  many  spears,  wield- 

218  The  Bhagavadgita,  in  which  Krishna  himself  is  so  highly  extolled  and  glorified, 
begins  shortly  afterwards  in  the  twenty- fifth  section  of  the  Bhishma-parvan,  vv.  830  ff. 


PART  OF*ARJUNA'S  HYMN  TO  DURGA.  433 

ing  sword  and  shield,  younger  sister  of  the  chief  of  cowherds  (Krishna), 
eldest,  born  in  the  family  of  the  cowherd  Nanda,  delighting  always 
in  Mahisha's  blood,  Kaugiki,  wearing  yellow  garments,  loud-laughing, 
wolf-mouthed,  reverence  to  the*e,  thou  delighter  in  battle,  0  Uma, 
S'akambhari,  thou  white  one  [or  S'veta],  thou  black  one  [or  Krishna], 
0  destroyer  of  Kaitabha-i  Keverence  to  thee,  0  Hiranyakshi,  Yiru- 
pakshi,  Dhumrjkshl  (golden-,  distorted-,  *dark-eyed),  0  Yedasruti 
(tradition  of  the  Veda),'  most  pure,  devout,  JatavedasI  (female  Agni), 
who  dwellest  continually  near  to  (..»...?)  mountain-precipices 
and  sepulchres.  Of  sciences  thou  art  the  science  of  Brahma 
(or  of  the  Veda),  the  great  sleep  of  embodied  beings,  0  mother  of 
Skanda,  divine  Durga,  dweller  in  wildernesses.  Thou  art  called 
Svaha,  Svadha,  Kala,  Kashtha  (minute  divisions  of  time),  Sarasvati,219 
Savitri,  mother  of  the  Yedas,  and  the  Vedanta  (or  end  of  the  Vedas). 
Thou,  gr*at  goddess,  art  praised  with  a  pure  heart.  By  thy  favour  let 
me  be  ever  victorious  in  battle.  In  deserts,  fears,  and  difficulties,  and 
in  the  preservation  of  thy  devout  servants,  and  in  Patala,  thou  con- 
stantly abidest  ;  and  conquerest  the  Danavas  in  battle.  Thou  art 
Jambhani  (destroyer  ?),  Mohim,  Maya,  Hri,  S'ri,  Sandhya,  22°  the 
luminous,  Savitri,  the  mother,  Tushti  (contentment),  Pushti  (fatness), 
Dhriti  (constancy),  Dipti  (light),  increaser  of  the  sun  and  moon,*the 
power  of  the  powerful  in  battle,  —  [all  this]  thou  art  seen  by  the 
Siddhas  and  Charanas  [to  be]." 

In  another  part  of  the  Mahabharata,  (fourth  or)  Virata-parvan, 
178  if.,  there  is  another  hymn  (already  referred  to  above,  p.  425,  note) 
addressed  by  Yudhishthira  to  Durga,  and  very  similar  to  the  preceding. 
Among  other  thi.Vgs,  she  is  there  said  to  "have  her  perpetual  abode 
on  the  Yindhya  mountains,  and  to  delight  in  spirituous  liquor,  flesh, 
and  sacrificial  victims"  (Vindhye  chaiva  naga-sresJitJie  tava  sthunam  hi 
sasvatam  \  Kali  Eali  Mahdkali  sldhu-mamsa-pasu-priye). 

In  the  Harivamsa,  vv.  3236  ff.,  it  is  related  by  Yaisampayana  that 
with  tbe  view  of  defeating  the  designs  of  Kansa  in  regard  to  the  de- 
struction of  DtJvakl's  oifspring,  Yishnu  descended  into  Patala,  where  he 
the  aid  of  Nidra  Kala-rupim  (Sleep  in  the  form  of  Time)  ;  and 


219  Compare  what  has  been  said  by  Prof.  Weber  on  the  relation  of  Uma  and  Saras- 
vat!,  above,  p.  424,  note,  and  p.  428. 

220  See  above,  p.  428. 

VOL.  iy.  28 


434          VISHNU  SEEKS  THE  AID  OF  NIDM  KALARUPINI. 

promised  her  in  return  that  through  his  favour  she  should  be  a  goddess 
adored  in  all  the  world  (v.  3242).  He  desires  her  to  he  born  as  the 
ninth  child  of  Yasoda  on  the  same  night  on  whjch  he  was  to  be  born  as 
the  eighth  child  of  DevakI  (3247),  whe'n  he  would  be  carried  to  Yasoda 
and  she  to  Devaki.  He  tells  her  that  she  would1  be  taken  by  the  foot, 
and  cast  out  upon  a  rock ;  but  would  then  obtsdn  an  eternal  place  in  the 
sky,  becoming  assimilated  to  himself  in  glory ;  woul<?.-  be  installed  by 
Indra  among  the  gods  (3251  ff.),  received  by  himtas  his  sister  under  the 
name  of  Kausiki,  and  would  cbtain  from  him  (Indra)  a  perpetual  abode 
oh  the  Yindhya  mountain,  where,  thinking  upon  him  (Yishnu),  she 
would  kill  the  two  demons  S'umbha  and  Nisumbha,  and  would  be  wor- 
shipped with  animal  sacrifices  (tatraiva  tvdm  lhaginy-arthe  grahlshyati 
sa  Vdsavah  \  Kusikasya  ttf  gotrena  Kausiki  tvam  bhavishyasi*"  \  sa  te 
Vindhye  naga-sreshthe  sthdnam  ddsyati  sdsvatam  \  ityddi}.  Yaisampa- 
yana  then  (vv.  3268  ff.)  repeats  a  hymn  to  Arya  (Durga)  which  had 
been  "uttered  by  rishis  of  old,"  beginning  Ndrdyamm  mamasydmi 
devim  tribhuvanesvarim  \  "  I  bow  down  before  the  goddess  NarayanI, 
the  mistress  of  the  three  worlds."  She  is  here  called  by  many  of  the 
names  which  we  have  already  met  in  Arjuna's  hymn  (above,  p.  432  f.), 
such  as  S'ri,  Dhriti,  Kirti,  Hri,  Sandhya,  Katyayam,  Kausiki,  Jaya, 
Yijfya,  Tushti,  Pushti  (3269  f.).  She  is  also  called  the  eldest  sister  of 
Yama  (jyeshtha  Tamasya  lhagirii,  v.  3271);  and  it  is  worthy  of  remark 
that  she  is  said  to  be  worshipped  by  the  [savage  tribes  of]  Savaras, 
Yarvaras,  and  Pulindas  (S'avarqfr  Varlarais  chawa  Pulindais  cha  sitpu- 
j'ita,  v.  3274).  She  is  also  described  as  fond  of  wine  and  flesh  (sura- 
mamsa-priya,  v.  3279),  the  goddess  of  wine  (surd-devl,  v.  3286),  as 
being  Sarasvatl  in  Yalrmki  (comp.  pp.  424  f.,  42^  f.),  and  Smriti 
(memory)  in  Dvaipayana,  i.e.  Yyasa  (Sarasvatl  cha  Tdlmlke  Smritir 
Dvaipdyane  tathd,  v.  3285),  and  among  sciences,  the  science  of  Brahma 
or  the  Yeda  (vidydndm  lrahma-vidy~d,  v.  3291),  and  as  pervading  the 
entire  world  (tvayd  vydptam  idam  sarvam  jagat  sthdvara-jangamam, 
v.  3293).  r  -  B  f  „ 

The  object  of  this  passage  seems  to  be  to  take  Durga  and  her  worship 
(the  extensive  prevalence  of  which  could  not  be  ignored  by  the  Yaish- 
navas)  under  the  protection  and  patronage  of  Yishnu. 

221  Kaus'ika  is  applied  as  an  epithet  to  Indra  in  R.V.  i.  10,  11.  See  the  first 
volume  of  this  work,  p.  347  f.,  and  the  fifth  volume,  p.  219. 


DEVlMAHATMYA  OF  THE  MARKANDEYA  PTJRANA.          435 

A  hymn  addressed  to  Durga  by  Pradyumna,  the  son  of  Krishna,  is 
also  to  be  found  in  Harivamsa  vv^  9423  ff. ;  and  another  uttered  by 
Aniruddha,  son  of  Fradyumna  and  grandson  of  Krishna,  occurs  in  w. 
10235  ff.  of  the  same  work,  T^e  latter  hymn  is  repeated  by  Vaisam- 
payana  after  he  had  made  obeisance  to  the  "infinite,  imperishable, 
celestial,  eternal  primeval-god  Narayana"  (anantam  akshayam  divyam 
ddi-devam  sandbanam  \  Ndrdyanam  namashritya,  10232);  and  he  talks 
of  the  goddess  as  being  "  adored  by  rishis  and  gods  with  flowers  of 
eloquence"  (rishibhir  daivatais  chaiva  tfdk-pushpair  cvrchitdm  subhdm, 
10234).  The  hymn  addresses  Durga  as  the  sister  of  Indra  and  Vishnu 
(Mahendra-Vishnu-bhaginlm,  v.  10235),  as  Gautami,  and  by  many  of 
the  names  which  we  have  already  found  in  the  preceding  hymns,  as 
well  as  by  many  new  appellations,  and  goes  on  thus  (v.  10256  ff.): 
Erahmd  Vishnus  cha  Rudras  cha  Chandra-surydgni-mdrutdh  |  .  .  .  . 
kritsnaf/l  jagad  idam  prohtam  devydh  ndmdnuklrtandt  \  "Brahma, 
Vishnu,  Kudra,  the  sun,  moon,  and  wind  ....  all  this  world  is 
pronounced  by  uttering  the  name  of  this  goddess." 

The  worship  of  this  goddess  reaches  its  climax  in  such  works  as 
the  Devi-mahatmya  in  the  Markandeya  Purana,  sections  81  ff . ; 
where  it  is  remarkable  that  she  is  connected  with  Vishnu,  and  not 
with  her  proper  consort,  Mahadeva.  She  is  there  called  Mahamaya 
(the  great  Illusion),  Yoganidra  (the  Sleep  of  meditation),  etc.  It 
is  there  said  of  her  (v.  47  ff.) :  Nityaiva  sd  jagan-murtir  tayd  sarvam 
idam  tatam  \  tathdpi  tat-samutpattir  bvfwdhd  sruyatdm  mama  \  devdndm 
kdrya-siddhy-artham  dvirbhavati  sd  yadd  \  utpanneti  tadd  loke  sd  nityd 
'py  abhidhiyate  \  "She  is  the^ternal  form  (or  substance)  of  the  world; 
by  her  all  this  [Universe], is  stretched  out;  and  yet  hear  from  me  her 
manifold  birth.  "Whenever  she  is  manifested  to  effect  the  purposes 
of  the  gods,  she,  thcyigh  eternal,  is  said  in  the  world  to  be  born." 
The  narrative  then  proceeds,  that  when  Vishnu  was  sunk  in  this 
sleep  of  contemplation  (Yoganidra}  at  the  end  of  the  Kalpa,  two 
demons,  Madhu  and  Kaitabha,  sprang  from  his  ear' and  were  about 
to  kill  Brahma ;  when  the  latter,  seeing  Vishnu  asleep,  with  the  view 
of 'arousing  him,  began  to  celebrate  the  praises  of  Yoganidra,  "his 
divine  sleep  who  was  abiding  in  his  eyes,  She  mistress  of  the  universe, 
the  support  of  the  world,  the  cause  of  its  continuance  and  destruction" 
(Hari-netra-hritdlaydm  \  visvesvarlm  jagaddhdtrlm  sthiti-samhdra-kdri- 


436       PART  OP  HYMN  FEOM  THE  MARKAIfDEYA  PTJRANA. 

mm  |  nidrdtn  Ihagavatlm  VisJinoh}.  Some  of  the  functions  assigned 
to  her  are  as  follows  (v.  56) :  fflayaiva  dhdryate  sarvam  tvayaitat 
srijyate  jagat  \  tvayaitat  pdlyate  devi  tvam  <atfy  ante  cha  sarvadd  \ 
"By  thee  the  universe  is  upheld;  by  thee  the  world  is  created,  by 
thee  it  is  preserved ;  and  thou  Always  devourest  it  at  tte  end." 
Again,  it  is  said  of  her  (v.  63  ff.) :  Yackcha  Kinchit  kvachid  vastu  sad 
asad  vd  'khildtmake  \  tasya  sarvasya  yd  saktih  sd  tvam  Mm,  stuyase  tadd  \ 
yayd  tvayd  jagat-srashtd  jagat-pdtd  'tti  yo  jagat  <\  so  ''pi  nidrd-vasam 
nltah  kas  tvdm  stotum  iJtesvarah,  \  Vishnuh  sanra-grahanam  aham  Isdna 
eva  cha  [  kdritds  te  yato  'tas  tvdm  kah  stotum  saktimdn  lhavet  \  "  Thou 
art  the  power  (£akti]  of  whatever  substance,  existent  or  non-existent, 
anywhere  is,  0  thou  soul  of  all  things :  why  art  thou,  then,  lauded 
[by  us  who  are  unequal  to  the  task]  ?  Who  is  able  to  magnify  thee 
by  whom  the  Creator  of  the  world,  the  Preserver  of  the  world,  and  the 
Devourer  of  the  world,  have  been  subjected  to  sleep  ?  Since  tnou  hast 
caused  Vishnu,  and  me  (Brahma),  and  Isana  (S'iva)  to  become  incor- 
porate, who  has  the  power  to  praise  thee  ?" 

The  following  is  the  beginning  of  a  hymn  addressed  to  her  after  her 
destruction  of  the  demon  Mahisha  : 

Mark.  Pur.  sect.  84,  1  ff. — S'aJcrddayah  sura-gandh  nihate  'tivlrye 
tasmin  durdtmani  surdribale  cha  devyd  \  tdffi  tushtuvuh  pranati-namra- 
sirodhardmsdh  vdglhih  prahanha-pulakodgama-chdru-dehdh  \  devyd  yayd 
tatam  idamjagad  dtma-saktyd  nihsesha-deva-gana-sakti-samuha-murtyd  \ 
tarn  Ambikdm  alcJiila-deva-maJmi^Jii-pujydm  bhaktyd  natdh  sma  vida- 
dhdtu  subhdni  sd  nah  \  yasydh  prabhdvam  atulam  bhagavdn  Ananto 
Erahmd  Harai  cha  na  hi  vaktum  alam  \talancha  \  sd  Chandikd  'khila- 
jagat-paripdlandya  ndsdya  clidsubha-lhayasya  matim  karotu  \  "When 
the  goddess  had  slain  this  very  powerful  and  malignant  [demon]  and 
the  host  of  the  enemies  of  the  gods, — the  deities,  headed  by  Indra, 
with  their  necks  and  shoulders  bowed  down  in  obeisance,  and  their 
bodies  beautified  by  horripilation,  delighted,  lauded  her  with  [these] 
words :  '  We  bow  down  with  devotion  befort  that  goddess  Ambika,  who 
stretched  out  this  world  by  her  own  power,  in  whom  are  impersonated 
the  various  energies  (sakti*)  of  all  the  gods,  who  is  to  be  adored  byall 
the  deities  and  rishis :  may'khe  confer  upon  us  blessings.  May  Chan- 
dika,  whose  unequalled  majesty  and  might  neither  the  divine  Ananta 
(Yishnu),  nor  Brahma,  nor  Hara  /S'iva)  is  competent  to  express,  de- 


HIGHER' RANK  ATTAINED  BY  DURGA.  437 

termine  upon  the  preservation  of  the  world,  and  the  destruction  of  the 
fear  of  evil."  t 

These  specimens  may  suffice  to  show  the  dignity  to  which  this  goddess 
has  eventually  been  elevated  in  the  estimation  of  her  worshippers ;  and 
a  compainson  of  the  characteristics  yhieh  are  here  assigned  to  her  with 
the  descriptions  quoted  above  from  the  Kamayana,  Mahabharata,  etc. 
(pp.  364,  373  •ff.,  430  f.),  will  show  that  she  has  now  attained  a 
higher  rank  in  the  Indian  pantheon  than  was  originally  enjoyed  by 
the  daughter  of  Daksha  and  Himavat. 


439 


APPENDIX. 


NOTE   K.—Page  33,  line  19. 

In  the  TJttarakanda,  too,  of  the  Ramayana  (iv.  9,  Bombay  ed.),  it  is 
said  :  Prajdpatih  purd  srishtva  apah  salila-samlhavah  \  tdstim  gopdyane 
sattvdn  asrijat  padma-sambhavah  \  "  The  lotus-born.  Prajapati,  'sprung 
from  the  waters  (or  the  source  of  the  waters),  having  formerly  created 
the  waters,  created  beings  to  protect  them;"  who,  from  agreeing  to 
undertake  this  function,  were  called  Rakshasas  (from  the  root  raksh, 
"to  protect"). 

On  this  verse  the  commentator  remarks:  "Apah  srishtvd"  Ihumer 
adho-hhdga-vartiriir  apah  srishtva  ity  arthah  \  tatra  "  salila-sambhavah  " 
Prajdpatir  alhud  ity  anvayah  \  .  .  .  .  "  'Having  created  the  waters : ' 
the  sense  is  having  created  the  waters  existing  beneath  the  earth.'  In 
them  the  water-born  Prajapati  arose :  such  is  the  connexion."  .... 
He  then  quotes  Manu  i.  8  (see  p.  30,  above),  and  two  other  texts  from 
the  Veda.  See  above,  p.  24,  note.  , 


>      NOT.E   B.— Page  65,  line  25. 

In  the  description  of  the  regions  to  which  the  monkeys  were  sent  to 
search  for  Sita  after  efce  had  been  carried  off  by  Ravana,  which  is  given 
in  the  Kishkindha  Kanda  or  fourth  book  of  the  Ramayana,  the  follow- 
ing reference  occurs  to'  the  three  steps  of  Vishnu ;  and  it  is  of  such  a 
character  as  -4o  preserve  sJme  trace  of  Aurnabhava's*  interpretation  of 
those  steps : 

„  "Sect.  40,  vv.  54«  ff.  (Bombay  ed.)1 — Tatah  param  hemamayah  irlmdn 
Udaya-parvatah  \  tasya  kotir  divam  sprishtsd  sata-yojanam  dyatd  \  jdta- 

1  Gorresio,  iv.  40,  59  ff.,  has  several  various  readings  in  this  passage.  I  have 
noted  those  which  occur  in  the  most  impoi^nt  verses. 


440  APPENDIX. 

rupamayl  divya  virdjati  sa-vedikd  |  .  .  .  .  57.  Tatra  yojana-vistdram 
uchhritam  dasa-yojanam  \  sringam  fiaumanasam  ndma  jdtarupamayam 
dhruvam  \  58.  Tatra  purva-padam  kritva  pura  Vishnus  trivikrame 
(trivikramah,  Gorr.)  |  dvitlyam  sikha^e  Meros  chakara  purushottamah  \ 
59.  Uttarena,  parikramya  Jambudv^pam  divdkarah  \  drisyo  bh&vati  bhu- 
yishtham  sikharam  tad  mahochhrayam  (drisyo  bhavati  bhutdndm  sikharam 
tarn  updsritah,  Gorr.)  |  54.  "Beyond  that  is  the  glorious,  golden, 
TJdaya  parvata  [mountain  over  which  the  sun  rises] ;  the  divine  and 
golden  peak  of  which  shines,  touching  the  sky,  a  hundred  yojanas 

long,  and  supported  by  a  basement 57.    There  stands  the 

firm,  golden  Saumanasa  peak,  a  yojana  broad  and  ten  yojanas  high. 
When  Vishnu,  the  chief  of  spirits,  formerly  strode  three  paces,  he 
planted  his  first  step  there,  and  his  second  on  the  summit  of  Meru. 
When  the  sun  has  circled  round  Jambudvipa  by  the  north  [or,  with  his 
last  (step)],  he  is  mostly  visible  on  that  lofty  peak;"  (or,  'he 'is  visible 
to  living  beings,  resting  upon  that  peak,'  Gorr.). 

The  commentator  remarks  on  vv.  57  and  58 :  Tatra  &ata-yojana-dlrghe 
Udaya-giri-sikhare  \  58.  Tatra  Saumanase  fringe  trivikrame  tribhih 
padais  trilokydh  dkramana-prastdve  prathamam  padam  tatra  kritva  dviti- 
yam padam  Meroh  sikhare  chakara  \  On  v.  59  :  Astdnantaram  uttarena 
Jambu-dvipam  parikramya  tan  mahochhrayam  sikharam  Saumanasd- 
kJiyam  prdpya  sthito  divdkaro  Jamlu-dvipa-vartindm  bhuyishtham 
drishto  bhavati  Saumanasa-sikhare  ity  arthah  \  idam  satya-yugdlMprd- 
yam  tretdydm  kshira-sdgara-madhya-gasya  dvdpare  suroda-madhya-gasya 
kalau  Lankd-madhya-gasya  Jambudvlpa-stha-manushya-drisyatdydh  anya- 
troktatvdt  \  "'  There,'  on  this  summit  \>f  the  Udaya-giri,  a  hundred 
yojanas  long.  58.  '  There,'  on  that  peak  Saumanasa,  in  his  triple 
stride,  on  the  occasion  of  his  traversing  the  three  worlds  with  three 
steps,  [Vishnu]  placed  his  first  step,  and  his  second  on  the  summit  of 
Meru."  On  v.  59  he  observes:  "After  sunset,  when  the  sun  has 

circled  round  Jambudvipa  by  the  north  [or,  with  his  last  (step)],  he 

f 
is  mostly  seen  by  the  inhabitants  of  that  (ivipa  standing  on  the  lofty 

summit  called  Saumanasa.  This  refers  to  the  Satya  yuga.  For  it  is 
said  in  other  books  that  in  the  Treta  age  the  sun  is  beheld  by  {he 
men  of  Jambudvipa  to  go  through  the  ocean  of  milk,  in  the  Dvapara 
through  the  ocean  of  wine,  and  in  the  Kali  through  Lanka." 

The  three  steps  of  Vishnu  are  mentioned  in  other  parts  of  the  Rama- 


APPENDIX.  441 

yana.  Thus  in  book  vi.  39,  21  (Bombay  ed.),  it  is  said:  Prdsddaischa 
vimdnai£  cha  Lanka,  parama-lhushitd  \  ghanair  ivdtapdpdye  madhyamam 
Vaishnavam  padam  \  ''Eanka  was  beautifully  adorned  with  temples 
and  palaces,  as  the  middle,  step  (or  position)  of  Vishnu,  with  clouds,  at 
the  departure  of  the  hot  season  [anji  commencement  of  the  rains]." 
The  commentator  explains  the  middle  positi9n  of  Vishnu  by  akasa. 
This  passage  appears  to  r,efer  to  the  zenith. 


NOTE   G.—Page  134,  line  34. 

It  will  be  observed  that  in  the  text  of  the  Bombay  edition  the  two 
parts  of  the  story,  viz.  (1)  the  request  of  the  gods  to  Vishnu  that  he 
would  assume  the  form  of  a  dwarf,  and  (2)  the  petition  of  Kasyapa 
to  the  same  deity  that  he  would  become  the  son  of  himself  and  Aditi, 
are  more  closely  connected  than  they  are  in  Schlegel's  edition  by  the 
insertion  of  the  words,  "Bestow  the  boon  which  Aditi,  the  gods, 
and  I  solicit,"  which  are  wanting  in  Schlegel's  text.  Further,  in 
the  Bombay  edition  Kasyapa  is  made  to  allude  to  "the  hermitage 
where  the  work  was  accomplished,"  as  if  he  was  himself  present 
there,  of  which  nothing  is  said  in  Schlegel's  edition.  And  again^as 
already  noticed  in  note  129,  p.  130,  by  the  omission  of  the  words 
"thus  addressed  by  the  deities,"  which  occur  at  the  beginning  of 
verse  17  of  Schlegel's  text,  the  Bombay  edition  harmonizes  the  two 
parts  of  the  story,  and  removes  the  appearance  of  interpolation  which 
Schlegel's  text  exhibits. 


NOTE  ~D.—Page  175,  line  33. 

In  this  note  I  shall  adduce  some  further  evidence  tending  to  confirm 
the  supposition  that  Rama  may  not  have  been  originally  represented  in 
the  Ramayana  as  an  incarnation  of  Vishnu. 

In  tie  summaries  of  the  poem,  contained  in  sections  1  and  3 2  of 

2  "If  is  worthy  of  remark,  that  in  the  third  section  the  poet  is  said  to  have  "  seen  " 
all  that  he  narrates  in  the  poem;  just  as  the  Vedic  rishis  are  said  to  have  "seen" 
their  hymns  (see  Nirukta  ii.  1 1 :  Rishir  darsanat  \  Etonian  dadarsa  ity  Aupaman- 
yavrih  \  " '  Rishi  comes  from  seeing :  he  is  one  who  saw  the  hymns,'  so  says  Aupa- 
manyava."  See  the  second  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  195  and  196 ;  also  the  third 
vol.,  p.  85).  Ramayana i.  3,  3  :  Mama-Laltshmana-Sitabhih  rajna  Dasarathena  cha\ 


442  APPENDIX. 

the  First  Book,  as  given  in  the  Bombay  edition  and  in  Schlegel's,  no 
allusion  is  made  to  the  divine  origin  of  Rama ;  and  the  same  is  the 
ease  in  the  first  and  third  sections  in  Gorre'sio^s  edition  also.  In  the 
fourlJh  section,  however,  of  the  lasti-named  recession  (which  the  others 
do  not  contain),  the  plan  pursued  by, the  gods  for  the  destruction  of 
Ravana,  and  the  divine,  fluid  through  which  the  sons  of  Dasaratha 
were  produced,  are  distinctly  referred  to  (vv.  ]4,  15:  "Rdvanasya  badho- 
pdye  mantranam  samuddhritam  \  15.  Svargdvafaranam  chaiva  surdndm 
samuddhritam  \  divyd  cha  pdyasotpattih  putra-janma  nripasya  cha).  In 
the  first  of  the  two  summaries  in  Ramayana  i.  1,  13  and  18  (Bombay 
ed.),  Rama  is  described  as  "  glorious  like  Prajapati"  (Prajdpati-samah 
srlman,  v.  13),  and  as  "resembling  Vishnu  in  vigour,  and  pleasant  to 
behold,  like  the  Moon"  (  Vishnund  sadriso  virye  soma-vat  priyadarsanah, 
v.  18).  The  first  of  the  epithets  in  the  last  line  would  imply  that 
he  was  not  Vishnu.  Otherwise,  what  necessity  for  the  comparison  ? 
The  commentator  remarks  thus  on  the  expression  in  v.  18  :  Yadyapi 
Rdmo  Vishnur  eva  sarva-rupas  cha  tathdpi  mdnushopddhi-lheddt  sarvatra 
sddrisyam  drashtavyam  \  yadvd  Vishnund  sadrisah  ity  ananvaydlankdrah  \ 
"Although  Rama  was  no  other  than  Vishnu,  still,  from  the  seeming 
distinctness  of  his  humanity,  resemblances  may  be  regarded  as  existing 
in  all  points  [between  the  one  and  the  other].  Or,  the  comparison 
may  be  regarded  as  coming  within  the  class  of  improper  similes  (ananva- 
ydlanlcdra}"  See  Professor  Goldstucker's  Dictionary  under  this  word. 
In  regard  to  the  other  epithet;  "glorious  like  Prajapati,"  v.  13,  the 
commentator  similarly  observes :  Yadyapi  Rdmo  Brahma  eva  tathdpi 
mdnusha-dharmdndm  soka-mohadmdm  mdyikdndm  tatra  darsanena  aupd- 
dhika-lhedam  dddya  tat-samatvoTctih  [  Bhdryava-loha-pratilandha-rupdj 

sabharyena  sarashtrena,  yat  praptam  tatra  tattvatah  \  4".  Hasitam  bhashitam  chaiva 
gatir  yavach  cha  cheshtitam  \  tat  sarvam  dharma-vlryena  yathavat  samprapasyati  \ 
5.  Stri-tritiyena  cha  tatha  yat  praptam  charaia  vanft  \  satyasandhena  Ramena  tat 
sarvam  chanvavaifishata  \  6.  Tatah  pasyati  dfytrmatma  tat  sarvam  yogam  asthitah  | 
purayat  tatra  nirvrittam  punav  amalakam  yathar'\  7.  Tat  sarvafc  tattvato'  drishtva 
ityadi  \  3.  "  "Whatever  actually  occurred  to  Rama,  Lakshmana  and  Slta,  to  king 
Dasaratha  with  his  wives  and  dominions,  (4)  their  laughing,  their  talking,  fheir 
fates  and  their  endeavours — all  that  he  sees  exactly  hy  the  power  of  righteousness. 
5.  He  also  beheld  all  that  ha^ened  to  the  truthful  E,5ma  while  travelling  in  the 
forest  with  his  wife  as  the  third.  6.  Then  the  righteous  (bard),  falling  into  a  state 
of  contemplation  (yoga),  sees  all  that  had  formerly  happened,  like  an  "  amalaka " 
fruit  in  his  hand.  7.  Seeing  all  this  exactly ,"  etc. 


APPENDIX.  443 

Jat&yu-moTcsJia-praddna-rupat  svena  saha  sarvdyodhya-vdsi-janasya  sa- 
sarlrasya  Brahma-loka-nayana-rup&ch  cha  kdrandt  tat-samatvam  \ 
sarvathd  svatantrasya  eva  Idrisesfyu  yogyatvat  "Although  Rama 
was  no  other  than  Brahma,  still,  o\fing  to  the  circumstance  that  grief, 
delusion,  and  other  illusory  hunian  attributes,  were  seen  in  him, — in 
reference  to  this  apparent  distinctness, — a  resemblance  is  predicated. 

•i 

From  the  fact  that  he  deprived  Bhargava  (Parasurama,  see  above, 
p.  177)  of  his  celestial  abode,  that  he  conferred  final  emancipation  on 
Jatayu  (Ramayana,  Bombay  ed.,  iii.  68,  37),  and  that  he  took  with  him, 
to  Brahma's  paradise  the  whole  of  the  inhabitants  of  Ayodhya  in  an 
embodied  state,  there  is  a  similarity  (between  Rama  and  Prajapati) ; 
since  only  a  being  who  was  in  all  respects  independent  of  others  cjould 
be  capable  of  such  acts."  As  instances  of  Rama's  "illusory  human 
attributes,"  I  may  mention  his  ignorance  of  Sita's  locality  when  she 
had  been  carried  off  by  Ravana  (Ar.  Kanda  58,  1  ff.,  Bombay  ed.= 
Gorr.  sect.  65),  and  the  consequent  search  instituted  for  her  discovery 
(Kishkindha  K.  40,  11  ff.,  Bombay  ed.=Gorr.  ed.  40,  9  ff.),  and  his 
doubt  regarding  her  purity  after  she  had  been  rescued  from  the 
Rakshasa's  palace  (Bala  Kanda  1,  81  ff.,  Bombay  ed.).  There  are 
some  phrases  in  the  summary  of  the  poem,  in  the  first  chapter  of  #ie 
first  book,  which  are  of  a  hyperbolical  character,  and  do  not  neces- 
sarily point  to  a  divine  character  in  Rama.  Thus,  in  verse  4  the  hero 
about  whom  inquiry  is  made  is  described  as  one  of  whom  the  gods 
are  afraid  (kasya  lilhyati  devus  cha).  In  v.  84  Rama  is  said  to  have 
been  honoured,  or  worshipped,  by  all  the  gods  (pujitah  sarva-devataiti); 
while  on  the  other^  hand  he  is  said,  v.  86,  to  have  received  a  boon 
from  the  gods  (devatdlhyo  *varam  prapya).  In  verse  32  Rama  and 
his  party,  while  living  at  Chitrakuta,  are  compared  to  gods  and 
gandharvas  (deva-gandftfirva-sanMsdJb).  In  section  2,  verse  32,  the 
epithets  dharmdtmano  bhagavatah,  and  dhimatah,  "righteous,"  "divine 
or  venerable"  (an  epithet) constantly  applied  to  Krishna,  as  well  as 
to  Buddha),  affi  "wise,"  are  assigned  to  Rama.  "Bhagavat"  need 
nolfcecessarily  mean  "divine." 

In  the  text,  pp.  170  ff.  (see  also  pp.  165  ff.),  following  Lassen,  I 
have,  pointed  out  that  the  second  sacrifice  described  in  the  fourteenth 
section  in  Schlegel's  edition  has  some  appearance  of  not  having  formed 
a  portion  of  the.  original  poem.  It  mil  also  be  seen  from  note  164 


444 


APPEXDIX. 


in  p.  165,  as  compared  with  the  quotation  given  in  the  text  in 
the  same  and  the  following  pages,  that  the  Bombay  edition,  which 
frequently  differs  in  its  readings  from  Schlegel's,  omits  YV.  5-11  of 
the  section  in  question  (the  fourteenth),  as  given  in  the  latter,  and 
passes  at  once  from  the  fourth  to  theu,twelfth  verse.  In  tne  account 
which  follows  of  the  request  preferred  by  the  gods  to  Vishnu  to  be- 
come incarnate  in  the  sons  of  Dasaratha,  etc..,  the  two  editions  differ 
in  their  arrangement  of  details,  but  not  in  the  substance.  In  the 
Bombay  edition  the  words  pita/ram  rochaydmdsa  tadd  Dasaratham 
nripam  ("he  accepted  as  his  father  the  king  Dasaratha"),  which  occur 
in  section  15,  32,  are  repeated  in  section  16,  8. 

In.  the  text,  pp.  174  f.,  I  have  given  the  account  of  the  birth  of 
Dasaratha's  sons  according  to  Schlegel's  edition.  I  now  subjoin  the 
description  of  the  same  event  as  found  in  the  Bombay  edition  and  in 
Gorresio's : 


[Bombay  ed.,  sect.  18,  w.  8  ff.] 
8.  Tato  yajne  samdpte  tu  ritu- 

v    «/  J.  • 

nam  shat  samatyayuh  \  tatas  cha 
dvddase  mdse  chaitre  ndvamike  ti- 
thfu  |  9.  Nakshatre  '  diti-daivatye 
8vochcha-sam8theshupanchasu\grah- 
eshu  Itarleate  lagne  Vdkpatdv  Indund 
saha  |  10.  Prodyamdne  jagannd- 
thdm  sarva-loka-namaskritam\  Jtau- 
ialyd  'janayad  Rdmam  divya-laksh- 
ana-samyutam\  11.  Vishnor ardham 
mahdlhdgam  putram  Aikshvdku- 
nandanam\lohitdksham  mahdldhum 
raktoshtham  dundubhi-svanam  \  12., 
Kausalyd  susubhe  tend  putrena.- 
mita-tejasd  \  yt^tJid  varena  devdndm 
Aditir  Vajrapdnind  \  13.  Bharato 
ndma  Raikeyydm  jajne  satya-pard- 
kramah\  stikshdd  Vishnos  chaturlhd- 
gah  sarvaih  samudito  gunaih  \  14. 
Atha  Lafahmana-S'atruffhnau  Su- 
mitrd  'janayat  sutau  \  tlrau  sarfti- 


[Gorr.  ed.,  sect.  19,  w.  10  ff.J 
10.  Tdsdm prafajnire putrds  chat- 
vdro  'mita-tejasah  \  Rdma-Lahsh- 
mana  -  S'atrughna  -  Bharatdh  deva- 
rupinah  \  11.  Janma  -  tejo  -  guna- 
jyeshtham  putram  apratimaujasam\ 
Kausalyd'janayadRdmani  Vishnu- 
tulya-pardkramam\  12.  (almost the 
same  as  T.  12  of  the  Bomb,  ed.)  13. 
Bhavdya  sa  hi  lokdndm  JRavanasya 
badhdya  cha  \  ^VsA«or  viryurdhato 
jajne  Itdmo  rdjlva-lochanah  \  14. 
Tejo  -  vlryddhikah  &urah  srimdn 
guna-ganakarah  I  babhuvdnavaras 
chaiva  S'aTcrdd  Vi&hnos  cha  pau- 
rwhe  |  «15.  Tathd  LaJcshmana-S'a- 
trughnau  SumitraSjanayat  sutau  \ 
dridha-lhaktl  mahotsdhau  R<tha- 
sydvarajau  gunaih  \  16.  Tuv'apy 
dstdm  chatur-bhdgau  Vishnoh  ftam- 
pinditdv  ulhau  \  ekah  elM-chatur- 
bhdgdd  aparasmdd  ajdyata  \  17. 


APPENDIX. 


445 


stra-Ttusalau  Vi&hnor  ardha-saman- 
vitau\  15.  Puchyejdtas  tu  Bharato 
mlnalagne  prasanna-dhvh  j|  Sdrpe 
jatau  tu  Saumitrl  Jculire  'IhyuditJ 
ravau  \  \Q.^Rdjnah  puirdh  mahdt- 
mdnas  chatvdro  jajnire'  pmthalt  \ 
gunavanto  '  nurupu£cha  ruchyd  pro- 
shthapadopamdh  \  » 


[Bombay  edition.] 

8.  "After  the  sacrifice  had 
been  completed,  the  six  seasons 
passed ;  and  then  in  the  twelfth 
month,  in'Chaitra,  on  the  ninth 
lunar  day,  (9)  in  the  lunar  mansion 
of  which  Aditi  is  the  deity,  when 
five  planets  were  culminating, 
when  Jupiter  was  rising  with  the 
moon  in  the  sign  of  Cancer, — (10) 
Kausalya  brought  forth  Rama, 
the  lord  of  the  world,  adored  by 
all  worlds,  possessed  of  celestial 
marks,  (11)  a  son  of  high  destinies, 
the  half  of  Vishnu,  andgladdener  of 
the  race  of  Ikshvaku,  with  red  ey£s, 
great-armed,  with  reM  lips,  and  \v  ith 
a  voice  like  a  kettle-drum.  12. 
Kausalya  received  lustr^from  this 
son  of  unbounded  might,  as  Aditi 
did  from  the  chief  of  the  gods  who 
wields  the  thuniierboLt.  1 3. [A  soft] 

if 

called  Bharata,  of  real  valour,  pos- 
sessed of  all  virtues,  was  born  of 
Kaikeyi,  who  was  manifestly  the 


Bharato  nfima  Kailceyyah  putrak 
satya-pardkramah  \  dharmdtmd  cha 
mahdtmd  cha  pralihydta-bala-viJcra- 
mah  |  ...  19.  Sa  chaturlhir  ti^lid- 
Ihdgaih  putrair  Dasaratho  vritah  I 
babhuva  parama-prlto  devair  iva 
Pitdmahan  \  20.  Teshdm  Icetur  iva 
sreshtho  Rdmo  loka-hite  ratah  \ 
Svayatnlhur  iva  devandm  sarveshdm 
sama-darsanah  \ 

[Gorresio's  edition.] 
After  naming  Da^aratha's  wives, 
the  narrative  proceeds : 

10.  "To  them  were  born  four 
sons,  of  boundless  might,  Rama, 
Lakshmana,  S'atrughna,  and  Bha- 
rata, in  fashion  like  the  gods.  1 1 . 
Kausalya  brought  forth  Rama,  a 
son  of  unparalleled  vigour,  the  first 
in  birth,  might,  and  qualities, 
equal  in  valour  to  Vishnu.  f2. 
(  =  v.  12.  of  the  Bomb,  ed.)  13. 
For  this  lotus-eyed  Rama  was  born 
from  the  half  of  Vishnu's  generative 
power,  for  the  good  of  the  worlds, 
and  the  destruction  of  Ravana.3 
14.  This  glorious  hero,  a  mine  of 
virtues,  excelled  in  fire  and  energy, 
and  in  manly  vigour  was  not  in- 
"ferior  to  Indra  and  Vishnu.  15. 
So  too  Sumitra  bore  two  sons, 
Lakshmana  and  S'atrughna,  £rm  in 
devotion,  of  great  energy,  second 
to  Rama  in  virtues.  16.  These 
two  als*,  combined,  were  two 


3  This  verse,  though  not  in  the  Bombay  edition,  is  to  be  found  in  Schlegel's  as 
the  fifth. 


446  APPENDIX.      t 

fourth  partof  Vishnu.  14.  Then  Su-  fourth  parts  [_i.e.  were,  together, 
mitra  bore  two  sons,  Lakshmana  the  fourth  part]  of  Vishnu, 
and  S'atrughna,  heroes,  skilled  in  all  From  ,the  other  fourth  part 
weapons,  who  had  [each]  the  half  'there  was  born  (17)  to  Kaikeyi, 
[of  the  fourth]  of  Vishnu.4  15.  one  son  named  Bhara^ta,  of  real 
But  Bharata,  of  tranquil  mind,  valour,  righteous,  high-souled,  re- 
was  born  under  the  lunar  mansion  nowned  for  power,  and  energy. 
Pushya  and  the  sign  of  Pisces;  ....  19-.Dasaratha,  surrounded 
while  the  sons  of  Sumitrl  were  by  his  four  sons  of  high  destinies, 
'born  under  Sarpa  (or  the  ninth  was  highly  pleased,  like  Pitamaha, 
lunar  mansion),  when  the  sun  had  attended  by  the  gods.  20.  Rama, 
risen  in  Cancer.  16.  The  four  great  devoted  to  the  good  of  the  worlds, 
sons'  of  the  king  were  separately  was,  like  a  banner,  the  most 
born,  possessing  great  qualities,  eminent  among  them,  like  Sva- 
resembling  one  another,  and  in  yambhu  among  the  go^.s,  and  im- 
brilliancy  like  the  constellation  partial  to  all." 
Proshthapada." 

The  Bombay  edition  has  not  the  verse  which  is  found  as  the  fifth 
in  Schlegel's  edition,  and  the  thirteenth  in  Gorresio's,  but  it,  equally 
with  the  others,  asserts  in  its  eleventh  verse  (which  is  not  in  Schlegel's 
edition)  that  the  half  of  Vishnu  was  incarnate  in  Rama.  The  same 
remark  which  in  p.  175  I  have  made  on  the  passage  as  given  in  Schlegel's 
edition,  applies  to  this  recension  also — viz.  that  the  verses  which  refer 
to  Dasaratha's  sons  being  incarnations  of  Vishnu  might  be  omitted  with 
little  injury  to  the  connexion.  The  account  of  Bharata,  Lakshmana, 
and  S'atrughna,  given  in  vv.  13-15  (as  they  now  stand),  has  a  certain 
awkwardness,  inasmuch  as  after  leaving  Bharata,  and  introducing 
(v.  14)  Lakshmana  and  S'atrughna,  the  narrator  recurs  (v.  15)  to 
Bharata,  to  give  further  particulars  of  his  bbth,  and  then  goes  back 
again  to  the  other  brothers.  If,  however,  vv.  13  and  14  have  been 
interpolated,  it  is  possible  that  some  other  lines,  which  seem  necessary 
to  complete  v.  15,  and  to  tell  the  name' of  BharutaV^other,' and  the 
names  of  Sumitra's  sons  (which  that  verse  does  not  contain),  may  at 
the  same  time  have  been  left  out.  In  Gorresio's  text  of  this  passage, 
the  verses  describing  the  Astrological  influences  under  which  Dasaratha's 

1  "Which  had  been  communicated  to  their  mother.     See  sect.  15,  21,  Schlegel. 


,       APPENDIX.  447 

sons  were  born,  are  left  out ;  though  these  are  not  unlikely  to  have 
formed  part  of  the  original  text  of  the  poem.5  The  twelfth  verse  of 

ij 

this  (as  well  as  the  corresponding  verses  of  the  other  two  recensions), 
where  Eama  is  compared  to  Indra,6  an'd  also  the  fourteenth  verse 
(Gorr.),  in,  which  he 'is  said  to  be  not  inferior  to  Indra  and  Vishnu 
[these  two  verses,  I  say, -if  original  portions  of  the  poem,  as  is  not 
unlikely],  sound,£omewhat  strangely  as  part  of  a  work  in  which  the 
incarnation  of  Eama, was  originally  contemplated,  as  it  would  not 
exalt  the  reader's  conception  of  the  dignfty  of  the  hero  (supposed  to 
be  an  incarnation  of  Vishnu)  to  compare  his  might  to  that  of  Indra, 
an  inferior  god.  On  this  subject  Gorresio  remarks,  in  note  90,  p.  423  f. 
of  his  sixth  volume,  as  follows :  "  This  is  one  of  the  passages  in  the 
poem  from  which  it  might  be  inferred  that  'the  avatara  of  *  Yishnu  in 
Eama  was  an  interpolation  in  the  epopee.  If  Eama  was  a  corporeal 
manifestation  of  Yishnu,  and  consequently  Yishnu  himself  in  a  human 
form,  the  epithet  'not  inferior  to  Yishnu,'  which  is  here  assigned  to 
him,  has  neither  appropriateness  nor  sense.  It  would  be  as  if  it  were 
said  to  any  one  that  he  was  not  inferior  to  himself.  But  we  shall  not 
anticipate  the  judgment  of  a  question  which  has  need  to  be  maturely 
considered." 

Again,  it  is  related  in  the  Aranya  K.,  or  Third  Book,  30,  20  ff.'of 
Gorresio's  edition,  that  when  the  Eakshasas  were  about  to  attack  Eama, 
the  gods  and  other  beings  became  very  anxious  about  his  safety :  Tato 
devarshi-gandharvdh  siddhds  cha  saha  chd^anaih  \  uchuJi parama-santrastdh 
guliy alias  cha  parasparam  \  chatur-dasa  sahasrdni  rakshasdm  bhlma-karma- 
ndm  |  ekas  cha  Rdmo  dJiarmdtmuf katham  yuddham  bhavtshyati  \  Rdmo  no 
vidito  yo  ''yam  yatltd  cha  vaqudhdm  gatah  \  manushyatvam  tu  matvd  'sya 
kdrunydd  vyathitam  manah  \  nardantlva  chamus  teshum  rakshasam  kdma- 
rupindm  \  ndnd-vikrita-^esdndrn  Ramdsrumarn  updgamat  \  "  Then  the 
gods,  rishis,  Gandharvas,  Sicldhas*  Charanas,  and  Guhyakas,  being 
greatly  terrified,  spoke  Shus  among  themselves :  '  There  are  fourteen 
thousargls  of  JRaksJjjpafts,  ter/i'jfe  in  their  deeds,  and*  the  righteous 
Eama  is  but  d*ne :  how  shall  they  fight  together  ?  We  know  who 

5  »Signor  Gorresio,  on  the  other  hand,  thinks  they  are  superfluous  (Preface,  vol.  i., 
p.  Hi.).  •» 

6  In  the  Aranya  Kanda  68,  38  (Bombay  ed.),  Eama  and  Lakshmana  are  compared 
to  the  chiefs  of  the  gods,  Vishnu  and  Vasava  (Indra,  surendrav  iva  Vishnu-vasavau] 
The  commentator  makes  no  remark  on  this.    , 


448  APPENDIX.      , 

this  Rama  is,  and  how  he  went  to  the  earth;  but  considering  his 
human  nature,  our  minds  are  distressed  from  compassion.  The  army 
of  these  Rakshasas,  who  take  any  shape  they  will,  and  who  have 
assumed  various  disguises,  nas  approached  the  hermitage  of  Rama, 
as  if  shouting.' " 

In  the  Bombay  ed.  iii.  24,  19  ft.,  however,,  most  of  the  words  ascribed 
to  the  gods,  etc.,  are  quite  different:  Tato  devdh  sa-gand&arvdh  siddhds  cha 
saha  chdranaih  \  sameyuscha  mahdtmdno  yuddha-dirsana-kdnkshayd  \  20. 
Rishayas  mahdtmdno  loke  bn»hmarshi-sattamdh  \  sametya  chochuh  sahitds 
le  'nyonyam  punya-karmanah''  \.  21.  Svasti  go-lrdhmandndncha  loka- 
nam cheti  samsthitah8  \  jayatdm  Rdghavo  yuddhe  Paulastydn  rajarii- 
cJiardn  \  22.  Chakra-hasto  yathd  yuddhe  sarvan  asura-ptmgavdn  \  evam 
uktva  punah  prochur  dlokya  cha parasparam  \  23.  Chaturdasa  sahasrdni 
rakshasdm  Ihlma-karmandm  \  ekas  cha  Rdmo  dharmdtmd  katham  yuddham 
lhavishyaii  \  24.  Iti  rdjarshayah  siddhdh  sa-gands  cha  dvijc.rshabhdh  \ 
jdta-kautuhalds  tasthur  vimdna-sthds  cha  devatdh  \  25.  Avi&htam  tefasd 
Rdmam  sangrdma-sirasi  sthitam  \  drishtva  sarvdni  bhutdni  lhaydd 
vivyathire  tada  \  26.  Rupam  apratimam  tasya  RdmasydJclishta- 
karmanah  \  labhuva  rupam  kruddhasya  Rudrasyeva  mahdtmanah  \ 

35.  Tasya  rushtasya  rupam   tu   Rdmasya   dadrise   tadd   \ 

Dakshasyeva  kratum  hantum  udyatasya  Pmdkinah3  \  19.  "Then  the 
great  gods,  Gandharvas,  and  Siddhas,  with  the  Charanas,  (20)  and  the 
great  rishis,  the  most  excellent  Brahman  rishis,  assembled  in  the  world, 
eager  to  witness  the  battle :  a,nd  being  assembled,  these  holy  beings 
thus  spoke  to  one  another:  21.  'Blessings  be  upon  cows  and  Brahmans, 
and  upon  the  worlds !  may  Rama  conq-ier  in  battle  the  Rakshasas,  the 
descendants  of  Pulastya,  (22)  as  the  god  wfyo  bears  £ie  discus  (Vishnu) 
[overcame]  the  chiefs  of  the  Asuras.'  Having  thus  spoken,  and  looked 
at  each  other,  they  said  again :  23.  '  There  are  fourteen  thousands  of 
Rakshasas,  terrible  in  their  deeds,  und  the  righteous  Rama  is  but  one : 

7  Adirghatva^  arsham  \  Comm.  ._         , 

8  The  following  is  the  commentator's  note  on  'the  last  toil*  <TIj.iIs  of  this  line,  of 
•which  it  is  difficult  to  make  any  sense  as  they  stand:  " Lokanam  ye  'bhisangatah" 
iti  paths  laikonam  lokapalanam  sangatah  havir-homadi-dvara  upakarakah  ity  arthah. 
"  According  to  another  reading,  lokanam  ye  'bhisangatah,  the  sense  is,  '  and  lipon 
those  guardians  of  the  world  who  have  arrived,  who  aid  us  by  means  of  oblations, 
sacrifices,'  etc." 

9  This  verse,  as  given  in  Gorresio's  edition,  will  be  found  above,  p.  373,  note. 


APPENDIX.  449 

how  shall  they  fight  together?'  24.  [Having]  thus  [spoken],  the  royal 
rishis,  Siddhas,  and  Brahman  rishi|  with  the  [other]  hosts,  stood  in 
curious  expectation,  t&gother  with  the  gods  in  aerial  cars.  25.  Behold- 
ing Rama,  full  of  might,  standing  jn  the  front  of  the  battle,  all  creatures 
were  agitated  with  fear.  26.  The  upparalleled  form  of  Rama,  vigorous 

in  action,  was  like  that' of  the  great  Rudr^a  when  incensed 

35.  The  form  of  *Rama,  jncensed,  was  beheld  then,  like  that  of  Pinakin 
(Rudra)  when  prepared  to  destroy  the  sacrifice  of  Daksha." 

Prom  a  comparison  of  these  passages,  as  given  in  the  two  different  • 
recensions,  it  appears  probable  that  the  speech  which  is  put  into  the* 
mouths  of  the  gods  and  other  spectators,  in  the  Bombay  edition,  is  the 
most  ancient  and  original,  as  no  mention  is  there  made  of  the  divine 
nature  of  Rama,  the  reference  to  Vishnu  in  the  twenty-second  verse 
being  introduced  only  by  way  of  illustration,  in  the  same  way  as  the 
allusions 'to  Rudra  in  the  twenty-sixth  and  thirty-fifth  verses.  In 
Gorresio's  edition,  on  the  other  hand,  there  is  a  distinct  reference  to 
the  divine  nature  of  Rama ;  and  I  therefore  conjecture  that  the  short 
speech  which  it  contains  has  been  substituted  for  the  other  somewhat 
longer  one,  by  a  subsequent  editor  in  support  of  this  later  conception. 

The  career  of  Rama  in  his  conflicts  with  the  Rakshasas  was  not 

•* 

entirely  unchequered  by  reverses.  In  the  forty-fifth  section  of  the 
sixth,  or  Yuddha  Kanda,  Bombay  ed.  (corresponding  to  section  20 
of  Gorresio's  recension),  it  is  /Bated  that  both  he  and  his  brother 
Lakshmana  were  severely  wounded  anfl  rendered  senseless  by  a  cloud 
of  serpents  transformed  into  arrows,  which  were  shot  by  Indrajit,  son 
of  Ravana. 

In  the  following  citations  I  shall  use  the  Bombay  edition  only, 
except  when  I  specially  refer  to  Gorresio's.  In  vv.  IS.  (sect.  45)  it  is 
said  :  Rama-Lakshmarfayor  eva  sarva-deha-bhidah  sardn  \  bhrisam  dvesa- 
ydmdsa  Rdvanih  samitinjayah  \  nirantara-sarlrau  tu  tuv  ubhau  Rdma- 
Lakshmanauw\  kruddhenetidra/itd  vl^aifpannagaihsaratdmgatmh\  tayoh 
kshata-ja-mui^/z?rJ'Jsrdva  ritdhiram  bahu  \  ...  16.  Jttaddhau  tu  sara- 
bandhena  tuv  ubhau  rana-murdhani  \  mmeshdntara-mdtrena  na  selcatur 
av»kshitum  \  .  .  .  22.  Papdta  pratliamam  Rdmo  viddho  marmasu  mdrga- 
naih  \  krodhdd  Indrajitd  yena  purd  S'akro  'fa  nirjitah  \  "The  son  of 

10  Instead  of  tav  ubhau  Rama-Lakshmanau,  Gorresio's  edition  (vi.  20,  8)  reads 
kritau  tau  sayakais  tada.  * 

VOL.  iv.  ,        •       29 


450  APPENDIX. 

Ravana,  victorious  in  battle,  discharged  numerous  arrows  which  pierced 
the  whole  bodies  of  Rama  and  Lak/ihmana.  Both  of  these  two  heroes 
had  their  bodies  [wounded]  in,  every  spot  by  the  incensed  Indrajit  with 
serpents11  which  had  taken  the  forrr  of  arrows.  Much  blood  flowed 

through  the  openings  formed  by  their  wounds 16.  Bound  by 

the  chain  of  these  arrows,  in  the  front  of  the  battle,  those  two  could 
not  look  up  even  for  a  moment.12  ....  22.  llama  first  fell,  pierced 
in  the  most  vital  parts,  in  anger,  by  Indrajit,  by  whom  even  Indra 
had  formerly  been  conquered."13  Their  allies  the  moakeys  arrive  and 
'tind  the  two  brothers  lying  helpless.  Sect.  46,  3  ff.  .  .  .  Anvasochanta 
Rdghavau\  acheshtau  manda-nisvdsau  sonitena  pariplutau\  sara-jdldchitauu 
staldhqu  saydnau  sara-talpa-gau  \  nisvasantau  yathd  sarpau  nischeshtau 
dina-vikramau  \  ityddi  \  "They  bewailed  the  two  descendants  of  Raghu, 
incapable  of  eifort,  breathing  slowly,  bathed  in  blood,  encompassed 
with  a  net  of  arrows,  stiff,  lying  on  a  bed  of  arrows,  breathing  like 
serpents,  helpless,  their  vigour  quelled,"  etc.  Yibhlshana  comforts 
the  monkeys  by  saying  that  the  good  fortune  of  Rama  and  Lakshmana 
would  not  forsake  them  (vv.  38  fF.) :  Athavd  rafohyatum  Rdmo  ydvat 
sanjnd-viparyayah  \  labdha-sanjnau  hi  KtikutstJiau  lhayam  nau  vyapa- 
neshyatah  \  naitat  kinchana  Rdmasya  na  cha  Rdmo  mumurshati  \  na  hy 
enam  hdsyate  Lakshmlr  durlabhd  yd  gatdyushdm  \  "  Or,  let  Rama  be 
guarded  while  his  insensibility  continues.  When  the  two  descendants 
of  '3£akutstha  have  recovered  their  senses,  they  shall  remove  our  fear. 
This  [mishap]  of  Rama  is  nothing ;  he  is  not  about  to  die :  for  Good 
Fortune  (Lakshmi),  who  is  beyond  the  reach  of  the  dead,  will  not 

abandon  him." 

o 

11  The  edition  of  Gorresio  (see  preceding  note)  supplies  the  word  "arrows." 
Bb'htlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.  nirantara,  translate  the  clause  ^hus :  "  There  was  no  spot 
on  their  bodies  in  which  an  arrow  was  not  sticking." 

^  On  this  the  commentator,  in  conformity  with  his  dogmatic  views  regarding  the 
divine  nature  of  the  two  heroes,  remarks:  Na  sekatur  avekshitum  \  tadrisav  iva 
sthitau  manushyatva-natariaya  Hi  bodhyam  \  ~~"  'CiOuld  rii.1  YQ^JID,.1'  remained,  as 
it  were,  in  this  condition.  This  is  to  be  understood  as  done  to  £ot  (i.e.  simulate) 
humanity  (i.e.  that  they  were  mere  men)." 

13  Indrajit's  victory  over  Indra  is  related  in  the  Uttara  Kauda,  section  27.     He 
was  originally  called  Meghanudaf,-but  after  he  had  taken  Indra  captive,  he  received 
from  Brahma  the  name  of  Indra-jit,  or  the  "conqueror  of  Indra,"  ibid,  section  30. 
A  summary  of  the  story  will  be  found  further  on. 

14  Gorresio's  ed.  reads  sara-jalavritau1. 


APPENDIX.  451 

It  will  be  observed  that  nothing  is  here  said  of  the  divine  nature  of 
Rama;  and  nothing  is  said  of  Lak^hmi  being  his  spouse,  though  she 
is  regarded  in  Hindu  n/ythology  as  the  ,consort  of  Narayana  (see  the 
commentator's  remark  on  Uttara  Janda,  17,  35,  which  will  be  quoted 
below).  •  ,  , 

In  the  next  section  (fhe  forty-seventh)  of  the  Yuddha  Kunda  it 
is  related  that^Ravari|i  sent  Sita   on  his   car  Pushpaka,  with  the 
RakshasI  Trijata  (v.'14),  to  the  spot  where  Rama  and  Lakshmana 
were  lying  wounded  and  helpless;  and  that  on  seeing  these  brothe»a, 
"powerful  as   the  sons  of  the    gods"   (deva-suta-prabhdvau,   v.   23), 
she  broke  out  into  lamentations,  supposing  them   to  be  dead.     The 
forty-eighth   section   contains  her  lament^  in  the   course   of  .which 
she  says:    16.    "Did  not  the  two  sons  of  Raghu  possess  the  super- 
natural weapons  of  Varuna,  Agni,  Indra,  and  Vayu,  and  the  Brahma- 
siras?13  '17.  My  two  lords  (though  I  am  now  lordless),  Rama  and 
Lakshmana,  the  equals  of  Indra,  have   been  slain  in  battle  by  an 
unseen    foe,    by   enchantment.      18.    For   no   foe,    though  swift  as 
thought,  could  return  living,  after  he  had  once  been  beheld  by  Rama 
in  the  fight.     19.    Nothing  can  counterbalance  the  power  of  Time, 
and  Fate  is  invincible"  (vv.  16  ff. :  Nanu  Vdnmam  Agneyam  Ainfyam 
Vdyai'yam  eva  din  \  astram  Brahma-siras  cliaii-a  Rughavau  pratyapad- 
yata  \    17.  Adrisyamdnena  rane  mdyayd  Vasavopamau  \  mama  nuthdv 
andthdydh  nihatau  Rdma-Lalcshmanau  \  18.  Na  hi  drishti-patham  prdpya 
Rdgharasya  rane  ripuTi  \  Juan  pratinifiirteta  yadyapi  sydd  manojavak  \ 
19.  Na  Edlasydtibhdro  'sti  Icrituntas  clia,  sudurjayah}.     Sita  is  then 
consoled  by  the    RakshasI    'frijata,   who   tells  her  (v.  22)  that  her 
husband  is  not  dead;  anc?  explains  why  she  thinks  so.     In  vv.  30  f., 
she  says :  Neman  sakyau  rane  jetum  sendrair  api  surdsuraih  \  tddrisam 
darsanam  drishtvd  mcfyd ,  chodlritqjii  tava  \  idaih  tu  sumahach  chitram 
saraih  pasyasva  Maithili  \  visanjnau  paiitdv  etau  naiva  Lalcshmlr  vimun- 
chati  \  prdyena  gata-sattid$dm  ^urj^mndm  gatayushdm^\  drisyamaneshu 
valdrefhu  p(L*  t     •        'i  vai'fo itam  \     "These  two  cannot  be  conquered 
in  battle  even  by  the  Suras  and  Asuras,  Indra  included.     Such  a  sight 
I  have  seen,  and  declared  to  thee.     But  behold  this  great  wonder,  that 
though  they  are  lying  senseless  from  the  arrows,  Fortune  (Lakshmi) 

13  The  commentator  says  on  this  verse :  fratyapadyata  pratyapadyetam  \  eka-va- 
chanam  arsham  \  "  nanv"  itahpurvam  tat  Kim  idaiiim  na  smritam  iti  seshah. 


452  APPENDIX. 

does  not  abandon  them.  There  is  generally  a  great  change  in  the 
countenances,  when  beheld,  of  nun  who  have  lost  their  lives,  and 
whose  breath  has  departed.''  Whiler  the  nfonkeys  were  watching 
Rama,  he  recovers  his  consciousness  \sect.  49,  v.,3):  Etasminn  antare 
Rdmo  pratyabudhyata  vlryavdn  \  athirafoai  satva-yogdchcha''6  saraih 
sanddnito  'pi  san  \  "  In  tte  mean  time  the  heroic  Rama  awoke,  owing 
to  his  firmness  and  robustness  of  frame,  though  he  had  been  bound 
by  the  arrows."  He  then  begins  to  lament  the  loss  of  his  brother 
Lgkshmana,  whom  he  supposes  to  be  dead ;  and  ascribes  the  mis- 
'fortune  to  his  own  bad  generalship  (v.  18:  Imam  adya  gato  'vasthtim 
mamdndryasya  durnayaiK]. 

In  feet.  50,  Vibhishana,  laments  the  condition  of  Rama  and  his 
brother,  and  the  disappointment  thereby  caused  to  his  own  hopes  of 
becoming  king  of  Lanka;  but  is  comforted  by  Sugrlva,  who  says  to 
him  (vv.  21  f.) :  Rdyjyam  prdpsyasi  dharma-jna  Lanlcdydfh  neha  sam- 
sayah  \  Rdvanah  saha  putrena  sva-kdmam  neha  lapsyate  \  22.  Gafudd- 
dhishthihitdv  etdv  ubhau  Rdghava-Lakshmanau  \  tyaktvd  moham  badhi- 
shyete  sa-ganam  Rdvanam  rane  \  "Thou,  0  [prince],  well  skilled  in 
duty,  shalt  without  doubt  obtain  sovereignty  in  Lanka ;  but  Ravana 
andchis  son  shall  not  obtain  the  object  of  their  desire.  22.  Both 
Rama  and  Lakshmana  are  watched  over  by  Garuda :  having  escaped 
from  their  swoon,  they  shall  slay  Ravana  with  his  hosts."  Sugrlva, 
however,  proposes  to  his  father-in-law  Sushena,  to  remove  Rama  a,nd 
Lakshmana  from  the  scene  of*' action  to  Kishkindha;  and  promises 
that  he  himself  will  slay  Ravana,  his  sons  and  kinsmen,  and  bring 
back  Sita,  as  Indra  recovered  the  lost  S'ri  (24  f. :  fiaha  surair  Tiari- 
ganair  labdha-sanjndv  arindamau  [  gachha  tv'am  bhrdtarau  grihya  Kish- 
kindhdm  Rdmd-Lakshmanau  \  ahaiii  tu  Rdvanam  hatvd  sa-putram  saha- 
bdndhavam  \  Maithilltn  dnayishydmi^'akro  nasJddm  iva  S'rii/am}.1'1 

Sushena,  however,  then  relates  (vv.  26-32)  that  once  when  the  gods 
had  been  wounded  with  arrows  a^d^rendeo^d  senseless,  in  a  combat 
with  the  Danavas,  they  had  been  cured  Dy  BrihaspaLlVjby  his  know- 
ledge and  the  use  of  herbs  aided  by  sacred  texts ;  and  suggests  that 
some  of  the  monkeys  should  be  sent  to  the  ocean  of  milk  to  bring 

16  Maha-bala-yuktatvat  \  Comm. 

17  In  Gorresio's  edition  fifteen  more  verses  (vi.  2-5,  27-41)  follow,  in  which  Sugrlva 
boasts  further  of  what  he  will  accomplish ;  but  they  are  not  found  in  the  Bombay  ed. 


APPENDIX.  453 

those  herbs.  The  Bombay  edition  then  goes  on  at  once  in  w.  33  ff. 
to  relate  that  a  tempest  arose,  attended  with  lightnings,  and  announces 
the  arrival  of  the  celest;01  bird  Garuda  for  the  purpose  of  curing  Rama 
and  his  brother.  In  Gorresio's  text  the  following  verses  are  intro- 
duced between  those  which  correspond  to  the  thirty-second  and  thirty- 
third  of  the  Bombay  edition  : 

Gorresio,  sect.  26,  vv.  8,  9,  10,  lla. — Athainam  upasangamya 
Vdyuh  karne  vacho  tyravit  \  Rama  Rama,  mahdbdho  dtmdnam  smara 
vai  hridd  \  Ndrdyanm  tvam  lhagavdn  R&kshasdrthe  'vataritah  \  smara  * 
sarpa-lhujam  devam  Vainateyam  mahdbalam  \  sa  sarpa-landhdd  ghofeb 
tu  yiivdm  sammochayishyati  \  sa  tasya  vachanam  snitvd  Rtighavo  Raghu- 
nandanah  \  sasmdra  Garudam  devam  bhujagdndm  bhaydvaham  \  "  Then 
Vayu,  approaching  him,  spoke  this  word  in  his  ear :  '  Rama,  'Rama, 
great-armed,  recollect  thyself  in  thy  heart :  thou  art  the  divine  Nara- 
yana,  who  hast  descended  [to  earth]  on  account  of  the  Rakshasas. 
Call  to  mind  the  snake-devouring  god,  the  strong  Yainateya  (the  bird 
Garuda) ;  he  shall  deliver  you  twain  from  the  dreadful  bonds  of  the 
serpents.'  Hearing  Vayu's  words,  Rama  called  to  mind  the  god 
Garuda,  the  terrifier  of  serpents." 

The  absence  of  these  verses  from  the  Bombay  edition  renders  it 
probable  that  they  formed  no  part  of  the  original  Ramayana.  *  But 
in  addition  to  this  fact,  another  proof  to  the  same  effect  is  to  be  found 
in  the  circumstance  that  in  the  verses  which  follow  shortly  after  in 
both  recensions  Rama,  after  being  oured  by  Garuda,  is  represented 
as  inquiring,  and  consequently,  as  being  ignorant,  who  his  benefactor 
is,  although,  according  to  G^fresio's  edition,  he  had  just  before  called 
Garuda  to  mind,*«'.e.  sum\noned  him.  It  is  true  Rama  had  been  sense- 
less; but  he  had  regained  his  consciousness  so  far  as  to  call  upon  Garuda: 
so  that  in  Gorresio's  text  it  must  be  implied, — unless  we  are  to  suppose 
it  to  be  inconsistent  with  itself, — that  he  again  became  unconscious. 
The  verses  in  which  this  is  shown  ar^'as  follows  (Bombay  ed.  50,  37  ff. 
=  Go?r.  ed.,  W-.rWii.) :  3am  dgatam  alhiprekshya  t\ugds  te  vipradu- 
druvuh  \  yais  tu  tau  purushau  baddhau  sara-bhiitair  mah&balaih  \  tatah 
$tiparnah  Kakutsthau  sprishtvd  pratyabhinandya  cha  \  vimamarsa  cha 
pdnilhyam  mukhe  chandra-sama-prabhe  \  Vkinateyena  samsprishtds  tayoh 
samruruhur 18  vrandh  \  suvarne  cha  tanu  snigdhe  tayor  dsu  babhuvatuh  \ 
18  Yatha-purvain  samrudha^mumsah  abhuvan  \  Comm. 


454  APPENDIX. 

40.  Tejo  vlryam  balarn  chaujah  utsdliascha  mahtigunah  \  pradarsanancha 
buddhisclia  smritis  cha  dviguna  19  tayoh  \  tuv  uttKdpya  mahdtejdh  Garudo 
Fasavopamau  \  libliau  cha  sasvaje  hrishto  Rdnws '  chainam  uvdcha  ha  \ 
Ihavat-prasddad  vyasanam  Rdvani-prabhavam  muhat  \  wpdyena  vyati- 
Jcrdntau  sighram  cha  l)alinau  kritau  \ .  yathd  tdtarn  Dasarathsm  yatltd 
'jancha  pitdmaliam  \  tathd  bhavantam  dsddya  •  hridayam  me  prasidati  \ 
44.  Ko  lhavdn  rupa-sampanno  divya-srag-anulepanah*  (The  last  line 
is  identical  with,  that  in  Gorresio's  edition)  \  "Beholding  him 
arrived,  the  powerful  serpents  by  whom,  in  the  form  of  arrows, 
these  two  heroes  had  been  bound,  took  to  flight.  Then  Garuda,  having 
touched  and  saluted  the  descendants  of  Kakutstha,  soothed  with  his 
hands  their  faces  brilliant  as  the  moon.  Touched  by  Garuda,  their 
wounds  closed  up,  and  their  bodies  became  speedily  sleek  and  of  a 
beautiful  colour.  40.  Their  fire,  strength,  force,  vigour,  and  energy 
became  many  degrees  greater,  and  their  insight,  understanding,  and 
memory,  were  doubled.  The  powerful  Garuda  raised  up  and  embraced 
those  two  •  [princes]  resembling  Indra ;'  and  Rama,  delighted,  thus 
addressed  him :  '  By  thy  favour,  and  through  thy  appliances,  we  have 
quickly  got  over  the  great  calamity  inflicted  by  the  son  of  Bavana, 
and  have  become  strong.  Since  I  have  found  thee,  who  art  as  my 
father  Dasaratha,  and  my  ancestor  Aja,  my  heart  rejoices.  44.  Who 
art  thou,20  distinguished  by  beauty,  adorned  with  celestial  garlands, 
and  unguents  ?'  "  etc. 

e; 

19  In  his  remarks  on  w.  40,  41,  the  commentator,  in  the  Bombay  ed.,  explains 
this  as  follows :  Dviguna  Vainateya-sparsat  puwflto  'py  adhika  \  atra  anyair  devair 
avattrya  bhagcmato  Ramasya  mula-murter  ajnaya  itpakarah  san^vadito  Garudena  tu 
sva-rupatah  eva  Hi  bodhyam  \    .  .  .  .  "  Though  formerly  great,  their  insight,  etc., 
became  doubled  from  the  touch  of  Garuda.     Here  it  is  to  be  understood  that  the 
assistance  was  rendered  by  the  command  of  the  divine  Rama,  the  root  [of  all  things] 
by  other  gods  descending,  to  the  earth,  but  bj^  Garuda  in  his  own  form." 

20  In  his  remarks  on  this  verse,  the  same  commentator  says:  " Ko  bhcvmn"  ity 
ayamprasno 'pi  manusliya-sarlrochita-i^^t'tmliarah.  eva  tat-satyatva-pratyapanarthah \ 
atra  Rama-samlpagrmana-paryantam  paksny^MiyMjivu,'~~?at'i/a  sannidhi-iyatrena 
naga-bandhanancha  nirasya  Raghava-sparsanady-artfiam  purushdJfi'rer<.a  vyavahri- 
tavan  iti  bodhyam  \  "  This  question  'who  art  thou'?'  also  harmonizes  with  [Rama's 
assumption  of  ]  a  human  body,  and  is  designed  to  convince  men  of  its  jeality.     Here 
it  is  to  be  understood  that  the  author  accommodates  to  Rama's  human  character  the 
entire  narrative  from  [Garuda' s]  appearance  in  the  form  of  a  bird,  his  removal,  by 
his  mere  proximity,  of  the  fetters  of  the  snakes,  and  his  touching  Rama,  and  ending 
with  his  near  approach  to  the  latter,"  etc. 


APPENDIX.  455 

The  corresponding  passage  in  Gorresio's  edition  (sect.  26,  vv.  16  if.)- 
does  not,  as  I  have  intimated,  differ  'materially  from  the  above,  and  in 
it,  in  like  manner,  "Rama  is  distinctly  represented  as  inquiring  who 
Garuda  is. 

In  renly  to  Rama's  Question, Garuda  tells  him  (w.  46  if.)  .who  he 
is,  says  he  is  his  friend,  p,nd  that  n6  one  but  himself,  whether  god  or 
Asura,  could  have  delivered  Rama  from  ifce  bonds  of  the  serpents, 
which  had  been  turnpd'into  arrows  by  the  magic  art  of  Indrajit.  He 
warns  him  that  in  dealing  with  the  treacherous  Rakshasas  he  must 
proceed  warily,  and  finally  assures  him  that  he  shall  slay  Ravana  &nd 
recover  Sita;  and  then  departs  after  walking  round  and  embracing 
him  (v.  60  :  Pradalishinam  tatah  kritvd  parishvajya  cha}?1 

There  is  another  passage  in  Gorresio's  edition  (book  vi.,  sect/  33)  in 
which  it  is  related  that  after  the  fall  of  Prahasta,  one  of  the  Rakshasas, 
Mandodflri,  Ravana' s  queen,  went  into  the  assembly  to  dissuade  her 
husband  from  contending  any  further  against  Rama,  when  she  is  in- 
troduced as  saying  (v.  25  f.) :  Na  cha  mdnusha-mdiro  'sau  Rdmo 
Dasarathdtmajah  \  ekena  yena  vai  purvam  lahavo  rtilcshasdh  hatdh  \  "Nor 
is  this  Rama  a  mere  man,  he  by  whom  singly  many  Rakshasas  have 
formerly  been  slain."  The  same  idea  is  repeated  in  the  two  following 
verses,  where  the  number  of  the  slain  and  the  names  of  some  of  »them 
are  given. 

The  passage  in  which  these  verses  occur  is  not,  however,  to  be 
found  in  the  corresponding  section  (the  fifty-ninth)  of  the  Bombay 
edition,  which  omits  verses  6-51  of  the  thirty-third,  and  the  whole 
of  the  thirty-fourth  section^ of  Gorresio's  edition. 

In  the  fifty-ninth  section  of  the  same  book  (Bombay  ed.)  it  is  related 
that  Lakshmana  was  wounded  by  Ravana  with  an  iron  lance  given  to 
the  latter  by  Brahma  (v.  105-7);  but  that  when  Ravana  tried  to  lift  his 
fallen  foe,  he  was  unable  (v.  103  f.) :  Himavdn  Mandaro  Merus  trailo- 
kyam  vd  sahdmaraih  \  .salcyam  Ihujdtoyani  uddhartum  na  sakyo  Bharatd- 
nujafy  |  saktya  lry??ty1T~tp!  •£„ Dmitris  tddito  ''pi  stcwantare  \  Vishnor 
amlmamsya-bhdgam  dtmdnam  pratyanusmarat  \  "Himavat,  Mandara, 

o  21  From  this  last  circumstance  the  commentator  infers  the  divine  nature  of  Rama. 
His  words  are :  Pradakshinam  kritva  iti  anena  dipya-devatavztaro  Hamah  iti  sarvan 
pYakrita-kapln  praty  api  bodhitam  \  "  By  these  words,  '  having  walked  round  him, 
with  the  right  side  towards  him,'  it  is  intimated  even  to  alkthe  ordinary  monkeys 
that  Rama  was  an  incarnation  of  a  celestial  deity." 


456  APPENDIX. 

Meru,  or  the  three  worlds  with  the  immortals,  might  he  lifted  hy 
him  with  his  arms,  but  not  the 'younger  brother  of  Bharata.  But 
Lakshmana,  though  smitten  on  the  chest  with  the  lance  given  by 
Brahma,  recollected  himself  'co  be  aa  incomprehensible  portion  of 
Vishnu."22  Similar  words  are  again  ascribed '  to  him  in^v.  120: 
Vislmor  Wiugain  amlmdrnsyam  dtmfinam  lpratyQnw3maran.  Expressions 
of  the  same  purport  occur*  in  the  parallel  verses  in  Gerresio's  edition, 
sect.  36,  vv.  86,  88,  and  98.  The  words  in  v.  ci8,  are  Vishnor  achintyo 
yo  bhdcfo  mdnusham  deham  aztldtaTi  \  "The  inconceivable  portion  of 
Vishnu  residing  in  a  human  body."  The  expressions,  however,  may  be 
later  interpolations  in  both  editions.  In  vv.  122  f.  of  the  same  section 

22  The  commentator's  note  on  v.  110  is  as  follows :  Amoghaya  Brahma-dattaya  sta- 
nantare  dhatah  Sautnitrir  Vishnor  amlmamsyam  niskamsaya-Vishnu-bhcigatvavantam 
iyattayd  cJtintayitum  asakyam  va  Vishnor  bhdgam  atmanam  pratyanusmarat  anva- 
smarat\  na  hi  svlyam  sram  hinasty  ity  dlayena  Brahma-s'akti-muldya  (?)  tranartham 
bhagavat-tejo  'ins  ah  eva  aham  asmi  iti  dhyatavan  \  nata-vad  anglkrita-mamishyalvasya 
itareshdm  dridha-pratlty-artha-param  na  sarvadd  tathd  dhydnam  \evam  cha  Brahma- 
bhavanayd  Lakshmanena  sva-sarlrasya,  garlyastvam  apdditam  ity  uktam  bhavati  \ 
"  Being  struck  on  the  breast  with  the  unfailing  (dart)  given  by  Brahma,  Lakshmana 
recollected  himself  to  be  indubitably  a  portion  of  Vishnu,  or  to  be  a  portion  of  Vishnu 
which  could  not  be  conceived  of  as  being  of  such  and  such  magnitude.  With  refer- 
ence to  the  principle  that  nothing  destroys  that  which  belongs  to  itself,  he  reflected, 
with  a,  view  to  his  preservation  from  the  lance  of  Brahma  (?),  that  he  was  a  part  of  the 
divine  energy.  As  he  had,  like  an  actor,  assumed  the  human  form,  this  reflection  of 
his  had  the  object  of  confirming  the  belief  of  others,  and  it  is  not  (to  be  imagined)  that 
he  always  so  reflected.  And  so  too  by  conceiving  himself  as  Brahma,  he  made  his  body 
very  ponderous."  It  is  afterwards  said  in  verse  117  that  Hanumat  took  Lakshmana 
in  his  arms  and  carried  him  to  his  brottttr,  and  that,  though  he  could  not  be  moved 
by  his  enemies,  he  made  himself  light  to  Hanumat  in  consequence  of  the  latter's 
friendship  and  devotion.  On  this  the  comnientatorvremarks:  Idam  cha  bhakta-matra- 
sugrahatvam  bhagavato  bhagavad-avataranam  cha  svabhava-siddha^n  eva  iti  bodhyam\ 
evam  cha  Rama-Lakshmanayor  ajnana-saktimatva-tatparyataya  bJiasanianani  vacha- 
nani  manusha-vesha-nirvahana-matra-parani  iti  bodhyam  \  tad  uktam  Bhagavate  \ 
"  Marty  avatar  as  tv  ilia  martya-sikshanam  raksho-badhayaiva  na  kevalam,  vibhoh  \ 
kuto  'iiyatha  syuh  ramatah  sve  atmanah  Sltq-kritani  vyasananlsvarasya"  \  "This 
capability  of  being  taken  up  by  a  devoted  person  alone  is  to  be  understood  as  result- 
ing from  the  nature  of  the  Deity  and  of  TJjs  incarnations.  And  so  it  is  to  be  under- 
stood that  the  expressions  which  seem  to  ascil;.-?-thCfr^.!::Hty  of  ignorance  to  Rama 
and  Lakshmana  are  only  intended  to  serve  the  purpose  of  carrying" uuf  tttfcl.;  characters 
in  their  human  disguise.  This  is  declared  in  the  Bhagavata  Purana  (the  verse  occurs 
in  v.  19,  5,  as  I  learn  from  Bbhtlingk  and  Eoth's  reference,  s.v.  sikshana],  'Tke 
Lord's  incarnation  as  a  man  on  this  earth  was  meant  for  the  instruction  of  men,  and 
had  not  merely  in  view  the  slaugnter  of  the  Rakshasa.  Otherwise,  how  could  thp 
Lord,  the  Spirit,  whose^  delight  is  in  himself,  have  undergone  the  sufferings  arising 
from  Situ?'" 


APPENDIX.  457 

(fifty- ninth,  Bombay  ed.)  Hanumat  tells  Rama  to  mount  on  his  back, 
as  Vishnu  on  that  of  Garutmat  or  Garuda  ( Vishnur  yathd  Garutmantam 
druhya);  and  in  verae  ,125,  Rama  is  said  to  have  rushed  on  Ravana 

as  Vishnu  rushed  on  Vairochana  ( Vairochandm  iva  Icruddho  Vishnur 
.,.,.,  .  ^ 

^tyadl).   .  „ 

In  the  same  sect.  (6*9,  J35  ft'.,  Bombay  ed.)  it  is  related  that  Ravana 
was  defeated  by>Rama,  but  spared,  and  sent  back  to  Lanka.  After  his 
return  he  thus  speaks  (sect.  60,  v.  5  ff.) :  Sarvam  tat  khalu  me  mogham 
yat  taptam  paramam  tapah  \  yat  saiildno  Mahendrena  mdnushena 
vinirjitah  \  6.  Idam  tad  Brahmano  ghoram  vakyam  mdm  dbhyupasthitaiii-\ . 
"  mdnushebkyo  vijdnlhi  bhayam  tvam  iti  tat  tathd  \  7.  Deva-ddnava- 
gandharvair  yaksha-rukshasa-pannagaih  \  abadhyatvam  mayd  prolctam 
mdnushebhyo  na  ydchitam "  |  8.  Tarn  imani  mdnusham  manye  Rdmam 
Dasarathdtmajam  \  Ikshvdku-kula-jdtena  Anaranyena^  yat  purd  \  9. 
"Uitpatsyati  hi  mad-vamse  purusho  rdkshasddhama  \  yas  tvdm  sa-putram 
sdmdtyam  sa-balam  sdsva-sdrathim  \  10.  Nihanishyati  sangrdme  tvdm 
kul~ddhama  durmaten  \  sapto  'ham  Vedavatyd  cha  yathd  sd  dharshitd  purd  \ 
11.  Seyam  Slid  malidbhdgd  jdtd  Janaka-nandiril  \  TJmd  Nandlsvaras 
chdpi  Rambhd  Varuna-kanyakd  \  12.  Yathoktds2*  tan  mayd  prdptam  na 
mithyd  rishi-bhdshitam  \  etad  eva  samdgamya  yatnam  kartum  ihdrhatJia  \ 
"All  the  extreme  austerity  that  I  have  undergone  is  then  vain,  s*ince 

23  See  "Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  p.  371 :  "  Whose  (Sambhuta's)  son  was  Anaranya, 
who  was  slain  by  Havana  in  his  triumphant  progress  through  the  nations"  (Mto 
'naranyas  \  tarn  Havana  dig-vijayejaghana).  JEEere,  and  in  the  legend  related  in  the 
second  volume  of  this  work,  p.  421,  note  129,  a  set  of  events  different  from  those 
narrated  in  the  earlier  books  of  the  Ramayana,  is  referred  to. 

The  story  of  Anaranya  is,  howe»%r,  told  in  the  Uttara  Kanda  of  the  Ramayana, 
section  19.  Dushkipta  (sic),,  Suratha,  Gadhi,  Gaya,  Pururavas  (though,  as  the 
commentator  remarks,  they  lived  at  different  periods  \bhinna-bhinna-kala-vartino  'pi 
DushkantadayaJi  sva-sva-kale  Jtavanam  prati  jitatva-vadaih  vara-danad  uktavantati], 
yet  they  all  in  their  OWP»  times)  submitted,  without  fighting,  acknowledging  them- 
selves conquered,  to  Ravana  on  his  victor?ous  march  through  the  world  in  consequence 
of  the  boon  Brahma  had  given  to  him  (v.  5).  ,Auaranya,  a  descendant  of  Ikshvaku, 
and  king  of  Ayodhya,  however^when  cal^iTupon  either  to  fight,  or  acknowledge 
himself>conquereds.9;-pf):rs  ttiefonmer  alternative  (v.  9);  but  his*  army  is  overcome, 
and  he  himself  i3  thrown  from  his  chariot  (v.  21).  When  Ravana  triumphs  over  his 
prostrate  foe,  the  latter  says  that  he  has  been  vanquished,  not  by  him,  but  by  fate, 
and  that  Ravana  is  only  the  instrument  of  his  overthrow  (v.  26) ;  and  he  predicts 
that  Ravana  should  one  day  be  slain  by  his  descendtYit  Rama  (v.  29  :  Utpatsyate  Jcule 
liy '  asminn  Ikshvakunam  mahatmanam  \  Ramo  Dasarathir  nama  yas  te  pranan 
harishyati). 

24  Yathoktavantah  ....  yad  uchus  tananaya  iti pathantaram  \  Comm. 


458  APPENDIX.         , 

I,  though  the  equal  of  Indra,  have  been  overcome  by  a  man.  This 
is  the  direful  word  of  'Brahma  that  has  now  reached  me,  [when  he 
said]  :  '  Know  that  thy  great  cause  of  apprehension  is  from  men. 
I  have  decreed  thy  indestructibility  By  gods,  Danavas,  Grandharvas, 
Yakshas,  Rakshasas,  and  Pannagas:  ^>ut  thou  hast  asked  no  [security] 
from  men.'  This  man  I  consider  'to  be'  Rama,  the  son  of  Dasaratha, 
since  I  was  formerly  thus  cursed  by  Anaranya  of  the  nice  of  Ikshvaku; 
'  There  shall  arise  among  my  posterity  a  man.  who  shall  slay  thee  in 
battle,  thou  lowest  of  Raksh£sas,  and  wicked  wretch,  along  with  thy 
,-RCiis,  ministers,  hosts,  and  charioteers.'  And  I  was  also  cursed  by 
Vedavati  when  she  was  insulted  by  me  :  it  is  she  who  has  been  born 
as  the  great  Sita,  the  gladdener  of  Janaka.  And  that  which  TJma, 
Nandlsvara,  Rambha,  and 'the  daughter  of  Varuna25  (Punjikasthala) 
uttered,  has  befallen  me.  What  has  been  spoken  by  rishis26  is  never 
falsified.  Wherefore,  ye  must  assemble,  and  make  exertions.'? 

In  this  passage  it  will  be  observed  that  there  is  no  express  reference 
to  the  divine  nature  of  Rama :  and  it  is  conceivable  that  the  original 
legend  may  have  represented  him  as  being,  even  in  his  human  capacity, 
of  sufficient  prowess  to  slay  the  king  of  the  Rakshasas. 

[Most  of  the  stories  referred  to  in  the  preceding  passage  are  given 
in  tLe  Uttara  Kanda,  and  I  shall  supply  an  abstract  of  them  here. 
That  of  Anaranya  will  be  found  in  note  23. 

,The  rather  pretty  story  of  YedavatI  is  related  in  the  seventeenth 
section  of  that  book,  vv.  1  n°.,c#s  follows:  Ravana,  in  the  course  of 
his  progress  through  the  world,  comes  to  the  forest  on  the  Himalaya, 
where  he  sees  a  damsel  of  brilliant  beauty,  but  in  ascetic  garb,  of 
whom  he  straightway  becomes  enamoured.,,  He  telis  her  that  such 
an  austere  life  is  unsuited  to  her  youth  and  attractions,  and  asks  who 
she  is,  and  why  she  is  leading  an  ascetic  existence.  She  answers  that 
she  is  called  Vedavati,  and  is  the  Vocal  daughter  (vanmayl  kanya]  of 
Vrihaspati's  son,  the  rishi  Kuisdhvaja,  sprung  from  him  during  his 
constant  study  of  the  Veda.  The  ^uu^T^'faiiuirasyas,^  etc.,  she  says, 
sought  to  woo  her,  but  her  father  would  give  her  to  no  'one'  else  than 

25  The  stories  connected  with  all  these  names  are  briefly  referred  to  by  the  com- 
mentator. 

26  The  commentator  remarks  here :  Rishi-padena  tapo-yuktah  ucliyante  \    "  The 
word  "rishi"  denotes  persons  distinguished  by  austerity."     It  would  thus  refer  to 
Vedavati  and  others. 


APPENDIX.  459 

to  Vishnu,  the  lord  of  the  world,  whom  he  desired  for  his  son-in-law 
(v.  12 :  Pitus  tu  mama  jtimdtd-  VisJmuh  kila  suresvarah  \  abhipretas 
trilokesas  tasmdn  ndntfasya  me  pita  \  datum  icJihati  tasmai  tu}.  This 
resolution  provoked  l^'ambhu,  king.of  the  Daityas,  who  slew  her  father, 
Kusadhvaja,  while  sleeping,  on  T^hich  her  mother  (whose  name  is  not 
given),  after  embracing  his  body,  entered  into  the  fire  (15).  Vedavati 
then  proceeds  (v.'16) :  Tato  manor  atham  satyam  pitur  Ndrdyanam  prati  \ 
karomiti  tarn  evdham  tiridayena  samudvahe  \  iti  pratijndm  druhya  chardmi 
vipulam  tapah  |  ....  18.  Ndrdyano  mama  patir  na  tv  any  ah  puru- 
shottamdt  \  dsraye  niyamaih  ghoram  Ndrdyana-panpsayti  \  "In  order- 
that  I  may  fulfil  this  desire  of  my  father  in  respect  of  JSTarayana, 
I  wed  him  with  my  heart.37  Having  entered  into  this  engagement, 
I  practise  great  austerity.  Narayana,  and  no  other  than  he, 'Puru- 
shottama,  is  my  husband.  From  the  desire  of  obtaining  him,  I  resort 
to  this  Severe  observance."  Havana's  passion  is  not  in  the  least 
diminished  by  this  explanation,  and  he  urges  that  it  is  the  old  alone 
who  should  seek  to  become  distinguished  by  accumulating  merit 
through  austerity ;  prays  that  she  who  is  so  young  and  beautiful  will 
become  his  bride;  and  boasts  that  he  is  superior  to  Vishnu  (v.  24). 
She  rejoins  that  no  one  but  he  would  thus  contemn  that  deity.  On 
receiving  this  reply,  he  touches  the  hair  of  her  head  with  the  tip  of 
his  finger  (27).  She  is  greatly  incensed,  and  forthwith  cuts  off  her 
hair,  and  tells  him  that  as  he  has  so  insulted  her,  she  cannot  continue 
to  live,  but  will  enter  into  the  firei*t>efore  his  eyes.  She  goes  on 
(v.  31  ff.) :  Yasmdt  tu  dharshitd  chdham  tvayd  pdpdtmand  vane  \ 
tasmdt  tava  ladhdrtham  hi  Aimutpatsyaty  aham  (samutpatsyati  samut- 
patsye  ily  arthah  \  Comm.}  punah  \  nahi  sakyah  striyd  hantum  purushah 
pdpa-nischayah  \  sdpe  tvayi  mayotsrisJite  tapasas  cha  vyayo  lhavet  \ 
yadi  tv  asti  mayd  kindhit  Itritam  dattam  kutam  tathd  I  tasmdt  tv  ayoni- 
jd  sddhvl  lhaveyam  dharminah  sutd  \  evam  uktvd  pravishtd  sd  jvalitam 
jdtavedasam  \  papdta  cKa  divo  divyd  "-"tishpa-vrishtih  samantatah  \  saishd 
JanalTt-rajgisya-prasutd  tanaifd  pralho  \  tava  Ihdryd  mahdbdho  Vishnus 
tvam  hi  sandtanah  \  purvam  krodha-hatah  satrur  yayd  'sau  nihatas  taya  \ 
updsrayitvd  saildbhas  tava  viryam  amdnusham  \  "  '  Since  I  have  been 
insulted  in  the  forest  by  thee  who  art  wicked-hearted,  I  shall  be  born 

27  This  language  offers  an  exact  parallel  to  that  of  devout  female  ascetics  in  other 
parts  of  the  world.  .> 


460  APPENDIX. 

again  for  thy  destruction.  For  a  man  of  evil  designs  cannot  be  slain 
by  a  woman ;  and  the  merit  of  my  austerity  would  be  lost  if  I  were  to 
launch  a  curse  against  thee.  But  if  I  have  performed,  or  bestowed,  or 
sacrificed,  aught,  may  I  be  born  the  f  irtuous  daughter,  not  produced 
from  the  womb,  of  a  righteous  man.'  "( Having  thus  spoken,  she  entered 
the  blazing  fire.  Then  a  shower  of  celestial,  flbwers  fell  from  every 
part  of  the  sky.  It  is  sne,  lord,  who  (having  been  'Yedavati  in  the 
Krita  age,  v.  38)  has  been  born  (in  the  Tretir.  age,  v.  38)  as  the 
daughter  of  king  Janaka,  anSl  [has  become]  thy  bride;  for  thou  art 
-the  eternal  Vishnu.  The  mountain-like  enemy  who  was  [virtually] 
destroyed  before  by  her  wrath,  has  now  been  slain  by  her,  after  she 
had  associated  herself  with  thy  superhuman  energy."  On  this  the 
commentator  remarks:  Aneha,  Slid  eva  Rdvana-ladhe  mukhyam  kdranam 
Rdme  tit,  hantritvam  dropitam  iti  suchitam  \  "  By  this  it  is  signified 
that  Sita  was  the  principal  cause  of  Ravana's  death ;  but  the  function 
of  destroying  him  is  ascribed  to  Rama."  On  the  words  "thou  art 
Vishnu,"  in  the  preceding  verse,  the  same  commentator  remarks : 
Anen*  Sltdydh  Lakshmltvam  sphutam  evoktam  \  tad  uktam  Pardsarena 
"  Rdghavatve  'bhavat  Sita  Rukminl  Krishna- janmani"  iti  \  "  By  this 
it  is  clearly  affirmed  that  Sita  was  Lakshmi.  Parasara  says  :  '  In  the 
god'&life  as  Rama,  she  became  Sita,  and  in  his  birth  as  Krishna  [she 
became]  Rukminl.'  " 

rl  have  not  noticed  in  the  TJttara  Kanda  any  separate  legend  about 
TJmar  but  the  commentator23  .connects  this  allusion  to  her  in  the 
preceding  passage  (vi.  60,  11)  with  the  following  story  about  Nandis- 
vara,  which  is  thus  told  in  the  sixteenth  section  of  the  Uttara 
Kanda  (v.  1  ff.) :  After  _his  victory  over  Kuvera,  r-Ravana  went  to 
S'aravana,  the  birthplace  of  Karttikeya.  Ascending  the  mountain,  he 
sees  another  delightful  wood,  where  his  car  Pu^hpaka  stops,  and  will 
proceed  no  further.  He  then  beholds1  a  formidable  dark  tawny-coloured 
dwarf,  called  Nandisvara,  a  follower  of  Mahadeva,  who  desires  him 
to  halt,  as  that ''deity  is  sporting  on^tHe^ouHtain,  jjnd  has  made  it 
inaccessible  to  all  creatures,  the  gods  included  (v.  10).  Ravana  angrily 

29  His  words  are :  Tatra  Uma^apah  \  Kaildia-sikhara-chalana-velaiiam  Ravanasya 
stri-nimittam  maranam  ity  evaih-rupam  ity  ahuh  \  "They  say  that  at  the  time  when 
he  shook  the  summit  of  Kailasa,  a  curse  was  pronounced  on  Ravana  that  he  should 
die  on  account  of  a  woman." 


APPENDIX.  461 

demands  who  S'ankara  (Mahadeva)  is,  and  laughs  contemptuously  at 
Nandisvara,  who  has  the  face  of  ^  monkey.  Nandisvara,  who  was 
another  body  (apard  la^h]  of  S'iva,  being  incensed  at  this  contempt 
of  his  monkey  form,  declares  tna{;  beings,  possessing  the  same  shape 
as  himseif,  and  of  similar  energy,  ^  monkeys,  shall  be  produced  to 
destroy  Havana's  race  (v.  17 :  Tasmdd  mad-vlrya-samyuktdh  mad- 
rupa-sama-tejasah  \  utpatsyanti  badhdrtham  hi  kulasya,  tava  vdnardK). 
Nandlsvara  adds  tha'J  he  could  easily  kill  Ravana  now,  but  that  he 
has  been  already  slain  by  his  own  deeds  (v.  20).  Ravana  threatens 
(v.  23  ff.)  that  as  his  car  has  been  stopped,  he  will  pluck  up  the  • 
mountain  by  the  roots,  asking  in  virtue  of  what  power  S'iva  con- 
tinually sports  on  that  spot,  and  boasting  that  he  must  now  be  made 
to  know  his  danger.  Ravana  then  throws  his  arms  under  the  moun- 
tain, which,  being  lifted  by  him,  shakes,  and  makes  the  hosts  of 
Rudra  tremble,  and  even  Parvatl  herself  quake,  and  cling  to  her 
husband  (v.  26 :  Chaclidla  Parvatl  chdpi  tadd  slishtd  Mahesvarani). 
S'iva,  however,  presses  down  the  mountain  with  his  great  toe,  and 
along  with  it  crushes  the  arms  of  Ravana,  who  utters  a  loud  cry, 
which  shakes  all  creation.  Ravana's  counsellors  then  exhort  him  to 
propitiate  Mahadeva,  the  blue-throated  lord  of  TJma,  who  on  being 
lauded  will  become  gracious.  Ravana  accordingly  praises  Mahadeva 
with  hymns,  and  weeps  for  a  thousand  years.  Mahadeva  is  then 
propitiated  (v.  35),  lets  go  Ravana's  arms,  says  his  name  shall  i)e 
Havana  from  the  cry  (rava)  he  hatVmttered,  and  sends  him  away, 
with  the  gift  of  a  sword  bestowed  on  him  at  his  request  (v.  43). 

The  legend  of  Rambha  vS  narrated  in  the  twenty-sixth  section  of 
the  Uttara  Kanda.  Ravana  goes  with  his  army  to  Kailasa,  to  conquer 
the  gods.  He  there  sees  the  Rambha,  the  most  beautiful  of  all  the 
Apsarases,  and  is  smkten  with  her  charms  (v.  20).  She  says  she  is 
properly  his  daughter-in-law,  being  the  wife  of  Nalakuvara  (son  of 
his  brother  Kuvera),  with  whom  ?be  has  an  assignation,  and  cannot 
there R» re  jgceiv3  his  addresses  (v.  34).  Ravana  says  the  Apsarases 
are  mere  courtezans,  without  any  husbands,  and  ravishes  her  (v.  41). 
She  goes  and  reports  the  outrage  to  Nalakuvara  (46),  who,  after  touch- 
ing all  his  organs  of  sense  (chakshur-ddlndtiya-ganam  sarvam  \  Comm.) 
with  water,  launches  the  following  curse  against  Ravana :  v.  54. 
ATcdmd  tena  yasmdt  tvam  laldd  bhqdre  pradharshitd  \  55.  Tasmdt  sa 


462  APPENDIX. 

yuvattm  anydni  ndkdmdm  upaydsyati  \  yadd  hy  akdmdm  Icdmdrto 
dharshayishyati  yoshitam  \  murdhd  tu  saptadhd  tasya  saJcallbhavitd  tadd  \ 
"  Since  thou,  kind  lady,  who  hadst  no  pass/ on  for  him,  hast  been 
forcibly  insulted  by  him,  he  shall  nqt  'approach  any  other  damsel  who 
does  not  reciprocate  his  passion.  Foj'  when  through  passion  he  shall 
ravish  any  woman  who  has  no  passion  for  him,  his  head  shall  split 
into  seven  fragments."  Hearing  of  this  curse,  Raftma  resolves  to 
abstain  from  offering  violence  to  women.  l 

I  have  not  noticed  in  the  T/ttara  Kanda  any  story  about  the  daughter 
-of  Yaruna,  but  the  commentator  on  the  text  (vi.  60,  11)  explains  the 
allusion  to  her  thus:  Varuna-kanyakd  Punjikasthald  tan-nimittam 
brahma-sdpah  strl-dharshane  marana-riipah  \  "The  daughter  of  Yaruna 
was  Punjikasthala.  On  her  account,  a  curse  of  Brahma,  involving 
the  penalty  of  death,  [was  pronounced]  on  the  rape  of  women."] 

After  expressing  himself  as  above  (p.  458),  Havana  ddsires  his 
brother  Kumbhakarna  (a  monster  who,  owing  to  the  curse  of  Brahma,29 
slept  for  six  months  at  a  time,  and  remained  awake  for  a  single  day) 
to  be  awakened.  This  is  with  immense  difficulty  effected.  Kumbha- 
karna asks  (book  vi.,  sect.  60,  Bombay  ed.,  vv.  67  ff.)  why  they  have 
awakened  him,  and  is  told  that  they  stand  in  dread,  not  of  the  gods, 
but  of  a  man,  Rama  (v.  72 :  Ifdnmhun  no  bhayafii  rujan  tumulam 
samprabddhate  \  ityadi) ;  when  he  assures  them  that  he  will  destroy 
their  foes,  and  himself  drink  the  blood  of  Rama  and  Lakshmana. 
After  drinking  two  thousand  ja^  of  liquor,  he  goes  to  see  and  consult 
with  his  brother  Ravana ;  who,  in  answer  to  his  inquiry,  describes  to 
him  (sect.  62)  the  present  position  of  anHrs,  and  the  necessity  there 
is  to  obtain  his  assistance.  Kumbhakarna,  ia  reply,  ofelivers  (sect.  63, 
Bombay  ed.,  vv.  2-21)  a  moral  discourse  on  the  wickedness  of  Ravana's 
conduct,  such  as  we  should  scarcely  have  expected  from  the  speaker's 
antecedents;29  and  is  told  by  Ravana  in  answer  (vv.  23-27)  that  this 
is  not  the  time  for  such  labourea  lectures,  but  for  action,  to  which  he 
calls  upon  him  to'  proceed,  if  he  has  any  regard  tor  hitn,  or.-prete'Asions 
to  valour.  Kumbhakarna  then  promises  (vv.  30  ff.  of  the  same 
section)  to  destroy  the  enemies  of  his  brother.  But  before  this  last 
speech  of  Kumbhakarna,  Which  is  given  in  the  forty-second  section 
of  Gorresio's  recension,  that  text  introduces  another  speech  of 
29  See  sect  61,  vv.  19  ff. 


APPENDIX.  463 

the    same    personage,    which,    occupies   vv.   30-53   of   the    fortieth 
section,  and  a  further  speech  of  Ravana  which  fills  the  forty-first 
section ;  both  of  which  «\re  wanting  in  the  Bombay  edition,  and  even 
in  one  of  the  MSS.  consulted  by  f^ignor  Gorresio,  as  we  learn  from  his 
Preface,  Vol.  v.,  p.  xlvi. ;  and  might.%as  he  thinks,  be  omitted  without 
detriment,  or  perhaps  with  advantage,  to  the  connexion  of  the  ideas, 
and  the  march  o*f  the  ppem.     Some  mention  must,  however,  be  made 
of  this  speech,  as  in  "it  Kumbhakarna  gives  the  same  account  of  the 
divine  origin  of  Rama,  as  we  have  already  met  with  in  the  earlier  part  of 
the  poem  (see  p.  168  ff.,  above).     He  says  that  one  day  he  had  seen 
the  divine  sage  Narada,  who  had  told  him  that  he- had  just  returned 
from  an  assembly  of  the  gods  who  had  met  to  take  counsel  for  the 
destruction  of  the  Rakshasas,  on  which  occasion  Brahma  had  spoken 
as   follows  (sect.  vi.  40,   44  ff.,  ed.   Gorr.):    Evatn  ulite  tu  vachane 
Brahmd  3devdn  uvdcha  ha  \  abadhyatvam  mayd  dattam  deva-daityaischa 
rdkshasaih  \  mdnusJiebhyo  bhayam  tasya  vdnarebliyascha  devatdh  \  surd- 
sura-samuhe  'pi  badhas  tasya  na  vidyate  \  tasmdd  esJia  Harir  devah  padma- 
ndbhas  trivikrdmah  \  putro  Dasarathasydstu  cliaturbdhuh  sandtanah  \ 
bhavanto  vasudhdfh  gatvd  Fishnor  asya  mahdtmanah  \  vunarunum  tanum 
kritvd  sahdyatvam  harishijatha  \  "When  [the  priest  of  the  gods  Vrihas- 
pati]  had  thus  spoken,  Brahma  said  to  the  gods :   '  I  have  conferred 
[on  Havana]  indestructibility  by  gods,  Daityas  and  Rakshasas :  he  has, 
0  gods,  to  fear  men  and  monkeys.     Nor  can  he  be  killed  by  all  the 
Suras  (gods)  or  Asuras.    Wherefore  let -this  god  (devah)  Hari  (Vishnu), 
from  whose  navel  sprang  a  lotus,  who  is  thrice-striding,  four-armed, 
and  eternal,  become  the  so*",/ of  Dasaratha.     You,  gods,  repairing  to 
the  earth,  and  assuming  the  form  of  monkeys,  shall  assist  the  mighty 
Vishnu.'  "     Kumbhakarna  says  that  Vishnu  has  taken  the  human  form 
of  Rama,   and  come  fro  slay  them.      He  therefore  advises  that  Sita 
should  be  restored,  and  peace  made  with  Rama,  before  whom  the  three 
worlds  bow  down. 

In  reply Jx>  ^his  exhortation,  Ravana  utters  the  following  defiance  of 
Vishnu  (sect.  41,  2  ff.,  ed.  Gorr.):  Ko  'sau  Vialinur  itikhydto  yasya  tvam 
tdia,  bibhyase  \  devatve  na  namasye  tarn  tathd  'nyan  devatd-gandn  \  manush- 
yatvam  gate  tasmin  kirn  bJiayam  tvam  upastJiitam  \  nityam  samara-bhl- 
tds  tu  mdnushuh  mmahdbala  Ihddayitcd  tu  tun  purvam  katham  paschdd 
namdmy  aham  \  pranamya  mdmishath  ftdmam  Sltdtn  datvd  tu  tasya  vai  \ 


464  APPENDIX. 

hdsya-lhutas  tu  lokdndm  anuydsydmi  prishthatah  \  Rdghavdm  tarn  mahd- 
bdho  dlna-rupo  'tha  ddsa-vat  \  riddhim  cha  pasyamdno  'sya  kathaih  saksh- 
ydmijlvitum  \  hritvd  tasya  purd  bhdrydm  mdnaw  kritvd  suddrunam  \ 

pranamed  Rdvano  Rdmam  esha  te  buddhi-nirnayah  \  yadi  Rdmah  svayam 

**••  » 

Vishnur  Lakshmano  ' pi  S' atakratuh\  Suprlvas  Tryambakah  sdkshsit  svayam 

Brahma  tu  Jdmbavdn  \  aho  sdstrdny  adhltdni^ydsya  te  buddhir  idrisi  \ 
atitdsraminam  Rdmam  yo  namaskartum  ichhasi  \  devatvati  yah  parityajya 
mdnushlm  yonim  dsritah  \  asmdn  hantum  khildydtcth  sa  sandheyah  katham 
mayd  \  yadi  iM,  Rdghavo  Vishhur  vyaktam  te  srotram  dgatah  \  devatdndm 
•*hiidrtliam  tu  pravishto  mdnushlm  tanum  \  sa  vdnardndm  rajdnam  Sugrl- 
vam  sarandm  gatah  \  aho  'sya  sadrisam  salchyam  tiryagyoni-gataih  saha  \ 
vlrya-hlnas  tu  kirn  Vishnur  yah  sritah  riksha-vdnardn  \  athavd  vlrya- 
hlno  'saw  yena  purvam  mahdsurah  \  vdtnanam  rupam  dsthdya  ydchitas 
tripadah  padam  \  Balis  tu  dlkshito  yajne  tena  tvam  sakhyam  ichhasi  \  yena 
dattd  mahl  sarvd  sa-sdgara-vandrnavd  \  upachdra-kritd  purvam  'sa  -baddho 
yajna-dlkshitah  \  ^^pakdr^  hatas  tena  so  'smdn  rakshati  vairinah  \  yadd  me 
nirjitdh  devdh  svargarn  gatvd  tvayd  saha  \  tadd  kim  ndsti  Vishnutvam  tasya 
devasya  Rdkshasa  \  sdmpratam  kutah  dydtah  sa  Vishnur  yasya  libhyase  \ 
sdrlra-rakshandrthdya  brushe  tvam  vdkyam  idrisam  \  ndyam  klivayitum 
kdlah  kdlo  yoddhum  nisdchara  \  svdmyam  Pitdmahdt  prdptam  trailokyam 
vasa-gam  kritam  \  Rdghavam  praname  kasmdd  hlna-vlrya-pardkramam  \ 
tad  gachha  sayanlyam  tvam  piva  tvam  vigata-jvarah  \  sayamdnam  na 
htifnydt  tvdm  Rdghavo  Lakshmanas  tathd  \  aham  Rdmam  badhishydmi 
Sugrlvancha  sa-Lakshmanam  \  vsnardmscha  hanishyumi  tato  devan  mahd- 
rane  \  Vishnunchaiva  ladhishyami  ye  cha  Vishnv-anuydyinah  \  gachha 
gachhasva  tat  kshetram  chiramjlva  sukhl  Ih^va  \  bhrdtaram  tv  evam  uktvd 
'sau  Rdvanah  Kdla-choditah  \  sdvalepam  sa--garjancha  punar  vachanam 
abravlt  \  jdndmi  Sltdm  dharanl-prasutdm  jdndmi  Rdmam  Madhusu- 
danancha  \  etad  hi  jane  tv  aham  asya  badhyas  tevaliritd  me  Janakdtma- 
jaishd 30  |  na  kdmdchchaiva  na  krodhdd  dhardmi  Janakdtmajdm  \  nihato 
gantum  ichhdmi  tad  Vishnoh  paraK&m  padam  I  ' 

9°  A  verse  resembling  this  in  most  of  its  clau&s  had  previously  .-iccm-red  in  a 
similarly  defiant  speech  of  Havana's  in  sect.  34,  7,  of  Gorrcsio's  recension :  Janami 
S~itai>i  Janaka-prasutam  janami  Ramam  Madhtujidanafti  cha  \  Etad  hi  jTn/auiy  eham 
asya  badhyas  tathapi  sandhim  na  karomy  anena  \  "  I  know  Slt5  to  be  JanakVs 
daughter,  and  Eama  to  he  Madh'tisudana;  and  I  know  this  that  I  shall  be  slain  by 
him;  and  yet  I  cannot  make  peace  with  him."  Gorresio  regards  both  passages  as  of 
doubtful  authenticity.  In  explanation  of  the  epithet  dhamnl-prasutd  applied  to 
Sita,  I  may  quote  these  lines  from  the '  Ramayana  (Bombay  ed.)  i.  66,  13  ff.,  where 


APPENDIX.  465 

'"Who  is  that  being  called  Vishjiu,  whom  thou  fearest?  In  his 
divinity  I  reverence  neither  him,  n^r  any  of  the  other  hosts  of  gods : 
what  fear  is  this,  then,  \Vhich  has  seized  iyou,  now  that  he  has  become 
a  man?  Men  are  always  afraid,  K>f  battle.  When  I  have  formerly 
eaten  them,  how  can  I  afterw^rfts  ijow  down  before  them  ?  Paying 
reverence  to  the  mortal  Rama,  and  restoring  Sita,  how  could  I, — 
an  object  of  derision  \o  the  universe, — follow  behind  Raghava  in 
humility  like  a  slave '?  and  beholding  his  Drosperity,  how  could  I  live  ? 
This  is  thy  opinion,  that  after  carrying  off  llama's  wife,  and  manifest- 
ing terrible  haughtiness,  Ravana  should  bow  down  before  him !  Even 
if  Rama  were  Vishnu  himself,  and  Lakshmana  were  Indra,  if  Sugriva 
were  Tryambaka  (S'iva),  and  if  Jambavat  were  Brahma — 0  thou  hast 
[well]  studied  the  Sastras,  thou  who  so  thinkest,  and  who  desirest  to 
make  obeisance  to  Rama  who  stands  without  the  four  orders  of  society ; 
who,  abandoning  his  divine  nature,  has  entered  into  a  mortal  womb ! 
How  can  I  make  peace  with  him  who  has  come  to  kill  us  ?  Or  if  it 
has  distinctly  reached  thy  ears  that  Rama  is  Vishnu,  and  has  entered 
into  a  mortal  body  for  the  welfare  of  the  gods,  [still]  he  has  resorted 
[for  help]  to  Sugriva  the  king  of  the  monkeys.  How  suitable  is  his 
friendship  with  brutes  !  Is  then  Vishnu  destitute  of  valour  tha^  he 
has  sought  [the  aid  of]  bears  and  monkeys?  Or,  he  is  [certainly] 
devoid  of  valour  who  formerly  assuming  the  form  of  a  dwarf,  de- 
manded of  the  great  Asura  Bali  three  paces  of  ground,  while  he  was 
consecrated  for  the  sacrifice :  with  such*  "a  person  thou  desirest  friend  - 

Janaka  says  of  his  daughter :  Atha  ite  krishatah  kshetram  langalad  utthita  tatah  \ 
14.  Kshetram  sodhayata  labdlta  n&inna  Slteti  rixruta  \  bhutalad  utthita  sa  tu  vya- 
vardhata  mamatmaja  \  etc.  13.  »"Now  as  I  was  ploughing  my  field,  there  sprang 
from  the  plough  (a  girl),  (14)  obtained  by  me  while  cleansing  my  field,  and  known 
by  name  as  Sita  (the  furrow).  This  girl,  sprung  from  the  earth,  grew  up  as  my 
daughter."  In  the  next  v^rse  she  is  styled  ayonija,  "not  born  from  the  womb." 
The  commentator  quotes  the  following  lines  from  the  Padma-purana  on  the  same 
subject :  Atha  loke&varl  Lakshmlr  Janakasya  pare  svatah  \  subha-kshetre  halotkhate 
tare  chottara-phalgune  \  ayonyd  ^"lina-kara  balarka-sata-sannibha  \  Slta-mukhe 
samntpanna  bql:i-MMvena  sundarl^S~>ta-mukhodbhavat  SUa  ity  asyai  nama  chakarot\ 
tato  'bhudaurasi  tasya  Urmila  nama  kanyaka  \  iti  \  ''Now  Lakshmi,  the  mistress 
of  the*  worlds,  was  born  by  her  own  will  in  the  city  of  Janaka,  in  a  beautiful  field 
opened  up  by  the  plough,  under  the  star  in  the  second  half  of  the  month  Phiilguna. 
She  sprang  from  the  womb  of  no  female,  with  a  lotus  in  her  hand,  like  a  hundred 
young  suns,  but  arose  from  the  opening  of  the  furrow,  beautiful,  in  the  form  of  a 
child.  He  gave  her  the  name  of  Sita,  because  she  sprang  from  the  opening  of  the 
furrow  (s'tta).  Then  his  daughter  Urinilu  waS  born  by  ordinary  generation." 

*  » 

VOL.  iv.  \  30 


466  APPENDIX. 

ship  !  He  (Bali)  who  formerly  presented  to  him  the  whole  earth  with 
its  oceans,  forests,  and  seas,  was  bound  by  him  when  consecrated  for 
sacrifice  !  A  benefactor  was  Destroyed  by  hirr/;  and  he  is  to  deliver  us 
who  are  his  enemies!31  When  I  wfnt,  to  heaven  with  thee  and  con- 
quered the  gods,  had  not  this  god  th/m  his  character  of  "Vishnu  ? 
Whence  has  this  Vishnv  now  come,  whom  thou  fearest?  Thou 
sp'eakest  in  this  strain  to  save  thy  body  [from  ;njury  in  battle].  This 
is  not  the  time  for  timidity,  Rakshasa,  but  for  fighting.  I  have 
obtained  dominion  from  Brahma;  the  three  worlds  are  subject  to  me; 
why  should  I  bow  down  before  Rama  who  is  destitute  of  energy  and 
valour  ?  Go,  therefore,  to  thy  couch ;  drink,  free  from  disquiet. 
Neither  Rama  nor.  Lakshmana  will  kill  thee  when  thou  art  sleeping. 
I  shall  slay  Rama,  and  SugrTva,  and  Lakshmana,  and  the  monkeys,  and 
then  the  gods  also  in  a  great  battle.  I  shall  kill  Vishnu  too,  and  all 
Vishnu's  followers.  Go,  go  then  to  thy  abode,  live  long,  live  at  ease,' 
Having  thus,  impelled  by  fate,  spoken  to  his  brother  with  arrogance 
and  in  a  loud  tone,  Ravana  said  again :  '  I  know  Sita  to  be  sprung 
from  the  earth;  I  know  Rama  to  be  Madhusudana.  And  this  I  know, 
that  I  am  to  be  slain  by  him ;  and  therefore  have  I  carried  off  this 
daughter  of  Janaka.  It  is  not  from  passion  or  from  anger  that  I  retain 
her:  I  desire,  being  slain,  to  go  to  that  highest  abode  of  Vishnu.'" 
Compare  the  quotation  from  the  Vishnu  Parana,  given  above,  regard- 
ing S'isupala,  pp.^215  f.,  note  212. 

The  change  of  tone  in  this'last  short  speech  is  remarkable.  The 
defier  of  Vishnu  all  at  once  acknowledges  his  deity  and  becomes  his 
humble  worshipper.  This  looks  like  a  still  later  addition  to  the  pre- 
ceding part  of  the  section,  inserted  by  some  editor  who  considered  the 
earlier  portion  to  be  too  blasphemous  to  be  allowed  to  stand  without 
some  qualification,  or  recantation.  , 

Again,  after  Ravana's  death,  Mandodari,  the  highest  in  rank  of  his 
queens,  in  the  lament  which  she  "utters  for  her  husband's  loss,  speaks  as 
follows  (sect.  113,  5  ff.,  Bombay  ed.):  Sa  tdam  mdnusJia-nt-dtxena  "±tdmena 
yudhi  nirjitah\  na  vyapatrapase  rdjan  kim  idam  rdkshasesvara\  6.  Katham 
trailokyam  dkramya  sriyd  vlryena  chdnvttam  \  avishahyam  jaghana 

i, 

tvdm  mdnusho  vana-gocharah  \   1 .  Mdnushdndm  avishaye  charatah  ktima- 

rupinah  \   vindsas  tava  Rumena  saniyuge  nopapadyate  \   8.  Na  chaitat 

31  Such  is  the  sense — apparently^not  a  very  suitable  one— of  the  words. 


APPENDIX.  467 

karma  Rdmasya  sraddadJidmi  chamti-snukhe  \  sarvatah  samupetasya  tava 
tendbliimarshanam  \  9.  Athavd  Runta-rupena  Kritdntah  svayam  dgatah  \ 
mat/am  tava  mndsdya  vtdhdydpratitarkittim  \  10.  Athavd  Vdsavena  tvam 
dharsJiito  'si  mahubafa  |,11.  Vd^vasya  tit  Jed  saktis  tvdm  drashtum  apt 
samyuge'\  Mahdbalam  mahdv'r.iyam  Aeva-satrum  mahaujasam  \  12.  Vya- 
Tctam  esha  mahdyogl™  paramdfynd  sandtanafy  \  an-ddi-madhya-nidhano 

mahatah  paramo -mahun  \  13.  Tamasah  paramo  dhdtd  sankha-chakra-gadd- 

$ 
dharah  \   14.  S'rivatsa-vafohdh  nitya-srlrjijayyah  sdsvato  dhruvah  \  md- 

nusham  rupam  dsthdya  Vishnuh  satya-pardkramah  \  15.  Sarvaih  pari- 
vrito  devair  vdnaratvam  updgataih  \  sarva-lokesvarah  srlmdn  lokdndm 
hita-kdmyayd  \  sa-rdkshasa-panvdram  deva-satrum  bhaydvaham  \  16. 
Indriydni  purd  jitvd  jitam  tribhuvanaih  tpai/d  \  smaradbhir  iva  tad 
vairam  indriyair  eva  nirjitah  \  17.  Yadaiva  hi  Janasthdne  Rdkshasair 
bahubliir  vritah  \  Kharas  tu  nihato  bhrdtd  tddd  Rdmo  na  mdnushah  \ 

"5.  Art  not  thou  ashamed,  0  king,  to  have  been  conquered  by 
Rama,  a  mere  man  ?  What  is  this,  lord  of  the  Rakshasas  ?  6.  How 
did  a  man  frequenting  the  forests  slay  thee  who  hadst  assailed  the  three 
•worlds,  who  wast  distinguished  by  good  fortune  and  heroism,  and  un- 
conquerable? 7.  That  thou  who  movedst  at  will,  invisible  to  men, 
shouldst  have  been  destroyed  by  Rama,  is  inconceivable.  8.  I  d»  not 
credit  this  act  of  Rama  in  the  front  of  the  battle,  the  overthrow  by  him 
of  thee  who  wast  endowed  in  every  way.  9.  Either  Death  (Kritdnta] 
came  in  the  form  of  Rama,  applying  an  unimagined  magic  for  thy 
destruction,  (10)  or  thou  hast  been  overwhelmed  by  Yasava  (Indra). 

11.  But  what  power  had  Vasava  in  battle  even  to  look  at  thee,  who 
wast  the  mighty ,in  force  an^  heroism,  the  glorious  enemy  of  the  gods? 

12.  This  was  manifestly 'the  great  conteinplator  (Mahdyogin\™  the 
supreme  spirit,  the  eternal,  without  beginning,  middle,  or  end,  the 
great  Being  superior  to  the  great  'jor  to  Mahat,34  i.e.  Prakriti  or  matter), 
(13)  superior  to  darkness,35  the  sustains,  the  wielder  of  the  shell,  the 

discus,  and  the  club,  (14^  w.Hp  bears  the  srivatsa  on, his  breast,  who 
*•  •  » 

32  Sva1jhfriJ;(t-sarva-saJcti-yuJetah  \  Comm. 

33,  This  knowledge  of  the  truth,  says  the  commentator,  was  derived  by  Mandodarl 
from  the  divine  favour  (safyam  evam  Manclodarl janlte  Bhagavat-kripaya). 

34  The  commentator  does  not  say  in  what  sense  tt?e  word  mahat  should  be  taken, 

3*  The  commentator  says  that  tamasah  paramah  means prakriteh pravartakah,  "he 
who  causes  the  activity  of  Prakriti  (or  matter)."  Instead  of  tamasah,  he  adds,  some 
read  tapasah.  * 


468  APPENDIX. 

enjoys  perpetual  prosperity,  the  invincible,  everlasting,  unchanging, 
Yishnu,  of  genuine  prowess,  who  had  assumed  a  human  form,  (15) 
and  was  attended  by  all  the  gofis  in  the  shape  o'i  monkeys,  the  glorious 
lord  of  all  the  worlds,  who  desired  th^e  good  of  all  the  worlds.  [He 
slew  thee],36  the  terrific  enemy  tof  'ths  gods,  with  thy  attendant 
Rakshasas.  16.  Formerly^  by  subduing  thy  senses,  thou  didst  subdue 
the  three  worlds;  but  thou  wast  [afterwards^  i.e.  when  thou  didst 
carry  off  Slta,  etc.]  overcome,  by  thy  senses,  which,  as  it  were,  re- 
membered37 [and  revenged]  that  [former]  hostility  [of  thine  towards 
them].  17.  For  since  thy  brother  Khara,  attended  by  many  Rakshasas, 
was  slain  [by  Rama]  in  Janasthana,  Rama  is  not  a  mere  mortal." 

If  thjs  quotation  from  the  Bombay  edition  be  compared  with  the  cor- 
responding passage  of  Gorresio's  text  (sect.  95),  it  will  be  found  that, 
on  this  occasion,  the  former  is  more  diffuse  than  the  latter,  Yerses  5-8 
are  nearly  the  same  in  both  recensions ;  but  instead  of  two  verses  (the 
ninth  and  tenth)  affirming  the  divine  character  of  Rama,  which  we 
find  in  Gorresio's  edition,  there  are  in  the  Bombay  recension  seven 
verses,  in  most  of  which,  at  least,  the  same  idea  is  enforced.  '  The 
ninth  and  tenth  verses  of  Gorresio's  edition  are  as  follows :  9.  Athava 
Rdn\v,-rupena  Vishnus  cha  svayam  tigatah  \  tava  ndstiya  mdyabhih  pra- 
visyunupalakshitah  \  10.  Yadaiva  hi  Janasthdne  rdltshasair  lahubhir 
vritah  \  JTharas  tava  hato  Uirdtd  tadaivdsau  na  mdnushhah  \  "Or 
,  Vishnu  himself  came  in  the  form  of  Rama,  having  entered  into  him 
unperceived,  through  supernatural  powers,  for  thy  destruction.  10. 
For  since  thy  brother  Khara,  attended  by  many  Rakshasas,  was  slain 
by  [Rama]  in  Janasthana,  Rama  is  not  &:  mere  mortal."  It  will  be 
observed  that  here  a  verse  (the  tenth),  which  corresponds  to  the  seven- 
teenth of  the  Bombay  edition,  immediately  succeeds  the  ninth,  and 
that  consequently  there  is  in  Gorresio's  text  no  sti'eh  development  of  the 
idea  contained  in  the  ninth  verse  as  we  find  in  vv.  10-15  of  the  other 
edition.  Now  i£  we  are  to  suppose  that  the  original  text  of  the  Rama- 
yana  made  no  allusion  to  Rama  being  an  incarnation  of  Tiding  it'might 
at  first  sight  seem  as  if  the  ninth  and  tenth  verses  of  the  Bombay  text, 

36  It  is  necessary  (with  the  commentator,  who  says  hatavan  iti  seshah]  to  supply 
the  words  in  brackets,  or  some  others  of  a  similar  tenor,  in  order  to  make  sense. 

37  This  clause  the  commentator  explains  thus  :   "  Pura"  Bhagavad-uddesena  tapo- 
'nusMhana-kale  \     "  tad  vairam"   sva-jaya-nimittaiii   vairam  smaradbhir  indriyair 
akarma-pravritti-sampadanena  nirjitah  \ 


•  APPENDIX.  469 

which  represent  Death  (Kritanta),  or  Indra,  as  taking  the  form  of  Rama, 
were  more  genuine  than  the  corresponding  verse  of  Gorresio's  edition, 
which  declares  that  Yisbnu  assunfed  the  form  of  that  hero.  In  this  case, 
verses  12  ff.  of  the"*  Bombay  edition,  which  represent  Rama  as  an  in- 
carnate jdeity,  would  be  a  subsequent  interpolation.  But  the  twelfth 
and  following  verses  appear,  on  examination,  to  hang  well  enough  to- 
gether with  thJse  which  precede;  and  if  the  entire  passage  thus  forms 
one  connected  wholej  we  can  only  (on  the  hypothesis  that  Rama's  divine 
nature  was  foreign  to  the  original  poem)  suppose  that  the  interpola- 
tion, or  alteration,  has  extended  over  a  wider  surface.  It  is  worthy 
of  remark  that  the  hundred  and  thirteenth  section  of  the  Bombay 
edition  is  in  other  parts  also  more  developed  than  Gorresio's.  Thus 
after  verse  40  of  the  Bombay  edition,  corresponding  to  verse  28  of 
Gorresio's,  eighteen  verses  are  inserted  which  are  not  in  the  latter, 
and  after  verse  59  of  the  Bombay  edition=verse  29  of  Gorresio's, 
•twelve  verses  are  found  which  are  wanting  in  the  latter.  From 
this  it  would  appear  that  both  recensions  have,  in  different  places, 
received  developments  after  they  began  to  be  separately  handed 
down,  unless,  indeed,  we  are  to  assume  that  that  followed  by  Gorresio 
omitted  passages  which  had  previously  existed  in  the  common  source 
of  both. 

In  the  passage  which  J  shall  next  quote,  the  legend  makes  no 
mention  of  the  incarnation  of  Vishnu,  but  specifies  the  birth  of  3ita 
as  the  means  whereby  Ravana  is  to  to-destroyed.  After  the  Rakshasas 
had  been  defeated  by  Rama  and  driven  back  into  Lanka,  their  females 
loudly  bewailed  the  calamities'  by  which  their  race  had  been  overtaken. 
In  the  course  6*f  this  lament  they  say  (sect.  95,  vv.  25  ff.,  Bombay 
ed.  =  sect.  74,  vv.  27  ff.,  Gorresio) :  Rudro  vd  yadi  vd  Vishnur  Mahcndro 
vd  S'atakratuh  \  hantf  no  Rdma-rupena  yadi  vd  svayam  Antakah  \  26. 
Hata-pravirah  Rdmena  nirdsdh  jlvite  vayam  \  apasyanto38  lhayasydntam 
andthdh  vilapdmahe  |  '27.  Rdma-Jiastdd  Dasagrlvah  suro  datta-mahd- 
rrtrffyj"!  idam  Ihcyam  mandynoram  samutpannam  na  ludhyate  \  28.  Tarn 
na  devdJ/ na  gandharvdh  na  pisdchdh  na  rdhshasdh  \  upasrishtam36 
pafitrdtum  salctdh  Rdmena  samyuge  \  29.  TTtpdtdschdpi  drisyante 
Rdvanasya  rane  ram  \  kathayanti  hi  Rdrr»9na  Rdvanasya  nibarkanam  \ 

38  Apasyanto  'pasyantyah  \  Comm. 

39  Upasrishtaih  ha^tum  arabdham  \  Comm. 


470  APPENDIX.          ' 

30.  Pitdmahena  prltena  deva-ddnava-rdkshasaih  \  Rdvanasydlhayam 
dattam  manushebkyo  na  ydchitam  J  31.  Tad  idam  manusham  manye 
prdptam  nihsamsayam  lhayam  \  jlvitdnta-Jcagam  ghoram  rakshasdm 
Rdvanasya  cha  \  32.  Pldyamdnds  £>,i'  balind  vara-ddnena  rakshasa.  \ 
dlptais  tapobhir  vibudhdh  Pitamahatk  apujayan  \  33.  Dwatdndni 
hitdrthdya  mahdtmd  vai  Pitdmahah  \  uvdchi  'devatds  tushtah  idam 
sarvdh  maliad  vachah  \  34.  Adya-prabJiriti  lokdms  trlh  sarve  ddnava- 
rdlcshasdh  \  bhayena  prabhritdh  nityam  vicharishyknti  sdsvatam*0  \  35. 
Daivatais  tu  samugamya  sarvais  chendra-purogamaih  }  vrislia-dhvajas 
'Tripura-Tia  Mahudevah  pratoshitah  \  36.  Prasannas  tu  Mahddevo  devan 
etad  vacho  'bravit  \  utpafsyati  hitdrtham  vo  ndrl  rakshah-lcshaydvahd  \ 
37.  Esha  devaih  prayuktd  tu  Icslmd  yathdil  ddnavdn  purd  \  bhaksha- 
yishyati  nah  sarvdn  rakshasa-ghnl  sa-rdvandn  \  38.  Rdvanasydpariitena*' 
durviriitasya  durmateh  \  ay  am  nishtanako 43  ghorah  sokena  samabhiplutah  \ 
39.  Tan  na pasyamahe  lohe  yo  nah  sar ana-do  lhavet  \  Raghaveriupasrish- 
taniim  kdlemva  yugakshaye  \  25.  "Either  Eudra,  or  Vishnu,  or  the 
great  Indra  S'atakratu,  or  Death  himself,  slays  us  in  the  form  of  Rama. 
26.  Having  had  our  heroes  destroyed  by  Rama,  we  despair  of  life. 
Seeing  no  end  of  our  apprehension,  we  lament,  deprived  of  our  pro- 
tectors. 27.  The  heroic  Dasagrlva  (Havana),  who  had  received  a  great 

Cf 

boon  [from  Brahma]  does  not  perceive  this  great  cause  of  alarm  which 
[comes]  from  the  hand  of  Rama.  28.  Neither  Gods,  nor  Grandharvas, 
not  Pisachas,  nor  Raksbasas,  are  able  to  deliver  him  when  assailed  by 
Rama  in  fight.  29.  Portents,  tou,  regarding  Havana  are  seen  in  every 
battle,  which  foretell  his  destruction  by  Rama.  30.  Pitamaha,  gratified, 
granted  to  Ravana  security  against  Gods,  Danavas  and  Rakshasas,  but 
he  did  not  ask  [to  be  secured]  against  men.  '31.  This  dreadful  danger 
from  men  has  now,  I  think,  without  doubt  arrived,  which  shall 

i, 

*°  These  words  are  thus  explained  by  the  commentator :  Danavah  rahshasas  cha 
bhayena  prabhritah  debebhyo  bhayaw  bibhranah  eva  vicharishyanti  \  devuh  svatah 
parato  va  'sman  pldayishyanfi  ity  arthah  \  "  The  Danavas  and  Rakshasas  shall  roam 
about  entertaining  fear  of  the  gods :  viz.  that  the^gods  themselve*,  or  throughr  ;thers, 
would  distress  them."  This  verse  is  thus  given  in  Gorresio's  edifton'^74,  36  f.) : 
Adya-prabhriti  lokeshu  ye  bhutah  bhaya-varjitah  \  bhayartas  te  punar  iha  vicharish- 
yanti rakshasah. 

41  " Pura  "  purva-kalpc  \  devai','  danara-nasartham prayuktd  feshucl  yatha  danavan 
harati  sma  \  Comm.  "  'As  formerly,'  in  a  former  Kalpa,  Hunger,  being  appointed  by 
the  gods  for  the  destruction  of  the  Danavas,  carried  them  off." 

12  Apamtena  anayena  \  Comm.  f  *3  Nishtanako  nasah  \  Comm. 


APPENDIX.  471 

terminate  the  life  of  Havana  and  the  Rakshasas.  32.  Now  the  gods, 
when  oppressed  by  the  llakshasa  (Havana),  who  was  mighty  through 
the  booh  which  [Brahm^]  had  corferred  on  him,  worshipped  Pitamaha 
(Brahma)  with  ardent  austerities.  33.  The  great  Pitamaha,  pleased, 
addressed, this  great  word  to  all  tte  deities  for  their  benefit:  34.  'From 
this  day  forward  all  the  Danavas  ana  Rakshasas  shall  roam  continually 
through  the  thr*e  worlds,  influenced  by  fear*'  35.  But  all  the  gods,44 
with  Indra  at  their  head,  assembled  and  propitiated  Mahadeva,  whose 
banner  is  a  bull,  and  who  destroyed  THpura  (or,  the  three  castles). 

36.  He;  being  pleased,  thus  spake  to  them :   '  For  your  benefit  there  . 
shall  arise  a  female  who  shall  bring  destruction  to  the  Rakshasas.' 

37.  This  female  slayer43  of  Rakshasas,  being  commissioned  by  the 
gods,  shall  [now]  devour  all  of  us,  including  Ravana;    as  Hunger 
formerly  [devoured]  the  Danavas.     38.  Through  the  folly  of  the  mis- 
guided and  wicked  Ravana  this  dreadful  destruction,  accompanied  by 
Affliction,  has  come  upon  us.     39.  We  see  no  one  in  the  world  who 
shall  afford  protection  to  us  assailed  by  Rama,  as  it  were  by  Time  at 
the  end  of  the  ages." 

.  Compare  with  the  preceding  passage  the  story  of  Devavati,  extracted 
above  (p.  458  if.)  from  the  TJttara  Kanda.  Both  of  these  forms  of  the 
legend  appear  to  regard  Sita,  and  not  Vishnu,  as  the  real  destroyer  of 
Ravana.  v 

In  an  earlier  part  of  the  poem  it  is  related  that  after  Rama  had  sl»in 
the  Rakshasa  Khara,  he  was  congratulated  by  the  gods  in  a  way  which, 
strictly  speaking,  is  scarcely  consistent  with  the  idea  that  the  poet  re- 
garded him  as  an  incarnation  itf  Vishnu  : 

-  *^ 

Aranya  Kancfa  (or  Third  Book)  30,  v.  27  ff.  (Bombay  edition 
=  section  35,  vv.  93  &.,  Gorresio's  edition).  —  Sa  papata  Kliaro 
bhumau  dahyamanah^  sarugnina  \  Rudreneva  vinirdagdhah  S'vetu- 
ranye  yatha  'ntakah  \  28.  Sa  rriirah  iva  vajrena  phenena  Namuchir 
yatha  \  Balo  vendrasani-hato  nipapata*  hatah  Khar  ah  \  29.  Masminn 

..'••*'." 

44  The  cixnmciitator  remarks  here :  Evam  Brahmanah  prasadat  sabhayatva-matram 

praptam  \  samharadhikrita-Rudra-prasudena  tu  nasah  evasmakam  ity  ahuh  \  "Thus 
by,  tVe  favour  of  Brahma,  the  gods  only  obtained  that  the  [Danavas,  etc.]  should  be 
terrified :  but  through  the  favour  [granted  to  them}  by  Rudra,  whose  function  is  de- 
struction, we  shall  be  destroyed." 

45  Said  to  be  Sltii,  according  to  the  commentator  (sa  esha  S7ta  eva  ity  ahuli]. 
Gorresio's  text  hasSaisha  daiva-prasrishta  tu  kshudhita  Janakatmaja,  etc. 


472  APPENDIX. 

antare  devds  chdranaih  saha  sangatah  \  dunditbhimschdlhiniglinantah 
pusJipa-varsham  samantatah  \  30.  Rdmasyopari  samhrishttih  vavarshur 
vismitds  tadd  \  ardhadkilca-muhurtdna  Ramena-nisitaih  Saraih  \  31. 
Chaturdasa  sahasrdni  rakshasdm  Icnha-rupindni  \  Khara-Dushana- 
mukhydndm  nihatdni  mahdmridhe  \  32.^  Aho  bata  mahat  karma,<iRdmasya 
viditdtmanah  \  oho  viryam  aho-ddrdhyam  Vishnol*  iva  hi  drisyate  \  33. 
Ity  evam  uldvd  te  sarve  yayur  devah  yathdgatam  \  27.  "Burnt  up  by 
the  fire  of  the  arrow,  Khara  fell  like  Antaka,'  wvio  was  formerly  con- 
sumed by  Rudra  in  the  SVeta'  (white)  forest.46  28.  He  fell  like  Yritra 
•  smitten  by  the  thunderbolt,  like  Namuchi  by  the  foam,47  or  like  Bala 
by  the  lightning  of  Indra.  29.  At  this  moment  the  gods,  joined  with 
the  Charanas,  beating  kettle-drums,  delighted,  (30)  rained  on  Rama 
a  shower  of  flowers  all-  round,  and  [said]  in  astonishment :  '  In  a 
muhurta  and  a  half  (two  hours)  (31)  fourteen  thousand  Rakshasas, 
changing  their  shapes  at  will,  headed  by  Khara  and  Dushuia,  have 
been  slain  by  Rama  with  sharp  arrows  in  a  great  fight.  32.  0  what 
a  mighty  exploit  of  llama,  who  knows  himself ! 48  0,  his  valour  and 
his  firmness  are  seen  to  be  like  those  of  Vishnu!'  33.  Having  thus 
spoken,  all  those  gods  went  as  they  came." 

If  the  writer  of  these  verses  regarded  Rama  as  au  incarnation  of 
VishSiu,  it  would  seem  to  have  been  superfluous  to  compare  him  with 
that  deity.  In  the  corresponding  section  of  Gorresio's  edition  (the 
ttrrty-fifth)  the  several  classes  of  rishis  are  introduced  as  [among 

46  On  this  legend  the  commentator  informs  us  as  follows :  Andhakasurah  S'veta- 
ranye  Rudrena  hatah  iti  purana-prasiddham  |    ,    .  .  .  "  S'vetaranye  yatha  'ntakah" 
iti  prachurah  pathah  \  tatra  Kaverl-tlra-vartini  S'vetaranye  Markandeya-chirajlvit- 
vaya  Antaka-samliaro  Rudrena  kritah  iti  tan-mahutmye  prasiddhih  \  Eaurme  tu 
uttarakhande  S'vetasya  rajarsheh  paramasaivasya  Kalanjare  parvate  tapasy  abhi- 
ratasya  maranaya  agatasya  Antakasya  S'ivena  vama-pada-praharena  samharah  kritah 
iti  shattriirise  'dhyaye  uktam  \    "  The  asurfi  Andhaka  Was  slain  by  Rudra  in  the 

S'veta  forest,  as  is  well  known  from  the  Puranas The  reading,  '  as  Antaka  in 

the  S'veta  forest,'  is  frequently  met  with.     Regarding  him  it  is  told  in  the  Glorifica- 
tion of  Markandeya,  that,  to  prolong  the  life  of  that  sa/je,  Antaka  (the  Ender,  Death) 
was  destroyed  by  Rudra.     But  in  the  latter  part  of  the  Kurma'-pu'-tma,  seci  36,  it 
is  related  that  Antaka,  who  had  come  to  kill  the  royal  rishi  S'veta,  an  eminent  votary 
of  S'iva,  who  was  addicting  himself  to  austerities  on  the  Kalanjara  mountain;  was 
destroyed  by  a  blow  of  S'iva' s  left  foot."     Compare  A.V.  xi.  2,  7,  quoted  above? 
p.  336,  where  Rudra  is  called  "line  slayer  of  Ardhaka."  , 

47  See  above,  p.  261,  and  note  259. 

48  Viditatmanah.     This  epithet  is  not  explained  by  the  commentator. 


APPENDIX.  473 

other  things]  applauding  Rama  for  displaying  the  qualities  of  a 
Kshatriya  (dharmajna  vardhase  dishty'd  kshatra-dharmena  Rdghava,  v.  99), 
and  as  saying  to  him,  (w.  105>  n.)  that  all  the  gods,  Gandharvas, 
etc.,  were  saluting'  him  with*  congratulations  on  his  victory  (jaya- 
slrbhih},  and  that  Brahma  andf  llahadeva  were  paying  him  honour. 
Rama  is  then  said  to  Jiave '"  made  obeisance  to  the  gods  whom  he 
saw  not  far  off  standing  on  their  celestia/ cars  "  (namas  chaTcre  vimd- 
nasthdn  drishtvd  'ditre  'divaukasah). 

The  following  is  another  passage  oi  the  sixth  or  Yuddha  Kanda 
occurring  in  the  Bombay  edition,  but  not  in  Gorresio's,  in  which  Rama, 
when  about  to  engage  in  battle  with  Ravana,  is  recommended  by 
Agastya  to  utter  a  hymn  to  the  Sun,  which  will  insure  his  victory 
over  his  enemy.  Not  a  word  is  said  of  Rama's  own  divinity,'  and  in 
fact  the  use  of  such  a  prayer  does  not  seem  to  harmonize  with  such 
a  character : 

vi.  106,  1  ff.  (Bombay  ed.):  Tato  yuddha-parisrdntam  samare  chintayd 
stJiitam  |  Rdvanam  chdgrato  drishtvd  ytiddhdya  samupasthitam  \  2. 
Daivatais  cha  samdgamya  drashtum  abhyugato  ranam  \  upagamyulravid 
Rdmam  Agastyo  lhagavams  tadil  \  3.  Rama  Rama  mahdbuho  srinu 
guhyam  sanatanam  \  yena  sarvan  arm  vatsa  samare  vijayishyase  \  4. 
Aditya-hridayam  punyam  sarva-satni-vindsanam  \  jaydvaliam  *japan 
nityam  aksliayam  paramam  sivam  \  5.  Sarva-mangala-mdngalyam  sarva- 
pdpa-prandsanam  \  chmtii-soka-prasamanam  dyurvardhanam  uttamym  \ 
6.  Rasmimantam  samiidyantam  defdsn^a-namasTcritam  \  pujayasva  Vivas- 
vantam  bhdskaram  Ihuvanesvaram  \  7.  Sarva-devdtmako  hy  esha  tejasvl 
rasmi-bhuvanah  \  eslia  devdsu'a-gandn  lokdn  pdti  galhastilhih  \  8.  Esha 

& 

Brahma  cha  Vishnus  cha  fftvah  Skandah  Prajdpatih  \  Mahendro  Dhanadah 
S'dlo  Yamah,  Somo  hy  Apdmpatih  \  9.  Pitaro  Vasavah  Sddhydh  Asvinau 
Maruto  Manuh  \  Vdyur  Vahnih  prajdh  prdnah  ritu-kartd  pralhaharah  \ 
10.  Adityah  Savitd  Suryah  kha-gah  Pushd  galhastimdn  \  suvarna-sadriso 
Ihdnur  Mranya-retdh-^  divdkarah  |  .'.  .  .  26.  Pujayasvainam  eJcdgro 
devct*devam  jagal-patim  f  efcat'trigunitam  japtvd  yuddheshu  vijayishyati  \ 
27.  As.nin^kshane  mahdbuho  Rdvanam  tvam  jahishyasi  \  evam  uktvd  tato 
\\tstyo  jagdma  sa  yathdgatam  \  28.  Etach  chhrutvd  mahdtejdh  nashta- 
soho  'bhavat  tadd  \  dhdraydmdsa  suprlto  ]\dghavah  prayatdtmavdn  \  29. 
Adityam  prehhya  japtvedam  param  harsham  avdptavdn  \  trir  dchamya 
49  Aksharadhikyam  arsham  \  Comm. 


474  APPENDIX. 

suchir  bhiltvd  dhanur  ddaya  vlryavan  \  30.  Ravanam  prekshya  hrishtdtmu 
jayartham  samupugamat  \sarva-yatnena  mahatd  vritas  tasya  ladJie  'bhavat\ 
31.  Atha  ravir  avadad  nirlTcshya  Hdiham  mudita-manah  paramam  pra- 
hrishyamanah  \  nisicharapati-sankshayctrh  viditvd  sura-gana-madhya-gato 
vachas  tvareti  \  \  ^ 

"  The  divine  Agastya  then  beholding  [^Rama]  fatigued  with  the  con- 
flict, standing  anxious50  in  the  battle,  and  in  his  iron!;  Ravana,  who 
had  drawn  near  to  the  combat,  [Agastya,  I  say'J,  ^2)  who  had  arrived 
to  see  the  conflict,  joining  'the  gods,  and  coming  near  to  Kama, 
•said:  3.  'Rama,  Rama,  great-armed,  hear  the  eternal  mysterious 
[prayer],  by  which,  my  son,51  continually  muttering  it, — (4)  the  holy 
Aditya-hridaya  ('heart  of  the  sunr),  which  destroys  all  enemies,  brings 
victory,  is  undecaying,  supreme,  beneficent,  (5)  the  auspiciousness  of 
all  auspicious  things,  the  destroyer  of  all  sins,  the  allayer  of  anxieties 
and  sorrows,  the  prolonger  of  life,  the  most  excellent — thou  shalt 
conquer  all  thine  enemies  in  battle.  6.  Worship  the  rising  Vivasvat,62 
the  radiant  sun,  adored  by  gods  and  Asuras,  the  lord  of  the  world. 
7.  For  he  possesses  the  essence  of  all  the  gods,  is  fiery,  the  producer 
of  rays.  He  by  his  beams  sustains  the  gods,  the  Asuras,  and  the 
worlds.  8.  He  is  both  Brahma  and  Yishnu,  S'iva  and  Skanda,  Praja- 
pati,  Indra,  Kuvera,  Kala  (Time),  Yama,  Soma,  and  the  lord  of  waters 
(Varuna),  (9)  the  Pitris,  Yasus,  Sadhyas,  Asvins,  Manu,  Yayu,  Agni, 
created  beings,  breath,  the  former  of  the  seasons,  the  producer  of  light, 
(10)  Aditya,  Savitri,  Surya,  moring  in  the  sky,  Pushan,  the  radiant, 

50  The  commentator  will  not  allow  this  appj?3hension  to  be  real:  Evam  bhaya- 
natanam  tan-mulakam  Agastyad  upadesa-grahand^i   lokanugralwya   lokasya  jaya- 
sadhana-vastu-prakasanartham  iti  tattvam  \      "  The  truth  is  that  this  acting  (or 
simulation)  of  fear,  and  the*  acceptance  of  instruction  from  Agastya  founded  thereon, 
originated  in  kindness  to  mankind,  and  in  a  desire  to  reveal  to  them  the  means  of 
gaining  victory."  , 

51  See  above,  p.  389,  how  much  Brahma  was  offended  by  having  this  appellation, 
vatsa,  "my  son,"  applied  to  him  by  Vishnu.     If,  then,  the  poet  here  intended  to 
represent  Rama  as  possessing  a  divine  nature,  ht  mus4  have  conceived  of  Vishnu  as 
less  susceptible  than  Brahma,  when  he  makes  Agastya  address  him  tiyis.  ,, 

52  Compare  the  hymn  to  Surya  in  the  Mahahh.  iii.  166  ff.,  of  which  some  specimens 
are  given  in  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  161.     It  is  there  said,  v.  190 :   Tva,m 
Indram  alms  tvam  Vishnus  tvam  >Jttidras  tvam  Prajapatih  \  tvam  Agnis  tvam  manah 
sukshmam prabhus  tvam  Brahma,  sasvatam]  "They  call  thee  Indra;  thou  art  Vishriu, 
Kudra.  Prajapati:  thou  art  Agni,  the  subtile  Mind,  thou  art  the  lord,  the  Eternal 
Brahma." 


.        APPENDIX.  475 

of  golden  hue,  the  shining,  who  has  golden  seed,  the  maker  of  the 
day."  Then  follow  (vv.  11-15)  many  other  titles  of  the  Sun,  suc- 
ceeded (vv.  15-21)  t>y.  invocations  addressed  to  him  under  various 
appellations,  among  which  is  (v*.  J.9)  £rahmesunuchyutesdya,&3  "to  the 
lord  of  Brahma,  Isana  (S'iva),  Ind  Achyuta  (Vishnu)."  After  some 
further  eulogies  of  thk  Sun,  Kama  is  again  exhorted  to  worship  this 
deity  (vv.  26  if f) :  "Worship  with  fixed  mind  this  god  of  gods,  the 
lord  of  the  world.  Having  thrice  muttered  this  [hymn],  a  man  shall 
conquer  in  battles.  27.  In  this  moment,  0  great-armed,  thou  shalt  slay 
Havana.'  Having  thus  spoken,  Agastya  went  as  he  had  come.  2€.  > 
After  hearing  this,  the  vigorous  Bama  became  then  freed  from  grief; 
-and,  with  well-governed  spirit,  bore  it  in  his  memory.  29.  Beholding 
the  Sun,  and  muttering  this  hymn,  he 'attained  the  highest  joy. 
Having  thrice  rinsed  his  mouth,  and  become  pure,  the  hero  took  his 
bow.  30.  Beholding  Bavaria  with  gladdened  spirit,  he  approached 
to  vanquish  him ;  and  with  great  intentness  became  bent  upon  his 
slaughter.  31.  Then  the  Sun,  with  rejoicing  mind,  exceedingly  exult- 
ing, looking  upon  Bama,  knowing  the  [approaching]  destruction  of  the 
chief  of  the  Bakshasas,  and  standing  in  the  midst  of  the  gods,  uttered 
the  word  'speed.' " 

This  extract,  as  I  have  said  above,  is  entirely  wanting  in  Gorresio's 
edition,  in  which  a  verse  (the  last  of  its  eighty-ninth  section)  corre- 
sponding with  the  last  in  the  hundred  and  fifth  section  of  the  Bombay 
edition,  is  succeeded  immediately  by  oae  (Gorr.  90,  1)  corresponding 
to  the  second  half  of  the  fourth  verse  of  the  hundred  and  seventh 
section  of  the  Bombay  edition.  The  whole  of  the  matter  which  is 
wanting  in  Gorresio  maybe  omitted  without  detriment  to  the  con- 
nexion ;  and  in  fact  the  recurrence  at  the  beginning  of  the  hundred 
and  seventh  section  4Bombay  ed.)  of  an  expression  repeating  in  sub- 
stance what  had  been  said  at  the  close  of  the  hundred  and  fifth  might 

* 

53  B&ihmes  attach  iifitanam s^hti-Samhara-sthiti-kartrlnam Isciya svamine] "srishti- 
sthity-anta  tkafch'im  Brahma-  Vishnu- S'ivatinikam  so,  sanjnam  yati  bhagavan  ekah  eva 
Janardanah"  iti  smriteh  \  "To  the  lord  of  Brahmu,  Ts'ana,  and  Achyuta,  who  are 
th^e 'authors  of  the  creation,  destruction,  and  continuance  (of  the  world) ;  according 
to  the  Srnriti  text :  '  The  divine  Janardana  aloje  receives  the  conjoint  title  of 
Bi^hma,  Vishnu,  and  S'iva,  representing  the  causes  of  the  creation,  continuance  and 
end  (of  the  universe).'"  Such  is  the  manner  in  which  the  commentator  chooses  to 
explain  away  his  teit. 


476  .  APPENDIX. 

lead  to  the  conclusion  that  the  whole  of  the  hundred  and  sixth  section 
was  interpolated.  On  the  other  hand,  it  seems  strange  that  a  passage 
which  appears  to  militate  against  llama's  divine  character  should  be 
a  later  addition.  The  only  conceivable  motive  for  such  an  interpola- 
tion would  be  to  glorify  the  Sun  bj,'  the  insertion  of  this » hymn  in 
celebration  of  his  praise,  an  object  which  docs  not  bear  upon  the  main 
design  of  the  Ramayana.  l 

The  following  is,  on  the  other  hand,  a  passage' which  may  be  under- 
stood as  ascribing  a  superhuman  nature  to  Rama.  After  Yibhishana 
bad  deserted  his  brother  Havana,  and  come  over  to  Rama's  side,  a 
consultation  took  place  among  the  friends  of  the  latter,  whether  the 
deserter  was  deserving  of  confidence  or  not.  Some  regarded  him  with 
suspicion,  but  Rama  himself  was  in  favour  of  receiving  him  with 
open  arms.  In  the  course  of  the  conversation  he  asks  (Yuddha 
Kanda  18,  22  f.,  Bombay  ed.) :  Sa  dushto  va'py  adushto  va^kim  esJia 
rajariicharah  \  sukshmam  apy  ahitam  kartum  mama  saktah  kathanchana  \ 
pisdchun  ddnavan  yalshan  prithivydm  chaiva  rdkshasdn  \  angidy-agrena 
tan  hanydm  ichhan  hari-ganesvara  \  "Whether  the  Rakshasa  be  good 
or  bad,  what,  even  the  smallest,  injury  can  he  do  to  me  in  any  way  ? 
If  I  wish,  I  can  destroy  Pisachas,  Danavas,  Takshas,  and  Rakshasas 
on  the  earth,  with  the  tip  of  my  finger."  51  This  mode  of  expression 

54  On  this  the  commentator  remarks :  Anena  sanTcalpa-siddhir  aisvaram  chihnam 
uktam  |  yady  evam  asmadadi-sangraho  vyarthas  tatra-  aha  "  ichhann "  iti  \  svasya 
niratisaya-mahimanam  tattvikam  Bfahma-bhavam  prakat'ikartum  ichhan  yadi  syam 
tada  tathaiva,  kuryam\  samprati  tu  deva-bhavopeta-nija-vilasair  aseshair  "abadhyat- 
vam  asya  mayaiva  dattam  "  iti  tat-paripalana^/a  sva-divya-bhcivam  sva-saktya  eva 
antardhaya  manusha-maryadayam  sthitya  tad-bhyva-prakatanaya  eva  S~>ta-viyoga- 
prayukta-rodana-vad  bhavadrisa-sahaya-melanam  .  \  vastuto  '  na  svatir'ikta-saha- 
yantarapeksha  mama,  \  manushyanaih  samsara-mnyyada-jnapanam  tad-vyavahara- 
phalam  iti  bhuvah  \  "  By  this  [phrase  '  with  the  tip  of  my  finger ']  the  accomplish- 
ment of  an  intention  is  declared  to  be  the  mark  of  the  De!ty.  If  thus  the  efforts  of 
persons  such  as  we  [men]  are,  be  vain, — in  regard  to  this  the  author  says,  'If  I  wish.' 
If  I  be  desirous  to  manifest  my  fcwn  surpassing  greatness,  my  real  character  as 
Brahma,  then  I  can  do  this.  But  now,  with  the  view  of  maintaining  my  fiat,  [de- 
clared in  the  wordsj  '  I  have  conferred  [on  Eavana]  indestructibility,'  which*?  issued 
agreeably  to  all  the  sportive  manifestations  of  my  divine  nature,  suppressing  that 
celestial  nature  through  my  own  power  by  remaining  within  the  limits  of  humanity, 
with  the  view  of  displaying  that  character,  I  have  associated  with  myself  such  aRies 
as  you,  (Sugrlva),  just  as  I  weptffor  my  separation  from  STta.  In  reality  I  have  no 
need  for  any  other  ally  but  myself.  To  show  to  men  the  limitations  of  worldly 
existence  is  the  fruit  of  my  so  acting.  .Such  is  the  purport."  The  meaning  of  this 
passage  is  clear,  though  I  may  not  hayg  succeeded  in  accurately  rendering  all  the 
phrases  in  it. 


APPENDIX.  477 

rather  points  to  an  inherent  divine  power.  In  Gorresio's  edition  the 
expression  is  somewhat  different.  ^Rama  there  says  (Sundara  K.  91, 
3)  that  he  could  destroy^all  those  t>eingse" forthwith,  and  by  the  power 
of  a  divine  weapon"  (sakto  'ham  s&hasa  hantum  divyendstra-balena  cha), 
which  m<*y  be  understood  of  a^  derived  power.  However  this  may  be, 
it  turned  out  upon  trial  that  Rama  was  unable  to  dispose  of  his  enemies 
so  summarily,  aS  we  haye  seen  above  in  the  case  of  his  conflict  with 
Indrajit  (p.  383  ff.).f 

The  termination  of  Rama's  terrestrial  career  is  thus  told  in  sections 
103  ff.  of  the  Uttara  Kanda.55  Time,  in  the  form  of  an  ascetic,  comfcs 
to  his  palace-gate  (103,  1  ff.),  and  asks,  as  the  messenger  of  the  great 
Rishi  (Brahma),  to  see  Rama.  He  is  admitted  and  received  with 
honour  (v.  8),  but  says,  when  asked  what  he  has  to  communicate,  that 
his  message  must  be  delivered  in  private,  and  that  any  one  who  wit- 
nesses th*e  interview  is  to  be  slain  by  Rama  (v.  11  f.).  Rama  promises 
to  abide  by  this,  informs  Lakshmana  of  it,  and  desires  him  to 
stand  outside  (v.  13  f.).  Time  then  tells  Rama  (104)  that  he  has 
been  sent  by  Brahma  to  say  that  when  he  (Rama,  i.e.  Vishnu),  after 
destroying  the  worlds,  was  sleeping  on  the  ocean,  he  had  formed  him 
(Brahma)  from  the  lotus  springing  from  his  navel,  and  committed  to 
him  the  work  of  creation  (vv.  4-7) ;  that  he  (Brahma)  had  then  en- 
treated Rama  to  assume  the  function  of  Preserver,  and  that  the  latter 
had  in  consequence  become  Vishnu,  being  born  as  the  son  of  Ac&ti 
(v.  9f.),  and  had  determined  to  deliver  mankind  by  destroying  Ravana, 
and  to  live  on  earth  ten  thousand  and  ten  hundred  years  (v.  11  f.) : 
that  period,  adds  Time,  was  now  on  the  eve  of  expiration  (v.  13),  and 
Rama  could  either,  at  his  pleasure,  prolong  his  stay  on  earth,  or  ascend 
to  heaven  and  rule  over  the  gods  (v.  14  f.).  Rama  replies  (v.  18)  that 
he  had  been  born  fo*  the  good  of  the  three  worlds,  and  would  now 

*> 

return  to  the  place  whence  he  had  come^  as  it  was  his  function  to  fulfil 
the  purposes  of  the  gods.  *\Vhile  they  are  speaking,  the  irritable  rishi 
DurvSSas88  comes*  to  visit  Bama,  and  when  Lakshmana  asks  him  to  wait 
a  little,  insists  on  being  introduced  into  the  presence  of  the  former  im- 
m«diately,  under  a  threat,  if  refused,  of  cursing  Rama,  his  city,  kingdom, 

I 

55  All  the  references  to  this  Kanda  apply  to  the  Bombay  edition.     I  have  not  seeu 
Gorresio's  edition  of  this  book. 
.  56  Compare  p.  196,  above.  • 


478  APPENDIX.        i 

and  all  his  family  (105,  1  ff.).  Lakshmana,  peferring  to  save  his  kins- 
men, though  knowing  that  his  own  death  must  he  the  consequence 
of  interrupting  the  interview  of  Kfeia  with  Time,  enters  the  palace, 
and  reports  the  rishi's  message  to  Ra/n'a  (v.  9).  Kama  dismisses  Time, 
conies  out,  and  receives  Durvasas,  and'  when  the  sage  has  got  the  food 
he  wished,  and  departed,  Rama  reflects  with  'great  distress  on  the 
words  of  Time,  which  require  that  Lakshmana,  should 'die  (vv.  10-16). 
Lakshmana,  however  (106,  2  ff.),  exhorts  Kama  "not  to  grieve,  but  to 
slay  him,  and  not  break  his  "own  promise.  The  counsellors  who  are 
consulted  concurring  in  this  advice  (vv.  5  ff.),  Kama  abandons  Laksh- 
mana, (v.  13)  who  goes  to  the  river  Sarayu,  suppresses  all  his  senses 
(nigrihya  sarva-srotamsi\  and  after  the  gods  had  showered  down  flowers 
upon  him,  is  conveyed  bodily  by  Indra  to  heaven  (vv.  15  ff.).  The 
gods  are  delighted  by  the  arrival  of  the  fourth  part  of  Yishnu  (v.  18). 
Kama  then  resolves  to  install  Bharata  as  his  successor,  and' retire  to 
the  forest  and  follow  Lakshmana  (107,  1  ff.).  Bharata,  however, 
refuses  the  succession,  and  determines  to  accompany ,  his  brother 
(v.  5  f.).  Kama's  subjects  are  filled  with  grief,  and  say  they  also 
will  follow  him  wherever  he  goes  (vv.  9  ff.).  Kusa  and  Lava, 
Kama's  two  sons,57  are  then  installed  as  kings  of  the  Southern  and 
Northern  Kosalas  (vv.  17  ff.).  Messengers  are  sent  to  S'atrughna, 
the  other  brother,  at  Madhura,  and  he  also  resolves  to  accompany 
Kfcma  (108,  1-14);  who  at  length  sets  out  in  procession  from  his 
capital  with  all  the  ceremonial  appropriate  to  the  "great  departure" 
(maha-prasthana,  109,  1  ff.),  silent,  indifferent  to  external  objects,  and 
to  ease,  with  S'rl  on  his  right,  the  goddess  tEarth  on  his  left,  Energy  in 
front,  attended  by  all  his  weapons  in  human  shapes,  by  the  Vedas  in 
the  form  of  Brahmans,  by  the  all-protecting  Gayatri,  the  Omkara,  the 
Vashatkara,  by  rishis,  by  earthly  divinities  (i.e.  Brahmans,  mahisurah}, 
by  his  women,  female  slaves,  old  and  young,  eunuchs  (varshavardK), 

9 

and  servants.  Bharata  with  his  wives,  and  S'atrughna,  follow,  together 
with  Brahmans  bearing  the  sacred  fire,  and  accompanied  by""  their 
families,  with  the  ministers  of  state,  and  the  whole  of  the  people  of  the 
country,  and  even  with  animals,  and  birds,  etc.,  etc.  Kama,  with  jj.ll 
these  attendants,  comes  t£  the  banks  of  the  Sarayu  (sect.  110). 
Brahma,  and  all  the  gods,  in  innumerable  celestial  cars,  now  appear, 
57  See  Wilson's  Vishnu  Puran^  vol.  iii.  p.  318  (Dr.  Hall's  ed.). 


APPENDIX.  479 

and  all  the  sky  is  refulgent  with  the  divine  splendour  of  their  ap- 
parition. Pure,  fragrant,  and  delightful  breezes  blow,  a  shower  of 

1^ 

flowers  falls,  thrown  t>y,  the.  gods.*    While  hundreds  of  musical  instru- 

*  I* 

ments  sound,  and  th'e  air  is  crowded  with  Gandharvas  and  Apsarases, 

*      *  * 

Rama  enters  the  waters  of  the   Sarayii ;  and  Brahma  utters  a  voice 

•          I         . 
from   the   sky,   sayin'g : »  "Approach,    Vishnu;    Raghava,    thou  hast 

happily  arrived,  with  ^thy  god-like  brothers.  Enter  whatever  body 
thou  pleasest,  thine 'own  body  as  Vishnu,  or  the  eternal  ether.  For 
thou  art  the  abode  of  the  worlds  {lokh-gatih} :  no  one  comprehends 
thee,  the  inconceivable  and  imperishable,  except  the  large-eyed  Maya,- 
thy  primeval  spouse."  Hearing  these  words,  Rama  enters  the  glory 
of  Yishnu  ( Vaishnavam  tejas}  with  his  body  and  his  followers ;  and 
is  worshipped  by  the  gods,  rishis,  etc.  He  then  asks  Brahma 'to  find 
an  abode  for  the  people  who  had  accompanied  him  from  devotion  to 
his  person,  and  Brahma  appoints  them  a  celestial  residence  accordingly 
(lokdn  santdnaJcdn').58 

Instead  of  describing  any  such  resumption  of  his  divine  nature,  the 
Mahabhai-ata,  which  in  the  Drona-parvan  2224-2248,  refers  to  Rama 
as  one  of  the  great  kings  of  old,  merely  speaks  in  v.  2246  of  his  going 
to  heaven  with  four  kinds  of  creatures  (chaturmdlidh  >prajd~h  Rdmah 
svargam  nitvd  divam- gatah].  He  is,  however,  celebrated  in  the  most 
hyperbolical  language,  as  where  he  is  said  (v.  2235)  to  "have  trans- 
cended all  beings,  rishis,  gods,  and  men  "  (Ati  sarvdni  bhutdni  Rumo 
Ddsaratlur  labliau  \  rishlndm  devatdnfin^  cha  mdnushdndm  clia  sarvasah\ 
but  no  reference  is  made  to  his  being  an  incarnation  of  Vishnu..  The 
word  isvara  applied  to  him  in  v.  2242  may  mean  only  "lord,"  and 

y  9 

need  not  be  employed  in  the  sense'  of  "god."  (This  passage  is  re- 
ferred to  in  Professor  !M.  "NVilliams's  Indian  Epic  Poetry,  p.  104.) 
The  Ramopakhyana*  (see  further  on)  in  the  Mahabharata  does  not 
describe  the  apotheosis  of  Rama  at  all. 


The  probability  that  many  of  the  verses  in  the  preceding  passages 

which  I  have  above  suspected  to  be  spurious  may  really  be  such,  is 

I 

<58  These  worlds  are  explained  by  the  commentator  as  realms  an  abode  in  which 
gradually  leads  to  final  liberation  by  the  attainment  of  Brahma's  heaven  (Kramena 
Brahma-loka-prapti-dvara,  mukti-janakan}. 


480  APPENDIX. 

greatly  strengthened  by  the  fact  that  the  commentators  on  the  poem 
themselves  note  various  texts  which,  they  regard  as  interpolated.  Thus 
the  commentator  an  Kishk.  K.,  feet.  4&  (Bombay  ed.),  remarks  on  46  ff. : 
Hah  uttaram  kechit  slokdh  "ramantet^atatam  tatra  ndrlbhih  bhtisvara- 
prabhdh"  (v.  50)  ity  antdh  slokuh  prakshiptdh  prdchlna-pt*stakeshv 
anupalamlhdd  iti  Katakah  I  "Kataka  (a  previous  commentator)  says 
that  after  this  some  verses  ending  with  the  wor^s  (in  th'e  fiftieth  verse) 
'They  sport  there  resplendent,  along  with  their  women,'  are  rejected, 
because  they  are  not  found  in  the  old  copies." 

'  At  the  end  of  the  twenty- third  section  of  the  Uttara  Kan  da  the 
commentator  remarks:  Itah param pancha-sargdh prakshiptdh  bodhydh\ 
"After  this  five  sections  are  to  be  regarded  as  rejected."  On  these 
sections,  to  which  he  assigns  separate  numbers,  he  gives  no  commentary. 
In  the  first  of  these  sections,  v.  42,  Kansa  is  mentioned  by  anachronism. 
At  the  end  of  the  thirty-seventh  section  of  the  same  book  the  com- 
mentator furnishes  the  following  piece  of  sensible  criticism:  Etad- 
uttaram  BdU-Sugrlvotpattltihdso  Rdvanasya  S'vetadvlpa-gamanetihdsas 
cha  katipayaih  sargair  Agastyoktitayd  kvachit  pustakeshu  drisyante  \  te 
tu  purva-sargdnte  eva  Agastyasya  svdsrama-gamana-kathandd  asangatdh 

EatalM-Tirthady-anadritatvach  cha  mat/a  ''pi  na  vyakhyatdh  I    "  That 

•(. 
which   follows — viz.    the    tale   of    the   birth    of    Bali   and   Sugriva, 

and  the  story  of  Havana's  journey  to  S'veta-dvlpa — is  found  in  some 
copies,  as  being  related  by  Agastya  in  several  sections.  But  as  these 
sections  are  inconsistent  with  cch»e  account  [given]  at  the  end  of  the 
previous  section  (36,  vv.  51,  58  f.)  of  Agastya's  departure  to  his 
hermitage,  and  have  not  been  received  by.Kataka,  Tlrtha,  and  other 
[previous  commentators],  I  also  have  left  them  uncommented."  These 
sections  are  accordingly  without  any  commentary. 

Again,  at  the  close  of  section  59,  he  remarks'!  Etad  uttaram  sva- 
matur  akhydnam  gridhrolukdkjiydnancJia  kvachid  driiyate  \  Tlrtha- 
Katakddy-asprishtatvena  pralcshiptam  iti  na  vydkhydtam  \  "The  story 
of  the  dog's  mother  and  that  of  the  vultuve  and  owl  which  follow, 
are  found  in  some  copies :  but  as  they  are  left  untouched  by  Tlrtha, 
Kataka,  and  others,  they  are  rejected,  and  consequently  have  not  beeu 
explained." 

From  these  extracts  it  is  clear  that  various  passages  which  are  still 
preserved  in  the  Ramayana  were*  regarded  by  the  commentators  as 


APPENDIX.  481 

spurious  because  they  were  not  to  bg  found  in  the  oldest  MSS.  extant 
in  their  day,  or  because  they  contained  something  inconsistent  with  the 
context  in  which  they,  occur.  The  jiylgment  of  these  commentators 
is  no  doubt  correct,  especially  a*s»fjhey  must  have  been  well  acquainted 
with  thi  habit  which,  we  ne^ed  nojt  hesitate  to  assume,  prevailed  in 
their  day,  of  interpolating  legendary  works  such  as  the  Puranas 
and  Itihasas,  Ihe  style  of  which,  from  its  simplicity,  offers  the 
greatest  facilities  for* imitation.  But  if  such  interpolation  be  admitted 
by  the  commentators  as  practised  in  their  time,  it  is  natural  to  suppose 
that  it  must  have  been  practised  at  an  earlier  period  also.  And  the 
example  of  the  JVtahabharata  confirms  this  supposition. 

After  reviewing  most  of  the  passages,  which  I  have  cited  aljove,  in 
which  Kama's  divine  character  is  alluded  to,  as  they  are  given  in  his 
own  edition,  and,  in  addition,  the  section  which  I  have  cited  in 
p.  180  *ff.,59  Signor  Gorresio  remarks  as  follows  (vol.  v.,  Preface, 
p.  xlvii.  f.) :  "What  are  we  to  conclude  from  all  this?  Notwith- 
standing the  citations  adduced,  I  would  not  yet  venture  to  pronounce 
a  definitive  judgment  on  this  question  "  (whether  the  idea  of  the  in- 
carnation of  Vishnu  in  Rama  was  an  original  part  of  the  conception 
of  the  poem,  or  interpolated).  "  The  passages  quoted  only  prove^that 
the  interpolation,  if  it  be  such,  has  been  made  with  great  study  and 
much  art.  But  in  order  thoroughly  to  elucidate  this  question,  we 
must  have  recourse  to  other  documents,  and  seek  for  other  proofs  and 
indications  than  the  poem  itself  sup"pfies.  Our  sentence,  therefore, 
remains  suspended." 


The  Mahabharata  ttlso  contains,  a  history  of  llama,  (Ramopakhyana) 
which  is  told  to  Yudhishthira  by  the  page  Markandeya,  in  the  Vana- 
parvan,  vv.  1 5872-1 660$.  In  this  episode  it  is  briefly  related  (v. 
X587S**f.)  thai  Ifasaratha  had  four  sons,  born  of  his  three  queens. 

^9  On  this  passage  he  observes  (p.  xlvii.) :  "  Among  the  names  here  assigned  to 
Vishnu  some  of  a  sufficiently  suspicious  character  ail  found,  such  as  that  of  Krishna, 
which  I  do  not  recollect  to  have  discovered  in  any  other  part  of  the  poem.  Besides, 
this  chapter  has  no  close  bond  to  connect  it  with  the  context,  and  might  be  removed 
without  the  least  injury  to  the  poem."  * 

VOL.  Yv.  i  31 


482  APPENDIX. 

The  birth  and  history  of  Ravana  and  his  brothers  are  described  in 
much  greater  detail  (vv.  15881-1,5928),  and  many  particulars  are 
given  which  do  not  occur  in  thp  earlier  part  of  <the  Ramayana,  though 
the  Uttara  Kanda  contains  a  similar  account.  According  to  the 
episode  in  the  Mahabharata,  Brahma  had  a  mental  son  Pulastya,  who 
again  had  a  son  Gaviputra  Vaisravana  (v.  15883).  The  latter  deserted 
his  father  and  went  to  Brahma,  who  as  a  reward, made  him  immortal  and 
appointed  him  to  be  the  god  of  riches,  with  Lanka  for  his  capital,  and 
the  car  Pushpaka  for  his  vehicle  (vv.  15886  ff.).  His  father,  Pulastya, 
however,  being  incensed  at  this  desertion  of  himself,  reproduced  the 
half  of  himself  in  the  form  of  Visravas,  vv.  15884  (tasya  Icopdt  pita, 
rdjan  sfisarjdtmdnam  dtmand  \  sa  jajne  VisravdTi  ndma  tasydtmdrdhena 
vai  dvijah  \  and  again,  v.  15889  :  Pulastyasya  tu  yah  krodhdd  ardhadeho 
'lhavad  munih  \  Visravdh  ndma  ityddi}.  This  Visravas  looked  upon 
Vaisravana  with  indignation.  The  latter  strove  to  pacify  his  father 60 
(v.  15890  ff.),  and  with  this  view  gave  him  three  elegant  Rakshasis 
to  attend  on  him :  Pushpotkata,  who  had  two  sons,  Ravana  and 
Kumbhakarna ;  Malini,  who  bore  Vibhishana;  and  Raka,  who  bore 
Khara  and  S'urpanakha.  These  sons  were  all  valiant,  skilled  in  the 
Ved<a,  and  observers  of  religious  rites;  but  perceiving  the  prosperity 
of  Vaisravana,  they  were  filled  with  jealousy.  They  accordingly 
(except  Khara  and  Surpanakha)  began  to  practise  austerities  to  pro- 
pitiate Brahma,  and  at  the  end  of  a  thousand  years  Ravana  cut  off 
his  own  head  and  threw  it  as  ''an  oblation  into  the  fire  (v.  15908). 
Brahma  then  appeared  to  stop  their  austerities  and  offer  them  boons 
(except  that  of  immortality).61  He  ordained  that  .Ravana  should  have 
heads  and  shapes  at  will,  and  should  be  invincible,  except  by  men ; 
that  Kumbhakarna,  who  was  influenced  by  the  quality  of  darkness 
(tamas\  should,  according  to  his  request,  enjoy  long  sleep62  (so,  vavre 

6°  Visravas  is  here  meant,  although  according  to  v.  15883  ff.  Pulastya  reproduced 
himself  as  Vi-r'ravas  after  the  birth  of  Vais'ravana,  aiid  in  consequence  of  1j?f  latter 
having  deserted  his  father  in  his  original  form  as  Pulastya.  Vais'it  vana  means  the 
son  of  Vis'ravas,  and  in  v.  15925,  Vais'ravana  (Kuvera)  is  said  to  be  the  brother  of 
VibhTshana,  who  must  have  been  the  son  of  Vis'ravas,  as  his  brother  Eavana  is  cabled 
in  v.  15930. 

61  See  above,  p.  223  and  p.  488,  below. 

62  This  disagrees  with  the  statement  in  the  Eamayana  (quoted  above,  p.  462)  that 
he  was  doomed  to  long  sleep  as  a  curse. 


APPENDIX.  483 

maJiatlm  nidrdm  tamasd  grasta-cJietar^ah,  v.  15916).  Vibhishaiva  asks 
that  even  in  the  greatest  misfortune  he  may  never  meditate  any  un- 
righteousness, and  that  the  Brahman's  weapon  may  become  manifest 
to  him  without  being;  learned.63  •  Brahma  promises  him  immortality. 
Having  obtained  the  power  abr^ve  de^ribed,  Havana  expels  Vaisravana 
(Kuvera)  from  Lanka  (v.' 15920).  The  righteous  Vibhlshana  follows 
his  brother64  (v.  15 925 ), Kuvera,  who  had  retired  to  Gandhamadana 
(v.  15921).  Ravana  having  been  installed  as  king,  and  begun  to 
exercise  his  power  tyrannically,  the  rishis  resort  for  deliveran.ee 
to  Brahma  (v.  15929  if.),  who  promises  that  as  Havana  could  not  be 
killed  either  by  gods  or  Asuras,  the  four-armed  Vishnu,  the  chief  of 

63  A4ikshitaneha  bhagavan  Brahmastram  pratibh'dtu  me  \      See  the  second  volume 
of  this  work,  2nd  ed.,  p.  416,  where  the  sense  of  the  line  is  not  correctly  rendered. 
See  the  note  on  a  similar  line  from  the  Uttara  Kanda  of  the  Ramayana  below  in 
p.  489.     IA  v.  15897  Vibhlshaua  is  said  to  be  the  handsomest  of  Pulastya's  sons 
(rupena  sarvebhyo  'bhyadhikah],  and  a  protector  of  righteousness,  and  practiser  of 
religious  rites  (dharma-gopta  kriyaratiJi). 

64  In  v.  16157  f.  Vibhlshana  is  said  to  dwell,  shaded  by  a  white  umbrella,  and  with 
white  garlands,  on  the  S'vetaparvata,  or,  "white  mountain,"  attended  by  his  four 
counsellors,  and  apart  from  his  disreputable  brothers  Kumbhakarna,  etc.,  who,  naked, 
with  dishevelled  hair,  and  red  garlands,  frequented  the  south.     In  v.  16314  f.  he  is 
said  to  join  Rama,  and  it  is  not  mentioned  whence  he  comes;  but  as  his  treachery^  at 
first  suspected  by  Sugriva,  it  might  appear  to  be  implied  that  -he  came  from  Lanka,  as 
is  expressly  related  in  the  Ram.,  vi.  17,  1,  Bombay  ed.     In  Gorr.  ed.  (Sundara  KSnda, 
89,  1-43)  forty-two  verses  are  introduced  between  the  two  lines  which  make  up  the 
first  verse  of  the  17th  section  of  book  sixth  in  the  Bombay  ed.     That  verse  states  that 
after  addressing  some  harsh  words  to  Havana,  TfilATshana  came  immediately  to  Rama. 
Gorresio's  text  adds  that  after  leaving  his  brother,  Vibhlshana  first  tells  his  mother 
all  that  had  happened,  and  then  weni  through  the  air  to  Kailasa,  the  residence  of 
Vais'ravana  (Kuvera.  v.  4).     Before  his  arrival,  however,  Mahadeva  had  gone  with 
Uma  and  his  attendants  to  the  abode  of  Kuvera  (vv.  6  ff.),  had  dismounted  from  his 
bull,  and  entered  the  assembly;  when  the  two  gods  embraced  each  other,  sat  down, 
and  began  to  play  at  dice.     At  this  conjuncture  Mahadeva  sees  VibhTshana  approach- 
ing* and  tells  Kuvera  that  Tie  has  come  to,  seek  his  protection  ;  but  that  he  ought  to 
go  to  Rama,  who  would  install  him  as  monarch  of  the  Rakshasas  (vv.  11  ff.).     Vibhl- 
shana arrives,  kneels  and  touches  the  ground  with  his  forehead,  when  the  two  gods 
give  him  the  advice  which  M^hadesa  had  proposed  (vv.  21  ff.)t     Vibhlshana  re- 
mains Enough tful_,(v.  "36).      MahJdeva  again  addresses  him  (v.  37),  and  tells  him 
to  "  rise  and  resort  to  the  ancient  lord,  the  imperishable,  the  support  of  all  beings, 
the  eternal,  the  irresistible,  the  treasury  of  righteousness,  the  refuge  of  those  who 
seek  him,  the  root  of  the  whole  world,  Rama"  (v.  39)   (Tasmad  uttishtha  gachha 
tvan  puranam  prabhum  avyayam\  adharam  sarva-bhatanam  sasvatamniravagraham\ 
40.  Sa  hi  dhurma-nidhannm  cha  gatir  gatimataih  varah  \  Jcritsnasya  jagato  mulam 
tasmad gachhasva  Rnghavam).     Vibhlshana  hereupon  rises,  makes  obeisance  to  the 
two  gods,  and  goes  to  Rama  through  the  skj*(vv.  41  ff.). 


484  APPENDIX. 

warriors,  should,  by  his  (Brahma's)  appointment,  descend  to  earth  for 
his  destruction  (tad-artham  avatlrtc)  'sau  man-niyogdch  chaturbhujah  \ 
Vishnuh  praharatdm  sreshthaJp  sa  tat  karma  tarishyati}.  No  account 
is,  however,  given  of  the  way  in  rtfhich  Yi?hnin  was  to  become  in- 
carnate in  one  or  more  of  the  sons<  of  Ds  saratha ;  or  how  this  was  ac- 
complished. Brahma  also,  desired  Indra  and  the  other  gods  to  be  born 
on  earth,  and  beget  on  the  she-bears  and  she-n*onkeys  sons  who  should 
assist  Vishnu,  which  they  accordingly  did.  He  also  gave  injunctions 
and  instructions  to  a  Gandharvi  called  Dundubhl,  who  was  born  on 
earth  as  the  hunchbacked  Manthara,  and  stirred  up  enmity  by  urging 
Kaikeyi  to  claim  the  succession  to  Dasaratha's  throne  for  her  own  son 
Bharata  (vv.  15934  f.,  and,  15960  ff.). 

Whether  the  portion  of  the  episode  which  relates  the  earlier  history 
of  Havana,  and  the  means  adopted  by  Brahma  for  his  destruction, 
formed  an  original  part  of  the  poem,  I  need  not  attempt  to  decide ; 
but  an  allusion  is  afterwards  made  in  a  later  part  of  it  to  the  monkeys 
of  Rama's  army  having  been  begotten  by  the  gods  (v.  1 6309),  where 
Sagara,  the  Ocean,  who  had  appeared  to  Rama,  is  introduced  as  saying : 
Asti  tatra  Nalo  ndmo  vdnarah  silpi-sammatah  \  Tvashtur  devasya  tanayo 
lahvdn  Visvakarmanah  \  "  There  is  there  a  monkey  called  Nala,  ap- 
proved by  artizans,  the  strong  son  of  the  god  Tvashtri  Visvakarman." 

The  main  incidents  in  this  episode  agree,  as  far  as  I  have  examined 
them,  with  those  of  the  Ramayana :  though  there  are  some  minor 
points  in  which  there  is  a  difference  between  the  two.  Thus  the 
larger  poem  appears  (as  far  as  I  have  Ipoked  into  it)  to  say  nothing  of 
Manthara  being  the  incarnation  of  a  Gandharvi,  thovgh  this  is  alluded 
to  by  the  commentator  in  ii.  7,  1  of  the  Bombay  edition,  in  these 
words :  AtJia  Sltdydh  Lankd-pura-pravesam  vind  Rdvana-ladJmsydsak- 
yatayd  tat-siddhaye  devaih^preritdydhkrita-kuljd-veshaydh  Manthardydh 

Rdrndbhisheka-vighna-pravritt'tm vaktum  upakramate  \    "Now 

since  Ravana  cpuld  not  be  killed  unlessr  Sltarentered  into  Lanka, — with 

r  •*;' 

a  view  to  the  accomplishment  of  that,  he  (the  poet)  begins  to  relate 
how  Manthara,  who  had  been  sent  by  the  gods,  and  had  taken  the 
disguise  of  a  hunchback,  J-hrew  obstacles  in  the  way  of  Ravana's' in- 
auguration, etc."  Again,  as  we  have  already  seen,  long  periodis  of 
sleep  are  said,  in  the  larger  poem,  to  have  been  inflicted  by  Brahma  on 
Kumbhakarna  as  a  curse,  but  in 'the  episode  to  have  been  granted  as  a 


APPENDIX.  485 

boon.66  The  account  which  will  be  given  below  from  the  Mahabharata 
is  a  sort  of  reconciliation  of  these  two  statements.  Another  discrepancy 
noticed  by  the  commentator  has,  teen  already  cited  above,  p.  415, 
note  193.  .  '  „  ' 

In  the  sequel  of  $ie  story,  as  given  in  the  Mahabharata,  it  is  said 
that,  after  the  destruqtion  of  Ravaiik,  and  the  appearance  of  the  gods 
to  persuade  Rajna  to  take  back  his  wife  Sfita,  Brahma  offered  Rama 
any  boons  he  might,,  choose,  and  that  Rama  accordingly  desired  that 
he  might  continue  steadfast  in  righteousness,  and  unconquered  by  his 
enemies ;  and  solicited  the  resurrection  of  the  monkeys  who  had  been^ 
killed  by  the  Rakshasas  (vv.  16570  ff.).  The  poet,  who  represents 
Rama  as  consenting  to  receive  these  boons  from  Brahma,  could  scarcely 
have  regarded  him  as  the  Supreme  Spirit}  as  he  is  declared  in  some 
parts  of  the  Ramayana  to  have  been  (see  above,  p.  180  ff.).  The  last 
act  of  his  which  is  described  (vv.  16600  f.)  is  the  celebration  of  ten 
asvamedhas.  No  reference  is  made  to  his  death. 

As  I  have  noticed  above,  the  Uttara  Kanda  of  the  Ramayana  contains 
an  account  of  the  birth;  and  a  sketch  of  the  earlier  history,  of  Ravana 
and  his  brothers,  which  varies  in  some  particulars  from  the  narrative 
in  the  Mahabharata.  "We  are  there  told  how  after  Rama  had  returned 
to  Ayodhya,  and  taken  possession  of  the  throne,  the  rishis  assembled 
from  the  east,  west,  north,  and  south,  to  greet  him  (1,  1  ff.),  and 
Agastya,  in  answer  to  his  questions,  recounted  many  particulars  re- 
garding his  old  enemies.  In  the  Krita  Yuga  (or  Golden  Age)  the 
austere  and  pious  Brahman-rishi  Pulastya,  a  son  of  Brahma,  and  who 
was  like  his  father,  being  teaaed  with  the  vicinity,  sports,  singing,  and 
dancing  of  different  damsels,  who  interrupted  his  austerities,66  pro- 
claimed that  any  one  of  them  whom  he  again  saw  near  his  hermitage, 

on  the  side  of  Mount  Meru,  should  become  pregnant.    The  others  kept 

,» 

65  The  story  of  Bamt>ha?  which  is  related  in  the  passage  referred  to  ahove  (461  f.),  is 
in  thisepisode  briefly  sketched  jn  these  words  (v.  16151  ff.):  NalakTyiara-sapena,  rafcshita 
hy  asi  nandini[^sapto  liy  esha  p\ira  papo  badhurn  RambKim  paramrishan  \  na  s'aknoty 
avasam  narim,  upaitum  ajitendriyah  \    "Thou  art  protected,  charming  one,  (i.e.  Sita) 
bythe  curse  of  Nalakuvara.    For  this  wicked  being  of  unrestrained  passions  (Ravana), 
h'aving  formerly  been  cursed  when  insulting  his  (N.'s)  wife  Rambha,  is  unable  to  ap- 
proach a  helpless  woman."     See  also  v.  16563  f. ;  ^and  p.  461  f.,  above. 

66  "Not  intentionally,"  says  the  commentator  on  v.  8,  "but  like  (dried)  grass  and 
fire  "  (trinagni-nyayena  na  tu  buddhi-purvam). 


486  APPENDIX. 

at  a  distance,  but  the  threat  had  not  been  heard  by  the  daughter  of 
the  royal-rishi  Trinavindu,  who  oQe  day  came  into  Pulastya's  neigh- 
bourhood, and  her  pregnancy  was  tffe,  result  (sect.,  2,  vv.  14  if.).  After 
her  return  home,  her  father,  seeing  her  .condition,  took  her  to  Pulastya, 

OT 

who  accepted  her  as  his  wife,  and°sh3  bore  a  s6n  who  received  the 
name  of  Visravas  (v.  32).  This  s*6n  wds,  like  bis  father,  an  austere 
and  religious  sage.  He  married  the  daughter  of  the  mvni  Bharadvaja, 
who  bore  him  a  son,  to  whom  Brahma  gave  thy  n?me  of  Yaisravana= 
Kuvera  (sect.  3,  vv.  1  ff.).  The  latter  performed  austerity  for  thousands 
of  _  years,  when  he  obtained  from  Brahma  as  a  boon,  that  he  should  be 
one  of  the  guardians  of  the  world  [along  with  Indra,  Yaruna,  and 
Yama]  and  the  god  of  riches  (vv.  11  if.).  He  afterwards  consulted 
his  father  Yisravas  about  an-  abode,  and,  at  his  suggestion,  took  posses- 
sion of  the  city  of  Lanka,  which  had  formerly  been  built  by  Yisva- 
karman  for  the  Rakshasas,  but  had  been  abandoned  by  them  .through 
fear  of  Yishnu,  and  was  at  that  time  unoccupied  (vv.  23  ff.).  Rama 
then  (sect.  4)  says  he  is  surprised  to  hear  that  Lanka  had  formerly 
belonged  to  the  Rakshasas,  as  he  had  always  understood  that  they 
were  the  descendants  of  Pulastya,  and  now  he  learns  that  they  had 
also  another  origin  (v.  4.  Pulastya-vamsad  udbhtitah  rdkshasdh  iti  nah 
smtdZi  |  idamm  anyatas  chupi  sambhavah  klrtitas  tvaya).  He  there- 
fore asks  who  was  their  ancestor,  and  what  fault  they  had  committed 
tha.t  they  were  chased  away  by  Yishnu.  Hearing  the  polished 
(samskaralankritam) 67  words  of  Rama,  Agastya  replies  (w.  9  ff.)  that 
when  Brahma  created  the  waters,  he  formed  certain  beings — some  of 
whom  received  the  name  of  Rakshasas-^to  guard  them.68  The  first 
Rakshasa  kings  were  Heti  and  Praheti  (v.  I'4).  Heti'married  Bhaya, 
the  sister  of  Kala  (Time).  She  bore  him  a  son  Yidyutkesa  (v.  17),  who 
in  his  turn  took  for  his  wife  Salankatankata,  the  daughter  of  Sandhya 
(v.  21).  She  bore  him  a  son  Sukes'a  (v.  32),  whom  she  abandoned 
(v.  24),  but  he  was  seen  by  S'iva,  as  he  was  pacsing  by  with  his  wife 
Parvati  (v.  27  ff.£,  who  made  the  child  as  mature  as  ,his  mothes-/  and 
immortal,  and  gave  him  a  city  which  moved  through  the  ether.  Parvati, 
too,  gave  as  a  boon  to  the  Rakshasa  women  the  power  of  immediate 
conception  and  parturition,  afid  to  their  children  instant  maturity  equal 

67  See  the  second  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  157-159. 

68  See  Note  A.,  p  439. 


APPENDIX.  487 

to  that  of  their  mothers  (v.  30  f.).  Sukesa  married  a  Gandharvl  called 
Devavati  (sect.  5,  v.  3),  who  bore  three  sons,  Malyavat,  Sumali,  and  Mali 
(v.  6).  These  sons.  practised  inje*hse  austerities  (v.  9),  when  Brahma 
appeared  (v.  12),  and  conferred,  on  them*  invincibility  and  long  life.(15). 
They  tljen  harassed  thd  gods  aad'Asuras  (16).  Visvakarman,  at  their 
request,  gave  them  ™a  city,  LankaJ  on  the  mountain  Trikuta,  on  the 
shore  of  the  southern  ocean,  which  he  had  built  (vv.  18  ff.).  They 
marry  the  three  daughters  of  the  Gandharvl  Narmada.  Malyavat'  s 
wife,  Sundari,  bears  Vajramushti,  Virupaksha,  Durmukha,  Suptaghna, 
Yajnakopa,  Matta,  TJnmatta,  and  one  daughter  Anala  (v.  35.  ff.}. 
Sumali'  s  wife,  Ketumati,  bears  Prahasta,  Kampana,  Vikata,  Kalika- 
mukha,  Dhumraksha,  Dan  da,  Suparsva,  Sanhradi,  Praghasa,  Bha- 
sakarna,  and  four  daughters,  Kaka,  -Pushpotkata,  Kaikasi,  and 
KumbhinasI  (w.  39  ff.).  Mali's  wife,  Vasuda,  bore  Anala,  Nila, 
Hara,  and'  Sampati  (v.  43).  The  three  Rakshasas,  Malyavat  and  his 
two  brothers,  with  their  sons,  continue  to  oppress  the  gods,  rishis, 
etc.  (v.  44),  who  (sect  6,  v.  1  ff.)  in  consequence  resort  for  aid  to 
Mahadeva,  "  the  creator  and  destroyer  of  the  world,  the  unborn,  im- 
perceptible, the  support  of  all  worlds  "  (Jagat-srishty-anta-kartaram 
ajam  avyakta-rupinam  \  ddhdram  8arva-bhutunam\  who,  having  regard 
to  his  proteg£  Sukesa  (the  father  of  Malyavat,  etc.,  see  abov*},  says 
that  he  cannot  kill  the  Rakshasas  (v.  10);  but  advises  the  suppliants 
to  go  to  Vishnu,  which  they  do  (v.  12),  and  receive  from  him  a  promise 
that  he  will  destroy  their  enemies  (y.  21).  One  of  the  three  Rakshasa 
kings,  hearing  of  this,  informs  his  brothers,  and,  after  consultation 
(v.  23  ff.),  they  proceed  to  heaven  to  attack  the  gods  (v.  46),  unterrified 
by  the  portends  which  wtre  manifested  (vv.  53  ff.).  Vishnu  prepares 
to  meet  them  (v.  63).  The  battle  is  described  in  the  seventh  section. 
The  Rakshasas  are  ^defeated  by  Vishnu  with  great  slaughter,  and  driven 
back  to  Lanka,  one  of  their'  leaders,  Mali,  being  slain  (w.  42  ff.). 
Malyavat  remonstrates  with  Vishnu,  who  was  assaulting  the  rear  of  the 
fugitives,  on  his  unwamorlike  conduct  (no,  jamshetlcshatram  dharmam 

j  ' 

m,)^  and  wishes  to   renew  the  combat  (sect.  8,  v.  3  ff.). 


69  The  next  verse  (4)  adds  :  Paraiimukha-vadham  papam  yah  Jcaroti  sureivara  \  sa 
''  hanta  na  gatah  svargam  labhate  punya-karnihnam  \    "  The  slayer  who  wickedly 
slaughters  foes  who  have  turned  their  backs,  after  his  death  does  not  attain  to  the 
heaven  of  the  meritorious." 


488  APPENDIX. 

Vishnu  replies  that  he  must  fulfil  his  promise  to  the  gods  by  slaying 
the  Rakshasas,  and  that  he  would1  destroy  them  even-  if  they  fled  to 
Patala  (v.  7  ff.).  *The  battle  is  rented,  but  ^jilyavat  and  Sumali 
are  driven  into  Lanka  (v.  20),  and  being  unable  to-  withstand  Vishnu, 
at  length  retire  to  Patala  (v.  22).  'These  Raksh&sas,  Agastya  says, 
were  more  powerful  than  Ravana,  arfd  couH  only  be  destroyed  by  Nara- 
yana,  i.e.  by  Rama  himselfy  the  eternal  indestructible  god  (v.  24  ff.). 
Sumali  with  his  family  lived  for  a  long  time  ih  Patala,  while  Kuvera 
dwelt  in  Lanka  (v.  29).  In  ssction  9  it  is  related  that  Sumali  once 
happened  to  visit  the  earth,  when  he  observed  Kuvera  going  in  his 
chariot  to  see  his  father  Visravas.  This  leads  him  to  consider  how  he 
might  restore  his  own  fortunes.  He  consequently  desires  his  daughter 
Kaikasl'-to  go  and  woo  Visravas  (v.  12),  who  receives  her  graciously 
(vv.  18  ff.).  She  becomes  the  mother  of  the  dreadful  Havana  (v.  29) 
whose  birth  was  succeeded  by  portents,  of  the  huge  Kurnbh/ikarna 
(v.  34),  of  Surpanakha,  and  of  the  righteous  Vibhishana,  who  was 
the  last  son  (v.  35),70  and  whose  nativity  was  followed  by  a  shower  of 
celestial  flowers,  by  the  sound  of  celestial  drums,  and  exclamations 
of  delight  in  the  air  (v.  36).  These  children  grow  up  in  the  forest. 
Kumbhakarna  goes  about  eating  rishis  (v.  38).  Yibhishana  lives  in  the 
practice  of  duty,  the  study  of  the  Yeda,  and  temperance,  and  controls 
his  senses  (v.  39).  Kuvera  comes  to  visit  his  father  (v.  40),  when 
Kaikasi  takes  occasion  to  urge  her  son  Ravana  to  strive  to  become  like 
his  brother  (Kuvera)  in  splendour.  This  Ravana  promises  to  do  (v.  45). 
He  then  goes  to  the  hermitage  of  Grokarna  with  his  brothers  to  perform 
austerity  (v.  47).  In  section  10  their  austere  observances  are  described. 
After  a  thousand  years'  penance,  Ravana  thrd^s  one  of  Ws  heads  as  an 
offering  into  the  fire  -(v.  10).  He  performs  this  oblation  nine  times 
at  equal  intervals,  and  is  about  to  do  it  the  tenth  time,  when  Brahma 
appears  (v.  12  ff.),  and  offers  a  boon.  "  Ravana  asks  immortality,  but 
is  refused  (17).  He  then  asks  'that  he  may  be  .indestructible  by  all 
creatures  more  porverful  than  men,  etc. ;  -which  boon  ,as  accorde/i-by 
Brahma  (v.  22),  together  with  the  recovery  of  all  the  heads  he  had 
sacrificed,  and  the  power  of  assuming  any  shape  he  pleased.  Vibhl1- 

p 
70  This  account  varies  from  that  of  the  Mahabharata  (above,  p.  482),  according  td 

which  the  mothers  are  different,  and  Khara  (who  is  not  named  here)  is  also  a  son  of 
Vis'ravas. 


y  •  , ,       •  i 

APPENDIX.  489 

shana  (nearly  as  in  the  Mahabharata,  see  above,  p.  483)  asks  as  his 
boon  (v.  30  f.)  that  "even  amid  the"  greatest  calamities  he  may  think 
only  of  righteousness,, and  that*the  Brahman's  weapon  may  become 
manifest  to  him.  without  bein^  learned ;  and  that  in  every  stage  of 
life  hisjaims  may  b*e  righteous'"  (paramapad-gatasyapi  dharme  mama 
matir  lhavet  \  asiJcsMtancha  orahmdstram  bhagavan  pratibhdtu  me11  \ 
yd  yd  me  jdy&te  luddhir  yeshu  yeshv  dsrameshu  cha  \  sd  sd  bhavatu 
dharmishthd  tarn  tarn  dharmam  cha  pdlaye].  The  god  grants  his  re- 
quest, and  adds  the  gift  of  immortality.  When  Brahma  is  about  to  offer 
a  boon  to  Kumbhakarna,  the  gods  interpose  (v.  35  ff.),  as,  they  say,1 
he  had  eaten  seven  Apsarases  and  ten  followers  of  Indra,  besides  rishis 
and  men;  if  he  has  done  this  without  receiving  any  boon  from  Brahma, 
he  would,  if  he  should  obtain  such  a  favour,  devour  the  three  worlds  ; 
and  they  end  by  suggesting  that  under  the  guise  of  a  boon  stupefaction 
should  %e  inflicted  on  him  (v.  39).  •  Brahma  thinks  on  Sarasvatl,  who 
arrives  (v.  40),  and  by  Brahma's  command  (v.  42.  Vani  tvam  Rdlcsha- 
sendrasya  bhava  vag-devatepsitd')  enters  into  Kumbhakarna,  that  she 
may  speak  for  him.  Under  this  influence  he  asks,  when  desired  to 
choose  a  favour,  that  he  may  receive  the  boon  of  sleeping  for  many 
years,  which  is  granted  (v.  45). 72  "When,  however,  Sarasvatl  has  left 
him,  and  he  recovers  his  own  consciousness,  he  perceives  that  he  has 

71  The  commentator  explains  these  last  words  thus  :  Asikshitam  sad-gurupade^am 
vinaplty  art  hah  \  brahmastram  brahma-vidya  \  etad  varanam  asesha-brahma-vidya- 
siddM-pratibandhaka-nivrittaye  \    "  Unlearnt,  that  is,  [may  it  appear  to  me]  even 
without  the  instruction  of  a  good  teacher.     The  Brahman's  weapon  is  the  science  of 
Brahma  (or  of  the  veda).     This  choice  of  a  hoon  seeks  the  removal  of  all  obstacles 
to  the  attainment  cf  divine  knowledge."     The  commentator  also  says  that  hy  dharme 
("righteousness")  in  the  first  line  is  meant  Narayana  (Vishnu),  according  to  the 
saying,  'Eama  is  the  incarnate  righteousness' :  as  looking  to  what  follows,  the  passage 
would  otherwise  be  tautological  ("  Dharme"  Narayane  matir  bhavet  \  " Ramo  vigra- 
havan  dharmah"  ity  ukter  atra  dharnxt-padena  Narayanah\  anyatha  "sa  sa  bhavatu 
dharmishtha  "  ity  anena  paunaruktyam  syat  \  •, 

72  The  commentator  remarks  here :  Evam  iti  \  atra  shan-masad  arvak  jagarariam 
na  it*^iyamah  \  tad^adhika  'pf  nidrci  tu  bhavaty  eva  iti  vara-sva',*upam  bodhyam  \  atah 
eva  shan-masa-^svapiti  iti  purvam  Vibhishanoktya  varshany  anekani  iti  Kumbha- 
karnoktya  cha  purvoktasya  na  virodhah  \    "  In  these  words  of  Brahma  (v.  45)  there 
is  no  condition  that  Kumbhakarna  should  wake  after  six  months,  but  it  is  understood 
as  the  nature  of  the  boon  that  he  might  sleep  for;jeven  a  longer  time.     Wherefore, 
although  it  was  formerly  said  by  Vibhlshana  that  'he  sleeps  six  months,'   and 
Kumbhakarua  here  speaks  of  sleeping  many  years,  there  is  no  discrepancy  between 
the  latter  and  the  former." 


490  APPENDIX. 

been  deluded  (v.  47).  Kuvera,  on  the  demand  of  Ravana,  and  by 
his  father's  advice,  gives  up  the  bity  of  Lanka  to  Ravana  (sect.  11, 
v.  39  ff.).  Ci 

The  Uttara  Kanda,  sect.  36,  vv.  44(ff.,  contains' in  its  description  of 
the  monkey  Hanumat's  history  the  following  testimony  to  his,,  literary 
merits:  44.  Asau  punar  vyakaranam  grihishyan  sHryonmukhah  prashtu- 
mandh  kaplndrah  \  udyafr-girer  asta-girim  jaqdma  gtantham  mahad 
dhdrayan  aprameyah  \  45.  Sa-sutra-vritty-artha-padam  mahartham  sa- 
sangraharn  sidhyati  vai  kaplndfah  \  na  hy  asya  kaschit  sadriso  ''sti  sdstre 
vaisdrade  chhanda-gatau  tathaiva  \  sarvasu  vidydsu  tapo-vidhdne  praspar- 
dhate  'yam  hi  gurum  surdndm  ]  44.  "Again  the  chief  of  monkeys 
(Hanumat),'  measureless,  seeking  to  acquire  grammar,  looking  up  to 
the  sun,  bent  on  inquiry,  went  from  the  mountain  where  the  .sun  rises 
to  that  where  he  sets,  apprehending  the  mighty  collection — (45)  viz. 
the  aphorisms  (sutra),  the  commentary  (yritti),  the  vartfika'  (artha- 
pada),  the  Mahartha,  and  the  Sangraha  [of  Vyadi].  The  chief  of 
monkeys  is  perfect,  no  one  equals  him  in  the  sastras,  in  learning,  and 
in  ascertaining  the  sense  of  the  Scripture,  [or  in  moving  at  will], 
In  all  sciences,  in  the  rules  of  austerity,  he  rivals  the  preceptor  of 

the  gods." 

y*? 
The  following  is  the  commentary  on  the  above  passage  :   Udyad-girer 

udaya-girer  mahad  grantham  dharayan  arthatah  pathatas  cha  grihnan  \ 
dh&rayan  aprameyah  iti  nud-alhuva  drshah  \  surya-sdmmukhyartham 
tuvad  gamanam  \  45.  Ko  Jsau  gcanthas  tatrdha  "  aa-sutra"  iti  \  sutram 
ashtddhydyi-lahshanam  \  vrittis  tdtkdlika-sutra-vrittih  \  artha-padam 
sutrdrtha-lodhaha-padavad  vdrttikam  mahartham  mahdlhdshyam  Pa- 
tanjali-kritam  \  "  sa-sangraham  "  Vyddi-lcrita-sangrahdkhya-grantha- 
sahitam  \  "  sidhyati  vai"  siddho  lhavati  sdstrdntareshv  aplty  arthah  \ 
tad  ev aha  \  na  hy  asya  sadrisah  sdstre  kaschit  "  chhanda-gatau"  purvo- 
ttara-mlmdmsd-mukhena,  veddrtha-nirnaye  "  vaisdrade  "  vaidushye  \ 
msishya  navama-vydkarana-kartd  Hanumdn  Hi  cha  prasiddhir  iti 
Katakah  \  "I^rom  the  mountain  where,  the  sun- rises,  'heid'ing,' 

f 

apprehending  in  sense  and  in  text  '  the  great  collection.'  The 
absence  of  the  reduplicated  n  in  dhdrayan  aprameyah  is  vfidic 
(drsfta}.  He  went  to  facJ-  the  sun.  45,  In  the  words  'with  the 
sutras,'  etc.,  he  describes  what  the  book  was.  The  sutras  mean 
the  eight  books  of  Panini  (ashtddhydyi}.  The  vritti  is  the  contem- 


,  APPENDIX.  491 

poraneous  gloss  on  the  sutras  (sutra-vritti).  The  artha-pada  is  the 
vdrttika,  containing  sentences  explaining  the  sense  of  the  sutras ;  the 
Mahdrtha  is  the  Mahjibhashya » composed  by  Patanjali.  'With  the 
sanyraha'  means  with 'the  bojk^  called  Sangraha,  composed  by  Yyadi. 
'He  is, perfect'  means' he  excels  in  other  sastras  also,  as  the  author 
goes  on  to  say:  '  for-no..one  is  like  him  in  the  sastras,  in  ascertaining 
the  sense,'  in  determining  the  meaning  of*  the  Yeda  by  the  mouth  of 
the  Purva  and  Uttara  "Mimansa.  'In  skill,'  i.e.  in  learning.  "When 
specifying,  it  is  well  known  that  Hanhmat  was  the  ninth  author  of 
Grammar;  such  is  Kataka's  explanation."  '•  > 

The  other  eight  grammarians  are  mentioned  by  Colebrooke — Essays, 
ii.,  pp.  39,  48  (ed.  1837). 

NOTE  IE.— Page  261,  note  8M,  line  3  from  bottom. 
"With  tMs  compare  the  Tandya  Mahabrahmana  xiv.  11,  28,  where 
it  is  said :  Indro  Yattn  sdldvrikebhyah  prdyachhat  \  tarn  asllld  vug 
abhyavadat  \  so  'suddho  'manyata  \  sa  etat  suddhdsuddhlyam  apasyat  \ 
iena  asudhyat  \  "Indra  gave  up  the  Yatis  to  the  jackals.  An  evil 
voice  addressed  him"  [charging  him  with  the  murder  of  Brahmans, 
according  to  the  Commentator].  "He  recognized  himself  as  unclean- 
He  beheld  this  'S'uddhasuddhiya,'  [a  particular  saman  text]  and  be- 
came purified."  The  story  is  repeated  further  on  in  the  same  Brah- 
mana  xviii.  1,  9,  where  it  is  said  that  instead  of  beholding  .^the 
"S'uddhasuddhiya,"  Indra  went  t$  Prajapati,  who  gave  him  the 
"  Upahavya "  (Prajupatim  upadhdvat  \  tasmai  etam  upahavyam  prd- 
yachhat}. This  story  of  Indra  and  the  Yatis  is  alluded  to  in  Ait. 
Br.  vii.  28,  which  is  quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  437  f. 
It  is  also  referred  to  in  the  Tandya  Br.  viii.  1,  4,. and  xiii.  8,  17. 
The  latter  passage  j[s  as  follows :  Indro  Yatln  suldvrikebhyah  prdya- 
chhat |  teshdrn  trayah  udasishyanta  Prithurasmir  Brihadgirih  Rdyo- 
vdjah  |  te  'Iruvan  " /«?  nah  imdn  putrdn  lharishyaU'n  iti  \  "  ahamn 
Hi  Jydro  'bravlt,\  tdn  adhinidhdya  parichdrya  charak  vardhayams  tan 
vardhayitvd '^bravlt  "  kumdrakdh  varan  vrimdhvam"  iti  \  "  kshatram 
mdhyam"  ity  alravlt  Prithurasmih  \  tasmai  etena pdrtharasmena  kshatram 
prdyachhat  \  kshatrakdmah  etena  stuvita  \J,kshatrasya  wa  asya  prakdso 
lhavati\  " Brahmavarchasam  mahyam"  ity  abravid  Brihadgirih  \  tasmai 
etena  Idrhadgirena  Irahmavarchasam  prdyachhat  \  brahmavarchasa-kdmah 
etena  stuvlta  \  brahmavarchasi  bhavati  I  "pasun  mahyam"  ity  abravid 


492  APPENDIX. 

Rdyovdjah  \  tasmai  etena  rdyovdjlyena  pasiln  prdyachJiat  \  pasukdmah 
etena  stuvlta  \  pasumdn  lhavati  \  1 8^.  PartJiarasmam  rdjanydya  hrahma- 
sdma  Icurydt  bdrhadgiram  lrdhmandya<rdyovajlyqm,  vaisydya.  \  svena,  eva 
endms  tad-rupena  samardhnyati  stomah  \  <  "Indra  gave  up  the  Yatis  to 
the  jackals.  Three  of  them  were  le'ft,"  Prithurasmi,  Brihadgjri,  and 
Rayovaja.  They  said,  'Who  will  cherish  thege  persons,  us,  as  sons?' 
'I,'  said  Indra.  Having  placed  them  [on  his  car,  according  to  the 
comm.],  he  went  on  tending  and  rearing  them.'  When  he  had  reared 
them,  he  said,  'Youths,  choose^ boons.'  Prithurasmi  said,.  'May  regal 
power  he  mine ! '  He  accordingly  gave  him  regal  power  by  means  of 
this  'partharasma'  saman.  Let  the  man  who  desires  regal  power  offer 
praise  with  this  saman ;  and  he  obtains  distinction  like  that  of  regal 
power.  Brihadgiri  said,  '  May  Brahmanic  lustre  be  mine ! '  He  gave 
him  Brahmanic  lustre  by  means  of  this  'barhadgira'  saman.  Let  him 
who  desires  this  characteristic  offer  praise  with  this  sama1!! ;  cand  he 
obtains  it.  Rayovaja  said,  'Let  me  have  cattle! '  He  gave  him  cattle 
by  means  of  this  '  rayovajiya '  saman.  Let  him  who  desires  cattle  offer 
praise  with  this  saman;  and  he  obtains  them.  18.  Let  a  'partha- 
rasma'  be  the  'brahma-saman'  performed  for  a  Raj anya,  a  'barhadgira' 
that  for  a  Brahman,  and  a  '  rayovajiya '  for  a  Vaisya.  The  '  stoma ' 
thus  brings  prosperity  to  each  of  them  after  his  own  fashion."  The 
Yatis  are  declared  by  the  commentator  on  Tandya  Br.  viii.  1,  4,  to  be 
peroons  "who  practised  observances  contrary  to  the  Veda"  (veda- 
mruddha-niyamopetdn);  on  xiiL4r,  17,  to  be  "the  persons  so  called  who 
were  hostile  to  sacrifices "  (etat-sanjnakdn  yajna-virodJii-jandn] ;  on 
xiv.  11,  28,  to  be  "persons  hostile  to  riteS"  (Jcarma-virodhi-jandn'};  and 
on  xviii.  1,  9,  to  be  "Brahmans  who  did  nov  celebrate'the  jyotishtoma 
and  other  sacrifices,  but  lived  in  another  way  "  (jyotishtomddy  akritva 
prakdrdntarena  vartamdndm  Irdhmandn),  The  Yatis  are  also  men- 
tioned in  the  Taitt.  Sanhita  ii.  4,  9,  2,'  in  these  words  :  Tatlndm  adya- 
mdndndm  sirsJidni pardpatan  \  te  Icharjurdh  abhavan  \  "The  heads  of 
the  Yatis  who  we're  being  eaten  fell  off.  They"  (the  Yatis)  becamft^ate- 
trees."  In  the  same  Sanhita,  vi.  2,  7,  5,  they  are  again  referred  to 
thus :  Indro  Yatln  sdldyriTcelhyah  prdyachhat  \  tan  dakshinatah  utta'sa- 
vedydh  ddan  \  "Indra  gave  !'.p  the  Yatis  to  the  jackals:  they  devoured 
them  on  the  south  side  of  the  northern  altar."  On  the  former  of  these 
texts  the  commentator  remarks  as  follows :  Pdramahamsya-rupam  cha- 


APPENDIX.  493 

turthdsramam  prdptdndm  yeshdm  Yatlndm  mukhe  Srahmdtmaka-prati- 
pddako  veddnta-sabdo  ndsti  tan  Yatln  Indrah  dranyebhyah  svabhyah 
prayachhat  \  tathd'  Ifaushltakibrdhmynopanishadi  Indrasya  pratijnd 
samdmnayate  "Arunmukhdn  Yxtfn  sdldvrikebhyah  prdyachham  "  iti  \ 
patitatVdt  teshdm  tathdtvam  yuktan^  \  tathd  cha  smaryate  "  nitya-karma 
parityajya  veddnta-sravnnam  vina  \  vartamdnas  tu  sannydsl  pataty  eva 
na  samsayah"  iti  \  tedium  cha,  sdldvrikair  bhakshanam  shashtha-kdnde 
samdmnayate  ....  iti  \  veddnta-sravana-vdnchhdm  vind  nitya-karma- 
parityaktavatdm  bhavatdm  api  Idrisl  gatir  iti  darsayituiii  vedi-samipe 
bhakshanam  eva  \  "Indra  gave  up  to  the  wild  dogs  those  Yatis  in 
whose  mouth  (although  they  had  attained  the  fourth  stage  of  life 
\_dsram<i\,  that  of  Paramahamsas)  the  word  of  the  Vedanta  [or 
Upanishads]  which  sets  forth  that  the  soul  is  Brahma,  was  not  found. 
Accordingly  Indra's  declaration  that  he  'gave  up  the  Arunmukha  Yatis 
to  the  jackals  is  recorded  in  the  Kaushitaki  Brahmana  Upanishad" 
(iii.  1;  see  p.  161  of  Prof.  Co  well's  translation  in  the  Bibliotheca 
Indica).  "In  consequence  of  their  fallen  condition,  it  was  fit  that 
this  should  have  been  done :  according  to  the  text  of  the  Smriti,  '  A 
Sannyasin  who  lives  in  the  neglect  of  the  fixed  observances,  and  with- 
out hearing  the  Vedanta  [or  Upanishads],  sinks  without  doubt  into  a 
fallen  condition.'  And  the  fact  of  the  Yatis  being  eaten  by  jackals 
is  recorded  in  the  sixth  book  (of  this  Sanhita,  as  quoted  above).  The 
circumstance  of  their  being  devoured  near  the  altar  is  intended  to  sshow 
that  the  same  fate  awaits  you  gentleme'n  also,  who  live  without  desiring 
to  hear  the  Upanishads,  and  in  the  neglect  of  the  fixed  ceremonies." 
From  Prof.  C9well's  not^e  in  the  Kaushltaki  Br.  Up.  transl.,  p.  161, 
it  appears  that  Sayana,  the  commentator  on  the  Ait.  Br.  vii.  28, 
regarded  the  Yatis  there  mentioned  as  being  Asnras  in  the  disguise  of 
devotees,  and  the  Arurmaghas  .referred  to  there  as  being  Asuras  in  the 
form  of  Brahmans.  Prof.  Cowell  adds  in  a  second  note  that  the  com- 
mentator (in  the  Kaush.  Br.  Up.)  "explains  the  Arunmukhas  "  (there 
mentioned)  A  "as  those  in  whose  mouths  the  reading  of  the  Vedas  is 
not;"  and  observes  that  "they  and  the  Arurmaghas  of  the  Ait.  Br. 
,are  equally  obscure."  See  the  remainder  of  the  note,  and  Prof.  Haug's 
"note  on  the  latter  passage  in  his  translation  of  the  Ait.  Br.,  p.  483  f. 
He  thinks  the  Arurmaghas  "were  no  doubt  a  kind  of  degraded  Aryas, 
very  likely  a  tribe  of  the  ancient  Iranians,"  etc. 

'A    , 


494  APPENDIX. 

NOTE   ¥.—Puge  310,  note  19. 
v 

In  regard  to  this  note  I  have  beei  favoured  with  a  communication 

a  ,.     , 

from  Prof.  Both,  who  is  of  opinion  that  there  are  two  substantives 
sravos,  as  there  are  two  roots  sru.  There  is  no*,  only,  he  considers,  a 
root  sru,  "to  hear,"  but  a  second  siw=srr ;  and  there  are,  he  adds,  a 
number  of  passages  where  Ijhe  sense  "renown/'  traditionally  ascribed 
to  sravas,  however  wide  this  idea  is,  and  in  hoover  forced  a  manner 
it  may  be  applied,  does  not  suflj.ce.  The  forthcoming  fasciculus  of  his 
Lexicon  will,  Prof.  E,oth  informs  me,  supply  details  on  this  subject. 

Wilson,  "Westergaard,  and  Williams,  in  their  Dictionaries,  give  a 
second  sru  as  equivalent  to  sru,  "to  move,"  "to  flow,"  etc.  Prof. 
Aufrecht  is  of  opinion  that  ,in  addition  to  sru,  "  to  hear,"  there  is 
another  root  sru,  with  the  meaning  "to  quake,"  "to  shake,"  "to 
tremble."  This  root,  he  states,  occurs  only  twice  in  the  whole  Vedie 
literature  which  we  have  before  us.  The  passages  in  which  it  is  found 
are  R..V.  i.  127,  3:  Vilu  chid  yasya  samritau  sruvad  vaneva  yat  sthiram\ 
"Even  the  strong  quakes  at  his  attack,  "and  even  the  firm  shakes  like 
trees;"  and  Pt.Y.  i.  39,  6:  A  vo  ydmdya  prithivl  chid  asrot  |  "Even 
the  earth  trembled  before  your  rush."  From  this  root  is  derived 
fn>«fl,»,"lame."  Prof.  Aufrecht  does  not  think  that  in  any  Yedical 
passage  the  root  gru  has  the  meaning  of  sravati,  "to  flow."  In  his 
note  on  the  former  of  these  two  passages,  Sayana  explains  sruvat  by 
gacfihet,  siryeta,  i.e.  "will  move,"  "will  crumble." 


NOTE   G.—Page  412,  line  19. 

In  her  lamentation  for  Kavana  (Ram.,  Bombay  ed  vi.  113)  his 
queen  Mandodari,  among  other  attributes  which  she  ascribes  to  him, 
speaks  of  him  (v.  49)  as  jetaram  lokapalanam  ksheptaram  S'anJcarasya 
cha,  "conqueror  of  the  guardians  of  tne  world,  and  caster  down  (or, 
contemner)  of  S'ankara."  S'ankara  could  not  'therefore  have  been 
looked  on  by  the'  writer  of  this  as  the  Sunfeme  Deity.  Front  Hhe 
story  of  Nandlsvara,  quoted  in  the  Appendix,  above,  p.  46't  f.,  it  will 
have  been  seen,  however,  that  Eavana  was  really  no  match  for  S'ankara. 


NOTE   H.—  Page  418,  note  196. 
The.  following  is  a  summary  of  the  story  of  Indra  and  Indrajit,  as 


I 


*          APPENDIX.  495 

given  in  the  twenty-seventh  and  following  sections  of  the  Yuddha 
Kanda.  Eavana  in  the  course  of^his  expeditions  goes  to  Indra-loka. 
Indra  tells  the  gods 'to  get  ready  for  battle;  but,  being  afraid,  resorts 
to  Yishnu  (sect.  27/6),  whom  h»,  glorifies  as  the  Creator  and  the  Being 
into  whom  all  things  are  absorbed  at  the  end  of  the  world,  and  asks 

r  * 

his  advice  (v.  13).  Yishnu  reassures  him;  but  says  that  he  could  not 
interfere  witho'ut  killing  Havana, — which  he  is  unable  to  do  on  ac- 
count of  the  boon  conceded  to  the  Eakshasa  chief  by  Brahma  (v.  18); 
but  he  would  slay  him  at  the  proper  time  (v.  20).  Meanwhile  he  tells 
Indra  to  fight  with  Havana  (v.  21).  A  battle  takes  place  between  'the 
gods  and  Eakshasas  (v.  26  ff.).  The  eighth  Vasu  Savitra  comes  on 
the  field  (w.  34  and  43),  fights  with  Sumali,  one  of  the  Eakshasas, 
and  grandfather  of  Eavana,  who  had  routed  the  gods,  kills  him, 
reducing  to  ashes  his  bones  and  all  the  rest  of  him  (v.  50),  and  puts 
the  Eai'shasas  to  flight.  They 'are,  however,  rallied  by  Indrajit  (sect. 

28,  1  ff.),  and  the  gods  repulsed.      Indra's  so*n,  Jayanta,  enters  the 
fray  (vv.  6  fl7.).     The  gods  are  furiously  assailed  by  Indrajit.     Both 
sides,  in  the  confusion,  smite  their  own  warriors  (vv.  17  f.).     Jayanta 
is  carried  off  by  his  grandfather,  his  mother  S'achi's  father,  Puloman, 
the  Daitya,  who  enters  with  him  into  the  sea  (vv.  19  f.).     Thegods, 
thinking  that  Jayanta  had  been  killed,  take  to  flight  (v.  21),  and  are 
pursued  by  Indrajit.    Indra  himself  now  comes  upon  the  scene  (v.  23), 
and  is  opposed  by  Eavana  (vv.  29  ff.),  whom  he  eventually  captures  (s'ect. 

29,  v.  18  f.).     Heghanada  (son  of  Er.vana),  afterwards  called  Indrajit, 
becoming  invisible  by  his  magical  power,  which  he  had  obtained  from 

fi 

Mahadeva,  binds  Indra  and  carries  him  off  (v.  27).     The  gods,  headed 

~n  I 

by  Brahma,  follow  them  to  Lanka  (sect.  30).  Brahma  praises  Megha- 
nada's  valour,  and  declares  that  he  shall  be  called  Indrajit  ("  the  con- 
queror of  Indra,"  v.  5).  Brabma  then  asks  that  Indra  shall  be  re- 
leased (v.  7).  Indrajit,  as  a  condition,  .requires  the  boon  of  immortality 
(v.  8).  This  Brahma  refuses  (v.  9).73  Indrajit  then  says,  v.  11 :  S'ruya- 
tdm"'fn  bhavpt  s'tddhih  S  ptakratu-vimokshane  \  12.  Mameshtarn  nityaso 
Tiavyair  mantraik  sampujya  Pdvakam  \  sangrdmam  avatartum  cha  satru- 
nirjaya-kdnkshinah  \  13.  Asva-yukto  ratho  mahyam  uttishthet  tu  Vibhd- 
vasoh  |  tat-sthasydmaratd  sydd  me  esha  mi'  nischito  varah  \  14.  Tasmin 
yady  asamdpte  cha  japyahome  Vibhdvasctu  \  yudhyeyam  deva-sangrdme 
73  See  similar  cases  above,  pp.  223  and  482. 


496  APPENDIX. 

tada  me  sydd  vindsanam  \  15.  Sarvo  hi  tapasd  deva  vrinoty  amaratdm 
pumdn  |  vikramena  may  a  tv  etad  (amaratvam  pravartitam  \  16.  Evam 
astv  iti  tarn  chdha  vdltyam  devah  Praj&patih  \  mtikias  chendrajitd  S'akro 
galas  cha  tridivam  surah  \  11.  "Lisfsn:  or  let  ine  attain  perfection 
by  releasing  S'atakratu  (Indra).  12.  My  wisn  is, — desirous  as  I  am 

C-  I 

of  conquering  my  enemies, — to  enter  into  battle 'after  constantly  wor- 
shipping Agni  with  texts 'and  oblations:  (13}  and  tft'e  boon  I  have 
fixed  to  ask  for  is  that  (whenever  I  shall  do  so)  a  chariot  with  horses 
may  rise  up  for  me  out  of  the  *Fire,  and  that  while  I  stand  in  it  I  may 
i-emain  immortal:  (14)  and  if  I  fight  in  it  against  the  gods  before  I 
have  finished  my  prayers  and  oblations  to  Agni,  let  me  perish.  15. 
For,  0  god,  every  man  desires  by  austerities  to  attain  immortality. 
And  by  my  valour  I  have  sought  for  this  immortality.  16.  'So  be  it,' 
said  Brahma.  Then  Indra  was  released  by  Indrajit,  and  the  gods  went 
to  heaven."  Brahma  then  tells  Indra  (vv.  17-48),  who  was  Standing 
humiliated  and  thoughtful,  that  he  had  incurred  this  misfortune  be- 
cause he  had  corrupted  Ahalya  (v.  46),  the  first  woman,  whom  Brahma 
had  made  and  had  given  to  the  sage  Gautama  (v.  27),  as  a  reward  for 
his  austere  virtue.  For  this  he  had  been  cursed  by  the  sage  (vv.  31  ff.). 
Ahalya,  too,  was  reprehended  by  the  sage,  expelled  from  his  hermitage, 
and  condemned  to  lose  her  prerogative  of  being  the  only  beautiful 
woman  in  the  world  (vv.  36  ff.).  She  excuses  herself  by  saying  that 
Ind-ra  had  assumed  the  form  of  her  husband,  and  thus  deceived  her, 
and  that  she  had  not  yielded  tec  illicit  passion  (vv.  40  f.).  She  is  then 
assured  that  she  would  be  restored  to  purity  by  the  vision  of  Vishnu 

incarnate  in  Rama,  and  received  again  by  her  husband  (vv.  41  ff.);  and 

( (  f  (, 

Indra  himself  was  enjoined  to  offer  a  Vaishrfava  sacrifice  by  which  he 
would  be  purified  (v.  47  f.).74  (Compare  the  forty-eighth  and  forty- 

f 

74  The  commentator  remarks  on  verse  49,  4here  the  performance  of  this  sacrifice 
is  mentioned :  Devanam  na  yajneshv  &dhikarah  iti  Jaiminj/-ukiam  tu  pramadad  iti 
nirupitam  prak  \  "  The  saying  of  Jaimini  that  the  gods  have  not  the  prerogative  of 
sacrificing  has  been  before  determined  to  be  founded  pfi  an  inadvertence."  Tkt'end 
of  the  remarks  on  Kamayauai.  29,  7,  quoted  above,  p.  131,  note  l*ol,  may  be  here 
referred  to  by  the  commentator.  Besides  the  text  cited  in  p.  262,  note,  mention  is  ejse- 
where  found  of  sacrifice  being  offered  by  Indra.  See  the  story  of  Nahusha  adduced 
in  the  first  volume  of  this  work^pp.  307  ff.,  where  such  a  sacrifice  is  referred  f.o 
(p.  310).  The  lines  of  the  Udyoga-parvan  (414  f.)  in  which  this  is  mentioned  are  as 
follows:  Mam  eva  yajatam  S'akrah  pavayishyami  vajrinam  \punyena  hayatnedhena 
mam  ishtva  Pakas'asanah  \  punar  eshyati  fevanam  indratvam  akutobhayah  \  Vishnu 


I  /•' 


APPENDIX,  497 

ninth  sections  of  the  first  book  of  the  Kamayana,  Bombay  ed.,  the 
note  in  p.  49,  above ;  and  a  similar,  purification  of  Indra  for  another 
sin,  above,  p.  262,  note,  and  the»beginning  of  Note  E.,  p.  491.)  I 

quote  the  verses  in,,wiich  Brahma  h£re  describes  the  creation  of  the 

•  , 

first  woman  Ahalya;      „  * 

Sect.  30,  19  ff. — Amarendra  mayd  luddhyd  prajdh  srisJitds  tathd 
prabho  |  eka-varndh  samdbhdshdh  eka-ruptisj.,  cha  sarvasah  \  20.  Tdsdm 
ndsti  visesho  hi  dar§ano  lakshane  "*pi  vd  \  tato  'ham  elidgra-mands  tuh 
prajdh  samachintayam  \  21.  So  'hani  tds-im  visesJidrtJiam  striyam  efcdm 
vinirmame  \  yad  yat  prajdndm  pratyangam  visishtam  tat  tad  uddJiritam  |  ( 
22.  Tato  mayd  rupa-gy,nair  Ahalyd  strl  vinirmitd  \  Halafii  ndmeha 
vairupyam  halyam  tat-pralJiavam  bhavet  \  23.  Yasydh  na  vidyate  halyam 
tendJialyeti  visruta  \  Ahalyety  eva  cha  mayd.  tasydh  ndma  praltiptitam  \ 
19.  "0  chief  of  immortals  (Indra),  all  creatures  were  by  my  under- 
standing farmed  by  me  of  one  caste,  of  the  same  speech,  and  of  one 
form  in  every  respect.  20.  There  was  no  distinction  of  them  in  ap- 
pearance or  characteristic  (sexual)  mark.  I  then,  with  intent  mind, 
reflected  on  these  creatures.  21.  In  order  to  distinguish  them,  I  formed 
one  woman.  Whatever  there  was  most  distinguished  (excellent)  in 
the  several  members  of  [different]  creatures  was  taken  [to  compose 
her].  22.  A  woman  faultless  (ahalyd}  in  form  was  then  fashwned 
by  me.  Hala  means  ugliness,  and  halya  that  which  springs  from 
ugliness.  23.  She  who  has  nothing  sprung  from  ugliness  (halya'}  is 
known  as  'Ahalya.'  And  I  have  made  her  known  by  this  name." 


NOTE   I.— Pa  ft  427,  line  7  from  the  foot. 

Professors  Aufrecht  anci  Miiller  have  been  good  enough  to  furnish 
me  with  the  text  of  this  Durga-stava,  or  Eatri-sukta,  which,  in  the 
Sanhita  MSS.  of  th<*  R.V.,  follows  a  hymn  addressed  to  Night  (the 
127th  of  the  Tenth  Mandala=Ashtaka>viii.  7,  14).  I  will  first  give 
the  text,  with  a  translation,  of  the  genuine  hymn  to  Night  (R.V.  x. 
127)7^id  then  quote  the  IVirisishta : 

R.V.  x.  127. — 1.  Ratrl  vi  akhyad  dyati  purutrd  devl  ahhabhih  \  vis- 

vuh  adhi  sriyo  'dhita  \  2.  A  uru  aprdh  amartyd  nivato  devl  udvatah  \ 

it 

speaks :  "  Let  S'akra  (Indra)  worship  me :  I  will  purify  the  thunderer.  Having 
sacrificed  to  me  with  a  pure  horse  sacrifice,  he  shall  again  obtain  the  headship  of  the 
gods,  and  he  delivered  from  fear." 

VOL.  IT.  32 


498  APPENDIX. 

jyotishd  Iddhate  tamah  \  3.  Nir  u  svasdram  askrita  ushasam  devl  dyati  \ 
apa  id  u  hdsate  tamah  \  4.  Sd  no  ad</a  yasydh  vayam  ni  te  ydmann  aviksh- 
mahi  |  vrikshe  na  vasatim  vayah^  5.  'j^'  grdmdso  avjikshata  ni  padvanto  ni 
pakshinah  \  ni  syendsas  chid  arthinah  \  J>,  Yavaya  V]  iky  am  vrikam  yavaya 
stenam  urmye  \  atha  nah  sutard  lhava  \  7.  Upa  md  pepisat  tainah  krish- 
nam  vyaktam  asthita  \  ushah  rind  iva  ydtaya<  \  ,8.  Ufa  te  gdh  iva  d 
akaram  vrinlshva  duhitar  dlvah  \  rdtri  stomam  najigyusle  \  "The  divine 
Night  arriving,  hath  shone  in  many  places  witli  her  eyes;  she  has 
assumed  all  her  splendours.  2.  The  immortal  goddess  has  widely  filled 
t  the  lower  and  the  upper  regions :  by  light  she  destroys  the  darkness. 
3.  Arriving,  the  goddess  has  driven  away  her  sister  the  Twilight :  the 
darkness  departs.  4.  Be  to-day  [favourable]  to  us  who  have  gone  to 
rest  at  thy  coming,  as  birds  to  their  nests  in  a  tree.  5.  Men,  cattle, 
and  even  suppliant  hawks,  have  gone  to  rest.  6.  Drive  away,  0 
Night,  the  she-wolf  and  the  wolf:  drive  away  the  thief;  and  carry 
us  safely  across  [thyself].  7.  Darkness  adorned  [with  stars],  black, 
and  yet  illuminated,  has  approached  me :  do  thou,  TJshas,  drive  it 
away  like  one  who  is  bound  [to  do  so].  8.  I  have  brought  for  thee 
a  hymn,  as  it  were  an  offering  of  cows,  like  [an  encomium]  for  a 
conqueror.  Receive  it,  0  Night,  daughter  of  the  Day." 

1.  (=Nir.  iv.  29  ;  A.Y.  19,  47,  1 ;  and  Vaj.  S.  34,  32)— A  rdtri pdr- 
thivam  rajah  pitur  aprdyi  dhdmabhih  \  dtiah  saddmsi  Irihati  vi  tishthase 
d^tvesham  vartate  tamah  \  2.  (A.Y.  19,  47,  3)  Ye  te  rdtri  nrichakshaso 
yuktdso 75  navatir  nava  \  asltih ,  santv  ashtd  uto  te  sapta  saptatih  \  3. 
Rdtrim  prapadye  jananlm  sarva-lhuta-nivesarilm™  \  bhadrdm  Ihaga- 
vatirn  TirisJind-m  visvasya  jagato  m'sdm  \  4.  Samvesamm  samyamanim 
graha-nahshatra-mdliriim  \  prapanno  'ham  zivdm  rdtrlm  lhadre  pdram 
asimahi  lhadre  pdram  aslmahi  cm  namah  \  5.  Stoshydmi  prayato 
devim  saranydm  lahvricha-priydm  \  sahasra-sam^itdm  Durgdm  Jdta- 
vedase  sunavdma  somam 77  |  6.  S'dnty-artham  dvijdtlndm  rishilhih 
semapdsritdh  (samupdiritd  ?)  |  rig-vede  tvam  samutpannd  'rdtlyato  nida- 
hdti  vedah  \  7.  Ye  tvdm+devi  prapadyante^rdhman&h  havya-vob^riim  \ 

75  For  yuhtasah,  the  A.  V.  reads  drashtaraH,  "seers." 

76  This,  Professor  Aufrecht  remarks,  is  imitated  from  E.V.  i.  35,  1 :  Itatrmjai/ato 
nives&rilm. 

77  The  final  padas  of  this  and  the  three  following  verses  are,  as  Prof.  Aufrecht 
observes,  borrowed  from  K.V.  i.  99. 


APPENDIX.  499 

> 

avidydh  bahuvidydh  vd  sa  nahparshad  ati  durgdni  visvd  \  8.  Agni-varndm 
subhdm  saumydm  kirtayishyanti  ye  dtijdh  \  tan  tdrayati  durgani  naveva 
sindhum  duritd  'ty  Agnih  \  9.  Dyfyeshu  vishame  ghore  sangrdme  ripu- 
sankate  \  agni-chora*nipdteshu  .dushta-graha-nivdrane  \  10.  Durgeshu 
vishameshu  tvdm  sangrtimeshu  vaneshu  cha  \  mohayitvd  prapadyante 
teshdm  me  abhayam  kvtru  teshttm,  me  tibhayam  kuru  om  namah,  \  11.  Resi- 
nlm  sarva-bhutrwdm  panchamlti  cha,  ndma  ch'A  \  sd  mdm  samdh  nisdh  devl 
sarvatah  parirakshatv  safrvatah  parirakshatu  om  namah  \  [v.  12  is  the 
same  as  the  verse  quoted  by  "Weber  *in  the  text,  beginning  turn 
agni-varndm,  etc.]  |  13.  Durgd  durgeshu  sthdneshu  sam  no  devlr  abM^h-, 
taye  \  yah  imam  Durga-stavam  punyam  rdtrau  rdtrau  sadd  pathet  \  rdtrih 
kusikah  saubharo  rdtri-stavo  gdyatrl  \  rdtri-suktam  japed  nityam  tat- 
kdlam  upapadyate  \  • 

I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Aufrecht  for  assistance  in  correcting  the 
corrupt  text  and  in  explaining  parts  of  this  composition. 

1.  u  0  Mght,  the  terrestrial  atmosphere  was  filled  with  thy  father's 
might.  Thou,  the  mighty  one,  pervadest  the  celestial  mansions,  and 
awful  darkness  returns.  2.  Night,  may  the  man-beholders  which  are 
united  with  thee78  be  99,  88,  or  77.  3.  I  attain  to  Night,  the  mother, 
who  brings  rest  to  all  creatures,  kind,  divine,  dark,  the  night  of  the 
whole  world.  4.  I  have  attained  the  auspicious  Night,  who  ctuses 
men  to  rest,  who  composes  [them],  who  is  invested  with  a .  garland  of 
planets  and  stars.  May  we  reach  the  other  side  in  safety !  may  we 
reach  the  other  side  in  safety !  5.  Intent,  I  will  praise  the  divine 
Durga,  who  affords  a  refuge,  who  is  beloved  by  the  Bahvrichas  (priests 
of  the  Eig-veda  ceremonial),  uho-is  equal  to  a  thousand.  Let  us  pour 
forth  Boma  to  Jatavedas  .(Fire).  6.  For  the  tranquillization  of  the 
twice-born,  thou  art  resorted  to  by  rishis,  and  hast  thy  origin  in  the 
Big-veda.  May  [Agni]  burn  up  the  wealth  of  him  who  seeks  to  hurt 
us!  7.  The  Brahmans,  learned  or  ignorant,  who  resort,  0  goddess, 
to  thee,  the  carrier  -of  oblations,— may  he  transport  us  over  all 
diffi^tlties.  8.  Agni  transports  over  all  evils  [though]  hard  to  be 
traversed, — as  in  a  boat  across  the  ocean, — those  twice-born  men  who 
shall  celebrate  the  fire-coloured,  auspicious,  beautiful  goddess.  9.  In 
difficulties,  in  dire  perplexity,  in  battle,  in  trouble  from  enemies,  in 

78  Or,  according  to  the  reading  of  the  A.  V.,  "  May  thy  man-beholders,  lookers 
be,"  etc. 

^  A     i  ' 


500  APPENDIX. 

visitations  of  fire,  and  thieves,  for  the  prevention  of  inauspicious 
planets,  (10)  in  difficulties,  perplexities,  battles,  and  forests,  men, 
bewildered,  resort  to  thee.  Give  ui^.  security  frqm  these  things,  give 
us  security  from  these  things!  H-c,[I  praise]  <her  the  long-haired, 
and  whose  name  among  all  creatures  is  PanchamT.  May  this,,  goddess 
every  night  preserve  me  in  everyway.1  (12.  The  same  as  the  verse 
already  quoted  in  the  texi,  p.  427,  line  26.)  13.  Hay  the  divine 
Durga  be  propitious  for  our  good  in  difficulties^  He  who  always  every 
night  reads  this  holy  Durg§<-stava, — (the  night,  Kusika,  Saubhara, 
•  the  ratri-stava,  gayatri), — he  who  continually  mutters  the  ratri-sukta, 
arrives  at  that  time." 

It  will  be  seen  that  the  sense  of  'some  parts  of  this  production  is  not 
very  clear,  but  to  ascertain  it  is  of  little  consequence. 


NOTE   J.—Page  429,  lines  13  /. 

These  same  tongues  of  fire  are  also  mentioned  in  a  hymn  to  Agni,  in 
the  Markandeya  Purana,  sect.  99,  vv.  52  ff. :  Yd  Jihvd  lhavatah  Kail 
kdla-nishthd-karl  pralho  \  lhaydn  nah  pdhi  pdpebhyah  aihiJcuchcha  mahd- 
bhaydt  \  53.  Kardll  ndma  yd  jihvd  mahd-pralaya-lcdranam  [  tayd  net 
pu.fi i  ityddi  |  54.  Manojavu  cha  yd  jihvd  laghimd  guna-lakshand  \  tayd 
ityddi  \  55.  Karoti  Jcdmam  Ihutelhyo  yd  te  jihvd  Sulohitd  \  tayd  ityddi  \ 

56.  Sudhumra-varnd  yd  jihvd  prdnindm  roga-ddyiJcd  \   tayd  ityddi  \ 

57.  Sphulinginl  cha  yd  jihvd,  yaiah  [yd  te?~\  sakala-pudgald   \    tayd 
ityddi  |   58.   Yd   te    Visvd  sadd  jihvd  prdnindm  iarma-ddyinl  \   tayd 
ityddi  |  52.  "By  thy  tongue  Kali,  the  'final  destroyer  [of  the  world], 
preserve  us  from  sins  and  from  great  prfeent  alarm.      53.  By  thy 
tongue  Karall,  the  cause  of  the  great  mundane  dissolution,  preserve 
us,  etc.     54.  By  thy  tongue  Manojava,  which  isrdistinguished  by  the 
quality  of  lightness,  preserve  us,  etc.     55.  By  thy  tongue  Sulohita, 
which  accomplishes  the  desires  of  creatures,  preserve  us,  etc.     56.  By 
thy  tongue  Sudiiumravarna,  which  inflicts,  diseases -on  living  <btfings, 
preserve  us,  etc.     57.  By  thy  tongue  Sphulinginl,  the  loveliest  of  all, 
preserve  us,  etc.     58.  By  thy  tongue  Visva,  which  always  bestows 
blessings  on  living  beings,  Reserve  us,  etc." 

In  the  course  of  this  hymn  to  Agni  he  is  said  (v.  41)  to  have  been 
formed  eightfold :  Tvdm  ashtadhd  kalpayitvd  yajnam  ddyam  akalpayan  \ 


APPENDIX.  501 

"Having  formed  thee  in  eight  ways,  they  performed  the  earliest 
sacrifice."  This  seems  to  refer  Jo  the  legend  from  the  Brahmanas 
given  in  pp.  339-34,7.  •  Again,  we  are  Reminded  of  some  characteristics 
which  are  ascribed, to  Uudra  in*6he  S'atarudriya  vv.  2  and  11  (above, 
pp.  322  *f.)  by  the  expressions  whioh  are  applied  to  Agni  in  the  seven- 
tieth verse  of  this  hymn :  Yat  te  Vahne  siiyim  rupam  ye  cha  te  sapta 
hetayah  \  taih  pahi  tndk>  stuto  deva  pita  putram  ivatmajam  \  "  When 
thou  art  lauded,  Agni,  preserve  us  by  .thine  auspicious  form,  and  by 
thy  seven  shafts,  as  a  father  preserves  his  own  son."  •  _  . 

In  v.  63  Agni  is  said  to  have  "stretched  out  the  whole  universe, 
and,  though  one,  to  exist  in  manifold  shapes"  (tvaya  tatam  visvam  idaih 
charaeharam  Hutasanaiko  lahudhd  tvam  afaa).  • 


502 


ADDITIONAL  NOTE&  AtfD   CORRECTIONS. 


i.  Page  6,  note  13. 

See  further  E.V.  ii.  33,  1 ;  and  Dr.  Bollensen's  remarks  on  the  word 
•sandris  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  vol.  xxii.,  p.  588. 

ii.  Page  9,  line  11. 
See  Tandya  Mahabrahmana,  viii.  2,  1  f. 

iii.  Page  19,  line  3  from  the  top  and  line  11  from  the  foot. 

I  learn  by  a  communication,  dated  some  months  ago,  from  Professor 
Aufrecht,  that  anvdsaye  is  not  a  substantive,  as  J  had  understood  it,  but 
the  third  person  singular  present,  from  the  root  sz+anw+o.  He  would 
tra&.late  the  whole  verse  thus:  "With  which  body  has  Skambha 
entered  the  past,  and  which  body  of  his  rests  over  the  future  ?  When 
he  divided  his  one  body  into  a  thousand  bodies,  with  which  of  them 
did  he  enter  there  ?"  And  he  thinks  that  the  second  half  of  verse  8 
has  exactly  the  same  sense.  S'aye  is,  he  adds,  a  very  common  Vedic 
form  for  sete.  See  also  the  fasciculus  ofJBohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon 
(recently  received),  s.v.  si,  where  also  saye  is  stated  td  be  the  3rd  pers. 
.sing. ;  and  the  scholiast  on  Panini  vii.  1,  41,  is  referred  to  in  proof. 
In  the  same  work  the  root  sl-\-anu-\-d  is  explained  as,  in  this  passage, 
signifying  "to  stretch  over." 

iv.  Page  28,  line  8. 

I  find  from  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon,  s.v.  satalfhu,  that  the 
words  here  referred  to  occur  in  fche  Taittiriya  Aranyaka  x.  1,  8.'    I 
'quote  in  full  the  verse  in/t which  they  occur,  as  well  as  that  which 
precedes  it :  Asvakrdnte  rathaJcrdnte  Vishnukrante  vasundhard  \  sirasd 
dhardyishydmi  rakshasva  mdm  pade  pade  \  bhumir  dhenur  dharanl  loka- 
dhdram  \  uddhritd  'si  vardhena  krtshnena  saialdhuna  \ 
1  f    r 

(      f, 


ADDITIONAL  NOTES  AND  CORRECTIONS.  503 

.  v.^Page  28,  line  14. 

See  Tandya  Brahmana,  xx.  14,  £  ff.;  the  commencement  of  which 
corresponds  with  the^text  from  the  Pauchavimsa  Brahmana,  quoted  in 
the  fifth  volume  of  this  .work,  p/392. 

*          •> 
>    ,  vi.  Page  29,  line  9. 

See  Tandya  Br.  iv.  1>  4. 
• 

vii.  Page  39,  li-,ie  17. 
For  "vi.  2,  42,"  read  "vi.  2,  4,  2."  ',    . 

viii.  Page  39,  Zw*  23. 

A  ham  durgud  ahartd.  Compare  R.V.  ?»  61,  7,  and  viii.  66,>  10,  in 
pp.  67  and  91,  and  the  quotation  from  Say  ana's  commentary  given  in 
p.  92  f.^  above. 

ix.  Page  44,  line  22. 
For  "5,  32,"  read  "5,  34." 

x.  Page  45,  line  5, 

See  Tandya  Br.  viii.  2,  10. 

-»' 

xi.  Page  56,  line  11. 

Compare  Tandya  Br.  vii.  4,  2 ;  where  it  is  told  that  the  gods  failed 
to  gain  heaven  by  either  the  Gayatri,  the  Trishtubh,  the  JagatI,  or  the 
Anushtubh  metres,  but  gained  it  by  the  Brihati. 

•» 
>     xii.  Paae  58,,  last  line  of  the  text. 

Compare  Tandya  Br.  vii.  5,  11 ;  6,  5 ;  xii.  5,  23;  9,  21;  13,  27  f. 

»        xiii.  Page  61,  line  5. 

See  the  discussion  among  the  gods  ab,out  a  formula  in  Tandya  Br. 
vii.  8,  1  f. 

*'•»          ,      '  x%.  Page  67,  line  IB. 

,,0n  the  word  matn,  "  measurer ?"  Bb'htlingk  and  Eoth  have  the 
f9llowing  explanation :  "  Sayana  brings  under  this  head  the  verse 
1\  61,  7,  making  the  word  equivalent  to  \he  world-creating  (-sustain- 
ing) sacrifice.'  Benfey  translates  'carpenter.'  But  Vritra's  mother 
may  be  here  spoken  of."  . 

'^  •       * 

N  ) 


504  ADDITIONAL  NOTES  AND  CORRECTIONS. 

xv.  Page  78,  line  11  from  the  foot. 

See  also  Tandya  Br.,  xx.  15,  6,  fi  t 

i 
xvi.  Page  80,  line  5:  from  the  foot. 

Vishnu  is  also  mentioned  in  R.V.  v.  49,  3 :  Indro  Yishnur'  Varuno 
Mitro  Agnir  alidni  bhadrd  janayanta  dasmdh  \  l 

xvii.  Page  81,  ?e'we  27.'       • 

In  R.V.  viii.  12,  8,  Indra  is  said  to  have  eaten  a  thousand  buffaloes 
'and  to  have  in  consequence  gained  in  vigour  (yadi  pravriddha  satpate 
sahasram  mahishdn  aghah  \  dd  it  te  indriyam  mahi  pra  vavridhe). 

_  xviii   Page  85,  line  13. 

"The  Asvins,"  etc.  Read  "Ye,  Asvins,  have  come  by  a  path 
which  yields  enjoyment."  '  . 

xix.  Page  88,  lines  16,  22  and  28. 

For  "yanna"  read  "yon  nah:  and  in  line  22,  for  "tellest  not" 
read  "tellest  to  us." 

The  passage  of  the  Taitt.  San.  referred  to  in  p.  88,  line  28,  viz.  ii.  5, 
5,  2/n.  585  of  Bibl.  Ind.,  vol.  ii.),  gives  the  following  expknation  of 
the  words  Vishnave  S'ipivishtaya :  Yajno  vai  Vishnuh  \  pasavah  sipih  \ 
yajnah  eva  pasushu  pratishtJiati  \  "  '  Vishnu '  means  sacrifice,  and 
'  8'ipi '  means  victims ;  for  sacrifice  depends  upon  victims."  See  also 
the  Tandya  Brahmana  ix.  7,  9  tf.  R.V.  vii.  100,  6,  is  translated  by 
Prof.  Roth  in  his  Illustrations  of  the  Mrukta,  p.  59.  I  am  indebted 
to  Prof.  Aufrecht  for  the  following  remarks  on  "  S'ipivlshta : "  "  This 
attribute  of  Vishnu  occurs  only  in  R.V.  vii.  99,  6  (a  verse  which 
ought  to  have  stood  only  at  the  end  of  hymn  100,  as  hymn  99  is 
devoted  to  the  celebration  of  Indra  and'  Vishnu),  and  in  the  only  im- 
portant verses  vii.  100,  5  and  6:  The  A.V.  does  not  know  the  word, 
and  in  the  other  ^anhitas  and  Brahmanas  it  has  been,  as  in  other  cases, 
adopted  from  the  K.V.  It  is  perfectly  clear  that  something  oppro- 
brious was  expressed  by  the  epithfet,  for  vii.  100,  6,  means :  '  Wky 
should  any  one,  0  Vishnu,  h^ve  found  a  subject  for  reproof  when  thon 
didst  say,  "I  am  S'ipivishta "  ?  Do  not  conceal  even  that  shape  of 
thine  from  us,  as  thou  wearest  another  form  in  public.'  Now  Aupa- 
manyava  says  clearly  that  '  S'ivipishta '  is  '  kutsitarthiya '  (has  a  bad, 

:•'    £' 


ADDITIONAL  NOTES  AND  CORRECTIONS.  505 

or  contemptuous,  sense).79  The  commentator  on  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita 
ii.  2,  12,  0  (vol.  ii.,  p.  390)  says  that  it  is  used  for  atyanta-rogin.™ 

>  •  j 

'9  The  complete  words* of  Aupamanyava'*are  as  follows:  S'ipivishto  Vishnur  iti 

Vishnor  dve  namarii  bhavatah  \  kutsit-tirthiyam  purvam  ity  Aupumanyavah  \  "  Aupa- 
manya  lays  that  there  are'  two  names  of  Vishnu,  S'ipivishta  and  Vishnu :  of  which 
the  former  has  a  bad  sense."  '  J 

80  I  quote  the  commentator's  remarks  on  the  verse  (vii.  100,  6,  of  the  R.V.)  at 
length:  He  "  yishno"  tiam  "yad"  yasmat  karanat  "S'ipivishto  asmi"  iti  pra- 
karshena  " vav akshe "  'punah  punar  v akshi  tasmat  "te"  tava  manasi  "  kim  it  pari- 
chakshyam  bhut"  kim  idam gar hantyam  abhut  \  na  etad  garhanlyam  vritha  eva  tava 
lajja  ity  abhiprayah  \  yadyapy  etan  nama  lake  atyantaroginy  \  udghatita-guhyatva- 
vimudhaih  prayujyate  "S'ipivishto  'yam"  iti  tathapy  avayavarthasya  brahmnneha 
vyakhyatatvad  nasty  atra  tava  lajja-karanam  \  tasmad  "etad  varpo "  varishtham  nama 
"asmad  ma  apaguhah"  asmakam  agre  gudham  ma  kuru\  "yad"  yasmat  tvam 
guhanaya  eva  samithe  yuddhe  kavacha-sirshanyabhyaih  gudho  " anyarupo  fyabhutha" 
babhuvithx  \  tad  anyatha  yathatatha  va  bhavatu  tathapy  asmad-vriddhau  (quere 
bitddhau  ?)  prasastam  idam  ma  gopaya  ity  arthah  \  "  0  Vishnu,  since  thou  repeatedly 
sayest  J  aai  S'ipivishta,  how,  then,  is  this,  in  thy  mind,  matter  of  reproach  ?  It  is 
not  matter  of  reproach ;  thou  art  needlessly  ashamed :  such  is  the  purport.  Although 
this  word  is  in  common  language  applied  to  diseased  persons,  to  those  whose  naked- 
ness is  uncovered,  and  to  fools,  by  those  who  say  '  so  and  so  is  S'ipivishta,'  yet  as  the 
sense  of  its  component  parts  is  expounded  in  this  Brahmana  (ii.  5,  5,  2,  see  above), 
thou  hast  no  occasion  for  shame.  Do  not  therefore  conceal  from  us  thy  most  excellent 
name  (so  the  commentator  understands  varpas}.  Inasmuch  as  in  the  battle  thou  hast 
for  the  sake  of  concealment  been  covered  by  a  coat  of  mail  and  a  helmet, — whether 
the  fact  be  so  or  otherwise,  do  not  conceal  that  which  in  our  estimation+3eserves 
praise." 

The  word  "S'ipivishta"  also  occurs  in  the  S'atarudriya  (Vajas.  Sanhital6,  29);andis 
thus  commented  on  by  Mahldhara  on  the  verse :  S'ipivishtaya  Vishnurupaya\ "  Vishnuh 
S'ipivishtah"  iti  sruteh  \  yadva  sipishu  pasushu  vishtah  pravishtah  \  llpasavo  vai 
sipir"  iti  sruteh  \  sarva-pranishv  antaryamitaya  sthitah  ity  arthah  \  yadva  "yajno 
vai  sipih"  \  yajne  ' dhidevatatvena pravishtah  \  sipir  adityo  va  mandaladhishthata  ity 
arthah  \  tasmai  namah  \  " sipayo'1  tra  rasmayah  uchyante  tair  avishto  bhavati"  iti 
Yaskokteh  (NiruUa,  5,  8).  "To  S'ipivishta,  i.e.  to  him  who  is  in  the  form  of  Vishnu : 
for  the  Veda  says  S'ipivishta  is  Vishnu.  Or,  according  to  the  Vedic  text,  that '  s'ipi ' 
means  cattle,  S'ipivishta  will  mean,  he  who  enters  into  cattle,  i.e.  who  is  present  in 
all  creatures,  pervading  them.  Or  '  S'ipi '  means  sacrifice ;  and  so  S'ipivishta  may 
signify  him  who  has  entered  into  sacrifice  as  its  presiding  deity.  Or,  '  s'ipi '  is  the 
sun  who  presides  over  the  circle  of  the  sky — to  him  be  reverence ;  according  to  what 
Yaska  says  (Nirukta  5,  8)  '  S'ipi '  means  rays ;  by  them  he  is  pervaded." 

Pf o/essor  Weber,  has  the  fallowing  notice  of  '  S'ipivishta '  i:»  his  Indische  Studien 
ii.  37  f.,  no$£  This  is  one  'of  those  words  which  already  gave  trouble  to  Yaska 
(Nirukta  5,  9).  Bhatta  Bhaskara  Mis^a  has  the  following:.  Nirveshtita-seshaya 
(sepaya  ?)  \  sarvadd  devadaru-vana-pradesadau  va  yatha  adityatmane\yathd  Skanda- 
tpurane  S' aityachhamatayogad  (?}  va  sipi  vari  wrachakshate  \  tatpanad  rakshanad 
va  'pi  sipayo  rasmaijo  matah  \  teshu  pravishtah  savita  S'ipivishta  ihochyate  \  yadva 
pasavah  sipayah  "  yajno  vai  Vishnuh  pasavah  sipir "  iti  sruteh  sarva-pranady- 
antaryamitvena  pravishtah  ity  arthah  \  [Prof.  "W.  then  quotes  the  passage  of  the 
Mahabharata,  13229].  "'S'ipi'  is  akm  to  'e'epa,'  's'ipra,'  Kiefer,  hip,  Hufte, 
cippus."  ^  ^ >  ,  » 


506  ADDITIONAL  NOTES  AND  COEEBOTIONS. 

This  piece  of  information  is  taken  from  the  Amarakosha,  where  it  is 
said,  S'ipivislitas  tu  Ichalatau  duscharnfxni  maliesvare.  Halayudha  and 
Hemachandra  have  the  same.  Amara  inust  have  taken  the  two  first 
meanings  ('bald-headed'  and  'leprous*)" from  actual  use;  and  there 
is  no  reason  to  doubt  that  even  in  ,.the  Vtedic  passages  '  S'ipivlshta ' 
means  either  bald-headed,  or  one  who  ha^s  a  skra  disease.  So  long  as 
the  sense  of  '  sipi '  is  undetermined,  it  will  bt  difficult  to  choose 
between  the  two.  The  word  'sipi'  is  not  found  used  separately. 
For  what  the  Taittirlya  Sanhita  ii.  5,  5,  2  (quoted  above)  says,  yajno 
vai  Vishnuh  \pq,savah  sipih  (Tandya  Br.  xviii.  6,  2681),  and  all  that  the 
modern  Hindu  commentators  say,  about  'sipi,'  is  worthless.  A  glimmer 
of  light  is  cast  upon  '  sipi '  by  '  sipitam,'  '  defective,'  in  the  S'atap.  Br. 
xi.  1,  4,  4."82 

xx.  Page  91,  note  67. 
See  also  R.V.  viii.  22,  1. 

xxi.  Page  95,  line  1. 
For  "ix.  166,"  read  "ix.  100." 

xxii.  Page  95,  line  10. 

Another  verse  in  which  Vishnu  is  mentioned  is  one  in  the  funeral 
hymn,  R.V.  x.  15,  3:  A  ahan  pitrlm  suvidatrdn  avitsi  napdtafii  cha 
vikrdmanam  cha  VishnoTi  \  "I  have  found  the  beneficent  Fathers,  and 
the  path  and  the  stride  of  Vishnu'.'"  Napdt  is  explained  by  Mahldhara 
in  Vaj.  S.  19,  56,  thus:  Ndsti  pdto  yatra  sa  napdto  deva-yana-patho 
yatra  gatdnum  pdto  nusti.  "  l^apata  means  that  on  which  there  is  no 

81  This  passage  is  as  follows:  Esha  vai  Prajap&teh pasushtha  tanur  yat  S'ipimshiah  \ 
prano  brihat  \  pranah  eva  pasushu  pratitishthati  \  "  This  S'ipivishta  is  that  body 
of  Prajapati  which  abides  in  victims  (or  beasts),  The  Brihal  is  breath:  and  it  is 
breath  which  abides  in  victims."  On  which  the  commentator  -  remarks  :  "  Yajno 
Vishnuh  \  pasavah  sipir"  iti  sruty-ant'arat  \  Vishnoh  Prajcipatitvat  S'ipimshtah  iti\ 
"  For  another  Vedic  te^t  says  that  Vishnu  is  sacrifice,  and  sipi  denotes  victims.  Since 
Vishnu  has  the  character  of  Prajilpati,  he  is  S'ipivishta/  etc.  r 

83  The  Commentator's  note  on  this  passage  is  as  follows :  Akale  mrtiptam  havih 
sipitam  \  tad-asrito  dosha-viseshah  \  tad-yuktam  iva  yajnasya  far  tram  bhavati  \ 

Prof.  Aufrecht  proposes  to  correct  this  as  follows :  Akale sipitam  \  Zipitam  tanv*  j 

asrito  dosha-viseshah,  etc.  According  to  this  corrected  reading  the  sense  will  be : ' 
"  An  oblation  offered  at  a  wrong  time  is  '  s'ipita.'  Now  '  s'ipita '  means  a  particular 
defect  residing  in  the  body.  With  it  the  body  of  the  sacrifice  becomes  affected,  as 
it  were."  « 


ADDITIONAL  NOTES  AND  CORRECTIONS.  507 

• 

fall,  the  path  leading  to  the  gods.^  on  which  those  who  go  along  it  do 
not  falL"     Sayana  on  R.V.  x.  15,  3  makes  the  wQr&=vintisdbhdva, 

"  the  absence  of  desbAiction."  '• 

*  » 

I  '  "* 

xxiii.  Page  114,  line  14. 

j          >• 

For  Averse"  reatf  "sense." 

•  / 

•      'xxiv.  Page  119,  note  119. 

As  regards  the  question  whether  or  not  ether  (ukdsa)  is  eternal,  see 
the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  130  and  506,  and  the  third  'voh, 
pp.  70,  106,  and  164. 

xxv.  Page  127,  line  4  from  thefoet. 

For  " pravinakti"  read  "prapfinakti." 

•> 
> 

xxvi.  Page  128,  line  5. 

The  Commentator  on  the  Taitt.  Ar.  (Bibl.  Ind.),  p.  372,  explains 
utkara  thus :  Veder  uttara-bhdge  pdmsu-trinadayo  yatra  prakshipyante 
so  ''yam  utkarah  \  "  'The  utkara'  is  the  place  on  the  north  side  of  the 
Vedi  (altar)  where  dust,  grass,  etc.,  is  thrown." 

-»••• 
xxvii.  Page  129,  line  13. 

This*  passage  is  identical  with  Tandya  Br.  vii.  5,  6,  vol.  i.,  p.  433. 

xxviii.  Page  262,  tint  6  from  the  foot. 

The  Tandya  Brahmana  xji.  6,  8,  also  relates  that  Indra,  after  thus 
treacherously  slaying  Namuchi,  was  followed  by  the  head  or  something 
else  which  cried,  "Slayer  of  a  hero,  thou  hast  injured  me,  thou  hast 
injured  me."  This  he  could  not  destroy,  either  by  rich,  or  saman,  but 
by  a  Harivarna"  (tad  enam  paplyam  vuchaih  vadad  anvavartata  "vlra- 
hann  adruho  'druhah  "  iti  \  tad  na  richa  na  sdmnd  apahantum  asaknot  \ 
tad  hdrivarnasya  eva  nidhanena  apahata) 

^  * 

xxix.  Pagf  297,  line  18. 

To  the  word  "Jarasandha"  at  the  beginning  of  the  line,  prefix 
"582."  ' 

xxx.  Page  300,  line  6. 

For  "x.  70,"  read  "v.  70."      » 


508  ADDITIONAL  NOTES  AND  CORRECTIONS. 

• 

xxxi.  Page  302,  line  15. 

Prof.  Whitney  has  since  given  up  fliiis  interpretation.     See  p.  399. 

"  !  ' 

xxxii.  Page  3pS,'7^«e  7. 

For  "ii.  2,  29,"  read  "xi.  2,  29. V 

i-    t- 

xxxiii.  Page  303,  line  22,.' 
For  "  commentorial,"  read  "rommentatorial." 

*  xxxiv.  Page  306,  line  26. 

See  "Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  Dr.  Hall's  ed.,  vol.  ii.,  pp.  77  f. 

xxxv.  Page  319,  line  2. 
For  "x.  26,"read"xii.  26." 

xxxvi.  Page  400,  line  11. 
For  "ii.  23,"  read  "ii.  33." 

xxxvii.  Page  421,  line  24. 
For.l/x.  99,"  read  "x.  90." 

xxxviii.  Page  471,  line  12. 
F6r  "Devavati,"  read  "Vedavati." 

xxxix.  Page  491,  line  27. 
For  "xiii.  8,  17,"  read  "xiii  4,  17."  r. 


509 


INDEX. 


A. 

-j 

Abhyagni,  320  '  , 

Achhayaka  priest,  84  , 
Aditi,  1  Iff.,  80,84,  114 f., 

133  f.,  136,229,306,365 

etc. 

Adhvaryu  priest,  66,  160 
Adhvaryu  Brahmana,  14 
Aditeya,  117 
Aditya,  14,  26  f.,  46,  65, 

etc. 
is  lord  of  Brahma, 

Vishnu  and  Eudra,  475 
Aditya-hpilaya,  a  hymn, 

474  -'  ' 

Adityas,  14  f.,  54,  114  ff. 
JEschylus,       Prometheus 

Vinctus,  66 

Agastya,  473,  480,  485 
Agnayl,  1G1 
Agni,  9, 22  f.,  26,28  f.,  45, 

58,  61,  66,  70,  76,  etc. 

texts  in  praise  of,  1 1 1 

one  of  triad  of  gods, 

66,  70,  160  ff. 

hreaks  down  castles, 


312 

his  eight  forms  and 

names,  340  ff. 
enamoured  of  Rishis' 

wives,  352  ff. 

his  tongues,  429, 497 

Agnihotra,  57     ' 
Agni  Purana  iv.,  5 — 151 
Ahalya,  48,  496 
Ahankara,  42  f. 
Ahavamya  fire,  359    d 
Ahi,  82,  101 
Ahvriti,  253 
Aindra-vaishnava 

tion,  79 
Alt?  46 

Aitareya  Bi«!amana — 
i.     1—129" 

—  30—129 
I         ii.    8—289 

iv.  22—    9 
'  vi.  15—  84,  123 

—  33—319 
Aitas'a,  319 


obla- 


Jt 

Aitas'a-pralapa,  320 

Asuras,  their  castles,  203, 

Aitihasikas,  92 

223  ff. 

Aja,  378,  383  (see  Bralima) 

Asuri,  123 

Akas'a  (ether),  33,  119 

As'vatthaman,  186 

Akhandala  (appellation  of 
Ind'ra),  190      ' 

As'vamedha,  or  horse-sacri- 
fice, 167  ff. 

AmaravatI,  246 

As'vins,  46,  48,  68,  76,  12a8, 

Ambika,  321,  422 

etc. 

Atharva-s'iras  166  172 

according  to  the  Yajur- 

vedas,  321.     See  Uma. 

Atharva-veda,   quoted  or 

Ambitama,  424        ' 

referred  to  —  ' 

Ams'a,  or  Ams'u,  14,  115 

2,         1,     3—    6 

Anakadundubhi  (name  of 

—         27,     6—332,  403 

Vasudeva),  273 

3,        16,     1—313 

Anaranya,  457  f. 

—  20,    4,     7—  96 

Andhaka,  336,  472 

4,          2,  1-8—  15f.,  18 

Angas,  246 

—         21,     7—312 

Angiras,  91 

—         28,  Iff.—  332 

Angirases,  107,  116 

—         30,     5—318 

Aniruddha,    grandson    of 

5,          3,     3—  96 

Krishna,  435 

—         21,  11—333 

Anrita-deva,  410 

—         25,     5—  96 

Antaka,  336,  472 

—         26,     7—  65 

Anukramanika,  77 

6,  93,    1,     2—3^,  403 

Anushtubh,  162 

—       141,     1—333 

Apah.     See  Waters 

7,        26,  1-3—  68 

Aparnfi,  431.     See  TJma 

—        26,4-7—  63 

Apsarases,     obtained    by 

—  42,    1,     2—313* 

Kshatriyas,sbin  in  bat- 

—        44,     1—  83 

tle,  277 

—         50,     6—106 

Apsarases,  461 

—         79,     4—  16 

Araiiati,  sense  of  the  word, 

—         80,     3—  16 

317 

—     87,  1—333,358,403 

'Arbuda,  107 

8,          2,     7—333,  403 

Ardhaka,  336 

5,  10—333 

Arjuna,  161  and  passim 

8,  11—337 

Arjuna  (Kartavlrya),  177, 

9,                 2—    4 

25S 

6,  29—  63 

Arthavadas,  13  \ 

7,     7—334 

ArundhatI,  354 

—        10,  17—  76 

Aruumukha  Yatis,  493 

10,          1,  23—334,  403 

'  \Arurmaghas,  493 

2,     7—  23 

Aryas,  76 

3,     9—  11 

Arya  Bhattn,  110 

7,  25—  11 

Aryaman,'l4,  68,  78 

7,  7ff.—  18  f. 

As"ani,  342,  347      , 

—8,  2,  11,  44—  19 

Asita  Devala,  432  * 

8,  29—258 

Asura  (the  Spirit),  109 

11,    2,  1-31—  334  ff.,  403 

Asuras,  26  f.,  40,54,  58  ff., 

6,     2—115 

etc. 

6,    9—338,  403 

510 


INDEX. 


Atharva-veda,  continued' — 
12,         1,     8—  24 

—  4,  17—338,  403 
13           2,  26—     5 

—  4,  4,  26  ff.— 338, 403 f. 
15,         5, 1-7—338 

18,  1,  40—308 

19,  10,     9—  84 

—  53,  10—  27 

20,  17,     6—106 

—  87,     3—103 

—  89,    9—106 

—  99,     2—104 

—  106,  26—  89 

—  Ill,     1—  89 
-^    '114,     1—104 

—  126,     1—106 
Atigrahyas,  62 
Atikaya,  son  of  Ravana,  • 

412      . 

Aufrecht  (Prof.  Tli.),  his 
aid  acknowledged,  7, 59, 
78,  81,  84,  90  f.,  102, 
106,117,152,232,261, 
302,306,  310,314,409, 
411,  494,  502,  504 

his  Catalogue  of 

SanskritMSS.,151,188, 
228,  etc. 

Aupatnanyava,  88,  505 

Aurnavabha,  64  if.,  97, 
15~6,  439 

Avincfe*  3,  Minister  of  Ra- 
vana, 413 

B. 

Babbru,  212 
Badari,  188,  232,  etc. 
Bahlkas,  328,  339 
Bahvrich  S'ruti,  144 
Balarama    or    Baladeva, 

245,  249,  258,  260 
Balarama  incarnation,  156 
Bali,  133  ff.,  155,  465 
Banerjea's  (Rev.   K.  M.) 
dialogues  on  Hindu  phi- 
losophy, 49 
Bangas,  246 

Benfey's  (Prof.  Th.)  Glos- 
sary to  Sama-veda,  11, 
81  f.,  102  ' 
translation  of  Sama- 
veda,  63  f.,  87,  89 

of  Rigveda,  in 


Orient  und  Occident, 
63  f.,  68,102,229,302, 
315  f. 

Bhadra,  212 

Bhadrakali,  416 


Bhaga,  14,  80,  115 

Boar  incarnation,  27,  33  f., 
36  ff.,  156,  390 
Bohtlingk     and     Roth's 
Lexicon,  13,  and  passim 
•B^llensen's  (Dr.)  articles 
'     n  Jour.  Germ.  Or.  Soc., 
and  Benfey's  Orient  und 
dccident,  306  f< 
Bombay  edition  of  Rama- 
'yana,  33,  131,  &  passim 
Brahma,  1,  19  f.,  29  f.,  and 
passim 
Bi-anma  (the  Veda),  22 
Brahma,  10,  18,  31  f.,  and 
passim 
born  in  an  egg,  31  f. 
sprung     from      the 
waters  and  ether,  33 
becomes  a  boar,  33,  39 

out  by  RudLa,  200,  268, 
383               i 
Bhagavadfrita,  169,  381 
3   °0  ff    and  1 

7f.,  quoted,"  M'fsS 
Bhagavata  Purana  quoted 
1,        3,       ?—  ~36  « 
—  3,  Iff.,  &  26  f.—  156 
—    •     3,     16—  27 
2,        5,     34—  44 
—        6,21ff.—  10 
—       16,     10—  44 
3,      12,  28ff.—  47 
—       20,  12ff.—  43 
—       26,50ff.—  43 
—       30,     10—381 
4,       1,  47ff.—  378 

Qrt«*^    o  *r      <)V7  fP 

—        5,     20—202 
—      25,      6—381 
5,      19,       5—456 
6,  6,  24,     36—121 
—         6,     41—202 
8,  Sects.  15-23—  137  ff.  ' 
—       23,     29—  72 
—       24,  4ff.—  39 
10,        l,21ff.—  254 
—  33,  27ff.—49f.,  182,253 
—       34,       8—249 
—  Sects.  43  ff.—  215 
—  64th  and  previous  sect- 
ions —  178 
—       74,     34—206 
Bhaglratha,  365 
Bharadvaja,  96,  486 
Bharata,epithet  of  Agnl,28 
Bharata,  brother  of  Kama, 
175,  445  f. 
Bhava,  43,  328,  332, 
Bhavas,  331 
Bhavani,  405                    < 
Bhavitra,  81 
Bhimasena,  211 
Bhlshrna,  206 
Bhlshruaka,  215     , 
Bhogavatl,  253 
Bhoja,  253 
Bhrigu,  177 

fish,  38 
called  Narayana,  31, 
37,  39,  164  t 
springs  from  'a  lotus 
issuing    from   Vishnu's 
navel,  43,  230,  267,  477 
his  passion  from  his 
own  daughter,  47  f. 
—  —  the  first  god  in  the 
Trimurti,  163,  280 
grants  boons  to  Ra- 
vana  and  Atikaya,  etc., 
167,  412,  458,  470 

divinity,  181 
created    by   Rudra, 
188,  194      . 
created  by  Krishna, 
or    Vishnu,   230',   267, 
273 
worships  Linga  and 
Rudra,.  192f. 
acts  as  charioteer  to 
Rudra,  222,  226 
grants  boon  to  Ta- 
raka's  sons,  223 

hymn,  236 
is  son  of  Vasudeva, 
237 

Vishnu,   «Y     Krishna, 
and  Rudra,  240,  279"  _ 
promises  to  Rudra  a 
share  in  sacrifices,  374  , 
is  present  at  sacri- 
fices, 167,  374,  378 
is  father  of  Daksha, 
378 

out  by  Rud_ra,  383 
Bhrigus,  140 
Bhu,(14 
Bhur^bhuvab,  svar,  25 
Bhutadi,  42  f. 
Bhuvana,  9,  369 
Boar,  or  Varaha,  39,  67 

INDEX. 


511 


Brahma,  his  dispute  with 
Vishnu  allayed  by  the 
Linga,.  388 

is  a  form  of  Rudra,392 

Rudra  springs  fr^TE 

his  forehead,  392     0- 

identified  with  the 

soul,. of   the    Universe,' 
367  f. 

curses  Kumbhakar^a, . 

462  f 

his  promise  to  the1, 

gods,  471 

Aditya  called  his 

lord,  475 

asks  Vishnu  to  be- 
come Preserver,  477 

welcomes  Rama  to 

heaven,  479 

- —  is  mental  father  of 
Pulastya,  485 

offers  boons  to  Rama, 

485 

— —  cfeates  the  first  wo- 
man, 496.  (See  Hiran- 
yagarbha,  Prajapali, 
Vis'vakarman). 

Brahma-kalpa,  35 

Brahman  (priest),  66 

Brahmanaspati,12, 77, 162 

Brahmavaivarta  Puriina, 
182 

Brihadiiranyaka,  3,  22,  24, 
'29 

Brihaddevata,  i.,  13—163 

Brihadgiri,  492 

Brihaspati,  68,  96,  152, 
154, 162 

Brihat,  96,  162 

Burnouf's  Bhagavata  Pu- 
rana,  39,  14V 

Buddha,  212      , 

incarnation,  156 

C. 

Chaitraratha  forest,  230, 

252 

Chandakaus'ika  rishi,  292 
Charaka  Brahmana,  92 
Charana,  177 
Ciiryaka,Ritkshasa,friend 

of  Dury<jdiana,  294  ff. 
Chatunoasya,  57 
Chakshusha  Manvantara, 

120 

''  Chedis,  205,  215,  246 
Chhandas,  163 
Chhandogya      Upanishad 

quoted,  12,  26,  183 


Churning  the   ocean    for 

Durg'a-stava,  427,  498 

Amrita,  50,  365 

Durgati,  428 

Colebrookefs  (Mr.  H.  T.), 

Durvasas,  199,  204,  245, 

Essays,k66,  1  1  0,  245,  etc. 

275,  477 

Cowell't    (Prof.    E.   B.), 

Duryodhana,     disbelieves 

..Maitri  Upanishad,  267 
t^iii^ldtion  of  tlic 

Krishna's    supernatural 
character,  216  ff,  220  ff. 

Kaushitaki  Upanishad, 

desires  to   celebrate 

193 

Rajasuya  sacrifice,  283, 

D. 

293 

t> 

celebrates  Vaishnava 

DadhTchi,  240,  374 

sacrifice,  293  f. 

Dadhikra,  85 

Dushana,  472  . 

Daityas,  110       * 

Dushkanta,  457 

Daityasena,  350 

Dvaraka,  214,  etc. 

Daksha,   12ff.,   28,   115, 

Dwarf    incarnation",.    66, 

117  f. 

107f.,  130  ff.,  156 

his  sacrifice  disturbed, 

Dyaus,  46,  etc. 

200,  240,  372  ff. 

• 

reviles    and    curses 

E. 

Rudra,  379  f. 

Earth,  the  goddess,  38,  46, 

—  his  daughters,  385 

80,  161 

Dambhodbhava,  235 

her   burthen  light- 

Danavas, or  Danujas,  39, 

ened,  215,  255.     Com- 

110, 167 

pare  p.  161 

Dars'a,  57 

Egg,  mundane,  23  ff.,  30, 

Das'aratha,  167,  171  ff. 

41  ff. 

Dasyus,  248 

Ekalavya,  249 

Dattatreya      incarnation, 

Ekaparna,  431 

156 

Ekapatala,  431 

Dawn,  daughter  of  Praja- 

Ekavims'a-stoma,  162 

pati,  45 

Emusha,  28 

Death,  personified,  55,  57f. 

Entity  and  Non-jriity,  4 

Devakl,  mother  of  Krish- 

Euripides, his  Helena  and 

na,  181,  183,  257  ff. 

Orestes  quoted,  255 

Devarata,  177,  372 

Evayamarut,  81 

Devasena,  350 

» 

Dgvavatl,  487 

G. 

Devayam,  13/4  " 

Gada,  246 

Devi.     See  Uma 

Gandhamiidana,  240,  252 

Dewlbhagavataquoted,267 

Giindharas,  245,  249 

Devtmahatmya      quoted, 

Gandharva,  6,  112,  165 

435  f. 

Ganes'a,  278 

Dhammapada,  referred  to, 

Ganga,  270,  430 

201 

her  descent  365 

Dhanvantari   incarnation, 

Gangudvara,  374 

15f> 

Garuda,  189,  etc. 

Dharma,  156,  239,  241,378 

Garudi,  353 

Dhatri,  14,  96  f.,  115,  204 

Gaurl,  359,  422.  See  Uma 

Dhurjati,  205 

Gautama,  49,  496 

vDiti,  mother  of  Daityas, 

Gatiputrn,  482 

»     257,  305,  365 

Gayas'iras,  65 

Dravinodas.,  95 

Gayatrl,  123,  161 

Dundubhl,'  a  Gandharvl, 

Genesis,  Book  of,  48 

484 

Gharma,  96,  126 

Durgu,  426.     See^Jmu 

Ghora  Angirasa,  183 

Durgacharya,      commen- 

Girivraja, 288 

tator  on  the  Niruktay65, 

Gods,   how  they  became 

74,  117,  161,  355,  409 

immortal,  54 

512 


INDEX. 


Gods,  how  they  became  su- 

Harivams'a, continued  — 

Indra  conquered  by  Indra- 

perior  to  the  Asuras,  58 

4166,—  151 

jit,  495 

how  they  became  un- 

6579V— 215 

—  corrupts  Ahalya,49,496 

equal,  61 

6833,-*  -250 

Indradyumna,  253 

•  by  birth  are  alone 

7jU8,—  «83 

oLsdrajit,  son  of  Havana, 

objects  of  sacrifice,  131  ; 

9423,—  435     , 

f    and  conqueror  of  Indra, 

"  work  -  gods  "       may 

10235,-r4^5 

411,  417  ff,  450,  494 

themselves  offer  sacri- 

10660,— 278 

'  Indram,  405         , 

fice,  132,  496 

11548,"—  120   < 

Interpolated    passages  in 

Gokarna,  284 

12195,—  151 

'"Rumuyana,  479 

Goldstiicker's  (Prof.  Th.) 

<     12425,—    32 

Indu  (soma),  77 

Panini,  or  Manavakalpa 

12456,—  120 

'iravati,  253 

Sutra,  5,  169 

12900,—  151 

Isaiah,  xi.  6—190 

Qo-ncl.—  i*!^    T^infir*Tia-»«Tr 

Sectional  83  f     178 

•vl    99-  T!V   19   18   Sfi 

62 

Haug's  (Prof.  M.)  trans- 

Gopcti, 253 

lation   of  the  Aitareya 

. 

Gopis,  50  f. 

Bruhmana,  9,  84,  290, 

Jagati,  123,  162 

Gorresio's  Ramayana,  34, 

320,  493 

Jaiglshavya,  432 

and  passim       • 

dissertation  by  him 

Jaimini,  criticized  by  Com- 

    opiaion    regarding 

referred  to,  289 

mentator  on  Ramayana, 

Kama's        incarnation, 

Hayagrlva,  39 

496 

447,  481 

Heaven  (svar),  80 

Jamadagni,  177,  322 

opinion    regarding 

Heti,  486 

Jambavat,  146 

S'iva's       worship       in 

Himalaya,  230,  269 

JambavatI,wifeofErishna, 

Southern  India,  411 

Himavat,  385,  430 

189 

remark  by  him,  415 

Hiranyagarbha,  15  ff,  3  1  ff, 

Jambha,  234,  245,  249 

Govinda,  38,  219 

188,  355,  388 

JambudvTpa.  440 

Graha  (Rahu),  190 

Hiranyakas'ipu,  190,  215. 

Janaka,    father    of    Sita, 

Grahas,  62 

Hirauyapura,  234. 

17-3,  372,  464  f. 

Guha,  350.  See  Kurttikeya 

Hotri  priest,  66 

Janaloka,  38,  146,  388 

Gunas,  43 

Human  sacrifices,  whether 

Jara,  rakshrisT,  a  house- 

practised in  the  Yedic 

hold  goddess,  291 

~«      • 

age,  289 

Jarasandha,  212,  245 

Habakkuk,  iii.  6—72 

Hri,  168 

.  destines  human  vic- 

Hall (Dr.  Fitzedward),  his 

HrishTkes'a,  181,  208,  etc. 

tims  for  Rudra,  288  ff. 

aid  acknowledged,  374, 

slain  by  BhTraasena, 

37f,  407 

. 

.     291 

his  edition  of  Wilson's 

Ikshvaku,  445 

his  birth  related,  291 

Yishnu  Puraua,  3,  and 

Ila,  161  "     <J 

JfirathI,  253 

passim 

Immortality,  how  acquired 

Javeili,  171 

Hansa,  name  of  Krishna, 

by  the  gods,  54  ff.  , 

Jayadratha,  184,  186,286 

264 

Incarnation  of  a  portion  of 

worships  Rudra,  286 

Hansa,  name  of  Brahma, 

Yishnu.  253                   ( 

Jayanta,  an  Aditya,  118 

490 

!•     ,,,\~Tlf.       nr*A      Viljirtl*- 

Jayanta,  son  of  Indra,  495 

Hanumat,  456 

hairs  of  Yishnu,  257  ff. 

JayantT,  daughter  of  Indra, 

his  merits  as  a  gram- 

Indlia, 22 

153  f. 

marian,  490 

Indische  Studien  (P,rof.  A. 

Jayatirtha,  300 

Hail,  39.     See  Yishnu 

Weber's),  referred  to  or 

Jiva,  44 

Harivams'a  quoted,  or  re- 

quoted? 23,  28>  123,  200, 

Job  xxvi.  7—101 

ferred  to  — 

277,  etc. 

Journal  of  American  Ori- 

line 35,—  32    ' 

Indra,  15,  20,  22,  25f.,  40r 

ental..  Society,   re/cjnod. 

43,—  393 

48,  61,  64,  66,  160,  etc' 

to  or  quof-ed,'  48,  398 

171,—  120 

texts   in.  which   his 

Jvara  (fever),  374 

549,—  13 

greatness  is  celebrated, 

Jyeshtha  suman,  193 

589,—  120 

99  ff. 

Jyotisiitoma,  62 

940,—  431 

Celebrated  conjointly 

2725,—  151 

with  Yishnu,  74,  78,  83, 

. 

3236,—  433 

A1SQ          Inl 

86 

witli  Viflipr  nrnilc    108 

Ka(Prajapati  orKas'yapa), 

Mi     l'f»8 

INDEX. 


513 


Kaikasi,mother  of  Ravana, 

487  f. 

Kaikeyl,  173,  175,  445  f. 
Kailasa,  230,  etc. 
Kaitabha,  a  Danava,  230,^ 

433,  435 

Kaivalya  Upanishad,  36£ 
Kalakanj'as,  234 
Kalanemi,  an  asura,  254   , 
Kali,  416,  425,  427,  429. 

See  Uma. 

Kalinga,  202,  249  » 

Kalki  incarnation,  156 
Kamalasana  (Brahma),  43 
Kambojas,  243 
Kanadhumapenance,152f. 
Kandarpa,  364 
Kanyakumari,  427 
Kansa,  245,  255,  480 
Kapardin,  epithet  of  Rudra, 

301,  394 
• epithetofPushan,301 

—  of  tlje  Tritsus,  301 
Kapila  incarnation,  156 
Karali,425,429.  See  Uma 
Kama,  221  ff,  227  f. 
Kartavirya,  253 
Karttikeya,  his  birth  ac- 
cording to  the  Maha- 

bharata,  349 
according    to    the 

Ramayana,  364 
^arusha,  214 
Kaserumat,  253 
Kas'yapa,  13, 27,33  f,  118, 

133,  136,177,  322,  369 
Kataka,  commentator  on 

the  Ramayana,  on  inter- 
polations in  tlu«t  work, 

480  f. 

Kathaka,  319,  396  ? 
Katyayana's  s'rauta  sutras, 

126 

KatyayanT,  360,  426 
Kaus'alya.171,173,175,445 
Kaushltaki       Brahmana, 

343,  423 
Kausfika.  193 
Kaus'ikl,  434 
Kaustubha  gem,  263 
Kena  \iTpanishad,  quoted, 

420 
KesSn   (the   long-haired), 

318 

KiVin.  (his  car),  336 
Kes'in  (a  Danava),  350 
Ketumatl,  487 
Khandaparasti,  240 
Khandava,  128 
Khandava  forest,  161,  246 

VOL.  -fT. 


Khara,  a  rakshasa,  brother 

of  Ravana  j  471,  482 
Kimpurush<j,  289 
Kirata,  fojrm  of,  taken  by 

Rudra,  230     •» 
Kirli,  161 

•>  Kosala  Victehas,  328 
Kratlja,  253  , 
Krisanu,  75,  316 
"Krishna,his  ad  ulteries,|  8fT. 

' his  self-consciousness, 

'    178 

—  identified  with *Rama. 

181 


—  son  of  DevakT,  and 
pupil  of  Ghora,  183 

—  renders  homage   to 
Mahadeva,  186  ff.    • 

—  receives  boons  from 
Mahadeva  and  Urna*,  195 

—  is  a  great  devotee,  251 

—  performs  a  ceremony 
for  a  son,  259 

—  recommends  worship 
of  Durga,  205 

•  his  supernatural  cha- 


racter disputed  by  S'is'u- 
pala  and  Duryodhana, 
205  ff,  281 

explanation   of  his 


names,  218 

—  identified  with  the 
rishi  Narayana,  1 85, 228 

his       supernatural 

power  and  various  ex- 
ploits, 245 
-,  produced   from  the 


black  hair  of  Vishnu, 
257  ff. 

—  identified  with  the 
Supreme  Spirit,  50, 208, 
240,  264  ff. 

T —  Brahma  and  Rudra 
produced  from  him,  230, 
267,  273 

one  with  Rudra,  268, 


280 


his  fight  witb  Rudra, 

279 

goes  to  D  varavatl  from 

Year  of  Jarasandha,  288 
summary   of   views 

regarding  him,  281  f. 
Krita  age,  196 
Krittikas,  350 
Kshayadvira,  sense  o?  the 

word,  301  f,  399,  507 
Kuenen's  (Prof.  A.)  Histo- 

risch  -  Kritisch     Onder- 

zoek  referred  to,  320 


Kuhn's  (Prof.)  opinion  re- 
ferred to,  424 

Kuhn  and  Schleicher's 
Breitrage,  etc.,  81 

Knlluka  on  Manu,  3,  31. 

Kumara,  151 

Kumara  (a  boy) ,  applied  to 
Agni,  341 

Kumarila  Bhatta,  48 

Kumbhakarna,  brother  of 
Ravana,  462,  482 

Kurma  (tortoise)  incarna- 
tion, 27,  156 

Kurma  Parana,  376,  472 

Kurukshetra,  125,  128 

Kus'a,  son  of  Rama,  478 

Kutsa,  162 

Kuvera,  180,  366,  482  f, 
486 

L. 

Langlois's  Harivam^a,  250 
Lassen's  (Prof.  Christian) 
Indische      Alterthums- 
kunde,  or,  Indian  Anti- 
quities, referred  to,  136, 
169,211,243,245,283, 
"  etc. 

Lakshmana,  brother  of 
Rama,  175,  445,  etc. 

wounded  by  Indrajit, 

449  ff.  ^ 

— —  ascends  toheavdn,478 
Lakshmi,  182,  450  f,  460, 

465 

Lava,  son  of  Rama,  478 

Linga  Purana  quoted — 

1,    3,  28  ff— 42 

1,    4,  59  ff— 39 

-1,  17,  5-52—386 

1,  19,  8ff  —391 

2,  28          —426 
Linga  worship,  192,  405ff. 
Lingin  (receptacle  of  the 

lingii),  388 
Lokamprina,  67 
Lokayatikas,  138 
Madhu,  a  Danava,  230, 435 
Madhuki,  a  muni,  123 
Madhura,  a  city,  478 
Madhusudana,  133 
Maghavat  (Indra),  105  f. 
Manabharata,   quoted    or 
referred  to — 
i.  Adiparvan. 

1215—219 

2519—118 

2592—11 

2598—118 

2785—50 

33 


514 


INDEX. 


Mahabharata,  continued. 

Mahabharata,  continued. 

on  Yajasaneyi  Sanhita, 

7049—286 
7306—259 

vii.  Dror-i-parvan. 
382-^244 

7,  15  f.,  17,  104 
Maitri  Upanishad,  quoted, 

8196—246 

401  —  191 

267 

ii.  Sabha-parvan. 

C419—  235 

'Slakha,  125  ff. 

582—297 

Makhavat,  126 

626—287 

2355—243             " 

M^kha  Vaishnava,  128 

653—288 

283L—  184 

Malatl-Madhava,  430 

729—291 
861—289 

9575—203 
9632  199 

Mali,  487 
.  MalinI,  482 

869—278 
1211—205 

viii.  Karna-parvan.       * 
1625—221 

Malyavai,  487 
Mlnasa   (a  name  of  the 

1333—206 
1410—212 

ix.«  S'alya-parvan. 
2434  261 

Creator),  35 
Mandara  (a  mountain)  ,279 

r  iii.  Vana-parvan. 

3619—294 

Mandhatri      incarnation, 

1  Z.G 

166  ff.—  117  f.,  474 
192—371 

x.  Sauptika-parvan. 
289—191 

lob 
Mandodari,          Havana's 

461—229 
,471—251 

312—186 
780—406 

queen,  455,  466 
Man-lion  (nara-sifnha)  in- 

484—136 
615—216 
1513—184,  230 

786—373 
xii.  S'anti-parvan. 
241—369 

carnation,  135,  156                 L 
Manojava     (one     of   the         1 
tonguesofFire),429,498 

6054—284 

1414—295 

Manthara,  48i  f. 

8166—285 

1500—263 

Mann,  quoted  —  * 

8349—285 

1748—287 

i.       5  ff.—  30 

10209—369 

3655—277 

—    32  ff.—  35,  48 

10316—  48 

6775—  35 

iii.       2     —  413 

10368—388 

6805—  35 

,  vii.     38     —  413 

10932—  38 

7092—118 

viii.     82     —48 

11001—284 

10226—373 

ix.  305      —  117 

12797—  38 

10272—374 

—  308     —  148 

.  .  ,  14'287—  351 

12943—135 

xii.     91      —  30 

14427—350 
15274—293 
15777—286 
f        15872—481 
15999—285 
16148—413 

13133—266 
13152—185,  266 
13171—  63 
13228—219 
13229—  88 
'13265—238 

—  121      —  164 
Manu,  the  bard,  27 
Maim  Svayambhuva,  13 
Vaivasviti   33  113 

Manvantaras,  (Chakshusha 
and  Yaivasvata),  120 

16492—413 
16529—415 

13337—241 
13723—393 

Manvu,  3-19 
Maiichi,33f.,47,  118,  120 

iv.  Yirata-parvan. 
178—425,  433 
v.  Udyoga-parvan. 

xii.  Anusasana-parvan. 
590—187 
1160—406 

Marka,  155 
Markilndeya,  279 
Purina  313          / 

435,  497 

130—243 

6295  —  268 

Mams,  128 

147—243 

6397—189 

Mjmits,  45,  68,  76,  etc. 

320—261 

6889—189 

tfjartanda,  13,  15,  115 

414—496 
1875—247 
1917—232 

7092—118 
1  7232—369 
7356—274 

Matapanksba,  49 
Matsya  (or  Fish)  incarna- 
tion, 156 

2527—216' 
2560  218 

7402—196       , 
7510—405 

Matsya  Purana,  45'"  c 

3459     235 

xiv.  AsVaniadhika-parvan. 

3501—119 

1536—275 

of,  abstracted  &  quoted, 

4407—250 

Mahadeva.     See  Kudra 

151  ff.                        ( 

4409—210 

Ma'.xarloka,  146,  388 

Maya,  an  Asura,  223 

4418—220 

Mabat,  42 

Meghanada  (or  Indrajit),        -^ 

vi.  Bhishma-parvan. 

Mahavira,  126 

son  of  Havana,  450,  495 

793  ff.—  205,  432 

Mahendra,150.  Seelndra 

Mena,  wife  of  Himavat. 

2932—236 

Mahidhara  s  commentary          385,  430  f. 

INDEX. 


515 


Mem,  42 

Narayanns,    cowherds    so 

Nirukta,  continued  — 

Mithilii,  175 

called,  243 

12,        19—64,  156 

Mitra,  14,  68,  74 

NarayanTya  '    Upanishad, 

12,        23—71 

Molesworth's  Marathi  Dic- 

426  "    J 

12,        26—  318  f. 

tionary,  53 

Narmada*  river,  J  40 

12,        36—115 

Mrida,  379.     See  Eudra 

Nt/kundj,  427 

Nirukta,  Parisishta  — 

Mridfuii,  405                ^ 

,  Nidra  Xalnrupim,  433 

1       —114 

Mhjavat,'  322 

Nighantu  — 

1,    1—104 

Miiller's  (Prof.  Max)  edi- 

2, 1\  10,  17—310,  316 

2,    1—71 

tion  of  Eigveda,  314    "v 

2,  10—103 

2,  10—8 

111"      TVl'n~1'rlTl  ATI       n~P 

917      74.    ~t 

21  O        QA 

ditto,  66,  68,  105,  1U, 

Z,  1  1  —  /  rt     * 

4                 5,    3—159 

,  li  —  y1* 
2,  21—76 

801,  314 

Nikumbhila,  place  of  sac- 

Nishad, a  sort  of  treatise, 

Ancient   Sanskrit 

rifice,  416 

265 

Literature,  5,  17,48,103, 

Nilakantha,      name      of 

Nishadas,  328 

108,  113,  129,  289  f. 

Eudra,  427 

Nisunda,  252               • 

Ti"~nir'lriTi  ATI  r\T  riim 

Nilakantha,  commentator 

Nivatakavachas,  234 

1  1  uIlMa  L1UIL  Uj»  llllil 

inZeitschr.derD.M.G., 
105 

on    the    Mahabharata, 
260,  265 

0. 

o  vf  T  ol  rt     •-*«     •f»»«««..«l 

Nilarudra          Upanishad 

Ogha,  a  rakshasiJ,  250 

rites  of  the  Brahmans  in 

quoted,  363 

ditto,  415 

Nimi,  372 

. 

Viir.         n-I^         o  /il--M  ,-VTTT 

Nirmochana,  250 

PadmaPurana,  quoted,  27  8 

ledgeu',  498 

Nirriti,  78,  313 

Padma-kalpa,  37 

Mundaka  Upanishad,  29 

Nirukta,    quoted    or   re- 

Panchadas'astoma, 162 

;    o    A                Ann 

ferred  to  — 

Panchajana,  an  asura,  246 

Muni,  the,  318  f. 

1,        15—355,  403 

Panchavims'a     Brahmana 

Munjakes'avat,  240 

1,        17—320 

quoted,  129 

Mura,  245,  250 

1,        20—69 

Panchi,  a  muni,  123 

Muradeva,  410 

2,     6,  7—69,  73 

Panini,  405,  490,  502 

2,        11—441 

Pankti  metre,  162 

. 

2,        13—117 

Pannagas,  199 

Nagnajit,  245,  249                            2,        17—74 

Parameshthin,  19;>2J   - 

Nahum,  i.  3—64                                3,          7—165 

Paras'urama,     156,     170, 

Nairuktas    (or    etymolo- 

3,       10—190 

175  ff.  227,  287 

gists),  66,  92,  159 

3,        21—19 

Paiinah,  128 

Nalakuvara,  461,  485 

4,        19—71 

Parijata  tree,  246       * 

Namuchi,  slain  by  Indra 

1    4,        24—310 

Paris'rit,  57 

with  foam,  261,  472 

5,  7,  8,  9—88,  505 

Parjanya,  82,  1  1  1  ,  1  20,  1  60 

Nandis'vara,  380,  460  f. 

5,        11—81 

Parvatl.     See  Uma,    and 

Nara,  3  If.,  119,  156,  185,               ,,6,        11—332 

Himavat 

228  ff.                                             6,        15—8,11 

Pas'ubandha,  57 

Narah,  31  f.                                  ,6,         17—82 

Pas'upati,  289,  336  f.    See 

Narada,  269 

6,        22—75 

Eudra. 

74flP       RX*    1  £*7flF 

Pasupata  weapon,  184,  232 

,        3:H  —  DO,  io/XL 

flm  AiiTiPT"  T^rilim'T 

7,        25—74 

Pas'upata  rite,  361 

.LIUJUllLt-S  Jjl  till  111  elf 

Preface,  vi. 

>?,        29—114 

Patala,  38,  110 

Narada-pancharatra,   edi- 

8,       11—309 

Paulomas,  234 

ted    by    Eev.    K.    M. 

9,  1—28,  and  36  ff—  159 

Periplus,  427 

Banerjea,  Preface,  vi. 

9,          9—159 

Pictet's      (M.     Adolphe) 

Na!t  i-Jkj,'  an  Asura,  225,250 

A         9,        10—310 

Oi*igines       Indo-Euro- 

Narasamsa,  9^ 

10,        6ff—  299,  314 

peennes,  81 

Nu-asams'a  hymns,  159 

10,        40—100 

Pinakin,  191.     See  Eudra 

Narayana,  31  f,   37,   119, 

10,        26—9 

PiS'achas,  188 

)  156,  185,  228  ff. 

10,        27—8    , 

Pltha,  245 

Nara-simha,  or   man-lion 

10,        32—  1U 

Pliny,  427 

incarnation,    135,    156, 

10,        44—71 

Prabhasa,  252 

215 

11,          9—310 

Prachyas,  328 

Narayana,  commentator  on 

11,        23—13,159 

Pradhana,  3,  42,  194,  388 

the  Mahabharata,  119                  11,       '49—420                  See  Prakriti. 

•  k                                              \ 

516 


INDEX. 


Pradyumna,son  of  Krishna, 

221,  246,  435 
Pragjyotisha,  214,  253 
Praheti,  486 

Prahrada,  149,  152,  154  f. 
Prajiipati,  8,  15,  17ff,28f, 

33,  37,  54  ff,  97 
created  by  the  gods 

out  of  seven  men,  22 

creates  the  Veda,22 

creates  the  waters, 


22,  439 

born  in  an  Egg,  25 

takes  the  form  of 


a  tortoise,  27 
-<• —  Agni,  Indra,  etc., 
spring  from  him,  26 
producedAgni  from 


his  mouth,  28 

is,  Daksha,  28 

is  supporter  of  the 


universe,  28 

seeks  to  conquer 


worlds,  29 

his  passion  for  his 


own  daughter,  45 

-  half  of  him  mortal, 


55 


father  both  of  Gods 
and  Asuras,  59 

gives  names  to  the 


Kumara,  341,  345 
— i— ' '  produces     Agni, 
Vayu,  Chandramas,  and 
Ushas,  345 

gods  depart  from 


lf,m,  348.    See  Brahma, 
Prajapati  in  a   secondary 

sense  applied  to   Kas'- 

yapa,  Manu,  138,  273 
Prakriti,  263,  389.      See 

Pradhana 
Pralambha,  245 
Pramathas,  379 
Prat'itra,  200 
Pras  Q  ti,  daughter  of  Manu, 

and  wife  of  Daksha,  378 
Prathas,  96 
Pravargya,  126,  128 
Prayati,  4 

Pris'ni,  309,  311,  33& 
Pris'nigarbha,  264 
Prishthas,  162 
Pritha,  mother  of  Arjuna, 

'53  f.,  63,  185 
PrithivT,  161 
Prithuras'mi,  492 
Prithu  incarnation,  156 
Piilastya,  482,  485 
Puloman,  495 


Punjikasthala,  daughter  of 

Varuna,  458,  462 
Punjishthas,Q328 
Purandara  (InXlra),  120 
Purandhi  82 
Purikayas,  337 
Purnamasa,  57     f 
Puru,  103 

Pururavas,  457         c 
Purusha,  10,  19,  33,  42,' 

40,  73,  194 

Purusha  incarnation,  156  • 
Purusha  Narayana,  29 
Purush'a-sukta,  l"0,  29 
Purushottama,  252 
Purushottama      of      the 

Chedis,  297 

Pushan,  68,76, 95, 115,etc. 
' —  his  teeth  knocked 

out  by  Eudra,  200,  383 
Pushpotkata,    mother    of 

Eavana,'482,  487 
Putana,     female     demon 

killed  by  Krishna,  210 
Putriya  ishti,  170 

E. 

Eadheya,  286 
Rahu,  190 
Raivata-saman,  163 
Eaghuvamsa   quoted,  53, 

117,  138,  153 
Rajas,  11,  71,  267,  276 
Eajendralal  Mitra  (Babu), 

his  translation  of   the 

Chhandogya  Upanishad 

quoted,  26 
Eajasas.  3§7 

Eajasuya  sacrifice,205, 287 
Eaka,  482,  487 
Rakshasas,    their    ,  origin 

and  early  history,  486 
did  they  specially 

worship  Eudra  ?  411 
Rama,  represented  as  an 

incarnation  of  Vislmu, 

168  ff. 
his  miraculous  birth 

discussed,  170 ff.,  44 Iff., 

481 
ignorant  of  his  owa 

nature,  180 
told  b^"  Brahma  who 

he  is,  181 
j.the     gods     anxious 

abnut  him,  447 
congratulated  by  gods, 

472 

says  he  can  easily  de- 
stroy'Eakshasas,  476 


Rama  wounded  by  Indra- 

jit,  450, 
recovers  his   senses, 

452 

..-• told  by  Vayu  who  he 

•is,  453 
— —  does  not  know  Garu- 

da,  453 

defeats  Eavana,  457 

1 defied  by  Eavana,463 

adsised  to  utter  a 

()hymn  to  the  Sun,  473 

—  his  divinity  owned  by 

Mandodarl,  467 
ascends    to   heaven, 


479 

Ramayana  quoted  or  re- 
ferred to — 

i.  Bala-kanda. 
1,  4,  81  ff.,  84,  86—443  I 

1,  13  &  18—442  / 

2,  32—443 

3,  3ff.— 441 
4?  14—442 
8,  1—170 

11,  1—170 

11,  20—171 

12,  —171 

13,  36,  54—171 

14,  1—165 

16,  1—173 

17,  1—173 

18,  1  ff.— 173,  444 

19,  1  ff.— 174 
19,        1  Off— 444 

23,  10—164 

29,  9-250 

31,  2  ff.— 130 

32,  2ff.— 132 

35,  20—364 

36,  *        13—430 

37,  3,  5— 364  f.  f 
42  &  43         —365 

45,  21—366 

45,  26—  50 

*3,  16  ff.—  48 

49,  1  ff.—  49 

,  66,  7—372 

66,  13—464 

75,  14—1  iSr  e 

ii.  Ayodtya-kanda. 
108,  3—138     r 

110,  2—  33 

119,  2—  34 

iii.  Aranya-kanda. 

24,  19—448 

30,  20—447 

30,  27—371,  471 


INDEX. 


517 


Ramayana,  continued. 

Ramayana,  continued. 

Ravana  violates  Rambha, 

30,  "        36  —  373 

96,            ^0—414 

46  f 

31,            10—373 

defies  Vishnu  163 

106,          .     1  —  473 

32,              5—351 

111,      _,      23—413 

465 

58,               1—443 

113,               5-M66 

70,               2—373 

llS,      j      49—494 

to  be  Vishnu,  466 

iv.  K^hkindha'-kaiiSa.    ' 

113,  '•    '112—414 
119.            ,1  —  178 

liir,          VL,-,  J».        'U-.i'HnnJ 

with  Brahmanical  rites, 

5,            30  —  371 

y 

414 

40,             11  443 

vii.  Uttara-kanda. 

40,            54-439 

Sections  1-11—  485^ff. 

ritual,  413 

43,            20—366     j 

4,               9—439 

Rayo'vajTya,  492 

43,            46—480 

16,              1—  460 

Ribhukshan,  76,  95,  311 

43,             54—367 

17,               1—458 

Ribhus,  80,  88,  311 

44,            27—366 

17,             35—451 

Rich,  10 

44,             46—  368 

19,                 —457 

Richlka,  177 

44,           117—367 

23,                —480 

Riddhi  ,  wife  of  Kuvera,  370 

v.  Sundara-kanda. 
12,            39  373 

25,          2,  7—416 
27,             30—  495*ff. 

Rigveda  Sanhita  quoted  or 
referred  to  — 

24,            44—416 
89,  1  ff.—  370,  419,  483 
91^               3  4.77 

30,             12—  41& 
30,             19—497 
31,             42—406,  420 

Mandala  i. 
2,               2-76 

36,             44—490 

6,               4—314 

vi.  Yuddha-kanda. 

37,                —480 

7,               3—99 

7,             18—412 

59,                 —480 

9,              7—310 

17,               1—483 

103  ff.            —477 

10,               9—160 

18,            22—476 

Ramopakhyana,   story   of 

10,             11—193,  434 

19,             38—416 

Rama  as  told    in   the 

18,              2—317 

26,          8  ff.—  453 

Vana  -  parvan     of     the 

22,  16-21—  63ff.,97,402 

33,            25—455 

Mahabharata,  481  ff. 

22,        17  ff.—  75  ff. 

34,               7—464 

Rama's  story  as  related  in 

24,               8—108 

39,             21—441 
40,             44—463 

the  Drona-parvanofthe 
Mahabharata,  479 

27,            10—299.  395 
27,             13—  A  3 

41,               2—463 

Rathantara,  96,  161,  193f. 

32,               1—69 

44,            32—416 

Ratnagarbha,      commen- 

32,              6—102 

45,            50—449 

tator  on  Vishnu  Purana, 

32,             15—302 

51,             17—371 

quoted,  257 

33,             11—314 

54,            23—373 

Rambha,  an  .^.praras,  458, 

33,               1—502 

55,            88—371 

461 

34,             11—54 

59,          105-455 

Ratri-sukta,  498 

39,               6—494 

60,               5—457 

Ravana's  birth,  482,  488 

43,  1-6—91,  300,  399  f. 

fift                     A7       aV?9 

\\*n  nnc?f  rtfi'ti  ,-i-     A  QO 

45,               2     54 

Duj                    Of—  *Oi 

60,             11—462 

,    488 

50,              7—71,  109 

/>o                          f\       ^AO 

_T_A_  *    „  }-»,-»,-»«  •frrtm 

fii                   o  CQ     \ 

63,             13—418 

Brahma,  482,  488 

u  x  ,                      Ar^—  UO 

51,               3—316,  408 

fi4                 1  1       41  8 

*^«-r-nn  T7"ii-,«««    -Pr-rtrvi 

51                 *>     fil 

j 
65,             12—419  "* 

La^ka,  483 

f  X,                             tl—  —  U  1 

52,  8,  12-14—99 

66,               2—418 

55                1     99 

71,      28,  31—412  f.   • 

483 

56,               4—317 

72,             62—413 

"Rt«olitv»n      •rtvrtrMic'nct 

59,               5—103,  111 

:.^»  •         37—371 

•^    his  destruction,  483 

61,             7—67,92,503 

>JQ            &9  371 

vrrsvitYtrlc*             T    nt'tVl 

61                 9     99 

«4,'             14—418 

mana,  45^ 

63,               7—103 

O  K                         1O         A  1  Q 

fi4.                9     *?nn  A.ctc\ 

Ouj                      L£i  'ilo 

D^j                        ft        OUUj   TrvV 

»  86,             14—419 

457                      -, 

67,             3—111 

87                    9      418 

81                   4      *514 

O  f  ,                             ^—  T  1O 

ox,                     t  —  01^ 
81                    ft      QQ  f 

93,             58—413 

suits,  Vedavati,  459 

OX,                                   i/—  {7l7  1, 

85,               1—301,  400 

QC                          e  '     AC.Q 

.                                     1%  \  e>       «  vm  "      mm  eil-»  nrl 

85               7     68 

95,             25—469 

by  Rudra,  461 

90,         5,  9-68 

518 


INDEX. 


Rigveda,  continued. 

Rigveda,  continued. 

Rig 

veda,  continued. 

90,'             7—71 

6, 

V69'  77 

16, 

39—312 

94,              5-71 

17, 

1\83 

17, 

4—310 

96,              3—28,  82 

18, 

5-8,3 

17, 

7—99,  162 

99,                —499 

26, 

*    7-71 

'  17' 

11—81,  92 

102,              8—99  f. 

30, 

5—  iro    ' 

26, 

2—82,  98 

103,               2—100 

T> 
wU, 

9-1-1  Gl 

.    21, 

9—82 

104,               6-315 

32, 

7-9—77,,  101  f.,  109 

28^ 

7—  3i2,  400 

105,               8—410 

33, 

4—109 

30, 

4—99,  103 

106,               4—302 

44, 

3—102 

/"31, 

2—103 

108,               9—70 

47, 

*'•            1—314 

I     32, 

1    5—109 

112,               3  —  302 

53, 

6—160 

3t, 

4—310 

114,  1-11—  301  ff.,  309f., 

53, 

t        7—306 

38, 

3—103 

396,  400  f. 

54, 

14—77,  97 

46, 

13-109 

115,               1—111 

55, 

10-77 

47, 

8—160 

12  1,"         2  f.—  100,  107 

Mandala  iv. 

48, 

13  f.—  82 

122,               1—306 

1, 

"6-6 

49, 

10—312,  400 

125,               3—302 

2, 

4—78 

49, 

13—82,  97 

126,               1—159 

3, 

1,  6—302,  310,  400 

50, 

2—13 

127,          '     3—494 

3, 

7—78,  97 

50, 

4—312,  400 

128,               2—314  f. 

5, 

7,  13—  316  f. 

50, 

7-17 

129,               3—306,  400 

6, 

6—6 

50, 

12—82 

131,              1—306 

7, 

7—316 

55, 

"2-,  -301 

154,  1-6—68  ff.,  73,  75, 

16, 

5—102 

66, 

8—312,  400 

82,  97,  101 

18, 

11—78,  97  f. 

69, 

1-8—83  f.,  97 

155,  1-6—74  f.,  84,  86, 

30, 

1—99,  102 

70, 

1,  5—108,  310 

97  f. 

36, 

9—310 

72, 

2—101,  107f. 

156,          1-5-75  f.,  97 

38, 

6—310 

74, 

1-4—  313,400f. 

164,               6—71 
164,            36—76 

50, 
55, 

2—82 
4—79 

Mandala  vii. 

165,             13—314  f. 

58, 

5—19 

1, 

6—317 

167,,    ,    4f.—  410,  420 
180,               7—410 
181,               3—82 
186,            10—76 
190rtj            2—109 
Mandala  ii. 

2, 
3, 
17, 
21, 
29, 

Mandala  v. 
"  1—341 
1_3_79,  97 
2—316 
4—316 
7—81      , 

3, 
3, 
10, 
20, 
20, 
21, 
31, 

5—80 
10—314  f. 
4—313 
1—314 
4—99,  103 
3-8—407,  409 
7—102    ' 

1,             '3—  76,  97 
1,              6—306,  400 

41, 
41, 

'  2—311 

20—317 

32,  16, 
33 

22  f.—  99,  103,  258 
1  301 

1,           8f.—  114 
3,             11—314 
12,  If.,  9,  13—  15,99,100 

42, 
43, 

46, 

11,  15—311,400 
6—  317  "" 
2-4—80 

34; 
35, 
35, 

21—317 
6—313,  400 
9—84 

15f           1-3—69,99,101 

49, 

3—504 

36, 

5  313 

108    • 

51, 

9—80 

36, 

8  317 

18,               4—160 

51, 

13—311 

36, 

9  85 

22,               1—77 

52, 

16-31J-  400 

3? 

2  314 

27,              1—115 
27,            10—108,  114 

54, 

59, 

6—317 
8—311 

**'  » 

39, 
40. 

5—78,  85 
5  —  85 

28,            10—63,  76 

60, 

5—311,  400 

*v> 

41 

1  313 

33,        1-15—  302,307ff. 
396,399ff. 

63, 
70, 

5-71 
2  f.—  300         ' 

*1> 

42,    < 
44 

3-3f?>  '  ' 
<'fc_85 

34,               2—309,  400 

73, 

r—  91 

**» 

46, 

1-4—314,  400 

34,             11—85 

74, 

6—316 

56, 

1,  2—315,  400 

38,               4—317 

81, 

3—72,  95 

56, 

8—319 

38,               8—13 

83, 

8-5 

58, 

5  —  315 

38,               9—309 

87, 

1,  4,  8—81,  97 

59, 

12—321 

Mandala  iii. 

Mandala  vi. 

60, 

6—314  f. 

2,               5—310 
5,               6—316 

1, 
11, 

11—310 
S—  7 

65, 
78, 

3—148 
4-314 

INDEX. 


519 


Rigveda,  continued,. 

Rigveda,  continued. 

Rigveda,  continued. 

82,               5—108 

67,             j5—  105 

61,'          4-7—46 

83,               8—301 

72,          ,    7—93 

61,             19—341 

86,               1—108 

77,       ,      3—101 

64,               8—316 

86,               4—314 

77,              4-A105 

64,             15-317 

87,          1,  2—102,  109  " 

78,              5—105 

65,               1—95 

.87,               6—69     - 

82,    '*  "  11—105 

66,               3—317 

93,      "       8-85 

8.5,             ^5—68 

66,           4  f.—  95 

98,          3—99,  103,  111 

86.               9—105 

69,               3-310 

99,      1-7—  72.  75,  86  f..    [      87,               2—106 

72,     1-9—  llf.,  28,  115 

97  f.,  504    '         89.           3  f.—  337^ 

75,              9—161 

100,      1-6—82,  86  f.,  97, 

89,             12—78,  97  f. 

79,               3—316 

307,  504 

90,         llf.—  ]j)9 

81,          1-7—5  ff.,  30 

101,              4—111 

82,          1-7—5  ff. 

103,               7—81 

Mandala  ix. 

85,            37—410 

104,      12,  24—410 

1,               4—310 

86,               1—106,  114 

4                1  113 

86,         16  f.—  410 

Mandala  viii. 

6,              3—  310j 

88,             10—65 

1,            21—68 

33,               3-93  < 

88,             11—114 

3,          6,  8—104 

34,               2—93 

90,                —282 

7,             10—81 

43,               5—310 

90,               2—105 

9,             12—88,  97 

44,               6-310 

90,             16—23 

10,              2—89 

45,               5—90 

92,          5,  9—317,  400 

12,       '        8—504 

56,              4—93 

92,             11—95 

12,  16,  25  ff.—  89,  98 

59,               1—114 

93,          4,  7—317 

13,             20—316 

61,             16—112 

94,               2—161 

14,             13—261 

63,        3,  12—93,  310 

95,           4f.-19 

15,          8  ff.—  89,  98 

65,             20—94 

99,           1-8—408  f. 

17,             12—190 

66,             18—63 

102,               8-301 

17,             14—319 

67,     5,  10  f.—  301,  310 

109,               1—24 

19,             10—302 

83,              5—113 

110,               6—309 

20,               3—85 

86,       28-30—112 

111,  1-5-99,  101,  107  f. 

20,               7—314 

87,               6—310 

113,           1  f.—  & 

20,             17—316,  400 

89,               6—112 

116,               2—160 

20,             23—300 

90,               5—94 

121,         1-10—15,  71 

21,         13—15,  100,  104 

96,    5—94,  98,  112,  114 

12-5,    •           6—318,400 

22,               1—506 

96,      10,  14—114 

126,               5—318 

22,         13  f.—  300,  316 

Q7                 1  fe    .  VO^ 

127,           1-8—304,  498 

25,               5—82 

97!             24—112 

128,               2—96 

25,       11-14—89,  402 

100,               6—95 

129,           1-7—3  f. 

26,               5—300 

100,-              8—113 

133,          2—15,  100,  107 

27,               8—90 

101,             13—126 

134,          1—25,    99,  107 

28,               5—305 

107,               7—113 

136,           1-7—318 

29,  1-10—90  f.,  97,  400 

109,              4—113 

138,               3—99 

30,               1—113 

112,              4—410 

139,              5—71,112 

31,             10—91 

114,               3—115 

140,               1-310 

31,             12—317    "* 

141,          3,  5-96 

32,             10—82 

Mandala^x. 

142,               2—301 

35,        1,  14—91 

1,               3—95,  97 

149,         1—101,  108,  110 

36,               4—104 

7,              6—7,  9 

154.              3—278 

3>  •*         3—101 

•v    9,               5—302 

168,           3  f.—  16 

42,  1,2,  10->?09,lll,317 

10,                —48 

169,               1—320 

48,               3—357 

15,             °3—  506 

171,               2—126 

51,           .   2—76,  104 

17,               3—162 

180,              2—69 

.67,               1—86 

25,              1—  31<Sf. 

181,           1-3—96 

59,               5—104 

39,             11—310 

184,               1—96 

61,               3—316 

40,             12—316 

Rishabha  incarnation,  156 

64,             12—106 

42,               9—106 

Rishika,  253 

66,               4—81 

43,               5-106 

Rishis,  22 

66,   10-27,  91,  97,  502 

48,               3—106 

Rishyas'ringa,  167,  172 

*l                                       '         S 

520 


INDEX. 


Ritadhaman,  180 
Eodasi,  420 
Eoer's  (Dr.  E.)  translation 
of  the  Upanishads,  421 
Eohim,  260,  262 
Eosen's    (Dr.    F.)  Latin 
translation  of  the  Rig- 
veda, 63 
Eost  (Dr.  E.),  suggestion 
made  by  him,  210 
Eoth  (Professor  Eudolph), 
article  by  him  in  Jour,  of 
the  American  Oriental 
Society,  48 
—  —  -article  by   him   in 
Jo'urnal  of  German  Ori- 
ental Society,  114,  148 

Eudra,his  linga,  192,405ff. 
his  unchgstity,  191 

Eudra,  his  linga  appears  & 
allays  a  dispute  between 
Brahma  andVishnu,390 
plays  dice  with  Ku- 
)    vera,  483 
—  —  his-  linga    worship, 
«     1^2,  405  ff. 

na  and  Arjuna,,  184  ff., 

worshipped  ty  Brdn- 
ma  and  Vishrfa,:<l93 
his  fight  with  Krish- 
na, 279 
the  creator  of  Brahma 
&1ishnu,  188,  193,  391 
sprung  from  Brahma, 
392  f.t 
sprung  from  Krishna 
or  Vishnu,  267,  273 
identified  with  Vish- 
nu, 241,  280,  384 

Wilson,     "Weber,     and 
/"  Whitnev  on  him,  394  ff. 
>  summary  of  views  re- 
garding him,  399  ff. 
Eudra  Prajapati,  46 
Vastoshpati,  46 
Eudras,  64,  180,  331 
Eudranl,  405 
Eudravartani,  sense  of  the 
word,  316 
Eukmin,  215,  286 
Eukmim,  wife  of  Krishna, 
189  " 

s.  f 

S'achi,  135            ' 
Sadhyas,  180 
Sagara,  365 
Saint  John's  Gospel,  iii. 
8  16 

the  Nirukta,  6,  8,  9,  13, 
64,  69,  73,  81  f.,  105, 
314,  etc. 

Supreme  Spirit,  1  85,  232 
disturbs      Daksha's 
sacrifice,  240,  268,  372  ff. 

andsYw,  494. 
See  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth 
Eudra,  42,  45,  50 
Eudra,  as  represented  in 
the  Rigveda,  299  ff. 

Asuras,  203,  225  f. 
his  vigour  increased 
by  hymns,  226 
his  third  eye  formed, 
270 

Yajurveda,  321  ff. 

Vishnu,  272 

S'aivas,  385 
S'aivya,  253 
S'akapuni,  64  ff.,  97,  166 
S'akra,  105 
S'akti,  383 
S'akvara  sama,  162 
Salankatankata,  486 
S'alya,  King  of  the  Madras, 
221  ff. 
Samaveda,    parallel    pas- 
sages from,  5,  10,  63,&c. 
i.  90,  and  i.  361—27 
S'ambara,  86 
S'ambhu,  43,  367 
S'ambhu,    King    of    the 
Daityas,  459 
Sanaka,  38 
Sanandana,  38 
S'anda,  155 
Sandhyavidya,  428 
S'ankara  on  Brahma-su- 
tras  i.  3,  28,  referred  to, 
131' 
S'ankhayana  i>  Brahmana 
vi.  1  ff.,  343                '' 
Sankhya,  3,  41,  224      . 
S'anta,  174                         ' 
Saprathas,  96 
Saptadas'a  stoma,  162 
Sarasvati,  35,  80,  85,  424, 
428 
Sarayu,  368,  478  f. 

Atharvaveda,  332  ff. 

ship  as  described  in  the 
Mahabharata,  284  ff. 
seizes  victims  atsacri- 
fice,  284 
human   victims  de- 
voted to  him,  288  ff. 
father  of  Maruts,  p05 
cuftes?£andarpa,364 

Brahmanas,  339  ff. 

Upanishads,  355  ff. 

Eamayana,  176,  364  ff., 
405 

Mahabharata,  184-205, 
223  ff.,  230  ff.,  240  f., 
266  ff.,  278  ff.,  282  ff., 
373  ff. 

327 

or  abuse   of,  him   ex- 
plained away  by  conn 
mentators,  327,  379 
cursed  by  Daksha,380 
cursed  by  Bhrigu,  382 

Bhagavata         Purana, 
378  ff. 

Vishnu  Purana,  392 

beard  and  Bhaga's  eyes, 
knocks    out    Pushan's 
teeth,  and  cuts  off  Da- 
ksha's head,  383  f.  (sef 
also  200,  268) 
formerly  general  of 
the  gods,  365 
receives  the   Ganga 
on  Eis  head,  365 
swallows  poison,  366 
his  abode,  367 
"-  identified  with  Vis'va- 
karman,  369,  376  f. 

Linga  Purana,  386,ff. 

Harivams'a,  393 
Eudra  identifiedwithAgni, 
339  ff. 
fights  with  Vishnu, 
176,  279 
fights  with  Arjuna, 
231 
identified  with  Krish- 
na, or  Vishnu,  280 

INDEX. 


521 


S'arnga,  181 

S'atap  Brahmana,  contd. 

S'aru,  78 

jx. 

S'arva,  186,  328,  332 
Sarvamedha,  369 

1,    1,   IflV—  330,  347 
1,    b    6ff.—  348 

S'arvam,  405 

2,    2,    2     *L.  21 

S'atadhanvan,  253        J 

"3,    C}    2     —  56 

S'ataghni,      a      magical  » 

5,  V,  '1     —  56 

weapon,  249 

5,,    1,  l?,ff.—  58 

S'atapatha         Brahmana 

X. 

quoted  —                      \ 

1,    3,    Iff.—  5^ 

i.              , 

1,    4,    1     —  55 

2,    3,    6     —290 

2,    1,    1     —  29 

2,    5,    Iff.—  122 

2,2,    1,    5     —  »23 

7,    2,  22     —  59 

2,    3,  18     —  23 

7,    2,  24     —106 

2,    4,    8     —  23 

7,    3,    1     —202 

3,    5,  13     —  56 

7,    3,    8     —339,  403 

4,    2,    2     —  55 

7,    3,  18     —  59 

4,    3,    Iff.—  5P 

7,    4,    1  ff.—  45,  201 

4,    4,    1     —  5L 

9,    2,  34     —106 

6,    5,    1     —    3 

ii. 

xi. 

1?    1,3     21 

1,    2,  12     —  58 

1,    4,  11     —  24 
1,    4,  27     —123 
2,    2,    8     58 

1,    4,    4    —506 
1,    6,    Iff.—  17,  24 
1,    6,  14     —  21 

2,    4,    1     —  28 

1,    8,    If.—  30,  60 

4,    4,    1     —  28 

2,    3,    1     —  29 

6,    2,    9     —321 

2,    3,    6     —  58 

2,    7,  26     —  61 

iii. 

3,    2,    1     —  61 

1,    3,    3     —  14,  115 

4,    3,    1     —  56 

9,    4,  20     —  27 

5,    1,    1     —  19 

iv. 

6,    3,    8     —116 

1,    5,    1     —  48,  129 

xii. 

5,    4,    1  ff.—  61 

3,    4,    1     —  29 

5,    7,    2     —  54 

7,    3,    1     —261 

6,    3,    1     —  56 

xiii. 

V. 

2,    4,    1     —  29 

1,    1,    1     —  fiO 

6,0  1,    1     —  29 

7,    1,    1     —  29 

vi. 

,  7,    1,  14  f.  —369 

1,    1,    Iff.—  20  ff.,  404 

xiv. 

1,    2,    1     —  46 

1,    2,    8     —116 

1,    1,    1     —124 

1,  2,  \S,  21     —  21     -> 
1,    3,    1  ff.—  21 
'  1,    3,    7  ff.—  339,  404, 
2,    1,    1     —  21 

1,   _2,  11     —  27 
2,    2,    2-24 
4,  2,  21,  23     —"29 
7,    1,  34     —131 

"        3L                       * 

**1         1M  1  Q         i__     70 

8,    1,    1     —258 

%    2,  11  „•>-  61 
,6,    3,    2     —  61 
7,    i,  17     24 

>  8,    6,    1     —  24 
S'atarudriya0  186,     193, 
199,  322  ff. 

,8,    1,  14     —  28 

its  object  and  name 

explained,  349 

vii. 

S'atarupa,  13,  48 

4,    1,  19     —  15 

Sat!   (Mahadeva's   wife), 

4,    3,    5     —  27 

378,  385.     See  Uma 

5,    2,  11     —  19 
5,    2,  21     —  22 

S'atrughna,  yj5,  445 
Sattva  g;una,  267,  276 

VOL.   IV. 

Satyaloka,  388 

Saubha,   a  magical  city, 

246,  249,  etc. 
Saumanasa  peak,  440 
Saumya  adhvara,  57 
S'aurva,  328 
Sauviras,  214 
Savana,  60 
Savarni  Manvantara,  149, 

155 
Savitri,   20,  72,  80,  109. 

See  Surya   • 
Savitrl,  48,  379 
Sayana,  11,   12,    14,   46, 

261,  303,  etc. 
Sayangriha  muni,  252 
Schlegel's  Ramayana,  33, 

and  passim 
his  opinion  referred 

to,  170 
Scholia    minora    on    the 

Iliad  quoted,  255 
S'esha,  110 
Siddhas,  165 
Siddhantas,  110 
Siddhanta-s'iromani,  110 
Siddhas'rama,  135 
S'ipivishta,  87  f.,  504  ff. 
S'is'nadeva,   sense  of  the 

^  word,  407  ff. 
S'is'upala  disputes  Krish- 
na's right  to  ^honour, 

205  ff. 
his  previous  history, 

— —  slain  by  Krishna?215 
Sita,  daughter  of  Janaka, 

and  wife  of  Eama,  175, 

and  passim 
her  birth  from  the 

ground,  464  f. 
threatened  by  Rak- 

shasis,  416 
sees  Eama  wounded. 

451 
was  formerly  Yeda- 

vatl,  460 
born    for    Havana's 

destruction,  460,  471 

—"enters  the  fire,  178 
S'itikantha,  176,  240 
S'iva,  176  (see  Rudra) 
S'iva,  wife  of  Angiras 
Skambha,  11  f.,  is  ff. 
Skanda  (see  Karttikeya) 
Skanda  Purana,  152 
Sky  (Dyu),  46      [pati,  45 
Sky,  daughter   of  Praja- 
Soma,  77,  80,  94  f.,  108, 

113f.,C^O,  422 

34 


522 


INDEX. 


Somagiri,  367 

Taittiriya  Aran.,  contd.  —  ' 

Tamas,  267,  276 

Speech,  22 

v.     1,       1  ft—  127 

Tandi,  195 

SphulinginI,  429,  498 
S'raddha,  27 

x.     1,       8    '—28,502 
—    1,  150     —4.22 

Tandya  Mahabrahmana  — 

S'rl,  76,  168,  273,  453 
S'rldhara  Svarnin,  51 

Taittiriya  Brahmana  — 

••  iv.             1,     4  —  503 
V1'.             9,     7—349 

S'rlkantha,  241 
S'rlvats'a,  241,  263 
Stasinus,  Cypria,  256 
Stevenson   (Dr.),  on  the 
ante-brahmanical    reli- 
gion of  the  Hindus,  406 
Sthanu,  165,  167 

i.     . 
1,    3,    5ff.—  24 
4,    1,    1     ^-59     - 
6,    1,    2     —347 
6,  *4,  10     —321 
7,    1,    2     —347 
7,    1,    6     —261 

vii.             4,     2—503 
—  '           5,     6-^507 
—  5,  11;  6,  5—503 
5,  20—152 
•t  —          -  8,  If.—  503 
s'viii.             1,     4—491  f. 
2,     1—502 

o      T  f\       ^fiQ 

Stomas,  162                                                 ii. 

£)     L\J  O\Jo 

Sudarsana  (name  of  Vish-           2,    9,    9     —  25 
nu*s  chakra),  191,  249             6,    9,    1  ff.—  21 
Sudarsana,  249 

ix.             7,     9—504 
xii.  5,  23;    9,  21;    13, 
27—503 

60         rr\fr 

S'uddhas'uddJblya,  491 
Suddhumrgvarna,  429                 1,   p,    7     —129 
Sugrlva,  452,  465                        2,   7,    9     —15 

,        O  507 

xiii.             4,  17—491 
xiv.           11,  28—491  f. 
xviii.             1,     9—492 

Sukes'a,  486                                 2,    9,    6     —61 

S'ukra,  150,  1-32  ff.                      4,    1,    1     —289 

XX-            14      2  503 

Sulohita,  429,  498 

9,  21,    1     —116 

—           15,     6-  -504 

Sumali,  487,  495 

10,    9,    1     —58 

Sumitra,  173,  175 

12,    3,    1     —29 

Tanunapat,  9 

Sunaman,  245,  249 

Taittiriya  Sanhita  — 

Tapoloka,  146 

S'unas's'epa.  289,  300 

i. 

Taraka,   Tarakaksha,    an  , 

Sundari,  487 

Asura,  223  f. 

Supars'va  (minister  of  Ra- 
vana),  413 

1,    5,    1     —  341 
1,    8,    1     —126 

Tarkshya,  148 
Tides,  cause  of  the,  219 

S'urasenas,  245 

ii. 

Time,  in  the  form  of  an 

S'urpp-nqJ'ha,  482,  488 

2,  12,    5     —505 

ascetic,  477 

Surya,  29,  61,  66 

3,    2,    1     —55 

Tlrtha,  a  commentator  on 

—  •—   texts  in  praise  of, 

4,    9,    2     —492 

the  Ramayana,  480 

109,  473 

4,  12,    2     —78 

Tishya,  316 

cone  of  the  triad  of 

5,    5,    2     —504,  506 

Trayastrims'a  stoma,  163 

gods,  66,  160  ff.,  298 

6,    8,    3     —200     , 

Triad  of  Agni,  Vayu  (or 

Surya  (goddess),  91 

fli 

Indra),  and  Surya,  61, 

S'ushna,  107 

ill* 

163,  298,  421 

Sutala,  149 

2,    4,    1     —126 

of  Brahma,  Vishnu 

Svadha,  4 

4,    5,    1     —129  , 

and   §'iva   (or  Rudrai), 

•  r.ti  c-o      /-»-f      4-\\  a       *irf\v*A 

• 

980 

314 

IV. 

1,    8,    3ff.—  17           c 

AiOV/ 

Trijata,  a  Rakshasi,  451 

Svadhavat,  sense  of,  314 

6,    2,    Iff.—  5f. 

Trikadruka,  77,  87 

Svaha,  353 

Trikuta,  285 

Svapivata,   sense    of   the 

V. 

Triinurti,  163 

word,  314 

4,    3,    1     —348^ 

Trinava  stoma,  162 

Svarat,  43 

5,    7,  --4     —348 

Trinavindu,  486 

Svaya.nbhu,  47,  173 

7,    5,    3     —24 

Tnpishtapa,  284 

Svayambhuva,  13        r 

vi. 

Triple  science,  60 

S'vetadvlpa,  241 

242     39 

Trishtubh,  123,  16^  r 

S'vetasvatara,  Upanishad, 
355 

2',    7,    5   ^—492 
683     160 

Tri&'ringa,  3Bfc> 
Trita  Aptya,  89,  409      r 

Svishtakrit,  200,  372 

Trivikrama,  67,  273 

vii. 

Trivrit  stoma,  161             • 

. 

1,  *5,    1  ff.—  24 

Tryambaka,  204,  321 

Taittiriya,  70 

4,    9,    1     —201 

Turghna,  128 

Taittiriya  Aranyaka  — 

Talaketu,  25S 

Tushitas,  120 

i.   14,       1     —116 

Talavakara    -4.  Upanishad, 

Tvashtri,  80,  91,  95,  97, 

-23,       1     ^24 
>                            "         , 

420,  422 

115,  317 

INDEX. 


523 


U. 

Uchhais's'raYas,  245 

Udayagiri,      or      Udaya- 
parvata,  65,  440 

Udgiltri,  66 

TJgra  arid  Ugradeva,  336, 
339,  312  f.,  346 

Ugraser.a,  249 

Ukthya  ritual,  84 

Urns,  daughter  of  Daksi  a 
and  Prasuti,  378,  385 

reborn  as  daughter 

of  Himavat  and  Menu, 
385 

:  ii'.imavat:,  421  fF. 

Bother  name, 
431 

—  her  names  and  attri- 
butes, 432 

born  as  a  child  of 

Yasoda,  434 

connected  with  Vish- 
nu as  yaha.ma.ya,  435 

identified  with   the 

Supreme  Spirit,  436, 
(Called  also  Aparna, 
Devi,  Durga,  Kali, 
Kariill,  ParvatI,  Sati, 
Yoga-nidrS) 

TTpahavya.  the,  491 

Upamanyu,  189 

Upendra,  150.  See  Vishnu 

Urmila,  465 

TJmkrama,  121 

Us'anas,  142f.,  150,  152 
-,  91,  340 

Us'ijes,  112 

Uttanapad,  12  f. 

Utlanapfida,  13 

Uttanga  muni,  275 

Ilttara  Kurus,  367 

Uttara  Mimansa,  131 

V. 

Vach,  23,  46  f. 
Vaijayanta,  393 
Vaimanika  creation,  b88 
Vairaja  saman,  162 
Vairupa  saman,  162 
Vuisin:  wa  rite,  294,  416, 

l»e 

Vaishnavas. 

Vaijsravana,  370,482,486 
Yaitaram  river,  284 
Vaivasvata     Manvantara, 

120,  136 

Vajasaneyi  Sanhita.  quoted 
or  referred  to — 
3,         57-63—321, 420 
5,  11—430 


Vaj.  Sanliita,  continued  — 
5,               15—66 
6,               16-86 
6,      ,          3—74 
8,               4,  —-, 
10,               20—16 
11,     -          67—126 
12,             102  —  16 
Ib,                 4—15 
16,  1-66—  302,  322ff.,505 
17.         17-23—5 
17,         25-31—5  f. 
18,              66-71 
23,                3—16  , 
°3               20     171 

one  of  the  triad  of 
gods,  66,  70,  160  ff. 
Vavu  Purana  quoted,  188, 
267,  278,"  375,  377 
Vedas,  depreciated  by  the 
S'aivas,  381 
Vedavati,  458,  471 
Vedayyasa  incarnation,  156 
V'.'iididad,  328 
Vibhundaka,  166 
Vibhlshana,  370,  450,452, 
476 

character,  483,  489 

23,              49—67 
25,       12,  13—  15  f. 
27,                5—17 
27,           25  f.—  16 
30,                5—  28s* 
32,                 4—358 
32,             6  f.—  16 
33,               74—4 
33,           ',8  f.—  80 
37,            3-5—27,  126 
39,                 8—403 
Vajas'rav:is,   sense  of  the 
word,  310,  494 
Vajramushti,  487 
Vaktra,  286 
Valuiiki,      "  sees  "      the 
Ramiiyaiia,  441 
Vamadeva',  171 
Vamana  Parana,  228 
Vamra,  4U9 
Varada,  428 
Varaha,   an    Asura,    93. 
See  "Boar" 
Varaha  Purana,  278 
V;irchin,  86 
Varuna,  14,  20,  48,*68,  74, 
76,  98 

from  Brahma,  4831,  489 
Vibhvan,  80 
Vidarbhas,  215 
Videhas,  177 
Vidhatri,  81,  121,  204 
Viduratha,  246 
Vidyutkesa,  486 
Vi  liyaka,  359 
Vindhyavali,  145,  149 
Virabhadra,  373,  377 
•44,  4S,  US,  390 
Virinchi,  Virinchya,  378, 
389.     See  Brahma. 
Virochana,  133 
Visala,  214 
Vis'esha,  44 
Vishnu,  20,  27  f    °1,  34, 
36  ff.,  47,  219,  &  passim 

Rigveda,  63-97 

63  ff.,  229,  439 

Rigveda,   as   compared 
with  other  deities,  97-' 
114 

121,  164 

brated,  108f. 

Brahmanas,  121  ff. 
i  dwarf   l^S 

46  2  .   See  Punj  ikasthal  fi 
VarunanT,  405 

148,  250 
Vasishtha,  33,  73,  96,  171, 
etc. 
Vastavya,  202 
Vastoshpati,  47 
Vasudeva,  38,  218,  270,etc. 
•ofthcPundr  3  297 

a  fish,  tortoise,  boar,  27, 
3-ff. 
as  a  dwarf,  130  ff. 

ther,  152 

curse  to  be  born  seven 
times    on    earth,    152, 
155  f. 

Vasu  Savitra,  49~5 
Vasys,  54,  91 
Vata,  16,  76,  96 
V-ayu,  29,  46,  66,  70,  76, 
89,  etc. 

according  to  the  Matsya 
Purana,  156 

524 


INDEX. 


Vishnu,  Ms  twenty-two  in- 
carnations according  to 
the  Bhagavata  Puriina, 
156 

Vishvaksena,  181 
Vis'ravas,  482,  486 
Vis'vajit  sacrifice,  137 
Vis'vakarmau,  22,  149,176, 
204,  367  £.,  377,  484 
Visvamitra,  177,  1?9 
VisVarupI,  429 
YiVvedevas,  89,  128 
Vivasvat,  14  f.,  33  f. 
Vraja.  50 
Vratya  338 
Vrihadratha,  291 
Vrihaspat'sava,  382 
Vrishas'ipra,  86 
Vritra,  78,  89 
Vyadi,  490 

W. 

"Waters,  17  f.,  22  ff.,  31  ff., 
119 
Warriors  slain  in  battle, 
their  future  rewards,  277 
•'•of.  Albrecht,  see 
"Indische  Studien" 

Wilkinson's  (Mr.L.)  trans- 
lation    of    Siddhanta- 
&riromani,  110 
Williams's  (Prof.  Monier) 
*  Indian  Epic  Poetry,161. 
'  1&6 

numerable  according  to 
ditto,  156 

Dictionary,  249 
Wilson's    (Prof.  H.   H.) 
Saukhyakarika,  41 

Rama,  166,  168  ff.,  175, 
441  ff.  _ 

Krishna,      156,      169, 
216  ff.,  252  ff. 
'  —  one  with  Rudra, 
241  - 
one  with  the  Su- 
preme   Spirit,   38,   60, 
181,  264  ffb 

ar/,  82 
translation  of  Rig- 
veda,  66,  171 

Purana,  3,  41,  48,  119, 
etc. 

Rudra,  394  f. 
"Work-gods"  are  not  ob- 
3  of  sacrifice,  but  can 
offer  it,  131,  496 

T. 

Yadus,  50 
Yajna  incarnation,  156 
Tajnikas,  159 
Yajush,  10,  96 
Yajushmati,  57 
Yakshas,  153,  167 
Yama,  48,  180,  203,  333 
Yarn!,  48 
Yaska.     See  Nirukta 
Yatifl,  491  f. 
Yatudhana,  332 
Yatudhanis,  326 
,  253 
Yoga,  224 
Yoganidra,  485 
Yudhishthira,205  &passim 

177  f."°" 

deva    produced      from 
him,  230,  267,  273 

Brahma,  389 

(or  Mahadeva),  391 
Vishyupada,  65 
Vishnu  Purana  quoted  or 
referred  to  — 

i               0         O1     f        0 

inarks  supplied  by  him, 
201 
his  dissertation  on 
Rudra,  395  ff. 

—        .2,     25     —41 
—        3,       Iff.—  36 
4,       1  ff.—  36 
—          7            —385 
-      «7,       1    -35 
__  .   «7,       6    —392 
-r-        7,  12,  &c.-  35,  48- 
—        7,     26    —35 
^         8,       9    —385 
—       15,     90  ff.—  119 

Uma,  421  ff. 
•  his  article  in  Journal 
of  Germ.  Or.  Soc.,  131 
Indische  Streifen,289 
article  in  Kubn  and 
Schleicher's  Beitrage,81 
his  toti/ie  of  the  first 
edition  of  this  work,  298 
remarks  on  M'lndaka 
Upanishad,  i.  2,  4-429 
%  on  S'ipivishta,  505 
Westergaard's  dissertation-  ,- 
on  Indian  history,  405 
Radices,  299 
Whitney's  (Prof.  W.  D.) 
remarks  on  Rudra,  <j98f. 

ii.         5,     19     —110 
iii.         1,            —136 
iv.       14,       4    —215 
T.         1,-      Iff.—  254  ff. 
—      26,       1     —215 

rajasuya  sacrifice,  287, 
292 

Z. 

Zeus,  256 

STEPHEN  AUSTIN  AMD  SONS,  PRINTERS,  HERTFORD 


UNIVERSITY  OF  ILLINOIS  URRANA 


