UC-NRLF 


B    3    MA7    55A 


•♦•  >,w, ,•■■•■  .-■ 


GIFT   OF 


NOV  SB  !9tS 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  PUBLICATIONS 


IN 


MODERN    PHILOLOGY 

Vol.  4,  No.  1,  pp.  1-268  November  19,1913 


OVID  AND   THE   RENASCENCE 
IN  SPAIN 


BY 
RUDOLPH   SCHEVILL 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  PRESS 
BERKELEY 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  PUBLICATIONS. 

Note. — The  University  of  California  Publications  are  offered  in  exchange  for  the  publi- 
cations of  learned  societies  and  institutions,  universities,  and  libraries.  Complete  lists  of 
all  the  publications  of  the  University  will  be  sent  upon  request.  For  sample  copies,  lists 
of  publications  or  other  information,  address  the  MANAGER  OF  THE  UNIVERSITY 
PRESS,  BERKELEY,  CALIFORNIA,  U.  S.  A.  All  matter  sent  in  exchange  should  be 
addressed  to  THE  EXCHANGE  DEPARTMENT,  UNIVERSITY  LIBRARY,  BERKELEY, 
CALIFORNIA,  U.  S.  A. 

Cited  as  Univ.  Calif.  Publ.  Mod.  Philol. 

MODERN  PHILOLOGY. — Charles  M.  Gayley,  Hugo  K.  Schilling  and  Rudolph  Schevill, 
Editors.    Price  per  volume,  $3.50. 

Vol.  1.    1.  Der  Junge  Goethe  und  das  Publikum,  von  W.  R.  R.  Pinger.    Pp.  1-67. 

May,    1909    $0.50 

2.  Studies  in  the  Marvellous,  by  Benjamin  P.  Kurtz.    Pp.  69-244.    March, 

1910    2.00 

3.  Introduction  to  the  Philosophy  of  Art,  by  Arthur  Weiss.  Pp.  245-302. 

January,   1910 „ 50 

4.  The  Old  English  Christian  Epic:  a  Study  in  the  Plot-technique  of  the 

Juliana,  the  Elene,  the  Andreas,  and  the  Christ,  in  Comparison  with 
the  Beowulf  and  with  the  Latin  Literature  of  the  Middle  Ages,  by 

George  Arnold  Smithson.    Pp.  303-400.    September,  1910  1.00 

Vol.  2.    1.  Wilhelm  Busch  als  Dichter,  Kunstler,  Psychologe,  und  Philosoph,  von 

Fritz  Winther.    Pp.  1-79.    September,  1910  ...„ 75 

2.  The  Critics  of  Edmund  Spenser,   by  Herbert  E.   Cory.     Pp.   81-182. 

June,    1911   1.00 

3.  Some  Forms  of  the  Riddle  Question  and  the  Exercise  of  the  Wits  in 

Popular  Fiction  and  Formal  Literature,  by  Rudolph  Schevill.     Pp. 
183-237.     November,   1911  50 

4.  Histrionics  in  the  Dramas  of  Franz  Grillparzer,  by  Elizabeth  A.  Herr- 

mann.    Pp.  239-309.     June,  1912 75 

5.  Spenser,  the  School  of  the  Fletchers,  and  Milton,  by  Herbert  E.  Cory. 

Pp.  311-373.     June,  1912  „ „       .75 

Vol.  3.    1.  Einfiuss  Rousseaus  auf  Klinger,  von  Fredrich  A.  Wyneken.     Pp.  1-85. 

September,   1912  _ „ 1.00 

2.  Das  Gerettete  Venedig,  Eine  vergleichende  Studie,  von  Fritz  Winther. 

Pp.  87-246.     (In  press.) 
Vol.  4.    1.  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain,  by  Rudolph  Schevill.     Pp.  1-268. 

November,  1913  „ _.    2.50 

CLASSICAL  PHILOLOGY.— Edward  B.  Clapp,  William  A.  Merrill,  Herbert  C.  Nutting, 
Editors.    Price  per  volume  $2.50. 
Vol.  1.    1.  Hiatus  in  Greek  Melic  Poetry,  by  Edward  Bull  Clapp.    Pp.  1-34.    June, 

1904    _ $0.50 

2.  Studies  in  the  Si-Clause.    I.  Concessive  Si-Clauses  in  Plautus.    II.  Sub- 

junctive Protasis  and  Indicative  Apodosis  in  Plautus.    By  Herbert  C. 
Nutting.     Pp.  35-94.     January.  1905 60 

3.  The  Whence  and  Whither  of  the  Modern  Science  of  Language,  by  Benj. 

Ide  Wheeler.    Pp.  95-109.    May,  1905 - „ _..      .25 

4.  On  the  Relation  of  Horace  to  Lucretius,  by  William  A.  Merrill.    Pp. 

111-129.     October,  1905 „ 25 

5.  The  Priests  of  Asklepios,  a  New  Method  of  Dating  Athenian  Archons, 

by  William  Scott  Ferguson.    Pp.  131-173.    April  14,  1906  (reprinted 
September,  1907)    „ ., „ .50 

6.  Horace's  Alcaic  Strophe,  by  Leon  Josiah  Richardson.     Pp.  175-201. 

March,  1907  _ - ....       .25 

7.  Some  Phases  of  the  Relation  of  Thought  to  Verse  in  Plautus,  by  Henry 

Washington  Prescott.     Pp.  205-262.     June,  1907 .50 

Index,  pp.  263-270. 


UNIVERSITY    OF    CALIFORNIA    PUBLICATIONS 


MODERN    PHILOLOGY 


VOLUME    4 


CHARLES  M.  GAYLEY 

H.  K.  SCHILLING 
RUDOLPH  SCHEVILL 

EDITORS 


BERKELEY 
UNIVERSITY  OF   CALIFORNIA 

1913-1916 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 

1.  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain,  by  Rudolph  Schevill 1 

'2.  Notes    sur    le    voyage    de    Chateaubriand    en     Amerique     (Julliet- 

Decembre,  1791),  par  Gilbert  Chinard  269 

3.  Du  transeendentalisme  considere  essentiellement  dans  sa  definition 

et  ses  origines  francaises,  par  William  Girard  351 


354011 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA   PUBLICATIONS 

IN 

MODERN    PHILOLOGY 

Vol.  4,  No.  1,  pp.  1-268  November  19,  1913 


OVID   AND   THE    RENASCENCE 
IN  SPAIN 


BY 
RUDOLPH    SCHEVILL 


UNIVERSITY   OF  CALIFORNIA    PRESS 
BERKELEY 

1913 


D.  MARCELINO  MENENDEZ  Y  PELAYO 


OVID  AND   THE   RENASCENCE   IN   SPAIN: 


BY 

RUDOLPH  SCHEVILL 


CONTENTS 

Introduction  2 

I.  The  Middle  Ages 6 

1.  The  Beginnings  of  the  Study  of  Ovid  and  of  his  Influence  on 

Mediaeval   Literature   6 

2.  El  Libro  de  buen  Amor  by  the  Arcipreste  de  Hita  and  its  Indebt- 

edness to  Ovid  28 

3.  The  Art  Lyric  of  the  Fifteenth  Century  55 

II.  The  Beginnings  of  Renascence  Fiction  87 

1.  The  Influence  of  Ovid  and  The  Ovidian  Tale  87 

2.  The  Origin  of  The  Ovidian  Tale  in  Italy  101 

3.  The  Continuation   of  the   Ovidian   Tradition   in    Spanish   Prose 

Fiction    114 

4.  The  Ovidian  Tale  and  Cervantes  132 

III.  The  Metamorphoses  retold  in  Spanish  143 

1.  The  Translations  of  Viana,  and  Bustamante  143 

2.  General  Features  of  the  Version  of  Bustamante.     The  Machin 

ery  of  Adventure  in  Contemporary  Romances.     The  Persiles 

y  Sigismunda  of  Cervantes  163 

3.  Classical  Mythology;  Ovid  and  Cervantes  174 

IV.  The  general  Indebtedness  to  Ovid  of  the  Siglo  de  Oro  199 

1.  Various  Types  of  Prose  Narrative  199 

2.  Lope  de  Vega  and  Ovid 211 

3.  Lyric  Poetry  of  the  Sixteenth  Century  226 

APPENDICES 

I.  Bibliographical  Appendix  234 

II.  Epistola   VII,  Dido  Aeneae,  of   Ovid's  Heroides   in   a   Mediaeval 

Spanish   Version   251 

III.  The  Life  of  Ovid  added  by  Fernan  Nunez  to  his  Commentary  on 

Juan  de  Mena  's  el  Laberinto  de  Fortuna  263 

IV.  Bustamante 's  Version  of  the  Tale  of  Pyramus  and  Thisbe  265 

*  This  is  the  fourth  contribution  to  a  series  called  originally  Studies 
in  Cervantes;  I:  Persiles  y  Sigismunda,  Modern  Philology  (Chicago),  vol. 
iv,  no.  1,  1906;  II:  Heliodorus,  Modern  Philology,  vol.  iv,  no.  4,  1907; 
III:  Virgil's  Aeneid,  Transactions  of  the  Connecticut  Academy  of  Arts  and 
Sciences,  vol.  xiii,  1908. 


University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 


INTRODUCTION 

In  the  third  article  of  my  studies  which  are  devoted  chiefly 
to  the  investigation  of  classical  influence  on  the  works  of  Cer- 
vantes, my  purpose  was  to  demonstrate  the  extensive  indebted- 
ness of  Spain 's  golden  century  of  letters  to  the  poet  Virgil.  Upon 
turning  my  attention  to  Ovid,  it  soon  became  evident  to  me  that 
I  should  have  to  cover  far  more  ground  than  was  the  original  plan 
of  my  studies,  if  I  desired  to  present  his  relation  to  the  whole 
Renascence  as  fully  as  lay  in  my  power,  and  that  the  vast  extent 
of  his  influence  would  be  more  apparent,  if  its  origin  and  con- 
tinuity could  be  presented  together.  As  regards  the  mediaeval 
epoch,  something  has  been  done,  as  may  be  seen  from  the  bibli- 
ography below,  but  even  for  that  period  the  full  importance  of 
the  works  of  Ovid  can  hardly  be  appreciated  until  the  influence 
of  all  the  chief  Latin  poets  upon  the  literatures  of  mediaeval 
Europe  has  been  more  conclusively  investigated.  To  the  study 
of  this  period,  however.  I  have  added  but  little,  as  it  antedates 
my  subject ;  and  though  my  review  of  the  early  centuries,  notably 
in  Spain,  presents  some  material  not  examined  hitherto,  my 
efforts  have  been  devoted  chiefly  to  the  age  which  has  been 
treated  least.  This  extends  from  the  dawn  of  the  Renascence  in 
Italy  through  the  siglo  de  oro  of  Spanish  literature,  that  is, 
through  the  first  third  of  the  seventeenth  century. 

Here,  too.  it  soon  became  a  hopeless  task  to  deal  with  the 
whole  subject  exhaustively,  and  if  only  a  very  small  portion  of 
what  could  be  done  has  been  accomplished,  the  result  may  at  least 
serve  two  purposes:  to  throw  more  light  on  the  nature  of  Ovid's 
pronounced  influence  in  specific  epochs,  and  to  demonstrate  the 
continuity  of  his  prestige  and  authority  from  age  to  age  by  fol- 
lowing the  ramification  of  a  distinct  Ovidian  tradition  through 
various  periods  and  forms  of  literary  activity. 

Owing  to  the  vast  extent  of  this  field  typical  examples  of 
Ovid's  influence  and  selections  of  citations  and  parallels  have 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  3 

been  considered  sufficient  to  prove  the  case,  although  more  evid- 
ence of  a  similar  character  might  have  been  adduced.  Thus,  for 
example,  a  large  part  of  my  study  deals  with  the  novela  senti- 
mental, or  romance  of  intrigue,  which  I  shall  hereafter  designate 
as  the  Ovidian  tale  of  the  Renascence;  and  though  there  are 
many  stories  which  come  under  this  head,  only  typical  examples 
could  find  room  in  my  analysis.  And  in  the  field  of  lyric  poetry 
and  of  the  drama  also,  a  limited  number  of  instances  will  be 
given  to  suggest  the  specific  nature  of  the  indebtedness  of  the 
poet  treated  to  the  works  of  Ovid. 

The  influence  of  Ovid  is  in  some  respects  more  subtile  and, 
therefore,  less  tangible  and  direct  than  that  of  Virgil.  This  must 
be  attributed  to  the  fact  that  we  are  often  dealing  not  so  much 
with  direct  imitation  of  a  particular  work,  as  with  the  inheritance 
of  certain  literary  traditions,  the  domination  of  a  peculiar,  recog- 
nized prestige  in  a  circumscribed  field  of  poetic  or  novelistic 
ideas  which  were  first  suggested  or  inspired  by  Ovid.  His  author- 
ity along  certain  lines  became  so  well  established  in  the  Middle 
Ages  that  thenceforth,  through  the  period  of  the  Renascence,  his 
name  retained  its  charm,  and  his  works  constituted  a  final  court 
of  appeal  to  many  a  writer  of  poetry  and  romance. 

Careful  study  of  the  works  of  the  great  authors  of  the 
Renascence  discloses  even  in  their  most  original  creations  a 
marked  heritage  of  culture  derived  from  one  or  more  preceding 
periods  of  literary  activity.  This  heritage  contains  elements  of 
traditional  material  accepted  and  assimilated,  unconsciously  in 
some  cases,  but  more  often  consciously  and  in  deference  to  cur- 
rent taste.  It  is  the  discovery  and  analysis  of  what  original 
minds  have  absorbed  out  of  epochs  prior  to  their  own,  which 
invite  the  efforts  of  the  student  of  literary  history,  and  which 
form  the  basis  of  the  present  study  of  Ovid.  In  some  cases, 
investigation  in  the  material  which  authors  have  used  in  the 
fabric  of  their  labors  may  lead  at  once  to  a  tangible  source,  such 
as  current  books  whose  popularity  prompted  direct  imitation ;  it 
may  reveal  the  sway  of  mere  literary  fads  and  customs,  or  the 
more  subtile  power  of  an  inherited  tendency  to  pay  tribute  to 


4  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

an  accepted  authority  of  long  standing,  because  it  had  been  a 
factor  in  the  writer's  early  education,  or  a  part  of  the  atmos- 
phere in  which  his  mind  matured.  The  example  of  Cervantes  is 
a  case  in  point :  many  passages  in  his  writings  indicate  not  only 
imitation  of  books  whkh  he  must  have  had  in  his  hand,  but  the 
form  of  his  ideas  often  discloses  the  influence  of  an  academic 
vogue,  the  acceptance  of  current  taste,  the  use  of  phrases  and 
sentiments  for  which  parallels  can  be  found  in  predecessors  and 
contemporaries  alike.  But  the  assimilation  of  inherited  forms 
of  expression,  or  of  ideas,  may  characterize  a  circumscribed  epoch 
or  it  may  be  carried  on  through  an  unlimited  number  of  cen- 
turies :  time  is  not  always  a  definite  factor  in  the  history  of  a 
specific  literary  influence.  This  is  the  case  with  Ovid.  Thus 
certain  elements  of  fiction  of  the  Renascence  find  their  sources  in 
him ;  and  after  having  been  transmitted  for  the  greater  part  in 
an  unbroken  current  to  subsequent  ages,  they  nevertheless  dis- 
play more  vitality  than  many  features  which  were  new  in  the 
literature  of  the  fifteenth  and  sixteenth  centuries. 

The  works  of  Ovid  form  a  particularly  important  and  inter- 
esting study,  not  only  because  they  contributed  from  the  twelfth 
to  the  seventeenth  century  to  the  formation  of  certain  traditions ; 
they  also  acquired  new  prestige  during  the  Renascence  by  means 
of  translations,  chiefly  of  a  popular  character,  which  by  their 
spirit  and  form  take  rank  with  fiction,  and  thus  deserve  to  be 
enrolled  with  the  literature  of  the  times.  Indeed,  "Ovid  retold" 
in  various  Spanish  and  Italian  versions  constitutes  a  valuable 
chapter  in  the  history  of  the  novel,  especially  for  the  "Ovidian 
tale ' '  of  the  Renascence. 

Two  phases  of  the  influence  of  Ovid  are  discernible,  and  for 
the  sake  of  clearness  will  be  considered  separately  as  far  as 
possible.  The  first  is  marked  by  greater  subtileness  of  character : 
it  inspired  principles  of  fiction,  a  philosophy  and  precepts  in  the 
"art  of  love,"  methods  of  intrigue,  specific  sentiments  applicable 
to  peculiar  situations  of  lovers  together  with  an  analysis  of 
man's  attitude  toward  womankind,  aphorisms  suitable  to  the 
occasion — indeed,  various  pagan   features  of  the  novel  of  the 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  5 

Renascence.  In  this  more  subtile  kind  of  influence  the  works 
which  play  the  chief  part  are  the  Ars  amatoria,1  the  Remedia 
amoris  and  the  Amoves.  The  simple  tale  of  intrigue,  or  the 
Ovidian  love-story,  which  these  titles  suggest,  consists  in  its 
primitive  form  of  a  very  meager  plot  in  which  the  lover  in  pur- 
suit of  a  woman,  be  she  maid,  wife,  or  widow  (or  none  of  these 
three),  attains  the  fulfilment  of  his  desires.  Thus  Ovid,  who  had 
set  down  nothing  more  than  simple  principles  of  intrigue  for  the 
satisfaction  of  purely  physical  desires,  logically  sketched  for 
future  times  the  outlines  of  the  "Ovidian  tale,"  in  which  a  man 
seeks  to  win  a  woman,  or  the  other  way  about,  by  following  pre- 
scribed rules. 

The  second  phase  of  the  influence  exerted  by  Ovid  is  the  more 
tangible,  direct  and  deliberate  kind  which  manifests  itself  in 
quotations  and  references,  in  copying  or  imitating  the  romantic 
and  novelistic  features  of  his  works,  notably  episodes  in  myths 
and  legends.  In  this  connection  the  Metamorphoses  and  the 
Heroides  occupy  the  first  place. 

At  the  outset  it  will  be  necessary  to  give  a  brief  resume  of 
the  position  and  influence  of  Ovid  during  the  first  centuries  of  his 
ascendency  in  the  Middle  Ages,  to  show  how  his  prestige  became 
established  in  the  face  of  great  opposition,  and  what  the  extent 
and  importance  of  that  prestige  were  when  it  reached  the  thresh- 
hold  of  the  Renascence.  Thereafter  it  will  be  easier  to  discover 
in  what  manner  he  entered  into  humanistic  culture,  and  by  what 
means  he  attained  the  eminence  which  shall  justify  the  claim  of 
this  little  book,  that  he  was  a  vital  force  and  a  factor  of  greater 
significance  in  the  literature  of  the  Renascence  than  has  hitherto 
been  recognized. 


1  The  popular  translation  of  Ars  amatoria  has  generally  been  "the  art 
of  love"  (el  arte  de  amar) ,  though  the  phrase  in  reality  means  "a  gram- 
mar of  love, ' '  being  a  book  of  principles  and  precepts. 


University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 


I 

The  Middle  Ages 
l 

THE  BEGINNINGS  OF  THE  STUDY  OF  OVID  AND  OF 
HIS  INFLUENCE  ON  MEDIAE!7 AL  LITERATURE 

.  No  evidence  of  any  systematic  study  of  the  works  of  Ovid 
during  the  early  centuries  of  the  Christian  era  has  hitherto  been 
found.  It  is  not  likely  that  he  was  ever  wholly  forgotten,  but  it 
seems  that  the  reading  of  his  poetry,  chiefly  the  Metamorphoses, 
was  of  a  very  casual  character,  and  limited  to  a  few  students  of 
the  classics,  widely  scattered  over  Europe.  The  reason  for  this 
is  not  far  to  seek :  for  even  if  the  writings  of  Ovid  had  been 
accessible  at  the  time,  it  is  logical  to  infer  that  open  reading  of 
them  would  not  have  been  countenanced  in  the  centers  of  learn- 
ing, in  the  convents  or  in  the  schools  conducted  by  the  priests 
and  monks.  These  institutions  were  dominated  entirely  by  a 
spirit  of  reaction  against  paganism,  its  philosophers  and  poets. 
This  opposition  or  hostility  in  the  very  vigor  of  its  inception, 
at  an  epoch  which  falls  between  the  passing  of  the  ancient  world 
and  the  rise  of  that  virile  spirit  of  the  young  Christian  society, 
is  well  attested,  for  it  was  carried  to  all  parts  of  Europe  by  that 
extraordinary  body  of  men,  the  monks  of  the  west.  The  sub- 
stance of  their  teaching  and  the  influence  of  their  example  may 
be  gathered  from  numerous  codes  of  rules  and  statutes  of  religious 
foundations,  from  their  accompanying  comments,  and  especially 
from  the  precepts  of  learned  men,  those  great  authorities  in  the 
young  Church,  such  as  Isidore  of  Seville,  whose  works  served  as 
school  manuals  during  the  Middle  Ages. 

The  chief  fountain-head,  however,  of  all  these  rules  and 
restrictions,  the  great  Benedict,  says  very  little  upon  this  subject ; 
his    injunction    leaves   much    to   be   inferred:    lectiones   sanctas 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  7 

libenter  audire  are  his  words.1  This  short  phrase,  however, 
inspired  many  lengthy  interpretations  among  his  commentators, 
and  all  are  to  the  effect  that  pagan  authors  in  general  must 
not  be  read.  For  example,  the  following  comments  (col.  328)  are 
of  interest:  Hie  autem  non  quaslibet  S.  Benedictus  monachis 
lectiones  permittit,  sed  sanctas,  hoc  est  sacram  Scripturam,  pas- 
siones  S.S.  martyrum,  vitas  et  collationes  Patrum,  etc.  Procul, 
ergo,  a  manibus  nostris  gentilium  libri,  procul  poetarum  aut 
philosophorum  fallaciae,  et  pote  quae  mentem  a  vera  beatitudine 
avertunt,  nisi  forte  ad  eorum  ineptias  confutandas,  et  ad  mysteria 
nostrae  fidei  confirmanda,  etc.  And  another  commentator2  says : 
quod  speetat  ad  paganorum  libros  cum  de  his  taceat  S.  Pater 
Benedictus.  signum  est  hanc  lectionem  ab  eo  minime  probari. 

An  equally  great  authority,  the  weight  of  whose  word  was  used 
against  the  classical  poets,  was  Saint  Augustine.  His  bitter  self- 
reproach  for  having  read  with  profound  sympathy  the  tragic 
story  of  Dido  may  be  found  in  his  Confessions?  and  reveals  his 
whole  attitude  toward  what  he  condemns  as  poetica  figmenta : 

Nam  utique  meliores,  quia  certiores  erant  primae  illae  litterae,  quibus 
fiebat  in  me,  et  factum  est,  et  habeo  illud  ut  et  legam  si  quid  scriptum 
invenio,  et  scribam  ipse  si  quid  volo,  quam  illae  quibus  tenere  cogebar 
Aeneae  nescio  cujus  errores,  oblitus  errorum  meorum;  et  plorare  Didonem 
mortuam,  quia  se  occidit  ob  amorem,  cum  interea  meipsum  in  his  a  te 
morientem,  Deus,  vita  mea,  siccis  oculis  ferrem  miserrimus.  .  .  .  Item, 
si  quaeram  quid  horum  majore  vitae  hujus  incommodo  quisque  oblivis- 
catur,  legere  et  scribere,  an  poetica  iUa  figmenta;  quis  non  videat  quid 
responsurus  sit,  qui  non  est  penitus  oblitus  sui?  Peccabam  ergo  puer 
cum  ilia '  inania  istis  utilioribus  amore  praeponebam,  vel  potius  ista 
oderam,  ilia  amabam.  Jamvero  unum  et  unum  duo,  duo  et  duo  quattuor, 
odiosa  cantio  mihi  erat;  et  dulcissimum  spectaculum  vanitatis  equus 
ligneus  plenus  armatis,  et  Trojae  incendium,  atque  ipsius  umbra  Creusae 
(Aeneid  II,  772). 

There  is  also  a  secret  charm  in  this  confession  which  allows 
Augustine  to  quote  half  verses  from  the  book  which  he  condemns, 
so  great  was  his  love  for  it. 


1  S.  P.  Benedicti  Eegula,  cum  commentariis,  in  vol.  66  of  Migne^ 
Patrologia  latina  (Paris,  1866);  cols.  215  ff.,  caput  iv,  no.  56. 

2  Patrologia,  vol.  103,  cap.  Iv  of  the  concordia  regularum,  col.  1177. 

a  Sancti  Aurelii  Augustini  opera  omnia,  etc.,  in  Migne,  Patrologia,  vols. 
32-47  (16  vols.),  cf.  vol.  1,  col.  670  ff.;  Confessionum  S.  Augustini  libri 
tredecim,  written  about  the  vear  400. 


8  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

The  injunctions  of  Augustine  are  of  interest  in  another  con- 
nection.   In  his  De  Symbolo*  (sermo  ad  catechumenos)  he  asks: 

Quid  nobis  ire  per  nrulta?  Breviter  admonendi  estis  quid  spernere, 
et  quid  diligere  debeatis.  Fugite,  dilectissimi.  spectacula,  fugite  caveas5 
turpissimas  diaboli,  ne  vos  viucula  teneant  maligni.  Sed  si  oblectandus 
est  animus,  et  spectare  delectat;  exhibet  vobis  saneta  mater  Ecclesia 
veneranda  ac  salubria  spectacula.  .  .  .  Amator  est  quispiam  circi?  Quid 
delectat  in  circo?  Aurigas  videre  certantes,  populos  insana  furia  anhel- 
antes.  .  .  .  Ista  est  omnis  delectatio,  clamare,  quia  vicit  quem  diabolus 
vicit;  exsultare  et  insultare,  quod  adversa  pars  perdiderit  equum,  cum 
is  qui  tali  spectaculo  delectatur,  vanum  perdiderit  animum.  .  .  .  Alius 
fortassis  theatri  amator  admonendus  sit,  quid  fugiat,  et  quo  delectetur: 
ac  sic  voluntatem  spectandi  non  perdat,  sed  mutet.  In  theatris  labes 
morum,  discere  turpia  audire  inhonesta,  videre  perniciosa.  Sed,  adjuvante 
Domino,  ea  ex  cordibus  vestris  firmiter  repellamus.  .  .  .  Nee  ampliitlieatri 
certamina  seducant  aut  pertrahant  christianum :  quo  quidem  tanto  avidius 
curritur,  quando  tardius  exhibetur.  Sed  etiam  ibi  quid  non  periculosum 
ingeritur  aspeetibus,  quid  non  cruentum?  etc. 

Augustine  therefore  warns  the  young  men  not  to  frequent  any 
spectacula,  whether  of  the  theater,  the  circus  or  the  amphitheater, 
and  he  fulminates  with  equal  vehemence  against  their  immorality 
and  their  dangers  to  the  true  faith  in  one  of  his  greatest  works, 
De  civitate  Dei  (I,  cap.  31-33).  The  depravity  and  profligacy 
of  Roman  society,  however,  which,  as  we  must  infer  from  the 
attack  of  Augustine,  were  very  great,  seem  to  have  held  their 
own  from  the  days  of  the  Emperor  Augustus,  if  we  are  to  judge 
from  the  evidence  of  a  book  whose  teaching,  though  in  striking 
contrast  with  that  of  Augustine,  points  the  same  lesson,  namely, 
the  Ars  Amatoria  of  Ovid.  This  Roman  poet  urges  the  young 
men  to  frequent  the  theaters  and  games  in  pursuit  of  the  very 
kind  of  life  which  the  great  Church  father  condemns.  'Seek 
the  crowded  squares, '  he  says : 

Et  fora  conveniunt — quis  credere  possit? — amori; 

Flammaque  in  arguto  saepe  reperta  foro.     (I,  79,  80). 


4  Vol.  6  of  opera  omnia,  caput  ii,  col.  638  ff. 

5  Cavea  theatri:  locus  theatri  sic  est  appellatus  quod  subsellis  ad 
spectatorum  consessum  apte  instructus  caveae  formam  quamdam  referebat. 
(Note).  In  de  consensu  Evangelistarum,  lib.  1,  no.  51,  Augustine  says: 
cadunt  theatra,  caveae  turpitudinum  et  publicae  professiones  flagitiorum. 
Cf.  Be  civitate  Dei  (written  413-426),  vol.  7,  col.  44. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  9 

'In  the  theaters  the  young  pleasure-seeker  may  find  his  game' : 

Sed  tu  praecipue  curvis  venare  theatris: 

Haec  loca  sunt  voto  fertiliora  tuo. 
Illic  invenies,  quod  ames,  quod  ludere  pqssis, 

Quodque  semel  tangas,  quodque  tenere  velis. 
Ut  redit  itque  frequens  longum  formica  per  agraen, 

Granifero  solitum  cum  vehit  ore  cibum, 
Aut  ut  apes  saltusque  suos  et  olentia  nactae 

Pascna  per  flores  et  thyma  summa  volant, 
Sic  ruit  in  celebres  cultissima  femina  ludos. 

Copia  judicium  saepe  morata  meumst. 
Spectatum  veniunt;  veniunt,  spectentur  ut  ipsae.     (89  ff.) 

The  circus  offers  further  occasions  for  worldly  amusement: 

Nee  te  nobilium  fugiat  certamen  equorum: 

Multa  capax  populi  commoda  Circus  habet. — 
Proximus  a  domina,  nullo  prohibente,  sedeto,  etc.    (135.) 

These  sharp  contrasts  between  the  injunctions  of  the  Church 
fathers,  such  as  Augustine's,  and  the  precepts  of  Ovid,  make  it 
certain  that  his  works  were  under  a  strict  ban. 

Hostility  to  the  classics  was  further  voiced  by  Gregory  the 
Great,  who  also  preached  the  benefits  to  be  derived  from  lectiones 
sanctae;  but  the  objections  are  perhaps  most  clearly  put  with 
regard  to  the  subject  in  hand,  by  Isidore  of  Seville,  in  his 
Sententiarum  libri  tres,  (de  summo  bono),6  and  may  be  found 
in  two  chapters:  III,  cap.  xii,  de  carnalibus  lectoribus  et 
haereticis,  and  cap.  xiii,  de  libris  gentilium,  in  the  latter  of  which 
he  says :  Ideo  prohibetur  Christianus  figmenta  legere  poetarum, 
quia  per  oblectamenta  inanium  fabularum  merit  em  excitant  ad 
incentiva  libidinum.     This  fits  Ovid,7  and  yet  Saint  Isidore  was 


sMigne:  Patrologia,  vol.  83,  col.  683  ff. 

7  1  have  before  me  an  old,  black-letter  edition:  De  summo  bono  Libri 
tres  Sancti  Isidori  hyspalensis  Episcopi  (Leipzig,  1493) ;  on  f .  liii,  verso, 
the  illuminated  initial  at  the  beginning  of  ch.  xiii  was  never  inserted, 
and  the  chapter  begins:  [  ]o  etc.,  in  libris,  which  may  have  read:  [Nas]o 
etc.,  in  libris  suis  venerem  impudicam  martemque  adulterum  deum 
appellare  voluerunt.  ut  persuaderent  mentes  hominum  quasi  deus  imitari 
malum,  ut  dum  libidinosa  persuasione  ad  intentionem  eorum  flagitia 
confidenter  committunt.  non  quasi  homines  perditos.  sed  quasi  celestes 
deos  imitari  vidiantur. — Judging  by  other  squares,  three  letters  are  miss- 
ing, and  while  [Mar]o  also  suggests  itself  two  reasons  may  be  given 
for    inserting   Ovid's    name    rather    than    Virgil's.      First,    Isidore    speaks 


10  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

well  enough  acquainted  with  that  poet  to  quote  him  (without 
naming  him)  several  times.  Are  we  not,  therefore,  to  infer  that 
his  training  had  included  the  reading  of  Ovid,  though  this  was 
so  little  in  accord  with  the  rules  which  he  later  set  down?  Per- 
haps his  manner  of  citing  him  (for  example,  the  Met.  IV,  64) 
Unde  et  vere  quidam  poetarum  gentilium  dixit  (Sent.  lib.  II, 
col.  631)  purposely  omits  the  poet's  name  put  of  regard  for  the 
young  monks  to  whom  his  words  were  directed. 

It  is  certain,  nevertheless,  that  in  spite  of  all  these  injunc- 

'  tions,  Ovid  was  never  wholly  neglected;  and  though  his  name 
does  not  appear  in  any  of  the  school  lists  of  the  regular  books 
of  the  curriculum  before  the  tenth  century,  his  works  must  have 
been  among  those  which  were  copied8  in  the  convents,  for  this 
was  a  task  specifically  recommended  by  various  fathers  of  the 
western  Church.  In  the  case  of  Ovid,  however,  it  is  clear  that 
his  admission  into  the  schools  during  the  early  Middle  Ages  was 
delayed  because  those  times  were  incapable  of  adapting  to  their 
view  the  ideas  of  a  poet  who  could  not  furnish  material  for  the 
contemporary  systems  of  philosophy  and  theology,  while  the 
general  prejudice  against  pagan  writers,  voiced  so  early  by 
Augustine,  and  incorporated  in  all  monastic  rules,  was  based 
upon  the  fear  that  the  influence  of  their  works  endangered  the 
soul's  welfare;   that  the   esthetic   elements   of   all  poetry   and 

•fiction   impressed  only  the   imagination   and   the  senses   to   the 

of  Virgil  several  times  with  respect,  mentions  him  more  commonly  as 
Vergilius,  and  also  calls  him  vates;  second,  the  above  passage  applies  far 
more  to  Ovid,  who  was  called  poeta  luxuriae  and  turpitudinis  doctor  by  his 
mediaeval  opponents,  and  who  took  pleasure  in  telling  several  times  the 
story  of  the  adultery  of  Venus  and  Vulcan's  trick  to  catch  her  and  Mars; 
cf.  Met.  IV,  167  ft*.,  Ars  amat.,  II,  559  ff.  This  may  be  the  passage  to 
which  Sandys  refers  when  he  says  that  according  to  Isidore  of  Seville 
Ovid  is  the  particular  pagan  poet  most  to  be  avoided;  cf.  J.  E.  Sandys, 
A  History  of  Classical  Scholarship,  from  the  sixth  century  B.C.  to  the  end  of 
the  Middle  Ages,  3  vols.,  (Cambridge,  1903-8),  vol.  1,  p.  614:. 

s  Manuscripts  of  the  Metamorphoses  go  back  as  far  as  the  tenth  cen- 
tury; cf.  Karl  Bartsch,  Albrecht  von  JIalhcrstadt  und  Ovid  im  Mittel- 
alter  (Quedlinburg  und  Leipzig,  1861),  Einleitung;  also  Comparetti: 
Vergil  in  the  Middle  Ages,  translated  by  E.  F.  M.  Benecke  (London, 
1895),  p.  86;  the  manuscripts  there  mentioned,  however,  cannot  be  very 
ancient;  although  an  attempt  to  lessen  the  evil  effects  of  Ovid's  poetry 
was  made  by  the  copyists  who  altered  his  verses,  the  fact  remains  that 
copies  of  his  work  were  made,  and  this  was  in  keeping  with  the  growing 
reputation  of  the  poet. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Eenascence  in  Spain  11 

detriment  of  the  spirit.  And  so  it  is  said  of  Alcuin:8  legerat 
juvenis  libros  antiqnornm  philosophormn,  Virgiliique  mendacia, 
quae  nolebat  jam  nee  andire,  nee  discipnlos  suos  legere,  sufficiunt, 
inqniens,  divini  poetae  vobis,  nee  egetis  lnxuriosa  sermon  is 
Virgilii  vos  pollni  faenndia.  What  must  have  been  his  opinion 
of  Ovid?  Alcuin 's  friend,  Theodulfus,  Bishop  of  Orleans,  does 
not,  however,  wholly  condemn  Ovid,  and  allows  us  to  draw  the 
conclusion  that  the  author  of  the  Metamorphoses  was  more  gener- 
ally read  than  the  negative  evidence  shows.  He  says10  de  libris 
quos  legere  solebam: 

Et  modo  Pompeium,  modo  te,  Donate,  legebam, 
Et  modo  Virgilium,  te  modo,  Naso  loquax; 
In  quorum  dietis  quanquam  sint  frivola  multa, 
Plurima   sub   falso  tegmine   vera   latent. 
Falsa   poetarum   stylus   affert,  vera   sophorum, 
Falsa  horum  in  verum  vertere  saepe  solent. 

Here  the  very  admission  that  under  a  false  exterior  some  truths 
are  concealed  points  to  the  change  that  was  to  take  place  in 
subsequent  centuries  in  the  attitude  toward  Ovid,  and  indicates 
'  that  the  tide  was  already  turning  as  early  as  the  ninth  century. 

Moreover,  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  during  the  eighth,  ninth 
and  tenth  centuries,  the  unique  prestige  of  Virgil11 — sufficiently 
great  among  all  classics  to  trouble  Alcuin — was  another  factor 
in  crowding  the  study  of  Ovid  into  the  background.12  Virgil  is 
the  great  pagan  writer  who  at  that  time  overshadowed  all  others 
in  the  schools.  But  it  is  noteworthy  that  his  ascendency,  which 
was  at  first  conducive  to  the  neglect  of  Ovid,  was  doubtless  also 
one  of  the  means  by  which  the  latter 's  name  was  revived,  and 
made,  from  the  eleventh  century,  an  influence  and  a  force  in 


o  Dr.  Ft.  Paulsen,  Geschichte  des  gelehrten  Unterrichts  auf  den  deutschen 
Schulen  etc.,  (2te  Auflage  Leipzig,  1896).  vol.  1,  p.  41;  also  Migne. 
Patrologia,  vol.  100,  Alcuini  opera  omnia,  vol.  1,  col.  37. 

10  Migne:  Patrologia,  vol.  105,  Opera  omnia  Theodulfi,  carmina,  lib. 
iv,  col.  331. 

11  Cf.  Comparetti,  op.  cit.,  chapters  VI  ft". 

12  Cf.  Martin  Schanz,  Geschichte  der  Bomischen  Litteratur  bis  sum 
Gesetzgebungswerlc  des  Kaisers  Justinian  (2te  Auflage  Miinchen,  1899), 
2ter  Teil,  lste  Halfte,  p.  237,  with  bibliography,  p.  238. 


12  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.4 

literature.13  This  is  clear  from  the  fact  that  the  reputation  of 
Ovid  gradually  took  color  from  that  of  Virgil  when  it  entered 
into  popular  tradition  connected  with  certain  legends  which  had 
once  been  Virgil's  exclusive  privilege.    As  was  the  case  with  the 

(  latter,  mediaeval  vitae  of  Ovid  make  out  that  he  was  a  Christian 
who  had  written  his  works  with  a  moral  purpose  ;14  in  the 
popular  imagination  he  even  came  to  be  considered  a  wise  man 
who  helped  the  king  of  Naples  in  formulating  laws;  he  is  also 
made  out  to  have  been  a  traveler  and  prophet,  and  even  a 
preacher;  and  his  house  is  still  pointed  out  in  Solmona.15 

Up  to  this  point  we  have  considered  the  influences  which  had 
prevented  a  thoroughgoing  revival  of  Ovid.  The  next  step  is 
therefore  to  take  up  the  beginnings,  the  growth  and  spread  of 
his  reputation  during  the  Middle  Ages.  As  early  as  the  eighth 
century  he  was  well  known  at  the  court  of  Charlemagne ;  his 
works  were  studied  by  the  learned  and  exerted  influence  on  the 

( Latin  poets  of  the  Carlovingian  epoch.16  His  name  does  not  yet 
appear  on  the  lists  of  school  books,17  but  from  that  time  forth 
evidence  of  acquaintance  with  his  poetry  continues  to  grow ;  before 

"the  end  of  the  twelfth  century  his  fame  was  established,  and  the 
authority  of  his  writings  had  been  widely  accepted  not  only 
among  poets  who  wrote  in  Latin. 1S  but  also  in  centers  of  culture 
dominated  by  the  aristocratic   circles,   among  the   Troubadours 


13  Cf.  Lndwig  Traube,  Forlesungen  unci  Abhandlungen,  herausgegeben 
von  Franz  Boll:  Einleitung  in  die  Lateinische  Philologie  des  Mittelalters, 
herausgegeben  von  Paul  Lehmann  (Miinchen,  1911),  II,  p.  113. 

14  Sedlmaver,  ' '  Beitrage  zur  Geschichte  der  Ovidstudien  im  Mittel- 
alter,''  Wiener  Studien,  VI  (1884),  p.  142  ff. 

i5  Cf.  A.  de  Xino:  Ovidio  nella  tradizione  popolare  di  Sulmona  (Casal- 
bordino,  1886).  p.  21;  Ovid  was  also  held  to  be  a  magician,  merchant, 
prophet,  preacher  and  "une  sorte  de  paladin  et  un  grand  saint."  Cf. 
Hippolyte  Delahaye,  Les  Legendes  hagiographiques  (Bruxelles,  1906),  p.  22. 

is  Bartsch,  Albreclit  von  Ralberstadt,  Introduction;  also  Gervinus, 
Geschichte  der  dcutschen  Bichtung,  (ed.  5;  Leipzig,  1872)  I,  p.  467. 

17  Cf.  Manitius,  "  Philologisches  aus  alten  Bibliotheks-Katalogen  bis 
1300,"  Hheinisches  Museum  fiir  Philologie,  vol.  47.  Erganzungsheft  (Frank- 
furt, 1892;,  p.  31  ff.  Ovid  appears  on  French  school-lists  of  books  in  the 
twelfth  century;  in  Germany  he  may  be  found  in  the  eleventh,  and  he 
was  known  there  before  that  time. 

is  Cf.  Groeber's  Grundriss,  II.  1:  Ovid's  influence  on  Latin  literature 
of  the  Middle  Ages,  chiefly  the  Metamorphoses  and  Heroides  during  the 
twelfth  century,  pp.  262,  411. 


]913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  13 

and  Minnesaenger,  and  the  poets  of  northern  France.  The  result 
was  that  a  reaction  in  favor  of  Ovid  was  experienced  in  the 
schools  which  had  taken  up  classical  studies  with  renewed  vigor 
after  the  Carlovingian  epoch,  and  he  was  thus  bound  to  regain 
his  rank  among  the  poets  of  the  Augustan  era.  Let  us  briefly 
examine  the  steps  in  the  establishment  of  his  prestige. 

By  the  end  of  the  eleventh  century  effective  opposition  to  the 
study  of  Ovid  had  come  to  an  end,19  and  another  factor  which 
materially  assisted  the  rise  of  his  influence  must  be  taken  into 
account :  this  was  the  allegorical  interpretation  which  was  applied 
»to  his  works,  notably  the  Metamorphoses.  Such  a  method,  how- 
ever, was  not  new  at  the  time,  for  it  may  be  found  in  some  of 
the  pagan  writers  of  the  early  Christian  era,20  who  had  already 
lost  the  genuine  understanding  of  Ovid  as  well  as  of  other  classics. 
Especially  the  mythology  of  the  ancients  had  gradually  come  to 
be  regarded  as  symbolical,  thus  admitting  comparison  with  sym- 
bolical tales  employed  in  Christian  teaching;  and  the  Metamor- 
phoses, looked  upon  as  an  allegory  of  the  mysteries  of  the  true 
Faith,  could  be  read  in  school  and  convent  without  prejudice  to 
the  regular  theological  studies.  In  this  way  hidden  meanings 
"were  found  in  Ovid,  giving  him,  even  with  the  Church,  a  certain 
unwarranted  and  illogical  authority,  which  was  to  last  through 
the  Renascence.  Thus  the  many  gods  of  the  ancients  became 
demons,  while  the  personae  of  the  myths  were  compared  with 
characters  in  the  Bible  or  other  sacred  writings.  The  moral  of 
each  tale,  on  the  other  hand,  was  carefully  explained,  making 


is  This  opposition  still  finds  occasional  utterance  in  men  like  Roger 
Bacon  (thirteenth  century) :  Fr.  Rogeri  Bacon  opera  quaedam  hactenus 
inedita  vol.  1,  edited  by  J.  S.  Brewer  (London,  1859):  Opus  tertium, 
cap.  xv,  p.  54:  Et  Boetius  in  libro  de  Disciplina  Scolarium  docet  quod 
pueri  primo  instruendi  sunt  in  libris  Senecae;  et  Beda  exponit  quod  hoc 
dicit  quia  primo  sunt  docendi  in  moribus,  quia  libri  Senecae  sunt  morales. 
Sed  non  sic  instruuntur,  sed  in  fabulis  et  insaniis  Ovidianis  et  caeterorum 
poetarum,  ubi  omnes  errores  in  fide  et  moribus  proponuntur. — This  recalls 
the  opinions  of  Isidore  of  Seville  and  of  Alcuin. — Vicentius  Bellovacensis 
(d.  1264):  Bibliotheca  mundi,  Speculum  historiale,  6,  106-122,  after  men- 
tioning Ovid's  work  says:  de  his  omnibus  panca  eleganter  dicta,  et  ea 
praecipue  que  moralia  videntur,  excerpere  et  his  inserere  volui. 

20  Wicksteed  and  Gardner,  Dante  and  Giovanni  del  Virgilio  (West- 
minster, 1902),  App.  I,  Del  Virgilio 's  treatise  on  Ovid's  Metamorphoses, 
p.  314. 


14  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology      [Vol.  4 

Daphne  and  the  laurel,  for  example,  the  symbols  of  chastity, 
Midas,  of  unsatiable  avarice ;  Actaeon,  devoured  by  his  dogs, 
pictured  self-indulgent,  prodigal  young  men  consumed  by  their 
own  vices,  while  the  story  of  Proteus,  who  could  assume  any  shape, 
represents  the  unstable  condition  of  our  minds,  showing  how  we 
desire  one  thing,  and  hate  another,  how  through  haughtiness  and 
pride  we  change  into  lions,  through  treachery  into  foxes,  each 
vice  being  represented  by  some  animal.  The  preface  of  a  six- 
teenth century  translation  of  the  Metamorphoses-1  into  Spanish 
adds  naively  that  the  prudent  reader,  endowed  with  clear  judg- 
ment, will  easily  detect  the  moral  of  all  these  tales.  This  kind 
of  sophistry  in  the  interpretation  of  the  poetry  of  Ovid  went 
even  farther,  and  led  commentators  to  declare  the  Heroides  to 

i  be  a  defense  of  amor  licitus.  Whether  this  method  of  finding 
hidden  meanings  was  always  sincere  or  not,  is  not  evident  in 
every  case,  and  is  unimportant  to  the  study  of  the  Renascence, 
but  it  made  opposition  to  Ovid's  growing  popularity  more  and 
more  ineffective. 

In  considering  the  nature  of  Ovid's  influence  during  the 
Middle  Ages,  we  find  it  exerted  in  different  fields.  His  first  and 
most  direct  influence  would  be  found  in  the  study  of  Latin  in  the 
schools,  where  he  is  used  as  an  instrument  in  the  teaching  of 

i  rhetoric.  Coupled  with  this  would  be  the  indebtedness  of  poets 
who  wrote  in  Latin  and  imitated  the  style  and  expression  of 
Ovid  and  other  great  classics,  notably  Virgil  and  Horace.  But 
,far  more  important  is  the  source  of  inspiration  which  the  works 
of  Ovid  had  become  to  poets  who  wrote  in  their  vernacular; 
for  as  soon  as  they  had  accepted  his  authority,  as  soon 
as  they  had  begun  to  translate  his  works,  to  imitate  his  manner, 
to  borrow  his  ideas  or  his  material  for  fiction,  the  growth  and 


21  Bustamante 's  translation:  cf.  Bibliographical  Appendix  I,  p.  246;  cf. 
also  Philosophia  Secreta:  Donde  debaxo  de  historias  fabulosas,  se  con- 
tiene  mucha  doctrina  prouechosa  a  todos  estudios.  Con  el  origen  de  los 
Idolos,  o  Dioses  de  la  gentilidad.  Es  materia  muy  necessaria  para  enten- 
der  Poetas  y  Historiadores.  Ordenado  por  el  Bachiller  loan  Perez  de 
Moya,  etc.,  (Jaragoqa,  1599.  It  seems  incredible  that  this  book  of  almost 
a  thousand  pages,  attempting  to  interpret  mythological  names,  chiefly 
from  Ovid,  in  the  traditional  way,  should  have  seen  the  light  at  so 
recent  a  date. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  15 

duration  of  an  Ovid  tradition  were  assured.  This  can  be  said 
I  to  have  taken  place  during  the  twelfth  and  thirteenth  centuries. 
If,  therefore,  we  define  the  position  of  Ovid  during  those  cen- 
turies, we  may  be  permitted  for  the  sake  of  clearness  to  say 
that  he  was  read  for  the  benefit  to  be  derived  from  his  language, 
for  the  material  borrowed  from  his  mythological  tales  in  plots 
and  the  like,  and  for  the  romantic  and  amatory  features  of  his 
works  in  general,  expressed  in  certain  peculiar  principles  and 
doctrines  of  love.  This  lays  down  in  three  channels  currents  of 
influence  of  which  we  do  not  lose  the  traces  through  the  sixteenth 
and  seventeenth  centuries. 

Under  the  first  head  it  would  be  necessary  to  treat  the  study 
of  Ovid  chiefly  in  the  academic  world  of  the  universities,  but  this 
does  not  concern  us  directly  in  our  present  investigations.  The 
influence  of  the  Latin  poet  as  such,  in  so  far  as  he  formed  a  part 
of  the  classical  education  of  most  of  the  writers  to  be  consid- 
ered hereafter,  is,  naturally,  never  to  be  left  wholly  out  of  con- 
sideration ;  it  will  be  treated,  however,  only  as  a  force  which 
supported  and  strengthened  the  popularized  Ovid  who  became 
known  chiefly  through  translations  and  paraphrases,  and  who 
forms  a  part  of  that  inherited  mediaeval  tradition  which  survived 
in  the  realm  of  poetry  and  fiction  through  the  period  of  the 
Eenascence. 

The  second  head  considers  Ovid  as  a  teller  of  tales,  and 
embraces,  generally  speaking,  all  of  the  mythological  stories 
scattered  through  his  works,  and,  more  specifically,  those  con- 
tained in  his  Metamorphoses.  Innumerable  allusions  to  these 
myths  can  be  found  in  the  verses  of  the  poets  during  the  Middle 
Ages,  and  some  have  already  been  pointed  out  by  various 
scholars  as  evidence  of  the  wide-spread  popularity  of  Ovid  in 
Italy,  Germany  and  France.  But  the  Metamorphoses  also 
inspired  translations  in  the  form  of  long  poetic  versions,  some 
of  which  preserved  the  ancient  character  of  the  work  so  far  as 
this  was  possible  in  the  Middle  Ages,  while  others  emphasized 
the  symbolical  or  allegorical  nature  of  the  tales  mentioned  above. 
A  typical  example  of  the  first  kind  of  translation  is  the  version 


16  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

by  Albrecht  von  Halberstadt  (13th  century)  preserved  in  a 
modernized  form  of  the  sixteenth  century,22  out  of  which  unfor- 
tunately, the  mediaeval  German  version  cannot  be  satisfactorily 
restored.  An  effort  on  the  part  of  Karl  Bartsch  to  accomplish 
this  proved  unsuccessful,  as  was  shown  by  the  subsequent  dis- 
covery of  a  small  fragment  of  the  original  version,  but  Bartsch 's 
preface  to  his  edition,  setting  forth  the  influence  of  Ovid  during 
the  Middle  Ages,  was  epoch-making,  and  has  pointed  the  way  to 
many  a  study  in  Ovid  since  his  day.  Of  allegorical  versions 
the  best  example  is  without  doubt  a  French  translation  made  near 
the  end  of  the  thirteenth  century,  known  as  les  Metamorphoses 
moralisees.  This  is  by  far  the  most  extensive  work  based  upon 
Ovid,  comprising  some  seventy  thousand  verses  and  attempting 
to  interpret  the  various  myths  of  antiquity  in  several  ways,  by 
giving  their  moral,  historical  and  theological  bearing.  The  iden- 
tity of  the  author  has  not  been  definitely  determined,  nor  has 
anyone  hitherto  attempted  the  herculean  task  of  editing  the  trans- 
lation entire.  But  C.  De  Boer,23  taking  the  preliminary  studies 
of  Gaston  Paris  as  a  starting  point,24  has  connected  the  work  in 
a  very  interesting  way  with  the  name  of  Chretien  de  Troyes, 
announcing  at  the  same  time  the  preparation  of  a  critical  edition 
of  the  whole  Metamorphoses  moralisees  hitherto  attributed  to  an 
unknown  Chretien  Lesouais. 


22  Bartsch,  Albrecht  von  Halberstadt,  Introduction:  on  the  Heroides 
and  imitations,  pp.  xvi-xxxvi;  on  the  Ars  amatoria,  pp.  xxxvii-xlii;  on 
the  Metamorphoses,  pp.  xliii-cxxvii.  On  a  fragment  of  Albrecht  von  Hal- 
berstadt, cf.  Germania,  vol.  10,  p.  237,  (Paul's  Grundriss);  Die  Metamor- 
phosen-Verdeutschung  Albrechts  von  Halberstadt,  von  Otto  Runge  (Ber- 
lin, 1908),  Palaestra,  vol.  73;  also  Georg  Wickrams  Werlce:  herausgegeben 
von  Joh.  Bolte,  Vorwort,  in  vol.  241  of  Litterarisches  Verein  in  Stuttgart 
(Tubingen,  1906);  and  Ovids  Ars  amatoria  in  der  ersten  deutschen  iiber- 
setzung,  by  E.  Hemplinger   (Leipzig,  1904). 

23  Philomena,  Conte  raconte  d 'apres  Ovide  par  Chretien  de  Troyes,  par 
C.  De  Boer  (Paris,  1909);  cf.  also  his  Pyrame  et  Thisbe,  texte  normand 
du  xiie  siecle.  Modern  Language  Notes,  vol.  27,  no.  7,  p.  233;  and  Romania, 
no.  165,  Janvier,  1913,  p.  76:  Sur  un  Fragment  public  de  I'Ovide  Moralise. 

24  Gaston  Paris,  in  Histoire  Litteraire  de  la  France,  tome  29  (Paris, 
1885),  p.  455  ff. :  Chretien  Legouais  et  autres  traducteurs  ou  imitateurs 
d 'Ovide;  cf.  also  his  La  Litterature  francaise  au  Moyen  Age,  2me  edition 
(Paris,  1890),  p.  79;  Groeber,  Grundriss,  IE,  1,  pp.  592,  709,  745, "et  al.  L. 
Sudre,  Publii  Ovidii  Xasonis  Metamorphoseon  libros  quomodo  nostrates 
medii  aevi  poetae  imitati  interpretatique  sint  (Paris,  1893):  a  brief  sum- 
mary of  studies  in  Ovid,  chiefly  the  Metamorphoses,  during  the  Middle 
Ages  in  Prance. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  17 

The  allegorical  interpretation  of  Ovid's  myths,  with  the 
emphasis  laid  upon  the  moral  lesson  conveyed  by  every  tale, 
continued  in  vogue  for  several  centuries,  as  has  been  stated,  and 
can  be  found  in  translations  made  in  the  Renascence,  in  the  form 
of  prefaces  or  appendices,  which  were  probably  never  read.  The 
latter  were  no  doubt  a  concession  to  the  official  censors  who  had 
to  grant  their  imprimatur  to  books  which,  if  sanely  judged,  ought 
never  to  have  received  the  unequivocal  approval  of  the  guardians 
of  public  morals.  Be  this  as  it  may,  Christian  allegory  and 
classical  myth  became  more  and  more  irreconcilable,  not  only 
on  account  of  sounder  acquaintance  with  the  spirit  of  antiquity, 
but  because  the  search  for  a  moral  was  not  in  keeping  with  the 
character  of  genuine  fiction  of  the  Renascence.25  There  can  be 
no  doubt  that  people  were  now  reading  for  amusement  (entre- 
tenimiento) ,  and  the  foremost  authority  in  fiction  of  the  time, 
Cervantes,  fails  to  persuade  us  that  his  novelas,  for  example,  were 
meant  to  convey  a  lesson  to  the  reader.  Of  them  he  says :  ' '  Heles 
dado  el  nombre  de  exemplares,  y  si  bien  lo  miras,  no  hay  ninguna 
de  quien  no  se  pueda  sacar  un  exemplo  provechoso ;  y  si  no  fuera 
por  no  alargar  este  sujeto,  quiza  te  mostrara  el  sabroso  y  honesto 
fruto  que  se  podria  sacar,  asi  de  todas  juntas,  como  de  cada  una 
de  por  si. ' '  But  no  one  who  reads  these  immortal  novels  is  aware 
of  the  fact  that  they  point  a  prominent  moral,  and  Cervantes 
himself  adds  with  naive  inconsistency  that  his  purpose  (intent o) 
was  to  have  the  readers  amuse  themselves  (entretenerse)  though 
quite  naturally  "without  prejudice  to  body  or  soul"  (sin  dano 
del  alma  ni  del  cuerpo).  No  one  ever  wrote  more  as  a  keen 
observer,  as  a  master  of  invention  (it  is  his  own  phrase),  and  less 
as  a  mere  sermonizer. 

To  return  to  Ovid's  mythological  tales,  it  will  suffice  to  say 
here  that  their  influence  was  from  the  beginning  more  tangible 
and  less  subtile  than  that  of  his  erotic  works,  and  when  we  reach 
the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries  it  will  be  evident  that 


25  Cf.  Eabelais,  Prologue  to  Gargantua,  edition  critique  publiee  par 
Abel  Lefranc  etc.,  vol.  1  (Paris,  1912),  p.  12  ff.,  where  he  ridicules  alt 
allegorical  interpretation  of  the  classics,  because  it  was  unquestionably 
no  longer  in  keeping  with  the  spirit  of  his  own  times. 


18  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

such  a  book  as  the  Metamorphoses  in  the  garb  of  the  Renascence 
readily  takes  its  place  with  the  prose  fiction  of  that  epoch.  Such 
tales  as  those  of  Pyraraus  and  Thisbe,  Jason  and  Medea,  Caunus 
and  Byblis,  Mars  and  Venus,  Daedalus,  Hercules,  Narcissus,  Or- 
pheus, Polyphemus,  Phaethon,  the  whole  history  of  Troy  and  all 
its  characters  together  with  many  others  had  become  widely 
known  through  repetitions  and  borrowings  from  the  twelfth  cen- 
tury on,  and  easily  lent  themselves  to  the  spirit  of  fiction  which 
developed  in  the  fifteenth  century.  Only  the  moral  formerly 
deduced  from  the  tale  became  gratuitous;  to  the  Renascence 
reader  the  allegory,  though  still  dragged  in  at  times,  could  have 
little  or  no  meaning.  This  will  become  clear  when  we  come  to 
speak  of  Ovid  retold. 

One  more  example  of  his  influence  under  the  second  head, 
namely,  Ovid  as  a  descriptive  and  narrative  poet,  is  indis- 
pensable here  and  will  serve  to  show  how  the  Metamorphoses 
exerted  influence  in  the  Middle  Ages;  it  will  furnish  an 
illustration  in  a  new  field  of  the  manner  of  borrowing  from  Ovid 
at  the  beginning  of  his  literary  ascendency.  We  shall  then  leave 
his  mythological  tales  until  we  get  to  the  eve  of  the  Renascence, 
and  take  up  the  influence  of  the  Ars  amatoria,  the  Remedia 
amoris  and  the  Amores.  Our  example  is  from  Spanish  litera- 
ture, El  Libro  de  Alixandre,  one  of  the  most  interesting  speci- 
mens, as  far  as  our  subject  is  concerned,  of  Spain's  poetic  litera- 
ture of  the  thirteenth  century,26  for  it  shows  very  distinct  indebt- 
edness to  Ovid.  Whether  the  influence  exerted  by  the  Metamor- 
phoses was  direct  or  through  some  intermediate  source  is  not 
always  clear,  but  in  several  cases  it  seems  to  have  been  the  former. 
The  Alixandre  thus  represents  the  only  case,  as  far  as  I  am  aware, 

26  Alfonso  X,  el  Sabio,  in  his  Grande  e  General  Estoria  has  included 
much  of  the  Metamorphoses;  unfortunately  this  work  as  a  whole  remains 
unedited.  An  interesting  comparison  can  be  drawn  between  Dido 's 
letter  to  Aeneas,  as  given  in  Alfonso's  Primera  Cronica  general  de  Espana 
(Ramon  Menendez  Pidal 's  edition,  Madrid,  1906),  ch.  59,  and  the  well- 
known  letter  in  the  Heroides  (cf.  Appendix  II) ;  cf.  also  Jose  Amador 
de  los  Rios,  Historia  critica  de  la  literatura  espanola  (Madrid,  1861-65), 
(who  refers  to  the  Ira  Parte,  lib.  viii,  cap.  vii  and  lib.  vi,  cap.  xxvi  of 
the  Grande  e  General  Estoria),  vol.  Ill,  p.  603;  Comparetti,  op.  cit.,  p. 
244.  In  the  Libro  de  los  Enxemplos  (Biblioteca  de  Autores  Espaiioles) 
Escritores  en  prosa  anteriores  al  siglo  xv,  p.  542,  may  be  found  a  confused, 
mediaeval  version  of  the  story  of  Medusa  with  an  allegorical  interpre- 
tation. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  .  19 

of  borrowing  from  Ovid  on  the  part  of  Spanish  epic  poetry.  That 
the  author  of  the  Libro  de  Alixandre  was  acquainted  with  the 
Latin  poet  may  be  inferred  from  such  a  passage  as  the  following. 
I  quote  from  the  text  edited  by  Morel-Fatio  in  the  Gesellschaft 
fur  Romanische  Literatur,  volume  10,  (Dresden  1906).  Juno  is 
making  her  plea  to  Paris  about  to  pronounce  his  famous  judg- 
ment : 

De  mi  beldat  non  quiero  luenga  mente  contar, 
lo  que  paresc.e  por  ojo  non  ha  menester  prouar, 
la  my  beldat  a  muchos  fizo  e  fas  lasrar, 
desto  puedo,  sy  mandas,  muchos  testigos  dar. 

Porque   es   tan   fermosa   la  rrueda  del   pauon 

fue   a   mi   apre^iada   por   atal   rrazon, 

esto  yase  en  libro  que  escriuio  Nason  ; 

deuo  yo  con  la  mancana  yr  a  toda  sason.    (351-2,  p.  441.) 

Now  in  the  Ars  amatoria  allusions  to  the  bird  of  Juno  (el  pavon) 
and  the  Judgment  of  Paris  are  found  together  in  the  same  pas- 
sage as  here : 

Nam  cur  in  Phrygiis  Iunonem  et  Pallada  silvis 

Nunc  quoque  iudicium  non  tenuisse  pudet? 
Laudatas  ostendit  avis  Iunonia  pennas: 
Si  tacitus  spectes,   ilia  recondit  opes. 

—(I,  625-8;  cf.  also  I,  247,  683-4;  and  Bern.  am.  711-2.) 

The  passage  referred  to  also  recalls  one  which  tells  of  the  trans- 
fer of  the  hundred  eyes  of  Argus  to  the  peacock 's  tail : 

Arge,  iaces;   quodque  in   tot  lumina  lumen  habebas, 

Exstmctum   est,   centumque   oculos   nox   occupat   una. 

Excipit  hos  volucrisque  suae  Saturnia  pennis 

Collocat,  et  gemmis  caudam  stellantibus  implet.    (Met.  I,  720-3.) 

The  following  descriptions  in  el  Libro  de  Alixandre  are  after  the 
classical  manner,  and  resemble  our  extracts  from  Ovid.  The  first 
depicts  the  shield  of  Alexander : 

La  obra  del  escudo  vos  sabre  bien  contar: 

ally  era  debuxada  la  tierra  e  el  mar, 

los  Eegnos  &  las  villas,  las  aguas  de  prestar, 

cascuno  con  sus  titulos  por  mellor  deuisar.  etc.    (95.) 

This  recalls  the  shield  of  Achilles  upon  which  could  be  seen 
Oceanum  et  terras,  cumque  alto  sidera  coelo, 
Pleiadasque   Hyadasque   immunemque   aequoris   Arcton, 
[Diversasque  urbes]  nitidumque  Orionis  ensem.  (Met.  XIII,  292-5.) 


20  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Other  descriptions  in  the  Libro  de  Alixandre  repeat  this  classical 
manner :  in  stanzas  971  ff .,  there  is  a  picture  of  the  shield  of 
Darius,  and  in  1219  ff.,  a  tomb  chiseled  by  Apelles,  "el  ebreo, 
vn  maestro  contado. "  The  second  extract,  though  inaccurately 
rendered,  is  the  prophecy  of  Calchas : 

Cataron  por  agueros,  ouieron  a  veyer 
que  ante  de  dies  anos  non  la  podrien  prender 
e  de  aqui  el  con§eio  afio  y  (dies?)  avria  a  yazer, 
(Fasta  el  onzeno  liy  aurien  a  iazer,  381  ed.  Rivad.) 
mas  serie  mucha  sangre  primero  a  uerter. 

Colcas,   vn   ahorero,   que   sabie  bien   catar, 
vio   vna   serpiente   con  dos  aguilas  lidiar, 
auie  dos  filluelos,  querie   gelos  matar, 
mas  non  les  le  pudieron  en  cabo   enparar. 

Deque  mato  los  fillos  torno  en  los  parientes 
e  ouolos  a  entranbos  a  degollar  a  dientes: 
estomje   dixo   Colcas   a   las   grecjscas   gentes, 
"auedes  grant  aguero,   meted  en  todo   mientes. 

A  los  griegos  demuestra  la  sierpe  Rauiosa, 

las  aguilas  los  troyanos  que  son  gent  delitjiosa, 

la   cueta   son  los   anos   de   la  <jerca  lasrosa, 

prouaredes  que  es  esto  muy  verdadera  cosa. "    (389-92.) 

The  twelfth  book  of  Metamorphoses  opens  with  the  Greeks  at 
Aulis,  where  a  sacrifice  to  Jupiter  is  disturbed  by  a  strange  por- 
tent: 

Hie  patrio  de  more  Iovi  cum  sacra  parassent, 
Ut  vetus  accensis  ineanduit  ignibus  ara, 
Serpere   caeruleum  Danai  videre  draconem 
In  platanum,  coeptis  quae  stabat  proxima  sacris. 
Nidus  erat  volucrum  bis  quattuor  arbore  summa, 
Quas  simul  et  matrem  circum  sua  damna  volantem 
Corripuit  serpens,  avidaque  recondidit  alvo. 
Obstupuere  omnes.     At  veri  providus  augur 
Thestorides:  Vincemus,  ait;  gaudete,  Pelasgi. 
Troja  cadet,  sed  erit  nostri  mora  longa  laboris. 
Atque  novem  volucres  in  belli  digerit  annos. 

The  Libro  de  Alixandre  describes  the  chariot  of  Darius  as  follows : 

En  medio  yua  Dario,  vn  cuerpo  tan  precjioso, 
semeja  prophan  tanto  era  de  sabroso; 
el  carro  en  que  yua  tanto  era  de  fermoso 
que  qui  lo  podie  veyer  tenies  por  venturoso. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  21 

Los  rrayos  eran  de  oro  fechos  a  grant  lauor, 
las  rruedas  eso  mismo  dauan  grant  rresplandor, 
el  axo  de  fina  plata  que  cantase  meior, 
el  ventril  de  cypres  por  dar  buena  olor. 

El  cabegon  del  carro  nol  tengades  por  vil, 

era  todo  ondado  de  muy  buen  marfil, 

todo  era  listado  de  obra  de  grafil, 

de  piedras  de  grant  presqio  auie  mas  de  mill. 

Las  puntas  de  los  rrayos  eran  bien  caleadas, 
de  bestiones  bien  fechos,  de  piedras  pre^iadas, 
eran  tan  Sotil  ment  todas  engastonadas, 
Semejauan   que  eran  en  vno  ajuntadas. 

Digamos  vos  del  yugo,  sy  quiere  de  la  lasada, 

obra  era  greqisca  nueua  mente  fallada,  etc.    (837  ff.) 

Phaethon,  before  attempting  his  mad  flight,  inspects  the  chariot 

of  the  Sun,  which  is  described  in  the  following  passage : 

Ergo   qua   licuit,   genitor  cunctatus,   ad   altos 

Deducit  iuvenem,  Vulcania  munera,  currus. 

Aureus  axis  erat,  temo  aureus,  aurea  summae 

Curvatura  rotae,  radiorum  argenteus  ordo. 

Per  iuga  chrysolithi  positaeque  ex  ordine  gemmae 

Clara  repercusso  reddebant  lumina  Phoebo.    (Met.  II,  105-10.) 

The  parts  of  the  chariots  described  in  these  two  passages  are 
therefore  practically  the  same. 

But  another  passage  in  the  Libro  de  Alixandre  is  reminiscent 
of  Ovid ;  it  is  the  description  of  the  palace  of  Porus  which  recalls 
the  palace  of  the  Sun  depicted  in  the  episode  of  Phaethon,  just 
mentioned.     The  Spanish  version  reads : 

La  obra  del  palacio  non  es  de  oluidar, 
mager  non  la  podamos  digna  mente  contar, 
por  que  mucho  queramos  la  verdat  alabar 
avn  avran  por  eso  algunos  a  dubdar. 

Las  puertas  eran  todas  de  vn  marfil  natural, 
blancas   e  rreluzientes   como   vn   fin  cristal, 
los  entalles  sotiles,  bien  alto  el  poyal, 
casa  era  de  Eey  mas  bien  era  Real. 

Quatroqientas  colupnes  auie  en  esas  casas, 

todas  de  oro  fino  japiteles  e  basas, 

non  serien  plus  luzientes  sy  fuesen  biuas  brasas, 

ca  eran  bien  bronidas,  planas  e  bien  rrasas.    (2098  ff.) 


22  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Then  follow  several  other  stanzas  with  elaborate  descriptions, 
and  though  the  immediate  source  may  not  be  Ovid  (cf.  Romania, 
4,  p.  77),  the  following  passage  deserves  consideration  because 
the  Spanish  poet  may  have  been  influenced  by  it : 

Eegia  Solis  erat  sublimibus  alta  columnis. 

Clara  mieante  auro   flammasque   imitante   pyropo: 

Cuius  ebur  nitidum  fastigia  summa  tegebat, 

Argenti  bifores   radiabant   luniine   valvae. 

Materiam   superabat    opus;    nam   Muleiber   illic 

Aequora    caelarat   medias    cingentia   terras, 

Terrarumque  orbem,  coelumque,  quod  imminet  orbi.    (II,  1-7.) 

More  parallels  between  the  Libro  de  Alixandre  and  Ovid  could 
no  doubt  be  adduced,  but  they  would  be  unsatisfactory  without 
a  careful  collation  of  the  manuscripts  of  the  Spanish  poem,  and 
that  would  carry  me  beyond  the  scope  of  my  subject.  Yet  the 
influence  of  Ovid  seems  apparent  from  the  above,  and  is  limited 
to  the  Metamorphoses,  for  such  verses  as 

Sobre  todo  te  guarda  de  amor  de  mugeres. 

Desque   se   buelue   el   ome   en   ellas   vna   vez 
sienpre  mas  va  ariedro  e  mas  pierde  su  pres, 
puede  perder  su  alma  e  dios  lo  aborres, 
puede  caher  en  grant  ocasion  tost  e  Eafes.    (52-3.) 

make  any  indebtedness  to  the  Ars  amatoria  unlikely.  To  the 
latter  we  now  return,  to  consider  under  the  last  of  the  three  heads 
mentioned  above  the  romantic  and  amatory  elements  in  Ovid's 
works  which  helped  to  formulate  widely  current  principles  and 
doctrines  of  love. 

In  dealing  with  the  influence  of  the  Ars  amatoria,  the  Remedia 
amoris  and  the  Amores,  the  beginnings  of  the  tradition  inherited 
by  subsequent  centuries  can  be  considered  briefly.  The  import- 
ance of  Ovid  as  a  master  in  the  principles  of  love  is  sufficiently 
evidenced  at  an  early  date  by  numerous  translations  of  his  erotic 
works,  beginning  with  the  twelfth  century.    Thus,  a  whole  series27 


27  Cf.  Gaston  Paris,  Histoire  litteraire  de  la  France,  vol.  29,  p.  455  ff. ; 
La  Litterature  frangaise  au  Moyen  Age  (Paris,  1890),  p.  151;  La  Poesie 
da  Moyen  Age,  premiere  serie  (Paris,  1895),  p.  189;  Groeber,  op.  cit.,  II, 
1,   709,   744,   860;    Maitre  Elie's   tjberarbeitung  der  altesten   franzosischen 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  23 

of  mediaeval  French  versions  of  the  Ars  amatoria  exists  and  has 
already  been  treated  extensively  by  Gaston  Paris,  who  does  ample 
justice  to  the  popularity  of  Ovid  during  that  epoch.  These 
translations  were  no  doubt  intended  to  interpret  that  ancient 
authoritative  preceptor  in  the  ways  of  love  for  the  benefit  of 
the  French  public.  At  all  events,  their  influence  must  be  taken 
into  account  in  connection  with  that  of  the  original  poems  which 
were  getting  to  be  more  and  more  widely  known.  Egidio  Bel- 
lorini,28  in  his  Note  sidle  traduzioni  italiane  dell'  Ars  amatoria  e 
dei  Remedia  amoris  d'Ovidio  anteriori  at  renascimento,  speaks  of 
three  translations  of  each  one  of  these  works  made  late  in  the 
Middle  Ages,  and  I  shall  have  occasion  to  speak  in  a  later  chapter 
of  a  few  others  made  in  the  Spanish  Peninsula  during  the  Re- 
nascence; I  have  found  none  there  of  an  earlier  period. 

In  the  twelfth  and  thirteenth  centuries  extensive  acquaintance 
with  the  amatory  works  of  Ovid  is  naturally  to  be  sought  first 
among  those  poets  on  whom  the  interdict  against  Ovid,  promul- 
gated especially  by  the  religious  orders,  had  no  hold.  These 
would  embrace  that  whole  galaxy  of  wandering  minstrels,  the 
Troubadours  and  the  Minnesaenger,  and  also  the  Trouveres  of 
the  north ;  and  no  doubt  influence  was  exerted  upon  all  these  in 
their  turn  by  the  homeless  friars,  by  antipapal  priests,  theologians 
and  clerks  who  recognized  no  superiors  nor.  rules,  and  who  were 
well  versed  in  much  of  the  pagan  literature  of  which  the  best 
churchmen  disapproved.  It  was  therefore  logical  that  those  poets 
whose  chief  theme  was  love  should  find  in  Ovid's  experiences  and 
precepts  in  all  matters  of  courtship,  the  language  of  a  kindred 
spirit.  In  him  especially  Troubadours  and  Minnesaenger  could 
find  congenial  erotic  themes.  Fundamental  conceptions  of  love 
expressed  by  the  Roman  poet  therefore  bear  a  striking  resemb- 
lance to  their  own.  This  made  it  possible  for  them  to  borrow  from 
Ovid  precepts  in  accord  with  their  conception  of  love  as  a  science, 

ijbertragung  von  Ovids  "Ars  Amatoria,"  herausgegeben  von  H.  Kuhne 
und    E.    Stengel    (Marburg,    1886),    vol.    47    of    Ausgaben    und    Abhand- 
lungen  (E.  Stengel);  Le  Grand,  Fabliaux   (Paris,  1829),  II,  p.  265;  Ovid 
in  Catalan,  Groeber,  op.  cit.,  II,  2,  p.  121. 
28  Cf.   Bibliographical  Appendix,  I. 


24  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

or  better,  as  a  disease  which  could  be  treated  effectively  only  by 
learned  clerks  well  versed  in  the  principles  of  the  Ars  amatoria 
and  the  Eemedia  amoris.  In  both  Ovid  and  the  Troubadours 
specific  elements  of  intrigue  are  the  same  :29  wooing  by  means  of 
letters  and  verse,  the  courtship  of  married  women  leading  to 
adulterous  love,  the  assistance  of  a  go-between,  and  the  like. 
But  to  give  a  more  concrete  example,  that  well-known  genre,  the 
alba,  or  in  Middle  High  German,  the  tageliet,  which  have  their 
parallel  in  subsequent  fiction  in  the  parting  of  the  amorous 
couple  at  dawn,  seems  to  owe  its  origin  to  Ovid.  Its  theme  is  the 
betraying  light  of  the  sun  which  lovers  revile,  since  it  brings 
to  an  end  their  secret  rendez-vous  of  the  night.30  To  the  source 
of  the  fundamental  ideas  of  these  songs,  Ovid  certainly  furnishes 
a  clue.  Let  us  take,  for  example,  a  passage  from  the  Ars  ama- 
toria, so  well  known  to  these  poets,  the  tale  of  the  love  of  Venus 
and  Mars,  II.  571  ff. : 

Sed  bene  concubitus  primos  celare  solebant: 
Plena  vereeundi  culpa  pudoris  erat. 

Indicio  Solis — quis  Solem  fallere  possit? — - 
Cognita  Vulcano  coniugis  acta  suae. 

Quam  mala,  Sol,  exempla  moves?    Pete  munus  ab  ipsa: 
Et  tibi,  si  taceas,  quod  dare  possit,  habet.si 

Here  we  have  an  example  of  adulterous  love  betrayed  by  the 
light  of  the  sun.  as  a  mere  episode  in  a  long  poem.    An  excellent 


29  Ovid  und  die  Troubadours  (dissertation)  von  W.  Schrottner  (Mar- 
burg, 1908);  Joseph  Anglade,  Les  Troubadours  (Paris,  1908);  Anglade 
praises  the  early  Provencal  poetry  for  its  originality  and  adds  (p.  74) : 
' '  ni  par  le  fond,  ni  par  la  forme,  elle  ne  ressemble  a,  rien  de  ce  qui  1  'a 
precedee ' ' ;  and  yet  the  influence  of  Ovid  is  apparent  not  only  in  the  indebt- 
edness to  his  precepts,  and  to  his  phraseology,  but  in  the  very  mention 
of  his  name  as  an  authority.  Anglade  himself  quotes  such  a  passage 
(p.  90):  "Ovide  dit  dans  un  ae  ses  livres — et  vous  pouvez  le  croire — 
que  par  la  souffranee  on  obtient  les  faveurs  de  1 'amour. " 

30  Cf.  Karl  Bartsch,  Deutsche  Liederdichter  des  12ten  bis  liten  Jahr- 
hunderts,  3te  Auflage  (Stuttgart,  1893):  Einleitung.  A  possible  origin  of 
the  alba  may  be  found,  according  to  another  theory,  in  the  correspondence 
of  Hero  and  Leander:  cf.  Birch-Hirschfeld,  Geschichte  der  franzosischen 
Litteratur,  p.  18;  this  theory  does  not  seem  tenable  since  Hero  and 
Leander  are  not  dwelling  together,  or  they  would  not  have  to  write 
epistles;  and  the  chief  motif  of  their  letters  is  not  the  untimely  coming 
of  dawn;  cf.  also  P.  Meyer,  Flamenca,  (Paris,  I860),  p.  282;  Bomania,  vol. 
7,  p.  456  on  Flamenca,  a  Provencal  romance,  which  shows  indebtedness  to 
Ovid. 

si  Also  in  Metamorphoses,  IV,  171  ff. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  25 

alba  or  tageliet  in  a  complete  and  independent  form,  on  the  other 
hand,  can  be  found  in  the  first  book  of  the  Amoves,  the  thirteenth 
song:  To  the  Dawn.  The  poet  begins  with  an  apostrophe  to 
Aurora  bidding  her  tarry  and  not  bring  the  day: 

Jam  super  Oceanum  venit  a  seniore  marito, 

Flava  pruinoso  quae  vehit  axe  diem. 
Quo  properas,  Aurora?  mane:  Sic  Memnonis  umbras 

Annua  solenni  caede  parentet  avis!     (1-4.) 

Now  especially  is  the  presence  of  the  beloved  one  prized : 

Nunc  juvat  in  teneris  dominae  iacuisse  lacertis; 

Si  quando,  lateri  nunc  bene  iuncta  meo  est. 
Nunc  etiam  somni  pingues,  nunc  frigidus  humor;   (5-7.) 

And  as  in  most  poems  of  the  alba  type,  the  early  song  of  a  bird 
is  heard : 

Et  liquidum  tenui  guttere  cantat  avis. 
Quo  properas,  ingrata  viris,  ingrata  puellis?    (8-9.) 

Then,  after  rehearsing  the  various  occupations  which  stir  man- 
kind at  daybreak,  the  poet  remarks  that  early  rising  is  borne 
cheerfully  only  by  him  who  has  no  love : 

Omni  perpeterer:  sed  surgere  mane  puellas, 
Quis,  nisi  eui  non  est  ulla  puella,  ferat? 

Optavi  quoties,  ne  nox  tibi  cedere  vellet. 
Neu  fugerent  vultus  sidera  mota  tuos! 

Optavi  quoties,  aut  ventus  frangeret  axem, 
Aut   caderet  spissa  nube  retentus   equus! 

Invida,   quo   properas?   etc.     (25-31.) 

Then  after  reviling  Aurora,  and  adding  a  last  appeal  for  fur- 
ther delay,  the  poet  announces  the  coming  of  the  inexorable  day : 

Aspice,  quot  somnos  iuveni  donarit  amato 

Luna:   neque  illius  forma  seeunda  tuae. 
Ipse  deum  genitor,  ne  te  tam  saepe  videret, 

Commisit  noctes  in  sua  vota  duas. 
Jurgia  finieram:   scires  audisse;   rubebat. 

Nee  tamen  est  solito  tardius  orta  dies.    (43-48.) 

In  addition  to  what  has  been  said,  it  would  be  profitable  to 
examine  at  length  the  extensive  influence  of  Ovid  upon  mediaeval 
poets,  since  much  remains  to  be  done  in  the  particular  field  of 


26  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

these  investigations.  But  only  two  more  concrete  examples  can 
be  given  here,  and  they  will  suffice  as  typical  instances  of  indebt- 
edness to  the  works  of  Ovid.  The  first  is  the  Roman  de  la  Rose, 
and  the  second  the  Roman  d 'Eneas.  From  what  has  been  stated 
concerning  the  popularity  of  Ovid  during  the  Middle  Ages,  and 
the  importance  of  translations  of  his  works,  it  is  evident  that 
not  only  the  influence  of  the  Latin  originals  must  be  taken  into 
account,  but  fairly  general  acquaintance  with  vernacular  ver- 
sions of  his  poems  must  be  admitted.  Moreover,  it  is  likely  that 
the  influence  of  Latin  and  French  sources  has  become  fused,  and 
this  must  be  taken  into  account  in  any  study  of  indebtedness  to 
Ovid.  In  the  case  of  the  Roman  de  La  Rose,  Langlois32  reaches 
the  conclusion  that  "Guillaume  de  Lorris  s'est  directement 
inspire  d'Ovide,"  and  this  embraces  both  the  Metamorphoses, 
the  Ars  amatoria  and  the  Remedia  amoris.  With  respect  to  the 
first,  Guillaume  has  imitated  some  pictorial  features,  as,  for 
example,  Ovid's  portrait  of  Envy,  Metamorphoses,  II,  768  ff.,  and 
the  romantic  narrative  of  the  death  of  Narcissus.  From  the 
erotic  works,  some  principles  of  love  have  also  been  taken. 

The  most  recent  study  on  some  sources  of  the  Roman  d' Eneas 
printed  in  the  Romania33  is  an  excellent  contribution  to  the  sub- 
ject of  Ovid's  influence,  and  demonstrates  conclusively  that  his 
poems  were  used  as  a  source  of  inspiration  to  a  far  greater  extent 
than  has  been  hitherto  pointed  out.  His  influence  in  this  par- 
ticular case  involves  "the  ideas,  the  invention  and  the  style"  of 
the  French  poet.  A  careful  comparison  is  instituted  to  show 
how  Ovid  originated  certain  ideas  of  love  which  are  often 
repeated,  and  they  survived,  as  we  shall  see,  through  the  Kenas- 
cence.  Thus,  for  example,  the  conception  of  love  as  a  disease 
goes  back  not  only  to  the  principles  of  love  as  they  are  laid  down 

32  E.  Langlois,  Origines  et  sources  du  Roman  de  la  Hose  (Paris,  1891), 
p.    71. 

33  Ovide  et  quelques  autres  sources  du  roman  d' Eneas:  Ed.  Faral, 
Romania,  no.  158,  Avril,  1911;  Cf.  also:  Le  Poeme  de  Piramus  et  Tisbe  et 
quelques  contes  ou  romans  francjais  du  Xlle  sieele,  by  Ed.  Faral,  Romania, 
no.  161,  Jan.  1912;  Ogle,  M.  B.,  Classical  Literary  Tradition  in  Early  Ger- 
man and  Romance  Literature,  p.  233  of  Modem  Language  Notes,  Decem- 
ber, 1912. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Eenascence  in  Spain  27 

in  the  Ars  amatoria,  but  also  to  the  treatment  of  the  love  stories 
in  Ovid's  other  works,  where  those  principles  can  be  found 
applied  in  a  practical  form.  In  this  respect  his  vocabulary  is 
peculiar,  and  is  traceable  in  all  poems  which  imitate  it.  My 
own  conclusions  with  regard  to  many  writers  of  the  Renascence 
had  been  those  of  Faral.  As  an  example,  equivalents  for  "ill" 
{aeger,  lauguidus) ,  for  love  itself  {malum,  morbus,  torpor),  for 
''healing  or  curing"  {curare,  sanare),  for  "one  free  from  love" 
{sanus,  valere),  for  "remedies"  {remedia) ,  or  for  a  "doctor"  of 
this  disease  {medicus) ,  illustrate  this  contention.  Finally  the 
influence  of  Ovid  upon  certain  "discours  de  style"  is  demon- 
strated, and  furnishes  additional  testimony  to  his  literary  pres- 
tige among  the  poets  of  the  Middle  Ages. 


28  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 


EL  LIBEO  DE  BUEN  AMOB  BY  THE  ARCIPRESTE  DE 
HITA,  AND  ITS  INDEBTEDNESS  TO  OVID 

A 

What  is  the  subsequent  course  which  the  influence  of  the  Ars 
amatoria,  the  Bemedia  amoris  and  the  Amoves  takes  after  the 
thirteenth  century,  up  to  the  threshold  of  the  Renascence?  An 
interesting  testimony  to  the  prestige  and  popularity  of  Ovid  is 
the  attribution  to  him  of  a  work  of  the  late  Middle  Ages  (pos- 
sibly of  the  twelfth  century  and  probably  of  a  more  recent  date), 
one  conceived  entirely  in  the  spirit  of  his  amatory  writings,  and, 
in  a  sense  constructed  wholly  of  elements  taken  chiefly  from  the 
Ars  amatoria;  I  mean  the  important  Bamphilus  de  amore.  This 
work  may  be  called  the  first  novel  in  dramatic  form  belonging  to 
the  particular  Ovidian  tradition  with  which  we  are  dealing.  It 
is  important,  because  it  is,  as  far  as  I  am  aware,  the  first  literary 
attempt  to  turn  to  practical  use  in  a  framework  of  well-defined 
scenes  those  precepts  of  love  and  intrigue  which  had  been  set 
forth  in  the  Ars  amatoria  with  a  purely  didactic  purpose.  The 
influence  of  Ovid's  works,  either  directly,  or  fused  with  that  of 
the  Bamphilus,  is,  therefore,  to  be  looked  for  in  amatory  and 
sentimental  literature,  and  the  essential  features  of  subsequent 
borrowings  will  be  apparent  from  various  concrete  examples. 

In  Spain,  one  of  the  prominent  figures  of  the  late  Middle 
Ages  is  that  of  Juan  Ruiz,  Arcipreste  de  Hita,  whose  work 
already  betrays  much  of  the  spirit  of  the  coming  Renascence.  His 
Libro  de  buen  amor,3i  so  comprehensive  in  its  grasp  of  life,  so 

34  Cf.  Juan  Euiz  Arcipreste  de  Hita,  Libro  de  buen  Amor,  texte  du  xive 
siecle,  publie  etc.  par  Jean  Ducamin  (Toulouse,  1901),  Bibliotheque  Meri- 
dionale,  Ire  serie,  tome  vi:  this  text  is,  of  course,  far  more  correct  than 
that  in  the  Biblioteca  de  autores  espanoles;  the  best  edition  of  the  Ars 
amatoria  is,  as  far  as  I  am  aware,  that  of  Paul  Brandt  (Leipzig,  1902) ; 
cf.  also  Le  Comte  de  Puymaigre,  Les  vieux  auteurs  castillans,  Histoire  de 
1  'ancienne  litterature  espagnole,  nouvelle  edition,  deuxieme  serie  (Paris, 
1890),  p.  257,  ch.  xi;  in  the  Cldsicos  castellanos:  Juan  Euiz,  Arcipreste 
de  Hita,  Libro  de  Buen  amor,  2  vols.,  (edicion  y  notas  de  Julio  Cejador  y 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Benascence  in  Spain  29 

full  of  the  evidence  of  varied  experiences,  so  virile  in  its  analysis 
of  humanity,  is,  with  all  its  originality,  much  indebted  to  Ovid, 
and  not  only  indirectly  through  the  anonymous  Pamphilus  de 
amove,  but  directly  also  to  his  chief  poem  on  love.  Indeed,  the 
Libro  de  buen  amor  represents  the  high-water  mark  of  borrow- 
ings from  Ovid  in  Spanish  literature  of  the  Middle  Ages.  The 
full  extent  to  which  Juan  Ruiz  is  indebted  to  the  Ars  amatoria, 
the  Bemedia  amoris  and  possibly  the  Amoves  has  never  been 
determined,  and  can  be  ascertained  in  a  satisfactory  way  only 
with  difficulty.  What  follows  is  therefore  not  intended  as  a 
definite  study  of  the  relations  of  Ovid  and  Juan  Ruiz,  but  a 
beginning  sufficiently  convincing  to  justify  the  assertion  that  El 
Libro  de  buen  amor  betrays  a  thorough  acquaintance  on  the  part 
of  its  author  with  the  Latin  poet  and  thus  to  invite  further  study 
of  the  subject.  At  all  events,  it  is  certain  that  D.  Julio  Puyol 
y  Alonso,  in  his  critical  study  El  Arcipreste  de  Hita  makes  an 
untenable  statement,  when,  speaking  of  specific  similarities 
between  Juan  Ruiz  and  Ovid,  he  says:  "Todo  esto,  en  efecto, 
acusa  una  influencia  mas  6  menos  directa  de  Ovidio  y  una  viva 
impresion  de  sus  lecturas ;  pero  es  el  caso  que,  a  pesar  de  cuanto 
queda  dicho,  pudo  muy  bien  el  Arcipreste  no  haber  leido  a  Ovidio 
en  su  vida,  porque  las  ideas  a  que  hemos  hecho  referenda  fueron 
tornados  por  el,  casi  al  pie  de  la  letra,  como  veremos  en  breve  de 


Frauca  (Madrid,  1913).  This  edition  lacks  sobriety  and  makes  arbitrary 
assertions,  as,  for  example:  Pero  no  admito  "la  tercera  y  muy  visible 
dote,  la  abundancia  despilfarrada  y  algo  viciosa  de  su  estilo,  formado 
principalmente  a  imitaeion  del  de  Ovidio,  de  cuyas  buenas  y  malas 
condiciones  participa  en  alto  grado,  puesto  que  la  riqueza  degenera  en 
prodigalidad,  y  la  idea  se  anega  en  un  mar  de  palabras.  ..."  Ni  se 
formo  [Juan  Euiz]  en  Ovidio,  ni  leyo  siquiera  un  solo  verso  suyo,  ni 
se  le  parece  en  nada  mas  que  en  ser  Ovidio  elegantisimo  y  social  poeta, 
y  el  Arcipreste  poeta  insociable  y  primitivo,  de  lo  mas  primitivo,  bronco 
y  estupendamente  salvaje  que  resollo  y  echo  a  este  mundo  la  diosa  Madre 
de  la  poesia  universal,  de  la  cual  fueron  hijas  helenicas  las  elegantes 
Musas  elasicas  que  conocemos.  (p.  xxvii.)  Wolf,  whose  judgment 
Cejador  does  not  seem  to  admit,  says  (Studien,  op.  cit.,  p.  108,  n.  1):, 
"Diese  von  Amor  und  spater  von  der  Venus  dem  Dichter  ertheilten 
Eathschlage  sind  offenbar  eine  Nachahmung  von  Ovid's  Kunst  zu  lieben, 
wie  sich  selbst  oft  bis  ins  Einzelne  nachweisen  lasst  ....  versteht  sich 
im  Gewande  des  Mittelalters,  und  von  unserem  Spanier  gliieklich  locali- 
siert. "  Cejador  also  asserts  that  "Ovid  was  not  known  in  Spain  until 
the  epoch  of  Santillana  and  D.  Enrique  de  Villena"  (p.  300).  Similar 
statements  destroy  the  scholarly  value  of  this  edition. 


30  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  PUlology       [Vol.  4 

la  comedia  latina  Pamphilus  de  amove,"  etc.    (p.  242.)35     In 
hapter  xiii  of  his  book  Puyol  y  Alonso  presents  m  a  — 

way  parallel  passages  from  El  Liovo  de  ouen  amor  and  the  Latm 

play  Pamphilus  de  amove. 

Nevertheless   careful  analysis  and  comparison  of  the  work  ot 

Jnaf  Rutw  th  the  amatory  books  of  Ovid,  chiefly  the  Avs  ama- 
tZ  ^  v  a    the  imitation  of  features  for  which  the  PamVUdus 

instified  in  throwing  out  Juan  Ruiz's  own  evidence  that  he  knew 
Ov  d  He  clearlv  calls  him  one  of  his  sources  and  mentions  him 
both  alone  and  in  conjunction  with  Pamphilus."  In  the  former 
ease  he  d  stinctlv  speaks  of  Ovid  as  the  author  of  amatory  pre- 
cepts as  an  authority  in  the  held  of  love,  and  as  a  wnter  known 
t  Don  Amor  through  the  schools  (in  which  he  was  read  as  a 
part  of  the  curriculum  de  gramdtica).  Note  the  significance  of 
t^folWg  lines ;  one  and  three  are  inconsistent  but  g.ve  equal 
evidence  of  Ovid's  popularity.     (Amor  says)  : 

1.  "By  leyeres  Ovydio,  el  que  fue  mi  criado, 

En  d  fallaras  fablas,  que  le  ove  yo  mostrado;       (st   429.) 
o.Esto  que  te  castigo  con  Ovidio  concuerda;   (st.  446.) 

Venus  says : 

3.  El  Amor  leo  a  Ovydyo  en  la  escuela;  (st.  612.) 

Where  Pamphilus  and  Ovid  are  mentioned  together  the  peculiar 
71  Pan,L  Nason  Justifies  the  belief  that  the  anonymous  Mm 
play  and  the  works  of  Ovid  were,  m  the  mmd  of  Juan  Ruiz, 

-^T^cipreste  de  Hita Estudio t^%^ai^°J^  ^°^!, 
(Madrid,  1906);  also  PampMU,  ™lf**™e Z  A.  Baudouin  (Paris, 
preceded  d'une  etude  critique  J  d  ™°  S \\ "  Menendez  y  Pelayo  in  an 
1874);   the  PampMus  has .been  "prmted   by  ^  f    al 

edition  of  the   Celestma   (by  E.  K rapt)     ^  f  ^  in,  p.  lxxvff; 

Menendez  y  Pelayo:   Ant  ologia .de  poeta^  ^  however    the 

Origenes  de  la  novela,  I,  p.  xcr^  ana  i^  v  ,  F<?  on  the  three 

Pamphilus  is  again  confused  ™^  fj,^^  has  nothing  in  common, 
books  of  the  latter  with  which  the  ™?^  T     ffela  Qeschichte  der 

cf.  Origenes,  op.  cit.,  I,  p.  ""'»£«  ^f  Band  (Leipzig  und  Berlin, 
Bdmischen    Literatur      6te     Aufl .affe      -te r      -  V  1Q92;  g  h     k 

1910)    P.  10;  cf.  also  Graesse,  Litteunne^ '"        •      .     g„an,v„    (Frankfurt, 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Benascence  in  Spai7i  31 

separate  things,  though  it  must  have  been  perfectly  plain  to  him 
that  the  former  was  inspired  by  the  latter.  Cf.  "Panfilo  e  Nason, 
yo  los  ove  eastigado"  (st.  429.)  Again,  the  imitation  of  the  plot 
of  the  Pamphilus  is  concentrated  in  a  certain  part  of  El  Libvo  de 
buen  amor,  beginning  approximately  with  stanza  580  and  running 
through  stanza  891.  Between  these  two  stanzas  there  are  numer- 
ous passages  indebted  chiefly  to  the  Pamphilus,  but  not  a  few 
recall  Ovid  also  because  specific  ideas  from  both  had  become  indis- 
tinguishably  fused  in  the  mind  of  the  Archpriest;  and  while  he 
says  in  stanza  698  "Doiia  Venus  por  Panfilo  non  pudo  mas 
fazer, "  and  in  612  that  "el  Amor  leo  a  Ovydyo  en  la  escuela," 
he  throws  the  whole  blame  of  the  immoral  features  of  his  story 
on  both  Ovid  and  "Pamphilus,"  stanza  891  "que  lo  feo  del 
estoria  diz  Panfilo  e  Nason."  It  is  unlikely  from  all  this  that 
Juan  Ruiz's  manuscript  of  the  Pamphilus  de  amove  attributed 
the  work  to  Ovid;  it  may  have  borne  simply  the  usual  title, 
Pamphilus  de  amove,  and  Juan  Ruiz  must  have  considered  one 
"Pamphilus"  as  the  author  of  the  play.  The  autobiographical 
character  of  his  own  poem  would  have  made  it  a  very  natural 
conclusion  for  him  that  a  certain  "Pamphilus"  was  telling  only 
a  personal  experience,  adorned  with  the  precepts  of  Ovid. 

It  is  also  evident  that  Juan  Ruiz  recalled  Ovid  in  passages 
which  precede  or  follow  the  particular  episode  borrowed  from  the 
Pamphilus.  A  concrete  example  may  serve:  the  very  first  pre- 
cept in  Ovid  is  to  choose  an  object,  or,  in  other  words,  to  find 
some  woman  you  may  win.  This  precept  has  no  place  in  the 
Pamphilus,  inasmuch  as  the  protagonist  is  already  enamored 
of  Galatea  when  the  play  begins.  ' '  Est  michi  vicina  (vellem  non 
esse)  puella,"  he  says  (v.  35.)  And  Juan  Ruiz,  who  copies  this 
situation,  tells  us  :  "busque  e  falle  duefia,  de  qual  so  deseoso"  (st. 
580)  aftev  he  has  found  Doiia  Endrina;  thereupon  the  close 
imitation  of  the  Pamphilus  follows. 

Now  the  Avs  amatoria  counsels  us  (I,  35-6)  : 
Principio,   quod   amare  velis,   reperire  labora, 
Qui  nova  nunc  primum  miles  in  arma  venis. 

'  First  do  you  find  her  whom  you  wish  to  win ' ;  in  a  passage  not 


32  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

related  with  his  story  of  Dofia  Endrina,  for  that  begins  much 
later  at  st.  580  ff.,  Juan  Ruiz  says  that  you  must  first  know  how 
to  select  a  woman : 

Si  quisyeres  amar  dueiias  o  otra  qual  quier  muger, 
muchas  cosas  avras  primero  de  aprender, 
para  que  ella  te  quiera  en  su  amor  querer: 
sabe  primera  mente  la  muger  escoger.     (st.  430.) 

The  belief  that  this  precept  is  taken  from  Ovid  is  greatly 
strengthened  by  the  fact  that  in  the  stanza  immediately  pre- 
ceding Ovid  is  mentioned  twice,  once  alone,  and  once  with  Pam- 
philus;  a  part  of  the  stanza  has  already  been  quoted;  Amor 
says  (st.  429)  : 

Sy  leyeres  Ovydio  el  que  fue  mi  criado 
En  el  fallaras  fablas,  que  le  ove  yo  mostrado, 
muchas  buenas  maneras  para  enamorado; 
Panfilo  e  Nason  yo  los  ove  castigado. 

It  would  be  difficult  to  give  a  better  characterization  in  one  verse 
of  the  Ars  amatoria,  than  to  say  that  in  it  the  Archpriest  could 
find  "many  good  precepts  for  a  lover." 

Having  indicated  the  first  step,  Juan  Ruiz  discusses  the  quali- 
ties and  traits  of  such  as  may  become  the  lover's  choice  (431- 
435)  : 

Cata  muger   fermosa,  donosa  e   locana, 

que  non  sea  mucho  luenga  otrosi  nin  enana, 

sy  podieres  non  quieras  amar  muger  villana, 

que  de  amor  non  sabe,  es  eomo  bausana,  etc.     (st.  431.) 

This  is  followed  by  suggestions  on  the  manner  of  approaching 
one 's  choice :  the  assistance  of  messengers  and  go-betweens,  trota- 
conventos  and  viejas,  is  recommended  (436-443).    For  example: 

Toraa  de  unas  viejas,  que  se  fasen  erveras, 
andan  de  casa  en  casa>  e  llamanse  parteras; 
con  polvos  e  afeytes  e  con  alcoholeras, 
echan  la  mo§a  en  ojo  e  c,iegan  bien  de  veras. 

E  busca  mesajera  de  unas  negras  [pecatas], 

que  usan  muncho  los  frayres,  las  monjas  e  beatas: 

son  mucho  andariegas  e  meresc,en  las  §apatas; 

estas  trotaconventos  fasen  muchas  baratas.     (st.  440-1.) 


1913]  Sclievill:  Ovid  and  the  Benascence  in  Spain  33 

All  of  which  advice  Juan  Ruiz  tells  us  agrees  with  that  of  Ovid ; 
he  may  have  had  in  mind  especially  the  Dipsas  of  the  Amoves, 
I,  8,  and  her  kind : 

Esto  que  te  castigo  con  Ovidio  concuerda;  etc.    (st.  446.) 

The  Ars  amatoria  continues  with  the  second  step : 

Proximus  huic  labor  est,  placitam  exorare  puellam.    (I,  37.) 
That  is,  you  must  persuade  and  win  her  whom  you  have  selected. 
Juan  Ruiz  also  goes  on  to  say,  having  once  found  the  right  one : 

Atal  es  de  servir,  atal  es  de  amar; 

es  muy  mas  plasentera  que  otras  en  dofiear: 

si  tal  saber  podieres  e  la  quesieres  cobrar, 

fas  mucho  por  servirla  en  desir  e  obrar.     (st.  450.) 

The  third  step  in  Ovid  is  to  make  the  passion  endure : 
Tertius,  ut  longo  tempore  duret  amor.     (I,  38.) 

This  naturally  implies  long,  patient  and  varied  service,  to  the 
analysis  of  which  a  large  part  of  the  Ars  amatoria,  I  and  II,  is 
devoted.    I  shall  select  several  of  its  most  characteristic  precepts. 

a.  (Be  ever  ready  to  serve)  : 

Quaelibet  officio  causa  sit  apta  tuo.     (I,  152.) 

b.  (Persist  in  your  suit)  : 

....  propositumque   tene. 

Quid  magis  est  saxo  durum?   quid  mollius  unda? 
Dura  tamen  molli  saxa  cavantur  aqua.      (I,  470  ff.) 

c.  (Waste  your  time  yielding  to  her  caprices)   (I,  499ff.)  : 

Arbitrio  dominae  tempora  perde  tuae.   (I,  504.) 

d.  (The  hesitating,  diffident  lover  will  be  scorned)  : 

Quis  sapiens  blandis  non  misceat  oscula  verbis? 

Ilia  licet  non  det,  non  data  sume  tamen. 
Pugnabit  primo  fortassis  et  'Improbe'  dicet; 

Pugnando   vinci   sed   tamen  ilia  volet. 

Oscula  qui  sumsit,  si  non  et  cetera  sumet, 

Haec  quoque,  quae  data  sunt,  perdere  dignus  erit. 

(I,  663-70.) 

At  quae,  cum  cogi  posset,  non  tacta  recessit, 
Ut  simulet  vultu  gaudia,  tristis  erit.     (1,677-8.) 


34  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

e.   (Approve  of  her  actions  and  do  not  contradict  her)  : 

Fac  modo,  quas  partes  ilia  jubebit,  agas. 
Arguet,  arguito;  quicquid  probat  ilia,  probato. 

Quod  dicet,  dicas;  quod  negat  ilia,  neges. 
Eiserit,  arride;  si  flebit,  flere  memento; 

Imponat  leges  vultibus  ilia  tuis.     (II,  19S-202.) 

/.   (Give  her  the  credit  of  doing  or  suggesting  that  which  you 

yourself  wish  to  be  done,  or  had  already  intended  to  do)  : 

At  quod  eris  per  te  facturus  et  utile  credis, 
Id  tua  te  facito  semper  arnica  roget. 

Quod  facturus  eras  debeat  ilia  tibi.      (II,  2S7-92.) 

g.  (Speak  in  exaggerated  terms  of  her  dress,  her  beauty,  her 
gifts)  : 

Attonitum  forma  fac  putet  esse  sua. 
Sive  erit  in  Tyriis:    Tyrios  laudabis  amictus; 

Aurata  est:  ipso  tibi  sit  pretiosior  auro; 

Brachia  saltantis,  voceni  mirare  canentis;    (11,296-305.) 

h.   (Make  virtues  out  of  her  defects)  : 

Die  habilem,  quaecumque  brevis;  quae  turgida,  plenam; 
Et  lateat  vitium  proximitate  boni.      (11,661-2.) 

Compare  all  these  with  the  following  passage  from  Juan  Ruiz, 
however  modified  and  condensed  they  may  seem ;  after  telling  us 
that  the  beloved  one  demands  "service"  (fas  mucho  por  servirla 
en  desir  e  obrar,  st.  450)  the  Archpriest  continues  : 

[Syrvela,  non  te  enojes,  syrviendo  el  amor  crec,e; 
el  servic,io  en  el  bueno  nunca  muere  nin  peresc.e; 
sy  se  tarda,  non  se  pierde,  el  amor  nunca  fallese, 
que  el  grand  trabajo  todas  las  cosas  venge.36] 

Gradescjegelo  mucho  lo  que  por  ti  feziere, 
pongelo  en  mayor  prec.io  de  quanto  ello  valyere, 
non  le  seas  rrefertero  en  lo  que  te  pediere, 
nin  le  seas  porfioso  contra  lo  que  te  dixiere. 


36  This  stanza  is  redundant  and  out  of  place  here;  it  occurs  again  as 
stanza  611.  where  it  belongs  as  a  part  of  the  borrowings  from  the  Pamphilus. 
The  fourth  verse  translates:  labor  improbus  omnia  vincit.  from  the  Latin 
play  which  took  the  verse  from  the  Georgies,  I,  146;  a  similar  phrase  in 
Ovid  is:   difficilis  nostra  poseitur  arte  labor.     II,  538. 


1913J  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  35 

Requiere  a  menudo  a  la  que  bien  quisieres, 
non  ayas  della  miedo  quando  tienpo  tovyeres, 
vergueiia  non  te  enbargue  do  con  ella  estodieres, 
peresoso  non  seas  do  buen  hac,ina  vyeres. 

Quando  la  muger  vee  al  peresoso  covardo, 
dise  luego  entre  sus  dientes:  oyste!  tomare  mi  dardo; 
con  muger  non  te  enperecjes  nin  te  enbuelvas  en  tabardo, 
del  vestido  mas  chico  sea  tu  ardit  alardo. 

Son  en  la  grand  peresa  miedo  e  cobardia, 

torpedat  e  vilesa,  ssusiedat  e  astrosya: 

por  peresa  perdieron  muchos  conpafia  mia, 

por  peresa  se  pierde  muger  de  grand  valya.    (st.  452-6.) 

Stanza  452  is  repeated  as  stanza  611,  where,  as  I  have  stated, 
it  more  properly  belongs ;  but  even  in  the  midst  of  his  borrowings 
from  the  Pampkilus  Juan  Ruiz  cannot  forget  his  real  source, 
Ovid,  for  it  is  there  that  he  says : 

El  Amor  leo  a  Ovydyo  en  la  escuela, 

que  non  ha  muger  en  el  mundo  nin  grande  nin  moquela, 

que  trabajo  e  servi^io  non  la  traya  al  espuela, 

que  tarde  o  que  ama  creye  que  de  ti  se  duela.    (st.  612.) 

Perhaps  Juan  Ruiz  was  reminded  that  previously  to  this  point 
in  his  poem  he  had  borrowed  Ovid's  precepts,  and  that  credit 
should  be  given  where  credit  was  due.  At  all  events,  we  know 
that  Ovid  was  included  in  many  school-lists  of  books  during  the 
Middle  Ages,  and  that  the  Pamphilus  was  not.  Be  all  this  as 
it  may,  the  above  ideas  of  (a)  service  based  on  (b)  persistence, 
(c)  pliancy,  (d)  boldness  with  the  fair  sex,  (e)  avoidance  of  con- 
tradicting her,  (/')  gratitude  for  something  that  does  not  deserve 
it,  (g  and  h)  exaggerated  praise  of  the  beloved  one,  are  repeated 
in  Ovid  with  some  variety  and  it  is  not  improbable  that  Juan 
Ruiz  made  use  of  them  just  as  they  occurred  tp  him.  And  as 
is  the  case  with  Ovid,  he  repeats  himself  frequently,  nor  is  there 
any  special  order  in  the  precepts  which  he  employs.  The  easy 
-style  of  El  Libro  de  buen  amor  makes  all  this  quite  natural,  but 
it  has  rendered  the  difficulty  of  distinguishing  the  borrowings 
from  Panfilo  and  those  from  Ovydio  or  Nason  very  great.     The 


X 


36  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

difference  in  Juan  Ruiz's  language  may  be  ascribed  to  his  half- 
pagan,  half-Christian  morals,  in  the  expression  of  which  the 
sources  from  which  he  took  his  material  were  bound  to  be  some- 
what modified.  Wherever  Juan  Ruiz  seems  to  contradict  him- 
self, the  pagan  and  Christian  in  him  may  have  been  at  odds. 

B 

In  the  following  parallels  the  amatory  works  of  Ovid  and 
the  Libro  de  buen  amor  may  be  compared ;  the  order  of  the  pas- 
sages, as  they  occur  in  the  latter,  has  been  maintained  as  far  as 
this  was  feasible. 

1 
The  Latin  poet  says,  that  he  sent  to  his  love  not  gifts,  but  verses : 

Pauperibus  vates  ego   sum:   quia  pauper  amavi. 

Cum  dare  non  possem  munera,  verba  dabam.    (Ars  amat.  II,  165-6.) 

Nee  dominam  iubeo  pretioso  munere  dones,  etc.     (II,  261.) 

Quid  tibi  praecipiam  teneros  quoque  mittere  versus?    (II,  273.) 

His  ergo,  aut  illis,  vigilatum  carmen  in  ipsas, 
Forsitan  exigui  muneris  instar  erit.      (11,285-6.) 

But  these  written  messages  may  be  rejected : 

Si  non  accipiet  scriptum,  illectumque  remittet: 
Lecturam  spera,  etc.      (I,  469-70.) 

Whenever  Ovid  sends  messages  of  love  in  the  form  of  letters  we 
must  remember  that  this  is  but  a  variation  of  his  precept  to  send 
verses,  since  his  epistles  (coming  from  a  poet)  were  doubtless 
generally  in  verse. 

Cera  vadum  tentet  rasis  infusa  tabellis, 

Cera  tuae  primum  nuntia  mentis  eat.     (I,  437-8.) 

These  precepts  were  taken  up  by  Juan  Ruiz  as  follows: 
Assy  fue  que  un  tienpo  una  dnena  me  prisso,  etc.  (77.) 

enbiele  esta  cantiga,  que  es  de  yuso  puesta, 

con  la  mi  mensajera  que  tenia  enpuesta; 

dise  verdat  la  fabla,  que  la  duefia  conpuesta, 

si  non  quiere  el  mandado,  non  da  buena  rrespuesta.   (80.) 


1913]  ScheviU :  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  37 

Ffis  luego  estas  cantigas   de  verdadera  salva, 

mande  que  gelas  diesen  de  noche  o  al  alva : 

non  las  quiso  tomar:  dixe  yo:   "muy  mal  va, 

al  tienpo  se  eneoje  mejor  la  yerva  malva. "     (104.) 

Por  amor  desta  duefia  ffis  trobas  e  eantares, 
ssenbre  avena  loca  Kibera  de  Henares; 
verdat  es  lo  que  disen  los  rretraheres : 
quien  en  el  arenal  sienbra,  non  trilla  pegujares. 

Coydandola  yo  aver  entre  las  benditas, 

davale  de  mis  donas,  non  panos  e  non  (jintas, 

non  cuentas  nin  sartal,  nin  sortijas,  nin  mitas; 

[enbiele?]  estas  cantigas  que  son  de  yuso  escriptas.  (Cf.  st.  80.) 

Non  quiso  receuirlo  etc.      (170-2.) 

Juan  Ruiz  repeats  this  motif  of  the  rejection  of  his  offerings,  and 
enlarges  on  it.  There  is  nothing  in  the  Pampkilus  about  sending 
verses  as  a  gift. 

2 

All  creatures  seek  mates,  men  as  well  as  animals ;  Ovid  says : 
Ales  habet,  quod  amet;  cum  quo  sua  gaudia  iungat 

Invenit  in  media  femina  piscis  aqua; 
Cerva  parem  sequitur;   serpens  serpente  tenetur; 

Haeret  adulterio  cum  cane  nexa  canis; 
Laeta  salitur  ovis;  tauro  quoque  laeta  iuvenca  est; 

Sustinet   inmundum   sima   capella   marem ; 
In  furias  agitantur  equae  spatioque  remota 

Per  loca  dividuos  amne  sequuntur  equos: 
Ergo  age  et  iratae  medicamina  fortia  praebe! 

Ilia  feri  requiem  sola  doloris  habent,  etc.   (II,  481-90.) 

Juan  Ruiz  has : 

Que  dis  verdat  el  sabio37  clara  mente  se  prueva: 
omes,    aves,    animalias,   toda   bestia    de    cueva 
quieren  segund   natura  conpania   sienpre   nueva, 
e  quanto  mas  el  ome  que  a  toda  cosa  se  mueva.     (73.) 

s7  Ovid,  whom  Juan  Ruiz  knew  far  better  than  Aristotle,  might  be 
implied  by  el  sabio ;  Juan  Ruiz  leads  us  to  suppose  that  he  means  Aris- 
totle (como  dise  Aristoteles,  etc.,  st.  71),  but  this  offhand  manner  of  citing 
authorities  may  prove  misleading.  In  this  case  Aristotle  fits  into  the 
verse  and  Ovidio,  or  Nason,  does  not;  moreover,  the  mention  of  learned 
names  sounds  at  times  like  a  concession  to  the  readers  of  the  poem,  who 
were  to  be  impressed  with  the  fact  that  Juan  Ruiz  was  not  responsible 
for  some  of  the  ideas  set  down.  He  must  have  had  a  twinkle  in  his 
eye  when  he  attributed  to  Aristotle  the  phrase  "el  mundo  por  dos  cosas 
trabaja, "  and  that  one  was  "por  aver  juntamiento  con  fembra  pla- 
sentera. " 


38  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Ssi  ome  a  la  muger  non  la  quisiesse  bien, 
non  ternia  tantos  presos  el  amor  quantos  tien; 
por  santo  nin  santa  que  seya,  non  se  quien 
non  cobdie.ie  conpafia,  sy  solo  se  mantien.      (110.) 

E  porque  es  costunbre  de  mancebos  usada, 
querer   sienpre   tener  alguna   enamorada 
por  aver   solas   bueno   del   amor  con   amada, 
tome  amiga  nueva,  una  duefia  en§errada.      (167.) 

3 
Love  makes  all  creatures  less  uncouth ;  Ovid  tells  us : 

Turn  genus  humanum  solis  errabit  in  agris, 

Idque  merae  vires  et  rude  corpus  erat; 
Silva    domus   fuerat,    cibus   herba,    cubilia    frondes, 

Iamque  diu  nulli  cognitus  alter  erat. 
Blanda  truces  animos  fertur  mollisse  voluptas,  etc.    (11,473-7.) 

This  idea  Juan  Ruiz  expresses  as  follows: 

El  amor  fas  sotil  al  ome  que  es  rrudo, 
ffasele  fabrar  fermoso  al  que  antes  es  mudo, 
al  ome  que  es  covarde  faselo  muy  atrevudo, 
al  peresoso  fase  ser  presto  e  agudo. 

Al  manqebo  mantiene  mucho  en  mancebes, 

al  vie  jo  fas  perder  mucho  la  vejes, 

ffase  bianco  e  fermoso  del  negro  como  pes 

lo  que  non  val  una  nues,  amor  le  da  gran  pres.    (st.  156-7.) 

4 
There  is  no  risk  nor  harm  in  making  promises,  nor  need  one  feel 
bound  by  them;  Ovid's  precept  is: 

Promittas   facito!    quid   enim   promittere   laedit? 

Pollicitis   dives   quilibet   esse   potest. 
Spes  tenet  in  tempus,  semel  est  si  credita,  longum : 

Ilia  quidem  fallax,  sed  tamen  apta  dea  est.    (I,  443-6.) 

Jupiter  ex  alto  perjuria  ridet  amantum 

Et  jubet  Aeolios  irrita  ferre  notos.    (1,633-4.) 

Juan  Ruiz  repeats  this  precept  several  times : 

Dis  quando  quier  casar  ome  con  duefia  mucho  honrrada, 
promete  e  manda  mucho;  desque  la  ha  cobrada, 
de  quanto  le  prometio,  o  le  da  poco  o  nada, 
ffase  como  la  tierra  quando  estava  finchada.    (st.  97.) 


1913J  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  39 

....  el  amor  siepre  fabla  mintroso.     (st.  161.) 

prometen  e  mandan  mucho  los  omes  con  amor, 

por  conplir  lo  que  mandan  cobdician  lo  peor.    (st.  220.) 

To  Don  Amor  he  says : 

de  todos  tus  vassallos  fases  necios  fadragas, 
prometes  grandes  cosas,  poco  e  tarde  pagas.    (st.  400.) 

De  tus  joyas  fermosas  cadaque  dar  podieres: 
quando  dar  non  quesieres  o  quando  non  tovieres, 
promete  e  manda  mucho  mager  non  gelo  dieres: 
luego  sera  afusiada,  fara  lo  que  quesieres.    (st.  451.) 

5 

It  may  prove  dangerous  to  take  a  friend  into  your  confidence ; 

he  may  supplant  you  in  the  affections  of  your  mistress ;  the  Ars 

amatoria  has: 

Nomen  amicitia  est,  nomen  inane  fides. 
Ei  mihi!  non  tutum  est,  quod  ames,  laudare  sodali! 

Cum  tibi  laudanti  credidit,  ipse  subit.    (I,  740-2.) 

Cognatum   fratremque  cave  carumque  sodalem: 
Praebebit  veros  haec  tibi  turba  metus.    (I,  753-4.) 

Juan  Ruiz  has  a  bitter  experience  with  a  friend  whom  he  had 
used  as  a  messenger  to  the  object  of  his  devotions: 

E  porque  yo  non  podia  con  ella  ansi  fablar, 
puse  por  mi  menssajero,  coydando  recabdar, 
a  un  mi  conpanero:  sopome  el  clavo  echar; 
el  comio  la  vianda  e  a  mi  fasie  rumiar. 

ffis  con  el  grand  pessar  esta  troba  cacura,  etc. 

(113-4.) 

Then  follows  "de  lo  que  contescio  al  Arcipreste  con  Ferrand 
Garcia,  su  menssajero, ' '  one  of  the  stanzas  being : 


Dios  confonda  menssajero     1 
tan  presto  e  tan  ligero,  I 

non  medre  dios  tal  conejeroj 


que  la  caqa  ansy  adus. 
(-120.) 


40  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

The  archpriest  returns  several  times  to  this  precept  of  Ovid ;  he 
no  longer  confides  in  a  friend : 

Sabecl  que  non  busque  otro  Ferrand  Ganjia, 

nin  lo  eoydo  buscar  para  mensajeria; 

nunca  se  ome  bien  f  alia  de  mala  conpania : 

de  mensajero  malo  guarde  me  Santa  Maria!    (-913.) 

and  again: 

De  los  malos  amigos  vienen  malos  escotes, 
non  viene  dellos  ayuda  mas  que  de  unos  alrrotes, 
sinon   falsas   escusas,   lysonjas,  amargotes; 
guardevos  dios,  amigos,  de  tales  amigotes!     (-1478.) 

6 
Ovid  pictures  the  lover  as  a  warrior  whose  weapons  are  the 
precepts  of  his  Ars  amatoria;  this  idea  may  be  found  very  fre- 
quently expressed: 

(The  lover  is  addressed  as  one) 
Qui  nova  nunc  primum  miles  in  arma  venis.    (1,36.) 

Militiae  species  amor  est:  discedite,  segnes: 

Non  sunt  haec  timidis  signa  tuenda  viris.     (II,  233-4.) 

Hoc  quoque  militia  est,  hoc  quoque  quaerit  opes.     (II,  674.) 

Legerat  huius  Amor  titulum  nomenque  libelli: 

Bella  mihi,  video,  bella  parantur,  ait.    (Bern.  am.  1-2.) 

Militat  omnis  amans,  et  habet  sua  castra  Cupido; 

Inde  vides  agilem  nocturnaque  bella  gerentem. 

(Amores,  ix,  1  and  45.) 

It  may  be  presumed  that  Juan  Ruiz  had  this  conception  in  mind 
when  he  personifies  Love  and  speaks  of  his  disputes  with  Don 
Amor;  note  also  the  terms  debatir  and  enforzarse ;  ferir  de  golpe 
also  recalls  similar  accusations  against  love  made  by  Ovid :  et 
mihi  cedet  Amor,  quamvis  mea  vulneret  arcu  pectora  (I,  21)  ; 
Juan  Ruiz  says: 

Nunca  puedo  acabar  lo  medio  que  deseo; 

por  esto  a  las  vegadas  con  el  amor  peleo.     (st.  180.) 

Dyrevos  una  pelea,  que  una  noche  me  vino.     (st.  181.) 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  41 

Eres  tan  enconado  que,  do  fteres  de  golpe, 

non  la   sana   mengia,   enplasto   nin   xarope, 

Non  se  ffuerte  nin  rre§io  que  se  contigo  tope, 

que  nol  debatas  luego,  por  mucho  que  se  enforce,  (st.  187.) 

The  second  verse  of  the  last  stanza,  in  telling  us  that  medicines 
(mengia,  enplasto  nin  xarope)  do  not  heal  love's  wounds,  may 
be  a  reminiscence  of  Ovid's  warning  against  noxious  herbs: 
Viderit,  Haemoniae  si  quis  mala  pabula  terrae 

Et  magicas  artes  posse  iuvare  putat.  {Rem.  am.  249-50.) 

7 
The  peculiar  language  of  the  lover's  code  has  been  touched  on 
above ;  it  has  found  its  way  into  all  Ovidian  literature  as  will 
be  seen  hereafter,  and  was  derived  not  only  from  Ovid's  amatory 
writings,  but  from  his  Heroides  and  the  Metamorphoses.  The 
Ars  amatoria,  however,  can  illustrate  this  language  best.  The 
lover  burns ;  he  is  consumed  by  flames : 

Quo  me  fixit  Amor,  quo  me  violentius  ussit.     (I,  23.) 
Flammaque  in  arguto  saepe  reperta  foro.      (I,  80.) 

Utile  propositum,  saevas  extinguere  flammas, 

Nee  servum  vitii  pectus  habere  sui.    (Mem.  am.  53-4.) 

Juan  Ruiz  says: 

Eres  padre  del  fuego,  pariente  de  la  llama; 
mas  arde  e  mas  se  quema  qualquier  que  te  mas  ama; 
Amor,  quien  te  mas  sigue,  quemasle  el  cuerpo  e  alma, 

[etc.   (st.  197.) 

The  symptoms  of  Ovid's  lovers  are  easily  detected;  they  rave  and 
become  demented;  they  lose  their  appetite  and  sleep,  they  grow 
thin,  tremble,  sigh  and  become  pale;  this  applies,  of  course,  to 
men  and  women  alike.    A  single  example  will  have  to  suffice : 

Palleat  omnis  amans:   hie  est  color  aptus  amanti. 

Hie  decet:  hoc  multi  non  valuisse  putant. 
Pallidus  in  Lyrice  silvis  errabat  Orion; 

Pallidus  in  lenta  Naide  Daphnis  erat. 
Arguat  et  macies  animum;  nee  turpe  putaris, 

Palliolum  nitidis  imposuisse  comis. 
Attenuant  iuvenum  vigilatae  corpora  noctes, 

Curaque  et  in  magno  qui  fit  amore  dolor. 

(Ars.  amat.    I,  729-36.) 


42  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Compare  Juan  Ruiz : 

Traes  enloquecjidos  a  muchos  con  tu  saber 

iaseslos  perder  el  sueflo,  el  corner  y  el  bever;   (st.  184.) 

De  como  enflaqueses  las  gentes  e  las  dapnas, 
muchos    lioros   ay   desto;  ....      (st.  188.) 

Anda  el  cora^on  syn  cuerpo  en  tus  cadenas, 
penssando  e  sospirando  por  las  cosas  ajenas.     (st.  210.) 

Manera  as  de  diablo  a  doquier  que  tu  mores; 
fases  tenblar  los  omes,  demudar  las  colores, 
perder  seso  e  f abla,  sentyr  muchos  dolores : 
t raves  los  omes  ciegos,  que  oyen  tus  loores.     (st.  405.) 


In  the  Ars  amatoria  and  the  Remedia  amoris,  the  Judgment 
of  Paris,  the  victory  of  Venus  over  Juno  and  Minerva  is  fre- 
quently referred  to : 

Luce  deas  caeloque  Paris  spectavit  aperto, 
Cum  dixit  Veneri:  vincis  utramque,  Venus. 

{Ars  am.  I,  247-8.) 

Virginibus  curae  grataque  forma  sua  est. 
Nam  cur  in  Phrygiis   Iunonem  et  Pallada   silvis 

Nunc  quoque  iudicium  non  tenuisse  pudet?    (I,  624-6.) 

lam   dea   laudatae   dederat   sua   premia   formae, 
Colle  sub  Idaeo  vincere  digna  duas;     (1,683-4.) 

Utraque   formosae   Paridi  potuere  videri; 

Sed  sibi  collatam  vicit  utramque  Venus.    (Bern.  am.   711-2.) 

The  fall  of  Troy  is  also  mentioned  very  often,  the  great  events 
brought  about  by  the  love  of  Paris  and  Helen : 

Capta  vides  sero  Pergama,  capta  tamen.  (Ars  am.  1,478.) 

lam  nurus  ad  Priamum  diverso  venerat  orbe, 

Graiaque  in  Iliacis  moenibus  uxor  erat.    (I,  685-6.) 

Talis  ab  armiferis  Priameius  hospes  Amyclis 

Candida  cum  rapta  coniuge  vela  dedit;     (11,5-6.) 

The  story  of  the  deception  of  Menelaus  is  told  II,  359  ff . ;  cf .  also 
Remedia  amoris,  773-6. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  43 

Ovid  praises  the  excellence  of  his  remedia;  if  famous  lovers  had 
had  him  for  a  preceptor,  they  would  have  been  cured  of  their 
passion : 

Redde  Parin  nobis,  Helenen  Menelaus  habebit, 
Nee  manibus  Danais  Pergama  victa  cadent. 

(Bern.  am.  65-6.) 

Classical  reminiscences  are  singularly  few  in  Juan  Ruiz;  the 
following  stanza  which  speaks  of  Troy,  the  Judgment  of  Paris, 
and  the  love  of  Paris  and  Helen  is,  therefore,  striking : 

Por  cobdujia   feciste   a  Troya  destroyr, 
por  la  mangana  escripta,  que  se  no  deviera  escrevir. 
quando  la  dio  a  Venus  Paris,  por  le  indusir. 
que  troxo  a  Elena  que  cobdiciava  servir.    (st.  223.) 

The  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  letters  of  the  Heroides  also  speak 
of  the  Judgment  of  Paris,  while  the  twelfth  and  thirteenth  books 
of  the  Metamorphoses  recount  the  history  of  the  Trojan  war. 

9 
The  lover,  after  gratifying  his  passion,  experiences  physical 
lassitude  and  mental  depression  mingled  with  regret : 
At  simul  ad  rnetas  venit   finita  voluptas, 

Lassaque  cum  tota  corpora  mente  iacent; 
Duin  piget,  et  nullam  malis  tetigisse  puellam, 

Tacturusque  tibi  non  videare  diu,  etc.     (Bern.  am.   413-16.) 

In  El  Libro  de  buen  amor  we  find : 

Ome,  ave  o  bestia,  a  que  amor  retiente, 
desque  cunple  luxuria  luego  se  arrepiente; 
entristesese  en  punto,  luego  flaquesa  siente; 
acortase  la  vida:  quien  lo  dixo,  non  miente.    (st.  274.) 

10 
Ovid  tells  us  on  various  occasions  that  to  become  successful 
lovers  we  must  read  the  precepts  of  his  Grammar  of  Love;  note, 
for  example : 

Si  quis  in  hoc  artem  populo  non  novit  amandi, 
Me  legat,  et  lecto  carmine  doctus  amet.    (I,  1-2.) 

Non  satis  est  venisse  tibi  me  vate  puellam : 

Arte  mea  capta  est;  arte  tenenda  mea  est.  (11,11-12.) 


44  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

And  at  the  close  of  Books  n  and  in  he  says :  when  the  lover  is 
victorious  "inscribat  spoliis:  Naso  magister  erat."  In  the 
Remedia  amoris  he  adds : 

Quin  etiam  docui,  qua  possis  arte  parari;   (v.  9.) 

Naso  legendus  erat,  tunc  cum  didicistis  amare;   (v.  71.) 

Don  Amor,  who  calls  Ovid  his  pupil,  advises  Juan  Kuiz  to  read 
and  obey  his  precepts,  referring  without  doubt  to  such  advice  as 
'  his  pupil. '  and  after  him,  Juan  Ruiz,  had  set  down : 

Ssy  mis  castigos  fases,  non  te  dira  muger  non. 

Ssi  tu  fasta  agora  cosa  non  rrecabdeste 
de  duerias  e  de  otras  que  dises  que  ameste, 
tornate  a  tu  culpa,  pucs  por  ti  lo  erreste, 
porque  a  mi  non  veniste  nin  viste  nin  proveste. 

Quesiste  ser  maestro  ante  que  dis^ipulo  ser, 
et  non  sabes  la  manera  como  es  deprender; 
oye  e  leye  mis  castigos,  e  sabelos  bien  faser, 
recabdaras  la  dueiia,  e  sabras  otras  tener.     (st.  425-7.) 

11 
Ovid  frequently  gives  free  rein  to  descriptions  of  physical 
traits  of  women,  indulging  in  pagan  obscenity  at  the  close  of  both 
Books  ii  and  in  of  the  Ars  amatoria;  cf.  also  the  description  of 
Corinna,  Amoves,  I,  5.  The  following  verses  especially  seem  to 
have  been  recalled  by  Juan  Ruiz. 

Quam  paene  admonui,  ne  trux  caper  iret  in  alas, 

Neve  forent  duris  aspera  crura  pilis!    (Ars  am.  Ill,  193-4.) 

The  Spanish  poet  has,  among  many  other  passages  which  savor 

of  the  tone  of  Ovid,  the  following : 

w.      Si  dis  que  los  sobacos  tiene  un  poco  mojados 

E  que  ha  chicas  piernas  e  luengos  los  costados, 

ancheta  de  caderas,  pies  chicos,  socavados, 

tal  muger  non  la  fallan  en  todos  los  mercados. 

En  la  cama  muy  loca,  en  la  casa  muy  cuerda: 
non  olvides  tal  duefia,  mas  della  te  acuerda; 
esto  que  te  castigo  con  Ovidio  concuerda, 
e  para  aquesta  cata  la  fyna  avaneuerda. 

Guarte  byen  que  non  sea  oellosa  nin  barbuda,  etc. 

(st.  445-8.) 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  'Renascence  in  Spain  45 

12 
Ovid  gives  examples  of  the  extremes  to  which  furious  passions 
have  carried  some  women ;  he  says : 

Pareior  in  nobis  [in  men]  nee  tam  furiosa  libido; 

Legitimum  finem  flamma  virilis  habet.    (A.  a.-I,  281-2.) 

Then  he  recounts  the  criminal  loves  of  Byblis,  Myrrha  and  Pasi- 
phae ;  and  subsequently  his  advice  is :  do  not  give  gifts,  lest  you 
receive  nothing  in  return,  and  continue  to  lose  like  the  gambler: 

At  quod  non  dederis,  semper  videare  daturas. 

Sie  dominum  sterilis  saepe  fefellit  ager. 
Sic,  ne  perdiderit,  non  cessat  perdere  lusor; 

Et  revocat  eupidas  alea  saepe  manus.    (-1,  449-52.) 

but  once  gained,  her  love  is  yours: 

Ne  dederit  gratis:  quae  dedit,  usque  dabit.    (-1,454.) 

Of  these  extremes  of  woman's  passion  Juan  Ruiz  says: 

Ffas  le  una  vegada  la  verguen<ja  perder, 
por  aquesto  fas  mucho  sy  la  podieres  aver; 
desque   una   ves   pierde  verguen§a   la   muger, 
mas  diabluras  fase  de  quantas  ome  quier. 

Talente  de  mugeres,  quien  le  podria  entender, 
sus  malas  maestrias  e  su  mucho  mal  saber? 
quando  son  encjendidas  e  mal  quieren  faser, 
alma  e  cuerpo  e  fama,  todo  lo  dexan  perder. 

And  then  coming  to  the  simile  of  the  gambler: 

Desque  la  verguenca  pierde  el  tafur  al  tablero, 

sy  el  pellote  juga,  jugara  el  braguero;  etc.    (-468-70.) 

13 

Do  not  neglect  or  slight  your  love  lest  she  look  elsewhere  for  a 
compensation ;  Ovid  dwells  at  length  on  the  risk  of  this  procedure 
and  cites  the  fate  of  Menelaus  as  a  case  in  point : 

Vanescitque   absens  et   novus  intrat   amor. 
Dum  Menelaus  abest,  Helene,  ne  sola  iaceret  , 

Hospitis  est  tepido  nocte  recepta  sinu.      (11,358-60.) 


46  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Juan  Ruiz  says: 

Non  olvides  la  cluefia,  dicho  te  lo  e  desuso ; 
muger,  molyno  e  huerta,  syenpre  quieren  el  uso: 
non  se  pagan  de  disanto  en  poridat  nin  ascuso; 
nunca  quieren  olvido:  trovador  lo  conpusso.    (st.  472.) 

Then,  as  Ovid  gave  us  as  an  example  the  story  of  Menelaus,  Juan 
Ruiz  tells  us  that  of  Pitas  Payas,  un  pyntor  de  Bretaiia,  who  was 
similarly  deceived  during  his  absence.  Logically  in  the  Remedia 
amoris  we  are  told  that  prolonged  absence  heals  or  cools  love, 
and  makes  the  flames  die  down.  In  El  Libro  de  buen  amor  this 
figure  is  repeated.     Ovid  says : 

Nee  satis  esse  puta  discedere:   lentus  abesto, 

Dura  perdat  vires  sitque  sine  igne  cinis.    (v.,  243-4.) 

Juan  Ruiz  has : 

Si  la  non  sigo,  non  uso,  el  amor  se  perdera; 
sy  veye  que  la  olvido,  ella   otro  amara: 
el  amor  con  uso  crece,  desusando  menguara, 
do  la  muger  olvidares,  ella  te  olvidara. 

Do  anadieres  la  lefia,  cre<je  syn  dubda  el  fuego; 

si  la  lefia  se  tirare,  el  fuego  menguara  luego. 

el  amor  e  bienquerengia  crege  con  usar  el  juego : 

si  la  muger  olvidares,  poco  precjiara  tu  ruego.    (st.  689-90.) 

14 
Be  on  friendly  terms  with  all  those  who  surround  the  woman 
you  desire,  her  husband,  a  rival,  attendants,  etc. ;  gain  their  good 
will  by  means  of  gifts ;  a  wealthy  lover  is  most  acceptable ;  money 
is  all-powerful,  this  is  the  age  of  gold : 

Sint   etiam  tua  vota,   viro   placuisse   puellae. 
Utilior  vobis  lactus  amicus  erit.     (I,  579-80.) 

Sed  prius  ancillam  captandae  nosse  puellae 

Cura  sit;  accessus  molliet  ilia  tuos.    (I,  351-2  and  ff.) 

Nee  pudor  ancillas,  ut  quaeque  erit  online  prima, 
Nee  tibi  sit  servos  demeruisse  pudor.    (11,251-2.) 

Sed  tamen  et  servo,  levis  est  impensa,  roganti 
Porrige  fortunae  munera  parva  tuae.     (11,255-6.) 

Fac  plebem,  mihi  crede,  tuam:  sit  semper  in  ilia 

Ianitor,  et  thalami  qui  iacet  ante  fores.     (II,  259-60.) 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Eenascence  in  Spain  47 

Endure  a  rival : 

Rivalem  patienter  habe:   victoria  tecum 

Stabit,    etc.      (11,539-40.) 
and 

Duramodo   sit   dives,   barbarus   ipse   placet. 

Aurea  sunt  vere  nunc  saecula:  plurimus  auro 

Venit  honos,  auro  conciliatur  amor.     (II,  276-8.) 

Juan  Ruiz  advises  that  similar  methods  be  pursued  by  the 

lover  with  regard  to  those  who  are  acquainted  with  her : 

Otrosi  quando  vyeres  a  quien  usa  con  ella, 
quier  sea  suyo  o  non,  fablale  por  amor  della; 
sy  podieres,   dal  algo  non  le  ayas  querella, 
ca  estas  cosas  pueden  a  la  muger  traella. 

Por  poquilla   cosa   del  tu  aver  quel  dyeres, 

servirte  ha  lealmente,   fara  lo   que   quisieres, 

fara  por  los  dineros  todo  quanto  le  pidieres, 

que  mucho  o  poco,  dal  cada  que  podieres.38    (st.  488-9.) 

Then  follows  the  well-known  disquisition  on  the  power  of  money, 

a  characteristic  stanza  being: 

Toda  muger  del  mundo  e  duefia  de  altesa 

pagase   del    dinero   e   de   mucha   riquesa; 

yo  nunca  vy  fermosa,  que  quisyese  pobresa: 

do  son  muchos  dineros,  y  es  mucha  noblesa.    (st.  508.) 

15 

If  you  can  sing  or  entertain  your  choice  otherwise,  such  gifts 

may  prove  helpful : 

Si  vox  est,  canta;   si  mollia  brachia,  salta; 
*Et  quacumque  potes  dote  placere,  place.    (I,  595-6.) 

3s  Iu  the  Pamphilus  these  precepts   of  Ovid  had  taken  the  following 
form   (125  ff.): 

Et  famulos  famulasque  domus  sibi  sepe  loquentes 

Allice  pollicitis  muneribusque  tuis, 
TJt  semper  referant  de  te  bona  multa  vicissim, 
Et  pascant  dominam  laudibus  usque  tuam. 
Juan  Ruiz  has,  st.  638: 

Quando  vieres  algunos  de  los  de  su  compafia, 
Fasles  muchos  plaseres,  fablales  bien  con  mafia, 
Quando  esto  [ve]  la  duefia,  su  cora§on  se  bafia; 
Servidor  lisonjero  a  su  sefior  engafia. 
Ovid  treats  this  precept  at  great  length,  and  it  seems  more  likely  that 
Juan  Ruiz  had  the  Ars  amatoria  in  mind. 


48  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

In  Juan  Ruiz  we  find: 

Sy  sabes  estromentos  byen  taner  o  tenplar, 

sy  sabes  o  avienes  en  fermoso  cantar, 

a  las  vegadas  poco   en  onesto  lugar, 

do  la  muger  te  oya,  non  dexes  de  provar.    (st.  515.) 

16 
The  woman's  rage  may  be  an  excellent  indication  that  you  are 
dear  to  her: 

Me  ego  sim,  cuius  laniet  furiosa  capillos; 

Me  ego  sim,  teneras  cui  petat  ungue  genas; 
Quem  videat  lacrimans,  quem  torvis  spectet  ocellis; 
Quo  sine  non  possit  vivere,  posse  velit.    (II,  451-4.) 

Compare  Juan  Ruiz : 

Quanto  es  mas  sosafiada,  quanto  es  mas  corrida, 

quanto  es  mas  por  ome  majada  e  ferida, 

tanto  mas  por  el  anda  muerta,  loca  perdida; 

non  cuyda  ver  la  ora  que  con  el  seya  yda.    (st.  520.) 

17 

Ovid  compares  the  pursuit  of  woman  by  man  with  the  chase 

of  the  stag  (cervus)  : 

Querenda  est  oculis  apta  puella  tuis. 
Scit  bene  venator,  cervis  ubi  retia  tendat;    (1,44-5.) 

Juan  Ruiz  has  a  similar  figure : 

A  toda  cosa  brava  grand  tienpo  la  amanssa; 
la   cierva  montesyna   mucho   segida   canssa, 
ca<jador,  que  la  sigue,  tomala  quando  descanssa: 
la  dueiia  mucho  brava  usandose  faz  manssa.    (st.  524.) 

18 
It  may  prove  ill-advised  for  the  lover  to  become  involved  with 
the  servant  of  his  mistress : 

Quaeris,  an  hanc  ipsam  prosit  violare  ministram? 
Talibus  admissis  alea  grandis  inest. 

Casus  in  eventu  est:  licet  haee  indulgeat  ausis, 
Consilium  tamen  est  abstinuisse  meum.    (I,  375-80.) 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Benascence  in  Spain  49 

El  Libro  de  buen  amor  has  the  same  idea  about  the  go-between : 
Guardate  non  te  eribuelvas  con  la  casamentera ; 
donear  non  la  quieras,   ca   es  una  manera 
que  perder  te  faria  a  la  enten[de]dera: 
ca  una  conbruega  de  otra  sienpre  tiene  dentera.    (st.  527.) 

19 
Wine  stimulates  the  passions ;  the  Ars  amatoria  has : 
Vina  parant  animos,  faciuntque  caloribus  aptos; 

Cura   fugit   multo   diluiturque  mero. 
Tunc  veniunt  risus,  tunc  pauper  cornua  surnit, 
Tunc  dolor  et  curae  rugaque  frontis  abit. 

Illic   saepe   animos  invenum   rapuere   puellae; 
Et  Venus  in  vinis,  ignis  in  igne,  fuit. 

(I,  237-44;  cf.  also  Bern.  am.    805.) 

But  when  wine  incites  to  quarrel  and  bloodshed,  do  not  drink : 

Iurgia  praecipue  vino  stimulata  eaveto 

Et  nimium  faciles  ad  fera  bella  manus. 
Occidit  Eurytion  stulte  data  vina  bibendo.     (1,591-3.) 

The  lover 's  breath  must  not  be  offensive : 

Nee  male  odorati  sit  tristis  anhelitus  oris;  (I.  521.) 

Juan  Ruiz,  perhaps  with  a  twinkle  in  his  eye,  suggests  moderate 

drinking,  for  too  much  wine  arouses  the  evil  passions : 

Buenas  costunbres  deves  en  ty  syenpre  aver; 

guardate  sobre  todo  de  mucho  vino  bever,  etc.    (st.  528.) 

and  then  he  tells  the  story  of  the  hermit  who  after  drinking  too 
much  wine  (mucho  vino  syn  tyento)  at  the  instigation  of  the 
devil,  committed  crimes  for  which  he  was  sent  to  the  gallows ; 
consequently : 

en  el  bever  demas  yaz  todo  mal  provecho.    (st.  543.) 

Besides,  wine  makes  the  breath  offensive,  a  reason  why  a  lover 
should  not  drink  it : 

Ffase  oler  el  huelgo,  que  es  tacha  muy  mala; 
huele  muy  mal  la  boca,  non  ay  cosa  quel  vala: 
quema   las  assaduras,   el   fygado   trascala: 
si  amar  quieres  duefias,  el  vyno  non  te  cala.    (st.  545.) 


50  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

20 
Conceal  the  fact  that  you  are  loving  more  than  one  woman  at 
the  same  time;  infidelity  on  the  part  of  the  husband  enrages  the 
wife;  Ovid  has: 

Sed  neque  fulvus  aper  media  tain  saevua  in  ira, 

Fulmineo  rabidos  cum  rotat  ore  canes; 
Nee  lea,  cum  catulia  lactentibus  ubera  praebet; 

Nee  brevis  ignaro  vipera  laesa  pede: 
Femina  quam  socii  deprensa  pellice  lecti 

Ardet,  et    in  vultu  pignora  mentis  habet. 
In  ferrum  flammasque  ruit,   positoque  decore 

Fertur,   ut   Aonii   cornibus  icta   dei. 
Hoc  bene  compositos,  hoc  firmos  solvit  amores: 

Crimina  sunt  cautis  ista  timenda  viris. 
Coniugis  admissum  violataque  iura  maritae 

Barbara  per  natos  Phasia  ulta  suos. 
Altera  dira  parens  haec  est,  quam  cernis,  hirundo: 

Aspice,  signatum  sanguine  pectus  habet. 
Nee  mea  vos  uni  damnat  censura   puellae. 

Di  melius!   vix  hoc  nupta  tenere  potest. 
Ludite;  sed  furto  <■<  h  tur  culpa  modesto  ;  etc.    (II,  373  ff.) 

Juan  Ruiz  recommends  to  the  man  a  tactful  silence,  in  his  love 
affairs;  unfaithfulness  must  be  kept  secret: 

Ante  ella  non  alabes  otra   de  pares§er, 

ca  en  punto  la  faras  luego  entristecer ; 

coydara  que  a  la  otra  querias  ante  veneer, 

poderte  ya   tal  achaque  tu  pleyto  empeescer. 

De  otra  muger  non  le  digas,  mas  a  ella  alaba, 
el  trebejo  duena  non  lo  quiere  en  otra  aljaba, 
rrason  de  fermosura  en  ella  la  alaba: 
quien  contra   esto  fase,  tarda  e  non  recabda. 
and 

De  una   eossa   te  guarda  quando  amares  una, 

non  te  sepa   que  amas  otra  muger  alguna ; 

sy  non,  todo  tu  afan  es  sonbra  de  luna, 

e  es  como  quien  sienbra  en  rio  o  en  laguna.    (st.  559-64.) 

Shortly  after  this  stanza,  it  will  be  remembered,  Juan  Ruiz's 
adaptation  of  the  Pamphilus  di  anion  begins,  and  a  few  char- 
acteristic passages  will  be  given  below  to  illustrate  his  indebted- 
ness to  thai  source.  However  open  to  argument  some  of  the 
adduced  borrowings  from   Ovid  may  seem,  there  can  be  little 


1913]  SchcviU:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  51 

question  that  El  Libro  de  buen  amor  betrays  acquaintance  with 
the  Augustan  poet.  From  its  own  evidence,  we  know  that  Ovid 
was  included  in  the  mediaeval  courses  of  study  of  the  schools ;  he 
was  known  in  Spain  to  writers  before  Juan  Ruiz 's  time ;  the  auto- 
biographical character  of  El  Libro  de  buen  amor  reveals  the 
mental  equipment  of  its  author  at  every  turn,39  and,  consequently, 
when  Juan  Ruiz  mentions  Ovid  as  one  of  his  sources,  it  seems 
unreasonable  to  conclude  that  he  did  not  mean  Ovid,  but  one 
"Panfilo";  the  peculiar  reference  "Panfilo  e  Nason"  admits  the 
belief  that  Juan  Ruiz  took  "Panfilo"  to  be  the  author  of  the 
mediaeval  play,  for  had  he  considered  Ovid  the  author  of  Pam- 
philus  de  amore,  the  combination  ' '  Panfilo  e  Nason ' '  would  make 
nonsense;  there  is  no  mention  of  Ovid  in  the  mediaeval  produc- 
tion, therefore  an  independent  acquaintance  with  the  Ars  ama- 
toria  and  perhaps  the  other  works  of  an  erotic  character  must 
have  made  Juan  Ruiz  aware  of  the  Ovidian  nature  of  the  ideas 
in  the  Pamphilus :  hence  his  association  of  the  names  ' '  Panfilo  e 
Nason,"  and  the  fusion  of  their  influence  on  his  works. 

C 
One   of  the   best   examples   of   this   fusion   is   the   following 
group  of  parallels ;  the  lover  is  advised  to  persist  in  his  suit.    The 
Ars  amatoria  expresses  this  precept  in  various  ways.     The  first 
justifies  the  writing  of  the  "Grammar  of  love": 

Arte  citae  veloque  rates  remoque  reguntur, 

Arte  leves  currus;  arte  regendus  Amor.    (I,  3-4.) 

All  women  can  be  won : 

Prima  tuae  menti  veniat  flducia,   cunctas 
Posse  capi;    capies:    tu  modo  tende  plagas. 

Vere  prius   volucres   taceant,   aestate   cicadae; 
Maenalius  lepori  det   sua  terga  canis, 

Femina  quam  iuveni  blande  temptata  repugnet.    (I,  269-73.) 

Ergo  age,  ne   dubita   cunctas   superare  puellas. 
Vix  erit  e  multis  quae  neget  una  tibi.     (1,343-4.) 


39  Cf.  Die  Fabeln  des  Erzpriesters  von  Hita  im  Bahmen  der  mittelalter- 
lichen  Fabelliteratur,  von  Otto  Tacke,  in  Bomanische  Forschungen,  vol.  31, 
2,  pp.  550-705  (1912). 


52  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Quod  rogat  ilia,  timet;  quod  non  rogat,  optat,  ut  instes. 
Insequere;  et  voti  postmodo  compos  eris.    (I,  485-6.) 

Ut  potiare,  roga:  tantum  cupit  ilia  rogari.     (1,711.) 

Be  subservient  to  her  wishes : 

Nocte  domum  repetens  epulis  perf uncta  redebit : 

Tunc  quoque  pro  servo,  si  vocat  ilia,  veni.    (II,  227-8.) 

At,  quod  eris  per  te  facturus,  et  utile  credis, 

Id  tua  te  facito  semper  arnica  roget.     (II,  287-8.) 

Quod  facturus  eras,  debeat  ilia  tibi: 
Utilitas  tua  sit:  titulus  donetur  amicae.    (II,  292-3.) 

The  Pamphilus  puts  into  the  mouth  of  Venus  these  precepts, 
which  have  the  character  of  a  brief  resume  of  the  original  source : 
....  Labor  improbus  omnia  vincit. 

Qualibet  et  poteris  ipse  labore  frui. 
Tu   monstrare  tuos  animos   nulli   verearis, 

Vix  erit  ex  mille  quae  neget  una  tibi; 
Quamque  precando  petis,  prius  aspera  forte  negabit, 
Sed  leve  pondus  habet  illius  asperitas. 

Ars  animos  frangit  et  fortes  obruit  urbes; 

Arte  cadunt  turres;  arte  levatur  onus; 
Et  piscis  liquidis  deprenditur  arte  sub  undis; 

Et  pedibus  siccis  per  mare  currit  homo. 

Letum  semper  ei  te  letis  vultibus  offer: 

Est  cum  leticia  pulchrior  omnis  homo. 
Nee  nimium  taceas,  nee  verba  superflua  dicas,  etc. 

Incipe:  spe  melius  dedit  et  dabit  omnia  tempus, 
Nee  timor  ullus  erit  in  quibus  esse  times. 

Non  tibi  plus  dicam;  vinces  studiosus  amicam 
Inceptumque  viis  mille  patebit  opus.     (71  ff.) 

Some  of  the  verses  from  Ovid  were  compared  above  with  passages 
from  Juan  Ruiz  because  of  their  more  probable  relation.     El 
Libro  de  buen  amor  repeats  a  portion  of  the  Pamphilus  as  follows : 
Toda  muger,  que  mucho  otea  o  es  rrysuena, 
dyl  sin  miedo  tus  coytas,  non  te  enbargue  verguefia, 
a  penas  de  mill  una  te  desprecie,  mas  desdena; 
amarte  a  la  duena,  que  en  ello  piensa  e  sueiia. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  53 

Syrve  la,  non  te  enojes,  syrviendo  el  amor  crec,e; 

el  servi§io  en  el  bueno  nunca  muere  nin  perescje; 

sy  se  tarda,  non  se  pierde,  el  amor  nunca  fallese, 

que  el  grand  trabajo  todas  las  cosas  venge.  (cf.  p.  34  &  n.  36.) 

El  Amor  leo  a  Ovydyo  en  la  escuela, 

que  non  ha  muger  en  el  mundo  nin  grande  nin  moc,uela, 

que  trabajo  e  servigio  non  la  traya  al  espuela, 

que  tarde  o  que  aina  creye  que  de  ti  se  duela.    (st.  610-2.) 

Con  arte  se  quebrantan  los  corac/mes  duros, 

tomanse  las  cjivdades,   derribanse  los  muros, 

cahen  las  torres  fuertes,  al^anse  pesos  duros, 

por  arte  juran  muchos,  por  arte  son  perjuros.    (st.  618.) 

Por  arte  los  pescados  se  toman  so  las  ondas, 

E  los  pies  bien  enxutos  corren  por  mares  ondas, 

Con  arte  e  con  oficio  muchas  cosas  abondas, 

Por  arte  non  ha  cosa  a  que  tu  non  rrespondas.    (st.  619.) 

The  verses  "a  penas  de  mill  una  te  desprecie,  etc.,"  and  "vix 
erit  e  multis  quae  neget  una  tibi,"  show  how  some  ideas  are 
identically  expressed  by  the  three  poets.  One  more  example  will 
suffice.  Gentle  force  may  be  used  with  success;  the  Pamphilus 
took  this  idea  from  Ovid,  by  whom  it  is  stated  in  various  ways ; 
for  example : 

Quis  sapiens  blandis  non  misceat  oscula  verbis? 

Ilia  licet  non  det,  non  data  sume  tamen. 
Pugnabit  primo  fortassis,  et  'Improbe'  dicet; 

Pugnando  vinci  sed  tamen  ilia  volet.     (I,  663-6.) 

The  Pamphilus  de  Amove  imitates  this  as  follows : 

Quod  vix  sperasti,  iam  dabit  ipsa  tibi: 
Non  sinit  interdum  pudor  illi  prometere  votum, 

Sed  quod  habere  cupit,  hoc  magis  ipsa  negat: 
Pulchrius  est  illi  vi  perdere  virginitatem 

Quam  dicat:  de  me  fac  modo  velle  tuum.     (110-14.) 

This  idea  was  taken  up  by  Juan  Ruiz : 

Por  mejor  tyene  la  duefia  de  ser  vn  poco  forcada 
que  desir:    fas  tu  talente,  como  desvergonqada ; 
con  poquilla  de  fuer§a  fynca  mas  desculpada: 
en  todas  las  animalyas  esta  es  cosa  prouada.      (631.) 


54  Un  u<  rsity  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

El  miedo  e  la  verguenga  fase  a  las  mugeres 
non  faser  lo  que  quieren  byen  como  tu  lo  quieres; 
non  fynca  por  non  querer  cada  que  podieres, 
toma  de  la  dueiia  lo  que  della  quisieres.      (634.) 

Finally  it  is  of  interest  to  compare  Trotaconventos.  the  famous 
go-between  of  Juan  Ruiz,  with  the  old  hag  in  the  Pamphilus,  and 
with  such  prototypes  as  the  Dypsas  of  Ovid  {Amoves,  1,8.)  I 
am  not  aware  that  Ovid's  professional  peddler,  the  institor,  who 
sells  articles  to  the  lovers,  is  at  all  related  to  Trotaconventos.  The 
similarity  of  their  trade,  however,  might  justify  their  being  men- 
tioned together,  and  each  must  have  been  in  his  or  her  particular 
calling  a  well-known  character.    Ovid  tells  us : 

....  invenit   artem 

Feniina.  qua  cupidi  carpat  amantis  opes. 
Institor  ad    dominant   veniet   discinetus   emacem, 

Expediet    merees    teque    sedente    suas. 
Quas  ilia  inspicias.  sapere  ut  videare,  rogabit; 

Oscula  deinde  dabit;  deinde  rogabit,  emas.    (1,419-24.) 

Trotaconventos  also  hawks  her  ware : 

Como  lo  an  de  uso  estas  tales  buhonas, 
andan  de  casa  en  casa  vendiendo  muchas  donas; 
non  se  rreguardan  dellas:  estan  con  las  personas, 
ffasen  eon  mucho  viento  andar  las  atahonas.    (st.  700.) 

Another  character  in  Ovid  is  the  old  woman  who  is  called  in  to 
purify  the  couch  and  room  of  the  beloved  one  when  she  is  ill ;  or, 
what  is  more  likely,  who  administers  remedies  when  the  patient 
is  pining  through  unrequited  love;  she,  too,  could  have  served  as 
a  messenger  and  go-between: 

Et  veniat.  quae  lustret  anus  lectumque  locumque; 

Praeferat  et  tremula  sulfur  et  ova  manu.    (II,  329-30.) 

The  influence  of  Ovid  upon  the  more  or  less  stereotyped  literary 
figure  of  the  old  woman,  the  professional  procuress,  who  is  to 
become  famous  through  the  character  of  Celestina  and  her  des- 
cendants in  subsecpient  fiction,  will  be  taken  up  again  later,  when 
Hie  various  inherited  traits  of  the  Ovidian  novel  are  discussed. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  55 


THE  ART  LYRIC  OF  THE  FIFTEENTH  CENTURY 

A  continuation  of  certain  peculiar  features  of  the  poetical 
tradition  which  had  originated  with  the  art  of  the  Provencal 
poets  and  subsequently  found  expression  in  Galicia  and  Portugal 
can  be  traced  in  the  literature  of  Castile,  as  is  well  known, 
later  than  elsewhere  in  the  Peninsula ;  it  appears  in  the  Castilian 
art  or  court  lyric  which  was  perfected  notably  during  the  first 
half  of  the  fifteenth  century.  This  is  essentially  an  imported 
art  which  was  inspired  by  foreign  models,  and  incurred  indebted- 
ness to  non-Castilian  forms,  ideas  and  sentiments ;  which,  in  short, 
revived  a  poetical  tradition  that  had  been  first  brought  from 
^southern  France,  and  in  its  subsequent  development  was  modified 
by  a  study  of  the  great  poets  of  Italy.  Moreover,  this  poetical 
tradition  was  influenced  at  all  times,  to  an  extent  which  varied, 
by  some  of  the  chief  poetical  works  of  the  ancients.  The  art  lyric 
therefore  betrays,  in  addition  to  its  formal,  courtly  qualities,  a 
learned,  academic  note. 

Among  highly  respected  classical  authorities  Ovid  holds  an 
important  place.  He  was,  as  we  have  seen,  already  well  known 
I  in  Spain,  for  the  chief  poet  of  the  fourteenth  century,  Juan  Ruiz, 
'  paid  tribute  to  him  by  the  direct  absorption  of  Ovidian  features ; 
owing  also  to  the  various  currents  from  without  which  affected 
Castilian  poetry  of  the  fifteenth  century,  the  influence  of  Ovid's 
works,  already  apparent  in  foreign  poets  of  an  earlier  period,  was 
bound  to  be  reinforced.  Direct  reference  to  his  poems  can  be 
found  here  and  there,  but  we  are  more  interested  in  that  subtile 
influence  emanating  from  what  I  have  called  the  distinct  Ovidian 
inheritance.  This  had  for  the  greater  part  become  nameless  after 
centuries  of  absorption  and  assimilation,  especially  on  the  part 
of  lyric  poetry,  and  many  peculiar  sentiments  and  ideas  were 
no  longer  consciously  connected  with  their  original  source.  Yet 
the  latter  is  none  the  less  apparent  in  the  vocabulary  and  phrase- 
ology of  the  amatory  lyrics  of  that  age. 


56  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Owing  to  the  impossibility  of  examining  in  detail  the  produc- 
tions of  several  hundred  poets  who  nourished  during  the  fifteenth 
century,  notably  all  collections  gathered  in  numerous  Cancio- 
neros,  it  has  become  necessary  to  limit  this  study.  Nor  has 
it  been  my  intention  to  make  this  chapter  more  than  preliminary 
to  my  chief  subject,  the  prose  fiction  of  the  Renascence,  in  order 
to  show  that  the  prestige  of  Ovid  never  waned,  that  it  continued 
to  manifest  itself  without  a  break  in  some  literary  expression. 
It  must,  therefore,  suffice  to  have  presented  the  general  results 
gleaned  from  a  few  Cancioneros  and  supported  by  the  individual 
works  of  several  of  the  chief  poets  of  the  age,  in  the  hope  that 
the  conclusion  will  seem  applicable  to  the  poetry  of  the  fifteenth 
century  as  a  whole.  It  is  only  a  specific  feature  of  the  court 
lyric  which  this  chapter  hopes  to  bring  out,  namely,  reminis- 
cences of  the  mythological  and  erotic  works  of  Ovid.  Of  the 
Cancioneros,  we  shall  examine  first  those  of  Baena,  Stuiiiga  and 
Hernando  del  Castillo;  after  that  the  works  of  the  Marques  de 
Santillana,  Juan  de  Mena  and  Gomez  Manrique  will  be  con- 
sidered. 

The  Cancionero  de  Baena,40  though  composed  of  the  works  of 
various  poets,  often  extremely  unlike  each  other,  shows,  never- 
theless, traces  here  and  there  of  the  tradition  of  Ovid  and  the 
Ovidian  spirit  of  amatory  verse.  The  compiler  himself  says  of 
the  art  of  poesy : 

E  aun  asymismo  es  arte  de  tan  elevado  entendimiento  e  de  tan  sotil 
engefio,  que  la  non  puede  aprender  nin  aver  nin  alcanqar  nin  saber  bien 
nin  commo  deve,  salvo  todo  omme  que  sea  de  muy  altas  e  sotiles  inven^iones, 
e  de  muy  elevada  e  pura  discretion,  e  de  muy  sano  e  derecho  juysio,  e  tal 
que  aya  visto  e  oydo  e  leydo  muchos  e  diverssos  libros  e  escripturas,  e  sepa 
de  todos  lenguajes,  e  aun  que  aya  cursado  cortes  de  rreyes  e  con  grandes 
senores,  e  que  aya  visto  e  platicado  muchos  fechos  del  mundo,  e  flnalmente 
que  sea  noble,  fydalgo  e  cortes  e  mesurado  e  gentil  e  gra<jioso  e  polido  e 
donoso,  e  que  tenga  miel  e  acjicar  e  sal  e  ayre  e  donayre  en  su  rrasonar, 
e  otrosy  que  sea  amado  e  que  siempre  se  pregie  e  se  finia  de  ser  enamorado, 


40  El  Cancionero  de  Juan  Alfonso  de  Baena,  publicado  por  Francisque 
Michel,  con  las  notas  y  los  indices  de  la  edicion  de  Madrid  del  afio 
1851,  2  volumes,  Leipzig,  1860,  with  an  introductory  treatise  "de  la 
poesia  castellana  en  los  siglos  XIV  y  XV";  Menendez  y  Pelayo,  Anto- 
logia,  IV,  Prologo;  Wolf,  Studien,  op.  cit.,  204  ff. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  57 

porque  es  opynion  de  muchos  sabyos  que  todo  omme  que  sea  enamorado, 
conviene  a  saber  que  ame  a  quien  deve,  e  commo  deve,  e  donde  deve,  afirman 
e  disen  qu'el  tal  de  todas  buenas  dotrinas  es  dotado. 

Thus  the  introduction  of  Baena  himself  implies  that  to  be  versed 
in  the  art  of  poesy  or  the  gaya  ciencia  is  to  know  well  the  prin- 
ciples of  love  or  courtship. 

It  is  not  possible  as  a  rule  to  determine  the  influence  of  a 
specific  work  of  Ovid.  The  spirit  or  doctrine  of  the  Ars  Amatoria, 
the  Ergilsse  of  the  Amoves,  the  lamentations  of  the  Heroides, 
the  occasional  love-tales  of  the  Metamorphoses,  at  times  appear 
to  have  become  fused  into  a  single  force.  It  also  becomes  impera- 
tive from  what  has  been  said  above  to  look  for  more  than  patent 
or  deliberate  references  to  Ovid ;  these,  indeed,  may  be.  found  in 
those  stereotyped  allusions  to  Ovid's  mythological  legends,  to  his 
pathetic  heroes  and  heroines,  and  their  unhappy  loves ;  to  the 
tragic  story  of  Troy,  and  the  characters  connected  with  its  fate : 

' '  Ruy  Lopes,  quienquier  lo  oya, 
que  yo  al  nunca  dire: 
vuestro  so  siempre  e  sere, 
aqui  estando  en  Locjoya; 
pero   bivo   en   esta   foya 
viejo  pecador  cansado; 
bien  me  mienbra  j  mal  pecado! 
de  la  estruy^ion  de  Troya. " 

(Villasandino.     vol.  I,  p.  72.) 

This  is  followed  by  a  list  of  such  heroes  as  Achilles,  Hector, 
Aeneas  and  others.  Again  a  desir  by  Diego  Martines  contra  el 
mundo  mentions  the  story  of  Troy  together  with  Aeneas  and 
Dido,  Jason  and  Medea,  Achilles  and  so  on,  II,  p.  29.  On  p.  236 
this  poem  with  variants  is  attributed  to  Sanchez  Calavera  with 
the  more  suitable  heading  contra  el  amor  instead  of  contra  el 
mundo.  In  a  desir  de  loores,  II,  253,  by  Perez  de  Guzman,  we 
have  the  myth  of  Narcissus. 

But  the  subtler  influence  of  Ovid,  "the  great  lover,"  has 
more  interest  for  us,  since  it  shows  itself  in  the  spirit  of  some  of 
the  poets  themselves  as  well  as  in  the  peculiar  phraseology  that 


58  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

characterizes  their  amatory  lyrics.  Moreover,  it  may  be  asserted 
that  at  the  dawn  of  the  Renascence  the  authority  of  Ovid  is 
unmistakably  as  far  reaching  as  that  of  Virgil,  his  only  com- 
petitor as  regards  the  field  of  this  chapter.  The  influence  of  the 
author  of  the  Metamorphoses  and  of  the  Ars  Amatoria,  already 
well  established  in  the  twelfth  century,  continued  to  take  root 
more  and  more ;  it  finally  surpassed  the  prestige  of  Virgil  himself, 
notably  among  writers  of  fiction,  and  continued  to  overshadow 
it  through  the  sixteenth  century. 

Ovid's  theories  of  love,  gleaned  from  his  erotic  portraitures 
and  doctrines,  are  well  known.  Traces  of  them  are  found  in 
mediaeval  love  poetry,  as  we  have  seen  in  the  centuries  hitherto 
examined ;  the  same  inheritance  is  manifest  in  the  art  lyric. 
Love  is  personified  frequently,  it  is  a  god :  the  classical  poets, 
Ovid,  especially,  speak  of  the  god  of  love  who  inflicts  wounds; 
me  fixit  Amor,  Ars  Amatoria,  I,  23,  puer  Veneris,  165 ;  in  the 
Tristia  5,  1,  22,  he  is  pharetratus;  in  the  Amoves  I,  2,  17-18,  his 
power  is  portrayed.  Reminiscent  of  this  conception  are:  the 
apostrophe  of  Villasandino,  "Ay  deus  de  amor"  I,  30,  and  such 
phrases  as  are  directed  to  Love  (Amor)  :  "me  feriste  con  la  tu 
cruel  espada, "  and  "la  tu  cruel  lanca  me  bastece  de  temor. "  and 
"quanclo  tiendes  el  tu  arco,  fieres  de  muy  mala  guisa"  (by  Gomez 
Perez  Patino  II,  72)  in  which  Love  carries  all  weapons  of  the 
warrior;  and  "unos  te  llaman  senor,  etc.,"  II,  238  (Sanchez 
Calavera)  ;  "la  muy  alta  corte  del  dios  d'amor;  la  grant  Venus, 
etc.,"  (Imperial),  I,  224;  "Venus  e  Amor,"  (Medina),  225. 

Love  is  a  disease  according  to  the  Ovidian  doctrines,  and  the 
patient  is,  therefore,  in  need  of  'remedies'  prescribed  by  a  'doc- 
tor' in  the  form  of  'medicines';  this  may  be  a  logical  sequel  to 
the  idea  that  Love  inflicted  wounds  with  his  arrows.  The  most 
common  words  of  the  Latin  vocabulary  are  morbus,  malum, 
remedium,  medicina,  mcdicus,  etc.  The  verb  is,  of  course,  sanare, 
or  curare.    Villasandino  I,  20,  yields  one  of  numerous  examples: 

' '  Sefiora,   creo 
que   d'aquesta   enfermedat, 
tarde  o  nunca  ssanare. 


and 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  59 

Medico  nin  Qtirugiano 
non   an  tanta  abtoridat 
que  me  pudiese  dar  ssano 
de  perfeta  sanidat,"  etc. 

As  Love  has  proved  fatal  with  so  many  heroes  and  heroines  in 
Ovid,  so  with  some  of  the  medieval  poets  Love  is  described  as 
merciless;  the  song  attributed  by  Baena  to  Macias  el  enamorado: 
"Amor  cruel  e  bryoso, "  II,  5,  is  less  well  known  than  the  story  of 
the  author's  tragic  end.41    Ovid  has: 

Seu  malus,  alterius  dicor  amore  mori. 

(Amoves,  II,  7,  10.) 

or 

turn   persuadentia    verba 
Addat  et  insano  juret  amore  mori. 

(Ars.  amatoria,  I,  371.) 

Qui,  nisi  desierit,  misere  periturus  amore  est 

Desinat.  (Eemedia  amoris,  21-22.) 

The  idea  of  dying  of  love  is  frequently  reflected  in  the  love  lyrics 
of  the  fifteenth  century.  Ovid  also  taught  that  to  be  cured,  the 
patient  must  be  free  from,  that  is,  cured  of,  love ;  for,  inasmuch 
as  Love  personified  inflicted  wounds  that  could  be  fatal, — take, 
for  example,  the  heroines  of  his  Heroides, — so,  love  conceived  as 
a  disease  became  incurable  except  through  avoidance  of  its  con- 
tagion.   In  the  Eemedia  amoris  we  find : 

Si  quis  amas,  nee  vis,  facito  contagia  vites;    (613) 

and 

Manat  amor  tectus,  si  non  ab  amante  recedas;    (619) 

Gomez  Perez  Patino  says,  II,  72 : 

' '  Del  todo  non  es  curada 

la  llaga  que  me  fesiste, 

Amor,  quando  me  feriste 

Con  la  tu  cruel  espada. 
and 

Pues  matas  e  non  guaresges, 

Amor,  syn  dubda  meresc.es, 

destruydor  ser  llamado. " 

41  It  was  Love  who  killed  Macias  according  to  this  popular  concep- 
tion; cf.  also  the  Cancionero  general  of  Hernando  del  Castillo,  I,  470, 
479;  and  note  66,  below,  containing  a  stanza  by  Gomez  Manrique. 


60  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

According  to  the  effect  of  love  on  Ovid's  heroes  or  heroines  they 
show  all  the  symptoms  of  a  disease:  they  'grow  pale  and  thin,' 
and  'pine  away.  (languidus  is  used).'  the  'flame'  or  'fire  of  love 
burning  as  does  a  fever.'  Take,  for  example.  Ars  amatoria,  I, 
729  ff .,  already  quoted  above,  and  such  a  phrase  as : 

Utile  propositum,  saevas  extinguere  flammas. 

(Bemedia  amoris,  53.) 

The  verbs  'to  be  on  fire,'  ardere,  uri,  and  the  like,  are  common. 
In  the  Cancionero  de  Baena  we  find  II,  29,  (against  love)  : 
"Ca  non  fallara  en  ty  otro  provecho, 

qualquier  que  te  sygue,  nin  otro  plaser, 

synon  andar  sienpre  cuytado,  maltrecho, 

perdiendo  ssu  ffama,  su  sseso  e  aver; 

e  des  que  lo  tienes  en  el  tu  poder, 

assy  se  enflaqueQe,  assy  se  en^iende; 

que  aunque  se  pierde,  el  loco  non  entiende, 

synon  que  por  ty  ha  mas  de  valer." 

Faint  as  the  traces  of  influence  of  the  Ars  amatoria  and 
Remedia  amoris  may  seem  at  times,  acquaintance  with  the  pres- 
tige of  Ovid  on  the  part  of  some  of  the  poets  in  the  Cancionero 
de  Baena  is  assured  by  such  passages  as  the  following  by  Fran- 
cisco Imperial.  He  is  speaking  of  the  education  of  young  Prince 
Juan  who  is  to  become  more  conversant  in  matters  of  courtship 
than  Ovid  himself,  the  acknowledged  master  of  the  theories  and 
the  practice  of  love. 

' '  Qual  f  ue  Narciso  el  muy  amoroso 

en  la  fuente  clara  e  a  su  nasc,ion, 

sea  este  infante  mucho  grac,ioso 

en  conversation,  en  fablar  rrason, 

manso  e  cortes,   de  gentil  coraqon, 

amador  a  todos,  de  todos  amado. 

deleytoso  en  fablar,  de  buen  gasajado, 

e  mas  sabidor  de  amor  que  Xason. "    (I,  204.) 

In  a  poem  written  "por  amor  e  loores  de  una  fermosa  muger" 
Imperial  says: 

"Callen  poetas  e  callen  actores, 

Omero,  Ora^io,  Vergilio  e  Dante. 

e  con  ellos  calle  Ovidio  d'Amante, 

e  quantos  escripvieron  loando  senores; 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  61 

que  tal  es  aqueste  entre  las  mejores, 
commo  el  lu(jero  entre  las  estrellas, 
llama  muy  clara  a  par  de  centellas, 
e  commo  la  rrosa  entre  las  flores."    (220.) 

And  the  following  will  speak  for  itself : 
"Muchos  poetas  ley, 
Homero,  Vergilio,  Dante, 
Boe§io,  Lucam,  desy 
en  Ovidio  de  Amante; 
mas  yo  ssea  mal  andante, 
sy  en  toda  su  escriptura 
ley  tan  gentil  fygura 
commo  es  la  del  infante."     (239.) 

Again  the  prestige  of  Ovid  is  apparent  in  a  stanza  by  Diego 
Martinez  de  Medina,  where  he  is  mentioned  among  "otros 
poetas,  grandes  sabidores  (in  the  affairs  of  love  and  lovers), 
leales,  lindos  amadores"  who  would  object  to  having  their  own 
loves  treated  with  scorn.     1,  223. 42 

Ovid  had  also  taught  that  to  win  the  favor  of  the  loved  one  it 
is  important  to  be  eloquent,  to  play  instruments  and  games,  dance 
and  the  like.  Ars  amatoria,  1,  462,  eloquence  is  advocated;  III, 
315,  ff.,  song,  instruments,  poetry  are  helpful,  and  349-50  danc- 
ing is  suggested  to  all  fair  ones.  These  doctrines  were  known  in 
I  the  chansons  of  the  Middle  Ages,  and  so  we  may  see  a  trace  of 
them  attributable  (directly  or  indirectly)  to  Ovid  in  Imperial's 
continuation  on  the  education  of  Prince  Juan : 

' '  E   mas   que   Tristan   sea   sabidor 
de  farpa,  e  cante  mas  amoroso 
que   la   serena,   e   ssea   jugador 
de  todos  juegos,  quando  fuer  ocioso;  "  etc.    (I,  205.) 

Every  classic  inheritance  in  the  realm  of  any  art  was  natur- 
ally modified  in  the  course  of  the  many  centuries  through  which 


42  Baena,  in  a  response  to  a  pregunta  by  Villasandino,  I,  81,  mentions 
one  Panfyio  in  connection  with  el  muy  grant  Rremon,  Rrycardo,  Escoto 
e  Agrymon,  and  probably  refers  to  the  treatise  de  vetula  (cf.  also  notes, 
II,  p.  297  of  his  Cancionero)  ;  but  this  has  nothing  whatever  to  do  with 
the  Latin  play  Pamphilus  de  amove  treated  at  length  in  connection  with 
Juan  Ruiz's  Lioro  de  ouen  amor.  Both  Latin  works  were  attributed  at 
various  times  to  Ovid;  the  de  vetula  deals  with  erudite  or  recondite 
matter  in  which  Ovid  was  supposed  by  the  Middle  Ages  to  have  been 
well  versed.     Cf.  note  35,  above. 


62  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

it  passed,  and  Ovid  was  no  exception  to  the  rule.  Thus,  for 
example,  the  note  of  crude  sensuality,  the  unvarnished  precepts 
of  self-indulgence  which  characterize  the  Ars  amatoria  under- 
went a  marked  change.  Under  the  influence  of  a  society  moulded 
by  the  teachings  of  the  church,  and  moved  by  the  sentiments  of 
chivalry  which  characterize  the  feudal  age,  the  language  of  its 
poets  presents  a  fusion  of  elements  that  do  not  seem  to  harmonize. 
The  pagan  spirit  of  Ovid,  though  it  had  become  ineradicable  in 
most  expressions  of  passion,  was  therefore  bound  to  readjust  itself 
to  mediaeval  society;  it  absorbed  new  color  and  tone  from  cults 
of  the  church,  such  as  the  worship  of  the  Virgin,  and  adapted 
itself  to  the  mediaeval  manner  of  courtship.  But  the  main 
features  of  Ovid  are  none  the  less  apparent.  A  poet  might  speak 
of  his  love  as  'an  image  which  he  adored,'  and  he  might  at  the 
same  time  speak  of  his  'illness  which  no  medicine  could  cure.' 

With  the  Cancionero  de  Stuniga*3  more  evidence  of  the  modi- 
fied influence  of  Ovid  can  be  brought  forward,  and,  as  is  natural, 
the  traces  of  the  Latin  poet  are  much  the  same  as  those  in  the 
song-book  of  Baena.  It  is  evident  that  the  Metamorphoses  is 
again  the  source  of  many  classical  myths,  modified  presumably 
by  acquaintance  with  the  Heroides  and  its  pathetic  tales  of  tragic 
love.  Love,  therefore,  is  again  presented  as  cruel  or  fatal,44  (first 
poem  of  the  collection),  while  well-known  Ovidian  expressions 
of  passion  find  a  parallel  in  such  phrases  as : 
"  morir  en  este  fuego"  (p.  13)4» 
"gloria  sentir  en  el  fuego."    (p.  40). 

"Si  las  mis   llagas  mortales 
Podiessen  haber  salud 
Xou  fueran  nada  mis  males 
Xin  cuytas  tan  desiguales 
Penaran*  mi  iuventud  ;  "    (p.  35). 


43  Coleccion  de  hbros  espanoles  raros  6  curiosos,  tomo  cuarto,  Cancionero 
de  Stuniga   (Madrid,  1872). 

44  Love  is  also  personified,  as  in  the  Cancionero  de  Baena;  for  example, 


p.  261: 
and  : 


Haya   de  todos   de   grado 
Dios  de  amor  muchos  loores. 


a   Cupido 
El  mundo  es  sometido.    (p.  394.) 
'5  By  Juan  de  Mena,  who  is  treated  below. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  63 

Love,  a  disease,  requires  a  remedy,  and  we  have  such  phrases  as 
remediar  amoves,  p.  12, 

' '  Aquella  que  nunca  suele 
A  mis  males  remediar."    (p.  361.) 

Ovid's  heroes  and  heroines  have  much  in  common  when  they  are 
in  love ;  some  of  the  symptoms  which  they  display  in  the  presence 
of  the  beloved  one  have  been  mentioned,  and  we  may  recall  that 
lovers  change  color  or  tremble,  they  lose  their  appetite  and  their 
sleep,  and  give  unrestrained  expression  to  their  passion  in  weep- 
ing and  sighing  and  even  in  shrieking.  These  features  had 
already  been  absorbed  by  the  erotic  poetry  of  the  middle  ages 
and  passed  into  the  later  art  lyric.  Compare  the  following : 
' '  Trabaios  que  me  matays, 

Cuydado  et  graves  tormentos 

Con  pesares, 

Congoxas,  non  me  dexays 

Et  desplaseres  destientos 

A  millares; 

Fatigas,  llantos,  sospiros, 

Gemidos,  tribulaciones, 

Desventuras, 

Passiones  fasen  sus  tiros 

Con  tantas   malediciones 

Con  tristura."      (p.  196.) 

The  same  trace  appears  in  a  poem  by  Carvajales,  p.  361.  The 
element  of  letter-writing,  so  highly  developed  in  the  fiction  of  the 
Renascence,  will  be  treated  at  length  hereafter  and  its  indebted- 
ness to  Ovid  will  become  clear.  It  is  touched  on  frequently  in 
these  art  lyrics,  and  an  example  is  a  passage,  p.  152,  in  which 
the  absent  one  is  filled  with  doubt  about  his  love,  ("en  terribles 
dubdas  vive"),  and  finds  solace  in  a  written  message  from  the 
beloved  one. 

A  lyric  which  recalls  some  of  the  ideas  in  the  Ars  amatoria 
is  that  on  p.  395  by  Pedro  Torrellas,  de  las  calidades  de  las 
donas.*6 


46  Cf.  also  the  Cancionero  general,  I,  381,  and  Gomez  Manrique's 
Cancionero,  I,  77;  it  is  interesting  to  compare  these  versions  which  differ 
considerably  from  one  another,  though  all  contain  Ovidian  ideas.  Thus, 
the  form  in  the  Cancionero  general,  stanza  12,  p.  383,  "Comete  qualquier 


64  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

It  begins: 

Quien  bien  amando  persigue 
Dona,  a  sy  mesmo  destruye, 
Que  siguen  a  quien  las  fuye, 
E  fuyen  de  quien  las  sigue ; 
Xon  qnieren  por  ser  queridas, 
Xin  galardonan  servicios, 
Mas  todas  desconoeidas, 
Por  sola  tenia  regidas, 
Eeparten  sus  beneficios. 

The  verse  of  a  poem  falsely  attributed  to  Mena : 
"Virgilio,  Horacio  amante,"  (p.  233,) 

recalls  the  en  Ovidio  de  amante,  in  Baena  I,  239,  while  the  mean- 
ingless : 

''Xasometo  Forisante, "  (p.  233.) 

clearly  means:  Ovid  in  his  Metamorphoses.47 

There  are,  naturally,  frequent  allusions  to  characters  found  in 

this  work. 

The  Cancionero  General  de  Hernando  del  Castillo48  deserves 

mention,  although  it  is  not  a  criterion  for  the  art  lyric  of  the 

epoch  of  Juan  II ;  it  gathers  together  a  more  comprehensive  list 

of  poets  than  those  previously  examined,  and  more  generally 

represents  the  spirit  of  the  second  half  of  the  fifteenth  century; 

it  contains  together  with  the  court  lyric,  with  verse  written  in 

imitation  of  the  Italians,  some  poetry  of  a  semi-popular  style.49 

maldad  muger  encendida  en  yra  etc.."  represents  the  idea  that  women 
are  equal  to  any  crime,  and  has  been  spoken  of  in  connection  with  the 
Ars  amatoria.     Cf.  also  pp.  67,  85,  95,  119  and  note  191. 

«  This  poem,  by  the  Marques  de  Santillana,  is  called  Triunphete  de 
amor,  cf.  p.  365  of  the  edition  by  Amador  de  los  Eios. 

48  In  La  Sociedad  de  Bibliofilos  espanoles,  2  volumes  (Madrid,  1882.) 

49  I  have  not  been  able  to  examine  the  Cancionero  of  Juan  Fernandez 
de  Constantina:  Cancionero  llamado  guirnalda  esmaltada  de  galanes  y 
elocuentes  dezires  de  diversos  autores.  4°  S.l.  n.a.  let.  got.  perg.  4  hojas 
de  prels.  y  88  fols.  A  perfect  copy  is  announced  in  a  small  pamphlet: 
Catalogo  de  libros  preciosos  impresos  en  los  siglos  XV  a  XVII  (Madrid. 
1912),  (privately  printed).  This  collection  was  bought  by  an  unmen- 
tioned  purchaser  and  is  by  him  offered  for  sale,  presumably  for  the 
Marques  de  Jerez  de  los  Caballeros,  who  had  them  in  his  library.  An 
admirable  collection  when  completed,  will  be  the  Cancionero  castellano 
del  siglo  XV,  ordenado  por  Foulche-Delbosc,  vol.  I  (Madrid,  1912.) 


1913]  Sclievill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  65 

A  few  of  the  salient  features  of  some  of  the  verse  of  this  Can- 
cionero  and  their  relation  to  the  0 vidian  inheritance  are  worth 
pointing  out.  The  traditional  character  of  the  lover,  marks  of 
his  personal  appearance  and  the  evidences  of  his  mental  con- 
dition have  been  touched  upon  above  and  reappear  in  a  poem 
by  Suero  de  Ribera,  on  el  galan  cual  ha  de  ser,  I,  202 ;  the  follow- 
ing extracts  will  give  an  idea  of  these  coplas : 

"El  galan  flaco,  amarillo 
deue  ser  y  muy  cortes, 
razonar  bien  del  arnes, 
y  no  curar  del  vestillo,  etc. 

capelo,   galochas,   guantes 
el  galan   deue  traer, 
bien   cantar   y   componer 
en  coplas  y  consonantes, ' '  etc. 

On  this  subject  of  the  lover's  accomplishments  the  Ars  amatoria 
has  been  quoted ;  that  men  must  not  be  effeminate  or  too  careful 
about  their  dress  we  learn  from  another  precept : 

Sed  tibi  nee  ferro  placeat  toquere  capillos,  etc.     (1,505.) 
and: 

Forma  viros  neglecta  decet.     (509.) 

Rodrigo  Cota,  in  his  didlogo  entre  el  amor  y  un  viejo  (I,  p.  301), 
has  Amor  say : 

Al  rudo   hago   discreto, 

al  grossero  muy  polido, 

desembuelto  al  encogido, 

y  al  inuirtuoso  neto: 

al  couarde  esfor^ado, 

escasso   al  liberal, 

bien  regido  al  destemplado, 

muy  cortes  y  mesurado 

al  que  no  suele  ser  tal. 

This  reminds  very  much  of  a  passage  in  Juan  Ruiz  (cf.  p.  38 
above)   already  compared  with  Ovid. 

An  interesting  mixture  of  Christian  and  Pagan  principles 
may  be  found  in  los  dies  mandamientos  de  amor.     Cane,  gen., 


66  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

I,  371.  Ovid  has  counselled  gentleness  and  courtesy  in  the  lover's 
bearing  as  well  as  an  inclination  to  mirth  coupled  with  culture 
and  eloquence : 

Duleibus  est  verbis  mollis  alendus  amor.    (Ars.  amat.  II,  152.) 
Audiat  optatos  semper  arnica  sonos.     (156.) 

Blanditias  molles  auremque  iuvantia  verba 

Affer,  ut  adventu  laeta  sit  ilia  tuo.     (159-60.) 

....  cum  culta  pax  sit  arnica, 

Et  iocus,  et  causas  quicquid  amoris  habet.     (175-6.) 

Nee  levis  ingenuas  pectus  coluisse  per  artes 
Cura  sit,  et  linguas  edidicisse  cluas.     (121-2.; 

Wealth,  we  also  learned,  II,  275  ff.,  favors  the  lover,  a  precept 
much  dwelt  upon  by  the  Archpriest  of  Hita.  Solitude  is  best 
for  the  lover  when  seeking  a  remedium  amoris.  Rem.  amoris,  213 
ff.  On  the  other  hand,  the  spirit  of  chivalry  prompted  constancy 
and  (in  ideal  cases)  chastity  and  valor,  some  of  which  are  quite 
the  opposite  of  Ovid's  teachings.  The  dies  mandamientos  are:  1, 
return  love  for  love;  2,  "seras  constante";  3,  "seras  casto," 
that  is:  "no  te  mueua  tal  cobdicia  de  trocar  la  que  tienes  de 
guardar  por  otra  sehora  nueua,"  which  does  not  differ  greatly 
from  the  advice  of  Ovid,  that  your  efforts  be  so  directed  "ut 
longo  tempore  duret  amor."  (Ars  amat.,  I,  38)  ;  4: 
' '  muestrate  ser  mesurado 

a    todos    generalmente 

con  alegre  continente 

si  quieres  ser  bien  tractado. " 

5,  "cura  por  ser  esforcado";  6,  "sienpre  seras  verdadero"  (Ovid 
has  said,  'do  not  let  the  object  of  your  love  suspect  that  you 
are  not  verdadero')  ;  7: 

"trabaja  por  te  traer 
ricamente  con  destreza, 
qu'   el  amor  con  la  pobreza 
mal  se  puede  mantener. " 

8,  "fuyras  la  soledad";  9,  "estudioso  tu  seras  en  obras  de  gen- 
tileza";  10,  "seras  franco  del  querer, "  etc. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  67 

The  poem  de  maldczir  de  mugeres,  I,  381,  mentioned  above 
under  a  milder  title,  de  las  calidades  de  las  donas,  shows  by  the 
construction  put  upon  it  here  that  it  belongs  to  the  specific  class 
of  polemic  literature  directed  against  womankind,  many  of  the 
expressions  of  which  are,  as  will  be  seen  in  a  later  chapter,  filled 
with  Ovidian  ideas. 

The  general  erotic  vocabulary  of  Ovid  is  quite  commonly 
found  in  this  cancionero  also;  it  embraces  fuego,  flama,  llagas, 
los  tormentos  mis  entranas  hacen  brasa,  I,  423,  muerte,  mal  (due 
to  love)  for  which  there  is  no  remedio:  remedio  a  mis  cuy- 
dados,  421,  and,  "Pues  tu  cata  remedio  de  mis  passiones,  como 
me  puedas  sanar  bien  o  mata."  I,  455.  We  may  note  also  the 
title  of  a  poem,  II,  27:  coplas  de  un  gentil  ombre,  las  quotes 
se  intitulan  Eemedios  de  amores,  porque  en  ellas  esfuerga  a  los 
ombres  que  huyan  desta  passion.  Here,  too,  may  be  found  the 
cartas  or  love  letters  in  verse,  which  the  poets  wrote  in  praise 
of  the  loved  one,  conveying  at  the  same  time  the  amatory 
sentiments  of  the  poet.  This  is  in  accordance  with  the  Ovidian 
precept : 

Ergo  eat  et  blandis  peraretur  litera  verbis, 
Exploretque  aminos  primaque  tentet  iter. 

Ars  amat.    I,  455-6. 

Throughout  this  cancionero  much  is  said  of  the  'fatal'  effects  of 
passion,  and  so  frequent  are  the  complaints  of  dying  lovers 
that  one  is  in  hearty  sympathy  with  a  lady  who  ridiculed  los 
que  dizen  que  se  mueren  de  amores  y  que  estan  muertos;  no 
creyendo  que  tenga  amor  tanto  poder  de  matar  a  ninguno,  II,  175. 
Diego  de  Burgos,  secretary  of  the  Marques  de  Santillana,  in  a 
poem,  Triunfo  del  Marques,  I,  209,  has  a  reference  to  Ouidio 
Nason,  "qu'el  arte  y  remedio  de  amor  escriuio, "  p.  234;  indeed, 
there  can  be  no  doubt  that  these  works  were  well  known  to  most 
poets  of  the  last-named  collection.50    Thus,  in  so  far  as  the  poems 

so  The  coplas  que  hizo  Puerto  Carrero,  II,  1  ff.,  remind  by  their  general 
character  (un  poeta,  su  dama  con  una  companera  suya  y  tanbien  tercera) 
and  by  some  of  the  dialogue  (cf.  p.  6,  col.  1)  of  the  erotic  literature  to 
which  belong  the  Pamphilus  de  amore  and  its  most  famous  descendants, 
the  Libro  de  buen  amor  and  the  Celestina. 


68  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

of  the  Cancionero  general  reflect  the  general  spirit  of  the  poetic 
creations  of  an  epoch,  the  Ovidian  features  which  have  been 
pointed  out  at  random  here  and  there  fairly  present  the  indebt- 
edness, direct  or  indirect,  of  that  epoch  to  the  inheritance  which 
may  be  traced  back  to  the  Latin  poet.  The  net  results  of  this 
indebtedness  to  Ovid  are  substantiated  by  a  study  of  certain 
individual  poets. 

The  most  interesting  figure  of  the  fifteenth  century  because 
of  his  genuine  love  for  the  chief  classical  poets  is  the  Marques 
de  Santillana.51  Elsewhere  the  extent  to  which  he  was  influenced 
by  the  Aeneid  has  been  touched  upon  ;52  acquaintance  with  Ovid 
will  therefore  seem  logical  at  the  outset,  for  Santillana  ranks 
these  two  poets  together  with  other  prominent  ancients  when 
speaking  of  those  who  may  be  considered  sources  of  his  Prouerbios  : 
"podria  ser  que  algunos  ....  dixiessen  yo  auer  tornado  todo, 
o  la  mayor  parte  destos  Prouerbios  de  las  dotrinas  e  amones- 
tamientos  de  otros,  asy  como  de  Platon,  de  Aristotiles,  de  Socrates, 
de  Virgilio,  de  Ouidio,  de  Terencio  o  de  otros  philosophos  e 
poetas,"  (p.  26.) 

If  we  are  to  infer  from  the  asseveration  of  the  Marques  him- 
self, that  he  could  not  read  Latin,  the  question  arises  which  of 
Ovid's  works  did  he  know  through  the  medium  of  translations? 
Surely  the  Metamorphoses  first  and  foremost.  It  seems  likely, 
moreover,  that  Santillana  had  at  his  disposal  more  than  one  ver- 
sion of  Ovid's  chief  work.  One  may  have  been  a  moralized 
translation,  so  characteristic  of  the  Middle  Ages,  and  represented 
according  to  Schiff53  by  los  Morales  de  Ouidio,  by  Pierre  Ber- 
giure;  done  into  Castilian  by  an  unknown  writer,  and  related  to 
the  Ovide  moralise,  which  was  attributed  to  Chretien  Legouais, 
spoken  of  in  a  previous  chapter.    Was  this  the  same  version  to 

si  Obras  de  Don  Iiiigo  Lopez  de  Mendoza,  Marques  de  Santillana,  etc., 
por  Don  Jose  Amador  de  los  Rios  (Madrid,  1852). 

52  Studies  in  Cervantes,  the  influence  of  Virgil,  in  Transactions  of  the 
Connecticut  Academy  of  Arts  and  Sciences  (New  Haven,  Conn.,  1908),  p. 
481,  by  R.  Schevill. 

53  La  Bibliotheque  du  Marquis  de  Santillane,  par  Mario  Schiff,  Biblio- 
theque de  1  'Ecole  des  Hautes  Etudes,  cent  cinquante-troisieme  fascicule 
(Paris,   1905),  pp.   xci  and  84  ff. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  69 

which  the  Marques  refers  in  a  letter  to  his  son  at  that  time,  about 
1445,  a  student  at  the  University  of  Salamanca?  He  urges  the 
young  man  to  cultivate  the  classics,  and  to  translate  them  into 
Castilian,  he  himself  having  instigated  at  a  previous  date  various 
translations,  among  them  las  Transformations  de  Ouidio.  From 
later  evidence  we  learn  that  the  son  acted  upon  his  father's  sug- 
gestion "y  tradujo  con  harto  primor  y  elegancia  ....  algunas 
obras  de  Ouidio. ' ,5i  What  these  works  were  is  unfortunately  not 
stated  in  the  same  evidence.  Another  version  of  the  Metamor- 
phoses in  the  library  of  Santillana  may  thus  have  been  one  pre- 
pared by  his  own  son.  Finally  he  may  have  gleaned  much  of  his 
information  about  the  Metamorphoses  from  the  extensive  com- 
mentaries added  by  Alonso  de  Madrigal  (el  Tostado)  to  his  Cas- 
tilian version  of  Eusebius,  on  the  History  of  the  World.55 
"Whether  any  Italian  translations  of  works  by  Ovid  were  known 
to  Santillana,  as  was  the  case  with  some  tragedies  by  Seneca, 
is  not  to  my  knowledge  asserted  anywhere.  Be  all  this  as  it  may, 
and  admitting  the  unsatisfactory  character  of  these  or  of  any 
translations  with  a  moral  interpretation,  the  Marques  de  San- 
tillana shows  extensive  acquaintance  with  the  Metamorphoses, 
though  at  times  it  was  inaccurate.  Thus,  if  one  may  be  for- 
given for  pointing  out  such  trifles,  in  his  glosas  a  los  pronerbios, 
op.  cit.  p.  83,  he  says  that  "Mida,  segund  Ouidio  recuenta  en  el 
su  libro  de  Metamorphoseos,  rev  fue  de  los  frigios :  el  qual 
manifica  e  opulentamente  hospedo  e  resceuio  a  los  dioses  Jupiter 
e  Mercurio  en  la  su  casa,  un  dia  que  por  alii  se  acaescieron.  Los 
quales  dioses  por  le  rengraciar  su  entencion  e  hospedage  e  buena 
voluntat,  le  dixieron  que  les  demandasse  qualquier  don  que  mas 
placiente  le  fuesse :  e  como  aquel  fuesse  ome  de  extrema  cobdicia 
dominado  e  mucho  auariento,  les  demando  que  todas  las  cosas  que 
el  tocasse  o  le  tocassen  fuessen  tornadas  en  oro.  Lo  qual  le  fue 
asy  otorgado,  etc."  This  confuses  the  Midas  legend  with  the 
story  of  Philemon  and  Baukis  who  received  Jupiter  and  Mercury 


si  Cf.  note  in  Obras,  op.  cit.  (edit.  Amador  de  los  Rios),  p.  lxxxiv. 

55  Cf.  Schiff,  op.  cit.,  p.  48 ;  also  Nicolas  Antonio,  Bibliotheca  vetus, 
II,  X,  vii,  p.  255;  and  bibliographical  appendix,  below,  under  Metamor- 
phoses in  Spanish  versions. 


70  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

as  guests,  while  it  was  Bacchus  who  was  entertained  by  King 
Midas.  Philemon  and  Baukis  are  asked  what  they  desire  in 
bk.  viii,  706-7  of  the  Met.;  Midas,  in  xi,  100  ff.,  receives  the  gift 
of  the  golden  touch.  Again,  in  the  Comedieta  de  Ponga  occur  the 
following  verses : 

".  .  .  .  vi  quatro  donnas,  .... 
Vestidas  de  negro,  e  a  las  tres  coronas, 
Llamando  la  muerte  con  tantas  querellas, 
Que  dubdo  si  fueron  tan  grandes  aquellas, 
Que  Ouidio  toco  de  las  tres  Gorgonas. "    (p.  97.) 

This  is  certainly  not  clear.  Ovid.  Met.  iv.  772  ff..  in  recounting 
the  legend  of  Perseus  and  Medusa  speaks  of  two  sisters  (the 
Graeae)  from  whom  Perseus  took  the  eye  which  they  possessed  in 
common,  and  of  the  abode  of  the  Gorgons  which  the  two  sisters 
guarded ;  of  the  Gorgons  he  mentions  only  Medusa,  nor  does  he 
say  anywhere,  as  far  as  I  know,  that  there  were  three  Gorgons.56 
This  may  have  been  stated  in  some  commentary  or  in  some  other 
classic  in  Santillana's  possession.  If  querellas  means  the  same  as 
el  clamoso  duelo  of  the  same  stanza,  the  reference  may  be  to  the 
two  Graeae  who  wailed  over  the  loss  of  their  common  eye.  Of 
the  three  Gorgons  only  Medusa  has  any  mythological  fame.  Per- 
haps Santillana  used  the  word  Gorgonas  only  because  it  rhymes 
with  coronas.  At  all  events,  if  some  of  the  stanzas  of  the  Come- 
dieta de  Ponca  are  a  criterion,  the  extensive  display  of  mere 
names  taken  from  classical  myths  seems  much  controlled  by  the 
demands  of  the  rhyme.  Take  for  example,  such  stanzas  as  46. 
48.  95,  and  96;  there  Narciso  is  made  to  rhyme  with  Xiso,  Perseo 
with  Antheo  and  Androgeo,  Thydeo  with  Partinopeo,  and  the  like. 
Nevertheless,  such  passages  show  that  the  author  had  steeped  him- 
self in  classical  reading,  and  that  he  took  pleasure  in  displaying 
the  fact. 


56  Alonso  de  Madrigal,  in  his  Lomentario  sobre  Eusebw,  Pt.  V,  cap. 
240,  discusses  Met.  iv  to  show  that  there  were  only  two  Gorgons,  and 
presumably  means  the  two  Graeae;  the  Marques  de  &antillana  did  not, 
therefore,  get  his  idea  from  El  Tostado;  cf.  also  Pauly-Wissowa,  Real- 
Encyclopadit  dtr  classischen  Alterthumswissensehaft,  7:2  (Stuttgart,  1912"). 
col.  1633. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  71 

The  verses : 

"nin  Damne  Penea, 
De  quien  Ouidio  grand  loor  explana, "  (p.  279.) 

and  again  p.  371,  appear  to  mean  Daphne  Peneia  of  Metamor- 
phoses,57 I,  452. 

Perhaps  the  Heroides  were  also  among  the  works  of  Ovid 
translated  for  the  Marques  by  his  son.  Characters  of  the  work 
are  occasionally  mentioned  by  him,  and  that  he  knew  it  is  evi- 
denced by  his  reference  to  el  Libro  de  las  Epistolas,  at  the  open- 
ing of  the  seventh  sonnet,  p.  275.  If  the  Marques  had  become 
acquainted  with  any  of  the  erotic  works  of  Ovid  through  a  trans- 
lation not  known  today,  or  through  the  commentary  supplied  to 
other  classical  works,  such  as  the  History  of  Eusebius,  translated 
by  Alonso  de  Madrigal,  the  evidence  in  his  works  does  not  point 
to  any  great  interest  in  them.  Beyond  the  absorption  of  certain 
expressions  of  the  language  of  courtship,  belonging  to  the  Ovid- 
ian  inheritance,  the  indebtedness  of  the  Marques  de  Santillana 
to  Ovid  "the  lover"  does  not  go.  The  use  of  such  words  as 
atormentar,  langor,  flama,  furor,  inflamar,  remedio  es  olvidar, 
alivio  de  la  tal  ferida,  (sonnet  XVI),  are  all  in  keeping  with  the 
traditional  vocabulary;  and  in  sonnet  XXVII  we  find:  "Nin 
Esculapio  podria  curar  los  mis  langores, "  which  goes  back  to 
Ovid's  Remedia  amoris,  the  cure  of  love-sickness. 

The  statement  of  the  Marques  that  a  certain  grand  estoriador 
had  said  of  Ovid  "que  todos  sus  motes  e  palabras  eran  metro," 
p.  15,  is  sufficiently  indefinite  to  allow  us  to  surmise  that  he 
meant  nothing  more  than  the  general  statement  found  in  the 
mediaeval  vitae  Ovidii,  an  example  of  which  will  be  given  below 
from  the  Commentary  on  Juan  de  Mena's  Laberinto  by  Fernan 
Nunez  (f.  xv  verso  col.  2).  This  does  little  more  than  repeat 
the  assertion  of  the  poet  himself  .  .  .  .  "  quid-quid  tentabam 
dicere  [that  is,  in  prose,]  versus  erat.  "58     Tristia,  IV,  10,  26. 


57  In  the  Cancionero  de  Stuniga  occurred  the  verse:  "Nasometo 
Forisante, ' '  a  variant  of  which  is  given  in  Obras  op.  cit.,  n.p.  369,  as  Naso, 
metaforziante. 

ss  Cf.  Teuffel,  op.  cit.,  II,  p.  95. 


72  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Finally  we  may  note  the  stanza  in  the  Defunssion   de   Don 

Enrique  de  Villena: 

"Perdimos  a  Homero,  que  mucho  honorava 
Este  sacro  monte,  do  nos  habitamos; 
Perdimos  a  Ouidio,  al  qual  coronamos 
Del  arbol  laureo,  que  mucho  adamava:"   (p.  247.) 

The  next  work  which  claims  our  attention  is  el  Laberinto  de 
Fortuna,  better  known  as  las  CCC  del  famosissimo  poeta,  Juan 
de  Mena.59  The  influence  of  the  writers  of  antiquity  upon  this 
important  literary  figure  of  the  fifteenth  century  is  apparent 
throughout  his  works;  it  need  not,  therefore,  be  surprising  that 
Ovid  should  have  been  one  of  them.  The  character  of  the  classical 
reminiscences  to  be  found  in  Juan  de  Mena's  poetry  can  best  be 
seen  from  the  examples  which  are  given  below. 

The  references  to  stories  or  ideas  to  be  found  in  Ovid  are 
chiefly  of  that  purely  academic,  erudite  nature  which  reveals 
little  that  is  inspired,  and  which  logically  prompted  a  commen- 
tary (glosa)  by  one  Fernan  Nunez,  Comendador  de  la  Orden  de 
Santiago,  whose  pedantry  is  only  exceeded  by  his  disproportion- 
ate longwindedness.  The  manner  and  the  terminology  of  the 
ancients  are  everywhere  apparent.  Take  for  example  the  fre- 
quent use  of  the  word  fortuna: 

' '  Tus  casos  f allaces,  fortuna,  cantamos, 
estados  de  gentes  que  giras  y  tro^as,* 
tus  muchas  mudancas,t  tus  firmezas  pocas, 
y  los  que  en  tu  rueda  quexosos  hallamos :  ' '  etc. 

(copla  ii.) 
*  var.    trocas.       f  var.    tus   grandes    discordias. 


so  I  have  before  me  the  following  volume:  Las  CCC  del  famosissimo 
poeta  Juan  de  mena:  con  otras  xxiiii  eoplas  y  su  glosa  y  la  coronacion 
del  mesmo  poeta:  y  otras  cartas:  y  eoplas  y  canciones.  Agora  nueua- 
mente  anadidas.  This  volume  also  has  the  glosa  sobre  las  trezientas  del 
famoso  poeta  Juan  de  Mena:  compuesta  por  Fernan  nunez  comendador  de 
la  orden  de  Santiago  etc.  The  date  according. to  the  colophon  is  Sevilla, 
por  Jacobo  cronberger  aleman  ano  de  1517  a  24  de  setiembre.  The 
coronacion  bound  with  the  trezientas  is  dated,  Sevilla  1512  a  8  dias  del 
mes  de  Febrero,  by  the  same  printer.  This  copy  is  in  the  Yale  Library. 
Cf.  also  Bevue  Hispanique,  vol.  9,  1902 :  Etude  sur  le  Laberinto  de  Juan  de 
Mena,  pp.  75  ff.  by  R.  Foulche-Delbosc;  this  excellent  study  gives  the  real 
title  as  El  Laberinto  de  Fortuna,  and  consists  chiefly  of  an  examination 
of   the   versification   and  a   bibliography.     I   regret   that   the   edition   by 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  73 

Even  the  learned  Fernan  Nunez  objects,  and  finds  the  excessive 
use  of  this  heathen  personification  reprehensible.  He  says  "E 
primero  es  de  notar  que  entre  otras  reliquias  de  los  errores  gen- 
tilicos  que  han  llegado  fasta  nuestros  tiempos,  es  vna  el  nombre 
de  la  fortuna  que  de  contino  traemos  en  la  boca;  la  qual  los 
antiguos  como  tuuiessen  deprauado  el  conocimiento  de  Dios, 
fingieron  que  era  vna  diosa  que  gouernaua  todo  este  mundo  segun 
le  placia  y  que  a  vnos  prosperaua  con  bienes  y  riquezas:  y  a 
otros  abatia  con  pobreza.  E  fizieronle  templos  y  sacrificios  como 
a  qualquiera  de  los  otros  dioses  segun  que  muchas  vezes  leemos  en 
Plinio,  Ouidio,  etc. ' ' ;  and  then  the  good  Nunez  himself  cannot 
refrain  from  quoting  what  most  of  the  ancients  have  to  say  about 
fortuna,  among  them  a  statement  by  Ovid  to  the  effect  that  '  For- 
tune gives  and  takes  away  whatever  she  pleases. '  He  presumably 
refers  to  the  verse :  Nempe  dat  id  cuicumque  libet  fortuna,  rapit- 
que,  Trist.  Ill,  7,  41. 

Owing  to  the  fact  that  Mena  introduces  various  kinds  of 
mythological  as  well  as  historical  personages  in  his  Laoerinto  de 
Fortuna,  his  indebtedness  to  the  Metamorphoses  is  very  pro- 
nounced. The  following  parallels  will  serve  to  illustrate  the  man- 
ner in  which  use  is  made  of  the  Latin  poem.  Mena  tells  us  that 
all  things  are  transitory  in  this  world ;  among  them : 
"La  gran  Babilonia  que  ouo  cercado 

la  madre   de  Nino,   ae  tierra  cozida, 

si  ya  por  el  suelo  nos  es  destruyda, 

quanto  mas  presto  lo  mal  f abricado ; 

y  si  los  muros  que  Phebo  ha  trauado, 

argolica  fuerca  pudo  subuerter, 

que  fabrica  pueden  mis  manos  fazer, 

que  no  haga  curso  segun  lo  passado?"  (coplav.) 

In  the  story  of  Pyramus  and  Thisbe,  one  of  the  best  known  tales 
of  the  Metamorphoses,  we  are  told  that  the  lovers 
Contiguas  tenuere  domos,  ubi  dicitur  altam 
Coctilibus  muris  cinxisse  Semiramis  urbem. 


Foulche-Delbosc  (Macon,  1904),  is  not  at  my  disposal  at  present.  An 
admirable  recent  study  is  The  Sources  of  Juan  de  Mena  by  C.  E.  Post, 
The  Romanic  Review,  vol.  3,  1912,  nos.  2-3,  pp.  223  ff.;  I  have  com- 
pared my  text  with  that  recently  published  in  the  Cancionero  castellano 
del  siglo  XV   (by  Foulche-Delbosc),  op.  cit. 


74  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

And  their  fatal  rendezvous  was  the  tomb  of  Ninus ;  cf .  IV,  57-83 
and  88.  How  the  walls  of  Troy  were  reared  by  Phoebus  and 
Poseidon  is  told  in  Book  XI.  194  ff . 

References  to  the  history  of  Troy  and  to  Aeneas  may  be  partly 
reminiscent  of  Ovid  as  can  be  inferred  from  the  rather  pedantic 
use  of  such  a  word  as  penatigero: 

' '  me  toma  y  de  dentro  me  pone  tan  libre 
qual  el  penatigero  entrando  en  el  Tibre 
fue  de  los  griegos  de  quien  recelaua. ' '    (copla  xxxi.) 

Of  the  prophesy  made  to  Aeneas  concerning  the  future  of  his 
race  Book  XV.  of  the  Metamorphoses,  435  ff.,  speaks,  adding  the 
verse : 

Haee  Helenum  ceeinisse  penatigero  Aeneae,  etc.  (v.  450.) 

this  being  the  only  place,  so  far  as  I  am  aware,  in  which  the  word 
penatiger  is  used. 

In  his  visions  of  mythological  characters.  Juan  de  Mena  draws 
upon  Greek  and  Latin  sources  in  the  same  stanza,  mentioning 
together  personages  who  have  little  enough  to  do  with  each  other. 
Thus,  after  speaking  of  the  sinful  love  of  Klytaemnestra.  he 
continues : 

"y  vimos  a  Mirrha  con  los  derribados: 
hernia  na  ya  hecha  de  quien  era  madre, 
y  madre  del  hi  jo  de  su  mismo  padre* 
en  contra  de  leyes  humanas  y  grados. ' '  (copla  cii.) 
*var.  del  su  mesmo  padre. 

This  hideous  story  Ovid  tells  at  great  length  in  Book  X.  298  ff.. 
and  mentions  it  again  in  the  Ars  amatoria,  I.  285. 

The  subject  of  these  criminal  characters  is  continued  by  the 
mention  of  Tereus: 

"Alii  era  aquel  que  la  casta  cunada 
hizo  por  fuerca  no  ser  mas  donzella : 
comiendo  su  hijo  en  pago  de  aquella, 
que  por  dos  maneras  del  fue  desflorada. "  (copla  ciii.) 

The  details  of  this  myth  are  given  bv  Ovid  in  Book  VI.  412  ff. 


1^13]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  75 

A  casual  reference  to  the  golden  age : 

"y  desde  las  alpesf  vi  ser  leuantada 
hasta  las  lindes  del  gran  oceano 
ytalia  que  ante*  del  pueblo  romano 
saturuia  fue  dicha  en  la  era  dorada."  (copla  xlvi.) 
f  var.  los  alpes.  *  la  qual. 

leads  Fernan  Nufiez  to  explain  the  verse  at  length  by  means  t  of 
a  comparison  with  the  passage  in  Met.  I,  89  ff.,  from  which  he 
takes  the  description  of  the  golden  age.  The  influence  of  this 
picture  as  given  by  Ovid  and  its  frequent  reappearance  in  litera- 
ture will  be  touched  upon  again. 

Names  of  a  mythological  origin  awaken  in  Mena  a  train  of 
academic  associations,  and  so  we  are  reminded  of  the  legend  of 
Daedalus  and  his  son  Icarus  at  the  sight  of  the  islands  near  which 
the  latter  fell  into  the  sea: 

"y  vimos  las  yslas  eolias  estar, 
icaria,  a   la   qual  el  naufrago   dio 
de  icaro  nombre,  que  nunea  perdio, 
el  mal  gouernado  del*  sabio  bolar. "    (copla  Hi.) 
*  var.  de. 

This  story  is  told  not  only  in  the  Met.  VIII,  183  ff.,  but  in  the  Ars 
amat.  II,  21  ff.,  also.  While  in  these  allusions  and  numerous 
others  of  the  same  deliberate  character  [Europa:  "vimos  aquella 
que  europa  dixeron."  c.  xlii,  Met.  II,  833  ff.,  and  Fasti  IV;  the 
labyrinth  and  Theseus :  ' '  que  por  estincto  los  muchos  reueses  del 
gran  laberintho  y  al  minotauro  al  fin  acabo, ' '  c.  lxiii,  Met.  VIII, 
155  ff.]  purely  bookish  learning  is  apparent,  in  some  cases  the 
implied  comparison  is  in  the  worst  possible  taste.  Thus  Mena 
tells  us  that  if  Queen  Maria  de  Castilla  could  be  metamorphosed 
into  a  man  as  was  Caenis  into  Caeneus, 

"a  muchos  haria  segun  lo  que  creof 
domar  los  sus  vicios  con  su  justedad. "    (copla  Ixxvi.) 
t  var.  que  yo  creo. 

The  story  of  Caenis,  raped  by  Neptune  and  then  converted  into 
a  man  Caeneus,  is  told  Met.  XII,  169  ff.,  and  seems  dragged  in 
most  inaptly  by  Mena. 


76  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Ovid  skilfully  wove  into  his  mythological  narratives  semi-his- 
toric episodes,  occasional  bits  of  biography  of  personages  accepted 
by  a  kind  of  traditional  belief  as  having  once  been  actual  human 
characters,  short  disquisitions  on  creeds  and  systems  of  phil- 
osophy which  were  among  the  directest  means  of  making  them 
known  to  subsequent  ages  in  a  popular  or  superficial  form.  The 
life  and  philosophy  of  Pythagoras  on  which  he  dwells  at  length 
in  Met.  XV,  60  ff.,  is  one  of  the  best  examples.  The  following 
passage  is  of  interest. 

....  primus  animalia  mensis 

Arguit   imponi.      (72.) 

Prodiga  divitias  alimentaque  mitia  tellus 

Suggerit,  atque  epulas  sine  caede  et  sanguine  praebet. 

Carne  ferae  sedant  ieiunia,  nee  tamen  omnes.     (81-3.) 

It  must  have  been  in  Mena's  mind,  when  he  saw  Pythagoras 
among  other  philosophers: 

"  Y  vi  a  pithagoras   que   deffendia 
las  carnes  al  mundo  comer  por  extreme "    (copla  exviii.) 

In  a  subsequent  copla  (exxvi),  Mena  speaks  of  Don  Enrique  de 
Villena  as  a  philosopher,  and,  according  to  Fernan  Nunez,  imi- 
tates Ovid's  description  of  Pythagoras.  There  is  indeed  some 
similarity  in  that  both  contemplate  the  motion  of  the  stars  (qua 
sidera  lege  mearent),  the  character  of  fire,  lightning,  thunder, 
the  causes  of  natural  phenomena,  (rerum  causas  et  quid  natura) 
and  the  like : 

' '  Aquel  que  tu  vees  estar  contemplando 

en  el  mouimiento  de  tantas  estrellas 

la  fuer§a  la  orden,  la  obra  de  aquellas* 

que  mide  los  cursos  de  como  y  de  quando ; 

y  ouo  notieia  philosophando 

del  mouedor  y  de  los  comouidos 

de  huego,  de  rayos,  de  sonf  de  tronidos, 

y  supo  las  causas  del  mundo  velando. ' ' 

*  var.  la  obra,  la  fuerga,  la  orden  de  aquellas. 
t  var.  de  lunbre  e  rayos  e  son. 

Another  example  of  the  possible  influence  of  Ovid's  Metamor- 
phoses, direct  or  indirect,  will  be  found  in  the  passage  of  the 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  77 

Laberinto  containing  the  prophesy  of  the  fate  of  the  great  Con- 
destable,  D.  Alvaro  de  Luna.  It  is  a  scene  of  witchcraft  and 
incantation,  which  is  only  an  uninspired  copy  of  classical  sources, 
among  which  Ovid  may,  nu  doubt,  be  numbered,  owing  to  wide- 
spread acquaintance  with  the  episode  in  question.  This  is  Medea's 
supernatural  procedure  (VII,  257  ff.)  in  restoring  the  aged  Aeson 
to  youth,  which  may  be  compared  with  coplas  ccxli  and  ccxliii,  in 
which  Ovid's  verses 

His  et  mille  aliis  post  quam  sine  nomine  rebus 
propositum  instruxit  mortali  barbara  munus.    (275-6.) 

are  recalled  by  Mena's 

' '  y  otros  diuersos  millares  de  eosas 
que  el  nombre  no  saben,  tanto  se  eelan. "} 

J  var.  aim  los  que  las  gelan. 

Twenty-four  additional  coplas  attributed  without  any  evidence 
to  Mena  according  to  a  certain  tradition  or  legend  that  they  were 
a  partial  fulfilment  of  a  desire  expressed  by  King  Juan  to  see 
the  Laberinto  extended,  have  no  interest  for  us  beyond  the  fact 
that  they  contain  references  to  classical  subjects.  Herein,  how- 
ever, Ovid  has  only  a  slight  share.  One  example  will  serve  in 
copla  xii,  which  mentions  Diomedes,  the  king  of  Thrace,  who  fed 
his  horses  on  human  flesh,  Met.  IX,  194  ff. 

In  the  Coronation,  printed  at  the  end  of  our  volume  contain- 
ing the  Laberinto,  the  same  traits  of  learned  reminiscences  may 
be  found :  among  them  are  such  histories  as  that  of  Acteon, 
Hector,  Tereus,  Phineus,  Ixion,  the  children  of  Leda,  the  daugh- 
ters of  Danaus  and  many  others.  General  familiarity  with 
Ovid's  versions  of  these  stories  makes  him  the  probable  source 
of  Mena's  extensive  display  of  classical  mythology. 

Most  of  these  references  to  the  ancients,  and  notably  to  Ovid, 
would  no  doubt  have  been  apparent  to  any  one  only  superficially 
acquainted  with  the  Latin  writer;  and  though  the  dry  list  just 
given  does  not  by  any  means  make  entertaining  reading,  it  shows, 


78  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

nevertheless,  that  Mena's  learned  verse  must  have  been  ren- 
dered less  tedious  only  because  of  a  wide-spread  knowledge  of 
the  chief  classical  writers,  and  notably  of  Ovid.  Even  Fernan 
Nunez,  in  his  commentary,  takes  pleasure  in  increasing  the 
reader's  heavy  task  by  explaining  the  allusions  at  great  length, 
and  so  adding  weariness  to  weariness.  But  no  Latin  author  is 
more  fully  represented  in    his  notes  than  Ovid. 

Not  only  the  Metamorphoses,  but  the  erotic  works  were  known 
to  Juan  de  Mena.  The  following  examples  recall  the  Ars  ama- 
toria  and  the  Eemedia  amoris;  copla  civ  tells  the  story  of  Pasi- 
phae  which  is  related  at  length  in  Ars  amat.,  I,  289  ff.  and  is 
touched  on  in  Met.  VIII,  136-7.    In  copla  cxxx  the  verse : 

no  supo  darse  remediof  en  amando 

f  The  variant  reparos  seems  less  acceptable  because  remedio  en  amando 
is  a  stereotyped  phrase. 

is  doubtless  connected  with  the  long  literary  tradition  of  the 
remedies  for  love  which  goes  back  to  Ovid.  AVhat  has  already  been 
said  in  connection  with  words  or  phrases  found  in  the  Cancioneros 
makes  us  infer  that  remedio  en  amando  belongs  to  the  general 
vocabulary  of  fifteenth  century  court  lyrics,  as  well  as  the  follow- 
ing which  are  among  those  used  by  Mena:  males,  dulces  saludes. 
flama;  and  sentir  seguro  remedio  a  mat  tamano  (coplas  f.  ciii, 
verso).  Copla  ex  of  the  Laberinto  recalls  the  wiles  of  Celestina; 
here  Providence  warns  the  poet  not  to  trust  in  witchcraft  nor 
poisons  since  love  cannot  be  induced  by  them : 

' '  ni  causan  amores  ni  guardan  su  tregua 
las  telas  del  hijo  que  pare  la  yegua, 
ni  menos   agujas   hincadas   en   cera, 
ni  hilos  de  arambre  ni  el  agua  primera 
de   mayo   beuida   con   vaso    de   yedra, 
ni  fuerca  de  yeruas,  ni  virtud  de  piedra, 
ni   vanas   palabras   del  encantadera. ' ' 

In  the  Remed.  amoris  Ovid  advised: 

Ergo  age,  quisquis  opem  nostra  tibi  poscis  ab  arte, 
Deme  veneficiis  carminibusque  fidem.    (289-90.) 


1913 J  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  79 

In  the  Ars  amat.  Ovid  had  already  advised  against  such  methods 
of  awakening  love : 

Fallitur,  Haemonias  si  quis  decurrit  ad  artes; 

Datque,  quod  a  teneri  fronte  revellet  equi. 
Non  facient,  ut  vivat  amor,  Medeides  herbae 

Mixtaque  cum  magieis  naenia  Marsa  sonis. 
Phasias   Aesouiden,  Circe  tenuisset  Ulixen, 

Si  modo  servari  carmine  possit  amor. 
Nee  data  profuerint  pallentia  philtra  puellis  etc.60 

(II,  99-105.) 

Here  the  second  verse  of  Ovid  may  throw  some  light  on  the 
second  line  of  Mena.  Ovid  repeats  this  whole  idea  frequently: 
it  may  be  found  in  the  Heroides,  VI,  93 :  "Male  quaeritur  herbis 
moribus  et  forma  conciliandus  amor." 

The  musical  education  of  Achilles,   copla  exx,  is  evidently 
taken  from  Ovid ;  Mena  has : 

' '  mostrose  philirides,  el  buen  tafiedor,* 
maestro  de  achiles  en  cytarizar; 
aquel  que  por  arte  herir  y  domar 
pudo  a  vn  achiles,  tan  gran   domador. " 

*  Var.  mostrosenos  Filiris  el  taiiedor. 

In  the  Ars  amat.,  I,  11  ff .,  may  be  found : 

Phillyrides  puerum  cythara  perfecit  Ackillen, 
Atque  animos  placida  contudit  arte  per  feros. 

Qui  toties  socios,  toties  exterruit  hostes, 
Creditur  annosum  pertimuisse  senem. 

Ovid  has  said  that  nothing  can  restrain  a  shameless  woman,  and 
illustrates  the  extent  to  which  they  will  go  by  numerous  ex- 
amples. In  connection  with  Juan  Ruiz,  st.  468,  this  was  men- 
tioned at  length.     Juan  de  Mena  says: 

"que  desque  se  pierde  la  gran  pudicicia, 
virtud  necessaria  de  ser  en  la  hembra, 
tal   furia  crece,  tal  odio  se   siembra, 
que  ban  los  maridos  en  inimicicia. ' '   copla  exxxi. 


Cf.  also  Menendez  y  Pelayo,  Antologia,  vol.  5,  p.  clxxvi. 


80  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Juan  de  Mena's  close  (if  it  is  his)  contains  a  classical  reminis- 
cence : 

"La  flaca  barquilla  de  mis  pensamientos, 
veyendo  mudanca  de  tiempos  escuros, 
cansada  ya  toma  los  puertos  seguros, 
ca  teme  mudanca  de  los  elementos :  ' '  etc. 

copla  ccxcviii. 
In  Ars  amat.  I,  772,  we  find: 

Hie  teneat  nostras  anchora  iaeta  rates. 

and  in  Rem.  amoves,  811 : 

Hoc  opus  exegi.  Fessae  date  serta  carinae: 
coritigimus  portum,  quo  mihi  cursus  erat. 

and  in  the  Amoves, :  III,  11,  29 : 

lam  mea  votiva  puppis  redimita  corona, 
Laeta  tumescentes  aequoris  audit  aquas. 

Of  characters  known  especially  through  the  Hevoides  mention 
is  made  of  "la  buena  ypermestra,"  (copla  lxiii,  Her.  14.)  and 
"la  triste  canace"  (copla  ciii.  Her.  11). 

Mention  of  Ovid  himself,61  (copla  xli)  gives  Fernan  Nunez 
the  desired  opportunity  to  comment  on  the  Latin  poet's  life  and 
works : 

Caria  y  ciliciaf  vimos  en  pronto 

licia  paraphilia  y  tierra  de  ponto 

do  naso  y  clemente  fueron  relegados. 
t  Var.  Ysauria. 

The  long  addition  by  Fernan  Nunez  is  extremely  important  for 
our  study62  of  the  Renascence  inasmuch  as  just  such  versions 
of  Ovid's  career  are  characteristic  of  the  academic  attitude  to- 
ward the  poet.  The  commentator's  assertions  are,  of  course, 
not  authenticated,   but   taken   out   of  old  traditions.      Such   an 

01  Copla  xxxviii  (numbered  37)  of  the  Coronacion  also  mentions  Ovid: 

vi   al  romano   tribuno 
Dictador    muy    oportuno 
Del  gran  metamorfoseos. 

02  The  Life  of  Ovid  as  set  down  by  Fernan  Nunez  is  reprinted  in  an 
appendix;  as  a  contrast,  cf.  E.  Nageotte,  Ovide,  sa  vie,  ses  oeuvres 
(Macon,  1872). 


1913]  Sjhevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  81 

account  as  that  of  the  reason  for  Ovid's  exile  is  founded  entirely 
on  legend,  and  rehearses  ancient  sensational  gossip.  The  word 
relegado  is  striking,  since  it  copies  the  Tristes,  II,  137,  "relegatus 
non  exsul. "  As  the  manuscript  vitae  Ouidii  of  the  Middle  Ages 
have  no  value,  the  veiled  hints  which  Ovid  gives  about  himself 
are  the  chief  sources  used  to  reconstruct  his  life,  and  they  have 
been  misconstrued  from  the  earliest  time. 

If  we  bear  in  mind  how  extensive  the  roster  of  versifiers 
of  the  fifteenth  century  is,  the  number  of  poets  which  this  chap- 
ter has  found  space  to  consider  is  necessarily  small  by  compari- 
son ;  nevertheless,  only  one  more  name  will  have  to  close  the 
list,  that  of  Gomez  Manrique.  The  collection  of  his  poetry,  but 
recently  made  accessible  in  printed  form,  permits  us  to  rank  him 
with  the  foremost  among  his  contemporaries,  and  a  brief  examina- 
tion of  its  contents  will  fittingly  close  this  chapter.63  The  long 
life  of  Manrique  embraced  most  of  the  century,  and  his  poetry 
presents  some  of  the  finest  and  most  characteristic  features  of 
the  art  lyric  as  it  was  cultivated  during  three  reigns.  These 
are  variety  and  originality  coupled  with  real  forcefulness,  quali- 
ties which  he  but  rarely  spoiled  by  a  dry  academic  note,  since 
he  was  not  burdened  by  excessive  reading  or  intrusive  erudition. 
Classical  learning  is,  therefore,  represented  in  him  to  a  far  less 
degree  than  in  the  Marques  de  Santillana  or  in  Juan  de  Mena. 
Nevertheless,  that  Manrique  knew  some  of  the  ancients  may 
be  inferred  not  only  from  his  text,  but  from  an  exceedingly 
interesting  list  of  books  which  his  library  contained.64  Their 
number  is  not  large ;  among  them  are :  La  primera  decada  de 
Tito  Liuio;  Las  epistolas  de  Seneca  a  Lucilo;  los  prouerbios  de 
Seneca;  presumably  a  version  of  Sallust,  and,  near  the  close,  un 
libro  de  Metamorfoseos.     Whether  this  was  a  Castilian  version 


63  Cancionero  de  Gomez  Manrique,  publicale  con  algunas  notas  D. 
Antonio  Paz  y  Melia,  two  vols.  (Madrid,  1885) ;  cf.  also  Menendez  y 
Pelayo,  Antologia,  vol.  VI,  p.  lv  ff. 

e*  Cf .  Cancionero  op.  cit.,  II,  p.  332  ff.  In  the  list  of  books  we  find 
mentioned  simply  Juan  Bocacio,  and  D.  Marcelino  Menendez  y  Pelayo  says, 
p.  lxxxiv  of  the  Antologia,  op.  cit.:  no  se  expresa  cual  de  sus  obras 
poseia  nuestro  magnate.  From  two  passages,  I,  232,  and  II,  57,  we  may 
infer  that  the  work  was  las  caydas  de  los  principes. 


82  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

or  not,  is  hard  to  affirm,  though  one  may  infer  from  the  char- 
acter of  the  library  that  such  was  the  case.65  Manrique  cer- 
tainly does  not  make  the  impression  of  an  academic  latinist,  and 
when  he  speaks  of  himself  in  one  of  his  stanzas  as  losing  sleep 
over  the  stories  of  the  Metamorphoses,  we  may  presume  that  he 
read  them  in  a  Oastilian  version : 

"De  Pluton,  Febo,  Saturno, 
ley  sus  vidas  arreo 
con  vn  cuydado  diurno 
perdiendo  el  suefio  noturno 
en  el  Metamorfoseo. 
Si    la    su    mejor    doctrina, 
mas    eleuados    saberes 
son   forc,ar   a   las   mugeres, 
dilo  tu,  hija  de  Ceres, 
muy  hermosa  Proserpina. 

"Y  tu,  hija   de  Agenor, 
dexa  ya,   dexa   tu   lloro, 
y   blasona   sin   pauor 
aquel  dios,  tu  fonjador 
buelto  en   forma   de  toro. 
Con  tal  testigo  sin   dubda, 
por  poco   poco   que   se, 
muy   claramente   podre 
conoscer   si   pedire 
a   estos   dioses   ayuda. 

' '  Que    mal    podran    socorrerme 
estos  que  nada  sopieron,"  etc.    (I,  p.  64.) 

Further  reminiscences  of  his  nocturnal  reading  in  the  Metamor- 
phoses are  therefore  quite  natural,  and  reveal  themselves  in  such 
references  as  that  to  the  story  of  Piramo,  I,  p.  106,  tesoros  de 
Mida,  152,  and  Filomena,  II,  36. 

The  vocabulary  of  Manrique 's  love  lyrics  has  a  more  indi- 
vidual note  than  may  be  found  in  the  verse  of  most  of  his  con- 
temporaries, but  it  partakes  of  many  of  the  features  already 
discussed,  which  are  those  derived  chiefly  from  the  Ovidian  inher- 
itance.    The  effects  of  love  are  those  described  hitherto:  the 


«5  Cf.  also  Menendez  y  Pelayo,  Antologia,  VI,  p.  lxxxiv. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  83 

lover's  'health'  is  seriously  affected;  he  resorts  to  a  letter  directed 
to  his  love,  telling  her  that  his  time  is  spent  in  'wailing  and 
weeping,'  that  as  a  true  lover  'he  is  about  to  die,'  and  he  begs 
her  to  read  his  letter:  (carta  de  amores) 
"A  ti,  Senora,  de  quien 

como   soy   leal   amigo 

fuera   mejor   enemigo 

para  mi  salud  e  bien, 

fago  saber  por  la  triste 

e   presente  letra  mia, 

como  despues  que  partiste 

de  donde  verte  solia 

yo  biuo  sin  alegria 

1 '  Tanto   que  jamas   me  vy 
tan   triste   como   me  veo, 
por  causa   del  gran  deseo 
que  tengo  de  ver  a  ty. 
Que  me  das  tantos   enojos 
e  tal  dolor  e  pesar, 
qu'   el   estilo  de  mis  ojos 
es   nunca   jamas   cesar 
de  planir  e  de  llorar,  etc.     (I,  p.  27.) 

".  .  .  .  puedo   dezir 
que   syn   otra   causa   muero 
por  amarte  verdadero. 

"E   por   no   me   detener, 
dando  fin  a  la  presente, 
te  suplico  solamente 
que  pues  al  no   puede  ser, 
esta   letra  triste  veas 
que  con   gran   dolor  eseriuo, 
porque   tu,   senora,   creas 
como  por  tu  causa  biuo 
con  vn  dolor  muy  esquiuo. "    (p.  29.)66 


66  Other  examples  are,  no.  vii,  p.  33: 

Nunca   esta  noche  dormi, 
contenplando 
en  el  dolor  muy  estremo 
que  sufro,  triste  de  mi  etc. 


42: 


O  muy  discreta  donzella, 
por  quien  sufro  pesar  fiero, 
sabed  que  vos  soys  aquella 
por  cuyos  amores  muero!   etc. 


84  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

Again,  the  lover  'burns'  or  is  'consumed  by  fire': 

"El   que  arde   en   biua   llama 
siruiendo   a    quien   le    condena, 
no   puede,   segun   es    fama, 
sentir  la  passion  agena. "     (p.  41.) 

In  a  question  by  Guevara  on  love  and  death  may  be  found  the 

customary  phrases :  and  Manrique  answers : 

' '  Es    amor   vna   presea 
que   tod  os    plazeres    tira 
y   presta   mente   se   gira ; 
testigo    sera    Medea. 

Pues  que  no  puede  guarir 

el    que   tiene   tal   yncendio, 

niu  morir  en  tal  comedio, 

deue   siempre   conbatir 

con  sospiros  e  gemir 

a  su  dania,   si  es   fermosa, 

que  tras  la  tarde  lluuiosa 

yo   vi  sereno  venir. 

y  tras  los  Uantos  reyr. "    (p.  144.) 

In  another  poem,  a  vna  dama  que  le  preguntaua  como  h  nun 
(II,  206)  Manrique  makes  use  of  several  of  the  phrases  char- 
acteristic of  Ovid.    The  final  stanza  gives  an  idea  of  the  whole : 

"Catad  aqui,   gentil   dama, 
la    vida    que    preguntastes 
del  omne  que  mas  vos  ama, 
cuyo   plazer  se   derrama 
despues   que   le   vos 


and  no.  lvi,  p.  177: 

Aunque  de  vos  me  parti 
encubriendo  mi  dolor, 
despues  que  me  despedi 
el  mi  planto  fue  mayor 
qu'el  que  fizo  Geremias, 
llorando  noches  e  dias 
mi  maldito  despedir; 
el  qual  me  faze  beuir 
con  gran  temor  de  morir 
del  mal  que  murio  Macias. 

For  reference  to  this  mal,  cf.  above  n.  41. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  85 

de  llaga    syn    mejoria 

de  que    nimca    sanar   creo 

sy   non   como   guares^ia 

la  ferida    que    fazia 

la  lanc,a  del  rey  Peleo. "    (p.  209.)67 

The  coplas  entitled  contra  las  damas  by  Torrellas,  I,  77, 
already  briefly  mentioned  above,  because  they  contain  traces  of 
the  influence  of  Ovid's  attitude  toward  woman,  appear  to  have 
been  deemed  worthy  of  a  reply  by  Manrique.  He  takes  up  the 
cudgels  vigorously  in  defence  of  womankind,  and  answers  To- 
rrellas stanza  for  stanza,  representing  in  his  response  the  more 
chivalrous  attitude  of  his  time  in  sharp  contrast  with  that 
traditional  defamation  of  woman  in  general,  so  frequently  found 
in  earlier  and  contemporary  literature. 

Finally,  in  one  of  Manrique 's  best  lyrics,  extolling  the  beauty 
of  a  certain  woman,  he  allows  us  to  infer  that  not  even  Ovid,  who 
has  depicted  so  many  heroines,  could  do  her  justice : 

[Ni]  la   (mano)   de  Tulio  pudiera 

con  su   pluma   diligente, 

nin   Ouidio   descriuiera 

el   bien   que   de  vos  se   siente; 

eu   la   beklad   otra   Dido, 

Judic    en    la    fortaleza, 

Penelope   en    la    firmeza, 

por  quien  biuo  dolorido.     (II,  212.) 

It  is  logical,  therefore,  to  believe  that  Manrique  was  also  aware 
of  the  prestige  of  Ovid,  el  amante;  it  may  be  presumed,  at  least, 
that  he  was  acquainted  with  the  Latin  poet's  traditional  advice 
to  lovers,  and  his  authority  in  matters  of  courtship. 

Thus  we  have  seen  that  the  art  lyric  of  the  fifteenth  century 
forms  another  link  in  the  chain  of  Ovidian  tradition  by  its 
indebtedness,  either  directly  to  his  works,  or  to  the  inheritance 
connected  with  his  name  and  brought  into  Spain  by  various 
channels.     In  the  forefront  was  manifest  frequent  mention  of 

G7  For  the   story  of  the  lance   or   spear   which   wounded   Telephus   cf. 
Met.  XII,  112;  XIII,  171-2;  especially  Bemedia  amoris,  47-8: 
Vulnus  in  Herculeo  quae  quondam  fecerat  hoste, 
Vulneris  auxilium  Pelias  hasta   tulit. 


86  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

the  mythological  tales  and  characters  made  familiar  to  all  by 
Ovid's  popular  collection  of  legends.  Next  in  importance  was 
the  use  of  a  stereotyped  terminology,  of  an  accepted  vocabulary 
of  emotion  and  passion,  which  had  received  its  first  formal  expres- 
sion in  the  erotic  works  of  Ovid,  though  it  was,  for  the  greater 
part,  no  longer  associated  with  his  name  at  the  dawn  of  the  Renas- 
cence. Lastly,  there  was  clearly  an  imperfect  understanding  of 
Ovid's  position  among  classical  poets,  partly  because  of  the 
unfounded  views  handed  down  from  the  Middle  Ages,  and 
partly  because  of  the  strange  interpretation  given  to  his  works. 
But  occasionally  there  appears  also  an  unmistakable  tribute  to 
the  prestige  of  Ovid,  the  "lover,"  or  the  "doctor"  of  passion 
and  the  teacher  of  the  principles  of  courtship. 

At  this  point,  however,  we  leave  lyric  poetry  for  a  wider  field 
in  which  the  unbroken  influence  of  Ovid  can  be  detected,  in 
which  the  novelistic  and  erotic  features  of  his  works  were  assim- 
ilated, and  his  teaching  applied.  This  is  the  prose  fiction  of  the 
Eenascence,  to  which  we  now  turn. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  87 

II 

The  Beginnings  of  Renascence  Fiction 

l 

THE  INFLUENCE  OF  OVID  AND  THE  OVIDIAN  TALE 

In  order  to  establish  the  continuity  of  the  influence  of  Ovid 
we  must  leave  Spain  for  a •  short  time;  for  our  first  step  will  be 
to  examine  the  origin  and  development  of  a  type  of  fiction  here- 
after to  be  designated  as  the  Oviclian  novel  or  tale.  It  has 
hitherto  been  known  by  the  mild  title  of  'sentimental  novel'  or 
'love  story,'  although  it  represents  a  tale  of  intrigue  in  which 
erotic  features  play  a  prominent  part. 

Fiction  of  every  nation  has  always  had  sensual,  or  amatory 
elements;  in  types  widely  separated  a  similar  attitude  toward 
love  and  womankind  can  easily  be  detected  and  compared.  But 
With  the  fourteenth  century  a  type  of  sentimental  tale  originated 
with  peculiar  erotic  features  which  occur  again  and  again;  a 
tale  which  by  its  construction  seems  to  point  to  a  particular  set 
of  precepts,  and  therefore  to  a  single  pronounced  influence  or 
inspiration.  The  character  of  the  love  story  which  originates 
at  that  epoch  may  be  characterized  as  bourgeois,  its  background 
is  the  city,  the  intrigue  which  it  narrates  is  carried  on  amid 
busy  town  life,  it  deals,  as  a  rule,  with  ordinary  citizens,  hus- 
band, wife,  lover,  man-servant,  maid-servants,  and  the  like. 
Now  this  kind  of  fiction  was  a  logical  outgrowth  of  the  peculiar 
social  life  of  the  Italian  cities  in  which  highly  centralized  activi- 
ties were  dominated  by  the  prose  of  mercantile  interests,  and  yet 
colored  by  an  artistic  and  passionate  interpretation  of  everyday 
life.  It  is  not  only  the  taste  of  a  cultured,  well-to-do  middle  class 
which  is  reflected  in  this  form  of  fiction,  but  the  laxity  of  morals 
characteristic  of  citv  life,  in  which  families  live  closelv  crowded 


88  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

together,  and  in  which,  as  a  consequence,  every  opportunity  is 
offered  for  gossip,  rendezvous  and  intrigues.  It  will  be  apparent 
at  a  glance  how  this  differs  from  any  other  kind  of  fiction  with 
marked  erotic  traits.  In  tales  of  oriental  origin,  the  element  of 
love,  reduced  to  its  lowest  terms,  is  chiefly  one  of  passion  or 
desire  in  which  woman — with  few  exceptions — is  depicted  merely 
as  a  kind  of  legitimate  prey  for  man;  or  if  she  is  depicted  at 
all,  it  is  to  show  her  faithlessness,  her  powers  of  deception,  her 
unrestrained  self-indulgence,  and,  often,  her  tendency  to  wicked- 
ness and  crime.  The  atmosphere  which  develops  such  plots  is 
that  of  the  East,  in  which  the  attitude  of  men  toward  women  is 
so  largely  tinged  with  the  morals  of  the  harem  brought  into  the 
market-place.  Again,  in  the  romances  of  chivalry  those  erotic 
passages  which  have  scandalized  so  many  religious  and  literary 
reformers  have  a  stamp  of  their  own,  namely,  a  kind  of  easy- 
going indecency  of  an  aristocratic  nature.  Here  valiant  knights 
have  relations  with  wandering  damsels  or  duennas,  or  they 
unexpectedly  meet  fair  inmates  in  castles,  where  they  while  away 
their  time  willingly,  or  under  duress  made  bearable.  In  the 
tales  of  the  fableaux  the  erotic  elements  are  generally  far  removed 
from  the  spirit  of  a  genuine  love  story  in  that  they  mostly  turn 
on  a  filthy  joke  based  on  some  hoax,  or  on  trickery,  infidelity  and 
deception,  with  a  single  adventure  in  which  the  heart  plays  no 
part  at  all.  Even  more  dissimilar  are  the  love  affairs  of  fairy 
and  folk  tales.  Closer  to  the  classical  age  in  point  of  time  may 
be  found  another  type  of  fiction  with  erotic  features ;  this  is  repre- 
sented by  the  Greek  and  Byzantine  romances.  If  it  were  pos- 
sible to  eliminate  all  the  machinery  of  travel  and  the  adventures 
of  long  wanderings  which  they  contain,  and  to  consider  only  the 
bourgeois  nature  of  certain  intrigues  characteristic  of  city  life, 
a  slight  similarity  between  those  intrigues  and  specific  traits  of 
the  amatory  novel  of  the  Renascence  would  be  more  apparent. 
This  is  especially  true  of  such  romances  as  Theagenes  and  Charik- 
lea,  Klitophon  and  Leukippe,  and  a  few  others.  This  similarity 
can  be  explained  in  part  because  the  Greek  romances  reflect  to 
a  certain  extent  the  morals  of  the  ancients,  while  the  earliest  form 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  89 

of  the  love  story  of  the  Renascence  sprang  from  classical  pre- 
cepts and  developed  under  the  influence  of  a  tradition,  of  which 
Ovid  had  been  the  fountain-head. 

No  classical  poet  was  better  known  in  the  fourteenth  and 
fifteenth  centuries  than  the  author  of  the  Metamorphoses,  the 
Heroides,  the  Ars  amatoria,  the  Remedia  amoris,  the  Amoves,  the 
Tristia  and  possibly  the  Fasti.  Already  popular  at  the  close  of 
the  Middle  Ages,  Ovid  was  carried  into  the  Renascence  by  the 
humanists,  and  so  became  a  prominent  part  in  the  education  of 
every  one  who  attended  the  schools.  Of  this  fact  ample  evidence 
may  be  gathered  from  innumerable  quotations,  from  imitations 
and  paraphrases,  and  finally  from  an  ever-growing  number  of 
translations  into  Italian  and  Spanish. 

It  is  therefore  no  mere  coincidence,  that  at  the  very  epoch 
in  which  Ovid  reached  the  height  of  his  popularity,  a  kind  of 
novel  should  originate  which  was  inspired  by  the  numerous  fic- 
tion elements  and  precepts  contained  in  his  writings.68  It  will 
simplify  the  study  of  their  influence,  to  divide  them  into  two 
large  groups :  to  the  first  belong  the  works  more  properly  called 
erotic,  the  Ars  amatoria,  the  Remedia  amoris  and  the  Amores,  to 
the  second,  the  Metamorphoses,  the  Heroides  and,  if  merely  the 
tales  therein  be  considered,  the  Fasti.  Owing  to  their  great  im- 
portance, the  Metamorphoses  and  the  peculiar  manner  in  which 
they  were  retold  in  Renascence  versions  will  be  taken  up  in  a 
later  chapter.  It  will  suffice  to  say  here  that  by  the  sixteenth 
century  this  great  mythological  poem  had  come  to  be  considered 
Ovid's  foremost  work,  as  the  Aeneid  was  held  to  be  Virgil's  and 
both  were  taken  with  equal  seriousness ;  on  the  other  hand,  in  the 

68  The  spirit  of  the  ' '  sentimental  tale ' '  may  be  caught  in  this  passage 
and  many  others  of  a  similar  character: 

O   quater  et  quoties  numero  comprendere  non  est 

Felieem,   de   quo   laesa  puella  dolet! 
Quae   simul   invitas   crimen   pervenit   ad   aures, 

Excidit.   et   miserae   voxque   colorque   fugit. 
Ille  ego   sim,   cuius  laniet   furiosa  capillos; 

Hie  ego  sim,  teneras  cui  petat  ungue  genas; 
Quern   videat  lacrimans,   quem   torvis   spectet   ocellis; 

Quo   sine  non  possit  vivere,  posse  velit. 
Si  spatium  quaeras,  breve  sit,  quo  laesa  queratur, 

Ne  lenta  vires  colligat  ira  mora. — {Ars  amat.  II,  447-56). 


90  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

same  spirit  of  comparison,  the  Eclogues  and  the  Ars  amatoria 
were  esteemed  as  less  worthy  minor  works,  no  doubt,  because 
they  are  more  worldly  and  less  heroic  in  tone.  Thus  Torquemada 
hesitates  to  include  in  the  midst  of  serious  matter  a  frivolous 
colloquio  pastoril,  but  excuses  himself  for  finally  having  done  so, 
by  appealing  to  the  example  of  classical  models:  "pareciome  que 
podria  yo  hacer  lo  que  otros  autores  muy  graves  hicieron  sin 
ser  reprehendidos  por  ello,  y  que  tenia  escudo  y  amparo  en  su 
enxemplo  contra  las  lenguas  de  los  que  de  mi  por  esta  causa 
murmurar  quisiessen.  El  primero  es  el  poeta  Virgilio  que  con 
los  libros  de  la  Eneida,  siendo  obra  tan  calificada,  no  le  parecio 
mal  poner  las  Bucolicas,  que  tratan  cosas  de  amores  .  .  .  . ;  el 
poeta  Ovidio  tambien  mezclo  con  sus  obras  el  de  Arte  amandi 
y  el  de  Bemedio  amoris."™  In  spite  of  such  judgment,  how- 
ever, the  course  of  development  taken  by  Renascence  fiction 
makes  it  necessary  to  treat  of  the  ' '  Grammar  of  Love ' '  first. 

What  are  the  precepts  and  examples  which  amatory  fiction 
could  find  in  Ovid?  We  saw  how  the  plot  of  the  Pamphilus  de 
amove  was  evidently  constructed  out  of  fiction  elements  gleaned 
from  Ovid;  of  these  a  few  have  been  touched  upon  previously, 
but  a  more  comprehensive  summary  can  now  be  given. 

First  of  all  we  have  as  a  background  the  kaleidoscopic  life 
of  an  active  city,  the  center  of  the  Roman  empire :  amusements 
and  gatherings  of  all  kinds,  theatres  and  circus,  the  public 
promenades,  the  market  places,  the  forum,  in  short,  numberless 
resorts  where  the  fair  ones  may  be  seen.  Here  you  spy  out  the 
object  of  your  affections,  whereupon  your  next  precept  becomes 
how  to  devise  ways  and  means  of  pleasing  and  winning  her;  it 
then  remains  for  you  to  employ  such  means  as  may  make  your 
love  of  long  duration.  That  is,  according  to  Ovid,  it  was  not 
to  be  an  intrigue  for  the  moment  only,  but  an  extended  love- 
affair,  and  herein  its  analogy  with  an  amatory  novel  lay.  The 
state  of  the  woman,  that  is,  whether  she  be  married  or  not,  is  not 
of  vital  importance.     Ovid  plainly  did  not  intend  his  precepts 


ss  Colloquios  Satiricos,  hechos  por  Antonio  de  Torquemada,  printed  in 
Origenes  op.  cit.,  II,  p.  549. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  91 

only  for  one  who  was  in  search  of  the  dangerous  love  of  a 
married  woman,  but  the  frequency  with  which  he  dwells  upon 
that  contingency,  on  the  methods  of  deceiving  or  blinding  the 
husband  and  the  like,  gives  the  possibility  of  an  intrigue  with  a 
married  woman  undue  prominence.  Thereupon,  whenever  it  is 
possible  to  approach  the  beloved  object,  the  lover  is  to  show 
himself  solicitous  of  her  comfort  in  a  thousand  ways.  Now  pro- 
ceeding on  the  precept  that  every  woman  may  be  won,  the  next 
step  is  to  enlist  in  your  behalf  the  servants,  her  handmaiden  and 
the  porter.  Then  follow  presents,  or  verses,  if  you  are  a  poet, 
together  with  letters  and  promises.  Above  all,  it  is  necessary  to 
persist.  She  may  not  answer  your  letters,  but  she  will  undoubt- 
edly read  them ;  she  may  indeed  proceed  to  write  to  you  entreat- 
ing you  not  to  molest  her,  thereby  merely  urging  you  to  continue 
your  suit.  Several  precepts  are  devoted  to  the  personal  appear- 
ance of  the  lover ;  he  must  be  mindful  of  his  manner  of  dress,  he 
may  look  pale  and  thin  as  a  result  of  sleepless  nights;  he  must 
be  on  good  terms  with  those  about  her,  notably  her  husband.  A 
lover 's  conversation  should  be  naturally  eloquent,  you  must  praise 
your  mistress  whether  she  deserves  it  or  not;  tears  and  protesta- 
tions are  in  order,  and  if  the  occasion  arises,  a  pleasing  violence 
is  to  be  commended.  Numerous  other  precepts  are  scattered 
through  both  the  Ars  amatoria  and  the  Remedia  amoris,  and  some 
are  frequently  repeated.  Among  the  more  important  ones  are  the 
following.  Be  on  your  guard  against  taking  a  friend  into  your 
confidence,  lest  he  replace  you  in  her  affections ;  willingly  under- 
go toil  and  hardship  for  her  sake,  and  be  sure  to  endure  her 
caprices.  A  short  absence  is  conducive  to  love,  a  long  absence 
may  help  you  to  forget  it.  A  husband  must  not  leave  his  wife 
at  home  unguarded :  the  stupidity  of  Menelaus  is  a  case  in  point. 
Jealousy  is  a  great  stimulus  to  love,  and  dread  of  having  a  rival 
may  make  a  woman  yield.  Keep  your  intrigues  secret;  if  you 
cannot  find  easy  access  to  her  abode,  slip  down  through  the  roof, 
or  make  a  secret  passage  of  the  high  window.  Make  good  use  of 
the  night,  for  the  sun  is  a  great  betrayer  of  your  actions.  A 
mature  passion  is  preferable  to  one  youthful  and  untried,  and 


92  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

those  who  have  had  experience  can  always  repair  the  ravages  of 
age  and  use. 

Then  turning  to  the  woman's  side  of  the  question,  Ovid  gives 
her  specific  counsel,  but  not  without  repeating  some  things  which 
he  had  already  implied :  Be  mindful  of  approaching  age,  gather 
rosebuds  while  you  may  and  grant  your  love.  Then,  after 
numerous  precepts  on  woman's  appearance  and  dress,  her  bear- 
ing and  the  like,  he  advises  her  to  have  certain  accomplishments, 
such  as  singing  and  dancing.  Since  men  are  deceivers  ever, 
she  should  be  on  her  guard  against  man  and  his  oaths,  and 
refrain  from  answering  his  letters  at  the  outset.  A  lover  must 
both  fear  and  hope.  Husband  and  guardian  may  be  eluded ;  con- 
fidantes may  carry  notes,  while  epistles  in  ciphers  and  secret 
rendezvous  are  suggested.  Minor  additional  precepts  might  be 
added  were  there  space  here. 

In  the  Remedia  amoris  we  find  these  precepts  reversed,  for 
it  now  becomes  a  question,  as  we  have  seen  in  previous  chapters, 
of  healing  the  disease  caused  by  love.  Ovid's  advice  now  is,  if 
you  would  be  rid  of  love,  nip  the  malady  in  the  bud ;  do  not 
be  idle,  but  attend  to  your  work,  for  all  those  who  are  occupied, 
Love  does  not  molest.  Frequent  the  country,  let  gardening,  hunt- 
ing and  fishing  be  your  chief  employment.  Above  all,  absent 
yourself  from  the  beloved  one  for  a  long  time,  nor  let  your 
thoughts  wander  back  over  the  past.  Kecall  all  the  deficiencies 
of  the  object  of  your  affections,  or  since  there  is  safety  in  num- 
bers, have  more  than  one  love  at  the  same  time.  Avoid  being 
alone,  and  frequent  the  company  of  your  friends.  Do  not  read 
over  the  letters  which  you  once  received,  destroy  the  picture  of 
the  loved  one,  and  do  not  imagine  that  you  have  a  rival,  for, 
far  from  healing  you,  this  thought  will  but  awaken  love  anew. 

Not  only  in  the  Ars  amatoria  and  Remedia  amoris  can  these 
elements  of  fiction  be  found :  the  Amoves,  because  of  their  related 
character,  likewise  repeat  occasional  ideas  already  brought  out 
above,  (as  in  the  eighth  elegy  of  Book  I,  which  is  a  compendium 
of  the  Ars  amatoria)  and  in  several  elegies  of  that  collection  the 
application  of  the  above  principles  is  carried  out  quite  in  the 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  93 

form  of  fiction.  Thus  the  second  elegy  of  Book  II  represents  the 
meeting  of  the  poet  and  a  married  woman  in  the  portico  of  the 
temple  of  Apollo.  The  poet  thereupon  writes  to  her,  but  receives 
the  answer  that  she  cannot  see  him,  as  she  is  closely  watched  by 
the  eunuch  Bagous ;  to  him  Ovid  addresses  his  plea,  saying  that 
it  would  be  better  for  Bagous  to  be  an  accomplice  than  an  obstacle. 
And  in  the  following  elegy  Ovid  appeals  to  him  again  with 
the  argument,  that  though  he  guard  his  mistress  carefully,  she 
may  yet  deceive  him,  for  that  which  is  desired  by  two  people 
is  bound  to  come  to  pass.  Again  in  the  twelfth  elegy  of  Book  II, 
Ovid  tells  us  that  he  has  won  his  love  (one  of  many!),  having 
overcome  all  obstacles,  husband,  guardian  and  the  rest,  a  victory 
deserving  a  special  triumph,  even  as  the  victories  of  war.  In 
the  nineteenth  elegy  of  Book  II,  the  poet  blames  a  husband  for 
lack  of  surveillance  over  his  wife,  warning  him  that  such  care- 
less vigilance  never  stimulates  the  curiosity  and  love  of  others. 
What  one  cannot  obtain  gives  an  edge  to  one's  desires.  If  the 
husband  really  desires  to  make  his  wife  interesting  to  a  lover,  he 
need  but  close  his  house  at  nightfall;  let  him  inquire  who  is 
stealthily  passing  the  threshold,  why  the  dogs  are  barking  in  the 
silent  night,  what  letters  those  may  be  which  the  servant  is  carry- 
ing, and  the  like.  Let  the  husband  begin  to  watch  his  wife,  or 
she  will  cease  to  attract  the  poet. 

A  pendant  to  the  last-named  elegy  is  the  fourth  of  Book  III. 
Here  Ovid  warns  a  jealous  husband  who  guards  his  wife  too 
carefully  that  he  may  successfully  confine  the  body,  but  that  he 
cannot  restrain  the  feelings  nor  control  the  mind:  the  person 
may  be  under  surveillance,  but  the  mind  may  none  the  less  be 
unchaste.  A  sick  man  may  thirst  for  that  which  he  is  forbidden 
to  drink.  The  conclusion  to  be  drawn  is  that  a  wife  may  be 
desired  by  others  only  because  they  infer  that  what  the  husband 
guards  so  well,  must  be  something  unusual.  Finally,  in  the  four- 
teenth elegy  of  Book  III  Ovid  speaks  of  the  dangers  of  a  double 
intrigue  and  of  the  wisdom  of  keeping  love-affairs  secret.  Thus, 
in  all  of  these  poems  may  be  found  elements  which  could  well 
form  a  part  of  the  plot  of  some  novel. 


94  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Now  some  of  the  important  features  of  these  works  by  Ovid 
have,  with  but  slight  variations,  their  parallels  in  the  novela 
of  the  Renascence.  First,  the  go-between,  usually  some  servant, 
is  a  figure  everywhere  in  evidence.  We  had  the  perfected  type 
in  Trotaconventos  of  the  Libro  de  buen  amor,  whose  conception 
was  presumably  influenced  by  the  comparatively  pale  figure  of 
the  old  hag  in  the  Pamphilus,  unless  the  Archpriest  of  Hita  had 
in  mind  the  far  better  drawn  Dipsas,  the  famous  procuress  of 
the  eighth  elegy  of  Book  I  of  the  Am  ores.  Hardly  a  trait  is 
lacking  in  the  presentation  of  this  witch  into  whose  mouth  are 
put  some  of  the  precepts  of  the  Ars  amatoria.  In  the  fifth  elegy 
of  Book  III  this  prototype  of  the  more  celebrated  Celestina  is 
again  mentioned:  "ingenium  dominae  lena  movebit  anus."  v.  40. 

In  the  next  place,  the  servant,  when  won  over,  carries  the 
letters  which  pass  between  the  lovers.  This  constitutes  an  episode 
greatly  developed  in  the  fiction  of  the  Renascence;  Ovid  returns 
to  it  frequently  in  his  amatory  works.70  A  good  example  occurs 
in  the  Amoves,  the  eleventh  and  twelfth  elegies  of  Book  I.  There 
Nape,  Corinna's  maid,  carries  the  correspondence  between  her 
and  the  poet  who  receives  an  unfavorable  answer  to  his  suit. 
But  not  these  works  alone  could  have  suggested  the  use  of  love- 
letters  in  stories :  the  popular  Heroides  consist  of  a  series  of 
epistles  directed  by  famous  mythological  heroines  to  their  lovers, 
and  in  the  case  of  Helen  and  Paris,  Hero  and  Leander,  Acontius 
and  Cydippe  (included  in  the  Heroides,  though  their  authorship 
is  still  open  to  question)  the  men  are  also  represented  in  the 
correspondence  by  letters  addressed  to  their  respective  loves.  All 
of  these  could  indeed  have  served  as  models  for  epistles  intended 
to  voice  outbursts  of  passion,  and  their  sentiments  of  regret, 
anguish  and  loneliness  must  have  had  a  decided  influence  upon 
cartas  de  amores  in  which  either  the  pain  of  separation  or  the 
grief  occasioned  by  loss  was  to  find  expression.  To  show  how 
widely  accepted  was  the  use  of  letters  in  Renascence  fiction,  it 
will  suffice  to  mention  the  fact  that  they  are  to  be  found  in 

to  Cf.  Ars.  amat.  I,  351-2:  Sed  prius  ancillam  captandae  nosse  puellae 
Cura  sit;  accessus  molliet  ilia  tuos;  and  437-8:  Cera  vadum  tentet  rasis 
infusa  tabellis,  Cera  tuae  primum  nuntia  mentis  eat. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  95 

every  type  of  novel,  in  the  romances  of  chivalry,  in  the  pastoral 
novels,  in  most  sentimental  stories  and,  naturally,  in  those  tales 
with  marked  0 vidian  features.  Cervantes  used  love  letters  exten- 
sively in  most  of  his  works. 

With  the  approach  of  day  the  lovers  are  naturally  loath  to 
separate  and  blame  the  rising  dawn  for  intruding  upon  them. 
Ovid  puts  it  crudely :  '  no  man  cares  to  arise  early  except  he  who 
has  no  mistress.'  This  episode  has  been  treated  above  in  con- 
nection with  the  alba  of  the  Troubadours  and  the  tageliet  (cf. 
p.  24)  of  the  Minnesaenger,  and  finds  its  parallel  in  sixteenth 
century  tales. 

In  Ovid,  too,  can  be  found  one  of  the  earliest  expressions  of 
that  literary  warfare  of  subsequent  centuries,  represented  by 
two  camps,  one  of  which  decried  love  and  woman,  while  the  other 
defended  her  by  citing  all  the  noted  examples  of  good  women 
to  be  found  in  history  and  legend.  In  the  Ars  amatoria  III, 
criticism  of  woman  is  admitted,  but  the  defence  is  also  offered 
that  the  many  must  not  be  held  to  blame  for  the  few;  and  as 
there  were  sinful  women,  so  there  were  virtuous  ones,  examples 
being  cited  for  both  sides  of  the  argument.  There  is  a  similar 
discussion  of  the  subject,  but  in  a  spirit  hostile  to  woman,  in 
the  Ars  amatoria,  Book  I,  where,  after  rehearsing  some  of  the 
criminal  passions  of  women,  Ovid  says : 

Omnia  feminea  sunt  ista  libidine  mota.    (v.  341.) 

Women  get  the  worst  of  it,  too,  in  the  discussion  between  Jupiter 
and  Juno,  Metamorphoses,  III,  320-1,  concerning  the  sexes,  for 
the  chief  of  the  gods  (cliff  usus  Hectare,  prolix  because  of  too 
much  nectar)  says  to  his  spouse: 

.  .  .  Maior  vestra  profecto  est, 

Quam,  quae  contingit  maribus,  ["dixisse]  voluptas. 

Ilia  negat,  etc. 

Bustamante,  in  his  Castilian  version,  takes  pleasure  in  enlarging 
on  this  passage  as  follows:  "Vn  dia,  auiendo  mucho  beuido 
[Jupiter],  auia  tornado  pendencia  con  su  muger  Juno  sobre  vna 
contienda  y  porfia  muy  grande,  y  es  que  dize  Jupiter  que  las 


96  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

mugeres  son  mas  suzias  y  luxuriosas  y  liuianas  que  los  varones; 
Juno  dize  que  no  es  verdad  etc.,"  whereupon  they  appeal  to  the 
judgment  of  Tiresias  who  had  been  transformed  into  a  woman  for 
seven  years ;  "este  confirma  con  juramento  y  sentencia  lo  que  dixo 
Jupiter,"  etc.    (f.  46,  verso.) 

Before  leaving  the  discussion  of  Ovid's  "Grammar  of  Love" 
and  his  other  erotic  works,  another  element  of  the  Renascence 
novel  must  be  mentioned,  for  it  is  connected  with  the  influence 
which  Ovid  exerted  in  all  matters  touching  on  the  relation  of  the 
sexes.  I  refer  to  the  frequent  discussions  of  the  nature  of  love. 
These  generally  take  one  of  two  forms :  either  they  deal  with  that 
purely  materialistic  love  of  which  the  Latin  poet  is  the  best 
sponsor  and  defender,  or  they  discuss  that  wholly  platonic  love, 
that  desire  of  beauty  in  the  abstract,  which  is  the  negation  of 
Ovid.  The  romances  in  which  this  occurs  mostly  are  the  pastoral 
novels  and  such  as  maintain  the  tradition  of  the  older  prose 
fiction  by  preserving  the  courtly  tone  of  the  mixed  tales  of 
chivalry  and  adventure.  Ovid  had  given  the  literary  world  an 
authoritative  grammar  of  worldly  love,  against  the  pagan  char- 
acter of  which  was  opposed  the  advocacy  of  principles  of  spiritual 
love,  a  vague,  idealistic  yearning  of  an  indefinable  character.73 
Under  the  influence  of  the  latter  there  grew  up  in  the  fifteenth 
and  sixteenth  centuries  an  extensive  literature  which  really  forms 
a  part  of  the  history  of  mysticism  and  neo-Platonism  modified  by 
certain  doctrines  of  Christianity.  It  is  interesting  to  see  how 
the  principles  and  sentiments  of  this  idealistic  literature  are 
reflected  in  the  dialogues  of  Renascence  fiction.  They  plainly 
had  for  their  object  the  condemnation  of  earthly  love  and  its 
disastrous  effects  on  misguided  mortals.  A  conventional  presenta- 
tion of  the  argument  can  be  found  in  Los  amoves  de  Clareo  y 
Florisea,  by  Nunez  de  Reinoso,72  in  the  lamentations  of  the  love- 


71  Cf.  Menendez  y  Pelayo,  Historia  de  las  ideas  esteticas  en  Espaha, 
segunda  edicion,  vol.  3  (Madrid,  1896);  cap.  vi,  "De  la  Estetica 
Platonica  en  el  siglo  XVI. ' ' 

72  In  Novelistas  anteriores  a  Cervantes,  Biblioteca  de  autores  espanoles, 
III,  p.  437,  eol.  2;  cf.  also  Gaspar  Gil  Polo's  Diana  enamorada,  libro 
primero:  Parescete,  Diana,  que  debe  fiarse  un  entendimiento  como  el  tuyo 
en  cosas  de  aire,  y  que  hay  razon  para  adorar  tan  de  veras  a  cosa  tan  de 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spam  97 

sick  Isea:  "Oh  amor,  y  de  cuantos  daiios  has  sido  causa,  haciendo 
siervos  los  que  son  libres,  y  tornando  locos  a  los  que  son  sabios ! 
Porque,  que  mayor  locura  puede  ser  que  negarse  uno  a  si  mismo, 
y  entregarse  a  otro  por  siervo  y  cautivo,  padeciendo  mayor  mal 
que  los  esclavos  con  sus  sehores?  Porque  ellos  mandan  cosas 
posibles ;  pero  amor  quiere  y  manda  aquellas  que  no  lo  son,  tor- 
nando y  volviendo  a  los  que  siguen  tu  mandado  muertos  para 
consigo,  y  vivos  para  quien  sirven,  forzando  este  cruel  tirano  no 
solamente  a  darse  los  enamorados  la  muerte,  pero  aun  a  intentar 
otras  peores  cosas ;  porque  yo,  aunque  moza,  tengo  leidos  grandes 
dahos  causados  por  el  amor."  Then  follows  the  usual  list  of 
examples  of  those  who  committed  crimes  or  suffered  because  of 
their  passions,  and  Isea  continues:  "y  otras  cosas  grandes  por 
amor  han  acontecido,  como  los  libros  y  grandes  historias  cuentan 
y  destas  historias  estan  llenos."  And  undoubtedly  one  of  the 
books  to  which  Isea  refers  was  the  Metamorphoses,  for  she  cites 
the  amorous  affairs  of  Jupiter,  Mars,  Apollo,  Hercules,  Myrrha 
and  others,  as  examples.  Another  must  have  been  the  Aeneid, 
notably  the  well-known  Improbe  Amor,  quid  non  mortalia  pec- 
tora  cogisf  of  the  Dido  episode.  But  the  pagan  features  in  the 
effects  of  love  on  Isea  are  indebted  chiefly  to  the  influence  of 
the  Ovidian  tradition,  for  she  goes  on  to  say:  "yo  recogida  en 
mi  camara,  sola  hacia  mis  acostumbrados  llantos,  sin  jamas  poder 
olvidar  a  quien  tanto  amaba  y  en  mi  alma  tenia  metido.  No 
pasaron  muchos  dias  sin  que  en  mi  rostro  se  empezo  a  notar  mi 
mal,  perdiendo  el  comer,  no  durmiendo  de  noche  ni  descansando 
de  dia,  sospirando  siempre,  amando  la  soledad,  huyendo  la  com- 
pafiia,  unas  horas  me  asentaba  y  luego  me  tornaba  a  levantar  sin 
poder  tener  ningun  reposo,  abrasandome  en  vivas  llamas,  sin  poder 
con  ninguna  esperanza  aliviar  mi  mal,"  etc.73  This  is  the  vocab- 
ulary of  Ovid.    But  the  counter-argument,  how  Isea  is  to  combat 


burlas  como  el  Dios  de  Amor?  El  cual  es  fingido  por  vanos  entendi- 
mientos,  seguido  de  deshonestas  voluntades,  y  conservado  en  las  memorias 
de  los  hombres  ociosos  y  desocupados. 

73  The  Ovidian  manner  may  also  be  noted  in  the  following  passage 
(cap.  xiii) ;  Clareo  has  just  received  a  typical  "carta  de  arnores": 
Leida  la  letra  por  Clareo,  quedo  maravillado  y  la  color  mudada ;  se 
comenzo  de  abrasar  y  renovar  las  viejas  y  antiguas  Uagas  etc. 


98  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

the  force  of  her  passions,  is  as  yet  feebly  presented,  and  limited 
to  the  statement  that  she  is  to  seguir  al  principio  la  razon. 

A  finer  passage,74  less  slavishly  indebted  to  classical  inherit- 
ances, and  showing  traces  of  the  philosophy  of  the  Renascence, 
can  be  found  in  the  Diana  of  Gaspar  Gil  Polo.  The  pagan  atti- 
tude, subserviency  to  the  god  Love,  is  first  presented  in  a  manner 
similar  to  that  of  Reinoso  just  quoted :  "  los  que  se  hazen  esclavos 
del  Amor,  [que]  en  comenzalle  a  servir,  son  tan  suyos,  que  ni 
quieren  ser  libres,  ni  les  paresce  possible  tener  libertad.  Tu  mal 
bien  se  que  es  amar,  ....  en  la  cual  enfermedad  yo  tengo 
grande  experiencia.  He  sido  muchos  anos  captiva,  y  agora  me 
veo  libre.  .  .  .  Y  pues  para  ella  tuve  remedio,  no  despidas  de 
tu  casa  la  esperanza,  no  cierres  los  ojos  a  la  verdad  ni  los  oidos 
a  mis  palabras.  Palabras  seran  ....  las  que  gastaran  en 
remediar  el  Amor,  cuyas  obras  no  tienen  remedio  con  palabras. 
...  El  poder  del  amor  vence  la  mas  segura  defensa,  y  traspassa 
el  mas  f uerte  impedimento ;  de  cuyas  hazaiias  y  maravillas  en 
este  mesmo  lugar  canto  un  dia  mi  querido  Syreno,"  etc.  Then 
follows  the  counter-argument :  "  Si  sienten  passiones  los  enam- 
orados,  provienen  de  su  mesma  voluntad,  y  no  del  amor :  el  cual 
no  es  sino  una  cosa  imaginada  por  los  hombres,  que  ni  esta  en 
cielo,  ni  en  tierra,  sino  en  el  corazon  del  que  la  quiere. ' '  The  rest 
of  the  long  passage  is  devoted  chiefly  to  ridiculing  the  stereotyped 
vocabulary  inherited  from  Ovid:  fuego,  furor,  muerte,  arder, 
destruirse,  consumirse,  enloquecerse,  consumido,  inflamado  and 
the  like,  and  the  whole  critique  is  best  summed  up  in  a  beautiful 
sonnet : 

No  es  ciego  Amor,  mas  yo  lo  soy  que  guio 

mi  voluntad  camino   del  tormento; 

no  es  nino  Amor,  mas  yo  que  en  un  momento 

espero  y  tengo  miedo,  lloro  y  rio. 
Nombrar  llamas  de  Amor  es  desvario, 

su  fuego  es  el  ardiente  y  vivo  intento, 

sus   alas   son    mi   altivo    pensamiento 

y  la  esperanza  vana  en  que  me  fio. 


74  Gaspar  Gil  Polo,  Diana,  libro  primero. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  99 

No  tiene  Amor  cadenas,  ni  saetas, 

para   prender   y  herir   libres  y   sanos, 

que  en  el  no  hay  mas  poder  del  que  le  damos. 
Porque  es  Amor  mentira   de  poetas, 

sueno  de  locos,  idolo  de  vanos; 

mirad  que  negro  Dios  el  que  adoramos. 

The  best  expression  of  this  opposition  to  the  purely  pagan 
phraseology,  and  for  that  reason  an  excellent  example  of  the 
advocacy  of  purer  and  higher  love,  as  taught  in  the  philosophy 
of  neo-Platonism,  can  be  found  in  the  Galatea  of  Cervantes :  "  Te 
quiero  decir  que  ha  perdido  conmigo  mucho  la  calidad  de  amor 
con  que  yo  pense  que  a  Galatea  querias;  porque  si  solamente  la 
quieres  por  ser  hermosa,  muy  poco  tiene  que  agradecerte,  pues  no 
habra  ningun  hombre,  por  rustico  que  sea,  que  la  mire,  que  no 
la  desee,  porque  la  belleza  dondequiera  que  esta  trae  consigo  el 
hacer  desear :  asi  que  a  este  simple  deseo,  por  ser  tan  natural, 
ningun  premio  se  le  debe,  ....    ;  y  puesto  caso  que  hermosura 
y  belleza  sea  una  principal  parte  para  atraernos  a  desearla  y  a 
procurar  gozarla,  el  que  fuere  verdadero  enamorado  no  ha  de 
tener  tal  gozo  por  ultimo  bien  suyo ;  sino  que  aunque  la  belleza 
le  acarree  este  deseo,  la  ha  de  querer  solamente  por  ser  bueno 
sin  que  otro  algun  interese  le  mueva" ;  etc.    And  again,  returning 
to  the  discussion  a  little  later,  Cervantes  says :  "  Es  pues  amor, 
segun  he  oido  decir  a  mis  may  ores,  un  deseo  de  belleza :  y  esta 
difinicion  le  dan  entre  otras  muchas  los  que  en  esta  cuestion  han 
llegado  mas  al  cabo.    Pues  si  se  me  concede  que  el  amor  es  deseo 
de  belleza,  forzosamente  se  me  ha  de  conceder  que  cual  fuere  la 
belleza  que  se  amare,  tal  sera  el  amor  con  que  se  ama.    Y  porque 
la  belleza  es  en  dos  maneras,  corporea  e  incorporea,  el  amor  que 
la  belleza  corporal  amare  como  ultimo  fin  suyo,  este  tal  amor  no 
puede  ser  bueno,  y  este  es  el  amor  de  quien  yo  soy  enemigo.  .  .  . 
Como  la  belleza  incorporea  se  considera  con  los  ojos  del  enten- 
dimiento  limpios  y  claros,  [y]la  belleza  corporea  se  mira  con  los 
ojos   corporales   en   comparacion   de   los   incorporeos,    turbios   y 
ciegos."    These  citations  have  been  wearisome,  but  they  have  been 
brought  forward  only  because  they  contain  ideas  which  contrast 
sharply  with  the  influence  and  teaching  of  Ovid,  and  because 


100  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

both  points  of  view  can  be  found  represented  in  the  same  dis- 
cussion. This  is  the  case  in  conventional  disputes,  as  for  example, 
between  Wisdom  and  Passion,  represented  by  Pallas  and  Venus, 
in  which  the  authority  of  Ovid  is  logically  brought  forward  to 
defend  the  power  of  earthly  love.  In  Clareo  y  Florisea,  462,  col. 
2,  Pallas  argues:  (men  should  pursue  the  calling  of  arms  and 
letters,  not  love,  which  makes  them  effeminate):  "Cuanto  mas 
provecho  se  alcanza  de  veneer  una  batalla,  conquistar  un  reino, 
ganar  una  ciudad,  que  no  de  andar  en  cosas,  de  las  cuales  no 
resultaba  mas  que  perder  el  tiempo,  gastar  la  hacienda,  aventurar 
la  vida,  perder  la  honra,  cobrar  ruin  fama?  Y,  cuanta  mayor 
gloria  se  alcanza  de  saber  una  obra  de  un  Platon,  un  Aristoteles, 
y  de  otras  ciencias  tan  altas  y  tan  suaves,  que  comparandose  todo 
cuanto  se  ha  escrito  con  ellas,  no  solamente  queda  en  nada,  pero 
aun  la  comparacion  no  se  suf re  ?  Porque  la  tal  doctrina  alegra  el 
animo,  satisface  el  entendimiento,  cobra  el  tiempo,  gana  el  anima, 
y  deja  a  los  que  la  siguen  perpetua  fama  y  eterna  gloria:  que  no 
de  un  Ovidio,  un  Tibulo,  un  Catulo  y  otros,  que  aunque  sus  cosas 
sean  dulces  por  de  fuera,  de  dentro  son  aranas  confitadas,  y  tienen 
secreta  ponzona  y  encubierto  rejalgar. "  Venus  says  in  her  own 
defense:  "Cuanto  a  lo  que  dice  que  los  namorados  no  saben 
letras,  y  que  los  que  escribieron  amores  no  son  dinos  de  fama 
ni  de  gloria,  porque  gastaron  su  tiempo  en  aquellas  amorosas 
vanidades,  a  esto  respondo  que  se  engaiia,  porque  los  namorados 
son  letrados  y  hombres,  y  Ovidio  y  los  mas  que  ella  alega  fueron 
tan  sabios  y  tan  llenos  de  gratia  y  de  erudition  que  no  tuvieron 
ninguna  envidia  a  su  Platon,"  etc.  We  thus  see  that  Plato  was 
the  authority  of  the  platonic  or  mystic  devotees  of  higher  love, 
while  Ovid  held  his  own  as  champion  of  the  love  of  mundane 
beaut v  in  woman. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  101 


THE  ORIGIN  OF  THE  OVIDIAN  TALE  IN  ITALY 

Having  discussed  the  teachings  of  Ovid  as  well  as  those 
features  of  his  works  which  possess  the  nature  of  elements  of 
fiction,  let  us  now  examine  the  earliest  concrete  examples  of  the 
Ovidian  tale  of  the  Renascence;  at  the  same  time  the  testimony 
of  its  indebtedness  to  the  Latin  poet  will  be  presented.  There  was 
but  one  country  in  which  a  purely  bourgeois  type  of  prose  fiction 
could  develop  freely  at  the  dawn  of  the  Renascence  in  literature, 
and  that  was  Italy.  Beside  those  apposite  conditions  of  Italian 
social  life  already  mentioned,  other  factors  were  conducive  to 
the  creation  of  the  erotic  tale:  among  them  are  first  the  influences 
of  literary  traditions  which  go  back  to  the  poetry  of  the  Trouveres 
and  Troubadours.  While  the  amorous  episodes  found  in  the  nar- 
ratives of  the  former  were  more  elevated  in  tone,  or,  at  least, 
more  veiled  in  their  utterance,  the  adulterous  and  illicit  love  of 
which  the  Troubadours  frequently  sang  was  the  frank  expression 
of  a  code  of  morals  deeply  tinged  with  paganism.  Now  the  influ- 
ence of  the  Troubadours  especially  was  far-reaching,  and  left  no 
uncertain  trace  in  the  amatory  features  of  subsequent  fiction. 
An  excellent  example  may  be  found  in  certain  episodes  of  the 
romances  of  chivalry.  But,  as  has  already  been  stated  above,  one 
of  the  potent  influences  with  the  Troubadours  was  the  poetry  of 
Ovid,  and,  if  we  keep  in  mind  the  vogue  which  his  works  enjoyed 
during  the  fourteenth  and  fifteenth  centuries  it  is  easy  to  see 
why  his  precepts  acquired  renewed  prestige. 

In  the  second  place  the  academic  world  gave  Ovid  a  more 
prominent  place  among  its  classical  studies  than  had  been  the  case 
in  the  Middle  Ages,  and  all  who  passed  through  the  schools  had 
ample  opportunity  to  become  acquainted  with  his  books. 

Finally,  when  fiction  was  striving  for  a  new  mould,  and 
needed  but  a  creative  genius  to  give  it  a  definite  form,  suited 
to  the  age  and  the  atmosphere  of  the  Italian  cities,  Boccaccio  was 


102  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

born,  destined  to  be  the  first  great  name  connected  with  the  erotic 
or  Ovidian  type  of  Renascence  fiction.  Owing  to  the  requirements 
of  the  curriculum  of  the  schools,  Boccaccio  was  bound  to  read 
Ovid's  chief  works  with  considerable  care;  by  temperament  he 
was  certain  to  find  in  the  author  of  the  Ars  amatoria  a  kindred 
spirit.  It  is,  therefore,  not  surprising  to  see  how  much  of  the 
Latin  poet  has  been  assimilated,  consciously  or  unconsciously,  by 
Boccaccio.  Indeed,  the  high  esteem  in  which  Ovid  was  held  by 
him  may  be  gathered  from  much  interesting  testimony.75  In 
the  Filocopo  the  two  children  Florio  and  Biancofiore  are  brought 
up  together,  and  both  read  "il  saltero  e  '1  libro  d'Ovidio,  nel 
quale  il  sommo  poeta  mostra  come  i  santi  fuochi  di  Venere  si 
deano  ne'  freddi  cuori  con  sollecitudine  accendere. "  (End  of 
the  first  book  of  Filocopo).  This  unquestionably  refers  to  the 
Ars  amatoria.'6  On  the  general  indebtedness  of  Boccaccio  to 
Ovid  there  is  no  need  of  dwelling  at  length  here ;  the  borrowing 
of  an  occasional  idea  has  long  been  apparent  to  others,  as,  for 
example,  the  opening  of  sonnet  LXIX :  "  Se  io  temo  di  Baia  e 
'1  cielo  e  '1  mare,  la  terra  e  1'  onde, "  etc.,  which  recalls:  Quid 
referam  Baias  praetextaque  littora  velis,  etc.,  tff  the  Ars  amatoria, 
I,  255.  This  and  other  similarities  in  expression,  the  possible 
influence  of  an  episode  of  the  Metamorphoses  IV,  namely,  the 
narratives  of  the  daughters  of  Minyas,  on  the  frame  of  the 
Decameron,  the  description  of  a  plague  in  the  Metamorphoses 
VII,  523  ff.,  and  its  resemblance  to  that  in  the  Decameron,  have 
already  been  pointed  out.77  But  while  Boccaccio  was  trying  out 
his  genius  in  various  kinds  of  literary  expression  which  were  still 
within  the  channel  of  tradition,  namely,  in  romances  of  adventure 
and  chivalry,  in  allegorical  and  mythological  tales,  in  epic  poems, 

75  Cf.  Attilio  Hortis:  Studj  sulle  Opere  Latini  del  Boccaccio,  etc. 
(Trieste,  1879),  pp.  399  ff.;  references  to  Ovid  and  to  his  works  occur 
in  both  the  Filocolo  and  the  Filocopo. 

"6  As  do  also  these  verses  from  the  Amoroso  Visione,  V,  25-7,  in  which 
we  are  told  that  among  other  poets,  Boccaccio  saw 
.  .  .  Oviclio,  lo  quale  poetando 
Iscrisse  tanti  versi  per  amore, 
Come  acquistar  si  potesse  mostrando. 
77  Cf.  M.  Landau,  Die  Quellen  des  Dekameron,  2te  Auflage   (Stuttgart, 
1884),  p.  315;  also  Giov.  Boccaccio,  sein  Leben  und  seine  Werke  (Stuttgart, 
1877). 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Eenascence  in  Spain  103 

he  created  one  work  which  pointed  the  direction  toward  a  new 
kind  of  bourgeois  love  story,  filled  with  illicit  passion,  and 
betraying  in  many  places  influence  of  the  precepts  of  Ovid's 
Grammar  of  Love.    This  he  did  in  his  Fiammetta. 

This  little  romance  is  characterized  by  an  extremely  simple 
plot,  for  the  greater  part  is  given  up  to  Fiammetta 's  lamentations 
in  which,  as  was  shown  in  another  article,78  the  influence  of  Virgil 
is  very  pronounced.  But  the  first  two  chapters  deserve  careful 
analysis,  for  they  contain  practically  all  there  is  of  the  love- 
affair  ;  the  remainder  is  a  masterful  presentation  of  Fiammetta 's 
emotions  after  she  is  deserted  by  Panfilo,79  her  lover.  Hero  and 
heroine  see  one  another  for  the  first  time  in  church.  Fiammetta 
says :  ' '  accompagnata  da  molte,  con  lento  passo  pervenni  al  sacro 
tempio,  nel  quale  gia  il  solenne  uficio  debito  a  quel  giorno  si 
celebrava  ....  ;  e  oltre  a  tutti,  solo  e  appoggiato  a  una  colonna 
marmorea  a  me  dirittissimamente  un  giovane  opposto  vidi,  .... 
contenta  d'  essere  da  lui  riguardata,  talvolta  cautamente  se  esso 
mi  riguardasse  mirava. "  There  are  many  meeting-places  for 
lovers  according  to  Ovid,  and  among  them  are  the  temples  which, 
in  Boccaccio 's  community,  naturally  suggested  the  church.  More- 
over in  one  of  Ovid's  concrete  examples  of  such  an  adventure, 
the  second  elegy,  book  II  of  the  Amoves,  the  poet  meets  his  love 
before  the  temple  of  Apollo : 

Hesterna  vidi  spatiantem  luce  puellam, 

Ula,  quae  Danai  porticus  agmen  habet. 
Protinus,  ut  placuit,  misi  scriptoque  rogavi.    (3-5.) 

Fiammetta  thinks  she  reads  in  his  eyes  the  message:  "0  donna, 
tu  sola  sei  la  beatitudine  nostra,"  which  recalls  Ovid's:  Elige, 
cui  dicas,  tu  mihi  sola  places.    Ars  amatoria  I,  42. 

Fiammetta 's  next  thought  is  to  please  her  lover;  Ovid's 
second  precept  (I,  37) ,  it  will  be  remembered,  was  much  the  same : 
"ne  da  quell'  ora  innanzi  niuno  pensiero  in  me  poteo  se  non  di 

78  Studies  in  Cervantes,  III,  op.  cit. 

79  The  name  Panfilo,  the  entrance  of  Venus  and  her  advice  to  Fiam- 
metta suggest  the  possibility  that  Boccaccio  was  acquainted  with  the 
Pamphilus  de  Amove. 


104  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

piacergli."  Panfilo,  too,  appears  to  be  educated  in  the  precepts 
of  the  Ars  amatoria:  "In  cosi  fatti  sembianti  esso  senza  mutare 
luogo  cautissimo  riguardava,  e  forse,  siccome  esperto  in  piu 
battaglie  amorose,  conoscendo  con  quali  armi  si  dovea  la  disiata 
preda  pigliare,  ciascun'  ora  con  umilta  maggiore  pietosissimo  si 
dimostrava  e  pieno  d'  amoroso  desio."  Fiammetta  is  now  fast 
in  the  snares  of  love :  ' '  Questo  f  u  quel  giorno  nel  quale  io  prima 
di  libera  donna  diventai  miserissima  serva."  Panfilo  succeeds 
in  seeing  her  frequently  and  now  her  peace  of  mind  is  gone ;  she 
confides  in  an  old  servant :  ' '  Ecco  che  gli  cresciuti  ornamenti,  gli 
accesi  sospiri,  i  nuovi  atti,  i  furiosi  movimenti,  la  perduta  quiete, 
e  1'  altre  cose  in  me  per  lo  nuovo  amore  venute,  tra  gli  altri 
domestichi  familiari  a  maravigliarsi  mossero  una  mia  balia  d' 
anni  antica  e  di  senno  non  giovane ;  la  quale  gia  seco  conoscendo 
le  triste  fiamme,  mostrando  di  non  conoscerle,  piu  fiate  mi  riprese 
de'  nuovi  modi." 

Venus  now  enters  and  gives  Fiammetta  a  long  and  rather 
wearisome  piece  of  advice:  The  power  of  love  is  felt  by  all 
creatures,  gods  as  well  as  men  and  the  irrational  beasts;  how 
can  Fiammetta  hope  to  escape  it?  The  long  speech  of  Venus  is 
filled  with  ideas  taken  from  Ovid,  notably  from  the  Ars  amatoria, 
II,  457  ff.,  which  explains  the  origin  of  love  among  all  earthly 
beings  (arte  Venus  nulla  dulce  peregit  opus).  See  also  Heroides 
XV,  37-8. 

Fiammetta  is  a  married  woman,  and  we  are  told  by  her  that 
Panfilo  "s'ingegno  d'  avere  la  familiarita  di  qualunque  m'  era 
parente,  e  ultimamente  del  mio  marito. "  Ovid  suggested  this 
friendship  in  Ars  amatoria  I,  579  ff. ;  gifts  may  be  given  even 
to  the  husband  to  win  him  over,  III,  656.  Of  the  dangers  of 
friendship  Ovid  speaks  on  several  occasions,  for  example,  Ars 
am.  I,  740  quoted  above,  p.  39. 

In  accordance  with  the  ancient  precepts  a  servant  helps  the 
lovers  to  their  goal;  Fiammetta  continues:  "con  quanta  sottile 
esperienza  fosse  per  noi  provata  la  fede  d'  una  mia  famigliaris- 
sima  serva,  alia  quale  diliberammo  di  commettere  il  nascoso 
fuoco,"  etc.     And  finally:  "Panfilo  ebbe  da  me  quello  che  io, 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  105 

siccome  egli,  bench e  del  contrario  infignessimi,  disiava."  This 
recalls  Ovid's  opinion  of  women:  Quae  dant,  quaeque  negant, 
gaudent  tamen  esse  rogatae,  Ars  amatoria,  I,  345,  and:  Haee 
quoque,  quam  poteris  credere  nolle,  volet.  274.  This  has  been 
touched  on  in  a  previous  chapter  apropos  of  Juan  Ruiz's  Libro 
de  buen  amor. 

The  lovers  having  now  gained  their  heart's  desire  the  rest  of 
the  tale  is  devoted  to  their  parting,  the  faithlessness  of  Panfilo 
and  the  lamentations  of  Fiammetta.  But  the  teaching  of  Ovid 
is  still  apparent  and  is  given  a  practical  application  in  Panfilo 's 
actions  and  in  Fiammetta 's  fate.  Absence,  for  example,  chills 
love,  as  it  does  in  the  case  of  Panfilo,  and  a  new  love  is  the 
result : 

....  lentescunt  tempore  curae; 
Vanescitque  absens,  et  novus  intrat  amor.   Ars  am.  II,  357. 

In  the  Remedia  amoris  also  the  precept  is  recorded,  that  absence 
helps  one  to  forget  love,  214  ff. 

Ovid  tells  us  not  only  that  letters  may  awaken  and  stimulate 
love;  for  example:  Scribite,  sermonis  publica  forma  placet  (Ars 
amatoria  III,  480)  ;  but  to  re-read  them,  to  contemplate  gifts  from 
the  loved  one  during  his  absence  helps  to  recall  him  and  deeply 
stirs  the  heart ;  therefore  avoid  memories  of  the  past,  and  do  not 
arouse  pangs  of  jealousy  by  imagining  you  have  a  rival : 
Scripta  cave  relegas  blandae  servata  puellae: 

Constantes  animos  scripta  relecta  movent. 
Omni  pone  feros — pones  invitus—  in  ignes 
Et  die:   Ardoris  sit  rogus  iste  mei. 

Si  potes,  et  ceras  remove:   quid  imagine  muta 

Carperis?  Hoc  periit  Laodamia  modo. 
Et  loca  multa  nocent.    Fugito  loca  conscia  vestri 

Concubitus;  causas  ilia  doloris  habent. 
Eic  fuit,  hie  cubuit ;  thalamo  dormivimus  isto; 

Hie  mini  lasciva  gaudia  nocte  dedit.  (Bern.  am.  717  ff.) 

At  tu  rivalem  noli  tibi  fingere  quemquam  etc.    (769.) 
All  these  things  Fiammetta  does  and  thereby  fans  her  passion 
and  despair.     For  example,  she  recalls  where  Panfilo  reclined: 
"Niuna  parte  della  mia  camera  era  che  io  con  disiderosissimo 


106  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

occhio  non  riguardassi.  o  f ra  me  dieendo :  qui  sedette  Panfilo. 
quivi  giacque.  quivi  mi  promise  di  tornar  tosto.  qui  il  basciai 
io.  e  brievemente  ciaseuu  luogo  m'  era  caro. "  She  compares 
herself  with  Laodamia  which  must  have  been  suggested  by  Ovid: 
"Alcuna  altra  volta  con  piu  gravezza  mi  venne  pensato.  lui  avere 
il  pie  percosso  nel  limitare  dell'  useio  della  nostra  camera,  siccome 
la  fedel  serva  m'  aveva  ridetto :  e  ricordandomi  che  a  niuno 
aV.ro  segnale  Laodomia  prese  tanta  firmezza.  quanta  ad  un  cosi 
fatto.  del  non  reddituro  Protesilao.  gia  molte  volte  ne  piansi. 
quello  medesimo  di  cio  sperando  che  avvenne  etc.  .  .  .  Egli  non 
mi  venne  una  volta  sola  nelT  animo  1'  avere  gia  letto  ne'  versi 
d'  Ovidio.  che  le  fatiche  traevano  a'  giovani  amore  clelle  menti. 
anzi  mi  veniva  tante  volte  quante  io  mi  ricordava  lui  essere  in 
cammino."  (cap.  terzo).  But  the  very  mention  of  Ovid  himself 
was  not  necessary  to  prove  the  indebtedness  of  the  romance  to 
his  "Grammar  of  Love":  the  language  used  in  the  narrative 
recalls  phrases  of  the  Latin  poet,  and  throughout  the  Ovidian 
vocabulary  of  fire,  flame,  disease,  health,  remedy,  medicine,  and 
the  like,  is  in  evidence. 

Not  only  the  Fiammetta  shows  Boccaccio's  indebtedness  to 
the  author  of  the  Ars  amatoria :  the  pastoral  novel  in  verse.  Xin- 
fale  Fiesolano,  ossia  V  innamoramento  di  Affrico  e  Mensola, 
inspired  by  the  writings  of  Latin  antiquity  contains  numerous 
passages  reminiscent  of  Ovid,  and  chiefly  of  the  stereotyped 
phraseology  of  the  emotions.  And  in  the  Corbaccio  again  may 
be  found  an  intrigue  in  which  letters  are  exchanged  and  a  rival 
is  victorious.  Thereupon  the  author,  having  been  deceived  by 
his  love,  gives  vent  to  his  spite  in  a  slashing  criticism  of  woman- 
kind. In  addition  to  what  was  said  above,  it  is  possible  too  that 
some  of  the  tales  inserted  here  and  there  in  the  works  of  Ovid 
were  in  Boccaccio's  mind  when  he  composed  the  Decameron. 
For  example,  his  tales  of  deception  and  trickery  (Vllth  and 
Vlllth  days,  notably  story  4.  Vlllth  day.  with  its  motif  of  sub- 
stitution), may  be  compared  with  the  story  told  in  the  Fasti  III. 
677  ff.  Mars,  who  is  trying  to  win  Minerva,  appeals  to  a  go- 
between  who   deceives   him  and  substitutes   herself   at   the   last 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  107 

moment.  Finally,  references  to  mythological  characters  found 
in  Ovid  are  so  common  in  the  works  of  Boccaccio  that  it  would 
demand  more  space  to  consider  them  than  is  at  my  disposal  here. 

The  next  tale,  a  lineal  descendant  of  Boccaccio's  Fiammetta, 
and  greatly  influenced  by  the  erotic  works  of  Ovid,  is  the  His- 
toric/, de  duobus  amantibus  (1444)  by  Aeneas  Silvio  Piccolomini,80 
better  known  as  Pope  Pius  II.  No  more  representative  work  of 
fiction  of  the  age  of  humanism  and  the  early  Kenascence  could 
be  found,  and  its  depth  of  passion  and  genuine  feeling  give  it 
a  deserved  place  in  the  history  of  the  love  story.  While  still  a 
young  student  at  school  Pius  II  must  have  learned  his  Ovid  by 
heart  as  may  be  inferred  from  an  analysis  of  his  tale  and  a  com- 
parison of  its  language  and  episodes  with  the  Ars  amatoria  and 
the  Amoves.  The  course  of  the  little  romance  develops  along  the 
lines  of  Ovid's  precepts. 

Lucretia,  a  beautiful  woman  of  Siena,  married  to  one  Mene- 
laus,  goes  forth  with  others  to  meet  the  Emperor.  Among  the 
latter 's  retinue  is  Euryalus;  hero  and  heroine  are  described. — 
"Nee  potens  Eurialus  sui,  ut  Lucretiam  vidit,  ardere  puellam 
caepit;-  haerensque  vultui.  nihil  satis  vidisse  putabat.  (p.  34). 
.  .  .  Quis  nunc  Thisbes  et  Pyrami  f abulam  demiretur  ?  inter  quos 
notitiam  primosque  gracilis  vicinia  fecit,  quippe  domos  Jiabuere 
contiguas:  tempore  crevit  amor."  (p.  36;  taken  verbatim 
from  Met.  IV,  57-60). — Lucretia.  burning  with  love  thinks 
of  classical  heroines  in  similar  straits;  the  rape  of  Helen. 
the  abduction  of  Ariadne  and  Medea  occur  to  her.  Euryalus 
frequently  passes  the  house  of  Lucretia.  where  she  appears 
to  him  in  a  balcony;  he,  too,  justifies  his  love  by  an  appeal 
to  Ovid's  dictum,  that  no  one,  neither  among  men  or  beasts  is 
exempt  from  love,  (cf.  Ars  amatoria,  II,  481  ff.)  and  he  quotes 
two  verses  from  the  Heroides:  (Epistola  XV  Sappho  Phaoni. 
37-8) 

Et  variis  albae  junguntur  saepe  columbae, 
Et  niger  a  viridi  turtur  amatur  ave.    (p.  48.) 


so  Aeneae   Silvii   Picholominei   postea   Pii   Papae   Secundi   Historia   de 
duobus  amantibus   (cum  italica  versione)    (Capolago,  1832). 


108  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

These  verses  Boccaccio  had  incorporated  in  his  Fiammetta  as 
follows:  "Per  costui  (Love)  la  tortola  il  suo  maschio  seguita.  e 
le  nostre  colombe  ai  suoi  colombi  vanno  dietro  con  caldissimi 
affezione,"  etc.  Euryalus  now  hires  a  procuress  to  carry  a 
letter  to  Lucretia,  which  is  given  in  full  as  well  as  others  that 
follow.  In  this  procedure  Pius  II  introduced  a  novel  and  excel- 
lent way  of  describing  their  growing  mutual  passion.  The  idea 
could  have  been  suggested  to  him  by  the  Hevoides,  the  Amoves 
and  the  hints  at  letters  in  the  Avs  amatovia  and  the  Remedia 
amoris.  The  conception  of  a  love  story,  cast  entirely  in  epistolary 
form  was  taken  up  by  Juan  de  Segura81  in  his  Epistolario  o 
Processo  de  cartas  de  amoves  que  entve  dos  amantes  pasaron. 

Lucretia  pretends  to  be  offended:  "Erat  lenocinio  notata 
mulier ;  nee  id  Lucretiam  latebat :  permolesteque  tulit  nef  andam 
feminam  ad  se  mitti ;  atque  in  earn  versa :  Quae  te,  ait,  scelesta, 
in  hanc  domum  audacia  duxit?  (p.  52).  .  .  .  I  ocius,  venefica, 
tuasque  literas  tecum  defer:  immo  da  potius  ut  lacerem  ignique 
dedam.  Arripiensque  papyrum,  in  partes  diversas  scidit,"  etc. 
The  procuress,  however,  knows  her  business  and  is  not  frightened. 
She  realizes,  too,  that  Lucretia  is  actually  in  love  with  Euryalus. 
"Lucretia,  autem,  postquam  anus  evasit,  fragmenta  perquirens 
epistolae,  partieulas  quasque  suo  loco  reponit,  et  lacera  verba 
contexuit,  jamque  legibile,  chirographum  fecerat. "  (p.  54.)  She 
then  answers  his  letter,  Euryalus  replying  with  gifts.  Again 
Lucretia  compares  the  situation  with  that  of  well-known  mytho- 
logical heroes  and  heroines,  those  mentioned  being  Medea  and 
Jason,82  (Hevoides  XII),  Ariadne  and  Theseus  (X),  Dido  and 


si  Cf.  Menendez  y  Pelayo,  Origenes,  op.  cit.,  I,  p.  ccciii. 
82  The  deception  practiced  by  Jason,  Theseus,  Demophon,  and  Aeneas 
is  mentioned  Ars  a  mat.  Ill,  31  ff.;   Pius  II  may  have  had  in  mind   the 
following  passage: 

Saepe   viri  fallunt;    tenerae   non   saepe   puellae; 
Paucaque,  si  quaeras,  crimina  fraudis  habent. 
Phasida  iam  matrem  fallax  dimisit  Jason; 

Venit  in  Aesonios  altera  nupta  sinus. 
Quantum  in  te,  Theseu,  volucres  Ariadna  marinas 

Pavit,  in  ignoto  sola  relicta  loco. 
Quaere,  novem  cur  una  viae  dicantur,  et  audi: 

Depositis  silvas  Phyllida  flesse  comis. 
Et  famam  pietatis  habet,  tamen  hospes  et  ensem 
Praebuit  et  causam  mortis.  Elissa,  tuae. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  109 

Aeneas  (VII);  she  does  not  desire  the  fate  of  Phyllis  (II), 
nor  of  Sappho  (XV).  Euryalus  responds:  men,  too,  have  been 
deceived  by  women,  and  he  cites  the  cases  of  Troilus  abandoned 
by  Chryseis,  Deiphobus  by  Helen,  the  lovers  of  Circe  whom  she 
changed  to  beasts,  and  he  appeals  to  Ovid  for  further  testimony : 
"Sed  tu  Ovidium  legisti,  invenistique  post  Trojam  direptam 
Achivorum  plurimos  dum  remeant,  peregrinis  retentos  amoribus, 
numquam  in  patriam  revertisse. "    (p.  66.) 

Menelaus,  the  name  of  Lucretia's  husband,  was  perhaps  sug- 
gested by  the  Ars  amatoria,  II,  359  ff . : 

Dum  Menelaus  abest,  Helene,  ne  sola  iaceret, 

Hospitis  est  tepido  nocte  recepta  sinu. 
Quis  stupor  hie,  Menelae,  fuit?    Tu  solus  abibas; 
Isdem  sub  tectis  hospis  et  uxor  erant. 

According  to  this  passage  husbands  should  guard  their  wives. 
Now  Menelaus  keeps  watch  over  Lucretia  with  exaggerated  care ; 
Ovid  is  explicit  on  this  point,  that  the  husband,  be  he  as  watchful 
as  Argus,  may  yet  be  deceived:  (Ars  amatoria,  III,  611  ff.) 

Qua  vafer  eludi  possit  ratione  maritus, 
Quaque  vigil  custos,  praeteriturus  eram. 

Nupta  virum  tiraeat,  rata  sit  custodia  nuptae. 

Te  quoque  servari,  modo  quam  vindicta  redemit, 

Quis  ferat?     Ut  f alias,  ad  mea  sacra  veni. 
Tot  licet  observent, — assit  modo  certa  voluntas — 

Quot  fuerant  Argo  lumina,  verba  dabis. 
Scilicet  obstabit  custos,  ne  scribere  possis, 

Sumendae  detur  cum  tibi  tempus  aquae? 
Conscia  cum  possit  scriptas  portare  tabellas, 

Quas  tegat  in  tepido  fascia  lata  sinu?  etc. 

Pius  II  recalled  this,  and  wrote:  "Nee  tan  diligenter  bovem 
Junonis  Argus  custodivit,  quam  Menelaus  jusserat  observari 
Lucretiam. "  (p.  70.)  Euryalus  absents  himself  for  a  short 
while,  which  but  increases  Lucretia's  passion.  This  precept  is 
expressed  clearly  in  the  Ars  amatoria,  II,  349-50  and  357.  Then 
follows  the  plan  by  which  Euryalus  gains  admission  to  the  house. 
The  sentiments  expressed  at  this  point  are  purely  pagan :  ' '  Com- 
mune malum  libido  est,  nee  homo  est  quem  pestis  haec  non  agitet, 


110  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.4 

et  ille  castior  habetur  qui  cautior  agit. "  (p.  76. )  And :  ' ' Primus 
sapieutiae  gradus  est  non  amare.  Secundus,  ut  sic  ames  ne  palam 
fiat."  (p.  76.)  Ovid  had  said:  [Veneris  mysteria]  Attamen  inter 
nos  medio  versantur  in  usu,  Sed  sic,  inter  nos  ut  latuisse  velint. 
(Avs  amatoria,  II,  611-2.)  And,  every  one  is  guilty  of  this 
desire:  Quod  tu,  quod  faceret  quilibet.  ille  facit  [adulter]  (366.) 
In  the  disguise  of  a  carrier  (vector)  the  lover  obtains  access  to 
Lucretia.  That  he  should  lower  himself  by  this  transformation 
for  the  sake  of  gratifying  his  passion  is  again  justified  by  an 
appeal  to  Ovid :  ' '  Hoc  est  quod  Ovidius  Metamorphoseon  innuere 
vult,  dum  fieri  ex  hominibus  aut  bestias,  scribit,  aut  lapides,  aut 
plantas. "  (p.  78.)  In  the  midst  of  their  interview  the  lovers 
are  interrupted,  (Ovid  suggests  this  in  Ars  amatoria,  III,  607-8.) 
Callida  prosiliat  dictaque  ancilla:  Perimus! 
Tu  iuvenem  trepidum  quolibet  abde  loco. 

The  husband  appears,  the  lover  is  concealed,  but  the  wife  gets 

rid  of  the  unwelcome  intruder  easily.     For  the  sake  of  winning 

Lucretia,  however,  Euryalus  would  endure  any  danger,  run  any 

risk.     This  sentiment  is  in  accordance  with  the  precept  of  Ars 

amatoria,  II,  233  ff.    Lucretia  gradually  yields  to  the  desires  of 

Euryalus:    "arreptaque    mulieris    veste,    pugnantem    feminam, 

quae  vinceve  noleoat  absque  negocio  vicit."     This  is  merely  a 

fusion  of  two  similar  passages  in  Ovid;  one,  in  the  Amoves,  I, 

v.  14-5,  is  given  below,  and  the  other  is  in  the  Avs  amatoria  I, 

663-6 : 

Quis  sapiens  blandis  non  misceat  oscula  verbis? 

Ilia  licet  non  det,  non  data  sume  tamen. 
Pngnabit  primo  fortassis  et  'Irn probe'  dicet; 

Pugnando   vinci   sed   tamen   ilia   volet. 

The  two  erotic  passages  describing  the  meetings  of  the  lovers 
are  very  clearly  indebted  to  Ovid,  Amoves,  I,  v. 
Ecce,  Corinna  venit,  tunica  velata  recincta, 

Candida  dividua  colla  tegente  coma : 
Qualiter  in  thalamos  formosa  Semiramis  isse 

Dicitur,   et  multis  Lais  amata  viris. 
Deripni  tunicam ;   nee  multum  rara  nocebat : 

Pugnabat   tunica   sed   tamen  ilia   tegi. 
Cumque  ita  pugnaret,  tanquam  quae  vincere  nollet, 

Victa  est  non  aegre  proditione  sua. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  111 

Ut  stetit  ante  oculos  posito  velamine  nostros, 

In  toto  nusqnam   corpore  menda   fuit. 
Quos  humeros,  quales  vidi  tetigique  lacertos! 

Forma  papillarum  quam  fuit  apta  premi! 
Quam  castigato  planus  sub  peetore  venter! 

Quantum  et  quale  latus!  quam  iuvenile  femur! 
Singula   quid   referam?   nil   non   laudabile   vidi; 

Et  nudam  pressi  corpus  ad  usque  meum. 
Caetera  quis  neseit?  lassi  requievimus  ambo. 

Proveniant  medii  sic  mihi  saepe  dies. 

This  Pius  II  uses  as  follows:  "Erat  Lucretia  levi  vestita  palla. 
quae  membris  absque  ruga  haerebat,  nee  vel  pectus  vel  clunes 
mentiebatur.  Ut  erant  artus,  sic  se  ostendebant.  Gulae  candor 
nivalis,  oculorum  lumen  tamquam  solis  jubar.  .  .  .  Pectus 
amplum,  papillae,  quasi  duo  punica  poma,  ex  utroque  latere 
tumescebant,  pruritumque  palpitantes  movebant.  Non  potuit 
Eurialus  ultra  stimulum  cohibere  etc.  Obstabat  mulier,  curamque 
sibi  honestatis  et  famae  fore  dicebat,  nee  aliud  ejus  amorum  quam 
verba  et  oscula  poscere."  (p.  86).  And  again:  "Et  nunc  os, 
nunc  genas,  nunc  oculos  commendabat.  Elevatoque  non  num- 
quam  lodice,  secreta  quae  non  viderat  antea  contemplabatur,  et, 
Plus,  dicebat,  invenio  quam  putaram.  Talem  levantem  vidit 
Attheon  in  fonte  Dianam  (Met.  III).  Quid  his  membris  for- 
mosius?  quid  candidius?  Jam  redemi  pericula.  ...  0  pectus 
decorum!  0  papillae  praenitidae !  vosne  tango?  vosne  habeo? 
vosne  manus  incidistis  meas?  0  teretes  artus  !  0  redolens  corpus ! 
tene  ego  possideo?"  etc.  (p.  120  ff.)  This  is  followed  by  a 
supplication  to  Apollo  and  to  Aurora,  begging  for  a  delay :  ' '  Sed 
heu !  quam  veloces  horae.  Invida  nox,  cur  f ugis  ?  Mane,  Apollo, 
mane  apud  inferos  diu.  Cur  equos  tarn  cito  in  jugum  trahis? 
Sine  plus  graminis  edant.  Da  mihi  noctem  ut  Alcmenae  dedisti. 
Cur  tu  tarn  repente  Tithoni  tui  cubile  relinquis,  Aurora  ?  Si  tarn 
illi  grata  esses  quam  mihi  Lucretia,  hand  tam  mane  surgere  te 
permitteret. "  (p.  122.)  There  are  some  unusual  similarities 
between  this  passage  and  the  Amoves  I,  xiii,  a  poem  which  was 
discussed  at  length  above  in  connection  with  the  Alba  songs  of 
the  Provencal  poets;  (cf.  p.  24.) 


112  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

On  another  occasion,  with  the  help  of  Sosia  as  go-between, 
Euryalus  overcomes  all  obstacles  to  his  entrance  by  going  through 
a  window.  The  Ars  amatoria,  II,  246,  suggests  this  as  a  suitable 
procedure :  Det  quoque  furtivas  alta  fenestra  vias.  And  finally, 
when  he  has  departed  secretly,  never  to  return,  Lucretia  sends 
him  a  letter  expressing  her  love  and  despair,  to  which  Euryalus 
replies  that  he  was  obliged  to  go,  that  he  would  return,  swearing 
fidelity  to  his  love,  etc.,  the  tone  of  all  of  which  can  be  found  in 
certain  passages  of  the  Heroides. 

One  more  characteristic  episode  may  owe  something  to  the 
Amores,  to  which,  as  much  as  to  any  of  Ovid 's  works,  the  Historia 
is  indebted.  During  the  absence  of  the  husband,  the  brother, 
Agamemnon,  guards  the  house  rather  too  carefully.  Thereupon 
the  friend  and  go-between  of  Euryalus  urges  Agamemnon  to  go 
to  bed  in  order  that  the  lover  who  stands  without  may  have 
occasion  to  enter.  Agamemnon,  however,  insists  on  seeing  first 
that  the  house  is  properly  locked:  "Antea  tamen  inspiciendae 
sunt  fores  an  satis  firmatae  sint,  ne  furibus  pateant. — Veniensque 
ad  ostium  nunc  imam  nunc  aliam  seram  admovit  et  pessulum 
addidit.  Erat  illic  ingens  ferrum,  quod  vix  duo  poterant  elevare, 
quo  nonnumquam  ostium  claudebatur ;  quod  postquam  Agamem- 
non movere  non  potuit :  Juvame,  inquit,  Pandale :  admoveamus 
ferrum  hoc  ostio,  turn  dormitum  ibimus.  Audiebat  hos  sermones 
Eurialus;  et  actum  est,  tacitus  ait,  si  hoc  ferramentum  adjungi- 
tur.  Turn  Pandalus :  Quid  tu  paras,  Agamemnon?  tamquam 
domus  obsidenda  sit,  firmare  ostium  paras.  An  tut  a  sumus  in 
civitate?  Libertas  hie  est,  et  quies  omnibus  eadem.  Turn  hostes 
procid  sunt  quibus  cum  bellum  gerimus  Florentini.  Si  fures 
times,  sat  clausum  est.  Si  hostes,  nihil  est  quod  in  hac  domo  te 
possit  tueri.  Ego  hac  nocte  non  subibo  hoc  onus,  quia  scapulas 
doleo,  et  infra  sum  fractus,  nee  gestandis  oneribus  sum  idoneus. 
Aut  tu  leva  aut  sine.  Vah,  satis  est,"  etc.  (p. 116-8).  Now  in 
I,  vi,  29  ff.  of  the  Amores,  Ovid  begs  the  porter  to  open  the  door 
in  order  that  he  may  enter  the  house  of  his  beloved.  Why  bar 
the  portals? 

Urbibus  obsessis  clausae  munimina  portae 
Prosint:   in  media  pace  quid  arma  times? 
Quid  facies  hosti,  qui  sic  excludis  amantem?  etc. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  113 

Throughout  the  story  there  are  frequent  references  to  the 
mythological  characters  in  Ovid,  and  to  their  unhappy  fate ;  and 
the  stereotyped  vocabulary  of  passion,  so  frequently  spoken  of, 
can  be  found  in  the  Historia  likewise.  Of  Lucretia's  death  and 
the  indebtedness  of  that  episode  to  Virgil,  I  have  spoken  else- 
where.83 

The  influence  of  these  two  stories,  the  Fiammetta  and  the 
Historia  de  duobus  amantibus  was  far-reaching;  the  latter  was 
translated  into  Italian,  and  both  were  soon  known  in  Spanish 
versions.84  But  it  was  natural  that  this  type  of  fiction  could  not 
develop  on  any  large  scale  outside  of  Italy ;  there  the  life  of  the 
cities  had  given  that  kind  of  product  of  the  imagination  an 
appropriate  stamp.  In  the  culture  of  Spain  and  France,  how- 
ever, centralized  monarchies  as  they  were  fast  becoming,  with 
well-defined  aristocratic  traditions,  there  was  as  yet  no  room  for 
the  spread  of  a  type  of  prose  fiction  distinctly  marked  with  the 
impress  of  the  people.  In  the  fifteenth  century,  therefore,  the 
sentimental  story  of  love  and  passion  betrays  only  at  times  a 
bourgeois  tone  due  to  the  influence  of  Ovid  and  the  Ovidian  tale 
which  was  exemplified  best  in  Italy  in  the  romances  of  Boccaccio 
and  Pius  II,  just  analyzed;  more  generally  it  assumes  the  tradi- 
tional courtly  tone  inherited  from  verse  narratives  and  the  more 
fantastic  prose  romances.  The  prominence  of  the  latter  type 
will  become  apparent,  as  we  now  return  to  the  literature  of 
Spain.  There  we  shall  see  that  the  same  century  which  produced 
in  Italy  a  conte  intime,  such  as  the  love-story  of  Euryalus  and 
Lucretia,  handed  down  also  the  older  form  and  fashion  in 
romances,  more  in  keeping  with  that  spirit  which  Spanish  readers 
of  fiction  knew  so  well;  and  the  development  of  the  short  story, 
genuine  in  everything  that  regards  the  true  psychology  of  senti- 
ment and  character,  was  to  be  put  off  to  a  still  distant  future. 


83  Studies  in  Cervantes,  III. 

84  La  Fiameta  de  Juan  Vocacio  (Salamanca,  1497) ;  and  Historia  de 
dos  amantes,  de  Eneas  Silvio  Piccolomini  (Barcelona,  1907),  a  reprint  by 
R.  Foulche-Delbosc  of  the  edition  of  Sevilla,  1512;  the  first  was  that  of 
Salamanca,  1496. 


University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 


3 

THE  CONTINUATION  OF  THE  OVIDIAN  TRADITION  IN 

SPANISH  PROSE  FICTION 

At  the  opening  of  the  sixteenth  century  the  application  of 
Ovid's  precepts,  with  their  frank  pagan  materialism,  their  care- 
ful analysis  of  motives,  their  varied  presentation  of  the  charac- 
ters found  in  crowded  city  life,  was  not  yet  sufficiently  effective 
to  destroy  at  once  the  love  for  the  older  type  of  romance  of 
mingled  adventure,  battle,  travel  and  intrigue.  The  time  had 
not  yet  come  for  a  story  based  on  careful  presentation  of  reason- 
able occurrences  and  causes  without  a  concession  at  every  moment 
to  Fort  una  and  blind  chance.  Nor  had  the  language  of  fiction 
yet  reached  that  stage  at  which  it  was  possible  to  present  a  mental 
attitude,  to  analyze  feelings  and  emotions,  to  introduce  episodes 
and  events  with  simplicity  and  directness.  As  long  as  a  heroine 
could  not  give  vent  to  her  grief  without  recalling  the  troubles  of 
Medea,  or  Ariadne,  or  Dido,  there  was  small  hope  of  a  portrayal 
of  character  which  would  appeal  to  all  classes  and  to  future  ages 
as  well. 

But  in  certain  kinds  of  realism  the  new  as  well  as  the  tradi- 
tional kind  of  romance  approached  an  overwhelming  tone  of 
candor  and  directness ;  we  saw  it  in  such  tales  as  that  of  Pius  II, 
and  in  the  romances  of  chivalry,  especially  the  later  ones,  in 
which  all  else  is  vague  or  impossible,  erotic  episodes  take  on 
an  unequivocal  preciseness  of  detail.  This  feature,  however,  was 
due  to  the  fact  that  amatory  elements  of  fiction  form  an  unbroken 
tradition  from  ancient  times  because  of  their  popularity  among 
all  peoples.  In  the  development  of  the  Italian  sentimental  story 
of  love  and  passion,  discussed  in  the  last  chapter,  the  application 
of  Ovid's  precepts  and  the  adoption  of  his  examples  were  largely 
instrumental  in  giving  the  erotic  features  of  that  story  both  a 
naive  and  shocking  frankness.  In  Spanish  fiction  Ovidian  influ- 
ence is  apparent  also,  although  it  does  not  always  assume  a 
striking  prominence. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  115 

Within  the  century  of  the  Historia  de  duobus  amantibus,  we 
have  therefore  an  interesting  contrast  between  that  romance  and 
El  siervo  libre  de  amor,  by  Juan  Rodriguez  de  la  Camara  (or  del 
Padron).S5  This  tale  is  wholly  within  the  channel  of  tradition, 
and  even  the  narrative  of  what  appears  to  have  been  a  personal 
experience  did  not  prevent  the  author  from  following  the  old 
fashion  in  fiction :  the  adventurous  type  dominates  the  tale  and 
weakens  any  real  expression  of  personal  experience  or  individual 
sentiment.  The  courtly  tone  of  the  age  of  chivalry  still  prevails 
and  the  popularity  of  the  story  in  aristocratic  circles  is  thus  easily 
explained.  But  returning  to  the  contrast  which  El  siervo  libre 
de  amor  makes  with  the  story  of  Euryalus  and  Lucretia,  this  is 
of  especial  interest  to  us  nowadays  because  Rodriguez  de  la 
Camara 's  romantic  tale  is  by  its  differences  as  much  a  charac- 
teristic expression  of  Spanish  taste  and  Peninsular  society  as  the 
realistic  novel  of  Pius  II  is  a  reflection  of  that  of  Italy.  The 
Spanish  tone  is  chivalrous,  monarchic,  aristocratic,  romantic  in 
the  conventional  sense ;  the  Italian  is  bourgeois,  democratic,  real- 
istic, and  a  better  expression  of  humanism  and  the  early  Renas- 
cence. 

Rodriguez  de  la  Camara  betrays  no  evidence,  as  far  as  I  am 
aware,  of  any  influence  of  the  erotic  works  of  Ovid,  nor  of  the 
writings  of  Boccaccio,  and  thus  demonstrates  how  much  a  Spanish 
writer  of  fiction  about  1440  could  still  remain  under  a  spell  of 
inherited  tradition  and  taste.  This  is  all  the  more  strange,  as 
Rodriguez  de  la  Camara  was  well  acquainted  with  both  authors, 
especially  with  Ovid;  he  makes  the  usual  concessions  to  his 
prestige  as  a  classic  by  references  to  him  and  to  characters  in 
his  works,  and  he  even  went  so  far  as  to  make  a  Spanish  version 
of  the  Heroides.  This  he  did  by  an  exceedingly  loose  treatment 
of  the  original,  giving  it  at  the  same  time  the  tone  and  the 
language  of  a  work  of  fiction  of  his  own  day.  The  Epistolas  de 
Ovidio,  or  Bursario,  as  the  translator  called  them,  because  in 
their   compendious   form   the   reader   could   carry   them    in   his 


85  Obras  de  Juan  Bodriguez  de  la  Camara  in  the  Sociedad  de  Bibliofilos 
espanoles "(Madrid,  1884),  p.  37  ff.,  edited  by  D.  Antonio  Paz  y  Melia. 


116  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

pocket,  is  thus  an  extremely  important  work;  it  represents  one 
of  the  first  steps  of  the  process  by  which  the  works  of  Ovid, 
notably  the  Metamorphoses  and  the  Heroides,  assumed  a  modern 
garb  and  so  became  a  part  of  Spanish  fiction  of  the  Renascence. 
The  mediaeval  interpretation  of  Ovid,  which  tried  to  find  an 
esoteric  reason  for  all  that  he  wrote  and  which  adopted  an 
allegorical  scheme  of  explaining  his  mythological  characters  and 
their  actions,  still  finds  a  voice  in  Rodriguez  de  la  Camara.  The 
latter  tells  us  about  the  Heroides :  "  La  materia  deste  tratado  es 
de  amor  licito  e  illicito,  honesto  y  deshonesto,  cuerdo  y  loco.  La 
intincion  suya  es  loar  a  vnas  de  amor  licito  y  honesto,  asy  como 
a  Penalope,  que  amo  a  su  marido  Ulixes ;  y  a  otras  reprehende 
de  amor  deshonesto,  asy  como  a  Islifle86  que  amo  a  Jason,  su 
huespet.  Actoridat  para  esto  :  Certus  in  hospitibus  non  est  amor ; 
que  quiere  decir:  En  los  viandantes  o  huespedes  no  hay  cierto 
amor.  A  otras  reprehende  de  loco  amor,  asy  como  a  Oenone,  la 
qual  amo  a  Paris  seyendo  miio,  por  lo  qual  non  lo  deuiera  amar, 
ca  son  los  niiios  inconstantes  por  la  su  variable  hedat.  La  vtilidat 
es  que  leydo  este  tratado,  ayamos  noticia  de  las  maneras  diuersas 
de  amar."  He  had  said  at  the  outset:  "Aqui  comienca  el 
tratado  que  hizo  Ouidio  Publio  Naso,  y  llamase  Nereydos  (sic)  ;87 
que  quiere  dezir :  de  las  duehas  o  seiioras.  E  sy  fuere  preguntado 
por  que  fue  mas  intitulado  o  apropiado  a  las  duenas  que  a  los 
caualleros,  responderse  a,  por  que  en  este  mundo  mas  aman  ellas 
que  no  ellos."  (p.  198.)  And  here  he  seems  to  have  in  mind 
lines  341-2,  Book  I  of  the  Ars  amatoria,  to  which  he  had  referred 
but  a  little  before  as  El  tractado  de  arte  amandi  :88 

Omnia  feminea  sunt  ista  libidine  mota: 
Acrior  est  nostra  plusque  furoris  habet. 


86  Meaning  Hypsipyle  of  the  sixth  letter  of  the  Heroides. 

87  Cf.  Bibliographical  appendix:  Mss.  Q.  224  of  the  Biblioteca  nacional 
of  Madrid;  ef.  Obras  de  Juan  Rodriguez  de  la  Camara,  op.  cit.,  pp.  xxi,  xxx 
(Introduccion),  p.  391   (notes). 

ss  Speaking  of  the  Epistolas,  las  quales  eran  ya  dadas  a  grand 
oluidantja,  y  por  la  su  grand  utilidad  reduxolas  a  las  memorias,  segund 
que  dize  en  el  tractado  de  Arte  amandi:  Ignotum  hoc  aliis  ipse  nouauit 
opus;  que  quiere  dezir:  Ouidio  renouo  aqueste  tratado,  que  era  a  todos 
ignoto.     The  verse  is  A.  A.  Ill,  346,  ille  for  ipse. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  117 

At  the  beginning  of  each  epistle  Rodriguez  de  la  Camara  deems 
it  fitting  to  give  us  the  moral  which  Ovid  intended  to  convey  in 
that  particular  poem. 

Productions  in  the  field  of  sentimental  or  amatory  fiction  were 
not  numerous  during  the  fiftenth  century,  the  next  work  worthy 
of  note  being  the  Tratado  de  amoves  de  Amalte  y  Lucenda^  by 
Diego  de  San  Pedro.  In  this  story  we  again  approach  Boccaccio 
and  Pius  II  because  of  certain  features  which  form  the  frame- 
work of  the  intrigue  and  which  recall  the  precepts  of  Ovid.  In 
fact  it  is  a  curious  mixture  in  which  may  be  found  the  tone  of 
the  older  feudal  romances  mixed  with  an  unmistakable  trace  of 
the  Ovidian  tradition.  The  author  meets  a  knight  who  tells  his 
sad  story  as  follows:  He  has  seen  Lucenda  at  her  father's 
funeral,90  and  makes  advances  to  her  by  both  letter  and  messen- 
ger. Of  course  she  tears  the  lover's  first  letter  to  pieces  as  does 
Lucretia  in  the  Historic/,  de  duobus  amantibus,  whereupon  he 
approaches  her  at  matins  disguised  as  a  woman,  a  motif  which 
has  occurred  in  fiction  since  time  immemorial.  Ovid  had  used  it 
in  connection  with  Achilles  who  deceived  Deidamia  (Ars 
amatoria,  I,  697)  : 

Forte  erat  in  thalamo  virgo  regalis  eodem: 

Haec  ilium  stupro  comperit  esse  virum. 
Viribus  ilia  quidem  victa  est ;  ita  credere  oportet : 

Sed  voluit  vinci  viribus  ilia  tamen.ai 


89  Reprinted  by  Foulche-Delbosc  in  Revue  Hispanique,  XXV,  no.  67, 
pp.  220  ff.;  the  first  edition  is  mentioned  by  Gayangos  and  Salva  as 
Burgos,  1491;  the  Ovidian  vocabulary  of  passion  is  frequently  in  evidence: 
Arnalte's  illness  or  disease  are  mentioned;  his  sister  says:  "mi  hermano 
crece  en  dolor  y  descrece  en  salud  y  los  remedios  le  son  enemigos"  (p. 
257). 

90  Ovid,  recalling  the  Milesian  tales  he  must  have  known  well,  says, 
with  a  reference,  perhaps,  to  some  story  like  "the  Widow  of  Ephesus": 
Funere  saepe  viri  vir  quaeritur,  a  (new)  husband  may  be  found  at  the 
husband's  funeral. 

91  For  bibliography  on  Achilles  disguised  as  a  girl  cf.  P.  Strauch  's 
edition  of  Jansen  Enikels  Werke,  I  Die  Weltchronilc,  in  Monumenta  Ger- 
maniae  Historica.  Scriptorum  qui  vernacula  lingua  usi  sunt.  Tom.  Ill, 
Pars  I  (Hannover,  1891),  note  5,  p^  276;  Enikel's  version  is  called  "Eine 
von  der  sonstigen  tiberlieferung  vollig  abweichende  Erzahlung  vom 
Aufenthalt  des  Achilles  am  Hofe  des  Lycomedes  auf  Scyrus";  cf.  also 
Hanns  Oertel,  "Contributions  from  the  Jaiminlya  Brahmana  to  the  History 
of  the  Brahmana  Literature,"  Journal  of  the  American  Oriental  Society, 
vol.  XXVI,' 1905,  pp.  310  ff. 


118  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Though  Lueencla  makes  Arnalte  no  promises,  he  continues  his 
suit  with  the  aid  of  his  sister,  by  means  of  verses,  serenades  and 
letters,  but  with  little  result.  Ovidian  precepts  expressed  are : 
"el  secreto  es  del  amador  corona";  "es  regla  general  tenida,  que 
todas  las  cosas  que  auer  no  se  pueden.  son  estimadas  y  despues 
de  auidas  suelen  en  menosprecio  venir"  ;  "los  que  las  enamoradas 
leyes  seguis  quando  con  cautela  venceys.  gran  vitoria  pensays  que 
ganays. ' '  Finally  Arnalte  entrusts  his  secret  to  his  friend  Yerso. 
This  rash  act  proves  to  be  his  undoing  later.  Again  his  sister 
tries  to  aid  him  in  his  suit  by  persuading  Lucenda  to  write  a 
letter  to  Arnalte :  the  heroine  yields,  however,  only  to  the  plea 
that  her  lover  is  about  to  absent  himself.  He  then  begs  to  see 
her  before  his  departure.  Unfortunately  for  Arnalte  his  friend 
Yerso  in  whom  he  had  confided  supplants  him  in  Lucenda 's  affec- 
tions and  marries  her ;  all  of  which  recalls  to  Arnalte  the  dangers 
of  friendship.  Ovid  has  already  told  us  on  this  point : 
Heu  mihi!  non  tutum  est,  quod  ames,  laudare  sodali. 
Cum  tibi   laudanti   credidit,   ipse  subit. 

(Ars  am.  I,  741-2.) 

Yerso  is  then  killed  by  Arnalte  in  a  duel,  Lucenda  withdrawing 
into  a  convent,  and  her  lover  into  solitude. 

While  the  little  tale  of  Arnalte  and  Lucenda  presents  mingled 
elements  of  the  aristocratic  and  the  bourgeois  novel,  the  story 
El  carcel  de  Amor92  again  returns  to  the  Spanish  feudal  tradition 
in  all  its  features ;  the  courtly  tone  of  the  sentimental  romance 
of  love  and  chivalry  prevails  throughout,  and  with  the  exception 
of  its  epistolary  form  there  is  nothing  to  remind  one  of  the 
Ovidian  type  which  owes  its  origin  to  Italy.  The  romance  is 
therefore  characteristic  of  the  fifteenth  century,  when  the  Span- 
ish novel  had  no  definite  mould  in  which  it  could  be  cast  and 
was  fluctuating  between  passing  traditions  and  the  newer,  foreign 
attempts  at  a  more  personal  form.  There  are,  moreover,  for  that 
age,  singularly  few  references  to  classical  or  mythological  char- 
acters in  this  tragic  love  story.     Only  some  arguments  "contra 

92  Cf.  Menendez  y  Pelayo,  Origenes,  op.  cit.,  I,  p.  cccxxi  ff. ;  the  edition 
of  Sevilla,  1492,  has  been  reprinted  in  the  Bioliotheca  hispanica  (Barce- 
lona y  Madrid,  1904). 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  119 

todos  los  que  dizen  mal  de  mugeres,"  are  backed  by  such  ex- 
amples93 as  the  fidelity  of  Penelope  and  other  classical,  Biblical 
and  historical  characters  which  were  the  stock  in  trade  of  all 
those  who  spoke  out  in  behalf  of  women  and  contributed  to  the 
literature  of  their  defence.94 

A  contemporary  work  of  the  Carcel  de  Amor,  a  savage,  quite 
anti-Ovidian  tract  which  might  have  been  called  the  "grammar 
of  scorn,"  or,  perhaps,  "why  not  to  love,"  is  the  famous  Repro- 
bation del  amor  mundano,  by  the  Archpriest  of  Talavera.95 
1  Nevertheless,  the  work  deserves  notice  on  account  of  the  author 's 
manifest  acquaintance  with  the  classics  and  with  Ovid.  A  very 
moral  idea  which  the  Archpriest  quotes  is,  without  his  saying  so, 
taken  from  the  Ars  amatoria:  "Dice  mas  Ouidio:  non  ay  menor 
trabajo  que  callar,  e  mayor  pena  que  mucho  fablar,  porque  trae 
consygo  el  mucho  errar. "    (p.  213.)     This  translates  II,  603-4: 

Exigua  est  virtus,  praestare  silentia  rebus: 
At  contra  gravis  est  culpa,  tacenda  loqui. 

Nor  can  the  influence  of  Ovid  upon  the  literature  which  decried 
women  be  left  out  of  account,  as  was  stated  in  a  previous  chapter. 
By  describing  them  all  as  easily  won,  as  more  passionate  than 
men,  giving  at  the  same  time  numerous  examples  of  the  misguided 
or  tragic  loves  of  women  and  their  ill  effects  on  men,  Ovid  fur- 
nished the  enemies  of  womankind  with  material  made  to  their 
hand.  Therefore  the  accusations  of  the  Archpriest,  that  women 
love  secrecy  in  their  intrigues,  (p.  56,)  that  the  motive  of  their 
love  is  selfish  gain  ("que  todas  las  mas  de  las  mugeres  son 
avariciosas, "  p.  57,)  that  they  can  be  bought  by  gifts,  (p.  112,) 
recall  various  lines  of  Ovid.  Nor  is  the  archpriest  unacquainted 
with  amatory  literature,  for  the  examples  which  he  gives  (p. 
70  ff.,  chap.  25,  Pt.  I)  of  the  wickedness  of  sensual  women  would 
be  a  credit  to  some  of  the  Italian  novellieri. 


as  El  Carcel  de  Amor,  op.  cit.,  p.  70. 

94  On  the  relation  of  Ovid  to  the  literature  on  good  and  evil  women 
cf.  above  p.  95;  also  notes  46  and  191. 

as  El  Arcipreste  de  Talavera  (CorvacJw  o  reprobacion  del  amor  mun- 
dano) por  el  Bachiller  Alonso  Martinez  de  Toledo.  Sociedad  de  Biblioftlos 
espaiioles   (Madrid,  1901). 


120  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

The  highest  form  of  Ovidian  realism  in  Spain  can  be  found 
in  a  work  which  is  the  lineal  descendant  of  Ovid's  erotic  writings 
and  is  therefore  related  to  the  tragic  stories  of  passion  treated 
above:  I  mean  the  great  Comedia  de  Calisto  y  Melibea?*  known 
as  the  Celestina.  The  peculiar  character  of  this  dramatic  dia- 
logue, its  striking  originality  as  well  as  its  indebtedness  to  numer- 
ous literary  influences  have  ben  studied  in  a  masterly  fashion 
by  the  late  Don  Marcelino  Menendez  y  Pelayo.  But  the  extent  to 
which  it  forms  a  link  in  the  chain  of  Ovidian  fiction  will  be 
clearer,  if  we  keep  in  mind,  first,  the  precepts  and  fiction  elements 
contained  in  Ovid's  works,  and  then,  especially,  their  repeated 
application  in  a  concrete  way  in  various  tales  during  the  early 
Renascence.  Only  the  influence  of  the  body  of  Ovidian  literature 
and  the  continuity  of  the  tradition  launched  by  Ovid  can  account 
for  some  of  the  most  prominent  characteristics  of  the  Celestina. 

The  general  plan  follows  the  precepts  of  Ovid,  the  intrigue 
being  extremely  simple :  having  met  a  woman,  how  to  win  her ; 
to  employ  in  the  process  the  servants  and  a  go-between,  who.  in 
the  Ovidian  tale,  had  taken  the  conventional  shape  of  an  old 
procuress,  this  together  with  the  tragic  close  is  the  bare  frame- 
work of  the  Celestina.  Only  the  genius  of  the  author  has  filled 
out  the  traditional  plot  with  a  wealth  of  human  experience  and 
philosophy  of  life,  with  a  subtile  analysis  of  sentiments  and 
emotions  in  a  language  so  alive,  that  it  easily  places  this  dram- 
atic love  story  in  the  forefront  of  its  type. 

The  prestige  of  Ovid  at  the  time  of  the  Renascence  was 
undoubtedly  evident  to  the  author  of  the  Celestina:  this  may  be 
inferred  from  the  following  passage:  Parmeno :  "Escucha. 
escucha,  Sempronio,  trobando  esta  nuestro  amo. ' '  Sempronio : 
"0  hideputa,  el  trobador!  El  gran  Antipater  Sidonio,  el  gran 
poeta  Ouidio,  los  quales  de  improuiso  se  les  venian  las  razones 
metrificadas  a  la  boca!"  (p.  104.)  This  refers,  as  has  been 
stated,  to  the  well  known  lines  of  Tristia,  IV,  x,  25-6.     Again. 


96  Comedia  de  Calisto  y  Melibea  (reprint  of  the  unique  copy  of  the 
edition  of  Burgos.  1499,  in  the  library  of  the  Hispanic  Society  of 
America).  Bibliotheca  hispanira  (Barcelona  y  Madrid,  1902);  Menendez  y 
Pelayo,  Origenes,  op.  cit..  Ill,  Introduction:  a  comprehensive  study  of 
Celestina  literature. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Eenascence  in  Spain  121 

Sempronio  tries  to  spur  on  his  diffident  master,  Calisto:  "Dixe 
que  tu  .  .  .  .  desesperas  de  alcancar  vna  muger ;  muchas  de  las 
quales  en  grandes  estados  constituydas  se  sometieron  a  los  pechos 
y  resollos  de  viles  azemileros,  y  otras  a  brutos  animales.  No  has 
leydo  de  Pasife  con  el  toro?  de  Minerua  con  el  can?"  (p.  7.)  In 
the  Ars  amatoria,  I,  269  ff.,  Ovid  says :  Prima  tuae  menti  veniat 
fiducia,  cunctas  posse  capi;  all  women  may  be  won,  indeed, 
passion  drives  some  to  criminal  extremes ;  and  then  follows  the 
tale  of  Pasiphae.  Sempronio  continues :  "lee  los  ystoriales, 
estudia  los  filosofos,  mira  los  poetas;  llenos  estan  los  libros  de 
sus  viles  y  malos  exemplos"  (i  e.  of  women) .  Later  Celestina  says 
that  this  love  of  one  sex  for  the  other  is  common  to  all:  "E  no 
solo  en  la  humana  especie,  mas  en  los  pesces,  en  las  bestias,  en 
las  aues,  en  las  reptilias,  e  en  lo  vegetatiuo  algunas  plantas  han 
este  respeto,"  etc.  (p.  23.)  This  idea,  as  it  occurs  in  the  Ars 
amatoria  (cf.  II,  481  ff.)  has  been  quoted  above  (p.  37),  but 
nowhere  is  its  resemblance  to  Ovid  greater  than  in  the  Celestina 
(cf.  also  p.  125  below,  where  Ovid  is  given  as  the  chief  source  of 
this  idea.) 

Calisto  gives  his  servant  the  following  instructions :  ' '  f az  de 
manera,  que  en  solo  verte  ella  a  ti,  juzgue  la  pena  que  a  mi 
queda,  y  fuego  que  me  atormenta.  .  .  .  Tu,  como  hombre  libre 
de  tal  passion,  hablarla  has  a  rienda  suelta."  In  Ovid  the  ser- 
vant is  to  intercede  for  the  lover: 

Turn  de  te  narret,  turn  persuadentia  verba 
Addat;    et  insano  iuret  amore  mori. 

(Ars  amat.  I,  371-2.) 

A  genuine  trait  of  one  of  Celestina 's  profession  is  her  state- 
ment that  persistance  and  money  overcome  all  resistance  on  the 
part  of  any  woman :  ' '  Todo  lo  puede  el  dinero  ....  no  ay  lugar 
tan  alto,  que  vn  asno  cargado  de  oro  no  le  suba  ....  que  avnque 
este  braua  Melibea.  no  es  esta,  si  a  Dios  ha  plazido,  la  primera  a 
quien  yo  he  hecho  perder  el  cacarear.  Coxquillosicas  son  todas 
....  si  de  noche  caminan,  nunca  querrian  que  amaneciesse: 
maldizen  los  gallos  porque  annuncian  el  dia,  y  el  relox  porque  da 


122  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

tan  apriessa."    (p.  42.)     Ovid  had  said  that  money  will  purchase 
the  fair,  an  idea  well  developed  in  Juan  Ruiz : 

Dummodo  sit  dives,  barbarus  ipse  placet. 
Aurea  nunc  vere  sunt  saecula:  plurimus  auro 
Venit  honos;   auro  conciliatur  amor. 

(Ars  amatoria,  II,  276-8.) 

The  regret  which  the  lovers  express  at  the  coming  of  the  dawn 
was  treated  in  connection  with  the  Alba  of  Provencal  poetry;  it 
survived  in  the  Ovidian  tale,  as  we  saw  in  the  Historia  de  duobus 
amantibus,  and  traces  of  it  may  be  found  in  erotic  fiction  through- 
out the  Eenascence. 

In  the  chapter  on  El  Libro  de  buen  amor  mention  was  made 
of  the  Ovidian  character  of  Trotaconventos,  the-  first  famous  go- 
between  of  Spanish  fiction ;  the  plot  of  the  early  humanistic  tales 
of  Italy  makes  such  a  personage  an  indispensible  element  of  the 
course  of  events.  In  the  character  of  Celestina  we  have  the  per- 
fected type  of  her  profession,  which  reflects  all  the  greater  honor 
upon  her  creator,  if  we  remember  that  her  literary  predecessors 
were  legion  and  go  back  in  an  unbroken  line  to  the  classics,  and 
chiefly  to  Ovid.  His  Dipsas  has  been  spoken  of  above,  and  the 
probable  source  of  her  inspiration  in  the  Acanthis  of  Propertius 
has  been  suggested.  But  the  latter  poet  was  not  studied  as  exten- 
sively in  the  schools  of  the  Renascence  as  Ovid,  he  is  seldom  men- 
tioned in  the  literature  of  the  time,  and  the  go-between  suggested 
in  precept  and  example  by  Ovid  was  sufficient  to  serve  subsequent 
ages  as  a  model.  Ovid's  ideas  thus  seem  peculiarly  appropriate 
in  Celestina 's  mouth.  I  am  well  aware  that  the  late  D.  Marcelino 
Menendez  y  Pelayo  believed,97  that  just  as  Trotaconventos  is  an 
independent  creation  of  the  Archpriest  of  Hita,  ("creation 
propia,")  so  the  character  of  Celestina  had  for  its  only  model 
that  of  Trotaconventos.  One  hesitates  to  disagree  with  so  great  an 
authority;  nevertheless,  I  feel  convinced  that  the  creators  of 
these  characters  not  only  had  read  Ovid  carefully,  but  recognized 
his  authority  in  principles  of  illicit  love.  Had  not  his  opponents 
in  the  Church  decried  his  works  and  branded  their  sinful  influ- 


07  Origenes,  III,  p.  lxii. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  123 

ence?  Was  he  not  repeatedly  stigmatized  as  a  corrupter  of 
morals  as  ' '  poeta  luxuriae,  turpitudinis  doctor, ' '  as  one  ' '  qui  non 
Urbem  sed  orbem  lascivis  implevit  amoribus,  sollicitatorem  puel- 
larum  et  impudicum  instruens  amatorem?"  How  could  his 
unsavory  reputation  as  well  as  his  striking  popularity  fail  to 
reach  the  authors  of  El  Libro  de  bucn  amor  and  of  the  Comedia 
de  Calisto  y  Melibea  f  This  does  not  mean  that  Trotaconventos 
and  Celestina  are  wholly  indebted  to  any  specific  character  of 
Ovid,  but  that  their  creation  was  influenced  by  his  teachings ; 
that  both  belong  to  a  family  which  goes  back  through  Ovidian 
literature  to  the  author  of  the  Amoves  and  the  Ars  amatoria. 
Without  including,  therefore,  such  theoretic  sources  as  the  plays 
of  Menander,  or  those  of  the  early  Roman  stage,  the  genealogy 
of  the  famous  go-between  Celestina  can  be  said  to  begin  with 
Ovid,  continuing  thence  through  mediaeval  productions  of  which 
the  Pamphilus  is  a  mediocre  example ;  then  to  Trotaconventos 
and  the  creations  of  the  humanists  who  absorbed  the  conception 
of  the  ancients  together  with  their  code  of  morals,  and  arriving 
finally  at  the  character  of  Celestina.  She  is  all  the  more  pure 
in  blood  and  type,  because  she  belongs  wholly  to  the  Latin  races. 

The  occasional  mythological  tales  referred  to,  namely,  Piramo 
y  Tisbe  (p.  3),  Narciso  (p.  59),  Orfeo  (p.  60),  are  told  in  the 
Metamorphoses  at  length.  Melibea,  too,  is  versed  in  the  classics: 
"Algunas  consolatorias  palabras  te  diria  antes  de  mi  agradable 
fin,  coligidas  y  sacadas  de  aquellos  antiguos  libros  que  tu  por  mas 
aclarar  mi  ingenio,  me  mandauas  leer. "  (p.  167.)  And  after  her 
death  her  father  apostrophises  Love,  and  recounts  the  number 
of  his  victims :  Paris,  Helen,  Ypermestra,  Egisto,  Sapho,  Ariadna, 
Leandro;  and  Biblical  characters,  (p.  173.)  In  most  of  these 
the  father  seems  to  have  taken  his  information  from  the  Heroides. 
Finally,  the  vocabulary  of  the  Celestina  is  that  of  tradition,  and 
includes  such  words  as  llama,  fuego,  mal,  salud,  remedio,  arder 
and  the  rest.98 


as  Menendez  y  Pelayo  points  out  two  reminiscences  in  the  Celestina 
from  Ovid:  1.  "make  use  of  your  youth"  (act  7  of  Celestina,  Ars.  amat., 
Ill,  59-62,  79-80),  p.  xcvi;  2.  the  idea  from  Pyramus  and  Thisbe  "let 
our  graves  be  one  and  the  same"  (act  20,  and  Met.  V,  55-165),  p.  ccxlix. 


124  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Ovidian  fiction,  whether  in  the  dramatic  form  of  the  Celes- 
tina  or  in  the  usual  narrative  style,  received  a  new  impetus 
through  the  far-reaching  prestige  of  that  unsurpassed  creation. 
Three  more  works  belonging  to  Celestina  literature  will  be  con- 
sidered. The  first  is  one  which  does  not  venture  to  depart  very 
far  from  the  plan  of  the  original,  and  is  entitled  Penitencia  de 
amor  by  Pedro  Manuel  de  Urrea."  How  well  within  the  lines 
drawn  by  the  precepts  of  Ovid  this  tale  is  may  be  seen  from  the 
argomento  (p.  4)  :  "Hubo  vn  cauallero  llamado  Darino,  hijo  de 
Galmano  y  de  Volisa,  el  qual  andando  vn  dia  solo  a  cauallo, 
passeando,  llego  a  vn  Castillo  y  casa  fuerte  en  muy  gentil  asen- 
tamiento  puesto.  Vio  a  la  ventana  a  Fynoya,  muy  gentil  dam  a, 
hija  de  Nertano  y  de  Solan  a,  donde  con  mucho  contentamiento 
y  turbacion  llego  a  hablar  con  ella,  y  acabadas  sus  razones  par- 
tiose  della  muy  catiuado  de  su  amor,  y  sin  reposo  boluiendo  a  su 
posada  procuro  con  dos  criados  de  los  suyos  de  quien  el  mas 
fiaua  (al  vno  llamauan  Renedo  y  al  otro  Angis)  para  que  con 
todas  sus  fuercas  y  mafias  hiziessen  que  Finoya  recebiesse  vna 
carta  de  Darino.  Fue  tal  la  diligencia  y  astucia  de  sus  criados, 
que  alcanco  Darino  al  principio  recebir  cartas  de  Finoya  y  al 
cabo  gozar  de  su  persona;  y  avnque  las  cosas  que  algun  tiempo 
duran  de  contino  son  sabidas  y  descubiertas,  esto  en  breue  tiempo 
fue  sabido;"  the  lovers  are  seized  and  imprisoned  for  life.  The 
precepts  of  the  Ars  amatoria,  letters,  messages,  the  inevitable 
go-between,  are  in  evidence  here,  and  the  author  even  seems  to 
have  been  influenced  by  Ovid  directly,  and  not  only  by  preceding 
erotic  fiction.  For  he  says  (p.  10)  :  "para  en  esto  conuienen 
diligencias  y  mafias,  que,  como  dize  Ouidio,  por  arte  de  los  remos 
y  velos  van  las  fustas  por  la  mar,  por  arte  son  ligeros  los  carros 
y  carretas,  y  por  arte  se  a  de  regir  el  amor,  que  por  muy  graue 
que  sea  verna  a  la  razon."  This  translates  some  of  the  opening 
lines  of  the  Ars  amatoria : 

Arte  citae  veloque  rates  remoque  moventur; 
Arte  leves  currus,  arte  regendus  amor. 

99  Penitencia  de  Amor,  by  Pedro  Manuel  de  Urrea,  edition  of  Burgos, 
1514,  reprinted  in  the  Bibliotheca  hispanica  (Barcelona  y  Madrid,  1902); 
ef.  also  Bevue  Hispanique,  1902,  pp.  200  ff.;  also  Menendez  y  Pelayo, 
Origenes,  III,  p.  clxiii  ff. 


1913 J  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  125 

A  work  with  extremely  original  passages,  with  a  language 
fresh  and  vigorous,  but  with  a  plot  which  is  a  very  close  imitation 
of  the  Historia  de  Calisto  y  Melibea,  is  the  Tragicomedia  de 
Lysandro  y  Roselia  llamada  Elicia  y  por  otro  nombre  quarta 
obra  y  tercera  Celestina,  printed  (conjecturally  at  Salamanca)  in 
15-42,  and  written  by  Sancho  de  Miinon,  a  native  of  that  city.100 
It  follows  its  model  in  spirit  and  presents  certain  scenes  with  a 
pagan  frankness,  and  while  they  are  neither  filthy  nor  wholly 
objectionable,  they  do  not  justify  the  air  of  innocence  with  which 
the  author  presents  the  work  to  the  reader:  "eomo  yo  los  aiios 
pasados  tuviese  vacacion  de  graves  y  penosos  estudios,  en  que  he 
gastado  los  tiempos  de  mi  mocedad,  buscando  alguna  recreacion 
de  los  trabajos  pasados,  compuse  esta  obrecilla  que  trata  de 
amores,  propia  materia  de  mancebos.  Cuando  digo  de  amores 
no  digo  cosa  torpe  ni  vergonzosa,  sino  la  mas  excelente  y  divina 
que  hay  en  la  naturaleza,  dejo  los  loores  que  del  amor  dice 
Platon  •  .  .  .  dejo  lo  de  Ovidio,  que  el  amor  tiene  dominio  uni- 
versal, y  reina  sobre  los  dioses  y  sobre  los  hombres,  y  dejo  otras 
infinitas  auctoridades  que  hablan  en  esta  materia,  porque  seria 
nunca  acabar. "  It  is  none  the  less  the  tone  of  the  Ovidian 
intrigue  which  is  most  prominent ;  and  Sancho  de  Munon  had 
Ovid  sufficiently  in  mind  to  put  into  the  mouth  of  Eubulo,  the 
aged  tutor  of  Lisandro,  "diez  remedios  singulares  para  que  se 
aparte  del  amor,"  most  of  which  are  from  the  Bemedia  amoris. 

The  steps  along  which  the  plot  proceeds  are  the  following: 
Lisandro  sees  Roselia  at  a  window,  and  promptly  falls  in  love. 
A  warning  against  the  dangers  of  love  and  a  recitation  of  the 
stereotyped  examples  of  tragic  lovers  taken  from  the  classics  fail 
to  impress  Lisandro,  and  he  sends  forth  his  servant  to  spy  out 
an  opportunity  to  see  and  speak  with  Roselia  (p.  13).  She  then 
has  an  interview  with  her  lover,  but  merely  rebukes  him  for  his 
advances  (p.  21).  This  is  as  it  should  be,  and  Lisandro  now 
appeals  to  a  professional  go-between  for  assistance  (p.  26).  The 
character   of  this   Celestina   is   now   splendidly   developed;   she 

too  Cf.  Tragicomedia  de  Lysandro  y  Boselia,  llamada  Elicia,  etc.,  in  vol. 
Ill  of  Coleccion  de  libros  espaiioles  raros  o  curiosos  (Madrid,  1872);  also 
Menendez  y  Pelayo,  Or'igenes,  III,  p.  ccxviii  ff. 


126  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

accepts  her  mission,  pretending  to  be  a  corredora  in  order  to  gain 
access  to  the  house  of  Roselia  ("trae  cosas  muy  galanes  y  ricas 
de  ropa  blanca")  (p.  71  ff.).  Knowing  her  business  well,  she 
reports  the  young  lover  to  be  dying  of  love  ("tu  eres  aquella  por 
quien  muere")  whereupon  Roselia  promptly  rages  against  the 
wicked  old  woman  (p.  92  ff.)     Ovid  had  said  in  his  precepts: 

Turn  de  te  narret,  turn  persuadentia  verba 
Addat  et  insano  iuret  amore  mori. 

Ut  fragilis  glaeies,  interit  ira  mora. 

Roselia  agrees  to  see  her  lover;  but  after  some  delay  the  go- 
between  is  again  obliged  to  report  to  her  the  amorous  passion  of 
Lisandro,  this  time  carrying  a  letter  to  expedite  matters  (p.  179). 
In  the  course  of  her  interview  this  Celestina  has  an  opportunity 
to  use  the  customary  argument  and  to  display  her  learning:  "a 
cada  paso  lo  vemos,  y  entre  manos  lo  traemos,  y  los  libros  de 
ello  estan  llenos,  que  doncellas  de  alta  guisa  y  de  real  nacimiento, 
hi jas  de  grandes  senores,  no  solo  amaron  sus  amigos  y  servidores, 
mas  muchas  de  ellas  los  siguieron  hasta  sus  tierras,"  etc.,  and 
then  follows  a  long  list  of  examples,  which  are  practically  all 
from  Ovid  (p.  181).  Roselia  now  gives  in  and  reads  Lisandro 's 
letter.  Her  servant  also  assists  the  lovers  (she  is  called  "en- 
cubridora  de  su  yerro")-  The  scene  in  which  she  yields  to 
Lisandro  has  nothing  original  in  it  and  recalls  especially  the 
Pamphilus  de  amore101  and  the  works  of  the  humanists,  such,  for 
example,  as  the  story  of  Euryalus  and  Lucretia  by  Pius  II.  It 
is  interesting,  too,  that  the  servant  comes  to  announce  the 
approach  of  day  (p.  214  ff).  In  a  subsequent  scene  the  two  are 
caught  and  murdered  by  a  brother  of  the  misguided  girl,  a  scene 
worthy  of  a  great  dramatic  playwright. 

From  what  has  been  said,  it  is  evident  that  Sancho  de  Murion 
was  well  acquainted  with  the  Metamorphoses,  though  we  may 
infer  from  the  story  which  he  tells  of  Acteon  (p.  xii  of  the 
prologo),  that  he  had  read  a  moralized  version  (cf.  above,  p.  13). 

ioi  The  division  into  five  acts  is  a  departure  from  the  plan  of  the 
first  Celestina  and  approaches  the  early  Renascence  plays  in  Latin. 


1913]    '  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spam  127 

But  he  also  knew  Ovid,  the  champion  of  love  ("deleite")  (p. 
220),  and  at  the  close  of  the  book,  a  friend  of  the  author  tries 
to  lead  us  to  believe  that  by  this  work  Ovid  has  been  beaten  on 
his  own  ground  (p.  298).  Most  striking  is  the  manner  in  which 
Munon  has  made  use  of  the  Remedia  amoris;  he  offers  ten  reme- 
dies, of  which  six  are  surely  from  Ovid:102  1.  "El  primero  es  la 
mudanza  del  lugar  donde  (el  amor)  te  prendio. "  Compare  vs. 
213-14: 

Tu  taraen  et  quamvis  firmis  retinebere  vinclis, 
I  procul  et  longas  carpere  perge  vias. 

2.  "El  segundo  es  evitar  y  huir  todas  aquellas  cosas  que  te  traen 
a  la  memoria  la  hermosura  de  la  que  amas."  This  is  from  vs. 
717  ff.: 

Scripta  cave  relegas  blandae  servata  puellae:  etc. 

Sic,  nisi  vitaris,  quicquid  renovabit  amorem, 
Flamma  redardescet,  etc. 

3.  "El  tercero  es  la  ocupacion  en  otros  exercicios,  que  con  nuevos 
cuidados  y  negocios  se  olvidan  los  rastros  de  la  antigua  pasion. 
.  •  .  .  exercita  las  armas,  ....  Vete  a  tus  gran j as  y  huertas  y 
labra  en  ellas, ' '  etc.    Here  the  author  imitates  vs.  136  ff . : 

Fac  monitis  fugias  otia  prima  meis. 

Da  vacuae  menti,  quo  teneatur,  opus. 

Vel  tu  sanguinei  iuvenilia  munera  Martis 
Suscipe:   deliciae  iam  tibi  terga  dabunt. 

Rura  quoque  oblectant  animos  studiumque  coleudi : 
Quaelibet  huic  curae  cedere   cura   potest. 

Colla  iube  domitos  oneri  supponere  tauros, 
Sauciet  ut  duram  vomer  aduncus  humum. 

Four  and  five  are  not  remedies,  but  moral  reasons  against  love: 
"pensar  ....  la  torpeza  de  este  pecado"  etc.,  and  "la  ver- 
giienza  y  empacho  de  las  gentas"  etc.     6.  The  reading  of  the 

102  Menendez  y  Pelayo,  Origenes,  III,  p.  ccxxii,  sees  more  "filosofia 
cristiana"  in  these  remedies  than  influence  of  Ovid,  with  which  one  can- 
not wholly  agree ;  cf .  also  the  dies  mandamientos  de  amor,  p.  65  above. 


128  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Bible  and  good  books.  7.  "El  septimo  es  el  contrapeso  de  las 
verdaderas  razones  a  las  falsas  opiniones  que  traen  y  mueven  a 
amar."  (Her  good  qualities  compel  you  to  love  her.  "A  todo 
esto  contrapone  sus  contrarios, "  etc.  Imagine  in  her  the  oppo- 
site qualities.)     Ovid  says  (299  ff.)  : 

Saepe   refer   tecum  sceleratae   facta  puellae 
Et  pone  ante  oculos  omnia  damna  tuos. 

Profuit  assidue  vitiis  insistere  amicae; 

Tunc  animo  signa,  quodcumque  in  corpore  mendum  est, 
Luminaque  in  vitiis  illius  usque  tene. 

8-  "El  octavo  es  el  libre  albedrio  y  poder  que  tienes  para  querer 
o  no  querer  dexarla  o  tomarla,  etc.  .  .  .  Dice  el  filosofo  que  el 
principio  de  las  cosas  es  la  parte  mas  fuerte,"  etc.  This  seems 
to  be  a  mixture  of  the  doctrine  of  Christianity  and  that  of  Ovid, 
who  implies  that  at  the  beginning  the  will  must  be  used  to  cure 
the  lover;  (81  ff.)  : 

Opprime,  dum  nova  sunt,  subiti  mala  semina  morbi; 

Principiis  obsta:    sero  medicina  paratur,  etc. 

9.  "El  nono  es  la  hartura,  que  no  hay  manjar,  .  .  .  .  ni  vicio 
que  no  harte. "    Compare  v.  539: 

Taedia  quaere:   mali  faciunt  et  taedia  finem. 

10.  El  decimo  y  ultimo  remedio  es  el  nuevo  amor;  Ovid  has: 
(441  ff.)  : 

Hortor  et,  ut  pariter  binas  habeatis  arnicas. 
Fortior  est,  plures  si  quis  habere  potest. 

Et  prior  est  cura  cura  sepulta  nova.1Q3 

The  language  of  love  is  strikingly  that  of  the  Ovidian  tradition. 
The  following  examples  will  suffice :  "la  cerugia  de  mi  mortal 
e  incurable  llaga  este  en  tus  manos  puesta,"  (p.  3)  ;  "el  ardiente 
fuego  que  mis  entraiias  abrasa,"  (p.  4)  ;  "ardo  en  fuego  de 
amor,"  (p.  6)  ;  "me  puedes  remediar  y  no  quieres."  "Buena 
i°s  Cf.  also  Ars  amat.  II,  358:  vanescitque  absens  et  novus  intrat  amor. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  129 

medicina  te  daba  si  la  conocieras, "  (p.  11)  ;  "arde  en  amores  de 
Roselia,  y  creemos  que  morira,  si  tu,  que  eres  unica  en  esto,  no 
le  remedias."  "A  unos  da  (Dios)  el  don  de  .  .  .  .  hacer  mila- 
gros,  a  mi  de  sanar  enfermos,"  etc.    (p.  47). 

In  many  ways  the  best  example  of  indebtedness  of  this  type 
of  fiction  to  the  tradition  originated  by  Ovid's  teachings  is  the 
'  Tragedia  Policiana  (1547),  10i  en  la  qual  se  tractan  los  muy 
desgraciados  amores  de  Policiano  e  Philomena,  executados  por 
inclustria  de  la  diabolica  vieja  Claudina,  madre  de  Parmeno  e 
maestra  de  Celestina. ' '  Although  the  author,  El  Bachiller  Sebas- 
tian Fernandez,  proves  himself  to  be  a  slavish  follower  of  the 
creator  of  the  first  Celestina,  he  is  nevertheless  moved  independ- 
ently to  imitate  Ovid,  whose  story  of  Pyramus  and  Thisbe  is  the 
model  of  his  tragedy ;  his  theme  is  the  death  of  the  lover  who  is 
torn  to  pieces  by  a  lion,  and  the  suicide  of  the  heroine  who  stabs 
herself  with  the  weapon  of  her  lover.  The  precepts  of  the  Ars 
"amatoria  underlie  this  Ovidian  intrigue,  and  they  appear  in  the 
following  order,  beginning  with  the  first  glimpse  of  the  girl 
accompanied  by  other  maids  (p.  3),  and  the  impression  she 
makes  on  Policiano.  A  servant  of  the  lover  then  hints  at  the 
efficacy  of  ' '  dineros  o  ruegos " ;  do  not  lose  courage,  even  Troy 
was  won  by  persistance  (p.  4).  Then  follow  citations  from  "las 
escripturas  antiguas,"  of  women  who  gave  in  to  love  ("cuyas 
honestidades  fueron  del  primero  o  segundo  tropel  batidas  y 
aportilladas").  The  next  traditional  step  is,  of  course,  a  letter: 
"el  primer  acometimiento  desta  batalla  deues  hazer  con  una 
carta  en  la  qual  procura  de  pintar  alguna  parte  de  tu  dolor"  (p. 
4) .  The  relation  between  the  servants  of  the  lovers  is  found  to 
be  of  assistance  (p.  5).  Again:  "Siluanico  me  dizen  que  tiene 
cierta  trabacuenta  con  una  mocuela  de  essa  dama ;  .  •  .  .  puede 
con  la  rapaza  negociar  quanto  quisiere"  (p.  8).  But  the  lover 
finds  the  chief  difficulty  in  gaining  access  to  the  girl  to  be  the 
watchfulness  of  the  father,  her  careful  seclusion,  etc.  (p.  10).  A 
go-between   is   now   resorted  to,   and   the   first   thing  that   she 


104  Reprinted   in    Origenes,    op.    cit.,    Ill,    pp.    1-59;    also    introduction, 
pp.  ccxliii  ff. 


130  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

demands  is  that  Policiano  open  wide  his  purse  (p.  10).  Siluan- 
ico  now  takes  the  first  letter  to  Philomena's  house,  and  tells 
Dorotea,  her  servant,  that  there  will  be  rewards  for  all  (p.  11). 
The  character  of  the  old  hag  is  that  of  her  class  (cf.  p.  18  ff.) 
Philomena  receives  the  letter,  shows  the  proper  anger  at  her 
lover's  suit,  but  nevertheless  wishes  to  keep  his  missive  (p.  20). 
Her  indignation  at  his  first  advances  is  poured  out  on  the  go- 
between  (p.  24).  The  first  news  which  the  hag,  Claudina,  now 
brings  back  to  the  lover  is  colored  most  unfavorably  by  her,  and 
makes  him  despair  (p.  27).    Ovid's  advice  had  been: 

....  mora  semper  amantes 

Incitat,  exiguum  si  modo  tempus  habet. 
Sed  neque  te  facilem  iuveni  promitte  roganti: 

Nee  tamen  ex  toto,  quod  petit  ille,  nega. 
Fac  timeat  speretque  simul;  etc.    (Ars  amatoria  III,  473  ff.) 

This  trick  of  the  go-between  recalls  a  similar  episode  in  the 
Pamphilus,  and  is  intended  to  spur  the  lover  on,  and  to  incite 
his  generosity  also;  he  orders  gifts  for  the  old  hag  (p.  27). 
Policiano  compares  Philomena  with  classical  heroines  (Helen, 
Medea,  Dido,  p.  40).  The  lovers  meet  secretly,  but  the  father 
as  well  as  men  in  the  garden  (hortolanos)  hear  the  nocturnal 
disturbance  and  suspect  that  some  intrigue  is  afoot  (p.  44  and 
52).  The  father  is  a  suspicious  and  watchful  character  (p.  49), 
but  we  learned  from  Ovid  that  all  such  guardians  may  be  easily 
circumvented.  He  notices  that  his  daughter  is  ' '  amiga  de  andar 
en  secretos  con  la  moca  e  muy  facil  de  visitar  la  puerta"  (p.  46). 
Philomena  again  meets  her  lover  and  expresses  her  regret  at  the 
coming  of  the  dawn :  ' '  dos  terribles  cuidados  enturbian  mi 
mezclado  gozo :  temor  que  auemos  de  ser  sentidos  e  que  el  alba 
ha  de  partir  esta  union  enamorada"  (p.  48).  And  at  the  end  of 
the  interview  she  exclaims  regretfully:  "0  hembras,  hem  bras, 
nunca  deuiades  de  nascer,  pues  soys  tan  mal  inclinadas  e  tan 
potentes  para  effectuar  vuestros  apassionados  desseos"  (p.  49). 
Solino  and  Salucio  who  overhear  the  amatory  dialogue  between 
Siluanico  and  Dorotea  (the  secondary  intrigue)  are  amused  at 
the  girl's  ' ' philosophia  de  amor."     "Si,  si,  en  las  escuelas  de 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  131 

Ouidio  deue  de  auer  estudiado  la  rapaza.  El  arte  de  bien  parlar 
la  deuen  auer  leydo"  (p.  49).  Even  without  this  hint  we  would 
be  inclined  to  apply  the  assertion  to  the  author  himself.  The 
tragic  death  of  both  lovers  is  taken  directly  from  Ovid.  {Meta- 
morphoses, IV,  105  ff.) 

Other  works  which  belong  to  literature  of  the  Celestina  type 
are  the  comedias :  Tesorina,  Vidriana,  Tidea,  Prodiga,  Hipolita, 
Seraphina,  Thebayda  and  many  others ;  they  practically  all  show 
marked  traces  of  the  Ovidian  tradition  in  intrigue  and  vocabu- 
lary, but  lack  of  space  and  the  risk  of  mere  repetition  prevents 
their  discussion  here.  In  them,  too,  may  be  found  the  interven- 
tion of  servants,  the  go-between,  false  friends,  amatory  episodes 
and  the  like. 


132  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 


4 
THE  0 VIDIAN  TALE  AND  CERVANTES 

We  are  now  well  within  the  sixteenth  century,  which  was  not 
yet  destined  to  witness  the  full  development  of  the  novela  de 
amoves.  That  wTas  left  to  the  genius  of  Cervantes.  Tradition 
was  still  too  strong  for  the  novelist  of  those  times;  such  stories 
as  the  Breve  Tractado  de  Grimalte  y  Gradissa,105  and  the  His- 
toria  de  Grisel  y  Mirabella,  by  Juan  de  Flores,  are  a  step  back- 
wards, a  return  to  the  courtly  and  impossible  romance  of  the 
outgoing  Middle  Ages :  they  seem  incongruous  in  an  epoch  which 
could  create  a  Celestina  and  a  Lazarillo  de  Tormes.  The  former 
is  an  attempted  continuation  of  the  Fiammetta,  but  of  little  value 
beyond  occasional  pages  which  interest  the  reader  because  of  the 
language ;  the  latter  is  based  entirely  upon  the  solution  of  a 
ridiculous  question,  which  is  in  keeping,  however,  with  that  love 
of  argumentation  and  sophistical  disputes  in  vogue  among  aris- 
tocratic circles  of  the  fourteenth  and  fifteenth  centuries.106  The 
question  to  be  solved  is :  "  quien  da  mas  occasion  de  peccar,  el 
hombre  a  la  muger,  o  la  muger  al  hombre?"  It  recurs  in  a 
revamped  version  of  the  story  entitled  Historia  de  Aurelio  y 
Isabella,107  and  the  close  is  worthy  of  the  tale:  the  man  who 
decried  the  fair  sex  and  the  love  of  woman  perishes,  miserably 
tortured  to  death  by  those  of  whom  he  had  spoken  ill.  This 
seems  to  be  nothing  but  a  colorless  imitation  of  the  death  of 
Orpheus  {Metamorphoses,  X,  79-82)  : 

....  omnemque  refugerat  Orpheus 
Femineam  venerem,  sen  quod  male  cesserat  illi, 
Sive  Mem  dederat.     Multas  tamen  ardor  habebat 
Iungere  se  vati;  multae  doluere  repulsae.  .  .  . 

ios  Origenes,  op.  cit.,  I,  cccxxxii. 

106  Cf.  the  thirteen  questions  in  Boccaccio's  Laberinto  de  amor  (I  cite 
a  Spanish  translation):  que  hizo  en  toscano  el  famoso  Juan  Bocacio: 
agora  nueuamente  traduzido  en  nuestra  lengua  castellana:  aiio  de  1546, 
[Sevilla]. 

107  I  have  before  me  a  bi-lingual  copy:  Historia  de  Aurelio  y  Isabela, 
la  Hija  del  Eey  de  Escocia,  mejor  corregida  que  antes,  puesta  en  Espanol 
y  Frances,  etc.   (Bruxelles,  1596). 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  133 

and  the  beginning  of  Book  XI,  where  his  death  is  narrated.  In- 
deed, the  story  was  presumably  intended  to  support  the  well- 
known  theories  of  love,  and  yet,  by  presenting  the  dangers  as 
well  as  the  justification  of  passion,  the  work  belongs  rather  to 
the  literary  warfare  between  the  supporters  and  the  slanderers 
of  womankind  than  to  the  history  of  the  novel. 

Such  stories,  too,  as  Juan  de  Segura's  Epistolario  o  Processo  de 
Cartas  de  Amoves  que  entre  dos  amantes  pasaron,108,  and  the 
Quexa  y  aviso  contra  amor  are  difficult  to  classify,  as  they  contain 
a  little  of  every  kind  of  fiction ;  but  references  to  Pyramus,  Dido, 
Clytie,  Scylla  and  the  like  in  the  first,  and  Philirides,  Phedra, 
Philes,  Iphis  and  Anaxarete,  Dido,  Thereo  y  Prone,  Philomena, 
Iris  and  others  in  the  second,  indicate  familiarity  with  the  works 
of  Ovid,  especially  with  the  Heroides,  which  the  cartas  imitate, 
and  the  Metamorphoses. 

Another  work  which  is  filled  with  references  to  classical  myth- 
ology and  which  shows  indebtedness  chiefly  to  Virgil  and  Ovid 
is  the  originally  Italian  Libro  del  Peregrino,  by  Jacopo  Caviceo. 
It  was  translated  into  Spanish  at  an  early  date  and  reprinted 
several  times  in  the  Peninsula.109  Menendez  y  Pelayo  eliminates 
it  from  the  catalogue  of  Spanish  nouelas  eroticas ;  it  seems,  how- 
ever, to  deserve  as  much  a  place  there  on  account  of  its  popu- 
larity as  the  Historia  de  dos  amantes,  by  Pius  II.  The  nature 
of  this  romance  is  somewhat  unusual,  however,  for  it  consists 
of  a  mixture  of  traditional  adventures  and  allegory  together 
with  certain  erotic  episodes  characteristic  of  Italian  realism.  The 
first  book  is  dedicated  to  intrigues,  meetings,  exchanges  of  let- 
ters and  other  novelistic  features  constituting  a  love  affair  which 
begins  unsuccessfully,  but  ends  in  the  usual  amatory  scene.     In 

108  The  copy  in  the  Biblioteca  naeional,  Madrid,  E.  2830,  contains 
both  stories  and  is  wrongly  marked:  Toledo  1553.  The  Quexa  y  Auiso  de 
vn  cauallero  llamado  Lusindaro  has  at  the  close:  impresso  en  Alcala  de 
Henares  etc.  aiio  1553,  and  this  seems  to  have  been  the  case  with  the 
Epistolario,  o  processo  de  Cartas  de  amores,  bound  with  it,  and  giving 
only  the  date  1553. 

ios  An  Italian  copy  in  Madrid,  Biblioteca  naeional:  Libro  del  Peregrino 
nuovamente  ristampato,  e  con  somma  diligenza  corretto  et  alia  sua 
pristina  integrita  ridotto  [Vinegia,  1538,  date  on  last  page],  by  Jacopo 
Caviceo.  An  edition  of  the  Spanish  version  (Sevilla,  1548)  is  in  the 
Bibliotheque  national,  Paris;  cf.  also  Origenes,  op.  cit.,  I,  p.  cccxl. 


134  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

all  of  this  the  influence  of  the  Ovidian  type  of  fiction  is  apparent. 

Thus,  as  romances,  these  books  are  failures  today,  nor  did 
they  long  survive  the  vogue  of  their  time  because  they  are  hazy 
and  confused  in  style  and  matter,  and  lack,  for  the  most  part,  the 
genuine  sentiment  of  love.  Only  certain  sentimental  features, 
notably  audacious  episodes,  appealed  to  the  taste  of  Spanish 
society.110 

The  influence  of  Ovid's  precepts  of  love  is  thus  a  part  of  the 
history  of  the  love  story  of  the  Renascence,  and  though  not 
always  evident  as  a  direct  force,  it  nevertheless  made  itself  felt 
in  literature  either  through  traditional  Ovidian  fiction,  or 
through  the  education  of  the  academic  curriculum  of  the  day. 
Nor  must  the  adverse  criticism  of  Ovid,  occasionally  to  be  found, 
be  considered  as  wholly  sincere,  for  writers  were  too  apt  to  admit 
the  perverseness  of  his  influence,  on  the  one  hand  (as  a  concession 
to  the  censors),  while  they  gladly  read  him  and  profited  by  his 
wealth  of  ideas,  on  the  other.  Even  unconsciously  there  enters 
into  the  makeup  of  all  fiction  the  prestige  of  a  literary  power  of 
past  ages :  as  the  Milesian  tales  were  known  to  Ovid  and  the 
youths  of  Rome,  and  even  more  than  Boccaccio  or  La  Fontaine 
are  read  among  us  today,  Ovid  was  a  familiar  name  to  the  writers 
of  the  fifteenth  and  sixteenth  centuries.  Amatory  traits  had 
been  inherited,  to  be  sure,  from  oriental  literature,  from  Greek 
and  Byzantine  romances,  from  the  French  and  Provencal,  from 
the  romances  of  chivalry;  but  it  remained  for  the  renewed  influ- 
ence of  Ovid  to  give  already  present  erotic  elements  a  more 
personal,  individual  bourgeois  stamp.  Through  the  precepts  and 
examples  of  the  Latin  poet  alone  originated  the  peculiar  Ovidian 
intrigue. 

no  The  Renascence  novels  which  imitate  the  Greek  and  Byzantine 
romances  get  farther  and  farther  away  from  the  Italian  bourgeois  type 
of  Ovidian  love  story.  The  features  of  intrigue  of  the  latter  which  dealt 
with  servants,  the  go-between,  messengers,  in  short,  with  the  lower  class 
of  the  people,  could  find  no  place  in  sixteenth  century  imitations  of  the 
Greek  romances.  The  bourgeois  element  which  is  present  in  such  novels 
as  Theagenes  and  Chariklea,  Klitophon  and  Leukippe,  reflects  Greek 
society  for  which  they  were  written;  it  was  of  course  not  understood  in 
its  original  form,  but  in  a  Renascence  garb  assumed  the  courtly  tone  and 
language  of  the  traditional  French.  Italian  and  Spanish  romances  of 
adventure. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  135 

Writers  of  the  fifteenth  and  sixteenth  centuries  were  well 
aware  of  the  prestige  of  Ovid111  as  doctor  amoris;  and  though 
his  authority  is  not  always  openly  acknowledged,  still  he  is  cited 
under  the  slightest  pretext,  as  we  have  seen,  even  where  a  book 
is  not  devoted  to  amorous  episodes  at  all.  Thus  Lazarillo  de 
T.ormes  (part  I,  tratado  iii)  says  of  his  master  (el  escudero),  that 
when  making  love  to  women  he  uttered  to  them  "mas  dulzuras 
que  Ovidio  escribio, ' '  presumably  a  reference  to  the  Ars  amatoria 
and  the  Amoves.  Mateo  Aleman,  at  the  very  beginning  of  his 
Guzman  de  Alfaraclie,  has  inserted  an  episode  as  a  part  of  Guz- 
man's autobiography,  which  has  all  the  elements  of  an  Ovidian 
tale.  It  deals  with  the  hero's  "confuso  nacimiento, "  and  may 
have  been  inspired  by  some  Italian  novella.  Guzman's  mother 
(that  is  to  be)  first  appears  in  church:  "era  gallarda,  grave, 
graciosa,  moza,  hermosa,  discreta  y  de  mucha  compostura. "  She 
was  accompanied  by  an  old  gentleman:  "por  entonces  no  hubo 
mas  de  que  se  supo  ser  prenda  de  aquel  caballero,  dama  suya, 
que  con  gran  recato  la  tenia  consigo."  Here  Guzman's  pros- 
pective  father  sees  her  and  desires  to  win  her :  ' '  Hizo  para  volver 
a  verla  muy  extraordinarias  diligencias;  pero  si  no  fue  algunas 
fiestas  en  misa,  jamas  pudo  de  otra  manera  en  muchos  dias.  La 
gotera  cava  la  piedra,  y  la  porfia  siempre  vence,  porque  la  con- 
tinuacion  en  las  cosas  las  dispone.  Tanto  cavo  con  la  imaginacion, 
que  hallo  traza  por  los  medios  de  una  buena  duena  de  tocas  largas 
reverendas,  que  suelen  ser  las  tales  ministros  de  Satanas,  con 
que  mina  y  postra  las  f uertes  torres  de  las  mas  castas  mugeres ; 
que  por  ellas  mejorarse  de  monjiles  y  mantos,  y  tener  en  sus 
cajas  otras  de  mermelada,  no  habra  traicion  que  no  intenten, 

m  Even  the  popular  distichs  attributed  to  Cato  mention  Ovid  as  an 
authority  in  love;  cf.  Disticha  de  moribus,  nomine  Catonis  inscripta,  cum 
Latina  et  Hispanica  interpretatione,  etc.  (Lugduni  sub  scuto  coloniensi, 
apud  I.  et  Fr.  Frellonios,  fratres,  1543) ;  first  we  are  told  that  Virgil  is 
the  authority  to  follow  in  agriculture;   then: 

Si  quid  amare  libet,  vel  discere  amare  legendo, 
Nasonem  petito.  [a  Ouidio:  sub.  de  Arte  amandi.] 
Inasmuch  as  this  little  book  was  used  in  school  to  teach  the  boys 
Latin,  its  precepts  were  known  to  most  writers  with  a  humanistic  educa- 
tion: Cervantes  knew  them  well;  for  example,  nemo  sine  crimine  vivit, 
p.  20,  is  found  in  El  licenciado  Vidriera;  cf.  also  prologo  to  Don  Quixote 
I;  although  the  distich  there  quoted  is  wrongly  attributed  to  this  book. 


136  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

fealdad  que  no  solieiten.  sangre  que  no  saquen,  castidad  que  no 
manchen,  limpieza  que  no  ensucien,  ni  maldad  con  que  no  sal- 
gan."  This  is  not  only  a  criticism  of  the  duena,  which  was  in 
vogue  at  the  time ;  it  is  another  expression  of  the  traditional 
arraignment  of  the  Celestina  type,  of  the  indispensible  go-between 
of  amatory  fiction,  and,  as  such,  a  literary  inheritance.  Guzman's 
father  employs  her  services:  "A  esta.  pues,  acariciandola  con 
palabras  y  regalandola  con  obras,  iba  y  venla  con  papeles;  .... 
y  por  haber  oido  decir  que  el  dinero  allana  las  mayores  diftcul- 
tades,  siempre  manifesto  su  fe  con  obras,"  etc.  Letters  and 
money  do  their  part;  moreover  the  second  lover  was  young,  while 
the  first  was  old.  and  the  contemplation  of  his  repulsive  traits 
made  him  less  attractive:  "Este  caballero  era  hombre  mayor, 
escupia,  tosia.  quejabase  de  piedra,  riiion  y  urina ;  muy  de 
ordinario  lo  habia  visto  en  la  cama  desnudo  a  su  lado,  no  le 
parecia  como  mi  padre,  de  aquel  talle  ni  brio,"  etc.  Ovid  says 
that  nothing  chills  love  sooner  than  such  sights : 

Tunc  etiam  iubeo  totas  aperire  fenestras, 
Turpiaque  admisso  membra  notare  die,  etc. 

Eemedia  amoris  (411-2.) 

Moreover,  women  "son  de  suyo  noveleras, "  and  the  conquest  of 
the  woman  in  this  case  'was  not  as  hard  as  that  of  Troy.'  As  a 
last  argument,  two  lovers  are  more  profitable  and  safer  than  one: 
"mejor  se  asegura  la  nave  sobre  dos  ferros  que  con  uno."  This 
is  Ovid's  figure  in  the  Remedia  amoris,  4-47:  non  satis  una  tenet 
ceratas  ancora  puppes-112 

Another  example  of  the  Ovidian  tale  inserted  in  the  Guzman 
de  Alfaraclie  is  that  of  the  second  part,  Book  II.  Chapter  IX. 
The  story  has  the  usual  amatory  features,  but  the  end  is  silly 
and  indicates  that  Aleman  wished  to  sugar  over  the  whole,  or  that 
he  was  not  skilled  in  that  kind  of  tale.  The  perfected  form  was 
to  come  from  the  greatest  of  his  contemporaries. 

It  will  round  off  this  study  of  the  indebtedness  of  the  erotic 
novel  to  the  tradition  of  Ovid's  teachings  to  consider  the  highest 


112  Guzman  de  Alfaraclie,  I,  bk.  i,  eh.  2;  for  other  Ovidian  features  cf. 
II,  bk.  1.  eh.  5. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  137 

mark  reached  by  the  Ovidian  tale  in  Spain  during  the  Renas- 
cence. I  have  called  the  Celestina  the  fullest  development  of 
Ovidian  realism ;  in  el  Celoso  Estremeiio,  by  Cervantes,  we  have 
a  consummate  embodiment  of  the  tradition  in  the  form  of  a 
novel.  Although  the  author  seems  to  be  slightly  indebted  to 
Italian  fiction113  as  far  as  the  tone  of  this  tale  is  concerned, 
nevertheless  its  enduring  charm  lies  in  the  originality  with  which 
he  has  presented  the  oft-treated  subject  of  an  old  man  married 
to  a  young  wife  whom  he  keeps  under  lock  and  key  through 
jealousy  and  mistrust.  The  extent  to  which  Ovid  has  developed 
this  novelistic  idea  has  been  touched  on  above  (p.  93). 

The  Archpriest  of  Talavera114  tells  a  story  which  Cervantes 
may  have  recalled  and  used  for  his  novela :  ' '  Otro  enxemplo 
quiero  contar :  como  un  cauallero  vie  jo  tomo  por  muger  una  moga, 
la  qual  mucho  amo;  tanto  que  cada  noche  cerraua  el  mismo  las 
puertas  de  su  casa  e  ponia  las  Haves  debaxo  de  su  almohada  de 
dormir.  Acaescio  que  este  cauallero,  por  ser  viejo,  no  contentaua 
a  su  muger,  asi  en  el  acto  carnal  como  en  las  cosas  que  le  men- 
guauan,  e  por  tanto,  la  muger  amaua  [a]  otro;  e  cada  noche 
tomaua  las  Haves  dormiendo  su  marido,  e  se  iva  a  su  enamorado. 
E  faziendolo  muchas  vezes,  acaescio  una  noche  que  se  desperto 
el  marido  e  fallola  menos;  e  fuese  a  la  puerta  e  fallola  abierta 
e  cerrola  por  dentro,  e  subio  a  los  corredores  altos  de  la  casa  e 
miro  pop  una  ventana  fasta  la  placa";  etc.  Then  follows  the 
well-known  trick  of  the  woman  who  pretends  to  have  jumped  into 
a  well.  A  related  variant  is  told  in  the  Decameron,11^  and  Cer- 
vantes could  have  seen  it  in  other  versions  or  collections  of  tales, 
but  nowhere  so  well  made  to  his  hand  as  here.  The  main  differ- 
ences between  this  bare  little  frame  of  a  story  and  the  finished 

us  But  the  story  is  on  the  whole  thoroughly  Spanish  or  Andalusian. 
It  must  be  remembered  that  Cervantes  was  really  the  first  to  write 
novelas  in  Spain;  that  such  collections  of  tales  as  had  appeared  pre- 
viously have  the  character  of  yarns  or  anecdotes,  and  although  they 
occasionally  recount  an  indecent  story  or  joke,  they  are  not  for  that 
reason  linked  in  any  way  to  amatory  fiction  of  the  Ovidian  type.  But 
this  is  another  reason  for  the  chasm  between  the  Spanish  short  story  of 
the  sixteenth  century  and  such  a  novela  as  el  Celoso  estremeiio. 

ii-t  El  Corvacho,  op.  cit.,  p.  113. 

us  Cf.  M.  Landau,  Die  Quellen  etc.,  op.  cit.,  pp.  79,  92,  262;  A.  C.  Lee, 
The  Decameron  (London,  David  Nutt,  1909) ;  seventh  day,  fourth  story. 


138  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

novela  of  el  Celoso  estremeno  are  the  purely  Ovidian  features 
which  are  added  in  the  latter.  A  young  man,  an  idler  of  a 
well-to-do  family,  who  is  spurred  on  by  curiosity  to  find  out  what 
the  old  man  is  guarding  so  religiously,  represents  the  Arch- 
priest's  enamorado.  He  zealously  haunts  the  house  of  the  young 
wife.    Ovid  has  said  (Amores  II,  19,  v.  3)  : 

Quod  licet,  ingratum  est;  quod  non  licet,  acrius  urit. 

and  (III,  4,  11)  : 

Desine,  crede  mihi,  vitia  irritare  vetando. 

The  old  man  was  playing  the  part  of  "el  Argos  de  lo  que  bien 
queria";  Ovid  says  in  the  same  elegy  that  even  Argus116  was 
many  times  deceived  by  love. 

The  young  man,  Loaysa,  having  become  acquainted  with  the 
details  of  the  marriage  and  with  the  old  man's  character,  begins 
his  campaign  to  seduce  the  young  wife.  The  servants  of  the 
house  become  useful  to  him,  notably  an  old  duenna  who  takes 
the  part  of  go-between,  and  with  their  assistance  he  resorts  to 
various  tricks  (as  do  all  the  heroes  of  this  type  of  tale)  to  get 
into  the  house  and  into  the  presence  of  the  young  woman.  While 
the  old  husband  is  asleep,  Loaysa,  the  wife,  and  the  attendants 
are  dancing  and  carousing;  suddenly  a  servant  runs  into  the 
room  crying  that  the  master  has  awakened  and  is  about  to  appear. 
All  scatter  and  hide  in  terror,  but  the  alarm  proves  to  be  a  false 
one.  Of  this  feature  of  the  Ovidian  intrigue  mention  was  made 
in  connection  with  the  story  of  Euryalus  and  Lucretia,  by  Pius 
II,  and  Ars  amatoria  (III,  606-9).  The  husband,  however,  pres- 
ently does  awaken :  ' '  Llegose  en  esto  el  dia,  y  cogio  a  los  nuevos 
adulteros  enlazados  en  la  red  de  sus  brazos,"  as  did  the  sun  in 
the  case  of  Venus  and  Mars.  (This  story,  adult erium  Veneris, 
is  told  at  .length  in  the  Ars  amatoria,  II,  561  ff.,  and  in  the 
Metamorphoses,  IV,  169  ff.).  The  shock  caused  by  his  wife's 
infidelity  is  too  much  for  his  years,  and  he  succumbs  under  the 

us  Cf.  below,  p.  182. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Benascence  in  Spain  139 

weight  of  his  disgrace.117  Cervantes  then  makes  the  moral  ex- 
tremely prominent:  of  what  avail  were  all  the  precautions  of 
the  aged  husband  against  the  shrewdness  and  scheming  of  an 
idle  and  vicious  young  man,  against  the  perversity  of  a  false 
duenna,  and  the  frivolity  of  a  young  woman?  Alas,  none,  for 
a  woman's  honor  is  soon  conquered. 

This,  then,  is  the  best  example  in  Cervantes  of  the  Ovidian 
type  of  novela,118  the  story  of  the  seduction  of  a  married  woman 
in  the  face  of  all  obstacles,  such  as  the  watchfulness  of  husband 
and  servants,  brought  to  a  successful  conclusion  with  the  assist- 
ance of  friends  and  a  go-between.  There  are  in  the  novelas  of 
Cervantes  various  other  examples  of  amatory  episodes,  such  as 
J  the  love  of  Alfonso  de  Este  and  Cornelia  in  la  Seiiora  Cornelia, 
in  which  the  heroine  makes  her  confession  thus:  "No  os  quiero 
dezir,  senores,  porque  seria  proceder  en  infmito,  los  terminos,  las 
trazas  y  los  modos  por  donde  el  duque  y  yo  vinimos  a  conseguir 
al  cabo  de  dos  anos  los  deseos  que  en  aquellas  bodas  fat  which 
they  had  seen  each  other  for  the  first  time]  nacieron;  porque  ni 
guardas,  ni  recatos,  ni  honrosas  amonestaciones,  ni  otra  humana 
diligencia  fue  bastante  para  estorbar  el  juntarnos, "  etc.  In  las 
dos  doncellas  where  the  girl  yields  to  her  lover  only  after  exact- 
ing a  promise  of  marriage,  her  story  is  as  follows:  "mi  suerte 
menguada  o  mi  mucha  demasia  me  ofrecio  a  los  ojos  un  hijo  de 
un  vecino  nuestro  mas  rico  que  mis  padres,  y  tan  noble  como 
ellos :  la  primera  vez  que  le  mire  no  senti  otra  cosa  que  fuese 
mas  de  una  complacencia  de  haberle  visto.  ...  El  me  vio  una  y 
muchas  veces  desde  una  ventana  que  frontero  de  otra  mia 
estaba ;  .  .  .  .  llegose  a  todo  esto  las  promesas,  los  juramentos, 

117  In  the  manuscript  version  which  had  been  preserved  by  Porras  de 
la  Camara,  the  wife's  infidelity  is  baldly  admitted;  in  his  own  edition  of 
the  Novelas  ejemplares  Cervantes  made  the  outcome  morally  more  accept- 
able, but  humanly  improbable,  enabling  Leonora  to  assert  to  her  dying 
husband:  "no  os  he  ofendido  sino  con  el  pensamiento. "  Cf.  Rodriguez 
Marin,  El  Loaysa  de  "El  Celoso  Extremeno"  (Sevilla,  1901);  litzmaurice- 
Kelly,  Exemplary  Novels,  2  vols.      (Glasgow,  1902),  I,  p.  xxxv. 

us  The  Archpriest  of  Talavera  tells  several  stories  of  deception:  how 
wives  kept  their  gallants  concealed,  how  they  devised  means  to  distract 
the  husband's  attention  temporarily  until  the  lover  has  escaped;  she  either 
held  before  her  husband  some  object,  or  blinds  him  by  throwing  some- 
thing into  his  face,  pp.  169  ff.;  cf.  also  El  vie  jo  celoso  by  Cervantes. 


140  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

las  lagrimas,  los  suspiros,  y  todo  aquello  que  a  mi  parecer  puede 
hacer  un  firme  amador,  ....  que  acabo  de  consumir  la  virtud 
que  hasta  entouces  aim  no  habia  sido  tocada;  y  finalmente,  con 
la  promesa  de  ser  mi  esposo  a  pesar  de  sus  padres,  ....  sin 
tener  otro  testigo  de  mi  desatino,  que  un  paje  de  Marco  Antonio." 
These  oaths  and  promises  are  elements  which  grew  to  be  extremely 
common  in  the  love  story  of  the  Renascence ;  they  were  taken  up 
by  the  drama  in  which  they  appear  with  great  frequency.  But 
these  idle  promises  of  marriage  are  for  the  most  part  an  expres- 
sion of  the  morals  of  the  sixteenth  century,  and  retain  very  little 
of  the  framework  outlined  by  the  precepts  of  Ovid.  The  Ars 
amatoria,  to  be  sure,  says  that  the  lover  may  make  promises  with 
no  intention  of  keeping  his  word : 

Promittas  faeito:   quid  enim  promittere  laedit? 
Pollicitis  dives  quilibet  esse  potest.     (1,443-4.) 

And  again : 

Nee  timide  promitte:    trahunt  promissa   puellas. 

Pollicito  testes  quoslibet  adde  deos. 
Jupiter  ex  alto  periuria  ridet  amantum.    (I,  631-3.) 

For,  at  lover's  perjuries  they  say  Jove  laughs  ;  a  citation  repeated 
by  many  writers  of  the  Renascence  (cf.  the  Comedia  de  Eufrosina, 
Origenes,  op.  tit.,  p.  100:  "Monsenor  Ouidio  dize  que  se  rie 
Jupiter  de  los  amantes  perjuros.") 

Most  of  the  features  of  an  Ovidian  intrigue  may  be  found  in 
the  story  of  Dorotea  in  the  first  part  of  Don  Quixote;  this  has  in 
reality  a  double  plot  in  which  Don  Fernando  plays  the  villainous 
part  of  deceiver  twice,  first  by  his  treachery  to  his  friend,  Car- 
denio,  whose  place  he  attempts  to  take  in  Luscinda's  affections, 
and,  second,  by  his  unfaithfulness  to  Dorotea.  Cardenio  makes 
his  first  mistake  by  confiding  in  a  friend,  which,  we  have  learned 
from  the  Ars  amatoria,  is  dangerous,  for  'that  friend  will  try  to 
replace  you  in  the  affections  of  the  girl.'  Cardenio  takes  Fer- 
nando to  his  home:  "venimos  a  mi  ciudad,  recibiole  mi  padre 
como  quien  era,  vi  yo  luego  a  Luscinda,  tornaron  a  vivir  mis 
deseos,  de  los  cuales  di  cuenta  por  mi  mal  a  Don  Fernando," 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Eenascence  in  Spain  141 

etc.  (chap.  xxiv).  In  the  meantime,  Dorotea,  the  simple  country 
girl,  had  yielded  to  Fernando 's  promises,  not  knowing  that  "el 
amor  en  los  mozos  por  la  mayor  parte  no  lo  es,  sino  apetito,  el 
eual  ....  tiene  por  ultimo  fin  el  deleite."  This  is  the  phil- 
osophy frequently  found  in  the  Celestina  literature,  and  is  excel- 
lently expressed  in  the  Tragicomedia  de  Lisandro  y  Roselia  (op. 
tit.,  p.  219)  :  "Agora  veo  ser  verdadera  sentencia  la  que  el 
Epicuro  y  Aristipo  profirieron,  que  el  sumo  bien  consiste  en  el 
deleite. ' '  Dorotea  tells  us  the  steps  by  which  Fernando  won  her 
as  follows:  (She  lives  in  seclusion,  devoted  to  her  domestic  tasks, 
reading  some  good  book  and  seeing  no  one  except  her  servants, 
for,  even  when  she  went  to  church  she  dared  not  raise  her  eyes 
from  the  ground ;  but  Fernando  has  seen  her,  and  to  possess  her 
goes  through  the  usual  steps;  Dorotea  continues)  :  "quiero  pasar 
en  silencio  las  diligencias  que  Don  Fernando  hizo  para  declararme 
su  voluntad :  soborno  toda  la  gente  de  mi  casa,  did  y  of recio 
dadivas  y  mercedes  a  mis  parientes,  los  dias  eran  todos  de  fiesta 
y  regocijo  en  mi  calle,  las  noches  no  dejaban  dormir  a  nadie  las 
musicas;  los  billetes,  que  sin  saber  como  a  mis  manos  venian,  eran 
infinitos,  llenos  de  enamoradas  razones  y  ofrecimientos,  con  menos 
letras  que  promesas  y  juramentos" ; — to  be  sure,  though  secretly 
pleased,  Dorotea  is  angered  by  these  advances :  ' '  todo  lo  cual,  no 
solo  no  me  ablandaba,  pero  me  endurecia  de  manera  como  si  fuera 
mi  mortal  enemigo,  y  que  todas  las  obras  que  para  reducirme  a 
su  voluntad  hacia,  las  hiciera  para  el  efecto  contrario ;  no  porque 
a  mi  me  pareciese  mal  la  gentileza  de  Don  Fernando,  ni  que 
tuviese  a  demasia  sus  solicitudes,  porque  me  daba  un  no  se  que 
de  contento  verme  tan  querida  y  estimada  de  un  tan  principal 
caballero,  y  no  me  pesaba  ver  en  sus  papeles  mis  alabanzas;  que 
en  esto,  por  feas  que  seamos  las  mujeres,  me  parece  a  mi  que 
siempre  nos  da  gusto  el  oir  que  nos  llaman  hermosas" ;  etc.  (chap, 
xxviii).  Fernando  at  last  manages  to  get  into  the  house  secretly, 
wins  Dorotea,  but  does  not  feel  obliged  to  keep  his  promises. 

The  tradition  of  'illness  through  love'  became  ineradicable 
in  the  novel  of  the  Renascence,  and  Cervantes  has  many  examples 
of  it.    In  the  story  of  Clara 's  adventures  with  the  mozo  de  mulas 


142  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

(Don  Quixote,  I,  xliii)  the  latter  "cayo  male-  de  pesadumbre." 
Teodosia,  in  Las  dos  doncellas  acts  precisely  like  one  of  the  aban- 
doned classical  heroines,  and  compares  herself  with  Dido.  In  la 
EspaTwla  inglesa  Ricaredo  falls  in  love  with  Isabella,  and  the 
phrases  used  are  such  as  encender  el  pecho,  ard'er,  dejarse  morir 
sin  intentar  algun  genero  de  remedio  a  su  dolencia,  la  enfermedad 
de  Ricaredo,  and  the  like.  In  the  Persiles  both  hero  and  heroine 
fall  ill  because  of  their  love  for  one  another-  In  the  sonnet 
which  Don  Quixote  finds  in  the  Sierra  Morena  (I,  xxiii)  the  last 
verses  run  as  follows  : 

Presto  habre  de  morir,  que  es  lo  mas  cierto, 
Que  al  mal  de  quien  la  causa  no  se  sabe 
Milagro   es   aeertar  la  medieina. 

And  in  the  letter  to  Dulcinea  (I,  xxv)  such  traces  of  the  classical 
tradition  as  had  affected  the  later  romances  of  chivalry  can  be 
found  in  the  words  which  Don  Quixote  repeats:  ferido,  llagado, 
salud,  cuita,  acorrer  (curar). 

There  is  so  little  evidence  that  Cervantes  was  a  latinist  that 
we  are  forced  to  conclude  that  he  knew  the  most  famous  of  the 
ancient  writers,  notably  the  poets  Virgil  and  Ovid,  chiefly 
through  translations.  He  may  have  read  some  of  the  principal 
classics  when  a  boy  at  school,  but  he  cannot  have  had  many 
opportunities  to  retain  or  revive  a  thorough  knowledge  of  the 
originals.  In  el  licenciado  Vidriera  Cervantes  quotes  in  the  Latin 
from  the  Ars  amatoria  III,  405,  Amoves  III,  9,  17,  and  the  Fasti 
VI,  5,  but  it  would  be  rash  to  conclude  from  this  that  he  knew 
Ovid  by  heart.  Citations  such  as  he  gives  could  easily  have 
been  gathered  from  contemporary  writers.  Nevertheless,  we  may 
perhaps  be  doing  him  an  injustice,  for  it  is  possible  that  he  knew 
Ovid  in  a  superficial  way  as  did  so  many  of  the  writers  of  his 
age.  His  acquaintance  with  the  Heroides  and  the  Metamorphoses 
will  be  treated  later;  his  relation,  however  indirect,  to  the  Ars 
amatoria  and  the  Amoves  is  of  interest  chiefly  in  so  far  as  he  has 
given  us  one  of  the  best  tales  of  that  type  which  owed  so  much 
originally  to  the  precepts  and  examples  of  Ovid. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Eenascence  in  Spain  143 

III 

The  Metamorphoses  Retold  in  Spanish 

l 

THE  TRANSLATIONS  OF  VIANA  AND  BUSTAMANTE 

The  mythological  tales  of  Ovid  have  always  been  popular. 
Even  in  the  teaching  of  the  Church  allegorical  interpretation  of 
the  Metamorphoses  was  countenanced  and  apparently  silenced 
most  opposition  to  the  latent  dangers  of  Ovid's  writings.  As 
early  as  Dante's  century  the  Latin  poet  was  in  the  possession  of 
all  who  came  into  touch  with  the  world  of  learning,  and  the  great 
Italian  poet,  who  considered  the  Metamorphoses  a  model  in  diction, 
did  not  hesitate  to  make  use  of  it  freely  in  a  Christian  poem.  In 
fact,  Dante's  spirit  was  manifestly  impelled  toward  the  study  of 
the  classics,  viewed,  however,  in  the  light  of  the  Middle  Ages ; 
and,  consequently,  the  traditional  manner  of  ascribing  hidden 
meanings  to  the  tales  of  Ovid  made  the  influence  of  an  allegorized 
version  of  the  Metamorphoses  on  the  author  of  the  Divine  Comedy 
a  natural  one.  "Quando  dice  Ovidio, "  we  find,  for  example, 
in  the  Convito,1™  "che  Orfeo  facea  colla  cetera  mansuete  le  fiere, 
e  gli  arbori  e  le  pietre  a  se  muovere:  che  vuol  dire,  che  '1  savio 
uomo  collo  strumento  della  sua  voce  fa  mansuescere  e  umiliare 
li  crudeli  cuori,  e  fa  muovere  alia  sua  volonta  coloro  che  non 
hanno  vita  di  scienza  e  d'  arte,"  etc.  Indeed,  a  genuine  under- 
standing of  classical  antiquity  was  still  reserved  for  a  distant 
future,  and  it  is  therefore  a  reasonable  conclusion  that  Dante 
appreciated  more  the  wise  sayings,  the  isolated  dicta  of  the 
ancient  poets,  than  their  verse  or  their  philosophy.120  In  the 
fourth  canto  of  the  Inferno   Ovid  is  mentioned  together  with 

us  II  Convito  di  Dante  Alighieri  e  le  Epistole,  2a  edizione  (Firenze, 
1862),  II,  cap.  1,  p.  107;  IV,  cap.  27. 

i2o  Cf.  Georg  Voigt:  Die  Wiederbelebung  des  classischen  Alterthums, 
oder  das  erste  Jakrhundert  des  Humanismus,  2  Bande,  3te  Auflage  (Ber- 
lin, 1893). 


144  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

Homer,  Lucan  and  Horace ;  and  in  De  vulgari  eloquentia121  Dante 
says:  "Et  fortassis  utilissimum  foret  ad  illam  habituandam 
regulates  vidisse  Poetas,  Virgilium  videlicet,  Ovidium  in  Meta- 
morphoseos,  Statium  atque  Lucanum,  nee  non  alios,  qui  usi  sunt 
altissimas  prosas,  ut  Tullium,  Livium,  Plinium,  Frontinum, 
Paulum  Orosinm.  et  multos  alios,  quos  arnica  solitudo  nos  visitare 
invitat."  Thus  Dante  seems  to  express  only  admiration  for 
Ovid  because,  perhaps,  he  had  nothing  but  the  Metamorphoses 
in  mind  and  intentionally  ignored  his  erotic  works. 

Petrarch,  on  the  other  hand,  is  loud  in  his  condemnation  of 
Ovid,  with  whose  character  and  writings  grave  men  could  not 
be  in  sympathy.  But  he,  in  contrast  with  Dante,  must  have  had 
chiefly  the  immoral  Ars  amatoria  and  the  Amoves  in  mind  when 
he  accuses  Ovid  "d'  animo  lascivo  e  inconstante  e  al  tutto  fem- 
inile, "  etc.  And  he  continues:  "Tacio  quel  suo  desiderio,  degno 
di  infamia  e  inconveniente  e  disonesto  eziandio  d'  esser  referito 
per  la  bocca  di  ciascuno  uomo  disperato  e  perduto  in  anima  e  in 
corpo,  il  quale  lui  non  si  vergogna  col  scrivere  di  far  pervenire 
alia  notizia  di  tutti  gli  secoli,  cioe  dove  essendo  risciolto  e  per- 
venuto  alia  fine  dello  atto  venereo,  egli  dice  se  essere  beato, 
avendo  ardire  di  lodare  la  morte  in  qual  stato,  dove  la  vita  e 
massimamente  disonesta  e  inutile."122    . 

It  is  thus  evident  that  in  spite  of  the  great  popularity  which 
Ovid  enjoyed,  opposition  to  his  influence  was  never  wholly 
silenced123  and  even  became  part  of  the  very  tradition  in  liter- 
ature which  gave  him  such  high  rank  among  classical  influences 
and  authorities. 


121  Le  opere  latine  di  Dante  Allighieri,  edited  bv  G.  Giuliani,  vol.  I 
(Firenze,  1878),  cf.  II,  p.  63. 

122  La  vita  solitaria  di  Francesco  Petrarca,  volgarizzamento  inedito 
del  secolo  XV  tratto  da  un  codice  dell'  Ambrosiana  pel  Dott.  Antonio 
Ceruti  (2  vols.,  Bologna,  1879);  libro  secondo,  p.  170.  Cf.  also  Opera 
latina  Petrarchae  (Venice,  1501),  folio:  de  vita  solitaria,  lib.  II,  tractatus 
sept.  cap.  II,  f.  47  verso:  De  antiquioribus  poetis  solitudinem  eligentibus 
cum  reprehensiva  exceptione  Ovidii  Nasonis  et  eorum  quos  vel  ipse  aut 
quern  illi  sequuntur.  f.  48:  Ille  mini  quidem  magni  vir  ingenii  videtur 
etc.  On  the  influence  of  Ovid,  cf.  Pierre  de  Nolhac,  Petrarque  et  I'Hu- 
manisme,  (Paris,  1907),  I,  p.  176  ff. 

i23  Vittorino  da  Feltre,  a  noted  humanist  and  teacher  of  the  early- 
fifteenth  century  calls  Ovid  worthy  of  admiration,  charming,  but  danger- 
ous.    Cf.  Voigt,  op.  cit.,  p.  541. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Eenascence  in  Spain  145 

Hitherto  the  channel  in  which  the  literary  influence  of  such 
works  as  the  Ars  amatoria,  the  Remedia  amoris,  and  the  Amoves 
was  handed  down  from  age  to  age  has  been  considered ;  the  Meta- 
morphoses will  now  occupy  our  attention,  the  extent  to  which 
that  work  was  known  to  the  general  reading  public  as  well  as 
to  writers  during  the  Renascence,  and  how,  more  than  any  other 
poem,  it  lent  itself  to  translation.  In  this  connection  we  shall 
also  see  how  a  popular  prose  version  of  the  Metamorphoses,  of 
the  first  half  of  the  sixteenth  century,  deserves  a  place  in  the 
history  of  Spanish  fiction  of  that  age.  In  the  Ars  amatoria  we 
had  to  deal  with  a  work  which  contributed  precepts  and  prin- 
ciples, and  a  stereotyped  vocabulary,  that  is,  at  best,  the  mere 
framework  of  fiction ;  we  saw  how,  by  building  upon  suggestions 
inspired  originally  by  Ovid's  erotic  works,  the  fifteenth  century 
invented  amatory  narratives  of  a  bourgeois  type  which  I  have 
characterized  as  0 vidian  tales.  In  the  Metamorphoses,  on  the 
other  hand,  could  be  found,  notably  after  the  poem  had  been 
translated  into  Spanish  prose,  a  series  of  complete  stories  of  love, 
passion  and  crime  in  little,  which,  told  after  the  style  and  manner 
of  the  Renascence,  became  stock  in  fiction. 

Those  who  read  the  literature  of  the  fifteenth  and  sixteenth 
centuries  will  be  struck  immediately  by  the  large  number  of  allu- 
sions to  heroes  and  heroines  of  classical  history  and  mythology; 
notably  works  of  fiction  seek  to  explain  their  episodes  or  to 
justify  the  sentiments  they  express  by  references  to  famous  heroes 
or  heroines  who  had  found  themselves  in  similar  circumstances. 
Inasmuch  as  Ovid  is  the  great  repository  of  classical  legends 
it  is  natural  that  indebtedness  to  him  in  this  matter  should  be 
especially  large.  And  among  his  works  the  Metamorphoses  take 
the  first  rank,  because  of  the  wealth  of  material  which  they  con- 
tain; there  legends  and  tales  are  generally  given  in  the  fullest 
form.  It  must  not  be  forgotten,  however,  that  the  Fasti  and  the 
Ars  amatoria  also  contain  many  stories,  the  former  explaining 
by  such  narratives  the  origin  of  certain  features  of  the  Roman 
calendar,  the  latter  emphasizing,  with  the  aid  of  fiction,  the 
author's  point,  or  driving  home,  by  some  pat  story,  the  precepts 


146  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

of  love  which  he  lays  down.  Thus  the  Ars  amatoria  recounts  in 
detail  the  story  of  Ariadne's  marriage  to  Dionysus,  the  rape  of 
the  Sabines,  Pasiphae's  love  for  the  bull  and  the  flight  of  Daed- 
alus and  Icarus,  beside  many  others.  The  story  of  the  conceal- 
ment of  Achilles,  disguised  as  a  maiden,  among  the  daughters  of 
Lycomedes  of  Scyros,  is  also  told  there,  but  with  the  added  touch 
so  characteristic  of  Ovid,  that  his  disguise  resulted  in  the  undoing 
of  Deidamia,  one  of  the  daughters.  This  feature  of  Renascence 
fiction,  the  disguise  of  a  man  as  a  maid,  is  extremely  common. 
(Cf.  above  p.  117).    It  will  appear  again  below  (p.  156). 

In  the  early  chapters  of  this  treatise  translations  and  imita- 
tions of  the  Metamorphoses,  and  the  influence  of  that  work  up 
to  the  beginnings  of  the  Renascence,  have  been  touched  upon. 
With  the  revival  of  learning  and  the  new  light  which  eager  study 
of  the  classics  threw  on  the  great  writers  of  antiquity,  the  popu- 
larity of  Ovid  increases ;  particularly  in  Spain  the  vogue  of  his 
mythological  poem  steadily  grows  in  the  course  of  the  fifteenth 
and  sixteenth  centuries.  The  evidence  of  this  is  frequent  men- 
tion of  the  Metamorphoses  by  writers  of  all  kinds,  as  well  as 
numerous  allusions  to  the  tales  therein  contained. 

As  this  chapter  purports  to  deal  only  with  popularized  forms 
of  the  Metamorphoses,  there  is  no  space  at  my  disposal  to  show 
how  many  Latin  editions  of  the  work  were  prepared  at  that  time, 
nor  how  the  schools  were  busied  with  commentaries  and  inter- 
pretations of  the  text.  But  the  pronounced  admiration  for  the 
great  teller  of  classical  stories  extends  far  beyond  the  academic 
atmosphere,  for,  with  the  aid  of  translations  in  prose  and  verse, 
the  author  of  the  Metamorphoses  became  known  among  all  readers 
of  fiction. 

While  discussing  the  Ars  amatoria  and  its  influence  on  the 
literature  of  the  early  Renascence,  but  little  was  said  about 
translations  of  that  work  owing  to  the  relative  lack  of  importance 
of  existing  versions  in  Spanish  and  Italian.  There  is  a  record 
of  three  translations124  of  the  Ars  amatoria,  and  three  of  the 
Bemedia  Amoris,  all  in  Italian,  before  the  Renascence,  and  of 


124  Cf.  Egidio  Bellorini,  Bibliographical  Appendix  I. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  147 

several  of  the  former  and  one  of  the  latter,  also  in  Italian,  of 
the  sixteenth  century,  but  none  of  these  seems  to  have  been 
widely  known.  I  have  found  no  record  of  any  edition  of  a 
Spanish  version  of  the  Ars  amatoria,  or  of  the  Amoves;  and  of 
the  Remedia  Amoris  only  a  part  seems  to  have  been  printed,  and 
that  as  late  as  the  seventeenth  century.  Titles  will  be  found  in 
the  Bibliographical  Appendix,  p.  234.  Unquestionably  this  fact 
may  be  accounted  for  by  the  fairly  strict  surveillance  which  the 
Inquisition  kept  over  books  translated  out  of  pagan  literature. 
Versions  of  the  erotic  works  of  Ovid  would  naturally  have  con- 
tained too  frank  a  display  of  pagan  morals ;  and  though  the  In- 
quisition certainly  nodded  at  times,  to  judge  by  the  indecent 
things  which  saw  the  light,  works  so  widely  known  as  the  Ars 
amatoria  and  the  Amoves  would  have  required  no  preliminary 
inspection  to  bring  about  their  condemnation  on  the  part  of  the 
supervisors  of  public  morals.  Be  that  as  it  may,  the  influence 
of  Ovid  on  amatory  fiction  was  transmitted  steadily  through  the 
centuries,  and  most  writers  of  the  Renascence  were  unquestion- 
ably acquainted  with  the  original  Latin  works.  Where  this  was 
not  the  case,  they  could  absorb  the  widespread  Ovidian  tradition 
or  read  some  of  his  poems,  at  least,  in  Spanish  or  Italian  transla- 
tions, and  profit  by  the  appended  commentaries. 

The  Metamorphoses  have  fared  very  well  in  Spanish,  in  which 
there  are  numerous  editions  of  five  or  six  translations  printed  in 
the  course  of  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries,  to  say 
nothing  of  a  rare  version  in  Catalan,  which  saw  the  light  at  Bar- 
celona as  early  as  1494. 125  All  of  these  translations  differ  greatly 
in  merit  and  vary  in  the  extent  of  their  fidelity  to  the  original. 
Of  several  of  them  little  need  be  said;  they  seem  to  have  been 
beneath  contemporary  mention  and  the  fate  of  the  translator  is 
satirically  revealed  by  Quevedo  in  his  Zahurdas  de  Pluton : 
"Pase  adelante  por  un  pasadizo  muy  escuro,  cuando  por  mi 
nombre  me  llamaron.  Volvi  a  la  voz  los  ojos,  casi  tan  medrosa 
como  ellos,  y  hablome  un  hombre,  que  por  las  tinieblas  no  pude 
divisar  mas  de  lo  que  la  llama  que  le  atormentaba  me  permitia. 

!25  Cf.  Bibliographical  Appendix  I  for  all  editions  mentioned. 


148  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

'jNo  me  conoce?  me  dijo.  a  .  .  .  .'  (ya  lo  iba  a  decir)  y  prosiguio 
tras  su  nombre  el  librero.  '  Pues  yo  soy. '  ;  Quien  tal  pensara ! ' 
..-.';  Que  quiere  !'  (me  dijo,  viendome  suspenso  tratar  conmigo 
estas  cosas)  'pues  es  tauta  mi  desgracia  que  todos  se  condenan 
por  las  malas  obras  que  han  hecbo,  y  yo  y  algunos  libreros  uos 
condenamos  por  las  obras  malas  que  hacen  los  otros.  y  por  lo  que 
bicimos  barato  de  los  libros  en  romance  y  traducidos  de  latin, 
sabiendo  ya  con  ellos  los  tontos  lo  que  encarecian  en  otros  tiempos 
los  sabios;  que  ya  basta  el  lacayo  latiniza,  y  hallaran  a  Horacio 
en  castellano  en  la  caballeriza. '  Mas  iba  a  decir,  sino  que  un 
demonio  le  comenzo  a  atormentar  con  bumazos  de  hojas  de  sus 
libros,  y  otro  a  leerle  algunos  dellos.  Yo,  que  vi  que  ya  no 
hablaba.  fuime  adelante,  diciendo  entre  mi:  "Si  hay  quien  se 
condena  por  obras  malas  ajenas,  £que  haran  los  que  las  hicieron 
propias?'  "  (edit.  Fernandez-Guerra  y  Orbe,  I,  p.  301,  col.  2.) 

Two  translations  of  tbe  Metamorphoses,  however,  must  be 
considered,  one,  tbe  most  important  of  all  by  far.  done  into  prose 
and  attributed  to  Jorge  de  Bustamante.  was  printed  for  the  first 
time  before  15-16 ;  the  other,  in  verse,  by  the  Licenciate  Pedro 
Sanchez  Viana,  was  printed  in  1589.  As  Bustamante 's  version 
demands  a  more  extended  examination,  I  shall  first  speak  of 
Viana 's  briefly.  His  translation,  which  has  been  characterized 
as  one  of  the  happiest  attempted  in  the  field  of  the  classics, 
is  of  interest  chiefly  as  a  kind  of  narrative  poem  which  attains 
great  charm  here  and  there  and  is  throughout  a  characteristic 
expression  of  the  times.  The  work  of  the  translator  is  justified 
in  the  traditional  way :  the  hidden  meanings  to  be  found  in  the 
Metamorphoses  are  well  worth  revealing  and  interpreting  in 
terms  of  Christian  doctrine.  "Ninguno  [the  prologo  tells  us] 
me  parece  de  los  que  yo  he  leydo  en  mis  boras  alcyonias,  se  puede 
igualar  al  excelente  Poeta  Ouidio.  speeialmente  en  las  trans- 
formaciones,  obra  digna  del  Autor  que  la  compuso.  En  la  qual 
ciertamente  con  profundidacl.  y  variedad  de  doctrina,  elegancia. 
copia,  y  alteza  de  estilo  se  pueden  no  solamente  ver  cosas  grandes. 
y  de  mucha  importancia  para  nuestra  vida:  pero  aim  debaxo  de 
marauillosa   mascara   y   cobertura   las   aclorna   de   manera.    que 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  149 

aliende  tie  vn  incomparable  fruto  que  se  saca  de  tanta  y  tan 
varia  lection,  es  increible  el  gusto  y  contentamiento  del  animo,  el 
deleyte  de  los  sentidos  que  vn  bien  acondicionado  ingenio 
recibira  de  semejante  poesia,"  etc.  Since  this  translation  was 
printed  in  only  one  edition,  as  far  as  I  am  aware,  and,  though 
not  rare,  is  not  generally  accessible  to  readers,  a  few  examples 
of  its  style  will  perhaps  show  why  it  does  not  deserve  to  be  wholly 
forgotten.  The  Golden  Age  of  Book  I,  89-112,  is  translated  as 
follows  (f.  2,  col.  2)  : 

La  primera  de  todas  se  ha  eriado 

La   edad   dorada,   santa,   que   guardaua 
Sin  ley  ni  rey  lo  justo  de  su  grado. 

La  pena  ausente,  el  miedo  ausente  estaua, 
El  pueblo   sin  edictos  se   regia, 

Que  sin  juez  seguro  se  hallaua; 
Nao  ni  galera  entonces  no  se  via 

Yr  por  el  mar,  ni  nadie  entre  mortales 
Otras   que   sus   riberas   conocia. 
No  auia  muros,  trompas,  ni  atabales, 
Ni  para  hazer  trompetas  se  doblauan 
Pesados  y   durissimos  metales. 
Ni  de  arneses,  o  espadas  se  adornauan 
Soldados,   que  sin  ellas   muy  seguras 
Las  gentes  en  blando  ocio  se  ocupauan. 
Y  sin  romperla,  las  entraiias  puras 
Arandose,   la  misma   tierra   daua 
Frutos,  y  frutas  dulces  y  maduras. 
Qualquier  eon  el  manjar  se  contentaua, 
Que  sin  se  cultiuar  podie  tenerse, 
Porque  la  misma  tierra  lo  criaua. 
Querien  con  Qarcjamoras  mantenerse, 
Con  siluestres  §erezas,  y  otras  tales, 
Que  sin  se  dessear  podian  hauerse. 
Sustentauanse  a  vezes  los  mortales 
Con  bellotas,  agenos  de  dolores, 
De  penas,  de  passiones,  y  de  males. 
Auia  verano  eterno,  cuyas  flores, 
Nascidas  sin   simiente  regalaua 
Fauonio,  con  sus  soplos  y  frescores. 
La  tierra  sin  ararse  se  mostraua 
De  mieses  canas  llena  de  contino, 
Aunque  nunca  jamas  se  barbechaua. 
De  Nectar  y  de  leche  rio  diuino 
Aqui  y  alii  corria,  distilaua 
La  roxa  y  dulce  miel  de  enzina  o  pino. 


150  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

A  noteworthy  passage  is  the  complaint  of  Narcissus,  III,  -437  ff. ; 
f.  28,  col.  1: 

Ni  cura  de  comer,  ni  desossiego 
Mirando  la  figura  engaiiadora, 

Y  assimismo  se  abrasa  con  su  fuego, 
Leuantase  vn  poquito,  y  a  la  nora 

A  las  cercanas  seluas  estendiendo 
Los  bragos,  gime,  y  sospirando  Uora, 
Publicando   su  pena  ansi   diziendo: 

Dezidme,  Seluas,  pues  que  soys  testigo 
De    tantos    amadores,    y    aureys    dado 
Lugar  idoneo,  y  apazible  abrigo, 
A  mas  de  vn  desseoso  enamorado. 
A  quien  fue  Amor  tan  crudo,  que  conmigo, 
Desuenturado,   misero,   cuytado 
En  padecer  tormentos,  compitiesse, 

Y  como  hago  yo,  se  deshiziesse? 

En  vuestra  larga  edad  aueys  sabido, 
Que  vuiesse  algun  amante  tan  estraiio, 
Que   con  tener  presente  lo   que  pido, 
No  puedo  remediar  mi  graue  daiio? 
A  quien  trato  jamas  ansi  Cupido? 
Quien  enredado  estuuo  en  tal  engafio? 
Que  estando  en  mi  poder  lo  que  yo  quiero 

Y  me  agrada  en  extremo,  peno  y  muero? 

Y  porque  mas  estrafiamente  pene, 
Estoruame  alcane,ar  mi  dulce  intento, 
No  el  ancho  mar,  ni  gran  distancia  tiene 
Ni  fuerte  muro,  o  monte  mi  contento, 
Vn  poco  de  agua  es,  la  que  detiene 
Los  dos,   que  no   gozemos  el  momento. 
Para  ambos  de  gran  gusto  a  lo  que  creo, 
Pues  se  parece  al  mio  su  desseo. 

Que  eon  semblantes  mansos  y  piadosos 
Azia  arriba  en  el  agua  va  a  besarme 
Las  vezes  que  con  besos  amorosos 
Quiero  en  las  claras  ondas  emplearme. 
Quan  poco  es  lo  que  impide  los  gustosos 
Contentos,  que  podrian  beatificarme? 
Quienquiera  que  tu  seas,  sal  a  fuera; 
Porque  me  engafias,  di,  de  tal  manera? 


1913J  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  151 

And  the  well-known  song  of  Polyphemus  to  Galatea,  XIII,  789 
ff.,  is  thus  rendered  (f.  149,  verso,  col.  1)  : 
Estauamos  debaxo  de  vna  pena 

Oyendole  cantar,   y   ansi   dezia: 

O  blanca  mas  que  flores  de  la  alhena, 

Florida  mas  que  el  prado,  Diosa  mia. 

Dereeha  mas  que  el  alamo,  y  senzeiia, 

Y  clara  mas  que  el  vidrio,  y  mas  que  el  dia 
Sereno,  y  mas  lasciua  que  el  cabrito, 
Quando   es   rescien   nascido,   ternezito. 

Mas  lisa  que  la  concha,  mas  graciosa 

Que  el  sol  de  hiuierno,  y  sombra  de  verano, 
Mas  noble  que  vn  manzano,  y  mas  hermosa 

Y  mas  de  ver  que  vn  Platano  lozano. 
Mas  luzia  que  la  elada,  y  mas  sabrosa 
Que  la  madura  vua,  y  a  la  mano 
Mas  blanda  que  la  pluma  regalada 

Del  bianco  cisne,  y  mas  que  la  quajada. 

Cada  aue  con  su  pluma  esta  galana; 
Natural  ornamento  suyo,  hermoso. 
Ni  menos  las  ouejas  con  su  lana, 

Y  ansi  esta  bien  al  hombre  ser  velloso. 
La  barua  del  varon  es  cosa  liana, 
Mostrar  ques  para  mucho,  y  belicoso. 
Vn  ojo  tengo  en  medio  de  la  f rente, 
Como  vn  escudo  grande,  y  excelente. 

El  sol  que  alumbra  tierra,  mar  y  cielo, 
Con   su   cara   hermosissima,   redonda, 
No  tiene  mas  de  vn  ojo,  y  en  el  suelo 
Que  cosa  puede  auer  que  se  le  esconda? 

Y  porque  mas  te  duelas  de  mi  duelo, 
Mi  padre  es  rey,  que  rige  la  mar  honda. 
Al  qual  te  doy  por  suegro  desde  luego, 
Si  quieres  admitir  mi  manso  ruego. 

Porque,    sefiora   mia,    te    recrea 

Amar  a  Acis,  siendo  yo  oluidado? 
Mas  avnque  mas  bizarro  este,  y  se  vea 
En  cuernos  de  la  Luna  leuantado, 

Y  avnque  a  ti  te  contente,  Galathea, 
(Que  es  lo  que  a  mi  me  tiene  atormentado) 
Si  yo  le  cojo,  aprendera  en  sus  males, 
Que  mis  fuercas,  y  cuerpo,  son  iguales. 


152  University  of  California  Puulications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Unfortunately  almost  two  thirds  of  this  bulky  work  of  Viana 
consists  of  comments,  learned  explanations  and  references  to 
authorities  under  the  separate  title  "  Anotaciones  sobre  los 
Quinze  Libros  de  las  Transformaciones  de  Ouidio :  con  la  mitho- 
logia  de  las  fabulas,  y  otras  cosas. "  The  interpretations  of  the 
myths  are  practically  worthless  from  a  scholarly  standpoint,  and 
merely  show  that  even  during  the  later  Renascence  students  of 
the  classics  could  not  slough  off  the  traditional  attitude  toward 
the  Metamorphoses.  The  myth  of  Narcissus  is  explained  as  fol- 
lows (f.  74  of  notes)  :  "La  historia  referida  ....  fue  de  los 
antiguos  escripta,  para  edificacion  nuestra,  y  darnos  a  entender, 
que  el  hombre  libidinoso,  impudente,  y  facinoroso,  trae  consigo, 
o  muy  cerca  de  si,  el  castigo  de  Dios,  como  el  cuerpo  anda 
acompanado  de  su  sombra, "  etc.  In  spite  of  the  superior  quali- 
ties of  Viana 's  translation,  his  work  has  slight  importance  in  a 
study  of  the  fiction  of  the  Renascence,  when  compared  with  that 
of  Bustamante.  Moreover,  the  large,  unwieldly  form  in  which  it 
was  printed  must  have  prevented  it  from  reaching  the  ordinary 
reader. 

Almost  fifty  years  before  Viana 's  translation  appeared,  a 
Spanish  prose  version  had  been  printed  of  which  Jorge  de  Busta- 
mante was  the  author.  No  translator  of  a  noted  classic  has  ever 
proceeded  in  a  freer  manner,  no  translation  has  ever  been  a 
greater  fraud  than  this,  if  judged  only  from  the  standpoint  of 
Ovid's  text;  no  version,  however,  could  better  reflect  the  spirit 
of  the  age  in  which  it  was  written.  At  times  it  is  nothing  but 
a  paraphrase,  a  naive  collection  of  tales  retold  from  Ovid,  but 
in  a  spirit  which  was  sure  to  win  the  approval  of  the  ordinary 
reader  of  fiction.  Bustamante  was  precisely  one  of  those  culprits 
who  courted  the  wrath  of  critics  like  Quevedo,  of  scholars  who 
either  condemned  all  translations  or,  at  least,  insisted  that  the 
original  be  accurately  rendered.  Perhaps  Bustamante  realized 
that  learned  men  would  never  let  his  Ovid  pass  without  condem- 
nation, and  this  fear  may  have  led  him  to  disclose  his  name 
only  in  some  verses  arranged  in  acrostic  form  at  the  beginning 
of  his  work.     In  many  editions  these  verses  were  not  included, 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  153 

and  the  translator's  name  was  soon  forgotten.  Nevertheless,  his 
version  of  the  Metamorphoses  was  undoubtedly  well  received ;  it 
must  have  enjoyed  and  maintained  genuine  popularity  to  judge 
only  from  the  large  number  of  editions  which  saw  the  light 
during  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries.  Today  it  is 
quite  unknown,  and,  perhaps,  never  read,  for  at  first  sight  one 
is  tempted  only  as  a  bibliophile  to  turn  a  few  of  its  quaint  pages. 
Yet  the  book  deserves  careful  reading  and  is  worthy  to  be  exam- 
ined in  detail  by  anyone  who  wishes  to  get  a  better  insight  into 
a  characteristic  manner  of  telling  tales  during  the  Spanish  Renas- 
cence. Felipe  Mey  has  told  us  in  the  prologo  al  lector  prefixed 
to  his  book  Del  Metamorfoseos  de  Ovidio :  "  es  cosa  cierta  que  la 
mayor  parte  de  la  gente  no  tiene  cuenta  con  si  esta  fielmente 
traduzido,  sino  en  si  le  da  gusto  el  libro  por  otras  circunstancias. ' ' 
Nothing  better  expresses  the  principle  of  many  Renascence  trans- 
lations. 

One  of  the  best  examples  of  Bustamante's  style  is  his  picture 
of  the  Golden  Age.  His  method  of  rendering  Ovid  can  be  well 
appreciated  when  compared  with  the  above  specimen  from  Viana 
or  with  other  translations  given  in  the  course  of  this  study.  The 
comparison  will  not  only  show  how  far  Bustamante  has  departed 
from  the  original  text,  but  will  also  give  us  a  picture  which  Cer- 
vantes may  have  had  in  mind  when  he  put  into  the  mouth  of  Don 
Quixote  the  well-known  passage  on  the  edad  dorada.  Bustamante 
translates : 

Por  este  poderoso  Dios  la  primera  edad  fue  luego  criada  de  natura 
de  oro.  En  aquel  tiempo  reynauan  en  la  tierra  verdad  y  justicia;  los 
hombres  andauan  seguros  por  todas  partes,  y  biuian  en  paz,  quietud,  y 
sosiego,  sin  saber  que  era  neeessidad  de  rey,  ni  de  alcalde,  alguazil,  escriuano, 
ni  verdugo,  ni  pregonero :  porque  todos  biuian  en  mucha  hermandad  tratando 
verdad  y  justicia. 

All  that  Ovid  had  said  was : 

Poena  metusque  aberant;  nee  verba  minacia  fixo 
Aere  legebantur:   nee  supplex  turba  timebant 
Judicis  ora  sui:   sed  erant  sine  judice  tuti. 

Manifestly  to  a  Spaniard  of  the  sixteenth  century  no  age  could 
be  golden  with  all  the  minions  of  the  law,  and  so  we  find  every 


154  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

one  of  them  mentioned,  from  king  to  executioner,  not  omitting 
the  intermediate  stages  of  the  criminal  process  which  included 
the  constable,  the  clerk  of  the  court  and  the  judge.  Bustamante 
continues : 

En  este  tiempo  los  hombres  no  sabian  que  cosa  era  torre  ni  castillo, 
lancja  ni  espada,  arnes,  nt  otras  cosas  desta  qualidad:  porque  biuian  sin 
auer  menester  defensores. 

Perhaps  the  translator's  Latin  gave  out  here,  for  he  does  not 
tell  us  that  men  did  not  yet  know  how  to  cut  down  the  pine  tree, 
how  to  make  boats  and  venture  upon  the  seas  (vs.  94-6).  But 
he  expanded,  as  we  saw,  the  following  verses  in  a  characteristic 
way: 

Nondum  praecipites  cingebant  oppida  fossae: 

Non  tuba  directi,  non  aeris  cornua  fiexi, 

Non  galeae,  non  ensis  erant.     Sine  militis  usu 

Mollia  securae  peragebant   otia   gentes. 

The  rest  of  the  picture  is  of  the  same  nature : 

La  tierra  que  no  era  rompida  ni  labrada  (porque  aun  no  sabian  que 
era  a§ada,  teja,  arado:  ni  otro  ningun  instrumento  de  hierro)  produzia  de 
si  misma,  no  siendo  apremiada  y  sin  fatiga  humana  todas  las  cosas  neces- 
sarias  a  la  vida  y  sustentacion  de  los  hombres:  los  quales  con  seluaticas 
substancias  de  los  cerezos,  mancjanos,  (jarqas,  moras  y  espinas,  de  cuya  pro- 
ducion,  y  de  vellotas,  que  del  enzina,  arbor  dedicado  a  Iupiter  cayan,  se 
contentauan.  En  este  tiempo  los  campos,  arboles  y  frutos  dellos  todos 
estauan  seguros,  porque  no  auia  quien  los  supiesse  robar  ni  despojar  de 
sus  frutas.  Siempre  era  vn  templado  y  fresco  verano  en  el  qual  vn  viento 
muy  delicado,  que  se  dize  Zephiro,  con  su  crescida  templanqa  produzia  por 
los  campos  gran  multitud  de  frescas  flores  y  rosas,  y  muy  mayor  abundancia 
de  crescidas  miesses,  las  quales  meneandose  con  este  ayre,  dandose  las 
blancas  aristas  vnas  con  otras  hazian  vn  suaue  bullicio,  y  vnas  ondas 
agraclables  a  los  ojos  de  quien  las  miraua,  sin  saber  que  cosa  era  inuierno. 
Los  rios  y  fuentes  corrian,  y  manauan  vino  y  leche,  y  los  arbores  distillauan 
de  si  el  acucar  y  la  miel.126 

Throughout  the  description  of  the  creation  the  Christian  Deity 
is  at  work :  ' '  hasta  que  Dios  en  mejor  natura  diuidio  su  confusion ' ' ; 
"tambien   mando   Dios   al   ayre";    "para   esto    formo    Dios   el 

126  Taken  from  Las  transformaciones  de  Ovidio  en  lengua  espanola, 
repartidas  en  quinze  libros,  con  las  Allegorias  al  fin  dellos,  y  sus  figiiras, 
para  provecho  de  los  Artifices,  etc.  (En  Anvers,  en  casa  de  Pedro  Bellero, 
1595),  f.  3;  with  numerous  cuts  to  illustrate  the  stories. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  155 

hombre, "  etc.  How  everything  genuinely  classic  is  given  in  terms 
of  sixteenth  century  idioms  and  terminology  is  apparent  at  once. 
Oppida  becomes  torre  and  Castillo;  tuba,  cornua,  galeae  and 
ensis  become  langa,  espada,  arnes  and,  especially,  otras  cosas  desta 
qualidad!  The  picture  of  the  field  of  grain  waving  in  the  breeze 
is  the  translator's  own,  and  where  Ovid  is  contented  with  /lores, 
the  Spanish  text  adds  rosas;  flumina  lactis  and  nectaris  become 
rios  y  fuentes  que  manauan  vino  y  leche,  and  simple  honey  be- 
comes agucar  and  miel.  The  resemblance  between  this  passage 
and  the  one  in  Cervantes  will  be  apparent  at  once,  although  the 
similarities  are  chiefly  such  as  they  have  in  common  with  most 
descriptions  of  the  Golden  Age.  For  the  imagery  became  con- 
ventional and  was  handed  down  through  the  ages  in  a  stereotyped 
form. 

Other  quaint  uses  are  the  words  ricos  hombres  (f.  183  verso, 
190  et  al.)  for  proceres  (bk.  XII,  155,  XIII,  126);  duena  (45 
verso),  for  which  there  is  nothing  in  Ovid;  duenas  (159  verso) 
for  matres  (X,  431,  et  al.)  ;  escudero  (137  verso),  applied  to  the 
attendant  of  Hercules  (IX,  155,  211)  ;  and  the  daughters  of 
Cinara  (81  verso,  Met.  VI,  99)  are  called  tan  hermosas  eomo 
virtuosas  donzellas  (natarum  membra  suarum). 

As  regards  the  tales  themselves,  with  very  few  exceptions 
the  translator  is  never  guided  wholly  by  the  original;  in  fact, 
one  verse  of  Ovid  may  inspire  him  to  tell  us  all  he  knows.  Many 
additions  appear  to  be  mere  incorporations  out  of  the  com- 
mentaries of  other  editions,  or  out  of  other  classical  sources. 
Thus,  in  the  sixth  book  of  the  Metamorphoses  Pallas  embroiders 
scenes  depicting  the  love  affairs  of  Jupiter  with  earthly  women, 
some  of  whom  are  dismissed  by  Ovid  with  a  single  verse  or  two. 
The  Spanish  text  enlarges  on  all  this  considerably  (81  verso,  ff.) 
The  whole  of  the  fifteenth  book  would  never  have  been  recognized 
by  Ovid;  notably  the  greater  part,  which  is  devoted  to  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  philosophy  of  Pythagoras,  is  paraphrased  in  an 
apologetic  kind  of  manner  with  the  delightful  marginal  note : 
"Errores  de  Pitagoras,  ignorante  philosopho  gentilico." 

Manifestly  a  translator  of  this  kind  will  depend  much  upon 


156  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

his  own  imagination  and  thus  give  us  a  book  which  is  conceived 
more  in  the  spirit  of  his  own  day  in  proportion  as  he  gets  farther 
away  from  the  original.  But  how  deeply  Bustamante  was  imbued 
with  the  spirit  of  contemporary  fiction  can  best  be  seen  from  the 
following  pages,  in  which  are  given  some  of  the  most  character- 
istic tales  of  his  book. 

Of  the  death  of  Daphnis  Ovid  says  (IV,  274-8)  : 

Poseitur  Alcithoe,   postquam   siluere  sorores: 
Quae  radio  stantis  percurrens  stamina  telae, 
Vulgatos  taceo,  dixit,  pastoris  amores 
Daphnidis  Aetnaei,  quern  Nymphae  pellicis  ira 
Contulit  in  saxum.     Tantus  dolor  urit  amantes. 

This  becomes  in  the  sixteenth  century  version : 

Y  assi  estando  cada  vna  dellas  pensatiuas,  Alcitoe,  la  menor  dellas,  que 
no  auia  contado  su  cuento,  acordo  de  contarle  por  mandado  de  las  otras: 
la  qual  no  dexando  de  hilar  comen§o  a  dezir:  Estad  atentas,  hermanas  mias, 
porque  yo  os  quiero  contar  vna  muy  hermosa  fabula:  y  mas  quiero  que  sea 
como  las  vuestras  tambien  de  amores,  y  estos  seran  los  de  Daphnes.  Este 
era  vn  pastor  que  habitaua  siempre  por  los  montes  y  seluas,  et  especialmente 
en  vna  que  se  dize  Yda:  porque  alii  tenia  vna  nympha  por  amiga.  y  despues 
la  dexo  y  se  enamoro  de  otra  muger.  La  nympha,  viendose  menospreciada 
del  Daphnes  por  otra  muger  mortal,  tomo  contra  el  tanta  yra,  que  le  conuer- 
tio  en  piedra  (f.  58). 

While  discussing  the  Ars  amatoria  mention  was  made  of  an 
episode  in  the  life  of  Achilles,  in  which  he  is  disguised  as  a  maid 
by  his  mother  and  concealed  among  the  daughters  of  Lycomedes, 
and  the  relation  of  this  story  to  similar  features  of  amatory  fic- 
tion was  suggested.127  In  Book  XIII  of  the  Metamorphoses  this 
episode  is  recalled  very  briefly  by  Ulysses,  who  tells  how  he  dis- 
covered Achilles  in  his  concealment.  When  compared  with  Busta- 
mante, we  see  that  nowhere  does  the  translation  seem  farther 
removed  from  the  classical  spirit  or  more  in  touch  with  the  fiction 
of  his  day: 

Tetis,  madre  de  Achilles,  que  era  diosa  de  la  mar,  sabiendo  por  su  arte 
como  su  hijo  auia  de  ser  muerto  a  hierro  en  las  Troyanas  guerras,  quando 

127  Cf.  also  the  tale  of  the  love  of  Pomona  and  Vertumnus,  bk.  XIV, 
609  ff.;  he  assumes  the  form  of  an  old  woman,  f.  213  verso;  also  the 
courtship  of  Leucothoe  by  Phoebus,  who  assumes  the  appearance  of  her 
mother,  bk.  IV,  190  ff.,  f.  57  in  Bustamante. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  157 

era  niiio,  le  metio  en  vn  monasterio,  en  vn  insula  llamada  Scyros,  sefio- 
reada  de  Lieomedes,  donde  seeretamente  fue  con  otras  monjas  en  habito 
de  niuger,  por  causa  que  no  fuesse  conoscido:  con  este  engaiio  Tetis 
vuiera  engafiado  a  Ayax  y  a  otros  muchos  con  tan  simulada  inuencion, 
mas  yo  [that  is,  Ulysses]  que  por  muchas  partes  por  vuestro  mandado 
le  fue  a  buscar,  Uegando  a  aquella  prouincia,  y  entrando  en  aquel  monas- 
terio, como  hazia  en  otros  muchos,  para  buscar  y  poder  hallar  el  escon- 
dido  mancebo,  entre  las  otras  ricas  joyas  y  mercaderias  que  donde  queria 
que  yua  para  descubrir  el  engafio  siempre  acostumbraua  lleuar,  para  tener 
ocasion  dentrar  en  todas  partes,  de  contino  lleuaua  armas  de  muchas 
suertes.  Y  assi  quando  vine  a  este  monasterio  donde  Achilles  estaua, 
luego  en  viendolas  el,  aunque  estaua  en  habito  de  muger,  metio  las  manos 
en  las  armas,  y  comen^o  a  esgremir  vna  lan§a:  a  la  hora  luego  entendi 
que  era  Achilles,  y  assi  luego  le  traxe  commigo  a  la  hueste.    (f.  191.) 

The  story  of  the  birth  of  Romulus  and  Remus,  of  which  there 
is  nothing  in  this  part  of  the  Metamorphoses,128  (Book  XIV),  is 
inserted  at  length  in  the  version  of  the  early  history  of  Rome  in 
the  following  naive  form : 

Numitor  fue  lanc,ado  del  reyno:  y  porque  del  no  quedasse  generacion, 
para  hazer  venganc,a  de  la  injuria  del  padre,  mato  vn  hijo  deste  Numitor 
llamado  Lauso,  niiio  de  gentil  presencia,  y  assi  mismo  vn  nietezico  que  tan 
solo  tenia,  y  aun  hasta  vna  hija  que  tenia  llamada  Ylia  hizo  tambien 
enserrar  muy  contra  la  voluntad  de  la  donzella,  no  sin  infinitas  lagrimas, 
en  vn  hermoso  y  recogido  monasterio  de  muy  enserradas  y  sanctas  virgenes: 
y  despues  de  auerla  metido  alii,  hizo  apregonar  que  si  alguna  de 
aquellas  monjas  se  hallasse  hablar  en  secreto  a  algun  hombre  sospechoso, 
por  ello  fuesse  luego  apedreada,  y  si  vuiesse  perdido  su  virginidad, 
en  tal  caso  fuesse  enterrada  viua,  y  esto  hizo  a  efecto  que  no  pudiesse 
nascer  de  Ylia  hijo  que  en  los  venideros  tiempos  pudiesse  hazer  vengan^a 
del  abuelo.  Porque  vn  arbol,  aunque  perqueno,  cresce,  y  nunca  falta  de 
quien  los  malos  se  teman  y  recelen  que  han  de  hazer  la  justa  vengancja: 
y  assi  auino  que  saliendo  esta  donzella  Ylia,  como  otras  vezes  acostum- 
braua ella  y  todas  las  otras  por  agua  a  vna  fuente  que  en  vna  floresta 
cerca  del  monasterio  estaua,  succedio  que  sentandose  cerca  del  agua,  fue 
adormida;  y  estando  enamorado  della  el  Dios  Mares  baxo  del  cielo,  y 
tuuo  accesso  con  ella:  y  finalmente,  dexandola  prenada  de  dos  hijos,  se 
torno  a  yr,  quedando  la  triste  donzella  prenada  y  muy  affligida.  Mas 
temiendo  el  graue  castigo  que  por  su  yerro  (si  se  supiesse)  le  auian  de 
dar,  encubriolo  lo  mejor  que  pudo  y  supo  con  mucha  prudencia,  hasta  el 
tiempo  del  parto,  en  el  qual  seeretamente  pariendo  dos  nifios,  luego  a  la 
hora  los  entrego  a  vn  donzel  suyo,  de  quien  ella  mucho  se  fiaua,  diziendole: 
Por  dios  te  ruego,   hermano,   con   todo   el   secreto   que   pudieres,   vayas  y 


128  it  is  found  in   the  Fasti  III,  beginning,   from  which   Bustamante 
could  have  taken  his  version,  adding  original  variations;  ef.  Fasti  IV,  55. 


158  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

eches  estos  niiios  en  el  rio.  El  donzel  los  tomo  con  este  proposito,  7  como 
llegasse  cerca  del  rio,  mirandolos  y  viendolos  ser  tan  hermosos,  auiendo 
compassion  dellos  mudo  el  proposito  que  lleuaua:  y  passando  de  la  otra 
parte  del  Tiber,  sinque  le  viesse  nadie  por  ser  ya  muy  tarde,  salido  del 
camino  en  vnas  escuras  y  espessas  seluas,  entre  muchas  ojas  y  ramos  los 
escondio,  y  se  vino.  Estos  niiios  despues  quedando  solos,  de  vna  ossa  fueron 
hallados,  y  de  la  leche  criados,  hasta  tanto  que  vinieron  a  ser  grandes  y 
fuertes  niancebos,  que  ya  andando  por  diuersas  partes  de  la  tierra,  la 
ventura  los  encontro  con  el  donzel  que  los  aula  librado  de  la  muerte,  el  qual 
por  orden  les  conto  toda  su  historia:  por  cuya  causa  ensalqandoseles  el 
cora§on  para  emprender  grandes  cosas,  y  cresciendoles  el  animo,  para 
conseguyr  el  efecto  dellas,  como  valerosos  hombres  luego  sacaron  la  madre 
del  monasterio,  y  despues  con  gran  multitud  de  gente  se  fueron  a  ayuntar 
con  Numitor,  y  todos  siendo  contra  Amulio,  lo  vencieron  y  despojaron 
del  reyno,  poniendo  en  su  lugar  con  grandes  fiestas  y  alegrias  a  Numitor. 
(f.  215,  verso.) 

This  tale  is  given  entire  to  show  in  how  many  ways  this  par- 
ticular translation  of  Ovid  is  related  to  contemporary  fiction.129 
The  tale  of  the  vestal  virgin  Ilia  (Rhea  Silvia)  recalls  the  numer- 
ous stories  of  nuns,  who,  abducted  from  their  convents,  are  cor- 
rupted by  worldly  lovers ;  by  a  few  changes,  the  actions  of  a  vestal 
virgin  are  related  by  Bustamante  in  terms  of  nuns  and  convents 
of  the  sixteenth  century.  Again,  the  motif  of  exposure  of  ille- 
gitimate children  reminds  us  of  the  birth  of  various  heroes  of 
the  romances  of  chivalry  :  of  Amadis,  exposed  in  a  box  and  thrown 
into  a  stream,  of  Esplandian,  who  is  carried  off  and  suckled  by 
a  lioness,  and  of  many  others;  where  Bustamante  found  his  she- 
bear  to  take  the  place  of  the  traditional  wolf,  he  does  not  say. 
The  motif  of  the  usurpation  of  the  throne  by  a  brother  of  the 
king  and  of  the  death  or  the  removal  of  the  rightful  heirs,  is  also 
well  known  in  the  fiction  of  every  country.  It  seems  justifiable, 
therefore,  to  believe  that  the  original  fountain-head  of  such 
romantic  elements  as  those  just  mentioned  can  very  frequently 
be  found  in  the  classics  or  in  translations  of  works  of  the  ancients. 
Bustamante,  no  doubt,  wished  to  offer  nothing  more  than  a  mere 
collection  of  readable  tales  which  he  compiled  only  for  the  gen- 


129  An  excellent  story  worthy  of  the  Renascence  is  that  of  the 
despised  mancebo  Ysis  y  la  donsella  Anaxarete,  bk.  XIV;  she,  por  su 
esquividad  y  crueldad  drives  her  lover  to  hang  himself  at  her  door.  f.  214 
verso. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  159 

eral  public.  For  this  reason  he  treated  the  text  as  he  pleased,  and 
his  arbitrary  procedure  may  be  pardoned.  But  considering  the 
naive  character  of  his  translation,  it  is  perhaps  more  objectionable 
that  he  should  generally  expand  unnecessarily  certain  salacious 
passages  of  his  book.  How  the  censors  reconciled  this  fact  with 
the  traditional,  allegorical  interpretation  of  the  Metamorphoses  is 
difficult  to  understand.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  Renascence  was 
no  longer  able  to  look  at  these  tales  as  symbolistic  of  some  moral 
truth ;  readers  looked  upon  them  as  entertaining  narratives,  and 
that  was  all. 

Another  complete  example  of  these  transformed,  classical 
myths  is  the  amusing  episode  in  the  love-affairs  of  Venus  and 
Mars,  namely,  the  deception  of  the  husband,  Vulcan,  a  tale  of 
which  all  ages  have  been  fond130  because  it  reflects  human  con- 
ditions : 

Quiero  os  dezir  otra  graciosa  historia.  Deueys  saber  que  este  Sol  que 
alumbra  todo  el  mundo  y  que  sin  pedir  lieencia  se  entra  donde  quiere, 
deseubrio  el  adulterio  que  hizo  Venus  con  Mares.  Dizen  que  como  este 
dios  lo  ve  todo  sinque  ninguna  cosa  se  le  esconda  vio  a  Mares  y  Venus 
muy  unidos  y  abra<jados  con  gran  deleyte  gozando  el  vno  del  otro, 
viendolo  turbado  y  auiendo  gran  pesar,  descubriolo  luego  a  Vulcano  su 
marido  della,  y  mostrole  la  cama  donde  estauan.  Este  Vulcano  que  era 
el  mejor  herrero  del  mundo,  Quando  oyo  estas  nueuas,  sintiolo  tanto  que 
quedo  sin  sentido:  y  con  la  gran  turbacion  y  pesar  se  le  cayeron  de  las 
manos  las  tenazas  y  el  martillo,  mas  despues  tornando  en  si  para  vengarse 
dellos  luego,  haze  vna  red  de  hierros  tan  delgada  y  sotil  que  apenas  con 
gran  difficultad  y  atencion  se  podia  ver,  en  que  los  pueda  prender  quando 
ellos  se  quisieren  ayuntar  otra  vez.  Quando  Vulcano  la  vuo  labrado, 
cerco  al  derredor  (con  gran  destreza  y  arte)  la  cama  con  ella,  y  alii 
estuuo  hasta  que  los  dos  cayeron  en  el  lazo.  Y  quando  Mares  y  Venus 
fueron  alii  ayuntados  y  presos  en  las  cadenas  y  redes,  abrio  las  puertas 
Vulcano,  y  llamo  a  los  dioses  para  que  dello  fuessen  testigos:  los  quales, 
quando  vinieron  y  los  hallaron  tan  fea  y  suziamente  abragados,  vuieron 
dello  gran  risa  (aunque  algunos  dellos  por  ventura  quisieran  ansi  estar 
ligados).  Este  hecho  fue  contado  y  nombrado  por  gran  tiempo  en  el 
cielo.  Venus  quando  supo  que  Febo  manifestara  su  maldad,  dixo:  Yo 
hare  que  aquel  que  deseubrio  este  hecho  y  fue  tan  villano,  arda  y  pene 
por  tal  amor  como  el  mio.  Por  esta  causa  despues  le  hizo  que  amasse 
vna  donzella  que  auia  nombre  de  Leucotoe;  el  amo  luego  aquesta  mas 
que  a  quantas  amigas  nunca  tuuo.     Tanto  la  amaua  que  perdio   el  seso 

130  The  myth  was  mentioned  in  the  Historia  de  dos  amantes  of  Pius 
II,  p.  2. 


160  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

y  la  calor,  y  no  alumbraua  al  mundo  tan  claro  como  solia.  Esta  donzella 
que  Febo  amaua  era  de  gran  linaje,  y  dezian  a  su  padre  Orchamo  y  a 
su  madre  Eurynorne;  por  esta  oluidaua  Febo  todas  las  otras  que  mucho 
amaua.  Quando  vino  la  noche,  Febo  se  mudo  en  forma  de  Eurynorne, 
madre  della,  y  entro  en  casa  de  Leucotoe,  y  hallola  hilando  con  otras 
donzellas,  y  comenco  luego  de  la  besar,  assi  como  si  fuesse  madre,  y 
dixo  a  las  donzellas:  Quitaos  de  aqui,  que  vn  gran  secreto  tengo  de 
hablar  con  mi  hija.  Ellas  se  fueron  de  alii  luego,  y  quedo  Febo  solo 
en  la  camara,  y  dixole:  Hermana,  yo  soy  aquel  que  alumbro  todo  el 
mundo,  y  escaliento  la  tierra,  y  veo  todas  las  cosas  que  son  en  ella: 
ruegote  que  me  ames.  Ella  auiendo  mieaO,  la  rueca  y  el  huso  se  le  cayeron 
de  las  manos  con  el  espanto.  Febo  no  quiso  tardar  en  hazer  lo  que  traya 
pensado,  assique  luego  se  torno  en  su  primera  figura,  y  mostrose  claro 
como  era  verdadero  Sol.  Con  la  gran  claridad  que  de  si  daua,  la  duefia 
espantose,  y  fue  luego  de  Febo  cansada  y  vencida,  y  vuo  de  consentir  a 
la  voluntad  de  Febo.  Clicie  que  era  amiga  de  Febo,  quando  supo  este 
hecho,  vuo  gran  embidia,  y  con  el  despecho  de  la  nueua  amiga  de  Febo 
fuelo  a  dezir  al  padre  de  Leucotoe.  El  padre,  quando  lo  supo,  con 
arrebatada  safia  soterrola  biua:  aunque  ella  harto  dezia  que  no  fuera 
hecho  aquel  yerro  con  voluntad,  mas  no  le  aprouechaua  nada.  El  padre, 
quando  la  vuo  soterrado,  echo  vn  gran  monton  de  tierra  sobre  ella. 
(Book  IV,  f.  56  ft) 

Occasionally  the  translation  enlarges  on  a  poetical  passage 
of  great  beauty;  a  good  example  is  the  description  of  Salmacis 
in  the  woods  (Book  IV)  : 

las  Nayades,  sus  companeras,  por  induzirla  a  que  con  ella  (Diana) 
anduuiesse,  muchas  vezes  la  contauan  los  passatiempos  y  descansados 
trabajos  de  la  monteria;  pero  por  todo  esto  Salmacis  no  mudaua  pro- 
posito,  y  siempre  se  andaua  circundando  con  lentos  y  espaciosos  passos  su 
estanque  o  represa,  vnas  vezes  peynando  sus  ruuios  y  dorados  cabellos 
con  muy  bianco  peyne  de  marfil,  otras  banando  su  alabastrino  cuerpo 
en  las  claras  y  limpias  aguas,  de  quien  otras  vezes  para  mirar  su  her- 
mosa  figura  en  la  sombra  se  aprouechaua  en  lugar  de  nitido  y  trans- 
parente  espejo.  Otras  se  recostaua  sobre  las  blancas  y  delicadas  hojas, 
flores  y  verdes  yeruas,  y  otras  de  aquella  diuersa  hermosura  de  flores  de 
mill  colores  pintadas,  hazia  lindas  guirnaldas,  con  que  coronaua  y  com- 
ponia  su  cabeza   (f.  59  verso.) 

This  passage  recalls  several  descriptions  in  the  charming  pas- 
toral romance  of  Daplinis  and  Chloe;  indeed,  the  Metamorphoses 
must  be  distinctly  included  among  the  classical  books  of  influence 
upon  Spanish  pastoral  novels,  and  some  of  the  episodes  in  the 
work  of  Ovid  rank  in  importance  with  the  Eclogues  of  Virgil. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  161 

Thus,  such  a  story  as  that  of  Polyphemus  and  Galatea  (Book 
XIII)  was  widely  known;  the  one-eyed  monster's  song  to  the 
shepherdess  (quoted  above  from  the  translation  of  Viana)  was 
several  times  imitated  by  poets  of  the  sixteenth  century.131  An 
example  of  the  similarity  in  the  tone  of  the  pastoral  romances  and 
Bustamante's  version  of  the  Metamorphoses  will  be  found  in  a 
passage  from  the  story  of  Marcela  in  Don  Quixote  (ch.  12  ff.,) 
and  one  from  Book  I  of  the  translation.  Marcela,  it  will  be 
recalled,  is  besieged  by  many  suitors,  notably  Grisostomo,  but 
preferring  a  life  of  chastity  to  that  of  matrimony  she  assumes 
the  garb  of  shepherdess  and  shuns  the  company  of  all  men.  The 
story  of  Daphne  and  Apollo  is  told  in  the  following  way : 

Esta  Daphne  era  tan  hermosa  como  Diana,  hermana  de  Febo,  mas 
no  teniendo  en  nada  los  ricos  atauios  ni  composturas,  la  toca  traya  mal- 
puesta,  y  reuelta  a  manera  de  serrana.  Muchos  la  pidieron  por  muger, 
mas  ella  los  tiene  a  todos  en  nada,  y  siempre  anda  por  los  monies,  y  no 
sabe  que  sea  amor,  ni  bodas  ni  matrimonios.  Mucbas  vezes  le  dixo  el 
padre:  Hija,  sabe  que  por  tu  extremada  hermosura  muchos  dessean  cassar 
contigo;  ruegote  que  lo  quieras  hazer,  porque  haziendolo  assi,  tu  tendras 
marido,  y  hijos,  y  daras  a  mi  nietos  y  yerno.  Esta,  aborresciendolo  todo, 
con  vn  semblante  amoroso  y  vergon^oso  respondio:  Senor,  sabe  cierto, 
que  si  tu  me  casas  y  sacas  de  entre  las  virginales  companias,  presto 
veras  mi  fin  postrimero.  Diziendo  abrazaua  al  padre,  y  besandole  con 
limpio  y  casto  amor,  le  importunaua,  diziendo:  Padre,  suplicote  tengas 
por  bien  dexarme  viuir  en  castidad.  Eesponde  el  padre:  Hija  mia,  mira 
lo  que  dizes,  que  essa'tu  hermosura  contradize  tu  voluntad,  y  manda 
que  en  todo  caso  te  casses  y  no  guardes  castidad.  Pero  al  fin,  viendo 
el  padre  que  no  la  podia  apartar  de  su  proposito,  dexola  de  importunar,  y 
ella  se  partio  del  con  los  cabellos  sueltos  por  las  espaldas,  y  se  fue  a 
sus  seluas. 

Apollo  who  has  fallen  in  love  with  Daphne  now  pursues  her 
while  she  flees  from  him ;  he  calls  to  her : 

Senora,  espera,  pues  ves  que  no  te  sigo  como  enemigo;  ay,  por  Dios, 
senora,  espera;  mira,  que  no  soy  algun  pastor,  ni  grossero  villano,  ni  cruel 
y  carnicero  lobo,  paraque  huyas  de  mi  amor  etc.  O  loca,  tu  no  sabes  de 
quien  huyes,  porque  si  tu  supiesses  quien  soy,  no  huirias  de  mi;  que  sabe, 
que  muchas  villas  y  castillos  tengo  debaxo  de  mi  dominio. 

If  space  permitted,  it  would  be  of  interest  to  see  how  many 
of  the  tales  to  which  there  is  frequent  allusion  in  fiction  and 
i3i  Cf.   last   chapter. 


162  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

poetry  have  assumed  a  genuine  Eenascence  garb  in  Bustamante 's 
version,  and,  as  such,  have  been  of  influence  on  contemporary 
literature.  Among  them  are  the  stories  of  Philemon  and  Baucis 
(f.  129  ff.),  Paris  and  Helen  (180),  the  labors  of  Hercules  (138 
verso  ff.),  Orpheus  and  Eurydice  (150  ff.),  Jason  and  Medea  (99 
verso  ff.),  Cephalus  and  Procris  (110  verso  ff.),  and  many  others. 
One  that  was  imitated  repeatedly  is  the  romance  of  Pyramus 
and  Thisbe,  which  can  be  read  entire  in  an  appendix,  since  it  is 
too  long  to  be  introduced  at  this  point.  But  a  final  word  seems 
in  place  on  the  tale  of  Cephalus  and  Procris  (Book  VII,  794  ff.) 
This  is  one  of  the  most  genuine  of  love  stories  which  has  not  failed 
to  move  writers  of  all  ages,  and  which  is  relatively  free  from 
those  elements  that  make  so  many  Ovidian  tales  offensive.  It 
has  appeared  several  times  in  a  dramatic  form.  Cervantes  tells 
us  in  Persiles  y  Sigismunda,  III,  2 : 

los  nuevos  peregrinos  ....  dieron  lugar  a  que  les  diesen  casi  el 
mas  honrado  en  la  fiesta,  que  fue  la  representaciou  de  la  fabula  de 
Cefalo  y  de  Procris,  cuando  ella  celosa  mas  de  lo  que  debia,  y  el  con 
menos  discurso  que  fuera  necesario,  disparo  el  dardo  que  a  ella  la  quito 
la  vida,  y  a  el  el  gusto  para  siempre;  el  verso  toco  los  extremos  de  bondad 
posibles,  como  compuesto,  segun  se  dijo,  por  Juan  de  Herrera  de  Gamboa, 
a  quien  por  mal  nombre  llamaron  el  Maganto,  cuyo  ingenio  toco  asi 
mismo  las  mas  altas  rayas  de  la  poetica  esfera.  (Edit.  Rivadeneyra,  p. 
626,  col.  2.) 

By  mere  coincidence  Cervantes  uses  a  phrase  to  be  found  in 
Bustamante 's  translation  of  this  very  story:  (Cefalo  says)  "Pro- 
cris ....  fue  mi  muger,  si  en  algun  tiempo  tu  la  has  oydo  nom- 
brar."  (f.  114.)  Compare  Don  Quixote,  I,  47:  "si  ya  le  oistes 
nombrar  en  algun  tiempo.132  The  phrase  sounds  much  like  a 
conventional  addition. 


132  Cf.  Studies  in  Cervantes,  III,  op.  cit.,  p.  545. 


1913]  ScheviU:  Ovid  and  the  Benascence  in  Spain  163 


GENERAL  FEATURES  OF  THE  VERSION  OF 
BUSTAMANTE 

The  Machinery  of  Adventure  of  Contemporary  Romances. 
The  Persiles  y  Sigismunda  of  Cervantes 

Bustamante's  pseudo-classical  translation  of  the  Metamor- 
phoses justified  itself,  as  did  most  versions  of  that  pagan  work, 
in  an  explanatory  and  apologetic  preface  which  attributed  hid- 
den moral  meanings  to  the  myths;  that  is,  the  latter  were  sup- 
posed to  teach  a  profound  truth  or  lesson  which  was  considered  a 
palliation  of  some  of  the  unveiled  indecency  of  certain  episodes. 
Naturally  this  conception  was  as  naive  as  the  serious  belief  that 
the  Metamorphoses  were  intended  to  be  a  thoroughly  moral  book. 
The  Prologo  says : 

Me  resta  ahora  dezir,  lo  que  tan  excelentes  filosophos  y  poetas  como 
Hesiodo,  Archilocho,  Horaeio,  Menandro,  Ysopo,  Lucio  Apuleyo,  Cebetes 
y  otros  diuersos  y  graues  autores  [this  is  certainly  a  congruous  assembly 
of  ancients],  y  especialmente  Ouidio  tuuieron  en  inuentar  estas  ficiones, 
que  no  fue  otro,  sino  solo  mostrar  a  los  hombres  muchos  auisos  y 
astucias,  para  mas  sabia  y  prudentemente  viuir.  Y  para  esto  compusieron 
tantas  obras  en  tan  diuersas  artes  y  estilos,  y  fingieron  sus  fabulas: 
cuyo  nombre  segun  dizen  Aphthonio  y  Hermogenes,  tomaron  los  poetas 
de  fando,  que  quiere  dezir  hablar,  diziendo  vn  razonamiento  no  de  cosas 
verdaderas,  mas  fingidas  e  inuentadas  por  estos  autores,  para  debaxo 
de  la  honesta  recreacion  de  tan  apazibles  cuentos,  contados  con  alguna 
similitud  de  verdad,  poder  induzir  los  curiosos  lectores  a  muchas  vezes 
leer  su  abscondida  moralidad  y  prouechosa  doctrina,  que  toda  va  fun- 
dada  en  manifestar  las  condiciones  y  costumbres  de  los  hombres,  a  los 
quales  conforme  a  sus  obras  apropian  a  diuersas  propiedades  y  naturaleza 
de  cosas,  sublimando  los  virtuosos  y  vituperando  los  viciosos,  etc. 

The  commentary  found  at  the  close  of  editions  printed  in  the 
latter  half  of  the  sixteenth  century  gives  in  detail  the  allegorical 
sense  of  the  chief  tales.  It  is  difficult  to  say  when  Bustamante's 
version  was  made  and  where  it  was  first  printed:  it  must  have 
been  written  considerably  before  1540  and  was  certainly  issued 


164  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

about  or  before  that  date.  As  regards  the  style,  the  earliest 
editions  show  many  old  traits  which  have  been  changed  in  the 
later  issues :  chief  among  them  are  examples  of  the  position  of 
pronouns,  such  as,  que  os  yo  quiera  contar,  etc.133  The  second 
edition  of  1546  and  those  of  1550  and  1551  point  to  one  which 
must  have  seen  the  light  several  years  earlier.  A  phrase  in  the 
prologo  seems  to  imply  that  it  was  penned  in  the  first  third  of 
the  sixteenth  century.  Pagan  gods  and  heathen  beliefs,  says  the 
author,  were  consumed  by  the  Divine  Word  of  the  Christian 
religion :  ' '  Como  desto  en  nuestros  tiempos  tenemos  experiencia 
en  las  Yndias  que  ahora  cada  dia  se  descubren,  que  en  entrando 
en  ellas  el  sanctissimo  sacramento,  desaparescieron  los  demonios ; 
luego  los  Yndios  conoscen  y  menosprecian  la  vanidad  de  sus 
ydolos,"  etc.  Another  clue  to  the  approximate  date  of  Busta- 
mante's  first  edition  may  be  found  in  the  epistle  dedicatory  to 
D.  Alonso  de  Acevedo,  Conde  de  Monterrey-  This  seems  to  be 
the  third  Count  of  that  title,  who  was  a  prominent  nobleman  at 
the  court  of  Charles  V.  He  served  the  Emperor  in  the  wars  in 
Italy. 

The  style  of  Bustamante  is  careless  at  times  to  an  extreme, 
and  his  indifference  to  syntax  and  precision  of  expression  is 
much  heightened  by  the  slovenly  work  of  the  printers.  But  his 
narrative  has  a  certain  charm,  and  its  pronounced  Renascence 
character  is  enhanced  greatly  by  engravings  which,  in  some  edi- 
tions, illustrate  the  tales.  As  a  whole,  the  work  forces  on  us  the 
conclusion  that  the  translator  used  his  Latin  original  rather 
sparingly  at  times,  that  he  may  have  helped  himself  by  reading 
some  French  or  Italian  versions,  or  that  he  may  have  found  some 
old  translation  in  manuscript,  which  he  used  as  a  basis  for  his 
own.  The  examination  of  this  question  has  no  bearing  on  Busta- 
mante's  relation  to  contemporary  fiction  and  must  be  left  for 
another  time. 

Coming  now  to  the  general  features  which  this  unprepossess- 
ing translation  of  Ovid  has  in  common  with  many  romances  of 

is.-?  Of.  Chenery,  "Object-Pronouns  in  dependent  Clauses:  a  Study  in  Old 
Spanish  Word-Order"  in  Publications  of  the  Modern,  Language  Association 
of  America,  Vol.  20,  No.  1,  new  series,  Vol.  13,  No.  1,  p.  1  ff. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Benascence  in  Spain  165 

the  Renascence,  we  find  that  nearly  all  have  a  conventional  char- 
acter. In  the  case  of  Virgil's  influence  on  the  literature  of  this 
epoch,  similarities  of  the  same  kind  have  already  been  considered. 
First  comes  the  part  played  by  an  old  woman  in  love  affairs, 
a  subject  touched  upon  above;  the  character  of  Celestina 
and  of  those  allied  with  her  profession  was  found  to  be  a  vital 
factor  in  all  the  tales  or  plays  in  which  she  takes  part.  The 
influence  in  this  connection  of  the  Avs  amatovia  and  of  the 
Amoves  has  been  discussed,  and  it  is  worth  noting  here  that  sev- 
eral characters  of  the  type  of  the  go-between  occur  in  stories  of 
the  Metamorphoses.  See  for  example  the  ama  of  Mirra  (f.  158)  ; 
Vertumnus,  disguised  as  an  old  woman  to  further  his  own  ends 
(f.  213  verso),  and  others  who  act  the  part  of  intermediary  in 
amatory  affairs ;  Juno  assumes  the  form  of  a  tricky  old  hag,  that 
of  the  ama  of  Semele,  in  order  to  deceive  the  latter  (aquella 
dueiia)  beloved  of  Jupiter.  But  many  of  the  old  women  of 
Renascence  fiction  embody  several  classical  influences :  that  of  the 
simple  go-between,  who  is  generally  not  versed  in  love-philtres 
and  the  like,  as  for  example,  the  old  woman  in  Pamphilus  de 
amove;  of  the  procuress  and  enchantress,  such  as  the  Dipsas, 
Amoves,  I,  8 ;  and  that  of  the  young  woman  gifted  in  magic  arts 
and  endowed  with  supernatural  power,  who  is  herself  in  love. 
Of  the  latter  type  Circe  and  Medea  are  the  best  examples.  To 
the  Renascence  these  women  were  simply  witches  in  league  with 
the  devil134  (see  Bustamante's  translation  of  Book  VII  for  Medea, 
and  XIV  for  Circe)  ;  even  the  Furies  are  called  "las  tres  deesas 
del  infierno"  (f.  63.)  Thus,  in  many  romances  of  the  sixteenth 
century  these  classical  influences  became  fused  in  the  word 
hechizeva,  who  can  prepare  potions,  change  her  own  form  as  well 
as  that  of  others,  and  who,  while  she  serves  in  the  love  affairs 
of  those  who  employ  her,  generally  has  some  base  passion  of  her 
own  to  gratify.  Excellent  examples  of  this  type  of  witch  can  be 
found  in  the  Pevsiles,  of  Cervantes,  in  the  first  book,  chapter  8, 


134  Cf.  Amezua  y  Mayo:  El  Casamiento  enganoso  y  el  Coloquio  de  los 
perms  (Cervantes),  edicion  critica  (Madrid,  1912);  cf.  VI  of  Introduction 
on  brujas. 


166  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

in  which  Rutilio  tells  how  he  was  carried  through  the  air  by  a 
hechizera,  who  subsequently  changed  into  a  wolf;135  and  in  the 
second  book,  chapter  9  especially,  in  which  Zenotia  describes  her 
kind  at  length  as  encantadoras  y  magas,  rather  than  heckizeras, 
and  gives  a  sketch  of  the  profession  which  they  follow  in  spite 
of  the  Inquisition  ("huyendo  de  la  vigilancia  que  tienen  los 
mastines  veladores,  que  en  aquel  reino  (de  Granada)  tienen  del 
catolico  rebaho. ")  No  doubt  there  were  at  that  time  many  con- 
crete examples  of  cases  of  poor  old  hags,  who,  misguided  in  some 
way,  either  themselves  believed  or  led  others  to  believe  that  they 
were  witches  (heehizeras)  ;  nevertheless,  one  cannot  fail  to  see 
that  the  peculiar  traits  of  these  women  drawn  by  Cervantes  are 
in  part  patterned  after  classical  models  (encantadoras  y  magas) 
found  in  Virgil  and  Ovid.  Notably  in  the  Metamorphoses  may 
be  found  the  prototype  of  those  females  who,  to  use  the  words 
of  Cervantes,  could  darken  the  sun  and  shake  the  earth,  who 
understood  the  movement  of  the  stars  or  the  secrets  of  certain 
herbs,  plants  or  stones ;  or  who,  when  endowed  only  with  inferior 
power,  use  pointless  needles  or  headless  pins,  or  cut  certain  hairs 
of  animals  at  specific  phases  of  the  moon.  In  many  of  these 
details  the  Renascence  took  up  an  old  tradition  and  developed 
an  element  of  fiction  which  was  greatly  indebted  to  characters  of 
common  occurrence  in  the  classics ;  and  while  the  latter  were  not 
invented  by  Ovid,  they  were  presented  with  greater  frequency  by 
him  than  by  any  other  prominent  poet  of  antiquity. 

Another  essential  invites  comparison :  the  character  of  Ovid 's 
heroines  was  bound  to  strengthen  the  sentimental  note  which 
dominates  in  the  drawing  of  so  many  women  in  fiction  of  the 
fifteenth  and  sixteenth  centuries.  The  supposed  indicters  of  the 
Epistles  (Heroides) ,  and  the  innumerable  deceived  and  unhappy 
women  depicted  in  the  Metamorphoses  were  ever  present  in  the 
minds  of  sixteenth  century  writers  of  romance.  It  was,  there- 
fore, natural  for  Bustamante  to  strike  the  tone  of  his  age  to 


135  Cf.  Bustamante 's  version  of  the  story  of  Licaon  mudado  en  lobo, 
f.  7,  (bk  I) ;  and  the  tale  of  the  fierce,  man-eating  wolf  who  is  turned 
to  stone,  f.  172  verso,  (bk.  XI);  the  tone  here  is  wholly  that  of  sixteenth 
century  fiction. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  167 

excess  whenever  he  had  occasion  to  translate  some  passage  of 
grief,  such  as  the  lamentations  of  a  forlorn  maiden,  or  of  a  deso- 
late wife  or  mother.  Herein  the  influence  of  the  Heroides,  that 
of  the  story  of  Dido  so  beautifully  told  by  Virgil  in  the  Aeneid, 
and  that  of  the  Metamorphoses  are  hard  to  distinguish.  Be  this 
as  it  may,  sentimentalism  had  become  an  inseparable  trait  of  most 
romances  in  the  fifteenth  century,  and  therefore  coincides  with 
the  renewed  study  of  the  classics.  In  this  regard  the  probable 
influence  of  the  Greek  romances  on  the  sentimental  heroines  of 
Eenascence  fiction  has  already  been  suggested.  Noteworthy  ex- 
amples of  this  manner  can  be  found  in  the  Spanish  Ovid  of  Busta- 
mante;  among  them  are  the  lamentations  of  Daphne  to  her 
father,136  of  Hecuba  bewailing  the  death  of  her  daughter,137  and 
of  Thisbe  weeping  over  the  body  of  Pyramus.138  Their  strange 
manner  of  scratching  their  faces  and  tearing  their  hair  as  an 
expression  of  grief  resembles  numerous  episodes  of  romances,  as 
can  be  seen,  not  only  in  the  foremost  of  them  all,  namely,  in 
Cervantes,139  but  also  in  minor  writers  of  the  age. 

The  feature  of  letter-writing,  treated  above,  must  be  briefly 
mentioned  because  letters  are  resorted  to  by  lovers  in  the  Meta- 
morphoses in  order  to  make  known  their  passion,  a  trick  of 
Renascence  fiction  which  acquired  some  prominence.140     Busta- 

136  Cf.:....  padre,  si  algun  poder  o  diuinidad  en  ti  ay,  suplicote  socorras 
a  mi,  tu  desconsolada  hija.  O  vos,  rios,  si  alguna  virtud  en  vosotros  ay, 
socorredme  con  vuestras  aguas.  0  tierra,  tu  me  recibe  alia  dentro,  o 
destruye  esta  mi  tan  daiiosa  hermosura,  pues  que  tanto  mal  me  haze, 
etc.,   f.  14. 

!37  Con  entranable  amor  y  dolor  abraqo  el  cuerpo  de  su  hija,  llorando, 
y  rasgando  su  cara,  messando  y  teniendo  [tiiiendo?]  sus  cabellos  en  la 
sangre  que  en  gran  abundancia  della  auia  salido,  dezia:  "Hija,  que  hare 
etc.  .  .  .  Yo  sola,  sin  ventura,  que  solia  ser  tan  honrada  de  hijos  y  de 
yernas,  de  nobles  y  muchos  vasallos,  ahora  me  lleuan  captiua  y  desterrada, 
y  sere  sierua  de  quien  no  deuia  ser:  vieja  soy  etc."  f.  196  verso. 

!38  Cf.   story  in  Appendix. 

!39  Cf.  Studies  in  Cervantes,  II,  Heliodorus,  in  Modern  Philology,  TV, 
4,  1907,  p.  24;  III,  op.  cit.,  p.  540. 

140  Spoken  of  in  connection  with  Pius  II,  Historia  de  dos  amantes, 
p.  108;  for  the  feature  of  letter-writing  in  fiction  cf.  further,  E.  Rohde, 
Der  griechische  Soman  (Leipzig,  1900),  apropos  of  Chariton,  p.  526,  n.  2; 
also  p.  541;  the  Greek  romance  was  one  of  the  earliest  to  make  use  of 
the  love-letter,  sent  to  a  girl  by  her  lover;  cf.  Rohde,  p.  432;  cf.  Persiles, 
II,  ch.  7,  donde  Rutilio  enamorado  de  Policarpa,  y  Clodio  de  Auristela 
las  escriben,  declarandolas  sus  amores. 


168  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

mante  with  his  characteristic  naivete  converts  the  stylus  and  the 
wax  tablet  of  Ovid's  day  into  the  usual  pen  and  paper.  An 
excellent  example  is  the  story  of  the  love  of  Byblis  for  Caunus, 
which  is  much  enlarged  in  the  translation  (f.  145  ff.)  Byblis, 
after  a  rather  lengthy  utterance  of  her  grief,  determines  to  make 
Caunus  acquainted  with  her  passion: 

Ahora,  sus,  determinada  estoy  de  prouar  mi  ventura:  y  pues  yo  no 
se  lo  oso  dezir,i*i  embiarle  he  vna  carta,  en  que  claro  le  muestre,  y 
haga  notorio  el  dolor  en  que  biuo:  y  esto  creo  que  sera  lo  mejor,  y  assi 
encubrire  mi  hecho.  Despues  que  vuo  en  la  cama  sobre  ello  mucho  pen- 
sado,  leuantandose  y  poniendose  recostada  sobre  el  codo  siniestro,  dixo 
assi:  Ay  sin  ventura,  que  sera  de  mi,  que  no  se  que  me  haga,  ni  adonde 
vaya,  ni  que  principio  para  esto  tome!  Dichas  estas  cosas  por  Byblis, 
tomando  vna  pluma  en  la  diestra  mano,  j  el  papel  en  la  siniestra  [dextra 
tenet  ferrum,  vacuam  tenet  altera  ceram,  IX,  522],  pensaua  que  palabras 
escriuiria;  y  despues  comen§aua  a  escriuir,  y  otras  vezes  deshazia  lo  que 
primero  auia  hecho.  A  las  vezes  echaua  la  carta  en  tierra,  y  otras  la 
tornaua  a  tomar  sin  saber  que  se  hazer  etc.     (f.  146). 142 

The  great  resemblance  which  is  noticeable  between  the  exten- 
sive machinery  of  adventure  in  the  romances  of  travel  and  cer- 
tain episodes  in  Virgil's  Aeneid  was  pointed  out  elsewhere.  In 
the  Metamorphoses  much  of  this  machinery  may  be  found  in 
terms  of  the  sixteenth  century,  notably  where  the  episode  is 
either  the  same  as  the  one  described  by  Virgil,  or  where  the  story 
told  is  purely  a  tale  of  adventure  in  little.  In  such  narratives 
the  chief  features  generally  are  the  whims  of  Fortune,  repeated 
aimless  wanderings  over-seas,  or  through  storms,  with  the  inevit- 
able wrecking  or  sinking  of  the  boat,  clashes  with  pirates,  the 
violent  death  of  some  of  the  characters,  prophesies,  dreams  and 
the  like,  all  of  which  are  especially  prominent  in  the  Persiles  of 
Cervantes.  A  good  example  of  this  machinery  of  travel  is  the 
story  of  the  navigation  of  Ceys,  and  of  his  death  (f.  173  verso  ff., 
book  XI)  : 

En  tanto  que  Ceys  estaua  muy  espantado  por  aquellas  marauillas  que 
auia  visto  ....  temeroso  de  tales  sucessos  y  desastres  de  fortuna  que 
siempre   a   los   mas   poderosos   combaten   y   derruecan   con   mas   lastimera 


i4i  This  is  the  case  with  several  heroines  of  romance;  in  the  Persiles 
the  lovers  do  not  dare  to  say  to  one  another  what  they  feel. 
1*2  Cf.  Persiles,  II,  ch.  6:  Periandro  is  writing  to  Auristela. 


1813]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  169 

cayda.  el  queria  yr  en  romeria  a  los  templos  de  Febo,  por  saber  de  Febo 
por  algunas  adeuinan<jas  como  acabaria  su  vida.  Mas  vn  maluado  prin- 
cipe,  gran  cossario  y  enemigo  de  los  dioses  que  auia  nombre  Forbas, 
impidia  el  camino  eon  otro  gran  numero  de  ladrones,  que  a  quantos  passauan 
por  mar  y  por  tierra  todos  los  destruyan. 

Ceys,  however,  takes  leave  of  his  wife,  Alcione  (Halcyone), 
and  sets  sail : 

Ceys  al  salir  del  puerto  no  vuo  buenos  agiieros,143  aunque  al  comienc.o 
luego  vuieron  buen  viento,  y  los  marineros  remaron  a  gran  plazer  .... 
mas  quando  vino  la  noche,  comengaron  a  crescer  las  ondas,  y  enso- 
berueseerse  las  aguas  mas  rezio  que  nunea,  y  los  vientos  comenc.aron  a 
reboluerse,  estendiendo  sus  bracks  muy  sariudamente,  y  la  mar  con 
nueuas  yras  a  brarnar  como  el  toro  quando  le  quieren  matar.  El  mar- 
inero  que  la  nao  gouernaua,  quando  vio  la  mar  turbada,  llamaua  a  grandes 
bozes  a  sus  companeros  que  baxassen  las  velas:  ellos  no  le  podian  oyr  a 
causa  del  ruydo  de  la  ondas  que  crescian,  y  los  vientos  que  entre  sy 
contendian  al  derredor  de  la  nao;  de  manera  que,  quando  ellos  entendieron 
el  mal  muy  cierto  presente,  y  el  remedio  confuso  y  dudoso,  los  vnos 
desamparauan  los  remos,  los  otros  baxauan  las  velas.  La  tormenta  ya 
yua  cresciendo  a  mas  poder,  y  los  vientos  comen^auan  a  combatir  con 
gran  fuerc.a  la  nao,  assi  por  parte  de  dentro,  como  de  fuera.  El  maestro 
que  gouernaua  la  peligrosa  nao  no  sabia  dar  consejo,  tanto  tenia  el 
coracjon  turbado;  sus  companeros  comenc,aron  a  dar  grandes  gritos, 
quando  vieron  que  las  ondas  la  combatian  con  tan  poderosa  furia,  viendo 
que  las  cuerdas  se  yuan  quebrando;  con  el  ruydo  de  los  espantosos  truenos 
y  de  los  temerosos  relampagos,  no  se  sabian  dar  consejo  vnos  a  otros. 
Las  ondas  sobrepujauan  a  las  nuues,  la  mar  y  el  cielo  todo  parescia  que 
era  vno,  a  las  vezes  la  nao  descendia  a  los  abismos,  a  las  vezes  subia 
al  cielo,  las  arenas  y  las  ondas  todas  andauan  embueltas.  Bien  assi  era 
la  nao  combatida  de  todas  partes  de  las  ondas  y  de  los  vientos,  como  el 
castillo  combatido  a  la  redonda  de  tiros,  saetas  y  pertrechos.  Y  no 
pudiendo  ya  sufrir  los  golpes  de  las  ondas,  las  tablas  yuan  quebrandose, 
y  las  ondas  entrauan  a  gran  priessa  dentro,  las  nuues  en  el  cielo  comen- 
§aron  de  crescer  y  llouer  muy  fuertemente;  ....  tan  grande  era  la 
tiniebla,  que  no  se  podian  ver  vnos  a  otros:  los  vnos  llorauan,  los  otros 
se  messauan  y  desseauan  verse  ya  muertos  antes  que  en  tantos  peligros. 
Los  vnos  llamauan  los  padres,  creyendo  nunea  los  ver,  otros  las  madres, 
otros  las  mugeres  y  parientes  etc.  El  mastil  de  la  nao  no  pudiendo  ya 
sufrir  los  golpes  de  los  vientos,  fue  quebrado,  y  el  remo  o  timon  con  que 
la  gouernauan  fue  hecho  pedaqos.  Quando  el  mastil  cayo,  de  la  gran 
carga  del  fue  la  nao  hundida  debaxo  de  las  ondas:  vna  gran  parte  de 
los  hombres  fueron  luego  sumidos,  y  estos  nunea  mas  parescieron. 


143  The  travelers  in  the  Persiles  have  a  similar  premonition,  bk.  I,  18. 
The  description  of  the  storm  which  follows  is  a  purely  conventional  one 
and  is  repeated  in  the  fiction  of  the  Renascence;  it  may  be  found  in  the 
Persiles,  LI,  7 ;  cf .  also  below,  p.  202. 


170  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

Ceys  is  drowned,  but  his  wife  Alcione  learns  of  his  death 
through  a  vision  or  a  dream  in  which  he  appears  to  her.  Similar 
dreams  are  among  the  essential  elements  of  romantic  fiction-144 
From  all  this  may  be  seen  how  closely  such  a  narrative  as  the 
above  is  allied  with  the  novels  of  the  sixteenth  century  in  gen- 
eral, and  with  the  romances  of  adventure  in  particular,  of  which 
the  Persiles  of  Cervantes  is  the  best  exponent. 

The  following  additional  traits  of  the  machinery  of  adven- 
ture can  be  found  in  the  Metamorphoses  of  Bustamante,  though 
they  are  not  always  in  Ovid's  original,  or.  at  least,  are  only  hinted 
at;  they  may  be  classed  with  those  conventional  features  which 
were  pointed  out  in  Virgil  and  in  Heliodorus,  and  which  form 
a  part  of  the  classical  tradition  inherited  by  the  sixteenth  century, 
notably  by  Cervantes.  Wanderers  put  out  to  sea  in  the  following 
way : 

Quando  fueron  todos  ayuntados,  descancaron  y  holgaron  todo  el 
tiempo  que  hasta  la  noche  restaua:  y  otro  dia  se  leuantaron  al  tiempo 
que  se  comenqaua  a  despedir  la  noche,  y  venir  la  fresca  y  rubicunda 
mafiana,  que  leuantandose  el  cierc.o  que  era  viento  a  su  viaje  fauorable. 
que  luego  todos  entraron  en  las  naos,  y  con  el  prospero  tiempo  de  ay  a 
pocos  dias  llegaron  a  Grecia  sanos  y  alegres.    (f.  118  verso.)145 

This  is  Bustamante 's  manner  of  presenting  an  assembled 
crowd  about  to  hear  a  discourse:  "Quando  los  ricos  hombres 
vieron  aquella  contienda.  assentaronse  todos  juntos,  y  hechos  vn 
coro  en  vn  verde  prado  para  oyr  lo  que  Ayax  y  Ylixes  querian 
razonar, "  etc.  (f.  188.)  This  is  the  tone  of  the  adventure  story 
in  which  the  wanderers  sit  down  upon  the  grass  to  hear  a  tale  or 
a  discourse;  similar  scenes  can  be  found  in  Don  Quixote,  the 
Galatea  or  the  Persiles. 

Both  Virgil  and  Ovid,  and  after  them  numerous  poets  and 
novelists  of  the  Renascence,  have  given  us  pictorial  representations 
of  historical  events,  of  legends  and  myths ;  they  are  described  as 

144  Dreams  and  visions  which  occur  in  classical  works,  in  the  Greek 
and  Byzantine  romance,  were  inherited  after  a  long  peregrination  by  the 
fiction  of  the  sixteenth  century;  they  occur  in  the  Persiles  and  have  been 
mentioned  in  Studies   in   Cervantes  II,  p.  26,  and  III.  547. 

i*5  Studies  in  Cervantes,  III,  p.  538. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  171 

engraved  upon  temple  doors,  or  upon  shields  and  vases,  in  metal 
or  stone,  or  they  are  embroidered  upon  fine  cloth.  Ovid  gives 
a  picture  of  earth,  sea,  sky  and  all  living  things  upon  the  doors  of 
the  temple  of  the  sun  (f.  20)  ;  a  golden  vase  has  carved  upon  it 
a  reproduction  of  Thebes  with  its  hundred  gates  (f.  199  verso)  ; 
and  Pallas,  in  competition  with  Arachne,  weaves  into  a  piece  of 
cloth  pictorial  representations  of  various  mythological  tales  (f. 
80  ff.)  The  use  which  Cervantes  makes  of  this  classical  feature 
has  been  treated  elsewhere;146  notably,  how  Periandro  in  the 
Persiles  orders  a  pictorial  history  on  canvas  of  the  chief  events 
of  his  wanderings. 

In  the  pastoral  novels  games  assume  a  prominent  part;  the 
first  hint  of  certain  peculiar  sports  among  country-folk  may  have 
come  from  Virgil's  Georgics,147  but  the  merrymaking  of  shep- 
herds in  the  Eclogues,  fused  with  the  games  described  in  the  fifth 
book  of  the  Aeneid  became  the  chief  traditional  source  for  such 
diversions.  In  all  this  Ovid  also  has  a  share,  for  he  tells  us, 
Book  I,  of  the  institution  of  the  Pythian  games  by  Apollo : 

Instituit   sacros   celebri   certamine   ludos, 
Pythia,  de  domitae  serpentis  nomine  dictos. 
His  juvenum  quicunque  manu,  pedibusve,  rotave 
Vicerat,  aesculeae  capiebat  frondis  honorem.   (446-9.) 

Bustamante  translates  this  as  follows : 

Febo  ordeno  los  juegos  llamados  Pythones,  los  quales  eran  en  esta 
manera  ordenados:  que  qualquier  mancebo  que  venciesse  a  otro,  a  luchar, 
o  a  correr,  o  a  saltar,  o  en  otra  qualquier  manera  de  ligereza,  o  fuerzas, 
fuesse  en  serial  de  vitoria  y  honra  coronado  con  ramos  de  roble,  etc.  (f. 
12  verso.) 

Bustamante 's  games  are  the  conventional  ones  mentioned  in 
all  the  pastoral  romances,  a  fact  of  special  interest  because  his 
translation  antedates  the  Diana  of  Montemayor,  in  which  shep- 
herds indulge  in  "desafios  de  correr,  saltar,  luchar,  y  tirar  la 
barra,  poniendo  por  premio  para  el  que  victorioso  saliere,  cuales 
una   guirnalda, "   etc.      In   El   Pastor   de   Filida   the   order   is: 

146  Studies  in  Cervantes,  III,  p.  510. 

147  Studies  in  Cervantes,  III,  p.  523. 


172  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

"luchar,  saltar,  eorrer  o  tirar  la  barra."148     Several  other  ex- 
amples have  already  been  cited  in  another  place. 

It  is  not  always  easy  to  distinguish  between  the  influence  of 
Virgil's  Aeneid  and  that  of  Ovid's  Metamorphoses,  especially 
where  they  treat  the  same  legend,  such  as  the  wanderings  of 
Aeneas  and  the  love  of  Dido,  the  voyages  and  hardships  of  the 
Greeks  who  left  Troy,  the  story  of  Polyphemus,  and  numerous 
tales  of  other  mythological  characters  in  the  classics.  As  regards 
the  story  of  Aeneas  and  Dido,  it  seems  reasonable  to  believe  that 
a  greater  impression  was  always  made  by  the  fourth  book  of  the 
Aeneid  than  by  Dido's  letter  in  the  Heroides  or  the  references 
to  her  tragic  story  in  the  Metamorphoses.  But  in  some  episodes 
Ovid's  mythological  tales  must,  at  least,  have  exerted  an  influence 
similar  to  that  of  the  Aeneid.  Thus,  some  adventures  of  minor 
significance  in  the  Aeneid  seem,  as  was  pointed  out  before,  to  have 
left  a  trace  in  the  Persiles.  The  lost  Greek  who  is  picked  up  by 
the  Trojans,  an  episode  given  by  Virgil,  is  also  mentioned  in  the 
Metamorphoses  (Book  XIV.  f.  206),  where  he  tells  his  tale  at 
length.  Similarly,  among  the  man-eating  northern  savages,  the 
wanderers  in  the  Persiles  pick  up  an  Italian  who  had  been 
wrecked  on  a  desolate  shore  (p.  571,  col.  1).  Again,  as  the  way- 
faring Greeks  had  come  across  man-eating  savages,  so  Periandro 
and  his  companions  meet  with  a  wild  tribe  which  indulges  in 
human  sacrifices.  Bustamante  describes  such  a  tribe  (f.  155 
verso)  : 

Tan  maligna  era  esta  gente,  que  entre  los  hombres  y  mugeres  eon 
difficultad  se  pudiera  aueriguar  quales  eran  mas  malos;  [ellos  eran] 
especialmente  crueles  en  los  saerificios  que  a  Jupiter  hazian  ....  en 
este  lugar  todo  el  templo  eontinuamente  era  lleno  de  mucha  multitud 
de  sangre  de  todos  aquellos  hombres  estranos  que  en  aquella  villa  llegauan, 
que  todos  eran  degollados  de  mano  de  sus  huespedes,  ete.ns 

14S  Cf.  Menendez  y  Pelavo's  reprint,  Origenes,  II.  p.  417,  col.  2;  also 
Torquemada,  Coloquios  satiricos,  Origenes.  II,  549,  col.  1,  for  sports  among 
shepherds;   also  Studies  in  Cervantes,  III,  524. 

no  It  is  probable  that  Cervantes  was  greatly  impressed  in  his  youth 
by  the  description  of  Mexico  and  of  the  experiences  which  the  earlv 
conquistador es,  notably  Cortes,  had  with  the  natives;  the  accounts  of 
their  human  sacrifices  must  have  thrilled  every  Spaniard,  and  a  reminis- 
cence of  the  feeling  may  have  come  to  Cervantes  when  he  penned  the 
Persiles  in  his  old  age. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  173 

Numerous  adventure  stories  contain  a  kind  of  descent  into 
the  lower  regions,  which  seems  to  go  back  to  Virgil.  In  the 
Metamorphoses,  too,  there  are  descriptions  of  the  lower  regions 
and  some  of  their  creatures,  of  descents  and  returns  which  might 
have  served,  at  least,  to  make  readers  of  Ovid  familiar  with  the 
classical  idea  of  the  Inferno.  See,  for  example,  Juno's  descent 
into  Hades  (Bustamante,  f.  61)  some  of  which  is  not  in  Ovid,  and 
therefore  shows  the  fondness  which  the  Renascence  had  for  dwell- 
ing on  this  subject.  The  translator  takes  pleasure  in  describing 
the  road  to  Hell  and  some  of  the  damned. 

Cervantes  frequently  gives  his  heroines  an  appearance  of 
striking  beauty,  "more  divine  than  human,"  as  in  the  Persiles 
(II,  ch.  11),  where  Auristela  has  a  wild,  huntress-like  appearance. 
Bustamante  describes  Calisto  as  follows  (f.  28)  :  "la  qual  .... 
sabia  tan  solamente  con  arco  y  saetas,  cacando,  seguir  a  la  diosa 
Diana,  trayendo  la  toca  mal  puesta,  y  los  cabellos  rebueltos,  y 
vn  dardo  en  su  mano,  y  vn  arco  con  su  carcax  de  saetas  al  hom- 
bro. "  The  beauty  of  many  Renascence  heroines  is  compared  in 
a  stereotyped  way  with  that  of  Diana,  of  Daphne,  or  of  the 
nymphs  who  haunt  the  woods  and  go  about  with  flowing  hair; 
all  are  divinely  beautiful,  and  if  they  are  compared  with  the 
goddess  of  the  chase  a  little  too  often,  we  must  remember  that  it 
is  usually  done  to  extol  their  chastity  and  maidenly  reserve. 

Finally,  the  batalla  de  los  centauros,  Book  XII,  which  Busta- 
mante gives  in  his  own  words,  is  a  parallel  to  many  a  battle- 
scene  in  stories  of  the  sixteenth  century.  Indeed,  the  translator 
seems  to  have  drawn  more  upon  his  knowledge  of  contemporary 
fiction  than  upon  his  ability  to  render  Ovid  correctly.  The  fol- 
lowing passage  could  be  from  some  romance  of  chivalry  (f.  185 
verso)  :  "otros  quieren  dezir  que  arranco  vn  arbol,  con  el  qual, 
entrando  en  la  peligrosa  batalla,  vuiera  dado  con  el  vn  gran  golpe 
a  Teseo,"  etc.    (Cf.  vs.  355  ff.)  : 

Haud  tulit  utentem  pugnae  successibus  ultra 

Thesea   Demoleon,   solidaque   revellere   terra 

Annosam  pinum  magno  molimine  tentat. 

Quod  quia  non  potuit,  praefractam  misit  in  hostem. 

Such  prowess  would  have  delighted  even  Don  Quixote  himself. 


174  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

3 
CLASSICAL  MYTHOLOGY,  OVID  AND  CERVANTES 

The  Renascence  spirit  in  which  Bustamante's  Metamorphoses 
is  conceived  was  illustrated  in  the  last  chapter.  Its  connection 
with  the  sentimental  tale  as  well  as  the  story  of  travel  and  adven- 
ture has  already  furnished  an  opportunity  of  comparing  some 
features  of  Ovid's  work  with  the  fiction  of  Cervantes,  notably 
with  the  most  characteristic  of  all  serious  Spanish  adventure 
stories  of  the  Renascence,  his  Per  sites  y  Sigismunda.  After 
gathering  all  the  evidence,  it  is  apparent  that  Cervantes  was 
intimately  acquainted  with  the  tales  of  Ovid's  Metamorphoses; 
he  ,carried  them  in  his  memory  and  referred  to  them  as  we  refer 
nowadays  to  well-known  writers  and  their  works.  The  influence 
of  academic  tradition,  however,  was  uppermost  in  the  attitude 
which  he  assumed  toward  the  classics,  and  in  nothing  is  he  more 
a  child  of  his  age  than  in  his  conventional  and  unoriginal  manner 
of  alluding  to  heroes  and  heroines  of  antiquity.  In  all  this  Cer- 
vantes clearly  makes  a  distinct  concession  to  the  learned  element 
of  the  reading  public  in  whose  estimation  a  writer  gained  much 
prestige  by  references,  not  always  happy  or  effective,  to  the 
ancients  and  their  works. 

From  the  character  of  the  references  which  Cervantes  makes 
to  Ovid,  it  is  logical  to  infer  that  in  his  later  years,  at  least,  he 
had  only  the  Spanish  Metamorphoses  in  mind;  in  his  early  youth 
he  may  have  read  the  Latin  poet  in  the  original,  even  though  his 
academic  training  had  relatively  been,  as  is  generally  admitted, 
of  a  very  meager  kind.  But  the  fact  that  he  quotes  lines  from 
Ovid  on  a  few  occasions  cannot  be  taken  as  serious  evidence  of 
his  classical  learning ;  the  very  nature  of  innumerable  allusions  to 
characters  in  Ovid,  given  in  a  Spanish  form,  indicates  that  Cer- 
vantes was  well  acquainted  with  some  contemporary  version.  And 
what  is  more  likely  than  that  this  should  be  Bustamante's,  a 
translation  which  must  have  already  been  current  when  Cervantes 
was  a  boy  and  which,  in  its  numerous  editions,  was  presumably 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  175 

the  only  available  Spanish  version  up  to  1580?  Be  this  as  it 
may,  he  refers  to  the  Metamorfoseos  o  las  Transformaciones  de 
Ovidio  various  times  The  young  student  who  guides  Don 
Quixote  to  the  cave  of  Montesinos  says,  ' '  que  su  profesion  era  ser 
humanista,  sus  exercicios  y  estudios  componer  libros  para  dar 
a  la  estampa,  todos  de  gran  prouecho,  y  no  menos  entretenimiento 
para  la  Republica."  One  of  them  is  to  be  called  ''Metamorfoseos, 
o  Ouidio  Espafwl,  de  inuencion  nueua,  y  rara :  porque  en  el, 
imitando  a  Ouidio  a  lo  burlesco,  pinto  quien  fue  la  Giralda  de 
Seuilla,  y  el  Angel  de  la  Madalena,  quien  el  caho  de  Vecinguerra 
de  Cordoua,  quienes  los  toros  de  Guisando,  la  Sierra  Morena,  las 
fuentes  de  Leganitos,  y  Lauapies  en  Madrid,  no  oluidandome  de 
la  del  Piojo,  de  la  del  cario  Dorado,  y  de  la  Priora ;  y  esto  con  sus 
alegorias,  metaforas,  y  translaciones,  de  modo  que  alegran,  sus- 
penden,  y  enseiian  a  un  mismo  punto. "  (II,  chap  xxii).  Here 
the  phrase  con  sus  alegorias  recalls  the  titles  of  translations,  which 
frequently  added  that  the  work  was  divided  into  fifteen  books 
con  las  alegorias  al  fin  dellos,  or,  con  sus  alegorias  al  fin  de  cada 
libro,  or,  con  el  comento  y  explicacion  de  las  fabulas.  The  Italian 
versions  also  added  occasionally  con  le  sue  allegoric 

In  el  Vizcaino  fingido  Solorzano  says:  "Venga  mi  cadena 
verdadera,  y  tomese  vuesa  merced  su  falsa;  que  no  ha  de  haber 
conmigo  transformaciones  de  Ovidio  en  tan  poco  espacio."  And 
in  la  ilustre  Fregona:  "He  aqui  tenemos  ya  (en  buen  hora  se 
cuente)  a  Avendaiio  hecho  mozo  de  meson,  con  nombre  de  Tomas 
Pedro,  que  asi  dijo  que  se  llamaba,  y  a  Carriazo,  con  el  de  Lope 
asturiano,  hecho  aguador :  transformaciones  dignas  de  antepo- 
nerse  a  las  del  narigudo  poeta. ' '  These  seem  like  references  to  a 
book  of  popular  tales.  That  Cervantes  had  the  Metamorphoses 
in  mind  frequently  is  evident  also  from  such  passages  as  the 
following:  "Si  [trataredes]  de  crueles,  Ovidio  os  entregara  a 
Medea  (D.Q.  I,  Prologo)  ;  and  the  "nuestro  espaiiol  Ovidio"  of 
the  sonnet  to  Sancho  (D.Q.,  Introductory  verse)  in  which  Cer- 
vantes compares  himself  with  the  author  of  the  Metamorphoses, 
thinking  of  Ovid  after  the  popular  manner,  as  a  writer  of  wonder- 
ful transformations  with   which  the   change   of   Sancho   into   a 


176  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

knight's  squire  deserves  to  take  rank.  Again,  at  the  close  of 
chapter  vi,  part  one,  Cervantes  alludes  to  a  certain  poet  (pre- 
sumably Luis  Barahona  de  Soto)150  who  is  characterized  as 
"felicisimo  en  la  traduccion  de  algunas  fabulas  de  Ovidio. "  TIip 
word  fabulas  naturally  implies  the  Metamorphoses,  and  in  another 
passage  Cervantes  seems  to  refer  to  that  work  without  mention- 
ing Ovid:  Leonora,  the  fiancee  of  el  Portugues  (Persiles,  I,  x), 
is  described  thus:  "Parecio  a  todos  los  ojos  que  la  miraban  lo 
que  suele  parecer  la  bella  Aurora  al  despuntar  del  dia,  o  lo  que 
dicen  las  antiguas  fabulas,  que  parecia  la  casta  Diana  en  los 
bosques, "  etc.,  where  the  reference  may  be  to  various  passages 
of  the  Metamorphoses  in  which  Diana  appears. 

Cervantes  hints  at  Ovid's  pathetic  fate,  his  exile  from  Rome, 
in  the  following  sentence;  he  could  have  found  his  information 
in  a  brief  life  of  Ovid,  which  was  included  in  some  of  the  Spanish 
editions  : ' '  hay  poetas  que  a  trueco  de  decir  una  malicia  se  pondran 
a  peligro  que  los  destierren  a  las  islas  de  Ponto"  (D.Q.  II,  ch. 
xvi).151  And:  "he  considerado  que  de  las  buenas  y  concertadas 
republicas  se  habian  de  desterrar  los  poetas,  como  aconseja 
Platon"  (D.Q.  II,  xxxviii)  where  there  seems  to  be  a  fusion  of 
the  precepts152  in  Plato's  Republic  and  the  real  facts  of  Ovid's 


150  Of.  Clemenein  's  edition  of  Don  Quixote,  and  that  of  Cortejon; 
Gallardo,  Ensayo  de  una  biblioteca,  II,  col.  15;  and  the  masterly  work 
by  D.  Francisco  Rodriguez  Marin:  Luis  Baraliona  de  Soto,  etc.  (Madrid, 
1903),  pp.  2,  15,  291  ff.,  et  al. 

isi  Cf.  also  El  Fiaje  del  Parnaso,  IV,  6;  Don  Quixote,  II,  ch.  38:  "los 
tales  trovadores  con  justo  titulo  los  debian  desterrar  a  las  islas  de  los 
lagartos, "  a  humorous  reference  to  Ovid's  fate. 

152  Socrates  speaks: 

".  ...  As  to  asserting  that  God,  who  is  good,  becomes  the  author  of 
evil  to  any,  we  must  do  battle  uncompromisingly  for  the  principle,  that 
fictions  conveying  such  a  doctrine  as  this,  whether  in  verse  or  in  prose, 
shall  neither  be  recited  or  heard  in  the  city,  by  any  member  of  it,  young 
or  old,  if  it  is  to  be  a  well-regulated  city;  because  such  language  may 
not  be  used  without  irreverence,  and  is,  moreover,  both  injurious  to  us 
and  self-contradictory." — bk.  II,  sec.  380. 

"Let  [the  poets]  beware  of  ...  .  attempting  to  make  our  young  men 
believe  that  the  gods  are  parents  of  evil,  and  that  heroes  are  no  better 
than  common  men:  for,  as  we  said  above,  these  statements  are  at  once 
irreverent  and  untrue;  for  we  have  proved,  I  believe,  that  evils  cannot, 
originate  with  the  gods." — III,  391. 

"This  being  the  case,  ought  we  to  confine  ourselves  to  superintending 
our  poets,  and  compelling  them  to  impress  upon  their  productions  the 
likeness  of  a  good  moral  character,  on  pain  of  not  composing  among  us; 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  177 

life.153  The  idea  that  Ovid's  place  of  banishment  was  an  island 
or  islands  can  be  found  in  Spanish  long  before  the  day  of  Cer- 
vantes ;  it  may  have  entered  through  some  of  the  mediaeval  vitae 
of  the  poet,  or  the  misconception  may  be  attributed  to  inadequate 
geographical  charts.  In  Rodriguez  de  la  Camara's  translation 
of  the  Heroides,  el  Bursario,  may  be  found  the  following  passage 
on  Ovid's  exile:  "y  puesque  auemos  de  tratar  de  la  primera  obra 
que  hizo  Ouidio,  auemos  de  saber  qual  causa  lo  mouio  principal 
mente  a  lo  hazer.  Para  lo  qual  deuemos  saber  que  estando  en  el 
logar  donde  era  natural,  el  qual  se  llama  Pelino  opydo,154  que 
quiere  dezir  castillo  de  aguas,  vyendo  los  otros  actores  por  sus 
tratados  poetycos  ser  proueydos  a  grande  honor,  fuese  a  Roma, 

or  ought  we  to  extend  our  superintendence  to  the  professors  of  every 
other  craft  as  well,  and  forbid  them  to  impress  those  signs  of  an  evil 
nature,  of  dissoluteness,  of  meanness,  and  of  ungracefulness,  either  on  the 
likenesses  of  living  creatures,  or  on  buildings,  or  on  any  other  work  of 
their  hands;  altogether  interdicting  such  as  cannot  do  otherwise  from 
working  in  our  city,  that  our  guardians  may  not  be  reared  amongst  images 
of  vice,  as  upon  unwholesome  pastures,  culling  much  everyday  by  little 
and  little  from  many  places,  and  feeding  upon  it,  until  they  insensibly 
accumulate  a  large  mass  of  evil  in  their  inmost  souls?  Ought  we  not,  on 
the  contrary,  to  seek  out  artists  of  another  stamp,  who  by  the  power  of 
genius  can  trace  out  the  nature  of  the  fair  and  the  graceful,  that  our 
young  men,  dwelling  as  it  were  in  a  healthful  region,  may  drink  in  good 
from  every  quarter,  whence  any  emanation  from  noble  works  may  strike 
upon  their  eye  or  their  ear,  like  a  gale  wafting  health  from  salubrious 
lands,  and  win  them  imperceptibly  from  their  earliest  childhood  into 
resemblance,  love,  and  harmony  with  the  true  beauty  of  reason?" — III, 
401. 

(And  in  the  nature  of  a  resume) : — "Whenever  you  meet  with  eulogists 
of  Homer,  who  tell  you  that  he  has  educated  Greece,  and  that  he  deserves 
to  be  taken  up  and  studied  with  an  eye  to  the  administration  and  guid- 
ance of  human  affairs,  and  that  a  man  ought  to  regulate  the  tenor  of 
his  whole  life  by  this  poet's  directions,  it  will  be  your  duty  to  greet 
them  affectionately  as  excellent  men  to  the  best  of  their  ability,  and 
to  admit  that  Homer  is  first  and  greatest  among  tragic  poets;  but  you 
must  not  forget,  that,  with  the  single  exception  of  hymns  to  the  gods  and 
panegyrics  on  the  good,  no  poetry  ought  to  be  admitted  into  a  state. 
For  if  you  determine  to  admit  the  highly-seasoned  muse  of  lyric  or  epic 
poetry,  pleasure  and  pain  will  have  sovereign  power  in  your  state,  instead 
of  law  and  those  principles  which,  by  the  general  consent  of  all  time, 
are  most  conformable  to  reason."- — X,  607. — From  The  Republic  of  Plato, 
translated  into  English,  etc.,  by  Davies  and  Vaughan  (Golden  Treasury 
Series),  London,  1892. 

153  ln  the  Persiles,  Clodio  is  banished  from  the  Court  of  England 
because  of  his  malicious  tongue. 

is*  Taken  presumably  out  of  some  vita  Ovidii  which  spoke  of  his 
native  town  Sulmo  as  oppidum  Pelignum;  cf.  Tristia  IV,  el.  10,  and 
Amoves  III,  el.  15. 


178  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

en  la  qual  aplico  el  su  coracon  a  tratar  de  las  cosas  inuentibles, 
segund  que  el  dize  en  otro  tratado  llamado  de  Ponta  (sic),  el 
qual  hizo  estando  desterrado  en  vna  ysla,  a  do  dize:  Leta  fere 
letus  cecini ;  cano  tristia  tristis,  que  quiere  dezir :  las  cosas  alegres 
cante  con  poca  alegria;  agora  canto  las  tristes  con  grand 
tristeza.  "155 

In  this  question  of  the  nature  and  wherabouts  of  Pontus,  it 
could  have  been  very  natural  for  anyone  who  read  Latin  with 
difficulty  to  misinterpret  some  of  Ovid's  own  lines.  The  follow- 
ing passages,  for  example,  might  give  anyone  wholly  ignorant  of 
geography  the  idea  that  Pontus  was  accessible  only  by  means 
of  ships : 

Nee  mare  concrescit  glacie:  nee,  ut  ante,  per  Istrum 
Stridula  Sauromates  plaustra  bubulcus  agit. 

Incipient  aliquae  tamen  hue  adnare  carinae, 
Hospitaque  in  Ponti  littore  puppis  erit. 

(Tristia,  III,  xii,  29-32.) 


and 


Frigida  me  eohibent  Euxini  littora  Ponti. 

(Tristia,  IV,  iv,  55.) 


Throughout  his  works  Cervantes  gives  evidence  of  acquaint- 
ance with  the  classics  to  an  extent  which  was  in  keeping  with  the 
tradition  of  Renascence  fiction  :156  he  shows  neither  an  original 
interpretation  of  the  ancients,  nor  more  than  a  current  popular 
manner  of  referring  to  them.  This  is  especially  evident  from  his 
allusions  to  classical  mythology  and  to  Ovidian  tales  or  charac- 
ters. The  following  passages  contain  the  most  prominent  or 
characteristic  ones : 

Actaeon — In  the  first  edition  of  Don  Quixote,  from  which  I 
shall  always  quote,  II,  chap  lviii,  f.  222,  the  word  is  spelt  Anteon, 

J55  Epistolarum  ex  Ponto  lib.  tertius,  epist.  IX  v.  35;  p.  197  of 
Obras  de  Rodriguez  de  la  Cdmara,  op.  cit. 

me  The  phrase  est  deus  in  nobis,  D.Q.  II,  16,  may  be  found  in  Ovid, 
Ars  amat.  Ill,  549,  and  Fasti,  VI,  5,  but  might  have  been  taken  by  Cer- 
vantes from  some  contemporary  writer;  Pellicer,  D.Q.  compares  the 
phrase:  del  eual  se  dira  lo  que  del  otro  se  dijo,  que  si  no  aeabo  grandes 
cosas,  murio  por  acometellas,  I,  ch.  26,  with  the  epitaph  of  Phaethon 
(Met.  II,  327-8);  Of.  also  F.  W.  V.  Schmidt,  Die  Sehauspiele  Calderons 
(Elberfeld,  1857),  p.  440. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  179 

which  doubtless  represents  the  manuscript  of  Cervantes ;  all  the 
editions  of  Bustamante  which  I  have  seen  also  have  Anteon.1^7 — 
The  passage  in  Don  Quixote  runs  as  follows :  "no  deuio  de  quedar 
mas  suspenso  ni  admirado  Anteon,  quando  vio  al  improuiso 
baiiarse  en  las  aguas  a  Diana,  como  yo  he  quedado  atonito  en  ver 
vuestra  belleza";  the  Spanish  Metamorphoses  reads:  "En  fin  de 
aquel  valle  esta  vna  cueua  muy  hermosa,  y  dentro  esta  vna  fuente 
mny  clara  y  muy  fresca.  Alii  se  solia  bafiar  Diana  quando  venia 
cansada  de  cagar.  .  .  .  Entretanto  que  ella  se  banaua,  Anteon, 
nieto  de  Cadmo,  andaua  por  aquel  monte  perdido ;  sus  hados 
malos  lo  llevaron  a  aquel  lugar  .  .  .  .  y  como  la  venida  fue  de 
sobresalto,  Diana,  que  sin  temor  descuydada  estaua,  oyendo  el 
estruendo  de  bozes,  como  boluio  la  cara  atras  y  le  vio,  quisierale 
matar,"  etc.    (bk.  Ill,  f.  44.) 

Adonis — is  mentioned  several  times ;  in  the  Viaje  del  Par- 
naso,158  cap.  V,  the  robe  of  Venus  is  described ;  she  wears 

Luto  que  por  su  Adonis  se  le  puso, 
Luego  que  el  gran  colmillo  del  berraco 
A  atravesar  sus  ingles  se  dispuso. 

Bustamante  tells  this  story  at  great  length  (161  ff):  .  .  .  . 
"levantaron  vn  puerco  montes.  Adonis  quando  lo  vio  que  salia, 
yendose  a  el,  metiole  vn  venablo  por  el  rostro.  El  puerco  quando 
se  sintio  herido,  desecho  el  venablo  de  sy,  y  lanco  los  colmillos 
por  la  ingre  a  Adonis :  el  cayo  luego  muerto  en  tierra.  Venus 
quando  vio  que  Adonis  era  muerto,  ....  rompio  luego  sus 
panos,  y  hizo  gran  duelo  sobre  el,"  etc.  (Cf.  also  Persiles,  III, 
ch.  xxi.) 

Aganipe — "El  rubio  seiior  de  Delo — De  su  agua  de  Aganipe 
— Te  de  a  beber  un  caldero"  {La  gran  Sultana,  III)  ;  "la  bella 
corriente  de  Aganipe"  (Viaje  del  Parnaso,  I)  ;  "trocar  los  Par- 
nasos  con  los  mesones  y  las  Castalias  y  las  Aganipes  con  los 
charcos  y  arroyos  de  los  caminos  y  ventas"   (Persiles,  III,  ii)  ; 


is?  ln  the  Historia  de  dos  amantes  by  Pius  II,  p.  52,  can  be  found 
the  spelling  Antheon. 

iss  I  quote  the  Viaje  from  vol.  8  of  Obras  completas  de  Cervantes 
(Madrid,  Rivadeneyra,  1864);  cf.  also  Obras  menores  de  Cervantes,  Colec- 
cion  Diamante,  vols.  94,  95,  Barcelona,  s.  a.  [very  recent]. 


180  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Mentioned  Metamorphoses,  V,  312 ;  Fasti,  V,  7 ;  Pliny,  Hist.  Nat. 
4,  3.  4,  8,  speaks  of  the  Castalian  fountain.  Frequently,  when 
the  meaning  of  a  word  is  not  clear  from  the  mere  text,  the  com- 
mentaries of  the  Spanish  translators  give  the  necessary  informa- 
tion. 

Amadriades — "vistieron  a  Taurisa  rica  y  gallardamente,  al 
modo  que  suelen  vestirse  las  ninfas  de  las  aguas,  o  las  amadriades 
de  los  montes"  (Pcrsiles,  I,  ii)  ;  the  Latin  texts  spell  the  word 
hamadryades,  whereas  Bustamante  writes  as  above:  "En  los 
montes  frios  de  Arcadia  auia  vna  ninfa  muy  en  estremo  hermosa 
y  honrrada  entre  las  Amadriades."  (f.  17  verso.) 

Anteo — "la  industria  de  Hercules,  quando  ahogo  a  Anteo  el 
hijo  de  la  Tierra  entre  los  bracos"  (D.  Q.  I.  i.  f.  2  verso.  1st  edit.)  ; 
"le  ahogo,  acordandose  entonces  de  la  muerte  que  dio  Hercules 
a  Anteon,  aquel  feroz  gigante  que  dezian  ser  hijo  de  la  tierra" 
(D.  Q.  II,  xxxii,  f.  125  verso,  1st  ed.)  Since  the  first  edition  of 
part  one  printed  Anteo  correctly,  the  Anteon  of  part  two  may 
have  been  the  printer's  error.  Antaeus  is  mentioned  in  Meta- 
morphoses, IX,  184.  among  the  deeds  of  Hercules. 

Apolo — "El  rubicundo  Apolo"  (D.Q.  I,  ii,  4  verso)  ;  "Sus 
caballos  aguije  el  rubio  Apolo"  (D.  Q.  I.  Amadis  de  Gaula  a  Don 
Quixote  de  la  Mancha,  Soneto)  ;  "las  ruedas  del  carro  de  Apolo 
se  auian  quebrado"  (D.  Q.  II.  lxxi.  f.  269  verso.)  The  myth 
of  the  god  of  the  sun  is  given  at  length  in  Metamorphoses,  II; 
see  also  under  Febo.  Apollo  also  inspires  poetry  and  music : 
"daranos  ....  Apolo  versos"  (D.  Q.  II,  lxvii,  f.  257  verso)  ; 
"sobre  la  mitad  de  mi  alma  predomina  Marte,  y  sobre  la  otra 
mitad  Mercurio  y  Apolo"  (Persiles,  IV,  i)  ;  cf.  also  the  Yiaje 
del  Parnaso. 

Aquiles — "pusiera  en  su  oluido  las  [cosas]  de  los  Hetores, 
Aquiles.  y  Roldanes"  (D.  Q.  I.  xxxii.  f.  180)  ;  "puede  mostrar 
....  la  valentia  de  Aquiles"  (I.  xlvii.  f.  290)  ;  "Y  si  es 
mentira,  tambien  lo  deue  de  ser,  que  no  huuo  Hector,  ni  Aquiles, 
ni  la  guerra  de  Troya."  etc.  (I,  xlix.  f.  298  verso.)  The  story 
of  Achilles  is  told  in  many  books  accessible  to  Cervantes ;  he  must 
have  seen,   among  others,   Spanish  versions  of  Homer,   Yirgil. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  181 

Chronicles  of  Troy,  and  the  detailed  stories  in  the  Metamorphoses, 
XII  and  XIII;  Bnstamante  recounts  them  at  length  and  in  his 
usual  manner.  The  name  Aquiles  (frequently  written  Arquiles) 
is  important  in  its  influence  on  names  in  sixteenth  century 
romances :  it  seems  to  have  been  the  model  of  all  forms  in  -iles, 
and  determines  the  pronunciation  of  words  like  Persiles.  There 
can  be  no  doubt  that  it  is  to  be  stressed  on  the  second  syllable. 

Arcadia — "leia  como  el  pastor  de  Anfriso  cantaba  estremada 
y  divinamente,  alabando  a  la  sin  par  Belisarda,  sin  haber  en 
todos  los  montes  de  Arcadia  arbol  en  cuyo  tronco  no  se  hubiese 
sentado  a  cantar  desde  que  salia  el  sol  en  los  brazos  del  Aurora, 
hasta  que  se  ponia  en  los  de  Tetis"  (Coloquio  de  los  perros)  ;  this 
is  merely  the  vocabulary  of  the  pastoral  romances  satirized  by 
Cervantes,  especially  of  Lope  de  Vega's  Arcadia.  The  phrase 
"el  pastor  de  Anfriso"  was  no  doubt  originally  taken  from 
Virgil  (Georgics,  III,  2)  : 

Te  quoque,  magna  Pales,  et  te  memorande  canemos 
Pastor  ab  Amphryso,  vos,  silvae  amnesque  Lycaei. 

This  refers  to  Apollo,  for  on  the  banks  of  the  river  Amphrysus 
that  god  was  condemned  to  feed  the  flocks  of  Admetus.  In  an 
introductory  sonnet  to  the  Arcadia,  directed  by  the  shepherd 
Amphrysus  to  Lope  de  Vega  may  be  found : 

a  Apolo  llaman  el  pastor  de  Amphryso; 
si  soy  Amphryso  yo,  vos  sois  mi  Apolo. 

If  in  the  first  line  Amphryso  is  a  river  and  in  the  second  the 
name  of  a  shepherd.  Lope's  play  upon  words  is  rather  far- 
fetched. At  all  events,  the  phrase  in  Cervantes  should  read 
el  pastor  Anfriso,  in  which  form  Lope  frequently  refers  to  his 
shepherd  Amphrysus,  a  character  in  the  Arcadia.  In  the  Per- 
siles, Cervantes  again  speaks  of  "el  pastor  de  Anfriso, ' '  but  this 
time  it  is  printed  correctly,  because  he  alludes  to  Apollo:  "Ser- 
viales  de  Argos  el  mozo  Antonio,  de  lo  que  sirvio  el  pastor  de 
Anfriso :  eran  los  ojos  de  los  dos  centinelas  no  dormidos,  pues 
por  sus  cuartos  la  hacian  a  las  mansas  y  hermosas  ovejuelas  que 
debajo  de  su  solicitud  y  vigilancia  se  amparaban."  (I,  xxi.)     Of 


182  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

the  land  Arcadia  Bustamante  says:  "hallose  Jupiter  en  esta 
tierra  de  Arcadia  en  vn  llano  eampo  muy  fresco  y  agradable,  a 
causa  de  los  suaues  y  confortatiuos  olores  que  de  las  flores  de 
muchas  y  diuersas  yeruas  que  alii  estauan  salian,"  etc.  (f.  27 
verso).  Aurora  is  frequently  mentioned  by  Cervantes  in  the 
stereotyped  way  for  the  dawn:  "la  venida  de  la  rosada  Aurora" 
(D.Q.  I,  ii,  f.  5)  ;  "[Leonora]  parecio  a  todos  los  ojos  que  la 
miraban  lo  que  suele  parecer  la  bella  Aurora  al  despuntar  del 
dia"  (Persiles,  I,  x)  ;  "la  Aurora,  que  por  los  balcones  del 
oriente  se  asomaba"  (Persiles,  III,  xi)  ;  Ovid  has  an  excellent 
example  of  this  myth  of  the  dawn : 

lam   super  Oceanum   venit  a  seniore  marito, 

Flava  pruinoso  quae  vehit  axe  diem. 
Quo  properas,  Aurora? — (Amores,  I,  xiii.) 

Cervantes  repeats  the  figure  in  which  Tetis  is  used  for  the  sea 
in  the  Persiles,  and  in  the  same  words:  "Iba  el  sol  a  esta  sazon 
a  ponerse  en  los  brazos  de  Tetis"  (I,  xviii)  ;  Tethys,  wife  of 
Oceanus,  (for  the  sea)  occurs  Metamorphoses,  II,  69,  509,  not  to 
be  confounded  with  Thetis.  Bustamante  translates  the  passage 
about  the  sun  as  follows:  "La  postrera  carrera  es  mas  baxa, 
y  baxando  por  ella  han  alii  menester  los  caballos  gran  resistencia 
y  gouierno  para  baxar  donde  esta  la  diosa  Tetis,  que  es  diosa  de 
la  mar."  (f.  21;  and  elsewhere.) 

Argos — "no  pende  relicario  de  toca,  ni  hay  faldriquera  tan 
escondida,  que  mis  dedos  no  visiten,  ni  mis  tijeras  no  corten, 
aunque  lo  esten  guardando  con  los  ojos  de  Argos"  (Rinconete 
y  Cortadillo)  ;  "el  era  la  ronda  y  centinela  de  su  casa,  y  el 
Argos  de  lo  que  bien  queria"  {El  celeso  estremeno)  ;  "con  ojos 
de  lince  vencio  a  los  de  Argos,  derribo  y  trionfo  de  mi  industria, 
venciendo  a  mi  hermana"  (La  Seiiora  Cornelia)  ;  "sin  que  nues- 
tras  industrias,  estratagemas,  solicitudes,  y  fraudes  ayan  podido 
deslumbrar  sus  ojos  de  Argos"  (D.  Q.  II,  lxv,  f.  253)  ;  "este 
Argos  desta  ternera  de  Auristela"  (Persiles,  II,  v;  also  I,  xxi.) 
The  story  of  Argos  set  to  watch  over  lo  is  told  at  length  by 
Bustamante    (f.   16  ff.)  :  "  [Juno]    dio  la  vaca  a  guardar  a  vn 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  183 

pastor  que  dezian  Argos,  que  tenia  cient  ojos :  y  destos  quando 
los  vnos  dormian,  los  otros  velauan,"  etc. 

Ariadna — "prometen  el  fenix  de  Arabia,  la  corona  de 
Ariadna  (text  reads  Aridiana)  los  cauallos  del  sol,"  etc.  (D.  Q. 
II,  xxxviii,  f.  147  verso)  ;  the  crown  of  Ariadne  was  changed 
by  Bacchus  into  a  constellation ;  cf .  Met.  VIII,  155  ff .,  and  tenth 
letter  of  the  Heroides. 

Avion — called  Marion  by  Maniferro  in  Rinconete  y  Cor- 
tadillo  :  ' '  Marion  que  subio  sobre  el  delfin  "  ;  cf .  Fasti,  II,  79  ff . 

Baco — "Con  Venus  y  con  Baco  entretenidos"  (Numancia, 
I)  ;  "no  danzan  ni  tienen  otros  pasatiempos  sino  lo  que  les  ofrece 
Baco  en  sus  tazas  risueno"  (Persiles,  II,  v)  ;  the  use  of  Bacchus 
for  wine,  Ceres  for  food,  and  Venus  for  love  is  very  common  in 
the  classics  and  in  the  writers  of  the  Renascence ;  Lope  de  Vega 
(Los  embustes  de  Celauro,  I,  3)  has:  "Ah!  Como  Venus  se 
enfria,  Si  faltan  Ceres  y  Baco!"  Again  in  the  Persiles,  I,  v: 
"no  tuve  amistad  en  mis  verdes  afios  ni  con  Ceres  ni  con  Baco, 
y  asi  en  mi  siempre  estuvo  Venus  fria."  The  Spanish  Heliodorus 
(edit.  1554)  has  (f.  133)  :  "los  hombres  cantando  beuieron  en 
honra  de  Bacho,  y  las  mugeres  dancaron  al  son  de  vn  hymno  por 
dar  gracias  a  Ceres."  Terence  seems  to  have  coined  the  phrase, 
"sine  Cerere  et  Libero  (Bacchus)  friget  Venus"  (Eun.  4,  5,  6)  ; 
cf.  Virgil,  Aeneid,  I,  177,  215;  Ovid  tells  of  the  birth  of  Bacchus 
Met.  Ill,  and  Bustamante,  f .  46 ;  on  the  festivities  instituted  in 
honor  of  the  god  of  wine,  Met.  IV ;  Bustamante,  f .  53  ff. 

Buho — "el  triste  canto  del  embidiado  buho"  (D.Q.  I,  xiv, 
f.  53)  ;  cf.  Clemencin's  note  which  refers  to  Metamorphoses,  V, 
550 :  ignavus  bubo,  dirum  mortalium  omen.  This  idea  was  taken 
up  in  the  literature  of  the  Renascence. 

Busiris — "no  esteis  tan  triste,  buen  hombre,  porque  no 
aueis  caydo  en  las  manos  de  algun  cruel  Osiris,  sino  en  las  de 
Roque  Guinart"  (D.Q.  II,  lx,  f.  230)  ;  it  is  probable  that  the 
manuscript  of  Cervantes  had  Busiris  and  not  Osiris ;  that  Roque 
did  not  wish  to  have  himself  considered  a  cruel  host  as  was 
Busiris:  Bustamante  lets  Hercules  tell  of  his  deeds  as  follows 
(IX,  f.  138  verso)  :  "Yo  mate  a  Busiris,  el  qual  por  quitar  de 


184  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

su  reyno  la  gran  esterilidad  de  los  frutos,  diziendole  vn  adeuino 
suyo  que  los  dioses  querian  ser  sacrificados  con  sangre  humana, 
.  .  .  .  les  saerifico  el  mesmo  adeuino,  y  de  alii  adelante  a  otros 
innnitos." 

Cadmo — "de  los  dientes  de  la  serpiente  de  Cadmo  habian 
nacido  hombres  armados"  (Ad junta  at  Parnaso)  ;  Metamor- 
phoses, III  tells  how  Cadmus  slew  the  dragon,  and,  at  the  advice 
of  Pallas,  sowed  the  teeth  from  which  sprang  armed  men; 
Bustamante  describes  the  dragon  thus:  "  [auia]  dentro  en  la 
cueua  vna  grande  serpiente,  assi  relumbraua  con  los  ojos  como 
centellas  de  fuego,  y  parecia  que  tenia  cresta  en  la  cabeca;  y 
tenia  tres  lenguas  y  los  dientes  a  tres  ordenes.  .  .  .  Estando 
[Cadmo]  en  esto,  he  aqui  donde  viene  Pallas  para  consolar  el 
animoso  mancebo,  y  mandale  que  meta  so  la  tierra  los  dientes 
de  la  sierpe  y  que  vera  como  luego  nasceran  dellos  hombres 
armados."  (f.  42  ff.) 

Castor  y  Polux — "Estoy  ya  para  quedarme,  y  para  aguar- 
dar  aqui  solo,  no  solamente  a  la  santa  Hermandad  que  dizes,  y 
temes,  sino  ....  a  Castor  y  a  Polux,"  etc.  (D.Q.  I,  xxiii,  f. 
108)  ;  these  two  brothers  are  mentioned  by  Ovid  (Met.  VIII, 
301)  merely  as  Tyndaridae  gemini,  which  Bustamante  translates 
(f.  81  verso)  :  "Entre  todos  estos  animosos  mancebos,  que  para 
esta  caca  se  juntaron,  iban  dos  hermanos,  llamados  Castor  y 
Polux,  mancebos  hermosos,  sabios  y  esforcados. "  Cf.  also  Fasti, 
V,  693  ff. 

Ceroero — "las  tres  gargantas  del  airado  Cervero"  (Numan- 
cia,  II)  ;  "el  portero  infernal  de  los  tres  rostros"  (D.  Q.  I,  xiv,  f. 
54  verso)  ;  Bustamante  (f.  62)  ;  "luego  assomo  el  portero  que 
las  guarda  (las  puertas),  que  es  el  can  Cerbero,  horrible  animal 
de  tres  cabecas,"  etc. 

Circe — "Virgilio  [tiene]  a  Circe"  (D.Q.  I,  Prologo)  ;  Ovid 
(Met.  XIV,  247  ff.  et  al.)  tells  us  more  about  Circe  than  Virgil. 
Circe  is  also  mentioned  with  Medea  in  the  Coloquio  de  los 
perros;  Bustamante  tells  of  the  transformations  effected  by  Circe 
at  length  (f.  208  ff.) 

Dafne — "Y  tu,  sol,  que  ya  deues  de  estar  apriessa  ensillando 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  185 

tus  cauallos,  por  madrugar  y  salir  a  ver  a  mi  senora,  assi  corao 
la  veas,  suplicote  que  de  mi  parte  la  saludes :  pero  guardate  que 
al  verla  y  saludarla,  no  le  des  paz  en  el  rostro,  que  tendre  mas 
zelos  de  ti,  que  tu  los  tuuiste  de  aquella  ligera  ingrata,  que  tanto 
te  hizo  sudar,  y  correr  por  los  llanos  de  Tesalia,  o  por  las  riberas 
de  Peneo,  que  no  me  acuerdo  bien  por  donde  corriste  entonces, 
zeloso  y  enamorado"  (D.Q.  I,  xlii,  f.  265);  "Eres  Dafne  por 
ventura,  Que  de  Apolo  va  huyendo.  ...  ?"  (La  casa  de  los 
celos)  ;  the  Viaje  del  Pamaso,  V,  has : 

.  .  .  .  y  asi  Apolo 
Condescendio  con  sus  deseos  luego; 

Que  es  el  galan  de  Dafne  unico  y  solo 
En  usar  cortesia  sobre  cuantos 
Descubre  el  nuestro  y  el  contrario  polo. 

And  in  the  Persiles,  I,  xix:  "Ves  aqui,  o  nuevo  cazador,  mas 
hermoso  que  Apolo,  otra  nueva  Dafne  que  no  te  huye,  sino  que 
te  sigue. "  Bustamante's  version  has  been  given  in  a  previous 
chapter.  An  interesting  detail  may  connect  the  latter  with  the 
mention  in  Cervantes  of  Tesalia  and  the  riberas  de  Peneo.  After 
telling  his  story  of  Daphne,  Bustamante  continues:  "Vn  monte 
ay  en  Tessalia,  cerca  de  vna  gran  selua,  llamada  Tempe,  lugar 
agradable  y  de  gran  passatiempo  por  ser  de  diuersas  cosas  en 
todo  estremo  vicioso ;  por  medio  de  aquel  corre  el  rio  Peneo. ' ' 
Ovid  does  not  use  the  word  Thessalia,  (he  has  Est  nemus 
Haemoniae,  I,  568)  and  Cervantes  may  have  recalled  Busta- 
mante. 

Danae — "Que  si  ay  Danaes  en  el  mundo,  Ay  pluuias  de  oro 
tambien"  (D.  Q.  I,  xxxiii,  f.  189)  ;  Bustamante  enlarges  on  a 
few  words  of  the  Metamorphoses,  IV,  611:  "Acrisio,  viendo  la 
estremada  hermosura  de  Danae,  su  hija,  y  temiendo  que  no  peli- 
grasse  su  virginidad,  la  encerro  en  vna  torre,  donde  la  hazia 
guardar  con  gran  vigilancia.  Sabiendo  esto  Jupiter,  estando 
muy  enamorado  desta  donzella,  para  cumplir  con  ella  su  desseo 
baxo  desde  el  cielo,  dexada  toda  su  magestad :  y  pusose  sobre  esta 
torre,  y  por  vn  resquicio,  o  resquebradura  della  tornada  lluuia, 
o  granos  de  oro,  se  dexo  caer  en  las  faldas  de  Danae :  y  alii 


186  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

tornado  a  su  figura  dormio  con  ella,  y  la  dexo  preiiada  de  Perseo, ' ' 
etc.  (f.  65.) 

Danao — ".  .  .  .  las  hermanas  que  trabajan  tanto"  (D.Q. 
I,  xiv,  f.  54  verso)  ;  (the  forty-nine  daughters  of  Danaus  briefly 
mentioned  by  Ovid,  Met.  IV,  462-3)  ;  the  Spanish  version  gives 
the  myth  quite  fully:  "No  auia  Juno  passado  muy  adelante, 
quando  vio  quarenta  y  nueue  mugeres,  todas  hermanas,  que  a 
la  mayor  priessa  del  mundo  trabajauan  de  henchir  de  agua  con 
vnos  cubos  vn  pozo  sin  suelo  muy  profundissimo ;  y  como  esto 
no  puedan  hazer,  son  siempre  reciamente  con  diuersas  penas 
atormentadas,  porque  consintieron  en  la  maldad  de  su  padre 
Danao,"  etc.  (f.  62  verso.) 

Diana — Cf.  above  Actaeon;  "su  intencion  era  de  ser  enemiga 
mortal  del  amor  y  de  todos  los  enamorados,  por  muchas  razones 
que  a  ello  la  movian,  y  una  dellas  era  haberse  desde  su  ninez 
dedicado  a  seguir  el  exercicio  de  la  casta  Diana."  (Galatea,  IV)  ; 
"parecio  .  .  .  .  lo  que  dicen  las  antiguas  fabulas  que  parecia 
la  casta  Diana  en  los  bosques."  (Persiles,  I,  x)  ;  there  can  be 
little  doubt  that  las  antiguas  fabulas  refers  to  las  transforma- 
ciones  de  Ovidio,  in  which  Diana  appears  several  times. 

Bite — "En  las  cauernas  lobregas  de  Dite, "  (D.Q.  II,  xxxv, 
f.  136  verso,  and  lxix,  f.  263,  printed  Lite)  ;  Ovid  has:  Ignorant 
ubi  sit  negri  fera  regia  Ditis.  (Met.  IV,  438)  ;  and:  ad  inania 
magni  Regna  redit  Ditis  (510)  ;  although  Dis  is  frequently 
mentioned  in  the  classics,  the  following  passage  in  Cervantes 
reminds  of  Ovid:  "0  tu,  Radamanto,  que  conmigo  juzgas  en  las 
cauernas  lobregas  de  Lite  [Dite],  pues  sabes  todo  aquello  que 
en  los  inescrutables  hados  esta  determinado  acerca  de  boluer  en 
si  esta  donzella,  dilo  y  declaralo  luego,  porque  no  se  nos  dilate 
el  bien  que  con  su  nueua  buelta  esperamos.  A  penas  huuo  dicho 
esto  Minos,  juez,  y  compaiiero  de  Radamanto,  quando  leuan- 
tandose  en  pie  Radamanto,  dixo,"  etc.  Simultaneous  mention 
of  Minos  and  Radamanto  occurs  also  in  the  following  passage : 
"  |  Jupiter  dixo]  sabed  si  no  lo  sabeis,  que  yo  por  los  hados  me 

guio que   ciertamente   si   yo   pudiesse   mudar   los   hados, 

Eaco,  Rodamante,  y  Minos  que  son  mis  hijos,  ....  no  serian 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  187 

tan  viejos  como  son,  ni  en  tan  poco  tenidos,"  (Bustaraante,  IX)  ; 
Ovid  frequently  speaks  of  Minos. 

Eco — "En  esto,  y  en  snspirar,  y  en  llamar  a  los  Fannos,  y 
Siluanos  de  aquellos  bosques,  a  las  ninfas  de  los  rios,  a  la  dolorosa 
y  vmida  Eco,  que  le  respondiesse,  consolassen  y  escuchassen,  se 
entretenia, "  etc.  (D.  Q.  I,  xxvi,  f.  133)  ;  Bustamante  has  (III, 
f.  47  verso  ff.)  :  "Narcisso  quando  vio  que  ella  (Echo)  le  queria 
abracar,  huye  quanto  puede,  y  dize:  Antes  querria  ser  muerto 
que  tu  a  mi  llegues.  Ella  con  la  desesperacion  no  le  respondia 
nada  y  escondiose  en  la  selua  y  cubrio  su  cara  de  hojas  con  gran 
verguenca :  y  de  aquel  dia  adelante  biue  sola  en  las  cueuas ;  y 
aunque  se  veya  menospreciada  no  podia  perder  el  aficion  aunque 
perdio  el  cuerpo  por  causa  del  grande  amor.  Echo  se  fue  assi 
deshaziendose  poco  a  poco,"  etc. 

Edad  dorada  (la) — Mention  was  made  above  of  the  possible 
influence  of  Ovid's  description  of  the  Golden  Age  upon  that  of" 
Cervantes  (D.  Q.  I,  xi)  ;  the  passage  in  the  Metamorphoses,  I,  is 
without  doubt  one  of  the  earliest  sources  of  subsequent  conven- 
tional descriptions  of  pastoral  life  in  general  as  well  as  the 
stereotyped  pictures  of  the  Golden  Age. 

Egion — ".  .  .  .  y  ansi  mismo  Con  su  rueda  Egion  no  se  de- 
tenga"  (D.  Q.  I,  xiv,  f.  54  verso)  ;  Bustamante  (IV,  f.  62  verso), 
expands  the  passage  in  Ovid  as  follows:  "Yxion  andaua  vn  poco 
mas  atras  padesciendo  increible  pena,  volteando  sobre  vna  rueda 
que  nunca  sabe  cessar  de  dar  bueltas.  A  este  vuo  gran  com- 
passion Iuno,  viendo  que  por  su  causa  padescia;  porque  biuiendo 
en  el  mundo  muy  enamorado  della,  Iuno  le  hizo  cumplir  su  desseo, 
formando  de  vna  espessa  niebla  vn  bulto  a  su  similitud  y  figura 
con  el  qual  abracandose  Yxion,  creyendo  que  era  Iuno,  tuuo  que 
hazer,  de  donde  cayendo  su  simiente  en  la  tierra.  despues  se 
engendraron  los  Centauros."  This  translates  Ovid's:  Volvitur 
Ixion  et  se  sequiturque  fugitque  (IV,  461.) 

Elena- — "  (vnas  sargas  viejas  pintadas,  como  se  vsan  en  las 
aldeas;)  en  vna  dellas  estaua  pintada  de  malissima  mano  el  robo 
de  Elena,  quando  el  atreuido  huesped  se  la  lleuo  a  Menalao,  .... 
Noto  ....  que   Elena   no  yua   de  muy  mala   garm,   porque  se 


188  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

reya  a  so  capa.  y  a  lo  socarron."  (D.Q.  II,  lxxi,  f.  270  verso;  cf. 
also  D.  Q.  I,  xxv :  Helen  not  as  beautiful  as  Dulcinea ;  Ovid  tells 
the  story  of  the  abduction  of  Helen  at  length,  and  Bustamante 
makes  a  Renascence  tale  out  of  it  (XII,  f.  180  ff.)  :  "Paris  .... 
era  ydo  a  las  tierras  de  Grecia  por  vna  duena  de  gran  hermosura 
que  auia  nombre  Helena."  etc.;  (cf.  also  the  Comedia  de  Calisto 
y  Melibea,  op.  tit.;  sesto  auto.  p.  80.) 

Eliseos  compos  (los) — mentioned  several  times  by  Cervantes 
and  of  interest  in  this  connection  only  because  Bustamante  adds 
a  naive  touch  to  his  version  by  translating  such  phrases  as 
Elysiasque  domos  in  Ovid  as  "el  reyno  de  los  infiernos"  and 
"infernales  cauernas":  (the  Sibyl  says  to  Aeneas)  "yo  te 
mostrare  el  reyno  de  los  infiernos.  y  veras  donde  esta  el  alma  de 
tu  padre"  (f.  205  verso.) 

Europa — "sobre  sus  hombros.  como  a  otra  nueva  Europa.  la 
puso  en  la  seca  arena  de  la  contraria  ribera"  (Persiles,  III.  xv)  ; 
at  length  in  Ovid  {Met.  II.  833  ff.)  Bustamante  has  (f.  40  verso)  : 
"Despues  que  [Europa]  le  vio  estar  tan  quedo  caualgo  sobre  sus 
lomos.  El  toro  vase  leuantando  poco  a  poco  del  arena  y  traela 
muy  quedo  a  vna  y  otra  parte";  etc. 

Faeton — "mira  no  cayas.  que  sera  peor  tu  cayda  que  la  del 
atreuido  moco  que  quiso  regir  el  carro  del  Sol,  su  padre."  (D.  Q. 
II,  xli,  f.  155  verso)  ;  Cervantes  gives  the  names  of  two  of  the 
four  horses  of  the  sun's  chariot,  but  in  an  unrecognizable 
form:  "Bootes  and  Peritoa"  (D.  Q.  II,  xl.  f.  151)  ;  as  the  pas- 
sage is  intended  to  be  a  humorous  one.  the  names  may  have  been 
disfigured  on  purpose,  or  the  manuscript  may  have  had  o  after 
the  last  and  therefore  read:  "ni  Bootes,  ni  Peritoa,  o  como  dicen 
que  se  Hainan  los  (caballos)  del  sol."  as  though  la  Dolorida  were 
citing  from  memory.  Ovid  mentions  the  four  horses  of  the  sun 
(Met.  II.  153)  :  Interea  volucres  Pyrois.  Eous  et  Acthon,  Solis 
equi.  quartusque  Phlegon.  hinnitibus  auras  Flammiferis  implent. 
Bustamante  does  not  venture  to  give  these  names  in  a  Spanish 
form,  though  he  gives  the  whole  myth,  and  in  a  characteristic 
manner. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  189 

Fama  (la) — Dialogue  on  worldly  fame  and  the  universal 
desire  to  acquire  it  (D.Q.  II,  viii)  ;  on  Fama  cf.  Virgil,  Aeneid, 
IV,  173  ff . ;  Bustamante  gives  a  long  description  of  la  casa  de 
la  fama  (XII,  f.  181  ff.)  :  "La  casa  donde  esta  diosa  de  la  fama 
suele  habitar  es  vna  region  del  ayre  entre  el  cielo,  la  tierra,  y 
el  mar.  En  este  lugar  en  compaiiia  desta  poderosa  seiiora  que 
en  esta  su  casa  eligio  para  sy  el  mas  alto  y  eminente  assiento, 
esta  todo  la  diuersidad  de  plazeres  y  las  causas  de  sus  contrarios 
efectos.  Desde  alii  manifiesta  y  abiertamente  se  puede  ver  todo 
quanto  se  haze  en  los  cielos,  tierra  y  mar,  sin  poderse  encubrir 
ni  dexar  de  ser  manifiesto  todo  quanto  en  el  vniuerso  se  dize, 
y  se  haze  a  diestro  o  siniestro,  atras  o  adelante.  Este  vistoso  y 
agradable  alcacar  es  hueco  y  horadado  por  todas  partes :  y  en  el 
es  concedido  entrar  y  salir  a  todos  los  que  quieren  por  mill 
puertas,  que  de  cada  lado  tiene  abiertas  siempre  de  noche  y  de 
dia.  Aqui  jamas  se  halla  silencio,  ni  dexan  de  hablar  vnos  con 
otros,  contando  cosas  nueuas,  no  a  bozes,  mas  con  palabras  en 
buen  tono  dichas,  de  manera  que  los  circunstantes  las  oyan.  Aqui 
nunca  se  halla  ningun  hombre  tener  quietud  y  reposo,  sino 
siempre  en  desasosiego, "  etc.  This  classical  idea  of  the  power 
of  Fame  is  present  in  many  Renascence  disquisitions,  such  as 
that  of  Cervantes ;  the  picture  in  Ovid  was  imitated  very  closely 
by  Alonso  Nunez  de  Reinoso,  in  his  los  Amores  de  Clareo  y 
Florisea  (cap.  xxx)  :  "Habiendo  muchos  dias  que  caminabamos, 
llegamos  no  con  pequeiio  trabajo  a  la  casa  de  la  Fama,  la  cual 
esta  en  una  region  entre  el  aire  y  el  cielo  y  el  mar,  y  esta  poderosa 
diosa  vive  en  lo  mas  alto  de  nn  gran  palacio,  donde  mira  y  ve 
todas  las  cosas  que  por  el  mundo  pasan.  Y  este  su  rico  palacio 
es  hermosamente  labrado :  tiene  a  canto  mas  de  diez  mil  puertas 
abiertas  a  todas  horas  ,asi  de  dia  como  de  noche.  En  aquella  casa 
jamas  callan,  sino  siempre  hablan;  pero  esto  no  a  voces,  sino 
sosegadamente.  Los  moradores  que  alii  viven,  siempre  andan, 
y  nunca  reposan :  alii  habia  pocas  verdades,  y  gran  ligereza  en 
el  creer.  Escribianse  alii  grandes  historias,  parte  dellas  tristes, 
y  parte  muy  alegres,  pero  de  gran  gloria,  y  inmortalidad.  En- 
trando  que  entramos  en  aquella  casa,  no  nos  preguntaron  que 


190  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

buscabamos,  ni  nos  dijeron  que  fuesemos  bien  venidos,  sino 
solamente,  que  habia  de  nuevo;  y  nosotros  respondiendo  lo  que 
nos  parecio,  pasamos  adelante.  Y  entrando  por  aquellas  salas, 
palacios,  retretes  y  cuadras,  hallabamos  eosas  de  espanto,  y 
oiamos  todas  las  cosas  que  pasaban  por  el  mundo,  principalmente 
notables  y  de  grandezas  de  principes  y  de  senores,  sin  quedar 
ninguna  cosa  de  todo  el  universo  que  alii  no  se  dijese  y  se  contase, 
ora  fuese  de  mal,  ora  de  bien,  sin  quedar  ninguna  historia  que 
alii  no  se  hallase. " 

Febo — "Plega  al  cielo  que  los  jueces  que  os  quitaren  el 
premio  primero,  Febo  los  assaetee"  (D.  Q.  II,  xviii,  f.  68)  ; 
"Apenas  la  blanca  aurora  auia  dado  lugar  a  que  el  luciente  Febo 
con  el  ardor  de  sus  calientes  rayos  las  liquidas  perlas  de  sus 
cabellos  de  oro  enxugasse"  (D.  Q.  II,  xx,  f.  77  verso)  ;  many  of 
Ovid 's  pictures  of  dawn  and  rising  Phoebus  originally  must  have 
influenced  the  conventional  descriptions  which  were  inherited  by 
the  Renascence ;  Bustamante,  for  example,  has :  ' '  Entre  tanto 
que  Faeton  miraua  la  obra  de  los  carros,  el  Aurora,  que  es  el 
Alua,  abre  las  puertas  del  dia,  que  son  rubicundas,  y  llenas  de 
rosas  muy  blancas  y  coloradas ' ' ;  cf .  Apolo  above. 

Ganimedes — used  several  times  by  Cervantes  to  mean  a  beau- 
tiful boy;  cf.  Persiles,  II,  v;  III.  i;  III,  xxi;  la  Gitanilla;  el 
Amante  liberal,  et  al.  Bustamante  says:  "la  figura  del  gran 
Jupiter  mudado  en  aguila,  que  por  los  ayres  lleuaua  a  Ganimedes, 
a  quien  demasiadamente  amaua  y  subido  al  cielo  le  hizo  su  page 
de  copa"  (f.  83  and  again  f.  154.) 

Harpia — Detente,  o  arpia,  no  turbes  ni  afees  las  limpias 
mesas  de  Fineo  (Persiles,  I  xix)  ;  on  the  Harpies  see  Aeneid,  III, 
210  ff . ;  Bustamante  also  has  the  following  (f.  98  verso)  :  "Estas 
[aues]  auian  por  nombre  Harpyas,  porque  arrebatauan  y  ensuzi- 
auan  quanto  a  la  mesa  del  affligido  y  vie  jo  rey  (Fineo)  se  ponia, " 
etc. 

Hector — "las  desgracias  de  Ector  (D.Q.  I,  xlvii,  f.  290)  ;  cf. 
Aquiles  above;  "aunque  vengamos  por  linea  recta  de  varon  en 
varon  del  mismo  Hector  el  Troyano,  no  dexaran  de  echarnos  vn 
vos  nuestras  senoras"    (D.Q.   II,  xl,  f.   152  verso.)      As  with 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  191 

Achilles,  the  chief  sources  for  Hector's  story  were  Homer,  Virgil, 
chronicles  of  Troy,  etc.  The  Metamorphoses  and  other  works  of 
Ovid  also  speak  of  him  at  length. 

Hercules — "dio  a  palos  tras  los  muchachos,  que  fue  .  .  .  . 
otro  cortar  las  cabezas  de  la  serpiente"  {La  ilustre  fregona) ; 
"de  cada  cabeza  cortada  de  la  hidra  que  mato  Hercules  habian 
nacido  otras  siete"  {Ad junta  al  Parnaso)  ;  Bustamante  says  (IX, 
f.  139)  :  (Hercules  speaks)  "Tambien  venci  por  mandado  del  rey 
Erichteo  la  grande  y  venenosa  sierpe  Ydra,  que  tenia  siete 
cabecas,  y  si  algunas  destas  le  cortauan,  en  lugar  della  nascian 
otras  siete."  "Esta  tal  Casildea  pues  ....  pago  mis  buenos 
pensamientos  y  comedidos  desseos  con  hazerme  ocupar,  como  su 
madrina  a  Hercules  en  muchos  y  diuersos  peligros"  {D.  Q.  II, 
xiv,  f.  47);  cf.  Clemencin's  note;  the  labors  of  Hercules  are 
recounted  in  the  Metamorphoses  IX,  and  at  great  length  in  Busta- 
mante. ' '  dio  en  regalarle  con  muchos  y  diversos  presentes,  puesto 
que  mas  bizarros  y  de  buen  parecer  que  costosos,  entre  los  cuales 
le  envio  una  vez,  bien  asi  como  envio  la  falsa  Deyanira  la  camisa 
a  Hercules:  digo  que  le  envio  unas  camisas  ricas, "  etc.  {Persiles, 
III,  xv )  ;  Ovid  does  not  call  Deianira  falsa,  since  she  involun- 
tarily caused  the  death  of  Hercules;  Ovid's  words  are:  "quid 
tradat  nescia,  Met.  IX,  155.  Perhaps  Cervantes  got  his  idea  from 
Bustamante :  "  Al  fin  acordandose  de  la  venenosa  camisa  que 
Nesso  le  auia  dado,  haziendole  creer  que  tenia  fuerca  amatoria, 
con  ella  se  hallo  muy  contenta,  paresciendole  que  con  embiar 
aquella  a  Hercules,  quedaria  muy  vengada  de  Yole"  (f.  137 
verso. ) 

Hero  y  Leandro — "No  valen  en  nuestros  dias  Las  antiguas 
bizarrias  De  Heros  ni  de  Leandros,  y  valen  dos  Alejandros  Mas 
que  doscientos  Macias."  {La  casa  de  los  celos.)  Cf.  epistles 
XVIII  and  XIX  of  the  Heroides. 

Icarus — "Yo  vengo  a  ser  perfecta  semejanza  De  aquel 
mancebo  que  de  Creta  el  suelo  Dejo,  y  contrario  de  su  padre  al 
celo,  A  la  region  del  cielo  se  abalanza."  {La  Entretenida.)  At 
length  in  Met.  VIII,  195  ff. 


192  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Laberinto — "no  esta  segura  ninguna  [donzella],  aunque  la 
oeulte,  y  cierre  otro  nueuo  laberinto  como  el  de  Creta"  (D.  Q.  I, 
xi,  1  39  verso)  ;  "la  snma  discrecion  suya  habia  de  ser  el  hilo 
que  la  sacase  de  cualquier  laberinto"  (Persiles,  II,  xxi;  also  I, 
xxiii)  ;  cf.  Teseo  below;  Met.  VIII,  155  ff.,  and  Ars  Amat.  II, 
24  ff.  Bustamante  describes  the  labyrinth  as  follows:  "  [Minos] 
mando  a  Dedalo  que  era  marauilloso  carpintero,  que  hiziesse  vna 
casa  de  crescida  grandeza,  muy  tenebrosa  y  de  muchas  camaras : 
por  manera  que  el  que  dentro  entrasse  no  supiesse  por  donde 
salir, "  etc. 

Lncrecia — Cervantes  mentions  Lucretia  together  with  Helen, 
as  though  they  belonged  to  the  same  class  of  legend :  Don 
Quixote  says  of  Dulcinea  "ni  la  llega  Elena,  ni  la  alcanca 
Lucrecia"  (D.  Q.  I,  xxv,  f.  128  verso)  ;  Ovid  tells  the  story  of 
Lucretia  at  length  in  the  Fasti,  II,  717  ff. 

Marte — Meaning  "war,"  already  a  commonplace  in  the  clas- 
sics, and  imitated  in  the  Renascence ;  cf .  Apolo  above ;  Don 
Quixote,  speaking  of  the  barbar's  basin  which  he  has  captured 
on  the  highway,  says :  "yo  la  aderecare  en  el  primer  lugar,  donde 
aya  herrero,  y  de  suerte  que  no  le  haga  ventaja,  ni  aim  le  llegue 
la  que  hizo  y  for  jo  el  Dios  de  las  batallas"  (D.  Q.  I,  xxi,  f.  95)  ; 
as  far  as  I  have  been  able  to  learn,  no  assertion  was  made  by  the 
ancients  that  Vulcan  forged  the  helmet  of  Mars.  Inasmuch  as 
the  god  of  fire  forged  most  of  the  weapons  and  utensils  of 
numerous  gods  and  heroes,  commentators  may  have  taken  for 
granted  that  the  god  of  war  derived  his  helmet  from  the  same 
source.  Moreover  the  statement  of  Don  Quixote  is  offhand  and 
amusing,  and  therefore  appropriate  in  his  dialogue  with  Sancho. 
Cf.  Baco  and  Venus. 

Medea — "Si  trataredes  de  .  .  .  .  crueles,  Ouidio  os  entrega- 
ra  a  Medea"  (D.Q.  Prologo.)  Cf.  Circe;  ....  "las  Medeas, 
de  quien  he  oido  decir  que  estan  las  historias  llenas"  {Col.  de  los 
perros.)  Ovid  has  much  about  Medea,  Met.  VII,  and  Heroides 
XII,  epistle  of  Medea  to  Jason. 

Medusa — "yo  os  juro  .  .  .  .  de  darosla  en  continente,  si 
bien  me  pidiessedes  vna  guedeja  de  los  cabellos  de  Medusa,  que 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  193 

eran  todos  culebras"  (D.  Q.  I,  xliii,  f.  266)  ;  "de  las  gotas  de 
la  sangre  de  la  cabeza  de  Medusa  se  habia  llenado  de  serpientes 
toda  la  Libia"  (Adjunta  al  Parnaso.)  "llego  en  fin,  y  temblan- 
dole  la  mano  descubrio  el  rostro  de  Croriano,  que  profundamente 
dormia,  y  hallo  en  el  la  propiedad  del  escudo  de  Medusa  que  la 
convirtio  en  marmol"  (Persiles,  III,  xvii)  ;  ef.  for  the  whole 
story  Met.  IV;  the  escudo  de  Medusa  no  doubt  means  the  head 
of  Medusa  which  was  fixed  upon  the  shield  of  Pallas ;  Busta- 
mante  (f.  66.)  has:  "Viendo  esto  Perseo,  muy  espantado  passo 
adelante  cubierto  de  su  cristalino  escudo  [loaned  to  him  by 
Pallas]  ;  .  .  .  .  Como  Perseo  conoscio  que  [Medusa]  dormia, 
fuese  a  ella  sin  ningun  temor  con  la  mayor  priessa  del  mundo, 
y  a  la  hora  le  corto  la  cabeca ;  y  tomandola  por  los  cabellos 
serpentinos,  subiendose  a  las  nuues  se  comenco  a  yr,"  etc.  De 
la  cava  de  Medusa  the  translation  says:  "tenia  tal  calidad,  que 
todo  hombre  o  cosa  que  veyala,  tornaua  luego  en  piedra."  And 
of  the  shield:  "Con  el  despecho  los  cabellos  de  aquella  dueiia 
que  eran  muy  ruuios,  [Palas]  mudolos  en  serpientes :  y  por  esto 
trae  Palas  el  escudo  de  diuersas  formas  de  serpientes." 

Midas — "con  mas  riquezas  que  los  Midas,  que  los  Crasos  y 
Cresos"  (Col.  de  los  Perros)  ;  "entonces  pondre  la  boca  en  las 
entraiias  de  la  tierra,  y  dare  voces  como  pudiere,  y  tendre 
esperanza  que  de  alii  salgan  las  caiias  del  rey  Midas"  (Persiles, 
I,  xiv.)  "Escondido  te  llevare  adonde  te  entregues  en  mas  oro 
que  tuvo  Midas"  (Persiles,  I,  xxii)  ;  Bustamante  gives  this  myth 
in  full:  "Midas  que  naturalmente  era  auaro,  le  demando  [a 
Baccho]  que  quanto  tocasse  con  las  manos  se  tornasse  oro"  (f. 
166  verso)  ;  and  (f.  168  verso)  :•  "lo  que  el  sirviente  auia  dicho: 
Mi  seilor  Midas  orejas  de  asno  tiene,  las  caiias  hechas  flautas  y 
picos  assi  mismo  lo  dezian :  y  assi  fue  el  secreto  descubriendose 
poco  a  poco,"  etc. 

Morfeo — "Saco  su  hisopo  el  languido  Morfeo"  (Viaje  del 
Par.,  V,)  ;  Met.  IX;  Bustamante  (f.  177)  :  "El  dios  del  suefio 
desperto  vno  de  sus  hijos  que  auia  nombre  Morfeo,"  etc. 

Orfeo — "Cantare  su  belleza,  y  su  desgracia,  con  mejor  plectro 
que  el  cantor  de  Tracia"  (D.Q.  II,  lxix,  f.  263.)     Cf.  also  El 


194  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Celoso  estremeno.  The  designation  of  Orpheus  as  the  Thracian 
singer  is  quite  common  in  the  classics ;  cf .  Virgil,  Aeneid  VI,  119  ; 
Eel.  IV,  55:  non  me  carminibus  vincet  nee  Thracius  Orpheus; 
Met.  XI,  2 :  Threicius  vates ;  Ovid  tells  the  story  of  Orpheus  and 
Eurydice  in  Met.  X,  and  of  his  death  at  the  hands  of  the  Maenads, 
Met.  XI,  Bustamante  (f.  150  ff.  and  165  ff.) 

Pactolo — "los  que  sangran  por  muchas  y  diuersas  vias  al 
dorado  Pactolo"  (D.Q.  I,  xviii,  f.  76);  Virgil,  Aeneid,  X; 
Bowie's  edition  of  D.Q.  I,  64;  Bustamante  has  (f.  167  verso)  a 
marginal  note  on  the  stream  in  which  Midas  bathes:  "  [Pactolo 
rio]  porque  tiene  las  arenas  de  oro :  Midas  se  baiio  en  aquel  agua 
de  aquel  rio  y  toda  la  fuerca  de  aquel  oro  tiro  al  rio,  y  las 
arenas  fueron  doradas,  y  de  aquel  dia  adelante  mano  oro  de 
aquel  rio." 

Partos—11 .  .  .  .  Partos,  los  Medos  que  pelean  huyendo" 
(D.  Q.  I,  xviii,  f.  76  verso)  ;  it  seems  unwarranted  in  a  humorous 
passage  to  take  Cervantes  to  task  for  attributing  to  the  Medes 
a  habit  of  the  Parthians ;  cf .  Ovid,  Ars  amat.  I,  209-10 ;  Tergaque 
Parthorum  Romanaque  pectora  dicam,  Telaque,  ab  averso  quae 
jacit  hostis  equo.    Cf.  also  Clemencin's  note. 

Pasifae — "Como  no  des  en  el  disparate  de  amar  a  un 
toro"  (Persiles,  II,  iii)  ;  cf.  laberinto  above;  Ovid  narrated  this 
story  at  length,  Ars  amat.  II. 

Penelope — "que  ninguno  la  escuchara  que  no  ...  .  tuviera 
.  .  .  .  a  su  seiiora  por  otra  nueua  y  perseguida  Penelope"  (D.  Q. 
I,  xxxiv,  f.  203)  ;  "que  piensas  hazer  con  el  imposible  que  se  te 
ofrece  en  la  conquista  desta  Porcia,  desta  Minerva,  y  desta  nueva 
Penelope"  (La  ilustre  Fregona).  Penelope  is  always  cited  in 
the  numerous  lives  of  good  women  which  appeared  in  the  late 
middle  ages  and  in  the  early  Renascence.  Some  of  them  are 
greatly  indebted  to  Ovid,  Heroides,  first  epistle,  Penelope  to 
Ulysses. 

Peneo — "la  hija  de  Peneo,  cuando  el  ligero  corredor  Apolo 
la  seguia"  (Persiles,  I,  xv)  ;  cf.  Dafne. 

Piramo  y  Tisbe — -"imitando  en  esto  a  los  padres  de  aquella 
Tisbe,  tan  decantada  de  los  Poetas"    (D.  Q.  I,  xxiv,  f.   116)  ; 


1913]  Schevill :  Ovid  and  the  'Renascence  in  Spain  195 

"soneto  a  la  fabula,  o  historia  de  Piramo  y  Tisbe"  (D.  Q.  II, 
xviii,  f.  68)  ;  "tomo  ocasion  el  amor  de  renouar  al  mundo  los 
ya  oluidados  amores  de  Piramo  y  Tisbe"  (D.Q.  II,  xix,  f.  70 
verso)  ;  cf.  appendix  iv. 

Proserpina: — "0  gran  Pluton,  .  .  .  ansi  vivas  en  paz, 
cierto  y  seguro  De  que  la  hija  de  la  sacra  Ceres  Corresponde  a 
tu  amor  con  amor  puro"  (La  Numancia,  II).  Cf.  Ovid,  Met.  V, 
and  Bustamante. 

Sella  (y  Caribdis) — ".  .  .  .  que  ya  estoy  casi  perdido,  De 
Scila  y  de  Caribdis  combatido"  (El  trato  de  Argel).  "En 
Scilas,  ni  en  Caribdis  no  repara,  Ni  en  peligro  que  el  mar  tenga 
encubierto"  (Persiles,  I,  ix)  ;  both  are  frequently  mentioned  in 
the  classics,  notably  in  Homer,  Virgil  and  Pliny ;  Ovid,  Met.  XIII ; 
Bustamante  (f.  202)  calls  them  lugares  muy  peligrosos  (enlarg- 
ing on  Ovid)  and  (f.  204  verso)  he  speaks  of  "Scylla  mudacla 
en  peligro  marine  " 

Sileno : — "aquel  buen  viejo  Sileno ;  ayo,  y  pedagogo  del  alegre 
Dios  de  la  risa,  quando  entro  en  la  ciudad  de  las  cien  puertas, 
yua  muy  a  su  plazer  cauallero  sobre  vn  muy  hermoso  asno"  (D.  Q. 
I,  xv,  f.  62  verso)  ;  Bacchus  and  his  followers  are  depicted  in 
Ars  amat.  (I,  537  ff.)  :  Ebrius  ecce  senex  pando  Silenus  asello 
Vix  sedet  et  pressus  continet  arte  jubas  (543-4)  ;  almost  the  same, 
Met.  IV,  25-27 ;  again  Met.  XI,  in  connection  with  the  story  of 
Midas,  85  ff . ;  Bustamante  speaks  of  Silenus  as  amo  de  Baco,  and 
on  f.  166  verso,  more  at  length:  "Sileno,  el  que  auia  criado  al 
dios  Baccho,  y  grande  su  amigo  y  compahero,  etc. ;  cf.  also  Cle- 
mencin's  note. 

Silvanos  (y  Faunos) — "en  llamar  a  los  Faunos  y  Siluanos 
de  aquellos  bosques  (D.  Q.  I,  xxvi,  f.  133)  ;  deities  mentioned  fre- 
quently in  the  classics;  cf.  Met.  I,  192  ff . :  rustica  numina, 
Nymphae  Faunique  Satirique  et  monticolae  Silvani ;  Bustamante 
(f.  6  verso)  :  "algunos  ay  en  el  mundo  que  son  buenos,  como 
son  Faunos,  Satiros  y  Siluanos,  y  otros  muchos  medios  dioses," 
etc. 

Sisifo — "Sisifo  venga  Con  el  peso  terrible  de  su  canto  (D.Q. 
I,  xiv,  f.  54  verso)  ;  "acabe  de  bajar  con  el  canto  de  mi  trabajo 


196  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

a  cuestas.  como  otro  nuevo  Sisifo  (Col.  de  los  Perros).  Met.  IV, 
460;  X.  44;  XIII.  26;  Bustamante  (f.  62)  translates:  "Andando 
Juno  adelante  por  aquellas  tortuosas  y  oscuras  calles,  se  hallo 
en  vn  lugar  peor  que  muerte  donde  penaua  Sisipho  subiendo 
sobre  sus  espaldas  vn  gran  peiiasco  por  vna  muy  gran  cuesta 
arriba.  donde  ya  que  queria  llegar  a  la  cumbre  se  le  cae  y 
torna  de  prineipio  a  subirle :  y  este  trabajo  passa  noches  y  dias 
por  el  maltratamiento  que  a  sus  huespedes  hazia,  matandolos 
todos  de  noche."    Cf.  Danao.  Egion.  above. 

Tantalo — "Venga,  que  es  tiempo  ya,  del  hondo  abismo.  Tan- 
talo  con  su  sed"  (D.  Q.  I,  xiv,  f.  54  verso)  ;  "Yo  se  que  sois  un 
Tantalo  en  ellas  (en  las  letras),  por  que  se  os  van  por  altas. 
y  no  las  alcanzais  de  profundas"  (El  Liceneiado  Vidriera).  "  Asi 
es  mi  pena  seme  j  ante  a  las  de  Tantalo,  que  esta  cerca  del  fruto, 
y  muere  de  hambre :  y  propincuo  al  agua,  y  perece  de  sed"  (Col. 
de  los  Perros).  In  every  ease  Ovid  has  but  a  line  on  Tantalus 
and  his  torments,  while  Bustamante  expands  (f.  62)  :  "vio 
a  Tantalo  metido  en  vn  rio  hasta  la  barba :  este  quando  queria 
beuer  del  agua  se  le  baxaua,  y  quando  queria  comer  de  vn  arbol 
de  mancanas  que  le  llegaua  a  la  f rente,  se  le  alcauan."  Met. 
IV,  457. 

Teseo — "para  que  me  halles  quando  bueluas  a  imitacion  del 
hilo  del  laberinto  de  Perseo"  (D.  Q.  I.  xxv,  f.  130  verso)  should 
read  Teseo,  and  must  be  the  printer's  error,  since  Cervantes 
speaks  of  the  thread  given  to  Theseus  elsewhere  as  la  soga  de 
Teseo  (D.  Q.  I.  xlviii.  f.  294  verso.)  The  story  of  Theseus  and 
Ariadne,  also  of  labyrinth  is  told.  Met.  VII  and  VIII;  Busta- 
mante (f.  121  verso)  translates  and  expands  :  "quando  Teseo 
vuo  de  entrar  en  el  laberinto  donde  estaua  aquel  terrible  animal 
para  que  lo  comiesse,  el.  por  consejo  de  la  Ariadna  y  de  otra 
hermana  suya  llamada  Fedra  se  libro:  ....  Dedalo  le  dio  vna 
maca  con  tres  hudos  de  hierro.  colgando  de  vnas  cadenas.  y 
tres  pelotas  confacionadas  de  cerote,  y  otras  cosas.  y  vn  hilo  de 
oro :  y  most  role  la  manera  como  auia  de  vsar  de  todo,  y  man  dole 
que  no  saliesse  hasta  la  noche,"  etc. 

Ticio — "Ticio  traya  su  buytre"  (D.Q.  I,  xiv.  f.  54  verso). 
Bustamante  again  adds  to  the  original   (f.  62)  :  "hallo  tendido 


1913]  ScheviU:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  197 

en  la  tierra  a  Tycio:  el  qual  ocupaua  nueue  yugadas  de  bueyes, 
y  vn  muy  gran  buytre  sobre  el,  que  siempre  le  estaua  comiendo 
las  entrafias :  en  pena  de  auerse  enamorado  de  Latona,  madre  de 
Apolo,  el  qual  quando  lo  supo  eon  sus  saetas  le  hirio,  y  despues 
lleuo  al  infierno  donde  por  siempre  padesce. ' '  On  two  occasions, 
Met.  IV,  457  ff.,  X,  41  ff.,  Ovid  mentions  the  torments  of  Tityos, 
Tantalus,  Sisyphus,  Ixion  and  the  daughters  of  Danaus.  As 
they  are  spoken  of  together,  and  are  identical  with  the  five  refer- 
ences in  Cervantes,  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  latter  had  his 
Metamorphoses  before  him  when  he  wrote  his  passage  in  Don 
Quixote. 

Ulises — "Puede  mostrar  las  astucias  de  Vlixes"  (D.Q.  I 
xlvii,  f.  290)  ;  "al  famoso  griego,  llamado  Ulises,  le  dieron 
renombre  de  prudente,  por  solo  haber  andado  muchas  tierras,  y 
comunicado  con  diversas  gentes  y  varias  naciones"  (Col.  de  los 
Perros).  Chief  sources,  Homer,  Virgil  and  Ovid;  cf.  Met.,  whole 
of  XIII,  and  Heroides,  first  epistle. 

Vellocino — "No  fue  del  vellocino  a  la  Jornada  Argos  tan 
bien  compuesta  y  tan  pomposa,  Ni  de  tantas  riquezas  adornada" 
(Viaje  del  Par,  I).  At  length  in  Fasti,  III,  851  ff. ;  cf.  Met.  VII 
(de  Frixio  y  Helle)  ;  Bustamante  expands  the  original  (f.  97)  : 
"  [Neifile]  les  habla  y  da  vn  don  de  innumerable  riqueza,  que 
fue  el  carnero  del  vellocino  de  oro,  tan  nombrado  y  alabado 
despues  en  el  mundo.  .  .  .  Frixio.  .  .  .  luego  consagro  el  car- 
nero al  Dios  Marte.  .  .  .  Y  tomandole  luego  le  puso  sobre  vn 
acopado  y  muy  hermoso  arbol, "  etc.  Then  follows  the  story  of 
Jason  and  the  Argo's  quest  of  the  golden  fleece,  all  in  Busta- 
mante's  manner. 

Venus — "llevados  de  la  hermosura  de  su  rostro  dicen  que 
le  compararon  a  Venus"  (La  Espanola  inglesa) .  "[redes]  mas 
fuertes  que  aquella  con  que  el  zeloso  dios  de  los  herreros  enredo 
a  Venus  y  a  Marte  (D.  Q.  II,  lviii,  f.  221  verso)  ;  this  story  has 
been  treated  above;  "No  me  puedo  persuadir  ....  que  entre 
los  que  van  por  el  mar  navegando  puedan  entremeterse  las 
blanduras  de  Venus,  ni  los  apetitos  de  su  torpe  hi  jo"  (Persiles, 
I.  xviii).    "Yo  apostare  que  la  diosa  Venus,  como  en  los  tiempos 


198  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

pasados,  vuelve  a  esta  ciudad  a  ver  las  reliquias  de  su  querido 
Eneas"  (Persiles,  IV,  iii).  Cervantes  thus  uses  the  name  of 
Venus  in  every  conventional  classic  way:  either  for  beauty,  or 
love,  or  as  the  mother  of  Aeneas  and  of  Cupid. 

Yulcano — See  above:  Marte,  Venus;  often  referred  to  by 
Cervantes. 

A  complete  list  of  all  classical  allusions  in  Cervantes  would 
fill  many  pages;  even  as  it  is,  I  may  have  given  too  many,  and 
included  much  that  seems  commonplace.  But  my  object  has  been 
to  show  that  Cervantes,  like  innumerable  predecessors  and  con- 
temporaries, notably  in  the  field  of  fiction,  is  almost  incapable 
of  penning  a  page  of  prose  or  a  stanza  of  verse  without  some 
reference  to  a  mythological  personage.  Of  historical  and  semi- 
historical  characters  I  have  said  little  here  because  I  hope  to 
come  back  to  them  some  other  time.  Nor  is  all  that  has  been 
given  evidence  of  classical  learning  or  even  of  first-hand  informa- 
tion on  the  part  of  Cervantes ;  whether  he  took  his  frequent 
allusions  to  mythological  characters  and  episodes  from  Ovid  or 
from  another,  whether  he  had  learned  about  them  at  school 
through  some  Latin  text  or  read  of  them  at  leisure  in  a  Spanish 
version  in  his  later  years  is  unimportant,  but  it  is  certain  that 
he  merely  continued  the  manner  of  tradition  in  fiction.  His 
classical  reminiscences  were  with  him  as  they  had  been  with  other 
romancers  a  concession  to  his  age  which  devoured  the  classics 
in  a  popularized  form,  and  during  which,  as  Quevedo  said  later, 
the  ancients  were  read  even  en  la  caballeriza. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain 


IV 

General  Indebtedness  to  Ovid  of  the  Siglo  de  Oro 

Various  Types  op  Prose  Narrative:  Lope  de  Vega,  Ovid  and 

the  Drama;  Renascence  Poetry  and  the 

Ovidian  Inheritance 

1 

VARIOUS  TYPES  OF  PROSE  NARRATIVE 

It  was  at  times  difficult  in  my  analysis  of  Ovid's  influence 
in  previous  chapters  to  present  separately  deliberate  imitation 
of  his  works,  direct  allusion  to  his  characters,  in  short,  academic 
reminiscences  on  the  one  hand,  and  that  evasive,  less  tangible 
indebtedness  to  the  Ovidian  inheritance  on  the  other.  In  com- 
ing now  to  my  last  chapters  which  are  to  have  the  character  of  a 
resume,  I  shall  attempt  to  confine  myself  to  striking  examples, 
showing  how  various  types  of  prose  narrative,  the  drama  and 
certain  verse  of  the  sixteenth  and  early  seventeenth  centuries 
reflect  those  elements  of  literary  culture  which  are  either  based 
on  the  direct  study  of  Ovid  or  were  due  to  the  vitality  and  force 
of  the  Ovidian  tradition.  The  best  examples  generally  reveal 
both  kinds  of  derivation ;  this  can  be  made  clear  by  going  back 
for  a  moment  to  that  excellent  specimen  of  the  Ovidian  tale, 
the  Historic/,  de  dos  Amantes,  by  Eneas  Silvio  Piccolomini ;  and 
if  this  little  romance  is  again  mentioned  here  it  is  only  because 
in  its  Spanish  garb,  first  printed  in  Salamanca  in  1496  (and 
reprinted  Sevilla  1512)  it  belongs  fitly  to  Spanish  literature 
and  may  begin  a  resume  of  the  golden  century.  No  humanistic 
work  of  the  early  Renascence  is  filled  with  more  classical  remin- 
iscences; here  may  be  found  side  by  side  and  on  almost  every 
page  references  to  the  mythology  of  the  ancients  (chiefly  Ovid, 
as  can  be  seen  by  referring  to  a  previous  chapter),  legends  from 


200  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

pseudo-classical  sources,  and  allusions  to  characters  of  history 
and  fiction.  The  very  names  of  the  main  personages  betray  the 
author's  reading:  Lucretia,  Euryalus,  Nisus,  Menelaus,  Sosias 
and  the  like.  It  would  be  idle  to  give  more  examples;  enough 
has  already  been  stated  to  indicate  how  the  academic  character 
of  this  tale  pointed  the  way  for  subsequent  fiction.  During 
the  whole  sixteenth  century  the  fabric  of  most  romances  is  shot 
through  with  humanistic  influence  due  to  absorption  of  the 
classic  heritage. 

A  work  of  great  importance,  chiefly  because  of  its  striking 
influence  on  the  Persiles  of  Cervantes,  is  the  Clareo  y  Florisea 
by  Nuiiez  de  Reinoso  (first  printed  in  Venice,  1552).  I  have 
had  occasion  before  to  speak  briefly  of  the  testimony  which 
Reinoso  bears  to  the  prestige  of  Ovid  in  matters  of  love,159  notably 
the  authority  of  his  Ars  amatoria.  In  addition,  his  story  of  love 
and  adventure  is  replete  with  classical  features,  and  not  only 
those  which  naturally  came  to  it  from  its  source,  the  Elitophon 
and  Leukippe  of  Achilles  Tatius,  and  which  survived  in  the 
course  of  its  various  rifacimenti  in  Italian  and  Spanish,  but 
many  which  were  incorporated  at  the  time  of  the  Renascence. 
How  he  made  use  of  Ovid's  picture  of  the  House  of  Fame  was 
demonstrated  in  the  last  chapter.160  There  can  be  no  doubt  that 
Reinoso  also  had  the  Metamorphoses  in  mind  when  he  speaks  of 
"una  casa,  en  la  cual  estaba  toda  la  historia  de  la  sin  ventura 
y  misera  Filomena  pintada,  viendose  en  aquella  tela  (la  cual 
Filomena  habia  labrado)  la  fuerza  que  Tereo  le  habia  fecho,  y 
como  la  mostraba  a  Progne,  su  hermana.  la  cual  estaba  triste  y 
airada  contra  el  marido,  y  como  despues  le  ponian  las  dos  her- 
manas  en  la  mesa  la  cabeza  y  manos  del  muerto  hi  jo,  y  el  las 
seguia  con  la  espada  desnuda,  y  a  la  fin  todos  se  convertian  en 
pajaros"  (Cap.  VII).  Further  reminiscences  of  Ovid's  material 
and  manner  can  be  found  in  Isea's  embroidery  of  the  death  of 
Hero  and  Leander,  the  sacrifice  of  Iphigenia,  the  love  of  Phaedra 
for  Hippolytus,  the  lamentation  of  Demophon  for  Phyllis  (Cap. 

159  Cf.  above,  pp.  96,  100. 

i6o  in  a  dedicatory  letter  to  D.  Juan  Hurtado  de  Mendoza,  Reinoso 
also  admits  having  imitated  "a  Ovidio  en  los  libros  de  Tristibus." 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  201 

IX)  ;  and  the  mention  of  "la  mesa  de  Tantalo,  que  annqne  me 
hallaba  cerca  de  las  aguas,  no  me  era  licito  gustallas,  ni  concedido 
bebellas"  (Cap.  XIII),  "Aquiles  metido  entre  las  monjas" 
(Cap.  XIV),  is  a  small  portion  of  a  long  list  that  could  be  made 
of  a  similar  character. 

A  study  of  the  romances  of  chivalry  yields  on  the  whole  only 
negative  results  so  far  as  my  subject  is  concerned,  for  their 
indebtedness  to  the  ancients  is  practically  a  negligible  quantity. 
This  assertion,  however,  requires  some  qualification,  or,  at  least, 
some  explanation.  Romances  of  chivalry  can  for  our  purpose  be 
divided  into  two  kinds,  those  which  were  conceived  at  an  early 
date  as  purely  mediaeval  works  of  the  age  of  feudalism,  and  those 
which  were  patterned  after  them,  but  were  written  when  the 
revival  of  antiquity  had  already  affected  the  world's  culture. 
The  first  class  of  romances  was  carried  upon  a  current  which 
flowed  out  of  mediaevalism  in  its  purest  form,  in  which  even  such 
semi-academic  narratives  as  the  Cronica  Troy  ana,  or  the  Libro 
de  Alixandre,  dealing  with  classic  subjects,  generally  drew  from 
pseudo-classic  sources,  thus  in  no  sense  giving  a  faithful  pic- 
ture of  ancient  times.  This  class  had  already  been  started  on  its 
long  career  when  classical  literature  began  to  be  studied  and 
better  understood,  and  as  a  mediaeval  production  it  remained 
practically  unaffected  by  humanistic  learning.  Take,  for  ex- 
ample, the  Spanish  Tristan  de  Leonis,  printed  1501,  of  which 
there  is  now  an  excellent  reprint  available,161  and  of  which  we 
may  suppose  a  much  earlier  mediaeval  version.  This  romance 
does  not  seem  to  show,  as  far  as  I  am  aware,  any  influence  of 
humanistic  culture  whatsoever.162  The  form  of  proper  names, 
which  is  so  often  a  fair  criterion,  remains  strictly  Breton  or 

ioi  Libro  del  esforqado  Cauallero  Don  Tristan  de  Leonis  y  de  sus  grandes 
fechos  en  armas  (Valladolid,  1501),  Sociedad  de  Bibliofilos  madrileftos, 
Madrid,  1912,  edited  by  D.  Adolf o  Bonilla  y  San  Martin  with  a  very 
comprehensive  introduction;  cf.  also  G.  T.  Northup,  "The  Italian  Origin  of 
the  Spanish  Prose  Tristram  Versions, ' '  in  The  Romanic  Review,  III,  2,  3, 
pp.  194  ff. 

162  The  names  of  Priam  and  Hecuba,  p.  378,  do  not  indicate  any 
indebtedness  to  the  classics,  as  the  source  of  the  references  was  no 
doubt  mediaeval  literature;  for  reminiscences  from  the  classics  in  later 
romances  of  chivalry,  cf.  Clemencin,  Don  Quixote,  I,  ch.  49,  note  28. 


202  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

northern:  not  one  has  a  genuinely  classical  flavor  as  is  so  often 
the  case  in  the  Renascence  romance  of  chivalry.  One  is  especially 
impressed  by  the  difference  between  the  Tristan  and  humanistic 
romances  in  certain  episodes  in  which  the  latter  never  failed  to 
copy  their  ancient  models.  When  one  examines,  for  instance, 
the  descriptions  of  storms  at  sea,  which  sixteenth  century  writers 
frequently  contain,  their  similarity  of  phrasing  is  evident  at  once : 
dark  clouds  obscure  the  sky,  black  night  shuts  in  on  the  wan- 
derers, the  cordage  creaks,  the  men  shout,  the  orders  are  not 
understood  in  the  din,  the  ship  now  touches  the  sands  of  the 
bottom,  now  rides  so  high  as  to  reach  the  clouds,  thunder  and 
lightning  play  their  parts.163  These  writers  either  copied  from 
each  other  or  they  imitated  Ovid  or  Virgil  just  as  the  latter 
had  followed  the  Odyssey.  At  all  events,  the  classical  sequence 
is  complete.  But  where  the  Tristan  has  an  opportunity  to  give 
us  the  traditional  storm  we  simply  find  "tomoles  vna  tormenta 
en  la  mar,  la  qual  les  duro  quinze  dias,  y  houieron  por  fuer^a 
de  correr  en  popa,  y  el  viento  era  tan  fuerte,  quel  maste  y  los 
timones  y  velas  dio  con  todo  en  el  fondo,  y  la  tormenta  los  hecho 
en  la  Ysla  del  Gigante. ' ' 

Again,  if  we  may  take  the  Amadis  to  be  a  free  imitation  of 
the  romances  of  the  Breton  cycle,  chiefly  the  Tristan  and  the 
Lancelot  stories,  the  early  mediaeval  version  of  that  most  famous 
of  all  Peninsular  romances  of  chivalry  probably  showed  little 
or  no  direct  indebtedness  to  the  classics.  This  is  practically  so, 
even  in  Montalvo's  refurbished  version.  It  is  my  conviction 
that  a  test  of  Montalvo  's  contribution  to  the  early  Amadis  would 
bring  out  more  humanistic  traits,  such  as  imitations  of  the  novela 
sentimental,™*  or  erotic  features  of  the  Ovidian  tale  of  the  early 

163  Cf.  a  passage  in  Gil  Polo's  Diana,  in  Origenes,  II,  p.  346;  Villalon 's 
El  Crotalon,  p.  173;  Eojas,  el  Viaje  entretenido,  p.  66  of  vol.  I,  5th  edit. 
(Madrid,  1793);  Lope  de  Vega,  El  Peregrino  en  su  patria,  book  iv;  also 
n.  143  above  and  Studies  in  Cervantes  III,  p.  536. 

164  Cf.,  for  example,  Amadis,  II,  1,  "Carta  que  la  Sefiora  Oriana  envia 
a  su  amante  Amadis":  Mi  rabiosa  queja,  acompanada  de  sobrada  razon,  da 
lugar  a  que  la  flaca  mano  declare  lo  que  el  triste  corazon  encobrir  no  puede 
contra  vos  el  falso  y  desleal  caballero  Amadis  de  Gaula;  pues  ya  es 
conocida  la  deslealtad  y  poca  firmeza  que  contra  mi,  la  mas  desdichada 
y  menguada  de  ventura  sobre  todas  las  del  mundo,  habeis  mostrado, 
mudando   vuestro    querer   de   mi   que    sobre   todas   las   cosas   vos    araaba, 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  203 

Renascence,  reminiscences  of  the  pastoral  tone165  of  certain  Ital- 
ian works,  borrowing  of  phrases  and  sentiments  from  contem- 
porary fiction,  or  from  the  lyric  poets,  and  finally,  slight  indebted- 
ness to  well-known  episodes  of  the  classics.  One  of  the  latter 
seems  to  be  the  single  combat  between  Amadis  and  Ardan  Canileo 
(II,  xviii),  which  takes  place  near  the  sea  while  the  ladies  look 
on,  and  which  reminds  of  the  single  combat  between  Hector  and 
Achilles  (Iliad  xxii),  as  well  as  that  between  Aeneas  and  Turnus 
(Aeneid  XII).  Yet  this  scene  may  be  from  pseudo-classic 
sources  as  well  as  the  reference  to  Hector's  prowess  in  battle 
against  the  Greeks  (III,  v),  which  has  the  manner  of  the  medi- 
aeval narratives.  Finally,  Montalvo's  manner  of  describing  the 
hosts  of  battle  ( IV,  xxviii ) ,  reminds  of  the  classical  epics :  ' '  Pues 
venida  el  alba,  las  trompetas  sonaron,  e  tan  claros  se  oian  los 
unos  a  los  otros  como  si  juntos  estoviesen.  La  gente  se  comenzo 
a  armar  e  a  ensillar  sus  caballos,  e  por  las  tiendas  a  oir  misas,  e 

poniendole  en  aquella  que,  segun  su  edad,  para  la  amar  ni  conoscer 
su  discrecion  basta;  e  pues  otra  venganza  mi  sojuzgado  corazon  tomar  no 
puede,  quiero  todo  el  sobrado  y  mal  empleado  amor  que  en  vos  tenia 
apartarlo;  .  .  .  .  O  que  mal  emplee  e  sojuzgue  mi  corazon,  que  en  pago 
de  mis  sospiros  e  pasiones,  burlada  y  desechada  fuese!  E  pues  este  engano 
es  ya  manifiesto,  no  parczcais  ante  mi  ni  en  parte  donde  yo  sea;  porque 
sed  cierto  que  el  muy  encendido  amor  que  vos  habia  es  tornado,  por  vuestro 
merescimiento,  en  muy  rabiosa  e  cruel  sana  .  ...  id  a  enganar  otra  cativa 
muger  como  yo  .  .  .  .  sin  vos  ver,  planire  con  mis  lagrimas  mi  desastrada 
ventura  e  con  ellas  dare  fin  a  mi  vida,  aeabando  mi  triste  planto. — This 
is  not  the  language  of  an  old  romance,  but  the  stereotyped  phraseology 
of  the  fifteenth  century  amatory  literature.  Nor  can  there  be  any  doubt 
that  herein,  too,  the  letters  of  the  Heroides  exerted  a  noticeable  amount 
of  influence.  It  seems  to  me  that  the  description  of  the  effect  of  the 
letter  on  Amadis  is  also  a  later  addition  (cap.  2);  cf.  such  verbiage  as 
"ser  llegado  a  la  cruel  muerte,"  "ser  hecho  pedazos  su  corazon," 
'  'maldecia  a  si  e  a  su  ventura, "  "  su  cuita  fue  tan  sin  medida,  que  por 
una  pieza  estuvo  amortecido. "  "E  tornado  a  tomar  la  carta  dijo:  Vos 
sois  la  causa  de  la  mi  dolorosa  fin  etc. ' ' 

165  The  tone  of  the  later  pastoral  romances  is  foreshadowed  in  a 
passage  like  the  following:  Amadis  (Beltenebros)  is  doing  penance;  todas 
las  mas  noches  albergaba  debajo  de  unos  muy  espesos  arboles  ....  por 
fazer  su  duelo  y  llorar.  .  .  .  E  acordandosele  la  lealtad  que  siempre  con 
su  senora  Oriana  toviera  ....  fizo  esta  cancion. — Then  follows  a  poem 
which  seems  to  me  characteristic  of  Montalvo's  time:  Pues  habiendo 
hecho  esta  cancion  que  ois,  le  avino  que  estando  una  noche  debajo  de 
aquellos  arboles,  como  solia,  faciendo  gran  duelo,  llorando  muy  fieramente, 
pasada  ya  gran  parte  de  la  noche,  oyo  taner  unos  instrumentos  alii  cerca 
muy  dulcemente;  .  .  .  .  e  levantandose  de  donde  estaba,  fuese  encobierto 
por  saber  que  seria,  e  vio  dos  doncellas  cabe  la  fuente. — The  melancholy 
singing  of  solitary  shepherds,  and  the  appearance  of  unexpected  intruders 
are  common  occurrences  in  the  pastoral  romances. 


204  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

cabalgar  todos  a  se  ir  para  sus  senas.  Quien  seria  aquel  de  tal 
sentido  e  memoria,  que  puesto  caso  que  lo  viese  a  mucho  en  ello 
metiese  todas  sus  mientes,  que  podiese  contar  ni  escrebir  las 
armas  e  caballos  con  sus  devisas  e  caballeros  que  alii  juntos  eran? 
Por  cierto  mucho  loco  seria  e  fuera  de  todo  saber  el  hombre  que 
aqueste  pensamiento  en  si  tomase ;  e  por  esto,  dejando  lo  general, 
algo  de  lo  particular  se  dira  aqui,  e  comenzaremos  por  el  emper- 
ador  de  Roma,  que  era  valiente  de  cuerpo  e  fuerza,  e  asaz  buen 
caballero,  si  su  gran  soberbia  e  poca  discrecion  no  gela  gastase. 
Este  se  armo  de  unas  armas  negras,  etc."  Cervantes  may  have 
had  in  mind  just  such  a  passage  where  Don  Quixote  describes  to 
Sancho  the  leaders  of  the  terrific  combat  in  Don  Quixote  I,  xviii.166 
for  similar  episodes  occur  elsewhere  in  Renascence  romances  of 
chivalry  and  may  perhaps  indicate  the  influence  of  classic  narra- 
tive. On  the  other  hand,  the  allusions  to  ' '  aquel  f uerte  Hercules, 
aquel  valiente  Sanson,  aquel  sabio  Virgilio,  el  rey  Salomon" 
(II,  v),  have  the  earmarks  of  mediaeval,  ante-humanistic  learning. 
To  come  to  my  second  class,  a  good  example  of  the  romances 
of  chivalry  which  were  written  after  the  culture  of  the  Rena- 
scence had  spread  over  southern  Europe  is  the  Palmeirim  de 
Inglaterra  by  Francisco  de  Moraes.167  Here  all  feudal  and  me- 
diaeval traits  appear  only  as  imitations  of  numerous  romances 
which  the  author  used  as  models.  The  contemporary  or  human- 
istic features,  such  as  they  are,  are  genuine,  and  derive  from 
direct  acquaintance  with  the  ancients;  they  reveal  the  manner 
of  the  fifteenth  and  sixteenth  centuries.  This  may  be  illustrated 
by  the  following  page  which  Moraes  penned  with  only  the  Meta- 
morphoses in  mind ;  it  deals  with  some  paintings  to  be  found  in 
o  aposento  dos  tristes  (I,  vi)  :  "A  entrada  tao  escura  e  medonha, 
que  punha  espanto  a  quern  a  via:  as  salas,  camaras,  e  casas  de 
cima,  assim  as  paredes,  como  o  alto  dellas,  cheias  d'  um  debuxo 
negro  de  historias  antigas  e  namoradas,  as  mais  tristes,  que  se 
podiam  achar  pera  fazer  descontente  o  lugar  em  que  se  punham. 

166  Of.  Clemencin  's  edition  of  Don  Quixote,  note  43. 

167  Obras  de  Francisco  de  Moraes,  Lisbon,  1852,  3  vols.;  cf.  also  W.  E. 
Purser,  Palmerin  of  England  (Dublin  and  London,  1904). 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  205 

Alii  a  historia  de  Ero  e  Leandro  se  achava :  o  desastrado  fim  de 
Tisbe  e  Piramo  se  via:  e  None  mil  magoas  ao  pe  d'um  crescido 
alemo  comsigo  so  passava :  Filomena  tambem  nos  louvores  que 
fazia  mostrava  sua  pena.  Dido,  com  a  espada  de  Eneas  metida 
polo  coracao,  estava  envolta  no  sen  proprio  sangue,  tao  natural  e 
fresco,  que  parecia  que  aquella  fora  a  derradeira  hora  em  que 
se  matara.  Medea,  Progne,  Ariadna,  Fedra,  Pasiphe,  todas  alii 
estavam  cada  uma  pintada  segundo  a  maneira  de  sua  vida.  Orfeo 
envolto  no  fogo  infernal  com  sua  arpa  nas  maos  parecia  que  se 
queixava.  Alii  Acteon  [estava]  tornado  cervo,  clespedacado  dos 
seus  proprios  caes.  Narcisso  alii  se  via  com  outros  muitos  na- 
morados,  que  relatados  aqui  seria  nunca  acabar, ' '  etc. 

What  has  been  stated  about  the  romances  of  chivalry  applies 
chiefly  to  the  large  body  of  Spanish  caballerias;  in  Italy  the 
authors  of  the  long  romances,  especially  those  in  verse,  show  more 
originality  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  their  works  are  more  tinged 
with  the  classics  because  they  were  nearer  the  humanistic  foun- 
tains of  Renascence  culture.  The  spirit  which  they  must  have 
imbibed  in  their  education  could  with  difficulty  have  been 
excluded  from  their  writings.  References  to  the  classics,  notably 
to  episodes  of  mythology,  are  therefore  very  common.  Boiardo, 
Orlando  Innamorato,  for  example,  has  imitated  numerous  pas- 
sages of  the  Metamorphoses,  and  many  borrowings  and  imita- 
tions in  the  Orlando  Furioso,  of  Ariosto,  could  be  pointed  out, 
such  as  Roger  delivering  Angelica  who  had  been  chained  to 
the  shore  to  become  the  prey  of  some  sea-monster;  this  is  evi- 
dently based  on  the  story  of  Perseus  and  Andromeda. 

The  stereotyped  habit  which  many  authors  of  romances  of 
chivalry  had  of  claiming  a  learned  source  for  their  work,  Greek, 
Latin  or  Oriental,  is  not  wholly  due  to  the  influence  of  humanistic 
learning :  it  can  be  found  early  in  the  Middle  Ages.168  The  claim 
was  merely  a  scholastic  remnant,  a  pseudo-classical  touch  intended 
to  give  a  work  of  the  imagination  the  appearance  of  authority. 
Even  the  Trouveres  made  such  a  claim,  although  their  work  was 

les  Joseph  Bedier:  Les  Fabliaux  2me  edition  (Paris,  1895),  p.  129: 
Volontiers  les  jongleurs  invoquent,  inventent  au  besoin,  des  livres  mys- 
terieux  ou  ils  ont.  assurent-ils,  puise  leur  matiere. 


206  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

of  a  purely  popular  character.  The  classics  are,  therefore,  prac- 
tically a  negligible  quantity  in  studying  the  sources  of  the  Spanish 
romances  of  chivalry. 
j  The  pastoral  novel,  by  way  of  contrast,  shows  a  great  deal  of 
humanistic  influence,  partly  because  it  originally  sprang  from  an 
academic  atmosphere,  and  partly  because  throughout  its  career  it 
continued  to  borrow  from  the  ancients.  The  well-known  proto- 
type, Sannazaro's  Arcadia,  betrays  indebtedness  to  the  Metamor- 
phoses,160 and  the  tradition  thus  begun  kept  subsequent  authors  of 
pastoral  novels  in  touch  with  the  best-known  ancient  authorities. 
Among  them,  of  course,  was  Ovid.  Naturally  enough,  writers  like 
iMontemayor,  Perez,  Gil  Polo,  Luis  Galvez  de  Montalvo,  Cervan- 
tes, Lope  and  others  kept  up  the  traditional  phraseology  of  love 
and  passion;  the  characters  "burn"  and  "are  consumed",  they 
"languish"  in  the  "fires  of  love",  and  they  are  "healed"  by 
"remedies  of  love";  they  "weep",  "utter  lamentations"  and 
"tear  their  hair"  (castigan  los  cabellos).  Love  is  generally  per- 
sonified as  el  dios  Amor;  letters,  which  became  a  prominent 
element  in  humanistic  fiction,  are  common  in  the  pastoral 
romances.  The  chastity  of  Daphne,  Diana  and  others,  is  made 
the  model  of  the  ostentatious  purity  of  the  pseudo-shepherdesses 
of  these  tales.  The  latinized  names  of  the  characters  themselves 
reveal  the  age  in  which  they  were  conceived ;  Diana,  Sireno,  Sel- 
vagia,  Augusta  Cesarina,  Silvano,  Cintia,  Polidora  and  scores  of 
others  give  the  personages  an  academic  color.  All  these  char- 
acters were,  no  doubt,  "aficionados  a  leer  historias  antiguas",  as 
was  Delia  in  Montemayor's  Diana,  II,  so  that  the  mention,  among 
others,  of  Venus  and  Adonis,  the  judgment  of  Paris,  Orpheus 
"que  fue  en  demanda  de  su  ninfa  Euridice,  con  el  suave  canto 
enternecia  las  furias  infernales,  suspendiendo  por  gran  espacio 
la  pena  de  los  dariados,"  Lucretia,  Penelope  and  the  like,  is  not 
I  surprising  nor  out  of  place.  In  el  Pastor  de  Filida  (1580)  a 
complete  account  is  given  of  the  life  and  labors  of  Hercules, 17A  of 

169  Cf.  La  Materia  dell'  Arcadia  del  Sannasaro,  studio  di  Francesco 
Torraca  (Citta  di  Castello,  1888);  cf.  also  Origenes,  op.  cit.,  I,  425,  467. 
In  the  Cento  novelle  antiche,  no.  43,  can  be  found  the  story  of  Narcissus. 

i™  Cf.  Edition  in  Origenes  II,  p.  435. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Eenascence  in  Spain  207 

the  story  of  Jupiter  and  Alcmene,  and  upon  a  door  is  painted 
the  fate  of  Actaeon  who  saw  Diana  "metida  en  su  fresca  y 
reservada  fuente.171 

"  A  characteristic  product  of  the  Renascence  in  Spain  is  the 
satirical  and  didactic  dialogue,  based  on  classical  models,  of  which 
the  chief  ones  were  Lucian's  Colloquies  and  Plato's  dialogues, 
chiefly  the  Republic.  Some  of  the  very  best  Spanish  examples 
are  the  works  of  Juan  Valdes,  Didlogos  de  Mer  curio  y  Car  on,  of 
Torquemada,  el  Jar  din  de  Flores  curiosas,  and  the  Coloquios 
\satiricos,  Villalon's  el  Crotalon,  and  el  Scholdstico,  the  Coloquio 
de  los  perros  by  Cervantes,  and  others.  The  purpose  of  the 
authors  of  these  dialogues  seems  to  have  been  to  touch  on  the 
most  extraordinary  range  of  subjects,  including  superstitions, 
folklore  in  general,  popular  science,  language,  literature  of  the 
past,  contemporary  authors,  historical  episodes,  manners  and 
customs  and  many  other  items  of  interest.  Naturally  an  aca- 
demic note  is  not  wanting  in  some  of  these  colloquies,  especially 
where  the  classics  play  a  part.  At  the  very  beginning  of  el  Cro- 
talon172 we  find:  "En  las  transformaciones  de  que  en  diuersos 
estados  de  hombres  y  brutos  se  escriuen  en  el  proceso  del  libro 
imita  el  auctor  al  heroico  poeta  Ouidio  en  su  libro  del  Metha- 
morphoseos :  donde  el  poeta  tinge  muchas  transformaciones  de 
vestias,  piedras  y  arboles  en  que  son  conuertidos  los  malos  en 
pago  de  sus  vicios  y  peruerso  viuir. "  This  statement,  however, 
must  not  be  taken  too  literally :  the  imitation  refers  rather  to  the 
word  transformaciones,  and,  as  is  frequently  the  case,  to  the 
transformation  of  men  taken  in  the  moral  sense.  Villalon  thus 
leads  us  to  infer  from  his  assertion  that  he  wanted  to  use  Ovid's 
name  merely  to  give  his  dialogue  a  little  more  authority.  There 
are  other  reminiscences  of  Ovid  in  his  work:  the  author  speaks 
on  one  occasion  of  el  arte  magica  and  refers  to  Cyrces,  Morganda 
and  Medea  as  "rameras  famosas  de  la  antiguedad"  (p.  159)  ;  this 

!7i  Perez  in  his  Diana  imitates  the  Metamorphoses  and  the  Fasti:  cf. 
Origenes  I,  p.  479. 

172  Edition  in  Origenes  II,  op.  cit.;  a  part  of  Villalon's  el  Scholdstico 
has  appeared  (one  volume)  in  Los  Bibliofilos  madrilenos  and  adds  to  the 
evidence  of  Villalon's  estimate  of  Ovid  (cf.  p.  112),  a  defense  of  the 
classics;  criticism  of  pagan  mythology  (p.  137  ff.) 


208  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

reminds  the  reader  of  the  dialogue  on  the  hcchicera  in  the  Colo- 
quio  de  los  perros,  where  Circe  and  Medea  are  also  mentioned. 
Indeed  there  seems  to  be  little  doubt  that  Cervantes  knew  el  Cro- 
talon  in  manuscript.173  On  another  occasion  Villalon  tells  a  story 
of  perverted  passion,  the  love  of  one  woman  for  another,  and 
el  Amor  is  reproved  by  the  tormented  victim  for  inflicting  on  her 
this  hopeless  devotion.  The  usual  comparisons  with  similar  pas- 
sions are  drawn  from  Ovid:  "Esto  parece.  Amor,  que  has  hecho 
porque  en  mi  penar  sea  a  todos  manifiesto  tu  imperio.  Porque 
avnque  Semiramis  se  enamoro  de  su  hijo  y  Mirrha  de  su  padre  y 
Pasiphe  del  toro,  ninguno  destos  amores  es  tan  loco  como  el 
mio :  pues  avn  se  suf riera  si  tuuiera  alguna  esperanca  de  effe- 
tuarse  mi  deshonestidad  y  deseo.  Pero  para  mi  locura,  no  habria 
Dedalo  que  injeniasse  dar  algun  remedio  contra  lo  que  naturaleza 
tan  firmemente  aparto  ?  Con  estas  lamentaciones  se  aflige  la  gentil 
dama  mesando  sus  dorados  cabellos  y  amortiguando  su  bello 
rostro,  vuscando  venganca  de  si  mesma  por  auer  enprendido 
empresa  sin  esperanca  de  algun  fin;"  etc.  (p.  177.)  The  oft-told 
;tale  of  the  adultery  of  Venus  and  Mars  which  appears  to  have 
pleased  Renascence  readers,  so  frequently  does  it  occur,  is  also 
referred  to  in  a  satirical  way.  After  telling  the  story  Villalon 
adds  :  "Todo  eso  es  fabula  y  fmgimiento  de  poetas  para  ocupar  sus 
versos"  (p.  132.) 

An  interesting  assertion  is  made  by  Torquemada  (p.  488)  Co- 
loquios  satiricos  in  connection  with  the  apothegm  non  bene  pro 
toto  libertas  venclitur  auro.  He  says:  "todas  [las  profesiones] 
me  parecen  tolerables  y  que  con  mayor  paciencia  se  pueden 
sufrir  los  trabajos  que  acarrean  pudiendose  passar  sin  venir  a 
perder  su  propia  libertad,  compelidos  y  apremiados  a  venderla 
por  dineros,  haciendose  esclavos  y  muchas  veces  por  muy  pocos, 
siendo  esta  libertad  tan  sin  precio  que  dice  Ovidio  della  que  no 
se  vende  bien  por  todo  el  oro  del  mundo."  This  is  another 
example  of  the  attribution  to  Ovid  of  a  saying  that  came  from 
another  source,  presumably,  because  he  expresses  a  similar  idea. 

1^3  Cf.  Menendez  y  Pelayo,  in  the  Revista  de  Arehivos,  vol.  XII,  1905, 
p.  315;  A  note  on  El  Curioso  Impertinente,  by  R.  Sehevill,  Revue  Hispanique, 
1910,  vol.  XXII,  p.  447. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  209 

Cervantes  knew  the  apothegm,  but  was  ignorant  of  its  origin. 
(D.  Q.  I,  Prol.)174 

Torqnemada,  in  general,  knew  Ovid  well  and  refers  to  him 
as  an  unquestioned  authority  in  a  manner  characteristic  of  his 
day.  Speaking  of  the  superiority  of  virtue  over  noble  birth,  an 
assertion  frequently  made  and  enlarged  by  Cervantes,  Torque- 
mada  says:  "No  dira  uno:  'soy  virtuoso  o  soy  bueno';  sino: 
'soy  de  los  godos,  o  soy  de  tal  o  de  tal  linaje,  descendiendo  de  tal 
casta  o  de  tal  parentela';  y  no  miran  lo  que  dice  Ovidio  en  el 
libro  XIII175  de  su  Metamorphoseos :  Et  genus,  et  proavos,  et 
quae  non  fecimus  ipsi,  Vix  ea  nostra  voco. "  To  which  Antonio's 
interlocutor  replies:  "Yo  no  he  estudiado  gramatica  para  enten- 
der  eso, "  which  also  shows  incidentally  that  Ovid  was  still  hold- 
ing his  own  in  the  schools.176 

Types  of  literature  which  take  their  material  from  the  life 
of  the  times  and  are  therefore  fuller  expressions  of  all  elements 
of  Renascence  society  are  logically  less  indebted  to  the  world 
of  learning.  The  author  himself  may  reveal  his  humanistic 
training  through  an  occasional  outcropping  of  classical  influence, 
but  his  work  remains  on  the  whole  popular  and  unacademic.  The 
best  examples  of  this  type  are  the  numerous  jest  books,  the  mis- 
cellaneous collections  of  anecdotes  and  sayings  which  do  not 
concern  us,  and  the  rogue  stories.  Lazarillo  de  Tormes  and  Guz- 
man de  Alfarache  have  already  been  mentioned  briefly  above; 
notably  with  regard  to  the  latter.  I  tried  to  point  out  the  influ- 
ence of  the  Ovidian  tradition  on  certain  erotic  features  which, 
though  a  little  out  of  keeping  with  the  general  conception  of  the 

174  Tt  does  not  seem  unreasonable  to  believe  that  the  apothegm  may 
have  been  confused  with  Ovid's:  plurimus  auro  Venit  honos,  Ars  amat. 
II,  278-9;  in  Villalon 's  El  Scholdstico  we  find  also:  la  libertad  (es)  vn 
bien  tan  seiialado  que  con  ningun  precjio  ny  oro  se  puede  comprar  (p.  75). 
Pietsch  has  an  interesting  contribution  to  this  subject  in  Modern  Language 
Notes  for  February,  1909;  cf.  also  Lope  de  Vega's  Cancion:  "O  libertad 
preciosa,  No  comparada  al  oro,  Ni  al  bien  mayor  de  la  espaciosa  tierra, ' ' 
etc. 

its  Met.  XIII,  vs.  140-1,  and  Origenes,  etc.  II,  op.  cit.,  p.  545. 

176  Zapata,  Miscelanea,  p.  340,  Memorial  historioco  espanol,  vol.  XI 
(Madrid,  1859)  ;  Zapata,  who  wrote  toward  the  close  of  the  sixteenth 
century,  still  rates  the  Metamorphoses  very  highly:  Ovidio  en  su  Meta- 
morfoseos  ninguna  reprehension  padece,  antes  en  ingenio,  en  invencion, 
en  disposicion  hace  a  todos  los  poetas  ventaja.  En  elocucion  Virgilio  se 
la  hace;  mas  en  las  otras  obras  Ovidio  etc. 


210  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

non-sentimental  picaresque  story,  are  nevertheless  characteristic 
of  Aleman.  His  book  reflects  the  Spanish  life  of  his  times,  but 
it  is  evident  that  he  himself  was  at  home  in  both  Italian  and 
classical  literature.  Popular  and  learned  similes  are  thus  found 
side  by  side.  Guzman  says  for  example  (I,  i,  5)  :  "por  saltar  de 
■la  sarten  cai  en  la  brasa,  di  en  Scila  huyendo  de  Caribdis." 
Sometimes  his  allusions  are  quite  effective,  as  in  the  expression  of 
the  mental  torment  of  Daraxa  (I,  i,  8)  :  "Que  dias  tan  tristes 
aquellos,  que  noches  tan  prolijas,  que  teger  y  desteger  pensa- 
mientos,  como  la  tela  de  Penelope  con  el  casto  deseo  de  su  amado 
Ulises. ' '  Again,  Aleman  loses  himself  in  his  moralizations,  when 
he  is  apt  to  be  somewhat  tedious.  Speaking  of  the  difficulties  of 
kingship  he  says:  "Pocos  le  tratan  verdad  [al  rev]  por  no  ser 
odiados ;  pocos  le  desengaiian,  ellos  saben  el  por  que  y  para  que, 
y  sabemos  todos  que  lo  hacen  por  adelantarse  y  volar  arriba,  sea 
como  fuere,  aunque  sean  las  alas  de  cera,  y  hayan  de  eaer  en  el 
mar  de  Icaro  (I,  ii,  5).  Aleman  also  speaks  of  the  much  dis- 
cussed Anteon  (Actaeon)  (II,  i,  6).  All  the  editions  which  I 
have  been  able  to  consult  spell  the  word  as  did  Cervantes.  Any 
discussion  of  the  magic  arts,  evil  women  and  their  power  over 
men  is  sure  to  refer  to  Circe  (II,  iii,  5)  :  "Dicen  de  Circes,  una 
ramera,  que  con  sus  malas  artes  volvia  en  bestias  los  hombres  con 
quien  trataba ;  cuales  convertia  en  leones,  otros  en  lobos,  jabalies, 
osos  o  sierpes,  y  en  otras  formas  de  fieras ;  pero  juntamente  con 
aquello  quedabales  vivo  y  sano  su  entendimiento  de  hombre, 
porque  a  el  no  les  tocaba.  Muy  al  reves  lo  hace  ahora  estotra 
ramera,  nuestra  ciega  voluntad,  que  dejandonos  las  formas  de 
hombres,  quedamos  con  entendimiento  de  bestias."  Many  of 
Aleman 's  manifest  reminiscences  of  the  Metamorphoses  are  in 
his  moral  disquisitions  and  make  us  infer  that  he  too  had  that 
book  in  mind  as  an  allegorical  narrative  filled  with  hidden  mean- 


177  The  Metamorphoses  continued  to  be  read  longer  than  any  other 
work  of  Ovid;  off-hand  references  to  them  are  found  frequently  in  the 
seventeenth  century.  In  El  Donado  hablador  by  Jeronimo  de  Alcala,  may 
be  found,  I,  2:  El  bueno  de  mi  amo  hacia  de  mi  mas  transformaciones 
que  un  Ovidio;  porque  unas  veces  queria  que  le  sirviese  de  soldado  para 
las  pagas,  otras  de  muchiller  para  servirle;  etc.;  I,  4  (near  close):  Oh. 
que  de  veces  perdido  el  juicio,  escribio  mas  mentiras  y  desatinos  que  en 
sus  Transformaciones  el  ingenioso  Ovidio! 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  211 


2 

LOPE  DE  VEGA  AND  OVID 

Lope  de  Vega  merits  more  than  a  chapter  on  account  of  the 
vast  bulk  of  his  work.  What  follows  may  suffice  to  give  an  idea 
of  the  range  of  his  acquaintance  with  Ovid  and  indicate  the 
extent  to  which  he  used  ideas,  episodes,  or  phrases  to  be  found 
in  the  Latin  poet.  Lope 's  education  must  have  been  excellent : 
his  information  is  astounding,  and  the  evidence  leads  one  to 
believe  that  he  read  the  classics  continuously,  and,  at  all  events, 
as  regards  the  Latin  authors,  in  the  original.  In  the  Dorotea  he 
tells  us  much  about  himself,  and  many  of  the  assertions  which  he 
makes  appear  to  be  quite  trustworthy.  He  says  (IV,  i)  :  "De 
la  edad  que  digo,  ya  sabia  yo  la  gramatica  y  no  ignoraba  la 
retorica ;  descubri  razonable  ingenio,  prontitud  y  docilidad  para 
cualquiera  ciencia ;  pero  para  lo  que  mayor  le  tenia  era  para 
versos;  de  suerte  que  los  cartapacios  de  las  liciones  me  Servian 
de  borradores  para  mis  pensamientos,  y  muchas  veces  las  escribia 
en  versos  latinos  o  castellanos.  Comence  a  juntar  libros  de  todas 
letras  y  lenguas;  que  despues  de  los  principios  de  la  griega  y 
ejercicio  grande  de  la  latina,  supe  bien  la  toscana,  y  de  la  fran- 
cesa  tuve  noticia."  This  can  be  taken  for  a  reliable  autobi- 
ographical detail,  if  we  are  guided  only  by  the  testimony  of  his 
works.  Lope's  courses  in  gramatica  at  school  doubtless  included 
a  most  thorough  study  of  Ovid,  and  while  his  numerous  classical 
references  would  be  impressive  in  themselves,  far  more  astonish- 
ing is  his  miraculous  facility  of  putting  into  verse  any  offhand 
allusion  to  the  Latin  poet  or  to  any  character  of  his  works.  I 
shall  be  obliged  to  select  my  examples  from  a  relatively  very  in- 
significant portion  of  Lope's  writings  in  order  to  keep  the  result 
within  proper  bounds :  careful  scrutiny  of  the  scores  of  folio 
volumes  which  constitute  the  works  of  Lope  de  Vega  is  beyond  the 
power  of  most  men;  we  have  other  things  to  do  while  we  are 
here;  besides 

Stat  sua  cuique  dies:  breve  et  irreparabile  tempus 
Omnibus  est  vitae. 


212  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

I  shall  therefore  try  to  demonstrate  Lope 's  manner  of  using  Ovid 
in  as  brief  a  space  as  possisble.  The  authority  of  the  Ars  amatoria 
among  lovers  is  on  several  occasions  recognized  by  Lope.  A 
passage  in  Si  no  vieran  las  mujeres  may  serve  as  an  example; 
the  emperor  says  to  Isabela : 

Estoy  tal  despues  que  os  vi, 

Que  no   pienso  ni  imagino 

Cosa  que  en  amor  no  sea; 

De  amor  son  hasta  los  libros 

Que  leo,  si  bien  soy  yo 

El  Arte  de  amar  de  Ovidio. 

He   hecho   que   mi   aposento 

Este  todo  guarnecido 

De   fabulas,  y   he   mandado 

Que  no  haya  criado  mio 

Sin  amor;  etc.— (II,  x.) 


Lope's  best  contribution  to  the  Ovidian  tradition  is  his  dra- 
matization of  an  "Ovidian  tale,"  El  Caballero  de  Olmedo.  Up 
to  the  beginning  of  the  tragedy,  which  takes  place  shortly  before 
the  close  of  the  drama,  most  of  the  precepts  of  Ovid  are  observed, 
and  though  a  certain  amount  of  indebtedness  to  the  Celestina  is 
apparent,178  there  was  just  as  much  influence  exerted  on  this  play 
by  the  Renascence  novel  of  intrigue.  As  a  type  in  the  abstract, 
we  may  recall,  the  latter  was  part  of  a  tradition  which  influenced 
all  sixteenth  century  fiction,  and  was  thus  well  known  to  Lope. 
Much  of  the  amatory  phraseology  pointed  out  on  other  occasions 
is  therefore  to  be  found  in  this  drama  also :  ' '  Este  amor  que  me 
encendio  Con  fuegos  tan  excesivos";  Fabia  is  called  "peregrino 
dolor  para  enfermos  de  amor" ;  "esa  labradora  es  Fuego  que  me 
abrasa  y  arde; 

tambien   me   espanta 
Ver  este  amor  comenzar 
Por   tantas    hechicerias, 
Y  que  cercos  y  conjuros 
No  son  remedios  seguros, 
Si  honestamente  porfias. 

its  Cf.  Origenes  III,  p.  cliv;  also  Obras  de  Lope  de  Vega,  edit,  of  Acad- 
emy, vol.  X,  p.  lxxv,  on  El  Caballero  de  Olmedo. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Benascence  in  Spain  213 

Ovid,  in  his  Remedia  amoris,  counsels  against  the  use  of  charms 
and  potions  as  a  remedy  for  the  amorous  passion  (vs.  259ff.) 

The  steps  of  the  intrigue  are  planned  in  the  usual  way: 
Alonso,  el  Caballero  de  Olmedo,  sees  Dona  Ines  for  the  first  time 
"en  una  feria,"  and  also  follows  her  to  chapel  where  the  first 
glances  are  exchanged;  he  then  resorts  to  a  go-between,  the  old 
woman  Fabia  who  is  to  carry  a  letter  to  Ines.  The  go-between's 
interest  is  stimulated  in  the  usual  way  by  the  promise  of  a 
splendid  reward.  She  naturally  sees  danger  in  Alonso 's  pre- 
tensions, but  undertakes  the  mission  (scene  2).  Fabia,  in  her 
turn,  assumes  the  role  of  one  "que  suele  vender  Para  las  mejillas 
grana,  Y  para  la  cara  nieve, "  and  by  means  of  the  servant  Ana 
gains  admission  to  the  house  (scene  4),  and  begins  by  flattering 
the  fair  inmates  (scene  5)  : 

Ay!    Dios  os   deje   gozar 
Tanta  gracia    y    bizarria, 
Tanta  hermosura    y   donaire! 
Que  cada  dia  que  os  veo 
Con  tanta  gala  y  aseo, 
Y  pisar  de  tan  buen  aire, 
Os  echo  mil  bendiciones;   etc. 

Then  she  proceeds  to  display  her  wares,  among  them  "Polvos 
de  dientes,  jabones  De  manos,  pastillas,  cosas  Curiosas  y  pro- 
vechosas."  She  thus  finds  means  of  bringing  out  the  letter.  It 
is  handed  to  Ines  who  receives  it  only  because  it  is  not  meant  for 
her,  and  writes  an  answer  on  Fabia 's  plea  that  it  be  directed  to 
an  unknown  lover.  Ines,  however,  surmises  that  the  letter  will 
reach  Alonso.  On  her  next  meeting  with  Alonso,  Fabia  pretends 
to  have  failed  in  her  mission ;  this,  as  usual,  was  meant  to  incite 
the  lover,  and  to  extract  a  greater  reward.  Fabia  says  :  ' '  Cuatro 
mil  palos  me  han  dado"  (scene  10).  Rivals  now  appear  on  the 
scene  to  add  to  the  zest  of  the  intrigue.  Classical  reminiscences 
do  not  fail  to  illustrate  the  efforts  which  Alonso  makes  to  see  Ines : 

Pues  yo  que  hago  en  venir, 
Tello,  de  Olmedo  a  Medina? 
Leandro  pasaba  un  mar 
Todas  las  noches,  por  ver 
Si  le  podia  beber 
Para  poderse  templar. — (II,  1.) 


214  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

The  lover  finally  gains  admission  to  the  house  of  Ines ;  the  father 
appears  and  Alonso  is  concealed;  after  an  interview  lasting  a 
large  part  of  the  night,  the  lovers  part  with  the  customary 
expression  of  their  hatred  for  the  dawn : 

Dona  Ines: — Espera:  que  a  abrir  la  puerta 
Es  forzoso  que  yo  vaya. 
Don  Alonso: — Ay,  luz!  Ay,  aurora  necia, 
De  todo  amante  envidiosa! 
Tello: — Ya  no  aguardeis  que  amanezca. 
Don  Alonso: — Como? 

Tello: — Porque  ya  es  de  dia.i^o    (H,  scene  5.) 

The  go-between  and  the  servant  of  Alonso,  Tello,  now  resort  to 
disguise  to  deceive  the  father  (II,  scene  10).  The  final  union 
of  the  lovers  is  prevented  by  the  tragic  death  of  Alonso  at  the 
hands  of  his  base  rivals,  hence  the  drama  is  called  by  Lope  a 
tragicomedia. 

A  more  comprehensive  view  of  Lope's  appreciation  of  Ovid 
may  be  had  from  the  Dorotea,  a  work  of  importance  to  our 
subject  not  only  because  it  was  the  favorite  child  of  his  mind 
(tal  vez  de  mi  la  mas  querida),  but  also  because,  printed  at 
the  close  of  his  long  literary  career,  it  represents  with  a  certain 
completeness  his  attitude  toward  many  things  of  contemporary 
culture.  Menendez  y  Pelayo,  in  his  admirable  introduction  to 
the  third  volume  of  his  Origenes  de  la  Novela,  called  attention  to 
the  tribute  which  Lope  paid  to  the  story  of  Calisto  and  Melibea 
by  imitating  it  in  the  Dorotea.  The  chief  similarity  between  the 
two  works  lies  in  the  characters  of  Celestina  and  the  go-between, 

179  Cf.  chapter  I  above,  on  the  alba;  this  song  survived  into  the  six- 
teenth century:  Quintana,  Poesias  selectas  castellanas,  vol.  II,  p.  255, 
gives  a  striking  specimen: 

El  alba  nos  mira, 

Y  el    dia   amanece; 
Antes    que    te    sientan 
Levantate  y  vete. 

Deja  los  blandos  regazos, 
Aunque  el  sueno  te  detenga, 
Antes  que  a  la  tierra  venga 
El  sol  desparciendo  abrazos. 
No  hay  gustos  sin  embarazos, 
No   hay   contento   sin   pasion, 

Y  a  los   cuerdos  la  ocasion 
Jamas  les  nego  el   copete; 
Levantate  y  vete.    etc. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  215 

Gerarda.  The  latter  is  the  offspring  of  a  long  line  of  predeces- 
sors, of  Celestina,  of  Trotaconventos  of  Juan  Kuiz,  of  the  old  hag 
in  Pamphilus  de  amove,  and  others  who  continue  the  line  back 
to  antiquity.  But  Lope's  Gerarda  has  enough  original  traits  to 
make  her  one  of  his  most  striking  creations. 

Apart  from  the  important  feature  of  the  Dorotea's  indebted- 
ness to  the  Celestina,  much  light  is  thrown  upon  a  great  many 
other  subjects  related  to  Lope's  life  and  works.  One  is  the 
abundant  evidence  of  his  humanistic  training  and  of  his  genuine 
appreciation  of  the  classics.  Here,  if  anywhere,  his  acquaint- 
ance with  Ovid  would  consequently  manifest  itself.  A  just 
criticism  of  the  whole  drama  is  that  most  of  its  characters  are 
altogether  too  well  versed  in  the  writings  of  the  ancients;  this 
fact  may  be  taken  as  fair  evidence  of  Lope's  youth  when  he 
wrote  its  more  academic  passages.  Thus  the  mother,  Teodora, 
a  simple-minded  woman,  compares  her  daughter  with  Dido,  and 
Dorotea  calls  Gerarda  Circe.  In  the  mouth  of  the  young  poet, 
Fernando,  a  display  of  learning  is  more  logical,  for  it  speaks 
of  his  recent  days  at  school..  In  the  very  extensive  reminiscences 
of  Ovid,  the  Metamorphoses  take  the  first  place.  All  of  Lope's 
writings  show  that  he  knew  the  Latin  work  in  every  detail.  It 
is  natural  that  he  did  not  always  take  it  seriously :  in  the  dedica- 
tion prefixed  to  el  Desconfiado  he  stated  that  many  ridiculed  the 
books  of  chivalry,  and  rightly  so,  if  they  considered  them  super- 
ficially; looked  at  in  the  same  way,  works  of  antiquity,  such  as 
the  Metamorphoses  of  Ovid,  might  be  called  "vanos  e  infruc- 
tuosos";  but  by  penetrating  to  the  heart  of  the  poem  all  the 
parts  of  its  philosophy  could  be  discovered,  namely,  the  natural 
racional  y  moral.  This  is  the  purely  mediaeval,  inherited  inter- 
pretation. In  el  Bobo  del  Colegio  (II,  scene  5),  Lope  makes 
a  humorous  comparison : 

Ciego  es  amor:   no  repara 
En  la  vida  ni  en  la  muerte, 
En  la  honra  ni  en  la  infamia. 
Cuando  Ovidio  y  otros  pintan 
A  Jupiter  que  tomaba 
Ya  de  cisne,  ya  de  toro 


216  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Ya  de  fuego,  formas  varias 
Esto  quisieron  decir: 
Que  para  hablar  a  sus  damas 
Se  transforman  los  amantes. 
Ponte  un  sayo  y  capa  parda, 
Y  diras  que  eres  mi  tio. 

Again,  in  the  Dovotea,  in  a  "cancion  a  cierta  pulga"  he  says: 

Que   necios   anduvieron 
En   sus  transformaciones  fabulosas 
Los  dioses  que  se   hicieron 
Cisnes,  toros,  caballos,  fuentes,  rosas! 
Pues  si  en  ti  se  volvieran. 
Que  linces  Argos  sus  engafios  vieran? 

In  spite  of  such  ridicule,  the  frequency  with  which  Lope  took 
material  from  the  Metamorphoses  makes  it  evident  that  Ovid 
was  dear  to  him.  The  poet  himself  is  mentioned  several  times. 
When  Fernando  fears  that  Dorotea  may  be  won  by  the  power  of 
gold  (I,  scene  4),  he  says:  "Ovidio  dijo  que  mas  daho  habia 
hecho  el  oro  que  el  hierro, "  which  translates  Met.  I,  141 :  Iamque 
nocens  ferrum  ferroque  nocentius  aurum  Prodierat.  In  the 
same  scene  the  famous  song  A  mis  soledacles  voy  contains  a  refer- 
ence to  the  passage  in  the  Metamorphoses  just  mentioned: 

....  dijeron   que   antiguamente 
Se   fue  la   verdad  al   cielo, 
Tal   la   pusieron   los   hombres, 
Que  desde  entonces  no   a  vuelto. 

Ovid  is  further  mentioned  by  name  in  II,  scene  5:  "Cien  ojos 
tenia  aquel  pastor  de  Ovidio";  in  III,  scene  1:  "yo  [digo]  con 
Ovidio,  que  ninguno  que  ama  lo  conoce;180  in  III,  scene  4:  "Safo, 
aquella  gran  poetisa  quiso  tanto  a  Faon  Lesbio  que  fue  sugeto 
de  una  de  las  epistolas  de  Ovidio";  in  IV,  scene  3:  [Minotauro] 
Esta  voz  (lo)  es  de  Minos  y  Tauro;  asi  se  llamaba  el  hijo  de 
Pasifae,  a  quien  levanto  Ovidio  que  se  enamoro  de  un  toro ;  que 
entre  las  fabulas  y  apologos  de  los  poetas  ninguna  agravio  tanto 
a  las  mujeres  como  esta  bestialidad  y  el  caballo  de  Semiramis; 

iso  Repeated  in  El  Peregrino  en  su  patria,  bk.  V:  Pero  como  puede 
quien  ama,  ver  lo  que  le  conviene?  Assi  lo  dixo  Ovidio,  y  Seneca  en  su 
Hypolito:  Conozco  la  verdad  etc. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  217 

porque  el  cisne  de  la  hermosa  Leda  y  la  lluvia  de  oro  de  la 
imposible  Danae  ya  fueron  hombres ;  si  bien  por  alegoria  debieron 
de  querer  decir  que  el  poder,  la  fuerza,  el  interes  y  la  ocasion 
vencieron  a  muchas."  Cf.  II,  scene  2,  on  the  minotauro.  In 
the  above  passage  we  again  find  the  allegorical  interpretation  of 
.the  Metamorphoses.     Again,  IV,  scene  3:  "la  voz  de  las  ranas 

0  los  villanos  de  Licia  que  transform©  Latona  llamo  ronca  Ovidio" 
{Met.  VI,  377).  Lope  evidently  liked  this  adjective,  for  he  uses 
it  occasionally  himself.181  And  V,  scene  3  :  Don  Fernando :  "Pues 
vengarse,  es  amor?"  Julio:  "No,  sino  desesperacion  amorosa,  y 
acuerdate  de  lo  que  de  Medea  escribe  Ovidio,  que  habiendose 
casado  Jason  con  otra,  se  la  mato  con  dos  hijos  y  puso  fuego  a 
sus  casas."  It  would  be  futile  to  mention  all  the  references  to 
the  Metamorphoses,  for  mythological  allusions  recur  on  almost 
every  page.  The  picture  of  "Cupido  tirando  al  dios  marino" 
(II,  scene  1),  is  Metamorphoses,  V,  365-84.  Speaking  of  Doro- 
tea  Gerarda  says :  "si  f uera  en  el  tiempo  de  las  f  abulas,  ya  f uera 
piedra,  como  Anaxarte  (II,  scene  6),  by  whom  Gerarda  means 
Anaxarete,  whose  story  is  told  Metamorphoses,  XIV,  698  ff. 
Sometimes  Lope  heaps  up  classical  references  with  a  certain  dis- 
play of  pedantry  and  little  taste.  In  the  coro  de  interes  of  II 
may  be  found  mention  of  Euridice,  Evadne,  Penelope,  Dafne, 
Venus,  Piramo,  Marte,  Apolo,  Hercules,  etc. ;  cf .  also  III,  scene 

1  of  the  Dorotea;  a  short  passage  of  III,  scene  1  of  la  Corona 
merecida  mentions  Hercules,  Jason,  Orfeo,  Jerjes,  Anibal,  Ale- 
jandro, Apolo,  Octavio,  Troya,  Letea,  la  sierpe  Lernea,  Scila 
y  Caribdis,  Semiramis,  Medea,  Penelope,  Dafne,  Porcia,  Circe 
and  others.  An  unusual  juxtaposition  of  names  did  not  deter 
Lope,  as  when  he  says,  for  example,  "La  edad  es  esta  de  Piramo 
y  Leandro,  de  Porcia,  Julia  y  Fedra  (III,  scene  1  of  Dorotea). 
Sisifo,  Hercules  and  Anteo,  Scila  and  Caribdis  are  mentioned 
scores  of  times  in  Lope's  plays;  one  in  trouble  is  fairly  certain 
to  be  compared  with  the  first ;  if  beset  by  difficulties  with  which 
one  may  wrestle,  the  second,  and  if  tossed  by  Fortune  from  one 
danger  to  another,  the  last  two.     The  usage  of  a  large  part  of 

lsi  "Ya  el  roiico  gallo  al  labrador  convida. "     I,  13  of  El  maestro  de 
danzar. 


218  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

the  classics  became  stereotyped:  a  faithful  widow  is  a  "casta 
Penelope,"  a  frivolous  woman  is  compared  with  Helen,  Ulysses 
means  craft  (astucia),  Aeneas  stands  for  piety,  Achates  for  loy- 
alty, Euryalus  and  Nisus,  Damon  and  Pythias,  of  course,  for 
friendship,  Circe  and  Medea  are  the  patterns  for  witches,  Dido 
for  the  abandoned  female,  and  so  on  through  an  endless  list. 
Occasionally,  however,  one  comes  across  a  certain  kind  of  passage 
in  which  the  reminiscence  from  Ovid  is  most  successful.  An 
example  of  this  is  the  opening  scene  of  Lope's  La  Discreta  ena- 
morada.  In  describing  the  creation  of  the  world  in  the  first  book 
of  the  Metamorphoses  (82-6),  it  will  be  remembered  how  admir- 
ably Ovid  contrasts  the  creation  of  the  animals  with  that  of 
man:  they  walk  on  all  fours  looking  at  the  earth,  man  alone  the 
Creator  made  to  stand  erect,  and  bade  him  gaze  upon  the  heavens 
and  lift  his  countenance  to  the  stars.  This  Lope  incorporates  as 
follows :  A  street  scene :  Belisa  enters  with  her  daughter,  Fenisa. 

Belisa: — Baja  los  ojos  al  suelo, 

Porque  solo  has  de  mirar 

La  tierra  que  has  de  pisar. 
Fenisa: — Que  no  he  de  mirar  al  cielo? 
Belisa: — No   repliques,  bachillera. 
Fenisa: — Pues,  no  quieres  que  me  asombre? 

Crio  Dios  derecho  al  hombre 

Porque  el  cielo  ver  pudiera; 

Y  de  su  poder  sagrado 

Fue  advertencia  singular, 

Para  que  viese  el  lugar 

Para  donde  fue  criado. 

Los  animales,  que  el  cielo 

Para  la  tierra  crio, 

Miren  el  suelo;  mas  yo, 

Porque  he  de  mirar  al  suelo? 
Belisa: — Mirar  el  cielo  podras 

Con  solo  el  entendimiento 

Que  un  honesto  pensamiento 

Mira  la  tierra  no  mas,  etc. 

In  addition  to  the  Metamorphoses  the  Heroides  were  very 
well  known  to  Lope.  He  frequently  mentions  them  (cf.  Dorotea, 
III,  scene  4),  and  in  Dorotea 's  letter  to  Fernando  the  imitation 
of  the  tone  of  the  Epistolas  is  very  evident,  above  all  of  the 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  219 

letter  of  Dido  to  Aeneas.  That  Lope  remembered  Dido's  lamen- 
tations in  connection  with  the  situation  of  a  forsaken  woman  is 
evident  from  a  passage  in  the  novela,  las  Fortunas  de  Diana : 
"Dos  meses  habia  estado  Diana  en  el  cortijo  de  aquellos  honrados 
labradores  bien  regalada  de  Filis,  cuando  llego  su  parto,  que 
fue  de  un  hermoso  hijo,  para  que  no  pudiese  quejarse,  como  en 
Virgilio  la  despreciada  Dido  del  fugitivo  Eneas. 

Si  me  quedara  de  ti 
Un  Eneas  pequefiuelo, 
Antes  que  el  airado  cielo 
Te  dividiera  de  mi; 

Que  por  mi  casa  jugara 
Y   tu   rostro   pareciera, 
Ni  mis  engaiios  sintiera, 
Ni  por  tu  ausencia  llorara. 
Aunque  de  otra  manera  lo  sintio  Ovidio  en  su  epistola : 

Por  ventura  me  has  dejado 
Parte  en  mi  pecho  de  ti, 
Ingrato,  que  ahora  en  mi 
A  muerte  condena  el  hado; 

Y  asi  perdiendo  la  vida 
Por  ti  la  infelice  Dido, 
Del  hijo  que  no  ha  nacido 
Seras  padre  y  homicida. 

Pero  pienso  que  el  artificio  en  que  Ovidio  fue  tan  celebre  poeta, 
obligo  a  Dido  a  fingir  que  quedaba  prenada  de  Eneas  para 
obligarle  a  volver  a  verla:  cosa  que  no  solo  fingen  las  mugeres, 
pero  los  mismos  partos."  But  Dorotea's  letter  to  Fernando  (III, 
scene  6)  derives  from  Ovid  far  more,  than  from  Virgil,  as  a 
careful  comparison  with  the  Heroides  will  show.  She  says  in 
part :  ' '  Quien  di jera,  Fernando  mio,  la  noche  antes  del  dia  que 
te  partiste,  que  a  los  dos  nos  sucediera  tan  gran  desdicha,  que 
a  mi  me  obligaran  a  darte  causa,  y  tu  la  tuvieras  para  partirte? 
Crueles  fuimos  entrambos,  pero  tu  mas  conmigo,  como  quien 
tenia  mas  valor  y  entendimiento.  Es  la  condicion  de  las  mujeres 
tan  temerosa,  y  imprimese  en  su  cobardia  tan  facilmente  la  mas 
minima  amenaza,  que  ella  tuvo  la  culpa  de  mi  atrevimiento. 
Diras  que  como  no  pudo  mi  amor  aconsejarme  que  nos  estaba 
mejor  a  los  dos  morir  que  dividirnos,  y  que  mi  madre  no  podia 


220  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

ser  tan  riguroso  juez  como  yo  lo  fui  de  mi  misma?  ....  Que 
corazon  de  fiera  con  tan  animosa  determinacion  en  un  instante 
ejecutara,  con  cinco  aiios  de  amor,  tan  gran  castigo?  Los  anti- 
guos  que  escribieron  ingratitudes  de  hombres,  que  memoria 
dejaran  de  tu  crueldad  si  fueras  de  aquel  tiempo  ?  Lo  mas  que 
me  dijiste  para  consolar  mis  lagrimas,  fue  hacerme  cargo  de  que 
por  mi  no  estabas  casado,  sin  acordarte  que  ahora  tienes  veinte 
y  dos  afios ;  mira,  cruel,  si  te  queda  bastante  tiempo  para  casarte, 
y  si  por  lo  mismo  me  estas  en  obligacion,  pues  los  cinco  aiios  de 
nuestro  conocimiento  te  he  quitado  de  arrepentirte.  Secasteme 
con  tu  sequedad  las  lagrimas.  con  tu  aspereza  el  corazon  y  con 
tus  palabras  la  voluntad;  que  las  respuestas  injustas  enfurecen 
la  humildad,  escurecen  el  entendimiento  y  alteran  con  tempes- 
tades  de  ira  la  serenidad  del  alma.  Final  me  nte  la  tuviste  para 
partirte ;  pues  no  es  esa  la  mayor  crueldad  si  la  comparo  a  tres 
meses  de  olvido,  donde  te  habra  parecido  que  seria  bajeza  darme 
a  entender  que  te  acordabas  de  mi  con  escribirme.  Que  hubieras 
perdido  de  quien  eres  por  saber  de  un  cuerpo  a  quien  llevaste  el 
alma,  dejandome  en  estado  que  aquella  noche,  como  no  tuve 
espada  para  matarme,  la  hice  de  una  sortija  que  me  diste,  porque 
lo  fuese  el  veneno  de  su  diamante?  Pero  no  quiso  ejecutar  mi 
muerte,  respetando  el  corazon  en  que  estabas";  etc.  In 
Dorotea's  final  appeal  to  Fernando  (V,  scene  4),  the  imitation 
of  Ovid's  Heroides,  especially  the  letter  of  Dido,  is  even  more 
patent.1*2  Dorotea  resolves  to  look  on  Fernando 's  picture  for 
the  last  time,  but  she  cannot  refrain  from  putting  on  paper  a 
last  word  (dos  palabras)  having  in  mind  the  famous  poet  who 
long  before  had  written  so  eloquently  of  "ingratitudes  de  hom- 

1S2  In  El  desdichado  por  la  honra  may  be  found  another  conventional 
lamentation:  O  cruel  espanol,  barbaro  como  tu  tierra!  Oh,  el  mas  falso 
de  los  hombres,  a  quien  no  iguala  la  crueldad  de  Vireno  .  .  .  .  ni  todos 
los  que  olvidados  de  su  nobleza  y  obligacion  dejaron  burladas  mugeres 
principales  e  inocentes!  Adonde  vas,  y  me  dejas  sin  honra  y  sin  ti,  de 
quien  ya  solamente  podia  esperarla?  etc. — Lope's  four  novels  contain 
amatory  features,  with  here  and  there  an  episode  characteristic  of  the 
"Ovidian  tale,"  as,  for  example,  the  seduction  of  Diana  in  Las  Fortunas 
de  Diana,  but  they  are  mingled  with  much  machinery  of  adventure,  and 
put  together  in  a  way  to  make  them  rather  improbable  (inverosimil).  The 
Peregrino  en  su  patria  is  filled  with  references  to  Biblical,  classical,  his- 
torical and  other  subjects,  and  frequently  mentions  Ovid. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spam  221 

bres":  "Salid,  salid,  verdadero  traslado  del  hombre  mas  traidor 
que  tiene  el  mundo ;  salid,  que  quiero  hacer  justicia  de  vos  como 
el  toro,  que  se  venga  en  la  capa  cuando  se  le  huye  el  hombre. 
Sois  vos  el  que  me  engaiiastes  con  los  tiernos  anos  que  aqui 
teneis,  no  presumiendo  yo  que  se  mudara  vuestro  dueiio  cuando 
fueran  mayores?  Que  me  mirais  con  aquella  falsa  risa  que  os 
puso  Felipe  en  esos  ojos?  Que  decis?  Porque  no  hablais? 
Porque  no  respondeis?  Que  quien  sabe  mirar,  bien  puede 
responder.  Con  estos  ojos  mirais  a  Marfisa,  y  con  esta  boca 
me  engaiiais  a  mi :  que  mucho  que  ella  os  quiera  y  que  padezca 
yo  !  Aqui  dice :  '  Esclavo  de  Dorotea. '  Esclavo  no,  fugitivo  si. 
Que  leo?  Que  miro?  Que  dilato  la  venganza  justa  destos  en- 
gaiios,  destas  traiciones,  destas  crueldades,  destos  dulces  venenos 
de  mis  sentidos?  Adonde  estaba  mi  entendimiento  cuando  me 
fie  de  diez  y  siete  arios?  Para  que  criaba  yo  un  aspid  en  mi 
pecho?  ....  Triste  de  mi,  como  pienso  en  esto?  Por  ventura, 
imagina  que  su  retrato  sera  la  espada  de  Eneas  para  la  reina 
Dido?  Quien  fue  tan  necio  en  el  mundo  que  se  entretuvo  con 
la  copa  en  que  le  dieron  veneno?"  etc. 

The  Ars  amatoria  and  the  Remedia  amoris  are  also  recalled 
by  Lope  in  the  Dorotea  (II,  scene  5)  :  "Este  si  que  es  arte  de 
amar,  que  no  el  de  Ovidio,"  exclaims  Laurencio  apropos  of 
Dorotea 's  reception  of  her  suitor's  gifts.  In  III,  scene  4,  Ludo- 
vico  says:  "En  su  Convite  de  amor  dijo  Platon  que  solamente 
se  reian  los  dioses  de  los  amantes  perjuros."  The  reference  cer- 
tainly recalls  the  Ars  amat.  I,  633 :  Iupiter  ex  alto  periuria  ridet 
amantum.  Again,  Fernando,  in  reading  over  old  letters  of  the 
past  fans  his  uncertain  passion  for  Dorotea  (I,  scene  5).  This 
is  a  trick  which  writers  of  fiction  employed  in  accordance  with 
a  precept  in  Ovid's  Remedia  amoris;  that  Lope  may  have  had 
Ovid  in  mind  is  strengthened  by  the  following  passage  (IV, 
scene  8)  :  "Si  entre  los  remedios  del  amor  pone  Ovidio  la  con- 
sideracion  de  las  traiciones  de  lo  que  se  ama,  y  los  dafios  que 
resultan,  y  yo  los  miro.  de  que  te  admiras?"  In  the  Remedia 
amoris  may  be  found  (vs.  299  and  303)  :  Sic  mihi  iuravit,  sic 
me  iurata  fefellit;  Saepe  refer  tecum  sceleratae  facta  puellae, 


222  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

Et  pone  ante  oculos  damna  tuos.  The  following  passage  seems 
to  be  from  Ovid,  although  in  a  diluted  form  (V,  scene  3)  :  "De 
dos  maneras  .  .  .  .  se  cura  amor,  una  por  naturaleza  y  otra  por 
diligencia :  la  que  es  por  naturaleza.  se  hace  por  ciertos  inter- 
vals de  tiempo,  lo  que  conviene  tambien  a  todas  enfermedades ; 
la  que  por  diligencia.  consiste  en  la  diversion  del  entendimiento 
o  en  otras  ocupaciones  o  en  otros  sugetos."  Ovid  says  time  and 
effort  prevail  over  love  as  well  as  distracting  occupations.183 

Lope's  plays  on  mythological  subjects  have  been  admirably 
treated  by  Menendez  y  Pelayo  in  his  introduction  to  Volume  VI 
of  the  collection  printed  by  the  Spanish  Academy.  Eight  of 
them  are  reprinted  there:  Adonis  y  Venus,  las  Mujeres  sin 
hombres,  la  Fdbula  de  Perseo,  el  Laberinto  de  Creta,  el  Vellocino 
de  oro,  el  Marido  mas  firme  (Orfeo),  la  bella  Aurora  (Cefalo  y 
Proeris).  el  Amor  enamorado  (Dafne  y  Apolo).  The  editor  indi- 
cates the  extent  to  which  Lope  is  indebted  to  Ovid,  and  also 
speaks  of  other  works  which  treat  similar  themes. 

These  mythological  plays,  however,  do  not  represent  Lope's 
most  characteristic  use  of  material  from  Ovid,  and  their  festal 
character  which  must  have  been  nearer  that  of  a  pageant  than 
of  a  drama,  reached  a  higher  level  in  the  middle  of  the 
seventeenth  century  in  the  court  productions  of  Calderon.  A 
truer  compendium  of  Lope 's  classical  mythology  can  be  found  in 
his  poem  La  Circe  which  has  a  little  of  everything,  including 
the  wanderings  of  Llysses  and  something  of  the  Trojan  war. 
Quintana.  in  the  notes  to  his  Poesias  selectas  castellanas,  II.  p. 
555.  makes  Homer  the  source  of  this  poem.  Careful  reading,  how- 
ever, makes  Lope's  indebtedness  to  Ovid  quite  clear.  The  song 
of  Polyphemus  to  Galatea  (Met.  XIII.  789  ff.).  was  surely  of 
influence  on  the  song:  "0  mas  hermosa  y  dulce  Galatea  !"  Lope 
also  wrote  a  very  graceful  version  of  the  Golden  Age  (el  Siglo  de 

183  Another  reference  to  the  Eemedia  amoris  (249  ff.)  and  not  the 
Heroides  can  be  seen  in  the  Gatomaquia,  silva  ii: 

y  como  Ovidio   escribe   en   su   Epistolio, 

Que  no  me  acuerdo  el  folio, 

Estas   heridas   del   amor   protervas 

Xo   se   curan   con   yerbas: 

Que  no  hay  para  olvidar  a  amor  remedio 

Como  otro  nuevo  amor,  o  tierra  en  medio. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spai7i  223 

Oro  is  his  title)  which  uses  freely  some  ideas  of  the  picture 
in  the  Metamorphoses,  book  I,  but  surpasses  it  greatly  in  rich- 
ness of  color  and  imagery.  Finally,  careful  scrutiny  of  both 
poets  suggests  the  conclusion  that  Lope  was  a  kindred  spirit  of 
I  Ovid :  his  facile  pen,  his  lavish  poetic  endowment,  his  pagan 
morals,  eyen  episodes  of  his  life,  such  as  his  exile,  recall  the  Latin 
poet.  The  comparison  has  been  made  before.  In  Juan  Enriquez 
de  Zuiiiga's  Amor  con  vista,  etc.184  (Madrid,  1625,  f.  107)  can 
be  found :  ' '  Lo  cierto  es  que  la  Poesia  ha  de  ser  como  la  del 
insigne  Lope  de  Vega  Carpio,  ilustre  gloria  de  nuestra  espanola 
nacion,  y  como  la  del  excelente  Ovidio  en  su  tiempo,  tan  parecidas 
en  el  natural  prospero,  en  lo  dulce,  elegante,  y  claro  de  las 
palabras,  y  sobre  todo  en  lo  delgado  y  vivo  de  los  pensamientos, 
que  no  se  si  Lope  de  Vega  compone  con  el  espiritu  de  Ovidio,  o 
este  compuso  con  el  de  Lope." 

The  number  of  mythological  plays  which  Calderon  wrote, 
when  compared  with  the  whole  of  his  dramatic  work,  is  far 
greater  than  in  the  case  of  Lope.  This  is  so  not  only  because 
the  myth  was  easily  adapted  to  festal  plays  and  pageants,  a 
genre  in  which  Calderon  was  at  his  best,  but  because  the 
splendor  which  the  court  festivities  had  assumed  gave  him  fre- 
quent occasion  to  exercise  his  stagecraft  and  to  bring  out  spec- 
tacular dramas.  The  ornate  and  coloristic  language  of  Calderon, 
too,  was  excellently  adapted  to  the  ingenuity  of  his  plots :  elab- 
orate imagery,  figures  of  speech,  rhetorical  and  lyrical  qualities 
in  general  received  through  him  a  prominence  which  the  older 
drama  did  not  know.  At  times  the  theme  of  these  classic  myths 
was  capable  of  comic  as  well  as  serious  treatment.  A  good 
example  is  Celos  ann  del  aire  matan,  a  serious  presentation  of  the 
story  of  Cephalus  and  Procris,  Metamorphoses,  VII,  661  ff.,  and 
the  comedy  Cefalo  y  Procris. 

The  subjects  of  the  mythological  plays  of  Calderon  betray 
their  indebtedness  to  the  classics,  and  especially  to  Ovid.  Brief 
mention  of  a  few  of  them  will  suffice.  El  mayor  encanto  amor 
is  based  on  the  story  of  the  sojourn  of  Ulysses  on  the  island  of 

is-»Cf.  Perez  Pastor,  Bibliografia  Madrilena  (Madrid.  1891-1907),  vol. 
Ill,  p.  269. 


224  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Circe.  The  chief  sources  have  been  given  by  some  as  Homer's 
Odyssey  and  Tasso's  Jerusalem  Delivered;  but  Ovid  was  much 
better  known  to  Calderon  than  Homer,  and  he  speaks  of  Circe 
at  length  on  several  occasions  (Met.  XIV,  247  ff.,  and  Remedia 
amoris,  263  ff.).  Other  plays  which  deal  with  myths  given  in 
full  by  Ovid  are  Los  tres  may  ores  prodigios  (story  of  the  Argo- 
nauts and  Medea,  the  labyrinth  of  Crete,  and  the  death  of 
Hercules),  El  monstruo  de  los  jardines  (Achilles  and  Deidamia), 
Eco  y  Narciso,  Fortunas  de  Andromeda  y  Perseo,  El  hijo  del 
Sol,  Faeton,  and  many  others.  Most  of  them  have  been  dis- 
cussed by  various  scholars,185  and  the  date  of  their  appearance 
takes  me  beyond  the  limits  of  my  chapter.  Moreover,  a  thorough 
examination  of  Calderon 's  mythological  sources  would  justify  a 
whole  book.186  What  has  been  done  is  not  altogether  satisfactory 
for  several  reasons.  First,  it  neglects  the  translations  of  Ovid 
which  were  issued  with  extensive  comments.  In  the  case  of  the 
Metamorphoses  this  is  important  because  the  annotations  of  some 
versions  (such  as  Viana's,  for  example)  tell  us  more  of  the 
myth,  and  occasionally  add  extended  variants  taken  from  ancient 
or  mediaeval  writers.  In  the  second  place,  it  is  wiser  to  qualify 
such  an  assertion  as  that  of  Leopold  Schmidt,187  that  the  chief 
sources  of  information  on  classical  mythology  during  the  Renas- 
cence are  to  be  found  in  such  learned  writers  as  Boccaccio, 
Gyraldus,  and  Natalis  Comes,  "welche  im  siebenzehnten  Jahrhun- 
dert  noch  in  unbestrittenem  Ansehen  standen. "  The  texts  of 
the  ancients  which  were  used  in  the  schools  generally  included 

iss  Cf.  F.  W.  V.  Schmidt,  Die  Schauspiele  Calderons  dargestellt  und 
erliiutert  (Elberfield,  1857);  A.  F.  v.  Schaek,  Geschichte  etc.,  vol.  Ill; 
Calderon  y  su  teatro,  conferencias  dadas  por  D.  Marcelino  Menendez  y 
Pelayo  en  el  Circulo  de  la  Union  Catolica,  3ra  edicion  (Madrid,  1884), 
un  tomo  (XXI)  de  la  coleccion  de  escritores  castellanos ;  cf.  also  his  Teatro 
selecto  de  Calderon;  Engelbert  Giinthner,  Calderon  und  seine  WerTce,  2  vols. 
(Freiburg  i.  B.  1888). 

186  Mr.  O.  Staaf,  of  the  graduate  school  of  Yale  University,  began  a 
study  of  Calderon 's  mythological  plays:  I  am  not  aware  that  he  has  com- 
pleted it  as  yet. 

187  F.  W.  V.  Schmidt,  op.  cit.,  p.  xxiv;  the  editor  refers  to  Generalogiae 
deorum  gentilium  secundum  Joh.  Boccatium,  etc.  (Venetiis,  1472,  fol.); 
be  Deis  Gentium  historia  in  qua  simul  de  eorum  imaginibus  et  cognominibus 
agitur,  Syntagmata  XVII  Lilius  Gregorius  Gyraldus  (Bas.  1548,  fol.); 
Natalis  Comes,  Mytliologiae,  sive  explicationum  fabularum  libri  decern, 
etc.   (Venetiis,  1568). 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Benascence  in  Spain  225 

extensive  notes  and  commentaries,  and  these  could  well  have  fur- 
nished to  the  students  the  general  information  which  was  made 
use  of  in  novels  and  plays.  Finally,  a  study  comparing  Cald- 
eron's  dramas  with  other  Spanish  and  Italian  versions  of  classic 
myths  would  be  of  interest.  Indeed,  the  very  common  allegorical 
interpretation  of  the  Metamorphoses  alone  is  sufficient  to  indicate 
that  mediaeval  and  Renascence  versions  of  Ovid,  with  their 
traditional  commentaries,  influenced  the  authors  of  the  sixteenth 
century. 

Contemporary  dramatists  of  Lope  and  Calderon  likewise  made 
use  of  mythological  subjects  for  their  dramas,  and  refer  to  Ovid 
or  to  his  characters  from  time  to  time  in  the  characteristic 
way,188  but  none,  it  seems  to  me,  with  the  frequency  of  Lope 
and  Calderon.  Tirso  de  Molina  is,  I  think,  freest  from  the 
academic  habit  of  alluding  to  the  ancients,  or  comparing  his 
heroes  and  heroines  with  those  of  times  long  gone  by. 

188  Cf.  El  Esclavo  del  demonio  by  Mira  de  Mesqua  (Barcelona,  1612), 
edited  by  Buchanan  (Baltimore,  1905),  p.  22,  and  n.  p.  138. 
Also  Alarcon:  La  Verdad  sospecJwsa,  II,  near  end: 
Como   quien  para  quitar 
El  enfadoso  fastidio 
De  los  negocios  pesados, 
Gasta  los  ratos  sobrados 
En  las  fabulas  de  Ovidio. 


226  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 


3 
LYRIC  POETRY  OF  THE  SIXTEENTH  CENTURY 

A  brief  statement  on  the  relations  of  Ovid  and  some  of  the 
lyric  poets  of  the  sixteenth  century189  will  close  my  task.  If 
we  recall  the  indebtedness  of  the  poets  of  the  fifteenth  century 
to  the  Ovidian  tradition,  their  stereotyped  phrases  of  passion, 
their  formal  expressions  of  courtship,  in  short,  the  entire  inher- 
ited amatory  machinery,  which  so  many  lyric  poets  of  that  age 
have  used,  we  are  impressed  by  a  noticeable  change  in  the  six- 
teenth century.  As  far  as  I  am  aware,  typical  phrases  such  as 
to  burn,  to  languish,  to  sigh,  to  groan,  to  weep  and  the  like; 
appeals  to  Venus  or  to  Love  personified;  mention  of  love  as  a 
disease,  and  the  cure  or  remedy  of  its  symptoms,  are  to  be  found 

,  less  and  less  as  we  advance  through  the  sixteenth  and  seven- 
teenth centuries.  The  spirit  of  the  classics  in  general  and  the 
riper  influence  of  humanistic  studies  are  more  than  ever  appar- 
ent, but  they  have  produced  richer  results  in  the  realm  of 
thought  and  in  the  language  in  which  ideas  and  images  are 
clothed.  Consider,  for  example,  Garcilaso  de  la  Vega.  The 
extent  to  which  this  poet  was  imbued  with  the  spirit  of  antiquity 

lis  well  known,  Virgil  and  Ovid  seem  to  have  inspired  many  of 
his  verses ;  and  yet  he  scarcely  ever  recalls  the  manner  of  the 
fifteenth  century.  When  he  touches  a  classic  theme  he  is  of  the 
great  age :  he  stands  for  the  best  of  the  fully  developed  Renas- 
cence. Two  sonnets,  of  several  which  deal  with  themes  from 
Ovid,  will  illustrate  this  best.    The  first  speaks  of  Daphne : 

A  Dafne  ya  los  brazos  le  crecian, 
Y  en  luengos  ramos  vueltos  se  mostraban; 
En  verdes  hojas  vi  que  se  tornaban 
Los  cabellos  que  al  oro  escurecian. 


189 1  cite  either  from  the  edition  Poetas  liricos  de  los  siglos  XVI  y 
XVII,  vol.  I  (Madrid,  1872),  Biblioteca  de  Autores  espailoles  or  from  the 
collection  made  by  Quintana,  or  specific  editions  of  poets. 


1913] 


Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain 


227 


The  second 
regions : 


De  aspera  corteza  se  cubrian 
Los  tiernos  miembros,  que  aun  bullendo  estaban; 
Los  blancos  pies  en  tierra  se  hincaban, 
Y  en  torcidas  raiees  se  volvian. 

Aquel  que  fue  la  causa  de  tal  dafio, 
A  fuerza  de  llorar,  crecer  hacia 
Este   arbol  que  con  lagrimas  regaba. 

;Oh  miserable  estado,  oh  mal  tamafio, 
Que  con  llorarla  crezca  cada  dia 
La  causa  y  la  razon  por  que  lloraba! 

refers  to  the   descent  of  Orpheus  into  the  lower 


Si  quejas  y  lamentos  pueden  tanto, 
Que  enfrenaron  el  curso  de  los  rios, 
Y  en  los  desiertos  montes  y  sombrios 
Los  arboles  movieron  con  su  canto; 

Si  convirtieron  a  escuchar  su  llanto 
Los  fieros  tigres  y  pefiascos  frios; 
Si,  en  fin,  con  menos  casos  que  los  mios 
Bajaron  a  los  reinos  del  espanto; 

$,Por  que  no  ablandara  mi  trabajosa 
Vida,  en  miseria  y  lagrimas  pasada, 
Un  corazon  conmigo  endurecido? 

Con  mas  piedad  debria  ser  escuchada 
La  voz  del  que  se  llora  por  perdido 
Que  la  del  que  perdio  y  llora  otra  cosa. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  traditional  phrasing  is  more  apparent  in 

the  sonnet  Imitation  de  Martial : 

Pasando  el  mar  Leandro  el  animoso, 
En  amoroso  fuego  todo  ardiendo, 
Esforzo  el  viento,  y  fuese  embraveciendo 
El  agua  con  un  impetu  furioso.    etc. 

Two  cnartetos  (traduccion  de  cuatro  versos  de  Ovidio)  are 
attributed,  with  slight  variations,  to  both  Garcilaso  and  Men- 
doza;  they  are  the  last  four  of  Dido's  letter  to  Aeneas  in  the 
Heroides : 

Pues  este  nombre  perdi 

Dido,  mujer  de  Siqueo, 

En  mi  muerte  esto  deseo 

Que  se  escriba  sobre  mi: 

"El  peor  de  los  troyanos 

Dio  la  causa  y  la  espada; 

Dido,  a  tal  punto  llegada, 

No  puso  mas  de  las  manos. " 


228  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

These  verses  may  be  Garcilaso's  because  the  sentiment  of  the 
Heroides  was  popular  with  poets  of  his  temperament  rather  than 
that  of  Mendoza. 
I  A  survival  of  the  amatory  phraseology  can  also  be  found  in 

a  Cancion  to  Dorida's  hair  by  Gutierre  de  Cetina:190 

Cabellos,  niientra  os  miro, 
De   la   cruel   Medusa 
La  bella  forma  y  el  peligro  veo. 
Ardo,  hielo  y  suspiro, 
Y   el   alma,   de   eonfusa, 
En  los  brazos  se  deja  del  deseo. 
O  escudo  de  Perseo ! 
Amor,  si  por  hazafia 
Hora  yo  lo  tuviese, 
Porque   Dorida   viese 
De  sus  cabellos  la  beldad  extraiia! 


His  beautiful  sonnet  on  Leander's  death  apparently  imitates  the 
one  by  Garcilaso  on  the  same  subject,  as  was  pointed  out  by 
Herrera ;  although  based  on  an  epigram  by  Martial :  Clamabat 
tumidis  audax  Leandros  in  undis:  'Mergite  me,  fluctus,  cum 
rediturus  ero'  (XIV,  181),  acquaintance  with  the  Heroides, 
XVIII  and  XIX  is  evident  also : 

Leandro,  que  de  amor  en  fuego  ardia, 
Puesto  que  a  su  deseo  contrastaba, 
Al  fortunoso  mar  que  no  cesaba, 
INadando  a  su  pesar,  veneer  queria. 

Mas  viendo  ya  que  el  fin  de  su  osadia 
A  la  rabiosa  muerte  lo  tiraba, 
Mirando  aquella  torre  en  donde  estaba 
Ero,  a  las  fieras  ondas  se  volvia, 

A  las  cuales  con  ansia  enamorada 
Dijo:  "Pues  aplacar  furor  divino, 
Enamorado  ardor  no  puede  nada, 

Dejadme  al  fin  llegar  de  este  camino, 
Pues  poeo  lie  de  tardar,  y  a  la  tornada 
Secutad  vuestra  sana  y  mi  destino. 


190  Cf.  Obras  de  Gutierre  de  Cetina,  edit,  by  D.  Joaquin  Hazanas  y 
la  Eua,  2  vols.  (Sevilla,  1895);  this  edition  contains  a  translation  of 
Dido  's  letter  to  Aeneas,  II,  p.  15. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Eenascence  in  Spain  229 

The  impression  left  by  the  poetry  of  Fernando  de  Herrera, 
el  divino,  is  that  he  more  frequently  than  his  contemporaries 
gives  utterance  to  inherited  expressions  of  pagan  ardor;  typical 
extracts  from  his  sonnets  will  suffice  to  illustrate  this  quality : 

Amor,  si  el  fuego  en  quien  inunda  el  pecho, 
Que  mal  puede  entibiar  la  fria  nieve, 
Con  tus  alas  avivas,  muerto  en  breve 
Sera  tu  ardor,  y  el  corazon  deshecho. 

Procuro,   en   esta  llama   satisfecho, 
Que  sin  cesar  en  mi  su  fuerza  pruebe, 
Porque  del  mal  mi  alma  el  premio  lleve, 
Causando  el  dafio  luengo  algun  provecho. 

Este  suave  incendio  me  sustenta, 
Y    consagra  en  honor  de  mi  Luz  pura 
Mis  entrafias,  que  crecen  apuradas. 

Dichoso  el  corazon  a  quien  alienta 
Tal  virtue!,  que  engrandece  con  ventura 
La  gloria  de  mis  penas  renovadas. 

And: 

La  llama  crece  y  arde,  y  crece  luego 
El  dolor  que  mi  gloria  y  bien  deshace; 
El  pecho  exhala  todo,  y  se  rehace, 
Cual  Ticio,  sin  hallar  algun  sosiego.    etc. 

But  these  sonnets  do  not  represent  Herrera 's  best  work. 

Treatment  of  themes  taken  from  Ovid  is  very  common. 
Cristobal  de  Castillejo  offers  a  free  translation  of  the  song  of 
Polyphemus,  Canto  de  Polifemo,  traducido  de  Ovidio,  a  long 
narrative  poem  of  the  story  of  Piramo  y  Tisbe  which  he  also 
calls  a  translation  from  Ovid,  and  la  fabula  de  Acteon.  But 
Castillejo,  though  unacademic  in  manner  and  form,  did  not 
abandon  the  current  notion  that  these  myths  contained  allegorical 
!  truths.  In  his  translation  of  the  tale  of  Diana  and  Acteon  he 
adds  "la  moralidad  de  la  fabula  precedente, "  explaining  the 
meaning  of  Acteon,  Diana,  the  water  in  which  she  bathes, 
Acteon 's  image  on  its  surface  after  he  has  been  transformed 
into  a  stag,  the  dogs  who  pursue  him,  etc. ;  his  interpretation  has 
some  originality,  but  the  conception  is  saved  chiefly  by  the  light- 
ness and  ease  of  his  verse.  Perhaps  a  humorous  imitation  of 
Ovid's  transformations  may  be  found  in  the  poem  on  the  change 


230  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

of  a  drunkard  into  a  mosquito  Transfiguration  de  un  Vizcaino, 
gran  Bebedor  de  vino.191 

The  learned  Diego  Hurtado  de  Mendoza  closes  a  beautiful 
elegy,  "Si  no  puede  razon  o  entendimiento, "  with  a  poetic  and 
feeling  picture  of  the  descent  of  Orpheus  into  the  realms  of 
the  dead  in  search  of  Eurydice : 

Pudo  Orfeo  con  voz  y  mano  diestra 
Penetrar  a  los  reinos  del  infierno, 

Y  la  gente  mover  que  no  se  muestra. 
La  crueza  veneer  del  mundo  eterno, 

Volver  la  ley  escrita  en  diamante, 

Y  al  oscuro  sefior,  de  duro,  en  tierno. 
Procedio  en  el  cantar  duro  y  constante, 

Estorbando  el  cruel  y  triste  oficio 
Hasta  que  vio  a  su  Euridice  delante; 
Mas  no  espero  a  gozar  del  beneficio 
El  misero  amador  y  mal  sufrido; 

Y  ansi  se  mudo  en  llanto  su  ejercicio. 

Tu  vas  ahora  por  Tracia  desterrado, 
Hinchendo   tierra  y  cielos  con   tu   queja, 

Y  suspiros  mezclando  con  cuidado. 
Ella,  vuelta  en  espiritu,  se  aleja 

Por  extendido  campo  y  yerba  verde, 
Aunque  no  sin  dolor  porque  te  deja; 

Pero  no  que  torna  a  ti  se  acuerde; 
Porque  el  que  pasa  el  agua  del  olvido, 
En  vano  lo  desea  quien  lo  pierde. 

No  la  llames  con  llanto  o  con  gemido, 
Con  ruegos,  sacrificios  y  oraciones; 
Que  todo  la  sera  tiempo  perdido. 

No   con  luengo   discurso   de  razones, 
Ni  con  favor,  destreza  o  violencia, 
No  con  oro,  con  plata  o  ricos  dones, 
Como  una  vez  que  es  dada  la  sentencia. 

5  Mendoza  also  write  a  version  of  the  Fdbula  de  Adonis,  Hipomenes 
y  Atalanta;  it  contains  manifest  reminiscences  from  Ovid.  One 
of  Fernando  de  Herrera's  finest  pieces  for  power  and  lyrical 
beauty  is  his  Elegia  a  Galatea  "El  sol  del  alto  cerco  descendia, " 

i9i  Cf.  The  Life  and  Works  of  Cristobal  de  Castillejo,  the  last  of  the 
nationalists  in  Castilian  poetry,  by  Clara  Leonora  Nicolay  (Philadel- 
phia, 1910);  Castillejo  also  wrote  a  poem,  Didlogo  de  las  condiciones  de 
las  mujeres,  which  belongs  to  the  extensive  literature  on  good  and  evil 
women.    Cf.  pp.  63,  67,  85,  95,  119;  also  note  46. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  231 

which  breathes  the  classic  spirit  in  its  most  perfect  form  and 
reminds  us  that  Ovid's  song  to  Galatea,  put  into  the  mouth  of 
Polephemus,  was  imitated  by  numerous  poets  of  the  Renascence. 
Bartolome  de  Argensola  wrote  many  verses  which  reflect  his 
profound  humanistic  culture,  but  nothing  has  a  finer  character 
than  his  beautiful  Cancion  "De  los  campos  y  mares  se  apodera 
Cefiro, "  which  is  filled  with  motives  taken  from  antiquity,  many 
of  them  from  Ovid : 

El  mismo  Sol  enamorado  pasa 

Tan  risuefio  el  viaje,  que  parece 

Que  persigue  la  Ninfa  de  Peneo: 

Y  para  ostentacion  de  su  deseo, 

La  pompa  de  la  luz  eon  que  amanece 

Tremula   resplandece 

Sobre  las  ondas,  y  las  rosas  dora 

Que  pinto  con  su  purpura  la  aurora. 

The  words  of  Daedalus  to  Icarus  "Por  tierra  estamos  y  por 
mar  cercados"  etc.,  are  from  the  Metamorphoses,  VIII.  183  ff. 
Bartolome 's  brother,  Lupercio,  wrote  a  satire  contra  la  Marque- 
silla,  in  which  he  says  that  he  was  not  obliged  to  use  Ovid's 
precepts  where  conquest  was  such  an  easy  matter: 

Mas,  como  se  de  Ovidio  mal  el  arte, 
No  procure  poner  en  Troya  el  fuego, 
Aunque  te  vi  contenta  descuidarte. 

Juan  de  Arguijo  wrote  a  large  number  of  sonnets  of  which 
several  deal  with  mythological  characters ;  some  of  the  titles  are 
Dido  y  Eneas,  Jupiter  a  Ganymedes,  Psiquis  a  Cupido,  Venus  en 
la  muerte  de  Adonis,  Apolo  a  Dafne,  Sisifo,  Piramo,  and  many 
others.  One  called  Orfeo,  beginning  "Pudo  con  diestra  lira  y 
dulce  canto,"  seems  a  manifest  imitation  of  Mendoza,  quoted 
above.  Garcilaso,  as  we  saw,  also  speaks  of  "los  reinos  del 
espanto, ' '  and  may  have  influenced  both  of  these  poets.  Another 
sonnet,  A  Leandro,  "En  la  pequeiia  luz  de  Sesto  pone  Desde 
el  puerto  los  ojos,  etc, ' '  recalls  those  of  Garcilaso  and  Cetina. 

Menendez  y  Pelayo,  in  his  preface  to  Lope's  El  marido  mas 
firme,  speaks  of  other  versions  of  this  much  used  theme,  among 
them  Juan  de  Jauregui  's  long  poem  entitled  Orfeo.    As  a  whole, 


232  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

it  is  uneven  and  is  probably  read  very  little  today,  but  it  con- 
tains fine  passages  here  and  there,  the  best  of  which  can  be 
conveniently  read  in  Quintana's  Poesias  Selectas  Castellanas. 
Verses  of  great  beauty  and  feeling  may  be  found  together  with 
passages  of  bad  taste,  but  which  are  characteristic  of  the  poet 
who  was  to  succumb  to  the  affectations  of  Gongora.  Of  the 
obscure  poems  of  the  latter  there  is  no  space  to  speak  now;  his 
Polifemo  y  Galatea,  a  serious  attempt,  if  I  have  guessed  cor- 
rectly any  part  of  his  meaning,  affords  as  little  satisfaction  as  the 
burlesque  story  of  Pyramvs  and  Thisbe,  since  the  reader  is  gen- 
erally left  hanging  between  heaven  and  earth  by  the  unintelligible 
puzzles  of  his  imagery. 

Esteban  Manuel  de  Villegas  lived  far  into  the  second  half 
of  the  seventeenth  century.  The  charming  manner  of  the  poems 
of  his  youth  may  be  seen  in  his  Filomena,  though  it  retains  the 
slightly  academic  spirit  of  one  who  loved  the  classics  and  was 
filled  with  the  spirit  of  the  ancient  poets.  The  following  will 
serve  as  an  example : 

Arnada   Filomena, 

Que  entre  aquestos  laureles, 

Con   doliente   armonia 

Signifieas  la  pena, 

Que  los  brazos  crueles 

Del  infame  Tereo 

Obraron   aquel   dia: 

Pues  la  terca  porfia 

Que  aviva  tu  deseo 

En  cantar  mil  pesares 

Por   desiertos   lugares, 

Al  son  de  la  corriente, 

Que  despefia  esta  fuente, 

En  ti  cual  siempre  veo; 

Ya  con  gemido  triste 

Querellandote  al  eielo, 

Ya  con  tacito  vuelo 

Eecelando  la  injuria, 

Que  por  tus  ojos  viste, 

Deten,  deten  la  furia 

En  derramar  querellas, 

Y  a  las  altas  estrellas 

Que  se  nos  muestran  pias, 

Deja  las  tuyas  bellas, 

Canta  las  tristes  mias. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  233 

Villegas  also  made  use  in  his  Idilio,  "Vinieronse  a  juntar  Dafne 
y  Dametas, ' '  of  the  song  of  Polyphemus  to  Galatea. 

This  brings  me  to  the  end  of  my  chapter.  Many  other 
examples  of  the  influence  of  Ovid  could  be  adduced,  but  they 
would  not  differ  greatly  from  any  of  those  already  given.  After 
1  the  middle  of  the  seventeenth  century  his  influence  diminishes 
rapidly:  he  is  supplanted  by  other  books  and  by  the  spirit  of 
a  new  age,  which  replaced  the  conventional  emotions  and  senti- 
ments by  a  more  logical  analysis  of  passion  than  was  generally 
known  to  the  Spanish  Renascence.  A  more  genuine  psychology 
of  our  human  relations  and  of  the  motives  of  our  actions  guided 
poets  and  novelists;  love  and  its  manifestations  became,  in  a 
sense,  more  reasonable  because  they  were  truer  to  real  life,  and 
more  original  in  so  far  as  the  art  of  writing  broke  with  prac- 
tically every  inherited  classical  tradition.  In  the  change  Ovid 
and  his  prestige  were  bound  to  vanish  for  ever. 


234  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 


I 
BIBLIOGRAPHICAL  APPENDIX 

A.  ITALIAN  VERSIONS 

I.  Ars  Amatoria  and  Remedia  Amoris 

Translations  of  the  Ars  amatoria  and  the  Remedia  amoris 
were  frequently  made  into  Italian  during  the  fifteenth  and  six- 
teenth centuries,  and  a  search  in  the  libraries  of  Italy  would 
no  doubt  yield  not  only  more  printed  copies  than  I  am  able  to 
record,  but  manuscripts  also.  The  following  versions  have  come 
to  my  notice : 

1.  In  the  Staatsbibliothek  at  Munich,  sig.  Inc.  c.a.  4to,  677,  a 
small  book  of  six  folios  to  the  signature  (sig.  a-h)  ;  no  title  page, 
beginning  Ouidio  de  arte  amandi  In  vulgar e.  The  poem  then 
follows  without  punctuation,  being  an  abridged  paraphrase  of 
the  Ars  amatoria,  beginning : 

[A]Mor  che  per  dolceza  il  cor  corregge 

laer  la  terra  si  come  alui  piace 

&  anchor  lacqua  per  suo  caldo  regge 
Per  rar  lui  cagione  di   qualche  pace 

di  metter  prompto  lo  mio  intellecto 

che  possa  ogniun  fugir  sua  ardente  face 
lo  mi  conoseo  di  si  pocho  effecto 

e  dignoranza  compreso  il  mio  ingegno 

cha  dogni  picciolo  operaio  son  suggecto 
Ma  amor  mi  fa  di  tante  lande  degno 

che  mostrar  credo  apuncto  sua  natura 

si  come  vulgarmente  qui  desegno 
A  molti  e   difficil  la  lectura 

di  quello  ouidio  lopra  alta  e  sublima 

di  pasti  piu  leggier  alcun  procura 
Come  lu  vedi  in  questa  terza  rima 

aperto  sforzeromi  translatare 

aque  chesser  non  pon  di  si  gran  stima 
Et  lornata  loquela  del  parlare 

iuo  lassar  aquei  che  segue  apollo 

i  quelli  che  con  ragion  san  poetare 
Non  io  che  son  dogni  scientia  brollo,  etc. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  235 

The  paraphrase  is  not  divided  into  books  and  closes  as  follows : 

A  voi  io  priego  sanza  far  dirnoro 

che  vostra  gentileza  non  sisdegua 

doprar  questo  libretto  per  thesoro 
Che  tanto  ben  damore  a  voi  insegna 

&  fa  gentil  licuori  &  da  gran  sete 

&  fa  lamente  di   costumi   pregna 
Et  faui  andar  honeste  &  piu  pulite 

&  diuentar  pietose  e  tanto  humile 

che  sempre  piu  che  laltre  amate  siete 
Piacer  a  voi  non  puo  gia  cosa  vile 

faraui  singular  dall  altra  gente 

ognihor  alzando   meglio   iluostro   stile 
Quelli  che  son  chiamate  piu  valente 

hanno   damor  fuggito   le   fauille 

come  dalchun  che  qui  mitorna  amente 
Idico  di  hercol  forte  anchor  dachille 

paris  iason   dauid   e   salamone 

del  buon  tristan  anchor  e  piu  di  mille 
Po  che  di  tanto  ben  questo  e  cagione 

&  seguene  dilecto  &  gran  virtute 

se  ben  riguardi  il  fin   del  mio   sermone 
Hor  su  diuotamente  per  salute 

prieghi   sifaccia  aquesto  idio   damore 

che  nostre  affection  sian  compiute 
Et   ogniun   di   sua   manza   vincitore 

rimaner  possa  per  questi  mia  versi 

che  mostro  apertamente  allamatore 
Che  van  per  non  saper  del  mondo  spersi. 


Impressum  Eome  per  magistrum  Stephanum  planck  Patauiensem.    Anno 
salutis.     M.  cccclxxxix  vicesima  septima  mensis  Augusti. 

2.  Ovidio  de  arte  amandi  vulgare  historiato  (in  verse),  Ve- 
netia,  1516;  same,  nnovamente  corretto,  Venegia,  1547,  (Brit. 
Mus.) 

3.  Arte  amandi  (en  Italiano  e  historiado,  4° :  es  copia  del 
impreso  en  el  ano  1526),  (sig.  M.  141,  ms.  Bibl.  Nac.  Madrid) 
17th  century? 

4.  De  Rimedi  contro  l' amove,  ridotti  in  ottava  rima  da  M. 
Angelo  Ingegneri,  gli  due  libri  di  Ovidio,  P.  Rosso,  Auignone, 
1576   4°,  (Paris,  Bibl.  Nat.;  Brit.  Mus.;  Bibl.  de  Pal.,  Madrid)  ; 


236  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

same,  Bergamo,  1600,  (K.  K.  Hofbibl.  Vienna)  ;  same,  con 
aggiunta  di  vari  novi  componimenti,  Ventura :  Bergamo,  1604, 
8°,  (Brit.  Mus.)  ;  ef.  also  Egidio  Bellorini :  Note  sulle  traduzioiii 
italiane  dell'  Ars  amatoria,  e  dei  Remedia  amoris  d'Ovidio 
anteriori  al  renascimiento,  Bergamo,  1892. 

II.    Heroides 

1.  E pistole  volgarizzate,  in  octava  rima  (per  Dom.  da  Monti- 
ciello),  Venetia,  1502,  (Hofbibl.  Vienna)  ;  same,  Vinetia,  1508, 
(Brit.  Mus.,  and  Bibl.  Nac.  Madrid). 

2.  Epistole  tradotte  (Carlo  Figiovanni)  Nuovamente  stam- 
pate,  in  Vinegia,  1532.    (Bibl.  Nac.  Madrid). 

3.  Epistole  d'Ovidio,  di  Latino  in  lingua  Toscana  tradotte, 
Venezia,  1547,  (Staatsbibl.  Munich;  also  Brit.  Mus.). 

4.  Epistole :  di  Remigio  Fiorentino,  due  libri ;  editions, 
Vinegia,  1555,  1560,  1571,  1578,  1586,  (Hofbibl.  Vienna)  ;  also 
1604,  (Bibl.  Nac.  Madrid). 

III.    Fasti 
1.  /  Fasti  di  Ovidio,  tratti  alia  lingua  volgare  per  V.  Cartari, 
Vinetia,  1551,  (Brit.  Mus.) 

IV.    Metamorphoses 

1.  Ouidio,  Metamorplioseos  vulgare  (prose  and  allegorized) 
G.  Bonsignore,  Venetia,  per  Zoane  rosso,  1497,  fob.  (Brit.  Mus. 
and  Bodleian  libr.)  ;  another:  Milano  1519,  1520,  (Brit.  Mus.)  ; 
[the  Bodleian  catalogue  mentions  also :  Venetia,  Alex.  di.  Ban- 
doni,  1508,  fol. ;  Georgio  de  Rusconi,  1522,  fob,  cf.  next  below.] 

2.  Tutti  gli  libri  di  Ovidio  Metamorphoseos,  tradotti  dal 
litteral  in  uerso  vulgar  con  le  sue  Allegorie  in  Prosa  (Nicolo 
Agostino)  Venetia,  1522  (Hofbibl.  Vienna;  same  as  copy  in 
Bodl.  libr.?) 

3.  Le  Transformationi  (Lodovico  Dolce),  Vinegia,  1539,  1553, 
1555,  1561  (Brit.  Mus.)  ;  Vinegia,  1557,  1558,  1570  (Hofbibl. 
Vienna). 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  237 

•4.  De  le  Metamorfosi  di  Ovidio,  Libri  III  (Gio.  Andrea  dell' 
Anguillara),  Parigi,  1554  (Brit.  Mus. ;  Bibl.  Nac.  Madrid)  ;  the 
title  subsequently  was  enlarged,  and  the  whole  work  was  printed 
frequently:  Le  Metamorfosi  di  Ovidio,  ridotte  da  Giouanni 
Andrea  dell'  Anguillara  in  ottava  rima,  Vinegia,  1561  (Hofbibl. 
Vienna)  ;  1563,  dedicated  to  Henry  II  of  France  (Brit.  Mus.)  ; 
1569  (Vienna)  ;  1571  (Brit.  Mus.)  ;  1572  (Vienna,  Madrid,  Bibl. 
Nac.)  ;  1575  (Madrid,  Bibl.  Nac.)  ;  1578  (Vienna,  Madrid,  Bibl. 
Nac.)  ;  1579  (Vienna)  ;  1580  (84?)  (Brit.  Mus.)  ;  1584  (Vienna)  ; 
1581  (Hisp.  Soc.  of  Am.)  ;  here  I  note :  di  nuouo  da  esso  riuedute, 
&  corrette.  Con  le  Annotationi  di  M.  Gioseppe  Horologgi  et  con 
gli  argomenti  di  M.  Francesco  Turchi;  1588  (Vienna);  1590? 
(Brit.  Mus.)  ;  1598,  1613,  1617,  1624  (Brit.  Mus.)  ;  1775  (Vien- 
na). The  extraordinary  popularity  of  this  version,  and  the 
influence  it  must  have  exerted  during  the  Renascence  will  justify 
an  example  of  its  style,  la  oella  eta  de  I'oro: 

Questo  un  secolo  fu  purgato  e  netto, 
D'ogni  maluagio  e  perfido  pensiero: 
Vn  proceder  leal,  libero  e  schietto, 
Seruando  ogn'  un  la  fe,  dicendo  ll  uero. 
Non  u'era  chi  temesse  il  fiero  aspetto 
Del  giudice  implacabile,  e  seuero; 
Ma  giusti  essendo  allhor,  semplici,  e  puri, 
Viuean  senz'  altro  giudice  sicuri. 


i\  monte  anchor  non  era  il  pino 
Per  trouar  noue  genti  a  solear  1'onde; 
Ne  sapeano  i  mortali  altro  confino, 
Che  i  proprii  liti  lor,  le  proprie  sponde; 
Ne  curauan  cercare  altro  camino 
Per  riportarui  ricche  merci  altronde. 
Non  si  trouaua,  allhor  citta,  che  fosse 
D'argini  cinta.  e  di  profonde 


Non  era  stato  anchora  il  ferro  duro 
Tirato  al  foco  in  forma  ch'  offendesse, 
Ne  bisognaua  a,  1  'huom  metallo,  6  muro, 
Che  da  1'altrui  perfidie  il  defendesse. 
Tromba  non  era  anchor,  corno,  6  tamburo, 
Che  al  fiero  Marte  gli  animi  accendesse; 
Ma  sotto  un  faggio  l'huomo,  6  sotto  un  cerrv 
E  da  l'huomo  securo  era,  e  dal  ferro. 


238  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

Senza  esser  rotto,  e  lacerato  tutto 
Dal  uomero,  dal  rastro,  e  dal  bidente, 
Ogni  soaue,  e  delicato  frutto 
Daua  il  grato  terren  liberamente. 
E,  quale  egli  uenia  da  lui  produtto, 
Tal  se'l  godea  la  fortunata  gente, 
Che  spregiando  con  dir  le  lor  uiuande 
Mangiauan  come,  e  more,  e  fraghe,  e  ghiande. 

Febo  sempre  piu  lieto  il  suo  uiaggio 
Facea,  girando  la  superna  sfera, 
E  con  fecondo,  e  temperato  raggio 
Eecaua  al   mondo  eterna  primauera. 
Zefiro  i  fior  d'Aprile,  e  i  fior  di  Maggio 
Nutria  con  aura  tepida,  e  leggiera. 
Stillaua  il  mel  da  gli  Elci,  e  da  gli  Oliui; 
Correan  nettare,  e  latte  i  fiumi,  e  i  riui. 

(Met.  I:  edit,  of  1563.) 

5.  Metamorphoses :  Ital.  et  Lat.,  per  Marretti,  in  ottava  rima, 
Venetiis,  1570  (Vienna,  Madrid,  Bibl.  Nac). 

6.  La  vita  et  Met amor foseo  d'Ovidio,  figurato  et  abbreviato 
in  forma  d'epigrammi,  etc.  Lione,  1584  [by  Gabriello  Simeoni? 
(Vienna)]. 

7.  Oratione  d'Aiace  contra  TJlisse,  in  lingua  toscana  tradotta 
(from  Met.  XIII)  8°,  1550?  (Brit.  Mns.) 

B.  FRENCH  VERSIONS 

I.    Ars  Amatoria  and  Remedia  Amoris 
These  have  been  touched  upon  in  part  in  the  resume  of  Ovid 
in  the  Middle  Ages.    Cf .  also : 

1.  La  Clef  d'  amors,  in  Bibliotheca  normannica  (Suchier), 
Vol.  V. 

2.  Les  Echecs  amoureux,  part  of  which  is  a  translation  of 
the  Remedia  amoris  (Koerting),  Leipzig,  1871. 

3.  L'  art  de  aymer  ....  translate  de  latin  en  francoys  avec 
les  sept  ars  liberaulx:  Imprime  nouuellement,  s.  1.  e.  a.  (Hofbibl. 
Vienna). 

4.  L'  art  d'  aimer,  traduit  en  vers  francois,  Paris,  1663,  12°  ; 
vid.  also,  Claude  Nicole,  Les  oeuvres,  Paris,  1662,  12°,  vol.  2 
(Vienna). 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  239 

5.  Das  Verhdltniss  der  Art  d'  amors  des  Jacques  d'  Amiens 
zu  Ovids  Ars  amatoria,  Weida,  1908  (by  Geo.  Kuhlhorn). 

6.  Des  remedes  contre  V  amour,  trad,  en  prose  franeoise  par 
N.  Renouard;  (a  la  suite  des  Metamorphoses),  Paris,  1619  fol. 
(Bodleian  libr.) 

II.    Heroides 

1.  Les  XXI  epistres,  translatees  de  latin  ....  par  Leuesque 
Dangoulesme  (not  1st  edit.),  Paris,  1534;  another  1541  (Hofbibl. 
Vienna). 

III.    Metamorphoses 

1.  Le  Grand  Olympe  des  Histoires  poetiques  ....  en  sa 
Metamorphose,  Oeimre  traduyct  de  Latin  en  Francoys  et  im- 
prime  nouuellement,  Lyon,  1532;  Paris,  1543,  (Vienna). 

2.  Les  XIV  Livres  de  la  Metamorphose,  contenants  V  Olympe 
des  histoires  poetiques,  Paris,  1574,  (Vienna). 

3.  Le  premier  Livre  de  la  Metamorphose  (Clement  Marot) 
vid:  L'  adolescence,  etc.,  Anvers,  1539,  (Vienna);  cf.  also: 
Oeuvres  completes,  (ed.  Jannet),  Paris,  1873,  vol.  iii,  Livres  i  et 
ii,  p.  153  ff. 

4.  Le  proces  d'  Aiax  et  d'  Ulixes,  eontenu  au  trezieme  livre 
de  la  Metamorphose  translate  en  langue  Franeoise  par  Jaques 
Colin,  Paris,  1548,  16° ;  vid :  Le  Livre  de  plusieurs  pieces, 
(Vienna).    Cf.  also,  above,  no.  7. 

5.  Francois  Robert  und  seine  TJbersetzung  der  Metamor- 
phosen  Ovids,  von  Dr.  A.  Leykauff,  in  Miinchener  Beitrage  zur 
romanischen  und  englischen  Philologie,  vol.  xxx,  Leipzig,  1904; 
this  translation  was  made  in  1557. 

C.  SPANISH  VERSIONS  OF  OVID 

In  the  Ilustraciones  y  notas  which  Paz  y  Melia  added  to  his 
edition  of  the  Obras  de  Rodriguez  de  la  Cdmara  (op.  cit.) ,  the 
following  is  of  interest  apropos  of  Nasson  en  el  libro  de  Culice  on 
p.  152:  Dos  glosas  interesantes  de  la  Eneida  romanceada  por 
D.  Enrique  de  Aragon  mencionan  ambas  obras  (de  Culice  and 


240  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

de  Pulice,  the  former  being  an  erratum)  ;  then  after  speaking 
of  Virgil  the  glosa  adds:  Ouidio — Deste  se  fallan  doze  obras 
poeticas  en  estas  partes  despana,  que  son  el  methamorphoseos, 
el  de  ponto,  el  de  faustis,  el  de  vetula,  el  de  arte  amandi ;  el  de 
remedio  amoris,  el  de  las  epistolas,  el  de  las  eroidas,  el  de  lupo, 
el  de  mensa,  el  de  pulice,  el  de  duobus  animalibus ;  aunque  dicen 
que  mas  hizo  (p.  433).  This  is  a  characterstic  mediaeval  record 
in  which  some  confusion  is  evident :  Latin  and  Spanish  titles 
of  genuine  works  stand  side  by  side  with  mediaeval  works  which 
tradition  attributed  to  Ovid.  It  is  difficult  to  determine  whether 
the  writer  of  the  above  glosa  had  in  mind  Spanish  translations 
of  certain  poems,  or  meant  only  Latin  originals.  He  may  have 
had  before  him  Spanish  manuscripts  of  the  Metamorphoseos,  the 
epistolas  or  Eroidas.  By  de  faustis  and  de  mensa,  may  be  meant 
the  Fasti ;  by  de  duobus  animalibus  the  Halieutica  (also  called 
de  piscibus  et  feris)  ;  of  the  de  vetula  I  have  spoken  above;  the 
elegia  de  pulice  (a  mediaeval  poem)  was  perhaps  confused  with 
the  Culex  of  Virgil. 

Gustav  Haenal  is  equally  unsatisfactory.  Cf.  Catalogi 
librorum  manuscript  or  um  qui  in  bibliothecis  Galliae  .... 
asservantur,  Lipsiae,  1830.  Manuscripts  are  mentioned  of  the 
Metamorphoses  of  the  12th-15th  centuries;  of  the  Ars  amatoria 
of  the  15th  and  16th  centuries ;  of  the  Remedia  amoris,  13th  cen- 
tury, and  the  Amores,  15th  century;  of  the  Tristia,  13th-15th 
centuries,  etc.  Translations  are  vaguely  hinted  at:  Ovidius, 
Hispanice,  (Madrid,  col.  972).  Then:  obras,  saec.  xv,  membr. 
fol.  Again,  under  Sevilla  (col.  980)  :  epistolae  (Hispanice)  saec. 
xv,  chart  4 ;  and  under  Toledo,  col.  995 :  epistolae ;  saec.  xv, 
chart  4  (Italice).  The  Epistolae  do  not  always  mean  the  Her- 
oides,  for  they  may  be  the  ex  Ponto  group  (epistolarum  libri  iv). 

I.    The  Ars  Amatoria,  Etc. 

The  character  of  Ovid's  erotic  works  makes  it  likely  that 
faithful  and  complete  translations  were  rarely  undertaken  in 
Spain,  and  such  translations  as  were  made  were  but  seldom 
destined  to  be  printed.    Even  early  manuscripts  of  the  original 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Benascence  in  Spain  241 

texts,  which  may  have  existed  in  Spanish  libraries,  seem  to  have 
disappeared  long  ago,  and  lead  one  to  suspect  that  their  fate 
was  due  to  anti-pagan  fervor  rather  than  chance.  At  all  events, 
unveiled  translations  made  during  the  Renascence  must  have 
found  it  impossible  to  procure  a  license  to  print.  On  the  other 
hand,  there  are  in  the  Biblioteca  Nacional  at  Madrid  several 
Latin  editions  of  the  Ars  amatoria  of  the  sixteenth  century. 

1.  A  cartapacio  in  the  Biblioteca  Nacional,  Madrid  (M.  3915, 
old  M  4)  contains  a  miscellaneous  collection  of  verse  in  a  copyist's 
hand,  of  the  early  seventeenth  century  for  the  greater  part.  It 
is  called  Parnaso  espanol,  and  on  f.  129  may  be  found:  Cap''  1°  : 
Como  an  de  ser  amadas  las  mugeres  en  comun ;  f .  138 :  Cap"  2°  : 
de  como  an  de  ser  amadas  las  libres  y  solteras;  f.  142  (verso)  : 
Cap°  3°:  como  an  de  ser  amadas  las  biudas;  in  all  19  leaves. 
The  poem  is  written  in  ottava  rima,  and  is  not  only  a  paraphrase 
of  Ovid,  but  shows  the  influence  of  the  dispute  and  arguments 
on  the  character  of  love,  which  were  popular  during  the  Renas- 
cence.   First  verses  (f.  129)  : 

Amor   muebe   mi   lengua   y   amor   canta: 
Venus  lleba  la  pluma  con  su  mano  etc. 

Last  verses  (f.  147,  verso)  : 

Y  al  fin  goQando  el  fin  del  fin  de  la  arte, 
heche  con  dulce  fin  cossas  aparte  (sic). 

2.  Another  manuscript  of  the  Ars  amatoria  and  the  Remedia 
amoris  is  indicated  in  Obras  del  M.  Fr.  Luis  de  Leon,  de  la 
orden  de  San  Agustin,  reconocidas  y  cotejadas  con  varios  manu- 
scritos  por  el  P.  M.  Fr.  Antolin  Merino  de  la  misma  orden. 
Tomo  VI,  Las  Poesias.  Madrid,  Por  Ibarra,  1816.  On  p.  xxv 
of  Prologo  del  editor,  the  latter,  in  speaking  of  various  codices, 
says  apropos  of  the  seventh  of  his  list:  Podemos  aiiadir  a  este 
otro  codice  de  la  misma  biblioteca,  que  se  guarda  tambien  en  la 
de  Palacio  [de  Madrid]  y  contiene  .  .  .  .  los  cinco  libros  del 
arte  de  araar,  traducidos  en  octavas  reales,  por  Melchor  de  la 
Serna  Flayre  Benito.  This  led  me  to  look  for  the  translation 
which  still  exists  in  the  Royal  Library.     It  is  bound  together 


242  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

with  various  poems  in  a  volume  bearing  on  the  back  the  title 
Poesias  del  Maestro  Leon.  Leaves  not  numbered;  contains  only 
Exposicion  del  cap.  vi  de  Job  del  M.  Fr.  Luys  de  Leon;  cap.  7, 
Psalmos  38,  50  traducidos  por  el  maestro  Fr.  Luis  de  Leon ;  then 
follows  a  manscript  which  closes  Hasta  aqui  llega  a  lo  que 
parece  La  historia  de  Easis  (copied  about  1600).  Then,  Arte  de 
amor  (traducido  de  ouidio  por  frai  Melchior  de  la  Serna  flaire 
benito  y  predicador  etc.,  in  another  ink)  ;  first  stanza,  book  first: 

Si  alguno  en  este  pueblo  es  yfiorante 
del  arte  de  el  amor,  mi  verso  lea: 
y  leido,  Podra  luego   ser  amante 
disereto  y  alcanzar  lo  que  desea; 
con  arte  buelue  atras  y  ua  delante 
la  naue  a  bela  y  Eemo  en  la  marea 

Y  el  earro  militar  corre  con  ella. 

y  el  que  quisiere  amar  deue  tenella. 

Close  of  book  first : 

Y  aqui  daremos  fin,  pues  vna  parte 
auemos  ya  corrido  de  mi  arte. 

Book  second  (begins)  : 

Vitoria   decid,   decid   ya   vitoria, 
pues   la   presa   tenemos   deseada. 

End: 

Me  boy  a  dallas  luego  sus  preceptos; 
a   lotra   plana   busquen   mis    conceptos. 

Book  third  (begins)  : 

Ai,  mas  an  ya  los  griegos  Eesciuido, 
(with  a  marginal  note:  esta  estancia  esta  mal  treslada;  it  cer- 
tainly makes  little  sense). 


End : 


Escriuan  ellas,  como  los  barones, 
Nason  era  maestro  en  sus  blasones. 


Then:  Los  dos  libros  del  Remedio  del  amor;  book  first  (begins) 

Leyo  amor  el  titulo  y  notado. 

guerra   se  me   apareja,   dijo,  fiera,   etc. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Eenascence  in  Spain  243 

End: 

y  e  dado  a  las  elexidas  tal  memoria 
quanto  birginio  a  la  latina  historia. 

Book  second  (begins)  : 

hasta  aqui  con  la  enbidia  y  su  querella 
lidiamos,  musa:   sigue  tu  Jornada,  etc. 
End: 

yo  acaue:  coronen  a  [blotted]  la  dama: 
ya  el  galan  se  sanara  de  su  llama. 

These  wretched  specimens  show  that  no  poet  wasted  his  time 
on  these  works. 

3.  La  Obra  de  Remedio  amoris  de  Ovidio,  traducida  en 
redondillas  o  coplas  de  quatro  versos ;  pero  no  toda  sino  la 
mitad.  Vid:  Obras  de  Luis  Carrillo  y  Sotomayor,  etc.,  Madrid, 
1611,  2nd  edition  1613,  mentioned  by  D.  J.  A.  Pellicer  y  Safor- 
cada  in  his  Ensayo  de  una  bibliotheca  de  traductores  espafwles, 
etc.,  Madrid,  1778,  p.  124;  cf.  also  Gallardo,  Ensayo  de  una  biblio- 
teca,  etc.,  nos.  1621.  1622 ;  Dieze-Velazquez,  Geschichte  der 
Spanisclien  DicWkunst  (Gottingen,  1769),  pp.  471,  512;  Tick- 
nor,  History,  etc.,  London,  1863,  III,  p.  29,  n.,  on  a  translation 
of  the  Remedia  amoris  by  Venegas  de  Saavedra,  Palermo,  1617. 

D.  Jose  Amador  de  los  Rios,  in  his  edition  of  the  works  of 
the  Marques  de  Santillana,  says,  p.  627 :  Las  obras  cle  este 
famoso  ingenio  [Ovidio]  mas  celebradas  durante  la  edad  media, 
son  el  Ars  amandi  y  los  Metaynorphoseos :  la  primera.  imitada  en 
casi  todas  las  literaturas  modernas,  fue  glosada  doctamente  en 
la  epoca  del  Marques  de  Santillana  por  Alonso  de  Madrigal,  en 
su  traduccion  del  Eusebio  de  los  Tiempos,  etc.  Nicolas  Antonio, 
Bibl.  Vet.  II,  x,  vii  (p.  255,  edit.  1788)  mentions  this  work  by 
Alonso  de  Madrigal  (El  Tostado)  Comentario  sobre  Eusebio  sive 
in  ejus  chronicon,  quinque  voluminibus  Salamanticae  per  Hans 
Gisser,  1506,  in  folio.  Mr.  R.  Selden  Rose,  who  kindly  glanced 
through  this  work  for  me  at  the  Biblioteca  Nacional  at  Madrid, 
found  no  specific  glosses  elucidating  the  Ars  amatoria,  but  an 
infinite  number  of  references  to  the  Metamorphoses,  with  a  few 
to  the  Heroides  and  the  Remedia  amoris.     The  Madrid  copy 


244  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

(1507)  is  presumably  that  mentioned  by  M.  Schiff,  op.  tit.,  p.  48. 
Amador  de  los  Rios  must  have  meant  segunda  instead  of  primera. 

II.  The  Heroides 
In  the  Demost  ration  Historica  del  verdadero  valor  de  todas 
las  monedas  que  corrian  en  Castilla  durante  el  reynado  del  Senor 
Don  Enrique  HI,  etc.,  by  el  Padre  Fray  Liciniano  Saez  (Madrid, 
1796),  may  be  found  a  most  valuable  article  entitled  Coste  de 
los  Libros,  p.  368;  it  contains  a  list  (p.  371)  of  books  which 
Alfonso  the  Learned  borrowed  from  "el  Monasterio  de  Santa 
Maria  de  Naxera  y  Cabildo  de  Albelda."  Among  them  is  men- 
tioned Ovidio,  Epistolas,  called  a  "libro  de  lectura  antigua"; 
it  may  therefore  have  been  in  Latin,  and  not  a  translation, 
though  the  latter  may  have  been  the  case,  since  it  is  given  in 
Spanish,  while  other  titles  are  in  Latin. 
*         *         * 

1.  Gallardo,  Ensayo  etc.,  op.  cit.,  Vol.  I,  no.  108,  gives  under 
Segunda  parte  de  las  Obras,  Que  se  han  podido  hallar  del  Capitan 
Francisco  de  Aldana,  etc.,  Madrid,  1591,  col.  127,  Las  Epistolas 
de  Ovidio,  traducidas  en  verso  suelto;  and  then  Obra  de  amor 
y  hermosura  a  lo  sensual.  The  latter  may  be  related  to  Ovid's 
amatory  works. 

2.  Mejia,  Diego:  Primera  Parte  del  Parnaso  Antartico,  de 
Obras  Amatorias.  Con  las  21.  Epistolas  de  Ovidio,  i  el  in  Ibin, 
en  tercetos,  Sevilla,  1608;  in  the  library  of  the  Hisp.  Soc.  of 
Am. ;  cf .  Gallardo,  no.  2990 ;  mentioned  by  Pellicer,  op.  cit.,  p. 
57 ;  reprinted  in  vol.  xix  of  Coleccion  de  poetas  espaTioles  por  D. 
Ramon  Fernandez,  Madrid,  1789-1820. 

3.  Salva,  Catalogue,  no.  837,  mentions  un  pliego  suelto  el 
cual  no  contiene  sino  la  carta  de  Dido  a  Eneas,  s.  1.  n.  a.  (1525  ?)  ; 
the  catal.  of  Mss.,  Bibl.  Nac,  Madrid,  mentions  Epistola  de 
Dido  a  Eneas  (M.  6.) 

4.  Heroyda  Ovidiana.  Dido  a  Eneas;  Con  Parafrasis  Es- 
pariola,  etc.,  por  Sebastian  de  Alvarado  y  Alvear,  etc.,  en  Bour- 
deos,  1628 ;  not  a  rare  book ;  in  Hisp.  Soc.  of  Am. ;  Vienna ;  Bibl. 
Nac,  Madrid,  etc. ;  Catal.  of  Garcia  Rico,  3806,  1910,  no.  7. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  245 

The  manuscript  catalogue  of  the  Bibl.  Nac.  Madrid,  men- 
tions the  mss.  Epistolas  traducidas  (Q224),  and  Las  Heroidas, 
(Ff.  128)  ;  the  latter,  it  seems,  "se  perdio  en  el  traslado";  the 
former  is  a  handwriting  of  the  close  of  the  fifteenth  century, 
and  is  Rodriguez  de  la  Camara's  version;  cf.  p.  115,  and  note  87. 

III.    The  Metamorphoses 

A  characteristic  entry  is  one  in  the  catal.  of  Mss.  Bibl.  Nac. 
Madrid:  Traduction  del  Metamorfosis  (V.  49),  "falta  hace  ya 
45  anos ! ' '  The  translations  which  the  Marques  de  Santillana 
may  have  had  at  his  disposal  have  been  touched  on  above,  p.  68; 
the  labored  commentaries  of  El  Tostado  on  Eusebius  {op.  tit.), 
contain  much  that  reminds  of  the  moralizations  on  Ovid  handed 
down  from  the  Middle  Ages;  take,  for  example,  such  a  caption 
as  heads  cap.  cxl,  Pt.  IV,  of  the  Comentario :  ' '  Como  se  entiende 
lo  que  dize  ouidio  que  ato  Jupiter  a  Saturno  en  el  infierno. ' ' 

Mention  was   also   made   above   p.    81,   of  the   copy   of  the 
Metamorphoses  in  Gomez  Manrique's  library. 
*         #         * 

1.  The  earliest  translation  printed  in  Spain  is,  as  far  as  I 
am  aware,  the  following:  (Sig.  12098),  Bibl.  Nac.  Madrid; 
begins  f .  a  ii :  A  la  illustrissima  senyora  la  senyora  dona  Ioana 
d' Argon  filla  del  molt  alt  e  potentissim  senyor  don  ferrando 
segon:  nostre  Rey  e  senyor  ab  humil  affeccio  francesch  alegre 
besa  les  dignes  mas;  in  large  8°.  In  two  columns,  let.  got.  On 
f.  E  6,  cclxvii  (numbering  incorrect),  at  close  of  first  col.: 
Acaban  los  quinze  libres  d'transformacions  del  poeta  ouicli :  e  los 
quinze  libres  de  allegories  e  morals  exposicions  sobre  ells  estapats 
en  barcelona  per  pere  miquel.  Benauenturadament  en  espanya 
e  en  los  regnes  d'  arago  regnat  los  inuictissims  e  preclarissims 
don  ferrando  e  dona  ysabel.  any.  Mcccclxxxxiiii.  a  xxiiii  d' 
abril.  Also  in  Brit.  Mus. ;  cf.  Salva,  Catal.,  no.  843.  An  excel- 
lent example  of  its  style  may  be  found  in  the  translation  of  the 
golden  age  (sig.  a  v.  f  iiii)  : 

Seguia  aquesta  creacio  la  primera  edat  aurea  nomenada  qui  de  grat 
sens  iutge  ne  ley  seruaua  dret  y  fe,  les  penes  ressells  e  menasses  anegu 
no  offenien  ne  la  multitud  simple  duptaua  la  cara  del  rigoros  jutge  per 


246  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

algun  crim  comes  perque  sens  regidor  reposadament  viuian;  no  eran  los 
alts  pins  tallats  de  les  mutanyes  ne  per  les  liqnides  ones  de  la  mar 
peregrinant  cercauen  lo  mon,  negu  dels  mortals  conexia  si  no  los  seus 
ribatges.  En  torn  d'les  flaques  forteleses  no  hauia  prof  tide  vail,  viuia  la 
gent  ignorant  trompeta  corn  elm  e  espada  ab  segura  e  reposada  vida  sens 
vs  de  militar  exercici,  la  terra  per  neguns  instruments  tocada  liberalment 
produhia  les  coses  al  viure  dels  homens  necessaries  sens  negiia  fadiga 
d'lls  qui  cotents  dels  meniars  naturalment  creats  cullian  los  fruyts  d'lceps 
saluatges  e  les  erbes  dels  deserts,  les  garrofes  e  mores  e  los  glas  cayet 
d'l  arbre  d'iupiter;  duraua  tosteps  primauera  e  regnat  lo  vet  d'  ponent  ab 
teprat  ayre  produhia  flors  de  diuerses  natures  nades  sens  neguna  semet: 
la  terra  no  leurada  prometia  fertils  messes  e  lo  camp  no  renouat 
blanchaiaua  per  spigues  prenyades  d 'molts  grans,  corrian  rius  de  let  e 
de  dol§esa  e  la  blacha  mel  estillaua  del  vert  romani;  mas  apres  que  lanqat 
Saturno  del  regne  succeliia  ell  iupiter  segui  la  segona  edat  nomenada  de 
argent  pijor  que  la  del  or  e  millor  que  la  del  coure  etc. 

2.  The  first  printed  version  in  Spanish  may  be  called  the 
most  important  of  the  Renascence  in  Spain;  it  must  have  been 
popular  and  widely  read,  since  it  was  very  frequently  reprinted 
during  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries  in  Spain  and  in 
the  Low  Cpuntries.  No  translation  reflects  the  spirit  of  Spanish 
fiction  of  the  times  so  well.  The  title  of  a  copy  in  the  Bibl.  Nac. 
Madrid  (sig.  U  1410  libros  raros)  is: 

Libro  del  Metamorphoseos  y  fabulas  del  excelete  poeta  y  phi- 
losofo  Oiiidio,  noble  cauallero  Patricio  romano :  Traduzido  de 
latin  en  romance.  (Surrounded  by  engravings  representing 
figures  of  Knights  and  ladies,  the  entire  title  page  having  been 
cut  out  of  one  block  of  wood),  s.  1.  n.  a.  but  clearly  of  the  first 
half  of  the  sixteenth  century,  and  presumably  printed  in  Spain. 
In  8°  large,  letra  got.,  parchment,  cxcii  folios,  tabla  (index,  not 
numbered,  of  6  folios)  ;  a.  i,  f.  i,  verso:  Epistola  para  el  yllus- 
trissimo  y  muy  magnifico  seiior  don  Alonso  de  azeuedo  code  de 
Monterey ;  a.  ii,  verso :  Prologo  y  argumento ;  a  viii,  f .  viii,  verso : 
Narracion  breue,  de  todo  lo  que  en  este  libro  se  contiene ;  followed 
by  thirty-two  verses  in  acrostic  arrangement  reading  up  the  page : 
Iorje  de  bustamante  natural  de  sylios ;  b.  i,  f .  viiii,  begins :  Libro 
Primero  del  chaos,  etc.  Compare  also  a  copy  in  the  Staats- 
bibliothek  of  Munich  (sig.  A  Lat.  a  442).  Graesse,  Tresor  de 
livres,  etc.,  vol.  5,  p.  85  f.,  gives  an  edition  in  8°,  Anvers,  1545, 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  247 

which  I  have  not  seen ;  if  it  is  not  an  error,  it  represents  the  first 
dated  edition. 

3.  (2nd  edit.)  Copy  in  Bibl.  Nac.  Madrid,  sig.  R  6630,  re- 
cent parchment  binding  with  the  title : 

Libro  del  Metamorphoseos  y  fabulas  del  excelete  poeta  y  plii- 
losofo  Ouidio,  noble  canallero  patricio  Romano :  traduzido  de  latin 
e  romace.  Agora  nueuamete  corregido  y  ailadido  en  esta  seguda 
impression  Aiio  M.  D.  xlvi.  woodcut :  title  surrounded 
by  Renaissance  ornamentation.  In  8°  large,  letra  got., 
cxcii  folios,  tabla,  (index  not  numbered,  of  6  folios,  6th 
lost ;  sig.  a.  i,  f .  i,  verso :  Epistola ;  a.  ii,  verso :  Prologo  y  argu- 
mento,  through  f .  8,  verso ;  Narracion  breue  omitted ;  b.i,  f .  9  : 
Libro  primero  del  chaos ;  then  the  cxcii  folios  correspond  f .  for  f . 
with  first  edition,  beginning  and  ending  on  the  same  word  with 
very  few  exceptions.  The  type  is  so  slightly  different,  as  to  be 
almost  imperceptible,  save  for  a  few  capitals;  the  dimensions 
of  the  text  are  a  little  larger  than  in  the  above  copy.  Type,  size 
and  general  appearance  indicate  that  it  saw  the  light  in  Spain, 
being  a  slavish  (possibly  clandestine)  copy  of  the  above  (no.  2). 
The  omission  of  the  narracion  breue  and  the  verses  in  acrostic 
arrangement  may  be  accounted  for  either  by  the  fact  that  the 
printer  did  not  realize  that  they  contained  the  translator's  name, 
and  so  attached  no  importance  to  them;  or  the  translator  (if  he 
authorized  this  second  issue)  may  have  been  loath  to  become 
further  known  as  the  author  of  a  version  which  is  hardly  Ovid, 
but  frequently  a  free  paraphrase  with  manifold  additions.  The 
alegorias  of  subsequent  issues  of  this  same  translation  were  no 
doubt  added  to  justify  its  sale  and  to  give  the  work  the  usual 
non-pagan  interpretation.  Copies  of  this  edition  exist  also  in  the 
British  Museum  and  in  Vienna. 

4.  The  British  Museum  has  a  copy  which  calls  itself  the  third 
edition:  letra  got.  303  ff.,  Sevilla,  1550  in  8°. 

5.  Issued  in  the  Low  Countries  with  slight  change  in  title  • 
Las    Metamorphoses,     o     Transformaciones,     del     muy     ex- 

celente    poeta  Ouidio,     repartidas    en    quinze    libros    y  tradu- 
zidas   en   Castellano.      En   Anvers,    en   casa    de   Iuan    Steelsio. 


248  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

M.  D.  L  I.  con  Priuilegio  Imperial,  small  8° ;  copy  in  Bibl.  Nac. 
Madrid,  sig.  R.  12463,  modern  binding ;  A.  i,  verso :  copia  del 
Priuilegio ;  B.  3,  bottom  of  recto :  Narracion  breue,  etc. ;  B.  4, 
Tabla  ;  D.  f .i.,  Libro  Primero ;  236  ff .  in  all,  neat  Latin  type,  same 
text  as  above  (nos.  2,  3  etc.)  with  slight  differences,  such  as 
punctuation,  captions  and  the  like.  [Graesse,  op.  cit.  mentions 
editions  of  Burgos,  1557,  12°  Anvers,  1565,  8°,  Evora,  1574,  12° 
(Brit.  Mus.  8°)  Sevilla  1574,  8°,  which  I  have  not  seen.  An  edit, 
of  Huesca,  1577,  is  in  the  Bibl.  Nac.  Madrid.] 

6.  An  attractive  edition  with  the  allegories  at  the  end  is  the 
following : 

Las     Transformaciones    de     Ovidio    en    Lengua     Espanola. 
repartidas  en  quinze  Libros,   con  las  Allegorias   al  fin   dellos. 
y    sus    figuras,     para    prouecho     de    los     Artifices,     etc.       En 
Anvers,  en  casa  de  Pedro  Bellero  M.D.  XCV.   Con  Priuilegio. 
Not    a   rare   edit.,    copies   exist    in    Brit.    Mus. ;    Yale    Library 
sig.  R.  8723.  Bibl.  Nac.  Madrid.    A.  i,  verso :  copia  del  Priuilegio 
a.  2  recto :  A  Estevan  de  Yvarra  etc.,  signed  by  Pedro  Bellero 
A.  3  :  Prologo  y  argumento ;  b.  2,  verso :  Narracion  ;  b  3 :  tabla 
A.  f .  i :   Libro  primero;   f.  229,   allegorias.      [Other  editions  are 
Madrid,  1622,  1645,  1664  (cf.  Vindel's  Catalogue,  1903,  no.  3334). 
Cf.  also  a  note  in  Purser,  Palmerin  of  England,  London,  1904, 
p.  52,  n.     I  have  found  no  evidence  whatever  that  Hurtado  de 
Toledo  translated  Ovid's  Metamorphoses,  and  it  is  possible  that 
the  sonnet  signed  by  him  and  printed  in  the  Madrid  edition  of 
1622  is  responsible  for  that  belief.] 

Another  translation  is  the  following : 

7.  Los  Quinze  Libros  de  los  Metamorphoseos,  de  el  excelente 
Poeta  Latino  Ouidio.  Traduzido  en  verso  suelto  y  octaua  rima 
por  Antonio  Perez,  con  sus  alegorias  al  fin  de  cada  libro,  etc. 
En  Salamanca,  en  casa  de  Iuan  Pernier  etc.  1580.  Copies  in  Bibl. 
Nac.  Madrid,  Hisp.  Soc.  of  America ;  Gallardo,  no.  3465.  Edition, 
Salamanca,  1589  in  Bibl.  Nac.  Madrid.  A  revised  edition  fol- 
lowed. 

8.  Metamorphoseos,  del  excelente  Poeta  Ouidio  Nasson. 
Traduzidos  en  verso  suelto  y  octaua  rima:  con  sus  allegorias  al 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  249 

fin  de  cada  libro.  Por  el  Doctor  Antonio  Perez  Sigler  natural 
de  Salamanca.  Nueuamente  agora  enmedados,  y  afiadido  por  el 
mismo  autor  vn  Diccionario  Poetico  copiosissimo.  Etc.  (with 
different  dedication)  En  Burgos,  por  Iuan  Baptista  Varesio, 
1609  etc.  Cf.  Pellicer,  Ensayo  etc.,  op.  cit.  p.  22 ;  in  Hisp.  Society 
of  Am. ;  Vienna ;  Brit.  Mus. 
Another  translation : 

9.  Del  Metamorfoseos  de  Ovidio,  en  Otava  Rima  traduzido 
por  Felipe  Mey  Siete  Libros  con  otras  cosas  del  mismo.  En 
Tarragona  por  Felipe  Mey,  1586.  This  translation  is  in  part 
an  imitation  of  Dolce 's  version  and  in  part  of  that  by  Anguillara 
according  to  Mey's  statement  in  his  foreword  Al  lector.  Ga- 
llardo,  no.  3065.  Not  a  rare  book.  Hisp.  Soc.  of  Am.,  Bibl.  Nac. 
Madrid. 

The  following  was  called  by  Ticknor  (op.  cit.,  vol.  II,  500  n.) 
' '  a  happy  translation ' ' : 

10.  Las  Trans  formaciones  de  Ouidio :  Traduzidas  del  verso 
Latino,  en  tercetos,  y  octauas  rimas,  Por  el  Liceciado  Viana.  En 
legua  Castellana.  Con  el  comento  y  explication  de  las  fabulas : 
reduziendolas  a  Philosophia  natural,  y  moral,  y  Astrologia,  e 
Historia,  etc.  Valladolid,  1589  large  8°.  Copies  in  Vienna, 
Yale  Library,  Hisp.  Soc.  of  America.  In  Vienna  there  are  many 
other  printed  translations  of  the  Metamorphoses  of  the  seven- 
teenth and  eighteenth  centuries,  which,  however,  do  not  enter 
into  the  epoch  I  am  treating. 

IV.    Collected  Works 

Obras  de  Ovidio,  traduzidas  y  comentadas  en  castellano  por 
Diego  Suarez  de  Figueroa,  Madrid  1727-38,  12  vols.,  in  4°. 

On  manuscripts  in  Spanish  archives  and  libraries  the  fol- 
lowing work  is  of  the  utmost  importance:  Rudolf  Beer, 
Handsehriftenschatze  Spaniens,  in  the  Sitzungsberichte  der 
Kaiserlichen  Akademie  der  Wissenschaften  (Phil. -Hist.  Klasse), 
vols.  124,  125,  126,  128,  129,  131  (Indices)  p.  68.  The  results 
of  Dr.  Beer  show  that  there  is  but  little  left  of  Ovid  among  the 
manuscripts  found  in  Spanish  libraries. 


250  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.  4 

The  most  complete  bibliography  which  has  come  to  my  notice 
for  critical  works  on  Ovid  can  be  found  in  the  catalogue  of  the 
University  library  of  Munich. 

Related  to  the  Metamorphoses: 

El  Narciso  Flor  traducida  del  Cefiso  al  Betis.  Por  El  licen- 
ciado  Juan  Bermudez  i  Alfaro,  etc.  En  Lisboa,  1618,  cf.  Ga- 
llardo,  no.  1372. 

Historia  de  los  dos  leales  amadores  Piramo  y  Tisbe,  etc.  Por 
Christoual  de  Castillejo,  en  Alcala,  1615.  Cf.  Gallardo,  nos. 
1672,  1674,  and  above,  p.  228. 


An  English  translation  of  Ovid's  works  is  the  following:  The 
Metamorphoses,  the  Fasti,  Tristia,  Pontic  Epistles,  Ibis  and 
Halieuticon;  the  Heroides  or  Epistles  of  the  Heroines,  the  Am- 
ours, Art  of  Love,  Remedy  of  Love  and  minor  works  of  Ovid,  3 
vols.,  Literally  translated  into  English  prose,  etc.,  by  Henry  T. 
Riley,  London:  Geo.  Bell  and  Sons,  1889-90.  A  good  German 
translation,  in  verse,  is  Ovids  Werke.  Berichtigt,  iibersetzt  und 
erklart  von  Heinrich  Lindemann,  Leipzig,  1853-67  ;  I  have  6  vols., 
including  the  Metamorphoses,  Amores,  Ars  amatoria,  Remedia 
Amoris,  Heroides. 

This  list  does  not  claim  to  be  complete :  it  contains  only  such 
titles  as  came  to  my  notice  in  the  course  of  my  investigations, 
and  which  seemed  worth  recording  here.  Practically  all  of 
these  translations  are  not  read  any  more  today,  a  fate  to  be 
attributed  quite  as  much  to  the  passing  of  Ovid's  fame  as  to 
the  mediocre  poetic  gifts  of  the  translators.  But  the  vogue 
which  they  once  enjoyed  will  justify  the  effort  of  having  taken 
them  from  their  shelves  for  a  brief  moment. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  251 


II 

EPISTOLA  VII,  DIDO  AENEAE,  OF  OVID'S  HEROIDES 

IN  A  MEDIAEVAL  SPANISH  VERSION 

The  following  document  is  here  reprinted  because  it  gives 
us  further  evidence  of  Ovid's  prestige  in  the  Middle  Ages;  it  is 
taken  without  change  from  Menendez  Pidal's  edition  of  the 
Primera  Cronica  general,  Estoria  de  Espana  que  mando  com- 
poner  Alfonso  el  Sabio,  vol.  I  (Madrid,  1906),  Nueva  Biblioteca 
de  Alitor es  Espanoles. 

59.  De  la  carta  que  enuio  la  reyna  Dido  a  Eneas. 

La  reyna  Dido,  quando  sopo  que  Eneas  tomaua  aquella  carrera 
tan  luenga,  semeiol  que  no  tenie  en  coragon  de  numqua  tornar 
a  ella;  por  end  llorando  e  faziendo  grand  duelo  e  seyendo  la  mas 
cuytada  que  seer  podrie,  enuiol  su  carta  fecha  en  esta  manera,  e 
dizie  assi  depues  de  las  saludes : 

"Eneas,  mio  marido:  la  razon  quet  yo  enuio  dezir  es  tal 
cuemo  el  canto  del  cigno,  que  se  tiende  sobre  la  yerua  rociada 
e  comienga  de  cantar  un  canto  cuemo  dolorido  a  la  sazon  que 
a  de  morir.  Pero  las  razones  quet  enuio  dezir  yo  en  esta  carta 
no  lo  fago  por  que  entiendo  quet  mouras  ni  que  tu  faras  mio 
ruego  ni  las  cosas  quet  yo  enuio  dezir,  ca  non  quiso  Dios  que  yo 
en  tal  punto  mayuntasse  contigo.  Mas  pues  que  yo  perdi  en  ti 
la  mi  buena  fama  y  el  mi  buen  prez  que  yo  merecia  auer  segund 
los  mios  fechos,  e  perdi  otrossi  el  cuerpo  e  la  mi  castidat  que  yo 
auia  tan  a  coracon  de  guardar  e  la  guardaua  quanto  mas  podia, 
por  muy  mas  ligera  cosa  tengo  de  perder  las  mis  palabras  en  ti. 
Eneas,  yo  se  que  as  puesto  dirte  en  todas  guisas  e  numqua  tornar 
ac.a;  cuemo  pued  esta  cosa  seer  que  tu  te  uayas  e  dexes  a  Dido 
mezquina  y  en  duelo  y  en  cuydado  por  siempref  Vientos  ferran 
en  las  uelas  del  tu  nauio  et  te  leuaran  por  la  mar,  y  essos  uientos 
mismos  me  semeia  que  leuaran  la  tu  fe.  Tu  soltaras  la  flota 
quand  entrares  en  la  mar:  e  bien  alii  soltaras  la  postura  que 
comigo  ouiste,   quebrantandola.     Tu  uas  buscar  los  regnos   de 


252  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

Italia  que  numqua  nist  ni  sabes  o  son,  e  nos  te  uien  emiente  de 
la  noble  cibdat  de  Carthago  e  del  so  mnro  e  de  las  sus  tor  res  que 
crecen  cada  dia  e  son  mas  fermosas,  ni  otrossi  del  mio  grand 
sennorio  que  yo  meti  todo  so  el  to  poder?  Tu  fuyes  de  las  cosas 
feehas  e  demandas  las  que  son  por  fazer.  Busqueste  por  el 
mundo  tierra,  e  f  allestela  qual  tu  la  auies  mester ;  e  agora  desam- 
paras  la  e  uas  buscar  otra  que  no  sabes  qual  la  fallaras.  E  pon- 
gamos  aim  que  la  falles  de  que  te  pagues,  qual  sera  aquel  quet  la 
dara  assi  cuemo  yo  mezquina  te  di  la  mia?  Ni  qui  apoderara 
los  estrannos  e  las  gentes  que  no  connoce  de  so  regno,  cuemo  yo 
mezquina  fiz  a  los  tos  del  mio  por  amor  de  ti,  a  guisa  de  muy 
local  Demas  semeiame  que  auras  a  buscar  otro  amor  nueuo  e 
otra  fe  que  des  a  la  que  amares,  quel  fallezcas  depues  assi  cuemo 
a  mi  fallecist.  E  quando  cuedas  tu  auer  fecha  cibdat  que  semeie 
a  Carthago,  en  que  aya  tal  torre  dond  ueas  todo  to  pueblo? 
Fagamos  cuenta  que  todas  estas  cosas  no  seran  assi  cuemo  yo  e 
dicho,  mas  que  todas  te  uernan  assi  cuemo  tu  cuedas.  quando 
fallaras  muger  quet  ame  tanto  cuemo  yo,  que  muero  por  ti?  ca 
assi  me  quema  el  coragon  el  to  amor  cuemo  quema  el  fuego  las 
cosas  en  que  tanne  la  piedra  suffre ;  de  guisa  que  non  queda  de 
dia  ni  de  noche  de  traer  ante  mi  la  tu  semeianca.  y  en  esto  es 
siempre  mi  cuydado.  Pero  bien  entiendo  que  tod  esto  no  es  al 
sinb  pcrdimiento  de  mio  tiempo  y  encortamiento  de  mi  uida,  ca 
bien  entiendo  que  no  me  oyras  cosa  quet  enuie  dezir,  ni  tornaras 
a  mi  por  ruego  que  te  faga.  E  tal  eres  tu  contra  mi,  que  si  yo 
loca  non  fuesse,  non  te  deuia  amar,  pues  que  tan  grand  mal  me 
quieres.  Mas  dotra  guisa  me  contece :  que  quanto  tu  mas  de  ma1 
me  quieres.  tanto  tamo  yo  mas;  e  cuemo  quier  que  me  querello 
a  ti  mismo  de  la  deslealdat  que  feziste.  numqua  por  esso  contra 
ti  mengua  mi  amor,  ante  crece  cada  dia  mas.  Onde  ruego  yo  a 
Venus,  tu  madre,  e  a  Cupido,  tu  hermano,  que  son  amos  pode- 
rosos  sobrel  amor,  que  ayan  piadat  e  duelo  de  mi,  e  que  ellos  te 
met  an  en  coragon  que  me  ames  quanto  te  yo  amo;  e  si  esto  seer 
non  puede,  que  ellos  aguisen  por  quet  yo  desame  a  ti  tanto  cuemo 
tu  desamas  a  mi  Par  Dios.  Eneas,  mucho  so  yo  en  ti  enartada 
en  cuydar  que  tu  fuste  fijo  de  Uenus.  pues  que  ni  ti  no  a  piadat 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  253 

ninguna  m  amor;  ante  semeia  que  te  fizieron  bestias  fieras  en 
grandes  montes  o  entre  pennas  muy  fuertes ;  ca  tan  grand  crueza 
as  en  to  coragon  contra  mi,  que  sol  non  dnbdas  en  meterte  a 
periglo  de  muerte  por  el  mar  que  anda  muy  brauo.  E,  mez- 
quino,  o  quieres  yr?  No  uees  ell  yuierno  que  te  destorua;  e 
pues  que  al  no  me  presta  contra  ti,  fica  que  no  te  uayas  con 
este  tiempo,  e  siquier  tenga  me  pro  ell  yuierno.  Para  mientes 
a  la  mar  cuemo  la  buelue  el  solano  e  la  faz  andar  sannuda ;  por 
Dios  no  te  metas  en  ella.  E  pues  que  tu  non  quieres  que  yo  a 
ti  ante,  dexa  me  querer  bien  a  las  ondas  que  te  destoruan,  & 
gradecelles  la  tu  ficada,  lo  que  deuia  gradecer  a  ti,  si  tu  por  mi 
lo  fiziesses.  E  si  quier  non  so  yo  tal  por  que  assi  te  deuiesses  yr 
perder  ante  mi  e  prender  muerte,  maguer  la  tu  mucho  mereces, 
grand  malquerencia  es  esta  y  en  grand  precio  la  pones,  quando 
por  foyr  ante  mi  tienes  en  tan  uil  la  muerte.  Para  mientes  que 
los  uientos  de  la  mar,  maguer  que  algunas  uegadas  se  ensannen, 
otra  estan  pagados:  e  vees  ya  cuemo  las  ondas  qucdaron,  y  el  mar 
esta  tan  apaziguado  et  tan  llano,  que  el  dios  de  la  mar  podrie 
correr  sobrella  so  cauallo,  si  quisles;  por  que  yo  cobdiciaria 
mucho  que  el  to  coracon  se  camiasse  cuemo  se  camian  los  uientos 
e  la  mar,  que  son  cosas  que  no  an  sentido.  Mas  la  tu  dureza  es 
mayor  que  no  la  de  los  fuertes  robres  de  los  montes,  ca  sabiendo 
los  periglos  de  la  mar  cuemo  tu  los  sabes,  que  passeste  por  ellos, 
no  me  semeia  que  as  tornado  escarmiento,  ni  dubdas  de  tornar 
y  otra  uez :  siquier  mucho  deuies  temer  la  entrada  de  la  mar, 
ca  maguer  que  la  uees  muy  pagada,  non  sabes  quet  acaecra 
depues  que  fueres  dentro.  E  non  tienes  que  la  fe  y  el  omenaie 
que  tu  quebrantest  que  te  terna  danno  alii  por  non  te  querer  Dios 
ayudar?  Deslealtanga  es  la  cosa  del  mundo  que  mas  destorua 
a  los  omnes  que  la  fazen,  quanto  mas  sobrel  fecho  damor  que  se 
mueue  todo  sobre  fianga  e  de  voluntad.  Demas  tu  sabes  que 
Uenus,  que  tenemos  por  deessa  damor,  en  el  mar  nacio,  e  a  y 
grand  poder,  e  muchas  uezes  toma  alii  uenganga  de  los  falsos 
amadores  e  daquellos  que  la  desonran,  quotes  quier  que  sean. 
E  por  ende  e  yo  miedo,  que  maguer  te  perdudo,  que  aguisara  ella 
cuemo  te  pierda  mas,  e  que  por  mi  razon  uerna  mal  al  quem  lo 


254  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology        [Vol.4 

faze;  e  que  la  su  piedat  de  la  deessa  guisara  que  el  nauio  del 
mio  enemigo  quebrara,  e  morra  el  en  la  mar.  Pero  pues  que  a 
perder  te,  mas  querria  que  fues  seyendo  tu  uiuo  que  muerto. 
E  lo  mas  guisado  es  que  yo  muera  por  que  me  tu  desamparas, 
e  que  seas  tu  achaque  de  la  mi  muerte,  que  non  que  tu  por  mi 
muriesses.  Mas  dim  agora  sis  acaeciesse,  lo  que  por  uentura  non 
sera,  que  tormenta  se  leuantasse  en  la  mar,  por  que  tu  uiesses  la 
muert  a  oio  que  uoluntad  te  semeia  que  auries  estonce,  o  que  se 
te  antoiarie  quando  se  te  menbrasse  los  preyuros  e  las  mentiras 
que  me  tu  dexiste  por  la  tu  falsa  lengua,  por  que  me  enganneste? 
E  alii  se  parara  ante  tos  oios  la  ymagen  desta  tu  mugier  mezquina 
muy  trist,  com  aquella  que  fue  engannada  falsamientre  e  depues 
desamparada ;  e  antoiar  se  ta  com  esta  delante  ti  descabennada 
e  toda  sangrienta,  y  estonce  diras  que  quanto  periglo  e  quanto  mal 
te  uiene,  que  todo  lo  tu  mereciste ;  e  aun  te  digo  mas,  que  si  rayos 
cayeren  del  cielo,  siempre  te  tembras  que  ferran  en  ti  por  la 
falsedat  quern  fezist.  Por  quet  ruego  que  dexes  passar  este 
tiempo  brauo  e  amansar  la  mar,  maguer  que  tardes,  ca  buena 
es  la  tardanca  que  faz  la  carrera  segura.  E  que  tod  esto  quet 
yo  ruego  no  lo  fiziesses  por  mi,  denies  lo  fazer  por  Julio  to  fijo, 
que  es  tan  pequenno,  que  lieuas  eontigo:  e  tengo  que  assaz  auie 
de  matar  a  mi  sola,  e  por  que  quieres  matar  a  elf  Ni  otrossi  que 
merecio  Ascanio,  ell  otro  to  fijo  que  lieuas  eontigo,  por  que  muera 
en  el  mar?  Ni  las  reliquias  de  los  tos  dioses,  que  dizes  que 
saqueste  de  los  fuegos  de  Troya,  por  que  quieres  que  se  pierdan 
en  las  ondas  del  mar?  Mas  no  es  uerdat  lo  que  tu  dizes,  ca  ni 
las  saqueste  daquel  logar,  ni  tomest  en  tos  ombros  los  huessos 
de  to  padre  el  vieio,  como  tu  andas  cbufando.  Mas  la  tu  lengua 
numqua  dize  si  no  mentira  e  falsedat,  e  numqua  te  en  al  trabaiest 
sino  dengannar ;  e  non  so  yo  la  primera  que  tu  engannest  ni  mal 
troxist  con  tus  falsas  iuras.  Pero  un  conort  e :  que  quando 
algunos  dixieren:  o  es  la  madre  deste  fermoso  Julio?,  que  diran 
los  que  saben  la  uerdat  cuemo  es  muerta,  e  que  Eneas  el  so  cruel 
marido  la  desamparo,  por  que  se  ouo  clla  a  matar.  Par  Dios,  no 
eran  estas  las  cosas  que  me  tu  dizies  quando  estauas  comigo,  ni 
el  mio  coragon  no  creye  que  numqua  yo  eontigo  a  estas  cosas 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  255 

llegaria.  Mas  el  tuerto  que  yo  de  ti  recibo  todel  mundo  lo  ueye, 
cuemo  quier  que  lo  yo  merezco  por  que  escogi  a  ti,  e  por  end 
la  pena  que  yo  por  ello  recibre,  mucho  sera  menor  que  la  culpa. 
Mas  pero  non  dubdo  yo  que  piadat  no  ayan  de  mi  los  dioses,  e 
que  me  non  den  derecho  de  ti  por  mar  o  por  tierra,  por  o  tu  as 
andado  bien  a  siete  annos  desterrado  e  sin  ningun  conseio,  por 
quet  ouo  a  echar  la  tempestad  de  la  mar  al  mio  puerto  o  te  yo 
falle  qual  tu  sabes,  pobre  e  muy  lazrado;  e  tomet  por  sennor  de 
mi  e  de  toda  mi  tierra,  e  meti  los  mios  grandes  regnos  so  los  tus 
pies ;  y  esto  fiz  sin  ninguna  tardanga,  assi  que  apenas  auia  oydo 
el  to  nombre,  ni  sabia  qual  tu  eras,  e  aun  sin  tod  esto,  fiz  te  sennor 
de  mis  riquezas,  que  son  tan  grandes  cuemo  tu  sabes.  E  plogui- 
esse  a  Dios  que  tod  aquesto  to  ouiesse  yo  dado  e  mas,  en  tal  que 
no  ouiesses  auido  en  to  poder  mio  cuerpo,  que  yo  tenia  muy 
guar  dado  e  con  muy  buen  prez  e  sin  toda  mala  fama!  En 
fuerte  punto  ui  yo  aquel  dia  que  te  yo  sali  recebir,  e  nos  tomo 
grand  lluuia  en  la  carrera,  e  ouimos  nos  a  meter  so  una  penna, 
o  me  tu  mouiste  primeramientre  pleyto  que  casaries  comigo. 
Ay  mezquina!  cuemo  me  mienbra,  que  fablando  en  aquella  razon, 
oy  unas  uozes  com  en  el  cielo,  e  semeiome  cantar  de  mancebas, 
mas  en  manera  cuemo  que  dauan  gritos;  e  bien  entendi  que 
no  eran  cant  ares  dalegria,  mas  bien  creo  que  fuessen  las  endi- 
cheras  dell  ynfierno,  a  que  llaman  los  gentiles  deessas  rauiosas 
por  que  fazen  los  coragones  de  los  omnes  rauiar  de  duelo;  e 
bien  creo  que  ellas  fizieron  aquellas  sennales  por  mostrarme 
qual  auie  a  seer  el  mio  fado.  0  tu,  castidat,  a  que  yo  quebrante, 
toma  derecho  de  mi,  e  pena  me!  E  tu,  Acerua,  el  mio  marido 
leal,  uen  agora  e  uengate  de  mi,  e  dame  tus  penas  a  las  que 
yo  quier o  yrl  Ay  mezquina  e  llena  de  uerguenca !  yo  tengo 
en  el  mio  palacio  de  marmol  las  tus  reliquias  sagradas,  y  estan 
cubiertas  de  foias  de  ramas  uerdes  e  de  panno  de  lana  bianco, 
e  dalli  oy  yo  uozes  que  me  llamaron  quatro  uezes,  e  connoci 
que  era  mio  marido  que  me  dixo  en  uoz  delgada:  "Elisa,  uente 
pora  mi."  E  yo,  Dido  mezquina,  no  me  tardo  e  uo  me  pora 
ti,  mio  marido,  cuemo  mugier  quet  esto  debdor  de  lo  fazer;  y 
en  cuanto  me  tardo  no  es  sino  por  uenganga  que  quiero  tomar 


256  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

de  mi  misma  por  ell  yerro  que  fiz  contra  ti.  Mas  pero  deues 
me  perdonar  en  tanto,  ca  si  yo  case,  fiz  lo  con  omne  onrado  e 
de  gran  guisa  e  fijo  de  deessa,  e  que  ouiera  padre  uieio,  e  bon 
omne  e  onrado,  e  otrossi  auie  fijos,  por  que  toue  que  no  era 
omne  mouedizo,  mas  que  me  ternie  lo  que  me  prometiesse,  e  que 
ficarie  comigo  pues  que  fuessemos  casados.  Onde  si  yo  erre, 
por  esto  fiie  e  por  las  yuras  grandes  quern  el  fizo  que  numqua 
me  fallirie,  e  me  dio  su  fe  lo  mays  otorgadamientre  que  omne 
podrie  ningun  pleyto  affxrmar,  yurando  me  por  todo  los  dios 
de  nuestra  ley  que  numqua  desto  me  fallegrie.  Mas  la  mi 
malandanca,  que  comenco  comigo  con  el  marido  primer o  que 
eramos  amos  dun  linage,  numqua  se  de  mi  partio,  fasta  quern 
aduxo  a  casar  con  estotro  que  era  estranno,  e  aim  me  dura  con 
el  fasta  quern  adura  a  la  muerte.  Ay  mezquina!  quanto  mal 
ma  uenido  en  este  mundo!  Mataron  me  mi  marido  Acerua 
antell  altar,  ueyendo  lo  mios  oios,  y  esto  fizo  mio  hermano  el 
reyj  e  depues  andut  desterrada  de  la  tierra  de  mio  padre,  o 
naci  e  crie  e  o  dexe  los  huessos  de  mio  marido,  e  uin  las  fuertes 
carreras  de  la  mar,  segudando  me  huestes  de  enemigos,  e  aribe 
a  tierras  agenas  y  entre  yentes  estrannas,  que  me  non  connocien; 
e  non  quiso  Dios  que  muriesse  a  manos  de  mio  hermano  ni  en 
la  tormenta  de  la  mar,  e  aduxom  a  esta  ribera,  e  diom  esta  tierra 
que  yo  di  a  ti,  Eneas  el  desleal,  e  tal  tierra  que  auia  comprado 
por  mio  auer;  e  poble  en  ella  noble  cibdat,  e  cerquela  de  muros 
e  de  torres,  e  fiz  en  ella  tal  obra  que  me  ouieron  enuidia  todos 
mios  uezinos,  por  que  me  cometieron  de  guerras  en  que  ouo 
muchas  lides;  c  a  todo  me  deffendi  bien,  cuemo  quier  que  era 
muger  estranna  e  sennera;  e  cometieron  me  tan  de  rrezio  e  tan 
assoora,  que  sol  apenas  uuie  poner  puertas  a  la  cibdat  con  que 
me  deffendiesse  de  los  enemigos.  Grand  cosa  fue,  Eneas,  duna 
muger  poder  se  defender  contra  tantos  enemigos,  e  non  se 
poder  defender  a  la  tu  lengua  sola.  Mil  omnes  de  much  alta 
guisa  se  pagaron  de  mi  e  demandaron  me  por  casamiento,  e  non 
quis  a  ninguno  dellos  tornar  cabeca,  de  que  so  oy  muy  desamada, 
e  mayor  mientre  por  que  escogi  a  ti  entre  todos  ellos  e  te  tome 
por  marido,  omne  estranno,  que  non  sabia  quien  era.     Eneas, 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  257 

pues  que  as  tamanno  sabor  de  me  matar,  por  que  no  me  meties 
en  mano  de  Jarba,  rev  de  los  getulos,  que  me  matarie  muy  de 
grado,  por  que  dexe  a  el  e  tome  a  ti;  o  en  las  manos  de  mi 
hermano  Pigmalion,  rey  de  Tiro,  que  aurie  otrossi  muy  grand 
sabor  de  me  matar  por  que  sali  de  la  tierra  sin  so  grado,  ym 
troxe  ell  auer  de  mio  marido.  Eneas,  dexa  essos  dios  y  essas 
reliquias  que  lieuas,  ca  ensuziaslas  con  la  tu  falsedat,  e  bien 
deues  tu  saber  que  la  suzia  mano  non  pued  onrar  las  cosas 
santas;  mas  yo  bien  tengo,  que  si  ellas  santas  cosas  son,  non 
quisieran  que  las  tu  sacasses  de  los  f  uegos  de  Troya :  antes  se 
dexaran  y  quemar.  E  falso,  lleno  de  nemiga,  por  uentura  dexas 
a  Dido  prennada,  e  bien  deues  entender  que  si  yo  agora  muero, 
que  morra  la  criatura  comigo,  pues  cuemo  no  as  duelo  e  piadat 
de  matar  a  amos  a  dos?  Ca  pongamos  que  merezco  yo  todo 
aquel  mal  quern  tu  quieres,  que  merecio  ell  hermano  de  Yulo 
que  aun  no  es  nacido?  E  semeiame  que  quieres  dar  a  amos 
una  pena  en  sacarnos  en  un  ora  del  mundo,  Eneas,  el  poder  que 
a  aquel  dios  que  te  faze  yr  daquende,  quisiera  yo  quel  ouiesse 
otrossi  quet  fiziesse  que  numqua  aca  ouiesses  uenido,  ni  follasse 
tierra  dAffriea  el  linage  de  Teucro  dond  tu  uienes.  Mas  ruego 
yo  a  aquel  dios  quet  aca  aduxo  de  tantas  tierras,  e  te  guio  con 
muy  fuertes  tormentas  por  la  mar,  que  el  me  de  derecho  de  ti. 
Par  Dios,  Eneas,  por  seer  oy  la  cibdat  de  Troya  tan  grand  cuemo 
era  seyendo  Ector  uiuo,  adur  la  deuies  tu  querer  yr  ganar  por 
dexar  a  mi  e  lo  que  te  yo  auiadado,  e  yo  buscar  lo  ageno,  e  nod 
sabiendo  a  que  logarl  Ya  nos  te  mienbra  el  rio  Simoenta  de 
Troya  dond  eres  natural,  e  uas  buscar  las  aguas  del  Tibre? 
E  aun  que  lo  falles,  cuemo  huespet  seras  o  quier  que  llegues, 
e  no  natural ;  e  que  te  faga  agora  buenos  uientos  en  la  mar,  e 
que  se  ayuden  muy  bien  tos  nauios  de  rimos,  apenas  llegaras 
a  aquella  tierra  o  tu  quieres  yr,  si  no  seyendo  muy  uieio,  quando 
te  no  aura  ya  pro  plazer,  si  en  ella  te  fizieren.  Por  end  mas 
te  ualdra,  Eneas,  que  fiques  e  tomes  lo  que  es  cierto  e  dexes  lo 
que  no  lo  es;  e  recib  tod  estos  pueblos  en  arras,  quet  yo  do  las 
que  tu  deities  a  mi  dar;  e  sin  tod  esto,  te  fare  sennor  del  grand 
thesoro  que  yo  adux  de  tierra  del  rey  Pigmalion,  mio  hermano, 


258  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

por  que  diga  tod  el  mundo  que  cuemo  ya  ouist  grand  bien 
andanca  en  Troya,  que  la  as  agora  mayor  en  esta  Carthago 
Thiriana  que  poblamos  los  de  Thiro,  en  que  umras  onradamien- 
tre  cuemo  rey,  teniendo  contigo  todos  los  santuarios,  e  auiendo 
los  sennorios  de  la  tierra.  E  si  por  auentura  te  uas  con  cobdicia 
de  guerra  por  fazer  plazer  a  to  fijo  Ascanio  que  ama  lidiar, 
no  me  desampares  por  esso,  ca  yo  te  dare  carrera  por  o  falles 
asaz  o  lidies :  y  esto  es  que  tomes  los  mios  enemigos  por  tuyos, 
aquellos  que  yo  gane  por  ti;  ca  en  esta  tierra  fallaras  asaz 
carrera  pora  paz  e  pora  guerra  cada  que  quisieres,  e  otrossi  pora 
auer  uicio  e  pora  affan  darmas ;  y  en  todas  maneras  fallaras  y 
abondo  de  las  cosas  que  mester  ouieres.  Por  que  te  ruego  yo- 
por  ell  alma  de  to  padre  e  por  las  armas  de  Cupido,  to  ermano, 
e  por  los  omnes  buenos  que  andan  contigo  fuyendo  por  las  tierras, 
e  por  los  dios  de  Troya  de  quien  tu  traes  las  reliquias,  e  por  que 
los  tuyos  sean  siempre  uencedores  e  que  los  ayude  Mars,  dios 
de  las  batallas,  en  todos  sos  fechos  de  guerra  e  sea  siempre  de 
la  su  parte,  assi  que  numqua  grand  danno  tomes  de  tos  enemigos, 
mas  que  seas  siempre  uencedor,  e  uiuas  muchos  annos  con  grand 
bienandanca  tu  e  Ascanio,  to  fijo,  e  que  los  huessos  de  to  padre 
Anchises  yagan  siempre  en  paz  e  onradamientre  en  el  to  sen- 
norio,  assi  que  numqua  sean  ende  mudados-  que  tu  hayas  duelo 
de  mi  e  piedat  de  la  casa  que  tan  de  liger  se  metio  en  to  poder. 
E  demos  no  as  por  que  me  querer  mal  quando  lo  bien  catares, 
ca  numqua  fiz  otro  yerro  contra  ti  si  no  que  te  quiero  bien,  ca 
non  so  yo  Elena,  natural  de  Miscenas  de  Grecia,  que  ayuntasse 
ell  amor  de  mio  marido  con  otro,  cuemo  ella  fizo  que  ayunto  ell 
amor  de  Menalao,  so  marido,  con  el  de  Paris;  esto  es  cosa  que 
yo  no  faria  en  ninguna  manera,  ca  desque  el  to  amor  oue,  numqua 
otro  con  el  ayunte,  ni  fare  mientre  uiua.  E  por  este  uiure  muy 
uiciosa  contigo,  o  por  el  prendere  muy  crua  muerte.  E  si  as 
uerguenca  de  seer  yo  tu  mugier  linda,  ten  me  por  barragana  o 
siquier  por  huespeda,  ca  solamientre  que  te  non  uayas  e  yo  fique 
por  tuya,  con  tanto  sere  pagada.  Eneas,  yo  connosco  bien  los 
mares  que  fieren  en  las  riberas  dAffrica,  e  se  com  an  tiempos 
ciertos  que  pueden  por  ellos  marear  e  otros  por  que  no ;  onde 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  259 

te  ruego  e  te  conseio  que  te  non  uayas  y  esperes  tiempo,  et 
estonce  auras  meior  carrera,  e  podras  yr  mas  ayna  o  quisieres, 
ca  bien  uees  quand  sannuda  anda  la  mar  que  todas  las  ouas  e  las 
arenas  arranca,  que  son  cosas  que  destoruan  mucho  el  correr 
de  los  nauios,  e  por  end  no  te  auentures  en  esta  sazon  a  periglo 
de  muerte,  e  manda  a  mi  que  te  cate  tiempo;  pero  si  lo  fizieres, 
digo  te  que  mas  tarde  iras.  E  maguer  que  esto  te  digo,  quando 
yo  entendiere  que  es  sazon,  non  te  dexare  folgar  fasta  que  te 
uayas;  mas  agora  not  lo  conseio.  E  siquier  no  fuerces  los  caua- 
lleros  e  las  otras  tus  compannas  que  quieren  aqui  atender  est 
yuierno,  e  aun  demas  la  flota  que  esta  mal  parada,  que  conuien 
ques  adoben  antes  los  nauios.  Onde  ruego  te  que  pares  mientes 
si  fiz  yo  alguna  cosa  por  ti,  o  puedo  fazer  daqui  adelante,  por 
que  merezca  que  me  des  tan  poco  de  tiempo  cuemo  te  yo  pido, 
ca  en  esta  sazon  nos  deurie  meter  ninguno  sobre  mar,  sino  omne 
desesperado  que  quisiesse  yr  morir  o  se  perder.  E  si  quier  deuies 
lo  fazer  por  me  mostrar  algun  poco  damor;  que  mientre  se 
amansan  las  mares,  que  pudiesse  yo  amansar  el  mio  coracon  del 
grand  amor  que  te;  y  entre  tanto  ire  aprendiendo  cuemo  me 
pueda  afazer  a  tristeza  e  a  coyta,  y  esforcare  mio  coracon  de 
guisa  cuemo  lo  pueda  soffrir.  Pero  si  desto  no  as  sabor  e  quieres 
en  todas  guisas  que  muera,  digote  que  esta  crueza  nom  la  puedes 
mostrar  grand  tiempo,  ca  luego  me  quiero  librar  de  luenga  pena. 
Ay  Eneas!  agora  asmasses  tu  en  tu  uoluntad  o  se  te  parasse 
ante  los  tos  oios  la  mi  figura,  de  cuemo  yo  esto  escriuiendo  esta 
carta,  teniendo  sobre  los  mios  inoios  la  espada  que  me  diste, 
que  troxieras  de  Troya,  corriendo  de  los  mios  oios  lagremas  que 
caen  sobrella ;  mas  en  uez  de  lagremas  ayna  cadran  y  gotas  de 
la  mi  sangre,  si  tu  conseio  no  das  a  esta  mi  coyta.  Par  Bios, 
Eneas,  bien  acuerda  est  espada  con  el  gualardon  que  tu  me  das, 
ca  en  el  fecho  parece  quern  la  dist  con  que  me  matasse.  Lexa 
estar,  ca  si  me  no  uales,  yo  aguisare  que  con  poca  despensa  se 
cumpla  todo  esto.  E  non  tengas  tu  que  el  mio  coracon  sea  llagado 
agora  primeramientre,  ca  siempre  lo  fue  desque  te  yo  ui,  de  muy 
fuert  amor.  Anna  mi  hermana,  mi  hermana  Anna,  tu  eres 
sabidor  de  todo  mio  fecho,  si  yo  en  alguna  culpa  yago;  e  por 


260  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.4 

end  quand  yo  fuer  muerta,  tomares  el  mio  cuerpo  e  fazellas 
ceniza  segund  ell  uso  de  los  omnes  dalto  linage;  mas  en  el 
luzillo  ol  metieres,  no  escriuiras  aqui  yaze  Elisa,  muger  de  Acerua 
el  Sicheo ;  mas  entallaras  en  el  marmol  letras  que  digan  assi : 

'Prebuit  Eneas  et  causam  mortis  et  ensem 
ipsa  sua  Dido  concidit  icta  manu. ' 

Que  quier  dezir  assi  en  lenguage  castellano : 
Eneas   dio   espada-  e  achaque   de  llano 
por  que  Dido  coytada-  se  niato  con  su  mano. ' ' 


The  unitalicized  portion  of  the  above  approximately  repre- 
sents the  seventh  Epistle  of  the  Heroides.  It  is  at  times  very 
difficult  to  see  how  the  Spanish  author  hit  on  the  translation  set 
down,  but  I  have  generally  given  him  the  benefit  of  the  doubt, 
setting  in  italics  only  those  passages  which  seem  to  me  either 
unlike  the  original  or  wholly  wanting  in  it.  Many  of  the  latter 
have  the  character  of  an  incorporated  commentary,  or  mere 
padding  to  make  the  reading  clearer.  It  is  evident,  too,  that 
the  translator  was  not  a  latinist,  and  that  his  understanding  of 
classical  antiquity  was  the  usual  mediaeval  one.  Several  verses 
of  the  original  were  omitted  from  the  Spanish  version.  Never- 
theless, the  translation  is  very  evidently  based  on  the  original, 
presumably  the  copy  referred  to  as  Epistolas,  and  borrowed  by 
King  Alfonso  from  the  monastery  of  Santa  Maria  de  Naxera 
(Saez,  op.  cit.  p.  371,  cf.  Bibliographical  Appendix.) 

Characteristic  examples  of  translation  are  the  following; 
where  the  Latin  original  has 

Nee  nova  Carthago,  nee  te  crescentia  tangunt 
Moenia,  nee  sceptro  tradita  summa  tuo.    (11-12.) 


the  Cronica  says : 

e  nos  te  uien  emiente  de  la  noble  cibdat  de  Carthago  e  del  so  muro 
e  de  las  sus  torres  que  crecen  cada  dia  e  son  mas  fermosas,  ni  otrossi  del 
mio  grand  sennorio  que  yo  meti  todo  so  el  to  poder. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  261 

Here  a  few  added  embellishments  are  apparent.     On  the  other 
hand,  the  verse 

Quis  sua  non  notis  arva  tenenda  dabit?      (16.) 

is  rendered  by 

Ni  qui  apoderara  los  estrannos  e  las  gentes  que  no  connoce  de  so  regno 
cuemo  yo  mezquina  etc? 

In  the  passage 

Uror,  ut  inducto  ceratae  sulfure  taedae: 

Ut  pia  fumosis  addita  tura  focis. 
Aeneas  oculis  semper  vigilantis  inhaeret: 

Aenean  animo  noxque  diesque  refert.     (23-26.) 

the  Spanish  omits  verse  24  and  we  find : 

ca  assi  me  quema  el  coraqon  el  to  amor  cuemo  quema  el  fuego  las  cosas 
en  que  tanne  la  piedra  suffre;  de  guisa  que  non  queda  de  dia  ni  de  noche 
de  traer  ante  mi  la  tu  semeianga  y  en  esto  es  siempre  mi  cuydado. 

The  translator  did  not  consider  Ascanius  and  lulus  the  same 
person.    Ovid  has 

Nee  mihi  tu  curae;  puero  parcatur  Iulo.     (v.  75.) 
and 

Quid  puer  Ascanius,  quid  di  meruere  Penates'?    (v.  77.) 

The  Cronica  reads: 

E  que  tod  esto  quet  yo  ruego  no  lo  fiziesses  por  mi,  deuies  lo  fazer  por 
Julio  to  fijo,  que  es  tan  pequenno,  que  lieuas  contigo;  e  tengo  que  assaz 
auie  de  matar  a  mi  sola,  e  por  que  quieres  matar  a  el?  Ni  otrossi,  que 
merecio  Ascanio,  ell  otro  to  fijo  que  lieuas  contigo,  por  que  muera  en 
el  mar? 

A  passage  difficult  to  render  was  apparently  the  one  dealing 

with  the  Furies : 

Audieram  vocem:   nymphas  ululasse  putavi; 
Eumenides  fatis  signa  dedere  meis.     (95-96.) 

The  following  appears  to  be  mostly  commentary : 

Ay  mezquina!  cuemo  me  mienbra,  que  fablando  en  aquella  razon,  oy 
unas  uozes  com  en  el  cielo,  e  semeiome  cantar  de  mancebas,  mas  en 
manera    cuemo    que    dauan    gritos;    e   bien    entendi    que    no    eran    cantares 


262  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

dalegria,  mas  bien  creo  que  fuessen  las  endicheras  dell  ynfierno,  a  que 
llaman  los  gentiles  deessas  rauiosas  por  que  fazen  los  coracones  de  los 
omnes  rauiar  de  duelo;  e  bien  creo  que  ellas  fizieron  aquellas  sennales  por 
mostrarme  qual  auie  a  seer  el  mio  fado. 

A  good  Christian  evidently  translates  fratique  elapsa 
fretoque  (v.  117),  with  "non  quiso  Dios  que  muriesse  a  manos 
de  mio  hermano  ni  en  la  tormenta  de  la  mar,"  while  the  simple 
verse : 

Nunc  levis  eiectam  continet  alga  ratem  (172), 

is  rendered  as  follows : 

Ca  bien  uees  quand  sannuda  anda  la  mar  que  todas  las  ouas  e  las 
arenas  arranca,  que  son  cosas  que  destoruan  mucho  el  correr  de  los  nauios, 
etc. 

Acerua,  Acerua  el  Sicheo  is  given  as  the  name  of  Dido's  hus- 
band.   "Mataron  me  mi  marido  Acerua  antell  altar"  renders: 
Occidit  [internas]  coniux  mactatus  ad  aras.     (113.) 

But  internas  is  a  suggested  emendation  for  a  meaningless  word 
in  most  manuscripts ;  perhaps  the  translator  took  it  to  read 
aceruas  and  translated  it  as  a  proper  name. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  263 


III 

THE  LIFE  OF  OVID  ADDED  BY  FERNAN  NUNEZ  TO  HIS 

COMMENTARY  ON  JUAN  DE  MENA'S 

LABERINTO  DE  FORTUNA 

Publio  Ouidio  Nason:  Este  fue  poeta  latino  principal  en  el 
tiempo  del  emperador  Octauiano:  natural  de  Sulmon,  lugar 
de  los  pelignos,  pueblos  de  ytalia  cerca  de  roma;  y  dista  este 
lugar  Sulmon  de  roma  xc.  millas.  Nacio  ouidio  en  el  aiio  que 
Hircio  y  pansa,  consules,  murieron  en  la  guerra  ciuil  entre 
octauiano  y  marco  antonio  cabe  Modona,  cibdad  de  lombardia : 
fue  del  estado  equestre,  que  era  medio  entre  los  Senadores  y 
plebeyos.  Deleytauase  mucho  en  el  estudio  de  la  poesia  a  la 
qual  era  tan  inclinado  de  su  naturaleza,  que  muchas  vezes  las 
clausulas  de  lo  que  escreuia  en  prosa,  sin  mirar  en  ello,  las 
acabaua  en  verso.  Touo  por  amigos  y  contemporaneos  de  los 
poetas  a  Macro,  Propercio,  Tibullo,  Horacio,  Vergilio  y  Gallo. 
Fue  casado  tres  vezes.  Touo  vna  hija  y  ouo  della  nietos,  y 
siendo  ya  de  hedad  de  cinquenta  anos,  fue  desterrado  de  la 
cibdad  de  Roma  para  la  tierra  del  ponto  Euxino,  por  mandado 
del  emperador  Octauiano.  La  causa  por  que  fue  desterrado 
cuentase  de  diuersas  maneras.  Unos  dizen  que  porque  escriuio 
los  libros  de  arte  amandi.  Otros  dizen  que  porque  vio  al  em- 
perador Octauiano  que  se  hazia  adorar  por  el  dios  Phoebo.  Otros 
dizen  que  porque  fue  enamorado  de  su  muger  Liuia  augusta 
emperatrix;  y  otros  dizen  que  por  otras  causas  conformes  a  la 
verdad.  Lo  que  a  mi  me  paresce  entre  tan  diuersas  sentencias 
es,  que  Ouidio  fue  desterrado  por  dos  causas:  la  vna  y  menos 
principal,  porque  escriuio  los  libros  de  arte  amandi,  y  esto  no 
lo  podemos  negar,  como  el  mismo  Ouidio  lo  confirma  en  muchas 
partes  de  sus  obras.  Empero  esta  causa  publicola  el  mismo 
porque  se  encubriesse  la  verdadera,  en  la  qual  se  offendia  la 
magestad  del  emperador  Augusto;  y  esta  fue  que  vio  al  dicho 
emperador  Augusto  tener  que  hazer  con  su  hija  Julia.     E  esto 


264  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

no  fue  por  malicia,  porque  el  lo  procurasse  ver,  sino  violo  por 
inaduertencia  y  no  queriendo.  Loqual  pudo  facilmente  ser,  assi 
porque  el  era  muy  familiar  del  Emperador,  y  a  esta  causa 
conuiene  y  son  muy  Concordes  todas  las  quexas  que  el  deplora 
en  el  libro  de  tristibus  y  de  ponto,  como  aquello  del  tercero  de 
tristibus :  Porque  mis  ojos  no  queriendolo  hazer,  vieron  el  crimen, 
soy  punido,  y  mi  pecado  es  auer  tenido  ojos.  Y  en  el  segundo 
libro  de  la  misma  obra  dize :  Porque  vi  algo,  porque  hize  mis 
ojos  pecar,  porque  sin  quererlo  hazer  conosci  la  culpa.  Que  el 
emperador  Octauiano  cometiesse  incesto  con  su  hija  Julia, 
declaralo  muy  bien  Suetonio  tranquillo,  quando  dize  que  el 
emperador  Cayo  caligula  publicaua  que  su  madre  Agripina  era 
hija  del  emperador  Octauiano,  y  que  la  auia  auido  en  su  hija 
Julia,  con  la  qual  auia  cometido  incesto.  Esto  es  lo  que  a  mi 
me  paresce  mas  conforme  a  la  verdadera  causa  del  destierro  de 
Ouidio;  y  no  lo  affirmo  tanto  que  niegue  poder  ser  otra  la 
verdad,  pero  digo  lo  que  siento.  Fue  desterrado  en  la  cibdad  de 
Tomos,  en  la  qual  murio  el  noueno  ano  de  su  destierro,  y  fue 
sepultado  en  ella  como  dize  Eusebio.  Compuso  muchas  excel- 
lentes  obras  en  verso,  de  las  quales  las  mas  principales  y  las 
que  hay  son  estas :  Las  Epistolas  heroydas ;  Tres  libros  de  Elegias : 
Otros  tres  de  arte  amandi ;  Dos  de  remedio  [de]  amoris ;  Uno 
contra  Ibis;  Quinze  del  Metamorphoseos ;  Doze  de  los  Fastos; 
Cinco  de  tristibus ;  Quatro  de  Ponto ;  Una  epistola  consolatoria  a 
Lima,  muger  del  emperador  Augusto,  sobre  la  muerte  de  su  hijo 
Druso  Germanico.    E  de  la  vida  de  Ouidio  esto  baste. 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Eenascence  in  Spain  265 


IV 

BUSTAMANTE'S  VERSION  OF  THE  TALES  OF 
PYRAMUS  AND  THISBE 

En  las  partes  de  oriente  auia  vn  agraciado  y  muy  gentil 
mancebo  que  llamauan  Piramo,  y  vna  muy  linda  y  bien  dispuesta 
donzella  llamada  Tisbe,  los  quales  eran  tan  estremados  en  gracia 
y  hermosura,  que  en  sus  tiempos  no  se  hallaran  otros  mas  ni  tanto 
como  ellos.  Estos  dos  desde  ninos  se  auian  criado  y  acompaiiado 
siempre  juntos  por  ser  vezinos  y  tener  las  casas  pared  y  medio 
el  vno  del  otro.  Eran  naturales  y  biuian  en  vna  ciudad  que 
dizen  Babilonia  por  la  reyna  Semiramis  de  ladrillos  cercada.  El 
amor  era  muy  grande  entre  entrambos.  Muchas  vezes  se  quisieran 
communicar  y  ver  juntos;  y  assi  lo  hizieran  si  no  por  miedo  de 
sus  padres,  los  quales  al  fin  no  se  lo  pudieron  estoruar;  que 
aunque  no  auia  mensajero  entre  ellos,  vna  pared  estaua  entre 
ambas  las  casas  donde  auia  vn  resquicio  muy  oculto  y  encubierto ; 
y  por  alii  hablanclo  se  communicauan  y  dauan  orden  en  sus 
secretos  amores,  de  manera  que  hombre  nascido  no  se  lo  sentia. 
Por  alii  se  veyan,  por  alii  se  hablauan,  por  alii  se  descubrian  su 
coraeon  el  vno  al  otro,  por  alii  se  desseauan  muchas  vezes  ver 
juntos  abracando  y  besando,  mas  la  pared  se  lo  impedia.  Muchas 
vezes  dezian:  Ay  pared,  di,  cruel,  porque  nos  hazes  tantos  em- 
baracos,  porque  eres  tan  molesta  a  estos  que  tan  sin  comparacion 
se  aman?  y  despues  tornauan  a  dezir:  Por  cierto,  bien  conoscemos 
que  de  mucha  misericordia  vsarias,  si  nos  dexasses  ver  ayuntados, 
o  si,  a  lo  menos,  consintiesses  que  nos  besassemos:  pero  en  fin 
vemos  que  nos  hazes  gran  fauor  quando  nos  dexas  hablar.  Estas 
y  otras  cosas  estauan  alii  diziendo  quando  no  podian  otra  cosa 
hazer  mas  de  hablar;  con  mucha  pena  de  coraeon  y  de  anima, 
no  sin  mucha  necessidad  que  a  ello  los  constriniesse,  se  despedian 
el  vno  del  otro,  llorando  y  besando  la  pared  cada  vno  por  si, 
como   si   fuessen   sin   impedimiento  ninguno  juntos.      Otro   dia, 


266  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

quando  queria  amanescer,  tornauanse  en  aquel  lugar,  y  dezian 
sus  quexas  y  lastimas  el  vno  al  otro,  y  concertauan  entrambos 
que  a  la  hora  que  fuesse  de  noche  y  los  hombres  de  casa  fuessen 
adormidos,  saliessen  ambos  de  sus  casas  y  fuessen  a  gozar  libre- 
mente  de  sus  personas  y  vistas  en  vn  lugar  secreto,  cerca  del 
sepulcro  de  vn  hombre  que  dezian  Nino.  Alii  estaua  vn  crescido 
moral,  y  otros  muchos  arboles  que  echauan  gran  sombra  y  vna 
fuente  cerca  del  moral  muy  agradable  de  ver.  Quando  vuieron 
tiempo  oportuno,  fuese  cada  vno  su  via.  Pues,  venida  la  noche, 
Tisbe,  que  mas  por  ventura  desseaua  poderse  ver  con  Piramo, 
quando  vio  que  dormian  todos,  sale  muy  quecla  de  casa  y  cubre 
su  cabeca  con  vn  manto,  y  va  primero  al  lugar  que  auian  con- 
stituydo  y  puesto  de  yr  entrambos,  y  assentose  cerca  del  moral. 
Y  en  tanto  que  ella  alii  estaua,  esperando  a  su  senor  Piramo, 
vino  alii  vna  leona  que  traya  toda  la  boca  sangrienta  de  vna  vaca 
que  auia  comido,  y  venia  a  beuer  a  aquella  fuente.  Quando 
Tisbe  vio  la  leona  venir,  con  gran  miedo  huyo  y  metiose  en  vna 
cueua :  y  como  ella  huya,  cayose  el  manto  en  el  camino  del  bosque 
por  donde  huya.  Quando  la  leona  vno  su  sed  amatada,  tornauase 
por  el  monte.  y  hallo  el  manto  en  la  senda  junto  al  moral  y 
ensangrantole  toclo  con  la  boca  despedacandole.  Piramo,  que  salio 
mas  tarde  de  su  casa,  quando  vio  con  la  luna  (que  para  su  mal 
muy  clara  hazia)  las  pisadas  de  la  leona  en  el  poluo,  vuo  gran 
miedo,  y  quando  vio  el  manto  mas  adelante  sangriento  y  des- 
pedacado,  dixo  con  vn  grande  y  doloroso  sospiro :  Vna  noche 
matara  ahora  dos  que  tan  intensamente  se  amauan.  Ay  de  mi, 
que  yo  deuia  morir  que  no  aquella  sin  uentura,  puesque  yo  la 
mande  venir  a  aqueste  lugar  tan  espantable  y  medroso.  Gran 
maldad  es  la  que  he  hecho,  que  yo  deuiera  venir  primero  a  esper- 
arla;  y  pues  fue  tan  clescuidado,  para  que  quiero  viuir  ahora? 
Querria  que  quantos  leones  en  aquesta  montana  ay  todos  des- 
pedacassen  este  mi  perezoso  y  floxo  cuerpo,  de  manera  que  no 
pudiesse  quedar  ninguna  memoria.  Ay,  que  no  se  que  hazer 
ni  que  venganza  de  mi  tomar.  0  mi  senora  Tisbe,  adonde  estas, 
dime,  que  sera  ahora  sin  ti  de  tu  desdichado  amante?  Esto  dicho. 
tomo  lueso  el  manto  de  Tisbes,  y  vase  a  la  sombra  del  moral  y 


1913]  Schevill:  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain  267 

comenco  de  llorar  y  a  besar  el  sangriento  y  despedacado  manto. 
Despues  que  ya  estuuo  gran  rato  con  quexas  y  exclamaciones 
affligiendo  su  anima,  y  atormentando  el  cuerpo,  dixo:  Seilora, 
toma  agora  venganca  de  mi.  Esto  dicho,  saco  el  espada  de  la 
vayna,  y  metiosela  por  el  vientre  y  saliole  luego  por  las  espaldas, 
y  cayo  boca  abaxo  en  la  tierra;  y  la  sangre  salia  quando  con  la 
ansia  de  muerte  se  meneaua  bien,  como  el  agua,  quando  quiebra 
el  caiio.  Las  moras  que  eran  blancas,  con  la  abundancia  de  la 
sangre  fueron  tintas,  y  subito  tornadas  coloradas,  y  a  poco  de 
rato  fueron  tornadas  negras.  Tisbe,  que  estaua  escondida,  penso 
que  ya  Piramo  seria  venido  y  salio  de  la  cueua  y  vinole  a  buscar ; 
no  le  hallando,  miro  al  moral  y  vio  le  de  otra  color  que  no  tenia 
de  antes.  En  tanto  que  ella  estaua  en  duda  si  era  aquel  el  moral 
o  no  por  verle  con  otro  diuerso  fruto,  vio  al  cuerpo  donde  estaua 
estremesciendo  en  la  tierra  sangrienta.  Quando  lo  vio,  tirose 
atras  muy  espantada  y  muy  descolorida.  Despues,  mirando 
mejor,  y  conosciendo  que  aquel  era  su  amado  Piramo,  comenco 
con  grandes  y  lastimeras  bozes  a  rasgar  su  delicada  y  muy  her- 
mosa  cara,  y  sin  piedad  ninguna  messar  sus  lindos  cabellos,  y 
con  entranable  amor  abracar  el  cuerpo  muerto  y  llorar  sobre  el 
y  besar  su  cara  muy  amorosamente.  diziendo :  Ay  por  dios, 
Piramo,  dime,  serior  y  verdadero  posseedor  de  mi  coracon,  quien 
en  tan  breue  tiempo  tal  te  a  puesto?  Hablame  ya,  Seilor  mio, 
Piramo,  y  respondeme ;  mira  que  la  tu  muy  amada  Tisbe  te  llama. 
Seilor,  alga  ya  la  cara  y  mirame :  cata  que  yo  soy  la  tu  muy  amada 
Tisbe.  Quando  el  oyo  el  nombre  de  Tisbe,  abrio  los  ojos  vn 
poco,  y  quando  la  vio,  hizo  semblante  de  auerse  holgado,  y  de 
querer  hablar,  mas  no  pudo,  porque  en  lugar  de  la  palabra,  se 
le  salio  luego  el  alma  del  cuerpo.  A  la  ora  que  ella  conoscio  el 
manto,  alcando  los  ojos  al  cielo,  hincho  los  ayres  de  quexas,  y 
viendo  la  espada  que  por  las  espaldas  le  salia,  dixo :  0  sin  Ven- 
tura, malhayan  los  dioses  o  quien  de  tanto  mal  fue  causa;  y 
puesque  tu  muerto  eres,  yo  me  matare  con  mis  propias  manos, 
que  no  me  plaze  mas  biuir,  y  ruego  a  mis  parientes  y  a  los  tuyos, 
pues  no  nos  dexaron  ayuntar  en  la  vida,  que  nos  ayunten  en  la 
muerte,  y  nos  entierren  juntos.     Y  ruego  a  los  dioses  que  aquel 


268  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology        [Vol.  4 

arbol,  que  tanto  mal  encubrio,  por  memoria  de  aqui  adelante  sea 
el  f  ruto  que  el  hiziere  negro,  porque  tanto  mal  sea  notorio.  Esto 
dicho,  echandose  sobre  aquella  misma  espada,  metiosela  por  los 
pechos  y  cayo  muerta  a  par  de  Piramo.  Los  parientes  de  entram- 
bos  tomaron  los  euerpos  y  enterraronlos  en  vn  sepulcro,  y  las 
moras  fueron  de  aquel  dia  adelante  negras,  por  el  ruego  que  ella 
hizo  a  los  dioses,  las  quales  antes  solian  ser  blancas.    (f.  54  ff.) 

Although  this  romance  lent  itself  very  well  to  travesty,  it 
nevertheless  has  all  the  features  of  the  serious  sentimental  fiction 
of  the  Renascence.  Cf.  also  Foulche-Delbosc's  reprint:  Tragedia 
de  Mirrha,  compuesta  por  el  Bachiller  Villalon,  (Medina  del 
Campo,  1536),  Revue  Hispanique,  vol.  19,  p.  159. 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  PUBLICATIONS— (Continued) 

Vol.  2.  1.  Some  Textual  Criticisms  on  the  Eighth  Book  of  the  De  Vita  Caesarum 
of  Suetonius,  by  William  Hardy  Alexander.  Pp.  1-33.  November, 
1908    SO 

2.  Cicero's  Knowledge  of  Lucretius's  Poem,  by  William  A.  Merrill.    Pp. 

35-42.     September,  1909  10 

3.  The  Conspiracy  at  Rome  in  66-65  B.  C,  by  H.  C.  Nutting.     January, 

1910    10 

4.  On  the  Contracted  Genitive  in  I  in  Latin,  by  William  A.  Merrill.    Pp. 

57-79.     February,  1910  „ 25 

5.  Epaphos  and  the  Egyptian  Apis,  by  Ivan  M.  Linforth.     Pp.  81-92. 

August,   1910  _ _ 10 

6.  Studies  in  the  Text  of  Lucretius,  by  William  A.  Merrill.    Pp.  93-149. 

June,   1911 50 

7.  The  Separation  of  the  Attributive  Adjective  from  its  Substantive  in 

Plautus,  by  Winthrop  L.  Keep.    Pp.  151-164.    June,  1911 15 

8.  The    'Oapior-n-'s     of  Theocritus,   by   Edward   B.   Clapp.     Pp.   165-171. 

October,   1911   „ 15 

9.  Notes  on  the  Text  of  the  Corpus  Tibullianum,  by  Monroe  E.  Deutsch. 

Pp.  173-226.  June,  1912  50 


UNIVERSITY    OF    CALIFORNIA    PUBLICATIONS 

IN 

MODERN    PHILOLOGY 

Vol.  4,  No.  2,  pp.  269-349  November  10,  1915 


NOTES 

SUR  LE  VOYAGE   DE   CHATEAUBRIAND 

EN  AMERIQUE 


(JUILLET-DECEMBRE,  1791) 


PAR 

GILBERT   CHINARD 


fcv 


\  V-KA  V  T^V 


UNI  Vti  «<?.  1  T  V 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  PRESS 
BERKELEY 


: 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  PUBLICATIONS. 

Note.— The  University  of  California  Publications  are  offered  in  exchange  for  the  publi- 
cations of  learned  societies  and  institutions,  universities,  and  libraries.  Complete  lists  of 
all  the  publications  of  the  University  will  be  sent  upon  request.  For  sample  copies,  lists 
of  publications  or  other  information,  address  the  MANAGER  OF  THE  UNIVERSITY 
PRESS,  BERKELEY,  CALIFORNIA,  U.  S.  A.  All  matter  sent  in  exchange  should  be 
addressed  to  THE  EXCHANGE  DEPARTMENT,  UNIVERSITY  LIBRARY,  BERKELEY, 
CALIFORNIA,  U.  S.  A. 

Cited  as  Univ.  Calif.  Publ.  Mod.  Philol. 

MODERN  PHILOLOGY.— Charles  M.  Gayley,  Hugo  K.  Schilling  and  Rudolph  Schevill, 
Editors.    Price  per  volume,  $3.50. 

,  .Vol.  1.    1.  Der  Junge  Goethe  und  das  Publikum,  von  W.  R.  R.  Pinger.    Pp.  1-67. 

May,   1909   „. ™  $0.50 

2.  Studies  in  the  Marvellous,  by  Benjamin  P.  Kurtz.    Pp.  69-244.    March, 

8.  Introduction  to  the  Philosophy  of  Art,  by  Arthur  Weiss.  Pp.  245-302. 

January,  1910  „ _ „„ 50 

4.  The  Old  English  Christian  Epic:  a  Study  in  the  Plot-technique  of  the 
Juliana,  the  Elene,  the  Andreas,  and  the  Christ,  in  Comparison  with 
the  Beowulf  and  with  the  Latin  Literature  of  the  Middle  Ages,  by 
George  Arnold  Smithson.    Pp.  303-400.    September,  1910 1.00 

Vol.  2.    1.  Wilhelm  Busch  als  Dichter,  Kunstler,  Psychologe,  und  Philosoph,  von 

Fritz  Winther.    Pp.  1-79.    September,  1910  „. 75 

2.  The  Critics  of  Edmund  Spenser,  by  Herbert  E.  Cory.     Pp.   81-182. 

June,   1911  „.„ „ 1.00 

8.  Some  Forms  of  the  Riddle  Question  and  the  Exercise  of  the  Wits  in 
Popular  Fiction  and  Formal  Literature,  by  Rudolph  Schevill.  Pp. 
183-237.     November,   1911  „ .„ 50 

4.  Histrionics  in  the  Dramas  of  Franz  Grillparzer,  by  Elizabeth  A.  Herr- 

mann.    Pp.  239-309.     June,  1912  „       .75 

5.  Spenser,  the  School  of  the  Fletchers,  and  Milton,  by  Herbert  E.  Cory. 

Pp.  311-373.     June,   1912  „ „.      .75 

Vol.  3.     1.  Rousseaus  Einfluss  auf  Klinger,  von  Fredrich  A.  Wyneken.    Pp.  1-85. 

September,  1912  1.00 

2.  Das  Gerettete  Venedig,  Eine  vergleichende  Studie,  von  Fritz  Winther. 

Pp.  87-246.    February,  1914  „ 1.50 

3.  A  Neglected  Aspect  of  the  English  Romantic  Revolt,  by  G.  F.  Richard- 

son.   Pp.  247-360.    May,  1915  1.00 

Vol.  4.    1.  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain,  by  Rudolph  Schevill.    Pp.  1-268. 

November,  1913  - -    2.50 

2.  Notes  sur  le  Voyage  de  Chateaubriand  en  Amerigue  (Juillet-Decembre, 

1791),  par  Gilbert  Chinard.    Pp.  269-349.    November,  1915  80 

CLASSICAL  PHILOLOGY.— Edward  B.  Clapp,  William  A.  Merrill,  Herbert  C.  Nutting, 
Editors.    Price  per  volume  $2.50. 

Vol.  1.    1.  Hiatus  in  Greek  Melic  Poetry,  by  Edward  Bull  Clapp.    Pp.  1-34.    June, 

1904    „ -  $0.50 

2.  Studies  in  the  Si-Clause.  I.  Concessive  Si-Clauses  in  Plautus.  II.  Sub- 
junctive Protasis  and  Indicative  Apodosis  in  Plautus.  By  Herbert  O. 
Nutting.    Pp.  35-94.     January,  1905 „ _ 60 

8.  The  Whence  and  Whither  of  the  Modern  Science  of  Language,  by  Benj. 

Ide  Wheeler.    Pp.  95-109.    May,  1905 „ _ 25 

4.  On  the  Relation  of  Horace  to  Lucretius,  by  William  A.  Merrill.    Pp. 

111-129.    October,  1905 „ 25 


UNIVERSITY    OF    CALIFORNIA    PUBLICATIONS 

IN 

MODERN    PHILOLOGY 

Vol.  4,  No.  2,  pp.  269-349  November  10,  1915 


NOTES 

SUR  LE   VOYAGE   DE   CHATEAUBRIAND 

EN   AMfiRIQUE 

(JUILLET-DECEMBRE,  1791) 

PAR 

GILBEET  CHINARD 


AVERTISSEMENT 
Dans  line  serie  d 'articles  parus  dans  la  Revue  d'histoire 
litteraire  de  la  France  et  ensuite  reunis  en  volume.  M.  Bedier, 
reprenant  des  critiques  eparses  fornmlees  du  vivant  meme  de 
Chateaubriand,  a  soumis  a  une  analyse  severe  l'itineraire  que 
l'auteur  d'Atala  pretend  avoir  suivi  pendant  son  voyage  en 
Amerique.1  Ayant  pu  determiner  avec  precision  la  date  a 
laquelle  Chateaubriand  est  arrive  a  Baltimore,  et  la  date  a 
laquelle  il  s'est  embarque  pour  la  France,  M.  Bedier  a  demontre 
qu'entre  le  10  juillet  1791  et  le  10  decembre  de  la  meme  annee, 
le  jeune  voyageur  n'avait  pu  a  la  fois  voir  Washington,  aller  a 
New  York  puis  a  Boston,  retourner  a  New  York,  remonter  1 'Hud- 
son jusqu'a  Albany,  se  diriger  de  la  vers  le  Niagara,  descend  re 
l'Ohio  puis  le  Mississipi  jusqu'aux  Natchez,  gagner  la  Floride, 


1  J.  Bedier,  "Chateaubriand  en  Amerique:  Verite  et  Fiction,"  Revue 
d'histoire  Litteraire  de  la  France,  VI  (1899),  p.  502;  VII  (1900),  p.  59; 
et  Etudes  critiques,  Paris,  1903,  p.  127  et  suiv.;  c  'est  a  ce  dernier  ouvrage 
que  je  renverrai. 


270  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.4 

revenir  vers  les  Natchez,  et  en  tin  retonrner  a  Baltimore  par  le 
desert.  M.  Bedier  a  de  phis  demontre  qu'un  certain  nombre  de 
passages  du  Voyage  en  Amerique,  jusqu'a  ltd  criLs  originaux. 
ont  ete  enipruntes  a  Bartram.  II  n'a  pu  cependant  retrouver  les 
"sources"  de  la  partie  qui  traite  des  Grands  Lacs,  de  I 'Ohio  et 
du  Mississipi. 

Les  defenseurs  de  Chateaubriand  et  en  particulier  M.  Bertrin 
et  M.  Stathers  se  sont  cru  en  droit  de  pretendre  que.  au  moins 
pour  cette  partie  du  Voyage.  Chateaubriand  etait  original  et  qu'il 
avait  simplement  deerit  ee  qu'il  avait  vu.2  lis  se  sont  done 
ingenie  a  reconstituer  l'itineraire  probable  de  notre  voyageur. 
L'abbe  Bertrin  a  propose  tui  itineraire  et  meme  deux  ;  M.  Stathers 
en  a  propose  un  nouveau.  Rien  n'empechait  d'autres  critiques 
de  donner  a  leur  tour  des  solutions  plus  ou  moins  ingeuieuses  de 
ce  probleme  geographique  et  de  faire  voyager  a  leur  gre  Chateau- 
briand a  travers  le  continent  americain. 

L'entreprise  etait  d'autant  plus  tentante  que  Miss  E.  Kate 
Armstrong  avait  retrouve  dans  les  archives  du  Congres  line  lettre 
du  marquis  de  la  Rouerie  presentant  Chateaubriand  au  Presi- 
dent des  Etats-Unis.  alors  que  M.  Bedier  avait  nie  la  realite  d'une 
entrevue  entre  le  '"chevalier  de  Combourg"  et  George  Wash- 
ington.3 

De  son  cote.  M.  Dick  avait  cru  retrouver  la  source  des  chapi- 
tres  concernant  les  Grands  Lacs.  LOhio  et  le  Mississipi  chez  le 
voyageur  italien  Beltrami  dont  la  relation  avait  paru  en  1S24.4 
Non  seulement  Chateaubriand  n'aurait  pas  descendu  l'Ohio  et 
le  Mississipi.  mais  encore  il  aurait  compose  apres  lecture  de  cet 
ouvrage  le  chapitre  des  Memoir es  d'Outre-Tombe  qui  contient  la 
relation  de  son  voyage  et  qu'il  date  cependant  de  Londres  1822. 


-  Gr.  Bertrin,  Sainte-Beuve  et  Chateaubriand.  Paris.  1906,  p.  63  et  suiv. 
Les  articles  recueillis  dans  ce  volume  avaient  d'abord  paru  dans  le  Cor- 
respondant,  10  juillet  1900,  et  dans  I'Enseignement  Chretien,  ler  juin  1901. 
M.  Stathers.  Chateaubriand  et  V Amerique  (Grenoble.  19   "   . 

s  Emma  Kate  Armstrong,  "Chateaubriand's  America."  Publ.  of  the 
Modern  Language  Association  of  America.  XXII  (1907),  p.  3-15. 

4  E.  Dick  "Quelques  sources  ignorees  .  .  ."  Revue  d'histoire  litteraire 
de  la  France.  XIII  (1906),  p.  22S.  E.  Dick,  Plagiats  de  Chateaubriand 
(Berne,  1907). 


1915]  Chiitanl:    Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  271 

Non  settlement  Chateaubriand  serait  un  faussaire  mais  encore 
il  aurait  deliberement  et  dans  un  but  machiavelique  falsifie  des 
dates! 

M.  Martino  dans  un  article  d'une  justesse  remarquable  a 
montre  eombien  etait  faible  la  demonstration  de  M.  Dick,  sans 
parvenir  cependant  a  detruire  entierement  les  erreurs  avancees 
par  l'auteur  des  Plagiats  de  Chateaubriand.5 

C'est  ainsi  que  tout  recemment  M.  Andre  Beaunier  a  repris  a 
son  compte  les  accusations  de  M.  Dick.  M.  V.  Giraud  attend  des 
decouvertes  nouvelles  pour  se  prononcer.  mais  renvoie  cependant 
au  meme  ouvrage.  M.  Souriau  evite  de  se  prononcer,  mais 
aimerait  a  croire  que  Chateaubriand  est  alle  plus  loin  que  le 
Niagara.'''  La  question  n'est  done  pas  resolue,  puisque  malgre 
la  demonstration  de  M.  Bedier.  il  y  a  encore  des  incredules.  En 
elle-meme  je  ne  sais  si  elle  a  autant  d 'importance  qu'on  a  bien 
voulu  lui  en  attribuer.  il  n'est  cependant  pas  inutile  d'y  revenir 
et  de  eonsiderer  a  nouveau  les  faits,  ne  serait-ce  que  pour  montrer 
la  chancelante  faiblesse  de  certaines  allegations.  J'avoue  avoir 
entrepris  cette  enquete.  il  y  a  deja  longtemps,  sinon  avec  l'espoir 
de  prouver  que  M.  Bedier  s 'etait  trompe,  au  moins  avec  le  desir 
de  le  prendre  en  faute  et  de  justifier  Chateaubriand  autant  qu'il 
me  serait  possible.  Reprenant  en  detail  les  etapes  de  Chateau- 
briand j  'ai  tantot  adopte  la  solution  de  M.  Bertrin  et  tantot  celle 
de  M.  Stathers.  sans  pouvoir  arriver  a  ime  certitude  absolue.  II 
faut  avoir  veeu  dans  le  commerce  des  vieux  voyageurs  en 
Amerique  pour  savoir  eombien  peu  de  eonfiance  on  pent  leur 
accorder  pour  les  questions  de  distances  et  de  temps.  De  plus 
Chateaubriand  lui-meme  est  bien  incomplet  et  bien  peu  clair. 
Faut-il  croire  qu'il  a  parcouru  les  regions  qu'il  decrit,  on  devons- 
nous  au  contraire  ne  tenir  compte  que  des  endroits  qu'il  affirme 
formellement  avoir  visites?  Supprimez  quelques  pointes  et 
quelques  crochets  et  tout  devient  plausible,  facile  meme.  Tenez- 


■5  P.  Martino,  "A  propos  du  Voyage  en  Amerique  de  Chateaubriand," 
Beruf  d'histoire  litteraire  de  la  France,  XVI  (1909),  p.  429. 

e  A.  Beaunier,  Chateaubriand  (2  vols.,  Paris,  1912),  I,  p.  38  et  suiv;  V. 
Giraud,  XouveUes  etudes  sur  Chateaubriand  (Paris,  1912),  p.  60;  M. 
Souriau,  Les  idees  morales  de  Chateaubriand  (Paris,  1909). 


272  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.4 

vous  en  a  la  lettre  et  vous  arriverez  meme  a  douter  de  son  voyage 
an  Niagara.7 

On  pent  cependant  esperer  decouvrir  une  solution  satisfai- 
sante,  non  plus  seulement  en  evaluant  le  temps  qu'il  fallait  alors 
pour  parcourir  une  distance  donnee,  mais  en  comparant  le  recit 
de  Chateaubriand  aux  recits  de  voyageurs  ayant  parcouru  les 
memes  regions  a  la  meme  date  que  lui,  en  examinant  quels 
etaient  alors  les  moyens  de  transport,  en  recherchant  enfin  quel 
etait  dans  l'automne  de  1791  l'etat  du  pays  que  Chateaubriand 
pretend  avoir  traverse.  Si  nous  arrivons  a  montrer  que  Chateau- 
briand n'a  pas  mentionne  dans  son  voyage  des  choses  qu'il  ne 
pouvait  pas  oublier  s  'il  les  avait  une  f ois  vues ;  si  nous  retrouvons 
la  "source"  de  la  description  de  l'Ohio  et  du  Mississipi;  si  nous 
prouvons  qu'il  etait  impossible  de  descendre  ces  fleuves  et  de 
s'aventurer  dans  cette  region  en  septembre  et  en  octobre  1791, 
l'hypothese  meme  que  Chateaubriand  a  pu  accomplir  cette  partie 
de  son  itineraire  deviendra  fort  improbable,  et  nous  serons  bien 
forces  d'admettre  que  ni  l'itineraire  propose  par  M.  Stathers, 
ni  celui  propose  par  l'abbe  Bertrin,  ni  tout  autre  du  meme  genre 
ne  peuvent  se  defendre. 

On  sait  que  Chateaubriand  quitta  la  France  avec  le  projet 
tres  ambitieux  mais  assez  vague  de  traverser  tout  le  continent 
americain  de  Test  a  l'ouest,  et  de  remonter  ensuite  au  nord,  dans 
l'espoir  de  trouver  le  fameux  passage  du  nord-ouest,  dont  la 
recherche  avait  occupe  tant  d'esprits  depuis  la  decouverte  de 
l'Amerique.  Nous  n'avons  pas  a  nous  occuper  ici  de  ce  qu'il 
voulait  faire;  voyons  ce  qu'il  a  fait.8 

7  J'ai  cm  inutile  de  dormer  ici  une  bibliographie  complete  de  la  ques- 
tion et  d'enumerer  tous  les  ouvrages  publies  depuis  1899  et  ou  le  Voyage 
est  discute;  on  en  trouvera  la  liste  dans  1 'article  de  M.  Martino. 

s  Toutes  les  citations  des  Memoires  d'Outre-Tombe  renvoient  a  1 'edition 
Bire.  Pour  le  Voyage  je  me  suis  servi  de  1 'edition  des  ceuvres  completes 
(Paris,  Ladvocat,  1827). 


1915]  Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  273 


II 
DE  BALTIMORE  AU  NIAGARA 

Parti  de  Saint  Malo,  sur  le  brick  le  " Saint-Pierre,"  le  8 
avril  1791,  Chateaubriand  debarqua  a  Baltimore  le  10  juillet  de 
la  merae  annee,  en  raeme  temps  qu'une  petite  colonie  de  Sul- 
piciens  destines  an  seminaire  Sainte  Marie.1  Des  ce  moment 
nous  n'avons  plus  pour  nous  guider  que  les  indications  donnees 
par  Chateaubriand  lui-meme,  indications  bien  incompletes  et 
souvent  contradictoires,  comme  nous  aurons  l'occasion  de  le  con- 
stater.  Fort  nombreux  sont  les  Europeans  qui  ont  visite  les 
Etats-Unis  dans  les  dernieres  annees  du  XVIIIe  siecle,  et  tous 
ont  consigne  par  le  menu  leurs  experiences  les  plus  triviales : 
aventures  dans  une  auberge  isolee,  distances  entre  deux  villes 
ou  deux  relais,  bonne  on  mauvaise  chere  et  lits  de  hasard. 
Chateaubriand,  an  contraire,  a  vu  les  Etats-Unis  de  loin  et  de 
tres  haut.  II  semble  qu'il  ait  parcouru  le  pays  sans  prendre  le 
temps  de  rien  observer,  certainement  sans  rien  observer  a  fond, 
sans  meme  etudier  de  pres  ceux  que  Ton  appelait  encore  quelque- 
fois  les  Anglo- Americains  et  qui  excitaient  tant  d 'admiration  en 
France  dans  le  camp  des  philosophes.  Des  volumes  ont  pu  etre 
ecrits  sur  l'Amerique  de  Chateaubriand;  il  faudrait  toute  une 
bibliotheque  pour  decrire  l'Amerique  qu'il  n'a  pas  voulu  ou  n'a 
pas  su  decrire. 

Le  soir  meme  de  son  arrivee  le  jeune  homme  dine  en  quelque 
taverne  en  compagnie  du  capitaine  Dujardin,  et  des  le  lende- 
main,  prend  le  stage-coach  pour  Philadelphia  A  quatre  heures 
du  matin,  le  voila  roulant  sur  les  chemins  du  Nouveau  Monde.2 


i  Mme.  de  Barbery,  Elisabeth  Seton  et  les  commencements  de  I'Eglise 
catholique  aux  Etats-Unis  (4me  edition),  II,  p.  482.  Cite  par  Eire, 
Memoires  d'Outre-Tombe,  I,  p.  310,  n.  Une  lettre  de  l'eveque  Caroll  au 
P.  Gibault,  datee  du  22  Janvier  1792,  indique  que  les  Sulpiciens  sont  ar- 
rives "au  mois  de  juin  passe"  (Illinois  Historical  Collections,  V,  p.  597. 
Les  P.  P.  Boyer  et  Baisnes  de  St.  Mary  ont  bien  voulu  verifier  cette  date 
pour  moi,  et  je  tiens  a,  les  en  remercier  ici.  II  resulte  de  leurs  recherches 
que  les  Sulpiciens  en  compagnie  de  qui  Chateaubriand  est  arrive,  ont 
bien  debarqne  a  Baltimore  a  date  indiquee  par  Mme.  de  Barbery. 

2M.  d'O-T.,  I,  p.  354. 


274  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol. -4 

L  'impression  premiere  n  'eut  rien  de  tres  agreable :  le  pays 
etait  nu  et  assez  plat,  pen  de  maisons.  pen  d'arbres.  pen  d'oiseaux, 
point  de  villages,  quelque  animation  seulement  en  approehant  de 
Philadelphie.  C 'etait  au  matin,  les  fermiers  se  rendaient  an 
marehe.  des  equipages  eirculaient  sur  les  routes.  Ces  premieres 
notations  ne  different  guere  de  celles  que  nous  trouvons  ehez  tons 
les  voyageurs.  non  plus  que  la  description  tres  sommaire  de  Phila- 
delphie.3 L 'aspect  de  la  ville  est  froid  et  monotone,  point  de 
monuments,  et  surtout  point  de  vieux  monuments.  Au  lieu  des 
vertueux  Quakers  de  Penn.  des  habitants  elegants,  dissipes  meme, 
des  maisons  de  banque  et  de  jeu. 

Chateaubriand  venu  a  Philadelphie  pour  solliciter  une  audi- 
ence de  Washington,  ne  l'y  trouva  pas  et  dut  l'y  attendre  une 
quinzaine  de  jours,  suivant  le  Toy  age,  une  huitaine  de  jours. 
suivant  les  Me  moires.*  Que  Chateaubriand  ait  vu  ou  non  le 
President  des  Etats-Unis,  il  semble  indeniable  qu'il  a  sejourne 
a  Philadelphie  plus  longtemps  que  dans  toute  autre  ville  ameri- 
caine.5  Comment  y  passa-t-il  son  temps,  c'est  ce  qu'il  n'est  pas 
inutile  de  rechereher. 

Descendu  d'abord  a  1 'auberge,  je  pris  ensuite  un  appartement  dans 
une  pension  oil  logeaient  des  colons  de  Saint  Domingue,  et  des  Francois 
emigres  avec  d  'autres  idees  que  les  miennes.  Une  terre  de  liberte 
offrait  un  asile  a  eeux  qui  fuyaient  la  liberte:  rien  ne  prouve  mieux  le 
haut  prix  des  institutions  genereuses  que  cet  exil  volontaire  des  partisans 
du  pouvoir  absolu  dans  une  pure  democratie.6 

Cet  exode  des  colons  des  Antilles  vers  l'Amerique  est  chose  trop 
connue  pour  que  nous  y  revenions ;  il  avait  commence  des  1789 
et  se  continua  pendant  toute  la  Revolution.7  Quant  aux  Francais 
emigres,  nous  aimerions  fort  savoir  leurs  noms,  ou  du  moins  le 
nom  de  quelques-uns.  II  est  evident  que  Chateaubriand  ren- 
contra  la  un  certain  nombre  des  victimes  de  l'affaire  de  la  colonie 


3  Voir  en  partieulier  Isaac  Weld,  Travels  through  the  States  of  America 
(3me  edition;  2  vols.,  London,  1800). 
*  Voyage,  p.  24;  H.  cl'O-T.,  I,  p.  356. 

5  Voir  avertissement,  note  3. 

6  If.  d'O-T.,  I,  p.  355. 

"  G.    Chinard,   "Un   Bordelais    dans   la    Xouvelle   Angleterre. "    Revue 
philomathiejue  de  Bordeaux,  XII  (juillet,  1910). 


1915]  Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  275 

du  Scioto,  et  peut-etre  quelque  jour  trouvera-t-on  dans  leurs 
papiers  une  mention  du  jeune  et  ambitieux  voyageur.8  A  moins 
de  supposer  que  Chateaubriand  resta  confine  dans  une  de  ces 
maisons  de  jeu  qui  choquaient  tellement  sa  conception  de  la 
vertu  americaine,  il  faut  bien  admettre  qu'il  visita  quelques-unes 
des  institutions  de  la  ville  et  en  particulier  ces  etablissements  qui 
attiraient  alors  la  curiosite  des  etrangers. 

II  y  avait  alors  a  Philadelphie  des  choses  qui  meritaient  d'etre 
vues  et  qu'un  jeune  homme  epris  de  sciences  naturelles  n 'avait 
pas  le  droit  de  negliger. 

C'etait,  tout  d'abord,  le  musee  de  Charles  Wilson  Peale,  qui 
contenait  non  seulement  des  figures  de  cire,  admirables  de  verite, 
mais  aussi  une  collection  de  "tons  les  oiseaux  et  de  tons  les 
animaux  de  l'Amerique."0 

Dans  les  collections  d'histoire  naturelle  formees  par  Franklin, 
on  pouvait  conterapler  une  merveille,  un  serpent  a  deux  tetes 
auquel  le  vieux  Benjamin  attachait  un  tel  prix,  et  dont  on  ne 
connaissait  qu'un  autre  specimen  trouve  quelques  annees  aupara- 
vant  pres  du  Lac  Champlain.10 

Mais  rien  ne  surpassait  la  Gray's  Tavern,  sur  la  rive  droite 
du  Schuylkill,  au  pied  du  pont  flottant.  C  'etait  une  de  ces  choses 
que  Ton  ne  peut  oublier.  Pendant  de  longues  annees  la  taverne 
n 'avait  heberge  que  des  bateliers  et  des  voyageurs  de  passage, 
quand    un    jour,    un    "ambitious    young    fellow,"    M.    Samuel 


s  Sur  cette  entreprise  qui  avait  excite  uu  interet  considerable  en 
France,  voir  surtout  H.  Carre,  "Les  emigres  Francais  en  Amerique: 
1789-1793,"  Revue  de  Paris,  15  mai,  1898,  p.  311.  II  s'agissait  d'une 
entreprise  de  colonisation  dans  la  region  de  l'Ohio,  et  en  particulier  a 
rembouchure  du  Scioto.  Des  cette  date  un  groupe  de  colons  etaient  deja 
etablis  sur  les  terrains  qui  leur  avaient  ete  concedes  et  d 'autres  at- 
tendaient  a  Philadelphie  un  moment  favorable  pour  aller  les  rejoindre. 
Nous  reviendrons  plus  loin  sur  cette  entreprise  et  sur  les  etablissements 
franqais  de  l'Ohio. 

a  Life,  Journals  and  Correspondence  of  Rev.  Manasseh  Cutler  (2  vols., 
Cincinnati,  1888),  I,  p.  263.  Le  Eev.  Cutler  a  ecrit  sa  description  de 
Philadelphie  apres  un  voyage  fait  en  1787. 

io  Chateaubriand  a  parle  dans  son  Voyage,  p.  139,  de  cet  animal  "peu 
commun."  M.  Bedier,  p.  226,  a  cru  trouver  la  source  ce  passage  dans 
le  naturaliste  Bonnet;  mais  outre  que  Chateaubriand  avait  pu  voir  ce 
lusus  naturae  a  Philadelphie,  le  voyageur  Carver  en  avait  deja  donne  la 
description  (J.  Carver,  Voyage  dans  les  parties  interieures  de  l'Amerique 
Septentrionale,  trad,  franchise,  'Paris,  1784,  p.  375). 


276  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 

Vaughan  aine,  arrivant  d ' Angleterre  et  desirant  faire  une  for- 
tune honnete  et  rapide,  avait  transforme  la  vieille  auberge,  et 
en  avait  fait  "une  merveille  digne  d'etre  comparee  aux  jardins 
suspendus. "" 

Au  sommet  de  la  falaise,  il  avait  installe  une  enorme  serre 
sur  laquelle  ouvrait  une  longue  galerie  ou  se  trouvaient  les 
chambres  des  hotes.  Orangers  et  citronniers,  en  fleur  et  couverts 
de  fruits,  palmiers  et  ananas,  lianes  monstrueuses  des  tropiques. 
amenees  a  grands  frais  des  Antilles  et  de  la  Flo-ride,  y  poussaient 
dans  le  desordre  et  la  luxuriance  de  la  foret  vierge.  Un  sentier 
traversant  un  bois  epais  conduisait  a  une  sorte  d 'hermitage 
' '  d  'aspect  antique,  mais  pourvu  d  'une  salle  de  bains, "  et  a  travers 
les  arbres,  a  demi-caches  par  le  feuillage,  on  pouvait  apercevoir 
trois  ponts  ou  arches  de  style  chinois  et  tres  eleves ;  a  chaque 
tournant  du  sentier,  des  grottes  offraient  un  refuge  aux  amants 
de  la  solitude,  a  qui  parvenait  affaibli  par  la  distance  le  bruit  de 
la  plus  belle  cascade  d'Amerique  tombant  a  pic  dans  le  Schuyl- 
kill par  une  chute  de  soixante  quinze  pieds.  Le  tout  etait  rempli 
de  pistes  a  peine  tracees,  d 'arbres  geants;  tous  les  fruits,  tous 
les  arbrisseaux  croissaient  sur  les  pentes  de  la  colline.  C 'etait  le 
desert  et  la  foret  vierge,  a  deux  milles  de  Philadelphie. 

Serait-il  possible  que  ce  fut  la  un  des  plus  beaux  decors 
d'Atala!  Serait-ce  a  la  Gray's  Tavern  que  Chateaubriand  aurait 
vu  la  grotte  du  Pere  Aubry ;  la  fille  de  Lopez  aurait-elle  ete 
ensevelie,  sous  une  de  ces  arches  de  style  chinois,  au  fond  d'un 
ravin  pen  naturel;  se  pourrait-il  que  Chateaubriand  ait  surpris 
dans  cette  solitude  habilement  amenagee  "ce  grand  secret  de 
melancolie  que  la  lune  aime  a  raconter  aux  vieux  chenes  et  aux 
rivages  antiques  des  mers"?  Est-ce  la  que  l'auteur  d'Atala 
aurait  entendu  les  roucoulements  de  la  colombe  de  Virginie,  "la 
chute  d'un  torrent  dans  les  montagnes,  les  tintements  de  la 
cloche  qui  appelait  les  voyageurs"?  Une  telle  supposition  est 
fort  irreverencieuse,  elle  n'est  cependant  pas  tout  a  fait  im- 
probable, quand  on  se  souvient  quel  pouvoir  grossissant  a  1  'imag- 


ii  Manasseh   Cutler,   I,   pp.    274-279.      La    description   qui   suit    est   la 
traduction  abregee,  mais  presque  litterale  du  texte  anglais. 


1915]  Chinard:    Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  277 

ination  du  poete,  et  quand  on  se  rappelle  que  Longfellow,  pour 
ne  citer  que  cet  exemple.  s'inspira  d'un  vulgaire  panorama  en 
toile  peinte  pour  composer  ses  descriptions  d'Evangeline. 

A  defaut  de  la  Gray's  Tavern,  nne  visite  aux  jardins  du 
natnraliste  Bartram,  qui  vivait  sur  l'antre  rive  du  Schuylkill. 
a,  peine  a  deux  milles  du  bac.  aurait  pu  fournir  nne  couleur  locale 
riche,  et  variee  a  souhait.  a  un  amateur  d'exotisme.  Bartram, 
qui  etait  Quaker,  accueillait  ses  visiteurs  par  le  thee  egalitaire 
des  "Amis."  Quelquefois,  on  le  trouvait,  de  bon  matin,  sans 
souliers  ni  bas,  en  petite  veste.  en  train  de  becher  son  jardin. 
Pele-mele,  nous  dit  Cutler,  sans  suivre  aucune  classification 
botanique,  sans  meme  se  preoccuper  de  disposer  ses  plantations 
en  vue  d'un  effet  decoratif,  il  avait  entasse  la  arbres,  buissons. 
lianes,  et  ronces,  rapportes  de  Floride  tant  par  son  pere  que  par 
lui-meme.  Dans  une  sorte  de  petit  lac,  il  cultivait  les  plantes 
aquatiques,  surtout  celles  du  sud;  an  centre  du  jardin,  il  montrait 
avee  orgueil  un  pa  pair  tree  on  custard-apple  tree;  il  etait  bien 
petit  a  vrai  dire,  et  ne  portait  que  des  fruits  minuscules ;  mais  la 
encore,  avec  quelque  imagination,  on  pouvait  se  croire  transporte 
sous  les  Tropiques :  le  papayer  de  Bartram  vaut  le  baobab  de 
Tartarin.12 

Rien  ne  prouve  la  visite  a  Bartram,  non  plus  qu'nn  sejour  a 
la  Gray's  Tavern,  ou  une  visite  an  cabinet  d'histoire  naturelle 
de  l'Universite  de  Pennsylvanie,  ou  l'on  pouvait  voir  les  fameux 
ossements  gigantesques  decouverts  sur  les  rives  de  l'Ohio,  et 
surtout  des  planches  gravees  et  coloriees  representant  tons  les 
animaux  et  toutes  les  plantes  du  Nouveau  Monde.13  Pour  arriver 
a  une  certitude  sur  ce  point  il  faudrait  qu'il  existat  un  "livre 
des  voyageurs"  et  qu'il  eut  ete  conserve;  contentons-nous  de 
signaler  ces  "sources  visuelles"  possibles  a  cote  de  tant  de 
"sources  livresques"  certaines  qui  ont  ete  retrouvees. 


wManasseh  Cutler,  I,  p.  273.  II  y  a  aussi  un  papayer  dans  Chateau- 
briand; mais  il  Fa  transporte  sur  les  rives  de  l'Ohio:  "Derriere  ee 
premier  plan  s'elevait  le  plus  eharmant  des  arbres,  le  papayer,  qu'on 
eut  pris  pour  un  style  d 'argent  cisele,  surmonte  par  une  urne  coriu- 
thienne"  (Memoires  d'Outre-Tombe,  I,  p.  410). 

i3  Manasseh  Cutler,  I,  p.  283. 


278  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 

Apres  ces  quelques  jours  d'attente,  Chateaubriand  fut  enfin 
recu  par  Washington.  Ici  je  n'insisterai  pas.  II  est  certain  que 
la  lettre  de  la  Rouerie  a  ete  remise  au  President  des  Etats-Unis. 
Je  ne  vois  pas  pourquoi  elle  n  'aurait  pas  ete  remise  par  Chateau- 
briand lui-meme.  Dans  l'ensemble  le  recit  des  Memoir es  cVOutre- 
Tombe  n'a  rien  d'invraisemblable,  et  je  serai  assez  dispose  pour 
ma  part  a  accepter  comme  authentique  le  "Well,  well,  young 
man,"  rapporte  par  Chateaubriand.  On  me  dirait  meme  que  ce 
furent  la  les  seules  paroles  prononcees  par  Washington  que  je 
n'en  serais  pas  autrement  etonne.  Qui  a  frequente  les  Ameri- 
cains  et  quelque  peu  discute  avec  eux,  sait  tres  bien  que  ces 
quatre  mots  peuvent  signifier  toute  autre  chose  que  de  1 'approba- 
tion et  de  l'admiration.  Sans  connaitre  les  pensees  secretes  de 
Washington,  il  est  permis  de  supposer  qu'a  cette  date  la  colonie 
du  Scioto  lui  donnait  assez  a  faire  pour  qu'il  n'eprouvat  pas  le 
desir  de  confier  une  mission  au  jeune  emigre  qui  lui  arrivait  de 
France  avec  une  recommandation  assez  vague  du  colonel  Armand. 
II  est  certain  en  tout  cas,  que  Chateaubriand  fut  decu : 

Je  ne  trouvai  aucun  encouragement  a  Philadelphie.  J'entrevis  des 
lors  que  le  but  de  ce  premier  voyage  serait  manque,  et  que  ma  course  ne 
serait  que  le  prelude  d  'un  second  et  plus  long  voyage.  J  'en  ecrivis  dans 
ce  sens  a  M.  de  Malesherbes  et,  en  attendant  l'avenir,  je  promis  a  la 
poesie  ce  qui  serait  perdu  pour  la  science.14 

Un  stage-coach  semblable  a  celui  qui  l'avait  amene  a  Phila- 
delphie le  conduisit  a  New  York :  on  mettait  alors  de  un  jour  et 
demi  a  deux  jours  suivant  la  saison  entre  les  deux  villes.15  II 
resta  a  New  York  un  temps  indetermine,  probablement  tres  peu, 
mais  au  moins  est-il  certain  qu'il  y  passa,  car  un  de  ses  anciens 
compagnons  de  jeu  sur  la  greve  de  Saint  Malo  se  souvenait  de 
l'y  avoir  recontre.10  De  New  York,  qu'il  ne  prend  pas  la  peine 
de  decrire,  Chateaubriand  va  en  pelerinage  a  Boston  saluer  le 
premier  champ  de  bataille  de  la  liberte  americaine.     "J'ai  vu 


iiM.  d'O.-T.,  I,  p.  366. 

is  Bedier,  Etudes  critiques,  p.  146;  Weld,  Travels  through  America,  I, 
p.  258  et  suiv. 

is  Ducrest  de  Villeneuve,  Le  Grand  Bey  (in-8;  Saint-Malo,  1850);  cite 
par  l'abbe  Bertrin,  p.  173. 


1915]  Chinard:    Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  279 

les  champs  de  Lexington,"  s'ecrie-t-il  avec  un  enthousiasme  pieux  ; 
mais  la  encore  aucune  description,  pas  un  mot  sur  Boston,  pas 
un  detail  sur  le  voyage  qu'il  put  accomplir  de  bien  des  fagons 
differentes,  soit  par  bateau,  ce  qui  etait  peut-etre  le  plus  simple, 
soit  en  suivant  le  littoral  par  New  Haven  et  Providence,  soit 
encore  en  coupant  vers  Boston  a  partir  de  Hartford.  Les  routes 
etaient  alors  peu  praticables ;  M.  Bedier  me  semble  avoir  indique 
un  minimum  en  accordant  a  Chateaubriand  douze  jours  pour 
faire  le  voyage  de  New  York  a  Boston  aller  et  retour. 

On  aimerait  avoir  quelques  renseignements  complementaires 
sur  cette  partie  du  voyage  de  Chateaubriand.  Si  le  but  de 
Chateaubriand  etait  de  gagner  Albany  immediatement  apres  avoir 
vu  les  champs  de  Lexington,  on  s'explique  mal  qu'il  ait  eprouve 
le  besoin  de  redescendre  de  Boston  a  New  York,  alors  que  la 
route  la  plus  directe  aurait  ete  de  partir  de  Boston  et  de  suivre 
a  peu  pres  le  trace  actuel  du  chemin  de  fer  de  Boston  a  Albany.17 
On  peut  cependant  supposer  que  Chateaubriand,  qui  alors  n  'avait 
pas  de  guide  et  se  fiait  peu  a  son  instinct  de  chasseur  pour  re- 
trouver  sa  route,  ait  prefere  gagner  Albany  par  une  voie  plus 
longue  mais  plus  commode  et  plus  sure.  Tous  les  voyageurs 
savent  du  reste  que  dans  les  pays  neufs,  la  ligne  droite  est  rare- 
ment  le  plus  court  chemin. 

Chateaubriand  remonte  1 'Hudson  en  bateau  de  New  York 
a  Albany,18  et  des  son  arrivee  dans  cette  derniere  ville,  il  se  met 
en  rapport  avec  un  certain  M.  Swift,  qui  lui  fait  des  objections 
tres  raisonnables,  et  1  'invite  avant  de  se  lancer  a  travers  le  conti- 
nent a  faire  son  apprentissage.  a  vivre  avec  les  coureurs  des  bois. 
et  a  frequenter  les  Indiens : 


it  M.  Stathers,  qui  abrege  singulierement  et  arbitrairement  la  premiere 
partie  du  voyage  de  Chateaubriand,  supprime  purement  et  simplement 
1 'excursion  a  Boston   (Stathers,  p.  72). 

isll  a  raconte  ce  voyage  a  deux  endroits,  dans  I'Essai,  I,  p.  234,  n., 
et  dans  les  Memoires  d'Outre-Tombe,  I,  367.  Les  deux  recits  different  par 
la  "couleur  locale."  La  premiere  description  des  rives  de  1 'Hudson 
beaucoup  plus  sobre  est  presque  identique  a  une  peinture  du  meme  paysage 
qui  se  trouve  chez  le  voyageur  anglais  Weld  (Travels  through  Anuria. 
I,  p.  268).  11  ne  peut  cependant  y  avoir  imitation  de  la  part  de  Chateau- 
briand puisqu'il  publia  I'Essai  alors  que  Weld  voyageait  encore  en 
Amerique. 


280  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 

Je  eachai  a  M.  Swift  mon  deplaisir;  je  le  priai  de  me  procurer  un 
guide  et  des  chevaux  pour  me  rendre  a  Niagara  et  a  Pittsbourg:  a  Pitts- 
bourg  je  descendrais  1  'Ohio,  et  je  recueillerais  des  notions  utiles  a  mes 
futurs  projets.    J 'avais  toujours  en  tete  mon  premier  plan  de  route. i» 

Ce  premier  plan  etait  sans  donte  eelui  qu'il  avait  propose  a 
Washington,  et  auquel  pourtant,  trois  pages  plus  haut.  il  nous 
affirmait  avoir  renonce.20  Resolu  a  eontinuer  son  voyage,  il  trouve 
un  guide,  s'equipe  en  coureur  des  bois,  se  munit  d'une  corne  pour 
rappeler  les  chiens  et  de  deux  peaux  d'ours.  l'une  pour  servir 
de  manteau  et  l'autre  de  couverture  pendant  la  nuit.21  Le  cos- 
tume etait  assez  peu  pratique  pour  courir  les  bois  a  cette  saison 
de  1'annee;  nous  sommes  en  effet  au  mois  d'aout,  au  plus  fort 
des  fameuses  "vagues  de  chaleur"  qui  suffoquent  les  plus  en- 
dureis  et  transforment  les  bois  en  veritables  bains  turcs.  Chateau- 
briand dut  vite  renoncer  a  sa  peau  d'ours,  si  seyante  qu'elle  fut, 
et  adopter  un  accoutrement  plus  approprie  a  la  saison.  De  ce 
que  le  costume  est  ridicule.  M.  Stathers  en  conclut  que  Chateau- 
briand n'a  pas  pu  le  porter,  ce  qui  ne  me  semble  pas  une  raison 
convaincante.  On  a  pu  vouloir  se  moquer  du  " tenderfoot'' 
qu 'etait  le  jeune  voyageur,  et  son  grand  Hollandais  a  tres  bien 
pu  le  laisser  s'equiper  a  sa  guise. 

Des  l'abord,  Chateaubriand  se  conduit  du  reste  de  faeon  a 
perdre  tout  prestige  aux  yeux  de  son  guide : 

Lorsqu'apres  avoir  passe  le  Mohawk,  j'entrai  dans  des  bois  qui 
n'avaient  jamais  ete  abattus,  je  fus  pris  d'une  sorte  d'ivresse  d'inde- 
pendance:  j 'allais  d'arbre  en  arbre,  a  gauche,  a  droite,  me  disant:  "Ici 
plus  de  chemins,  plus  de  villes,  plus  de  monarchie,  plus  de  republique, 
plus  de  presidents,  plus  de  rois,  plus  d  'homines. ' '  Et,  pour  essayer  si 
j'etais  retabli  dans  mes  droits  originels,  je  me  livrais  a  des  actes  de 
volonte  qui  faisaient  enrager  mon  guide,  lequel,  dans  son  ame,  me  croyait 
fou.-2 

Rien  n'est  plus  probable  en  effet.  Nous  examinerons  plus 
loin  les  incidents  du  voyage;  contentons-nous  pour  l'instant  de 
reehercher  quel  a  ete  l'itineraire  de  Chateaubriand.     L'ancien 

is  M.  d'0.-T.,I,  p.  369. 
20,1/.  d'O.-T.,  I,  p.  366. 
2i  If.  d'O.-T.,  I,  p.  372. 
22jtf.  d'O.-T.,  I,  p.  370. 


1915]  Chinard:    Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  281 

marmiton  du  general  Rochambeau  transforme  en  maitre  de  danse 
chez  les  Iroquois,  M.  Violet,  lui  donne  des  lettres  de  creance  pour 
les  Onondagas,  reste  d'une  des  six  nations  Iroquoises.  Chateau- 
briand, apres  les  avoir  retrouves,  campe  avec  eux  sur  les  bords 
du  lac  qui  porte  leur  nom,  repart  vers  les  concessions  de  la 
Genesee,  traverse  la  riviere  en  bac  et  arrive  a  trois  on  quatre 
lieues  du  Niagara,  au-dessus  de  la  cataracte;  quand  il  repart.  il 
suit  un  sentier  qui  le  mene  a  sept  ou  huit  cents  pas  au  dessus 
de  la  chute. 

Tons  ces  renseignements  sont  parfaitement  coherents.  Si 
cependant  Ton  consulte  une  carte  moderne,  on  se  demande  com- 
ment Chateaubriand  est  arrive  au  dessus  et  non  au  dessous  de 
la  cataracte.23  C'est  que  pour  cette  partie  de  son  itineraire 
Chateaubriand  suit  tres  exactement  la  piste  indienne  ou  Iroquois 
Trail  qui  reliait  Albany  au  Niagara,  en  longeant  le  Mohawk, 
traversant  le  pays  des  Oneidas,  puis  des  Onondagas,  et  de  la. 
apres  avoir  traverse  la  Seneca,  piquait  droit  vers  le  Niagara  et 
arrivait  a  cinq  ou  six  milles  au  dessus  de  la  chute.24  La  Genesee 
road  qui  suivait  a  peu  pres  la  ligne  de  la  piste  indienne  ne  fut 
construite  qu 'apres  un  vote  du  22  mars  1794  autorisant  les 
travaux.25  Nous  avons  done  un  itineraire  parfaitement  trace, 
parfaitement  plausible;  nous  pouvons  suivre  Chateaubriand  pas 
a  pas,  le  long  de  sa  route ;  il  nous  reste  maintenant  a  examiner  les 
episodes  du  voyage. 

Un  des  plus  curieux  est  la  visite  a  Philippe  Le  Cocq,  dont 
Chateaubriand  n'a  parle  qu'une  fois  dans  VEssai  sur  les  Revolu- 
tions, et  dont  l'authenticite  a  ete  mise  en  doute.20  On  me  per- 
mettra  de  donner  ici  le  passage  en  entier. 


23  C  'est  en  effet  ce  que  fait  Volney  qui  quelques  annees  plus  tard 
suit  une  autre  route  serrant  de  plus  pres  le  lac  Ontario  et  arrive  au 
bas  de  la  cataracte  (Tableau  du  climat  et  du  sol  des  Etats-Unis,  Paris, 
1803).     Volney  a  voyage  de  1795  a  1798. 

2*  Voir  sur  ce  point,  Archer  Butler  Hulbert,  Historic  Highways  of 
America:  Indian  Thoroughfares,  p.  68.  On  trouvera  egalement  dans  cet 
ouvrage  le  trace  de  I'Iroquois  Trail,  d 'apres  une  carte  dressee  en  1771  par 
Guy  Johnson  pour  le  gouverneur  de  New  York. 

^s  A.  B.  Hulbert,  Historic  Highways :  Pioneer  Roads,  IT,  eh.  iv. 

26  Essai  sur  les  Revolutions,  II,  p.  410  n. 


2S2  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 

Philippe  Le  Cocq,  d'une  petite  ville  de  Poitou,  passa  au  Canada  dans 
son  enfance,  y  servit  comme  soldat,  dans  la  guerre  de  1754,  et,  apres  la 
prise  de  Quebec,  se  retira  ehez  les  Cinq-Nations,  ou,  avant  epouse  une 
Indienne,  il  renonc,a  aux  coutumes  de  son  pays,  pour  prendre  les  moeurs 
des  Sauvages.  Lorsque  je  voyageais  chez  ces  peuples,  je  ne  fus  pas  peu 
surpris,  en  entendant  dire  que  j'avais  un  compatriote  etabli  a  quelque 
distance  dans  le  bois.  Je  courus  chez  lui;  je  le  trouvai  occupe  a  faire 
la  pointe  a  des  jalons,  a  l'ouverture  de  sa  hutte.  II  me  jeta  un  regard 
assez  froid  et  continua  son  ouvrage;  mais  aussitot  que  je  lui  adressai  la 
parole  en  francais,  il  tressaillit  au  souvenir  de  la  patrie,  et  la  grosse 
larme  roula  dans  ses  yeux.  Ces  accents  connus  avaient  reporte  soudaine- 
ment  dans  le  cceur  du  vieillard  toutes  les  sensations  de  son  enfance  .  .  . 
Philippe  me  pria  d'entrer;  je  le  suivis.  II  avait  de  la  peine  a  s'exprimer: 
je  le  voyais  travailler  a  rassembler  les  anciennes  idees  de  1  'homme  civil; 
et  j  'etudiai  avidement  cette  legon.  Par  exemple,  j  'eus  lieu  de  remarquer 
qu'il  y  avait  deux  especes  de  choses  relatives,  absolument  effacees  de 
sa  tete:  celle  de  la  propriete  du  superflu;  et  celle  de  la  nuisance  envers 
autrui  sans  necessite.  Je  ne  voulus  lui  faire  ma  grande  question  qu  'apres 
que  quelques  heures  de  conversation  lui  eurent  redonne  une  assez  grande 
quantite  de  mots  et  de  pensees.  A  la  fin  je  lui  dis:  "Philippe,  etes-vous 
heureux?"  II  ne  sut  d'abord  que  repondre.  "Heureux?"  dit-il  en 
reflechissant,  "heureux,  oui;  .  .  .  oui,  heureux,  depuis  que  je  suis 
sauvage. "  "Et  comment  passez-vous  votre  vie?"  repris-je.  II  se  mit 
a  rire.  "J'entends, "  dis-je,  "vous  pensez  que  cela  ne  vaut  pas  une 
reponse.  Mais  est-ce  que  vous  ne  voudriez  pas  reprendre  votre  ancienne 
vie,  retourner  dans  votre  pays?"  "Mon  pays,  la  France?  Si  je  n'etais 
pas  si  vieux,  j 'aimerais  a  le  revoir. "  "Et  vous  ne  voudriez  pas  y  rester?" 
ajoutai-je.  Le  mouvement  de  tete  de  Philippe  m  'en  dit  assez.  ' '  Et 
qu  'est-ce  qui  vous  a  determine  a  vous  faire,  comme  vous  le  dites, 
sauvage?"  "Je  n 'en  sais  rien,  l'instinct."  Ce  mot  du  vieillard  mit 
fin  a  mes  doutes  et  a  mes  questions.  Je  restai  deux  jours  chez  Philippe 
pour  1 'observer,  et  je  ne  le  vis  jamais  se  dementir  un  seul  instant:  son 
ame  libre  du  combat  des  passions  sociales,  me  sembla,  pour  m  'exprimer 
dans  le  style  des  Sauvages,  "calme  comme  le  champ  de  bataille,  apres 
que  les  guerriers  ont  fume  ensemble  le  calumet  de  paix. ' ' 

Tel  est  1  'episode  qui  pour  M.  Stathers  n  'est  qu  'un  ' '  embellisse- 
ment  du  recit"  car  il  ne  figure  que  dans  VEssai  sur  les  Revolu- 
tions. L 'argument  me  semble  tres  faible.  II  est  parfaitement 
comprehensible  que  Chateaubriand  ait  supprime  dans  ses  ouv- 
rages  ulterieurs  un  passage  qui  comportait  une  attaque  contre  la 
vie  de  societe,  une  confirmation  des  theories  de  Rousseau.  Un 
tel  passage  ne  serait  a  sa  place  ni  dans  le  Genie,  ni  dans  Atala, 
et  Ton  s'explique  tres  bien  que  pour  la  meme  raison  Chateau- 


1915]  Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  283 

briand  n'ait  cru  devoir  le  reproduire  ni  dans  les  Memoires,  ni 
dans  le  Voyage. 

Loin  de  considerer  ce  passage  comme  un  embellissement.  j'y 
vois  au  contraire  la  preuve  que  cette  experience  a  ete  vecue  par 
Chateaubriand.  Les  paroles  qu'il  prete  a  Philippe  Le  Coci|  sont 
parfaitement  naturelles,  entierement  en  accord  avec  ce  que  nous 
savons  des  "sauvages"  volontaires  qui  fuyaient  la  civilisation,  el 
jusqu'a  meilleure  preuve  du  contraire,  nous  persisterons  a  croire 
a  l'authenticite  de  la  visite  de  Chateaubriand  au  vieux  soldat 
Poitevin. 

Nombreux  en  effet  a  cette  date  etaient  les  civilises  qui  par 
choix  renoncaient  a  la  vie  en  commun  avec  les  blancs  et  allaient 
seuls  ou  dans  quelque  tribu  indienne  vivre  de  la  libre  vie  de 
l'homme  de  la  nature.  On  pourrait  en  citer  des  centaines  d'ex- 
emples ;  je  me  contenterai  de  quelques-uns  qui  aideront  a  faire 
comprendre  la  psychologie  de  Philippe  Le  Cocq.  Quelques  annees 
plus  tard,  un  voyageur  anglais,  Baily,  descendant  l'Ohio,  apereut 
sur  la  riviere  un  petit  canot  qui  contenait  un  vieillard  ayant  a 
cote  de  lui  un  chien,  un  fusil  et  quelques  objets  de  campement. 
C  'etait  le  vieux  colonel  Boone,  le  f ondateur  des  premieres  colonies 
americaines  de  l'Ohio,  l'homme  qui  avait  amene  la  civilisation 
dans  le  desert.  Comme  Baily  le  complimentait  et  lui  demandait 
s'il  n'eprouvait  pas  bien  de  la  fierte  a  voir  des  villages  prosperes 
s  'elever  sur  les  rives  de  ce  fleuve  qu  'il  avait  fait  connaitre — 

En  reponse  le  vieillard  secoua  la  tete  et  s'ecria  que  les  colons 
devenaient  trop  orgueilleux.  II  comment  alors  un  discours  sur  les 
inconvenients  des  societes  trop  civilisees.  Je  compris  ce  qu  'il  voulait 
dire,  et  je  m  'apercjis  bientot  qu  'il  appartenait  a  cette  classe  d  'homines 
qui  par  leur  nature  et  leurs  habitudes  etaient  tout  proches  des  Indiens, 
et  que  l'on  peut  considerer  comme  les  pionniers  des  pays  neufs.  II  dit 
qu'on  lui  avait  donne  une  grande  quantite  de  terres,  au  moment  de  la 
premiere  colonisation  du  pays;  mais  que  des  que  des  societes  avaient 
commence  a  se  former  autour  de  lui,  il  avait  partage  ses  terres  entre 
les  membres  de  sa  famille,  ne  voulant  pas,  selon  sa  propre  expression, 
vivre  avec  des  hommes  qui  etaient  esclaves  de  leurs  habitudes,  et  se 
refusaient  a  jouir  librement  des  bienfaits  que  la  nature  leur  avait 
prodigues.  Depuis  ce  temps,  me  dit-il,  il  avait  passe  une  grande  partie 
de  sa  vie  pres  de  la  frontiere,  et  pour  le  moment  allait  chasser  des  castors 


284  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.4 

dans  une  partie  retiree  des  bois,  ou  il  pourrait,  sans  etre  trouble,  prendre 
son  plaisir  a  son  gre,  et  jouir  du  bonheur  qui  resulte  d  'une  vie  retiree  et 
isolee.27 

Plus  tard,  en  plein  desert,  Baily  rencontra  encore 

un  de  ces  hommes  comme  il  y  en  a  tant  qui  par  habitude  et  disposition 
naturelle,  preferent  le  genre  de  vie  des  Indiens  a  un  etat  plus  civilise, 
et,  a  force  de  vivre  dans  les  pays  frontieres,  ont  fini  par  s'etablir  chez 
les  indigenes  et  par  etre  adoptes  par  eux.  Des  hommes  de  cette  sorte  se 
peuvent  trouver  dans  tous  les  pays  indiens.2S 

L 'episode  de  M.  Violet  est  trop  eonnu  pour  qu'il  soit  besoin 
d  'en  rappeler  le  sujet.  C  'est  une  des  plus  amusantes  experiences 
de  Chateaubriand  en  Amerique.  et  il  a  reproduit  a  plusieurs 
reprises  la  page  ou  il  raconte  comment,  alors  qu'il  se  croyait  en 
pleine  foret  vierge,  et  loin  de  tout  souvenir  de  la  civilisation,  il 
avait  subitement  recontre  un  ancien  marmiton  du  general 
Roehambeau  qui  devenu  maitre  de  danse  chez  les  Iroquois, 
faisait  sauter  messieurs  les  sauvages  et  mesdames  les  sauvagesses 
sur  l'air  de  "Madelon  Friquet."29  M.  Stathers  ne  voit  encore 
la  qu'un  embellissement.  et  j'ai  cru  moi-meme  avoir  decouvert 
la  source  toute  livresque  de  cet  episode  dans  la  relation  fan- 
taisiste  de  l'avocat  Lebeau,  qui  prisonnier  chez  les  Iroquois  leur 
apprenait  a  danser  sur  l'air  de  "Nanon  dormait  sur  la  fougere.  "30 
Je  n'oserais  plus  etre  aussi  affirmatif  aujourd'hui.  Nous  n'avons 
aucun  moyen  certain  de  controler  l'exactitude  du  recit  de 
Chateaubriand,  mais  quand  on  a  In  de  nombreuses  relations  de 
voyageurs  de  cette  date,  on  ne  peut  s'empecher  de  le  trouver  au 
moins  possible.     M.  Violet  n'est  pas  plus  extraordinaire  que  ce 


2"  Francis  Baily,  Journal  of  a  Tour  in  Unsettled  parts  of  North 
America  in  1796  and  1797  (London,  1856),  p.  235.  Le  colonel  Boone  est 
un  personnage  historique;  il  a  laisse  des  memoires  qui  ont  ete  publies 
par  Imlay  dans  sa  Topographical  Description  of  the  Western  Territory  of 
North  America  (London,  1792);  un  voyageur  franqais  de  la  fin  du  XVIIIe 
siecle,  Perrin  du  Lac,  en  a  longuement  parle  et  a  etudie  avec  curiosite 
ces  gens  qu  'il  appelle  les  ' '  chasseurs, ' '  et  qui  ' '  sont  pour  le  moins  aussi 
sauvages  que  les  Indiens  qui  habitaient  dans  ce  pays  il  y  a  un  siecle." 

28  Baily,  p.  368. 

29  if.  d'O.-T.,  I,  p.  371. 

3o"TJne  Nouvelle  source  d'Atala,"  Modern  Language  Notes,  XXV 
(1910),  137:  Stathers,  p.  83. 


1915]  Ckinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  285 

general  ( ?)  francais  que  rencontra  Baily  en  1796  et  qui  descendait 
seul  l'Ohio  dans  un  canot  d'ecorce,  n'ayant  pour  tout  bagage 
que  son  fusil  et  son  violon.31  De  ses  anciennes  richesses  il  n  'avait 
lui  aussi  conserve  que  son  violon,  ce  curieux  comte  Vipart  qui 
venu  de  la  Guadeloupe  dans  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  des  1790, 
faisait  retentir  d'airs  de  danse  les  rives  du  Merrimac.  Ce  n'etait 
pas  sans  raison  qu'a  la  fin  du  XVIIIe  siecle  un  voyageur  francais 
constatait  que  ses  compatriotes  avaient  introduit  chez  les  rudes 
Americains  les  arts  de  la  danse  et  de  la  musique.  C'etait  encore 
un  francais,  enfin,  Bossu  qui  au  milieu  de  XVIIIe  siecle  pre- 
tendait  qu'avec  un  violon  ou  une  flute  on  pourrait  traverser  sans 
crainte  tout  le  continent  americain  et  recevoir  partout  le  meilleur 
accueil  des  sauvages.  Je  ne  sais  si  Chateaubriand  a  rencontre 
ou  non  le  bon  M.  Violet,  mais  1 'existence  de  l'ancien  marmiton 
de  Rochambeau  me  parait  tout  aussi  probable  que  celle  de  M. 
Swift  ou  du  guide  hollandais. 

Je  defendrai  egalement  la  vraisemblance  de  la  peinture  que 
fait  Chateaubriand  de  la  colonie  naissante  de  la  Genesee.  II  y 
a  la  quelque  chose  de  vu,  et  s'il  ne  m'a  pas  ete  possible  d'en 
retrouver  les  sources  livresques,  les  ouvrages  contemporains 
nous  confirment  1 'exactitude  de  cette  description.  Ce  melange 
curieux  de  simplicity  presque  sauvage  et  de  civilisation  est  bien 
en  effet  ce  qui  frappe  dans  les  nouveaux  settlements  americains. 
Ces  fleches  de  clocher  (en  bois,  naturellement)  qui  s'elevent  du 
sein  des  forets ;  ces  maisons  f aites  de  poutres  grossierement  equar- 
ries,  baties  a  quelques  milles  d'un  village  indien  mais  ou  de 
belles  jeunes  filles  aux  cheveux  anneles  chantent  du  Cimarosa  ou 
un  cantabile  de  Passiello,  existaient  encore  il  n'y  a  pas  si  long- 
temps  dans  les  pays  neufs  de  l'Ouest  americain,  et  peut-etre  ne 
faudrait-il  pas  chercher  beaucoup  pour  en  trouver  encore 
d 'analogues.  Nous  savons  de  plus  que,  des  cette  date,  il  y  avait 
de  trois  a  quatre  mille  colons  dans  cette  region  nouvellement 
ouverte  a  la  civilisation ;  on  commencait  a  batir  des  eglises  et  des 
chapelles,  et  au  printemps  de  1791,  le  Reverend  Ross  etablissait 
une  "Academy"  pour  l'instruction  de  la  jeunesse  des  deux  sexes 


si  Baily,  p.  151. 


286  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology       [Vol.  4 

dans  le  comte  de  Cannadarqua.32  La  visite  d'un  jeune  francais 
arrivant  tout  droit  de  Paris  pouvait  etre  considered  comme  une 
aubaine  par  les  jeunes  filles  de  quelque  maison  de  riche  fermier, 
et  dans  ce  que  l'anecdote  a  au  premier  abord  de  deconcertant  je 
ne  vois  qu'une  preuve  de  plus  de  la  veracite  de  Chateaubriand. 
Je  ne  rappellerai  que  pour  memoire  l'histoire  de  la  pauvre 
Indienne,  etablie  pres  des  settlements  des  blancs  et  rudoyee  par 
les  fermiers  americains ;  il  est  impossible  de  controler  le  temoign- 
age  de  Chateaubriand,  sur  ce  point  au  moms ;  on  peut  1  'accepter 
ou  le  re jeter  selon  que  Ton  a  le  desir  d'allonger  ou  de  raccourcir 
son  itineraire.  J 'en  dirai  autant  de  la  visite  au  vieux  Sachem 
des  Onondagas.  Bien  que  j  'aie  retrouve  chez  un  voyageur  anglais 
des  passages  qui  ressemblent  singulierement  a  quelques  phrases 
de  Chateaubriand,  les  ressemblances  ne  me  paraissent  pas  assez 
etroites  pour  permettre  de  se  prononcer  sans  hesitation.  D'un 
rapprochement  de  ce  genre  on  peut  conclure  que  Chateaubriand 
a  simplement  decrit  ce  qu'il  a  vu  et  ce  qui  existait  en  realite.  Je 
transcrirai  cependant  le  texte  d  'Isaac  Weld  a  cote  du  texte  de 
Chateaubriand,  pour  montrer  que  bien  avant  Beltrami,  quoi 
qu'en  pense  M.  Dick,  on  avait  montre  des  sauvages  portant  1 'ac- 
coutrement du  vieux  Sachem.33 


Le  Sachem  des  Onondagas 
etait  un  viedl  Iroquois  dans  toute 
la  rigueur  du  mot:  sa  personne 
gardait  le  souvenir  des  anciens 
usages  et  des  anciens  temps  du 
desert:  grandes  oreilles  decou- 
ples, perle  pendante  au  nez,  visage 
bariole  de  diverses  couleurs, 
petite  touffe  de  cheveux  sur  le 
sommet  de  la  tete,  tunique  bleue, 
manteau  de  peau,  ceinture  de  cuir 
avec  le  couteau  de  scalpe  et  le 
casse-tete,    bras    tatoues,     mocas- 


In  some  tribes,  the  men,  in- 
stead of  boring  their  ears,  slit 
them  along  the  outward  edge  from 
top  to  bottom,  and  as  soon  as  the 
gash  is  healed,  hang  heavy 
weights  to  them,  in  order  to 
stretch  the  rim  thus  separated  as 
low  down  as  possible  .  .  .  Some 
of  the  men  wear  pendants  in  their 
noses,  but  these  are  not  so  com- 
mon as  earrings.  .  .  .  The  Indians 
not  only  paint  themselves  when 
they  go  to  war,  but  likewise  when 
they  wish  to  appear  full  dressed. 
.  .  .  The  long  lock  of  hair  on  the 
top  of  the  head,  with  the  skin  on 


32  G.  Imlay,  A   Topographical  Description  of  the  Western  Territory  of 
North  America,  London,  1797,  pp.  458-481. 

33  Dick,  Plagiats  de  CMteaubriand,  p.  40. 


1915]  Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  287 

sines  aux  pieds,   chapelet   on   col-  which    it    grows,    constitutes    the 

lier    de    porcelaine    a    la    main. —  true  scalp.     They  also  wear  round 

(Voyage,  p.  44).  the    waist    another    string,    from 

which  are  suspended  two  little 
aprons  somewhat  more  than  a 
foot  square. — (Weld,  II,  pp.  230- 
237). 

Quant  au  discours  adresse  par  le  vieux  Sachem  a  Chateau- 
briand, il  presente  la  merae  vraisemblance.  Point  n'est  besoin 
d 'avoir  recours  a  Beltrami  pour  confirmer  ce  fait,  que  les  Indiens 
avaient  garde  un  souvenir  reconnaissant  des  voyageurs  et  des 
colons  francais,  quand  tant  d'autres  voyageurs  avant  lui  l'avaient 
constate  et  quand  Chateaubriand  lui-meme  l'avait  pu  constater.34 

Quand  Chateaubriand  arrive  pres  de  la  cataracte,  il  est  arrete 
par  une  sorte  de  gendarmerie  indigene  a  la  solde  des  Anglais,  et 
reste  dans  le  village  indien  tandis  que  son  guide  va  au  Fort 
Niagara  chercher  un  permis  afin  d'entrer  sur  les  terres  de  la 
domination  britannique.  "Mon  guide  revint  avec  le  permis:  je 
le  conserve  encore;  il  est  signe  le  capitaine  Gordon.  N'est-il  pas 
singulier  que  j  'aie  retrouve  le  meme  nom  anglais  sur  la  porte  de 
ma  cellule  a  Jerusalem?"35 

II  y  a  la  une  serie  de  faits  qu'il  est  possible  de  verifier,  et 
qu'en  bonne  critique  il  aurait  fallu  verifier  avant  de  mettre  en 
doute  la  veracite  de  Chateaubriand.  Tout  d'abord  il  est  his- 
torique  que  les  Anglais  retinrent  longtemps  en  leur  possession  les 
forts  situes  sur  la  rive  americaine  du  Niagara  a  la  grande  indigna- 
tion du  peuple  des  Etats-Unis.36  Chateaubriand  devait  done  avoir 
un  laisser-passer  anglais  pour  approcher  de  la  cataracte,  bien 
qu'il  se  trouvat  sur  un  territoire  qui  appartenait  legitimement 
aux  Etats-Unis.  II  est  de  plus  certain  que  l'officier  anglais  qui 
commandait  le  poste  anglais  de  Niagara  s'appelait  bien  Gordon.37 


3-t ' '  The  old  Indians  still  say  that  they  were  never  so  happy  as  when 
the  French  had  possession  of  the  country;  and  indeed,  it  is  a  very  re- 
markable fact,  which  I  before  mentioned,  that  the  Indians,  if  they  are 
hungry,  if  they  want  shelter  from  a  storm,  or  the  like,  will  always  go 
to  the  houses  of  the  old  French  settlers  in  preference  to  those  of  the 
British  inhabitants"  (Weld,  II,  p.  200). 

35  M.  d'O.-T.,  I,  p.  3S4. 

36  Sur  ce  point  voir  en  particulier  Weld,  II,  pp.  96-102. 

37  Voir  Life  of  Joseph  Brant-Thayendanegea  (2  vols.;  New  York,  1838), 
II,  p.  297. 


288  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 

L  'ouvrage  ou  j  'ai  retrouve  son  nom  lui  donne  il  est  vrai  le  grade 
de  colonel  et  non  de  eapitaine;  mais  le  nom  est  bien  le  meme  et 
c'est  la  l'essentiel.  Voila  done  deux  petits  faits  qui  confirment 
la  veracite  de  Chateaubriand,  et  deux  faits  qui  me  paraissent 
decisifs.  Pour  mettre  encore  en  doute  le  voyage  de  Chateau- 
briand au  Niagara,  il  faudrait  d'abord  montrer  dans  quel  ouv- 
rage  il  avait  pu  trouver  des  indications  sur  la  situation  politique 
du  pays,  et  le  nom  de  l'officier  commandant  le  fort. 

On  se  souvient  comment,  en  voulant  descendre  au  bas  de  la 
cataracte,  bien  que  l'echelle  indienne  qui  y  conduisait  fut  rompue, 
Chateaubriand  fit  une  chute  des  plus  dangereuses.  Un  tel  acci- 
dent etait  tres  possible,  et  dans  les  conditions  meme  ou  Chateau- 
briand nous  le  decrit : 

On  ne  peut  arriver  au  bas  de  la  cataracte  qu'a  deux  endroits  ou  la 
descente  est  quelque  peu  facilitee  par  des  ecroulements  du  rocher  [nous 
dit  Weld] ;  le  premier  se  trouve  du  cote  du  f  er  a  cheval  et  s  'appelle 
l'echelle  indienne;  ce  sont  simplement  des  troncs  de  sapins  avec  des 
entailles  de  distance  en  distance  pour  que  l'on  puisse  y  placer  le  pied; 
mais  comme  les  troncs  sont  tres  longs,  les  echelles  vibrent  des  que  Ton 
y  pose  le  pied,  et  le  temps  les  a  rendues  dangereuses  de  peu  sures  qu  'elles 
etaient.ss 

Weld,  qui  voyage  en  1797,  n'essaie  meme  pas  de  descendre  a  cet 
endroit ;  il  suit  le  courant  et  arrive  au  point  ou  se  trouvaient  les 
echelles  de  Mrs.  Simcoe : 

Cette  fois  ce  sont  de  veritables  echelles,  et  une  dame  peut  a  la  rigueur 
s'en  servir;  la  il  y  avait  un  certain  nombre  d'arbres  dont  les  racines 
s'accrochaient  au  rocher  et  qui  croissaient  pour  ainsi  dire  la  tete  en  bas. 

Chateaubriand  n'a  done  pas  exagere  le  danger  qu'il  eourut  et 
les  difficultes  de  l'entreprise ;  il  a  pu  ajouter  quelques  details  pour 
rendre  la  scene  plus  dramatique  ou  plus  romantique ;  on  aurait 
tort  d'en  nier  a  priori  la  realite. 

Comme  la  relation  de  Weld  ne  parut  qu'en  1799.  et  que  des 
1796  Chateaubriand  avait  donne  dans  VEssai  le  recit  de  la  chute 
qu'il  fit  au  Niagara  et  sa  premiere  description  de  la  cataracte,  il 


38  Weld,  II,  pp.  122-123. 


1915]  Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  289 

ne  peut  s'agir  ici  de  "plagiat."39  Weld  lui  aussi  nous  eonfirme 
que 

le  courant  rejette  sur  une  sorte  de  greve  des  poissons,  des  ecureuils  et 
des  renards  en  grande  quantites.  Ces  animaux  avaient  ete  entraines  par 
les  rapides  et  etaient  tout  meurtris  et  dechiquetes  par  les  rocs.  L'odeur 
qui  s'en  exhalait  etait  epouvantable,  et  Ton  pouvait  voir  des  quantites 
d  'oiseaux  de  proie  planant  continuellement  au  dessus.4o 

II  n'y  manque  que  le  carcajou  se  suspendant  par  la  queue  au 
dessus  de  la  cataracte  ! 

Si  nous  nous  souvenons  de  plus  que  Chateaubriand  quelques 
mois  plus  tard  repondra  a  Rivarol,  a  Bruxelles,  qu'il  revient  de 
Niagara,  il  apparaitra  certain  que  l'auteur  d'Atala  avait  bien  vu 
la  fameuse  cataracte  et  que  cette  fois  au  moins  il  a  du  travailler 
en  s  'aidant  de  ses  notes  et  de  ses  souvenirs  plus  que  des  relations 
de  ses  predecesseurs.41 

Jusqu'ici  nous  ne  nous  sommes  pas  occupes  du  temps  mis  par 
Chateaubriand  pour  aller  de  Baltimore  au  Niagara.  C'est  qu'ici 
nous  sommes  sur  un  terrain  beaucoup  moins  sur.  Pour  M.  Bedier, 
Chateaubriand  n  'a  pu  arriver  au  Niagara  avant  le  27  aoiit ;  tandis 
que  M.  Stathers  conclut  que  Chateaubriand  a  eu  tout  le  temps 
d 'arriver  a  la  cataracte  avant  le  premier  aout.  II  est  vrai  que  M. 
Stathers  n 'arrive  a  cette  conclusion  qu'en  supprimant  la  ren- 
contre de  M.  Violet,  la  chasse  au  loup  cervier,  la  visite  a  Philippe 
Le  Cocq,  les  aventures  du  Niagara,  sans  compter  le  voyage  a 
Boston  et  l'attente  a  Philadelphie,  ce  qui  est  vraiment  trop  com- 
mode. Nous  ne  reprendrons  pas  point  par  point  la  demonstra- 
tion de  M.  Bedier  qui  subsiste  dans  son  ensemble.  Chateaubriand 
arrive  le  10  juillet  a  Baltimore  n'a  pas  pu  arriver  au  Niagara 
avant  la  fin  du  mois  d'aout.  II  lui  restait  un  peu  plus  de  trois 
mois  pour  accomplir  le  reste  de  son  voyage.  C'est  la  la  partie 
la  plus  contest ee  de  son  itineraire,  et  c'est  la  qu'il  nous  faut 
maintenant  etudier  les  textes  de  pres.  Pour  en  mieux  montrer 
la  signification,  il  nous  a  paru  utile  de  les  reproduire  dans  leur 
ordre  meme  de  publication. 


39  Essai,  II,  p.  237,  n. 

40  Weld,  II,  pp.  124-125. 
4i  M.  d'O.-T.,  II,  p.  50. 


290  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.4 


III 

LE  VOYAGE  DANS  LES  "TERRES  DE  L'OUEST" 

1.     Essai  sur  les  Revolutions 

Nous  negligerons  tout  d'abord  les  passages  ou  Chateaubriand 
expose  ses  plans;  ce  qu'il  dit  avoir  fait  et  non  ce  qu'il  voulait 
faire  importe  seul  ici. 

J'ai  reeueilli  moi-meme  un  grand  nombre  d 'observations  botaniques  et 
mineralogiques  sur  1  'antiquite  de  la  terre.  J  'ai  compte  sur  des  mon- 
tagnes  d'une  hauteur  mediocre  qui  courent  du  sud-est  au  nord-ouest  par 
le  42°  degre  de  latitude  septentrionale  en  Amerique,  jusqu  'a  treize 
generations  de  chenes,  evidemment  successives  sur  le  meme  sol  .  .  .  Le 
manuscrit  de  ees  voyages  dont  on  trouvera  quelques  extraits  dans 
l'ouvrage  que  je  donne  ici  au  public,  a  peri,  avec  le  reste  de  ma  fortune, 
dans  la  revolution. — Essai,  I,  p.  29,  n. 

Lorsque  dans  l'interieur  du  Canada,  je  gravissais  une  montagne,  mes 
regards  se  portaient  vers  l'Ouest,  sur  les  deserts  infrequentes  qui 
s'etendent  sur  cette  longitude. — Essai,  I,  p.  244. 

Plusieurs  autres  passages  ont  trait  a  la  premiere  partie  du 
voyage  et  nous  n'y  reviendrons  pas.  Nous  devons  cependant 
retenir  de  ces  deux  citations  que  Chateaubriand,  a  cette  date, 
ne  parle  ni  de  l'Ohio  ni  du  Mississipi.  S'il  s'en  etait  tenu  a 
VEssai,  on  pourrait  croire  qu'il  n'a  voyage  qu'au  Canada. 

2.  At  ala 
Atala  ne  eontient  guere  plus  de  precisions.  Par  la  lettre 
adressee  au  Journal  des  Debats,  nous  savons  qu' 'Atala  a  ete  ecrite 
sous  les  huttes  memes  des  sauvages.  La  Preface  nous  donne  en- 
core le  plan  du  voyage  de  Chateaubriand,  mais  ne  dit  rien  du 
voyage  reellement  accompli.  L'auteur  affirme  seulement.  avec 
une  fierte  de  debutant  qui  est  assez  amusante,  "qu'il  n'y  a  pas 
une  circonstance  interessante  des  mceurs  des  sauvages  qu'il  n'ait 
touchee,  pas  un  bel  effet  de  la  nature,  pas  un  beau  site  de  la 
Nouvelle  France  qu'il  n'ait  decrit."     Dans  les  dernieres  lignes 


1915]  Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  291 

de  la  Preface  se  trouvent  cependant  des  affirmations  plus  nettes : 
"il  est  certain  que  j'ai  trouve  des  Sauvages  emportant  les  restes 
de  leurs  aieux,  et  une  jeune  mere  exposant  le  corps  de  son  enfant 
sur  les  branches  d  'un  arbre ;  quelques  circonstances  aussi  sont 
veritables;  mais  comme  elles  ne  sont  pas  d'un  interet  general, 
je  suis  dispense  d'en  parler. "  Enfin  un  passage  de  1 'epilogue 
apporte  un  fait  nouveau : 

J'avais  parcouru  les  rivages  du  Meschacebe,  qui  formaient  au  midi 
les  magnifiques  barieres  de  la  Nouvelle  France,  et  j  'etais  cnrieux  de 
voir  au  Nord  1 'autre  merveille  de  cet  empire,  la  cataracte  de  Niagara. 
J 'etais  arrive  tout  pres  de  cette  chute  dans  l'ancien  pays  des  Agannon- 
sioni,  lorsqu'un  matin,  en  traversant  une  plaine,  j'apercjus  une  femme 
assise  sous  un  arbre.  .  .  .  — AtaJa,  Epilogue. 

Voila  qui  est  inattendu!  Pour  la  premiere  fois,  Chateau- 
briand mentionne  un  voyage  dans  le  sud,  sur  les  rives  du  Mis- 
sissipi,  et  en  meme  temps  indique  tres  nettement  que  c'est  au 
retour  de  ce  voyage  qu'il  vit  la  cataracte.  Evidemment  cet 
itineraire  ne  saurait  se  discuter;  peut-etre  n'y  faut-il  voir  que  le 
desir  de  l'auteur  d'etablir  une  gradation  dans  ses  paysages  et  de 
terminer  son  recit  par  une  description  grandiose  de  la  cataracte. 
Mais  si  je  ne  me  trompe,  c  'est  bien  la  premiere  fois  que  Chateau- 
briand affirme  formellement  qu'il  a  vu  le  "Meschacebe." 

3.     Genie  du  Christianisme 
Tout  d'abord  nous  trouvons  des  renseignements  assez  vagues: 

Nous  l'avons  visitee  au  milieu  de  la  nuit,  la  vallee  solitaire  habitee 
par  les  castors,  ombragee  par  des  sapins,  et  rendue  toute  silencieuse  par 
la  presence  d'un  astre  aussi  paisible  que  le  peuple  dont  elle  eclairait  les 
travaux. — Genie,  V,  ch.  iv. 

On  trouve  au  pied  des  monts  Apalaches,  dans  les  Florides,  des  fon- 
taines  qu  'on  appelle  puits  naturels. — Genie,  V,  ch.  x. 

Mais  le  passage  est  dans  un  style  impersonnel;  rien  n 'indique 
que  Chateaubriand  veuille  faire  croire  a  son  lecteur  qu'il  a  ob- 
serve lui-meme  les  "charmantes  retraites  habitees  par  un  croco- 
dile qui  se  tient  immobile  au  milieu  du  bassin."  Tout  au  con- 
traire,  il  renvoie  en  note  a  Bartram,  Voyage  dans  les  Carolines  et 
dans  les  Florides. 


292  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.4 

Quelques  lignes  plus  loin,  dans  le  meme  chapitre.  se  trouve 
une  indication  tout  aussi  vague :  ' '  Un  Espagnol  des  Florides  nous 
a  conte  ..."  suit  le  recit  d'un  trait  d 'amour  maternel  chez 
une  femelle  de  crocodile. 

Une  autre  fois  encore,  dans  le  Genie,  Chateaubriand  semble 
avoir  voulu  donner  1 'impression  qu'il  a  visite  les  Florides,  quand 
parlant  des  oiseaux  migrateurs,  oies,  sarcelles.  canards,  il  a joute : 
"Nous  en  avons  rencontre  nous-meme  des  milliers,  depuis  le 
golfe  de  Saint  Laurent  jusqu'a  la  pointe  de  l'isthme  des  Flori- 
des."— Genie,  V.  ch.  e. 

Mais,  et  ceci  est  plus  important,  nous  trouvons  encore  une 
fois  une  mention  precise  du  Mississipi : 

J'ai  rencontre  moi-meme  un  de  ces  apotres  au  milieu  des  solitudes 
amerieaines.  Un  matin  que  je  cheminai  lentement  dans  les  forets, 
j  'apercus  venant  a  moi  un  grand  vieillard  a  barbe  blanche,  vetu  d  'une 
longue  robe,  lisant  attentivement  dans  un  livre,  et  marchant  appuye  sur 
un  baton;  il  etait  tout  illumine  par  un  rayon  de  l'aurore  .  .  .  C 'etait  no 
missionnaire  de  la  Louisiane;  il  revenait  de  la  Xouvelle  Orleans  et 
retournait  aux  Illinois,  ou  il  dirigeait  un  petit  troupeau  de  Francais  et 
de  Sauvages  Chretiens.  II  m  'accompagna  pendant  plusieurs  jours  ...  — 
Genie,  IV,  ch.  vii. 

Suit  alors  un  resume  des  conversations  que  Chateaubriand  eut 
avec  le  vieux  missionnaire.  et  cette  note :  ' '  nous  etions  alors  assis 
au  bord  d'un  fleuve  dont  nous  ne  savions  pas  le  nom." 

Chateaubriand  rencontre  le  venerable  vieillard  a  un  point  qui 
est  forcement  au  sud  de  Saint  Louis  des  Illinois;  comme  il  l'ac- 
compagne  durant  plusieurs  jours  on  doit  admettre  que  tous  deux 
se  dirigent  vers  le  nord.  Ce  serait  done  lors  du  retour  de 
Chateaubriand  que  la  rencontre  se  serait  produite.  Pour  etre 
complet  mentionnons  encore  une  allusion  aux  lagunes  de  Floride 
dans  Vltineraire : 

Des  palmiers,  et  un  minaret  nous  annoncerent  1 'emplacement  de 
Rosette;  mais  le  plan  meme  de  la  terre  etait  invisible.  Ces  plages  res- 
semblaient  aux  lagunes  de  Floride.1 

Ici  encore  le  texte  tend  a  donner  l'impression  que  Chateau- 
briand a  voyage  sur  la  cote  des  Florides;  mais  un  passage  du 


Itineraire  de  Paris  a  Jerusalem,  II,  p.  201. 


1915]  Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  293 

Voyage  montre  que  c  'est  au  moment  meme  de  son  debarquement 
que  Chateaubriand  apercut  ces  lagunes : 

Quelques  jours  apres  cet  incident,  nous  apergumes  la  terre;  elle  etait 
dessinee  par  la  cime  de  quelques  arbres  qui  semblaient  sortir  du  sein  de 
l'eau:  les  palmiers  de  1 'embouchure  du  Nil  me  decouvrirent  depuis  le 
rivage  de  1  'Egypte  de  la  meme  maniere.2 

C'est  par  Chateaubriand  lui-meme  que  Ton  pent  ici  corriger 
Chateaubriand. 

4.     Memoires  d'Outre-Tombe 

Les  passages  qui  concernent  l'itineraire  de  Chateaubriand 
dans  les  Memoires  et  dans  le  Voyage  ont  evidemment  une  origine 
commune:  le  fameux  manuscrit  d&s  Natchez.  J'ai  cru  cepend- 
ant  qu  'il  valait  mieux  les  analyser  separement :  on  verra  ainsi 
comment  Chateaubriand  a  modifie  ou  supprime  certains  details 
d'un  ouvrage  a  l'autre. 

D 'apres  les  Memoires,  notre  voyageur  reste  douze  jours  chez 
les  Indiens  de  Niagara: 

J'y  vis  passer  des  tribus  qui  descendaient  de  Detroit  ou  des  pays 
situes  au  midi  et  a  1 'orient  du  lac  Erie.  Je  m'enquis  de  leurs  coutumes; 
j  'obtins  pour  de  petits  presents  des  representations  de  leurs  anciennes 
moeurs,  car  ces  moeurs  elles  memes  n 'existent  plus. — M.  d'O.-T.,  I,  p.  390. 

C  'est  a,  ce  moment  que  se  place  le  delicieux  episode  de  la  petite 
Indienne  agee  de  quatorze  ans  qui  pour  lui  chante  et  danse  (M. 
d'O.-T.,  I,  p.  391). 

La  tribu  de  la  petite  fille  a  la  perle  partit;  mon  guide,  le  Hollandais, 
refusa  de  m'accompagner  au-dela  de  la  cataracte;  je  le  payai  et  je 
m'associai  avec  des  traflquants  qui  partaient  pour  descendre  l'Ohio;  je 
jetai  avant  de  partir,  un  coup  d  'ceil  sur  les  lacs  du  Canada  ...  — 
M.  d'O.-T.,  I,  p.  399. 

Suit  un  court  passage  non  sur  tous  les  lacs  du  Canada,  mais 
sur  le  lac  Erie : 

Partis  des  lacs  du  Canada,  nous  vinmes  a  Pittsbourg,  au  confluent  du 
Kentucky  et  de  l'Ohio;  la  le  paysage  deploie  une  pompe  extraordinaire. — 
M.  d'O.-T.,  I,  p.  400. 


n-M.  d'O.-T.,  I,  p.  351. 


294  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 

Vient  alors  une  description  tres  sommaire  des  affluents  de 
l'Ohio  qui  se  termine  ainsi: 

Du  reste  j  'etais  si  charme  de  mes  courses,  que  je  ne  pensais  presque 
plus  au  pole.  Une  compagnie  de  traflquants,  venant  de  chez  les  Creeks, 
dans  les  Florides,  me  permit  de  les  suivre. 

Nous  nous  acheminames  vers  les  pays  connus  alors  sous  le  nom  gen- 
eral des  Florides,  et  ou  s'etendent  aujourdhui  les  Etats  de  1 'Alabama,  de 
la  Georgie,  de  la  Caroline  du  Sud,  du  Tennessee.  Nous  suivions  a  peu 
pres  des  senders  que  lie  maintenant  la  grande  route  des  Natchez  a  Nash- 
ville, par  Jackson  et  Florence,  et  qui  rentre  en  Virginie  par  Knoxville  et 
Salem:  pays  dans  ce  temps  peu  frequente  et  dont  cependant  Bartram 
avait  explore  les  lacs  et  les  sites.  Les  planteurs  de  la  Georgie  et.  des 
Florides  maritimes  venaient  jusque  chez  les  diverses  tribus  des  Creeks 
acheter  des  chevaux  et  des  bestiaux  demi-sauvages,  multiplies  a.  1  'infini 
dans  les  savanes  que  percent  ces  puits,  au  bord  desquels  j  'ai  fait  reposer 
Atala  et  Chactas.     lis  etendaient  meme  leurs  courses  jusqu'a  l'Ohio. 

Nous  etions  pousses  par  un  vent  frais.  L'Ohio,  grossi  de  cent 
rivieres,  tantot  allait  se  perdre  dans  des  lacs  qui  s'ouvraient  devant  nous, 
tantot  dans  les  bois.— N.  d'O.-T.,  I,  p.  402. 


Une  page  tiree  du  manuscrit  de  la  Bibliotheque  Nationale  et 
publiee  par  M.  Bedier,  contient  quelques  indications  qui  ne  se 
trouvent  pas  dans  la  version  imprimee.    La  voici : 

Je  m'associe  a  des  planteurs  dont  les  families  sont  etablies  a  Saint- 
Louis  des  Illinois,  et  je  m'achemine  avec  eux.  A  la  sixieme  journee  de 
marche,  ils  se  querellent.  Divises  en  trois  bandes,  chaque  bande  prend 
une  route  diverse;  je  demeure  avec  celle  qui  descend  vers  l'Ohio  dont  la 
peregrination  me  semble  plus  conforme  au  plan   de  mon  voyage. 

Ici  le  manuscrit  original  de  mes  voyages  n  'offre  plus  qu  'une  masse 
informe  de  feuilles  volantes,  melees,  dechirees,  rongees  par  l'humidite, 
sans  ordre,  sans  suite,  souvent  illisibles.  On  y  trouve  des  descriptions  de 
la  nature;  des  fragments  d'un  journal  sans  date,  ou  n 'en  ayant  pas 
d  'autre  que  celle  des  heures,  des  notes  sur  la  botanique  evidemment 
destinees  a,  M.  de  Malesherbes. 

Nous  partimes  de  la  cote  du  lac  Erie,  ou  1  'on  voit  aujourd  'hui  la  bour- 
gade  Erie  marquee  sur  -la  carte,  et  d  'ou  1  'on  peut  descendre  par  Mercer 
a  Pittsbourg  ou  gagner  a,  l'ouest  Columbus  et  Chillicothe  non  loin  du 
canal  actuellement  creuse  pour  remonter  les  rapides  de  l'Ohio.  Tout  ce 
pays  etait  alors  si  inexplore,  et  mon  itineraire  si  vague,  qu'il  n'y  faut 
chercher  que  ce  qu'on  y  trouve,  des  tableaux  a  peine  esquisses.  Je 
transcris  ici  quelques  uns  de  ces  fragments.3 


3  Bedier,  p.  151. 


1915]  Chinard:    Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  293 

C'est  pendant  qu'il  navigue  sur  un  fleuve  inconnu.  dans  une 
partie  de  l'Amerique  qui  n'est  pas  autrement  precisee,  qu'il 
rencontre  les  deux  Floridiennes  qui  devaient  lui  servir  de  modele 
l'une  pour  Atala,  l'autre  pour  Celuta.  A  sa  .droite  cependant 
etaient  des  mines  appartenant  aux  grandes  fortifications  trouvees 
sur  l'Ohio,  a  sa  g-auche  un  ancien  camp  de  sauvages.4  Mais  le 
paysage  avec  ses  chenes  "dont  les  rameaux  etendaient  des 
echevaux  de  mousse  blanche,"  et  surtout  avec  le  papayer,  les 
magnolias  et  les  liquidamhars,  est  tres  nettement  un  paysage  qui 
ne  pouvait  se  rencontrer  que  beaucoup  plus  an  sud,  s'il  n'est  pas 
entierement  imaginaire. 

C'est  apres  avoir  ete  abandonne  par  les  demoiselles  sauvages 
qu'il  reprend  sa  route,  sans  autre  explication: 

Nous  repassames  les  montagnes  Bleues,  et  nous  nous  rapprochames 
des  defrichements  europeens  vers  Chillicothe  .  .  .  J'avisai  au  bord  d'un 
ruisseau  une  maison  americaine,  ferme  a  l'un  de  ses  pignons,  moulin  a 
l'autre.  J'entrai  demander  le  vivre  et  le  eouvert,  et  fus  bien  recu 
(M.  d'O.-T.,  I,  pp.  414a415). 

La,  par  un  journal  qui  lui  tombe  sous  la  main,  il  apprend  la 
fuite  du  roi,  decide  de  retourner  en  France,  et  revient  vers  Phila- 
delphia ou  il  s  'embarque.5 

Un  second  fragment  des  Memoires,  cite  par  M.  Bedier.  va 
encore  ici  nous  donner  quelques  indications  complementaires  sur 
l'itineraire  de  Chateaubriand: 

Quand  je  touchai  aux  Natchez  en  1791,  rien  n'etait  encore  regie  dans 
ce  pays:  l'Espagne  possedait  encore  nominativement  la  Louisiane  et  ne 
regnait  effectivement  nulle  part.  Je  ne  savais  plus  de  quel  cote  aller; 
j'etais  assez  tente  de  descendre  jusqu'a  la  Nouvelle-Orleans;  j 'aurais 
voulu  voir  ce  marais  depourvu  d  'arbres,  eouvert  de  gros  joncs  qui  s  'eteud 
dans  le  delta  du  Mississipi;  je  ne  sais  si  j 'aurais  trouve  affreux  ainsi 
qu'on  le  repute,  ce  desert  d'eau  depouille  de  ses  cyprieres  et  qu'on 
aper^oit  du  faite  des  mats  en  voguant  a  la  Nouvelle-Orleans;  je  ne  sais 


*  M.  d'O.-T.,  I,  p.  410.  Je  n'ai  pas  cru  devoir  discuter  ici  1 'episode 
des  deux  Floridiennes.  L'authenticite  en  a  ete  fortement  contestee  par 
M.  A.  Feugere,  "Les  Indiennes  de  Chateaubriand,"  Mercure  de  France, 
15  juillet,  1908.  Le  decor  de  cette  scene  est  evidemment  tres  composite, 
je  ne  le  crois  pas  cependant  entierement  imaginaire.  Je  n'oserais  non 
plus  nier  de  fa§on  absolue  1 'existence  des  deux  Floridiennes,  qui  ne 
semblent  ni  si  ideales  ni  si  vaporeuses  que  vent  bien  le  dire  M.  Feugere. 

5  1.  d'O.-T.,  I,  pp.  416-433. 


296  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 

si  j'aurais  rencontre  ces  nids,  blancs  comme  l'ivoire,  ou  s'embarquent 
une  sorte  d  'alcyons  qui  tendent  une  aile  au  vent  comme  une  voile.  Cet 
en-bas  da  fleuve  ressemble  peu  au  Mississipi  que  j 'ai  decrit;  je  n 'ai  peint 
que  l'en-haut,  oil  j 'avais  passe;  je  n'ai  reproduit  que  le  vieux  fleuve 
dont  La  Salle  et  Charlevoix  nous  ont  laisse  le  tableau  il  y  a  cent  cin- 
quante  ans.  Mais  qu'aurais-je  ete  faire  aux  embouchures  du  Mississipi, 
moi  qui  voulais  cheminer  vers  le  Nord?  D'un  autre  cote  je  reconnus  aux 
Natchez  les  impossibilites  que  m 'avaient  annoncees  M.  Swift  d 'Albany, 
et  tout  ce  qui  me  manquait  pour  attaquer  les  Montagnes  Rocheuses. 
J 'avais  besoin  de  me  rapprocher,  roes  ressources  commenc.aient  a 
s  'epuiser.  Du  reste,  j  'etais  si  charme  de  mes  courses  que  je  ne  pensais 
presque  plus  au  pole:  le  poete  avait  vaincu  le  voyageur.e 

II  resulte  de  ces  citations  que  Chateaubriand  serait  descendu 
jusqu'a  Pittsbourg  avec  des  colons  francais,  se  serait  embarque 
sur  le  fleuve,  a  un  moment  qui  n  'est  pas  determine  se  serait  joint 
a  une  compagnie  de  trafiquants  qui  venait  de  chez  les  Creeks, 
aurait  touche  aux  Natchez,  se  serait  dirige  vers  les  pays  qui  com- 
prennent  aujourd'hui  les  etats  de  1 'Alabama  et  du  Tennessee,  de 
la  Caroline  du  Sud  et  de  la  Georgie;  qu'a  un  moment  quelconque 
il  aurait  re  passe  les  Montagnes  Bleues  et  qu'il  se  serait  dirige 
vers  son  port  d'embarquement  par  une  route  qu'il  n'indique  pas. 
Je  neglige  pour  1 'instant  les  details  de  cet  itineraire  pour  retenir 
settlement  1 'affirmation  formelle  de  Chateaubriand  qu'il  a  visite 
l'en-haut  du  Mississipi  et  qu'il  a  descendu  le  fleuve  jusqu'aux 
Natchez. 

5.  Voyage  en  Amerique 
L 'itineraire  que  permet  de  reconstituer  le  Voyage  est  loin 
d'etre  satisfaisant.  Apres  avoir  indique,  comme  clans  les 
MSmoires,  que  son  Hollandais  l'ayant  quitte  au  Niagara,  il  fit 
un  marche  avec  "des  Canadiens  cle  Niagara,  qui  avaient  une 
partie  de  leur  famille  a  Saint  Louis  des  Illinois,  sur  le  Mississipi," 
Chateaubriand  place  une  longue  description  des  lacs  du  Canada, 
sans  dire  formellement  qu'il  a  vu  par  lui-meme  tout  ce  qu'il 
decrit,  mais  sans  indiquer  non  plus  qu'il  a  puise  ces  renseigne- 
ments  chez  d'autres  vovao-eurs.7     Vient  ensuite  "un  commence- 


Bedier,  p.  153. 
Voyage,  pp.  59-67. 


1915]  Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  297 

ment  de  journal  qui  ne  porte  que  l'indication  des  heures."8  On 
n'y  peut  trouver  aucune  indication  precise,  sinon  qu'a  un  certain 
moment  Chateaubriand  traverse  la  fourche  de  "la  riviere"  et 
suit  la  branche  sud-est,  et  qu 'apres  avoir  ete  force  d'abandonner 
son  canot,  il  rencontre  une  famille  indienne  qui  le  remet  dans  la 
bonne  voie.  Apres  un  court  fragment  sur  les  Apalaches.  il  donne 
une  longue  description  du  cours  de  l'Ohio  et  du  Mississipi9  qui 
se  termine  par  la  note  suivante : 

La  suite  du  manuscrit  contient  la  description  du  pays  des  Natchez  et 
celle  du  cours  du  Mississipi  jusqu  'a  la  Nouvelle-Orleans.  Ces  descrip- 
tions sont  completement  transporters  dans  Atala  et  dans  les  Natchez. 

Immediatement  apres  la  description  de  la  Louisiane,  viennent  dans 
le  manuscrit  quelques  extraits  des  voyages  de  Bartram,  que  j 'avais 
traduits  avec  assez  de  soin.  A  ces  extraits  sont  entremelees  mes  recti- 
fications, mes  observations,  mes  additions,  mes  propres  descriptions,  a 
peu  pres  comme  les  notes  de>  M.  Eamond  a  sa  traduction  du  Voyage  de 
Coxe  en  Suisse.  Mais  dans  mon  travail,  le  tout  est  beaucoup  plus  en- 
chevetre,  de  sorte  qu'il  est  presque  impossible  de  separer  ce  qui  est  de 
moi  de  ce  qui  est  de  Bartram,  ni  souvent  meme  de  le  reconnaitre.io 

Meme  si  nous  n'avions  aucune  raison  de  mettre  en  doute  la 
veracite  de  Chateaubriand,  nous  n'aurions  done  le  droit  de  n'ac- 
corder  qu'une  confiance  tres  moderee  au  chapitre  intitule  De- 
scription de  quelques  sites  dans  I'interieur  des  Florides,  qui  suit 
cette  note.  M.  Bedier  a  demontre  de  facon  irrefutable  que  la 
plus  grande  partie  de  ce  chapitre  vient  en  droite  ligne  de  Bar- 
tram; il  n'y  a  pas  a  revenir  sur  sa  demonstration.  Je  ne  peux 
cependant  admettre  avec  lui  que  Chateaubriand  affirme  etre  alle 
a,  Cuscowilla  et  a  Apalachucla,  la  ville  de  la  paix,  ce  qui  ne  vent 
pas  dire  qu'il  ne  serait  pas  bien  aise  que  Ton  crut  a  la  realite 
de  ce  voyage.  Parlant  du  Voyage,  M.  Martino  a  ecrit:11  "l'his- 
torien  de  Chateaubriand  deniera  a  ce  singulier  document  toute 
valeur  pour  connaitre  la  realite  du  fameux  voyage  en  Amerique;" 


s  Voyage,  pp.  68-77. 
»  Voyage,  pp.  78-101. 
io  Voyage,  p.  101. 

nP.  Martino,  "A  propos  du  Voyage  en  Amerique  de  Chateaubriand, 
Revue  d'histoire  litteraire  de  la  France,  XVI  (1909),  p.  455. 


29S  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 

e'est  en  effet  fort  prudent.  II  n'en  reste  pas  moins  que  nous 
devons  tenir  compte  de  la  description  des  grands  lacs,  de  l'Ohio 
et  du  Mississipi,  puisque  ces  morceaux  se  retrouvent  avee  plus 
ou  moins  de  variantes  et  de  suppressions  dans  les  Memoires  et 
que  jusqu'ici  les  historiens  de  Chateaubriand  n'en  ont  point 
retrouve  l'origine.  Les  quelques  rapprochements  indiques  par 
M.  Dick  sont  douteux  et  n'ont  convaincu  personne,  et  quand 
meme  on  les  accepterait  ils  sont  trop  peu  nombreux  pour  per- 
mettre  de  formuler  une  conclusion  certaine.  La  question  a 
cependant  une  importance  considerable  pour  la  solution  du 
probleme  qui  a  occupe  tant  de  chercheurs.  S'il  est  possible  de 
prouver  que  Chateaubriand  a  puise  tous  les  elements  de  ces 
chapitres  dans  des  ouvrages  publies  avant  Atala,  et  a  plus  forte 
raison  avant  les  3Jemoires  et  le  Voyage,  il  deviendra  a  priori  fort 
probable  qu'il  n'a  jamais  descendu  l'Ohio  et  le  Mississipi,  qu'il 
ne  s'est  meme  pas  a  venture  en  canot  d'ecorce  sur  les  Grands  Lacs, 
et  que  de  la  rive,  il  s'est  borne  a  contempler  le  lac  Erie.  Comme 
en  ces  matieres  les  opinions  personnelles  ne  comptent  pas,  j'ai 
cru  utile  de  mettre  tous  les  textes  sous  les  yeux  du  lecteur.  en 
lui  laissant  le  soin  de  juger.  On  verra  de  cette  facon  quelle  est 
la  proportion  des  passages  dont  je  n'ai  pas  su  retrouver  la  source, 
quelles  sont  les  parties  que  l'on  pent  a  la  rigueur  considerer 
comme  originales,  et  surtout  avec  quelle  conscience  Chateaubriand 
s  'est  documente,  avec  quel  art  il  a  su  transformer  la  matiere  aride 
qu'il  avait  a  sa  disposition. 

Les  ouvrages  dont  s'est  servi  Chateaubriand  sont  les  suivants: 
J.  Carver.  Travels  Through  the  Interior  Parts  of  North  America 
(London,  1778) 12  et  Gilbert  Imlay,  A  Topographical  Description 
of  th<  yVestern  Territory  of  North  America  (London,  1792). 
Mais  des  1  'abord,  il  me  f aut  f  aire  quelques  reserves.  II  s  'en  f aut 
de  beaucoup  que  la  relation  de  Carver  soit  une  oeuvre  originale. 
On  a  prouve  recemment  qu'il  appartenait  a  la  classe  des  Henne- 
pin et  des  Lahontan,  que  ses  aventures  etaient  tres  probablement 


12  Je  me  suis  servi  de  la  traduction  franchise  publiee  a  Paris  en  1784. 
II  est  d  'ailleurs  tres  possible  que  Chateaubriand  ait  consulte  directement 
le  texte  anglais. 


1915]  Chinard:    Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  299 

imaginaires  et  qu'il  a  pille  sans  scrupules  ses  devanciers.13  II 
ne  faut  done  accepter  ces  rapprochements  que  sous  benefice  d'in- 
ventaire,  et  quand  on  lit  "Carver,"  entendre  "Carver  ou  ceux 
qu'il  a  copies."  L 'important  pour  nous  est  de  prouver  que  sur 
certains  points  Chateaubriand  se  sert  d'un  document  ecrit  et 
non  d'un  souvenir  personnel.  II  s'en  faut  egalement  qu'Imlay 
soit  original.  II  a  beau  affirmer  qu'il  a  ete  "a  captain  in  the 
American  Army  during  the  war,  and  Commissioner  for  laying 
out  Lands  in  the  Back  Settlements ; "  il  me  parait  un  voyageur 
des  plus  fantaisistes.  Par  bonheur,  il  est  plus  honnete  que  la 
majorite  de  ses  confreres.  A  la  suite  de  sa  description,  il  a 
imprime  une  serie  de  documents  ou  il  avait  puise  la  plupart  de 
ses  renseignements.  Chateaubriand  me  semble  s'etre  servi  autant 
des  pieces  justificatives  que  de  l'ouvrage  principal.  C'est  ainsi 
qu'il  a  trouve  chez  Imlay  les  pieces  suivantes: 

(1)  Observations  on  the  Works,  the  native  inhabitants  of  the  Western 
Country,  by  Major  Jonathan  Heart.  (2)  Historical  Description  of 
Louisiana  and  West  Florida,  containing  a  great  variety  of  interesting 
particulars,  by  Mr.  Thomas  Hutchins.  (3)  Mr.  Patrick  Kennedy's 
Journal  up  the  Illinois  Eiver.  (4)  The  Discovery,  Settlement,  and  Pres- 
ent State  of  Kentucky,  by  John  Filson.  (5)  The  adventures  of  Colonel 
Daniel  Boon,  formerly  a  hunter. 

L'ouvrage  d 'Imlay  contient  une  table  assez  bien  faite  que 
Chateaubriand  a  consultee  comme  un  dictionnaire,  fondant 
ensemble  les  renseignements  epars  dans  l'ouvrage  du  compilateur 
americain.  Ici  encore  il  se  peut  que  j'aie  attribue  a  Imlay  des 
informations  que  Chateaubriand  a  trouves  ailleurs,  mais  il  me 
semble  bien  que,  cette  fois  au  moins,  nous  nous  trouvions  en 
presence  d'une  source  certaine  et  originelle.14 


is  Sur  ce  point  voir  John  T.  Lee,  ' '  Bibliography  of  Carver 's  Travels, ' ' 
Proceedings  of  the  Historical  Society  of  Wisconsin  (1909),  XLV,  pp.  143- 
183.  Je  serai  meme  beaucoup  plus  affirmatif  que  M.  Lee;  Carver  est  un 
effronte  plagiaire;  ceux  qui  en  douteraient  pourront  encore  consulter  E.  G. 
Bourne,  "The  travels  of  Jonathan  Carver,"  American  Historical  Review, 
XI,  287-302,  Janvier,  1906. 

14  Je  renvoie  a  1 'edition  de  Londres,  1797,  plus  complete  que  les 
editions  precedentes. 


300  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 


IV 


LACS  DU  CANADA1 


Le  trop  plein  des  eaux  du  lac 
Erie  se  decharge  dans  le  lac  On- 
tario, apres  avoir  forme  la  cat- 
aracte  de  Niagara.  Les  Indiens 
trouvaient  autour  du  lac  Ontario 
le  baume  blanc  dans  le  baumier,  le 
sucre  dans  l'erable,  le  noyer  et 
le  merisier,  la  teinture  rouge  dans 
1'ecorce  de  la  perousse,  le  toit  de 
leurs  chaumieres  dans  1'ecorce  du 
bois  blanc;  ils  trouvaient  le 
vinaigre  dans  les  grappes  rouges 
du  vinaigrier,  le  miel  et  le  coton 
dans  les  fleurs  de  1  'asperge 
sauvage,  l'huile  pour  les  cheveux 
dans  le  tournesol,  et  une  panacee 
pour  les  blessures  dans  la  plante 
universelle.  Les  Europeens  ont 
remplace  ces  bienfaits  de  la 
nature  par  les  productions  de 
l'art:  les  Sauvages  ont  disparu. 

Le  lac  Erie  a  plus  de  cent 
lieues  de  circonference.  Les  na- 
tions qui  peuplaient  ses  bords 
turent  exterminees  par  les  Iro- 
quois il  y  a  deux  siecles;  quel- 
ques  hordes  errantes  infesterent 
ensuite  des  lieux  ou  1  'on  n  'osait 
s  'arreter. 

C'est  une  chose  effrayante  que 
de  voir  des  Indiens  s'aventurer 
dans  des  nacelles  d'ecorce  sur  ce 


Le  lac  Erie  a  cent  lieues  de 
longueur  de  1'est  a  l'ouest.  Le 
nom  qu'il  porte  est  celui  d  'une 
nation  de  la  langue  huronne,  qui 
etait  etablie  sur  ses  bords  et  que 
les  Iroquois  ont  completement 
detruite. — Charlevoix,  Journal,  p. 
253.2 


i  Voyage,  pp.  59-67. 

2  Ce  rapprochement  est  indique  par  M.  Bedier,  Etudes  Critiques,  p. 
200.  Si  Chateaubriand  s'est  servi  uniquement  de  Charlevoix  ici,  on 
explique  difficilement  la  faute  de  lecture  ou  de  transcription  qui  lui  fait 
ecrire  "cent  lieues  de  circonference"  au  lieu  de  "cent  lieues  de  lon- 
gueur. ' '  Imlay  donne  au  lac  ' '  pres  de  300  milles  de  circonference ' '  ce 
qui  se  rapproche  sensiblement  des  dimensions  indiquees  par  Chateau- 
briand (Imlay,  p.  60).  II  se  peut  que  Chateaubriand  ait  combine  deux 
donnees  provenant  de  sources  differentes. 


3  915] 


Chinard:    Chateaubriand  en  Ai 


301 


lac  ou  les  tempetes  sont  ter- 
ribles.  Us  suspendent  leurs  Mani- 
tous  a  la  poupe  des  eanots,  et 
s'elancent  au  milieu  des  tour- 
billons  de  neige,  entre  les  vagues 
soulevees.  Ces  vagues,  de  niveau 
avec  1  'orifice  des  eanots,  ou  les 
surmontant,  semblent  les  aller 
engloutir.  Les  chiens  des  chas- 
seurs, les  pattes  appuyees  sur  le 
bord,  poussent  des  cris  lamenta- 
bles,  tandis  que  leurs  maitres, 
gardant  un  profond  silence,  frap- 
pent  les  flots  en  mesure  avec  leurs 
pagaies.  Les  eanots  s'avancent  a 
la  file:  a  la  proue  du  premier,  se 
tient  debout  un  chef  qui  repete  le 
monosyllable  OAH,  la  premiere 
voyelle  sur  une  note  elevee  et 
courte,  la  seconde  sur  une  note 
sourde  et  longue;  dans  le  dernier 
canot  est  encore  un  chef  debout, 
manceuvrant  une  grande  rame  en 
forme  de  gouvernail.  Les  autres 
guerriers  sont  assis,  les  jambes 
croisees,  au  fond  des  eanots:  a 
travers  le  brouillard,  la  neige  et 
les  vagues,  on  n'apercjoit  que  les 
plumes  dont  la  tete  de  ces  Indiens 
est  ornee,  le  cou  allonge  des  dogues 
hurlant,  et  les  epaules  des  deux 
Sachems,  pilote  et  augure:  on 
dirait  des  dieux  de  ces  eaux. 

Le  lac  Erie  est  encore  fameux 
par  ses  serpents.  A  l'ouest  de  ce 
lac,  depuis  les  iles  aux  Couleuvres 
jusqu'aux  rivages  du  continent, 
dans  un  espace  de  plus  de  vingt 
milles,  s'etendent  de  larges  nenu- 
fars:  en  ete  les  feuilles  de  ces 
plantes  sont  couvertes  de  serpents 
entrelaces  les  uns  aux  autres. 
Lorsque  les  reptiles  viennent  a  se 
mouvoir  au  rayon  du  soleil,  on 
voit  rouler  leurs  anneaux  d  'azur, 
de  pourpre,  d'or  et  d'ebene;  on  ne 


La  maniere  usitee  dans  les 
rangs,  pour  marquer  son  consente- 
ment,  est  de  pousser  une  sorte 
d  'aspiration  forcee  qui  sonne  a 
peu-pres  comme  ces  lettres  OAH. 
— Carver,  p.  189. 


On  rencontre  vers  son  ex- 
tremite  Ouest  plusieurs  isles,  qui 
sont  remarquables  en  ce  qu  'elles 
sont  infestees  de  serpens  a,  son- 
nettes.  .  .  .  Le  lac  est  couvert, 
pres  du  bord  des  isles  ci-dessus, 
de  beaucoup  de  nenuphar,  dont  les 
feuilles  reposent  sur  l'eau  si  ser- 
rees,  qu  'elles  couvrent  des  acres 
entieres.  Sur  chacune  de  ces 
feuilles,  je  vis  avec  etonnement 
&  horreur,  lorsque  je  traversal 
cette  partie  du   lac,   des   paquets 


302 


University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 


distingue  dans  ces  horribles 
noeuds  doublement,  triplement 
formes,  que  des  yeux  etincelants, 
des  langues  a  triple  dard,  des 
queues  armees  d  'aiguillons  ou  de 
sonnettes,  qui  s'agitent  en  l'air 
comme  des  fouets.  Un  sifflement 
eontinuel,  un  bruit  semblable  au 
froissement  des  feuilles  mortes 
dans  une  foret,  sortent  de  cet 
impur  Cocyte. 

Le  detroit  qui  ouvre  le  pass- 
age du  lac  Huron  au  lac  Erie  tire 
sa  renommee  de  ses  ombrages  et 
de  ses  prairies.  Le  lac  Huron 
abonde  en  poissons;  on  y  peche 
l'artikamegue  et  des  truites  qui 
pesent  deux  cents  livres.  L'ile 
Matimoulin  etait  fameuse;  elle 
renfermait  le  reste  de  la  nation 
des  Ontawais,  que  les  Indiens 
faisaient  descendre  du  grand  Cas- 
tor. On  a  remarque  que  l'eau  du 
lac  Huron,  ainsi  que  celle  du  lac 
Michigan,  croit  pendant  sept 
mois,  et  diminue  dans  la  meine 
proportion  pendant  sept  autres. 
Tous  ces  lacs  ont  un  flux  et  reflux 
plus  ou  moins  sensibles.3 


Le  lac  superieur  occupe  un 
espace  de  plus  de  4  degres  entre 
le  46e  et  50e  de  latitude  nord,  et 
non  moins  de  8  degres  entre  le  87e 


de  ces  serpens  entrelaces  qui 
s'echauffaient  au  soleil,  &  ils  y 
etaient  par  milliards. — Carver,  p. 
117. 


Les  bords  de  la  riviere  du  De- 
troit sont  couverts  d  'etablisse- 
ments  qui  s  'etendent  a  plus  de 
vingt  milles,  d'un  cote  et  de 
1  'autre  le  pays  est  tres  fertile.  II 
y  a  aussi  de  beaux  paturages. 

Au  nord  est  une  isle  remar- 
quable  .  .  .  elle  est  conuue  sous 
le  nom  de  Manataulin,  ce  qui 
signifie  I'Isle  des  Esprits  ...  — 
Carver,  p.  100. 

On  observe  que  les  eaux  s'ele- 
vent  graduellement  jusqu'a  la 
hauteur  de  trois  pieds.  Cela  s'ac- 
complit  dans  une  periode  de  sept 
ans  et  demi;  &  dans  le  meme  in- 
tervalle  de  temps,  1  'eau  baisse  par 
degres  insensibles  jusqu'a  sa 
premiere  hauteur:  en  sorte  que, 
dans  quinze  ans  elle  accomplit 
cette  etrange  revolution. — Carver, 
p.  102. 

D'apres  les  meilleures  obser- 
vations que  j  'ai  pu  f  aire,  il  est 
entre  les  46  &  50  degres  de  lati- 
tude  Nord,   &   entre   les   84   &  93 


3  Dans  ce  paragraphe  Chateaubriand  a  combine  des  renseignements 
empruntes  a  Carver  avec  d 'autres  qui  proviennent  de  Charlevoix.  Voici 
les  passages  de  Charlevoix  que  M.  Bedier  rapproche  du  texte  de  Chateau- 
briand: "Les  poissons  les  plus  communs  dans  les  trois  lacs  sont  .  .  . 
1  'astikamegue,  et  surtout  la  truite.  II  y  en  a  d  'une  grosseur  mon- 
strueuse  .  .  .  Les  Ontaouais,  qui  se  sont  retires  dans  les  iles  du  lac 
Michigan,  y  sement  du  mais.  Les  Amikoues  faisaient  autrefois  demeure 
dans  ces  iles;  cette  nation  est  aujourdhui  reduite  a  un  tres  petit  nombre 
de  families,  qui  ont  passe  dans  l'ile  Manitoualin,  au  nord  du  lac  Huron; 
elle  est  pourtant  une  des  plus  nobles  du  Canada,  suivant  les  Sauvages, 
qui  la  croient  descendue  du  grand  Castor"  (Charlevoix,  Journal,  p.  282; 
Bedier,  p.  200). 


1915] 


Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique 


et  le  95e  de  longitude  ouest, 
meridien  de  Paris;  c 'est  a  dire 
que  cette  mer  interieure  a  cent 
lieues  de  large  et  environ  deux 
cents  de  long,  donnant  une  cir- 
conference  d'a  peu  pres  six  cent 
lieues. 

Quarante  rivieres  reunissent 
leurs  eaux  dans  cet  immense  bas- 
sin;  deux  d'entre  elles,  1 'Allini- 
pigon  et  le  Michipicroton,  sont 
deux  fleuves  considerables;  le 
dernier  prend  sa  source  dans  les 
environs  de  la  baie  d 'Hudson.4 


Des  iles  ornent  le  lac,  entre 
autres  1  'ile  Maurepas  sur  la  cote 
septentrionale,  1  'ile  Pontchartrain 
sur  la  rive  orientale;  1  'ile  Minong 
vers  la  partie  meridionale,  et  1  'ile 
du  Grand-Esprit,  on  des  Ames,  a 
1 'Occident:  celle-ci  pourrait  for- 
mer le  territoire  d  'un  etat  en 
Europe;  elle  mesure  trente-cinq 
lieues  de  long  et  vingt  de  large. 

Les  caps  remarquables  sont: 
la  pointe  Kioucouman,  espece 
d  'isthme  s  'allongeant  de  deux 
lieues  dans  les  riots;  le  cap  Mina- 
beaujou,  semblable  a  un  phare; 
le  cap  du  Tonnerre,  pres  de  l'anse 
du  meme  nom,  et  le  cap  Eoehede- 
bout,  qui  s  'eleve  perpendiculaire- 
ment  sur  les  greves  comme  un 
obelisque  brise. 


degres  de  longitude  Ouest,  comptee 
depuis  le  meridien  de  Londres. 
...  On  peut  l'appeler  la  mer 
Caspienne  de  1  'Amerique. — Car- 
ver, pp.  90,  91,  92. 


Le  lac  Superieur  rec,oit  pres  de 
quarante  rivieres,  dont  quelques- 
unes  sont  considerables  (Carver, 
p.  95).  Deux  grandes  rivieres  se 
dechargent  dans  le  lac  Superieur 
au  Nord  &  au  Nord-Est;  1 'une  est 
le  Nipegon,  appelee  par  les  Fran- 
gais  Allanipegon  .  .  .  l'autre  est 
appelee  la  riviere  de  Michipicou- 
ton.  Sa  source  est  pres  de  la 
baye  de  James. — Carver,  p.  94. 

II  y  a  dans  ce  lac  un  grand 
nombre  d 'isles  .  .  .  elles  suf- 
firaient  chacune  a  l'etablissement 
d'une  grande  province,  surtout 
l'ile  Royale  qui  a  environ  100 
milles  de  long  sur  40  milles  de 
large.  Les  Indiens  depuis  un 
temps  immemorial  sont  dans  la 
persuasion  qu 'elles  sont  la  resi- 
dence du  Grand  Esprit. — Carver, 
p.  92. 


4  A  titre  de  renseignement  voici  le  passage  de  Mackensie  que  M.  Dick 
rapproche  du  texte  de  Chateaubriand:  "On  peut  appeler  ce  lac  le  grand 
reservoir,  de  la  riviere  Saint  Laurent,  car  il  n  'y  a  point  de  grandes 
rivieres  qui  s'y  dechargent.  Les  principales  d'entre  elles  sont  le  St. 
Louis,  le  Nipigon,  le  Pic  et  le  Michipicoten"  (Dick,  p.  33).  Outre  que 
Mackensie  ne  parle  pas  des  quarante  rivieres,  son  texte  dit  exactement  le 
contraire  de  celui  de  -Chateaubriand,  et  les  noms  tels  que  Carver  les 
donne  sont  plus  rapproches  par  l'orthographe  de  ceux  que  nous  trouvons 
dans  le  Voyage. 


304 


Univt  rsity  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 


Le  rivage  meridional  du  lac 
superieur  est  bas,  sablonneux, 
sans  abri;  les  cotes  septentrion- 
ales  et  orientales  sont  au  con- 
traire  montagneuses,  et  presentent 
une  succession  de  rochers  tailles 
a  pic.  Le  lac  lui-meme  est 
creuse  dans  le  roc.  A  travers  son 
onde  verte  et  transparente,  l'oeil 
decouvre  a  plus  de  trente  et 
quarante  pieds  de  profondeur  des 
masses  de  granit  de  differentes 
formes,  et  dont  quelques-unes 
paraissent  comme  nouvellement 
sciees  par  la  main  de  l'ouvrier. 
Lorsque  le  voyageur,  laissant 
deriver  son  canot,  regarde,  penehe 
sur  le  bord,  la  crete  de  ces  mon- 
tagnes  sous-marines,  il  ne  peut 
jouir  longtemps  de  ce  spectacle; 
ses  yeux  se  troublent,  et  il 
eprouve  des  vertiges. 


Frappee  de  l'etendue  de  ce 
reservoir  des  eaux,  1 'imagination 
s'accroit  avec  l'espace:  selon  1 'in- 
stinct commun  de  tous  les  hommes, 
les  Indiens  ont  attribue  la  forma- 
tion de  cet  immense  bassin  a  la 
meme  puissance  qui  arrondit  la 
voute  du  firmament;  ils  ont  ajoute 
a  1 'admiration  qu  'inspire  la  vue 
du  Lac  Superieur,  la  solennite  des 
idees  religieuses. 

Ces  Sauvages  ont  ete  en- 
traines  a  faire  de  ce  lac  l'objet 
principal  de  leur  culte,  par  l'air 
de  mystere  que  la  nature  s'est  plu 
a  attacher  a  l'un  de  ses  grands 
ouvrages.  Le  Lac  Superieur  a 
un  flux  et  un  reflux  irreguliers: 
ses  eaux,  dans  les  plus  grandes 
chaleurs  de  1 'ete,  sont  froides 
comme   la   neige,   a   un   demi-pied 


Je  cotoyai  pendant  environ 
douze  cents  milles  les  bords  Nord 
et  Est,  et  j  'observai  que  la  plus 
grande  partie  de  cette  etendue 
etait  bordee  par  des  rochers 
eleves  et  un  pays  fort  inegal. 
L'eau  parait  en  general,  reposer 
sur  un  fond  de  roche.  Quand  elle 
etait  calme,  et  que  le  soleil  bril- 
lait,  je  pouvais,  assis  dans  mon 
canot,  et  dans  les  lieux  ou  il  y 
avait  six  brasses  de  profondeur, 
voir  clairement  au  fond  d  'enormes 
colonnes  de  pierres  de  differentes 
formes,  qui  avaient  l'apparence 
de  pierres  taillees.  L'eau  etait 
alors  aussi  limpide  que  l'air,  et 
l'on  eiit  dit  que  mon  canot  etait 
suspendu  dans  cet  element.  II  ne 
m 'etait  pas  possible  de  regarder 
a  travers  ce  milieu  transparent 
les  rochers  du  fond,  sans  me  sentir 
apres  quelques  minutes,  la  tete 
tourner,  et  les  yeux  incapables  de 
soutenir  plus  longtemps  cette 
scene  eblouissante. — Carver,  p.  91. 


Quoique  nous  fussions  au  mois 
de  Juillet  ...  en  descendant  un 
vase  a  une  brasse  environ  de  pro- 
fondeur, l'eau  qu'on  retirait  par 
ce  moven  etait  si  froide,  qu'en  la 


1915] 


Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique 


30r, 


au  dessous  de  leur  surface;  ces 
memes  eaux  gelent  rarement  dans 
les  hivers  rigoureux  de  ces 
climats,  alors  meme  que  la  mer 
est  gelee. 

Les  productions  de  la  terre 
autour  du  lac  varient  suivant  les 
differents  sols:  sur  la  cote  orien- 
tale  on  ne  voit  que  des  forets 
d'erables  rachitiques  et  dejetes 
qui  croissent  presque  horizontale- 
ment  dans  du  sable;  au  nord, 
partout  ou  le  roc  vif  laisse  a  la 
vegetation  quelque  gorge,  quelque 
revers  de  vallee,  on  apenjoit  des 
buissons  de  groseillers  sans  epines 
et  des  guirlandes  d'une  espece  de 
vigne  qui  porte  un  fruit  semblable 
a.  la  framboise,  mais  d'un  rose 
plus  pale.  £a  et  la  s'elevent  des 
pins   isoles.s 


Parmi  de  grand  nombre  de 
sites  que  presentent  ces  solitudes, 
deux  se  font  particulierement  re- 
marquer. 

En  entrant  dans  le  Lac 
Superieur  par  le  detroit  de 
Sainte-Marie,  on  voit  a  gauche 
des  iles  qui  se  courbent  en  demi- 
cercle,  et  qui,  toutes  plantees 
d 'arbres  a  fleurs,  ressemblent  a 
des  bouquets  dont  le  pied  trempe 
dans  l'eau;   a  droite,  les  caps  du 


portant  a  la  bouche  elle  y  excitait 
la  meme  sensation  qu  'un  glagon. 
— Carver,  p.  91. 


Le  pays  qui  est  au  Nord  et  au 
Nord-Est  du  lac  est  tres  mon- 
tagneux  et  fort  sterile  .  .  .  on  ne 
trouve  que  peu  de  fruits  sur  ses 
bords.  II  y  en  a  cependant  quel- 
ques  especes  qu  'y  s  'y  trouvent  en 
abondance;  telles  sont  des  fram- 
boises  d'une  grosseur  extraordi- 
naire et  d'une  excellente  saveur, 
qui  croissent  sur  les  montagnes 
voisines  du  lac  en  tres  grande 
quantite,  ainsi  que  les  groseilles 
noires  et  rouges;  mais  le  fruit  qui 
l'emporte  sur  tous  les  autres  est 
une  baye  particuliere  ressemblant 
a  la  framboise,  quant  a,  la  maniere 
de  croitre;  mais  beaucoup  plus 
grosse  et  d'un  rouge  plus  leger. 
II  croit  sur  un  arbrisseau  dont  la 
feuile  ressemble  beaucoup  a,  celle 
de  la  vigne. — Carver,  p.  93. 


Divers  voyageurs  ont  observe 
que  1 'entree  du  lac  Superieur,  au 
sortir  du  detroit,  presente  le  plus 
agreable  aspect  de  l'univers.  Le 
lieu  d'ou  l'on  jouit  le  mieux  de 
cet  aspect,  est  precisement  a. 
l'ouverture  du  lac;  d'ou  l'on 
aper^oit    a,    la    gauche    plusieurs 


s  Voici  le  texte  de  Mackensie  rapproche  par  M.  Dick  de  ce  passage: 
"Le  feu  semble  y  avoir  passe  et  les  arbres  chetifs  qui  y  croissaient  jadis 
se  voient  couches  sur  la  surface;  mais  il  est  difficile  de  comprendre  com- 
ment rien  puisse  y  croitre;  car  le  sol  semble  manquer  presque  entiere- 
ment.  Parmi  les  arbres  tombes  il  y  a  des  ronces,  des  myrtilles,  des 
groseillers,  des  framboisiers,  etc.,  qui  invitent  les  ours"  (Dick,  p.  33). 
Comme  c  'est  la  un  des  passages  sur  lesquels  M.  Dick  se  f  onde  pour 
affirmer  que  Chateaubriand  s'est  servi  de  Mackensie  pour  ecrire  son 
tableau  des  Grands  Lacs,  il  est  inutile  d'insister  sur  la  solidite  de  son 
argumentation. 


306 


University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 


continent  s'avancent  dans  les 
vagues;  les  uns  sont  enveloppes 
d'une  pelouse  qui  marie  sa  ver- 
dure au  double  azur  du  ciel  et  de 
l'onde;  les  autres,  composes  d  'un 
sable  rouge  et  blanc,  ressemblent, 
sur  le  fond  du  lac  bleuatre,  a  des 
rayons  d'ouvrage  de  marqueterie. 
Entre  ces  caps  longs  et  nus 
s'entremelent  de  gros  promon- 
toires  revetus  de  bois  qui  se  re- 
petent  invertis  dans  le  cristal  au- 
dessous.  Quelquefois  aussi  les 
arbres  serres  forment  un  epais 
rideau  sur  la  cote;  et  quelquefois 
clair-semes,  ils  bordent  la  terre 
comme  des  avenues;  alors  leurs 
troncs  ecartes  ouvrent  des  points 
d  'optique  miraculeux.  Les  plantes, 
les  rochers,  les  couleurs  diminuent 
de  proportion  ou  changent  de 
teinte  a  mesure  que  le  paysage 
s'eloigne  ou  se  rapproche  de  la 
vue. 

Ces  iles  au  midi  et  ces  promon- 
toires  a  1  'orient  s  'inclinant  par 
1 'Occident  les  uns  vers  les  autres, 
forment  et  embrassent  line  vaste 
rade,  tranquille  quand  l'orage 
bouleverse  les  autres  regions  du 
lac.  La  se  jouent  des  milliers  de 
poissons  et  d'oiseaux  aquatiques: 
le  canard  noir  du  Labrador  se 
perche  sur  la  pointe  d 'un  brisant; 
les  vagues  environnent  ce  soli- 
taire en  deuil  des  festons  de  leur 
blanche  ecume:  des  plongeons 
disparaissent,  se  montrent  de 
nouveau,  disparaissent  encore; 
l'oiseau  des  lacs  plane  a  la  surface 
des  riots,  et  le  martin-pecheur 
agite  rapidement  ses  ailes  d'azur 
pour  fasciner  sa  proie. 

Par  dela  les  iles  et  les  promon- 
toires  enfermant  cette  rade  au 
debouche  du  detroit  Sainte  Marie, 
l'oeil   decouvre  les  plaines   fluides 


charmantes  isles  qui  s'etendent 
considerablement  au-devant  du 
spectateur.  La  droite  presente 
une  agreable  suite  de  pointes  de 
terre  qui  saillent  considerable- 
ment  dans  1  'eau,  et  qui  contri- 
buent,  avec  les  iles  dont  on  vient 
de  parler,  a  rendre  ce  charmant 
bassin  (car  on  peut  lui  donner  ce 
nom)  calme  et  a  1 'abri  des  rav- 
ages de  ces  vents  tempestueux 
qui  troublent  si  frequemment  le 
lac  voisin. — Carver,  p.  99. 


'! 


1915] 


Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique 


307 


et  sans  bornes  du  lac.  Les  sur- 
faces mobiles  de  ces  plaines 
s'elevent  et  se  perdent  graduelle- 
ment  dans  l'etendue:  du  vert 
emeraude,  elles  passent  au  bleu- 
pale,  puis  a  1  'outre-mer,  puis  a 
1 'indigo.  Chaque  teinte  se  fond- 
ant l'une  dans  1 'autre,  la  derniere 
se  termine  a  1  'horizon,  oii  elle  se 
joint  au  ciel  par  une  barre  d'uu 
sombre  azur. 

,  Ce  site,  sur  le  lac  meme,  est 
proprement  un  site  d'ete;  il  fant 
en  jouir  lorsque  la  nature  est 
calme  et  riante:  le  second  pay- 
sage  est  au  contraire  un  pay  sage 
d'hiver;  il  demande  une  saison 
orageuse  et  depouillee. 

Pres  de  la  riviere  Allinipigon, 
s'eleve  une  roche  enorme  et  isolee 
qui  domine  le  lac.  A  1  'Occident, 
se  deploie  une  chaine  de  rochers, 
les  uns  couches,  les  autres  plantes 
dans  le  sol,  ceux-ci  penjant  l'air 
de  leurs  pics  arides,  ceux-la,  de 
leurs  sommets  arrondis;  leurs 
flancs  verts,  rouges  et  noirs,  re- 
tiennent  la  neige  dans  leurs 
crevasses,  et  melent  ainsi  1  'albatre 
a  la  couleur  des  granits  et  des 
porphyres. 

La  croissent  quelques-uns  de 
ces  arbres  de  forme  pyramidale 
que  la  nature  entremele  a  ses 
grandes  mines,  comme  les  col- 
onnes  d'un  de  ses  edifices  debout 
ou  tombes:  le  pin  se  dresse  sur 
les  plinthes  des  rochers,  et  des 
herbes  herissees  de  gla^ons  pend- 
ent tristement  de  leurs  corniches; 
on  croirait  voir  les  debris  d'une 
cite  dans  les  deserts  de  l'Asie: 
pompeux  monuments,  qui,  avant 
leur  chute,  dominaient  les  bois,  et 
qui  portent  maintenant  des  forets 
sur  leur  combles  ecroules. 


Non  loin  du  Nipegon  est  une 
petite  riviere  qui  en  entrant  dans 
le  lac,  eprouve  une  chute  perpen- 
diculaire  de  six  cents  pieds  de 
hauteur. — Carver,  p.  95. 


308 


University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol. 


Derriere  la  chaine  de  rochers 
que  je  viens  de  decrire,  se  creuse, 
comme  un  sillon,  une  etroite 
vallee:  la  riviere  du  Tombeau 
passe  au  milieu.  Cette  vallee 
n'offre  en  ete  qu'une  mousse 
flasque  et  jaune;  des  rayons  de 
fongus,  au  ehapeau  de  diverses 
eouleurs,  dessinent  les  interstices 
des  rochers.  En  hiver,  dans  cette 
solitude  remplie  de  neige,  le 
chasseur  ne  peut  decouvrir  les 
oiseaux  ou  les  quadrupedes  peints 
de  la  blancheur  des  frimas,  que 
par  les  bees  colores  des  premiers, 
les  museaux  noirs  et  les  yeux 
sanglants  des  seconds.  Au  bout 
de  la  vallee  et  loin  par-dela,  on 
aper^oit  la  cime  des  montagnes 
hyperboreennes,  ou  Dieu  a  place 
la  source  des  quatre  plus  grands 
fleuves  de  l'Amerique  septen- 
trionale.  Nes  dans  le  meme  ber- 
ceau,  ils  vont,  apres  un  cours  de 
douze  cents  lieues,  se  meler  aux 
quatre  points  de  1 'horizon,  a, 
quatre  oceans:  le  Mississipi  se 
perd,  au  midi,  dans  le  golfe  Mexi- 
cain;  le  Saint-Laurent  se  jette, 
au  levant,  dans  l'Atlantique; 
l'Ontawais  se  precipite,  au  nord, 
dans  les  mers  du  Pole;  et  le 
fleuve  de  l'Ouest  porte,  au  cou- 
chant,  le  tribut  de  ses  ondes  a 
1 'ocean  de  Nontouka. 


C'etait  la  geographie  erronee 
du  temps:  elle  n'est  plus  la  meme 
aujourd  'hui. — Note  de  Cliateau- 
briand. 


Les  quatre  principaux  fleuves 
de  1  'Amerique  Septentrionale, 
sgavoir,  le  fleuve  Saint-Laurent, 
le  Mississipi,  la  riviere  Bourbon, 
&  1  'Oregon  ou  la  riviere  de 
1  'Ouest,  prennent  leurs  sources 
dans  un  petit  espace  de  terrain 
assez  circonscrit.  Celles  des 
premieres  ne  sont  pas  a  trente 
milles  les  unes  des  autres;  celles 
de  la  derniere  toutefois  est  un 
pen  plus  eloignee  dans  l'Ouest. 
On  doit  en  conclure  que  cette 
partie  de  l'Amerique  Septen- 
trionale est  la  plus  elevee  de  ce 
continent.  Mais  ce  qui  n'a  peut- 
etre  pas  d'exemple  dans  aucune 
autre  partie  du  monde,  e'est  que 
quatre  rivieres  de  cette  grandeur 
aient  leur  source  a  si  peu  de  dis- 
tance, &  que  chacune  prenant  un 
cours  different  tombe  dans  une 
mer  differente,  apres  environ  deux 
milles  de  cours.  Car,  du  lieu  de 
leurs  sources  a  la  baye  de  Saint- 
Laurent  a  1  Est,  au  golfe  du 
Mexique  au  Sud,  a  la  baye  de 
1  'Hudson  au  Nord,  &  au  detroit 
d  'Anian  ou  a  la  mer  Pacifique  a 


1915] 


Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique 


l'Ouest,  il  y  a  au  moins  la  dis- 
tance enoncee  ci-dessus.6 — Carver, 
p.  48. 


e  Je  ne  donne  encore  ce  passage  qu'a  titre  d 'indication.  Chateau- 
briand et  Carver  ont  probablement  ici  une  source  commune  que  je  n'ai  pas 
su  decouvrir.  On  pourra  egalement  rapprocher  un  passage  analogue 
d'Atala  (Prologue):  "Quatre  grands  fleures,  ayant  leurs  sources  dans  les 
memes  montagnes  divisoient  ces  regions  immenses:  le  fleuve  Saint- 
Laurent,  qui  se  perd  a  l'Est  dans  le  golfe  de  ce  nom;  la  riviere  de  l'Ouest, 
qui  porte  ses  eaux  a  des  mers  inconnues;  le  fleuve  Bourbon,  qui  se 
precipite  du  midi  au  nord  dans  la  baie  d 'Hudson;  et  le  Meschacebe,  qui 
descendant  du  nord  au  midi,  s  'ensevelit  dans  le  golfe  du  Mexique. ' ' 
Chateaubriand  a  visiblement  employe  les  memes  documents  pour  A  tola 
et  pour  le  Voyage.  Voir  G.  Chinard,  "Notes  sur  le  Prologue  d'Atala," 
Modem  Philology,  vol.  XIII,  No.  3,  July,  1915. 


310  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology       [Vol.  4 


OHIO  ET  MISSISSIPI 


Representez-vous  des  restes  de 
fortifications  ou  de  monuments, 
occupant  une  etendue  immense. 
Quatre  especes  d  'ouvrages  s  'y 
font  remarquer:  des  bastions 
carres,  des  lunes,  des  demilunes 
et  des  tumuli.  Les  bastions,  les 
lunes  et  demilunes  sont  reguliers, 
les  fosses  larges  et  profonds,  les 
retranchements  faits  de  terre 
avec  des  parapets  a  plan  incline; 
mais  les  angles  des  glacis  cor- 
respondent a  ceux  des  fosses,  et 
ne  s'inscrivent  pas  comme  le 
parallelogramme  dans  le  poly- 
gone. 

Les  tumuli  sont  des  tombeaux  de 
forme  circulaire.  On  a  ouvert 
quelques-uns  de  ces  tombeaux;  on 
a  trouve  au  fond  un  cercueil 
forme  de  quatre  pierres,  dans 
lequel  il  y  avait  des  ossements 
humains.  Ce  cercueil  etait  sur- 
monte  d'un  autre  cercueil  con- 
tenant  un  autre  squelette,  et  ainsi 
de  suite  jusqu  'au  haut  de  la  pyra- 
mide,  qui  peut  avoir  de  vingt  a 
trente  pieds  d  'elevation. i 


II  me  fut  facile  de  reconnaitre 
que  c 'etait  un  parapet  de  quatre 
pieds  de  haut,  s  'etendant  bien 
d'un  mille  et  propre  a  couvrir 
quatre  a  cinq  mille  homines.  Sa 
forme  est  a  peu  pres  circulaire,  et 
ses  flancs  atteignent  la  riviere. 
.  .  .  On  y  reconnait  encore  les 
angles;  et  cet  ouvrage  paroit 
aussi  regulier  et  aussi  bien  fait 
d  'apres  les  regies  de  1  'art  mili- 
taire,  que  si  Vauban  lui-meme 
eut  preside  a  sa  construction. — 
Carver,  p.  32. 


Near  Lexington  are  to  be  seen 
curious  sepulchres,  full  of  human 
skeletons,  which  are  thus  fabri- 
cated. First  on  the  ground  are 
laid  large  broad  stones;  on  these 
were  placed  the  bodies  separated 
from  each  other  by  broad  stones, 
covered  with  otners,  which  serve 
as  a  basis  for  the  next  arrange- 
ment of  bodies.  In  this  order 
they  are  built,  without  mortar, 
growing  still  narrower  to  the 
height  of  a  man. — Filson  (Imlay, 
p.  324). 


i  Toute  cette  dissertation  se  retrouve  avec  des  modifications  assez 
aombreuses  dans  le  Genie  du  Christianisme.  La  ressemblance  avec  Imlay 
y  apparait  encore  plus  nettement:  "Nous  avons  vu  sur  ces  mines  un 
chene  decrepit  qui  avait  pousse  sur  les  debris  d  'un  autre  chene  tombe  a 
ses  pieds,  et  dont  il  ne  restait  plus  que  l'ecorce;  celui-ci  a  son  tour 
s 'etait  eleve  sur  un  troisieme,  et  ce  troisieme  sur  un  quatrieme  .  .  . 
(Genie  I,  iv,  2,  note  H).  Imlay  avait  vu  le  meme  chene:  "Along  the 
sides  of  the  mound  to  its  highest  point,  have  grown  for  ages  past,  and 
regularly  gone  to  decay,  some  of  the  richest  and  finest  timbers  of  the 
forest,  producing  an  increment  of  vegetable  mould,  nearly  equal  in 
depth  to  that  which  forms  the  whole  surface  of  the  surrounding  country ' ' 
(Imlay,  p.  21,  n.).  Chateaubriand  a  la  fin  de  la  note  du  Genie  indique  du 
reste  Imlay  parmi  ses  autorites. 


1915] 


Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique 


311 


Ces  constructions  ne  peuvent 
etre  l'ouvrage  des  nations  actu- 
elles  de  1 'Amerique;  les  peuples 
qui  les  ont  elevees  devaient  avoir 
une  connaissance  des  arts,  supe- 
rieure  meme  a  celle  des  Mexi- 
cains  et  des  Peruviens. 

Faut-il  attribuer  ces  ouvrages 
aux  Europeans  modernes?  Je  ne 
trouve  que  Ferdinand  de  Soto  qui 
ait  penetre  anciennement  dans  les 
Florides,  et  il  ne  s  'est  jamais 
avance  au-dela  d'un  village  de 
Chicassas  sur  une  des  branches  de 
la  Mobile:  d'ailleurs  avec  une 
poignee  d'Espagnols  comment 
aurait-il  remue  toute  cette  terre, 
et  a  quel  dessein? 

Sont-ce  les  Carthaginois  ou  les 
Pheniciens  qui  jadis  dans  leur 
commerce  autour  de  l'Afrique  et 
aux  iles  Cassiterides,  ont  ete 
pousses  jusqu  'aux  regions  ameri- 
caines?  Mais  avant  de  penetrer 
plus  avant  dans  l'ouest,  ils  ont  du 
s'etablir  sur  les  cotes  de  l'Atlan- 
tique;  pourquoi  alors  ne  trou ve- 
t-on pas  la  moindre  trace  de  leur 
passage  dans  la  Virginie,  les 
Georgies  et  les  Florides?  Ni  les 
Pheniciens  ni  les  Carthaginois 
n  'enterraient  leurs  morts  comme 
sont  enterres  les  morts  des  forti- 
cations  de  l'Ohio.  Les  Egyptiens 
faisaient  quelque  chose  de  sem- 
blable,  mais  les  momies  etaient 
embaumees,  et  celles  des  tombes 
americaines  ne  le  sont  pas;  on  ne 
saurait  dire  que  les  ingredients 
manquaient:  les  gommes,  les 
resines,  les  camphres,  les  sels  sont 
ici  de  toute  part. 


They  were  not  constructed  by 
Ferdinando  de  Soto.  He  was  not 
on  the  continent  a  sufficient  time 
to  construct  even  the  works  at 
Muskingum;  and  from  every  cir- 
cumstance it  appears  that  he  was 
no  farther  north  than  Chattasallai, 
a  Chickasaw  village  on  the  Tom- 
bigbee  branch  of  the  Mobile. — 
J.  Heart   (Imlay,  p.  299). 

The  Carthaginians,  who  had 
many  settlements  on  the  coast  of 
Africa,  beyond  the  streights  of 
Gibraltar  and  pushed  their  dis- 
coveries as  far  as  where  the  two 
continents  in  that  quarter  ap- 
proach each  other  the  nearest, 
may  probably  have  been  thrown 
by  tempests  on  the  American 
coast. — Imlay,  p.   366.2 


-  Pour  toute  cette  partie  voir  aussi  Carver,  pp.  130-155,  ou  se  trouve 
une  longue  dissertation  sur  l'origine  des  Americains.  II  serait  possible 
de  faire  plusieurs  autres  rapprochements  avec  le  texte  de  Chateaubriand, 
mais  Imlay  me  parait  presenter  des  ressemblances  plus  etroites  avec  le 
Voyage. 


312  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology       [Vol.  4 


L'Atlantide  de  Platon  aurait- 
elle  existe?  l'Afrique,  dans  des 
siecles  inconnus,  tenait-elle  a 
1'Amerique?  Quoi  qu  'il  en  soit, 
line  nation  ignoree,  une  nation 
superieure  aux  generations  in- 
diennes  de  ce  moment  a  passe  dans 
ces  deserts.  Quelle  etait  cette 
nation?  Quelle  revolution  l'a 
detruite?  Quand  cet  evenement 
est-il  arrive?  Questions  qui  nous 
jettent  dans  cette  immensite  du 
passe,  ou  les  siecles  s  'abiment 
comme  des  songes. 

Les  ouvrages  dont  je  parle  se 
trouvent  a  1  'embouchure  du  grand 
Miamis,  a  celle  du  Muskingum,  a 
la  crique  du  tombeau  %  et  sur  une 
des  branches  du  Scioto:  ceux  qui 
bordent  cette  riviere  occupent  un 
espace  de  plus  de  deux  heures  de 
marche  en  descendant  vers  1  'Ohio. 
Dans  le  Kentucky,  le  long  du  Ten- 
nesse,  chez  les  Siminoles,  vous  ne 
pouvez  faire  un  pas  sans  aper- 
cevoir  quelques  vestiges  de  ces 
monuments. 


I  have  scarcely  ever  seen  a 
handsome  situation  on  a  high  flat, 
adjoining  any  large  stream,  where 
there  were  not  some  of  the  above 
vestiges  of  antiquity.  Travellers 
on  whose  authority  I  depend,  in- 
form me  that,  on  a  branch  of  the 
Scioto,  called  Paint  creek,  are 
works  much  more  considerable 
than  those  at  Grave  Creek,  or 
Muskingum,  a  mount  much  larger, 
a  greater  variety  of  walls,  ditches, 
and  enclosures,  and  covering  a 
much  greater  extent  of  country; 
that  they  continue  for  nearly  60 
miles  along  the  Scioto,  to  its 
junction  with  the  Ohio.  The  next 
works  of  note  are  on  the  great 
Miami,  about  20  miles  from  its 
junction  with  the  Ohio. — Imlay,  p. 
298. 

The  Chickasaws  say  they  came 
from  where  the  sun  sets  in  the 
water,  and  that  they  were  seven 
years  on  the  way,  marching  only 
one  moon  in  a  year,  remaining  the 
other  part  of  the  time  at  the  same 
camp,     preparing     for     the     next 

3  La  traduction  de  Grave  creefc  devrait  etre  ' '  riviere  du  Tombeau ' '  et 
non  "crique  du  tombeau."  Ce  contre-sens  est  constant  chez  Chateau- 
briand dans  le  Voyage  et  semble  bien  indiquer  d  'une  part  qu  'il  n  'a  pas 
vu  les  endroits  dont  il  parle,  et  d 'autre  part  qu'il  se  sert  d'un  texte 
anglais  dont  il  ne  comprend  pas  toujours  le  sens  exact.     Cf.  p.  323. 


Les  Indiens  s'accordent  a  dire 
que  quand  leurs  peres  vinrent  de 
l'ouest,  ils  trouverent  les  ouvrages 
de  1  'Ohio  tels  qu  'on  les  voit 
aujourd  'hui.  Mais  la  date  de  cette 
migration  des  Indiens  d 'Occident 
en  Orient  varie  selon  les  nations. 


1915] 


Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique 


313 


Les  Chicassas,  par  exemple,  ar- 
riverent  dans  les  forets  qui  cou- 
vrent  les  fortifications  il  n  'y  a 
guere  plus  de  deux  siecles:  ils 
mirent  sept  ans  a  accomplir  leur 
voyage,  ne  marchant  qu  'une  fois 
chaque  annee,  et  emmenant  les 
chevaux  derobes  aux  Espagnols 
devant  lesquels  ils  se  retiraient. 
Une  autre  tradition  veut  que  les 
ouvrages  de  1  'Ohio  aient  ete 
eleves  par  les  Indiens  blancs.  Ces 
Indiens  blancs,  selon  les  Indiens 
rouges,  devaient  etre  venus  de 
l'Orient;  et  lorsqu'ils  quitterent 
le  lac  sans  rivages  (la  mer),  ils 
etaient  vetus  comme  les  chairs 
blanches   d  'aujourd  'hui. 

Sur  cette  faible  tradition,  on 
a  raconte  que  vers  l'an  1170, 
Ogan,  prince  du  pays  de  Galles, 
ou  son  fils  Madoc,  s'embarqua 
avec  un  grand  nombre  de  ses 
sujets,4  et  qu  'il  aborda  a  des  pays 
inconnus,  vers  1  'Occident.  Mais 
est-il  possible  d  'imaginer  que  les 
descendants  de  ces  Gallois  aient 
pu  construire  les  ouvrages  de 
l'Ohio,  et  qu'en  meme  temps 
ayant  perdu  tous  les  arts,  ils  se 
sfaient  trouves  reduits  a  une 
poignee  de  guerriers  errants  dans 
les  bois  comme  les  autres  Indiens? 

On  a  aussi  pretendu  qu'aux 
sources  du  Missouri,  des  peuples 
nombreux  et  civilises  vivent  dans 
des  enceintes  militaires  pareilles 
a  celle  des  bords  de  l'Ohio;  que 
ces  peuples  se  servent  de  chevaux 
et  d 'autres  animaux  domestiques; 
qu'ils  ont  des  villes,  des  chemins 
publics,  qu'ils  sont  gouvernes  par 
des  rois.s 


year's  march. — J.  Heart  (Imlay, 
p.  302).  They  have  a  fine  breed 
of  horses  brought  originally  by 
the  Indians  from  the  Spanish  set- 
tlements on  the  western  side  of 
the  river  Mississippi. — Th.  Hutch- 
ins  (Imlay,  p.  497). 


In  the  year  1170,  Madoc,  son 
of  Owen  Gwynnedh,  prince  of 
Wales,  dissatisfied  with  the  situa- 
tion of  affairs  at  home,  left  his 
country,  as  related  by  the  welsh 
historians,  in  quest  of  new  settle- 
ments, and  leaving  Ireland  to  the 
north,  proceeded  west  till  he  dis- 
covered a  fertile  country  where, 
leaving  a  colony,  he  returned,  and 
persuading  many  of  his  country- 
men to  join  him,  put  to  sea  with 
10  ships,  and  was  never  heard  of. 
— Imlay,  p.  367. 

The  western  settlers  have  re- 
ceived frequent  accounts  of  a 
nation,  inhabiting  at  a  great  dis- 
tance up  the  Missouri,  in  manners 
and  appearance  resembling  the 
other  Indians,  but  speaking  Welsh, 
and  retaining  some  ceremonies  of 
Christian  worship;  .  .  .  There  are 
several  remains  in  Kentucky 
which    seem    to    prove    that    this 


4  C  'est  une  alteration  des  traditions  islandaises  et  des  poetiques 
histoires  des  Saggas.     Note  de  Chateaubriand. 

'•  Aujourdhui  les  sources  du  Missouri  sont  connues:  on  n'a  rencontre 
dans  ces  regions  que  des  Sauvages.     II  faut  pareillement  releguer  parmi 


314  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology       [Vol.  4 


La  tradition  religieuse  des  In- 
diens  sur  les  monuments  de  leurs 
deserts  n  'est  pas  conforme  a  leur 
tradition  historique.  II  y  a, 
disent-ils,  an  milieu  de  ces 
ouvrages  une  caverne;  cette 
caverne  est  celle  du  Grand-Espnt. 
Le  Grand-Esprit  crea  les  Chicassas 
dans  cette  caverne.  Le  pays 
etait  alors  couvert  d'eau,  ce  que 
voyant  le  Grand-Esprit,  il  batit 
des  murs  de  terre  pour  mettre 
secher  dessus  les  Chicassas. 

Passons  a  la  description  du 
cours  de  l'Ohio.  L'Ohio  est 
forme  par  la  reunion  de  la  Monon- 
gahela  et  de  1 'Alleghany:  la 
premiere  riviere  prenant  sa  source 
au  sud,  dans  les  Montagues 
Bleues  ou  les  Apalaches,  la  se- 
conde,  dans  une  autre  chaine  de 
ces  montagnes  au  nord,  entre  le 
lac  Erie  et  le  lac  Ontario:  au 
moyen  d  'un  court  portage  1  'Alle- 


country  was  formerly  inhabited 
by  a  nation  farther  advanced  in 
the  arts  of  life  than  the  Indians. 
These  are  usually  attributed  to 
the  Welsh,  who  are  supposed  to 
have  formerly  inhabited  here;  but 
having  been  expelled  by  the 
natives,  were  forced  to  take 
refuge  near  the  sources  of  the 
Missouri.  It  is  well  known  that 
no  Indian  nation  has  ever  prac- 
ticed the  method  of  defending 
themselves  by  entrenchments;  and 
such  a  work  would  even  be  no 
easy  one,  while  these  nations  were 
unacquainted  with  the  use  of 
iron. — Imlay,  p.  368. 

The  tradition  of  the  Chactaws 
with  respect  to  this  elevation  is 
as  follows:  that  in  the  midst  is  a 
large  cave,  which  is  the  house  of 
the  Great  Spirit;  that  in  that  cave 
he  made  the  Chactaws;  that  the 
country  being  then  under  water, 
the  Great  Spirit  raised  this  wall 
above  water,  to  set  the  Chactaws 
on  to  dry,  after  they  were  made. 
—J.  Heart  (Imlay,  p.  299). 


Fort  Du  Quesne,  situated  at 
the  junction  of  the  Mononge- 
halia  and  Alleghany  rivers,  which 
form   the  Ohio. — Imlay,  p.  5. 

This  whole  country  abounds  in 
coal,  which  lies  almost  upon  the 
surface  of  the  ground:  the  hills 
opposite  Pittsburg,  upon  the  banks 
of  the  Monongehala,  which  are  at 
least  three  hundred  feet  high,  ap- 


les  fables  cette  histoire  d  'un  temple  ou  on  aurait  trouve  une  Bible, 
laquelle  Bible  ne  pouvait  etre  lue  que  par  les  Indiens  blancs,  possesseurs 
du  temple,  et  qui  avaient  perdu  1 'usage  de  1 'ecriture.  Au  reste,  la 
colonisation  des  Busses  au  nord-ouest  de  1  'Amerique  aurait  bien  pu  donner 
naissance  a  ces  bruits  d'un  peuple  blanc  etabli  vers  les  sources  du 
Missouri.     Note  de  Chateaubriand. 


1915] 


CKinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique 


ghany  communique  avec  le  premier 
lac.  Les  deux  rivieres  se  joignent 
au-dessous  du  fort,  jadis  appele  le 
fort  Duquesne,  aujourd  'hui  le  fort 
Pitt,  ou  Pittsbourg.  Leur  con- 
fluent est  au  pied  d'une  haute 
colline  de  charbon  de  terre;  en 
melant  leurs  ondes,  elles  perdent 
leurs  noms,  et  ne  sont  plus  con- 
nues  que  sous  celui  de  l'Ohio,  qui 
signifie,  et  a  bon  droit,  belle 
riviere.^ 

Plus  de  soixante  rivieres  ap- 
portent  leurs  richesses  a  ce  fleuve; 
celles  dont  le  cours  vient  de  Test 
et  du  midi  sortent  des  hauteurs 
qui  divisent  les  eaux  tribataires 
de  1  'Atlantique,  des  eaux  descend- 
antes  a  l'Ohio  et  au  Mississipi; 
celles  qui  naissent  a  l'ouest  et  au 
nord,  decoulent  des  collines  dont 
le  double  versant  nourrit  les  lacs 
du  Canada  et  alimente  le  Missis- 
sipi et  1  'Ohio. 

L'espace  ou  roule  ce  dernier 
fleuve  offre  dans  son  ensemble  un 
large  vallon  borde  de  collines 
d'egales  hauteurs;  mais,  dans  les 
details  a,  mesure  que  Ton  voyage 
avec  les  eaux,  ce  n  'est  plus  cela. 

Eien  de  plus  fecond  que  les 
terres  arrosees  par  l'Ohio:  clles 
produisent  sur  les  coteaux  des 
forets  de  pins  rouges,  des  bois  de 
lauriers,  de  myrtes,  d  'erables  a 
sucre,  de  chenes  de  quatre  especes: 
les  vallees  donnent  le  noyer, 
1 'alizier,  le  frene,  le  tupelo;  les 
marais  portent  le  bouleau,  le 
tremble,  le  peuplier  et  le  cypres 
chauve.  Les  Indiens  font  des 
etoffes  avec  l'ecorce  du  peuplier, 
ils  mangent  la  seconde  ecorce  du 


pear  to  be  one  solid  body  of  this 
mineral. — Imlay,  p.  24. 


The  western  country  is  divided 
from  the  Atlantic  country  by  a 
chain  of  mountains  which  rise  in 
the  remote  parts  of  the  states  of 

New  York  and  New  Jersey 

The  western  country  is  those  parts 
which  are  watered  by  the  streams 
running  into  the  Mississippi. — Im- 
lay, p.  22. 


The  Ohio,  for  the  greater  part 
of  the  way  to  the  Mississippi,  has 
many  meanders,  or  windings,  and 
rising  grounds  upon  both  sides  of 
it.— Hutchins   (Imlay,  p.  488). 

The  borders,  or  meadow  lands, 
and  the  uplands  are  in  common  of 
a  most  fertile  soil. — Hutchins 
(Imlay,  p.  488). 

The  high  and  dry  lands  are 
covered  with  red,  white,  and  black 
oak,  hiccory,  walnut,  red  and 
black  mulberry,  and  ash  trees, 
grape  vines,  etc.  The  low  and 
meadow  lands  are  filled  with  syca- 
more, poplar,  red  and  white  mul- 
berry, cherry,  beech,  elm,  aspin, 
maple,  or  sugar-trees,  grape  vines, 


e  M.  Dick  cite  ici  (p.  30)  un  passage  de  Beltrami  qui  presente  avec  le 
texte  de  Chateaubriand  des  resemblances  marquees.  Beltrami  ne  men- 
tionne  cependant  pas  ' '  la  haute  colline  de  charbon  de  terre. ' '  Chateau- 
briand doit  combiner  ici  des  renseignements  puises  a  differentes  sources. 


316 


University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 


bouleau;  ils  emploient  la  seve  de 
la  bourgene  pour  guerir  la  fievre 
et  ehasser  les  serpents;  le  chene 
leur  fournit  des  fleches,  le  frene 
des  canots. 

Les  herbes  et  les  plantes  sont 
tres  variees,  mais  celles  qui 
eouvrent  toutes  les  campagnes 
sont:  l'herbe  a  bufle,  de  sept  a 
huit  pieds  de  haut,  l'herbe  a  trois 
feuilles,  la  folle  avoine  ou  le  riz 
sauvage,  et  1  'indigo.7 


Sous  un  sol  partout  fertile,  a 
cinq  ou  six  pieds  de  profondeur, 
on  rencontre  generalement  un  lit 
de  pierre  blanche,  base  d'un  ex- 
cellent humus;  cependant,  en  ap- 
prochant  du  Mississipi,  on  trouve 
d  'abord  a  la  surface  du  sol  une 
terre  forte  et  noire,  ensuite  une 
couche  de  craye  de  diverses  cou- 
leurs,  et  puis  des  bois  entiers  de 
cypres  chauves,  engloutis  dans  la 
vase.  Sur  le  bord  du  Chanon,  a 
deux  cents  pieds  au-dessous  de 
1  'eau,  on  pretend  avoir  vu  des 
caracteres  traces  aux  parois 
d'un  precipice:  on  en  a  conclu  que 
l'eau  coulait  jadis  a  ce  niveau,  et 
que  des  nations  inconnues  ecri- 
virent  ces  lettres  mysterieuses  en 
passant  sur  le  fleuve. 


Une  transition  subite  de  tem- 
perature et  de  climat  se  fait  re- 
marquer  sur  l'Ohio:  aux  environs 


etc.,  and  below  or  southwardly  of 
the  rapids,  are  several  large  cedar 
and  cypress  swamps. — -mitchins 
(Imlay,  p.  491). 

We  have  a  variety  of  spon- 
taneous kind  of  grass  .  .  .  the 
buffalo  grass  grows  from  9  to  18 
inches  high. — Imlay,  p.  234.  The 
country  is  immensely  rich,  and 
covered  with  cane,  rye-grass,  and 
the  native  clover.  The  cane 
grows  generally  to  the  height  of 
ten  or  twelve  feet. — Imlay,  p.  29. 

Though  the  champaign  part  of 
this  country  has  no  stone  on  its 
surface,  yet  everywhere  limestone 
is  found  from  6  to  15  feet  below 
it.— Imlay,  p.  136. 


On  the  Frenchbroad  river,  a 
branch  of  the  Tenasee,  are  per- 
pendicular rocks,  on  which  more 
than  100  feet  above  the  present 
high-water,  are  artificial  char- 
acters of  beasts,  birds,  etc.  A 
Mr.  Williams,  a  gentleman  of 
reputation  assured  me,  that  he 
had  been  at  the  place,  and  that  it 
was  absolutely  impossible  that  any 
person  could  get  to  the  spot  on 
any  other  supposition,  than  that 
the  waters  of  the  river  had,  at 
some  time,  flowed  so  much  higher. 
—J.  Heart  (Imlay,  p.  301). 
.  .  .  the  approach  to  the  Lit- 
tle Kanhaway,  where  the  nature 
of  the  soil  seems  reversed,  and  the 


7  Chateaubriand  a  evidemment  confondu  ici  le  ' '  buffalo  grass '  et 
1  'espece  de  roseau  appele  cane.  ' '  Eiz  sauvage ' '  est  probablement  la  tra- 
duction inexacte  de  rye  grass  qui  est  1 'avoine  folle  des  voyageurs 
francais.  Quant  a  "l'herbe  a  trois  feuilles,"  ce  n'est  autre  chose  que 
notre  vulgaire  trefle,  ou  clover. 


1915] 


Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique 


de  Canaway  le  cypres  chauve 
cesse  de  croitre,  et  les  sassafras 
disparaissent;  les  forets  de  chenes 
et  d  'ormeaux  se  multiplient.  Tout 
prend  line  eouleur  differente:  les 
verts  sont  plus  fonces,  leura 
nuances  plus  sombres. 


II  n  *y  a  pour  ainsi  dire  que 
deux  saisons  sur  le  fleuve:  les 
feuilles  tombent  tout  a  coup  en 
novembre;  les  neiges  les  suivent 
de  pres;  le  vent  du  nord-ouest 
commence,  et  l'hiver  regne.  Un 
froid  sec  continue  avec  un  ciel 
pur  jusqu'au  mois  de  mars;  alors 
le  vent  tourne  au  nord-est,  et  en 
moins  de  quinze  jours  les  arbres 
charges  de  givre  apparaissent 
converts  de  fleurs.  L'ete  se  con- 
fond  avec  le  printemps. 


good  land  is  then  found  on  the 
western  side  upon  the  -Muskin- 
gum .  .  .  farther  up  the  country 
is  broken  up  and  sterile,  produc- 
ing scarce  any  other  timber  than 
the  fir-tree,  or  pine,  and  knotty 
black  oaks,  which  are  generally 
deemed  symptoms  of  a  bad  soil  — 
Imlay,  p.  26.8 

Its  seasons  are  summer, 
autumn,  or  what  the  Americans 
more  expressively  call  the  fall, 
and  winter.  The  transition  from 
the  locking  up  of  all  vegetation 
in  winter  to  the  sudden  burst  of 
it  again  into  life  at  the  beginning 
of  the  summer,  excludes  that 
progressive  season  which  in  the 
more  moderate  climate  of  Europe 
we  call  spring.  The  season  begins 
to  break  soon  after  the  fall  of  the 
leaf,  and  temporary  cold  rains 
and  sleets  of  snow  fall  in  Novem- 
ber, the  north-west  winds  begin, 
and  towards  Christinas  winter  in 
all  its  rigour  sets  in;  the  ground 
is  covered  with  snow,  the  frost 
is  settled,  the  sky  becomes  clear 
and  one  continued  expanse  of 
azure,  with  constant  sunshine; 
temporary  blasts  and  storms  are 
at  intervals  exceptions  to  this. 
Towards  April  the  currents  of  the 
air  begin  to  change  to  north,  and 
round  to  north-east,  and  the  sea- 
son of  hazy,  foggy  and  rainy 
squalls  from  the  north-east,  begins 
towards  the  latter  end  of  April 
in  some  parts,  towards  the  be- 
ginning of  May  in  others.  The 
frost  breaks  up,  the  snow  melts, 
and  within  a  week  or  ten  days 
after  the  woods  and  the  orchards 
are  in  the  full  glow  of  bloom. — 
Imlay,  p.  125. 

8  Imlay,    p.    100,    donne    les    memes    renseignements    sur    la    grancle 
Kanhaway. 


318  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology       [Vol.  4 


La  chasse  est  abondante.  Les 
canards  branchus,  les  linottes 
bleues,  les  cardinaux,  les  char- 
donnets  pourpres,  brillent  dans  la 
verdure  des  arbres;  l'oiseau  whet- 
saw  imite  le  bruit  de  la  scie; 
l'oiseau-chat  miaule,  et  les  per- 
roquets  qui  apprennent  quelques 
mots  les  repetent  dans  les  bois.  Un 
grand  nombre  de  ces  oiseaux 
vivent  d'inseetes:  la  chenille 
verte  a  tabac,  le  ver  d'une  espece 
de  murier  blanc,  les  inouckes 
luisantes,  l'araignee  d'eau  leur 
servent  principalement  de  nourri- 
ture;  mais  les  perroquets  se 
reunissent  en  grandes  troupes  et 
devastent  les  champs  ensemences. 
On  accorde  une  prime  pour  chaque 
tete  de  ces  oiseaux:  on  donne  la 
meme  prime  pour  les  tetes  d'ecu- 
reuils. 

I 'Ohio  offre  a  peu  pres  les 
memes  poissons  que  le  Mississipi. 
II  est  assez  commun  d'y  prendre 
des  truites  de  trente  a  trente-cinq 
livres  et  une  espece  d'esturgeon 
dont  la  tete  est  faite  comme  la 
pelle  d  'une  pagaie. 

En  descendant  le  cours  de 
1  'Ohio,  on  passe  une  petite  riviere 
appelee  le  Lie  des  grands  os.  On 
appelle  lie  en  Amerique  des  bancs 
d'une  terre  blanche  un  peu 
glaiseuse,  que  les  buffles  se  plai- 
sent  a  lecher;  ils  y  creusent  avec 
leur  langue  des  sillons.  Les  ex- 
crements de  ces  animaux  sont  si 
impregnes  de  la  terre  du  lie,  qu'ils 
ressemblent  a  des  morceaux  de 
ehaux.  Les  buffles  recherchent 
les  lies  a,  cause  des  sels  qu'ils 
contiennent:     ces    sels    guerissent 


Le  canard  des  bois  auquel  les 
Francais  ont  donne  le  nom  de 
canard  branchu. — Carver,  p.  358. 

Le  Ouetsah,  qu  'on  nomme  ainsi 
a,  cause  de  son  cri  qui  ressemble 
au  bruit  d'une  scie  qu'on  aiguise. 
—Carver,  p.  363. 

Le  Chat-Huant.  —  Carver,  p. 
357. 

La  chenille  du  tabac:  elle  est 
d  'un  beau  verd  de  mer.— Carver, 
p.  378. 

Vers  a  soie. — Carver,  p.  357,  n. 

Scarabee  luisant,  ou  mouche  de 
feu. — Carver,  p.  379. 

Scarabee  aquatique:  a  le  corps 
de  la  grandeur  d'un  pois  et  un 
grand  nombre  de  pieds. — Carver, 
p.  381.9 


[Voir  la  description  de  "cette 
espece  d  'esturgeon  ' '  dans  Carver, 
p.   367].io 

A  salt  spring  is  called  a  Lick, 
from  the  earth  about  them  being 
furrowed  out,  in  the  most  curious 
manner,  by  the  buffalo  and  deer, 
which  lick  the  earth  on  account 
of  the  saline  particles  with  which 
it  is  impregnated. — Imlay,  p.  31. 

La  terre  de  cet  endroit  est  un 
argile  gras  visqueux  et  blanc  ou 
cendre,  que  toutes  especes  de  betes 
a  cornes  lechent  avec  avidite;  les 
habitants  pensent  que  cet  argile 
est   impregne   de  vapeurs   salines; 


o  Voir  aussi  Le  Page  du  Pratz,  Histoire  de  Louisiane,  Paris,  1754,  II, 
144;  II,  147;  III,  349.  II  est  impossible  de  dire  ici  de  quel  ouvrage 
Chateaubriand  s'est  servi;  Carver  copie  evidemment  Le  Page  du  Pratz. 

io  Se  trouve  egalement  dans  Le  Page  du  Pratz,  II,  154. 


1915] 


Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique 


les  animaux  ruminants  des  tran- 
chees  que  leur  cause  la  erudite  des 
herbes.  Cependant  les  terres  de 
la  vallee  de  1  'Ohio  ne  sont  point 
salees  au  gout;  elles  sont  au  eon- 
traire  extremement  insipides. 

Le  lie  de  la  riviere  du  Lie  est 
un  des  plus  grands  que  l'on  con- 
naisse;  les  vastes  chemins  que  les 
buffles  ont  trace  a  travers  les 
herbes  pour  y  aborder,  seraient 
effrayants  si  on  ne  savait  que  ces 
taureaux  sauvages  sont  les  plus 
paisibles  de  toutes  les  creatures. 
On  a  decouvert  dans  ce  lie  une 
partie  du  squelette  d'un  mamouth: 
l'os  de  la  cuisse  pesait  soixante- 
dix  livres;  les  cotes  comptaient 
dans  leur  courbure  sept  pieds,  et 
la  tete  trois  pieds  de  long;  le? 
dents  machelieres  portaient  cinq 
pouces  de  largeur  et  huit  pieds  de 
hauteur,  les  defenses  quatorze 
pouces  de  la  racine  a  la  pointe. 

De  pareilles  dep'uilles  ont  ete 
rencontrees  au  Chili  et  en  Russie. 
Les  Tartares  pretendent  que  le 
mamouth  existe  encore  dans  leur 
pays  a  1 'embouchure  des  rivieres: 
on  assure  aussi  que  des  chasseurs 
l'ont  poursuivi  a  l'ouest  du  Mis- 
sissipi.  Si  la  race  de  ces  animaux 
a  peri,  comme  il  est  a  croire, 
quand  cette  destruction  dans  des 
pays  si  divers  et  dans  des  climats 
si  differents  est-elle  arrivee  ? 
Nous  n'en  savons  rien,  et  pour- 
tant  nous  demandons  tous  les  jours 
compte  a  Dieu  de  ses  ouvrages. 


mais  je  n 'ai  pu  y  trouver  aucun 
gout.  II  est  d'une  douceur  ex- 
tremement insipide.  Les  betes 
l'aiment  avec  passion,  au  point 
que  leurs  excrements  semblent 
etre  de  veritable  argile. — Bar- 
tram,  t.  I,  p.  90.li 

The  amazing  herds  of  buffalo 
which  resort  thither,  by  their  size 
and  number,  fill  the  traveler  with 
amazement  and  terror,  especially 
when  he  beholds  the  prodigious 
roads  they  have  made  from  all 
quarters,  as  if  leading  to  some 
populous  city. — Filson  (Imlav,  p. 
324). 

At  a  salt  spring  near  the  Ohio 
river,  very  large  bones  are  found, 
surpassing  the  size  of  any  species 
of  animals  now  in  America.  The 
head  appears  to  have  been  about 
3  feet  long,  the  ribs  7,  and  the 
thigh  bones,  about  4;  one  of  which 
is  reposited  in  the  library  in 
Philadelphia,  and  said  to  weigh 
78  pounds.  The  tusks  are  above 
a  foot  in  length,  the  grinders 
about  5  inches  square  and  8  inches 
long.  .  .  .  Specimens  of  them 
have  been  found  upon  comparison 
to  be  remains  of  the  same  species 
of  animals  that  produced  those 
other  fossil  bones  which  have 
been  discovered  in  Tartary,  Chili, 
and  several  other  places,  both  of 
the  old  and  new  continent.  What 
animal  this  is,  and  by  what  means 
its  ruins  are  found  in  regions  so 
widely  different,  and  where  none 
such  exists  at  present,  is  a  ques- 
tion of  more  difficult  decision. 
The  ignorant  and  superstitious 
Tartars  attribute  them  to  a  crea- 
ture,   whom    they    call    Maimon, 

a   combine   ici 


ii  Passage  cite  par  M.  Bedier,  p.  201.     Chateaubriand 
des  renseignements  pris  a  deux  auteurs  differents. 


320 


University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 


Le  Lie  des  grands  os  est  a  en- 
viron trente  milles  de  la  riviere 
Kentucky,  et  a  cent  huit  milles  a 
peu  pres  des  Eapides  de  l'Ohio. 
Les  bords  de  la  riviere  Kentucky 
sont  failles  a  pic  comme  des  murs. 
On  remarque  dans  ce  lieu  mi 
chemin  fait  par  les  buffles  qui 
descend  du  haut  d'une  colline, 
des  sources  de  bitume  qu'on  peut 
briiler  en  guise  d  'huile,  des 
grottes  qu  'embellissent  des  col- 
onnes  naturelles,  et  un  lac  sou- 
terrain  qui  s'etend  a  des  distances 
inconnues. 


Au  confluent  du  Kentucky  et 
de  l'Ohio,  le  paysage  deploie  une 
pompe  extraordinaire:  la,  ce  sont 
des  troupeaux  de  chevreuils,  qui 
de  la  pointe  d'un  rocher,  vous 
regardent  passer  sur  le  fleuve;  ici 
des  bouquets  de  vieux  pins  se  pro- 
jettent  horizontalement  sur  les 
flots;  des  plaines  riantes  se  derou- 
lent  a  perte  de  vue,  tandis  que 
des  rideaux  de  forets  voilent  la 
base  de  quelque  montagne  dont  la 
cime  apparait  dans  le  lointain. 


who  they  say,  usually  resides  at 
the  bottom  of  the  rivers. — Filson 
(Imlay,  pp.  324-5). 

Amongst  the  natural  curiosi- 
ties of  the  country,  the  winding 
banks,  or  rather  precipices  of  Ken- 
tucky and  Dick's  rivers,  deserve 
the  first  place.  The  astonished 
eye  there  beholds  almost  every- 
where 300  or  400  feet  of  a  solid 
perpendicular  limestone  rock  .  .  . 
a  great  road  made  by  the  buffalo, 
sloping  with  an  easy  descent  from 
the  top  to  the  bottom  of  a  very 
large  steep  hill,  at  or  near  the 
river   above   Lees-town. 

Caves  are  found  in  this  coun- 
try amazingly  large;  in  some  of 
which  you  may  travel  several 
miles  under  a  fine  limestone  rock, 
supported  by  curious  arches  and 
pillars.  .  .  .  Near  the  head  of 
Salt  River  a  subterranean  lake,  or 
a  large  pond,  has  lately  been  dis- 
covered. Col.  Bowman  says  that 
he  and  a  companion  travelled  in 
one  four  hours  till  he  luckily  came 
to  the  mouth  again.  .  .  .  There 
are  three  springs  or  ponds  of 
bitumen  near  Green  river,  which 
do  not  form  a  stream,  but  dis- 
gorge themselves  into  a  common 
reservoir,  and  when  used  in  lamps 
answer  all  the  purposes  of  the  finest 
oil. — Filson   (Imlay,  pp.  322-3). 


1915] 


Chinard:    Chateaubriand  en  Amerique 


321 


Ce  pays  si  magnifique  s'appelle 
pourtant  le  Kentucky  du  nom  de 
sa  riviere,  qui  signifie  riviere  de 
sang:  il  doit  ce  nom  funeste  a,  sa 
beaute  meme;  pendant  plus  de 
deux  siecles,  les  nations  du  parti 
des  Cheroquois  et  du  parti  des 
nations  iroquoises  s 'en  dispute- 
rent  les  chasses.  Sur  ce  champ 
de  bataille,  aucune  tribu  indienne 
n'osait  se  fixer:  les  Sawanoes,  les 
Miamis,  les  Piankiciawoes,  les 
Wayaoes,  les  Kaskasias,  les  Dela- 
wares,  les  Illinois  venaient  tour 
a  tour  y  combattre.  Ce  ne  fut 
que  vers  l'an  1752  que  les  Euro- 
peans commencerent  a  savoir 
quelque  chose  de  positif  sur  les 
vallees  situees  a  l'ouest  des  monts 
Alleghany,  appeles  d'abord  les 
montagnes  Endless  (sans  fin),  on 
Kittatinny,  ou  montagnes  Bleues. 
Cependant  Charlevoix,  en  1720, 
avait  parle  du  cours  de  1'Ohio,  et 
le  fort  Duquesne,  aujourd  'hui  fort 
Pitt  (Pitts-Burgh),  avait  ete 
trace  par  les  Franqais  a  la  jonc- 
tion  des  deux  rivieres,  meres  de 
l'Ohio.  En  1752,  Louis  Evant 
publia  une  carte  du  pays  situe  sur 
l'Ohio  et  le  Kentucky;  Jacques 
Macbrive  fit  une  course  dans  ce 
desert  en  1754;  Jones  Finley  y 
penetra  en  1757;  le  colonel  Boone 
le  decouvrit  entierement  en  1769, 
et  s  'y  etablit  avec  sa  f  amille  en 
1775.13    On  pretend  que  le  docteur 


C'etait  la  propriete  et  la  de- 
meure  des  Sawanoes,  des  Miamis, 
des  Piankiciawoes,  des  Wyaoes, 
des  Kaskasias,  des  Delawares  et 
des  Illinois,  peuples  qui  ont  ete 
en  partie  detruits. — Beltrami,  pp. 
18-19.12 


Endless  mountains,  so  called 
from  a  translation  of  the  Indian 
name  bearing  the  same  significa- 
tion.— Imlay,  p.  87. 

Kittaniny,  a  chain  of  the  End- 
less mountains. — Imlay,  p.  88. 


Mr.  Lewis  Evans,  to  whom  the 
Indian  traders  gave  an  account 
of  the  country  now  called  Ken- 
tucky, many  years  before  its  set- 
tlement, and  who  published  his 
first  map  of  it  as  early  as  1752. — 
Imlay,  p.   89,  n.     The  first  white 


i2  Cite  par  M.  Dick.  La  conformite  complete  des  orthographes  semble 
bien  indiquer  qu  'ici  Chateaubriand  a  comme  ' '  source ' '  Beltrami. 

13  "C  'est  aussi  de  Beltrami,"  dit  M.  Dick,  p.  31;  peut-etre  aussi 
Chateaubriand  a-t-il  tout  simplement  eu  recours  aux  Adventures  of  Colonel 
Daniel  Boon,  publiees  dans  Imlay,  pp.  338-359.  II  est  a  remarquer  que 
Beltrami  ne  parle  ni  de  Macbrive,  ni  de  Finley.  Je  reconnais  cependant 
qu  'Imlay  ne  parle  de  son  cote  ni  du  docteur  Wood,  ni  de  Simon  Kenton, 
tous  deux  cites  par  Beltrami.  Comme  pour  le  passage  precedent,  il 
s'agit  d'un  renseignement  complementaire  ajoute  par  Chateaubriand  a 
son  texte  primitif,  apres  coup,  et  apres  lecture  de  Beltrami,  ou  de  la 
source  de  Beltrami. 


University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 


Wood  et  Simon  Kenton  furent  les 
premiers  Europeens  qui  descendi- 
rent  1 'Ohio  en  1773,  depuis  le  fort 
Pitt  jusqu'au  Mississipi.  L 'or- 
gueil  national  Americains  les 
porte  a  s'attribuer  le  merite  de 
la  plupart  des  decouvertes  a  1 'Oc- 
cident des  Etats-Unis;  mais  il  ne 
faut  pas  oublier  que  les  Francais 
du  Canada  et  de  la  Louisiane,  ar- 
rivant  par  le  nord  et  par  le  midi, 
avaient  pareouru  ces  regions  de- 
puis longtemps  avant  les  Ameri- 
cains qui  venaient  du  cote  de 
1 'orient,  et  que  genaient  dans  leur 
route  la  confederation  des  Creeks 
et  les  Espagnols  des  Florides. 

Cette  terre  commence  (1791) 
a.  se  peupler  par  les  colonies  de  la 
Pensylvanie,  et  de  la  Virginie,  et 
de  la  Caroline,  et  par  quelques- 
uns  de  mes  malheureux  com- 
patriotes,  fuyant  devant  les 
premiers  orages  de  la  revolution. i-t 

Les  generations  europeennes 
seront-elles  plus  vertueuses  et  plus 
libres  sur  ces  bords  que  les  genera- 
tions americaines  qu'elles  auront 
exterminees?  Des  esclaves  ne 
laboureront-ils  point  la  terre  sous 
le  fouet  de  leur  maitre,  dans  ces 
deserts  ou  1  'homme  promenait  son 
independance?  Des  prisons  et  des 
gibets  ne  remplaceront-ils  point 
la  cabane  ouverte,  et  le  haut 
chene  qui  ne  porte  que  le  nid  des 
oiseaux?  La  richesse  du  sol  ne 
fera-t-elle  point  naitre  de  nou- 
velles  guerres?  Le  Kentucky 
cessera-t-il  d'etre  la  terre  du 
sang,  et  les  edifices  des  homines 
embelliront-ils  mieux  les  bords  de 


man  who  discovered  this  province 
.  .  .  was  one  James  McBride, 
who  in  company  with  some  others, 
in  the  year  1754,  .  .  .  landed  at 
the  mouth  of  the  Kentucky  river. 
— Imlay,  p.  307. 


14  C  'est  le  seul  passage  qui  permette  de  supposer  que  Chateaubriand 
connaissait  1 'existence  de  colonies  franchises  sur  les  bords  de  l'Ohio. 
J'y  reviendrai,  mais  je  tiens  a  faire  constater,  des  maintenant,  combien 
ce  renseignement  manque  de  precision. 


1915] 


Chinard:    Chateaubriand  en  Amerique 


323 


1  'Ohio  que  les  monuments  de  la 
nature? 

Du  Kentucky  aux  Rapides  de 
1'Ohio,  on  compte  a  peu  pres 
quatre-vingt  milles.  Ces  Rapides 
sont  formes  par  une  roche  qui 
s 'etend  sous  l'eau  dans  le  lit  de 
la  riviere;  la  descente  de  ces 
Eapides  n  'est  ni  dangereuse,  ni 
difficile,  la  chute  moyenne  n'etant 
guere  que  de  quatre  a  cinq  pieds 
dans  l'espace  d'un  tiers  de  lieue. 
La  riviere  se  divise  en  deux 
canaux  par  des  iles  groupees  au 
milieu  des  Rapides.  Lorsqu  'on 
s  'abandonne  au  courant,  on  peut 
passer  sans  alleger  les  bateaux, 
mais  il  est  difficile  de  les  remonter 
sans  diminuer  leur  charge. 

Le  fleuve  a  1  'endroit  des 
Rapides,  a  un  mille  de  large. 
Glissant  sur  le  magnifique  canal, 
la  vue  est  arretee  a,  quelque  dis- 
tance au  dessous  de  sa  chute  par 
une  ile  couverte  d'un  bois  d'ormes 
enguirlandes  de  lianes  et  de  vigne 
vierge. 

Au  nord,  se  dessinent  les  col- 
lines  de  la  Crique  d' Argent:  la 
premiere  de  ces  collines  trempe 
perpendiculairement  dans  l'Ohio; 
sa  falaise  taillee  a  grandes  fa- 
cettes  rouges,  est  decoree  de 
plantes;  d'autres  collines  paral- 
leles,  couronnees  de  forets  s'ele- 
vent  derriere  la  premiere  colline, 
fuient  en  montant  de  plus  en  plus 
dans  le  ciel,  jusqu'a  ce  que  leur 
sommet  frappe  de  lumiere,  de- 
vienne  de  la  couleur  du  ciel  et 
s'evanouisse. 

Au  midi,  ce  sont  des  savanes 
parsemees  de  bocages  et  cou- 
vertes  de  buffies,  les  uns  couches, 
les    autres    errants,    ceux-ci    pais- 


The  Rapids  of  the  Ohio  lie 
about  seven  hundred  miles  below 
Pittsburg,  and  about  four  hun- 
dred above  its  confluence  with  the 
Mississipi.  They  are  occasioned 
by  a  ledge  of  rocks  that  stretcli 
across  the  bed  of  the  river  from 
one  side  to  the  other.  .  .  .  The 
fall  is  not  more  than  between 
four  and  five  feet  in  the  distance 
of  a  mile;  so  that  boats  of  any 
burden  may  pass  with  safety 
when  there  is  a  flood;  but  boats 
coming  up  the  river  must  unload. 
Imlay,  p.  33. 


The  view  up  the  river  is  ter- 
minated, at  the  distance  of  four 
leagues,  by  an  island  in  its  cen- 
ter, which  is  contrasted  by  the 
plain  on  the  opposite  shore  that 
extends  a  long  way  into  the  coun- 
try; but  the  eye  receding  finds 
new  beauties,  and  ample  subject 
for  admiration,  in  the  rising  hills 
of  Silver  Creek  which,  stretching 
obliquely  to  the  northwest,  proud- 
ly rise  higher  as  they  extend 
until  their  illumined  summits  im- 
perceptibly vanish. — Imlay,  p.  34. 


Travelling  a  few  leagues  farther 
southward,  you  arrive  at  ex- 
tensive plains.  .  .  .  Some  few 
clumps  of  trees,  and  a  grove  here 


324 


University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 


sant  l'herbe,  ceux-la  arretes  en 
groupe,  et  opposant  les  uns  aux 
autres  leurs  tetes  baissees.  An 
milieu  de  ce  tableau,  les  Rapides, 
selon  qu  'ils  sont  frappes  des 
rayons  du  soleil,  rebrousses  par  le 
vent,  on  ombres  par  les  nuages 
s'elevant  en  bouillons  d'or,  blan- 
ehissent  en  eeunie,  on  roulent  a 
flots  brunis. 


Au  bas  des  Rapides  est  un 
ilot  ou  les  corps  se  petrifient.  C'et 
ilot  est  convert  d  'eau  au  temps 
des  debordements;  on  pretend  que 
la  vertu  petrifiante  confinee  a  ce 
petit  coin  de  terre  ne  s'etend  pas 
au  rivage  voisin. 


Des  Rapides  a  rembouchure  du 
"Wabash,  on  compte  trois  cent 
seize  milles.  Cette  riviere  com- 
munique, au  moyen  d  'un  portage 
de  neuf  milles,  avec  le  Miamis  du 
lac  qui  se  deeharge  dans  1 'Erie. 
Les  Rivages  du  Wabash  sont 
eleves;  on  y  a  decouvert  line  mine 
d  'argent. 

A  quatre-vingt-quatorze  milles 
au-dessous  de  1 'embouchure  du 
Wabash,  commence  une  cypriere. 
De  cette  cypriere  aux  Bancs 
jaunes,  toujours  en  descendant 
l'Ohio,  il  y  a  cinquante-six  milles: 
on  laisse  a  gauche  les  embouchures 
de  deux  rivieres  qui  ne  sont  qu'a 
dix-huit  milles  de  distance  l'line 
de  1  'autre. 

La  premiere  riviere  s'appelle 
le  Cheroquois  ou  le  Tennesse; 
elle  sort  des  monts  qui  separent 
les  Carolines  et  les  Georgies  de  ce 


and  there,  are  the  only  obstruc- 
tions to  a  boundless  horizon.  It 
is  pleasant  to  behold  the  deer 
bounding  over  the  scraggy  shrubs 
which  cover  the  earth.  While  the 
setting  sun  gilds  those  extensive 
plains  the  mild  breezes  of  a  sum- 
mer eve  softens  the  heart  to 
love  and  friendship.  Unperceived, 
upon  some  eminence,  you  may  en- 
joy the  sports  of  wild  animals, 
which  here  rove  unconcerned 
lords  of  the  field. — Imlay,  p.  35. 

Near  the  bottom  of  the  falls 
is  a  small  rocky  island  which  is 
overflowed  at  high  water.  This 
island  is  remarkable  for  being  the 
seat  of  petrifications.  But  what 
is  more  particularly  to  be  re- 
marked is,  that  this  petrifying 
quality  is  confined  to  the  island, 
and  does  not  so  frequently  afford 
samples  of  fit  on  the  opposite 
shores. — J.  Heart  (Imlay,  p.  300). 

The  Wabash  is  a  beautiful 
river,  with  high  and  upright 
banks.  It  may  be  ascended  with 
boats  to  the  Miami  carrying 
place,  which  is  nine  miles  from 
The  Miami  village;  and  this  is 
situated  on  a  river  of  the  same 
name,  that  runs  into  the  south- 
southwest  part  of  Lake  Erie.  .  .  . 
A  silver  mine  has  been  discovered 
about  28  miles  from  Ouiatanon. 
...  It  discharges  itself  into  the 
Ohio  1022  miles  from  below  Fort 
Pitt.— Hutchins  (Imlay,  p.  497). 


In  its  course  it  is  very  rapid 
thus  far.  ...  It  now  turns  again 
to  the  north,  and  from  its  lazy 
motion,  it  is  obvious  that  there 
is  very  little  fall  of  water  from 
this  to  the  Ohio.  This  turn  con- 
stitutes what  is  called  the  Great 


1915] 


Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique 


325 


qu  'on  appelle  les  terres  de 
1  'Ouest ;  elle  roule  d  'abord  d  'orient 
en  Occident  au  pied  des  monts: 
dans  cette  premiere  partie  de 
son  cours,  elle  est  rapide,  tumul- 
tueuse,  ensuite  elle  tourne  subite- 
ment  au  nord;  grossie  de  plusieurs 
affluents,  elle  epand  et  retient  ses 
ondes,  comme  pour  se  delasser, 
apres  une  fuite  precipitee  de 
quatre  cent  lieues.  A  son  em- 
bouchure, elle  a  600  toises  de 
large,  et  dans  un  endroit  nomme 
le  Grand  Detour,  elle  presente  une 
nappe  d  'eau  d  'une  lieue  d  'eten- 
due. 

La  seconde  riviere,  le  Shana- 
won  ou  le  Cumberland  est  la 
compagne  du  Cheroquois  ou  du 
Tennesse.  Elle  passe  avec  lui  son 
enfance  dans  les  memes  montagnes 
et  descend  avec  lui  dans  les 
plaines.  Vers  le  milieu  de  sa  car- 
riere,  obligee  de  quitter  le  Ten- 
nesse, elle  se  hate  de  parcourir 
des  lieux  deserts,  et  les  deux 
jumeaux  se  rapprochant  vers  la 
fin  de  leur  vie,  expirent  a  quelque 
distance  1  'un  de  1  'autre  dans 
l'Ohio  qui  les  reunit. 

Le  pays  que  ces  rivieres  ar- 
rosent  est  generalement  entre- 
coupe  de  collines  et  de  vallees 
rafraichies  par  une  multitude  de 
ruisseaux:  cependant  il  y  a  quel- 
ques  plaines  de  Cannes  sur  le 
Cumberland,  et  plusieurs  grandes 
cyprieres.  Le  buffle  et  le  chev- 
reuil  abondent  dans  ce  pays  qu  'ha- 
bitent  encore  des  nations  sau- 
vages,  particulierement  les  Chero- 
quois. Les  cimetieres  indiens 
sont  frequents,  triste  preuve  de 
1'ancienne  population  de  ces 
deserts. 


Bend  of  the  Tenasee,  or  Muscle 
Shoal,  from  the  number  of  shoals 
in  this  part  of  the  river  that  are 
covered  with  these  shell -fish.  The 
Tennessee  is  600  yards  wide  at 
its  mouth,  and  upon  ascending  it, 
to  the  distance  of  260  miles,  it 
widens  to  between  two  and  three 
miles,  which  width  continues  for 
nearly  thirty  miles,  which  com- 
prehends what  is  called  the  Great 
Bend. — Imlay,  p.  39,  et  n. 


Cumberland  river  rises  among 
the  mountains,  considerably  to 
the  northeast  .  .  .  runs  a  long 
way  south  and  enters  the  limits 
of  North  Carolina.  After  a 
course  of  half  a  degree  within 
those  limits,  it  turns  to  the  north- 
west. The  Tenasee  runs  into  the 
Ohio,  not  a  long  way  below  the 
mouth  of  Cumberland. — Imlay,  p. 


The  rich  lands  near  Cumber- 
land river  are  considerably  broken 
by  knobs  and  short  hills  .  .  . 
streams  that  run  in  opposite  direc- 
tions are  uniformly  divided  by 
rising  ground,  and  some  of  the 
ridge  are  considerably  elevated. — 
Imlay,  p.  522. 

The  undergrowth  in  many 
places  is  cane  15  to  20  feet  high. 
so  closed  together  as  to  exclude 
all  other  plants.  ...  On  the  hills 
at  the  heads  of  rivers,  we  find 
stately  red  cedars;  in  speaking  of 
a  new  country,  that  is  extremely 
fertile  and  well  covered  with 
herbage   it    can   hardly   be   neces- 


>6  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 


sary  to  say  that  it  abounds  in 
wild  game.  The  buffalo,  elk,  deer, 
and  bear  are  numerous. — Imlay, 
p.    41. 


De  la  grande  cypriere  sur 
l'Ohio  aux  Bancs  jaunes,  j  'ai  dit 
que  la  route  estimee  est  d 'environ 
cinquante-six  milles.  Les  Bancs 
jaunes  sont  ainsi  nommes  de  leur 
couleur:  places  sur  la  rive  septen- 
trionale  de  l'Ohio,  on  les  rase  de 
pres  parce  que  l'eau  est  profonde 
de  ce  cote.  L'Ohio  a  presque 
partout  mi  double  rivage,  l'un 
pour  la  saison  des  debordements, 
1 'autre  pour  les  temps  de  seche- 
resse. 

Des  Bancs  jaunes  a  1 'embou- 
chure de  1  'Ohio  dans  le  Mississipi, 
par  les  36°  51'  de  latitude  on 
compte  a  peu  pres  trente-cinq 
milles. 

Pour  bien  juger  du  confluent 
de  ces  deux  fleuves,  il  faut  sup- 
poser  que  Ton  part  d'une  petite 
ile  sous  la  rive  orientale  du  Mis- 
sissipi qui  coule  dans  cet  endroit 
presque  est  et  ouest,  et  qui  pre- 
sente  une  grande  eau  troublee  et 
tumultueuse;  a  droite,  l'Ohio, 
plus  transparent  que  le  cristal, 
plus  paisible  que  1  'air,  vient  lente- 
ment  du  nord  an  sud,  decrivant 
une  eourbe  gracieuse:  l'un  et 
1 'autre  dans  les  saisons  moyennes 
out  a  peu  pres  deux  milles  de 
large  au  moment  de  leur  recontre 
Le  volume  de  leur  fluide  est 
presque  le  meme;  les  deux  fleuves, 
s'opposant  une  resistance  egale, 
ralentissent  leur  cours,  et  parais- 
sent  dormir  ensemble  pendant 
quelques  lieues,  dans  leur  lit 
commun. 

La  pointe  ou  ils  marient  leurs 
flots  est  elevee  d'une  vingtaine  de 
pieds  au-dessus  d'eux.  compose  de 


1915] 


Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique 


327 


limon  et  de  sable,  ce  cap  mareea- 
geux  se  couvre  de  chanvre  sau- 
vage,  de  vigne  qui  rampe  sur  le 
sol  on  qui  grimpe  le  long  des 
tuyaux  de  l'herbe  a  buffle;  des 
chenes-saules  croissent  aussi  sur 
eette  langue  de  terre  qui  disparait 
dans  les  grandes  inondations.  Les 
fleuves  debordes  et  reunis  res- 
semblent  alors  a  un  vaste  lac. 

Le  confluent  du  Missouri  et  du 
Mississipi  presente  peut-etre  en- 
core quelque  chose  de  plus  extra- 
ordinaire. Le  Missouri  est  un 
fleuve  fougueux,  anx  eaux  blanches 
et  limoneuses,  qui  se  precipite 
dans  le  pur  et  tranquille  Missis- 
sipi avec  violence.  Au  printemps, 
il  detache  de  ses  rives  de  vastes 
morceaux  de  terre:  ces  iles  flot- 
tantes  descendent  le  cours  du  Mis- 
souri avec  leurs  arbres  couverts  de 
feuilles  ou  de  fleurs;  les  uns  en- 
core debout,  les  autres  a  moitie 
tombes,  offrent  un  spectacle  mer- 
veilleux. 


De  1 'embouchure  de  l'Ohio  aux 
mines  de  fer  sur  la  cote  orientale 
du  Mississipi,  il  n'y  a  guere  plus 
de  quinze  milles;  des  mines  de  fer 
a,  1 'embouchure  de  la  riviere  des 
Ohicassas,  on  marque  soixante- 
sept  milles.  II  faut  faire  cent 
quatre  milles  pour  arriver  aux 
collines  de  Margette  qu  'arrose  la 
petite  riviere  de  ce  nom;  c 'est  un 
lieu  rempli  de  gibier. 


The  Missouri  is  a  more  power- 
ful stream  than  the  Mississippi, 
and  in  entering  that  river,  it 
triumphantly  rushes  across,  and 
in  its  turbid  waters,  unmixed, 
seem  to  disdain  a  connection  so 
inferior. — Imlay,   p.   74. 

The  conflict  between  the  sea 
and  this  mighty  river,  which 
brings  down  with  its  great  stream 
great  number  of  trees,  mud, 
leaves,  etc.,  causes  them  to  sub- 
side, and  form  shoals.  ...  In  time 
they  are  consolidated,  every  flood 
adds  another  layer  to  their 
height,  forming  islands,  which  at 
length  are  covered  with  shrubs, 
grass,  and  cane,  and  forcibly 
shift  the  bed  of  the  river— Fil- 
son   (Imlay,  p.  331). is 

From  Mine  au  Fer  to  the  Ohio 
river,  which  is  the  largest  eastern 
branch  of  the  Mississippi,  is  15 
miles.  .  .  .  From  the  Chicasaw 
river  to  Mine  au  fer,  or  the  Iron 
Mines,  on  the  east  side  of  the 
Mississippi,  is  67  miles  and  a 
quarter.  From  the  River  Margot 
to  the  Chicasaw  river,  which  is 
on  the  east  side  of  the  Mississippi, 
is  101  miles  and  a  half. — Hutchins 
(Imlay,  p.  429). 


1BJ'indique  ce  rapprochement  sous  toutes  reserves;  il  est  fort  pos 
sible  que  Chateaubriand  se  soit  ici  servi  d'un  autre  auteur  que  je  n'ai 
pas  su  retrouver.  Voir  aussi  le  prologue  d'Atala  ou  se  retrouve  une  de- 
scription analogue. 


328 


University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology       [Vol.  4 


Pourquoi  trouve-t-on  tant  de 
charme  a  la  vie  sauvage?  Pour- 
quoi 1  'liomme  le  plus  accoutume 
a  exercer  sa  pensee  s  'oublie-t-il 
joyeusement  dans  le  tumulte  d'une 
chasse?  Courir  dans  les  bois, 
poursuivre  des  betes  sauvages, 
batir  sa  hutte,  allumer  son  feu, 
appreter  soi-meme  son  repas  aupres 
d'une  source,  est  certainement  un 
tres  grand  plaisir.  Mille  Euro- 
peans ont  connu  ce  plaisir,  et  n  'en 
ont  plus  voulu  d 'autre,  tandis  que 
1  'Indien  meurt  de  regret,  si  on 
1  'enf erme  dans  nos  cites.  Cela 
prouve  que  1'homme  est  plutot  un 
etre  actif,  qu'un  etre  contempla- 
tif,  que  dans  sa  condition  natu- 
relle,  il  lui  faut  peu  de  chose,  et 
que  la  simplicity  de  1  'ame  est  une 
source  inepuisable  de  bonheur. 

De  la  riviere  Margette  a  celle 
de  Saint-Franc,ois,  on  parcourt 
soixante-dix  milles.  La  riviere  de 
Saint-Francois  a  requ  son  nom  des 
Frangais,  et  elle  est  encore  pour 
eux  un  rendez-vous  de  chasse. 


On  compte  cent  buit  milles  de 
la  riviere  Saint-Francois  aux 
Akansas  ou  Arkansas.  Les  Akan- 
sas  nous  sont  encore  fort  attaches. 
De  tous  les  Europeens,  mes  com- 
patriotes  sont  les  plus  aimes  des 
Indiens.  Cela  tient  a  la  gaite  des 
Frangais,  a  leur  valeur  brillante, 
a  leur  gout  de  la  chasse  et  rnerae 
de  la  vie  sauvage;  comme  si  la 
plus  grande  civilisation  se  rap- 
prochait  de  1  'etat  de  nature. 


All  things  were  still.  I  kindled 
a  fire  near  a  fountain  of  sweet 
water  and  feasted  on  the  loin  of 
a  buck,  which  a  few  hours  before 
I  had  killed.  .  .  .  No  populous 
city,  with  all  the  varieties  of 
commerce  and  stately  structures, 
could  afford  so  much  pleasure  to 
my  mind,  as  the  beauties  of 
nature  I  found  here.  .  .  .  Felicity, 
the  companion  of  content,  is 
rather  found  in  our  own  breasts 
than  in  the  enjoyment  of  external 
things:  and  I  firmly  believe  it  re- 
quires but  a  little  philosophy  to 
make  a  man  happy  in  whatsoever 
state  he  is. — Boon  (Imlay,  pp. 
339-341). i6 


From  the  river  St.  Francis  to 
the  river  and  heights  of  Margot, 
which  are  on  the  east  side  of  the 
Mississippi,  is  70  miles  and  a 
half.  This  is  a  small  river,  and 
is  remarkable  for  nothing  but  the 
general  rendezvous  of  the  hunters 
from  New  Orleans.  Formerly  the 
French  had  a  post  at  the  en 
trance  of  this  river. — Hutchins 
(Imlay,  p.  428). 

From  the  Arkansaw  river  to 
the  river  St.  Francis,  which  is  on 
the  west  side  of  the  Mississippi, 
is  108  miles.  .  .  .  The  Arkansaw 
Indians,  consisting  of  about  280 
warriors,  who  are  as  much  at- 
tached to  the  French  interests  as 
the  Chicasaws  are  to  that  of  the 
English.  .  .  .  The  river  Arkan- 
saw is  so  called  from  a  nation  of 
Indians  of  the  same  name. — 
Hutchins  (Imlay,  p.  428). 


is  Ce  passage  n  'est  donne  qu  'a,  titre  d  'indication.  On  en  trouverait 
d '  analogues  chez  presque  tous  les  voyageurs  en  Amerique  de  la  fin  du 
XVIIIe  siecle. 


1915] 


Chinard: 


Chateaubriand  en  Amerique 


La  riviere  d  'Akansas  est  navi- 
gable en  canot  pendant  plus  de 
quatre  cent  cinquante  milles:  elle 
coule  a  travers  une  belle  contree; 
sa  source  parait  etre  cachee  dans 
les  montagnes  du  Nouveau- 
Mexique. 

Its  source  is  nearly  in  the  lati- 
tude of  Santa  Fe  in  New  Mexico, 
and  it  is  said  to  be  navigable  for 
batteaux  750  miles.  —  Hutcliins 
(Imlay,  p.  428). 

De  la  riviere  des  Akansas  a 
celle  des  Yazous,  cent  cinquante- 
huit  milles.  Cette  derniere  riviere 
a  cent  toises  de  largeur  a  son 
embouchure.  Dans  la  saison  des 
pluies,  les  grands  bateaux  peuvent 
remonter  le  Yazou  a  plus  de 
quatre-vingt  milles;  une  petite 
cataracte  oblige  seulement  a  un 
portage.  Les  Yazous,  les  Chactas 
et  les  Chicassas  habitaient  autre- 
fois les  diverses  branches  de  cette 
riviere.  Les  Yazous  ne  faisaient 
qu  'un  peuple  avec  les  Natchez. 

La  distance  des  Yazous  aux 
Natchez  par  le  fleuve  se  divise 
ainsi:  des  cotes  des  Yazous  ou 
[au]  Bayouk-Noir,  trente-neuf 
milles;  du  Bayouk-Noir  a  la 
riviere  des  Pierres,  trente  milles; 
de  la  riviere  des  Pierres  aux 
Natchez,  dix  milles.  Depuis  les 
cotes  des  Yazous,  jusqu'au  Bayouk- 
Noir,  le  Mississipi  est  rempli 
d'iles  et  fait  de  long  detours,  sa 
largeur  est  d  'environ  deux  milles, 
sa  profondeur  de  huit  a  dix 
brasses.  II  serait  facile  de  di- 
minuer  la  distance  en  coupant  des 
pointes.  La  distance  de  la  Nou- 
velle-Orleans  a  1 'embouchure  de 
l'Ohio,  qui  n 'est  que  de  quatre 
cent     soixante     milles     en     ligne 


From  the  Yazou  to  the  river 
Arkansaw  is  158  miles  and  a 
quarter.  .  .  .  The  mouth  of  this 
river  is  upwards  of  100  yards  in 
width.  The  above  branches  unite 
50  miles  from  the  Mississippi,  fol- 
lowing the  course  of  the  river; 
the  navigation  to  their  junction, 
commonly  called  the  fork,  is  prac- 
ticable with  very  large  boats  in 
the  spring  season,  and  with 
smaller  ones  a  considerable  way 
further,  with  the  interruption  of 
one  fall.  .  .  .  Here  the  country  is 
clear  of  underwood  and  well 
watered,  and  the  soil  very  rich, 
which  continues  to  the  Chacataw 
and  Chicasaw  towns.  The  former 
is  situated  on  the  eastern  branch 
of  the  Yazou. 

From  the  Big  Black  to  the 
Yazou  Cliffs  is  39  miles  and  three- 
quarters.  .  .  .  From  Bayouk  Pierre 
to  Lousa  Chitto,  or  the  Big  Black, 
is  ten  miles.  .  .  .  From  the  Petit 
Gouffre  to  Bayouk  Pierre,  or 
Stoney  river,  is  four  miles  and  a 
quarter.  .  .  .  From  Fort  Rosalie 
to  the  Petit  Gouffre  is  31  miles 
and  a  half. 

The  direction  of  the  channel  is 
so  crooked,  that  from  New  Or- 
leans to  the  mouth  of  the  Ohio,  a 
distance  which  does  not  exceed 
460  miles  in  a  straight  line,  is 
about  856  miles  by  water.  It  may 
be  shortened  at  least  250  miles, 
by  cutting  across  eight  or  ten 
necks  of  land,  some  of  which  are 


330 


University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 


droite,  est  de  huit  cent  cinquante- 
six  milles  sur  le  fleuve.  On  pour- 
rait  raccourcir  ce  trajet  de  deux 
cent   cinquante   milles   au   moins. 

Du  Bayouk-Noir  a  la  riviere 
des  Pierres,  on  remarque  des  car- 
rieres  de  pierres.  Ce  sont  les  pre- 
mieres que  l'on  rencontre,  a  partir 
de  1 'embouchure  du  Mississipi 
jusqu  'a  la  petite  riviere  qui  a  pris 
le  nom  de  ces  carrieres. 

Le  Mississipi  est  sujet  a  deux 
inondations  periodiques,  l'une  au 
printemps,  1 'autre  en  automne:  la 
premiere  est  la  plus  considerable; 
elle  commence  en  mai  et  finit  en 
juin.  Le  courant  du  fleuve  file 
alors  a  cinq  milles  a  l'heure,  et 
1 'ascension  des  contre-courants  est 
a  peu  pres  de  la  meme  vitesse: 
admirable  prevoyance  de  la  nature, 
car  sans  ces  contre-courants,  les 
embarcations  pourraient  a  peine 
remonter  le  fleuve.  A  cette 
epoque,  1  'eau  s  'eleve  a,  une  grande 
hauteur,  noie  ses  rivages,  et  ne 
retourne  point  au  fleuve  dont  elle 
est  sortie,  comme  l'eau  du  Nil: 
elle  reste  sur  la  terre,  ou  filtre  h 
travers  le  sol,  sur  lequel  elle  de- 
pose un  sediment  fertile. 

La  seconde  crue  a  lieu  aux 
pluies  d'octobre;  elle  n'est  pas 
aussi  considerable  que  celle  du 
printemps.  Pendant  ces  inonda- 
tions, le  Mississipi  charrie  des 
trains  de  bois  enormes,  et  pousse 
des  mugissements.  La  vitesse 
ordinaire  du  cours  du  fleuve  est 
d 'environ  deux  milles  a  l'heure. 

Les  terres  un  peu  elevees  qui 
bordent  le  Mississipi,  depuis  la 
Nouvelle-Orleans    jusqu  'a    1  'Ohio, 


not     30     yards     wide. — Hutchins 
(imlay,  p.  427). 


There  is  plenty  of  building 
stones  near  the  Yazou,  but  none 
as  yet  has  been  discovered  nearer 
to  the  Natchez  than  the  Petit 
Gouffre.  Between  this  place  and 
the  Balize  there  is  not  a  stone  to 
be  seen  anywhere  near  the  river. 
— Hutchins   (Imlay,  p.  427). 

In  the  spring  floods  the  Mis- 
sissippi is  very  high,  and  the  cur- 
rent so  strong  that  with  difficulty 
it  can  be  ascended;  but  that  dis- 
advantage is  compensated  by  ed- 
dies or  counter  currents,  which 
always  run  in  the  bends  close  to 
the  banks  of  the  river  with  nearly 
equal  velocity  against  the  stream, 
and  assist  the  ascending  boats. 
The  current  at  this  season  descends 
at  the  rate  of  about  five  miles  an 
hour  .  .  .i"  Its  waters,  after 
overflowing  its  banks  near  Iber- 
ville, never  return  with  them 
again.  These  singularities  dis- 
tinguish it  from  every  other  river 
known  in  the  world. — Hutchins 
(Imlay,  p.  404). 


In  autumn,  when  the  waters 
are  low,  it  does  not  run  faster 
than  two  miles. 

Ce  fleuve  a,  de  chaque  cote, 
une  file  de  montagnes  tout  le  long 
de    son    cours;    &    ces   montagnes, 


it  Ici  se  trouve  la  phrase  transportee  dans  le  paragraphe  suivant  par 
Chateaubriand,  sur  la  vitesse  du  fleuve,  en  automne. 


1915] 


Chinard:    Chateaubriand  en  Amerique 


sont  presque  toutes  sur  la  rive 
gauche;  mais  ces  terres  s'eloig- 
nent  ou  se  rapprochent  de  plus  en 
plus  <l\i  canal,  laissant  quelquefois, 
entre  elles  et  le  fleuve,  des  savanes 
de  plusieurs  milles  de  largeur. 
Les  collines  ne  courent  pas  tou- 
jours  parallelement  au  rivage; 
tantot  elles  divergent  en  des 
rayons  a  de  grandes  distances,  et 
presentent,  dans  les  perspectives 
qu 'elles  ouvrent,  des  vallees  plan- 
tees  de  mille  sortes  d'arbres; 
tantot  elles  viennent  converger 
au  fleuve,  et  forment  une  multi- 
tude de  caps  qui  se  mirent  dans 
l'onde.  La  rive  droite  du  Mis- 
sissipi  est  rase,  marecageuse,  uni- 
forme,  a  quelques  exceptions  pres: 
au  milieu  des  hautes  cannes  vertes 
ou  dorees  qui  la  decorent,  on  voit 
bondir  des  buffles,  ou  etinceler  les 
eaux  d  'one  multitude  d  'etangs 
remplis  d'oiseaux  aquatiques. 


Les  poissons  du  Mississipi  sont 
la  perche,  le  brochet,  l'esturgeon 
et  les  colles;  on  peche  aussi  des 
crabes  enormes. 


Le  sol  autour  du  fleuve  fournit 
la  rhubarbe,  le  coton,  1 'indigo,  le 
safran,  l'arbre  a  cire,  le  sassafras, 


tantot  s'approchent  d'assez  pres, 
tantot  s  'eloignent  considerable- 
ment.  Le  terrein  entre  ces  mon- 
tagnes  est  en  general  couvert 
d'herbes,  avec  quelques  bouquets 
de  bois  disperses  ca  et  la,  pres 
desquels  on  voit  des  troupeaux  de 
cerfs  et  d 'elans  qui  paissent 
tranquillement  dans  ces  vastes 
solitudes.  En  plusieurs  endroits, 
on  appergoit  des  pyramides  de 
rochers  qui  ressemblent  a  de 
vieilles  tours  en  mines;  dans 
d'autres  on  voit  des  precipices  ef- 
frayans;  &  ce  qu'il  y  a  de  re- 
marquable,  c  'est  que  tandis  qu  'un 
cote  presente  cet  aspect,  le  cote 
oppose  est  couvert  de  la  plus  belle 
verdure  jusqu  'au  sommet.  On 
jouit  de  la  d'une  vue  dont  la 
beaute  et  l'etendue  surpassent 
tout  ce  que  1  'imagination  peut 
se  figurer.  Qu'on  se  represents 
des  plaines  verdoyantes,  des 
prairies  couvertes  de  fruits,  des 
iles  nombreuses,  le  tout  rempli 
d'une  prodigieuse  variete  d'arbres 
fruitiers.  ...  II  est  frequente 
ainsi  que  ses  bords  par  une 
grande  variete  d'oiseaux,  comme 
des  cigognes,  des  cygnes,  des  oies, 
des  canards;  ...  les  plaines  ad- 
jacentes  sont  peuplees  des  plus 
grands  buffles  que  j  'aie  jamais  vus. 
—Carver,  pp.  30-31. is 

The  Mississippi  furnishes  in 
great  plenty  several  sorts  of  fish, 
particularly  perch,  pike,  sturgeon, 
eel,  and  calts  of  a  monstrous  size. 
Craw-fish  abound  in  this  country. 
— Hutchins  (Imlay,  p.  408). 

The  neighbourhood  of  the  Mis- 
sissippi, besides,  furnishes  the 
richest    fruits    in    great    variety, 


is  Chez  Carver  cette  derniere  partie  a  trait  au  Lac  Pepin  et  non  au 
Mississippi.  Chateaubriand  a  reproduit  ce  passage  avec  quelques  modi- 
fications dans  le  prologue  d'Atala. 


332  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology       [Vol.  4 

particularly   grapes,   oranges,   and 
lemons  in  the  highest  perfection. 
It  produces  silk,  cotton,  sassafras, 
le   lin   sauvage:    un  vers   du  pays  safron    and    rhubarb;    it   is   pecu- 

file  une  assez  forte  soie;  la  drague,  liarly  adapted  for  hemp  and  flax; 

dans    quelques    ruisseaux,    amene  and  indigo  is  at  present  a  staple 

quelques    huitres    a    perles,    mais  commodity. — Hutchins    (Imlay,  p. 

dont    l'eau    n 'est    pas    belle.      On  407). 

connait   une   mine   de   vif   argent,  [Imlay  decrit  encore  l'arbre  a 

une  autre  de  lapis-lazuli,  et  quel-  cire,  Candleberry  myrtle  ou  myrica 

ques  mines  de  fer.  cerifera. — Imlay,  p.  271]. 


1915]  Chlnard:    Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  333 


LES  TERRES  DE  L'OUEST  EN  1791 
On  peut  contester  quelques  points  de  detail  dans  les  rap- 
prochements que  nous  avons  indiques,  et  je  suis  le  premier  a 
reconnaitre  qu'en  plusieurs  cas  j'ai  mis  1'un  a  cote  de  1 'autre 
des  passages  qui  presentent  des  ressemblances,  des  analogies,  mais 
non  une  identite  complete.  Dans  1 'ensemble  on  m'accordera 
cependant  que  c'est  bien  a  Imlay  et  a  Carver  que  Chateaubriand 
emprunte  ses  renseignements  sur  les  lacs,  l'Ohio  et  le  Mississipi; 
Beltrami  ne  lui  a  fourni  que  deux  renseignements  sans  grande 
importance.  La  conclusion  qu'il  en  faut  tirer  est  que  pour  cette 
partie  du  voyage  au  moins  Chateaubriand  se  sert  de  notes  prises 
de  longues  annees  auparavant  et  non  d'un  ouvrage  tout  recent; 
il  est  de  plus  evident  qu'il  ajoute  tres  peu  de  remarques  per- 
sonnelles  aux  textes  de  ses  autorites.  II  nous  reste  a  nous  de- 
mander  quel  etait  l'etat  du  pays  a  cette  date  de  1791,  quels 
etaient  les  moyens  de  transport  dont  diposaient  les  voyageurs,  et 
quelles  etaient  les  routes  qu'ils  suivaient.  C'est  un  travail  rela- 
tivement  facile  qui  ne  demande  que  quelques  recherches  et  quel- 
ques  fouilles  dans  les  bibliotheques :  on  verra  bientot  que  Chateau- 
briand s'il  a  fait  le  voyage  de  l'Ohio  et  du  Mississipi  a  ete  un 
pietre  observateur. 

Nous  n'essaierons  pas  de  reconstituer  dans  le  detail  un 
itineraire  forcement  hypothetique.  Du  voyage  de  Chateaubriand 
nous  ne  retiendrons  que  les  principales  etapes :  la  descente  de 
l'Ohio  et  du  Mississipi,  puis  le  retour  par  les  Terres  de  I'Ouest 
vers  Philadelphia  Nous  allons  bientot  voir  que  raerae  ainsi 
simplifiees  les  courses  que  notre  aventureux  voyageur  pretend 
avoir  faites  presentaient  des  difficultes  insurmontables. 

D'apres  M.  Bedier,  Chateaubriand  arrive  a  Pittsbourg  le  Hi 
septembre;  pour  faire  large  mesure  j 'accorderai  meme  qu'il  est 
arrive  quinze  jours  plus  tot,  tout  au  commencement  de  septembre  ; 
le  voyage  n'en  deviendra  pas  plus  aise. 


334  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 

A  cette  date  Pittsbourg  etait  presque  en  etat  de  siege.1  II 
etait  evident  depuis  plusieurs  annees  qu'une  guerre  se  preparait 
dans  cette  region  entre  les  Indiens  probablement  pousses  par  les 
Espagnols  et  les  Anglais,  et  le  gouvernement  des  Etats-Unis.  Les 
Americains  n'avaient  que  quelques  forts  le  long  du  fleuve  et  ne 
disposaient  que  de  garnisons  insuffisantes.  Aussi  des  1790,  les 
communications  etaient  devenues  extremement  dangereuses.  Les 
bateaux  etaient  arretes  constamment,  et  particulierement  a 
l'embouchure  du  Scioto.  II  y  avait  sur  la  rive  du  Kentucky  un 
roc  eleve  qui  servait  aux  Indiens  de  poste  d 'observation  et  d'ou 
ils  pouvaient  surveiller  la  riviere,  et  Ton  avait  vainement  tente 
a  plusieurs  reprises  de  detruire  ce  repaire  de  maraudeurs.  Le 
ler  mai  1790  le  general  Saint  Clair  ecrivait  an  ministre  de  la 
guerre  que  l'ouverture  des  hostilites  semblait  inevitable.  Le  15 
juillet  de  la  meme  annee  il  demandait  des  troupes,  et  pendant 
quelque  temps  les  difficultes  furent  telles  que  le  bruit  se  repandit 
que  le  gouvernement  avait  1 'intention  d'abandonner  l'Ohio. 
Cependant  le  ler  octobre  Harmar  avec  320  reguliers  et  1133 
miliciens  s'avance  vers  les  villages  des  Miamis  et  des  Delawares, 
vers  le  confluent  des  rivieres  Sainte-Marie  et  Saint-Joseph,  et 
detruit  leurs  provisions,  et  jusqu'au  mois  de  novembre  de  petits 
detachements  parcourent  le  pays  ravageant  tout  sur  leur  passage 
et  cherchant  a  affamer  les  Indiens.  Le  soir  du  2  Janvier  1791, 
une  troupe  de  Delawares  et  de  Wyandots,  tombant  a  l'improviste 
sur  la  petite  colonie  de  Big  Bottom,  pres  de  Marietta,  tuent  12 
personnes  et  emmenent  4  prisonniers.2  La  nouvelle  arrive  vite 
a  Marietta,  ou  Ton  rappelle  les  colons  des  alentours,  pour  or- 
ganiser un  corps  de  defense  de  300  hommes.    Le  9  fevrier  1791, 


i  Pour  cette  partie  les  ouvrages  a  consulter  sont  The  American  Pioneer, 
A  Monthly  Periodical  devoted  to  the  objects  of  the  Logan  Historical  Society 
(2  vols.,  Cincinnati,  1842-1843).  On  y  trouve  quantite  de  relations 
originales,  de  souvenirs  recueillis  de  la  bouche  des  premiers  colons  et 
de  documents  de  premiere  main.  A  defaut  du  Pioneer,  les  Historical  Col- 
lections of  Ohio  par  Henry  Howe  (2  vols.;  1846  et  Cincinnati,  1907) 
fourniront  des  materiaux  du  meme  genre.  En  ce  qui  concerne  les  opera- 
tions militaires,  voir  The  Saint  Clair  Papers,  publies  par  W.  H.  Smith  (2 
vols.;  Cincinnati,  1882),  et  A.  Scott  Withers,  Chronicles  of  Border  War- 
fare (nouv.  ed.  par  R.  G.  Thwaites,  Cincinnati,  1912). 

2  Pioneer,  II,  108. 


1915]  Chinard:    Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  335 

une  troupe  d'Indiens  fait  une  attaque  contre  les  settlements  de 
la  riviere  Alleghany,  a  deux  milles  de  Pittsbourg,  et  enleve  un 
jeune  garcon  apres  avoir  tue  plusieurs  colons.3  Le  19  mars  le 
general  Scott  se  dirige  vers  les  villages  des  Kickapoos  avec  800 
Kentuckiens  a  cheval  et  detruit  des  approvisionnements.  Le  26 
mai,  un  parti  d'Indiens  enleve  un  homme  pres  de  Fort  Washing- 
ton (Cincinnati)  ;  et  Saint  Clair  commence  a  concentrer  ses 
troupes  dans  le  voisinage.  Le  31  juillet  le  general  Wilkinson 
commence  sa  campagne  contre  les  Indiens  du  Wabash  et  revient 
le  21  aux  rapides  de  l'Ohio  apres  avoir  pille  quelques  villages.4 
Le  18  septembre  1791  des  troupes  partent  de  Fort  Washington 
dans  la  direction  du  pays  des  Miamis ;  c  'est  le  commencement  de 
la  campagne  qui  devait  se  terminer  de  facon  tragique  par  l'ecrase- 
ment  de  Saint  Clair  le  4  novembre.5  Nous  n  'avons  pas  ici  a  f aire 
oeuvre  d'historien,  mais  encore  faut-il  tenir  compte  des  faits.  II 
aurait  ete  folie  de  la  part  de  Chateaubriand  de  s'aventurer  a 
l'ouest  de  Fort  Washington,  dans  une  contree  ou  les  Indiens 
etaient  en  pleine  revolte,  alors  qu'une  expedition  contre  eux  se 
preparait  et  que  les  communications  sur  le  bas  clu  fleuve  etaient 
tres  probablement  entierement  interrompues,  et  tres  certaine- 
ment  extremement  difficiles. 

Admettons  cependant  qu'il  ait  pu  passer;  lui  aurait-il  ete 
plus  facile  une  fois  arrive  an  Mississipi  de  continuer  son  voyage 
en  paix?  Sans  vouloir  entrer  ici  dans  le  detail  qu'il  me  soit 
permis  de.rappeler  qu'en  1788  des  troupes  espagnoles  avaient 
ete  envoyees  de  la  Louisiane  pour  fortifier  et  occuper  le  poste  de 
New  Madrid  avec  l'intention  declaree  de  controler  la  navigation 
du  fleuve  et  qu  'une  flotille  de  bateaux  avait  ete  mise  sur  le  fleuve 
pour  faire  des  patrouilles.6  Les  embarcations  qui  passaient  de- 
vaient  s'arreter,  subir  une  visite,  quelquefois  decharger  entiere- 
ment, montrer  leurs  papiers,  payer  des  taxes.  Tout  bateau  qui 
refusait  de  s'arreter  s'exposait  a  essuyer  le  feu  des  soldats  espag- 


s  Pioneer,  II,  43. 
4  Saint  Clair  Papers,  II,  225. 
s  Saint  Clair  Papers,  II,  244. 
s  Withers  Chronicles,  p.  104. 


336  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 

nols  et  a  voir  ses  marchandises  confisquees.  En  cette  meme  annee 
1791  les  difficultes  etaient  devenues  telles  que  Jefferson  avait 
demande  au  president  de  nommer  une  commission  pour  regler 
une  situation  qui  devenait  intolerable.  D'apres  les  rapports  du 
baron  Carondelet,  gouverneur  de  la  Louisiane,  voici  quels  etaient 
les  forts  le  long  du  fleuve  en  1794;  un  fort  a  New  Madrid,  a 
l'embouchure  de  l'Ohio,  aux  Ecores,  a  Margot,  a  Nosales;  une 
ville  fortifiee  aux  Natchez.  Toutes  ces  defenses  offraient  une 
facade  assez  imposante.  mais  sans  grande  solidite :  aux  Natchez 
en  particulier  le  fort  commandait  la  riviere  jusqu'a  un  mille  au 
dessus  et  deux  milles  au  dessous,  mais  par  derriere  aurait  pu 
etre  pris  par  une  douzaine  d 'homines.7  En  1791  le  gouverneur  de 
la  ville  etait  don  Gayos,  qui  nous  est  decrit  par  un  voyageur 
americain  comme  un  homme  d'une  apparence  majestueuse 
adoucie  par  les  manieres  les  plus  engageantes  et  les  plus  polies.8 

De  tout  cela  pas  un  mot  chez  Chateaubriand ;  il  semble  avoir 
passe  a  travers  tous  les  obstacles  sans  rien  voir,  sans  avoir  ete 
arrete  une  seule  fois,  sans  avoir  vu  sur  sa  route  ni  troupes  ameri- 
caines,  ni  soldats  espagnols.  ni  Indiens;  a  le  lire  il  semble  que 
Ton  voyage  dans  cette  contree  que  les  prospectus  des  campagnie 
d 'emigration  appelaient  le  Nouvel  Eden  et  non  dans  le  veritable 
Kentucky.  La  plupart  des  voyageurs  nous  affirment  cependant 
(pie  les  Franeais  semblaient  jouir  d'une  sorte  d'immunite  et  ne 
furent  guere  inquietes  par  les  sauvages;  il  n'en  n'est  pas  moins 
vrai  que  les  braves  guerriers  ne  songeaient  sans  doute  pas  tou- 
jours  a  s'enquerir  de  la  nationalite  des  voyageurs  avant  de  les 
arreter  on  meme  de  les  scalper.9 

Supposons  cependant  que  tous  les  obstacles  se  soient  aplanis 
devant  Chateaubriand,  comment  aurait-il  pu  effectuer  la  descente 


7  J.  A.  Eobertson,  Louisiana  under  the  rule  of  Spain  France  and  the 
United  States  (Cleveland,  Ohio,  1911),  pp.  293-343. 

8  John  Pope,  A  Tour  through  the  southern  and  western  territories  of 
North  America  (Richmond,  1792;  reimpression,  New  York,  1888). 

9  Dans  l'automne  de  1791,  M.  Antoimne,  un  bijoutier  ambulant,  part 
de  Gallipoli  dans  une  grande  pirogue  dirigee  par  deux  homines.  En  route 
il  est  rencontre  par  des  "sauvages"  ses  guides  l'abandonnent  et  il  se 
tue  pour  ne  pas  tomber  entre  les  mains  des  Indiens  (H.  Howe,  Historical 
Collections,  II,  566). 


1915]  CJiinard:    Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  337 

de  l'Ohio  et  du  Mississipi  et  une  fois  arrive  aux  Natchez  revenir 
vers  Philadelphie? 

On  voyait  quelquefois  des  voyageurs  aventureux  descendre 
l'Ohio,  seuls  dans  un  petit  bateau,  eomme  ce  general  frangais 
que  rencontre  Baily,  ou  eomme  le  vieux  colonel  Boon.  Mais 
Baily  voyage  en  1796,  a  un  moment  ou  le  pays  est  pacific.  Le 
plus  souvent,  surtout  quand  il  s'agissait  de  longs  voyages,  on 
descendait  dans  des  sortes  de  bateaux,  ou  plutot  de  radeaux,  qui 
n'avaient  guere  que  18  pouces  de  tirant  d'eau;  quelques-uns 
venaient  meme  des  Illinois  a  Pittsbourg  remontant  le  courant 
avec  une  dizaine  d'hommes  d 'equipage.10  De  tres  bonne  heure 
un  commerce  regulier  par  bateaux  entre  Pittsbourg  et  le  bas  du 
Mississipi  avait  ete  organise.11  Ces  mariniers,  ces  western  boat- 
men, etaient  une  race  assez  primitive  et  assez  rude.  On  trouvait 
chez  eux  des  aventuriers  de  toutes  les  nations.  En  1791  John 
Pope  descend  le  Mississipi  sur  un  bateau  dont  l'equipage  est  com- 
pose d'un  Allemand,  d'un  Kentuckien,  d'une  personne  nee  sur 
la  mer,  d'un  Virginien  et  d'un  Flamand.12  Ceux  qui  descendaient 
l'Ohio  poussaient  a  la  perche  toute  la  journee  pour  diriger  le 
bateau  dans  les  rapides  ou  dans  les  endroits  ou  le  courant  etait 
trop  lent.  lis  s'arretaient  la  unit  dans  quelque  maison  hos- 
pitaliere,  faisant  grande  chere,  et  ripaillant  a  plaisir.  absorbant 
d'enormes  quantites  de  whisky,  bousculant  les  femmes  et  les  en- 
fants,  engageant  des  luttes  epiques  a  coups  de  poing  contre  les 
riverains  et  les  equipages  d'autres  bateaux;  d'une  probite  scrupu- 
leuse,  en  ce  sens  qu'ils  respectaient  les  marchandises  et  les  valeurs 
qui  leur  etaient  confiees,  ils  pillaient  jardins,  vergers  et  poulaillers 
sur  leur  route  et  etaient  redoutes  au  point  que  les  honnetes  fer- 
miers  n'osaient  pas  s'etablir  sur  les  rives  du  fleuve.13 

Le  temps  mis  a  descendre  le  fleuve  de  cette  facon  etait  fort 
long;  il  fallait  en  general  de  quatre  a  six  mois  par  bateau  plat 
pour  arriver  a  la  Nouvelle-Orleans.     Michaux  fait  de  30  a  35 


10  Baily,  147. 

11  Pioneer,  II,  269. 

12  John  Pope,  ouvrage  cite. 
is  Pioneer,  II,  164. 


338 


University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 


milles  par  jour  en  moyenne  en  descendant  l'Ohio  avec  ses  traders 
qui  ont  des  bateaux  a  quille  beaucoup  plus  rapides.  Une  fois 
meme  il  fait  50  milles;  mais  il  lui  faut  quatorze  jours  pour 
descendre  de  Pittsbourg  a  Limestone.  En  defalquant  les  jours  ou 
il  est  arrete  par  la  glaee.  Baily  met  70  jours  pour  arriver  aux 
Natchez;  mais  de  rembouchure  de  l'Ohio  aux  Natchez  il  voyage 
avec  la  crue  du  printemps  et  de  facon  si  rapide  qu'un  skiff  a 
peine  a  suivre  le  bateau  plus  lourd  des  traders.  II  suffit  de  lire 
les  recits  nombreux  qui  nous  ont  ete  conserves  dans  le  Pioneer 
pour  voir  que  meme  dix  ou  quinze  annees  plus  tard  un  tel  voyage 
n'etajt  pas  considere  comme  une  simple  promenade.14  Imlay.  il 
est  vrai.  affirme  qu'il  etait  possible  de  descendre  a  la  Nouvelle- 
Orleans  en  un  mois;  mais  en  admettant  que  ce  renseignement  soit 
exact  il  s'agit  evidemment  de  la  duree  minima  dans  laquelle  un 
bateau  leger.  skiff  ou  pirogue,  pouvait  accomplir  le  trajet;  et  les 
conditions  meme  du  pays  qu'il  avait  a  traverser  interdisaient  a 
Chateaubriand  ce  genre  de  navigation. 

Quant  a  voyager  la  nuit  pour  abreger  le  trajet.  on  n'y  pouvait 
point  songer.  Les  bateliers  les  plus  presses  ne  se  hasardent  a  le 
faire  que  pendant  les  nuits  tres  claires  et  seulement  quand  ils  se 
servent  dim  raft.  II  aurait  ete  de  la  derniere  imprudence  de  se 
lancer  avec  un  bateau  a  quille  sur  un  fleuve  ou  partout  il  y  avait 
des  bancs  de  sable,  des  troncs  d'arbres  qui  affleuraient  a  peine  et 
pouvaient  eventrer  l'embarcation  poussee  contre  eux  par  la  force 
du  courant.15 

Supposons  eependant  une  fois  de  plus  que  Chateaubriand  ait 
pu  arriver  jusqu'aux  Natchez.  La  route  du  retour  n 'etait  guere 
plus  facile;  certainement.  elle  n'etait  pas  plus  courte.  En  fait, 
les  difficultes  etaient  telles  que  bien  des  voyageurs  preferaient 
s'embarquer  a  la  Nouvelle-Orleans  pour  Baltimore  ou  New  York, 
et  de  la  regagner  l'Ohio  par  terre.  D'autres  eependant  plus 
presses  choississaient  une  autre  route:  achetant  des  chevaux 
mexicains  a  bas  prix.  ils  formaient  des  sortes  de  caravanes  qui 
partaient  des  Natchez  et.  traversant  le  desert,  se  dirigeaient  vers 


n  Pioneer,  II,  89  et  suiv. 
is  Howe,  II,  568. 


1915]  Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  AmSrique 


339 


Nashville  et  Knoxville.16  C'etait  la  route  du  desert  "the  mad 
of  the  wilderness."  Le  pays  etait  infeste  de  brigands  cm  d'Indiens 
pillards,  et  les  fermiers  du  Kentucky  eux-memes  ne  voyageaient 
qu'en  groupes  fortement  armes.  Baily,  l'Anglais  que  nous  avons 
cite  en  plusieurs  endroits,  a  laisse  un  bien  lamentable  recit  des 
mesaventures  qu'il  eut  a  subir  des  Natchez  a  Nashville.17  Des 
le  depart,  la  petite  caravane  est  atteinte  de  la  malaria,  et  il  faut 
transporter  les  malades  sur  des  mules ;  pendant  la  nuit  les 
chevaux  s'echappent,  et  Ton  perd  un  temps  precieux  a  les  pour- 
suivre  dans  les  bois ;  des  Indiens  brandissant  des  scalps  enleves 
a  leurs  ennemis  dans  une  expedition  recente  font  la  conduite  aux 
malheureux  voyageurs;  et  bientot  c'est  le  desert  de  sable,  avec 
ses  maigres  arbrisseaux  et  a  de  longs  intervalles  des  mares 
boueuses  et  infectes,  "nasty,  dirty  puddles  of  water/'  dont  la 
decouverte  remplit  cependant  de  joie  les  voyageurs  mourant  de 
soif .  Parti  des  Natchez  le  8  juin,  Baily  n  'arrive  a  Nashville  que 
le  31  juillet.  Francois  Andre  Michaux  qui  voyage  en  1802,  nous 
confirme  ces  renseignements  sur  la  route  des  Natchez  a  Nash- 
ville.18 "Entre  les  deux  villes,"  nous  dit-il,  "s'etend  un  espace 
de  600  milles,  absolument  inhabite,  ce  qui  oblige  les  voyageurs  a 
transporter  toutes  leurs  provisions  a  dos  de  mulet.  II  y  a,  il  est 
vrai,  quelques  villages  de  Chicasaws  a  de  longs  intervalles,  mais 
on  ne  peut  compter  y  trouver  aucune  ressource.  De  Nashville 
a  Knoxville  les  difficultes  etaient  presque  aussi  grandes,  mais  le 
trajet  plus  court."  Baily  ne  met  que  huit  jours  et  demi  a  le 
parcourir.  Par  contre,  le  botaniste  Andre  Michaux  qui  voyage 
seul,  et  ne  s'arrete  que  le  temps  strictement  necessaire  pour 
laisser  reposer  son  cheval,  couvre  la  meme  distance  en  douze 
jours.19     C'est   a  lui   qu'il   faut   demander   des  renseignements 


is  Pioneer,  II,  141.  II  s'agit  d 'un  voyage  accompli  en  1805;  a,  cette 
date  encore  la  route  etait  tres  peu  sure  et  extremement  penible.  II  fallait 
compter  au  moins  un  mois  entre  les  Natchez  et  Nashville. 

i?  Baily,  p.  357-372. 

is  Voyage  a  I'ouest  des  Monts  Alleghanys,  dans  les  Etats  de  I'Ohio,  et 
du  Kentucky,  et  du  Tennessee,  et  retour  a  Charleston  par  les  Eautes- 
Carolines  (Paris,  1804). 

i'J  Andre  Michaux  est  le  pere  du  precedent;  son  journal  a  ete  publie 
seulement  de  nos  jours  dans  les  Proceedings  of  the  American  Philosophical 
Society  (Philadelphie),  XXVI   (1889),  145  et  suiv. 


340  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 

precis  sur  la  facon  cle  voyager  en  Amerique  aux  environs  de 
1790.  Pendant  plus  de  cinq  ans,  il  a  parcouru  clans  tous  les  sens 
les  regions  que  Chateaubriand  pretend  avoir  visitees,  tantct  seul, 
et  tantot  accompagne  d'un  guide  indien.  On  y  verra  comment, 
quand  on  voyage  avec  des  Indiens,  il  faut  "leur  remplir  le  ventre 
de  rhum"  pour  en  obtenir  quelque  service;  comment  il  faut 
s'arreter  plusieurs  jours  pour  permettre  aux  indigenes  de  se 
repaitre  et  de  digerer,  quand  on  a  tue  une  grosse  piece  de  gibier ; 
comment  les  chevaux  s'echappent,  on  sont  voles.  "Ces  voyages 
sont  effrayants  pour  ceux  qui  n'y  sont  pas  accoutumes,''  s 'eerie 
le  brave  Michaux,  "et  je  conseillerais  aux  Petits-Maitres  de  Lon- 
dres  ou  a  ceux  de  Paris,  s'il  y  en  a  encore  de  rester  chez  eux." 
Grace  an  journal  qu'il  nous  a  laisse,  j'ai  pu  reconstituer  les 
itineraires  de  Michaux ;  rarement  il  arrive  a  faire  plus  de  trente 
milles  par  jour;  sa  moyenne  quand  il  s'agit  d'un  long  trajet  est 
de  vingt  trois  milles,  et  Michaux  etait  un  rude  paysan  bauceron, 
done  d'une  energie  et  d'une  resistance  telles  que  ses  guides 
indiens  refusaient  de  le  suivre. 

Meme  si  nous  admettons  que  Chateaubriand  ne  s'est  pas 
arrete  un  seul  jour,  que  partout  il  a  creve  ses  chevaux  pour  ar- 
river,  alors  que  d'ailleurs  dans  cette  partie  de  son  voyage  rien 
ne  le  pressait,  et  qu'il  n'avait  en  fait  aucun  but,  je  ne  vois  pas 
comment  il  aurait  pu  couvrir  la  moitie  de  l'itineraire  qu'il  nous 
propose.  De  Pittsbourg  aux  Natchez,  on  ne  pouvait  pas  a  cette 
saison  mettre  moins  de  quarante  jours,  des  Natchez  a  Nashville 
cle  quinze  a  dix-huit  jours,  de  Nashville  a  Knoxville  huit  jours 
et  de  Knoxville  a  Philadelphie  trente  jours,  soit  un  minimum 
de  quatre-vingt  treize  jours.  Si  Chateaubriand  a  pu  partir  de 
Pittsbourg  au  commencement  cle  septembre,  il  disposait,  il  est 
vrai,  de  cent  dix  jours;  mais  il  ne  voyage  pas  en  homme  presse; 
il  s'egare  a  plusieurs  reprises,  il  etudie  en  route  des  mines  in- 
diennes;  il  cause  avec  le  vieux  missionnaire  du  Genie  du  Chris- 
tianisme,  il  prend  des  notes  et  s'occupe  peu  d'etablir  un  record. 
Meme  si  Ton  retranche  tous  les  episodes  du  voyage,  comme  la 
rencontre  des  deux  Floridiennes,  la  chasse  aux  dindons  sauvages 
et  bien  d'autres  encore,  il  reste  beaucoup  a  expliquer. 


1915]  Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  :;\\ 

II  reste  surtout  a  expliquer  pourquoi  Chateaubriand  a 'a  rien 
ajoute  a  Imlay.  II  a  pu  perdre  ses  notes  primitives,  dira-t-on, 
et  reconstituer  ensuite  tant  bien  que  mal  son  itineraire.  Qu'il 
ait  oublie  le  general  Saint  Clair,  et  les  Indiens  sur  le  sentier  de 
la  guerre,  et  le  gouverneur  des  Natchez,  passe  encore.  Mais  com- 
ment a-t-il  pu  oublier  qu'a  Marietta  depuis  plusieurs  annees 
etaient  etablis  un  nombre  considerable  de  Francais  qui  avaient 
ainsi  nomme  leur  ville  en  l'honneur  de  la  reine  Marie- Antoi- 
nette ?20  Comment  a-t-il  pu  ne  pas  voir  Gallipolis,  a  1 'embouchure 
de  la  Grande  Kanaway,  alors  que  plus  de  cinq  cents  Francais  y 
etaient  arrives  le  20  octobre  de  l'annee  precedente  et  avaient  im- 
mediatement  commence  a  y  batir  "une  ville  a  la  francaise?" 
Aurait-il  oublie  l'aspect  etrange  de  cette  colonie  de  Parisiens, 
autrefois  perruquiers,  friseurs,  doreurs,  et  carossiers,  brusque- 
ment  transformed  en  fermiers  et  se  battant  en  forcenes  la  cognee 
a  la  main,  contre  la  foret  envahissante  ?  N 'a-t-il  done  point  vu 
le  bon  docteur  Saugrain,  medecin,  aubergiste "  et  physicien ;  ne 
lui  a-t-on  pas  raconte  l'histoire  de  ces  deux  philosophes  francais 
qui  persuades  de  1 'innocence  des  enfants  de  la  nature  voulurent 
descendre  l'Ohio  en  eanot  mais,  pres  de  Big  Sandy,  furent  at- 
taques  a  coups  de  tomahawk  par  un  parti  d 'Indiens  et  perirent 
miserablement  ?21  Comment  un  Francais  qui  voyage  a  cette  date 
sur  l'Ohio  peut-il  oublier  cette  entreprise  lamentable  dont  Paris 
s'occupait  depuis  plusieurs  annees?  La  reponse  j'en  ai  peur  est 
bien  simple.      C'est  qu 'Imlay.   qui   est  la  source  principale  de 


2o  Je  ne  peux  donner  ici  une  bibliographie  complete  de  l'histoire  de 
la  colonie  du  Scioto.  M.  Carre  a  etudie  1  'interet  excite  a  Paris  par  les 
belles  promesses  de  Joel  Barlow  (Bevue  de  Paris,  15  mai,  1898),  mais  il 
faut  avoir  recours  aux  documents  publies  en  Amerique  pour  reconstituer 
1  'Odyssee  lamentable  des  pauvres  Francais  qui  avaient  mis  leurs  econo- 
mies dans  cette  aventure  assez  suspecte.  Pour  les  dates  voir  surtout' 
Howe,  I,  672,  et  Pioneer,  I,  94,  II,  182.  A  ce  dernier  endroit  on  trouvera 
une  lettre  ecrite  par  Waldevrard  de  Meulette,  un  survivant  des  premiers 
colons,  qui,  etant  donne  l'etat  du  pays,  avait  descendu  la  riviere  en  1791 
sur  un  des  bateaux  qui  transportaient  les  troupes  de  Saint  Clair.  Parmi 
les  voyageurs  francais  qui  ont  consacre  de  longues  pages  a  la  colonie  du 
Scioto  je  ne  citerai  que  Volney,  Tableau  du  climat  et  du  sol  des  Etats 
Unis  (Paris,  1803),  et  Perrin  du  Lac,  Voyage  dans  les  deux  Louisianes 
et  ches  les  nations  sauvages  du  Missouri,  .  .  .  en  1801,  1802  et  1803  (Paris, 
1805). 

2i  H.  M.  Brackenridge,  Recollections  of  Persons  and  Places,  in  the  West, 
(Philadelphia  1834),  p.  40  et  suiv. 


342 


University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 


Chateaubriand,  ne  parle  pas  et  pour  cause  de  la  colonie  du  Scioto. 
En  bonne  methode,  je  ne  vois  pas  que  Ton  puisse  desirer  de 
preuve  plus  concluante.  A  moins  de  supposer  que  Chateaubriand 
a  voyage  comme  ces  touristes  stupides  qui  s'efforcent  de  couvrir 
la  plus  grande  distance  possible,  il  faut  bien  se  resigner  a  ad- 
mettre  qu'il  n'a  pas  vu  l'en-haut  du  Mississipi,  qu'il  n'a  pas 
rencontre  le  vieux  missionnaire,  qu'il  n'a  pas  touche  aux  Natchez, 
et  qu'il  n'a  pas  risque  son  scalp  dans  des  regions  parcourues  par 
des  tribus  indiennes  en  revolte.  II  a  ete  soit  un  record-breaker, 
qui  a  voulu  faire  son  tour  d'Amerique  en  quatre-vingt  jours,  ou 
un  de  ces  explorateurs  un  pen  fantaisistes  dont  il  ne  faut  pas 
verifier  de  trop  pres  le  carnet  de  route.  J'avoue  que  j  'incline 
vers  cette  derniere  hypothese,  et  que  Chateaubriand  ne  m'en 
parait  pas  diminue;  il  a  heureusement  d'autres  titres  de  gloire 
et  ceux-la  sont  inattaquables. 


1915]  Chinard:  Chateaubriand  en  AmSrique  343 


VI 

CONCLUSION 

Je  ne  voudrais  pas  tirer  des  faits  que  j'ai  exposes  an  cours  de 
cette  etude  des  conclusions  trop  aventureuses  et  tomber  a  mon 
tour  dans  une  faute  que  j'ai  reprochee  a  d'autres  historiens  du 
voyage  en  Amerique.  II  y  a  cependant  quelques  constatations  qui 
s'imposent. 

Tout  d'abord  il  est  beaucoup  moins  certain  que  ne  l'a  pre- 
tendu  M.  Dick  que  Chateaubriand  ait  "pille"  Beltrami.  M.  Dick, 
qui  n  'est  pas  suspect  de  tendresse  a  1  'egard  de  Chateaubriand,  se 
demande  pourquoi  alors  que  la  Foreign  Review  de  1828  avait 
accuse  Chateaubriand  d 'avoir  effrontement  copie  Beltrami,  ce 
dernier  ne  s'est  point  fache  et  n'a  point  demande  justice.1  Bien 
loin  de  la,  on  trouve  qu'en  1834  Beltrami  fit  a  Chateaubriand 
l'hommage  de  son  nouvel  ouvrage  L'ltalia,  ossia  Scoperte  fatte 
dagli  Italiani  nelle  scienze,  nelle  lettere,  nelle  arti,  a  quoi  Chateau- 
briand repondit  par  une  lettre  des  plus  aimables.  "II  a  du 
intervenir  un  arrangement,  un  accommodement,"  conclut  M. 
Dick,  "Est-ce  que  Chateaubriand  acheta  le  silence  de  1'homme 
qu'il  avait  lese?  Est-ce  que  son  grand  nom  et  son  prestige  im- 
poserent  a  Beltrami?  Le  fait  est  que,  pour  le  coup,  il  sut  se 
tirer  d'embarras."  Et  plus  loin,  continuant  ses  insinuations 
malveillantes,  M.  Dick  voudrait  bien  nous  faire  croire  que  si 
1 'edition  francaise  de  l'ouvrage  de  Beltrami  qui  devait  paraitre 
en  1828,  n'a  jamais  paru,  ce  n'est  pas  que  le  libraire  avait  fait 
faillitte,  comme  le  dit  Beltrami  lui-meme,  mais  c'est  que  "il  y 
aurait  plutot  lieu  de  croire  que  Chateaubriand  lui-meme  est  in- 
tervenu  et  que  ce  fut  pour  menager  un  homme  illustre,  que  cette 
edition  francaise  ne  vit  pas  le  jour."2     La  verite  est  beaucoup 


1  Dick,  pp.  2-3. 

2  Je  dois  reconnaitre  que  M.  Dick  a  etudie  tout  le  Voyage,  et  non  point 
seulement  les  deux  chapitres  auxquels  nous  avons  borne  notre  analyse. 
Mais  s'il  est  certain  que  pour  la  derniere  partie  qui  traite  de  l'etat 
actuel  des  sauvages  de  1 'Amerique  Chateaubriand  s'est  servi  de  Beltrami. 


344  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 

plus  simple.  Le  critique  de  la  Foreign  Review  qui  venait  de  lire 
le  Voyage  en  Amerique  et  qui  lisait  le  Pilgrimage  du  voyageur 
italien  a  decouvert  eutre  les  deux  ouvrages  des  ressemblances  qui 
existent  certainement.  II  en  a  conclu  que  Chateaubriand,  qui 
cite  le  nom  de  Beltrami  dans  sa  preface,  avait  transports  clans  sa 
relation  une  partie  considerable  du  Pelerinage,  et  comme  il  ne 
connaissait  ni  Carver,  ni  Imlay.  cette  meprise  pent  s'excuser. 
Mais  on  peut  moins  excuser  un  critique  moderne  qui  sans  recher- 
cher  quelle  peut  etre  l'originalite  de  Beltrami  s'acharne  a  prouver 
que  Chateaubriand  a  ete  un  vulgaire  "plagiaire"  et  qu'il  a  de- 
liberement  fausse  la  date  de  composition  du  second  livre  des 
Memoires  d'Outre-Tombt . 

II  n'est  point  besoin  d'aller  chercher  des  combinaisons  aussi 
noires  pour  tout  expliquer.  Si  Beltrami  n'a  pas  proteste  energi- 
quement  contre  les  emprunts  que  lui  a  fait  Chateaubriand,  c'est 
que  ces  emprunts  n'etaient  ni  si  nombreux  ni  si  importants  que 
vent  bien  le  dire  M.  Dick.  Tons  deux  d'ailleurs  ont  les  memes 
sources :  a  savoir  Charlevoix,  Lafitau,  Carver  et  Imlay,  sans  comp- 
ter ceux  qui  ont  pu  m'echapper.  Si  dans  la  description  des 
Grands  Lacs,  de  l'Ohio  et  du  Mississipi  on  trouve  quelques 
analogies  avec  le  texte  de  Beltrami,  il  n'en  reste  pas  moins  que. 
dans  1 'ensemble,  cette  partie  du  Voyage  repose  sur  des  ouvrages 
publies  avant  1800.  Rien  ne  vient  done  nous  prouver  que  c'est 
au  dernier  moment  et  pour  confirmer  1 'impression  que  ses  autres 
ouvrages  avaient  pu  ereer  que  Chateaubriand  s'est  mis  a  etudier 
la  geographic  des  Terres  de  I'Ouest. 

II  est  cependant  a  pen  pres  certain  que  Chateaubriand  n'a 
pas  descendu  le  cours  de  TOhio  et  a  plus  forte  raison  celui  du 
Mississipi.  S'il  n'a  parle  ni  de  Marietta,  ni  de  Gallipolis.  ni  de 
1 'expedition  de  Saint  Clair,  c'est  que  les  ouvrages  dont  il  s'est 
servi  pour  ecrire  ces  descriptions  des  Terres  de  I'Ouest  n'en 
faisaient  pas  mention.    Or  il  se  trouve  que  tous  les  voyageurs  qui 


ee  qu'il  reeonnait  du  reste,  il  ne  s'ensuit  pas  qu'il  ne  se  soit  servi  que 
du  seul  Beltrami,  ni  nierne  que  Beltrami  soit  toujours  original.  Quand 
on  aura  prouve  que  Beltrami  ne  se  sert  ni  de  Charlevoix,  ni  de  Carver,  ni 
d 'Imlay,  ni  de  le  Page  du  Pratz,  ni  surtout  de  Perrin  du  Lac,  je  serai 
pres  a'  reconnaitre  la  dette  de  Chateaubriand  a  son  egard,  mais  pas 
avant. 


1915]  Chinard:    Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  :;4." 

descendent  l'Ohio  apres  1790,  qu'il  soient  franeais  ou  anglais, 
qu'ils  s'appellent  Baily,  Volney  ou  Perrin  du  Lac.  out  consacre 
an  moins  line  mention  a  la  revolte  des  Indians  de  l'ouest  et  quel- 
quefois  des  chapitres  entiers  aux  colons  franeais  de  l'Ohio.  II 
est  done  probable  que,  pour  cette  partie  de  son  voyage  au  moins, 
Chateaubriand  n'a  fait  que  rediger  de  vieilles  notes,  sans  se 
mettre  en  peine  d'en  verifier  1 'exactitude.  Au  moment  ou.  a 
Londres,  il  preparait  les  Natchez  et  Atala,  il  a  voulu  se  docu- 
menter  aussi  exactement  que  possible  sur  les  pays  ou  devaient  se 
derouler  ses  poemes,  et  vingt-cinq  ans  plus  tard  il  a  utilise  dans 
le  Voyage  les  fonds  de  tiroir,  les  notes  hatives,  les  descriptions 
qui  n'avaient  pas  trouve  place  dans  ses  ouvrages  anterieurs.  II 
est  difficile  aujourd'hui  de  considerer  Chateaubriand  comme  un 
voyageur  sur  qui  Ton  puisse  faire  fond,  et  a  qui  les  historiens 
puissent  s'adresser  pour  des  renseignements  de  premiere  main. 
Nous  n'essaierons  pas  de  le  defendre  sur  ce  point.  Ce  n'est  pas 
a  travers  le  continent  de  1 'Amerique  que  Chateaubriand  a  ac- 
compli la  plus  grande  partie  de  son  voyage,  mais  bien  dans  les 
livres  de  ses  predecesseurs.  A-t-il  vraiment  cru  plus  tard  qu'il 
avait  vu  tons  les  pays  qu'il  decrivait ;  est-ee  volontairement  et 
sciemment  qu'il  a  cree  et  entretenu  une  illusion  qui  lui  etait  si 
avantageuse,  e'est  ce  que  je  ne  voudrais  pas  entreprendre  de 
demeler  ici,  et  je  ne  pense  pas  qu'en  bonne  justice  nous  ayons  le 
droit  de  le  faire.3 

II  reste  en  effet  plus  d'un  point  obscur  dans  toutes  les  critiques 
que  Ton  a  pu  faire  de  l'itineraire  de  Chateaubriand.  II  reste  en 
particulier  a  trouver  un  alibi  a  l'auteur  d' Atala.  S'il  n'a  pas 
pousse  plus  loin  que  le  Niagara,  il  a  cependant  du  employer  a 
quelque  chose  le  temps  qui  lui  restait  avant  le  10  decembre.  date 
de  son  embarquement  pour  la  France.  C'est  dans  cette  direction 
que  doivent  maintenant  etre  poussees  les  recherches  de  ceux  qui 
voudront  faire  la  lumiere  complete  sur  une  question  peut-etre 
deja  trop  discutee.     Si  inconnu  qu'il  fut  a  cette  date,  Chateau- 


3  Je  me  propose  d  'etudier  dans  un  livre  qui  paraitra  prochainement  le 
caractere  de  l'exotisme  de  Chateaubriand;  j'y  montrerai  en  detail  com- 
ment il  s'est  documente  dans  les  bibliotheques  de  Paris  et  d 'Angleterre, 
et  quels  souvenirs  precis  il  a  rapportes  de  son  voyage. 


346  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.  4 

briand  a  pu  laisser  des  traces  de  son  passage;  on  le  trouvera 
peut-etre  nn  jour  mentionne  dans  quelque  correspondance 
d 'emigre,  dans  un  journal  de  colon  conserve  dans  les  archives 
d'une  societe  historique  de  quelque  petite  ville  de  la  Nouvelle- 
Angleterre  ou  du  Canada.  D'ici  la,  il  sera  sage  de  se  garder  a 
la  fois  des  affirmations  trop  hardies  et  des  hypotheses  trop  sedui- 
santes. 


1915]  Chinard:   Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  347 


OUVRAGES  CITES 

American  Pioneer  (The). 

A  Monthly  Periodical  devoted  to  the  objects  of  the  Logan  Historical 
Society.     2  vols.     Cincinnati,  1842-1843. 
Armstrong,  Emma  Kate. 

Chateaubriand's  America.     Publications  of  the  Modern  Language  As- 
sociation of  America,  xxii  (1907),  345. 
Baily,  Francis. 

Journal  of  a  Tour  in  Unsettled  parts  of  North   America,  in   1796   & 
1797.     London,  1856. 
Barbery,  Mme.  de. 

Elisabeth    Seton    et    les    commencements    de    l'Eglise    Catholique    aux 
Etats-Unis.     4me  edition.     Paris,  s.d. 
Bartram,  William. 

Voyage    dans   les   parties    sud    de    1 'Amerique    Septentrionale.      Trad, 
francaise.     Paris^,  1799. 
Beaunier,  Andre. 

Chateaubriand.     2  vols.     Paris,  1912. 
Bedier,  Joseph. 

Chateaubriand  en   Amerique:    verite  et   fiction.     Revue  d'histoire  lit- 
teraire  de  la  France,  VI  (1899),  502  et  VII  (1900),  59. 
Bedier,  Joseph. 

Etudes  critiques.    Paris,  1903. 
Beltrami,  Giacomo  Constantino. 

La  decouverte  des  sources  du  Mississippi  et  de  la  riviere  Sanglante. 
Nouvelle  Orleans,  1824. 
Bertrin,  G. 

Sainte-Beuve  et  Chateaubriand.     Paris,  1906. 
Bourne,  E.  G. 

The   Travels   of   Jonathan    Carver.      American    Historical    Review,    xi 
(Janvier,  1906),  287-302. 
Brackenridge,  H.  M. 

Recollections  of  Persons  and  Places  in  the  West.     Philadelphia,  1834. 
Carre,  H. 

Les  emigres  franqais  en  Amerique:   1798-1793.     Revue  de  Paris,  mai 
1898. 
Carver,  Jonathan. 

Voyage    dans    les    parties    interieures    de    1 'Amerique    septentrionale. 
Trad,  franchise,  Paris,  1784. 
Charlevoix. 

Histoire  et  description  generale  de  la  Nouvelle  France.  Avec  le 
Journal  historique  d'un  Voyage  fait  par  ordre  du  roi  dans 
l'Amerique  septentrionale.     3  vols.     Paris,  1744. 


348  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology       [Vol.4 

Chateaubriand,  F.  B. 

Essai  sur  les  Bevolutions.     2  vols.     Paris,  1827. 

Voyage  en  Amerique.     Paris,  1827. 

Memoires  d'Outre-Tombe,  ed.  Bire.     6  vols.    Paris,  s.d. 
Chinard,  Gilbert. 

Une   nouvelle   source   d'Atala.     Modern   language   Notes,   xxv    (1910), 
137. 

Un    Bordelais    dans    la    Nouvelle-Angleterre.      Bevue    philomathique    de 
Bordeaux  et  du  Sud-Ouest,  xii   (juillet  1910). 

Xotes  sur  le  Prologue  d'Atala.     Modern  Philology,  xiii  (1915),  157. 
Cutler,  Manasseh. 

Life,  Journals,  and  Correspondence  of.     2  vols.     Cincinnati,  1888. 
Dick,  E. 

Plagiats   de   Chateaubriand.     Berne,   1907. 

Quelques    sources   ignorees    de    Chateaubriand.      Kevue    d'histoire    lit- 
teraire  de  la  France,  xiii   (1906),  22 
Ducrest,  de  Villeneuve. 

Le  Grand-Bey.     Saint  Malo,  1850. 
Feugeres,  M.  A. 

Les  Indiennes  de  Chateaubriand.     Mercure  de  France,  15  juillet,  1908. 
Giraud,  V. 

Nouvelles  etudes  sur  Chateaubriand.     Paris,  1912. 
Howe,  Henry. 

Historical  Collections  of  Ohio.     2   vols.     Cincinnati,  1846  et  1907. 
Hulbert,  Archer  Butler. 

Historic  Highways  of  America.     16  vols.     Cleveland,  1902-1905.     Vol. 
2,  Indian  Thoroughfares;  vols.  11  et  12,  Pioneer  roads. 
Imlay,  G. 

Topographic  Description  of  the  Western  Territory  of  North  America. 
London,  1792  et  1797. 
Lee.  T.  John. 

Bibliography    of    Carver's    Travels.      Proceedings    of    the    Historical 
Society  of  Wisconsin,  xlv  (1909),  143. 
Le  Page  du  Pratz. 

Histoire  de  la  Louisiane.     2  vols.     Paris,  1754. 
Martino,  P. 

A  propos  du  Voyage  en  Amerique  de  Chateaubriand.     Bevue  d'histoire 
litteraire  de  la  France,  xvi  (1909),  429. 
Michaux,  Andre. 

Proceedings    of    the    American    Philosophical    Society.      Philadelphia, 
xxvi  (1889),  145. 
Michaux,  Francois-Andre. 

Voyage  a  l'ouest  des  Monts  Alleghanys.     Paris,  1804. 
Perrin  du  Lac. 

Voyage  dans  les  deux  Louisianes  et  chez  les  nations  sauvages.     Paris, 
1805. 


1915]  Chinard:    Chateaubriand  en  Amerique  349 

Pope,  John. 

A    Tour    through    the    Southern    and    Western    Territory.      Richmond, 
1798;  reimpression,  New  York,  1888. 
Robertson,  J.  A. 

Louisiana    under   the  rule   of   Spain,   France,   and   the   United    States. 
Cleveland,  1911. 
Smith,  W.  H. 

The  Saint  Clair  Papers.     2  vols.     Cincinnati,  1882. 
Souriau,  M. 

Les  idees  morales  de  Chateaubriand.     Paris,  1909. 
Stathers,  Madison. 

Chateaubriand   et  1 'Amerique.     Grenoble,   1905. 
Stone,  William  L. 

Life  of  Joseph   Brant-Thayendanegea.     New  York,  1838. 
Volney. 

Tableau  du  climat  et  du  sol  des  Etats-Unis.     Paris,  1803. 
Weld,  Isaac. 

Travels  through  the  States  of  America,     3me  edition;  2  vols.  London, 
1800. 
Withers,  A.  Scott. 

Chronicles  of  Border  Warfare.     Nouv.  ed.  par  R.  G.  Thwaites.     Cin- 
cinnati, 1912. 


UNIVERSITY  OP  CALIFORNIA  PUBLICATIONS— (Continued) 

6.  The  Priests  of  Asklepios,  a  New  Method  of  Dating  Athenian  Archons, 
by  William  Scott  Ferguson.  Pp.  131-173.  April  14,  1906  (reprinted 
September,  1907)   , „ j      .50 

6.  Horace's  Alcaic  Strophe,  by  Leon  Josiah  Richardson.  Pp.  175-201. 
March,  1907  ~ _ 25 

7.  Some  Phases  of  the  Relation  of  Thought  to  Verse  in  Plautus,  by  Henry 
Washington  Prescott.    Pp.  205-262.     June,  1907 50 

Index,  pp.  263-270. 

Vol.  2.  1.  Some  Textual  Criticisms  on  the  Eighth  Book  of  the  De  Vita  Caesarum 
of  Suetonius,  by  William  Hardy  Alexander.  Pp.  1-33.  November, 
1908    ™ 30 


2.  Cicero's  Knowledge  of  Lucretius 's  Poem,  by  William  A.  Merrill.    Pp. 

35-42.    September,  1909  _ _ 

3.  The  Conspiracy  at  Rome  in  66-65  B.  C,  by  H.  C.  Nucting.    January, 

1910    „ 

4.  On  the  Contracted  Genitive  in  I  in  Latin,  by  William  A.  Merrill.    Pp. 

57-79.    February,  1910 „ 

5.  Epaphos  and  the  Egyptian  Apis,  by  Ivan  M.  Linforth.     Pp.  81-92. 

August,  1910 „. „.. 


.10 
.10 
.25 

.10 

6.  Studies  in  the  Text  of  Lucretius,  by  William  A.  Merrill.    Pp.  93-149. 

June,  1911   „ „ 60 

7.  The  Separation  of  the  Attributive  Adjective  from  its  Substantive  in 

Plautus,  by  Winthrop  L.  Keep.    Pp.  151-164.    June,  1911 15 

8.  The    'Oapiorv's     of  Theocritus,  by  Edward  B.  Clapp.     Pp.  165-171. 

October,   1911   „ _ „ 15 

9.  Notes  on  the  Text  of  the  Corpus  Tibullianum,  by  Monroe  E.  Dsutsch. 

Pp.  173-226.  June,  1912  - 60 

10.  The  Archetype  of  Lucretius,   by  William  A.  Merrill.     Pp.  227-235. 

November,  1913  10 

11.  Corruption  in  the  Manuscripts  of  Lucretius,  by  William  A.  Merrill. 

Pp.  237-253.     August,  1914  15 

12.  Proposed  Emendations  of  Lucretius,  by  William  A.  Merrill.    Pp.  255- 

256.    December,  1914 05 

13.  Greek  and  Latin  Glyconics,  by  Leon  Josiah  Richardson.    Pp.  257-265. 

September,  1915  10 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  PUBLICATIONS. 

Note. — The  UniverHity  of  California  Publications  are  offered  in  exchange  for  the  pub 
cations  of  learned  societies  and  institutions,  universities,  and  libraries.  Complete  lists 
all  the  publications  of  the  University  will  be  sent  upon  request.  For  sample  copies,  lis 
of  publications  or  other  information,  address  the  MANAGER  OF  THE  UNIVERSI1 
PRESS,  BERKELEY,  CALIFORNIA,  U.  S.  A.  All  matter  sent  in  exchange  should  ' 
addressed  to  THE  EXCHANGE  DEPARTMENT,  UNIVERSITY  LIBRARY,  BERK15LE 
CALIFORNIA,  U.  S.  A. 

Cited  as  Univ.  Calif.  Publ.  Class.  Philol. 

MODERN  PHILOLOGY.— Charles  M.  Gayley,  Hugo  K.  Schilling  and  Rudolph  SchevJ 
Editors.    Price  per  volume,  $3.50. 

Vol.  1.    1.  Der  Junge  Goethe  und  das  Publikum,  von  W.  R.  R.  Pinger.    Pp.  1-67. 

May,    1909    .._ „ $0.  i 

2.  Studies  in  the  Marvellous,  by  Benjamin  P.  Kurtz.    Pp.  69-244.    March, 

1910    2i 

3.  Introduction  to  the  Philosophy  of  Art,  by  Arthur  Weiss.  Pp.  245-302. 

January,   1910   ,  1 

4.  The  Old  English  Christian  Epic:  a  Study  in  the  Plot- technique  of  the 

Juliana,  the  Elene,  the  Andreas,  and  the  Christ,  in  Comparison  with 
the  Beowulf  and  with  the  Latin  Literature  of  the  Middle  Ages,  by 

George  Arnold  Smithson.    Pp.  303-400.    September,  1910  1) 

Vol.  2.    1.  Wilhelm  Busch  als  Dichter,  Kiinstler,  Psychologe,  und  Philosoph,  von 

Fritz  Winther.    Pp.  1-79.    September,  1910  „       |j 

2.  The   Critics   of  Edmund   Spenser,   by  Herbert  E.   Cory.     Pp.   81-182. 

June,   1911   1 d 

3.  Some  Forms  of  the  Riddle  Question  and  the  Exercise  of  the  Wits  in 

Popular  Fiction  and  Formal  Literature,  by  Rudolph  Schevill.    Pp. 
183-237.     November,   1911  0 

4.  Histrionics  in  the  Dramas  of  Franz  Grillparzer,  by  Elizabeth  A.  Herr- 

mann.    Pp.  239-309.     June,  1912  .... 5 

5.  Spenser,  the  School  of  the  Fletchers,  and  Milton,  by  Herbert  E.  Cory. 

Pp.  311-373.     June,  1912  5 

Vol.  3.    1.  Rousseaus  Einfiuss  auf  Klinger,  von  Fredrich  A.  Wyneken.    Pp.  1-85. 

September,   1912   1 4 

2.  Das  Gerettete  Venedig,  Eine  vergleichende  Studie,  von  Fritz  Winther.    - 

Pp.  87-246.    February,  1914  MO 

3.  A  Neglected  Aspect  of  the  English  Romantic  Revolt,  by  G.  F.  Richard- 

son.   Pp.  247-360.    May,  1915  :K) 

Vol.  4.    1.  Ovid  and  the  Renascence  in  Spain,  by  Rudolph  Schevill.     Pp.  1-268. 

November,  1913  i  >0 

2.  Notes  sur  le  Voyage  de  Chateaubriand  en  Am6rique  (Juillet-Decembre, 

1791),  par  Gilbert  Chinard.    Pp.  269-349.    November,  1915  8) 

3.  Du  Transcendantalisme  considere  dans  sa  Definition  et  dans  ses  Origines 

Franchises,  par  William  Girard.    Pp.  351-498.     October,  1916 50 

CLASSICAL  PHILOLOGY.— Edward  B.  Clapp,  William  A.  Merrill,  Herbert  C.  Nuttg, 
Editors.    Price  per  volume  $2.50. 
Vol.  1.    1.  Hiatus  in  Greek  Melic  Poetry,  by  Edward  Bull  Clapp.    Pp.  1-34.    June, 

1904 $50 

2.  Studies  in  the  Si-Clause.    I.  Concessive  Si-Clauses  in  Plautus.    II.  Sub- 

junctive Protasis  and  Indicative  Apodosis  in  Plautus.    By  Herbert  C.     ; 
Nutting.     Pp.  35-94.     January,  1905 _ 30 

3.  The  Whence  and  Whither  of  the  Modern  Science  of  Language,  by  Benj. 

Ide  Wheeler.    Pp.  95109.    May,  1905 25 

4.  On  the  Relation  of  Horace  to  Lucretius,  by  William  A.  Merrill.     Pp. 

111-129.     October,  1905 25 

5.  The  Priests  of  Asklepios,  a  New  Method  of  Dating  Athenian  Archons, 

by  William  Scott  Ferguson.    Pp.  131-173.    April  14,  1906  (reprinted     I 
September,  1907)    50 

6.  Horace's  Alcaic  Strophe,  by  Leon  Josiah  Richardson.     Pp.  175-201. 

March,  1907  , ~.    25 

7.  Some  Phases  of  the  Relation  of  Thought  to  Verse  in  Plautus,  by  Henry 

Washington  Prescott.     Pp.  205-262.     June,  1907 50 

Index,  pp.  263-270. 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA   PUBLICATIONS 

IN 

MODERN    PHILOLOGY 

Vol.  4,  No.  3,  pp.  351-498 


October  18,  1916 


DU  TRANSCENDANTALISME  CONSIDERE 
ESSENTIELLEMENT  DANS  SA  DEFINI- 
TION ET  SES  ORIGINES  FRANQAISES 


PAR 

WILLIAM  GIRAED 


Table  des  Matieres 

PAGE 

Preface    353 

Introduction    359 

PREMIERE  PARTIE 

DU   TRANSCENDANTALISME   CONSIDERE   SOUS   SON  ASPECT  RELIGIEUX 

Chapitre  I.     Caracteres  generaux  du  transcendantalisme  381 

Chapitre  II.    Definition  du  transcendantalisme  considere  sous  son  aspect 

religieux  387 

Chapitre  III.     Des  origines  franchises  du  transcendantalisme  considere 

sous  son  aspect  religieux  392 

1.  Remarques  preliminaires  392 

2.  De  quelques  difncultes  qu'il  convient  d'ecarter  394 

3.  Que  penser  des  origines  allemandes  du  transcendantalisme?  396 

4.  De  1  'influence  exercee  par  Coleridge  et  Carlylc  sur  la  formation 

du  transcendantalisme  404 

5.  Observations  generales  sur  les  origines  franchises  du  transeen 

dantalisme  consi<lere  sous  son  aspect  religieux  411 

6.  Mine,  de  Stael  et  les  transcendantalistes  •■  41.'! 

7.  Benjamin  Constant  et  les  transcendantalistes  420 


352  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology      [Vol.4 

DEUXIEME  PARTIE 

DU  TRANSCENDANTALISME   CONSIDERE   SOUS   SON   ASPECT  PHILOSOPHIQUE 

PAGE 

Chapitre  I.     Definition  <lu  transeendantalisme  considere  sous  son  aspect 

philosophique  430 

1.  Remarques  preliminaires 431 

2.  Definition    du    transeendantalisme    considere    sous    son    aspect 

philosophique  433 

Chapitre  II.     Des  origines  franchises  du  transeendantalisme  considere 

sous  son  aspect  philosophique 439 

1.  Les  idealistes  allemands  et  la  doctrine  philosophique  des  trans- 

cendantalistes  430 

2.  La  philosophie  ecossaise  et  le  transeendantalisme  444 

3.  J.  M.  de  Gerando  et  les  transcendantalistes  447 

4.  L 'ecleetisme  frangais  et  le  transeendantalisme: 

(a)  De  quelques  preeurseurs  de  1 'ecleetisme  franc,ais  456 

(b)  Victor  Cousin  et  la  philosophie  ecossaise  462 

(c)  Victor  Cousin  et  la  philosophie  allemande 465 

(d)  Victor  Cousin  et  les  transcendantalistes 470 

(e)  Theodore  Jouffroy  et  les  transcendantalistes 483 

Ouvrages  consultes 493 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalismt  353 


PREFACE 

II  pent  paraitre  singulier  qu'en  notre  qualite  de  merabre  d'une 
faculte  dont  les  travaux  sont  dus  a  la  culture  des  lettres,  nous 
nous  soyons  autorise  a  choisir  comme  sujet  de  nos  rechercbes, 
l'etude  d'un  mouvement  de  pensee  dont  les  causes  essentielles  et 
les  effets  les  plus  immediats  tiennent  plus  du  domaine  de  la 
philosophic  que  de  celui  de  la  litterature.  Nous  devons  aux 
rares  lecteurs  que  ces  pages  occuperont  non  des  excuses,  qu'ils 
auraient  tort  d 'accepter,  mais  des  explications.  Si  le  transcen- 
dantalisme  n'avait  etc  qu'une  expression  mal  definie  du  senti- 
ment religieux,  qu'une  des  formes  multiples  de  la  philosopbie, 
qu'une  tentative,  aussi,  de  reforme  sociale,  ce  serait  l'affaire  du 
psychologue  et  du  metaphysicien,  du  moraliste  et  de  1  'economiste, 
d'en  rechercher  le  sens  et  la  destination.  Comme  il  etait  tout 
cela  et  quelque  chose  de  plus,  ayant  ete  la  rehabilitation  d'un 
spiritualisme  destine  a,  penetrer  toutes  les  spheres  de  l'activite 
humaine,  il  ne  pouvait  manquer  de  donner  occasion  a  une  lit- 
terature dont  la  philosopbie  n'est  qu'un  des  elements  qui 
la  composent.  La  Nouvelle-Angleterre  n'eut-elle  point  possede 
des  habitudes  et  des  traditions  marquees  fortement  de  l'empreinte 
qu'y  avait  laissee  le  calvinisme  des  premiers  puritains,  que  le 
spiritualisme  qu'on  y  vit  renaitre  durant  la  premiere  moitie  du 
19me  siecle  sous  la  forme  du  transcendantalisme,  11'eiit  pas 
manque  d'y  revetir  le  caractere  qu'en  Europe  lui  preta  le 
romantisme.  L'etat  d'ame  cree  d'un  bout  du  monde  a  1 'autre 
par  les  bouleversements  politiques  et  sociaux  auxquels  avaient 
conduit  deux  grandes  revolutions,  avait  developpe  un  indivi- 
dualisme  decide  a  ignorer  une  fois  pour  toutes  des  regies  et  des 
method es  grace  auxquelles  la  philosopbie  et  ]a  litterature  se  re- 
fusaient  a  connaitre  en  Dieu  autre  chose  qu'une  entite  meta- 
physique,  ne  voulaient  voir  dans  l'homme  qu'une  intelligence 
servie  par  des  organes,  dans  la  societe  que  des  groupements 
necessaires  bien  definis  et  definitifs  que  le  despotisme  des  grands 
et  1 'ignorance  des  foules  etaient  destines  a  maintenir. 


354  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

Lorsque  sous  1 'influence  des  lumieres  que  la  science  vint 
repandre  dans  le  monde  des  choses  d'ordre  physique,  on  se  prit 
a  douter  de  l'authenticite  historique  de  passages  bibliques  tenus 
depuis  quinze  siecles  pour  1  'expression  exacte  du  verbe  divin ; 
lorsque  le  scepticisme  anglais  du  18me  siecle,  sous  les  formes  que 
lui  donnerent  les  philosophes  francais,  eut  porte  tous  ses  fruits ; 
lorsqu'on  s'apereut  que  les  voies  tracees  par  le  rationalisme 
aboutissaient  tot  on  tard  a  celles  du  materialisme,  et  que  les  lines 
et  les  autres  conduisaient  aux  abimes ;  lorsqu  'on  vit  que  le  dogme 
ecclesiastique  et  le  culte  de  la  raison  s'etaient  faits  les  soutiens, 
dans  l'eglise  et  dans  la  societe,  d'un  formalisme  dont  on  ne  com- 
prenait  plus  le  sens  et  d'un  despotisme  dont  on  ne  voyait  plus  la 
necessite,  comme  on  ne  pouvait  se  passer  de  religion,  non  plus 
que  d 'ideal  et  de  liberte,  on  tenta  de  retrouver  dans  le  chris- 
tianisme  la  satisfaction  de  ces  besoins  religieux,  dans  le  neo- 
platonisme  un  fondement  philosophique  aux  nouvelles  croyances, 
dans  une  reorganisation  de  la  societe  d'apres  des  principes  de 
justice  et  d'humanite,  la  realisation  d'une  parfaite  democratic 
Et  c'est  ainsi  qu'apres  les  revolutions  d'Amerique  et  de  France 
nous  voyons  se  constituer,  en  Europe  et  aux  Etats-Units,  une 
philosophic  et  une  litterature  dont  les  caracteres  essentiels, 
savoir:  l'idealisme,  le  spiritualisme  et  l'humanisme,  presentent 
partout  de  grandes  analogies,  dont  les  caracteres  secondares :  le 
romantisme,  le  "lakisme"  et  le  transcendantalisme,  par  exemple, 
se  trouvent  determines  par  de  certaines  habitudes  et  de  certaines 
traditions  que  des  differences  de  race  et  de  genie,  non  seulement 
expliquent,  mais  rendent  ineluctables. 

L 'ideal  religieux  de  l'Eglise  primitive,  la  philosophic  ideal- 
iste  et  la  deification  de  l'humanite  out  si  bien  penetre  dans  tous 
les  domaines  de  la  litterature  a  partir  de  la  fin  du  18me  siecle, 
qu'on  ne  voit  pas  toil  jours  ou  commence  l'ceuvre  du  poete  et  du 
litterateur,  ou  fiiiit  celle  du  philosophe  ou  du  sociologue,  et  les 
cas  sont  nombreux  de  grands  penseurs  que  leur  esprit  curieux 
et  leur  ame  inquiete  poussaient  dans  tous  les  domaines  a  la  fois. 
L  'exemple,  du  reste,  venait  de  loin,  puisque  l'auteur  du  Discours 
sur  les  hit  res  et  les  arts  et  de  la  Nouvelle  Heloise,  ecrivit  egale- 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalismt  :;:,.- 

nient  la  Profession  de  foi  du  vicain  Savoyard,  les  Lettres  <l<  hi 
montagne  et  le  Contrat  social.  S'il  n'est  pas  difficile  de  signaler 
1'influence  de  Rousseau  sur  des  philosophes  tels  que  Kan1  e1 
surtout  Jaeobi,  sur  des  poetes  tels  que  Herder  et  Goethe,  sm-  des 
ecrivains  tels  que  Chateaubriand  et  Madame  de  Stael,  ce  sera  it, 
certes,  eommettre  une  erreur  de  jugement  que  de  supposer  que 
ces  philosophes,  ces  poetes  et  ces  ecrivains  se  seraient  engages 
dans  une  voie  differente  de  celle  qu'ils  ont  suivie,  s'ils  n'avaicnl 
point  connu  les  ouvrages  du  Citoyen  de  Geneve.  En  donnant 
une  forme  bien  definie  et  souvent  magnifique  aux  choses  qu'ils 
ont  pensees  on  senties,  ils  n'ont  fait  qu'exprimer  la  pensee,  le 
sentiment  et  le  reve  des  homines  qui,  de  leur  temps  ou  plus  tard, 
ayant  meme  etat  d'ame,  reconnurent  en  eux  les  prophetes  qu'ils 
se  plurent  a  ecouter.  Nous  pouvons  dire  de  meme,  que  si  les 
transcendantalistes  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  ont  trouve  en 
Allemagne,  en  France,  en  Angleterre  ou  ailleurs,  une  philosophic 
et  une  litterature  auxquelles  ils  ont  puise  des  materiaux  des- 
tines a  1 'edification  de  l'oeuvre  morale,  sociale,  voire  litteraire, 
qu'ils  se  proposaient  d'accomplir,  ils  n'ont  pas  moins  concu  eux- 
memes  le  plan  de  l'entreprise  qu'ils  avaient  a  coeur  de  mener  a 
bonne  fin. 

Ce  besom  d'en  finir  avec  im  long  passe  de  routines  surannees, 
d 'imitations  serviles,  de  soumission  aveugle  a  des  autorites  qu'on 
ne  s'etait  pas  choisies ;  ce  besoin  de  laisser  a  tout  homme  le  droit 
de  chercher  a  comprendre  la  loi  de  sa  destinee  a  la  lumiere  de  sa 
raison,  d'obeir  aux  seules  impulsions  du  coeur  et  de  la  con- 
science, et  qui  avait  ete  en  Europe  l'ame  meme  de  ce  qu'on  est 
convenu  d  'appeler  le  romantisme,  fut  dans  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre 
l'ame  meme  du  transcendantalisme.  Des  lors,  et  quand  bien 
meme  celui-ci,  plus  que  celui-la,  tient  a  la  philosophic  et  a  la 
religion  par  des  liens  tres  etroits  dont  le  puritanisme  sut  pre- 
venir  la  rupture,  1 'etude  du  transcendantalisme  interesse  l'his- 
toire  litteraire  pour  le  moins  tout  autant  que  l'histoire  de  In 
philosophie. 

Nous  avons  mis  bien  du  temps  a  justifier  le  choix  de  notre 
sujet ;  nous  en  employerons  moins  a  dire  pourquoi  nous  avons 


356  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

du  ecrire  notre  these  d'apres  un  plan  dont  le  defaut  n'est  que 
trop  apparent. 

Nous  etant  assigne  pour  tache  1 'etude  du  transcendantalisme 
considere  essentiellement  dans  ses  origines  franchises,  il  paraitra 
pour  le  moins  singulier,  qu'apres  avoir  fait  preceder  cette  etude 
d  'un  apercu  de  1  'histoire  de  la  pensee  philosophique  en  Amerique 
aux  17me  et  18me  siecles,  nous  nous  soyons  attarde  longuement  a 
definir  un  mouvement  de  pensee  que  notre  preface  indique  dans 
ses  traits  essentiels  et  que  la  derniere  partie  de  notre  introduc- 
tion precise  davantage.  A  cela  nous  repondrons  que  le  probleme 
des  origines  du  transcendantalisme  est  d'une  telle  complexity, 
qu'a  moins  d'en  etablir  de  maniere  tres  precise  les  termes  qu'il 
suppose,  il  n'y  a  nul  moyen  de  travailler  utilement  a  sa  solution. 
II  nous  parait  que  c'est  pour  n 'avoir  point  cherche  a  determiner 
de  f aeon  rigoureuse  le  sens  qu  'il  f aut  donner  a  cette  forme  puri- 
taine  du  romantisme  qui  a  nom  transcendantalisme,  que  la  plu- 
part  des  historiens  de  ce  mouvement  se  sont  contentes  d'en  faire 
une  sorte  de  succedane  de  la  philosophic  idealiste  allemande  du 
19me  siecle,  proclamant  en  meme  temps  que  son  prophete  et  son 
chef  n'etait  autre  qu 'Emerson.  Nous  verrons  en  son  lieu  com- 
ment il  faut  comprendre  semblable  assertion.  Qu'il  nous  suffise 
de  rappeler  ici  que  ces  grands  courants  d'idees  que  nous  voyons 
se  former  au  cours  de  1  'histoire  des  peuples,  courants  auxquels  les 
litteratures  nationales  pretent  des  formes  qui  demeurent,  ne 
commencent  pas  que  dans  l'ame  de  quelques  privilegies  que  la 
vivacite  de  leur  intelligence  et  leur  extreme  sensibilite  rendent 
capables  d 'avoir  une  conscience  tres  nette  d'idees  et  d 'aspira- 
tions qu'un  plus  ou  moins  grand  nombre  d'individus  pensent  et 
sentent  trop  confinement  pour  pouvoir  les  exprimer ;  que  ces 
memes  courants  ont  leurs  sources  premieres  dans  tout  un  monde 
complexe  d'evenements  historiques  dont  le  temps  a  su  faire,  sous 
rinfluence  d 'institutions  diverses,  et  cela  pour  chaque  pays,  ce 
que  nous  appelons  une  ame  nationale. 

Comme  nous  1  'expliquerons  au  cours  de  notre  etude,  les  trans- 
cendantalistes,  et  ceci  est  non  moins  vrai  d 'Emerson  que  de  W. 
E.  Channing,  d 'Orestes  A.  Brownson,  que  de  George  Ripley,  ont 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisrne  357 

retrouve  chez  les  grands  idealistes  allemands  un  etat  d'ame  qui 
etait  plus  ou  moins  le  leur,  ce  qui  explique  l'interet  qu'ils  por- 
terent  a  leur  philosophie,  tandis  qu'ils  ont  emprunte  aux  spiri- 
tualistes  francais,  en  particulier,  des  formes  qui  se  trouverenl 
exprimer  de  la  facon  la  plus  satisfaisante,  des  idees  et  des  con- 
ceptions qu'ils  devaient  beaucoup  plus  a  ce  qu'ils  etaient  eux- 
meraes  qu'a  ce  qu'avaient  ete  les  ecrivains  qu'ils  lurent,  appre- 
cierent  et  comprirent.  Des  lors,  nous  ne  voyons  pas  trop  com- 
ment il  serait  possible  de  parler  convenablement  de  ce  que  nous 
avons  appele  les  origines  franchises  du  transcendantalisrne,  faute 
d'une  expression  qui  put  exprimer  mieux  ce  que  nous  essay 01  is 
de  dire,  sans  avoir  prealablement  defini  avec  precision  les  ele- 
ments divers  dont  il  est  compose. 

Nous  ne  nous  flattens  point  d  'avoir  consulte  tous  les  ouvrages, 
toutes  les  publications  capables  de  former  une  bibliograpbie  com- 
plete de  notre  sujet.  Eloigne  comme  nous  le  sommes  des  grandes 
bibliotheques  ou  reposent  peut-etre,  ensevelis  et  ignores,  bien 
des  documents  dont  le  contenu  eut  pu  illustrer  et  justifier  les 
conclusions  auxquelles  nous  nous  sommes  arrete,  nous  nous 
sommes  contente  de  lire,  dans  les  meilleures  editions  que  nous 
en  connaissions,  les  ouvrages  des  transcendantalistes ;  de  recher- 
cher  dans  celles  des  revues  anglaises  qui  de  1820  a  1850  con- 
tribuerent  le  plus  a  eveiller  et  a  entretenir  l'interet  que  la 
Nouvelle-Angleterre,  durant  cette  meme  periode,  porta  aux 
choses  de  la  litterature  et  de  la  philosophie  europeennes,  tout  ce 
qui  etait  de  nature  a  nous  instruire  des  idees  echangees  entre  les 
deux  continents ;  de  lire,  enfin,  celles  des  revues  americaines  dans 
lesquelles  nous  trouvons  1 'expression  litteraire  que  donnerent  au 
transcendantalisme  des  philosophes  tels  qu 'Emerson  et  Orestes 
A.  Brownson,  de  grands  penseurs  Chretiens  tels  que  W.  E.  (man- 
ning et  Theodore  Parker,  des  ecrivains  et  poetes  tels  que  H.  D. 
Thoreau,  A.  B.  Alcott,  Margaret  Fuller  et  Nathaniel  Hawthorne, 
des  philanthropes  tels  que  George  Ripley  et  W.  Henry  Channing. 
A  qui  nous  reprocherait  de  n'avoir  point  cherche  a  consulted  tels 
manuscrits  epars  qui  eussent  pu  a j outer  quelques  renseigne- 
ments  a  ceux  dont  nous  nous  sommes  contente,  nous  dirons  seule- 


358  Univi  rsity  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

ment  que  nous  ne  voyons  point  l'importanee  qu'ils  pourraient 
avoir,  compares  a  ceux  que  nous  avons  pu  tirer,  soit  de  l'oeuvre 
ecrite  et  publiee  des  transcendantalistes,  soit  de  la  litterature 
periodique  a  laquelle  ces  derniers  contribuerent  largement. 

Pour  rintroduction  historique  dont  nous  avons  fait  preceder 
notre  etude,  uous  avons  mis  a  contribution,  par  endroits,  l'in- 
teressant  ouvrage  que  M.  L.  Van  Becelaere  a  consacre  a  1  'histoire 
de  la  philosophie  en  Amerique.  Nous  avons  mis  egalement  a 
contribution  pour  cette  meme  introduction  le  resume  excellent  de 
1  'histoire  de  la  philosophie  en  Amerique  que  fit  Noah  Porter  pour 
l'ouvrage  d'Ueberweg. 

Nous  avons  lu  avec  interet,  souvent  avec  profit,  les  ouvrages 
que  0.  B.  Frothingbam  et  H.  C.  Goddard  ont  consacre  au 
transcendantalisme,  et  n 'avons  ete  surpris  que  du  pen  d 'im- 
portance que  ces  auteurs  ont  attache  a  1 'influence  du  spiri- 
tualisme  francais  sur  la  formation  de  l'idealisme  americain. 
Tandis  que  le  premier  se  contente  de  l'indiquer,  ce  qu'il  fait, 
il  est  vrai,  en  termes  tres  precis,  sans  entrer  dans  les  developpe- 
ments  qui  en  eussent  defini  les  caracteres  essentiels,  le  second, 
apres  avoir  fait  de  la  philosophie  idealiste  allemande  une  etude 
de  detail  qui  n'a  que  peu  a  faire  dans  cette  renaissance  du 
spiritualisme  chretien  que  nous  voyons  commencer  dans  la 
Nouvelle-Angleterre  bien  avant  que  les  ouvrages  de  Kant,  de 
Pichte  et  de  Jacobi  y  eussent  ete  compris  et  apprecies.  ne  fait 
en  somme  qu'indiquer  en  passant  cette  meme  influence.  Quant 
aux  autres  ouvrages  que  nous  avons  consultes,  ils  ne  renferment 
rien  sur  le  sujet  qui  nous  occupe,  qui  nous  oblige  a  les  mentionner 
ailleurs  que  dans  la  liste  des  ouvrages  consultes  dont  nous  avons 
fait  suivre  notre  travail. 

Nous  avons  tant  d 'obligation  a  M.  G.  Chinard,  professeur  de 
litterature  francaise  a  1'Universite  de  Calif ornie,  pour  les  utiles 
conseils  qu'il  nous  a  prodigues,  pour  tout  ce  que  nous  devons  a 
son  erudition,  que  nous  ne  pouvons  nous  dispenser  de  lui  en  ex- 
primer  ici  notre  reconnaissance. 


1916]  Girard:  Ihi  transcendantalism<  359 


INTRODUCTION 

La  pensee  philosophique  en  Amerique  avant  l 'apparition  du 
transcendantalisme 
LTiistoire  de  la  philosophic  en  Amerique  durant  les  17me  et 
18me  siecles  se  confond  avec  celle  de  la  pensee  religieuse.  11  ne 
pouvait  guere  en  etre  autrement  dans  un  pays  et  dans  un 
temps  on 

la  Bible  etait  le  centre  et  le  point  de  depart  de  toute  activity  litteraire,  le 
temple,  le  seul  foyer  de  la  vie  intellectuelle  de  la  eommunaute,  la  piete, 
1 'ideal  obligatoire  de  toutes  les  ames,  le  preche,  la  grande  affaire,  ['as- 
sistance aux  offices,  le  premier  devoir,  ou  les  moindres  manquements  etaient 
punis  avec  une  implacable  rigueur,  pour  1  'exemple  et  le  bien  de  tous.1 


Les  premiers  colons  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  etaient  en  effet 
gens  de  culture,  d'ordre  et  de  moralite,  que  les  querelles  re- 
ligieuses  auxquelles,  dans  leur  pays,  ils  avaient  ete  meles,  avaient 
rendus  "-austeres  et  argumentateurs. "  Pousses  loin  des  rivages 
hostiles  a  leur  piete  par  les  persecutions  dont  ils  etaient  1 'object, 
ils  n 'avaient  d 'autre  but  en  venant  s'etablir  dans  un  monde  si 
eloigne  de  leur  mere  patrie,  que  de  constituer  une  societe  on  ils 
pussent,  dans  la  paix,  se  gouverner  eux-memes,  choisir  leurs 
magistrats,  et  promulguer  des  lois  dictees  par  "1  'esprit  de  re- 
ligion et  1  'esprit  de  liberte. ' ' 

II  y  avait  dans  le  calvinisme,  auquel  ils  adheraient  de  toute 
l'energie  de  leurs  fortes  ames,  autre  chose  qu'une  conception 
bien  definie  du  christianisme :  il  y  avait  aussi  une  doctrine  poli- 
tique, celle  dont  Calvin  lui-meme  avait  tire  parti  pour  sa  Consti- 
tution du  gouvernment  de  la  ville  de  Geneve,  une  doctrine 
politique  en  vertu  de  laquelle  les  peuples  sont  plus  que  le  sou- 
verain,  l'Eglise  est  plus  que  les  peuples.  Dans  une  societe 
homogene  dont  tous  les  elements  avaient  une  certaine  part  dans 


i  L.    Van    Becelaere,   La   philosophic   en    Amerique   depuis    It 
jusqu'd  nos  jours,  p.  21. 


360  University  of  California  Ptiblications  in  Modem  Philology      [Vol.4 

l'exercice  du  pouvoir,  il  importait  que  chacun  des  membres  de  la 
communaute  eut  conscience  de  ses  responsabilites  et  flit  mis  en 
etat  de  les  assumer ;  de  la  1  'importance  que  des  la  premiere  heure 
les  puritains  attachment  a  l'ecole.  D 'autre  part,  le  clerge  etant 
appele  a  juger,  en  dernier  ressort,  de  toutes  ehoses  concernant 
les  affaires  de  l'Eglise  et  de  l'Etat,  il  etait  indispensable  que 
leur  education  les  preparat  a  cette  tache  que  leur  confiaient  les 
peuples. 

Pour  comprendre  le  caractere  special  de  la  pensee  philoso- 
phique  en  Amerique  dans  ses  commencements,  il  faut  done  tenir 
compte  de  l'etat  d'ame  special  que  fut  celui  des  puritains;  il  faut 
garder,  presente  a  1 'esprit,  la  vision  de  ces  premiers  emigrants 
partis  de  Delft  Haleft,  qui,  tombes  a  genoux,  recevaient  de  leur 
pasteur,  avant  de  s  'embarquer  pour  les  terres  lointaines  que  leur 
f oi  contemplait,  une  derniere  benediction ;  il  faut  se  souvenir  que 
le  prophete  etait  pour  eux  plus  que  le  roi,  Esai'e  plus  que  David, 
que  les  lois  promulguees  sur  le  mont  Sina'i  etaient  pour  eux  plus 
que  les  constitutions.  D'un  tel  etat  de  ehoses  et  d'un  tel  etat 
d'ame,  il  resulte  que  la  religion  sera  pour  les  puritains  1 'inspira- 
tion de  leur  pensee,  la  morale  biblique  le  guide  de  leurs  actions,  la 
theologie  la  science  par  excellence,  Tenseignement  du  catechism  e 
dans  les  ecoles  elementaires,  celui  de  la  dogmatique  dans  les 
ecoles  superieures,  le  moyen  le  plus  sur  de  maintenir  et  de  trans- 
mettre  intact  1 'heritage  sacre  recu  de  la  Reforme. 

Durant  tout  le  17me  siecle  les  nouveaux  emigres  de  la 
Nouvelle-Angleterre  sont  essentiellement  "des  homines  d 'action 
et  des  hommes  de  Dieu, ' '  que  la  necessite  de  def richer,  de  cultiver 
et  de  batir,  d 'organiser  leurs  communautes,  et  le  desir  de  servir 
Dieu  fidelement,  occupent  si  completement  que,  malgre  la  pre- 
sence parmi  eux  de  nombreux  gradues  d  'Oxford  et  de  Cambridge, 
ils  ne  portent  qu'un  mediocre  interet  aux  ehoses  de  la  philoso- 
phic Tels  de  leurs  ministres  et  de  leurs  magistrate,  cependant, 
trouverent  de  bonne  heure  les  loisirs  necessaires  a  la  composition 
d'assez  nombreux  traites  auxquels  la  religion  et  la  politique  ne 
sont  que  tres  rarement  etrangers.  Gardiens  fideles  d'un  cal- 
vinisme   strict   et   defenseurs   zeles   de   la   theocratic,    ils   n'ont 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  361 

d 'autre  intention  que  celle  de  justifier  l'exercice,  par  le  clerge,  du 
pouvoir  temporel,  et  1 'interpretation  litterale  que  ce  meme  clerge 
donnait  des  saintes  Eeritures.  La  Bible  etant  pour  eux  le  livre 
par  excellence,  le  devoir  n'allant  jamais  sans  une  observance 
rigoureuse  des  precept es  que  ce  livre  renferme,  il  n'est  pas  sur- 
prenant  que  nous  devious  chercher  dans  la  theologie  les  premieres 
manifestations  de  la  pensee  philosophique  en  Amerique. 

Malgre  la  fondation,  en  1636,  du  college  de  Harvard ;  malgre 
1'etablissement,  en  1639,  d'une  imprimerie  a  Cambridge,  l'ap- 
parition,  en  1640,  d'une  traduction  en  vers  du  livre  des  Psaumes, 
la  publication,  entre  1650  et  1700,  d'une  quantite  relativement 
considerable  de  sermons  et  de  traites  religieux  sortis  de  la  plume 
prolifique  des  Mathers  et  de  leurs  coreligionnaires ;  malgre  la 
fondation,  en  1693,  du  college  dit  de  "William  and  Mary"  (Vir- 
ginie),  en  1700,  de  celui  de  Yale,  nous  ne  discernons  rien,  au  17me 
siecle,  qui  nous  permette  de  marquer  un  point  de  depart  pour 
1 'etude  que  nous  nous  proposons.2  Toutefois,  si  nous  ne  voyons 
point  encore  se  dessiner  le  mouvement  de  pensee  que  nous  at- 
tendons,  le  pen  que  nous  enseigne  ce  que  les  puritains  ont  mis 
dans  leurs  ecrits  nous  montre  bien  les  chemins  qui  nous  y  con- 
duiront. 

L 'intransigeance  d'un  clerge  qui  voyait  de  l'heresie  jusque 
dans  V Imitation  de  Jesus  Christ  (publiee  en  1667),  celle  d'un 
rigorisme  qui  ne  pouvait  manquer,  a  la  longue,  de  repondre  mal 
aux  besoins  les  plus  legitimes  de  l'lmmaine  nature,  1  'eloignement 
dans  un  passe  qu'on  n'avait  point  connu,  de  querelles  et  de  con- 
troverses  qu'on  n'avait  pas  epousees,  devaient  fatalement  amener 
une  reaction.  Le  meme  liberalisme  qu'au  18me  siecle  nous 
voyons  poindre  partout,  et  dont  le  Spectator  etait  peut-etre  pour 
tous  lecteurs  de  la  langue  d 'Addison  la  forme  la  plus  sympa- 
thique  et  la  plus  populaire,  ne  pouvait  manquer  de  se  frayer  une 


2  Les  quatre  ou  cinq  ouvrages  de  Eoger  Williams  (1606-1683),  ministre 
puritan  et  premier  "inventeur"  de  la  liberte  de  conscience  en  Amgrique, 
eussent-ils  exerce,  au  moment  de  leur  apparition,  une  influence  marquee, 
qu'ils  nous  autoriseraient  a  voir  dans  le  liberalisme  dont  ils  sont  1 'expres- 
sion, plutot  que  dans  les  ecrits  subsequents  de  Jonathan  Edwards,  le  point 
de  depart  de  Thistoire  proprement  dite  de  la  pensee  philosophique  en 
Amerique. 


362  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

voie  parmi  les  paritains  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre.  Du  reste, 
l'arrivee  constante  de  nouveaux  emigrants,  la  presence  dans  le 
voisinage  immediat  des  colonies  de  gens  et  de  tribus  rebelles  anx 
methodes  d 'evangelisation  des  protestants  d'alors,  et  les  guerres 
occasionnelles  dans  lesqnelles  se  trouverent  engages  les  puri- 
tains ;  le  passage,  anssi,  d  'im  calvinisme  tout  de  ferveur  et 
d 'inspiration  religieuse  a  une  orthodoxie  toute  de  formalisme  et 
d'autorite,  et  1 'apparition,  vers  1740,  des  reveils  religieux  suscites 
par  la  predication  enthousiaste  de  George  Whitefield,  avaient  a 
ce  point  modifie  les  nioeurs  et  alarme  le  clerge,  que  le  meilleur  de 
la  litterature  americaine  durant  la  premiere  moitie  du  18me 
siecle  etait  destine  a,  raffermir  des  convictions  qu'on  sentait 
ebranlees,  et  une  forme  de  gouvernement  toute  prete  a  dispa- 
raitre. 

L 'esprit  de  tolerance,  dont  on  sentait  partout,  vers  1750,  1 'in- 
fluence grandissante,  n 'etait  pas  sans  avoir  en  Amerique  de 
lointaines  origines.  En  1636,  .Roger  "Williams,  qu'on  a  appele 
quelquefois  le  premier  "inventeur,"  en  Amerique,  de  la  liberte 
de  conscience,  etait  alle  fonder  a  l'endroit  ou  plus  tard  s'eleva 
la  ville  de  Providence  un  etablissement  ou  "les  administrations 
politique  et  religieuse  etaient  strictement  separees."  Un  demi 
siecle  plus  tard  les  tendances  liberates  que  le  clerge  s'efforeait 
en  vain  de  prevenir  alarmaient  a  ce  point  les  esprits,  qu'un  cer- 
tain nombre  de  ministres  du  Connecticut  se  decidaient  a  fonder, 
en  1700,  le  college  de  Yale,  dans  le  but  avoue  de  sauvegarder  des 
traditions  d 'orthodoxie  que  le  liberalisme  du  college  de  Harvard 
compromettait  deja.  Et  c 'etait  dans  le  meme  but  qu'en  1746 
les  puritains  etablissaient  le  college  de  Princeton. 

Si  le  milieu  du  18me  siecle  marque  assez  bien  le  commence- 
ment du  triomphe  de  l'esprit  de  tolerance,  il  marque  egalement 
le  point  de  depart  de  l'histoire  de  la  pensee  philosophique  dans 
la  Nouvelle-Angleterre.  Avec  la  fondation,  en  1749,  sous  les 
auspices  de  1 'American  Philosophic  Society,  du  college  de  Phila- 
delphie,  devenu  en  1755  l'universite  de  Pensylvanie;  avec  celles, 
en  1746,  1754  et  1764,  de  Nassau  Hall  (Princeton),  de  King's 
College  (devenu  l'universite  de  Columbia,  a  New-York),  et  du 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalismi  :;<;;; 

college  de  Rhode-Island3  (Brown  University),  commence  pour 
les  colonies  une  periode  d'activite  intellectuelle  a  Laquelle  deux 
homines  en  particulier,  Jonathan  Edwards  et  Benjamin  Fran- 
klin, preterent  le  caractere  philosophique  et  litteraire  qu'oD  se 
plait  a  lui  reconnaitre. 

Jonathan  Edwards,4  a  l'exemple  d'un  grand  nombre  de  colons 
du  18me  siecle,  s'initia  de  bonne  heure  aux  speculations  philoso- 
phiques  et  theologiques  des  deistes  anglais.  A  l'age  de  treize 
ans,  il  lisait  l'essai  de  John  Locke  sur  rentendement  humain, 
avec  plus  de  delices,  nous  dit-il,  que  n'en  trouve  un  avare  a  ramas- 
ser  par  poignees  de  Tor  et  de  l'argent.  Joignant  a  une  extreme 
sensibilite  une  rare  intelligence,  possedant  un  desir  insatiable 
de  s'instruire,  il  fut  de  bonne  heure  a  meme  d'etudier  et  de  dis- 
cuter  avec  maitrise  les  problemes  ardus  du  libre  arbitre  et  du 
determinisme,  dans  lesquels  l'engagerent  les  controverses  qu'il 
soutint,  d'une  part,  contre  l'arminianisme  d'un  John  Taylor  et 
d'un  Samuel  Clarke,  d 'autre  part  contre  le  calvinisme  mitige 
d'un  Doddridge  ou  d'un  Watts.5 

Nous  ne  saurions  faire  rentrer  dans  le  cadre  restreint  de 
notre  introduction  1 'expose  meme  succinct  de  la  philosophic 
d 'Edwards,  philosophic  dont  le  sucees  s'etendit  bien  au  dela  des 


3  Van  Becelaere,  ouv.  cite,  pp.  24-25. 

-'Jonathan  Edwards  (1703-1758),  pasteur  de  Northampton  (Massa- 
chusetts) de  1726  a  1750,  de  Stoekbridge  (Mass.)  en  175:!;  president  du 
college  de  New  Jersey  de  1757  a  1758.  Ouvrages  les  plus  importants: 
1.  Notes  on  the  Mind,,  and  on  Natural  Science.  Cf.  Appendix  to  S.  E. 
Dwight's  Life  of  Edwards,  Vol.  1  de  1 'edition  Dwight  des  ceuvres  de  J. 
Edwards;  2.  Treatise  on  the  Religious  Affections,  Boston,  1746;  3.  A  Care- 
ful and  Strict  Inquiry  into  the  Modern  Notion  of  that  Freedom  of  W ill 
which  is  Supposed  to  be  Essential  to  Moral  Agency,  Virtue  and  Vice,  //<  ward 
ami  Punishment,  Praise  ami  Blame,  Boston,  1854;  4.  The  Great  Christian 
Doctrint  of  Original  Sin  Defended;  Evidences  of  its  Truth  Produced  .  .  .  , 
Boston,  175S;  5.  Dissertation  Concerning  the  Nature  of  True  Virtue.  Boston. 
1788;  6.  Charity  and  its  Fruits,  New  York,  1852,  edited  by  Tyron  Edwards. 

Editions:  (Euvres  completes,  Worcester,  Mass.,  1809,  Dr.  S.  Austin,  8 
vols.;  Londres,  1817,  8  vols,  edites  par  Dr.  E.  Williams,  vols,  ix  et  x. 
Edimbourg,  1847;  Londres,  1834,  2  vols,  edites  par  Edward  Hickman; 
New  York,  1844,  10  vols,  edites  par  S.  E.  Dwight;  New  York,  1844,  !  vols. 
reimpression  de  1 'edition  de  Worcester.  A  consulter:  Philosophy  in 
America,  par  Noah  Porter,  dans  Ueberweg's  History  of  Philosophy,  vol. 
IT,  second  edition,  London,  1876. 

5  Ueberweg,  History  of  Philosophy,  vol.  2,  p.  444. 


364  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol. -4 

lhnites  de  la  Xouvelle-Angleterre,6  et  dont  I'influence  se  fit  sentir 
tout  le  long  du  ISnie  siecle,  et  durant  au  moins  toute  la  premiere 
moitie  du  19me,  parmi  les  calvinistes.  Le  merite  essentiel  de 
Jonathan  Edwards  a  ete  d'etablir  sur  un  fondement  philoso- 
phique  la  philosophie  calviniste.  Tout  en  admettant  avec  Locke. 
son  maitre  ineonteste,  que  1'idee  ne  procede  que  de  la  sensation, 
avec  Hume  que  l'aetivite  de  Lesprit  result  e  en  grande  partie  de 
l'assoeiation  des  idees,  il  se  separe  du  premier  en  tant  qu'il  se 
refuse  a  admettre  l'identite  du  moi  et  de  la  conscience,  du  second 
en  tant  qu'il  admet  le  possibilite  pour  l'homme  de  connaitre  la 
nature  du  rapport  existant  entre  causes  et  effets,  de  passer  de 
l'idee  de  la  chose  creee  a  celle  de  l'objet  createur,  en  d'autres 
termes  (et  e'est  ici  le  point  important)  de  l'idee  de  nature  a  l'idee 
de  Dieu.  En  outre,  tandis  qu'avec  tous  les  calvinistes  conse- 
quents il  nie  categoriquement  l'existence  du  libre  arbitre — et 
toute  sa  philosophie  ne  tend  a  rien  autre  qu  'a  demontrer  la  neces- 
site  logique  du  determinisme — il  s'eearte  legerement  des  pre- 
misses qu'il  s'etait  posees  en  acceptant  dans  toute  sa  rigueur  la 
doctrine  de  la  predestination,  en  faisant  constituer  la  vertu,  et 
eonsequemment  la  moralite,  non  point  dans  l'adhesion  de  l'intel- 
ligence  et  de  la  volonte  a  la  doctrine  qu'il  preconise,  mais  dans 
l'amour  du  bien  par  excellence,  c'est-a-dire  dans  lunion  de  l'ame 
avec  Dieu. 

Si  l'opposition  que  la  theologie  d 'Edwards  ne  tarda  pas  a 
rencontrer  en  Amerique  et  en  Angleterre  vint  quelquefois  de 
theologiens  qui,  pour  n 'avoir  point  compris  que  cette  theologie 
n'etait  autre  que  l'expose  philosophique  de  la  doctrine  calviniste, 
n'en  demeuraient  pas  moins  les  defenseurs  zeles  de  l'orthodoxie 
la  plus  intransigeante,  elle  vint  principalement  de  theologiens 
qui,  de  bonne  heure  influences  par  Berkeley,  professerent  un 
idealisme  d  'inspiration  toute  platonicienne. 

L'apparition.  en  1752,  des  Elementa  plnlosoplnca''   publics 


s  Dugald  Stewart  lui-meme  dit  en  parlant  >\  'E'lwanls:  "There  is  one 
metaphysician  of  whom  America  has  to  boast,  who  in  logical  acuteness 
and  subtility  does  not  yield  to  any  disputant  bred  in  the  universities  of 
Europe"  (Diss.,  part  ii,  Sec.  7);  Ueberweg,  ouv.  cite,  p.  443. 

'Elementa  pJiilosophica,  Philadelphie,  1752,  Londres,  1753.  L'ouvrage 
est  divise  en  deux  parties:  1.  Xoetica,  ou  les  choses  relatives  a  1  'entende- 
ment.     2.  Ethiea,  choses  relatives  a  la  morale. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  tmnscendaataUsme 

par  Franklin  a  Pkiladelphie.  marque  tout  a  la  fois  le  commence- 
ment d'une  reaction  dirigee  contre  r"edwardsianisme"  et  le 
point  de  depart  dune  ere  nouvelle  dans  l'histoire  de  la  pensee 
pkilosopkique  en  Amerique.  L'auteur  anonyme  de  l'ouvrage  que 
nous  venous  de  citer,  Samuel  Johnson,5  inaugure  en  effet  1  'intro- 
duction dans  les  colonies  d'une  philosopkie  qui.  tout  en  eonser- 
vant  un  caractere  foncierement  religieux.  ce  qui  suffit  a  expliquer 
l'accueil  syuipathique  qu'elle  rencontra  en  Amerique  des  son 
apparition,  s'eeartait  considerablement  de  celle  de  Jonathan 
Edwards.  En  effet.  non  seulement  elle  refute  le  determinisme, 
admettant  la  possibilite  d'une  action  spontanee  exereee  par  l'ame 
elle-meme.  mais.  refutant  la  theorie  du  sensualisme.  elle  ne  voit 
dans  le  monde  material  qu'une  forme  objective  de  nos  propres 
Johnson  ne  nie  pas  l'existence  d'idees  nees  de  la  per- 
ception sensible,  mais  il  laisse  subsister  a  cote  d'elles  des  concep- 
tions basees  sur  la  conscience  interne  ou  l'examen  conscient  des 
dites  idees.  conceptions  qu  'il  designe  sous  le  nom  de  * '  volitions. 
II  n'est  pas  difficile  de  voir  a  quelle  ethique  conduit  une  telle 
theorie  de  la  connaissance.  Tandis  que  pour  Edwards,  comme 
nous  l'avons  indique.  le  bien  par  excellence  consiste  dans  l'amour 
de  la  creature  pour  son  ereateur.  pour  son  antagoniste  le  bien 
consiste  dans  le  libre  choix  de  tout  ce  qui  est  approuve  par  la 
conscience,  de  tout  ce  que  la  raison  nous  fait  connaitre  comme 
bien.  et  cela  en  tenant  compte  de  la  nature  humaine  integrale, 
c  "est-a-dire  en  taut  que  eelle-ci  participe  du  monde  physique  et 
du  monde  moral,  de  la  vie  presente  et  de  la  vie  a  venir. 

Si  la  theologie  philosophique  de  Jonathan  Edwards  et  de  ses 

'Samuel  Johnson    (l-'.       1772  emier  president   du  college  de  New 

York  (King's  College,  devenu  1  "universite  de  Columbia).  II  avait  ren- 
contre George  Berkeley  a  Newport,  a  1 'occasion  d'un  sejour  que  ce  dernier 
v  fit  entre  172S  et  1731:  s 'etait  initie.  a  cette  occasion,  a  son  systeme  'le 
philosophie,  qu'il  adopta  presque  integralement,  et  tenta  plus  tard  de 
perfectionner. 

^Samuel  Hopkins   (1721-1803),  pasteur  a  Newj.ort   iEhode  Isla 
Great  Barrington   (Massaehnsetfa 

E     rions:    (Euoret  '    ■■    Boston.    1853.      Tandis    qu'Edwards    in- 

sistait  sur  la  predestination  inconditionnee,  ne  reeonnaissant  aucune 
espece  de  caractere  moral  a  1 'action,  quelle  qu'elle  soit.  commise  par 
l'homme  que  la  grace  de  Dieu  n  "a  point  regenere,  Hopkins  admet  la  pos- 
sibilite pour  l'homme  d'entrer  en  etat  de  grace,  par  la  pratique  d'une  vie 
de  saintete. 


366  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

disciples  immediats,  Samuel  Hopkins'-'  et  Timothy  Dwight,10  n'est 
autre  que  1 'expose  systematique  et  raisonne  de  la  doctrine  cal- 
viniste  telle  que  la  preconisaient  les  puritans  orthodoxes,  la 
philosophic  theologique  de  Samuel  Johnson  et  de  ses  adherents11 
etait  une  premiere  forme  du  liberalisme  vers  lequel  s'achemi- 
naient  des  esprits  que  les  decouvertes  d'un  Newton,  en  par- 
ticulier,  rendaient  soupconneux  a  1'egard  de  1  'authenticite  his- 
torique  de  certains  livres  bibliques,  et  que  le  scepticisme  de  Hume 
inclinaient  de  plus  en  plus  au  rationalisme. 

Nul  micux  que  l'auteur  de  Poor  Richard's  Almanac  ne  per- 
sonnifia  dans  la  forme  qu'il  prit  durant  la  seconde  moitie  du  18me 
siecle  le  liberalisme  de  la  Xouvelle-Angleterre.  Benjamin  Fran- 
klin, en  effet,  incarna  mieux  que  personne  en  Amerique  cet  esprit 
de  tolerance  et  de  fibre  examen  auquel  avaient  conduit  ''les  idees 
mises  en  circulation  par  les  deistes  anglais,*'  par  des  libres  pen- 
seurs,  tels  que  Shaftesbury  et  surtout  David  Hume,  ainsi  que 
par  les  philosophes  francais.  Comme  Jonathan  Edwards,  comme 
Samuel  Johnson,  comme  tons  les  etudiants  qui  frequentaient 
alors  les  colleges  amerieains,  Franklin  avait  lu  de  bonne  heure 
Findispensable  "Essai"  de  Locke  sur  rentendement  humain. 
Peu  porte  de  sa  nature  vers  les  speculations  de  la  metaphysique, 
ne  voyant  pas  pourquoi,  comme  il  nous  le  dit  lui-meme,  "il  fau- 
drait  s'interesser  a  des  choses  dont  on  ne  peut  se  donner  1 'evi- 
dence," il  ne  mit  pas  longtemps  a  identifier  sa  philosophic  avec 


io  Timothy  Dwight  (1752-1817),  president  .lu  College  .le  Yale  .le  1795- 
1817. 

Editions :  CEuvres  completes:  Theology  Explained  and  Defended.  7  vols., 
1S0S-1846.  Tres  au  courant  .les  choses  de  la  philosophie  anglaise  et  eeos- 
saise,  qu'il  analyse  avec  beaucoup  de  methode  et  de  clarte,  il  aceorde  une 
tres  graude  place  dans  son  systeme  a  la  jihilosophie  morale.  II  est  in- 
teressant  d  'apprendre  qu  'il  choisit  comme  ' '  textbooks "  a  1  'usage  de 
ses  etudiants  Duncan's  Logic,  Locke's  Essay  et  Paley's  Moral  and  Political 
Philosophy. 

Quoique  defenseur  zele  de  1 'orthodoxie  traditionnelle,  Dwight  introduit 
dans  son  etude  des  problemes  theologiques  les  premiers  elements  de  la 
methode  exegetique,  telle  que  la  eomprenait,  du  moins,  l'e.-ole  de  Tubingue. 

11  Bien  ne  prouve  mieux  la  succes  que  rencontra  en  son  temps  la 
philosophie  de  Berkeley  que  1 'introduction  dans  les  colleges  de  Xew  York 
et  de  Philadelphie  des  traites  rediges  par  Samuel  Johnson.  Quant  au 
college  de  Harvard,  il  s 'en  tenait  encore  principalement  a  la  "Logique" 
de  Brattle,  ainsi  qu 'au  fameux  "Essai"  de  Locke  sur  rentendement 
humain. 


1916]  Guard:  Du  transcendantalisme  367 

les  sciences  de  la  nature:1-  les  deeouvertes  qu'on  lui  doit  disenl 
assez  le  succes  qu'il  atteignit  dans  cette  direction. 

S'il  y  avait  en  Franklin  un  grand  observateur  des  choses  de 
la  nature,  un  savant  que  ses  nombreuses  lectures  rendaient  bien 
informe,  il  y  avait  aussi  un  philosophe  avise  qui,  pour  n 'avoir  eu 
jamais  aucune  espece  de  sympathie  pour  le  puritanisme,  pour 
son  orthodoxie  traditionnelle,  n'en  demeurait  pas  moius  a  I'ecarl 
des  lieux  cominuns  d'un  rationalisme  que  les  ecrits  de  Voltaire, 
de  Diderot,  du  baron  d'Holbach  et  de  leurs  acolytes,  avaient  fail 
descendre  tres  bas  dans  le  materialisme.  II  s'etait  fait,  du  reste, 
dans  son  esprit,  au  cours  de  sa  longue  vie,  des  changements  dont 
temoigne  la  teneur  de  son  autobiograpbie.  Eleve  dans  les  prin- 
cipes  d  'un  calvinisme  qui  avait  deja  perdu  un  peu  de  sa  rigueur, 
initie  tres  tot  aux  discussions  de  toute  sorte  rapportees  dans  le 
Spectator,  qu'il  lisait  assidument  alors  qu'il  n'etait  encore  qu'ap- 
prenti  imprimeur,  il  en  etait  arrive  a  douter  non  seulement  de  la 
revelation,  mais  aussi  de  1 'existence  objective  du  mal.  En  1727 
— il  avait  alors  24  ans — il  s'etait  enhardi  a  ecrire  "que  rien  ne 
saurait  etre  vraiment  mauvais  dans  ce  monde,  et  que  vice  et 
vertu  sont  des  distinctions  vides  de  sens."  Heureusement  pour 
sa  gloire,  Franklin  trois  ans  plus  tard  qualifia  de  sottise  de  jeu- 
nesse,  le  traite  contenant  le  passage  en  question,  passage  qu'il 
s'appliquait  a  faire  oublier  lorsqu'en  1730  il  ecrivait:  "Le  fonde- 
ment  de  toute  vertu  et  de  tout  bonheur  est  de  penser  correcte- 
ment;  celuida  seul  est  moral  qui,  voyant  qu'une  action  est 
naturellement  ordonnee  au  bien,  l'accomplit  a  cause  de  cette 
ordination. '  '13 

Franklin  n'eut-il  pas  pris  soin  de  refuter  lui-meme  l'assertion 
compromettante  que  nous  avons  rappelee,  qu'il  n'en  aurait  pas 
moins  ete  le  pur  deiste  qu'on  s'est  tou jours  plu  a  reconnaitre  en 


12  Le  club  philosophique  fonde  par  Franklin  en  1778,  et  qui  devint  en 
1783  l'American  Philosophic  Society,  avait  pour  but  "  l'etude  des  sciences 
naturelles,  tout  en  pretant  attention  aux  essais  philosophiques  qui  peuvent 
eclairer  le  probleme  de  la  nature  des  choses,  tendant  a  augmenter  le 
pouvoir  de  l'homme  sur  la  nature,  et  a  multiplier  les  commodites  de  la 
vie. ' '     Van  Becelaere,  p.  33. 

is  Cf.  Dissertation  sur  la  liberie  et  la  necessite,  sur  le  plaisir  et  hi  souf- 
france,  le  seul  traite  de  Franklin  qui  ait  quelque  rapport  avec  la  m.'t.i 
physique.     (Citation  de  Van  Becelaere,  p.  32). 


368  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

lui.  S'il  n'a  que  faire  des  dogmes  de  la  theologie  calviniste,  si 
a  Boston  deja,  malgre  tout  le  remords  qu'il  en  eprouve,  il  passe 
a  l'imprimerie  bien  des  heures  qu'il  devait  a  l'eglise;  si  durant 
toute  sa  vie  il  se  refuse  a  adniettre  que  le  devoir  essentiel  sur 
cette  terre  soit  de  s'occuper  du  ciel,  il  n'y  a  pas  moins  ehez  lui 
un  esprit  dispose  a  chercher  dans  la  religion,  occasionnellement 
du  moins,  des  verites  que  la  raison  est  impuissante  a  deeouvrir, 
une  ame  croyante  que  le  scepticisme  n'a  jamais  satisfaite  com- 
pletement.  II  n'y  a  rien  dans  ses  ecrits,  il  est  vrai,  qui  nous  per- 
mette  de  constituer  de  toutes  pieces  un  systeme  de  philosophie, 
mais  on  y  trouve  tous  les  elements  d'un  spiritualisme  que  nous 
n 'hesiterions  pas  a  qualifier  de  chretien,  s'il  ne  rappelait  pas,  par 
endroits,  celui  des  philosophes  francais  du  18me  siecle.  Le  Dieu 
que  Franklin  consent  a  servir  fait  involontairement  penser  a 
l'Etre  Supreme  auquel  Voltaire,  vers  la  fin  de  sa  vie,  fit  eriger 
un  temple  sous  les  ombrages  de  Ferney.  II  importe  d'ajouter, 
toutefois,  que  les  vues  que  nous  a  laissees  Franklin  sur  le  re- 
ligion, dans  sa  confession  de  foi,14  n'ont  rien  de  commun  avec  la 
philosophie  materialist  e  d'un  Lamettrie,  ou  avec  celle  de  l'au- 
teur  du  Systeme  de  let  nature.  Si  sa  philosophie — et  il  en  sera 
de  meme  de  celle  d'un  Jefferson  ou  d'un  John  Quincy  Adams — 
cotoie  quelquefois  les  lieux  communs  mal  definis  du  scepticisme, 
et  menace  parfois  de  s'y  perdre,  elle  ne  va  jamais  au  dela. 

Ce  n'est  guere  qu'apres  1790  que  nous  voyons  prendre  forme 
dans  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  le  courant  de  libre  pensee  dont  les 
vagues  commencements  remontent  sans  doute  bien  au  dela  de 
1776.  L 'esprit  d'independance  et  de  liberte  qu'entretinrent  et 
developperent,  chacune  a  sa  maniere,  la  Revolution  d'Amerique 


14  Eien  ne  defiuit  mieux  le  spiritualisme  de  Benjamin  Franklin  que  la 
confession  de  foi  qu'il  formula  lui-meme  quelque  temps  avant  sa  mort: 

''Je  crois  en  un  seul  Dieu,"  ecrivait-il,  "createur  de  l'univers  qu'il 
gouverne  par  sa  providence;  je  crois  qu'il  doit  etre  l'objet  d'un  culte; 
mais  je  pense  que  le  culte  le  plus  acceptable  a  lui  offrir  consiste  a  faire 
le  bien  a  ses  autres  enfants.  Je  crois  que  1  'ame  de  1  'homme  est  immor- 
telle et  sera  traitee  avec  justice  dans  une  autre  vie,  selon  sa  conduite  dans 
la  vie  presente.  Quant  a  Jesus  de  Nazareth,  j'estime  que  son  systeme  de 
morale  et  sa  religion  sont  les  meilleurs  qu'il  ait  ete  donne  au  monde  de 
voir  ou  qu'il  ait  jamais  chance  de  rencontrer  dans  l'avenir"  (Citation  de 
M.  Van  Beeelaere,  p.  32  de  son  ouvrage). 


1916]  Girard:  Da  transcendantalisme  369 

et  la  Revolution  francaise,  les  relations  plus  etroites  et  plus 
suivies  que  ces  deux  evenements  creerent  entre  la  France  e1  Irs 
Etats-Unis,  l'echange  plus  facile  et  plus  regulier,  entre  ees  deux 
pays,  de  journaux  et  de  pamphlets  dans  lesquels  etaient  Librement 
discutees  toutes  questions  relatives  a  l'economie  politique,  dans 
lesquels  tous  les  principes  qui  etaient  a  la  base  de  la  morale  tra- 
ditionnelle  etaient  remis  en  question,  n'avaient  pas  ete,  en  effet, 
sans  ereer  un  nouvel  etat  d 'esprit,  sans  ouvrir  une  voie  au  flot 
montant  d'incredulite  et  de  materialisme  dont  toutes  les  societes 
d'alors  furent  plus  ou  moins  submergees.  Nous  en  avons  la 
preuve  dans  les  attaques  violentes  dirigees  par  le  clerge  eontre 
les  propagateurs  de  l'irreligion,  dans  les  mesures  prises  par  les 
autorites  de  plusieurs  colleges  pour  combattre,  parmi  les  etu- 
diants,  1 'influence  grandissante  des  ouvrages  de  Thomas  Paine,13 
dans  le  cri  d'alarme  jete  dans  toutes  les  directions  par  les  eglises 
en  detresse.16 

Si  la  philosophic  materialiste,  telle  qu'elle  s'exprima  dans  les 
ecrits  de  Voltaire,  de  Volney  et  de  Lamettrie,  exerca  une  in- 
fluence marquee  sur  la  pensee  philosophique  et  religieuse  de  la 
Nouvelle-Angleterre,17  cette  influence,  en  somme,  ne  fut  que  pas- 


is  En  1796  les  autorites  du  college  ile  Harvard  font  remettre  a  chacun 
des  etudiants  un  exemplaire  de  Watson's  Apology  of  the  Bible,  ouvrage 
ecrit  dans  le  but  precis  de  refuter  les  conclusions  du  fameux  traite  de 
Thomas  Paine  intitule  Age  of  Reason.  Cf.  Memoir  of  William  E,  Chan- 
ning,  p.  62. 

i6  En  1798  l'assemblee  generale  de  l'eglise  presbyterienne  adresse  a 
tous  ses  membres  un  solennel  avertissement  "against  the  astounding 
infidelity  which  tends  to  atheism  itself."  Deux  ans  plus  tard,  le  presi- 
dent  de  la  meme  assemblee  se  plaint  de  la  propagation  de  principes  qui 
sont  le  renversement  de  toute  religion,  de  toute  morale,  et  de  toute 
societe.     Cf.  Riley,  American  Philosophy,  p.  318. 

A  diverses  reprises,  en  1802  et  en  1810,  par  exemple,  les  administra- 
teurs  du  college  de  Princeton  deplorent  les  progres  considerables  qu  'a 
faits  la  libre  pensee,  et  l'etat  deplorable  de  corruption  qu'elle  a  cree  un 
peu  partout. 

i"  Nous  avons  lieu  d'etre  surpris  que  l'homme  tres  bien  informe  qu'est 
generalement  l'auteur  de  A  Century  of  Science  (Boston,  1890),  M.  John 
Fiske,  ait  pu  ecrire  que  1  'atheisme  f rancais  du  18me  siecle  n  'exerca  aucune 
influence  appreciable  dans  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre,  et  que  le  deisme  de 
Voltaire  ne  trouva  c.a  et  la  que  quelques  admirateurs.  Ce  n  'est  pas  chose 
aisee  que  de  concilier  de  telles  assertions  avec  de  certaines  remarques  que 
nous  ont  laissees  plusieurs  des  homines  du  temps  qui  nous  occupe.  C'esl 
ainsi,  par  exemple,  que  l'un  d 'eux  (Judge  White)  ecrivait  vers  1794: 
"When  1  entered  Harvard  College,  the  French  Revolution  had  broken 
up  the  foundations  of  religion   and  morals  as  well  as  government,   and 


370  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

sagere.  Si  elle  avait  pu  seduire  un  instant  des  esprits  que  leur 
impatience  de  jouir  de  tous  les  bienfaits  d'ime  independance 
politique  et  d'une  liberte  de  conscience  et  de  pensee  definitive- 
nient  assurees  portaient  facilement  a  tous  les  extremes,  elle  re- 
pondait  trop  mal  a  leurs  facons  habituelles  de  penser,  elle  les 
portait  trop  loin  de  traditions  qui  leur  etaient  encore  cheres,  pour 
qu'elle  n'appelat  pas  la  reaction  que  ses  exces  avaient  eux- 
memes  rendue  inevitable. 

Si  nous  avons  insiste  sur  ce  que  furent  la  religion  et  la 
philosophie  de  Benjamin  Franklin,  sur  ce  que  furent  celles  des 
rationalistes  qui  marcherent  dans  ses  voies  avant  d'aller  plus 
loin,  c'est  non  seulement  parce  qu'elles  representent  au  18me 
siecle  un  courant  important  de  la  pensee  americaine,  mais  aussi 
parce  que  la  reaction  a  laquelle  elles  conduisirent  ira  rejoindre 
celle  que  r"edwardsianisme"  avait  de  son  cote  suscitee  parmi 
les  calvinistes  orthodoxes,  et  contribuera,  elle  aussi,  a  la  forma- 
tion, entre  1820  et  1835,  de  ce  grand  mouvement  de  pensee  re- 
ligieuse,  philosophique  et  sociale  qu'on  designe  sous  le  nom  de 
transcendantalisme.  Ce  dernier,  toutefois,  coimne  nous  le  ver- 
rons  plus  loin,  ne  fut  pas  qu'une  reaction  contre  l'orthodoxie  de 
puritains  intransigeants  et  contre  un  rationalisme  qui  deja 
tenait  plus  du  deisme  anglais  d'ou  il  etait  derive  que  de  la 
philosophie  materialist  e  qui  1 'avait  un  instant  altere;  il  fut 
aussi,  avant  de  subir  rinfluence  des  philosophies  ecossaise  et 
allemande,  sous  la  forme  que  leur  preterent  les  eclectiques  fran- 
cais,  l'aboutissement  de  deux  courants  d'idees,  Tun  religieux, 
1 'autre  philosophique,  et  dont  les  commencements  correspondent 
assez  bien  avec  l'arrivee  en  Amerique,  en  1738,  de  George  White- 
field,  le  fameux  "revivalist,"  en  1768,  de  John  Witherspoon, 
appele  a  la  presidence  du  college  de  Princeton. 


continued  to  rage  for  some  years  with  its  utmost  fury,  spreading  its 
disastrous  influence  throughout  the  civilized  world,  and  pouring  upon  our 
country  a  flood  of  infidel  and  licentious  principles." 

W.  E.  Channing  eerivait  a  la  meme  epoque:  "So  deeply  and  so  gen- 
erally had  the  French  mania  seized  upon  the  popular  mind  in  this  coun- 
try, and  so  susceptible  of  its  fiery  influence  were  the  ardent  spirits  of 
young  men,  .  .  .  that  reason,  argument  and  persuasion  had  for  a  time  no 
power  against  it."  (Memoir  of  W.  E.  Channing,  p.  62.  Voir  aussi  Windsor, 
Memorial  History  of  Boston,  III,  p.  403.) 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  371 

AccueiUi  tout  d'abord  avec  empressement  par  les  membres 
dun  clerge  qui  ne  voyait  pas  d 'inconvenient  a  ce  qu'on  vinl 
rammer  dans  leurs  paroisses  un  zele  religieux  dont  ils  etaient 
les  premiers  a  deplorer  1'affaiblissement,  George  Whitefield  ae 
tarda  pas  a  eveiller  parmi  eux  des  jalousies  et  des  craintes  qui 
ne  mirent  pas  longtemps  a  se  manifester.  Les  autorites  elles- 
nienies  des  colleges  de  Yale  et  de  Harvard  jugerent  opportun  de 
protester  en  bonne  et  due  forme  contre  les  exces  de  piete  et  de 
devotion  auxquels  se  livraient  un  peu  partout  les  gens  des  classes 
moyennes. 

On  n'eut  point  montre,  probablement,  le  meme  mecontente- 
ment,  si  les  nouveaux  adeptes  d'un  culte  si  universellement  ap- 
precie  s 'etaient  soucie  davantage  des  interets  spirituels  et  mate- 
riels  de  Tune  ou  l'autre  des  eglises  dont  ils  etaient  sortis;  on 
leur  eut  pardonne  leur  zele  et  leur  exaltation.  Mais  des  qu'on 
s  'apercut  que  la  predication  d  'un  etranger  de  condition  plus  que 
moyenne,  et  dont  les  connaissances  qu'il  avait  de  la  Bible 
n'avaient  ete  marquees  nulle  part  du  sceau  officiel  de  quelque 
ecole  de  theologie,  attirait  et  retenait  les  foules,  on  usa  de  tous 
les  nioyens  au  pouvoir  de  l'eglise  pour  faire  revenir  de  leurs 
egarements  les  brebis  infideles.  Mais  ce  fut  bien  en  vain  qu'on 
usa  de  l'anatheme  et  de  la  persuasion.  II  y  avait  deja  au  sein 
des  colonies  trop  de  gens  etrangers  aux  controverses  que  les  puri- 
tains  avaient  en  d'autres  temps  engagees  contre  Tautorite  et  les 
pretensions  de  l'eglise  anglicane,  trop  de  gens  indisposes  contre 
le  rigorisme  de  l'orthodoxie  traditionnelle,  pour  que  l'ceuvre  de 
Whitefield  n'eut  pas  toutes  chances  de  succes.  L 'esprit  de  tole- 
rance et  le  culte  methodiste  qui  1 'avaient  inspiree  repondaient  si 
bien  aux  besoins  religieux  des  puritans  liberaux,  d'ailleurs,  que 
ceux-ci  accueillirent  comme  un  bienfait  et  comme  une  delivrance 
le  message  eloquent  du  grand  predicateur  anglais. 

Le  methodisme,  pour  lequel  les  calvinistes  orthodoxes  ne 
professaient  pas  moins  de  mepris  que  pour  le  quakerisme,  eta  it 
desormais  une  doctrine  etablie,  et  une  doctrine  dont  les  effets 
allaient  se  faire  sentir  en  plus  d'une  direction  dans  la  vie  poli- 
tique et  sociale  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre.     En  effet,  les  memes 


372  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Pliilologt)      [Vol.4 

populations  qui  avaieut  ete  si  promptement  gagnees  a  la  cause 
du  reveil  religieux  suscite  par  la  predication  de  Whitefield, 
furent  celles  aussi  qui,  plus  tard,  en  1776,  contribuerent  pour 
une  large  part  a  la  rupture  des  liens  qui  les  avaient  rattachees  si 
longtemps  a  la  mere  patrie. 

Tandis  que  le  reveil  religieux  suscite  par  la  predication  de 
"Whitefield  avait  cree  a  cote  du  calvinisme  traditionnel  et  du 
rationalisme  deiste  de  recente  formation,  un  courant  important 
de  pensee  religieuse,  rintroduction  en  Amerique  de  la  philoso- 
phie  ecossaise,  grace  en  particulier  a  1  'enseignement  de  John 
Witherspoon  au  college  de  Princeton,  avait  contribue  a  la  forma- 
tion d'un  courant  non  moms  important  de  pensee  philosophique. 

Lorsque  l'idealisme  de  Berkeley,  qui  n 'avait  pas  ete  sans 
exercer  vers  le  milieu  du  18me  siecle  une  influence  marquee  sur 
les  esprits  enclins  a  la  tolerance,  influence  dont  les  Elementa 
philosophica,  publics  par  Franklin,  et  les  nombreux  "text- 
books" prepares  par  Samuel  Johnson  avaient  ete  Texpression  la 
plus  definie  et  la  plus  importante,  se  fut  rationalise  au  point  de 
ne  plus  etre  qu'une  forme  assez  imiocente  du  scepticisme  de 
Hume,  ceux  qui  d'abord  1 'avaient  accueilli  avec  empressement 
l'abandonnerent  peu  a  peu,  pour  y  substituer  la  philosophic 
ecossaise  que  son  caractere  eminemment  pratique  et  religieux, 
et  1 'expose  tres  clair  qu'en  avait  donne  Thomas  Reid,  recom- 
mandaient  si  bien  a  leur  attention. 

Ce  qui  dans  l'idealisme  de  Berkeley  avait  surtout  seduit  les 
dignes  continuateurs  de  l'ceuvre  de  Jonathan  Edwards,  un 
Thomas  Clapp18  et  un  Timothy  Dwight10  par  exemple,  c'etait 
bien  moms  le  probleme  de  la  connaissance  tel  que  le  posait  Berke- 
ley dans  sa  theorie  des  idees  et  des  volitions,  que  le  caractere 
essentiellement  moral  et  spiritualiste  des  conclusions  auxquelles 
avait  conduit  la  solution  du  probleme  en  question.    Aussi,  quand 


is  Thomas  Clapp  (1703-1767),  president  du  College  de  Yale,  auteur  de 
Foundation  of  Moral  Virtue  and  Obligation;  manque  d'originalite;  n'est 
pas  loin  de  s'en  tenir  a  toutes  les  conclusions  de  la  philosophic  d 'Edwards. 

is  Timothy  Dwight  (cf.  p.  366)  marque  assez  bien  la  transition,  en  theo- 
logie,  entre  Edwards  et  W.  E.  Channing;  en  philosophie,  entre  Locke  et 
Thomas  Eeid. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  373 

sous  1 'influence  du  rationalisme  du  18me  sieele  le  "phenome- 
nalisme"  de  Berkeley  fut  plus  ou  moins  confondu  avec  le  sen- 
sualisme  de  Locke,  tel  que  l'interpretait  Hume,  on  eprouva  I'im- 
perieux  besoin  d'une  philosophie  et  dune  doctrine  plus  capables 
de  concilier  les  postulats  de  la  raison  speculative  avec  les  exi- 
gences de  la  conscience  religieuse.  On  n'etait  pas  sans  s 'a \ >er- 
cevoir  de  toute  la  force  de  rargumentation  du  grand  sceptique 
anglais  sur  le  terrain  philosophique,  sans  prevoir  les  consequences 
funestes  qu 'avait  pour  la  morale  une  doctrine  qui,  non  seule- 
ment  niait  l'existence  de  Dieu  et  1 'immortalite  de  Tame,  mais 
aussi  faisait  de  la  conscience  le  produit  de  1 'habitude.  Des  lors, 
ce  furent  surtout  les  attaques  portees  par  Hume  contre  la  theo- 
logie  qui  provoquerent  la  reaction  dont  Reid  et  ses  disciples 
furent  en  Amerique  l'ame  et  1 'instrument,  reaction  dont  les 
commencements,  comme  nous  l'avons  signale,  coincident  assez 
bien  avec  la  nomination  a  la  presidence  du  college  de  Princeton 
de  John  Witherspoon. 

Si  1 'influence  exercee  sur  la  pensee  philosophique  americaine 
durant  la  seconde  moitie  du  18me  sieele  par  l'enseignement  du 
savant  ecossais  a  ete  reelle,  elle  ira  pas  ete  considerable.  La 
guerre  d  'independence,  qu'une  litterature  "pamphletaire"  con- 
siderable de  caractere  politique  avait  lentement  preparee,  l'ap- 
parition  des  ouvrages  de  Thomas  Paine,  toutes  les  luttes  et  les 
controverses20  auxquelles  avaient  donne  lieu  les  revolutions 
d 'Amerique  et  de  France,  avaient  considerablement  attenue  l'in- 
teret  qu'en  des  temps  plus  propices  on  avait  porte  aux  choses  de 
la  philosophie.  La  meme  remarque  s 'applique  aux  vingt  pre- 
mieres annees  du  19me  sieele.    Les  guerres  du  grand  empereur, 


211  Aux  temoignages  que  nous  avons  rapportes  en  faveur  de  1 'influence 
des  idees  frangaises  <le  la  fin  du  18me  sieele  sur  la  pensee  religieuse  el 
philosophique  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre,  il  y  a  lieu  d'ajouter  celui  de 
James  Freeman  Clarke:  "At  the  close  of  the  18th  Century,"  ecrivit  ce 
dernier   dans  un  article  qu'il  consacra  a  l'histoire  du  mouvement   anti- 

•esclavagiste  a  Boston  (Cf.  Memorial  History  of  Boston,  III,  p.  403),  "  Pr h 

infidelity  had  become  quite  current  in  New  England,  especially  among  the 
young  men.  Nowhere  was  this  more  common  than  among  the  young 
men  of  our  colleges,  .  .  .  advanced  thinkers  as  they  thought  them- 
selves to  be,  and  aspiring  to  be  leaders  of  public  opinion.  New  England 
was  never  at  a  lower  point  religiously,  as  seen  in  her  public  and  her 
private  life,  than  in  the  earliest  days  of  the  present  century." 


374  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

les  incertitudes  qu'elles  avaient  entretenues,  les  embarras  econo- 
miques  et  les  complications  diplomatiques  qu'elles  avaient  creees 
sur  le  continent  americain,  avaient  trop  ebranle  les  esprits  pour 
qu'on  eut  pu  songer  a  cultiver  une  science  dont  les  travaux  ne 
peuvent  etre  conduits  avec  profit  que  dans  le  silence  de  la  medi- 
tation et  dans  le  calme  de  la  reflexion. 

Ce  n'est  guere,  en  effet,  que  vers  1820,  c'est-a-dire  lorsque  les 
interminables  questions  de  morale  et  d'economie  politique  posees 
par  la  Revolution  francaise  et  discutees  librement  dans  les 
ouvrages  de  Paine  ainsi  que  dans  la  plupart  des  journaux  et  des 
revues  du  temps,  eurent  perdu  de  leur  acuite  et  de  leur  a  propos, 
qu'on  se  souvint  des  dangers  que  le  rationalisme  deiste  du  18me 
siecle  avait  fait  courir  a  l'orthodoxie  traditionnelle,  des  dangers, 
aussi,  auxquels  un  scepticisme  deja  fort  teinte  de  materialisme 
avait  expose  la  jeunesse  studieuse  des  colleges. 

Durant  toute  la  periode  revolutionnaire  aucun  ouvrage  phi- 
losophique  important  n 'avait  ete  public.  Malgre  1 'apparition, 
en  1765,  de  VEssay  on  th<  Natun  and  Foundations  of  Monti 
Virtue  and  Obligations,  compose  par  Thomas  Clapp  a  l'usage  des 
etudiants  du  college  de  Yale;  malgre  la  publication,  en  1796,  de 
Principles  of  Morality,  par  MacBride,  on  n'avait  guere  connne 
"text -books"  sur  le  sujet  qui  nous  occupe  que  1 'inevitable  essai 
de  Locke  sur  1  'entendement  humain  et  le  traite  de  morale  et 
d'economie  politique  compose  par  William  Paley.21  Les  ouvrages 
de  Reid,  auxquels  on  s'etait  vivement  interesse  au  moment  de  leur 
apparition,  avaient  ete  peu  a  peu  negliges,  a  cause  sans  doute  de 
toute  l'attention  qu'on  portait  aux  choses  de  la  revolution.  Ce 
ne  fut  guere  que  vers  1820  qu'on  se  reprit  a  discuter,  les  uns 
pour  la  defendre,  les  autres  pour  la  combattre,  la  pbilosophie 
ecossaise.    En  1822,  Frederic  Beasley22  faisait  paraitre  A  Search 


2i  William  Paley  (1743-1805),  auteur  de  Principles  of  Moral  and  Politi- 
cal Economy,  ouvrage  paru  en  1785,  auquel  furent  ajoutees  en  1853  une 
dissertation  et  des  notes  par  Alexandre  Bain.  Le  meme  ouvrage,  au- 
note  par  Whately,  parut  en  1859. 

--  Frederic  Beasley  (1777-1845),  professeur  de  morale  a  1 'university 
de  Pensylvanie  de  1813  a  1828;  auteur  de  A  Search  of  Truth  in  the  Science 
of  the  Human  Mind,  Part  I,  Philadelphia,  1822,  ouvrage  demeure  incomplet. 

Parmi    les    theologiens    qui,    a    cette   meme    epoque,    reprirent    et    dis- 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  375 

of  Truth  in  the  Science  of  the  Human  Mind,  dont  les  conclusions 
ne  contenaient  rien  moins  qu'une  defense  habile  du  sensualisme 
de  Locke,  en  tant  du  moins  que  ce  dernier  s'oppose  a  La  theorie 
de  la  connaissance  formulee  par  Reid,  theorie  en  vertu  de  laquelle 
la  connaissance  derive  de  l'experience  interne  et  n'a  ses  fonde- 
ments  que  dans  le  sens  commun.  A  cette  meme  epoque  Dugald 
Stewart,  le  fameux  professeur  d'Edimbourg,  tout  en  restant 
fidele  aux  methodes  d 'analyse  des  faits  d 'experience,  telles  que 
les  avait  adoptees  Reid,  et  poussant  plus  avant  des  recherdirs 
plus  exactes  dans  le  domaine  de  la  psychologie,  inaugurait  une 
philosophic  dont  le  retentissement  ne  tarda  pas  a  se  faire  sentir, 
non  seulement  en  Europe,  mais  aussi  dans  la  Nouvelle-Angle- 
terre. 

Ce  qui  attirait  a  Edimbourg  des  etudiants  de  tous  pays,  voire 
d'Amerique,  ce  n 'etait  pas  seulement  la  parole  eloquente  du 
brillant  conferencier  qu 'etait  Dugald  Stewart,  c'etait  aussi, 
c'etait  surtout  son  enseignement  profondement  serieux  d'une 
morale  qui  etait  a  elle  seule  presque  une  religion.  Incapable  de 
retourner  a  la  theologie  traditionnelle,  dont  les  conclusions 
surannees  faisaient  violence  a  la  raison  sans  rien  donner  au  cceur, 
basse  comme  on  1 'etait  de  toutes  les  utopies  qui  avaient  un  in- 
stant egare  les  esprits,  du  culte  de  la  raison  qui  ne  repondait  a 
rien  dans  les  profondeurs  de  l'ame,  d'un  scepticisme  dessechant 
dont  toutes  les  voies  avaient  mene  au  materialisme,  des  incerti- 
tudes dans  lesquelles  on  sentait  la  conscience  se  debattre,  on  ac- 
eueillit  avec  un  interet  qui  etait  presque  de  l'enthousiasme  une 
doctrine  qui  fondait  la  vertu  sur  les  droits  imprescriptibles  de 
la  conscience  et  du  coeur,  et  qui  insistait  sur  l'msuffisance  d'une 
science  qui,  parce  qu 'incapable  de  percevoir  autre  chose  que  de 
la  matiere,  ne  voyait  dans  la  pensee  et  dans  le  sentiment  que  le 
jeu  de  fonctions  creees  par  la  seule  sensation.  Vers  1825,  la 
philosophie  ecossaise  avait  a  ce  point  gain  de  cause  en  Amerique 


cuterent  au  point  de  vue  de  l'orthodoxie  traditionnelle  le  problome  du 
libre  arbitre,  le  probleme  aussi  de  la  nature  de  la  vertu,  il  faut  citer 
Nathanael  W.  Taylor  (1786-1858),  qui  fut  professeur  de  theologie  au 
college  de  Yale  de  1822  a  1858,  et  dont  les  nombreuses  publications 
forment  une  partie  importante  du  Quarterly  Christian  Spectator,  paru  en 
10  volumes  a  New  Haven,  de  1829-1839. 


376  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

que  les  ouvrages  de  Stewart23  y  furent  reimprimes  des  leur  ap- 
parition, et  devinrent,  sous  une  forme  abregee,  les  "text-books" 
favoris  des  colleges  les  plus  importants  de  la  Nouvelle-Angle- 
terre. 

Si  la  philosophie  ecossaise  fit  des  son  apparition  un  tres  grand 
nombre  d'adeptes,  elle  ne  manqua  pas  eependant  de  provoquer, 
par  endroits,  une  serieuse  opposition.  Malgre  le  progres  des 
idees  liberales  au  sein  meme  du  clerge,  la  plupart  des  calvinistes 
demeuraient  refractaires  a  toute  idee  nouvelle,  attaches  qu'ils 
etaient  aux  idees  trinitaires.  lis  persistaient  dans  leur  negation 
de  l'existence  du  libre  arbitre,  admettaient  sans  reserves  l'au- 
thenticite  historique  du  miracle  biblique,  croyaient  fermement 
a  l'inspiration  pleiniere  des  Ecritures.  lis  ne  voyaient  en  Dieu 
que  l'architecte  et  1 'administrateur  d'un  monde  qu'il  faut  une 
fois  pour  toutes  accepter  tel  qu'il  est,  sans  entretenir  1 'illusion 
presomptueuse  de  vouloir  l'expliquer  ou  de  pouvoir  l'ameliorer; 
ils  ne  voyaient  en  l'homme  qu'une  faible  creature  concue  et  nee 
dans  le  peche,  incapable  d'aucun  bien,  et  que  rien  ne  recom- 
mande  a  la  misericorde  de  son  Createur.  Qu'eussent  bien  pu 
faire  d'une  philosophie  qui  etait  la  negation  meme  du  de- 
terminisme,  les  partisans  d'une  theologie  etayee  uniquement  du 
sensualisme  de  Locke  ? 

L'intransigeance  des  calvinistes  orthodoxes,  que  la  reappari- 
tion  de  reveils  religieux,  entre  1780  et  1825,  avait  fait  revenir 
d  'un  commencement  de  tolerance  qu  'ils  avaient  montre  a  1  'egard 
des  idees  liberales  du  18me  siecle,  n'eut  d 'autre  resultat  que  de 
rendre  plus  effective,  meme  parmi  bon  nombre  de  puritains  tres 
attaches    aux    traditions    de    leurs    eglises,    l'opposition    que    le 


23L'ouvrage  de  Stewart  qui  peut-etre  exerqa  la  plus  grande  iufluenee 
daus  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  fut  son  traite  intitule  Active  Moral  Powers 
of  Man,  publie  en  1728,  et  cela  sans  doute  a  cause  des  nombreuses  dis- 
cussions qu'il  renferme  sur  des  questions  de  theologie  et  de  morale,  ques- 
tions auxquelles  on  commencjait  a  porter,  vers  1830,  le  plus  vif  interet. 
Cf.  Ueberweg,  p.  452. 

Les  conferences  de  Thomas  Brown  sur  la  philosophie  de  1  'esprit 
humain  (Philosophy  of  the  Human  Mind),  conferences  qui  avaient  paru 
a  Edimbourg  en  1820  (4  vol.  in  8),  avaient  ete,  elles  aussi,  accueillies  si 
favorablement  en  Amerique  que  Levi  Hedge  du  college  de  Harvard  en 
fit  paraitre  en  1827,  a  Boston,  une  edition  abregee,  que  plusieurs  profes- 
seurs  adopterent  comme  livre  de  classe. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalismt  :;77 

methodisme  d'une  part,  et  la  philosophic  ecossaise  d 'autre  part, 
faisaient  a  la  theologie  ealviuiste.  Durant  cette  meme  6poque 
nous  voyons,  en  effet,  se  former  et  grandir  rapidement  ee  groupe 
independant  de  Chretiens  liberaux  que  leur  commune  aversion 
pour  les  doctrines  trinitaires  fit  designer  de  bonne  heure  sous  le 
nom  d'unitaires.24  A  Boston  meme  et  dans  le  Massachusetts  la 
plupart  des  pasteurs  et  des  intellectuels,  entre  1815  et  1825,  se 
rattachaient  deja  a  cette  nouvelle  tendance.  Mais  si  tous  avaient 
fait  foin  de  la  doctrine  de  la  Trinite,  ils  etaient  loin  de  s 'entendre 
dans  leur  discussion  des  problemes  de  la  "  christologie. "  Si  les 
uns  persistaient  a  voir  en  Jesus-Christ  plus  qu'un  homme  et 
plus  qu'un  prophete,  a  croire  a  sa  preexistence  et  a  son  inter- 
cession, acceptaient  sans  vouloir  la  discuter  1  'authenticite  his- 
torique  des  miracles,  en  appelaient  a  la  Bible  comme  a  l'autorite 
indiscutable  en  toutes  matieres  de  religion  et  de  morale,  d'autres 
se  refusaient  a  discuter  le  probleme  des  deux  natures  dans  la 
personne  du  Christ,  se  contentant  de  voir  en  lui  l'exemple  a 
imiter,  le  maitre  dont  les  preceptes  ont  pour  tous  les  homines  une 
valeur  eternelle ;  d  'autres,  enfin,  moins  nombreux,  admettaient 
qu'il  ne  faut  voir  en  Jesus  qu'un  homme  semblable  a  nous  en 
toutes  choses,  et,  reprenant  pour  en  pousser  plus  loin  les  con- 
clusions, les  doctrines  du  deisme  anglais  du  siecle  precedent,  ne 
s'accommodaient  que  d'un  christianisme  qui  ne  fut  en  rien 
capable  d'offenser  la  raison,  et  d'une  morale  dont  les  arrets  in- 
faillibles  fussent  rendus  par  la  seule  conscience ;  la  connaissance 
etant  pour  eux  plus  que  la  foi,  la  pensee  plus  que  le  sentiment, 
tout  ce  qu'ils  mirent  de  bon  sens  et  de  froide  raison  dans  leur 
piete  et  dans  leur  culte  leur  fit  perdre,  peu  a  peu,  le  sens  veri- 
table de  radoration,  celui,  egalement,  du  mystere  et  de  l'inspira- 


24  Ce  n'est  guere  que  vers  1785  que  1  'unitafisme  devint  dans  la 
Nouvelle-Angleterre,  et  tout  specialement  a  Boston,  "a  substantial  real- 
ity." Malgre  1 'apparition,  en  1756,  d'une  edition  de  Humble  Inquiry, 
traite  dans  lequel  un  certain  Evelyn  niait  la  divinite  du  Christ,  aucun 
ehangement  liturgique  modifiant  en  quelque  maniere  que  ee  fut  la  teneur 
de  la  doctrine  trinitaire  n'avait  ete  tolere  avant  1785.  A  cette  date  seule- 
ment,  et  pour  complaire  au  desir  exprime  par  Eev.  James  Freeman  qui 
allait  en  devenir  le  conducteur  spirituel,  l'eglise  de  "King's  Chapel,"  a 
Boston,  supprima  de  sa  liturgie  tout  ce  qui  touchait  a  la  doctrine  de  la 
Trinite.  Cf.  The  Religious  History  of  the  Provincial  Period,  par  Rev. 
Alexander  McKenzie,  D.D.,  in  "Windsor,  Memorial  History  of  Boston.  II, 
pp.  246  et  247. 


378  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology      [Vol.4 

tion.  Done,  en  accentuant  legerement  des  lignes  que  la  realite 
montre  rarement  tres  precises,  nous  pouvons  distinguer,  a  la 
veille  meme  de  1 'apparition  du  transcendantalisme,  trois  groupes 
d'unitaires:  celui  des  orthodoxes  que  representa  en  particulier 
W.  E.  Channing  durant  la  premiere  moitie  de  son  ministere 
pastoral ;  celui  des  liberaux  dans  lequel  nous  verrons  figurer  plus 
tard  George  Ripley  et  Theodore  Parker ;  celui,  enfin,  des  rationa- 
listes  dont  Emerson  sera  le  representant  le  plus  distingue. 

Avec  1 'introduction  en  Amerique  de  la  philosophic  ecossaise 
sous  la  forme  qu'elle  prit  dans  les  ecrits  de  Reid,  de  Stewart  et 
de  Hamilton;  avec  1 'organisation  des  unitaires  en  corps  cons- 
titue,  en  1825,  nous  touchons  a  cette  epoque  de  la  vie  intel- 
lectuelle  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  ou,  sous  1 'influence  simultanee 
de  la  philosophic  allemande  et  de  l'eclectisme  francais,  nous 
voyons  se  former  ce  courant  important  de  pensee  religieuse, 
philosophique  et  sociale  qu'on  designa  sous  le  nom  de  transcen- 
dantalisme. 

Ce  n'est  pas  chose  aisee  que  d'etablir  clairement  ce  qu'on 
veut  designer  par  ce  neologisme  plus  commode  que  precis.  Ceux 
qui  se  sont  essay  e  a  cette  tache  difficile  sont  loin  d'etre  d 'accord 
sur  la  definition  qu'il  convient  de  lui  donner. 

Le  but  que  nous  nous  proposons  n'est  pas  de  marcher  sur 
les  traces  de  ceux  qui  avant  nous  ont  tente  de  remonter  tous  les 
courants  d'idees  qui,  a  l'endroit  ou  nous  les  voyons  se  rejoindre, 
forment  le  transcendantalisme,  mais  seulement  d'etudier  le 
mouvement  qui  nous  occupe,  sous  un  de  ses  aspects  les  plus  gene- 
ralement  negliges  et  que  nous  croyons  un  des  plus  importants, 
nous  voulons  dire,  dans  ses  origines  franchises.  Et  pour  ce  faire, 
apres  en  avoir  indique  les  caracteres  generaux,  ce  qui  nous  per- 
mettra  d  'en  degager  peu  a  peu  les  aspects  essentiels  sous  lesquels 
il  se  presente,  nous  l'etudierons  successivement  aux  points  de  vue 
religieux,  philosophique  et  social,  dans  sa  definition,  d'abord,  ce 
qui  est  absolument  indispensable  pour  des  raisons  que  nous 
avons  dites  ailleurs,  puis,  plus  specialement,  dans  ses  origines 
francaises. 


PREMIERE    PARTIE 

DU    TRANSGENDANTALISME    GONSIDERE 

SOUS    SON    ASPECT    RELIGIEUX 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  381 


CHAPITRE  I 

CARACTERES  GENERAUX  DU 
TRANSCENDANTALISME 

L 'introduction  que  nous  venons  de  quitter  nous  a  conduits 
jusqu'a  cette  epoque  de  l'histoire  de  la  pensee  religieuse  et  phi- 
losophique  en  Amerique  ou,  sous  l'influence  de  la  philosophic 
ecossaise  et  beaucoup  plus  encore  sous  celle  de  toutes  les  idees  de 
reforme  que  les  revolutions  d 'Amerique  et  de  Prance  avaient 
suscitees  et  mises  en  circulation,  s'etaient  constitutes  dans  la 
Nouvelle-Angleterre,  a  Boston  en  particulier,  les  eglises  uni- 
taires.  Celles-ci  qui,  de  1785  a  1825,  n 'avaient  en  somme  groupe 
que  des  Chretiens  orthodoxes,  que  seules  leurs  tendances  ariennes 
permettaient  de  distinguer  de  leurs  freres  trinitaires,  ne  tar- 
derent  pas  a  devenir  le  foyer  d  'un  liberalisme  qui  ne  s  'accommo- 
dait  plus  des  formes  bien  arretees  d  'un  culte  trop  f ormaliste,  non 
plus  que  d'une  dogmatique  a  laquelle,  dans  l'eglise,  on  paraissait 
donner  plus  d 'importance  qu'a  l'evangile  lui-meme. 

Chose  importante  a  noter — et  c'est  pour  ne  1 'avoir  pas 
signalee  avec  suffisamment  d'insistance  que  les  historiens  du 
transcendantalisme  n'ont  pas  su  donner  a  l'influence  du  spiri- 
tualisme  francais  sur  la  formation  de  ce  mouvement  l'importance 
qu'elle  merite — ce  liberalisme  que  nous  voyons  se  former  au  sein 
meme  des  eglises  unitaires,  et  dont  l'objet  immediat  etait  la  re- 
habilitation integrale  d'un  libre  examen  de  toutes  questions  de 
theologie,  de  morale  et  de  religion  soulevees  par  le  texte  meme 
des  saintes  Ecritures,  s 'etait  fraye  deux  voies  bien  distinctes  et 
si  differentes  qu'elles  finirent  par  s'eloigner  considerablement 
l'une  de  l'autre.  Defendu  d'une  part  par  des  esprits  desireux 
de  revendiquer,  au  nom  de  la  nature  humaine  integrale,  d'une 
nature  humaine  participant  de  la  bonte  et  des  perfections  de  son 
createur,  les  droits  imprescriptibles  de  la  conscience  et  du  cceur, 


382  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

le  liberalisme  des  eglises  unitaires  aboutit  a  un  spiritualisme  re- 
ligieux  dont  les  formes  devenues  de  plus  en  plus  vagues,  se  con- 
fondent  peu  a  peu,  en  maints  endroits,  avec  celles  de  l'idealisme 
neo-platonicien  de  la  philosophie  allemande ;  defendu  d 'autre 
part  par  des  esprits  desireux  de  sauvegarder,  au  nom  de  ce  meme 
utilitarisme  qui,  vingt  ans  plus  tot,  avait  assure  en  Amerique  le 
succes  de  la  philosophie  de  Thomas  Reid,  les  interets  du  sens 
commun  et  de  la  raison  pratique,  il  avait  abouti  au  rationalisme 
teinte  d'idealisme  platonicien  qu 'illustrerent  si  brillamment  les 
ecrits  d 'Emerson. 

Ces  deux  courants  de  liberalisme  que  nous  venons  de  signaler 
dans  les  eglises  unitaires  correspondent  assez  bien  a  deux  phases 
distinctes,  Tune  specifiquement  religieuse,  1 'autre  specifiquement 
philosophique,  du  transcendantalisme ;  la  premiere  s'etendant  de 
1825  a  18401  et  affectee  prineipalement  par  le  spiritualisme  des 
ecrits  de  Mme.  de  Stael,  de  Benjamin  Constant  et  de  Theodore 
Jouffroy,  la  seconde,  pouvant  tenir  place  entre  1840  et  1850,  et 
affectee  essentiellement  par  l'idealisme  de  la  philosophie  alle- 
mande, et  cela  plus  encore  dans  les  formes  que  lui  preterent 
Coleridge,  Victor  Cousin,  et  Carlyle,  que  dans  celles  que  leur 
donnerent  Kant,  Fichte,  et  Schelling. 

Ces  chretiens  liberaux  qui  n'avaient  plus  en  commun  avec 
les  calvinistes  trinitaires  ainsi  qu'avec  leurs  freres  orthodoxes 
que  leur  croyance  a  1 'existence  de  Dieu,  a  l'immortalite  de  l'ame 
et  a  la  necessite  de  f  aire  le  bien ;  ces  chretiens  dont  les  uns,  tels 
Channing  et  Ripley,  entendaient  faire  au  nom  des  exigences  du 
coeur  et  de  la  conscience  une  application  integrate  des  principes 
moraux  de  l'Evangile  a  la  vie  de  l'individu  ainsi  qu'a  celle  de  la 
societe ;  dont  les  autres,  tels  Thoreau  et  Emerson,  au  nom  des 
postulats  de  la  raison,  se  faisaient  les  apotres  de  l'individualisme 
le  plus  intransigeant,  ne  sont  autres  que  les  unitaires  auxquels 
leurs  adversaires,  a  une  date  qui  reste  encore  a  determiner,  don- 
nerent le  nom  de  transcendantalistes.     Ce  faisant,  les  defenseurs 


i  Nous  n  'eerivons  ces  dates  que  pour  mettre  un  peu  de  elarte  dans  notre 
exposition.  Elles  ne  marquent  ni  le  point  de  depart,  ni  la  fin  d  'un  courant 
de  pensee  bien  defini,  mais  seulement  le  moment  approximatif  ou  eette 
pensee  commence  a,  changer  d 'aspect  ou  de  direction. 


1916]  Girard:  Da  transcendantalisme  383 

de  la  theologie  traditionnelle  firent  d'une  expression  dont  Kant 
ne  s'etait  servi  que  dans  sa  nomenclature  metaphysique  un  terme 
de  reproche  a  l'adresse  de  gens  qu'ils  soupeonnaient  tenir  des 
philosophes  allemands  des  idees  et  des  principes  qu'ils  devaient 
davantage  au  spiritualisme  franeais.2 

Lorsque  Kant  employa  l'adjectif  "transcendantal,"3  il  l'ap- 
pliqua,  d'une  part,  au  monde  des  choses  en  soi,  d 'autre  part,  aux 
elements  de  la  theorie  de  la  connaissance.  Dans  le  premier  cas, 
cet  adject  if  servit  a  caracteriser  des  choses  dont  la  connaissance 
depasse  les  limites  possibles  de  1 'experience,  des  choses  dont  nous 
ignorons  la  nature  intrinseque,  et  dont  nous  ne  saisissons  que  les 
apparences  que  leur  prete  le  rapport  existant  entre  ces  choses 
elles-memes  et  les  sens  ou  les  f  acultes  qui  les  percoivent ;  dans  le 
second  cas,  il  designa  un  certain  nombre  de  concepts  irreducti- 
bles  que  nous  exprimons  par  des  mots  tels  que  "temps," 
"espace,"  "causalite,"  et  qui,  tout  en  etant  des  concepts  sans 
lesquels  toute  experience  est  impossible,  sont  anterieurs  a  cette 
experience. 

Si  Ton  veut  bien  se  souvenir  que  lorsque  Emmanuel  Kant 
designe  comme  transcendantales  un  certain  nombre  d 'idees 
premieres,  de  formes  imperatives  dont  nous  avons  conscience 
sans  etre  jamais  capables  de  les  analyser,  il  n'a  autre  chose  en 
vue  que  le  sensualisme  de  Locke  qu'il  s 'applique  a  refuter,  nous 
verrons  apparaitre  le  premier  point  de  contact  que  nous  puis- 
sions  etablir  entre  la  philosophic  allemande  et  le  transcendan- 
talisme,  point   de  contact   qu'il   faut   signaler  sans  y  attacber, 


2  Les  historiens  du  transcendantalisme,  MM.  I.  Woodbridge  Riley  et 
H.  C.  Goddard  en  partieulier,  dans  leur  insistanee  a  faire  d  'Emerson 
lime  et  le  porte-parole  des  transcendantalistes,  tandis  qu'il  n  'en  etait 
que  le  disciple  le  plus  distingue,  et  meme  un  disciple  tres  infidele  a  ses 
heures,  ne  pouvaient  manquer  d  'attribuer  a  la  philosophic  allemancle  une 
influence  exageree  sur  le  mouvement  que  nous  etudions.  Ce  faisant,  ils 
paraissaient  oublier  qu 'entre  1830  et  1835,  c 'est-a-dire  avant  meme  la 
publication  de  Nature,  le  premier  des  ouvrages  parus  d 'Emerson,  et  bien 
avant  que  l'idealisme  allemand  eut  eu  en  Amerique  d'autres  interpretes 
que  Mme.  de  Stael  et  Coleridge,  le  transcendantalisme,  grace  en  par- 
ticulier a  l'activite  litteraire  ineessante  de  W.  E.  Channing,  avait  deja 
acquis  ses  formes  authenticities  les  plus  originales  et  les  plus  essentielles. 

3  Kant  ne  fut  pas  le  premier  a  se  servir  du  mot  transcendantal.  Duns 
Scot  et  les  homines  de  son  temps  rappliquaient  deja  a  celles  <le  nos 
connaissanees  qui  ont  un  caractere  considerable  d'universalite. 


384  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

toutefois,  plus  d 'importance  qu'il  ne  merite,  pour  la  raison  que 
voici :  quand,  a  1  'instar  du  philosophe  de  Koenigsberg,  les  trans- 
cendantalistes  s'appliquerent  a  refuter  le  sensualisme  de  Locke, 
ils  n 'emprunterent  leurs  arguments  ni  a  Emmanuel  Kant,  ni  a 
aucun  de  ses  disciples  immediats,4  mais  aux  dissertations  de 
Price,5  a  la  philosophic  de  Eeid  et  de  Stewart,  et  puis,  surtout, 
a  celle  de  Victor  Cousin,  popularised  par  la  publication,  en  1834, 
des  Elements  of  Psychology,  par  C.  S.  Henry.6  Ce  qui  les  pre- 
occupait  avant  tout,  c'etait  bien  moins  la  recherche  d'une  theorie 
de  la  connaissance  capable  de  repondre  a  toutes  les  exigences 
logiques  de  la  metaphysique  que  celle  d'une  philosophie  capable 
de  justifier  1 'existence  universelle  et  la  valeur  eternelle  du  senti- 
ment religieux.  Instruits  comme  ils  l'etaient  des  conclusions 
auxquelles  avait  about i  la  philosophie  de  Locke,  conclusions  dont 
les  calvinistes,  a  tort  ou  a  raison,  probablement  plus  a  tort  qu'a 
raison,  etayaient  en  particulier  leur  doctrine  du  peche  originel 
et  de  la  corruption  universelle,  ils  s'en  furent  a  la  recherche 
d 'arguments  capables   de   renverser   le   sensualisme,   arguments 


•*  C  'est  pour  n  'avoir  pas  insiste  sur  ce  point  important,  ou  pour  1  'avoir 
meconnu,  que  les  historiens  du  niouvement  que  nous  etudions  confondent 
frequemment  1 'influence  qu'a  eue  sur  la  formation  de  ce  dernier  la 
philosophie  allemande,  avec  celle  qu'il  faut  attribuer  a  la  philosophie 
ecossaise  ainsi  qu'a  l'eclectisme  franc,ais. 

3  Dr.  Richard  Price  (1723-1791),  pasteur  et  professeur  anglais,  est 
l'auteur  de  tres  nombreux  articles  de  theologie,  de  philosophie  et  d'eco- 
nomie  politique,  parus  a  Londres  dans  les  Philosophical  Transactions.  11  fit 
paraitre,  en  1758,  A  Bevit  w  of  tht  Principal  Questions  ami  Difficulties  in 
Morals,  en  1772.  Tin  Naturt  ami  Dignity  of  the  Human  Soul.  etc.  11  fut 
en  religion  un  precurseur  du  niouvement  unitaire,  en  philosophie  uu 
anient  defenseur  de  la  plupart  des  idees  de  Priestley.  Vers  1840,  W.  E. 
('banning  eerivait:  "  ...  I  read  Price  when  I  was  at  college.  Price 
saved  me  from  Locke's  philosophy.  He  gave  me  the  doctrine  of  ideas 
.  .  .;  That  book  [Price's  Dissertations]  probably  moulded  my  philosophy 
to  the  form  it  has  always  retained."  A  propos  d'une  lecture  qu'il  venait 
de  faire  de  certains  ecrits  de  Jouffroy,  il  faisait  cette  remarque,  qui  ne 
manque  pas  d'interet  pour  le  sujet  cpii  nous  occupe:  "Jouffroy  says  that 
Dr.  Price's  Dissertations  were  translated  into  German  at  the  time  of  their 
first  appearance,  and  produced  much  greater  impression  there  than  they 
did  in  England;  and  he  thinks  that  they  were  the  first  movers  of  the 
German  mind  in  the  transcendental  direction. ' '  (Memoir  of  William  Ellery 
Chun  ni  ug.  p.  66.) 

o  Elements  of  Psychology,  included  in  a  critical  examination  of  Locke's 
Essay  on  the  Human  Understanding;  premiere  edition,  New  York,  1834; 
deuxieme  edition,  1S3S;  troisieme  edition,  1842,  reproduce  a  Londres  en 
1851;   quatrieme  edition,  tres  augmentee,  en  1S56. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisirn  385 

qu'ils  trouverent,  comme  nous  venons  de  l'indiquer,  non  dans  la 
critique  que  les  philosophes  allemands  avaient  faite  du  systeme 
de  Locke,  mais  dans  la  philosophie  ecossaise  et  l'ecleetisme  de 
Victor  Cousin. 

Ce  qui  preoccupe  avant  tout  des  homines  tels  que  Channing, 
Ripley  et  Theodore  Parker,  qui  furent  Tame  meme  du  trans- 
cendantalisme,  ee  sont  bien  moins  les  lois  qui  president  aux 
operations  de  l'esprit,  que  les  forces  mysterieuses  et  toujours 
actives  que  recele  Tame  humaine.  II  leur  importe  pen  de  savoir 
comment  ces  forces  agissent ;  ils  veulent  seulement  que  1  'honime, 
reconnaissant  leur  existence,  s 'applique  a  faire  disparaitre  tous 
les  obstacles  qui  l'empeehent  d'obeir  aux  impulsions  qu'elles 
creent.  Des  lors,  an  lieu  de  chercher  a  prouver  par  la  voie  du 
raisonnement  l'existence  on  la  non-existence  des  idees,  ils  admet- 
tent  simplement,  avec  Reid,  Stewart,  et  Jouffroy,  et  eela  en  oppo- 
sition a  la  fameuse  doctrine  que  Locke  faisait  tenir  tout  entiere 
dans  l'axiome  eonnu :  nihil  intellects  quod  non  prius  in  sensu — 
ils  admettaient,  disons-nous,  l'existence  dans  l'ame  humaine  de 
certaines  intuitions,  causes  premieres  de  toute  vie  religieuse  et 
morale,  independantes  de  toute  experience  sensible,  et  anterieures 
a  tout  raisonnement. 

Partant  de  ee  principe,  que  l'homme  a,  par  intuition,  con- 
science de  verites  religieuses  et  morales  independantes  du  raison- 
nement, de  verites  qui  ne  doivent  rien  a  une  education  qui  les 
eut  enseignees  non  plus  qu'a  une  autorite  qui  les  eut  imposees  on 
sanctionnees.  le  transeendantalisme  s'opposait  par  ce  fait  meme. 
dune  part  au  calvinisme  traditionnel,  d'autre  part  an  sen- 
sualisme  philosophique  de  Locke.  Le  calvinisme,  en  effet,  comme 
nous  avons  eu  l'occasion  de  le  voir,  n'admettait  point  que 
l'homme  fut  capable  de  connaitre  aucune  verite  d'ordre  spirituel 
sans  qu'il  eut  ete  prealablement  Lob  jet  d'une  grace  speciale  de 
Dieu ;  le  sensualisme.  de  son  cote,  faisant  deriver  toute  idee,  soit 
de  la  sensation,  soit  de  la  reflexion  produite  par  la  sensation, 
n'admettant  point  l'existence  des  idees  innees,  ne  pouvait  aise- 
ment  echapper  au  reproche  de  faire  deriver  le  sentiment  re- 
ligieux  de  1 'impression  produite  par  le  monde  exterieur  sur  les 


3S6  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology      [Vol.4 

sens,  et  de  faire  du  sentiment  moral  la  produit  de  l'habitude  et 
de  l'education. 

En  outre,  tandis  que  les  defenseurs  de  la  theologie  et  de  la 
philosophic  traditionnelles  s'entendaient  a  declarer  que  rien  dans 
la  nature  humaine  ne  pouvant  etre  change  sans  1 'intervention 
eonstante  et  miraculeuse  de  la  Providence,  il  etait  inutile  de 
songer  a  reorganiser  la  societe,  sous  pretexte  de  l'ameliorer;  les 
partisans  de  la  nouvelle  doctrine,  au  nom  des  postulats  du  cceur 
et  de  la  conscience,  de  ces  intuitions  que  l'homme  possede  du 
bien,  de  la  justice  et  du  devoir,  voulaient  qu'on  fit  une  applica- 
tion integrate  des  principes  moraux  de  1'Evangile,  a  la  vie  de 
l'individu,  ainsi  qu'a  celle  de  la  societe. 

Les  quelques  rapprochements  et  constatations  preliminaires 
que  nous  venons  de  faire  nous  permettent  done  d'etablir  que  le 
transcendantalisme,  tel  que  nous  le  voyons  apparaitre  deja  entre 
1825  et  1836,  se  presente  sous  trois  aspects  qu'il  n'est  pas  toujours 
aise  de  distinguer  et  que  nous  avons  indiques,  principalement, 
pour  la  commodite  de  notre  exposition,  savoir:  premierement, 
sous  1 'aspect  d'un  nouvel  evangile  qui,  repudiant  les  doctrines 
de  la  theologie  calviniste  traditionnelle,  fera  de  1'ame  humaine 
et  non  plus  seulement  des  saintes  Ecritures  la  source  unique  de 
rinspiration  religieuse ;  ensuite,  sous  celui  d'une  doctrine  philo- 
sophique  qui,  s'opposant  au  sensualisme  de  Locke,  preconise 
l'existence  de  verites  morales  dont  l'homme  a  conscience  par  une 
intuition  independante  de  l'experience  sensible  et  anterieure  a 
tout  raisonnement ;  enfin,  sous  celui  d'une  tentative  de  reforme 
sociale,  destinee  a  assurer  a  chaque  individu  le  libre  developpe- 
ment  de  sa  personnalite. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transct  ndantalismt  387 


CHAPITBE  II 

DEFINITION  DU  TRANSCENDANTALISME  CONSIDERE 

SOUS  SON  ASPECT  RELIGIEUX 

Au  point  de  vue  religieux,  le  transcendantalisme  se  presente 
sous  la  forme  d'un  nouvel  evangile,  qui,  rejetant  la  conception 
traditionnelle  de  1 'inspiration  des  Ecritures,  en  meme  temps  que 
celles  de  la  revelation  et  du  miracle  bibliques,  etablit  le  fonde- 
ment  du  sentiment  religieux  uniquement  sur  un  fait  de  con- 
science etranger  a  toute  interpretation  de  l'Ancien  et  du  Nou- 
veau  Testament. 

Les  calvinistes,  satisfaits  de  s'en  remettre  une  fois  pour  toutes 
aux  conclusions  bien  arretees  que  leur  dogmatique  avait  su  tirer 
de  leur  interpretation  des  saintes  Ecritures,  avaient  declare 
l'homme  concu  et  ne  dans  le  peche,  incapable  d'aucun  bien 
lorsqu'il  n'est  point  l'objet  d'une  grace  divine  speciale  ;  les  trans- 
cendantalistes,  au  contraire,  instruits  des  resultats  auxquels 
avaient  conduit  certaines  decouvertes  scientifiques  et  surtout  la 
critique  historique  de  l'Ancien  et  du  Nouveau  Testament,  en 
etaient  arrives  peu  a  pen  a  faire  une  distinction  entre  ce  qui, 
dans  la  Bible,  est  Texpression  d'une  verite  religieuse  ou  morale, 
et  ce  qui  est  etranger  a  cette  verite,  entre  ce  qui  est  l'oeuvre  de 
l'ecrivain  inspire  et  ce  qui  doit  etre  attribue  a  quelque  com- 
mentateur  dogmatisant,  entre  ce  qui  est  histoire  et  ce  qui  est 
legende,  entre  ce  que  la  critique  permet  de  considerer  comme 
texte  original,  et  ce  qu'elle  designe  comme  interpolation. 

II  resultait  de  cette  nouvelle  maniere  d'etudier  et  de  com- 
prendre  la  Bible  que  celle-ci  ne  pouvait  plus,  prise  dans  son  en- 
semble, constituer  Tautorite  infaillible  a  laquelle  on  eut  a  en  ap- 
peler  en  toutes  choses  interessant  le  salut  de  l'ame  humaine,  et 
que  son  temoignage  ne  pouvait  etre  accepte  que  lorsqu'il  repon- 
dait  aux  postulats  imprescriptibles  de  la  conscience  et  du  cceur. 
D'exterieure  et  d  'objective  qu 'avait  ete  depuis  la  Reforme  l'au- 
torite  des  saintes  Ecritures,  elle  devint  interieure  et  subjective. 


388  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

On  l'avait  fait  tenir  dans  un  passage  biblique ;  elle  sera  desormais 
dans  la  conscience  de  l'homme  de  bien. 

La  revelation,  qui  avait  ete  comprise  par  la  theologie  tradi- 
tionnelle  eomme  une  succession  frequemment  interrompue  d'eve- 
nements  extraordinaires,  surnaturels,  dont  Dieu  seul  etait  cause, 
dont  les  prophetes,  Jesus,  et  les  apotres  n'avaient  en  somme  ete 
que  de  passifs  instruments,  venait  ainsi  prendre  sa  place  dans 
l'ordre  des  phenomenes  natnrels,  et  sera  considered  par  les  parti- 
sans de  la  nouvelle  doctrine,  non  comme  le  resultat  de  l'inspira- 
tion  de  certains  hommes  exceptionnels,  auxquels  Dieu  aurait 
revele  ses  mysteres  et  ses  volontes,  mais  comme  l'etat  d'ame  cons- 
tant et  nniversel,  grace  auquel  tons  les  hommes  ont,  par  intui- 
tion, connaissance  de  Dieu  et  de  ses  attributs.  Get  etat  d'ame 
qui  n  'a  rien  d  'exceptionnel,  et  se  trouve  etre  ainsi,  tout  a  la  f ois, 
revelation  et  sentiment  religieux,  est  done  independant  de  toute 
interpretation  des  livres  de  l'Ancien  et  du  Nouveau  Testament, 
de  toute  confession  de  foi  que  tels  conciles  ou  telles  eglises  ont 
juge  a  propos  de  formuler;  il  ne  repose  point  sur  l'authenticite 
historique  de  certains  passages  bibliques,  mais  uniquement  sur 
un  fait  de  conscience  independant  de  toute  autorite  exterieure. 

Quant  aux  faits  que  la  Bible  designe  sous  le  nom  de  miracles 
— nous  continuous  a  nous  placer  au  point  de  vue  des  transcen- 
dantalistes — ils  ne  sauraient  s'appliquer  qu'a  des  phenomenes 
dont  le  caractere  surnaturel  n'eut  pu  etre  constate  que  par  des 
hommes  ayant  a  leur  disposition  les  moyens  scientifiques  in- 
dispensables  a  leur  verification  et  dont  la  realite,  supposee  l'au- 
thenticite historique  des  passages  qui  les  relatent,  devrait  etre 
attribute  a  l'existence  de  lois  a  nous  inconnues,  de  lois  que  nous 
n'avons  pas  le  droit  de  nier  pour  la  seule  raison  que  nous  les 
ignorons,  et  dont  nous  ne  saurions  voir  se  produire  en  nous  les 
effets  extraordinaires,  puisque  notre  vie  n'est  point  celle  que 
veeurent  le  Christ,  les  saints  ou  les  prophetes.  Tel  fut  en  somme 
1 'argument  dont  se  servirent  quelques  ministres  unitaires,  pro- 
mot  eurs  du  mouvement  que  nous  etudions,  pour  rejeter  l'autorite 
du  miracle  biblique  en  matiere  religieuse,  apres  avoir  rejete  celle 
de  1 'inspiration  pleniere  des  Ecritures  et  celle  de  la  revelation. 


1916]  Girard:  Da  transcendantalisme  389 

En  precisant  comme  nous  venons  de  le  faire  les  termes  de 
notre  exposition,  nous  ne  croyons  point  faire  dire  aux  transeen- 
dantalistes  autre  chose  que  ce  qu'ils  ont  exprimS  eux-memes, 
occasionnellement,  au  cours  de  leurs  ecrits,  sur  ce  premier  asped 
d'une  doctrine  dont  les  formes  sont  si  fugitives,  si  difficiles  a 
saisir,  qu'on  est  toujours  en  crainte  d'y  ajouter  des  elements  qui 
ne  lui  appartiennent  pas.1 

Emerson,  place  mieux  que  personne  pour  etudier  le  trans- 
cendantalisme, et  cela  non  seulement  parce  qu'il  vecut  au  moment 
opportun  pour  ce  faire,  mais  aussi  parce  que,  trop  individualiste 
et  trop  rationaliste  de  nature  pour  se  sentir  porte  une  fois  pour 
toutes  vers  des  gens  dont  il  ne  partageait  ni  le  meme  enthou- 
siasme  religieux,  ni  les  memes  tendances  humanitaires — n'ou- 
blions  pas  qu'il  se  tint  toujours  a  l'ecart  de  leurs  eglises  et  de 
leurs  phalansteres — il  se  trouva  par  la  meme  capable  de  l'ana- 
lyser  de  facon  objective,  caracterisait  comme  suit  le  mouvement 
qui  nous  occupe :  ' '  Transcendentalism, ' '  dit  le  sage  de  Concord, 
' '  as  viewed  by  its  disciples,  was  a  pilgrimage  from  the  idolatrous 
world  of  creeds  and  rituals  to  the  temple  of  the  Living  God  in  the 
soul.  It  was  a  putting  to  silence  of  tradition  and  formulas,  that 
the  Sacred  oracle  might  be  heard  through  intuitions  of  the  single- 
eyed  and  pure-hearted."2 

Theodore  Parker,  que  ses  nombreuses  relations  avec  Chan- 
ning  et  Ripley,  1  'interet  qu  'il  porta  a  toutes  leurs  entreprises,  le 
fait,  aussi,  qu'il  prit  une  part  active  aux  controverses  que  la 
nouvelle  doctrine  suscita  parmi  les  unitaires,  autorisaient  a  parler 
avec  autorite  sur  le  meme  sujet,  caracterisait  comme  suit 
1  'idealisme  religieux  et  philosophique  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre : 

Transcendentalism  admits  a  religious  faculty,  element,  or  nature  in  man, 
as  it  admits  a  moral,  intellectual,  and  sensational  faculty;  that  man,  by 
nature,  is  a  religious  being  as  well  as  moral,  intellectual,  and  sensational; 

i  ' '  New  England  's  Transcendentalism  has  never  been  defined.  It  was 
because  Emerson  and  his  followers  exalted  that  innate  knowledge,  this 
wisdom  from  within  and  from  above  that  they  were  called  transcen- 
dentalists. "     (Long,  American  Literature,  p.  280). 

2  Memoirs  of  Margaret  Fuller,  II,  p.  11  "Transcendentalism,"  fierivait 
aussi  Emerson,  "is  God  communicated  himself  to  man.  The  nature  of 
these  revelations  is  always  the  same;  they  are  perceptions  of  the  abso- 
lute law."  (Emerson's  Works,  Centenary  Edition,  pp.  289,  292). 


390  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

that  this  religious  faculty  is  adequate  to  its  purposes  anil  wants,  as  much 
so  as  the  others,  as  the  eye  acquainting  us  with  light;  and  that  this 
faculty  is  the  source  of  religious  emotions,  of  the  sentiment  of  ardor, 
worship.  Through  this  we  have  consciousness  of  God,  as  through  the 
senses  consciousness  of  matter.  In  connection  with  reason  it  gives  us 
the  primary  ideas  of  religious  ideas  which  transcend  experienced 

Sous  son  aspect  religieux  le  transcendantalisme  se  presente 
done  a  nous  comme  l'expression,  assez  vague  d'abord,  puis  de  plus 
en  plus  precise,  du  liberalisme  qui  se  fit  jour  dans  les  eglises 
unitaires  entre  1825  et  1840.  S'opposant  tout  a  la  fois  a  la 
theologie  calviniste  traditionnelle  ainsi  qu'au  formalisme  des 
unitaires  ortbodoxes  qui,  eux  aussi,  faisaient  reposer  l'autorite 
du  sentiment  sur  une  interpretation  litterale  des  Ecritures,  sur 
le  caractere  surnaturel  de  la  revelation  et  du  miracle  biblique, 
l'autorite  du  sentiment  religieux,  ils  donnerent  a  ce  dernier, 
comme  fondement,  un  fait  de  conscience  indemontrable,  in- 
separable de  notre  personnalite,  dont  il  assure  le  developpement. 
Que  ce  fait  de  conscience,  que  cette  intuition  que  nous  possedons 
de  la  verite  religieuse,  s  'aff aiblisse  sous  Taction  de  forces  op- 


s  Parker's  Works.     Centenary  Edition,  vol.  6,  p.  32. 

II  n'est  pas  sans  interet  d'ajouter  aux  temoignages  d 'Emerson  et  de 
Parker  ceux  de  quelques  autres  transcendantalistes,  tels  que  nous  les 
avons  releves  dans  leurs  eerits.  "Transcendentalism,"  ecrit  Margaret 
Fuller,  "was  an  assertion  of  the  inalienable  integrity  of  man.  the  im- 
manence of  Divinity  in  instinct."     (Memoirs  of  Mar;/.  Fuller,  II,  p.  11). 

"Man,"  ecrivait  W.  E.  Channing,  "may  entirely  trust  the  revelation 
of  God,  given  in  human  nature,  in  conscience,  reason,  love,  and  will." 
I  Works,  p.  928). 

"Every  man  is  a  transcendentalist, "  lisons-nous  dans  le  Dial,  "and 
all  true  faith,  the  motives  of  all  just  action,  are  transcendental."  (Dial, 
II,  p.  87). 

"The  transcendental  doctrine  is  the  substantive,  indwelling  spirit 
of  the  soul,  the  real  conscience,  the  religious  nature,  the  source  of  the 
inner  light,  the  veritable  true,  good  and  beautiful,  not  as  perception,  as 
contemplation,  but  as  substance,  as  being."     (Dial,  III,  p.  411). 

C  'est  bien  ainsi,  egalement,  que  comprirent  le  transcendantalisme  les 
historiens  de  la  philosophie  en  Amerique  les  plus  autorises,  un  Riley,  un 
Frothingham,  par  exemple.  ' '  Man  has  by  his  spiritual  nature, ' '  ainsi 
s  'exprinie  Riley,  "an  intuitive  knowledge  of  God,  as  a  being  infinite  and 
absolute  in  power,  wisdom,  and  goodness,  a  direct  perception  like  to  that 
which  the  senses  have  of  matter."  (American  Philosophy,  p.  7);  "Tran- 
scendentalism," ecrit  Frothingham,  "was  a  movement  within  the  limits 
of  liberal  Christianity  or  Unitarianism  as  it  was  called,  and  had  none 
but  a  religious  aspect."  (Transcendentalism  in  New  England,  p.  53); 
voir  aussi  Cooke,  Ralph  Walao  Emerson,  p.  53:  "Transcendentalism  identi- 
fied morality  and  religion  and  made  intuition  their  source." 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  391 

posees  a  son  epanouissement,  il  en  resultera  que  nous  nous 
eloign erons  consciemment  ou  inconsciemment  des  voies  qui  1111- 
raient  du  conduire  a  1 'aeeomplissement  integral  de  notre  destinee, 
cette  intuition  etant  tout  a  la  fois  une  lumiere  et  une  force  des- 
tinees  a  conduire  1'homme  vers  les  buts  pour  lesquels  il  a  regu  La 
vie.  De  nieme  que  sous  Taction  des  rayons  du  soleil  la  terre 
recbauffee  fait  germer  la  semence  d'ou  sortiront  la  plante,  la 
fleur  et  le  fruit  qui  sont  sa  raison  d'etre,  l'ame  humaine,  sous 
1' action  bienfaisante  du  sentiment  religieux  dont  la  source  est  en 
Dieu  sentira  se  former,  grandir  et  se  fortifier  en  elle,  grace  a 
l'exercice  de  toutes  les  facultes  qui  sont  ses  organes,  une  person- 
nalite  capable  de  sentir,  de  connaitre  et  de  creer  ce  que  dans  un 
langage  impuissant  a  les  definir  mieux  nous  designons  par  les 
mots  de  bonte,  de  justice,  et  d 'amour.4 


4  Si  nous  nous  sommes  attarde  a  dire  ee  que  fut,  au  point  de  vue  religieux, 
le  transcendantalisme,  e 'est  avant  tout  parce  que  eelui-ci,  sous  son  aspect 
philosophique  et  dans  son  adaptation  a  la  vie  sociale,  n'est  que  le  pro- 
longement  dans  ces  deux  directions  des  formes  que  nous  l'avons  vu 
prendre  dans  la  premiere.  Cela  est  si  vrai,  que  nous  voyons  les  inspira- 
teurs  et  les  chefs  de  ce  mouvement  passer  sans  transition  de  1  'une  a 
1 'autre  de  ces  formes  chaque  fois  qu'ils  tentent  de  le  definir.  Nous  en 
pouvons  dire  autant  des  historiens  du  transcendantalisme,  qui,  malgre 
leur  tentative  de  mettre  quelque  clarte  dans  1 'exposition  qu'ils  en  out 
faite,  n'ont  reussi  ni  a  eviter,  ni  surtout  a  ecarter,  les  obstacles  que  nous 
sommes  bien  oblige  de  laisser  a  la  place  ou  les  a  mis  la  nature  de  notre 
sujet. 


392  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 


CHAPITRE  III 

DES  ORIGINES  FRANCAISES  DU 

TRANSCENDANTALISME  CONSIDERE 

SOUS  SON  ASPECT  RELIGIEUX 

1.  Remarques  prelimin  aires 

Si  le  transcendantalisme  se  presente  tout  d'abord  comme 
1 'expression,  au  sein  des  eglises  unitaires,  d'un  liberalisme  dont 
les  origines  premieres  vont  rejoindre  au  18me  siecle  l'idealisme 
"berkeleyen"  mis  en  faveur  par  Samuel  Johnson,  le  methodisme, 
tel  que  l'introduisit  en  Amerique  la  predication  de  Whitefield,  et 
l'utilitarisme  de  la  philosophie  ecossaise,  tel  que  l'avait  enseigne 
Witherspoon,1  il  revetit  durant  le  premier  tiers  du  19me  siecle 
mi  caractere  si  distinct  de  celui  qu'il  avait  eu  jusqu 'alors,  qu'on 
est  porte  a  lui  soupconner  d'autres  origines  que  celles  que  nous 
avons  rappelees  et  a  chercher  celles-ci  ailleurs  que  dans  la 
Nouvelle-Angleterre. 

Ce  qui  constitue  l'originalite  de  cette  forme  nouvelle  et 
transitoire  du  liberalisme  que  les  calvinistes  intransigeants  et  les 
unitaires  orthodoxes  qualifierent  du  noiii  de  transcendantalisme, 
c'est  la  preoccupation  incessante  des  representants  de  la  nouvelle 
doctrine  de  faire  de  l'ame  humaine  le  foyer  d'oii  rayonne  cette 
part  de  verite  que  Dieu  revele  a  l'homme,  de  la  conscience  et  du 
coeur,  l'echo  des  seules  voix  par  lesquelles  le  ciel  communique  a 
la  terre  ses  imperieuses  volontes,  et  de  reintegrer  dans  ses  droits 
et  dans  ses  privileges  une  nature  humaine  qu  'au  nom  meme  de  la 
Bible  on  avait  dite  irremediablement  corrompue.  Un  tel  etat 
d'esprit  etait,  certes,  etranger  aux  traditions  de  la  pensee  re- 


1  II  j  aurait  lieu  peut-etre  de  mentionner  aussi  le  quakerisme.  Les 
representants  de  cette  doctrine  s'etant  toujours  tenus  a  l'eeart  de  toutes 
controverses  theologiques,  ayant  toujours  raontre  une  extreme  reserve 
dans  les  relations  qu'ils  entretinrent  avee  d'autres  communautes  re- 
ligieuses,  il  nous  parait  que  leur  influence  sur  la  formation  de  1  'un  ou  de 
1  'autre  des  courants  d  'idees  qui  aboutirent  au  transcendantalisme  n  'a 
pas  ete  assez  considerable  pour  que  nous  ayons  du  en  tenir  compte. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  393 

ligieuse  et  philosophique  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre,  et  trouverail 
difficilement  son  explication,  si  Ton  ne  tenait  compte  des  grands 
courants  d'idees  que  l'idealisme  allemand  et  le  spiritualisme 
franeais  ereerent,  sur  les  deux  continents,  des  les  premieres  an- 
nees  du  19me  siecle. 

Est-ce  a  dire  que  les  transcendantalistes  ne  se  seraient  point 
opposes  a  la  theologie  traditionnelle,  au  sensualisme  de  Locke,  a. 
i'utilitarisme  de  Reid,  s'ils  n'avaient  point  eonnu  les  ecrits  de 
Coleridge  et  de  Carlyle,  ou  ceux  de  Madame  de  Stael,  de  Benja- 
min Constant  et  de  Cousin?  Nous  sommes  loin  de  le  penser. 
S'ils  accueillirent  favorablement,  et  s'approprierent  occasion- 
nellement  une  methode  de  raisonnement  et  une  argumentation 
que  d'autres,  tout  pres  d'eux,  repudierent  ou  simplemenl 
ignorerent,  c'est  qu'elles  conduisaient  a  des  conclusions  qu'ils 
avaient  pour  ainsi  dire  devinees,  sans  trop  savoir  par  quels 
chemins  on  y  pouvait  arriver.  Les  verites  religieuses  et  morales, 
sur  lesquelles  transcendantalistes,  idealistes  et  spiritualistes,  en- 
tendaient  remener  les  esprits,  etant  faits  de  conscience  purement 
intuitifs,  etrangers  a  Thistoire,  parce  que  anterieurs  a  tout 
raisonnement,  ne  serait-ce  pas  commettre  une  erreur  de  jugement 
que  de  vouloir  que  les  uns  n'eussent  pas  ete  capables  de  les 
eprouver  sans  le  secours  des  autres  ? 

Ce  que  les  transcendantalistes  doivent  aux  philosophes  alle- 
mands,  et  beaucoup  plus  encore  aux  eclectiques  franeais,  ce  n'est 
done  pas  la  decouverte  de  ces  verites  fondamentales  que  tous 
firent  reposer  sur  un  fait  de  conscience,  mais  seulement  des  argu- 
ments capables  d'en  justifier  1 'existence  aux  veux  de  la  raison, 
et  de  determiner  rapplication  qu'on  en  doit  faire  a  la  vie  de 
l'individu  ainsi  qua  celle  de  la  societe.  Accuses  comme  ils 
l'etaient  de  trahir  le  christianisme  dont  ils  faisaient  profession, 
ils  entendaient  non  seulement  montrer  qu'en  s'eloignant  des 
chemins  battus  de  la  theologie  traditionnelle  et  du  formalisme 
ecclesiastique,  ils  s'etaient  rapproches  de  l'ideal  evangelique 
formule  par  Jesus  dans  le  Sermon  sur  la  montagne,  mais  montrer 
aussi  que  leur  nouvelle  maniere  de  comprendre  et  de  vivre  la 
religion   et   la   morale   chretiennes   n'etait   en   contradiction,   ni 


394  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

avec  les  postulats  de  la  raison  theorique,  ui  avec  ceux  de  la 
raison  pratique. 

2.  De  quelques  difficultes  qu'il  convient  d'ecarter 

Au  moment  d'aborder  le  probleme  des  origines  du  transcen- 
dantalisme  dans  le  sens  indique  par  le  sujet  de  notre  these,  nous 
nous  trouvons  en  presence  d  'une  grosse  difficulty,  dont  les  termes 
se  presentent  comme  suit:  l'idealisme  allemand  et  reclectisme 
francais  possedant  en  commun  plusieurs  des  caracteres  dont 
herita  largement  le  transeendantalisme,  comment  determiner 
avec  assurance  ce  que  ce  dernier  doit  a  1 'influence  de  l'un  plutot 
qu'a  1'influence  de  l.'autre?  Comment  eviter  le  reproclie  d'at- 
tribuer  a  l'une  ce  que  d'aucuns  pourront  etre  tentes  d'attribuer 
a,  l'autre?  Comment  nous  justifierons-nous  d 'avoir  dit,  au  cours 
de  notre  etude,  que  les  historiens  accredited  de  la  pensee  philoso- 
phique  en  Amerique  n'ont  pas  rendu  justice  suffisamment  a 
1'importance  qu'eut  sur  la  formation  de  la  doctrine  qui  nous 
occupe,  le  spiritualisme  de  Madame  de  Stael  et  de  Benjamin 
Constant,  par  exemple,  celui  d'un  Theodore  Jouffroy  ou  d'un 
Victor  Cousin? 

Quoique  cet  aspect  du  probleme  des  origines  du  transeen- 
dantalisme soit  en  somme  etranger  au  sujet  que  nous  nous  sommes 
choisi,  il  est  indispensable  que  nous  repondions,  ne  fut-ce  que 
brievement,  a  1 'objection  que  nous  avons  signalee,  et  que  nous 
ecartions  d'emblee  des  voies  dans  lesquelles  nous  aura  bientot 
conduit  notre  argumentation  un  certain  nombre  d 'obstacles  qui 
pourraient  sans  cela  l'embarrasser  constamment,  en  diminuer  la 
portee  et  compromettre  ses  conclusions. 

II  importe  tout  d'abord  de  rappeler  ici  que  W.  E.  Channing,2 


2  "Dr.  Channing  exerted  for  a  long  time  a  very  great  influence,  .  .  . 
he  is  answerable  for  no  small  portion  of  the  soul-worship  which  was  for 
a  time  the  fashionable  doctrine  of  the  metropolis"  (Brownson 's  Works, 
V,  p.  585);  "He  was  the  leader  of  this  movement  (called  transcendental- 
ism), as  he  had  been  twenty  years  earlier  of  the  Unitarians."  Voir 
Cooke,  Falpli  Waldo  Emerson,  cite  par  Frothmgham,  p.  Ill;  "Channing 
was  scarcely  Unitarian,  rather  the  first  of  the  transcendentalists. "  God- 
dard,  p.  195. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  395 

et  George  Ripley,3  son  disciple  accompli,  out  ete  beaucoup  plus 
qu 'Emerson4  les  inspirateurs  et  les  chefs  du  mouvement  de 
pensee  liberale  sorti  des  eglises  unitaires,  et  que  leur  influence  a 
ete  infiniment  plus  considerable  que  celle  du  philosophe  de  Con- 
cord. S'il  en  est  ainsi,  si,  comme  l'ecrit  0.  B.  Frothinghain, 
l'historien  le  plus  accredite  de  la  pensee  philosophique  en 
Amerique  au  19me  siecle,  Thistoire  des  ecrits  de  Channing  se 
conf ond  avec  celle  du  transcendantalisme ;  si  George  Ripley  per- 
sonnifie  mieux  qu'aucun  autre  des  membres  du  "Transcen- 
dental Club""'  l'esprit  d'une  doctrine  qu'il  fut  un  des  premiers 

a  "George  Bipley  held  the  foremost  place  as  the  expounder  and  cham- 
pion of  the  new  theology  which  may  be  perhaps  best  characterized  as 
hyper-spiritualism."     (Memorial  History  of  Boston,  III,  p.  486). 

4Ce  n'est  pas  chose  facile  que  d'assigner  a,  Emerson  la  place  qui  lui 
convient  parmi  les  partisans  du  transcendantalisme.  Place  aux  anti- 
podes du  calvinisme  traditionnel,  voire  de  Porthodoxie  des  Chretiens 
unitaires;  et,  de  plus,  oseillant  constamment  entre  les  systemes  philoso- 
phiques  les  plus  divers,  passant  d'un  scepticisme  aimable  dont  une  lec- 
ture assidue  des  Essais  de  Montaigne  lui  avait  revele  le  charme,  tantot 
au  rationalisme  utilitaire  de  l'auteur  de  Heroes  and  Hero-Worship,  tantot 
au  pantheisme  idealiste  de  Coleridge  et  de  Swedenborg,  Emerson  ne 
pouvait  manquer  de  rencontrer  au  cours  de  ses  tergiversations  meta- 
physiques  quelques-uns  des  representants  de  la  nouvelle  doctrine.  Trans- 
cendantaliste,  il  le  fut  certainement,  puisqu  'il  fait  de  1 'intuition  une 
source  de  connaissance,  de  l'ame  humaine  un  reflet  de  Fame  universelle 
(over-soul )  ;  mais  ce  qui  le  distingue  nettement  des  autres  representants 
de  l'idealisme  americain,  c 'est  son  individualisme  intransigeant,  son 
ferme  attachement  aux  postulats  de  la  philosophic  platonicienne,  son 
refus,  si  nous  pouvons  dire  ainsi,  de  laisser  la  raison  s'interesser  aux 
choses  du  copur,  de  laisser  la  conscience  s'interesser  a  celles  de  la  societe. 

Cette  difference  considerable  explique,  d'une  part,  le  peu  d 'influence 
qu 'Emerson  exerc,a  sur  les  hommes  de  son  temps — n 'oublions  pas  que  la 
vente  de  la  premiere  edition  du  livre  de  ' '  Nature, ' '  publie  a  500  exem- 
plaires,  ne  prit  rien  moins  que  douze  annees — et  ce  fait  non  moins  signi- 
ficant', que  le  philosophe  de  Concord  parle  a  maintes  reprises  des  trans- 
cendantalistes  comme  de  gens  avec  lesquels  il  n'a  rien  en  commun.  "They 
are  not  good  citizens,"  ecrit-il  dans  un  article  qu'il  confia  au  Dial,  "not 
good  members  of  society,  .  .  .  There  is  no  doubt  a  great  deal  of  well- 
founded  objections  to  be  spoken  or  felt  against  the  sayings  and  doings 
of  their  class"  (Dial,  III,  pp.  307,  311). 

Si  Emerson  fut  un  idealiste  a,  ses  heures,  il  ne  fut  pas  un  philosophe 
dans  le  sens  qu'on  est  convenu  d'attacher  a  ce  mot.  II  a  des  idees  qu'il 
exprime  avec  une  forte  originalite,  mais  il  n'a  pas  de  systeme.  II  ne  se 
fit  jamais  faute  de  l'avouer  lui-meme.  "I  do  not  know  what  arguments 
mean  in  reference  to  any  expression  of  thought,"  ecrivait-il  un  jour  au 
Dr.  Henry  Ware,  professeur  au  college  de  Harvard,  "I  delight  in  telling 
what  I  think,  but  if  you  ask  me  how  I  dare  to  say  so,  or  why  it  is  so,  I 
am  the  most  helpless  of  mortal  men."  (New  England  Magazine,  XXVIII, 
p.  260.    Voir  aussi  Christian  Examiner,  XXIX,  p.  83.) 

s  La  premiere  reunion  de  ces  Chretiens  unitaires  liberaux  que  leura 
adversaires    qualifierent    de    "transcendantalistes"    eut    lieu    a    Boston, 


396  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol. -4 

non  seulement  a  definir,  mais  aussi  a  accepter  dans  toutes  les 
conclusions  d'ordre  pratique  qu'on  en  pouvait  tirer,  il  s'ensuit 
logiquement  que  bien  avant  1840  le  transcendantalisme  avait 
acquis,  sous  son  aspect  religieux  du  moins,  sa  forme  definitive. 

A  cette  date,  en  effet,  avaient  deja  paru  les  ouvrages  de 
Channing,  le  livre  d 'Emerson  intitule  Nature,  les  deux  premiers 
volumes  de  la  collection  des  Specimens  of  Foreign  Standard 
Literature,  editee  par  Ripley;  en  1838  le  manuel  de  philosophic 
que  C.  S.  Henry  avait  tire  de  l'eclectisme  de  Victor  Cousin  avait 
deja  atteint  sa  deuxieme  edition ;  en  1839  avait  deja  paru  le 
premier  volume  de  la  revue  philosophique  fondee  par  0.  A. 
Brownson.  Des  lors,  et  e'est  la  le  point  auquel  nous  voulions  en 
venir,  ce  qu'il  nous  importera  le  plus  de  savoir,  e'est  la  nature 
de  rinfluence  qu'a  bien  pu  exercer  la  philosophic  allemande, 
avaut  1840,  sur  la  pensee  religieuse  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre, 
tenant  compte  avant  tout  pour  ce  faire  de  ce  qu'ont  dit  de  cette 
philosophic  les  chefs  accredited  de  la  doctrine  qui  nous  occupe. 
Ce  travail  preliminaire  acheve,  et  nous  verrons  que  les  conclusions 
auxquelles  il  conduit  ne  sont  pas  sans  avoir  un  poids  considerable 
sur  le  point  en  litige,  il  nous  sera  possible  de  determiner  avec 
quelque  assurance  le  caractere  et  1 'importance  de  1 'influence 
exercee  par  le  spiritualisme  francais  sur  la  formation  du  trans- 
cendantalisme. 

3.  Que  pexser  des  origixes  allemaxdes  du 
traxscexdaxtalisme  '? 

II  est,  certes,  hors  de  doute  que  la  philosophie  idealiste  de 
l'Allemagne  a  exerce  sur  la  pensee  religieuse  de  la  Xouvelle- 


le  19  Septembre,  1836,  ehez  George  Ripley,  ou  se  rencontrerent  E.  W. 
Emerson,  H.  F.  Hedge,  A.  B.  Alcott,  W.  E.  Charming,  C.  Francis,  ainsi 
qu'un  ou  deux  etudiants  en  theologie.  Une  reunion  plus  nombreuse 
groupa  un  peu  plus  tard  ehez  E.  W.  Emerson  outre  les  quelques  personnes 
que  nous  venons  de  mentionner,  Orestes  A.  Brownson,  Theodore  Parker, 
C.  A.  Bartol,  C.  Stetson,  Margaret  Fuller  et  Elizabeth  P.  Peabodv.  ' '  This 
was  the  inauguration  of  a  club  called  '  Transcendental  Club. '  by  the 
world;  occasionally  by  its  members  the  'Hedge  Club,'  its  meetings  been 
adapted  to  suit  Eev.  F.  H.  Hedge's  occasional  visits  to  Boston,  .  .  .  and 
called  sometimes  by  Alcott  'The  Symposium'  "  (Higginson,  T.  W.,  Margaret 
Fulhr  Ossoli,  p.  143). 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  397 

Angleterre,  durant  le  premier  tiers  du  19me  sieele,  line  influence 
marquee.  Cette  influence,  toutefois,  n'eut  que  tres  peu  ie  carac- 
tere  que  d'aucuns  lui  supposent,  puisqu'elle  tient  beaucoup  plus 
de  la  theologie,  voire  de  la  litterature,  que  de  la  philosophie. 

Les  historiens  du  transcendantalisme  s'entendent  tons  a  dire, 
et  sur  ce  point  nous  sommes  bien  d 'accord  avec  aux,  que  le  retour 
de  George  Ticknor,  de  G.  Bancroft  et  de  F.  H.  Hedge  des  uni- 
versites  d'Allemagne,  entre  1817  et  1824,7  marque  le  commence- 
ment de  l'interet  qu'on  porta  en  Amerique  aux  choses  de  ce 
pays.  Faisons  remarquer  ici  que  ce  dont  s'occupe  a  Gottingue  le 
future  historien  de  la  litterature  espagnole,  c'est  de  belles-lettres 
et  de  philologie;  que  le  futur  auteur  de  l'histoire  des  Etats-Unis, 
joint  a  ces  memes  etudes,  celle  des  anciennes  constitutions  de  la 
Grece.  De  retour  en  Amerique,  George  Ticknor  instruit  ses 
auditeurs  de  la  theorie  de  Wolf  sur  la  composition  des  ecrits 
homeriques,  tandis  que  G.  Bancroft  consacre  ses  loisirs  a  la  tra- 
duction de  poesies  allemandes  de  second  ordre.  Quant  a  Frederic 
Henri  Hedge,  qui  s'etait  eloigne  de  Boston  a  l'age  de  treize  ans, 
avait  fait  en  Allemagne  toutes  ses  humanites,  ce  ne  fut  que  25 
ans  apres  son  retour  en  Amerique  qu'il  fit  paraitre  son  ouvrage 
sur  les  ecrivians  en  prose  de  l'Allemagne. 

S'il  est  done  permis  de  specifier  que  l'interet  porte  aux  choses 
de  l'Allemagne  par  les  savants  distingues  dont  nous  avons  rap- 
pele  les  noms  n'a  pas  ete  sans  encourager  l'etude  d'une  langue  et 
d'une  litterature  dont  on  avait  ete  jusque  la  passablement 
ignorant,8  il  ne  Test  pas  moins  de  supposer  que  rinfluence 
exercee  par  ceux  qui,  avant  1830,  se  livrerent  a  cette  etude  est 


6  N  'eussions-nous  pas  craint  de  nous  eloigner  trop  et  trop  longtemps 
du  sujet  particulier  que  nous  nous  sommes  choisi — ce  qui  n  'aurait  pas  ete  sans 
le  compliquer  singulierement — que  nous  aurions  consacre  un  autre  para- 
graphe  a  cette  part  d 'influence  qu'a  eue  sur  la  formation  de  ridealisme 
americain  la  lecture  des  ecrits  de  Swedenborg,  et  celle  aussi  des  philo- 
sophies orientaux.  Cette  influence  ayant  ete,  generalement  parlant,  pos- 
terieure  a  celle  qu'on  peut  attribuer  au  spiritualisme  frangais,  on  ne  sera 
guere  fonde  a  nous  faire  un  reproche  de  ne  1 'avoir  signalee  qu 'en  passant. 

7  "German  books  were  exceedingly  scarce  in  New  England  about 
1815."     (Life  and  Letters  and  Journal  of  George  Ticknor,  I,  p.  11  ). 

s  "We  are  glad  to  see  the  study  of  the  German  language  becoming 
more  and  more  common  among  us"  (U.  S.  Literary  Gazette,  I  (1827), 
Introd.). 


398  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

completement  etrangere  a  la  formation  du  transcendantalisme.9 
Si  le  retour  de  quelques  etudiants  americains,  entre  1817  et 
1825,  de  l'universite  de  Gottingue,  marque  assez  bien  le  moment 
oil  commenca  a  se  generalise^  en  Amerique,  l'etude  de  la  langne 
de  Kant,  de  Schleiermacher  et  de  Goethe  ;10  si  la  creation,  au 
college  de  Harvard,  en  1830,  d'une  chaire  de  litterature  alle- 
mande  que  Charles  T.  C.  Follen  fut  le  premier  a  occuper  marque 
celui  ou  Ton  commenca  a  s'y  interesser  serieusement  aux  choses 
de  la  philosophie,  de  la  theologie  et  de  la  litterature  allemandes,11 
la  publication  dans  Blackwood's  Magazine  et  dans  VEdinburgh 
Review,  dans  la  North  American  Review,  et  dans  le  Christian 
Examiner,  en  particulier,  de  comptes  rendus  et  d'extraits  des 
principaux  ouvrages  parus  en  France  et  en  Allemagne  fit  con- 
naitre  pen  a  peu  de  ce  cote  de  l'Atlantique  le  nouveau  monde 
d'idees  et  de  preoccupations  dans  lequel,  en  Europe,  se  mou- 
vaient  les  esprits.  Les  grands  courants  de  pensee  liberale  et 
revolutionnaire  auxquels  l'idealisme  et  le  spiritualisme  don- 
nerent  les  formes  vagues  que  nous  les  voyons  prendre  dans  les 
domaines  les  plus  varies  de  la  philosophie,  de  la  religion  et  de  la 
litterature,  ne  pouvaient  manquer  de  se  frayer  une  voie  dans  un 
pays  ou  s'etaient  affermies  des  institutions  republicaines,  dans  un 
pays,  surtout,  ou  les  traditions  ecclesiastiques  du  puritanisme 
avaient  deja  perdu  beaucoup  de  leur  prestige. 


a  "Long  after  French  became  a  matter  of  course,  the  great  German 
writers  remained  practically  unknown  on  these  shores"  (Memorial  History 
of  Boston,  III,  p.  653). 

10 II  importe  de  ne  pas  exagerer,  comme  on  l'a  fait  souvent,  1 'im- 
portance qu'a  pu  avoir  pour  le  transcendantalisme  l'etude  de  la  langue 
allemande  a  l'epoque  qui  nous  occupe.  "In  1833,"  ainsi  ecrivait  J.  F. 
Clarke,  "it  would  have  been  difficult  to  buy  any  German  book  in  Boston 
excepting  Goethe  and  Schiller;  as  late  as  1843  I  rummaged  the  Phila- 
delphia book  stores  for  German  books,  ...  I  could  hardly  buy  any  German 
book  in  Boston,  and  all  the  Philadelphia  shops  offered  were  Goethe,  Schiller, 
the  Bible  and  the  Psalm  book. ' '  (Emerson 's  Works,  X,  p.  331.  Voir  aussi 
Marg.  Fuller's  Memoirs,  p.  114.) 

11  Nous  avons  une  confirmation  interessante  de  1 'assertion  que  nous 
venons  de  faire,  dans  le  passage  suivant  du  Christian  Examiner  (VIII, 
p.  75):  "The  literature  of  Germany  has  hitherto  (1831)  received  com- 
paratively little  attention  from  the  best  educated  scholars  in  this  coun- 
try. In  this  they  have  followed  too  closely  the  bad  example  of  our  Eng- 
lish brethren.  Until  within  a  recent  period,  the  treasures  of  philosophy, 
history,  poetry,  and  critic,  speculative  for  the  most  part,  have  been  sealed 
up  from  foreign  eyes. ' ' 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  399 

II  est  indeniable  que  ce  qu'ont  pu  connaitre  de  l'idSalisme 
allemand  ceux  des  Chretiens  unitaires  liberaux  qu'on  designa 
plus  tard  sous  le  nom  transcendantalistes  et  qui,  certes,  ne  furent 
pas  sans  lire  tout  ou  partie  de  ce  qui,  dans  les  principales  revues 
anglaises  et  americaines,  servait  occasionnellement  la  cause  du 
liberalisnie,  a  du  exercer  sur  leur  esprit  une  reelle  influence.  II 
importe,  cependant,  de  ne  pas  exagerer  rimportance  de  cette 
derniere  et  de  lui  restituer  le  caractere  qui  lui  convient. 

Si,  comme  nous  avons  cherche  a  l'etablir  ailleurs,  Channing 
et  Ripley,  beaucoup  plus  qu 'Emerson,  furent  l'ame  meme  du 
transcendantalisme,  c'est  avant  tout  chez  les  theologiens  de  l'Al- 
lemagne,  non  chez  ses  philosophes,  qu  'il  f aut  chercher  la  premiere 
source  de  1 'influence  qu'a  exercee,  directement,  sur  run  et 
l'autre,  l'idealisme  allemand.  II  y  a  une  telle  analogie  entre  la 
conception  qu'avaient  de  la  religion  et  du  christianisme  des  the- 
ologiens tels  que  Herder  et  Schleiermacher,12  et  celle  que,  pen  a 
peu,  adopterent  Channing  et  Ripley,  au  fur  et  a  mesure  qu'ils  se 
detacherent  davantage  de  l'orthodoxie  traditionnelle,  que, 
sachant  tout  l'interet  qu'on  portait  dans  le  camp  unitaire  aux 
travaux  importants  de  critique  biblique  liberale  publies  en  Alle- 
magne,  et  que  reproduisait  en  particulier  le  Christian  Register,13 
qu'on  ne  peut  s'empecher  d'admettre  que  les  premiers  ont  du 
fournir  aux  seconds  les  armes  dont  ils  se  servirent  pour  com- 
battre  leurs  adversaires.  II  ne  faut  pas  l'oublier:  la  Nouvelle- 
Angleterre  etait  remarquablement  bien  informee  des  contro- 
verses  theologiques  dont  Berlin  et  Iena,  Gottingue  et  Tubingue, 
etaient,  en  Europe,  les  principaux  foyers.  En  1819,  on  se 
plaignait   deja,  dans  le  camp   orthodoxe  de  1 'influence   nefaste 


12  "  Religion, "  according  to  Herder,  "is  a  matter  of  inward  nature; 
its  essence  is  truth  and  fidelity,  ...  a  constant  and  intimate  connection 
between  the  human  soul  and  the  spirit  of  God"  (Christian  Examiner, 
XIX,  p.  181). 

"Eeligion,"  says  Schleiermacher,  "is  a  sense  of  divine  things  within 
the  soul,  not  upon  knowledge  and  action.  .  .  .  The  soul  must  rest  satis- 
fied with  its  own  realm,  the  world  of  thoughts  and  ideas:  and  of  these 
ideas,  the  chief  are  God  and  Immortal  Life,  .  .  .  man  feels  within  his 
breast  the  workings  of  the  Divine  will."  (New  England  Magazine,  V, 
p.  164). 

is  Revue  de  theologie  editee  par  Georges  Ripley,  de  1S.30  a  1837,  dans 
laquelle  parurent  des  traductions  fragmentaires  de  Herder,  de  Schleier 
macher  et  d'autres  theologiens  allemands. 


400  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

exercee  par  un  systeme  qui  detruisait,  dit-on,  la  doctrine  de  l'ins- 
piration.14  En  1820,  tandis  qu'on  se  plaignait  encore  du  peu 
d'interet  qu'on  portait,  en  Amerique,  a  l'etude  de  la  langue  alle- 
mande ;  tandis  qu'on  avouait  ne  connaitre  de  l'Allemagne  que 
quelques  productions  litteraires  de  second  ordre  et  de  caractere 
fantastique,15  on  lisait  avec  avidite  les  Lettres  de  Herder  a  un 
Etudiant  en  Theologie,16  lettres  que  James  Marsh,  un  peu  plus 
tard,  traduira  a  son  tour  et  fera  inserer  dans  la  revue  de  the- 
ologie publiee  par  Ripley.  Durant  les  annees  qui  suivirent  le 
retour  a  Cambridge  de  George  Ticknor,  la  bibliotheque  du  col- 
lege de  Harvard  s'enrichissait  d'un  certain  nombre  de  livres 
qu'on  avait  fait  venir  de  rAllemagne,  et  ces  livres  interessaient 
non  point  la  philosophie,  comme  on  pourrait  etre  tente  de  le  sup- 
poser,  mais  la  theologie,  l'histoire  naturelle  et  la  philologie.17 

Si  on  veut  done  donner  aux  considerations  que  nous  venons 
d'exposer  1 'importance  qu'elles  ont  pour  notre  sujet ;  si  on  veut 
bien  se  souvenir  que  l'idealisme  allemand,  sous  son  aspect  re- 
ligieux,  trouva  son  expression  dans  les  ecrits  de  Herder  et  de 
Schleiermacher,  avant  d'aboutir  a  la  philosophie  pantheistique 
de  Schelling,  et  que  le  transcendantalisme  fut  rexpression  du 
liberalisme  des  eglises  unitaires,  avant  de  devenir  celle  de  l'in- 
dividualisme  intransigeant  d'un  R.  W.  Emerson  ou  d'un  H.  D. 
Thoreau,  on  nous  autorisera  a  conclure  en  disant  que  l'innuence 
directe  qu'a  pu  exercer  l'idealisme  allemand,  entre  1820  et  1810, 
sur  la  pensee  religieuse  liberale  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre,  et  par 
consequent  sur  la  formation  du  transcendantalisme,  doit  etre 
attribute,  principalement,  a  la  diffusion  dans  ce  pays  des  ecrits 
de  Herder,  de  Schleiermacher,  et  de  quelques  autres  theologiens 
allemands.18 


14  "Of  late  the  German  system  has  prevailed,"  .  .  .  and  "the  doc- 
trine of  inspiration  is  renounced  by  many"  (North  American  Review,  IX 
(1819),  p.  255). 

is  Cf.  Christian  Disciple,  II,  p.  233;  Christian  Examiner,  XIX,  pp.  181- 
182;  Dial,  I,  p.  46. 

16  Les  lettres  de  Herder  a  un  etudiant  en  theologie  avaient  ete  publiees 
pour  la  premiere  fois  en  1780. 

17  Les  ouvrages  auxquels  nous  faisons  allusion  sont  ceux  de  Eichhorn, 
Blumenbach,  Schaeffer,  Wolf,  Hermann,  Jacobs  et  Kastner. 

is  Baumgartner,  Ernesti,  Michaelis,  De  Wette,  en  particulier. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  \n\ 

Maintenant,  quelle  importance  faut-il  donner  a  I 'influence 
que  nous  venous  de  signaler?  C'est  la  ce  qu'il  est  extrememenl 
difficile  d'etablir.  Nous  avons  toutefois  d 'excellentes  raisons  de 
penser  que  celle-ci  n'a  pas  ete  tres  considerable.  Admettant 
meme  qu'elle  ait  pu  l'etre  jusque  vers  1835,  il  est  hors  de  doute 
qu'elle  alia  s 'aff  aiblissant  de  plus  en  plus,  a  partir  de  eette  date, 
pour  la  raison  que  voici:  ceux  des  Chretiens  unitaires  qui  s'etaienl 
eloignes  de  leurs  freres  orthodoxes  s'interessant  chaque  jour 
davantage  au  mouvement  de  reforme  sociale  qui  devait  aboutir 
quelques  annees  plus  tard  a  1 'organisation  de  "Brook  Farm," 
se  tinrent  ton  jours  plus  completement  a  l'ecart  des  controv.  rsrs 
theologiques,  et  se  contenterent  de  precher — ceux  d'entre  eux 
qui  prechaient  encore — les  verites  fondamentales  du  chris- 
tianisme,  telles  qu'ils  les  trouvaient  exprimees  dans  le  Sermon 
sur  la  montagne,  s'appliquant  a  en  faire  1 'application  integrale 
a  la  vie  de  l'individu  ainsi  qu'a  celle  de  la  societe. 

Orestes  A.  Brownson,  que  son  ame  inquiete  et  son  esprit  versa- 
tile portaient  a  suivre  les  fluctuations  d'un  mouvement  de  pensee 
religieuse  liberale  dans  lequel  il  cherchait  lui-meme  sa  voie  avant 
d 'avoir  trouve  dans  le  catholicisme  le  repos  qu'il  cherchait, 
n'etait  probablement  pas  loin  d'exprimer  ce  que  pensaient,  A  la 
meme  epoque,  tons  les  transcendantalistes,  lorsqu'en  1837  il 
ecrivait,  faisant  allusion  aux  theologiens  non  moins  qu'aux  phi- 
losophes  allemands :  ' '  we  are  not  aware  that  any  of  them,  nor 
that  all  of  them  have  as  yet  given  us  a  philosophy  of  man."19  Et 
ce  qu'il  faut  entendre  par  ce  terme  un  peu  vague,  c'est  une  phi- 
losophic capable,  non  pas  de  resoudre  le  probleme  de  la  con- 
naissance  par  voie  de  raisonnement,  ou  celui  de  la  religion  par 
1 'application  de  la  methode  historique  a  1 'etude  des  livres  de 
l'Ancien  et  du  Nouveau  Testament,  mais  de  determiner  le  sens 
et  le  but  de  la  vie  humaine  et  d'en  marquer  les  devoirs  les  plus 
imperatifs.  II  s'agissait  de  creer  une  ethique  nouvelle,  et  non 
plus  seulement  de  justifier  1 'existence  de  la  religion,  et  si  des 
ecrits  tels  que  VEsquisse  d'une  critique  des  anciens  systemes  d( 
morale20  de   Schleiermacher,   Philosophic  de  I'histoire  dt    I'hu- 


19  Christian  Examiner,  XXII,  p.  186. 

20  Outlines  of  a  Critique  of  Previous  Systems  of  Ethics,  1803. 


402  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

manite21  de  Herder,  et  De  la  vie  humaine  de  De  Wette,22  peuvent 
bien  avoir  fourni  quelques-uns  des  materiaux  necessaires  a 
1  'etablissement  de  eette  nouvelle  philosophic,  ils  n'ont  pu  exercer 
qu'une  influence  ou  secondaire,  ou  tardive,  sur  la  pensee  re- 
ligieuse  des  transcendantalistes.  Channing  et  Ripley,  car  enfin 
c'est  a  eux  qu'il  faut  toiijours  en  venir,  ne  furent  guere  instruits 
des  travaux  que  nous  avons  rappeles  que  par  les  traductions 
fragmentaires  qu'en  donnerent  J.  F.  Clarke,  F.  H.  Hedge,  S. 
Osgood  et  T.  Parker,  traductions  que  nous  ne  voyons  apparaitre 
qu'en  1840,  c'est-a-dire  a  une  date  ou  le  transcendantalisme,  dans 
celle  de  ses  formes  que  nous  etudions  ici,  avait  acquis  deja  tous 
ses  traits  essentiels. 

Si  rinfluence  qu'ont  eue  les  theologiens  allemands  de  l'ecole 
liberale  sur  la  formation  du  transcendantalisme  n'a  pas  ete  con- 


21  Sous  le  titre  de  "Progress  of  Society,"  la  North  American  Review 
fit  paraitre,  en  1833,  un  compte  rendu  de  la  traduction  qu 'avait  faite 
Edgar  Quiiiet,  en  1827,  de  l'ouvrage  de  Herder,  Ideen  sur  Philosophie  der 
Menschheit,  ouvrage  que  traduisit,  en  1842,  Samuel  Osgood. 

11  ne  serait  pas  difficile  de  montrer  1 'importance  qu'eut  pour  la  com- 
position de  cet  ecrit  1 'influence  exercee  par  Eousseau  sur  Herder.  Celui-ci 
nous  raconte  que,  tandis  qu'il  etudiait  a  Konigsberg,  il  commencait  et 
finissait  la  journee  par  une  lecture  de  Eousseau.  "C'est  moi-meme  que 
je  veux  chercher  pour  ne  plus  me  perdre, "  s 'eerie  le  jeune  Herder; 
"viens,  Eousseau,  et  sois  mon  guide.  Eousseau  est  un  saint,  un  prophete; 
peu  s'en  faut  que  je  ne  lui  adresse  des  prieres"  (  Annales  de  la  Societe 
J.  J.  Eousseau,  VIII,  p.  110). 

Comme  nous  savons  que  W.  E.  Channing  et  Margaret  Fuller,  en  par- 
ticulier,  eurent  pour  J.  J.  Eousseau  une  grande  admiration,  comme  nous 
sommes  certain  qu'ils  lurent  ses  ecrits,  nous  sommes  porte  a  croire  que 
plus  d'une  fois  on  a  attribue  a  1 'influence  du  theologien  allemand  ce  qui 
etait  du  a  celle  des  ecrits  du  philosophe  de  Geneve. 

22  Ce  n'est  qu'entre  1840  et  1858  que  T.  Parker  et  Frederic  Frothing- 
hani  traduisirent  quelques  fragments  des  ecrits  de  Schleiermacher. 

11  ne  faut  pas  l'oublier:  ce  n'est  qu'apres  avoir  fait  paraitre  dans 
les  deux  premiers  volumes  de  ses  Specimens  of  Foreign  Standard  Literature, 
edites  a  Boston  de  1838  a  1842,  de  copieux  extraits  des  ouvrages  de  V. 
Cousin,  de  Benjamin  Constant,  et  de  Th.  Jouffroy,  que  George  Eipley  ac- 
cueillit  dans  le  troisieme  volume  les  traductions  fragmentaires  que  fit 
J.  S.  Dwight,  de  Goethe,  de  Schiller  et  d'autres  poetes,  dans  le  quatrieme 
volume  la  traduction  que  fit  Margaret  Fuller  des  Conversations  d'Eclcer- 
mann  avec  Goethe.  Comme  on  peut  s'en  rendre  compte,  ni  la  theologie, 
ni  la  philosophie  des  idealistes  allemands,  n  'occupent  dans  la  pensee  des 
transcendantalistes  une  place  preponderante.  En  eut-il  ete  autrement, 
que  tres  probablement  la  publication  editee  par  Eipley,  publication  qui 
eut  le  plus  grand  succes,  aurait  fait  plus  d'honneur  aux  grands  travaux 
de  theologie  et  de  philosophie  transcendantales  qui  immortaliserent  les 
noms  de  Schleiermacher  et  de  Herder,  de  Kant,  de  Fichte,  de  Schelling, 
et  de  Hegel. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendaritalisme  403 

siderable,  que  devons-nous  penser  de  celle  qu'ont  exercee  Kant  el 
ses  suceesseurs  sur  ce  meme  mouvement?  Directement,  cette  in- 
fluence a  ete  nulle;  indirectement,  elle  s'est  produite,  grace  a, 
la  diffusion,  en  Amerique,  entre  1820  et  1840,  des  ecrits  de  Rime, 
de  Stael  et  de  Benjamin  Constant,  d'une  part,  grace  a  celle  des 
ecrits  de  Coleridge  et  de  Carlyle,  d 'autre  part.  Ces  derniers 
seuls  nous  interessent  maintenant ;  ce  que  nous  avons  a,  dire  des 
premiers  trouvera  place  naturellement  dans  le  chapitre  qui  suivra 
celui  qui  nous  retient  encore. 

Que  la  philosophic  des  idealistes  allemands  n'ait  exerce, 
directement,  aucune  influence  notable  sur  la  pensee  religieuse 
liberale  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre,  il  est  a  peine  besoin  de  le 
dire.  W.  E.  Channing  nous  informe  qu'il  ne  connait  de  Kant  et 
de  ses  suceesseurs,  que  ce  que  lui  en  ont  appris  Mine,  de  Stael  et 
Coleridge,  et  ajoute  que  celles  de  leurs  idees  qui  retinrent  son 
attention  correspond aient  a  celles  qu'il  s'etait  faites  lui-meme. 
G.  Ripley  nous  declare  a  son  tour  qu'il  n'a  rien  lu  de  Kant  et 
qu'il  doit  ce  qu'il  sait  des  doctrines  de  ce  philosophe  a  l'un  de 
ses  interpretes  anglais.23  Margaret  Fuller  avoue  ne  rien  com- 
prendre  a  ce  qu'elle  lit  de  Fichte,  quoiqu'elle  etudie  ce  dernier 
d'apres  un  trait  e  destine  a  en  simplifier  la  doctrine,  et  se  declare, 
en  outre,  incapable  de  comprendre,  dans  son  ensemble,  le  systeme 
de  Jacobi.24  Quant  a  Orestes  A.  Brownson,  chez  qui  meme  un 
Victor  Cousin  reconnait  un  habile  logicien,  il  ne  manque  pas  de 
nous  surprendre  etrangement  lorsque,  a  1 'occasion  d'un  rap- 
prochement qu  'il  vient  de  tenter  entre  Pierre  Leroux  et  les  meta- 
physiciens  allemands,  il  conclut  en  disant :  "on  ne  saurait  placer 
bien  haut  des  homines  tels  que  Fichte,  Schelling  et  Hegel."25 

Ces  quelques  temoignages— il  serait  tres  facile  d'y  en  ajouter 
d'autres20 — suiflsent  a  eux  seuls  a  prouver  que  si  les  transcen- 


23  Dial,  II,  p.  91. 

24  Memoirs  of  Marg.  Fuller,  p.  175. 

25  Brownson,  Works,  X,  p.  526. 

26  "Kant,  Sc-helling,  Boehme,  were  unknown  till  Coleridge  introduced 
their  ideas  to  the  notice  of  his  contemporaries"  (Alcott,  Concord  Days, 
p.  152). 

S'il  est  vrai  que  diverses  revues  font  paraitre  occasionnellenuMit,  avant 
1830,   quelques   extraits   et    comptes   rendus   des   oeuvres    de   Leasing,    de 


404 


University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 


dantalistes  doivent  aux  idealistes  allemands  quelque  chose  de  leur 
conception  de  la  religion  et  de  la  morale,  c'est  non  point  pour 
avoir  hi  tels  on  tels  de  leurs  ecrits,  mais  pour  avoir  connu  1 'in- 
terpretation qu'en  donnerent  presque  a  la  meme  epoque  les 
auteurs  que  nous  citions  tout  a  l'heure. 


4.  De  l 'influence  exercee  par  Coleridge  et  Carlyle  sur  la 
formation  du  transcendantalisme 

Que  dirons-nous  maintenant  de  1 'influence  indirecte  que  les 
philosophes  allemands  ont  exercee  sur  le  transcendantalisme, 
grace  a  la  diffusion  des  ecrits  de  Coleridge  et  de  Carlyle  dans  la 
Nouvelle-Angleterre,  apres  1830?  Cet  aspect  du  probleme  des 
origines  du  mouvement  de  pensee  religieuse  que  nous  etudions 
n'est  pas  sans  presenter  de  grosses  difficult  es,  car,  enfin,  Cole- 
ridge a-t-il  ete  l'interprete  fidele  de  la  pensee  de  Kant,  de  Fichte 
et  de  Schelling  ?  Y  a-t-il  dans  les  ecrits  de  Carlyle  rien  qui  nous 
autorise  a  faire  de  ce  dernier  le  disciple  de  Tun  on  de  l'autre  de 
ces  philosophes?  Kepondre  a  ces  questions  de  facon  definitive 
supposerait  le  rapprochement,  la  comparaison  et  la  discussion  de 
textes  de  ces  divers  auteurs,  ce  a  quoi  nous  ne  pourrions  nous 


Goethe  et  <le  Wieland,  <le  Herder,  de  Schleiermacher,  de  Richter  et  de 
Tieck,  il  ne  l'est  pas  moins  que  les  commentaires  dont  on  les  accompagne 
sont  peu  faits,  tres  generalement  parlant,  pour  en  recommander  la  lecture. 

Jusque  vers  1840,  on  n'accueillit  qu'avec  beaueoup  de  precautions, 
meme  parmi  les  unitaires  liberaux,  beaueoup  des  idees  theologiques, 
philosophiques  ou  autres,  qu  'on  savait  venir  de  1  'Allemagne.  "Vers 
1833,"  lisons-nous  dans  les  memoires  de  Marg.  Fuller,  "Kant  was  thought 
by  evangelical  divines  to  be  more  dangerous  than  any  French  novelist." 

Brownson,  que  nous  avons  vu  faire  si  peu  de  cas  des  philosophes  de 
1 'Allemagne,  ne  faisait  pas  meme  grace  au  plus  grand  de  ses  poetes,  des 
formes  esthetiques  nouvelles  de  son  idealisme,  disant  en  parlant  des 
oeuvres  de  Goethe:  "none  of  them  are  exempt  from  the  charge  of  im- 
moral tendency,  ami  some  of  them  are  abominable"  (Brownson,  Works, 
XIX,  p.  105).  A  cette  meme  epoque  Longfellow  parlait  encore  des 
Elective  Affinities,  comme  d 'un  livre  "monstrueux"  (Higginson.  Marg. 
Fuller,  p.  2S3). 

Si  nous  nous  sommes  complu  a  faire  intervenir  dans  un  chapitre  de 
notre  travail  auquel  elles  sont,  en  somme,  etrangeres  quelques  citations, 
c  'est  dans  le  but  de  montrer  que  durant  la  periode  de  formation  du  trans- 
cendantalisme, ni  la  philosophic,  ni  la  litterature  de  1 'Allemagne, 
n'avaient  rencontre  en  Amerique,  meme  parmi  les  partisans  d 'un  chris- 
tianisme  ties  liberal,  l'accueil  facile  et  bienveillant  que  d'aucuns  sup- 
posent. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  trcmscendantalisme  405 

livrer  sans  perdre  de  vue  pour  mi  long  temps  le  sujet  meme  de 
notre  these.  Que  nous  sachions  ce  qui  assura  Le  succes  en 
Amerique  des  ecrits  du  poete  et  de  l'historien  anglais  dont  nous 
venons  de  dire  les  noms,  et  nous  serons  capable  de  nous  faire  une 
idee  de  la  part  d 'influence  qu'il  faut  attribuer  a  leur  interpre- 
tation de  la  philosophie  allemande. 

Nous  disions  tout  a  l'heure  que  ce  qui  avait  empeche  un 
Orestes  A.  Brownson  de  voir  dans  les  disciples  d 'Emmanuel 
Kant  des  philosophes  dignes  d'etre  compares  a  Pierre  Leroux — 
nous  laissons  a  l'auteur  de  cette  remarque  saugrenue  les  res- 
ponsabilites  qu'elle  implique — c'est  qu'il  n 'avait  point  trouve 
dans  les  divers  systemes  elabores  par  eux  les  elements  indispensa- 
bles  a  la  constitution  de  ce  qu'il  appelait  "a  philosophy  of  man." 
Or,  c'est  pour  avoir  decouvert  ces  meme  elements  dans  les  ecrits 
de  Coleridge  que  les  transcendantalistes  firent  a  ces  derniers  un 
accueil  empresse.  II  y  a  dans  cette  simple  constatation  une  indi- 
cation. Car,  ou  bien  le  poete  anglais  avait  de  la  philosophie  alle- 
mande une  comprehension  differente  de  celle  qu'en  avait  cue 
Orestes  A.  Brownson,  ou  bien  il  avait  trouve  a  des  sources  autres 
que  celles  qu  'on  suppose,  ce  qui  lui  avait  permis  de  donner  a  son 
spiritualisme  un  fondement  philosophique. 

La  contradiction,  plus  apparente  que  reelle,  qui  resulte  du 
dilemme  dont  nous  venons  de  poser  les  termes,  se  resout  d'elle- 
meme,  si  on  veut  bien  admettre  que  l'auteur  de  Aids  to  Reflection 
et  de  Biographia  Literaria,  en  donnant  a  certains  postulats  de 
la  philosophie  de  Schelling  les  formes  modifiers  qu'elles  prirent 
dans  son  esprit,  fit  siennes  des  conclusions  qu'on  ne  tire  pas 
necessairement  de  ceux  des  ecrits  du  professeur  de  Iena  que  Cole- 
ridge a  le  plus  consult es.27     Ces  conclusions,  qui  n'ont  rien  d'un 


-"  Les  emprunts  faits  par  Coleridge  a  Schelling,  et  la  relation  qu'on 
pent  etablir  entre  certains  passages  des  Ideen  zu  finer  Philosophie  der 
Natur  et  des  Wissenschaftliche  Abhandlungen,  par  exemple,  et  certaines 
declarations  de  Biographia  Literaria,  ont  fait  l'objet  de  vives  discus- 
sions et  controverses  inaugurees  en  1835,  par  la  publication  d'un  article 
du  British  Magazine  (voir  numero  de  Janvier,  pp.  20  et  21)  en  favour  de 
Coleridge,  reprises,  en  1840,  par  Blackwood's  Magazine  (voir  numero  de 
mars)  et  amplifiers  considerablement,  en  1847,  dans  1 'introduction  dont 
Sara  Coleridge,  la  fille  du  poete,  fit  accompagner  1 'edition  nouvelle  de 
Biographia  Literaria,  qu'elle  fit  paraitre. 

II  resulte  d  'une  lecture  attentive  des  oeuvres   de  l'eerivain   qui   nous 


406  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

ensemble  dont  les  diverses  parties  formeraient  par  leur  agence- 
ment  un  tout  harmonieux,  sont  celles  d'un  vague  spiritualisrae 
destine  a  concilier  les  postulats  de  la  raison,  non  seulement  avec 
une  conception  pantheistique  de  la  nature  materielle,  mais  encore 
avec  une  interpretation  litterale  de  l'Ancien  et  du  Nouveau 
Testament.  Semblable  tentative,  en  somme,  ne  tendait  rien 
moins  qu'a  vouloir  expliquer  Kant  par  Schelling,  celui-ci  par 
celui-la,  et  a  faire  de  la  philosophie  de  tous  les  deux  le  naturel 
soutien  de  la  theologie  traditionnelle.  Qu'une  telle  entreprise 
n'ait  pas  ete  sans  creer  des  difficult  es  d 'analyse  et  de  raisonne- 
ment,  sans  preter  a  une  confusion  dont  Coleridge  ne  sut  jamais 
se  liberer  completement,  il  n'y  a,  certes,  pas  lieu  d'en  etre 
surpris. 

Cela  etant,  quelle  a  bien  pu  etre  1 'influence  exercee  par  Cole- 
ridge sur  la  pensee  religieuse  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  ?  A 
semblable  question,  il  y  a  deux  reponses  a  faire  :28  si  on  parle  de 
rinfluence  qu'eurent  les  ecrits  de  Coleridge  sur  la  pensee  re- 
ligieuse des  calvinistes,  et  plus  encore  sur  celle  des  unitaires 


occupe  ici,  que  celui-ci  y  aurait  insere  une  demi-douzaine  de  pages  em- 
pruntees  a  Schelling,  sans  avoir  pris  la  peine  de  mentionner  le  fait.  Ce 
qui  interesse  ici  notre  sujet,  c'est  de  savoir  que  ces  emprunts  ont  ete  mis 
a  contribution  par  l'auteur  de  Biograpliia  Literaria,  d'une  part  dans  son 
Etude  sur  l' imagination,  d 'autre  part  dans  un  Discours  sur  les  Arts  et  la 
Poesie. 

Quant  a  ce  que  Coleridge  appelle  "sa  philosophie  de  la  nature,"  il 
declare  n'en  devoir  qu'a  lui-meme  les  donnees  essentielles,  ajoutant 
toutefois,  qu'il  reconnait  dans  Schelling  celui  qui  le  premier  erigea  en 
systeme  cette  philosophie.  "All  he  lays  claim  to,"  ecrit  Sara  Coleridge, 
"is  the  honor  of  rendering  it  [the  philosophy  of  Schilling]  intelligible  to 
his  countrymen,  and  applying  it  to  the  most  awful  of  subjects  for  the  most 
important  purposes":  "and  certainly  in  the  application  of  philosophical 
principles  to  the  explanation,  and,  as  he  believed,  support  of  the  Catholic 
faith,  by  which  means  the  soundness  of  the  principles  themselves  is  tested, 
he  had  a  walk  of  his  own  in  which  'no  German  that  ever  breathed'  has 
preceded  or  outstripped  him." 

Mr.  DeQuincey  said  of  him,  with  reference  to  another  application  of 
his  thoughts,  that  "he  spun  daily,  from  the  loom  of  his  own  magical 
brain,  theories  more  gorgeous  by  far,  and  supported  by  a  pomp  and 
luxury  of  images  such  as  no  German  that  ever  breathed  could  have 
emulated  in  his  dreams"  (Complete  Works  of  Samuel  Taylor  Coleridge, 
III,  p.  xxvi). 

28  C'est  pour  n 'avoir  point  songe  a  etablir  la  distinction  qu 'impliquent 
ces  deux  reponses  que  les  historiens  du  transcendantalisme  ont  attache 
beaucoup  trop  d 'importance  a  1 'influence  exercee  sur  la  formation  de  ce 
mouvement  par  1 'interpretation  que  donna  Carlyle  de  l'idealisme  alle- 
mand. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  407 

orthocloxes,  nous  sommes  dispose  a  eroire  qu'elle  a  du  etre  assez 
considerable;  si  on  fait  allusion  a  celle  qu'ils  out  eue  sur  ceux 
des  unitaires  qu'on  designa  sous  le  nom  de  transcendantalistes, 
nous  sommes  incline  a  penser  qu'elle  a  du  etre  plutol  negligeable. 
Nous  avons  pour  parler  ainsi  d 'excellentes  raisons. 

Quand  la  philosophic  de  Locke,  sous  les  coups  redoubles  que 
lui  porterent  l'enseignement  de  Dugald  Stewart  et  l'eclectisme 
francais,  perdit  tout  son  prestige;  quand  a  la  meme  epoque  In 
theologie  traditionnelle,  grace  aux  attaques  de  la  critique 
historique,  menaca  mine,  les  calvinistes  et  leurs  freres  uni- 
taires orthodoxes  s'en  furent  a  la  recherche  d'une  philosopbie 
capable  de  raffermir  les  fondements  ebranles  de  la  dogmatique 
chretienne,  et  ne  mirent  pas  longtemps  a  decouvrir  dans  l'auteur 
de  Aids  to  Reflection  le  "theologien-philosophe"  qu'il  leur  fal- 
lait.  Quant  aux  unitaires  liberaux,  qui  avaient  abandonne  suc- 
cessivement  la  doctrine  de  1 'inspiration  pleiniere  et  celle  de  1 'ex- 
piation, avant  meme  d 'avoir  renonce  a  leur  croyance  an  miracle 
biblique,  ils  s'en  furent  a  la  recherche  d'une  philosophic  capable 
de  justifier  l'existence  du  sentiment  religieux,  et  de  concilier  les 
interets  d'un  christianisme  tout  simplement  evangelique  avec  les 
postulate  de  la  raison,  et  trouverent  dans  Benjamin  Constant  et 
dans  Victor  Cousin  les  fideles  interpretes  d'un  spiritualisme  qui 
repondait  mieux  que  toute  autre  doctrine,  d'une  part  a  leurs 
besoins  religieux,  d  'autre  part  aux  preoccupations  philosophiques 
qui  s'y  etaient  attachees.  Des  lors,  s'il  est  naturel  de  supposer 
que  les  ecrits  de  Coleridge  eurent  sur  la  pensee  religieuse  ortho- 
doxe  une  influence  marquee,  il  ne  l'est  plus  d'attacher  la  meme 
importance  a  celle  qu'ils  ont  pu  exercer  sur  la  formation  du 
transcendantalisme. 

II  importe  de  se  rappeler  que  celui  des  ouvrages  de  Coleridge 
qui  eut  le  plus  de  succes  a  l'epoque  qui  nous  occupe  c'est  Aids  I" 
Reflection,29  c'est-a-dire  un  ouvrage  dans  lequel  toutes  questions 


29  Samuel  Taylor  Coleridge  (1772-1834),  Aids  to  Reflection,  in  Hie  Forma- 
tion of  Manly  Character,  in  the  Several  Grounds  of  Prudence,  Morality  and 
Religion,  London,  1825.  C'est  d'apres  cette  premiere  edition  que  Jamea 
Marsh  (1794-1842),  president  de  l'universite  de  Vermont,  fit  paraitre,  en 
1828,  l'edition  americaine  d«  c<;t  ouvrage,  qu'il  fit  preeeder  d'un  im- 
portant essai  sur  la  philosopbie  de  Coleridge. 


408  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

de  morale  et  de  religion  sont  traitees  a  un  point  de  vue  stricte- 
ment  orthodoxe;  que  Biographia  Literaria30  et  les  essais  parus 
dans  The  Friend31  n'exposent  que  par  fragments,  en  des  termes 
le  plus  souvent  vagues  et  obscurs,  la  philosophie  des  idealistes 
allemands;  et  puis  surtout,  qu'il  n'y  a  aucune  espece  de  rapport 
entre  la  conception  qu'eurent  de  la  religion  et  du  christianisme 
un  Channing,  un  Ripley  et  un  Theodore  Parker,  et  celle  qu'en 
eut  l'auteur  des  deux  ouvrages  que  nous  venons  de  mentionner. 

Coleridge,  il  ne  faut  pas  l'oublier,  est  un  trinitaire  demeure 
attache  a  toutes  les  doctrines  essentielles  du  calvinisme,32  a  celle 
de  1 'inspiration  pleiniere  des  Ecritures,  a  celle  du  sacrifice  ex- 
piatoire,  ainsi  qu'a  la  croyance  au  miracle  biblique.  S  'il  se  com- 
plait  dans  les  hautes  spheres  de  la  metaphysique,  e'est  qu'il  croit 
y  decouvrir  tout  un  monde  d 'arguments  en  faveur  de  la  dog- 
matique  traditionnelle.  Qu'il  ne  soit  pas  facile  de  le  suivre  et  de 
le  comprendre,  lorsque  dans  ces  hautes  regions  son  ame  com- 
munie  avec  celle  des  mystiques  et  des  idealistes  allemands,  e'est 
ce  dont  nous  convainc  le  temoignage  que  nous  out  laisse  ceux  qui 
se  sont  essaye  a  cette  tache  difficile.  "We  consider  him"  (Cole- 
ridge) lisons-nous,  par  exemple,  dans  une  des  revues33  de  la 
Nouvelle-Angleterre  qui  firent  a  ses  ecrits  l'accueil  le  plus  sym- 
pathique,  "as  in  possession  of  a  treasure  of  valuable  truth,  and 
capable  of  doing  a  great  service  in  the  formation  of  manly  char- 
acter, on  the  principles  of  a  sound  philosophy.  But  the  obscurity 
which  has  been  complained  of  in  his  thoughts,  is  certainly  to  be 
found  in  his  style ;  and  that  to  such  a  degree  as  to  make  what  he 
has  hitherto  written  inaccessible  to  the  great  majority  of  his 
readers. ' ' 


so  Biographia  Literaria,  or  Biographical  Sketches  of  my  Literary  Life 
and  Opinions,  by  S.  T.  Coleridge.     London  and  New  York,  1817. 

si  The  Friend,  a  series  of  Essays  to  aid  in  the  Formation  of  Fixed  Princi- 
ples in  Politics,  Morals,  and  'Religion,  with  Literary  Amusements  Inter- 
spersed. First  Amer.  Edition,  from  the  second  London  Edition,  1831. 
La  premiere  edition  americaine  complete  des  ceuvres  de  Coleridge  oarut 
en  1852,  en  7  volumes  edites  par  W.  G.  T.  Shedd,  professeur  a  l'universite 
de  Vermont. 

32  "To  him"  (Coleridge)  "the  worn-out  doctrines  of  the  English 
Church  were  in  every  point  the  perfection  of  doctrine,  the  alpha  and 
omega  of  Christianity"   (Christian  Examiner,  XXIII,  p.  187). 

33  Christian  Examiner,  IX,  p.  74;  ibid.,  XIV,  p.  117. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisrrn  409 

"As  a  prose  writer,"  lisons-nons  ailhmrs,  '•  lie  has  aever  been 
popular,  as  a  philosopher,  though  at  once  subtile  and  profound 
and  deeply  versed  in  all  the  mysteries  of  the  inner  man,  be  has 
gained  little  else  than  smiles  of  compassion  and  ominous  shaking 
of  heads  by  his  metaphysical  speculations.  .  .  .  Had  it  been  given 
to  him  to  interpret  German  metaphysics  to  his  countrymen,  as 
Mr.  Cousin  has  interpreted  them  to  the  French  nation,  or  had  it 
been  possible  for  him  to  have  constructed  a  system  of  his  own, 
we  should  not  have  regretted  his  indulgence  of  a  passion  which 
we  must  now  condemn  as  a  source  of  morbid  dissatisfaction  with 
received  opinions,  unjustified  by  any  serious  attempt  to  intro- 
duce others  and  better. ' ' 

Nous  sommes  bien  certain  que  la  prose  de  Coleridge,  voire  sa 
philosophic,  ue  meritent  pas  tous  les  reproches  qu'on  leur  a 
faits.34  De  plus  qualifies  que  nous  pour  juger  des  merites  de 
l'une  et  de  l'autre  en  surent  parler  avec  moins  de  severite.  Le 
chose,  du  reste,  a  moins  d 'importance  qu'il  pent  paraitre  a 
premiere  vue.  II  nous  suffit  de  savoir  que  l'auteur  de  Aids  to 
Reflection  et  de  Biographia  Literaria  demeura  toute  sa  vie  ferme- 
ment  attache  aux  doctrines  calvinistes  traditionnelles,  et  fit  servir 
a  leur  defense  les  donnees  incompletes  de  sa  metaphysique, 
tandis  que  ceux  des  unitaires  dont  le  liberalisme  fait  le  sujet  de 
notre  these,  s'etaient  eloignes  peu  a  peu  de  toutes  controverses 
theologiques  et  ne  porterent  jamais  grand  interet  aux  specula- 
tions d'ordre  purement  metaphysique,  pour  que  nous  soyons 
autorise  a  dire  qu'on  doit  parler  avec  beaucoup  de  reserves  de 
1 'influence  exercee  par  ridealisme  des  philosophes  allemands,  in- 
terprete  par  Coleridge,  sur  la  formation  du  transcendantalisme. 


34  Les  eerits  de  V.  Cousin  et  de  B.  Constant  n  'eussent-ils  pas  ete  fa- 
miliers  aux  transcendantalistes,  que  1 'influence  de  Coleridge  sur  la  pensee 
religieuse  des  unitaires  liberaux  n  'aurait  pas  manque  d'etre  beaucoup  plus 
considerable  qu 'elle  n  'a  ete,  malgre  les  obstacles  que  lui  creaient  les  opi- 
nions theologiques  du  philosophe  anglais.  11  y  avait,  en  effet.  dans  la 
philosophic  de  Coleridge,  tout  incomplete  et  vague  qu 'elle  ait  ete,  les 
elements  d 'un  spiritualisme  en  bien  des  points  semblable  a  eelui  des  dis- 
ciples de  Dugald  Stewart  et  des  eclectiques  franc,ais,  et  cela  seul  suffit  a 
expliquer  la  popularity  qu 'elle  recut  dans  certains  milieux.  Mais,  comme 
le  faisait  remarquer  Georges  Ripley  lui-meme,  "the  objects  at  which  Cole- 
ridge aims  are  in  great  measure  accomplished  by  the  philosophy  of  Cousin" 
(Geo.  Ripley,  Specimens  of  Foreign  Standard  Literal  lire.  I,  p.  42). 


410  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

Nous  nous  dispenserions  de  parler  iei  de  Carlyle,  si  les  his- 
toriens  de  la  philosophic  en  Amerique,  un  Frothingham,  un 
Kiley,  un  Goddard,  un  Van  Becelaere,  par  exemple,  n 'avaient 
fait  suivre  constamment  le  nom  de  Coleridge  de  celui  du  fameux 
historieu  anglais,  chaque  fois  qu'ils  s'appliquerent  a  1 'etude  des 
origines  du  transcendantalisme.  Disposes  conime  ils  ne  l'etaient 
que  trop  a  identifier  celui-ei  avec  rindividualisme  et  le  ratio- 
nalisme  d'un  Emerson  et  d'un  Thoreau,  et  sachant  toute  1 'admi- 
ration que  le.  premier  portait  a  Tauteur  de  Sartor  Resartus  et  de 
Heroes  and  Hero-worship,  ils  ne  pouvaient  manquer  .d  'exagerer 
1 'importance  que  pouvait  avoir  eue  sur  la  pensee  religieuse  libe- 
rale  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  rinfluenee  d'ouvrages  tels  qu'une 
traduction  du  Wilhelm  Meister  de  Goethe,  une  biographie  de 
Schiller,  on  les  essais  que  Carlyle  eerivit  sur  Fichte  et  Jean  Paul. 
Du  fait  que  rhistorien  anglais  fut  le  premier  a  faire  connaitre  et 
a  faire  apprecier  a  ses  contemporains  un  pays,  une  litterature  et 
une  philosophie  qu'avant  lui  l'Angleterre  et  l'Amerique  avaient 
ignorees  completement,35  il  ne  resulte  pas  necessairement  que  ce 
qu'il  en  eerivit  ait  du  immediatement  modifier  le  courant  d'une 
pensee  philosophique  dont  les  formes  deja  modifiees  qu'elle  garda 
tout  le  long  de  la  premiere  moitie  du  19me  siecle,  avaient  ete 
empruntees  a  l'eclectisme  d'un  Victor  Cousin  et  d'un  Theodore 
Jouffroy,  non  moins  qu'au  spiritualisme  d'un  Benjamin  Cons- 
tant.    Nous  avons  d'autant  plus  de  raisons  d'insister  sur  ce 


3?  II  est  interessant  de  coustater  que  e  'est  la  lecture  du  livre  de  Mine, 
de  Stael  sur  l'Allemagne  qui  suggera  a  Carlyle  l'idee  d'etudier  la  lit- 
terature et  la  philosophie  de  ee  pays.  C'est  vers  1815  que  le  futur  auteur 
de  la  premiere  traduction  en  anglais  de  Wilhelm  Meister  s'en  fut  a  la 
recherche  d'un  maitre  d'allemand,  qu'il  finit  par  deeouvrir  a  Edimbourg, 
dans  la  personne  d'un  Juif  polonais;  peu  satisfait,  toutefois,  des  eapa- 
cites  pedagogiques  de  ce  dernier,  il  eut  recours  aux  services  d  'un  certain 
Jardine,  qui  venait  de  rentrer  en  Ecosse  apres  un  court  sejour  a  Got- 
tingue.  Ne  trouvant  a  acheter  a  Edimbourg  aucun  livre  allemand.  il  fit 
venir  de  l'etranger  les  ceuvres  de  Schiller,  qu'il  re^ut  quatre  mois  plus 
tard,  et  se  mit  serieusement  a  1 'etude  de  la  langue  allemande.  Voir  Nor- 
ton, I,  p.  480. 

Malgre  la  publication,  avant  1833,  des  articles  que  Carlyle  fit  paraitre 
sur  Eichter,  Schiller  et  Goethe,  dans  l'ancienne  Foreign  Review,  dans 
\'Eilinbnrgh  Review,  et  plus  tard  dans  le  Foreign  Quarterly,  la  litterature 
allemande  n  'eut  pas  en  Angleterre,  et  nous  pouvons  ajouter,  en  Amerique, 
avant  1840,  tout  le  succes  que  l'on  suppose  generalement.  Cf.  Edinburgh 
Review,  XL VI,  p.  307. 


1916]  Grirard:  Du  transcendantalisme  in 

point,  que  Carlyle,  tout  en  appreciant  a  leur  juste  valeur  la  pro- 
fondeur  et  l'independance  de  pensee  d'un  Goethe  ou  d'un  Schil- 
ler, n'eut  point  pour  la  philosophie  des  idealistes  allemands  toute 
1 'admiration,  voire  la  consideration,  que  d'aucuns  supposent. 
"Kant's  philosophy,"  ecrit-il  dans  un  de  ses  essais,  "is  not  only 
an  absurdity,  but  a  wickedness  and  a  horror ;  .  .  .  his  doctrine  is 
a  region  of  boundless  baleful  gloom,  too  cunningly  broken  here 
and  there  by  splendors  of  unholy  fire.36  "Schelling's  system," 
dit-il  ailleurs,  "differs  widely  from  ours;  .  .  .  fairer  might  it  be 
in  us  to  say  that  we  had  not  appreciated  his  truth,  and  therefore 
could  not  appreciate  his  error. '  '37 

Qu'on  se  souvienne  done  qu'il  nV  a  rien  de  commun,  comme 
nous  raffirmions  plus  haut,  entre  l'individualisme  hautain  de 
l'historien  anglais  et  le  spiritualisme  tout  evangelique  des  pre- 
miers transcendantalistes ;  que  1  'interprete  de  la  pensee  alle- 
mande  aupres  des  peuples  anglo-saxons  n'eut  pour  l'idealisme 
d'un  Kant  ou  d'un  Schelling,  d'un  Herder  ou  d'un  Schleier- 
macher,  aucune  espece  de  sympathie ;  que  ceux  des  ecrits  de 
Carlyle  qui  parurent  avant  1845  furent  declares  inintelligiblcs^ 
par  celles  des  revues  anglaises  et  americaines  qui  consentirent  a 
les  presenter  au  public,  et  Ton  se  convaincra  que  si  la  pensee 
allemande  a  pu  exercer  quelque  influence  sur  le  mouvement  de 
pensee  religieuse  que  nous  sonrmes  en  voie  d'etudier,  elle  le  doit 
en  assez  faible  mesure  a  l'interpretation  qu'en  donnerent  les 
deux  ecrivains  anglais  que  nous  avons  cites. 

5.  Observations  generales  sur  les  origines  franchises  du 
transcendantalisme  considere  sous  son  aspect  religieux 
Ayant  determine  ce  que  le  transcendantalisme  doit  a  l'ide- 
alisme chretien  d'un  Herder  et  d'un  Schleiermacher,  d'une 
part,  a  1 'interpretation  que  donnerent  de  la  philosophie  alle- 
mande Coleridge  et  Carlyle,  d'autre  part,  il  nous  sera  ma'inte- 


se  Carlyle,  Critical  and  Miscellaneous  Essays,  I,  p.  74. 
37  Meme  ouvrage,  I,  p.  76. 

38"  Carlyle 's   Works   are   triumphantly   condemned   by  the    whole    re- 
viewing world  as  clearly  unintelligible."     Id.,  II,  p.  3. 


412  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

nant  plus  facile  d  'etablir  avec  assurance  ce  qu  'il  a  pu  emprunter 
au  spiritualisme  francais. 

Revenant  pour  un  instant  a  la  definition  qu'un  Channing,  un 
Ripley,  un  Theodore  Parker,  par  exemple,  donnerent  du  trans- 
cendantalisme,  rappelons  que  celui-ci  suppose  l'existence,  dans 
1  'homme,  d  'une  f aculte  speciale,  grace  a  laquelle  il  a  conscience 
de  1  'existence  de  Dieu.  II  resulte  de  ce  fait  de  conscience,  ante- 
rieur  a  tout  raisonnement  et  independant  de  toute  experience 
sensible,  que  1 'homme  est  de  par  sa  nature  meme  un  etre  re- 
ligieux,  quelles  que  puissent  etre  les  croyances  speciales  anx- 
quelles  auront  pu  le  conduire  l'education  qu'il  a  reeue  et  le 
milieu  dans  lequel  les  circonstances  1  'ont  place ;  que  la  religion 
est  une  et  universelle,  malgre  les  changements  successifs  que 
subissent  fatalement  les  formes  ton  jours  imparfaites  dans 
lesquelles  les  homines  tentent  de  fixer  les  sentiments  qu'ils 
eprouvent.  Nous  avons  vu  ailleurs  que  les  deux  propositions  que 
nous  venous  d'enoncer  etaient  destinees  a  combattre,  tout  a  la 
fois,  la  doctrine  du  peche  originel  et  celle  du  sensualisme,  telles 
que  les  avait  def endues  l'auteur  de  VEssai  sur  I'entendement 
hit  main.  Que  maintenant  nous  reussissions  a  etablir  que  les 
transcendantalistes  ne  furent  pas  sans  lire  les  ecrits  de  Mme.  de 
Stael  et  de  Benjamin  Constant;30  que,  d 'autre  part,  nous  consta- 
tions  que  les  spiritualistes  francais  exposerent  les  idees  fonda- 
mentales  du  mouvement  de  pensee  religieuse  que  nous  etudions, 
dans  les  termes  que  choisirent  pour  les  exprimer  les  transcen- 
dantalistes, et  nous  serons  autorise  a  en  conclure  que  les  uns  ne 
furent  pas  sans  exercer  sur  les  autres  une  reelle  influence. 


39  II  eut  peut-etre  convenu  d  'ajouter  a  ces  noms  celui  de  J.  J.  Eous- 
seau.  Si  nous  ne  l'avons  point  fait,  c'est  que  1 'influence  exercee  par  les 
ecrits  de  ce  dernier  sur  le  transcendantalisme  se  fit  sentir  beaucoup  plus 
dans  le  domaine  social  cpie  dans  le  domaine  religieux.  II  conviendra  done 
de  l'indiquer  dans  la  troisieme  partie  de  notre  travail.  II  en  sera  de 
meme  de  celle  qu 'on  peut  attribuer  aux  ecrits  de  G.  Sand,  de  P.  Leroux 
et  de  C.  Fourier.  Quant  a  1 'influence  exercee  par  J.  M.  de  Gerando,  V. 
Cousin  et  T.  Jouffroy  sur  le  transcendantalisme,  elle  fera  l'objet  d'un 
chapitre  special  dans  cette  partie  de  notre  travail  que  nous  consacrerons 
a  1 'etude  du  transcendantalisme  considere  sous  son  aspect  philosophique. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisrrn  41 :; 

6.  Madame  de  Stael  et  les  transcendantalistes 
Si  Mine,  de  Stael  fut  la  premiere  a  faire  connaitre  a  L'Angle- 
terre40  l'Allemagne  et  sa  litterature,  elle  fut  aussi  la  premiere  a 
interpreter  aupres  du  public  cultive  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre 
la  pensee  philosophique  et  religieuse  des  grands  idealistes  alle- 
mands.  Bien  avant  Carlyle,  meme  avant  Coleridge,  elle  initia 
les  tres  nombreux  lecteurs  qu'eurent  ses  premiers  ouvrages  a 
Boston  et  ailleurs,  a  la  metaphysique  d'un  Kant  ou  d'un  Fichte, 
d'un  Jaeobi  ou  d'un  Schelling. 

Si  le  livre  intitule  Dc  l'Allemagne,  livre  qui,  pour  les  raisons 
que  Ton  sait,  parut  a  Londres,  en  1813,  et  non  pas  a  Paris,  ne  fut 
guere  connu  en  Amerique  que  vers  1820,  il  y  fut  accueilli  et 
discute  a  partir  de  cette  date  avee  un  interet  qui  se  changea  bien 
vite  en  sympathie.  II  n  'est  pas  une  revue  anglaise  ou  americaine 
de  cette  epoque  qui  n'en  parle  avec  bienveillance.  Si  vers  1820 
on  s'avise  encore  de  faire  remarquer  que  1 'expose  de  la  philoso- 
phic et  de  la  metaphysique  allemandes,  tel  que  le  presentait 
l'auteur  du  livre  que  nous  venons  de  citer,  n'est  rien  moins 
qu'obscur  et  inintelligible,  un  peu  plus  tard,  vers  1829,  en  par- 
ticulier,  on  ne  trouvera  point  d 'expression  assez  forte  pour  dire 
toute  1 'admiration  qu'on  porte  aux  ecrits  de  Mme.  de  Stael. 


40  Nous  avons  (lit  ailleurs  que  ee  fut  apres  avoir  lu  le  livre  de  Mme. 
de  Stael  sur  l'Allemagne  que  Carlyle  conqut  le  projet  d'etudier  la  littera- 
ture, l'histoire  et  la  philosophie  de  ce  pays.  "So  late  as  1811,"  lisons- 
nous  dans  I'Edinburgh  Review  (XLVI,  p.  312),  "we  find  from  Pinkt  rton  's 
Geography  the  sole  representative  of  German  literature  to  be  '  Gottshed ' 
with  his  name  wrong  spelled  (Gottscdied). " 

C'est  en  1813  que  pour  la  premiere  fois  la  Revue  d'Edimbourg  fait 
une  allusion  precise  a  ce  qui  se  passe  en  Allemagne,  et  cela  a  l'occasion 
d'un  article  qu'elle  publie  a  l'occasion  de  1 'apparition  du  livre  De  l'Alle- 
magne: "During  the  greater  part  of  the  last  century,"  lisons-nous  en 
1827  dans  la  dite  revue,  "in  our  intellectual  survey  of  the  world,  the 
Germans  were  quietly  omitted;  ...  a  vague  contemptuous  ignorance 
prevailed  respecting  them.  Mme.  de  Stael's  book  has  done  away  with 
this;  all  Europe  is  now  aware  that  the  Germans  are  something."  (Edin- 
burgh Beview,  XLVI,  p.  311). 

II  n'est  pas  sans  interet  pour  le  sujet  que  nous  traitons  dc  rappeler  ce 
qui  precede.  Ce  que  disent  Carlyle  et  la  Revue  d'Edimbourg  du  livre  de 
Mme.  Stael,  prouve  de  fac,on  eA-idente  que  le  transcendantalisme  fut 
redevable  a  ce  dernier,  non  pas  seulement  de  1 'interpretation  qu'il  con- 
tenait  de  quelques  fragments  epars  de  la  philosophie  allemande,  mais 
aussi,  peut-etre  meme  davantage,  au  spiritualisme  rousseauiste  dont  ce 
meme  livre  en  maints  endroits  etait  1 'expression. 


414  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

' '  Few  books  in  modern  times, ' '  lisons-nous,  par  exemple,  dans 
la  North  American  Revieiv*1  "have  been  read  so  eagerly  and  uni- 
versally and  known  so  far  as  hers.  No  writer  of  our  times  has 
enjoyed,  upon  the  whole,  so  extensive  a  reputation  as  Mme.  de 
Stael,  ...  it  would  be  difficult  to  find  a  name  that  can  come  in 
competition  with  hers  since  the  time  of  Voltaire  and  Rousseau. '  '42 
Les  oeuvres  de  Mme.  de  Stael,  lisons-nous  quelques  annees  plus 
tard  (1829),  "are  deserving  of  the  highest  praise.  We  feel  after 
the  perusal  of  her  pages  that  our  minds  are  filled  with  noble 
ideas,  lofty  sentiments,  warmer  affection  .  for  our  kindred  and 
friends,  with  more  generous  benevolence  and  good  will  toward 
our  species,  and  with  greater  hopes  for  its  amelioration.  We 
feel  that  virtue  is  more  than  a  name,  that  our  lives  have  a  higher 
object  than  the  gratification  of  self-love  and  personal  interest. ' ,i3 

Que  W.  E.  Channing,  G.  Ripley,  et  Marg.  Fuller  aient  connu 
les  ouvrages  de  Mme.  de  Stael,  e'est  ce  dont  nous  sommes  certain, 
puisqu'ils  en  font  mention  occasionnellement.  Que  la  lecture 
qu'ils  firent,  en  particulier,  du  livre  intitule  De  I'Allemagne*4  ait 
exerce  sur  la  conception  que  se  firent  de  la  religion  et  du  senti- 
ment religieux  les  transcendantalistes ;  que  ceux-ci  aient  decou- 
vert  dans  cet  ouvrage  quelques  arguments  en  faveur  de  leur  re- 
futation du  sensualisme  et  de  l'utilitarisme,  c'est  ce  qui  parait 
resulter  d'un  rapprochement  de  la  definition  du  transcendan- 
talisme,  telle  qu'elle  derive  des  ecrits  des  unitaires  liberaux  dont 
nous  venous  de  dire  les  noms,  et  le  spiritualisme  de  Mme.  Stael. 
II  y  line  telle  analogie  entre  celui-ci  et  le  transcendantalisme  tel 
qu'il  nous  apparait  sous  son  aspect  religieux,  que,  sachant  tout 
Finteret  qu'on  porta  dans  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  aux  ecrits  de 
Fauteur  du  livre  De  I'Allemagne,  on  ne  peut  s'empecher  d'ad- 
mettre  que  Fun  n'a  pu  etre  sans  exercer  sur  Fautre  une  reelle 
influence. 


•ii  II,  pp.  20,  21. 

*2  id.,  XIV,  p.  102. 

43  id.,  XXXVII,  p.  20. 

4*  Si  nous  avons  juge  a  propos  de  ne  mentionner  iei  que  le  livre  De 
I'Allemagne,  c'est  que  le  contenu  des  autres  ouvrages  de  Mme.  de  Stael, 
meme  de  celui  qui  s  'intitule  De  la  Htterature  cousideree  dans  ses  rapports 
avec  les  constitutions  sociales,  n  'a  rien  a  f  aire  avec  le  sujet  special  qui 
nous  occupe  presentement. 


1916]  Girard:  Bit  transcendantalismi  -\\r, 

Ce  que  fut  la  nature  de  cette  influence,  nous  le  verrons  ap- 
paraitre  dans  une  serie  de  passages  que  tout  a  l'heure  nous  ex- 
trairons  de  l'ouvrage  que  nous  venons  de  mentionner,  passages 
dont  les  termes  correspondent  si  bien  a  ceux  que,  par  endroits, 
les  transcendantalistes  choisirent  pour  exprimer  leurs  concep- 
tions de  la  religion  et  du  sentiment  religieux,  qu'on  ne  pent 
s  'empecher  de  s  'arreter  aux  conclusions  que  nous  avons  indiquees. 

Nous  n'entreprendrons  point  de  determiner  ce  qui  dans  le 
spiritualisme  de  Mme.  de  Stael  appartient  a  la  philosophic  alle- 
mande  et  ce  qui  n 'appartient  qu'a  elle-meme.  Pareille  tentative 
nous  obligerait  a  faire  intervenir  dans  notre  discussion  Aug. 
Wilhelm  Schlegel,  et  puis,  surtout,  J.  J.  Rousseau,45  dont  hauteur 
du  livre  De  I'Allemagne  partagea  de  bonne  heure  l'idealisme,  et 


45 II  ne  serait  pas  difficile  de  montrer  que  ceux  des  elements  du 
spiritualisme  de  Mme.  de  Stael  que  nous  retrouvons  dans  la  philosophie 
d  'Emmanuel  Kant,  sont  dus,  chez  ce  dernier,  a  1 'influence  exercee  sur  lui 
par  l'auteur  de  I'Emile  et  de  la  Profession  de  foi  du  Vicaire  Savoyard. 
Comme  le  fait  remarquer  M.  I.  Benrubi,  dans  son  article  sur  "Rousseau 
en  Allemagne, "  (Voir  Annates  de  la  Societe  Jean-Jacques  Rousseau.  VIII, 
pp.  101,  102,  103):  "1 'influence  de  Eousseau  a  ete  decisive  pour  tout 
1 'ensemble  de  l'ceuvre  de  Kant." 

L'auteur  de  I'Emile  ne  cache  pas  1 'aversion  qu'il  eprouve  pour  le 
dogmatisme  des  philosophes  et  des  metaphysiciens;  "  il  a  horreur  des 
idees  generales  et  abstraites, "  et,  certes,  sur  ce  point,  il  est  aux  anti- 
podes du  fameux  auteur  de  la  Critique  de  la  raison  pure,  et  il  admet  que 
"le  seul  moyen  de  saisir  la  realite  vivante  est  de  consulter  la  lumiere 
interieure,  de  rentrer  en  nous-memes. "  C'est  en  faisant  cela,  ajoute-t-il 
ailleurs,  que  l'homme  deeouvre  "qu'il  n 'y  a  pas  de  realite  independante 
de  nous,  que  notre  activite  est  creatrice  de  realite." 

Que  1'on  compare  la  critique  que  fit  J.  J.  Rousseau  du  sensualisme  de 
Locke,  du  scepticisme  de  Hume  et  du  dogmatisme  de  la  theologie  eal- 
viniste — et  ne  sont-ce  pas  la  les  doctrines  memes  qu'attaquerent  plus  tard 
les  transcendantalistes — avec  celle  qu'en  fit  le  philosophe  de  Konigsberg, 
et  1  'on  sera  surpris  de  1  'analogie  qui  existe  entre  1  'une  et  1  'autre.  Qu  'on 
se  souvienne  maintenant  que  Mme.  de  Stael  fut  grande  admiratrice  et 
disciple  de  Rousseau,  et  l'on  voudra  bien  admettre  que  si  elle  exer^a  sur 
la  formation  du  transcendantalisme  quelque  influence,  ce  ne  fut  pas  qu'en 
sa  qualite  d'interprete  occasionnelle  de  la  philosophie  allemande. 

Comme  nous  l'allons  voir,  ce  que  l'auteur  du  livre  Be  I'Allemagni  ap- 
precie  chez  les  philosophes  allemands,  c'est  leur  spiritualisme.  qui  cor- 
respond si  bien  a.  l'etat  d'ame  qu'elle  s'est  fait  a  l'ecole  de  Rousseau,  et 
non  point  leurs  raisonnements,  qu'elle  accuse  de  ne  servir  qu'assez  mal 
la  cause  de  la  verite.  "  Un  si  petit  nombre  d'esprits  sont  capables  de 
les  comprendre, "  ecrit-elle,  "  et  ceux  qui  en  sont  capables  out  une  telle 
tendance  a  se  combattre  les  uns  les  autres,  que  c'est  rendre  un  grand 
service  a  la  foi  religieuse,  que  de  bannir  la  metaphysique  de  toutes  les 
questions  qui  tiennent  a  1 'existence  de  Dieu,  au  libre  arbitre,  a  l'origine 
du  bien  et  du  mal"  (Be  I'Allemagne,  p.  443-444). 


416  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

auxquels  il  emprimta,  beaucoup  plus  qu'aux  philosophes  alle- 
mands,  ceux  des  elements  spiritualistes  que  nous  retrouvons  chez 
les  transcendantalistes.  Que  Mme.  de  Stael  se  soit  faite,  aupres 
de  ces  derniers,  l'interprete  sympathique  de  la  philosophie  alle- 
mande,  nul  ne  songera  a  le  contester ;  que  ce  soit  seulement  ce 
qu'elle  exposa  de  cette  philosophie  et  non  point  les  idees  spiri- 
tualistes qu'elle  fit  siennes  et  qu'elle  exprima  en  niaints  endroits 
du  livre  que  nous  avons  cite,  c'est  ce  dont  nous  avons  des  raisons 
de  douter. 

W.  E.  Channing,  qu'on  appela  le  Fenelon  de  l'Amerique,  et 
G.  Ripley,  son  disciple  accompli,  n'etaient  point  des  philosophes 
dans  le  sens  technique  de  cette  expression ;  et  si  nous  ne  nous 
etonnons  point  qu'ils  parlent  avec  assez  d 'indifference  d'un  Kant 
ou  d'un  Fichte,  comme  le  fit,  du  reste,  meme  un  Orestes  A.  Brown- 
son,  qui  ne  manquait  pourtant  point  d'etre  un  parfait  logicien, 
nous  ne  sommes  pas  davantage  surpris,  connaissant  leur  etat 
d'ame  et  leurs  preoccupations,  qu'ils  n'aient  eu  que  louanges  et 
admiration — nous  allons  voir  plus  loin  qu'il  en  fut  bien  ainsi — 
pour  ceux  des  ecrivains  et  philosophes  francais  qui  surent  as- 
socier  si  ingenieusement  le  quietisme  du  "cygne  de  Cambrai," 
le  spiritualisme  de  J.  J.  Rousseau,  et  l'idealisme  allemand,  qu'ils 
en  firent  comme  une  religion  nouvelle.  Cela  etant,  il  nous  sera 
permis  de  supposer  que  si  le  transcendantalisme  doit  quelque 
chose  a  l'auteur  du  livre  De  I'Alh  magne,  il  le  doit  non  moiiis  an 
disciple  de  A.  W.  Schlegel  et  de  J.  J.  Rousseau  qu'a  l'interprete 
occasionnel  de  la  philosophie  allemande.  La  chose,  du  reste,  ici 
nous  importe  assez  peu,  puisqu'il  s'agit  pour  nous,  non  point  de 
rechercher  quelles  furent  les  origines  du  spiritualisme  de  Mme. 
de  Stael,  mais  de  determiner,  dans  la  mesure  du  possible,  la  nature 
de  1 'influence  qu'a  pu  exercer  l'auteur  du  livre  que  nous  citons 
constamment,  sur  la  formation  du  transcendantalisme.  Que  les 
donnees  essentielles  de  cette  derniere  forme  du  liberalisme  uni- 
taire  se  trouvent  implieitement  dans  le  spiritualisme  de  Mme.  de 
Stael,  c'est  ce  qui  resultera  du  texte  meme  des  passages  que  nous 
allons  citer. 

Dans  le  fameux  ouvrage  que  nous  avons  maintes  fois  men- 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  -M7 

tionne,  Mme.  de  Stael,  faisant  un  expose  de  ses  vues  sur  la  re- 
ligion, dit  en  parlant  d'Ancillon,40  qu'elle  f  elicit  e 

d 'avoir  mis  le  sublime  a  la  portee  de  la  logique:  il  trace  avee  precision 
la  ligne  oil  les  connaissanees  experimentales  s  'arretent,  soit  dans  les  arts, 
soit  dans  la  philosophic,  soit  dans  la  religion;  il  montre  que  le  sentimenl 
va  beaueoup  plus  loin  que  les  connaissanees,  et  que,  par  dels*  les  preuves 
demonstratives,  il  y  a  l'evidence  naturelle;  par  dela  l'analyse,  L'inspira 
tion;  par  dela  les  mots,  les  idees;  par  dela  les  idees,  les  emotions,  et  que  lt- 
sentiment  de  l'infini — ou  sentiment  religieux — est  un  fait  de  I'ame  un 
fait  primitif  sans  lequel  il  n  V  aurait  rien  dans  l'homme  que  de  I 'instinct 
et  du  calcul. 

"Le  raisonnement, "  continue  Mme.  de  Stael,  "finit  ou  commence 
la  veritable  certitude ;  car  les  verites  de  sentiment  out  une  force 
d'intensite  qui  appelle  toute  notre  ame  a  leur  appui."47  "II  n'y 
a  que  le  genie  du  sentiment  qui  soit  au-dessus  de  la  philosophic 
experimentale,  comme  de  la  philosophic  speculative;"  ecrit-elle 
ailleurs,  "il  n'y  a  que  lui  qui  puisse  porter  la  conviction  an  dela 
des  limit es  de  la  raison  humaine.''4S 

Ce  que  Mme.  de  Stael  reproche  a  Locke,  e'est  "de  n 'avoir 
point  assez  insiste  sur  la  persuasion  intime,  seule  veritable  base 
de  ce  qui  est  superieur  a  l'entendement.''  II  faut  croire,  nous 
dit-elle, 

a  de  certaines  verites  comme  a  1 'existence;  c 'est  I'ame  qui  nous  les 
revele,  et  les  raisonnements  de  tout  genre  ne  sont  jamais  que  de  faibles 
derives  de  cette  source.  Dans  la  region  des  verites  intellectuelles  et  re- 
ligieuses,  il  faut  se  servir  de  notre  conscience  intime  comme  d 'une 
demonstration.4^ 

Ce  que  Mme.  de  Stael  apprecie  avant  tout  chez  les  idealistes 
allemands,  e'est  qu'ils  regardent  le  sentiment  "comme  un  fait, 
comme  le  fait  primitif  de  I'ame,  comme  la  verite  elle-meme ;"""'  ce 
dont  elle  leur  sait  gre,  ce  n'est  point  de  la  majestueuse  grandeur 


+>>  J.  P.  Ancillon  (1766-1837),  ministre  protestant,  historien  et  homme 
d'Etat;  d 'origine  franchise,  ne  a  Berlin  en  1766;  auteur  de  Melanges  </- 
Litterature  et  de  PMlosophie,  et  de  quelques  ouvrages  d'histoire. 

4"  Dt  I'Allemagne,  pp.  olo-oll. 

48  Id.,  p.  435. 

49  Id.,  p.  436. 


418  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

des  systeines  qu'ils  coneurent,  ou  de  1 'enchancement  logique  des 
preuves  qu'ils  apportent  a  l'appui  de  leur  argumentation,  mais 
bien  de  l'importance  qu'ils  attachent  au  sentiment  religieux. 
Elle  se  rejouit  a  la  pensee  qu 'Emmanuel  Kant  ''en  rapportant  au 
sentiment  la  connaissance  des  verites  transcendantes,  est  loin  de 
considerer  cette  puissance  du  sentiment  comme  line  illusion,  et 
lui  assigne,  au  contraire,  le  premier  rang  dans  la  nature  hu- 
maine."31  Si  elle  se  contente  de  faire  remarquer  que  "le  princi- 
pal merite  de  la  philosophic  de  Fichte  git  dans  la  force  incroyable 
d 'attention  qu'elle  suppose,"  c'est  parce  que  "le  sentiment  n'y 
a  point  le  rang  qu'il  merite."52  Si  elle  ne  partage  pas  les  con- 
clusions auxquelles  aboutit  le  systeme  de  Schelling, 

c'est  qu'avec  celui-ci  on  croit  parvenir  a  comprendre  l'univers  comme 
l'espace,  en  renversant  toujours  les  barrieres,  en  reculant  les  difficultes 
sans  les  resoudre,  et  Ton  n 'approche  pas  davantage  de  l'infini,  tandis  que 
le  sentiment  seul  nous  le  revele  sans  nous  l'expliquer.53 

Comme  on  peut  s'en  rendre  compte  par  tout  ce  qui  precede, 
pour  Mme.  de  Stael  comme  pour  les  transcendantalistes,  il  existe 
dans  rbomme  une  facule  speciale,  primitive,  innee,  grace  a  la- 
quelle  il  a  conscience,  sans  l'aide  du  raisonnement  et  sans  l'in- 
termediaire  de  1 'experience  sensible,  de  la  verite  religieuse.  Or, 
ni  W.  E.  Channing,  ni  G.  Ripley,  ni  Margaret  Fuller,  n'em- 
prunterent  a  la  metaphysique  de  Kant,  a  l'idealisme  de  Fichte  ou 
de  Jacobi,  au  pantheisme  de  Schelling,  des  arguments  philoso- 
phiques  en  faveur  de  leur  conception  du  sentiment  religieux.  En 
eut-il  ete  ainsi  que  l'editeur  des  Specimens  of  Foreign  Literature, 
qui  n'etait  autre  que  G.  Ripley  lui-meme,  n'eut  point  manque  de 
faire  paraitre,  soit  dans  le  premier,  soit  dans  le  second  volume  de 
cette  collection,  volumes  dont  les  extraits  contiennent  toute  la 
philosophic  des  transcendantalistes,  quelques  fragments  traduits 
des  grands  idealist es  de  TAllemagne. 

En  1838,  nous  ne  saurions  trop  insister  sur  ce  point,  toutes 
les  donnees  essentielles  du  mouvement  de  pensee  que  nous  etu- 


30  De  I'Allemagne,  p.  405. 
si  Id.,  p.  445. 


52  Id.,  p.  460. 

53  Id.,  p.  463. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  419 

dions  avaient  acquis  deja  les  formes  definies  qu'elles  conserve- 
rent  jusque  vers  1845.  Cela  etant,  il  nous  parait  que  nous 
sommes  fonde  a  dire  que  le  spiritualisme  que  professerent  les 
transcendantalistes,  spiritualisme  vers  lequel  les  avaient  con- 
duits peu  a  pen  et  le  liberal isme  de  leur  theologie,  et  les  disposi- 
tions naturelles  de  leur  esprit,  et  la  lecture  qu'ils  firent  des 
ouvrages  de  R.  Price  et  de  Shaftesbury,  de  Hutcheson,  de  Dugald 
Stewart  et  de  Fenelon,54  doit  aux  ecrits  de  Mme.  de  Stael,  avee 
cette  part  d 'inspiration  qu'il  ne  pouvait  manquer  d'en  recevoir, 
quelques-unes  des  formes  que  nous  lui  avons  vu  prendre  a 
l'epoque  meme  de  sa  formation.55 


34  II  est,  certes,  hors  de  doute  que  les  ecrits  de  Fenelon  ont  exerce  sur 
1 'esprit  de  Channing  une  certaine  influence.  "Who  shall  sunder  me  from 
such  men  as  Fenelon  and  Pascal,"  ecrivait  ce  dernier.  "Does  not  their 
spirit  flowing  through  their  writings  and  lives  penetrate  my  soul?  Are 
they  not  a  portion  of  my  being?" 

Si  nous  n  'avons  pas  juge  a  propos  de  consacrer  a  ce  sujet  un  ehapitre 
special,  c 'est  que,  si  le  quietisme  du  "Cygne  de  Cambrai"  avait  bien  pu 
preparer  1 'esprit  de  quelques  unitaires  a  recevoir  avec  faveur  les  formes 
nouvelles  d'un  spiritualisme  que  les  ecrits  de  Mme.  de  Stael,  de  Benjamin 
Constant  et  de  Victor  Cousin,  avaient  rendues  tres  vite  populaires,  il 
aboutissait  neanmoins,  de  par  sa  nature  meme,  non  au  transcendantalisme, 
mais  a  une  sorte  de  mysticisme  extatique  dont  Channing  et  ses  disciples 
surent  toujours  se  preserver. 

Ce  dernier  auteur  ecrivit,  comme  on  sait,  des  remarques  sur  le  caractere 
et  les  ecrits  de  Fenelon  (Channing 's  WorTcs,  pp.  167-215).  Des  extraits 
des  ceuvres  de  Fenelon  parurent  a  Boston  en  1828;  en  1833,  Lydia  Maria 
Child  faisait  paraitre  une  vie  de  Mme.  Guyon  (Lives  of  Mme.  de  Stael. 
Mme.  Roland  and  Mme.  Guyon). 

as  Si  nous  ne  precisons  pas  davantage,  si,  en  particulier,  nous  n  'avons 
pas  juge  a  propos  de  proceder  a  un  rapprochement  de  textes  dont  les 
termes,  plus  ou  moins  identiques,  n'eussent  pas  manque  de  peser  d'un 
grand  poids  sur  notre  argumentation,  c 'est  parce  qu'il  y  a  une  telle  ana- 
bgie,  analogie  qui,  par  endroits,  touche  a  l'identite,  entre  certains  pas- 
sages que  nous  pourrions  extraire  des  ecrits  de  Benjamin  Constant  et  de 
Victor  Cousin,  et  ceux  que  nous  avons  tires  du  livre  De  I'Allemagne, 
qu'ayant  agi  de  la  sorte,  nous  aurions  multiplie  les  difficultes  inherentes 
a  la  nature  de  notre  sujet,  sans  pour  cela  aboutir  a  de  meilleurs  resultats. 

Si  nous  pouvons  bien  dire  avec  M.  Chadwick  que  ce  fut  "with  intense 
delight  that  W.  E.  Channing  made  acquaintance  with  the  master  minds 
in  Germany  through  the  medium,  first  of  Mme.  de  Stael,  and  afterwards 
of  Coleridge;"  si  nous  voulons  bien  admettre  avec  le  meme  auteur  que 
Channing  "recognized  in  them  his  leaders,"  nous  demeurons  nor  moins 
certain,' et  cela  pour  les  raisons  que  nous  avons  exposees,  d'une  part 
dans  le  ehapitre  que  nous  avons  consacre  aux  origine  allemandes  du 
transcendaiitalisme,  d 'autre  part  dans  celui  qui  precede  cos  notes, 
que  le  Fenelon  de  l'Amerique  doit  plus  au  spiritualisme  de  Mine,  de 
Stael  et  de  Benjamin  Constant  qu 'a  la  philosophie  des  idealistes  alle- 
mands.  C 'est,  du  reste,  ce  dont  on  se  rendra  encore  mieux  eompte  dans 
le  ehapitre  que  nous  allons  consacrer  a  Benjamin  Constant. 


420  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

7.  Benjamin  Constant  et  les  transcendantalistes 
Si  dans  Mine,  de  Stael  nous  avons  decouvert  ce  principe 
qu'elle  herita  de  J.  J.  Rousseau  plus  encore  que  des  philosophes 
allemands,  qu  'il  existe  dans  1  'homme  une  f  aculte  speciale,  primi- 
tive, iimee,  grace  a  laquelle  celui-ci  a  conscience  par  intuition  de 
1 'existence  de  Dieu,  de  meme  que  par  les  sens  il  a  conscience  de 
la  matiere,  dans  Benjamin  Constant  nous  trouvons  exposees,  a 
cote  du  principe  que  nous  venons  d'enoncer,  deux  idees  essen- 
tielles  qui  en  sont  comme  les  corollaires  obliges :  celle  de  1  'uni- 
versalite  du  sentiment  religieux  et  celle  d'un  cliangement  pro- 
gressif  et  continuel  des  formes  dans  lesquelles  1 'homme  clierclie 
a  definir  ce  meme  sentiment,  idees  sur  lesquelles  insisterent  cons- 
tamment  les  transcendantalistes,  et  qu'ils  durent  en  partie  aux 
ecrits  de  1  'auteur  qui  va  nous  occuper. 

Pour  Benjamin  Constant  comme  pour  Mine,  de  Stael — ne 
fut-il  pas  comme  elle,  disciple  de  Rousseau — "la  source  de  la 
revelation  est  dans  le  cceur  liumain.  L'homme  n'a  besoin  que  de 
s'ecouter  lui-meme,"  dira  1 'auteur  du  livre  De  la  religion;  "il 
n  'a  besoin  que  d  'ecouter  la  nature,  pour  etre  invinciblement  porte 
a  la  religion.50  Le  sentiment  religieux  est  la  reponse  a  un  cri  de 
l'ame  a  cet  elan  vers  l'inconnu,  vers  l'infini,  que  nul  ne  parvient 
a  dompter  entitlement.  "57  "Penetrez  dans  la  nature  de 
l'homme,"  ecrit  ailleurs  le  meme  auteur,  "et  vous  y  apercevrez, 
si  vous  1  'etudiez  bien,  la  source  de  toutes  les  religions  et  le  germe 
de  toutes  les  modifications  qu'elles  subissent.  "58 
En  Angleterre,  fait  remarquer  B.  Constant, 

la  religion  est  une  chose  dogmatique,  inaccessible  a  toute  discussion  libre 
et  impartiale;  pour  les  philosophes  du  18me  siecle  elle  etait  une  sorte  de 
gendarmerie  destinee  a  garantir  leurs  proprietes;  en  France,  on  est  arrete 
dans  le  besoin  religieux  que  l'on  commence  a  eprouver  par  une  tradition 
d'incredulite,  qui  est  devenue  une  espece  de  dogme  philosophique.  II 
s'agit  done  de  construire  le  nouvel  edifice  des  materiaux  laisses  par 
Fenelon  et  J.  J.  Rousseau. sa 

ss  De  la  religion,  vol.  I,  pp.  16-17. 

57  Id.,  p.  35. 

58  Id.,  p.  140. 

59  Id.,  p.  124. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  421 

Ce  passage  nous  parait  d'une  ires  grande  importance  pour 
le  sujet  qui  nous  occupe.  Remarquons,  tout  d'abord,  qu'il  fut 
ecrit  en  1824;  puis,  que  le  livre  auquel  nous  avons  emprunt£  ces 
quelques  citations  fut,  avec  celui  des  ouvrages  de  Mine,  de  Stael 
que  nous  avons  frequemment  cite,  le  premier  a  repandre  dans  la 
Nouvelle-Angleterre  une  conception  de  la  religion  que  nous  ne 
trouvons  pas  meme,  sous  des  formes  analogues,  dans  Aids  to  Re- 
flection; rappelons  enfin  le  fait  que  "W.  E.  Channing,  a  l'occasion 
de  son  sejour  a  Richmond,  en  1798,  lut  tres  assidument  les  ecrits 
de  Rousseau,  qu'il  traduisit  plus  tard  de  nombreux  extraits  des 
ouvrages  de  Fenelon,  parla  avec  admiration  de  Benjamin  Con- 
stant et  du  Baron  de  Gerando,  et  que  ce  fut  a  l'epoque  ou  ap- 
parurent  en  Amerique  les  ecrits  de  ces  derniers,  qu  'abandonnant, 
l'une  apres  1 'autre,  celles  des  doctrines  orthodoxes  auxquelles 
tenaient  encore  les  Chretiens  unitaires,  que  le  fameux  orateur  de 
Boston  fit  siennes  les  conclusions  du  spiritualisme  de  l'auteur  du 
livre  De  la  religion,  et  Ton  ne  sera  pas  sans  se  convaincre  de  l'im- 
portance  qu'eut  ce  dernier  ouvrage  sur  la  formation  du  trans- 
cendantalisme.   Mais  n'anticipons  pas,  et  revenons  a  notre  sujet. 

Si  Benjamin  Constant  ne  fut  pas  sans  devoir  en  tres  grande 
partie,  soit  a  J.  J.  Rousseau,  soit  a  Mme.  de  Stael,  la  conception 
nouvelle  qu'il  se  fit  de  la  religion — et  nous  avons  d'autant  plus 
le  droit  de  supposer  qu'il  en  fut  bien  ainsi,  que  lorsque  le  pre- 
mier coneut  le  projet  d'ecrire  le  livre  ci-dessus  mentionne,  il  se 
proposait,  non  point  de  defendre  la  religion,  mais,  au  contraire, 
de  la  combattre — il  dut  a  sa  lecture  des  philosophes  allemands  la 
forme  qu'il  donna  aux  corollaires  obliges  de  cette  definition, 
corollaires  qu'il  enonca  dans  les  deux  propositions  suivantes:  la 
revelation  est  de  par  sa  nature  permanente  et  universelle;  1 'ex- 
pression que  revet,  au  cours  des  siecles,  cette  revelation,  change 
indefiniment.  Les  Allemands,  fait  remarquer  l'auteur  qui  nous 
occupe, 

out  le  grand  merite,  ou  le  grand  bonheur,  de  reconnaitre  presque  tous 
une  verite  fondamentale  sans  laquelle  on  ne  decouvrirait  rien  de  vrai,  on 
n'etablirait  rien  de  bon,  cette  verite,  c'est  que  tout  est  progress  if  dana 
l'histoire,  c'est   que  les  formes  sociales,  politiques,  religieuses,  sunt    des 


422  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

seeours  indispensables  a  1 'homme,  mais  doivent  se  modifier  quand  l'homme 
lui-meme  se  modifie.60 

A  l'iustar  de  Benjamin  Constant,  les  transcendantalistes,  par- 
tant  des  memes  principes  que  nous  venous  d'exposer,  s'appli- 
querent  a  refuter  le  dogmatisme  calviniste  d'un  Jonathan  Ed- 
wards et  d'un  John  Tillotson,  le  scepticisme  de  Hume  et  des  phi- 
losophes  francais  du  18me  siecle,  le  rationalisme  deiste  d'un 
Thomas  Payne  et  d'un  "William  Godwin.  Leur  hut  a  tous  est  la 
defense  du  christianisme  contre  des  attaques  qui  lui  viennent  de 
toutes  parts,  mais  d'un  christianisme  sans  dogmes  et  sans  in- 
tolerance et  capable  de  repondre  aux  aspirations  les  plus  intimes 
de  l'ame  humaine,  universel  de  sa  nature,  et  divers  seulement 
dans  les  formes  transitoires  qu'il  est  capable  de  revetir.  Qu'on 
veuille  bien,  maintenant,  se  souvenir  que  les  ecrits  de  Benjamin 
Constant  furent  accueillis  dans  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre,  des  leur 
apparition,  avec  une  sympathie  qui  tenait  de  l'enthousiasme, 
comme  on  peut  s'en  convaincre  en  lisant  avec  soin  les  tres  nom- 
breux  articles  du  Christian  Examiner  et  de  la  Boston  Quarterly 
Review*1  qui  y  font  allusion,  et  Ton  sera  fonde  a  dire  qu'ils  ne 
purent  pas  etre  sans  avoir  exerce  une  certaine  influence  sur  la 
formation  du  mouvement  de  pensee  religieuse  que  nous  etudions. 

C'est  en  182702  que,  pour  la  premiere  fois,  le  Christian  Ex- 
aminer fait  mention  de  facon  tres  precise — et,  certes,  on  n'eut 
guere  pu  s'attendre  a  ce  qu'il  l'eut  fait  plus  tot — de  l'ouvrage 
de  Benjamin  Constant  sur  la  religion.63  Dans  Particle  important 
que  cette  revue  intitule  "The  Spirit  of  the  Age,"  nous  lisons  ce 


go  Be  la  religion,  p.  127. 

61  C'est  dans  ees  deux  revues  qu'avant  1 'apparition  du  Dial,  en  1841, 
les  transcendantalistes  exposerent  et  defendirent  la  nouvelle  doctrine. 

62  II  n  'est  pas  sans  interet  de  faire  remarquer  qu  'en  1825  deja,  c  'est- 
a-dire  l'annee  menie  qui  suivit  celle  de  la  publication  du  premier  volume 
de  l'ouvrage  ci-dessus  mentionne,  1 'introduction  de  eelui-ci  aupres  du 
public  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  etait  accompagnee  de  cette  remarque: 
"Happy  would  it  be  for  the  pupil  of  J.  J.  Eousseau  himself,  if  his  works 
on  religion  were  written  with  the  same  fervor  and  the  same  talent" 
(l'auteur  de  1 'article  fait  ici  allusion  a  un  diseours  politique  prononce 
par  B.  Constant). — Museum  of  Foreign  Literature,  Science,  and  Art  (Phila- 
delphia), VI,  p.  588. 

63  Benjamin  Constant,  De  la  religion,  consideree  dans  sa  source,  ses  formes 
et  ses  developpements. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  423 

passage,  qui  ne  manque  pas  d'etre  fort  interessant  pour  Le  sujel 
qui  nous  occupe:  "Schiller,  Goethe,  Carlyle"— a  beaucoup  plus 
forte  raison  pourrions  ajouter,  les  philosophes  allemands — "are 
still  unfamiliar  in  America ;  .  .  .  more  exciting  are  the  books  of 
Constant  and  Jouffroy."  Reproduisant  ailleurs  ce  que  de  Sis- 
mondi  dit  lui-meme  de  Benjamin  Constant,  l'auteur  du  meme 
article  faissant  allusion  "to  that  fine  work"  (De  la  religion)  "in 
which  he  has  combined  vast  erudition  with  the  most  forcible 
thoughts,  and  has  demonstrated  that  the  religious  sentiment  is  a 
fundamental  law  of  our  nature, '  'G4  il  continue  en  disant : 

Every  one  seems  to  acknowledge  that  all  religions  are  true  in  the  sense 
that  they  are  so  many  languages  by  which  the  feeble  creature  expresses 
his  respect,  his  gratitude,  and  his  love  for  the  Euler  of  the  Universe. 
This  identity  of  the  religious  sentiment  is  the  fundamental  idea  which 
one  of  the  most  eloquent  orators  and  spiritual  writers  of  the  age  has  de- 
veloped in  the  first  book  of  his  work.cs 

En  1833,  dans  un  article  consacre  a  la  renaissance  du  spiri- 
tualisme  en  France,  faisant  allusion  au  livre  de  Benjamin  Cons- 
tant que  nous  avons  cite,  le  Christian  Examiner  publiait  ce  qui 
suit : 

That  such  a  work,  which  is  built  on  the  reality  of  a  spiritual  religion  and 
disinterested  moral,  and  which  assumes  the  truth  of  the  Christian  system 
as  a  philosophical  fact,  should  proceed  from  a  statesman  and  scholar 
whose  influence  was  felt  in  the  cabinets  of  Europe,  would  have  been  pro- 
nounced incredible  at  the  close  of  the  last  century.  ...  In  France  many 

64  Certes,  Benjamin  Constant  et  Mme.  de  Stael  ne  furent  pas  les  seuls 
en  France  a  definir  ainsi  le  sentiment  religieux.  J.  M.  de  Gerando,  on 
particulier,  dont  nous  aurons  a  nous  occuper  dans  la  seconde  partie  de 
notre  travail,  a  cause  de  1 'importance  qu'il  donna,  dans  cette  partie  de 
son  ceuvre  que  les  transcendantalistes  mirent  le  plus  a  contribution,  a 
la  definition  de  la  morale  ainsi  qu'au  fondement  philosophique  sur  lequel 
il  la  fait  reposer;  le  baron  de  Gerando,  disons  nous,  ne  donna  point  du 
sentiment  religieux  une  definition  autre  que  celle  que  nous  avons  signalee, 
soit  dans  le  livre  De  I'Allemagne,  soit  clans  celui  De  la  religion.  Et  les 
unitaires  liberaux  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  ne  mirent  pas  longtemps  a 
le  reconnaitre,  puisqu 'en  1832  l'un  d'entre  eux  ecrivait,  reproduisant 
presque  textuellement  un  passage  de  l'ouvrage  intitule  Du  perfectionne- 
ment  moral  et  de  I1 'education  de  soi-meme:  "religion,  natural  to  man,  be- 
comes necessary  to  him,  and  answers  to  his  natural  wants,  and  to  the 
laws  of  those  faculties  which  he  has  received  from  nature.  From  our 
cradle  we  have  a  predisposition  for  it,  and  attain  it  by  the  simple  develop- 
ment of  our  constitution"   (Christian  Examiner,  IX,  p.  74). 

85  Christian  Examiner,  IV,  pp.  3-4. 


424  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

of  the  most  popular  writings  of  the  day  breathed  a  pure  religious  spirit. 
For  several  ages,  religion  had  been  under  the  domination  of  the  priest- 
hood, burdened  with  a  multiplicity  of  forms  and  observances,  contrary 
to  its  real  nature  .  .  .  This  corrupted  system  of  religion  was  too  much 
opposed  to  human  nature  to  withstand  the  progress  of  society  in  knowl- 
edge and  civilization;  .  .  .  men  interrogate  their  destinies  and  their 
faculties;  .  .  .  they  saw  that  religion  does  not  consist  in  observances  and 
forms,  but  in  feeling  and  principles.66 

En  1834,  nous  lisons: 

Eeligion  must  act  with  energy  upon  the  soul,  carry  it  forward  in  the 
career  of  intelligence  and  moral  perfection  without  which  man  cannot 
fulfill  his  destiny;  such  a  religion  has  its  deep  roots  in  the  heart,  must 
be  drawn  from  the  depths  of  his  soul;  .  .  .  and  many  of  these  wants 
[fait  remarquer  en  terminant  l'auteur  de  cet  article]  are  probably  stated 
with  precision  for  the  first  time.67 

Benjamin  Constant,  fait  remarquer  un  autre  correspondant, 

never  fails  to  enlighten  the  mind,  to  warm  the  heart,  and  invigorate  the 
religious  sentiment;  his  works  increase  our  love  for  mankind,  inspire  us 
with  new  zeal  and  confidence  in  the  march  towards  perfection.6** 

All  beings  created  or  uncreate,  animate  or  inanimate,  rational  or  ir- 
rational, have  their  laws;   ...  we  do  not  know  the  origin  of  these  laws, 

w  Christian  Examiner,  X.  pp.  273-274-275. 

e~  Christian  Examiner,  X,  p.  283.  II  est  d'autant  plus  indispensable  de 
citer  ces  passages  qu'ils  sont  partie  d'une  refutation  du  rationalisme  du 
18me  siecle.  "Not  content  with  attacking  Christianity,"  dit  l'auteur  de 
Particle,  "the  rationalists,  mistaking  the  true  character  of  the  human 
soul,  and  passing  a  skeptical  judgment,  according  to  the  laws  of  material 
nature,  on  that  which  can  be  understood  only  by  an  appeal  to  the  in- 
ward consciousness,  they  soon  made  war  on  the  eternal  truths,  which 
alone  place  man  in  harmony  with  himself,  and  they  reduced  man  to  the 
rank  of  an  intellectual  brute.  They  substituted  the  idea  of  Nature  for 
that  of  God,  physical  organization  for  the  soul,  the  connection  of  material 
causes  and  effects  for  liberty,  and  the  suggestion  of  personal  interest  for 
virtue. ' ' 

Ce  dernier  passage,  ainsi  que  les  citations  auxquelles  il  se  rattache, 
prouvent  de  faqon  evidente  que  les  transcendantalistes  ne  furent  pas  sans 
trouver  dans  Benjamin  Constant  plusieurs  des  arguments  auxquels  ils 
eurent  recours  dans  leur  refutation  du  seeptieisme  materialiste  que  les 
rationalistes  etayaient  du  sensualisme  de  Locke. 

Nous  avons  une  autre  preuve  de  ce  fait  important,  que  les  unitaires 
liberaux  trouverent  avant  tout  chez  les  spiritualistes  francais  leurs  raisons 
d'en  finir  avec  les  conceptions  traditionnelles  du  christianisme,  que  l'un 
d'entre  eux  ecrivit  ce  qui  suit:  "The  example  of  France  convinces  us  of 
the  desperate  folly  of  insisting  on  any  points  of  faith,  except  the  clear 
and  essential  principles  of  Christianity.  The  springs  of  the  old  machine 
are  now  worn  out.  Thev  cannot  be  restored"  (Christian  Examiner,  X,  p. 
296). 

es  Id.,  XVII.  p.  63. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  425 

but  by  one  of  these  laws  man  is  led  to  seek  some  object  to  venerate,  to 
adore.  .  .  .  From  Benjamin  Constant's  theory  we  may  derive  much  to 
soften  our  indignation  at  the  past,  and  to  inspire  us  with  hope  for  the 
future;  .  .  .  Christianity,  indestructible  as  to  its  foundation,  but  ex- 
ceedingly flexible  as  to  its  forms,  is  wedded  to  no  form,  but  can  unite 
to  all  forms,  and  exist  in  all  stages  of  civilization;  it  is  religious  senti- 
ment itself  detached  from  all  forms. 69 

Eeligion  and  morality  [lisons-nous  plus  loin]  rest  not  on  the  under- 
standing, nor  in  logical  deductions,  but  on  an  interior  sentiment,  recogni- 
tion found  in  the  distinction  between  the  head  and  the  heart,  the  mind 
and  the  soul,  the  understanding  and  the  affections.  Internal  phenomena 
cannot  be  classed  with  the  operations  of  the  understanding.  .  .  .  These 
belong  to  human  nature,  passions,  emotions,  sentiments,  affections,  of 
which  the  understanding,  so  called,  can  take  no  account;  ...  we  feel 
what  we  feel,  not  because  we  are  convinced  ourselves  by  logical  deduc- 
tion that  we  ought  to  feel.  Eeasouing  may  come  afterwards  and  justify 
the  feeling;  but  it  did  not  precede  it.70 


Si  nous  nous  sommes  permis  de  transcrire  des  passages  aussi 
longs,  c'est  que,  accompagnant  une  introduction,  aupres  du 
public,  des  oeuvres  de  Constant,  ils  contiennent  une  refutation 
des  lieux  communs  de  la  philosophic  sensualiste  et  de  la  theologie 
traditionnelle,  montrant  ainsi,  une  fois  de  plus,  que  ceux  des 
unitaires  liberaux  que  leurs  adversaires  qualifierent  de  transcen- 
dantalistes  ne  furent  pas  sans  emprunter  au  livre  intitule  De  la 
religion  plusieurs  des  arguments  destines  a  servir  la  cause  qui 
leur  etait  devenue  chere. 

II  nous  serait  facile  de  multiplier  les  citations  capables  de 
fortifier  les  conclusions  que  nous  avons  adoptees  sur  le  point  en 
litige.  Nous  pourrions  les  extraire,  soit  de  celle  des  revues 
americaines  que  nous  avons  mises  le  plus  a  contribution  dans  les 
pages  qui  precedent,  soit  du  New  England  Magazine,71  soit  de 


69  Christian  Examiner,  XVII,  pp.  68-69. 

™  Id.,  p.  70. 

"i  Nous  transcrivons  ici  un  des  passages  les  plus  signincatifs  de  cette 
revue  sur  le  sujet  qui  nous  occupe:  "This  new  faith" — l'auteur  de 
1 'article  fait  allusion  a  la  nouvelle  conception  de  la  religion  qu'ont 
adoptee  les  transcendantalistes — "was  declared  to  be  ineradieably  im- 
planted in  the  human  heart,  and  to  be  discoverable  in  all  religions,  under 
the  darkest  symbols  and  in  the  meanest  shrines;  .  .  .  this  belief  is  to 
be  a  portion  of  the  mind  itself,  it  needs  no  proof,  but  is  a  fact  of  con 
sciousness"   (New  England  Magazine,  V,  p.  168). 


426  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology      [Vol.  4 

1' American  Quarterly  Register,72  soit,  en  particulier,  de  la  Boston 
Quarterly  Review,  editee  par  Orestes  A.  Brownson.  Comme  elles 
ne  font  que  reproduire,  en  des  termes  tres  souvent  identiques  a 
ceux  que  nous  avons  transcrits,  les  quelques  citations  auxquelles 
nous  nous  sommes  arrete,  on  nous  saura  gre  de  ne  les  avoir  pas 
jointes  au  present  chapitre.73 

Du  contenu  des  passages  que  nous  avons  cites,  non  moins  que 
des  remarques  dont  nous  les  avons  accompagnes  et  surtout  des 
observations  qui  les  out  precedes,  il  result e  que  les  transcen- 
dantalistes — on  voudra  bien  nous  pardonner  d 'avoir  a  repeter  ici 
ce  que  nous  avons  eu  1 'occasion  d'exprimer  ailleurs — doivent  a 
Benjamin  Constant,  sinon  cette  conception  de  la  religion  et  du 
christianisme  en  vertu  de  laquelle  rhomme  est  de  par  sa  nature 
meme  un  etre  religieux,  conception  qu'ils  avaient  decouverte 
deja  dans  les  ouvrages  de  Mine,  de  Stael,  du  moins  ces  deux  idees 
fondamentales  auxquelles  elle  conduisait,  savoir:  la  revelation, 
qui  n'est  autre  que  la  religion  elle-meme,  est  permanente  et  uni- 
verselle,  tandis  que  les  formes  qu'elle  revet  au  cours  des  temps, 
chez  les  differents  peuples,  changent  indefiniment. 

Les  transcendantalistes   ayant   admis   que   le   sentiment   re- 


"-  Voir  en  particulier  v.  9,  p.  22. 

7 s  Si  nous  n  'avons  point  fait  une  mention  speciale  de  l'importante 
introduction  dont  George  Ripley  fit  preceder  les  extraits  qu  'il  publia  des 
Melanges  de  Litterature  et  de  Politique,  par  Benjamin  Constant,  dans  le 
second  volume  de  ses  Specimens  of  Foreign  Standard  Literature  (1838), 
c'est  que  cette  introduction,  malgre  les  quelques  allusions  qu'elle  fait, 
par  endroits,  aux  idees  religieuses  de  l'auteur  que  nous  venons  de  nom- 
mer,  interesse  avant  tout  ses  idees  philosophiques  et  sociales.  On  con- 
sultera  toutefois  avec  avantage  pour  le  sujet  qui  nous  occupe  v.  2,  pp. 
276,  280. 

Nous  eussions  pu  egalement  extraire  des  oeuvres  de  Brownson  et  de 
Parker  de  tres  nombreux  passages  dont  les  termes,  par  endroits,  se  con- 
fondent  avec  ceux  qu'on  peut  lire  dans  plusieurs  ouvrages  des  spiritua- 
listes  franc,ais.  Nous  sommes  porte  a  croire  avec  l'auteur  d'un  certain 
article  du  Christum  Examiner  (voir  v.  32,  p.  398)  que  Theodore  Parker, 
qui  s'etait  propose  lui-meme  d'ecrire  une  histoire  des  religions,  doit  a, 
B.  Constant  beaucoup  plus  qu'il  veut  bien  dire.  "We  are  a  little  sur- 
prised," ecrit  l'auteur  de  1 'article  auquel  nous  faisons  allusion,  "to  find 
in  a  note  (Discourse  of  Matters  Pertaining  to  Eeligion,  Boston,  1842,  p. 
118)  so  slighting  a  notice  of  this  writer  (B.  Constant) ;  it  is  there  said 
'  that  he  treats  this  subject  with  a  superficialty  unusual  even  with  him ' 
.  .  .  This  is  a  very  ungracious  return,"  continue  notre  ecrivain,  "to  one 
who  first  distinctly  and  fully  brought  out  the  great  idea  which  lies  at 
the  foundation  of  the  present  work,  running  through  every  part,  and 
without  which  it  could  not  have  been  written." 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  427 

ligieux  n'est  autre  que  1 'intuition  grace  a  laquelle  l'homme  prend 
conscience  de  sa  destinee  et  des  moyens  qui  lui  permettent  de 
l'accomplir,  ils  firent  de  la  religion  l'unique  fondement  de  la 
morale.  Quelle  definition  philosophique  donnerent-ils  de  celle-ci  ? 
Quelle  part  d 'influence  faut-il  attribuer  a  1  'eclectisme  francais 
dans  1  'elaboration  de  cette  definition  ?  Telles  sont  les  deux  ques- 
tions auxquelles  maintenant  nous  avons  a,  repondre. 


DEUXIEME    PARTIE 

DU  TRANSCENDANTALISME  GONSIDERE  SOUS 
SON  ASPECT   PHILOSOPHIQUE 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalismi  431 


CHAPITEE  I 

DEFINITION  DU  TRANSCBNDANTALISME  CONSIDERE 

SOUS  SON  ASPECT  PHILOSOPHIQUE 

1.  Remarques  prelim ixaires 

Si  au  point  de  vue  religieux  le  transcendantalisme  fnt  une  re- 
action contre  la  theologie  calviniste  d'une  part,  contre  le  for- 
malisme  et  les  tendances  rationalistes  de  certains  unitaires 
d 'autre  part,  il  fut,  au  point  de  vue  philosophique,  une  reaction 
contre  le  sensualisme  de  Locke  et  contre  certains  postulats  de  la 
philosophic  dite  du  sens  commun,  de  Pecole  ecossaise. 

Dans  son  fameux  Essay  on  the  Human  Understanding,  Locke 
s'etait  applique  a  demontrer  la  non-existence  des  idees  innees,  et 
a  faire  deriver  celles-ci  de  Paction  exercee  sur  l'esprit  par  la 
sensation,  Pame  n'etant  ainsi  au  moment  de  sa  naissance  que 
feuille  blanche  sur  laquelle  1 'experience  sensible  vient  marquer, 
sous  forme  d 'images  ou  de  representations  conscientes  que  nous 
appelons  idees,  les  diverses  impressions  que  le  monde  exterieur  a 
produites  sur  nos  sens.  II  n  'est  pas  difficile  de  concevoir  a  quelles 
fins  conduit  semblable  philosophie.  Si  l'idee  est  le  produit  de  la 
perception,  celle-ci  resultant  de  Paction  de  la  matiere  sur  nos 
sens,  il  s'en  suit  logiquement  que  l'idee  que  nous  nous  faisons  du 
bien  et  du  mal,  celle  que  nous  nous  faisons  du  juste  et  de  Pin  juste, 
depend  uniquement  de  Paction  exercee  sur  nos  sens,  par  les  objets 
qu  'ils  percoivent. 

Chose  interessante  a  noter,  le  sensualisme  de  Locke  n'eut 
d 'autre  effet  chez  les  continuateurs  immediats  de  Poeuvre  de  ce 
dernier,  chez  un  Hume  par  exemple,  que  de  favoriser  un  seepti- 
cisme  aimable  dont  Porthodoxie  calviniste  s'accommoda  fort  bien, 
et  que  des  habitudes  de  piete,  qui  n'allaient  jamais  sans  Pob- 
servance  stricte  d'une  certaine  morale  conventionnelle,  em- 
pecherent  de  descendre  des  regions  de  1  'esprit  a  celles  du  coeur  et 
de  la  conscience.    Si  ce  meme  scepticisme  degenera  plus  tard  en 


432  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology      [Vol.  4 

Angleterre,  comme  partout  ailleurs,  en  materialisme,  ce  fut, 
comme  on  sait,  grace  a  la  diffusion  dans  ee  pays  des  ecrits,  dits 
philosophiques,  que  la  France  de  la  fin  du  18me  siecle  mit  en 
circulation. 

En  France,  un  Voltaire  et  un  Diderot,  un  d'Holbach  et  un 
Lamettrie,  n 'avaient  pas  mis  longtemps  a  tirer  habilement  les 
consequences  extremes  d'une  philosophic  que  les  ouvrages  de 
Hume,  en  particulier,  avaient  rendue  populaire.  Puisque  la  per- 
ception derive  de  la  sensation,  dirent-ils,  l'idee  n'est  autre  chose 
que  le  produit  de  la  matiere,  et  le  cerveau,  fera  remarquer  l'un 
d'eux,  secrete  de  la  pensee  de  meme  que  le  foie  secrete  de  la  bile. 
La  morale  a  tirer  d  'une  telle  philosophic  ne  pouvait  consister  que 
dans  la  recherche  des  moyens  les  plus  surs  de  s 'assurer  ici-bas 
tout  le  bien-etre  qu'une  precieuse  sante  et  certains  avantages 
materiels  peuvent  seuls  assurer.  On  ne  pouvait  manquer,  des 
lors,  de  confondre  le  bonheur  avec  la  jouissance,  et  de  ne  voir 
dans  les  sens  que  les  instruments  dociles  et  indispensables  de 
cette  jouissance.  Et  c'est  ainsi  que  ce  meme  sensualisme,  auquel 
les  calvinistes  avaient  emprunte  des  arguments  pour  leur  defense 
de  la  doctrine  du  peche  originel,  et  dont  les  theistes  anglais  avaient 
trouve  moyen  d'etayer  ce  qu'il  leur  restait  de  convictions  re- 
ligieuses,  aboutissait,  vers  la  fin  du  18me  siecle,  au  materialisme 
du  Systeme  de  la  nature. 

Comme  tous  les  extremes  auxquels  1'homme  est  porte  ap- 
pellent  une  reaction,  on  pouvait  bien  s'attendre  a  ce  que  celle-ci 
ne  tardat  pas  a  se  produire.  Quand  apres  les  bouleversements 
politiques  et  sociaux  causes  par  la  Revolution  francaise  le  calme 
fut  revenu,  on  ne  fut  pas  sans  s'apercevoir  que  si  le  scepticisme 
et  le  materialisme  avaient  bien  pu  un  instant  tromper  la  vigilance 
de  la  conscience  aux  abois,  expulser  de  l'ame  humaine  toute 
croyance  religieuse  et  confondre  le  bonheur  qui  n'est  que  dans  la 
vertu  avec  la  jouissance  dont  le  royaume  est  ailleurs,  ils  n 'avaient 
mis  a  l'ame  rien  qui  eut  remplace  la  foi  qui  consolait,  ils  n 'avaient 
resolu  aucune  des  enigmes  que  suppose  le  mystere  de  la  vie ;  on 
ne  fut  pas  sans  voir  avec  stupeur  que  ce  monde  de  delices  promis 
par  les  prophetes  du  culte  de  la  raison,  s'etait  fait  tout  a  coup 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  433 

une  sorte  de  chaos  ou  faillirent  sombrer,  avec  une  religion  vieille 
de  dix-liuit  siecles,  une  civilisation  qu'on  avait  erue  sup&rieure  a 
toutes  celles  qui  l'avaient  precedee. 

Aucun  des  grands  problemes  que  la  seule  idee  de  la  destinee 
de  l'liomnie  propose  a  l'intelligence  n 'avait  ete  resolu ;  au  fond 
de  l'ame  humaine  subsistaient  les  memes  besoins,  les  memes  as- 
pirations. Et  si  Ton  ne  pouvait  revenir,  ni  au  deisme  purement 
intellectuel  de  Hume  et  de  Voltaire,  ni  au  materialisme  de  Lamet- 
trie  et  d'Helvetius,  on  ne  voulait  pas  davantage  d'une  religion 
toute  de  dogmes  surannes,  non  plus  que  d'une  morale  toute  de 
punitions  pour  les  offenses  commises.  On  sentait  bien  que  la 
verite  religieuse,  si  elle  est  quelque  part,  ne  saurait  se  trouver 
que  dans  le  christianisme.  Le  probleme  a  resoudre  etait  done 
celui-ci :  comment  concilier  les  donnees  de  l'enseignement  biblique, 
d'une  part  avec  les  exigences  de  la  raison,  d 'autre  part  avec  les 
plus  intimes  besoins  de  l'ame  humaine?  En  d'autres  termes, 
comment  reconcilier  la  religion  et  la  science,  la  foi  et  la  raison ; 
sur  quel  fondement  philosophique  etablir  la  nouvelle  croyance? 

Nous  avons  vu  comment  les  transcendantalistes  s'entendirent 
pour  combattre  la  doctrine  de  1 'inspiration  pleiniere  des  Ecri- 
tures,  s'appuyant,  pour  ce  faire,  sur  le  temoignage  de  la  critique 
historique ;  comment  ils  en  appelerent,  en  matiere  de  religion,  de 
l'autorite  tout  exterieure  d'un  texte  ou  d'une  eglise,  d'une  con- 
fession de  foi  ou  de  quelque  concile,  a,  celle,  tout  interieure,  de  la 
conscience  intime.  II  n'est  pas  difficile  d'imaginer  a  quelles  fins 
devaient  conduire  de  semblables  premisses,  a  quelle  philosophie  on 
allait  demander  de  definir  la  nouvelle  doctrine. 

2.  Definition  du  transcendantalisme  considere  sous  son 

aspect  philosophique 
II  importe  tout  d'abord  de  faire  remarquer — et  nous  ne 
saurions  trop  insister  sur  ce  point — que  les  chefs  du  mouvement 
dont  nous  nous  occupons  (a  1 'exception,  toutefois,  d 'Orestes  A. 
Brownson,  qui  sut  etre  a  ses  heures  un  habile  logicien)  ne  furent 
point  des  philosophes  dans  le  sens  qu'on  est  convenu  d'attacher 
a  ce  mot.    A  proprement  parler,  ils  n'ont  point  de  theorie  <!<•  La 


434  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

connaissance,  car  on  ne  saurait  attacher  ce  nom  aux  quelques 
vagues  notions  qu'ils  en  ont  empruntees  au  neo-platonisme.  Ils 
ne  se  fatiguerent  point  a  1 'elaboration  d'une  grandiose  synthese 
destinee  a,  resoudre  le  probleme  de  l'univers.  Mais  s'ils  n'ont 
point  de  metaphysique,  point  de  systeme  dont  on  puisse  observer 
et  etudier  les  differentes  parties,  ils  ont  ime  doctrine  qui  tient 
tout  a  la  fois  de  l'idealisme  allemand,  de  la  philosophic  ecossaise 
et  de  l'eclectisme  francais,  auxquels  elle  emprunta  quelques-unes 
de  ses  formes  les  plus  essentielles.  La  chose  n'a  rien  en  soi  qui 
doive  nous  surprendre,  puisque  les  transcendantalistes,  a  1'instar 
des  philosophes  de  1  'ecole  de  Kant,  de  Dugald  Stewart  et  de  Vic- 
tor Cousin,  s'appliquerent  a  combattre  les  idees  surannees  de  la 
theologie  orthodoxe  traditionnelle  en  meme  temps  que  celles  du 
sensualisme,  tout  en  servant  la  cause  d'un  christianisme  spiri- 
tualiste  d 'inspiration,  et  debarrasse  des  dogmes  qui  en  avaient 
compromis  le  caractere  historique  authentique. 

Ceux  des  unitaires  liberaux  qui  se  firent  les  apotres  de  la  doc- 
trine que  nous  etudions  ne  se  proposerent  jamais  qu'un  seul  et 
meme  but :  defendre  le  christianisme  par  des  moyens  nouveaux, 
lui  assurer  des  fondements  plus  stables  que  ceux  que  lui  avaient 
pretes  le  calvinisme  d'un  Jonathan  EdAvards  et  le  sensualisme  de 
Essay  on  the  Human  Understanding  de  Locke.  Et  pour  cette 
raison  ils  n  'emprunteront  a  la  philosophic  d'autres  arguments 
que  ceux  qui  serviront  la  cause  de  la  religion.1 

Comme  nous  avons  eu  l'occasion  de  l'exposer  ailleurs,  les 
transcendantalistes  etablirent  d'abord  que  l'homme,  ne  re- 
ligieux,  a  de  par  sa  nature  conscience  de  l'existence  de  Dieu,  ad- 
mettant  ainsi  implicitement  qu'il  y  a  en  lui  quelque  chose  d'in- 
definissable,  principe  ou  faculte,  instinct  ou  intuition,  qui  le  rend 
en  quelque  sorte  participant  de  la  nature  divine.  Les  calvinistes 
disaient :  l'homme,  concu  et  ne  dans  le  peche,  est  incapable 
d  'aucun  bien ;  leurs  adversaires  disaient  au  contraire :  parce  que 


1  Cette  intervention  constante  de  la  religion  dans  toutes  les  rontro- 
verses  et  dans  tous  les  ecrits  des  transcendantalistes  nous  oblige  eonstam- 
ment  a  revenir  sur  nos  pas,  a  rattacher  toujours  a  leur  point  de  depart 
les  divers  arguments  auxquels  ils  eurent  recours  pour  justifier,  et  eela  au 
nom  meme  de  l'evangile  chretien  qu'ils  entendaient  i^recher  et  vivre  in- 
tegralement,  les  consequences  extremes  de  leur  liberalisme. 


1916]  Girard :  Du  transcendantahsnu  \..:> 

ne  religieux,  l'homme  est  de  par  sa  nature  un  etre  moral  et  bon ; 
s'il  a,  par  intuition,  conscience  cle  la  verite  religieuse,  il  a,  grace 
a  cette  meme  faculte,  conscience  de  la  verite  morale.  11  possede 
en  lui-meme  le  guide  stir,  infaillible,  capable  de  l'instruire  dea 
chemins  qu  'il  f aut  prendre  pour  arriver  au  bien ;  qu  'il  prete  con- 
stamment  line  oreille  attentive  a  la  voix  de  sa  conscience  et  il 
sera  capable  de  distinguer  le  bien  du  mal,  le  juste  de  Tin  juste. 

Une  telle  pbilosophie  n'a  rien;  en  apparence  du  moins,  de 
tres  "  transcendantal, "  et  ne  semble  exprimer  qu'une  verite  de 
sens  commun.  Elle  revet  toutefois  un  autre  caractere  a  1 'esprit 
de  quiconque  veut  bien  se  reporter  au  temps  ou  elle  fut  defendue 
avec  obstination  par  tous  les  partisans  du  transcendantalisme. 
II  s'agissait  alors  de  detruire  trois  erreurs,  qui  etaient  si  cou- 
rantes,  si  bien  accreditees,  que  nombreux  etaient  ceux  qui  s'en 
accommodaient  comme  de  verites  indiscutables,  et  s'etonnaient 
grandement  que  d'aucuns  eussent  l'audace  de  les  discuter.  La 
premiere  etait  celle  des  calvinistes,  et  consistait,  nous  venons  de 
le  voir,  dans  leur  doctrine  du  peche  originel,  avec  son  corollaire 
oblige,  la  predestination ;  la  seconde  etait  celle  a  laquelle  con- 
duissaient  les  consequences  extremes  du  sensualisme.  L'idee 
derivant  d'une  perception  que  la  sensation  seule  rend  ait  pos- 
sible et  effective,  il  s'ensuivait  logiquement  que  la  conception 
que  l'homme  se  fait  du  bien  et  du  mal,  du  juste  et  de  Tin  juste, 
dependait  uniquement  de  l'impression  produite  sur  nos  sens  par 
le  monde  exterieur.  Nous  avons  dit  plus  haut  le  parti  qu'on  sut 
tirer,  en  France  et  ailleurs,  d'un  tel  raisonnement. 

La  troisieme  erreur  a  laquelle  s'opposait  l'idee  philosophique 
qu'avaient  de  la  morale  les  transcendantalistes,  erreur  d'autant 
plus  dangereuse  qu*elle  etait  de  beaucoup  la  plus  accreditee, 
n 'etait  autre  que  celle  de  l'utilitarisme.  Cette  derniere  doctrine 
n 'etait  en  somme  qu'un  acheminement  vers  le  transcendan- 
talisme. Celle-la,  en  effet,  comme  celui-ci,  s'etant  liberee  des 
entraves  dans  lesquelles  le  calvinisme  retenait  les  esprit  s,  e1 
n'ayant  que  faire  des  subtilites  du  systeme  philosophique  de 
Locke,  se  cherchait  les  moyens  de  sauvegarder,  tout  a  la  fois,  les 
interets  du  christianisme  et  ceux  de  la  raison. 


436  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

C  'est  dans  le  choix  de  ces  moyens  que  les  uns  se  separerent  des 
autres,  les  transcendantalistes  voulant  qu  'on  en  appelat,  en  toutes 
choses  concernant  la  morale  et  la  religion,  au  temoignage  in- 
faillible  des  intuitions  de  la  conscience  et  du  cceur,  tandis  que 
les  partisans  de  l'utilitarisme,  jugeant  qu'en  telles  matieres  on 
pouvait  s'en  remettre  a  celui  de  la  raison,  firent  du  sens  commun 
la  regie  de  leurs  actions. 

Quiconque  lit  avec  soin  les  tres  nombreux  articles  que  les 
ministres  unitaires  consacrerent  au  traitement  de  la  morale,  ceux, 
en  particulier,  que  Ripley  et  Brownson  firent  paraitre,  entre  1830 
et  1837,  dans  le  Christian  Examiner,  n'est  pas  sans  se  rendre 
compte  de  rimportance  considerable  que  les  uns  et  les  autres 
attacherent  de  bonne  heure  a  une  doctrine  qui  avait,  de  leur 
temps,  acquis  si  peu  gain  de  cause  qu  'elle  rencontra  partout  une 
vive  opposition,  et  suscita  des  controverses  sans  fin.  Channing, 
dans  le  sermon  qu'il  fit  sur  The  Moral  Argument  Against  Cal- 
vinism, Emerson,  dans  le  fameux  essai  intitule  The  Transit  n- 
dentalist,  Theodore  Parker,  dans  ses  Discourses  on  the  Philosophy 
of  Religion,  tons  les  trois  ayant  recours  aux  memos  arguments, 
s'entendent  a  defendre  la  doctrine  que  nous  avons  indiquee. 

Comme  nous  1  'avons  marque  au  cours  de  ce  chapitre,  les  trans- 
cendantalistes s'opposant,  d'une  part,  au  dogme  traditionnel  du 
peche  originel,  d 'autre  part  a  celui  de  la  predestination,  etablis- 
sent  que  l'homme  est  ne  moral  et  libre,  capable  de  se  choisir  les 
voies  qui  le  conduisent  vers  le  but  de  sa  destinee,  grace  a  un  fait 
de  conscience  anterieur  a  toute  operation  de  l'entendement  et  in- 
dependant  de  toute  experience  sensible,  grace  a  1 'intuition  qui 
lui  permet  toujours  de  distinguer  le  bien  du  mal,  et  a  la  liberte 
morale  a  laquelle  il  doit  de  pouvoir  obeir  a  la  loi  de  son  perfec- 
tionnement. 

Presentant  dans  les  termes  qu'on  vient  de  lire  un  expose  suc- 
cinct de  la  pliilosophie  que  professerent  les  spiritualistes  de  la 
Nouvelle-Angleterre,  nous  sommes  bien  certain  de  n  'avoir  point 
trahi  la  pensee  de  ces  derniers.  Nous  en  donnerons  une  preuve, 
en  rapportant   ici   quelques-uns  des  passages  les  plus   caracte- 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  1..7 

ristiques  dans  lesquels  prirent  forme  les  definitions  qu'ils  don- 
nerent  des  facultes  morales  et  de  leur  fonctionnement. 

No  man  [ecrit  Channing]  can  deny  that  an  inward  voir.-  ealla  him 
more  or  less  distinctly  to  revere  and  exercise  impartial  justice  and  uni- 
versal good  will.  This  disinterested  principle  in  human  nature,  we  call 
sometimes  conscience,  sometimes  the  moral  sense  or  faculty;  ...  it  is 
a  real  principle  in  each  of  us,  and  it  is  the  supreme  power  within  us,  to 
be  cultivated  above  all  others,  for  on  its  culture  the  ri- lit  development 
of  others  depend. - 

All  virtue  [dit  ailleurs  le  meme  auteur]  has  its  foundation  in  the 
moral  nature  of  man,  that  is  in  conscience,  or  his  sense  of  duty  and  in 
the  power  of  forming  his  temper  and  life  according  to  conscience.  We 
believe  that  these  moral  faculties  are  the  grounds  of  responsibility,  and 
the  highest  distinctions  of  human  nature,  and  that  no  act  is  praise- 
worthy any  farther  than  it  springs  from  their  exertion. 3 

This  moral  principle  [continue  Channing]  is  the  supreme  law  in  man, 
the  law  of  the  universe;  ...  to  all  there  is  the  same  supreme  law,  the 
same  supreme  good.  This  goodness  is  seen  by  us  intuitively  to  be  con- 
fined to  no  place,  to  no  time,  to  be  the  growth  of  no  nation,  of  no  world, 
but  to  be  universal,  eternal  and  immutable,  absolute,  and  worthy  of 
highest  veneration  and  love  by  all  spirits  for  ever. 

Human  nature  is  indeed  at  present  in  a  very  imperfect  stage  of  its 
development.  But  1  do  not  therefore  distrust  that  perfection  is  its 
end;  ...  to  him  who  has  entered  an  interminable  path,  with  impulses 
which  are  carrying  him  onward  to  perfection,  of  what  importance  is  it 
where  he  first  plants  his  step?4 

George  Ripley,  a  son  tour,  s  'exprime  comme  suit : 
There  is  a  class  of  persons  who  desire  a  reform  in  the  prevailing  philos- 
ophy of  the  day.  These  are  called  transcendentalists  because  they  be- 
lieve in  an  order  of  truths  which  transcends  the  sphere  of  the  external 
senses.  They  maintain  that  the  truth  of  religion  does  not  depend  on 
tradition,  nor  historical  facts,  but  has  an  unerring  witness  in  the  soul. 
There  is  a  light,  they  believe,  which  enlighteneth  every  man  that  cometh 
into  the  world;  there  is  a  faculty  in  all  the  most  degraded,  the  most 
ignorant,  the  most  obscure — to  perceive  spiritual  truth  when  distinctly 
presented;  and  the  ultimate  appeal  in  all  moral  questions  is  not  to  a  jury 
of  scholars,  a  hierarchy  of  divines,  or  the  prescriptions  of  a  creed,  but  to 
the  common  sense  of  the  human  race.5 


2  The  Works  of  William  E.  Channing,  pp.  8,  9. 

a  Id.,  p.  380. 

1  Id.,  pp.  964-965. 

SO.  B.  Frothingham,  George  Ripley,  p.  85.  Les  derniers  mots  du  pas 
sage  que  nous  venons  de  citer  ne  manquent  pas  d 'interet.  lis  trahissent, 
en  effet,  chez  Kipley,  sa  preoccupation  de  rattacher,  sur  un  point,  a  la 
philosophic  ecossaise,  le  trauscendantalisme. 


438  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

Theodore  Parker,  dans  ses  fameux  discours  sur  la  philosophie 
de  la  religion,0  tiendra  le  meme  langage.  "God  has  given  us  a 
moral  faculty,"  dit-il  dans  un  sermon  intitule  "On  the  Coinci- 
dence of  Christianity  with  the  Higher  Nature  of  Man,"  "the 
conscience  which  is  able  to  perceive  the  moral  law  directly  and 
immediately,  by  intuitive  perception  thereof  without  experience 
of  the  external  consequences  of  keeping  or  violating  it,  and  more 
perfectly  than  such  experience  can  ever  disclose  it."7 

A  l'instar  de  Channing,  tirant  les  conclusions  qu'appellent 
de  telles  premisses,  il  conclut  par  ces  mots :  ' '  Man,  though  finite, 
is  indefinitely  progressive,  continually  unfolding  the  qualities  of 
his  nature.  His  history,  therefore,  is  not  the  whole  book  of 
memory,  but  only  the  portion  thereof  which  has  been  opened  and 
publicly  read."8 

Ces  quelqnes  citations,  malgre  leur  caractere  necessairement 
fragmentaire,  nous  ont  instruits  suffisamment  de  ce  que  furent  la 
nature  et  les  traits  essentiels  de  la  philosophie  des  transcendan- 
talistes,  pour  que  nous  puissions  maintenant,  prolongeant  les 
lignes  du  plan  que  nous  nous  sommes  propose,  proceder  a  1  'etude 
des  origines  francaises  de  la  doctrine  que  nous  venons  de  definir. 


s  Discourses  on  the  Philosophy  of  Beligion  Addressed  to  Doubters  who 
wish  to  Believe,  1836.  II  s'agit  des  discours  auxquels  Andrews  Norton 
repondit  en  publiant  The  Latest  Form  of  Infidelity,  sermon  qu'en  1838  il 
avait  adresse  aux  anciens  eleves  de  la  faculte  de  theologie  du  college  de 
Cambridge. 

"  Theodore  Parker,  View  of  Religion,  p.  142. 

s  Meme  ouv.,  p.  143. 


1916]  Girard :  Du  transcendantalisme  439 


CHAPITRE  II 

DES  ORIGINES  FRANCAISES  DU 
TRANSCEDANTALISME  CONSIDERE 
SOUS  SON  ASPECT  PHILOSOPHIQUE 

Les  memes  difficulties  que  nous  avons  vues  surgir  lorsqu'il 
s'agit  pour  nous  d'aborder  l'etude  des  origines  franca ises  du 
transcendantalisme  considere  sous  son  aspect  religieux,  se  pre- 
sentent  de  nouveau,  et  presque  sous  les  memes  formes,  an  moment 
ou  nous  nous  appretons  a  rechercher  ce  que  les  idealistes  de  la 
Nouvelle-Angleterre  doivent  a  la  philosophic  des  eclectiques 
francais.  Ceux-ci  ayant  enseigne  une  doctrine,  a  peu  de  chose 
pres,  semblable  a  celle  qu'avant  eux  avaient  exposee,  d'une  part, 
les  philosophes  allemands,  d 'autre  part  les  representants  de 
l'ecole  ecossaise,  comment  determiner  ce  que  les  unitaires  liberaux 
doivent  aux  uns  plutot  qu'aux  autres?  Pour  repondre  a  cette 
question  de  facon  satisfaisante,  nous  etablirons  d'abord  brieve- 
ment,  quelle  part  d 'influence  on  peut  attribuer,  soit  a  Emmanuel 
Kant  et  a  Dugald  Stewart,  soit  a  leurs  disciples  respectifs,  sur 
la  formation  du  transcendantalisme. 

1.    LE  IDEALISTES  ALLEMANDS  ET  LA  DOCTRINE  PHILOSOPHIQUE  DES 
TRANSCENDANTALISTES 

Tout  ce  que  nous  avons  dit  des  origines  allemandes  de  ce 
dernier  mouvement  trouverait  place  ici,  si  nous  n'avions  pas  du 
parler  de  ces  origines  dans  le  chapitre  qui  precede  celui  que  nous 
ecrivons.  Ayant  cite  a  l'appui  de  notre  these  le  temoignage 
meme  d'un  Channing  et  d'un  George  Ripley,  celui  d'un  Orestes 
A.  Brownson  et  de  Margaret  Fuller,  nous  avons  demontre  que 
les  transcendantalistes  durent  a  lmterpretation  qu'en  avaienl 
donnee  Mme.  de  Stael,  Coleridge  et  Carlyle,  ce  qu'ils  connais- 
saient  de  la  philosophic  allemande.  Nous  avons  explique,  en 
outre,  qu'il  importait  de  ne  pas  exagerer — on  ne  l'a  fait  que  trop 
souvent— l'influence  qu'a  pu  exercer  sur  le  mouvement  qui  nous 


440  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

occupe  cette  interpretation.  Pour  dormer  plus  de  poids  aux 
conclusions  auxquelles  nous  nous  sorames  arrete  dans  cette  partie 
de  notre  travail  que  nous  avons  rappelee,  nous  transcrirons  ici 
un  certain  nombre  de  passages  bien  faits  pour  nous  prouver  que 
la  philosophic  de  Kant  et  de  ses  disciples  n'eut  point  en 
Amerique,  durant  le  premier  tiers  du  19me  sieele,  tout  le  succes 
facile  que  d'aucuns  ont  suppose. 

Si  les  trois  interpretes  de  la  pensee  allemande  que  nous  avons 
cites  ont  ete  les  premiers  a  faire  connaitre  a  lAngleterre  et  aux 
Etats-Unis  quelques-uns  des  ouvrages  des  grands  penseurs 
d'outre-Bhin,  ils  ne  furent  pas  les  seuls  a  s'en  occuper.  D'im- 
portantes  revues,  telles  Blackwood's  Magazine,  qu'on  ne  lisait 
pas  moins  a  Boston  et  a  New  York  qu'a  Londres  et  a  Edimbourg, 
et  le  Christian  Examiner,  que  nous  avons  plus  d'une  fois  mis 
a  contribution,  consacrerent  de  bonne  heure  d'assez  nombreux 
articles  a  une  philosophic  dont  presque  tout  le  monde  parlait  en 
des  termes  pen  faits  pour  en  recommander  1 'adoption,  on  seule- 
mi'iit  la  lecture. 

Nous  lisons,  par  exemple,  dans  un  compte  rendu  que  la  pre- 
miere de  ces  revues  faisait  paraitre  de  quelques  ouvrages  de  Kant, 
le  passage  suivant,  qui  ne  manque  point  d'interet  au  point  de  vue 
special  qui  nous  retient  ici:  "Either  it  is  nonsense,"  dit  hauteur 
de  l'article,  faisant  allusion  a  la  dite  traduction,  "in  a  degree 
possible  only  to  utter  and  determined  ignorance  of  the  German 
language;  or  it  is  so  close  a  translation  of  the  ipsissima  verba  of 
Kant,  as  to  offer  no  assistance  to  an  uninitiated  student,  to  say 
nothing  of  the  barbarous  effect  produced  by  a  German  structure 
of  sentence,  and  a  terminology  altogether  new."  "On  some  fu- 
ture day,"  dit  aussi  le  meme  auteur — on  voudra  bien  remarquer 
que  ceci  etait  ecrit  en  1830 — "it  is  very  possible  that  I  may 
trouble  you  with  a  sort  of  a  short  exposition  of  the  Transcendental 
Philosophy,  so  framed  that,  without  foregoing  one  iota  of  techni- 
cal rigour,  it  shall  convey,  for  the  first  time,  to  merely  English 
ears,  a  real  account  of  what  that  philosophy  is. ' n 


i  Blackicood's  Magazine,  XXVIII,  p.  245.     Une  telle  declaration,  faite 
par  une  des  revues  les  plus  accreditees  aupres  du  public  lettre,  non  seule 


1916]  Girard :  Du  transcendantalisme  in 

L'ecrivain  responsable  des  lignes  qu'on  vienl   de  lire  n'esl 

pas  seul  a  se  plaindre  des  difficulty  insurmontables  qui  attendenl 
quiconque  s'enhardit  a  vouloir  expliquer  la  philosophie  de  I'au- 
teur  de  la  Critique  de  la  raison  pure:  "We  believe  it  impossible 
to  understand  fully  the  design  of  Kant  and  his  followers,"  ainsi 
s'exprimait,  en  1833,  un  des  collaborateurs  du  Christ  inn  Ex- 
aminer, "without  being  endowed  to  a  certain  extent  with  the 
same  powers  of  abstraction  and  synthetical  generalization  which 
the  German  philosophers  possess  in  so  eminent  a  degree.  In 
order  to  become  fully  master  of  their  meaning,  one  must  be  aide 
to  find  it  himself.  The  work  of  the  transcendental  philosophers 
may  be  translated  word  for  word,  but  still  it  will  be  impossible 
to  get  a  clear  idea  of  their  philosophy,  unless  we  raise  ourselves 
at  once  to  a  transcendent  point  of  view. '  '2 

Comme  on  pent  s'en  rendre  compte  par  les  deux  citations  que 
nous  venons  de  produire,  ce  qu'on  reproche  surtout  a  la  phi- 
losophie de  l'ecole  de  Kant,  c'est  d'etre  obscure  et  d'offrir  a 
quiconque  tente  de  l'interpreter  en  la  traduisant,  des  difficultes 
quasi  insurmontables.3    C'est  bien  aussi  dans  ce  sens  qu'en  1835 


ment  de  l'Angleterre,  mais  aussi  de  1  Amerique,  prouve  bien,  une  fois  de 
plus,  que  cette  partie  du  livre  De  I'Allemagne  qui  contenait  un  resume 
succinct  des  systemes  de  Kant,  de  Fichte  et  de  Schelling,  non  plus  que 
ceux  des  ecrits  de  l'auteur  de  Aids  to  Beflection,  qui  en  exposerent  une 
vague  interpretation,  n  'exercerent  sur  la  formation  du  transcendantalisme 
toute  1 'influence  que  supposent  les  historiens  de  la  pensee  philosophique 
en  Amerique,  MM.  Riley  et  Goddard  en  partieulier. 

II  importe  de  se  souvenir  que  durant  tout  le  premier  tiers  du  19me 
siecle  on  ne  lisait  et  n  'appreciait  guere  de  ce  cote  de  1  Atlantique  que 
des  ouvrages  dont  la  presse  de  Londres  et  d'Edimbourg  avait  parle*  avec 
eloges,  et  cela  etait  vrai  non  seulement  des  livres  et  des  traites  parus  en 
Angleterre,  mais  aussi,  nous  pourrions  menie  ajouter,  et  surtout,  lorsqu'il 
s'agissait  de  ceux  qui  avaient  ete  ecrits  et  publies  en  Amerique.  Par 
consequent,  lorsque  nous  constatons  que  la  revue  tres  importante  qu  'etait 
le  Blackwood's  Magazine  ne  contient  avant  1840  aucun  article  sur  la 
philosophie  transcendantale  de  Fichte;  quand,  de  plus,  l'Sditeur  (rune 
autre  revue  anglaise  eerit  en  1835,  "that  there  are  hardly  six  English 
men  to  be  found  who  are  sufficiently  well  acquainted  with  the  works  of 
Kant,  in  the  German,  to  succeed  in  translating  them  into  English"  (Cf. 
Quarterly  Christian  Spectator,  VIII,  p.  25),  nous  sommes  en  droit  de  dire 
que  si  l'idealisme  allemand  eut  sur  la  formation  du  transcendantalisme 
une  influence  quelconque,  il  ne  peut  le  devoir  qu'en  tres  faible  partie  a 
Coleridge  et  a  Carlyle. 

2  Christian  Examiner,  XIV,  p.  119. 

3  C'est    ce    dont    ne    s 'etait    que    trop    bien    rendu    eompte    un    certain 
"clergyman"   ecossais,   du   nom   de   George   Cleig,   qui   avait   ete   charge 


442  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

s'exprimait  un  des  collaborateurs  du  Quarterly  Christian  Specta- 
tor: "We  believe  that  the  genius  of  the  English  language," 
ainsi  s'exprime  l'auteur  de  1 'article  auquel  nous  empruntons  ces 
remarques,  "and  the  peculiar  modes  of  thought  which  char- 
acterize the  philosophy  of  Kant,  could  not  be  united  with  each 
other  without  great  sacrifices."4  Et  le  raeme  auteur  ajoute  un 
peu  plus  loin:  "we  have  been  repeatedly  told  that  it  is  impos- 
sible to  translate  it  [the  German  philosophy]  into  English.  If  it 
is  so,  we  ought  not  to  complain  of  the  failure  of  any  attempt  to 
teach  us  its  mysteries. '  '5 

En  1838,  la  North  American  Review  faisait  suivre  des  obser- 
vations suivantes,  un  compte  rendu  qu'elle  donnait  d'une  traduc- 
tion en  anglais  de  la  Critique  de  la  raison  pure,  traduction  parue 
a  Londres  la  meme  annee :  "We  cannot  believe  that  it  is  possible 
to  translate  the  works  of  Kant  in  a  way  that  will  make  them  in- 
telligible to  the  English  reader,  however  conversant  he  may  be 
with  ordinary  metaphysical  speculations,  and  little  apt  to  be  dis- 
couraged by  the  first  sight  of  abstruse  doctrines,  and  uncouth 
phraseology;  ...  a  general  exposition  of  his  system  may  be  at- 
tempted Avith  some  chance  of  success,  but  a  literal  version  would 
be  probably  ten  times  more  enigmatical  than  the  original. '  'G 

Nous  avons  dit  ailleurs  que  W.  E.  Channing  ne  s'etait  point 
fait  faute  de  dire  qu'il  ne  connaissait  de  la  philosophic  allemande, 


d'eerire  pour  la  reimpression  americaine  de  la  3me  edition  de  I'Encyclo- 
pedia  Britannica  un  article  sur  Kant  et  sa  philosophie.  L'auteur  de  eet 
article  nous  informe  lui-meme  qu'il  eut  recours  pour  la  composition  de  ce 
dernier,  "aux  lumieres  d 'un  Francais,  illustre  maitre  a  la  fois  des  deux 
langues,  en  meme  temps  que  metaphysicien  profond,  lequel  lui  a  fourni 
1 'expose  de  la  philosophie  de  Kant,  qu'il  reproduit  en  l'aceompagnant  de 
ses  remarques  personnelles"   (Van  Becclaere,  p.  79). 

*  Quarterly  Christian  Spectator,  VIII,  p.  89. 

s  Meme  revue,  VII,  p.  127.  C'est  bien  dans  le  meme  sens  qu'en  1831 
s'exprimait  le  Christian  Examiner  (I,  p.  376):  "We  have  made  up  our 
opinions, ' '  lisons-nous,  ' '  from  wretched  translations  of  extravagant 
authors,  or  from  incoherent  patches  and  portions  of  great  systems,  which 
give  no  better  idea  of  the  magnificent  whole,  than  the  fool's  brick  of  his 
palace." 

6  North  American  Review,  XLIX,  pp.  46-47.  "No  doubt,''  ecrivait 
quelques  annees  plus  tard  Theodore  Parker,  "a  ready  reader  would  go 
over  the  98  volumes  of  Sir  W.  Scott  in  less  time  than  he  could  plod 
through  and  master  the  single  obstinate  book  of  Kant's  Kritik  [■>ie] 
of  the  Pure  Season." 


1916]  Girard:  Jhi  transcendantalisme  -\\:\ 

que  ce  qiril  en  avait  appris  en  lisant  le  livre  De  VAlh  magne,  e1 
nous  savons  ce  qu'il  faut  penser  de  l'influence  qu'a  exercee  parmi 
les  transeendantalistes  Interpretation  fragmentaiiv  que  Mme. 
de  Stael  a  faite  des  systemes  de  Kantet  de  Fichte,  de  Jacobi  et 
de  Schelling,  dans  l'ouvrage  que  nous  venons  de  rappeler. 

Orestes  A.  Brownson,  qui  avant  1842,  c'est-a-dire  avant  sa 
conversion  au  catholicisme,  fut  mi  transcendantaliste  convaincu, 
ecrivait  en  1838:  "So  far  as  our  knowledge  extends"  (et  certes, 
nul  dans  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  n'etait  mieux  place  que  le  fonda- 
teur  de  la  Boston  Quarterly  Review  pour  parler  de  telles  choses 
avec  autorite)  "there  is  no  overwheening  fondness  for  German 
literature  and  philosophy.  The  genius  of  our  country  is  for 
Eclecticism."7 

George  Ripley,  enfin,  dont  le  temoignage  n'est  pas  sans  peser 
d'un  grand  poids  sur  le  point  en  litige,  puisqu'il  fut,  avec  W.  E. 
Channing,  l'ame  meme  du  transcendantalisme,  apres  avoir  paye 
son  tribut  de  louanges  a  la  profondeur  de  pensee  des  philosophes 
allemands  ainsi  qu'a  la  conscience  qu'ils  apportent  dans  toutes 
leurs  recherches,  expose  comnie  suit  les  raisons  pour  lesquelles 
leurs  systemes  ne  trouvent  point  un  accueil  empresse  aupres  du 
public  cultive  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre :  ' '  Our  national  taste, ' ' 
dit  l'auteur  que  nous  venons  de  citer — "as  far  as  it  is  formed 
may  certainly  be  said  to  repudiate  all  mystery  and  concealment. 
We  have  even  less  patience  with  obscurity  of  style  than  with 
shallowness  of  thought.  The  first  condition  of  popularity  among 
us,  is  the  clear  expression  of  distinct  thought.  For  this  reason, 
the  German  philosophers,  in  their  native  costume,  will  never  be- 
come extensively  popular  in  this  country.  The  fruits  of  their 
inquiries  will  one  day  pass  into  general  circulation  among  us; 
but  not  till  they  have  been  refined  and  clarified  by  successive 
operations  in  different  minds."  Et  Ripley  continue  en  disant: 
"We  must  start  with  the  freer,  more  popular,  more  concrete  and 
more  finished  product  of  the  great  French  writers  who  have  been 
formed  in  the  German  school. '  '8 


"  Brownson 's  Works,  T,  p.  3. 

s  Specimens  of  Foreign  Standard  Literature,  I,  pp.  33-35. 


444  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

Ce  passage,  a  lui  seul,  nous  est  une  precieuse  indication.  En 
effet,  tout  en  corroborant  les  divers  temoignages  que  nous  avons 
empruntes  aux  different s  auteurs  que  nous  avons  cites,  il  prouve 
avec  evidence  qu 'avant  1840  la  philosophic  allemande  n 'avait  eu 
gain  de  cause,  aux  Etats-Unis,  que  dans  la  mesure  ou  les  eclec- 
tiques  franeais  en  avaient  rendu  possible  et  acceptable  Interpre- 
tation.° 

Avant  de  chercher,  toutefois,  a  determiner  avec  plus  de  pre- 
cision ce  que  le  transcendantalisme  doit  a  l'eclectisme  franeais, 
il  convient  de  dire  quelque  chose  de  ce  qu  'il  avait  d  'abord  trouve 
dans  la  philosophic  ecossaise. 


2.  L.V  PHILOSOPH1E  ECOSSAISE  ET  LE  TRANSCENDANTALISME 

Faire  autre  chose  ici  que  rappeler  en  grands  traits  ce  que  fut 
rinfluence  de  la  philosophic  ecossaise  sur  la  formation  du  trans- 
cendantalisme, serait,  d'une  part,  sortir  de  notre  sujet,  d 'autre 
part,  repeter  ce  que  nous  avons  eu  l'occasion  d'exposer  dans  notre 
introduction.  Si  nous  ne  pouvons  nous  dispenser  de  toucher  en 
passant  a  cette  phase  du  probleme  qui  nous  occupe,  e'est  qu 'il 
importe  de  n'aborder  l'etude  des  origines  franchises  du  trans- 
cendantalisme philosophique  qu'apres  en  avoir  elimine  tout  ce 
qui  serait  de  nature  a  en  compromettre  les  conclusions. 

La  philosophie  ecossaise,  comme  nous  l'avions  fait  remarquer, 
etait  apparue,  en  Amerique,  a  l'occasion  de  l'arrivee  a  la  presi- 
dence  du  college  de  Princeton  de  John  Witherspoon.  L'interet 
qu'on  avait  commence  a  porter  a  une  doctrine  qui  sapait  les 
fondements  du  sensualisme  de  Locke  et  mettait  a  neant  les  rai- 
sonnements  specieux  sur  lesquels  le  scepticisme  de  Hume  avait 
cru   pruvoir   s'appuyer,   ne   tarda   pas  a   s'affaiblir,   grace   aux 


9  Qu'on  veuille  bien  nous  entendre:  nous  ne  pretentions  point  que  la 
philosophie  allemande  n 'ait  exerce  aucune  influence  sur  la  pensee  philo- 
sophique en  Amerique  avant  1840.  Nous  ne  sommes  pas  sans  savoir 
l'interet  que  lui  porterent  les  esprits  cultives  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre, 
et  tout  ce  que  fit  H.  F.  Hedge  pour  1  V  aecrediter.  Nous  tenons,  toutefois, 
a  insister  sur  le  fait  que  1 'influence  directe  qu 'elle  exerca  sur  le  liheralisme 
unitaire  se  tit  sentir,  uon  point  tant  dans  le  sens  du  mouvement  de  pensee 
relig-ieuse  et  imilosophique  que  nous  etudions,  que  dans  celui  de  l'unitarisme 
rationaliste  qui  devait  lui  survivre. 


1916]  Girard :  Du  transcendantalisme  \\r, 

bouleversements  politiques  et  sociaux  que,  sur  deux  continents, 
avaient  produits  les  revolutions  d'Amirique  et  de  Prance. 
Lorsque  le  caline  fut  revenu,  on  ne  mit  pas  longtemps  a  reprendre 
des  discussions  dont  Tissue  immediate  la  plus  importante  fut 
l'organisation  en  corps  constitue,  en  1825,  des  eglises  unitaires. 
Desormais,  l'esprit  de  tolerance  et  de  libre  examen,  qui  dega" 
s'etait  fait  jour  a  travers  toute  la  seconde  moitie  du  18me  siecle, 
favorisera  l'accueil  que  vers  1828  on  fera  pour  la  seconde  fois 
a  la  philosophic  de  Reid,  de  Brown  et  de  Stewart.10 

S'il  est  vrai  que  la  premiere  ne  fut  pas  sans  avoir  une  in- 
fluence marquee  sur  ce  qu'on  peut  appeler  le  rationalisms  uni- 
taire,11  la  seconde  ne  fut  pas  sans  prefer  son  appui  a  la  formation 
d'une  doctrine  qui,  avant  d'aboutir  an  transcendantalisme,  e1 
cela  apres  avoir  depasse  les  lieux  communs  de  la  philosophic  du 
bon  sens  dont  s'etaient  contentes  Thomas  Brown  et  ses  nombreux 
adeptes,  avail  trouve  dans  l'enseignement  du  fameux  professeur 
d'Edimbourg  tous  les  elements  d'une  ethique  et  d'une  psycholo- 
gie  dont  elle  empruntera  les  formes  arretees,  soit  a  J.  M.  de 
Gerando,  soit  a  Victor  Cousin. 

II  serait,  certes,  oiseux  de  vouloir  a  tout  prix  determiner 
quelle  part  d  'influence  il  faut  attribuer  a,  la  diffusion  des  ecrits 
de  Reid  et  de  Stewart  dans  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  sur  la  forma- 
tion du  transcendantalisme,  quelle  est  celle  qu'il  faut  faire  a  1 'in- 
terpretation que  donna  de  la  philosophic  ecossaise  l'auteur  des 
Fragments  Philosophiques,  en  particulier.  Nous  sommes  toute- 
fois  incline  a  penser  que  cette  interpretation  contribua,  plus  en- 


io  L'interet  qu'on  porta,  en  particulier,  a  la  philosophic  de  Dugald 
Stewart  est  atteste  par  la  publication,  en  Amerique,  entre  1827  et  1  *_'•», 
des  ouvrages  suivants  du  philosophe  ecossais: 

Elements  of  the  Philosophy  of  the  Human  Mind,  3  vols.,  Philadelphia, 
1827. 

The  Philosophy  of  the  Active  and  Moral  Powers  of  Man,  Boston,  1829. 

Philosophy  of  the  Human  Mind,  2  vols.,  Cambridge,  1829.  (Voir  pour 
plus  de  details  sur  la  philosophie  et  les  ouvrages  de  Reid  et  de  Stewart, 
ce  que  nous  en  avons  dit  dans  notre  introduction  ainsi  que  dans  le  ehapi- 
tre  dont  nous  1 'avons  fait  suivre). 

ii  Ce  que  nous  disons  ici  est  d'autant  plus  certain  que  le  "text-book" 
prepare  par  Levi  Hedge,  professeur  de  philosophie  a  1 'university  de  Ear 
vard,  text-book  qui  parut  pour  la  premiere  fois  en  1827,  et  qu 'adopterenl 
la  plupart  des  colleges  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre,  n'etait  autre  qu'un 
abrege  des  Conferences  Bhetoriques  de  Thomas  Brown. 


446  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology      [Vol.  4 

core  que  les  ouvrages  memes  de  ces  deux  philosophes,  a  faire  con- 
naitre  et  appreeier  la  doctrine  de  ces  derniers,  et  cela  non  seule- 
ment  grace  a  la  publication,  entre  1826  et  1828,  des  principaux 
ouvrages  de  Victor  Cousin,  mais  aussi  grace  a  celle,  en  1830,  du 
livre  de  Gerando  intitule  Du  perf  ectionnement  moral  et  de  V edu- 
cation de  soi-meme,  en  1834,  des  Elements  of  Psychology,12  par 
C.  S.  Henry ;  grace  a  la  publication,  enfin,  en  1838,  des  Specimens 
of  Foreign  Standard  Literature,  qui  contiennent,  avec  un  expose 
complet  de  la  philosophie  de  Cousin,  une  traduction  des  Esquisses 
de  la  philosophie  morale,  par  Theodore  Jouffroy. 

Comme  durant  toute  cette  periode  de  l'histoire  de  la  pensee 
philosophique  en  Amerique  oil  nous  sommes  arrete,  c'est-a-dire, 
durant  presque  tout  le  premier  tiers  du  19me  siecle,  le  public 
anglo-saxon  ne  portait  pas  encore  un  bien  vif  interet  aux  ecrits 
de  Stewart — et  nous  avons  de  la  chose  plus  d'une  preuve  con- 
vaincante13 ;  comme  nous  voyons,  d 'autre  part,  cet  interet 
renaitre  et  grandir  tout  a  coup  apres  la  publication  des  ouvrages 
que  nous  avons  mentionnes  ci-dessus;  enfin,  et  Ton  voudra  bien 
attacher  a  ce  fait  1 'importance  qu'il  merite,  comme  George  Rip- 
ley juge  a  propos  d'introduire  dans  les  deux  premiers  volumes 
de  la  collection  qu'il  edita  sous  le  nom  que  l'on  sait,  non  point 
des  extraits  de  tel  ou  tel  traite  sorti  de  la  plume  meme  de  Thomas 


12  Cet  ouvrage  n'etait  autre  qu'une  traduction  des  conferences  faites 
par  V.  Cousin  sur  le  sensualisme  de  Locke  et  sa  refutation. 

is  En  1829,  dans  le  meme  numero  de  la  North  American  Beviexo  qui  con- 
tient  un  compte  rendu  tres  etendu  des  ouvrages  que  Victor  Cousin  avait 
fait  paraitre  entre  1822  et  1829,  nous  lisons  ce  qui  suit:  "Such  is  the 
universal  indifference  on  the  subject  [moral  philosophy]  in  the  mother 
country,  that  in  quarters  where  we  have  the  right  to  look  for  opinions  of 
some  authority,  the  terms  of  the  question  are  evidently  not  understood. 
Moral  sense,  as  the  Scottish  School  understands  it,  gives  us  a  glimpse  of 
the  truth,  but  has  not  vet  been  stated  with  sufficient  power  and  pre- 
cision" (XXIX,  p.  121). 

Un  peu  plus  tard,  en  1831,  la  meme  revue  dit,  en  parlant  de  1 'ouvrage 
que  Stewart  avait  intitule  The  Philosophy  of  the  Active  and  Moral  Powers 
of  Man:  "it  does  not  appear  to  us  of  a  nature  to  supply  the  deficiency 
to  which  we  have  alluded"  (XXXI,  p.  225). 

L 'ouvrage  de  Stewart  que  deja  vers  la  fin  du  18me  siecle  on  avait  mis 
fortement  a  contribution  pour  le  traite  de  morale  employe  comme  "text- 
book" dans  plusieurs  colleges  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre,  est  celui  qui 
parut  pour  la  premiere  fois,  en  1793,  sous  le  titre  de  Complete  Treatise  on 
Metaphysics.    Philosophy  of  the  Mind  on  Ethics  and  on  Politics. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisnn  447 

Keid  011  de  Dugald  Stewart,14  eomme  on  aurait  pu  s'y  attendre, 
mais  l'expose  que  fit  de  la  philosophic  du  premier  Theodore 
Jouffroy,  et  la  traduction  que  fit  egalement  Jouffroy  des  Outlines 
of  Moral  Philosophy  du  celebre  professeur  d'Edimbourg,  nous 
avons,  nous  semble-t-il,  le  droit  de  conclure  en  disant  que  si  la 
philosophic  ecossaise,  a  l'instar  de  la  philosophic  allemande,  a 
pu  contribuer  a  la  formation  du  transcendantalisme,  elle  le  doil 
en  partie  aux  formes  bien  arretees  que  lui  preterent,  dans  L 'in- 
terpretation qu'ils  en  donnerent  au  moment  meme  de  son  ap- 
parition, les  eclectiques  francais.  C'est,  du  reste,  ce  dont  nous 
convaincra,  de  facon  encore  plus  complete,  le  rapprochement  que 
nous  allons  etablir  entre  J.  M.  de  Gerando,  Victor  Cousin,  Theo- 
dore Jouffroy,  et  les  transcendantalistes. 


3.  J.  M.  de  Gerando  et  les  transcendantalistes 

Pour  bien  comprendre  la  nature  de  l'interet  qu'on  porta  de 
tres  bonne  heure,  dans  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre,  aux  ecrits  ainsi 
qu'a  la  philosophie  de  J.  M.  de  Gerando,  il  faut  avoir  present  a 
l'esprit  ce  que  nous  disions  lorsque,  abordant  le  probleme  que 
suggere  le  rapprochement  de  la  philosophie  ecossaise  du  trans- 
cendantalisme, nous  faisions  remarquer  que  ceux  des  unitaires 
liberaux  que  ne  satisfaisait  pas  la  doctrine  ecossaise  dite  du  sens 
commun,  s'en  furent  a  la  recherche  d'une  philosophie  capable  de 
sauvegarder    les    interets    du    christianisme,    de    satisfaire    aux 


1-*  Si  certains  elements  de  la  philosophie  ecossaise  exercerent  sur  le 
liberalisme  des  eglises  unitaires  une  influence  marquee  dans  le  sons  <lu 
rationalisme,  et  cela  en  particulier  apres  1840,  ce  fut  grace  a  la  diffusion 
dans  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  des  ouvrages  de  James  Martineau  et  de  H. 
P.  Tappan.  L'ouvrage  que  le  premier  fit  paraitre  en  volume,  en  1843, 
sous  le  titre  de  Rationale  of  Beligious  Inquiry,  avail  ete  Pobjet  de  vivea 
controverses,  engagees  deja  en  1836,  par  le  Christ, mi  Examiner;  les  ou- 
vrages du  second  qui  contribuerent  le  plus  a  accrediter  en  Am^rique  ce 
qu'on  etait  convenu  d 'appeler  la  philosophie  ecossaise  et  cela  duns  le 
sens  que  nous  avons  indique,  sont  les  suivants:  Review  of  Edward's  In- 
quiry into  the  Freedom  of  the  Will  (1839),  The  Doctrine  of  the  Jl  ill  D< 
termined  by  an  Appeal  to  Consciousness  (1840);  The  Doctrine  of  the  Will 
Applied  to  Moral  Agency  and  Responsibility  (1841),  et  pent-otic  davantage 
encore,  ses  Elements  of  Logic  (1844),  dont  une  edition  rSvisee  el  aug 
mentee  parut  en  1858. 


448  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

exigences  de  la  raison  et  de  repondre,  en  meme  temps,  aux  besoins 
les  plus  intimes  d  l'ame  humaine. 

Ne  pouvant  retourner  au  calvinisme,  dont  la  critique  his- 
torique  avait  abattu  presque  tous  les  appuis  sur  lesquels,  depuis 
pres  de  trois  siecles,  il  etait  etabli ;  ne  voulant  plus  d  'une  phi- 
losophic dont  s'etaient  etayes  le  scepticisme  de  Hume  et  le  mate- 
rialisme  auquel  il  avait  conduit ;  n  'ayant  pu  accueillir  qu  'avec 
certaines  reserves  la  morale,  en  somme  tout  utilitaire,  a  laquelle 
aboutissait  en  droite  ligne  la  doctrine  de  Thomas  Brown,  par 
des  voies  obscures  plus  ou  moins  detournees  celles  de  Tliomas 
Keid  et  de  Dugald  Stewart,  les  transcendantalistes  accueillirent 
avec  un  empressement  qui  tenait  de  l'enthousiasme  des  ouvrages 
dont  le  principal  merite  etait  dans  la  preoccupation  de  leur 
auteur  de  fonder  sur  le  sentiment  religieux,  c'est-a-dire  sur  ce 
qu'il  y  a  de  plus  excellent  dans  la  nature  humaine,  une  morale 
dont  le  but  etait  de  cultiver  avec  un  soin  egal,  le  coeur,  l'esprit 
et  le  caractere. 

Le  premier  des  ecrits  de  J.  M.  de  Gerando  qui  attira  l'atten- 
tion  du  public  lettre  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre,  et  cela  grace 
surtout  aux  termes  elogieux  dans  lesquels  en  parlerent  Stewart 
et  Tennemann,  au  moment  meme  ou  il  fut  publie,  fut  son 
Histoire  comparee  des  systemes  de  philosophies  L'ouvrage  eut 
d'autant  plus  de  succes,  de  ce  cote  de  l'Atlantique,  qu'on  n'y 
possedait  point  encore,  au  moment  ou  il  parut,  meme  en  seconde 
edition,  e'est-a-dire  en  1822,  la  traduction  que  fit  Arthur  John- 
son de  celui  que  Tennemann  composa  sur  le  meme  sujet,1,J  et  que 
les  dissertations  que  Stewart  ecrivit  pour  YEelinburejh  Encyclo- 
pedia n'etaient  qu'un  abrege,  un  abrege  meme  tres  succinct,  de 
l'histoire  de  la  philosophic. 

II  est  done  plus  que  probable  que  ce  fut  a  l'ouvrage  de  J.  M. 


is  Histoire  comparee  des  systemes  de  philosophic  consideres  relativement 
aux  principes  des  connaissances  humaines.  Par  M.  de  Gerando,  membre  de 
l'lnstitut,  4  vols.,  Paris,  1822  (premiere  edition,  1804);  ouvrage  traduit  en 
allemand  des  son  apparition  par  W.  G.  Tennemann. 

i6  Geschichte  der  Pliilosophie,  bey  Willhelm  Gottlief  Tennemann,  11 
vols.,  1798-1819.  Cet  ouvrage,  plusieurs  fois  edite,  fut  traduit  en  anglais, 
en  1832,  par  Arthur  Johnson. — Le  meme  auteur  avait  fait  paraitre,  de 
1792  a  1794,  son  System  der  Platonischen  Philosophic. 


1916]  Girard:  Bit  transcendantalisme  449 

de  Gerando,  quand  ce  ne  fut  pas  au  livre  de  Mine,  de  Stael,  inti- 
tule Be  VAllemagne,  que  les  transcendantalistes  durenl  Les  pre- 
mieres connaissances  qu'ils  acquirent  de  la  philosophie  alleraande. 
L'expose  tres  etendu  et  tres  elair  qu'avait  fait  des  systemes  de 
Kant  et  des  premiers  de  ses  disciples  un  ecrivain  qui  avail  une 
eonnaissance  approfondie  de  la  langiie  allemande,  ne  pouvait  pas 
manquer  de  les  recommander  mieux  a  1'attention  de  ses  leeteurs 
que  Interpretation  vague  et  toujours  incomplete  qu'en  avail 
donnee  l'auteur  de  Aids  to  Reflection. 

II  n'y  a  point  de  doute  non  plus  que  I'Histoire  compark  des 
systemes  de  philosophie  a  contribue,  pour  sa  part,  a  la  renais- 
sance en  Amerique,  avant  1830,  des  etudes  de  la  philosophie 
grecque.17  L'expose  etendu  et  tres  clair  que  contenail  eel 
ouvrage  du  neo-platonisme  etait  bien  propre  a  recommander  cette 
derniere  doctrine — n'oublions  pas  que  le  transcendantalisme  did 
beaucoup  au  neo-platonisme — aupres  de  leeteurs  qui  reproche- 
rent  constamment  aux  idealistes  allemands  l'obscurite  de  leurs 
systemes.  Nous  en  sommes  d'autant  plus  assure  qu'en  1824, 
comme  le  faisait  remarquer  la  North  American  Review,18  ni 
1  'Angleterre,  ni  1 'Amerique,  ne  possedaient  aucune  histoire  pro- 
prement  dite  de  la  philosophie. 

L'interet  considerable  qu'on  avait  porte,  dans  la  Nouvelle- 
Angleterre,  a  VHistoire  comparei  des  systemes  de  philosophie,  au 
moment  meme  de  son  apparition ;  la  reputation  de  philosophe 
distingue  que  s'y  etait  acquise  J.  M.  de  Gerando,  et  cela,  comme 


i"  L'interet  qu'ou  portait  a  cette  epoque  aux  choses  de  la  philosophie 
grecque  est  atteste  egaleinent  par  1 'apparition,  en  1824,  d'une  traduc- 
tion de  1 'ouvrage  de  Fenelon  sur  les  philosophies  de  la  Grece  antique, 
traduction  qui  jjarut  sous  le  titre  de  Lives  of  the  Ancient  Philosophers, 
translated  from  the  French  of  Fenelon  by  the  Rev.  John  McCorniack,  M.A. 
First  American  edition,  Washington,  D.  C,  1824. 

is  "The  History  of  Philosophy,"  lisons-nous  dans  la  dite  revue,  "is 
an  entire  blank  in  English  literature,  excepting  always  the  eleganl  .lis 
sertations  by  Mr.  Stewart  in  the  Edinburgh  Encyclopedia." 

"The  reputation  of  M.  de  Gerando,"  ajoute  l'auteur  de  ['article  en 
question,  "stands  high  with  the  public  in  consequence  of  the  commenda- 
tions which  Mr.  Stewart  has  repeatedly  bestowed  upon  him  in  almost  all 
his  works;  ...  It  is  with  us  a  matter  not  only  of  regret  but  of  surprise, 
that  books  of  so  much  real  value,  and  at  the  same  time  of  so  popular  a 
character,  should  not  vet  have  found  a  translator,  either  with  us.  or  in 
England."     North  American  Review,  vol.  18,  pp.  234,  235,  236. 


450  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology      [Vol.  4 

nous  le  faisions  remarquer  tout  a,  l'heure,  grace  aux  termes 
elogieux  dans  lesquels  D.  Stewart  avait  tou jours  parle  de  son 
collegue  francais,  expliquent  suffisamment  l'accueil  plus  qu'em- 
presse  qu'on  fit  au  livre  que  le  meme  auteur  avait  intitule  Du 
perfectionnement  moral  et  de  V education  de  soi-meme,10  et  dont 
une  traduction,  faite  a  Boston  en  1830,20  contribua  largement  a 
repandre  les  doctrines  qui  y  etaient  exposees. 

II  n'y  avait  en  somme  rien  dans  ce  cernier  ouvrage  qu'on 
n'eiit  pu  decouvrir,  avec  un  peu  d 'attention,  dans  la  philosophic 
ecossaise.  La  chose  est  si  vraie  que  le  fameux  auteur  de  Philoso- 
phy of  the  Active  and  Moral  Powers  of  Man  dit  dans  un  de  ses 
essais,  parlant  de  1  'ecrivain  francais : 

J'ai  ete  particulierement  frappe  de  remarquer  une  frappante  et  complete 
analogie  eutre  ses  vues  generates  et  celles  qui  me  sout  propres;  s  'il  n 'a 
point  adopte  quelques-unes  des  conclusions  que  j'ai  tache  d'etablir,  je 
voudrais  pouvoir  l'attribuer  plutot  a,  1 'imperfection  du  cadre  ou  j'ai 
repandu  jusqu'a  ce  jour  mes  idees,  qu'a  la  faiblesse  des  arguments  qui 
m  'ont  conduit  a,  les  adopter.21 

Comme  les  conclusions  auxquelles  Dugald  Stewart  fait  ici  al- 
lusion interessent  specialement  le  probleme  de  la  connaissance, 
il  serait  deplace  de  les  discuter  ici. 

Ce  que  nos  deux  philosophes  possedaient  en  commun,  c'etait 
une  doctrine  qui,  par  endroits,  rapprochait  a  tel  point  la  religion 
de  la  morale — et  cela  seul  snffirait  a  expliquer  la  faveur  qu'elle 
trouva  aupres  des  spiritualistes  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre — 
qu'on  ne  voyait  plus  tres  bien  ou  l'une  finissait,  ou  1 'autre  com- 
mencait.  S'opposant  Tun  et  1 'autre  au  sensualisme  qui  faisait 
deriver  le  sentiment  moral  de  toute  une  serie  d 'experiences  sen- 
sibles  dont  le  monde  materiel  demeurait  la  cause  unique  ;  a  l'utili- 
tarisme,  qui  au  nom  de  la  raison  trouvait  dans  l'interet  bien 
entendu  la  raison  d'etre  de  ce  meme  sentiment,  Stewart  et  de 


lo  Du  perfectionnement  moral  ou  de  l' education  de  soi-meme,  par.  M.  de 
Gerando,  2  vols.     Seconde  edition  1826  (lere  edition  1824). 

20  Self-Education  or  the  Means  and  Art  of  Moral  Progress.  Translated 
from  the  French  of  M.  le  Baron  de  Gerando,  by  Elizabeth  Peabodv,  Boston, 
1830. 

2i  Troisieme  Essai,  p.  14.  Cf.  de  Gerando:  Eistoire  comparee  des  sys- 
temes  de  philosophic,  I,  pp.  5,  6. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  45] 

Gerando  firent  de  celui-ei  un  prfncipe  d'action,  dont  Les  com- 
mencements obscurs  doivent  etre  cherches  dans  le  sentiment  re- 
ligieux,  et  dont  les  fins  dernieres  sont  au-dela  des  limites  de 
l'existence  presente. 

A  l'instar  des  spiritnalistes  de  tous  les  temps  et  de  toua  les 
pays,  constatant  qu'il  y  a  dans  l'homme  antre  chose  que  des  or- 
ganes  capables  de  percevoir  les  sensations  produites  sur  lui  par 
le  monde  exterieur,  autre  chose,  aussi,  qu'une  intelligence  douee 
de  la  faculte  de  concevoir  des  idees,  d'en  expliquer  le  fonctionne- 
ment  et  d'en  comprendre  la  destination,  les  philosophes  dont  nous 
nous  occupons  chercherent  a  la  vie  un  but  independant  de  la 
satisfaction  de  besoins  materials,  etranger  a  la  sauvegarde  d'in- 
terets  temporels  meme  tres  legitimes,  et  s'entendirent  a  le  placer 
dans  une  obeissance  sans  reserve  au  bien  dont  nous  avons  con- 
science, grace  a  l'existence  en  nous  du  sens  moral,  quelles  que 
puissent  etre,  du  reste,  les  consequences  immediates  ou  extremes 
d'une  semblable  conduite. 

La  vie  et  le  devoir  etant  compris  ainsi,  il  en  resulte  naturelle- 
ment — nous  continuons  a  nous  placer  au  point  de  vue  de  nos  deux 
ecrivains — que  pour  conduire  l'homme  a  sa  veritable  destination 
"il  ne  suffit  pas,  quoique  ce  soit  necessaire,  de  lui  apprendre  a 
bien  user  de  son  esprit :  il  f ant  lui  apprendre  aussi  a  regler  ses 
passions  et  a  former  sa  volonte.  II  importe  done  que  la  morale 
qu'on  lui  trace  ait  pour  objet  de  cultiver  en  lui  avec  un  soin  egal 
le  coeur,  l'esprit,  et  le  caractere."  Le  livre  Du  perfection™  mt  nt 
moral,  comme  le  faissait  remarquer  Damiron  dans  cette  partie  de 
son  Essai  sur  I'histoire  de  la  philosophie  en  Franct  au  !?>»!<■ 
sieele  qu'il  consacra  a  J.  M.  de  Gerando,  "est  en  effet  tout  entier 
consacre  a  montrer  que  la  vie  de  l'homme  est  line  grande  et  con- 
tinuelle  education  qui  s'etend  a  toutes  ses  facultes  et  embrasse 
toutes  ses  relations,  .  .  .  et  qu'il  faut  s'attacher  a  developper  en 
soi  tous  les  principes  capables  d'inspirer  un  amour  eclaire"  »-t 
sincere  de  la  vertu."22 

Si  les  termes  memes  de  l'expose  succinct  des  idees  essentielles 
contenues  dans  le  livre  que  nous  avons  cite  laissent  assez  deviner 


22  ii,  pp.   ill,   113. 


452  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

que  ce  dernier  n'offre  dans  1 'argumentation  qui  en  prepare  les 
conclusions,  rien  de  cette  rigeur  scientifique  qui  est  le  propre 
d'un  traite  de  philosophic  plus  que  celui  d'un  traite  de  morale, 
ils  expliquent  aussi,  en  partie  du  moins,  pourquoi  ceux  des  uni- 
taires  qu'on  designa  plus  tard  sous  le  nom  de  transcendantalistes, 
porterent  plus  d  'attention  a  l'ouvrage  du  baron  de  Gerando 
qu'aux  dissertations  savantes  du  celebre  professeur  d'Edim- 
bourg  sur  le  sujet  traite  par  son  collegue  francais.  Nous  l'avons 
dit  souvent,  et  nous  ne  saurions  trop  insister  sur  ce  point:  les 
spiritualistes  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  n'etaient  point  des  meta- 
physiciens  inquietes  des  solutions  a  donner  au  probleme  de  la 
connaissance,  mais  seulement  des  moralistes  Chretiens  a  la  re- 
cherche d'une  doctrine  capable  de  concilier  la  religion  et  la 
science,  la  foi  et  la  raison,  et  surtout  desireux  de  trouver  les 
moyens  de  faire  une  application  integrale  des  principes  de 
l'Evangile  a  la  vie  de  l'individu  ainsi  qu'a  celle  de  la  societe. 
Qu'on  se  souvienne  que  telles  etaient  leurs  preoccupations,  et  Ton 
ne  s'etonnera  point  que  le  livre  Du  perfectionnement  moral  et  de 
V education  de  soi-meme,  dont  le  merite  essentiel  etait,  d'une 
part,  dans  la  clarte  de  son  exposition  et  la  chaleur  de  son  style, 
d 'autre  part  dans  le  souci  de  son  auteur  de  donner  a  la  morale 
la  religion  pour  fondement,  ait  ete  accueilli  avec  tant  de  faveur. 
De  meme  qu'en  1824,  a  1 'occasion  de  l'apparition  dans  la 
Nouvelle-Angleterre  de  VHistoire  comparee  des  syst ernes  de  phi- 
losophic,  on  s 'etait  plaint  de  ce  qu'aucun  ouvrage  de  ce  genre 
n'eut  ete  public,  ni  en  Angleterre,  ni  en  Amerique,  en  1830, 
quand  pour  la  premiere  fois  le  Christian  Examiner  introduisit 
aupres  de  ses  lecteurs  le  livre  que  de  Gerando  avait  intitule  Du 
perfectionnement  moral  et  de  V education  de  soi-meme.  on  ne 
manqua  pas  de  faire,  a  propos  de  cet  ecrit,  des  remarques  ana- 
logues. ' '  We  have  no  ethical  work  of  any  living  English  writer, ' ' 
faisait    remarquer    Channing23    dans    son    article    On    National 


23  Mentionnons,  en  passant,  que  W.  E.  Channing  remit  au  jeune  Sum- 
ner, en  1837,  au  moment  ou  ce  dernier  s'appretait  a  se  rendre  en  Europe, 
une  lettre  de  recommandation  qui  devait  l'introduire,  a  son  arrivee  a 
Paris,  aupres  du  baron  de  Gerando  (Pierce,  Memoir  of  Sumner,  I,  254-255). 


1916]  Girard:  Ihi  transcendantalisme  453 

Literature,241  "to  be  compared  with  that  of  Degerando,  entitled 
Moral  Perfectionnement."  Parlant  de  la  traduction  de  ce1 
ouvrage,  traduction  qui  parut  a  Boston,  en  1830,  sous  le  titre  de 
Self -Education,  or  the  Means  and  Art  of  Moral  Progress,  la 
revue  a  laquelle  nous  venous  de  faire  allusion  s'expriinait  comme 
suit :  "It  holds  a  station  in  moral  philosophy  which  has  no1  been 
filled  by  any  writer  in  our  language,  either  among  the  living  or 
the  dead."25 

L'accueil  si  bienveillant  qu'on  fit  en  Amerique  aux  ecrits  de 
J.  M.  de  Gerando,  1 'admiration  enthousiaste  qu'on  y  eut  pour 
leur  auteur  et  les  termes  eleves  dans  lesquels  on  s  'entretint  de  sa 
philosophic,  disent  assez  qu'au  moment  de  la  formation  du 
transcendantalisme,  c'est-a-dire  au  moment  oil  les  inspirateurs 
de  ce  dernier  mouvement  se  separerent  de  leurs  freres  unitaires, 
les  uns  leur  paraissant  trop  entaches  encore  de  calvinisme,  les 
autres  trop  disposes  a  se  contenter  de  la  morale  tout  utilitaire 
d'un  christianisme  rationaliste,  les  idealistes  de  la  Nouvelle- 
Angleterre  ne  portaient  point  a,  la  metaphysique  et  a  ses  specu- 
lations, voire  a  aucun  systeme  philosophique  aux  formes  bien 
arretees,  tout  l'interet  que  d'aucuns  ont  suppose,  et  qu'ils  se 
contenterent  d'une  doctrine  dont  ils  avaient  trouve  dans  la  phi- 
losophic ecossaise  les  premieres  generalisations,  et  dont  ils  ac- 
eepterent  les  formes  definies  que  leur  preta  1 'auteur  du  livre 
Du  perfectionnement  moral  et  de  V education  de  soi-meme. 

Nous  avons  une  preuve  de  plus  de  ce  que  nous  venons  d'af- 
firmer,  dans  les  remarques  dont  1 'auteur  du  dernier  article  que 


2*  Christian  Examiner,  VII,  p.  292.  Et  le  meme  auteur  continue  en 
disant:  "...  and  although  we  have  little  respect  for  the  rash  general- 
izations of  the  bold  and  eloquent  Cousin,  yet  the  interest  which  his  meta- 
physics awaken  in  Paris  is  in  our  estimation  a  better  presage  than  the 
lethargy  which  prevails  on  such  topics  in  England.  .  .  .  The  intellect  of 
England  is  laboring  more  for  herself  than  for  mankind,  and  our  scholars, 
if  they  would  improve  our  literature,  should  cultivate  an  intimacy  not 
only  with  that  of  England,  but  of  continental  Europe.  ...  We  earnestly 
recommend  to  our  educated  men  a  more  extensive  acquaintance  with  the 
intellectual  labors  of  continental  Europe.  Our  reading  is  confined  too 
much  to  English  books,  and  especially  to  the  more  recent  publications  of 
Great  Britain.     In  this  we  err. ' ' 

25  Christian  Examiner,  IX,  p.  70;  voir  aussi  pp.  9,  10,  82,  98  et  103. 


454  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

nous  avons  cite  fait  suivre  ce  que  nous  en  avons  rapporte,  re- 
niarques  dont  la  teneur  se  presente  comme  suit: 

We  want  a  work  like  this,  which  we  can  ponder  with  delight  in  our 
studies,  and  read  with  our  families  at  the  fireside;  .  .  .  for  our  own  use 
in  the  hours  of  mental  misgiving  and  gloom,  when  the  mystery  of  the 
universe  presses  heavily  upon  our  souls;  .  .  .  for  the  use  of  our  prac- 
tical men,  who  .  .  .  often  acquire  a  distaste  for  all  moral  and  religious 
inquiries.  .  .  .  The  work  of  Degerando  .  .  .  approaches  more  nearly  to  our 
idea  of  a  perfect  treatise  on  the  application  of  moral  philosophy  to 
human  improvement  than  any  one  with  which  we  are  acquainted.26 

Les  passages  sont  noinbreux  que  Ton  pourrait  citer  a  l'appui 
de  la  proposition  que  nous  avons  enoncee.  Nous  nous  conten- 
terons  de  rapporter  ici  un  des  plus  caracteristiques.  "We  do 
rejoice  in  their  tendency" — l'auteur  de  l'article  auquel  nous 
empruntons  ces  lignes  fait  ici  allusion  a  quelques  representants 
de  l'ecole  eclectique  parmi  lesquels  figure  de  Gerando — "which 
is  to  place  the  great  truths  of  the  existence  of  the  Deity,  the  free 
agency  of  man,  his  immortality,  and  his  vocation  to  moral  pro- 
gress as  the  chief  purpose  of  his  being,  on  a  deep  and  solid 
foundation."27 

Sauvegarder  la  morale  au  nom  de  la  religion ;  prescrire  a 
1  'liomme  comme  but  de  son  existence  entiere  le  perf ectionnement ; 


26  Christian  Examiner,  IX,  pp.  75,  76. 

27  Christian  Examiner,  IX,  p.  105.  II  n'est  pas  sans  interet  d'ajouter 
aux  quelques  lignes  que  nous  avons  reproduites,  les  reflexions  dont  elles 
sont  accompagnees:  "We  are  glad,  moreover,"  continuons-nous  a  lire 
dans  la  meme  revue,  "to  welcome  among  us  a  work  like  this  [Dm  perfec- 
f ectionnement  moral]  from  the  new  school  of  France.  What  the  peculiar 
theological  sentiments  of  its  author  are,  ...  we  care  not  to  ask;  we  do 
know  that  his  religious  sentiments  are  decidedly  christian,  .  .  .  and  that 
all  truths  are  contained  in  Christianity. 

' '  To  those  who  remember  the  influence  which  the  writings  of  Vol- 
taire, Diderot,  and  the  contributors  to  the  Encyclopedia  in  general  have 
exerted  on  the  public  mind,  not  only  on  the  continent  of  Europe,  but  in 
England  and  in  our  own  country,  it  must  be  less  gratifying  than  it  is  to 
us  to  welcome  a  writer  inferior  to  none  of  them ' ' — nous  laisons  a  1  'auteur 
de  ces  lignes  la  responsabilite  de  telles  assertions — ' '  in  depth  and  variety, 
in  literary  attainments,  and  superior  to  most  of  them  in  calmness  and 
sobriety  of  philosophical  judgment;  who  appears  as  the  dignified  and 
enlightened  advocate  of  religion  and  virtue,  and  the  expounder  of  princi- 
ples which  recognize  the  true  destiny  of  human  nature,  and  we  rejoice 
that  this  work  [la  traduction  de  l'ouvrage  que  nous  avons  cite]  is  added 
to  the  literary  treasures  of  our  own  language." — Voir  aussi  American 
Quarterly  Register,  IX,  pp.  22  et  suiv. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme 


455 


lui  enseigner  a  rechercher  tout  ce  qui  est  capable  de  lui  inspirer 
l'amour  du  bien  et  de  le  reiidre  capable  de  gouverner  dans  ce 
sens  ses  passions  et  sa  volonte,  telles  etaient  encore  une  Eois  Irs 
preoccupations  des  idealistes  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre,  et  tellea 
etaient  aussi  les  idees  essentielles  dont  l'expose  et  le  developpe- 
ment  constituerent  le  livre  Du  perfectionnement  moral  et  d\ 
V education  de  soi-meme. 

Si  maintenant  pour  donner  au  chapitre  que  nous  allons 
quitter  la  conclusion  qu'on  en  attend,  nous  tentons  de  resumer 
en  quelques  mots  ce  que  nous  y  avons  expose,  nous  sommes  con- 
duit a  dire  que  les  idealistes  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  durenl 
aux  ouvrages  du  baron  de  Gerando  une  bonne  part  de  l'interet 
qu'ils  porterent  au  neo-platonisme,  et  puis  aussi  les  formes 
definies  dans  lesquelles  ils  fixerent  l'idee  qu'ils  concurent  de  la 
religion,  de  la  morale  et  de  la  destinee  de  l'homme.  Grace  en 
partie  a  leur  lecture  de  VHistoire  comparee  des  systemes  de  />/'/'- 
losophie,  a  l'instar  de  Plotin  et  de  tous  ses  disciples  faisant  de 
Tame  humaine  une  sorte  d 'emanation  de  la  divinite,  ils  revendi- 
querent  les  droits  de  la  conscience  et  du  coeur;  a  l'instar  de 
l'auteur  du  livre  intitule  Du  perfectionnement  moral,  ils  firent 
du  sens  moral  une  force  sui  generis,  cause  d 'action  et  non  point 
resultante  de  tout  une  serie  d 'experiences  sensibles  dirigees  par 
1 'education  vers  des  buts  immediats  et  interesses,  comme  le  vou- 
lait  l'ecole  philosopbique  du  sensualisme;  enfin,  reprenant  une 
idee  chere  deja  a  Benjamin  Constant  et  a,  Mme.  de  Stael,  et  qu'ils 
retrouverent  developpee  plus  completement  dans  celui  des  ecrits 
de  J.  M.  de  Gerando  que  nous  venons  de  citer,  ils  firent  du  per- 
fectionnement la  loi  par  excellence  de  la  nature  humaine. 

Une  doctrine  enoncee  dans  les  termes  que  nous  avons  rappeles 
n'etait  pas  autre  chose  que  du  transcendantalisme.  Si  on  peul 
lui  reprocher  de  n'etre  dans  les  formes  que  nous  lui  avons  vu 
prendre  jusqu'ici,  que  pseudo-scientifique,  elle  changera  de 
caractere  et  deviendra  plus  rigoureusement  philosophique,  en 
France  grace  aux  travaux  remarquables  de  Victor  Cousin  e1  de 
son  disciple  distingue,  Theodore  Jouffroy,  dans  la  Nouvelle- 
Angleterre  grace  a  1 'influence  qu'y  exerca  l'eclectisme  frangais. 


456  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

Toutefois,  comme  il  n'est  presque  rien  de  cette  derniere  doctrine 
que  nous  ne  puissions  decouvrir  avec  un  peu  d 'attention  chez 
ceux  qui  furent  les  maitres  de  Victor  Cousin,  il  est  indispensable 
que  nous  disions  quelque  chose  des  precurseurs- de  l'eclectisme, 
quelque  chose  aussi  de  ce  que  le  celebre  professeur  de  l'uni- 
versite  de  Paris  dut,  soit  a  la  philosophie  ecossaise,  soit  a  la  phi- 
losophic allemande.  Cela  nous  permettra  de  discerner  plus  net- 
tement  le  caractere  de  rinfluence  exercee  par  Cousin  sur  les 
transcendantalistes. 


4.  L'eclectisme  franqais  et  le  transcendantalisaie 

(a)  De  quclques  precurseurs  de  l'eclectisme  franco/is. — Qui- 
conque  est  taut  soit  peu  familier  avec  les  destinees  de  la  philo- 
sophie francaise  au  18me  siecle  n'est  pas  sans  se  rendre  conipte 
que  la  doctrine  qui  fut  appelee  eclectisme  n'etait  point  le  simple 
et  naturel  aboutissement  de  l'idealisme  de  Descartes,  non  plus 
que  le  produit  necessaire  de  la  reaction  que  ne  pouvait  manquer 
d'appeler  la  philosophie  du  System*  de  hi  nature.  II  y  avait  dans 
l'esprit,  voire,  par  endroits,  dans  les  formes  de  la  nouvelle  doc- 
trine, quelque  chose  d'etranger  aux  facons  de  penser  et  de  dire 
des  ecrivains  francais ;  quelque  chose  aussi  qui  trahissait  des 
preoccupations  et  des  inquietudes  qui  sont  le  propre  de  Tame 
protestante,  et  qu'on  ne  s'etonne  point  de  surprendre  chez  les 
disciples,  fideles  on  infideles,  de  Calvin,  chez  les  philosophes 
ecossais,  par  exemple,  et  plus  tard,  comme  on  sait,  parmi  les  puri- 
tains  de  la  Nouvelle- Angleterre.  Des  lors,  et  quand  bien  meme 
nous  ne  serious  point  porte  par  les  etudes  que  nous  avons  faites 
dans  cette  direction,  a  rechercher  en  Angleterre  les  premieres 
origines  de  l'eclectisme  francais,  nous  soupconnerions  fort,  pour 
les  raisons  que  nous  venons  d  'avancer,  qu  'on  dut  les  y  trouver. 

S'il  est  bien  evident  que  nous  ne  saurions  ici  etablir  les 
causes  qui  engagerent  les  eclectiques  francais  a  se  tourner  pour 
un  temps  vers  la  philosophie  ecossaise  avant  d'accorder  encore 
plus  d 'attention  a  l'idealisme  allemand,  il  importe  cependent  que 
nous  disions  quelque  chose  de  deux  ecrivains  qui  contribuerent 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalismi  457 

peut-etre,  d'une  part,  a  frayer  les  voies  qui  conduisirenl  J.  M. 
de  Gerando  et  Royer-Collard  a  Reid  e1  a  Stewart,  d'autre  pari 

a  diriger  vers  l'Allemagne  les  pensees  de  Victor  Cousin,  1  'eleve  e1 
le  disciple  de  Eoyer-Collard.  L'un  de  ces  ecrivains  etait  C.  V. 
de  Bonstetten,  l'autre  J.  P.  Ancillon.2S 

Ne  en  Suisse,  c'est-a-dire  dans  un  pays  ou  entraient  en  con- 
tact les  grands  courants  d'idees  venus  de  Franc  el  d  'AUemagne, 
preoccupe  lui  aussi,  parce  que  protestant,  de  trouver  aux  choses 
de  la  morale  et  de  la  religion  un  fondemenl  philosophique,  de 
Bonstetten,29  a  l'instar  des  philosophes  ecossais  dont  on  diseutait 
beaucoup  les  travaux  a  Geneve  ou  il  passa  une  bonne  partie  de  sa 
vie,  fit  de  la  science  de  l'ame  la  science  par  excellence.  Apres 
s'etre  applique  tout  d'abord  a  l'etude  des  choses  de  1 'esprit,  il 
s'interessa  peu  a  peu  a,  celles  de  la  sensibilite,  que  J.  J.  Rousseau 
avait  mises  a  la  mode  et  rehabilitees,  et  tout  en  restant  fidele  en 
matiere  de  religion  a  l'orthodoxie  calviniste,  comme  il  convenait 
du  reste,  au  18me  siecle,  a  tout  representant  de  la  noblesse  ber- 
noise,  il  s'eloigna  des  lieux  communs  du  sensualisme  de  Locke  et 
s'efforca  d 'etablir  qu'il  existe  une  difference  essentielle  entre  le 
sentiment  et  la  sensation,  et  que  le  sens  moral  n'est  ni  le  produit 
de  cette  sensation,  ni  celui  de  1 'intelligence,  mais  bien  plutot  une 
perception  sui  generis  de  l'harmonie  que  Dieu  a  voulu  etablir 
entre  le  monde  interieur  et  le  moncle  exterieur,  harmonie  sur 
laquelle  reposent  le  bien  et  la  justice.  II  reproche  a  la  philoso- 
phic de  Descartes  de  n 'avoir  tenu  compte  dans  l'homme  que  de 
l'esprit,  a  celle  de  Condillac  et  de  tous  ses  disciples  de  tout  faire 
dependre  de  la  sensation.  Puis,  ayant  declare  leurs  systemes  in- 
complete,  il   songea   a    etablir   une   doctrine   qui,   tout    en    em- 


28  Nous  sommes  d'autant  plus  autorise  a  signaler  parmi  les  pr^cur- 
seurs  de  l'eclectisme  fran§ais,  de  Bonstetten  et  Aneillon,  que  les  revues 
anglaises  et  amerieaines  firent  de  leurs  travaux  des  eomptes  rendus  fort 
bienveillants  et  qu  'ils  peuvent  l'un  et  l'autre  avoir  contribue  en  quelque 
mesure  a  faire  connaitre  une  doctrine  que  les  ouvrages  de  Cousin  ex- 
poserent  plus  completement  et  firent  mieux  accepter. 

29  Charles  Victor  de  Bonstetten,  litterateur,  ne  a  Berne  en  L745,  morl 
a  Geneve  en  1832;  etudia  aux  universites  de  Ley.le  et  de  Cambridge. 
Auteur  de  Becherches  sur  la  nature  et  les  lois  de  I 'imagination  (2  vol., 
Geneve,  1807)  et  d'une  Etude  de  l'homme,  ou  pensies  sur  les  facultis  de 
sentir  et  de  penser  (Geneve,  1821). 


458  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology      [Vol.  4 

pruntant  au  cartesianisme  et  au  ' '  condillacisme ' '  la  part  de  verite 
que  l'un  et  l'autre  contiennent,  s'en  distingue  nettement  grace 
a  cet  element  nouveau — sens  moral  ou  conscience — qu'il  y  ajoute 
et  qui  etait  destine  a,  lui  proposer  des  fins  plus  elevees. 

Une  doctrine  philosophique  que  Ton  peut  resumer  ainsi  etait 
non  seulement  une  refutation  du  sensualisme  de  Locke  et  du 
scepticisme  qui  en  sortit;  c 'etait  deja  de  l'eclectisme,  mais  un 
eclectisme  auquel  manquaient  encore  des  formes  bien  arretees, 
ce  qui  ne  permettait  ni  d'en  tirer  toutes  les  conclusions,  ni  d'en 
faire  toutes  les  applications  dont  il  etait  capable. 

On  en  peut  dire  autant  de  l'eclectisme  qu'on  peut  extraire 
des  ecrits  qu'Ancillon  fit  paraitre,  a  la  meme  epoque,  sur  dif- 
ferents  sujets  de  philosophic  et  de  litterature.30 

Comme  nous  avons  eu  l'occasion  de  le  signaler  ailleurs,  Mme. 
de  Stael  avait  ete  frappee  des  vues  ingenieuses  exposees  par 
l'auteur  des  Melanges  de  litterature  et  de  philosophic  sur  la  re- 
ligion et  sur  les  sciences  morales.  Ancillon  s 'etait  applique  a 
etablir  qu'il  est  un  endroit  ou  les  connaissances  experimentales 
s  'arretent  et  ou  commence  le  monde  des  sentiments ;  "  qu  'au  dela, 
des  preuves  demonstratives,  il  y  a  1 'evidence  naturelle;"  qu'on 
n  'a  pas  encore  resolu  le  probleme  de  la  destinee  de  1  'horarae  parce 
qu'on  croit  avoir  resolu  celui  de  la  connaissance. 

A  1'instar  de  Reid,  et  plus  encore  de  Stewart,  de  Benjamin 
Constant  et  de  J.  M.  de  Gerando — et  n'est-ce  pas  ce  que  firent 
un  peu  plus  tard  les  transcendantalistes  de  la  Nouvelle- 
Angleterre — c'est  de  l'homme  avant  tout  qu'il  entend  s'occuper. 
S'il  veut  bien  que  eelui-ci  soit  ne  pour  le  bonheur,  comme  le 
dirent  bien  haut  tous  les  adeptes  consequents  de  l'ecole  sen- 
sualiste,  il  veut  encore  davantage  qu'il  soit  ne  pour  le  bien, 
celui-la  n'etant  qu'une  consequence  de  celui-ci.  En  politique, 
Ancillon  s 'etait  fait  le  defenseur  d'une  doctrine  destinee  a  com- 
biner heureusement  les  avantages  de  la  monarchic  avec  ceux  du 
regime  constitutionnel ;  s'opposant  tout  a  la  fois  au  despotisme, 
que  justifiaient  la  plupart  des  partisans  de  l'ecole  theologique,  a 
la  demagogie  a  laquelle  avaient  abouti  les  conclusions  extremes 


so  Voir  note  46,  p.  417. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  459 

qu'on  avait  su  tirer,  vers  la  fin  du  18me  siecle,  de  La  doctrine  de 
Locke  et  de  Condillac.  Dans  les  arts  et  en  Litterature,  prenanl 
une  position  intermediaire  entre  les  classiques  et  Les  romantiques, 

il  veut  que  Ton  combine  tout  ce  qui  est  capable  de  servir  Irs  huts 
eleves  et  legitimes  de  Tune  et  de  l'autre  de  ces  deux  ecoles;  en 
religion  et  en  philosophic  il  pense  que  le  temoignage  des  saintes 
Ecritures  et  celui  de  la  speculation  metaphysique  ne  sauraient 
etre  vrais  que  s'ils  ne  s'opposent  point  l'un  a  l'autre  et  ne  con- 
tredisent  point  celui  de  la  conscience. 

Preoccupe  qu'il  est  toujours  de  se  garder  des  extremes  et  de 
rechercher  dans  les  systemes  les  plus  opposes  la  part  de  verite 
qu'on  peut  y  decouvrir,  Ancillon  fut  certainement  un  de  ces 
eclectiques  qui  preparerent  la  voie  aux  representants  les  plus 
distingues  d'une  doctrine  dont  le  caractere  essentiel — le  meme 
partout  dans  le  monde  protestant — fut  son  opposition  a  la  the- 
ologie  calviniste  traditionnelle  ainsi  qu'a  la  philosophie  sen- 
sualiste,  nous  voulons  dire  a  Victor  Cousin  et  a  Theodore 
Jouffroy. 

S'il  est  permis  de  voir  dans  C.  V.  de  Bonstetten  et  dans  J.  P. 
Ancillon  les  reels  precurseurs  d'une  doctrine  qui  devait  com- 
biner avec  tant  de  bonheur  les  donnees  essentielles  de  Tidealisme 
kantien  avec  celles  de  la  philosophie  ecossaise,  rhonneur  revieut 
a  Royer-Collard,  et  beaucoup  plus  encore  a  Victor  Cousin  ainsi 
qu'a  son  disciple  distingue,  Theodore  Jouffroy,  d 'avoir  etabli 
l'eclectisme  sur  un  fondement  scientifique  bien  assure,  et  d'en 
avoir  fait,  en  quelque  sorte,  une  nouvelle  philosophie.  S'il  est 
vrai,  toutefois,  qu'on  n'y  decouvrirait  difficilement  rien  qu'on  ne 
puisse  signaler,  soit  dans  les  ecrits  de  Reid  ou  de  Stewart,  soit 
dans  Kant  et  les  homines  de  son  ecole,  les  eclectiques  franeais, 
neanmoins,  surent  refaire  avec  les  materiaux  qu'ils  emprunterent 
chez  leurs  voisins  tout  un  systeme  philosophique  dont  les  diverses 
parties  sont  si  bien  agencees,  dont  les  lignes  le  long  desqueiles 
avance  l'argumentation  sont  si  bien  tracees,  dont  les  conclusions 
apparaissent  si  evidentes,  qu'il  retint  l'attention  et  gagna  1 'ad- 
miration d'un  public  qui  ne  s'etait  interesse  que  mediocrement 
aux  speculations  metaphysiques  des  philosophes  allemands,  e1  a 


460  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

peine  davantage  aux  dissertations  savantes  des  philosophes 
ecossais. 

Parmi  les  precurseurs  de  l'eclectisme  francais  nous  ne  pou- 
vons  nous  dispenser  de  mentionner  ceux  qui  furent,  en  somme, 
les  veritables  maitres  de  Victor  Cousin,  ceux  auxquels,  du  moins, 
il  emprunta  les  premieres  formes  de  sa  pensee  philosophique, 
c'est-a-dire  Maine  de  Biran  et  Royer-Collard.31 

11  y  a  dans  Maine  de  Biran,32  a  cote  d'un  disciple  de  Leibnitz, 
un  penseur  original  auquel  revient  le  merite  d  'avoir,  un  des 
premiers,  insiste  sur  cette  idee  capitale  que  la  vie  elle-meme  est 
la  cause  des  causes,  que  l'ame  humaine  est  une  force,  et  que 
1 'etude  de  la  pensee  n'est  que  celle  d'un  phenomene  particulier 
de  notre  organisme.  Partant  de  ce  principe,  qu'au-dela  de  toutes 
les  combinaisons  que  notre  esprit  se  plait  a  imaginer  ou  que  notre 
activite  est  capable  de  creer,  qu'au-dela  de  tout  ce  que  nous 
pouvons  penser,  sentir  ou  accomplir,  il  y  a  la  vie,  cause  des 
causes,  force  eternelle,  anterieure  a,  toute  analyse  et  independante 
d'elle — M.  Bergson,  comme  on  voit,  n'a  rien  invente — ;  admettant, 
d 'autre  part,  que  la  conscience  est  "reellement  le  principe  et  la 
condition  de  toute  connaissance "  et  que  Tame  humaine  est  une 
force  sui  generis,  active  et  libre;  tenant  compte  egalement  des 


31  Nous  aurions  pu,  a  la  rigeur,  faire  figurer  parmi  les  precurseurs  de 
l'eclectisme  J.  M.  de  Gerando,  dont  nous  avons  deja  parle,  et  P.  Laromi- 
guiere,  qui  initia  Cousin  aux  choses  de  la  philosophie.  Si  nous  ne 
1  'avons  point  fait,  c  'est  que  le  premier  de  ces  ecrivains  a  si  peu  coordonne 
les  idees  philosophiques  qu'il  partagea  avec  Mme.  de  Stael  que,  si  elles 
servent  bien  la  cause  de  la  morale  et  de  la  religion,  on  ne  voit  pas  trop 
bien  a  quel  systeme  proprement  dit  il  conviendrait  de  les  rattacher. 
Quant  a  l'auteur  des  Legons  de  philosophic,  il  est  encore  trop  attache  au 
"  condillacisme  "  pour  que  nous  songions  a  lui  donner  une  place  autre  que 
celle  qu'il  s'est  choisie  lui-meme. 

32  M.  F.  P.  Gonthier  Maine  de  Biran  (1766-1824),  metaphysicien 
frangais;  Memoire  sur  I'habitude  (Paris,  1803);  Sur  la  decomposition  de  la 
pensee  (Paris,  1805);  Examen  des  legons  de  M.  de  Laromiguiere,  Leibnitz, 
articles  ecrits  pour  la  Biographie  Universelle;  Essai  stir  les  fondements  de 
ia  psychologic  et  Nouveaux  essais  d'anthropologie.  qui  ne  furent  publies 
qu'en  1859.  Victor  Cousin  fit  paraitre,  en  1834,  Nouvelles  considerations 
sur  les  rapports  du  physique  et  du  moral  de  I'homme;  en  1840,  (Eurres  philo- 
sophiques <lr  Maine  de  Biran,  3  vol.  Entre  1846  et  1849  parurent  les  (Eurres 
inSdites  de  Maine  de  Biran,  editees  par  Ernest  Naville. 

S'il  est  chez  les  spiritualistes  francais  un  philosophe  qui  merite  d'etre 
classe  parmi  les  transcendantalistes,  e'est  bien  Maine  de  Biran  qui  ad- 
mettait  que  par  dela  les  verites  du  raisonnement  il  y  a  celles  de  1  'intuition 
auxquelles  toute  experience  sensible  demeure  completement  etrangere. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  trans cendantalisrru  .|iil 

exigences  de  la  metaphysique  et  de  celles  de  la  psychologie,  de 
eelles  de  la  religion  et  de  celles  de  la  science,  Maine  de  Biran  8 
ete,  en  France,  le  precnrseur  de  la  philosophic  spiritualists  plus 
encore  que  celui  de  Feclectisme. 

Avec  Royer-Collard,33  nous  touchons  a  cette  phase  de  L'eelec- 
tisme  et  du  spiritualisme  franeais  ou  ceux-ci,  apres  avoir  revetu 
les  formes  que  lui  avaient  prete  pour  un  temps  de  Bonstetten  e1 
Ancillon,  et  beaucoup  plus  encore  J.  M.  de  Gerando  et  .Maine  de 
Biran,  prirent  contact  avec  la  philosophic  ecossaise,  d'abord, 
puis,  un  peu  plus  tard,  avec  la  philosophic  allemande. 

Au  moment  ou  Royer-Collard  venait  d'etre  nomme  profes- 
seur  de  philosophie  a  la  Faculte  des  Lettres  de  Paris,  c'est-a-dire 
en  1811,  le  " condillacisme "  etait  encore  en  France  "un  dogme 
ayant  force  de  croyance,"  tandis  qu'en  Angleterre,  grace  airs 
travaux  de  Reid  et  de  Stewart,  en  Allemagne,  grace  a  ceux  de 
Kant  et  des  hommes  de  son  ecole,  la  doctrine  philosophique  du 
sensualisme  etait  deja  tombee  passablement  en  desuetude. 

A  Faide  des  arguments  dont  les  philosophes  ecossais  s'etaient 
servis  pour  leur  refutation  de  Berkeley,  de  Locke  et  de  Hume, 
Royer-Collard  s'attaqua  au  Traite  des  sensations,  s'appliquant 
a  son  tour  a  montrer  que  la  sensation  n'explique  ni  la  presence 
dans  notre  esprit  des  notions  de  substance,  de  cause,  de  temps 
et  d'espace.  Ensuite,  abandonnant  les  regions  steriles  de  la 
metaphysique  pour  ne  plus  s'occuper  que  de  celles  dans  lesquelles 
riiomme  se  meut  chaque  jour,  il  rappela  les  consequences 
desastrenses  auxquelles  avait  conduit  une  doctrine  qui,  ayanl 
etabli  que  la  sensation  est  tout,  enseignait  que  le  seul  devoir 
auquel  l'homme  soit  astreint  est  de  ceder  a  toutes  les  impulsions 
que  sa  nature  lui  fait  eprouver.  A  l'instar  des  philosophes  ecos- 
sais, se  tenant  a  l'ecart,  tout  a  la  fois,  de  Fidealisme  trop  speci- 
nquement  metaphysique  de  Berkeley  ou  de  Descartes  et  du  sen- 
sualisme de  Locke  et  de  Condillac ;  faisant  deriver  de  la  psycholo- 
gie,  c'est-a-dire  d'une  connaissance  plus   exacte  de   la   nature 


33  Pierre-Paul  Eoyer-Collard  (1763-1845),  professeur  de  philosophie 
a  l'Universite  de  Paris  de  1811  a  1814.  Les  manuscrita  de  sea  leQons  de 
philosophie  parurent  dans  les  tomes  III  et  IV  des  (Euvres  d<  Beid,  tra- 
duites  par  Jouffroy. 


462  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology      [Vol.  4 

humaine,  la  notion  morale  du  devoir,  Royer-Collard  fut  bien  le 
precurseur  de  celui  qui,  apres  avoir  ete  son  disciple  favori,  mit 
peu  de  temps  a  devenir  le  maitre  inconteste  de  l'eclectisnie 
francais. 

(&)  Victor  Cousin  et  la  philosophic  ecossaise. — Si  l'enseigne- 
ment  de  Royer-Collard  a  1  'universite  de  Paris  n'avait  pas  ete  de 
longue  duree — il  prenait  fin  deja  en  1814 — il  avait  ete  si  eloquent 
et  si  persuasif  que  le  mouvement  d'idees  qu'il  avait  inaugure  ne 
s'arreta  pas  avec  lui.  Comme  le  fait  remarquer  Damiron,34 
Cousin35  herita  de  son  maitre  "cette  clientele  des  consciences" 
qu'a  force  d'ame,  de  talent  et  de  science  il  sut  se  conserver,  et 
instruisit,  mieux  encore  que  ses  predecesseurs  a,  la  chaire  qu'il 
occupa  a  la  Faculte  des  Lettres  de  Paris,  des  grandes  choses  de 
la  morale  et  de  la  philosophic 

Ce  que  Victor  Cousin  emprunta  a  la  philosophie  ecossaise, 
c'est  ce  qu'il  entendit  exposer  par  Royer-Collard  et  c'est  ce  qu'il 
professa  jusqu'au  jour  de  son  depart  pour  l'Allemagne,  c'est-a- 
dire  jusqu'en  1817.  A  l'instar  de  Reid  et  de  Stewart,  il  enseigna 
done  que  l'idee  du  bien  ne  vient  ni  des  sens,  ni  de  la  reflexion,  et 
"qu'il  faut  la  rapporter  a  une  faculte  de  l'ame  differente  de 
toutes  les  autres  et  dont  le  fonctionnement  est  de  nous  donner 


34  J.  P.  Damiron  (1794-1862),  eleve  et  disciple  de  Victor  Cousin; 
auteur  d'un  Essai  sur  I'histoire  de  la  philosophie  en  France,  au  19me  siecle 
(lere  edition  1828,  5me  edition,  2  vol.,  Bruxelles,  1835),  essai  que  les  trans- 
cendantalistes  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  mentionnent  occasionnellement. 

35  Victor  Cousin  (1892-1867),  apres  avoir  ete  1 'eleve  de  Laromiguiere, 
de  Royer-Collard  et  de  Maine  de  Biran,  succeda  au  second,  en  1815,  comme 
professeur  de  philosophie  a,  la  Faculte  des  Lettres  de  Paris.  De  1817  a 
1818  il  sejourna  en  Allemagne,  oil  il  entra  en  relations  suivies  avec  Hegel, 
Jacobi  et  Sehelling.  Son  cours,  suspendu  en  1820  pour  des  raisons  poli- 
tiques,  fut  repris  en  1827.  Fait  pair  de  France  par  la  revolution  de 
Juillet,  il  fut  nomme  successivement  membre  du  conseil  superieur  de 
1  'instruction  publique,  directeur  de  1  'Ecole  normale,  ministre  de  1  'instruction 
publique. 

Ne  faisant  ici  mention  que  de  ceux  de  ses  ouvrages  qui,  de  pres  ou 
de  loin,  interessent  cette  partie  de  notre  travail  a  laquelle  sont  attachees 
ces  notes,  nous  nous  contenterons  d'indiquer:  Fragments  philosophiques, 
1826;  Nouveaux  fragments  philosophiques,  1828;  Cours  d'histoire  de  la  philo- 
sophie, 1826  (revu  en  1840  et  1863) ;  Cours  de  philosophie  prof  esse  a  la 
faculte  des  Lettres  de  Paris  pendant  I'annee  1818 ;  (1836)  (Du  vrai,  du  beau 
et  du  bien,  1S53)  ;  Cours  d'histoire  de  la  philosophie  moderne,  1841;  Cours 
d'histoire  de  la  philosophie  morale  au  18me  siecle,  1840-41;  edition  de  Des- 
cartes, 11  vol.,  1826;  edition  de  Proclus,  6  vol.,  1820-27;  traduction  de 
Platon,  13  vol.,  1825-1840;  CEuvres,  22  vol.,  1846-1847. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcen&antalisme 


463 


eette  idee,  comme  la  fonction  de  la  reflexion  est  de  nous  dormer 
les  idees  de  la  reflexion,  et  celle  des  sens  exterieurs  de  nous  don- 
ner  les  idees  sensibles,"  a  cette  faculte  de  l'ame  que  Hutcheson 
lui-meme  appelait  deja  le  sens  moral. 

A  mesure  qu'on  se  familiarise  davantage  avec  les  ouvrages 
de  Victor  Cousin,  avec  ceux  du  moins  qu'il  ecrivit  durant  la  pre- 
miere periode  de  son  enseignement,  on  est  gagne  a  l'impression 
qu  'il  dut  meme  beaucoup  plus  a  1  'esthetique  ainsi  qu  'a  la  morale 
de  Hutcheson36  qu'a  celles  de  Thomas  Reid,  a  qui  il  reproche 
constamment  de  s'etre  trop  attache  a  la  doctrine  du  sens  commun, 
de  n'etre  pas  alle  assez  loin  dans  son  etude  du  probleme  de  la 
connaissance,  puis  surtout,  de  n 'avoir  pas  separe  assez  nettement 
le  bonheur  de  la  vertu,  et  de  n 'avoir  pas  eleve  assez  haut  la  raison. 
En  d'autres  termes,  Cousin  reproche  a  Reid  d 'avoir  fait  reposer 
les  notions  de  bonheur  et  de  vertu  sur  des  termes  beaucoup  trop 
vagues  et  trop  generaux,  d 'avoir  aussi  trop  rapproche  celles  de 
devoir  et  d  'interet. 

Ce  que  Victor  Cousin  herita  de  Thomas  Reid  peut-etre  plus 
que  de  Hutcheson,  c'est  sa  methode  experimentale.  S'il  en 
changea  le  nom,  il  en  garda  les  procedes.  "Le  premier  devoir  de 
la  methode  psychologique, "  dira  l'auteur  des  Fragments  phi- 


36  Francis  Hutcheson  (1694-1746),  professeur  de  morale  a  1 'universite 
de  Glasgow,  fut  le  reel  fondateur  de  la  philosophie  ecossaise,  dont  il 
emprimta  a  Shaftesbury  les  donnees  essentielles.  Ses  ouvrages  les  plus 
appreeies  furent  Inquiry  into  the  Original  of  our  Ideas  of  Beauty  and  Vir- 
tue, dont  trois  editions  parurent  avant  1729;  Essay  on  the  Nature  and 
Conduct  of  the  Passions  and  Afections,  with  Illustrations  on  the  Moral 
Sense  (Londres,  1728),  dont  une  seconde  edition  parut  deja  en  1730;  puis 
System  of  Moral  Philosophy,  qui  ne  fut  publie  qu  'en  1755. 

A  Hutcheson  revient  le  merite  d 'avoir,  un  des  premiers,  fonde  la 
morale  et  la  philosophie  de  la  morale  "sur  1 'observation  exacte  des  dif- 
ferentes  facultes  et  des  differents  principes  d  'action  dont  nous  avons 
conscience  en  nous-memes,  et  que  nous  ne  pouvons  meconnaitre  a  des 
degres  divers,  dans  toute  l'espece  humaine"  (V.  Cousin,  Histoire  de  la 
philosophie  moderne,  IV,  p.  44). 

Si  le  philosophe  que  nous  venous  de  nommer  ne  fut  pas  transeendan- 
taliste  dans  le  sens  que  plus  tard  on  donna  a  ce  mot,  il  en  fut  certaine- 
ment  un  des  precurseurs  les  plus  authentiques,  et  certes,  nul  plus  que  lui 
ne  prepara  les  voies  qui  conduisirent  W.  E.  Charming  et  G.  Riley  au 
spiritualisme. 

Victor  Cousin  dut  beaucoup  a  l'auteur  de  Inquiry  into  the  Original  of  cm- 
Ideas  of  Beauty  and  Virtue,  ce  qu'il  ne  se  fit  jamais  faute  d'avouer  avec 
la  modestie  de  ceux  qui,  parce  qu 'ils  possedent  beaucoup,  ne  craignent 
jamais  qu'on  sache  ce  qu'ils  peuvent  devoir. 


464  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

losophiques,  "est  de  se  renfermer  dans  la  conscience."37  Ces 
phenomenes  de  la  conscience,  continue  le  meme  auteur,  sont 
ranges  en  trois  classes,  lesquelles  se  rattachent  a  trois  grandes 
facultes  elementaires,  qui  dans  leurs  combinaisons  comprennent 
et  expliquent  toutes  les  autres.  Ces  facultes  sont :  la  sensibilite, 
Tactivite  et  la  raison,  toutes  les  trois  ayant  dans  la  conscience 
leur  point  de  contact  et  leur  justification. 

Les  faits  sensibles  sont  necessaires:  nous  ne  nous  les  imputons  pas;  les 
faits  volontaires  sont  seuls  marques  du  caractere  d  'imputabilite  et  de 
personnalite.  Enfin,  nous  n'apercevons  et  ne  connaissons  que  par  une 
lumiere  qui  ne  vient  pas  de  nous:  toute  lumiere  vient  de  la  raison  qui 
aper§oit  et  elle-meme,  et  la  sensibilite  qui  l'enveloppe,  et  la  volonte 
qu'elle  oblige  sans  la  contraindre.  En  sorte  que  la  conscience  emprunte 
son  fondement  le  plus  immediat  de  la  raison,  sans  laquelle  il  n  'y  aurait 
aucune  connaissance  possible,  et  par  consequent  aucune  conscience.38 


La  raison,  impersonnelle  de  sa  nature,  a  pour  caractere  es- 
sentiel  l'universalite  et  la  necessite,  puisque  c'est  a  elle  que  nous 
devons  la  connaissance  des  verites  necessaires  et  universelles,  des 
principes  auxquels  nous  obeissons  tous  et  auxquels  nous  ne  pou- 
vons  pas  ne  pas  obeir. 

Or,  si  Victor  Cousin  ne  refuse  point  a  Aristote  le  merite 
d 'avoir  donne  de  ces  principes  une  complete  enumeration  dans 
ses  "categories,"  il  lui  reproche  d'en  avoir  fait  une  liste  arbi- 
trage qui  ne  repond  pas  au  developpment  de  rintelligence  ;39  s'il 
n 'ignore  pas  que  les  cartesiens — tels,  Arnauld,  Bossuet,  Fenelon 
et  Malebranche — ont  admis  a  leur  tour  1 'existence  de  verites  uni- 
verselles et  necessaires,  il  sait  aussi  qu'ils  n'ont  pas  davantage 
tente  de  les  classifier  et  de  les  coordonner ;  s'il  felicite  les  phi- 
losophes  ecossais  de  les  avoir  remises  en  honneur,  il  est  bien 
oblige  de  constater  qu'ils  n'en  ont  enumere  que  quelques-unes. 

Aussi  apres  avoir  emprunte  a  Hutcheson  la  premiere  concep- 
tion du  sens  moral  qu'il  avait  adoptee,  a,  Maine  de  Biran  la 
notion  qu'il  garda  toujours  des  phenomenes  de  la  volonte,   a. 


37  Fragments  philosophiques,  V,  p.  1. 
3«  Ibid.,  p.  8. 
39  Ibid.,  V,  p.  14. 


1916]  Crirard:  Thx  transcendantalismt  465 

Keid  et  a  Stewart  la  methode  experimentale  .lout  ils  s'etaienl 
servis  avec  taut  de  succes  dans  leur  refutation  de  Lock.'  e1  de 
Berkeley,  de  Hume  et  de  Priestley,  Victor  Cousin  ira  chercher 
en  Allemagne,  ou  il  les  empruntera  a  Kant  et  aux  hommes  de  son 
ecole,  les  materiaux  qui  lui  manquent  encore  pour  i 'edification 
de  sa  doctrine  philosophique.  Celle-ci,  eonnue,  comme  on  sait, 
sous  le  nom  d 'eclectisme,  designa  tout  d'abonl  une  doctrine 
destinee  a  grouper  dans  une  synthese  logiqu*-  ce  que  chaque 
systeme  peut  contenir  de  vrai,  puis  devint  de  plus  en  plus,  grace 
aux  changements  succesifs  que  lui  firent  subir  Cousin  et  Jouffroy, 
l'application  d'une  seule  et  merae  methode,  dite  psychologique  ou 
experimentale,  a  1 'etude  de  tous  les  problemes  de  la  philosophic. 

Quand  pour  la  premiere  fois  il  songea  a  s 'eloigner  pour  un 
temps  de  cette  ville  de  Paris  qu'il  n'avait  encore  jamais  quittee, 
c'est-a-dire  en  1817,  il  en  avait  assez — Cousin  nous  le  dit  lui- 
meme — de  la  philosophic  de  Reid  qui  lui  etait  aussi  familiere  que 
son  rudiment,  assez  aussi,  de  celle  de  Stewart,  "dont  il  eut  pu 
reciter  les  ouvrages. '  '40 

De  meme  que  nous  avons  tenu  a  dire  brievement  ce  que  Victor 
Cousin  dut  a  la  philosophie  ecossaise,  il  est  indispensable  que 
nous  considerions  pour  un  instant  ce  dont  il  est  redevable  a  la 
philosophie  allemande.  Cela  nous  permettra  de  mettre  mieux 
en  evidence  ce  que  les  transcendantalistes  peuvent  avoir  em- 
prunte  au  maitre  inconteste  de  Teclectisme  franeais  plutot 
qu'aux  philosophes  dont  il  se  fit  1'interprete  aupres  de  ses  au.li- 
teurs  de  la  Faculte  des  Lettres  de  Paris. 

(c)  Victor  Cousin  et  la  philosophie  allemande. — Le  suj.'t  an- 
nonce  dans  ce  dernier  chapitre  nous  retiendra  d'autant  moins 
longtemps  que  ce  que  les  transcendantalistes — a  l'exception  peut- 
etre  d 'Orestes  A.  Brownson— durent  a  Victor  Cousin,  derive 
davantage  de  ce  que  ce  dernier  emprunta  a  la  philosophie  ecos- 
saise et  possedait  en  commun  avec  J.  M.  de  Gerando  et  Theodore 
Jouffroy,  que  de  ce  qu'il  a  pu  devoir  a  Kant  ou  a  Sehelling. 

Ce  n 'etait  pas  assez  d 'avoir  constate  avec  Aristote,  ainsi 
qu'avec  les  disciples  de  Descartes,  l'existence  de  verites  aeces- 


■ioEistoire  de  la  philosophie  moderne,  IV,  p.  191. 


466  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

saires  et  universelles — rappelons  en  passant,  que  c'est  a  de  telles 
verites  que  Duns  Scot  et  les  hommes  de  son  temps,  appliquerent 
la  qualification  de  "transcendantales — ;"  ce  n 'etait  pas  assez  de 
s'etre  applique  a  analyser  quelques-unes  d'entre  elles,  conime 
l'avaient  fait  les  philosophes  ecossais,  il  fallait  encore  prouver 
qu 'elles  sont  absolues,  afin  de  pouvoir  ensuite  etablir  egalement 
que  leurs  consequences  sont  absolues.  Or,  c'est  a  cette  tache  que 
s 'applique  le  fanieux  professeur  de  l'universite  de  Kcenigsberg 
dans  son  incomparable  analyse  de  la  Critique  de  la  raison  pure, 
de  la  Critique  de  la  raison  pratique  et  de  la  Critique  du  juge- 
ment. 

Nous  sommes  d'autant  moins  enclin  a  conduire  le  lecteur  de 
ces  lignes  dans  les  regions  obscures  d'une  metaphysique  ou  Kant 
fut  peut-etre  seul  a  voir  elair,  conduit  qu'il  y  etait  a  la  lumiere 
de  son  genie,  que  ce  que  Victor  Cousin  peut  y  avoir  emprunte 
pour  l'elaboration  de  sa  theorie  de  la  connaissance,  n'interesse 
en  aucune  facon  le  transcendantalisme  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre. 

II  suffira  de  dire,  pour  le  sujet  qui  nous  occupe,  que  le  pbi- 
losophe  francais  ne  garda  guere  de  Kant  que  sa  conception  de  la 
liberte  morale.  En  effet,  a  l'instar  de  l'auteur  de  la  Critique  de 
la  raison  pratique.  Victor  Cousin  considere  la  liberte  comme  le 
principe  et  l'essence  de  la  personnalite;  le  "moi,"  fera-t-il  re- 
marquer, 

est  tout  entier  dans  la  liberte:  il  est  la  liberte  elle-meme.  Oil  il  y  a 
empire  de  soi,  possession  de  soi-meme,  il  y  a  moi  et  personne:  ou  il  n'y 
a  ni  l'un,  ni  1 'autre,  il  y  a  la  fatalite.  Les  actes  de  raison  et  de  sensa- 
tion peuvent  bien  toucher  au  centre  de  la  personnalite,  mais  ils  ne  la 
constituent  pas.     Ils  sont  ses  instruments  et  non  point  son  essence. 

Tandis  que  pour  Descartes  le  centre  de  la  personnalite  etait  dans 
la  pensee,  pour  Kant  et  pour  Cousin  il  est  dans  1 'obligation 
morale.  Otez  a  1  'homme  la  liberte,  il  vivra  comme  la  plante ;  il 
aura  bien  un  but,  mais  il  n'en  aura  pas  conscience,  il  y  sera  con- 
duit. En  quelque  position  qu'il  soit,  il  ''peut"  parce  qu'il 
"doit,"  et  il  "doit"  parce  qu'il  "peut."  Ce  qui  fait  done  sa 
grandeur,  ce  qui  constitue  le  fond  meme  de  sa  nature,  ce  n'est 
point  d'etre  capable  de  penser  ou  de  sentir,  c'est  d'etre  libre. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  167 

A  cela  ne  s'arretent  point  les  emprunts  que  Victor  Cousin  fit 
a  la  philosophic  allemande.  On  peut  bien  dire  qu'a  l'exception 
de  sa  methode  psych ologique  et  de  l'usage  qu'il  sait  en  faire,  a 
l'exception  peut-etre  aussi  de  la  conception  speciale  qu'il  s'est 
faite  de  la  raison,  ce  qu'il  ne  doit,  ni  aux  precurseurs  de  l'ecole 
eclectique,  ni  aux  philosophes  ecossais  (et  certes,  durant  toute 
la  seconde  periode  de  son  enseignement,  il  ne  lui  reste  plus  grand 
chose  de  cette  derniere)  il  le  doit  aux  idealistes  allemands. 

Si,  comme  nous  venons  de  le  voir,  Victor  Cousin  doit  a  Em- 
manuel Kant  sa  conception  philosophique  du  devoir  et  de  la 
liberte  morale,  il  doit  a  Schelling  celle  qu'il  se  fit  de  la  nature, 
a  Hegel  celle  qu'il  eut  de  l'histoire.  Ces  deux  dernieres  n'ayant 
aucun  rapport  avec  le  transcendantalisme,  il  ne  convient  pas  que 
nous  les  exposions  ou  les  discutions  ici.  Contentons-nous  de  dire, 
avec  l'auteur  des  Fragments  philosophiques,  que  si  "le  dernier 
mot  de  l'idealisme  de  Kant  avait  ete  le  systeme  de  Fichte,  et  le 
dernier  mot  du  systeme  de  Fichte  le  "moi"  pose  ou  plutot  se 
posant  lui-meme  comme  principe  unique,"41  Schelling  eut  le 
grand  merite  de  faire  sortir  la  philosophie  d'une  psychologie  a 
la  fois  idealiste  et  sceptique,  ainsi  que  de  l'abstraction  de  la 
pensee  pure,  pour  la  faire  reposer  sur  la  realite  du  monde  ex- 
terieur dont  l'existence  se  confond  en  quelque  sorte  avec  la 
notre,  puisqu'elle  pose  en  principe  l'identite  du  "moi"  et  du 
"non-moi."  L 'esprit  de  l'homme  doit  done  avoir  des  lois  aussi 
necessaires  que  celles  de  la  nature,  et  le  monde  de  l'humanite  est 
aussi  regulierement  fait  que  le  monde  exterieur.  Or,  le  monde 
de  l'humanite  se  manifeste  dans  l'histoire;  l'histoire  a  done  ses 
lois :  ' '  elle  forme  done  dans  ses  diveres  epoques  un  systeme  har- 
monieux,  comme  le  monde  exterieur  est  un  dans  la  diversite  de 
ses  phenomenes."    C'est  a  fixer  ces  lois  que  s'appliqua  Hegel. 

Quand  bien  meme  Cousin  dit  de  Schelling:  "son  systeme  est 
le  vrai,"  il  y  a  entre  la  doctrine  du  premier  et  celle  de  l'auteur 
de  la  Philosophie  de  la  nature  de  notables  differences.  Comme  le 
fait  remarquer  Cousin  lui-meme,  si  Schelling  parle  quelquefois 


Fragments  philosophiques,  p.  lxii,  lxiii. 


468  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

de  l'intuition  intellectuelle  comrne  du  procede  qui  saisit  l'etre 
lui-meme,  il  pretend  que  cette  intuition  ne  tombe  pas  dans  la 
conscience,  tandis  que  pour  lui  elle  est  un  fait  de  conscience  tout 
aussi  reel  que  celui  de  la  conception  reflechie.  En  outre,  tandis 
que  pour  Schelling  l'intuition  intellectuelle  appartient  a  une 
faculte  speciale,  pour  le  professeur  de  Paris  elle  n'est  qu'un 
degre  plus  eleve  de  la  raison.42 

A  dessein,  nous  nous  sommes  dispense  de  faire  intervenir  les 
noms  de  Fichte  et  de  Jacobi.  II  se  peut  toutefois  que  Cousin 
doive  au  premier  de  ces  philosophes,  autant  qu'a  Emmanuel 
Kant,  sa  doctrine  de  la  raison  impersonnelle,  si  difficile  a  saisir, 
et  dont  on  pourrait  facilement  signaler  plus  d'une  trace  dans 
plusieurs  essais  d 'Emerson.  S'il  est  a  peu  pres  certain  qu'il 
trouva  sur  sa  voie  Jacobi  chaque  fois  qu'il  s'appreta  a  com- 
battre  1  'orthodoxie  traditionnelle,  nous  ne  pensons  pas  qu'il  ait 
mis  a  contribution  rien  de  sa  philosophic  qui  vaille  la  peine 
d'etre  recherche.  En  opposition  a  1'" intellectualisme "  froid 
ainsi  qu'au  rigorisme  extreme  de  la  morale  de  Kant,  Jacobi 
s'etait  applique  a  elever  la  foi  au-dessus  de  la  raison,  faisant 
de  l'enthousiasme,  qui  n'est  autre  chose  que  l'intuition 
spontanee  de  la  verite,  intuition  plus  sure  et  non  moins  reelle 
que  la  reflexion — nous  nous  placons  ici  au  point  de  vue  du  phi- 
losophe  allemand — une  des  sources  les  plus  legitimes  de  la  foi. 
Victor  Cousin,  beaucoup  plus  "  intellectualiste "  que  Jacobi  et 
ramenant  tout  a  la  raison,  veut  que  cet  enthousiasme  ou  cette  foi 
n'en  soit  en  somme  qu'une  application  plus  pure  et  plus  haute, 
pensant  assurer  de  cette  facon  a  la  religion  un  fondement  plus 
scientifique,  et  l'empecher  de  degenerer  en  mysticisme. 


42  C 'est  bien  en  vain  que  nous  tenterions  avec  nos  faibles  moyens  de 
mettre  d 'accord  nos  deux  philosophes.  Schelling  lui-meme  declare  ne 
rien  comprendre  a  la  methode  psychologique  de  son  collegue  frane,ais;  ce 
dernier,  encore  une  fois,  tout  en  acceptant  les  conclusions  auxquelles 
aboutit  le  systeme  de  son  collegue  de  Munich,  ne  veut  rien  entendre  de 
la  methode  dont  il  se  sert  pour  arriver  a  ses  fins. 

Schelling,  comme  on  sait,  porta  le  plus  grand  interet  a  l'eclectisme 
franqais,  et  eerivit  lui-meme  la  preface  dont  H.  Bekkers  fit  accompagner 
son  ouvrage  sur  Victor  Cousin:  Veber  franzosische  unci  deutsche  Philosophic 
(Stuttgart  und  Tiibingen,  1834).  Cette  preface  eut  le  plus  grand  succes. 
II  en  existe  trois  editions  franchises,  publiees  avant  1824  (Voir  pour  plus 
de  details  Fragments  philosophiques,  p.  lxxxi). 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  469 

Maintenant,  resumant  tout  a  la  fois  ce  quo  nous  avons  -lit 
des  emprunts  faits  par  Cousin,  d'une  part  a  la  philosophic  gcos- 
saise,  d'autre  part  a  la  philosophie  allemande,  nous  pouvona  dire 
qu'il  emprunta  aux  uns  ce  qu'il  ne  devait  pas  aux  autres,*8 
lorsqu'il  elabora  cette  doctrine  philosophique  qu'il  appela 
eclectisnie.  Ce  qui  lui  est  propre,  ce  qu'on  ehercherail  eD  vain 
chez  les  auteurs  qu'il  a  consulted  on  chez  les  professeurs  qu'il  a 
entendus,  c'est  sa  methode  psychologique,  qui  etait  l'application 
plus  rigoureusement  scientifique  a  l'etude  des  phenomenes  de 
1 'intelligence  et  de  la  sensibilite  de  la  methode  experimentale  a 
laquelle  l'avaient  initie  Hutcheson  et  Thomas  Reid.  (V  qui, 
egalement,  n'appartient  qu'a  lui,  c'est  sa  conception  de  la  raison. 
Pour  Victor  Cousin,  en  effet,  la  raison  est  autre  chose  (pic  <•<• 
qu 'Emmanuel  Kant  designe  sous  le  nom  de  raison  pure,  autre 
chose  aussi,  nous  1 'avons  vu  tout  a  l'heure,  que  1 'intuition  pure- 
ment  intellectuelle  derivee  du  cartesianisme,  et  dont  les  philoso- 
phes  allemands  firent  une  nouvelle  application. 

S'il  en  est  bien  ainsi,  quelle  fut  la  nature  de  l'influence 
exercee  par  Victor  Cousin  sur  les  transcendantalistes,  quels 
furent  les  elements  de  l'eclectisme  francais  qui  contribuerent  a  la 
formation,  dans  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre,  du  mouvement  do  pensee 
religieuse  et  philosophique  que  nous  etudions?     Telles  sont  los 


43  Victor  Cousin,  comme  nous  le  faisions  deja  remarquer  ailleurs,  fut 
toujours  prompt  a  reeonnaitre  les  emprunts  qu'il  fit  aux  philosophes  que 
nous  avons  cites.  Au  reproehe  que  lui  avait  adresse  William  Hamilton, 
le  fameux  critique  anglais,  de  n 'avoir  rien  ecrit  qu'on  n'eut  pu  lire  ehez 
d 'autres  auteurs,  le  professeur  de  l'Universite  de  Paris  avait  repondu 
avec  une  modestie  qui  montre  bien  que  son  caractere  etait  a  la  hauteur 
de  son  talent:  "  Ou  ces  messieurs  ont-ils  vu  que  je  pretends  a  1'originaKtel 
Dans  la  Eepublique,  le  sophiste  Thrasymaque  faisant  a  Son  ate  a  peu 
pres  le  meme  reproehe,  Socrate  lui  repondit:  '  Tu  as  raison,  Thrasymaque, 
de  dire  que  je  vais  de  tous  cotes,  apprenant  des  autres;  ma  is  tu  as  tort 
d'ajouter  que  je  ne  leur  en  sais  aucun  gre:  au  contraire,  je  leur  temoigne 
ma  reconnaissance  autant  qu'il  est  en  moi'.  Ici  Socrates,  c'est  Platon  lui 
meme,  c'est  Aristote,  c'est  Leibnitz,  c'est  quiconque  a  eu  le  honheur  de 
naitre  avec  une  ame  uu  peu  elevee,  un  esprit  de  quelque  eteinluc.  El  moi 
aussi,  j'ai  toujours  remercie  la  Providence  de  m  'avoir  fait  naitre  dans 
un  temps  ou  j'ai  rencontre  tant  de  sources  d 'instruction,  taut  de  livres 
et  tant  d'hommes  dont  le  commerce  m'a  ete  utile.  Loin  de  pr&endre  que 
je  n'ai  pas  eu  de  maitres,  j 'avoue  que  j 'en  ai  eu  beaucoup,  et  dans  Le 
passe  et  dans  le  present,  et  en  France  et  hors  de  la  Trance"  (Fragments 
2)hilosophiques,  pp.  lix-lx). 


470  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology      [Vol.  4 

deux  questions  auxquelles  nous  avons  a  repondre  dans  le 
chapitre  qui  va  nous  occuper. 

(d)  Victor  Cousin  et  les  transcendantalistes. — Au  moment 
d'aborder  cette  partie  du  probleme  des  origines  franchises  du 
transcendantalisme  que  nous  venons  d'indiquer,  et  cela  pour  ne 
point  courir  le  risque  de  nous  aventurer  en  des  regions  ou  il  n'y 
a  rien  a,  decouvrir  en  faveur  des  conclusions  vers  lesquelles  nous 
conduiront  peu  a  pen  notre  exposition  et  notre  argumentation, 
il  importe  de  se  rappeler,  une  fois  de  plus,  que  ceux  des  uni- 
taires  liberaux  dont  nous  nous  occupons  n'etaient  point  des  phi- 
losophes  dans  le  sens  qu'on  est  convenu  d'attacher  a  ce  mot, 
c'est-a-dire  dans  le  sens  Oil  l'etaient  un  Reid,  un  Kant  ou  un 
Victor  Cousin;  qu'ils  ne  portaient  mil  interet  aux  speculations 
de  pure  metaphysique ;  et  surtout,  qu'ils  n'etaient  qu'a  la  re- 
cherche d 'arguments  destines  a  reconeilier  la  foi  et  la  raison,  la 
religion  et  la  science,  l'evangile  et  la  vie.  On  peut  s'attendre 
done  a  ce  qu'ils  empruntent  a  l'auteur  des  Fragments  philoso- 
phiques,  non  point  sa  methode  psychologique,  encore  moins  la 
conception  extraordinairement  difficile  qu'il  exposa  de  la  raison, 
mais  bien  plutot  des  arguments  destines  a  combattre  le  principe 
d'autorite  de  l'ecole  theologique,  le  scepticisme  issu  du  sen- 
sualisme  de  Locke  et  l'utilitarisme  de  certains  de  leurs  freres 
unitaires. 

Les  idees  et  les  arguments  auxquels  il  s'arreteront  quand  ils 
liront  Victor  Cousin  differeront  en  somme  peu  de  ceux  qu'ils 
avaient  decouvert  soit  dans  Mme.  de  Stael  et  Benjamin  Constant, 
soit  dans  J.  M.  de  Gerando,  voire  occasionnellement  chez  ceux  des 
precurseurs  de  l'eclectisme  francais  que  nous  avons  mentionnes. 
Seulement,  ils  les  trouveront  chez  le  maitre  inconteste  de  cette 
nouvelle  philosophic,  plus  fermes,  mieux  definis,  plus  scien- 
tifiquement  exposes,  et  ils  se  rejouiront  qu'un  savant  et  un  phi- 
losophe  tel  que  le  fameux  professeur  de  1  'Universite  de  Paris  ait 
consacre  le  meilleur  de  son  intelligence  et  de  son  eloquence,  a. 
defendre  la  religion  au  nom  meme  de  la  science,  et  d 'avoir,  a 
l'instar  de  ceux  qui  avaient  prepare  les  voies  dans  lesquelles  il 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  471 

marcha  a  son  tour,  rehabilite  toutes  les  prerogatives  de  la  nature 
humaine,  an  nom  de  la  religion. 

L 'attention  du  public  lettre  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  se 
porta,  probablement  pour  la  premiere  fois,  sur  les  ecrits  de  Vic- 
tor Cousin,  lorsqu'en  1829  Sir  William  Hamilton  fit  paraitre 
dans  1' Edinburgh  Review"  un  important  article  sur  l'eclectisme 
francais.  Le  celebre  critique  anglais,  tout  en  rendant  hommage 
a  1  'erudition  du  prof esseur  de  la  Faculte  des  Lettres  de  Paris,  et 
s'etant  apercu  des  emprunts  que  celui-ci  avait  faits  aux  phi- 
losopher ecossais  ainsi  qu'aux  idealistes  allemands,45  s'etait  ap- 
plique— et,  certes,  il  le  fit  avec  une  sagacite  d 'analyse  remar- 
quable — a  etablir  les  differences  qu'on  pouvait  signaler  entre  les 
doctrines  de  1'auteur  des  Fragments  philosophiques,  et  celles 
qu'on  pouvait  tirer,  soit  des  ouvrages  de  Hutcheson,  de  Reid  et 
de  Stewart,  soit  de  ceux  de  Kant,  de  Schelling  et  de  Hegel. 

Au  courant  de  cette  meme  annee  1829,  Alexandre  H.  Everett 
introduisit  l'eclectisme  francais  aupres  des  lecteurs  de  la  North 
American  Review*6  dont  il  venait  de  se  faire  l'editeur,  en 
publiant  un  compte  rendu  de  la  fameuse  preface  dont  Cousin 


44  Cf .  No.  99. 

45  Ici  encore  Victor  Cousin,  repondant  aux  reproches  que  lui  adressait 
Hamilton  d 'avoir  mis  e  contribution  les  ouvrages  de  Schelling  et  de 
Hegel,  n'hesita  pas  a  reconnaitre  qu'il  devait  beaucoup  a,  ces  deux  philoso- 
phes:  "Hegel  a  beaucoup  emprunte  a  Schelling,"  dit  Victor  Cousin; 
"moi, "  continue-t-il,  "j'ai  emprunte  a  tous  les  deux.  II  y  a  de  la  folic 
a  me  le  reprocher,  et  il  n  'y  a  pas  a,  moi  grande  humilite  a  le  reconnaitre. 
II  y  a  plus  de  douze  ans,  en  dediant  a  Schelling  et  a  Hegel  mon  edition  des 
Conimentaires  de  Proclus  sur  le  Parmenide,  je  les  appelais  publiquement 
tous  les  deux  'mes  amis  et  mes  maitres.'  II  m'est  doux  de  renouveler 
aujourd'hui  cet  hommage.  .  .  .  Grace  a  Dieu,  je  n'ai  pas  l'ame  faite  de 
maniere  a  etre  embarrasse  de  la  reconnaissance"  (Fragments  philoso- 
phiques, p.  lxiv). 

46  No.  64,  July,  1829.  Une  traduction  de  cette  meme  preface  avait 
deja  paru  en  Allemagne  en  1827,  dans  Religion  und  Philosophie  in  Frank- 
reich.  von  F.  W.  Carove,  Dr.  der  Philosophie.  Nous  nous  serions  dis- 
pense de  la  mentionner  ici  s'il  n'en  avait  paru  a  la  meme  epoque  un 
compte  rendu  dans  le  Globe  (il  s'agit  du  premier  Globe  qui  vit  le  jour 
a  Paris,  en  1824,  et  cessa  d'exister  en  1830),  journal  qui  avait  en  Aint'- 
rique  de  nombreux  lecteurs. 

Au  cours  de  cette  meme  annee  (1829)  parut  dans  la  North  American 
Review  (voir  vol.  29,  p.  67)  un  compte  rendu  des  principaux  ouvrages  de 
Victor  Cousin,  parus  a  cette  date:  (Euvres  de  Platon,  volumes  1-5,  Paris, 
1822-1828;  Fragments  philosophiques,  1826;  Cours  de  philosophie,  1826; 
Nouveaux  fragments  philosophiques,  1828. 


472  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

avait  fait  preceder  sa  premiere  edition  des  Fragments  philoso- 
phiques. 

Plus  importante  pour  la  diffusion  des  idees  philosophiques  de 
Victor  Cousin  dans  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  fut  1 'apparition,  en 
1832,  de  la  traduction  que  fit  H.  G.  Linberg  de  V Introduction  a 
I'histoire  de  la  philosophies1  traduction  dont  la  revue  que  nous 
venons  de  mentionner  publia  line  sorte  d'abrege  accompagne  de 
remarques  fort  elogieuses,  bien  faites  pour  recommander  la  lec- 
ture et  les  conclusions  de  l'ouvrage  du  professeur  franeais.  Ce 
que  l'auteur  de  Particle  auquel  nous  faisons  ici  allusion  s 'ap- 
plique essentiellement  a  relever,  c'est  le  caractere  foncierement 
spiritualiste  de  la  philosophic  de  Victor  Cousin,  la  synthese 
grandiose  dans  laquelle  elle  concoit  Dieu,  la  nature  et  rhomme, 
les  notions  tres  elevees  qu'elle  expose  de  la  foi  et  du  sentiment 
moral.  II  lui  sait  gre  d 'avoir  place  la  foi  plus  haut  que  les  sym- 
boles  et  d 'avoir  bien  montre  qu'elle  a  meme  dans  la  raison  sa 
justification. 

Qu'on  veuille  done  bien  le  remarquer:  quand  pour  la  pre- 
miere fois  parut  en  Amerique  une  traduction  partielle  des  cours 
faits  par  Victor  Cousin  a  la  Faculte  des  Lettres  de  Paris,  de  1828 
a  1829,  ce  qui  retint  1 'attention,  ce  fut  le  caractere  essentielle- 
ment spiritualiste  de  la  philosophic  dont  ils  etaient  1 'expression, 
et  ce  qu'on  y  examina  avec  le  plus  de  soin,  ce  furent  des  argu- 
ments destines  a  montrer  que  la  philosophic,  non  seulement  ne 
s 'oppose  point  a  la  religion,  mais  au  contraire  l'explique  et  la 
justifie.48 

Rien  ne  prouve  mieux  la  popularity  dont  jouit  en  Amerique, 
des  son  apparition,  l'eclectisme  frangais  que  la  publication,  en 


47  Introduction  to  the  History  of  Philosophy,  translated  by  H.  G.  Lin- 
berg, Boston,  1832. 

48"Sceur  de  la  religion,"  ecrivait  l'auteur  de  1  'Introduction  a  I'histoire 
de  la  philosophie,  "la  philosophie  puise  dans  un  commerce  intime  avec  elle 
des  inspirations  puissantes,  elle  met  a  profit  ses  grands  enseignements; 
elle  voudrait  l'entourer  du  respect  universel,  loin  de  la  combattre  au 
besoin  elle  la  defendrait;  .  .  .  elle  s'efforce  de  comprendre  la  religion, 
elle  eonvertit  les  saintes  verites  qui  lui  sont  offertes  dans  sa  propre  subs- 
tance, dans  sa  propre  forme;  elle  ne  detruit  point  la  foi,  elle  l'eclaire  et 
la  feconde,  et  l'eleve  doucement  du  demi-jour  du  symbole  a  la  grande 
lumiere  de  la  pensee  pure"  (Introd.  a  1'hist.  de  la  philosophie,  p.  19) — Voir 
egalement  page  x  de  ce  dernier  ouvrage,  ou  V.  Cousin  rappelle  les  raisons 
pour  lesquelles  son  Introduction  fut  recue  avec  faveur  aux  Etats-Unis. 


1916]  Girard:  Ihi  transcendantalismt  -17;; 

1834,  d'une  nouvelle  traduction  de  l'ouvrage  que  Linberg  avail 
fait  connaitre  sous  le  titre  que  nous  avons  dit,  traduction  que  son 
auteur,  C.  S.  Henry,  fit  preceder  d'une  importante  introduction, 
accompagna  de  notes  et  d 'additions,  et  qui,  en  1842,  avail  deja 
atteint  sa  troisieme  edition.40 

En  1836  et  1837,  Orestes  A.  Brownson  se  fit  le  defenseur  dea 
idees  philosophiques  de  V.  Cousin  dans  plusieurs  articles  qu'il 
confia  d'abord  au  Christian  Examiner,  et  qu'il  reproduisil  en- 
suite  dans  la  revue  qu'il  fonda  lui-meme  et  fut  seul  a  diriger, 
nous  voulons  dire  la  Boston  Quarterly  Review.50  C'est  en  1833 
que  pour  la  premiere  fois  Brownson  fut  mis  en  contact  avec  la 
philosophic  de  Cousin.  Preoccupe  qu'il  etait  de  la  recherche 
d'une  doctrine  capable  de  concilier  le  catholicisme  et  le  pro- 
testantisme,  la  religion  et  la  science,  la  raison  et  la  foi;  con- 
vaincu  qu'il  etait,  comme  beaucoup  d 'homines  de  son  temps,  que 
la  religion  n'est  que  1 'expression  des  besoins  les  plus  eternelle- 
ment  vrais  de  la  nature  humaine,  il  crut  pour  un  instant  avoir 
decouvert  chez  les  spiritualistes  francais  tous  les  elements  neces- 
saires  a  l'elaboration  de  la  philosophic  qu'il  cherchait. 

Dans  le  modeste  ouvrage  qu'en  1836  il  publia  sous  le  titre  de 
New  Views  of  Christianity,  Society  and  the  Church,  il  declare  en 
effet  qu'il  doit  aux  spiritualistes  francais,  a  Victor  Cousin  en 
particulier,  la  doctrine  qu'il  y  expose.  A  l'instar  de  tous  les 
homines  de  son  temps,  comme  il  nous  en  informe  lui-meme, 
Brownson  avait  ete  instruit  a  l'ecole  de  Locke,  qu'il  avait  tot 

«  Voir  titre  de  cet  ouvrage,  p.  384.  Des  Elements  of  Psychology,  publics 
pour  la  premiere  fois  par  C.  S.  Henry,  en  1834,  on  sortit  un  traits  de 
philosophic  qui  servait  encore  de  "text-book"  en  1861,  dans  la  plupart 
des  universites  americanes.  Voir  sur  le  meme  sujet:  Quarterly  Christian 
Spectator,  VII,  p.  89;  G.  Bancroft,  History  of  the  United  Stairs.  Introduc- 
tion, Chapter  XVI. 

bo  '  <  Cousin  's  Philosophy, ' '  Christian  Examiner,  September,  1836.  ' '  Re- 
cent Contributions  to  Philosophy,"  ibid.,  May,  1837. 

Voir  egalement  Brownson 's  Works,  II,  p.  356;  "Philosophy  and  Com- 
mon Sense,"  reponse  a  un  article  du  Christian  Examiner   (1837,   p.   -11 
212),  sur  "Locke  and  transcendentalism." 

Victor  Cousin  rendit  hommage  dans  les  termes  qui  suivent  aux  art] 
cles  que  Brownson  fit  paraitre  en  faveur  de  l'eeleetisme:  "  M.  Brownson  a 
publie  une  apologie  de  mes  principes,  ou  brille  un  talent  de  ihukcc  el  de 
stvle  qui,  regulierement  developpe,  promet  a  l'Amerique  un  gcrivain 
pliilosophique  de  premier  ordre"  (Fragments  philosophiques,  p.  83). 


474  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology      [Vol.4 

quittee  pour  eelle  de  Reid  et  de  Stewart.  Puis,  lorsque  l'une  et 
l'autre  perdirent  de  leur  popularity  abandonnees  qu'elles 
etaient  par  uu  grand  nombre  pour  Tecole  de  Thomas  Brown, 
il  avait  ete  pour  un  temps  gagne  au  scepticisme.  Enfin,  au 
moment  meme  ou  il  avait  songe  a  se  joindre  aux  disciples  de 
Francis  Wright,  il  s'etait  ravise  et  s'etait  fait  une  sorte  de  phi- 
losophic sentimentale  dont  il  avait  goute  le  charme  a  la  lecture 
des  ceuvres  de  Bernardin  de  Saint  Pierre,  de  Benjamin  Con- 
stant et  de  Chateaubriand. 

Tel  etait  l'etat  d'ame  du  futur  fondateur  de  la  Boston  Quar- 
terly Review  lorsqu'en  1833,  comme  nous  l'avons  rappele,  il  fut 
mis  en  contact  avec  la  philosophic  du  maitre  inconteste  de 
l'eclectisme  francais.  II  ne  mit  pas  longtemps  a  en  partager  les 
conclusions  puisqu'en  1836  il  faisait  deja  paraitre  l'ouvrage  que 
nous  avons  cite.  En  1837,  dans  l'article  important  qu'il  ecrivit 
sur  la  philosophic  de  V.  Cousin,51  il  faisait  remarquer  qu'elle 
avait  attire  dans  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  une  attention  conside- 
rable et  se  rejouissait  de  toute  l'innuence  qu'elle  y  exereait  sur 
la  pensee  philosophique.  II  vent  meme  que  le  tribut  de  recon- 
naissance qu'il  adresse  a  l'auteur  de  Vlntroduction  a  Vhistoire 
de  la  philosophic  et  des  Fragments  philosophique s,  aille  aussi  a 
la  France. 

She  exerts  [dit  Brownson,  faisant  allusion  a  ce  dernier  pays]  and  must 
continue  to  exert,  a  powerful  influence  on  all  southern  and  western 
Europe,  and  on  our  own  country  in  particular.  She  is,  as  it  were,  the 
missionary  nation  of  the  world,  and  it  is  not  a  matter  of  indifference  to 
other  nations  whether  she  preaches  the  true  gospel  or  another.  Her 
doctrines  have  immense  weight  in  England;  they  reign  supreme  in  this 
country;  Germany  reaches  us  only  through  France.52 

Nous  n'entrerons  pas  ici  dans  le  detail  d"une  discussion  des- 
tinee  a  etablir  quels  sont  les  elements  de  la  philosophic  de  Victor 
Cousin  que  Ton  peut  retrouver  dans  eelle  de  Brownson,  quels 
sont  ceux  qui  lui  sont  etrangers.    II  suffit  que  nous  sachions  que 


si  Christian  Examiner,  XXI,  pp.  33-64. 

52  Brownson 's  Works,  VI,  pp.  271-272;  voir  aussi  Christian  Examiner. 
XXI,  p.  35. 


1916]  Girard:  Dutranscendantalisme  i:;, 

durant  tout  cette  partie  de  sa  vie  ou  il  partagea  les  convictions 
des  transcendantalistes,  l'auteur  de  New  Views  on  Christianity, 
Society  and  the  Church  s'avoua  le  disciple  du  celebre  professeur 
de  la  Faculte  des  Lettres  de  Paris,  pour  que  nous  ayons  le  droit 
de  conclure  que  celui-ci  ne  fut  pas  sans  exercer  sur  celui-lil  one 
reelle  influence.  II  en  fut,  en  somme,  pour  Brownson,  com  me 
il  en  avait  ete  pour  H.  C.  Linberg  and  C.  S.  Henry,  et  comme  il 
en  fut  certainement  pour  tous  ceux  qui  de  leur  temps  partagerenl 
les  idees  et  les  aspirations  des  transcendantalistes,  e'est-a-dire 
que  ce  qui  lui  rendit  la  doctrine  de  Cousin  si  attrayante,  si 
sympathique,  si  digne  d'etre  etudiee  avec  soin,  ce  fut  son  car- 
actere  foncierement  religieux  et  chretien. 

Nous  avons  une  autre  preuve  de  ce  que  nous  venons  de  repeter 
ici,  dans  ce  passage  de  Vavertissement  ajoute  a  la  3me  edition 
des  Fragments  philosophiques:  "Pendant  que  mes  ecrits  sur 
1 'education,"53  ainsi  s'exprime  Cousin,  "grace  a  la  belle  traduc- 
tion de  Madame  Austin,  se  repandaient  dans  la  plupart  des  Etats 
de  l'Union  americaine,  quelquefois  meme  sous  les  auspices  de 
l'autorite  publique" — Victor  Cousin  avait  recu  le  titre  de  membre 
etranger  de  l'lnstitut  americain — "les  Fragments  joints  a  mes 
Cours  fondaient  a  mon  insu  une  ecole  philosophique  dans  la 
patrie  de  Jonathan  Edwards  et  de  Franklin.  Mais  savez-vous," 
continue  le  meme  auteur,  "ce  qui  accredite  la  nouvelle  philoso- 
phie  francaise  a  New  York  et  a  Boston,  c'est,  avec  son  caractere 
moral  et  religieux,  sa  methode. '  '54 

Les  derniers  termes  de  ce  passage  caracterisent  fort  bien  la 
nature  de  rinfluence  qu'exerca  sur  Brownson  la  doctrine  de 
Cousin,  et  prouvent  une  fois  de  plus  que  de  quelque  fagon  que 
nous  abordions  1 'etude  du  transcendantalisme  nous  retrouvons 
tou jours  les  inspirateurs  de  ce  mouvement  oceupes  a  combattre 
la  theologie  orthodoxe  traditionnelle,  le  sensualisme  de  Locke 
dont  elle  s'etayait  et  le  scepticisme  de  Hume  sorti  de  cette  der- 


ss  Allusion  faite  ici  au  Eeport  on  the  State  of  Public  Instruction,  trans- 
lated from  the  French  of  V.  Cousin,  by  S.  Austin  (London,  1834),  ouvrage 
plusieurs  fois  reimprime  aux  Etats-Unis. 

5+  Fragments  philosophiques,  pp.  82-83. 


476  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology      [Vol.  4 

niere  doctrine.  Brownson,  en  effet,  ne  mit  jamais  plus  a,  contri- 
bution la  doctrine  le  l'auteur  des  Fragments  philosophiques  que 
lorsque  dans  son  essai  intitule  Philosophy  and  Common  sense  il 
s'appliqua  a  ref liter  les  conclusions  de  1 'article  que  le  Christian 
Examiner  avait  fait  paraitre  sur  "Locke  and  transcendental- 
ism,"53 conclusions  destinees  a  defendre  tout  a  fois  les  idees  theo- 
logiques  et  la  philosophic  de  l'auteur  de  1' Essay  on  the  Human 
Understanding. 

Si  maintenant  nous  voulons  bien  admettre  que  dans  ses  ten- 
tatives  de  creer  un  systeme  philosophique  de  toutes  pieces  capable 
d'expliquer  Dieu,  l'homme  et  la  nature,  et  de  reconcilier  la  re- 
ligion, la  science,  et  la  vie,  Brownson  se  servit  de  la  methode  pre- 
conisee  par  le  chef  de  l'ecole  eclectique,  nous  demeurons  cepen- 
dant  bien  assure  que  parmi  les  transcendantalistes  il  fut  seul 
a  comprendre  dans  toute  sa  complexite  cette  methode  psycholo- 
gique  sur  le  sens  et  la  portee  de  laquelle  de  plus  capables  que  lui, 
un  Schelling,  un  Hegel  par  exemple,  ne  parvinrent  jamais  a  se 
mettre  d 'accord. 

Si  les  trois  interpretes  de  la  pensee  philosophique  de  Cousin, 
que  nous  avons  cites,  contribuerent  pour  une  large  part  a  la 
diffusion  dans  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  des  idees  spiritualistes  des 
eclectiques  francais,  il  en  fut  de  meme,  et  peut-etre  davantage  en- 
core, des  deux  premiers  volumes  de  la  collection  que  George 
Ripley  fit  paraitre  en  1838,  sous  le  titre  de  Specimens  of  Foreign 
Standard  Literature,  et  dont  tons  les  extraits  avaient  ete  tires 
des  ouvrages  de  Cousin,  de  Jouffroy  et  de  Benjamin  Constant. 

Apres  avoir  expose  longuement,  dans  une  "Introduction"  de 
plus  de  cinquante  pages,  les  merites  de  la  philosophic  du  celebre 
professeur  de  Paris,  Georges  Ripley  introduisit  successivement 
dans  son  ouvrage  la  preface  dont  Cousin  avait  fait  preceder  sa 
traduction  du  Manuel  de  Vhistoire  de  la  philosophic,  par  "W.  G. 
Tennemann  ;58  un  expose  de  l'eclectisme  tel  qu'il  etait  apparu 


55  Voir  note  51,  p.  474. 

se  Grundriss  der  Geschiehte  der  Philosophic,  Marburg,  1812.  Ouvrage 
plusieurs  fois  edite  et  dont  A.  Johnson  fit  paraitre  a  Oxford,  en  1832,  une 
traduction  anglaise.  La  traduction  de  ce  traite  faite  par  Victor  Cousin 
parut  en  premiere  edition  en  1829,  en  deuxieme  edition  en  1839. 

Les  deux  grands  ouvrages  de  W.  G.  Tannemann,  Geschiehte  der  Philo- 


1916]  Girard:  Bu  transcendantalismt  477 

dans  la  preface  de  la  seconde  edition  des  Fragments  philoso- 
phiques;  puis  differentes  lecons  dn  meme  auteur  sur  La  lai  morah 
et  la  liberie,  sur  L'Idee  de  cause  et  cellt  <h  I'infini,  sur  La  re- 
ligion, le  mysticisme  et  le  sto'icismc. 

Comme  nous  avons  pu  deja  nous  en  rendre  eompte  au  coura 
de  ce  chapitre,  au  moment  on  paruvent  les  deux  premiers  volumes 
de  la  collection  que  nous  avons  citee,  les  idees  de  Cousin  sur  la 
religion,  la  morale  et  la  philosophic  avaient  deja  gain  de  cause 
aupres  d  un  tres  grand  nombre  d  'esprits  liberaux  parmi  les  uni- 
taires  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre.  Nous  en  avons  une  nouvelle 
preuve  dans  certaines  remarques  que  nous  pouvons  relever  tout 
au  long  de  Tintroduction  dont  G.  Ripley  fit  preceder  les  extraits 
que  nous  avons  mentionnes.  "The  prefaces  in  particular,"  ecrit 
1 'auteur  des  Specimens,  "have  excited  an  extraordinary  interest 
among  the  philosophical  readers  of  Europe ;  and  it  is  not  too 
much  to  hope  that  they  may  be  made  the  subject  of  an  earnest 
enlightened  study  by  the  reflective  lovers  of  truth  in  our  own 
country. ' ' 

Puis,  faisant  allusion  aux  deux  traductions  de  Linberg  et  de 
C.  S.  Henry  dont  nous  avons  parle,  il  pouvait  ajouter: 

The  philosophical  merits  of  Cousin  will  probably  not  be  new  to  the 
majority  of  the  readers  of  these  volumes.  The  translations  which  have 
been  already  made  of  two  of  his  most  important  works  have  contributed 
to  give  currency  to  his  ideas  and  in  many  cases  to  awaken  a  lively  zeal 
for  the  study  of  the  original  Introduction  to  the  History  of  Philosophy. 
I  may  venture  to  say  that  there  is  no  living  philosopher  who  has  a  greater 
number  of  readers  in  this  country,  and  none  whose  works  have  met  with 
a  more  genuine  sympathy,  a  more  cordial  recognition.  He  is  destined,  in 
my  opinion,  to  exert  an  important  influence  on  the  development  of 
thought  in  our  youthful  land.57 

Si  nous  sommes  assure  de  l'interet  que  porterent  les  trans- 
cendantalistes  aux  ecrits  de  Victor  Cousin,  nous  le  sommes  aussi, 
et  cela  pour  les  raisons  que  nous  avons  dites  aillcurs,  autant  que 


sophie  (11  vol.,  1789-1819)  et  System  der  Platonischen  Philosophu    (4  vol.. 
1792-1794)  furent  d'un  grand  secours  a  Victor  Cousin  pour  la  publication 
de  son  edition  des  CEuvres  de  Proclus  (6  vol.,  1820-1827)  ainsi  que  pour  sa 
fameuse  traduction  des  CEuvres  de  Platon   (13  vol.,  1825-1840). 
st  Specimens  of  Foreign  Standard  Literature,  I,  pp.  28-29. 


478  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

pour  celles  que  nous  allons  encore  a j outer,  que  si  G.  Ripley,  qui 
fut  avee  W.  E.  Channing  Tame  meme  du  transcendantalisme,  ap- 
precia  si  fort  l'eclectisme  francais,  l'eleva  au-dessus  de  tous 
autres  systemes  de  philosophie,  et  lui  predit  de  si  belles  destinees, 
ce  ne  fut  point  parce  qu'il  preconisait  une  nouvelle  methode  de 
traiter  toutes  questions  se  rattachant  a  la  philosophie,  pas 
davantage  parce  qu'il  exposait  une  conception  nouvelle  et  fort 
originate  de  la  raison,  mais  uniquement  parce  qu'il  s'attaquait 
au  dogmatisnie  de  la  theologie  traditionnelle,  ainsi  qu'au  scepti- 
cisme  issu  du  sensualisme  de  Locke,  avee  des  armes  qu'ils  juge- 
rent  raeilleures  que  celles  dont  s'etaient  servis  les  philosophes 
ecossais  dans  leur  lutte  contre  les  memes  adversaires. 

C'est  parce  qu'a  l'instar  de  Reid  et  de  Stewart,  de  Kant  et 
des  homines  de  son  ecole,  Victor  Cousin  s'etait  applique  a  fonder 
la  religion  sur  un  fait  de  conscience  et  non  point  sur  un  docu- 
ment ecrit,  quelque  respectable  qu'il  ait  pu  etre;  parce  qu'il  en 
justifiait  1 'existence  au  nom  meme  de  la  raison;  parce  qu'il 
voulait  qu'avec  la  philosophie  pour  flambeau  la  religion  fut  des- 
tinee  a,  conduire  l'homme  vers  les  fins  eleves  et  dernieres  que  Dieu 
lui  a  marquee,  que  la  philosophie  spiritualiste  dont  Cousin  se  fit 
l'apotre  eclaire  trouva  aupres  des  representants  les  plus  au- 
thentiques  du  transcendantalisme,  aupres  d'un  Channing  et  d'un 
Ripley,  aupres  d'un  Brownson  et  d'un  Parker,  un  accueil  si  em- 
presse  et  si  enthousiaste. 

Comme  le  faisait  remarquer  Ripley  lui-meme,  ce  que  les 
transcendantalistes  emprunterent  a  Cousin,  ce  furent  des  argu- 
ments et  non  point  un  systems,  et  ce  furent  aussi  les  formes  bien 
arret ees  de  principes  et  d'idees  qu'ils  avaient  deja  vu  exposer 
par  Benjamin  Constant  et  J.  M.  de  Gerando.  Apres  avoir  predit 
que  l'eclectisme  francais  exercerait  sur  le  developpement  de  la 
pensee  philosophique  en  Amerique  une  influence  salutaire,  l'au- 
teur  des  Specimens  ajoutait: 

I  do  not  mean  that  Cousin  will  ever  be  regarded  as  the  founder  of  a 
philosophical  sect  among  the  thinkers  of  this  nation.  This  is  forbidden 
by  the  whole  character  of  his  system.  It  does  not  contain  a  single 
element  which  can  lead  to  the  establishment  of  an  exclusive  school.     The 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisnn  479 

happiest  effect  which  he  produces  on  the  minds  of  his  disciples  is  to  lead 
them  to  think  no  less  independently  of  him  than  of  others.  .  .  .  This 
characteristic  is  adapted  to  give  his  philosophy  a  favorable  reception 
among  ourselves.  The  reign  of  authoritative,  dogmatic  systems  has  never 
been  firmly  established  over  the  mind  of  this  nation;  every  exclusive 
faith  has  called  forth  a  host  in  dissent.58 

II  ne  s'agit  clone  pas  pour  Ripley,  non  plus  que  pour  les 
transcendantalistes  que  nous  avons  cites,  de  se  faire  eclectiques  S 
la  maniere  des  spiritualistes  franeais,  pas  da  vantage  de  s'en 
tenir  strietement,  dans  leur  effort  de  justifier  philosophiquement 
1 'existence  du  sentiment  religieux  ou  du  sentiment  moral,  a  cette 
methode  dite  psychologique  dont  Schelling  lui-meme.  comme 
nous  le  disions  tout  a  l'heure,  avouait  ne  pas  comprendre  tous 
les  secrets;  mais  seulement  de  montrer,  comme  nous  l'avons  deja 
marque,  que  la  science  ne  s 'oppose  point  a  la  religion,  que  la  foi 
elle-meme  trouve  dans  la  raison  sa  justification.  "It  exhibits," 
dit  Ripley  en  parlant  de  l'eclectisme  de  Cousin,  "to  the  specu- 
lative inquirer  in  the  rigorous  form  of  science,  the  reality  of  our 
instinctive  faith  in  God,  in  virtue,  in  the  Human  Soul,  in  the 
Beauty  of  Holiness,  and  in  the  Immortality  of  Man."59  Et  dans 
un  autre  passage  le  meme  auteur  ajoute : 

"We  are  believers  in  a  spiritual  religion.  A  deep  conviction  of  the  reality 
of  the  spiritual  truth  and,  at  the  same  time,  a  strong  desire  for  a 
philosophical  system  which  shall  explain  and  legitimate  it,  are  every- 
where found  among  contemplative  individuals.  .  .  .  The  prevalence  of 
this  feeling  explains  the  remarkable  popularity  of  Coleridge  as  a  philoso- 
phical writer.  The  objects  at  which  Mr.  Coleridge  aims  are  in  a  great 
measure  accomplished  by  the  philosophy  of  Cousin.  It  establishes  on  a 
rock  the  truth  of  the  everlasting  sentiment  of  the  human  heart.™ 

Comme  on  pent  s'en  rendre  compte  par  tout  ce  qui  precede, 
en  particulier  par  le  dernier  passage  que  nous  avons  cite,  et  cela 
quand  bien  meme  Ripley  dit  de  Teclectisme  "that  it  reconciles 
the  holiest  instincts  of  man  with  the  rigid  precision  of  science," 
nous  ne  sommes  pas  encore  tres  loin  de  Benjamin  Constant  et  de 


ss  Specimens,  I,  pp.  29-30. 
59  Ibid.,  p.  40. 


480  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

J.  M.  Gerando,  parce  qu'  enfin  on  peut  dire  de  la  doctrine  phi- 
losophique  de  ces  derniers,  ce  que  l'auteur  des  Specimens  disait 
de  eelle  de  Cousin,  c'est-a-dire  qu'elle  marque  eette  periode  de 
transition  "from  the  skeptical  and  sensual  theories  of  the  18th 
century  to  the  more  elevated  and  spiritual  views  of  the  nature 
of  man."61  Nous  ajouterons  meme  qu'au  moment  on  les  uni- 
taires  liberaux  furent  mis  en  contact  avec  les  ecrits  de  V.  Cousin 
ils  possedaient  deja  celles  de  leurs  idees  philosophiques  qui  firent 
appeler  quelques-uns  d'entre  eux  transcendantalistes,  idees  qui 
se  reduisaient  en  somme  a  cette  simple  proposition:  1'homme  a 
par  intuition  conscience  en  toutes  choses,  du  bien  et  du  mal,  du 
juste  et  de  Tin  juste,  de  meme  que  par  intuition  il  a  conscience 
de  1 'existence  de  Dieu.  Or,  nous  savons  qu'ils  devaient  aux 
livres  intitules  De  la  religion  et  Du  perfectionnement  cette  con- 
ception du  sens  moral.  S  'il  est  vrai  que  celle-ci  se  modifia  legere- 
ment  chez  G.  Ripley  et  chez  T.  Parker  sous  1 'influence  de  la  doc- 
trine kantienne  de  l'imperatif  categorique  qu'ils  trouverent  ex- 
posed tres  clairement  par  Victor  Cousin,  il  ne  demeure  pas  moins 
vrai  qu'ils  devaient  aussr' bien  a  Benjamin  Constant  ainsi  qu'a 
de  Gerando,  qu'au  chef  de  l'eclectisme,  ce  en  quoi  cette  concep- 
tion pouvait  participer  du  transcendantalisme. 

II  est  d'autant  plus  certain  que  les  transcendantalistes  s'oc- 
cuperent  assez  peu  du  systeme  de  Cousin,  considere  comme  tel, 
et  qu'ils  ne  s'arreterent  qu'a  celles  de  ses  donnees  qui  offraient 
de  nouveaux  appuis  a  la  morale  chretienne,62  que  W.  E.  Chan- 
ning,  qui  ne  cachait  point  son  admiration  pour  le  spirtualisme  de 
l'auteur  de  V Introduction  a  Vhistoire  de  la  philosophic,  ecrivait 
cependant,  et  cela  apres  avoir  releve  les  merites  de  l'ouvrage  de 
J.  M.  de  Gerando  que  nous  avons  cite :  "we  have  little  respect  for 
the  rash  generalizations  of  the  bold  and  eloquent  Cousin."63 


61  Specimens  of  Foreign  Standard  Literature.  I,  p.  3. 

62  Quelque  effort  que  l'on  fasse  pour  isoler  completement  la  doctrine 
philosophique  du  transcendantalisme,  des  formes  religieuses  auxquelles 
nous  la  trouvons  presque  toujours  attachee,  on  ne  saurait  y  parvenir. 
Dans  1 'esprit  des  transcendantalistes  la  morale  et  la  religion  se  con- 
fondent  si  eompletement,  qu'il  est  impossible  en  maints  emlroits  de  les 
distinguer. 

«s  W.  E.  Channing's  Works,  I,  p.  277. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  4x1 

Ce  qui  prouve  egalement  que  Ripley  se  preoccupa  avant  tout 
de  rechercher  dans  Cousin  des  arguments  philosophiques  des- 
tines a  defendre  une  conception  toute  spiritualiste  de  la  religion, 
c'est  que  les  notes  dont  il  fait  suivre  les  extraits  que  nous  avons 
mentionnes  se  rapportent  presque  toutes  a  ce  dernier  snjet.  Ne 
mentionnant  ici  que  les  plus  importantes,  nous  citerons  les  sui- 
vantes:  President  Hopkins  on  Natural  Theology;  Pantheism; 
Philosophy  of  Enthusiasm;  Theological  School;  Cousin's  Views 
of  Christianity  as  a  Means  of  Education;  Religious  Influence  of 
Cousin's  Philosophy;  Manifestation  of  God  in  Creation;  Atheism 
Contrary  to  Nature. 

S'il  est  vrai  que  Brownson  ne  fut  pas  sans  eonnaitre,  ni  sans 
mettre  a  profit,  occasionnellement,  la  methode  dite  psychologique 
inauguree  par  le  professeur  de  Paris,  on  ne  saurait  dire  que 
c'est  l'emploi  de  cette  methode  qui  le  fit  appeler  transcendanta- 
liste,  puisqu'a  l'instar  de  Channing  il  reproche  a  V.  Cousin  de 
n 'avoir  pas  fait  elairement  la  distinction  entre  l'intuition  et  la 
reflexion.  ' '  He  is  not  a  transcendentalist, ' '  dit  de  lui  Brownson, 
"holding  that  the  truth  thus  received  does  not  transcend  the 
natural  order."64 

There  is  manifested  a  singular  pertinency  [ecrit  le  meme  auteur]  in 
confounding  Mr.  Cousin  with  certain  persons  among  ourselves  who  for 
some  reasons  not  known  to  us  have  received  the  appellation  Transcen- 
dentalists.  He  professes  no  philosophy  which  transcends  experience.  He 
is  not  a  transcendentalist,  as  the  term  appears  to  be  understood  in  this 
community.65 

Transcendantaliste  ou  non,  il  est  indeniable  que  l'auteur  des 
Fragments  philosophiques  et  de  V Introduction  a  I'histoire  de  la 
philosophie  exerca  sur  les  destinees  de  la  pensee  philosophique  e1 
religieuse  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  une  reelle  influence.0"  S  'agis- 


64  Boston  Quarterly  Review,  IV,  p.  359. 

65  Ibid.,  p.  356. 

66  Si  nous  n 'avons  fait  intervenir  dans  le  debat  qui  nous  a  occupe" 
tout  au  long  du  chapitre  que  nous  allons  quitter,  ni  Emerson,  ni  Theo- 
dore Parker,  c'est  que  ni  l'un  ni  l'autre  ne  porterent  grand  Lntexel  a 
l'eclectisme  de  Cousin.  Emerson  dit  meme  ne  voir  dans  ce  systeme 
qu'une  illusion  d'optique  qui  fait  apparaitre  vraies  les  doctrines  les  plus 
contradictoires.     En  y  regardant  de  pres,  on  decouvrirait  cependanl    que 


482  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

sant  maintenant  de  resurner  ce  que  nous  avons  dit  au  cours  de  ee 
chapitre  de  la  nature  de  cette  influence,  nous  le  ferons  dans  ces 
termes:  les  transcendantalistes  durent  au  chef  inconteste  de 
l'ecole  eclectique  la  terminologie  philosophique  d 'arguments  re- 
nouveles  de  Reid  et  de  Stewart  d'une  part,  de  Benjamin  Con- 
stant et  de  J.  M.  de  Gerando,  d 'autre  part,  arguments  dont  ils  se 
servirent  pour  leur  refutation  de  la  tlieologie  calviniste,  du  sen- 
sualisme  de  Locke  et  du  scepticisme  de  Hume ;  puis,  une  forme 
modifiee  de  la  conception  du  sens  moral  qu'ils  avaient  heritee 
des  philosophes  ecossais  plus  encore  que  des  precurseurs  de 
l'eclectisme  francais;  enfin,  quelques  idees  sur  la  philosophie  de 
la  nature  et  sur  celle  de  l'histoire,  idees  qu'ils  retrouverent  un 
peu  plus  tard,  sous  leurs  formes  originales,  dans  les  ouvrages  de 
Schelling  et  de  Hegel.  Pour  eviter  le  reproche  qu'on  pourrait 
nous  faire  de  n'y  avoir  point  songe,  ajoutons  que  la  traduction 
que  fit  Victor  Cousin  des  oeuvres  de  Platon  et  que  son  edition  de 


le  sage  de  Concord  mit  tres  probablement  a  contribution  dans  phis  d'un 
aphorisme  dont  la  raison  fit  les  frais,  ce  que  Victor  Cousin  dit  de  cette 
faeulte.  II  serait  interessant  de  rapprocher  egalement  ce  que  ce  dernier 
eerivit  des  "grands  homines"  (voir  dixieme  lecon  de  son  Introduction  a 
l'histoire  de  la  philosophie,  pp.  201-225)  et  ce  qui  forme  l'essai  bien  connu 
sous  le  titre  de  Representative  Men. 

Si  nous  ne  jugeons  pas  a  propos  de  descendre  de  ces  generalites  aux 
recherches  qu'elles  suggerent,  c 'est  qu'elles  sont  etrangeres  a  notre  sujet. 
Et  de  plus,  comme  nous  avons  eu  1 'occasion  de  le  montrer  ailleurs,  Emer- 
son ne  fut  pas  a  proprement  parler  un  transcendantaliste,  ou  du  moins, 
s'il  le  fut  a  ses  heures,  il  n'y  a  rien  de  commun  entre  la  conception  tout 
intellectuelle  qu'il  se  fit  de  la  religion  et  le  spiritualisme  tout  evange- 
lique  d'un  Channing,  d'un  Eipley  ou  d'un  Parker.  En  outre,  son  indi- 
vidualisme  intransigeant  qui  rappelle  celui  de  H.  David  Thoreau,  et  la 
morale  utilitaire  dont  il  fit  profession  a  l'instar  de  l'auteur  d'un  abrege 
de  la  philosophie  de  Thomas  Brown,  nous  voulons  dire  Levi  Hedge,  le 
tinrent  toujours  eloigne  de  ceux  qui,  desireux  de  conformer  leur  vie  aux 
principes  de  ce  transcendantalisme  un  peu  special  qu'on  leur  reprochait, 
organiserent  Brook  Farm.  Quant  a  ce  que  fut  comme  philosophe  le  bril- 
lant  essayiste  que  chacun  se  plait  a  reconnaitre  dans  Emerson,  mil  ne  le 
dit  jamais  mieux  que  Orestes  A.  Brownson.  "He  hardly  ever  has  a  lead- 
ing thought,"  eerivit  en  effet  a  propos  du  sage  de  Concord  l'editeur  de  la 
Boston  Quarterly  Eevieiv,  "to  which  all  the  parts  of  his  discourse  are  sub- 
ordinate, which  is  clearly  stated,  systematically  drawn  out,  and  logically 
enforced.  .  .  .  He  is  a  poet  rather  than  a  philosopher.  He  must  be  read 
not  for  a  work  of  art,  which  shall  be  perfect  as  a  whole,  ut  for  the 
exquisite  beauty  of  its  details,  not  for  any  new  or  striking  p  ilosophieal 
views,  but  for  incidental  remarks,  frequent  aphorism,  valuable  hints, 
rich  and  original  imagerv  and  illustrations"  (Brownson 's  Works,  XIX, 
p.  3). 

Quant  a  Th.  Parker,  il  se  peut  qu'il  doive  a  sa  lecture  des  ecnts  de 
Cousin  la  conception  toute  kantienne  qu'il  exposa  de  la  morale. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  is:; 

eelles  de  Proclus,  a  l'instar  des  Systemes  compares  d<  philosophie 
du  baron  de  Gerando,  contribuerent  pour  leur  pari  a  raviver 
dans  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  1 'etude  de  la  philosophic  grecque, 
en  particulier  celle  du  neo-platonisme. 

Nous  en  aurions  fiui  avec  ce  que  nous  avions  a  dire  des  ori- 
gines  franchises  de  la  doctrine  philosophique  du  transcendanta- 
lisme, si  Victor  Cousin  n'avait  eu  un  disciple  dont  les  travaux, 
par  endroits  identiques  a  ceux  de  son  maitre,  trouverenl  en 
Amerique  toute  la  faveur  qu'y  avaient  rencontree  les  Fragments 
philosophiqu.es  et  V Introduction  a  I'histoire  de  la  philosophie. 
Et  quand  bien  meme  le  nom  de  Theodore  Jouffroy  ne  fait  qu'un, 
bien  souvent,  dans  l'esprit  des  transcendantalistes  avec  celui  du 
maitre  de  l'eclectisme  francais,  nous  sommes  bien  oblige  de  Ten 
detacher,  car  enfin  la  philosophie  du  disciple  distingue  de  Victor 
Cousin  marque  bien  mieux  encore  que  celle  de  ce  dernier  la 
transition  que  Ton  peut  etablir  entre  le  transcendantalisme  con- 
sidere  sous  son  aspect  philosophique  et  cette  meme  doctrine  con- 
sidered sous  son  aspect  social.  Toutefois,  comme  ceux  des 
ouvrages  de  Jouffroy  dont  les  conclusions  different  tant  soit  peu 
de  eelles  qu'on  trouve  aux  travaux  de  Cousin,  interessent 
specialement  la  morale  sociale,  on  nous  pardonnera  de  ne  pas 
accorder  a  l'auteur  des  Melanges  philosophique  s  et  du  Cours  de 
droit  naturel,  dans  le  chapitre  qui  va  nous  occuper,  une  place 
aussi  considerable  que  celle  que  nous  avons  consacree  ou  chef  de 
l'ecole  eclectique. 

(e)  Theodore  Jouffroy  et  les  transcendantalistes. — Disciple 
de  Royer-Collard  et  de  Victor  Cousin,  Theodore  Jouffroy07  con- 
tribua  plus  encore  que  ses  maitres  a  propager  en  France  les  doc- 
trines de  la  philosophie  ecossaise,  grace  en  particulier  a  sa  tra- 


67  Theodore  Simon  Jouffroy  (1796-1842),  maitre  de  conferences  a 
l'Ecole  Normale  de  Paris.  Bibliographic:  Esquisses  de  philosophic  morale, 
traduction  des  Outlines  of  Moral  Philosophy  de  Dugald  Stewart,  Pans, 
1826:  (Euvr  «  de  Thomas  Beid,  6  vol.,  1828-1836;  Melanges  philosoptoques, 
1833  (3me  lition,  1860,  4me  ed.,  1866,  5me,  1875;  la  plupart  des  essais 
qui  formere  t  cet  ouvrage  avaient  deja  paru  entre  1824  et  1830,  BOit  'Inns 
Le  Globe,  soit  dans  la  Revue  europeenne,  soit  dans  I'Encyclopedie  modi  rm  I  ; 
Cours  de  droit  naturel,  2  vol.,  1834  et  1835  (en  1824  parut  un  3me  volume 
sous  le  titre  de  Legons  posthumes;  3me  ed.,  1858,  5me  ed.,  1876;  Nouveaux 
melanges  philosophiques  (ouvrage  posthume),  1848;  Cours  d'esthetique,  184d 
(3me  ed.,  1875). 


484  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

duct  ion  des  Esquisses  de  philosophic  morale,  de  Dugald  Stewart, 
ainsi  qu'a  celle  qu'il  fit  des  CEuvres  de  Thomas  Reid. 

Les  deux  prefaces  jointes  a  ces  ouvrages  contiennent  sous  une 
forme  abregee  toute  la  philosophic  que  Ton  trouve  exposee  tout 
au  long  des  Melanges  et  des  Nouveaux  melanges  philosophiques, 
et  encore  davantage  dans  le  Cours  de  droit  natiircl.  Exposer 
cette  philosophic,  ce  serait  repeter  presque  en  des  termes  iden- 
tiques  ce  que  nous  avons  dit  ailleurs  de  celle  de  Cousin.  On  nous 
saura  done  gre  de  n'en  rappeler  ici  que  les  donnees  essentielles. 

Disciple  de  Price,  de  Reid  et  de  Stewart,  Theodore  Jouffroy, 
a  l'instar  de  son  maitre,  eut  a  coeur,  avant  tout,  la  rehabilitation 
des  sciences  morales  que  la  theologie  traditionnelle  avait  rem- 
placees  par  des  reponses  de  eatechisme,  et  que  le  sensualisme  phi- 
losophique  n 'avait  fait  consister  que  dans  un  certain  nombre  de 
preceptes  destines  a  rapeller  que  celui-la  seul  est  sage  qui  s 'en- 
tend  a  ne  rechercher  que  ce  qui  peut  servir  ses  propres  interets. 
Ce  qu'il  veut  avant  tout,  e'est  signaler  hexistence  de  phe- 
nomenes  interieurs  que  les  sens  ne  produisent,  ni  ne  controlent, 
constater  les  lois  auxquelles  sont  soumis  ces  phenomenes,  puis, 
determiner  la  raison  d  'etre  de  leur  existence. 

Jouffroy  s 'applique  done  premierement  a  montrer  que  nous 
avons  des  passions,  des  pensees  et  des  volontes ;  que  nous  avons 
de  la  joie  et  de  la  douleur,  des  actes  de  1 'intelligence  et  des  de- 
terminations volontaires,  une  perception  a  laquelle  nos  sens  ne 
sont  pour  rien,  une  perception  qui  s'exerce  sans  l'intermediaire 
d'aucun  organe  visible,  et  cela  grace  a  Texistence  en  nous  d'une 
sorte  de  sens  intime,  de  vue  immediate,  de  pure  intelligence  in- 
tuitive, a  laquelle  nous  donnons  le  nom  de  conscience.  Celle-ci 
est  a  notre  "moi"  interieur,  a  notre  etre  moral,  ce  que  nos  sens, 
dits  organiques,  sont  au  monde  exterieur  ainsi  qu'a  notre  etre 
physique.  Puis,  ayant  constate  1 'existence  de  ces  faits  de  con- 
science sui  generis,  notre  philosophe  s 'applique  a  demontrer  que 
ceux-ci,  tout  aussi  bien  que  les  faits  organiques  qui  derivent  de 
la  sensation,  sont  soumis  a  Taction  de  lois  eternelles  et  immuables 
qui  leur  sont  anterieures,  et  dont  il  appartient  a  la  psychologie 
de  determiner  le  caractere  et  le  fonctionnement.     Enfin,  il  pose 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  iv, 

en  principe  que  ces  phenomenes  interieurs  dont  nous  avons  eon 
science,  quelle  que  soit  du  reste  la  facon  dont  on  les  explique, 
ont  leur  raison  d'etre,  leur  destination,  et  que  le  propre  de  l'on- 
tologie  est  de  rechercher  les  fins  auxquelles  ils  tendent. 

Le  merite  essentiel  de  Theodore  Jouffroy  a  ete  d'avoir  ex- 
pose, en  des  termes  tout  a  la  fois  simples  et  rigoureusemenl 
scientifiques,  line  doctrine  que  ni  les  philosophes  ecossais  ni 
meme  Victor  Cousin  ne  surent  definir  avec  la  meme  precision  el 
la  meme  clarte.  Parlant  de  son  disciple,  Cousin  ne  craignit  point 
de  dire : 

qu'il  etait  sans  contredit  le  plus  habile  interprete  que  la  science  put  avoir, 
non  settlement  dans  l'ecole,  mais  aupres  du  monde,  solide  et  profond 
parmi  les  doctes,  et  en  meme  temps  accessible  a  tous.  Son  style,  comme 
sa  parole,  eclaircissait,  ordonnait,  gravait  toutes  ses  pensees.  Nul  ne 
connut,  nul  surtout  ne  pratiqua  mieux  la  vraie  methode  philosophique,  la 
methode  d  'observation,  appliquee  a  1  'ame  humaine.68 

II  y  a,  en  effet,  dans  le  style  de  Jouffroy,  une  belle  ordonnance 
qu'on  ne  trouve  pas  toujours  dans  les  ecrits  de  son  maitre;  l'ar- 
gumentation  marche  d'un  pas  assure  vers  un  but  qu'on  entrevoit 
nettement.  Et  puis,  on  n'est  pas  sans  pressentir  que  chez 
l'auteur  des  Prolegomenes  au  droit  naturel,  plus  que  chez  celui 
des  Fragments  philosopMques,  le  coeur  habite  tout  pres  de  la 
raison.  De  sorte  que  s'il  est  vrai  qu'il  n'y  a  aucune  difference 
essentielle  entre  la  doctrine  du  maitre  et  celle  du  disciple,  il  y  a 
neanmoins  chez  ce  dernier  des  preoccupations  humanitaires  plus 
pressantes,  un  desir  plus  ardent,  des  intentions  plus  courageuses 
de  mettre  la  philosophie,  non  seulement  au  service  de  la  morale 
individuelle  et  de  la  religion,  mais  aussi  au  service  de  la  justice 
sociale  et  de  l'humanite. 

Cette  simplicite  dans  le  style,  cette  clarte  dans  l'exposition. 
jointes  a  cette  preoccupation  constante  du  disciple  de  Cousin,  de 
resoudre  le  probleme  de  la  destinee  humaine  en  faisant  de  la 
morale  sociale  le  prolongement  necessaire  de  la  morale  indi- 
viduelle dans  toutes  les  spheres  d'activite  dans  lesquelles  l'homme 
se  meut,  suffisent  a  expliquer  le  succes  immediat  que  recontrerenl 


Fragments  pliilosophiques,  p.  398. 


486  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.4 

les    ecrits    de    Jouffroy    aupres    des    transcendantalistes    de    la 
Nouvelle-Angleterre. 

A  proprement  parler,  l'auteur  des  Melanges  philosopJiiques — 
et  cette  remarque  peut  s'appliquer  a  tous  les  eclectiques  francais, 
a  l'exception  peut-etre  de  Maine  de  Biran — n'est  pas  un  trans- 
cendantaliste :  on  s?en  rend  fort  bien  compte  en  lisant  attentive- 
ment  sa  refutation  de  la  doctrine  philosophique  de  Richard 
Price.69  Apres  avoir  demontre  que  la  doctrine  de  Locke  n'ex- 
plique  que  quelques-unes  de  nos  idees;  apres  avoir  rapelle  que 
la  doctrine  morale  de  Price — doctrine  qu'il  declare  tres  supe- 
rieure  a  celles  de  Reid  et  de  Stewart — presuppose  que  l'idee  du 
bien  est  eternelle  et  imniuable,  independante  de  la  sensation,  de 
la  sensibilite  et  de  1 'intelligence,  etrangere  a  toute  experience,  et 
par  consequent  purement  intuitive,  Theodore  Jouffroy,  tout  en 
admettant  qu'un  jugement  moral  vrai  exprime  une  verite  absolue, 
imniuable  et  eternelle,  entend  se  separer  du  pliilosophe  anglais 
dont  nous  avons  rappele  le  nom,  en  ajoutant :  1  'idee  du  bien, 
quoique  intuitive,  peut  etre  decomposee,  analysee,  jugee  par  la 
raison.  Or,  c'est  ce  que  Richard  Price  se  refuse  a  admettre.70 
Cette  seule  difference,  que  nous  avons  deja  constatee  sous  une 
forme  a  peu  pres  analogue  entre  Cousin  et  Schelling,  montre 
suffisamment  que  Jouffroy,  a  l'instar  de  son  maitre,  s'est  place, 


eo  Eichard  Price,  comme  nous  avons  eu  1 'occasion  de  le  marquer 
ailleurs,  a  ete  le  precurseur  le  plus  authentique  du  transcendantalisme 
philosophique  de  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre,  et  nul  plus  que  W.  E.  Ch aiming 
ne  subit  son  influence.  S'il  est  vrai  que  Cudworth  admettait  deja  que 
"la  raison  conqoit  les  idees  de  bien  et  de  nial  d 'une  maniere  immediate  a 
1 'occasion  des  actions  humaines  absolument  comme  a  1 'occasion  des 
evenemments  elle  concoit  l'idee  de  cause,  ou  celle  d'espace  a  1 'occasion 
des  corps,"  le  merite  revient  sans  contredit  a  Eichard  Price  d 'avoir 
etabli  avec  force  et  clarte  que  l'idee  du  bien  ne  nous  est  fournie  ni  par 
1 'instinct,  ni  par  les  sens,  ni  par  1 'experience,  mais  par  une  intuition 
absolument  transeendantale.  Voir  sur  ce  sujet  Cours  de  droit  nature!, 
vol.  2,  21me  lec,on,  en  particulier  page  129. 

70  Nous  sommes  d  'autant  moins  enclin  a  sortir  de  ces  generalites,  a 
preciser  davantage  en  quoi  la  doctrine  morale  de  Price  differe  de  celle  de 
Jouffroy,  que  ce  dernier  fit  suivre  le  texte  de  la  derniere  le^on  qu'il  con- 
sacra  a  sa  critique  de  cette  partie  du  systeme  de  Price  que  nous  etudions 
ici,  de  cette  remarque  inattendue:  "En  revoyant  apres  plusieurs  mois 
cette  critique  de  Price,  je  ne  la  trouve  pas  entierement  dans  le  vrai ;  mais 
pour  l'y  ramener,  il  aurait  fallu  refondre  ces  deux  lemons,  et  j 'ai  prefere 
n'y  rien  changer"  (Cours  de  droit  naturel,  vol.  2,  p.  206). 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  187 

consciemnient  ou  inconscierament,  hors  des  limites  du  trans- 
cendantalisme proprement  dit. 

Que  l'auteur  des  Melanges  philosophiques  ait  ete,  ou  n'ail  pas 
ete,  un  transcendantaliste,  la  chose  avait  fort  pen  d'importance 
aux  yeux  de  ceux  des  unitaires  liberaux  de  la  Nouvelle-Angle- 
terre  qui  s'interesserent  a  ses  ouvrages.  lis  ne  lui  surent  gre 
que  d 'avoir  renouvele  sous  des  formes  tres  simples  et,  comme 
nous  le  faisions  remarquer  tout  a  l'heure,  precises  et  rigoureuse- 
ment  scientifiques,  l'argumentation  dont  Hutcheson  et  Price, 
Reid  et  Stewart,  s'etaient  servis  pour  refuter  la  doctrine  cal- 
viniste  et  catholique  du  peche  originel,  le  sensualisme  de  Hume 
qui  en  etait  un  des  appuis,  le  scepticisme  de  Hume  et  le  mate- 
rialisme  de  Condillac,  auxquels  avait  conduit  ce  meme  sen- 
sualisme. 

De  quelle  facon  1 'influence  exercee  par  les  ecrits  de  Jouffroy 
se  fit-elle  sentir  dans  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre,  c'est  ce  qu'il  nous 
reste  maintenant  a  examiner. 

Faisons  remarquer  tout  d'abord  que  le  disciple  de  Cousin 
avait  confie  au  journal  Le  Globe,  a  la  Revue  europeenne  ainsi 
qu'a  VEncyclopedie  moderne,  la  plupart  des  essais  qu'en  1833 
il  fit  paraitre  sous  le  titre  de  Melanges  philosophiques.  Ces  dif- 
ferentes  revues  ayant  eu  en  Amerique  un  certain  nombre  de  lec- 
teurs — nous  en  sommes  assure  puis  qu'elles  sont  citees  occasion- 
nellement — il  est  fort  probable  qu'avant  1830  les  idees  du  phi- 
losophe  francais  s'etaient  deja  fraye  une  voie  dans  la  Nouvelle- 
Angleterre.  Nul  article  plus  que  celui  paru  en  1825,  sous  le 
litre  "Comment  les  dogmes  finissent"71  n'etait  mieux  fait  pour 
attirer  l'attention  de  ceux  des  unitaires  qui  voulaient  eu  finir 
avec  le  formalisme  suranne  du  calvinisme  tradition uel.  Dans 
l'essai  intitule  "De  la  philosophie  et  du  sens  cominuu,"72  ces 
memes  unitaires  ne  furent  pas  sans  retrouver  toutes  les  donnees 
essentielles  de  la  philosophie  ecossaise.73     Des  articles  tels  que 


7i  Globe,  24  Mai  1825,  tome  ii,  p.  565. 
~-  Bevue  europeenne,  aout  1824. 

"3  Rappelons  en   passant   que   l'ouvrage  de  Stewart,  intitule  "Active 
Moral  Powers  of  Man,"  ne  parut  qu'en  1828. 


488  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

ceux  que  Jouffroy  fit  paraitre  sous  ces  titres  divers:  du  spiri- 
tualisme  et  du  materialisme74  du  scepticisme75  de  la  science 
psychologique76  des  facultes  de  I'dme  humaine,77  tous  ecrits  entre 
1823  et  1830,  et  ne  contenant  rien  autre  que  les  arguments  phi- 
losophiques  dont  se  servirent  plus  tard  les  transcendantalistes 
pour  defendre  leur  conception  de  la  morale,  ne  purent  pas  etre 
sans  avoir  exerce  leur  part  d 'influence  sur  la  formation  d'un 
mouvement  de  pensee  qui  revetit  en  France  et  en  Amerique  des 
formes  a  peu  pres  identiques,  et  cela  dans  un  temps  ou  l'Angle- 
terre  n'y  portait  plus  qu'un  mediocre  interet. 

Nous  sommes  d'autant  plus  autorise  a  admettre  que  cette  in- 
fluence s'exerca  dans  la  Nouvelle-Angleterre  avant  la  publica- 
tion, en  1838,  des  Specimens  of  Foreign  Standard  Literature  et 
de  la  traduction  du  Cours  de  droit  naturel78  par  William  H. 
Channing,  traduction  dont  la  preface  qui  raccompagne  porte  la 
date  1839,  que  VEdinburgh  Review,  Blackwood's  Magazine  et  le 
Christian  Examiner,  bien  avant  1 'apparition  des  ouvrages  que 
nous  venous  de  citer,  introduisirent  aupres  de  leurs  lecteurs  les 
doctrines  philosopbiques  de  l'eclectisme  francais,  telles  qu'elles 
furent  exposees  dans  les  essais  que  nous  avons  cites. 

En  1826  l'auteur  d'un  compte  rendu  de  quelques  ouvrages  qui 
venaient  de  paraitre  en  France  ecrit  dans  Blackwood's  Maga- 
zine7* que  les  articles  les  plus  remarquables  publies  par  Le  Globe 
sont  sans  contredit  ceux  de  Theodore  Jouffroy.  En  1830  VEdin- 
burgh Review,80  faisant  allusion  a  la  traduction  que  ce  dernier 
avait  deja  donnee  de  la  premiere  partie  des  ouvrages  de  Keid, 
ainsi  qu'a  l'excellente  preface  dont  il  avait  fait  preceder  son 
interpretation  des  Outlines  of  Moral  Philosophy  de  Dugald 
Stewart,  declarait  que  l'une  et  l'autre  avaient  contribue  puis- 


t*  Globe,  VI,  pp.  926  et  933,  et  tome  VII,  p.  3. 

"■"  Encyclopedic  moderne,  tome  XX. 

76  Ibid.,  tome  XIX. 

''Ibid.,  tome  XII  (Voir  aussi  "Du  bien  et  du  mal,"  meme  revue, 
tome  IV. 

is  Introduction  to  Ethics,  Including  a  Critical  Surrey  of  Moral  Systems, 
translated  from  the  French  of  Jouffroy,  by  William  H.  Channing,  Boston 
and  Cambridge,  1858. 

™Vol.  XVIII,  p.  717. 

s"  Vol.  L,  p.  197. 


1916]  Girard:  Dutramcendantalismt  189 

sammeiit  a  l'elaboration  d'une  doctrine  qui  s'opposail  an  sen- 
sualisms exclusif  de  Condillac  ainsi  qu'au  rationalisme  de  l'ecole 
allemande,  et  cela  au  moment  meme  ou  en  Angleterre  on  ne  por- 
tait  plus  aueun  interet  aux  choses  de  la  psychologie,  non  plus 
qu'aux  sciences  morales,  ou  la  seule  doctrine  philosophique  qui  y 
fut  assuree  de  quelque  succes  etait  l'utilitarisme  rationaliste  tel 
que  Texposait  Thomas  Brown  dans  ses  Lectures  on  the  Philoso- 
phy of  Mind. 

En  1830  egalement,  le  Christian  Examiner81  faisait  paraitre 
deja  un  long  article  sur  celui  des  essais  de  Jouffroy  que  V En- 
cyclopedic moderne  (tome  XX)  avait  publie  la  meme  annee,  sous 
le  titre  "Du  scepticisme, "  essai  qui  devait  plus  tard  trouver 
place  dans  les  Melanges  philosophiques. 

En  1836,  l'auteur  d'un  compte  rendu  des  Prolegomenes  au 
droit  naturel,  paru  dans  Blackwood's  Magazine82  disait  du  phi- 
losophe  franeais  dont  nous  nons  occupons  qu'il  avait  etc  le  pre- 
mier a  etablir  sur  un  fondement  solide  un  systeme  de  morale 
complet.83 

Ce  qui  toutef  ois  contribua  plus  que  les  articles  que  nous  avons 
rappeles,  a  repandre  les  doctrines  de  Jouffroy  dans  la  Nouvelle- 
Angleterre,  ce  fut  le  compte  rendu  que  fit  paraitre  Brownson,  en 
1837,  dans  le  Christian  Examiner,  du  Cours  de  droit  naturel. 
Quand  meme  nous  sommes  bien  certain  qu'a.  cette  date  les  doc- 
trines en  question  etaient  tres  familieres  a,  plus  d'un  representaut 
de  l'unitarisme  liberal — George  Ripley,  en  particulier,  dut  s'y 
interesser  bien  avant  1837,  puisque  moins  d'un  an  plus  tard  il 
faisait  paraitre  les  deux  premiers  volumes  des  Specimens  of 
Foreign  Standard  Literature — nous  n 'avons  point  de  raisons  de 
mettre  en  doute  le  temoignage  de  Brownson  lui-meme,  qui  nous 
affirme  qu'il  fut  le  premier  a  attirer  1 'attention  du  public  cul- 
tive  de  la  Nouvelle- Angleterre  sur  la  philosophic  du  disciple  de 
Cousin,  et  cela  en  publiant  le  compte  rendu  auquel  nous  venous 
de  faire  allusion. 


si  Vol.  XV,  art.     "The  Skepticism  of  the  Present  Age,"  pp.   139    II". 

82  Vol.  XXXIX,  p.  299. 

83  Ibid. 


490  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

Les  termes  dans  lesquels  le  futur  editeur  de  la  Boston  Quar- 
terly Review  parlait  de  la  doctrine  du  professeur  de  Paris  etaient 
certes  bien  fails  pour  en  rendre  sympathiques  et  acceptables  les 
conclusions.  ''We  do  place  a  high  value  on  the  labors  of  the 
French  eclectics,"  ecrivait  en  effet  Brownson,  faisant  allusion 
aux  travaux  de  Jouff roy,  ' '  and  we  believe  an  acquaintance  with 
their  philosophical  researches  a  very  important  acquisition  in 
the  work  of  elaborating  a  better  philosophy  than  any  which  has 
hitherto  obtained  among  us."84 

Lorsqu'en  1838  George  Ripley  fit  paraitre  les  deux  premiers 
volumes  de  ses  Specimens,  il  y  pouvait  parler,  dans  1 'introduc- 
tion dont  il  les  accompagna,  de  Theodore  Jouff  roy  comme  d'un 
philosophe  dont  le  nom  etait  familier  a  ses  lecteurs.  Que  mainte- 
nant  nous  sachions  quels  furent  les  principaux  extraits  du  phi- 
losophe francais  que  Ripley  fit  paraitre  dans  la  collection  que 
nous  avons  rappelee,  et  nous  nous  rendrons  compte  de  l'impor- 
tance  et  de  la  nature  de  rinfluence  que  les  travaux  du  disciple 
de  Cousin  ont  pu  exercer  sur  le  transcendantalisme. 

Mentionnant  ces  extraits  dans  l'ordre  que  leur  choisit  l'au- 
teur  des  Specimens,  ils  se  presentent  comme  suit:  "Philosophy 
and  Common  Sense  ; "  "  Skepticism ; "  "  History  of  Philosophy ; ' ' 
"The  Faculties  of  the  Human  Soul";  "On  the  Method  of 
Philosophical  Study" — ce  dernier  essai,  le  plus  considerable  de 
tous,  est  dirige  presque  tout  entier  contre  Locke  et  Condillac — ; 
' '  Ecleetism  in  Morals  ; "  "  How  Dogmas  Come  to  an  End  ; "  "  The 
Present  State  of  Humanity." 

Comme  les  essais  qui  composent  le  Cours  de  droit  naturel  ne 
sont  que  le  prolongement  dans  diverses  directions  de  rargumen- 
tation  destinee  a  defendre  les  doctrines  qu'on  trouve  dans  ceux 
que  nous  avons  cites,  lorsqu'ils  ne  sont  pas  l'application  a  la  vie 


84  Christian  Examiner,  XXII,  p.  185.  Orestes  A.  Brownson,  faisant  al- 
lusion, plus  tard,  au  temps  ou  il  etait  gagne  au  spiritualisme  franqais, 
disait  en  parlant  de  l'eclectisme  de  Jouffroy:  "We  honestly  believed  that 
it  had  solved  the  great  ethical  problem,  and  prepared  the  way  for  the 
construction  on  the  law  of  nature  as  discovered  by  natural  reason,  of  a 
complete  and  satisfactory  system  of  ethics,  which  would  endure  as  long 
as  human  nature  should  remain  unaltered"  (Brownson 's  Works.  XIV, 
p.  267). 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme 


I'.M 


soeiale  des  principes  poses  par  la  morale  individuelle,  il  est  permis 
de  dire  que  les  uns  n'etant  que  le  complement  on  le  corollaire  des 
autres,  ceux-la  servent,  autant  que  eeux-ci,  notre  demonstration. 

Connaissant  le  caractere  des  extraits  que  nous  avons  cites  e1 
celui  les  notes  qui  les  aecompagnent — presque  toutes  se  rap- 
portent  a,  la  philosophic  ecossaise — ;  sachant  aussi  que  Victor 
Cousin  assigna  a  son  disciple  une  place  entre  Reid  et  Stewart, 
et  puis  surtout,  que  William  H.  Channing,  en  1839,  avail  deja 
ecrit  la  preface  dont  il  fit  preceder  sa  traduction  du  Coins  ,1, 
droit  naturel,  il  est  certes  bien  facile  de  determiner  la  nature  de 
l'influence  exercee  par  les  ecrits  de  Jouffroy  sur  le  transcen- 
dantalisme, et  nous  nous  reprochons  presque  d  'avoir  mis  si  long- 
temps  a,  dire  qu'elle  ne  fut  autre  que  celle  que  Victor  Cousin 
exerca  sur  le  meme  mouvement. 

Ce  que  les  transcendantalistes  trouverent  dans  les  Melanges 
philosophiques,  ce  furent  des  arguments  renouveles  de  la  phi- 
losophic ecossaise  et  presentes  sous  une  forme  plus  precise  et 
plus  rigoureusement  scientifique  que  celle  qu'ils  avaient  revetue 
dans  les  ecrits  de  Reid  et  de  Stewart,  ecrits  tombes  deja  en 
quelque  desuetude  en  Angleterre  et  aux  Etats-Unis,  au  moment 
ou,  grace  aux  traductions  que  venaient  d'en  faire  paraitre  les 
philosophes  eclectiques,  ils  ravivaient  en  France  le  spiritualisme 
dont  Mme.  de  Stael,  Benjamin  Constant  et  J.  M.  Gerando  avaient 
ete  les  premiers  apotres,  dont  Maine  de  Biran,  Rover- Collard, 
Victor  Cousin  et  Theodore  Jouffroy  furent  les  theoriciens,  et 
qui  donna  au  transcendantalisme,  avec  quelques-unes  de  ses 
formes  arretees,  une  nouvelle  inspiration. 

Eussions-nous  des  doutes  a  ce  sujet,  que  certains  passages  des 
Specimens  of  Foreign  Standard  Literature  suffiraient  a  les  dis- 
siper.  Nous  nous  contenterons  d'une  seule  citation,  bien  faite 
pour  prouver  que  nos  conclusions  ne  sont  pas  sans  f  ondement : 

We  must  find  the  true  continuators  of  Dugakl  Stewart  |  ecrit  <J.  Ripley] 
in  M.  Cousin  and  particularly  in  M.  Jouffroy,  who  have  unfolded  his 
views  by  a  more  perfect  analysis,  established  them  on  a  scientific  founda- 
tion, verified  by  a  rigorous  induction  many  ideas  which  lie  left  in  the 
vagueness  of  conjecture,  and  at  the  same  time  have  enriched  his  theories 


492  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

with  many  fruitful  applications  as  well  as  original  discoveries  of  their 
own.  Indeed,  it  must  be  admitted  that  the  disciples  have  far  surpassed 
their  master  in  their  luminous  and  coherent  expositions  of  the  laws  of 
the  human  mind,  in  the  logical  exactness  of  their  conclusions,  and  in 
their  exquisite  discrimination  of  the  complicated  phenomena  of  thought 
and  feeling,  while  they  everywhere  exhibit  the  same  masculine  good 
sense,  the  same  purity  of  moral  sentiment,  and  the  same  glowing  love 
of  humanity  which  form  the  characteristic  charm  of  his  writings. 8s 

Parvenu  maintenant  au  terme  de  cette  partie  de  notre  tra- 
vail que  nous  avons  consacree  a  la  definition  ainsi  qu'aux  origines 
franchises  du  transcendantalisme  considere  essentiellement  sous 
son  aspect  philosophique,  nous  resuinerons  comme  suit  ce  que 
nous  y  avons  expose :  partant  de  ce  principe  que  1  'nomine  est  ne 
religieux,  les  transcendantalistes  admirent  qiril  est  aussi,  de  par 
sa  nature  ineme,  un  etre  moral  capable  de  discerner  par  la  seule 
intuition  le  bien  du  mal,  le  juste  de  Tin  juste.  Assez  peu  soucieux 
de  prouver  scientifiquement  l'existence  de  ce  fait  de  conscience 
de  pur  a  priori — il  eut  fallu  pour  ce  faire  user  de  toutes  les 
amies  dont  la  logique  se  sert  lorsqu'elle  tente  de  resoudre  le 
probleme  de  la  connaissance — ils  se  contenterent  de  refuter  tout 
ce  qui  etait  capable  de  compromettre  ou  seulement  d'affaiblir  les 
conclusions  qiron  en  pouvait  tirer.  Or,  s  "il  est  vrai  qu'ils  heri- 
terent  des  philosopbes  ecossais  d'une  part,  des  idealistes  alle- 
mands,  d 'autre  part,  et  cela  grace,  en  particulier,  aux  ecrits  de 
Coleridge,  et  plus  encore  de  Mine,  de  Stael  et  de  Benjamin  Con- 
stant, cette  notion  d 'intuition  de  la  verite  morale  qui  dans  leur 
esprit  se  confond  quelquefois  avec  celle  de  sens  moral,  avec  celle, 
aussi,  d'imperatif  categorique,  ils  durent  aux  eclectiques  francais 
les  formes  bien  arretees  des  arguments  dont  ils  se  servirent  pour 
combattre  tout  a  la  f ois :  la  conception  traditionnelle  du  peche 
originel :   le   sensualisme   de   Locke,   qui   n  'etait   en   somme   que 


85  Specimens,  II,  pp.  233a234.  Mentionnons  pour  memoire  le  fait  que 
les  transcendantalistes  connurent  d'autres  traductions  franchises  de  la 
philosophic  ecossaise  que  celles  de  Cousin  et  de  Jouffroy,  puisqu'ils  men- 
tionnent  occasionnellement  celle  du  premier  volume  des  Elements  of  the 
Philosophy  of  the  Human  Mind,  by  Prevost  de  Geneve,  celle  du  second 
volume  de  ce  meme  ouvrage  par  Farcy;  celles  des  Philosophical  Essays, 
par  Huret,  de  Dissertation  on  the  Progress  of  Metaphysical,  Ethical  and 
Political  Philosophy"  par  Buchon,  celle  enfm  de  Philosophy  of  the  Active 
and  Moral  Powers  of  Man,  par  Simon  et  Huret. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalismt  493 

l'expose  philosophique  de  cette  conception;  le  scepticism.'  de 
Hume  et  le  rnaterialisme  de  Condillac  qui  s'etaient  pen  a  peu 
degages  de  la  doctrine  du  fameux  Essai  sur  Ventendement  hu- 
main;  enfin,  le  rationalisme  et  la  morale  utilitaire,  tels  que  les 
professaient  Thomas  Brown  et  ses  nombreux  disciples. 


OUVEAGES  CONSULTES8" 

Alcott,  Amos  Bronson. 

Tablets.     Boston,  1868. 

Concord  Days.    Boston,  1872. 

Balph  Waldo  Emerson,  Bhilosopher  and  Seer.    Ed.  2,  Boston,  1888. 
Allen,  Joseph  H.,  and  others. 

Unitarianism,  its  Origins  and  History.     Ed.  2,  Boston,  1895. 
Bacon,  Edwin  M. 

Literary  Bilgrimages  in  New  England.     New  York,  1902. 
Brisbane,  Albert. 

Theory  of  Social  Progress.    New  York,  1876. 

A  Mental  Autobiography;  by  his  wife,  Eudelia  Brisbane.    Boston,  1893. 
Brownson,  Orestes  A. 

Works  of.     Collected  and  arranged  by  Henry  F.  Brownson.     20  vols., 
Detroit,  1882-1887. 
Bunn,  Alfred. 

Old  England  and  New  England.    Philadelphia,  1853. 
Cairns,  W.  B. 

History  of  American  Literature.    New  York,  1912. 
Carlyle,  Thomas. 

Critical  and  Miscellaneous  Essays.     5  vol.     New  York,  1899. 


86  Comme  nous  n'avons  trace  le  plan  de  notre  these  qu'apres  avoir 
pris  connaissance  de  tous  les  materiaux  dont  nous  avions  besoin  pour  sa 
composition,  il  nous  a  paru  convenable  d'indiquer  dans  notre  liste,  non 
seulement  les  ouvrages  que  nous  avons  mis  a,  contribution  pour  les  deux 
premieres  parties  de  notre  travail,  mais  aussi  ceux  qui  serviront  plus 
specialement  a  1 'elaboration  de  la  troisieme  partie. 

Nous  n'avons  pas  juge  a,  propos  de  faire  figurer  dans  notre  liste  un 
certain  nombre  de  recits  de  voyages,  tels  en  particulier  ceux  d  'AmpSre, 
de  Frederika  von  Bremer,  de  Hall,  de  Hamilton  et  de  Raumer,  dont  les 
observations  sur  les  conditions  economiques  des  Etats-Unis,  vers  1830, 
malgre  tout  l'interet  qu'elles  auront  pour  notre  etude  du  transcendan- 
talisme  considere  au  point  de  vue  social,  ne  sont  pas  de  nature  a  ajouter 
rien  d 'important  aux  conclusions  qu'on  peut  tirer  des  autres  ouvrages 
que  nous  avons  mentionnes. 

Nous  en  disons  autant  d 'un  certain  nombre  de  manuels  sur  la  lit- 
terature  americaine,  tels  ceux  de  Brownell,  de  Long,  de  Payne  et  <l<> 
Sears,  auxquels  nous  ne  devons  rien  qui  justifie  autre  chose  que  leur 
simple  mention. 


494  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

Chadwick,  John  White 

Theodore  Parker,  Preacher  and  Eeformer.     Boston,  New  York,  1901. 
William  Ellery  Channing,  Minister  of  Religion.    Boston  and  New  York, 
1903. 
Channing,  William  Ellery. 

Memoir  of  ...  ,  with  extracts,  by  his  uncle,  W.  H.  Channing.    3  vols., 

ed.  2.,  Boston  and  London,  1840. 
Works  of  .  .  .  17th  ed.,  6  vols.,  Boston,  1867. 
Works  of  ...  ,  New  and  compl.  ed.     Boston,  1891. 
Channing,  William  Henry. 

The  Life  of  W.  E.  Channing,  D.D. ;  Centen.  ed.,  by  his  nephew,  William 

Henry  Channing.     Boston,  1880. 
Introduction   to   Ethics,   translated   from   the  French   of  Jouffroy.      2 
vols.,  Boston  and  Cambridge,  1858. 
Clarke,  James  Freeman. 

Common  Sense  in  Religion.     Boston,  1874. 
Essentials  and  Non-Essentials  in  Religion.     Boston,  1878. 
Autobiography,   Diary   and   Correspondence.     Boston   and  New  York, 
1891. 
Codman,  John  Thomas. 

Brook  Farm;  historic  and  personal  memoirs.     Boston,  1874. 
Coleridge,  Samuel  Taylor. 

Works.      Ed.   by    D.,    H.    N.,    and    Sara    Coleridge.      London,    1847-53 
(20  vol.),  vol.  1-15. 
Constant,  H.  Benjamin. 

De  la  religion,  consideree  dans  sa  source,  ses  formes  et  ses  develop- 
pements.     5  vol.,  Paris,  1824-1831. 
Cooke,  George  Willis. 

The  Poets  of  Transcendentalism.     Boston  and  New  York,  1903. 
Ralph   Waldo   Emerson,   his   Life,   Writings   and   Philosophy.      Ed.   2, 

Boston,  1882. 
Unitarianism  in  America.     Boston,  1903. 
Cooper,  James  Fennimore. 

Homeward  Bound.     Vol.  18  of  the  complete  works,  New  York,  1856- 

1857. 
Home  as  Found.     Vol.   19  of  the  complete  works,  New  York,   1856- 

1857. 
A  Letter  to  his  Countrymen.     New  York,  1834. 
Cousin,  Victor. 

Cours  de  l'histoire  de  la  philosophic  moderne.     lere  et  2me  serie,  Paris, 

1846-1847. 
Pu  vrai,  du  beau  et  du  bien.     5me  edition,  Paris,  1856. 
Introduction  a  1  'histoire  de  la  philosophic.     4me  edition,  Paris,  1861. 
Fragments  philosophiques.     5me  edition,  volume  III  des  (Euvres  com- 
pletes, Paris,  1866. 
Introduction  to  the  History  of  Philosophy,  by  V    Cousin;   translated 
from  the  French  by  H.  G.  Linberg.     Boston,  1832. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisrm  495 

Damiron,  Ph. 

Essai   sur   l'histoire   de   la  philosophic   en  France  au   19me  sieele.     2 
vols.,  ome  edition,  Bruxelles,  1835. 
Emerson,  Ralph  Waldo. 

Complete  Works.     Riverside  edition,  12  vols.,  Boston,  1903-1904.     Voir 
aussi  Alcott,  on  "Emerson." 
Fiske,  John. 

A  Century  of  Science.     Vol.  10  (Miscellaneous  writings),  Boston,  1902- 
1904. 
Fourier,  Francois  M.  C. 

GEuvres  completes.     6  vol.  in  3,  2me  et  3me  ed.,  Paris,  1841,  1848. 
The  Passions  of  the  Human  Soul;  translated  from  the  French  by  the 
Rev.  John  Reynell  Morell.     London  and  New  York,  1851. 
Frothingham,  Octavius  Brooks. 

Transcendentalism  in  New  England.     New  York,  1880. 

George  Ripley.     American  Men  of  Letters.     Boston,  1882.     Voir  aussi 

Parker. 
Theodore  Parker,  a  Biography.    American  Men  of  Letters.    New  York, 
1880. 
Fuller,  Margaret. 

Papers  on  Literature  and  Art.    Part  I,  New  York,  1846;  Part  II,  New 
York,  1848. 
Fuller  (Ossoli)  Margaret. 

Works;  edited  by  A.  B.  Fuller.     Boston,  1860. 
Woman  in  the  Nineteenth  Century.     Boston,  1860. 
Life  Without  and  Life  Within.     Boston,  1874. 
Memoirs  of  Margaret  Fuller  Ossoli.     2  vols.,  Boston,  1852. 
Gannett,  W.  C. 

The  Transcendental  Movement  in  New  England;   Extracts  from  the 
Memoirs  of  Ezra  Stiles  Gannett.     Chicago,  1889. 
Gerando,  Joseph  Marie  de,  Baron. 

Histoire  comparee  des  systemes  de  philosophie.     2me  ed.     Paris,  1822- 

23 
Du  perfectionnement  moral  et  de  1 'education  de  soi-meme.   2me  edition. 

Paris,   1826. 
Self -education;  or  the  Means  and  Art  of  Moral  Progress.    Transl.  from 
the    French    of    M.    le    Baron    Degerando,    par    Elizabeth    Peabody. 
Boston,  1830. 
Goddard,  Harold  Clarke. 

Studies  in  New  England  Transcendentalism.     New  York,  1908. 
Grund,  Francis  P. 

Die   Americaner,   in   ihren   moralischen,   politischen,   und   gesellschaft 
lichen  Verhaltnissen.     Stuttgart  und  Tubingen,  1837. 
Hawthorne,  Nathaniel. 

Blithedale   Romance.      Vol.   5   of   Complete   Works;   Boston   and   New 
York,  1909. 


496  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modern  Philology      [Vol.  4 

Hedge,  Frederic  Henry. 

Reason  in  Religion.     Boston,  1865. 
"Ways  of  the  Spirit,  and  Other  Essays.     Boston,  1873. 
Prose  Writers  of  Germany.    New  edition,  Philadelphia,  1873. 
Henry,  C.  S. 

Elements  of  Psychology,  included  in  a  critical  examination  of  Locke's 
Essays  on  the  Human  Understanding ;  translated  from  the  Freaeh. 
Hartford,  1834. 
Higginsox,  Thomas  Wextworth. 

Old  Cambridge.     New  York  and  London,  1899. 

Margaret  Fuller  Ossoli.    American  Men  of  Letters.    Boston,  New  York, 
1884. 
Hillquit,  Morris. 

History  of  Socialism  in  the  United  States.     New  York  and  London, 
1903. 
Jones,  Adam  Leroy. 

Early  American  Philosophers.     New  York  and  Berlin,  1898. 
Jouffroy,  Theodore  Simon 

Melanges  philosophiques.     5me  edition,  Paris,  1875. 
Nouveaux  melanges  philosophiques.     3me  edition,  Paris,  1872. 
Cour  de  droit  naturel.     2  vols.,  5me  ed.,  Paris,  1876. 
Introduction   to   Ethics,   translated   from  the  French   of  Jouffroy,   by 
W.  H.  Channing.     2  vol.     Boston  and  Cambridge,  1858. 
Lavers,  Enoch  Cook. 

The  Moral  Philosophy  of  Richard  Price;  A  Thesis.    New  York,  1909. 
Leroux,  Pierre. 

De  l'humanite,  de  son  prineipe,  de  son  avenir.     2  vol.,  Paris,  1840. 
Lixberg,  H.  G. 

Introduction  to  the  History  of  Philosophy,  by  V.  Cousin;   Translated 
from  the  French.     Boston,  1832. 
Lowell,  James  Russell. 

Biglow  Papers.     Vol.  XI  of  complete  works,  Boston,  1904. 
Morell,  John  Reynell. 

The   Passions  of  the   Human   Soul.     Translated   from   the   French   of 
Francois  M.  C.  Fourier.     London  and  New  York,  1851. 
Nordhoff,  Ch. 

History  of  Communistic  Societies  in  the  United  States.     New  York, 
1875. 
Norton,  Charles  Eliot. 

Letters  of  .  .  .  ,  by  his  daughter,  Sara  Norton,  and  M.  A.  de  Wolfe 
Howe.     2  vols.,  Boston  and  New  York,  1913. 
No  yes,  J.  H. 

History  of  American  Socialisms.     Philadelphia,  1870. 
Parker,  Theodore. 

Works  of  .  .  .     Centen.  ed.,  15  vols.,  Boston,  1907-1911. 
View  of  Religion,  with  an  introduction  by  James  F.  Clarke.     Boston, 
1S90. 


1916]  Girard:  Du  transcendantalisme  497 

Peabody,  Elizabeth  Palmer. 

Kecord  of  Mr.  Alcott's  School.     3d  ed.,  Boston,  1874. 
Peabody,  Elizabeth 

Self -education;   or  The  Means  and  Art  of  Moral  Progress.     Tr.  from 
the  French  of  M.  le  Baron  Degerando.     Boston,  1830. 
Pierce,  Edward  L. 

Memoir  and  Letters  of  Charles  Sumner.     4  vol.,  Boston,  1893-94. 
Porter,  Noah. 

Philosophy   in   America    (in  Ueberweg's   History   of  Philosophy,   vol. 
II,  pp.  442-460. 

QUAYLE,   Miss   COXXELL 

Margaret  Fuller's  Attitude  Towards  France:  a  thesis.    MS.    Berkeley, 
1913. 

BlCHARDSOX,   C.   F. 

American  Literature.     2  vols.,  New  York  and  London,  1887-1889. 

BlLEY,  WOODBRIDGE  I. 

American  Philosophy.     New  York,  1901. 
Eipley,  George. 

Specimens  of  Foreign  Standard  Literature.     Vols.  I  and  II,  Boston, 
1838. 

Voir  Frothingham. 
Saixt-Simox,  Claude  H.  (comte  de). 

(Euvres  ehoisies.     3  vol.,  Paris,  1859. 
Sears,  Clara  Exdicott. 

Bronson  Alcott's  Fruitlands.     Boston  and  New  York,  1915. 
De  Stael,  Mme. 

De  1'Allemagne.     Nouv.  edition,  Paris,  1876. 

De   la   litterature   considered   dans   ses   rapports   avec   les   institutions 
sociales.    Edit.  Charpentier. 
Swift,  Lixdsay. 

Brook  Farm,  its  Members,  Scholars  and  Visitors.     London  and  New 
York,  1900. 
Tyler,  Moses  Coit. 

History  of  American  Literature.     2  vols.,  New  York  and  London,  1897. 
Thoreau,  Hexry  David. 

The  Writings   of  ...  .     Walden   edition,   20   vols.,   Boston   and   New 
York,  1906. 
Tocqueville,  Alexis. 

De  la  democratic  en  Amerique.     2  vol.,  3me  ed.,  Paris,  1850. 
Ueberweg 

History  of  Philosophy.     Vol.  II,  London,  1876. 
Van  Becelaere,  L. 

La   philosophie    en    Amerique   depuis    les    origines   jusqu'a   nos   jours 
(1607-1900).     New  York,  1904. 
Wendell,  Barrett. 

A  Literary  History  of  America.     Ed.  4.,  New  York,  1905. 


498  University  of  California  Publications  in  Modem  Philology      [Vol.  4 

Windsor,  Justin. 

The  Memorial  History  of  Boston,  edited  by  J.  Windsor.     4  vols.,  Bos- 
ton, 1882. 
Zee  van  deb. 

My  Friends  at  Brook  Farm.     New  York,  1912. 

REVUES  ET  PERIODIQUES" 

American  Museum.     Vols.  1-12,  Philadelphia,  1787-1792. 

American  Quarterly  Register.  Vols.  1-11,  13,  14,  Andover  and  Boston, 
1829-1839. 

American  Quarterly  Review.     Vols.  1-6,  Andover,  1827-1832. 

Blackwood's  Edinburgh  Magazine.     Vols.  1-68,  1817-1850. 

Catholic  World.  Vol.  74,  pp.  202-209  ("Jouffroy's  Warnings  and  Teach- 
ings of  the  Church  on  Anarchism");  vol.  93,  pp.  199-212  ("Haw- 
thorne and  Transcendentalism"). 

Christian  Examiner.     Vols.  1-50,  Boston,  New  York,  1824-51. 

Dial.     Vols.   1-4,  Boston,  1840-1844. 

Edinburgh  Review.     Vols.  1-92,  1803-1850. 

General  Repository  and  Review.     Cambridge,  1812-1813. 

Massachusetts  Quarterly  Review.     Vols.  1-3,  Boston,  1847-1850. 

Monthly  Anthology  and  Boston  Review.     Boston,  1804-1811. 

Museum  of  Foreign  Literature,  Science  and  Art.    Philadelphia,  1822-1842. 

Nation.  Vol.  60,  p.  27  ("Victor  Cousin  and  the  United  States");  vol. 
97,  p.  288  ("French  Prophets  of  Yesterday,"  by  A.  L.  Guerard). 

New  England  Magazine.    Vols.  1-7,  Boston,  1831-1834. 

North  American  Review.     Vols.  9-71,  Boston,  1819-50. 

Quarterly  Christian  Spectator.     Vols.  1-10,  New  Haven,  1829-39. 

87  Generalement  parlant,  nous  n  'avons  consulte  celles  des  revues  et 
ceux  des  periodiques  indiques  ci-dessus  dont  la  publication  se  prolonge  au 
dela  de  1850,  que  jusqu'a  cette  derniere  date. 

On  s'etonnera  peut-etre  de  ne  point  voir  figurer  dans  notre  liste  The 
Harbinger,  The  Liberator  et  la  Revue  Encyclopedique.  Les  revues  en  ques- 
tion, qui  du  reste  n  'interessent  le  transcendantalisme  que  sous  son  aspect 
social,  ne  se  trouvant  dans  aucune  des  bibliotheques  auxquelles  nous  avons 
eu  acces,  il  ne  nous  a  pas  encore  ete  possible  de  les  consulter. 


NOTE 

Certaines   diffieultes   de   composition   typographique   n  'ont   pas  permis 
1  'emploi  de  lettres  majuscules  surmontees  d  'un  accent. 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  PUBLICATIONS— (Continued) 

Vol.  2.  1.  Some  Textual  Criticisms  on  the  Eighth  Book  of  the  De  Vita  Caesarum 
of  Suetonius,  by  William  Hardy  Alexander.  Pp.  1-33.  November, 
1908    _ „ _       .30 

2.  Cicero's  Emowledge  of  Lucretius 's  Poem,  by  William  A.  Merrill.    Pp. 

35-42.     September,  1909  „ _„ _      .10 

3.  The  Conspiracy  at  Borne  in  66-65  B.  C,  by  H.  C.  Nurting.    January, 

1910    „ „ „„       .10 

4.  On  the  Contracted  Genitive  in  I  in  Latin,  by  William  A.  Merrill.    Pp. 

57-79.     February,  1910  _ .' _.      .25 

5.  Epaphos  and  the  Egyptian  Apis,  by  Ivan  M.  Lihforth.     Pp.  81-92. 

August,   1910  _ __ 10 

6.  Studies  in  the  Text  of  Lucretius,  by  William  A.  Merrill.    Pp.  93-149. 

June,   1911   _ 50 

7.  The  Separation  of  the  Attributive  Adjective  from  its  Substantive  in 

Plautus,  by  Winthrop  L.  Keep.    Pp.  151-164.    June,  1911 15 

8.  The    'Oapio-rvs     of   Theocritus,   by   Edward  B.   Clapp.     Pp.   165-171. 

October,    1911 15 

9.  Notes  on  the  Text  of  the  Corpus  Tibullianum,  by  Monroe  E.  Deutsch. 

Pp.  173-226.  June,   1912 50 

10.  The  Archetype  of  Lucretius,   by  William  A.  Merrill.     Pp.  227-235. 

November,  1913  „ 10 

11.  Corruption  in   the   Manuscripts  of  Lucretius,  by  William  A.  Merrill. 

Pp.   237-253.     August,   1914   15 

12.  Proposed  Emendations  of  Lucretius,  by  William  A.  Merrill.    Pp.  255- 

256.    December,  1914  .„ 05 

13.  Greek  and  Latin  Glyconics,  by  Leon  Josiah  Richardson.    Pp.  257-265. 

September,  1915 10 

14.  The  Plot  to  Murder  Caesar  on  the  Bridge,  by  Monroe  E.  Deutsch.    Pp. 

267-278.    January,  1916  10 

15.  Greek  Acting  in  the  Fifth  Century,  by  James  Turney  Allen.    Pp.  279- 

289.     March,  1916 10 

16.  On  Terence,   Adelphoe  511-516,   by  Clinton  C.   Conrad.     Pp.  291-303. 

May,  1916  15 

Index  in  press. 

VoL  3.  1.  Criticism  of  the  Text  of  Lucretius  with  Suggestions  for  its  Improve- 
ment, Part  I,  Books  I-III,  by  William  A.  Merrill.  Pp.  1-46.  January, 

1916  45 

2.  Criticism  of  the  Text  of  Lucretius  with  Suggestions  for  its  Improvement, 

Part  II,  Books  IV- VI,  by  William  A.  Merrill.    Pp.  47-133.    April,  1916     .85 


HOME  USE 

CIRCULATION  DEPARTMENT 

MAIN  LIBRARY 

This  book  is  due  on  the  last  date  stamped  below. 
1 -month  loans  may  be  renewed  by  calling  642-3405. 
6-month  loans  may  be  recharged  by  bringing  books 

to  Circulation  Desk. 
Renewals  and  recharges  may  be  made  4  days  prior 

to  due  date. 

ALL  BOOKS  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  RECALL  7  DAYS 

AFTER  DATE  CHECKED  OUT. 


31  «*    AUG17BBI 


MAY  0  8   2007 


LD21 — A-40m-8,'75 
(S7737L) 


General  Library 

University  of  California 

Berkeley 


\ 


U.C.  BERKELEY  LIBRARIE 

■mi 

CQ0bflm57M 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  LIBRARY 


•>      "    I 


ilil 

1 

1 

ijei^t-*  j  *  -?*;»  *ff|;t{f  j^i'I*?*;*;  jl?^*t  ^*«  ?*?#  jf;£*#|||»| 

'/,■ 

ijjljj* 

«u< 


I 


§ 

IjiiP    j  illi  |h!||  |m! 

^HSSIi^^^^HB^^^^^II^B 

Ill 

\ 

wMv 

