UNIVERSITY 
OF  FLORIDA 
LIBRARIES 


4^ 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2011  with  funding  from 

LYRASIS  Members  and  Sloan  Foundation 


http://www.archive.org/details/philosophyofliteOOinburk 


THE  PHILOSOPHY 
OF  LITERARY  FORM 


THE 

PHILOSOPHY 

OF 

LITERARY  FORM 

STUDIES   IN    SYMBOLIC    ACTION 


BY  KENNETH  BURKE 


LOUISIANA 

STATE  UNIVERSITY  PRESS 

1941 


COPYRIGHT,    1941 

BY    LOUISIANA 

STATE    UNIVERSITY    PRESS 


"0 


MANUFACTURED    IN 

THE    UNITED    STATES    OF    AMERICA 


TO  J.  S.  WATSON,  JR. 

Out  of  these  several  years 
Since  the  days  of  The  Dial 
Amicably  indeed 


FOREWORD 


THESE  pieces  are  selections  from  work  done  in  the  Thir- 
ties, a  decade  so  changeable  that  I  at  first  thought  of  assem- 
bling them  under  the  title,  "While  Everything  Flows." 

T|ieir  primary  interest  is  in  speculation  on  the  nature  of 
linguistic,  or  symbolic,  or  literary  action — and  in  a  search 
for  more  precise  ways  of  locating  or  defining  such  action. 

Words  are  aspects  of  a  much  wider  communicative  con- 
text, most  of  which  is  not  verbal  at  all.  Yet  words  also  have 
a  nature  peculiarly  their  own.  And  when  discussing  them 
as  modes  of  action,  we  must  consider  both  this  nature  as 
words  in  themselves  and  the  nature  they  get  from  the  non- 
verbal scenes  that  support  their  acts.  I  shall  be  happy  if  the 
reader  can  say  of  this  book  that,  while  always  considering 
words  as  acts  upon  a  scene,  it  avoids  the  excess  of  environ- 
mentalist schools  which  are  usually  so  eager  to  trace  the  re- 
lationships between  act  and  scene  that  they  neglect  to  trace 
the  structure  of  the  act  itself. 

However,  it  is  not  my  intention  here  to  discuss  the  in- 
ternalities  of  a  work's  structure  in  the  sense  of  a  reporter 
who  would  inform  about  a  work's  subject,  plot,  background, 
the  relationships  among  its  characters,  etc.  I  am  more  con- 
cerned with  the  general  problems  of  internal  structure  and 
act-scene  relationships — and  I  introduce  reference  to  par- 
ticular poems,  novels,  or  dramas  as  illustrative  material 
rather  than  as  central  theme.  Thus  the  reader  who  wants  the 
specific  criticism  of  books  might  be  more  disappointed  than 

vii 


FOREWORD 

the  reader  who  wants  a  theory  of  the  criticism  of  books  (a 
theory  that  should  be  applicable,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  any 
specific  cases). 

As  for  analysis  focused  upon  one  work,  probably  my  article 
on  Hitler's  Mein  Kampf  is  the  most  complete  example  in 
these  pages,  with  the  references  to  the  writings  of  Coleridge 
(whom  I  hope  to  treat  later  at  greater  length  in  a  separate 
volume)  probably  coming  next.  The  study  of  Julius  Caesar 
as  a  device  for  the  arousing  and  fulfilling  of  expectations 
in  an  audience,  might  fall  within  this  class,  if  the  reader  is 
not  led  by  its  tone  to  assign  it  the  quality  of  a  tour  de  force. 
And  I  have  included  in  an  appendix  some  reviews  that,  while 
selected  because  in  my  opinion  they  clarified  some  aspect 
or  other  of  my  position,  are  by  the  nature  of  the  case  cen- 
tered about  some  one  formal  object. 

I  might  give  an  illustration  as  to  the  way  in  which  the  two 
modes  of  literary  substance  (the  substance  of  a  literary  act 
as  placed  upon  a  scene,  and  the  substance  of  the  act  within 
itself)  would  be  related.  Think  of  some  philosophic  school 
whose  members  were  using  a  given  set  of  identical  or  syn- 
onymous terms.  Now,  upon  analysis,  we  should  find  that 
there  are  certain  purely  internal  relationships  prevailing 
among  these  terms.  By  reason  of  such  purely  internal  rela- 
tionships, it  is  logically  possible  to  make  certain  recombina- 
tions among  the  terms,  or  to  reduce  certain  of  the  terms  to 
others,  or  by  reason  of  certain  ambiguities  or  overlaps  among 
the  terms  to  so  manipulate  them  as  to  derive  many  important 
changes  of  emphasis  or  conclusion  from  them.  To  discuss  the 
intrinsic  nature  of  such  philosophies,  and  to  do  so  in  a  pene- 
trating way  and  not  as  a  mere  reporter,  one  should  have  to 
discuss  these  technical  possibilities  and  relate  the  given  phi- 

viii 


FOREWORD 

losopher's  strategy  to  them.  Such  considerations  would  pro- 
vide an  active  way  of  treating  the  work's  nature  in  itself. 
However,  on  considering  the  work  as  placed  in  biological  or 
historical  contexts,  we  might  well  find  that  the  given  phi- 
losopher, by  manipulating  the  possibilities  of  emphasis  in 
one  way  rather  than  another,  was  able  symbolically  to  enroll 
himself  in  one  social  alliance,  with  its  peculiar  set  of  ex- 
pectancies, rather  than  another.  Here  we  should  see  what 
participation  in  a  Cause  caused  his  work,  by  what  Movement 
it  was  motivated,  on  what  sub-stance  it  made  its  stand.  The 
act  being  an  act  upon  a  scene,  its  placing  by  reference  to 
scene  would  be  needed  for  a  complete  substantiation  of  this 
philosophy  as  an  act. 

However,  an  act  may  be  placed  in  many  contexts,  and 
when  the  character  of  the  context  changes,  the  character  of 
the  act  changes  accordingly.  Thus,  the  same  book  may  be 
in  a  supply-and-demand  context  for  a  bookseller,  a  morality- 
immorality  context  for  a  censor,  a  classicism-romanticism 
context  for  a  literary  historian,  the  "substance"  of  the  book 
changing  in  accordance  with  the  point  of  view  from  which 
we  would  consider  it.  Ideally,  the  substance  of  the  work,  "in 
itself,"  would  probably  require  a  statement  that  would  fit 
the  characterization  of  the  book  in  any  and  every  context. 
But  in  actuality  there  is  a  tendency  for  writers  to  feel  that 
they  have  characterized  a  work  intrinsically  when  they  apply 
epithets  of  approval  or  disapproval  to  it  (appreciation),  or 
refer  to  it  in  tonalities  meant  to  be  in  tune  with  the  tonalities 
of  the  book  itself  (impressionism),  or  tell  what  it's  about  (re- 
viewing), or  classify  it  (bibliography).  All  of  these  ways  have 
value — but  the  way  primarily  tried  here,  more  explicitly  in 
the  pieces  written  towards  the  end  of  the  decade  (they  are 
not  arranged  in  chronological  order)  is  this:  To  identify  the 

ix 


FOREWORD 

substance  of  a  particular  literary  act  by  a  theory  of  literary 
action  in  general. 

The  quickest  way  to  sloganize  this  theory  is  to  say  that  it 
is  got  by  treating  the  terms  "dramatic"  and  "dialectical"  as 
synonymous.  So  it  is,  as  you  prefer,  to  be  called  either  "dia- 
lectical criticism"  or  "dramatic  criticism  methodized"  (i.  e., 
a  reasoned  method  for  treating  art  as  act).  I  invite  the  reader, 
at  this  point  in  our  exposition,  to  accept  whichever  of  the 
two  terms  he  feels  more  at  home  with,  and  to  reserve  until 
later  his  decision  as  to  whether  the  proposed  labels  are  just, 
and  whether  they  can  legitimately  be  treated  as  synonymous. 

Wherever  an  author  would  use  an  example  to  illustrate  a 
general  statement,  the  best  manufacturing  arrangement 
would  probably  be  a  kind  of  loose-leaf  volume.  For  since  the 
only  purpose  of  illustrations  is  to  make  things  seem  clear, 
and  since  those  topics  seem  clearest  which  are  foremost  in 
the  public's  attention  at  the  moment,  one  might  hope  to 
seem  clearest  by  "opportunistically"  changing  his  illustra- 
tions in  accordance  with  the  shifts  of  public  attention.  Some 
speculators  may  get  around  this  by  analyzing  human  acts  in 
terms  of  animals,  mechanisms,  or  picturable  designs.  Which 
is  effective  so  far  as  it  goes.  For  if  you  build  your  generaliza- 
tion about  a  chicken,  people  tend  to  feel  that  it  is  eternally 
valid;  but  if  you  build  your  generalization  about  some  topic 
or  controversy,  they  tend  to  feel  that  the  generalization  dies 
as  the  topic  or  controversy  drops  out  of  focus.  Yet  a  "dra- 
matic" or  "dialectical"  perspective  would  vow  one  to  hold 
that  generalizations  getting  their  cues  from  animals,  mech- 
anisms, or  picturable  designs  are  not  using  examples  suffi- 
ciently complex  to  be  representative  of  human  acts  and 
meanings.  And  so  far  as  I  am  concerned,  I  find  nothing  more 


FOREWORD 

"contemporary"  than  the  records  of  heresies,  sects,  and 
schisms  that  flourished  centuries  ago,  which  are  by  no  means 
gone  with  their  times,  but  are  mutatis  mutandis  all  vigorous 
today. 

But  with  a  loose-leaf  arrangement,  I  might,  at  this  precise 
moment,  for  instance,  seek  to  "point  up"  my  distinction  be- 
tween realism  and  naturalism  (as  discussed  in  my  section  on 
"Ritual  Drama  as  'Hub'  ")  by  trying  to  show  how  it  might 
be  applied  in  considering  Archibald  MacLeish's  attack 
upon  the  war  novelists.  For  I  think  that  this  distinction 
lies  blurred  beneath  the  altercation — and  that,  had  it  been 
made,  much  fury,  unnecessary  and  off  the  subject,  could 
have  been  avoided  by  both  the  outraged  and  the  outrager. 
(My  reference  to  MacLeish  here,  however,  is  not  to  be  con- 
fused with  my  reference  to  him  in  the  essay,  "War,  Response, 
and  Contradiction,"  concerning  an  article  on  the  subject 
written  by  MacLeish  in  1933.) 

I  would  also,  in  a  loose-leaf  arrangement,  have  wanted  to 
weave  in  references  to  Richard  Wright's  disturbingly  im- 
pressive novel,  Native  Son,  a  book  that  offers  a  whole  new 
avenue  to  follow  in  developing  my  remarks  on  the  ambigui- 
ties of  power.  Indeed,  as  I  have  spoken  briefly  of  what  might 
be  called  the  "Stance"  family  (terms  for  location,  support, 
placing,  "substance"),  so  I  might  note  this  other  major  clan, 
the  "Power"  family.  It  is  composed  of  many  members:  so- 
cial power,  sexual,  physical,  political,  military,  commercial, 
monetary,  mental,  moral,  stylistic  (powers  of  grace,  grandeur, 
vituperation,  precision) — powers  of  emancipation,  liberaliz- 
ation, separation  ("loosing"),  powers  of  fascination  and  fas- 
cization  ("binding,"  as  in  Mann's  "Mario  and  the  Magi- 
cian")— and  powers  of  wisdom,  understanding,  knowledge. 
There  are  ways  whereby,  owing  to  the  nature  of  synecdoche, 

xi 


FOREWORD 

any  member  of  this  family  may  come  to  do  vicarious  service 
for  any  other  member,  or  for  the  family  as  a  whole — so  that 
one  may  marry  or  rape  by  politics,  wage  war  in  argument,  be 
mentally  superior  by  the  insignia  of  social  privilege,  bind 
or  loose  by  knowledge,  show  one's  muscle  or  enhance  one's 
stature  by  financial  income,  etc.,  in  whatever  permutations 
and  combinations  one  cares  to  contrive.  In  particular,  in 
Native  Son,  I  should  have  liked  to  discuss  the  author's  treat- 
ment of  the  interrelationships  among  the  powers:  physical, 
sexual,  social,  and  monetary — with  at  the  end  a  transcend- 
ence into  the  powers  of  understanding. 

However,  there  is  no  end  to  the  possibilities  of  such  "loose- 
leafing."  So,  through  wanting  to  change,  or  to  make  last- 
minute  comment  upon,  nearly  everything,  I  found  it  easy 
to  compromise  by  changing  almost  nothing,  and  confining 
my  additions  to  a  few  references  in  the  hitherto  unpublished 
matter,  and  in  cases  where  the  "pointing  up"  could  be  done 
briefly.  Accordingly,  the  reader  may  encounter  the  same  for- 
mulations put  forward  with  a  different  attitude,  or  used  for 
different  purposes,  at  different  points  in  our  text.  He  may 
treat  this  as  mere  inconsistency  (to  be  forgiven,  in  so  far  as  it 
can  be  forgiven,  on  the  grounds  that  the  years  were  change- 
able and  that  the  development  of  one's  thought  might  be  ex- 
pected to  change  somewhat  with  them).  For  the  most  part, 
however,  I  should  prefer  not  to  be  "forgiven"  these  "incon- 
sistencies." For  we  may  properly  expect  a  form  to  function 
differently  when  it  is  a  part  of  one  context  than  when  it  is  a 
part  of  some  other  context — and  often,  on  closer  inspection, 
the  different  functions  will  be  found  not  to  "refute"  one  an- 
other, but  simply  to  be  modified  by  their  difference  in  posi- 
tion. 

All  of  these  items  have  been  previously  published,  except 

xii 


FOREWORD 

the  first  and  longest,  of  which  only  a  small  excerpt  appeared 
before  (in  The  Southern  Review).  The  publications  in 
which  the  others  appeared  are  listed  herewith: 

"Semantic  and  Poetic  Meaning,"  The  Southern  Review; 
"The  Virtues  and  Limitations  of  Debunking,"  The  South- 
ern Review;  "The  Rhetoric  of  Hitler's  'Battle,'  '  The 
Southern  Review;  "The  Calling  of  the  Tune,"  The  Ken- 
yon  Review;  "War,  Response,  and  Contradiction,"  The 
Symposium;  "Freud — and  the  Analysis  of  Poetry,"  The 
American  Journal  of  Sociology. 

"Literature  as  Equipment  for  Living,"  Direction; 
"Twelve  Propositions  on  the  Relation  Between  Economics 
and  Psychology,"  Science  &  Society;  "The  Nature  of  Art 
Under  Capitalism,"  The  Nation;  "Reading  While  You 
Run,"  The  New  Republic;  "Antony  in  Behalf  of  the  Play," 
The  Southern  Review;  "Trial  Translation  (From  Twelfth 
Night),"  The  New  Age  Weekly;  "Caldwell:  Maker  of  Gro- 
tesques," The  New  Republic;  "The  Negro's  Pattern  of 
Life,"  The  Saturday  Review  of  Literature;  "On  Musicality 
in  Verse,"  Poetry. 

"George  Herbert  Mead,"  The  New  Republic;  "Intel- 
ligence as  a  Good,"  The  New  Republic;  "Liberalism's  Fam- 
ily Tree,"  The  New  Republic;  "Monads — on  the  Make," 
The  New  Republic;  "Quantity  and  Quality,"  The  New 
Republic;  "Semantics  in  Demotic,"  The  New  Republic; 
"Corrosive  Without  Corrective,"  The  New  Masses;  "The 
Constants  of  Social  Relativity,"  The  Nation;  "The  Second 
Study  of  Middletown,"  The  Neiv  Masses;  "A  Recipe  for 
Worship,"  The  Nation. 

"Hypergelasticism  Exposed,"  Hound  and  Horn;  "Main- 
springs of  Character,"  The  New  Republic;  "Exceptional 
Improvisation,"  Poetry;  "Exceptional  Book,"  The  New  Re- 

xiii 


FOREWORD 

public;  "Permanence  and  Change,"  The  New  Republic; 
"By  Ice,  Fire,  or  Decay?"  The  New  Republic;  "Fearing's 
New  Poems,"  The  New  Masses;  "Growth  Among  the 
Ruins,"  The  New  Republic;  "Letters  to  the  Editor — On 
Psychology,"  The  American  Journal  of  Sociology;  "Letters 
to  the  Editor — On  Dialectic,"  The  American  Teacher; 
"Dialectician's  Hymn,"  The  University  Review. 

Above  all,  I  wish  to  state  here  publicly  my  great  debt  of 
gratitude  to  Professor  Leonard  Brown,  of  the  Department 
of  English  at  Syracuse  University,  who  obligingly  and  in- 
geniously found  time  in  the  midst  of  many  activities  to  pre- 
pare the  index  of  this  volume.  And  I  do  regret  that  the 
state  of  the  proofs  at  the  time  when  these  far  too  inadequate 
words  were  inserted  required  my  acknowledgment  to  come 
at  the  end,  rather  than  the  beginning,  of  my  Foreword. 
The  titular  monograph  in  the  book  was  reworked  from 
material  I  originally  presented  as  a  visiting  lecturer  in  con- 
nection with  a  course  conducted  by  Professor  Brown  at 
Syracuse. 

KENNETH    BURKE 


xiv 


CONTENTS 


I.    THE   PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 


II.    LONGER  ARTICLES 

SEMANTIC  AND   POETIC  MEANING  138 

THE  VIRTUES  AND   LIMITATIONS  OF  DEBUNKING  168 

THE   RHETORIC  OF  HITLER'S  "BATTLE''  191 

THE   CALLING  OF  THE  TUNE  221 

WAR,  RESPONSE,  AND   CONTRADICTION  234 

FREUD— AND   THE   ANALYSIS   OF  POETRY  258 


III.     SHORTER  ARTICLES 

LITERATURE  AS   EQUIPMENT   FOR  LIVING  293 

TWELVE   PROPOSITIONS  305 

THE   NATURE  OF  ART   UNDER   CAPITALISM  314 

READING  WHILE  YOU   RUN  323 

ANTONY  IN   BEHALF  OF  THE   PLAY  329 

TRIAL  TRANSLATION  344 

CALDWELL:    MAKER   OF  GROTESQUES  350 

THE   NEGRO'S   PATTERN   OF  LIFE  361 

ON   MUSICALITY   IN   VERSE  369 


IV.    APPENDIX 

GEORGE   HERBERT  MEAD  379 

INTELLIGENCE  AS  A   GOOD  382 

LIBERALISM'S  FAMILY  TREE  388 

MONADS— ON  THE   MAKE  392 

QUANTITY  AND   QUALITY  394 

SEMANTICS  IN   DEMOTIC  396 

CORROSIVE  WITHOUT  CORRECTIVE  400 

THE   CONSTANTS  OF  SOCIAL   RELATIVITY  404 

THE  SECOND   STUDY   OF  MIDDLETOWN  407 

A   RECIPE  FOR  WORSHIP  411 

HYPERGELASTICISM   EXPOSED  414 

XV 


CONTENTS 


MAINSPRINGS   OF   CHARACTER 
EXCEPTIONAL   IMPROVISATION 
EXCEPTIONAL   BOOK 
PERMANENCE  AND   CHANGE 
BY   ICE,   FIRE,   OR   DECAY? 
FEARING'S   NEW    POEMS 
GROWTH   AMONG   THE   RUINS 
LETTERS  TO   THE   EDITOR 

1.  ON    PSYCHOLOGY 

2.  ON    DIALECTIC 
DIALECTICIANS   HYMN 


418 
422 
424 
427 
429 
433 
435 
438 
438 
443 
447 


INDEX 


451 


XVI 


THE   PHILOSOPHY 
OF  LITERARY   FORM 


THE  PHILOSOPHY 
OF  LITERARY  FORM 


SITUATIONS     AND     STRATEGIES 

LET  us  suppose  that  I  ask  you:  "What  did  the  man  say?" 
And  that  you  answer:  "He  said  'yes.'  "  You  still  do  not  know 
what  the  man  said.  You  would  not  know  unless  you  knew 
more  about  the  situation,  and  about  the  remarks  that  pre- 
ceded his  answer. 

Critical  and  imaginative  works  are  answers  to  questions 
posed  by  the  situation  in  which  they  arose.  They  are  not 
merely  answers,  they  are  strategic  answers,  stylized  answers. 
For  there  is  a  difference  in  style  or  strategy,  if  one  says  "yes" 
in  tonalities  that  imply  "thank  God"  or  in  tonalities  that 
imply  "alas!"  So  I  should  propose  an  initial  working  distinc- 
tion between  "strategies"  and  "situations,"  whereby  we 
think  of  poetry  (I  here  use  the  term  to  include  any  work 
of  critical  or  imaginative  cast)  as  the  adopting  of  various 
strategies  for  the  encompassing  of  situations.  These  strate- 
gies size  up  the  situations,  name  their  structure  and  out- 
standing ingredients,  and  name  them  in  a  way  that  contains 
an  attitude  towards  them. 

This  point  of  view  does  not,  by  any  means,  vow  us  to  per- 
sonal or  historical  subjectivism.  The  situations  are  real;  the 
strategies  for  handling  them  have  public  content;  and  in  so 
far  as  situations  overlap  from  individual  to  individual,  or 
from  one  historical  period  to  another,  the  strategies  possess 
universal  relevance. 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

Situations  do  overlap,  if  only  because  men  now  have  the 
same  neural  and  muscular  structure  as  men  who  have  left 
their  records  from  past  ages.  We  and  they  are  in  much  the 
same  biological  situation.  Furthermore,  even  the  concrete 
details  of  social  texture  have  a  great  measure  of  overlap.  And 
the  nature  of  the  human  mind  itself,  with  the  function  of 
abstraction  rooted  in  the  nature  of  language,  also  provides 
us  with  "levels  of  generalization"  (to  employ  Korzybski's 
term)  by  which  situations  greatly  different  in  their  particu- 
larities may  be  felt  to  belong  in  the  same  class  (to  have  a 
common  substance  or  essence). 

Consider  a  proverb,  for  instance.  Think  of  the  endless 
variety  of  situations,  distinct  in  their  particularities,  which 
this  proverb  may  "size  up,"  or  attitudinally  name.  To  ex- 
amine one  of  my  favorites:  "Whether  the  pitcher  strikes  the 
stone,  or  the  stone  the  pitcher,  it's  bad  for  the  pitcher." 
Think  of  some  primitive  society  in  which  an  incipient  phi- 
losopher, in  disfavor  with  the  priests,  attempted  to  criticize 
their  lore.  They  are  powerful,  he  is  by  comparison  weak. 
And  they  control  all  the  channels  of  power.  Hence,  whether 
they  attack  him  or  he  attacks  them,  he  is  the  loser.  And  he 
could  quite  adequately  size  up  this  situation  by  saying, 
"Whether  the  pitcher  strikes  the  stone,  or  the  stone  the 
pitcher,  it's  bad  for  the  pitcher."  Or  Aristophanes  could 
well  have  used  it,  in  describing  his  motivation  when,  under 
the  threats  of  political  dictatorship,  he  gave  up  the  lam- 
pooning of  political  figures  and  used  the  harmless  Socrates 
as  his  goat  instead.  Socrates  was  propounding  new  values 
— and  Aristophanes,  by  aligning  himself  with  conservative 
values,  against  the  materially  powerless  dialectician,  could 
himself  take  on  the  role  of  the  stone  in  the  stone-pitcher 
ratio.  Or  the  proverb  could  be  employed  to  name  the  pre- 
2 


LITERARY    FORM 

dicament  of  a  man  in  Hitler's  Germany  who  might  come 
forward  with  an  argument,  however  well  reasoned,  against 
Hitler.  Or  a  local  clerk  would  find  the  proverb  apt,  if  he 
would  make  public  sport  of  his  boss.  These  situations  are  all 
distinct  in  their  particularities;  each  occurs  in  a  totally 
different  texture  of  history;  yet  all  are  classifiable  together 
under  the  generalizing  head  of  the  same  proverb. 

Might  we  think  of  poetry  as  complex  variants  and  recom- 
binations of  such  material  as  we  find  in  proverbs?  There 
are  situations  typical  and  recurrent  enough  for  men  to  feel 
the  need  of  having  a  name  for  them.  In  sophisticated  work, 
this  naming  is  done  with  great  complexity.  Think  of  how 
much  modern  psychology,  for  instance,  might  be  placed 
as  a  highly  alembicated  way  of  seeing  through  to  the  end 
the  formulation  now  become  proverbial:  "The  wish  is 
father  to  the  thought."  Or  think  of  how  much  in  the  Hege- 
lian dialectic  might  be  summed  up,  as  an  over-all  title,  in 
the  idealist  Coleridge's  favorite  proverb,  "Extremes  meet." 
And  in  all  work,  as  in  proverbs,  the  naming  is  done  "strate- 
gically" or  "stylistically,"  in  modes  that  embody  attitudes, 
of  resignation,  solace,  vengeance,  expectancy,  etc. 

MAGIC     AND    RELIGION 

In  addition  to  the  leads  or  cues,  for  the  analysis  of  poetic 
strategy,  that  we  get  from  proverbs,  with  their  strongly 
realistic  element,  we  may  get  leads  from  magic  and  reli- 
gion. 

Magic,  verbal  coercion,  establishment  or  management  by 
decree,  says,  in  effect:  "  'Let  there  be' — and  there  was."  And 
men  share  in  the  magical  resources  of  some  power  by  speak- 
ing "in  the  name  of"  that  power.  As  Ogden  and  Richards 
remind  us  in  The  Meaning  of  Meaning;  modern  Biblical 
3 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

scholarship  has  disclosed  that  we  should  interpret  in  this  wise 
the  formula,  "taking  the  name  of  the  Lord  in  vain."  The 
formula  referred  to  the  offense  of  conjuring  for  malign 
purposes  by  uttering  one's  magical  decrees  "in  the  name  of" 
the  Lord. 

The  device,  in  attenuated  and  alembicated  variants,  is 
not  so  dead,  or  even  so  impotent,  as  one  might  at  first  sup- 
pose. Today,  for  instance,  we  are  facing  problems  that  arise 
from  an  attempt  to  fit  private  enterprise  with  the  require- 
ments of  the  citizenry  as  a  whole.  Think  of  the  difference 
in  magic  if  you  confront  this  situation  in  the  strategic  name 
of  "planned  economy"  or,  employing  a  different  strategy, 
in  the  name  of  "regimentation." 

The  magical  decree  is  implicit  in  all  language;  for  the 
mere  act  of  naming  an  object  or  situation  decrees  that  it  is 
to  be  singled  out  as  such-and-such  rather  than  as  something- 
other.  Hence,  I  think  that  an  attempt  to  eliminate  magic, 
in  this  sense,  would  involve  us  in  the  elimination  of  vo- 
cabulary itself  as  a  way  of  sizing  up  reality.  Rather,  what 
we  may  need  is  correct  magic,  magic  whose  decrees  about 
the  naming  of  real  situations  is  the  closest  possible  approxi- 
mation to  the  situation  named  (with  the  greater  accuracy 
of  approximation  being  supplied  by  the  "collective  revela- 
tion" of  testing  and  discussion). 

If  magic  says,  "Let  there  be  such  and  such,"  religion  says, 
"Please  do  such  and  such."  The  decree  of  magic,  the  peti- 
tion of  prayer.  Freud  has  discussed  the  "optative  as  indica- 
tive" in  dreams  (where  "would  that  it  were"  is  stylistically 
rephrased:  "it  is" — as  when  the  dreamer,  desiring  to  be  rid 
of  a  certain  person,  dreams  that  this  person  is  departing). 
Neo-positivism  has  done  much  in  revealing  the  secret  com- 
mands and  exhortations  in  words — as  Edward  M.  Maisel, 
4 


LITERARY    FORM 

in  An  Anatomy  of  Literature,  reveals  in  a  quotation  from 
Carnap,  noting  how  the  apparent  historical  creed:  "There 
is  only  one  race  of  superior  men,  say  the  race  of  Hottentots, 
and  this  race  alone  is  worthy  of  ruling  other  races.  Mem- 
bers of  these  other  races  are  inferior,"  should  be  analytically 
translated  as:  "Members  of  the  race  of  Hottentots!  Unite 
and  battle  to  dominate  the  other  races!"  The  "facts"  of  the 
historical  assertion  here  are  but  a  strategy  of  inducement 
(apparently  describing  the  scene  for  the  action  of  a  drama, 
they  are  themselves  a  dramatic  act  prodding  to  a  further 
dramatic  act). 

It  is  difficult  to  keep  the  magical  decree  and  the  religious 
petition  totally  distinct.  Though  the  distinction  between 
the  coercive  command  and  the  conducive  request  is  clear 
enough  in  its  extremes,  there  are  many  borderline  cases. 
Ordinarily,  we  find  three  ingredients  interwoven  in  a  given 
utterance:  the  spell  and  the  counter-spell,  the  curse;  the 
prayer  and  the  prayer-in-reverse,  oath,  indictment,  invec- 
tive; the  dream,  and  the  dream  gone  sour,  nightmare. 

So,  taking  this  ingredient  as  common  to  all  verbal  action, 
we  might  make  the  following  three  subdivisions  for  the 
analysis  of  an  act  in  poetry: 

dream  (the  unconscious  or  subconscious  factors  in  a 
poem — the  factor  slighted  by  the  Aristotelians, 
though  by  no  means  left  unconsidered,  as  John 
Crowe  Ransom's  chapters  on  "The  Cathartic  Prin- 
ciple" and  "The  Mimetic  Principle"  in  The  World's 
Body  make  apparent), 

prayer  (the  communicative  functions  of  a  poem,  which 
leads  us  into  the  many  considerations  of  form,  since 
the  poet's  inducements  can  lead  us  to  participate  in 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

his  poem  only  in  so  far  as  his  work  has  a  public,  or 
communicative,  structure — the  factor  slighted  by 
the  various  expressionistic  doctrines,  the  Art  for 
Art's  Sake  school  stressing  the  work  solely  as  the 
poet's  externalizing  of  himself,  or  naming  of  his 
own  peculiar  number), 
chart  (the  realistic  sizing-up  of  situations  that  is  some- 
times explicit,  sometimes  implicit,  in  poetic  strate- 
gies— the  factor  that  Richards  and  the  psychoana- 
lysts have  slighted). 

It  may  annoy  some  persons  that  I  take  the  realistic  chart 
to  possess  "magical"  ingredients.  That  is,  if  you  size  up  a 
situation  in  the  name  of  regimentation  you  decree  it  a  dif- 
ferent essence  than  if  you  sized  it  up  in  the  name  of  planned 
economy.  The  choice  here  is  not  a  choice  between  magic 
and  no  magic,  but  a  choice  between  magics  that  vary  in 
their  degree  of  approximation  to  the  truth.  In  both  these 
magics,  for  instance,  there  is  usually  an  assumption  (or 
implied  fiat)  to  the  effect  that  increased  industrial  produc- 
tion is  itself  a  good.  But  when  we  recall  that  every  increase 
in  the  consumption  of  natural  resources  could  with  equal 
relevance  be  characterized  as  a  corresponding  increase  in 
the  destruction  of  natural  resources,  we  can  glimpse  the 
opportunity  for  a  totally  different  magic  here,  that  would 
size  up  the  situation  by  a  different  quality  of  namings.  And 
when  I  read  recently  of  an  estimate  that  more  soil  had  been 
lost  through  erosion  in  the  last  twenty  years  than  in  all  the 
rest  of  human  history,  I  began  to  ask  whether  either  the 
"regimentation"  magic  or  the  "planned  economy"  magic 
is  a  close  enough  approximate  for  the  naming  of  the  situa- 
tion in  which  we  now  are.  The  "regimentation"  magic  is 
6 


LITERARY    FORM 

on  its  face  by  far  the  worse,  since  its  implicit  demand,  "Let 
us  have  no  collective  control  over  production,"  calls  for  as 
much  wastage  as  is  possible  in  an  ailing  property  structure. 
But  this  wastage  is,  ironically,  curtailed  mainly  by  the 
maladjustments  of  the  very  property  structure  that  the 
"regimentation"  magic  would  perpetuate.  The  "planned 
economy"  magic  is  much  superior,  but  only  when  corrected 
by  a  criticism  of  "new  needs."  It  is  a  menace  when  com- 
bined, as  it  usually  is,  with  a  doctrine  that  increased  in- 
dustrial output  is  synonymous  with  "progress."  The  irony 
is  that  a  readjusted  property  structure  would  make  pos- 
sible greater  wastage  (or  "consumption")  than  our  present 
ailing  one.  Hence,  the  magic  that  made  greater  production 
possible  would  be  the  worst  of  calamities  unless  corrected 
by  another  magic  decreeing  that  many  of  our  present  kinds 
of  industrial  output  are  culturally  sinister. 

The  ideal  magic  is  that  in  which  our  assertions  (or  verbal 
decrees)  as  to  the  nature  of  the  situation  come  closest  to  a 
correct  gauging  of  that  situation  as  it  actually  is.  Any  ap- 
proximate chart  is  a  "decree."  Only  a  completely  accurate 
chart  would  dissolve  magic,  by  making  the  structure  of 
names  identical  with  the  structure  named.  This  latter  is  the 
kind  of  chart  that  Spinoza,  in  his  doctrine  of  the  "adequate 
idea,"  selected  as  the  goal  of  philosophy,  uniting  free  will 
and  determinism,  since  the  "So  be  it"  is  identical  with  the 
"It  must  be  so"  and  the  "It  is  so."  A  completely  adequate 
chart  would,  of  course,  be  possible  only  to  an  infinite,  omnis- 
cient mind. 

"It  is  (morally  or  technically)  wrong"  is  a  stylized  variant 
of  "Don't  do  it."  However,  to  note  this  translation  of  a  com- 
mand into  the  idiom  of  realism  must  not  be  taken  as  identi- 
cal with  a  "debunking"  of  the  verbal  assertion.  For  a  com- 
7 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
mand  may  be  a  good  command,  involving  a  strategy  that  is 
quite  accurate  for  encompassing  the  situation.  Science 
simultaneously  admits  and  conceals  the  element  of  fiat  in  a 
calculus  by  Latinistic  stylization,  as  when  it  explicitly  states 
the  commands  basic  to  a  calculus  but  couches  these  in  terms 
of  "postulates"  (postulatum:  command,  demand),  a  kind  of 
"provisory  command,"  in  keeping  with  the  customary  trend 
towards  attenuation  in  scientific  stylizations.  It  replaces 
"big  commands"  with  a  whole  lot  of  "little  commands"  that 
fall  across  one  another  on  the  bias,  quite  as  modern  poetry 
has  replaced  the  "big  spell"  with  a  lot  of  "little  spells,"  each 
work  pulling  us  in  a  different  direction  and  these  directions 
tending  to  cancel  off  one  another,  as  with  the  conflicting  in- 
terests of  a  parliament. 

SYMBOLIC     ACTION 

We  might  sum  all  this  up  by  saying  that  poetry,  or  any 
verbal  act,  is  to  be  considered  as  "symbolic  action."  But 
though  I  must  use  this  term,  I  object  strenuously  to  having 
the  general  perspective  labeled  as  "symbolism."  I  recognize 
that  people  like  to  label,  that  labeling  comforts  them  by 
getting  things  placed.  But  I  object  to  "symbolism"  as  a 
label,  because  it  suggests  too  close  a  link  with  a  particular 
school  of  poetry,  the  Symbolist  Movement,  and  usually  im- 
plies the  unreality  of  the  world  in  which  we  live,  as  though 
nothing  could  be  what  it  is,  but  must  always  be  something 
else  (as  though  a  house  could  never  be  a  house,  but  must  be, 
let  us  say,  the  concealed  surrogate  for  a  woman,  or  as  though 
the  woman  one  marries  could  never  be  the  woman  one 
marries,  but  must  be  a  surrogate  for  one's  mother,  etc.). 

Still,  there  is  a  difference,  and  a  radical  difference,  be- 
tween building  a  house  and  writing  a  poem  about  building 
8 


LITERARY    FORM 

a  house — and  a  poem  about  having  children  by  marriage  is 
not  the  same  thing  as  having  children  by  marriage.  There 
are  practical  acts,  and  there  are  symbolic  acts  (nor  is  the 
distinction,  clear  enough  in  its  extremes,  to  be  dropped 
simply  because  there  is  a  borderline  area  wherein  many 
practical  acts  take  on  a  symbolic  ingredient,  as  one  may  buy 
a  certain  commodity  not  merely  to  use  it,  but  also  because 
its  possession  testifies  to  his  enrollment  in  a  certain  stratum 
of  society). 

The_symboHc .-act  js^ the  dancing  of  an  attitude  (a  point 
that  Richards  has  brought  out,  though  I  should  want  to 
revise  his  position  to  the  extent  of  noting  that  in  Richards' 
doctrines  the  attitude  is  pictured  as  too  sparse  in  realistic 
content).  In  this  attitudinizing  of  the  poem,  the  whole  body 
may  finally  become  involved,  in  ways  suggested  by  the  doc- 
trines of  behaviorism.  The  correlation  between  mind  and 
body  here  is  neatly  conveyed  in  two  remarks  by  Hazlitt,  con- 
cerning Coleridge: 

I  observed  that  he  continually  crossed  me  on  the 
way  by  shifting  from  one  side  of  the  foot-path  to  the 
other.  This  struck  me  as  an  odd  movement;  but  I  did 
not  at  that  time  connect  it  with  any  instability  of  pur- 
pose or  involuntary  change  of  principle,  as  I  have  done 
since.  .  .  . 

There  is  a  chaunt  in  the  recitation  both  of  Cole- 
ridge and  Wordsworth,  which  acts  as  a  spell  upon  the 
hearer,  and  disarms  the  judgment.  Perhaps  they  have 
deceived  themselves  by  making  habitual  use  of  this 
ambiguous  accompaniment.  Coleridge's  manner  is 
more  full,  animated,  and  varied;  Wordsworth's  more 
equable,  sustained,  and  internal.  The  one  might  be 
9 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

termed  more  dramatic,  the  other  more  lyrical.  Cole- 
ridge has  told  me  that  he  himself  liked  to  compose  in 
walking  over  uneven  ground,  or  breaking  through  the 
straggling  branches  of  a  copse-wood;  whereas  Words- 
worth always  wrote  (if  he  could)  walking  up  and  down 
a  straight  gravel-walk,  or  in  some  spot  where  the  con- 
tinuity of  his  verse  met  with  no  collateral  interrup- 
tion.1 

We  might  also  cite  from  a  letter  of  Hopkins,  mentioned 
by  R.  P.  Blackmur  in  The  Kenyon  Review  (Winter,  1939): 

As  there  is  something  of  the  "old  Adam"  in  all  but  the 
holiest  men  and  in  them  at  least  enough  to  make  them 
understand  it  in  others,  so  there  is  an  old  Adam  of  bar- 
barism, boyishness,  wildness,  rawness,  rankness,  the 
disreputable,  the  unrefined  in  the  refined  and  edu- 
cated. It  is  that  that  I  meant  by  tykishness  (a  tyke  is  a  stray 
sly  unowned  dog). 

Do  we  not  glimpse  the  labyrinthine  mind  of  Coleridge,  the 
puzzle  in  its  pace,  "danced"  in  the  act  of  walking — and  do 
we  not  glimpse  behind  the  agitated  rhythm  of  Hopkins' 
verse,  the  conflict  between  the  priest  and  the  "tyke,"  with 
the  jerkiness  of  his  lines  "symbolically  enacting"  the  mental 
conflict?  So  we  today  seem  to  immunize  ourselves  to  the 
arhythmic  quality  of  both  traffic  and  accountancy  by  a  dis- 
trust of  the  lullaby  and  the  rocking  cradle  as  formative 
stylistic  equipment  for  our  children. 

The  accumulating  lore  on  the  nature  of  "psychogenic 
illnesses"  has  revealed  that  something  so  "practical"  as  a 

1  The  quotations  are  lifted  from  Lawrence  Hanson's  excellent  study,  The  Life  of 
S.  T.  Coleridge. 

IO 


LITERARY    FORM 

bodily  ailment  may  be  a  "symbolic"  act  on  the  part  of  the 
body  which,  in  this  materialization,  dances  a  corresponding 
state  of  mind,  reordering  the  glandular  and  neural  behavior 
of  the  organism  in  obedience  to  mind-body  correspondences, 
quite  as  the  formal  dancer  reorders  his  externally  observ- 
able gesturing  to  match  his  attitudes.  Thus,  I  know  of  a 
man  who,  going  to  a  dentist,  was  proud  of  the  calmness 
with  which  he  took  his  punishment.  But  after  the  session 
was  ended,  the  dentist  said  to  him:  "I  observe  that  you  are 
very  much  afraid  of  me.  For  I  have  noted  that,  when  pa- 
tients are  frightened,  their  saliva  becomes  thicker,  more 
sticky.  And  yours  was  exceptionally  so."  Which  would  in- 
dicate that,  while  the  man  in  the  dentist's  chair  was  "danc- 
ing an  attitude  of  calmness"  on  the  public  level,  as  a  social 
facade,  on  the  purely  bodily  or  biological  level  his  salivary 
glands  were  "dancing  his  true  attitude."  For  he  was  ap- 
prehensive of  pain,  and  his  glandular  secretions  "said  so." 
Similarly  I  have  read  that  there  is  an  especially  high  inci- 
dence of  stomach  ulcers  among  taxi  drivers — an  occupa- 
tional illness  that  would  not  seem  to  be  accounted  for 
merely  by  poor  and  irregular  meals,  since  these  are  equally 
the  lot  of  workers  at  other  kinds  of  jobs.  Do  we  not  see, 
rather,  a  bodily  response  to  the  intensely  arhythmic  quality 
of  the  work  itself,  the  irritation  in  the  continual  jagginess 
of  traffic,  all  puzzle  and  no  pace,  and  only  the  timing  of  the 
cylinders  performing  with  regularity,  as  if  all  the  ritual  of 
the  occupational  act  had  been  drained  off,  into  the  routine 
of  the  motor's  explosions  and  revolutions? 

In  such  ways,  the  whole  body  is  involved  in  an  enact- 
ment. And  we  might  make  up  a  hypothetical  illustration  of 
this  sort:  imagine  a  poet  who,  on  perfectly  rational  grounds 
rejecting  the  political  and  social  authority  of  the  powers 
1 1 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
that  be,  wrote  poems  enacting  this  attitude  of  rejection. 
This  position  we  might  call  his  symbolic  act  on  the  abstract 
level.  On  the  personal,  or  intimate  level,  he  might  embody 
the  same  attitude  in  a  vindictive  style  (as  so  much  of 
modern  work,  proud  of  its  emancipation  from  prayer,  has 
got  this  emancipation  dubiously,  by  simply  substituting 
prayer-in-reverse,  the  oath).  And  on  the  biological  level, 
this  same  attitude  might  be  enacted  in  the  imagery  of  ex- 
cretion, as  with  the  scene  of  vomiting  with  which  Farrell 
ends  the  second  volume  of  his  Studs  Lonigan  trilogy. 

Sir  Richard  Paget's  theory  of  gesture  speech  gives  us  ink- 
lings of  the  way  in  which  such  enactment  might  involve 
even  the  selection  of  words  themselves  on  a  basis  of  tonality. 
According  to  Paget's  theory,  language  arose  in  this  wise:  If 
a  man  is  firmly  gripping  something,  the  muscles  of  his 
tongue  and  throat  adopt  a  position  in  conformity  with  the 
muscles  with  which  he  performs  the  act  of  gripping.  He 
does  not  merely  grip  with  his  hands;  he  "grips  all  over." 
Thus,  in  conformity  with  the  act  of  gripping,  he  would 
simultaneously  grip  with  his  mouth,  by  closing  his  lips 
firmly.  If,  now,  he  uttered  a  sound  with  his  lips  in  this  posi- 
tion, the  only  sound  he  could  utter  would  be  m.  M  there- 
fore is  the  sound  you  get  when  you  "give  voice"  to  the  pos- 
ture of  gripping.  Hence,  m  would  be  the  proper  tonality 
corresponding  to  the  act  of  gripping,  as  in  contact  words 
like  "maul,"  "mix,"  "mammae,"  and  "slam."  The  relation 
between  sound  and  sense  here  would  not  be  an  onomato- 
poetic  one,  as  with  a  word  like  "sizzle,"  but  it  would  rather 
be  like  that  between  the  visual  designs  on  a  sound  track 
and  the  auditory  vibrations  that  arise  when  the  instrument 
has  "given  voice"  to  these  designs  (except  that,  in  the  case 
12 


LITERARY    FORM 

of  human  speech,  the  designs  would  be  those  of  the  tongue 

and  throat,  plastic  rather  than  graphic). 

The  great  resistance  to  Paget's  theory  doubtless  arises  in 
large  part  from  the  conservatism  of  philological  specialists. 
They  have  an  investment  in  other  theories — and  only  the 
most  pliant  among  them  are  likely  to  see  around  the  corner 
of  their  received  ideas  (Paget  cites  remarks  by  Jespersen 
that  hit  about  the  edges  of  his  theory).  But  some  of  the  re- 
sistance, I  think,  also  arises  from  an  error  in  Paget's  strategy 
of  presentation.  He  offers  his  theory  as  a  philological  one, 
whereas  it  should  be  offered  as  a  contribution  to  poetics. 
Philology,  because  of  its  involvement  in  historicism,  really 
deals  with  the  ways  in  ivhich,  if  Paget's  theory  were  ioo  per 
cent  correct,  such  linguistic  mimesis  as  he  is  discussing 
would  become  obscured  by  historical  accretions. 

Let  us  suppose,  for  instance,  that  /  is  an  excellent  lin- 
guistic gesture  for  the  p  sound  prolonged,  and  the  lips 
take  the  posture  of  p  in  the  act  of  slitting — hence,  the  p 
is  preserved  in  the  word  itself,  in  "spittle"  and  "puke,"  and 
in  words  of  repulsion  and  repugnance.  The  close  phonetic 
relation  between  p  and  /  is  observed  in  the  German  ex- 
clamation of  repugnance,  "pjui."  Mencken,  in  The  Ameri- 
can Language,  cites  two  synthetic  words  by  Winchell  that 
perfectly  exemplify  this  faugh-/:  "phfft"  and  "foofff."  These 
are  "nonsense  syllables"  Winchell  has  invented  to  convey, 
by  tonality  alone,  the  idea  that  is  denoted  in  our  word 
"pest."  Here,  since  the  inventor  has  complete  freedom, 
there  are  no  historical  accidents  of  language  to  complicate 
his  mimesis,  so  he  can  symbolically  spit  long  and  hard. 

Imagine,  however,  a  new  movement  arising  in  history — 
and,  as  is  so  often  the  case  with  new  movements,  imagine 
that  it  is  named  by  the  enemy  (as  "liberalism"  was  named 
13 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
by  the  Jesuits,  to  convey  connotations  of  "licentiousness," 
in  contrast  with  "servile,"  to  convey  connotations  of 
"loyal").  If  we  hypothetically  grant  the  existence  of  a 
faugh-/,  we  should  discover  that  the  enemy  danced  the 
attitude  towards  this  new  movement  with  perfect  accuracy 
in  naming  the  new  movement  "phfftism"  or  "foofffism." 
However,  as  so  often  happens  in  history,  the  advocates  of 
"foofffism"  accepted  the  term,  and  set  out  to  "live  it  down" 
(as  with  "liberalism" — and  also  "nihilism,"  which  was 
named  by  the  enemy,  but  in  the  late  nineteenth  century 
recruited  nihilistic  heroes).  And  let  us  finally  imagine, 
as  so  often  happens  in  history,  that  the  new  movement,  be- 
ginning in  great  disrepute,  finally  triumphs  and  becomes 
the  norm.  Though  the  attitude  towards  the  name  is  now 
changed,  the  name  itself  may  be  retained,  and  so  we  may 
find  earnest  fellows  saying,  "I  hereby  solemnly  swear  al- 
legiance to  the  flag  of  foofffism." 

Now,  philology  would  deal  with  these  historical  develop- 
ments whereby  the  originally  accurate  mimesis  became 
obscured — and  it  is  in  this  sense  that,  to  my  way  of  think- 
ing, Paget's  theory  should  be  presented  as  a  contribution 
not  to  philology,  but  to  poetics.  The  greatest  attempt  at  a 
poetics  of  sound  is  Dante's  De  Vulgari  Eloquio,  which  is 
equally  concerned  with  a  rational  selection  of  a  poetic  lan- 
guage, its  systematic  isolation  from  a  common  speech  that 
had  developed  by  the  hazards  of  historical  accretion.  And 
Paget's  theory  should,  I  contend,  be  viewed  as  a  corre- 
sponding enterprise,  except  that  now,  given  the  change  of 
reference  from  Dante's  day  to  ours,  the  theory  is  grounded 
on  a  biological  or  naturalistic  base. 

A  possible  way  whereby  these  theories  might  be  em- 
pirically tested  is  this:  We  should  begin  by  asking  whether 
14 


LITERARY    FORM 

our  system  of  phonetic  recording  might  be  inaccurate. 
Might  there,  for  instance,  be  at  least  tivo  sounds  of  f, 
whereas  both  were  recorded  in  writing  as  the  same  sound 
(as  in  French  three  different  sounds  of  e  are  explicitly  indi- 
cated, whereas  the  English  ways  of  recording  e  do  not  indi- 
cate such  differences)?  Why,  in  the  light  of  such  evidence, 
should  we  assume  that  there  is  but  one  /  simply  because 
our  mode  of  recording  this  sound  indicates  but  one?  Might 
there,  let  us  say,  be  a  faugh-/  and  a  flower-/  (with  the  second 
trying  to  bring  out  the  smoothness  of  /,  as  were  one  to  re- 
cite sympathetically  Coleridge's  line,  "Flowers  are  lovely, 
love  is  flowerlike,"  and  the  other  trying  to  stress  its  expul- 
sive quality,  as  when  I  once  heard  a  reactionary  orator,  spew- 
ing forth  a  spray  of  spittle,  fulminate  against  "fiery,  fren- 
zied fanatics")?  I  do  not  know  how  accurate  the  electric 
recordings  of  a  sound-track  are,  or  how  close  a  microscopic 
analysis  of  them  could  be:  but  if  these  recordings  are  ac- 
curate enough,  and  if  microscopic  analysis  can  be  refined  to 
the  point  of  discriminating  very  minute  differences  in  the 
design  of  the  sound-track,  one  could  select  flower-passages 
and  faugh-passages,  have  them  recited  by  a  skilled  actor 
(without  telling  him  of  the  theory),  take  an  electric  record- 
ing of  his  recitation,  and  then  examine  the  sound-track 
for  quantitative  evidence  (in  the  design  of  the  sound-track) 
of  a  distinction  in  /  not  indicated  by  our  present  conven- 
tions of  writing.  We  might  perhaps  more  accurately  use 
two  symbols,  thus:  /'  and  /".  It  should  be  noted,  hoivever,  that 
such  a  difference  would  not  be  absolute  and  constant.  That 
is,  one  might  pronounce  a  word  like  "of"  differently  if  it 
appeared  expressively  in  a  "flower"  context  than  if  it  ap- 
peared in  a  "faugh"  context.  Which  would  again  take  us 
out  of  philology  into  poetics. 
*5 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

Similarly,  inasmuch  as  b  is  midway  between  mammal  m 
and  the  repulsion  p,  we  might  expect  it  to  have  an  ra-like 
sound  on  some  occasions  and  a  p-like  sound  on  others. 
Thus,  in  the  lines 

O  blasphemy!  to  mingle  fiendish  deeds 
With  blessedness! 

we  could  expect  "blasphemy"  to  approximate  "^lasphemy," 
and  "blessedness"  to  be  more  like  "ralessedness,"  the  ex- 
plosive possibilities  of  b  being  purposely  coached  in  the 
first  case  and  tempered  in  the  second.  (Incidentally,  no 
words  are  more  like  home  to  an  idealist  philosopher  than 
"subject"  and  "object" — and  we  are  told  that  when  Cole- 
ridge had  fallen  into  one  of  his  famous  monologues,  he 
pronounced  them  "sumject"  and  "omject.") 

Our  gradual  change  of  emphasis  from  the  spoken  to  the 
documentary  (with  many  symbols  of  mathematics  and  logic 
having  no  tonal  associations  whatsoever,  being  hardly  other 
than  designs)  has  made  increasingly  for  a  purely  ocular 
style — so  that  children  now  are  sometimes  even  trained  to 
read  wholly  by  eye.  And  there  are  indeed  many  essayistic 
styles  that  profit  greatly  if  one  can  master  the  art  of  reading 
them  without  hearing  them  at  all.  For  they  are  as  arhythmic 
as  traffic  itself,  and  can  even  give  one  a  palpitation  of  the 
heart  if  he  still  reads  with  an  encumbrance  of  auditory 
imagery,  and  so  accommodates  his  bodily  responses  to  their 
total  tonal  aimlessness.  But  whatever  may  be  the  value  of 
such  styles,  for  bookkeeping  purposes,  they  have  wandered 
far  afield  from  the  gesturing  of  heard  poetic  speech.  Para- 
doxically, their  greatest  accuracy,  from  the  standpoint  of 
mimesis,  is  in  their  very  absence  of  such,  for  by  this  absence 
16 


LITERARY   FORM 

they  conform  with  our  sedentary  trend  from  the  bodily  to 
the  abstract  (our  secular  variant  of  the  spiritual).  It  is  the 
style  of  men  and  women  whose  occupations  have  become 
dissociated  from  the  bodily  level,  and  whose  expression 
accordingly  does  not  arise  from  a  physical  act  as  the  rhythms 
of  a  Negro  work  song  arise  from  the  rhythms  of  Negroes  at 
work- 
in  any  event,  as  regards  the  correlation  between  mind 
and  body,  we  may  note  for  future  application  in  this  essay, 
that  the  poet  will  naturally  tend  to  write  about  that  which 
most  deeply  engrosses  him — and  nothing  more  deeply  en- 
grosses a  man  than  his  burdens,  including  those  of  a 
physical  nature,  such  as  disease.  We  win  by  capitalizing  on 
our  debts,  by  turning  our  liabilities  into  assets,  by  using  our 
burdens  as  a  basis  of  insight.  And  so  the  poet  may  come 
to  have  a  "vested  interest"  in  his  handicaps;  these  handicaps 
may  become  an  integral  part  of  his  method;  and  in  so  far 
as  his  style  grows  out  of  a  disease,  his  loyalty  to  it  may 
reinforce  the  disease.  It  is  a  matter  that  Thomas  Mann  has 
often  been  concerned  with.  And  it  bears  again  upon  the 
subject  of  "symbolic  action,"  with  the  poet's  burdens  sym- 
bolic of  his  style,  and  his  style  symbolic  of  his  burdens.  I 
think  we  should  not  be  far  wrong  if,  seeking  the  area  where 
states  of  mind  are  best  available  to  empirical  observation, 
we  sought  for  correlations  between  styles  and  physical 
disease  (particularly  since  there  is  no  discomfiture,  how- 
ever mental  in  origin,  that  does  not  have  its  physiological 
correlates).  So  we  might  look  for  "dropsical"  styles  (Ches- 
terton), "asthmatic"  (Proust),  "phthisic"  (Mann),  "apo- 
plectic" (Flaubert),  "blind"  (Milton),  etc.  The  one  great 
objection  to  such  a  nosological  mode  of  classification  is  that 
17 


-   .- 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
it  leads  to  a  Max  Nordau  mode  of  equating  genius  with 
degeneracy.  This  is  not  the  case,  however,  if  one  properly 
discounts  his  terminology,  reminding  himself  that  the  true 
locus  of  assertion  is  not  in  the  disease,  but  in  the  structural 
powers  by  which  the  poet  encompasses  it.  The  disease,  seen 
from  this  point  of  view,  is  hardly  more  than  the  caricature 
of  the  man,  the  oversimplification  of  his  act — hence,  most 
easily  observable  because  it  is  an  oversimplification.  This 
oversimplifying  indicator  is  deceptive  unless  its  obvious- 
ness as  a  caricature  is  discounted. 

ANOTHER     WORD     FOR     ''.SYMBOLIC" 

I  respect  the  resistance  to  the  notion  of  "symbolic  action," 
since  this  resistance  is  based  upon  a  healthy  distrust  of  the 
irrational  (the  only  question  being  whether  we  are  rational 
enough  in  merely  trying  to  outlaw  the  irrational  by  magical 
decree,  and  whether  we  might  be  more  rational  in  confront- 
ing it).  Respecting  the  resistance,  I  want  to  offer  some  con- 
siderations that  may  ease  the  pain.  One  of  the  most  "ra- 
tional" of  words  today  is  our  word  statistical,  as  applied  for 
instance  to  the  thorough  rationality  of  an  actuarial  table. 
So  I  want  to  see  whether  we  might  be  justified  in  borrowing 
this  word  for  our  purposes,  in  considering  at  least  some 
aspects  of  "symbolic  action."  I  propose  to  offer  reasons  why 
we  might  equate  the  word  symbolic  with  the  word  statisti- 
cal. 

Mr.  Q  writes  a  novel.  He  has  a  score  to  settle  with  the 
world,  and  he  settles  it  on  paper,  symbolically.  Let  us  sup- 
pose that  his  novel  is  about  a  deserving  individual  in  con- 
flict with  an  undeserving  society.  He  writes  the  work  from 
the  standpoint  of  his  unique  engrossments.  However,  as 
Malcolm  Cowley  has  pointed  out,  there  is  a  whole  class  of 
18 


LITERARY    FORM 

such  novels.  And  if  we  take  them  all  together,  in  the  lump, 
"statistically,"  they  become  about  as  unique  as  various  ob- 
jects all  going  downstream  together  in  a  flood.  They  are  "all 
doing  the  same" — they  become  but  different  individuations 
of  a  common  paradigm.  As  so  considered,  they  become 
"symbolic"  of  something — they  become  "representative"  of 
a  social  trend. 

Or  consider  the  matter  from  another  angle.  One  puts  his 
arms  on  the  table.  This  is  a  unique,  real  act — and  one  is 
perfectly  conscious  of  what  he  is  doing.  There  is,  to  be  sure, 
a  lot  that  he  doesn't  know:  he  is  not  conscious,  for  instance, 
of  the  infinite  muscular  and  nervous  adjustments  that  ac- 
company the  act.  But  he  is  perfectly  conscious  of  the  over- 
all event:  he  knows  what  he  is  doing.  Yet  I  have  heard  a 
portrait-painter  exclaim  at  such  a  moment,  when  a  man 
placed  his  arm  on  the  table:  "There — just  like  that — that's 
your  characteristic  posture."  Thus,  for  this  painter,  the  act 
had  become  "symbolic,"  "representative"  of  the  man's 
character.  There  was  a  kind  of  informal  fact-gathering  that 
had  been  going  on,  as  the  painter  had  observed  this  man — 
and  his  exclamation  was  a  kind  of  informally  statistical  con- 
clusion. 

But  let's  make  one  more  try  at  taking  the  fearsomeness 
out  of  the  word  "symbolic."  John  Crowe  Ransom,  in  The 
World's  Body,  makes  some  praiseworthy  attempts  to  reaf- 
firm a  realistic  basis  for  poetry;  as  part  of  his  tactics,  he 
would  present  even  the  lyric  poem  as  the  enactment  of  a 
dramatic  role.  The  poet  is  "play-acting" — and  so  we  must 
not  consider  his  work  as  merely  a  symbolization  of  his 
private  problems.  Well  and  good.  But  let  us  suppose  that  a 
writer  has  piled  up  a  considerable  body  of  work;  and  upon 
inspecting  the  lot,  we  find  that  there  has  been  great  se- 

*9 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
lectivity  in  his  adoption  of  dramatic  roles.  We  find  that  his 
roles  have  not  been  like  "repertory  acting,"  but  like  "type 
casting."  This  "statistical"  view  of  his  work,  in  disclosing  a 
trend,  puts  us  upon  the  track  of  the  ways  in  which  his 
selection  of  role  is  a  "symbolic  act."  He  is  like  a  man  with  a 
tic,  who  spasmodically  blinks  his  eyes  when  certain  sub- 
jects are  mentioned.  If  you  kept  a  list  of  these  subjects, 
noting  what  was  said  each  time  he  spasmodically  blinked 
his  eyes,  you  would  find  what  the  tic  was  "symbolic"  of. 

Now,  the  work  of  every  writer  contains  a  set  of  implicit 
equations.  He  uses  "associational  clusters."  And  you  may, 
by  examining  his  work,  find  "what  goes  with  what"  in  these 
clusters — what  kinds  of  acts  and  images  and  personalities 
and  situations  go  with  his  notions  of  heroism,  villainy,  con- 
solation, despair,  etc.  And  though  he  be  perfectly  conscious 
of  the  act  of  writing,  conscious  of  selecting  a  certain  kind 
of  imagery  to  reinforce  a  certain  kind  of  mood,  etc.,  he  can- 
not possibly  be  conscious  of  the  interrelationships  among 
all  these  equations.  Afterwards,  by  inspecting  his  work 
"statistically,"  we  or  he  may  disclose  by  objective  citation  the 
structure  of  motivation  operating  here.  There  is  no  need  to 
"supply"  motives.  The  interrelationships  themselves  are  his 
motives.  For  they  are  his  situation;  and  situation  is  but  an- 
other word  for  motives.  The  motivation  out  of  which  he 
writes  is  synonymous  with  the  structural  way  in  which  he  puts 
events  and  values  together  when  he  writes;  and  however  con- 
sciously he  may  go  about  such  work,  there  is  a  kind  of  general- 
ization about  these  interrelations  that  he  could  not  have  been 
conscious  of,  since  the  generalization  could  be  made  by  the 
kind  of  inspection  that  is  possible  only  after  the  completion 
of  the  work. 

At  present  I  am  attempting  such  a  "symbolic"  analysis 
20 


LITERARY    FORM 

of  Coleridge's  writings.  His  highly  complex  mind  makes  the 
job  of  charting  difficult.  The  associational  interweavings 
are  so  manifold  as  to  present  quite  a  problem  in  book- 
keeping. Thus,  even  if  my  method  were  hypothetically 
granted  to  be  correct,  it  is  as  though  one  invented  a  machine 
for  recovering  the  exact  course  each  person  had  taken  on 
passing  through  Times  Square.  Even  if  one's  machine  were 
completely  trustworthy,  he  would  have  difficulty  in  trying 
to  present,  on  a  design,  the  different  paths  taken.  The  lines 
would  merge  into  a  blot. 

However,  there  are  two  advantages  about  the  case  of 
Coleridge  that  make  the  job  worth  trying.  In  the  first  place, 
there  is  the  fact  that  he  left  so  full  a  record,  and  that  he 
employed  the  same  imagery  in  his  poems,  literary  criticism, 
political  and  religious  tracts,  letters,  lectures,  and  intro- 
spective jottings.  Thus  we  have  objective  bridges  for  get- 
ting from  one  area  to  another;  these  images  "pontificate" 
among  his  various  interests,  and  so  provide  us  with  a  maxi- 
mum opportunity  to  work  out  a  psychology  by  objective 
citation,  by  "scissor  work."  If  you  want  to  say  that  this 
equals  that,  you  have  the  imagery,  explicitly  shared  by  this 
and  that  in  common,  to  substantiate  the  claim.  In  fact,  a 
psychology  of  poetry,  so  conceived,  is  about  as  near  to  the 
use  of  objective,  empirical  evidence  as  even  the  physical 
sciences.  For  though  there  must  be  purely  theoretical 
grounds  for  selecting  some  interrelationships  rather  than 
others  as  more  significant,  the  interrelationships  themselves 
can  be  shown  by  citation  to  be  there. 

The  second  advantage  in  the  case  of  Coleridge  is  that, 
along  with  his  highly  complex  mind  (perhaps  one  of  the 
most  complex  that  has  left  us  a  full  record)  you  have  an 
easily  observable  simplification.  I  refer  to  the  burden  of  his 
21 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
drug  addiction.  Criticism  is  usually  up  against  a  problem  of 
this  sort:  The  critic  tries  to  explain  a  complexity  in  terms 
of  a  simplicity,  and  when  he  is  finished,  his  opponent  need 
but  answer:  "But  you  have  explained  a  complexity  in  terms 
of  a  simplicity,  and  a  simplicity  is  precisely  what  a  com- 
plexity is  not.  So  you  have  explained  something  in  terms  of 
what  it  isn't."  Explanation  entails  simplification;  and  any 
simplification  is  open  to  the  charge  of  "oversimplification." 
So  we  have  tried  to  explain  human  beings  in  terms  of 
mechanistic  psychology,  adults  in  terms  of  child  psychology, 
sophisticates  in  terms  of  primitive  psychology,  and  the 
normal  in  terms  of  abnormal  psychology — with  the  op- 
ponent's categorical  refutation  of  the  effort  implicit  in  the 
nature  of  the  effort  itself.  In  the  case  of  Coleridge's  enslave- 
ment to  his  drug,  however,  you  get  an  observable  simplifi- 
cation, a  burden  the  manifestations  of  which  can  be  trailed 
through  his  work — yet  at  the  same  time  you  have  him  left 
in  all  his  complexity,  and  so  may  observe  the  complex  ways 
in  which  this  burden  becomes  interwoven  with  his  many 
other  concerns. 

To  note  the  matter  of  symbolic  action,  however,  is  by  no 
means  to  involve  oneself  in  a  purely  subjectivist  position. 
There  are  respects  in  which  the  clusters  (or  "what  goes 
with  what")  are  private,  and  respects  in  which  they  are 
public.  Thus,  I  think  we  can,  by  analysis  of  the  "clusters" 
in  Coleridge's  work,  find  ingredients  in  the  figure  of  the 
Albatross  slain  in  "The  Ancient  Mariner"  that  are  peculiar 
to  Coleridge  (i.  e.,  the  figure  is  "doing  something  for  Cole- 
ridge" that  it  is  not  doing  for  anyone  else);  yet  the  intro- 
duction of  the  Albatross,  as  victim  of  a  crime  to  motivate 
the  sense  of  guilt  in  the  poem,  was  suggested  by  Words- 
worth. And  as  Lowes  has  shown  amply,  "The  Ancient 
22 


LITERARY    FORM 

Mariner"  also  drew  upon  legends  as  public  as  those  of  the 
Wandering  Jew  and  the  fratricide  of  Cain.  There  are  many 
points  at  which  we,  as  readers,  "cut  in" — otherwise  the 
poem  would  not  affect  us,  would  not  communicate.  But  to 
grasp  the  full  nature  of  the  symbolic  enactment  going  on  in 
the  poem,  we  must  study  the  interrelationships  disclosable 
by  a  study  of  Coleridge's  mind  itself.  If  a  critic  prefers  to  so 
restrict  the  rules  of  critical  analysis  that  these  private  ele- 
ments are  excluded,  that  is  his  right.  I  see  no  formal  or 
categorical  objection  to  criticism  so  conceived.  But  if  his 
interest  happens  to  be  in  the  structure  of  the  poetic  act,  he 
will  use  everything  that  is  available — and  would  even  con- 
sider it  a  kind  of  vandalism  to  exclude  certain  material 
that  Coleridge  has  left,  basing  such  exclusion  upon  some 
conventions  as  to  the  ideal  of  criticism.  The  main  ideal  of 
criticism,  as  I  conceive  it,  is  to  use  all  that  is  there  to  use. 
And  merely  because  some  ancient  author  has  left  us  scant 
biographical  material,  I  do  not  see  why  we  should  confine 
our  study  of  a  modern  author,  who  has  left  us  rich  bio- 
graphical material,  to  the  same  coordinates  as  we  should 
apply  in  studying  the  work  of  the  ancient  author.  If  there 
is  any  slogan  that  should  reign  among  critical  precepts,  it 
is  that  "circumstances  alter  occasions." 

However,  I  shall  try  to  show,  later  in  this  essay,  that  the 
perspective  which  I  employ  can  quite  naturally  include 
observations  as  to  the  structure  of  a  poem,  even  considered 
in  isolation,  and  regardless  of  the  poem's  bearing  upon 
symbolic  action  peculiar  to  the  poet. 

Maybe  we  could  clarify  the  relation  between  the  public 
act  and  the  private  act  in  this  way:  Suppose  that  we  began 
by  analyzing  the  structure  of  "The  Ancient  Mariner"  as 
though  we  did  not  know  one  single  detail  about  the  author, 
23 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

and  had  not  one  single  other  line  written  by  this  author. 
We  would  note  such  events  as  the  peripety  in  the  fourth 
part,  where  the  water  snakes  become  transubstantiated  (re- 
moved from  the  category  of  the  loathsome  into  the  cate- 
gory of  the  beautiful  and  blessed).  We  would  note  that  the 
Mariner  suffered  his  punishments  under  the  aegis  of  the 
Sun,  and  that  his  cure  was  effected  under  the  aegis  of  the 
Moon.  We  would  have  some  "equations"  to  work  on,  as 
the  Sun  is  "like  God's  own  head,"  and  the  "loon,"  whose 
cure  began  when  "the  moving  Moon  went  up  the  sky,"  was 
laved  by  a  curative  rain  that,  in  ending  the  state  of  drought, 
filled  "silly  buckets";  and  when  the  Mariner  entered  the 
Pilot's  boat  the  Pilot's  boy,  "who  now  doth  crazy  go,"  called 
him  the  Devil.  We  may  also  see  inklings  of  a  "problem  of 
marriage,"  in  the  setting  of  the  poem,  and  in  the  closing 
explicit  statement  as  to  a  preference  for  church  over  mar- 
riage. 

If  we  had  other  poems,  we  could  trail  down  these  equa- 
tions farther.  For  instance,  we  would  find  the  "guilt,  Sun 
at  noon,  problem  of  marriage"  equations  recurring.  If  we 
had  the  letters  and  introspective  jottings,  we  could  by 
imagistic  bridging  disclose  the  part  that  Coleridge's  strug- 
gles with  his  drug  played  in  the  "loon,  Moon,  silly,  crazy" 
equations  (as  Coleridge  in  despair  speaks  of  his  addiction 
as  idiocy,  talks  of  going  to  an  asylum  to  be  cured,  and  also 
employs  the  snake  image  with  reference  to  the  addiction). 
Now,  if  we  had  the  one  poem  alone,  we  could  note  some- 
thing like  a  dramatized  "problem  of  metaphysical  evil" 
(much  like  the  basis  of  Moby  Dick).  Given  other  poems, 
we  could  make  this  more  precise.  Given  biographical  ref- 
erence, we  could  also  show  the  part  played  by  his  drug  ad- 
24 


LITERARY    FORM 

diction  and  his  marital  difficulties  in  giving  this  general 

problem  explicit  content  for  Coleridge. 

This  would  not  vow  us  to  the  assertion  that  "you  cannot 
understand  'The  Ancient  Mariner'  unless  you  know  of 
Coleridge's  drug  addiction  and  marriage  problems."  You 
can  give  a  perfectly  accurate  account  of  its  structure  on  the 
basis  of  the  one  poem  alone.  But  in  studying  the  full  nature 
of  a  symbolic  act  you  are  entitled,  if  the  material  is  avail- 
able, to  disclose  also  the  things  that  the  act  is  doing  for  the 
poet  and  no  one  else.  Such  private  goads  stimulate  the  artist, 
yet  we  may  respond  to  imagery  of  guilt  from  totally  dif- 
ferent private  goads  of  our  own.  We  do  not  have  to  be  drug 
addicts  to  respond  to  the  guilt  of  a  drug  addict.  The  ad- 
diction is  private,  the  guilt  public.  It  is  in  such  ways  that 
the  private  and  public  areas  of  a  symbolic  act  at  once  over- 
lap and  diverge.  The  recording  has  omitted  some  of  these 
private  ingredients,  quite  as  it  has  omitted  the  exact  per- 
sonal way  in  which  Coleridge  recited  the  poem.  If  we 
happened  to  have  liked  Coleridge's  "chaunt,"  this  necessary 
omission  from  the  stage  directions  for  its  recital  is  a  loss; 
otherwise,  it  is  a  gain. 

OTHER     WORDS     FOR     "SYMBOLIC" 

It  may  have  been  noted  that,  while  equating  "symbolic" 
with  "statistical,"  I  also  brought  in  another  word:  "repre- 
sentative." "Statistical"  analysis  discloses  the  ways  in. which 
a  "symbolic"  act  is  "representative,"  as  Lady  Macbeth's 
washing  of  her  hands  after  the  crime  is  "representative"  of 
guilt.  This  moves  us  into  the  matter  of  synecdoche,  the 
figure  of  speech  wherein  the  part  is  used  for  the  whole,  the 
whole  for  the  part,  the  container  for  the  thing  contained, 

25 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

the  cause  for  the  effect,  the  effect  for  the  cause,  etc.  Simplest 

example:  "twenty  noses"  for  "twenty  men." 

The  more  I  examine  both  the  structure  of  poetry  and  the 
structure  of  human  relations  outside  of  poetry,  the  more  I 
become  convinced  that  this  is  the  "basic"  figure  of  speech, 
and  that  it  occurs  in  many  modes  besides  that  of  the  formal 
trope.  I  feel  it  to  be  no  mere  accident  of  language  that  we 
use  the  same  word  for  sensory,  artistic,  and  political  repre- 
sentation. A  tree,  for  instance,  is  an  infinity  of  events — and 
among  these  our  senses  abstract  certain  recordings  which 
"represent"  the  tree.  Nor  is  there  any  "illusion"  here.  In 
so  far  as  we  see  correctly,  and  do  not  mistake  something  else 
for  a  tree,  our  perceptions  do  really  represent  the  tree.  Stress 
upon  synecdochic  representation  is  thus  seen  to  be  a  neces- 
sary ingredient  of  a  truly  realistic  philosophy  (as  against  a 
naturalistic  one,  that  would  tend  to  consider  our  sensory 
representations  as  "illusory").  As  to  artistic  representation, 
the  term  needs  no  further  comment:  the  colors  and  forms 
in  the  painting  of  a  tree  represent  the  tree.  In  theories  of 
politics  prevailing  at  different  periods  in  history,  there  have 
been  quarrels  as  to  the  precise  vessel  of  authority  that  is  to 
be  considered  "representative"  of  the  society  as  a  whole 
(chief,  nobles,  monarch,  churchmen,  parliamentary  dele- 
gates, poet,  leader,  the  majority,  the  average,  the  propertied, 
or  the  propertyless,  etc.)  but  all  agree  in  assuming  that  there 
is  some  part  representative  of  the  whole,2  hence  fit  to  stand 
for  it. 

A  "fetish,"  usually  thought  of  as  belonging  in  a  totally 


2  Periods  of  social  crisis  occur  when  an  authoritative  class,  whose  purpose  and 
ideals  had  been  generally  considered  as  representative  of  the  total  society's  pur- 
poses and  ideals,  becomes  considered  as  antagonistic.  Their  class  character,  once 
felt  to  be  a  culminating  part  of  the  whole,  is  now  felt  to  be  a  divisive  part  of 
the  whole. 

26 


LITERARY    FORM 

different  category,  is  thus  seen  likewise  to  be  an  aspect  of 
the  synecdochic  function,  as  when  the  beloved's  shoe  is 
proxy  for  the  beloved.  The  "scapegoat"  becomes  another 
kind  of  "representative,"  in  serving  as  the  symbolic  vessel 
of  certain  burdens,  which  are  ritualistically  delegated 
to  it.  And  as  regards  our  speculations  upon  the  nature  of 
"clusters"  or  "equations,"  would  it  not  follow  that  if  there 
are,  let  us  say,  seven  ingredients  composing  a  cluster,  any 
one  of  them  could  be  treated  as  "representing"  the  rest? 
It  is  in  this  way  that  such  an  image  as  a  "house"  in  a  poem 
can  become  a  "house  plus,"  as  it  does  proxy  for  the  other 
ingredients  that  cluster  about  it  (e.  g.,  for  the  beloved  that 
lives  in  the  house,  and  is  thus  "identified"  with  it).  Usually, 
several  of  these  other  ingredients  will  appear  surrounding 
the  one  temporarily  featured. 

Our  introduction  of  the  word  "identified"  suggests  also 
the  importance  of  the  name  as  an  important  aspect  of  synec- 
doche (the  name  as  fetishistic  representative  of  the  named, 
as  a  very  revealing  part  of  the  same  cluster).  Thus,  such 
protagonists  as  "He,"  or  "Man,"  or  "The  Poet,"  or  Kafka's 

"K "   indicate  by  their  very  labeling  a  "problem  of 

identity."  And  you  will  often  find  a  change  of  identity,  sig- 
nalized by  a  change  of  name  (the  "Saul — Paul"  reversal, 
or  Coleridge's  shift  of  epithets  for  his  water  snakes;  Hitler 
speaks  of  his  early  period  as  a  time  when  he  and  his  group 
were  "nameless,"  and  he  proclaims  with  exulting  the  later 
period  when  they  "had  names").  Such  identification  by  name 
has  a  variant  in  change  of  clothes,  or  a  change  of  surround- 
ings in  general,  a  change  of  "environmental  clothes."  3  Such 

s  The  thought  suggests  a  possible  interpretation  of  nudism  as  a  symbolic  divest- 
ing (unclothing)  of  guilt,  a  symbolic  purification  arrived  at  thus:  (1)  There  has 
been  the  hiding  of  the  shameful,  hence  the  clothing  of  the  pudenda  as  the 
"essence"  of  guilt;  (2)  the  covering,  as  synecdochic  representative  of  the  covered, 

27 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

investing  by  environment  may  sometimes  enlist  the  very 
heavens,  as  with  the  change  of  identity  in  "The  Ancient 
Mariner"  as  we  move  from  suffering  under  the  aegis  of  the 
Sun  to  release  under  the  aegis  of  the  Moon.  In  Aeschylus 
we  have  an  equally  thorough  variant,  when  guilt  is  trans- 
formed into  charity  (i.  e.,  the  Erinyes  are  renamed  the 
Eumenides). 

The  synecdochic  function  may  also  be  revealed  in  the 
form  of  a  poem,  from  the  purely  technical  angle.  If  event  2, 
for  instance,  follows  from  event  1  and  leads  into  event  3, 
each  of  these  events  may  synecdochically  represent  the 
others  (the  interwovenness  often  being  revealed  objectively 
in  such  processes  as  "foreshadowing").  If  the  Albatross  is 
put  there  to  be  killed,  it  could  be  said  to  "participate  in  the 
crime"  in  the  sense  that  the  savage,  after  a  successful  hunt, 
thanks  the  quarry  for  its  cooperation  in  the  enterprise.  In 
being  placed  there  as  a  "motivation"  of  the  Mariner's  guilt, 
its  function  as  something-to-be-murdered  is  synonymous 
with  its  function  as  incitement-to-murder  (recall  that  among 
the  functions  of  synecdoche  is  the  substitution  of  cause  for 
effect  and  effect  for  cause).  And  since  "the  very  deep  did 
rot"  as  a  result  of  this  murder,  the  Albatross  should  be  ex- 
pected also  to  contain,  implicitly,  by  foreshadowing,  the 
substance  of  the  water  snakes  that  grew  in  this  rot.  This 
may  explain  why  the  Mariner,  who  was  to  kill  the  Albatross, 
fed  it  "biscuit  worms"  (in  a  later  version  this  fatal  incipi- 
ence was  obscured:  "It  ate  the  things  it  ne'er  had  eat").  In 
totemic  thought,  as  in  the  communion  service,  consubstanti- 


has  come  to  participate  in  the  same  set  of  equations,  taking  on  the  same  quality 
or  essence,  literally  "by  contagion";  (3)  hence,  by  removing  the  clothes,  one  may 
at  the  same  time  ritualistically  remove  the  shame  of  which  the  clothes  are  "repre- 
sentative." The  resultant  identity  is  a  social  one,  in  that  the  nudists  form  a  colony, 
but  of  strongly  naturalistic  cast. 

28 


LITERARY    FORM 

ality  is  got  by  the  eating  of  food  in  common.  "Tell  me  what 
you  eat,  and  I'll  tell  you  what  you  are."  And  in  the  "what 
you  are"  there  is  implicit  the  "what  you  will  be."  Thus,  the 
Albatross  names  simultaneously  its  identity,  its  fate,  and 
the  outcome  of  that  fate,  in  eating  a  food  that  is  of  the  same 
substance  as  that  fate  and  its  outcome.  The  relation  between 
the  slain  Albatross  and  the  "thousand  thousand  slimy 
things"  that  grew  out  of  its  destruction  may  be  disclosed  by 
some  lines  from  Remorse,  where  another  variant  of  the 
metaphysical  battle  between  good  and  evil  (and  behind  it, 
the  battle  between  the  benign  and  malign  effects  of  opium) 
is  being  fought.  Ordonio,  the  villain,  speaks: 

Say,  I  had  laid  a  body  in  the  sun! 
Well!  in  a  month  there  swarms  forth  from  the  corse 
A  thousand,  nay,  ten  thousand  sentient  beings 
In  place  of  that  one  man. — Say,  I  had  killed  him! 
Yet  who  shall  tell  me,  that  each  one  and  all 
Of  these  ten  thousand  lives  is  not  as  happy, 
As  that  one  life,  which  being  push'd  aside, 
Made  room  for  these  unnumbered — 

Valdez  interrupts:  "O  mere  madness!"  (we  should  also 
note  that  the  epithet  "happy"  is  also  applied  by  the  Mariner 
to  the  water  snakes,  as  he  impulsively  sees  them  in  their 
transubstantiated  identity,  their  evil  origin  transcended  into 
goodness). 

To  sum  up,  as  illustration  of  the  way  in  which  these 
various  terms  could,  for  our  purposes,  all  be  brought  to- 
gether as  aspects  of  synecdoche:  A  house  lived  in  by  a 
woman  loved,  would  be  "representative"  of  the  woman  who 
was  "identified"  with  it  (i.  e.,  it  would  be  in  the  same  "as- 

29 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

sociational  cluster"  or  "set  of  equations").  As  such,  it  could 
be  a  "fetishistic  surrogate"  for  the  woman.  It  could  serve  as 
"scapegoat"  in  that  some  forbidden  impulse  of  the  lover 
could  be  enacted  vicariously  in  a  "symbolic  act"  towards 
the  house  (as  were  she  virginal,  and  were  he  impulsively  to 
break  the  window  in  its  door).  The  equations  could  be  dis- 
closed by  a  "statistical"  analysis  of  the  correlations  within 
the  imagery,  establishing  by  objective  citation  "what  goes 
with  what."  And  formally,  as  foreshadowing  in  a  poem,  the 
breaking  of  a  window  at  the  opening  of  the  poem  might 
implicitly  contain  a  scene  of  rape  to  be  enacted  later  in  the 
poem. 

This  last  point  might  go  far  to  explain  the  increasing  pro- 
portion of  fragmentary  poems  to  be  noted  since  the  begin- 
ning of  the  nineteenth  century.  This  we  should  attribute  to 
an  increased  emphasis  upon  lyrical  associationism,  and  a 
decreased  emphasis  upon  rationally  extricated  dramatic  plot 
(as  most  clearly  revealed  in  the  elaborate  intrigues  that  are 
usually  the  basis  of  plot  structure  in  the  plays  of  Shake- 
speare). We  could  make  the  distinction  clear  in  this  way: 
Imagine  an  author  who  had  laid  out  a  five-act  drama  of 
the  rational,  intricate,  intrigue  sort — a  situation  that  was 
wound  up  at  the  start,  and  was  to  be  unwound,  step  by  step, 
through  the  five  successive  acts.  Imagine  that  this  plot  was 
scheduled,  in  Act  V,  to  culminate  in  a  scene  of  battle. 
Dramatic  consistency  would  require  the  playwright  to  "fore- 
shadow" this  battle.  Hence,  in  Act  III,  he  might  give  us  this 
battle  incipiently,  or  implicitly,  in  a  vigorous  battle  of 
words  between  the  antagonists.  But  since  there  was  much 
business  still  to  be  transacted,  in  unwinding  the  plot  to  its 
conclusion,  he  would  treat  Act  III  as  a  mere  foreshadowing 
of  Act  V,  and  would  proceed  with  his  composition  until  the 
3° 


LITERARY    FORM 

promises  emergent  in  Act  III  had  been  fulfilled  in  Act  V. 

On  the  other  hand,  imagine  a  "lyric"  plot  that  had  re- 
duced the  intrigue  business  to  a  minimum.  When  the  poet 
had  completed  Act  III,  his  job  would  be  ended,  and  despite 
his  intention  to  write  a  work  in  five  acts,  he  might  very 
well  feel  a  loss  of  inclination  to  continue  into  Acts  IV  and 
V.  For  the  act  of  foreshadowing,  in  Act  III,  would  already 
implicitly  contain  the  culmination  of  the  promises.  The 
battle  of  words  would  itself  be  the  symbolic  equivalent  of 
the  mortal  combat  scheduled  for  Act  V.  Hence,  it  would 
serve  as  surrogate  for  the  quality  with  which  he  had  in- 
tended to  end  Act  V,  whereat  the  poet  would  have  no  good 
reason  to  continue  further.  He  would  "lose  interest" — and 
precisely  because  the  quality  of  Act  V  had  been  "tele- 
scoped" into  the  quality  of  Act  III  that  foreshadowed  it 
(and  in  foreshadowing  it,  was  of  the  same  substance  or  es- 
sence). Act  III  would  be  a  kind  of  ejaculation  too  soon,  with 
the  purpose  of  the  composition  forthwith  dwindling. 

In  The  World's  Body,  John  Crowe  Ransom  treats  as- 
sociationism  as  dramatic,  citing  Shakespeare  as  an  example, 
in  contrast  with  Donne.  That  is:  Donne  continues  one 
conceit  throughout  a  poem,  whereas  Shakespeare  leaps 
about  from  one  image  to  another,  using  each  to  deliver  a 
quick  blow  and  then  shifting  to  fresh  images,  with  none 
maintained  over  a  long  duration,  or  rationally  exploited.  It 
is  a  very  acute  and  suggestive  distinction — though  I  should 
want  to  interpret  it  differently.  Shakespeare,  I  should  say, 
had  the  rational  intrigue,  or  business  of  his  plot,  as  the 
basis  of  his  consistency.  This  permitted  him  great  shifti- 
ness of  imagery,  as  he  tried  to  convey  the  quality  of  the 
action  by  views  from  various  angles.  Also,  I  will  agree  that, 
in  a  plot  of  this  sort,  the  attempt  to  carry  one  conceit 
31 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

throughout  would  be  more  of  an  encumbrance  than  a  help. 
Since  the  plot  itself  provided  the  groundwork  of  consist- 
ency, the  explicit  riding  of  one  image  would  attain  the 
effect  by  excess,  which  would  be  tiresome. 

Later  lyricists  (of  the  non-Donne  sort)  adopted  the 
Shakespearean  associationism  while  dropping  its  proper 
corrective:  a  plot  of  pronounced  intrigue,  or  business.  But 
I  should  want  to  place  Donne  in  this  pattern  as  follows: 
His  exploitation  of  one  metaphor  throughout  an  entire 
poetic  unit  was  the  equivalent,  in  the  lyric,  for  the  plottiness 
of  drama.  It  pledged  the  poet  to  much  rational  business  in 
the  unwinding  of  the  poem's  situation. 

Thus,  I  should  want  to  place  Shakespeare,  Donne,  and 
the  romantic  lyric  with  relation  to  one  another  as  follows: 
Shakespeare  uses  rational  intrigue  with  associationism; 
Donne's  lyric  compensates  for  the  loss  of  rational  intrigue 
by  using  an  equivalent,  the  business  of  exploiting  one  meta- 
phor; the  romantic  lyric  uses  Shakespeare's  associationism 
without  either  Shakespeare's  or  Donne's  tactics  of  rational 
counterweighting.  It  is  "free."  However,  we  should  also  note 
that  there  usually  is,  even  in  the  free  associational  procedure, 
some  underlying  "key"  image  that  recurs  in  varying  ex- 
ploitations. Caroline  Spurgeon's  Shakespeare's  Imagery  has 
disclosed  this  practice  as  an  important  factor  making  for 
consistency  of  effect  in  the  plays  of  Shakespeare.  And  Lane 
Cooper  has  done  similar  work  on  "The  Ancient  Mariner," 
showing  the  many  overt  and  covert  variants  of  the  fixing, 
magnetic  eye  that  prevail  throughout  the  poem.  The  sur- 
prising thing  about  Lane  Cooper's  study,  however,  is  that 
the  critic  seems  to  have  been  "disillusioned"  by  his  own 
discovery.  He  tells  of  it  in  the  accents  of  "indictment," 
32 


LITERARY    FORM 

where  he  could  with  more  justice  have  employed  the  accents 

of  admiration. 

EQUATIONS     ILLUSTRATED     IN      GOLDEN    BOY 

An  especially  convenient  work  to  use  as  illustration  of 
"cluster"  or  "equations"  is  Clifford  Odets'  Golden  Boy, 
since  it  is  formed  about  two  opposed  principles  symbolized 
as  an  opposition  between  "violin"  and  "prizefight."  The 
total  dramatic  agon  is  broken  down,  by  analytic  dissociation, 
into  "violin"  as  the  symbol  of  the  protagonist  and  "prize- 
fight" as  the  symbol  of  the  antagonist,  with  the  two  symbols 
competing  in  an  over-all  cooperative  act,  as  teams  com- 
petitively work  together  to  make  a  game.  Here  the  equations 
are  especially  easy  to  observe,  as  you  find,  by  statistically 
charting  the  course  of  the  plot,  that  prizefight  equals  com- 
petition, cult  of  money,  leaving  home,  getting  the  girl,  while 
violin  equals  cooperative  social  unity,  disdain  of  money, 
staying  home,  not  needing  the  girl.  Obviously,  "prizefight" 
and  "violin"  don't  mean  that  for  all  of  us.  But  that  is  the 
way  the  clusters  line  up,  within  the  conditions  of  the  drama. 

I  do  not  wish,  at  this  time,  to  attempt  an  exhaustive  analy- 
sis of  the  interrelationships  peculiar  to  Odets.  I  shall  simply 
indicate  the  kind  of  "leads"  I  think  one  should  follow,  if 
he  wanted  to  complete  such  a  chart  by  "statistical"  or  "sym- 
bolic" analysis.  At  one  point,  Moody  says:  "Monica,  if  I  had 
fifty  bucks  I'd  buy  myself  a  big  juicy  coffin — what? — so 
throw  me  in  jail."  Surely,  such  an  unusual  adjective  for 
"coffin"  would  justify  watching.  Nothing  may  come  of  it; 
but  it  is  worth  noting  as  a  "cue,"  a  hunch  that  puts  us 
vaguely  on  the  track  of  something,  and  that  may  or  may 
not  materialize.  Particularly  in  view  of  the  fact  that  pre- 
33 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
viously,  when  the  boy's  father  had  presented  him  with  the 
violin,  another  character  present  had  remarked:  "It  looks 
like  a  coffin  for  a  baby."  4  Another  character  makes  a  speech 
that  proceeds  from  talk  of  bad  world  conditions,  to  talk 
of  spring,  to  talk  of  war,  to:  "Where's  Joe?  Did  you  give 
him  the  fiddle  yet?"  As  a  "first  approximation,"  this  se- 
quence might  indicate  either  that  these  various  subjects 
"equal"  one  another,  all  being  consistently  part  of  the  same 
cluster,  or  that  some  are  compensatory  to  the  others. 

When  we  recall  the  prizefight-violin  opposition,  however, 
we  get  indications  for  a  "closer  approximation"  here,  as 
prizefight  is  in  the  war  cluster  by  consistency,  whereas  violin 
is  in  the  opposing  cluster.  So,  at  this  point,  the  hunches 
begin  to  take  form  as  follows:  That  the  violin,  in  its  re- 
lations to  home  (it  was  presented  to  the  boy  by  his  father, 
against  whom  his  plans  to  be  a  fighter  are  a  treachery,  and 
Joe  says:  "You  don't  know  what  it  means  to  sit  around  here 
and  watch  the  months  go  ticking  by!  Do  you  think  that's 
a  life  for  a  boy  of  my  age?  Tomorrow's  my  birthday!  I 
change  my  life!" — a  vita  nuova  in  opposition  to  the  father's 
ideals) — this  violin  is  "tied  up  with"  death  to  babies,  quite 
as  it  is  tied  up  with  the  continuity  of  life  from  pre- 
adolescence,  a  period  of  unity  with  sexual  partner  omitted. 

Were  we  to  trail  down  these  interrelationships  of  the 
playwright's  "psychic  economy"  further,  we  might,  for 
statistical  assistance,  borrow  help  from  his  other  plays.  The 
antagonism  between  violin  and  prizefight,  for  instance,  has 
a  common  agonistic  ground  in  the  fate  of  the  boy's  hand, 
which  is  broken  in  the  prizefight,  thus  also  ruining  him  as 

4  When  someone  gives  a  gift,  one  may  well  ask  himself  what  the  gift  "represents." 
What  is  going  from  the  giver  to  the  receiver?  What  relationship  between  them  is 
being  identified?  Or  we  might  put  it  this  way:  If  the  gift  were  to  be  accompanied 
by  a  verbal  compliment,  what  compliment  would  be  most  appropriate? 

34 


LITERARY    FORM 

a  violinist.  We  might  then  examine  Odets'  Nazi  play  for 

cues,   since   the   theme   of  the   crushed  hand  also   figures 

there. 

As  for  violin,  much  of  the  action  in  Paradise  Lost  takes 
place  to  the  playing  of  music  off  stage.  The  correspondence 
between  this  music  and  other  contents  might  be  got  by 
looking  for  some  common  quality  of  action  or  speech  that 
runs  through  all  the  events  on  the  stage  concurrent  with 
the  playing  off  stage  (including  entrances  or  exits  of  char- 
acters, a  kind  of  break  that  often  supplies  significant  cues). 
Ideally,  however,  this  relation  would  require  us  to  dig  out 
an  explicit  "pontification"  in  Odets  that  justified  us,  by 
objective  "scissor- work,"  as  against  subjective  interpreta- 
tion, in  treating  the  piano  music  of  Paradise  Lost  as  the 
equivalent  of  the  violin  in  Golden  Boy.  (As,  for  instance, 
were  a  character  to  refer  to  a  piano  as  a  "key-fiddle"  or  to 
a  violin  as  a  "portable  piano,"  or  to  speak  of  "fiddling 
around  with  the  piano.")  I  leave  this  analysis  unfinished, 
since  I  am  not  now  attempting  to  make  an  exhaustive  analy- 
sis of  Odets,  but  simply  to  illustrate  the  rules  of  thumb  by 
which  it  might  proceed. 

The  "symbolism"  of  a  word  consists  in  the  fact  that  no 
one  quite  uses  the  word  in  its  mere  dictionary  sense.  And 
the  overtones  of  a  usage  are  revealed  "by  the  company  it 
keeps"  in  the  utterances  of  a  given  speaker  or  writer.  Odets' 
"prizefight"  is  not  Joe  Louis's.  If  you  tracked  down  all  inter- 
relations as  revealed  by  the  cluster  in  which  a  word  has  active 
membership,  you  would  dissolve  symbolism  into  an  infinity 
of  particulars.  The  "symbolic"  attribute  is  like  the  title  of  a 
chapter;  the  particulars  are  like  the  details  that  fill  out  a 
chapter.  The  title  is  a  kind  of  "first  approximation";  the 
detailed  filling-out  a  kind  of  "closer  approximation." 

35 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
LEVELS    OF    SYMBOLIC    ACTION 

The  various  levels  of  symbolic  action  that  we  might  look 
for,  in  the  analysis  of  poem  as  enactment,  might  be  cate- 
gorized as  follows: 

(i)  The  bodily  or  biological  level.  Kinaesthetic  imagery. 
Symbolic  acts  of  gripping,  repelling,  eating,  excreting,  sleep- 
ing, waking  (insomnia),  even  and  uneven  rhythms  (pace 
and  puzzle,  as  tentative  thought  corresponds  somewhat  to 
the  arhythmic  movements  of  an  experimenter's  animal  in 
an  unfamiliar  maze,  while  assertive  thought  corresponds  to 
the  thoroughly  coordinated  movements  of  an  animal  that 
has  learned  the  workings  of  the  maze,  and  proceeds  to  free- 
dom without  hesitancy). 

We  may  also  include  sensory  imagery  here,  with  natural 
objects  or  events  treated  as  replicas  of  corresponding  mental 
states.  Thus,  no  matter  how  concrete  and  realistic  the  de- 
tails of  a  book,  they  may  be  found,  when  taken  in  the  lump, 
to  "symbolize"  some  over-all  quality  of  experience,  as 
growth,  decay,  drought,  fixity,  ice,  desiccation,  stability,  etc. 
(Contrast  the  medieval  liking  for  the  architectural  meta- 
phor, or  for  the  stable  tree  in  familistic  descent,  with  the 
"America  on  wheels"  emphasis  in  The  Grapes  of  Wrath.) 

Note  that,  by  employing  such  a  "level  of  abstraction," 
we  might  properly  group  works  as  different  in  their  concrete 
details  as  "The  Ancient  Mariner,"  The  Waste  Land,  the 
Dos  Passos  trilogy,  and  The  Grapes  of  Wrath.  It  should  be 
noted,  however,  that  such  a  procedure  is  critically  truncated 
if  it  stops  at  the  inclusion  of  various  works  in  a  common 
germs.  It  must  proceed  to  the  discussion  of  the  differentiae. 
For  it  would  be  absurd,  on  noting  the  imagery  of  drought 
common  to  Eliot's  poem  and  Steinbeck's  novel,  to  conclude: 

36 


LITERARY    FORM 

"The   Grapes   of   Wrath    is   just    The    Waste  Land   over 
again."  5 

(2)  The  personal,  intimate,  familiar,  familistic  level.  Re- 
lationships to  father,  mother,  doctor,  nurse,  friends,  etc.  In 
the  mention  of  the  "family  tree"  above,  we  see  how  the  sen- 
sory imagery  may  overlap  upon  this  level.  The  levels  are,  in 
fact,  but  conveniences  of  discourse,  for  analytic  purposes, 
and  the  actual  event  in  a  work  of  art  usually  contains  an 
intermingling  of  them  all.  And  since  both  a  father  and  a 
state  may  be  "authorities,"  we  see  how  readily  this  personal 
level  merges  into  a  third, 

(3)  The  abstract  level.  Here  we  move  into  the  concern 
with  the  part  played  by  insignia  in  poetic  action,  their  use 
by  the  poet  as  ways  of  enrolling  himself  in  a  band.  Some- 
times this  kind  of  symbolic  act  is  explicit,  as  with  "pro- 
letarian" school  today,  where  the  choice  of  a  certain  kind  of 
hero  is  in  itself  a  kind  of  "literary  vote,"  a  statement  of 
one's  "stand." 

Sometimes  this  "Bundschnh"  ingredient  in  art  is  but 
implicit,  as  with  Pope's  stylistic  ways  of  enrolling  himself 
with  a  new  propertied  class  eager  for  "correctness."  His 
neat  couplet  served  stylistically  to  get  everything  "placed" 
for  them;  his  poetry  was  perhaps  the  most  sensitive  "Book 
of  Etiquette"  ever  written.  It  was  a  kind  of  "landscape 
gardening  of  the  mind" — and  in  Edgar  Johnson's  One 
Mighty  Torrent  we  get  an  almost  startling  picture  of  the 
change  in  symbolic  enrollment  that  took  place  as  we  turned 
from  this  deft  way  of  sitting  on  the  lid  to  the  romantic's 
blowing  off  the  lid — as  we  turn  from  landscape  gardening 

s  Kinaesthetic  imagery  is  probably  more  active,  sensory  imagery  ("impressions") 
more  passive.  At  least,  the  latter  has  gained  stress  under  modern  sedentary  con- 
ditions, and  its  percentage  is  greatly  decreased  in  work  songs  and  songs  for  people 
on  the  march. 

37 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
of  the  mind,   to  an  imagery  of  crags,  chasms,  volcanoes, 
earthquakes,  cataracts,  dizzying  vistas,  upheavals,  and  cata- 
clysms.6 

Here  we  get  a  symbolic  proclaiming  and  formation  of 
identity — while  again,  it  is  worthy  of  note,  that  the  roman- 
tic movement  tended  greatly  to  conceive  of  man's  identity 
in  nonsocial,  purely  naturalistic  terms,  specializing  in  such 
objective  imagery  as  would  most  directly  correspond  in 
quality  with  subjective  states.  It  was  "neoprimitive"  in  its 
notions  of  role,  or  identity,  as  against  the  strong  emphasis 
upon  the  labels  of  social  status  in  Pope. 

The  formation  of  role,  however,  involves,  in  its  working 
out,  a  transformation  of  role.  Even  if  one  would  symboli- 
cally form  a  role  by  becoming  "most  thoroughly  and  ef- 
ficiently himself,"  he  must  slough  off  ingredients  that  are 
irrelevant  to  this  purpose  (ingredients  that  are  "impure," 
if  only  in  the  chemical  sense).  So  we  watch,  in  the  structural 
analysis  of  the  symbolic  act,  not  only  the  matter  of  "what 
equals  what,"  but  also  the  matter  of  "from  what  to  what." 
And  we  detect,  under  various  guises,  the  abandonment  of 
an  old  self,  in  symbolic  suicide,  parricide,  or  prolicide. 

Psychologists,  particularly  Otto  Rank,  have  characterized 
this  manifestation  of  art  as  the  result  of  a  "death  wish."  But 
I  should  contend  that  this  interpretation  is  not  "dialectical" 

e  Think  of  Joseph  and  Josephine,  a  married  couple,  engaged  in  a  caricatured 
quarrel.  Josephine,  in  anger,  seizes  a  plate  and  sends  it  smashing  to  the  floor.  This 
may  sober  Joseph.  He  may  say,  "Come  now.  This  is  going  too  far.  Let's  try  to 
contain  ourselves  and  talk  the  matter  over."  In  this  he  would  speak  with  the  voice 
of  Pope  and  Pope's  etiquette.  Or  Joseph  might  respond  quite  differently,  by 
"transcending"  the  old  rules,  as  he  seized  a  dozen  plates,  muttering,  "So  that's 
what  we're  in  for!  Plate  smashing!  Very  well — here's  going  you  a  lot  better!" 
whereat  he  splintered  the  whole  dozen,  and  did  a  very  thorough  job  of  it.  Joseph 
here  would  speak  with  the  voice  of  romanticism.  He  would  change  the  rules,  and 
burn  out  temptation  by  efficient  excess  of  it.  He  would  start  himself  and  Josephine 
on  an  uncompromising  journey  "to  the  end  of  the  line,"  as  Josephine's  rejoinder 
was  to  smash  more  efficiently  still,  and  he  in  his  repartee  again  outbid  her,  and 
so  on,  progressively. 

38 


LITERARY    FORM 

enough.  Look  closer  at  poetic  examples  of  the  "death  wish," 
and  you  will  see  that  the  symbolic  slaying  of  an  old  self  is 
complemented  by  the  emergence  of  a  new  self.  In  fact, 
even  though  every  action  and  person  in  the  plot  led  down- 
wards, we  should  find  an  assertion  of  identity  in  the  con- 
structive act  of  the  poem  itself.  I  should  want  to  treat  even 
suicide  in  real  life  as  but  the  act  of  rebirth  reduced  to  its 
simplest  and  most  restricted  form  (its  least  complex  idiom 
of  expression). 

But  however  one  may  feel  about  that  point,  the  act  of  will 
in  poetic  organization  justifies  our  claim  that  a  symbolic 
suicide  (on  the  page)  is  an  assertion,  the  buildi?ig  of  a  role 
and  not  merely  the  abandonment  of  oneself  to  the  disinte- 
gration of  all  roles.  True,  the  role  that  is  so  built  may,  by 
social  tests,  not  be  a  very  wholesome  one — and  in  much 
contemporary  art,  introducing  into  the  act  of  poetic  con- 
struction itself  an  aesthetic  of  disintegration  unmatched  by 
an  aesthetic  of  reintegration,  we  come  close,  even  in  the 
poem,  to  a  "pure"  suicide.  Rather,  we  come  closer  than  in 
most  art  of  the  past;  but  there  is  still  an  appreciable  margin 
of  difference,  inherent  in  the  act  of  composition  itself.  Im- 
plicit in  poetic  organization  per  se  there  is  the  assertion  of 
an  identity. 

ASPECTS     OF     THE     SCAPEGOAT     IN 
REIDENTIFICATION 

Since  the  symbolic  transformation  involves  a  sloughing 
off,  you  may  expect  to  find  some  variant  of  killing  in  the 
work.  (I  treat  indictment,  vituperation,  vindictiveness 
against  a  "villain,"  etc.,  as  attenuated  aspects  of  this  same 
function.)  So  we  get  to  the  "scapegoat,"  the  "representative" 
or  "vessel"  of  certain  unwanted  evils,  the  sacrificial  animal 

39 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
upon  whose  back  the  burden  of  these  evils  is  ritualistically 
loaded.  He  becomes  "charismatic"  (if  we  may  incongruously 
extend  this  word  beyond  the  purely  "benign"  category  into 
the  "malign"  category).  We  are  now  brought  into  the  area 
of  tragedy,  the  "goat-song" — and  may  profitably  recall  that, 
whereas  in  primitive  societies,  the  purifying  function  could 
be  ritualistically  delegated  to  an  animal,  as  societies  grew 
in  social  complexity  and  sophistication,  the  tendency  was 
to  endow  the  sacrificial  animal  with  social  coordinates,  so 
that  the  goat  became  replaced  by  the  "sacrificial  King." 

This  vessel,  delegated  to  the  role  of  sacrifice,  must  ob- 
viously be  "worthy"  of  sacrifice.  A  few  basic  strategies  for 
making  him  so  may  be  listed: 

(1)  He  may  be  made  worthy  legalistically  (i.  e.,  by  making 
him  an  offender  against  legal  or  moral  justice,  so  that  he 
"deserves"  what  he  gets). 

(2)  We  may  make  him  worthy  by  leading  towards  sacri- 
fice fatalistically  (as  when  we  so  point  the  arrows  of  the  plot 
that  the  audience  comes  to  think  of  him  as  a  marked  man, 
and  so  prepares  itself  to  relinquish  him).  Portents,  auguries, 
meteorological  omens,  and  prophecies  have  regularly  been 
thus  used  for  functional  purposes — while  the  transition  into 
the  sacrifice  may  often  employ  an  intermingling  of  this 
second  kind  of  worthiness  with  the  first,  as  when  the  Greek 
dramatists  reinforced  the  fatalistic  operations  with  a  per- 
sonal flaw,  hubris,  punishable  pride,  the  pride  that  goes 
before  a  fall. 

(3)  We  may  make  him  worthy  by  a  subtle  kind  of  poetic 
justice,  in  making  the  sacrificial  vessel  "too  good  for  this 
world,"  hence  of  the  highest  value,  hence  the  most  perfect 
sacrifice  (as  with  the  Christ  theme,  and  its  secular  variants, 
such  as  little  Hanno  Buddenbrooks,  whose  exceptional  sen- 
40 


LITERARY    FORM 

sitivity  to  music  made  him  worthy  to  be  sacrificed  to  music). 

Incidentally,  when  thinking  of  the  sacrificial  vessel  from 
this  point  of  view,  we  get  a  much  more  charitable  explana- 
tion of  the  Oedipus  complex  than  is  usually  given  in  psy- 
choanalytic doctrine.  That  is,  we  should  not  have  to  con- 
sider the  child's  dream  of  a  parent's  death  as  symbolizing 
simply  the  child's  desire  for  the  parent's  removal,  as  a  rival 
for  affection.  In  many  cases,  at  least,  such  a  dream  might 
well  symbolize  some  fear  of  personal  disaster  on  the  child's 
part,  while  the  child  in  its  dream  places  the  burden  of  this 
fear  upon  the  protective  parent,  whose  shoulders  are  more 
able  to  bear  it  (the  parent  having  already  become  identified 
with  such  a  protective  role).  Rivalries  might  also  enter,  to 
reinforce  such  a  solution  with  "legalistic"  or  "rationalized" 
ingredients,  without  thereby  being  the  sole  ingredient  in 
the  recipe  of  motivation. 

We  should  also  note  that  a  change  of  identity,  to  be  com- 
plete from  the  familistic  point  of  view,  would  require 
nothing  less  drastic  than  the  obliteration  of  one's  whole 
past  lineage.  A  total  rebirth  would  require  a  change  of  sub- 
stance; and  in  the  overlapping  realm  of  familistic  and  causal 
ancestry  ("like  father  like  son"  and  the  "genetic  fallacy" 
of  evaluating  a  thing  in  terms  of  its  causal  descent)  a 
thorough  job  of  symbolic  rebirth  would  require  the  revision 
of  one's  ancestral  past  itself — quite  as  mystics  hold  that  in 
becoming  wholly  transformed  one  not  only  can  alter  the 
course  of  the  future  but  can  even  remake  the  past  (the 
crudest  act  of  this  sort  being  such  revision  of  the  past  as 
we  get  in  official  Nazi  historiography).  Hence,  from  this 
point  of  view,  we  might  interpret  symbolic  parricide  as 
simply  an  extension  of  symbolic  suicide,  a  more  thorough- 
going way  of  obliterating  the  substance  of  one's  old  identity 
4i 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

— while,  as  we  have  said  before,  this  symbolic  suicide  itself 
would  be  but  one  step  in  a  process  which  was  not  completed 
until  the  substance  of  the  abandoned  identity  had  been  re- 
placed by  the  new  substance  of  a  new  identity.  Hitler's 
voting  himself  a  "blood  stream"  distinct  from  that  of  the 
Hebrew  patriarchs  is  a  symbolic  transubstantiation  of  this 
sort — while  an  attentuated  social  variant  of  reidentification 
is  to  be  seen  in  the  legal  adoption  of  a  new  family  name,  or 
in  pseudonyms,  noms  de  plume,  secret  lodge  names,  etc. 

Applying  such  a  calculus  to  the  interpretation  of  sym- 
bolic incest  in  much  modern  literature,  we  should  have 
cause  to  admonish  against  a  view  of  it  as  simply  the  sym- 
bolization  of  incestuous  desire.  Sometimes  it  may  well  be 
just  that.  But  until  such  an  interpretation  is  forced  upon  us 
by  many  other  aspects  of  the  plot's  imagery,  we  might  do 
well  to  watch  for  a  totally  different  possibility:  that  sym- 
bolic incest  is  often  but  a  roundabout  mode  of  self- 
engrossment,  a  narcissistic  independence,  quite  likely  at 
the  decadent  end  of  individualism,  where  the  poet  is  but  ex- 
pressing in  sexual  imagery  a  pattern  of  thought  that  we 
might  call  simply  "communion  with  the  self,"  and  is  giving 
this  state  of  mind  concrete  material  body  in  the  imagery 
of  sexual  cohabitation  with  someone  "of  the  same  sub- 
stance" as  the  self. 

Such  an  explanation  seems  particularly  applicable  to  the 
plays  of  O'Neill  prior  to  his  return  to  the  collective  frame 
of  the  Catholic  Church.  In  the  earlier  plays,  as  a  renegade 
Catholic,  he  symbolized  tangential  states  of  mind,  homeless 
individualists  who  had  broken  "free,"  and  in  the  immaturity 
of  their  freedom  were  usually  infused  with  satanism  (the 
character  that  prays  to  the  Dynamo  in  Dynamo,  for  instance, 
is  but  making  obeisance  to  the  Catholic  Devil,  thus  materi- 
42 


LITERARY    FORM 

alistically  refurbished).  In  Marco  Millions  there  is  a  home- 
coming, but  it  is  cynical  and  brutal;  no  adequate  home.  In 
Mourning  Becomes  Electra  we  see  most  clearly  the  ways  in 
which  symbolic  incest  merges  into  self-engrossment,  with 
Lavinia  at  the  end  throwing  out  the  flowers  and  closing  the 
shutters,  the  thorough  dramatization  of  a  turning  inwards. 
In  The  Hairy  Ape  we  see  this  narcissistic  quality,  without 
the  roundabout  complications  of  symbolic  incest,  as  the 
lonely,  quarrelsome  individual,  Yank,  on  confronting  the 
Hairy  Ape  (his  alter  ego  who  is  but  a  drastically  efficient 
reflection  of  himself),  proclaims  their  identity  of  substance 
("Ain't  we  both  members  of  de  same  club — de  Hairy 
Apes?"),  gives  the  Ape  the  "secret  grip"  ("Come  on, 
Brother.  .  .  .  Shake — de  secret  grip  of  our  order") — 
whereupon  the  Ape  embraces  him  ("Hey,  I  didn't  say  kiss 
me") — and  in  this  embrace  Yank  dies.  (We  might  here 
introduce,  as  relevant  gloss  on  this  death,  a  sentence  from 
"Three  Revolutions  in  Poetry,"  by  Cleanth  Brooks,  Jr., 
The  Southern  Review,  Autumn,  1935:  "He  [F.  C.  Prescott] 
shows  that  the  verb  'to  die'  was  used  in  the  seventeenth 
century  with  the  meaning  'to  experience  the  consummation 
of  the  sexual  act.'  "  The  structure  of  the  plot  in  The  Hairy 
Ape  gives  cause  to  believe  that  O'Neill  is  drawing  upon  a 
similar  ambiguity,  though  doubtless  without  any  intention 
of  borrowing  from  a  seventeenth-century  usage,  or  prob- 
ably without  even  knowledge  of  it,  but  arriving  at  it  by  the 
same  associated  processes,  linking  bodily  and  mental  events, 
through  which  the  pun  originally  arose.) 

The  incest  motif  also  appears  in  Joyce's  recent  work, 
Finnegans  Wake.  And  here  also  I  should  want  to  interpret 
it  not  on  its  face  value  but  as  a  narcissistic  pattern  drama- 
tized in  the  idiom  of  sexual  imagery.  And  I  should  be  led 
43 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

here  to  place  this  interpretation  upon  the  imagery  because 
of  its  bearing  upon  the  whole  nature  of  Joyce's  aesthetic. 
Language,  of  all  things,  is  most  public,  most  collective,  in 
its  substance.  Yet  Joyce  has  methodically  set  about  to  pro- 
duce a  private  language,  a  language  that  is,  as  far  as  possible, 
the  sheer  replica  of  inturning  engrossments.  His  medium  is 
of  the  identical  substance  with  himself — and  with  this 
medium  he  communes,  devoting  his  life  to  the  study  of  its 
internalities.  Hence,  the  whole  quality  of  his  efforts  would 
admonish  us  to  look  for  such  union  of  same  substance  with 
same  substance  as  would  be  perfectly  conveyed  in  the  im- 
agery of  incest.  Joyce  seems  to  have  taken  the  last  step  into 
chemical  perfection,  by  symbolizing  a  homosexual  incest, 
the  identity  of  substance  thus  gaining  its  ultimate  sym- 
metry.7 

Applying  in  another  way  this  same  general  strategy  of 
motivation  (i.  e.,  interpreting  the  malign  as  an  inferior 
idiom  of  the  benign,  rather  than  interpreting  the  benign  as 
the  malign  deceptively  refurbished):  we  might  note  that 
the  elements  which  the  scapegoat  process  draws  upon  seem 
to  be  variants  of  a  response  essentially  charitable.  I  have  in 

7  This  theory  might  throw  some  light  upon  exogamy  among  primitive  tribes,  a 
practice  accompanied  by  concepts  of  incest  that  seem  to  our  culture  arbitrary. 
The  savage  considers  incestuous  any  cohabitation  with  anyone  who  shares  his 
totem,  though  there  is  no  blood  relationship  involved.  It  is  almost  as  though  we 
were  to  call  it  incest  if  a  man  and  woman  of  the  same  church,  lodge,  or  political 
party  cohabited.  Now,  in  primitive  tribes  the  individual  very  closely  identifies 
himself  with  all  members  of  the  clan  having  the  same  totem.  The  whole  clan  is 
"consubstantial."  Hence,  he  could  "avoid  himself"  only  by  copulation  with  the 
partaker  of  a  different  totemic  substance.  Sexual  union  with  a  member  of  his 
own  totem  would  be  a  "cohabitation  or  communion  with  the  self."  However,  this 
theory  is  not  offered  as  an  alternative  to  economic  explanations  of  exogamy,  but 
as  a  theory  of  the  psychological  processes  that  go  with  the  economic  ones.  So  also 
with  the  period  of  servitude  that  accompanied  marriage  into  another  clan.  Such 
marriage  would  require  a  change  of  identity,  hence  the  elements  of  regression  and 
guilt  that  go  with  symbolic  rebirth.  And  the  period  of  servitude,  explainable 
economically  as  a  form  of  purchase,  would  function  psychologically  as  a  symbolic 
redemption  of  guilt. 

44 


LITERARY    FORM 

mind  the  sense  of  familistic  consubstantiality  by  which 
parents  take  personal  gratification  in  noting  the  delight  of 
their  child,  when  the  child  has  been  given  some  plaything 
or  is  engrossed  in  some  event.  The  child  is  at  once  outside 
them  and  of  them,  so  that  their  pleasure  by  identification 
could  not  properly  be  called  either  wholly  self-regarding 
or  wholly  extra-regarding.  Their  act  is  as  much  a  giving  as 
an  appropriation.  It  is  a  giving  from  them,  whatever  may 
be  its  satisfactions  to  them. 

Similarly,  the  delegation  of  one's  burden  to  the  sacrificial 
vessel  of  the  scapegoat  is  a  giving,  a  socialization,  albeit  the 
socialization  of  a  loss,  a  transference  of  something,  deeply 
within,  devoutly  a  part  of  one's  own  self — and  perhaps  in 
its  relation  to  consubstantiality  it  draws  more  from  the  at- 
titude of  child  to  parent  than  from  the  attitude  of  parent  to 
child.  It  delegates  the  personal  burden  to  an  external  bearer, 
yet  the  receiver  of  this  burden  possesses  consubstantiality 
with  the  giver,  a  pontification  that  is  contrived  (where  the 
scapegoat  is /the  "bad"  father)  by  objectively  attributing 
one's  own  vices  or  temptations  to  the  delegated  vessel. 

An  explicit  ritual  of  such  transference  may,  paradoxically, 
often  be  the  best  way  of  protecting  the  individual  from  the 
deceptions  of  this  pseudoscientific  objectivity.  For  in  ex- 
plicit ritual,  the  vessel  is  formally  appointed;  but  in  its 
concealed  pseudoscientific  variants,  where  one's  vices  are 
simply  "projected"  upon  the  scapegoat,  and  taken  literally 
to  be  an  objective,  absolute,  nonfunctional,  intrinsic  at- 
tribute of  the  scapegoat  (a  "scientific  fact"  about  the  scape- 
goat's "true  nature"),  there  is  less  incentive  to  discounting. 
A  ritualistic  scapegoat  is  felt  both  to  have  and  not  to  have 
the  character  formally  delegated  to  it — but  a  pseudoscien- 
tific scapegoat,  endowed  by  "projection"  without  an  explicit 
45 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
avowal  of  the  process,  is  felt  purely  and  simply  to  have  the 
assigned  character.  We  may  discount  the  ritualistic  scape- 
goat by  knowing  that  there  is  an  element  of  mummery  in 
the  process  of  transference;  but  pseudoscientific  projection 
suggests  no  discount:  the  scapegoat  is  taken  to  possess  in- 
trinsically the  qualities  we  assign  to  it. 

THE    SACRIFICE    AND    THE    KILL 

We  should  also  note  an  important  ambiguity  in  the  scape- 
goat as  a  "suppurating"  device  (that  brings  the  evil  "to  a 
head").  I  refer  to  an  ambiguity  of  sacrifice  and  kill.  In  the 
sacrifice  there  is  a  kill;  in  the  kill  there  is  a  sacrifice.  But 
one  or  the  other  of  this  pair  may  be  stressed  as  the  "essence" 
of  the  two.  Hemingway,  for  instance,  stresses  the  kill  in  the 
purifying  role  played  by  the  sacrificial  animal,  as  against  the 
stress  upon  the  sacrifice  in  the  story  of  Christ.  In  both 
Hemingway  and  Malraux  we  get  the  kill  as  the  act  from 
which  the  purified  vision  follows.  (We  may  perceive  the 
distinction  by  contrasting  the  assassination  in  the  opening 
pages  of  "Man's  Fate"  with  the  slaying  of  the  uncle  in  Ham- 
let, where  the  play  deals  with  a  long  and  cautious  prepara- 
tion for  the  kill,  with  insight  dramatically  deduced  from  the 
initiation  rather  than  from  the  act.  Perhaps  Macbeth  is 
closer  to  the  contemporary  emphasis,  as  Hamlet  was  closer 
to  the  modalities  of  liberalism;  indeed,  we  might  call  Ham- 
let the  "perfect  liberal  Christ"  whose  agony  inaugurated 
the  liberal  era.) 

In  the  pattern  of  the  Crucifixion  itself,  we  find  Christ 
surrounded  by  two  criminals.  Should  we  treat  this  merely 
as  an  instance  of  what  Trotsky  would  call  an  "amalgam" 
(i.  e.,  a  stratagem  for  visually  and  dramatically  saying,  in 
effect,  "The  so-called  King  of  the  Jews  is  to  be  put  in  the 

46 


LITERARY    FORM 

same  class  with  men  obviously  and  unequivocally  crimi- 
nal")? Or  should  we  not,  even  if  we  hypothetically  granted 
that  this  was  the  motivation  on  the  part  of  the  local  author- 
ities who  were  behind  the  crucifixion,  attribute  its  duration 
throughout  nearly  two  thousand  years  of  tradition  to  a 
much  more  deep-lying  appeal?  To  me,  the  design  suggests 
a  featuring  of  good,  with  the  threat  of  evil  about  the  edges 
(a  dramatically  or  dialectically  contrasting  frame  that 
"points  up"  the  goodness  by  "polarity").  But  in  our  con- 
temporary modes,  we  often  find  the  design  retained  with 
the  positions  reversed:  in  the  "criminal  Christs"  of  gangster 
stories  and  "hard-boiled"  fiction,  it  is  the  evil  that  is 
featured,  with  promise  of  good  as  the  frame.  These  various 
forms  of  disreputable  character  "die  that  we  may  live."  And 
the  Hemingway  emphasis  upon  the  kill  implicit  in  the 
sacrifice  seems  to  be  a  variant  of  this  reversed  design.  The 
sacrificial  bulls  and  wild  game  die  in  behalf  of  the  slayer 
(dying  that  he  may  "live  more  intensely").8 

We  are  now  in  the  thick  of  the  problem  of  criminality 
in  general,  as  it  applies  to  the  devices  of  tragedy  and  puri- 

s  In  Attitudes  Toward  History  (Vol.  II,  footnote,  pp.  13-15)  I  propose  a  distinction 
between  "factional"  and  "universal"  tragedy  that  has  bearing  upon  the  scapegoat 
device  as  employed  in  a  politicalized  setting.  In  comparing  and  contrasting  Mann's 
early  "universal"  tragedy,  Death  in  Venice,  with  his  later  factional  tragedy,  "Mario 
and  the  Magician"  (where  the  guilt  is  not  that  of  "Everyman,"  but  is  dissociatively 
relegated  to  the  fascist  enemy),  I  tried  to  show  that  the  later  work  is  the  earlier  one 
rewritten.  In  Aeschylus  we  seem  to  find  this  order  of  development  reversed.  It  is 
in  an  earlier  play,  his  Persae,  that  we  find  "factional"  tragedy  (the  crime  of  hubris 
being  attributed  to  Xerxes,  the  royal  representative  of  the  political  enemy).  Later, 
the  crime  is  removed  from  a  politicalized  to  a  universalized  setting,  becoming  the 
temptation  of  Everyman. 

A  critic  has  recently  used  a  similar  mode  of  analysis  in  a  polemic  article  on 
Hemingway,  noting  that  the  Hemingway  of  the  hunt  and  the  bull-fight  mode 
shared  sympathetically  in  the  misfortunes  of  the  sacrificed,  whereas  in  his  later 
political  mode  the  fascist  enemy  takes  over  the  role  of  quarry,  and  the  poet  con- 
fronts them  from  without,  wholly  antagonistically.  By  this  approach,  the  political 
opposition  becomes  interpreted  as  a  mere  "rationalization"  of  cruelty,  a  facade  of 
social  purpose  concealing  in  more  "justified"  guise  the  same  sadistic  impulses. 

The  whole  problem  of  the  scapegoat,  I  submit,  is  still  not  charted  thoroughly 

47 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

fication.  A  tragedy  is  not  profound  unless  the  poet  imagines 
the  crime — and  in  thus  imagining  it,  he  symbolically  com- 
mits it.  Similarly,  in  so  far  as  the  audience  participates  in 
the  imaginings,  it  also  participates  in  the  offense.  So  we 
get  Mann's  "sympathy  with  the  abyss,"  Gide's  suggestion 
that  in  "thou  shalt  not"  there  is  implicit  "what  would  hap- 
pen if  .  .  .  ,"  Hopkins'  "tykishness,"  or  Goethe's  state- 
ment that  the  poet  contains  the  capacity  for  all  crime.  We 
also  discern  the  same  concern  behind  Coleridge's  distinc- 
tion between  "innocence"  and  "virtue,"  with  the  latter  and 
more  mature  of  these  two  states  being  possible  only  by 
reason  of  temptation. 

However,  though  we  may  say  that  the  tragic  dramatist, 
to  write  an  ideal  tragedy,  must  meet  the  crime  halfway  (or 
that  no  work  on  the  Crucifixion  is  complete  unless  the  poet 
and  the  audience  vicariously  assist  in  the  crucifying),  this 
is  far  from  vowing  us  to  a  simple  psychoanalytic  interpreta- 
tion to  the  effect  that  the  poet  merely  "sublimates"  his 


enough  to  be  exploited  thus  simply  for  polemic  or  vindictive  ends.  At  least,  not 
until  the  critic  has  explicitly  stated  and  explicitly  disposed  of  an  alternative 
account,  that  might  run  thus:  The  poet,  in  enlisting  his  services  in  the  cause  of 
the  Loyalists  in  Spain,  had  perfectly  rational  grounds  for  his  choice;  but  in  the 
course  of  elaborating  a  poetic  act  that  symbolized  this  enlistment,  he  necessarily 
drew  on  methods  he  had  developed  in  the  past.  The  selection  of  the  fascist  as 
enemy  scapegoat  would,  by  this  interpretation,  be  not  "rationalized"  (in  the 
psychoanalytic  sense  of  the  term),  but  rational.  That  is,  the  fascist  was,  in  the 
most  objective  sense  of  the  term,  an  enemy. 

The  matter  is  further  complicated,  in  the  religious  sphere,  by  the  fact  that, 
whereas  on  its  face,  the  emphasis  upon  the  sacrifice  is  much  superior  to  the 
emphasis  upon  the  kill,  in  the  dialectic  of  concrete  historical  situations  important 
matters  of  insignia  figure.  Both  history  and  anthropology  supply  us  with  plentv 
of  instances  in  which  a  priesthood  has  exploited  the  sounder  method  for  malign 
purposes  (in  consciously  or  unconsciously  so  interweaving  it  with  essentially  un- 
related structures  of  ownership  and  special  privilege  that  in  actual  practice  its 
function  becomes  the  very  reverse  of  a  religious  one).  The  result  is  alienation 
and  anguish  that  may  lead,  by  the  simplifications  of  dialectical  pressure,  to  the 
adoption  of  a  counter-method  (saying  in  effect,  in  the  words  with  which  Virginia 
Woolf  ended  an  early  story:  "You  go  this  way;  alas!  I  go  that").  When  the 
Devil  quotes  scripture,  poets  try  to  avoid  the  ambiguity  by  a  Black  Mass  (B  hav- 
ing replaced  A,  they  would  make  amends  by  having  A  replace  B). 

48 


LITERARY    FORM 

criminality  by  aesthetic  subterfuge.  I  have  seen  consterna- 
tion on  people's  faces,  for  instance,  when  I  have  suggested 
that  Mann  contains  within  his  work  all  the  errors  to  which 
the  Nazis  are  prone.  The  remark  is  but  preparation  for  a 
very  important  revision,  namely:  He  contains  them,  but 
encompasses  them  within  a  wider  frame — and  as  so  encom- 
passed, they  act  entirely  differently  than  they  would  if  "ef- 
ficiently" isolated  in  their  "purity."  They  are  but  part  of 
a  wider  configuration,  and  their  function  in  this  wider  con- 
figuration is  not  at  all  the  same  function  as  they  would  have, 
if  not  thus  harnessed.9 

Obviously,  vicarious  crime  requires  vicarious  modes  of 
expiation.  William  Troy  has  called  attention  to  the  fact 
that,  in  the  case  of  Lawrence,  the  score  is  settled  by  the 

9  There  is,  however,  a  pattern  in  Mann's  work  that  must  increasingly  give  him 
trouble,  if  he  continues  with  the  Joseph  story.  I  refer  to  the  nature  of  his  irony, 
which  is  most  clearly  revealed  in  his  early  story,  "Tonio  Kroger."  Here  the  form 
is  constructed  about  a  flat  antithesis  between  "bourgeois"  and  "Bohemian,"  with 
Tonio  Kroger's  sympathies  directly  contrary  to  his  position.  When  he  is  among 
the  burghers,  he  thinks  yearningly  of  Bohemia;  when  he  is  among  the  Bohemians, 
his  nostalgic  vote  is  for  the  burghers. 

Applying  this  ironic  ambiguity  to  Mann's  present  situation,  we  are  led  to 
suspect  a  predicament  of  this  sort:  That  Mann  would  be  more  likely  to  continue 
his  Joseph  story  from  an  anti-Nazi  point  of  view  if  he  had  remained  in  Germany 
than  in  his  present  situation  as  exile.  For  in  so  far  as  the  Tonio  Kroger  pattern 
of  irony  is  characteristic  of  his  method,  his  situation  as  an  exile  would  dispose 
him  towards  a  greater  measure  of  interpretation  from  the  Nazi  point  of  view;  i.  e., 
with  an  anti-Semitic  emphasis. 

Whatever  may  be  Mann's  method  as  an  imaginative  writer,  however,  we  know 
that,  as  a  citizen,  a  critic,  a  writer  of  hortatory  political  pamphlets,  he  is  wholly 
the  liberal  in  his  attitude  towards  anti-Semitism.  Hence,  he  would  seem  to  have 
a  choice  between  leaving  the  Joseph  story  unfinished  or  radically  altering  his 
characteristic  mode  of  irony  this  late  in  life  (for  it  is  unthinkable  that  he  would 
consent  to  go  on  with  the  story  in  terms  of  a  Nazi  perspective).  Incidentally,  since 
I  first  thought  of  this  problem  in  strategy,  I  have  been  told  that  Mann  has  written 
a  piece  to  "Bruder  Hitler"  (which  would  be  translatable,  in  our  present  co- 
ordination, as  "consubstantial  Hitler").  I  have  not  seen  the  piece,  and  the  rumor 
may  be  inaccurate,  but  the  rumor  goes  that  it  is  written  in  a  mood  of  amicable 
cajolery.  If  this  is  the  case,  it  would  seem  to  be  an  attempt,  on  Mann's  part,  to 
retain  his  earlier  pattern  while  modifying  it  for  the  exigencies  of  his  present 
situation.  Another  response  may  be  noted  in  his  turn  to  The  Beloved  Returns, 
a  theme  politically  ambiguous,  in  that  Goethe's  love  affair  can  be  shared  by 
Nazis  and  anti-Nazis  alike. 

49 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

poet's  offering  of  himself  as  the  victim,  as  sacrificial  king- 
god  (which  is  more  commendable  as  efficiency  than  as 
modesty).  I  have  heard  a  writer  of  fiction  state  a  somewhat 
similar  aesthetic  position;  it  is  her  task,  she  told  me,  to 
undergo  great  discomfort  in  the  pains  of  composition,  that 
readers  may  in  their  reading  be  comforted. 

Another  variant  is  seen  in  the  many  strategies  of  satanism, 
the  "Byronic"  line  that  we  see  emerging  in  Milton,  and 
that  is  handed  down  through  Coleridge,  Poe,  Baudelaire, 
Rimbaud,  and  Gide  (with  novelists  like  Stendhal  and  Dos- 
toevsky  also  to  be  included).  Its  purest  form  is  perhaps  re- 
vealed in  the  old  heresy  of  the  Iscariotae,  who  maintained 
that  Judas,  rather  than  Christ,  should  be  our  primary  ob- 
ject of  worship;  for  if  the  human  race  was  given  the  pos- 
sibility of  redemption  by  the  sacrifice  of  Christ,  it  was  Judas' 
act  of  betrayal  that  brought  about  this  sacrifice — and  Christ 
is  now  with  the  Father,  whereas  Judas,  for  his  role  in  the 
redemption  of  man,  damned  himself  to  rot  in  eternal  hell. 
Gide's  ingeniously  perverted  scrupulosity  has  perhaps  given 
us  some  of  the  most  interesting  variations  on  this  theme, 
culminating  in  his  great  sympathy  with  the  fils  naturel  as 
the  ideal  type  (the  man  of  guilt-laden  substance,  like  Laf- 
cadio,  whose  father  is  vague,  but  whose  mother  was  on  sur- 
prisingly intimate  terms  with  a  surprisingly  large  number 
of  "uncles" — precisely  the  familistic  role  that  the  Eliza- 
bethans, with  their  strong  sense  of  feudalistic  identity, 
would  select  for  their  "villains"). 

Perhaps  the  most  normal  mode  of  expiation  is  that  of 
socialization  (the  "socialization  of  losses").  So  the  church 
founded  the  notion  of  brotherhood  on  the  concept  of 
original  sin,  the  preoccupational  basis  of  a  guild  of  the 
guilty  (such  expressions  as  "misery  loves  company,"  "all 
5° 


LITERARY    FORM 

in  the  same  boat,"  "all  doing  the  same"  will  suggest  the 
motivating  basis  here).  And  the  patriot  may  slay  for  his 
country,  his  act  being  exonerated  by  the  justice  of  serving 
his  group.  I  do  not  see  how  we  could  categorically  accept 
or  reject  the  strategy  of  expiation  by  the  socialization  of 
losses.  In  different  concrete  social  textures,  there  are  dif- 
ferent modes  of  such  socialization,  with  varying  degrees  of 
accuracy  and  scope.  The  gangster  who  slays  an  informer  to 
protect  his  gang  (i.  e.,  out  of  loyalty)  enacts  this  strategy  just 
as  truly  as  would  the  revolutionary  emancipator,  like  Wash- 
ington or  Lenin.  Thus,  the  strategy  could  not  be  categori- 
cally approved  or  condemned,  but  would  require  a  place  in 
a  ladder  or  hierarchy  of  such  strategies.10 

THE     CONCEALED     OFFENSE 

There  are  many  depths  still  to  be  plumbed,  in  bringing 
up  for  conscious  observation  the  many  modes  of  criminality 
hidden  beneath  the  surface  of  art  (criminality,  I  repeat,  that 
is  not,  in  mature  works,  merely  a  criminal  tendency  re- 

10  In  Schumann,  we  see  a  variant  of  the  socializing  strategy,  in  his  fiction  of  a 
Bund,  the  Davidsbiindler,  in  league  with  him  against  the  Philistines.  Here  he 
socialized  his  sense  of  persecution  by  the  notion  of  an  imaginary  union  against  a 
common  enemy.  Subsequently,  in  nervous  exhaustion,  he  fell  under  the  obsession 
of  one  relentlessly  persistent  note  that  pursued  him  like  a  gadfly,  never  ceasing  its 
drastic  oneness.  (As  the  sacred  syllable  AUM  was  felt,  by  the  mystic,  to  sum  up 
all  existence  in  a  benign  oneness,  so  we  got  here  a  reversed  malign  counterpart, 
concentrating  all  evil  into  a  single  vessel  of  sound.)  In  anguish,  he  turned  to  self- 
destruction,  his  own  disintegration  being  the  only  "solution"  for  such  perfect 
integration  on  the  part  of  "the  enemy." 

Mystic  theories  of  immediate  communion  between  the  Self  as  microcosm  and 
the  Universe  as  macrocosm  (between  the  Self  as  a  Universe  in  parvo  and  the 
Universe  as  the  Self  writ  large)  may  lead  to  another  variant  of  malignity  in 
the  socializing  strategy.  Where  this  communion  is  direct  (i.  e.,  felt  to  be  without 
the  intervention  of  institutions  or  other  persons)  we  may  get,  through  merger 
of  subject  and  object,  a  merging  of  the  two  "secrets,"  the  secret  of  the  unutterable 
Self  and  the  Enigma  of  the  Universe.  Here  the  vessel  of  the  private  secret  has  inter- 
course with  the  vessel  of  the  universal  secret.  Hence,  the  Universe  being  conceived 
after  the  analogy  of  the  private  Self,  and  the  private  secret  being  guilt-laden,  the 
Universe  itself  may  become  guilt-laden. 

51 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
pressed  by  social  norms  and  gratified  by  aesthetic  subterfuge, 
but  is  actually  transformed,  transcended,  transubstantiated, 
by  incorporation  into  a  wider  context  of  symbolic  action). 
Occasionally  I  seem  to  detect  it  behind  a  kind  of  uncon- 
scious punning  in  language,  particularly  where  an  author 
could  supply  directer  words  than  the  ones  he  uses,  but  en- 
counters both  external  and  internal  resistance  to  their  use. 
I  might  get  at  the  point  in  this  wise: 

Recall  the  use  of  ablaut  in  the  work  of  Hopkins:  that  is, 
the  retaining  of  a  fixed  consonantal  structure,  with  a  varia- 
tion of  the  vowels  (ablaut  referring  in  grammar  to  such 
transformations  as  "sing,  sang,  sung,"  where  the  change  of 
vowel,  in  the  unchanged  consonantal  structure,  indicates  a 
change  in  grammatical  function  with  constancy  of  over-all 
meaning).  There  is  also  a  relevant  passage  in  Coleridge's 
Table  Talk,  where  he  says  that  the  consonants  are  "the 
framework  of  the  word,"  and  cites  an  example  of  a  simple 
shorthand,  understandable  without  vowels:  "Gd  crtd  th 
hvn  nd  th  rth."  We  may  also  borrow  a  reference  for  our 
purposes  from  The  American  Language,  the  section  of  "For- 
bidden Words,"  where  Mencken  lists  the  Hollywood  device 
for  pronouncing  the  "four-letter  words"  euphemistically 
"by  changing  the  vowel  of  each  to  e  and  inserting  r  after  it," 
a  phonetic  alchemy  for  instance  by  which  "nuts"  became 
"nerts."  Our  point  is  difficult  to  make,  however,  since 
pudency  forces  us  to  employ  circumlocutions  in  place  of 
direct  illustrations — but  one  may  detect  the  kind  of  punning 
we  have  in  mind  in  observing  a  passage  from  The  Hairy  Ape, 
where  Yank  is  reminiscing  on  his  hateful  lusting  after 
Mildred,  and  exclaims:  "I'll  fix  her!"  Altering  the  vowel 
experimentally  by  ablaut,  we  may  with  a  little  patience  and 
not  too  innocent  a  past,  come  close  upon  a  socially  for- 
r>2 


LITERARY    FORM 

bidden  form  that  expresses  perfectly  the  attitude  of  the 

character,  "Yank,"  who  had  thrown  his  shovel  at  the  girl. 

Let  us,  however,  illustrate  the  point  by  an  elaborate  and 
unwieldy  subterfuge.  Let  us  imagine  that  there  is  a  socially 
forbidden  four-letter  word,  "hivn."  By  the  Hollywood  de- 
vice for  euphemism,  this  could  be  refurbished  with  im- 
munity as  "hervn."  But  might  a  writer  carry  such  subterfuge 
a  step  further,  by  ablaut  punning,  and  when  in  his  attitudes 
he  meant  "You  are  a  very  hivn,"  might  he  say  actually, 
recording  this  upon  his  linguistic  facade  as,  "You  are 
heavenly"?  1X 

The  possibility  of  such  concealed  punning,  where  the 
pun  is  not  however  based  on  a  tonal  correspondence,  may  be 
glimpsed  in  the  passage  on  the  blessing  of  the  snakes  in 
"The  Ancient  Mariner."  Where  the  objects  of  this  act  reveal 
such  ambiguity,  might  we  not  look  for  a  corresponding 
ambiguity  in  the  act  itself?  That  is:  can  one  have  an  am- 
biguous object  of  a  verb  without  having  a  corresponding 
ambiguity  in  the  verb  itself?  Hence,  might  an  act  of  blessing 
not  be  merely  the  act  that  is  proclaimed  on  its  face,  but  also 
contain  an  ingredient  whereby  the  blessing  was  something 
quite  different  from  a  blessing?  This  possibility  gains  in 
precision  where,  in  Remorse,  Ordonio,  the  vessel  of  the 
malign,  says  to  Alvar,  the  vessel  of  the  benign:  "Curse  me 
with  forgiveness."  Following  out  this  pattern,  if  "forgive- 
ness" equals  "curse,"  would  not  "bless"  equal  "accuse"?  12 

ii  Incidentally,  several  days  after  having  made  up  this  hypothetical  illustration, 
I  suddenly  recalled  an  early  story  of  mine,  of  mildly  satanistic  cast,  in  which  I 
had  named  the  protagonist  "Ivn."  At  the  time  I  had  no  idea  whatsoever  why 
this  sound  seemed  to  me  appropriate.  I  believe  that  the  above  elucubrations 
reveal  what  was  going  on,  in  that  apparently  arbitrary  construction  of  a  name. 

12  Hawthorne,  in  The  Scarlet  Letter,  touches  upon  the  same  ambiguity  when 
he  writes,  of  Hester  Prynne:  "She  was  patient, — a  martyr  indeed — but  she  forbore 
to  pray  for  her  enemies;  lest,  in  spite  of  her  forgiving  aspirations,  the  words 
of    the    blessing   should    stubbornly    twist    themselves    into    a    curse."    We    also 

53 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
A  prayer  is  a  strategy  for  taking  up  the  slack  between  what 
is  wanted  and  what  is  got.  Hence,  a  "prayerful"  sanction 
implies  that  the  thing  sanctioned  by  the  prayer  is  thus  im- 
pulsively sanctioned  because  it  is  not  of  the  essence  prayer- 
fully attributed  to  it.  A  new  essence  is  being  delegated  to  it; 
it  is  being  ritualistically  ordained  as  member  in  a  new  cluster 
because  of  the  fact  that  it  is  not  naturally  a  member  of  this 
cluster.  Hence,  in  the  ordination  there  is  implied  a  recogni- 
tion of  its  tendency  to  "fall"  from  the  role  assigned  to  it.  If 
Coleridge's  drug  were  an  important  ingredient  in  the  evil 
thus  being  "blessed,"  we  could  well  account  for  the  am- 
biguity of  the  "blessing."  For  however  thorough  its  ritualis- 
tic redemption  might  be,  the  fact  remained  that,  in  its  ma- 
terial identity,  it  retained  the  full  malignity  of  its  effects. 
However,  there  are  two  kinds  of  "unutterable,"  the  un- 
utterably good  as  well  as  the  unutterably  bad,  with  an  am- 
biguous area  containing  something  of  both.  We  may  recall 
the  vast  collation  of  material  on  this  subject  in  Frazer's 
Golden  Bough,  illustrating  the  various  linguistic  subter- 
fuges used  by  savages  to  avoid  pronouncing  the  names  of 
Kings,  of  certain  socially  superior  relatives,  and  of  the  de- 
ceased. The  process  of  circumlocution  is  frequently  carried 
out  with  such  thoroughness  that,  if  the  deceased  happened 
to  bear  the  name  of  some  natural  object,  the  tribe  must 
rename  this  object,  with  the  result  that  the  tribal  idiom  is 
constantly  changing,  with  a  much  higher  percentage  of 
neologisms  than  we  find  in  sophisticated  Western  vocabu- 
laries where  the  invention  of  new  words  has  been  necessary 
for  naming  the  many  new  objects,  processes,  and  relation- 
find  the  same  kind  of  scruples  lurking  behind  the  motivations  of  religious 
sectarians  who  refuse  to  swear  an  oath,  sensing  the  profanation  behind  the  act, 
as  implicit  in  the  double  usage  of  these  two  words  themselves. 

54 


LITERARY    FORM 

ships  resulting  from  the  industrial  revolution.  Frazer  also 

points  out  that  not  only  were  the  same  words  to  be  avoided, 

but  words  similar  in  tonality,  or  words  in  which  the  name 

appeared  as  an  ingredient  (as  if  the  King  or  the  deceased  were 

named  "cat,"  and  we  were  accordingly  to  avoid  the  word 

"concatenation"). 

The  Latin  sacer,  we  may  recall,  did  not  correspond  simply 
to  our  word  "sacred."  The  criminal  was  sacer  (an  ambiguity 
that  was  at  least  retained  in  the  vocabulary  of  action  if  not 
that  of  explicit  linguistic  usage,  as  we  see  it  in  the  "rite  of 
sanctuary"  whereby  a  fugitive  from  the  law  could  not  be 
molested  while  under  the  protection  of  the  altar,  or  perhaps 
in  the  design  of  the  Crucifixion,  with  Christ  surrounded  by 
thieves).  Sacer  might  thus  be  more  accurately  translated  as 
"untouchable,"  since  the  extremely  good,  the  extremely  bad, 
and  the  extremely  powerful  are  equally  "untouchable." 

Or  better  still,  we  might  use  simply  our  word  "power," 
for  "power"  suggests  the  motive  behind  "untouchability" 
itself,  and  contains  the  same  ambiguity,  as  with  the  powers 
of  electricity,  that  are  "good"  if  properly  channelized,  but 
are  "bad"  if  one  does  not  guard  himself  against  contact  with 
them.  Power  is  ambivalent,  though  we  have  in  recent  years 
seen  philosophic  attempts  to  proclaim  either  absolute  good- 
ness or  absolute  badness  as  the  "essence"  of  power.  Dewey's 
instrumentalism,  equating  technology  with  "good"  (via  the 
steps:  [1]  technology  is  intelligent;  and  [2]  intelligence  is  a 
"good"),  illustrates  the  first  kind  of  essentializing;  Russell 
seems  recently  to  have  voted  for  the  contrary  essentialization. 
The  theme  of  fascination  in  Coleridge's  Mystery  Poems  is 
that  of  an  ambivalent  power.  He  gives  us,  as  it  were,  a  poetic 
thesaurus  dictionary  of  terms  ranging  from  thoroughly 
"good"  fascination  to  thoroughly  "bad"  fascination. 
55 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

The  name  of  Jehovah  was  "unspeakable,"  for  it  repre- 
sented the  Almighty  Power.  In  Greek  it  was  called  the 
"Tetragrammaton,"  which  by  a  cunning,  punning  accident 
means  "four-letter  word."  And  we  find  an  interesting  variant 
of  such  verbal  deflection  in  Silone's  Bread  and  Wine,  where 
one  character  always  refers  to  Mussolini  obliquely  as  "Etc." 

Freud  has  given  us  the  classic  study  of  the  "bad"  pun, 
including  not  merely  the  explicit  verbal  pun  but  the  im- 
plicit pun,  where  the  dream  enacts  the  pun  as  in  charades. 
He  has  dealt  with  the  many  variants  of  the  lapsus  linguae 
whereby,  in  giving  A  the  name  of  B,  we  reveal  that  for  us  A 
is  a  representative  of  B.  I  would  contend  that  he  has  over- 
stressed  the  element  of  "suppressed  desire"  in  such  analogiz- 
ing. We  need  not  give  A  the  name  of  B  simply  because  we 
want  him  to  enact  the  role  that  we  attribute  to  B;  we  may 
also  fear  that  his  person  is  in  the  same  bin  as  B's.  Or  we  may 
simply  be  strongly  convinced  that  his  role  is  like  B's  role  (in 
situations  where  the  sameness  of  essence,  even  if  true,  would 
cause  us  neither  gratification  nor  discomfort — as  were  we  to 
think  B  a  harmless  bore,  and  were  implicitly  to  call  A  a 
harmless  bore  by  "erroneously"  calling  him  B). 

What  I  am  trying  to  get  at  is  this:  the  "bad"  pun  (arising 
from  a  conflict  of  impulses  where  one  states  an  attitude 
despite  himself)  is  the  kind  most  amenable  to  study.  But 
should  we  not  look  for  "benignities"  that  correspond  to  such 
"malignities"?  Should  there  not  also  be  "good"  puns?  As 
there  are  cases  where  we,  in  roundabout  ways,  pronounce 
the  unutterable  "four-letter-words,"  might  there  not  be 
corresponding  cases  where  we,  in  roundabout  ways,  pro- 
nounce the  unutterable  "Tetragrammaton"? 

Let  us  begin  with  an  instance  where  the  name  of  God  is 
uttered  (the  Christian  God  being  kindly  in  essence,  as 
56 


LITERARY    FORM 

against  the  ambivalence  of  Jehovah  as  a  "power  god,"  His 
name  is  not  in  the  pure  unutterable  class,  and  it  is  only  in 
neurotics  and  the  intensely  religious  that  we  find  the  un- 
utterability  of  the  Secret  stressed — the  "hermetic"  styles  of 
post- War  poetry  being  our  nearest  aesthetic  variant  of  this): 
I  recall  a  prayer,  learned  in  childhood,  which  ran 

God  loving  me 
Guard  me  in  sleep 
Guide  me  to  Thee, 

where,  if  we  test  this  by  the  Hopkins  method  of  ablaut  pun- 
ning, we  find  that  the  verbs  of  lines  two  and  three,  predi- 
cates of  the  noun  in  line  one,  merely  restate  the  noun,  thus: 


G d 

G d 

G d 


In  sum:  "to  guard"  and  "to  guide"  are  pun-conjugations  of 
the  verb,  "to  god."  I  should  thus  here  treat  "guard"  and 
"guide"  as  "god-words"  in  the  psychic  economy  of  the  per- 
son who  wrote  this  prayer.  And  if  I  knew  who  the  writer 
was,  and  had  other  writings  by  him,  I  should  inspect  them 
from  the  standpoint  of  the  possibility  that  "guard"  and 
"guide"  as  used  by  him  in  other  contexts  were  also  round- 
about ways  of  saying  "God"  (and  possibly  "forbidden"  ways 
— as  he  might  be  saying  "God"  in  contexts  where  his  audi- 
tors would  object  if  he  explicitly  motivated  his  statement  by 
this  "ground  of  proof"). 

If  such  correlations  are  true,  however,  we  must  be  able  to 
substantiate  them  by  objective  citation  of  contexts.  An  ex- 
plicit slip  of  the  tongue  occurs  when  two  conflicting  notes 

57 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
are  struck  simultaneously,  as  with  a  chord  in  music.  But  in 
most  cases  there  is  no  slip  of  the  tongue;  the  two  elements 
are  drawn  out  in  narrative  sequence,  as  when  the  notes  in  a 
musical  chord  are  not  struck  simultaneously,  but  in  succes- 
sion, in  arpeggio,  as  you  proceed  from  one  subject  to  the 
other. 

My  favorite  instance  is  that  of  Senator  Carter  Glass,  who 
in  his  "inspired"  defense  of  the  gold  standard  would  give  us 
progression  from  talk  of  "gold"  to  talk  of  "God"  (again  our 
g d  structure  with  ablaut). 

We  have  several  stages  "along  the  spectrum  of  yellow." 
We  have  excremental  yellow  (as  in  "yellow  journalism");  we 
have  its  first  transcendence  in  the  "yellow  metal";  we  have 
its  second  transcendence  in  the  yellow  of  sunlight;  and  its 
ultimate  transcendence  in  that  "super-radiance"  of  divinity, 
the  blinding  essence  of  light  that  infused  Dante's  heaven, 
making  sunlight  itself  seem  by  comparison  a  shadow.  Typi- 
cal Freudian  exegesis  would  "reduce"  all  these  to  the  kind  of 
"forbiddenness"  that  is  contained  in  the  taboos  of  stage  one. 
Our  method  would  require  us  to  judge  by  the  contexts 
alone.  If  "God"  is  but  a  circus  front  for  "gold,"  this  fact  will 
be  revealed  by  examining  the  author's  work;  and  if  "God" 
is  imaginatively  slighted  and  "gold"  filled  out  with  imagina- 
tive fullness,  we  may  take  "gold"  as  the  essence  and  "God" 
as  the  accident.  If  we  wished  to  reduce  "gold"  in  turn  to  its 
lowest  stage  as  "essence,"  we  should  have  to  reveal  the 
double-entendres  at  every  turn  (as  were  we  to  show  that 
certain  pleas  for  "gold"  make  more  sense  if  read  as  pleas 
for  its  "transcendence  downward"). 

To  sum  up:  if  A  is  in  the  same  chordal  structure  with  B 
and  C,  its  kindred  membership  must  be  revealed  by  nar- 
58 


LITERARY    FORM 

rative  arpeggios.  That  is,  its  function  as  an  associate  will  be 
revealed  by  associational  progressions  in  the  work  itself  (as 
you  find  a  progression  from  A  to  B  to  C  in  one  place,  from 
A  to  C  to  B  in  another,  from  B  to  A  in  another,  etc.).  The 
ambivalent  notion  of  sacer  will  be  more  fruitful  for  leads 
here  than  a  less  dialectical  essentializing  that  reduces  the 
whole  matter  of  the  ambivalence  in  the  forbidden  to  either 
a  "good"  or  "bad"  alone.  And  the  analysis  of  equational 
structures  within  a  work  should  reveal  terms  that  "repre- 
sent" sometimes  one,  sometimes  the  other,  of  the  two  princi- 
ples, as  dissociated,  and  sometimes  their  interlocking,  as 
Coleridge  says  of  Prometheus:  "Prometheus,  in  the  old 
myths,  and  for  the  most  part  in  Aeschylus,  is  the  Redeemer 
and  the  devil  jumbled  together,"  a  statement  he  repeats  the 
other  way  round  when  discussing  the  Book  of  Job:  "Satan, 
in  the  prologue,  does  not  mean  the  devil,  our  Diabolus. 
There  is  no  calumny  in  his  words.  He  is  rather  the  circuitor, 
the  accusing  spirit,  a  dramatic  attorney-general." 

As  religions  mature,  there  is  the  tendency  to  dissociate 
the  ambivalence  of  power,  by  dramatic  analysis,  into  a 
"good"  principle  vs.  an  "evil"  principle.  But  there  is  a  tech- 
nical problem  implicit  in  this  very  act  of  dissociation.  For 
the  dissociated  principles  could  not  come  to  grips  without 
some  ground  common  to  both;  and  in  this  common  ground 
the  ambivalent  factor  is  restored.  We  may  glimpse  the 
process  behind  the  role  of  Milton's  Satan.  The  Greek  Luci- 
fer had  brought  to  man  a  part  of  divinity,  but  had  brought  it 
divisively,  as  an  offense  against  the  gods.  In  the  Christian 
cosmology,  Christ  had  become  revised  as  an  unambiguously 
benign  Lucifer,  bringing  light  as  a  representative  of  the 
Godhead.  Thus  the  divisive  part  had  become  the  synecdo- 
chic  part:  a  part  not  broken  from  its  source,  but  integral 
59 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
with  its  source.  Milton's  rebellious  angel,  in  his  tendency 
to  become  a  hero,  moves  us  back  into  the  original  ambiguity, 
where  the  part  fluctuates  between  its  dialectical  poles  as 
associate  and  dissociate  of  the  whole.  A  dissociate  part  might 
be  called  negatively  synecdochic  (as  the  villain  is  a  negative 
representation  of  the  hero).  As  an  angel,  Lucifer  is  in  syn- 
ecdochic relationship  with  God  (i.  e.,  he  is  a  "messenger"). 
As  a  rebel,  he  is  in  negatively  synecdochic  relationship. 

BEAUTY     AND    THE     SUBLIME 

I  should  now  like  to  draw  these  various  remarks  on 
tragedy,  sacrifice,  the  kill,  criminality,  and  obscenity  to- 
gether by  reference  to  a  theory  of  beauty.  If  we  placed  a  cer- 
tain lozenge-like  design  on  a  cake,  and  called  it  "beautiful," 
we  should  mean  by  the  epithet  such  kind  of  "beauty"  as 
would  be  in  the  same  bin  with  "pretty,"  "pleasant,"  and 
"appealing."  If,  however,  we  found  this  same  lozenge-like 
design  on  a  rattlesnake,  and  overcame  our  terror  sufficiently 
to  pronounce  an  aesthetic  judgment  upon  it,  we  might  again 
call  it  "beautiful,"  but  the  epithet  would  here  be  in  the  same 
bin  with  "sinister,"  "ominous,"  "dangerously  fascinating." 
And  were  it  on  a  woman's  scarf,  we  should  veer  towards  one 
or  the  other  of  these  qualities,  depending  upon  our  attitude 
towards  the  woman  herself  (whether  we  thought  of  her  as 
"likable"  or  as  "fascinating"). 

The  distinction  is  offered  as  a  way  of  suggesting  that  the 
whole  subject  of  "beauty"  became  obscured  in  much  aes- 
thetic theory  of  the  nineteenth  century  because  it  tended  to 
start  from  notions  of  decoration  rather  than  from  notions  of 
the  sublime.  There  are  many  possible  ingredients  behind 
this  motivation,  among  them  being  the  fact  that  aesthetic 
theorizing  was  largely  done  by  people  in  comfortable  situa- 
60 


LITERARY  FORM 
tions  for  people  in  comfortable  situations.  But  there  is  a 
subtler  factor  operating  here:  poetry  is  produced  for  pur- 
poses of  comfort,  as  part  of  the  consolatio  philosophiae.  It  is 
undertaken  as  equipment  for  living,  as  a  ritualistic  way  of 
arming  us  to  confront  perplexities  and  risks.  It  would  pro- 
tect us. 

Let  us  remind  ourselves,  however,  that  implicit  in  the 
idea  of  protection  there  is  the  idea  of  something  to  be  pro- 
tected against.  Hence,  to  analyze  the  element  of  comfort  in 
beauty,  without  false  emphasis,  we  must  be  less  monistic, 
more  "dialectical,"  in  that  we  include  also,  as  an  important 
aspect  of  the  recipe,  the  element  of  discomfort  (actual  or 
threatened)  for  which  the  poetry  is  "medicine,"  therapeutic 
or  prophylactic.  And  I  submit  that  if  we  retraced  the  course 
of  aesthetic  speculation,  until  we  came  to  its  earlier  mode, 
we  should  get  a  much  more  accurate  description  of  what  is 
going  on  in  poetry.  I  refer  to  the  time  when  the  discussion 
explicitly  pivoted  about  the  distinction  between  the  ridicu- 
lous and  the  sublime. 

As  soon  as  we  approach  the  subject  in  these  terms,  we 
have  in  the  very  terms  themselves  a  constant  reminder  that 
the  threat  is  the  basis  of  beauty.  Some  vastness  of  magnitude, 
power,  or  distance,  disproportionate  to  ourselves,  is  "sub- 
lime." We  recognize  it  with  awe.  We  find  it  dangerous  in  its 
fascination.  And  we  equip  ourselves  to  confront  it  by  piety, 
by  stylistic  medicine,  and  by  structural  assertion  (form,  a 
public  matter  that  symbolically  enrolls  us  with  allies  who 
will  share  the  burdens  with  us).  The  ridiculous,  on  the  con- 
trary, equips  us  by  impiety,  as  we  refuse  to  allow  the  threat 
its  authority:  we  rebel,  and  courageously  play  pranks  when 
"acts  of  God"  themselves  are  oppressing  us  (as  with  the  many 
courageous  jests  that  the  farmers  of  the  Dust  Bowl  invented, 
61 


PHILOSOPHY   OF    LITERARY    FORM 

to  cancel  off  the  dread  of  earthen  clouds  sifting  through  the 
cracks  of  their  windows,  into  their  rooms,  into  their  very 
lungs  and  flesh). 

Should  we  not  begin  with  this  as  our  way  into  the  subject 
— treating  all  other  manifestations  of  symbolic  action  as 
attenuated  variants  of  pious  awe  (the  sublime)  and  impious 
rebellion  (the  ridiculous)?  The  paternity  is  clear  enough 
in  works  that  depict  either  the  ominousness  of  war  or  the 
fun-making  of  soldiers.  We  discern  it  behind  the  social  phe- 
nomenon called  "earthquake  love,"  at  the  time  of  San  Fran- 
cisco's disaster,  when  the  whole  city  was  for  a  time  unified 
in  brotherly  exaltation  by  the  common  danger — while  we 
had  a  chance  to  see  the  contrary  response  in  the  many  hu- 
morous anecdotes  following  the  tremor  in  New  York  a  few 
years  ago.  Or  we  got  a  record  of  the  two  responses  recently, 
when  the  radio  hoax  of  the  great  "Martian  invasion"  divided 
the  listeners  into  piously  terrorized  and  the  impious  sophisti- 
cates. 

We  move  into  attenuated  areas  as  we  depart  from  mani- 
festations of  divine,  natural,  or  astronomical  powers  to  so- 
cial aspects  of  authority:  with  kings  and  heroes  partaking  of 
both,  and  commercial  or  parliamentary  figures,  insignia  of 
social  classes,  and  the  like  leading  us  farther  afield,  into 
purely  secular  aspects  of  admiration  and  disobedience.  We 
grasp  the  aesthetic  motivation  behind  Corneille's  tragedies 
of  "admiration,"  and  behind  the  satyr-plays  in  which  the 
Greeks  topped  off  their  trilogies  of  pious  awe  by  burlesques 
that  depicted  the  great  legendary  heroes  as  buffoons  and 
boastful  asses.  As  we  move  into  the  aesthetic  of  social  realism, 
and  thence  into  naturalism,  the  "dangers"  become  those  of 
hypocrisy,  smugness,  outworn  tradition,  material  interests 
pumped  up  into  idealistic  balloons,  wrong  but  powerful, 
62 


LITERARY    FORM 

with  impiety  taking  the  form  of  "indictment"  and  "de- 
bunking." 

•-  Recalling  that  a  founder  of  modern  aesthetic  theory,  Less- 
ing,  built  his  speculations  about  the  snake-entangled  La- 
ocoon  group,  why  should  we  not  take  this  "underlying  situ- 
ation" into  account  as  an  important  aspect  of  his  doctrines? 
(For  should  we  not  always  consider  a  work's  starting  point 
as  a  significant  "lead"  into  our  interpretation  of  the  work's 
motivation?  Thus,  similarly,  I  would  have  the  Decameron 
read,  not  as  a  series  of  hilarious  stories,  but  as  a  series  of 
hilarious  stories  told  during  a  plague.)  And  we  see  Coleridge, 
among  the  greatest  critics  of  world  literature,  likening  the 
work  of  Shakespeare  to  the  movements  of  a  serpent,  while 
in  "The  Ancient  Mariner,"  a  poem  explicitly  of  fascination 
and  terror,  we  have  that  fatal  moment  of  re-creation  when 
the  loathsome  water  snakes  are  proclaimed  blessed  and 
beautiful. 

The  story  of  Orpheus  and  his  voyage  to  Hades  has  much 
to  tell  us  about  the  ways  of  poetry.  But  a  still  more  basic 
myth,  it  seems  to  me,  is  that  of  Perseus  and  the  Medusa — 
Perseus  who  could  not  face  the  serpent-headed  monster  with- 
out being  turned  to  stone,  but  was  immune  to  this  danger  if 
he  observed  it  by  reflection  in  a  mirror.  The  poet's  style,  his 
form  (a  social  idiom),  is  this  mirror,  enabling  him  to  con- 
front the  risk,  but  by  the  protection  of  an  indirect  reflection. 
Begin  with  this,  I  suggest,  and  look  at  the  many  aspects  of 
poetic  expression  as  but  departures  from  it,  watered,  or 
toned  down,  or  farther  from  the  center,  but  all  best  analyzed 
as  attenuations  of  the  sublime-ridiculous  problem,  rather 
than  as  idioms  wholly  disrelated  to  it. 

As  there  is  the  sublime  serpent  of  beauty,  so  there  is  also 
the  sublime  serpent  of  wisdom,  thus  restoring  us,  via  the 

63 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

sublime,  to  a  unitary  approach.  However,  it  will  force  no 
"oversimplifications"  upon  you.  You  will  not  have  to  "anal- 
ogize" (in  saying  that  B  is  A  because  B  has  an  ingredient 
in  common  with  A  or  that  B  can  serve  synecdochically  as 
representative  of  A).  You  can  make  all  the  subdistinctions  of 
multiple  motivation  you  want  whereby  you  can  avoid  the 
necessity  of  treating  some  haphazard  news  report  in  the  same 
bin  with  Lear.  But  by  starting  with  "the  sublime  and  the 
ridiculous,"  rather  than  with  "beauty,"  you  place  yourself 
forthwith  into  the  realm  of  the  act,  whereas  "beauty"  turns 
out  to  be  too  inert  in  its  connotations,  leading  us  rather  to 
overstress  the  scene  in  which  the  act  takes  place.  Confronting 
the  poetic  act  in  terms  of  "beauty,"  we  are  disposed  to  com- 
mit one  or  another  of  two  heretical  ovei  emphases:  either  we 
seek  to  locate  beauty  in  the  object,  as  scene,  or  by  dialectical 
overcompensation  we  seek  to  locate  it  in  the  subject,  as 
agent.  Confronting  the  poetic  act  in  terms  of  the  sublime 
and  the  ridiculous,  we  are  disposed  to  think  of  the  issue  in 
terms  of  a  situation  and  a  strategy  for  confronting  or  en- 
compassing that  situation,  a  scene  and  an  act,  with  each  pos- 
sessing its  own  genius,  but  the  two  fields  interwoven. 

The  poet  is,  indeed,  a  "medicine  man."  But  the  situations 
for  which  he  offers  his  stylistic  medicine  may  be  very  real 
ones.  Often,  he  so  takes  the  situation  for  granted  that  his 
poem  is  almost  wholly  devoted  to  the  working  out  of  a 
strategy  for  its  encompassment  (this  may  be  the  state  of 
affairs  that  leads  some  critics  to  understress  the  situational 
ingredient  in  his  work,  treating  the  work  as  a  kind  of  attitude 
without  content).  But  it  is  only  in  so  far  as  his  situation  over- 
laps upon  our  situation,  that  his  strategy  of  encompassment 
is  felt  by  us  to  be  relevant. 
64 


f-       ■     ■  •■ 


L 


ITERARY    FORM 


As  "medicine  man,"  he  deals  with  "poisons."  (Foods, 
drugs,  medicines,  and  poisons  are  all  to  be  stretched  along 
a  single  series  of  gradients,  for  if  you  do  not  think  that  bread 
is  a  poison,  try  eating  a  barrel  of  it,  while  the  whole  theory 
of  homoeopathy,  so  close  to  "homoeopathic  magic,"  is  based 
upon  a  technique  for  transforming  poisons  into  medicines 
by  attenuation  of  the  dose).  The  poet,  in  his  pious  or  tragic 
role,  would  immunize  us  by  stylistically  infecting  us  with 
the  disease.  As  we  move  towards  the  impious  response,  on 
the  other  hand,  we  get  an  "allopathic"  strategy  of  cure.  We 
get  the  recourse  to  "antidote."  The  medical  analogy  may  be 
justified  by  authority,  as  it  has  been  employed  in  similar 
contexts  by  both  a  critic  and  a  poet.  I  refer  to  Frazer's  study 
of  "homoeopathic  magic"  and  to  the  opening  lines  of  Mil- 
ton's preface  to  Samson  Agonistes: 

Tragedy,  as  it  was  anciently  composed,  hath  ever 
been  held  the  gravest,  moralest,  and  most  profitable  of 
all  other  poems;  therefore  said  by  Aristotle  to  be  of 
power,  by  raising  pity  and  fear,  or  terror,  to  purge  the 
mind  of  those  and  such-like  passions — that  is,  to  temper 
and  reduce  them  to  just  measure  with  a  kind  of  delight, 
stirred  up  by  reading  or  seeing  their  passions  well  imi- 
tated. Nor  is  Nature  wanting  in  her  own  effects  to  make 
good  his  assertion;  for  so,  in  physic,  things  of  melan- 
cholic hue  and  quality  are  used  against  melancholy, 
sour  against  sour,  salt  to  remove  salt  humours. 

I  might  terminate  this  aspect  of  the  discussion  by  a  brave 
suggestion.  In  these  utilitarian  days,  pure  science  must  earn 
its  way  by  serving  applied  science.  So  I  shall  try  to  "justify" 
my  theory  by  showing  that  it  might  become  "gainfully  em- 
65 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
ployed."  In  Hollywood,  when  a  new  star  is  found,  the  ex- 
perts in  publicity  are  charged  with  the  duty  of  finding  her 
a  winsome  name.  Over  the  years,  a  happy  choice  may  mean 
a  difference  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  dollars  in  box  office 
receipts.  Here  is  where  my  theory  enters.  I  propose  that  the 
experts  proceed  as  follows: 

I  propose  that  they  select  some  "poisonous"  word — some 
one  of  the  many  repellent  "four-letter  words"  that  are  so- 
cially forbidden,  owing  to  one  or  another  kind  of  unpleas- 
antness they  suggest.  Then  I  would  have  the  experts  experi- 
ment with  slight  transformations  of  this  word,  until  they  had 
produced  a  structure  in  which  the  original  repellent  word 
was  retained  as  a  barely  audible  overtone,  flickering  about  its 
edges.  I  submit  that,  to  an  auditor  who  did  not  know  the 
genesis  of  this  word,  but  who  did  know  and  dislike  the  word 
from  which  it  had  been  derived,  this  new  synthetic  product 
would  be  "exceptionally  beautiful."  13 

ON     METHODOLOGY 

A  critic's  perspective  implicitly  selects  a  set  of  questions 
that  the  critic  considers  to  be  key  questions.  We  usually 
think  of  answers  as  the  primary  pointers  of  direction  in  a 
conceptual  writer's  work;  actually  however  the  point  about 

13  Phonetically,  in  is  closely  related  to  p,  both  being  labials — and  k  is  closely 
related  to  r,  both  being  gutturals  (the  guttural  relationship  being  closer  in  French 
r  than  in  English  r).  But  m  is  smoother  than  p,  and  r  is  smoother  than  k. 
"Moliere,"  by  this  analysis,  is  seen  as  an  acrostic  of  "Poquelin,"  with  the  nasal 
omitted.  Moliere's  beautiful  pseudonym  is  a  revision  of  his  original  surname,  in 
the  direction  of  much  greater  musicality.  "Poquelin,"  to  be  sure,  is  not  an  oath: 
but  it  is  certainly  unpleasant  as  compared  with  its  phonetic  revision — and  the 
quality  of  Moliere's  mind,  with  the  intense  melancholy  underlying  his  comic 
genius,  gives  us  good  ground  to  suspect  that  "Poquelin"  was  identified  with  an 
unliked  aspect  of  himself.  We  should  place  him  in  a  category  of  writers-at-cross- 
purposes  with  Flaubert,  who  flayed  "Bovary"  and  "Bouvard,"  names  surprisingly 
like  acrostics  of  "Flaubert,"  when  we  recalled  that  v  is  but  a  voiced  /. 

66 


LITERARY    FORM 

which  the  differences  in  critical  schools  pivot  is  not  in  an- 
swers, but  in  questions. 

All  questions  are  leading  questions.  For  instance,  sup- 
pose that  you  wanted  to  weaken  a  statesman's  reputation  in 
the  most  "scientific"  manner.  A  very  good  method  would 
be  to  found  some  bureau  for  the  polling  of  public  opinion, 
and  to  send  forth  investigators  armed  with  questions  that 
constantly  harped  upon  the  matter  of  the  man's  integrity. 
They  would  not  have  to  be  "leading  questions"  in  the 
obvious  sense.  They  would  need  no  "weighting"  other  than 
the  weighting  implicit  in  the  choice  of  topic  itself.  The 
man's  integrity,  which  might  otherwise  have  been  taken  for 
granted,  becomes  a  "problem."  Even  those  who  come  to  his 
defense  must,  in  this  very  act,  themselves  help  to  emphasize 
the  element  of  doubtfulness.  A  dubious  name  is  a  name  half 
ill,  and  "He  that  hath  an  ill  name  is  half  hanged." 

Questions  harping  on  the  subject  of  personal  integrity 
would  have  another  "creative"  function.  They  would  auto- 
matically select  the  field  of  controversy — hence,  they  would 
automatically  deflect  the  attention  from  other  possible  fields 
of  controversy.  Questions  might  have  been  asked,  for  in- 
stance, that  bore  wholly  on  the  measures  which  the  states- 
man advocated.  And  the  whole  tenor  of  the  discussion  would 
have  changed  accordingly.  It  is  in  this  sense  that  an  institute 
for  the  polling  of  public  opinion  could  not  avoid  "leading 
questions"  no  matter  how  hard  it  tried  (and  I  doubt  whether 
such  enterprises  usually  try  very  hard).  Every  question  se- 
lects a  field  of  battle,  and  in  this  selection  it  forms  the  nature 
of  the  answers. 

In  this  sense,  also,  we  could  say  that  Marxist  criticism  in 
recent  years  "triumphed"  over  its  most  emphatic  opponents. 

67 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
Even  those  critics  who  had  previously  been  answering  ques- 
tions about  "pure  form"  now  began  answering  questions 
about  "the  relation  between  art  and  society,"  i.  e.,  Marxist 
questions. 

Implicit  in  a  perspective  there  are  two  kinds  of  questions: 
(1)  what  to  look  for,  and  why;  (2)  how,  when,  and  where  to 
look  for  it.  The  first  could  be  called  ontological  questions; 
the  second,  methodological.  A  critic  eager  to  define  his 
position  should  attempt  to  make  his  answers  to  these  ques- 
tions as  explicit  as  possible,  even  at  the  risk  of  appearing  to 
"lay  down  the  law."  After  all,  there  are  "laws"  (or  at  least, 
rules  of  thumb)  implicit  in  the  critic's  perspective — and  the 
critic  should  do  what  he  can  to  specify  them  as  a  way  of  de- 
fining that  perspective.  I  am  particularly  prodded  to  this 
attempt  because  my  procedures  have  been  characterized  as 
"intuitive"  and  "idiosyncratic,"  epithets  that  make  me 
squirm.  For  I  believe  that  a  critic  should  seek  to  develop 
not  only  a  method,  but  a  methodology — and  that  this 
methodology  should  be  formed,  at  every  turn,  by  reference 
to  the  "collective  revelation"  of  accumulated  critical  lore. 

However,  as  a  student  of  strategies,  I  realize  that  there  is  "~ 
no  sure  remedy  for  my  discomfiture.  What  if  one  did  succeed 
in  proving,  for  anyone  concerned,  that  his  method  is  de- 
veloped in  cooperation  with  the  work  of  other  critics,  and 
that  he  can  deduce  from  his  perspective  a  set  of  procedures 
for  analyzing  the  structure  of  a  work  inductively?  An  op- 
ponent would  then  need  but  transubstantiate  his  epithets. 
And  the  charge  that  the  critic  is  "too  intuitive"  or  "idiosyn- 
cratic" in  his  methods  could  be  happily  revised  into  a  charge 
that  he  is  too  "derivative"  and  is  following  an  "overly  me- 
chanical routine."  Our  critical  vocabulary  is  rich  in  such 
resourcefulness. 
G8 


> 


LITERARY    FORM 

So  I  shall  now  assemble  in  one  spot  some  basic  rules  of 
thumb — with  diffidence;  and  not  in  the  forlorn  hope  of 
silencing  anyone,  but  only  in  the  hope  of  defining  a  perspec- 
tive by  stating  the  what's,  how's,  when's,  where's,  and  why's 
that  go  with  it.  In  other  words,  I  am  asking  no  one  to  "obey 
these  rules"  (or  rather,  these  rules  of  thumb).  I  assemble 
them  simply  as  a  convenient  way  of  crystallizing  my  ex- 
position. If  we  wanted  to  know  "what  is  going  on"  in  a 
work  of  art,  in  accordance  with  the  notion  of  "symbolic- 
action,"  how  should  we  proceed?  What  kind  of  "leads" 
would  we  follow?  I  have  touched  upon  this  matter  in  pass- 
ing, but  should  like  now  to  discuss  it  focally. 

First:  We  should  watch  for  the  dramatic  alignment.  What 
is  vs.  what.  As  per  Odets:  violin  vs.  prizefight.  Or  in  Hitler's 
Mein  Kampf,  where  we  found  the  discordant  principle  of 
parliament,  with  its  many  voices  in  dispersion,  placed  in 
dramatic  or  dialectic  opposition  to  the  one  voice  of  Hitler. 
(The  structure  is  described  at  length  in  "The  Rhetoric  of 
Hitler's  'Battle,'  "  The  Southern  Review,  Summer,  1939.) 
To  fill  out  such  a  description,  we  must  note,  at  the  same 
time,  the  sets  of  "equations"  that  reinforce  each  of  the  op- 
posing principles.  I  have  given  a  long  list  of  these  in  the 
Hitler  analysis,  and  have  previously  in  the  present  item  sug- 
gested some  of  the  main  ones  in  the  case  of  Golden  Boy.  We 
discover  these  inductively,  obediently,  by  "statistical"  in- 
spection of  the  specific  work  to  be  analyzed.  We  should  not 
"help  the  author  out"  here.  Thus,  if  we  want  to  say  that 
one  principle  equals  "light,"  and  the  other  equals  "dark- 
ness," we  must  be  able  to  extract  this  interpretation  by  ex- 
plicit quotation  from  the  work  itself.  In  Seaver's  Betiveen 
the  Hammer  and  the  Anvil,  for  instance  (a  novel  inferior  in 
literary  merit  to  his  earlier  The  Company,  but  written  with 

69 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

such  earnestness  and  simplicity  that  it  provides  an  excellent 
example  for  illustrating  basic  ritualistic  processes),  a  char- 
acter who  is  being  "converted"  to  a  new  attitude  appropri- 
ately undergoes  the  change  during  a  ferry  ride  (a  "crossing"), 
while  the  turn  from  "darkness"  to  "light"  is  explicitly  there, 
in  the  imagery  of  the  events,  as  the  boat  on  which  the  change 
of  heart  takes  place  begins  its  journey  by  moving  from  the 
shadows  of  the  buildings  into  full  sunlight. 

We  may,  eventually,  offer  "generalizations  atop  generali- 
zations" whereby  different  modes  of  concrete  imagery  may 
be  classed  together.  That  is,  one  book  may  give  us  "into  the 
night"  imagery;  another  "to  the  bottom  of  the  sea"  imagery; 
another  the  "apoplectic"  imagery  of  Flaubert's  Legende  de 
St.  Julien,  I  'Hospitaller — and  we  may  propose  some  over-all 
category  (such  as  "books  that  take  us  to  the  end  of  the  line," 
or  "books  that  would  seek  Nirvana  by  burning  something 
out")  that  would  justify  us  in  classing  all  these  works  to- 
gether on  the  basis  of  a  common  strategy  despite  differences 
in  concrete  imagery.  But  this  procedure  must  be  judged  on 
its  merits,  when  the  time  comes.  The  first  step,  the  step  we 
are  concerned  with  at  the  moment,  requires  us  to  get  our 
equations  inductively,  by  tracing  down  the  interrelation- 
ships as  revealed  by  the  objective  structure  of  the  book  itself. 

I  think  that  there  are  both  quantitative  and  qualitative 
considerations  involved  here.  Thus,  in  her  Shakespeare's 
Imagery,  Caroline  Spurgeon  has  shown,  by  quantitative  test, 
that  a  certain  image  predominates  in  a  given  work.  Might 
there  not  also  be  the  qualitative  importance  of  beginning, 
middle,  and  end?  TTrat  is:  should  we  not  attach  particular 
significance  to  the  situ^rioTisn5"n^w1rich  the  work  opens  and 
closes,  and  the  events  by  which  the  peripeTypor  reversal  is 
contrived?  Hence,  along  with  the  distinction  between  op^ 
7^ 


LITERARY    FORM 

posing  principles  we  should  note  the  development  from  what 
through  what  to  what.  So  we  place  great  stress  upon  those 
qualitative  points:  the  "laying  of  the  cornerstone,"  the 
"watershed  moment,"  and  the  "valedictory,"  or  "funeral 
wreath." 

On  this  basis,  in  looking  for  the  equations  underlying 
"The  Ancient  Mariner,"  I  should  tentatively  lay  emphasis 
upon  the  fact  that  the  narrative  takes  place  on  the  occasion 
of  a  marriage-feast,  that  the  narrator  throughout  is  deflect- 
ing the  wedding-guest  from  attending  this  ceremony,  and 
that,  at  the  very  end,  the  Mariner  explicitly  states  his  values: 

O  sweeter  than  the  marriage-feast, 
'Tis  sweeter  far  to  me, 
To  walk  together  to  the  kirk 
With  a  goodly  company! — 

And  I  should  expect  to  see  this  strand,  latently  if  not 
patently,  maintained  at  any  intermediary  points  crucial  to 
the  development,  as  with  the  killing  of  the  Albatross  and  the 
blessing  of  the  snakes.  The  Albatross,  we  are  told,  came 
through  the  fog  "As  if  it  had  been  a  Christian  soul,"  and  the 
Sun  that  avenges  the  murder  is  said  to  be  "like  God's  own 
head."  In  "The  Eolian  Harp"  we  are  told  that  Sarah,  the 
poet's  wife,  who  biddeth  the  poet  walk  humbly  with  his 
God,  is  a  "Meek  Daughter  in  the  family  of  Christ."  Sarah 
and  the  Albatross  are  thus  seen  to  be  in  the  same  equational 
cluster.  The  drug,  however,  is  in  a  different  cluster.  As  he 
tells  us  in  his  letters,  it  is  responsible  for  "barbarous  neglect 
of  my  family."  As  for  its  affinity  with  pure  or  metaphysical 
evil,  we  have  that  explicitly  in  his  letters:  "I  used  to  think 
St.  James's  Text:  'He  who  offendeth  in  one  part  of  the  Law, 
offendeth  in  all,'  very  harsh;  but  my  own  sad  experience 

71 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
has  taught  me  it's  aweful,  dreadful  Truth.  What  crime  is 
there  scarcely  which  has  not  been  included  in  or  followed 
from  the  one  guilt  of  taking  opium?"  And  when  he  suffered 
from  its  malign  effects,  we  are  told  in  the  same  letter,  "An 
indefinite  indescribable  Terror  as  with  a  scourge  of  ever 
restless,  ever  coiling  and  uncoiling  serpents,  drove  me  on 
from  behind"  (as  the  Mariner's  ship  was  driven).  Its  benign 
effects,  on  the  other  hand,  are  manic  and  integrative.  When 
under  its  influence,  Coleridge  would  pour  forth  vast  en- 
cyclopaedic projects  that  encompassed  the  whole  of  ex- 
perience. It  had  the  unifying  attribute  of  imagination,  which 
(he  tells  us  in  Table  Talk)  would  have  as  its  excessive  form 
"mania."  While  its  benignity  lasted,  it  gave  the  unitary  effect 
that  Coleridge  celebrates  in  his  communion  with  the  uni- 
verse ("The  Eolian  Harp"),  a  vision  followed  by  his  sur- 
prising apologies  to  Sarah.  And  we  might  introduce  one  last 
correlation:  among  Coleridge's  notes  taken  when  he  was 
planning  the  poem  that  became  "The  Ancient  Mariner," 
there  is  a  note  that  punningly  suggests  a  different  kind  of 
Christian:  "Christian,  the  MUTINEER"  (the  capitalization 
is  Coleridge's).  Taking  all  these  points  together,  do  we  not 
find  good  cause  to  line  up,  as  one  strand  in  the  symbolic 
action  of  the  poem,  a  sequence  from  marriage  problem, 
through  the  murder  of  the  Albatross  as  a  synecdochic  repre- 
sentative of  Sarah,  to  the  "blessing"  of  the  snakes  that  synec- 
dochically  represented  the  drug  and  the  impulsive  pre- 
marital aesthetic  (belonging  in  a  contrary  cluster)  to  an 
explicit  statement  of  preference  for  church,  prayer,  and 
companionship  over  marriage  (with  the  Mariner  returning 
to  shore  under  the  aegis  of  the  praying  Hermit,  and  the 
poem  itself  ending  on  the  prayerful,  moralizing  note  that 
has  annoyed  many  readers  as  a  change  in  quality)? 
72 


LITERARY    FORM 

In  many  cases,  of  course,  I  should  lack  the  citational 
bridges  for  linking  the  imagery  within  a  poem  to  the  poet's 
life  outside  the  poem.  But  in  the  case  of  Coleridge  this  aspect 
of  the  symbolic  act  can  be  explicitly  filled  out  by  the  use  of 
attendant  material,  both  from  biographical  and  from  poetic 
sources. 

Please  get  me  straight:  I  am  not  saying  that  we  need  know 
of  Coleridge's  marital  troubles  and  sufferings  from  drug 
addiction  in  order  to  appreciate  "The  Ancient  Mariner" 
and  other  poems  wherein  the  same  themes  figure.  I  am  say- 
ing that,  in  trying  to  understand  the  psychology  of  the  poetic 
act,  we  may  introduce  such  knowledge,  where  it  is  available, 
to  give  us  material  necessary  for  discussing  the  full  nature 
of  this  act.  Many  of  the  things  that  a  poet's  work  does  for 
him  are  not  things  that  the  same  work  does  for  us  (i.  e.,  there 
is  a  difference  in  act  between  the  poem  as  being-written  and 
the  poem  as  being-read).  Some  of  them  are,  some  of  them  are 
not.  The  critic  may  quite  legitimately  confine  himself  within 
any  rules  of  discussion  he  prefers.  He  may,  if  he  prefers, 
treat  the  poem  structurally  as  though  it  had  not  been  written 
by  a  private  individual  at  all,  but  had  been  made  merely  by 
the  tossing  of  alphabets  into  the  air,  said  alphabets  having 
happened  to  fall  into  a  meaningful  order. 

But  my  position  is  this:  That  if  we  try  to  discover  what 
the  poem  is  doing  for  the  poet,  we  may  discover  a  set  of 
generalizations  as  to  what  poems  do  for  everybody.  With 
these  in  mind,  we  have  cues  for  analyzing  the  sort  of  event- 
fulness  that  the  poem  contains.  And  in  analyzing  this  event- 
fulness,  we  shall  make  basic  discoveries  about  the  structure 
of  the  work  itself. 

There  is  an  infinite  number  of  things  that  can  be  said 
about  a  poem's  structure.  You  can,  for  instance,  chart  the 
73 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
periodicity  of  the  recurrence  of  the  definite  article.  You  can 
contrast  the  versification  with  that  of  any  other  poem  known 
to  man.  You  can  compare  its  hero  with  the  hero  of  some 
work  three  centuries  ago,  etc.  What  I  am  contending  is  that 
the  mode  of  analysis  I  would  advocate  will  give  you  ample 
insight  into  the  purely  structural  features  of  a  work,  but 
that  the  kind  of  observations  you  will  make  about  structure 
will  deal  with  the  fundamentals  of  structure,  and  will  deal 
with  them  in  relation  to  one  another,  as  against  the  infinite 
number  of  possible  disrelated  objective  notations  that  can  be 
made. 

I  shall  even  go  further:  I  shall  grant  to  our  current  neo- 
Aristotelian  school  (by  far  the  most  admirable  and  exacting 
group  a  critic  can  possibly  select  as  his  opponent)  that  the 
focus  of  critical  analysis  must  be  upon  the  structure  of  the 
given  work  itself.  Unless  this  requirement  is  fulfilled,  and 
amply,  the  critic  has  slighted  his  primary  obligation.  It  is 
my  contention,  however,  that  the  proposed  method  of  anal- 
ysis is  equally  relevant,  whether  you  would  introduce  cor- 
relations from  outside  the  given  poetic  integer  or  confine 
yourself  to  the  charting  of  correlations  within  the  integer. 
And  I  contend  that  the  kind  of  observation  about  structure 
is  more  relevant  when  you  approach  the  work  as  the  func- 
tioning of  a  structure  (quite  as  you  would  make  more  rele- 
vant statements  about  the  distribution  of  men  and  postures 
on  a  football  field  if  you  inspected  this  distribution  from  the 
standpoint  of  tactics  for  the  attainment  of  the  game's  pur- 
poses than  if  you  did  not  know  of  the  game's  purposes). 
And  I  contend  that  some  such  description  of  the  "symbolic 
act"  as  I  am  here  proposing  is  best  adapted  for  the  disclosure 
of  a  poem's  function. 

The  two  main  symbols  for  the  charting  of  structural  rela- 
74 


LITERARY    FORM 

tionships  would  be  the  sign  for  "equals"  and  some  such  sign 

as  the  arrow  ("from to ").  Thus,  in  a  jotting  like 

"the  sunny  mist,  the  luminous  gloom  of  Plato,"  I  should 
have  "sunny  mist"  =  "luminous  gloom"  =  (i.  e.,  is  in  the 
same  cluster  with)  "Plato."  If  these  equations  are  found  to 
be  reinforced  at  many  other  points  in  Coleridge's  work,  I 
should  begin  to  take  this  "trial"  equation  seriously  (testing 
it,  for  instance,  by  inquiring  how  it  might  serve  in  discussing 
the  turn  from  Sun  to  Moon  in  "The  Ancient  Mariner,"  and 
inquiring  how  our  application  here  might  fit  with  his  equa- 
tions for  Sun  and  Moon  elsewhere,  as  in  his  religious  tracts). 
Since  literature  is  a  progressive  form,  the  matter  of  "equa- 
tions" always  verges  on  the  matter  of  the  arrow.  That  is: 
what  we  have  is  "sunny  mist"  to  "luminous  gloom"  to 
"Plato."  "Equations,"  we  might  say,  cause  us  to  collapse 
into  a  single  chord  a  series  of  events  that,  by  the  nature  of 
the  literary  medium,  must  be  strung  out  in  arpeggio.  (In 
music  we  may  strike  do,  mi,  sol,  do  simultaneously,  chord- 
ally,  or  sequentially,  in  arpeggio).  But  although  there  are 
many  borderline  cases-where  we  might  employ  either  the 
sign  of  equation  or  the  sign  of  sequence  (as  a  reference  to 
murder,  followed  by  a  reference  to  night,  might  be  designed 
either  as  "murder  =  night"  or  "murder  ->  night"),,  for 
charting  a  narrative  sequence,  the  most  convenient  design 
is  obviously  "event  A  -»  event  B  — »  event  C,"  etc.  The 
"chordal  collapsing"  of  a  writer's  total  work  obviously  re- 
quires the  sign  of  equality,  as  "Sun  (in  one  place)  =  parental 
duty  (in  another  place)  =  religion  (in  another),"  etc. 

The  arrow  is  obviously  required  for  noting  an  ambiguous 
dialectical  operation  whereby  one  event  calls  forth  an  event, 
not  similar  in  quality,  but  compensatory.  If  we  met  a  se- 
quence, for  instance,  "murder  to  night  to  a  vision  of  peace," 
75 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
here  "murder"  and  "night"  might  be  consistent  in  quality 
("murder  =  night")  while  the  third  event  might  be  of 
opposite,  or  compensatory  quality  (which  would  require 
"night  -»  peace").  Thus,  pain  and  weeping  are  consistent  in 
quality;  pain  and  medicine  are  compensatory,  the  one  being 
involved  "dialectically"  in  the  other.  Again,  of  course,  we 
come  upon  a  borderline  area  here:  there  are  occasions,  for 
instance,  where  the  weeping  is  itself  a  kind  of  medicine,  as 
there  are  occasions  when  "the  cure  takes  on  the  quality  of 
the  disease."  Particularly  in  the  case  of  a  poet  like  Coleridge, 
whose  favorite  proverb  was  "Extremes  meet,"  we  often  have 
trouble  in  drawing  a  sharp  line  between  the  consistent  and 
the  compensatory. 

The  confusion  might  be  approached  in  another  way:  A 
total  drama,  as  the  agon,  is  analytically  subdivided  into 
competing  principles,  of  protagonist  and  antagonist.  Their 
competition  sums  up  to  one  over-all  cooperative  act  (as  the 
role  of  Iago  and  Othello  "dovetail"  with  each  other  to  com- 
pose the  total  progression  of  the  tragedy).  Also,  each  of  the 
"principles"  possesses  satellites,  or  adjuncts,  some  strongly 
identified  with  one  or  another  of  the  principles  (as  Antony 
was  unequivocably  the  adjunct  of  Caesar);  whereas  other 
characters  shade  off  into  a  general  overlapping  background, 
as  with  the  indeterminate  shifting  role  of  the  mob  which 
Brutus  and  Antony  alternately  swayed.  Such  a  set  of  "medi- 
ating" characters  is  necessary,  as  a  common  ground  of  per- 
sons through  which  the  cooperation  of  the  competing  prin- 
ciples can  take  place.  Hence,  no  matter  which  of  the  three 
the  dramatist  begins  with  (agon,  protagonist,  or  antagonist) 
he  cannot  give  us  a  full  drama  unless  he  imaginatively  en- 
compasses the  other  two.  (The  simpler  forms  of  "prole- 
tarian" literature  suffer  from  the  fact  that  the  poet,  be- 

76 


LITERARY    FORM 

ginning  with  a  strong  attitude  towards  protagonist  or 
antagonist,  features  this  attitude  throughout,  hence  does  not 
bring  his  other  two  terms  to  imaginative  maturity.) 

But  there  is  obviously  a  philosophic  sense  in  which  agon, 
protagonist,  and  antagonist  can  each  be  said  to  exist  im- 
plicitly in  the  others.  Hence,  if  we  analyze  a  formally  mature 
work  closely  enough,  we  are  continually  coming  upon  those 
points  where  the  consistent  and  compensatory  merge.  If,  in 
the  case  of  Othello,  we  take  sexual  jealousy  as  the  subject 
or  idiom,  we  find  it  analytically  (dialectically,  dramatically) 
subdivided  into  opposed  components:  the  "whispered  at" 
and  the  "whisperer  to."  But  "opposed  components"  is  obvi- 
ously an  incongruity,  even  an  oxymoron.  And  we  isolate  for 
study  either  their  opposition  or  their  composition.  We  are 
back,  in  secular  guise,  to  the  old  problem  of  the  logical  triad, 
which  may  be  italicized  two  ways:  either  as  three  in  one,  or 
as  three  in  one.  Where  we  would  stress  the  compensatory 
relationship  in  equations,  we  could  use  "vs."  instead  of 
"equals";  and  for  designating  a  compensatory  sequence,  we 
could  use  the  arrow  with  a  slanting  line  (/)  drawn  across 
it. 

It  should  be  understandable  by  now  why  we  consider 
synecdoche  to  be  the  basic  process  of  representation,  as  ap- 
proached from  the  standpoint  of  "equations"  or  "clusters 
of  what  goes  with  what."  To  say  that  one  can  substitute  part 
for  whole,  whole  for  part,  container  for  the  thing  contained, 
thing  contained  for  the  container,  cause  for  effect,  or  effect  for 
cause,  is  simply  to  say  that  both  members  of  these  pairs  belong 
in  the  same  associational  cluster.  The  Hegelian  formula  that 
"everything  is  its  other"  can  be  applied  here  in  two  ways: 
We  have  the  polar  kind  of  otherness,  as  a  certain  kind  of 

77 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
villainy  is  implicit  in  a  certain  kind  of  heroism,  and  vice 
versa.  And  we  have  synecdochic  otherness,  as  the  beloved's 
house  may  represent  the  beloved  (or,  as  the  ship  on  which 
the  Mariner  voyages  represents  the  Mariner's  own  mental 
and  bodily  symptoms).  Polar  otherness  unites  things  that 
are  opposite  to  one  another;  synecdochic  otherness  unites 
things  that  are  simply  different  from  one  another.  The  be- 
loved's house  is  not  opposite  to  the  beloved,  but  merely  dif- 
ferent from  the  beloved.  Under  dialectical  pressures,  however 
(as  in  political  alignments)  any  difference  may  come  to  be  felt 
as  an  antithesis,  as  in  Marxist  theory  the  differences  between 
the  "bourgeois"  and  the  "proletarian"  become  dramatized  as 
an  antithesis  (a  stylistic  strategy  that  often  throws  the  more 
naive  kind  of  Marxist  into  confusion  when  he  comes  upon 
areas  of  overlap  between  his  dramatically  antithesized  prin- 
ciples). 

Returning  to  the  main  line  of  our  subject  (considering 
leads  that  give  us  a  "way  in"  to  the  discovery  of  the  motiva- 
tion, or  situation,  of  the  poetic  strategy):  we  should  watch 
for  "critical  points"  within  the  work,  as  well  as  at  begin- 
nings and  endings.  There  are  often  "watershed  moments," 
changes  of  slope,  where  some  new  quality  enters.  Sometimes 
these  are  obvious,  even  so  obvious  as  to  threaten  the  in- 
tegrity of  the  work.  There  is  such  a  moment  in  Murder  in 
the  Cathedral,  where  the  medium  shifts  from  verse  to  prose 
(with  critics  divided  as  to  whether  the  change  is  successful 
or  a  fault).  In  Louis  Aragon's  Bells  of  Basle,  such  a  break 
occurs  where  Clara  Zetkin  enters — and  here  the  change  of 
personality  is  so  great  (as  the  author  shifts  from  his  "aes- 
thete" role,  with  its  philandering  attitude  towards  women, 
to  a  "political"  role  wherein  the  "woman  as  mother"  is 
stressed)  critics  seem  generally  agreed  that  the  form  of  the 
78 


LITERARY    FORM 

work  is  impaired,  in  too  greatly  violating  the  kind  of  ex- 
pectancies the  poet  had  built  up  in  his  readers.  Such  a 
moment  is  the  scene  in  "The  Ancient  Mariner,"  where  the 
loathsome  snakes  become  beautiful  and  blessed,  an  event 
that  is  acceptable  to  most  critics  but  that  greatly  annoyed 
Irving  Babbitt. 

Above  all,  any  weakness  in  motivation  is  revelatory  in 
this  connection.  For  instance,  though  the  Albatross  was,  at 
Wordsworth's  suggestion,  introduced  into  "The  Ancient 
Mariner"  in  order  that  the  Mariner's  slaying  of  it  might 
motivate  the  Mariner's  sense  of  guilt,  what  in  turn  motivates 
the  slaying  of  the  Albatross?  And  though  the  sinking  of  the 
ship  motivates  the  Mariner's  transference  to  the  Pilot's  boat, 
what  motivates  the  sinking  of  the  ship?  And  though  the 
presence  of  a  Pilot's  boat  motivates  the  presence  of  a  Pilot's 
boy,  what  motivates  the  drastic  fate  that  suddenly  befell  the 
boy,  who  was  not  introduced  into  the  poem  until  this  last 
fatal  moment  (as  Juvenal  says  that  the  censorious  Cato  en- 
tered the  theater  simply  that  he  might  be  able  to  leave  it)? 

However,  it  may  be  objected,  such  "critical  points"  seem 
most  observable  where  the  poet  falters.  Is  there  some  equiva- 
lent "way  in"  to  material  that  is  unquestionably  coordi- 
nated? I  think  so.  For  instance,  in  Robert  Penn  Warren's 
Night  Rider,  the  fourth  chapter  ends  thus:  "He  reached  out 
and  laid  his  hand  paternally  on  Mr.  Munn's  shoulder.  Then, 
as  though  embarrassed  at  betraying  his  own  feelings,  he  re- 
moved it."  Here,  at  a  point  where  the  novelist  is  obviously 
not  at  all  concerned  with  the  suggesting  of  .religious  paral- 
lels, we  come  upon  the  possibility  that  a  kind  of  "ordina- 
tion" is  taking  place,  by  "the  laying  on  of  hands."  Maybe 
so,  maybe  not.  In  any  event,  it  seems  to  me  a  good  "hunch," 
worth  putting  down  for  possible  testing  in  the  light  of  sub- 

79 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

sequent  developments,  and  when  "all  returns  are  in"  as  to 

the  work's  equational  structure. 

I  think  that,  as  it  turns  out,  this  particular  "lead"  can  be 
corroborated.  Examining  the  various  equations  implicit  in 
the  work,  we  find  something  like  this:  The  paternal  figure 
who  laid  his  hands  upon  young  Munn's  shoulder  was  a  Sena- 
tor, Senator  Tolliver.  He  was  prominent  in  organizing  a 
group  of  tobacco  planters  to  counteract  the  low  prices  they 
were  getting  for  their  crops  from  the  big  corporations.  It 
was  a  public  organization,  representative,  as  the  book  ex- 
plicitly states,  of  a  "day"  self.  Later,  in  order  to  enforce  the 
requirements  of  this  "day"  organization,  a  secret,  or  "night" 
organization  is  formed.  It  is  a  kind  of  sinister  holding  com- 
pany, managed  by  a  restricted  group  of  insiders.  Tolliver 
is  the  personalization  of  the  "day"  organization,  and  hands 
down  his  role  to  Munn.  When  the  "night"  organization  is 
formed,  Tolliver  drops  out,  leaving  Munn,  who  enters  the 
"night"  organization,  symbolically  fatherless.  At  the  end  of 
the  story,  after  the  acts  of  the  "night"  organization  have 
involved  Munn  in  criminality,  there  is  a  scene  in  which 
Munn  returns  to  shoot  this  vessel  of  his  "day"  or  public  self, 
and  where  Tolliver  again  explicitly  states  his  close  relation- 
ship to  Munn.  Munn  departs  without  killing  him,  thus  leav- 
ing the  vessel  of  his  "day"  self  living;  but  a  few  pages  farther 
on,  the  "night"  self  commits  suicide  while  being  pursued 
by  representatives  of  the  law.  The  closing  sentences  of  the 
book  are: 

Lying  on  the  ground,  he  fired  once  more,  almost  spas- 
modically, without  concern  for  direction.  He  tried  to 
pull  the  trigger  again,  but  could  not.  Lying  there,  while 
the  solid  ground  lurched  and  heaved  beneath  him  in  a 

80 


LITERARY    FORM 

long  swell,  he  drowsily  heard  the  voices  down  the  slope 
emptily,  like  the  voices  of  boys  at  a  game  in  the  dark. 

So,  all  told,  Tolliver's  gesture,  strategically  placed  at  the 
end  of  a  chapter,  is  a  materialization  of  this  relationship 
between  himself  and  Munn.  He  is  the  paternal  represen- 
tative of  Munn's  "day"  self — and  the  events  of  Munn's 
"night"  self  are  enacted  in  disobedience  to  him.14 

As  another  example  of  an  incident  where  a  "critical 
point"  leading  us  into  a  glimpse  of  a  dramatic  organization 
involves  no  impairment  of  formal  integrity,  we  might  con- 
sider The  Grapes  of  Wrath.  Tom  Joad,  who  is  returning 
from  prison  with  a  land  turtle,  meets  the  ex-preacher,  Casy 
— after  which,  he  releases  the  turtle,  whereat  Casy  says  he 
is  like  the  turtle  (Tom  had  picked  it  up,  on  his  way  home 
from  prison).  I  thus  noted  tentatively,  for  possible  develop- 
ment, that  the  turtle  might  serve  as  a  mediating  material 
object  for  tying  together  Tom,  Casy,  and  the  plot,  a  kind 
of  externalizing  vessel,  or  "symbol"  of  such  a  function. 
Maybe,  as  Steinbeck  had  entitled  an  earlier  work  Of  Mice 
and  Men,  this  novel  might,  from  our  point  of  view,  have 
been  entitled  Of  Land  Turtles  and  Men. 

The  whole  thing  works  out  quite  neatly.  The  turtle's 
(explicitly  stated)  aimless  wandering,  over  the  dry  soil,  "fore- 

14  It  has  been  called  to  my  attention  that  Munn  does  not  commit  suicide  in 
the  literal  sense — and  that,  for  the  English  edition  of  Night  Rider,  the  novelist 
revised  the  ending  so  as  to  remove  the  possibility  of  such  misinterpretation.  The 
distinction  does  not  greatly  matter  for  present  purposes,  however.  For  though 
the  ending  is  not  literally  suicidal,  it  is  clearly  suicidal  in  quality.  Munn's  shot, 
though  not  fired  against  himself,  is  sent  aimlessly  into  the  void,  after  which  he 
languishes,  sinking  from  the  role  of  agent  into  a  role  of  complete  passivity.  The 
state  is  not  directly  a  slaying  of  volition,  but  invites  the  lapse  of  volition.  As  motive 
(i.  e.,  that-which-sets-in-motion)  it  is  neither  an  action  (as  of  a  driver)  nor  a  passion 
(as  of  one  driven)  but  is  rather  the  suspension  or  transcendence  of  motion,  an 
internalizing  of  flight,  as  with  those  organisms  that,  when  attacked,  protect  them- 
selves by  sheer  immobility.  It  probably  comes  closest  to  that  abeyance  of  motive 
which  psychologists  call  the  "catatonic  state." 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

shadows"  (or  implicitly  prophesies)  the  drought-pervaded 
trek  with  which  Tom  and  Casy  will  be  identified.  Its  wan- 
dering across  the  parched  earth  is  "representative"  of  the 
migration  in  a  stream  of  traffic  on  the  dry  highways.  It  con- 
tains implicitly,  in  "chordial  collapse,"  a  destiny  that  the 
narrative  will  unfold  explicitly,  in  "arpeggio."  We  have 
Tom's  homecoming,  after  prison,  with  this  turtle  in  his 
pocket  (i.  e.,  "bearing  the  future  plot  with  him,"  as  a  Bel- 
lerophontic  letter);  Tom's  release  of  the  turtle  (which  is 
proclaimed  by  Casy  to  be  another  Casy — thereby  interweav- 
ing Casy  and  Tom);  when  Casy  dies  (with  a  variant  of 
Christ's  "Forgive  them,  for  they  know  not  what  they  do" 
as  his  last  words),  Tom  establishes  the  consubstantiality  of 
his  cause  with  Casy's,  first  by  avenging  Casy,  next  by  voicing 
his  same  philosophy  of  new  political  awareness  ("God,  I'm 
talking  like  Casy"),  and  lastly  by  being  a  fugitive  from  the 
same  vessels  of  authority  that  had  killed  Casy. 

Relating  these  events  with  the  question  of  "from  what  to 
what,"  we  find  the  whole  work  shaped  into  a  strategy  for  the 
redemption  of  crime.  The  "pilgrim's  progress"  of  Tom  is 
from  the  role  of  a  man  who  had  left  prison  after  slaying  a 
man  in  a  drunken  brawl  to  that  of  a  man  who  is  a  fugitive 
from  the  law  for  having  slain  a  man  in  a  "just"  cause,  since 
he  had  slain  the  slayer  of  Casy,  the  charismatic  and  sacrifi- 
cial vessel  of  emancipation.  It  is  a  progress  from  an  inferior 
kind  of  crime  to  a  "transcendent"  kind  of  crime  (even  ortho- 
dox criminologists  usually  putting  political  crime  in  a  dif- 
ferent category  from  kinds  more  private  in  their  motivation 
— a  reservation  made  necessary  by  the  fact  that  the  "crimi- 
nal" philosophy  of  one  era  so  often  becomes  the  "normal" 
philosophy  of  a  later  era).  Perhaps  the  most  effective  con- 
densation of  this  philosophy,  still  "criminal,"  is  in  the  sen- 


LITERARY    FORM 

tence:  "For  here  'I  lost  my  land'  is  changed;  a  cell  is  split 
and  from  its  splitting  grows  the  thing  you  hate — 'We  lost 
our  land.'  "  The  symbolic  crime  is  thus  expiated  by  sociali- 
zation, because  it  is  socialization. 

We  might  consider  the  legend  of  Christopher,  the  "Christ- 
bearer,"  from  this  point  of  view.  Christopher,  carrying  the 
stranger  across  the  stream — and  as  he  nears  the  other  shore 
feeling  his  burden  grow  heavier  and  heavier,  since  it  was 
Christ  he  was  bearing,  hence  all  the  burdens  of  the  world. 
The  sense  of  burden  is  here  a  socialized  one,  the  guilt  hav- 
ing been  purified,  in  that  it  is  the  burden  of  bearing  the 
Cross-bearer,  a  burden  that  is  an  honor. 

Also,  since  works  embody  an  agon,  we  may  be  admonished 
to  look  for  some  underlying  imagery  (or  groupings  of  im- 
agery) through  which  the  agonistic  trial  takes  place,  such 
as:  ice,  fire,  rot,  labyrinth,  maze,  hell,  abyss,  mountains 
and  valleys,  exile,  migration,  lostness,  submergence,  silence, 
sometimes  with  their  antidote,  sometimes  simply  "going  to 
the  end  of  the  line."  It  is  such  over-all  terms,  I  repeat, 
that  make  even  the  most  concrete  of  imageries  "symbolic" 
or  "representative"  of  one  class  or  another. 

But  we  should  always,  in  thus  classifying,  remember  to 
introduce  matters  of  differentiae  when  particularizing  our 
description  of  a  poet's  strategy.  Consider  the  many  signifi- 
cant variants  of  pilgrimage,  for  instance:  we  may  get  a 
journey  to  the  Holy  Grail,  the  migration  of  a  Crusade,  a 
quest  for  the  golden  fleece,  the  touristic  kind  of  pilgrimage 
that  is  in  Chaucer  or  with  the  international  traveler  of 
Henry  James,  the  vindictive  hunt  of  Moby  Dick,  the  vaga- 
bondage of  Gorki,  or  some  spiritualized  journey  of  develop- 
ment, as  with  Wilhelm  Meister,  apprentice  and  journeyman, 
with  the  ideal  end  contained  implicitly  or  "prophetically" 

83 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

in  his  surname.  It  is  obvious  that  such  distinctions  also  lead 

us  quickly  back  into  ingredients  of  social  texture  operating 

in  the  situation  behind  the  writer's  strategy,  as  when  we 

contrast  Henry  James'  kind  of  homelessness  with  that  of 

Gorki.15 

I  have  spoken  of  Robert  Penn  Warren's  Night  Rider. 
And  I  should  now  like  to  round  out  this  section  on  method- 
ology by  a  protracted  illustrative  consideration  of  the  sym- 
bolic acts  exemplified  in  this  exceptionally  fluent  and  in- 
telligent novel  (a  work  that  was  well  received  by  the  Guild, 
but  does  not  seem  to  have  got  the  general  recognition  it 
deserves). 

First,  it  seems  to  me  an  unusually  beautiful  novel  written 
in  what  I  would  call  the  "to  the  end  of  the  line"  mode.  At 
one  point,  for  instance,  the  process  of  maturing  is  meta- 
phorically described  as  the  peeling  away  of  the  successive 
layers  of  an  onion,  which  would  perfectly  suggest  such  de- 
velopment by  introversion,  by  inturning  towards  a  non- 
existent core,  as  I  would  consider  typical  of  the  "to  the  end 
of  the  line"  kind  of  plot.  Carrying  out  the  search  for  equa- 
tions, we  find  the  following  structure: 

The  "night"  self  has  attained  symbolic  self-destruction, 
as  a  kind  of  will-lessness.  Senator  Tolliver,  representative  of 
the  "day"  self,  in  the  role  of  father  has  been  left  alive.  Is 
he,  then,  a  "vessel  of  futurity"?  Examining  the  work  further, 
for  equational  filling-out,  we  find  him  explicitly  described, 

is  The  imagery  of  the  trek  in  The  Grapes  of  Wrath  has  an  interesting  effect, 
from  the  functional  point  of  view.  Thus,  I  heard  a  critic  say  that  the  book  "had 
movement"  up  to  the  point  where  the  Joads  reach  California,  but  from  that  time 
on,  it  wandered,  "lacked  movement."  It  occurred  to  me  that  the  observation 
applied  in  the  most  literal  sense:  until  they  reached  California,  the  Joads  were 
moving  in  a  definite  direction;  after  they  arrive,  their  destination  becomes  as 
vague  as  the  land  turtle's. 

u 


LITERARY    FORM 

with  Munn  concurring,  as  "talking  to  people  all  his  life; 
crowds,  never  being  anything  except  when  his  voice  was 
talking  to  crowds;  if  he  had  anything  in  him,  any  life,  suck- 
ing it  out  of  crowds,  talking.  Crowds  and  women.  Never 
being  anything  except  when  he  thought  somebody  else 
thought  he  was  something.  Just — ."  The  day  self  is  thus  a 
kind  of  social  shell — so,  if  it  is  left,  as  a  "vessel  of  futurity," 
it  is  presented  under  very  bad  auspices. 

There  is  another  possibility.  Munn  has  broken  with  his 
wife,  but  she  bears  him  a  child  after  leaving  him.  However, 
the  identity  of  this  child  also  is  presented  under  bad  aus- 
pices. Munn  does  not  even  know  its  name.  Furthermore,  in 
his  adolescence  Munn  had  lived  with  an  eccentric,  scatter- 
brained aunt  in  Philadelphia,  to  whom  he  read  the  scattered 
news.  Also,  when  living  there,  he  had  gone  to  a  museum, 
where  he  saw  foetuses  pickled  in  jars.  And  now,  when  he 
thinks  of  his  child,  this  period  of  his  life  and  the  pickled 
foetuses  recur  to  him. 

There  is  one  more  possibility.  Towards  the  end  of  the 
novel,  there  is  a  superb  chapter  of  recapitulation,  where 
Munn  has  gone  into  hiding  with  a  certain  Proudfit,  and  this 
man  tells  him  the  story  of  his  life.  It  is  a  story  in  the  Phoenix- 
out-of-the-ashes  category:  of  a  man  who  burns  cruelty  out 
of  himself  by  an  excess  of  cruelty;  purification  by  excess, 
the  "Blake  strategy."  After  the  excesses  he  falls  ill,  and  in 
his  fever  he  dreams  of  coming  down  a  hill,  to  green,  and 
shade,  and  coolness,  and  water,  and  a  little  church,  with  a 
girl  sitting  by  it.  It  signalizes  a  change;  he  recovers,  returns 
home,  where  he  finds  the  spot  he  had  dreamed  of,  and  mar- 
ries the  girl  that  had  been  sitting  under  the  tree  by  the 
church. 

This  episode  is  engrossingly  written;  good  in  itself,  it 
85 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

also  serves  an  excellent  functional  purpose.  For,  in  a  new 
individuation,  it  recapitulates  the  pattern  of  the  novel  itself, 
up  to  this  point,  yet  supplies  a  very  effective  pause,  prepara- 
tory to  the  final  drive  of  the  plot.  Now,  since  Munn  has  gone 
to  hide  with  this  man,  I  take  it  that  Munn  is  "under  the 
aegis"  of  Proudfit.  As  the  astrologers  would  say,  Munn  is 
now  "in  the  sign  of"  Proudfit.  Hence,  Proudfit's  story  is 
Munn's  story.  Munn,  however,  leaves  Proudfit,  and  returns 
to  complete  his  destruction.  So  even  this,  as  a  "vessel  of 
futurity,"  is  not  good-omened,  in  the  light  of  the  plot's  fur- 
ther development.  And  whereas  Proudfit,  in  coming  down 
the  hill  into  the  valley,  had  been  on  his  way  to  cure,  Munn 
dies  as  he  hears  his  pursuers  "down  the  slope  calling  emp- 
tily." The  parallelism  ends  in  a  contrast.  Proudfit's  final 
state  of  rest,  we  might  say,  but  serves  as  technical  contrast 
to  heighten  our  appreciation  of  Munn's  failure. 

There  is  "futurity,"  however,  in  a  less  literal  sense:  in 
the  intelligence  and  suavity  of  the  workmanship  itself.  How 
much  weight  we  are  to  place  upon  this  factor  alone  (i.  e.,  a 
kind  of  "spirituality  without  embodiment  in  dogma")  I  am 
not  prepared  to  say.  What  we  can  say  is  that  the  book  is 
fascinating,  and  that  we  find  here,  as  in  much  of  the  best  in 
modern  writing,  an  artistic  scrupulousness  that  leads  to  a 
sinister  kind  of  beauty,  where  a  hack  could  be  more  "whole- 
some" in  his  concocting  of  poetic  recipes  by  a  mechanical 
insertion  of  an  "upturning"  theme. 

In  any  event,  we  do  note  an  ironic  development  when  a 
critic  of  Marxist  cast  examines  the  work  of  the  agrarians. 
For  these  men  (a)  frequently  write  in  the  "to  the  end  of  the 
line"  mode,  and  (b)  seek  to  recommend  their  region  by  the 
use  of  "local  color."  Whereupon  the  Marxist,  rudely  jam- 
ming these  two  tendencies  together,  can  say:  "In  associating 
86 


LITERARY    FORM 

his  region  with  so  sinister  a  kind  of  plot,  does  not  the  region- 
alist  thereby  indict  his  region?"  I  am  not  trying  to  start  a 
quarrel,  either  between  camps  or  within  one  camp.  I  am 
interested  in  this  matter  because,  although  I  incline  to  the 
Marxist  interpretation  here,  I  feel  that  there  may  be  some 
important  factor  in  the  issue  that  is  being  overlooked.10 

In  Warren's  case,  I  feel  that  the  connotations  surrounding 
Tolliver,  as  the  vessel  of  the  social  or  political  self,  are  not 
the  ones  that  need  surround  this  role,  if  it  is  linked  with  a 
sufficiently  rational  and  well-developed  political  philosophy. 
Yet  I  am  also  aware  that  our  role  in  a  group  activity  is  not 
a  perfect  fit  with  our  role  as  an  individual;  that  salvation, 
no  matter  how  collectively  oriented,  is  still  an  individual 
matter;  and  that  poems,  as  rituals  of  redemption,  are  a  kind 
of  "private  mass"  (made  public  in  so  far  as  others  can  par- 

16  The  Grapes  of  Wrath  opens  itself  to  a  corresponding  embarrassment,  as  was 
revealed  by  Heywood  Broun's  objections  in  The  New  Republic,  and  the  many 
letters  by  wrathful  liberals  that  Broun's  remarks  called  forth.  The  book  is  in  the 
"emancipation"  line,  and  there  is  no  principle  of  control  natural  to  the  "emanci- 
pation" line.  Any  attempt  to  halt  a  trend  is  "reactionary."  Hence,  if  the  public 
has  become  used  to  a  certain  amount  of  obscenity  this  year,  "progress"  requires 
the  use  of  still  more  obscenity  next  year.  Obviously,  you  must  call  a  halt  some- 
where— but  no  matter  at  what  point  you  call  it,  you  are  proposing  a  "reaction." 
Now,  I  do  not  think  that  The  Grapes  of  Wrath  contains  much  that  could  by  any 
reader  familiar  with  modern  styles  be  called  "obscene."  However,  as  Botkin  has 
pointed  out,  its  dialogue  is  written  in  the  "hard-boiled"  style  rather  than  a  "folk" 
style.  It  is  not  realistic,  but  naturalistic.  The  general  result  is  an  encumbrance 
from  the  propagandist  point  of  view,  since  the  "good"  cause  is  identified  with  a 
suspect  trend  that  must  itself  continually  be  defended.  The  political  cause  has 
to  be  defended;  and  if  in  the  course  of  your  defense  you  identify  it  with  an  aesthetic 
cause  that  equally  requires  defense,  you  are  as  a  propagandist  simply  taking  on 
two  burdens  in  place  of  one.  The  ideal  act  of  propaganda  consists  in  imaginatively 
identifying  your  cause  with  values  that  are  unquestioned.  The  point  may  be 
grasped  when  we  contrast  The  Grapes  of  Wrath  with  Elizabeth  Madox  Roberts' 
The  Time  of  Man,  where  characters  in  a  situation  very  similar  to  that  of  The 
Grapes  of  Wrath  are  identified  with  speech  and  acts  more  realistic  than  natural- 
istic (though  the  realism  is  too  "quaint"  and  local  for  broader  aspects  of  the 
contemporary  scene).  And  something  of  the  embarrassment  implicit  in  Steinbeck's 
mode  may  be  grasped  when  we  recall  an  earlier  period  where  the  roles  were 
reversed,  as  with  the  writers  of  the  Restoration,  whose  cult  of  obscenity  was  itself 
an  aspect  of  "reaction."  As  it  turned  out,  this  "entangling  alliance"  helped  to 
organize  the  resistance  to  the  political  stand  they  aesthetically  represented. 

87 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

ticipate  in  them),  communion  services  developed  perhaps 

by  "private  enterprise"  in  keeping  with  the  similar  economic 

modes. 

We  should  also  note  a  "serial"  quality  in  the  "to  the  end 
of  the  line"  mode — a  kind  of  "withinness  of  withinness,"  as 
the  "night"  company  within  the  "day"  company  (parallel- 
ing the  similar  development,  in  the  economic  sphere,  from 
operating  companies  to  holding  companies,  controlled  by 
"insiders").  One  may  get  the  pattern  in  Coleridge's  line, 
"Snow-drop  on  a  tuft  of  snow."  And  in  Moby  Dick  there 
is  an  especially  "efficient"  passage  of  this  sort,  prophetically 
announcing  the  quality  of  Ishmael's  voyage:  after  walking 
through  "blocks  of  blackness,"  he  enters  a  door  where  he 
stumbles  over  an  ash  box;  going  on,  he  finds  that  he  is  in 
a  Negro  church,  and  "the  preacher's  text  was  about  the 
blackness  of  darkness." 

Borrowing  a  hint  from  Borgese,  we  might  suggest  a  dis- 
tinction between  "revolution"  and  "involution,"  with  books 
in  the  "to  the  end  of  the  line"  mode  exemplifying  the  serial, 
or  "involute"  method.  I  am  embarrassed,  however,  in  that 
Borgese  applies  the  term  to  characterize  "the  fascist  involu- 
tion," in  contrast  with  its  "revolutionary"  pretenses.  And  I 
do  not  want  to  be  in  the  position  of  gratuitously  calling  any 
man  a  fascist,  and  least  of  all  a  writer  for  whom  I  have  great 
respect.  Why  not  handle  the  matter  this  way:  It  is  the  fascist 
involution  which  Warren  has  embodied  and  ritualistically 
slain.  So  much  has  been  symbolically  removed,  hence  "pro- 
phetically" removed.  The  social,  public  self  has  been  ritu- 
alistically spared — and  this  vessel,  Senator  Tolliver,  is  a 
parliamentary  self.  This  self,  however,  is  left  with  an  in- 
complete identity — and  quite  accurately  so,  since  in  our 
present  structure  of  conflicts  the  parliamentary  role  is  in- 
88 


LITERARY    FORM 

deed  vague  and  confused,  usually  being  related  to  no  such 
fundamental  concepts  of  social  purpose  as  might  success- 
fully merge  individual  and  public  integrity. 

"form"    and   "content" 

I  do  not  contend  that  the  mode  of  analysis  here  proposed 
is  automatically  free  of  subjective  interpretations.  I  do  con- 
tend that  an  undiscussable  dictionary  is  avoided  (as  were 
one  to  have  a  set  of  absolute  meanings  for  every  kind  of 
symbol,  and  to  simply  "translate"  a  book  from  its  exoteric 
idiom  into  the  corresponding  esoteric  one).  To  know  what 
"shoe,  or  house,  or  bridge"  means,  you  don't  begin  with 
a  "symbolist  dictionary"  already  written  in  advance.  You 
must,  by  inductive  inspection  of  a  given  work,  discover  the 
particular  contexts  in  which  the  shoe,  house,  or  bridge  oc- 
curs. You  cannot,  in  advance,  know  in  what  equational 
structure  it  will  have  membership. 

By  inspection  of  the  work,  you  propose  your  description 
of  this  equational  structure.  Your  propositions  are  open  to 
discussion,  as  you  offer  your  evidence  for  them  and  show 
how  much  of  the  plot's  development  your  description  would 
account  for.  "Closer  approximations"  are  possible,  account- 
ing for  more.  The  method,  in  brief,  can  be  built  upon,  in 
contrast  with  essentializino  strategies  of  motivation  that  all 
begin  anew. 

The  general  approach  to  the  poem  might  be  called  "prag- 
matic" in  this  sense:  It  assumes  that  a  poem's  structure  is  to 
be  described  most  accurately  by  thinking  always  of  the 
poem's  function.  It  assumes  that  the  poem  is  designed  to 
"do  something"  for  the  poet  and  his  readers,  and  that  we 
can  make  the  most  relevant  observations  about  its  design 
by  considering  the  poem  as  the  embodiment  of  this  act. 
89 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

In  the  poet,  we  might  say,  the  poetizing  existed  as  a  physi- 
ological function.  The  poem  is  its  corresponding  anatomic 
structure.  And  the  reader,  in  participating  in  the  poem, 
breathes  into  this  anatomic  structure  a  new  physiological 
vitality  that  resembles,  though  with  a  difference,  the  act  of 
its  maker,  the  resemblance  being  in  the  overlap  between 
writer's  and  reader's  situation,  the  difference  being  in  the 
fact  that  these  two  situations  are  far  from  identical. 

The  justification  for  this  pragmatic  view  of  the  poem 
resides  in  the  kind  of  observation  that  a  functional  perspec- 
tive leads  us  to  select,  from  among  an  infinite  number  of 
possible  observations  about  poetic  structure. 

Such  an  approach  through  the  emphasis  upon  the  act 
promptly  integrates  considerations  of  "form"  and  "content." 
I  recall,  for  instance,  talking  with  the  painter  Henry  Billings 
about  a  series  of  paintings  he  was  doing.  It  was  a  series  of 
"Arrests":  called  "Arrest  No.  i,"  "Arrest  No.  2,"  etc.  I  was 
enthusiastic  about  the  idea,  for  I  felt  that  here  the  artist 
had  "struck  a  vein."  Everyone,  I  felt,  has  shared  in  the 
"There  but  for  the  grace  of  God  go  I"  attitude  towards 
the  criminal.  And  when  an  artist  hits  upon  some  such  basic 
situation,  he  can  reindividuate  it  in  many  different  con- 
crete embodiments,  with  a  strong  predisposing  factor  of 
appeal  already  there  before  he  begins.  Similarly,  one  strong 
factor  of  appeal  in  Steinbeck's  novel  is  in  the  underlying 
situation  that  he  exploits:  a  huntedness,  that  may  be  rean- 
nounced  from  chapter  to  chapter,  with  our  own  financial 
uneasiness  always  there  to  help  us  "meet  it  halfway."  17 

!7  In  fact,  paradoxically,  the  strong  factor  of  appeal  in  this  situation  per  se 
may  in  the  case  of  the  Steinbeck  book  have  been  responsible  for  its  not  being  a 
still  better  book.  Had  the  situation  been  less  alluring  in  itself,  he  could  not  have 
relied  so  greatly  upon  it  for  his  appeal,  and  might  have  done  more,  to  win  us,  by 

90 


LITERARY    FORM 

However,  though  I  had  such  thoughts  in  mind,  when 
thinking  of  a  "vein,"  I  discovered  that  Billings  was  taking 
my  remarks  in  a  totally  different  way,  purely  from  the  stand- 
point of  his  technical  problems  as  a  painter.  The  "oppor- 
tunity for  exploitation"  he  saw  in  the  theme  arose  from  the 
fact  that  an  arrest  spontaneously  organized  all  spectators 
about  a  point  of  focus.  Whenever  an  arrest  occurs,  all  on- 
lookers "take  a  position"  with  reference  to  it,  quite  as  do 
the  victim  and  the  men  that  seize  him. 

I  was  thinking  of  the  matter  from  the  standpoint  of  pure 
"content."  I  saw  the  possibility,  for  instance,  of  even  work- 
ing out  a  "class  structure"  of  arrests — for,  when  looking  at 
his  picture  of  a  miserable  sneak  thief  caught,  I  remembered 
seeing  a  photograph  of  Richard  Whitney  on  his  way  to 
prison  after  conviction;  and  I  had  been  struck  by  his  bear- 
ing, as  he  walked  boldly  and  with  dignity,  while  it  was 
the  officers  accompanying  him  that  seemed  shrunken  and 
apologetic.  There  was  something  assertive  about  his  con- 
viction, as  though  he  had  willed  it.  While  I  was  thinking 
thus  of  "content,"  Billings  had  been  thinking  of  the  same 
subject  from  the  standpoint  of  "form."  18 


the  development  of  character.  As  it  is,  most  of  the  characters  derive  their  role, 
which  is  to  say  their  personality,  purely  from  their  relationship  to  the  basic 
situation.  They  can  but  "be";  they  cannot  do.  They  are  flotsam  on  a  stream  of 
traffic,  the  highways  of  "America  on  Wheels."  Thus,  it  is  generally  agreed  that 
"Ma"  is  the  most  fully  developed  character;  and  it  is  no  accident  in  this  respect 
that  she  is  also  the  character  who  makes  up  her  mind.  Casy  comes  next;  he  has 
a  certain  vocal  articulacy.  But  all  the  rest  are  hardly  even  distinct  as  "types,"  as 
with  the  usual  Broadway  drama.  Grampa's  troubles  with  the  buttons  on  his  pants 
are  "characteristic"  in  the  sense  in  which  some  farce  character  that  always  sneezed 
or  stuttered  or  stumbled  could  be  said  to  have  characteristics.  Even  Tom,  who  is 
as  important  as  the  turtle  in  integrating  the  plot,  is  vague  as  a  person. 

is  I  recall  another  painter,  engaged  in  doing  the  portrait  of  a  family,  whose 
predicament  throws  light  upon  the  same  issue.  He  was  having  great  difficulty, 
he  complained,  in  finding  some  act  about  which  the  family  group  could  be 
organized.  For  the  various  members  of  the  family  seemed  to  do  nothing  together 
as  a  family.  In  fact,  since  one  or  another  of  them  usually  had  his  meals  in  his 
room,  they  did  not,  as  a  family,  even  eat  together. 

91 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

Yet,  as  seen  from  the  standpoint  of  symbolic  action,  we 
do  not  have  to  choose  between  the  artist's  mode  of  considera- 
tion and  my  own.  He  was  concerned  with  a  unifying  act, 
and  so  was  I.  I  am  merely  suggesting  that,  when  you  begin 
to  consider  the  situations  behind  the  tactics  of  expression, 
you  will  find  tactics  that  organize  a  work  technically  because 
they  organize  it  emotionally.  The  two  aspects,  we  might  say 
Spinozistically,  are  but  modes  of  the  same  substance.  Hence, 
if  you  look  for  a  man's  burden,  you  will  find  the  principle 
that  reveals  the  structure  of  his  unburdening;  or,  in  attenu- 
ated form,  if  you  look  for  his  problem,  you  will  find  the  lead 
that  explains  the  structure  of  his  solution.  His  answer  gets 
its  form  by  relation  to  the  questions  he  is  answering. 

I  should  thus  take  evidences  of  guilt,  with  corresponding 
modes  of  purification,  as  the  major  cue  leading  us  into  the 
tactics  of  poetic  socialization.  And  as  regards  the  tactics  of 
work  written  in  our  particular  social  structure,  with  the 
long  and  arduous  period  of  adolescent  celibacy  (or  socially 
distrusted  flouting  of  it)  that  goes  with  our  particular  social 
structure,  I  should  expect  to  see  a  sexual  problem  assuming 
a  major  role  in  our  typical  expiatory  strategies.  A  major 
role,  but  by  no  means  an  exclusive  role:  it  is  merely  one 
strong  ingredient  in  the  total  recipe — and  the  critic  must 
always  be  prepared  to  go  beyond  it,  noting  the  ways  in 
which  it  becomes  interwoven  with  a  much  wider  texture 
of  motives. 

Perhaps  as  the  best  way  of  indicating  just  how  the  notion 
of  the  "burden"  or  "problem"  underlying  the  tactics  of  a 
symbolic  act  would  be  charted,  I  should  offer  an  explicit 
example  of  "proportional"  motivation,  using  the  case  of 
Coleridge,  and  summing  up  the  exegesis  scattered  through 
the  foregoing  pages. 
92 


LITERARY    FORM 

The  motivation  here  could  be  divided  for  convenience 
into  five  main  strands:  the  aesthetic  problem,  the  marital 
problem,  the  political  problem,  the  drug  problem,  the  meta- 
physical problem.  To  consider  them  briefly,  in  this  order: 

(1)  The  aesthetic  problem.  Illustrated  par  excellence  in 
"The  Eolian  Harp."  The  merger  of  subject  and  object,  ex- 
emplified in  his  vision  of  perfect  communion  between  the 
individual  and  the  universe.  The  unity  of  the  player,  the 
playing,  and  the  being-played-upon.  The  poet  here  exem- 
plifies a  thoroughly  "impulsive"  aesthetic:  the  giving-forth 
is  one  with  a  being-given.  Necessity  and  will  are  one.  Yet 
the  aesthetic  is  presented  in  terms  of  "temptation" — and  the 
poem  closes  with  apologies  to  his  wife,  as  the  poet  promises 
to  reform,  which  is  surprising  indeed,  in  view  of  the  fact 
that  the  poet  has  celebrated  a  state  of  ideal  exaltation.  The 
progression  is:  from  "My  pensive  Sara!  Thy  soft  cheek  re- 
clined/ Thus  on  mine  arm  .  .  ."to 

And  that  simplest  Lute, 
Placed  lengthwise  in  the  clasping  casement,  hark! 
How  by  the  desultory  breeze  caressed, 
Like  some  coy  maid  half  yielding  to  her  lover, 
It  pours  such  sweet  upbraiding  as  must  needs 
Tempt  to  repeat  the  wrongs!   .  .  . 

to  the  vision  of  communion, 

O!  the  one  Life  within  us  and  abroad, 
Which  meets  all  motion  and  becomes  its  soul, 
A  light  in  sound,  a  sound-like  power  in  light, 
Rhythm  in  all  thought,  and  joyance  everywhere — 

to  changing  of  scene  (from  evening  twilight  to  noon), 
93 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

And  thus,  my  Love!  as  on  the  midway  slope 
Of  yonder  hill  I  stretch  my  limbs  at  noon, 

to  restatement  of  communion, 

And  what  if  all  of  animated  nature 
Be  but  organic  Harps  diversely  framed, 
That  tremble  into  thought,  as  o'er  them  sweeps 
Plastic  and  vast,  one  intellectual  breeze, 
At  once  the  Soul  of  each,  and  God  of  All? 

to  the  apology, 

But  thy  more  serious  eye  a  mild  reproof 
Darts,  O  beloved  Woman!  nor  such  thoughts 
Dim  and  unhallowed  dost  thou  not  reject 
And  biddest  me  walk  humbly  with  my  God. 
Meek  Daughter  in  the  family  of  Christ! 
Well  hast  thou  said  and  holily  dispraised 
These  shapings  of  the  unregen'rate  mind;   .  .  . 

This  leads  us  into 

(2)  The  marital  problem.  Already,  we  can  begin  to  draw 
upon  "imagistic  bridging."  We  note  that  the  poet's  apologies 
to  the  wife,  for  instance,  are  offered  under  the  aegis  of  noon. 
We  have  the  deflection  from  the  marriage-feast  in  "The 
Ancient  Mariner,"  and  the  record  of  punishments  inflicted 
upon  the  Mariner  at  high  noon.  We  also  discover,  from 
references  elsewhere,  that  Sun  equals  religion  and  parental 
duty.  This  leads  us  back  into  "The  Eolian  Harp"  for  further 
corroboration,  in  that  the  poet's  apologies  to  his  wife  are 
explicitly  stated  to  arise  from  his  feeling  that  his  exalted 
vision  was  un-Christian,  and  that  she  represents  his  Chris- 
94 


LITERARY    FORM 

tian  duties.  We  note  a  similar  function  of  noon,  as  related 
to  marriage,  elsewhere  in  his  works  (notably  in  other  ballads 
written  at  the  same  time).  Such  would  be  observable,  from 
the  poetic  material  alone;  we  also  have,  as  I  have  said,  plenty 
of  biographical  material  bearing  upon  the  marital  problem. 
But  to  illustrate  the  way  in  which  imagistic  interrelation- 
ships are  traced,  I  might  say  that,  as  soon  as  we  center  upon 
one  image,  such  as  the  noon,  we  find  other  images  repeatedly 
clustering  about  it.  For  instance,  we  find  that  the  Sun  in 
"The  Ancient  Mariner"  breeds  rot.  At  the  end  we  find  the 
Hermit  (under  whose  aegis  the  Mariner  is  absolved)  praying 
on  a  seat  of  moss  covering  a  rotted  old  oak  stump.  With 
this  new  baggage  added,  we  go  back  and  find  elsewhere  an 
ill-fated  marriage  procession  (in  "The  Three  Graves")  ad- 
vancing over  a  mossy  track.  We  find  the  hermit's  prayer- 
above-moss-hiding-rot  backed  by  the  course  of  "The  Ancient 
Mariner"  itself,  with  the  preference  for  a  religiosity -without- 
marriage  explicitly  stated,  while  the  poem  ends  on  a  ser- 
monizing note  that  has  with  many  readers  been  felt  as  a 
faulty  change  in  quality.  I  am  not  trying  here  to  establish 
the  various  interrelationships  convincingly  (that  would  re- 
quire much  quotation,  and  I  plan  to  do  this  at  length  in  a 
monograph  on  "The  Particular  Strategy  of  Samuel  Taylor 
Coleridge"  on  which  I  am  now  engaged).  I  wish  simply  to 
indicate  the  way  in  which  the  tracking  down  of  interrela- 
tionships should  proceed.  As  the  Hermit  praying  by  the  oak 
stump  figures  in  "The  Ancient  Mariner,"  for  instance,  so 
we  find  that  Christabel  is  a  Hermitess  praying  by  the  oak, 
which  would  "tie  in"  that  poem  with  the  other.  Or  the 
role  played  by  the  fascinating  eye  in  various  poems  of  Cole- 
ridge would  have  to  be  tracked  down,  with  relation  to  the 
natural  and  narrative  imagery  surrounding  it.  For,  as  Lane 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
Cooper  has  pointed  out,  not  only  do  persons  in  Coleridge's 
poem  have  this  glittering  magnetic  eye,  but  we  find  it  in  the 
Sun  and  in  serpents  (whereat  we  may  recall  the  snakes  that 
thrive  in  the  rot  of  the  Sun). 

(3)  Political  problem.  By  now  we  have  enough  established 
to  note  how  various  ingredients  of  motivation  interweave. 
In  his  years  just  prior  to  marriage,  for  instance,  Coleridge 
was  much  exalted  by  his  "Pantisocracy"  project,  a  Utopian 
plan  for  a  communistic  colony  in  America.  His  notion  was 
that  in  this  colony,  given  an  adequate  property  structure, 
virtue  would  be  inevitable  (which  moves  us  back  into  the 
impulsive  aesthetic  of  "The  Eolian  Harp"  and  into  the  im- 
pulsive blessing  of  the  snakes  in  "The  Ancient  Mariner"). 
He  was  engineered  into  marriage  because  it  was  agreed  that 
each  of  the  colonists  should  be  married.  The  project  fell 
through  soon  after  his  marriage,  so  that  the  focal  reason  for 
his  marrying  Sarah  at  all  was  removed.  His  disappointment 
with  the  collapse  of  this  project  "was  extreme.  Moving  back 
again  into  the  aesthetic  problem,  Pantisocracy  perfectly  ex- 
emplified his  ideal  of  imaginative  unification;  and  we  find 
him  in  later  life,  having  turned  from  libertarian  to  Tory, 
working  out  this  project  in  a  Tory  revision,  now  by  tran- 
scendentally  conceiving  the  structure  of  contemporary  Brit- 
ish society  from  such  an  integrative  point  of  view  (by  which 
the  imperfect  conditions  of  historical  actuality  become  tran- 
substantiated, in  terms  of  the  principles  or  ideals  they  were 
said  to  embody). 

(4)  The  drug  problem.  By  charting  the  imagery  in  his 
poems  with  relation  to  the  imagery  he  employs  in  his  letters 
when  describing  his  drug,  we  can  disclose  the  ways  in  which 
"The  Ancient  Mariner"  is  a  ritual  for  the  redemption  of 
his  drug.  We  find  the  dramatic  transubstantiation  of  the 

96 


LITERARY    FORM 

drug,  effected  by  the  alchemic  change  that  takes  place  when 
the  snakes  are  transformed  from  malign  to  benign  creatures. 
Here  the  snakes  are  found  to  be  synecdochic  representatives 
of  the  drug  (as  part  of  the  same  "psychic  economy,"  as  re- 
vealed by  the  imagistic  charting  of  equations).  We  then  find 
the  role  of  the  drug  played  in  "Christabel,"  "Kubla  Khan," 
Remorse,  "Ode  to  the  Departing  Year."  We  can  note  the 
gradual  change  from  the  benign,  "honeymoon  stage"  of  ad- 
diction to  the  malign,  "let-down"  stage,  depicted  in  "Dejec- 
tion" and  "The  Pains  of  Sleep,"  a  change  that  can  be  traced 
quite  neatly  through  the  differing  qualities  of  sound  said 
to  be  given  forth  by  the  harp,  or  lute,  in  various  poems  writ- 
ten along  this  graded  series.  I  think  that  one  can  account 
for  a  great  many  important  features  in  the  form  of  Cole- 
ridge's poems  by  noting  their  tactical  function  with  refer- 
ence to  the  drug.  In  "The  Ancient  Mariner,"  for  instance, 
we  get  a  change  from  benign  to  malign.  In  Remorse  the 
benign  and  malign  principles  are  dramatically  dissociated, 
they  compete,  and  the  benign  triumphs.  In  "Kubla  Khan" 
(written  automatically,  when  the  favorable  aspects  of  the 
drug  were  in  the  ascendant)  we  find  almost  wholly  the 
"manic"  stage,  with  the  "dialectical  opposite"  but  flicker- 
ing about  the  edges,  and  the  barest  hint  of  the  serpentine 
observable,  perhaps  in  the  "mazy  motion"  of  the  river,  or 
in  the  suggestion  of  Medusa  locks  in  the  "floating  hair" 
that  made  the  poet  cry  "Beware!  Beware!"  (In  an  earlier 
poem,  "Religious  Musings,"  there  is  a  "pontificating"  line 
useful  for  our  purposes:  "Bidding  her  serpent  hair  in  mazy 
surge.  .  .  .")  In  "  Christabel,"  unfinished,  we  find  the  two 
aspects  suspended  at  the  moment  of  indecision,  poised  hesi- 
tantly at  the  indeterminate  "watershed  moment,"  the  con- 
substantiality  of  both  the  good  and  the  bad  effects  of  the 

97 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
drug  being  expressed  by  the  tenuous  interchanging  of  role, 
as  the  pious  Christabel  at  times  takes  on  the  traits  of  the 
ominous  Geraldine  (on  the  occasions  of  her  snakelike  hiss- 
ing), while  the  good  Bard  Bracy  dreams  of  the  relation  be- 
tween them  as  that  of  dove  and  serpent,  with  the  serpent 
entwined  about  the  dove's  neck,  swelling  each  time  the  dove 
swelled.  (Of  all  poems,  "Christabel"  is  the  one  that  would 
have  the  best  grounds  for  being  left  unfinished.  For  it  deals 
precisely  with  that  state  of  indeterminacy  wherein  two  con- 
flicting principles  are  exactly  balanced.  No  ending  would 
be  possible  without  violating  the  present  structure  of  the 
poem's  motivation.)  I  think  it  can  even  be  shown  that  Cole- 
ridge's "Ode  to  the  Departing  Year,"  explicitly  dealing  with 
a  political  prophecy,  takes  on  resonance  by  drawing  upon 
imagery  related  to  misgivings  about  the  drug,  and  so  is 
prophecy  on  two  levels,  ostensibly  about  political  trends, 
implicitly  about  the  course  of  internal  psychological  events 
that  culminate  in  "Dejection."  19  We  may  tie  up  the  drug 
problem  with  the  aesthetic,  by  noting  that,  in  its  euphoric 
stages,  it  provides  the  same  kind  of  impulsive  oneness  that 
the  aesthetic  of  "The  Eolian  Harp"  proclaims.  Also,  in  his 
letters,  Coleridge  explicitly  presents  it  as  a  treachery  to  his 
wife.  Its  interweaving  with  his  famous  distinction  between 
imagination  and  fancy  is  to  be  disclosed  in  his  suggestion 
that  the  extreme  of  imagination  would  be  mania  and  the 
extreme  of  fancy  would  be  delirium,  which  are  precisely  the 
two  terms  for  distinguishing  between  the  effects  of  the  drug 

19  Yon  could  state  it  this  way:  The  poet  would  convey  a  sense  of  political  fore- 
boding. To  do  so  effectively,  he  draws  upon  his  own  deepest  experiences  with  the 
sense  of  foreboding.  Prominent  among  such  experiences,  are  his  forebodings  en- 
gendered by  the  nature  of  his  drug.  Hence,  in  prophesying  about  trends  without, 
he  prophesies  about  trends  within. 

98 


LITERARY    FORM 

in  its  euphoric  stage  and  the  stage  of  "falling  abroad"  (his 
term)  that  goes  with  the  withdrawal  symptoms. 

(5)  The  metaphysical  problem.  Coleridge  has  called  po- 
etry "a  dim  analogue  of  creation."  In  human  activity,  how- 
ever, this  process  of  creation  involves  not  merely  a  making, 
but  a  remaking.  Consider,  for  instance,  the  problem  of  an- 
cestral substance.  Coleridge,  in  his  cosmogony  of  good  and 
evil  (in  "Religious  Musings"),  gives  us  a  lineage  that  draws 
good  out  of  evil.  Hence,  by  the  "like  father  like  son"  for- 
mula of  causal  ancestry,  good  threatens  to  become  consub- 
stantial  with  evil,  as  its  lineal  descendant.  Hence,  the  need 
of  transubstantiation,  of  transcendence,  of  a  radical  change 
in  quality. 

In  keeping  with  our  chord-arpeggio  distinction,  the  meta- 
physical problem  could  be  stated  thus:  In  the  arpeggio  of 
biological,  or  temporal,  growth,  good  does  come  of  evil 
(as  we  improve  ourselves  by  revising  our  excesses,  the  ex- 
cesses thus  being  a  necessary  agent  in  the  drama,  or  dialectic, 
of  improvement:  they  are  the  "villain"  who  "competitively 
cooperates"  as  "criminal  Christ"  in  the  process  of  redemp- 
tion). But  when  you  collapse  the  arpeggio  of  development 
by  the  nontemporal,  nonhistorical  forms  of  logic,  you  get 
simultaneous  "polarity,"  which  adds  up  to  good  and  evil 
as  consubstantial.  Now  if  one  introduces  into  a  chord  a  note 
alien  to  the  perfect  harmony,  the  result  is  a  discord.  But 
if  you  stretch  out  this  same  chord  into  an  arpeggio  having 
the  same  components,  the  discordant  ingredient  you  have 
introduced  may  become  but  a  "passing  note."  "Transcend- 
ence" is  the  solving  of  the  logical  problem  by  stretching  it 
out  into  a  narrative  arpeggio,  whereby  a  conflicting  element 
can  be  introduced  as  a  "passing  note,"  hence  not  felt  as 
99 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERA  R  Y  FOR  M 
"discord."  A  logic  is  "flat,"  simultaneous,  "chordal";  ideally, 
it  is  all  done  before  you  begin.20  Thus,  Hegel's  "dialectic 
of  history"  attempted  the  union  of  contradictory  aims,  in 
trying  to  make  the  passing  note  of  an  arpeggio  fit  as  con- 
cord in  a  simultaneity.  A  logic  being  ideally  all  done  before 
you  begin,  anti-Hegelians  get  their  opportunity  to  object 
that  his  logic  of  development,  if  true,  would  make  develop- 
ment impossible.  Thesis,  antithesis,  and  synthesis  would  all 
exist  simultaneously  and  in  equal  force.  But  by  stretching 
them  out  into  a  temporal  arpeggio,  he  can  depict  the  thesis 
as  prevailing  in  greater  percentage  at  one  time,  the  antithesis 
at  another,  and  the  synthesis  as  an  act  of  transcendence  at 
still  another.21 

This  is  no  place  for  me  to  offer  all  the  material  evidence 

20  Think  of  a  work  so  dualistic  in  nature  as  to  deserve  the  title,  "Yes — and  No." 
One  might,  putting  "yes"  and  "no"  together,  into  a  simultaneity,  collapse  them 
into  the  title,  "Maybe."  Now,  suppose  that  one  had  started  with  "Maybe,"  which 
is  not  very  dramatic,  and  which  he  would  expand  into  a  narrative  or  dramatic 
arpeggio.  We  could  imagine  a  division  into  two  slopes,  the  first  emphatically 
asserting  "Yes,"  whereupon,  after  a  transubstantiating  peripety,  the  second  slope 
could  just  as  emphatically  assert  "No."  Thus,  though  this  total  form,  as  collapsed 
into  a  "simultaneity,"  still  gives  you  the  quality  of  "Maybe,"  as  drawn  out  it 
gives  you  a  transcendence,  from  quality  "Yes"  to  quality  "No." 

-i  You  might  phrase  this  in  another  way:  A  "logic"  of  history  would  be  a  set 
of  universal  statements  about  history.  And  these  statements  would  be  at  such  a 
"high  level  of  generalization"  that  they  would  apply  to  all  historical  development. 
In  short,  the  "laws"  of  movement  cannot  themselves  move,  if  they  are  correctly 
stated.  The  "laws"  of  movement  are  a  kind  of  "unmoved  mover."  Hence,  in  so 
far  as  a  "logic"  of  movement  was  correct,  you  would  get  not  movement,  but  the 
motionless.  And  "generalizations  about  movement"  is  but  a  contemporary  styliza- 
tion  of  "laws  of  movement."  (This  observation  would  suggest  that  the  function 
of  unmoved  move  is  ingrained  in  the  very  nature  of  language;  and  that  John 
Dewey's  program,  as  in  The  Quest  for  Certainly,  for  removing  it  by  a  verbal 
philosophy  would  be  a  contradiction  in  terms.) 

The  point  is  worth  noting  since  it  has  bearing  upon  the  disputes  as  to  whether 
"human  nature  can  change."  If  your  discussion  is  on  a  low  level  of  generalization, 
human  nature  can  constantly  change.  For  instance,  people  in  some  places  wear 
rings  in  their  noses  and  in  other  places  don't.  But  if  your  discussion  is  on  a  high 
level  of  generalization,  human  nature  can't  change.  A  savage  acts  one  way,  for 
instance;  a  child  another;  a  priest  another;  a  doctor  another;  a  mechanic  another. 
But  if  I  say  "people  must  act,"  I  have  made  a  universal  statement  about  people  in 
history — and  with  regard  to  this  statement  "human  nature  can't  change." 

Similarly  with  the  altercations  about  capitalist  enterprise.  If  you  say,  on  a  high 

lOO 


LITERARY    FORM 

with  which  I  should  try  to  fill  out  Coleridge's  five  problems. 
I  offer  them  simply  to  indicate  how  one  might,  by  the  chart- 
ing of  equations,  avoid  reduction  to  one  "cause."  Thus,  even 
if  one  were  to  begin  his  analysis  by  isolating  an  explicit 
sexual  burden  (such  as  the  marital  problem  or  the  possibility 
that  the  unitary  aesthetic,  which  proclaimed  a  completeness 
of  identity  with  the  wife  omitted,  might  thereby  reveal  a 
kinship  with  adolescent  patterns,  a  mental  economy  formed 
prior  to  the  inclusion  of  the  wife) — the  chart  of  interrela- 
tionships, as  ultimately  developed,  would  by  no  means  vow 
one  to  some  such  simple  picture  of  the  author  as  writing 
works  "caused"  by  this  specific  sexual  problem. 

One  would  not  have  to  consider  the  matter  of  "causation" 
at  all.  The  main  point  is  to  note  what  the  poem's  equational 
structure  is.  This  is  a  statement  about  its  form.  But  to  guide 
our  observations  about  the  form  itself,  we  seek  to  discover 
the  functions  which  the  structure  serves.  This  takes  us  into 
a  discussion  of  purpose,  strategy,  the  symbolic  act.  When 
one  notes,  for  instance,  that  the  Pilot's  boy  in  "The  Ancient 
Mariner"  acts  as  the  vessel  that  takes  upon  itself  the  most 
malign  features  of  a  cure  effected  under  the  aegis  of  moon- 
light (i.  e.,  the  worst  features  of  the  lunacy  affecting  the 
"greybeard  loon"),  one  discerns  his  formal  function  in  the 
drama — and,  going  further  back,  we  may  discern  the  formal 
function,  as  foreshadowing,  of  the  "silly"  buckets  that  are 
filled  when  the  cure  first  begins  to  take  effect.  (A  remarkably 


level  of  generalization,  that  "people  must  forever  compete  with  one  another,"  I 
believe  you  have  made  a  sound  universal  statement  about  mankind,  that  will 
apply  in  all  historical  periods,  and  so  "prove  men  incapable  of  change."  But  if 
you  would  select  a  less  comprehensive  level  of  generalization,  you  have  plenty  of 
possible  changes.  People  may  compete  in  religious  piety,  in  ritual  dancing,  in 
philosophy,  in  business  enterprise,  even  in  a  kind  of  "competitive  conformity." 
At  this  level  of  generalization,  people  can  change  enormously,  as  per  the  vast 
difference  between  the  things  the  Westerner  and  the  Polynesian  boast  about. 

lOl 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

happy  word,  as  all  readers  must  feel,  and  one  certainly 
worthy  of  a  gloss  inquiring  into  its  synecdochic  functioning, 
its  implications,  its  role  as  a  representative  of  more  than 
it  explicitly  says.) 

I  have  elsewhere  called  this  approach  to  art  "sociological," 
in  that  it  can  usefully  employ  coordinates  bearing  upon 
social  acts  in  general.  It  is  not  sociological  in  the  sense  that 
one  treats  a  book  as  a  kind  of  unmethodical  report  on  a 
given  subject-matter,  as  Sinclair  Lewis'  novels  might  be 
sociologically  treated  as  making  the  same  kind  of  report 
about  society  (though  in  haphazard,  intuitional  ways)  as  the 
Lynds  make  in  their  systematic  studies  of  Middletown.  We 
are  by  no  means  confined  to  a  stress  upon  "content"  in  this 
sense.  At  every  point,  the  content  is  functional — hence, 
statements  about  a  poem's  "subject,"  as  we  conceive  it,  will 
be  also  statements  about  the  poem's  "form."  22 

22  The  same  point  of  view  would  apply  to  the  analysis  of  the  structure  in  the 
strategies  of  theology  or  philosophy.  A  speculative  thinker  is  not  "frank"  (when 
he  is  "frank")  through  some  cult  of  "disinterested  curiosity."  He  is  frank  in  order 
that,  by  bringing  himself  to  admit  the  real  nature  of  obstacles  and  resistances,  he 
may  seek  to  construct  a  chart  of  meanings  that  will  help  himself  and  others 
adequately  to  encompass  these  obstacles  and  resistances.  In  the  course  of  such 
work,  he  may  often  seem  to  wander  far  afield.  This  is  due  partly  to  the  fact  that 
each  tactic  of  assertion  may  lead  to  a  problem,  the  tactic  of  its  solution  may  lead 
to  a  further  problem,  etc.  And  when  these  problems  become  traditional,  men  of 
lesser  enterprise,  forgetting  that  these  various  tactics  originally  arose  out  of  the 
business  of  symbolic  vengeance,  or  consolation,  or  encouragement,  or  protection 
(including  the  protection  of  special  prerogatives)  devote  themselves  mainly  to 
the  accumulated  internalities  of  tactics,  picking  up  a  special  philosophic  jargon 
(with  its  corresponding  set  of  issues  local  to  the  guild)  simply  as  insignia  of 
membership  in  a  lodge.  And  this  symbolic  enrollment  is  sufficient  to  satisfy  their 
sparse  needs  of  "socialization,"  especially  when  it  nets  them  emoluments,  and  so 
brings  the  necessary  economic  ingredient  into  their  strategy  as  a  social  act. 

Indeed,  if  there  is  a  point  whereat  rationality  degenerates  into  hubris,  it  must 
be  the  point  whereat  "pure"  speculation  becomes  too  great  (a  change  in  the  pro- 
portions or  quantity  of  ingredients  that  gives  rise  to  a  new  quality).  Curiosity 
properly  makes  its  discoveries  in  the  course  of  aiming  at  benefit  (as  logical  devices 
are  best  discovered  not  by  a  cult  of  such,  but  in  the  course  of  making  an  assertion). 
Curiosity  becomes  malign  when  the  kind  of  benefit  sought,  or  the  kind  of  asser- 
tion made,  is  too  restricted  from  the  standpoint  of  social  necessities.  Or  it  becomes 
malign  when  the  incentive  of  power  outweighs  the  incentive  of  betterment  (this 
being  another  way  of  saying  that  knowledge  is  properly  sought  as  a  way  to  cure, 

102 


LITERARY    FORM 
RITUAL     DRAMA     AS     "HUB" 

The  general  perspective  that  is  interwoven  with  our  meth- 
odology of  analysis  might  be  summarily  characterized  as 
a  theory  of  drama.  We  propose  to  take  ritual  drama  as  the 
Ur-form,  the  "hub,"  with  all  other  aspects  of  human  action 
treated  as  spokes  radiating  from  this  hub.  That  is,  the  social 
sphere  is  considered  in  terms  of  situations  and  acts,  in  con- 
trast with  the  physical  sphere,  which  is  considered  in  mecha- 
nistic terms,  idealized  as  a  flat  cause-and-effect  or  stimulus- 
and-response  relationship.  Ritual  drama  is  considered  as  the 
culminating  form,  from  this  point  of  view,  and  any  other 
form  is  to  be  considered  as  the  "efficient"  overstressing  of 
one  or  another  of  the  ingredients  found  in  ritual  drama. 
An  essayistic  treatise  of  scientific  cast,  for  instance,  would 
be  viewed  as  a  kind  of  Hamletic  soliloquy,  its  rhythm  slowed 
down  to  a  snail's  pace,  or  perhaps  to  an  irregular  jog,  and 
the  dramatic  situation  of  which  it  is  a  part  usually  being 
left  unmentioned.23 

The  reference  to  Hamlet  is  especially  appropriate,  in 
view  of  the  newer  interpretation  that  has  been  placed  upon 
Hamlet's  quandaries.  For  more  than  a  hundred  years,  we 
had  been  getting  a  German  translation  of  Hamlet,  a  trans- 
lation in  terms  of  romantic  idealism,  a  translation  brought 
into  English  by  Coleridge,  who  interpreted  Hamlet  as  an 
Elizabethan  Coleridge,  the  "man  of  inaction."  The  newer 
and  juster  interpretation,  which  Maurice  Evans  has  done 
much  to  restore  for  us,  largely  by  the  simple  expedient  of 


but  becomes  "proud"  when  the  moralizing  light  of  "cure"  is  hidden  under  the 
accumulated  bushel  of  power). 

23  The  Paget  theory  of  "gesture  speech"  obviously  makes  a  perfect  fit  with  this 
perspective  by  correlating  the  origins  of  linguistic  action  with  bodily  action  and 
posture. 

IO3 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
giving  us  the  play  uncut,  is  that  of  Hamlet  as  the  "scientist," 
a  man  anxious  to  weigh  all  the  objective  evidence  prior  to 
the  act.  Among  other  things,  it  has  been  pointed  out,  there 
was  the  "scientific"  problem  (as  so  conceived  within  the  be- 
liefs current  in  Shakespeare's  day)  of  determining  whether 
the  ghost  was  really  the  voice  of  his  father  or  a  satanic  de- 
ception. And  Hamlet,  as  preparation  for  his  act,  employed 
the  stolid  Horatio  and  the  ruse  of  the  play-within-a-play  as 
"controls,"  to  make  sure  that  his  interpretation  of  the  scene 
was  not  fallacious,  or  as  we  might  say,  "subjective."  24 
The  objection  may  be  raised  that  "historically"  the  ritual 

24  An  exceptionally  good  instance  revealing  the  ways  in  which  dramatic  struc- 
ture underlies  essayistic  material  may  be  got  by  inspection  of  Max  Lerner's  article, 
"Constitution  and  Court  as  Symbols"  (The  Yale  Law  Journal,  June,  1937).  The 
essay  is  divided  into  four  parts,  or  as  we  should  say,  four  acts.  (In  modern  play- 
writing,  the  four-act  form  has  very  often  replaced  the  five-act  form  of  earlier 
Western  drama,  the  climax  coming  in  the  third  act,  with  the  aftermath  of  acts 
IV  and  V  telescoped  into  one.) 

Act  I.  "Symbols  Possess  Men."  Here  the  dramatist  acquaints  us  with  the  situa- 
tion in  which  his  tragedy  is  to  be  enacted.  He  describes  the  ways  in  which  leaders 
prod  people  to  desired  forms  of  action  by  manipulating  the  symbols  with  which 
these  people  think.  He  then  narrows  the  field  to  the  "constitution  as  symbol," 
and  places  the  Supreme  Court  as  a  personalized  vessel  of  the  Constitutional 
authority. 

Act  II.  "Constitution  into  Fetich."  The  action  is  now  under  way.  Reviewing 
American  history,  the  dramatist  develops  in  anecdotal  arpeggio  the  proposition 
summed  up  by  a  timeless  level  of  abstraction  in  Act  I.  The  act  ends  on  "evidence 
of  the  disintegration  of  the  constitutional  symbol,"  a  theme  that  will  be  carried  an 
important  step  farther  in— 

Act  III.  "Divine  Right:  American  Plan."  The  Justices  of  the  Supreme  Court  are 
here  presented  as  our  equivalent  for  kingship  and  godhead.  And  the  act  ends  on 
the  tragic  crime,  the  symbolic  slaying  of  the  sacrificial  king,  as  the  author  is 
attacking  our  "kings,"  (i.e.,  he  advocates  their  deposition  from  authority).  In  a 
footnote,  the  symmetry  is  rounded  out  by  a  kind  of  "funeral  oration"  that  gives 
the  slain  fathers  their  dues:  "There  seems  to  be  something  about  the  judicial 
robes  that  not  only  hypnotizes  the  beholder  but  transforms  the  wearer;  Marshall 
and  Taney  are  the  principal,  but  not  the  only,  instances  of  men  whose  capacities 
for  greatness  no  one  suspected  until  they  faced  the  crucial  tasks  of  the  Court." 
Thus,  in  both  their  malign  and  benign  functions,  these  offerings  are  "worthy"  of 
sacrifice. 

Act  IV.  "New  Symbols  for  Old."  The  result  of  the  slaying  is  indeed  a  surprise, 
if  approached  from  other  than  the  dramatic  point  of  view.  For  a  new  vision 
emerges,  a  vision  of  the  basic  motives  by  which  men  are  moved.  And  strangely 
enough,  these  "transcendent"  motives  are  himger  and  fear.  They  are  naturalistic 
motives.  The  dramatist,  released  by  the  slaying  of  the  fathers,  has  "gone  primi- 

104 


LITERARY    FORM 

drama  is  not  the  Ur-form.  If  one  does  not  conceive  of  ritual 
drama  in  a  restricted  sense  (allowing  for  a  "broad  interpre- 
tation" whereby  a  Greek  goat-song  and  a  savage  dance  to 
tom-toms  in  behalf  of  fertility,  rain,  or  victory  could  be  put 
in  the  same  bin),  a  good  argument  could  be  adduced,  even 
on  the  historical,  or  genetic,  interpretation  of  the  Ur-form. 
However,  from  my  point  of  view,  even  if  it  were  proved 
beyond  all  question  that  the  ritual  drama  is  not  by  any 
means  the  poetic  prototype  from  which  all  other  forms  of 
poetic  and  critical  expression  have  successively  broken  off 
(as  dissociated  fragments  each  made  "efficient"  within  its 
own  rights),  my  proposal  would  be  in  no  way  impaired.  Let 
ritual  drama  be  proved,  for  instance,  to  be  the  last  form 
historically  developed;  or  let  it  be  proved  to  have  arisen 
anywhere  along  the  line.  There  would  be  no  embarrass- 
ment: we  could  contend,  for  instance,  that  the  earlier  forms 
were  but  groping  towards  it,  as  rough  drafts,  with  the  ritual 
drama  as  the  perfection  of  these  trends — while  subsequent 
forms  could  be  treated  as  "departures"  from  it,  a  kind  of 
"aesthetic  fall." 

The  reason  for  our  lack  of  embarrassment  is  that  we  are 
not  upholding  this  perspective  on  the  basis  of  historical  or 
genetic  material.  We  are  proposing  it  as  a  calculus — a  vo- 
cabulary, or  set  of  coordinates,  that  serves  best  for  the  in- 
tegration of  all  phenomena  studied  by  the  social  sciences. 
We  propose  it  as  the  logical  alternative  to  the  treatment 
of  human  acts  and  relations  in  terms  of  the  mechanistic 


tive."  The  coordinates  of  the  previous  acts  had  been  distinctly  social;  and,  as 
anyone  acquainted  with  Lerner's  brilliant  studies  is  aware,  the  coordinates  cus- 
tomary to  this  author  are  social;  but  here,  for  the  moment,  the  symbolic  slaying 
surprises  him  into  a  new  quality,  a  "Saturnalian"  vision.  The  episode  is,  of  course, 
essayistically  refurbished  elsewhere  so  that  social  coordinates  are  regained.  I  am 
here  but  discussing  the  form  of  this  one  article,  taken  as  an  independent  integer. 

105 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

metaphor  (stimulus,  response,  and  the  conditioned  reflex). 
And  we  propose  it,  along  with  the  contention  that  mecha- 
nistic considerations  need  not  be  excluded  from  such  a  per- 
spective, but  take  their  part  in  it,  as  a  statement  about  the 
predisposing  structure  of  the  ground  or  scene  upon  which 
the  drama  is  enacted.25 

Are  we  in  an  "Augustine"  period  or  a  "Thomistic" 
one?  "Faith"  cannot  act  relevantly  without  "knowledge" — 
"knowledge"  cannot  act  at  all  without  "faith."  But  though 
each  requires  the  other,  there  is  a  difference  of  emphasis 
possible.  The  great  political  confusion  of  the  present,  which 

25  In  work  on  which  I  am  now  engaged,  as  a  kind  of  "Prolegomena  to  any 
future  imputation  of  motives,"  I  have  been  applying  coordinates  that  can,  I  think, 
carry  a  step  further  the  ways  of  locating  and  distinguishing  motivational  ele- 
ments. I  now  distinguish  the  three  voices,  active,  passive,  and  middle  (reflexive), 
as  they  show  motivationally  in  theories  stressing  action,  passion,  and  mediation. 
And  instead  of  the  situation-strategy  pair,  I  now  use  five  terms:  act,  scene,  agent, 
agency,  purpose. 

These  five  terms,  with  a  treatment  of  the  purely  internal  or  syntactic  relation- 
ships prevailing  among  them,  are  I  think  particularly  handy  for  extending  the 
discussion  of  motivation  so  as  to  locate  the  strategies  in  metaphysical  and  theologi- 
cal systems,  in  accounts  of  the  Creation,  in  theories  of  law  and  constitutionality, 
and  in  the  shifts  between  logic  and  history,  being  and  becoming,  as  these  shifts 
occur  in  theories  of  motivation. 

The  use  of  this  fuller  terminology  in  the  synopsizing  of  fictional  works  would 
require  no  major  emendations  in  the  methods  discussed.  But  I  might,  as  a  result 
of  it,  be  able  to  state  the  basic  rules  of  thumb  in  a  more  precise  way,  thus: 

The  critic  is  trying  to  synopsize  the  given  work.  He  is  trying  to  synopsize  it, 
not  in  the  degenerated  sense  which  the  word  "synopsis"  now  usually  has  for  us,  as 
meaning  a  mere  "skeleton  or  outline  of  the  plot  or  argument,"  but  in  the  sense 
of  "conveying  comprehensively,"  or  "getting  at  the  basis  of."  And  one  can  work 
towards  this  basis,  or  essence,  from  without,  by  "scissor -work"  as  objective  as  the 
nature  of  the  materials  permits,  in  focussing  all  one's  attention  about  the  motiva- 
tion, which  is  identical  with  structure. 

Hence,  one  will  watch,  above  all,  every  reference  that  bears  upon  expectancy 
and  foreshadowing,  in  particular  every  overt  reference  to  any  kind  of  "calling" 
or  "compulsion"  (i.e.,  active  or  passive  concept  of  motive).  And  one  will  note 
particularly  the  situational  or  scenic  material  (the  "properties")  in  which  such 
references  are  contexts;  for  in  this  way  he  will  find  the  astrological  relationships 
prevailing  between  the  plot  and  the  background,  hence  being  able  to  treat  scenic 
material  as  representative  of  psychic  material  (for  instance,  if  he  has  distinguished 
between  a  motivation  in  the  sign  of  day  and  a  motivation  in  the  sign  of  night,  as 
explicitly  derivable  by  citation  from  the  book  itself,  and  if  he  now  sees  night  fall- 
ing, he  recognizes  that  the  quality  of  motivation  may  be  changing,  with  a  new 
kind  of  act  being  announced  by  the  change  of  scene). 

106 


LITERARY    FORM 

is  matched  in  the  poetic  sphere  by  a  profusion  of  rebirth 
rituals,  with  a  great  rise  of  adolescent  characters  as  the 
bearers  of  "representative"  roles  (adolescence  being  the  tran- 
sitional stage  par  excellence),  gives  reason  to  believe  that  we 
are  in  a  kind  of  "neo-evangelical"  era,  struggling  to  an- 
nounce a  new  conception  of  purpose.  And  we  believe  that 
such  a  state  of  affairs  would  require  more  of  the  "Augustine" 
stress  upon  the  agon,  the  contest,  with  knowledge  as  the 
Hamletic  preparation  for  the  act  required  in  this  agon. 
Scientific  pragmatism,  as  seen  from  this  point  of  view,  would 
be  considered  less  as  a  philosophical  assertion  per  se  than 
as  the  lore  of  the  "complicating  factors"  involved  in  any 
philosophic  assertion.  It  would  be  a  necessary  admonitory 
adjunct  to  any  philosophy,  and  thus  could  and  should  be 
engrafted  as  an  essential  corrective  ingredient  in  any  phi- 
losophy; its  best  service  is  in  admonishing  us  what  to  look 
out  for  in  any  philosophic  assertion. 

The  relation  between  the  "drama"  and  the  "dialectic"  is 
obvious.  Plato's  dialectic  was  appropriately  written  in  the 
mode  of  ritual  drama.  It  is  concerned  with  the  maieutic,  or 
midwifery,  of  philosophic  assertion,  the  ways  in  which  an 
idea  is  developed  by  the  "cooperative  competition"  of  the 
"parliamentary."  Inimical  assertions  are  invited  to  collabo- 
rate in  the  perfecting  of  the  assertion.  In  fact,  the  greatest 
menace  to  dictatorships  lies  in  the  fact  that,  through  their 
"efficiency"  in  silencing  the  enemy,  they  deprive  themselves 
of  competitive  collaboration.  Their  assertion  lacks  the  op- 
portunity to  mature  through  "agonistic"  development.  By 
putting  the  quietus  upon  their  opponent,  they  bring  them- 
selves all  the  more  rudely  against  the  unanswerable  opponent, 
the  opponent  who  cannot  be  refuted,  the  nature  of  brute  re- 
ality itself.  In  so  far  as  their  chart  of  meanings  is  inadequate 
107 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
as  a  description  of  the  scene,  it  is  not  equipped  to  encompass 
the  scene.  And  by  silencing  the  opponent,  it  deprives  itself 
of  the  full  value  to  be  got  from  the  "collective  revelation" 
to  the  maturing  of  which  a  vocal  opposition  radically  con- 
tributes. 

And  there  is  a  "collective  revelation,"  a  social  structure 
of  meanings  by  which  the  individual  forms  himself.  Recent 
emphasis  upon  the  great  amount  of  superstition  and  error 
in  the  beliefs  of  savages  has  led  us  into  a  false  emphasis  here. 
We  have  tended  to  feel  that  a  whole  collectivity  can  be 
"wrong"  in  its  chart  of  meanings.  On  the  contrary,  if  a 
chart  of  meanings  were  ever  "wrong,"  it  would  die  in  one 
generation.  Even  the  most  superstition-ridden  tribe  must 
have  had  many  very  accurate  ways  of  sizing  up  real  obstacles 
and  opportunities  in  the  world,  for  otherwise  it  could  not 
have  maintained  itself.  Charts  of  meaning  are  not  "right" 
or  "wrong" — they  are  relative  approximations  to  the  truth. 
And  only  in  so  far  as  they  contain  real  ingredients  of  the 
truth  can  the  men  who  hold  them  perpetuate  their  progeny. 
In  fact,  even  in  some  of  the  most  patently  "wrong"  charts, 
there  are  sometimes  discoverable  ingredients  of  "rightness" 
that  have  been  lost  in  our  perhaps  "closer"  approximations. 
A  ritual  dance  for  promoting  the  fertility  of  crops  was  ab- 
surd enough  as  "science"  (though  its  absurdity  was  effec- 
tively and  realistically  corrected  in  so  far  as  the  savage, 
along  with  the  mummery  of  the  rite,  planted  the  seed;  and 
if  you  do  not  abstract  the  rite  as  the  essence  of  the  event, 
but  instead  consider  the  act  of  planting  as  also  an  important 
ingredient  of  the  total  recipe,  you  see  that  the  chart  of 
meanings  contained  a  very  important  accuracy).  It  should 
also  be  noted  that  the  rite,  considered  as  "social  science," 
had  an  accuracy  lacking  in  much  of  our  contemporary  ac- 
108 


LITERARY    FORM 

tion,  since  it  was  highly  collective  in  its  attributes,  a  group 
dance  in  which  all  shared,  hence  an  incantatory  device  that 
kept  alive  a  much  stronger  sense  of  the  group's  consub- 
stantiality  than  is  stimulated  today  by  the  typical  acts  of 
private  enterprise. 

In  equating  "dramatic"  with  "dialectic,"  we  automati- 
cally have  also  our  perspective  for  the  analysis  of  history, 
which  is  a  "dramatic"  process,  involving  dialectical  oppo- 
sitions. And  if  we  keep  this  always  in  mind,  we  are  reminded 
that  every  document  bequeathed  us  by  history  must  be 
treated  as  a  strategy  for  encompassing  a  situation.  Thus, 
when  considering  some  document  like  the  American  Con- 
stitution, we  shall  be  automatically  warned  not  to  consider 
it  in  isolation,  but  as  the  answer  or  rejoinder  to  assertions 
current  in  the  situation  in  which  it  arose.  We  must  take  this 
into  account  when  confronting  now  the  problem  of  abid- 
ing by  its  "principles"  in  a  situation  that  puts  forth  totally 
different  questions  than  those  prevailing  at  the  time  when 
the  document  was  formed.  We  should  thus  claim  as  our 
allies,  in  embodying  the  "dramatic  perspective,"  those  mod- 
ern critics  who  point  out  that  our  Constitution  is  to  be 
considered  as  a  rejoinder  to  the  theories  and  practices  of 
mercantilist  paternalism  current  at  the  time  of  its  estab- 
lishment.26 

26  In  this  connection,  we  might  note  a  distinction  between  positive  and  dialecti- 
cal terms — the  former  being  terms  that  do  not  require  an  opposite  to  define  them, 
the  latter  being  terms  that  do  require  an  opposite.  "Apple,"  for  instance,  is  a 
positive  term,  in  that  we  do  not  require,  to  understand  it,  the  concept  of  a 
"counter-apple."  But  a  term  like  "freedom"  is  dialectical,  in  that  we  cannot  locate 
its  meaning  without  reference  to  some  concept  of  enslavement,  confinement,  or 
restriction.  And  "capitalism"  is  not  a  positive  term,  but  a  dialectical  one,  to  be 
defined  by  reference  to  the  concepts  of  either  "feudalism"  or  "socialism." 

Our  courts  consider  the  Constitution  in  accordance  with  theories  of  positive 
law — yet  actually  the  Constitution  is  a  dialectical  instrument;  and  one  cannot 
properly  interpret  the  course  of  judicial  decisions  unless  he  treats  our  "guaranties 
of  Constitutional  rights"  not  as  positive  terms  but  as  dialectical  ones. 

IO9 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

Where  does  the  drama  get  its  materials?  From  the  "un- 
ending conversation"  that  is  going  on  at  the  point  in  history 
when  we  are  born.  Imagine  that  you  enter  a  parlor.  You 
come  late.  When  you  arrive,  others  have  long  preceded  you, 
and  they  are  engaged  in  a  heated  discussion,  a  discussion  too 
heated  for  them  to  pause  and  tell  you  exactly  what  it  is 
about.  In  fact,  the  discussion  had  already  begun  long  be- 
fore any  of  them  got  there,  so  that  no  one  present  is  qualified 
to  retrace  for  you  all  the  steps  that  had  gone  before.  You 
listen  for  a  while,  until  you  decide  that  you  have  caught  the 
tenor  of  the  argument;  then  you  put  in  your  oar.  Someone 
answers;  you  answer  him;  another  comes  to  your  defense; 
another  aligns  himself  against  you,  to  either  the  embarrass- 


Our  Bill  of  Rights,  for  instance,  is  composed  of  clauses  that  descended  from 
two  substantially  different  situations.  First,  as  emerging  in  Magna  Carta,  they 
were  enunciated  by  the  feudal  barons  in  their  "reactionary"  struggles  against  the 
"progressive"  rise  of  central  authority.  Later,  in  the  British  Petition  of  Right  and 
Bill  of  Rights,  they  were  enunciated  by  the  merchant  class  in  their  "progressive" 
struggles  against  the  "reactionary"  resistance  of  the  Crown.  It  is  in  this  second 
form  that  they  came  into  our  Constitution. 

BUT: 

Note  this  important  distinction:  in  the  British  Bill  of  Rights,  they  were  defined, 
or  located,  as  a  resistance  of  the  people  to  the  Croivn.  Thus  they  had,  at  this  stage, 
a  strongly  collectivistic  quality,  as  the  people  were  united  in  a  common  cause 
against  the  Crown,  and  the  rights  were  thus  dialectically  defined  with  relation 
to  this  opposition.  The  position  of  the  Crown,  in  other  words,  was  a  necessary 
term  in  giving  meaning  to  the  people's  counter-assertions. 

In  the  United  States  document,  however,  the  Crown  had  been  abolished.  Hence, 
the  dialectical  function  of  the  Crown  in  giving  meaning  to  the  terms  would  have 
to  be  taken  over  by  some  other  concept  of  sovereignty.  And  the  only  sovereign 
within  the  realm  covered  by  the  Constitution  was  the  government  elected  by  the 
people.  Hence,  since  the  opposite  "cooperates"  in  the  definition  of  a  dialectical 
term,  and  since  the  sovereignty  or  authority  against  which  the  rights  were  pro- 
claimed had  changed  from  that  of  an  antipopular  Crown  to  that  of  a  popularly 
representative  government,  it  would  follow  that  the  quality  of  the  "rights" 
themselves  would  have  to  change.  And  such  change  of  quality  did  take  place,  in 
that  the  rights  became  interpreted  as  rights  of  the  people  as  individuals  or  minori- 
ties against  a  government  representing  the  will  of  the  people  as  a  collectivity  or 
majority. 

Eventually,  this  interpretation  assisted  the  rise  of  the  great  super-corporations, 
linked  by  financial  ties  and  interlocking  directorates.  And  these  super-corporations 
gradually  come  to  be  considered  as  a  new  seat  of  authority,  placed  outside  the 

no 


LITERARY    FORM 

ment  or  gratification  of  your  opponent,  depending  upon 
the  quality  of  your  ally's  assistance.  However,  the  discus- 
sion is  interminable.  The  hour  grows  late,  you  must  depart. 
And  you  do  depart,  with  the  discussion  still  vigorously  in 
progress. 

It  is  from  this  "unending  conversation"  (the  vision  at  the 
basis  of  Mead's  work)  that  the  materials  of  your  drama 
arise.27  Nor  is  this  verbal  action  all  there  is  to  it.  For  all 
these  words  are  grounded  in  what  Malinowski  would  call 
"contexts  of  situation."  And  very  important  among  these 
"contexts  of  situation"  are  the  kind  of  factors  considered 
by  Bentham,  Marx,  and  Veblen,  the  material  interests  (of 
private  or  class  structure)  that  you  symbolically  defend  or 


direct  control  of  parliamentary  election.  And  as  this  kind  of  business  sovereignty 
becomes  recognized  as  bona  fide  sovereignty,  you  begin  to  see  a  new  change  taking 
place  in  the  "dialectical"  concept  of  Constitutional  rights.  For  theorists  begin 
now  to  think  of  these  rights  as  assertions  against  the  encroachments  of  the  super- 
corporations  (the  New  Crown).  That  is:  the  tendency  is  to  think  once  more  of 
the  rights  as  claimed  by  the  people  as  a  majority  against  the  rule  of  the  super- 
corporations  as  a  sovereign  minority. 

However,  the  statement  that  a  term  is  "dialectical,"  in  that  it  derives  its  mean- 
ing from  an  opposite  term,  and  that  the  opposite  term  may  be  different  at  dif- 
ferent historical  periods,  does  not  at  all  imply  that  such  terms  are  "meaningless." 
All  we  need  to  do  is  to  decide  what  they  are  against  at  a  given  period  (in  brief, 
to  recognize  that  the  Constitution  cannot  be  interpreted  as  a  positive  document, 
but  must  continually  be  treated  as  an  act  in  a  scene  outside  it,  hence  to  recognize 
that  we  must  always  consider  "the  Constitution  beneath  the  Constitution,"  or 
"the  Constitution  above  the  Constitution,"  or  "The  Constitution  around  the 
Constitution,"  which  may  as  you  prefer  be  higher  law,  divine  law,  the  laws  of 
biology,  or  of  big  business,  or  of  little  business,  etc.).  Much  of  the  cruder  linguis- 
tic analysis  done  by  the  debunko-semanticist  school  (worst  offender:  Stuart  Chase) 
involves  the  simple  fallacy  of  failing  to  note  the  distinction  between  positive  and 
dialectical  terms,  whereby,  in  applying  to  dialectical  terms  the  instruments  of 
analysis  proper  to  positive  terms,  they  can  persuade  themselves  that  the  terms  are 
meaningless. 

27  Also,  it  is  in  this  "unending  conversation"  that  the  assertions  of  any  given 
philosopher  are  grounded.  Strategically,  he  may  present  his  work  as  departing 
from  some  "rock-bottom  fact"  (he  starts,  for  instance:  "I  look  at  this  table.  I  per- 
ceive it  to  have.  .  .  ."  etc.).  Actually,  the  very  selection  of  his  "rock-bottom  fact" 
derives  its  true  grounding  from  the  current  state  of  the  conversation,  and  assumes 
quite  a  different  place  in  the  "hierarchy  of  facts"  when  the  locus  of  discussion 
has  shifted. 

Ill 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
symbolically  appropriate  or  symbolically  align  yourself  with 
in  the  course  of  making  your  own  assertions.  These  interests 
do  not  "cause"  your  discussion;  its  "cause"  is  in  the  genius 
of  man  himself  as  homo  loquax.  But  they  greatly  affect  the 
idiom  in  which  you  speak,  and  so  the  idiom  by  which  you 
think.  Or,  if  you  would  situate  the  genius  of  man  in  a  moral 
aptitude,  we  could  say  that  this  moral  aptitude  is  univer- 
sally present  in  all  men,  to  varying  degrees,  but  that  it  must 
express  itself  through  a  medium,  and  this  medium  is  in 
turn  grounded  in  material  structures.  In  different  property 
structures,  the  moral  aptitude  has  a  correspondingly  differ- 
ent idiom  through  which  to  speak. 

By  the  incorporation  of  these  social  idioms  we  build  our- 
selves, our  "personalities,"  i.  e.,  our  roles  (which  brings  us 
again  back  into  the  matter  of  the  drama).  The  movie  ver- 
sion of  Shaw's  Pygmalion  shows  us  the  process  in  an  almost 
terrifyingly  simplified  form,  as  we  observe  his  heroine  build- 
ing herself  a  character  synthetically,  by  mastering  the  in- 
signia, the  linguistic  and  manneristic  labels  of  the  class 
among  whom  she  would,  by  this  accomplishment,  symboli- 
cally enroll  herself  (with  the  promise  that  this  symbolic  en- 
rollment would  culminate  in  objective,  material  fulfill- 
ment). In  its  simplicity,  the  play  comes  close  to  heresy,  as 
might  be  revealed  by  matching  it  with  a  counter-heresy: 
Joyce's  individualistic,  absolutist,  "dictatorial"  establish- 
ment of  a  language  from  within.  Shaw's  heroine,  in  making 
herself  over  by  artificially  acquiring  an  etiquette  of  speech 
and  manners,  is  "internalizing  the  external"  (the  term  is 
Mead's).  But  Joyce  is  "externalizing  the  internal." 

I  call  both  of  these  "heresies"  because  I  do  not  take  a 
heresy  to  be  a  flat  opposition  to  an  orthodoxy  (except  as  so 
made  to  appear  under  the  "dialectical  pressure"  arising  from 
1 12 


LITERARY    FORM 

the  fact  that  the  two  philosophies  may  become  insignia  of 
opposed  material  forces);  I  take  a  heresy  rather  to  be  the 
isolation  of  one  strand  in  an  orthodoxy,  and  its  following- 
through-with-rational-efficiency  to  the  point  where  "logical 
conclusion"  cannot  be  distinguished  from  "reductio  ad 
absurdum."  An  "orthodox"  statement  here  would  require 
us  to  consider  complementary  movements:  both  an  internal- 
izing of  the  external  and  an  externalizing  of  the  internal. 
Heresies  tend  to  present  themselves  as  arguments  rather 
than  as  dictionaries.  An  argument  must  ideally  be  consistent, 
and  tactically  must  at  least  have  the  appearance  of  consist- 
ency. But  a  dictionary  need  not  aim  at  consistency:  it  can 
quite  comfortably  locate  a  mean  by  terms  signalizing  contra- 
dictory extremes.28 

28  An  ideal  philosophy,  from  this  point  of  view,  would  seek  to  satisfy  the  require- 
ments of  a  perfect  dictionary.  It  would  be  a  calculus  (matured  by  constant  reference 
to  the  "collective  revelation"  that  is  got  by  a  social  body  of  thought)  for  charting 
the  nature  of  events  and  for  clarifying  all  important  relationships.  As  it  works  out 
in  practice,  however,  a  philosophy  is  developed  partially  in  opposition  to  other 
philosophies,  so  that  tactics  of  refutation  are  involved,  thus  tending  to  give  the 
philosopher's  calculus  the  stylistic  form  of  a  lawyer's  plea. 

The  connection  between  philosophy  and  law  (moral  and  political)  likewise 
contributes  to  the  "lawyer's  brief"  strategy  of  presentation.  The  philosopher 
thus  is  often  led  to  attempt  "proving"  his  philosophy  by  proving  its  "justice"  in 
the  abstract,  whereas  the  only  "proof"  of  a  philosophy,  considered  as  a  calculus, 
resides  in  showing,  by  concrete  application,  the  scope,  complexity,  and  accuracy 
of  its  coordinates  for  charting  the  nature  of  events.  Thus,  the  name  for  "house" 
would  not  be  primarily  tested  for  "consistency"  with  the  names  for  "tree"  or 
"money."  One  would  reveal  the  value  of  the  names  by  revealing  their  corre- 
spondence with  some  important  thing,  function,  or  relationship.  This  is  what  we 
mean  by  saying  that  a  philosophy,  as  a  "chart,"  is  quite  at  home  in  contradictions. 

I  recall  a  man,  for  instance,  of  "heretical"  cast,  who  came  to  me  with  a  sorrow 
of  this  sort:  "How  can  you  ever  have  a  belief  in  human  rationality,"  he  com- 
plained, "when  you  see  things  like  this?"  And  he  showed  me  a  news  clipping 
about  a  truck  driver  who  had  received  a  prize  for  driving  his  truck  the  maximum 
distance  without  an  accident.  When  asked  how  he  did  it,  the  truck  driver  an- 
swered: "I  had  two  rules:  Give  as  much  of  the  road  as  you  can,  and  take  as 
much  as  you  can."  I  saw  in  this  no  grounds  to  despair  of  human  reason;  on  the 
contrary,  I  thought  that  the  prize  winner  had  been  a  very  moral  truck  driver, 
and  I  was  glad  to  read  that,  for  once  at  least,  such  great  virtue  had  been  re- 
warded. This  was  true  Aristotelian  truck  driving,  if  I  ever  saw  it;  and  whatever 
else  one  may  say  against  Aristotle,  I  never  heard  him  called  "irrational." 

What,  in  fact,  is  "rationality"  but  the  desire  for  an  accurate  chart  for  naming 

113 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

The  broad  outlines  of  our  position  might  be  codified  thus: 

(1)  We  have  the  drama  and  the  scene  of  the  drama.  The 
drama  is  enacted  against  a  background. 

(2)  The  description  of  the  scene  is  the  role  of  the  physical 
sciences;  the  description  of  the  drama  is  the  role  of  the  social 
sciences. 

(3)  The  physical  sciences  are  a  calculus  of  events;  the  so- 
cial sciences  are  a  calculus  of  acts.  And  human  affairs  being 
dramatic,  the  discussion  of  human  affairs  becomes  dramatic 
criticism,  with  more  to  be  learned  from  a  study  of  tropes 
than  from  a  study  of  tropisms. 

(4)  Criticism,  in  accordance  with  its  methodological  ideal, 
should  attempt  to  develop  rules  of  thumb  that  can  be 
adopted  and  adapted  (thereby  giving  it  the  maximum  possi- 
bility of  development  via  the  "collective  revelation,"  a  de- 
velopment from  first  approximation  to  closer  approxima- 
tion, as  against  the  tendency,  particularly  in  impressionistic 
criticism  and  its  many  scientific  variants  that  do  not  go  by 
this  name,  to  be  forever  "starting  from  scratch"). 

(5)  The  error  of  the  social  sciences  has  usually  resided  in 
the  attempt  to  appropriate  the  scenic  calculus  for  a  charting 
of  the  act. 

(6)  However,  there  is  an  interaction  between  scene  and 


what  is  going  on?  Isn't  this  what  Spinoza  had  in  mind,  when  calling  for  a  philoso- 
phy whose  structure  would  parallel  the  structure  of  reality?  We  thus  need  not 
despair  of  human  rationality,  even  in  eruptive  days  like  ours.  I  am  sure  that  even 
the  most  arbitrary  of  Nazis  can  be  shown  to  possess  it;  for  no  matter  how  inade- 
quate his  chart  of  meaning  may  be,  as  developed  under  the  deprivations  of  the 
quietus  and  oversimplifying  dialectical  pressure,  he  at  least  wants  it  to  tell  him 
accurately  what  is  going  on  in  his  world  and  in  the  world  at  large. 

Spinoza  perfected  an  especially  inventive  strategy,  by  this  stress  upon  the  "ade- 
quate idea"  as  the  ideal  of  a  chart,  for  uniting  free  will  and  determinism,  with 
rationality  as  the  bridge.  For  if  one's  meanings  are  correct,  he  will  choose  the 
wiser  of  courses;  in  this  he  will  be  "rational";  as  a  rational  man,  he  will  "want" 
to  choose  this  wiser  course;  and  as  a  rational  man  he  will  "have  to  want"  to  choose 
this  wiser  course. 

114 


LITERARY    FORM 

role.  Hence,  dramatic  criticism  takes  us  into  areas  that  in- 
volve the  act  as  "response"  to  the  scene.  Also,  although  there 
may  theoretically  be  a  common  scenic  background  for  all 
men  when  considered  as  a  collectivity,  the  acts  of  other  per- 
sons become  part  of  the  scenic  background  for  any  indi- 
vidual person's  act. 

(7)  Dramatic  criticism,  in  the  idiom  of  theology,  con- 
sidered the  individual's  act  with  relation  to  God  as  a  per- 
sonal background.  Pantheism  proclaimed  the  impersonality 
of  this  divine  role.  I.e.,  whereas  theology  treated  the  scenic 
function  of  Nature  as  a  "representative"  of  God,  pantheism 
made  the  natural  background  identical  with  God.  It  nar- 
rowed the  circumference  of  the  context  in  which  the  act 
would  be  located.  Naturalism  pure  and  simple  sought  to 
eliminate  the  role  of  divine  participation  completely,  though 
often  with  theological  vestiges,  as  with  the  "God-function" 
implicit  in  the  idea  of  "progressive  evolution,"  where  God 
now  took  on  a  "historicist"  role.  History,  however,  deals  with 
"events,"  hence  the  increasing  tendency  in  the  social  sciences 
to  turn  from  a  calculus  of  the  act  to  a  "pure"  calculus  of  the 
event.  Hence,  in  the  end,  the  ideal  of  stimulus-response 
psychology. 

(8)  Whatever  may  be  the  character  of  existence  in  the 
physical  realm,  this  realm  functions  but  as  scenic  back- 
ground when  considered  from  the  standpoint  of  the  human 
realm.  I.  e.,  it  functions  as  "lifeless,"  as  mere  "property" 
for  the  drama.  And  an  ideal  calculus  for  charting  this  physi- 
cal realm  must  treat  it  as  lifeless  (in  the  idiom  of  mechanistic 
determinism).  But  to  adopt  such  a  calculus  for  the  charting 
of  life  is  to  chart  by  a  "planned  incongruity"  (i.  e.,  a  treat- 
ment of  something  in  terms  of  what  it  is  not). 

(9)  The  ideal  calculus  of  dramatic  criticism  would  re- 
1 1  (=i 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
quire,  not  an  incongruity,  but  an  inconsistency.   I.  e.,   it 
would  be  required  to  employ  the  coordinates  of  both  deter- 
minism and  free  will. 

(10)  Being,  like  biology,  in  an  indeterminate  realm  be- 
tween vital  assertions  and  lifeless  properties,  the  realm  of 
the  dramatic  (hence  of  dramatic  criticism)  is  neither  physi- 
calist  nor  anti-physicalist,  but  physicalist-plus. 

Narrowing  our  discussion  from  consideration  of  the  social 
drama  in  general  to  matters  of  poetry  in  particular,  we  may 
note  that  the  distinction  between  the  "internalizing  of  the 
external"  and  the  "externalizing  of  the  internal"  involves 
two  different  functions  of  imagery:  imagery  as  confessional 
and  imagery  as  incantatory,  the  two  elements  that  John 
Crowe  Ransom  has  isolated  from  Aristotle's  Poetics  in  his 
chapters  on  "The  Cathartic  Principle"  and  "The  Mimetic 
Principle."  Imagery,  as  confessional,  contains  in  itself  a  kind 
of  "personal  irresponsibility,"  as  we  may  even  relieve  our- 
selves of  private  burdens  by  befouling  the  public  medium. 
If  our  unburdening  attains  an  audience,  it  has  been  "social- 
ized" by  the  act  of  reception.  In  its  public  reception,  even 
the  most  "excremental"  of  poetry  becomes  "exonerated" 
(hence  the  extreme  anguish  of  a  poet  who,  writing  "with 
maximum  efficiency"  under  such  an  aesthetic,  does  not  at- 
tain absolution  by  the  suffrage  of  customers). 

But  we  must  consider  also  the  "incantatory"  factor  in 
imagery:  its  function  as  a  device  for  inviting  us  to  "make 
ourselves  over  in  the  image  of  the  imagery."  Seen  from  this 
point  of  view,  a  thoroughly  "confessional"  art  may  enact  a 
kind  of  "individual  salvation  at  the  expense  of  the  group." 
Quite  as  the  development  of  the  "enlightenment"  in  the 
economic  sphere  was  from  a  collective  to  an  individual 
emphasis  (with  "private  enterprise"  as  the  benign  phase  of 
116 


LITERARY    FORM 

an  attitude  which  has  its  malign  counterpart  in  the  phi- 
losophy of  "sauve  qui  peut — and  the  devil  take  the  hind- 
most"), so  have  mass  rituals  tended  to  be  replaced  by  indi- 
vidualist revisions,  with  many  discriminations  that  adjust 
them  with  special  accuracy  to  the  particular  needs  of  their 
inventor  and  "signer";  while  this  mode  in  turn  attains  its 
logical  conclusion  or  reduction  to  absurdity  in  poetry  hav- 
ing the  maximum  degree  of  confessional  efficiency,  a  kind 
of  literary  metabolistic  process  that  may  satisfy  the  vital 
needs  of  the  poet  well  enough,  but  through  poetic  passages 
that  leave  offal  in  their  train.  Such  puns  seem  to  have  been 
consciously  exploited  by  Joyce  when  he  is  discussing  his 
ars  poetica  in  Finnegans  Wake,  hence  should  be  considered 
by  any  reader  looking  for  the  work's  motivations  (i.  e.,  the 
center  about  which  its  structure  revolves,  or  the  law  of  its 
development).  Freud's  "cloacal  theory"  would  offer  the 
simplest  explanation  as  to  the  ways  in  which  the  sexually 
private  and  the  excrementally  private  may  become  psycho- 
logically merged,  so  that  this  theme  could  be  treated  as  con- 
substantial  with  the  theme  of  incest  previously  mentioned. 
For  if  we  test  the  efficient  confessional  (as  perhaps  best  re- 
vealed in  a  writer  like  Faulkner)  from  the  standpoint  of  the 
incantatory  (from  the  standpoint  of  its  exhortation  to  "come 
on"  and  make  ourselves  over  in  the  image  of  its  imagery), 
we  quickly  realize  its  sinister  function,  from  the  standpoint 
of  over-all  social  necessities.  By  the  "incantatory"  test,  a 
sadistic  poetry,  when  reinforced  by  the  imaginative  resources 
of  genius,  seems  to  be  a  perfect  match,  in  the  aesthetic 
sphere,  to  the  "incantatory"  nature  of  our  mounting  arma- 
ment in  the  practical  or  political  sphere,  or  the  efficiency  of 
newspaper  headlines  (got  by  the  formation  and  training  of 
worldwide  organizations  devoted  to  the  culling  of  calamities, 
117 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
cataclysms,   and  atrocities   "rationally"   selected   from   the 
length  and  breadth  of  all  human  society,  and  given  as  our 
"true"  representation  of  "that  day's  news"). 

Confessional  efficiency,  in  its  range  from  poem  to  report, 
has  given  rise  to  an  equally  fallacious  counter-efficiency 
which,  recognizing  the  incantatory  function  of  imagery, 
diligently  selects  for  "reassuring"  purposes.  Hence,  the  con- 
fessional emphasis  of  the  nineteenth  century  was  "dialecti- 
cally  complemented"  by  an  aesthetic  of  easy  optimism, 
merging  into  the  sentimental  and  hypocritical,  making  peace 
with  the  disasters  in  the  world  by  flatly  decreeing  that  "all's 
right  with  the  world."  I  think  that  much  of  Whitman's 
appeal  resides  in  this  poetic  alchemy,  whereby  the  dangerous 
destruction  of  our  natural  resources  could  be  exaltedly  in- 
terpreted as  an  "advance" — while  simple  doctrines  of  auto- 
matic and  inevitable  progressive  evolution  were  its  replica 
in  the  "scientific"  bin. 

So,  in  sum,  we  had  two  opposite  excesses:  the  "cathartic" 
poetry  which  would  relieve  the  poet  of  his  spell  by  trans- 
ferring its  malignities  to  his  audience,  in  so  far  as  he  was 
capable  of  doing  so  (as  the  Ancient  Mariner  got  a  measure 
of  relief  from  his  curse  by  a  magnetic  transference  from 
himself  to  the  wedding-guest,  and  by  the  disasters  besetting 
the  Pilot's  boy).  It  is  an  art  that  tries  to  "leave  the  spell  upon 
us,"  an  art  that  I  would  propose  to  sum  up  as  the  "aesthetic 
of  the  Poe  story,"  a  "monotonic"  art,  from  which  the  reader 
can  escape  only  by  refusal,  by  being  "wholesomely  trivial" 
enough  to  respond  but  superficially  to  the  poet's  incanta- 
tions. And  we  had  a  "mimetic"  poetry  that  did  proceed  on 
the  recognition  of  the  incantatory  quality  in  imagery  (its 
function  in  inviting  us  to  assume  the  attitudes  correspond- 
ing to  its  gestures),  but  was  disposed  towards  the  strategy  of 
118 


LITERARY    FORM 

the  "idealistic  lie,"  in  simply  renaming  an  evil  as  a  good, 

establishing  solace  by  magical  decree. 

Perhaps  the  situation  is  most  clearly  revealed  in  music,  in 
the  gradual  change  from  "symphony"  to  "tone  poem,"  with 
Liszt  as  an  important  fulcrum  in  the  change.  The  symphonic 
form  contained  a  "way  in,"  "way  through,"  and  "way  out." 
It  sought  to  place  a  spell  of  danger  upon  us,  and  in  the 
assertion  of  its  finale  to  release  us  from  this  spell.  But  the 
tone  poem  sought  to  lead  us  in  and  leave  us  there,  to  have  us 
sink  beneath  the  ground  with  Alpheus  and  never  to  re- 
emerge  with  Arethusa.  It  sought  to  bewitch  us — and  our 
only  protection  against  it  was  either  triviality  of  response  or 
infection  by  a  hundred  other  witcheries,  a  general  clutter  of 
spells,  so  falling  across  one  another  on  the  bias,  that  in  their 
confusion  they  somewhat  neutralized  the  effects  of  one  an- 
other. 

As  regards  the  borderline  area,  in  which  the  symbolic  act 
of  art  overlaps  upon  the  symbolic  act  in  life,  I  would  now 
offer  an  anecdote  illustrative  of  spells,  and  how  one  might 
serve  the  ends  of  freedom,  not  by  the  attempt  to  eliminate 
spells  (which  I  consider  impossible)  but  by  a  critical  attempt 
to  coach  "good"  spells: 

A  man  is,  let  us  say,  subject  to  spells  of  alcoholic  debauch- 
ery. For  weeks  he  subsists,  in  a  drugged  stupor.  After  which 
he  recovers,  is  "purified,"  and  for  varying  lengths  of  time 
rigorously  abstains  from  alcohol. 

He  also  has  a  sporadic  gift  for  writing.  But  he  cannot 
sustain  this  happier  kind  of  spell,  and  when  he  relapses  into 
an  alcoholic  debauch,  he  has  no  greater  powers  of  articulacy 
than  a  cabbage.  His  friends  say  that  his  weakness  for  alcohol 
is  gradually  destroying  his  gift  for  writing;  and  he  also  fears 
this  to  be  the  case.  Their  interpretation  seems  borne  out 
119 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
by  a  correlation  between  the  two  kinds  of  spell,  the  malign 
"gift  for"  alcoholism  and  the  benign  "relapses  into"  writ- 
ing. For  after  he  has  ended  a  debauch,  and  has  abstained 
from  alcohol  for  a  time,  his  literary  aptness  returns. 

He  is  especially  apt,  let  us  say,  in  depicting  the  current 
scene  by  a  felicitous  twist  of  humor  that  gets  things  pictur- 
esquely awry.  And  when  the  benign  spell  is  upon  him,  some 
very  appealing  squibs  of  this  sort  occur  to  him.  Then  he  is 
happy — and  his  friends  begin  to  renew  their  hopes  for  him. 
They  bestir  themselves  to  assist  him  in  getting  the  items 
published. 

But  what  if  the  correlation  between  the  malign  alcoholic 
spell  and  the  benign  literary  spell  should  be  differently  in- 
terpreted? What  if  they  are  but  different  stages  along  the 
same  graded  series,  different  parts  of  the  same  spectrum? 

The  literary  gift  of  felicitous  distortion  would  thus  be 
but  an  incipient  manifestation  of  the  extreme  distortions 
got  by  alcohol.  Hence,  when  our  hero  writes  his  squibs  in 
the  belief  that  they  are  the  opposite  of  his  alcoholism,  he 
may  really  be  turning  to  the  kind  of  incantation  that  acts  as 
the  "way  in"  to  his  period  of  debauch.  Precisely  when  he 
thinks  he  is  on  the  road  to  recovery,  he  would  have  begun 
the  first  stage  of  yielding. 

The  squibs,  that  is,  are  in  his  psychic  economy  a  repre- 
sentative of  the  alcohol;  they  are  part  of  the  same  cluster; 
they  function  synecdochically,  and  thus  contain  implicitly, 
as  "foreshadowing,"  the  whole  of  the  cluster.  Hence,  in 
writing  them,  he  is  taking  alcohol  vicariously.  This  is  not 
to  say  that  the  squibs  are  a  mere  "sublimation"  of  alcohol- 
ism; you  could  with  more  justice  say  that  the  alcoholism  is 
a  more  "efficient"  embodiment  of  the  aesthetic  exemplified 
in  the  squibs.  What  is  got  by  materialistic  manipulation 
120 


LITERARY    FORM 

through  the  taking  of  the  alcohol,  "ex  opere  operato,"  is  but 
the  attainment,  in  a  simplified,  restricted  idiom,  of  the 
effects  got  in  a  more  complex  idiom  through  the  writing  of 
the  squibs. 

The  Latin  formula  is  borrowed  from  theological  contro- 
versy about  the  nature  of  the  sacrament.  In  pagan  magic,  the 
material  operations  of  the  sacrament  were  deemed  enough 
to  produce  the  purification.  Ritual  purification  was  a  "scien- 
tific" process,  with  the  purifying  effects  got  simply  by  the 
material  operations  of  the  rite.  No  matter  of  conscience  was 
involved;  no  private  "belief"  was  thought  necessary  to  the 
success  of  the  rite.  The  purification  was,  rather,  thought  to 
operate  like  the  cures  of  modern  medicine  (from  the  mere 
performing  of  the  correct  material  acts  themselves) — as  the 
effects  of  castor  oil  are  the  same  with  "believer"  and  "non- 
believer"  alike.  Theological  tacticians  had  the  problem  of 
taking  over  the  "scientific"  magic  of  paganism  and  intro- 
ducing a  religious  emphasis  upon  the  need  of  conscience  or 
belief  as  a  factor  in  the  effectiveness  of  the  rite,  without 
thereby  implying  that  the  rite  was  purely  "symbolic."  The 
magical  doctrine  was  "realistic";  and  similarly,  the  religious 
sacrament  was  "realistic"  (that  is,  the  rite  was  held  really  to 
have  transubstantiated  the  holy  wafers  and  the  wine  into 
the  body  and  blood  of  Christ:  the  act  was  not  deemed  merely 
"symbolical,"  except  among  schismatics;  it  was  as  material- 
istic a  means  of  purification  as  castor  oil,  yet  at  the  same 
time  its  effective  operation  required  the  collaboration  of 
belief,  as  castor  oil  does  not;  the  effect  could  not  be  got, 
as  with  pagan  magic  and  scientific  materialism,  through  the 
objective  operation  alone,  i.  e.,  ex  opere  operato).  We  find 
this  delicate  state  of  indeterminacy  in  the  relation  between 
the  squibs  and  the  alcoholism,  though  the  "piety"  here  is 
121 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
of  a  different  sort  than  that  considered  as  the  norm  by  ortho- 
dox Christian  theologians:  a  piety  more  in  keeping  perhaps 
with  the  genius  of  Bacchantic  services,  the  cult  of  methodic 
distortion  that  stressed  the  element  of  Priapic  obscenities 
and  finally  became  sophisticated,  alembicated,  and  attenu- 
ated in  comedy.  The  writing  of  the  squibs  corresponds  to 
the  stage  aimed  at  by  the  theologians:  it  is  a  material  opera- 
tion, yet  at  the  same  time  it  requires  "belief."  The  alcoholic 
stage  is  purely  materialistic,  the  results  now  being  attained 
efficiently  by  the  "real"  power  of  the  substance  alone. 

But  note  the  ironic  element  here.  If  the  writing  of  the 
squibs  is  in  the  same  equational  structure  with  the  taking 
of  the  alcohol,  in  writing  the  squibs  it  is  as  though  our  hero 
had  "taken  his  first  drink."  This  is  the  one  thing  he  knows 
he  must  not  do.  For  he  knows  that  he  is  incapable  of  moder- 
ation, once  the  first  drink  has  been  taken.  But  if  the  squibs 
and  the  alcohol  are  in  the  same  cluster,  he  has  vicariously 
taken  the  first  drink  in  the  very  act  which,  on  its  social  face, 
was  thought  by  him  and  his  friends  to  belong  in  an  oppos- 
ing cluster. 

Thus,  he  has  begun  his  "way  in."  He  has  begun  infecting 
himself  with  a  kind  of  incantation  that  synecdochically  fore- 
shadows, or  implicitly  contains,  the  progression  from  this 
less  efficient,  ritualistic  yielding  to  an  efficient,  practical 
yielding:  he  has  begun  the  chain  of  developments  that  fi- 
nally leads  into  alcohol  as  the  most  direct  means  for  embody- 
ing the  same  aesthetic  of  distortion  as  was  embodied  in  his 
squibs. 

The  irony  is  that,  if  he  wanted  to  guard  properly  against 
relapse,  instead  of  writing  the  squibs,  he  would  resolutely 
refuse  to  write  them.  He  would  recognize  that,  however  it 
may  be  in  the  case  of  other  men,  in  his  case  he  conjures  forth 

122 


LITERARY    FORM 

a  djinn  (or,  if  you  will,  gin)  that  will  come  at  his  beckoning 
but  will  develop  powers  of  its  own,  once  summoned.  He  may 
know  the  magical  incantations  that  summon  it;  but  he  does 
not  know  the  magical  incantations  that  compel  it  to  obey 
him,  once  it  has  been  summoned;  hence,  let  him  not  sum- 
mon it. 

Would  this  mean  that  our  hero  should  not  write  at  all? 
I  do  not  think  so.  On  the  contrary,  I  think  it  means  that  he 
should  attempt  to  coach  some  other  kind  of  writing,  of  a/ 
different  incantatory  quality.  From  this  kind  he  would 
rigorously  exclude  the  slightest  distortion,  no  matter  ho 
appealing  such  distortion  might  be.  For  him,  such  distor 
tions  are  in  the  category  of  intemperance,  regardless  of  what 
category  they  may  be  in  for  others.  Only  thus,  by  deliber- 
ately refusing  to  cultivate  such  incantatory  modes,  would  he 
be  avoiding  a  "way  in"  to  a  dangerous  state  of  mind  and 
utilizing  a  mode  of  incantation  truly  oppositional  to  his 
weakness.29 

We  are  not  proposing  here  a  mere  literary  variant  of 
Buchmanism.  We  take  it  for  granted  that  our  hero's  alcohol- 
ism is  also  interwoven  with  a  material  context  of  situation, 

29  I  should  contend  that  our  hero,  in  thus  altering  his  incantatory  methods, 
would  get  greater  freedom  by  acting  more  rationally.  Others,  however,  would 
consider  any  incantation  as  per  se  a  sign  of  "irrationality."  The  issue  probably 
resolves  into  two  contrasting  theories  of  consciousness.  There  is  a  one-way  theory, 
which  holds  that  freedom  is  got  by  a  kind  of  drainage,  drawing  something  ("en- 
ergy"?) from  the  unconscious  and  irrational  into  the  conscious  and  rational.  I  call 
it  the  "reservoir  theory,"  according  to  which  a  "dark"  reservoir  is  tapped  and  its 
contents  are  gradually  pumped  into  a  "light"  reservoir,  the  quantities  being  in 
inverse  proportion  to  each  other.  Against  this,  I  should  propose  a  two-way,  "dia- 
lectical" theory,  with  "conscious"  and  "unconscious"  considered  as  reciprocal 
functions  of  each  other,  growing  or  diminishing  concomitantly.  An  infant,  by  this 
theory,  would  be  sparse  in  "unconscious"  (with  sparse  dreams)  owing  to  the 
sparsity  of  its  consciousness  (that  provides  the  material  for  dreams).  And  by  this 
theory,  the  attempt  to  "drain  off"  the  unconscious  would  be  absurd.  Instead,  one 
would  seek  to  "harness"  it.  I  believe  that  this  dialectical  theory,  as  ultimately  de- 
veloped, would  require  that  charitas,  rather  than  "intelligence,"  be  considered  as 
the  primary  faculty  of  adjustment. 

123 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
which  has  become  similarly  endowed  with  "incantatory" 
quality,  and  must  be  critically  inspected  from  the  stand- 
point of  the  possibility  that  many  environmental  ingredients 
would  also  require  alteration.  We  do  hold,  however,  that 
environmental  factors  which  one  is  personally  unable  to 
change  can  be  given  a  different  incantatory  quality  by  a 
change  of  one's  relationship  towards  them  (as  with  his 
change  of  allegiance  from  one  band  to  another). 

It  is,  then,  my  contention,  that  if  we  approach  poetry 
from  the  standpoint  of  situations  and  strategies,  we  can 
make  the  most  relevant  observations  about  both  the  content 
and  the  form  of  poems.  By  starting  from  a  concern  with  the 
various  tactics  and  deployments  involved  in  ritualistic  acts 
of  membership,  purification,  and  opposition,  we  can  most 
accurately  discover  "what  is  going  on"  in  poetry.  I  contend 
that  the  "dramatic  perspective"  is  the  unifying  hub  for  this 
approach.  And  that  it  is  not  to  be  "refuted,"  as  a  calculus, 
by  introducing  some  "argument"  from  logic  or  genetics,  or 
simply  by  listing  a  host  of  other  possible  perspectives;  the 
only  serviceable  argument  for  another  calculus  would  be  its 
explicit  proclamation  and  the  illustrating  of  its  scope  by 
concrete  application.  I  do  not  by  any  means  maintain  that 
no  other  or  better  calculus  is  possible.  I  merely  maintain 
that  the  advocate  of  an  alternative  calculus  should  establish 
its  merits,  not  in  the  abstract,  but  by  "filling  it  out,"  by 
showing,  through  concrete  applications  to  poetic  materials, 
its  scope  and  relevance. 

Some  students,  however,  seem  to  feel  that  this  perspective 
vows  us  to  a  neglect  of  the  "realistic"  element  in  poetry.  Its 
stress  upon  processes  of  ritual  and  stylization,  it  is  felt,  too 
greatly  implies  that  the  poet  is  making  passes  in  the  air,  mere 
124 


LITERARY    FORM 

blandishments  that  look  silly,  as  tested  by  the  "realistic" 
criteria  of  science. 

In  the  first  place,  I  would  recall  my  distinction  between 
"realism"  and  "naturalism,"  as  a  way  of  suggesting  that 
much  we  call  "realism"  in  science  should  be  more  accurately 
called  "naturalism."  In  the  aesthetic  field,  "naturalism"  is 
a  mode  of  "debunking."  Where  some  group  ideal  is  being 
exploited  for  malign  purposes  (as  when  the  scoundrel  has 
recourse  to  patriotism  in  cloaking  his  unpatriotic  acts),  the 
"naturalist"  will  proceed  "efficiently"  by  debunking  not 
only  the  scoundrel  but  the  patriotism  he  exploits  in  his 
scoundreldom.  Or  he  will  "debunk"  the  religious  hypocrite 
by  "debunking"  religion  itself.  Thurman  Arnold's  "scien- 
tific" analysis  of  social  relations  in  his  Folklore  of  Capitalism 
is  largely  of  this  "naturalistic"  cast,  leading  him  finally  to  a 
flat  dissociation  between  the  "scientist"  and  the  "citizen." 
To  act  as  a  "citizen,"  by  his  criteria,  one  must  participate  in 
certain  forms  of  political  mummery.  But  to  diagnose  as  a 
"scientist,"  one  should  simply  "expose"  this  mummery. 

Now,  I  grant  that  there  is  much  faulty  mummery  in  the 
world  (indeed,  I  propose  to  wind  up  this  discussion  with  a 
little  burlesque  revealing  some  of  it).  But  where  a  structure 
of  analysis  is  found  to  vow  one  to  a  flat  antithesis  between 
one's  role  as  scientist  and  one's  role  as  citizen,  we  should  at 
least  consider  the  possibility  that  the  structure  of  analysis 
itself  may  be  at  fault.  And  I  think  that  the  distinction  be- 
tween the  strategies  of  "realism"  and  "naturalism"  may 
provide  us  with  a  handy  way  in  to  this  matter. 

Scientific  "naturalism,"  we  have  suggested,  is  a  lineal 
descendant  of  nominalism,  a  school  that  emerged  in  the  late 
Middle  Ages  as  an  opponent  of  scholastic  realism.  And  we 
125 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

have  sought  to  sum  up  the  distinction  between  realism  and 
nominalism,  from  the  standpoint  of  strategies,  by  saying 
that  realism  considered  individuals  as  members  of  a  group, 
and  that  nominalism  considered  groups  as  aggregates  of  in- 
dividuals. We  thus  observe  that  the  nominalist  controversy, 
finally  incorporated  in  the  Franciscan  order,  prepared  for 
scientific  skepticism  in  undermining  the  group  coordinates 
upon  which  church  thought  was  founded,  and  also  prepared 
for  the  individualistic  emphasis  of  private  enterprise. 

This  individualistic  emphasis  led  in  turn  to  naturalism. 
Thus,  I  should  call  Dos  Passos  a  naturalist  rather  than  a 
realist.  And  I  should  call  the  "hard-boiled"  style  today  a 
kind  of  "academic  school  of  naturalism"  (a  characterization 
suggesting  that  Steinbeck's  sociality  is  still  encumbered  by 
"nonrealistic"  vestiges).  As  used  by  Arnold,  the  naturalist- 
nominalist  perspective  finally  leads  to  the  assumption  that 
the  devices  employed  in  a  group  act  are  mere  "illusions," 
and  that  the  "scientific  truth"  about  human  relations  is  dis- 
covered from  an  individualistic  point  of  view,  from  outside 
the  requirements  of  group  action.  One  reviewer,  intending 
to  praise  the  book,  hit  upon  the  most  damning  line  of  all,  in 
calling  it  a  "challenge  to  right,  center,  and  left,"  which  is 
pretty  much  the  same  as  saying  that  it  is  a  "challenge"  to 
any  kind  of  social  action. 

But  let  us  try  out  a  hypothetical  case.  Suppose  that  some 
disaster  has  taken  place,  and  that  I  am  to  break  the  informa- 
tion to  a  man  who  will  suffer  from  the  knowledge  of  it.  The 
disaster  is  a  fact,  and  I  am  going  to  communicate  this  fact. 
Must  I  not  still  make  a  choice  of  stylization  in  the  communi- 
cation of  this  fact?  I  may  communicate  it  "gently"  or 
"harshly,"  for  instance.  I  may  try  to  "protect"  the  man  some- 
what from  the  suddenness  of  the  blow;  or  I  may  so  "strate- 
126 


LITERARY    FORM 

gize"  my  information  that  I  reinforce  the  blow.  Indeed,  it 
may  even  be  that  the  information  is  as  much  a  blow  to  me 
as  it  is  to  him,  and  that  I  may  obtain  for  myself  a  certain 
measure  of  relief  from  my  own  discomfiture  by  "collaborat- 
ing with  the  information":  I  may  so  phrase  it  that  I  take  out 
some  of  my  own  suffering  at  the  information  by  using  it 
dramatically  as  an  instrument  for  striking  him.  Or  I  may  offer 
a  somewhat  similar  outlet  for  both  of  us,  by  also  showing 
that  a  certain  person  "is  to  blame"  for  the  disaster,  so  that 
we  can  convert  some  of  our  unhappiness  into  anger,  with 
corresponding  relief  to  ourselves. 

Now,  note  that  in  every  one  of  these  cases  I  have  com- 
municated "the  fact."  Yet  note  also  that  there  are  many 
different  styles  in  which  I  can  communicate  this  "fact." 
The  question  of  "realistic  accuracy"  is  not  involved;  for  in 
every  case,  after  I  have  finished,  the  auditor  knows  that  the 
particular  disaster,  about  which  I  had  to  inform  him,  has 
taken  place.  I  have  simply  made  a  choice  among  possible 
styles — and  I  could  not  avoid  such  a  choice.  There  is  no 
"unstylized"  feature  here  except  the  disastrous  event  itself 
(and  even  that  may  have  a  "stylistic"  ingredient,  in  that  it 
might  be  felt  as  more  of  a  blow  if  coming  at  a  certain  time 
than  if  it  had  come  at  a  certain  other  time — a  "stylistic" 
matter  of  timing  that  I,  as  the  imparter  of  the  information, 
may  parallel,  in  looking  for  the  best  or  worst  moment  at 
which  to  impart  my  information). 

I  should  call  it  a  "naturalistic"  strategy  of  communication 
if  I  so  stylized  the  informative  act  as  to  accept  the  minimum 
of  "group  responsibility"  in  my  choice.  If  I  communicated 
the  fact,  for  instance,  without  sympathy  for  the  auditor.  Or 
even  more  so,  if  I  did  have  sympathy  for  the  auditor,  and  the 
fact  was  as  disastrous  to  me  as  it  was  to  him,  but  I  "took  it 
127 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
out  on"  him  by  reinforcing  the  blow  rather  than  softening 
it.  And  I  should  call  it  a  "realistic"  strategy  if  I  stylized  my 
statement  with  the  maximum  sympathy  (or  "group  atti- 
tude"). 

Do  not  get  me  wrong.  I  am  not  by  any  means  absolutely 
equating  "science"  with  "naturalism."  I  am  saying  that  there 
is  a  so-called  science  that  identifies  "truth"  with  "debunk- 
ing"— and  I  am  simply  trying  to  point  out  that  such  "truth" 
is  no  less  a  "stylization"  than  any  other.  The  man  who  em- 
bodies it  in  his  work  may  be  as  "tender-minded"  as  the  next 
fellow;  usually,  in  fact,  I  think  that  he  is  even  more  so — 
as  will  be  revealed  when  you  find  his  "hard  hitting"  at  one 
point  in  his  communication  compensated  by  a  great  humani- 
tarian softness  at  another  point  (which,  as  I  have  tried  to 
show  elsewhere,  is  patly  the  case  with  Arnold). 

Stylization  is  inevitable.  Sometimes  it  is  done  by  senti- 
mentalization  (saying  "It's  all  right"  when  it  isn't).  Some- 
times by  the  reverse,  brutalization,  saying  it  with  an  over- 
bluntness,  in  "hard-boiled"  or  its  "scientific"  equivalents 
(sadism  if  you  like  to  write  it,  masochism  if  you  like  to  read 
it).  I  recall  a  surrealistic  movie  that  revealed  the  kind  of 
"protection"  we  may  derive  from  this  strategy,  in  the  aes- 
thetic field  where  the  information  to  be  imparted  is  usually 
not  quite  so  "disastrous"  as  the  hypothetical  event  we  have 
been  just  considering.  The  movie  opens  with  a  view  of  a 
man  sharpening  his  razor.  We  next  see  a  close-up  of  his  eye, 
an  enormous  eye  filling  the  entire  screen.  And  then,  slowly 
and  systematically,  the  blade  of  the  razor  is  drawn  across  this 
eye,  and  in  horror  we  observe  it  splitting  open.  Many  other 
horrors  follow,  but  we  have  been  "immunized"  by  the  first 
shock.  We  are  calloused;  we  have  already  been  through  the 
worst;  there  is  nothing  else  to  fear;  as  regards  further  pain,  we 
128 


LITERARY    FORM 

have  become  roues.  Sometimes  the  stylization  is  by  neutral 
description,  the  method  more  normal  to  scientific  procedure. 
And  tragedy  uses  the  stylization  of  ennoblement,  making 
the  calamity  bearable  by  making  the  calamitous  situation 
dignified. 

From  this  point  of  view  we  could  compare  and  contrast 
strategies  of  motivation  in  Bentham,  Coleridge,  Marx,  and 
Mannheim.  Bentham,  as  "debunker,"  discusses  motives 
"from  the  bottom  up."  That  is:  they  are  treated  as  "eulogistic 
coverings"  for  "material  interests."  Coleridge's  motivation 
is  "tragic,"  or  "dignifying,"  "from  the  top  down"  (in  his 
phrasing:  "a  Jove  principium").  He  treats  material  interests 
as  a  limited  aspect  of  "higher"  interests.  Marx  employs  a  fac- 
tional strategy  of  motivation,  in  debunking  the  motives  of  the 
bourgeois  enemy  and  dignifying  the  motives  of  the  prole- 
tarian ally.  Since  he  has  reversed  the  values  of  idealism,  he 
would  not  consider  the  material  grounding  of  proletarian 
interests  as  an  indignity.  The  proletarian  view  is  dignified 
by  being  equated  with  truth,  in  contrast  with  the  "idealistic 
lie"  of  a  class  that  has  special  prerogatives  to  protect  by  sys- 
tematic misstatements  about  the  nature  of  reality.  Mann- 
heim seeks  to  obtain  a  kind  of  "documentary"  perspective  on 
the  subject  of  motives,  on  a  "second  level"  of  generalization. 
That  is:  he  accepts  not  only  the  Marxist  debunking  of  bour- 
geois motives,  but  also  the  bourgeois  counter-debunking  of 
proletarian  motives;  and  he  next  proceeds  to  attenuate  the 
notion  of  "debunking"  ("unmasking")  into  a  more  neutral 
concept  that  we  might  in  English  call  "discounting"  or 
"making  allowance  for." 

Or  let  us  consider  another  hypothetical  case.  A  man  would 
enroll  himself  in  a  cause.  His  choice  may  be  justified  on 
thoroughly  "realistic"  grounds.  He  surveys  the  situation, 
129 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
sizes  it  up  accurately,  decides  that  a  certain  strategy  of  action 
is  required  to  encompass  it  and  that  a  certain  group  or  fac- 
tion is  organized  to  carry  out  this  strategy.  Nothing  could  be 
more  "realistic."  Yet  suppose  that  he  would  write  a  poem  in 
which,  deliberately  or  spontaneously,  he  would  "stylize"  the 
processes  of  identification  involved  in  this  choice.  His  act, 
no  matter  how  thoroughly  attuned  to  the  requirements  of 
his  times,  will  be  a  "symbolic  act,"  hence  open  to  the  kind  of 
analysis  we  have  proposed  for  the  description  of  a  symbolic 
act.  If  his  choice  of  faction  is  relevant  to  the  needs  of  the 
day,  its  "realism"  is  obvious.  If  the  chart  of  meanings  into 
which  he  fits  this  choice  of  faction  are  adequate,  the  rele- 
vance is  obvious.  And  to  call  his  poetic  gestures  merely 
"illusory"  would  be  like  calling  it  "illusory"  when  a  man, 
wounded,  "stylizes"  his  response  by  either  groaning  or  grit- 
ting his  teeth  and  flexing  his  muscles. 

There  is,  in  science,  a  tendency  to  substitute  for  ritual, 
routine.  To  this  extent,  there  is  an  antipoetic  ingredient  in 
science.  It  is  "poetic"  to  develop  method;  it  is  "scientific"  to 
develop  methodology.  (From  this  standpoint,  the  ideal  of 
literary  criticism  is  a  "scientific"  ideal.)  But  we  can  deceive 
ourselves  if  we  erect  this  difference  in  aim  into  a  distinc- 
tion between  "reality"  and  "illusion,"  maintaining  that,  as 
judged  by  the  ideals  of  scientific  routine  or  methodology, 
the  ideals  of  poetic  method,  or  ritual,  become  "illusions." 

The  body  is  an  actor;  as  an  actor,  it  participates  in  the 
movements  of  the  mind,  posturing  correspondingly;  in  styles 
of  thought  and  expression  we  embody  these  correlations — 
and  the  recognition  of  this  is,  as  you  prefer,  either  "scien- 
tific" or  "poetic." 

It  will  thus  be  seen  that,  in  playing  the  game  of  life,  we 
have  at  our  command  a  resource  whereby  we  can  shift  the 
130 


LITERARY    FORM 

rules  of  this  game.  It  is  as  though  someone  who  had  been 
losing  at  checkers  were  of  a  sudden  to  decide  that  he  had 
really  been  playing  "give  away"  (the  kind  of  checkers  where 
the  object  is  not  to  take  as  many  of  your  opponent's  men  as 
possible,  but  to  lose  as  many  of  your  own  as  possible).  Where 
our  resources  permit,  we  may  piously  encourage  the  awe- 
some, and  in  so  encompassing  it,  make  ourselves  immune 
(by  "tolerance,"  as  the  word  is  used  of  drugs,  by  Mithridat- 
ism).  Where  our  resources  do  not  permit,  where  we  cannot 
meet  such  exacting  obligations,  we  may  rebel,  developing  the 
stylistic  antidote  that  would  cancel  out  an  overburdensome 
awe.  And  in  between  these  extremes,  there  is  the  wide  range 
of  the  mean,  the  many  instances  in  which  we  dilute,  attenu- 
ate, mixing  the  ingredient  of  danger  into  a  recipe  of  other, 
more  neutral  ingredients,  wide  in  their  scope  and  complex- 
ity, a  chart  that  concerns  itself  with  the  world  in  all  its 
miraculous  diverse  plentitude.  And  for  this  plentitude  of 
the  Creation,  being  very  grateful. 

But  our  symbolic  acts  can  vary  greatly  in  relevance  and 
scope.  If  we  enact  by  tragedy  a  purificatory  ritual  symboliz- 
ing our  enrollment  in  a  cause  shaped  to  handle  a  situation 
accurately,  for  instance,  we  may  embody  the  same  processes 
as  if  we  enacted  a  purificatory  ritual  symbolizing  our  enroll- 
ment in  a  cause  woefully  inadequate  to  the  situation.  And 
the  analyst  of  the  two  tragedies  may,  by  reason  of  his  over-all 
classificatory  terms,  find  much  in  common  between  the  two 
symbolic  acts.  The  fact  remains,  however,  that  one  of  these 
acts  embodies  a  chart  of  meanings  superior  to  the  other  (and 
if  the  chart  is  too  far  out  of  accord  with  the  nature  of  the 
situation,  the  "unanswerable  opponent,"  the  objective  re- 
calcitrance of  the  situation  itself,  will  put  forth  its  irrefu- 
table rejoinder). 

131 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

To  illustrate  the  point,  I  will  close  this  discussion  by  a 
burlesque  in  which  a  certain  important  faultiness  of  chart 
may  be  revealed.  Our  form  here  may  be  like  that  of  the 
Greek  drama,  where  the  tragic  trilogy  was  regularly  topped 
off  by  a  satyr-play  exemplifying  the  same  heroic  processes  in 
their  caricatured  equivalents.  So  we  would  offer  a  kind  of 
"critical  analogue"  to  such  a  program,  rounding  out  our 
observations  on  the  nature  of  tragic  purification  by  a  bur- 
lesque in  which  our  democratic  elections  are  charted  by  the 
same  coordinates,  but  with  the  President  in  the  role  of  the 
Sacrificial  King. 

ELECTIONEERING     IN     PSYCHOANALYSIA 

Psychoanalysia,  an  island  situated  in  a  remote  area  of  the 
Not-so-Pacific  Ocean,  was  given  this  name  by  the  Western 
sociologists  who  went  there  to  study  its  customs.  The  natives 
call  their  island  Hobo-i,  which  means  nearly  the  same  as  "En 
Route"  in  our  idioms,  and  is  also  the  Psychoanalysians' 
word  for  "investment."  The  most  striking  characteristic  of 
Psychoanalysia  is  the  natives'  vivacious  interest  in  popular 
elections,  which  are  conducted  in  a  vocabulary  strikingly 
similar  to  that  of  our  Freudian  and  post-Freudian  psychol- 
ogies. The  Psychoanalysians'  social  and  political  structure  is 
quite  similar  to  that  of  our  capitalist  democracies,  and  in 
much  the  same  sort  of  disrepair.  But  their  peculiar  election- 
eering habits  are  here  briefly  described  because  of  the  light 
they  shed  upon  the  psychology  of  politics  in  general,  as 
shaped  by  democratic  institutions. 

Perhaps  the  quickest  way  to  acquaint  the  reader  with  the 
peculiar  flavor  of  Hobo-i  electioneering  methods  is  to  cite 
some  typical  political  slogans  of  Psychoanalysia: 

19,2 


LITERARY    FORM 

"Become  reborn  in  the  name  of  Blott." 
"Choose  Blott  for  father-symbol." 
"Make  Bloop  the  rejected  father." 

"Put  Blott  in  bed,  in  place  of  Bloop"  (a  Psychoanalysian 
idiom  difficult  to  translate  with  quite  the  right  flavor.  One 
might  get  the  point  somewhat  by  recalling  that  our  own 
word,  "incumbent,"  means  literally  "lying  down"  or  "re- 
clining." This  slogan  was  matched  by  another  of  Blott's, 
promising  that  he  wouldn't  make  his  bed  a  berth). 

An  important  feature  of  Psychoanalysian  elections  is  their 
emphasis  upon  the  curative  value  of  a  landslide.  Psycho- 
analysian politicians  of  all  parties  are  insistent  that  the  full 
cathartic  (or  purifying)  effect  of  an  election  is  frustrated  un- 
less the  voters  switch  violently  from  one  candidate  to  an- 
other. They  maintain  that  this  violence  of  reaction  is  all  the 
more  necessary  because  there  is  very  little  real  difference 
between  the  candidates.  For  the  last  hundred  and  fifty  years, 
according  to  native  tradition,  Psychoanalysia  has  had  a  one- 
party  government,  which  has  kept  itself  in  power  by  a  prac- 
tice locally  known  as  "electoral  obscenity."  And  it  is  in  ac- 
cordance with  this  strange  doctrine  of  "electoral  obscenity" 
(which  the  writer  will  explain  in  due  time)  that  all  Psycho- 
analysian politicians  insist  upon  the  landslide. 

In  fact,  the  native  society  has  developed  an  elaborate 
structure  of  scientific  forecasting,  known  as  Galloping,  that 
is  helping  make  the  catharsis  by  electoral  obscenity  more 
efficient,  as  it  stimulates  a  wider  swing  in  the  votes  from  one 
candidate  to  another.  Thus,  for  instance,  a  Galloping  sur- 
vey, taken  in  advance  of  election,  disclosed  that  400,002 
Psychoanalysians  were  planning  to  vote  for  Blott,  and  399,- 
J33 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

998  were  planning  to  vote  for  Bloop,  thus  giving  Blott  a 
majority  of  four.  But  as  soon  as  these  authoritative  forecasts 
were  announced,  many  of  the  indicated  minority,  eager  to 
be  on  the  winning  side,  shifted  to  Blott.  Thus,  the  final  elec- 
tion returns  showed  700,000  for  Blott,  as  against  but  100,- 
000  for  Bloop,  this  being  about  the  usual  proportion  of 
normal  to  unstable  citizens  among  the  Psychoanalysian  con- 
stituency. Also,  since  representation  is  not  proportional,  but 
by  majority,  even  a  faction  that  got  40  per  cent  of  the  votes 
might  have  practically  no  delegates  in  the  Hobo-ian  parlia- 
ment, so  that  here  again  we  get  an  opportunity  for  a  "cura- 
tive" result. 

The  tie-up  between  the  "electoral  obscenity"  doctrine,  the 
one-party  government,  and  the  "curative  value  of  a  land- 
slide" may  be  summed  up,  and  deprived  of  its  apparent  in- 
consistencies, in  this  wise:  Psychoanalysia,  for  one  hundred 
and  fifty  years,  has  been  the  victim  of  a  disorderly  property 
structure,  "Hobo-i-ugha,"  which  is  pretty  close  to  what  you 
would  get  by  putting  together  our  words  "liberty,"  "patriot- 
ism," "capitalism,"  "gravy,"  and  "stinko."  Factions  have 
come  and  gone,  raging  over  trifles,  but  always  the  same  gen- 
eral policies  of  government  have  been  maintained.  Thus, 
you  have  one-party  government  cunningly  maintained  by  a 
paradox,  a  constant  succession  of  coronations  and  deposi- 
tions. We  might  sum  up  in  this  way:  Revolution  is  avoided 
by  making  revolution  the  norm.  The  people  are  regularly 
encouraged  to  make  a  palace  revolution,  which  means  that, 
when  they  get  the  old  leader  out,  they  merely  put  the  same 
kind  in  his  place. 

Here  enters  the  doctrine  of  "electoral  obscenity,"  as  re- 
lated to  the  "curative  value  of  a  landslide"  doctrine.  Perhaps 
the  point  can  be  most  easily  made  clear  by  citing  some  fur- 
134 


LITERARY    FORM 

ther  electioneering  material  characteristic  of  Psychoanaly- 
sian  tradition  (I  again  select  my  material  from  posters  used 
a  few  years  back  by  Hobo-i  Blott,  a  prominent  figure  who 
both  came  in  and  went  out  with  what  we  would  call  a 
"Bang"): 

Blott's  posters:  "Throw  Bloop  out  of  office  by  a  landslide, 
and  you'll  feel  that  all  the  ills  of  an  ailing  capitalism  are  put 
on  the  skids  with  him"  (we  translate  freely:  "all  the  ills  of  an 
ailing  capitalism"  is,  in  the  native  dialect,  Hobo-i-ugha  dum- 
bella).  "But  remember:  Nothing  short  of  a  landslide  will  do 
this.  Nothing  less  than  a  vote  that  is  a  slaughter.  Remember 
Hirsutus-Diaperus." 

"Hirsutus-Diaperus"  obviously  requires  a  gloss.  The 
reference  is  to  a  local  tradition  much  like  our  celebrations  at 
New  Year's.  At  the  final  night  of  the  old  year,  there  is  a 
drama  enacted  between  Hirsutus,  a  bearded  old  man,  and 
Diaperus,  a  vigorous  young  boy,  just  born,  about  five  years 
old.  Hirsutus  is  a  pathetic  figure,  well  deserving  the  respect 
due  to  advanced  age — but  instead,  surprisingly,  the  Psycho- 
analysians  hoot  and  shout  at  him,  with  the  most  obscene 
revelry,  and  send  him  on  his  way  to  death  with  Saturnalian 
ribaldry.  The  feeling  is,  of  course,  that  by  this  show  of  dis- 
respect for  age  and  a  correspondingly  rowdy  welcome  to 
youth  they  are  ending  a  bad  phase  and  inaugurating  a  much 
better  one.  And  by  the  next  year  Diaperus  will  have  grown 
to  be  Hirsutus  with  bowed  head,  ripe  only  for  death;  and 
the  surging  mob  will  gather  to  mock  at  him  in  turn,  as 
Sacrificial  King,  and  to  set  up  a  new  Diaperus  in  his  place. 

It  is  this  practice  that  the  Psychoanalysian  politician  has 
in  mind  when  appealing  for  election  by  landslide,  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  doctrine  of  electoral  obscenity.  The 
justice  of  the  reference  is  obvious:  For  it  must  be  remem- 
135 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
bered  that,  whereas  Hirsutus  is  each  year  deposed  with  lewd- 
ness and  mockery,  the  traditional  structure  of  Hobo-i-ugha 
is  left  quite  as  it  was.  Hence,  nothing  is  changed.  Hence, 
since  all  the  ills  survive  intact,  there  is  nothing  to  do  the 
following  year  but  repeat  the  mummery  all  over  again, 
thereby  getting  a  sense  of  relief  and  promise  and  newness. 

Accordingly,  the  local  politician  is  but  asking  that  a  simi- 
lar process  be  enacted  in  the  election.  Perhaps  excerpts  from 
a  political  oration  by  Blott  will  make  the  process  most  ap- 
parent: 

"If  you  make  Bloop  the  rejected  father,  and  make  me  the 
new  father-symbol  of  accepted  authority,  I  promise  to 
change  nothing.  I  shall  do  well  by  the  banker  and  industri- 
alist uncles.  Accordingly,  when  you  feel  the  need  of  a  new 
relief,  a  fresh  catharsis,  these  uncles  will  still  be  there,  with 
plenty  of  strength,  and  plenty  of  money  to  hire  a  journalistic 
priesthood.  And  this  priesthood  can  transform  me  from  an 
obeyed  father  into  a  disobeyed  father.  Make  me  your  King 
Diaperus,  and  when  the  time  comes,  you  can  make  me  your 
sacrificial  King  Hirsutus.  I'll  be  your  delegated  scapegoat, 
upon  whose  back  you  can,  by  the  rituals  of  the  vote,  sym- 
bolically load  all  your  ills,  and  drive  me  off  into  the  wilder- 
ness of  Has-Been.  Usher  me  in,  a  New  Year,  by  the  landslide 
that  obscenely  hoots  the  departure  of  Old  Year  Bloop.  But 
you  can  trust  me,  I'll  change  nothing.  The  same  old  ailing 
structure  of  Hobo-i-ugha  will  continue  to  ail.  So  the  time 
will  come  when  you  will  need  relief  again.  And  there  I'll 
be,  all  primed  for  the  hooting.  And  thus,  you  can  always 
stay  in  the  same  place,  throwing  me  out  and  putting  another 
one  like  me  in,  and  leaving  the  uncles  as  they  were;  this  you 
can  do,  again  and  again,  benignly  getting  nowhere,  and 
136 


LITERARY    FORM 

always  feeling  that  you  are  getting  somewhere  if  only  you 

don't  fall  too  far  behind." 

There  are  new  tides  threatening  to  rise  against  the  tradi- 
tional Psychoanalysian  manners.  Groups  have  arisen  who 
insist  that  the  Hirsutus-Diaperus  pattern  is  inadequate  to 
the  needs  of  modern  Hobo-i-ugha.  Other  groups  are  seeking 
solutions  whereby  Diaperus  may  remain  forever  Diaperus, 
with  Hirsutus  split  off  into  a  separate,  correspondingly  per- 
manent role.  Criticism  is  also  being  directed  against  the 
uncles,  whose  one  set  of  policies  has  prevailed  throughout 
the  dramatic  flickerings  of  faction.  Adherents  of  this  school 
say  it  is  bad  enough  for  a  child  to  be  uncertain  of  his  father. 
But  it  is  still  worse  if,  in  addition,  he  has  too  many  uncles. 


!37 


SEMANTIC  AND  POETIC 
MEANING 


THIS  essay  may  be  taken  as  a  rhetorical  defense  of  rhetoric. 
It  is  intended  to  give  support,  sometimes  directly  and  some- 
times indirectly,  to  the  thesis  that  the  ideal  of  a  purely  "neu- 
tral" vocabulary,  free  of  emotional  weightings,  attempts  to 
make  a  totality  out  of  a  fragment,  "till  that  which  suits  a 
part  infects  the  whole." 

The  historian  Toynbee,  I  am  told,  has  laid  stress  upon  the 
period  of  "withdrawal"  undergone  by  founders  of  religious 
structures.  It  is  a  period  of  hesitancy,  brooding,  or  even  rot, 
prior  to  the  formation  of  the  new  certainties  they  will  sub- 
sequently evangelize  and  organize.  Stated  in  secular  terms, 
it  marks  a  transition  from  a  system  of  social  values  grown 
unfit  for  the  situation  they  would  encompass,  to  a  new  order 
of  values  felt,  correctly  or  not,  to  be  a  more  scrupulous  fit 
for  the  situation.  "Circumstances  alter  occasions,"  and  for  the 
altered  occasions  they  would  round  out  a  new  strategy. 

In  the  semantic  ideal,  we  get  an  attenuated  variant  of  this 
"withdrawal"  process.  It  would  build  up  a  technical  mode  of 
analysis  that  gave  us  permanently  and  constantly  a  kind  of 
mitigated  withdrawal,  thereby  converting  a  transitional 
stage  into  an  institution.  Like  the  monastic  orders,  it  would 
"bureaucratize"  a  purgatorial  mood,  turning  a  "state  of 
evanescence"  into  a  fixity  by  giving  it  an  established  routine. 
It  would  prolong  a  moment  into  a  "way  of  life." 
138 


SEMANTIC    AND    POETIC    MEANING 

While  attempting  to  uphold  the  thesis  that  there  is  no 
basic  opposition  between  the  ideals  of  semantic  and  poetic 
naming,  that  they  are  different  rather  than  antithetical  in 
their  ultimate  realistic  aims,  I  do  grant  that  there  is  a  "dia- 
lectical process"  whereby  a  difference  becomes  converted 
into  an  antithesis.  You  have,  for  example,  noted  that  when 
two  opponents  have  been  arguing,  though  the  initial  differ- 
ence in  their  position  may  have  been  slight,  they  tend  under 
the  "dialectical  pressure"  of  their  drama  to  become  eventu- 
ally at  odds  in  everything.  No  matter  what  one  of  them 
happens  to  assert,  the  other  (responding  to  the  genius  of  the 
contest)  takes  violent  exception  to  it — and  vice  versa.  Thus 
similarly  we  find  the  differences  between  "bourgeois"  and 
"proletarian"  treated,  under  dialectical  pressure,  as  an  ab- 
solute antithesis,  until  critics,  accustomed  to  thinking  by 
this  pat  schematization,  become  almost  demoralized  at  the 
suggestion  that  there  may  be  a  "margin  of  overlap"  held  in 
common  between  different  classes.  And  if  a  man  has  at  one 
time  been  engrossed  in  music,  and  at  a  later  time  becomes 
engrossed  in  painting,  he  will  probably  evolve  an  emotional 
economy  whereby  music  and  painting  become  for  him  the 
opposite  of  each  other  (as  in  Odets'  Golden  Boy  violin  and 
prizefight  are  filled  out  as  antitheses,  the  violin  signifying 
home  and  harmony,  the  prizefight  leaving-home  and  com- 
petition). And  likewise  with  the  semantics-poetry  issue, 
where  semantic  meaning,  that  may  be  considered  as  a  partial 
aspect  of  poetic  meaning,  tends  to  become  instead  the  op- 
posite of  poetic  meaning,  so  that  a  mere  graded  series,  com- 
prising a  more-than  and  a  less-than,  changes  instead  into  a 
blunt  battle  between  poetry  and  antipoetry,  or  "poetry  vs. 
science."  Only  by  a  kind  of  "synecdochic  fallacy,"  mistaking 
a  part  for  the  whole,  can  this  opposition  appear  to  exist. 
139 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

1.    THE    SEMANTIC    IDEAL    ILLUSTRATED.    For    OUT    point    of 

departure,  let  us  take  the  address  on  an  envelope: 

M (name) 

(street  and  number) 

(city  or  town) 

(state) 

(nation) 

By  filling  out  those  few  lines,  you  can  effectively  isolate  one 
man  among  two  billion,  quite  as  though  each  individual 
were  identified  by  an  automobile  license,  with  a  record  kept 
in  some  central  bureau,  like  the  Bertillon  measurements  of 
known  criminals. 

Perhaps  we  have  exaggerated  the  case.  The  formula 
wouldn't  work  for  getting  an  advertisement  to  a  mid-African 
chieftain.  Yet  it  can  effectively  isolate  one  of  the  two  billion, 
if  he  happens  to  be  among  the  hundreds  of  millions  available 
through  postal  organization.  The  matter  to  be  emphasized 
is  this:  In  whatever  areas  the  postal  organization  prevails, 
this  brief  formula  generally  serves  to  isolate  the  desired  in- 
dividual. 

The  formula  has  no  orientative  value  in  itself.  It  depends 
for  its  significance  upon  the  establishment  of  a  postal  struc- 
ture, as  a  going  concern.  It  is  like  the  coin  in  a  slot  machine. 
Given  the  machine,  in  good  order,  the  coin  will  "work." 
The  address,  as  a  counter,  works  in  so  far  as  it  indicates  to 
the  postal  authorities  what  kind  of  operation  should  be 
undertaken.  But  it  assumes  an  organization.  Its  meaning, 
then,  involves  the  established  procedures  of  the  mails,  and 
is  in  the  instructions  it  gives  for  the  performance  of  desired 
operations  within  this  going  concern. 
140 


SEMANTIC    AND    POETIC    MEANING 

The  man  who  writes  the  address  on  an  envelope  may 
know  very  little  about  the  concreteness  of  these  operations. 
Likewise,  the  sorter  who  first  tosses  the  letter  into  the  "state" 
or  "nation"  bin  will  not  concretely  envision  the  act  of  final 
delivery,  after  the  letter  has  been  sifted  down  through  vari- 
ous sub-classifications,  until  it  reaches  the  pouch  of  the  mail- 
man on  his  route.  Any  single  worker,  handling  the  letter  in 
its  various  stages  of  transit,  interprets  the  address  as  instruc- 
tions for  a  different  kind  of  operation.  Its  "totality"  is  in 
the  organized  interlocking  of  these  operations  themselves, 
whereby  each  "specialist,"  performing  a  "partial"  act,  yet 
contributes  to  the  performing  of  a  "total"  act,  the  entire  arc 
of  the  letter's  transit,  from  insertion  in  the  mailbox  at  the 
corner  to  delivery  at  the  door. 

This  kind  of  meaning  I  should  call  a  semantic  meaning. 
And  extending  from  that  I  should  state,  as  the  semantic 
ideal,  the  aim  to  evolve  a  vocabulary  that  gives  the  name  and 
address  of  every  event  in  the  universe. 

Such  naming  would  require  the  kind  of  "operational"  test 
put  forward  in  Bridgman's  theory  of  meaning,  which  has 
recently  been  overzealously  advocated  by  Stuart  Chase  in 
his  The  Tyranny  of  Words.1  It  is  also,  I  think,  the  ideal  of 
the  logical  positivists.  Logical  positivism  would  point  to 
events.  It  would  attempt  to  describe  events  after  the  analogy 
of  the  chart  (as  a  map  could  be  said  to  describe  America). 
And  the  significance  of  its  pointing  lies  in  the  instructions 
implicit  in  the  name. 

An  ideal  semantic  definition  of  a  chair  would  be  such 

i  However,  Chase's  book  is  so  much  closer  to  scissor-work  than  to  composition 
that  no  characterization  by  a  summarizing  proposition  is  wholly  adequate.  We 
might,  rather,  classify  the  work  by  reference  to  its  manner,  thus:  "A  rhetorical 
farewell  to  rhetoric — or,  the  tyrannicide  as  tyrant."  And  we  might  attempt  quickly 
to  convey  the  quality  of  his  "revolt"  against  words  (done  in  the  extreme  debunking 
mode)  by  noting  such  chapter  headings  as  "Promenade  with  the  Philosophers," 

141 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
that,  on  the  basis  of  the  definition,  people  knew  what  you 
wanted  when  you  asked  for  one,  a  carpenter  knew  how  to 
make  it,  a  furniture  dealer  knew  how  to  get  it,  etc.  An  ideal 
definition  of  an  electron  is  such  that  the  specialist  knows 
what  to  do  (within  the  limits  of  his  technique  and  equip- 
ment) to  bring  about  the  kind  of  manifestation  called  an 
electron. 

On  the  other  hand,  when  you  have  isolated  your  indi- 
vidual by  the  proper  utilizing  of  the  postal  process,  you  have 
not  at  all  adequately  encompassed  his  "meaning."  He  means 
one  thing  to  his  family,  another  to  his  boss,  another  to  his 
underlings,  another  to  his  creditors,  etc.  All  such  meanings 
are  real  enough,  since  at  every  point  people  act  towards  him 
on  the  basis  of  these  meanings.  And  at  many  points  they 
impinge  upon  purely  semantic  meanings.  His  meaning  for 
his  creditors,  for  instance,  may  be  involved  in  a  credit  report 
from  Dun  and  Bradstreet's.  His  meaning  to  his  underlings 
may  lead  them  to  adopt  certain  proportions  of  familiarity 
and  aloofness.  His  wife  may  have  found  out  that,  as  the  case 
may  be,  she  can  get  him  to  buy  a  new  refrigerator  either  by 
saying  that  the  Joneses  already  have  one  or  that  the  Joneses 
do  not  have  one.  His  boss  may  have  decided  that  he  is  espe- 
cially good  at  certain  kinds  of  business,  and  especially  poor 
at  certain  other  kinds  of  business.  And  much  of  this  can 
actually  be  "tested,"  though  in  a  less  organized  way  than 
would  apply  to  the  instructions  for  the  filling  of  a  medical 
prescription. 

But  though  this  kind  of  meaning  impinges  upon  semantic 
meaning,  it  cannot  be  encompassed  with  perfect  fidelity  to 
the  semantic  ideal.  You  can't  give  the  names  and  addresses 


"Swing  Your  Partners  with  the  Economists,"  and  "Round  and  Round  with  the 
Judges." 

142 


SEMANTIC    AND    POETIC    MEANING 
of  all  these  subtle  significances.  There  is  no  organization 
like  the  postal  service  or  the  laboratory  or  the  factory,  with 
a  set  of  patly  interlocking  functions.  This  kind  of  meaning 
I  shall  call  poetic  meaning. 

Seen  from  this  angle,  poetic  meaning  and  semantic  mean- 
ing would  not  be  absolute  antitheses.  Poetic  meaning  would 
not  be  the  opposite  of  semantic  meaning.  It  would  be  dif- 
ferent from,  or  other  than,  or  more  than,  or  even,  if  you 
want,  less  than,  but  not  antithetical  to. 

2.  poetic  meaning.  Semantic  meaning  would  be  a  way  of 
pointing  to  a  chair.  It  would  say,  "That  thing  is  a  chair." 
And  to  a  carpenter  it  would  imply,  in  keeping  with  his  or- 
ganized technique,  "By  doing  such  and  such,  I  can  produce 
this  thing,  a  chair."  Poetic  pointing,  on  the  other  hand, 
might  take  many  courses,  roughly  summed  up  in  these 
three  sentences: 

"Faugh!  a  chair!" 

"Ho,  ho!  a  chair!" 

"Might  I  call  your  attention  to  yon  chair?" 

Of  these,  the  third  style  of  pointing  obviously  comes  nearest 
to  the  semantic  ideal.  The  first  two,  most  strongly  weighted 
with  emotional  values,  with  attitudes,  would  be  farther  off. 
Meaning  there  would  unquestionably  be,  since  an  attitude 
contains  an  implicit  program  of  action.  An  attitude  may  be 
reasonable  or  unreasonable;  it  may  contain  an  adequate 
meaning  or  an  inadequate  meaning — but  in  either  case,  it 
would  contain  a  meaning. 

In  aesthetics,  you  find  the  word  "art"  used  indetermi- 
nately in  two  ways.  Sometimes  the  thinker  appears  to  mean 
"art,  any  art,  all  art,"  and  at  other  times,  "good  art."  And 
143 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

similarly,  in  theories  of  meaning,  the  concept  sometimes 
seems  to  imply  "any  meaning,  whether  right  or  wrong, 
sound  or  fallacious,"  and  at  other  times  "correct  meaning." 

Meaning,  when  used  in  the  sense  of  "correct  meaning," 
leads  to  an  either-or  approach.  "New  York  City  is  in  Iowa" 
could,  by  the  either-or  principles,  promptly  be  ruled  out. 
The  either-or  test  would  represent  the  semantic  ideal.  But 
I  am  sorry  to  have  to  admit  that,  by  the  poetic  ideal,  "New 
York  City  is  in  Iowa"  could  not  be  ruled  out. 

Has  one  ever  stood,  for  instance,  in  some  little  outlying 
town,  on  the  edge  of  the  wilderness,  and  watched  a  train 
go  by?  Has  one  perhaps  suddenly  felt  that  the  train,  and  its 
tracks,  were  a  kind  of  arm  of  the  city,  reaching  out  across 
the  continent,  quite  as  though  it  were  simply  Broadway  it- 
self extended?  It  is  in  such  a  sense  that  New  York  City  can 
be  found  all  over  the  country — and  I  submit  that  one  would 
miss  very  important  meanings,  meanings  that  have  much 
to  do  with  the  conduct  of  our  inhabitants,  were  he  to  pro- 
ceed here  by  the  either-or  kind  of  test. 

"New  York  City  is  in  Iowa"  is  "poetically"  true.  As  a 
metaphor,  it  provides  valid  insight.  To  have  ruled  it  out, 
by  strict  semantic  authority,  would  have  been  vandalism. 

"Poetic"  meanings,  then,  cannot  be  disposed  of  on  the 
true-or-false  basis.  Rather,  they  are  related  to  one  another 
like  a  set  of  concentric  circles,  of  wider  and  wider  scope. 
Those  of  wider  diameter  do  not  categorically  eliminate  those 
of  narrower  diameter.  There  is,  rather,  a  progressive  en- 
compassment.  To  say  that  "man  is  a  vegetable"  contains 
much  soundness.  There  is  a  vegetative  level  of  human  re- 
sponse, and  one  can  find  out  much  about  it  (much  more,  in 
fact,  than  we  now  know,  as  more  is  to  be  learned,  for  instance, 
about  the  ways  in  which  the  biologic  organism  responds  to 
144 


SEMANTIC    AND    POETIC    MEANING 

seasonal  periodicity,  changes  in  solar  radiation,  and  the  like). 
Again:  to  say  that  "man  is  an  ant"  does  not  "refute"  the 
vegetational  metaphor.  The  ant  may  be  "vegetation-plus," 
since  it  too  vegetates.  And  to  say  that  "man  is  a  commu- 
nicant" is  more  comprehensive  still,  including  the  other 
metaphors  but  not  abolishing  them.  These  are  examples  of 
progressive  encompassment  that  does  not  admit  of  mutual 
exclusion — and  they  are  examples  of  what  we  take  poetic 
characterizations  to  do. 

3.    A  DIFFERENT  MODE  PROPOSED  FOR  THE  TEST  OF  POETIC 

meaning.  Hence,  for  the  validity  of  "poetic"  meanings,  I 
should  suggest  that  the  "test"  cannot  be  a  formal  one,  as 
with  the  diagrams  for  testing  a  syllogism.  Poetic  charac- 
terizations do  not  categorically  exclude  each  other  in  the 
either-true-or-false  sense,  any  more  than  the  characteriza- 
tions "honest"  or  "tall"  could  categorically  exclude  the 
characterizations  "learned,"  "unlearned,"  or  "thin."  The 
test  of  a  metaphor's  validity  is  of  a  much  more  arduous 
sort,  requiring  nothing  less  than  the  filling-out,  by  concrete 
body,  of  the  characterizations  which  one  would  test.  There 
is  no  formal  procedure,  for  example,  for  choosing  among 
the  three  metaphors: 

man  a  vegetable 

man  an  ant 

man  a  communicant. 

One  can  simply  ask  that  the  contestants  advocate  their  choice 
by  filling  it  out.  That  is:  let  each  say  all  he  can  by  way  of 
giving  body  to  the  perspective  inherent  in  his  choice.  Let 
each  show  the  scope,  range,  relevancy,  accuracy,  applica- 
bility of  the  perspective,  or  metaphor,  he  would  advocate. 
145 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
And  only  after  each  has  been  so  filled  out,  can  we  evaluate 
among  them.  Thus,  though  there  be  no  formal  basis  for  a 
choice  among  the  three  metaphors  offered  above,  the  test 
of  filling-out,  of  embodiment  in  concrete  application,  would, 
I  think,  demonstrate  the  greater  value  of  the  third  for  in- 
terpretative purposes.  One  could  do  more  with  it.  He  could 
integrate  wider  areas  of  human  relationship.  Hence,  as  so 
tested,  it  would  be  assigned  a  higher  place  than  the  other 
two  in  a  hierarchy  of  possible  perspectives.  No  perspective 
could  be  formally  ruled  out,  but  one  could  be  shown  to 
include  another. 

Such  testing  would  also  involve  more  than  merely  exposi- 
tory meaning,  of  the  "graph"  sort.  The  third  metaphor  would 
likewise  be  richer  in  hortatory  significance.  It  would  not 
merely  give  the  names  and  addresses  of  events,  but  would 
also  suggest  exhortations  for  the  promotion  of  better  names 
and  addresses.  The  metaphor  would  thus  serve  not  only  a 
descriptive  function,  but  also  a  normative  function. 

4.    THE  MORAL  ASPECT  OF   POETIC  MEANING.   Much  of  the 

partial  descriptive  matter  now  developed,  as  in  the  be- 
haviorists'  experiments  with  conditioning,  would  still  be 
usable.  But  instead  of  being  taken  as  the  description  of 
man's  essence,  it  would  be  considered  simply  for  its  value 
in  revealing  certain  important  things  to  look  out  for  in  any 
attempt  to  plead  for  a  more  satisfactory  communicative  or 
cooperative  structure.  Thus,  if  the  data  on  conditioning 
were  presented  as  an  admonishment  about  people,  rather 
than  as  the  "low  down"  on  them,  the  interpretative  enter- 
prise would  be  restored  to  its  proper  moralistic  basis,  in 
contrast  with  the  "neutral"  or  "non-moral"  ideals  of  mean- 
ing implicit  in  the  attempt  to  get  merely  descriptive  labels 
146 


SEMANTIC    AND    POETIC    MEANING 

(an  attempt  that,  if  it  succeeded,  would  find  its  very  success 
a  mockery,  for  it  would  describe  social  events  in  a  way  that 
led  to  no  moral  exhortation,  and  would  then  have  simply 
to  let  moral  purposes  creep  in  as  contraband,  a  kind  of  irra- 
tional weakness,  or  benign  error). 

In  general,  primitive  magic  tended  to  transfer  an  ani- 
mistic perspective  to  the  charting  of  physical  events.  And 
positivistic  science,  by  antithesis,  leads  to  an  opposite  ideal, 
the  transferring  of  a  physicalist  perspective  to  human  events. 
Each  is  the  migration  of  a  metaphor  in  ways  that  require 
correctives,  though  I  am  willing  to  admit  that,  of  the  two 
excesses,  I  consider  the  savages'  tendency  to  consider  natural 
forces  as  spirits  less  deceptive  than  the  positivists'  tendency 
to  consider  people  after  the  analogy  of  physical  behavior. 
Semantic  ideals  of  meaning  could  not  possibly  provide  a 
proper  vocabulary  in  which  to  consider  the  complexities  of 
moral  growth,  because  there  is  here  no  pragmatic  routine 
to  be  "learned  by  repetition,"  as  with  proficiency  in  a  trade. 
There  is  nothing  to  be  "practiced"  in  the  sense  that  one 
may  practice  tennis  or  carpentry.  Qualitative  growth  cannot 
be  "practiced"  any  more  than  biological  growth  can  be 
"practiced."  Given  the  faculty  of  speech,  one  can  by  prac- 
tice master  a  new  language.  But  there  is  no  way  for  a  dumb 
animal  to  acquire  this  faculty  itself  by  practice.  There  is 
no  "operation"  for  seeing  a  joke — though  there  may  be 
operations  for  removing  obstructions  to  the  seeing  of  the 
joke. 

The  difference  between  the  semantic  ideal  and  the  poetic 
ideal  of  moralistic  interpretation  would,  I  think,  get  down 
to  this: 

The  semantic  ideal  would  attempt  to  get  a  description 
147 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
by  the  elimination  of  attitude.  The  poetic  ideal  would  at- 
tempt to  attain  a  full  moral  act  by  attaining  a  perspective 
atop  all  the  conflicts  of  attitude. 

The  first  would  try  to  cut  away,  to  abstract,  all  emotional 
factors  that  complicate  the  objective  clarity  of  meaning. 
The  second  would  try  to  derive  its  vision  from  the  maxi- 
mum heaping  up  of  all  these  emotional  factors,  playing  them 
off  against  one  another,  inviting  them  to  reinforce  and  con- 
tradict one  another,  and  seeking  to  make  this  active  partici- 
pation itself  a  major  ingredient  of  the  vision. 

This  "poetic"  meaning  would  contain  much  more  than 
pragmatic,  positivistic,  futuristic  values.  A  fully  moral  act 
is  basically  an  act  noiv.  It  is  not  promissory,  it  is  not  "invest- 
ment for  future  profit."  It  is  not  the  learning  of  a  technique 
in  the  hopes  this  technique,  when  learned,  will  enable  one 
to  make  wheels  go  or  to  add  a  few  more  metallurgical  alloys 
to  the  500,000  or  so  that  "business"  and  "industry"  have 
not  yet  found  "use"  for.  A  fully  moral  act  is  a  total  asser- 
tion at  the  time  of  the  assertion.  Among  other  things,  it  has 
a  style — and  this  style  is  an  integral  aspect  of  its  meaning. 
If  it  points  to  the  chair  by  saying  "faugh,"  it  pledges  itself 
to  one  program — to  quite  another  if  it  adopts  the  style  of 
"ho,  ho"  or  "might  I?"  The  style  selected  will  mold  the 
character  of  the  selector.  Each  brand  of  imagery  contains 
in  germ  its  own  "logic."  If  he  says  "faugh"  and  deeply 
means  it,  he  thereby  vows  himself  to  "faugh";  he  must  go 
through  the  faughness,  until  he  has  either  persisted  by  the 
buttressing  of  his  choice  or  has  burnt  it  out. 

But  I  seem  to  be  contradicting  myself,  since  I  called  a 
stylistic  act  an  act  now,  whereas  I  have  been  talking  about 
its  future  implications.  For  there  is  a  sense  in  which  every 
act  involves  a  future — but  within  this  generalization  there 
148 


SEMANTIC    AND    POETIC    MEANING 

is  a  distinction.  The  distinction  may  be  suggested  in  this 
way:  To  name  something  in  the  style  of  "faugh"  is  sym- 
bolically to  act  out  a  present  attitude  towards  it,  in  the 
naming.  To  label  it  "Q27i-Vii"  is  to  withhold  my  act  as  a 
total  present  expression.  The  value  of  such  naming  will  not 
reside  so  much  in  the  rewards  at  the  time,  but  in  the  "uses" 
I  may  subsequently  put  my  nomenclature  to.  The  name 
"Q27i-Vii,"  for  instance,  may  be  much  more  serviceable  as 
tested  by  some  actuarial  requirement  or  some  problem  in 
traffic  regulation.  To  call  a  man  a  son-of-a-bitch  is  sym- 
bolically to  make  a  complete  assertion  of  attitude  towards 
him  now;  it  is  itself  a  culmination,  a  "total  summing  up." 
To  call  him  "0271-Vii,"  on  the  other  hand,  is  to  put  the 
value  of  the  name  in  its  future  alone.  It  depends  solely  upon 
what  you  do  with  it,  "in  our  next."  In  this  sense  it  is  relying 
upon  the  "promissory,"  whether  mistaken  or  real. 

5.  "beyond  good  and  evil."  The  semantic  ideal  envisions 
a  vocabulary  that  avoids  drama.  The  poetic  ideal  envisions 
a  vocabulary  that  goes  through  drama.  In  their  ideal  com- 
pletion, they  have  a  certain  superficial  resemblance,  in  that 
both  are  "beyond  good  and  evil."  But  the  first  seeks  to  attain 
this  end  by  the  programmatic  elimination  of  a  weighted 
vocabulary  at  the  start  (the  neutralization  of  names  con- 
taining attitudes,  emotional  predisposition);  and  the  second 
would  attain  the  same  end  by  exposure  to  the  maximum 
profusion  of  weightings.  The  first  would  be  aside  from  the 
battle,  stressing  the  role  of  the  observer,  whose  observations 
it  is  hoped  will  define  situations  with  sufficient  realistic  ac- 
curacy to  prepare  an  adequate  chart  for  action;  the  second 
would  contend,  by  implication,  that  true  knowledge  can 
only  be  attained  through  the  battle,  stressing  the  role  of  the 
participant,  who  in  the  course  of  his  participation,  it  is 
149 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

hoped,  will  define  situations  with  sufficient  realistic  accuracy 

to  prepare  an  image  for  action. 

The  poetic  ideal  being  obviously  aesthetic,  we  could  in 
contrast  call  the  semantic  ideal  "anesthetic";  for  though  aes- 
thetic, in  its  etymological  origins,  derives  from  a  word  mean- 
ing "to  perceive,"  it  has  come  to  include  the  idea  of  emo- 
tionality in  the  perception,  whereas  the  semantic  ideal  would 
aim  at  perception  without  feeling.  Perhaps,  in  view  of  the 
etymological  difficulties,  we  should  sacrifice  our  pun  on 
aesthetic-anesthetic,  and  instead  offer  as  the  semantic  coun- 
terpart of  aesthetic,  "analgesic." 

We  should  also  point  out  that,  although  the  semantic  ideal 
would  eliminate  the  attitudinal  ingredient  from  its  vocabu- 
lary (seeking  a  vocabulary  for  events  equally  valid  for  use 
by  friends,  enemies,  and  the  indifferent)  the  ideal  is  itself  an 
attitude,  hence  never  wholly  attainable,  since  it  could  be 
complete  only  by  the  abolition  of  itself.  To  the  logical  posi 
tivist,  logical  positivism  is  a  "good"  term,  otherwise  he 
would  not  attempt  to  advocate  it  by  filling  it  out  in  all  its 
ramifications.  This  observation  spoils  the  symmetry  of  our 
case,  in  suggesting  that  semantics  itself  may  be  considered 
as  an  attenuated  form  of  poetry,  that  "Q27i-Vii"  may  itself 
be  a  gesture,  secretly  saying  in  a  very  mild  way  what  "fiend" 
or  "darling"  says  eagerly. 

It  would  seem  fair  to  take  the  symbols  of  Russell  and 
Whitehead's  Principia  Mathematica,  or  the  formulae  of 
Carnap,  as  the  nearest  approach  we  have  to  the  vocabulary 
of  the  semantic  ideal.  Or  one  may  feel  that  we  are  stacking 
the  cards  here.  Perhaps  the  semantic  ideal  does  not  show 
up  at  its  best  in  ultimate  over-all  theories,  but  in  the  specific 
vocabularies  of  technological  specializations.  The  vocabu- 
lary of  chemistry,  for  instance,  may  be  much  the  same  for 
ir.o 


SEMANTIC  AND  POETIC  MEANING 
communist,  fascist,  and  liberal.  A  theory  of  ballistics  may  be 
couched  in  one  set  of  symbols,  whether  it  is  to  be  studied 
by  progressives  or  reactionaries.  A  topographical  survey  may 
be  as  "neutral"  as  the  situation  it  surveys;  it  needs  only  to 
be  accurate,  and  the  soundings  that  the  Japs  are  said  to  be 
taking  of  our  Western  coast  line  aim  at  precisely  the  same 
kind  of  description  as  would  the  soundings  taken  by  strate- 
gists of  the  U.S.  navy. 

So,  for  our  purposes,  you  may,  as  you  prefer,  consider 
the  semantic  ideal  most  fully  embodied  in  either  the  vo- 
cabulary of  any  specific  technique,  or  in  the  coordinating 
theory  designed  to  make  a  body  of  generalizations  that 
would  mutatis  mutandis  cover  all  the  specific  techniques. 
In  any  case,  even  if  you  do  prefer  to  insist  that  the  vocabu- 
laries of  the  physical  sciences  represent  the  semantic  ideal 
at  its  best,  you  must  concede  that  it  is  the  hope  of  the 
semanticist  to  build  a  vocabulary  for  the  discussion  of  hu- 
man, or  social,  events  after  the  same  model.  A  vocabulary 
that  does  not  judge,  but  describes  or  places,  as  the  psycholo- 
gists' terminology  is  designed  simply  to  name  how  things 
are,  regardless  of  what  you  want  them  to  be. 

The  coyness  of  the  semantic  strategy  might  be  conveyed 
like  this:  A  theory  of  ballistics,  as  a  physical  science,  merely 
tells  you  how  to  shoot  ammunition.  As  such,  it  is  "neutral," 
capable  of  being  taken  over  by  friends  or  enemies.  If,  how- 
ever, you  extended  the  same  kind  of  vocabulary  to  describe 
the  situations  of  friends  and  enemies  also,  their  enmity  like- 
wise would  be  neutralized.  Leave  the  process  half  completed, 
develop  neutrality  in  the  vocabulary  of  the  physical  sciences 
while  leaving  prejudice  in  the  vocabulary  of  social  relations, 
and  technology  as  a  power  becomes  an  ominous  power.  But 

extend  the  technological  ideal  throughout  the  social  sciences 

iS1 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

as  well,  and  technological  power  becomes  equated  with  good 
power.  If  this  account  of  the  semantic  hope  is  fair,  it  would 
justify  us  in  saying  that  the  over-all  semantic  theories,  rather 
than  the  vocabularies  of  specific  scientific  disciplines,  are  to 
be  taken  as  representative  of  the  ultimate  semantic  ideal.2 

6.  letting  in  and  keeping  out.  Plays  like  Shakespeare's 
Tempest  or  Aeschylus'  Eumenides  would  represent  the 
ideal  poetic  vocabulary.  Lucretius'  De  Rerum  Natura  is 
a  mixture  of  both  ideals.  Wedded,  as  a  materialist  ("philo- 
sophical scientist")  to  the  aim  of  analgesia,  Lucretius  none- 
theless builds  up  extremely  emotional  moments.  For  exam- 
ple, in  trying  to  make  us  feel  the  great  relief  that  would 
come  to  us  from  the  abolition  of  the  gods,  Lucretius  exposes 
himself  to  the  full  rigors  of  religious  awe.  He  must  make 
us  realize  aive,  in  the  contemplation  of  heavenly  distances 
and  storms,  in  order  to  make  us  realize  the  full  measure  of 
the  relief  that  would  follow  from  the  dissolution  of  this 

It 

awe  (by  dissolving  the  gods  which  have  become  the  symbols, 
the  "charismatic  vessels,"  of  it).  So  he  becomes  somewhat 
an  advocate  against  his  own  thesis.  For  in  trying  to  build 
up  a  full  realization  of  the  awe,  in  order  to  build  up  a  full 
realization  of  the  freedom  that  would  come  of  banishing 
this  awe,  he  leaves  us  with  an  unforgettable  image  of  the 

2  Enough  has  been  said,  incidentally,  to  suggest  that  the  over-all  semantic  chart 
is  itself  the  riding  of  a  metaphor,  quite  as  the  poet  may  carry  some  underlying 
metaphor,  as  a  theme  with  variations,  throughout  his  sonnet  or  his  play.  In  log- 
ical positivism,  according  to  one  expositor  (Julius  Rudolph  Weinberg:  An  Exam- 
ination of  Logical  Positivism),  "propositions  are  pictures  of  possible  empirical 
facts."  Thus  the  controversy  does  not  resolve  itself  into  an  opposition  between 
poetry  as  metaphorical  and  semantics  as  nonmetaphorical.  Every  perspective  re- 
quires a  metaphor,  implicit  or  explicit,  for  its  organizational  base  (as  I  tried  to 
make  clear  in  the  section  on  "Perspective  by  Incongruity"  in  Permanence  and 
Change) — and  semantics  as  a  perspective  cannot  skirt  this  necessity.  This  point 
may  well  be  borne  in  mind  at  those  places  where  I  would  ask  to  have  the  semantic 
perspective  encompassed  within  the  poetic  perspective  (considering  semantics  as  a 
kind  of  special  "poetic  school"  that  would  seek  to  erect  its  partial  truth  into  a 
whole  truth). 

1*2 


SEMANTIC  AND  POETIC  MEANING 
awe  itself.  We  are  left  with  the  suspicion  that  he  has  never 
really  freed  himself  of  awe,  but  that  he  has  been  fighting 
valiantly  to  repress  it  (thereby  indirectly  reinforcing  our 
sense  of  its  pressure).  He  has  tried,  by  the  magic  of  his  in- 
cantations, to  get  analgesia  (perception  without  emotion); 
but  he  builds  up,  aesthetically,  the  motivation  behind  his 
anesthetic  incantatory  enterprise,  thereby  making  us  tremble 
all  over  again  at  the  lines  in  which  he  reconstructs  the  sub- 
limity of  natural  vastnesses  and  power,  a  vision  reinforced 
by  the  tonal  suggestiveness  of  his  sentences  (that  contribute 
in  their  musicality  to  violate  the  genius  of  "Qgyi-Vii"). 

The  pure  semantic  ideal,  on  the  other  hand,  would  have 
avoided  this  strategic  difficulty  at  the  start.  For  one  thing, 
it  would  never  discuss  awe  in  words  that,  by  their  incanta- 
tory power,  themselves  suggested  awe.  It  would  spare  itself 
Lucretius'  losing  task  of  refutation  by  never  once  giving 
aesthetic  embodiment  to  the  sense  of  awe.  By  never  letting 
awe  in,  it  would  skirt  the  embarrassing  problem  of  trying 
to  get  it  out  again.  From  the  very  start,  its  mode  of  naming 
"simply  wouldn't  give  awe  a  chance."  This  feeling  might 
possibly  be  lying  there,  in  the  background,  as  a  motive  in 
the  semanticist's  enterprise,  but  only  by  highly  dubious  de- 
tective work,  by  modes  of  metaphorical  analysis  that  the 
semanticist  himself  would  question  as  science,  could  you  dis- 
close such  a  motive.  What  the  semanticist  would  put  out, 
he  never  lets  in. 

7.  aeschylus'  eumenides  to  illustrate  full  poetic 
meaning.  In  the  Eumenides,  I  think,  we  see  the  poetic 
method  in  its  completeness.  Where  the  semanticist  does  not 
fight,  and  Lucretius  fights  while  stacking  the  odds  against 
himself,  Aeschylus  completely  gives  himself  to  aesthetic  ex- 
posure, and  surmounts  the  risk.  Here,  to  be  sure,  is  the  ideal 
153 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
of  analgesia — but  it  appears  at  the  end  of  a  most  painful 
trilogy,  devoted  to  an  aesthetic  reconstruction  of  struggle, 
horror,  and  the  tortures  of  remorse.  And  to  comfort  us,  the 
dramatist  undertakes  nothing  less  than  the  conversion  of  the 
gods  themselves. 

In  this  respect  the  play  parallels  explicitly  the  change  we 
get  as  we  turn  from  the  wrathful  Jehovah  of  the  Old  Testa- 
ment (a  warrior  god,  like  warrior  gods  partaking  of  the  rage 
that  is  in  the  Grecian  Furies  and  the  Norse  Valkyries)  to 
the  Living  Logos  of  the  New  Testament.  Here  is  a  ritual 
for  the  conversion  of  the  Furies  from  a  malign  identity 
(named  the  Erinyes,  from  erinyo,  to  be  wrathful  towards) 
to  a  benign  identity  (named  the  Eumenides,  from  eumeneo, 
to  feel  kindly  towards).  Henceforth,  we  are  informed,  the 
emphasis  of  their  function  will  be  radically  altered.  No 
longer  will  they  devote  their  ingenuity  and  enterprise  to 
the  punishment  of  evil,  but  the  stress  henceforth  will  be 
upon  the  protection  of  good.  Logically,  the  two  functions 
are  certainly  not  at  odds,  but  psychologically  they  are  in 
far  different  realms.  Fittingly,  for  our  analysis,  the  Furies 
are  characterized  as  older  gods;  and  their  conversion  from 
malign  to  benign  emphasis  was  done  under  the  persuasion 
of  such  younger  gods  as  Apollo  and  Athena.  (Incidentally, 
I  am  indebted,  for  the  form  of  this  thought,  to  John  Crowe 
Ransom's  God  Without  Thunder,  a  work  that  has  not  gen- 
erally been  given  the  recognition  it  deserves.  Unfortunately, 
I  also  have  a  responsibility  to  bear  in  this  matter,  as  I  was 
assigned  God  Without  Thunder  for  review,  but  became  so 
tangled  in  various  ramifications  of  the  critic's  thesis  that  my 
review  was  never  finished.  In  particular,  as  I  see  it  now,  I 
was  struggling  between  a  desire  to  salute  his  basic  observa- 
154 


SEMANTIC  AND  POETIC  MEANING 
tion  and  a  muddled  disagreement  with  the  uses  he  made 
of  it.  In  any  case,  the  incident  has  been  on  my  conscience, 
for  works  of  such  incision  are  too  rare  for  us  to  afford  their 
neglect,  and  I  shall  feel  better  in  so  far  as  I  have  here  be- 
latedly made  amends.) 

What  went  on,  in  this  play?  Recently  I  caught  a  glimpse, 
or  at  least  thought  I  caught  a  glimpse,  of  the  exhilaration  that 
must  have  lifted  up  the  Athenian  audience  when  it  first  felt 
the  medicinal  action  of  this  ritual.  On  the  personal  plane,  we 
have  the  redemption  of  Orestes,  with  whose  sufferings  the  au- 
dience had  presumably  been  profoundly  identified,  so  that 
they  would  also  profoundly  take  part  in  his  release.  On  the 
religious  plane,  this  personal  redemption  is  contrived  by 
nothing  less  important  than  a  reordering  of  divinity  itself,  as 
the  persecutional  gods  of  wrath  relinquish  their  torture  of 
Orestes  only  after  they  have  been  persuaded  to  change  their 
very  office,  taking  a  new  temple  in  Athens  where,  under- 
ground, they  will  zealously  and  jealously  do  well  by  Athe- 
nian virtue,  if  any.  And  to  round  out  the  pattern  for  this  polis- 
minded  people  (one  of  the  names  for  Zeus  was  Zeus  Agoraios, 
Zeus  the  forensic)  Orestes'  restoration  from  division  to  unity 
is  the  occasion  for  the  solemnizing  of  a  pact  between  Athens 
and  Argos.  When  all  this  had  been  put  together  (the  personal, 
the  religious,  and  the  social — while  the  quick  convergence 
towards  the  close  must  have  been  breath-taking),  there  is  one 
final  stroke  still  to  be  delivered: 

Attendants.     Then  come,  ye  dread  powers,  kind  and 
faithful  to  Athens,  nor  waken  to  wrath; 
Come  hither,  be  cheered  by  the  flame,  pine- 
consuming,  that  lightens  your  path. 

155 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

Herald.  Shout,  ye  folk,  a  new  age  hath  begun! 

Attendants.     Torch-illumined  libations  henceforward 
the  people  of  Pallas  shall  bring 
To  your  dwelling — so  Fate  hath  made  compact 
with  Zeus  the  Olympian  King. 
Herald.  Shout,  ye  people,  the  chanting  is  done! 

"A  new  age!"  Thus  had  the  cornerstone  been  grandilo- 
quently laid  for  an  ancient  structure  of  "modernity."  May 
one  not  also  discern  even  a  certain  playwright's  cunning 
here?  For  is  not  the  final  exhortation  of  the  Herald  an  in- 
vitation to  let  the  stage  flow  over  into  the  audience,  making 
participation  between  actors  and  audience  complete,  as 
they  are  asked  to  weld  their  shout  of  approval  for  the  play 
with  a  shout  that  has  meaning  within  the  play?  Could  they 
know  quite  what  their  applause  would  signify:  whether  it 
was  applause  for  Aeschylus,  or  stage  applause,  or  applause 
for  the  slogan  that  so  deftly  put  the  coming  era  of  enlighten- 
ment under  good  auspices,  thereby  "filling  a  civic  need"? 
Thomas  Mann,  in  his  letter  to  the  official  of  Bonn  Univer- 
sity, who  had  notified  him  of  the  retraction  of  his  honorary 
degree,  begins  by  taking  up  this  matter — but  before  he  has 
finished,  the  issue  has  been  subtly  transformed  into  some- 
thing of  much  broader  implications.  It  is  hard  to  remember, 
in  retrospect,  just  when  we  shifted  from  a  point  of  contro- 
versy between  Mann  and  the  subservient  official  to  a  dis- 
cussion of  cultural  trends  in  their  most  sweeping  aspects. 
Such  are  the  persuasive  ambiguities  of  identification.  And 
might  we  note  something  similar,  as  we  cannot  tell  whether 
the  shout  is  within  the  play,  for  the  play,  for  Athens  or 
for  Aeschylus,  for  the  tactics  of  the  ritualistic  compliment 
whereby  the  "new  age"  is  evangelically  announced,  or  for 
156 


SEMANTIC  AND  POETIC  MEANING 
the  "new  age"  itself?  Such  complexity  is  what  I  glimpsed, 
or  thought  I  glimpsed,  when  this  firm  architecture  of  action 
was  first  unveiled  before  the  Athenian  audience.  The  play 
itself  had  offered  its  audience  ample  grounds  to  shout — and 
in  its  closing  line  it  gives  them  explicitly  a  cue  to  shout. 

8.  "through"  and  "around."  The  particular  "curve"  of 
Aeschylus'  development  is  to  be  caught  perhaps  as  we  con- 
trast the  Orestes  trilogy  with  an  earlier  drama,  The  Persae, 
a  "factional"  drama  where  the  crime  is  committed  by  "the 
enemy,"  the  foreigner  Xerxes,  in  contrast  with  the  later 
work  in  the  mode  of  "universal"  tragedy,  where  the  crime 
is  committed  by  Everyman. 

But,  like  or  dislike  this  whole  mode  of  assuagement,  as 
you  prefer:  the  important  point  to  be  stressed  for  our  pur- 
poses is  that  it  is  accomplished  by  going  through  drama,  not 
by  going  around  drama,  or  perhaps  more  accurately,  fore- 
stalling drama.  Similarly  in  Socrates,  both  the  man  and 
the  protagonist  formalized  by  Plato,  there  is  a  "dialecti- 
cal" approach  (through  the  dramas  of  conflict)  to  the  ulti- 
mate philosophic  vision.  With  Aristotle,  however,  you  move 
towards  something  different.  Here  there  is  somewhat  the 
tendency  "to  take  up  where  Plato  left  off,"  as  though  Plato 
were  still  living  and  were  making  a  definitive  revision  of 
his  own  first  draft.  Aristotle's  Rhetoric  and  Poetics  are  evi- 
dence that  he  still  retained  a  strong  appreciation  of  the 
dramatic  experience.  But  the  risk  of  attenuation,  success- 
fully weathered  by  him,  becomes  progressively  greater  as  we 
move  towards  disciples  who  would,  in  turn,  "take  up  where 
Aristotle  left  off."  Such  development  operates  to  perfection 
in  the  quantitative  realm,  as  in  the  successive  improvements 
made  atop  a  mechanical  invention.  But  one  may  question 
whether  it  applies  to  the  qualitative  realm,  as  with  some 
157 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

recent  young  composers  who,  impressed  with  the  tonal  in- 
ventions of  Beethoven's  last  quartets,  would  attempt  simply 
to  "begin"  where  he  had  ended,  as  though  there  could  be 
handed  to  them,  on  a  platter,  the  imaginative  grasp  of  this 
ultimate  period,  which  Beethoven  himself  earned  by  all 
that  had  gone  before  it.  They  tend,  of  course,  simply  to 
"project"  his  last  style  with  efficiency  into  a  mannerism, 
quite  as  Western  borrowers  of  Chinese  or  African  art  tend 
to  get  the  shell  without  the  egg,  or  as  a  child  will  "imitate" 
a  workman  by  merely  making  the  same  kind  of  noise. 

Now,  there  is  a  crucial  difference  between  the  peace  of  a 
warrior  who  lays  down  his  arms  (Aeschylus  wanted  to  be 
remembered,  not  as  a  poet,  but  as  a  soldier),  and  the  peace 
of  those  who  are  innocent  of  war  (innocence  untried  being 
like  snow  fallen  in  the  night;  let  us  not  praise  it  for  not 
melting  until  the  sun  has  been  full  upon  it).  And  the  se- 
mantic ideal,  I  submit,  would  attempt  to  give  us  the  final 
rewards  of  V ersbhnung,  of  atonement,  before  we  had  ever 
gone  through  the  conflicts  by  which  alone  we  could  properly 
"earn"  it. 

No,  we  are  here  being  too  thorough.  Let  us  revise  the 
fable  in  this  wise:  Men,  out  of  conflict,  evolve  projects  for 
atonement,  Versohnung,  assuagement.  They  hand  these  on 
to  others.  And  the  heirs  must  either  make  these  structures 
of  atonement  the  basis  of  a  new  conflict,  or  be  emptied. 
Much  of  the  best  in  thought  is  evolved  to  teach  us  how  to 
die  well;  whereupon  it  is  studied  and  built  upon  by  those 
who  have  never  lived  well.  Either  anesthesia  is  earned  by 
aesthesia,  or  it  is  empty.  When  philosophy  advances  beyond 
the  quality  of  Lucretius,  who  builds  up  the  fear  as  well  as 
the  antidote,  it  approaches  inanition. 
158. 


SEMANTIC    AND    POETIC    MEANING 

The  best  thing  to  be  said  in  favor  of  the  semantic  ideal 
is  that  it  is  a  fraud:  one  may  believe  in  it  because  it  is 
impossible.  Because  poetry  has  been  so  arrantly  misused, 
in  the  sophistries  of  the  press  and  of  political  demagogues, 
there  is  apparent  justification  for  the  attempt  to  eliminate 
it.  But  one  could  with  as  much  logic  abolish  printing  itself, 
since  printing  has  been  misused.  To  paraphrase  Mallarme: 
semantics  would  make  us  Promethean  inventors,  minus  the 
vulture  ("egaux  de  Promethee  a  qui  manque  un  vautour"). 
A  comprehensive  vocabulary,  for  social  purposes,  will 
persistently  outrage  the  norms  of  the  semantic  ideal.  It  will 
not  be  unweighted;  rather,  it  will  have  a  maximum  com- 
plexity of  weighting.  It  will  strike  and  retreat,  compliment 
and  insult,  challenge  and  grovel,  sing,  curse,  and  whimper, 
subside  and  recover.  Repeatedly,  it  will  throw  forth  obser- 
vations that  are  as  accurate,  in  the  realistic  charting  of 
human  situations,  as  any  ideal  semantic  formula.  Many 
proverbs  are  brilliantly  so.  It  will  "neutralize"  a  meaning 
at  any  desired  point.  But  such  behavior  must  be  merely 
taken  in  its  stride.  And  its  test  of  a  "true"  meaning  will 
be  its  ability  to  fit  into  a  piece  with  all  other  meanings, 
which  is  something  radically  different  from  the  sheer  ex- 
pectancy that  comes  with  conditioned  salivation  at  the  sound 
of  a  bell.  (I  sometimes  wonder  whether  all  of  human  "prog- 
ress" is  to  be  summed  up  as  the  insertion  of  an  "i"  in  the 
word  "salvation.") 

9.  complaints.  The  semantic  style  is  bad  style,  except 
in  those  who  violate  its  tenets,  as  Newton  violated  them  in 
the  resonance  of  the  language  in  which  he  gave  account  of 
his  "celestial  mechanics."  Charts,  graphs,  crop  reports,  "in- 
telligence," editorial  comment,  low-powered  description — 
*59 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
all  such  is  justifiable  only  in  so  far  as  "we  gotta  live,"  justi- 
fiable in  short  by  the  real  or  hoped-for  "return  on  the 
investment." 

Perhaps  it  is  unfair  to  attack  all  this  in  the  name  of  se- 
mantics, yet  it  is  more  legitimate  to  characterize  it  as  poor 
semantics  than  as  poor  poetry.  Information  is  quite  often 
"semantically"  sound.  But  it  is  rarely  resonant.  The  per- 
centage of  such  stuff  has  become  too  high.  Unawares,  we 
have  allowed  ourselves  to  take  it  as  the  norm,  thereby  con- 
fusing a  norm  with  an  average. 

Even  in  poetry  itself,  "the  norm"  has  encroached.  I  won- 
der how  long  it  has  been  since  a  poet  has  asked  himself: 
"What  would  I  say  if  I  wanted  to  present  Miss  Q  with  a 
gift,  accompanied  by  a  deft  verbal  compliment? — or  what 
would  I  say  if  I  wanted  to  knife  someone  neatly?"  Or  since 
someone  told  himself:  "Suppose  I  did  not  simply  wish  to 
load  upon  the  broad  shoulders  of  the  public  medium, 
my  own  ungainly  appetites  and  ambitions?  Suppose  that, 
gnarled  as  I  am,  I  did  not  consider  it  enough  simply  to 
seek  payment  for  my  gnarledness,  the  establishment  of  com- 
munion through  evils  held  in  common?  Suppose  I  would 
also  erect  a  structure  of  encouragement,  for  all  of  us?  How 
should  I  go  about  it,  in  the  sequence  of  imagery,  not  merely 
to  bring  us  most  poignantly  into  hell,  but  also  out  again? 
Should  I  leave  the  curse  of  a  malign  spell  upon  us,  in  so 
far  as  I  am  able,  and  in  so  far  as  my  audience  cannot  shake 
it  off  of  themselves  by  discounting  and  triviality?  Must  there 
not,  for  every  flight,  be  also  a  return,  before  my  work  can 
be  called  complete  as  a  moral  act?" 

The  thought  suggests  what  must  have  been  going  on  when 
the  symphonic  form  was  vital.  The  opening  allegro:  calm 
before  storm.  The  sorrows,  risks,  and  the  ingenious  struggles 
160 


SEMANTIC    AND    POETIC    MEANING 

of  movements  two  and  three.  And  the  final  celebration,  as 
a  "way  out,"  the  bright  clapping  of  the  hands  that  releases 
the  hypnotic  spell  (or  should  we  say,  supplants  it  with  a 
daylight  spell?).  Then,  as  we  move  from  the  symphony 
towards  the  tone  poem,  we  turn  from  this  rounded  aesthetic 
to  the  aesthetic  of  the  Poe  story.  The  one  corrosive  spell, 
leaving  it  for  the  reader's  own  enterprise  or  superficiality 
to  shake  himself  free  of  the  burden  it  would  shift  from  the 
writer's  shoulders  upon  his,  as  sacrificial  goat.  Alpheus  with- 
out Arethusa. 

Is  it  possible  that  writers  are  forgetting  what  to  ask  of 
their  paragraphs?  And  should  we  think  all  the  more  on  this 
subject,  since  we  seem  threatened  with  a  period  of  political 
gloom  ranging  anywhere  from  a  repellent  aimlessness  to  an 
even  more  repellent  aim  (and  if  we  get  the  latter,  men  will 
give  blows  with  twice  the  fury  of  blows,  striking  the  external 
enemy  with  vengeance,  and  making  him  also  the  recipient 
of  their  rage  against  the  past  uncertainties  within  themselves, 
a  double-duty  form  of  assertion  we  may  fear  especially  in 
our  frustrated  businessmen,  whose  businesses  have  got  in 
each  other's  way,  and  who  are  looking  earnestly  for  someone 
to  serve  as  vessel  of  their  rage).  We  must  get  sturdiness  from 
somewhere — we  must  seek  some  kind  of  physical  muscle 
and  its  mental  counterparts. 

If  a  dismal  political  season  is  in  store  for  us,  shall  we  not 
greatly  need  a  campaign  base  for  personal  integrity,  a  kind 
of  beneath-which-not?  And  I  wonder  whether  we  might  find 
this  beneath-which-not  in  a  more  strenuous  cult  of  style. 
This  effort  has  been  made  many  times  in  the  past — and  as 
regularly  has  been  despised  at  other  times,  when  there  was 
no  longer  any  need  for  it.  Style  for  its  own  sake?  Decidedly, 
not  at  all.  Style  solely  as  the  heneath-which-not ,  as  the  ad- 
161 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

monitory  and  hortatory  act,  as  the  example  that  would  prod 
continually  for  its  completion  in  all  aspects  of  life,  and  so, 
in  Eliot's  phrase,  "keep  something  alive,"  tiding  us  over  a 
lean  season.  And  there  is  all  the  more  reason  for  us  to  at- 
tempt doing  what  we  can  by  present  imagery,  since  the 
promissory,  the  rewards  of  "postponed  consumption,"  hold 
out  so  little  of  encouragement  for  the  political  future  within 
our  lifetime.  So  might  we,  rather  than  living  wholly  by  a 
future  that  threatens  so  strongly  to  refute  us,  do  rather 
what  we  can  to  live  in  a  present  that  may  in  good  time  spread 
into  the  future? 

Do  not  get  me  wrong.  I  am  pleading  for  no  "retreat"  to 
anything.  No  literary  Buchmanism,  no  off-by-itself,  no  back- 
to.  Let  our  enlistments  remain  as  they  are.  I  am  asking  sim- 
ply that  the  temper  of  our  enlistment  undergo  a  change  of 
emphasis.  That  the  norm  of  our  tone  cease  to  be  the  insult- 
ing tone  that  "talks  down"  to  people.  Nor  would  it  be  a  pre- 
sumptuous tone,  that  laid  claim  to  uplift  them.  But  rather  a 
tone  that  would  plead  with  us  all,  with  the  writer-to  as  well 
as  the  written-to.  In  it  there  must  also  be  disdain,  for  those 
who  have  been  giving  the  final  insult  to  democracy,  as  they 
contrive  to  suggest  that  one  almost  has  a  moral  obligation  to 
write  trivially  and  superficially,  as  though  one  could  only 
show  a  proper  love  of  mankind  by  plying  the  citizenry  with 
flimsy  items,  "to  be  used  once  and  thrown  away." 

The  editor  was  late.  The  paper  was  ready  for  the  printer, 
all  but  the  columns  reserved  for  him.  Yet  he  knocked  off  his 
opinions  on  the  state  of  the  world  in  time  to  beat  the  dead- 
line. Reading  them,  one  recalled:  "Yours  of  the  twelfth 
inst.  to  hand,  and  have  noted  same.  In  reply  would  beg  to 
state  that  we  .  .  .  etc."  This  is  "the  norm."  By  it  all  else 
is  tested.  It  has  its  place.  And  unquestionably,  the  opinions 
162 


SEMANTIC    AND    POETIC    MEANING 

of  a  trained  opinionator,  situated  at  a  strategic  point  with 
relation  to  the  channels  of  information  and  advice,  may  even 
thus  haphazardly  make  better  comment  than  could  a  man 
deprived  of  his  advantages.  The  question  is:  have  they  done 
anything?  Can  they,  in  this  form,  possibly  do  anything?  I 
submit  that  they  cannot.  And  further,  I  submit  that,  in  so 
far  as  they  become  "the  norm,"  they  serve  to  prevent  the 
doing  of  anything.  On  the  other  hand,  out  of  attempts  to 
key  up  the  values  of  style,  there  could  emerge  writers  whose 
muscularity  was  a  fit  with  the  requirements  of  the  people. 
As  things  now  stand,  "the  norm"  prevents  even  an  attempt 
at  such  selectivity. 

In  keeping  with  this  norm,  bright  boys  are  imported  from 
the  provinces,  put  through  the  mill,  stamped  with  a  method, 
and  used  hard  until  they  are  used  up — whereupon  other 
bright  boys  are  imported  to  take  their  places,  the  whole 
being  kept  on  its  toes  despite  disgust  and  boredom  by  mus- 
cling in  and  the  fear  of  muscling  in,  with  financial  hash- 
ish as  the  positive  incentive. 

Or  imagine  this  hypothetical  case:  Imagine  an  investi- 
gator who  confided:  "I've  finished  collating  my  material;  I 
have  my  findings;  but  I  haven't  been  able  to  write  them  up; 
I  can't  get  the  right  sentence  to  start  the  whole  thing  going." 
The  notion  seems  almost  impertinent.  The  fact  is  that  he 
would  say  his  say,  without  a  qualm,  though  his  sentences 
rattled  like  dice  in  a  box.  When  considering  the  welter  of 
minor  investigations  that  are  now  taken  as  the  normal  out- 
put of  the  academic  bureaucracy,  arising  from  the  fact  that 
everybody  is  expected  to  codify  something  or  other  for  his 
degree,  while  the  disproportionate  flow  of  incomes  acts  to 
support  a  vast  quantity  of  such  low-powered  collations — 
when  considering  these  stamp  collections  of  an  overly  prolif- 
163 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
erating  priesthood,  I  have  wondered  whether  we  might  legit- 
imately try  to  introduce  some  new  kind  of  Occam's  Razor, 
some  new  test  for  exclusion  of  the  inessential.  Suppose,  for 
example,  that  a  man  were  permitted  only  to  say  something 
that  he  could  grow  eloquent  about.  That  is,  suppose  he  were 
to  place  this  requirement  upon  himself.  I  grant  that  there 
would  be  much  persiflage  released  upon  the  world.  But  every 
once  in  a  while  it  wouldn't  be  persiflage.  And  much  that 
now  gets  "scientific  immunity"  by  reason  of  its  very  pallor 
(a  kind  of  "protection  by  unnoticeableness")  would  in  its 
attempted  keying-up  expose  itself  the  more  readily  to  weed- 
ing-out.  As  things  now  stand,  its  pallor  enjoys  protective  col- 
oration by  its  close  likeness  to  the  journalistic  pallor,  that  is 
"the  norm." 

10.  conclusion.  It  would  be  unfair  to  lay  all  these  ills 
to  the  "semantic  ideal."  It  might  be  more  just  to  say  that  the 
semantic  ideal  is  the  perfection  of  trends  which  we  find  here 
in  their  aggravatedly  imperfect  state.  At  its  best,  it  has  an 
incisiveness,  an  accuracy  of  formulation,  a  nicety,  that  makes 
it  itself  a  style.  But  anything  short  of  it  becomes  the  mere 
riding  of  a  convenience.  And  even  at  its  best,  when  isolated 
from  the  total  texture  of  language,  it  is  insufficient,  and 
promotes  the  upbuilding  of  a  fallacious  equipment. 

Above  all,  it  fosters,  sometimes  explicitly,  sometimes  by 
implication,  the  notion  that  one  may  comprehensively  dis- 
cuss human  and  social  events  in  a  nonmoral  vocabulary,  and 
that  perception  itself  is  a  nonmoral  act.  It  is  the  moral 
impulse  that  motivates  perception,  giving  it  both  intensity 
and  direction,  suggesting  what  to  look  for  and  what  to  look 
out  for.  Only  by  wanting  very  profoundly  to  make  improve- 
ment, can  we  get  a  glimpse  into  the  devious  personal  and 
impersonal  factors  that  operate  to  balk  improvement.  Or, 
164 


SEMANTIC    AND    POETIC    MEANING 

stating  this  in  reverse,  we  could  say  that  the  structural  firm- 
ness in  a  character  like  Iago  is  in  itself  an  evidence  of  Shake- 
speare's moral  depth.  For  it  was  in  knowing  what  to  look 
for  that  Shakespeare  also  knew  what  to  look  out  for.  We 
might  even  say  that  Shakespeare  constructed  this  arch- 
demon  by  making  him  an  ominous  caricature  of  the  play- 
wright's own  methods,  so  that  he  becomes  an  admonishment 
not  only  to  us,  but  to  his  inventor.  For  that  peculiarly  subtle 
variant  of  the  "confidence  game"  in  which  Iago  was  an 
adept,  inciting  Othello  to  participate  by  leading  him  always 
to  complete  the  surmises  for  himself,  never  wholly  saying 
them,  but  all-but-saying  them,  and  saying  them  in  such  a 
way  that  there  is  only  one  course  for  Othello  to  follow  in 
building  "logically"  upon  them,  and  taking  double  pre- 
cautions to  keep  him  in  this  track  by  constant  repetition 
of  goatish  imagery — are  not  these  Shakespeare's  own  pro- 
foundest  wiles,  here  made  sinister?  So  let  the  poetic  ideal  be 
sloganized  as  Iago-plus- Ariel — and  let  the  semantic  ideal 
be  sloganized  as  a  neutral  realm  eliminating  both. 

By  our  choice  here,  we  should  seek  for  neutralization  at 
moments,  for  given  purposes,  and  not  as  a  blanket  program 
for  vocabulary,  since  the  loss  in  action  now  (that  is,  in  full 
moral  asseveration)  would  be  too  great  were  the  semantic 
ideal  to  prevail.  We  can  understand  why  adepts  at  any  given 
specialization  might  want  to  erect  these  neutralizing  mo- 
ments into  a  whole  trade,  asking  that  the  whole  world  be 
seen  from  the  perspective  of  their  "occupational  psychosis." 
We  can  understand  why,  through  living  professionally  with 
a  neutral  vocabulary,  they  should  favor  the  thought  of  its 
ideal  extension  until  it  has  encompassed  all  vocabulary.  But 
merely  because  they  have  found  a  way  of  prolonging  the 
insight  of  one  moment  through  a  life-work,  giving  it  body 
165 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

in  documentation  and  routine,  even  that  is  not  argument 
enough  to  make  us  believe  that  the  realm  of  the  affections 
can  or  should  be  expressed  ordine  geometrico  (an  aim  that 
Spinoza  expressed  explicitly,  whereas  the  humane  attractive- 
ness of  his  Ethics  owes  much  to  the  fact  that  he  implicitly 
violated  his  own  program  repeatedly,  beginning  perhaps 
with  his  first  proposition,  Substantia  prior  est  natura  suis 
affectionibus,  for  "substance"  has  since  been  shown  to  be  a 
very  resonant  word). 

We  have,  as  it  happens,  the  "neutral"  word  shoe,  capable 
of  designating  equally  well  the  shoe  worn  by  a  communist 
and  the  shoe  worn  by  a  fascist.  One  can  imagine  that  we 
had  instead  only  two  weighted  words,  bims  and  bams,  so 
that  the  same  object  worn  by  a  communist  had  to  be  called 
a  bim  that,  if  worn  by  a  fascist,  could  only  in  the  pieties  of 
poetry  be  called  a  bam.  A  liberal  shoe  manufacturer,  mak- 
ing footwear  for  export,  might  then  label  his  consignments 
to  Germany  bams  and  his  consignments  to  Russia  bims.  And 
he  would  be  grateful  for  some  "neutralizer"  who  helped 
him  simplify  the  keeping  of  his  ledgers  by  inventing  a 
purely  "scientific"  word,  shoe,  that  would  include  both 
classes.  But  I  have  purposely  imagined  inventing  a  neutral 
word  that  we  already  have,  to  replace  two  weighted  words 
we  don't  have,  as  a  way  of  suggesting  that  spontaneous 
speech  can,  and  repeatedly  does,  neutralize,  where  the  oc- 
casion requires. 

So,  the  poetic  vocabulary,  when  complete,  will  take  us 
into-and-out-of  (the  complete  play  with  its  exhilaration  at 
the  close).  When  incomplete,  it  will  take  us  into,  and  seek 
to  leave  us  there  (the  "aesthetic  of  the  Poe  story").  While 
the  semantic  vocabulary  would,  I  think,  unintentionally 
cheat  us,  by  keeping  us  without,  providing  a  kind  of  quietus 
166 


SEMANTIC    AND    POETIC    MEANING 

in  advance,  never  even  giving  the  dramatic  opposition  a 
chance,  avoiding  the  error  which  Lucretius  made,  at  the 
sacrifice  of  his  work  as  "science"  and  to  its  great  gain  as 
"poetry." 

Paradoxically,  however,  we  may  also  judge  the  semantic 
vocabulary  as  "imagery,"  as  "secular  prayer,"  as  itself  ex- 
emplifying a  form  of  consolational  dance,  all  in  the  tone 
of  perfect  peacefulness.  Judged  as  a  refuge  from  something, 
that  would  not  permit  even  the  mere  mention  of  that  from 
which  it  was  a  refuge,  it  becomes  itself  an  attenuated  form 
of  poetry,  with  its  own  modes  of  hypnosis.  Or  we  may 
consider  it  valuable  as  a  stage,  a  kind  of  purgatorial  dis- 
embodiment helpful  for  transition  from  an  old  poetic  vo- 
cabulary whose  weightings  are  all  askew  to  a  new  poetic 
vocabulary  whose  weightings  will  be  better  fitted  to  the 
situations  it  would  encompass.  As  preparation,  as  discipline, 
as  itself  pointing  out  some  important  things  "to  look  for 
and  to  look  out  for,"  it  can  be  saluted.  It  is  only  when  it 
is  considered  as  an  ideal  in  itself,  rather  than  as  a  prepara- 
tion for  new  and  more  accurate  weighting,  that  one  need 
turn  against  it. 

The  ideal  word  is  in  itself  an  act,  its  value  contained 
in  its  use  at  the  moment  of  utterance.  Its  worth  does  not 
reside  in  its  "usefulness"  and  promise  (though  that  is  cer- 
tainly a  part  of  it)  but  in  its  style  as  morals,  as  petition,  in 
the  quality  of  the  petition,  not  in  the  success  of  the  petition. 
For  preparations,  anything  may  serve,  everything  does  serve 
— but  preparations  must  not  usurp  the  guise  of  fulfillments. 


167 


THE  VIRTUES  AND 
LIMITATIONS  OF  DEBUNKING 


THE  word  "debunking"  has  gone  into  our  language  be- 
cause it  fills  a  need.  It  refers  in  general  to  that  class  of 
literature  designed  to  show  that  George  Washington  did  not 
cut  down  the  cherry  tree,  and  the  highly  alembicated  vari- 
ants of  such.  It  counters  the  inflating  of  reputations  by  the 
deflating  of  reputations.  It  is  the  systematic  "let  down"  that 
matches  the  systematic  "build  up."  At  one  time  in  America 
an  aspect  of  it  went  by  the  name  of  "muckraking."  It  took 
a  notable  step  forward  with  the  biographical  methods  of 
Lytton  Strachey.  But  it  had  been  given  an  explicit  meth- 
odology as  far  back  as  the  utilitarian  philosophy  of  Jeremy 
Bentham,  with  his  schemes  for  disclosing  the  ways  in 
which  material  interests  are  masked  by  "eulogistic  cover- 
ings." 

Among  Bentham's  ideological  inventions  was  his  "Pan- 
opticon," a  project  for  a  model  prison  so  arranged  that  an 
overseer,  centrally  located,  could  at  all  times  observe  the 
behavior  of  the  prisoners.  Reading  of  this  project  with 
Bentham's  critique  of  language  in  mind,  one  is  tempted  to 
ask  whether  it  was  not  the  perfect  symbolization  of  Ben- 
tham's attitude  toward  spontaneous  human  speech  itself. 
Moralizing  words  he  looked  upon  as  transgressors;  if  not  to 
be  imprisoned,  they  were  at  least  to  be  put  on  probation 
— and  Bentham,  by  his  analysis  of  language,  developed  a 
168 


DEBUNKING 

"panoptical"  perspective  from  which  he  could  constantly 

observe  his  verbal  suspects  for  signs  of  ill  behavior. 

Going  still  further  back,  we  may  note  the  emergence  of 
the  debunking  attitude  in  the  works  of  Machiavelli  and 
Hobbes.  Machiavelli  tended  to  consider  the  "ungrateful, 
deceitful,  cowardly,  and  greedy"  aspects  of  men  not  as  an 
aspect  of  their  "fall,"  but  as  the  very  essence  of  their  nature. 
Lying  was  not  a  deviation  from  the  norm,  it  was  the  norm. 
Beneath  this  strategy,  to  be  sure,  there  was  a  humane  mo- 
tive. Machiavelli  felt,  I  believe,  that  since  virtues  are  by 
very  definition  rare,  they  are  a  frail  structure  upon  which 
to  build  a  state.  But  if  you  could  found  a  state  upon  vice, 
you  would  have  a  firm  foundation  indeed.  And  in  an  age 
of  marked  instability,  Machiavelli  was  searching  vigorously 
for  firmness,  a  kind  of  beneath-which-not.  Similarly,  Hobbes 
based  his  arguments  for  political  authority  upon  the  "nasty" 
and  "brutish"  nature  of  men,  who  required  an  absolute 
monarch  to  hold  their  essential  meanness  in  check.  You  may 
trail  this  mode  of  thought  down  through  the  paradoxes  of 
Mandeville.  And  finally,  in  Adam  Smith,  it  becomes  benign, 
as  Smith  worked  out  a  structure  whereby  the  sheer  accumu- 
lations of  mutually  conflicting  individual  greeds  added  up 
to  a  grand  total  of  social  benefit. 

In  brief,  the  history  of  debunking  is  interwoven  with  the 
history  of  liberalism.  As  soon  as  men  began  methodically 
to  question  the  Church's  vocabulary  of  human  motivation, 
they  gravitated  towards  the  debunking  category.  The  pro- 
ductivity of  this  attitude  has  been  astounding.  We  might 
even  with  justice  attribute  to  it  the  growth  of  psychology 
as  a  science  (or,  if  you  don't  like  that,  the  growth  of  psy- 
chology as  a  body  of  documented  speculations).  Particularly 

when  you  get  to  psychoanalysis,  with  its  polysyllabic  ways 

169 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

of  ramifying  the  notion  that  "the  wish  is  father  to  the 
thought,"  you  are  close  to  the  center  of  the  debunking  ap- 
proach. 

I  want  here  to  discuss  the  debunking  line,  using  as  my 
text  a  recent  bright  and  stimulating  example,  Thurman  W. 
Arnold's  The  Folklore  of  Capitalism,  which  Arnold  de- 
scribes in  his  preface  as  "an  application  to  a  broader  field 
of  the  same  point  of  view  represented  in  my  former  book, 
The  Symbols  of  Government."  I  agree  with  Arnold  that 
there  is  no  fundamental  difference  between  these  two  works, 
so  far  as  the  general  strategy  of  the  thinking  is  concerned. 
The  newer  book  is  the  more  popular,  probably  because  of 
its  much  greater  reliance  upon  anecdote  as  the  basis  of  his 
exposition.  These  anecdotes,  chosen  mainly  from  representa- 
tive political,  economic,  and  judicial  pronouncements  and 
maneuvers  of  1937,  are  extremely  entertaining.  Arnold  tells 
his  stories  in  a  lightly  running  style,  with  a  catchy  seasoning 
of  irony,  and  with  a  cunning  sense  of  showmanship.  And 
whatever  I  may  say  about  his  book,  by  way  of  reservations, 
I  do  not  wish  to  belittle  its  accomplishments.  I  can  imagine 
many  a  reader  "who  would  refuse  to  follow  Veblen's  The 
Theory  of  Business  Enterprise  yet  would  read  The  Folklore 
of  Capitalism  with  engrossment.  And  it  must  be  saluted  for 
its  ability  thus  to  "tap"  new  areas  of  the  public,  drawing 
them  closer  to  a  skeptical  attitude  towards  our  ailing  status 
quo,  and  giving  this  attitude  documentary  substance  by 
examples  chosen  from  the  press  and  from  current  investi- 
gations. 

Arnold  himself,  to  be  sure,  disclaims  the  role  of  the  de- 
bunker.  He  realizes  that,  in  attributing  human  action  to 
motives  low  in  the  scale  of  values,  we  tend  unwittingly  to 
cheat  ourselves.  For  if  all  men  are  in  the  same  boat,  and  that 
170 


DEBUNKING 

boat  is  sunk,  we  too  are  sunk  in  the  general  sinking.  In  a 
total  slump  of  the  market,  one's  own  holdings  must  like- 
wise slump.  And  since  we  are  all  stockholders  in  the  corpo- 
ration of  mankind,  the  debunker  and  his  allies  suffer  with 
the  debunked.  It  is  my  contention  here  that,  although  Ar- 
nold explicitly  disclaims  membership  in  the  debunking  line, 
his  two  books  are  implicitly  perfect  examples  of  this  line. 

I  think  that  the  typical  debunker  is  involved  in  a  strategy 
of  this  sort:  He  discerns  an  evil.  He  wants  to  eradicate  this 
evil.  And  he  wants  to  do  a  thorough  job  of  it.  Hence,  in 
order  to  be  sure  that  he  is  thorough  enough,  he  becomes 
too  thorough.  In  order  to  knock  the  underpinnings  from 
beneath  the  arguments  of  his  opponents,  he  perfects  a  mode 
of  argument  that  would,  if  carried  out  consistently,  also 
knock  the  underpinnings  from  beneath  his  own  argument. 
But  at  this  important  juncture  he  simply  "pulls  his  punch," 
refusing  to  apply  as  a  test  of  his  own  position  the  arguments 
by  which  he  has  dissolved  his  opponents'  position.  If  anyone 
is  to  say  "tu  quo  que,"  he  leaves  it  to  his  opponents  to  do  so. 
And  he  makes  the  application  of  the  "tu  quo  que"  test  more 
difficult  for  his  opponents  by  unconscious  subterfuges  on  his 
part,  involving  ambiguities  that  are  hard  to  discover. 

In  short:  in  order  to  shatter  his  opponents'  policies,  he 
adopts  a  position  whereby  he  could  not  logically  advocate 
a  policy  of  his  own.  And  then,  since  there  comes  a  point  at 
which  he  too  must  advocate  something  or  other,  he  covertly 
restores  important  ingredients  of  thought  that  he  has  overtly 
annihilated.  In  Arnold's  case,  the  strategic  use  of  ambigui- 
ties is  quite  simple.  He  realizes  the  many  ways  in  which 
discussions  about  "principles"  have  been  misused  in  the 
current  battle  of  words.  Noting  how  the  reference  to  "prin- 
ciple," which  should  be  a  guide  to  social  adjustment,  has 
171 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
been  misused  as  a  mere  obstruction  to  social  adjustment,  he 
wishes  to  prevent  this  misuse.  So,  in  order  to  prevent  the 
misuse,  he  ridicules  the  use.  This  would  seem  analogous  to 
the  project  of  a  doctor  who  would  prevent  heart  trouble 
by  getting  rid  of  hearts.  However,  since  Arnold  himself  is 
not  interested  in  being  merely  the  destroyer,  but  would  also 
uphold  exhortations  of  his  own,  he  must  refer  his  policies 
to  some  basis.  And  having  outlawed  such  reference  by  his 
jibes  at  those  who  think  by  "principles,"  he  reintroduces  the 
same  way  of  thinking  under  the  strategically  altered  name 
of  "propositions." 

Again,  he  does  much  damage  to  those  who  would  try  to 
advocate  policies  by  "rational"  tests.  Some  of  his  most  enter- 
taining pages  are  devoted  to  a  picture  of  men  as  being  essen- 
tially "irrational"  in  their  conduct.  But  when  he  would 
recommend  some  policies  of  government  that  he  considers 
necessary,  he  pleads  for  them  as  "sensible."  Hence,  what  is 
overtly  thrown  out  as  "rational,"  is  covertly  brought  back 
under  the  disarming  guise  of  the  "sensible."  This  same 
homely  appeal,  incidentally,  is  also  implicit  in  his  use  of 
"comfort"  as  the  test  of  a  policy.  The  test  of  "comfort"  is 
not  much  of  a  variant  on  Bentham's  test  of  "utility."  Yet  the 
shift  seems  to  have  had  its  strategic  value  in  persuasiveness, 
as  a  reviewer  in  The  New  Republic  presented  Arnold's  book 
as  something  challengingly  new  in  Western  thought  (the 
newness  at  this  point  apparently  residing  in  the  fact  that 
"comfort"  has  more  of  a  book-and-carpet-slippers-in-an-arm- 
chair-by-the-radiator  tone  than  Bentham's  "utility"). 

Again,  we  find  much  guying  of  those  who  think  by  the  use 
of  "abstract  ideals."  Yet  towards  the  end  of  The  Folklore  of 
Capitalism,  where  the  author  is  summarizing  his  positive 
position,  we  come  upon  Proposition  20:  "A  social  need 
172 


DEBUNKING 

which  runs  counter  to  an  abstract  ideal  will  always  be  in- 
competently met  until  it  gets  a  philosophy  of  its  own.  The 
process  of  building  up  new  abstractions  to  justify  filling 
new  needs  is  always  troublesome  in  any  society,  and  may 
be  violent."  This  proposition,  if  I  interpret  it  correctly, 
clearly  shows  a  recognition  of  the  fact  that  we  must  have 
abstract  ideals  as  a  basis  of  social  judgment.  The  reader  who 
does  not  know  the  book  will  find  nothing  bothersome  about 
this  proposition.  But  after  reading  more  than  three  hundred 
pages  devoted  to  the  guying  of  those  who  think  by  reference 
to  "ideals,"  I  think  he  will  tend,  rather,  to  look  upon  these 
lines  as  distinctly  contraband.  As  "ideals"  such  thinking  is 
thrown  out,  so  that  the  author  may  throw  out  the  exhorta- 
tions of  the  enemy.  But  since  the  author  also  would  exhort, 
they  are  brought  back,  under  the  name  of  "abstractions" 
and  "a  philosophy  of  its  own." 

Arnold  is  very  enlightened  in  his  attitude  towards  word 
magic.  He  would  show  little  mercy  to  such  ritualistic  ma- 
nipulations as  we  get  when  Saul,  changing  his  identity,  be- 
comes Paul.  Yet  I  wonder  whether,  even  beneath  his  en- 
lightened essay,  making  sport  of  such  procedures,  there  may 
not  be  something  similar  taking  place.  Maybe  all  we  have 
here  is  not  some  fundamental  difference  between  poetic  and 
essayistic  methods;  maybe  "word  magic"  is  more  easily  dis- 
closed in  poetry,  but  also  prevails  in  the  essay.  Maybe  the 
turn  from  "principles"  to  "propositions"  is  but  the  turn 
from  "Saul"  to  "Paul."  Maybe  the  poet's  shift  from  "Tan- 
tris"  to  "Tristan"  equals  the  essayist's  shift  from  "rational" 
to  "sensible."  I  have  praised  Arnold's  showmanship.  Much 
of  it  is  got  by  debunking  the  "dramatic"  ingredient  in  hu- 
man conduct.  Maybe  his  own  indictment  is  more  "dramatic" 
in  its  texture  than  he  himself  suspects. 

173 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

I  have,  then,  suggested,  as  the  first  mark  of  the  debunker, 
the  fact  that,  in  order  to  combat  a  bad  argument,  he  de- 
velops a  position  so  thorough  that  it  would  combat  all  argu- 
ments— and  then  must  covertly  so  rework  this  position  that 
he  may  spare  his  own  argument  from  the  general  slaughter. 
This  he  generally  does,  I  have  suggested,  by  an  uninten- 
tional ambiguity  whereby  he  throws  something  out  by  one 
name  and  brings  it  back  by  another  name. 

The  situation  calling  forth  this  strategy  has,  of  course, 
much  to  make  us  sympathetic  with  the  strategist.  Matches 
may  be  used  either  to  light  our  pipes  or  burn  down  our 
houses.  And  one  can  well  understand  why,  if  they  were  being 
used  almost  entirely  for  the  purpose  of  burning  down  our 
houses,  a  thinker  should  arise  to  say:  "Let  us  have  no  more 
matches."  By  preventing  the  use,  he  could  prevent  the  mis- 
use. And  then,  if  he  still  had  occasion  to  light  his  pipe,  he 
might  make  an  altered  recommendation  of  this  sort:  "What 
we  really  need  is  lighters."  He  might  go  on  to  show  that 
matches  are  largely  derived  from  tradition,  whereas  lighters 
are  modern.  And  in  our  eagerness  for  the  solution,  we  might 
be  willing  to  meet  the  thinker  halfway,  failing  thereby  to 
note  that  lighters  could  be  misused  in  quite  the  same  way 
as  matches  were. 

If  you  think  that  this  is  an  absurd  analogy,  I  might  draw 
a  parallel  from  the  book  itself.  Arnold  plays  havoc  with 
courts,  as  distinct  from  "administrative  tribunals."  He  shows 
the  medieval  aspects  of  the  law  court,  its  substitution  of 
"trial  by  wit"  for  "trial  by  combat."  He  discloses  the  purely 
"dramatic"  nature  of  its  conflicts.  And  when  he  comes  for- 
ward with  his  plea  for  "administrative  tribunals"  as  the 
solution  for  all  this,  you  are  invited  to  think  that  some 
totally  different  kind  of  situation  would  operate  here.  In 

174 


DEBUNKING 

this  particular  instance,  he  has  so  strongly  stressed  the  ritu- 
alistic ingredients  of  the  law  court,  and  so  slighted  the  role 
played  by  the  clash  of  interests  in  legal  combat,  that  you  are 
invited  to  believe  in  the  superiority  of  tribunals  over  courts 
simply  because  tribunals,  being  new,  lack  traditionalistic 
ritual.  The  real  issue  underlying  conflicts,  whether  in  courts 
or  in  tribunals,  is  of  course  the  matter  of  conflicting  interests. 
But  by  stressing  the  fact  that  courts  rely  upon  rituals  and 
that  tribunals  would  not,  you  are  led  to  think  that  we  could 
solve  the  problem  by  getting  rid  of  the  ritual. 

In  any  event,  we  have  at  present  a  situation  that  makes  us 
sympathetic  with  the  debunker's  efforts.  For  conservatives 
and  reactionaries  have  developed  a  most  disturbing  strategy. 
It  would  seem  that  they  are  no  longer  bothering  to  seek  good 
arguments;  rather,  they  are  content  to  seek  any  arguments, 
if  only  there  be  enough  of  them  kept  running  through 
the  headlines,  an  avalanche  of  arguments,  condemnations, 
prophecies  of  dire  calamity,  "statistical  proofs,"  pronounce- 
ments by  private  and  institutional  "authorities,"  a  barrage, 
a  snowing  under,  a  purely  quantitative  mode  of  propaganda. 
Are  there  no  eagles  among  their  publicized  utterances?  Very 
well;  then  let  them  be  instead  a  swarm  of  mosquitoes.  Before 
you  could  refute  this  morning's,  there  is  a  new  batch  out 
this  afternoon.  Anything,  everything,  if  only  it  all  points  in 
the  same  general  direction — a  truly  cynical  exemplification 
of  the  slogan  that  "in  union  there  is  strength,"  a  kind  of 
"idealistic  collectivism,"  a  fabulous  state  of  affairs  whereby 
free  speech  is  preserved  only  to  be  mocked  at,  the  "free 
speech"  that  permits  whispering  "no"  to  a  few  friends  and 
cronies  while  the  loudspeakers  blast  forth  a  rousing  "yes" 
for  millions. 

Seeing  this,  one  has  sympathy  with  the  man  who  would 
175 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
work  fast,  seeking  for  some  quick  cure-all.  Arnold's  book, 
approached  from  this  angle,  is  something  to  be  grateful  for. 
At  its  best,  its  very  liabilities  become  its  assets.  For  he  does 
picturesque  work  particularly  in  confounding  the  output  of 
the  right,  that  group  whose  slogan,  when  confronting  the 
Constitution,  might  very  properly  be:  "Made  to  help,  used 
to  hinder." 

But  here  again,  Arnold  relies  upon  an  ambiguity  for  his 
effects.  "Why  object  to  that?"  you  may  ask.  "Why  sit  up  all 
night  worrying  lest  unfairness  be  treated  unfairly?"  But  the 
matter  is  not  so  simple.  For  unfairness  does  not  only  con- 
found the  enemy.  It  may  also  confound  one's  allies,  since 
it  may  lead  both  sides  into  a  wrong  view  of  the  situation. 
It  might  be  satisfactory  as  mere  vengeance;  but  it  becomes 
more  than  vengeance,  it  becomes  a  guide  by  its  own  right, 
and  as  a  guide  it  is  fallacious.  To  be  specific: 

Arnold  is  attacking  the  tremendous  contemporary  breach 
between  ideals  and  practices.  He  is  attempting  to  deprive 
apologetics  of  that  persuasive  device  whereby,  in  converting 
every  controversial  issue  about  a  practical  measure  into  a 
matter  of  the  highest  moral  principle,  the  priesthood  of  the 
status  quo  does  its  best  to  make  people  fear  the  adoption  of 
"sensible"  measures.  Thus,  a  given  measure  is  not  consid- 
ered on  the  basis  of  whether  or  not  it  would  take  care  of  the 
problem  at  hand,  but  whether  or  not  it  leads  to  "regimenta- 
tion," or  "fascism,"  or  "communism,"  or  "destruction  of  the 
American  system,"  etc.  By  such  amplification,  or  in  Ben- 
tham's  term,  "censorious"  speech,  practical  issues  are  lifted 
to  a  moral  plane  that  fills  people  with  all  sorts  of  irrelevant 
terrors.  And  only  by  underground  political  "horse-trading" 
does  the  work  of  the  government  get  done  at  all.  To  combat 
these  tactics,  Arnold  makes  grotesque  caricatures  of  such 
176 


DEBUNKING 

apologetics.  The  question  is:  does  his  caricature  become  too 

thorough,  and  in  so  doing,  threaten  to  mislead  us  all? 

Suppose,  for  instance,  that  you  were  to  write  a  farce  on 
mankind.  Suppose  you  made  up  a  composite  character, 
called  "Mr.  Everybody,"  and  you  made  this  one  character 
state  all  the  divergent  and  mutually  contradictory  views  held 
in  real  life  by  many  different  kinds  and  classes  and  ages  of 
people.  "Mr.  Everybody"  would  obviously  be  the  very  op- 
posite of  the  "consistent,  logical  or  rational."  He  would  be  a 
hilarious  bundle  of  contradictions.  Now,  in  a  way,  it  is  just 
such  a  farce  as  this  that  Arnold  works  up,  though  on  a 
smaller  scale.  When  a  given  issue  is  being  debated  in  the 
press,  many  different  people  come  forward  with  their  inter- 
pretation of  this  issue.  Twenty  different  arguments,  by 
twenty  different  kinds  of  spokesmen,  may  be  offered,  let  us 
say,  against  "packing  the  Court."  And  though  all  these 
spokesmen  may  agree  on  the  proposition  that  "the  Court 
should  not  be  packed,"  each  may  approach  the  issue  from  a 
different  rationale.  However,  if  you  lumped  all  their  argu- 
ments together,  as  though  they  were  to  be  taken  as  aspects 
of  a  single  argument,  you  could  bring  out  all  sorts  of  clashes 
among  them.  This  is,  I  think,  what  Arnold  does — thereby 
making  people  look  much  more  irrational  than  they  are  in 
actuality. 

He  assembles  his  group  with  reference  to  an  interest  they 
share  in  common.  But  when  interpreting  the  motivation  be- 
hind their  pronouncements,  he  drops  the  test  of  interests,  by 
which  he  has  selected  his  sitters  for  a  composite  portrait,  and 
attributes  their  pronouncements  instead  to  a  love  of  ritual, 
of  ceremony,  of  parade.  Hence,  the  ambiguity  here  exploited 
for  polemic,  pamphleteering  purposes  resides  in  the  fact 
that  he  simultaneously  employs  and  discards  the  factor  of 
177 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

interest,  putting  the  group  together  on  the  basis  of  the  in- 
terest they  share  in  common,  and  then  slighting  this  interest 
as  an  interpretation  of  their  statements. 

A  man,  to  reach  his  destination,  goes  up  the  street  one 
day;  the  next  day,  it  is  raining,  so  he  reaches  his  destination 
by  going  down  the  street,  to  the  corner  where  the  bus  stops. 
Now  imagine  a  thinker  who  said  to  him,  "Yesterday  you 
went  up  the  street,  today  you  go  down  the  street.  What  in- 
consistency!" He  might  answer  by  suggesting,  "But  look  at 
the  interests  involved  in  each  case."  And  looking,  you  would 
find  no  "inconsistency"  whatsoever.  The  same  is  true,  in  a 
more  complex  way,  of  arguments  that  discuss  policies  in 
terms  of  principles.  You  advocate  a  policy  by  relating  it  to 
a  different  principle  than  you  would  select  when  attacking 
the  policy.  Thus,  we  heard  business  apologists,  at  the  time 
when  the  controversy  over  social  insurance  was  paramount, 
attributing  all  our  "progress"  to  the  capitalist  "principle" 
of  insecurity,  that  kept  people  on  their  toes,  and  so  stimu- 
lated maximum  production.  Security,  we  were  told,  would 
destroy  ambition.  But  recently  these  apologists  have  been 
concerned  over  a  different  issue.  They  would  put  a  stop  to 
any  further  legislative  experiments  at  Washington.  So  we 
hear  much  about  the  "principle"  of  security,  as  we  are  re- 
minded that  businessmen  must  plan,  and  that  they  can  in- 
telligently plan  only  on  the  basis  of  expectancy,  and  that 
they  cannot  plan  on  the  basis  of  expectancy  while  the  future 
course  of  legislation  in  Congress  is  uncertain.  Now,  such 
shifting  is  cause  enough  for  bewilderment,  even  if  you  in- 
troduce the  doctrine  of  "interests."  But  if  you  deliberately 
omit  it,  or  even  worse,  group  the  arguments  for  or  against  a 
measure  on  the  basis  of  interests  and  then  omit  the  factor  of 
interests  as  a  motive  for  explaining  the  nature  of  the  argu- 
178 


DEBUNKING 

ments,  you  arrive  at  chaos  itself.  This  is  Arnold's  strategy  as 
a  writer  of  farce.  He  builds  up  the  picture  of  a  fabulously 
irrational  world  by  juxtaposing  the  shifts  from  up-the-street 
to  down-the-street,  leaving  out  matters  of  destination  and 
attendant  circumstance,  and  attributing  the  thought  of 
his  opponents  to  their  sheer  "irrational"  penchant  for 
"ritual." 

We  need  not  enter  here  into  a  defense  of  ritual.  A  play  by 
a  great  dramatist  may  be  shown  to  be  quite  "rational"  in 
its  organization.  And  though  the  use  of  "Dear  Sir"  as  head- 
ing for  a  letter  is  a  purely  ritualistic  "way  in,"  given  a  society 
in  which  that  is  the  accepted  convention,  I  see  nothing  "irra- 
tional" in  the  conduct  of  an  individual  who  began  his  letter 
by  obeying  it.  For  present  purposes,  however,  it  should  be 
enough  to  point  out  that,  whatever  part  the  rituals  of  legal- 
istic fiction  may  play  in  complicating  contemporary  pro- 
cedure (as  when  the  government  incorporates  a  bureau  in 
order  to  get  the  same  advantages  that  private  enterprises 
enjoy  through  incorporation),  one  deprives  himself  of  a 
greatly  needed  interpretative  weapon  if,  for  ritualistic  pur- 
poses of  his  own  (in  Arnold's  case,  the  dramatic  building  of 
a  "case"  against  legal  and  political  drama),  he  slights  the 
tremendous  part  played  by  the  pressure  of  interests  (whether 
correctly  or  incorrectly  gauged)  in  shaping  the  tactics  of 
political,  judicial,  or  economic  apologetics. 

Surely,  an  overwhelming  amount  of  our  present  legalistic 
confusion  through  profusion  could  be  adequately  accounted 
for  by  the  Zweck  im  Recht  mode  of  discounting,  the  search 
for  purpose  behind  the  law  and  behind  the  legislating  of  all 
ideologists  (ranging  from  the  crudest  columnist-pamphleteer 
to  the  most  scrupulous  philosopher).  A  law  is  passed,  for 
example,  to  put  gangsters  into  prison,  as  a  protection  to  prop- 
*79 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
erty.  But  a  situation  arises  whereby  the  same  law,  if  con- 
sistently applied,  would  also  put  some  outstanding  financier 
into  prison.  So,  if  said  outstanding  financier  is  influential 
enough,  and  can  hire  sufficiently  able  corporation  lawyers, 
some  saving  loophole  in  the  law  is  discovered.  In  short,  the 
law  becomes  ambivalently  interpreted  by  the  courts,  in  such 
a  way  that  the  gangster-promoter  stays  in  and  the  financial 
promoter  stays  out.  Or  conversely:  A  law  is  passed  to  help 
the  financial  promoter  stay  out.  But  if  consistently  applied, 
it  would  also  allow  the  gangster-promoter  to  stay  out.  So 
some  "subtilization"  by  the  courts  becomes  necessary,  where- 
by a  "universal"  law  can  be  made  "selective."  Or  a  law  made 
for  the  protection  of  labor  is  twisted,  by  ingenious  lawyers, 
into  a  device  for  use  against  labor  (quite  as  the  Fourteenth 
Amendment  has  been  interpreted  in  the  interests  of  corpora- 
tions). "Ritual"  undoubtedly  figures  here.  The  judge  may 
wear  some  special  vestment,  which  has  its  equivalent  in  the 
judicial  style  itself.  But  obviously  the  major  shaping  influ- 
ence behind  such  "living  law"  is  due  to  interpretations  made 
in  accordance  with  the  sympathies  of  the  interpreters.  As  a 
result  of  it,  an  enormous  body  of  legal  casuistry  piles  up, 
with  all  kinds  of  internal  contradictions.  But  to  locate  such 
a  procedure  by  primary  emphasis  upon  the  rituals  is  to  de- 
flect accurate  social  criticism  (serving,  in  Arnold's  case,  as  an 
apparent  argument  for  administrative  tribunals,  which  are 
expected  to  solve  our  problems  by  eliminating  the  rituals, 
while  the  really  basic  matter  of  conflicting  interests  is 
slighted). 

Arnold  thereby  manages  to  convey  the  idea  that  there  is 
some  fundamental  difference  between  the  "priestly"  mind 
and  the  "organizational"  mind  that  thinks  in  terms  of  "prac- 
tical" going  concerns.  Yet  he  himself,  after  building  up  a 
180 


DEBUNKING 

picture  of  our  businessmen,  like  Ford,  as  exemplars  of  the 
practical,  organizational  mind,  is  to  be  found  at  other  points 
in  his  book  attacking  these  same  men  for  their  tendency  to 
judge  proposed  political  measures  from  the  "priestly"  point 
of  view.  Such  an  approach  to  the  issue  seems  to  me  as  un- 
wieldy and  inaccurate  in  its  way  as  the  overemphasis  upon 
the  ritualistic.  Ford  sees  problems  of  production  in  the  Ford 
plant  from  the  "organizational"  point  of  view.  But  he  can- 
not relate  them  to  a  wider  frame  of  reference  involving  the 
organization  of  the  entire  state.  Other  people  can — if  only 
because  they  do  not  share  Ford's  relationship  to  the  Ford 
organization.  There  is  nothing  "priestly"  about  it.  Ford 
workers  can  see  the  "organizational  problems"  in  a  Ford 
plant  in  a  way  that  Ford  simply  cannot  see  them.  Theorists 
of  labor  can  propose  "rationalizations"  of  the  workers'  prob- 
lem, with  relation  to  a  wider  political  context.  Why  intro- 
duce the  "priestly"  element  here,  as  something  categorically 
opposed  to  the  "organizational"? 

There  is  surely  a  great  necessity  for  considering  a  crisis 
with  relation  to  over-all  political  and  economic  necessities. 
People  are  building  philosophic  criticisms  or  defenses  of 
Ford  because  there  is  an  organizational  problem  in  the 
motor  car  industry.  I  am  not  here  using  the  word  in  its  re- 
stricted sense,  the  "organizing"  of  labor.  I  am  referring  to 
the  organizational  problem  involved  in  trying  to  use  the  pro- 
ductive capacity  of  Detroit's  factories.  One  may,  for  polemic 
purposes,  refer  to  the  propaganda  speeches  broadcast  during 
Ford's  Sunday  evening  music  hour  as  "priestly."  But  one 
cannot  dismiss,  as  "priestly,"  every  reasoned  attempt  to 
evaluate  Ford's  policies  with  reference  to  general  social 
criteria,  problems,  necessities,  etc.  A  reasoned  political  meas- 
ure may,  when  carried  into  practice,  encounter  difficulties 
181 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
not  foreseen  at  the  time  of  the  planning.  But  the  same  is 
true  of  an  "organizational"  decision  of  the  sales  strategists  to 
price  a  car  at  a  certain  figure. 

Of  late,  we  have  been  hearing  so  much  criticism  of  govern- 
ment by  "blue  prints,"  you  might  be  led  to  think  that  archi- 
tects no  longer  used  blue  prints.  "Abstract  ideals,"  I  submit, 
are  social  blue  prints.  They  are  ways  of  shaping  policies  with 
relation  to  principles.  They  select  measures  with  reference 
to  directives.  "Go  two  blocks  north,  and  then  one  block  east." 
The  "two  blocks"  and  "one  block"  are  the  "policy,"  the 
"north"  and  "east"  the  "principles."  And  let  no  barrister's 
indictment  of  the  "priestly"  mind  as  against  the  "organiza- 
tional" mind  lead  you  into  thinking  that  you  can  locate 
things  any  differently. 

It  is  very  disarming  to  say  that  we  should  evaluate  meas- 
ures purely  on  the  basis  of  their  contribution  to  "comfort." 
But  even  "comfort,"  in  this  usage,  is  a  principle,  an  abstract 
ideal.  In  fact,  so  far  as  I  am  concerned,  it  is  much  too  ab- 
stract. Its  danger  resides  in  the  fact  that,  because  it  sounds 
familiar,  one  thinks  he  knows  what  it  means.  Don't  worry 
about  such  matters  as  the  balancing  of  the  budget,  says  Ar- 
nold. Yet  some  men  demand  it,  because  it  would  comfort 
them.  Hence,  it  is  not  a  matter  merely  of  comfort,  but  of 
whose  comfort,  comfort  spread  over  how  large  a  section  of 
the  population,  etc.  Furthermore,  though  Arnold  has  said 
much  about  the  part  that  drama  plays  in  the  activating  of 
historic  processes  (a  point  in  which  I  agree  with  him  though 
I  should  want  it  all  differently  interpreted)  one  may  legiti- 
mately be  led  to  ask,  by  his  test,  what  great  dramatizations 
of  comfort  we  have  had  to  date.  The  "comfort"  of  spiritual 
solace,  of  social  solidarity,  etc. — but  not  "creature  comfort," 
which  is  the  brand  that  Arnold  clearly  has  in  mind,  when 
182 


DEBUNKING 

he  likens  it  to  the  kind  of  comfort  provided  by  the  doctors 

for  the  inmates  of  an  asylum. 

But  that  gets  us  to  another  point,  the  matter  of  "humani- 
tarianism." 

I  believe  that  "humanitarianism"  can  also  be  singled  out 
as  an  integral  aspect  of  the  debunking  strategy.  For,  unless 
the  thinker  is  totally  antisocial,  humanitarian  elements  must 
be  engrafted  upon  modes  of  thinking  that  attribute  human 
actions  to  motives  low  in  the  scale  of  values.  The  typical 
debunker  might  write  a  book  to  prove,  for  instance,  that 
"all  people  are  crooks."  The  logical  conclusion  from  such  a 
book  would  be,  "So  let's  try  to  cheat  them  before  they  cheat 
us."  But  a  purely  humanitarian  afterthought  is  usually 
added  to  the  thesis.  Out  of  nowhere  comes  a  corrective,  that 
seems  to  say,  "Let's  try  to  help  them  not  to  be  crooks  and 
not  to  be  the  victims  of  crooks." 

Something  of  this  sort  was,  I  believe,  at  the  basis  of 
Peirce's  differences  with  William  James,  differences  that  led 
Peirce  to  call  his  own  philosophy  by  the  slightly  altered 
name,  "pragmaticism."  James  said  that  efficacy  was  the  test 
of  truth.  And  then,  as  a  humanitarian  afterthought,  he  ex- 
pressed the  hope  that  we  would  apply  this  test  only  to  "good" 
efficacy.  Peirce  resented  this  mere  annexing  of  a  corrective. 
He  sought  a  test  of  truth  whereby  the  moral  evaluation 
would  be  an  integral  part  of  the  test.  James,  as  a  humani- 
tarian pragmatist,  seemed  to  be  saying  in  effect,  "Truth  is  as 
truth  does.  But  here's  hoping  that  you'll  only  ask  it  to  do 
nice  things."  Peirce,  on  the  other  hand,  was  demanding  in 
his  "pragmaticism"  a  test  of  truth  that  would  contain,  within 
itself,  the  proper  moral  exhortation. 

Dewey's  instrumentalism  brings  out  James'  problem  even 
more  clearly,  in  so  far  as  instrumentalism  becomes  the  phi- 
183 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
losophy  of  technology  (a  philosophy  that  tends  to  confront 
the  rigidified  routines  of  technology  while  interpreting  them 
mainly  in  terms  of  liquidity).  Technology  is  a  coefficient  of 
power.  A  power  is  something  in  itself  "neutral,"  that  can  be 
used  for  either  "good"  or  "evil."  It  is  like  ballistics,  that  can 
be  employed  to  defend  a  good  cause,  or  for  Italian  aggression 
in  Ethiopia.  Dewey's  strategy  was  to  make  a  power  look  like 
a  good  power — thereby  replacing  an  ambivalence  by  an 
ambiguity.  That  technology  is  a  power  no  one  would  deny; 
but  a  power  is  ambivalent,  capable  of  good  uses  or  bad;  and 
Dewey's  job  was  the  "humanitarian"  task  of  saying  "Power 
is  the  test  of  truth,"  and  then  furtively  annexing,  "But  let 
us  mean  good  power." 

The  same  device  underlies  his  use  of  "intelligence,"  in 
The  Quest  for  Certainty.  For  it  is  obvious  that  Iago  used 
intelligence  in  obfuscating  Othello,  and  that  chemical  war- 
fare requires  a  high  degree  of  intelligence.  But  by  ambigu- 
ously equating  power  with  good  power,  and  intelligence 
with  good  intelligence,  Dewey  skirts  the  major  philosophic 
issue.  Again,  in  Liberalism  and  Social  Action,  he  calls  for  a 
social  program  that  will  free  us  for  the  "development  of  our 
capacities,"  a  plea  that  sounds  persuasive  because  we  are 
covertly  invited  to  read,  "the  development  of  our  good  ca- 
pacities." In  this  way,  he  need  not  explicitly  consider  the 
problem  (which  may,  for  all  I  know,  be  solvable)  as  to  why 
the  capacities  should  not,  in  this  particular  instance,  be  am- 
bivalent. Beginning  as  a  Hegelian,  Dewey  stressed  ambiva- 
lence. But  in  proportion  as  his  instrumentalism  stood  out  in 
its  own  right,  we  get  in  place  of  overt  ambivalence  a  covert 
humanitarian  ambiguity.1 

i  In  my  Attitudes  Toward  History  (Vol.  I,  pp.  21-23)  I  analyze  Emerson's  essay 
on  "Compensation"  as  a  strategy  for  combining  ambivalence  (that  "every  excess 

184 


DEBUNKING 

A  "nonhumanitarian"  ideal  of  truth  would,  I  think,  re- 
quire a  perspective  whereby  the  expository  and  the  hortatory 
were  contained  in  one.  Arnold,  on  the  other  hand,  must,  as 
debunker,  continually  be  making  a  distinction  between  him- 
self as  a  scientific  expositor  (or  "diagnostician")  and  himself 
as  a  civic  personality.  In  The  Symbols  of  Government,  where 
his  psychiatric  tests  of  comfort  are  brought  out  most  clearly, 
he  writes: 

From  a  humanitarian  point  of  view  the  best  govern- 
ment is  that  which  we  find  in  an  insane  asylum.  In 
such  a  government  the  physicians  in  charge  do  not 
separate  the  ideas  of  the  insane  into  any  separate  sci- 
ences such  as  law,  economics,  sociology;  nor  then  in- 
struct the  insane  as  to  the  soundness  nor  unsoundness 
of  their  ideas.  Their  aim  is  to  make  the  inmates  of  the 
asylum  as  comfortable  as  possible. 

He  says,  "The  advantages  of  such  a  theory  are  that  we 
escape  the  troublesome  assumption  that  the  human  race  is 
rational,"  and  "This  theory  eliminates  from  our  thinking 
the  moral  ideals  which  hamper  us  whenever  a  governmental 
institution  takes  practical  action.  ...  It  frees  us  from  the 


causes  a  defect")  with  optimism  (that  "there  is  no  penalty  to  virtue").  Emerson, 
who  had  great  influence  upon  James,  was  presumably  responding  to  the  emer- 
gence of  technological  enterprise  (power)  while  still  confronting  the  issue  in  terms 
of  good  and  evil.  James'  pragmatism  moves  us  further  into  the  purely  optimistic 
emphasis,  slighting  the  factor  of  ambivalence.  Dewey's  instrumentalism  perfects 
the  step  away  from  transcendentalism  to  a  strongly  optimistic  interpretation  of 
power.  I  was  wrong,  however,  in  saying  (in  Attitudes  Toward  History)  that  Dewey 
at  no  point  explicitly  considers  the  factor  of  ambivalence.  Ernest  Sutherland  Bates 
has  referred  me  to  several  relevant  sections  in  Dewey  and  Tuft's  Ethics  that  deal 
with  this  matter.  But  applying  the  "method  of  difference,"  we  note  how 
this  feature  drops  away,  in  proportion  as  Dewey's  Hegelian  beginnings  are  re- 
shaped into  an  independent  philosophy.  And  by  the  time  we  arrive  at  Liberalism 
and  Social  Action,  it  has  dwindled  to  the  vanishing  point.  Or  we  might  put  it  this 
way:  You  are  more  likely  to  find  the  doctrine  of  ambivalence  stressed  in  Dewey 
the  philosopher  of  education  than  in  Dewey  the  political  advocate. 

i8k 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

necessity  about  names,  and  arguing  about  the  respective 

merits  of  communism,  fascism,  or  capitalism." 

These  "advantages,"  of  course,  would  be  gained  by  outlaw- 
ing any  attempt  at  reasonable  discussion.  Such  proscriptions 
would,  to  be  sure,  avoid  the  tricks  whereby  men  combat  a 
measure  by  converting  it  into  false  moral  equivalents.  Look- 
ing only  so  far,  one  can  sympathize  strongly  with  the  inten- 
tion, at  least  until  one  arrives  at  this,  exemplifying  the  "hu- 
manitarian" breach  between  expository  truth  and  hortatory 
truth: 

Thus  the  theory  might  work  as  a  practical  philosophy 
for  politicians.  Yet  it  will  never  work  as  a  general  politi- 
cal theory.  The  realism  is  too  apparent,  as  also  is  its 
implied  scorn  of  the  human  race.  The  reasons  for  its 
failure  are  the  reasons  for  the  failure  of  all  common- 
sense  theories  of  government  in  a  rational  world.  In  the 
first  place,  it  cannot  be  an  effective  social  force  among 
the  masses  who  want  to  believe  that  government  is 
moral,  rational,  and  symmetrical.  Nor  can  it  be  satis- 
factory to  intellectuals  who  want  to  believe  that  govern- 
mental theory  is  the  product  of  ages  of  careful  scholarly 
thought.  Any  theory  based  on  a  purely  humanitarian 
ideal  that  any  one  can  understand  is  too  simple  ...  to 
support  complicated  ratiocination.  The  detailed  under- 
standing of  mechanical  and  social  organization  to  carry 
out  humanitarian  ideals  therefore  does  not  inspire  the 
intellectual. 

A  curious  dilemma  confronts  the  social  and  economic 

sciences.  These  sciences  must  act  as  a  kind  of  folklore, 

and  to  perform  this  function  must  be  believed  as  truths. 

They  must  support  a  spiritual  government,  and  to  give 

186 


DEBUNKING 

this  support  must  depart  from  a  real  and  enter  into  an 
ideal  world.  They  must  give  practical  institutions  a 
logical  place  in  that  ideal  world,  without  interfering 
with  their  freedom  in  practical  affairs.  These  functions 
cannot  be  fulfilled  by  a  mere  theory  that  the  world 
should  be  governed  like  an  insane  asylum.  Therefore 
the  illustration  with  which  we  began  this  chapter  will 
never  appear  in  the  future  as  the  guiding  star  of  any 
human  organization.  Though  it  permits  us  to  escape 
from  the  confusing  consequences  of  calling  men  ra- 
tional, it  is  defective  as  a  working  philosophy  because 
of  its  contemptuous  attitude  toward  the  human  race. 

In  sum,  the  author's  proposed  perspective,  adopted  for 
expository  purposes,  "does  not  endow  mankind  with  the 
dignity,  or  the  hope  or  the  tragedy  which  most  persons  feel 
that  it  actually  possesses."  This  kind  of  "enlightenment," 
then,  would  tell  us  a  kind  of  isolate  truth  that  is  opposed  to 
social  truth.  Indeed,  when  social  truth  is  viewed  from  this 
perspective,  it  becomes  little  better  than  a  kind  of  benign 
self-deception. 

If  such  a  drastic  presentation  of  the  case  is  necessary,  there 
is  no  good  ground  for  inveighing  against  it.  But  I  question 
whether  it  is  necessary.  Must  we  take  on  such  cumbersome 
baggage!  And  what  a  twisted  picture  of  human  conduct  we 
get  as  a  result,  with  the  citizen's  truth  and  the  scientist's 
truth  vastly  at  odds,  and  the  scientist's  truth  about  human 
conduct  becoming  something  which  the  citizen  must  lie 
about,  in  order  to  act  for  any  political  ideal,  whether  of 
right,  center,  or  left!  It  is  obvious  that,  in  a  state  like  ours, 
where  there  are  extreme  conflicts  of  interests,  a  government 
that  seeks  to  mediate  somewhat  among  these  conflicts  must 
187 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
adopt  measures  somewhat  at  odds  with  one  another.  But 
need  we  leap  from  this  to  the  conclusion  that  the  whole  basis 
of  rationality  is  thereby  swept  away?  Can  there  not  be,  in 
fact,  rationales  that  discuss  precisely  this  kind  of  conflict,  its 
origin  in  the  present  structure  of  property  relationships,  and 
the  organizational  policies  that  would  follow  from  such  prin- 
ciples? In  one's  way  of  sizing  up  all  this,  one  might  very  well 
be  wrong — but  must  he  necessarily  be  irrational?  Or  his  ra- 
tionale itself  may  take  on  nonrational,  or  even  irrational 
ingredients,  without  obliging  us  to  consider  such  accretions 
as  the  essence  of  his  philosophy. 

I  personally  contend  that  there  is  no  need  for  such  state- 
ment of  the  case  as  Arnold  presents.  There  is  no  need  for  the 
humanitarian  afterthought  at  all,  making  for  the  kind  of 
breach  between  exposition  and  exhortation  that  offers  you 
a  "true"  picture  of  mankind  and  then  tells  you  that  you 
must  act  on  the  basis  of  a  different,  "illusory"  picture.  There 
is  no  need  for  all  this  overt  throwing-out  and  covert  taking- 
back.  People,  taken  by  and  large,  are  acting  reasonably 
enough,  within  their  frame  of  reference.  This  frame  of 
reference  may  not  be  large  enough  to  encompass  all  the  im- 
portant factors  operating  today.  Hence,  they  need  a  still 
wider  frame  of  reference.  Admittedly,  those  who  would  up- 
hold the  status  quo,  and  have  a  grip  upon  the  channels  of 
information  and  instruction,  will  make  the  establishment 
of  a  wider  frame  quite  difficult,  perhaps  even  impossible. 
But  that  is  no  ground  for  asking  that  we  try  to  drop  the 
whole  attempt,  substituting  a  purely  cameralistic  point  of 
view  towards  administrative  problems.  It  is  precisely  be- 
cause our  adepts  at  organizational  activities  have  run  into 
difficulties,  precisely  because  the  organizations  do  not  fit 
properly  with  one  another,  that  we  must  seek  some  more 
188 


DEBUNKING 

comprehensive  rationale  for  discussing  the  situation  in  its 

broader  aspects,  and  adopting  measures  accordingly. 

Towards  the  end  of  The  Folklore  of  Capitalism,  Arnold 
seems  to  show  some  awareness  of  this  more  mature  attitude 
towards  his  theme.  The  pure  debunker  begins  to  drop  away, 
and  propositions  of  hortatory  cast  emerge.  I  have  tried  to 
show  how  badly  they  fit  with  the  farcical  ingredients  in  his 
book.  And  I  am  trying  to  suggest  that  a  proper  presentation 
of  his  thesis  would  have  required  no  such  ambiguous  tactics. 
I  see  no  good  reason,  except  perversities  arising  in  response 
to  the  complexities  of  our  times,  why  one  should  have  to 
treat  the  exposition  of  human  motives  as  synonymous  with 
the  debunking  of  human  motives.  And  I  hold  that,  if  one 
refuses  to  accept  this  equation,  one  may  seek  rather  such 
perspectives  as  interpret  human  events  by  making  scientific 
diagnosis  and  moral  exhortation  integral  aspects  of  one  pro- 
gram. 

Since  I  was  here  concerned  primarily  with  bringing  out 
the  aspects  of  Arnold's  book  that  had  to  do  with  the  general 
subject  of  "motives,"  I  have  necessarily  failed  to  give  a  total 
picture  of  the  book  itself.  Hence,  I  should  like  to  add  a  kind 
of  "humanitarian  afterthought"  of  my  own,  for  correcting 
this  special  emphasis.  The  most  valuable  feature  of  Arnold's 
book,  I  think,  resides  in  his  evidence  showing  the  nature 
of  "business  government"  in  the  contemporary  state.  That 
is,  he  "debunks,"  by  the  amassing  of  much  convincing  evi- 
dence, the  current  tendency  to  believe  that  "business"  and 
"government"  are  antithetical  types.  And  he  does  this  by 
showing  the  elements  of  feudal  autocratic  government  oper- 
ating in  the  conduct  of  business  itself.  Business  enterprises, 
you  come  to  realize,  are  hardly  other  than  governments  with- 
189 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

out  parliaments.  However,  the  presentation  of  this  thesis  is 
interwoven  with  his  logically  unrelated  account  of  human 
motives,  with  the  unnecessary  responsibilities  of  this  view. 
Hence,  we  find  interpreted  as  "ritual"  the  methods  whereby 
the  same  management  whose  policies  threw  a  concern  into 
bankruptcy  make  additional  profits  out  of  its  reorganization 
and  are  left  afterwards  in  control.  One  might  with  as  much 
justice  treat  as  "ritual"  a  trained  thief's  technique  for  pick- 
ing a  man's  pockets.  Or,  if  you  don't  like  that  analogy,  which 
is  clear  enough  but  prejudicial  in  its  overtones,  think  up  a 
kindlier  one,  along  these  lines:  Certain  men  have  been  en- 
joying tenures  of  office  that  bring  them  material  rewards, 
and  they  so  use  the  current  structure  of  law  and  representa- 
tion as  to  perpetuate  their  enjoyment  of  such  tenure.  You 
may,  if  you  will,  maintain  that  the  complex  of  meanings  on 
the  basis  of  which  they  act  is  inadequate  in  shaping  a  way 
of  life  for  either  themselves  or  their  victims.  You  may  say 
that  the  requirements  of  the  state  as  a  whole  are  at  odds  with 
the  requirements  of  these  minor  groups.  But  that  would  be 
quite  different  from  a  claim  that  "abstract  ideals"  are  in 
themselves  purely  a  matter  of  ritual  and  illusion. 


190 


THE  RHETORIC 

OF  HITLER'S  "RATTLE" 


THE  appearance  of  Mein  Kampf  in  unexpurgated  transla- 
tion has  called  forth  far  too  many  vandalistic  comments. 
There  are  other  ways  of  burning  books  than  on  the  pyre — 
and  the  favorite  method  of  the  hasty  reviewer  is  to  deprive 
himself  and  his  readers  by  inattention.  I  maintain  that  it  is 
thoroughly  vandalistic  for  the  reviewer  to  content  himself 
with  the  mere  inflicting  of  a  few  symbolic  wounds  upon  this 
book  and  its  author,  of  an  intensity  varying  with  the  re- 
sources of  the  reviewer  and  the  time  at  his  disposal.  Hitler's 
"Battle"  is  exasperating,  even  nauseating;  yet  the  fact  re- 
mains: If  the  reviewer  but  knocks  off  a  few  adverse  attitu- 
dinizings  and  calls  it  a  day,  with  a  guaranty  in  advance  that 
his  article  will  have  a  favorable  reception  among  the  decent 
members  of  our  population,  he  is  contributing  more  to  our 
gratification  than  to  our  enlightenment. 

Here  is  the  testament  of  a  man  who  swung  a  great  people 
into  his  wake.  Let  us  watch  it  carefully;  and  let  us  watch 
it,  not  merely  to  discover  some  grounds  for  prophesying 
what  political  move  is  to  follow  Munich,  and  what  move  to 
follow  that  move,  etc.;  let  us  try  also  to  discover  what  kind 
of  "medicine"  this  medicine-man  has  concocted,  that  we 
may  know,  with  greater  accuracy,  exactly  what  to  guard 
against,  if  we  are  to  forestall  the  concocting  of  similar  medi- 
cine in  America. 

191 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

Already,  in  many  quarters  of  our  country,  we  are  "be- 
yond" the  stage  where  we  are  being  saved  from  Nazism  by 
our  virtues.  And  fascist  integration  is  being  staved  off, 
rather,  by  the  conflicts  among  our  vices.  Our  vices  cannot 
get  together  in  a  grand  united  front  of  prejudices;  and  the 
result  of  this  frustration,  if  or  until  they  succeed  in  sur- 
mounting it,  speaks,  as  the  Bible  might  say,  "in  the  name 
of"  democracy.  Hitler  found  a  panacea,  a  "cure  for  what 
ails  you,"  a  "snakeoil,"  that  made  such  sinister  unifying 
possible  within  his  own  nation.  And  he  was  helpful  enough 
to  put  his  cards  face  up  on  the  table,  that  we  might  examine 
his  hands.  Let  us,  then,  for  God's  sake,  examine  them.  This 
book  is  the  well  of  Nazi  magic;  crude  magic,  but  effective. 
A  people  trained  in  pragmatism  should  want  to  inspect  this 
magic. 


Every  movement  that  would  recruit  its  followers  from 
among  many  discordant  and  divergent  bands,  must  have 
some  spot  towards  which  all  roads  lead.  Each  man  may  get 
there  in  his  own  way,  but  it  must  be  the  one  unifying  center 
of  reference  for  all.  Hitler  considered  this  matter  carefully, 
and  decided  that  this  center  must  be  not  merely  a  centraliz- 
ing hub  of  ideas,  but  a  mecca  geographically  located,  towards 
which  all  eyes  could  turn  at  the  appointed  hours  of  prayer 
(or,  in  this  case,  the  appointed  hours  of  prayer-in-reverse, 
the  hours  of  vituperation).  So  he  selected  Munich,  as  the 
materialization  of  his  unifying  panacea.  As  he  puts  it: 

The  geo-political  importance  of  a  center  of  a  move- 
ment cannot  be  overrated.  Only  the  presence  of  such 
a  center  and  of  a  place,  bathed  in  the  magic  of  a  Mecca 
192 


RHETORIC    OF    HITLER'S    "BATTLE" 

or  a  Rome,  can  at  length  give  a  movement  that  force 
which  is  rooted  in  the  inner  unity  and  in  the  recogni- 
tion of  a  hand  that  represents  this  unity. 

If  a  movement  must  have  its  Rome,  it  must  also  have  its 
devil.  For  as  Russell  pointed  out  years  ago,  an  important  in- 
gredient of  unity  in  the  Middle  Ages  (an  ingredient  that 
long  did  its  unifying  work  despite  the  many  factors  driving 
towards  disunity)  was  the  symbol  of  a  common  enemy,  the 
Prince  of  Evil  himself.  Men  who  can  unite  on  nothing  else 
can  unite  on  the  basis  of  a  foe  shared  by  all.  Hitler  himself 
states  the  case  very  succinctly: 

As  a  whole,  and  at  all  times,  the  efficiency  of  the  truly 
national  leader  consists  primarily  in  preventing  the  di- 
vision of  the  attention  of  a  people,  and  always  in  con- 
centrating it  on  a  single  enemy.  The  more  uniformly 
the  fighting  will  of  a  people  is  put  into  action,  the 
greater  will  be  the  magnetic  force  of  the  movement  and 
the  more  powerful  the  impetus  of  the  blow.  It  is  part 
of  the  genius  of  a  great  leader  to  make  adversaries  of 
different  fields  appear  as  always  belonging  to  one  cate- 
gory only,  because  to  weak  and  unstable  characters  the 
knowledge  that  there  are  various  enemies  will  lead  only 
too  easily  to  incipient  doubts  as  to  their  own  cause. 

As  soon  as  the  wavering  masses  find  themselves  con- 
fronted with  too  many  enemies,  objectivity  at  once  steps 
in,  and  the  question  is  raised  whether  actually  all  the 
others  are  wrong  and  their  own  nation  or  their  own 
movement  alone  is  right. 

Also  with  this  comes  the  first  paralysis  of  their  own 
strength.  Therefore,  a  number  of  essentially  different 
!93 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

enemies  must  always  be  regarded  as  one  in  such  a  way 
that  in  the  opinion  of  the  mass  of  one's  own  adherents 
the  war  is  being  waged  against  one  enemy  alone.  This 
strengthens  the  belief  in  one's  own  cause  and  increases 
one's  bitterness  against  the  attacker. 

As  everyone  knows,  this  policy  was  exemplified  in  his 
selection  of  an  "international"  devil,  the  "international 
Jew"  (the  Prince  was  international,  universal,  "catholic"). 
This  materialization  of  a  religious  pattern  is,  I  think,  one 
terrifically  effective  weapon  of  propaganda  in  a  period  where 
religion  has  been  progressively  weakened  by  many  centuries 
of  capitalist  materialism.  You  need  but  go  back  to  the  ser- 
monizing of  centuries  to  be  reminded  that  religion  had  a 
powerful  enemy  long  before  organized  atheism  came  upon 
the  scene.  Religion  is  based  upon  the  "prosperity  of  pov- 
erty," upon  the  use  of  ways  for  converting  our  sufferings 
and  handicaps  into  a  good — but  capitalism  is  based  upon 
the  prosperity  of  acquisitions,  the  only  scheme  of  value,  in 
fact,  by  which  its  proliferating  store  of  gadgets  could  be 
sold,  assuming  for  the  moment  that  capitalism  had  not  got 
so  drastically  in  its  own  way  that  it  can't  sell  its  gadgets 
even  after  it  has  trained  people  to  feel  that  human  dignity, 
the  "higher  standard  of  living,"  could  be  attained  only  by 
their  vast  private  accumulation. 

So,  we  have,  as  unifying  step  No.  1,  the  international 
devil  materialized,  in  the  visible,  point-to-able  form  of  peo- 
ple with  a  certain  kind  of  "blood,"  a  burlesque  of  con- 
temporary neo-positivism's  ideal  of  meaning,  which  insists 
upon  a  material  reference. 

Once  Hitler  has  thus  essentialized  his  enemy,  all  "proof" 
henceforth  is  automatic.  If  you  point  out  the  enormous 
194 


RHETORIC  OF  HITLER'S  "BATTLE'' 
amount  of  evidence  to  show  that  the  Jewish  worker  is  at 
odds  with  the  "international  Jew  stock  exchange  capitalist," 
Hitler  replies  with  one  hundred  per  cent  regularity:  That 
is  one  more  indication  of  the  cunning  with  which  the  "Jew- 
ish plot"  is  being  engineered.  Or  would  you  point  to 
"Aryans"  who  do  the  same  as  his  conspiratorial  Jews?  Very 
well;  that  is  proof  that  the  "Aryan"  has  been  "seduced"  by 
the  Jew. 

The  sexual  symbolism  that  runs  through  Hitler's  book, 
lying  in  wait  to  draw  upon  the  responses  of  contemporary 
sexual  values,  is  easily  characterized:  Germany  in  dispersion 
is  the  "dehorned  Siegfried."  The  masses  are  "feminine."  As 
such,  they  desire  to  be  led  by  a  dominating  male.  This  male, 
as  orator,  woos  them — and,  when  he  has  won  them,  he  com- 
mands them.  The  rival  male,  the  villainous  Jew,  would  on 
the  contrary  "seduce"  them.  If  he  succeeds,  he  poisons  their 
blood  by  intermingling  with  them.  Whereupon,  by  purely 
associative  connections  of  ideas,  we  are  moved  into  attacks 
upon  syphilis,  prostitution,  incest,  and  other  similar  mis- 
fortunes, which  are  introduced  as  a  kind  of  "musical"  argu- 
ment when  he  is  on  the  subject  of  "blood-poisoning"  by 
intermarriage  or,  in  its  "spiritual"  equivalent,  by  the  in- 
fection of  "Jewish"  ideas,  such  as  democracy.1 

The  "medicinal"  appeal  of  the  Jew  as  scapegoat  operates 
from  another  angle.  The  middle  class  contains,  within  the 
mind  of  each  member,  a  duality:  its  members  simultane- 
ously have  a  cult  of  money  and  a  detestation  of  this  cult. 
When  capitalism  is  going  well,  this  conflict  is  left  more  or 
less  in  abeyance.  But  when  capitalism  is  balked,  it  comes  to 

i  Hitler  also  strongly  insists  upon  the  total  identification  between  leader  and 
people.  Thus,  in  wooing  the  people,  he  would  in  a  roundabout  way  be  wooing 
himself.  The  thought  might  suggest  how  the  Fiihrer,  dominating  the  feminine 
masses  by  his  diction,  would  have  an  incentive  to  remain  unmarried. 

*95 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

the  fore.  Hence,  there  is  "medicine"  for  the  "Aryan"  mem- 
bers of  the  middle  class  in  the  projective  device  of  the  scape- 
goat, whereby  the  "bad"  features  can  be  allocated  to  the 
"devil,"  and  one  can  "respect  himself"  by  a  distinction  be- 
tween "good"  capitalism  and  "bad"  capitalism,  with  those 
of  a  different  lodge  being  the  vessels  of  the  "bad"  capitalism. 
It  is  doubtless  the  "relief"  of  this  solution  that  spared  Hitler 
the  necessity  of  explaining  just  how  the  "Jewish  plot"  was 
to  work  out.  Nowhere  does  this  book,  which  is  so  full  of 
war  plans,  make  the  slightest  attempt  to  explain  the  steps 
whereby  the  triumph  of  "Jewish  Bolshevism,"  which  de- 
stroys all  finance,  will  be  the  triumph  of  "Jewish"  finance. 
Hitler  well  knows  the  point  at  which  his  "elucidations" 
should  rely  upon  the  lurid  alone. 

The  question  arises,  in  those  trying  to  gauge  Hitler:  Was 
his  selection  of  the  Jew,  as  his  unifying  devil-function,  a 
purely  calculating  act?  Despite  the  quotation  I  have  already 
given,  I  believe  that  it  was  not.  The  vigor  with  which  he 
utilized  it,  I  think,  derives  from  a  much  more  complex  state 
of  affairs.  It  seems  that,  when  Hitler  went  to  Vienna,  in  a 
state  close  to  total  poverty,  he  genuinely  suffered.  He  lived 
among  the  impoverished;  and  he  describes  his  misery  at  the 
spectacle.  He  was  sensitive  to  it;  and  his  way  of  manifesting 
this  sensitiveness  impresses  me  that  he  is,  at  this  point, 
wholly  genuine,  as  with  his  wincing  at  the  broken  family 
relationships  caused  by  alcoholism,  which  he  in  turn  re- 
lates to  impoverishment.  During  this  time  he  began  his 
attempts  at  political  theorizing;  and  his  disturbance  was 
considerably  increased  by  the  skill  with  which  Marxists 
tied  him  into  knots.  One  passage  in  particular  gives  you 
reason,  reading  between  the  lines,  to  believe  that  the  dia- 
196 


RHETORIC    OF    HITLERS    "BATTLE" 
lecticians  of  the  class  struggle,  in  their  skill  at  blasting  his 
muddled  speculations,  put  him  into  a  state  of  uncertainty 
that  was  finally  "solved"  by  rage: 

The  more  I  argued  with  them,  the  more  I  got  to 
know  their  dialectics.  First  they  counted  on  the  igno- 
rance of  their  adversary;  then,  when  there  was  no  way 
out,  they  themselves  pretended  stupidity.  If  all  this  was 
of  no  avail,  they  refused  to  understand  or  they  changed 
the  subject  when  driven  into  a  corner;  they  brought  up 
truisms,  but  they  immediately  transferred  their  accept- 
ance to  quite  different  subjects,  and,  if  attacked  again, 
they  gave  way  and  pretended  to  know  nothing  exactly. 
Wherever  one  attacked  one  of  these  prophets,  one's 
hands  seized  slimy  jelly;  it  slipped  through  one's  fingers 
only  to  collect  again  in  the  next  moment.  If  one  smote 
one  of  them  so  thoroughly  that,  with  the  bystanders 
watching,  he  could  but  agree,  and  if  one  thus  thought 
he  had  advanced  at  least  one  step,  one  was  greatly  as- 
tonished the  following  day.  The  Jew  did  not  in  the  least 
remember  the  day  before,  he  continued  to  talk  in  the 
same  old  strain  as  if  nothing  had  happened,  and  if  in- 
dignantly confronted,  he  pretended  to  be  astonished 
and  could  not  remember  anything  except  that  his  as- 
sertions had  already  been  proved  true  the  day  before. 

Often  I  was  stunned. 

One  did  not  know  what  to  admire  more:  their  glib- 
ness  of  tongue  or  their  skill  in  lying. 

I  gradually  began  to  hate  them. 

At  this  point,  I  think,  he  is  tracing  the  spontaneous  rise 
of  his  anti-Semitism.  He  tells  how,  once  he  had  discovered 
*97 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
the  "cause"  of  the  misery  about  him,  he  could  confront 
it.  Where  he  had  had  to  avert  his  eyes,  he  could  now  posi- 
tively welcome  the  scene.  Here  his  drastic  structure  of  ac- 
ceptance was  being  formed.  He  tells  of  the  "internal  hap- 
piness" that  descended  upon  him. 

This  was  the  time  in  which  the  greatest  change  I  was 
ever  to  experience  took  place  in  me. 

From  a  feeble  cosmopolite  I  turned  into  a  fanatical 
anti-Semite, 

and  thence  we  move,  by  one  of  those  associational  tricks 
which  he  brings  forth  at  all  strategic  moments,  into  a  vision 
of  the  end  of  the  world — out  of  which  in  turn  he  emerges 
with  his  slogan:  "I  am  acting  in  the  sense  of  the  Almighty 
Creator:  By  warding  off  Jews  I  am  fighting  for  the  Lord's 
work"  (italics  his). 

He  talks  of  this  transition  as  a  period  of  "double  life,"  a 
struggle  of  "reason"  and  "reality"  against  his  "heart."  - 
It  was  as  "bitter"  as  it  was  "blissful."  And  finally,  it  was 

-  Other  aspects  of  the  career  symbolism:  Hitler's  book  begins:  "Today  I  consider 
it  my  good  fortune  that  Fate  designated  Braunau  on  the  Inn  as  the  place  of  my 
birth.  For  this  small  town  is  situated  on  the  border  between  those  two  German 
States,  the  reunion  of  which  seems,  at  least  to  us  of  the  younger  generation,  a  task 
to  be  furthered  with  every  means  our  lives  long,"  an  indication  of  his  "transitional" 
mind,  what  Wordsworth  might  have  called  the  "borderer."  He  neglects  to  give  the 
date  of  his  birth,  1889,  which  is  supplied  by  the  editors.  Again  there  is  a  certain 
"correctness"  here,  as  Hitler  was  not  "born"  until  many  years  later — but  he  does 
give  the  exact  date  of  his  war  wounds,  which  were  indeed  formative.  During  his 
early  years  in  Vienna  and  Munich,  he  foregoes  protest,  on  the  grounds  that  he  is 
"nameless."  And  when  his  party  is  finally  organized  and  effective,  he  stresses  the 
fact  that  his  "nameless"  period  is  over  (i.  e.,  he  has  shaped  himself  an  identity). 
When  reading  in  an  earlier  passage  of  his  book  some  generalizations  to  the  effect 
that  one  should  not  crystallize  his  political  views  until  he  is  thirty,  I  made  a  note: 
"See  what  Hitler  does  at  thirty."  I  felt  sure  that,  though  such  generalizations  may 
be  dubious  as  applied  to  people  as  a  whole,  they  must,  given  the  Hitler  type  of 
mind  (with  his  complete  identification  between  himself  and  his  followers),  be  valid 
statements  about  himself.  One  sliould  do  what  he  did.  The  hunch  was  verified: 
about  the  age  of  thirty  Hitler,  in  a  group  of  seven,  began  working  with  the  party 
that  was  to  conquer  Germany.  I  trace  these  steps  particularly  because  I  believe 

I98 


RHETORIC  OF  HITLER'S  "BATTLE" 
"reason"  that  won!  Which  prompts  us  to  note  that  those 
who  attack  Hitlerism  as  a  cult  of  the  irrational  should  emend 
their  statements  to  this  extent:  irrational  it  is,  but  it  is  car- 
ried on  under  the  slogan  of  "Reason."  Similarly,  his  cult  of 
war  is  developed  "in  the  name  of"  humility,  love,  and  peace. 
Judged  on  a  quantitative  basis,  Hitler's  book  certainly  falls 
under  the  classification  of  hate.  Its  venom  is  everywhere, 
its  charity  is  sparse.  But  the  rationalized  family  tree  for  this 
hate  situates  it  in  "Aryan  love."  Some  deep-probing  Ger- 
man poets,  whose  work  adumbrated  the  Nazi  movement,  did 
gravitate  towards  thinking  in  the  name  of  war,  irrationality, 
and  hate.  But  Hitler  was  not  among  them.  After  all,  when 
it  is  so  easy  to  draw  a  doctrine  of  war  out  of  a  doctrine  of 
peace,  why  should  the  astute  politician  do  otherwise,  par- 
ticularly when  Hitler  has  slung  together  his  doctrines,  with- 
out the  slightest  effort  at  logical  symmetry?  Furthermore, 
Church  thinking  always  got  to  its  wars  in  Hitler's  "sounder" 
manner;  and  the  patterns  of  Hitler's  thought  are  a  bastard- 
ized or  caricatured  version  of  religious  thought. 

I  spoke  of  Hitler's  fury  at  the  dialectics  of  those  who  op- 
posed him  when  his  structure  was  in  the  stage  of  scaffolding. 
From  this  we  may  move  to  another  tremendously  impor- 
tant aspect  of  his  theory:  his  attack  upon  the  parliamentary. 
For  it  is  again,  I  submit,  an  important  aspect  of  his  medi- 
cine, in  its  function  as  medicine  for  him  personally  and  as 
medicine  for  those  who  were  later  to  identify  themselves 
with  him. 


that  the  orator  who  has  a  strong  sense  of  his  own  "rebirth"  has  this  to  draw  upon 
when  persuading  his  audiences  that  his  is  offering  them  the  way  to  a  "new  life." 
However,  I  see  no  categorical  objection  to  this  attitude;  its  menace  derives  solely 
from  the  values  in  which  it  is  exemplified.  They  may  be  wholesome  or  unwhole- 
some. If  they  are  unwholesome,  but  backed  by  conviction,  the  basic  sincerity  of 
the  conviction  acts  as  a  sound  virtue  to  reinforce  a  vice — and  this  combination  is 
the  most  disastrous  one  that  a  people  can  encounter  in  a  demagogue. 

199 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

There  is  a  "problem"  in  the  parliament — and  nowhere 
was  this  problem  more  acutely  in  evidence  than  in  the  pre- 
war Vienna  that  was  to  serve  as  Hitler's  political  schooling. 
For  the  parliament,  at  its  best,  is  a  "babel"  of  voices.  There 
is  the  wrangle  of  men  representing  interests  lying  awk- 
wardly on  the  bias  across  one  another,  sometimes  opposing, 
sometimes  vaguely  divergent.  Morton  Prince's  psychiatric 
study  of  "Miss  Beauchamp,"  the  case  of  a  woman  split  into 
several  sub-personalities  at  odds  with  one  another,  variously 
combining  under  hypnosis,  and  frequently  in  turmoil,  is 
the  allegory  of  a  democracy  fallen  upon  evil  days.  The  par- 
liament of  the  Habsburg  Empire  just  prior  to  its  collapse 
was  an  especially  drastic  instance  of  such  disruption,  such 
vocal  diaspora,  with  movements  that  would  reduce  one  to  a 
disintegrated  mass  of  fragments  if  he  attempted  to  encom- 
pass the  totality  of  its  discordancies.  So  Hitler,  suffering 
under  the  alienation  of  poverty  and  confusion,  yearning  for 
some  integrative  core,  came  to  take  this  parliament  as  the 
basic  symbol  of  all  that  he  would  move  away  from.  He 
damned  the  tottering  Habsburg  Empire  as  a  "State  of  Na- 
tionalities." The  many  conflicting  voices  of  the  spokesmen 
of  the  many  political  blocs  arose  from  the  fact  that  various 
separationist  movements  of  a  nationalistic  sort  had  arisen 
within  a  Catholic  imperial  structure  formed  prior  to  the 
nationalistic  emphasis  and  slowly  breaking  apart  under  its 
development.  So,  you  had  this  Babel  of  voices;  and,  by  the 
method  of  associative  mergers,  using  ideas  as  imagery,  it 
became  tied  up,  in  the  Hitler  rhetoric,  with  "Babylon," 
Vienna  as  the  city  of  poverty,  prostitution,  immorality,  coali- 
tions, half-measures,  incest,  democracy  (i.  e.,  majority  rule 
leading  to  "lack  of  personal  responsibility"),  death,  interna- 
tionalism, seduction,  and  anything  else  of  thumbs-down  sort 
200 


RHETORIC    OF    HITLER'S    "BATTLE" 

the  associative  enterprise  cared  to  add  on  this  side  of  the 

balance. 

Hitler's  way  of  treating  the  parliamentary  babel,  I  am 
sorry  to  say,  was  at  one  important  point  not  much  different 
from  that  of  the  customary  editorial  in  our  own  newspapers. 
Every  conflict  among  the  parliamentary  spokesmen  repre- 
sents a  corresponding  conflict  among  the  material  interests 
of  the  groups  for  whom  they  are  speaking.  But  Hitler  did 
not  discuss  the  babel  from  this  angle.  He  discussed  it  on  a 
purely  symptomatic  basis.  The  strategy  of  our  orthodox 
press,  in  thus  ridiculing  the  cacophonous  verbal  output  of 
Congress,  is  obvious:  by  thus  centering  attack  upon  the 
symptoms  of  business  conflict,  as  they  reveal  themselves  on 
the  dial  of  political  wrangling,  and  leaving  the  underlying 
cause,  the  business  conflicts  themselves,  out  of  the  case,  they 
can  gratify  the  very  public  they  would  otherwise  alienate: 
namely,  the  businessmen  who  are  the  activating  members  of 
their  reading  public.  Hitler,  however,  went  them  one  better. 
For  not  only  did  he  stress  the  purely  symptomatic  attack 
here.  He  proceeded  to  search  for  the  "cause."  And  this 
"cause,"  of  course,  he  derived  from  his  medicine,  his  racial 
theory  by  which  he  could  give  a  noneconomic  interpretation 
of  a  phenomenon  economically  engendered. 

Here  again  is  where  Hitler's  corrupt  use  of  religious  pat- 
terns comes  to  the  fore.  Church  thought,  being  primarily 
concerned  with  matters  of  the  "personality,"  with  problems 
of  moral  betterment,  naturally,  and  I  think  rightly,  stresses 
as  a  necessary  feature,  the  act  of  will  upon  the  part  of  the 
individual.  Hence  its  resistance  to  a  purely  "environmental" 
account  of  human  ills.  Hence  its  emphasis  upon  the  "per- 
son." Hence  its  proneness  to  seek  a  noneconomic  explana- 
tion of  economic  phenomena.  Hitler's  proposal  of  a  non- 
201 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
economic  "cause"  for  the  disturbances  thus  had  much  to 
recommend  it  from  this  angle.  And,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  it 
was  Lueger's  Christian-Social  Party  in  Vienna  that  taught 
Hitler  the  tactics  of  tying  up  a  program  of  social  betterment 
with  an  anti-Semitic  "unifier."  The  two  parties  that  he  care- 
fully studied  at  that  time  were  this  Catholic  faction  and 
Schoenerer's  Pan-German  group.  And  his  analysis  of  their 
attainments  and  shortcomings,  from  the  standpoint  of  dema- 
gogic efficacy,  is  an  extremely  astute  piece  of  work,  revealing 
how  carefully  this  man  used  the  current  situation  in  Vienna 
as  an  experimental  laboratory  for  the  maturing  of  his  plans. 
His  unification  device,  we  may  summarize,  had  the  fol- 
lowing important  features: 

(1)  Inborn  dignity.  In  both  religious  and  humanistic  pat- 
terns of  thought,  a  "natural  born"  dignity  of  man  is  stressed. 
And  this  categorical  dignity  is  considered  to  be  an  attribute 
of  all  men,  if  they  will  but  avail  themselves  of  it,  by  right 
thinking  and  right  living.  But  Hitler  gives  this  ennobling 
attitude  an  ominous  twist  by  his  theories  of  race  and  nation, 
whereby  the  "Aryan"  is  elevated  above  all  others  by  the 
innate  endowment  of  his  blood,  while  other  "races,"  in  par- 
ticular Jews  and  Negroes,  are  innately  inferior.  This  sinister 
secularized  revision  of  Christian  theology  thus  puts  the 
sense  of  dignity  upon  a  fighting  basis,  requiring  the  con- 
quest of  "inferior  races."  After  the  defeat  of  Germany  in  the 
World  War,  there  were  especially  strong  emotional  needs 
that  this  compensatory  doctrine  of  an  inborn  superiority 
could  gratify. 

(2)  Projection  device.  The  "curative"  process  that  comes 
with  the  ability  to  hand  over  one's  ills  to  a  scapegoat,  thereby 
getting  purification  by  dissociation.  This  was  especially 
medicinal,  since  the  sense  of  frustration  leads  to  a  self- 
202 


RHETORIC  OF  HITLER'S  "BATTLE" 
questioning.  Hence  if  one  can  hand  over  his  infirmities  to 
a  vessel,  or  "cause,"  outside  the  self,  one  can  battle  an  ex- 
ternal enemy  instead  of  battling  an  enemy  within.  And  the 
greater  one's  internal  inadequacies,  the  greater  the  amount 
of  evils  one  can  load  upon  the  back  of  "the  enemy."  This 
device  is  furthermore  given  a  semblance  of  reason  because 
the  individual  properly  realizes  that  he  is  not  alone  respon- 
sible for  his  condition.  There  are  inimical  factors  in  the 
scene  itself.  And  he  wants  to  have  them  "placed,"  preferably 
in  a  way  that  would  require  a  minimum  change  in  the  ways 
of  thinking  to  which  he  had  been  accustomed.  This  was 
especially  appealing  to  the  middle  class,  who  were  encour- 
aged to  feel  that  they  could  conduct  their  businesses  with- 
out any  basic  change  whatever,  once  the  businessmen  of  a 
different  "race"  were  eliminated. 

(3)  Symbolic  rebirth.  Another  aspect  of  the  two  features 
already  noted.  The  projective  device  of  the  scapegoat,  cou- 
pled with  the  Hitlerite  doctrine  of  inborn  racial  superiority, 
provides  its  followers  with  a  "positive"  view  of  life.  They 
can  again  get  the  feel  of  moving  forward,  towards  a  goal  (a 
promissory  feature  of  which  Hitler  makes  much).  In  Hitler, 
as  the  group's  prophet,  such  rebirth  involved  a  symbolic 
change  of  lineage.  Here,  above  all,  we  see  Hitler  giving  a 
malign  twist  to  a  benign  aspect  of  Christian  thought.  For 
whereas  the  Pope,  in  the  familistic  pattern  of  thought  basic 
to  the  Church,  stated  that  the  Hebrew  prophets  were  the 
spiritual  ancestors  of  Christianity,  Hitler  uses  this  same 
mode  of  thinking  in  reverse.  He  renounces  this  "ancestry" 
in  a  "materialistic"  way  by  voting  himself  and  the  mem- 
bers of  his  lodge  a  different  "blood  stream"  from  that  of 
the  Jews. 

(4)  Commercial  use.  Hitler  obviously  here  had  something 
203 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
to  sell — and  it  was  but  a  question  of  time  until  he  sold  it 
(i.  e.,  got  financial  backers  for  his  movement).  For  it  pro- 
vided a  noneconomic  interpretation  of  economic  ills.  As 
such,  it  served  with  maximum  efficiency  in  deflecting  the 
attention  from  the  economic  factors  involved  in  modern 
conflict;  hence  by  attacking  "Jew  finance"  instead  of  fi- 
nance, it  could  stimulate  an  enthusiastic  movement  that  left 
"Aryan"  finance  in  control. 

Never  once,  throughout  his  book,  does  Hitler  deviate 
from  the  above  formula.  Invariably,  he  ends  his  diatribes 
against  contemporary  economic  ills  by  a  shift  into  an  in- 
sistence that  we  must  get  to  the  "true"  cause,  which  is  cen- 
tered in  "race."  The  "Aryan"  is  "constructive";  the  Jew  is 
"destructive";  and  the  "Aryan,"  to  continue  his  construc- 
tion, must  destroy  the  Jewish  destruction.  The  Aryan,  as  the 
vessel  of  love,  must  hate  the  Jewish  hate. 

Perhaps  the  most  enterprising  use  of  his  method  is  in  his 
chapter,  "The  Causes  of  the  Collapse,"  where  he  refuses  to 
consider  Germany's  plight  as  in  any  basic  way  connected 
with  the  consequences  of  war.  Economic  factors,  he  insists, 
are  "only  of  second  or  even  third  importance,"  but  "politi- 
cal, ethical-moral,  as  well  as  factors  of  blood  and  race,  are 
of  the  first  importance."  His  rhetorical  steps  are  especially 
interesting  here,  in  that  he  begins  by  seeming  to  flout  the 
national  susceptibilities:  "The  military  defeat  of  the  Ger- 
man people  is  not  an  undeserved  catastrophe,  but  rather  a 
deserved  punishment  by  eternal  retribution."  He  then  pro- 
ceeds to  present  the  military  collapse  as  but  a  "consequence 
of  moral  poisoning,  visible  to  all,  the  consequence  of  a  de- 
crease in  the  instinct  of  self-preservation  .  .  .  which  had 
already  begun  to  undermine  the  foundations  of  the  people 
and  the  Reich  many  years  before."  This  moral  decay  derived 
204 


RHETORIC  OF  HITLER'S  "BATTLE'' 
from  "a  sin  against  the  blood  and  the  degradation  of  the 
race,"  so  its  innerness  was  an  outerness  after  all:  the  Jew, 
who  thereupon  gets  saddled  with  a  vast  amalgamation  of 
evils,  among  them  being  capitalism,  democracy,  pacifism, 
journalism,  poor  housing,  modernism,  big  cities,  loss  of  re- 
ligion, half  measures,  ill  health,  and  weakness  of  the  mon- 
arch. 


Hitler  had  here  another  important  psychological  ingre- 
dient to  play  upon.  If  a  State  is  in  economic  collapse  (and 
his  theories,  tentatively  taking  shape  in  the  pre-war  Vienna, 
were  but  developed  with  greater  efficiency  in  post-war  Mu- 
nich), you  cannot  possibly  derive  dignity  from  economic 
stability.  Dignity  must  come  first — and  if  you  possess  it,  and 
implement  it,  from  it  may  follow  its  economic  counterpart. 
There  is  much  justice  to  this  line  of  reasoning,  so  far  as  it 
goes.  A  people  in  collapse,  suffering  under  economic  frustra- 
tion and  the  defeat  of  nationalistic  aspirations,  with  the  very 
midrib  of  their  integrative  efforts  (the  army)  in  a  state  of 
dispersion,  have  little  other  than  some  "spiritual"  basis  to 
which  they  could  refer  their  nationalistic  dignity.  Hence,  the 
categorical  dignity  of  superior  race  was  a  perfect  recipe  for 
the  situation.  It  was  "spiritual"  in  so  far  as  it  was  "above" 
crude  economic  "interests,"  but  it  was  "materialized"  at  the 
psychologically  "right"  spot  in  that  "the  enemy"  was  some- 
thing you  could  see. 

Furthermore,  you  had  the  desire  for  unity,  such  as  a  dis- 
cussion of  class  conflict,  on  the  basis  of  conflicting  interests, 
could  not  satisfy.  The  yearning  for  unity  is  so  great  that 
people  are  always  willing  to  meet  you  halfway  if  you  will 
give  it  to  them  by  fiat,  by  flat  statement,  regardless  of  the 
205 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
facts.  Hence,  Hitler  consistently  refused  to  consider  internal 
political  conflict  on  the  basis  of  conflicting  interests.  Here 
again,  he  could  draw  upon  a  religious  pattern,  by  insisting 
upon  a  personal  statement  of  the  relation  between  classes, 
the  relation  between  leaders  and  followers,  each  group  in 
its  way  fulfilling  the  same  commonalty  of  interests,  as  the 
soldiers  and  captains  of  an  army  share  a  common  interest 
in  victory.  People  so  dislike  the  idea  of  internal  division  that, 
where  there  is  a  real  internal  division,  their  dislike  can  easily 
be  turned  against  the  man  or  group  who  would  so  much  as 
name  it,  let  alone  proposing  to  act  upon  it.  Their  natural 
and  justified  resentment  against  internal  division  itself,  is 
turned  against  the  diagnostician  who  states  it  as  a  fact.  This 
diagnostician,  it  is  felt,  is  the  cause  of  the  disunity  he  named. 
Cutting  in  from  another  angle,  therefore,  we  note  how 
two  sets  of  equations  were  built  up,  with  Hitler  combining 
or  coalescing  ideas  the  way  a  poet  combines  or  coalesces 
images.  On  the  one  side,  were  the  ideas,  or  images,  of  dis- 
unity, centering  in  the  parliamentary  wrangle  of  the  Habs- 
burg  "State  of  Nationalities."  This  was  offered  as  the  an- 
tithesis of  German  nationality,  which  was  presented  in  the 
curative  imagery  of  unity,  focused  upon  the  glories  of  the 
Prussian  Reich,  with  its  mecca  now  moved  to  "folkish" 
Vienna.  For  though  Hitler  at  first  attacked  the  many  "folk- 
ish" movements,  with  their  hankerings  after  a  kind  of  Wag- 
nerian mythology  of  Germanic  origins,  he  subsequently  took 
"folkish"  as  a  basic  word  by  which  to  conjure.  It  was,  after 
all,  another  noneconomic  basis  of  reference.  At  first  we  find 
him  objecting  to  "those  who  drift  about  with  the  word 
'folkish'  on  their  caps,"  and  asserting  that  "such  a  Babel  of 
opinions  cannot  serve  as  the  basis  of  a  political  fighting 
movement."  But  later  he  seems  to  have  realized,  as  he  well 
206 


RHETORIC  OF  HITLER'S  "BATTLE" 
should,  that  its  vagueness  was  a  major  point  in  its  favor. 
So  it  was  incorporated  in  the  grand  coalition  of  his  idea- 
tional imagery,  or  imagistic  ideation;  and  Chapter  XI  ends 
with  the  vision  of  "a  State  which  represents  not  a  mechanism 
of  economic  considerations  and  interests,  alien  to  the  people, 
but  a  folkish  organism." 

So,  as  against  the  disunity  equations,  already  listed  briefly 
in  our  discussion  of  his  attacks  upon  the  parliamentary,  we 
get  a  contrary  purifying  set;  the  wrangle  of  the  parliamen- 
tary is  to  be  stilled  by  the  giving  of  one  voice  to  the  whole 
people,  this  to  be  the  "inner  voice"  of  Hitler,  made  uni- 
form throughout  the  German  boundaries,  as  leader  and 
people  were  completely  identified  with  each  other.  In  sum: 
Hitler's  inner  voice,  equals  leader-people  identification, 
equals  unity,  equals  Reich,  equals  the  mecca  of  Munich, 
equals  plow,  equals  sword,  equals  work,  equals  war,  equals 
army  as  midrib,  equals  responsibility  (the  personal  respon- 
sibility of  the  absolute  ruler),  equals  sacrifice,  equals  the 
theory  of  "German  democracy"  (the  free  popular  choice  of 
the  leader,  who  then  accepts  the  responsibility,  and  demands 
absolute  obedience  in  exchange  for  his  sacrifice),  equals  love 
(with  the  masses  as  feminine),  equals  idealism,  equals  obedi- 
ence to  nature,  equals  race,  nation.3 

3  One  could  carry  out  the  equations  further,  on  both  the  disunity  and  unity 
side.  In  the  aesthetic  field,  for  instance,  we  have  expressionism  on  the  thumbs- 
down  side,  as  against  aesthetic  hygiene  on  the  thumbs-up  side.  This  again  is  a 
particularly  ironic  moment  in  Hitler's  strategy.  For  the  expressionist  movement 
was  unquestionably  a  symptom  of  unhealthiness.  It  reflected  the  increasing  aliena- 
tion that  went  with  the  movement  towards  world  war  and  the  disorganization 
after  the  world  war.  It  was  "lost,"  vague  in  identity,  a  drastically  accurate  reflec- 
tion of  the  response  to  material  confusion,  a  pathetic  attempt  by  sincere  artists  to 
make  their  wretchedness  bearable  at  least  to  the  extent  that  comes  of  giving  it  ex- 
pression. And  it  attained  its  height  during  the  period  of  wild  inflation,  when  the 
capitalist  world,  which  bases  its  morality  of  work  and  savings  upon  the  soundness 
of  its  money  structure,  had  this  last  prop  of  stability  removed.  The  anguish,  in 
short,  reflected  precisely  the  kind  of  disruption  that  made  people  ripe  for  a  Hitler. 
It  was  the  antecedent  in  a  phrase  of  which  Hitlerism  was  the  consequent.  But  by 

207 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

And,  of  course,  the  two  keystones  of  these  opposite  equa- 
tions were  Aryan  "heroism"  and  "sacrifice"  vs.  Jewish  "cun- 
ning" and  "arrogance."  Here  again  we  get  an  astounding 
caricature  of  religious  thought.  For  Hitler  presents  the  con- 
cept of  "Aryan"  superiority,  of  all  ways,  in  terms  of  "Aryan 
humility."  This  "humility"  is  extracted  by  a  very  delicate 
process  that  requires,  I  am  afraid,  considerable  "good  will" 
on  the  part  of  the  reader  who  would  follow  it: 

The  Church,  we  may  recall,  had  proclaimed  an  integral 
relationship  between  Divine  Law  and  Natural  Law.  Natural 
Law  was  the  expression  of  the  Will  of  God.  Thus,  in  the 
middle  age,  it  was  a  result  of  natural  law,  working  through 
tradition,  that  some  people  were  serfs  and  other  people 
nobles.  And  every  good  member  of  the  Church  was  "obedi- 
ent" to  this  law.  Everybody  resigned  himself  to  it.  Hence, 
the  serf  resigned  himself  to  his  poverty,  and  the  noble  re- 
signed himself  to  his  riches.  The  monarch  resigned  himself 
to  his  position  as  representative  of  the  people.  And  at  times 
the  Churchmen  resigned  themselves  to  the  need  of  trying 
to  represent  the  people  instead.  And  the  pattern  was  made 
symmetrical  by  the  consideration  that  each  traditional 
"right"  had  its  corresponding  "obligations."  Similarly,  the 
Aryan  doctrine  is  a  doctrine  of  resignation,  hence  of  hu- 
mility. It  is  in  accordance  with  the  laws  of  nature  that  the 
"Aryan  blood"  is  superior  to  all  other  bloods.  Also,  the 
"law  of  the  survival  of  the  fittest"  is  God's  law,  working 
through  natural  law.  Hence,  if  the  Aryan  blood  has  been 
vested  with  the  awful  responsibility  of  its  inborn  superiority, 
the  bearers  of  this  "culture-creating"  blood  must  resign 
themselves  to  struggle  in  behalf  of  its  triumph.  Otherwise, 


thundering  against  this  symptom  he  could  gain  persuasiveness,  though  attacking 
the  very  foreshadoiuings  of  himself. 

208 


RHETORIC  OF  HITLER'S  "BATTLE" 
the  laws  of  God  have  been  disobeyed,  with  human  decadence 
as  a  result.  We  must  fight,  he  says,  in  order  to  "deserve  to 
be  alive."  The  Aryan  "obeys"  nature.  It  is  only  "Jewish 
arrogance"  that  thinks  of  "conquering"  nature  by  demo- 
cratic ideals  of  equality. 

This  picture  has  some  nice  distinctions  worth  following. 
The  major  virtue  of  the  Aryan  race  was  its  instinct  for  self- 
preservation  (in  obedience  to  natural  law).  But  the  major 
vice  of  the  Jew  was  his  instinct  for  self-preservation;  for, 
if  he  did  not  have  this  instinct  to  a  maximum  degree,  he 
would  not  be  the  "perfect"  enemy — that  is,  he  wouldn't 
be  strong  enough  to  account  for  the  ubiquitousness  and 
omnipotence  of  his  conspiracy  in  destroying  the  world  to 
become  its  master. 

How,  then,  are  we  to  distinguish  between  the  benign  in- 
stinct of  self-preservation  at  the  roots  of  Aryanism,  and  the 
malign  instinct  of  self-preservation  at  the  roots  of  Semitism? 
We  shall  distinguish  thus:  The  Aryan  self-preservation  is 
based  upon  sacrifice,  the  sacrifice  of  the  individual  to  the 
group,  hence,  militarism,  army  discipline,  and  one  big  com- 
pany union.  But  Jewish  self-preservation  is  based  upon  in- 
dividualism, which  attains  its  cunning  ends  by  the  exploi- 
tation of  peace.  How,  then,  can  such  arrant  individualists 
concoct  the  world-wide  plot?  By  the  help  of  their  "herd 
instinct."  By  their  sheer  "herd  instinct"  individualists  can 
band  together  for  a  common  end.  They  have  no  real  soli- 
darity, but  unite  opportunistically  to  seduce  the  Aryan.  Still, 
that  brings  up  another  technical  problem.  For  we  have  been 
hearing  much  about  the  importance  of  the  person.  We  have 
been  told  how,  by  the  "law  of  the  survival  of  the  fittest," 
there  is  a  sifting  of  people  on  the  basis  of  their  individual 
capacities.  We  even  have  a  special  chapter  of  pure  Aryanism: 
209 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
"The  Strong  Man  is  Mightiest  Alone."  Hence,  another  dis- 
tinction is  necessary:  The  Jew  represents  individualism;  the 
Aryan  represents  "super-individualism." 

I  had  thought,  when  coming  upon  the  "Strong  Man  is 
Mightiest  Alone"  chapter,  that  I  was  going  to  find  Hitler  at 
his  weakest.  Instead,  I  found  him  at  his  strongest.  (I  am 
not  referring  to  quality,  but  to  demagogic  effectiveness.) 
For  the  chapter  is  not  at  all,  as  you  might  infer  from  the 
title,  done  in  a  "rise  of  Adolph  Hitler"  manner.  Instead,  it 
deals  with  the  Nazis'  gradual  absorption  of  the  many  dis- 
related  "folkish"  groups.  And  it  is  managed  throughout  by 
means  of  a  spontaneous  identification  between  leader  and 
people.  Hence,  the  Strong  Man's  "aloneness"  is  presented 
as  a  public  attribute,  in  terms  of  tactics  for  the  struggle 
against  the  Party's  dismemberment  under  the  pressure  of 
rival  saviors.  There  is  no  explicit  talk  of  Hitler  at  all.  And 
it  is  simply  taken  for  granted  that  his  leadership  is  the  norm, 
and  all  other  leaderships  the  abnorm.  There  is  no  "phi- 
losophy of  the  superman,"  in  Nietzschean  cast.  Instead,  Hit- 
ler's blandishments  so  integrate  leader  and  people,  com- 
mingling them  so  inextricably,  that  the  politician  does  not 
even  present  himself  as  candidate.  Somehow,  the  battle  is 
over  already,  the  decision  has  been  made.  "German  democ- 
racy" has  chosen.  And  the  deployments  of  politics  are,  you 
might  say,  the  chartings  of  Hitler's  private  mind  translated 
into  the  vocabulary  of  nationalistic  events.  He  says  what  he 
thought  in  terms  of  what  parties  did. 

Here,  I  think,  we  see  the  distinguishing  quality  of  Hitler's 
method  as  an  instrument  of  persuasion,  with  reference  to 
the  question  whether  Hitler  is  sincere  or  deliberate,  whether 
his  vision  of  the  omnipotent  conspirator  has  the  drastic  hon- 
esty of  paranoia  or  the  sheer  shrewdness  of  a  demagogue 
210 


RHETORIC    OF    HITLER'S    "BATTLE" 

trained  in  Realpolitik  of  the  Machiavellian  sort.4  Must  we 
choose?  Or  may  we  not,  rather,  replace  the  "either — or" 
with  a  "both — and"?  Have  we  not  by  now  offered  grounds 
enough  for  our  contention  that  Hitler's  sinister  powers  of 
persuasion  derive  from  the  fact  that  he  spontaneously 
evolved  his  "cure-all"  in  response  to  inner  necessities? 


So  much,  then,  was  "spontaneous."  It  was  further  chan- 
nelized into  the  anti-Semitic  pattern  by  the  incentives  he 
derived  from  the  Catholic  Christian-Social  Party  in  Vienna 
itself.  Add,  now,  the  step  into  criticism.  Not  criticism  in  the 
"parliamentary"  sense  of  doubt,  of  hearkening  to  the  op- 
position and  attempting  to  mature  a  policy  in  the  light  of 
counter-policies;  but  the  "unified"  kind  of  criticism  that 
simply  seeks  for  conscious  ways  of  making  one's  position 
more  "efficient,"  more  thoroughly  itself.  This  is  the  kind  of 
criticism  at  which  Hitler  was  an  adept.  As  a  result,  he  could 
spontaneously  turn  to  a  scapegoat  mechanism,  and  he  could, 
by  conscious  planning,  perfect  the  symmetry  of  the  solution 
towards  which  he  had  spontaneously  turned. 

4  I  should  not  want  to  use  the  word  "Machiavellian,"  however,  without  offering 
a  kind  of  apology  to  Machiavelli.  It  seems  to  me  that  Machiavelli's  Prince  has 
more  to  be  said  in  extenuation  than  is  usually  said  of  it.  Machiavelli's  strategy,  as 
I  see  it,  was  something  like  this:  He  accepted  the  values  of  the  Renaissance  rule  as 
a  fact.  That  is:  whether  you  like  these  values  or  not,  they  were  there  and  operat- 
ing, and  it  was  useless  to  try  persuading  the  ambitious  ruler  to  adopt  other  values, 
such  as  those  of  the  Church.  These  men  believed  in  the  cult  of  material  power, 
and  they  had  the  power  to  implement  their  beliefs.  With  so  much  as  "the  given," 
could  anything  in  the  way  of  benefits  for  the  people  be  salvaged?  Machiavelli 
evolved  a  typical  "Machiavellian"  argument  in  favor  of  popular  benefits,  on  the 
basis  of  the  prince's  own  scheme  of  values.  That  is:  the  ruler,  to  attain  the  max- 
imum strength,  requires  the  backing  of  the  populace.  That  this  backing  be  as 
effective  as  possible,  the  populace  should  be  made  as  strong  as  possible.  And  that 
the  populace  be  as  strong  as  possible,  they  should  be  well  treated.  Their  gratitude 
would  further  repay  itself  in  the  form  of  increased  loyalty. 

It  was  Machiavelli's  hope  that,  for  this  roundabout  project,  he  would  be  re- 
warded with  a  well-paying  office  in  the  prince's  administrative  bureaucracy. 

21  1 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

This  is  the  meaning  of  Hitler's  diatribes  against  "objec- 
tivity." "Objectivity"  is  interference-criticism.  What  Hitler 
wanted  was  the  kind  of  criticism  that  would  be  a  pure  and 
simple  coefficient  of  power,  enabling  him  to  go  most  effec- 
tively in  the  direction  he  had  chosen.  And  the  "inner  voice" 
of  which  he  speaks  would  henceforth  dictate  to  him  the 
greatest  amount  of  realism,  as  regards  the  tactics  of  efficiency. 
For  instance,  having  decided  that  the  masses  required  cer- 
tainty, and  simple  certainty,  quite  as  he  did  himself,  he  later 
worked  out  a  25-point  program  as  the  platform  of  his  Na- 
tional Socialist  German  Workers  Party.  And  he  resolutely 
refused  to  change  one  single  item  in  this  program,  even  for 
purposes  of  "improvement."  He  felt  that  the  fixity  of  the 
platform  was  more  important  for  propagandist^  purposes 
than  any  revision  of  his  slogans  could  be,  even  though  the 
revisions  in  themselves  had  much  to  be  said  in  their  favor. 
The  astounding  thing  is  that,  although  such  an  attitude  gave 
good  cause  to  doubt  the  Hitlerite  promises,  he  could  ex- 
plicitly explain  his  tactics  in  his  book  and  still  employ  them 
without  loss  of  effectiveness.5 

Hitler  also  tells  of  his  technique  in  speaking,  once  the  Nazi 
party  had  become  effectively  organized,  and  had  its  army  of 
guards,  or  bouncers,  to  maltreat  hecklers  and  throw  them 
from  the  hall.  He  would,  he  recounts,  fill  his  speech  with 
provocative  remarks,  whereat  his  bouncers  would  promptly 

s  On  this  point  Hitler  reasons  as  follows:  "Here,  too,  one  can  learn  from  the 
Catholic  Church.  Although  its  structure  of  doctrines  in  many  instances  collides, 
quite  unnecessarily,  with  exact  science  and  research,  yet  it  is  unwilling  to  sacrifice 
even  one  little  syllable  of  its  dogmas.  It  has  rightly  recognized  that  its  resistibility 
does  not  lie  in  a  more  or  less  great  adjustment  to  the  scientific  results  of  the  mo- 
ment, which  in  reality  are  always  changing,  but  rather  in  a  strict  adherence  to 
dogmas,  once  laid  down,  which  alone  give  the  entire  structure  the  character  of 
creed.  Today,  therefore,  the  Catholic  Church  stands  firmer  than  ever.  One  can 
prophesy  that  in  the  same  measure  in  which  the  appearances  flee,  the  Church 
itself,  as  the  resting  pole  in  the  flight  of  appearances,  will  gain  more  and  more 
blind  adherence." 

212 


RHETORIC  OF  HITLER'S  "BATTLE'' 
swoop  down  in  flying  formation,  with  swinging  fists,  upon 
anyone  whom  these  provocative  remarks  provoked  to  answer. 
The  efficiency  of  Hitlerism  is  the  efficiency  of  the  one  voice, 
implemented  throughout  a  total  organization.  The  trinity 
of  government  which  he  finally  offers  is:  popularity  of  the 
leader,  force  to  back  the  popularity,  and  popularity  and 
force  maintained  together  long  enough  to  become  backed 
by  a  tradition.  Is  such  thinking  spontaneous  or  deliberate 
— or  is  it  not  rather  both?  6 

Freud  has  given  us  a  succinct  paragraph  that  bears  upon 
the  spontaneous  aspect  of  Hitler's  persecution  mania.  (A  per- 
secution mania,  I  should  add,  different  from  the  pure  prod- 
uct in  that  it  was  constructed  of  public  materials;  all  the 
ingredients  Hitler  stirred  into  his  brew  were  already  rife, 
with  spokesmen  and  bands  of  followers,  before  Hitler  "took 
them  over."  Both  the  pre-war  and  post-war  periods  were 
dotted  with  saviors,  of  nationalistic  and  "folkish"  cast.  This 
proliferation  was  analogous  to  the  swarm  of  barter  schemes 
and  currency-tinkering  that  burst  loose  upon  the  United 
States  after  the  crash  of  1929.  Also,  the  commercial  avail- 
ability of  Hitler's  politics  was,  in  a  low  sense  of  the  term,  a 
public  qualification,  removing  it  from  the  realm  of  "pure" 

s  Hitler  also  paid  great  attention  to  the  conditions  under  which  political  ora- 
tory is  most  effective.  He  sums  up  thus: 

"All  these  cases  involve  encroachments  upon  man's  freedom  of  will.  This  ap- 
plies, of  course,  most  of  all  to  meetings  to  which  people  with  a  contrary  orienta- 
tion of  will  are  coming,  and  who  now  have  to  be  won  for  new  intentions.  It  seems 
that  in  the  morning  and  even  during  the  day  men's  will  power  revolts  with  high- 
est energy  against  an  attempt  at  being  forced  under  another's  will  and  another's 
opinion.  In  the  evening,  however,  they  succumb  more  easily  to  the  dominating 
force  of  a  stronger  will.  For  truly  every  such  meeting  presents  a  wrestling  match 
between  two  opposed  forces.  The  superior  oratorical  talent  of  a  domineering  apos- 
tolic nature  will  now  succeed  more  easily  in  winning  for  the  new  will  people  who 
themselves  have  in  turn  experienced  a  weakening  of  their  force  of  resistance  in  the 
most  natural  way,  than  people  who  still  have  full  command  of  the  energies  of 
their  minds  and  their  will  power. 

"The  same  purpose  serves  also  the  artificially  created  and  yet  mysterious  dusk 
of  the  Catholic  churches,  the  burning  candles,  incense,  censers,  etc." 

219, 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
paranoia,  where  the  sufferer  develops  a  wholly  private  struc- 
ture of  interpretations.) 

I  cite  from  Totem  and  Taboo: 

Another  trait  in  the  attitude  of  primitive  races 
towards  their  rulers  recalls  a  mechanism  which  is  uni- 
versally present  in  mental  disturbances,  and  is  openly 
revealed  in  the  so-called  delusions  of  persecution.  Here 
the  importance  of  a  particular  person  is  extraordinarily 
heightened  and  his  omnipotence  is  raised  to  the  im- 
probable in  order  to  make  it  easier  to  attribute  to  him 
responsibility  for  everything  painful  which  happens 
to  the  patient.  Savages  really  do  not  act  differently 
towards  their  rulers  when  they  ascribe  to  them  power 
over  rain  and  shine,  wind  and  weather,  and  then  de- 
throne them  or  kill  them  because  nature  has  disap- 
pointed their  expectation  of  a  good  hunt  or  a  ripe 
harvest.  The  prototype  which  the  paranoiac  recon- 
structs in  his  persecution  mania  is  found  in  the  relation 
of  the  child  to  its  father.  Such  omnipotence  is  regu- 
larly attributed  to  the  father  in  the  imagination  of 
the  son,  and  distrust  of  the  father  has  been  shown  to 
be  intimately  connected  with  the  heightened  esteem 
for  him.  When  a  paranoiac  names  a  person  of  his  ac- 
quaintance as  his  "persecutor,"  he  thereby  elevates  him 
to  the  paternal  succession  and  brings  him  under  condi- 
tions which  enable  him  to  make  him  responsible  for 
all  the  misfortune  which  he  experiences. 

I  have  already  proposed  my  modifications  of  this  account 
when  discussing  the  symbolic  change  of  lineage  connected 
with  Hitler's  project  of  a  "new  way  of  life."  Hitler  is  sym- 
214 


RHETORIC  OF  HITLER'S  "BATTLE'' 
bolically  changing  from  the  "spiritual  ancestry"  of  the  He- 
brew prophets  to  the  "superior"  ancestry  of  "Aryanism," 
and  has  given  his  story  a  kind  of  bastardized  modernization, 
along  the  lines  of  naturalistic,  materialistic  "science,"  by 
his  fiction  of  the  special  "blood-stream."  He  is  voting  him- 
self a  new  identity  (something  contrary  to  the  wrangles  of 
the  Habsburg  Babylon,  a  soothing  national  unity);  where- 
upon the  vessels  of  the  old  identity  become  a  "bad"  father, 
i.  e.,  the  persecutor.  It  is  not  hard  to  see  how,  as  his  enmity 
becomes  implemented  by  the  backing  of  an  organization, 
the  role  of  "persecutor"  is  transformed  into  the  role  of  per- 
secuted, as  he  sets  out  with  his  like-minded  band  to  "de- 
stroy the  destroyer." 

Were  Hitler  simply  a  poet,  he  might  have  written  a  work 
with  an  anti-Semitic  turn,  and  let  it  go  at  that.  But  Hitler, 
who  began  as  a  student  of  painting,  and  later  shifted  to  ar- 
chitecture, himself  treats  his  political  activities  as  an  exten- 
sion of  his  artistic  ambitions.  He  remained,  in  his  own  eyes, 
an  "architect,"  building  a  "folkish"  State  that  was  to  match, 
in  political  materials,  the  "folkish"  architecture  of  Munich. 

We  might  consider  the  matter  this  way  (still  trying,  that 
is,  to  make  precise  the  relationship  between  the  drastically 
sincere  and  the  deliberately  scheming):  Do  we  not  know 
of  many  authors  who  seem,  as  they  turn  from  the  role  of 
citizen  to  the  role  of  spokesman,  to  leave  one  room  and 
enter  another?  Or  who  has  not,  on  occasion,  talked  with  a 
man  in  private  conversation,  and  then  been  almost  startled 
at  the  transformation  this  man  undergoes  when  addressing 
a  public  audience?  And  I  know  persons  today,  who  shift 
between  the  writing  of  items  in  the  class  of  academic,  philo- 
sophic speculation  to  items  of  political  pamphleteering,  and 
whose  entire  style  and  method  changes  with  this  change  of 

215 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
role.  In  their  academic  manner,  they  are  cautious,  pains- 
taking, eager  to  present  all  significant  aspects  of  the  case 
they  are  considering;  but  when  they  turn  to  political  pam- 
phleteering, they  hammer  forth  with  vituperation,  they  sys- 
tematically misrepresent  the  position  of  their  opponent,  they 
go  into  a  kind  of  political  trance,  in  which,  during  its  throes, 
they  throb  like  a  locomotive;  and  behold,  a  moment  later, 
the  mediumistic  state  is  abandoned,  and  they  are  the  most 
moderate  of  men. 

Now,  one  will  find  few  pages  in  Hitler  that  one  could  call 
"moderate."  But  there  are  many  pages  in  which  he  gauges 
resistances  and  opportunities  with  the  "rationality"  of  a 
skilled  advertising  man  planning  a  new  sales  campaign. 
Politics,  he  says,  must  be  sold  like  soap — and  soap  is  not 
sold  in  a  trance.  But  he  did  have  the  experience  of  his 
trance,  in  the  "exaltation"  of  his  anti-Semitism.  And  later, 
as  he  became  a  successful  orator  (he  insists  that  revolutions 
are  made  solely  by  the  power  of  the  spoken  word),  he  had 
this  "poetic"  role  to  draw  upon,  plus  the  great  relief  it  pro- 
vided as  a  way  of  slipping  from  the  burden  of  logical  analysis 
into  the  pure  "spirituality"  of  vituperative  prophecy.  What 
more  natural,  therefore,  than  that  a  man  so  insistent  upon 
unification  would  integrate  this  mood  with  less  ecstatic  mo- 
ments, particularly  when  he  had  found  the  followers  and 
the  backers  that  put  a  price,  both  spiritual  and  material, 
upon  such  unification? 

Once  this  happy  "unity"  is  under  way,  one  has  a  "logic" 
for  the  development  of  a  method.  One  knows  when  to  "spir- 
itualize" a  material  issue,  and  when  to  "materialize"  a 
spiritual  one.  Thus,  when  it  is  a  matter  of  materialistic 
interests  that  cause  a  conflict  between  employer  and  em- 
ployee, Hitler  here  disdainfully  shifts  to  a  high  moral  plane. 
2  16 


RHETORIC  OF  HITLER'S  "BATTLE" 
He  is  "above"  such  low  concerns.  Everything  becomes  a 
matter  of  "sacrifices"  and  "personality."  It  becomes  crass  to 
treat  employers  and  employees  as  different  classes  with  a 
corresponding  difference  in  the  classification  of  their  in- 
terests. Instead,  relations  between  employer  and  employee 
must  be  on  the  "personal"  basis  of  leader  and  follower,  and 
"whatever  may  have  a  divisive  effect  in  national  life  should 
be  given  a  unifying  effect  through  the  army."  When  talking 
of  national  rivalries,  however,  he  makes  a  very  shrewd  ma- 
terialistic gauging  of  Britain  and  France  with  relation  to 
Germany.  France,  he  says,  desires  the  "Balkanization  of  Ger- 
many" (i.  e.,  its  breakup  into  separationist  movements — the 
"disunity"  theme  again)  in  order  to  maintain  commercial 
hegemony  on  the  continent.  But  Britain  desires  the  "Bal- 
kanization of  Europe/'  hence  would  favor  a  fairly  strong 
and  unified  Germany,  to  use  as  a  counter-weight  against 
French  hegemony.  German  nationality,  however,  is  unified 
by  the  spiritual  quality  of  Aryanism  (that  would  produce 
the  national  organization  via  the  Party)  while  this  in  turn 
is  materialized  in  the  myth  of  the  blood-stream. 

What  are  we  to  learn  from  Hitler's  book?  For  one  thing, 
I  believe  that  he  has  shown,  to  a  very  disturbing  degree, 
the  power  of  endless  repetition.  Every  circular  advertising 
a  Nazi  meeting  had,  at  the  bottom,  two  slogans:  "Jews  not 
admitted"  and  "War  victims  free."  And  the  substance  of 
Nazi  propaganda  was  built  about  these  two  "complemen- 
tary" themes.  He  describes  the  power  of  spectacle;  insists 
that  mass  meetings  are  the  fundamental  way  of  giving  the 
individual  the  sense  of  being  protectively  surrounded  by  a 
movement,  the  sense  of  "community."  He  also  drops  one 
wise  hint  that  I  wish  the  American  authorities  would  take 
in  treating  Nazi  gatherings.  He  says  that  the  presence  of  a 
217 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
special  Nazi  guard,  in  Nazi  uniforms,  was  of  great  impor- 
tance in  building  up,  among  the  followers,  a  tendency  to 
place  the  center  of  authority  in  the  Nazi  party.  I  believe  that 
we  should  take  him  at  his  word  here,  but  use  the  advice  in 
reverse,  by  insisting  that,  where  Nazi  meetings  are  to  be 
permitted,  they  be  policed  by  the  authorities  alone,  and  that 
uniformed  Nazi  guards  to  enforce  the  law  be  prohibited. 

And  is  it  possible  that  an  equally  important  feature  of 
appeal  was  not  so  much  in  the  repetitiousness  per  se,  but 
in  the  fact  that,  by  means  of  it,  Hitler  provided  a  "world 
view"  for  people  who  had  previously  seen  the  world  but 
piecemeal?  Did  not  much  of  his  lure  derive,  once  more,  from 
the  bad  filling  of  a  good  need?  Are  not  those  who  insist  upon 
a  purely  planless  working  of  the  market  asking  people  to  ac- 
cept far  too  slovenly  a  scheme  of  human  purpose,  a  slovenly 
scheme  that  can  be  accepted  so  long  as  it  operates  with  a 
fair  degree  of  satisfaction,  but  becomes  abhorrent  to  the 
victims  of  its  disarray?  Are  they  not  then  psychologically 
ready  for  a  rationale,  any  rationale,  if  it  but  offer  them  some 
specious  "universal"  explanation?  Hence,  I  doubt  whether 
the  appeal  was  in  the  sloganizing  element  alone  (particularly 
as  even  slogans  can  only  be  hammered  home,  in  speech  after 
speech,  and  two  or  three  hours  at  a  stretch,  by  endless  varia- 
tions on  the  themes).  And  Hitler  himself  somewhat  justifies 
my  interpretation  by  laying  so  much  stress  upon  the  half- 
measures  of  the  middle-class  politicians,  and  the  contrasting 
certainty  of  his  own  methods.  He  was  not  offering  people  a 
rival  world  view;  rather,  he  was  offering  a  world  view  to 
people  who  had  no  other  to  pit  against  it. 

As  for  the  basic  Nazi  trick:  the  "curative"  unification  by 
a  fictitious  devil-function,  gradually  made  convincing  by 
the  sloganizing  repetitiousness  of  standard  advertising  tech- 
218 


RHETORIC  OF  HITLER'S  "BATTLE" 
nique — the  opposition  must  be  as  unwearying  in  the  attack 
upon  it.  It  may  well  be  that  people,  in  their  human  frailty, 
require  an  enemy  as  well  as  a  goal.  Very  well:  Hitlerism 
itself  has  provided  us  with  such  an  enemy — and  the  clear 
example  of  its  operation  is  guaranty  that  we  have,  in  him 
and  all  he  stands  for,  no  purely  fictitious  "devil-function" 
made  to  look  like  a  world  menace  by  rhetorical  blandish- 
ments, but  a  reality  whose  ominousness  is  clarified  by  the 
record  of  its  conduct  to  date.  In  selecting  his  brand  of  doc- 
trine as  our  "scapegoat,"  and  in  tracking  down  its  equiva- 
lents in  America,  we  shall  be  at  the  very  center  of  accuracy. 
The  Nazis  themselves  have  made  the  task  of  clarification 
easier.  Add  to  them  Japan  and  Italy,  and  you  have  case 
histories  of  fascism  for  those  who  might  find  it  more  difficult 
to  approach  an  understanding  of  its  imperialistic  drives  by 
a  vigorously  economic  explanation. 

But  above  all,  I  believe,  we  must  make  it  apparent  that 
Hitler  appeals  by  relying  upon  a  bastardization  of  funda- 
mentally religious  patterns  of  thought.  In  this,  if  properly 
presented,  there  is  no  slight  to  religion.  There  is  nothing 
in  religion  proper  that  requires  a  fascist  state.  There  is 
much  in  religion,  when  misused,  that  does  lead  to  a  fascist 
state.  There  is  a  Latin  proverb,  Corruptio  optimi  pessima, 
"the  corruption  of  the  best  is  the  worst."  And  it  is  the  cor- 
rupters of  religion  who  are  a  major  menace  to  the  world 
today,  in  giving  the  profound  patterns  of  religious  thought 
a  crude  and  sinister  distortion. 

Our  job,  then,  our  anti-Hitler  Battle,  is  to  find  all  avail- 
able ways  of  making  the  Hitlerite  distortions  of  religion 
apparent,  in  order  that  politicians  of  his  kind  in  America  be 
unable  to  perform  a  similar  swindle.  The  desire  for  unity 
is  genuine  and  admirable.  The  desire  for  national  unity,  in 
219 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
the  present  state  of  the  world,  is  genuine  and  admirable. 
But  this  unity,  if  attained  on  a  deceptive  basis,  by  emotional 
trickeries  that  shift  our  criticism  from  the  accurate  locus  of 
our  trouble,  is  no  unity  at  all.  For,  even  if  we  are  among 
those  who  happen  to  be  "Aryans,"  we  solve  no  problems 
even  for  ourselves  by  such  solutions,  since  the  factors  press- 
ing towards  calamity  remain.  Thus,  in  Germany,  after  all 
the  upheaval,  we  see  nothing  beyond  a  drive  for  ever  more 
and  more  upheaval,  precisely  because  the  "new  way  of  life" 
was  no  new  way,  but  the  dismally  oldest  way  of  sheer  de- 
ception— hence,  after  all  the  "change,"  the  factors  driving 
towards  unrest  are  left  intact,  and  even  strengthened.  True, 
the  Germans  had  the  resentment  of  a  lost  war  to  increase 
their  susceptibility  to  Hitler's  rhetoric.  But  in  a  wider  sense, 
it  has  repeatedly  been  observed,  the  whole  world  lost  the 
War — and  the  accumulating  ills  of  the  capitalist  order  were 
but  accelerated  in  their  movements  towards  confusion. 
Hence,  here  too  there  are  the  resentments  that  go  with  frus- 
tration of  men's  ability  to  work  and  earn.  At  that  point  a 
certain  kind  of  industrial  or  financial  monopolist  may,  an- 
noyed by  the  contrary  voices  of  our  parliament,  wish  for 
the  momentary  peace  of  one  voice,  amplified  by  social 
organizations,  with  all  the  others  not  merely  quieted,  but 
given  the  quietus.  So  he  might,  under  Nazi  promptings, 
be  tempted  to  back  a  group  of  gangsters  who,  on  becoming 
the  political  rulers  of  the  state,  would  protect  him  against 
the  necessary  demands  of  the  workers.  His  gangsters,  then, 
would  be  his  insurance  against  his  workers.  But  who  would 
be  his  insurance  against  his  gangsters? 


220 


THE  CALLING  OF  THE  TUNE 


THE  complete  autonomy  of  art  could  but  mean  its  dis- 
sociation from  other  aspects  of  the  social  collectivity.  Com- 
plete freedom  to  develop  one's  means  of  communication 
ends  as  an  impairment  of  communicability  (the  dilemma 
of  work  done  in  the  Joyce-Stein-transition  school).  There 
is  a  point  at  which  freedom  for  the  artist  becomes  an  em- 
barrassment of  riches,  since  one  of  the  forms  of  this  free- 
dom is  freedom  from  revenues. 

A  piper  who  had  insisted  upon  the  right  to  call  his  own 
tune  became  unhappy  when  everyone  began  saying  to  him, 
"I  don't  care  what  tune  you  play."  He  discovered  that  he 
wanted  them  to  care  tremendously — and  to  make  them  do 
so,  he  even  tried  outrageous  tunes.  Though  insisting  upon 
his  professional  immunity,  he  didn't  want  to  be  too  damned 
immune,  since  complete  tolerance  would  imply  the  unim- 
portance of  his  craft.  He  simultaneously  wanted  separation 
and  integration.  He  wanted  the  joyous  marriage  of  "you 
must"  and  "I  will." 

Two  recent  books,  Grace  Overmyer's  Government  and 
the  Arts  and  Herbert  Read's  Poetry  and  Anarchism,  give 
us  an  opportunity  to  consider  some  of  the  specific  issues 
involved  in  this  vacillating  relationship  between  the  artist's 
freedom  and  the  society's  commands.  The  commands  are 
given,  sometimes  by  the  direct  use  of  policing  activities, 
more  often  by  the  indirect  effects  of  patronage. 

The  first  of  these  books  "does  not  seek  primarily  either 

221 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
to  justify  or  to  condemn  state  aid  to  art  as  an  institution.  Its 
chief  object  has  been  the  assembling  of  such  facts  as  must 
form  the  basis  of  a  just  or  useful  judgment."  To  this  end 
the  author  gives  us  the  result  of  library  research,  interviews, 
and  questionnaires,  bearing  upon  the  kinds  of  assistance 
that  are  given  to  art  and  artists,  in  many  countries,  by  the 
agencies  of  both  national  and  local  government. 

In  America,  the  book  reveals  quite  large  federal,  state, 
and  municipal  expenditures  in  support  of  one  aesthetic 
medium  or  another — although,  until  recently,  the  art  got  in 
exchange  was  not  often  very  close  to  the  typical  experiences 
of  our  national  life,  but  was  rather  in  the  spirit  of  the  Greek 
temples  our  architects  copied  to  house  government  bureaus 
and  banks.  The  author's  account  of  the  federal  arts  projects 
presents  a  highly  honorable  aspect  of  the  Roosevelt  admin- 
istration, whose  sponsorship  of  the  arts  seems  to  have  come 
as  close  as  one  could  reasonably  expect  of  any  such  large 
enterprise  to  fulfilling  the  ideal  set  by  Miss  Overmyer  in 
her  chapter,  "  'Interfering'  with  Art": 

The  problem  of  "government  interference,"  as  it 
may  accompany  state  subsidy  of  the  arts,  was  once  dis- 
cussed by  the  late  John  Drinkwater  in  connection  with 
the  moot  question  of  England's  national  theater.  His 
epigrammatic  conclusion,  which  might  serve  as  motto 
for  any  government  in  its  relationship  to  art,  was  simply 
this:  "The  state  should  pay  the  piper,  but  should  not 
call  the  tune." 

A  respect  for  the  proverbial  might  reasonably  make  one 
doubt  whether,  should  the  federal  projects  become  perma- 
nent, their  comparative  liquidity  can  be  retained.  Some  of 

222 


CALLING    OF    THE    TUNE 

this  liquidity  may  be  due  to  the  newness  of  the  enterprises, 
which  have  not  yet  "got  their  stride"  as  regards  the  ways  of 
political  appointment;  and  some  to  the  peculiarly  tentative 
nature  of  the  New  Deal  itself,  a  transitional  phase  of  federal 
administration  that  could  hardly  be  expected  to  continue 
indefinitely.  In  any  event,  were  we  to  consider  the  subject 
of  art  patronage  in  general,  we  should  have  to  go  far  beyond 
the  confines  of  Miss  Overmyer's  book,  broad  as  they  are. 
Wholly  private  institutions  and  subsidies  are  not  a  part  of 
her  investigation,  and  that  is  a  very  large  item. 

Nor  does  she  consider  the  extensive  employment  of  liter- 
ary, graphic,  dramatic,  and  musical  talent  for  advertising 
purposes,  with  the  organized  recruiting  of  aesthetic  mer- 
cenaries (often  of  great  virtuosity)  in  the  service  of  com- 
mercial warfare.  Surely  it  is  our  businessmen  with  a  product 
to  sell  who  provide  the  largest  financial  subsidy  to  art.  And 
you  would  get  the  unwarranted  impression  that  dictatorships 
abroad  are  the  only  institutions  imposing  restrictions  upon 
the  artist,  unless  you  stopped  to  consider  these  Medicis 
among  our  economic  dynasts,  employing  whole  hordes  of 
craftsmen  to  beautify  and  signalize  their  realms  of  action, 
and  specifying  the  selection  of  subjects  and  the  nature  of 
treatment  with  a  strictness  unthinkable  in  the  days  of  royal 
patronage  or  even  in  contemporary  political  dictatorships. 

An  art,  to  be  most  thoroughly  integrated  with  the  national 
life,  must  represent,  form,  confirm,  utilize,  and  project  the 
national  values,  ideals,  and  expectancies.  And  to  do  this,  it 
must  be  integrated  with  the  basic  modes  of  livelihood.  The 
distinction  between  "pure"  and  "applied"  art,  resulting 
from  an  extensive  use  of  art  in  recommending  goods,  has 
tended  to  force  the  artist  into  a  choice  between  advertising 
223 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
(wherein  he  is  spokesman  for  the  values,  ideals,  and  expect- 
ancies of  commerce)  and  advertising-in-reverse  (that  usually 
goes  by  the  name  of  "propaganda"). 

There  is  an  intermediate  realm,  that  I  might  call  the 
"Whitmanesque."  It  focuses  attention  upon  the  "human 
element"  in  our  patterns  of  sociality,  the  typical  situations 
of  home  life,  farming,  manufacture,  etc.,  in  ballgames,  prize- 
fights, crap  shootings,  picnics,  and  even  in  the  "picturesque- 
ness"  of  poverty  and  slums.  In  so  far  as  it  stresses  the  lamen- 
table rather  than  the  picturesque,  it  is  felt  to  move  into  the 
suspect  area  of  "propaganda."  And  even  among  the  advo- 
cates of  propagandist  lamentation  and  its  organizational 
counterpart,  the  sinister  threat,  there  are  few  who  would 
choose  such  work  to  "live  with,"  whatever  they  may  think 
of  it  as  an  occasional  exhibit. 

Much  valuable  art  is  still  to  be  done  within  the  Whit- 
manesque strategy  of  idealization,  or  humanization.  But 
such  idealization,  unless  corrected  by  a  critique  that  moves 
it  into  the  suspect  area  of  "propaganda,"  can  come  to  func- 
tion as  little  more  than  a  promiscuous  flattering  of  the  status 
quo,  in  its  bad  aspects  as  well  as  its  good  ones.  For  wherever 
there  are  people,  there  is  something  to  be  "humanized."  And 
if,  when  the  limits  of  humanization  are  reached,  you  allow 
for  a  shift  into  the  area  of  sheer  picturesqueness  (as  in  the 
earlier  work  of  Caldwell,  for  instance),  you  have  a  still  wider 
range  of  "free"  artistic  expression.  Thus  can  the  patron 
subsidize  in  the  "applied  art"  of  his  advertising  copy  the 
representation  of  commercial  values  that  indirectly  bring 
about  the  dispossession  of  a  dirt  farmer,  and  as  a  purchaser 
of  "pure"  art  he  can  buy  a  Whitmanesque  picture  "human- 
izing" the  work  patterns  of  the  dirt  farmer  who  is  to  be 
dispossessed.  Add  to  humanization  and  picturesqueness  a 
224 


CALLING    OF    THE    TUNE 

concern  with  our  incunabula,  the  retrospective  recovery  of 
key  situations  in  our  past  history,  and  you  see  how  vast  the 
resources  of  the  "Whitmanesque  strategy"  are.  It  will  surely 
continue  to  be  the  favorite  mode  of  "pure"  art — and  re- 
cently when  I  heard  over  the  radio  an  announcement  that  an 
influential  business  organization  was  calling  for  an  "open 
road,"  I  realized  how  neatly  the  Whitmanesque  succeeds  in 
offering  something  for  everybody,  making  the  interests  of 
piper  and  tune-caller  identical,  hence  allowing  the  poet 
simultaneously  to  "be  himself"  and  to  act  as  public  spokes- 
man for  his  patrons,  or  customers. 


Herbert  Read  is  concerned  with  the  ways  in  which  the 
piperpayer  calls  the  tune,  not  as  with  the  spontaneous  group- 
spokesmen  of  the  Whitmanesque  strategy,  but  divisively, 
with  artists  and  patrons  as  conflicting  classes.  He  vigorously 
attacks  the  effects  of  capitalism  upon  art,  even  proposing  in 
his  chapter,  "Why  We  English  Have  No  Taste,"  that  English 
laughter  be  renamed,  for  purposes  of  accuracy,  "capitalist 
laughter."  Leaving  unconsidered  the  area  of  non-political  hu- 
manization,  that  might  even  provide  a  range  of  "free"  aes- 
thetic action  for  some  "loving"  type  of  artist  in  Hitler's 
Germany,  he  is  concerned  mainly  to  stress  his  disturbance  at 
the  rise  of  political  authoritarianism.  He  places  poetry  as 
the  opposite  of  authority  (which  seems  to  me  at  most  but  a 
half-truth);  and  approaching  social  problems  as  a  lover  of 
poetry,  he  sets  out  to  affirm  his  ideals  frankly  undeterred 
by  considerations  of  "practicability."  He  is  against  tune- 
calling.  And  since  tune-callers  are  "authorities"  of  one  sort 
or  another,  he  widens  his  position  into  a  general  plea  for 
anarchism,  as  the  only  completely  non-authoritarian  social 
225 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
structure.  He  would  not  recognize  the  authority  of  the 
"leader  principle,"  of  political  parties,  or  even  of  mores, 
traditional  or  newly  arisen. 

Ideal  anarchy  being,  by  definition,  that  state  of  affairs 
wherein  the  lion  and  the  lamb  shall  lie  down  together,  it 
would  not  be  relevant  for  a  reviewer  to  point  out  a  "prob- 
lem" or  a  "contradiction,"  even  if  he  thought  he  saw  one 
unmistakably.  Mr.  Read  states  a  set  of  wants — and  though 
wants  may  be  refused,  they  cannot  be  refuted.  Every  want 
is  sovereign  in  its  ideality.  Nor  can  there  be  any  contradic- 
tion in  the  expression  of  one's  wants,  since  one  is  also  free 
to  want  the  impossible.  In  the  realm  of  the  practical,  a  trend 
is  "opposed  to"  its  counter-trend;  but  in  the  realm  of  ideal- 
ity, this  trend  is  merely  "balanced  by"  its  counter-trend.  Our 
author  thus  already  enjoys  the  immunities  of  expression  he 
expects  of  the  hypothetical  anarchistic  world  society  in  the 
future. 

Mr.  Read  rightly,  I  think,  hits  upon  "authority"  as  a  focal 
word  for  his  concerns.  But  I  question  whether  the  problems  of 
authoritarianism  and  anti-authoritarianism,  as  they  affect  art, 
have  been  properly  elucidated  until  the  theorist  has  charted 
the  nature  of  identification  in  art,  a  subject  that  Mr.  Read 
leaves  undiscussed.  In  his  ingenious  book,  Science  and 
Sanity,  Anton  Korzybski  represents  a  brand  of  the  same  ato- 
mistic thinking  as  is  present  in  Mr.  Read's  vision  of  ideal 
anarchy,  with  its  society  of  sovereign  individuals.  He,  like 
Mr.  Reed,  seems  to  continue  the  nominalist  line  of  thought 
that  treats  a  group  as  an  aggregate  of  individuals,  in  contrast 
with  the  realistic  position  (now  being  reaffirmed  in  many 
bungling  and  cumbersome  ways,  but  with  much  soundness 
behind  it  nonetheless)  that  treats  i?idividuals  as  members  of 
a  group.  Mr.  Korzybski  correctly  rounds  out  his  atomistic, 
226 


CALLING    OF    THE    TUNE 

anti-authoritarian  position  by  an  explicit  attack  upon  the 
processes  of  identification.  And  until  Mr.  Read  does  the 
same,  one  cannot  accurately  know  just  what  his  views  on  the 
relation  between  artist  and  society  are. 

By  "identification"  I  have  in  mind  this  sort  of  thing:  one's 
material  and  mental  ways  of  placing  oneself  as  a  person  in 
the  groups  and  movements;  one's  ways  of  sharing  vicariously 
in  the  role  of  leader  or  spokesman;  formation  and  change  of 
allegiance;  the  rituals  of  suicide,  parricide,  and  prolicide, 
the  vesting  and  divesting  of  insignia,  the  modes  of  initiation 
and  purification,  that  are  involved  in  the  response  to  alle- 
giance and  change  of  allegiance;  the  part  necessarily  played 
by  groups  in  the  expectancies  of  the  individual  (as  Mr.  Read 
himself,  in  an  unguarded  moment,  tells  us  that  "a  group, 
a  sect,  a  party"  is  necessary  for  the  triumph  of  a  social  move- 
ment, while  he  attributes  the  origin  of  the  movement  to  one 
man,  and  such  a  founder  must  certainly  have  the  role  of 
leader,  with  followers  who  identify  themselves  with  him  as 
their  spokesman,  or  with  the  individual  or  body  they  take 
to  be  his  spiritual  heir  when  he  is  gone);  clothes,  uniforms, 
and  their  psychological  equivalents;  one's  ways  of  seeing 
one's  reflection  in  the  social  mirror. 

My  call  for  an  explicit  treatment  of  identification,  as 
necessary  to  the  description  of  both  positive  and  negative 
responses  to  authority,  is  all  the  more  justified  in  Mr.  Read's 
case,  since  he  avowedly  approaches  social  issues  as  a  lover  of 
art,  and  the  psychology  of  artistic  production  and  consump- 
tion involves  identification  processes  at  every  turn.  With 
Mr.  Korzybski  the  situation  is  different,  since  he  takes  an 
antipoetic  stand  on  the  subject  of  meaning. 

However,  had  Mr.  Read  begun  with  a  study  of  identifi- 
cation, I  doubt  whether  he  could  have  maintained  his  flatly 
227 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
anti-authoritarian  position.  And  I  believe  that  his  book 
would  have  been  a  better  one.  To  build  one's  statements 
around  an  absolutely  anti-authoritarian  wish  is  to  let  the 
authoritarians  be  master  of  the  controversy.  If  someone  said, 
for  instance,  "I  maintain  that  art  is  made  of  green  cheese," 
and  you  devoted  your  efforts  to  maintaining  that  it  isn't, 
your  own  statements  would  be  restricted  by  the  nature  of 
the  question  your  opponent  had  forced  upon  you.  And  an 
absolute  revolt  against  authority  in  all  its  forms  is  as  enslav- 
ing to  speculation  as  is  the  absolute  worship  of  authority. 
In  the  case  of  Mr.  Read,  it  seems  to  have  shunted  a  very  dis- 
criminating art  critic  into  the  most  oversimplified  of 
pamphleteering.  He  advocates  a  social  philosophy  in  the 
name  of  art,  yet  tells  us  almost  nothing  about  the  nature  of 
the  activity  in  whose  name  his  philosophy  is  advocated.  He 
restates  vehemently  the  ideal  that  John  Drinkwater  states 
mildly  in  the  quotation  by  Miss  Overmyer.  But  when  you 
are  through,  you  have  learned  nothing  more  about  the  intri- 
cacies of  the  issue  than  you  get  from  this  casual  epigram 
proposing  to  unite  the  best  possible  features  of  two  worlds. 

3 
God  knows,  there  are  ominous  structures  of  authority  tak- 
ing form  in  the  contemporary  world.  And  as  the  farmer, 
under  threat  of  invasion,  might  lay  down  his  hoe  and  take 
up  his  rifle  for  a  season,  so  might  the  writer,  like  Mr.  Read 
in  his  present  volume,  feel  that  an  act  of  propaganda  is  the 
kind  of  tithing  he  can  do,  at  a  time  when  personal  sacrifices 
may  be  demanded  of  all.  But  if  one  approaches  the  situation 
from  a  categorical  rejection  of  all  authority,  does  he  properly 
equip  himself  and  his  readers  for  a  choice  among  the  various 
real  structures  of  authority  that  necessarily  arise  whenever 
228 


CALLING    OF    THE    TUNE 

a  "vision"  is  given  embodiment  in  the  material  organizations 

of  "this  imperfect  world"? 

You  can  make  allowance  for  "necessary  evils,"  but  you 
have  introduced  a  device  that  can  be  used  to  justify  any- 
thing. Nor  can  you  solve  this  problem  by  categorically  re- 
fusing to  make  allowance  for  necessary  evils.  One  need  not 
consider  authority  as  a  necessary  evil  at  all,  but  as  a  power, 
hence  having  the  ambivalence  of  a  power,  to  effect  both  good 
and  evil.  It  is  not  only  a  necessary  evil  but  also  a  necessary 
good.  And  even  if  you  want  pure  anarchy,  you'll  only  get  it 
by  forming  "a  group,  a  sect,  a  party,"  with  all  the  aspects  of 
cohesion  and  representation  that  Mr.  Read  seems  to  distrust. 
Again,  if  the  ideal  anarchist  society  were  here,  its  perpetua- 
tion would  be  a  custom — and  a  poetry  such  as  Mr.  Read 
demands,  set  categorically  against  the  authority  of  custom, 
would  become  sheer  satanism. 

But  should  you  object  to  my  word  "identification"  above, 
try  in  its  stead  the  word  "representation."  The  artist,  as 
spokesman,  does  not  merely  represent  his  subject;  nor  does 
he  merely  represent  himself;  he  also  represents  his  readers, 
in  the  sense  in  which  a  legislator  is  said  to  represent  his  con- 
stituents. He  speaks  for  an  audience,  sometimes  sharply  de- 
marcated, as  in  "addressed"  writing,  sometimes  a  hypotheti- 
cal "Audience  X,"  with  whom  he  is  identified.  In  the  case  of 
the  commercial  or  political  mercenary  (the  latter  being  paid 
mainly  in  terms  of  esteem  and  trouble  in  situations  where  he 
is  at  odds  with  an  authoritative  patron)  his  role  as  representa- 
tive or  spokesman  places  the  maximum  restrictions  upon 
him.  This  is  particularly  true  when,  as  with  commercial  and 
political  dictatorship  over  the  artist,  he  is  not  directly  identi- 
fied with  the  bureau  of  patronage  (and  censorship)  that  is 
interposed  between  himself  and  the  public  at  large. 
229 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

When  this  identification  is  lacking,  he  must  rebel  despite 
himself.  He  must  produce  a  kind  of  involuntary  sabotage, 
willy-nilly  defacing  his  product:  being  ordered  to  glorify 
that  in  which  he  sees  no  glory,  he  cannot.  He  simply  "lacks 
the  talent."  If  great  genius  is  required  to  write  a  great  work 
embodying  the  values  in  which  one  does  believe,  think  how 
much  greater  genius  would  be  required  to  write  a  great 
work  embodying  values  in  which  one  did  not  believe! 
Hence,  in  proportion  as  dictatorship  seeks  to  force  and 
coach,  the  best  art  must  either  move  into  marginal  areas 
that  are  not  forced  and  coached,  or  must  turn  to  the  cata- 
combs. 

4 

In  our  highly  mobile  world  of  today,  the  usual  equivalent 
of  the  catacombs  is  exile.  Exile  or  silence  seem  to  be  the  only 
choices  open  to  writers  who,  born  and  trained  in  the  ways 
of  liberalism,  are  suddenly  compelled  to  meet  situations  of 
absolute  dictatorship  wholly  alien  to  their  training.  Bred  to 
one  situation,  with  their  methods  formed  by  it,  they  find 
a  totally  alien  situation  abruptly  forced  upon  them.  Thus, 
even  in  remaining  at  home,  they  would  be  living  in  a  kind 
of  exile,  a  world  with  new  deprivations  and  without  new 
promises  to  match. 

But  I  can  imagine  there  gradually  arising,  among  a 
younger  generation  of  writers  bred  to  the  new  situation,  a 
new  language  of  deployments  and  maneuvers,  with  sly  sallies 
that  have  an  implied  weighting  far  in  excess  of  their  surface 
meanings.  In  short,  I  am  suggesting  that  no  political  struc- 
ture, if  continued  long  enough  for  people  to  master  its  ways, 
is  capable  of  preventing  forms  of  expression  that  tug  at  the 
limits  of  patronage.  A  patronage  may  affect  the  conditions  of 
230 


CALLING    OF    THE    TUNE 

expression,  but  cannot  prevent  this  pressure  against  its 
limits.  Even  under  the  censorship  of  the  Czar,  for  instance, 
there  were  circumlocutions,  known  to  all  informed  readers, 
that  referred  to  the  day  when  the  Czar  would  be  deposed. 
Nor  were  these  any  less  known  to  the  censors  than  to  the 
readers.  They  were  allowed  in  part,  perhaps,  as  a  way  of 
revealing  to  government  agents  those  particular  authors  who 
might,  by  thus  expressing  their  attitudes,  provide  the  agents 
with  valuable  "leads"  into  more  serious  forms  of  conspiracy. 
One  could  even  imagine  the  emergence  of  a  particular 
aesthetic  school,  in  which  not  one  single  thought  or  image 
was  "subversive"  on  its  face,  yet  functioned  as  a  Bundschuh. 
Nazis  in  Poland,  for  instance,  wear  white  sox,  harmless 
enough  in  themselves,  yet  significant  enough  as  a  Bundschuh 
to  enrage  a  Polish  patriot — and  so  there  may  be  subtler 
aspects  of  a  style,  functioning  like  the  white  sox  in  Poland, 
even  stylistic  ways  of  wearing  anti-white-sox  in  Hitler's  Ger- 
many. So  with  "travel  literature"  like  that  of  Tacitus,  who 
wrote  under  conditions  of  dictatorship,  and  attacked  the  local 
political  situation  by  an  ambiguous  device,  in  presenting  an 
idealization  of  Germany  that  implied  a  criticism  of  Rome 
(the  point  is  taken  from  Jacques  Barzun's  interesting  book 
on  Race  Theories,  which  also  notes  some  irony  in  the  fact 
that  Tacitus,  for  progressive  purposes,  here  gave  the  first 
form  to  the  doctrines  of  "Nordic"  superiority  that  were 
subsequently  to  serve  the  ends  of  reactionaries).  Utopias 
have  regularly  arisen  in  this  way,  as  strategies  for  criticizing 
the  status  quo  with  immunity.  And  we  might  even  say  that 
the  conditions  are  "more  favorable"  to  satire  under  censor- 
ship than  under  liberalism — for  the  most  inventive  satire 
arises  when  the  artist  is  seeking  simultaneously  to  take  risks 
and  escape  punishment  for  his  boldness,  and  is  never  quite 
231 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

certain  himself  whether  he  will  be  acclaimed  or  punished. 
In  proportion  as  you  remove  these  conditions  of  danger,  by 
liberalization,  satire  becomes  arbitrary  and  effete,  attracting 
writers  of  far  less  spirit  and  scantier  resources. 

But  in  these  closing  paragraphs  I  may  seem  to  have  been 
bearing  out  Mr.  Read's  feeling  that  authority  is  but  some- 
thing to  revolt  against,  and  that  good  art  arises  only  in  so  far 
as  it  is  revolted  against.  On  the  contrary.  Though  I  would 
agree  that  the  artist  will  tug  at  the  limits  of  authority,  I  still 
insist  that  his  work  derives  its  strength  as  much  from  the 
structure  of  authority  as  from  his  modes  of  resistance.  Au- 
thority provides  the  gravitational  pull  necessary  to  a  work's 
firm  location. 

The  artist's  situation  is  most  difficult  when  the  authority 
is  not  directly  that  of  his  audience  (their  mores)  but  lies  with 
a  bureau  interposed  between  him  and  his  audience.  Yet  even 
here  there  is  no  flat  antithesis,  since  the  bureau  itself  is  com- 
posed of  officials  who  share,  to  varying  degrees,  the  values  of 
the  citizenry  they  represent.  Even  where  they  would  force 
certain  political  or  social  judgments,  there  may  be  a  com- 
plete identity  of  judgment,  among  writer,  citizenry,  and 
bureau,  about  certain  values  that  are  considered  heroic, 
villainous,  desirable,  undesirable,  and  the  like.  And  when 
we  are  talking  of  a  work  as  it  is,  realistically,  we  must  con- 
sider it  in  its  totality,  not  singling  out  some  one  feature  and 
treating  this,  in  its  isolation,  as  the  "essence"  of  art.  If,  in- 
stead of  this  "essentializing"  approach  (that  abstracts  one 
ingredient  in  a  work  as  the  significant  element  and  over- 
looks the  rest),  you  analyze  the  individual  work  as  a  recipe, 
with  a  proportion  of  ingredients,  you  will  quickly  discover 
that  the  proportion  of  revolt  against  authority  is  slight.  And 

099 


CALLING    OF    THE    TUNE 

this  is  true  especially  of  works  that  prod  governments  to  be 
reformed  or  topple. 

There  is  but  one  kind  of  art  in  which  this  proportion  of 
revolt  is  great.  I  refer  to  the  kind  of  art  we  get  in  the  Joyce- 
Stein-transition  school.  It  is  almost  100  per  cent  anti-authori- 
tarian (except,  in  the  best  of  it,  for  a  good  slavishness  to  the 
dictates  of  the  ear),  and  allows  the  artist  maximum  freedom 
of  improvisation.  Yet  it  is  precisely  here  that  we  find,  by  the 
ambiguities  of  the  Bundschuh,  the  kind  of  art  most  thor- 
oughly preparatory  to  political  authoritarianism  in  its  strict- 
est forms.  For  the  greater  the  dissociation  and  discontinuity 
developed  by  the  artist  in  an  otherworldly  art  that  leaves  the 
things  of  Caesar  to  take  care  of  themselves,  the  greater  be- 
comes the  artist's  dependence  upon  some  ruler  who  will 
accept  the  responsibility  for  doing  the  world's  "dirty  work." 
Thus,  a  thoroughly  anti-authoritarian  aesthetic  requires,  as 
its  logical  complement,  that  its  advocates  accept  (as  a  "neces- 
sary evil"  to  keep  the  material  continuities  of  the  world  in 
operation)  any  structure  of  authority  able  to  prove  itself  on 
a  "Darwinian"  basis,  by  success  in  prevailing  over  rival 
structures  of  authority.  Begin  by  rejecting  all  authority,  and 
you  end  by  accepting  any. 


233 


WAR,  RESPONSE, 
AND  CONTRADICTION 


THE  various  arguments  in  recent  years  as  to  the  relation 
between  art  and  propaganda  may  have  struck  some  observers 
as  purely  a  haggle  among  literary  specialists.  Yet  the  issue  is 
a  vital  one,  and  carries  far  beyond  a  mere  matter  of  literary 
fashions.  Aesthetical  values  are  intermingled  with  ethical 
values — and  the  ethical  is  the  basis  of  the  practical.  Or,  put 
more  simply:  our  ideas  of  the  beautiful,  the  curious,  the 
interesting,  the  unpleasant,  the  boring  are  closely  bound 
with  our  ideas  of  the  good,  the  desirable,  the  undesirable — 
and  our  ideas  of  the  desirable  and  undesirable  have  much  to 
do  with  our  attitudes  towards  our  everyday  activities.  They 
make  us  ask  ourselves,  more  or  less  consciously:  Are  we  do- 
ing the  things  we  want  to  do?  to  what  extent  is  there  a  breach 
between  what  we  must  do  and  what  we  should  like  to  do? 
Probably  for  this  reason,  even  the  most  practical  of  revolu- 
tions will  generally  be  found  to  have  manifested  itself  first 
in  the  "aesthetic"  sphere. 

Then  it  is  no  academic  matter  to  concern  oneself  with  the 
implications  of  books.  And  however  much  one  may  disagree 
with  the  results  of  Michael  Gold's  patient  search  for  the 
faintest  chemical  traces  of  fascism  and  anti-Semitism  in  the 
"pure"  poetry  of  Archibald  MacLeish,  one  must  grant  that 
the  intention  is  justified.  Points  of  view  first  make  themselves 
apparent  in  the  realm  of  "fancy."  In  time  they  come  to  be 
234 


WAR,    RESPONSE,    CONTRADICTION 

carried  into  the  structure  of  our  sciences,  so  that  savants 
can  train  their  telescopes  upon  the  infinite  or  their  micro- 
scopes upon  the  infinitesimal  and  find  there  what  they  were 
looking  for.  Even  theories  of  psychology  eventually  suc- 
cumb to  the  same  pattern,  the  same  "perspective" — and 
lastly,  perhaps,  the  cultural  lag  of  our  social  institutions 
themselves  is  made  to  budge  somewhat,  and  the  point  of 
view  which  began  as  a  poet's  irresponsible  "inkling"  attains 
its  embodiment  in  the  very  architecture  of  the  state. 

For  such  reasons,  the  question  of  the  relationship  between 
art  and  society  is  momentous — and  the  Battle  of  the  Books 
now  in  progress  is  no  mere  tempest  in  a  teapot.  To  an  ex- 
tent, books  merely  exploit  our  attitudes — and  to  an  extent 
they  may  form  our  attitudes.  The  difference  between  exploi- 
tation and  formation  may  be  illustrated  by  war  literature. 
A  work  picturing  the  "atrocities"  of  the  enemy  would  ex- 
ploit our  attitude  towards  such  atrocities.  It  would  arouse 
our  resentment  by  depicting  the  kind  of  incidents  which  we 
already  hated  prior  to  this  specific  work  of  art.  Such  a  work 
might  form  our  attitudes  by  picturing  a  certain  specific  peo- 
ple as  committing  these  atrocities:  it  would  serve  to  aggra- 
vate our  vindictiveness  towards  this  particular  people. 

The  whole  issue  was  revealed  in  some  of  its  most  perplex- 
ing aspects  by  the  controversy  (in  The  New  Republic  of 
September  20,  1933)  between  Archibald  MacLeish  and  Mal- 
colm Cowley  on  the  subject  of  the  volume,  The  First  World 
War,  edited  by  Laurence  Stallings.  MacLeish  seems  mainly 
concerned  with  the  poet's  response  to  experience,  and  Cow- 
ley with  the  public's  response  to  the  poet.  There  is  thus  some 
talking  at  cross-purposes;  but  the  discussion  is  particularly 
vital,  it  seems  to  me,  because  it  keeps  so  near  to  the  heart  of 
the  problem.  Art  is  a  means  of  communication.  As  such  it 

235 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

is  certainly  designed  to  elicit  a  "response"  of  some  sort.  And 
the  present  article  will  attempt,  by  using  the  MacLeish- 
Cowley  controversy  as  a  point  de  depart,  to  offer  some  con- 
siderations as  to  the  nature  of  human  response  in  general, 
and  to  make  deductions  from  them. 

MacLeish  begins  by  objecting  because  The  First  World 
War  pictures  only  the  repellent  side  of  the  War.  The  War 
was  heroic  and  adventurous  as  well  as  horrible,  MacLeish 
asserts,  yet  Stallings  here  omits  the  heroic  and  adventurous 
aspects  entirely.  Though  we  are  today  largely  what  the  War 
made  of  us,  MacLeish  seems  to  feel  that  we  owe  the  War 
some  courtesy,  some  allegiance:  we  must  be  "truthful"  about 
the  War.  Even  now  we  must  not  use  the  War  to  our  pur- 
poses, but  must  continue  to  be  victimized  by  it.  If  it  was  a 
"human"  war,  the  honest  poet  must  say  so,  and  will  say  so, 
regardless  of  the  effects  upon  society.  Such  seems  to  be  Mac- 
Leish's  position — and  on  the  face  of  it,  it  does  not  look  very 
defensible.  Artistic  scrupulosity  is  an  expensive  luxury,  if 
it  is  to  be  obtained  at  the  expense  of  society  as  a  whole. 

MacLeish  may  be  confusing  two  issues.  He  seems  to  take 
it  for  granted  that  the  new  book,  edited  by  Stallings,  is  about 
the  last  war.  Hence,  recalling  by  personal  experience  that 
the  War  had  its  profoundly  human  side,  he  complains  that 
the  new  book  is  an  incomplete  record,  artistically  dishonest. 
For  the  artist  must  record  "those  things,  seen  or  unseen, 
which  have  actually  occurred  .  .  .  regardless  of  their  effect 
upon  the  minds  of  the  young  or  the  minds  of  the  old."  Thus, 
a  picture  of  the  War  should  also  include  its  noble  and  ad- 
venturous side,  be  the  final  effect  "immoral"  or  not.  Yet  it  is 
highly  questionable  whether  the  true  subject  of  The  First 
World  War  is  an  actual  war  at  all.  The  very  title  would  sug- 
gest that  it  is  about  an  anticipated  war.  And  I  think  that 
236 


WAR,    RESPONSE,    CONTRADICTION 

Cowley  is  more  nearly  correct  on  this  point,  since  he  is 
concerned  with  our  responses  to  the  possibility  of  war  rather 
than  with  our  responses  to  a  war  already  gone  into  history. 
Now:  anticipated  events  are  quite  properly  idealized  in  art. 
It  is  a  commonplace  of  psychology,  human  and  universal 
enough  for  any  poet  to  draw  upon,  that  we  expect  things  to 
be  either  much  better  or  much  worse  than  they  turn  out  to 
be.  Anticipation  is  by  very  nature  an  abstractive  process,  a 
simplification;  as  such,  it  has  an  interpretative  or  "phil- 
osophic" consistency  which  events  in  actuality  do  not  have. 
The  future  itself  is  a  "work  of  art"  until  it  is  actually  upon 
us.  Thus,  one  may  be  quite  within  his  rights  when  picturing 
a  future  war  either  as  all  heroism  and  adventure  or  as  all 
hideousness.  Where  indeed  can  MacLeish  point  to  the  au- 
thority of  the  events  "as  they  actually  occurred,"  when  the 
occurrence  is  still  confined  to  the  poet's  symbols  themselves? 
To  be  sure  when  writing  of  an  anticipated  war,  the 
artist  must  select  his  material  out  of  the  past  and  the  present. 
All  anticipation  is  such  selection,  whether  it  involve  one's 
forebodings  about  an  international  calamity  or  one's  at- 
tempt to  decide  whether  the  red  sky  at  night  will  be  shep- 
herd's delight  and  the  red  sky  at  morning  shepherd's  warn- 
ing. For  the  poet,  not  all  of  such  material  is  confined  to 
objective  events.  Much  of  it  lives  in  the  memory,  emphases, 
interests,  preferences,  and  apprehensions  of  his  contem- 
poraries. In  writing,  he  handles  not  merely  a  past  situation, 
but  also  a  present  one.  The  Rosetta  Stone  was  carved  for 
the  purpose  of  conveying  certain  information  local  to  the 
times.  It  became  important  to  us  as  a  key  for  deciphering 
Egyptian.  We  owe  the  stone  no  allegiance.  We  use  it  for  our 
purposes,  for  a  "truth"  which  did  not  exist  at  the  time  of 
its  erection. 

237 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

Is  there  a  kind  of  naive  realism  lurking  at  the  bottom  of 
MacLeish's  exhortation?  Though  at  one  point  he  complains 
against  Marxian  "absolutism,"  does  he  not  himself  grow 
absolutist  in  assuming  that  the  War  possesses  one  definite, 
absolute  character  which  must  remain  unchanged  through- 
out history?  To  the  people  on  Morgan's  preferred  lists, 
Morgan  has  a  different  "character"  than  he  has  for  the 
people  not  on  his  preferred  lists.  Yet  it  is  one  and  the  same 
Morgan  in  both  relationships.  The  analogy  might  suggest 
that  "character"  is  largely  a  matter  of  relationship,  and  is 
necessarily  changed  by  a  change  in  relationship.  And  if 
our  relationship  to  war  is  different  now  from  what  it  was  in 
1916,  why  must  we  attempt  to  uphold,  by  strange  canons  of 
"truth,"  the  "1916  character"  of  war? 

Are  not  wars  what  we  make  of  them — like  stones  and 
trees,  like  Napoleon  and  the  history  of  Greece?  And  might 
we  not  very  humanly  want  to  make  a  different  thing  of  them 
in  anticipation  than  in  actuality?  When  we  are  inescapably 
in  one,  the  only  wise  thing  to  do  is  to  make  it  as  decent  as  we 
can,  thereby  maintaining  some  continuity  of  our  humane- 
ness even  under  conditions  of  slaughter.  But  when  we  are 
not  at  war,  no  such  grave  psychological  obligation  is  upon  us 
— we  are  not  vowed  by  the  actualities  of  our  predicament  to 
tell  ourselves  that  even  war  can  be  a  cultural  way  of  life. 
Hence,  I  hold  that  MacLeish  has  been  discussing  a  poet's 
response  to  a  past  actual  war  whereas  the  question  is  really 
about  an  audience's  response  to  a  future  anticipated  war. 
Yet  strangely  enough,  when  we  consider  the  matter  from  this 
point  of  view,  MacLeish's  plea  for  a  total  picture  of  war  has 
much  to  be  said  in  its  favor.  There  are  some  reasons  for  be- 
lieving that  the  response  to  a  human  picture  of  war  will  be 
socially  more  wholesome  than  our  response  to  an  inhuman 
238 


WAR,  RESPONSE,  CONTRADICTION 
one.  It  is  questionable  whether  the  feelings  of  horror,  re- 
pugnance, hatred  would  furnish  the  best  groundwork  as  a 
deterrent  to  war.  They  are  extremely  militaristic  attitudes, 
being  in  much  the  same  category  of  emotion  as  one  might 
conceivably  experience  when  plunging  his  bayonet  into  the 
flesh  of  the  enemy.  And  they  might  well  provide  the  firmest 
basis  upon  which  the  "heroism"  of  a  new  war  could  be 
erected.  The  greater  the  horror,  the  greater  the  thrill  and 
honor  of  enlistment.  I  can  imagine  an  upstanding  young  fel- 
low, when  Der  Tag  is  again  upon  us,  pointing  to  photographs 
of  mutilated  bodies,  and  saying  quietly  but  firmly  to  his 
sweetheart,  who  adores  him:  "See  those?  That  is  what  war  is. 
Dearie,  this  day  I  have  enlisted  in  the  service  of  my  coun- 
try." The  sly  cartoonists  of  The  New  Yorker  might  possibly 
do  most  to  discourage  militarism,  while  deeply  pious  tracts 
are  but  the  preparation  for  new  massacres.  They  may  be  the 
first  stage  of  the  next  combat — the  preparatory  "aesthetic 
barrage" — staunchly  building  by  the  collation  of  military 
horrors  the  imagery  which  will  be  drawn  upon  in  sharpen- 
ing our  concepts  of  heroism.  In  any  event,  we  do  know  that 
a  batch  of  such  material  preceded  the  "conversion"  of  Ger- 
many from  the  psychology  of  Wandering  Birds  to  the  psy- 
chology of  Brown  Shirts. 

Such  possibilities  bring  us  to  a  surprising  state  of  affairs. 
If,  by  picturing  only  the  hideous  side  of  war,  we  lay  the 
aesthetic  groundwork  above  which  a  new  stimulus  to  "hero- 
ism" can  be  constructed,  might  a  picture  of  war  as  thor- 
oughly human  serve  conversely  as  the  soundest  deterrent  to 
war?  I  have  never  seen  anyone  turn  from  The  Iliad  a-froth 
with  desire  for  slaughter.  And  might  MacLeish,  who  fears 
that  he  is  being  socially  irresponsible  when  he  pleads  for  a 
"whole"  war,  with  all  its  contradictions,  really  be  pleading 
239 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
for  the  most  ethical  presentation  of  all?  He  would  recall 
"a  war  of  parades,  speeches,  brass  bands,  bistros,  boredom, 
terror,  anguish,  heroism,  endurance,  humor,  death."  He 
would  have  a  "human  war,"  recorded  with  "neither  morality, 
nor  text,  nor  lesson."  And  though  he  is  humble  at  the 
thought,  and  even  willing  to  damn  the  artist  as  "an  enemy 
of  society"  (at  least,  so  far  as  a  society's  temporal  aberrations 
are  concerned)  is  there  not  much  to  be  said  in  favor  of  his 
"human"  war  as  deterrent  where  a  picture  of  an  "inhuman" 
war  might  act  as  stimulant? 

For  one  thing,  a  human  war,  picturing  gentleness,  com- 
panionship, humor,  respect  for  courage  (in  the  enemy  as 
well  as  among  one's  own  ranks),  dignity  in  suffering,  refusal 
to  admire  the  jockeyings  and  elbowings  for  position  which 
characterize  so  much  of  our  efforts  under  conditions  of 
capitalist  peace — such  a  human  picture  might  be  less  likely 
to  encourage  the  hysteria  which,  in  its  intensity,  can  be  con- 
verted into  its  antithesis  at  a  moment's  notice,  becoming  the 
counterhysteria  of  rabidity  and  ferocity.  It  may  really  serve 
to  promote,  not  warlike  zest,  but  a  cultural  approach  towards 
the  question  of  human  happiness,  a  sense  of  critical  ap- 
praisal, and  incidentally,  a  realization  that  the  purposes  of 
humanity  may  best  be  attained  through  the  machinery  of 
peace.  If  there  is  any  sound  reason  for  discovering  the  cul- 
tural superiority  of  peace  over  war,  the  surest  way  to  arrive 
at  it  would  be  through  a  total,  restful  attitude  towards  war 
itself.  Sunday-school  texts  have  ever  been  considered  by 
sophisticated  moralists  the  essential  stimulus  to  "sin" — and 
I  see  no  reason  why  the  same  fact  should  not  apply  to  a 
Sunday-school  simplification  in  dealing  with  the  problems 
of  war.  On  the  other  hand,  let  war  be  put  forward  as  a 
cultural  ivay  of  life,  as  one  channel  of  effort  in  which  people 
240 


WAR,    RESPONSE,    CONTRADICTION 

can  be  profoundly  human,  and  you  induce  in  the  reader  the 
fullest  possible  response  to  war,  precisely  such  a  response 
as  might  best  lead  one  to  appreciate  the  preferable  ways  of 
peace. 

There  is  another  paradoxical  fact  to  be  considered.  A 
book  wholly  constructed  of  the  repellent  may  partially  close 
the  mind  to  the  repellent.  It  may  call  forth,  as  its  response, 
a  psychological  callus,  a  protective  crust  of  insensitiveness. 
Horrors  strike  deeper  when  they  strike  out  of  a  sweet  and 
gentle  context,  as  the  highly  contradictory  genius  of  Thomas 
Mann's  The  Magic  Mountain  testifies.  And  when  they  do 
strike,  note  how  they  strike:  for  one  has  been  responding  to 
the  humanity  of  humans;  one  has  been  warmed;  one  pre- 
sumably is  aglow — and  then  of  a  sudden  one  sees  these  hu- 
man concentration-points  of  courage  and  tenderness  blasted 
into  hell.  What,  in  the  end,  would  he  carry  away  with  him, 
if  not  a  wincing,  and  a  regret  at  the  realization  of  how  much 
is  tossed  away  by  war,  the  waste  of  full  cultural  possibilities 
which  the  way  of  culture-through-war  really  involves? 

Is  there  not  today  in  criticism  the  assumption  that  people 
are  quite  as  direct  as  machines  in  their  responses?  Cowley, 
for  instance,  attributes  MacLeish's  difficulty  to  a  very  rudi- 
mentary kind  of  conditioning,  a  stimulus-response  connec- 
tion almost  as  simple  and  direct  as  the  causal  connection 
between  pushbutton  and  doorbell.  During  the  period  of 
service  in  the  last  War,  Cowley  says,  MacLeish  saw  many 
posters,  proclaiming:  "These  dead  shall  not  have  died  in 
vain."  And  now,  still  obedient  to  this  stimulus,  MacLeish 
responds  automatically  by  insisting  that  the  War  was  a 
noble  war,  in  which  men  did  not  fight  in  vain,  where  "some 
few  ridiculously  believed  in  the  thing  for  which  (or  so  they 
thought)  they  died."  Cowley  suggests  that  "Echoing  through 
241 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
his  mind  must  be  those  words  so  often  printed  on  posters," 
and  as  MacLeish  recalls  dead  friends,  he  recalls  them  hal- 
lowed by  this  slogan. 

The  slogan,  to  begin  with,  seems  hardly  such  a  cunning  one 
as  to  have  very  deeply  impressed  a  poet  of  MacLeish's  stature, 
and  particularly  a  poet  of  MacLeish's  sophistication.  I  can 
even  imagine  that  a  great  many  real  and  very  moving  events 
must  have  had  to  occur  behind  the  lines  and  in  the  trenches 
before  the  doubts  raised  by  so  blunt  an  advertisement  could 
have  been  erased  from  the  poet's  mind.  But  that  is  too  "sub- 
jective" an  approach.  I  shall  turn  to  such  matters  of  response 
as  are  more  accessible  to  discussion. 

It  is  understandable  that,  in  an  age  intensely  character- 
ized by  the  "rationality"  of  its  machines,  we  should  attempt 
as  much  as  possible  to  consider  human  psychology  from  the 
interpretative  point  of  view,  the  "perspective,"  furnished  us 
by  the  mechanistic  metaphor.  By  this  machine  perspective, 
things  may  do  one  of  two  things:  they  either  "go  straight" 
or  they  "get  out  of  order."  Extending  this  metaphorical 
usage  to  people,  we  necessarily  eliminate  any  intermediate 
position,  such  as  the  possibility  that  people  might  go  crooked 
and  yet  be  in  order.  Is  it  possible  that  the  assumption  of 
a  rational  psychology  for  explaining  human  responses  is 
based  too  faithfully  upon  an  analogy  with  the  procedures 
of  our  masters,  the  machines?  Do  we  tend  to  imagine  a  hu- 
man psychology  patterned  too  literally  after  the  best  factory 
models,  a  schema  of  stimulus  and  response  whereby  you  put 
in  leather  and  take  out  leather  goods,  or  put  in  iron  and 
take  out  iron  pots?  Or,  returning  to  the  issues  of  war:  you 
put  in  war-horrors  and  take  out  antimilitarism,  put  in  "hu- 
man" pictures  of  war  and  take  out  war-spirit.  It  may  be  that 
the  assumption  is  justified,  that  the  approach  to  man  from 
242 


WAR,  RESPONSE,  CONTRADICTION 
the  perspective  supplied  by  the  processes  of  the  machine 
really  does  yield  all  that  we  have  to  know  about  his  ways 
of  assimilation.  Yet  biological  analogies  would  suggest  that 
the  putting-in  and  the  taking-out  are  often  qualitatively 
different.  For  the  present,  I  wish  merely  to  raise  the  ques- 
tion. Does  a  book  act  precisely  as  it  seems  to  do  on  the  face 
of  it — a  pro-this  book  making  one  pro-this,  an  anti-that  book 
making  one  anti-that?  Is  the  machine  metaphor,  the  assump- 
tion that  we  have  only  a  choice  between  "rationality"  and 
"breakdown,"  enough  to  describe  the  ways  of  biologic  re- 
sponse? And,  if  we  do  use  the  perspective  of  the  factory,  can 
we  use  it  in  this  way:  put  humanity  in,  and  you  take  cul- 
ture out;  put  inhumanity  in,  and  you  take  ferocity  out? 

Imagine  setting  a  lamp  on  the  very  edge  of  a  table.  Sup- 
pose that  it  gave  you  better  light  there  for  your  purposes, 
unless  someone  knocked  it  off.  If  knocked  off,  it  might  do 
great  damage.  .  .  .  Are  any  literary  effects  of  this  sort?  Does 
literature  ever  promote  ways  which  are  "neutral"  in  them- 
selves (as  is  the  lamp),  but  which,  depending  upon  other  cir- 
cumstances, may  either  give  light  or  burn  down  one's  house? 
At  least  we  know  that  such  is  the  case  with  moral  systems.  A 
moral  attitude  may  be  adopted  by  one  class,  for  instance,  to 
help  them  in  their  work,  and  may  be  promoted  by  another 
class  to  keep  them  at  their  work.  Again,  how  accurate  a 
gauge  of  response  is  verbalization?  Consider  the  many  ques- 
tionnaires which  used  to  fly  about,  in  the  heydey  of  the  New 
Era,  when  philanthropists  were  financing  all  sorts  of  in- 
genious fact-finding  escapades  as  a  social-minded  way  of  cut- 
ting down  their  income  taxes.  To  what  extent  were  the 
answers  a  just  revelation  of  attitude?  For  my  own  part,  I 
can  only  say:  God  pity  the  findings  of  such  investigations  if 
those  persons  who  were  interrogated  were  not  vastly  more 
243 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

skilled  in  the  verbalizations  of  their  attitudes  under  such 

conditions  than  I  am. 

For  the  moment,  we  leave  the  issue  vague.  I  believe  that 
there  are  good  grounds  for  suspecting  that  man's  responses 
are  normally  of  a  contradictory  nature.  There  is  a  kind  of 
"one  to  one"  correspondence  between  stimulus  and  response 
which  is  assumed  in  much  contemporary  criticism,  and  I 
believe  that  it  is  not  justified.  Does  antimilitarism  produce 
antimilitarism,  corruption  corruption,  quietude  quietude, 
acceptance  acceptance,  individualism  individualism,  etc.?  I 
think  that  the  entire  issue  must  be  broadened  considerably. 

I  wish  to  offer  evidence  for  suspecting  that  irrationality , 
or  contradictoriness  of  response,  is  basic  to  human  psy- 
chology, not  merely  as  error,  but  for  sound  biological  rea- 
sons; and  this  particularly  at  those  depths  of  human  sensi- 
tiveness which  are  implicated  in  the  religious,  ethical,  poetic, 
or  volitional  aspects  of  man  (the  four  adjectives  are  synony- 
mous for  my  purposes,  but  the  reader  may  prefer  one  or 
another  of  them). 

Continuing  with  the  controversy  over  The  First  World 
War,  I  would  note  a  dismaying  paradox  which  arises  at  the 
beginning  of  Cowley's  article.  After  matching  some  of  Mac- 
Leish's  statements  against  others,  he  holds  that  they  cancel 
one  another.  On  the  face  of  it,  no  procedure  in  controversy 
could  be  sounder  than  that  of  exposing  "contradictions"  in 
the  assertions  of  one's  opponent.  But  where  do  we  stand  if 
we  find  these  contradictions  exposed  in  a  magazine  which  is 
continually  and  valuably  instructing  us  as  to  the  "contra- 
dictions of  capitalism"?  Now,  if  our  capitalist  social  struc- 
ture contains  fundamental  contradictions,  and  the  poet's 
imagination  is  piously  and  sensitively  constructed  after  the 
environmental  patterns  among  which  he  arose,  how  could 
244 


WAR,  RESPONSE,  CONTRADICTION 
a  man  born  and  bred  under  capitalism  be  expected  to  hon- 
estly and  totally  express  his  attitudes  without  revealing  a 
contradiction  in  them?  In  a  society  plagued  by  contradic- 
tions, one  might  more  justly  employ  the  opposite  kind  of 
rebuttal,  and  seek  to  discredit  a  man's  thinking  by  exposing 
the  fact  that  it  was  poor  in  fundamental  contradictions. 

This  is  no  plea  for  loose  thinking.  Our  statements  should 
certainly  be  required  to  meet  the  tests  of  compatibility,  at 
least  to  the  extent  that,  where  they  are  at  odds,  we  offer 
a  shuttle  concept  for  getting  from  one  to  the  other.  Cowley 
is  certainly  justified  in  exposing  any  point  at  which,  to  his 
mind,  such  shuttle  concepts  are  needed  and  are  lacking. 
But  in  so  far  as  our  statements  are  taken  merely  to  indicate 
our  underlying  attitude,  they  should  in  some  way  or  other 
reveal  a  contradiction  of  attitudes  if  they  arose  out  of  our 
response  to  an  economic  structure  distinguished  above  all  by 
the  genius  of  the  contradictory.  Liberals  have  long  suffered 
in  silence  under  this  curse,  since  they  are  half  the  time 
advocating  reforms  when  they  know  that  reforms  interfere 
with  fundamental  change.  And  even  the  Communists,  who 
in  America  are  still  living  by  the  dictates  of  capitalism,  be- 
came involved  in  a  similar  contradiction  when  they  began 
pleading  for  unemployment  insurance  which,  if  adequate, 
might  put  off  the  Revolution  forever.  John  Maynard  Keynes 
once  noted  a  similar  predicament  among  the  English  so- 
cialists: put  them  in  power  in  an  ailing  capitalist  structure, 
and  they  inevitably  fall  into  the  muddle-headed  position 
of  attempting  to  patch  up  the  very  structure  they  would 
abolish. 

I  believe  there  is  a  corresponding  emotional  contradiction 
in  our  society  which  has  done  much  to  interfere  with  a 
unified  moral  attitude,  radically  splitting  our  ethical  re- 

245 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
sponses  into  two  largely  antithetical  compartments.  Under 
typical  industrialized  capitalism,  there  are  important  influ- 
ences making  for  acquiescence  to  its  ways  and  equally  im- 
portant influences  tending  to  carry  one  beyond  capitalism. 
The  doctrines  of  "emancipation"  are  a  case  in  point.  It  was 
under  the  aegis  of  "emancipation"  that  the  commercial  state 
arose  and  conquered  the  feudal  state — yet  this  same  stressing 
or  emphasis  threatens  to  endanger  the  commercialists'  he- 
gemony itself,  once  they  become  thoroughly  entrenched  in 
their  privileges.  In  this  sense,  the  very  kingpin  of  Marxian 
exhortation  is  a  virtue  stressed  by  capitalist  enterprise,  a 
standard  developing  out  of  the  very  laissez-faire  psychosis 
which  Communism  would  abolish.  It  is  a  principle  of 
change,  hence  interferes  with  the  stabilization  of  any  status 
quo.  Similarly,  a  certain  degree  of  literacy  has  been  a  neces- 
sary instrument  for  shaping  contemporary  man  to  his  place 
as  customer,  salesman,  and  potential  soldier — yet  this  same 
literacy  has  afforded  all  sorts  of  people  momentous  glimpses 
into  the  critical  lore  of  mankind,  thus  serving  again  and 
again  to  hamper  the  processes  of  naive  accommodation  that 
might  otherwise  have  taken  place.  The  freedom  of  criticism 
which,  originally  aimed  at  priesthood  and  nobles,  was  finally 
turned  to  practical  and  acquisitive  purpose  by  the  rising 
commercial  class,  tended  throughout  the  nineteenth  cen- 
tury to  transcend  this  function  and  become  a  criticism  of 
commerce  itself.  The  writings  of  Marx  are  perhaps  the  pur- 
est example  of  this  tendency  in  the  theoretical  sphere;  the 
same  trend  was  exemplified  in  the  imaginative  sphere  by 
the  various  social  satirists,  Bohemians,  paradoxists,  romantic, 
neoclassical,  and  primitivistic  poets  of  "refusal,"  culminat- 
ing perhaps  in  the  symbolizations  of  the  Ivory  Tower, 
writers  whom  Edmund  Wilson  has  treated  somewhat  un- 
246 


WAR,    RESPONSE,    CONTRADICTION 

fairly,  as  they  did  not  content  themselves  with  a  merely 
negative  attitude  towards  the  contemporary  state  of  affairs, 
but  went  aggressively  to  work  depicting  alternative  exist- 
ences, other  and  preferable  worlds. 

In  the  end,  we  have  here  "two  moralities" — and  the  ac- 
tive, conscientious,  well-educated  member  of  Western  cul- 
ture showed  himself  thoroughly  versed  in  both  of  them.  The 
one  prevailed  largely  in  "glimpses,"  compensating  by  in- 
tensity for  what  it  lacked  in  permanence,  as  earnest  and  un- 
easy young  men,  browsing  about  their  local  libraries  in  the 
indeterminate  years  before  they  had  definitely  settled  down 
to  "serious  business,"  found  opportunities  and  incentives  to 
nibble  at  the  fringes  of  a  humanistic,  cultured  way  of  life. 
They  even  tentatively  encouraged  in  themselves  such  char- 
acteristics and  interests  and  standards  as  would  prepare  them 
to  be  decent  integers  in  a  world  so  constructed.  Here  was 
the  possibility  of  poetry,  which  they  could  find  substantiated 
in  the  imagery  of  books,  and  at  certain  moments  even  dared 
think  might  attain  its  parallels  in  the  architecture  of  the 
state. 

However,  the  need  of  a  counter-morality  clearly  made 
itself  felt.  For  a  morality  is  but  a  set  of  attitudes  and  ways 
of  thinking  which  enable  us  the  better  to  do  the  things  we 
must  do — and  unless  one  happened  to  be  supported  by  un- 
earned increment  from  the  capitalist  structure,  he  found  it 
imperative  that  he  either  cultivate  the  "capitalist  virtues" 
or  perish.  As  Veblen  once  neatly  pointed  out,  opportunities 
to  get  ahead  are  likewise  opportunities  to  fall  behind — and 
though  one  may  well  ask  himself  whether  a  desire  to  tri- 
umph in  the  Scramble  marks  a  very  high  cultural  ideal, 
neither  is  it  very  "cultural"  to  find  oneself  edged  further 
and  further  into  the  ditch.  Some  people  supported  by 
247 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
coupon-clipping  could  afford  to  "scorn"  the  very  virtues  of 
salesmanship,  bluster,  and  brass  out  of  which  their  income 
was  arising;  likewise,  the  artists  could  escape  to  an  extent, 
sometimes  by  addressing  their  imagery  to  the  class  of  coupon- 
clippers  themselves,  but  more  often  by  writing  for  what 
might  be  called  the  coupon-clipping  portion  of  the  mind  of 
drudges.  In  general,  however,  the  entire  populace  had  to 
equip  itself  for  the  demands  of  the  Scramble  by  adopting 
a  morality  in  keeping.  This  they  could  best  accomplish  by 
accepting  a  picture  of  the  "good  life"  built  around  the  ideal 
of  the  "live-wire"  salesman,  with  culture  taken  to  mean  the 
maximum  purchase  of  manufactured  commodities. 

The  result  was  a  moral  split  which  became  more  and 
more  sharply  characterized  in  imaginative  literature  as  the 
character  of  the  nineteenth  century  took  form.  Out  of  books, 
out  of  delightful  moments  in  one's  personal  life,  out  of 
sporadic  voyages,  out  of  vacational  experiences  as  distinct 
from  vocational  ones,  people  got  visions  of  a  noncompetitive 
structure  of  living,  a  "good  life"  involving  gentle  surround- 
ings, adequate  physical  outlets,  the  pursuit  of  knowledge, 
etc.,  and  the  very  slogans  of  the  commercial  ethic  assured 
them  that  they  were  "entitled"  to  all  this.  At  the  same  time 
they  had  to  meet  the  conditions  of  the  daily  Scramble — 
jockeying,  outselling,  outsmarting — demands  better  justified 
by  the  price  they  brought  than  by  the  wholesome  calls  they 
made  upon  mind  and  body.  This  contradiction  led  to  the 
artistic  phenomenon  generally  and  inappropriately  desig- 
nated a  "breach  between  art  and  life."  It  was  naturally  in 
the  field  of  the  aesthetic  (the  "vacational")  that  the  opposi- 
tion to  practical  ("vocational")  demands  could  best  be  kept 
alive.  Conditions  of  economic  combat  necessarily  silenced  or 
stunted  the  noncommercial  morality  between  the  hours  of 
248 


WAR,    RESPONSE,    CONTRADICTION 

nine  and  five.  Often,  the  problem  was  resolved  by  a  man's 
enjoying  vicious  satire  and  the  contemplation  of  lovely  or 
hectic  alternative  worlds  with  the  "after  hours"  portion  of 
his  mind  while  each  day,  grimly  and  cynically,  buckling 
down  to  equip  himself  in  precisely  the  kinds  of  effort  and 
accomplishment  for  which  he  had,  in  his  freer  moments, 
soundly  damned  all  mankind.  Observable  also  is  the  "Faus- 
tian"  split  between  "serious  pursuits"  and  "dissipation."  In 
New  York,  the  discrepancy  regularly  took  the  form  of  pri- 
vately playing  the  stock  market  and  publicly  praying  for 
the  revolution.  Such  was  an  inevitable  incongruity,  since 
capitalism  fed  both  a  capitalist  morality  and  a  morality  be- 
yond capitalism — yet  I  believe  it  has  embittered  a  great 
many  people's  relations  with  one  another  in  recent  years. 

In  particular  it  has  aggravated  the  plight  of  poets  whose 
emotional,  nonmechanical  emphases  might,  even  without 
this  added  burden,  have  made  them  forlorn  enough  in  an 
age  of  intense  mechanistic  striving.  A  critic  might  conven- 
iently restrict  his  exhortations  to  the  "morality  beyond  capi- 
talism" if  he  chose,  but  the  poet  is  tapping  deeper  levels  of 
response.  If  he  arose  under  conditions  of  pronounced  moral 
duality,  it  is  not  likely  that  the  flow  of  his  imagery  can  be 
confined  to  whichever  of  the  two  moral  channels  he  happens 
to  consider  preferable.  This  dilemma  has  in  particular  ex- 
posed him  to  the  purist  attacks  of  all  rationalist  criticism 
(of  either  the  neo-Humanist  or  the  neo-Marxian  kind)  which 
would  programmatically  suppress  one  or  another  aspect  of 
this  duality  by  critical  fiat.  As  regards  certain  superficial 
manifestations  such  demands  can  possibly  be  met:  for  in- 
stance, if  a  poet  is  sufficiently  impressed  by  some  new  critical 
canon,  he  might  train  himself  to  avoid  the  subject  of  Greek 
Isles  and  select  the  subject  of  workingmen  instead.  Or  he 
249 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
can  depict  people  "with  or  without  will,"  depending  upon 
which  symbolic  externalities  the  tastes  of  the  season  may 
deem  more  acceptable.  But  in  the  end,  to  a  sharper  eye,  he 
will  necessarily  be  found  to  symbolize  the  patterns  of  ex- 
perience under  which  he  was  formed.  At  best,  like  the  Low- 
lands painters,  he  will  depict  Calvary  among  windmills.  Nor 
may  it  always  be  possible  to  say  when  the  poet  formed  by 
capitalist  contradictions  is  exemplifying  the  acquiescent  re- 
sponse and  when  the  corrective  one.  When  a  wild  animal 
grows  heavier  fur  with  the  approach  of  winter,  is  it  "resist- 
ing" the  demands  of  the  season  or  "acquiescing  to"  them? 

So  much  for  "capitalist  contradictions"  and  our  sugges- 
tion that  the  "complete"  response  to  a  contradictory  society 
should  be  contradictory.  Not  all  people  may  agree  that  en- 
vironments impress  themselves  upon  the  individual  mind 
so  accurately.  They  may  even  accuse  me  of  secretly  pro- 
pounding much  the  same  kind  of  "one  to  one"  correspond- 
ence between  social  stimulus  and  emotional  response  as  I 
had  attempted  to  discredit — the  only  difference  in  my  ver- 
sion being  that  I  offer  a  combined  "A  to  A  and  non-A  to 
non-A"  correspondence.  Accordingly,  I  propose  to  consider 
the  matter  from  another  angle,  suggesting  this  time  certain 
psychological  or  physiological  contradictions  so  indigenous 
to  man  that  they  might  be  expected  to  operate  even  in  a 
thoroughly  homogeneous  economic  or  social  order.  In  fact, 
the  contradictory  aspects  of  a  given  temporal  society  might 
even  conceivably  be  traced  back  to  this  source,  being  taken 
as  the  outgrowth  or  social  externalization  of  initial  biologic 
contradictions.  For  contradictions  are  not  confined  to  capi- 
talism. Yeast,  fermenting  in  the  fruit  mash,  eventually  gen- 
erates enough  alcohol  to  pickle  itself  in  death.  Or  nobles 
under  feudalism,  at  one  point  in  their  exploitation,  pre- 
250 


WAR,    RESPONSE,    CONTRADICTION 

sumably  had  to  do  so  contradictory  a  thing  as  restrain  them- 
selves from  taking  all  they  could,  in  order  that  their  serfs 
might  live  and  serve.  Some  contradictions  may  be  considered 
as  purely  subjective  phenomena,  depending  for  their  exist- 
ence upon  the  "point  of  view."  The  "synthetic"  act  of  walk- 
ing, for  instance,  might  well  be  described  by  an  eloquent 
right  foot  as  a  fluctuating  battle  against  a  contradictory 
left.  The  glands  of  internal  secretion  "cancel"  the  effects  of 
one  another,  but  from  the  standpoint  of  the  body  as  a  whole 
they  may  be  said  to  "collaborate."  Newton  talked  of  plane- 
tary motion  as  a  synthesis  of  centrifugal  and  centripetal 
forces,  but  he  himself  warned  that  the  synthesis  was  the  real 
event  and  the  two  contradictory  concepts  were  purely  mathe- 
matical conventions  used  in  plotting  it.  Das  Wahre  ist  das 
Game,  wrote  Hegel,  in  the  backwash  of  whose  thinking  we 
now  flounder.  By  the  "really  real"  he  meant  the  synthesis  of 
unreal,  contradictory  concepts.  But  we  need  not  endanger 
our  discussion  here  by  roaming  into  a  region  whereby  even 
so  contradictory  an  alignment  as  two  armies  opposed  on  a 
battlefield  must  seem  like  "cooperation"  in  the  eyes  of  God. 
Rather,  we  shall  confine  ourselves  to  an  attempted  distinc- 
tion between  essayistic  and  poetic  exhortation,  attempting 
to  show  that  the  second  necessarily  carries  us  towards  a  con- 
tradiction. 

Suppose  that  we  favored  the  triumph  of  the  workingman, 
and  wrote  a  work  embodying  this  attitude.  Essayistically 
(critically,  rationally)  we  should  proceed  as  follows:  We 
should  line  up  all  the  reasons  why  the  triumph  of  the  work- 
ingman seems  preferable,  and  we  would  presumably  seek 
to  refute  arguments  which  seemed  directly  or  indirectly 
to  prejudice  this  position.  But  the  poetic  (tragic,  ethical) 
method  of  recommendation  would  be  quite  different.  The 
2  m 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

poet  might  best  plead  for  his  Cause  by  picturing  people  who 
suffered  or  died  in  behalf  of  it.  The  essayistic  critic  would 
win  us  by  proving  the  serviceability  of  his  Cause — the  poet 
would  seem  as  spontaneously  to  stress  the  factor  of  disservice- 
ability.  For  how  better  recommend  a  Cause  by  the  strategies 
of  a  fiction  than  by  picturing  it  as  worthy  of  being  fought 
for?  And  how  better  picture  it  as  worthy  of  being  fought 
for  than  by  showing  people  who  are  willing  to  sacrifice  their 
safety,  lives,  and  happiness  in  its  behalf?  Such  facts  must 
lead  us  to  search  in  all  deeply  felt  tragedies  the  symbol  of 
a  birth,  and  not  of  the  dying  we  should  rationally  expect. 
I  never  so  greatly  felt  the  limitations  of  rationalist  criticism 
applied  to  poetry  as  when  I  once  heard  Michael  Gold  com- 
plain about  the  "defeatism"  in  plays  and  novels  written  by 
labor  sympathizers.  He  felt  that  there  should  be  pictures 
of  triumph,  of  glorification — perhaps  somewhat  as  Ziegfeld 
found  ways  to  glorify  the  American  Girl.  He  took  the  tragic 
ending  simply  at  its  face  value,  despite  the  obvious  fact  that 
the  tragedies  were  written  by  sincere  labor  sympathizers 
who  were  trying  to  commend  their  Cause  in  the  symbols 
of  art,  and  who  did  commend  their  Cause  precisely  as  hu- 
man Causes  have  ever  been  commended,  by  the  symbol  of 
the  Crucifixion. 

In  sum,  we  might  say  that  the  difference  between  es- 
sayistic and  poetic  exhortation  is  that  the  essayistic  can 
be  consistent  while  the  poetic  is  necessarily  contradictory. 
"Business  Christianity"  is  rational:  it  recommends  religion 
quite  simply  and  directly  on  the  grounds  that  Church  con- 
tacts help  you  get  ahead.  "Poetic  Christianity"  was  contra- 
dictory, building  its  entire  doctrine  of  salvation  about  the 
image  of  a  god  in  anguish.  So  also,  our  great  "tragedies  of 
individualism"  preceded  the  spread  of  individualist  ethics 
252 


WAR,    RESPONSE,    CONTRADICTION 

throughout  our  social  structure.  And  thus  characteristically, 
we  find  so  deeply  ethical  a  poet  as  Baudelaire  seeking  to 
celebrate  the  flesh,  not  in  the  direct  manner  of  our  musical 
revues,  but  by  recourse  to  the  rationally  repellent  symbols 
of  brutality,  sterility,  and  even  frigidity.  And  we  may  note 
the  presence  of  this  tragic  device,  in  a  more  domesticated 
form,  thus:  In  an  age  wherein  the  prestige  of  art  was  under- 
going gradual  eclipse,  Flaubert  tended  to  keep  his  vocation 
in  good  repute,  in  his  own  eyes  at  least,  by  forever  grum- 
bling about  the  annoyances  caused  him  by  the  probleme  du 
style. 

This  fundamental  distinction  between  the  "rational"  and 
"ethical"  modes  of  exhortation  or  incitement  seems  espe- 
cially apropos  to  the  MacLeish-Cowley  discussion.  For  it 
should  reveal  a  process  whereby  many  so-called  "attacks" 
on  war  might  come,  through  the  vagaries  of  the  sacrificial 
symbol,  to  serve  pro-military  ends.  For  such  attacks  generally 
stress  the  sufferings  of  war,  and  these  are  precisely  the  fore- 
most ethical  symbols  of  commendation.  Of  all  the  incon- 
sistencies in  which  the  human  mind  is  entangled,  this  con- 
fusion between  "goodness"  and  "sacrifice"  seems  the  most 
unavoidable.  Even  were  we  to  grant  with  the  utilitarians 
that  our  notions  of  the  "good"  arise  purely  and  simply  from 
our  notions  of  the  "useful"  or  "usable,"  the  fact  remains 
that  the  best  argument  in  favor  of  a  "good"  is  one's  will- 
ingness to  sacrifice  himself  for  it.  Thus,  by  the  ethical 
contradiction,  categories  as  logically  distinct  as  service  and 
disservice,  advantage  and  disaster,  become  fundamentally 
intertwined.  It  is  not  mere  "compensation"  that  brings  re- 
ligion and  failure  together.  By  the  "logic  of  the  emotions" 
the  religious  feeling  may  demand  failure  as  its  symbolic 
counterpart.  The  confusion  probably  goes  far  to  explain 

2^9, 


■D3 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

why  so  much  of  the  propaganda  for  the  good  of  society 
has  been  carried  on  antagonistically  instead  of  by  wheedling. 
The  rational  method  would  clearly  be  to  plead  for  one's 
Cause  by  the  most  unctuous  strategy  one  could  command 
— but  ethical  attachment  makes  one  tend  to  "testify"  by  in- 
vitation to  martyrdom. 

It  is  this  discrepancy,  I  believe,  which  lies  at  the  bottom 
of  Unamuno's  insistence  upon  the  "tragic  sense  of  life." 
He  is  forever  talking  of  plans  for  human  benefit,  while  seem- 
ing to  prize  nothing  so  greatly  as  the  thought  of  human 
suffering.  His  pages  at  times  are  a  kind  of  bullfight,  a  gory 
spirituality  concerned  with  the  need  to  incur  risk,  to  inflict 
and  suffer  misery,  coexisting  with  an  almost  morbidly  in- 
tense yearning  to  see  mankind  housed  in  a  very  pigeonry 
of  ease.  Thus,  in  his  Essays  and  Soliloquies,  he  speaks  of  a 
groaning,  heard  at  night  from  an  adjoining  room:  "It  pro- 
duced upon  me  the  illusion  of  coming  out  of  the  night  itself, 
as  if  it  were  the  silence  of  the  night  that  lamented;  and  there 
was  even  a  moment  when  I  dreamt  that  that  gentle  lament 
rose  to  the  surface  from  the  depths  of  my  own  soul."  Is  not 
this  the  "connoisseur"  speaking?  And  in  the  social  sphere, 
he  sees  in  Don  Quixote  the  tragic  symbol  under  the  guise 
of  the  ridiculous — for  it  is  ridicule  which  puts  us  most 
cruelly  apart  from  others,  hence  one  may  poetically  com- 
mend his  wares  by  the  symbol  of  ridicule.  Martyrdom  creates 
the  creed — though  out  of  the  creed  in  turn  may  come  a 
"rationally  compensatory"  codicil  to  the  effect  that  martyr- 
dom will  be  rewarded. 

The  instance  of  Unamuno,  whose  ethics  so  confusingly 
intermingles  ideals  of  peace  and  ideals  of  anguish,  may  serve 
to  help  us  consider  the  same  paradox  from  another  angle. 
For  it  is  undeniably  a  fact  that  even  so  brutal  a  performance 
254 


WAR,    RESPONSE,    CONTRADICTION 

as  modern  warfare  is  ethically  rooted.  The  neurologist  Sher- 
rington has  pointed  out  that,  whatever  "consciousness"  may 
be,  it  is  mainly  manifested  in  those  processes  involved  in  the 
seeking  and  capture  of  food;  whereas,  once  the  prize  is 
seized  and  swallowed,  the  organism's  "awareness"  is  of  a 
very  blunt  order.  Unless  the  digestion  is  impaired,  there  is 
slight  sensation  beyond  a  vague  state  of  wellbeing,  relaxa- 
tion, and  somnolence.  Now:  what  do  we  face  here  if  not 
a  fundamental  contradiction  in  human  incentives?  The  or- 
ganism has  at  its  command  a  keen  and  adventurous  equip- 
ment for  attaining  the  wherewithal  to  bring  about  a  state 
of  security,  peace,  relaxation,  comfort,  the  benign  sluggish- 
ness of  satiety  and  warmth — yet  this  very  equipment  for 
attaining  the  state  of  worldly  Nirvana  is  the  soul  of  turbu- 
lence and  struggle.  Here  is  a  "militaristic-pacifistic"  conflict 
at  the  basis  of  morals.  We  seek  peace  ever  by  the  question- 
able Rooseveltian  device  of  fighting  for  it.  In  so  far  as 
the  organism  attains  the  state  of  quiescence,  its  militaristic 
equipment  (that  is:  nervous  agility,  bodily  and  mental  mus- 
cle, imagination,  intellect,  senses,  expectation,  "curiosity," 
etc.)  is  threatened  with  decay.  And  in  so  far  as  this  milita- 
ristic equipment  is  kept  in  vigorous  operation,  it  makes  im- 
possible precisely  the  state  of  relaxation  which  it  is  designed 
to  secure. 

Many  of  the  disagreements  among  moralists  might  be 
traced  to  the  fact  that  they  have  selected  one  of  these  fac- 
tors, rather  than  the  other,  to  form  the  keystone  of  their 
ethical  schemas.  Perhaps  Nietzsche  was  the  modern  thinker 
who  plagued  himself  most  spectacularly  with  this  problem 
of  the  militaristic-pacifistic  conflict.  His  madness  may  ac- 
count for  the  inadequate  means  of  communication  which  he 
sometimes  adopted  in  his  attempt  to  symbolize  his  preoc- 
255 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
cupations  (as  with  the  excesses  of  the  "blonde  beast,"  for 
instance),  but  this  fact  should  not  lead  us  to  overlook  the 
genius  and  fertility  of  his  perception  and  the  wide  range  of 
human  activities  which  he  saw  implicated  in  this  confusion. 
He  knew  that  the  morality  of  combat  is  no  despicable  thing, 
that  morals  are  fists,  and  that  we  cannot  stop  at  noting  the 
savagery  of  some  slayer  or  the  greed  of  some  financial  mo- 
nopolist. There  is  the  same  fanaticism,  tenacity,  and  even 
pugnacity  underlying  the  efforts  of  the  scientist,  artist,  ex- 
plorer, rescuer,  inventor,  experimenter,  reformer.  Milita- 
ristic patterns  are  fundamental  to  our  "virtue,"  even  the 
word  itself  coming  from  a  word  which  the  Latins  applied 
to  their  warriors. 

One  could  consider  the  matter  from  other  points  of  view. 
In  particular,  for  instance,  I  believe  that  a  kind  of  "egoistic- 
altruistic  merger"  can  be  established  whereby  a  man  may  be 
found  honestly  "devoting"  himself  and  "sacrificing"  him- 
self to  activities  which  are  primarily  pursued  because  they 
net  him  large  profits.  How  many  business  men  actually  do 
warp  and  ruin  their  lives  in  the  getting  of  fortunes  which 
the  very  intensity  of  their  devotion  unfits  them  to  enjoy? 
And  when  an  ape  "protects"  his  women,  perhaps  even  los- 
ing his  life  in  the  effort,  is  that  act  "egoistic"  or  "altru- 
istic"? It  seems  to  be  something  of  both.  Who  lives  by  the 
sword  dies  by  the  sword?  In  terms  of  the  "egoistic-altruistic 
merger"  Ave  might  restate  it:  If  one  possesses  a  resource  or 
device  that  greatly  sustains  or  protects  him,  he  will  even 
risk  his  life  to  keep  it  or  improve  it. 

As  possible  confusions  to  complicate  human  response  we 
have,  then:   the  Bohemian-practical;   the  useful-sacrificial; 
the  militaristic-pacifistic;  the  egoistic-altruistic,  as  effected 
through  "devotion  to  work." 
256 


WAR,    RESPONSE,    CONTRADICTION 

There  is  also  a  wide  "neutral"  area  of  response  wherein 
such  confusions  do  not  seem  to  arise.  Generally,  if  one  wishes 
to  strike  a  match,  he  simply  takes  it  and  strikes  it  in  the 
most  direct,  convenient,  rational  way  his  experience  has 
taught  him.  (Even  in  this  field,  however,  I  must  recall  an 
occasional  "poetic"  or  "ethical"  match-striker,  particularly 
among  those  drawing-room  martyrs  to  form  who  willingly 
endanger  their  health  and  happiness  by  striking  matches 
with  their  thumbnails,  a  sacrificial  technique  which  some- 
times lodges  bits  of  fizzing  sulphur  between  the  nail  and 
the  quick.)  Science  is  the  attempt  to  extend  this  "neutral" 
area  to  as  many  procedures  and  relationships  as  possible. 
Ideally,  it  would  have  all  our  responses  to  stimuli  obey  the 
rational  pattern,  so  that  contradictions  would  arise  purely 
from  "error,"  from  "insufficient  knowledge."  Science  hopes 
to  impose  this  neutrality  of  approach  upon  a  kind  of  mental 
and  bodily  structure  which,  according  to  Veblen,  is  best 
fitted  for  a  state  of  "mild  savagery."  It  would  impose  mecha- 
nistic ideals  upon  a  non-mechanistic  organism. 


*57 


FREUD- 

AND  THE  ANALYSIS  OF  POETRY 


THE  reading  of  Freud  I  find  suggestive  almost  to  the  point 
of  bewilderment.  Accordingly,  what  I  should  like  most  to 
do  would  be  simply  to  take  representative  excerpts  from  his 
work,  copy  them  out,  and  write  glosses  upon  them.  Very 
often  these  glosses  would  be  straight  extensions  of  his  own 
thinking.  At  other  times  they  would  be  attempts  to  char- 
acterize his  strategy  of  presentation  with  reference  to  inter- 
pretative method  in  general.  And,  finally,  the  Freudian  per- 
spective was  developed  primarily  to  chart  a  psychiatric  field 
rather  than  an  aesthetic  one;  but  since  we  are  here  consider- 
ing the  analogous  features  of  these  two  fields  rather  than 
their  important  differences,  there  would  be  glosses  attempt- 
ing to  suggest  how  far  the  literary  critic  should  go  along  with 
Freud  and  what  extra-Freudian  material  he  would  have  to 
add.  Such  a  desire  to  write  an  article  on  Freud  in  the  mar- 
gins of  his  books,  must  for  practical  reasons  here  remain  a 
frustrated  desire.  An  article  such  as  this  must  condense  by 
generalization,  which  requires  me  to  slight  the  most  stimu- 
lating factor  of  all — the  detailed  articulacy  in  which  he 
embodies  his  extraordinary  frankness. 

Freud's  frankness  is  no  less  remarkable  by  reason  of  the 
fact  that  he  had  perfected  a  method  for  being  frank.  He 
could  say  humble,  even  humiliating,  things  about  himself 
and  us  because  he  had  changed  the  rules  somewhat  and  could 
258 


FREUD  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  POETRY 
make  capital  of  observations  that  others,  with  vested  interests 
of  a  different  sort,  would  feel  called  upon  to  suppress  by  dic- 
tatorial decree.  Or  we  might  say  that  what  for  him  could  fall 
within  the  benign  category  of  observation  could  for  them  fall 
only  within  its  malign  counterpart,  spying. 

Yet  though  honesty  is,  in  Freud,  methodologically  made 
easier,  it  is  by  no  means  honesty  made  easy.  And  Freud's  own 
accounts  of  his  own  dreams  show  how  poignantly  he  felt  at 
times  the  "disgrace"  of  his  occupation.  There  are  doubtless 
many  thinkers  whose  strange  device  might  be  ecclesia  super 
cloacam.  What  more  fitting  place  to  erect  one's  church  than 
above  a  sewer!  One  might  even  say  that  sewers  are  what 
churches  are  for.  But  usually  this  is  done  by  laying  all  the 
stress  upon  the  ecclesia  and  its  beauty.  So  that,  even  when 
the  man's  work  fails  to  be  completed  for  him  as  a  social  act, 
by  the  approval  of  his  group,  he  has  the  conviction  of  its  in- 
trinsic beauty  to  give  him  courage  and  solace. 

But  to  think  of  Freud,  during  the  formative  years  of  his 
doctrines,  confronting  something  like  repugnance  among 
his  colleagues,  and  even,  as  his  dreams  show,  in  his  own  eyes, 
is  to  think  of  such  heroism  as  Unamuno  found  in  Don 
Quixote;  and  if  Don  Quixote  risked  the  social  judgment  of 
ridicule,  he  still  had  the  consolatory  thought  that  his  im- 
aginings were  beautiful,  stressing  the  ecclesia  aspect,  whereas 
Freud's  theories  bound  him  to  a  more  drastic  self-ostracizing 
act — the  charting  of  the  relations  between  ecclesia  and  clo- 
aca that  forced  him  to  analyze  the  cloaca  itself.  Hence,  his 
work  was  with  the  confessional  as  cathartic,  as  purgative; 
this  haruspicy  required  an  inspection  of  the  entrails;  it 
was,  bluntly,  an  interpretative  sculpting  of  excrement,  with 
beauty  replaced  by  a  science  of  the  grotesque. 

Confronting  this,  Freud  does  nonetheless  advance  to  erect 

259 


f 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
a  structure  which,  if  it  lacks  beauty,  has  astounding  in- 
geniousness  and  fancy.  It  is  full  of  paradoxes,  of  leaps 
across  gaps,  of  vistas — much  more  so  than  the  work  of  many 
a  modern  poet  who  sought  for  nothing  else  but  these  and 
had  no  search  for  accuracy  to  motivate  his  work.  These 
qualities  alone  would  make  it  unlikely  that  readers  literarily 

X.  J  r  T<      C* 

inclined  could  fail  to  be  attracted,  even  while  repelled.  Nor 
can  one  miss  in  it  the  profound  charitableness  that  is  miss- 
ing in  so  many  modern  writers  who,  likewise  concerned  with 
the  cloaca,  become  efficiently  concerned  with  nothing  else, 
and  make  of  their  work  pure  indictment,  pure  oath,  pure 
striking-down,  pure  spitting-upon,  pure  kill.  True,  this  man, 
who  taught  us  so  much  about  father-rejection  and  who  ironi- 
cally became  himself  so  frequently  the  rejected  father  in  the 
works  of  his  schismatic  disciples,  does  finally  descend  to 
quarrelsomeness,  despite  himself,  when  recounting  the  his- 
tory of  the  psychoanalytic  movement.!  But,  over  the  great 
course  of  his  work,  it  is  the  matter  of  human  rescue  that 
he  is  concerned  with — not  the  matter  of  vengeance.  On  a 
few  occasions,  let  us  say,  he  is  surprised  into  vengefulness. 
But  the  very  essence  of  his  studies,  even  at  their  most  for- 
bidding moments  (in  fact,  precisely  at  those  moments),  is  its 
charitableness,  its  concern  with  salvationJTo  borrow  an  ex- 
cellent meaningful  pun  from  Trigant  Burrow,  this  salvation 
is  approached  not  in  terms  of  religious  hospitality  but  rather 
in  terms  of  secular  hospitalization.  Yet  it  is  the  spirit  of 
Freud;  it  is  what  Freud's  courage  is  for  A 

Perhaps,  therefore,  the  most  fitting  thing  for  a  writer  to 
do,  particularly  in  view  of  the  fact  that  Freud  is  now  among 
the  highly  honored  class — the  exiles  from  Nazi  Germany 
(how  accurate  those  fellows  are!  how  they  seem,  with  almost 
100  per  cent  efficiency,  to  have  weeded  out  their  greatest 
260 


FREUD    AND    ANALYSIS    OF    POETRY 
citizens!) — perhaps  the  most  fitting  thing  to  do  would  be 
simply  to  attempt  an  article  of  the  "homage  to  Freud"  sort 
and  call  it  a  day. 

However,  my  job  here  cannot  be  confined  to  that.  I  have 
been  commissioned  to  consider  the  bearing  of  Freud's  theo- 
ries upon  literary  criticism.  And  these  theories  were  not 
designed  primarily  for  literary  criticism  at  all  but  were 
rather  a  perspective  that,  developed  for  the  charting  of  a 
nonaesthetic  field,  was  able  (by  reason  of  its  scope)  to  mi- 
grate into  the  aesthetic  field.  The  margin  of  overlap  was 
this:  The  acts  of  the  neurotic  are  symbolic  acts.  Hence  in 
so  far  as  both  the  neurotic  act  and  the  poetic  act  share  this 
property  in  common,  they  may  share  a  terminological  chart 
in  common.  But  in  so  far  as  they  deviate,  terminology  like- 
wise must  deviate.  And  this  deviation  is  a  fact  that  literary 
criticism  must  explicitly  consider. 

As  for  the  glosses  on  the  interpretative  strategy  in  general, 
they  would  be  of  this  sort:  For  one  thing,  they  would  con- 
cern a  distinction  between  what  I  should  call  an  essentializ- 
ing  mode  of  interpretation  and  a  mode  that  stresses  propor- 
tion of  ingredients.  The  tendency  in  Freud  is  toward  the 
first  of  these.  That  is,  if  one  found  a  complex  of,  let  us  say, 
seven  ingredients  in  a  man's  motivation,  the  Freudian  tend- 
ency would  be  to  take  one  of  these  as  the  essence  of  the 
motivation  and  to  consider  the  other  six  as  sublimated  vari- 
ants. We  could  imagine,  for  instance,  manifestations  of 
sexual  impotence  accompanying  a  conflict  in  one's  relations 
with  his  familiars  and  one's  relations  at  the  office.  The  pro- 
portional strategy  would  involve  the  study  of  these  three 
as  a  cluster.  The  motivation  would  be  synonymous  with  the 
interrelationships  among  them.  But  the  essentializing  strat- 
261  l 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

egy  would,  in  Freud's  case,  place  the  emphasis  upon  the 
sexual  manifestation,  as  causal  ancestor  of  the  other  two. 

This  essentializing  strategy  is  linked  with  a  normal  ideal 
of  science:  to  "explain  the  complex  in  terms  of  the  simple." 
This  ideal  almost  vows  one  to  select  one  or  another  motive 
from  a  cluster  and  interpret  the  others  in  terms  of  it.  The 
naive  proponent  of  economic  determinism,  for  instance, 
would  select  the  quarrel  at  the  office  as  the  essential  motive, 
and  would  treat  the  quarrel  with  familiars  and  the  sexual 
impotence  as  mere  results  of  this.  Now,  I  don't  see  how  you 
can  possibly  explain  the  complex  in  terms  of  the  simple 
without  having  your  very  success  used  as  a  charge  against 
you.  When  you  get  through,  all  that  your  opponent  need 
say  is:  "But  you  have  explained  the  complex  in  terms  of 
the  simple — and  the  simple  is  precisely  what  the  complex 
is  not." 

Perhaps  the  faith  philosophers,  as  against  the  reason  phi- 
losophers, did  not  have  to  encounter  a  paradox  at  this  point. 
Not  that  they  avoided  paradoxes,  for  I  think  they  must  al- 
ways cheat  when  trying  to  explain  how  evil  can  exist  in  a 
world  created  by  an  all-powerful  and  wholly  good  Creator. 
But  at  least  they  did  not  have  to  confront  the  complexity- 
simplicity  difficulty,  since  their  theological  reductions  re- 
ferred to  a  ground  in  God,  who  was  simultaneously  the 
ultimately  complex  and  the  ultimately  simple.  Naturalistic 
strategies  lack  this  convenient  "out" — hence  their  explana- 
tions are  simplifications,  and  every  simplification  is  an  over- 
simplification.1 

It  is  possible  that  the  literary  critic,  taking  communica- 

i  The  essentializing  strategy  has  its  function  when  dealing  with  classes  of  items; 
the  proportional  one  is  for  dealing  with  an  item  in  its  uniqueness.  By  isolating  the 
matter  of  voluntarism,  we  put  Freud  in  a  line  or  class  with  Augustine.  By  isolating 
the  matter  of  his  concern  with  a  distinction  between  unconscious  and  conscious,  we 

262 


FREUD  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  POETRY 
tion  as  his  basic  category,  may  avoid  this  particular  paradox 
(communication  thereby  being  a  kind  of  attenuated  God 
term).  You  can  reduce  everything  to  communication — yet 
communication  is  extremely  complex.  But,  in  any  case, 
communication  is  by  no  means  the  basic  category  of  Freud. 
The  sexual  wish,  or  libido,  is  the  basic  category;  and  the 
complex  forms  of  communication  that  we  see  in  a  highly 
alembicated  philosophy  would  be  mere  sublimations  of  this. 
A  writer  deprived  of  Freud's  clinical  experience  would  be 
a  fool  to  question  the  value  of  his  category  as  a  way  of 
analyzing  the  motives  of  the  class  of  neurotics  Freud  en- 
countered. There  is  a  pronouncedly  individualistic  element 
in  any  technique  of  salvation  (my  toothache  being  alas!  my 
private  property),  and  even  those  beset  by  a  pandemic  of 
sin  or  microbes  will  enter  heaven  or  get  discharged  from  the 
hospital  one  by  one;  and  the  especially  elaborate  process  of 
diagnosis  involved  in  Freudian  analysis  even  to  this  day 
makes  it  more  available  to  those  suffering  from  the  ills  of 
preoccupation  and  leisure  than  to  those  suffering  from  the 
ills  of  occupation  and  unemployment  (with  people  generally 
tending  to  be  only  as  mentally  sick  as  they  can  afford  to  be). 
This  state  of  affairs  makes  it  all  the  more  likely  that  the 
typical  psychoanalytic  patient  would  have  primarily  private 


may  put  him  in  a  line  with  Leibniz's  distinction  between  perception  and  apper- 
ception. Or  we  could  link  him  with  the  Spinozistic  conatus  and  the  Schopenhauer- 
ian  will.  Or,  as  a  rationalist,  he  falls  into  the  bin  with  Aquinas  (who  is  himself 
most  conveniently  isolated  as  a  rationalist  if  you  employ  the  essentializing  as 
against  the  proportional  strategy,  stressing  what  he  added  rather  than  what  he 
retained).  Many  arguments  seem  to  hinge  about  the  fact  that  there  is  an  unverbal- 
ized  disagreement  as  to  the  choice  between  these  strategies.  The  same  man,  for 
instance,  who  might  employ  the  essentializing  strategy  in  proclaiming  Aquinas  as 
a  rationalist,  taking  as  the  significant  factor  in  Aquinas'  philosophy  his  additions 
to  rationalism  rather  than  considering  this  as  an  ingredient  in  a  faith  philosophy, 
might  object  to  the  bracketing  of  Aquinas  and  Freud  (here  shifting  to  the  pro- 
portional strategy,  as  he  pointed  out  the  totally  different  materials  with  which 
Aquinas  surrounded  his  rational  principle). 

263 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
sexual  motivations  behind  his  difficulties.  (Did  not  Henry 
James  say  that  sex  is  something  about  which  we  think  a 
great  deal  when  we  are  not  thinking  about  anything  else?)  2 
Furthermore,  I  believe  that  studies  of  artistic  imagery,  out- 
side the  strict  pale  of  psychoanalytic  emphasis,  will  bear  out 
Freud's  brilliant  speculations  as  to  the  sexual  puns,  the 
double-entendres,  lurking  behind  the  most  unlikely  facades. 
If  a  man  acquires  a  method  of  thinking  about  everything 
else,  for  instance,  during  the  sexual  deprivations  and  rigors 
of  adolescence,  this  cure  may  well  take  on  the  qualities  of 
the  disease;  and  in  so  far  as  he  continues  with  this  same 
method  in  adult  years,  though  his  life  has  since  become 
sexually  less  exacting,  such  modes  as  incipient  homosexu- 
ality or  masturbation  may  very  well  be  informatively  inter- 
woven in  the  strands  of  his  thought  and  be  discoverable  by 
inspection  of  the  underlying  imagery  or  patterns  in  this 
thought. 

Indeed,  there  are  only  a  few  fundamental  bodily  idioms 
— and  why  should  it  not  be  likely  that  an  attitude,  no  matter 
how  complex  its  ideational  expression,  could  only  be  com- 
pleted by  a  channelization  within  its  corresponding  gestures? 
That  is,  the  details  of  experience  behind  A's  dejection  may 
be  vastly  different  from  the  details  of  experience  behind  B's 
dejection,  yet  both  A  and  B  may  fall  into  the  same  bodily 
posture  in  expressing  their  dejection.  And  in  an  era  like 
ours,  coming  at  the  end  of  a  long  individualistic  emphasis, 
where  we  frequently  find  expressed  an  attitude  of  complete 

2  We  may  distinguish  between  a  public  and  universal  motive.  In  so  far  as  one 
acts  in  a  certain  way  because  of  his  connection  with  a  business  or  party,  he  would 
act  from  a  public  motive.  His  need  of  response  to  a  new  glandular  stimulation  at 
adolescence,  on  the  other  hand,  would  arise  regardless  of  social  values,  and  in  that 
sense  would  be  at  once  private  and  universal.  The  particular  forms  in  which  he 
expressed  this  need  would,  of  course,  be  channelized  in  accordance  with  public  or 
social  factors. 

2G4 


FREUD  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  POETRY 
independence,  of  total,  uncompromising  self-reliance,  this 
expression  would  not  reach  its  fulfillment  in  choreography 
except  in  the  act  of  "practical  narcissism"  (that  is,  the  only 
wholly  independent  person  would  be  the  one  who  practiced 
self -abuse  and  really  meant  it). 

But  it  may  be  noticed  that  we  have  here  tended  to  con- 
sider mind-body  relations  from  an  interactive  point  of  view 
rather  than  a  materialistic  one  (which  would  take  the  body 
as  the  essence  of  the  act  and  the  mentation  as  the  sublima- 
tion). 

Freud  himself,  interestingly  enough,  was  originally  nearer 
to  this  view  (necessary,  as  I  hope  to  show  later,  for  specifi- 
cally literary  purposes)  than  he  later  became.  Freud  explic- 
itly resisted  the  study  of  motivation  by  way  of  symbols.  He 
distinguished  his  own  mode  of  analysis  from  the  symbolic 
by  laying  the  stress  upon  free  association.  That  is,  he  would 
begin  the  analysis  of  a  neurosis  without  any  preconceived 
notion  as  to  the  absolute  meaning  of  any  image  that  the 
patient  might  reveal  in  the  account  of  a  dream.  His  pro- 
cedure involved  the  breaking-down  of  the  dream  into  a  set 
of  fragments,  with  the  analyst  then  inducing  the  patient  to 
improvise  associations  on  each  of  these  fragments  in  turn. 
And  afterward,  by  charting  recurrent  themes,  he  would  ar- 
rive at  the  crux  of  the  patient's  conflict. 

Others  (particularly  Stekel),  however,  proposed  a  great 
short  cut  here.  They  offered  an  absolute  content  for  various 
items  of  imagery.  For  instance,  in  Stekel's  dictionary  of  sym- 
bols, which  has  the  absoluteness  of  an  old-fashioned  dream- 
book,  the  right-hand  path  equals  the  road  to  righteousness, 
the  left-hand  path  equals  the  road  to  crime,  in  anybody's 
dreams  (in  Lenin's  presumably,  as  well  as  the  Pope's).  Sisters 
265 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
are  breasts  and  brothers  are  buttocks.  "The  luggage  of  a 
traveller  is  the  burden  of  sin  by  which  one  is  oppressed," 
etc.  Freud  criticizes  these  on  the  basis  of  his  own  clinical 
experiences — and  whereas  he  had  reservations  against  spe- 
cific equations,  and  rightly  treats  the  method  as  antithetical 
to  his  own  contribution,  he  decides  that  a  high  percentage  of 
Stekel's  purely  intuitive  hunches  were  corroborated.  And 
after  warning  that  such  a  gift  as  Stekel's  is  often  evidence 
of  paranoia,  he  decides  that  normal  persons  may  also  oc- 
casionally be  capable  of  it. 

Its  lure  as  efficiency  is  understandable.  And,  indeed,  if 
we  revert  to  the  matter  of  luggage,  for  instance,  does  it  not 
immediately  give  us  insight  into  a  remark  of  Andre  Gide, 
who  is  a  specialist  in  the  portrayal  of  scrupulous  criminals, 
who  has  developed  a  stylistic  trick  for  calling  to  seduction 
in  the  accents  of  evangelism,  and  who  advises  that  one 
should  learn  to  "travel  light"? 

But  the  trouble  with  short  cuts  is  that  they  deny  us  a 
chance  to  take  longer  routes.  With  them,  the  essentializing 
strategy  takes  a  momentous  step  forward.  You  have  next 
but  to  essentialize  your  short  cuts  in  turn  (a  short  cut  atop 
a  short  cut),  and  you  get  the  sexual  emphasis  of  Freud,  the 
all-embracing  ego  compensation  of  Adler,  or  Rank's  master- 
emphasis  upon  the  birth  trauma,  etc. 

Freud  himself  fluctuates  in  his  search  for  essence.  At  some 
places  you  find  him  proclaiming  the  all-importance  of  the 
sexual,  at  other  places  you  find  him  indignantly  denying 
that  his  psychology  is  a  pansexual  one  at  all,  and  at  still 
other  places  you  get  something  halfway  between  the  two, 
via  the  concept  of  the  libido,  which  embraces  a  spectrum 
from  phallus  to  philanthropy. 

The  important  matter  for  our  purposes  is  to  suggest  that 
266 


FREUD    AND    ANALYSIS    OF    POETRY 
the  examination  of  a  poetic  work's  internal  organization 
would  bring  us  nearer  to  a  variant  of  the  typically  Freudian 
free-association  method  than  to  the  purely  symbolic  method 
toward  which  he  subsequently  gravitated.3 

The  critic  should  adopt  a  variant  of  the  free-association 
method.  One  obviously  cannot  invite  an  author,  especially 
a  dead  author,  to  oblige  him  by  telling  what  the  author 
thinks  of  when  the  critic  isolates  some  detail  or  other  for 
improvisation.  But  what  he  can  do  is  to  note  the  context  of 
imagery  and  ideas  in  which  an  image  takes  its  place.  He  can  "  *-n 
also  note,  by  such  analysis,  the  kinds  of  evaluations  sur- 
rounding the  image  of  a  crossing;  for  instance,  is  it  an 
escape  from  or  a  return  to  an  evil  or  a  good,  etc.?  Until 
finally,  by  noting  the  ways  in  which  this  crossing  behaves, 
what  subsidiary  imagery  accompanies  it,  what  kind  of  event 
it  grows  out  of,  what  kind  of  event  grows  out  of  it,  what 
altered  rhythmic  and  tonal  effects  characterize  it,  etc.,  one 
grasps  its  significance  as  motivation.  And  there  is  no  essential 
motive  offered  here.  The  motive  of  the  work  is  equated  with  \ 
the  structure  of  interrelationships  within  the  work  itself.       ' 

"But  there  is  more  to  a  work  of  art  than  that."  I  hear  this 
objection  being  raised.  And  I  agree  with  it.  And  I  wonder 
whether  we  could  properly  consider  the  matter  in  this  wise: 

For  convenience  using  the  word  "poem"  to  cover  any 
complete  made  artistic  product,  let  us  divide  this  artifact 

3  Perhaps,  to  avoid  confusion,  I  should  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  symbolic 
in  this  context  is  being  used  differently  by  me  from  its  use  in  the  expression  "sym- 
bolic action."  If  a  man  crosses  a  street,  it  is  a  practical  act.  If  he  writes  a  book  about 
crossings — crossing  streets,  bridges,  oceans,  etc. — that  is  a  symbolic  act.  Symbolic, 
as  used  in  the  restricted  sense  (in  contrast  with  free  association),  would  refer  to  the 
imputation  of  an  absolute  meaning  to  a  crossing,  a  meaning  that  I  might  impute 
even  before  reading  the  book  in  question.  Against  this,  I  should  maintain:  One  "^ 
can  never  know  what  a  crossing  means,  in  a  specific  book,  until  he  has  studied  its  1 
tie-up  with  other  imagery  in  that  particular  book. 

267 


Cr»VM*-^ 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
(the  invention,  creation,  formation,  poetic  construct)  in  ac- 
cordance with  three  modes  of  analysis:  dream,  prayer,  chart. 

The  psychoanalysis  of  Freud  and  of  the  schools  stemming 
from  Freud  has  brought  forward  an  astoundingly  fertile 
range  of  observations  that  give  us  insight  into  the  poem  as 
dream.  There  is  opened  up  before  us  a  sometimes  almost 
terrifying  glimpse  into  the  ways  in  which  we  may,  while 
overtly  doing  one  thing,  be  covertly  doing  another.  Yet, 
there  is  nothing  mystical  or  even  unusual  about  this.  I  may, 
for  instance,  consciously  place  my  elbow  upon  the  table. 
Yet  at  the  same  time  I  am  clearly  unconscious  of  the  exact 
distance  between  my  elbow  and  my  nose.  Or,  if  that  analogy 
seems  like  cheating,  let  us  try  another:  I  may  be  unconscious 
of  the  way  in  which  a  painter-friend,  observant  of  my  pos- 
tures, would  find  the  particular  position  of  my  arm  char- 
acteristic of  me. 

Or  let  us  similarly  try  to  take  the  terror  out  of  infantile 
regression.  In  so  far  as  I  speak  the  same  language  that  I 
learned  as  a  child,  every  time  I  speak  there  is,  within  my 
speech,  an  ingredient  of  regression  to  the  infantile  level. 
Regression,  we  might  say,  is  a  function  of  progression. 
Where  the  progression  has  been  a  development  by  evolu- 
tion or  continuity  of  growth  (as  were  one  to  have  learned 
to  speak  and  think  in  English  as  a  child,  and  still  spoke 
and  thought  in  English)  rather  than  by  revolution  or  dis- 
continuity of  growth  (as  were  one  to  have  learned  German 
in  childhood,  to  have  moved  elsewhere  at  an  early  age,  and 
since  become  so  at  home  in  English  that  he  could  not  even 
understand  a  mature  conversation  in  the  language  of  his 
childhood),  the  archaic  and  the  now  would  be  identical. 
You  could  say,  indifferently,  either  that  the  speech  is  regres- 
sion or  that  it  is  not  regression.  But  were  the  man  who  had 
q68 


FREUD  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  POETRY 
forgot  the  language  of  his  childhood,  to  begin  speaking  noth- 
ing but  this  early  language  (under  a  sudden  agitation  or  as 
the  result  of  some  steady  pressure),  we  should  have  the  kind 
of  regression  that  goes  formally  by  this  name  in  psycho- 
analytic nomenclature. 

The  ideal  growth,  I  suppose — the  growth  without  ele- 
ments of  alienation,  discontinuity,  homelessness — is  that 
wherein  regression  is  natural.  We  might  sloganize  it  as  "the 
adult  a  child  matured."  Growth  has  here  been  simply  a 
successive  adding  of  cells — the  growth  of  the  chambered 
nautilus.  But  there  is  also  the  growth  of  the  adult  who, 
"when  he  became  a  man,  put  away  childish  things."  This 
is  the  growth  of  the  crab,  that  grows  by  abandoning  one 
room  and  taking  on  another.  It  produces  moments  of  crisis. 
It  makes  for  philosophies  of  emancipation  and  enlighten- 
ment, where  one  gets  a  jolt  and  is  "awakened  from  the  sleep 
of  dogma"  (and  alas!  in  leaving  his  profound  "Asiatic  slum- 
ber," he  risks  getting  in  exchange  more  than  mere  wakeful- 
ness, more  than  the  eternal  vigilance  that  is  the  price  of 
liberty — he  may  get  wakefulness  plus,  i.  e.,  insomnia). 

There  are,  in  short,  critical  points  (or,  in  the  Hegel-Marx 
vocabulary,  changes  of  quantity  leading  to  changes  of  qual- 
ity) where  the  process  of  growth  or  change  converts  a  previ- 
ous circle  of  protection  into  a  circle  of  confinement.  The 
first  such  revolution  may  well  be,  for  the  human  individual, 
a  purely  biological  one — the  change  at  birth  when  the  fetus, 
heretofore  enjoying  a  larval  existence  in  the  womb,  being 
fed  on  manna  from  the  placenta,  so  outgrows  this  circle  of 
protection  that  the  benign  protection  becomes  a  malign 
circle  of  confinement,  whereat  it  must  burst  forth  into  a 
different  kind  of  world — a  world  of  locomotion,  aggression, 
competition,  hunt.  The  mother,  it  is  true,  may  have  already 
269 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
been  living  in  such  a  world;  but  the  fetus  was  in  a  world 
within  this  world — in  a  monastery — a  world  such  as  is  lived 
in  by  "coupon  clippers,"  who  get  their  dividends  as  the 
result  of  sharp  economic  combat  but  who  may,  so  long  as 
the  payments  are  regular,  devote  themselves  to  thoughts  and 
diseases  far  "above"  these  harsh  material  operations. 

In  the  private  life  of  the  individual  there  may  be  many 
subsequent  jolts  of  a  less  purely  biological  nature,  as  with 
the  death  of  some  one  person  who  had  become  pivotal 
to  this  individual's  mental  economy.  But  whatever  these 
unique  variants  may  be,  there  is  again  a  universal  variant 
at  adolescence,  when  radical  changes  in  the  glandular  struc- 
ture of  the  body  make  this  body  a  correspondingly  al- 
tered environment  for  the  mind,  requiring  a  corresponding 
change  in  our  perspective,  our  structure  of  interpretations, 
meanings,  values,  purposes,  and  inhibitions,  if  we  are  to 
take  it  properly  into  account. 

In  the  informative  period  of  childhood  our  experiences 
are  strongly  personalized.  Our  attitudes  take  shape  with  re- 
spect to  distinct  people  who  have  roles,  even  animals  and 
objects  being  vessels  of  character.  Increasingly,  however,  we 
begin  to  glimpse  a  world  of  abstract  relationships,  of  func- 
tions understood  solely  through  the  medium  of  symbols  in 
books.  Even  such  real  things  as  Tibet  and  Eskimos  and  Na- 
poleon are  for  us,  who  have  not  been  to  Tibet,  or  lived  with 
Eskimos,  or  fought  under  Napoleon,  but  a  structure  of  signs. 
In  a  sense,  it  could  be  said  that  we  learn  these  signs  flat. 
We  must  start  from  scratch.  There  is  no  tradition  in  them; 
they  are  pure  present.  For  though  they  have  been  handed 
down  by  tradition,  we  can  read  meaning  into  them  only  in 
so  far  as  we  can  project  or  extend  them  out  of  our  own 
experience.  We  may,  through  being  burned  a  little,  under- 
270 


FREUD  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  POETRY 
stand  the  signs  for  being  burned  a  lot — it  is  in  this  sense 
that  the  coaching  of  interpretation  could  be  called  tradi- 
tional. But  we  cannot  understand  the  signs  for  being  burned 
a  lot  until  we  have  in  our  own  flat  experience,  here  and  now, 
been  burned  a  little. 

Out  of  what  can  these  extensions  possibly  be  drawn?  Only 
out  of  the  informative  years  of  childhood.  Psychoanalysis 
talks  of  purposive  forgetting.  Yet  purposive  forgetting  is  the 
only  way  of  remembering.  One  learns  the  meaning  of 
''table,"  "book,"  "father,"  "mother,"  "mustn't,"  by  forget- 
ting the  contexts  in  which  these  words  were  used.  The 
Darwinian  ancestry  (locating  the  individual  in  his  feudal 
line  of  descent  from  the  ape)  is  matched  in  Freud  by  a  still 
more  striking  causal  ancestry  that  we  might  sloganize  as  "the 
child  is  father  to  the  man."  4 

As  we  grow  up  new  meanings  must  either  be  engrafted 
upon  old  meanings  (being  to  that  extent  double-entendres) 
or  they  must  be  new  starts  (hence,  involving  problems  of 
dissociation). 

It  is  in  the  study  of  the  poem  as  dream  that  we  find  re- 

4  Maybe  the  kind  of  forgetting  that  is  revealed  by  psychoanalysis  could,  within 
this  frame,  be  better  characterized  as  an  incomplete  forgetting.  That  is,  whereas 
table,  for  instance,  acquires  an  absolute  and  emotionally  neutral  meaning,  as  a 
name  merely  for  a  class  of  objects,  by  a  merging  of  all  the  contexts  involving  the 
presence  of  a  table,  a  table  becomes  symbolic,  or  a  double -entendre ,  or  more  than 
table,  when  some  particular  informative  context  is  more  important  than  the  oth- 
ers. That  is,  when  table,  as  used  by  the  poet,  has  overtones  of,  let  us  say,  one  table 
at  which  his  mother  worked  when  he  was  a  child.  In  this  way  the  table,  its  food, 
and  the  cloth  may  become  surrogates  for  the  mother,  her  breasts,  and  her  apron. 
And  incest  awe  may  become  merged  with  "mustn't  touch"  injunctions,  stemming 
from  attempts  to  keep  the  child  from  meddling  with  the  objects  on  the  table.  In 
a  dream  play  by  Edmund  Wilson,  The  Crime  in  the  Whistler  Room,  there  are 
two  worlds  of  plot,  with  the  characters  belonging  in  the  one  world  looking  upon 
those  in  the  other  as  dead,  and  the  hero  of  this  living  world  taking  a  dream  shape 
as  werewolf.  The  worlds  switch  back  and  forth,  depending  upon  the  presence  or 
removal  of  a  gate-leg  table.  In  this  instance  I  think  we  should  not  be  far  wrong  in 
attributing  some  such  content  as  the  above  to  the  table  when  considering  it  as 
a  fulcrum  upon  which  the  structure  of  the  plot  is  swung. 

271 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

vealed  the  ways  in  which  the  poetic  organization  takes  shape 
under  these  necessities.  Revise  Freud's  terms,  if  you  will. 
But  nothing  is  done  by  simply  trying  to  refute  them  or  to 
tie  them  into  knots.  One  may  complain  at  this  procedure, 
for  instance:  Freud  characterizes  the  dream  as  the  fulfill- 
ment of  a  wish;  an  opponent  shows  him  a  dream  of  frustra- 
tion, and  he  answers:  "But  the  dreamer  wishes  to  be  frus- 
trated." You  may  demur  at  that,  pointing  out  that  Freud 
has  developed  a  "heads  I  win,  tails  you  lose"  mode  of  dis- 
course here.  But  I  maintain  that,  in  doing  so,  you  have  con- 
tributed nothing.  For  there  are  people  whose  values  are 
askew,  for  whom  frustration  itself  is  a  kind  of  grotesque 
ambition.  If  you  would,  accordingly,  propose  to  chart  this 
field  by  offering  better  terms,  by  all  means  do  so.  But  better 
terms  are  the  only  kind  of  refutation  here  that  is  worth  the 
trouble.  Similarly,  one  may  be  unhappy  with  the  concept 
of  ambivalence,  which  allows  pretty  much  of  an  open  sea- 
son on  explanations  (though  the  specific  filling-out  may  pro- 
vide a  better  case  for  the  explanation  than  appears  in  this 
key  term  itself).  But,  again,  nothing  but  an  alternative  ex- 
planation is  worth  the  effort  of  discussion  here(  Freud's 
terminology  is  a  dictionary,  a  lexicon  for  charting  a  vastly 
complex  and  hitherto  largely  uncharted  field.  You  can't  re- 
fute a  dictionary.  The  only  profitable  answer  to  a  dictionary 
is  another  one.~J 

A  profitable  answer  to  Freud's  treatment  of  the  Oedipus 
complex,  for  instance,  was  Malinowski's  study  of  its  variants 
in  a  matriarchal  society.5  Here  we  get  at  once  a  corrobora- 

s  It  is  wrong,  I  think,  to  consider  Freud's  general  picture  as  that  of  an  individual 
psychology.  Adler's  start  from  the  concept  of  ego  compensation  fits  this  description 
par  excellence.  But  Freud's  is  a  family  psychology.  He  has  offered  a  critique  of  the 
family,  though  it  is  the  family  ot  a  neo-patriarch.  It  is  interesting  to  watch  Freud, 
in  his  Group  Psychology  and  the  Analysis  of  the  Ego,  frankly  shifting  between  the 
primacy  of  group  psychology  and  the  primacy  of  individual  psychology,  changing 

272 


FREUD  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  POETRY 
tion  and  a  refutation  of  the  Freudian  doctrine.  It  is  cor- 
roborated in  that  the  same  general  patterns  of  enmity  are 
revealed;  it  is  refuted  in  that  these  patterns  are  shown  not 
to  be  innate  but  to  take  shape  with  relation  to  the  difference 
in  family  structure  itself,  with  corresponding  difference  in 
roles. 

Freud's  overemphasis  upon  the  patriarchal  pattern  (an  as- 
sumption of  its  absoluteness  that  is  responsible  for  the 
Freudian  tendency  to  underrate  greatly  the  economic  fac- 
tors influencing  the  relationships  of  persons  or  roles)  is  a 
prejudicial  factor  that  must  be  discounted,  in  Freud,  even 
when  treating  the  poem  as  dream.  Though  totemistic  re- 
ligion, for  instance,  flourished  with  matriarchal  patterns, 
Freud  treats  even  this  in  patriarchal  terms.  And  I  submit 
that  this  emphasis  will  conceal  from  us,  to  a  large  degree, 
what  is  going  on  in  art  (still  confining  ourselves  to  the 
dream  level — the  level  at  which  Freudian  coordinates  come 
closest  to  the  charting  of  the  logic  of  poetic  structure). 

In  the  literature  of  transitional  eras,  for  instance,  we  find 
an  especial  profusion  of  rebirth  rituals,  where  the  poet  is 
making  the  symbolic  passes  that  will  endow  him  with  a  new 
identity.  Now,  imagine  him  trying  to  do  a  very  thorough 
job  of  this  reidentification.  To  be  completely  reborn,  he 
would  have  to  change  his  very  lineage  itself.  He  would  have 
to  revise  not  only  his  present  but  also  his  past.  (Ancestry 
and  cause  are  forever  becoming  intermingled — the  thing  is 
that  from  which  it  came — cause  is  Ur-sache,  etc.)  And  could 


his  mind  as  he  debates  with  himself  in  public  and  leaves  in  his  pages  the  record 
of  his  fluctuations,  frankly  stated  as  such.  Finally,  he  compromises  by  leaving 
both,  drawing  individual  psychology  from  the  role  of  the  monopolistic  father,  and 
group  psychology  from  the  roles  of  the  sons,  deprived  of  sexual  gratification  by  the 
monopolistic  father,  and  banded  together  for  their  mutual  benefit.  But  note  that 
the  whole  picture  is  that  of  a  family  albeit  of  a  family  in  which  the  woman  is  a 
mere  passive  object  of  male  wealth. 

2?3 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

a  personalized  past  be  properly  confined  to  a  descent 
through  the  father,  when  it  is  the  mater  that  is  semper  certa? 
Totemism,  when  not  interpreted  with  Freud's  patriarchal 
bias,  may  possibly  provide  us  with  the  necessary  cue  here. 
Totemism,  as  Freud  himself  reminds  us,  was  a  magical  de- 
vice whereby  the  members  of  a  group  were  identified  with 
one  another  by  the  sharing  of  the  same  substance  (a  process 
often  completed  by  the  ritualistic  eating  of  this  substance, 
though  it  might,  for  this  very  reason,  be  prohibited  on  less 
festive  occasions).  And  it  is  to  the  mother  that  the  basic  in- 
formative experiences  of  eating  are  related. 

So,  all  told,  even  in  strongly  patriarchal  societies  (and 
much  more  so  in  a  society  like  ours,  where  theories  of  sexual 
equality,  with  a  corresponding  confusion  in  sexual  differ- 
entiation along  occupational  lines,  have  radically  broken 
the  symmetry  of  pure  patriarchalism),  would  there  not  be  a 
tendency  for  rebirth  rituals  to  be  completed  by  symboliza- 
tions  of  matricide  and  without  derivation  from  competitive, 
monopolistic  ingredients  at  all?  6 

To  consider  explicitly  a  bit  of  political  dreaming,  is  not 

6  Or  you  might  put  it  this  way:  Rebirth  would  require  a  killing  of  the  old  self. 
Such  symbolic  suicide,  to  be  complete,  would  require  a  snapping  of  the  total 
ancestral  line  (as  being  an  integral  aspect  of  one's  identity).  Hence,  a  tendency  for 
the  emancipatory  crime  to  become  sexually  ambivalent.  Freud's  patriarchal  em- 
phasis leads  to  an  overstress  upon  father-rejection  as  a  basic  cause  rather  than  as  a 
by-product  of  conversion  (the  Kierkegaard  earthquake,  that  was  accompanied  by 
a  changed  attitude  toward  his  father).  Suicide,  to  be  thorough,  would  have  to  go 
farther,  and  the  phenomena  of  identity  revealed  in  totemism  might  require  the 
introduction  of  matricidal  ingredients  also.  Freud  himself,  toward  the  end  of 
Totem  and  Taboo,  gives  us  an  opening  wedge  by  stating  frankly,  "In  this  evolu- 
tion I  am  at  a  loss  to  indicate  the  place  of  the  great  maternal  deities  who  perhaps 
everywhere  preceded  the  paternal  deities.  .  .  ."  This  same  patriarchal  emphasis 
also  reinforces  the  Freudian  tendency  to  treat  social  love  as  a  mere  sublimation  of 
balked  male  sexual  appetite,  whereas  a  more  matriarchal  concern,  with  the  Ma- 
donna and  Child  relationship,  would  suggest  a  place  for  affection  as  a  primary 
biological  motivation.  Not  even  a  naturalistic  account  of  motivation  would  neces- 
sarily recpiire  reinforcement  from  the  debunking  strategy  (in  accordance  with 
which  the  real  motives  would  be  incipient  perversions,  and  social  motives  as  we 
know  them  would  be  but  their  appearances,  or  censored  disguise). 

274 


FREUD  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  POETRY 
Hitler's  doctrine  of  Aryanism  something  analogous  to  the 
adoption  of  a  new  totemic  line?  Has  he  not  voted  himself  a 
new  identity  and,  in  keeping  withQi  bastardized  variant  of 
the  strategy  of  materialistic  science]  rounded  this  out  by  lay- 
ing claim  to  a  distinct  blood  stream?  What  the  Pope  is  say- 
ing, benignly,  in  proclaiming  the  Hebrew  prophets  as  the 
spiritual  ancestors  of  Catholicism,  Hitler  is  saying  malignly 
in  proclaiming  for  himself  a  lineage  totally  distinct. 

Freud,  working  within  the  patriarchal  perspective,  has 
explained  how  such  thinking  becomes  tied  up  with  persecu- 
tion. The  paranoid,  he  says,  assigns  his  imagined  persecutor 
the  role  of  rejected  father.  This  persecutor  is  all-powerful, 
as  the  father  seems  to  the  child.  He  is  responsible  for  every 
imagined  machination  (as  the  Jews,  in  Hitler's  scheme,  be- 
come the  universal  devil-function,  the  leading  brains  be- 
hind every  "plot").  Advancing  from  this  brilliant  insight, 
it  is  not  hard  to  understand  why,  once  Hitler's  fantasies  are 
implemented  by  the  vast  resources  of  a  nation,  the  "perse- 
cutor" becomes  the  persecuted. 

The  point  I  am  trying  to  bring  out  is  that  this  assigning 
of  a  new  lineage  to  one's  self  (as  would  be  necessary,  in  assign- 
ing one's  self  a  new  identity)  could  not  be  complete  were  it 
confined  to  symbolic  patricide.  There  must  also  be  ingredi- 
ents of  symbolic  matricide  intermingled  here  (with  the  phe- 
nomena of  totemism  giving  cause  to  believe  that  the  ritualis- 
tic slaying  of  the  maternal  relationship  may  draw  upon  an 
even  deeper  level  than  the  ritualistic  slaying  of  the  paternal 
relationship).  Lineage  itself  is  charted  after  the  metaphor 
of  the  family  tree,  which  is,  to  be  sure,  patriarchalized  in 
Western  heraldry,  though  we  get  a  different  quality  in  the 
tree  of  life.  MacLeish,  in  his  period  of  aesthetic  negativism, 
likens  the  sound  of  good  verse  to  the  ring  of  the  ax  in  the 

275 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
tree,  and  if  I  may  mention  an  early  story  of  my  own,  In 
Quest  of  Olympus,  a  rebirth  fantasy,  it  begins  by  the  felling 
of  a  tree,  followed  by  the  quick  change  from  child  to  adult, 
or,  within  the  conventions  of  the  fiction,  the  change  from 
tiny  "Treep"  to  gigantic  "Arjk";  and  though,  for  a  long 
time,  under  the  influence  of  the  Freudian  patriarchal  em- 
phasis, I  tended  to  consider  such  trees  as  fathers,  I  later  felt 
compelled  to  make  them  ambiguously  parents.  The  sym- 
bolic structure  of  Peter  Blume's  painting,  "The  Eternal 
City,"  almost  forces  me  to  assign  the  tree,  in  that  instance, 
to  a  purely  maternal  category,  since  the  rejected  father  is 
pictured  in  the  repellent  phallus-like  figure  of  Mussolini, 
leaving  only  the  feminine  role  for  the  luxuriant  tree  that, 
by  my  interpretation  of  the  picture,  rounds  out  the  lineage 
(with  the  dishonored  Christ  and  the  beggarwoman  as  vessels 
of  the  past  lineage,  and  the  lewd  Mussolini  and  the  imper- 
sonal tree  as  vessels  of  the  new  lineage,  which  I  should  in- 
terpret on  the  nonpolitical  level  as  saying  that  sexuality  is 
welcomed,  but  as  a  problem,  while  home  is  relegated  to  the 
world  of  the  impersonal,  abstract,  observed). 

From  another  point  of  view  we  may  consider  the  sacrifice 
of  gods,  or  of  kings,  as  stylistic  modes  for  dignifying  human 
concerns  (a  kind  of  neo-euhemerism).  In  his  stimulating 
study  of  the  ritual  drama,  The  Hero,  Lord  Raglan  over- 
stresses,  it  seems  to  me,  the  notion  that  these  dramas  ap- 
pealed purely  as  spectacles.  Would  it  not  be  more  likely  that 
the  fate  of  the  sacrificial  king  was  also  the  fate  of  the  audi- 
ence, in  stylized  form,  dignified,  "writ  large"?  Thus,  their 
engrossment  in  the  drama  would  not  be  merely  that  of 
watching  a  parade,  or  the  utilitarian  belief  that  the  ritual 
would  insure  rainfall,  crops,  fertility,  a  good  year,  etc.;  but, 
also,  the  stages  of  the  hero's  journey  would  chart  the  stages 
1*76 


FREUD  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  POETRY 
of  their  journey  (as  an  Elizabethan  play  about  royalty  was 
not  merely  an  opportunity  for  the  pit  to  get  a  glimpse  of 
high  life,  a  living  newspaper  on  the  doings  of  society,  but 
a  dignification  or  memorializing  of  their  own  concerns, 
translated  into  the  idiom  then  currently  accepted  as  the 
proper  language  of  magnification).7 

But  though  we  may  want  to  introduce  minor  revisions  in 
the  Freudian  perspective  here,  I  submit  that  we  should  take 
Freud's  key  terms,  "condensation"  and  "displacement,"  as 
the  over-all  categories  for  the  analysis  of  the  poem  as  dream. 
The  terms  are  really  two  different  approaches  to  the  same 
phenomenon.  Condensation,  we  might  say,  deals  with  the 
respects  in  which  house  in  a  dream  may  be  more  than  house, 
or  house  plus.  And  displacement  deals  with  the  way  in 
which  house  may  be  other  than  house,  or  house  minus.  (Per- 
haps we  should  say,  more  accurately,  minus  house.) 

One  can  understand  the  resistance  to  both  of  these  em- 
phases. It  leaves  no  opportunity  for  a  house  to  be  purely  and 
simply  a  house — and  whatever  we  may  feel  about  it  as  re- 
gards dreams,  it  is  a  very  disturbing  state  of  affairs  when 
transferred  to  the  realm  of  art.  We  must  acknowledge,  how- 
ever, that  the  house  in  a  poem  is,  when  judged  purely  and 
simply  as  a  house,  a  very  flimsy  structure  for  protection 
against  wind  and  rain.  So  there  seems  to  be  some  justice  in 
retaining  the  Freudian  terms  when  trying  to  decide  what  is 
going  on  in  poetry.  As  Freud  fills  them  out,  the  justification 
becomes  stronger.  The  ways  in  which  grammatical  rules  are 
violated,  for  instance;  the  dream's  ways  of  enacting  conjunc- 

7  Might  not  the  sacrificial  figure  (as  parent,  king,  or  god)  also  at  times  derive 
from  no  resistance  or  vindictiveness  whatsoever,  but  be  the  recipient  of  the  burden 
simply  through  "having  stronger  shoulders,  better  able  to  bear  it"?  And  might 
the  choice  of  guilty  scapegoats  (such  as  a  bad  father)  be  but  a  secondary  develop- 
ment for  accommodating  this  socialization  of  a  loss  to  the  patterns  of  legality? 

277 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

tions,  of  solving  arguments  by  club  offers  of  mutually  con- 
tradictory assertions;  the  importance  of  both  concomitances 
and  discontinuities  for  interpretative  purposes  (the  phe- 
nomena of  either  association  or  dissociation,  as  you  prefer, 
revealed  with  greatest  clarity  in  the  lapsus  linguae)]  the  con- 
version of  an  expression  into  its  corresponding  act  (as  were 
one,  at  a  time  when  "over  the  fence  is  out"  was  an  expres- 
sion in  vogue,  to  apply  this  comment  upon  some  act  by 
following  the  dream  of  this  act  by  a  dreamed  incident  of  a 
ball  going  over  a  fence);  and,  above  all,  the  notion  that  the 
optative  is  in  dreams,  as  often  in  poetry  and  essay,  presented 
in  the  indicative  (a  Freudian  observation  fertile  to  the  neo- 
positivists'  critique  of  language) — the  pliancy  and  ingenuity 
of  Freud's  researches  here  make  entrancing  reading,  and 
continually  provide  insights  that  can  be  carried  over,  mu- 
tatis mutandis,  to  the  operations  of  poetry.  Perhaps  we 
might  sloganize  the  point  thus:  In  so  far  as  art  contains  a 
surrealist  ingredient  (and  all  art  contains  some  of  this  in- 
gredient), psychoanalytic  coordinates  are  required  to  ex- 
plain the  logic  of  its  structure. 

Perhaps  we  might  take  some  of  the  pain  from  the  notions 
of  condensation  and  displacement  (with  the  tendency  of  one 
event  to  become  the  synecdochic  representative  of  some 
other  event  in  the  same  cluster)  by  imagining  a  hypothetical 
case  of  authorship.  A  novelist,  let  us  say,  is  trying  to  build 
up  for  us  a  sense  of  secrecy.  He  is  picturing  a  conspiracy,  yet 
he  was  never  himself  quite  this  kind  of  conspirator.  Might 
not  this  novelist  draw  upon  whatever  kinds  of  conspiracy  he 
himself  had  experientially  known  (as  for  instance  were  he 
to  draft  for  this  purpose  memories  of  his  participation  in 
some  childhood  Bund)}  If  this  were  so,  an  objective  break- 
down of  the  imagery  with  which  he  surrounded  the  con- 
278 


FREUD  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  POETRY 
spiratorial  events  in  his  novel  would  reveal  this  contribu- 
tory ingredient.  You  would  not  have  to  read  your  interpre- 
tation into  it.  It  would  be  objectively,  structurally,  there, 
and  could  be  pointed  to  by  scissor  work.  For  instance,  the 
novelist  might  explicitly  state  that,  when  joining  the  con- 
spiracy, the  hero  recalled  some  incident  of  his  childhood. 
Or  the  adult  conspirators  would,  at  strategic  points,  be  ex- 
plicitly likened  by  the  novelist  to  children,  etc.  A  statement 
about  the  ingredients  of  the  work's  motivation  would  thus 
be  identical  with  a  statement  about  the  work's  structure — a 
statement  as  to  what  goes  with  what  in  the  work  itself.  Thus, 
in  Coleridge's  "The  Eolian  Harp,"  you  do  not  have  to  inter- 
pret the  poet's  communion  with  the  universe  as  an  affront 
to  his  wife;  the  poet  himself  explicitly  apologizes  to  her  for 
it.  Also,  it  is  an  objectively  citable  fact  that  imagery  of  noon 
goes  with  this  apology.  If,  then,  we  look  at  other  poems  by 
Coleridge,  noting  the  part  played  by  the  Sun  at  noon  in 
the  punishments  of  the  guilt-laden  Ancient  Mariner,  along 
with  the  fact  that  the  situation  of  the  narrator's  confession 
involves  the  detention  of  a  wedding  guest  from  the  mar- 
riage feast,  plus  the  fact  that  a  preference  for  church  as 
against  marriage  is  explicitly  stated  at  the  end  of  the  poem, 
we  begin  to  see  a  motivational  cluster  emerging.  It  is  obvious 
that  such  structural  interrelationships  cannot  be  wholly  con- 
scious, since  they  are  generalizations  about  acts  that  can 
only  be  made  inductively  and  statistically  after  the  acts 
have  been  accumulated.  (This  applies  as  much  to  the  acts 
of  a  single  poem  as  to  the  acts  of  many  poems.  We  may  find 
a  theme  emerging  in  one  work  that  attains  fruition  in  that 
same  work — the  ambiguities  of  its  implications  where  it 
first  emerges  attaining  explication  in  the  same  integer.  Or 
its  full  character  may  not  be  developed  until  a  later  work. 

279 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
In  its  ambiguous  emergent  form  it  is  a  synecdochic  repre- 
sentative of  the  form  it  later  assumes  when  it  comes  to  frui- 
tion in  either  the  same  work  or  in  another  one.) 

However,  though  the  synecdochic  process  (whereby  some- 
thing does  service  for  the  other  members  of  its  same  cluster 
or  as  the  foreshadowing  of  itself  in  a  later  development) 
cannot  be  wholly  conscious,  the  dream  is  not  all  dream.  We 
might  say,  in  fact,  that  the  Freudian  analysis  of  art  was 
handicapped  by  the  aesthetic  of  the  period — an  aesthetic 
shared  even  by  those  who  would  have  considered  themselves 
greatly  at  odds  with  Freud  and  who  were,  in  contrast  with 
his  delving  into  the  unbeautiful,  concerned  with  beauty 
only.  This  was  the  aesthetic  that  placed  the  emphasis  wholly 
upon  the  function  of  self-expression.  The  artist  had  a  num- 
ber— some  unique  character  or  identity — and  his  art  was 
the  externalizing  of  this  inwardness.  The  general  Schopen- 
hauerian  trend  contributed  to  this.  Von  Hartmann's  Phi- 
losophy of  the  Unconscious  has  reinforced  the  same  pattern. 
This  version  of  voluntaristic  processes,  as  connected  with 
current  theories  of  emancipation,  resulted  in  a  picture  of 
the  dark,  unconscious  drive  calling  for  the  artist  to  "out 
with  it."  The  necessary  function  of  the  Freudian  secular 
confessional,  as  a  preparatory  step  to  redemption,  gave 
further  strength  to  the  same  picture.  Add  the  "complex  in 
terms  of  the  simple"  strategy  (with  its  variants — higher  in 
terms  of  lower,  normal  as  a  mere  attenuation  of  the  ab- 
normal, civilized  as  the  primitive  sublimated);  add  the  war 
of  the  generations  (which  was  considered  as  a  kind  of  abso- 
lute rather  than  as  a  by-product  of  other  factors,  as  those 
who  hated  the  idea  of  class  war  took  in  its  stead  either  the 
war  of  the  generations  or  the  war  of  the  sexes) — and  you  get 
280 


FREUD    AND    ANALYSIS    OF    POETRY 
a  picture   that  almost  automatically  places   the   emphasis 
upon  art  as  utterance,  as  the  naming  of  one's  number,  as  a 
blurting-out,  as  catharsis  by  secretion. 

I  suggested  two  other  broad  categories  for  the  analysis  of 
poetic  organization:  prayer  and  chart. 

Prayer  would  enter  the  Freudian  picture  in  so  far  as  it 
concerns  the  optative.  But  prayer  does  not  stop  at  that. 
Prayer  is  also  an  act  of  communion.  Hence,  the  concept  of 
prayer,  as  extended  to  cover  also  secular  forms  of  petition, 
moves  us  into  the  corresponding  area  of  communication  in 
general.  We  might  say  that,  whereas  the  expressionistic  em- 
phasis reveals  the  ways  in  which  the  poet,  with  an  attitude, 
embodies  it  in  appropriate  gesture,  communication  deals 
with  the  choice  of  gesture  for  the  inducement  of  correspond- 
ing attitudes.  Sensory  imagery  has  this  same  communicative 
function,  inviting  the  reader,  within  the  limits  of  the  fiction 
at  least,  to  make  himself  over  in  the  image  of  the  imagery. 

Considering  the  poem  from  this  point  of  view,  we  begin 
with  the  incantatory  elements  in  art,  the  ways  of  leading  in 
or  leading  on  the  hypothetical  audience  X  to  which  the 
poem,  as  a  medium,  is  addressed  (though  this  hypothetical 
audience  X  be  nothing  more  concrete,  as  regards  social  re- 
lations, than  a  critical  aspect  of  the  poet's  own  personality). 
Even  Freud's  dream  had  a  censor;  but  the  poet's  censor  is 
still  more  exacting,  as  his  shapings  and  revisions  are  made 
for  the  purpose  of  forestalling  resistances  (be  those  an  essay 
reader's  resistances  to  arguments  and  evidence  or  the  novel 
reader's  resistance  to  developments  of  narrative  or  char- 
acter). We  move  here  into  the  sphere  of  rhetoric  (reader-  I 
writer  relationships,  an  aspect  of  art  that  Freud  explicitly 
impinges  upon  only  to  a  degree  in  his  analysis  of  wit),  with 
the  notion  of  address  being  most  evident  in  oration  and 
281 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
letter,  less  so  in  drama,  and  least  in  the  lyric.  Roughly,  I 
should  say  that  the  slightest  presence  of  revision  is  per  se 
indication  of  a  poet's  feeling  that  his  work  is  addressed  (if 
only,  as  Mead  might  say,  the  address  of  an  "I"  to  its  "me"). 

Here  would  enter  consideration  of  formal  devices,  ways  of 
pointing  up  and  fulfilling  expectations,  of  living  up  to  a 
contract  with  the  reader  (as  Wordsworth  and  Coleridge 
might  put  it),  of  easing  by  transition  or  sharpening  by  ellip- 
sis; in  short,  all  that  falls  within  the  sphere  of  incantation, 
imprecation,  exhortation,  inducement,  weaving  and  releas- 
ing of  spells;  matters  of  style  and  form,  of  meter  and 
rhythm,  as  contributing  to  these  results;  and  thence  to  the 
conventions  and  social  values  that  the  poet  draws  upon  in 
forming  the  appropriate  recipes  for  the  roles  of  protagonist 
and  antagonist,  into  which  the  total  agon  is  analytically 
broken  down,  with  subsidiary  roles  polarized  about  one  or 
the  other  of  the  two  agonists  tapering  off  to  form  a  region 
of  overlap  between  the  two  principles — the  ground  of  the 
agon.  Here,  as  the  reverse  of  prayer,  would  come  also  in- 
vective, indictment,  oath.  And  the  gestures  might  -well  be 
tracked  down  eventually  to  choices  far  closer  to  bodily  pan- 
tomime than  is  revealed  on  the  level  of  social  evaluation 
alone  (as  were  a  poet,  seeking  the  gestures  appropriate  for 
the  conveying  of  a  social  negativeness,  to  draw  finally  upon 
imagery  of  disgust,  and  perhaps  even,  at  felicitous  moments, 
to  select  his  speech  by  playing  up  the  very  consonants  that 
come  nearest  to  the  enacting  of  repulsion). 

As  to  the  poem  as  chart:  the  Freudian  emphasis  upon  the 
pun  brings  it  about  that  something  can  only  be  in  so  far  as 
it  is  something  else.  But,  aside  from  these  ambiguities,  there 
is  also  a  statement's  value  as  being  exactly  what  it  is.  Per- 
haps we  could  best  indicate  what  we  mean  by  speaking  of 
282 


FREUD  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  POETRY 

the  poem  as  chart  if  we  called  it  the  poet's  contribution  to 
an  informal  dictionary.  As  with  proverbs,  he  finds  some 
experience  or  relationship  typical,  or  recurrent,  or  signifi- 
cant enough  for  him  to  need  a  word  for  it.  Except  that  his 
way  of  defining  the  word  is  not  to  use  purely  conceptual 
terms,  as  in  a  formal  dictionary,  but  to  show  how  his  vision 
behaves,  with  appropriate  attitudes.  In  this,  again,  it  is  like 
the  proverb  that  does  not  merely  name  but  names  vindic- 
tively, or  plaintively,  or  promisingly,  or  consolingly,  etc. 
His  namings  need  not  be  new  ones.  Often  they  are  but 
memorializings  of  an  experience  long  recognized. 

But,  essentially,  they  are  enactments,  with  every  form  of 
expression  being  capable  of  treatment  as  the  efficient  exten- 
sion of  one  aspect  or  another  of  ritual  drama  (so  that  even 
the  scientific  essay  would  have  its  measure  of  choreography, 
its  pedestrian  pace  itself  being  analyzed  as  gesture  or  in- 
cantation, its  polysyllables  being  as  style  the  mimetics  of  a 
distinct  monasticism,  etc.).  And  this  observation,  whereby 
we  have  willy-nilly  slipped  back  into  the  former  subject,  the 
symbolic  act  as  prayer,  leads  us  to  observe  that  the  three 
aspects  of  the  poem,  here  proposed,  are  not  elements  that 
can  be  isolated  in  the  poem  itself,  with  one  line  revealing 
the  "dream,"  another  the  "prayer,"  and  a  third  the  "chart." 
They  merely  suggest  three  convenient  modes  in  which  to 
approach  the  task  of  analysis.8 

The  primary  category,  for  the  explicit  purposes  of  literary 
criticism,  would  thus  seem  to  me  to  be  that  of  communica- 
tion rather  than  that  of  wish,  with  its  disguises,  frustrations, 

s  Dream  has  its  opposite,  nightmare;  prayer  has  its  opposite,  oath.  Charts  merely 
vary — in  scope  and  relevance.  In  "Kubla  Khan,"  automatically  composed  during  an 
opium  dream,  the  dream  ingredient  is  uppermost.  In  "The  Ancient  Mariner," 
the  prayer  ingredient  is  uppermost.  In  "Dejection"  and  "The  Pains  of  Sleep," 
the  chart  ingredient  is  uppermost:  here  Coleridge  is  explicitly  discussing  his  sit- 
uation. 

283 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
and  fulfillments.  Wishes  themselves,  in  fact,  become  from 
this  point  of  view  analyzable  as  purposes  that  get  their  shape 
from  the  poet's  perspective  in  general  (while  this  perspective 
is  in  turn  shaped  by  the  collective  medium  of  communica- 
tion). The  choice  of  communication  also  has  the  advantage, 
from  the  sociological  point  of  view,  that  it  resists  the  Freud- 
ian tendency  to  overplay  the  psychological  factor  (as  the 
total  medium  of  communication  is  not  merely  that  of  words, 
colors,  forms,  etc.,  or  of  the  values  and  conventions  with 
which  these  are  endowed,  but  also  the  productive  materials, 
cooperative  resources,  property  rights,  authorities,  and  their 
various  bottlenecks,  which  figure  in  the  total  act  of  human 
conversation). 

Hence,  to  sum  up:  I  should  say  that,  for  the  explicit  pur- 
poses of  literary  criticism,  we  should  require  more  emphasis 
than  the  Freudian  structure  gives,  (1)  to  the  proportional 
strategy  as  against  the  essentializing  one,  (2)  to  matriarchal 
symbolizations  as  against  the  Freudian  patriarchal  bias,  (3) 
to  poem  as  prayer  and  chart,  as  against  simply  the  poem  as 
dream. 

But  I  fully  recognize  that,  once  the  ingenious  and  com- 
plex structure  has  been  erected,  nearly  anyone  can  turn  up 
with  proposals  that  it  be  given  a  little  more  of  this,  a  little 
less  of  that,  a  pinch  of  so-and-so,  etc.  And  I  recognize  that, 
above  all,  we  owe  an  enormous  debt  of  gratitude  to  the  man 
who,  by  his  insight,  his  energy,  and  his  remarkably  keen 
powers  of  articulation,  made  such  tinkering  possible.  It  is 
almost  fabulous  to  think  that,  after  so  many  centuries  of 
the  family,  it  is  only  now  that  this  central  factor  in  our  social 
organization  has  attained  its  counterpart  in  an  organized 
critique  of  the  family  and  of  the  ways  in  which  the  informa- 
tive experience  with  familiar  roles  may  be  carried  over,  or 
284 


FREUD  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  POETRY 
"metaphored,"  into  the  experience  with  extra-familiar  roles, 
giving  these  latter,  in  so  far  as  they  are,  or  are  felt  to  be, 
analogous  with  the  former,  a  structure  of  interpretations 
and  attitudes  borrowed  from  the  former.  And  in  so  far  as 
poets,  like  everyone  else,  are  regularly  involved  in  such  in- 
formative familiar  relationships,  long  before  any  but  a  few 
rudimentary  bodily  gestures  are  available  for  communica- 
tive use  (with  their  first  use  unquestionably  being  the  purely 
self-expressive  one),  the  child  is  indeed  the  adult  poet's 
father,  as  he  is  the  father  of  us  all  (if  not  so  in  essence,  then 
at  least  as  regards  an  important  predisposing  factor  "to  look 
out  for").  Thence  we  get  to  "like  father  like  son."  And 
thence  we  get  to  Freud's  brilliant  documentation  of  this 
ancestry,  as  it  affects  the  maintenance  of  a  continuity  in  the 
growing  personality. 

Only  if  we  eliminate  biography  entirely  as  a  relevant  fact 
about  poetic  organization  can  we  eliminate  the  importance 
of  the  psychoanalyst's  search  for  universal  patterns  of  bi- 
ography (as  revealed  in  the  search  for  basic  myths  which 
recur  in  new  guises  as  a  theme  with  variations);  and  we  can 
eliminate  biography  as  a  relevant  fact  about  poetic  organiza- 
tion only  if  we  consider  the  work  of  art  as  if  it  were  written 
neither  by  people  nor  for  people,  involving  neither  induce- 
ments nor  resistances.9  Such  can  be  done,  but  the  cost  is 

9  Those  who  stress  form  of  this  sort,  as  against  content,  usually  feel  that  they  are 
concerned  with  judgments  of  excellence  as  against  judgments  of  the  merely  repre- 
sentative. Yet,  just  as  a  content  category  such  as  the  Oedipus  complex  is  neutral, 
i.  e.,  includes  both  good  and  bad  examples  of  its  kind,  so  does  a  form  category, 
such  as  sonnet  or  iambic  pentameter,  include  both  good  and  bad  examples  of  its 
kind.  In  fact,  though  categories  or  classifications  may  be  employed  for  evaluative 
purposes,  they  should  be  of  themselves  nonevaluative.  Apples  is  a  neutral,  non- 
evaluative  class,  including  firm  apples  and  rotten  ones.  Categories  that  are  in 
themselves  evaluative  are  merely  circular  arguments — disguised  ways  of  saying 
"this  is  good  because  it  is  good."  The  orthodox  strategy  of  disguise  is  to  break  the 
statement  into  two  parts,  such  as:  "This  is  good  because  it  has  form;  and  form  is 
good."  The  lure  behind  the  feeling  that  the  miracle  of  evaluation  can  be  replaced 
by  a  codified  scientific  routine  of  evaluation  seems  to  get  its  backing  from  the  hope 

28.K 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

tremendous  in  so  far  as  the  critic  considers  it  his  task  to 
disclose  the  poem's  eventfulness. 

However,  this  is  decidedly  not  the  same  thing  as  saying 
that  "we  cannot  appreciate  the  poem  without  knowing  about 
its  relation  to  the  poet's  life  as  an  individual."  Rather,  it  is 
equivalent  to  saying:  "We  cannot  understand  a  poem's 
structure  without  understanding  the  function  of  that  struc- 
ture. And  to  understand  its  function  we  must  understand  its 
purpose."  To  be  sure,  there  are  respects  in  which  the  poem, 
as  purpose,  is  doing  things  for  the  poet  that  it  is  doing  for 
no  one  else.  For  instance,  I  think  it  can  be  shown  by  analy- 
sis of  the  imagery  in  Coleridge's  "Mystery  Poems"  that  one 
of  the  battles  being  fought  there  is  an  attempt  to  get  self- 
redemption  by  the  poet's  striving  for  the  vicarious  or  ritual- 
istic redemption  of  his  drug.  It  is  obvious  that  this  aspect  of 
the  equational  structure  is  private  and  would  best  merit  dis- 
cussion when  one  is  discussing  the  strategy  of  one  man  in  its 
particularities.  Readers  in  general  will  respond  only  to  the 
sense  of  guilt,  which  was  sharpened  for  Coleridge  by  his 
particular  burden  of  addiction,  but  which  may  be  sharp- 
ened for  each  reader  by  totally  different  particularities  of 


that  a  concept  of  quality  can  be  matched  by  a  number.  The  terms  missing  may  be 
revealed  by  a  diagram,  thus: 

Quantity    Number 

Weight Pound 

Length  Foot 

Duration   Hour 

Quality (        ) 

Excellence (        ) 

Inferiority  (        ) 

Often  the  strategy  of  concealment  is  accomplished  by  an  ambiguity,  as  the  critic 
sometimes  uses  the  term  "poetry"  to  designate  good  poetry,  and  sometimes  uses  it 
to  designate  "poetry,  any  poetry,  good,  bad,  or  indifferent."  I  do,  however,  strongly 
sympathize  with  the  formalists,  as  against  the  sociologists,  when  the  sociologist 
treats  poetry  simply  as  a  kind  of  haphazard  sociological  survey — a  report  about 
world-conditions  that  often  shows  commendable  intuitive  insight  but  is  handi- 
capped by  a  poor  methodology  of  research  and  controls. 

286 


FREUD  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  POETRY 

experience.  But  if  you  do  not  discuss  the  poem's  structure 
as  a  function  of  symbolic  redemption  at  all  (as  a  kind  of 
private-enterprise  Mass,  with  important  ingredients  of  a 
black  Mass),  the  observations  you  make  about  its  structure 
are  much  more  likely  to  be  gratuitous  and  arbitrary  (quite 
as  only  the  most  felicitous  of  observers  could  relevantly  de- 
scribe the  distribution  of  men  and  postures  in  a  football 
game  if  he  had  no  knowledge  of  the  game's  purpose  and 
did  not  discuss  its  formations  as  oppositional  tactics  for  the 
carrying-out  of  this  purpose,  but  treated  the  spectacle  simply 
as  the  manifestation  of  a  desire  to  instruct  and  amuse). 

Thus,  in  the  case  of  "The  Ancient  Mariner,"  knowledge 
of  Coleridge's  personal  problems  may  enlighten  us  as  to  the 
particular  burdens  that  the  Pilot's  boy  ("who  now  doth 
crazy  go")  took  upon  himself  as  scapegoat  for  the  poet  alone. 
But  his  appearance  in  the  poem  cannot  be  understood  at  all, 
except  in  superficial  terms  of  the  interesting  or  the  pictur- 
esque, if  we  do  not  grasp  his  function  as  a  scapegoat  of 
some  sort — a  victimized  vessel  for  drawing  off  the  most 
malign  aspects  of  the  curse  that  afflicts  the  "greybeard  loon" 
whose  cure  had  been  effected  under  the  dubious  aegis  of 
moonlight.  And  I  believe  that  such  a  functional  approach 
is  the  only  one  that  can  lead  into  a  profitable  analysis  of  a 
poem's  structure  even  on  the  purely  technical  level.  I  re- 
member how,  for  instance,  I  had  pondered  for  years  the 
reference  to  the  "silly  buckets"  filled  with  curative  rain.  I 
noted  the  epithet  as  surprising,  picturesque,  and  interesting. 
I  knew  that  it  was  doing  something,  but  I  wasn't  quite  sure 
what.  But  as  soon  as  I  looked  upon  the  Pilot's  boy  as  a 
scapegoat,  I  saw  that  the  word  silly  was  a  technical  fore- 
shadowing of  the  fate  that  befell  this  figure  in  the  poem. 
The  structure  itself  became  more  apparent:  the  "loon"-atic 
287 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
Mariner  begins  his  cure  from  drought  under  the  aegis  of 
a  moon  that  causes  a  silly  rain,  thence  by  synecdoche  to  silly 
buckets,  and  the  most  malignant  features  of  this  problem- 
atic cure  are  transferred  to  the  Pilot's  boy  who  now  doth 
crazy  go.  Now,  if  you  want  to  confine  your  observations  to 
the  one  poem,  you  have  a  structural-functional-technical 
analysis  of  some  important  relationships  within  the  poem 
itself.  If  you  wish  to  trail  the  matter  farther  afield,  into  the 
equational  structure  of  other  work  by  Coleridge,  you  can 
back  your  interpretation  of  the  moon  by  such  reference  as 
that  to  "moon-blasted  madness,"  which  gives  you  increased 
authority  to  discern  lunatic  ingredients  in  the  lunar.  His 
letters,  where  he  talks  of  his  addiction  in  imagery  like  that 
of  the  "Mystery  Poems"  and  contemplates  entering  an  in- 
sane asylum  for  a  cure,  entitle  you  to  begin  looking  for 
traces  of  the  drug  as  an  ingredient  in  the  redemptive  prob- 
lem. His  letters  also  explicitly  place  the  drug  in  the  same 
cluster  with  the  serpent;  hence,  we  begin  to  discern  what  is 
going  on  when  the  Mariner  transubstantiates  the  water 
snakes,  in  removing  them  from  the  category  of  the  loath- 
some and  accursed  to  the  category  of  the  blessed  and  beauti- 
ful. So  much  should  be  enough  for  the  moment.  Since  the 
poem  is  constructed  about  an  opposition  between  punish- 
ments under  the  aegis  of  the  sun  and  cure  under  the  aegis  of 
the  moon,  one  could  proceed  in  other  works  to  disclose  the 
two  sets  of  equations  clustered  about  these  two  principles. 
Indeed,  even  in  "The  Ancient  Mariner"  itself  we  get  a 
momentous  cue,  as  the  sun  is  explicitly  said  to  be  "like 
God's  own  head."  But,  for  the  moment,  all  I  would  main- 
tain is  that,  if  we  had  but  this  one  poem  by  Coleridge,  and 
knew  not  one  other  thing  about  him,  we  could  not  get  an 
288 


FREUD  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  POETRY 

insight  into  its  structure  until  we  began  with  an  awareness 

of  its  function  as  a  symbolic  redemptive  process. 

I  can  imagine  a  time  when  the  psychological  picture  will 
be  so  well  known  and  taken  into  account — when  we  shall 
have  gone  so  far  beyond  Freud's  initial  concerns — that  a 
reference  to  the  polymorphous  perverse  of  the  infantile, 
for  instance,  will  seem  far  too  general — a  mere  first  approxi- 
mation. Everyone  provides  an  instance  of  the  polymorphous 
perverse,  in  attenuated  form,  at  a  moment  of  hesitancy; 
caught  in  the  trackless  maze  of  an  unresolved,  and  even  un- 
defined, conflict,  he  regresses  along  this  channel  and  that, 
in  a  formless  experimentation  that  "tries  anything  and 
everything,  somewhat."  And  in  so  far  as  his  puzzle  is  re- 
solved into  pace,  and  steady  rhythms  of  a  progressive  way 
out  are  established,  there  is  always  the  likelihood  that  this 
solution  will  maintain  continuity  with  the  past  of  the  poet's 
personality  by  a  covert  drawing  upon  analogies  with  this 
past.  Hence  the  poet  or  speculator,  no  matter  how  new  the 
characters  with  which  he  is  now  concerned,  will  give  them 
somewhat  the  roles  of  past  characters;  whereat  I  see  nothing 
unusual  about  the  thought  that  a  mature  and  highly  com- 
plex philosophy  might  be  so  organized  as  to  be  surrogate 
for,  let  us  say,  a  kind  of  adult  breast-feeding — or,  in  those 
more  concerned  with  alienation,  a  kind  of  adult  weaning. 
Such  categories  do  not  by  any  means  encompass  the  totality 
of  a  communicative  structure;  but  they  are  part  of  it,  and 
the  imagery  and  transitions  of  the  poem  itself  cannot  dis- 
close their  full  logic  until  such  factors  are  taken  into  account. 

However,  I  have  spoken  of  pace.  And  perhaps  I  might 
conclude  with  some  words  on  the  bearing  that  the  Freudian 
289 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
technique  has  upon  the  matter  of  pace.  The  Freudian  pro- 
cedure is  primarily  designed  to  break  down  a  rhythm  grown 
obsessive,  to  confront  the  systematic  pieties  of  the  patient's 
misery  with  systematic  impieties  of  the  clinic.10  But  the 
emphasis  here  is  more  upon  the  breaking  of  a  malign 
rhythm  than  upon  the  upbuilding  of  a  benign  one.  There  is 
no  place  in  this  technique  for  examining  the  available  re- 
sources whereby  the  adoption  of  total  dramatic  enactment 
may  lead  to  correspondingly  proper  attitude.  There  is  no 
talk  of  games,  of  dance,  of  manual  and  physical  actions,  of 
historical  role,  as  a  "way  in"  to  this  new  upbuilding.  The 
sedentary  patient  is  given  a  sedentary  cure.  The  theory  of 
rhythms — work  rhythms,  dance  rhythms,  march  rhythms — 
is  no  explicit  part  of  this  scheme,  which  is  primarily  de- 
signed to  break  old  rhythms  rather  than  to  establish  new 
ones. 

The  establishing  of  a  new  pace,  beyond  the  smashing 
of  the  old  puzzle,  would  involve  in  the  end  a  rounded  phi- 
losophy of  the  drama.  Freud,  since  his  subject  is  conflict, 
hovers  continually  about  the  edges  of  such  a  philosophy;  yet 
it  is  not  dialectical  enough.  For  this  reason  Marxists  prop- 
erly resent  his  theories,  even  though  one  could,  by  culling 
incidental  sentences  from  his  works,  lit  him  comfortably 
into  the  Marxist  perspective.  But  the  Marxists  are  wrong, 
I  think,  in  resenting  him  as  an  irrationalist,  for  there  is 
nothing  more  rational  than  the  systematic  recognition  of 
irrational  and  nonrational  factors.  And  I  should  say  that 

10  There  are  styles  of  cure,  shifting  from  age  to  age,  because  each  novelty  be- 
comes a  commonplace,  so  that  the  patient  integrates  his  conflict  with  the  ingredi- 
ents of  the  old  cure  itself,  thus  making  them  part  of  his  obsession.  Hence,  the  need 
for  a  new  method  of  jolting.  Thus,  I  should  imagine  that  a  patient  who  had  got 
into  difficulties  after  mastering  the  Freudian  technique  would  present  the  most 
obstinate  problems  for  a  Freudian  cure.  He  would  require  some  step  beyond 
Freud.  The  same  observation  would  apply  to  shifting  styles  in  a  poetry  and  phi- 
losophy, when  considered  as  cures,  as  the  filling  of  a  need. 

290 


FREUD  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  POETRY 
both  Freudians  and  Marxists  are  wrong  in  so  far  as  they 
cannot  put  their  theories  together,  by  an  over-all  theory  of 
drama  itself  (as  they  should  be  able  to  do,  since  Freud  gives 
us  the  material  of  the  closet  drama,  and  Marx  the  material 
of  the  problem  play,  the  one  worked  out  in  terms  of  per- 
sonal conflicts,  the  other  in  terms  of  public  conflicts). 

The  approach  would  require  explicitly  the  analysis  of 
role:  salvation  via  change  or  purification  of  identity  (purifi- 
cation in  either  the  moral  or  chemical  sense);  different  typi- 
cal relationships  between  individual  and  group  (as  charted 
attitudinally  in  proverbs,  and  in  complex  works  treated  as 
sophisticated  variants);  modes  of  acceptance,  rejection,  self- 
acceptance,  rejection  of  rejection  1X  ("the  enemies  of  my 
enemies  are  my  friends");  transitional  disembodiment  as  in- 
termediate step  between  old  self  and  new  self  (the  spiritu- 
ality of  Shelley  and  of  the  Freudian  cure  itself);  monasti- 
cism  in  the  development  of  methods  that  fix  a  transitional  or 
other-worldly  stage,  thereby  making  the  evanescent  itself 
into  a  kind  of  permanency — with  all  these  modes  of  enact- 
ment finally  employing,  as  part  of  the  gesture  idiom,  the 
responses  of  the  body  itself  as  actor.  (If  one  sought  to  employ 
Freud,  as  is,  for  the  analysis  of  the  poem,  one  would  find 
almost  nothing  on  poetic  posture  or  pantomime,  tonality, 
the  significance  of  different  styles  and  rhythmic  patterns, 
nothing  of  this  behaviorism.)  Such,  it  seems  to  me,  would 
be  necessary,  and  much  more  in  that  direction,  before  we 
could  so  extend  Freud's  perspective  that  it  revealed  the 
major  events  going  on  in  art. 

But  such  revisions  would  by  no  means  be  anti-Freudian. 
They  would  be  the  kind  of  extensions  required  by  reason  of 

11 1  am  indebted  to  Norbert  Gutermann  for  the  term  "self-acceptance"  and  to 
William  S.  Knickerbocker  for  the  term  "rejection  of  rejection." 

291 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
the  fact  that  the  symbolic  act  of  art,  whatever  its  analogies 
with  the  symbolic  act  of  neurosis,  also  has  important  diver- 
gencies from  the  symbolic  act  of  neurosis.  They  would  be 
extensions  designed  to  take  into  account  the  full  play  of 
communicative  and  realistic  ingredients  that  comprise  so 
large  an  aspect  of  poetic  structure. 


292 


LITERATURE 

AS  EQUIPMENT  FOR  LIVING 


HERE  I  shall  put  down,  as  briefly  as  possible,  a  statement 
in  behalf  of  what  might  be  catalogued,  with  a  fair  degree 
of  accuracy,  as  a  sociological  criticism  of  literature.  Socio- 
logical criticism  in  itself  is  certainly  not  new.  I  shall  here  try 
to  suggest  what  partially  new  elements  or  emphasis  I  think 
should  be  added  to  this  old  approach.  And  to  make  the 
"way  in"  as  easy  as  possible,  I  shall  begin  with  a  discussion 
of  proverbs. 


Examine  random  specimens  in  The  Oxford  Dictionary  of 
English  Proverbs.  You  will  note,  I  think,  that  there  is  no 
"pure"  literature  here.  Everything  is  "medicine."  Proverbs 
are  designed  for  consolation  or  vengeance,  for  admonition 
or  exhortation,  for  foretelling. 

Or  they  name  typical,  recurrent  situations.  That  is,  peo- 
ple find  a  certain  social  relationship  recurring  so  frequently 
that  they  must  "have  a  word  for  it."  The  Eskimos  have 
special  names  for  many  different  kinds  of  snow  (fifteen, 
if  I  remember  rightly)  because  variations  in  the  quality 
of  snow  greatly  affect  their  living.  Hence,  they  must  "size 
up"  snow  much  more  accurately  than  we  do.  And  the  same 
is  true  of  social  phenomena.  Social  structures  give  rise  to 
"type"  situations,  subtle  subdivisions  of  the  relationships 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

involved  in  competitive  and  cooperative  acts.  Many  prov- 
erbs seek  to  chart,  in  more  or  less  homey  and  picturesque 
ways,  these  "type"  situations.  I  submit  that  such  naming  is 
done,  not  for  the  sheer  glory  of  the  thing,  but  because  of 
its  bearing  upon  human  welfare.  A  different  name  for  snow 
implies  a  different  kind  of  hunt.  Some  names  for  snow  im- 
ply that  one  should  not  hunt  at  all.  And  similarly,  the  names 
for  typical,  recurrent  social  situations  are  not  developed  out 
of  "disinterested  curiosity,"  but  because  the  names  imply 
a  command  (what  to  expect,  what  to  look  out  for). 

To  illustrate  with  a  few  representative  examples: 

Proverbs  designed  for  consolation:  "The  sun  does  not 
shine  on  both  sides  of  the  hedge  at  once."  "Think  of  ease, 
but  work  on."  "Little  troubles  the  eye,  but  far  less  the  soul." 
"The  worst  luck  now,  the  better  another  time."  "The  wind 
in  one's  face  makes  one  wise."  "He  that  hath  lands  hath 
quarrels."  "He  knows  how  to  carry  the  dead  cock  home." 
"He  is  not  poor  that  hath  little,  but  he  that  desireth  much." 

For  vengeance:  "At  length  the  fox  is  brought  to  the  fur- 
rier." "Shod  in  the  cradle,  barefoot  in  the  stubble."  "Sue  a 
beggar  and  get  a  louse."  "The  higher  the  ape  goes,  the  more 
he  shows  his  tail."  "The  moon  does  not  heed  the  barking  of 
dogs."  "He  measures  another's  corn  by  his  own  bushel." 
"He  shuns  the  man  who  knows  him  well."  "Fools  tie  knots 
and  wise  men  loose  them." 

Proverbs  that  have  to  do  with  foretelling:  (The  most 
obvious  are  those  to  do  with  the  weather.)  "Sow  peas  and 
beans  in  the  wane  of  the  moon,  Who  soweth  them  sooner, 
he  soweth  too  soon."  "When  the  wind's  in  the  north,  the 
skilful  fisher  goes  not  forth."  "When  the  sloe  tree  is  as  white 
as  a  sheet,  sow  your  barley  whether  it  be  dry  or  wet."  "When 
the  sun  sets  bright  and  clear,  An  easterly  wind  you  need  not 

294 


EQUIPMENT    FOR    LIVING 

fear.  When  the  sun  sets  in  a  bank,  A  westerly  wind  we  shall 
not  want." 

In  short:  "Keep  your  weather  eye  open":  be  realistic 
about  sizing  up  today's  weather,  because  your  accuracy  has 
bearing  upon  tomorrow's  weather.  And  forecast  not  only 
the  meteorological  weather,  but  also  the  social  weather: 
"When  the  moon's  in  the  full,  then  wit's  in  the  wane." 
"Straws  show  which  way  the  wind  blows."  "When  the  fish 
is  caught,  the  net  is  laid  aside."  "Remove  an  old  tree,  and  it 
will  wither  to  death."  "The  wolf  may  lose  his  teeth,  but 
never  his  nature."  "He  that  bites  on  every  weed  must  needs 
light  on  poison."  "Whether  the  pitcher  strikes  the  stone,  or 
the  stone  the  pitcher,  it  is  bad  for  the  pitcher."  "Eagles  catch 
no  flies."  "The  more  laws,  the  more  offenders." 

In  this  foretelling  category  we  might  also  include  the 
recipes  for  wise  living,  sometimes  moral,  sometimes  techni- 
cal: "First  thrive,  and  then  wive."  "Think  with  the  wise 
but  talk  with  the  vulgar."  "When  the  fox  preacheth,  then 
beware  your  geese."  "Venture  a  small  fish  to  catch  a  great 
one."  "Respect  a  man,  he  will  do  the  more." 

In  the  class  of  "typical,  recurrent  situations"  we  might 
put  such  proverbs  and  proverbial  expressions  as:  "Sweet  ap- 
pears sour  when  we  pay."  "The  treason  is  loved  but  the 
traitor  is  hated."  "The  wine  in  the  bottle  does  not  quench 
thirst."  "The  sun  is  never  the  worse  for  shining  on  a  dung- 
hill." "The  lion  kicked  by  an  ass."  "The  lion's  share."  "To 
catch  one  napping."  "To  smell  a  rat."  "To  cool  one's  heels." 

By  all  means,  I  do  not  wish  to  suggest  that  this  is  the  only 
way  in  which  the  proverbs  could  be  classified.  For  instance, 
I  have  listed  in  the  "foretelling"  group  the  proverb,  "When 
the  fox  preacheth,  then  beware  your  geese."  But  it  could 
obviously  be  "taken  over"  for  vindictive  purposes.  Or  con- 
295 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
sider  a  proverb  like,  "Virtue  flies  from  the  heart  of  a  mer- 
cenary man."  A  poor  man  might  obviously  use  it  either 
to  console  himself  for  being  poor  (the  implication  being, 
"Because  I  am  poor  in  money  I  am  rich  in  virtue")  or  to 
strike  at  another  (the  implication  being,  "When  he  got 
money,  what  else  could  you  expect  of  him  but  deteriora- 
tion?"). In  fact,  we  could  even  say  that  such  symbolic  ven- 
geance would  itself  be  an  aspect  of  solace.  And  a  proverb 
like  "The  sun  is  never  the  worse  for  shining  on  a  dunghill" 
(which  I  have  listed  under  "typical  recurrent  situations") 
might  as  well  be  put  in  the  vindictive  category. 

The  point  of  issue  is  not  to  find  categories  that  "place" 
the  proverbs  once  and  for  all.  What  I  want  is  categories  that 
suggest  their  active  nature.  Here  there  is  no  "realism  for 
its  own  sake."  There  is  realism  for  promise,  admonition, 
solace,  vengeance,  foretelling,  instruction,  charting,  all  for 
the  direct  bearing  that  such  acts  have  upon  matters  of  wel- 
fare. 


Step  two:  Why  not  extend  such  analysis  of  proverbs  to 
encompass  the  whole  field  of  literature?  Could  the  most 
complex  and  sophisticated  works  of  art  legitimately  be  con- 
sidered somewhat  as  "proverbs  writ  large"?  Such  leads,  if 
held  admissible,  should  help  us  to  discover  important  facts 
about  literary  organization  (thus  satisfying  the  requirements 
of  technical  criticism).  And  the  kind  of  observation  from 
this  perspective  should  apply  beyond  literature  to  life  in 
general  (thus  helping  to  take  literature  out  of  its  separate 
bin  and  give  it  a  place  in  a  general  "sociological"  picture). 

The  point  of  view  might  be  phrased  in  this  way:  Proverbs 
are  strategies  for  dealing  with  situations.  In  so  far  as  situa- 
29G 


EQUIPMENT    FOR    LIVING 

tions  are  typical  and  recurrent  in  a  given  social  structure, 
people  develop  names  for  them  and  strategies  for  handling 
them.  Another  name  for  strategies  might  be  attitudes. 

People  have  often  commented  on  the  fact  that  there  are 
contrary  proverbs.  But  I  believe  that  the  above  approach 
to  proverbs  suggests  a  necessary  modification  of  that  com- 
ment. The  apparent  contradictions  depend  upon  differences 
in  attitude,  involving  a  correspondingly  different  choice  of 
strategy.  Consider,  for  instance,  the  apparently  opposite  pair: 
"Repentance  comes  too  late"  and  "Never  too  late  to  mend." 
The  first  is  admonitory.  It  says  in  effect:  "You'd  better  look 
out,  or  you'll  get  yourself  too  far  into  this  business."  The 
second  is  consolatory,  saying  in  effect:  "Buck  up,  old  man, 
you  can  still  pull  out  of  this." 

Some  critics  have  quarreled  with  me  about  my  selection 
of  the  word  "strategy"  as  the  name  for  this  process.  I  have 
asked  them  to  suggest  an  alternative  term,  so  far  without 
profit.  The  only  one  I  can  think  of  is  "method."  But  if 
"strategy"  errs  in  suggesting  to  some  people  an  overly  con- 
scious procedure,  "method"  errs  in  suggesting  an  overly 
"methodical"  one.  Anyhow,  let's  look  at  the  documents: 

Concise  Oxford  Dictionary:  "Strategy:  Movement  of  an 
army  or  armies  in  a  compaign,  art  of  so  moving  or  disposing 
troops  or  ships  as  to  impose  upon  the  enemy  the  place  and 
time  and  conditions  for  fighting  preferred  by  oneself"  (from 
a  Greek  word  that  refers  to  the  leading  of  an  army). 

New  English  Dictionary :  "Strategy:  The  art  of  projecting 
and  directing  the  larger  military  movements  and  operations 
of  a  campaign." 

Andre  Cheron,  Traite  Complet  d'Echecs:  "On  entend 
par  strategic  les  manoeuvres  qui  ont  pour  but  la  sortie  et  le 
bon  arrangement  des  pieces." 

297 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

Looking  at  these  definitions,  I  gain  courage!  For  surely, 
the  most  highly  alembicated  and  sophisticated  work  of  art, 
arising  in  complex  civilizations,  could  be  considered  as  de- 
signed to  organize  and  command  the  army  of  one's  thoughts 
and  images,  and  to  so  organize  them  that  one  "imposes 
upon  the  enemy  the  time  and  place  and  conditions  for 
fighting  preferred  by  oneself. "^jOne  seeks  to  "direct  the 
larger  movements  and  operations"  in  one's  campaign  of  liv- 
ing. One  "maneuvers,"  and  the  maneuvering  is  an  "art." 

Are  not  the  final  results  one's  "strategy"?  One  tries,  as  far 
as  possible,  to  develop  a  strategy  whereby  one  "can't  lose." 
One  tries  to  change  the  rules  of  the  game  until  they  fit  his 
own  necessities.  Does  the  artist  encounter  disaster?  He  will 
"make  capital"  of  it.  If  one  is  a  victim  of  competition,  for 
instance,  if  one  is  elbowed  out,  if  one  is  willy-nilly  more 
jockeyed  against  than  jockeying,  one  can  by  the  solace  and 
vengeance  of  art  convert  this  very  "liability"  into  an  "asset." 
One  tries  to  fight  on  his  own  terms,  developing  a  strategy 
for  imposing  the  proper  "time,  place,  and  conditions." 

But  one  must  also,  to  develop  a  full  strategy,  be  realistic. 
One  must  size  things  up  properly.  One  cannot  accurately 
know  how  things  will  be,  what  is  promising  and  what  is 
menacing,  unless  he  accurately  knows  how  things  are.  So 
the  wise  strategist  will  not  be  content  with  strategies  of 
merely  a  self-gratifying  sort.  He  will  "keep  his  weather  eye 
open."  He  will  not  too  eagerly  "read  into"  a  scene  an  atti- 
tude that  is  irrelevant  to  it.  He  won't  sit  on  the  side  of  an 
active  volcano  and  "see"  it  as  a  dormant  plain. 

Often,  alas,  he  will.  The  great  allurement  in  our  present 
popular  "inspirational  literature,"  for  instance,  may  be 
largely  of  this  sort.  It  is  a  strategy  for  easy  consolation.  It 
"fills  a  need,"  since  there  is  always  a  need  for  easy  consola- 
298 


EQUIPMENT    FOR    LIVING 

tion — and  in  an  era  of  confusion  like  our  own  the  need  is 
especially  keen.  So  people  are  only  too  willing  to  "meet  a 
man  halfway"  who  will  play  down  the  realistic  naming  of 
our  situation  and  play  up  such  strategies  as  make  solace 
cheap.  However,  I  should  propose  a  reservation  here.  We 
usually  take  it  for  granted  that  people  who  consume  our 
current  output  of  books  on  "How  to  Buy  Friends  and  Bam- 
boozle Oneself  and  Other  People"  are  reading  as  students 
who  will  attempt  applying  the  recipes  given.  Nothing  of  the 
sort.  The  reading  of  a  book  on  the  attaining  of  success  is 
in  itself  the  symbolic  attaining  of  that  success.  It  is  while 
they  read  that  these  readers  are  "succeeding."  I'll  wager 
that,  in  by  far  the  great  majority  of  cases,  such  readers  make 
no  serious  attempt  to  apply  the  book's  recipes.  The  lure  of 
the  book  resides  in  the  fact  that  the  reader,  while  reading  it, 
is  then  living  in  the  aura  of  success.  What  he  wants  is  easy 
success;  and  he  gets  it  in  symbolic  form  by  the  mere  reading 
itself.  To  attempt  applying  such  stuff  in  real  life  would  be 
very  difficult,  full  of  many  disillusioning  difficulties. 

Sometimes  a  different  strategy  may  arise.  The  author  may 
remain  realistic,  avoiding  too  easy  a  form  of  solace — yet  he 
may  get  as  far  off  the  track  in  his  own  way.  Forgetting  that 
realism  is  an  aspect  for  foretelling,  he  may  take  it  as  an  end 
in  itself.  He  is  tempted  to  do  this  by  two  factors:  (1)  an 
ill-digested  philosophy  of  science,  leading  him  mistakenly 
to  assume  that  "relentless"  naturalistic  "truthfulness"  is  a 
proper  end  in  itself,  and  (2)  a  merely  competitive  desire  to 
outstrip  other  writers  by  being  "more  realistic"  than  they. 
Works  thus  made  "efficient"  by  tests  of  competition  internal 
to  the  book  trade  are  a  kind  of  academicism  not  so  named 
(the  writer  usually  thinks  of  it  as  the  opposite  of  academi- 
cism). Realism  thus  stepped  up  competitively  might  be  dis- 

299 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
tinguished  from  the  proper  sort  by  the  name  of  "natural- 
ism." As  a  way  of  "sizing  things  up,"  the  naturalistic  tradi- 
tion tends  to  become  as  inaccurate  as  the  "inspirational" 
strategy,  though  at  the  opposite  extreme. 

Anyhow,  the  main  point  is  this:  A  work  like  Madame 
Bovary  (or  its  homely  American  translation,  Babbitt)  is  the 
strategic  naming  of  a  situation.  It  singles  out  a  pattern  of 
experience  that  is  sufficiently  representative  of  our  social 
structure,  that  recurs  sufficiently  often  mutandis  mutatis, 
for  people  to  "need  a  word  for  it"  and  to  adopt  an  attitude 
towards  it.  Each  work  of  art  is  the  addition  of  a  word  to  an 
informal  dictionary  (or,  in  the  case  of  purely  derivative 
artists,  the  addition  of  a  subsidiary  meaning  to  a  word  al- 
ready given  by  some  originating  artist).  As  for  Madame 
Bovary,  the  French  critic  Jules  de  Gaultier  proposed  to  add 
it  to  our  formal  dictionary  by  coining  the  word  "Bovar- 
ysme"  and  writing  a  whole  book  to  say  what  he  meant  by  it. 

Mencken's  book  on  The  American  Language,  I  hate  to 
say,  is  splendid.  I  console  myself  with  the  reminder  that 
Mencken  didn't  write  it.  Many  millions  of  people  wrote  it, 
and  Mencken  was  merely  the  amanuensis  who  took  it  down 
from  their  dictation.  He  found  a  true  "vehicle"  (that  is,  a 
book  that  could  be  greater  than  the  author  who  wrote  it). 
He  gets  the  royalties,  but  the  job  was  done  by  a  collectivity. 
As  you  read  that  book,  you  see  a  people  who  were  up  against 
a  new  set  of  typical  recurrent  situations,  situations  typical  of 
their  business,  their  politics,  their  criminal  organizations, 
their  sports.  Either  there  were  no  words  for  these  in  stand- 
ard English,  or  people  didn't  know  them,  or  they  didn't 
"sound  right."  So  a  new  vocabulary  arose,  to  "give  us  a 
word  for  it."  I  see  no  reason  for  believing  that  Americans 
are  unusually  fertile  in  word-coinage.  American  slang  was 
300 


EQUIPMENT    FOR    LIVING 

not  developed  out  of  some  exceptional  gift.  It  was  developed 
out  of  the  fact  that  new  typical  situations  had  arisen  and 
people  needed  names  for  them.  They  had  to  "size  things 
up."  They  had  to  console  and  strike,  to  promise  and  ad- 
monish. They  had  to  describe  for  purposes  of  forecasting. 
And  "slang"  was  the  result.  It  is,  by  this  analysis,  simply 
proverbs  not  so  named,  a  kind  of  "folk  criticism." 


With  what,  then,  would  "sociological  criticism"  along 
these  lines  be  concerned?  It  would  seek  to  codify  the  various 
strategies  which  artists  have  developed  with  relation  to  the 
naming  of  situations.  In  a  sense,  much  of  it  would  even  be 
"timeless,"  for  many  of  the  "typical,  recurrent  situations" 
are  not  peculiar  to  our  own  civilization  at  all.  The  situations 
and  strategies  framed  in  Aesop's  Fables,  for  instance,  apply 
to  human  relations  now  just  as  fully  as  they  applied  in 
ancient  Greece.  They  are,  like  philosophy,  sufficiently  "gen- 
eralized" to  extend  far  beyond  the  particular  combination 
of  events  named  by  them  in  any  one  instance.  They  name 
an  "essence."  Or,  as  Korzybski  might  say,  they  are  on  a 
"high  level  of  abstraction."  One  doesn't  usually  think  of 
them  as  "abstract,"  since  they  are  usually  so  concrete  in 
their  stylistic  expression.  But  they  invariably  aim  to  discern 
the  "general  behind  the  particular"  (which  would  suggest 
that  they  are  good  Goethe). 

The  attempt  to  treat  literature  from  the  standpoint  of 
situations  and  strategies  suggests  a  variant  of  Spengler's  no- 
tion of  the  "contemporaneous."  By  "contemporaneity"  he 
meant  corresponding  stages  of  different  cultures.  For  in- 
stance, if  modern  New  York  is  much  like  decadent  Rome, 
then  we  are  "contemporaneous"  with  decadent  Rome,  or 
301 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

with  some  corresponding  decadent  city  among  the  Mayas, 
etc.  It  is  in  this  sense  that  situations  are  "timeless,"  "non- 
historical,"  "contemporaneous."  A  given  human  relation- 
ship may  be  at  one  time  named  in  terms  of  foxes  and  lions, 
if  there  are  foxes  and  lions  about;  or  it  may  now  be  named 
in  terms  of  salesmanship,  advertising,  the  tactics  of  poli- 
ticians, etc.  But  beneath  the  change  in  particulars,  we  may 
often  discern  the  naming  of  the  one  situation. 

So  sociological  criticism,  as  here  understood,  would  seek 
to  assemble  and  codify  this  lore.  It  might  occasionally  lead 
us  to  outrage  good  taste,  as  we  sometimes  found  exemplified 
in  some  great  sermon  or  tragedy  or  abstruse  work  of  philos- 
ophy the  same  strategy  as  we  found  exemplified  in  a  dirty 
joke.  At  this  point,  we'd  put  the  sermon  and  the  dirty  joke 
together,  thus  "grouping  by  situation"  and  showing  the 
range  of  possible  particularizations.  In  his  exceptionally 
discerning  essay,  "A  Critic's  Job  of  Work,"  R.  P.  Blackmur 
says,  "I  think  on  the  whole  his  (Burke's)  method  could  be 
applied  with  equal  fruitfulness  to  Shakespeare,  Dashiell 
Hammett,  or  Marie  Corelli."  When  I  got  through  wincing, 
I  had  to  admit  that  Blackmur  was  right.  This  article  is  an 
attempt  to  say  for  the  method  what  can  be  said.  As  a  matter 
of  fact,  I'll  go  a  step  further  and  maintain:  You  can't  prop- 
erly put  Marie  Corelli  and  Shakespeare  apart  until  you 
have  first  put  them  together.  First  genus,  then  differentia. 
The  strategy  in  common  is  the  genus.  The  range  or  scale 
or  spectrum  of  particularizations  is  the  differentia. 

Anyhow,  that's  what  I'm  driving  at.  And  that's  why  re- 
viewers sometime  find  in  my  work  "intuitive"  leaps  that  are 
dubious  as  "science."  They  are  not  "leaps"  at  all.  They  are 
classifications,  groupings,  made  on  the  basis  of  some  stra- 
tegic element  common   to  the   items  grouped.   They  are 

3°2 


EQUIPMENT    FOR    LIVING 

neither  more  nor  less  "intuitive"  than  any  grouping  or 
classification  of  social  events.  Apples  can  be  grouped  with 
bananas  as  fruits,  and  they  can  be  grouped  with  tennis  balls 
as  round.  I  am  simply  proposing,  in  the  social  sphere,  a 
method  of  classification  with  reference  to  strategies. 

The  method  has  these  things  to  be  said  in  its  favor:  It 
gives  definite  insight  into  the  organization  of  literary  works; 
and  it  automatically  breaks  down  the  barriers  erected  about 
literature  as  a  specialized  pursuit.  People  can  classify  novels 
by  reference  to  three  kinds,  eight  kinds,  seventeen  kinds.  It 
doesn't  matter.  Students  patiently  copy  down  the  professor's 
classification  and  pass  examinations  on  it,  because  the  range 
of  possible  academic  classifications  is  endless.  Sociological 
classification,  as  herein  suggested,  would  derive  its  relevance 
from  the  fact  that  it  should  apply  both  to  works  of  art  and 
to  social  situations  outside  of  art. 

It  would,  I  admit,  violate  current  pieties,  break  down 
current  categories,  and  thereby  "outrage  good  taste."  But 
"good  taste"  has  become  inert.  The  classifications  I  am  pro- 
posing would  be  active.  I  think  that  what  we  need  is  active 
categories. 

These  categories  will  lie  on  the  bias  across  the  categories 
of  modern  specialization.  The  new  alignment  will  outrage 
in  particular  those  persons  who  take  the  division  of  faculties 
in  our  universities  to  be  an  exact  replica  of  the  way  in  which 
God  himself  divided  up  the  universe.  We  have  had  the  Phi- 
losophy of  the  Being;  and  we  have  had  the  Philosophy  of  the 
Becoming.  In  contemporary  specialization,  we  have  been 
getting  the  Philosophy  of  the  Bin.  Each  of  these  mental 
localities  has  had  its  own  peculiar  way  of  life,  its  own  values, 
even  its  own  special  idiom  for  seeing,  thinking,  and  "prov- 
ing." Among  other  things,  a  sociological  approach  should 

303 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

attempt  to  provide  a  reintegrative  point  of  view,  a  broader 
empire  of  investigation  encompassing  the  lot. 

What  would  such  sociological  categories  be  like?  They 
would  consider  works  of  art,  I  think,  as  strategies  for  select- 
ing enemies  and  allies,  for  socializing  losses,  for  warding  off 
evil  eye,  for  purification,  propitiation,  and  desanctification, 
consolation  and  vengeance,  admonition  and  exhortation, 
implicit  commands  or  instructions  of  one  sort  or  another. 
Art  forms  like  "tragedy"  or  "comedy"  or  "satire"  would  be 
treated  as  equipments  for  living,  that  size  up  situations  in 
various  ways  and  in  keeping  with  correspondingly  various 
attitudes.  The  typical  ingredients  of  such  forms  would 
be  sought.  Their  relation  to  typical  situations  would  be 
stressed.  Their  comparative  values  would  be  considered, 
with  the  intention  of  formulating  a  "strategy  of  strategies," 
the  "over-all"  strategy  obtained  by  inspection  of  the  lot. 


3°4 


TWELVE  PROPOSITIONS 

ON  THE  RELATION  BETWEEN 

ECONOMICS  AND  PSYCHOLOGY 


THE  following  propositions  briefly  state  the  approach  ex- 
emplified in  my  recent  work,  Attitudes  Toward  History. 
They  are  offered  as  a  reply  to  Margaret  Schlauch's  review  of 
the  work,  in  the  last  number  of  Science  if  Society.  They 
are  an  attempt  to  codify  my  ideas  on  the  relation  between 
psychology  and  Marxism. 

1.  The  basic  concept  for  uniting  economics  and  psy- 
chology ("Marx  and  Freud")  is  that  of  the  "symbols  of 
authority." 

Symbols  of  authority  are  obviously  related  to  economic 
categories,  because  of  their  connection  with  property  rights 
(ownership  of  productive  resources),  with  educative,  legis- 
lative and  constabulary  bodies,  and  with  the  guidance  of  a 
society's  practices.  Symbols  of  authority  are  related  to  psy- 
chological categories,  because  of  their  tie-up  with  morals, 
laws,  social  relationships,  etc.;  they  overlap  upon  both  politi- 
cal and  intimate  responses  because  they  usually  involve  such 
figures  as  parents,  doctor,  nurse  in  the  "pre-political"  period 
of  childhood,  and  such  figures  as  boss  or  foreman  or  em- 
ployer in  commercial  relationships. 

2.  The  two  basic  dichotomous  attitudes  toward  reigning 
symbols  of  authority  are  those  of  acceptance  and  rejection 
{with  intermediate  gradations,  such  as  are  to  be  found  when 

3°5 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

any  flat  logical  distinction  is  translated  into  the  field  of 
psychology). 

The  attitude  of  acceptance  is  the  most  desirable  way  of 
"digesting"  one's  world.  But  the  attitude  of  rejection  is 
evoked  in  so  far  as  the  reigning  symbols  of  authority  repre- 
sent ideals  of  ownership  and  modes  of  economic  manage- 
ment inadequate  for  operating  the  means  of  production 
and  distribution.  By  reason  of  such  phenomena  as  "cultural 
lag,"  old  values  survive  from  periods  in  which  they  were  a 
relatively  adequate  structure  of  meanings  into  periods  when 
they  are  relatively  inadequate. 

3.  The  need  of  rejecting  the  reigning  symbols  of  authority 
is  synonymous  with  "alienation." 

"Alienation"  is  thus  also  a  concept  clearly  having  both 
economic  and  psychological  relevance.  An  increasing  num- 
ber of  people  become  alienated  by  material  dispossession. 
And  an  increasing  number  who  still  share  some  material  ad- 
vantages from  the  ailing  economic  structure  become  spirit- 
ually alienated  as  they  lose  faith  in  the  structure's  "reason- 
ableness." One  may  be  materially  or  spiritually  alienated,  or 
both. 

4.  The  purely  psychological  concept  for  treating  relations 
to  symbols  of  authority ,  possession  and  dispossession,  material 
and  spiritual  alienation,  faith  or  loss  of  faith  in  the  "reason- 
ableness" of  a  given  structure's  methods  and  purposes  and 
values,  is  that  of  "identity." 

The  individual's  identity  is  formed  by  reference  to  his 
membership  in  a  group.  In  the  feudal  structure,  for  instance, 
one  was  identified  mainly  by  his  membership  in  the  Catholic 
Church.  The  reigning  structure  of  authority  coordinated  this 
"corporate  identity"  with  his  identity  as  member  of  some 
economic  class  and  his  identity  in  a  family  collectivity.  With 
306 


TWELVE    PROPOSITIONS 

the  rise  of  the  bourgeoisie,  such  bases  of  identity  were  pro- 
gressively broken,  until  now  we  are  mainly  offered  identifi- 
cation by  membership  in  a  financial  corporation,  or  identifi- 
cation by  membership  in  a  political  corporation  seeking 
either  to  cement  or  to  destroy  the  business  forms  of  identity. 
The  business  identity  is  retained  in  the  "corporate  state"  and 
destroyed  in  the  socialist  state.  The  vagaries  of  transition 
were  revealed  particularly  in  the  vague,  footloose,  "poetic" 
identities  of  nineteenth-century  art,  Avith  its  many  variants 
of  the  "Aesthetic  Opposition." 

5.  In  this  complex  world,  one  is  never  a  member  of  merely 
one  "corporation."  The  individual  is  composed  of  many  "cor- 
porate identities."  Sometimes  they  are  concentric,  sometimes 
in  conflict. 

For  instance,  one  may  have  a  job  in  some  large  financial 
corporation,  while  at  the  same  time  being  a  member  of  a 
party  opposed  to  its  policies.  Or  one  may  be  identified  with  a 
general  body  of  thought  "oppositional"  in  quality,  while  at 
the  same  time  making  various  attempts  to  identify  himself 
with  some  specific  political  faction;  and  these  two  "identities" 
may  conflict  in  varying  degrees.  An  example  of  specious  con- 
centric identity  is  to  be  seen  in  the  businessman  who  iden- 
tifies himself  with  business  and  nation. 

6.  In  highly  transitional  eras,  requiring  shifts  in  allegiance 
to  the  symbols  of  authority  (the  rejection  of  an  authoritative 
structure  still  largely  accepted,  even  by  its  victims,  who  are 
educated  in  wrong  meanings  and  values  by  the  "priesthood" 
of  pulpit,  schools,  press,  radio  and  popular  art)  the  problems 
of  identity  become  crucial. 

Though  it  is  men's  natural  tendency  to  make  peace  with 
their  world,  to  "accept"  it,  they  are  forced  into  some  measure 
of  alienation  by  the  inadequacy  of  its  property  structure. 

307 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

Men  must  then  throw  off  old  and  deceptive  modes  of  identi- 
fication and  take  on  new  ones. 

7.  The  processes  of  change  of  identity  are  most  clearly  re- 
vealed by  analyzing  formal  works  of  art  and  applying  the  re- 
sults of  our  analysis  to  the  "informal  art  of  living"  in  general. 

Art  works,  owing  to  their  high  degree  of  articulateness,  are 
like  "meter  readings."  Here  all  the  implicit  social  processes 
become  explicit.  By  studying  them,  you  will  discern  what 
forms  "alienation"  takes  as  a  factor  in  human  experience,  and 
what  forms  likewise  arise  in  the  attempt  to  combat  alienation 
(to  "repossess"  one's  world). 

8.  Identity  itself  is  a  "mystification."  Hence,  resenting  its 
many  labyrinthine  aspects,  we  tend  to  call  even  the  study  of 
it  a  "mystification" 

The  response  would  be  analogous  to  the  response  of  those 
who,  suffering  from  an  illness,  get  "relief"  by  quarreling 
with  their  doctors.  Unless  Marxists  are  ready  to  deny  Marx 
by  attacking  his  term  "alienation"  itself,  they  must  permit  of 
research  into  the  nature  of  alienation  and  into  the  nature  of 
attempts,  adequate  and  inadequate,  to  combat  alienation. 

9.  The  analysis  of  the  "strategies"  by  which  men  respond 
to  the  factor  of  alienation  and  by  which  they  attempt  to  re- 
possess their  world  could  not  be  conducted  without  tremen- 
dous "wastage  of  time  and  energy,  if  a  writer  were  required, 
at  every  point,  to  stop  and  demonstrate  the  specific  bearing 
of  his  analysis  upon  such  matters  as  food,  jobs,  etc. 

For  one  thing,  the  relationships,  so  analyzed,  would  often 
be  totally  unreal  (particularly  since  many  of  those  symboliz- 
ing alienation  are  not  materially  alienated  to  any  extreme 
degree).  Further:  the  objective  factors  giving  rise  to  a  code  of 
moral  and  aesthetic  values  are,  of  course,  economic.  They  are 
the  "substructure"  that  supports  the  ideological  "superstruc- 
308 


TWELVE    PROPOSITIONS 

ture."  But  the  objective  materials  utilized  by  an  individual 
writer  are  largely  the  moral  and  aesthetic  values  themselves. 
For  instance,  new  methods  of  production  gave  rise  to  the 
change  from  feudal  to  bourgeois  values.  But  Shakespeare's 
strategy  as  a  dramatist  was  formed  by  relation  to  this  conflict 
between  feudal  and  bourgeois  values.  This  "superstructural" 
material  was  the  objective,  social  material  he  manipulated  in 
eliciting  his  audience's  response.  Economic  factors  gave  rise 
to  the  transition  in  values,  but  he  dealt  with  the  transition 
in  values. 

Or  another  example:  Modern  conditions  of  distribution  by 
sale  put  a  social  value  on  the  pushing,  breezy,  aggressive  type 
of  salesman.  And  since  this  "psychosis"  is  thus  established  as 
a  social  form,  the  dramatist  may  appeal  (as  is  often  the  case  in 
our  popular  motion  pictures)  by  "idealizing"  a  character  who 
is  in  general  the  "live  wire"  type. 

In  sum,  economic  conditions  give  form  to  the  values;  and 
these  values,  having  arisen,  form  "objective  material"  with 
which  the  artist  works  in  constructing  symbols  that  appeal. 

10.  "Style"  is  an  aspect  of  identification. 

Even  a  materially  dispossessed  individual  may  "own"  privi- 
lege vicariously  by  adopting  the  "style"  (or  "insignia")  of 
some  privileged  class.  Thus  did  typical  poets  of  the  age  of 
Pope  vicariously  own  the  privileges  of  the  squirearchy,  by 
embodying  in  style  the  ideals  that  the  squirearchy  ap- 
proved of. 

Consideration  of  such  "symbolic  boasting"  offers  an  ex- 
cellent instance  in  support  of  our  contention  that  the  analysis 
of  aesthetic  phenomena  can  be  extended  or  projected  into  the 
analysis  of  social  and  political  phenomena  in  general.  We  see 
a  petty  clerk,  for  instance,  who  can  "identify"  himself  either 
by  "owning  the  style"  of  the  workers  or  by  "owning  the  style" 

3°9 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

of  his  boss.  The  boss's  style  often  appeals  the  more  strongly, 
because  it  symbolically  promises  him  advancement;  and  in 
this  mere  symbolic  promise  he  locates  his  notions  of  purpose, 
of  his  society's  "reasonableness,"  etc.  The  boss  is  his  "symbol 
of  authority,"  related  to  his  own  notions  of  economic  interest. 
Such  a  "style"  may  be  totally  deceptive.  Such  "identification" 
may  get  him  no  advancement  whatever.  But  he  may  continue, 
through  it,  to  get  advancement  vicariously,  by  merely  "own- 
ing the  insignia"  of  his  boss.  Such  a  man  must  change  his 
identity  if  he  would  locate  himself  not  by  reference  to  his 
employers'  "corporation,"  but  by  incorporation  in  a  fellow- 
ship of  employees.  Our  "proletarian"  school  of  writers  is,  of 
course,  attempting  to  coach  a  stylistic  shift  of  this  sort. 

One  may  note  another  variant  of  "stylistic"  identification 
when  the  immigrant,  rich  in  gesture  speech,  seeks  to  "pos- 
sess" the  insignia  of  middle-class  status  in  the  most  para- 
doxical way  imaginable:  by  learning  deliberately  to  cramp 
the  expressiveness  of  the  body,  suppressing  marked  gesticula- 
tion and  range  of  voice.  For  the  kind  of  citizens  with  whose 
privileges  he  would  seek  to  identify  himself  (in  keeping  with 
the  natural  human  desire  to  "belong"  by  accommodating 
oneself  to  the  reigning  authoritative  structure)  are  inexpres- 
sive in  the  language  of  gesture  mainly  because  they  have  so 
little  to  express  in  any  language,  and  have  been  sedentary  too 
long.  So  the  insignia  here  acquired  "stylistically"  are  hardly 
more  than  the  laborious  attainment  of  zero. 

11.  Human  relations  should  be  analyzed  with  respect  to 
the  leads  discovered  by  a  study  of  drama. 

Men  enact  roles.  They  change  roles.  They  participate. 
They  develop  modes  of  social  appeal.  Even  a  "star"  is  but  a 
function  of  the  total  cast.  Politics  above  all  is  drama.  Anyone 
310 


TWELVE    PROPOSITIONS 

who  would  turn  from  politics  to  some  other  emphasis,  or  vice 
versa,  must  undergo  some  change  of  identity,  which  is  dra- 
matic (involving  "style"  and  "ritual").  People  are  neither 
animals  nor  machines  (to  be  analyzed  by  the  migration  of 
metaphors  from  biology  or  mechanics),  but  actors  and  acters. 
They  establish  identity  by  relation  to  groups  (with  the  result 
that,  when  tested  by  individualistic  concepts  of  identity,  they 
are  felt  to  be  moved  by  "deceptions"  or  "illusions,"  the  "ir- 
rational"— for  one's  identification  as  a  member  of  a  group  is 
a  role,  yet  it  is  the  only  active  mode  of  identification  possible, 
as  you  will  note  by  observing  how  all  individualistic  concepts 
of  identity  dissolve  into  the  nothingness  of  mysticism  and  the 
absolute).  If  you  would  avoid  the  antitheses  of  supernatural- 
ism  and  naturalism,  you  must  develop  the  coordinates  of  so- 
cialism— which  gets  us  to  cooperation,  participation,  man  in 
society,  man  in  drama. 

Both  Freud  and  Marx  were  "impresarios."  Marx's  concept 
of  the  "classless"  stage  following  a  maximum  intensification 
of  class  conflict  is  precisely  in  line  with  the  Aristotelian  recipe 
for  the  process  of  dramatic  "catharsis."  The  shock  value  of 
Freudian  analysis  exemplified  the  same  process  in  tiny  "closet 
dramas"  of  private  life  (the  facing  and  burning-out  of  con- 
flict). Forms  like  the  lyric  (to  employ  an  excellent  word  used 
by  Ben  Belitt  in  a  recent  number  of  Poetry)  are  analyzable 
as  "monodrama." 

The  value,  the  normative  basis  of  reference,  proper  to  this 
approach  is  "communication."  It  is  "hortatory"  in  that  it  im- 
plicitly postulates  communication  as  a  good.  It  is  "diagnostic" 
in  that  it  invites  us  to  note  the  psychological  and  material 
factors  furthering  communication  (the  cooperative  act)  and 
psychological  and  material  factors  obstructing  communica- 

3*1 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
tion  (the  competitive  act).  The  corresponding  abstract  ideal 
might  be  sloganized  ethically  (in  terms  of  combined  op- 
posites)  as:  "Unity  without  Conformity." 

12.  The  difference  between  the  symbolic  drama  and  the 
drama  of  living  is  a  difference  betioeen  imaginary  obstacles 
and  real  obstacles.  But:  the  imaginary  obstacles  of  symbolic 
drama  must,  to  have  the  relevance  necessary  for  the  produc- 
ing of  effects  upon  audiences,  reflect  the  real  obstacles  of 
living  drama. 

Modes  of  cooperation  (production  and  distribution)  give 
form  to  modes  of  communication.  The  modes  of  communica- 
tion thus  refer  back  to  the  modes  of  cooperation.  Much  "sym- 
bolic action"  in  works  of  art  deals  with  conflicts  within  the 
communicative  or  superstructural  realm  (conflicts  among  so- 
cial values) — but  these  conflicts  have  their  grounding  in  eco- 
nomic conflicts  (as  the  clashes  in  Congress  represent  corre- 
sponding clashes  among  business  interests). 

To  an  extent,  also,  they  arise  from  the  fact  that  men  cannot 
be  a  complete  fit  for  any  historical  texture  (which  necessarily 
encourages  some  possibilities  and  discourages  others).  Hence, 
to  some  degree,  solution  of  conflict  must  always  be  done 
purely  in  the  symbolic  realm  (by  "transcendence")  if  it  is  to 
be  done  at  all.  Persons  of  moral  and  imaginative  depth  ac- 
quire great  enterprise  and  resourcefulness  in  such  purely 
"symbolic"  solutions  of  conflict  (by  the  formation  of  appro- 
priate "attitudes").  Hence,  at  times  they  try  to  solve  symboli- 
cally kinds  of  conflict  that  can  and  should  be  solved  by  ma- 
terial means.  A  writer  who  has  invested  deeply  in  symbolic 
resourcefulness  is  threatened  with  a  kind  of  "psychological 
unemployment"  ("alienation")  when  his  structure  of  mean- 
ings invites  him  to  "solve"  by  symbolism  alone  a  conflict  re- 
quiring material  solution. 


TWELVE    PROPOSITIONS 

It  is  of  great  importance  to  study  the  various  strategies  of 
"prayer"  by  which  men  seek  to  solve  their  conflicts,  since 
such  material  should  give  us  needed  insight  into  the  proces- 
ses of  prayer  ("symbolic  action,"  "linguistic  action,"  "im- 
plicit commands  to  audience  and  self")  in  its  many  secular 
aspects,  not  generally  considered  "prayer"  at  all.  Such  in- 
sight should  make  precise  the  nature  of  the  resistance  en- 
countered by  those  interested  in  engineering  shifts  in  al- 
legiance to  the  reigning  symbols  of  authority. 

And  it  should  offer  a  ground  in  common  between  propa- 
gandizer  and  propagandized,  whereby  the  maximum  amount 
of  readjustment  could  be  accomplished  through  the  "parlia- 
mentary" (discourse,  discussion).  That  is:  it  should  avoid  the 
coaching  of  unnecessary  factional  dispute  by  considering 
modes  of  response  applicable  to  all  men  and  it  could  confine 
differences  solely  to  those  areas  where  differences  are  neces- 
sary. Such  procedure  is  especially  to  be  desired  in  the  propa- 
gandist, since  humaneness  is  the  soundest  implement  of  per- 
suasion. For  it  contributes  towards  the  general  humanization 
of  policies,  even  should  bad  policies  prevail. 


313 


THE  NATURE  OF  ART 
UNDER  CAPITALISM 


THE  present  article  proposes  to  say  something  further  on 
the  subject  of  art  and  propaganda.  It  will  attempt  to  set  forth 
a  line  of  reasoning  as  to  why  the  contemporary  emphasis 
must  be  placed  largely  upon  propaganda,  rather  than  upon 
"pure"  art.  The  general  procedure  to  be  followed  is:  (a)  some 
basic  considerations  as  to  the  relation  between  work  and 
ethics  are  offered;  (b)  the  attempt  is  made  to  show  that  this 
integral  relationship  between  work  and  ethics  is  violated 
under  capitalism;  (c)  by  reference  to  the  psychology  of  art, 
and  to  the  connection  between  art  and  ethics,  I  attempt  to 
show  why  the  breach  between  work  and  ethics,  indigenous 
to  capitalistic  enterprise,  requires  a  "corrective"  kind  of  lit- 
erature. The  article  is  in  the  form  of  seven  propositions,  with 
a  brief  demonstration  of  each. 

1.  Work-patterns  and  ethical  patterns  are  integrally  re- 
lated. 

The  teachings  of  naturalism  and  religion  seem  united 
on  this  point.  The  great  monastic  orders  were  invariably 
founded  upon  a  scheme  of  practical  duties.  "Virtue,"  how- 
ever far  into  the  infinite  it  might  range,  was  always  grounded 
upon  the  performance  of  specific  earthly  tasks.  In  India  the 
four  castes  seem  to  be  corruptions  of  four  original  occupa- 
tional patterns,  four  kinds  of  duties  or  obligations  having  de- 
cayed into  distinct  categories  of  privilege  and  privation.  Duty, 

3*4 


ART    UNDER    CAPITALISM 

or  social  function,  was  the  synthesis  out  of  which  the  two 
decadent  antitheses,  privilege  and  privation,  have  arisen.  The 
fervor  with  which  religions  extolled  the  "sweat  of  the  brow" 
was  even  so  convincing  to  the  general  populace  that  it  served 
admirably  as  a  method  of  preemption  by  the  cunning,  who 
could  harness  this  deep  piety  for  their  private  ends.  Finding 
people  ethically  prepared  to  respect  themselves  and  one  an- 
other for  their  toiling,  the  cunning  could  manipulate  this 
obedience  for  individual  gain.  Yet  the  fact  remains  that  the 
"exploited"  often  seem  to  have  had  a  better  time  of  it  than 
the  "exploiter,"  for  to  be  ethical  is  a  deeply  contenting  thing. 
This  may  in  part  explain  the  fact  that  so  much  genuine  folk 
culture  has  arisen  out  of  unfair  circumstances — or  that  it  is 
precisely  the  descendants  of  slaves  who,  as  a  race  in  America, 
have  been  most  given  to  song. 

In  its  secular  trappings,  the  respect  for  the  ethics  of  work 
may  be  seen  in  the  American's  deep  devotion  to  his  business, 
or  in  the  Marxian  cult  of  the  proletariat  as  the  bearer  of  the 
new  ethics.  Again,  we  have  such  notions  as  John  Dewey's 
concept  of  the  "occupational  psychosis,"  his  thesis  that  a 
society's  patterns  of  thought  are  shaped  by  the  patterns  of 
livelihood,  that  "spiritual"  values  get  their  authority  because 
they  reinforce  the  ways  of  thinking  and  feeling  by  which  man 
equips  himself  to  accomplish  the  tasks  indigenous  to  his  en- 
vironment. The  entire  Darwinian  point  of  view,  in  fact,  em- 
phasizes the  growth  of  moral  systems  out  of  practical  needs, 
the  ways  of  "survival,"  and  in  human  societies  these  ways  of 
survival  are  fundamentally  methods  of  producing  and  dis- 
tributing goods. 

Hence,  in  either  naturalistic  or  transcendental  thought  we 
find  the  same  tendency  to  accept  an  integral  relationship  be- 
tween work  and  ethics. 

315 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

2.  The  ethical  values  of  work  are  in  its  application  of  the 
competitive  equipment  to  cooperative  ends. 

Recall  the  symbol  of  the  "Village  Blacksmith."  What  is 
so  "ennobling"  about  this  man?  Or  Whitman's  symbol  of  the 
broad-ax.  It  is  in  the  fact  that  the  basically  destructive  equip- 
ment, the  military  weapons  of  the  body,  are  here  used  not  to 
plague  mankind  but  in  social  service.  Such  figures  are  "ethi- 
cal" because  they  represent  a  fusion  of  the  combative  and  the 
charitable.  By  work,  the  muscular  and  mental  endowments 
which  originally  made  for  survival  by  the  destruction  of 
competitors  are  turned  wholly  into  the  channels  of  the 
cooperative.  Work  thus  fuses  the  two  aspects  of  the  ethical: 
morals-as-implements,  or  morals-as-fists,  and  morals-as-social- 
cohesion.  In  the  psychology  of  service  the  individually  com- 
petitive capacities  are  sublimated  into  a  cooperative  enter- 
prise. It  has  been  suggested  that  the  primitive  group  dance  is 
so  highly  satisfying  "ethically"  because  it  is  a  faithful  replica 
of  this  same  cooperative  fusion.  It  permits  a  gratifying 
amount  of  muscular  and  mental  self-assertion  to  the  individ- 
ual as  regards  his  own  particular  contribution  to  the  entire 
performance,  while  at  the  same  time  it  flatly  involves  him  in 
a  group  activity,  a  process  of  giving  and  receiving. 

3.  Under  capitalism  this  basic  integration  between  work- 
patterns  and  ethical  patterns  is  constantly  in  jeopardy,  and 
even  frequently  impossible. 

By  far  the  most  valuable  work  by  Thorstein  Veblen  was  his 
Theory  of  Business  Enterprise.  Here  he  reminds  us  that 
we  tend  to  take  "business"  and  "industry"  as  synonymous, 
whereas  they  are  fundamentally  distinct.  Throughout  the 
recent  depression  our  financial  Genghis  Khans  have  managed 
again  and  again  to  uphold  and  strengthen  this  confusion.  We 
316 


ART    UNDER    CAPITALISM 

must  worry  ourselves  as  to  "what  is  good  for  business,"  rather 
than  ask  the  more  fundamental  question,  "What  is  business 
good  for?"  And  the  trick  whereby  our  people  so  spontane- 
ously ask  themselves  the  first  of  these  questions  rather  than 
the  second  lies  precisely  in  the  capitalistic  assumption  that 
business  and  industry  are  synonymous.  Veblen  shows  that,  far 
from  being  synonymous,  they  can  often  be  radically  at  odds. 
It  is  considerations  of  business,  not  of  industry,  which  keep 
our  productive  plant  in  a  state  of  partial  paralysis  today. 

But  the  objection  to  capitalism  does  not  stop  at  the  inter- 
ference with  our  work-patterns,  and  the  consequent  decay  of 
morals  and  morale,  which  it  offers  in  times  of  depression.  The 
profit  motive  is  equally  suspect  under  conditions  of  pros- 
perity. By  its  emphasis  upon  the  competitive  aspect  of  work 
as  against  the  cooperative  aspect  of  work,  it  runs  counter  to 
the  very  conditions  by  which  the  combative  equipment  of 
man  is  made  ethical — or  social.  It  tends  to  leave  man's 
capacities  for  "force  and  fraud"  too  purely  capacities  for 
force  and  fraud.  Hence  it  is  no  accident  that  the  rack- 
eteer and  the  crooked  promoter-director  have  arisen  as 
the  culmination  of  our  business  philosophy.  ("You'd  do  the 
same  thing  if  you  were  in  his  place."  Imagine  trying  to  get 
a  morality  out  of  that!)  Racketeers  and  promoters  are  fre- 
quently put  forward  as  preying  upon  "legitimate  business," 
but  as  a  matter  of  fact  they  are  the  logical  conclusion  of  busi- 
ness's  failure  to  provide  adequate  charitable  outlets  for  the 
combative  man.  (The  tendency  has  usually  been  manifested 
compensatorily  in  the  "philanthropic"  activities  by  which 
the  predatory  frequently  attempt  to  convert  the  fruits  of 
their  conquests  back  into  social  services.  But  this  makes  two 
antithetical  stages  of  a  process  which  is  morally  sound  only 

317 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
when  it  is  synthetic.  It  is  not  moral  to  seize  and  give  back — 
it  is  moral  to  convert  the  act-of-seizure  itself  into  an  act  of 
public  benefit.) 

How  can  people  go  on  publishing  reports  as  to  the  many 
billions  of  dollars  a  year  which  racketeers  cost  "business" 
without  taking  the  next  obvious  step,  and  noting  how  many 
more  billions  of  dollars  a  year  "business"  costs  "industry"? 
And  how  can  they  fail  to  note  that  in  industry  alone  is  the 
competitive  ability,  the  muscle  and  mind  of  man,  given  a 
wholly  cooperative  fusion?  Business,  to  be  "moral,"  would 
be  nothing  more  or  less  than  the  distributive  end  of  industry. 
In  so  far  as  it  is  not  this,  it  is  vowed  to  a  fundamental  moral 
decay. 

The  church,  ever  acquiescent  to  the  advantages  of  the  hour 
despite  its  underlying  philosophy  of  the  Immutable,  has  of 
course  stressed  the  aspects  of  its  doctrine  which  seem  to  cor- 
roborate the  fabulous  acquisition  and  retention  of  private 
gain.  Hence  it  has  largely  been  the  naturalists,  the  scientific 
skeptics,  who  have  contributed  to  the  distrust  of  the  commer- 
cial ethic.  But  it  must  be  recalled  that  the  entire  commercial 
exaltation  was  developed  in  opposition  to  the  church's  deep- 
est teachings.  If  the  Communists  cared  to  do  so,  they  could 
find  many  astonishing  parallels  between  their  own  doctrines, 
which  come  at  the  end  of  the  commercial  upswing,  and  the 
church  doctrines,  which  began  to  pale  at  its  beginning.  And 
even  the  Rotarians  at  the  height  of  the  New  Era  felt  the  pro- 
found moral  need  of  a  cooperative  philosophy,  precisely  at 
the  time  when  the  drive  to  sell  one's  full  quota,  to  put  one's 
rival  agents  out  of  business,  was  at  its  psychotically  intensest. 
The  back-slapping  of  Babbitt  was  a  hollow  performance,  but 
it  represented  a  profoundly  honest  yearning.  It  attempted  to 
3,8 


ART    UNDER    CAPITALISM 

do  by  a  sheer  ritual  act,  after  hours,  what  one's  entire  efforts 
during  the  day  were  necessarily  straining  to  deny. 

4.  Such  a  frustration  of  the  combative-cooperative  fusion 
under  capitalism  is  a  grave  stimulus  to  wars. 

If  the  cooperative  genius  is  fundamentally  frustrated  or 
vitiated  in  civil  life,  men  are  still  "moral"  enough,  still  alive 
enough  to  the  feeling  that  in  working  together  lies  virtue, 
for  war  to  recommend  itself  to  them  in  its  best  guise.  War 
is  cultural.  It  does  promote  a  highly  cooperative  spirit.  The 
sharing  of  a  common  danger,  the  emphasis  upon  sacrifice, 
risk,  companionship,  the  strong  sense  of  being  in  a  unifying 
enterprise — all  these  qualities  are  highly  moral,  and  in  so 
far  as  the  conditions  of  capitalistic  peace  tend  to  inhibit  such 
expressions,  it  is  possible  that  the  thought  of  war  comes  as 
a  "purgation,"  a  "cleansing  by  fire."  If  the  function  of  work 
fuses  morals-as-implements  or  morals-as-fists  with  morals-as- 
social-cohesion,  this  same  fusion  is  performed  by  war.  Hence 
it  seems  natural  that  any  radical  impairment  of  this  fusion 
under  conditions  of  peace  would  instigate  the  search  for  a 
similar  fusion  in  war,  where  it  can  indeed  be  attained.  The 
non-professional  character  of  modern  war,  the  fact  that  the 
entire  populations,  even  unto  the  gentle  old  ladies,  contrib- 
ute so  avidly  to  its  maintenance,  would  seem  to  indicate 
that  it  does  satisfy  deep  emotional  need.  It  is  natural  that, 
when  the  cooperative  patterns  are  vitiated  in  peace,  the  mo- 
ment war  is  declared  it  is  found  to  be  an  "adequate"  emo- 
tional solution  to  the  difficulty,  since  it  promptly  brings  the 
cooperative  genius  to  the  fore.  Of  course  there  are  the  prof- 
iteers who  approach  the  entire  matter  from  the  standpoint 
of  their  private  gain.  But  I  doubt  whether  the  ghoulish  de- 
lights of  this  group  could  account  for  the  exaltation  of  the 

319 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

people  as  a  whole.  It  is  the  moral  side  of  war  which  draws 
them  to  it,  the  fact  that  it  brings  their  group  together,  if  only 
for  the  dismal  purpose  of  slaughtering  or  oppressing  a  com- 
mon foe. 

5.  "Pure"  art  tends  to  promote  a  state  of  acceptance. 

The  group  dance,  as  previously  described,  would  seem  to 
be  a  case  in  point.  It  carries  the  social  patterns  into  their 
corresponding  "imaginative"  pattern,  hence  tends  to  sub- 
stantiate or  corroborate  these  patterns.  The  aesthetic  act  here 
maintains  precisely  the  kind  of  thinking  and  feeling  and  be- 
having that  reinforces  the  communal  productive  and  distrib- 
utive act.  Or,  to  consider  the  question  of  tragedy,  we  may  ac- 
cept in  a  general  way  the  psychoanalytic  thesis,  backed  by 
such  critics  as  Aristotle,  that  the  tragedy  makes  for  a  state 
of  resignation,  or  acceptance.  By  the  psychoanalytic  thesis 
this  state  of  resignation  is  produced  through  fusing,  in  aes- 
thetic symbols,  mental  conflicts  which  cannot  be  fused  in  the 
practical  sphere.  The  maintaining  of  a  strict  family  pattern, 
for  instance,  gives  rise  to  certain  proscriptions  or  taboos 
which  conflict  with  desires  arising  out  of  the  same  pattern. 
One  could  not  practically  destroy  these  taboos  without  break- 
ing up  the  family  pattern.  Hence,  by  symbolic  fusion  in  trag- 
edy, an  ability  to  "accept  one's  fate"  is  established.  This,  in  a 
general  way,  is  the  explanation  of  the  "catharsis"  of  tragedy, 
which  is  the  essence  of  "pure"  art.  It  enables  us  to  "resign" 
ourselves  by  resolving  in  aesthetic  fusion  trends  or  yearnings 
not  resolvable  in  the  practical  sphere.  And  this  same  tend- 
ency to  promote  acceptance  is  to  be  seen  likewise  in  "pure" 
humor.  Pure  humor  is  not  protestant  but  acquiescent.  It  en- 
ables us  to  accept  our  dilemmas  by  belittlement,  by  "hu- 
manization."  A  good  humorist  does  not  want  to  "make  us  go 
out  and  do  something  about  it."  Rather,  he  makes  us  feel, 
320 


ART    UNDER    CAPITALISM 

"Well,  things  may  not  be  so  bad  after  all.  It  all  depends  on 
how  you  look  at  them." 

6.  "Pure"  art  is  safest  only  when  the  underlying  moral 
system  is  sound. 

Since  pure  art  makes  for  acceptance,  it  tends  to  become  a 
social  menace  in  so  far  as  it  assists  us  in  tolerating  the  in- 
tolerable. And  if  it  leads  us  to  a  state  of  acquiescence  at  a 
time  when  the  very  basis  of  moral  integration  is  in  question, 
we  get  a  paradox  whereby  the  soundest  adjunct  to  ethics,  the 
aesthetic,  threatens  to  uphold  an  unethical  condition.  For 
this  reason  it  seems  that  under  conditions  of  competitive 
capitalism  there  must  necessarily  be  a  large  corrective  or 
propaganda  element  in  art.  Art  cannot  safely  confine  itself 
to  merely  using  the  values  which  arise  out  of  a  given  social 
texture  and  integrating  their  conflicts,  as  the  soundest,  "pur- 
est" art  will  do.  It  must  have  a  definite  hortatory  function, 
an  element  of  suasion  or  inducement  of  the  educational  va- 
riety; it  must  be  partially  forensic.  Such  a  quality  we  con- 
sider to  be  the  essential  work  of  propaganda.  Hence  we  feel 
that  the  moral  breach  arising  out  of  capitalist  vitiation  of  the 
work-patterns  calls  for  a  propaganda  art.  And  incidentally, 
our  distinction  as  so  stated  should  make  it  apparent  that 
much  of  the  so-called  "pure"  art  of  the  nineteenth  century 
was  of  a  pronouncedly  propagandist  or  corrective  coloring. 
In  proportion  as  the  conditions  of  economic  warfare  grew 
in  intensity  throughout  the  "century  of  progress,"  and  the 
church  proper  gradually  adapted  its  doctrines  to  serve  merely 
the  protection  of  private  gain  and  the  upholding  of  manipu- 
lated law,  the  "priestly"  function  was  carried  on  by  the  "secu- 
lar" poets,  often  avowedly  agnostic. 

7.  Our  thesis  is  by  no  means  intended  to  imply  that 
"pure"  or  "acquiescent"  art  should  be  abandoned. 

321 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

There  are  two  kinds  of  "toleration."  Even  if  a  given  state 
of  affairs  is  found,  on  intellectualistic  grounds,  to  be  intoler- 
able, the  fact  remains  that  as  long  as  it  is  with  us  we  must 
more  or  less  contrive  to  "tolerate"  it.  Even  though  we  might 
prefer  to  alter  radically  the  present  structure  of  production 
and  distribution  through  the  profit  motive,  the  fact  remains 
that  we  cannot  so  alter  it  forthwith.  Hence,  along  with  our 
efforts  to  alter  it,  must  go  the  demand  for  an  imaginative 
equipment  that  helps  to  make  it  tolerable  while  it  lasts.  Much 
of  the  "pure"  or  "acquiescent"  art  of  today  serves  this  in- 
valuable psychological  end.  For  this  reason  the  great  popular 
comedians  or  handsome  movie  stars  are  rightly  the  idols  of 
the  people.  Likewise  the  literature  of  sentimentality,  how- 
ever annoying  and  self-deceptive  it  may  seem  to  the  hard- 
ened "intellectual,"  is  following  in  a  direction  basically  so 
sound  that  one  might  wish  more  of  our  pretentious  authors 
were  attempting  to  do  the  same  thing  more  pretentiously. 
On  the  other  hand,  much  of  the  harsh  literature  now  being 
turned  out  in  the  name  of  the  "proletariat"  seems  inadequate 
on  either  count.  It  is  questionable  as  propaganda,  since  it 
shows  us  so  little  of  the  qualities  in  mankind  worth  saving. 
And  it  is  questionable  as  "pure"  art,  since  by  substituting  a 
cult  of  disaster  for  a  cult  of  amenities  it  "promotes  our  ac- 
quiescence" to  sheer  dismalness.  Too  often,  alas,  it  serves  as 
a  mere  device  whereby  the  neuroses  of  the  decaying  bourgeois 
structure  are  simply  transferred  to  the  symbols  of  working- 
men.  Perhaps  more  of  Dickens  is  needed,  even  at  the  risk  of 
excessive  tearfulness. 


322 


READING  WHILE  YOU  RUN 

An  Exercise  in  Translation  from  English  into  English 


EVERY  once  in  a  while,  in  the  orthodox  press,  there  is  an 
article  in  which,  at  almost  every  step,  you  find  something  said 
one  way  and  must  read  it  another  way.  It  is  something  like 
the  "dramatic  irony"  of  classic  tragedy:  Some  character  in 
the  play  is  interpreting  the  signs  to  mean  plus,  but  the  audi- 
ence with  a  different  frame  of  reference  knows  that  the  signs 
should  be  interpreted  to  mean  minus.  Thus,  Oedipus  sees 
cause  for  boasting  in  the  very  disclosures  that,  as  the  audience 
realizes,  foretell  his  downfall. 

There  is  much  of  such  dramatic  irony  in  the  news — with 
the  highly  unpleasant  additional  fact  that  the  audience  who 
would  read  this  news  differently  than  it  is  written  is  itself 
implicated  in  the  threatened  debacle  of  capitalist  hubris. 

A  news  story  on  the  first  page  of  the  Herald  Tribune  seems 
to  me  especially  rich  in  dramatic  irony  of  this  disturbing  sort. 
Nearly  every  passage  requires  retranslation.  A  mass  of  inter- 
polations extensive  as  Das  Kapital  would  be  required  to  make 
the  job  complete.  I  here  merely  suggest  a  few  of  those  most 
obviously  called  for. 

My  purpose  is  to  illustrate  a  situation  that  we  understand 
in  a  general  way  but  do  not  always  note  in  the  particular,  to 
show  how  thoroughly  the  merest  commonplaces  of  language 
serve  to  confuse  the  criticism  of  capitalist  methods.  Propa- 
ganda? Capitalist  propaganda  is  so  ingrained  in  our  speech 
that  it  is  as  natural  as  breathing. 

323 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

Political  War 
Declared  by 
Industry  to 
Halt  New  Deal 

"Industry"  is  here  used  as  the  synonym  of  'big  business." 
Thus,  the  most  necessary  distinction  of  all  is  automatically 
obliterated  at  the  very  start.  By  using  "industry"  where  you 
mean  "big business,"  you  stack  the  cards  to  perfection.  People 
know  that  factories  have  to  be  managed;  and  by  using  "in- 
dustry" when  you  mean  "the  gatherers  of  excess  profits,"  you 
imply  that  factories  can  be  managed  only  by  adepts  in  the  art 
of  "legal"  shakedowns. 

Nation's  Manufacturers 
End  Convention  Ready 
to  Fight  for  a  Return 
to  "American  System" 

Same  device  at  work  in  the  use  of  the  word  "manufac- 
turers." It  is  a  vital  boon  to  capitalism — that  delicate  usage 
(graceful  and  tactful)  whereby  the  man  who  operates  a  manu- 
facturing machine  is  not  a  manufacturer  while  the  man  who 
does  not  operate  a  manufacturing  machine  but  juggles  the 
dividends  for  himself  and  his  kind  is  a  manufacturer.  The 
confusion  gains  additional  sanctification  by  being  put  for- 
ward as  an  essential  feature  of  America.  Implied  in  the  "Fight 
for  a  Return  to  'American  System'  "  there  is  some  such  argu- 
ment as  this:  If  you  are  wholesome,  you  love  your  country; 
your  country  is  capitalist;  therefore,  to  be  wholesome,  you 
must  love  capitalism.  The  form  looks  less  convincing  if  thus 
made  explicit,  since  it  can  so  easily  be  parodied:  If  you  are 

324 


READING    WHILE    YOU    RUN 

wholesome,  you  love  your  country;  your  country  has  slums; 

therefore,  to  be  wholesome,  you  must  love  slums. 

Platform  Calls  for 
Restoration  of  Gold 

The  emotional  pull  behind  the  shibboleth  of  gold  goes 
deep.  That  profound  worshiper  of  the  golden  calf,  Carter 
Glass,  will  be  singing  of  the  gold  standard  in  one  paragraph, 
and  in  the  next,  before  you  know  it,  he  is  talking  about  God. 
Gold  would  at  least  be  as  good  a  standard  as  wampum,  shells 
or  any  other  conventionalized  form  of  national  IOU  promis- 
ing a  man  goods  in  exchange  for  services.  But  by  devoutly 
plugging  for  the  standard  per  se,  without  examining  too 
closely  the  one-way  profit  system  that  makes  any  standard  of 
promises  to  pay  unworkable,  we  effectively  center  the  attack 
upon  a  symptom  and  ignore  the  ill  that  causes  the  symp- 
tom. 

Freedom  for  Enterprise 
Is  Demanded  as  Effort 
to  Balk  Dictatorship 
and  Collectivism  Gains 

Here  the  needs  for  translation  come  thick  and  fast.  First 
note  that  the  phrase  "freedom  for  enterprise"  is  an  effective 
variant  of  the  "industry-business"  identification.  If  "busi- 
ness" equals  "industry,"  then  "promoters"  become  the  same 
as  "managers,"  and  opportunity  for  excess  profits  is  thus  en- 
shrined as  "enterprise."  Now,  since  every  right-minded  per- 
son desires  freedom  for  enterprise,  Ave  are  subtly  invited  to 
salute  the  great  monopolists  as  the  guardians  of  freedom. 

325 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

"Balk  dictatorship."  Among  the  surest  devices  by  which 
the  interests  of  monopolists  are  upheld  in  the  name  of  laissez 
faire  is  the  use  of  this  word  "dictatorship"  when  you  mean 
"social  legislation."  Carry  it  through,  and  you  get  miraculous 
results.  You  will  find  that  even  a  feeble  attempt,  on  the  part 
of  our  constitutionally  elected  legislators  and  administra- 
tors, to  mitigate  distress,  raise  wage  levels,  improve  housing 
conditions  and  the  like  becomes  the  work  of  a  Hitler  or  a 
Mussolini.  Watch  Walter  Lippmann,  if  you  would  see  how 
rich  a  mental  life  can  be  built  upon  this  simple  confusion. 
See  this  suave  magician  daily  put  the  kerchief  of  "social  legis- 
lation" into  his  hat,  make  a  few  magic  passes,  and  lo!  out 
comes  the  rabbit  of  "dictatorship." 

At  the  word  "collectivism"  in  the  headline  my  plodding 
patience  fails.  It  is  hard  to  believe  that,  in  a  democracy,  such 
a  word  could  ever  be  used  as  the  synonym  of  evil.  And  it  is 
hard  to  believe  that  even  the  most  slovenly  of  tricksters 
should  try  to  suggest  that  the  New  Deal  is  collectivist.  The 
roots  of  the  matter,  I  think,  reside  in  this:  No  administration 
can,  over  a  long  period,  conceal  the  fact  that  the  needs  of 
business  are  basically  at  odds  with  the  needs  of  national  wel- 
fare. Hence  the  fascist  turn,  implicit  in  the  ability  to  use  as 
a  term  of  reproach  so  essentially  democratic  a  word  as  "col- 
lectivism." One  would  expect  the  demagogues  to  do  exactly 
the  opposite;  one  would  think  that  even  the  most  reactionary 
advocates  of  special  privilege  would  mask  their  policies  under 
such  a  word  as  "collectivism."  It  is  a  grim  sign  when  they 
don't. 

Alas!  we  have  only  got  through  the  headlines.  Obviously, 
to  translate  the  whole  article,  brief  as  it  is,  would  require  an 
encyclopaedia.  We  shall  simply  give  samples  of  the  article  it- 
self. It  begins: 
326 


READING    WHILE    YOU    RUN 

Government  has  gone  into  business,  so  business  will 
invade  the  field  of  politics,  it  was  determined  yesterday 
by  1,500  industrial  leaders  and  business  executives  at- 
tending the  final  session  of  the  annual  convention  of  the 
National  Association  of  Manufacturers  at  the  Com- 
modore. 

The  effrontery  of  the  notion  that  business,  after  patiently 
suffering  in  silence  through  a  hundred  and  fifty  years  of  the 
Republic,  has  finally  decided  to  "invade  the  field  of  politics" 
is  almost  breath-taking.  The  reporter  was  doubtless  in  a 
hurry.  He  simply  wanted  some  sort  of  introduction  that 
would  serve  to  make  the  oldest  story  in  American  history 
look  like  something  new — but  it  is  disturbing  to  think  that 
a  man  whose  life  work  is  the  collecting  of  "facts"  could  begin 
a  story  in  a  great  metropolitan  daily  with  so  brutal  a  violation 
of  fact. 

Among  those  concurring  in  the  decision,  which  aligns 
the  most  powerful  commercial  interests  in  the  country 
against  the  Roosevelt  administration,  were  business 
men  of  international  reputation,  representing  billions 
of  invested  capital,  millions  of  stockholders  and  em- 
ployees. 

"Representing  billions  of  invested  capital,  millions  of 
stockholders  and  employees."  Again  variants  of  the  master 
confusion  between  "business"  and  "industry."  From  this 
source  all  capitalist  apologetics  flow.  Later  in  the  piece,  by 
means  of  this  identification,  we  find  these  gentlemen  "repre- 
senting" not  only  the  flesh  and  blood  whose  services  they 
command  in  their  factories,  but  also  even  the  unemployed, 
the  flesh  and  blood  they  keep  out  of  their  factories. 

327 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

But  we  shall  not  go  on.  My  theme  is  an  old  one,  well  under- 
stood by  many.  I  simply  thought  of  showing  by  painful 
literalness  how  incessant  the  barrage  against  the  criticism 
of  capitalism  is.  The  truly  effective  work  is  not  done  by  some 
crude  blast  in  an  editorial  by  Hearst;  that  helps,  to  be  sure, 
but  the  real  confusion  is  kept  alive  by  this  modest  tithing, 
this  gentle,  almost  imperceptible  choice  of  words.  The  surest 
way  to  balk  action  is  to  choose  words  that  draw  lines  at  the 
wrong  places.  And  the  very  core  of  the  strategy,  I  think,  as 
Veblen  made  clear  and  Karl  Marx  before  him,  resides  in  the 
identification  of  "business"  with  "industry."  Thus,  we  can 
have  incessant  palavers  by  business  men  about  the  ways  of 
getting  our  factories  going.  They  can  be  perplexed  and  ear- 
nest and  noble  and  organization-loving  and  resolve-making, 
all  for  the  good  of  the  country,  and  the  country  can  sit  trem- 
bling and  praying  that  they  will  make  wise  decisions  for  us. 
And  all  the  time  the  one  basic  fact  goes  unregarded:  The 
fact  that,  if  their  special  interests  as  business  men  were  ruled 
out  today,  our  factories  could  resume  operation  at  capacity 
tomorrow.  But  once  you  allow  a  promoter  to  look  like  a  man- 
ager, once  you  allow  the  channelization  of  profits  to  mean 
the  same  thing  as  control  of  production,  you  are  in  for  the 
same  old  fabulous  swing  from  Republicans  to  Democrats  and 
from  Democrats  to  Republicans. 

And  the  words  by  which  they  advocate  the  swing  from  one 
to  the  other  are  precisely  the  words  that  keep  the  people 
from  getting  rid  of  them  both.  History  is  a  skilled  dramatist, 
with  dramatic  irony  as  the  main  feature  of  the  plot. 


328 


ANTONY  IN  BEHALF  OF  THE  PLAY 


AT  times  when  the  standards  of  criticism  are  set  by  a  recep- 
tive class,  as  in  the  decadent  stages  of  feudalism,  the  emphasis 
of  the  critic  tends  to  be  placed  upon  consumption.  Matters 
of  "appreciation"  and  "enjoyment"  are  the  touchstones.  Con- 
versely, in  the  Art  for  Art's  Sake  movement  of  recent  decades, 
we  find  the  emphasis  placed  almost  wholly  upon  production. 
Our  practical  inventors  and  business  promoters  of  this  period 
tended  to  emphasize  the  productive  factor,  assuming  that  in 
the  large  the  matter  of  consumption  would  take  care  of  itself 
— and  there  was  a  corresponding  trend  in  aesthetics,  with  the 
essence  of  art  being  seen  in  the  "self  expression"  of  the  artist. 

Today,  in  nonliterary  fields,  we  are  stressing  neither  pro- 
duction nor  consumption,  but  the  integration  of  the  two. 
And  in  the  aesthetic  field,  this  emphasis  might  be  paralleled 
by  a  tendency  to  consider  literature,  not  as  a  creator's  device 
for  self-expression,  nor  as  an  audience's  device  for  amuse- 
ment or  instruction,  but  as  a  communicative  relationship 
between  writer  and  audience,  with  both  parties  actively  par- 
ticipating. In  such  an  approach,  the  poet's  "self-expression" 
or  the  audience's  "appreciation"  will  necessarily  figure,  but 
the  main  emphasis  will  be  elsewhere. 

This  reader-writer  relationship  is  emphasized  in  the  fol- 
lowing article,  which  is  an  imaginary  speech  by  Antony.  In- 
stead of  addressing  the  mob,  as  he  is  pictured  in  the  third  act 
of  Julius  Caesar,  he  turns  to  the  audience.  And  instead  of 
being  a  dramatic  character  within  the  play,  he  is  here  made 

329 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

to  speak  as  a  critical  commentator  upon  the  play,  explaining 

its  mechanism  and  its  virtues.  Thus  we  have  a  tale  from 

Shakespeare,  retold,  not  as  a  plot  but  from  the  standpoint  of 

the  rhetorician,  who  is  concerned  with  a  work's  processes  of 

appeal. 

Act  III,  Scene  ii.  Antony  has  entered  with  the  body  of 
Caesar.  Brutus  has  made  his  defense  before  the  people,  has 
won  their  sympathies  to  the  cause  of  the  conspirators,  and  has 
departed. 

Antony:  Friends,  Romans,  countrymen  .  .  .  one — two — 
three  syllables:  hence,  in  this  progression,  a  magic  formula. 
"Romans"  to  fit  the  conditions  of  the  play;  "countrymen" 
the  better  to  identify  the  play-mob  with  the  mob  in  the  pit 
— for  -we  are  in  the  Renaissance,  at  that  point  when  Europe's 
vast  national  integers  are  taking  shape,  and  all  the  wisdom 
that  comes  of  the  body  is  to  be  obscured  by  our  putting  in 
place  of  the  body  the  political  corpus,  while  we  try  to  run 
this  bigger  hulk  with  the  instincts  for  the  little  one — the 
Hobbesian  metaphor — and  the  gloomy  error  has  exalted  us, 
so  that  no  word  handles  as  much,  and  as  quickly,  and  as  in- 
expressibly, as  this  word  "countrymen,"  which  must  really 
mean,  if  pragmatic  results  are  the  test,  that  there  is  glory  solely 
in  being  outdone  by  those  within  our  own  borders.  Anyway, 
consider  how  much  better  my  one-two-three  arrangement 
is  than  was  the  opening  salutation  in  Brutus'  speech: 
"Romans,  countrymen,  lovers."  He  is  an  orator — but  be- 
cause you  of  England  have  thought  the  untrustworthy  Latins 
eloquent,  and  because  you  don't  think  you  are  nearly  so  clever 
as  you'd  like  to  be,  I  shall  seem  closer  to  you  if  I  apologize  for 
bluntness.  Yet  how  much  more  competent  my  opening  sylla- 

330 


ANTONY    IN    BEHALF    OF    THE    PLAY 

bles  are:  how  much  truer,  since  true  to  the  processes  of  a 
spell,  stressing  a  charm's  threeness. 

My  Elizabethan  audience,  under  the  guise  of  facing  a  Ro- 
man mob  I  confront  you  at  a  most  complicated  moment.  As 
a  matter  of  fact,  up  to  this  point  in  our  play  you  have  been 
treated  most  outrageously.  It  can  honestly  be  said  that,  in  no 
major  particular,  have  you  been  granted  those  clear  and 
simple  responses  to  which,  as  customers,  you  might  feel  your- 
selves entitled.  Instead,  your  author  has  kept  you  in  as  vacil- 
lating a  condition  as  this  very  Roman  mob  you  have  been 
watching  with  so  little  respect.  I  doubt  if  he  distinguishes  be- 
tween the  two  of  you.  All  that  I  as  Antony  do  to  this  play- 
mob,  as  a  character-recipe  I  do  to  you.  He  would  play  upon 
you;  he  would  seem  to  know  your  stops;  he  would  sound  you 
from  your  lowest  note  to  the  top  of  your  compass.  He  thinks 
you  as  easy  to  be  played  upon  as  a  pipe. 

Oh,  there  have  been  signs  you  recognize  quickly,  that  you 
might  feel  familiar  with  the  road  upon  which  you  have  been 
stumbling.  The  conspirators  have  met  during  storms  and  in 
the  "vile  contagion  of  the  night."  They  have  pulled  caps  over 
their  eyes.  One  plucked  at  another's  sleeve.  Such  labels  are 
easily  read  by  anyone.  The  streets  of  Rome  have  bristled  with 
bad  omens.  Caesar's  wife  has  cried  in  sleep  that  they  are  mur- 
dering Caesar.  Outlandish  astronomical  and  biologic  marvels 
have  occurred — to  point  the  direction  of  our  plot  and  give  it 
weight  by  implicating  the  very  heavens.  And  finally,  Caesar 
was  struck  with  daggers.  Yet  these  standard  things  have  lured 
you  into  a  region  where  you  are  not  competent  at  all. 

Consider  the  burden  you  now  carry,  as  I  step  before  the 
play-mob  with  the  fresh-murdered  body  of  Caesar.  We  have 
established  a  Caesar-principle  and  a  Brutus-principle,  though 

33i 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

I  blush  to  consider  some  of  the  devices  whereby  the  two  prin- 
ciples have  been  set  into  your  minds.  Realize  for  what  slight 
reasons  you  have  been  willing  to  let  Caesar  die.  (The  con- 
spirators would  not  so  much  as  touch  him  until  you  also  had 
been  brought  into  their  band.  And  when  Casca  shouted, 
"Speak,  hands,  for  me!"  stabbing  great  Caesar,  those  homi- 
cidal hands  spoke  for  you  also.)  First,  we  had  the  portents, 
beginning  with  the  soothsayer's  admonition  that  Caesar  be- 
ware the  Ides  of  March.  In  showing  how  things  were  going, 
these  signs  prepared  you  somewhat  to  go  in  the  same  direc- 
tion. 

But  in  addition,  your  sympathies  have  been  poisoned.  Cae- 
sar a  conqueror,  a  monarch  by  reason  of  his  attainments?  Yet 
he  was  deaf  in  one  ear.  He  had  the  falling-sickness,  and 
"swounded"  from  the  intense  strain  of  refusing  a  crown  he 
coveted.  "He  had  a  fever  when  he  was  in  Spain,"  cried  out 
"like  a  sick  girl,"  his  feebleness  amazing  Cassius.  Cassius  was 
a  better  swimmer  than  Caesar — and  when  the  two  of  them 
had  leaped  into  the  Tiber  on  a  dare,  Cassius  had  to  pull  out 
Caesar,  to  whom  he  must  "bend  his  body  if  Caesar  carelessly 
but  nod  on  him."  His  wife  is  barren.  For  all  his  determina- 
tion to  be  bold,  there  is  a  timid  and  superstitious  trait  in  him. 
And  worst,  for  an  emperor,  on  a  night  of  storm  and  por- 
tents he  appeared  on  the  stage  in  his  nightgown — so  let  him 
die.  For  such  reasons  as  these  you  are  willing  to  put  a  knife 
through  the  ribs  of  Caesar. 

Still,  you  are  sorry  for  Caesar.  We  cannot  profitably  build 
a  play  around  the  horror  of  a  murder  if  you  do  not  care 
whether  the  murdered  man  lives  or  dies.  So  we  had  to  do 
something  for  Caesar — and  you  would  be  ashamed  if  you 
stopped  to  consider  what  we  did.  I  believe  we  made  Caesar 
appealing  by  proxy.  That  is:  I,  Antony,  am  a  loyal  follower 

33* 


ANTONY  IN  BEHALF  OF  THE  PLAY 
of  Caesar;  you  love  me  for  a  good  fellow,  since  I  am  expan- 
sive, hearty,  much  as  you  would  be  after  not  too  heavy  a 
meal;  and  as  one  given  to  pleasure,  I  am  not  likely  to  lie 
awake  at  night  plotting  you  injury.  If  such  a  man  loves 
Caesar,  his  love  lifts  up  Caesar  in  your  eyes. 

I  serve  a  double  purpose.  Not  only  do  I  let  Caesar  shine  a 
bit  warmly  by  his  reflection  of  my  glow,  but  when  the  actual 
persona  of  the  Caesar-principle  is  dispatched  by  daggers,  the 
principle  lives  on  in  me,  who  continue  the  function  of  Caesar 
in  the  play.  In  the  next  act,  the  fourth,  the  persona  itself  will 
reappear  momentarily  as  a  ghost  in  Brutus'  tent — but  on 
the  whole,  after  Caesar's  death,  I  am  the  plot-substitute  for 
Caesar.  No  wonder  Brutus,  in  his  address  to  the  play-mob 
but  a  short  time  ago,  told  them  that  only  Caesar's  vices  had 
been  slain,  while  his  virtues  lived  on,  still  active.  So  they 
do,  in  me,  whom  you  like  because  I  am  marked  by  so  service- 
able a  trait  as  loyalty.  And  when  this  play  is  over,  Antony 
alone  of  the  major  characters  will  live;  for  you  like  to  have 
about  you  such  a  man  as  might  keep  guard  at  the  door  while 
you  sleep.  Given  certain  conceptions  of  danger,  I  become 
the  sign  of  safety.  A  little  sunshine-thought,  to  take  home 
with  you  after  these  many  slaughterings.  Only  as  much  of  the 
Caesar-principle  as  will  let  you  relax,  is  left  to  bid  you  good- 
night— and  the  Brutus-principle  will  have  died  to  purchase 
you  this  handsome  privilege. 

I  grant  that  on  this  last  score  I  am  not  the  perfect  recipe. 
My  author  has  provided  purer  comfort-recipes  for  you  else- 
where. I  show  a  little  too  much  aptitude  at  deception,  but 
you  should  not  hold  that  against  me.  This  trait  was  merely  a 
by-product  of  my  place  in  the  story:  it  arose  from  the  fact  that 
upon  me  fell  the  burden  of  keeping  things  going,  and  the 
plottiness  of  our  drama  makes  naturally  for  plotting.  Be- 

333 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

sides,  recall  that  I  was  wholly  the  reveler  as  long  as  Caesar 
lived.  Once  he  is  dead,  it  is  no  longer  so  necessary  that  I  be 
likable  in  Caesar's  behalf  and  warm  him  by  my  warmth. 
Henceforth  I  am  no  mere  Caesar-adjunct,  but  the  very  vessel 
of  the  Caesar-principle.  So,  in  expanding  to  my  expanded 
role,  I  must  break  the  former  mold  somewhat.  Let  savants 
explain  the  change  by  saying  that  carefree  Antony  was  made 
a  soberer  man,  and  a  bitter  one,  by  the  death  of  Caesar.  But 
it  is  an  obvious  fact  that  if  an  important  cog  in  the  plot 
vanishes  in  the  very  middle  of  our  drama,  something  has  to 
take  its  place.  In  deputizing  for  Caesar,  I  found  it  impossible 
to  remain  completely  Antony.  Let  savants  explain  my  altered 
psychology  as  they  will — /  know  it  was  a  playwright's  neces- 
sity. 

You  have  been  made  conspirators  in  a  murder.  For  this 
transgression,  there  must  be  some  expiative  beast  brought 
up  for  sacrifice.  Such  requirements  guided  us  in  the  mixing 
of  the  Brutus-recipe,  for  it  is  Brutus  that  must  die  to  absolve 
you  of  your  stabbing  an  emperor  who  was  deaf  in  one  ear 
and  whose  wife  was  sterile.  But  let  us  be  fair.  There  is  also 
the  fact  that  you  wrested  certain  political  prerogatives  from 
King  John,  and  have  been  taught  to  cherish  them.  Here  also 
was  a  source  of  conviction  to  be  tapped  as  an  ingredient  in 
our  formula.  We  discredited  Caesar  from  the  very  opening 
of  the  play,  even  before  he  had  appeared  (significant  timing). 
by  letting  you  see  the  tribunes  angry  with  certain  commoners 
who  were  too  cordial  in  their  preparations  for  the  return  of 
Caesar  after  victory.  Caesar,  it  seems,  would  try  to  retract  your 
Magna  Carta  from  the  Romans.  Conversely,  it  is  the  Brutus- 
recipe  that  would  prevent  this  threatened  undoing  of  English 
political  emancipation.  So  we  make  Brutus  honorable  in 
your  eyes  by  starting  his  conduct  primarily  from  this  fear, 

334 


ANTONY  IN  BEHALF  OF  THE  PLAY 
which  is  always  your  fear  as  regards  conditions  in  the  con- 
temporary state.  He  is  virtuous  because  he  does  for  Romans 
what  you  want  your  popular  leaders  to  do  for  you.  He  takes 
on  the  nobility  that  comes  of  being  good  for  private  enter- 
prise. 

On  the  other  hand,  he  is  a  conspirator;  hence  from  the 
general  censure  takes  corruption.  For  tough  Casca  is  a 
Brutus-adjunct;  and  lean,  envious  Cassius;  and  Decius  the 
flatterer.  Here  are  qualities  which,  if  lodged  in  any  but  your- 
selves, are  not  comforting  to  contemplate — hence  are  "vices." 
Brutus'  acts,  though  done  in  a  good  cause,  have  shadiness. 
One  cannot  be  stealthy  as  a  thief  without  partially  earning 
the  kind  of  judgments  that  are  laid  against  thieves.  Noble- 
ness, yes,  but  dirty  business.  And  if  his  wife,  Portia,  speaks 
for  him  by  her  deep  affection  (as  I  obediently  did  for  Caesar), 
note  that  she  is  allowed  to  show  this  affection  only  at  those 
moments  when  he  is  sinisterly  engaged,  and  answers  her 
evasively.  That  is:  her  love  is  conveyed  by  her  misgivings,  as 
she  worries  because  her  once  regular  husband  roams  about 
at  night,  in  "rheumy  and  unpurged  air"  sucking  up  "the 
humours  of  the  dank  morning,"  so  that  even  the  quality  of 
swamps  is  drawn  upon  to  discredit  Brutus  a  little,  right  when 
Portia  is  loving  him.  All  told:  a  fit  expiative  offering  for  our 
offense  of  murder:  worthy,  since  he  was  noble  and  aroused 
affection,  yet  yieldable  on  good  legalistic  grounds,  since  he 
was  a  conspirator,  like  a  bog.  In  weeping  for  his  death,  you 
will  be  sweetly  absolved. 

At  this  particular  point  in  the  play,  however,  as  I  rise  to 
address  you,  accompanied  by  Caesar's  corse,  Brutus  has  just 
confronted  the  play-mob,  stated  before  them  the  case  of  the 
conspirators,  and  been  exonerated.  They  have  clamored  their 
approval.  They  are  convinced  that  Caesar  would  have  been 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
a  tyrant.  And  they  have  shouted  to  the  Brutus-principle,  who 
must  die  for  you,  "Live,  Brutus!  live!  live!"  It  is  my  task, 
as  I  stand  before  the  play-mob,  to  contrive  a  peripety  for  my 
audience,  reversing  the  arrows  of  your  expectations.  When 
my  speech  is  finished,  we  must  have  set  you  to  making  the 
preparations  for  Brutus'  death. 

Well,  a  dramatist  is  a  professional  gambler.  He  prefers 
playing  with  loaded  dice.  And  don't  think  that  we  should  try 
to  bring  about  this  reversal  without  first  making  sure  that 
we  had  furtively  dealt  ourselves  some  trumps.  We  have 
stacked  the  cards  a  little — not  so  shamelessly  as  some  of  our 
rival  Shake-scenes  might  have  done,  but  enough.  Here,  I 
believe,  we  have  drawn  from  the  well  of  magic.  As  follows: 

Recall  how,  in  the  early  rites  of  communion,  whereby  one 
man's  interests  were  made  identical  with  another's,  the  risks 
of  competitive  harms  were  eliminated  by  a  partnership,  a 
partnership  established  by  three  distinct  symbolic  acts:  the 
sharing  of  one's  wife,  the  exchanging  of  blood,  the  sitting 
down  together  at  table.  Of  these,  the  sharing  of  the  wife  is 
dead,  buried  beneath  notions  of  virtue  that  go  with  later 
concepts  of  ownership.  Yet  we  give  you  something  similar,  in 
Caesar's  dying  words.  "Et  tu,  Brute?  Then  fall,  Caesar!" 
which  suggests  that  in  Caesar's  pain  there  is  more  than  the 
pain  of  knives,  there  is  the  pain  of  wrenched  intimacy,  elicit- 
ing a  rebuke  almost  Christlike  in  its  replacing  of  vengeful- 
ness  with  sorrow,  as  the  victim  saw  that  "Caesar's  angel"  was 
among  his  slayers.  At  this  moment  Caesar  becomes  great — 
for  he  must  die  well,  at  the  expense  of  Brutus.  They  had 
shared  affection;  hence  a  promise  contracted  within  the  deep- 
lying  terms  of  magic  had  been  violated. 

As  for  the  rites  at  table:  When  the  conspirators  had  come, 
to  make  sure  that  Caesar  would  be  on  hand  at  the  Senate  to 

336 


ANTONY  IN  BEHALF  OF  THE  PLAY 
be  murdered,  Caesar  welcomed  them  heartily:  "Good 
friends,  go  in,  and  taste  some  wine  with  me."  And  lastly,  as 
for  the  blood-communion,  how  grimly  it  is  vivified  and 
mocked  (in  pious  profanation)  when  the  conspirators,  at 
Brutus'  word,  bathe  in  the  blood  of  Caesar's  wounds.  Three 
magic  formulae,  outraged — thus  Shakespeare  speaks  to  you 
in  accents  you  had  heard  while  not  listening. 

I  now  stand  before  you,  assigned  to  the  definite  task  of  con- 
triving our  peripety,  turning  the  arrows  of  your  future  while 
apparently  engaged  only  in  turning  those  of  this  unruly 
play-mob.  I  shall,  by  what  immediately  follows,  proclaim 
myself  in  all  thoroughness  the  Caesar-principle  perpetuated. 
Here  I  fulfill  the  pledge  1  gave  when  first  I  came  upon  the 
stage  after  Caesar's  murder.  I  came  ostensibly  to  reassure  the 
conspirators  that  I  was  ready  to  make  peace  with  them,  now 
that  the  offense  was  definitely  beyond  reparation.  I  shook 
hands  with  them,  one  after  the  other — but  in  the  very  act  of 
doing  so,  I  forgot  them,  and  fell  to  musing  aloud  upon  the 
destroyed  magnificence  of  Caesar.  In  this  way  I  signaled  you 
to  the  effect  that  I  was  not  turning  against  Caesar,  even  while 
"shaking  the  bloody  fingers  of  his  foes."  (You  wanted  me  to 
remain  with  Caesar,  since  that  has  been  established  as  my 
part  in  this  play.  I  have  been  given  my  label — and  like  chil- 
dren, you  insist  that  a  thing's  true  name  is  the  name  you  first 
heard  it  called  by.  In  your  insistence  that  I  remain  allied 
with  Caesar,  repeating  my  number,  you  are  grateful  for  the 
little  cue  I  give  you  by  my  absent-minded  musings  over 
Caesar's  body.  In  your  satisfaction  at  receiving  from  me  this 
sign,  to  restate  my  identity  even  as  I  make  peace  with  the 
conspirators,  you  do  not  stop  to  ask  why  the  conspirators 
should  not  interpret  this  sign  precisely  as  you  do.  Your  con- 
cern with  your  own  aesthetic  problem  leads  you  to  overlook 

337 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

this  straining  of  verisimilitude,  as  we  thought  you  would.  We 
judged  that,  in  your  eagerness  to  receive  the  clue,  you  would 
not  be  overexacting  as  regard  our  manner  of  conveying  it.) 

Brutus,  you  will  remember,  had  asked  the  mob  to  weigh 
what  he  said,  and  to  judge  his  statements  as  critics.  But,  as  a 
matter  of  fact,  he  gave  them  no  opportunity  to  follow  his 
advice.  He  told  them  to  choose,  then  stated  the  issue  in  such 
a  way  that  there  was  no  choice.  Those  that  love  Rome,  he 
said,  must  agree  that  Caesar  should  have  been  killed.  Those 
that  do  not  love  Rome,  should  object.  If  there  are  any  that 
do  not  love  Rome,  let  them  step  forward  in  protest.  No  move 
— hence,  the  killing  is  endorsed. 

And  now,  my  countrymen,  hear  me  ask  the  play-mob  to 
lend  me  their  ears,  as  I  proceed  to  lay  before  you  a  plot  in 
miniature.  It  will  not  be  a  very  difficult  pattern  that  I  ask 
you  to  appreciate:  a  rudimentary  piece  of  translation,  by 
which  I  awaken  in  you  the  satisfactions  of  authorship,  as  you 
hear  me  say  one  thing  and  know  that  I  mean  another.  "I 
come  to  bury  Caesar,  not  to  praise  him" — whereat  I  praise 
him  so  roundly  that  all  the  vigor  of  the  Caesar-principle  is 
brought  to  life  again. 

...  if  I  were  dispos'd  to  stir 

Your  heart  and  minds  to  mutiny  and  rage, 

I  should  do  Brutus  wrong,  and  Cassius  wrong,  .  .  . 

Whereat  I  stir  hearts  and  minds  to  mutiny  and  rage.  And  as 
the  pattern  grows  clear,  I  can  subtilize  it,  making  Brutus  and 
his  band  dishonorable  by  calling  them  all,  all  honorable 
men.  And  by  the  time  I  mention  Caesar's  will,  saying  that  I 
would  not  read  it  because  it  would  inflame  the  people,  in 
accordance  with  the  pattern  you  wait  to  hear  me  read  the 
338 


ANTONY  IN  BEHALF  OF  THE  PLAY 

will.  You  hear  them  entreat  me,  you  hear  me  refuse.  Then 
you  observe  me  stepping  down,  to  be  among  them,  that  I  may 
better  "realize"  Caesar's  death  for  them,  and  make  them 
tearful  coroners  while  I  appraise  the  wounds: 

If  you  have  tears,  prepare  to  shed  them  now. 

You  all  do  know  this  mantle:  I  remember 

The  first  time  ever  Caesar  put  it  on; 

'Twas  on  a  summer's  evening  in  his  tent, 

That  day  he  overcame  the  Nervii. 

Look!  in  this  place  ran  Cassius'  dagger  through: 

See  what  a  rent  the  envious  Casca  made: 

Through  this  the  well-beloved  Brutus  stabb'd; 

And,  as  he  pluck'd  his  cursed  steel  away, 

Mark  how  the  blood  of  Caesar  follow'd  it, 

As  rushing  out  of  doors,  to  be  resolv'd 

If  Brutus  so  unkindly  knock'd  or  no; 

For  Brutus,  as  you  know,  was  Caesar's  angel: 

Judge,  O  you  gods!  how  dearly  Caesar  lov'd  him. 

This  was  the  most  unkindest  cut  of  all; 

For  when  the  noble  Caesar  saw  him  stab, 

Ingratitude,  more  strong  than  traitors'  arms, 

Quite  vanquish'd  him:  then  burst  his  mighty  heart; 

And,  in  his  mantle  muffling  up  his  face, 

Even  at  the  base  of  Pompey's  statua, 

Which  all  the  while  ran  blood,  great  Caesar  fell. 

O!  what  a  fall  was  there,  my  countrymen; 

Then  I,  and  you,  and  all  of  us  fell  down, 

Whilst  bloody  treason  flourish'd  over  us. 

O!  now  you  weep,  and  I  perceive  you  feel 

The  dint  of  pity;  these  are  gracious  drops. 

Kind  souls,  what!  weep  you  when  you  but  behold 

339 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

Our  Caesar's  vesture  wounded?  Look  you  here, 
Here  is  himself,  marr'd,  as  you  see,  with  traitors. 

You  see  my  "transference,"  as  I  turn  from  the  mantle  to 
the  dead  man  that  had  worn  the  mantle.  You  see  the  play- 
mob  grow  inflamed  under  my  talk  of  pity  (remember  our 
pattern).  There  is  loud  talk  of  mutiny;  the  people  are  about 
to  rush  away  in  anger — but  we  would  "consolidate"  our 
position.  And  now,  rounding  out  the  pattern,  I  return  to 
the  matter  of  the  will,  which  I  had  refused  to  read: 

Why,  friends,  you  go  to  do  you  know  not  what. 
Wherein  hath  Caesar  thus  deserv'd  your  loves? 
Alas!  you  know  not:  I  must  tell  you  then. 
You  have  forgot  the  will  I  told  you  of. 

Whereupon  I  read  them  the  will  of  a  rich  philanthropist — 
and  their  vindictiveness  against  the  conspirators  is  complete. 
You  have  been  engrossed — faugh!  you  demons,  how  you  do 
love  plottings,  for  all  your  censure  of  plotters.  Or  is  it  ma- 
chinery that  delights  you — and  are  you  pleased  with  joining 
me  to  make  a  smoothly  running  engine  of  fatality? 

Cassius  was  right  in  proposing  that  they  slay  me,  along 
with  Caesar.  But  Brutus  held  it  was  enough  to  slay  the 
persona  of  the  Caesar-principle,  on  the  ground  that  the  ad- 
junct would  subside  through  want  of  its  source: 

Our  course  will  seem  too  bloody,  Caius  Cassius, 
To  cut  the  head  off  and  then  hack  the  limbs,   .   .  . 
For  Antony  is  but  a  limb  of  Caesar. 

And,  for  Mark  Antony,  think  not  of  him; 
For  he  can  do  no  more  than  Caesar's  arm 
When  Caesar's  head  is  off. 
34o 


ANTONY    IN    BEHALF    OF    THE    PLAY 

So  the  Brutus-principle  slays  half  the  Caesar-principle,  and 

spares  the  other  half  that  will  in  turn  destroy  it. 

Recall  these  steps:  How  first,  after  the  murder,  I  had  sent 
word  by  a  servant  offering  to  join  the  cause  of  the  conspira- 
tors, if  they  would  guarantee  me  safety.  How  I  fell  to  musing 
over  the  body  of  Caesar.  How,  after  exeunt  all  but  Antony, 
I  had  let  loose  my  full-throated  venom: 

O!  pardon  me,  thou  bleeding  piece  of  earth, 

That  I  am  meek  and  gentle  with  these  butchers; 

Thou  art  the  ruins  of  the  noblest  man 

That  ever  lived  in  the  tide  of  times. 

Woe  to  the  hand  that  shed  this  costly  blood! 

Over  thy  wounds  now  do  I  prophesy, 

Which  like  dumb  mouths  do  ope  their  ruby  lips, 

To  beg  the  voice  and  utterance  of  my  tongue, 

A  curse  shall  light  upon  the  limbs  of  men; 

Domestic  fury  and  fierce  civil  strife 

Shall  cumber  all  the  parts  of  Italy; 

Blood  and  destruction  shall  be  so  in  use, 

And  dreadful  objects  so  familiar, 

That  mothers  shall  but  smile  when  they  behold 

Their  infants  quarter 'd  with  the  hands  of  war; 

All  pity  chok'd  with  custom  of  fell  deeds: 

And  Caesar's  spirit,  ranging  for  revenge, 

With  Ate  by  his  side  come  hot  from  hell, 

Shall  in  these  confines  with  a  monarch's  voice 

Cry  "Havoc!"  and  let  slip  the  dogs  of  war; 

That  this  foul  deed  shall  smell  above  the  earth 

With  carrion  men,  groaning  for  burial. 

Then,  in  my  speech  before  the  Romans,  I  fulfilled  my 
promises,   starting  those  processes   by  which   the   Brutus- 

34i 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

principle,  which  killed  the  Caesar -persona,  is  driven  to  his 

death  by  the  Caesar-adjunct. 

Thank  us  for  this  growing  thing  by  growing  with  it — and 
in  the  following  scene  we  shall  allow  you  to  squeeze  the  last 
available  sum  of  emotion  from  the  mounting  sequence,  caus- 
ing it  to  drip,  not  by  still  hotter  pressure,  but  by  a  sudden 
cooling.  Prominent  among  the  conspirators,  there  was  a  cer- 
tain Cinna.  Now  another  China  comes  upon  the  stage,  China 
the  poet,  ludicrous,  the  cartoon  of  a  poet,  the  aesthete,  such 
as  you  have  long  before  now  been  taught  to  laugh  at  (our  au- 
thor is  treading  on  safe  ground  here).  He  is  an  earnest  but 
ineffectual  wretch,  who  probably  knows  a  good  line  when 
he  sees  it,  and  would  doubtless  have  been  entranced  to  write 
just  such  verses  as  Shakespeare  wrote;  and  perhaps  he  might 
even  have  written  them  had  he  known,  like  Shakespeare, 
how  to  draw  finesses  from  toughnesses.  Yet  our  dramatist 
betrays  him  for  the  delectation  of  you,  my  stinking  audi- 
ence, makes  him  your  laughing  stock,  ridicules  one  of  his  own 
Guild  for  your  benefit,  though  you  have  no  desire  whatever 
to  write  like  Shakespeare,  would  much  rather  eat  beef  than 
hear  a  play,  but  cannot  go  on  eating  beef  forever,  and  so  come 
here  occasionally,  demanding  firm,  beefy  diction.  The  mob 
stumbles  upon  this  Cinna,  overwhelming  him.  First  Citizen, 
Second  Citizen,  Third  Citizen,  and  Fourth  Citizen  each  ask 
him  a  different  question,  all  at  the  same  time,  insisting  im- 
periously that  he  answer  without  delay.  It  is  all  quite  hilari- 
ous, as  Cinna  is  in  a  daze,  comically.  And  when  they  ask  him 
his  name,  and  he  says  with  assurance,  "Cinna,"  they  start 
pawing  at  him  in  earnest — and  when  he  begs  them  for  a  little 
accuracy,  insisting  that  he  is  not  Cinna  the  conspirator  but 
Cinna  the  poet,  they  unanswerably  answer  that  they  abomi- 
nate the  name,  and  so  will  pummel  him  for  his  verses,  and 
342 


ANTONY  IN  BEHALF  OF  THE  PLAY 
the  act  ends  with  the  brawling  group  moving  from  the  stage. 
You  somehow  know  that  the  poetic  Cinna  will  suffer  no 
fundamental  harm.  He  will  merely  be  slain-notslain,  like  a 
clown  hit  by  cannon  balls — yet  by  this  let-down  we  have  re- 
affirmed in  another  way  the  grim  intentions  of  the  mob.  We 
have  clinched  the  arrows  of  your  expectancy,  incidentally 
easing  our  obligations  as  regard  the  opening  of  Act  IV. 

You  will  be  still  more  wisely  handled  by  what  follows,  as 
our  Great  Demagogue  continues  to  manipulate  your  minds. 
I  think  particularly  of  the  second  scene  of  the  next  act, 
weighted  by  the  steadily  organized  pressure  of  events.  You 
will  witness  a  startling  quarrel  between  Brutus  and  Cassius. 
After  this  violence  and  the  sad  reconciliation  (these  men  are 
disintegrating),  there  will  be  a  contrasted  descent  to  soft  tear- 
fulness, as  Brutus'  drowsy  servant  plays  him  a  disconsolate 
little  tune  in  the  dead  of  night  (Portia  is  dead) — and  the 
servant  is  drowsy,  that  he  may  fall  asleep  as  Varro  and  Clau- 
dius have  done;  then  with  three  men  sleeping  (and  you  droop- 
ing in  sympathy)  and  Brutus  alone  awake,  there  will  be,  all 
about,  a  sleepiness,  and  a  Brutus-loneliness — whereat  the 
Caesar-persona,  now  as  a  ghost,  may  return  to  indicate,  by  a 
vague  prophecy,  that  all  will  be  ended  for  Brutus  at  Philippi. 


343 


TRIAL  TRANSLATION 
(FROM  TWELFTH  NIGHT) 


ACT  I,  Scene  i — A  room  in  the  Duke's  palace.  Enter  Duke, 
Curio,  Lords;  Musicians  attending. 

Duke:  As  the  first  speaker  in  a  well-formed  drama,  I  shall 
begin  significantly — in  the  sense  that  I  shall  give  the  audi- 
ence some  inkling  of  my  "program"  forthwith — suggesting 
the  quality  which  the  subsequent  events  are  to  quantify.  In 
his  responsiveness  to  beginnings,  man  lays  cornerstones,  dis- 
tributes souvenirs  when  a  new  enterprise  is  opened,  pro- 
nounces "valedictories,"  and  even  (ironically  enough)  treats 
burial  as  the  symbol  of  a  birth-in-heaven.  So  I  shall  not  vio- 
late the  implicit  confidence  of  my  audience,  a  confidence 
which  they  place  in  me  without  their  even  themselves  know- 
ing that  they  do  so.  I  shall  point  the  arrows  of  their  expecta- 
tions thus  promptly:  my  very  opening  words  will  proclaim 
an  aspect  of  this  work: 

If  music  be  the  food  of  love,  play  on  .  .  . 

As  cells  absorbing  sunlight,  as  the  fetus  basking  in  its 
womb-heaven,  receiving  nutriment;  not  venturing  forth  ag- 
gressively, predaciously,  as  with  those  jungle  animals  that 
stalk,  leap,  and  capture  before  they  eat,  and  thus  must  do 
hating  and  injuring — but  simply  as  larvae  feed,  let  me  take 
in  gentle  music.  You,  the  poet's  audience,  even  now  have  it 
placed  more  clearly  before  you,  what  I  have  in  mind.  There 

344 


TRIAL    TRANSLATION 

are  "musicians  attending" — they  have  played  somewhat, 
encouraging  you  to  rise  and  fall  in  Einfiihlung  with  their 
melody,  setting  you  so  early  into  a  mood  of  acquiescence.  You 
too  have  laid  yourselves  open,  as  cells  are  filled,  as  the  fetus 
prospers  by  merely  having  bounty  forced  upon  it.  The 
ground  lies  stretching  beneath  fine  rain — not  an  assailment, 
but  a  gently-falling  mist,  blotted  by  the  soil  (I  refer  not  to 
the  weather,  but  to  a  way  of  feeling).  We  are  recipient.  Play 
on. 

Give  me  excess  of  it,  that,  surfeiting, 
The  appetite  may  sicken  and  so  die. 

Which  modifies  my  first  statement  considerably.  For  if,  in 
the  hearing  of  soft  music,  there  is  a  basking,  a  larval-feeding, 
we  have  now  introduced  an  element  alien  to  such  absolute 
recipience.  In  laying  us  open  to  clemency,  music  lays  us 
open  in  general — and  thus  may  also  lay  us  open  to  inclem- 
ency, if  there  is  inclemency  about.  You  northerners,  skilled 
in  love-fictions  and  their  melancholies,  know  that  by  our 
mentioning  the  "food  of  love"  we  have  introduced  a  theme  of 
melancholy.  So  quickly  you  experts  detect  the  signs,  and 
decide  why  your  Duke  is  gloomy.  We  have  suggested  two 
ways  at  once:  how,  in  the  nutriment  of  music,  there  is  an 
added  hunger  started  up.  I  shall  not  bewilder  you  on  saying 
that,  as  I  have  laid  myself  open  to  this  "food  of  love"  (music), 
I  may  in  surfeiting  close  myself.  You  Elizabethan  gluttons 
can  grasp  this  trope  quite  readily — hence  I  intermingle 
things  so  widely  separated  in  their  range  as  faint  music  and 
gut-knowledge,  for  even  in  our  frailest  imaginings  we  must 
imagine  with  our  bodies. 

That  strain  again!  it  had  a  dying  fall. 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

A  "dying  fall"  is  simply  a  "cadence"  (from  cadere,  to  fall) — 
so  I  here  use  a  purely  technical  designation  for  whatever 
sentimental  increment  it  may  carry.  If  notes  drop  to  a  semi- 
close,  let  us  drop  with  them — so  altogether:  our  melody,  our 
verbal  images,  and  our  tyrannical  yet  gullible  audience.  Con- 
sider all  that  "down"-thoughts  contain  for  people  who  pic- 
ture ambition  and  victory  as  up,  to  whom  careers  are  a  climb- 
ing of  hills,  who  would  struggle  towards  the  head-waters, 
who  place  their  heels  upon  a  neck,  whose  heaven  is  above 
them,  and  who  are  put  to  rot  six  feet  under.  I  have  just  been 
talking  of  a  relinquishment  so  total  that  it  becomes  protec- 
tive. I  have  really  proposed  carrying  the  blessedness  of  larval- 
feeding  into  that  further  stage  of  stereotypy  wherein  humble 
things  protect  themselves  by  becoming  motionless.  See:  they 
have  no  stouter  defense  than  that — a  mere  rigidifying,  a 
turning-off  of  the  register,  a  method  integral  to  such  as  might 
derive  their  scheme  of  happiness,  not  from  a  snatching  of 
pulsant  meat,  but  as  a  swimming  in  tepid  water,  a  being- 
tubularly-fed  from  a  manna-placenta.  Accordingly  I  would, 
under  danger,  merely  shut  away  the  recordings  of  danger — 
so  the  music  at  this  point,  to  do  outside  me  what  I  would 
make  it  do  within,  falls  dying. 

[Novelist:  To  close  oneself  is  to  attempt  "protection  by  im- 
mobility." I  mean:  these  things  that  larval-feed  will  usually, 
at  the  threat  of  danger,  fall  into  a  stiffness,  making  themselves 
nonexistent  by  rigidity.  Lacking  predatory  weapons,  their 
defense  is  in  their  simulation  of  deadness,  which  we  see  from 
without,  as  we  observe  only  the  curled-up  irresponsiveness  of 
their  forms,  when  we  have  touched  them,  with  a  stick  or 
something — but  which  obviously  has  its  deadness-counter- 
part  in  the  stopping  of  their  emotions,  the  stilling  of  their 
little  caterpillar  thinkings.  So  this  Duke  is  a  gentle  one,  who 
346 


TRIAL    TRANSLATION 

would  strike  at  no  one,  but  asks  only  that  he  be  able  to  "turn 
off"  his  entire  experience,  to  protect  himself  by  becoming 
a  living  nothing.] 

O,  it  came  o'er  my  ear  like  the  sweet  sound, 
That  breathes  upon  a  bank  of  violets, 
Stealing  and  giving  odour! 

As  you,  the  audience,  already  suspected,  my  prayer  for  "sur- 
feit" was  somewhat  metaphorical.  You  know  I  wanted  the 
music  to  continue  (in  the  sense  that  I  would  not  turn  off  my 
sensitiveness  to  the  sweetly  unhappy  situation  "behind"  the 
music).  But  an  important  change  has  occurred — and  I  men- 
tion the  stimulating  waft  of  a  scent  to  the  nostrils.  Did  I  talk 
of  larval-feeding,  with  its  "pure  receptivity,"  its  mere  lying 
prone — and  did  I  describe  defense,  in  this  order,  as  a  similarly 
nonaggressive  process,  a  shutting-within?  Then  stop  to  real- 
ize that  I  am  speaking  in  Elizabethan  England,  to  a  turbulent 
nation  of  brawlers  and  huntsmen.  To  such,  even  an  ecstatic 
praise  of  passiveness  cannot  go  long  without  becoming  invita- 
tion, rather.  You  cannot  take  my  gloom  to  mean  that  I  am, 
in  that  which  concerns  me,  without  a  future,  as  there  is  not 
one  single  member  of  this  entire  audience  that  is  without  a 
future  (without  an  image  of  something  like  that  which  is,  in 
the  sixteenth  century,  vaguely  deemed  available  in  America). 
[Novelist:  When  speaking  of  a  "sweet  sound,  that  breathes 
upon  a  bank  of  violets,  stealing  and  giving  odour,"  he  has 
put  many  signs  together,  starting  from  the  standard  one  that 
violets  both  are  prudish  and  do  bloom  in  the  emergent  stages 
of  the  rutting  season.  Adolescent,  incipient  love,  upon  which 
our  adult  English  poets  have  doted,  is  best  symbolized  by 
vernal  things  (by  an  adolescent  season).  It  is  southern  races, 
accustomed  to  the  glare  of  sunlight,  that  seem  most  pleased 

347 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
with  the  glaring,  high-noon  aspects  of  attachment.  But  the 
north,  awaiting  spring,  is  schooled  in  awaiting  the  incipient, 
hence  the  paradox  of  these  mature  fellows  who  especially 
prize  a  mere  burgeoning  of  affection,  and  write  noble  roles 
to  be  played  by  boys  wheezing  falsetto  .  .  .  Note  also  how 
a  discreet  synesthesia  has  occurred — not  pointedly  as  with 
Rimbaud's  sonnet  in  which  he  states  the  color-equivalents 
of  vowels — but  with  an  imperceptible  shifting  whereby, 
without  knowing  it,  the  audience  has  let  itself  be  taken  from 
sound  to  scent,  has  been  told  that  the  music  sounds  as  violets 
smell.  But  if  sound  was  for  larval  receptivity,  scent  is  a  goad 
to  more  aggressive  ways  of  thinking;  to  the  nostrils  there  is 
wafted  the  promise  of  prey.  No  basking  fetus  now — but  a 
huntsman — though  the  change  come  in  the  disarming  guise 
of  a  bank  of  violets!  Process:  beginning  with  the  receptive, 
he  turned  to  a  tentative  interest  in  the  protection  of  immo- 
bility, next  to  that  promise  of  a  future  which  would  ever 
arise  in  those  men  when  you  talk  to  them  of  a  resigning;  and 
lastly,  a  going-forth.] 

Enough,  no  more: 
'Tis  not  so  sweet  now  as  it  was  before. 

The  filmy  fabric  I  had  built  around  my  notion  of  pure  re- 
ceptivity is  ripped  by  ambition.  Scent,  however  tactfully  I 
have  introduced  it  here,  is  a  more  businesslike  matter — and 
when  sound  has  become  scent,  the  meanings  shift  accord- 
ingly. That  which  was  like  soft  rain  sinking  upon  me  is  now 
like  something  to  be  sought.  Whereas  my  rhythm  heretofore 
has  been  undulant,  a  merely  breathing  or  imbibing  rhythm, 
it  now  fittingly  makes  a  saltation,  as  of  those  that  snatch 
(abruptly  snapping  "enough,  no  more").  In  talking  only  of 

348 


TRIAL    TRANSLATION 

violets,  I  reveal  myself  predacious.  Then  I  fall  to  musing  in 
a  different  vein: 

O  spirit  of  love,  how  quick  and  fresh  art  thou! 
That,  notwithstanding  thy  capacity 
Receiveth  as  the  sea,  nought  enters  there, 
Of  what  validity  and  pitch  soe'er, 
But  falls  into  abatement  and  low  price, 
Even  in  a  minute! 

[Novelist:  He  began  moonily,  and  here  he  has  got  to  sheer 
diagnosis.  Diagnosis  is  the  "aesthetic,"  it  is  "pure  inquiry," 
it  is  a  mere  "abstract  interest"  in  things,  'tis  "idle  curiosity," 
— arising  from  the  primordial  jungle  hunt,  when  anything 
might  be  the  prey,  hence  anything  was  worthy  of  inspection, 
hence  organisms  simply  "looked  about,"  hence  they  became 
"speculative."  So,  the  Duke  has  gone  complete  from  larval 
thought  to  the  predatory  (they  are  both  in  our  tissues) — and 
is  now  critical,  diagnostic,  in  quest — in  such  chaste  quest  as 
their  lustful,  lusty,  unpolitical,  beddy  minds  would  most 
readily  consider  questing.] 

Curio:  Will  you  go  hunt,  my  lord? 

Duke:  What,  Curio? 

Curio:   The  hart. 

Duke:   Why,  so  I  do,  the  noblest  that  I  have. 

O!  when  mine  eyes  did  see  Olivia  first,  .  .  . 
Et  cetera. 


349 


CALDWELL: 

MAKER  OF  GROTESQUES 


ERSKINE  CALDWELL'S  most  revealing  work  is  a 
"sport."  I  refer  to  the  last  story  in  American  Earth,  "The 
Sacrilege  of  Alan  Kent."  It  is  divided  into  three  sections, 
with  wholly  non-Caldwellian  titles,  "Tracing  Life  with  a 
Finger,"  "Inspiration  for  Greatness,"  and  "Hours  Before 
Eternity."  In  these  words  we  catch  a  tonality  of  brooding 
which,  though  so  much  a  part  of  America  as  to  have  been 
pronounced  by  Poe,  is  more  generally  associated  with  the 
pious  satanists  who  developed  the  ways  of  Poe  in  Europe: 
Baudelaire,  Rimbaud,  Lautreamont,  and  the  early  Gide. 
This  work  is  as  unique  to  Caldwell  in  manner  as  it  is  in  mood. 
Whereas  his  other  stories,  long  or  short,  are  written  with  the 
continuity  of  the  undulations  along  a  moving  caterpillar's 
back,  "The  Sacrilege"  is  a  chain  of  brief  numbered  para- 
graphs, each  bluntly  set  off  from  the  rest.  Done  with  the 
solemnity  of  a  farewell  or  a  testament,  they  contain  a  kind 
of  aphoristic  rhetoric,  except  that  the  aphorisms  are  less  ideas 
than  tiny  plots.  We  note  here  a  formal  resonance,  a  stentorian 
quality,  obtained  by  a  swift  recital  of  plagues,  monstrosities, 
horrors,  obsessions,  disasters  and  gigantesque  imaginings, 
set  against  a  tender  counter-theme:  "I  never  heard  a  girl 
whose  face  and  body  and  eyes  were  lovely  say  anything  but 
lovely  words."  Here  we  have  the  symbol  of  the  wanderer, 
driven  by  unnamed  sins  and  called  by  vague  visions  of  a 
homecoming  in  female  sweetness.  The  swift  segments  shunt 
us  back  and  forth  between  brutality  and  wistfulness.  Perhaps 

35° 


CALDWELL:    MAKER    OF    GROTESQUES 

the  grandiose,  the  violent,  and  the  gentle  qualities  of  the 
piece  are  all  fused  in  this  bit  of  purest  poetry:  "Once  the 
sun  was  so  hot  a  bird  came  down  and  walked  beside  me  in  my 
shadow."  A  section  in  Pagany  containing  this  item  was  the 
first  thing  by  Caldwell  I  ever  saw.  For  days  I  was  noisy  in  my 
enthusiasm — but  I  could  not  understand  how  it  went  with 
some  of  his  other  work. 

Now  that  we  have  five  books  to  examine,  the  connections 
are  more  easily  discernible.  It  seems  to  me  that  Caldwell  has 
elsewhere  retained  the  same  balked  religiosity  as  distin- 
guishes "The  Sacrilege,"  but  has  merely  poured  it  into  less 
formidable  molds.  We  may  detect  it,  transformed,  as  the  in- 
centive leading  him  to  blaspheme  and  profane  for  our  enjoy- 
ment. We  may  glimpse  this  balked  religiosity  in  the  symbolic 
transgressions  and  death  penalties  that  give  shape  to  the  plots 
of  Tobacco  Road  and  God's  Little  Acre.  It  is  the  explicit 
subject  matter  of  much  conversation  in  all  his  novels.  It  is 
revealed  by  an  almost  primitive  concern  with  sexual  taboos, 
and  with  fertility  rites  rising  in  opposition  to  the  theme  of 
castration.  In  its  temperate,  more  social  aspects,  it  shows  as 
a  tendency  to  deny  humans  their  humaneness,  as  though  the 
author,  secretly  abased,  wanted  to  "drag  others  down"  with 
him.  Entertainingly,  it  appears  in  still  more  attenuated  form 
as  caricature  and  humor,  the  mental  state  of  "refusal"  here 
inducing  extravagant  incongruities  that  sometimes  can  be 
received  with  laughter,  but  are  frequently  so  closely  con- 
nected with  degradation  and  acute  suffering  that  the  effect  is 
wholly  grim.  Towards  the  end  of  his  longer  works,  the  goad 
of  balked  religiosity  provokes  grandiloquent  moralistic  pas- 
sages wherein  his  subnormal  mannikins,  strangely  elated 
by  the  story's  symbolism,  transcend  themselves  and  speak  of 
vital  purpose  with  almost  evangelical  fervor  (plus  a  slight 

351 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
suggestion  that  they  had  read  D.  H.  Lawrence).  And  in  an 
unexpected  episode  of  Journeyman,  his  latest  book,  Cald- 
well has  even  gone  so  far  as  to  introduce  a  quality  of  other- 
worldliness  into  the  very  midst  of  his  human  rabbit  hutch — 
for  in  no  other  way  can  I  interpret  the  section  (which  Horace 
Gregory  has  selected  for  approval)  where  three  men  take 
turns  at  peering  out  through  a  crack  in  the  wall  of  the  barn, 
while  one  sermonizes:  "It's  sitting  there  and  looking  through 
the  crack  at  the  trees  all  day  long  that  sort  of  gets  me.  I  don't 
know  what  it  is,  and  it  might  not  be  nothing  at  all  when  you 
figure  it  out.  But  it's  not  the  knowing  about  it,  anyway — it's 
just  sitting  there  and  looking  through  it  that  sort  of  makes  me 
feel  like  heaven  can't  be  so  doggone  far  away." 

In  taking  balked  religiosity  as  the  underlying  theme  upon 
which  his  successive  works  are  the  variations,  I  do  not  want  to 
imply  that  Caldwell,  like  Hemingway,  is  preparing  himself 
for  a  return  to  Rome.  His  powerful  story  "Kneel  to  the  Ris- 
ing Sun"  indicates  that  he  can  make  the  change  from  negativ- 
ism to  affirmation  by  choices  usually  called  secular.  In  so  far 
as  he  is  moved  by  the  need  of  salvation,  he  seems  minded  to 
find  it  in  the  alignments  of  political  exhortation,  by  striving 
mainly  to  see  that  we  and  he  take  the  right  side  on  matters 
of  social  justice.  But  as  partial  vindication  of  my  proposal 
that  his  cult  of  incongruity  seems  to  stem  from  the  same 
source  as  his  social  propaganda,  I  should  note  that,  precisely 
in  this  story  of  a  lynching,  his  emphasis  upon  the  playful 
scrambling  of  the  old  proprieties  abates:  instead  of  the  hu- 
morist's refusal,  as  shown  in  his  earlier  zest  to  garble  the  con- 
ventions, we  get  a  sober  assertion  of  positive  values.  He  does 
not  merely  act  to  outrage  an  old  perspective  by  throwing  its 
orders  of  right  and  wrong  into  disarray:  he  subscribes  to  an 
alternative  perspective,  with  positive  rights  and  wrongs  of 
352 


CALDWELL:    MAKER    OF    GROTESQUES 

its  own,  and  with  definite  indications  as  to  what  form  he 
wants  our  sympathies  and  antagonisms  to  take.  Incidentally, 
this  development  suggests  the  ways  in  which  a  motivation 
essentially  nonpolitical  or  noneconomic  can  be  harnessed 
in  the  service  of  political  or  economic  criticism. 

Whether  one  so  apt  at  entertaining  us  by  muddling  our 
judgments  will  be  equally  fertile  in  stabilizing  judgments 
remains  to  be  seen.  My  guess  would  be  that  he  won't,  since  he 
would  have  to  master  a  whole  new  technique  of  expression. 
His  very  abilities  tend  to  work  against  him.  Recently  I  heard 
one  man  complain  that  Caldwell  "has  yet  to  learn  that  the 
revolution  begins  above  the  belt."  And  I  incline  to  suspect 
that,  in  the  learning,  he  may  begin  to  find  himself  psychologi- 
cally unemployed.  A  literary  method  is  tyrannical — it  is  a 
writer's  leopard-spots — it  molds  what  a  writer  can  say  by 
determining  what  he  can  see;  hence  I  should  imagine  that 
Caldwell  would  have  to  develop  by  satirizing  more  complex 
people  rather  than  by  pleading  unmistakably  for  simple 
ones.  But  that  is  a  guess  about  tomorrow's  weather. 

When  I  say  that  Caldwell's  particular  aptitude  has  been 
in  scrambling  or  garbling  propieties,  I  refer  to  his  deft  way  of 
putting  the  wrong  things  together.  An  unendowed  writer, 
for  instance,  might  strain  to  engross  us  by  lurid  description  of 
the  sexual  act — and  the  result  would  be  negligible.  But  such 
an  uninventive  writer  would  probably  be  quite  "proper" 
in  the  sense  that  he  accepted  the  usual  conventions  as  to  the 
privacy  of  this  act.  Caldwell  can  be  much  more  stimulating 
by  merely  so  altering  the  customary  situation  that  people  are 
looking  on  and  commenting  in  the  blandest  fashion,  as  in 
the  comically  inappropriate  episode  of  this  nature  in  God's 
Little  Acre.  Or  he  may  have  Ty  Ty  say,  without  confusion, 

353 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

such  things  to  his  daughters  and  daughter-in-law  as  would 
"properly"  be  said  only  under  the  greatest  of  morbid  inten- 
sity. By  an  astounding  trick  of  oversimplification,  Caldwell 
puts  people  into  complex  social  situations  while  making 
them  act  with  the  scant,  crude  tropisms  of  an  insect — and  the 
result  is  cunning,  where  Lawrence,  by  a  variant  of  the  same 
pattern,  is  as  unwieldy  as  an  elephant  in  his  use  of  vulgar 
words  for  romantic  love-making.  Probably  only  in  the  orgy  at 
the  end  of  Journeyman  does  Caldwell  become  so  undiplo- 
matic in  his  treatment.  Here,  with  almost  the  literalness  of  an 
inventory,  he  has  us  observe  in  each  member  of  the  congrega- 
tion that  phenomenon  which  so  mortified  Saint  John  of  the 
Cross,  the  fact  that,  since  the  body  has  less  channels  of  expres- 
sion than  the  mind,  acute  religious  ecstasy  may  be  paralleled 
neurologically  by  sexual  orgasm. 

In  the  psychology  textbooks,  we  read  accounts  of  experi- 
ments whereby  the  higher  centers  of  an  animal's  brain  are 
removed,  with  the  result  that  the  animal's  responses  to  stim- 
uli are  greatly  simplified.  A  frog,  so  decerebrated,  may  jump 
when  prodded,  eat  when  fed,  and  croak  when  caressed — but 
it  is  evident  that  with  the  operation  the  poor  fellow's  person- 
ality has  vanished.  He  has  become  less  like  a  living  organism, 
and  more  like  a  doorbell,  which  rings  when  you  press  the 
button.  He  has  lost  the  part  of  himself  that  is  sometimes 
called  free  will  and  which  Bergson  names  the  "center  of  in- 
determination."  And  his  ways,  as  compared  with  the  ways 
of  a  whole  frog,  are  distinctly  grotesque.  Caldwell  often  seems 
to  have  performed  such  an  operation  upon  the  minds  of  his 
characters.  As  Ty  Ty  Walden  complains  in  God's  Little  Acre, 
"There  was  a  mean  trick  played  on  us  somewhere.  God  put 
us  in  the  body  of  animals  and  tried  to  make  us  act  like  peo- 
ple." It  is  a  just  complaint  of  Ty  Ty's,  as  the  creature  of  his 

354 


CALDWELL:    MAKER    OF    GROTESQUES 

own  private  creator.  What  the  decerebrated  frog  is  to  the 
whole  frog,  Caldwell's  characters  are  to  real  people.  In  view 
of  which,  it  is  positively  incredible  that  his  extravaganzas, 
imagined  in  a  world  essentially  as  fantastic  as  Swift's  should 
ever  have  passed  for  realism. 

Pearl,  the  image  of  better  things  in  Tobacco  Road,  does 
not  even  speak.  Anderson's  gropers  stuttered,  but  in  this 
book  the  golden-haired  child  wife  who  is  charged  with  the 
novelistic  duty  of  upholding  a  little  corner  of  glory  in  the 
midst  of  degradation,  is  totally  inarticulate.  For  her  there  is 
no  such  verbal  key  as  that  with  which  the  great  sonneteer  un- 
locked his  heart.  Though  married,  she  sleeps  alone;  she  will 
not  look  at  her  uncouth  husband;  she  refuses  to  discuss  his 
appetites  with  him  (she  cries  when  he  beats  her,  but  "Lov 
did  not  consider  that  as  conversation");  and  in  the  end,  still 
wordless,  she  vanishes,  doubtless  to  become  a  prostitute  in 
Augusta.  Silk  stockings  in  the  city,  we  feel,  is  her  noblest 
conceivable  Utopian  negation  of  the  physical  and  spiritual 
impoverishment  all  about  her;  but  to  her  understanding  of 
this  little,  she  will  bring  a  deep,  innate  delicacy,  invisible  to 
all  but  the  novelist  and  his  readers. 

In  this  discussion  of  Pearl,  I  may  seem  to  have  involved 
myself  in  a  contradiction.  For  I  speak  of  Caldwell's  sub- 
human characters,  yet  I  credit  them  with  great  delicacy.  Here 
we  come  to  the  subtlest  feature  of  Caldwell's  method.  Where 
the  author  leaves  out  so  much,  the  reader  begins  making  up 
the  difference  for  himself.  Precisely  by  omitting  humaneness 
where  humaneness  is  most  called  for,  he  may  stimulate  the 
reader  to  supply  it.  When  the  starved  grandmother  in  To- 
bacco Road  lies  dying,  with  her  face  ground  into  the  soil,  and 
no  one  shows  even  an  onlooker's  interest  in  her  wretchedness, 
we  are  prodded  to  anguish.  When  these  automata  show  some 

355 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
bare  inkling  of  sociality,  it  may  seem  like  a  flash  of  ultimate 
wisdom.  I  suspect  that,  in  putting  the  responsibility  upon 
his  readers,  he  is  taking  more  out  of  the  community  pile  than 
he  puts  in.  Perhaps  he  is  using  up  what  we  already  had,  rather 
than  adding  to  our  store.  He  has  evoked  in  us  a  quality,  but 
he  has  not  materialized  it  with  sufficient  quantity.  In  any 
event,  the  silence  of  Pearl  in  Tobacco  Road  and  the  sober 
burlesque  of  the  men  peering  through  the  crack  in  Journey- 
man are  of  a  piece  with  the  strange  albino  of  God's  Little 
Acre,  the  "conjur"  who  makes  the  simple,  lyrical  declaration 
to  Darling  Jill  (herself  graced  with  one  of  the  loveliest  names 
in  all  fiction): 

"I  wish  I  had  married  you,"  he  said,  his  hands  trem- 
bling beside  her.  "I  didn't  know  there  was  a  girl  so 
beautiful  anywhere  in  the  country.  You're  the  prettiest 
girl  I've  ever  seen.  You're  so  soft,  and  you  talk  like  bird- 
song,  and  you  smell  so  good.  .   .  ." 

I  have  denied  that  Caldwell  is  a  realist.  In  his  tomfoolery 
he  comes  closer  to  the  Dadaists;  when  his  grotesqueness  is 
serious,  he  is  a  Superrealist.  We  might  compromise  by  calling 
him  over  all  a  Symbolist  (if  by  a  Symbolist  we  mean  a  writer 
whose  work  serves  most  readily  as  case  history  for  the  psy- 
chologist and  whose  plots  are  more  intelligible  when  inter- 
preted as  dreams).  In  The  Saturday  Review  of  Literature  a 
few  months  back,  Dr.  Lawrence  S.  Kubie  took  as  particularly 
significant  the  absence  of  the  motherly  woman  in  Caldwell's 
fictions,  with  attendant  cult  of  sterility.  And  his  article  gave 
many  relevant  clues  as  to  the  nonrational  linkages  involved 
in  the  imagery  of  God's  Little  Acre. 

In  books  of  complex  realistic  texture,  such  as  the  great 
social  novels  of  the  nineteenth  century,  we  may  feel  justified 
356 


CALDWELL:    MAKER    OF    GROTESQUES 

in  considering  the  psychologist's  comments  as  an  intrusion 
when  he  would  have  us  find  there  merely  a  sublimation  of  a 
few  rudimentary  impulses.  The  important  thing  is  not  the 
base,  but  the  superstructure.  With  fantastic  simplifications 
of  the  Caldwell  sort,  however,  the  symbolic  approach  has 
more  relevance.  Thus,  the  selection  of  extreme  starvation 
as  a  theme  for  Tobacco  Road  is  found  to  take  on  a  significance 
besides  that  of  realistic  justification  when  we  link  it  with 
passages  in  God's  Little  Acre  where  Ty  Ty,  admiring  Gri- 
selda,  declares  that  the  sight  of  her  "rising  beauties"  makes 
him  feel  inspired  to  "get  down  and  lick  something."  How 
possibly  explain  as  mere  reporting  the  episode  in  God's 
Little  Acre  about  the  girls  who  have  replaced  the  men  in 
the  factory,  and  of  whom  we  read  the  dreamlike  statement, 
"When  they  reached  the  street,  they  ran  back  to  the  ivy- 
colored  wall  and  pressed  their  bodies  against  it  and  touched 
it  with  their  lips.  The  men  who  had  been  standing  idly  be- 
fore it  all  day  long  came  and  dragged  them  home  and  beat 
them  unmercifully  for  their  infidelity"?  A  factory  that  could 
induce  such  surprising  antics  must  have  peculiar  connota- 
tions not  realistically  there.  And  perhaps  we  come  closer  to 
them  when  recalling  how,  in  this  same  factory,  where  the 
rebellion  of  the  workers  takes  very  unreal  forms,  Will  finally 
fulfills  his  determination  to  "turn  on  the  power,"  but  only 
after  his  perverted  rape  of  Griselda.  When  the  old  grand- 
mother dies,  the  sight  of  her  face  in  the  dirt  simply  reminds 
her  son  Jeeter  that  the  soil  is  right  for  planting.  Immediately 
after,  he  is  destroyed  by  fire. 

The  symbolic  relations  submerged  here  begin  to  suggest 
themselves  when  we  recall  the  following  facts:  In  both  To- 
bacco Road  and  God's  Little  Acre  we  are  told  that  there  are 
two  types  of  people,  those  who  stay  on  the  farm  and  those  who 

357 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

go  to  the  factory.  Both  Jeeter  of  Tobacco  Road  and  Ty  Ty 
of  God's  Little  Acre  are  the  kind  that  stay  on  the  farm,  the 
first  hoping  to  plant  again  (a  frustrated  hope)  and  the  second 
digging  in  the  bowels  of  the  earth  for  gold  (an  exceptional 
obsession  to  motivate  an  entire  book  about  contemporary 
Georgia,  though  we  may  legitimately  remember  here  the 
golden-haired  Pearl  of  Tobacco  Road).  In  one  of  the  short 
stories,  "Crown  Fire,"  we  learn  from  the  course  of  the  plot 
that  the  fire  symbol  is  linked  with  partial  female  acquies- 
cence; and  in  "The  Sacrilege,"  where  the  "offense"  is  un- 
named, we  are  told,  "My  mother  saw  from  her  bed  the  reflec- 
tion in  the  sky  of  red  wind-fanned  flames.  She  carried  me  out 
into  the  street  and  we  sat  in  the  red  mud  shivering  and  cry- 
ing"— sitting  in  this  same  soil  with  which  Jeeter  is  so  im- 
potently  preoccupied  (since  he  cannot  buy  the  seed  for  plant- 
ing) and  which  Ty  Ty  turns  into  sterility  by  digging  there 
for  gold.  After  Will  carries  out  in  actuality  the  perverse  in- 
clination Ty  Ty  speaks  of,  Will  can  "turn  on  the  power"  in 
the  factory.  But  though  Will  here  seems  to  deputize  for  Ty 
Ty,  Ty  Ty's  son  commits  a  murder  and  must  run  away.  Ty 
Ty  moans  that  blood  has  been  spilled  upon  his  land,  where- 
upon he  is  freed  of  his  obsession  to  dig  gold;  and  as  the  son 
is  leaving,  Ty  Ty  wills  that  God's  little  acre  be  always  under 
him.  Both  books  are  thus  permeated  with  symbolic  sins,  sym- 
bolic punishments,  followed  by  symbolic  purification.  At  the 
end  of  each,  and  following  the  orgy  in  Journeyman,  there  is 
the  feeling  that  a  cleansing  had  taken  place,  that  the  char- 
acter who,  at  the  last  transformation,  is  the  bearer  of  the 
author's  identity,  is  free  to  "start  anew."  All  this  is  magic, 
not  reason;  and  I  think  that  we  are  entitled  to  inspect  it  for 
the  processes  of  magic.  The  balked  religiosity  of  which  we 
spoke  is  evidently  linked  with  the  devious  manifestations  of 
358 


CALDWELL:    MAKER    OF    GROTESQUES 

"incest-awe";  the  plots  are  subtly  guided  by  the  logic  of 
dreams. 

I  am  not  by  any  means  satisfied  by  the  psychoanalytic  read- 
ings of  such  processes  to  date,  though  I  do  believe  that  in 
moralistic  fantasies  of  the  Caldwell  type,  where  the  dull  char- 
acters become  so  strangely  inspired  at  crucial  moments,  we 
are  present  at  a  poetic  law  court  where  judgments  are  passed 
upon  kinds  of  transgression  inaccessible  to  jurists,  with  such 
odd  penalties  as  no  Code  Napoleon  could  ever  schematize. 

The  short  stories  (republished  in  American  Earth  and  We 
Are  the  Living)  as  a  whole  seem  too  frail.  They  are  hardly 
more  than  jottings  in  a  diary,  mere  situations  that  Caldwell, 
with  his  exceptional  turn  for  narrative  and  his  liquid  style, 
manages  to  palm  off  as  plots.  I  call  them  diary  jottings  be- 
cause they  often  give  the  impression  of  having  suggested 
themselves  to  him  in  this  wise:  If  you  were  sitting  alone  in  a 
strange  room,  you  might  think,  "What  if  someone  knocked 
at  the  door?"  If  Caldwell  were  similarly  placed,  such  a 
thought  might  occur  to  him,  and  there  he  would  have  his 
story. 

He  has  a  sharper  sense  of  beginnings  than  most  writers,  as 
witness  in  the  long  story,  Journeyman,  Semon  Dye's  formal 
entrance  in  the  lavishly  balky  and  noisy  car.  Here  is  a  mock 
announcement  of  the  hero's  approach,  done  with  such  a  blare 
and  fanfare  of  brasses  as  Wagner  summons  to  herald  the  ap- 
proach of  Siegfried.  Thus,  the  author  tends  to  begin  with 
some  oddity  of  situation,  which  as  likely  as  not  suggested  it- 
self without  a  resolution,  so  that  the  story  merely  fades  away 
rather  than  closes.  He  shows  a  surprisingly  naive  delight  in 
all  the  possible  ramifications  of  the  thought  that  girls  may  be 
without  panties,  and  he  seems  to  have  searched  the  length 
and  breadth  of  the  country  for  new  situations  whereby  some 

359 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
significant  part  or  parts  can  be  exposed  for  us.  The  basic  for- 
mula seems  to  be  the  use  of  two  unrelated  orders  of  events 
until  they  are  felt  to  be  related.  He  gets  very  appealing  pic- 
tures of  adolescent  love — but  his  most  successful  venture  in 
the  shorter  form  is  probably  "Country  Full  of  Swedes,"  where 
a  family  returns  to  their  house  across  the  road  after  a  couple 
of  years'  absence,  and  their  sudden  prevalence  in  the  locality 
is  amusingly  magnified  until,  for  all  their  obvious  peace- 
fulness,  they  take  on  the  qualities  of  a  vast  invasion. 

Caldwell's  greatest  vice  is  unquestionably  repetitiousness. 
He  seems  as  contented  as  a  savage  to  say  the  same  thing  again 
and  again.  Repetition  in  his  prose  is  so  extreme  as  almost  to 
perform  the  function  of  rhyme  in  verse.  In  analyzing  the  first 
four  chapters  of  Tobacco  Road,  I  found  that  it  was  simply  a 
continual  rearrangement  of  the  same  subjects  in  different 
sequences:  Jeeter  wants  Lov's  turnips,  Lov  wants  Jeeter  to 
make  Pearl  sleep  with  him,  Jeeter's  own  turnips  all  have 
"damn-blasted  green-gutted  turnip- worms,"  hair-lipped  Ellie 
May  is  sidling  up  to  Lov,  Dude  won't  stop  "chunking"  a  ball 
against  the  loose  clapboards,  Jeeter  hopes  to  sell  a  load  of 
wood  in  Augusta — about  ten  more  such  details,  regiven  in 
changing  order,  make  the  content  of  forty  pages.  Sometimes 
when  reading  Caldwell  I  feel  as  though  I  were  playing  with 
my  toes. 


aGo 


THE  NEGRO'S  PATTERN  OF  LIFE 


RUN,  LITTLE  CHILL  UN!  as  played  at  the  Lyric 
Theatre  in  New  York  City,  seemed  to  me  a  deeply  impressive 
event  within  simple  operatic  outlines.  I  had  not  seen  the  play 
which  may  have  been  its  prototype,  The  Green  Pastures,  but 
I  have  read  the  cold  words — and  though  they  are  fresh,  and 
even  sweet,  I  believe  that  Rim,  Little  Chillun!  is  a  richer 
work.  The  appeal  of  The  Green  Pastures  may  have  arisen  in 
part  from  the  fact  that,  for  all  the  honest  pleasantness  in  its 
dialogue,  it  did  contrive  to  exploit  the  old  minstrel  show  con- 
ception of  the  Negro  (naive,  good-natured,  easily  put  upon) 
which  would  naturally  provide  an  endearing  symbol  for  the 
eliciting  of  White  warmth.  Nothing  is  so  expansive  as  com- 
fort— and  such  childlike  fancies  were  highly  comforting.  By 
the  Green  Pastures  picture  of  heaven,  amusingly  absurd  in 
its  anachronisms  and  solecisms,  there  was  regiven,  in  brightly 
new  symbolization,  the  old  simplicity  and  innocuousness  of 
the  "Black-face"  comedian.  One  could  safely  bestow  one's 
love  upon  such  essentially  ineffectual  foibles  and  imaginings. 
They  had  the  lovableness  of  the  incompetent. 

Americans,  driven  by  some  deep  competitive  fear,  seem  to 
open  their  hearts  most  easily  to  such  symbols  of  "contented 
indigence."  Note  how  their  darling  comic  heroes  are  all  trans- 
parent, outspoken,  ineffectual  fellows,  too  scatter-brained  to 
be  dangerous,  too  prompt  in  tomfoolery  for  expertness  in  the 
grim  ways  of  jockeying  one  out  of  a  job  or  getting  the  better 
361 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

of  one  in  a  deal.  Psychoanalysts  used  to  situate  the  appeal  of 
child  stories  for  adults  in  the  ability  to  "carry  them  back" — 
but  literature  is  always  carrying  people  somewhere  or  other, 
so  maybe  the  carrying,  rather  than  the  regression,  is  the  im- 
portant factor.  In  any  case,  the  child  symbol  is  the  symbol 
par  excellence  of  innocence  (innocentia:  "harmlessness"; 
thence  derivatively,  "blamelessness";  thence,  lol  "integrity"). 
And  the  Negroes  of  The  Green  Pastures,  with  their  heavenly 
clambakes,  mildly  disconsolate  "Lawd,"  the  incongruous 
Africanization  of  the  Biblical  legends,  can  carry  one  into  a 
region  of  gentleness  that  is,  in  contrast  with  the  harsh  de- 
mands of  our  day,  caressing. 

We  emphatically  imply  no  censure  of  The  Green  Pastures 
in  attributing  much  of  its  appeal  to  the  tapping  of  such  a 
vein.  The  feeling  is  honest — and  any  work  that  can  manipu- 
late symbols  for  arousing  this  feeling  in  us  is  honest.  But  the 
point  may  serve  somewhat  to  account  for  the  sluggishness  of 
the  general  public's  interest  in  Run,  Little  Chillun!  as  com- 
pared with  the  vogue  of  The  Green  Pastures — for  the  new 
play,  written  "from  within,"  by  a  Negro,  Hall  Johnson, 
brings  out  an  aspect  of  the  Negro-symbol  with  which  our 
theater-going  public  is  not  theatrically  at  home:  the  power 
side  of  the  Negro.  One  White  playwright,  Eugene  O'Neill  in 
Emperor  Jones,  did  partially  stress  this  power  emphasis,  as 
distinct  from  the  child-symbol  Negro  of  the  minstrel  show 
tradition.  But  only  as  a  kind  of  "powerful  persistence  in 
error."  In  Run,  Little  Chillun!  one  sees  a  Negro  genius,  an 
attractive  positive  ability,  exemplified  with  a  conviction,  a 
liquidness,  a  sense  of  aesthetic  blossoming,  and  a  gift  for 
spontaneous  organization  which  is  capable,  I  believe,  of  ac- 
tually setting  the  spectator  aquiver  as  he  participates  in  the 
vocal  and  mimetic  exhilaration  taking  place  before  him.  No 
362 


NEGRO'S  PATTERN  OF  LIFE 
amusing  picture  of  heaven  here — nor  "backward  supersti- 
tion" corrosively  suggested  by  the  unending  nag  of  a  drum- 
beat— but  an  insight,  a  well-rounded  biological  pattern,  a 
"way  of  life."  And  there  was  an  impromptu  integrative  ca- 
pacity as  one  might  find  it,  laboriously  planned,  in  the  Prel- 
ude to  Wagner's  Meister singer,  where  the  themes  are  ulti- 
mately welded  together  with  such  strength  that  the  composer, 
in  his  triumph,  grows  martial,  and  the  piece  ends  with  the 
boastfulness  of  firmly  coordinated  marching  men. 

We  shall  concern  ourselves  mainly  with  the  two  choric 
scenes,  which  seemed  to  us  soundly  operatic,  utilizing  the 
characteristic  operatic  devices  not  as  mere  conventions,  but 
as  the  correct  resources  for  the  attainment  of  the  ends  in 
view.  We  have  perhaps  come  to  think  of  opera  as  a  vast  set 
of  semaphore  signals  for  wigwagging  communications  from 
the  stage  to  the  pit.  The  two  choric  scenes  of  Run,  Little 
Chillun!  restore  our  understanding  of  what  the  writer  of 
"music-drama"  must  have  intended:  a  kind  of  performance 
in  which  the  visual  and  the  auditory  aspects  of  an  event  would 
be  completely  integrated,  so  that  the  tone  of  the  voice  and 
the  flexions  of  the  body  would  seem  interchangeable. 

There  were  many  such  integrated  moments  in  Run,  Little 
Chillun!  Indeed,  the  second  choric  scene,  which  allowed  for 
considerable  improvising  beyond  the  specified  trend  of  the 
plot,  so  combined  the  planned  and  the  spontaneous  as  to 
offer  the  fullest  opportunity  for  the  workings  of  those  hyp- 
notic processes  by  which  the  cast,  like  migrating  birds,  could 
fall  into  a  unity,  and  this  unity  in  turn  could  absorb  the 
spectators,  precisely  as  one  might,  in  observing  the  birds' 
movements,  veer  and  deploy  with  them.  The  other  choric 
interlude,  the  scene  of  the  Baptist  service,  was  a  succession 
of  these  "one-time"  flashes,  doubtless  differently  constituted 
363 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
with  each  performance.  There  are  the  typical  experiences  of 
the  Faith:  temptation,  sinning,  repentance,  confession,  re- 
demption, elation — and  for  each  of  these  experiences  fixed 
phrases  have  arisen.  In  time,  these  phrases  have  been  set  to 
music,  the  spirituals.  Accordingly,  in  the  Baptist  ceremony, 
as  members  rose  to  tell  of  their  religious  moments,  they 
would  naturally  fall  into  these  "technical  expressions,"  the 
"nomenclature  for  a  special  science,"  whereupon  the  accom- 
panying melodies  would  suggest  themselves,  so  that  bars  of 
song  popped  forth  here  and  there  among  the  congregation 
to  fit  the  half-spoken,  half-chanted  recitals — or  at  times  when 
all  converged  upon  the  same  phrase  and  melody,  we  had  a 
choral  number — and  this  process,  the  singling  out  of  a  par- 
ticular spiritual  from  among  the  accompanying  chaos  of 
suggestions,  was  invigorating — it  was  like  getting  hold  of 
great  complexities,  or  perhaps  it  was  like  seeing  little  flowers 
come  up  out  of  the  ground,  swiftly  grow  big,  and  blossom,  in 
less  than  a  minute. 

Negro  voices  have  an  almost  orchestral  range  of  timbres. 
They  do  not  vary  merely  as  ordinary  tenor,  soprano,  bass,  but 
as  viola,  'cello,  flute,  horn.  And  the  Negroes'  interest  in  the 
nonrecordable  aspects  of  rhythmic  and  tonal  subtlety  leads 
them  naturally  into  coordinations  between  the  skeletal  mus- 
cles and  the  voice  which  are  beyond  paraphrase.  There  were 
all  kinds  of  miniature  departures,  permissible  variations 
within  the  fixed  theme  of  the  plot.  When  the  turbulent  scene 
was  abruptly  reduced  by  the  death  of  Sulamai  to  horrified 
rigidity,  the  patness  of  the  device  was  found  to  have  justified 
itself  completely.  One  was  made  equally  rigid — thereafter  to 
ease  gently  from  stoniness  into  something  malleable,  wholly 
pliant  and  submissive,  as  the  members  of  the  Baptist  congre- 

364 


NEGRO'S    PATTERN    OF    LIFE 

gation  softly  joined  the  Voodoo  plaint  and  the  curtain  de- 
scended. 

I  went  away  asking  myself  questions.  For  if  the  perform- 
ance could  leave  one  aglow,  what  dismaying  event  would 
come  next,  as  one  stepped  into  the  street?  Where  does  this 
fit?  What  does  it  apply  to,  as  you  elbow  your  way  towards 
home?  True:  if  you  are  weary  enough  from  the  intense  ex- 
ercising of  your  "motor  imagery,"  with  the  soarings,  bran- 
dishings,  and  interweavings  in  which  you  have  "empatheti- 
cally"  participated,  you  may  be  rewarded  by  hearing  the  sub- 
way wheels  grind  out  pure  notes,  in  voices  almost  angelic. 
But  that  is  a  mere  waywardness,  making  the  city  acceptable 
by  a  subterfuge.  One  is  not  quite  at  rest  with  his  art  unless 
he  can  feel  it  related  to  his  environmental  issues  acquies- 
cently, and  not  by  some  mere  "elsewhere"  quality  relevant 
to  our  present  life  only  in  the  sense  that  any  evocation  of  far- 
away things,  in  time  or  space,  is  somewhat  of  a  corrective  to 
too  gloomy  a  view  of  the  present. 

I  had  seen  a  cartoon  by  George  Grosz.  It  was  a  picture  of 
a  New  York  street,  with  a  clutter  of  shop  signs  extending 
over  the  pavement.  As  one  looked  along  the  street  one  saw 
them  chaotically  beckoning,  each  partially  hidden  by  an- 
other, straining  to  get  clear  of  the  rest,  vaguely  and  imper- 
sonally recommending  something  to  whoever  might  pass. 
They  were  bunched  together  in  a  kind  of  frozen  scramble 
— and  they  seemed  to  me  the  very  opposite  of  this  "folk 
drama"  which  had  somehow  got  to  Broadway,  there  to  run 
for  a  month  or  two. 

The  situation  seemed,  roughly,  this:  I  had  been  witnessing 
a  work  which  revealed  at  times  a  remarkably  complete  kind 
of  biological  adaptation  (for  I  hold  sound  art  to  be  precisely 

365 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
that).  Here  were  ways  of  shuttling  indeterminately  between 
bodily  processes  and  their  "spiritual  equivalents"  which 
could  repeatedly  provoke,  under  new  guise,  "internal- 
external  correspondences"  as  correct  as  may  be  felt,  say,  in  the 
Processional  and  Recessional  of  the  orthodox  service.  Here 
was  an  emotional  organization  maintained  by  the  suggestive- 
ness  of  pronounced  muscular  and  neural  functionings.  A 
"communion"  took  place,  in  front  of  us,  by  reason  of  an  ex- 
hibitionism so  genuinely  felt  as  to  eliminate  the  professional 
aspects  of  performance.  This  was  vocation,  not  as  a  job,  but 
as  a  calling — and  I  can  imagine  no  more  thorough  integration 
than  that  of  suddenly  feeling  "called"  to  do  what  one  is  in  the 
act  of  doing.  On  the  other  hand,  was  it  not  biological  fitness 
for  an  environment  which  had  passed?  It  was  a  survival,  exist- 
ing vestigially  from  an  era  to  which  it  had  been  accurately 
adapted — and  it  in  no  way  seemed  to  "equip"  one  in  the  sub- 
tleties of  the  commercial  ethic  which  had  meanwhile  slowly 
risen  and  spread  itself  throughout  our  thinking.  Here  was 
a  type  of  organization  which,  when  it  flashed  across  to  us,  was 
far  removed  indeed  from  the  kinds  of  knowledge  that  gen- 
erally go  with  political  organization  or  sales  organization,  the 
cooperative  stressings  which  seem  more  apropos  to  our  en- 
vironment, as  the  struggle  for  life  has  changed  into  a  struggle 
for  livelihood.  I  do  not  mean  that  this  vestigial  insight  ab- 
solutely unfits  one  for  the  commercial-competitive  forms  of 
understanding  and  exertion.  I  mean  simply  that  a  race  gifted 
with  such  cultural  emphasis  is  at  a  disadvantage  when  forced 
to  fit  this  wholesome  pattern  to  an  environment  peopled  by 
a  race  whose  imagery,  training,  and  form  of  ambition  are 
more  accurately  set  for  the  acquiring  of  "success"  by  the  new 
rules. 

Where,  then,  do  we  find  ourselves?  A  people  have  de- 
366 


NEGRO'S  PATTERN  OF  LIFE 
veloped,  and  carried  down  from  an  agrarian  past,  an  aesthetic 
understanding  which  is  complex,  subtle,  and  gratifying,  this 
emphasis  tending  naturally  to  promote  concepts  of  the  "good 
life"  which  turn  attention  and  effort  into  channels  to  which 
the  demands  of  commercial  and  financial  conquest  are  al- 
most wholly  irrelevant.  Then  they  are  "cursed  by  a  gift, 
handicapped  by  an  endowment,"  checked  in  the  competitive 
struggle  by  a  deeply  imaginative  pattern  whose  very  fullness 
and  satisfactoriness  endangers  its  adepts  under  the  shifting 
of  the  "environmental  rules."  So  this  mode  of  adaptation, 
inspiriting  as  it  is,  may  be  doomed  to  extinction,  undermined 
by  irrelevance.  Already  the  "advance  guard"  of  Negroes  are 
teaching  their  suffering  people  to  "organize"  in  ways  more 
suited  to  these  nasty  times — and  I  am  sure  there  is  much  in 
Run,  Little  Chillun!  which  they  must  consider  with  distrust, 
attempting  to  stamp  it  out  of  their  people:  it  survives  there, 
in  its  purity,  only  by  reason  of  the  poet's  conscientiousness, 
which  keeps  him  close  to  the  roots  of  his  folk-music.  If  they 
must  "learn,"  they  will  learn,  burying  even  these  profound 
kinds  of  satisfaction  thoroughly,  until  they  have  fitted  them- 
selves for  forms  of  scheming  more  serviceable  to  our  era,  fo- 
cussing their  imagery  accurately  within  the  narrower  range 
of  purposes  bounded  on  the  right  by  anti-Marxian  business 
and  on  the  left  by  Marxian  anti-business. 

In  the  meantime,  the  Caucasians  who  have  made  the  new 
rules  find  themselves  with  problems  of  their  own.  The  thor- 
ough grasp  of  the  commercial  ethic,  the  complete  specializa- 
tion in  ways  of  feeling,  thinking,  striving,  and  repressing 
which  would  best  equip  one  to  meet  competitive  demands 
of  this  sort,  are  found  to  have  pledged  them  to  ambitions 
which  often  make  for  emptiness  as  regards  basic  cultural  or 
religious  gratifications,  and  for  a  compensatory  secular  ex- 

367 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 
pansiveness  which  often  involves  them  in  deadly  quarrels 
with  one  another.  Thus,  the  White  ethic  seems  also  en- 
dangered, as  equipping  the  individual  by  imaginative  devices 
which  menace  both  himself  and  his  group. 

I  guess  it  is  a  sorry  time.  One  hates  to  think  that  such  in- 
sight as  is  evident  in  Run,  Little  Chillun!  must  be  abandoned, 
as  "unequal"  to  the  tincans  of  the  glorious  present.  Yes,  we 
may  confidently  expect  these  Negroes,  if  they  are  plagued 
consistently  enough,  to  cast  aside  their  endowment  from 
a  directer  past,  developing  instead  a  dry  hysteria,  a  steely 
counter-running-amok,  to  match  the  hysterical  running- 
amok  of  their  starved  and  desolate  competitors.  It  will  be 
difficult  to  abandon  ways  so  accurately  attuned  to  the  or- 
ganism, so  close  to  the  orthodoxies  of  the  body,  but  punish- 
ment enough  will  finally  make  them  grim,  and  competent 
in  grimness — be  sure  of  it.  Meanwhile,  we  have  in  Run,  Little 
Chillun!  a  sample  of  the  values  they  will  lose — and  perhaps 
we  may  even  some  day  hope,  should  there  be  any  of  us  left, 
to  regain  a  skill  in  processes  analogous  to  these.  Perhaps  after 
we  have  "gone  all  the  way  round  the  circle."  And  perhaps 
should  there  be  any  of  us  left,  and  with  spirit  enough  to  care 
whether  we  regained  anything,  we  may  console  ourselves 
with  the  thought  that  in  a  repossession  we  shall  be  more 
soundly  entrenched.  We  shall  then  possess  not  "vestigially," 
not  with  the  instability  of  a  mere  "survival,"  but  with  the 
documentary  warnings  that  come  precisely  of  our  having 
gone  round  the  circle,  the  critical  equipment  accumulated 
from  a  rich  store  of  error,  so  that  we  may  be  not  merely 
"primitive,"  but  "astutely"  or  "cunningly"  so — whereat  we 
might  perceive  a  way  of  cultural  (religious,  aesthetic)  em- 
phasis which  no  parched  secular  ambitions  could  ever  again 
tempt  us  to  abandon. 
368 


ON  MUSICALITY  IN  VERSE 


HAVING  had  occasion  to  linger  over  the  work  of  Cole- 
ridge,1 I  came  upon  this  problem:  There  were  many  passages 
that  seemed  to  have  a  marked  consistency  of  texture;  yet  this 
effect  was  not  got  by  some  obvious  identity  of  sound,  as  in 
alliteration.  For  instance,  the  sequence  of  words,  "bathed  by 
the  mist,"  seemed  to  justify  a  bracketing  together,  as  a  kind 
of  unified  event,  for  other  than  purely  grammatical  reasons. 
They  seemed  to  have  an  underlying  consistency  that  gave 
them  an  appeal  as  musicality.  The  following  observations  are 
offered  to  the  Guild,  for  what  they  may  be  worth,  as  an  ex- 
planation of  such  effects. 

Let  us  ground  our  speculations  upon  thoroughly  orthodox 
phonetics.  If  you  place  the  lips  in  the  position  to  make  the 
sound  m,  from  this  same  position  you  can  make  the  sounds 
b  and  p.  Hence,  when  looking  for  a  basis  of  musicality  in 
verse,  we  may  treat  b  and  p  as  close  phonetic  relatives  of  m. 
The  three  are  all  in  the  same  family:  they  are  "cognates." 

Now,  if  we  take  into  account  this  close  phonetic  relation- 
ship between  b  and  m  as  phonetic  cognates,  we  find  that  "b — 
b —  the  m — "  is  a  concealed  alliteration.  "B —  b —  the  b — " 
would  be  blunt,  and  even  relatively  tiresome.  But  in  deflect- 
ing the  third  member  from  a  b  to  an  m,  the  poet  retains  the 
same  phonetic  theme,  while  giving  us  a  variation  upon  this 
theme.  And  were  "mist"  to  be  replaced  by  some  word  be- 

i  This  material  was  originally  presented  in  a  course  on  Coleridge,  given  at  the 
University  of  Chicago  during  the  summer  session  of  1938. 

369 


PHILOSOPHY    OF   LITERARY    FORM 

ginning  with  a  phonetically  disrelated  sound,  such  as  w,  z, 
or  k,  the  particular  kind  of  musical  bracketing  that  the  poet 
got  here  would  be  lost. 

Another  orthodox  set  of  cognates  is  n,  d,  t,  with  d  and  t 
bearing  the  same  relation  to  n  as  b  and  p  bear  to  ra.  Thus, 
the  d  in  "bathed"  and  the  t  in  "mist"  are  cognates.  So  we 
find  that  the  first  and  last  words  of  the  bracketed  sequence 
both  end  on  members  of  the  n  family.  Or  you  could  make 
the  relationship  still  more  apparent  by  noting  that  d  is  but 
a  voiced  t,  and  t  an  unvoiced  d. 

The  corresponding  aspirate  of  t  is  th  as  in  "tooth."  The 
corresponding  aspirate  of  d  is  th  as  in  "this."  Accordingly, 
the  th  of  "bathed"  and  "the"  may  be  considered  as  variations 
upon  the  sound  d. 

In  sum:  n  moves  into  d  and  t;  and  d  and  t  move  respec- 
tively into  voiced  and  unvoiced  tli.  The  whole  design  would 
be 

th  (voiced,  or  hard) 
th  (unvoiced,  or  soft). 

Similarly,  the  m  family  could  be  designed  as 

-b v 

-p f. 

If,  now,  with  these  designs  in  mind,  we  inspect  the  under- 
lying consonantal  structure  of  "bathed  by  the  mist,"  we  find 
that  it  is  composed  of  two  concealed  alliterations:  one,  "b — 

b m — ";  the  other,  " — thd  —  th 1."  2  And  I  would 

suggest  that  the  quality  of  musicality  is  got  here  by  this  use  of 
cognate  sounds. 

2  We  could  differentiate  the  second  kind  by  some  such  word  as  "colliteration." 
Thus,  the  bracketing,  "soft  and  silent  spot,"  could  be  said  to  alliterate  s  and  collit- 
erate  t  (with  t  extended  into  nt  in  "silent"  and  into  nd  in  "and"). 

37° 


MUSICALITY    IN    VERSE 

Perhaps,  in  the  line,  "Fainting  beneath  the  burthen  of 
their  babes,"  there  is  an  overstressing  of  the  b's,  though  the 
wide  range  of  shifting  among  the  n  cognates  helps  greatly 
to  redeem  this  effect,  as  you  get  n,  t,  both  voiced  and  unvoiced 
th,  and  the  n  nasalized:  ng.  Except  for  the  one  r,  this  line 
contains,  as  regards  consonantal  structure,  solely  cognates  of 
m  and  n.  (For  though  the  distance  from  m  to  /  is  great,  the 
distance  from  b  to  /  is  much  closer,  since  p  is  b  unvoiced,  and 
p  leads  directly  into  /.  Hence,  the  /  in  "fainting"  is  a  tenuous 
variant  of  the  b  theme.) 

The  notion  of  concealed  alliteration  by  cognates  seems  ob- 
vious enough  to  require  no  further  treatment  or  illustrations. 
However,  before  dropping  this  aspect  of  the  subject,  we 
might  list  other  phonetic  cognates  by  which  the  effect  could 
be  got.  /  is  cognate  with  ch  (as  voiced  and  unvoiced  members 
of  the  same  family).  Hard  g  is  cognate  with  k.  And  z  is  cognate 
with  s,  from  which  we  could  move  to  a  corresponding  aspirate 
pair,  zh  (as  in  "seizure")  and  sh. 

We  may  next  note  an  acrostic  structure  for  getting  con- 
sistency with  variation.  In  "tyrannous  and  strong,"  for  in- 
stance, the  consonant  structure  of  the  third  word  is  but  the 
rearrangement  of  the  consonant  structure  in  the  first:  t-r-n-s 
is  reordered  as  s-t-r-ng.  In  the  line  previously  quoted,  "be- 
neath the  burthen"  has  a  similar  scrambling:  b-n-th(un- 
voiced),  b-th(voiced)-n.  Perhaps  the  most  beautiful  example 
of  the  consonantal  acrostic  in  Coleridge  is  the  line  from 
"Kubla  Khan":  "A  damsel  with  a  dulcimer,"  where  you 
match  d-m-z-l  with  d-l-s-m-p\us  r. 

This  acrostic  strategy  for  knitting  words  together  musi- 
cally is  often  got  by  less  "pure"  scrambling  of  the  consonants. 
The  effect  is  got  by  a  sound  structure  that  we  might  name 

371 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

by  a  borrowing  from  the  terminology  of  rhetoric:  chiasmus, 
i.  e.,  "crossing."  Chiasmus,  as  a  form  in  rhetoric,  is  much 
more  often  found  in  Latin  than  in  English,  owing  to  the 
greater  liberty  of  word  order  permissible  to  Latin.  It  desig- 
nates an  a-b-b-a  arrangement,  as  were  we  to  match  adjective- 
noun  with  noun-adjective,  for  instance:  "nonpolitical  bodies 
and  the  body  politic."  This  reversal,  however,  is  quite  com- 
mon in  music  (where  the  artist  quite  regularly  varies  the  se- 
quence of  notes  in  his  theme  by  repeating  it  upside  down 
or  backwards) — and  the  musicality  of  verse  is  our  subject. 

The  most  effective  example  of  tonal  chiasmus  I  have  found 
happens  to  be  a  reversal  of  vowels  rather  than  consonants: 
"Dupes  of  a  deep  delusion,"  which  is  "oo  of  an  ee  ee  oo."  In 
the  consonantal  usage,  the  chiasmus  is  usually  to  be  discov- 
ered by  using  the  theory  of  cognates.  Thus,  in  "beneath  the 
ruined  tower,"  the  last  two  words  are  chiastic  in  their  con- 
sonantal reversal,  r — nd  t — r  (with  t  as  a  variant  of  nd).  We 
may  thus  see  why  "The  ship  drove  fast"  seems  so  "right"  in 
sound.  The  surrounding  structural  frame  of  "drove"  (d — v) 
is  reversed  in  "fast"  (/ — t),  with  the  variation  of  a  shift  from 
the  voiced  d  and  v  to  the  corresponding  unvoiced  t  and  /. 

Since  we  are  on  the  subject  of  musicality,  could  we  not 
legitimately  borrow  another  cue  from  music?  I  refer  to  the 
musical  devices  known  as  "augmentation"  and  "diminu- 
tion." Thus,  if  a  theme  has  been  established  in  quarter  notes, 
the  composer  may  treat  it  by  augmentation  in  repeating  it 
in  half  notes.  And  diminution  is  the  reverse  of  this  process. 
In  poetry,  then,  you  could  get  the  effect  of  augmentation  by 
first  giving  two  consonants  in  juxtaposition  and  then  repeat- 
ing them  in  the  same  order  but  separated  by  the  length  of  a 
vowel.  Thus  in 
372 


MUSICALITY    IN    VERSE 

She  sent  the  gentle  sleep  from  Heaven, 
That  slid  into  my  soul, 

you  find  the  si  progression  in  "sleep,"  "slid,"  and  "soul,"  but 
it  is  varied  in  its  third  appearance  by  augmentation:  si,  si, 
s — /.  (One  should  also  note  the  many  repetitions  and  varia- 
tions of  sound  in  "she  sent  the  gentle  sleep.") 

As  an  instance  of  the  contrary  process,  diminution,  we 
have 

But  silently,  by  slow  degrees, 

where  the  temporal  space  between  the  s  and  /  in  "silently"  is 
collapsed  in  "slow":  s — l,  si.  (Also  involved  here  are  an  al- 
literated b  and  obliterated  s. ) 

To  sum  up:  we  have  the  repetition  of  a  sound  in  cognate 
variation,  acrostic  scrambling,  chiasmus,  augmentation,  and 
diminution.8  If  one  now  applies  this  whole  set  of  coordinates, 
one  may  note  the  presence  of  one  or  several,  in  different  com- 
binations. To  select  a  few  examples  at  random,  for  trial 
analysis: 

"In  Xanadu  did  Kubla  Khan"  is  found,  by  reason  of  the 
cognate  relationship  between  n  and  d,  to  be  much  more 
closely  knit,  on  the  phonetic  basis,  than  would  otherwise  be 
supposed.  One  might  make  this  apparent  by  imagining  him- 
self pronouncing  the  line  with  a  head  cold,  thus:  "Id  Xadadu 
did  Kubla  Khad."  "Drunken  triumph"  would  be  a  modified 

3  A  major  factor  that  has  kept  a  consideration  of  musical  reversion,  augmenta- 
tion, and  diminution  out  of  our  standard  prosodies  may  be  this:  that  the  prosodies 
have  been  disposed  to  confine  themselves  within  the  grooves  set  by  Greek-Roman 
models,  and  these  three  devices  for  melodic  development  were  not  so  methodolog- 
ically exploited  in  Greek  and  Roman  music  as  in  Western  music  from  Bach  to 
Schoenberg.  But  I  do  not  know  enough  about  early  theories  of  music  to  be  sure 
that  this  explanation  is  correct. 

373 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

alliteration,  with  dr  (voiced)  varied  as  tr  (unvoiced).  "So 
fierce  a  foe  to  frenzy"  contains,  besides  the  obvious  allitera- 
tion, a  diminution  of  the  distance  between  / — r  in  "fierce" 
and  fr  in  "frenzy."  "Beloved  from  pole  to  pole"  contains  a 
cognate  augmentation  (that  is:  voiced  b — /  becomes  unvoiced 
p — I,  and  the  temporal  distance  in  pronouncing  the  o  of 
"pole"  is  greater  than  that  in  pronouncing  the  e  of  "be- 
loved"). 

"Terms  for  fratricide"  contains  chiasmus  and  diminution: 
t — r,  f — r,  fr,  tr.  "The  sails  at  noon  left  off  their  tune"  con- 
tains a  modified  repetition  of  ft  (in  "left"  and  "off  their"), 
while  "noon"  and  "tune"  are  not  merely  internal  rhymes, 
but  are  constructed  of  cognates,  n  and  t.  In  "dote  with  a  mad 
idolatry,"  the  d — t  of  "dote"  becomes  augmented  by  a  two- 
syllable  interval  in  "idolatry."  "Midway  on  the  mount"  gives 
us  "mount''  as  cognate  variant  of  "mid."  In  "only  that  film, 
which  fluttered,"  you  get  a  diminution  from  / — /  to  /?.  In 
"the  minstrelsy  that  solitude  loves  best,"  we  find  chiasmus 
with  augmentation,  as  per  the  Is  of  "minstrelsy"  and  the  s — / 
of  "solitude." 

There  is  quite  a  complexity  in  "steamed  up  from  Cairo's 
swamps  of  pestilence,"  where  the  s — m  of  "steamed"  is  re- 
peated in  "swamps,"  while  the  ps  of  "swamps"  is  in  turn  aug- 
mented in  "pestilence."  In  "green  light  that  lingers,"  the 
g-r-n-l  of  "green  light"  is  acrostically  reordered  as  l-ng-r  in 
"lingers."  In  "the  spirit  and  the  power,"  you  get  the  tem- 
poral distance  between  the  p  and  r  in  "spirit"  augmented  in 
"power."  "Luminous  mist"  gives  us  m-n-s,  m-s-t  (cognate  of 
n).  "Sleep,  the  wide  blessing"  contains  "si — p  the  wide  bl — s," 
which  is  to  say  (recalling  that  b  and  p  are  cognates):  1,2,3  = 
3,2,1. 
374 


MUSICALITY    IN    VERSE 

Coleridge  also  occasionally  used  the  ablaut  form  (the  Hop- 
kins "heaven-haven"  kind  of  punning  got  by  the  changing 
of  vowels  within  a  constant  consonantal  frame)  as  per  his 
"loud  lewd  Mirth."  And  very  frequently  he  obtained  modi- 
fied consistency  by  repeating  one  consonant  while  varying 
its  partner  with  a  noncognate  variant.  Thus:  "g/immers  with 
green  light";  "/?uent  p/irasemen";  "in  green  and  sunny 
g/ade."  "Blooms  most  profusely"  carries  this  process  farther 
afield,  in  that  the  initial  alliteration  is  by  cognates,  the  voiced 
and  unvoiced  mutes.  An  exceptionally  complex  line  of  this 
sort  is  "blue,  glossy  green,  and  velvet  black,"  where  you  have 
bl,  gl,  gr,  v — I,  v — t,  bl.  Here  the  second  and  third  are  paired, 
with  the  first  consonant  of  this  pair  alliterated  and  the  second 
noncognately  varied — while  the  /  of  "glossy"  appears  as  a 
correspondingly  placed  member  in  three  of  the  other  four 
pairs:  bl,  v — I,  v — t,  bl.  The  bl  design  is  augmented,  by  cog- 
nate, in  v — /.  And  the  design  of  "g/ossy  green"  is  augmenta- 
tively  matched  by  the  design  of  "velvet/'  one  member  being 
an  alliteration  and  the  second  a  noncognate  variant.  It  may 
be  cumbersome  to  state  these  manifold  interrelationships 
analytically,  but  the  spontaneous  effect  can  be  appreciated, 
and  the  interwovenness  glimpsed,  by  anyone  who  reads  the 
line  aloud  without  concern  with  the  pattern  as  here  labori- 
ously broken  down  for  the  purposes  of  anatomic  criticism. 

People  to  whom  I  have  suggested  the  use  of  these  coordi- 
nates (obviously  they  could  be  applied  to  other  poets)  usually 
ask  me  whether  I  think  that  Coleridge  employed  them  con- 
sciously. I  doubt  whether  it  makes  much  difference.  For 
instance,  one  may  sense  the  well-knittedness  of  a  popular 
cliche  like  "team  mate"  without  explicitly  noting  that  its 

375 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
structural  solidity  is  due,  in  large  measure  at  least,  to  the 
chiastic  progression  t — m  =  m — t.  There  is  an  indetermi- 
nate realm  between  the  conscious  and  the  unconscious  where 
one  is  "aware"  in  the  sense  that  he  recognizes  a  special  kind 
of  event  to  be  going  on,  and  yet  is  not  "aware"  in  the  sense 
that  he  could  offer  you  an  analytic  description  and  classifi- 
cation of  this  event.  The  first  kind  of  awareness  we  might 
call  a  consciousness  of  method,  the  second  a  consciousness  of 
methodology.  And  I  presume  that  we  should  not  attribute 
the  second  kind  to  an  artist  unless  explicit  statements  by  the 
artist  provide  us  with  an  authorization.  Furthermore,  even 
where  such  explicit  statements  are  available,  we  need  not 
describe  the  awareness  as  wholly  of  the  methodological  sort. 
Very  often  in  writing,  for  instance,  one  is  conscious  of  using 
a  tactic  that  seems  to  him  like  a  tactic  he  had  used  before 
(that  is,  he  feels  that  both  instances  could  be  classifiable  to- 
gether on  the  basis  of  a  method  in  common).  Yet  he  may  sense 
this  kinship  quite  accurately  without  necessarily  finding  for 
it  a  corresponding  analytic  or  methodological  formulation. 

And  even  if  he  does  arrive  at  an  explicit  formulation  of 
his  tactic,  the  fact  remains  that  he  developed  the  tactic  and 
used  it  with  awareness  long  before  this  explicit  stage  was 
reached  (a  stage,  incidentally,  that  either  may  lead  him  into 
a  more  "efficient"  exploitation  of  the  method,  so  that  his 
manner  threatens  to  degenerate  into  a  mannerism,  or  may 
start  him  on  the  way  towards  totally  new  methodical  develop- 
ments: from  method,  to  methodology,  to  post-methodological 
method). 

In  Coleridge's  case,  we  do  have  evidence  that  he  was 
"aware"  of  his  consonantal  practices  at  least  to  this  extent: 
he  was  "consonant-conscious."  Thus,  in  Table  Talk: 

376 


MUSICALITY    IN    VERSE 

Brute  animals  have  the  vowel  sounds;  man  only  can 
utter  consonants.  It  is  natural,  therefore,  that  the  con- 
sonants should  be  marked  first,  as  being  the  framework 
of  the  word;  and  no  doubt  a  very  simple  living  language 
might  be  written  quite  intelligibly  to  the  natives  with- 
out any  vowel  sounds  marked  at  all.  The  words  would 
be  traditionally  and  conventionally  recognized,  as  in 
short-hand;  thus:  Gd  crtd  th  hvn  nd  th  rth. 

In  the  case  of  a  passage  like  "my  bright  and  beauteous 
bride,"  I  doubt  whether  any  poet  or  reader  is  sufficiently  in- 
nocent of  methodological  awareness  to  miss  the  b — t,  b — t, 
b — d  structure  of  tonality  here.  As  for  the  chiastic  arrange- 
ments, the  closest  I  can  come  to  finding  some  explicit  recog- 
nition of  its  operation  is  in  his  sensitivity  to  reversal  of  direc- 
tion in  general,  as  with  the  turn  from  "The  Sun  came  up 
upon  the  left"  to  "The  Sun  now  rose  upon  the  right"  (the 
reversal  of  direction  following  the  crime).  "Asra,"  his  cipher 
for  Sarah  Hutchinson,  was  built  acrostically.  In  "flowers  are 
lovely,  love  is  flowerlike,"  the  grammatical  chiasmus  is  ob- 
viously pointed,  while  the  attendant  "fl  1-vl,  1-v  fl-1"  structure 
of  "/?owers  lovely,  love  /fower/ike"  is  almost  as  obtrusive  to 
the  ear  as  the  grammatical  reversal  is  to  the  thought.  And 
we  may  glimpse  methodical  concern  behind  the  title  "To  the 
Autumnal  Moon,"  which  is  more  of  an  event  musically  than 
"To  the  Autumn  Moon"  would  have  been,  since  the  use  of 
the  adjective  form  gives  us  an  augmentation,  from  mn  to 
m — n.  (In  effect,  he  explicitly  pronounces  "moon"  once,  but 
implicitly  or  punningly  pronounces  it  twice.) 

In  all  of  the  examples  and  speculations  I  have  offered,  I 
have  made  no  attempt  to  establish  any  correlation  between 

377 


PHILOSOPHY  OF  LITERARY  FORM 
musicality  and  content.  The  extra  burdens  I  should  take  on, 
if  I  attempted  to  deal  with  this  controversial  realm,  would  be 
enormous.  Lines  like  "Black  hell  laughs  horrible — to  hear 
the  scoff,"  and  "Where  the  old  Hag,  unconquerable,  huge" 
seem  to  profit  expressionistically  by  their  reliance  upon  gut- 
turals. But  I  have  here  been  offering  coordinates  for  the 
analysis  of  musicality  pure  and  simple,  without  concern  for 
the  possible  expressionistic  relation  between  certain  types  of 
tonal  gesturing  and  certain  types  of  attitude. 

But  though  I  shall  fight  shy  of  expressionistic  correlations 
for  the  present,  before  closing  I  would  like  to  append  some 
observations  bearing  upon  the  call  of  the  owl  as  Coleridge 
finally  decided  to  form  it  in  "Christabel":  "Tu — whit! — Tu 
— whoo!" 

In  "Frost  at  Midnight,"  the  "owlet's  cry"  is  mentioned, 
and  though  the  sound  is  not  explicitly  given,  may  we  not  dis- 
cern it  there,  implicitly,  two  lines  below,  as  the  poet,  after 
mentioning  its  cry,  announces  that  he  has  been  left  to  "that 
soliu^de,  which  suits  abstrwser  musings"?  The  sound  also 
appears  in  "Fears  in  Solitude,"  where  the  reference  is  to  the 
"owlet  Atheism,  Sailing  on  obscene  wings  athwart  the  noon." 
For  w  is  but  oo  pronounced  quickly — and  the  line  might  be 
transcribed  phonetically:  "oo-ings  athoo-art  the  noon."  In- 
cidentally, as  this  passage  proceeds,  we  may  get  a  glimpse  into 
a  possible  translation  of  the  nonsense  syllables  in  "Chris- 
tabel." I  refer  to  the  lines  in  "Fears  in  Solitude,"  where  the 
owl's  cry  is  given  as  an  explicit  question  containing  the 
sounds  of  both  "whoo"  and  "it": 

And  hooting  at  the  glorious  sun  in  Heaven, 
Cries  out,  "Where  is  it?" 


378 


GEORGE  HERBERT  MEAD 


THE  publishers  of  these  posthumous  documents  print  Whitehead's 
endorsement  as  follows:  "I  regard  the  publication  of  the  volumes 
containing  the  late  Professor  George  Herbert  Mead's  researches  as 
of  the  highest  importance  for  philosophy.  I  entirely  agree  with 
Professor  John  Dewey's  estimate,  'A  seminal  mind  of  the  very  first 
order.'  "  The  editors  rank  Mead,  in  the  pragmatist  movement,  "as  a 
thinker  of  the  magnitude  of  Peirce,  James  and  Dewey."  And  though 
the  reader  will  probably  feel  that  a  philosophy  is  here  mulled  over, 
rather  than  formed,  I  cannot  see  why  he  should  want  to  disagree  with 
the  above  testimonials.  Anyone  who  would  cherish  with  gratitude 
what  of  great  value  may  have  been  piled  up  in  this  country,  must 
study  these  books  (the  journalistic  remaining,  as  always,  for  those 
who  prefer  the  like-water-off-a-duck's-back  mode  of  reading,  and  will 
not  work  over  the  printed  page  except  when  doing  puzzles,  rebuses 
and  cryptograms). 

In  search  of  a  text,  as  a  handy  way  of  getting  at  the  gist  of  these 
1,700  or  so  pages,  I  should  select  from  the  good  book,  under  "Voice — 
middle": 

Middle  voice  {Gram.),  that  form  of  the  verb  by  which  its  sub- 
ject is  represented  as  both  the  agent,  or  doer,  and  the  object  of 
the  action,  that  is,  as  performing  some  act  to  or  for  his  advantage. 

Mead's  philosophy  of  the  act,  in  other  words,  takes  its  start  in  the 
idealist's  concern  with  the  identity  of  subject  and  object.  The  concept 
of  the  Self  is  pivotal,  the  very  word  "Self"  suggesting  the  reflexive 
form,  a  subject  that  is  its  own  object.  The  strategy  of  romantic 
philosophy  (which  Mead  likens  to  the  beginnings  of  self-conscious- 
ness at  adolescence)  was  to  identify  the  individual  Self  metaphys- 
ically with  an  Absolute  Self,  thereby  making  the  reflexive  act  the 
very  essence  of  the  universe,  a  state  of  affairs  that  is  open  to  lewd 
caricature.  But  Mead,  turning  from  a  metaphysical  emphasis  to  a 
sociological  one,  substitutes  for  the  notion  of  an  Absolute  Self  the 
notion  of  mind  as  a  social  product,  stressing  the  sociality  of  action 

379 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

and  reflection,  and  viewing  thought  as  the  internalization  of  objec- 
tive relationships. 

Mead  calls  his  social  psychology  behavioristic,  while  distinguish- 
ing clearly  between  his  brand  of  behaviorism  and  that  of  Watson. 
The  individual's  responses  are  matured  by  such  processes  of  complica- 
tion and  revision  as  arise  from  cooperative  and  communicative  fac- 
tors. The  communicative,  in  turn,  is  formed  by  language,  out  of 
which  arises  the  "universe  of  discourse,"  and  rational  self-conscious- 
ness is  framed  with  reference  to  this  universe  of  discourse. 

We  have  been  hearing  much  of  "democracy"  and  much  of  "dialec- 
tics"— and  surely  Mead's  approach  helps  us  to  understand  the  in- 
tegral relationship  between  these  concepts.  For  dialectics  deals  with 
the  converse,  the  conversational,  while  democracy  is  the  ideal  of  ex- 
pression in  the  market  place,  the  dramatics  of  the  forum.  The  truth 
of  the  debate  arises  from  the  combat  of  the  debaters,  which  would 
transform  the  competitive  into  the  cooperative  (somewhat  as  com- 
petitors in  a  game  "cooperate"  to  make  it  a  good  game). 

So  Mead  would  envisage  the  act  of  reflection  as  the  holding  of  con- 
versation with  oneself — of  seeking  to  contain  within  oneself,  dia- 
lectically,  the  entire  drama — of  asserting  in  the  form  of  an  incipient 
act,  which  is  delayed,  to  be  corrected  from  the  standpoint  of  the 
"generalized  other"  ("the  attitude  of  the  generalized  other  is  the  at- 
titude of  the  whole  community") — and  of  thus  waging  this  internal 
dialogue  back  and  forth,  in  search  of  truth  matured  by  the  checking 
of  an  imaginary  opponent.  It  is  by  this  ability  (implemented  by  the 
character  of  language)  to  put  oneself  in  the  role  of  the  other,  that 
human  consciousness  is  made  identical  with  self-consciousness,  that 
the  subject  can  see  itself  as  object  (an  "I"  beholding  its  "me"),  and 
that  the  subject  can  mature  by  encompassing  the  maximum  com- 
plexity of  roles. 

The  metaphor  of  the  conversation  (uniting  "democratic"  and 
"dialectical"  by  the  forensic  element  common  to  both)  is  system- 
atically carried  throughout  Mead's  view  of  human  relations.  "The 
parry  is  an  interpretation  of  the  thrust,"  as  one  even  "converses"  with 
objects,  cooperating  with  them  to  his  benefit  only  in  so  far  as  he  al- 
lows them  to  have  their  say,  takes  their  role  by  telling  himself  what 
their  modes  of  assertion  are,  and  corrects  his  own  assertions  on  the 
basis  of  their  claims.  To  "silence"  them  by  the  use  of  one's  dictatorial 
opportunities  is  to  deny  oneself  the  opportunity  to  gauge  their  re- 
sistances correctly,  an  imposing  of  the  quietus  that  would  take  its  ven- 
38o 


APPENDIX 

geance  upon  him  by  restricting  his  available  knowledge  of  reality. 
Or  again,  when  discussing  two  phases  of  universal  societies  (the  re- 
ligious, which  are  treated  as  extensions  of  neighborliness,  and  the 
economic,  which  are  treated  in  the  spirit  of  Adam  Smith's  apolo- 
getics, as  the  exchange  of  surpluses  to  the  mutual  advantage  of  the 
exchangers),  he  writes:  "One  cannot  complete  the  process  of  bring- 
ing goods  into  a  market  except  by  developing  means  of  communi- 
cation. The  language  in  which  that  is  expressed  is  the  language 
of  money" — where  the  philosopher  presumably  so  carries  out  his 
conversational  metaphor  as  to  say,  without  irony,  that  "money 
talks." 

The  general  tenor  of  Mead's  social  psychology  is  in  keeping  with 
the  promissory  mood  that  went  with  the  happier  days  of  progres- 
sive evolution.  Here  man  the  problem-solver  looks  with  Whitman- 
esque  delight  upon  the  state  of  affairs  wherein  each  solution  is  the 
basis  of  a  new  problem.  Mead  considers  the  possibility  that,  in  seek- 
ing to  encompass  the  total  conversation,  one  might  make  of  one- 
self an  internal  wrangle,  with  more  of  heckling  than  discussion  (par- 
ticularly where  he  would  identify  himself  with  a  society  in  which 
subgroups  are  at  odds) — but  characteristically,  he  treats  this  as  a  com- 
plicating factor,  as  something  to  look  out  for  and  try  to  guard  against, 
rather  than  as  a  basic  element  of  discord  in  his  picture. 

The  book  covers  a  vast  range  of  material.  Mind,  Self  and  Society 
is  the  volume  in  which  Mead's  sociological  pattern  is  developed.  The 
Philosophy  of  the  Act  deals  with  his  devices  for  transferring  his  con- 
cepts of  sociality  and  perspective  into  cosmological  interpretations, 
wherein  he  uses  the  physicist's  theories  of  relativity  to  his  purposes. 
And  Movements  of  Thought  in  the  Nineteenth  Century  is  a  highly 
serviceable  historical  treatment  of  trends  since  the  Renaissance, 
mainly  centered  upon  matters  of  science  and  revolution.  It  is  a  great 
loss  to  the  quality  of  discussion  in  America  that  the  volumes  were 
not  publicly  available  during  the  period  of  upheaval  and  recasting 
that  went  with  our  attempts  to  refurbish  our  individualism  for  col- 
lective necessities  after  1929.  One  might  conceivably  sometimes  want 
to  put  pluses  where  Mead  put  minuses,  and  vice  versa,  particularly 
where  Mead  considers  social  developments,  in  promissory  fashion,  as 
a  straight  line  towards  a  kind  of  ideal  League  of  Nations.  Again  and 
again,  one  misses  Veblen.  But  particularly  in  his  remarks  on  atti- 
tudes as  incipient  acts,  on  modes  of  identification,  on  personality  and 
abstraction,  on  the  relations  between  the  biological  and  the  social, 
381 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

and  on  thought  as  gesture,  his  writings  seem  to  map  out  the  field  of 
discussion  for  forthcoming  years. 

Unfortunately,  the  piety  of  Mead's  disciples  has  worked  against 
him  somewhat,  as  they  sought  to  preserve  for  us  his  every  word  rather 
than  to  seek  condensation  and  saliency.  For  there  is  another  sense 
in  which  these  books  hinge  about  the  metaphor  of  the  conversation. 
They  are  composed  mainly  of  transcripts  from  classroom  discussion, 
so  that  much  is  repeated,  and  is  said  loosely.  As  a  result,  there  are 
many  paragraphs,  but  no  sentences. 


INTELLIGENCE  AS  A  GOOD 


PHILOSOPHERS,  after  long  telling  us  what  the  universe  is  and 
commiserating  with  the  blunt  majority  of  mankind  too  brutelike 
for  such  refined  insight,  next  began  to  question  their  own  possibilities 
of  knowledge.  The  focus  shifted  from  "What  is  the  universe?"  to 
"How  can  we  know  what  the  universe  is?"  Each  new  discovery  of 
science  put  such  knowledge  farther  from  us.  The  world's  most  thor- 
oughgoing body  of  information  threatened  to  block  out  that  cosmo- 
logical  vision  which  seemed  sharpest  when  the  data  were  sparest — 
until  now,  in  pragmatism,  a  third  stage  is  reached.  The  pragmatist 
says  simply:  "The  universe  is."  And,  the  universe  being,  it  does — so 
the  pragmatist  will  situate  his  knowledge,  not  in  what  the  universe 
is,  but  in  how  it  works.  He  will  seek  to  understand  operations,  to 
find  in  what  order  things  generally  precede  and  follow  one  another. 
He  will  also  consider  himself  as  involved  in  the  process,  will  recog- 
nize that  one  discovers  "reality"  in  accordance  with  one's  terminology, 
that  a  shift  in  the  vocabulary  of  approach  will  entail  new  classifica- 
tions for  the  same  events.  He  will  renounce  what  Professor  Dewey 
aptly  calls  the  "spectator  theory  of  knowledge,"  the  notion  that  the 
universe  is  something  like  an  insect  under  glass  in  a  museum,  and 
that  to  know  it  we  must  merely  go  and  look  at  it.  Knowledge  he  will 
see  as  arising  from  an  interaction  between  an  organism  and  its  en- 
vironment. Knowledge  is  not  knowledge  of  what  things  are,  but  a 
knowledge  of  when  and  how  they  happen. 
382 


APPENDIX 

In  the  present  volume  (The  Quest  for  Certainty),  Professor  Dewey 
has  traced  this  course  of  thought  with  great  clarity  and  critical  keen- 
ness. He  has  pictured  mankind,  in  its  quest  for  certainty,  turning 
to  some  rigid  metaphysical  or  theological  structure  as  compensation 
for  the  contingencies  of  actual  life.  Man  fortified  himself  against  the 
irregularities  of  life  by  imagining  the  perfect  regularity  of  heaven. 
The  consistency,  justice,  dependability  which  he  could  not  feel  as- 
sured of  in  his  intercourse  with  nature,  he  relegated  to  some  super- 
natural realm  of  "antecedent  Being,"  where  it  lies  intact,  an  absolute 
good,  truth  and  beauty.  These  absolutes  are  "reality,"  and  they  are 
but  obscured  by  "appearances."  The  dialectic  juggling  of  these  con- 
cepts, the  vast  intellectual  legerdemain  by  which  "reality"  is  first 
obscured  by  "appearances"  and  then  traced  back  through  "appear- 
ances" to  "reality,"  the  strenuous  effort  required  to  show  how  a  thing 
both  is  and  is  not,  has  given  rise  to  the  grandiose  structure  of  meta- 
physics, an  imposing  monument,  but  one  regrettably  rotten  at  the 
base  and  kept  standing  only  by  hasty  replacements  which  soon  crum- 
bled in  turn. 

I  fear  that  metaphysics,  gentlemen,  is  a  living  lie.  What  does  the 
metaphysician  do?  He  begins,  like  any  artist,  with  himself  and  his 
corresponding  set  of  values.  Then  he  figures  out  that  the  world 
ought  to  be  such  and  such  if  these  values  are  to  be  imbued  with  uni- 
versal validity.  So  much  has  been  done  under  cover.  He  next  comes 
forward  with  the  assertion  that  not  until  now  is  his  process  of  in- 
vestigation to  begin.  Under  our  very  eyes  he  examines  the  nature 
of  the  universe;  he  finds  the  universe  to  be  such  and  such;  and  then 
he  says  triumphantly,  since  we  have  found  the  universe  to  be  such 
and  such,  it  follows  irrefutably  that  these  values  which  I  am  about 
to  sell  you  have  universal  validity.  Having  thought  from  Z  to  A,  he 
poses  as  thinking  from  A  to  Z. 

Now,  Professor  Dewey  situates  the  fallacy  of  the  metaphysician's 
A  in  the  doctrine  of  "antecedent  Being,"  the  notion  that  there  is  a 
fixed  reality  to  be  known  as  it  really  is,  that  there  is  an  equation 
between  the  thing  to  be  known  and  the  thing  as  we  know  it.  He 
holds  that  we  do  not  perceive  in  this  sense,  but  translate.  An  object 
is  perceived  as  a  food  is  taken  into  the  stomach;  it  is  acted  upon  in 
accordance  with  the  capacities  and  requirements  of  the  equipment 
receiving  it.  Further,  what  would  be  the  gain  in  knowing  what  reality 
is?  Our  whole  interest  would  reside  in  how  to  use  such  knowledge — 
and  the  progress  of  science  and  invention  is  evidence  that  we  have 

383 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

already  gone  far  in  the  use  of  reality,  while  metaphysicians  still  lag 
behind,  wrangling  over  their  first  principles.  While  they  were  ask- 
ing whether  or  not  we  could  possibly  know,  the  pragmatism  of  sci- 
ence was  steadily  increasing  its  knowledge.  And  if  science,  in  the 
newest  paradoxes  of  physics,  now  reaches  what  it  considers  an  im- 
passe, so  that  the  old  cry  of  "Can  we  know?"  begins  to  arise  in  these 
new  quarters,  this  is  only  because  science  has  become  metaphysically 
speculative,  and  had  begun  attempting  with  its  instruments  to  dis- 
cover what  the  universe  is  instead  of  how  it  works.  But  whatever 
the  cosmological  difficulties  of  science,  it  continues  to  amass  prag- 
matic certainties.  It  can,  for  instance,  use  electrons  without  even  be- 
ing sure  that  they  exist. 

The  Quest  for  Certainty  is  an  ideology  of  science.  Professor  Dewey, 
looking  over  the  history  of  the  progress  of  physical  science,  discovers 
that  its  knowledge  has  been  the  knowledge  of  processes.  He  sees  that, 
while  man  tended  to  retreat  from  the  world  of  contingencies,  com- 
pensatorily  building  a  structure  of  immutable  absolutes  in  the  mind, 
and  thus  combating  the  uncertainty  of  life  by  getting  at  least  the 
feel  of  certitude  (whistling  to  keep  up  his  courage),  science  went 
ahead  with  its  study  of  processes  and  succeeded  in  greatly  increasing 
the  actual  certitude  of  living.  One  does  not  depend  upon  a  chance 
stroke  of  lightning  for  his  fire,  upon  the  chance  dropping  of  a  seed 
for  his  crops.  Nonmetaphysical  certainty,  pragmatic  knowledge, 
knowledge  of  the  processes  by  which  fires  are  lighted  and  seeds  glow, 
has  increased  the  certainty  of  living.  Scientific  knowledge  is  of  this 
sort.  The  theological  or  metaphysical  system  gets  certainty  by  affirm- 
ing dogmatically  how  things  are,  how  they  must  be;  it  erects  a  set 
of  vested  interests,  which  cannot  be  questioned  without  imperiling 
its  precious  certainty;  it  cancels  by  decree  the  actual  fluctuations 
in  human  livelihood.  So  here,  in  the  doctrines  of  antecedent  Being, 
were  certainties  which  left  the  world  uncertain.  Whereas  pragmatic 
knowledge  is  erected  out  of  doubt,  questioning,  experimentation. 
It  has  no  vested  interests;  to  have  one  of  its  beliefs  undermined  is  a 
gain,  an  aid  in  the  better  understanding  of  processes.  It  defines  as 
truth  what  works.  Possessing  no  certainties  in  itself,  it  has  unde- 
niably increased  the  certainties  of  living. 

Having  got  so  far,  Professor  Dewey  would  now  argue  by  analogy. 
Since  the  scientific  (pragmatic,  experimental,  instrumental)  method 
has  produced  such  good  results  despite  the  many  cases  of  misuse  for 
private  ends,  he  would  have  us  apply  this  same  method  to  the  criti- 

384 


APPENDIX 

cism  of  values.  Values,  too,  should  be  grounded,  not  upon  the  au- 
thority of  antecedent  Being,  but  in  accordance  with  their  workings. 
We  should  not  necessarily  turn  against  traditional  values  because 
they  have  been  derived  from  the  past.  Their  survival  may  in  many 
cases  be  some  proof  of  their  adequacy.  But  they  can  be  tinkered 
with,  improved  like  any  other  process,  and  these  improvements  are 
made  by  looking  to  their  possibilities.  Values,  in  other  words,  are  to 
be  tested  by  experiment,  experiment  either  in  actuality  or  in  thought 
(since  thought  is  a  kind  of  deferred,  or  symbolic,  action).  The  past 
of  a  value  is  used  as  the  past  of  a  laboratory  experiment — it  is  neither 
glorified  nor  condemned,  but  interpreted  in  accordance  with  the 
problem  at  hand. 

Approached  in  this  way,  the  argument  for  an  analogous  applica- 
tion of  experiment  to  the  study  of  values  (the  ultimate  aim  of  all 
philosophy)  seems  quite  cogent.  But  should  we  situate  the  success  of 
science  in  its  perfection  of  measurement,  it  is  harder  to  see  that  the 
application  of  its  method  to  a  criticism  of  values  is  analogous.  Sci- 
ence owes  much  to  experimentation,  to  pragmatic  knowing,  but 
this  method  has  been  reinforced  by  an  instrument  equally  important 
— mathematics,  the  instrument  of  quantification,  of  measurement. 
This  instrument  enables  us  to  test  an  operation  by  means  which 
minimize  the  opportunities  for  differences  of  opinion.  When  people 
can  look  at  the  scales  and  agree  that  they  say  twenty,  or  look  at  the 
thermometer  and  agree  that  it  says  forty,  the  experiment  is  proved. 
It  is  not  always  quite  so  simple  as  that;  the  process  of  proof  itself  is 
often  brought  into  question.  But  in  contrast  with  an  argument 
about  the  workings  of  a  value,  it  is  exactly  as  simple  as  that. 

How  do  we  test  the  success  of  a  value?  Values  undeniably  work — 
but  they  don't  necessarily  succeed  or  fail.  We  have  monogamy,  big- 
amy, polyandry,  polygyny,  and  a  dozen  other  systems  of  marriage. 
They  have  all  worked,  since  people  seem  to  have  lived  and  sung 
under  each  of  them.  Taboo  against  murder  works,  since  societies 
flourish  where  this  taboo  is  prevalent;  a  systematic  killing  of  aging 
parents  also  works.  The  latter  custom  is  more  necessary  where  food  is 
scarce  and  existence  is  hard;  perhaps  to  that  extent  it  is  even  a 
pragmatic  value.  Values  are  all  somewhat  pragmatic,  since  they  have 
arisen  to  serve  human  needs,  though  they  undeniably  may  become  a 
menace  when  they  survive  the  situation  for  which  they  were  in- 
vented, and  the  knowledge  of  the  processes  by  which  they  arose  can 
do  much  to  break  the  force  of  their  authority  in  the  minds  of  those 

385 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

who  still  hold  them.  The  understanding  of  processes  can  clearly 
contribute  greatly  to  the  elimination  of  such  outgrown  values. 

But  the  matter  is  different  with  the  erection  of  new  values  by  the 
experimental  method.  The  experimental  method  would  derive  its 
values,  not  by  authority,  not  by  any  theory  of  antecedent  absolute 
good,  but  by  test.  It  seems,  however,  that  when  carried  to  its  logical 
conclusion,  this  method  of  evaluating  values  presents  difficulties  of 
its  own.  When  judging  the  effectiveness  of  a  value,  for  instance,  we 
have  to  utilize  some  other  value  to  appraise  it.  Though  we  may  know 
the  processes  whereby  people  are  made  fat,  lean  or  middling,  we 
still  have  to  decide  whether  we  ought  to  make  them  fat,  lean  or 
middling;  for  there  is  no  judgment  inherent  in  a  process.  Suppose 
that  we  decide  to  make  them  lean  in  order  that  they  may  run  faster. 
Then  we  have  founded  our  value  of  leanness  upon  the  value  of  speed 
in  running,  which  must  in  turn  be  founded  upon  another  value,  and 
so  on.  Where  then  is  our  "key  value"?  By  the  experimental  method 
there  could  obviously  be  no  key  value,  in  the  sense  of  its  antecedent 
existence,  its  acceptance  on  authority.  Even  a  key  value  must  be  de- 
pendent upon  experiment  for  its  justification,  and  its  worth  could  be 
tested  only  by  the  adoption  of  some  other  value  by  which  to  test  it. 
Eddington  has  already  discussed  this  circular  chase  in  the  definitions 
of  physics,  each  phenomenon  being  defined  in  terms  of  another  until 
you  get  back  to  the  first.  Thus,  it  should  not  be  surprising  if  we  found 
the  same  situation  in  the  evaluating  of  values  when  values  are 
treated  by  an  analogous  method. 

It  is  interesting  to  see  how  Professor  Dewey  handles  this  difficult 
matter.  He  must  necessarily  avoid  a  key  value,  yet  must  have  evalua- 
tions. How  does  he  satisfy  both  needs?  By  his  writings  on  the  nature 
of  intelligence,  in  which  he  praises  the  function  of  intelligence,  tact, 
taste  in  the  formation  of  our  judgments.  For  intelligence  is  not  a 
value;  it  is  a  process,  a  functioning.  Still,  it  is  more  than  a  process; 
it  is  a  good  process.  Intelligence,  if  I  correctly  interpret  Professor 
Dewey's  chapter,  both  is  and  is  good  (or,  more  accurately,  both  be- 
comes and  becomes  good).  It  thus  serves  as  substitute  for  the  key 
value.  For  if  intelligence  is  good,  it  will  naturally  choose  good  values. 
So,  being  a  value  in  itself,  it  does  the  work  of  a  key  value  in  ground- 
ing a  criticism,  for  all  other  values  can  issue  from  it. 

I  am  not  competent  to  judge  whether  this  is  a  wholly  justifiable 
step,  though  I  do  feel  that  it  is  the  crux,  or  fulcrum,  of  Professor 
Dewey's  philosophy.  If  Intelligence  is  good  by  definition,  we  need 
386 


APPENDIX 

not  be  surprised  that  a  system  of  good  can  be  drawn  from  it.  In  the 
older  systems  there  was  something  which,  by  definition  both  is  and 
is  good,  and  with  so  much  given  all  the  rest  could  be  deduced,  down 
to  the  divine  authorization  of  imprisonment  for  failure  to  salute 
the  sheriff. 

Further,  if  the  arbiter  of  success  is  Intelligence,  evaluating  out  of 
itself,  creating  the  values  by  which  it  measures  its  own  success,  is 
this  not  an  intrusion  upon  the  relativistic  thinking  of  pragmatism? 
Would  it  not  be  much  like  "pure"  Intelligence,  an  absolute?  We  have 
done  away  with  the  unmoved  mover;  but  do  we  have  in  its  stead 
the  self-judging  judger,  the  self-measuring  measure,  a  good  so  good 
that  it  perceives  its  own  goodness?  Do  we  face  a  choice  between  the 
circular  chase  from  value  to  value,  and  the  treatment  of  Intelligence 
as  an  absolute  evaluator? 

Also,  the  goodness  of  the  Intelligence,  so  far  as  the  pragmatic  evi- 
dence goes,  seems  much  more  like  goodness  in  a  technical  sense,  like 
the  goodness  of  one's  liver.  Its  goodness  as  an  ethical  good,  a  good  for 
society  in  general,  is  less  apparent.  For  though  the  functioning  of 
a  liver  be  accounted  a  good,  the  functioning  of  mine  enemy's  liver 
is  not  good  for  myself.  The  evidence  shows  more  clearly  its  goodness 
from  the  standpoint  of  the  organism  than  goodness  for  all. 

The  reader  may  or  may  not  agree  with  these  tentative  objections, 
which  seem  to  me  the  difficulties  arising  if  we  carry  experimentalism 
to  its  farthest  implications  and  seek  to  find  in  it  a  mechanism  for 
the  erection  of  values  without  relying  upon  the  existence  of  a  prior 
good.  In  any  event,  my  zeal  to  discover  the  bare  bones  of  Professor 
Dewey's  logic  has  led  me  into  a  major  act  of  unfairness.  For  I  have 
failed  to  convey  any  notion  of  the  sensitivity,  learning  and  vitality 
contained  in  The  Quest  for  Certainty.  Its  incidental  sidelights  on 
the  history  of  philosophy  constitute,  to  my  mind,  a  constant  succes- 
sion of  scores.  The  total  lack  of  authoritarianism  in  his  thinking  is 
forever  leading  Professor  Dewey  into  the  expansive  and  adventurous. 
The  book  is  tolerant  and  inquisitive.  Its  extension  of  strict  dialectic 
by  borrowings  from  psychology,  anthropology,  history,  sociology,  eco- 
nomics, fits  it  into  a  wider  scheme  than  mere  matters  of  dogma  and 
makes  it  an  important  contribution  to  our  culture.  We  see  that  prag- 
matism in  such  hands  can  disclose  its  social  value  without  going  so 
far  into  the  subject  of  the  rock  that  supports  the  rock  that  supports 
the  world.  And  Professor  Dewey's  good  is  certainly  no  tax  upon  our 
good  will.  It  is  not  hard  for  us  to  accept  that  the  Intelligence  both  is 

387 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

and  is  good,  for  we  act  upon  this  assumption  daily,  and  it  brings 
results.  These  results  are  tested  by  values  which  just  are,  regardless 
of  how  they  came  about,  or  how  many  no  longer  fit,  or  how  many 
should  be  remedied,  or  how  many  would  be  incapable  of  empirical 
proof.  Whether  or  not  the  scientific  attitude  could  provide  the 
grounding  for  a  world  of  values,  once  values  are  given  it  can  cer- 
tainly contribute  to  their  better  guidance.  And  it  can  always  play  one 
value  against  another,  relying  upon  a  kind  of  relative  antecedent 
Being,  since  it  can  take  values  which  are  generally  accepted  as  good 
and  use  them  to  argue  for  values  not  yet  so  accepted.  If  the  world 
prizes  justice  or  happiness,  for  example,  we  need  not  seek  the  justi- 
fication for  these  values;  but  we  can  use  them  to  prove  that  some 
practice  is  reprehensible  because  unjust,  or  because  it  leads  to  misery. 
In  this  respect  the  pragmatist  is  strongest  when  he  is  more  like  the 
artist  than  like  the  metaphysician.  It  is  not  gratuitous  that  Professor 
Dewey  has  written  so  brilliantly  of  art,  both  in  this  present  volume 
and  in  his  Experience  and  Nature.  The  artist  says,  in  substance:  "I 
make  this  exhortation  in  the  terms  of  what  has  already  been  accepted. 
Once  these  terms  are  accepted,  I  can  go  a  little  beyond  them.  But  I 
shall  argue  only  for  my  addition,  and  assume  the  rest.  If  people  be- 
lieve eight,  I  can  recommend  nine;  I  can  do  so  by  the  manipulation 
of  their  eightish  assumptions;  I  need  not  justify  my  nine  by  arguing 
for  one." 


LIBERALISM'S  FAMILY  TREE 


DR.  DEWEY'S  Liberalism  and  Social  Action  is  divided  into  three 
chapters:  on  the  history  of  liberalism,  on  the  crisis  in  liberalism,  and 
on  "renascent  liberalism."  About  the  topic  of  liberalism,  the  author 
groups  the  cultural  values  he  most  admires.  His  book  is  written  to 
show  with  what  important  and  desirable  traits  liberalism  can  be 
identified.  He  goes  through  a  cycle  of  virtues,  such  as  peace,  libera- 
tion, "the  development  of  the  inherent  capacities  of  individuals  made 
possible  through  liberty,"  tolerance,  reintegration,  science,  rational- 
ity, education,  charity,  courage  and  hope — and  he  pleads  that  lib- 
eralism, as  he  conceives  it,  can  be  included  in  this  cycle. 
288 


APPENDIX 

As  a  way  of  beginning  his  series,  he  selects  an  ancestry  for  liberal- 
ism. He  sketches  its  history  briefly  and  suggests  a  theory  of  origins: 

The  use  of  the  words  liberal  and  liberalism  to  denote  a  par- 
ticular social  philosophy  does  not  appear  to  occur  earlier  than 
the  first  decade  of  the  nineteenth  century.  But  the  thing  to  which 
the  words  are  applied  is  older.  It  might  be  traced  back  to  Greek 
thought;  some  of  its  ideas,  especially  as  to  the  importance  of  the 
free  play  of  intelligence,  may  be  found  notably  expressed  in  the 
funeral  oration  attributed  to  Pericles.  But  for  the  present  pur- 
pose it  is  not  necessary  to  go  back  of  John  Locke,  the  philosopher 
of  the  "glorious  revolution"  of  1688.  The  outstanding  point  of 
Locke's  version  of  liberalism  is  that  governments  are  instituted 
to  protect  the  rights  that  belong  to  individuals  prior  to  political 
organization  of  social  relations. 

In  this  citation,  Dr.  Dewey  seems  to  bring  up  the  possibility  that 
we  have  the  choice  of  two  different  family  trees  in  charting  the  his- 
tory of  liberal  manifestations.  If  we  mean  by  liberalism  a  "particular 
social  philosophy,"  the  author  finds  that  "for  the  present  purpose 
it  is  not  necessary  to  go  back  of  John  Locke."  But  if  we  mean  simply 
"the  thing  to  which  the  words  are  applied,"  he  finds  it  possible  to 
begin  the  family  tree  with  classic  Greece.  Indeed,  since  he  situates 
such  liberalism  in  "ideas  as  to  the  importance  of  the  free  play  of  in- 
telligence," and  since  such  ideas  can  obviously  be  found  in  periods 
antedating  Greece  or  in  cultures  independent  of  Greece,  the  attempt 
to  chart  all  the  ancestors  in  this  second  family  tree  might  carry  us 
far  beyond  the  "funeral  oration  attributed  to  Pericles." 

In  Dr.  Dewey's  first  chapter  he  is  concerned  solely  with  the  briefer, 
historic  ancestry  of  liberalism.  Here  he  shows  the  organic  connection 
between  liberalism  and  the  rise  of  business  enterprise.  He  recounts 
the  negativistic,  atomistic,  "muckraking"  elements  in  liberal  thought, 
demonstrating  why  the  liberal  philosophies  were  much  better  fitted 
for  sweeping  away  old  resistances  than  for  building  up  a  new  positive 
integration.  He  traces  the  ways  in  which  the  liberals'  doctrines  of  in- 
dividual rights  were  made  negotiable  in  removing  the  restrictions 
upon  profit  and  trade.  He  shows  why  such  theories  can  be  called 
liberal  despite  the  tremendous  cramping  of  opportunity  they  necessi- 
tate at  present.  But  when  admitting  that  liberalism,  as  so  conceived, 
is  now  owned  and  managed  by  the  reactionaries  of  the  Liberty 

389 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

League,  he  notes  a  "split"  in  liberal  philosophy.  This  split  was  caused 
in  part,  he  shows,  by  the  surprising  contributions  which  various 
brands  of  Tories  made  to  the  maturing  of  liberal  philosophy  "in 
alliance  with  evangelical  piety  and  with  romanticism,"  and  later 
with  the  institutionalism,  traditionalism  and  collectivism  in  German 
idealistic  thought.  In  contrast  with  the  older  liberalism,  the  coopera- 
tive aspects  of  society  were  now  stressed,  and  the  demand  for  con- 
trol through  social  legislation  became  uppermost.  One  may  question 
whether  this  revision  of  liberal  emphasis  could  properly  be  called 
liberalism  at  all.  But  it  is  what  the  author  advocates  as  liberalism, 
and  the  names  of  historic  phenomena  are  not  ordained. 

The  important  consideration  from  my  point  of  view  is  that,  pre- 
cisely where  this  "split"  occurs,  we  covertly  shift  from  the  short  fam- 
ily tree  to  the  long  family  tree  as  the  basis  on  which  liberalism  (the 
collective,  social-legislation  kind)  is  advocated.  For  somewhat  in 
line  with  Veblen's  distinction  between  business  and  industry,  we 
are  told  that  the  really  dynamic  factor  in  the  development  of  mod- 
ern history  is  not  business,  or  capitalism,  with  its  attendant  problem 
of  the  "class  struggle,"  but  scientific  method  as  objectified  in  tech- 
nology. Behind  this  method  lies  the  functioning  of  "intelligence"  in 
general.  The  function  of  intelligence  is,  among  other  things,  to  in- 
tegrate old  material  and  new  material  (to  "mediate"  the  change  of 
status),  and  this  integrative  or  mediating  function  is  called  upon  at 
every  period  of  history.  Now,  if  "liberalism,"  as  "intelligence,"  is 
identified  with  an  integrative  or  mediating  function  that  operates  in 
every  period  of  history,  we  have  obviously  gone  from  the  short  fam- 
ily tree  to  the  long  family  tree,  plus  extensions  far  beyond  or  beneath 
Periclean  Athens.  The  implied  origin  is  not  temporal,  but  universal, 
as  the  integrative  work  of  intelligence  goes  on,  mutandis  mutatis,  in 
all  eras. 

I  think  too  that  the  ancestry  undergoes  still  deeper  extensions 
without  avowal  on  the  author's  part,  as  his  conception  of  scientific 
method  becomes  colored  with  connotations  of  love  or  charity.  When 
one  notes  that  a  prizefighter's  skillful  left  swing  to  the  jaw  may  be 
good  intelligent  pragmatic  science,  one  questions  just  how  Dr.  Dewey 
manages  to  introduce  nonviolent,  noncoercive  requirements  into  his 
notions  of  scientific  method.  He  implies  a  difference  in  kind  between 
the  use  of  a  chemical  to  eliminate  vermin  and  the  use  of  a  chemical 
to  eliminate  human  rivals,  but  his  explication  is  vague  at  this  im- 
portant juncture.  Particularly  in  view  of  the  fact  that  Dr.  Dewey 

390 


APPENDIX 

usually  celebrates  scientific  achievement  as  a  "conquest,"  we  become 
aware  that,  when  applied  to  people,  his  idea  of  scientific  method  is 
not  merely  that  of  a  power  but  adds  hidden  connotations  of  charity 
or  solidarity  usually  connected  with  religion,  ethics  or  poetry. 

Again,  when  Dr.  Dewey  celebrates  liberalism  as  the  opportunity 
for  the  "development  of  the  inherent  capacities  of  individuals,"  we 
realize  that  there  is  some  such  adjective  as  "good"  or  "wholesome" 
implied  before  the  word  "capacities."  If  the  adjective  were  explicitly 
there  and  if  the  attendant  steps  made  necessary  by  its  explicit  pres- 
ence were  inserted,  or  if  the  author's  merging  of  science  as  technique 
with  science  as  a  charitable  attitude  towards  people  were  made  the 
express  subject  of  analysis  and  rationalization,  Dr.  Dewey's  volume 
would  be  more  enlightening.  As  it  stands,  it  seems  essentially  Cicero- 
nian. It  serves  primarily  as  a  lawyer's  brief,  in  that  it  persuades  with- 
out exposing  the  crucial  steps  in  its  persuasion.  Philosophic  tracts,  if 
they  are  of  worth,  seek  to  persuade;  but  the  difference  between  them 
and  Ciceronian  exhortation,  it  seems  to  me,  is  that  they  try  at  the 
same  time  to  expose  their  methods  of  persuasion.  I  question  whether 
Dr.  Dewey  could  be  said  to  meet  this  test  fairly  so  long  as  the  am- 
biguity as  regards  "family  trees"  remains  at  the  keystone  of  his 
treatise. 

However,  as  Dr.  Dewey  warns  us  in  his  introduction,  a  writer 
cannot  say  everything  at  once.  And  certainly  the  present  book  be- 
comes far  less  "Ciceronian"  if  one  considers  it,  not  in  itself,  but  as 
a  kind  of  final  chapter  to  such  fuller  books  as  Experience  and  Na- 
ture and  The  Quest  for  Certainty,  books  that,  for  this  reader  at  least, 
did  a  lot  of  eye-opening.  Yet  some  of  the  same  ambiguity  seems  to  lie 
at  the  roots  of  these  also.  When  one  talks  of  "functions,"  one  neces- 
sarily brings  in  nonhistoric  assumptions  of  structure.  The  "function 
of  intelligence"  belongs  to  the  long  family  tree,  quite  as  does  the 
"function  of  the  heart."  History  may  tell  us  how  the  heart  beat  faster 
on  a  given  day.  But  behind  the  effect  of  that  given  day,  there  lies  a 
property  of  hearts,  a  "heart  function,"  that  is  not  historical  in  the 
same  sense  at  all.  The  attempt  to  divorce  philosophy  from  meta- 
physics will  always,  I  suspect,  be  merely  a  protective  screen  for  the 
setting  up  of  metaphysical  assumptions. 


391 


MONADS-ON  THE  MAKE 


IN  a  review  of  John  Dewey's  Logic  (New  Republic,  November  23, 
1938)  Mr.  Weiss  writes: 

He  grounds  the  acts  of  inquiry  in  the  movement  of  the  organ- 
ism from  a  state  of  disequilibrium  to  one  of  recovered  equilib- 
rium with  respect  to  an  environment.  But  if  that  pulsational 
process  did  not  have  its  roots  in  the  nature  of  inorganic  things 
as  well,  his  basic  "principle  of  continuity"  would  be  violated 
and  organisms  would  be  made  into  a  special  kingdom  within 
a  kingdom  of  nature,  forcing  a  radical  break  between  the  sci- 
ences of  biology  and  physics. 

Mr.  Weiss  here  touches  upon  a  basic  problem  of  philosophic 
strategy,  and  from  an  angle  that  may  help  us  to  characterize  his  own 
book.  For  in  Reality,  his  ingenious  work  on  epistemology  and  ontol- 
ogy, he  would  confront  the  issue  that  he  accuses  Professor  Dewey  of 
slighting.  He  would  move  by  transformations  from  the  realm  of 
physics  to  the  realm  of  biology,  and  would  do  so  without  violating  the 
lex  continui  (that  is,  without  the  intervention  of  a  miracle,  a  mutation 
veiled  in  an  ambiguity). 

I  can  think  of  but  two  ways  of  fulfilling  such  conditions.  You  can 
keep  the  two  realms  together  by  either  physicizing  your  biology  or 
biologizing  your  physics.  Mr.  Weiss  seems  to  prefer  the  latter.  And 
having  put  a  biology  implicitly  into  his  physics  at  the  start,  he  has 
no  trouble  in  drawing  it  forth  explicitly  at  the  appropriate  moment. 
He  contrives  this  by  treating  both  physical  and  biological  processes  in 
terms  of  a  biological  metaphor:  the  metaphor  of  eating,  of  digestion, 
of  assimilation.  Individuals,  both  organic  and  inorganic,  seek  to  at- 
tain self-completion  by  incorporating  external  beings. 

We  might  add  a  third  realm:  the  realm  of  ethics.  And  applying  our 
pattern,  we  should  then  hold  that  the  philosopher  may  preserve  con- 
tinuity of  realms  by  ethicizing  physics  and  biology,  physicizing  biol- 
ogy and  ethics,  or  biologizing  physics  and  ethics.  Mr.  Weiss  seems  to 

392 


APPENDIX 

remain  loyal  to  his  biological  metaphor,  by  applying  it  to  this  third 
realm  as  well. 

"To  be  is  to  be  incomplete."  And  to  be  incomplete  is  to  strive  to 
be  complete  by  the  assimilation  of  all  others  than  oneself.  "The  uni- 
verse is  one  where  multiple  unique  beings  endeavor  to  become  the 
Absolute  in  unique  and  opposing  ways."  Every  being,  either  organic 
or  inorganic,  "at  every  instant  is  at  a  stage  analogous  to  that  ascribed 
by  Leibniz  to  his  monads,  but  every  one  endeavors  to  pass  beyond  that 
stage  in  the  effort  to  achieve  the  state  ascribed  by  Leibniz  to  his 
God." 

This  monadology  differs  significantly  from  Leibniz's  in  that  there 
is  no  harmony  among  the  monads,  preestablished  by  God.  Perhaps 
we  might  even  say  that  Mr.  Weiss  has  replaced  this  by  a  kind  of 
"preestablished  disharmony,"  with  each  individual  enterprise  seek- 
ing to  become  a  universal  monopoly,  within  a  marketplace  of  mutual 
checks  and  balances  provided  by  all  the  other  individuals  similarly 
striving,  within  the  means  or  limitations  peculiar  to  their  natures. 

Leibniz  characterized  his  monads  as  "without  windows."  Their  de- 
velopment was  internal,  with  God  accounting  for  the  harmonic  in- 
terrelationships whereby  these  internal  developments  amounted  to 
external  interaction.  Mr.  Weiss,  considering  this  introduction  of  a 
common  ground  as  a  mere  dens  ex  machina  to  save  an  otherwise  fal- 
tering explanation,  gives  us  instead  a  plurality  of  individual  uni- 
verses interacting  by  an  overlapping  of  their  "virtual  regions."  Also, 
in  this  way,  he  avoids  the  picture  of  the  world  as  illusory,  that  arises 
in  such  philosophies  as  Schopenhauer's,  positing  a  single,  absolute 
striving  of  which  each  individual  will  is  but  a  fragment.  The  indi- 
vidual's striving  is  real,  independent,  unique,  in  accordance  with  its 
intrinsic  nature.  Hence,  these  are  monads  with  windows,  with  a  view, 
even  a  point  of  view,  looking  out  upon  a  public  world,  and  seeking 
to  get  along  in  the  real  opportunities  and  resistances  that  the  world 
offers. 

Though  Mr.  Weiss  would  ground  his  structure  of  thinking  on  the 
law  of  contradiction,  this  does  not  prevent  him,  as  he  approaches 
ethical  problems,  from  introducing  a  very  cute  concept,  "privational 
possession,"  composed  by  an  incongruity.  One  can  "privationally 
possess"  what  one  does  not  have.  And,  conversely:  "It  is  perfectly 
possible  to  eat  one's  cake  and  have  it  too."  By  knowledge  we  attain 
vicarious  perfection,  as  we  may,  in  knowing  the  structure  of  the  uni- 
verse, thus  vicariously  or  privationally  possess  nothing  less  than  this 

393 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

universe  entire.  But  one  must  live  his  knowledge  in  action,  "until 
one's  mind  permeates  one's  body."  Only  by  thus  "infecting  ourselves 
with  our  knowledge"  can  we  "achieve  the  only  possible  perfection 
open  to  man." 

I  regret  that,  in  thus  trying  to  report  the  main  features  of  Mr. 
Weiss's  picture,  I  have  been  unable  to  exhibit  the  many  subtle  and 
suggestive  details  encountered  en  route.  I  refer  to  such  matters  as 
his  advance  from  quest  to  question;  his  treatment  of  the  circularity 
in  the  relation  between  epistemology  and  ontology;  his  systematic 
placing  of  the  arts  and  sciences  with  relation  to  his  total  scheme;  and 
his  crucial  chapter  on  "Mellontological  Causation."  But  the  book 
is  hard  going.  Mr.  Weiss  spins  a  very  fine  web  of  internally  adjusted 
descriptions,  and  the  reader  must  work  very  hard  if  he  would  be 
caught  in  this  web — otherwise,  he  will  rip  the  fabric  with  inattention 
and  fall  through,  like  a  clumsy  wasp  that  blundered  into  a  trap  laid 
for  gnats. 


QUANTITY  AND  QUALITY 


STANDARD  procedure:  You  find  a  sentence,  expand  the  sentence 
into  a  paragraph,  the  paragraph  into  a  chapter,  and  the  chapter  into 
a  book.  You  start  by  stating  what  you're  going  to  prove,  you  proceed, 
"now  I'm  proving  it,"  and  for  a  grand  finale  you  summarize. 

To  turn  from  such  mighty  projects  in  deforestation  to  Otto  Neu- 
rath's  Modern  Man  in  the  Making  is  to  realize  how  much  filibuster- 
ing takes  place,  where  we  were  never  taught  to  look  for  filibustering. 
As  against  a  species  of  historiography  that  resembles  the  worst  kind 
of  naturalistic  novel  (wherein  two  hundred  thousand  details  are 
twice  as  great  as  one  hundred  thousand)  you  have  here  an  essay  in 
reduction,  and  a  splendid  one. 

The  contemporary  cult  of  "the  facts"  must  gain  strength  in  part 
because,  by  this  cult,  systematic  plagiarism  has  been  made  the  norm. 
"The  facts"  are  a  species  of  quotation  which  one  can  appropriate 
without  the  quotation  marks.  They  are  collections  by  Bartlett,  signed 
as  though  Bartlett  had  made  them  up  himself.  "The  facts"  are,  to  be 

394 


APPENDIX 

sure,  the  basis  of  Neurath's  book — but  he  establishes  his  right  to 
them  by  a  fresh  act. 

It  is  his  intention  to  locate  the  modern  world  for  us  by  comparing 
and  contrasting  quantitative  aspects  of  today  with  quantitative  as- 
pects of  the  past,  sometimes  with  intermediate  points  showing  the  rate 
at  which  these  quantitative  changes  occurred.  And  he  has  sought  to 
translate  his  exposition  into  the  idiom  of  visualization,  his  so-called 
"isotypes,"  a  picturizing  method  that  is  hardly  new  with  him,  but 
is  employed  so  deftly  and  methodically  as  to  give  one  always  the 
feeling  of  newness,  both  in  the  isotypes  themselves  and  in  the  succinct 
kind  of  text  that,  in  being  designed  to  accompany  them,  became  im- 
bued with  the  same  reductive  genius. 

The  reduction  to  quantities  necessarily  eliminates  important  qual- 
itative ingredients.  Neurath  has  an  isotype,  for  instance,  visualizing 
the  changed  proportions  of  work,  leisure  and  sleep  in  a  day  "for- 
merly" and  "now."  The  sleep  quantity  remains  the  same;  the  leisure 
quantity  has  greatly  increased  and  the  work  quantity  greatly  de- 
creased. But  we  are  left  with  the  important  possibility  that  many 
ingredients  in  the  quality  of  work  in  the  past  have  been  shifted  to 
the  quality  of  leisure  now.  And  though  the  quantity  of  sleep  is  the 
same  for  both  periods,  anyone  who  has  slept  (a)  by  a  traffic-laden 
street  after  a  day  at  the  office  and  (b)  in  a  mountain  cabin  after  a  day 
of  physical  exercise,  knows  that  there  may  be  important  differences 
in  the  quality  of  sleep. 

The  author,  fully  aware  of  this  problem,  attempts  by  a  method 
of  "silhouettes"  so  to  combine  quantities  as  to  give  us  an  inkling  of 
quality.  We  are  shown,  for  instance,  the  silhouette  of  a  town  in  the 
Middle  Ages  and  in  modern  times.  In  each  we  see  a  church  surrounded 
by  secular  buildings.  In  the  Middle  Ages,  the  church  overtops  a  little 
cluster  of  dwellings,  in  about  the  proportion  of  a  hen  to  her  chicks. 
In  his  visualization  of  modern  times,  we  see  the  same  church,  now 
surrounded  by  skyscrapers,  in  about  the  proportion  of  the  hen  to  a 
batch  of  electric  refrigerators.  And  the  same  qualitative  question  is 
approached  from  another  quantitative  answer  by  indicating  loss  of 
religious  influence  thus:  By  coupling  a  rise  in  the  suicide  rate  with 
the  fact  that  religious  authority  is  generally  against  suicide,  Neurath 
interprets  this  change  as  a  quantitative  indicator  of  a  change  in  the 
quality  of  religious  authority. 

But  though  the  beginnings  of  a  statistical  approach  to  quality 
are  made  here,  with  great  ingenuity,  I  question  whether  the  problem 

395 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

has  been  completely  solved.  Look  at  one  of  the  isotypes,  for  instance, 
with  its  neat  rows  of  little  standardized  men,  all  alike,  and  each  "rep- 
resenting" some  tens,  or  hundreds,  or  thousands  of  his  fellows.  Is 
there  not  an  important  omission  in  the  very  concept  of  representation 
that  is  embodied  here?  We  may  recall  an  alternative  kind  of  repre- 
sentation, a  culminative  sort,  such  as  we  might  get  in  the  culminative 
quality  of  a  great  portrait  painter.  Or  otherwise  put:  we  might  dis- 
tinguish between  the  kind  of  representation  that  sums  up  an  era 
and  the  kind  that  strikes  the  average  of  an  era.  As  for  the  average-man 
sort,  statistically  disclosable  by  little  regimented  figures,  often  left  un- 
completed to  indicate  that  they  represent  the  portion  of  a  quantity, 
I  am  always  uneasy  when  noting  that  this  "average  man"  marries 
the  fraction  of  an  average  woman,  together  they  get  some  fraction  of 
a  job,  in  time  they  produce  the  fraction  of  a  child,  and  they  all  go 
riding  in  two  wheels  and  the  bumper  of  an  automobile. 


SEMANTICS  IN  DEMOTIC 


IN  The  Tyranny  of  Words,  Stuart  Chase  has  given  us  a  very  enter- 
taining and  easily  read  account  of  a  study  that  is  still  in  the  course 
of  mapping  out  its  territory,  and  may  some  day  have  a  chair  all  its 
own  in  our  colleges,  probably  called  the  chair  of  "semantics."  Seman- 
tics deals  with  the  subject  of  communication,  meaning,  the  interpre- 
tation of  signs. 

Sometimes  the  students  of  semantics  seem  to  be  stressing  the  ge- 
netic, psychological  or  historical  aspects  of  the  question:  they  observe 
and  speculate  to  determine  how  meanings  arise.  Anthropologists  like 
Malinowsky  throw  special  insight  upon  this  aspect  of  the  subject, 
as  do  experimental  psychologists  like  Pavlov  and  Watson,  Koffka 
and  Koehler.  Psychoanalysis  also  makes  a  distrusted,  but  probably 
necessary,  contribution  here.  Sometimes  the  emphasis  seems  to  be 
primarily  upon  an  attempt  to  perfect  an  accurate  system  of  signs  or 
pointers,  regardless  of  the  ways  in  which  our  meanings,  or  lack  of 
meanings,  or  muddled  meanings,  arise  and  operate  in  everyday  vo- 
cabulary.   The    speculations    of    the    logical    positivists,    stemming 

396 


APPENDIX 

largely  from  the  symbolic  logic  of  the  "Principia  Mathematical 
seem  to  stress  this  aspect.  Sometimes  semantics  seems  to  be  mainly  a 
new  weapon  for  the  debunker  who,  revolting  at  the  balderdash  meted 
out  daily  in  the  press,  pulpit,  radio,  political  exhortation,  goodwill 
advertising,  legal  and  economic  theory,  etc.,  wants  to  find  some  quick 
and  efficient  way  of  dissolving  said  balderdash. 

In  The  Tyranny  of  Words,  Stuart  Chase,  like  Thurman  Arnold 
in  The  Symbols  of  Government  and  The  Folklore  of  Capitalism,  is 
interested  primarily  in  this  third  emphasis.  He  is  looking  for  a  sol- 
vent, a  corrosive,  that  will  dispatch  verbal  obstacles  with  as  much 
speed  as  possible.  To  do  this,  he  first  picks  some  salient  moments 
from  writers  like  Korzybski,  Malinowsky,  Ogden,  Richards,  and 
Bridgman  that  give  one  an  inkling  of  fields  one  and  two — and  then 
he  plunges  into  a  varied  assortment  of  case  histories  where  he  de- 
bunks with  zest  the  thinking  of  right,  center,  and  left. 

By  the  use  of  his  rough  and  ready  instruments  he  does  good  work 
in  making  hash  of  the  well-paying  verbosities  uttered  by  the  priest- 
hood of  the  right.  That  is  all  to  the  good.  But  unfortunately,  the 
same  instruments  also  dissolve  (as  Chase  explains  on  pp.  191-3)  a 
definition  like  this  by  Harold  Laski: 

I  suggest  the  conclusion  that  fascism  is  nothing  but  monopoly 
capitalism  imposing  its  will  on  the  masses  which  it  has  delib- 
erately transformed  into  slaves.  The  ownership  of  the  instru- 
ments of  production  remains  in  private  hands. 

Though  conceding  that  this  statement  seems  clear  to  "a  reader  of 
the  New  Republic  living  in  New  York,"  Chase  contends  that  the  en- 
lightened student  of  semantics  "is  not  disposed  to  argue  with  Mr. 
Laski,  because  the  apparent  meaning  has  faded  into  a  series  of  seman- 
tic blanks.  Laski  is  not  necessarily  wrong;  he  is  saying  nothing  worth 
listening  to.  Knowledge  cannot  be  spread,  sensible  action  cannot  be 
taken,  on  the  basis  of  such  talk." 

To  arrive  at  this  conclusion,  Chase  suggests  that  many  necessary 
ramifications  and  modifications  are  omitted  from  Laski's  definition. 
Completely  overlooking  the  fact  that  a  definition  is,  by  the  necessities 
of  the  case,  a  summary,  and  that  Laski  has  written  a  great  deal  giving 
explicit  body  to  this  summary,  he  finds  the  definition  itself  meaning- 
less. Chase  has  warned,  at  many  points  in  his  book,  against  taking 
words  at  their  face  value,  without  reference  to  their  place  in  a  total 
context  of  thought  and  situation.  Yet  here  he  seems  to  be  doing  pre- 

397 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

cisely  what  he  warns  against.  And  I  do  not  see  how  any  just  theory 
of  meanings  could  require  that  a  writer  give  a  summarization  of  his 
thought  without  omitting  all  the  ramifications  and  modifications  of 
that  thought. 

There  must  surely  be  something  wrong  with  instruments  of  analy- 
sis that  can  debunk  so  drastically.  Chase  is  dubious  about  the  word 
"slaves,"  for  instance,  recalling  that  it  falls  in  with  "a  stock  phrase 
in  socialist  propaganda."  Yet,  applying  the  same  enlightened  test, 
we  might  question  the  word  "tyranny"  in  Chase's  own  title,  if  we 
simply  jumped  on  this  summary  of  his  book  without  reference  to 
the  material  with  which  he  gave  it  body.  And  he  notes  that  the  en- 
lightened student  of  semantics  "never  saw  an  'ism'  imposing  its  will," 
thereby  debunking  Laski's  metaphorical  shortcut  as  though  it  were 
intended  to  be  taken  literally  as  a  completely  and  explicitly  filled-out 
statement.  To  show  that  a  summary  requires  filling  out  is  not  per  se 
to  show  that  the  summary  is  nonsense.  We  do  not  know  whether  the 
summary  is  nonsense  until  we  have  examined  the  ways  in  which  the 
author  himself  has  given  it  body. 

The  difficulties  arise,  I  think,  from  the  overly  empirical  bias  which 
Chase  adopts  in  his  approach  to  the  subject  of  meaning.  Empiricism 
is,  of  course,  a  philosophy — one  among  several — but  Chase  begins  by 
adopting  it  under  the  "down  with  philosophy"  slogan.  Other  philoso- 
phies are  philosophies — his  own  is  just  sound  "fact."  He  proposes  to 
try  meanings  by  the  reassuring  test  of  seeing,  touching,  feeling, 
weighing,  smelling.  Hence,  since  many  meanings  are  interpretations 
of  relationships  as  disclosed  from  a  certain  perspective  or  point  of 
view,  you  are  going  to  find  a  lot  of  very  necessary  meanings  dissolved, 
once  you  permit  a  man  to  impose  a  naively  empiricist  philosophy  in 
the  name  of  anti-philosophy. 

Chase  also  bolsters  up  this  approach  appealingly  by  borrowings 
from  Bridgman's  philosophy  of  physical  science,  called  "operational- 
ism."  According  to  this,  the  meaning  of  a  concept  is  to  be  tested  by 
some  actual  operation  performed  in  a  laboratory,  or  recorded  on  a 
meter  reading.  There  is  no  point  here  in  attempting  a  critique  of 
Bridgman's  theory.  (The  reader  is  referred  to  a  very  stimulating  arti- 
cle on  the  subject  by  R.  B.  Lindsay  in  Philosophy  of  Science,  October, 
1937.)  My  present  point  is  that,  even  if  we  granted  its  validity  for 
the  physical  sciences  (despite  several  centuries  of  fruitful  scientific 
development  done  largely  in  violation  of  it),  we  could  still  legiti- 
mately demand  that  Chase  offer  explicit  reasons  why  one  may  forcibly 

398 


APPENDIX 

induce  the  migration  of  this  perspective  from  the  realm  of  physics 
to  the  realm  of  social  relationships.  The  migration  may  be  justified, 
but  the  justification  is  not  offered.  Chase,  by  the  unconscious  ruse  of 
putting  forth  his  philosophy  in  the  name  of  anti-philosophy,  spares 
himself  the  trouble;  a  perspective  is  simply  made  to  migrate  from 
one  realm  to  another,  with  no  discussion  of  this  migratory  process 
itself,  no  discussion  of  the  metaphorical  function  that  arises  when 
such  migration  takes  place. 

It  is  my  suspicion  that,  if  you  would  seek  an  "operation"  or  a 
meter  reading,  or  a  test  of  seeing,  feeling,  tasting,  when  you  come  to 
the  interpretation  of  a  relationship  as  disclosed  from  a  given  per- 
spective, you  are  going  to  debunk  meanings  with  a  vengeance.  So 
thoroughly,  in  fact,  that  whenever  you  want  to  stop  debunking,  and 
would  adopt  a  positive  policy  of  your  own,  you  can  do  so  only  by 
pulling  your  punch  and  not  applying  to  yourself  the  solvent  you  ap- 
ply to  your  opponents.  Thus,  when  in  a  pure  debunking  mood,  Chase 
dismisses  "the  going  canons  of  philosophy,  theology  and  the  rest"  on 
the  ground  that  they  deal  with  "ideas  and  purposes."  He  distrusts  a 
concern  with  such  matters  as  "purposes,"  because  you  can't  see  them, 
touch  them,  test  them  "operationally."  But  when  he  is  in  a  norma- 
tive, hortatory  mood,  he  writes,  "The  controlling  issue,  the  real  task 
for  statesmen,  is  to  find  the  human  purpose  to  be  accomplished  in 
a  given  situation."  So  far  as  I  can  see,  you  could  not  do  this  unless 
you  offered,  implicitly,  a  philosophy  of  human  purpose. 

So  I  question  whether  it  is  legitimate  for  a  writer  to  save  himself 
embarrassment  by  putting  forward  a  philosophy  under  the  name  of 
no  philosophy,  a  device  that  enables  him  simply  to  avoid  the  issues 
at  every  important  point.  I  question  whether  a  theory  of  meanings 
can  be  put  forward  simply  in  the  reassuring  name  of  "the  facts." 
Rather,  the  student  of  communication  must  evolve  an  explicit 
critique  concerned  with  the  processes  of  making  judgments,  of  put- 
ting forth  structures  of  judgments,  or  rationalizing  these  structures 
(by  tests  of  internal  consistency),  of  showing  their  scope  and  relevancy 
to  human  situations,  of  verbalizing  the  role  played  by  metaphorical 
migrations  (transplanted  perspectives)  in  the  interpretative  process. 
References  to  apples,  skins,  cats,  caterpillars,  and  meter  readings 
sound  homey,  and  as  such  contribute  solace  by  making  a  complex 
field  look  simple.  But  those  who  would  banish  philosophy  from  the 
study  of  meaning  must  simply  make  a  show  of  throwing  out  by  the 
front  door  what  they  covertly  smuggle  in  again  by  the  back  door. 

399 


CORROSIVE  WITHOUT  CORRECTIVE 


ARNOLD'S  The  Folklore  of  Capitalism  is  a  continuation  and  am- 
plification of  his  The  Symbols  of  Government.  Perhaps  it  is  more 
profitably  to  be  approached  as  a  lexicon  than  as  an  argument.  For 
it  is  attempting  to  chart  some  hitherto  uncharted  areas  of  speculation, 
particularly  as  to  the  relations  between  business  and  politics;  and 
such  attempts  are  necessarily  more  concerned  with  the  rounding  out 
of  a  point  of  view,  suggesting  a  perspective  by  giving  examples  of 
its  major  aspects,  than  with  rigorous  advance  from  premise  to  conclu- 
sion. Arnold  himself  names  this  perspective  "Political  Dynamics," 
which  is  probably  as  good  a  trade  name  as  any.  But  for  purposes  of 
general  location,  I  think  we  could  class  it,  with  Mannheim's  Ideology 
and  Utopia,  as  a  contribution  to  the  sociology  of  politics. 

Arnold's  analysis  of  capitalism's  dilemmas  and  antics  seems  at 
once  on  the  track  and  off  the  track.  And  it  is  not  easy  to  differentiate 
one  phase  from  the  other,  without  relying  merely  on  appeal  to  preju- 
dice. Above  all,  a  reviewer  should  not  allow  his  reservations  to  ob- 
scure his  obligations  as  a  mere  reporter  of  the  book's  contents.  For 
to  my  mind,  everyone  interested  in  the  techniques  of  propaganda 
should  read  The  Folklore  of  Capitalism,  quite  as  he  should  read 
Jeremy  Bentham  and  Thorstein  Veblen. 

Attempting  to  simplify  a  complex  volume,  I  should  reduce  The 
Folklore  of  Capitalism  to  two  main  strands:  the  one  that,  by  my  no- 
tion, puts  it  on  the  track,  and  the  one  that  puts  it  off.  Both  exemplify 
the  use  of  planned  incongruity  for  interpretative  purposes. 

By  planned  incongruity  I  mean  a  rational  prodding  or  coaching 
of  language  so  as  to  see  around  the  corner  of  everyday  usage.  Im- 
pressed by  the  great  development  of  machinery,  for  instance,  many 
thinkers  have  sought  to  explain  the  workings  of  human  beings  after 
the  analogy  of  the  machine.  Or  others,  impressed  by  the  documents 
of  biological  evolution,  have  sought  to  explain  the  workings  of 
human  beings  after  the  analogy  of  apes.  Such  modes  of  interpretation 
would  be  examples  of  planned  incongruity,  whereby  the  thinker 
400 


APPENDIX 

coached  the  migration  of  a  perspective  from  its  special  area  into  a 
wider  area.  This  would  be  a  kind  of  metaphorical  projection. 

One  can  very  easily  coach  words  in  this  way,  by  subjecting  them  to 
a  junctional  test.  For  instance,  not  many  years  ago,  when  men  spoke 
of  morals  or  ethics,  they  meant  only  good  morals,  good  ethics.  But 
suppose  you  apply  a  purely  functional  approach  to  some  term  like 
moral  code.  You  say,  "morality  is  as  morality  does,"  whereupon  you 
may  with  propriety  speak  of  criminal  ethics,  the  moral  code  of  gam- 
blers, etc.  By  simply  passing  over  the  barriers  of  the  word,  as  built 
up  in  the  pieties  of  everyday  usage,  and  rationally  using  it  instead 
to  name  a  function  or  process,  you  may  coach  it  to  migrate  beyond 
its  customary  barriers,  often  with  valuable  interpretative  results. 

Arnold's  book  seems  to  gravitate  about  two  such  metaphorical  pro- 
jections. One  is  the  mode  of  interpretation  obtained  by  projecting 
(and  then  toning  down)  the  perspective  of  the  psychiatric  institu- 
tion until  it  covers  all  human  relations.  This  leads  to  a  picture  of 
society  as  a  farce,  hilarious  on  the  surface  but  somewhat  grim  in  its 
ultimate  implications.  I  should  call  this  the  dubious  aspect  of  Ar- 
nold's book,  though  it  contributes  much  to  its  value  as  entertainment. 
The  dramatic  and  ritualistic  elements  he  notes  in  the  historic  process 
are,  I  think,  given  a  radically  false  interpretation,  by  reason  of  the 
quality  of  indictment  inherent  in  this  psychiatric  perspective  itself. 

The  useful  projection,  for  interpretative  purposes,  is  in  the  amply 
documented  transformation  he  performs  upon  the  word  "govern- 
ment." In  the  pieties  of  popular  usage,  business  and  government  are 
usually  treated  as  opposites.  Arnold,  by  subjecting  the  words  to  a 
functional  treatment,  sees  beyond  this  piety.  As  you  read,  in  partic- 
ular his  ironic  chapters  on  "The  Benevolence  of  Taxation  by  Private 
Organization"  and  "The  Malevolence  of  Taxation  by  Government," 
you  find  accumulated  a  mass  of  clearly  pointed  material  that  is  per- 
fectly designed  to  dissolve  the  quackery  of  such  writers  as  Walter 
Lippmann,  Mark  Sullivan,  and  Dorothy  Thompson.  Arnold  makes 
it  apparent  that  business  is  purely  and  simply  a  government,  and  a 
nondemocratic  form  of  government  at  that,  even  having  its  own  regu- 
larized modes  of  taxation.  In  fact,  he  clearly  shows  how  this  business 
government  has  repeatedly  resorted  to  the  capital  levy,  despite  the 
fact  that  such  a  notion  strikes  horror  into  the  hearts  of  our  conserva- 
tives when  presented  in  political  forms. 

I  should  also  salute  a  chapter  like  "The  Ritual  of  Corporate  Re- 
401 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

organization,"  in  which  Arnold  amasses  from  many  contemporary 
sources  the  evidence  disclosing  the  unreal  and  filmy  nature  of  the  con- 
cept of  property  under  finance  capitalism,  and  the  ways  in  which  this 
breach  between  legalistic  ideals  and  practical  actualities  is  manip- 
ulated to  the  advantage  of  insiders. 

Again  and  again,  however,  the  author's  showmanship  leads  him 
to  overstress  the  part  played  by  ritual  in  the  judicial  pronounce- 
ments of  our  legal  and  economic  priesthood.  The  picturesqueness 
of  his  farce,  for  instance,  is  greatly  heightened,  at  the  expense  of  inter- 
pretative accuracy,  by  playing  down  the  factor  of  interests  behind  the 
continual  shifting  of  principles  and  ideals.  Suppose,  for  example,  you 
were  to  give  a  general  picture  summarizing,  through  the  course  of 
American  history,  the  continual  shifting  back  and  forth  between 
state's  rights  and  federalism.  You  would  find  the  same  group  on  one 
side  of  the  issue  one  day  and  on  the  other  side  the  next.  Then  sup- 
pose that,  for  purposes  of  farce,  you  simply  made  a  composite  picture 
of  all  such  shifting.  By  simply  playing  up  the  verbal  and  logical  con- 
tradictions, and  playing  down  the  consistent  pressure  of  the  interests 
behind  them,  you  might  put  on  a  good  show  that  entertained  by 
making  people  look  extremely  irrational.  But  your  result  at  this  point 
would  be  more  valuable  as  entertainment  than  as  diagnosis. 

When  reading  Arnold's  composite  picture  of  such  endless  shifting, 
and  hearing  him  explain  it  by  stressing  it  as  a  purely  ritualistic  act,  you 
make  a  paradoxical  discovery.  You  find  that  a  man  who  continually 
refers  such  antics  to  the  pressure  of  interests,  no  matter  how  mean 
these  interests  may  be,  would  actually  enable  you  to  receive  a  much 
less  desolating  picture  of  human  motives  than  the  one  Arnold  paints. 
For  you  at  least  have  a  process  essentially  rational,  however  compli- 
cated it  may  become  as  the  result  of  other  factors.  But  Arnold's  ver- 
sion of  human  motivation,  by  attributing  mainly  to  ritual  the  cause 
of  men's  "inconsistent,  irrational,  and  illogical"  shifts  in  thinking, 
makes  even  downright  hypocrisy  on  the  part  of  our  reactionaries  seem 
an  almost  wholesome  motive,  by  comparison. 

Arnold  justifies  his  farce  on  ritual  in  an  appealing  way,  I  must 
admit.  He  contends  that  history,  being  a  dramatic  process,  must  be 
approached  as  drama.  And  since  ritual  is  an  aspect  of  drama,  we  seem 
to  get  from  such  a  view  a  justifiable  ground  for  playing  up  the  ritual- 
istic and  playing  down  the  factor  of  interests  in  his  picture  of  the 
human  drama.  The  deception  here  arises,  I  think,  from  the  fact  that 
Arnold  does  not  base  his  dramatic  metaphor  upon  a  preparatory 
402 


APPENDIX 

analysis  of  drama  itself.  A  couple  of  passing  references  to  hero  and 
villain  in  melodrama,  with  passing  references  to  the  dramatic  na- 
ture of  trial  by  combat  in  the  law  court,  are  the  nearest  he  comes 
to  explicit  dramatic  criticism,  as  a  basis  for  the  remarks  about  drama 
and  ritual  that  flicker  about  the  edge  of  his  book  throughout.  As  it 
is,  you  get  here  a  glancing  reference  to  art  without  an  explicit  study 
and  philosophy  of  art. 

The  dramatist  is  not  only  a  ritualist.  Or  rather,  ritual  itself  is  not 
merely  a  lot  of  passes  in  the  air.  The  dramatic  ritual  materializes, 
and  does  so  by  reference  to  an  audience's  interests.  Arnold  is  appar- 
ently a  rationalist  who  has  simply  kicked  over  the  traces,  getting  a  flat 
irrationalist  antithesis.  His  version  of  drama  is  simply  legal  principle 
in  reverse.  In  going  from  the  ideals  of  law  to  drama,  he  got  farce 
(i.  e.,  legal  ideals  turned  upside  down).  Had  he  begun  with  drama,  I 
think  that  both  the  uses  and  misuses  of  law  could  have  fallen  into 
place,  with  more  definite  relation  to  the  rational  pressure  of  inter- 
ests. 

Toward  the  end  of  the  book  there  is  a  noticeable  chastening,  as 
Arnold  begins  to  feel  the  necessity  for  a  more  positive  statement.  So, 
what  in  his  earlier  work  he  had  made  ludicrous  as  principles,  and  in 
the  earlier  portion  of  this  one  is  taken  for  a  ride  as  abstract  ideals, 
is  subsequently  restored  to  good  favor,  by  an  apparently  unconscious 
subterfuge,  in  the  name  of  propositions  and  a  philosophy.  Thus,  to 
keep  his  universal  corrosive  from  corroding  everything,  he  must  cheat 
a  bit.  So  he  resorts  to  a  little  contraband,  as  he  begins  to  discern  the 
fact  that  not  only  do  organizations  play  their  part  in  twisting  ideals, 
but  also  that  ideals  play  their  part  in  guiding  the  rise  of  new  organi- 
zations. But  they  are  brought  back,  not  as  ideals,  since  that  would 
spoil  the  symmetry  of  his  book  (he  had  already  made  perfect  hash 
of  ideals).  So  he  brings  them  back  in  the  name  of  propositions,  thereby 
saving  face. 

All  told,  there  are  several  countermovements  going  on  at  once  in 
this  book,  as  is  probably  inevitable  in  an  investigation  of  this  sort 
at  this  time.  And  Arnold's  great  respect  for  administrative  tribunals 
in  contrast  with  courts  very  well  might,  if  carried  out,  tend  to  per- 
fect and  regularize  an  N.R.A.  economic  structure  that  perpetuated 
the  present  privileged  status  of  business  leaders  rather  than  depos- 
ing them.  On  this  point,  however,  the  book  is  vague,  since  there  is 
also  a  general  tendency  favoring  the  increase  of  political  govern- 
ment's activity,  which  would  probably  entail  a  corresponding  atrophy 

403 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

of  private,  business  government.  Such  elements  in  the  book  are  as 
uncertain  as  they  are  in  the  contemporary  scene  itself.  In  short,  the 
vacillations  in  the  book  reflect  the  present  economic  conflicts,  so  that 
The  Folklore  of  Capitalism  is  more  valuable  in  picturing  for  disin- 
tegrative purposes  the  breach  between  capitalism's  slogans  and  capi- 
talism's realities  than  in  developing  a  positive  program.  But  the  main 
reason  why  I  think  it  should  be  read  is  for  its  shrewd  comments  on 
the  practices  of  both  our  business  leaders  and  their  ideological 
priesthood.  The  book  is  certainly  not  to  be  considered  an  alternative 
to  Marxism,  as  many  reviewers  have  proposed;  but  if  read  by  readers 
who  will  discount  it  from  the  angle  of  a  Marxist  critique,  it  is  very 
serviceable  indeed. 


THE  CONSTANTS 

OF  SOCIAL  RELATIVITY1 


DISCOURAGED  by  the  ways  in  which  the  perspectives  of  differ- 
ent people,  classes,  eras,  cancel  one  another,  you  may  decide  that 
all  philosophies  are  nonsense.  Or  you  may  establish  order  by  fiat,  as 
you  bluntly  adhere  to  one  faction  among  the  many,  determined  to 
abide  by  its  assertions  regardless  of  other  people's  assertions.  Or  you 
may  become  a  kind  of  referee  for  other  men's  contests,  content  to 
observe  that  every  view  has  some  measure  of  truth  and  some  measure 
of  falsity.  If  they  had  asserted  nothing,  you  could  assert  nothing.  But 
in  so  far  as  they  assert  and  counterassert,  you  can  draw  an  assertion 
from  the  comparison  of  their  assertions. 

Professor  Karl  Mannheim's  "sociology  of  knowledge"  is  a  variant 
of  the  third  of  these  attitudes.  He  would  begin  with  the  fact  of  dif- 
ference rather  than  with  a  clioice  among  the  differences.  But  in  erect- 
ing a  new  perspective  atop  the  rivalries  of  the  old  perspectives,  he 
would  subtly  change  the  rules  of  the  game.  For  the  new  perspective 
he  offered  would  not  be  simply  a  rival  perspective;  it  would  be  a 
theory  of  perspectives.  In  so  far  as  it  was  accurate,  in  other  words,  its 

i  A  review  of  Ideology  and  Utopia,  by  Karl  Mannheim. 

404 


APPENDIX 

contribution  would  reside  in  its  ability  to  make  the  perspective- 
process  itself  more  accessible  to  consciousness. 

Faction  A  opposes  Faction  B.  To  do  so  as  effectively  as  possible, 
it  "unmasks"  Faction  B's  "ideology."  Faction  B  may  talk  nobly  about 
"humanity"  or  "freedom,"  for  instance.  And  Faction  A  discloses  the 
"real  meaning"  of  these  high-sounding  phrases  in  terms  of  interests, 
privileges,  social  habits,  and  the  like.  Faction  B  retaliates  by  unmask- 
ing Faction  A's  ideology. 

Each  faction  exposes,  as  far  as  possible,  the  conscious  and  uncon- 
scious deception  practiced  by  the  ideologists  of  rival  camps.  But  in 
the  course  of  exposing  the  enemy,  a  faction  comes  upon  principles 
that  could  be  turned  upon  itself  as  well.  Hence,  it  can  spare  its  own 
members  from  the  general  censure  only  by  "pulling  its  punch."  And 
precisely  at  this  point  there  enter  the  opportunities  for  a  "sociology 
of  knowledge,"  if  only  the  sociologist  can  so  change  the  rules  of  the 
game  that  he  finds  no  embarrassment  in  completing  and  maturing 
this  "unmasking"  process. 

This  he  does  in  the  easiest  way  imaginable.  Whereas  the  ideologists 
of  the  opposing  factions  "point  with  alarm"  to  the  fact  that  there  is 
a  difference  between  the  face  value  of  an  opponent's  idea  and  its  real 
value  in  social  commerce,  the  sociologist  starts  out  by  taking  such 
discrepancies  for  granted.  He  begins  with  the  assumption  that  an 
idea  must  be  "discounted"  by  the  disclosure  of  the  interests  behind 
it.  Hence,  he  can  treat  the  difference  between  the  face  value  of  an 
ideology  and  its  behavior  in  a  social  context  not  as  an  "unmasking" 
but  as  an  "explanation"  or  "definition"  of  the  ideology.  Thus,  in- 
stead of  being  startled  to  find  that  an  idea  must  be  discounted,  and 
taking  this  fact  as  the  be-all  and  end-all  of  his  disclosures,  he  assumes 
at  the  start  the  necessity  of  discounting,  and  so  can  advance  to  the 
point  where  he  seeks  to  establish  the  principles  of  discounting. 

Such,  at  least,  is  the  reviewer's  way  of  understanding  Professor 
Mannheim's  point  in  tracing  a  development  from  the  "unmasking 
of  ideologies"  to  the  "sociology  of  knowledge."  And  his  book  presents 
a  great  wealth  of  material  to  guide  the  sociologist  who  would  define 
ideologies  in  terms  of  their  social  behavior.  Incidentally,  in  his  gaug- 
ing of  the  case,  he  suggests  reasons  why  members  of  the  intelligentsia 
are  not  a  perfect  fit  for  strict  political  alignment.  Their  working  cap- 
ital is  their  education — and  in  so  far  as  they  accumulate  this  capital 
to  its  fullest,  they  venture  far  beyond  the  confines  of  some  immediate 

405 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

political  perspective.  He  does  not  use  this  thought,  however,  to  dis- 
prove the  value  of  political  affiliation.  On  the  contrary,  he  suggests 
that  there  are  ways  in  which  this  somewhat  "classless"  ingredient  in 
the  "capital"  of  the  intelligentsia  may  serve  to  broaden  and  mature 
the  outlook  of  the  stricter  partisans,  and  enable  them  to  take  wider 
ranges  of  reality  and  resistance  into  account. 

As  for  the  key  terms,  ideology  and  Utopia,  their  "discounting"  in 
social  textures  makes  it  impossible  for  the  reader  to  follow  them 
as  absolute  logical  opposites.  In  general,  the  term  ideology  is  used  to 
connote  "false  consciousness"  of  a  conservative  or  reactionary  sort 
— while  Utopia  stresses  the  same  phenomenon  in  the  revolutionary 
category.  If  conditions  have  so  changed,  for  instance,  that  the  landed 
proprietor  has  become  a  capitalist  yet  "still  attempts  to  explain  his 
relations  to  his  laborers  and  his  own  function  in  the  undertaking 
by  means  of  categories  reminiscent  of  the  patriarchal  order,"  he  is 
thinking  by  "ideological  distortion."  And  the  "spiritualization  of  pol- 
itics" in  the  thinking  of  the  Chiliasts  is  treated  as  a  typical  Utopia, 
surviving  even  in  the  thought  of  anarchists  like  Bakunin.  However, 
although  the  conservative  is  not  naturally  given  to  Utopian  imagin- 
ings, being  content  to  accept  the  status  quo,  the  competitive  pressure 
of  revolutionary  Utopias  spurs  him  to  the  construction  of  counter- 
Utopias.  Hegel's  romantic  historicism,  erected  in  opposition  to  the 
liberal  idea,  is  given  as  a  prime  example.  Perhaps  the  following  quota- 
tion illustrates  the  difference  most  succinctly: 

As  long  as  the  clerically  and  feudally  organized  medieval  order 
was  able  to  locate  its  paradise  outside  of  society,  in  some  other- 
worldly sphere  which  transcended  history  and  dulled  its  revolu- 
tionary edge,  the  idea  of  paradise  was  still  an  integral  part  of 
medieval  society.  Not  until  certain  social  groups  embodied  these 
wish-images  into  their  actual  conduct,  and  tried  to  realize  them, 
did  these  ideologies  become  Utopian. 

The  book  is  concerned  with  the  ramifications  and  subtilizations 
of  this  distinction,  and  with  a  theory  of  knowledge  to  be  drawn  from 
the  plot  of  history  as  charted  in  accordance  with  these  terms.  The  dis- 
cussion being  conducted  largely  in  abstractions,  the  book  will  prob- 
ably not  endear  itself  to  the  general  reader — but  anyone  interested  in 
the  relation  between  politics  and  knowledge  should  find  it  absorbing. 
Perhaps  we  could  venture  to  summarize  the  case  this  way:  whereas  the 
406 


APPENDIX 

needs  of  the  forum  tend  to  make  sociology  a  subdivision  of  politics, 
Professor  Mannheim  is  contributing  as  much  as  he  can  toward  mak- 
ing politics  a  subdivision  of  sociology. 


THE  SECOND 

STUDY  OF  MIDDLETOWN 


IF  one  had  to  find  a  quick  slogan  for  summarizing  the  way  in  which 
science  is  effective,  I  should  propose  the  formula:  stooping  to  con- 
quer. Such  is  the  experimental  method  at  its  best.  In  so  far  as  is 
humanly  possible,  it  begins  by  listening  rather  than  by  asserting.  It  is 
postponed  assertion,  somewhat  as  investment  is  said  to  be  postponed 
consumption. 

The  Lynds  are  expert  listeners.  Their  method  makes  of  us  all  their 
laboratory.  They  use  the  representative  town  of  Muncie,  Indiana,  as 
their  specific  field  of  study,  and  as  control,  their  study  of  the  same 
town  ten  years  ago.  One  man  figures  out,  let  us  say,  that  "everything 
will  turn  out  well  in  the  end."  And  so  does  the  next  man,  and  the 
next.  But  an  important  qualitative  change  takes  place  when  you  have 
added  up  all  these  quantities,  thereby  getting  a  kind  of  statistical 
view  of  this  homely  little  invention. 

The  Lynds  have  done,  without  the  note  of  guying,  what  Mencken 
and  Nathan  used  to  do  in  their  collection  of  Americana.  And  the 
omission  of  this  note  makes  considerable  difference.  What  Mencken 
and  Nathan  did  polemically,  and  Sinclair  Lewis  did  inspirationally, 
they  complete  by  the  strategy  of  stooping  to  conquer. 

As  a  result,  they  have  given  us  two  books  (the  earlier  and  present 
studies  of  "Middletown")  contributing  greatly  to  the  charting  of 
American  mores.  We  already  had  the  topographical  maps  surveying 
the  hills  and  valleys  of  America.  Here  we  get  a  survey  of  the  country's 
mental  contours. 

The  findings  could  hardly  be  saluted  as  new.  Anyone  who  has  sur- 
veyed America  either  from  the  standpoint  of  the  earlier  aesthetic 
criticism  (culminating  in  expatriation,  actual  or  symbolic)  or  from 
the  standpoint  of  current  political  emphasis  will  probably  feel,  in 
reading  Middletown  in  Transition,  that  he  is  more  often  being  re- 
407 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

minded  than  informed.  The  general  outlines  of  the  map  are  already 
known.  The  service  of  these  authors  is  (a)  in  giving  it  greater  pre- 
cision and  (b)  in  the  working  attitude  which  their  study  embodies. 
The  second  is  particularly  of  value  as  a  hint  to  our  formal  and  in- 
formal propagandists.  For  the  criticism,  radical  as  it  seems  in  its 
implications,  is  voiced  by  investigators  who  are  eager  to  make  sure 
that  the  bonds  of  participation  between  investigators  and  investi- 
gated are  not  broken.  The  emphasis,  in  other  words,  is  not  upon  ex- 
posure, but  upon  analysis,  with  the  result  that,  although  the  analysis 
is  in  effect  a  drastic  exposure,  the  stylistic  change  in  emphasis  prevents 
the  breaking  of  contact.  I  can  imagine  Middletown  being  troubled 
by  the  work;  but  I  cannot  imagine  it  being  furious. 

The  book  being  over  five  hundred  pages  in  length,  and  being 
largely  an  assemblage  of  graphs  and  statistics  written  out,  I  shall  not 
make  a  pretense  of  giving  it  in  summary.  What  one  sees,  on  the 
whole,  is  the  spectacle  of  a  people  attempting  to  handle  new  situa- 
tions by  symbols  developed  under  past  and  different  situations,  peo- 
ple who  still  tend  to  look  upon  the  dislocations  of  capitalism  as  an 
"act  of  God,"  who  have  worked  out  a  bewildering  hash  of  religious 
and  secular  coordinates,  who  strive  hard  to  be  friendly  under  an 
economy  that  too  often  makes  for  anger  (and  thereby  become  all  the 
angrier  when  their  friendliness  is  frustrated),  whose  weakness  for 
scapegoats  is  resisted  mainly  by  lack  of  some  rationalization  speciously 
complete  (a  lack  making  it  awkward  for  them  to  deflect  all  their 
resentment  upon  one  fixed  symbolic  victim).  One  sees  in  the  main 
the  struggle  to  form  the  mind  by  the  acceptance  of  ailing  institutions. 
This  is  a  disastrous  struggle,  since  the  tendency  of  the  individual  to 
locate  himself  with  relation  to  an  institutional  frame  is  in  itself 
natural  and  wholesome  enough — you  can  safely  think  of  changing 
institutions  only  when  you  have  some  alternative  institutional  basis 
upon  which  to  erect  your  purposes,  as  for  instance  the  basis  you  may 
derive  from  the  body  of  anti-capitalist  criticism,  a  criticism  rooted  in 
organization  and  method — but  the  ailing  institutions,  as  the  Lynds 
make  obvious,  themselves  serve  to  perpetuate  lines  of  thinking  that 
obscure  the  issues. 

There  is  one  fundamental  problem  in  a  book  of  this  sort.  The 
investigators  are,  by  the  very  nature  of  their  investigation,  looking 
for  the  typical.  And  when  you  have  finished,  you  begin  to  ask  yourself 
whether  there  might  be  some  important  difference  between  the  typi- 
cal and  history.  Middletown,  for  instance,  went  59  per  cent  for  Roose- 
408 


APPENDIX 

velt  in  the  last  election.  Yet  this  shift  from  Republicanism  is  not 
adequately  foreshadowed  in  the  Lynds'  survey.  In  so  far  as  "Middle- 
town"  is  typical  of  America,  and  this  survey  is  typical  of  Middletown, 
the  material  would  have  led  you  to  expect  a  national  sweep  for 
Landon. 

We  are  left  with  two  possibilities.  Perhaps  the  choice  of  Roosevelt 
over  Landon  was  more  spectacular  than  significant.  The  individual 
voter,  for  instance,  may  have  been  almost  undecided  whether  to  vote 
one  way  or  the  other,  and  just  barely  did  finally  decide  for  Roosevelt 
(this  tenuousness  adding  up,  in  the  deceptiveness  of  statistical  aggre- 
gates, to  a  landslide,  quite  as  the  small  difference  in  percentage  of 
votes  adds  up  to  a  blunt  all-but-Maine-and- Vermont  in  the  electoral 
college).  Or  else:  there  may  be  something  about  the  typical  that  is 
itself  misleading,  as  a  way  of  historical  gauging  and  forecasting. 

I  propose  that  the  second  of  these  possibilities  should  be  consid- 
ered, in  approaching  all  surveys  of  this  sort.  The  typical  is,  in  a  sense, 
the  relatively  inert.  It  is  what  people  answer  when  presented,  with  a 
questionnaire.  It  is  a  quantitative  rather  than  a  qualitative  test,  since 
it  assigns  to  everyone  the  same  rating,  regardless  of  his  activity.  And 
though  history  is  moved  by  quantities,  is  not  this  movement  accom- 
plished by  those  people,  rare  rather  than  typical,  most  awake  to  new 
qualities  which  the  changing  quantities  have  brought  forth?  In  other 
words,  might  not  the  single  song  of  one  poet,  under  certain  condi- 
tions, put  us  on  the  track  of  something  that  the  typical  platitudes 
of  a  group  could  give  us  no  inkling  of? 

In  any  case,  one  thing  is  certain:  those  hired  to  sing  for  the  Landon 
perspective  had  a  painful  job  of  it — and  those  hired  to  sing  for  the 
Roosevelt  perspective  had  a  much  easier  time  of  it.  The  unhired 
songs  further  to  the  left  went  practically  unheard — but  one  may  be- 
lieve that  they  will  gradually  make  themselves  heard,  and  that  they 
will  act  precisely  because  they  are  not  typical,  containing  rather  the 
emergent  factors,  such  all-important  trends  of  history  as  the  inertly 
typical  conceals  from  us. 

Another  problem  is  suggested  by  the  subtitle,  "a  study  in  cultural 
conflicts."  Following  leads  provided  by  Bergson,  we  may  note  that 
every  state  of  moral  or  social  "balance"  can,  by  the  very  nature  of 
language,  be  analyzed  as  a  conflict  between  opposing  tendencies. 
Thus  even  Newton  moralistically  plotted  the  curve  of  planetary  mo- 
tion in  terms  of  opposing  centrifugal  and  centripetal  tendencies.  And 
Aristotle,  by  dint  of  patient  thinking,  made  the  phenomenal  discov- 

409 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

ery  that  when  something  is  just  right  in  its  proportions,  it  is  neither 
too  big  nor  too  small.  All  moral  journeys  go  between  Scylla  and 
Charybdis. 

Are  not  conflicts,  in  this  technical  sense,  inevitable  and  everywhere? 
Can  you  possibly  analyze  any  social  manifestation  except  in  terms  of 
a  conflict?  Many  of  the  conflicts  noted  by  the  Lynds  seem  to  me  of  this 
linguistically  engendered  sort.  Every  state  or  local  portion  of  a  state, 
for  instance,  must  face  in  some  form  a  conflict  between  the  attempt 
to  keep  down  the  tax  rate  and  the  attempt  to  promote  public  enter- 
prises by  taxation.  Or  every  state  must  face  a  conflict  between  ideals 
of  work  and  ideals  of  leisure,  between  individual  preferences  and 
group  necessities,  etc.  Many  of  such  conflicts  noted  by  the  Lynds  do 
not  seem  to  me  quite  on  the  same  plane  with  the  inner  contradic- 
tions engendered  by  capitalism's  dilemma  in  trying  to  develop  mass 
production  without  reordering  its  property  relationships  to  facilitate 
mass  consumption. 

An  explicit  acceptance  of  the  Marxist  analysis  would,  it  seems  to 
me,  form  a  sounder  basis  upon  which  one  might  proceed  to  make 
distinctions  between  these  two  kinds  of  conflicts,  the  conflicts  caused 
by  a  system  working  against  itself  and  the  conflicts  arising  linguisti- 
cally from  the  fact  that  any  adjustment  must  be  expressed,  in  analytic 
terms,  as  the  juggling  of  opposites.  Once  we  have  carried  out  such  a 
weeding,  it  is  true,  we  may  very  well  find  that  the  essential  contra- 
dictions of  capitalism  serve  greatly  to  aggravate  conflicts  all  along  the 
line,  causing  dislocations  that  turn  all  consciousness  into  dilemmas 
(a  theme  that  Norbert  Guterman,  in  collaboration  with  Lefebvre, 
has  exploited  strikingly  in  La  Conscience  Mystifi.ee).  But  we  may  be 
warned  that  not  even  socialism  can  alter  the  nature  of  analytic  speech 
in  accordance  with  mystical  ideals  of  nonconflicting  unity.  The  bal- 
ance of  the  tight-rope  walker,  as  translated  into  analytic  terms,  is  at- 
tained by  adjusting  the  opposing  weight  of  the  right  and  left  sides  of 
the  body.  And  so,  in  any  mature  society,  there  will  be  balancings 
of  individual  and  group,  manual  workers  and  brain  workers,  industry 
and  agriculture,  or  among  regional  divisions.  A  "good"  state  is  not 
one  that  can  eliminate  them  (the  notion  of  eliminating  them  is  mean- 
ingless, unless  you  are  proposing  to  eliminate  language  itself  as  an 
instrument  for  the  analysis  of  interrelationships).  A  "good"  state  is 
one  that  can  eliminate  some  of  the  obviously  man-made  contradic- 
tions as  contained  in  the  capitalist  distribution  of  profits.  The  others, 
arising  from  our  position  as  mere  parts  of  a  universal  totality,  will 
410 


APPENDIX 

remain,  to  form  the  stimulus  for  the  "symbolic  bridges"  erected  by 
thinkers  and  poets.  The  Lynds  show  us  a  people  who  instinctively 
grasp  this  necessity,  who  know  that  man's  proper  enterprise  must  be 
expended  in  developing  modes  of  thought  that  enable  him  to  accept 
the  world,  but  who  are  tragically  engaged  in  trying  to  extend  such 
modes  of  acceptance  to  institutions  that  can  and  should  be  rejected. 
The  descriptive  and  admonitory  value  of  such  a  study  cannot  be 
praised  too  highly. 


A  RECIPE  FOR  WORSHIP 


IT  is  not  likely  that  many  readers  will  find  the  primary  thesis  of 
this  book  (The  Hero:  A  Study  in  Tradition,  Myth,  and  Drama,  by 
Lord  Raglan)  its  most  notable  aspect.  The  author  is  very  eager  to 
prove  that  the  figures  and  events  of  myth  have  no  basis  in  history. 
Even  a  character  like  Robin  Hood,  for  instance,  would  seem  to  dis- 
solve under  his  analysis — particularly  when  we  recall  the  material 
on  The  King  of  the  Wood  in  Frazer's  Golden  Bough,  are  reminded 
that  there  was  a  Continental  story  of  Robert  des  Bois,  and  that 
"hood"  is  the  word  for  "wood"  in  several  English  dialects.  Even  the 
historicity  of  the  Trojan  War  is  brought  up  for  severe  and  drastic 
questioning,  while  the  author  hurls  many  amusing  darts  at  the  pious 
savants  who  would  attest  their  respect  for  Greek  enclitics  by  believing 
that  there  was  a  real  prototype  in  history  for  the  heroes  and  events 
celebrated  in  The  Iliad,  despite  the  fact  that  even  the  stratagem  of 
the  horse  appears  in  variation  in  the  myths  of  other  peoples. 

When  you  finish  you  can  still,  if  you  prefer,  persist  in  your  belief 
that  there  was  some  actual  flood  to  form  the  basis  of  the  account  in 
Genesis — and  you  may  still  satisfy  your  hankerings  to  seek  some 
naturalistic  account  of  Moses's  feat  in  guiding  his  people  across  the 
Red  Sea  that  later  closed  to  swallow  up  the  soldiers  of  Pharaoh. 
(You  may  hang  on,  regardless  of  the  author's  evidence  indicating  that 
such  magical  strewing  of  obstacles  in  the  path  of  the  enemy  was  the 
stock  in  trade  of  mythic  leaders.)  For  as  the  author  himself  admits, 
it  is  impossible  to  prove  absolutely  that  myths  lack  a  grounding  in 
411 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

historicity.  Nevertheless  he  does  attain  a  high  degree  of  inference. 

But  whether  you  are  convinced  of  his  main  thesis  or  not,  I  think 
you  will  find  that,  in  the  course  of  maintaining  it,  he  turns  up  an 
enormous  amount  of  valuable  material.  It  is  his  contention  that  the 
figures  and  events  of  myth  owe  their  origin  to  the  ritual  dramas  of 
initiation  and  propitiation  (rites  for  the  installation  of  kings,  for 
rain-making,  fertilization,  and  victory  in  war).  The  origin  of  myth, 
therefore,  is  in  drama,  and  in  drama  of  a  purely  ceremonial  sort  (such 
as  we  saw  in  the  recent  coronation).  He  traces  the  role  played  by 
king-god-hero  in  these  magic  rituals  for  the  securing  of  prosperity. 
And  he  holds  that  tradition  was  written  backward,  with  these  dramas 
providing  the  perspective  for  interpretation.  In  fact,  he  gives  ample 
reasons  to  conclude  that  history  in  the  annalist's  sense  of  the  term 
could  not  exist  prior  to  literacy.  The  primitive  lives  in  the  "pure 
present,"  his  rituals  linking  past,  present,  and  future  into  one  (as 
they  seek  scrupulously  to  reenact  a  past  ceremony  in  the  present,  for 
future  efficacy,  and  their  past  persists  in  their  present  quite  as  the 
Catholic  will  tell  you  that  every  day  Christ  is  crucified — the  event 
being  not  merely  "historical,"  but  continuous). 

But  even  though,  when  you  finish,  you  may  still  tend  to  feel  that 
there  was  an  "actual  someone"  who  provided  the  polarizing  principle 
for  the  accumulation  of  mythic  details  (as  Mae  West  is  now  the  broad 
basis  of  Mae  West  stories),  you  do  feel  the  important  point  to  be 
the  way  in  which  they  were  reshaped  for  ritual  purposes.  In  the  course 
of  his  argument  the  author  works  out  a  recipe  of  twenty-two  points 
for  the  typical  hero.  Among  these  might  be  cited:  "At  birth  an  at- 
tempt is  made  to  kill  him";  "he  is  spirited  away  and  reared  by  foster- 
parents  in  a  far  country";  "on  reaching  manhood  he  returns  or  goes 
to  his  future  kingdom";  "after  a  victory  over  the  king  and/or  a  giant, 
dragon,  or  wild  beast,  he  marries  a  princess  .  .  .  and  becomes  king"; 
he  "prescribes  laws,  but  later  he  loses  favor  .  .  .  and  is  driven  from 
the  throne  and  city,  after  which  he  meets  a  mysterious  death,  often 
at  the  top  of  a  hill."  The  author  cites  as  examples  Hercules,  Perseus, 
Bellerophon,  Dionysus,  Joseph,  Moses,  and  Siegfried;  and  their  fidel- 
ity to  the  pattern  is  quite  convincing. 

We  should  make  but  one  major  objection  to  his  book.  Noting 
that  the  details  of  the  hero's  life  are  not  realistic,  but  ritualistic,  he 
seems  to  underestimate  the  role  of  the  people  in  the  development  of 
mythic  figures.  The  author  seems  to  assume  that,  since  the  details  of 
the  dramatic  rituals  deal  with  kingly  ceremonies  rather  than  with 
412 


APPENDIX 

everyday  life,  the  people  beheld  them  merely  as  onlookers,  their  par- 
ticipation residing  mainly  in  the  fact  that  they  had  a  share  in  the  suc- 
cessful outcome  of  the  rite. 

This  emphasis  would,  I  think,  imply  a  false  relationship  between 
drama  and  audience.  The  spectator,  I  believe,  could  not  have  been 
attached  to  these  dramas  merely,  because  they  were  spectacular  but 
mistaken  ways  of  doing  what  is  now  done  by  irrigation  and  reforesta- 
tion. The  dramas  could  retain  their  hold  only  in  so  far  as  the  specta- 
tors were  "glued"  to  them — and  one  is  glued  to  a  work  of  art  only 
when  that  work  is  reliving  for  him  some  basic  pattern  of  his  own  ex- 
perience, with  its  appropriate  "medicine."  The  curriculum  vitae 
symbolized  in  the  dramas  must  have  paralleled  their  own,  despite  the 
kingly  symbols.  In  their  heroic-ritualistic  translation,  these  experi- 
ences were,  to  be  sure,  "writ  large,"  but  the  underlying  processes  of 
transition  charted  by  the  mythic  hero's  life  must  have  been  a  replica 
of  their  own  processes.  Thus  the  author  accounts  for  the  fact  that  so 
many  of  the  ritual  dramas  have  a  doorway  or  gateway  as  setting  by 
attributing  it  to  a  mere  technical  convenience  of  stage  presentation; 
but  could  we  not  rather  note  the  relevance  of  this  "Janus"  symbol 
for  objectifying  rebirth,  such  changes  of  identity  as  investigators  have 
noted  in  totemic  initiation?  From  this  standpoint  we  might  hold  that, 
despite  absence  of  realistic,  everyday  detail  in  the  rituals,  they  sym- 
bolized the  experience  of  even  the  most  lowly,  though  expressed 
"transcendentally,"  in  "stylistic  dignification"  (as  when  Shakespeare 
dignified  his  own  concerns  in  King  Richard  II  and  Prince  Hamlet). 

The  author  is  strongly  antagonistic  to  Euhemerus  and  all  his 
modern  variants.  He  does  not  believe  with  that  genial  old  debunker 
of  300  b.  c.  that  the  gods  and  heroes  of  mythology  were  merely  deified 
mortals,  with  their  real  acts  amplified  by  the  imagination.  Perhaps 
my  reservation  is  but  another  brand  of  Euhemerism,  though  with  a 
difference.  I  am  suggesting  that,  despite  the  absence  of  realistic  detail 
in  the  rituals,  it  was  not  the  ki?ig's  life  but  their  own  lives  that  the 
onlookers  were  reliving — and  these  lives  were  being  made  acceptable, 
or  "negotiable,"  by  transmogrification  into  royal  attributes. 


413 


HYPERGELASTICISM  EXPOSED 


MR.  LUDOVICI  (in  The  Secret  of  Laughter),  having  "creatively" 
noted  the  fact  that  we  laugh  or  smile  under  a  wide  range  of  circum- 
stances, looks  for  a  lex  continui  that  might  apply  to  all  of  them.  He 
reviews  past  literature  on  the  subject,  but  finds  it  wanting,  except 
in  the  case  of  Hobbes,  who  held  that  laughter  had  its  genesis  in  self 
glory,  thus:  "The  passion  of  laughter  is  nothing  else  but  sudden  glory 
arising  from  some  sudden  conception  of  some  eminency  in  ourselves, 
by  comparison  with  the  infirmity  of  others,  or  with  our  own  for- 
merly." And  again:  "Sudden  glory  is  the  passion  which  maketh  those 
grimaces  called  laughter;  and  is  caused  either  by  some  sudden  act 
of  their  own  [the  laughers']  that  pleaseth  them  or  by  the  apprehen- 
sion of  some  deformed  thing  in  another  by  comparison  whereof  they 
suddenly  applaud  themselves.  And  it  is  incident  most  to  them  that 
are  conscious  of  the  fewest  abilities  in  themselves;  who  are  forced  to 
keep  themselves  in  their  own  favour  by  observing  the  imperfections 
of  other  men." 

The  author  shows  that  this  formula  of  Hobbes'  can  be  startlingly 
developed  if  we  supplement  it  with  a  behavioristic  description  of 
laughter.  For  when  you  have  listed  the  significant  aspects  of  the 
act  of  laughing  (elevation  of  the  head,  baring  of  the  teeth,  emission 
of  harsh  guttural  sounds)  you  have  given  us  the  symptoms,  not  of 
laughter,  but  of  an  animal  enraged.  Such  would  suggest  that  laughter 
has  a  jungle  origin,  in  the  "showing  of  teeth"  as  an  indication  of 
challenge  or  threat.  However  "civilized"  the  situations  at  which  we 
laugh,  there  will  be  observable  in  them  a  pronounced  superior- 
inferior  relationship  (are  there  many  other  relationships?)  such  as 
would  characterize  the  encounter  of  two  jungle  beasts,  displaying 
their  weapons  and  conveying  their  ominous  attitudes. 

If  the  reader  applies  for  himself  this  Hobbes-Darwin-Behaviorism 
device  of  Mr.  Ludovici,  he  will  find  that  the  most  disparate  kinds 
of  laughter-situations  and  smile-events  can,  with  a  little  squeez- 
ing, be  made  to  fit.  We  may  expect  pleased  laughter  when  some  dis- 
crepancy, discordancy,  or  defect  exalts  us  by  a  feeling  of  "superior 

414 


APPENDIX 

adaptation";  conversely,  we  may  expect  a  man  to  laugh  or  smile 
"dishonestly"  when  he  is  on  the  under  side  of  such  a  disproportion 
and  would  suggest  "superior  adaptation"  by  "bluff."  The  author 
tries  his  formula  on  fifty  or  sixty  different  laughs,  with  helpful  re- 
sults. Thus:  a  child  laughs  when,  running  from  a  mock-pursuer,  it 
reaches  the  haven  of  its  mother's  skirts.  Or  the  condescending  gods 
of  Olympus  laughed  at  the  sight  of  lame  Hephaestos.  Or  the  villain 
laughs  a  mirthless,  you-are-in-my-power  laugh.  Or  we  laugh  if  a 
portly  and  pompous  squire,  such  as  might  foreclose  our  mortgage,  has 
his  dignity  punctured.  We  laugh  when  tickled,  for  the  most  neurolog- 
ically  direct  reason  of  all:  because  we  must  bare  our  teeth  as  the  at- 
tacks upon  our  body  produce  inevitably  in  us  the  stimulation  of 
our  defense  reflexes.  We  laugh  at  our  own  pun,  buoyed  up  by  that 
proud  conquest  of  the  syllables  we  have  mangled;  and  we  are  gen- 
erally quite  greedy  to  laugh  at  another's  pun  if  we  perceive  it  through 
the  fog  of  a  foreign  language  with  which  we  should  like  to  appear 
at  home.  Mr.  Ludovici  saw  a  young  woman  slip  on  a  wet  pavement; 
her  clothes  were  soiled,  and  she  laughed  and  laughed,  though  it  is 
hard  to  imagine  that  she  thought  the  episode  really  funny,  and  much 
easier  to  suppose  that  she  was  covering  her  embarrassment  by  a  nerv- 
ous mechanism  ("showing  of  teeth" — "display  of  weapons")  which 
gave  her  a  compensatory  "superior  adaptation"  for  a  situation  other- 
wise humiliating.  And  Mr.  Ludovici's  formula  would  explain  our 
delight  in  stage  characters  whose  stupidity  is  total,  as  though  nothing 
less  than  sheer  nonsense  could  now  serve  to  provide  us  with  that 
wholesome  feeling  of  superiority  which  we  so  greatly  need. 

The  formula  is  also  very  useful  as  a  conversion  mechanism.  For 
the  combat  patterns,  as  spiritualized  or  "sublimated"  into  corre- 
sponding social  modes,  will  naturally  lack  jungle  "purity,"  and  may 
yield  their  secret  only  through  the  exegesis  of  Evolutionism.  In  the 
Jungles  of  Society  we  may  more  likely  discover,  not  alignments  in- 
volving life  and  death,  but  the  subtler  calls  upon  our  machinery  of 
competition  which  are  to  be  found  in  the  Battle  of  Wits.  Though 
one  woman,  it  is  true,  may  break  into  irrepressible  giggles  at  the 
sight  of  her  husband  tumbling  down  stairs,  we  usually  have  to  track 
our  jungle  far:  to  the  good  Professor,  perhaps,  with  his  faintly  ironic 
guying  of  a  student's  faulty  answer  (the  cultivated  and  widely  docu- 
mented perception  of  the  delicately  comic).  This  Professor  might 
"show  teeth"  when  his  student  slipped  on  a  question — yet  he  would 
not  deign  to  show  teeth,  like  a  mere  savage  child,  had  this  same 

415 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

student  slipped  on  a  banana  peel.  The  concept  of  "superior  adapta- 
tion" would  explain  the  laughter  of  a  girl  well-dressed  and  courted 
(she  would  seem  to  live  among  great  wits);  and  "bluff  superior  adapta- 
tion" would  explain  the  strained  frozen  twitching  smiles  of  nervous 
people  who  really  ought  never  to  see  one  another,  but  who  happen  to 
be  compelled  by  the  usages  of  society  to  sit  down  at  table  together, 
and  so  proceed  dutifully  in  a  circle  to  show  teeth  on  the  slightest 
provocation. 

It  does  seem  to  me,  however,  that  in  the  interest  of  his  thesis  the 
author  is  more  thoroughgoing  than  he  need  be.  One  might  hold  com- 
pletely to  the  jungle  origin  of  laughter,  without  attempting  so  stren- 
uously to  interpret  each  laugh  or  smile  by  carrying  them  back  to 
their  jungle  equivalent.  The  socialized  snarl  of  laughter  may  often 
be  due  to  what  we  might  call  "secondary"  or  "derived"  meanings. 
That  is:  if  we  grant  that  verbal  speech  probably  originated  in  the 
mimetic,  in  bodily  posture,  we  might  conversely  find  occasions  in 
which  the  mimetic  is  still  used  exactly  as  verbal  speech  is  used. 
Some  laughter  might  then  have  to  be  explained  "lexically."  To  il- 
lustrate: Suppose  that  A  had  laughed  just  because  he  "felt  good." 
Such  a  phenomenon  would  be  strictly  accountable  within  Mr.  Ludo- 
vici's  formula — since  to  "feel  good"  is  to  "feel  superior  adaptation" 
in  a  general  way,  and  one  in  an  expansive  mood  might  properly 
show  teeth  at  the  entire  universe.  But  if  A,  in  his  burst  of  smiling, 
had  smiled  upon  B,  note  how  a  new  kind  of  "meaning"  for  this  smile 
might  arise.  For  B  might  whisper  to  himself,  "This  is  obviously  the 
time  to  ask  a  favor  of  A.  A's  mere  sense  of  physical  wellbeing  will  be 
superiority  enough  for  him  today.  He  will  do  me  no  damage  with 
teeth,  or  with  their  social  counterparts."  In  other  words,  A's  laughter 
of  good  health  may  suggest  to  B  nothing  other  than  a  promise  of 
sufferance  or  service.  And  as  bearded  savants,  studying  the  prefer- 
ences of  babies,  have  discovered  that  bottle-fed  babies  bestow  upon 
the  bottle  the  love  that  would,  with  breast-feeding,  have  been  be- 
stowed upon  the  mammae,  we  may  experimentally  establish  it  that 
from  a  promise  of  service  arises  a  judgment  of  value — the  lovable. 
And  once  we  have  established  a  recurrent  type  of  situation  in  which 
laughter,  by  being  a  promise  of  service,  takes  on  connotations  of  the 
lovable,  we  may  expect  subsequently  to  find  occasions  wherein  a 
man,  employing  this  derived  or  "conditional"  meaning,  will  show 
teeth  purely  as  a  sign  that  he  would  like  to  be  deemed  lovable.  To 
explain  the  use  of  the  smile-sign  on  such  an  occasion  wholly  by  its 
416 


APPENDIX 

snarl-origin  would  be  exactly  as  though  one  were  to  discover  a  "so- 
cialized snarl"  lurking  in  some  actual  verbal  equivalent,  such  as  "I 
want  you  to  like  me."  This  charitable  reservation  will  be  seen  for 
the  pacifistic  thing  it  is  when  we  attempt  to  exegetize  the  smile  of  a 
defeated  opponent.  We  should  be  cruel  in  calling  his  smile  simply 
a  "bluff  superior  adaptation"  to  conceal  chagrin.  Rather,  we  might 
take  it  as  gesture-speech  for  saying,  more  economically  and  fleetingly 
than  words,  "This  is  to  indicate  that  our  contest  will  not  be  carried 
by  me  beyond  the  limits  of  the  game." 

With  such  a  minor  reservation  as  a  way  of  guarding  against  that 
"fallacy  of  origins"  to  which  nineteenth-century  science  erected  all 
its  altars,  I  think  the  author's  thesis  can  be  followed  with  much  profit. 
And  his  closing  suggestions  that  the  sense  of  humor  is  especially 
prized  today  (hypergelasticism)  because  it  offers  us  a  ready  "disguised 
inferior  adaptation"  to  the  many  perplexities  and  indignities  be- 
setting us,  may  not  tell  the  whole  story,  but  they  certainly  tell  much 
of  it.  Here  would  be  trench  humor,  to  maintain  trench  morale  (which 
might  incidentally  suggest  that  we  state  the  laughter-disproportions 
the  other  way  round,  calling  the  purpose  of  laughter  not  so  much  a 
glorifying  of  the  self  as  a  minimizing  of  the  distresses  menacing 
the  self). 

Somewhat  tangentially  to  Mr.  Ludovici's  thesis,  I  was  led  to  spec- 
ulate on  the  fact  that  precisely  Hobbes  was  the  first  thinker  who  at- 
tributed laughter  to  "self-glory."  For  it  was  precisely  Hobbes  who, 
alone  of  English  philosophers  (and  perhaps  alone  of  important  phi- 
losophers, except  Schopenhauer)  was  "distinguished"  by  an  extraor- 
dinary willingness  to  display  vanity,  self-importance,  self-esteem, 
etc.  Some  might  say,  "His  vanity  so  marked  him  that  it  even  led  him 
to  find  vanity  and  selfishness  in  the  abnegatory  and  companionable 
activity  of  laughing."  For  my  own  part,  in  view  of  the  man's  great 
insight  on  many  matters,  I  should  credit  him  with  a  much  more  com- 
plicated process.  Practically  all  cultivated  Englishmen  were  schooled 
against  the  obvious  show  of  self-glory  in  its  conventionally  recognized 
forms  (as  in  boasting),  so  it  would  not  be  asking  a  great  deal  of 
Hobbes  to  expect  that  he  should  be  equally  sensitive  to  this  conven- 
tion, and  to  the  kinds  of  censure  and  handicap  that  might  come  of 
violating  it.  My  explanation  accordingly  would  run  somewhat  as 
follows: 

Hobbes  appreciated,  as  well  as  the  next  man,  the  social  proscrip- 
tions with  relation  to  overt  self-glory.  He  saw  that  his  countrymen 
417 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

had  a  rigid  code  concerning  such  matters,  and  were  obedient  to  it. 
On  the  other  hand,  since  they  did  not  detect  the  covert  self-glory  of 
laughter,  their  prizing  of  the  sense  of  humor  would  enable  them  to 
gratify  the  impulses  of  boasting,  vaunting,  etc.,  while  apparently 
complying  with  the  most  rigorous  code  of  modesty  and  polite  self- 
effacement.  With  his  theory  of  laughter  as  self-glory,  he  naturally 
saw  them  as  forever  glorifying  themselves  in  varying  degrees  of  super- 
cilious smilings  while  thinking  of  themselves  as  the  very  soul  of  re- 
tirement. Hence,  he  lived  in  a  world  where  everyone  was  a  monster 
of  incessant  boastfulness.  What  more  natural  than  that  he  also  should 
be  contaminated  finally,  by  this  general  orgy,  and  begin  boasting 
himself?  And  what  more  natural  than  that,  being  a  good  meta- 
physician and  recognizing  the  deviousness  of  smile-boasts,  he  would 
prefer  to  take  his  boasting  straight,  with  that  consistency,  that  thor- 
oughness, that  quality-of-seeing-a-thing-through-to-the-end,  which  is 
the  most  distinctive  feature  of  the  metaphysician's  calling? 


MAINSPRINGS  OF  CHARACTER 


IN  seeking  a  key  term  for  the  pattern  of  thought  underlying  the 
works  of  Anatole  France,  Mr.  Chevalier  (in  The  Ironic  Temper: 
Anatole  France  and  His  Times)  holds  that  an  insistence  upon 
France's  irony  as  a  central  fact  makes  possible  "an  organic  account 
of  the  contradictory  elements  in  the  man  himself."  By  his  interpreta- 
tion, not  only  was  France  ripe  for  irony,  but  the  times  were  ripe  for 
irony.  That  is:  France's  irony  is  "explained"  as  a  pattern  peculiar  to 
the  author  as  a  person,  manifesting  itself  in  emergent  forms  long 
before  he  could  have  accurately  gauged  the  issues  of  the  day;  yet  the 
issues  of  the  day  were  also  such  as  to  encourage  an  ironic  stressing. 
Hence  France,  like  a  kind  of  Leibnitzian  monad,  could  be  obeying 
wide  social  patterns  while  obeying  his  own.  This  lock-and-key  fit 
between  a  society  naturally  making  for  ironists  and  a  man  with  many 
traits  of  character  naturally  making  for  irony  resulted  in  a  writer 
who,  subjective,  personal,  impressionistic,  concerning  himself  with 
his  own  particularities  of  experience,  became  a  popular  writer  sym- 
418 


APPENDIX 

bolizing  trends  of  thought  and  feeling  which  ran  through  the  entire 
reading  public  of  his  day. 

Mr.  Chevalier's  documentation  seems  to  me  thoroughly  convinc- 
ing. It  is  no  accident  that  irony  was  brought  up  for  deep  considera- 
tion by  the  romantics  at  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth  century  and 
became  an  attribute  of  many  lively  writers  as  the  century  progressed. 
His  remarks  on  the  nature  of  irony  enable  us  to  understand  why 
the  nineteenth  century,  of  all  centuries,  a  century  inferior  in  great 
drama,  should  be  concerned  with  a  device  so  integral  to  drama.  As 
Mr.  Chevalier  points  out,  dramatic  irony  arises  from  a  relationship 
between  the  audience  and  the  play.  The  audience  knows  that  certain 
tragic  events  are  destined  to  take  place.  It  also  hears  some  figure  on 
the  stage  boasting  of  the  good  times  to  come.  And  in  the  audience, 
as  spectator,  arises  dramatic  irony.  The  audience  is  powerless  to 
affect  the  course  of  events;  at  the  same  time,  its  sympathy  for  the 
characters  makes  it  long  to  alter  the  course  of  events — and  this  di- 
vided attitude,  a  sense  of  being  with  the  people  as  regards  one's 
sympathies  but  aloof  as  regards  one's  ability  to  forestall  the  move- 
ments of  destiny,  this  awareness  of  a  breach  between  one's  desires 
and  one's  understanding,  this  is  ironic. 

Hence  it  becomes  clear  why  the  nineteenth  century,  of  all  cen- 
turies, reapplied  irony  by  transferring  the  spectator  attitude  from 
the  audience  to  the  writer.  Hence  the  irony  of  men  like  Renan, 
France,  Henry  James.  Here  was  a  century  in  which  the  men  of  in- 
tellect saw  the  people  headed  eagerly  towards  so  many  ambitions 
which  these  men  despised.  Feeling  that  the  authority  of  this  move- 
ment was  irresistible,  yet  having  always  a  strong  desire  to  change 
the  course  of  events  if  they  could,  they  became  spectators,  with  the 
divided,  ironic  attitude  that  comes  of  seeing  people  headed  with  con- 
fidence towards  desolate  ends. 

The  ironic  attitude  was  complicated  by  the  dual  position  which 
science  played  in  the  life  of  the  century.  In  the  speculations  of  pure 
science  there  was  everything  which  a  lover  of  the  "aesthetic"  could 
admire:  enterprise,  independence,  spiritedness,  imaginativeness,  crit- 
ical keenness.  Applied  science  on  the  other  hand  (the  adventurous 
speculations  harnessed  for  business  purposes)  seemed  to  make  for  the 
very  opposite  type  of  mind,  with  more  and  more  demands  upon  our 
acquiescence,  our  obedient  repeating  of  such  parrotlike  things  as 
one  says  to  a  parrot,  our  loss  of  fluid,  physical,  "earthy"  living,  our 
development  of  cogwheel  thoughts  to  match  the  cogwheel  methods 

419 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

of  production.  This  was  cause  enough  for  irony:  a  sense  that  the 
most  brilliant  aspects  of  human  thought  were  being  steadily  con- 
verted, by  men  of  a  different  order,  into  human  impoverishments. 
The  situation  was  further  complicated  by  the  fact  that  pure  science 
had  robbed  the  social  critics  of  a  stable  basis  upon  which  they  might 
erect  a  system  of  protest,  such  completely  relativistic  sciences  as  psy- 
chology and  anthropology  having  destroyed  the  underpinnings  of 
absolute  judgment.  Only  those  who  remained  staunch  Catholics  were 
able  to  write  sturdy  invective.  They  could  still  base  their  thunder- 
ings  upon  the  old  ideology  of  horrors,  thus  deriving  "strength,"  but 
the  "new  men"  had  weakened:  they  could  not  say,  "It  is  wrong  in  the 
eyes  of  God,"  nor  even,  "It  is  wrong  in  the  eyes  of  human  justice," 
but  simply,  "I  do  not  like  it."  Thus,  pure  science  had  not  merely 
put  them  in  a  divided  attitude  as  the  result  of  its  harsh  commercial 
application;  it  had  also  impaired  the  authoritative,  "metaphysical" 
judgments  upon  which  they  could  frame  an  attack  against  this  harsh 
commercial  application.  Hence  their  complaints  about  the  "disillu- 
sionment" of  science — complaints,  be  it  noted,  which  never  turned 
them  against  scientific  speculation,  for  as  men  of  spirit  they  were 
necessarily  vowed  to  breadth  of  inquiry,  regardless  of  where  it  led. 

There  was  a  strong  attempt  to  avoid  their  dilemmas  by  making 
ethics  a  branch  of  aesthetics.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  criteria  of  the 
beautiful  were  as  fundamentally  impaired  as  the  criteria  of  the  good. 
But  ethical  crumblings  were  naturally  more  noticeable,  so  a  defini- 
tion of  goodness  as  a  subdivision  of  the  beautiful  seemed  to  point 
in  the  direction  of  an  area  still  partially  intact.  This  was,  I  believe, 
a  move  in  the  right  direction,  and  might  eventually  have  led  to  such 
a  biologic  or  psychologic  basis  of  judgment  as,  "It  is  wrong  because 
it  outrages  needs  of  the  mind  and  body,  because  it  interferes  with 
the  felicitous  working  of  the  human  organism."  As  a  matter  of 
fact,  however,  all  that  it  did  generally  lead  to  was  an  ultimate  realiza- 
tion that  beauty  also  was  relative,  so  at  the  close  of  the  century  this 
double  frustration  was  in  evidence:  applied  science  driving  the  world 
towards  ways  of  living  and  thinking  which  required  the  elimination 
of  many  past  amenities;  and  pure  science  having  corroded  the  basis 
of  judgment  upon  which  the  disorders  of  applied  science  could  be 
attacked. 

Mr.  Chevalier  clearly  shows  Anatole  France  at  the  center  of  these 
issues.  He  shows  how  certain  personal  elements,  of  indolence,  of  ir- 
responsibility, permitted  him  to  stress  this  ironic,  spectator  attitude 
420 


APPENDIX 

to  the  limits,  allowing  him  to  remain  at  home  (as  regards  his  page) 
in  these  many  contradictions,  inducing  him  to  live  by  an  "as  if" 
philosophy  which  could  restore  the  classic  amenities  once  more  by 
permitting  oneself  on  paper  to  feel  "as  if"  they  were  still  with  us,  and 
yet  grew  apologetic  at  the  awareness  of  its  own  subterfuge. 

It  is  customary  today  to  be  repelled  by  the  thought  of  this  spectator 
attitude.  There  are  no  spectators.  All  men,  though  they  have  done  no 
more  for  a  living  than  to  exhaust  themselves  by  clipping  coupons, 
are  a-tremble.  There  is  no  haven,  no  elevation  above  the  century, 
from  which  one  can  look  out  calmly  upon  the  hideous  Manichean 
battles  that  are  to  be  fought  between  the  principle  of  goodness  and 
the  principle  of  evil  during  the  next  decades.  So  it  can  be  made  to 
seem  that  there  was  something  cold,  something  unfeeling,  in  the 
ironic  temper.  Yet  whatever  else  we  may  hold  against  it,  we  must 
dismiss  this  charge  entirely.  As  Mr.  Chevalier  very  pointedly  says  of 
France  in  his  closing  summation: 

That  which  he  expressed — often  with  profound  sophistication 
— was  the  naive,  the  fresh,  the  immature  approach  to  experi- 
ence, the  first  contacts  with  life,  the  budding  emotions,  the  tenta- 
tive intellectual  discoveries  that  each  youth  must  make  anew. 
Life  remains  for  him  always  clothed  with  mystery  and  enchant- 
ment, fraught  with  danger.  It  is  an  ecstatic  youth's  vision  of  life, 
even  when  his  reactions  are  those  of  a  disabused  old  man.  .  .  . 
Some  of  the  most  appealing  human  traits  are  magically  evoked 
— tenderness,  compassion,  and  childlike  wonder,  a  perpetual 
fresh  surprise  before  objects  of  beauty  and  grandeur. 

For  all  his  guise  of  "complexity,"  France  managed  all  this  by  a  very 
simplified  kind  of  poetry.  He  wrote  his  books  on  the  top  of  other 
books,  that  his  might  share  the  quality  of  theirs;  he  found  that  by 
"scribbling  upon  the  margins  of  books,"  he  could  restore  for  us  some 
of  the  gentler  existences  out  of  which  these  other  books  had  arisen. 
Like  an  archeologist,  he  found  a  calm  Atlantis,  which  had  heaved  a 
huge  geologic  sigh  and  sunk  slowly  to  the  bottom  of  the  sea,  where 
it  now  lay,  its  temples  still  standing,  its  marbles  posturing,  and 
mournful  fishes  peering  upon  these  dead  splendors.  It  is  not  the  most 
"usable"  attitude  for  today — neither  is  it  an  attitude  which  could  be 
dismissed  from  the  mind  without  great  loss. 


421 


EXCEPTIONAL  IMPROVISATION 


WILLIAM  EMPSON'S  Some  Versions  of  Pastoral  is  unquestion- 
ably one  of  the  keenest,  most  independent,  and  most  imaginative 
books  of  criticism  that  have  come  out  of  contemporary  England. 
Since  Eliot  has  been  encumbered  with  so  much  troublesome  extra 
baggage  in  recent  years,  his  value  for  us  is  lessened.  And  the  three 
most  fertile  works  on  literature  since  The  Sacred  Wood  are  I.  A. 
Richards'  Principles  of  Literary  Criticism,  Caroline  Spurgeon's 
Shakespeare's  Imagery,  and  this  new  book  by  the  author  of  Seven 
Types  of  Ambiguity. 

The  step  from  Seven  Types  of  Ambiguity  to  Some  Versions  of 
Pastoral  is  considerable.  Empson  is  still,  unfortunately,  inclined  to 
self-indulgence,  as  he  permits  himself  wide  vagaries.  But  presum- 
ably that  is  his  method — so  the  reader,  eager  to  get  good  things  where 
he  can,  will  not  stickle  at  it.  He  will  permit  Empson  his  latitude,  par- 
ticularly since  it  seems  to  be  a  necessary  condition  for  the  writing. 
He  will  take  what  he  gets,  and  will  proceed  to  delve  there.  He  will 
enjoy  the  author's  suggestions,  looking  elsewhere  for  four-square 
schematizations. 

By  the  "pastoral"  Empson  appears  to  designate  that  subtle  reversal 
of  values  whereby  the  last  become  first.  They  do  this,  not  by  assuming 
the  qualities  of  the  first,  but  by  suggesting  the  firstness  implicit  in  their 
lastness.  Hence,  we  get  the  long  literature  of  transvaluation  whereby 
humble  rustics,  criminals,  children,  and  fools  are  shown  to  contain 
the  true  ingredients  of  greatness.  They  are  uplifted,  not  by  renounc- 
ing their  humbleness,  but  by  affirming  it,  until  out  of  it  there  arises  the 
prophetic  truth. 

We  can  discern  the  workings  of  this  process  in  thought  as  super- 
ficially divergent  as  primitive  Christian  evangelism  and  Marx's  "pro- 
letarian" morality.  We  may  note  it  in  the  reshaping  of  the  Parsifal 
legends,  where  the  knightly  half-wit  becomes  transformed  into  the 
saint  of  the  Holy  Grail,  his  earlier  Quixotic  credulousness  being 
metamorphosed  into  insight.  Empson  chooses,  for  his  examples,  The 
Vision  of  Piers  Plowman,  Spenser's  Faery  Queen,  Gray's  Elegy  in  a 
422 


APPENDIX 

Country  Churchyard,  Marvell's  Garden,  The  Beggar's  Opera,  Swift, 
and  Alice  in  Wonderland.  Apparently  stimulated  by  sources  so  dif- 
ferent as  the  propounders  of  "dialectical  materialism"  and  Frazer's 
The  Golden  Bough,  he  makes  explicit  many  of  the  complex  psycho- 
logical ingredients  implicit  in  "pastoral"  revolutions. 

"If  you  choose  an  important  member  the  result  is  heroic;  if  you 
choose  an  unimportant  one  it  is  pastoral."  But  also:  "In  my  account 
the  ideas  about  the  Sacrificial  Hero  as  Dying  God  are  mixed  up  in 
the  brew,"  the  "unimportant  member"  becoming,  by  pastoral  trans- 
formation, the  really  "important  member,"  and  hence  the  heroic  re- 
deemer. There  is  much  here  that  is  necessarily  tenuous,  and  that  a 
rigorously  schematizing  mind  might  not  have  thought  of. 

The  book  is  also  made  valuable  by  many  incidental  passages  open- 
ing up  new  resources  of  literary  "appreciation."  We  should  mention, 
for  instance,  the  author's  acute  way  of  appraising  the  appeal  in 
a  poem  on  the  ways  of  fish,  by  Rupert  Brooke.  And  as  a  sample  of  his 
improvising  powers,  we  might  close  by  citing  his  exegetic  comments 
on  the  passage  from  Gray,  about  the  flower  that  "is  born  to  blush 
unseen": 

Full  many  a  gem  of  purest  ray  serene 
The  dark,  unfathomed  caves  of  ocean  bear; 
Full  many  a  flower  is  born  to  blush  unseen 
And  waste  its  sweetness  on  the  desert  air. 

What  this  means,  as  the  context  makes  clear,  is  that  eighteenth- 
century  England  had  no  scholarship  system  or  carriere  ouverte 
aux  talents.  This  is  stated  as  pathetic,  but  the  reader  is  put  into 
a  mood  in  which  he  would  not  try  to  alter  it.  .  .  .  By  comparing 
the  social  arrangement  to  Nature  he  makes  it  seem  inevitable, 
which  it  was  not,  and  gives  it  a  dignity  which  was  undeserved. 
Furthermore,  a  gem  does  not  mind  being  in  a  cave  and  a  flower 
prefers  not  to  be  picked;  we  feel  that  the  man  is  like  the  flower, 
as  short-lived,  natural,  and  valuable,  and  this  tricks  us  into  feel- 
ing that  he  is  better  off  without  opportunities.  The  sexual  sug- 
gestion of  blush  brings  in  the  Christian  idea  that  virginity  is 
good  in  itself,  and  so  that  any  renunciation  is  good;  this  may 
trick  us  into  feeling  it  is  lucky  for  the  poor  man  that  society 
keeps  him  unspotted  from  the  world.  The  tone  of  melancholy 
claims  that  the  poet  understands  the  considerations  opposed  to 
aristocracy,  though  he  judges  against  them;  the  truism  of  the 

423 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

reflections  in  the  churchyard,  the  universality  and  impersonality 
this  gives  to  the  style,  claim  as  if  by  comparison  that  we  ought 
to  accept  the  injustice  of  society  as  we  do  the  inevitability  of 
death. 

One  will  look  long  among  the  writings  of  most  self-professed 
"Marxist"  critics  before  he  finds  such  profoundly  Marxist  analysis 
of  literature  as  this. 


EXCEPTIONAL  BOOK 


THE  colyumist's  dream  is  of  a  book  that  lays  down  its  thesis  in  the 
opening  sentence,  expands  it  through  the  entire  introduction,  re- 
peats it  with  variations  through  several  hundred  pages,  and  winds 
up  by  summarizing  it  in  an  epilogue.  By  such  a  test,  the  superb  lit- 
erary analysis  of  William  Empson  would  be  the  colyumist's  night- 
mare. I  have  read  this  book  three  times,  and  each  time  I  find  more 
in  it  to  reward  the  attention.  In  fact,  I  should  like,  if  I  am  able,  to 
make  this  review  simply  a  plea,  a  "come  and  buy,"  recommending 
English  Pastoral  Poetry  x  to  those  readers  who  are  also  frugal  pur- 
chasers, and  who  would  thus  prefer  a  work  of  literary  criticism  that 
they  can  live  with  to  one  that  they  can  hurry  through. 

Empson,  who  is  an  offshoot  of  I.  A.  Richards,  is  an  honor  both  to 
his  magister  and  to  himself.  He  has  made  Richards'  teachings  his 
own,  and  thereby  has  been  able  to  give  them  new  developments, 
particularly  in  laying  more  stress  upon  the  historical-transitional 
aspect  of  literary  psychology,  which  Richards  tends  more  to  consider 
in  its  arrested,  or  "flat"  aspects.  His  feeling  for  literature  as  a  social 
manifestation  is  acute,  fertile  and  well  documented.  There  are  few 
psychological  novels  that  have  the  appreciation  of  nuance,  the  ironic 
pliancy,  in  which  Empson  is  a  specialist.  You  may  legitimately  com- 
plain that  often  his  perceptions  are  too  refined,  leading  him  into 
a  welter  of  observations  that  suffer  from  lack  of  selectivity  and  drive. 

1  English  Pastoral  Poetry  is  the  American  title  of  the  book  published  in  England 
as  Some  Versions  of  Pastoral. 

424 


APPENDIX 

He  is  far  better  at  marginalia  than  at  sustained  exposition.  Obvi- 
ously, this  critic  could  write  an  intelligent  gloss  upon  every  single 
line  of  a  long  work — and  often  he  seems  to  have  proceeded  in  pre- 
cisely this  way. 

The  underlying  concern  of  English  Pastoral  Poetry  reflects  Emp- 
son's  response  to  the  salubrious  effects  that  the  "proletarian  school" 
has  exerted  upon  the  course  of  literary  criticism.  To  turn  from  Emp- 
son's  earlier  volume,  Seven  Types  of  Ambiguity,  to  his  present  book, 
is  to  realize  the  importance  of  the  new  dimension  that  the  Marxist 
emphasis  has  given  to  his  work.  Here  the  balloons  of  his  earlier 
pure  aestheticism  are  effectively  tied  to  a  social  basis  of  reference; 
the  later  work  has  a  kind  of  "gravitational  pull"  in  which  the  former 
is  lacking.  Yet  he  has  by  no  means  abandoned  the  liquidity  of  his 
previous  volume — the  happy  result  being  that  there  is  here  no  socio- 
logical simplism. 

The  opening  chapter,  on  "Proletarian  Literature,"  considers  some 
representative  statements  of  the  proletarian  school,  and  offers  rea- 
sons why,  for  the  author's  purposes,  the  aesthetic  of  proletarian  lit- 
erature should  be  considered  as  part  of  a  wider  literary  strategy, 
named  by  him  the  "pastoral  process."  Some  quotations  from  this 
chapter  may  serve  to  characterize  the  general  tenor  of  his  approach: 

"The  essential  trick  of  the  old  pastoral,  which  was  felt  to  imply 
a  beautiful  relation  between  rich  and  poor,  was  to  make  simple  peo- 
ple express  strong  feelings  (felt  as  the  most  universal  subject,  some- 
thing fundamentally  true  about  everybody)  in  learned  and  fashion- 
able language. 

"The  usual  process  for  putting  further  meanings  into  the  pastoral 
situation  was  to  insist  that  the  shepherds  were  rulers  of  sheep,  and 
so  compare  them  to  politicians  or  bishops  or  what  not;  this  piled 
the  heroic  convention  onto  the  pastoral  one,  since  the  hero  was  an- 
other symbol  of  his  whole  class. 

"The  praise  of  simplicity  usually  went  with  extreme  flattery  of  a 
a  patron  (dignified  as  a  symbol  of  the  whole  society,  through  the 
connection  of  pastoral  with  heroic).  ...  It  allowed  the  flattery  to 
be  more  extreme  because  it  helped  both  author  and  patron  to  keep 
their  self-respect.  So  it  was  much  parodied,  especially  to  make  the 
poor  man  worthy  but  ridiculous,  as  often  in  Shakespeare;  nor  is  this 
merely  snobbish  when  in  its  full  form.  The  simple  man  becomes  a 
clumsy  fool  who  yet  has  better  "sense"  than  his  betters  and  can  say 
things  more  fundamentally  true. 

425 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

"The  realistic  sort  of  pastoral  .  .  .  also  gives  a  natural  expression 
for  a  sense  of  social  injustice.  So  far  as  the  person  described  is  out- 
side society  because  too  poor  for  its  benefits  he  is  independent,  as 
the  artist  claims  to  be,  and  can  be  a  critic  of  society;  so  far  as  he  is 
forced  by  this  into  crime  he  is  the  judge  of  the  society  that  judges  him. 

"My  own  difficulty  about  proletarian  literature  is  that  when  it 
comes  off  I  find  I  am  taking  it  as  pastoral  literature;  I  read  into  it, 
or  find  that  the  author  has  secretly  put  into  it,  these  more  subtle, 
far-reaching,  and  I  think  more  permanent,  ideas." 

The  author  then  proceeds,  first  to  the  analysis  of  double  plot,  with 
the  ironic  complexities  arising  from  the  juxtaposing  of  the  central 
heroic  thread  with  its  burlesqued  counterpart,  and  thence  to  many 
variants  of  his  paradox,  in  the  figures  of  poets,  fools,  children,  mad- 
men, rogues,  who  are  in  subtle  and  devious  ways  the  bearers  of  sharp 
social  criticism.  Thus,  we  have  the  "Twist  of  Heroic-Pastoral  Ideas 
into  an  Ironical  Acceptance  of  Aristocracy"  (elucidated  by  refer- 
ence to  Shakespeare's  Sonnets);  "The  Ideal  Simplicity  Approached 
by  Resolving  Contradictions"  (Marvell's  "Garden");  "The  Pastoral 
of  the  Innocence  of  Man  and  Nature"  (Milton);  "Mock-Pastoral  as 
the  Cult  of  Independence"  (Beggar's  Opera);  "The  Child  as  Swain" 
(Alice  in  Wonderland). 

One  may,  if  he  chooses,  insist  upon  the  important  element  of  dif- 
ference between  this  general  "pastoral"  category  and  its  manifesta- 
tions in  books  of  specifically  proletarian  cast.  For  my  own  part,  I 
much  prefer  Empson's  way  of  considering  the  matter,  by  seeking  the 
permanent  forms  that  underlie  changing  historical  emphases.  In- 
deed, I  should  contend  that  one  could  not  properly  define  the  qual- 
ities of  specifically  proletarian  works  until  he  had  first  placed  them 
in  some  such  genus  as  Empson  here  proposes.  Let  us  first  see  the 
whole  line,  in  its  long  historical  continuity,  before  attempting  to 
differentiate  the  particular  characterizations  at  any  one  stage  along 
this  line.  Trying  this  approach,  in  this  book  by  a  man  who  has  a 
most  delightful  sensitiveness  to  the  fluctuant  ways  in  which  the  tac- 
tics of  compliment  and  insult  (coupled  with  bids  for  immunity)  are 
managed  in  works  of  imaginative  scope,  you  will,  I  submit,  get  here 
an  analysis  highly  provocative. 


426 


PERMANENCE  AND  CHANGE 


THIS  first  volume  of  Thomas  Mann's  trilogy,  Joseph  and  His 
Brothers,  carries  us,  as  down  a  deep  shaft,  to  old  Biblical  regions 
across  which  lie  peaceful  and  pastorally  melancholy  landscapes. 
Down  into  the  big  black  hole  of  the  past  we  drift,  until  we  come 
upon  a  world  that  lived  three  thousand  years  ago  and  is  now,  by 
Orphic  conjuring,  made  to  live  again.  The  book  has  about  it  a  qual- 
ity that  has  almost  vanished  from  contemporary  fiction.  It  is  contem- 
plative, or  ruminant — so  perhaps  one  could  speak  more  intelligently 
of  its  effects  after  a  long  interim  of  silence  during  which  one  returned 
to  it  only  in  memory.  One  must  judge  Mann,  not  as  an  adept  in 
quickly  caught  and  quickly  forgotten  impressions — his  value  resides 
rather  in  a  subtle,  patient  and  skillfully  sustained  evangelism  which 
produces  changes  in  us  capable  of  developing  through  decades. 

Mann  is  a  very  thorough  writer — and  surely  this  melancholy  vol- 
ume, with  its  astonishingly  complex  morality,  is  the  end-product  of 
his  thoroughness.  As  one  reads  it,  one  understands  the  solemn  note 
that  has  gained  prominence  in  his  later  critical  writings.  It  seems 
clear  that,  in  a  pre-scientific  era,  Mann  would  have  become  a  priest 
— or  still  farther  back,  in  more  primitive  groups,  he  would  have 
taken  his  place  in  the  college  of  elders  who  carefully  scan  the  tribal 
archives  that  all  new  acts  may  be  judged  and  shaped  by  precedent. 
Indeed,  as  we  read  this  reworking  of  the  Biblical  legends  clustered 
about  Isaac,  Jacob,  Esau,  Leah,  Rachel  and  Joseph,  we  get  a  new 
understanding  of  the  part  played  by  precedent  in  the  matter  of 
human  motives.  In  earlier  days,  we  feel,  precedent  was  not  the  purely 
legalistic  device  it  has  since  become,  a  way  of  preventing  new  de- 
cisions by  reference  to  past  decisions  made  under  different  condi- 
tions and  for  different  purposes.  The  reference  to  precedent  was  re- 
vealing rather  than  obstructive,  precisely  because  the  conditions  and 
purposes  had  remained  constant.  Again,  these  precedents  were  not 
the  individualized  events  we  meet  when  we  go  back  to  the  records 
of  1929  to  find  out  what  the  Supreme  Court  ruled  in  the  case  of 
Johns  vs.  Johns.  They  were  mythical  precedents:  they  were  group 
products — they  were  "right"  because  they  took  their  form  as  a  col- 
427 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

lective  enterprise.  They  were  selective  and  interpretative,  the  results 
of  long  revision  at  the  hands  of  many  people  through  many  years. 
They  were  the  "key"  situations  of  the  tribe  that  had  evolved  them, 
after  all  that  could  be  forgotten  had  been  forgotten  and  all  that 
could  not  be  forgotten  had  been  made  salient.  They  were  not  "facts," 
as  legalistic  precedents  are,  but  communal  works  of  art.  And  when 
the  individual  understood  his  own  role  by  reference  to  them  (saying, 
"I  am  like  Jacob,"  or  "This  situation  is  like  Leah's")  he  was  being 
himself  and  a  member  of  his  group  simultaneously.  It  is  in  this  sense 
that  Mann  sets  about  to  write  of  "people  who  do  not  know  precisely 
who  they  are,"  and  "the  phenomenon  of  open  identity  which  accom- 
panies that  of  imitation  and  succession." 

At  least,  whether  one  agrees  with  the  suggestion  or  not,  it  is  the 
feeling  that  one  takes  away  with  him  from  the  reading  of  Mann's 
latest  piously  ironic  novel.  What  one  can  do  with  it,  I  do  not  know. 
The  author  has  simplified  and  idealized  his  point  of  view  by  elim- 
inating attempts  at  modern  parallels.  He  is  not  concerned  with 
strict  modern-ancient  correspondences  like  Joyce,  who  would  chart 
the  new  equivalents  to  the  old  wanderings  of  Odysseus.  In  the  altered 
ways  of  life  which  technology  has  brought,  perhaps  the  situations  are 
so  radically  changed  from  those  earlier  pecuniary  or  stock-breeding 
days  that  we  must  abandon  the  attempt  to  understand  ourselves  by 
reference  to  the  precedents  of  myth.  Again,  the  myths  are  bewilder- 
ingly  intermingled:  they  are  not  living  art,  but  art  in  a  museum.  Yet 
even  for  this  state  of  affairs,  perhaps,  there  is  a  mythical  parallel — 
for  is  there  not  everywhere  the  legend  of  the  Tower  of  Babel  that 
arose  to  confound  primitive  men  when  they  were  elated  by  such  am- 
bitions as  have  in  recent  centuries  elated  us,  and  the  vast  projects  of 
building  were  confused  by  a  multitude  of  tongues  quite  as  our  spe- 
cialized vocabularies  continually  threaten  to  confuse  us? 

"Without  passion  and  guilt  nothing  could  proceed."  If  I  chose 
the  word  "thorough"  as  the  label  that  might  most  briefly  character- 
ize this  book,  it  is  because  Joseph  and  His  Brothers  profoundly  pur- 
sues the  ramifications  of  this  thought.  The  strange  intermingling 
of  kindness  and  cruelty  which  animates  it  could  all,  I  believe,  be 
shown  to  flow  from  this  statement.  The  pervasive  imagery  of  the  pit, 
the  phenomena  of  indentured  service  which  he  considers  with  in- 
sistence, his  constant  concern  with  the  psychology  of  waiting,  his 
almost  fierce  emphasis  upon  the  cult  of  fertility,  his  remarks  on  the 
"upper  and  lower  half  of  the  sphere,"  his  deliberate  affronts  to  the 
428 


APPENDIX 

mechanistic  concepts  of  causality,  his  ironic  sympathy  with  oppor- 
tunism, his  somewhat  awestruck  pondering  on  the  subject  of  recur- 
rence— all  this,  I  believe,  could  be  shown  to  follow,  directly  or  in- 
directly, from  his  care  as  to  the  part  which  the  "problem  of  evil" 
plays  in  the  civic,  or  historic  process.  An  author  in  search  of  meta- 
phor, he  makes  us  feel  that  life  itself  is  metaphorical. 

I  have  probably  said  enough  to  suggest  that  another  word  might 
replace  my  adjective  "thorough."  Mann's  new  book  is  "mystical." 
It  brings  us  to  the  edge  of  things,  to  that  fearful  dropping-off  place 
which,  before  the  feat  of  Columbus,  could  be  geographically  imag- 
ined but  has  since  usually  been  relegated  solely  to  a  disposition  of 
the  mind  under  duress,  though  it  is  brought  back  once  more  in  the 
physical  sense  perhaps  by  the  contemporary  physicist's  suggestion 
that  electronic  activity  is  like  a  radiation  from  a  nonexistent  core 
(as  were  it  to  well  up  from  some  other  region  like  water  quietly  mov- 
ing the  sand  at  the  bottom  of  a  spring).  It  is  an  eschatological  book, 
dealing  with  the  "science  of  last  things."  As  such,  it  is  disturbing, 
and  will  perhaps  be  rightly  repudiated  by  happier  fellows  who  pre- 
fer to  shape  their  acts  by  contingencies  alone.  To  live  by  contin- 
gencies alone  is  unquestionably  the  most  comforting  way  to  live — 
and  contented  ages  have  probably  been  those  in  which  the  concepts 
of  duty  were  wholly  of  this  specific  sort,  harvesting  when  the  crops 
were  ripe,  shearing  when  the  sheep  were  heavy,  and  coupling  when 
the  body  felt  the  need  of  its  counterbody.  But  the  world  of  contin- 
gencies is  now  wholly  in  disarray.  In  our  despicable  economic  struc- 
ture, to  do  the  things  thus  immediately  required  of  us  is  too  often 
to  do  despicable  things.  It  is  at  such  times,  I  imagine,  that  the  ques- 
tion of  duty  naturally  becomes  more  generalized,  and  attempts  at 
denning  the  "ultimate  vocation"  seem  most  apropos.  Mann's  new 
book  is  written  in  this  spirit. 


BY  ICE,  FIRE,  OR  DECAY? 


AFTER  having  been  led,  by  the  explicitly  formulated  objections 
of  some  dissenters,  to  expect  that  I  would  dislike  Odets'  Paradise 

429 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

Lost,  I  finally  went  to  see  it,  and  liked  it  enormously.  I  even  found 
that  the  scandalous  number  of  entrances  and  exits  did  not  bother 
me,  except  in  a  few  instances  where  the  action  was  not  paralleled 
by  a  similar  movement  in  the  lines  themselves.  And  though  I  had 
in  the  past  complained  against  propagandists  who  compromised 
their  cause  by  the  depiction  of  people  not  worth  saving,  and  had 
been  led  to  believe  that  Odets  transgressed  on  this  score,  I  found  on 
the  contrary  that  the  characters,  for  all  their  ills,  possessed  the  in- 
gredients of  humanity  necessary  for  making  us  sympathetic  to  their 
disasters.  To  me  there  was  nothing  arbitrary  about  the  prophetic 
rebirth  in  Leo's  final  speech.  And  as  I  had  witnessed,  not  pedestrian 
realism,  but  the  idealizations  of  an  expert  stylist,  I  carried  away 
something  of  the  exhilaration  that  good  art  gives  us  when,  by  the 
ingratiations  of  style,  it  enables  us  to  contemplate  even  abhorrent 
things  with  calmness. 

The  opportunity  to  examine  the  play  in  print  has  even  heightened 
my  admiration,  by  revealing  the  subtlety,  complexity  and  depths  of 
the  internal  adjustments.  For  all  his  conscious  symbolism,  the  author 
has  not  merely  pieced  together  a  modern  allegory.  His  work  seems 
to  embody  ritualistic  processes  that  he  himself  was  not  specifically 
concerned  with — and  I  want  to  discuss  them  briefly. 

At  the  close  of  Act  I,  as  the  characters  listen  to  Pearl  playing  the 
piano  upstairs,  Gus  says:  "And  when  the  last  day  comes — by  ice  or 
fire — she'll  be  up  there  playin'  away."  I  consider  this  the  "inform- 
ing" line  of  the  play.  "By  ice  or  fire."  It  is  interesting  that,  in  The 
Partisan  Review,  James  T.  Farrell,  who  wrote  a  book  called  Judg- 
ment  Day,  should  have  objected  to  a  work  having  this  eschatological 
theme  as  its  point  of  departure.  But  Farrell  is  in  the  stage  of  pure 
antithesis,  turning  his  old  Catholicism  upside  down — and  hence 
preferring,  for  the  time  at  least,  the  simple,  hard-boiled  reversal  of 
his  religious  past.  Odets  may  be  more  complex,  admitting  elements 
that  Farrell  could  not  admit  without  a  corresponding  expansion  of 
his  aesthetic  frame.  Farrell's  resistance  is  justified  on  the  grounds  of 
self-preservation,  rather  than  as  a  mature  act  of  critical  appraisal. 

Along  with  the  "ice  or  fire"  epigram,  I  should  note  the  significant 
credo  of  Pike  who,  within  the  conditions  of  the  play,  comes  nearest 
to  the  "proletarian"  philosophy:  "I'm  sayin'  the  smell  of  decay  may 
sometimes  be  a  sweet  smell."  And  taking  these  two  passages  as  semi- 
nal, I  should  say  that  the  play  deals  with  three  modes  of  "redemp- 
tion"— redemption  by  ice,  fire,  or  decay — and  finally  chooses  the 

43° 


APPENDIX 

third.  Like  certain  ancient  heresies,  it  pictures  the  "good"  arising 
from  the  complete  excess  of  the  "bad,"  as  the  new  growth  sprouts 
from  the  rotting  of  the  seed. 

The  first  act  rejects  "redemption  by  ice."  In  its  simplest  objectiviza- 
tion,  we  find  the  situation  placed  before  our  eyes  in  the  form  of 
Ben's  statue  on  the  stage.  The  friends,  Ben  and  Kewpie,  had  been 
under  ice  together;  they  had  been  skating  with  a  third  boy,  when  the 
ice  broke  and  their  friend  had  drowned.  The  spell  of  this  "life-in- 
death"  is  still  upon  them.  As  Ben  formulates  it  later:  "We're  still 
under  ice,  you  and  me — we  never  escaped!"  And  again:  "  'Did  we 
die  there?'  I  keep  asking  myself,  'or  are  we  living?'  "  The  first  act 
establishes  this  situation — and  Acts  II  and  III  show  us  the  author's 
attempts  to  shape  a  magic  incantation  whereby  the  spell  is  broken. 

Act  II,  by  my  analysis,  considers  and  rejects  "redemption  by  fire." 
It  is  in  this  way  that  I  would  locate  the  symbolic  element  underlying 
the  remarkable  realism  of  Mr.  May,  the  professional  firebug.  Leo 
refuses  to  accept  his  impotent  partner  Sam's  proposal  that  they  solve 
their  financial  troubles  by  employing  this  man.  But  Pike,  the  prole- 
tarian furnace  tender  (who  would  thaw  the  ice),  had  proclaimed  his 
belief  in  "redemption  by  decay."  He  is  thus  the  bridge  between 
Sam's  fire  solution  and  Leo's  rebirth  from  decay.  And  we  complete 
the  pattern  in  the  third  act  where,  as  the  process  of  decay  is  fin- 
ished, Leo's  prophecy  of  rebirth  sprouts  from  the  rotted  grain,  and 
the  curtain  descends. 

I  might  note  other  features  of  the  internal  organization.  Thus, 
Pike's  mere  entrance  at  times  foreshadows  the  "fatality"  of  the  plot. 
For  he  knocks  at  the  door  (1)  just  as  Julie  has  said,  "When  the  time 
comes — "  (2)  when  Gus  has  said  he  would  like  to  "go  far  away  to  the 
South  Sea  islands  and  eat  coconuts,"  and  (3)  when,  Clara  having 
asked  "Is  it  the  end?"  Leo  has  answered,  "Not  yet."  At  these  crucial 
moments,  Pike's  message  is  in  the  offing.  But  whereas  the  message 
remains  the  same  throughout  the  play,  Leo  (the  "father")  must  as- 
similate it  in  his  own  way,  as  he  does  by  conscientiously  completing 
the  symbolism  of  the  rotting  grain.  (The  same  basic  pattern  of 
thought  may  be  seen  in  the  "conscientious  corruption"  of  Andre 
Gide,  who  has  significantly  entitled  his  autobiography  "Si  le  grain  ne 
meurt.") 

Approached  from  this  angle,  Krutch's  doubts  as  to  the  play's  sta- 
tistical value  (its  actuarial  truth  as  a  survey  of  the  bourgeoisie)  may 
seem  less  relevant.  If  a  poet  happens  to  have  the  sort  of  imagination 

431 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

that  revivifies  an  old  heresy  in  modern  details,  how  would  he  go 
about  it  to  put  this  imaginative  pattern  into  objective,  dramatic 
form?  At  other  times,  he  might  have  externalized  the  pattern  as  a 
struggle  between  angels  and  demons,  or  between  Indians  and  set- 
tlers, or  between  patriot  and  foe,  or  in  the  "war  of  the  sexes,"  etc. 
At  present,  in  keeping  with  current  emphasis,  he  may  symbolize  it 
with  relation  to  an  interpretation  of  historic  trends,  where  its  "pro- 
phetic" truth  is  enough.  Incidentally,  the  subjective  origin  of  the 
pattern  need  not  impair  the  objective  validity  of  the  symbols  used. 
If  the  bourgeoisie  is  oppressed  by  loss  of  certainty,  one  may  have 
many  good  objective  reasons  for  externalizing  the  pattern  of  his 
imagination  in  this  form,  particularly  as  the  pattern  itself  may  have 
been  established  in  the  individual  poet  precisely  by  the  effects  of 
the  same  frustrating  process. 

Our  approach  also  may  have  bearing  upon  the  comments  of  Stan- 
ley Burnshaw,  who  observed  in  The  New  Masses  that  the  play  erred 
as  political  strategy.  Inasmuch  as  the  proletariat  must  expect  the 
petty  bourgeoisie  to  become  its  allies,  he  asks,  how  could  people  so 
decayed  have  the  vitality  to  assist  in  the  tremendous  work  of  estab- 
lishing a  new  order?  This  objection  is  justified  only  if  one  does  not 
believe  in  the  Odets  formula  for  redemption,  remembering  only  the 
ash  and  not  the  Phoenix  that  arises  from  the  ash.  But  if  one  follows 
the  Odets  ritual  to  the  end,  the  objection  is  weakened.  By  the  Marx- 
ist formula,  the  complete  "proletarian"  would  require  no  process  of 
rebirth.  He  would  grow  up  with  his  morality.  He  and  it  would  be 
one.  But  the  bourgeois  would  have  to  "come  over,"  dropping  the 
morality  that  made  him  and  taking  another  in  its  place.  Converting 
the  situation  into  drama,  we  should  require  rebirth,  the  ritualistic 
changing  of  identity,  rather  than  merely  a  superficial  matter  of  climb- 
ing off  one  bandwagon  and  climbing  on  another.  And  we  should  re- 
quire the  dramatist  to  deepen  and  broaden  the  process  as  greatly  as 
possible. 

Thus,  I  question  whether  we  can  appreciate  the  play  by  a  simple 
"scientific"  test  of  its  truth,  as  in  Farrell's  naturalistic  bias,  Krutch's 
census-taking  requirements  or  Burnshaw's  question  of  united-front 
tactics.  A  more  integral  test  is  to  be  found,  I  submit,  in  a  considera- 
tion of  the  play  as  ritual.  And  those  who  respond  to  its  ritual  will  be 
enabled  to  entertain  drastic  developments,  without  drawing  simply 
upon  a  masochistic  desire  to  be  punished. 

432 


FEARING'S  NEW  POEMS 


"THE  alarm  that  shatters  sleep,  at  least,  is  real"  .  .  .  Before  you 
have  finished  one  stanza  in  a  poem  by  Kenneth  Fearing,  you  have 
felt  the  trend  of  its  stimulus,  and  have  set  yourself  to  the  proper 
mode  of  expectation  and  response.  I  know  of  no  poet  who  can  swing 
you  into  his  stride  with  greater  promptness.  Taking  as  his  characters 
the  stock  situations  of  modern  history's  problem  play,  he  offers  us 
a  slogan-laden  "science  of  last  things,"  in  imagery  found  among  the 
piles  of  the  metropolis.  Confronted  by  all  the  alloys,  substitutes,  and 
canned  goods  that  are  offered  us  by  the  priesthood  of  business,  the 
catch  phrases  of  salesmanship  and  commercialized  solace,  Fearing 
has  put  the  utilitarian  slogans  to  a  use  beyond  utility,  as  he  rhyth- 
mically sorrows,  with  their  help,  assigning  them  an  interpretative 
function  in  his  poems  that  they  lack  in  their  "state  of  nature." 

By  his  method,  you  may  peer  beyond  some  trivial  advertisement 
to  discern  despair,  migration,  even  "Amalgamated  Death"  (since  the 
poet,  after  a  secular  fashion,  is  given  to  carrying  out  the  churchman's 
injunction:  "Thou  shalt  live  a  dying  life").  The  handwriting  in  a 
letter  becomes  the  handwriting  on  the  wall;  and  I  feel  sure  that,  with 
his  expressive  resources,  he  could  readily  transmogrify  a  pat  saluta- 
tion like  "Dear  Sir"  into  a  prognosis  of  the  vast  collapse  of  Western 
culture. 

Perhaps  the  quickest  way  to  characterize  his  book  (Dead  Reckon- 
ing) is  by  a  paragraph  of  cullings,  one  from  each  poem,  that  convey 
the  quality  of  the  poet's  burden:  "shadows  that  stop  for  a  moment 
and  then  hurry  past  the  windows"  .  .  .  "the  phone  put  down  upon 
the  day's  last  call"  .  .  .  "until  then  I  travel  by  dead  reckoning  and 
you  will  take  your  bearings  from  the  stars"  .  .  .  "it  is  late,  it  is 
cold,  it  is  still,  it  is  dark"  .  .  .  "fill  in  the  coupon"  .  .  .  "how  the 
moon  still  weaves  upon  the  ground,  through  the  leaves,  so  much 
silence  and  so  much  peace"  .  .  .  "Lunch  With  the  Sole  Survivor" 
.  .  .  "is  it  the  very  same  face  seen  so  often  in  the  mirror"  .  .  .  "not 
until  we've  counted  the  squares  on  the  wallpaper"  .  .  .  "on  the 
bedroom  floor  with  a  stranger's  bullet  through  the  middle  of  his 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

heart,  clutching  at  a  railroad  table  of  trains  to  the  South"  .  .  .  "It 
is  posted  in  the  club-rooms"  ...  "a  privileged  ghost  returned,  as 
usual,  to  haunt  yourself?"  .  .  .  "cast,  in  the  order  of  disappear- 
ance" .  .  .  "tomorrow,  yes,  tomorrow"  .  .  .  "soothed  by  Walter 
Lippmann  and  sustained  by  Haig  &  Haig"  .  .  .  "if  now  there  is 
nothing"  .  .  .  "the  empty  bottle  again,  and  the  shattered  glass"  .  .  . 
"as  armies  march  and  cities  burn"  .  .  .  "ask  the  family  on  the  illu- 
minated billboard"  .  .  .  "the  stones,  so  often  walked"  .  .  .  "the 
natives  can  take  to  caves  in  the  hills,  said  the  British  MP"  .  .  . 
"wages:  death"  .  .  .  "Take  a  Letter"  .  .  .  "with  the  wind  still  rat- 
tling the  windows"  .  .  .  "why  do  you  lay  aside  the  book  in  the 
middle  of  the  chapter  to  rise  and  walk  to  the  window  and  stare  into 
the  street"  .  .  .  "Dance  of  the  Mirrors"  .  .  .  "this  house  where  the 
suicide  lived"  .  .  .  "something  that  we  can  use,  like  a  telephone 
number"  .  .  .  "Wait,  listen." 

There  is  a  risk  here,  in  the  "statistical"  quality  of  the  perspective 
by  which  the  poet  sizes  up  the  "thousand  noble  answers  to  a  thou- 
sand empty  questions,  by  a  patriot  who  needs  the  dough."  There  is 
such  limitation  of  subject  matter  as  may  come  of  taking  the  whole 
world  as  one's  theme.  All  people  look  like  ants,  when  seen  from  the 
top  of  a  skyscraper — and  the  poet's  generalized  approach  often  seems 
like  the  temptation  of  a  high  place.  Connected  with  this  is  an  over- 
reliance  upon  accumulation  and  repetition,  traits  that  derive  also 
from  his  disposition  to  establish  a  very  marked  pattern,  which  he 
expands  as  a  theme  with  variations.  Hence,  for  my  part,  the  items  I 
liked  best  were  "Pantomime"  ("She  sleeps,  lips  round,  see  how  at 
rest"  .  .  .  ),  a  poem  of  tenderness  and  meditation  that  is  very  mov- 
ing, and  the  opening  "Memo"  ("Is  there  still  any  shadow  there,  on 
the  rainwet  window  of  the  coffeepot"  .  .  .  ) — where  the  general- 
ized plaint  is  introduced  in  less  head-on  fashion.  "Devil's  Dream" 
(a  kind  of  "There  but  for  the  grace  of  God  goes  our  author"  theme) 
is  another  poignant  accomplishment,  by  reason  of  the  more  personal 
note.  The  author's  rhetoric  of  attack  ranges  from  the  slap  to  a  tear- 
ing of  the  hair  (with  perhaps  his  "En  Route"  among  the  most  suc- 
cessful of  the  generalized  statements);  and  all  his  lines  bear  convinc- 
ing testimony — in  speech  swift  and  clear — of  estrangement  in  a 
world  awry,  where  many  are  asked  to  face  the  emptiness  of  failure 
in  order  that  a  few  may  face  the  emptiness  of  success. 


434 


GROWTH  AMONG  THE  RUINS 


THOSE  who  believe  that  history-in-the-making  is  only  what  comes 
over  the  wires,  for  front-page  headlines,  are  advised  to  read  no  farther 
in  this  article.  For  I  would  here  salute  a  happening  of  a  deeper,  more 
solemn  order.  This  happening  concerns  the  processes  of  history, 
after  they  have  been  strained  through  the  consciousness  of  a  sensitive, 
imaginative  and  resourceful  artist.  I  refer,  in  brief,  to  Peter  Blume's 
new  painting,  "The  Eternal  City,"  now  on  exhibit  at  the  Julien  Levy 
galleries,  in  New  York  City. 

For  those  who  have  not  seen  the  reports  in  the  press,  revealing  the 
excitement  of  both  aesthetic  and  political  cast  the  picture  has  aroused, 
I  might  record  the  fact  that  this  is  not  merely  a  one-man  exhibit, 
but  a  one-picture  exhibit,  comprising  one  large  canvas  and  six  draw- 
ings of  details  made  preparatory  to  work  on  the  ensemble.  The  oil 
is  thus  composed  of  many  remarkably  executed  miniatures,  each  an 
event  in  itself,  but  all  brought  within  a  larger  frame  of  reference.  The 
picture  is  the  result  of  nearly  four  years'  concentrated  application. 
It  has  subtleties  of  pigment  and  draughtsmanship,  and  solidities  of 
architectural  construction  that  are  purely  visual  experiences,  beyond 
the  reach  of  verbal  description.  Blume  knows  how  to  flood  his  canvas 
in  a  strange  light.  And  all  such  qualities  one  could  not  verbalize  with 
any  greater  justice  than  one  could  verbalize  the  taste  of  an  orange. 

I  shall  here  discuss  only  the  material  in  Blume's  new  work  that 
does  lend  itself  to  verbalizing.  To  label  bluntly:  we  might  call  "The 
Eternal  City"  the  painting  of  a  surrealist,  turned  social  propagandist. 
But  one  must  hasten  to  modify.  It  does  not  trifle  with  enigmas,  as 
so  much  of  surrealism  does.  And,  as  propaganda,  it  extends  its  range 
until  a  total  personality  is  encompassed;  the  propagandist  element 
merely  takes  its  place  as  one  function  in  a  broad  texture  of  conscious- 
ness, having  much  more  scope  and  complexity  than  the  artist  could 
possibly  include  if  he  conceived  of  propaganda  as  a  purely  utilitarian 
act  (to  "sell"  this  policy  as  against  that  policy). 

To  suggest  the  quality  of  the  total  texture,  I  propose  as  subtitle: 
"Growth  among  the  Ruins."  In  the  scattered  bits  of  architectural 

435 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

fragments,  vestiges  of  different  styles  and  periods,  surviving  in  various 
stages  of  decomposition,  we  see  the  clutter  and  accumulation  of 
past  ages.  And  out  of  this  a  strikingly  ambivalent  vita  nuova  is  emerg- 
ing. There  is  "growth"  in  two  senses:  there  is  malign  growth,  in 
the  repulsive  head  of  Mussolini,  a  salient  popping-forth  across  the 
picture  like  a  Jack-in-the-bandbox  with  spring  released.  And  for 
benign  growth,  there  is  a  stately  and  calmly  assertive  tree.  The  head 
and  the  tree  (a  "tree  of  life"?)  are  at  once  linked  and  divided:  for 
both  are  done  in  green — the  one  green  benign,  and  the  other  malign. 

The  tree  and  Mussolini,  on  the  right,  are  countered  on  the  left  by 
a  different  lineage.  We  see  an  agonizing  Christ,  crucified  with  honors 
(the  wrong  honors — mainly  gifts  of  wealth  and  military  symbols). 
Perhaps  he  even  bears  a  literal  cross,  in  the  swords  crossed  upon  his 
knees.  Beneath  him  is  an  alms  box — and  lower  in  the  picture  is  a 
beggar  woman,  soliciting  alms,  degraded  with  poverty. 

Seen  from  another  angle:  the  picture  may  be  divided  roughly  like 
a  medieval  stage.  In  the  foreground  is  the  pit  (hell),  with  its  two 
plotting  figures  (racketeer  and  gangster,  summarizing  perhaps  "crimes 
of  cunning"  and  "crimes  of  violence").  These  figures  are  active; 
their  faces  reveal  intention;  their  placing  on  the  canvas  puts  them 
under  the  aegis  of  Mussolini,  who  is  himself  springing  from  pit 
sources.  There  are  other  figures,  moving  to  emerge  from  this  pit 
to  the  level  of  earth — a  level  on  which  a  peculiar  kind  of  panic  is 
taking  place.  People  confront  soldiers  agonizingly;  while  two  Cossack- 
like soldiers,  mounted,  are  allowing  women  to  slip  beneath  the  bellies 
of  their  horses.  This  panic  is  obviously,  in  "dream-logic,"  associated 
with  the  one  popping  eye  of  Mussolini,  who  casts  a  spell  of  "evil  eye" 
upon  the  scene.  In  the  background,  you  reach  the  "heavenly"  level: 
remote  mountains  rise  on  the  left,  while  houses  of  an  unpeopled  city 
(tomblike,  suggesting  a  "city  of  the  dead")  are  banked  against  the 
slope  of  a  nearer  mountain  on  the  right.  We  should  also  note  in  the 
immediate  foreground,  raised  above  the  level  of  the  pit,  the  marble 
replicas  of  two  lovers,  in  sexual  embrace,  and  broken  into  fragments. 
It  is  on  one  of  these  fragments  that  the  artist  signs  his  name,  in  letters 
like  carving  on  a  tomb. 

The  state  of  panic  in  the  central  drama  suggests  action  at  cross 
purposes,  an  agitation  not  "organized,"  but  balked.  In  the  fore- 
ground, sniffing  tentatively  at  the  broken  statuary,  is  a  dog,  "spec- 
tator" of  this  breakage  (a  breakage  that  none  the  less  perpetuates  a 
point  of  crisis).  And  on  a  balcony  there  is  an  American  tourist  view- 
436 


APPENDIX 

ing  the  central  drama  (the  clash  between  people  and  soldiers)  with 
a  collector's  interest  (it  is  a  grotesque  touch:  this  inadequacy  of  her 
response,  as  she  squints  through  a  lorgnette,  lest  she  miss  anything, 
whereas  one  knows  that  she  could  not  possibly  fail  to  miss  it  all). 
Meyer  Schapiro  called  to  my  attention  how  much  of  such  perception- 
at-one-remove  there  is  in  this  picture,  notably  in  the  many  miniatures 
of  art-objects,  while  the  tourist  is  observing  the  central  upheaval 
itself  as  though  it  were  a  picture. 

When  I  say  that  "The  Eternal  City"  is  "propaganda-plus,"  I  have 
in  mind  the  complex  way  in  which  political  means  have  been  fused 
with  other  elements,  religious,  sexual  and  naturalistic.  A  psycho- 
analyst might  even  omit  the  political  elements  altogether,  with  re- 
vealing and  relevant  results.  The  Mussolini  head  could  be  easily 
treated  as  a  menacing  kind  of  super-ego  in  phallic  guise  (an  invita- 
tion censorially  rephrased  as  a  "thou  shalt  not")  surveying  the  scene 
with  an  evil  eye  that  blasts,  causing  disintegration  and  petrifaction 
of  the  lovers  and  leading  to  the  midway  state  of  panic.  And  the 
author's  choice  of  bogeyman  is  certainly  drawn  from  a  deep  child- 
hood level  of  experience,  since  it  is  in  early  childhood  that  we  first 
learn  to  be  jarred  and  fascinated  by  the  sudden  leer  of  such  a  puppet, 
leaping  from  his  dark  box. 

The  possible  interconnections  are  endless;  for  there  is  "dream-logic" 
in  this  painting,  as  well  as  conscious  ideology,  and  the  interaction  of 
the  two  is  what  gives  it  its  depth  and  scope.  If  you  draw  a  diagonal 
line  from  upper  left  to  lower  right,  for  instance,  you  will  find  that 
above  this  line  all  is  in  brightness  (buildings,  mountains,  the  central 
scene,  the  tree,  and  the  salient  head);  below  the  line  there  is  darkness, 
even  in  some  areas  double  darkness,  except  for  a  focus  of  illumination 
about  the  figure  of  Christ.  Here  are  the  pit,  the  fragmentary  lovers 
and  the  beggar  woman.  All  beneath  the  diagonal  seems  to  symbolize 
an  out-of-which;  above  the  diagonal,  an  into-which. 

Is  it  not  "history"  too  ("basic"  history)  that  there  is,  in  this  picture, 
no  human  figure  of  benignity?  The  Christ  and  beggar  woman  are 
outraged;  even  the  man  and  woman  in  devotional  posture  in  the 
shadows  are  bringing  no  elevated  attitude,  but  only  some  of  their 
concerns.  There  are  the  beautiful,  unpeopled,  tomblike  buildings, 
the  austere  mountains,  the  ruddy  earthen  light  and  the  tree — but 
there  is  no  corresponding  human  vessel  of  such  elements.  Is  this 
depersonalization  of  the  benign  inevitable,  after  so  many  centuries 
intelligently  spent  upon  the  questioning  of  human  motives?  So  that, 

437 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

for  us,  benignity  is  not  in  the  smith,  but  in  the  spreading  tree  be- 
neath which  the  smithy  stands. 


LETTERS  TO  THE  EDITOR 


i  .    ON    PSYCHOLOGY 

MRS.  MALAMUD'S  article  1  is  so  suggestive  and  engrossing  that 
one  would  be  doing  the  right  thing  by  simply  registering  his  thanks 
and  calling  it  a  day.  But  I  guess  all  writers  are  ingrates;  and  when 
asked  to  comment  on  another  writer's  work,  they  end  by  objecting 
because  the  work  was  not  done  precisely  as  they  would  have  done  it 
(if  they  could  have  done  it!).  So  I  shall  shamefacedly  proceed  to  offer 
some  reservations  of  a  niggling  sort.  Since  I  cannot  "put  in  my  oar" 
by  going  Mrs.  Malamud  one  better,  all  that  is  left  is  for  me  to  go  her 
one  worse. 

With  regard  to  the  "macrocosm-microcosm"  relationship  between 
the  artist-spokesman  and  his  group:  It  is,  of  course,  a  possibility  that 
experience  undergoes  some  important  change  of  quality  as  we  turn 
from  the  practical  world  to  the  aesthetic  world.  We  may,  with  Mrs. 
Malamud,  work  on  the  assumption  of  a  continuity  whereby  there  is 
a  single  line  of  responses,  intense  at  one  end  and  tenuous  at  the  other, 
a  graded  series  "more  or  less  accentuated"  as  we  move  from  the 
preoccupied  toward  the  trivial  end  of  the  spectrum,  but  the  same  in 
quality  throughout.  Yet  there  is  the  other  possibility:  that  intense 
aesthetic  engrossment  really  is  a  change  in  the  quality  of  experience, 
that  there  is  a  "critical  point"  at  which  the  shift  from  practical  action 
to  aesthetic  meditation  becomes  more  like  the  closing  of  one  door  and 
the  opening  of  another.  This  is  the  thesis  of  those  who  hold  out  for  a 
"special  aesthetic  sense."  However,  while  remaining  on  the  lookout 
for  such  possible  changes  in  quality  (discernible  perhaps  in  the  fact, 
for  instance,  that  Andreyev  seems  to  have  had  quite  a  gift  for  humor 
in  his  intimate  conversation,  but  dropped  it  when  entering  the 
chamber  of  his  characteristic  aesthetic  productions,  somewhat  as 

i  American  Journal  of  Sociology,  XLIII  (January,  1938),  578-602. 

438 


APPENDIX 

though  he  had  closed  one  door  and  opened  another)  we  may  find  it 
necessary  to  abide  by  Mrs.  Malamud's  "macrocosm-microcosm"  as- 
sumption, incidentally  an  assumption  about  the  relationship  between 
group  and  spokesman  that  is  shared  by  our  greatest  contemporary 
novelist,  Thomas  Mann. 

In  any  case,  there  is  a  level  at  which  the  artist  cannot  "vote."  That 
is,  he  does  not  ask  himself,  "Shall  I  cast  my  ballot  for  this  or  for  that?" 
For,  even  where  there  is  some  such  fluctuancy  as  to  specific  policies 
discernible  on  the  surface,  look  beneath  it  and  you  will  find  an  under- 
lying level  of  firm  conviction.  For  instance,  at  one  point  in  his  rem- 
iniscences of  Andreyev,  Gorki  tells  of  a  plot  that  occurred  to  Andreyev 
on  the  spur  of  the  moment.  Gorki  had  just  described  an  acquaintance 
as  "a  tiger  out  of  a  fur  shop."  The  phrase  struck  Andreyev's  fancy, 
and  he  proceeded  to  improvise: 

I  must  describe  a  man  who  has  convinced  himself  that  he  is  a 
hero,  a  tremendous  destroyer  of  all  that  exists,  and  has  become 
frightful  to  himself  even — yesl  Everybody  believes  him, — so  well 
has  he  deceived  himself.  But  somewhere  in  his  own  corner, — in 
real  life, — he  is  a  mere  miserable  nonentity,  is  afraid  of  his  wife 
or  even  of  his  cat. 

The  thing  that  strikes  one  about  this  project  (if  we  may  assume 
that  Gorki  reported  it  correctly)  is  a  spontaneous  equating  of  "hero" 
with  "a  tremendous  destroyer  of  all  that  exists."  Here  would  be  the 
underlying  level  of  unquestioned  values.  And  if  we  could  assume  a 
"macrocosm-microcosm"  continuity  between  writer  and  audience, 
we  could  detect  the  tremendous  social  "programs  of  action"  implicit 
in  such  equations. 

It  is  possible,  however,  that  Jung's  terms,  "introvert"  and  "extra- 
vert,"  are  too  broad  for  purposes  of  accurate  analysis  along  such  lines. 
Mrs.  Malamud  writes:  "For  Jung  a  symbol  is  that  which  expresses  a 
relatively  unknown  fact  in  the  best  possible  way."  And  so  might 
Jung's  own  terms  be  somewhat  too  "symbolic"?  And  might  a  study 
of  underlying  equations  (such  as  the  traits  a  writer  regularly  links 
with  his  notions  of  hero  and  villain,  success  and  failure,  purpose  and 
frustration,  interest  and  boredom,  indictment  and  consolation)  make 
such  analysis  more  precise?  Perhaps  Jung's  dichotomy  would  still 
apply  as  a  summarizing  classification  for  our  results;  but  that  would 
remain  to  be  disclosed  afterward,  after  the  critic  had  attempted  to 
439 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

locate,  by  specific  analysis,  the  different  types  of  character-recipe 
embodied  in  art  works  and  the  correspondingly  different  kinds  of 
conclusions  or  exhortations  implicit  in  them.  There  seem  to  be  overly 
fatalistic  implications  in  Jung's  dichotomy,  leading  in  the  end  to  a 
kind  of  "a  man  is  what  he  is"  attitude.  But  by  attempting  to  disclose 
and  discuss  concrete  equations  of  value  (what  specific  traits  equal 
"hero,"  "failure,"  etc.)  we  might  not  only  disclose  different  types 
of  strategy,  but  might  be  able  to  adopt  relevant  educative  measures 
for  bringing  up  for  conscious  criticism,  and  so  counteracting  some- 
what, implicit  equations  that  lead  to  faulty  means-selection. 

"Within  recent  years  there  has  been  a  noticeable  trend  in  the  di- 
rection of  a  psychological  approach  to  the  study  of  groups  and  group 
behavior  in  the  literature  of  both  sociology  and  psychology,"  Mrs. 
Malamud  writes.  The  study  of  psychology,  of  course,  requires  by 
definition  that  the  main  emphasis  be  upon  psychology.  But,  when 
considering  a  full  statement  of  sociological  factors,  surely  we  should 
also  be  grateful  for  the  admonitions  of  Mr.  William  F.  Ogburn,  in 
his  article,  "The  Influence  of  Inventions  on  American  Social  Insti- 
tutions in  the  Future,"  in  the  America?!  Journal  of  Sociology  for 
November,  1937,  pointing  to  the  important  part  played  by  techno- 
logical invention  in  affecting  social  change.  Might  we  be  justified 
in  playing  off  these  two  articles  against  each  other  somewhat,  noting 
their  differently  directed  emphases  and  speculating  as  to  what  might 
be  the  resultant  emphasis  from  the  combining  of  the  two? 

Mrs.  Malamud  stresses  the  importance  of  psychological  factors  in 
social  response;  Mr.  Ogburn  stresses  the  importance  of  technology  as 
an  informative  environment.  But  Mr.  Ogburn  tends  to  consider  this 
environment  in  the  lump,  as  though  it  had  the  same  general  value 
for  all.  Is  it  not  a  different  environment,  with  corresponding  differ- 
ence in  psychology,  depending  upon  one's  relationship  to  it?  And  is 
there  not  a  tremendous  difference  in  relationship,  to  be  broadly 
classified  with  reference  to  the  distinction  between  those  who  can 
approach  the  technological  changes  as  possessors  and  those  who  must 
approach  them  as  dispossessed?  The  works  of  both  Gorki  and  An- 
dreyev may  be  analyzed,  for  instance,  as  different  strategies  developed 
in  response  to  the  factor  of  alienation  (a  situation  having  both  eco- 
nomic and  psychological  aspects).  If  a  distinction  between  possession 
and  alienation  were  considered  admissible,  it  would  somewhat  fall 
afoul  of  both  Mrs.  Malamud's  and  Mr.  Ogburn's  articles.  It  would 
tend  with  Mrs.  Malamud  to  suggest  that  we  must  lay  tremendous 
440 


APPENDIX 

importance  upon  a  factor  of  psychological  differentiation  in  the 
charting  of  social  change — but  it  would  also  tend  to  employ  Mr. 
Ogburn's  stress  upon  technological  environment  as  a  way  of  suggest- 
ing further  doubts  about  the  accuracy  of  the  "introvert-extravert" 
distinction  for  analyzing  the  structure  of  psychological  strategies. 
Would  not  explicit  reference  to  matters  of  property  (both  material 
property  and  its  spiritual  counterparts,  one's  sense  of  "having  a 
property  in"  a  society's  enterprises)  serve  as  a  bridge  to  unite  the 
Malamud-Jung  psychological  emphasis  and  the  Ogburn  economic 
emphasis? 

In  both  Andreyev  and  Gorki,  I  have  said,  we  find  aspects  of  aliena- 
tion and  organized  responses  to  the  state  of  alienation.  Andreyev's 
response  suggests  some  such  metaphor  as  "life  a  nightmare."  Gorki's 
suggests  "life  a  vagabondage."  (We  may  note  a  parallel  in  the  "life 
a  flight"  metaphor  implicit  in  the  response  of  the  German  Wander- 
vbgel,  whose  "push  away  from"  preceded  the  "pull  toward"  of  Nazi- 
ism,  if  we  may  borrow  a  distinction  employed  by  Bertrand  Russell 
in  his  Analysis  of  Mind.  Or  we  may  note  a  contrast  in  the  almost 
"touristic"  connotations  of  the  "life  a  pilgrimage"  metaphor  implicit 
in  Chaucer — the  difference  in  emphasis  between  Chaucer's  perspec- 
tive and  Gorki's  perspective  reflecting  a  difference  in  their  objective 
situations.) 

Perhaps  we  should  add  an  important  modification  to  our  version 
of  the  Gorki  metaphor,  amending  it  to:  "life  a  vagabondage,  with 
cronies,"  in  contrast  with  Andreyev's  "life  a  nightmare,  alone." 
Gorki  in  his  reminiscences  of  Andreyev  reports  him  as  saying:  "1 
wish  you  were  aching  with  my  pain;  then  we  should  be  nearer  to 
one  another."  Here  we  note  a  most  drastic  "equation"  affecting  the 
development  of  the  artist's  strategy,  the  strategy  of  a  man  who  spon- 
taneously assumed  that  one  counteracted  loneliness  not  by  helping 
others  but  by  pulling  others  down  to  his  own  level  of  discomfort.  A 
similar  strategy  is  revealed  in  Gorki's  account  of  the  frightful  bed- 
time story  (about  Death  stalking  little  children)  that  Andreyev  told 
to  his  son  at  a  time  when  Andreyev  himself  was  obsessed  with  sui- 
cidal despair;  and  it  seems  to  be  present  as  a  motive  behind  such 
bogeyman  pictures  of  ubiquitous  and  omnipotent  death  as  we  get 
in  Andreyev's  Life  of  Man  (with  the  general  public  here  being  in- 
vited to  take  the  place  of  the  terrified  child  as  scapegoat  for  the 
author's  relief).  Could  we  be  accurate  enough  in  discussing  such  mat- 
ters in  terms  of  the  "extravert-introvert"  dichotomy? 
441 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

Incidentally,  in  Gorki's  reminiscences  there  is  also  a  very  striking 
account  of  a  quarrel  between  Gorki  and  Andreyev,  revealing  the 
same  kind  of  "crisis  situation"  in  the  personal  relations  of  these  two 
writers  as  Mrs.  Malamud  would  reveal  through  the  occasion  of  social 
revolution  itself.  For,  according  to  Gorki,  this  incident  produced  re- 
sentments that  were  never  afterward  removed.  The  quarrel  was  over 
the  way  Andreyev  had  reworked,  in  one  of  his  stories,  an  incident 
that  occurred  in  real  life.  The  two  men  quarreled,  according  to  Gorki, 
because  Andreyev  had  not  sought  to  appreciate  "the  manifestation 
of  a  good  honest  feeling"  (as  the  real  episode  seemed  to  Gorki  to 
contain),  but  had  instead  refurbished  it  by  introducing  "weird  de- 
tails" and  "agonizing  and  foul  mockery  at  man." 

I  could  not  help  pointing  out  to  Andreyev  the  meaning  of  his 
action,  which  was  to  me  equivalent  [incidentally,  Gorki  seems  to 
be  touching,  in  uncodified  form,  upon  the  matter  of  "equations"] 
to  murder  for  a  mere  whim.  He  reminded  me  of  the  freedom  of 
the  artist,  but  this  did  not  change  my  attitude — even  now  I  am 
not  convinced  that  such  rare  manifestations  of  ideally  human 
feelings  should  be  arbitrarily  distorted  by  the  artist,  for  the  grati- 
fication of  a  dogma  he  loves. 

Later  we  find  it  is  Gorki  who  expressed  misgivings  about  the  Rus- 
sian people,  while  Andreyev  falls  into  an  excessive  vindication  of 
them  (in  accordance  with  a  paradoxical  apologetic  of  the  sort  re- 
vealed in  Andreyev's  remark,  "the  pearl  only  grows  in  a  diseased 
shell").  Andreyev's  excessive  "anathema"  led  to  an  equally  excessive 
compensatory  "hosannah"  (as  Gorki  phrased  his  fluctuancy);  whereas 
we  see  in  Gorki  the  strategy  of  a  man  who,  through  being  less  efficient 
in  indictment,  is  also  the  more  able  to  consider  good  grounds  for 
some  indictment.  Such  treatment  of  literary  strategies  would,  I 
suppose,  fit  within  the  distinction  between  "extraversion"  and  "in- 
troversion"; but  might  it  not,  in  inviting  us  to  codify  the  specific 
ingredients  of  symbolic  constructions  (the  interrelationships  of  mean- 
ings that  authors  put  together  for  the  acceptance  and  rejection  of 
reality,  and  their  implicit  selection  of  the  "reality"  they  will  en- 
counter), be  more  prolific  in  "leads"  for  further  analysis  of  the  purely 
literary  events  from  which  sociological  deductions  would  be  made? 

In  particular,  it  seems  to  me,  the  study  of  literary  work  for  purposes 
of  social  analysis  should  look  for  "equations"  that  reveal  modes  of 


442 


APPENDIX 

combat  and  solace  (i.  e.,  the  implicit  commands  to  audience  and  self 
that  an  author's  works  exemplify).  There  seems  to  me  an  essential 
difference  in  strategy,  or  program,  between  communion  by  pulling 
others  down  to  one's  own  level  of  misfortune  (leading  to  solace  of 
the  "indictment"  sort,  to  "foul  mockery  at  man")  and  communion 
through  attempts  to  establish  human  solidarity  by  salvaging  what 
we  can.  Both  are  responses  to  situations  featuring  alienation,  and 
both  are  "ways  of  getting  along"  in  such  situations.  But  the  "extravert- 
introvert"  distinction,  as  a  "way  in,"  seems  somewhat  askew  as  an 
instrument  for  charting  the  specifically  literary  quality  of  such  lit- 
erary events. 

The  distinction  also  seems  to  me  somewhat  deficient  in  "program- 
matic" properties.  That  is,  I  question  whether  it  itself  spontaneously 
contains  the  kind  of  "implicit  commands"  required  for  a  sociological 
enterprise.  Though  we  might  find  that  a  charting  of  writer's  and 
audience's  equations  would  in  the  end  reveal  something  classifiable 
by  the  "extravert-introvert"  distinction,  I  wonder  whether  an  ap- 
proach to  them  as  "strategies,"  or  modes  of  means-selection,  might 
not  more  readily  invite  us  to  disintegrate  and  reintegrate  equations 
with  specific  reference  to  criteria  of  social  action? 

My  assumption  here  probably  is  that  a  complete  science  of  social 
analysis  would  not  be  merely  diagnostic,  but  hortatory.  I  realize  that 
many  readers  will  not  share  this  assumption,  especially  when  I  ad- 
mit my  belief  that,  if  carried  to  its  logical  conclusion,  it  would  de- 
mand a  "science  as  handmaiden  of  faith"  point  of  view,  however 
much  the  notion  of  "faith"  might  be  secularized. 

2.    ON    DIALECTIC 

THANK  you  for  inviting  me  to  participate  in  the  discussion  of 
Dr.  Kilpatrick's  engrossing  and  stimulating  article,1  embodying  a 
spirit  so  sensitive  and  humane  that  one  could  have  full  confidence  in 
a  world  educated  in  its  image.  And  in  commenting  on  so  valuable  a 
statement,  I  should  dare  to  tinker  with  it  but  slightly. 

In  a  few  spots  the  argument  seems  to  be  settled  by  epithet.  Where 
"propaganda  (bad  sense)"  is  pitted  against  "education  (full  sense)," 
all  men  of  goodwill  must  necessarily  vote  for  the  second.  But  though 
Dr.  Kilpatrick  occasionally  treads  about  the  edges  of  this  temptation, 

iOn  education  and  indoctrination,  in  The  American  Teacher,  November, 
»939- 

443 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

his  essay  as  a  whole  is  obviously  concerned  with  much  deeper  issues. 
To  approach  those,  I  should  begin  by  adding  one  more  term  to  his 
"education-ethics-intelligence-personality-freedom-democracy"  equa- 
tion (as  against  the  "propaganda-indoctrination-authoritarianism" 
equation).  This  added  term  would  be  "dialectics."  In  conformity  with 
Mead,  as  I  understand  him,  I  take  democracy  to  be  a  device  for  insti- 
tutionalizing the  dialectic  process,  by  setting  up  a  political  structure 
that  gives  full  opportunity  for  the  use  of  competition  to  a  cooperative 
end.  Allow  full  scope  to  the  dialectic  process,  and  you  establish  a 
scene  in  which  the  protagonist  of  a  thesis  has  maximum  opportunity 
to  modify  his  thesis,  and  so  mature  it,  in  the  light  of  the  antagonist's 
rejoinders. 

I  wish  I  knew  in  advance  whether  Dr.  Kilpatrick  concurs  in  my 
proposal  that  "dialectics"  be  added  to  the  benign  side  of  his  agon. 
For  I  believe  that  the  addition  might  make  a  slight  but  important 
difference  in  the  nature  of  his  argument.  Hence,  I  should  properly 
not  proceed  until  I  had  assurance  that  he  consented  to  my  offer  (par- 
ticularly since  the  offering  is  made  with  mildly  Trojan-horse  designs). 

For  I  should  want  to  insist  that  the  all-important  desirability  of 
full  opportunity  for  the  enacting  of  the  dialectic  process  should  be 
absolutely  affirmed  and  indoctrinated.  In  fact,  is  not  Dr.  Kilpatrick 
in  effect  doing  precisely  this  in  pleading  so  persuasively  for  "the  free 
play  of  intelligence"?  Yet  he  is  unnecessarily  handing  advantages  to 
the  enemy  in  trying  to  avoid  the  "charge"  of  indoctrination,  for  he 
thereby  gives  the  impression  that  the  educator  would  retire  from  his 
proper  role  as  guide  to  the  uninitiated  in  offering  them  the  fruits  of 
his  greater  maturity  and  knowledge. 

I  should  contend,  therefore,  that  the  dialectic  process  absolutely 
must  be  unimpeded,  if  society  is  to  perfect  its  understanding  of  real- 
ity by  the  necessary  method  of  give-and-take  (yield-and-advance).  And 
on  the  basis  of  this  absolute,  I  should  next  absolutely  and  undeviat- 
ingly  place  dictatorship  as  an  imperfect  medium  whose  imperfections 
are  heightened  to  a  maximum  by  organizational  efficiency.  Only  if 
all  reports  were  in  and  if  there  were  no  vital  questions  still  unan- 
swered, could  a  social  body  dispense  with  the  assistance  of  a  vocal 
opposition  in  the  maturing  of  our  chart  as  to  what  is  going  on,  which 
social  functions  are  helpful  and  which  harmful.  Dictatorships,  in 
silencing  the  opposition,  remove  the  intermediary  between  error  and 
reality.  Silence  the  human  opponent,  and  you  are  brought  flat  against 
the  unanswerable  opponent,  the  nature  of  brute  reality  itself.  In  so 
444 


APPENDIX 

far  as  your  meanings  are  incorrect,  and  you  spawn  them  and  main- 
tain them  by  organizational  efficiency  without  the  opportunity  of 
correction,  you  are  hurled  without  protection  against  the  unanswer- 
able opponent,  the  opponent  that,  not  speaking,  cannot  be  quashed 
by  the  quietus.  This  "unanswerable  opponent"  is  the  actual  state  of 
affairs  that  is  of  one  sort  while  the  authority  would  decree  it  an- 
other. Let  the  gradual  sifting  and  selection  of  persons  best  fit  for 
pivotal  roles  in  the  authoritarian  situation  progress  sufficiently,  and 
the  dictator  that  began  by  saying  only  what  he  would  like  most  to  say 
ends  by  hearing  only  what  he  would  like  most  to  hear — whereat  of 
a  sudden  the  fatal  heckler  enters,  and  he  must  hear  what  he  would 
like  least  to  hear. 

With  so  much  affirmed  absolutely,  as  gospel,  I  should  next  move 
into  the  area  of  "complicating  factors."  Such  an  area  would  be  ex- 
emplified by  Dr.  Kilpatrick's  observations  about  the  propaganda  of 
the  public  utilities.  This  would  be  placed  as  an  instance  of  the  way 
in  which  our  doctrinal  absolute  is  violated.  One  could  note  other 
violations.  Thus,  when  our  press,  radio  and  newsreels  play  up  the 
doctrines  of  some  factions  and  play  down  the  doctrines  of  others, 
we  are  again  confronting  the  dictatorial  function,  with  its  risks.  And 
in  so  far  as  these  dictatorial  functions  gain  organizational  efficiency, 
making  partial  truths  act  as  whole  truths,  they  too  move  us  closer 
to  the  unanswerable  opponent. 

As  part  of  the  dialectic  process,  this  unanswerable  opponent  takes 
social  embodiment  in  the  vessel  of  a  counter-dictatorship.  Two  forms 
of  efficient  overemphasis  break  into  dissociates — and  the  debate,  be- 
ing balked  on  the  parliamentary  plane,  moves  to  the  plane  on  which 
an  interchange  is  still  possible,  the  plane  of  force  (with  its  own  dia- 
lectic of  parry  and  thrust,  and  its  ramparts  "disputed"). 

I  do  not  flatter  myself  that,  by  repeating  this  old  story  here,  I  am 
informing  anyone  of  anything.  My  point  is  simply  to  emphasize  that, 
from  this  approach,  got  by  the  addition  of  "dialectics"  to  his  cluster 
of  terms,  the  educator's  message  can  be  presented  in  terms  of  positive 
indoctrination  (with  all  the  psychological  advantages  of  such  a  mode) 
as  against  the  tonalities  of  tentativeness  in  Dr.  Kilpatrick's  strategy 
of  presentment.  And  its  affirmation  is  based  squarely  on  a  body  of 
thought  and  information,  that  is,  on  a  tradition.  Yet,  though  affirm- 
ing his  position  as  a  doctrine,  to  be  indoctrinated,  the  indoctrinator 
need  not  encumber  himself  with  the  claim  that  his  doctrine  is  a 
finished  product  as  regards  accuracy  and  scope  in  the  filling-out  of 
445 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

its  implications  and  the  tracing  of  its  ramifications  (the  road  to  fur- 
ther development  thus  being  left  open). 

Dr.  Kilpatrick  would  even  concede  that  democracy  may,  at  some 
future  time,  need  to  be  abandoned,  or  at  least  to  be  so  modified  as 
to  have  a  radically  different  meaning  from  the  meaning  it  has  for  us. 
But  need  he  make  this  concession,  through  fear  of  "indoctrination" 
and  its  absolutes?  Even  if  times  were  such  as  to  convince  a  reasonable 
man  that,  within  the  dialectic  process  as  institutionalized  in  a  given 
structure  of  property,  parliament  and  publication,  a  large  degree  of 
dictatorship  had  arisen  in  function  (regardless  of  what  it  might  be 
called  in  name)  and  if  he  felt  that,  within  the  limitations  of  the 
scene,  this  error-breeding  function  could  be  removed  only  by  the  act 
of  a  counter-dictatorship,  he  could  still,  as  an  educator,  acclaim  as 
his  ideal  directive  the  reestablishment  of  full  dialectic  opportunity. 
And  thus,  even  in  raw  times,  he  would  affirm  a  doctrine,  grounded  in 
tradition,  that  tugged  in  the  direction  of  maturity,  towards  the  abat- 
ing of  the  rawness. 

And  where  he  could  not  do  this  greatly,  he  could  do  it  somewhat. 
There  are  several  passages  in  Dr.  Kilpatrick's  essay  that  implicitly 
embody  this  position  in  favor  of  doctrine  based  on  tradition,  for  all 
his  reluctance  to  subscribe  explicitly.  Thus,  having  equated  demo- 
cratic freedom  with  ethics,  he  observes  that  his  ideal  "is  no  higher 
than  our  best  morals  has  taught  for  some  thousands  of  years,  and  it 
is  no  higher  than  scientists  now  sternly  exact  of  each  other"  (whereat 
we  see  a  past  tradition  and  a  contemporary  tradition  merged).  Or 
when  he  speaks  of  "decent  ethics"  and  "proper  democratic  stand- 
ards," he  is  again  referring  to  public,  or  traditional,  matters  that 
impose  restrictions  upon  the  individual.  Nor,  if  this  tradition,  or  doc- 
trine, is  a  good  one,  need  we  consider  its  restrictions  as  an  infringe- 
ment of  an  individual's  liberties;  hence  we  need  not  feel  that  an 
educator  would  be  imposing  his  will  upon  the  educated  in  indoc- 
trinating it — a  free  act,  a  good  act,  and  a  rationally  motivated  (i.  e., 
induced)  act  being  the  same.  Dialectically,  the  individual's  freedom 
depends  upon  the  traditions  of  the  collectivity. 

What,  in  brief,  is  the  function  of  doctrine?  Doctrine  is  employed  in 
the  attempt  to  coach  or  induce  a  reasonable  act  which,  without  doc- 
trine, could  take  place  only  through  spontaneous  illumination  on 
the  part  of  the  individual.  And  without  either  doctrine  or  spontane- 
ous illumination,  the  act  could  be  induced  only  by  force  or  threat 
of  force  (which  impairs  the  freedom,  or  full  rationality,  of  the  act). 
446 


APPENDIX 

The  doctrinal  device,  as  localized  for  particular  scenes,  does  to  be 
sure  become  irrelevant  in  proportion  as  the  scene  undergoes  change. 
Or  the  doctrine  remains  relevant,  too  relevant,  relevant  malignly, 
as  it  is  employed  by  authorities  consciously  or  unconsciously  to  block 
the  development  of  doctrine  more  socially  useful  (doctrine  better 
suited  to  chart  the  scene).  But  to  attempt  eliminating  the  problem  of 
bad  doctrine  by  eliminating  doctrine  per  se  is  like  trying  to  elim- 
inate heart  disease  by  eliminating  hearts.  Only  by  doctrine  could  one 
"act  on  thinking,"  for  only  by  doctrine  could  one  describe  the  nature 
of  the  scene  in  which  the  act  is  to  take  place.  However,  the  dialectical, 
historical  processes  by  which  good  doctrine  becomes  bad  doctrine 
should  certainly  be  studied,  and  the  results  of  this  study  patiently 
indoctrinated,  as  a  "doctrine  of  doctrines." 

A  perennial  embarrassment  in  liberal  apologetics  has  arisen  from 
its  "surgical"  proclivity:  its  attempt  to  outlaw  a  malfunction  by  out- 
lawing the  function.  It  is  happier  when  in  the  sign  of  "emancipa- 
tion" than  when  in  the  sign  of  "control."  But  since  it  has  so  many 
just  claims  to  its  role  as  the  repository  of  much  "good"  doctrine, 
why  should  it  take  on  unnecessary  handicaps  by  allowing  "bad"  doc- 
trines to  enjoy  alone  the  strategic  advantages  that  go  with  the  doc- 
trinal act? 


DIALECTICIAN'S  HYMN 


A  VERY  clear  way  to  illustrate  the  meaning  of  an  act  is  to  say,  "The 
actor,  by  this  act,  is  saying,  in  effect  .  .  ." — then  give  the  equivalent 
in  a  declarative  sentence.  Thus  the  practice  of  shaking  hands  after 
a  game  says  in  effect:  "There  are  no  hard  feelings.  The  rivalry  does 
not  extend  beyond  the  confines  of  the  game." 

A  declarative  sentence,  in  turn,  may  often  be  best  illustrated  by 
the  optative,  as  in  resolutions  and  petitions.  Thus,  the  function  of 
the  statement,  "There  are  no  hard  feelings  .  .  .  etc."  can  be  most 
clearly  conveyed  by  translation  into  a  different  grammatical  idiom, 
"Let  there  be  no  hard  feelings  .  .  .  etc." 

In  the  following  lines,  we  have  tried  to  illustrate  some  key  processes 
447 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

of  metaphysics  by  use  of  the  optative  style,  in  this  case  the  style  of 
prayer.  Here  the  distinction  between  belief,  make-believe,  and  mock- 
belief  is  left  fluctuant. 

In  a  work  of  metaphysics,  there  is  some  term  that  has  a  "god- 
function."  That  is:  its  meaning  derives  from  its  role  as  a  summation 
of  all  the  other  terms.  In  this  technical  sense,  the  term  "dialectical 
materialism"  is  no  less  a  "god-function"  than  any  other  title  would 
be.  The  philosophy  of  dialectical  materialism  is  the  definition  of 
this  title,  i.  e.,  its  tautological  restatement.  Quite  as  the  events  in 
Flaubert's  novel,  Madame  Bovary,  are  the  narrative  definition  of 
the  novel's  title.  The  events  restate  explicitly  what  the  title  contains 
implicitly:  they  draw  out,  in  temporal  arpeggio,  all  that  is  struck 
simultaneously,  as  a  chord,  in  the  title  itself. 

Hail  to  Thee,  Logos, 
Thou  Vast  Almighty  Title, 
In  Whose  name  we  conjure — 
Our  acts  the  partial  representatives 
Of  Thy  whole  act. 

May  we  be  Thy  delegates 
In  parliament  assembled. 
Parts  of  Thy  wholeness. 
And  in  our  conflicts 
Correcting  one  another. 
By  study  of  our  errors 
Gaining  Revelation. 

May  we  give  true  voice 

To  the  statements  of  Thy  creatures. 

May  our  spoken  words  speak  for  them, 

With  accuracy, 

That  we  know  precisely  their  rejoinders 

To  our  utterances, 

And  so  may  correct  our  utterances 

In  the  light  of  those  rejoinders. 


448 


Thus  may  we  help  Thine  objects 
To  say  their  say — 


APPENDIX 

Not  suppressing  by  dictatorial  lie, 

Not  giving  false  reports 

That  misrepresent  their  saying. 

If  the  soil  is  carried  off  by  flood, 
May  we  help  the  soil  to  say  so. 
If  our  ways  of  living 
Violate  the  needs  of  nerve  and  muscle, 
May  we  find  speech  for  nerve  and  muscle, 
To  frame  objections 
Whereat  we,  listening, 
Can  remake  our  habits. 
"Tvlay  we  not  bear  false  witness  to  ourselves 
About  our  neighbors, 
Prophesying  falsely 
Why  they  did  as  they  did. 

May  we  compete  with  one  another, 
To  speak  for  Thy  Creation  with  more  justice- 
Cooperating  in  this  competition 
Until  our  naming 
Gives  voice  correctly. 
And  how  things  are 
And  how  we  say  things  are 
Are  one. 

Let  the  Word  be  dialectic  with  the  Way — 
Whichever  the  print 
The  other  the  imprint. 

Above  the  single  speeches 

Of  things, 

Of  animals, 

Of  people, 

Erecting  a  speech-of-speeches — 

And  above  this 

A  Speech-of-speech-of-speeches, 

And  so  on, 

Comprehensively, 

449 


PHILOSOPHY    OF    LITERARY    FORM 

Until  all  is  headed 

In  Thy  Vast  Almighty  Title, 

Containing  implicitly 

What  in  Thy  work  is  drawn  out  explicitly — 

In  its  plenitude. 

And  may  we  have  neither  the  mania  of  the  One 

Nor  the  delirium  of  the  Many — 

But  both  the  Union  and  the  Diversity — 

The  Title  and  the  manifold  details  that  arise 

As  that  Title  is  restated 

In  the  narrative  of  History. 

Not  forgetting  that  the  Title  represents  the  story's  Sequence, 

And  that  the  Sequence  represents  the  Power  entitled. 

For  us 

Thy  name  a  Great  Synecdoche, 

Thy  works  a  Grand  Tautology. 


450 


INDEX 


Adler,  Alfred,  266,  272  n. 

Aeschylus,  28,  47  n.,  59,   152,   153,   156, 

i57»  J58 
Aesop,  301 

Alice  in  Wonderland,  423 
American  Earth,  350,  359 
American  Language,  The,  13,  52,  300 
Analysis  of  Mind,  The,  441 
Anatomy  of  Literature,  An,  5 
"Ancient  Mariner,  The,"  22  f.,  25,  28, 

36>  53>  63.  71  ff->  75.  79.  94  ff-.  ioi,  1 18, 

279,  283  n.,  287  f. 
Andreyev,  438  ff. 
Aquinas,  263  n. 
Aragon,  Louis,  78 
Aristophanes,  2 

Aristotle,  113  n.,  116,  157,  320,  409 
Arnold,  Thurman,  125,  126,  128,  170  ft., 

397,  400-404 
Attitudes  Toward  History,  47  n.,  184  n., 

305 
Augustine,  262  n. 

Babbitt,  300 

Babbitt,  Irving,  79 

Bakunin,  406 

Barzun,  Jacques,  231 

Bates,  Ernest  Sutherland,  185  n. 

Baudelaire,  50,  253,  350 

Beethoven,  158 

Beggar's  Opera,  The,  423 

Belitt,  Ben,  311 

Bells  of  Basle,  The,  78 

Beloved  Returns,  The,  49  n. 

Bentham,  Jeremy,  11,  129,  168,  172,  176, 

400 
Bergson,  354,  409 
Between  the  Hammer  and  the  Anvil, 

69 

451 


Blackmur,  R.  P.,  10,  302 
Blake,  85 

Blume,  Peter,  276,  435-38 
Borgese,  Giuseppe,  88 
Botkin,  B.  A.,  87  n. 
Bread  and  Wine,  56 
Bridgman,  P.  W.,  141,  397,  3g8 
Brooke,  Rupert,  423 
Brooks,  Jr.,  Cleanth,  43 
Broun,  Heywood,  87  n. 
BurnshaAV,  Stanley,  432 
Burrow,  Trigant,  260 
Byron,  50 

Caldwell,  Erskine,  224,  350-60 

Carnap,  Rudolph,  5,  150 

Chase,  Stuart,  111  n.,  141,  396-99 

Chaucer,  83,  441 

Chesterton,  17 

Chevalier,  Haakon  M.,  418-21 

"Christabel,"  97,  98,  378 

Coleridge,  3,  9  f.,  15  f.,  21  ff.,  27,  48,  50, 
52.  54  f->  59.  63.  72  f->  75  f->  88,  92, 95  ff., 
101,  103,  129,  279,  282,  283  n.,  286  ff., 

369.  37 1.  375  f-.  378 
Company,  The,  69 
Conscience  Mystifiee,  La,  410 
Cooper,  Lane,  32,  95 
Corneille,  62 

Cowley,  Malcolm,  18,  235  ff. 
Crime  in  the  Whistler  Room,  The,  271 

Dante,  14 

Darwin,  414 

Dead  Reckoning,  433  f. 

Death  in  Venice,  47  n. 

Decameron,  63 

"Dejection:  An  Ode,"  97  £.,  283  n. 

De  Rerum  Natura,  152 


INDEX 


De  Vulgari  Eloquio,  14 

Dewey,  John,  55,  100  n.,  183  ft.,  315,  379, 

382-88,  388-91,  392 
Dickens,  322 
Donne,  31 

Dos  Passos,  John,  36,  126 
Dostoevsky,  50 
Dynamo,  42 

Eddington,  A.  S.,  386 

Elegy  in  a  Country  Churchyard,  422 

Eliot,  T.  S.,  36,  162,  422 

Emerson,  184  n. 

Emperor  Jones,  The,  362 

Empson,  William,  422-24,  424-26 

English  Pastoral  Poetry,  424-26.  See  also 

Some   Versions  of  Pastoral 
"Eolian   Harp,  The,"  72,  93  f.,  96,  98, 

279 

Essays  and  Soliloquies,  254 

Eumenides,  152  i. 

Examination  of  Logical  Positivism,  An, 

152  n. 
Experience  and  Nature,  388,  391 

Faery  Queen,  The,  422 

Farrell,  James  T.,  12,  430,  432 

Faulkner,  William,  117 

Fearing,  Kenneth,  433  f. 

"Fears  in  Solitude,"  378 

Finnegans  Wake,  43,  117 

First  World  War,  The,  235  f.,  244 

Flaubert,  17,  66  n.,  70,  253,  448 

Folklore  of  Capitalism,  The,  125,  170, 

i/2»  i89>  397-  40°-4°4 
France,  Anatole,  418-21 
Frazer,  Sir  J.  G.,  54  f.,  65,  411,  423 
Freud,  4,  56,  58,  117,  132,  213,  258-92, 

305.  311 
"Frost  at  Midnight,"  378 

Garden,  The,  423 

Gide,  Andre,  48,  50,  266,  350,  431 

God  Without  Thunder,  154 

God's  Little  Acre,  351  ff. 

Goethe,  48,  49  n.,  301 

Gold,  Michael,  234,  252 

452 


Golden  Bough,  The,  54,  411,  423 

Golden  Boy,  33,  35,  69,  139 

Gorki,  83  f.,  439  ff. 

Government  and  the  Arts,  221 

Grapes  of  Wrath,  The,  36  f.,  81,  84,  87  n. 

Gray,  422  f. 

Green  Pastures,  The,  361  f. 

Grosz,  George,  365 

Group  Psychology  and  the  Analysis  of 

the  Ego,  272  n. 
Guterman,  Norbert,  410 

Hairy  Ape,  The,  43,  52 

Hamlet,  46,  103  f.,  413 

Hanson,  Lawrence,  10  n. 

Hartmann,  von,  280 

Hawthorne,  53  n. 

Hazlitt,  9 

Hegel,  3,  77,  100,  251,  269,  406 

Hemingway,  Ernest,  46,  47,  47  n.,  352 

Hero,  The,  276,  411-13 

Hitler,  3,  27,  42,  69,  275,  191-220 

Hobbes,  169,  414,  417 

Hopkins,  Gerard  Manley,  10,  48,  52,  375 

Ideology  and  Utopia,  400,  404-407 
Iliad,  The,  239,  411 
In  Quest  of  Olympus,  276 
Ironic  Temper,  The,  418-21 

James,  Henry,  83  f.,  264,  419 

James,  William,  183,  185  n.,  379 

Jespersen,  13 

Johnson,  Edgar,  37 

Johnson,  Hall,  362 

Joseph  and  His  Brothers,  4g  n.,  427-29 

Journeyman,  352  ff. 

Joyce,  43  f.,  112,  117,  221,  233,  428 

Judgment  Day,  430 

Julius  Caesar,  329-43 

Jung,  C.  G.,  439  f. 

Kafka,  27 
Kapital,  Das,  323 
Keynes,  John  Maynard,  245 
Kierkegaard,  274  n. 


INDEX 


Kilpatrick,  443  ff. 

Kmg  Richard  II,  413 

Koehler,  W.,  396 

Koffka,  Kurt,  396 

Korzybski,  Count  Alfred,  2,  226  ft.,  301, 

397 
Krutch,  Joseph  Wood,  431  f. 
Kubie,  Lawrence  S.,  356 
"Kubla  Khan,"  97,  283  n.,  371 

Laski,  Harold,  397  f. 

Lautreamont,  350 

Lawrence,  D.  H.,  49,  352,  354 

Lefebvre,  410 

Le'gende  de  St.  Julien,  I  'Hospitaller ;  70 

Leibniz,  263  n.,  393 

Lenin,  51,  265 

Lerner,  Max,  104  n. 

Lessing,  63 

Lewis,  Sinclair,  102,  407 

Liberalism     and    Social    Action,     184, 

185  n.,  388-91 
Life  of  Man,  The,  441 
Life  of  S.  T.  Coleridge,  The  (Hanson), 

10  n. 
Lindsay,  R.  B.,  398 
Lippmann,  Walter,  326,  401 
Liszt,  119 
Locke,  John,  389 
Logic  (Dewey),  392 
Lowes,  John  Livingston,  22 
Lucretius,  152  f.,  158,  167 
Ludovici,  Anthony  M.,  414-18 
Lynd,  Robert  S.  and  Helen  M.,  102,  407- 

411 

Macbeth,  46 

Machiavelli,  169,  211,  211  n. 

MacLeish,  Archibald,  234  ff.,  275 

Madame  Bovary,  300,  448 

Magic  Mountain,  The,  241 

Maisel,  4 

Malamud,  438  ff. 

Malinowski,  111,  272,  396  f. 

Mallarm6,  159 

Malraux,  Andre,  46 

Mandeville,  Bernard,  169 

453 


Mann,  Thomas,   17,  47  n.,  48  f.,  49  n., 

156,  241,  427-29.  439 
Mannheim,  Karl,  129,  400,  404-407 
Man's  Fate,  46 
Marco  Millions,  43 
Mario  and  the  Magician,  47  n. 
Marvell,  423 
Marx,  111,  129,  246,  269,  291,  305,  308, 

311,  328,  422 
Mead,  George  H.,  111,  112,  282,  379-82, 

444 

Meaning  of  Meaning,  The,  3 

Mein  Kampf,  69,  191-220 

Meister singer,  Die,  363 

Mencken,  H.  L.,  13,  52,  300,  407 

Middletown  in   Transition,  407-411 

Milton,  17,  50,  59  f.,  65 

Mind,  Self  and  Society,  381 

Moby  Dick,  24,  83,  88 

Modern  Man  in  the  Making,  394-96 

Moliere,  66  n. 

Mourning  Becomes  Electra,  43 

Movements  of   Thought  in   the  Nine- 
teenth Century,  381 

Murder  in  the  Cathedral,  78 

Nathan,  George  Jean,  407 
Neurath,  Otto,  394-96 
Newton,  159,  409 
Nietzsche,  255 
Night  Rider,  79,  84-86 
Nordau,  Max,  18 

"Ode  to  the  Departing  Year,"  97  f. 
Odets,  Clifford,  33,  35,  69,  139,  429-32 
Of  Mice  and  Men,  81 
Ogburn,  William  F.,  440 
Ogden,  C.  K.,  3,  397 
O'Neill,  Eugene,  42  f.,  362 
One  Mighty  Torrent,  37 
Othello,  77,  165 
Overmeyer,  Grace,  221 
Oxford  Dictionary  of  English  Proverbs, 
The,  293 

Paget,  Sir  Richard,  12,  103  n. 
"Pains  of  Sleep,  The,"  97,  283  n. 


INDEX 


Paradise  Lost  (Odets),  35,  429-32 

Pavlov,  396 

Peirce,  C.  S.,  183,  379 

Pericles,  389 

Permanence  and  Change,  152  n. 

Persae,  The,  4711.,  157 

Philosophy  of  the  Act,  The,  381 

Philosophy  of  the  Unconscious,  280 

Plato,  107,  157 

Poe,  50,  118,  161,  166,  350 

Poetics  (Aristotle),  116,  157 

Poetry  and  Anarchism,  221 

Pope,  37  f.,  265 

Prince,  Morton,  200 

Prince,  The,  211  n. 

Principia  Mathematica,  150,  397 

Principles  of  Literary  Criticism,  422 

Prometheus,  59 

Proust,  17 

Pygmalion,  112 

Quest  for  Certainty,  The,   100  n.,   184, 
383-88,  391 

Race  Theories,  231 

Raglan,  Lord,  276,  411-13 

Rank,  Otto,  38,  266 

Ransom,  John  Crowe,  5,  19,  31,  116,  154 

Read,  Herbert,  221-32 

Reality,  392-94 

"Religious  Musings,"  97,  99 

Remorse,  29,  53,  97 

Renan,  419 

Rhetoric  (Aristotle),  157 

Richards,  I.  A.,  3,  6,  9,  397,  422,  424 

Rimbaud,  50,  348,  350 

Roberts,  Elizabeth  Madox,  87  n. 

Run,  Little  Chillun!,  361-68 

Russell,  Bertrand,  55,  150,  441 

Sacred  Wood,  The,  422 
Samson  Agonistes,  65 
Scarlet  Letter,  The,  53  n. 
Schapiro,  Meyer,  437 
Schlauch,  Margaret,  305 
Schoenberg,  373  n. 

454 


Schopenhauer,  263  n.,  280,  393,  417 

Schumann,  51  n. 

Science  and  Sanity,  226 

Seaver,  Edwin,  69 

Secret  of  Laughter,  The,  414-18 

Seven  Types  of  Ambiguity ,  422,  425 

Shakespeare,  30  f.,  63,  152,  165,  309,  330, 

337,  342,  413 
Shakespeare's  Imagery,  32,  70,  422 
Shaw,  Bernard,  112 
Shelley,  291 
Sherrington,  C.  S.,  255 
Silone,  Ignazio,  56 
Smith,  Adam,  169,  381 
Socrates,  2,  157 
Some   Versions  of  Pastoral,  422-24.  See 

also  English  Pastoral  Poetry 
Spengler,  301 
Spenser,  422 

Spinoza,  7,  ii4n.,  166,  263  n. 
Spurgeon,  Caroline,  32,  70,  422 
Stallings,  Laurence,  235  f. 
Stein,  Gertrude,  221,  233 
Steinbeck,  John,  36,  81,  90,  90  n.,  126 
Stekel,  Wilhelm,  265  f. 
Stendhal,  50 
Strachey,  Lytton,  168 
Sullivan,  Mark,  401 
Swift,  355,  423 
Symbols  of  Government,  The,  170,  185, 

397,  400 

Table  Talk  (Coleridge),  52,  72,  376 

Tacitus,  231 

Tempest,  The,  152 

Theory    of    Business   Enterprise,    Tlie, 

170,  316 
Thompson,  Dorothy,  401 
"Three  Graves,  The,"  95 
Time  of  Man,  The,  87  n. 
Tobacco  Road,  351,  355  ff.,  360 
Tonio  Kroger,  49  n. 
Totem  and  Taboo,  274,  274  n. 
"To  the  Autumnal  Moon,"  377 
Toynbee,  Arnold,  138 
Trotsky,  46 
Troy,  William,  49 


INDEX 

Twelfth  Night,  344-49  Watson,  J.  B.,  380,  396 

Tyranny  of  Words,  The,  141,  396-99  We  Are  the  Living,  359 

Weinberg,  Julius  Rudolph,  152  n. 
Unamuno,  Miguel  de,  254,  259  Weiss,  Paul,  392-94 

Whitehead,  Alfred  North,  150,  379 
Veblen,  Thorstein,   111,   170,  247,  257,       Whitman,  118,  316 

316  f.,  328,  381,  390,  400  Wilhelm  Meister,  83 

Vision  of  Piers  Plowman,  The,  422  Wilson,  Edmund,  246,  271  n. 

Winchell,  Walter,  13 
Wagner,  363  Woolf,  Virginia,  48  n. 

Warren,  Robert  Penn,  79,  84,  87  f.  Wordsworth,  9,  10,  22,  79,  282 

Wasteland,  The,  36  f.  World's  Body,  The,  5,  19,  31 


455 


DATE  DUE 

DUE         RETURNED         DUE         RETURNED 

Jt/f  2  2  It 

00  fl*44* 

n 

JMi«    0   3    f-U' 

DEC  2  0  W 

r»fi^ 

UNIVERSITY  OF  FLORIDA 


3    1262    05273    1097 


Withdrawn  irom  ur .  ouiveyeo  to  internet  Archive 


