THE  LIBRARY 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG  UNIVERSITY 

&QVQ,  UT4A 


y 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2011  with  funding  from 
Brigham  Young  University 


http://www.archive.org/details/pistissophiaOOmead 


^7- 


PISTIS    SOPHIA 

A  GNOSTIC  GOSPEL  (WITH  EXTKACTS  FEOM 
THE  BOOKS  OF  THE  SAVIOUR  APPENDED) 
OEIGINALLY  TKANSLATED  FROM  GREEK  INTO 
COPTIC  AND  NOW  FOR  THE  FIRST  TIME 
ENGLISHED  FROM  SCHWARTZE'S  LATIN  VER- 
SION OF  THE  ONLY  KNOWN  COPTIC  MS.  AND 
CHECKED  BY  AMELINEAU'S  FRENCH  VERSION 
WITH   AN   INTRODUCTION   BY   G.   R.    S.  MEAD 

B.A.  M.R.A.S. 


London 

The  Theosophical  Publishing  Society 

2,6  Charing  Cross,  S.W. 

New  Yoek:   The  Theosophical  Publishing  Society,  65  Fifth 

Avenue 

Benares:  The  Theosophical  Publishing  Society 
Madras:   "The  Theosophist"  Office,  Adyar 

1896 


ABERDEEN   UNIVERSITY  PRESS 


THE  LIBRARY 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG  UNIVERSITY 

PROVO.  UTAH 


TABLE    OF    SUMMARIES. 


INTRODUCTION. 

The  documents  and  general  literature  of  Gnosticism 
The  method  of  the  best  Gnostic  doctors    . 
Description  and  criticism  of  the  MS. 
General  analysis  of  contents      .... 
The  date  and  authorship  of  the  Greek  original 

The  Books  of  the  Saviour 

The  probable  history  of  the  treatise  . 

The  translator's  apologia  ..... 

The  work  that  has  been  previously  done  . 


PAGE 

xvii 

xxiii 

xxv 

xxix 

xxx 

xxxi 

xxxiii 

xxxv 

xxxvi 


THE  FIRST  BOOK  OF  PISTIS  SOPHIA. 

Jesus  hitherto  instructeth  his  disciples  only  up  to  the  region 

of  the  first  mystery 
What  the  first  mystery  surroundeth 
The  regions  of  the  great  invisible 
The  treasure  of  light  .... 

The  light-world 

Jesus  and  his  disciples  are  seated  on  the  Mount  of  Olives 
A  great  light-stream  descendeth  on  Jesus 
It  surroundeth  him  entirely       ..... 
Jesus  ascendeth  into  heaven      ..... 
The  confusion  of  the  powers  and  the  great  earthquake 

The  dismay  of  the  disciples 

Jesus  descendeth  again 

The  nature  of  his  glory 

Jesus  addresseth  them 

He  draweth  his  light  unto  himself    .... 

He  promiseth  to  tell  them  all  things 

How  the  vesture  of  light  was  sent  unto  him 

Of  the  souls  of  the  disciples  and  their  incarnation   . 

Of  the  incarnation  of  John  the  Baptist     . 

That  John  was  Elias  in  a  former  birth 


8 

9 

10 
11 
12 


IV 


CONTENTS. 


had 


and 


Of  his  own  incarnation  through  Mary 

More  concerning  the  light-powers  in  the  disciples 

Why  they  should  rejoice  that  the  time  of  his  investiture 

come 

The  mystery  of  the  five  words  on  the  vesture 

The  interpretation  thereof 

The  three  robes  of  light      .... 

The  first  vesture 

The  second  vesture     ..... 

The  third  vesture        ..... 

The  day  of  "  Come  unto  us  "      . 

Jesus  putteth  on  his  vesture 

He  entereth  the  firmament 

The  powers  of  the  firmament  are  amazed  and  fall  down 

worship  him 

He  entereth  the  first  sphere 

The  powers  of  the  first  sphere  are  amazed  and  fall  down  and 

worship  him         ..... 
He  entereth  the  second  sphere 
The  powers  of  the  second  sphere  are  amazed  and  fall 

and  worship  him  .... 

He  entereth  the  aeons  .... 

The  powers  of  the  seons  are  amazed  and  fall  down  and 

ship  him 

Adamas  and  the  tyrants  fight  against  the  light 

He  taketh  from  them  a  third  of  their  power 

He  changeth  the  motion  of  their  spheres 

Mary  asketh  and  receiveth  permission  to  speak 

Mary  interpreteth  the  above  from  the  words  of  Isaiah 

Jesus  commendeth  Mary.     She  further  questioneth  him  on 

the  changing  of  the  spheres         .... 
Jesus  explaineth  further  the  conversion  of  the  spheres 
Philip  questioneth  Jesus    .... 
Why  the  path  of  the  seons  was  changed    . 
Mary  questioneth  him  again 
The  coming  of  Melchisedec 
Of  the  fabrication  of  the  souls  of  men 
The  rulers  devour  their  matter  so  that  souls  may  not  be  fabri 

cated    

Adamas  and  the  tyrants  battle  against  the  light-vesture 
Jesus  taketh  from  them  a  third  of  their  power  and  changeth 

their  course  ........ 

They  no  more  have  the  power  of  devouring  their  matter 
The  powers  adore  the  light-vesture   .... 


down 


wor 


PAGE 

13 


14 
15 
16 

17 


18 
19 


20 


21 


22 


23 

24 

25 
26 

28 
29 
31 
32 
33 
34 


36 

37 

38 
39 
40 


CONTENTS.  V 

PAGE 

The  tyrants  become  as  the  dead         ......  41 

Jesus  entereth  the  thirteenth  aeon  and  findeth  Pistis  Sophia  42 

Sophia  and  her  fellow-powers  behold  the  light 

Mary  desireth  to  hear  the  story  of  Sophia          ....  43 

The  rulers  hate  her  for  ceasing  in  their  mystery       ...  44 
Arrogant  uniteth  himself  with  the  rulers  of  the  twelve  aeons 

and  emanateth  a  lion-faced  power  to  plague  Sophia  .         .  45 
Sophia  taketh  the  lion-faced  power  of  Arrogant  for  the  true 

light 46 

She  descendeth  to  the  twelve  aeons  and  thence  into  chaos 
The  emanations  of  Arrogant  squeeze  the  light-powers  out  of 

Sophia 47 

The  first  repentence  of  Sophia 

Mary  interpreteth  the  first  repentance  from  Psalm  lxviii.        .  52 

The  second  repentance  of  Sophia       ......  55 

Peter  complaineth  of  Mary 57 

Peter  interpreteth  the  second  repentance  from  Psalm  lxx.       .  58 

Jesus  promiseth  to  perfect  the  disciples  in  all  things       .         .  59 

The  third  repentance  of  Sophia 60 

Martha  asketh  and  receiveth  permission  to  speak    . 

Martha  interpreteth  the  third  repentance  from  Psalm  lxix.     .  61 

The  fourth  repentance  of  Sophia 62 

John  asketh  and  receiveth  permission  to  speak        ...  64 

John  interpreteth  the  repentance'from  Psalm  ci.               .         .  65 

Jesus  commendeth  John     ........  66 

The  emanations  of  Arrogant  again  squeeze  the  light  out  of 

Sophia 67 

The  fifth  repentance  of  Sophia 

Philip,  the  scribe,  complaineth 69 

Jesus  explaineth  that  the  appointed  scribes  are  Philip  and 

Thomas  and  Matthew 70 

Mary  interpreteth  the  words  of  Jesus   concerning  the  three 

witnesses      .......... 

Philip  is  now  given  permission  to  speak 71 

Philip  interpreteth  the  fifth  repentance  from  Psalm  xlvii.       .  72 

Philip  is  commended  and  continueth  writing  ....  73 

The  sixth  repentance  of  Sophia 74 

Andrew  interpreteth  the  sixth  repentance  from  Psalm  cxxix.  .  75 
Jesus  commendeth  Andrew.     He  promiseth  that  the  tyrants 

shall  be  judged  and  consumed  by  the  fire  of  wisdom 

Mary  interpreteth  the  words  of  Jesus        .....  76 
The  repentance  of  Sophia  is  not  yet  accepted.     She  is  mocked 

by  the  aeons 77 

The  seventh  repentance  of  Sophia     ......  78 


is  sent  to  help 


VI  CONTENTS. 

Thomas    interpreteth   the   seventh  repentance    from   Psalm 

xxiv.    ....... 

Jesus  commendeth  Thomas 

Jesus  leadeth  Sophia  to  a  less  confined  region,  but  without 

the  command  of  the  first  mystery 
The  emanations  of  Arrogant  cease  for  a   time  to  constrain 

Sophia . 

The  eighth  repentance  of  Sophia       .... 

The  emanations  of  Arrogant  constrain  her  again 

She  continueth  her  repentance  ..... 

Matthew  interpreteth  the  repentance  from  Psalm  xxx. 

Jesus  commendeth  Matthew,  and  promiseth  his  disciples  that 

they  shall  sit  on  thrones  with  him 
Mary  interpreteth  the  words  of  Jesus 
The  ninth  repentance  of  Sophia         .... 
James  interpreteth  the  repentance  from  Psalm  xxxiv 
Jesus  commendeth  James,  and  promiseth  the  first  place  unto 

the  disciples         ..... 
Mary  interpreteth  the  words  of  Jesus 
The  repentance  of  Sophia  is  accepted.      Jesus 

her       ....... 

The  tenth  repentance  of  Sophia 

Peter  interpreteth  the  repentance  from  Psalm 

Jesus  commendeth  Peter  .... 

The  eleventh  repentance  of  Sophia    . 

Arrogant  aideth  his   emanations,  and  they  again  constrain 

Sophia 

The  twelfth  repentance  of  Sophia 

Andrew  interpreteth  the  repentance  from  Psalm  cviii. 

The  thirteenth  repentance  of  Sophia 

Martha  interpreteth  the  repentance  from  Psalm  1.  . 

Jesus  sendeth  forth  a  light-power  to  aid  Sophia 

Sophia  uttereth  a  song  of  praise        .... 

Salome   interpreteth   the   song   of  Sophia  from  the  Odes  of 

Solomon      ......... 

The  power  sent  by  Jesus  formeth  a  crown  of  light  on  Sophia' 

head 

Sophia  uttereth  another  song  of  praise      .... 
Mary,  the  mother,  asketh  and  receiveth  permission  to  speak 
Mary,  the  mother,  interpreteth  the  song  of  Sophia  from  the 

nineteenth  Ode  of  Solomon 
Jesus  commendeth  his  mother  . 
The  statute  of  the  first  mystery  is  fulfilled  for  taking  Sophia 

entirely  out  of  chaos 


cxix. 


PAGE 

80 
82 


83 

84 
85 

87 

88 
89 

93 

95 
96 


98 
99 

102 
103 
105 

108 
109 

110 
112 


113 

114 

115 


CONTENTS.  Vll 


PAGE 
116 


The  first  mystery  and  Jesus  send  forth  two  streams  of  light 
powers  to  help  Sophia         ..... 

Mary  interpreteth  the  mystery  ..... 

Mary,  the  mother,  further  interpreteth  the  scripture        .         .     118 

The  story  of  the  phantom  spirit  .... 

Of  the  spiritual  and  material  bodies  of  Jesus    ....     119 

The  other  Mary  further  interpreteth  the  same  scripture  from 

the  baptism  of  Jesus   ........     121 

Mary,  the  mother,  again  further  interpreteth  the  same 
scripture  from  the  meeting  of  herself  with  Elizabeth, 
mother  of  John  the  Baptist 122 

Of  the  incarnation  of  Jesus 

THE  NOTE  OF  A  SCRIBE. 
A  note  by  a  later  hand 123 

THE  SECOND  BOOK  OF  PISTIS  SOPHIA. 

John  further  explaineth  the  same  scripture      ....  125 

Of  Sabaoth,  Barbelo,  Iabraoth  and  the  light-vesture         .        .  126 

Gabriel  and  Michael  are  summoned  to  help  Pistis  Sophia       .  127 

The  light-stream  restoreth  the  light-powers  into  Sophia  .         .  128 
The  light-stream,  having  accomplished  its  purpose,  departeth 

from  Sophia 129 

Peter  interpreteth  the  narrative  from  the  Odes  of  Solomon     .  130 

The  emanations  of  Arrogant  cry  aloud  to  him  for  help     .         .  134 
He   sendeth  forth  another  more  violent  power,  like  unto  a 

winged  arrow 135 

The  creation  of  the  serpent,  basilisk  and  dragon  powers  . 

The  dsemonial  power  of  Adamas  dasheth  Sophia  to  the  ground  136 

Sophia  again  crieth  to  the  light 137 

Gabriel  and  Michael  and  the  light-stream  again  go  to  her  aid  . 

The  transfiguration  of  Sophia 138 

Jesus,  the  first  mystery,  looking  without,  causeth  Sophia  to 

triumph 139 

James  interpreteth  the  narrative  from  Psalm  xc.     .        .         .  140 

Sophia  singeth  a  song  of  praise 147 

Thomas  interpreteth  the  song  of  Sophia  from  the  Odes  of 

Solomon 149 

Sophia  singeth  another  song  of  praise 153 

Matthew  interpreteth  the  song  of  Sophia  from  the  Odes  of 

Solomon 155 

Sophia  continueth  to  sing 160 


Vlll 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

Mary  is  afraid  of  Peter       ........  160 

Mary  interpreteth  the  song  of  Sophia  from  the  Psalms     .         .  161 

Sophia  continueth  her  song 162 

Martha  interpreteth  from  the  Psalms        ..... 
Sophia  continueth  her  song       ....... 

Mary  interpreteth  from  the  Psalms 163 

Sophia  is  led  to  a  region  below  the  thirteenth  aeon  and  given 

a  new  mystery    .........  164 

She  continueth  her  song 

Andrew  interpreteth  from  the  Psalms 165 

The  conversation  of  Sophia  and  the  Light        ....  166 

The  Light  promiseth  to  seal  the  regions  of  Arrogant        .         .  167 
How  Sophia  shall  know  that  the  time  of  her  final  deliverance 

hath  come 

What  shall  come  to  pass  at  that  time 168 

The  time  for  the  final  deliverance  of  Sophia  is  fulfilled    .         .  169 
Adamas  sendeth  forth  two  emanations  of  darkness  to  plague 

Sophia 170 

Sophia  again  singeth  a  song  to  the  Light          ....  171 

James  interpreteth  the  song  from  Psalm  vii 173 

Sophia  addresseth  Adamas  and  his  rulers          ....  174 

Sophia  yet  again  singeth  to  the  Light 175 

Martha  interpreteth  the  words  of  Sophia  from  Psalm  vii.         .  176 
Jesus  bringeth  Sophia  again  to  the  thirteenth  aeon  . 

Sophia  singeth  the  praises  of  the  Light  to  her  fellow-invisibles  177 

Philip  interpreteth  the  song  from  Psalm  cvi.    ....  180 

Mary  questioneth  Jesus 182 

Of  the  four  and  twenty  invisibles       ......  184 

Of  the  twelve  aeons 186 

Of  the  thirteenth  aeon         ........ 

Of  the  midst 187 

Of  the  right 

Of  the  treasure   

Of  the  inheritance 188 

Mary  again  questioneth  Jesus 189 

Of  the  twelve  saviours  and  their  regions  in  the  inheritance     .  190 

Of  the  ascension  of  them  of  the  treasure  into  the  inheritance .  192 

Of  their  respective  ranks  in  the  kingdom 193 

Of  the  powers  of  the  light  and  their  emanation  and  ascension 

Of  the  powers  of  the  midst  and  their  ascension         .         .         .  194 

But  this  shall  not  take  place  till  the  end  of  the  aeon        .        .  195 

Of  the  ascension  of  the  souls  of  the  perfect       ....  196 

Of  the  rank  of  the  souls  of  the  perfect 197 

Mary  interpreteth  the  narrative  from  the  Scriptures         .         .  198 


CONTENTS.  IX 

PAGE 

Of  the  last  supporter 199 

That  the  region  beyond  the  supporters  is  indescribable    .         .  200 

Mary  further  questioneth  Jesus 201 

Of  the  second  supporter 

Of  the  third,  fourth,  and  fifth  supporters 202 

Mary  again  questioneth  Jesus    ....... 

Of  them  that  receive  the  mystery  in  the  last  supporter    .         .  203 

John  questioneth  Jesus 204 

Of  the  first  statute 

Of  the  first  space 205 

Of  the  second  space 

Of  the  third  space       ......... 

Of  the  tri-spirituals  in  the  third  space,  i.e.,  the  first  space  of 

the  ineffable 206 

Of  the  absolute  mystery 

Of  the  gnosis  of  the  absolute  mystery 207 

The  gnosis  of  the  mystery  of  the  ineffable  continued        .         .  210 

Of  the  hierarchies  of  powers 212 

The  disciples  lose  courage           .......  215 

Jesus  explaineth  that  that  mystery  is  really  simpler  than  all 

mysteries 216 

Of  the  fission  and  emanation  of  the  powers  of  the  pleroma      .  218 
Of  them  of  the  second  space  of  the  ineffable     .... 

Of  them  of  the  first  space  of  the  ineffable          ....  221 

Jesus  promiseth  to  explain  further  all  in  detail        .         .         .  223 
Of  the  mystery  succinctly  ........ 

Of  the  one  and  only  word  of  the  ineffable          ....  224 

Of  the  ascension  of  the  soul  of  him  who  shall  receive  the  abso- 
lute mystery 225 

Of  the  rank  of  such  a  soul 226 

Such  souls  are  "  christs,"  and  shall  be  kings  in  the  kingdom  228 
Of  the  dignity  of  the  thrones  in  the  kingdom   ....  229 
Of  the  gnosis  of  the  word  of  the  ineffable          ....  230 
Of  the  distinction  between  the  absolute  gnosis  and  the  mys- 
teries of  light 231 

Of  the  ascension  of  the  souls  of  them  that  receive  the  twelve 

mysteries  of  the  first  mystery 233 

Mary  questioneth  Jesus 235 

Of  the  three  mysteries  and  five  mysteries  .... 

Of  the  first  of  the  three  mysteries 236 

Of  the  second  of  the  three  mysteries  ..... 

Of  its  efficacy  with  regard  to  the  uninitiated  ....  237 

Of  the  third  of  the  three  mysteries    ......  238 

Of  its  efficacy  with  regard  to  the  uninitiated     ....  239 


X  CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Further  concerning  the  three  and  five  mysteries       .         .         .  239 

Of  the  one  and  only  mystery     .......  240 

Of  the  mysteries  of  the  second  space 241 

Of  the  mystery  of  the  third  space,  the  first  from  without 

Of  the  reign  of  a  thousand  years  of  light  .....  242 

What  is  a  year  of  the  light 

Of  them  of  the  first  space  in  the  kingdom  of  the   thousand 

years 243 

Of  them  of  the  second  space 244 

Of  them  of  the  third  space,  the  first  from  without    . 

Of  the  Books  of  Ieou 245 

Andrew  questioneth  Jesus 246 

That  all  men  are  potentially  all  powers 247 

As  to  how  men  differ  from  the  powers 

"  -    Of  the  purifying  mysteries 248 

That  all  who  are  purified  shall  be  saved 250 

That  finally  they  shall  be  higher  than  all  powers     . 

Jesus  pardoneth  the  ignorance  of  Andrew          ....  251 

EXTRACT  FROM  THE  BOOKS  OF  THE  SAVIOUR. 

Of  the  members  of  the  ineffable         ......     252 

Jesus  the  great  initiator  is  all  the  mysteries      .... 

Of  the  dignity  of  them  who  are  initiated  into  the  mysteries     .     253 


THE  SECOND  BOOK  OF  PISTIS  SOPHIA  (Continued). 


254 


Of  the  preaching  of  the  disciples        ..... 

What  men  should  avoid 

What  men  should  practise 

Unto  such  the  mysteries  of  light  are  to  be  given 
The  mysteries  are  for  the  remission  of  sins 

Mary  again  questioneth  Jesus 

Of  the  soul  of  the  righteous  man  who  is  not  initiated  when  it 

passeth  from  the  body         ...... 

John  questioneth  Jesus 

Of  the  initiated  who  sinneth  and  repenteth  until  seven  times    265 
A  former  saying  explained  ...... 

Of  the  reward  of  the  savers  of  souls 

John  continueth  his  questioning        ..... 
That  the  mysteries  shall  be  given  unto  a  repentant  brother 

even  up  to  the  three  of  the  second  space    . 
The  limit  of  the  power  of  the  disciples  to  remit  sins 
A  former  saying  explained 


259 
260 
261 


263 


266 


268 


CONTENTS.  XI 

PAGE 

Of  the  absolute  mystery  of  the  remission  of  sins       .         .         .  269 
John  continueth  his  questioning        ...... 

The  teaching  with  regard  to  sinners  who  receive  the  mysteries 

further  extended 270 

John  continueth  his  questioning 272 

Of  hypocrites  who  receive  the  mysteries 273 

A  former  saying  explained 274 

Mary  again  questioneth  Jesus 275 

How  the  souls  of  them  that  have  passed  from  the  body  may 

be  helped  by  those  on  earth 276 

Mary  continueth  her  questioning 277 

How  an  initiate  can  escape  from  the  death  of  the  body  with- 
out pain 

Mary  continueth  her  questioning 279 

The  mystery  of  the  resurrection  of  the  dead     .... 

The  disciples  became  frenzied  at  the  sublimity  of  the  teaching  280 
How  the  disciples  shall  preach           ...... 

What  mysteries  they  shall  give 281 

The  mystery  of  the  resurrection  not  to  be  given  to  any    . 

Of  the  constitution  of  man 282 

Of  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit 283 

The  state  of  the  sinful  soul  after  death 284 

How  a  sinful  soul  is  brought  back  to  rebirth     ....  285 
Of  the  glorious  ascension  after  death  of  the  righteous  soul 

that  hath  received  the  mysteries 286 

Of  the  state  after  death  of  one  that  hath  received  the  mysteries 

and  yet  hath  transgressed  .......  288 

The  apology  of  the  rulers  of  the  midst 290 

The  apology  of  the  rulers  of  the  fate 

Of  the  ascension  of  that  soul  into  the  inheritance    .         .         .  291 

Mary  interpreteth  the  teaching  from  former  sayings        .         .  292 

The  piece  of  money  that  was  brought  unto  Jesus     .         .         .  293 

A  saying  of  Paul 294 

The  foes  of  one's  own  house       ....... 

A  saying  concerning  rebirth 295 

Mary  continueth  to  question  Jesus 297 

Of  the  workmen  of  wrath 298 

How  the  soul  of  the  sinner  is  stamped  with  its  sins          .         .  299 

How  the  baptisms  purify  sins 

The  separation  of  the  "  principles  "  by  the  mystery  of  baptism  300 
Mary  interpreteth  the  same  from  a  former  saying    . 

Mary  further  questioneth  Jesus 302 

Of  the  remission  of  sins  according  to  the  mysteries 

Mary  interpreteth  the  same  from  the  Psalms  ....  303 


Xll 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

Of  the  forgiveness  even  unto  twelve  times  of  them  who  have 

received  the  mystery  of  the  first  mystery  ....  304 
Of  such  initiated  who  die  without  repentance  ....  305 
Of  the  unending  forgiveness  of  them  that  have  received  the 

mystery  of  the  ineffable 306 

Of  such  initiated  who  die  without  repentance  ....     307 
Mary  interpreteth  the  same  from  a  former  saying     . 
Of  the  absolute  compassion  of  the  absolute  mystery  .         .     309 

That  the  initiated  are  watched  over  in  passing  from  the  body 
Mary  interpreteth  the  same  from  a  former  saying    .         .         .     310 
If  even  men  on  earth  are  compassionate,  how  much  more  then 

the  highest  mystery 311 

Jesus  trieth  Peter 312 

Mary  interpreteth  the  incident  from  a  former  saying        .         .313 
In  the  case  of  repentance  only  higher  mysteries  than  those 

previously  received  can  remit  sins  .....  314 
There  is  no  limit  to  the  number  of  mysteries  the  faithful  may 

receive 315 

The  fate  of  the  initiated  who  sinneth  is  more  terrible  than  that 

of  the  ignorant  sinner  .......     316 

Mary  interpreteth  the  same  from  a  former  saying    . 

Of  them  who  procrastinate,  saying  they  have  many  births 

before  them 317 

They  who  procrastinate  are  excluded  from  the  light         .         .     318 
Their  entreaties  at  the  gates  of  light  ..... 

Mary  interpreteth  the  same 319 

Of  the  dragon  of  outer  darkness 320 

Of  the  rulers  of  the  twelve  dungeons  and  their  names 

Of  the  doors  of  the  dungeons 322 

The  angels  that  watch  at  the  doors 

What  souls  pass  into  the  dragon,  and  how        .... 

The  nature  of  the  names  of  the  dragons 323 

Of  the  severity  of  the  torments  of  the  dragon   ....     324 
Of  the  various  degrees  of  the  fires  of  the  torments    . 

The  disciples  bewail  the  fate  of  sinners 325 

Mary  further  questioneth  Jesus  ...... 

How  to  save  the  souls  of  the  uninitiated  after  death         .         .     326 
How  the   mystery  will  even  save   them  that  have  no  more 

chance  of  rebirth 327 

Of  the  light-streams 329 

Mary  pleadeth  for  them  who  have  neglected  the  mysteries      .     330 
Of  the  efficacy  of  the  names  of  the  twelve  rulers  of  the  dun- 
geons     332 

The  souls  who  know  the  names  escape  from  the  dragons  and 

are  taken  to  Ieou .     333 


CONTENTS. 


Xlll 


Of  their  subsequent  fate     ...... 

Mary  interpreteth  the  same  from  a  former  saying    . 

Of  the  light  of  the  sun  and  the  darkness  of  the  dragon 

Of  the  rulers  of  the  fate  and  the  draught  of  oblivion 

The  meaning  of  the  term  "  counterfeit  of  the  spirit  " 

Of  the  fashioning  of  a  new  soul 

Of  the  inbreathing  of  the  power 

Jesus  promiseth  to  reveal  all  in  detail 

The  teaching   as  to  the   light-power  and   counterfeit    of  the 

spirit  summarised        .... 
Who  are  the  "  parents  "  we  are  to  abandon 
Salome  is  in  doubt  as  to  the  matter  . 
Mary  removeth  the  doubt  of  Salome 
Of  the  charge  given  unto  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit 
Of  the  charge  given  unto  the  builders 
Of  the  embryonic  stages  of  incarnation 
Of  the  karmic  compulsion  of  the  parents 
The  occult  process  of  gestation  . 
Of  the  incarnation  of  the  "  principles  " 
Occult  physiognomy  . 
Of  the  nature  of  the  destiny 
Of  how  a  man  cometh  by  his  death 
There  is  no  escape  from  destiny 
Of  the  nature  of  the  mysteries  . 
The  mysteries  are  for  all  men     . 
A  prophecy  of  John  the  Baptist 
The  criterion  of  orthodoxy 
The  Books  of  Ieou 

-  Few  only  will  really  comprehend  the  mysteries 
No  soul  had  entered  into  the  light  before  the  coming  of  the 

first  mystery        ...... 

None  of  the  prophets  had  been  initiated   . 

The  patriarchs  have  not  yet  entered  into  the  light 

Of  the  souls  of  the  righteous  from  Adam  to  Jesus 

The    disciples   know   of   a   surety  that  Jesus  is  the  Great 

Initiator 


PAGE 

334 
335 


336 
337 

338 
339 

340 
341 

342 
343 
344 
345 
346 

347 

349 

350 

351 
352 
353 

354 

355 
356 


357 


EXTRACT  FROM  THE  BOOKS  OF  THE  SAVIOUR. 

The  disciples  ask  a  boon  of  Jesus 358 

The  prayer  of  Jesus 

The  grouping  of  the  disciples 

The  interpretation  of  the  word  iad 359 

He  prayeth  for  a  boon  to  be  given  to  his  disciples     . 


XIV 


CONTENTS. 


He  commandeth  the  veils  of  the  heavens  to  be  withdrawn 

The  figure  of  the  disk  of  the  sun         .... 

The  figure  of  the  disk  of  the  moon     .... 

Jesus  and  the  disciples  are  transported  to  the  ways  of  the 

midst 

Of  the  repentant  and  unrepentant  rulers  . 

Of  the  hierarchies  of  the  rulers  and  the  names  of  their  five 

regents         ........ 

Of  the  powers  that  Ieou  infused  into  the  five  regents 

Of  the  functions  of  Zeus,  the  chief  regent 

The  mystery  names  of  the  regents     .... 

Mary  questioneth  Jesus  on  the  ways  of  the  midst     . 
Of  the  mysteries  which  Jesus  will  give  unto  his  disciples 
Of  the  constitution  of  the  ways  of  the  midst     . 
Of  the  regent  of  the  first  dsernonial  hierarchy  . 

Of  Ieou  and  Melchisedec 

How  the  daemonial  rulers  carry  off  souls  . 

The  length  of  their  torments 

Of  the  time  when  souls  are  freed  from  the  torments  of  their 

rulers   

The  regent  of  the  second  daemonial  hierarchy   . 

The  length  of  their  torments 

Of  the  time  when  souls  are  freed  from  their  torments 
The  regent  of  the  third  dsernonial  hierarchy 

The  length  of  their  torments 

Of  the  time  when  souls  are  freed  from  their  torments 
The  regent  of  the  fourth  dsernonial  hierarchy  . 

The  length  of  their  torments 

Of  the  time  when  souls  are  freed  from  their  torments 
The  regent  of  the  fifth  dsernonial  hierarchy 

The  length  of  their  torments 

Of  the  time  when  souls  are  freed  from  their  torments 
The  disciples  beseech  Jesus  to  have  mercy  upon  sinners 
Jesus  encourageth  his  disciples  .... 

Jesus  and  his  disciples  ascend  higher 

He  breatheth  on  their  eyes 

Their  eyes  are  opened         ...... 

Jesus  explaineth  the  vision  of  fire  and  water,  and  wine  and 

blood 

The  same  further  explained  from  former  sayings 

Jesus  and  his  disciples  descend  to  the  earth 

Jesus  prorniseth  to  give  them  the  mystery  of  remission 

The  mystic  sacrament 

The  sacramental  invocation 


PAGE 

359 
360 


361 
362 

363 

364 
365 

366 

367 


368 
369 

370 

371 

372 
373 
374 

375 

376 
377 

378 


CONTENTS.  XV 


The  rite  is  consummated    ....... 

Directions  as  to  the  future  use  of  the  rite 

Of  three  other  great  rites    ....... 

Of  the  highest  of  all  mysteries  and  of  the  great  name 

Of  the  efficacy  of  that  name 

The  punishment  of  him  that  curseth         .... 
Of  the  punishment  of  the  slanderer  .... 

The  punishment  of  the  murderer 

Peter  protesteth  against  the  women  .... 

The  punishment  of  the  contemptuous        .... 

The"ipunishment  of  the  blasphemer 

The  punishment  of  him  that  hath  intercourse  with  males 
The  punishment  of  a  foul  act  of  sorcery    .... 

Of  the  after-death  state  of  the  righteous   .... 

The  cup  of  wisdom     ........ 

A  man  suffereth  for  each  separate  sin        .... 

Even  the  greatest  of  sinners,  if  he  repent,  shall  inherit  the 

kingdom 

Of  the  time  favourable  for  the  birth  of  them  who  shall  find 

the  mysteries 

The  disciples  beseech  Jesus  to  have  mercy  upon  them 
The  preaching  of  the  disciples 


PAGE 

379 
380 


381 
382 
383 
385 
386 
387 
389 

390 
391 
392 


393 


394 


INTRODUCTION. 

It    is  with  somewhat   of  the  feelings  of  one  setting  forth 
on    a   forlorn    hope    that  the  writer  ventures  to  ~,     , 
plunge    into    the    chaos   of    syncretism    generally  menta 

classified     under     the    vague    term     Gnosticism.  a         , 

°  t  t  general 

Indeed  no  subject  connected  with  the  history  literature 
of  religion  is  fraught  with  greater  difficulty,  as  .  Gnostl' 
may  be  seen  from  the  comparative  paucity  of 
general  works  on  Gnosticism  from  the  pens  of  European 
scholars.  In  fact  the  English  reader,  outside  of  a  few 
translations,  must  content  himself  with  Burton's  Bampton 
Lectures,  Mansel's  Gnostic  Heresies,  Norton's  History  of  the 
Gnostics,  King's  Gnostics  and  their  Remains,  and  an  article 
by  Salmon. 

Not  only  did  the  persecution  of  the  early  Gnostics  cause 
the  loss  of  nearly  all  their  documents,  but  also  some  of  the 
most  important  writings  of  the  Fathers,  which  might  have 
thrown  more  light  on  the  subject,  have  disappeared  ;  among 
these  may  be  mentioned  the  Syntagma  of  Justin,  and  the 
Syntagma  of  Hippolytus. 

Our  chief  authorities  among  the  Fathers  are  Justin  Martyr, 
Ireneeus,  Clement  of  Alexandria,  Tertullian,  Origen,  Hippo- 
lytus, Philaster,  Epiphanius,  Jerome  and  Theodoret.  But 
as  all,  with  the  solitary  exception  of  Hippolytus,  quote  the 
Gnostic  documents  in  the  briefest  possible  manner,  and 
devote  almost  all  their  space  to  the  refutation  of  heretical 
opinions,  it  is  exceedingly  difficult  to  make  out  from  such 
controversial  writings  what  the  real  views  of  the  various 
Gnostic  schools  were ;  and  this  in  spite  of  the  immense 
labour  and  acumen  which  have  been  brought  to  the  task 

b 


XV111  INTRODUCTION. 

by  such  men  as  Massuet,  Beausobre  and  Mosheim  in  the 
last  century,  and  in  the  present  by  Neander,  Matter,  Baur, 
Mbller,  Lipsitis  and  others  who  will  be  mentioned  later. 

(The  general  literature  of  the  subject  consists  of  the 
Church  Histories  of  Neander,  Baur  and  Schaff ;  Neander  : 
Genet.  Entw.  d.  Gnost.,  Tub.,  1831  ;  Burton  :  Bampton 
Lectures  on  Heresies  of  the  Apost.  Age,  Oxf.,  1830;  Mohler: 
Ursprung  d.  Gnost.,  Tub.,  1831 ;  Baur  :  D.  christl.  Gnosis, 
Tub.,  1835  ;  Norton  :  Hist,  of  the  Gnostics,  Bost.,  1845  ; 
Moller  :  Gesch.  d.  Kosmologie,  Halle,  1860  ;  Lipsius  :  D. 
Gnosticismus,  Leip.,  1860;  Harnack  :  Zur  Quellencritik  d. 
Gesch.  d.  Gnost.,  Leip.,  1873  ;  Mansel  :  Gnostic  Heresies, 
Lond.,  1875.) 

In  fact,  research  into  this  obscure  subject  has  given 
rise  to  one  of  the  most  brilliant  feats  of  scholarship  on 
record.  This  was  achieved  by  R.  A.  Lipsius,  the  learned 
professor  of  divinity  in  the  university  of  Jena,  in  his 
Quellencritik  des  Epiphanios  (1865).  From  the  accounts 
of  Epiphanius  and  Philaster  he  reconstructs  to  some  ex- 
tent the  lost  Syntagma  of  Hippolytus,  of  which  a  description 
is  given  by  Photius.  This  treatise  was  founded  on  certain 
discourses  of  Irenreus.  By  comparing  Philaster,  Epiphanius, 
and  the  Pseudo-Tertullian,  he  recovers  Hippolytus ;  and  by 
comparing  his  restored  Hippolytus  with  Irenseus  he  infers 
a  common  authority,  probably  the  lost  Syntagma  of  Justin, 
or,  as  I  ventured  to  suggest  in  my  essay  on  Simon  Magus 
(1892  ;  p.  41),  the  work  from  which  Justin  obtained  his 
information. 

This  brilliant  attempt  was  owing  to  the  revival  of  interest 
in  Gnostic  studies  aroused  by  a  lucky  find.  In  1842 
Minoides  Mynas,  a  learned  Greek,  sent  on  a  literary  mission 
by  the  French  government,  discovered  what  is  said  to  be  a 
fourteenth  century  MS.  in  one  of  the  monasteries  on  Mount 
Athos.  This  purported  to  be  a  Refutation  of  all  Heresies 
in  ten  books,  the  first  three  and  a  half  of  which  were  un- 
fortunately missing.  Emmanuel  Miller  published  the  first 
edition    of    this    literary    treasure    at    Oxford    in     1851, 


INTBODUCTION.  XIX 

erroneously  attributing  it  to  Origen.  Further  research, 
however,  demonstrated  beyond  a  doubt  that  the  author  was 
Hippolytus  Romanus,  Bishop  of  Ostia,  in  the  first  quarter 
of  the  third  century.  (See  Bunsen,  Hippolytus  and  His  Age, 
1852  ;  Dollinger,  Hippolytus  und  Kallistus,  1853,  of  which 
there  is  an  English  translation  by  Plummer  ;  and  Words- 
worth, St.  Hippolytus  and  the  Church  of  Rome,  1880,  2nd 
ed.)  As  this  treatise,  entitled  Philosophumena  or  the  Refu- 
tation of  all  Heresies,  is  by  far  the  most  important  work  on 
Gnosticism  from  the  pen  of  any  Church  Father,  owing  to 
its  lengthy  quotations  from  original  Gnostic  documents,  it 
may  be  useful  to  state  here  that  in  1859  Duncker,  after 
Schneidewin's  death,  edited  and  published  his  colleague's 
excellent  text  and  moderate  Latin  translation  at  Gottingen ; 
in  1860  Cruice  published  a  less  reliable  text  and  Latin 
translation  at  Paris ;  and  that  the  English  reader  will  find 
a  passable  translation  by  J.  H.  Macmahon  in  the  Ante- 
Nicene  Christian  Library  entitled  The  Writings  of  Hippo- 
lytus, vol.  i.,  1868. 

Curiously  enough  it  was  in  the  same  year  in  which  the 
text  of  the  Philosophumena  was  published,  1851,  that  our 
present  document,  Pistis  Sophia,  was  first  brought  into 
general  notice. 

Of  Gnostic  works  that  have  come  down  to  us,  undoubtedly 
the  most  valuable  is  the  Coptic  codex,  of  which  we  are 
treating  in  the  present  work.  In  fact,  the  only  other  im- 
portant relic  of  the  Gnosis  which  is  so  far  known  to  have 
withstood  the  ravages  of  time  and  escaped  the  destruction 
of  Christian  and  Mohammedan  vandalism,  is  the  Coptic 
papyrus,  known  as  the  Codex  Brucianus  and  preserved  in  the 
Bodleian  at  Oxford,  to  which  reference  will  be  made  later  on. 
In  the  same  library  there  is  also  another  Coptic  MS.,  a 
small  quarto  of  236  pages,  entitled  Treatise  on  the  Mysteries 
of  the  Greek  Letters,  to  which  an  Arabic  translation  is 
appended.  The  author  was  a  priest  called  Atasius,  who, 
somewhat  in  the  fashion  of  the  Gnostic  doctor  Marcus, 
deduces  from  the  form  of  the  letters  of  the  Greek  alphabet 


XX  INTRODUCTION. 

and  the  meaning  of  their  names,  the  development  of  the 
dogmas  of  creation,  providence  and  redemption,  as  Dulaurier 
tells  us  (op.  inf.  cit.,  p.  538).  Dulaurier  in  1847  promised  to 
publish  the  text  and  a  French  translation  of  this  work,  but 
his  labours  have  never  seen  the  light. 

To  this  may  be  added,  as  connected  with  the  magical  side 
of  the  subject,  some  Greek  Papyri  mostly  in  fragments. 
Two  of  the  Leyden  Papyri  of  the  third  century  have 
recently  been  edited,  translated,  and  commentated  upon 
by  A.  Dieterich  (Abraxas  :  Studien  zur  Religionsgeschichte 
des  Spatern  Altertums ;  Leipzig,  1891);  the  London  and 
Parisian  Papyri,  of  the  third  or  fourth  century,  have  been 
edited  by  Wessely ;  in  1852  C.  W.  Goodwin  also  did  some 
good  work  on  the  subject  (Fragment  of  a  Grseco-Egyptian 
Work  upon  Magic  from  a  Papyrus  in  the  British  Museum, 
Cambridge  Antiquarian  Society,  Octavo  Series,  No.  2 ; 
Goodwin  edited,  translated  and  annotated  this  fragment). 
Amelineau  (P.  S.,  Intr.  iv.)  says  that  Rossi  (F.),  the 
Egyptologist  of  Turin,  has  published  a  pap37rus  containing 
an  invocation  similar  to  those  in  the  Pistis  Sophia,  but  I 
have  not  been  able  to  find  this  wrork.  It  is  not  in  I  Papyri 
Copti  del  Museo  Egizio  di  Torino  which  Rossi  transcribed 
and  translated  (Turin,  1887-1892). 

There  is  also  a  short  Hebrew  treatise,  The  Sword  of 
Moses  (Cod.,  Oxford,  1531,  6;  Cod.  Heb.,  Gaster,  178;  see 
Gaster's  text  and  translation,  Journal  of  Royal  Asiatic 
Society,  1896,  i.  and  ii.). 

The  above  magical  wrorks,  however,  are  more  connected 
with  the  superstitions  of  sorcery  than  with  magic  proper, 
and  when  attached  to  Gnosticism  characterise  its  degrada- 
tion in  the  hands  of  the  superstitious  and  ignorant. 

We  may  also  mention  the  Codex  Nazarreus,  although  it 
is  said  at  earliest  to  be  post-Mohammedan,  of  which  there 
are  no  less  than  four  MS.  copies,  dated  respectively  1560, 
1632,  1688  and  1730,  in  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale  alone. 
This  Codex  is  the  scripture  of  the  so-called  Sabaeans,  or 
Christians  of   St.   John,    or  Mandaites,    and   is   known   as 


INTRODUCTION.  XXI 

Sidra  Adam  or  The  Book  of  Adam.  The  text,  in  a  strange 
Chaldyeo-Syriac  idiom,  was  first  published  at  Lund  (1815, 
1816),  by  Matth.  Norberg,  the  learned  Swede,  together 
with  a  vocabulary  and  a  Latin  translation,  in  four  quarto 
volumes.  There  is  also  a  French  translation  by  F.  Tempes- 
tini  in  Migne's  Dictionnaire  des  Apocryphes  (1856).  Compare 
also  the  thesis,  Stellse  Nasarseorum  iEones  ex  Sacro  Gentis 
Codice,  by  Olof  Svanander,  presumably  a  pupil  of  Norberg 
(Lund,  1811). 

Finally  we  may  mention  the  JEthiopic  Enochian  litera- 
ture. In  1773  Bruce  brought  back  from  Abyssinia  three 
copies  of  the  ^Ethiopic  version  of  The  Book  of  Enoch. 
Archbishop  Laurence  issued  a  translation  in  1821  (2nd  ed., 
1833;  3rd,  1838),  under  the  title  The  Book  of  Enoch. 
Hoffman  published  a  German  translation,  Das  Buch  Henoch 
(Jena,  1838),  Gfrorer  a  Latin  version  of  no  value  (Stuggart, 
1840);  Dillmann  a  critical  text  and  also  a  German  version 
(Leipzig,  1851;  2nd  ed.,  1853);  Migne's  Dictionnaire  des 
Apocryphes  (1856)  contains  an  anonymous  French  transla- 
tion ;  there  is  also  an  anonymous  reprint  of  Laurence's 
translation,  with  a  controversial  introduction  (London, 
1883);  and  finally  Charles  recently  (1893)  published  an 
English  translation  from  Dillmann's  text.  This  year  Charles 
has  also  published  The  Book  of  the  Secrets  of  Enoch  (Oxford), 
a  translation  from  Slavonic,  which  presents  us  with  a  new 
tradition  entirely,  namely,  the  Slavonic  Enoch,  from  a  Greek 
original  which  he  places  from  B.C.  30  to  a.d.  70,  the  Greek 
having  in  its  turn  a  Hebrew  background  of  a  still  earlier 
date.  In  an  Appendix  is  a  translation  from  the  Slavonic  of 
a  fragment  of  Melchisedecian  literature.  For  more  than 
1 200  years  this  version  of  Enoch  has  been  unknown  save  in 
Russia,  and  in  Western  Europe  was  not  known  to  exist 
even  in  Russia  till  1892. 

Outside  of  apocryphal  scriptures  and  the  world-bibles, 
these  are  all  the  documents  connected  directly  or  indirectly 
with  the  Gnosis,  which,  to  my  knowledge,  we  possess ;  and, 
in  spite  of  the  good  work  that  has   been  done  since   1850, 


XX11  INTRODUCTION. 

the  chaos  of  Gnosticism  still  remains  to  a  large  extent  in- 
tractable, refusing  to  submit  to  the  ordering  of  even  the 
most  praiseworthy  and  painstaking  industry. 

Nor  is  the  reason  of  this  ill-success  mostly  due  to  the 
paucity  of  material,  but  rather  to  the  intrinsic  difficulty  of 
the  subject  itself,  which  is  not  only  replete  with  the  most 
involved  mysticism,  but  also  bound  up  with  magic  and 
mystery  and  occasionally  sorcery  of  every  kind.  It  is, 
therefore,  not  a  matter  of  great  surprise,  when  we  remember 
the  absolute  disbelief  of  scholarship  in  magic  of  any  kind, 
and  the  distaste  of  the  present  age  for  everything  connected 
with  mysticism,  to  find  that  no  single  writer  on  the  subject, 
except  perhaps  King  in  a  very  feeble  fashion,  has  really 
grappled  with  the  problem.  The  point  of  view  of  the  most 
liberal-minded  scholars  with  regard  to  this  tabooed  subject 
may  be  seen  from  the  remarks  of  Dr.  Gaster,  who  would 
have  magic  treated  after  the  fashion  of  folklore.  The 
translator  of  The  Sword  of  Moses  in  the  second  paragraph 
of  his  introduction  (loc.  sup.  cit.)  writes  :  "  It  is  remarkable 
that  we  do  not  possess  a  good  work,  or  exhaustive  study, 
on  the  history  and  development  of  magic.  It  is  true  that 
we  find  allusions  to  it,  and  sometimes  special  chapters 
devoted  to  the  charms  and  incantations  and  other  super- 
stitious customs  prevailing  among  various  nations  in  books 
dealing  with  such  nations.  But  a  comprehensive  study 
of  magic  is  still  a  pious  (or  impious)  wish."  And,  even 
were  such  a  task  attempted  by  some  venturesome  scholar, 
the  result,  we  may  venture  to  suggest,  would  at  best  be 
merely  a  guess-work  compilation,  and  of  no  real  value, 
unless  the  compiler  in  addition  to  his  scholarship  had  not 
only  a  belief  in  but  also  a  knowledge  of  the  art. 

To  treat  of  Gnosticism,  then,  in  a  really  comprehensible 
manner,  requires  not  only  a  writer  who  at  least  believes 
in  the  possibilities  of  magic,  but  also  a  mystic  or  at  least 
one  who  is  in  sympathy  with  mysticism — a  person  difficult 
to  find  nowadays,  when  the  very  names  of  magic  and 
mysticism    evoke  nothing    but   a   smile  of    contempt   and 


INTRODUCTION.  XX111 

a   frown    of   disapproval    from    the    world    of   science    and 
letters. 

The  present  Introduction,  however,  is  only  concerned 
with  the  purely  historical  and  critical  side  of  the  subject, 
and  even  this  is  restricted  to  the  consideration  of  one 
document. 

Though  it  would  be  highly  presumptuous  to  endeavour 
to  define  Gnosticism  without  a  previous  analysis  i^e 
and  classification  of  the  various  schools,  sects  method  of 
and  offshoots  which  have  been  grouped  under  Gnostic 
this  vague  heading,  we  may  nevertheless  venture  doctors. 
to  suggest  the  probable  point  of  view  which  led  the  best 
of  the  Gnostic  doctors,  pre-eminently  Valentinus,  to  compile 
their  various  treatises.  Let  us  then  consider  the  movement 
about  the  year  150  a.d.  By  that  time  the  original  Logia 
or  the  Urevangelium  of  Christianity  had  disappeared,  and 
the  Synoptic  Gospels  were  all  set  in  the  framework  of  the 
traditional  life  of  the  great  Master  of  the  Faith.  The 
popular  tidal-wave  of  the  new  religion  had  come  exclusively 
from  the  ocean  of  Jewish  tradition,  and  was  engulfing 
a  more  universal  view  of  Christianity  in  the  same  flood  of 
intolerance  and  exclusiveness  which  had  characterised  the 
Hebrew  nation  throughout  the  whole  of  its  previous 
history. 

This  startling  phenomenon  was  now  attracting  the 
attention  of  minds  which  were  not  only  skilled  in  the 
philosophy  of  the  schools,  but  also  imbued  with  the  eclectic 
spirit  of  a  universal  theosophy  and  a  knowledge  of  the 
inner  doctrines  of  the  ancient  religions.  Such  men 
thought  that  they  saw  in  the  Christian  Gospel  a  similarity 
of  doctrine  and  a  universalism  which  was  consanguineous 
with  these  inner  teachings  of  the  ancient  faiths,  and  set  to 
work  to  endeavour  to  check  the  exclusive  and  narrowing 
tendencies  which  they  saw  so  rapidly  developing  among 
the  less  instructed,  who  made  faith  superior  to  knowledge, 
even  to  such  an  extent  as  to  openly  condemn  every  other 
form  of  religion  and  scoff  at  all  philosophy  and  education. 


XXIV  INTRODUCTION. 

It  is  true  that  about  this  time  such  men  arose  as  Clement 
of  Alexandria  and  Origen  who  voiced  much  more  liberal 
views  and  laid  the  foundations  of  Christian  theology,  but 
they  were  exceptions  to  the  rule. 

The  Gnostic  doctors  could  not  believe  that  the  Jews  were 
the  only  nation  in  the  past  to  whom  God  had  revealed 
himself,  and  that  the  scriptures  of  the  nations  were  to  be 
cast  on  the  dustheap  of  falsehood  and  error.  And  yet  they 
saw  that  the  old  order  of  things  had  received  a  rude  shock, 
and  that  the  fierce  faith  which  had  been  aroused  among  the 
people  in  the  personality  of  Jesus,  and  the  social  revolution 
which  was  rushing  along  with  leaps  and  bounds  under  their 
very  eyes,  could  never  be  dammed  back  again.  All  they 
could  hope  to  do  was  to  turn  the  energy  generated  into  a 
more  universal  channel.  Accordingly  they  used  the  tradi- 
tional story  of  Jesus  which  had  roused  such  mighty  enthu- 
siasm, as  the  framework  into  which  they  wove  the  "wisdom" 
of  the  great  religions.  Believing,  as  they  did,  that  truth 
was  one,  and  at  no  time  a  respecter  of  persons  or  nations ; 
that  all  the  nations  had  received  of  that  truth  in  proportion 
to  their  needs  and  capacities,  they  wove  these  ideas  into 
the  Christian  tradition,  and  compiled  gospels  and  apocalypses 
of  that  veiled  and  mysterious  wisdom  which  had  been 
guarded  so  carefully  in  the  temples  throughout  the  ages, 
and  into  which  they  believed  Jesus  had  been  initiated  and 
was  in  his  turn  an  initiator.  Nor  did  they  so  much  invent 
these  things  out  of  their  own  heads  as  it  would  appear,  but 
rather  compiled  them  from  existing  scriptures,  many  of 
which  have  since  disappeared.  They  drew  from  the  wisdom 
of  Egypt,  Chaldaea,  Babylonia,  Assyria,  Phoenicia,  ^Ethiopia, 
the  books  of  Orpheus,  Pythagoras  and  Plato,  of  the  Magi 
and  Zoroaster  ;  and  even  perhaps  in  some  indirect  way  from 
those  of  the  Brahmans.  Their  source  of  information  was  for 
the  most  part  the  Orient. 

Believing  as  they  did,  that  the  orthodox  life  of  Jesus  was 
legendary  and  allegorical,  and  finding  many  other  legends 
current  which  were  not  included  in  the  Synoptic  account ; 


INTRODUCTION.  XXV 

devoted  to  the  mystic  life,  and  making  light  of  the  historical 
side  of  religion,  with  faith  alone  in  the  watchword  "  now 
and  within,"  it  is  evident  that  their  views  met  with  little 
favour  among  the  orthodox  who  clung  above  all  things  to 
what  they  held  to  be  the  greatest  fact  of  all  history.  The 
ancient  wisdom,  however,  proved  far  too  difficult  for 
popular  comprehension,  and  being  also  misunderstood  even 
by  the  followers  of  the  great  doctors  themselves  in  many 
cases,  often  degenerated  into  superstition  and  the  wildest  of 
speculations. 

But,  as  we  are  not  attempting  to  trace  the  evolution  of 
the  movement,  but  simply  presenting  one  of  the  better 
sides  of  the  endeavour,  we  will  proceed  to  a  consideration  of 
the  document  we  are  especially  interested  in,  at  the  same 
time  reminding  the  reader  that  in  this  Introduction  only  a 
brief  outline  of  the  MS.  will  be  attempted,  and  all  further 
considerations  will  be  postponed  for  a  further  Commentary 
which  the  writer  has  the  intention  of  undertaking. 

The  only  MS.  of  the  Pistis  Sophia  known  to  exist  was 
bought  by  the  British  Museum  from  the  heirs  of 
Dr.  Askew  at  the  end  of  the  last  century,  and  is  ^ion  and 
now  catalogued  as  MS.  Add.  5114.     The  title  on  criticism 
the  back  of  the  binding  is  Piste  Sophia  Coptice, 
and  below  is  printed  Mus.   Brit.   Jure  Emptionis.     On  the 
top  of  the  first  page  of  the  MS.  is  the  signature  A.  Askew, 
M.D.     On  the  first  page  of  the  binding  is  the  following  note, 
probably  in  Woide's  hand:  " Codex dialecti  Superioris  JEgypti, 
quam   Sahidicam   seu    Thebaidicam    vocant,    cujus    titulus 
exstat  pagina  115  :  Pmeh  snaou  ntomos  htpiste  Sophia — 
Tomos  secundus  fidelis  Sapientire — Deest  pagina  337-344." 

The  title  Piste  Sophia  is  incorrect ;  nowhere  is  this  form 
found  in  the  book,  and  the  suggested  emendation  of 
Dulaurier  and  Renan  from  Pistis  Sophia  to  Piste  Sophia 
"La  fidele  Sagesse,"  has  received  no  support  from  other 
scholars. 

Where  Askew  found  it  or  bought  it,  I  cannot  discover. 
It   is   not  mentioned    in   his    biography,  and  the  reference 


XXVI  INTRODUCTION. 

given  by  Kcistlin  (v.  i.)  is  im verifiable.  When  the  Museum 
bought  it  is  not  stated.  It  was  evidently  before  the  great 
sale  of  the  Askew  library  which  lasted  twenty  days  in  1785, 
for  the  Pistis  Sophia  is  not  mentioned  in  the  catalogue 
(Bibliotheca  Askeviana  Manuscripta,  etc.,  1785;  v.  Askew, 
A.,  Cat.  B.M.).  The  MS.  is  written  on  vellum  in  Greek 
uncial  letters,  and  is  in  the  Upper  Egyptian  dialect,  called 
Thebaidic  or  Sahidic.  It  consists  of  346  quarto  pages 
written  in  double  column,  and  for  the  most  part  is  in  an 
excellent  state  of  preservation ;  several  pages,  however,  are 
badly  defaced,  and  a  number  faint.  Perhaps  the  most 
competent  expert  who  has  yet  given  a  decided  opinion  as 
to  its  date  is  Woide,  whose  knowledge  of  such  matters  was 
very  extensive,  and  cannot  be  easily  surpassed.  It  was  by 
Woide  that  the  New  Testament,  according  to  the  text  of 
the  famous  Codex  Alexandrinus,  was  edited,  in  uncial  types 
cast  to  imitate  those  of  the  MS.,  in  1786.  In  an  Appendix 
to  this  great  undertaking,  in  1799,  he  added  certain  frag- 
ments of  the  New  Testament  in  the  Thebaico-Coptic  dialect, 
together  with  a  dissertation  on  the  Coptic  version  of  the 
New  Testament.  The  date  of  the  Codex  Alexandrinus  is 
pretty  generally  assigned  to  the  fifth  century,  and  with  the 
exception  of  the  Codex  Vaticanus  and  the  Codex  Sinaiticus, 
which  are  sometimes  assigned  to  the  fourth  century,  is  the 
oldest  extant  MS.  of  the  New  Testament.  This  being 
the  case,  it  is  of  interest  to  read  Woide's  description 
and  opinion  of  the  MS.  of  Pistis  Sophia,  which  was  lent  to 
this  ripe  scholar  by  Dr.  Askew  and  his  heirs  long  enough 
for  him  to  copy  it  out  from  the  first  word  to  the  last. 
Woide  was,  therefore,  eminently  fitted  in  every  way  to  form 
an  opinion ;  in  fact,  no  one  of  equal  fitness  seems  to  have 
appeared  in  the  field  since  his  time.  In  Cramer's  Beytrage 
(op.  inf.  cit.,  pp.  82  sq.),  Woide  wrote  as  follows  in  1778  : 
"  It  [P.  S.]  is  a  very  old  MS.  in  4  to  on  parchment  in  Greek 
uncial  characters,  which  are  not  so  round  as  those  in  the 
Alexandrine  MS.  in  London,  and  in  the  Claromontain  MS. 
in  Paris  [Codex  Regius  Parisiensis,  also  an  Alexandrine  text]. 


INTEODUCTION.  XXV11 

The  characters  of  the  MS.  [P.  S.]  are  somewhat  longer  and 
more  angular,  so  that  I  take  them  to  be  older  than  both  the 
latter  MSS.,  in  which  the  letters  eta,  theta,  omicron,  rho 
and  sigma  are  much  rounder.  There  are  no  capital  letters 
in  the  whole  book ;  the  letters  are  all  equal,  only  at  the  end 
of  the  lines  there  are  sometimes  smaller  letters  to  bring  the 
word  in.  There  are  no  other  marks  of  distinction  than  a 
full  stop  or  colon.  The  words  are  not  separated  from  each 
other ;  the  paragraphs  are  not  distinguished  by  breaks,  but 
by  full  stops.  At  the  beginning  of  the  book,  of  the  second 
part  and  of  the  two  appendices,  the  first  letter  is  not  in 
advance  of  the  line.  If  the  paragraph  begins  with  the  line, 
I  have  sometimes,  though  seldom,  remarked  that  the  first 
letter  is  in  advance  of  the  line.  If  the  paragraph  begins  in 
the  middle  of  a  line  sometimes,  but  not  often,  the  first  letter 
of  the  following  line  is  somewhat  advanced.  Here  and 
there  also  a  section  is  noted  on  the  edge  by  a  mark  that 
looks  almost  like  a  Greek  zeta,  or  by  a  line  from  the  edge 
to  above  the  word.  If  the  paragraph  begins  at  the 
beginning  of  the  line,  the  marks  are  on  the  same  line ;  if 
it  begins  in  the  middle  of  the  line,  they  are  at  the  beginning 

of  the  following  line.     The  folios  are  numbered   in   Greek 
letters." 

Thus  we  see  that  Woide  places  the  date  of  the  MS.  at 
latest  about  the  latter  end  of  the  fourth  century.  It  is  also 
quite  evident  that  the  whole  MS.  from  first  to  last  is  by  the 
same  hand,  and  that  it  is  a  copy  of  another  MS.  There 
are  also  a  few  corrections  at  the  top  or  bottom  of  the 
columns  by  a  hand  of  the  same  date.  An  inspection  of  its 
contents  reveals  the  further  indisputable  fact  that  the  Coptic 
text  was  not  only  a  translation  from  a  Greek  original,  but 
that  it  has  preserved  an  enormous  quantity  of  the  original 
Greek  terms  without  any  attempt  at  translation.  This 
may  at  once  be  seen  from  Schwartze's  Latin  version,  in 
which  he  has  also  preserved  these  innumerable  Greek 
words  without  translation. 

The  whole  style   of  the   work,   moreover,  is  foreign  to 


XXV111  INTRODUCTION. 

the  Coptic  idiom,  as  may  be  seen  from  Amelineau's  Intro- 
duction to  his  French  version  (p.  x),  where  he  writes  : 
"  Whoever  has  any  knowledge  of  the  Coptic  language 
knows  that  this  idiom  is  foreign  to  long  sentences  ;  that 
it  is  a  tongue  eminently  analytic  and  by  no  means  syn- 
thetic ;  that  its  sentences  are  composed  of  small  clauses 
exceedingly  precise,  and  almost  independent  of  each  other. 
Of  course  all  Coptic  authors  are  not  equally  easy,  some  of 
them  are  even  exceedingly  difficult  to  understand  ;  but  this 
much  is  certain,  that  never  under  any  circumstances  in 
Coptic  do  we  come  across  those  periods  with  complicated 
incidental  sentences,  of  three  or  four  different  clauses, 
whose  elements  are  synthetically  united  together  so  that 
the  sense  of  the  entire  sentence  cannot  be  grasped  before 
we  arrive  at  the  last  clause.  Nevertheless,  this  is  just 
what  the  reader  meets  with  in  this  work.  The  sentences 
are  so  entangled  with  incidental  and  complicated  propo- 
sitions, that  often,  indeed  very  often,  the  Coptic  translator 
has  lost  the  thread,  so  to  say,  and  made  main  propositions 
out  of  incidental  clauses,  so  that  we  find  the  continuation 
of  the  first  proposition  three  or  four  pages  further  on. 
This  peculiarity  is  not  calculated  to  facilitate  the  trans- 
lation of  a  work,  the  ideas  in  which  are  in  themselves  very 
difficult  to  comprehend  ;  the  one  thing  that  it  conclusively 
proves  is  that  the  book  was  originally  written  in  a  learned 
language  ;  that  consequently  none  of  the  idioms  spoken  in 
the  Orient  could  have  been  the  original  language  in  which 
the  work  in  question  was  conceived  and  written  ;  that  we 
must  accordingly  choose  between  Greek  and  Latin  ;  that 
only  one  of  these  languages  at  this  period,  the  second 
century  [the  date  assigned  to  the  original  by  Amelineau] , 
is  at  all  likely  in  Egypt,  namely,  Greek." 

Amelineau  makes  rather  too  much  of  the  abstruse  nature 
of  the  subject ;  for,  though  many  passages  are  transcendent- 
ally  mystical,  nevertheless  the  whole  is  conceived  in  a 
narrative  or  descriptive  style.  There  is  no  attempt  at 
philosophical  argument,   no   involved  logical    propositions  ; 


INTRODUCTION.  XXIX 

there  may  also  be  another  reason,  as  we  shall  suggest  later 

on,  for  the   "  losing  of  the  thread."     Nevertheless  the  main 

argument  of  this  learned  Coptic  scholar  is  unanswerable. 

And  not  only  is  it  evident  that  we  are  dealing  with  a 

translation  into  Coptic  from  Greek,  but  also  that  _ 

General 
we    are  not  dealing  with  a    single   work,   but  at  analysis 

least  with  two  treatises,  fragments  of  one  of  which  of  con" 
i  i  •  i  •  -i    ■        -,      i     i  tents. 

have  been  m  two  places  inserted   in  the  body  of 

the  main  treatise,  and  a  larger  fragment  appended  at  the 

end  of   the    MS.     The    main   narrative  also   is   broken  by 

several  important  lacunfe,  due   in  one  case  to  the  loss  of 

several  leaves  of  the  MS.,  and  generally  to  the  carelessness 

of  the  scribe  ;  the  MS.  is,  moreover,  evidently  incomplete. 

A  general  analysis  of  the  contents  reveals  the  following 

general  outline   of  contents,    the   references    being   to   the 

pagination  of  the  MS.  adopted  in  Schwartze's  text,  which 

is  retained  between  brackets  in  the  present  translation. 

Pistis  Sophia,  Book  I.  .         .         .         .         1-124 
Pistis  Sophia,  Book  II.  ...     126-357 

From  the  Books  of  the  Saviour      .  .     357-390 

There  is,  however,  no  title  to  Book  I.,  nor  does  there 
seem  to  be  any  reason  why  the  title  "  The  Second  Book  of 
Pistis  Sophia  "  should  be  inserted  wmere  it  is,  right  in  the 
middle  of  the  narrative. 

Book  II.  ends  halfway  down  page  357,  and  the  whole 
subject  abruptly  changes  with  the  heading,  "  Extract  from 
the  Books  of  the  Saviour." 

In  addition  to  these  three  main  divisions  of  the  MS.,  two 
pages  (253-254),  with  the  same  heading,  "  Extract  from  the 
Books  of  the  Saviour,"  are  inserted  at  haphazard  in  the 
middle  of  Book  II.  They  have  no  reference  to  what  goes 
before  or  what  follows ;  nor  are  they  quite  of  the  same 
nature  as  the  lengthier  Extract  at  the  end  of  the  MS. 

There  is,  moreover,  a  note  which  occupies  the  last  column 
of  Book  I.,  and  which  has  not  the  slightest  reference  to  the 
rest  of  the  narrative ;  why  it  is  inserted  in  this  place  is   a 


XXX  INTRODUCTION. 

mystery.  It  was  probably  copied  in  by  mistake,  or  the 
Coptic  translator  for  some  reason  or  other  added  a  note 
from  some  other  book,  most  probably  one  of  the  Books  of 
the  Saviour. 

At  the  end  of  the  MS.,  and  after  the  conclusion  of  the 
narrative,  there  is  an  extra  leaf  which  has  only  the  left-hand 
column  partially  filled  with  writing.  The  subject  is  here 
again  completely  changed,  and  leads  us  to  suppose  that 
some  leaves  are  missing  before  it. 

Finally,  at  page  379  eight  pages  or  four  leaves  of  the 
MS.  have  disappeared. 

A  general  view  of  the  nature  of  the  subjects  treated  of 
may  be  seen  from  the  contents  table,  which  consists  of  the 
indented  summaries  I  have  added  to  the  text. 

The  question  that  next  arises  is  what  was  the  original 
The  d  ,t  Creek  work  from  which  the  Coptic  translation  of 
and  the  Pistis  Sophia  was  made.     I  am  convinced  that 

shi  X°oi  ^ie  ori©mal  was  no  other  than  the  famous  Apoca- 
the  Greek  lypse  of  Sophia,  composed  by  Valentinus,  the  most 
ongma  .  iearne(j  doctor  of  the  Gnosis,  who  lived  for  thirty 
years  in  Egypt  in  the  latter  half  of  the  second  century,  and 
was  also  a  master  of  the  Greek  language,  in  which  he  wrote 
his  treatises.  But  the  further  consideration  of  this  point 
must  be  postponed  for  the  Commentary  I  propose  to  write, 
and  in  which  a  comparison  between  the  Pistis  Sophia  and 
the  rest  of  the  fragments  of  the  writings  of  Valentinus 
which  have  come  down  to  us,  will  be  attempted.  It  is 
sufficient  to  state  here  that  this  view  is  supported  by 
Woide,  Jablonski,  La  Croze,  Scholtze,  Dulaurier,  Schwartze, 
Renan,  Revaillant,  Usener,  and  Amelineau,  the  last  of  whom, 
in  his  Essay  on  Egyptian  Gnosticism  and  in  the  introduction 
to  his  translation  of  the  Pistis  Sophia,  has  dealt  at  length 
with  the  matter.  The  guarded  opinion  of  Harnack  also 
allows  for  the  date  of  Valentinus.  In  his  essay  on  the 
subject  in  1891  (op.  inf.  cit.,  pp.  95  sq.),  the  famous  Biblical 
critic  gives  the  terminus  a  quo  as  140,  and  the  terminus 
ad  quern  as  302.     He  bases  the  earliest  limit  on  the  fact 


INTRODUCTION.  XXXI 

that  the  Gospels  and  Pauline  Epistles  are  regarded  in  the 

text  as  Holy  Scripture,  and  even  a  passage  from  the  Epistle 

to  the  Romans  is  quoted  by  the  author  as  a  saying  of  Jesus 

by  the   mouth  of  Paul.     Now,   the  Pauline  writings  were 

never   spoken   of   as    Holy    Scripture    before    the    time    of 

Antoninus  Pius  (138).     The  latest  limit  is  arrived  at  by  the 

passage  about  persecution  on  page  277,  which  leads  Harnack 

to  conjecture  that  the  author  was  writing  at  a  time  when 

the  Christians  were  still  lawfully  persecuted  ;  but  on  the 

other  hand  the  author  does  not  seem  to  have  written  in  a 

persecution  he  had  gone  through.     Thus  Harnack  eliminates 

the  persecution  of  Maximin  and  arrives  at  the  302  limit. 

But  all  this  is  very  unsatisfactory ;  and    deductions  made 

from   internal   evidence,   though   an   essential  part   of   the 

higher   criticism,   are   in    this    case    based    on   too    slender 

premises.     The   method  of  Amelineau,   who  compares  the 

known    fragments  of   Valentinus   with    the    text   of   Pistis 

Sophia,  is  the  only  really  satisfactory  test. 

But    what   of   the    fragments    from    the   Books    of   the 

Saviour  which  have  been  inserted  in  and  added  to  _ 

The 
the  text  of  the  Pistis  Sophia  proper  1     On  pages  Books 

246  and  354  mention  is  made   of  certain  Books  of  the 

Saviour. 
of  Ieou,  which  Jesus  promises  to  give  to  his  disciples 

when  he  has  finished  the  teaching  on  which  he  is  engaged. 

In  the  first  case,  a  few  pages  later  on  (253)  the  first  short 

extract    is    inserted    in     the    text,    and    in    the    second, 

almost    immediately    after,    the    Pistis    Sophia    treatise    is 

concluded  (page   357),    and   we   find   the  rest  of  the   MS. 

devoted  to  a  far  longer  extract  from  the  Books  of  the  Saviour. 

These  extracts  bear  a  remarkable  similarity  to  the  contents 

of  the  Coptic  Papyrus,  which  the  famous  Scottish  traveller 

Bruce  brought  to   England   in    1769   from    Upper    Egypt, 

and  bequeathed  to  the  care  of  the  Bodleian  Library.     This 

Papyrus  consists  of    78   leaves,    each    containing  from    27 

to  34  lines,  29  centimetres  high  by   17   wide,   not  in  roll 

but  in  book  form.     It   is  written   in  Greek  characters  and 

is  in  the    Thebaico-Coptic   dialect  like  the    Pistis  Sophia. 


XXX11  INTRODUCTION. 

Some  twenty  leaves  at  least  are  missing,  and  even  when 
Bruce  found  it  it  was  in  a  very  dilapidated  condition. 
It  was  further  injured  by  neglect  and  damp  in  the 
Bodleian,  when  Woide  found  it  and  carefully  copied  it. 
Woide  considered  that  it  was  the  Egyptian  form  of  the 
Pistis  Sophia  written  by  Valentinus  in  Coptic.  It  is,  how- 
ever, evidently  a  translation  like  the  Pistis  Sophia  from 
the  Greek,  and  like  the  Pistis  Sophia  is  crammed  full  of 
the  Greek  original  technical  terms.  Schwartze  also  copied 
it.  In  1891  Amelineau  published  a  text  and  a  French 
translation  at  Paris,  and  in  1892  Schmidt  published  a  text 
and  a  German  translation  at  Leipzig. 

Schmidt  has  sorted  out  this  puzzling  chaos  of  leaves 
with  the  following  results  : 

The  Codex  consists  of  two  treatises  quite  distinct  in 
matter  and  character.  The  first  is  divided  into  two  parts, 
the  two  Books  of  Ieou,  under  the  general  title,  The  Book 
of  the  Great  Logos  according  to  the  Mystery  [?  of  Ieou]. 
The  second  treatise  has  no  title,  and  is  followed  by  a  long 
Hymn  to  the  Gnosis,  also  without  title.  The  First  Book  of 
Ieou  opens  with  the  title,  "  This  is  the  Book  of  the  Know- 
ledge of  the  Invisible  God." 

One  thing  is  abundantly  clear  on  every  page,  namely, 
that  we  are  dealing  with  a  MS.  which  contains  the  ideas 
of  the  same  school  as  that  to  which  the  Pistis  Sophia  and 
the  Books  of  the  Saviour  belong.  In  fact,  the  longer  Extract 
from  the  Books  of  the  Saviour  practically  gives  the  same 
account  of  the  three  baptisms  as  that  found  in  far  greater 
fulness  in  the  Codex  Brucianus. 

Whether  or  not  the  Extracts  from  the  Books  of  the 
Saviour  appended  to  the  MS.  of  the  Pistis  Sophia  belong 
to  the  missing  portions  of  the  Codex  Brucianus,  or 
whether  the  translator  from  the  Greek  abridged  some 
portion  of  the  Books  of  Ieou  to  give  his  readers  an  idea  of 
these  books  to  which  the  text  of  the  Pistis  Sophia  had 
just  made  reference,  it  is  impossible  to  say  ;  this  much  is 
certain,  that  the  Books  of  the  Saviour  and  the  treatises  of 


fill 


INTEODUCTION.  XXX111 

the  Codex  Brucianus  are  united  by  the  closest  ties  of  con- 
sanguinity, and  that  a  commentator  on  the  one  must  be 
intimately  acquainted  with  the  contents  of  the  other. 

The  frequent  mention  of  the  name  Melchisedec  through- 
out the  text  of  the  Pistis  Sophia  reminds  us  of  the  frag- 
ment of  Melchisedecian  literature  translated  by  Charles 
(v.  s.),  and  its  close  connection  with  theEnochian  literature, 
and  points  perhaps  to  one  of  the  sources  of  the  Greek 
original  of  the  Books  of  the  Saviour,  and  also  of  Pistis 
Sophia. 

The  disconnected  column  at  the  end  of  Book  I.  un- 
doubtedly belongs  to  the  same  collection  of  writings 
as  the  Books  of  the  Saviour,  and  also  the  two  pages  (253, 
254)  inserted  in  the  middle  of  Book  II.  Finally  the  odd 
column  at  the  end  of  the  MS.  may  either  come  from  the 
same  source  or  be  an  unaided  effort  of  the  translator  or 
scribe. 

Let    us   now    run    over    the    probable    history    of    our 
treatise,  and  suggest  the  accidents  which  may  have  The  pro- 
befallen  it  before  it  reached  the  hands  of  Antony  toryof  the 
Askew.  treatise. 

The  original  Greek  treatise  of  the  Pistis  Sophia  was 
compiled  by  Valentinus  in  the  latter  half  of  the  second 
century,  perhaps  in  Alexandria.  By  "  compiled  "  I  mean 
that  the  Apocalypse  of  Sophia,  or  whatever  its  title  may 
have  been,  was  not  invented  from  first  to  last  by  Valentinus. 
The  traditional  framework  of  the  narrative,  the  selection  of 
texts  and  passages  from  other  scriptures,  Hebrew,  Christian, 
Egyptian,  Chaldsean,  JEthiopic,  etc.,  or  whatever  they  may 
have  been,  and  the  adaptation  of  nomenclature,  were  his 
share  of  the  task  \  but  it  is  evident  that  in  many  places  he 
was  translating  or  paraphrasing  himself,  and  that  he  had 
great  difficulty  in  turning  some  of  the  Oriental  terms  into 
Greek,  the  original  of  the  name  Pistis  Sophia  being  not 
the  least  difficult  of  such  ani  finally  being  left  in  its 

present  barbaric  and  un- Greek  form. 

Of  this  original  of  Valentinus  doubtless  several  copies 


\\ 


XXXIV  INTRODUCTION. 

were  made,  and  mistakes  may  have  crept  in.  One  of  these 
copies  was  carried  up  the  Nile  and  translated  into  the 
vernacular,  Greek  being  but  little  understood  so  high  up 
the  river.  The  translator  was  evidently  not  a  very  accurate 
person,  as  may  be  seen  from  his  casual  insertion  of  scraps 
from  other  books  ;  moreover,  his  knowledge  of  the  subject 
was  so  superficial  that  he  had  to  leave  many  terms  in  the 
original,  and  doubtless  made  guesses  at  others.  It  is  also 
probable  that  he  added  some  things  and  subtracted  others 
on  the  score  of  orthodoxy,  as  may  be  seen  by  an  inspection 
of  the  rest  of  the  fragments  of  Valentinus.  The  wearisome 
length  of  the  Psalms,  for  instance,  which  Pistis  Sophia 
recites  in  her  repentances,  followed  by  the  shorter  excerpts 
from  the  Salomonic  Odes,  leads  one  to  suppose  that  Valen- 
tinus quoted  only  a  few  striking  verses  from  each  Psalm ; 
and  that  the  more  orthodox  translator,  with  that  love  of 
wearisome  repetition  so  characteristic  of  monkish  piety, 
added  the  other  less  apposite  verses,  with  which  he  was 
very  familiar,  while  he  was  compelled  to  leave  the  Salomonic 
Odes  as  they  stood  owing  to  his  lack  of  acquaintance  with 
the  originals. 

Moreover,  the  translator  must  have  either  translated,  or 
possessed  a  translation  of,  The  Books  of  the  Saviour  and 
The  Books  of  Ieou.  These  were  also  most  probably  a  com- 
pilation of  Valentinus,  or  perhaps  The  Books  of  the  Saviour 
were  a  compilation  of  Valentinus  from  the  older  Books  of 
Ieou,  which  may  have  belonged  to  the  ^Ethiopic  Enochian 
literature,  for  they  are  stated  in  the  Pistis  Sophia  (pages 
246  and  354)  to  have  been  written  down  in  Paradise  by 
Enoch,  and  preserved  from  the  Flood. 

The  MS.  of  the  Coptic  translator  was  copied  towards  the 
end  of  the  fourth  century  by  some  ignorant  copyist,  who 
made  many  mistakes  of  orthography.  It  was  copied  by 
one  man,  as  a  task,  and  hurriedly  executed  ;  and  I  should 
suggest  that  two  copies  wrere  then  made  and  occasionally 
a  page  of  one  copy  substituted  for  a  page  of  the  other ;  and, 
as  the  pages  were  not  quite  exact  to  a  word   or  phrase, 


INTRODUCTION.  XXXV 

we  thus  may  account  for  some  puzzling  repetitions  and  for 
equally  puzzling  lacunae. 

What  was  the  history  of  the  MS.  after  that  date  is 
almost  impossible  even  to  conjecture.  Its  history  must, 
however,  have  been  exciting  enough  for  it  to  have  escaped 
the  hands  of  fanatics  both  Christian  and  Mohammedan.  It 
was  during  this  period  also  that  some  of  the  pages,  as  we 
have  seen,  wTere  lost.  May  we  not  also  hope  that  Abyssinia 
and  Upper  Egypt  may  still  preserve  some  MSS.  that  may 
throw  further  light  on  this  obscure  but  most  interesting 
subject?  In  fact,  I  was  told  in  1891  by  Achinoff,  chief  of 
the  Free  Cossacks,  a  resident  in  the  country,  that  the 
monasteries  of  Abyssinia  do  actually  contain  a  mass  of  very 
ancient  MSS.  which  would  be  of  exceeding  great  value  to  the 
scholarship  of  Europe. 

In  presenting  the  following  translation  to  the  English- 
reading  public,  I  may  say  that  I  should  not  have  The 
ventured  on  such  an  undertaking  if  any  Coptic  Jra]isla_ 
scholar  had  undertaken  the  task,  or  I  had  heard  apolo- 
that  such  a  task  was  contemplated.  In  a  matter  Sia' 
of  such  difficulty  every  possible  liability  to  error  should  be 
eliminated,  and  it  stands  to  reason  that  the  translation  of  a 
translation  must  needs  be  but  an  apology  for  a  first-hand 
version.  Nevertheless  I  am  not  without  predecessors.  The 
Coptic  MS.  itself  is  in  the  first  place  a  translation,  so  that 
even  Coptic  scholars  must  give  us  the  translation  of  a 
translation.  I  am  persuaded  also  that  the  anonymous  and 
imperfect  French  translation  in  the  Appendix  to  Migne's 
Dictionnaire  des  Apocryphes  (vol.  i.)  is  made  from  Schwartze's 
Latin  version  and  not  from  the  Coptic  text.  C.  W.  King 
in  his  Gnostics  and  their  Remains  has  also  translated  a 
number  of  pages  of  the  Pistis  Sophia  from  Schwartze. 
Some  three  or  four  years  ago  Mr.  Nutt,  King's  publisher, 
sent  out  a  notice  for  the  publication  of  the  whole  of  King's 
translation,  but  the  project  fell  through.  Last  year  I 
offered  to  edit  this  translation  of  King's,  but  was  informed 
that  the  literary  legatee  of   the    deceased   scholar  was  of 


XXXVI  INTRODUCTION. 

the  opinion  that  it  would  be  unfair  to  his  memory  to  publish 
a  MS.  that  was  in  so  incomplete  a  condition. 

In  1890  I  had  already  translated  Schwartze's  Latin 
version  into  English  and  published  pages  1  to  252,  with  a 
commentary,  notes,  etc.,  in  magazine  form  from  April,  1890, 
to  April,  1891.  But  I  hesitated  to  put  it  forward  in  book 
form,  and  should  not  have  done  so,  but  for  the  appearance 
of  Amelineau's  French  version  in  1895.  I  then  retranslated 
the  whole  book  again  and  checked  it  by  Amelineau's  version. 
I  was  further  induced  to  venture  on  this  undertaking, 
because  the  narrative,  though  dealing  with  mystical  and 
therefore  obscure  subjects,  is  in  itself  exceedingly  simple, 
and  therefore  mistakes  cannot  so  readily  creep  in  as  into  a 
difficult  philosophical  work.  I,  therefore,  present  my  trans- 
lation with  all  hesitation,  but  at  the  same  time  think  that 
the  English  public,  which  is  steadily  increasing  its  interest 
in  mysticism  and  allied  subjects,  will  be  better  satisfied  with 
half  a  loaf  than  with  no  bread. 

In  conclusion  it  only  remains  for  me  to  append  a  brief 
The  summary  of  the  work  that  has  already  been  done 

work  on  the  subject.     This  may  best  be  seen  by  treating 

been  pre-    ^  from  a  chronological  point  of  view.      In  addition 
viously       to  a  few  scattered  articles  in  magazines  which  are 
not  of  the  first  importance,  the  chief  contributions 
to  the  subject  are  : 

a.  1770.     Article  in  Brittische  Theol.  Magazin ;  see  Kostlin  infra. 

b.  1773.     Woide  (C.  A.).     Article  in  Journal  de  Savants. 

c.  1778.     Woide.     Article  in  J.  A.  Cramer's  Beytrage  zur  Befo- 

derung  theologischer  und  andrer  wichtigen  Kennt- 
nisse  (Kiel  u.  Hamburg),  pp.  82  sq. 

d.  1799.     Woide.     Appendix    ad    Editionem   Novi   Testamenti 

Graeci  e  Codice  MS.  Alexandrino  a  Carol o  God- 
fredo  Woide  Description  qua  continentur  Fragmenta 
Novi  Testamenti  juxta  interpretationem  Dialecti 
Superioris  iEgypti  quae  Thebaidica  vel  Sahidica 
appellatur  e  Codicibus  Oxoniensibus  maxima  ex 
parte   Desumpta,   cum   Dissertatione  de   Versione 


INTRODUCTION.  XXXV11 

Bibliorum    iEgyptiaca    quibus    subjictur    Codicis 
Vaticani  Collatio  (Oxonii) — p.  137. 

Woide  not  only  carefully  copied  the  whole  of  the  MS. 
but  also  the  Codex  Brucianus  at  Oxford.  He  gives  the  date 
of  the  MS.  as  about  the  fourth  century,  and  considers  the 
writer  to  have  been  Valentinus.  He,  however,  published 
no  work  on  the  subject. 

e.  1812.  Miinter  (F.).  Odse  Gnostica?  Saloraoni  Tribute,  The- 
baice  et  Latine,  Prefatione  et  Adnotationibus  Philo- 
logicis  Illustrate  (Hafnise). 

Bishop  Mlinter,  a  learned  Dane,  probably  got  his  text 
from  Woide's  copy  ;  his  brief  pamphlet  is  of  no  particular 
importance,  nevertheless  it  was  solely  upon  these  few  brief 
selections,  the  seven  Odes  of  Solomon,  that,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  Dulaurier,  scholars  formed  their  opinion  of  the 
Pistis  Sophia  up  to  the  time  of  the  publication  of  Schwartze's 
work  in  1851.  Miinter  believes  that  the  original  treatise 
belongs  to  the  second  century. 

/.  1843.  Matter  (J.).  Histoire  Critique  du  Gnosticisme  et  de  son 
Influence  zur  les  Sectes  religieuses  et  philosophiques 
des  six  premiers  Siecles  de  FEre  chretienne  (Paris) 
— 2nd  ed.  ii.  41  sq.,  350  sq.  The  first  edition  appeared 
in  1828  and  contains  no  reference  to  P.  S.  In  Dor- 
ner's  German  translation  the  references  are,  ii.  69  sq. 
and  163  sq. 

Matter  rejects  the  idea  of  Valentinus,  but  he  had  no 
acquaintance  whatever  with  the  text  and  bases  himself 
entirely  on  Woide.  He  states  that  the  MS.  can  scarcely 
be  prior  to  the  fourth  century,  and  (p.  352)  places  the  date 
of  the  original  treatise  between  the  end  of  the  second  and 
the  end  of  the  fifth.  He  gives  no  opinion  as  to  the  school 
to  which  it  belongs. 

g.  1838.     Dulaurier  (E).     Article  in  the  Moniteur  (27th  Sept.). 

h.  1847.  Dulaurier.  Article  in  the  Journal  Asiatique,  Quatrieme 
Serie,  Tome  ix.,  juin,  pp.  534-548  ;  entitled  "  Notice 


XXXV111  INTKODUCTION. 

sur  le  Manuscript  copte-thebain,  intitule  La  Fidele 
Sagesse ;  et  sur  la  Publication  projetee  du  Texte  et 
de  la  Traduction  francaise  de  ce  Manuscript." 

On  page  542  Dulaurier  tells  us  that  he  had  made  a 
French  translation  from  the  Coptic  in  the  following  words  : 
"  The  translation  of  the  Pistis  Sophia  and  the  glossary 
which  forms  a  complement  to  it  are  finished,  and  will  be 
sent  to  the  printers,  when  I  have  convinced  myself  that  I 
have  fulfilled  the  requirements  that  this  task  imposes,  taking 
into  consideration  the  present  state  of  science  and.  my  own 
capabilities.  The  MS.  from  which  I  have  made  my  transla- 
tion is  a  copy  which  I  have  taken  from  the  original,  during 
my  stay  in  England  in  1838-1840,  when  I  was  charged  by 
MM.  de  Salvandy  and  Villemain,  successive  ministers  of 
public  instruction,  with  the  commission  of  proceeding  to 
London  to  study  this  curious  monument."  Dulaurier, 
however,  did  not  publish  his  labours,  nor  have  I  as  yet 
come  across  any  record  of  the  fate  of  his  MSS.  He  ascribes 
the  treatise  to  Valentinus. 

i.  1851.  Schwartze  (M.  G.).  Pistis  Sophia,  Opus  Gnosticum 
Valentino  adjudicatum,  e  Codice  Manuscripto 
Coptico  Londinensi  descriptum,  Latine  vertit 
M.  G.  Schwartze,  edidit  J.  H.  Petermann  (Bero- 
lini). 

Schwartze  died  at  an  early  age  before  the  completion  of 
his  labours  on  the  Pistis  Sophia,  and  the  MS.  translation 
he  left  behind  contained  a  number  of  blanks  and  passages 
which  he  intended  to  fill  up  and  correct.  Petermann  has 
confined  himself  in  his  notes  strictly  to  verbal  corrections 
and  suggestions  as  to  varise  lectiones.  The  consequence 
is  that  we  have  a  translation  without  the  notes  of  the  trans- 
lator, and  without  a  word  of  introduction.  Petermann 
says  the  task  of  editing  was  so  severe  that  he  frequently 
suffered  from  fits  of  giddiness.  Schwartze  copied  out  the 
whole  of  the  Coptic  MS.  of  Pistis  Sophia  and  also  the 
Oxford  Codex  Brucianus.     He  considers  the  original  treatise, 


INTRODUCTION.  XXXIX 

as  we  see  from  the  title  of  his  work,  to  be  written  by 
the  hand  of  Valentinus ;  but  Petermann  is  of  the  opinion 
that  it  is  the  work  of  an  Ophite,  and  promises  to  set  forth 
his  reasons  at  length  in  a  treatise,  which  has  unfortunately 
never  seen  the  light.  Kbstlin  and  Schmidt  also  hold  this 
view,  and  as  far  as  the  Extracts  from  the  Books  of  the 
Saviour  are  concerned,  I  see  no  reason  why  there  should  not 
be  some  truth  in  the  idea.  For  we  may  connect  these 
Books  closely  with  the  Books  of  Ieou,  and  the  latter  connect 
us  at  once  with  the  Enochian  literature.  The  Ophites 
were  pre-Valentinian  and  mostly  Syrian.  They  were  the 
first  to  take  the  distinct  name  of  Gnostics.  Some  of  their 
books  were  translated  into  Greek.  This  fits  in  with  the 
hypothesis  put  forth  above  that  Valentinus  compiled  the 
Books  of  the  Saviour  from  a  prior  set  of  Gnostic  writings. 
The  Melchisedecian  ideas  would  also  come  through  the 
Syrian  Gnosis,  and  be  cognate  to  the  Enochian  tradition. 
A  review  of  Schwartze's  work  appeared  in  the  Journal  des 
Savants  of  1852  (p.  333). 

j.  1852.  Bunsen  (C.  C.  J.).  Hippolytus  und  seine  Zeit,  Anfange 
und  Aussichten  des  Christenthums  unci  der  Mensch- 
heit  (Leipzig),  i.  47,  48.  Hippolytus  and  his  Age 
(London,  1852),  i.  61,  62. 

"Great,  therefore,  were  my  hopes  in  1842,  that  the 
ancient  Coptic  manuscript  of  the  British  Museum,  inscribed 
Sophia,  might  be  a  translation,  or  at  least  an  extract,  from 
that  lost  text-book  of  Gnosticism  [the  work  quoted  by 
Hippolytus,  sub  Valent.]  :  but  unfortunately  the  accurate 
and  trustworthy  labours  of  that  patient  and  conscientious 
Coptic  scholar,  Dr.  Schwartze,  so  early  taken  away  from 
us,  have  proved  to  me  (for  I  have  seen  and  perused  his 
manuscript,  which  I  hope  will  soon  appear),  that  this 
Coptic  treatise  is  a  most  worthless  (I  trust,  purely  Coptic) 
offshoot  of  the  Marcosian  heresy,  of  the  latest  and  stupidest 
mysticism  about  letters,  sounds,  and  words."  Bunsen 
stands  absolutely  alone  in  this  opinion,  and  we  doubt 
whether  he  could  have  read  Schwartze's  MS.  with  any  care. 


xl  INTRODUCTION. 

k.  1853.  Baur  (F.  C).  Das  Christenthum  und  die  christliche 
Kirclie  der  drei  ersten  Jahrhunderte  (Tubingen) — 
notes  on  pp.  185,  186,  and  205,  206. 

Baur  evidently  added  these  notes  at  the  last  moment 
before  publication.  On  page  206  n.,  he  leans  to  the  idea 
of  an  Ophite  origin. 

I.  1854.  Kostlin  (K.  R.).  Two  articles  in  Baur  and  Zeller's 
Theologische  Jahrbucher  (Tubingen),  xiii.  1-104  and 
137-196 ;  entitled  "  Das  gnostische  System  des 
Buches  Pistis  Sophia." 

Kostlin  was  the  first  to  make  an  exhaustive  analysis  of 
the  contents  of  the  treatise,  and  his  labours  are  used  by 
Lipsius  in  his  article  in  Smith  and  Wace's  Dictionary  of 
Christian  Biography.  He  assigns  its  date  to  the  first  half 
of  the  third  century,  and  assumes  that  it  is  of  Ophite 
origin. 

In  a  note  to  page  1,  Kostlin  writes  : 

"  The  MS.  from  which  the  work  is  published  belongs 
to  the  collection  of  MSS.  collected  by  Dr.  Askew  of  London 
during  his  travels  in  Italy  and  Greece,  of  which  the 
British  Theological  Magazine  (das  Brittische  theol.  Magazin) 
for  the  year  1770  (vol.  i.  part  4,  p.  223)  gives  more  particu- 
lars." 

There  is  no  such  magazine  in  the  catalogue  of  the 
British  Museum.  The  Theological  Repository  for  1770 
contains  no  information  on  the  subject;  and  no  permutation 
of  names  solves  the  mystery.  There  were  very  few 
magazines  published  at  that  early  date,  so  that  the  choice 
is  limited. 

m.  1856.  An  anonymous  translation  in  Migne's  Dictionnaire 
des  Apocryphes,  torn.  i.  app.  part  ii.  coll.  1181- 
1286 ;  this  tome  forms  vol.  xxiii.  of  his  third 
Encyclopedic  Theologique. 

The  translation  is  a  sorry  piece  of  work,  more  frequently 
a  mere  paraphrase  from  Schwartze's  version  than  a  trans- 
lation j    there    are    also  frequent   omissions,  sometimes  as 


INTRODUCTION.  xli 

many  as  40  pagesof  the  Coptic  Codex;  e.g.,  pp.  18,  19, 
36  sq.,  50,  51,  72,  73,  86-90,  108-135,  139,  157-160,  162, 
171,  179,  180,  184-186,  221-243,  245-255,  281-320,  324- 
342.  These  are  some  of  the  omissions  ;  but  there  are  many 
more.  It  is,  therefore,  entirely  useless  to  the  student.  The 
anonymous  writer  vaguely  suggests  a  late  date  for  the 
treatise  because  of  the  complicated  nature  of  the  system. 

n.  1860.  Lipsius  (R.  A.).  Article  "  Gnosticismus  "  in  Ersch  and 
Gruber's  Encyclopaedie,  separately  published  at 
Leipzig,  1860,  pp.  95  sq.  and  157  sq.  ;  also  Article 
"  Pistis  Sophia  "  in  Smith  and  Wace's  Dictionary 
of  Christian  Biography  (London),  vol.  iv.,  1887. 

Lipsius  considers  Pistis  Sophia  an  Egypto-Ophite  treatise, 
and  with  Kostlin  assigns  its  date  to  the  first  half  of  the 
third  century. 

o.  1877.  Jacobi.  Article  "  Gnosis  "  in  Herzog's  Theolog.  Real 
Encyclopadie  (Leipzig) ;  2nd  ed.,  1888  ;  Translation, 
New  York  ;  1882,  1883. 

Jacobi  believes  in  an  Ophite  origin. 

p.  1875-1883.  The  Paloeographical  Society,  Facsimiles  of  MSS. 
and  Inscriptions,  Oriental  Series,  ed.  by  William 
Wright  (London). 

Plate  xlii.  The  editor,  or  whoever  is  responsible  for  the 
letter-press,  says  that  the  original  is  later  than  Valentinus, 
and  places  the  MS.  in  the  seventh  century.  There  is  a  care- 
ful analysis  of  the  text  from  the  technical  standpoint,  and 
the  facsimile  is  of  f .  11  a. 

q.  1887.  King(C.  W.).  The  Gnostics  and  their  Remains,  Ancient 
and  Medifeval  (London),  2nd  ed.  The  first  ed. 
appeared  in  1864,  but  contains  no  reference  to 
P.  S. 

King  regards  the  Pistis  Sophia  as  the  most  precious 
relic  of  Gnosticism.  Besides  many  references  scattered 
throughout     the     volume,     there     are     translations    from 


xlii  INTRODUCTION. 

Schwartze  of  pages  227-239,  242-244,  247-248,  255-259, 
261-263,  282-292,  298-308,  341,  342,  358,  375  of  the  Codex. 
King,  who  was  more  of  a  numismatologist  and  antiquarian 
than  a  critic,  does  not  venture  an  opinion  either  on  the  date 
or  author. 

r.  1887.  Aui61ineau  (E.).  Essai  sur  le  Gnosticisme  egyptien, 
ses  Developpements  et  son  Origine  egyptienne,  in 
the  Annals  du  Musee  Guimet  (Paris),  torn.  xiv.  Cf. 
especially  the  third  part  for  system  of  Valentinus 
and  Pistis  Sophia,  pp.  166-322. 

s.  1880.  Amelineau.  Article  "  Les  Traitds  gnostiques  d'Oxford  ; 
Etude  critique,"  in  the  Revue  de  l'Histoire  des 
Religions  (Paris,  edited  by  Reville),  an  essay  of  72 
pp.,  8vo. 

t.  1891.  Amelineau.  Notice  sur  les  Papyrus  gnostique  Bruce, 
Texte  et  Traduction  (Paris),  305  pp.,  4to. 

u.  1895.  Amelineau.  Pistis  Sophia,  Ouvrage  gnostique  de 
Valentin,  traduit  du  copte  en  francais,  avec  une 
Introduction  (Paris),  pp.  xxxii.  and  204,  8vo. 

Amelineau  goes  thoroughly  into  the  Valentinian  origin 
of  the  treatise,  but  leans  almost  exclusively  to  an  Egyptian 
origin  of  the  ideas.  The  MS.  itself,  however,  he  places  very 
late,  writing  on  page  xi.  of  his  Introduction  as  follows : 
"  After  an  examination  of  the  enormous  faults  which  the 
scribe  has  committed,  I  cannot  attribute  to  the  MS.  which 
has  preserved  the  Pistis  Sophia  to  us,  a  date  later  than  the 
ninth  or  tenth  century,  and  that  too  the  minimum.  For 
this  I  have  several  reasons.  Firstly,  the  MS.  is  written  on 
parchment,  and  parchment  was  hardly  ever  commonly  used 
in  Egypt  before  the  sixth  or  seventh  century.  Secondly, 
the  writing,  which  is  uncial,  though  passable  in  the  first 
pages  of  the  MS.,  becomes  bastard  in  a  large  number  of 
leaves,  when  the  scribe's  hand  is  fatigued  ;  no  longer  is  it 
the  beautiful  writing  of  the  Egyptian  scribes  of  the  great 
periods,  but  slack,  inconsistent,  almost  round  and  hurried. 
Thirdly,  the  faults  of  orthography  in  the  use  of  Greek  words 


introduction.  xliii 

evidently  show  that  the  scribe  belonged  to  a  period  when 
Greek  was  almost  no  longer  known." 

In  a  footnote  Amelineau  says  that  he  is  perfectly  aware 
that  this  opinion  of  his  will  "  raise  a  tempest,"  and  begs 
for  a  suspension  of  judgment  till  he  has  published  his 
reasons  as  to  the  late  use  of  parchment,  at  greater  length. 
Now  it  was  Ptolemy  II.  (Philadelphia),  King  of  Egypt 
from  283-247  B.C.,  who  forbade  the  exportation  of  papy- 
rus from  Egypt,  and  forced  the  rival  bibliophiles  at 
Pergamus  to  copy  their  books  on  parchment.  The  library 
of  Pergamus  was  bequeathed  to  the  Senate  of  Rome,  and 
Antony  handed  it  over  to  Cleopatra  somewhere  about  35 
B.C.  ;  this  library,  consisting  for  the  most  part  of  parchment 
rolls  and  books,  was  placed  in  the  new  Brucheion  at 
Alexandria,  to  replace  the  old  Library  which  was  totally 
destroyed  by  the  fire  of  Caesar's  fleet  in  47.  Parchment, 
then,  was  common  enough  as  a  book-fabric  in  Alexandria, 
at  least  600  years  before  Amelineau's  limit. 

An  examination  of  the  MS.  does  not  entirely  substantiate 
the  strictures  of  Amelineau  on  the  careless  writing  of  the 
scribe ;  the  writing  though  hurried  is  fairly  consistent, 
while  the  first  dozen  pages  are  most  admirably  written. 
The  faults  of  spelling  only  prove  that  this  particular  scribe 
did  not  know  Geeek,  a  likely  enough  thing  if  the  copy  was 
made  in  Upper  Egypt  and  not  at  Alexandria.  I  am,  there- 
fore, far  from  convinced  by  any  one  of  the  reasons  Ame- 
lineau brings  forward. 

v.  1891.  Harnack  (A.).  Uber  das  gnostische  Buch  Pistis 
Sophia  (Leipzig). 

I  have  already  given  Harnack's  views  on  the  date  ;  he 
attributes  the  authorship  to  a  modified  Ophite  origin.  He 
suggests  that  Book  I.  only  is  properly  Pistis  Sophia  ;  Book 
II.  should  be  called  the  Questions  of  Mary  (p.  94). 

xv.  1892.  Schmidt  (C).  Gnostische  Schriften  in  koptischer 
Sprache  aus  dem  Codex  Brucianus,  herausgegeben, 
iibersetzt    und   bearbeitet,   pp.   680,   8vo  ;   in   von 


xliv  INTRODUCTION. 

Gebliardt  and  Harnack'sTexte  und  Untersuchungen 
zur  Geschichte  der  alt  christlichen  Literatur  (Leip- 
zig), viii.  Band. 

Schmidt  agrees  with  Harnack  as  to  date,  and  thinks  that 
the  Pistis  Sophia  may  be  attributed  to  an  Ophite  school. 
In  the  works  of  the  three  writers  referred  to  above  there  is  a 
mass  of  information  with  regard  to  the  Pistis  Sophia,  but  as 
only  the  date  and  to  some  extent  the  authorship  are  being 
dealt  with  in  this  Introduction,  the  further  consideration  of 
their  views  must  be  postponed  until  a  Commentary  to  form 
a  complement  to  the  present  translation  is  attempted. 


[THE  FIRST  BOOK  OF  PISTIS  SOPHIA.] 

(l)  It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  risen  from 
the  dead,  that  he  passed  eleven  years 

Jesus 

speaking   with    his    disciples,    and  in-   hitherto 

instructeth 

structing  them  up  to    the   regions    of  his  dis- 
ciples only 
the    first    statutes    only,    and    up    to   up  to  the 

p      i         n  i         region  of 

the  regions  01  the  first  mystery,  the  the  first 
mystery  within  the  veil,  within  the 
first  statute,  which  is  the  four  and  twentieth 
mystery,  and  below  those  which  are  in  the 
second  space  of  the  first  mystery,  which  is 
before  all  mysteries — the  father  in  the  likeness 
of  a  dove. 

And  Jesus  said  to  his  disciples :  "I  am  come 
from  that  first  mystery,  which  is  also   Whatthe 
the  last  mystery,  the  four  and  twen-   J^^f' 
tieth  mystery."    For  his  disciples  knew    roundeth- 
not  that  mystery,  nor  did  they  understand  that 
there  was  anything  within  that  mystery  ;    but 
they  thought  that  that  mystery  indeed  was  the 
chief  of  the  pleroma,  and  the  head  of  all  that 
exists ;  and  they  thought  it  was  the  end  of  all 
ends,   for  Jesus  had   said   to    them    concerning 


PISTIS    SOPHIA. 


that  mystery  :  "It  surroundeth  the  first  statute, 
(2)  and  the  five  impressions,  and  the  great 
light,  and  the  five  supporters,  and  even  the 
whole  treasure  of  light." 

Moreover,  Jesus  had  not  told  his  disciples  the 
The  regions  whole  distribution  of  all  the  regions  of 
invisible.  the  great  invisible,  and  of  the  three 
triple  powers,  and  of  the  four  and  twenty  in- 
visibles, with  all  their  regions,  their  aeons,  and 
their  orders,  according  to  the  manner  of  their 
distribution,  for  they  are  the  emanations  of  the 
great  invisible  ;  nor  of  their  uugenerated,  self- 
generated,  and  generated,  their  light-givers  and 
unpaired,  their  rulers  and  authorities,  their  lords 
and  archangels,  their  angels  and  decans,  their 
workmen  and  all  the  habitations  of  their 
spheres,  and  all  the  orders  of  each  one  of  them. 

Nor  had  Jesus  told  his  disciples  the  whole 
The  trea-  distribution  of  the  emanations  of  the 
sure  of  light.  treasurej  nor  their  orders,  according  to 

which  they  are  distributed ;  nor  had  he  told 
them  their  saviours,  according  to  the  orders  of 
each  as  they  are  ;  nor  had  he  told  them  what 
are  the  guardians  which  are  beside  each  [gate] 
of  the  treasure  of  light ;  nor  had  he  told  them 
the  region  of  the  saviour  of  the  twins,  (3)  who 
is  the  child  of  the  child  ;  nor  had  he  told  them 
the  regions  of  the  three  amens,  in  what  regions 
they  are  distributed  ;   nor  had  he  told  them  in 


FIKST   BOOK. 


what  region  are  the  five  trees,  or  the  seven 
aniens,  which  are  also  the  seven  voices,  what 
is  their  region,  according  to  the  manner  of  their 
distribution. 

Nor  had  Jesus  told  his  disciples  of  what  type 
are  the  five  supporters,  or  from  what  The  light- 
region  they  were  brought  forth  ;  nor  world- 
had  he  told  them  how  the  great  light  had 
emanated,  or  from  what  region  it  had  been 
brought  forth ;  nor  had  he  told  them  of  the  five 
impressions,  nor  of  the  first  statute,  from  what 
region  they  had  been  brought  forth ;  but  he 
simply  spoke  of  them,  and  taught  them  that 
they  existed,  without  speaking  of  their  emana- 
tion and  the  order  of  their  regions.  And  this 
is  why  they  did  not  know  that  there  were  other 
regions  within  that  mystery. 

Nor  had  he  told  his  disciples  :  "  I  pass  through 
such  or  such  a  region  until  I  enter  that  mystery, 
or  [when]  I  leave  it "  ;  but,  in  instructing  them, 
he  merely  said :  "  I  have  come  from  that  mys- 
tery." And  this  is  why  they  thought  concern- 
ing that  mystery,  that  it  was  the  end  of  ends,  (4) 
and  that  it  was  the  chief  of  the  pleroma,  and 
even  that  it  was  the  pleroma  itself.  For  Jesus 
said  to  his  disciples  :  "  It  is  that  mystery  which 
surroundeth  all  the  pleromas  of  which  I  have 
spoken,  from  the  day  on  which  I  first  met  with 
you  even  unto  this  day."     And  this  is,  there- 


4  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

fore,  why  the  disciples  thought  there  was  nothing 
within  that  mystery. 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  that  the  disciples 
Jesus  and  were  sitting  together  on  the  Mount  of 
are  seaTe^68  ^livesj  speaking  of  these  things,  re- 
Mount  of  joining  with  great  joy,  and  being  ex- 
oiives.  ceeding  glad  and  saying  one  to  another  : 

"  Blessed  are  we  before  all  men  who  are  on  the 
earth,  for  the  saviour  hath  revealed  this  unto 
us,  and  we  have  received  all  fulness  and  all 
perfection/'  And  while  they  were  saying  these 
things  the  one  to  the  other,  Jesus  sat  a  little 
removed  from  them. 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  on  the  fifteenth 
a  great         day  °f  the  month  of  Tobe,  the  day  of 

dfs^ndX  the    £ul1   m00D>  0n    that    da7'  when    the 

on  Jesus.  sun  j^  risen  [n  ^s  going,  that  there 
came  forth  after  it  a  great  stream  of  light 
shining  exceedingly  ;  there  was  no  measure  to 
the  light  with  which  it  was  surrounded,  for  it 
came  forth  from  the  light  of  lights,  and  it 
came  forth  from  the  last  mystery,  (5)  that  is  to 
say,  the  four  and  twentieth  mystery,  from  the 
interiors  to  the  exteriors  which  are  in  the  orders 
of  the  second  space  of  the  first  mystery.  And 
this  stream  of  light  poured  over  Jesus,  and 
surrounded  him  entirely.  He  was  seated  apart 
from  his  disciples,  and  was  shining  exceedingly ; 
there  was  no  measure  to  the  light  in  which  he  was. 


FIRST   BOOK.  5 

But  the  disciples  saw  not  Jesus  because  of 
the    great   light   in    which  he  was,  or   It  sur. 
which  proceeded  from  him  ;  for  their   ^^  en- 
eyes  were  blinded  by  the  great  light   tirely- 
in  which  he  was.       They    saw   the    light    only, 
shooting  forth   great    rays   of   light.      And   the 
rays  of  light  were  not  equal  together,  but  the 
light    was   of   every  kind,  and    of   every   type, 
from  the  lower  to  the  higher  part  thereof;  each 
[ray]    more    admirable    than    its   fellow,    in    in- 
finite manner,  in  a  great  glory  of  immeasurable 
light,    which    stretched  from  the    earth    to  the 
heavens.      And  when  the  disciples  saw  the  light, 
they  were  in  great  fear  and  great  confusion. 

(6)  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  this  stream 
of  light  had  come  upon  Jesus,  and  had   Jesus  as_ 
gradually  surrounded  him,  that  Jesus   £^eth 
was    borne    upward    or    soared    aloft,    heaven- 
shining  exceedingly  in  an   immeasurable  light. 
And  the  disciples  gazed  after  him,  none  of  them 
speaking,  until  he  had  entered  into  the  heaven. 
They  were  all  in  great   silence.      These  things 
then  came  to  pass  on  the  fifteenth  day  of  the 
moon,  the  day  on  which  it  is  full  in  the  month 
of  Tobe. 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  ascended  into 
heaven,  after  the  third  hour,  that  all  the  powers 
of  the  heavens  were  confused,  and  all  were 
thrown  one   on   another  in   turn,   they  and  all 


6  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

their  aeons,  all  their  regions,  and  all  their  orders, 
and  the  whole  earth  was  shaken,  and 

The  confu- 
sion of  the     an  the  inhabitants  thereof.     And  con- 
powers  and 
the  great      fusion  was  upon  all  men  in  the  world, 

earthquake. 

and  also  upon  the  disciples,  and  all 
thought  that  the  world  would  surely  be 
destroyed. 

And  all  the  powers  which  are  in  the  heavens 
did  not  cease  to  be  in  confusion,  they  and  the 
whole  world,  and  all  were  shaken  the  one  on  the 
other  in  turn,  from  the  third  hour  of  the  fifteenth 
day  of  the  moon  of  Tobe,  until  the  ninth  hour 
of  the  morrow. 

And  all  the  angels  with  their  archangels,  and 
The  dismay  all    the  powers  of   the  height,  (7)  all 

ofthedis-  r  .  .  .  . 

cipies.  sang  from  the  interior  of  the  interiors, 

so  that  the  whole  world  heard  their  voice  ;  they 
ceased  not  till  the  ninth  hour  of  the  morrow. 
But  the  disciples  sat  together  in  fear,  and  were 
in  the  greatest  possible  distress.  They  feared 
because  of  the  great  earthquake  which  was 
taking  place,  and  they  wept  together,  saying  : 
"  What  will  be  ?  Surely  the  saviour  will  not 
destroy  all  the  regions  ? "  Thus  saying,  they 
wept  together. 

On  the  ninth  hour  of  the  morrow,  the  heavens 
Jesus  de-      were  opened,  and  they  saw  Jesus  de- 

scendeth  .    . 

again.  scending,   shmmg  exceedingly  ;    there 

was  no  measure  to  the  light  which  surrounded 


FIRST   BOOK.  7 

him,  for  he  shone  more  brightly  than  when  he 
had  ascended  to  the  heavens,  so  that  it  is 
impossible  for  any  in  this  world  to  describe  the 
light  in  which  he  was.  He  shot  forth  rays 
shining  exceedingly ;  his  rays  were  without 
measure,  nor  were  his  rays  of  light  equal  to- 
gether, but  they  were  of  every  figure  and  of 
every  type,  some  being  more  admirable  than 
the  others  in  infinite  manner.  And  they  were 
all  pure  light  in  every  part  at  the  Thenature 
same  time.  It  was  of  three  degrees,  ofhls§lory- 
one  surpassing  the  other  in  infinite  manner.  The 
second,  which  was  in  the  midst,  excelled  the 
first  which  was  below  it,  and  the  third,  the  most 
admirable  of  all,  surpassed  the  two  below  it. 
The  first  glory  was  placed  below  all,  like  to  the 
light  which  came  upon  Jesus  (8)  before  he  as- 
cended into  the  heavens,  and  was  very  regular 
as  to  its  own  light.  And  the  three  degrees  of 
light  were  of  every  variety  of  light  and  type, 
each  excelling  the  others  in  infinite  manner. 

It  came  to  pass,  when  the  disciples  had  seen 
these  things,  that  they  feared  exceed-   Jesus  ad- 

dressetli 

ingly,  and  were  troubled.     But  Jesus,    them. 
the    compassionate  and  merciful-minded,    when 
he    saw   that  his  disciples  were    troubled    with 
great     confusion,     spake     unto    them,     saying : 
"  Take  courage.     It  is  I,  be  not  afraid." 

It  came  to  pass,    when    the    disciples    heard 


8  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

these  words,  that  they  said  :  "  Master,  if  it  be 
thou,  withdraw  thy  glorious  light  that  we  may 
be  able  to  stand,  so  that  our  eyes  be  not  blinded. 
We  have  been  dismayed,  and  the  whole  world 
hath  been  dismayed,  by  the  greatness  of  the  light 
which  is  in  thee." 

Then  Jesus  drew  to  himself  the  glory  of  his 
He  draweth  light ;  and  when  this  was  done,  all  the 
untohim-  disciples  took  courage  and  came  to 
self*  Jesus,  and  cast  themselves  together  at 

his  feet  and  worshipped  him,  rejoicing  with  great 
joy.  They  said  unto  him:  " Master,  whither 
didst  thou  go  ?  or  on  what  ministry  wentest 
thou  ?  or  wherefore  are  all  these  confusions  and 
shakings  which  have  taken  place  ? " 

Then  Jesus,  the  compassionate,  said  unto  them : 
He  pro-  "Rejoice  and  be  glad  from  this  hour, 
teinhem      f°r  I  have  gone  to  the  regions  whence 

all  things.       i      came      fortlL        (g)    From      this     day 

forth,  therefore,  will  I  speak  with  you  freely, 
from  the  beginning  of  the  truth  unto  the  com- 
pletion thereof;  and  I  will  speak  to  you  face  to 
face  without  parable.  From  this  hour  will  I 
hide  nothing  from  you  of  the  things  which 
pertain  to  the  height,  and  of  those  of  the  region 
of  truth  ;  for  authority  hath  been  given  me  by 
the  ineffable  and  by  the  first  mystery  of  all 
mysteries  to  speak  to  you,  from  the  beginning 
to  the  end,  from  the  interiors  to  the  exteriors, 


FIRST   BOOK.  y 

and  from  the  exteriors  to  the  interiors. 
Hearken,  therefore,  that  I  may  tell  you  all 
things. 

"  It  came  to  pass,  as  I  was  sitting  a  little  re- 
moved from  you  on  the  Mount  of  Olives,  medi- 
tating on  the  duties  of  the  ministry  for  which  I 
was  sent,  which  they  said  was  completed,  and 
[how]  the  last  mystery  had  not  yet  sent  me  my 
vesture — it  is  the  four  and  twentieth  mystery 
from  the  interiors  to  the  exteriors,  of  those 
which  are  in  the  second  space  of  the  first  mys- 
tery, in  the  orders  of  that  space— it  came  to 
pass,  therefore,  when  I  understood  that  the  duty 
of  the  ministry  for  which  I  had  come  was  ful- 
filled, and  that  that  mystery  had  not  yet  sent 
me  my  vesture,  wThich  I  had  placed  in  it,  until 
its  time  should  be  fulfilled — I  was  meditating 
on  this  on  the  Mount  of  Olives,  a  little  removed 
from  you — it  came  to  pass,  when  the  sun  rose 
in  the  place  of  its  rising,  that  then  through  the 
first  mystery,  which  was  from  the  beginning,  on 
account  of  which  the  universe  hath  been  created, 
(10)  from  which  also  now  I  am  come,  now  and 
not  formerly  before  they  had  crucified  me  ;  it 
came  to  pass,  by  order  of  that  mystery, 

,  ,  .  r    , .    .  How  the 

that   this   vesture    ol   light    was    sent   vesture  of 
me,  which  he  had  given  me  from  the   sent  unto 
beginning,    and    which    I    had    placed 
in    the    last    mystery,    which    is    the    four    and 


10  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

twentieth  mystery,  from  the  interior  of  those 
which  are  in  the  orders  of  the  second  space  of 
the  first  mystery.  This  is  the  vesture,  then, 
which  I  had  left  in  the  last  mystery,  until  the 
time  should  be  fulfilled  when  I  should  take  it 
again;  and  should  begin  to  speak  to  the  human 
race,  and  reveal  to  them  all  things  from  the 
beginning  of  the  truth  to  its  completion,  and 
speak  to  them  from  the  interiors  of  the  interiors 
to  the  exteriors  of  the  exteriors,  and  from  the 
exteriors  of  the  exteriors  to  the  interiors  of  the 
interiors.  Rejoice,  therefore,  and  be  glad  and 
rejoice  more  than  greatly,  for  it  is  to  you  that  it 
hath  been  given,  that  I  first  speak  from  the 
beginning  of  the  truth  to  its  completion. 

"For  this  cause  have   I  chosen  you  from  the 
beginning  through  the  first   mystery. 

Of  the  souls  .    .  .     _     .         _ 

of  the  disci-  Rejoice,  therefore,  and  be  glad,  in  that 

pies  and  .  i  i     /       \    r 

their  incar-  when  1  came  into  the  world,  (11)  trom 
the  beginning,  I  brought  with  me 
twelve  powers,  as  I  told  you  from  the  begin- 
ning. I  took  them  from  the  hands  of  the 
twelve  saviours  of  the  treasure  of  light,  accord- 
ing to  the  command  of  the  first  mystery.  These 
powers,  therefore,  1  cast  into  the  wombs  of  your 
mothers,  when  I  came  into  the  world,  and  they 
are  those  which  are  in  your  bodies  this  day. 
For  these  powers  have  been  given  unto  you 
before  the  whole  world,  for  it  is  ye  who  are  to 


FIEST   BOOK.  11 

save  the  whole  world,  and  that  ye  may  be  able 
to  bear  the  threat  of  the  rulers  of  the  world, 
and  the  calamities  of  the  world,  and  their 
dangers,  and  all  the  persecutions  which  the 
rulers  of  the  height  must  bring  upon  you. 
Many  times  have  I  said  unto  you,  the  power  which 
is  in  you,  I  have  brought  it  from  the  twelve 
saviours  which  are  in  the  treasure  of  light.  For 
which  cause  I  said  unto  you  from  the  beginning 
that  ye  were  not  of  this  world.  And  I  also  am 
not  of  this  world,  for  all  men  who  are  of  this 
world  have  taken  their  soul  from  the  rulers  of 
the  aeons.  But  the  power  which  is  in  you  is 
from  me.  Ye  are  souls  which  pertain  to  the 
height,  which  I  have  brought  from  the  twelve 
saviours  of  the  treasure  of  light,  and  which  I 
have  received  as  a  share  of  my  power,  which  I 
received  from  the  beginning.  (12)  And  when 
I  set  forth  to  come  into  this  world,  I  passed 
through  the  midst  of  the  rulers  of  the  sphere  ; 
I  assumed  the  likeness  of  the  angel  Gabriel,  in 
order  that  the  rulers  of  the  aeons  might  not 
recognise  me,  but  think  that  I  was  the  angel 
Gabriel. 

"  It  came  to  pass,  when  I  had  passed  through 
the   midst  of  the  rulers  of  the  aeons,    0f  the  in_ 
that  I  looked  down   on   the   world   of  ofTohnThe 
men,   by   order  of  the  first  mystery ;    BaPtlst- 
I  found  Elizabeth,  mother  of  John  the  Baptist, 


12  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

before  she  had  conceived  him  ;  I  cast  into  her  a 
power  which  I  had  received  from  the  hand  of 
the  little  lao,  the  good,  who  is  in  the  midst, 
that  he  might  preach  before  me  and  prepare  my 
way,  and  baptise  in  the  water  of  the  remission 
of  sins.  This  power,  then,  is  in  the  body  of 
John. 

"  Moreover,  in  the  region  of  the  soul  of  the 
That  John  rulers,  destined  to  receive  it,  I  found 
Tforme?8  -  the  soul  of  the  prophet  Elias,  in  the 
birth.  aeons  of  the  sphere,  and  I  took  him, 

and  receiving  his  soul  also,  I  brought  it  to  the 
virgin  of  light,  and  she  gave  it  to  her  receivers  ; 
they  brought  it  to  the  sphere  of  the  rulers,  and 
cast  it  into  the  womb  of  Elizabeth.  Wherefore 
the  power  of  the  little  lao,  who  is  in  the  midst, 
and  the  soul  of  Elias  the  prophet,  are  united 
with  the  body  of  John  the  Baptist.  (13)  For 
this  cause  have  ye  been  in  doubt  aforetime, 
when  I  said  unto  you,  '  John  said,  I  am  not 
the  Christ '  :  and  ve  said  unto  me,  '  It  is  written 
in  the  Scripture,  that  when  the  Christ  shall 
come,  Elias  will  come  before  him,  and  prepare 
his  way.'  And  I,  when  ye  had  said  this  unto 
me,  replied  unto  you,  '  Elias  verily  is  come, 
and  hath  prepared  all  things,  according  as  it 
is  written  ;  and  they  have  done  unto  him  what- 
soever they  would.'  And  when  I  perceived  that 
ye  did  not  understand  that  I  had  spoken  con- 


FIEST   BOOK.  13 

cerning  the  soul  of  Elias  united  with  John  the 
Baptist,  I  answered  you  openly  and  face  to  face 
with  the  words,  '  If  ye  will  receive  it,  John  the 
Baptist  is  Elias  who,  I  said,  was  for  to  come.' ' 

And  Jesus  continued  his  conversation,  and 
said:  "It  came  to  pass,  after  these  of  his  own 
things,  that  I  looked  down  again  into  through*011 
the  world  of  men  ;  I  found  Mary,  who  Mary- 
is  called  my  mother,  after  the  material  body  ;  I 
spoke  to  her  also  in  the  form  of  Gabriel ;  and 
when  she  had  betaken  herself  into  the  height 
towards  me,  I  implanted  in  her  the  first  power 
which  I  had  received  from  the  hands  of  Barbelo, 
that  is  to  say,  the  body  which  I  bore  in  the 
height,  and  instead  of  the  soul,  I  implanted 
in  her  the  power  which  I  had  received  from 
the  hands  of  the  great  Sabaoth,  the  good,  (14) 
who  is  in  the  region  of  the  right. 

"  And  the  twelve  powers  of  the  twelve  saviours 
of  the  treasure  of  light,  which  I  had   More  con- 
received  from  the  twelve  ministers  of  Sj^ 
the  midst,   I   cast  into  the   sphere  of  S?7dSo? 
the    rulers ;    and   the    decans    of    the   ples- 
rulers,  with  their  workmen,  thought  that  they 
were  the  souls  of  the  rulers  ;  and  the  workmen 
brought  them,  and  I  bound  them  into  the  bodies 
of  your  mothers.     And  when  your  time  was  full, 
ye  were  brought  forth   into  the   world,  no  soul 
of  the  rulers  being  in  you.     Ye  have  received 


14  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

your  portion  from  the  power  which  the  last 
supporter  breathed  into  the  mixture,  which 
[power]  was  blended  with  all  the  invisibles  and 
rulers,  and  all  the  aeons.  Ouce  only  was  it  blended 
with  the  world  of  destruction,  which  is  the  mix- 
ture. This  [power]  I  brought  out  from  myself 
from  the  beginning ;  I  cast  it  into  the  first 
statute,  and  the  first  statute  cast  a  portion 
thereof  into  the  great  light,  and  the  great  light 
cast  a  portion  of  that  which  it  received  into  the 
five  supporters,  and  the  last  supporter  took  a 
portion  of  that  which  it  received,  and  cast  it 
into  the  mixture.  (15)  And  this  [power]  dwelleth 
in  all  those  who  dwell  in  the  mixture,  in  the 
manner  in  which  I  have  just  told  you." 

When  Jesus,  therefore,  had  said  these  things 
to    his    disciples    on    the    Mount    of 

Why  they  §  r 

should  re-     Olives,  he  continued   in  his  conversa- 

joice  that  t  ...  ^ 

the  time  of    tion  to  his  disciples,  and  said  :   "  Ke- 

his  investi-      .    .  . 

turehad  joice,  and  be  glad,  and  add  joy  to 
joy,  for  the  times  are  fulfilled  for  me 
to  put  on  my  vesture,  which  hath  been  prepared 
for  me  from  the  beginning ;  the  same  which  I 
laid  up  in  the  last  mystery,  until  the  time  of 
its  completion.  The  time  of  its  completion  is 
the  time  when  I  shall  receive  commandment 
from  the  first  mystery  to  speak  to  you  from 
the  beginning  of  the  truth  to  the  end  thereof, 
and  from  the  interiors  of  the  interiors,  for  the 


FIKST   BOOK.  15 

world  is  to  be  saved  by  you.  Kejoice,  therefore, 
and  be  glad,  for  ye  are  more  blessed  than  all 
men  who  are  on  the  earth,  for  it  is  ye  who  shall 
save  the  whole  world." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  finished 
speaking  these  things  to  his  disciples,  that  he 
again  continued  in  his  conversation,  and  said 
unto  them  :  "  Lo,  I  have  put  on  my  vesture, 
and  all  power  hath  been  given  me  by  the  first 
mystery.  Yet  a  little  while  and  I  will  tell  you 
the  mystery  of  the  pleroma  and  the  pleroma  of 
the  pleroma  ;  I  will  conceal  nothing  from  you 
from  this  hour,  but  in  perfectness  will  I  perfect 
you  in  the  whole  pleroma,  and  all  perfection, 
and  every  mystery,  (16)  which  things,  indeed, 
are  the  perfection  of  all  perfections,  the  pleroma 
of  all  pleromas,  and  the  gnosis  of  all  gnoses, 
which  are  in  my  vesture.  I  will  tell  you  all 
mysteries  from  the  exterior  of  the  exteriors,  to 
the  interior  of  the  interiors.  Hearken,  I  will 
tell  you  all  things  which  have  befallen  me. 

"  It  came  to  pass,  when  the  sun  had  risen  in 
the  regions  of  the   east,   that  a  great 

&  .  .  Themys- 

stream    of    light  descended   in   which   teryofthe 

five  words 

was  my  vesture,  the  same  which  I  had   on  the 
laid    up    in    the    four   and    twentieth 
mystery,   as    I    have   said   unto   you.       And    I 
found    a    mystery    in    my   vesture,    written    in 
these  five  words  which  pertain  to   the   height, 


16  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

zama  zama  ozza  rachama  ozai.     And  this  is 
the  interpretation  thereof: 

"  The  mystery  which  is  beyond  the  world, 
The  inter-  that  whereby  all  things  exist  :  It  is 
thereof.  all  evolution  and  all  involution  ;  it 
projected  all  emanations  and  all  things  therein. 
Because  of  it  all  mysteries  exist  and  all  their 
regions. 

"  '  Come  unto  us,  for  we  are  thy  fellow -mem- 
bers. We  are  all  one  with  thee.  We  are  one 
and  the  same,  and  thou  art  one  and  the 
same.  This  is  the  first  mystery,  (17)  which 
hath  existed  from  the  beginning  in  the  in- 
effable, before  it  came  forth ;  and  the  name 
thereof  is  all  of  us.  Now,  therefore,  we  all  live 
together  for  thee  at  the  last  limit,  which  also  is 
the  last  mystery  from  the  interior.  That  also  is 
a  part  of  us.  Now,  therefore,  we  have  sent  thee 
thy  vesture,  which,  indeed,  is  thine  from  the  be- 
ginning, which  thou  didst  leave  in  the  last  limit, 
which  also  is  the  last  mystery  from  the  interiors, 
until  its  time  should  be  fulfilled,  according  to 
the  commandment  of  the  first  mystery.  Lo,  its 
time  being  fulfilled,  I  will  give  it  thee. 

"  'Come  unto  us  for  we  all  stand  near  to  clothe 
The  three  thee  with  the  first  mystery  and  all  his 
light.  glory,  by  commandment  of  the  same, 

in  that  the  first  mystery  gave  us  two  vestures 
to   clothe  thee,   besides  the    one  we   have  sent 


FIRST   BOOK.  17 

thee,  since  thou  art  worthy  of  them,  and  art 
prior  to  us,  and  came  into  being  before  us. 
For  this  cause,  therefore,  the  first  mystery  hath 
sent  for  thee  through  us  the  mystery  of  all  his 
glory,  two  vestures. 

'"The  first  hath  in  it  the  whole  glory  of  all 
the  names  of  all  the  mysteries,  and  of  Thefirst 
all  the  emanations  of  the  orders  of  the   vesture- 
spaces  of  the  ineffable. 

(18)  "'And  the  second  vesture    hath    in   it 
the  whole  glory  of  the  name  of  all  the   The  secon<i 
mysteries,  and  of  all  the  emanations   vesture- 
which  are  in  the  orders  of  the  two  spaces  of  the 
first  mystery. 

"  '  And  in  this  [third]  vesture,  which  we  have 
now  sent  thee,  is  the  glory  of  the  The  third 
name  of  the  mystery,  the  revealer,  vesture- 
which  also  is  the  first  statute,  and  the  mystery 
of  the  five  impressions,  and  the  mystery  of  the 
great  legate  of  the  ineffable,  which  is  this 
great  light,  and  also  the  mystery  of  the  five 
leaders,  which  are  the  five  supporters.  There 
is  also  in  the  vesture  the  glory  of  the  name 
of  all  the  orders  of  the  emanations  of  the 
treasure  of  light,  with  their  saviours  and  the 
orders  of  their  orders,  to  wit,  the  seven  aniens, 
which  are  the  seven  voices,  and  the  five  trees 
and  the  three   amens,  and   the  saviour   of  the 

twins,   which  is   the   child    of  the    child ;    and 

2 


18  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

also  the  mystery  of  the  nine  guardians  of 
the  three  gates  of  the  treasure  of  light.  There 
is  also  therein  all  the  glory  of  every  name  which 
is  on  the  right,  and  of  all  those  which  are  in 
the  midst.  Moreover,  there  is  also  therein  all 
the  glory  of  the  great  invisible,  (19)  that  is  to 
say,  of  the  great  forefather,  and  all  the  mystery 
of  the  three  triple  powers,  and  the  mystery 
of  their  whole  region,  and  also  the  mystery  of 
all  their  invisibles  and  of  all  those  who  are  in 
the  thirteenth  seon,  and  the  name  of  the  twelve 
seons,  with  all  their  rulers,  all  their  archangels, 
all  their  angels,  and  all  who  are  in  the  twelve 
seons,  and  every  mystery  of  the  name  of  all 
those  who  are  in  the  [sphere  of]  fate,  and  in  all 
the  heavens,  and  the  whole  mystery  of  the  name 
of  those  in  the  spheres  and  their  firmaments,  and 
all  that  they  contain,  and  their  regions. 

"  '  Lo,  therefore,  we  have  sent  thee  this  ves- 
The  day  of    ture,    without    any    knowing    it    from 

"  Come 

unto  us."  the  first  statute  downwards,  because 
the  glory  of  its  light  was  hidden  in  it  [the 
first  statute],  and  the  spheres  with  all  their 
regions  from  the  first  statute  downwards  [knew 
it  not].  Make  haste,  therefore,  clothe  thyself 
with  this  vesture.  Come  unto  us  ;  for  ever, 
until  the  time  appointed  by  the  ineffable  was 
fulfilled,  have  we  been  in  need  of  thee,  to  clothe 
thee  with  two  of  the  vestures,  by  order  of  the 


FIRST   BOOK.  19 

first  mystery.  (20)  Lo,  then,  the  time  is  ful- 
filled. Come,  therefore,  to  us  quickly,  that  we 
may  put  them  on  thee,  until  thou  hast  accom- 
plished the  full  ministry  of  the  perfections  of 
the  first  mystery,  the  ministry  appointed  for 
thee  by  the  ineffable.  Come,  therefore,  to  us 
quickly,  in  order  that  we  may  clothe  thee,  ac- 
cording to  the  commandment  of  the  first  mys- 
tery ;  for  yet  a  little  while,  a  very  little  while, 
and  thou  shalt  come  to  us,  and  shalt  leave 
the  world.  Come,  therefore,  quickly,  that  thou 
mayest  receive  the  whole  glory,  the  glory  of  the 
first  mystery.' 

"  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  I  saw  the 
whole  mystery  of  those  words  in  the   Jesus 

putteth  on 

vesture  which  had  been  sent  me,  that   his  vesture. 
I  at  once  clothed  myself  therewith.     I  became 
exceedingly  radiant,  and  soared  into  the  height. 
"I  drew  nigh  to  the  gate  of  the  firmament, 
shining    exceedingly ;     there    was    no    He  enter- 

i        t    i        •  i  •   i      t  eth  the 

measure  to  the  light  in  which  1  was.  firmament. 
The  gates  of  the  firmament  were  shaken  one 
above  the  other  in  turn,  and  all  were  thrown 
open  together. 

"And  all  the  rulers,  all  the  powers,  and  all 
the  angels  therein,  were  at  once  thrown  into 
confusion  because  of  the  great  light  which  was  in 
me.  They  gazed  at  the  vesture  of  light  with 
which  I  was  clothed,  and  which  was  brilliantly 


20  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

shining  ;  they  saw  the  mystery  which  contained 
The  powers   their  names  ;  they  feared  exceedingly  ; 

ment'a^"  (21)  and  a11  the  bonds  with  whicn  they 

anTfaU  were  bound  were  loosed  ;  each  left  his 
down  and      rank  and  they  bowed  down  before  me, 

worship  7  J  ' 

him-  and    worshipped    me,    saying,     *  How 

hath  the  lord  of  the  pleroma  changed  us  without 
our  knowing  ? '  And  they  sang  together  to  the 
interior  of  the  interiors,  but  me  they  saw  not ;  but 
they  saw  only  the  light,  and  they  were  in  great 
fear,  and  were  exceedingly  troubled,  and  sent 
forth  their  song  to  the  interior  of  the  interiors. 

"And  having  left  that  region  behind  me,  I 
He  enter-  came  unto  the  first  sphere,  shining 
first  sphere,  exceedingly,  far  more  brightly  than  1 
shone  in  the  firmament,  forty  and  nine  times. 
It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  I  had  come  to 
the  gate  of  the  first  sphere,  that  its  gates  were 
shaken,  and  opened  of  themselves  all  together. 

"  I  entered  into  the  mansions  of  that  sphere, 
The  powers  shining  exceedingly ;  there  was  no 
sphered  measure  to  the  light  that  was  in  me. 
andfcil  ^nd  a^  tne  rulers>  with  all  those  who 
down  and      were  m  that  sphere,  were  in  confusion 

worship  r 

him-  one  with  another ;  they  saw  the  great 

light  that  was  in  me,  and  they  gazed  upon  my 
vesture ;  they  saw  in  it  the  mystery  of  their 
name,  and  were  more  and  more  distressed.  And 
they  were  in  great  fear,  saying,  '  How  hath  the 


FIRST  BOOK.  21 

lord  of  the  pleroma  changed  us  without  our 
knowing  V  (22)  And  all  their  bonds  were  un- 
loosed, as  well  as  their  regions  and  their  orders ; 
and  each  abandoned  his  order,  they  bowed  them- 
selves all  together,  they  worshipped  before  me  or 
before  my  vesture,  and  they  all  sang  together  to 
the  interior  of  the  interiors,  being  in  great  fear 
and  great  confusion. 

"  And  having  left  that  region  behind  me,   I 
came  unto    the    second   sphere,  which   He  enter. 
is  the  fate.     All  its  gates  were  thrown    second 
into   confusion,  and   opened  one   after   sPhere- 
another  in  turn  ;  and  I  entered  into  the  man- 
sions of  the  fate,  shining  exceedingly  ;  there  was 
no  measure  to  the  light  that  was  in  me,  for  I 
shone  in  the  fate  more  than  in  the  sphere  forty 
and  nine  times. 

"  And  all  the  rulers  and  all  those  who  were  in 
the  fate  were  thrown  into  confusion ;   The  powers 
they  fell    on    one    another,  they  were   °n^phere 
in  exceeding  great  fear  on  seeing  the   anTfaiT^' 
great  light  that  was  in  me.    They  gazed   down,  ^nd 

o  e>  J   o  worship 

on  my  shining  vesture,  they  saw  the  him- 
mystery  of  their  names  on  my  vesture,  and  were 
more  and  more  confused,  and  were  in  great  fear, 
saying,  '  How  hath  the  lord  of  the  pleroma 
changed  us  without  our  knowing?'  And  all 
the  bonds  of  their  regions,  of  their  orders,  and 
of   their   mansions    were   unloosed ;    they    drew 


22  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

nigh  all  together,  they  bowed  themselves,  they 
worshipped  before  me,  and  sang  all  together  to 
the  interior  of  the  interiors,  (23)  being  in  great 
fear  and  great  confusion. 

"And  having  left  that  region  behind  me,  I 
Heentereth  ascended  to  the  great  aeons  of  the 
the  aeons.  rulers?  J  drew  nigh  to  their  veils  and 
their  gates,  shining  exceedingly ;  there  was  no 
measure  to  the  light  which  was  in  me.  It  came 
to  pass  when  I  came  unto  the  twelve  330ns,  that 
their  veils  and  their  gates  were  shaken  one  on 
another ;  their  veils  were  drawn  aside  of  their 
own  accord,  and  their  gates  opened  of  them- 
selves. And  I  entered  into  the  aeons,  shining 
exceedingly ;  there  was  no  measure  to  the  light 
that  was  in  me,  which  was  brighter  than  the 
light  with  which  I  shone  in  the  regions  of  the 
fate,  forty  and  nine  times. 

"  And  all  the  angels  of  the  aeons,  their  arch- 
angels,  their   rulers,   their  gods,  their 

The  powers  &  ° 

of  the  aeons   lords,  their  authorities,    their   tyrants, 

are  amazed,  _  * 

and  fail        their  powers,  their  sparks,  their  light- 
down  and  ,  ,  ,  .... 

worship        givers,  their  unpaired,  their  invisibles, 

him.  .  .  . 

their  forefathers,  and  their  triple 
powers,  saw  me,  shining  exceedingly ;  there  was 
no  measure  to  the  light  which  was  in  me.  They 
were  thrown  into  confusion  the  one  on  the  other  ; 
great  fear  fell  upon  them  when  they  saw  the 
great  light  that  was  in  me.       And  their  great 


FIRST   BOOK.  23 

confusion  (24)  and  great  fear  reached  to  the 
region  of  the  great  invisible  forefather,  and  of 
the  three  great  triple  powers.  Because  of  the 
great  fear  of  their  confusion,  the  great  forefather 
himself,  and  the  three  triple  powers,  began  to 
run  hither  and  thither  in  their  region,  and  they 
could  not  close  all  their  regions  because  of  the 
great  fear  in  which  they  were.  They  threw  into 
confusion  all  their  aeons  together,  with  all  their 
spheres  and  orderings,  fearing  and  being  greatly 
troubled  because  of  the  great  light  that  was  in 
me — far  different  from  what  it  was  when  I  was 
on  the  earth  of  human  kind,  when  my  shining 
vesture  came  upon  me,  for  the  earth  could  not 
have  borne  the  light  such  as  it  was  in  reality, 
else  would  the  world  be  resolved  and  all  upon  it 
at  the  same  time.  But  the  light  which  was  in 
me  in  the  twelve  aeons  was  .  .  .  myriad, 
and  seven  thousand  and  eight  hundred  times 
greater  than  when  I  was  in  the  world  among 
you. 

"  It  came  to   pass,  therefore,  when  all  those 
who  are  in  the  twelve  aeons  had  seen    Adamas 
the  great  light  which  was  in  me,  that   tyrants* 
they    were   all  thrown  into  confusion   figh*  ,  ., 

J  against  the 

one  on  another,  and  ran  from  one  side   llght- 
to   the    other  in  the  aeons ;    and  all  the  aeons, 
with    all    their  regions    and   all   their  ordering, 
were    shaken    on    account    of    the    great    fear 


24  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

which  came  upon  them,  (25)  because  they 
knew  not  the  mystery  which  had  taken  place. 
And  Adamas,  the  great  tyrant,  and  all  the 
tyrants  which  are  in  all  the  aeons,  began  to  fight 
in  vain  against  the  light,  and  they  knew  not 
with  what  they  fought,  for  they  saw  nothing  be- 
yond the  exceeding  great  light.  It  came  to  pass, 
when  they  fought  against  the  light,  that  they 
expended  their  strength  one  against  the  other, 
they  fell  down  in  the  aeons,  they  became  as  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth  who  are  dead,  and  who 
have  no  breath  in  them. 

"  And  I  took  from  all  of  them  a  third  of  their 
power,  in   order  that  they  should  no 

Hetaketh      r  .  ... 

from  them    more  prevail  in  their  evil  doings  ;  and 

a  third  of 

their  in  order  that,  if  the  men  who  are  in 

the  world  should  invoke  them  in 
their  mysteries  which  the  transgressing  angels 
brought  down  from  above — that  is  to  say,  their 
magic  rites — in  order  that,  therefore,  if  they 
should  be  invoked  in  evil  practices,  they  should 
not  accomplish  them. 

"  And  the  fate  and  sphere  of  which  they  are 

the  lords    I    changed,  and    I    brought 

changeth      it  to  pass  that   for   six  months  they 

the  motion 

of  their        should   turn   to    the   left   and    accom- 
plish   their    influences,    and    for    six 
months  turn  to  the  right  and  accomplish  their 
influences.    For  by  order  of  the  first  statute,  and 


FIRST   BOOK.  25 

by  order  of  the  first  mystery,  (26)  leou,  the  over- 
seer of  the  light,  had  placed  them  facing  the  left 
for  all  time,  accomplishing  their  influences  and 
actions.  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  that  when 
I  had  entered  into  their  regions,  they  rebelled 
and  fought  against  the  light.  I  took  from  them 
the  third  part  of  their  power,  in  order  that  they 
should  not  accomplish  their  evil  actions.  And 
the  fate  and  sphere  over  which  they  rule  I 
changed,  and  set  them  facing  the  left  for  six 
months,  accomplishing  their  influences,  and  set 
them  to  turn  six  months  to  the  right,  accom- 
plishing their  influences." 

And  when  he  had  spoken  these  things  unto 
his  disciples,  he  said  unto  them  :  "  He  that  hath 
ears  to  hear,  let  him  hear." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Mary  had  heard  the 
words  which  the  saviour  said,  that  she  gazed, 
as  one  inspired,  into  the  air  for  the  space  of  an 
hour.  She  said  unto  him  :  "  Master,  give  com- 
mandment unto  me  to  speak  freely." 

And  Jesus,  the  compassionate,  answered  and 
said  unto  Mary  :   "  Speak  freely,  Mary, 
thou  blessed  one,  whom  I  will  perfect   asketh  and 

receiveth 

in  all  the  mysteries  of  the  dwellers  on    permission 
high,  thou,  whose  heart  is  right  for  the 
kingdom    of    the    heavens    more    than    all   thy 
brethren." 

Then    said    Mary    to   the   saviour :    "  Master, 


26  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

the  word  that  thou  hast  spoken,  to  wit,  (27) 
'  he  that  hath  ears  to  hear,  let  him  hear,'  thou 
hast  said  it  unto  us,  in  order  that  we  may 
understand  the  word  which  thou  hast  spoken. 
Give  ear,  therefore,  0  Master,  that  I  may 
speak  freely. 

"  The  word  which  thou  hast  spoken,  to  wit, 
'  I     changed     their     fate     and     their 

Mary  inter- 
preted the    spheres  over  which  they  rule,  in  order 

same  from  ■  *      1  n  • 

the  words  that,  if  the  race  of  men  should  invoke 
them,  in  the  mysteries  which  the 
transgressing  angels  taught  them  for  the  accom- 
plishing of  their  evil  deeds,  and  all  that  is  un- 
lawful in  the  mystery  of  their  magic ' — in  order 
[then],  that  they  might  no  more  from  this  hour 
accomplish  their  impious  works,  (for  thou  hast 
taken  from  them  their  power,  and  their  or- 
dainers  of  the  hour,  and  diviners,  and  those  who 
teach  the  men  of  the  world  all  that  shall  come 
to  pass,)  in  order  that  they  should  no  more  from 
this  hour  have  a  mind  for  teaching  them  what 
will  come  to  pass,  (for  thou  hast  changed  their 
revolution,  and  thou  hast  made  them  turn  to 
the  left  for  six  months,  accomplishing  their 
influences,  and  thou  hast  made  them  face  to 
the  right  for  the  six  remaining  months,  accom- 
plishing their  influences) — concerning  this  word, 
0  Master,  the  power  which  was  in  Isaiah,  the 
prophet,   spake  as  follows,  and  delivered  it  in  a 


FIRST   BOOK.  27 

spiritual  parable,  at  the  time  when  he  spake  of 
the  vision  of  Egypt,  saying,  'Where,  then,  0 
Egypt,  where  are  thy  diviners  and  ordainers  of 
the  hour,  (28)  and  those  whom  they  evoke  from 
the  earth,  and  those  whom  they  evoke  from 
themselves  ?  Let  them  show  thee  from  this 
hour  the  deeds  which  the  lord  Sabaoth  shall 
do!' 

"  Thus  then  the  power  which  was  in  Isaiah, 
the  prophet,  prophesied  before  thy  coming ;  it 
prophesied  concerning  thee  that  thou  shouldst 
take  away  the  power  of  the  rulers  of  the  aeons  ; 
that  thou  shouldst  change  their  sphere  and 
their  fate,  in  order  that  they  might  know  no- 
thing from  henceforth.  This  is  why  it  said, 
'  Ye  shall  know  nothing  of  that  which  the  lord 
Sabaoth  shall  do ' ;  that  is  to  say,  none  of  the 
rulers  shall  know  what  thou  wilt  do  unto  them 
henceforth  from  this  hour ;  that  is  to  say,  with 
'  Egypt,'  for  they  are  the  inefficacious  matter. 
The  power,  therefore,  which  was  in  the  prophet 
Isaiah,  prophesied  concerning  thee  aforetime, 
saying,  '  Henceforth,  from  this  hour,  ye  shall 
not  know  what  the  lord  Sabaoth  shall  do  unto 
them,'  because  of  the  light-power  which  thou 
didst  receive  from  the  hand  of  Sabaoth,  the 
good,  who  is  in  the  region  of  the  right,  the 
power  which  is  in  thy  material  body  to-day.  For 
this  cause,  therefore,  0  Jesus,  my  master,  thou 


28  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

hast  said  unto  us,  'He  that  hath  ears  to  hear,  let 
him  hear,'  since  thou  wouldst  know  whose  heart 
is  earnestly  set  on  the  kingdom  of  the  heavens." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Mary  had  finished 
saying  these  things,  that  Jesus  said  unto  her : 
"  Well  said,  Mary,  since  thou  art  blessed  before 
all  women  who  are  on  the  earth,  (29)  for  thou 
shalt  be  the  pleroma  of  all  pleromas,  and  the 
perfection  of  all  perfections." 

When  Mary  heard  the  saviour  speak  these 
Jesus  com-  words,  she  rejoiced  greatly,  and  came 
Mary et she  ^°  Jesus>  anQl-  bowed  herself  before  him, 
f  uestioneth  anc^  worshipped  his  feet,  and  said  unto 
him  on  the    nim  .  tt  ]\/[aster   give  ear  unto  me,  that 

changing  of  '   ° 

the  spheres,  j  mav  question  thee  on  this  matter, 
before  that  thou  tellest  us  the  regions  whither 
thou  hast  gone." 

And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  Mary : 
"  Speak  freely,  and  fear  not.  All  things  thou 
seekest,  I  will  reveal  unto  thee." 

Mary  said:  "Will  all  men  who  know  the 
mystery  of  the  magic  of  all  the  rulers  of  all  the 
seons  of  the  fate,  and  of  those  of  the  sphere,  in 
the  way  in  which  the  transgressing  angels  have 
taught  them ;  if  they  invoke  them  in  their 
mysteries,  that  is  to  say,  in  their  evil  magic 
rites,  to  the  hindering  of  good  deeds — will  they 
accomplish  them,  henceforth  from  this  hour,  or 
not  ? " 


FIRST    BOOK.  29 

And  Jesus   answered   and   said  unto   Maiy : 
"They  will    not   accomplish  them    as   jesusex. 
they  accomplished  them  from  the  be-   ^therhthe 
ginning,  for  I  have  taken  from  them   of^rsion 
the   third  of  their   power ;    but    they   sPheres- 
will  make  use  of  those  who  know  the  mysteries 
of  the  magic  of  the  thirteenth  seon  ;   (30)  they 
will   accomplish    them    perfectly   and   at    their 
ease,  for  I  have  not  taken  away  the  power  in 
that  region,  according  to  the  command  of  the 
first  mystery." 

It  eame  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  finished 
saying  these  words,  that  Mary  insisted  further, 
and  said :  "  Master,  surely  the  ordainers  of  the 
hour,  and  diviners,  will  no  more  tell  men  what 
will  come  to  pass,  henceforth  from  this  hour  ? " 

But  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
"  If  the  ordainers  of  the  hour  chance  upon  the 
fate,  and  the  sphere,  turning  towards  the  left, 
according  to  their  first  emanation,  their  words 
shall  come  to  pass,  and  they  will  say  what  is 
to  take  place ;  but  if  they  chance  on  the  fate,  or 
the  sphere,  turning  to  the  right,  they  cannot 
obtain  any  truth,  since  I  have  changed  their 
influences,  their  four  angles,  their  three  angles, 
and  their  eight  configurations ;  for  originally 
their  influences  were  constant,  then  when  they 
turned  to  the  left,  as  well  as  their  four  angles, 
their  three   angles,  and   their  eight   configura- 


30  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

tions  ;   but  now  that  I  have  made  them  turn  to 
the  left  for  six  months  and  turn  to  the  right  for 
six    months,    he    who,    verily,    shall    find    their 
numbering    from    the    time    when    I    changed 
them,  and  when   I  set  them  for  six  months  to 
face   their   left   hand,    and    for    six    months    to 
face    their    right    hand    course,    (31)    he    who, 
verily,   shall    thus  observe    them,   will  discover 
their   influences  with    certainty ;    he  will   fore- 
tell all  that  a  man  shall  do.     In  the  same  way, 
also,  the  diviners,  if  they  invoke  the  name  of 
the  rulers,  if  they  meet  with  them  facing  the  left, 
all  things  which  they  shall   ask  of  their  decans, 
the  latter  will  tell  them  with  accuracy.     But  if 
the    diviners   invoke   their   names  at  the    time 
when  their  revolution  is  to  the  right,  they  will 
not  give  ear  unto  them,  because  they  are  facing 
in   another  way  from  the  first  figure  in  which 
Ieou  had  placed  them  ;  for  other  are  their  names 
when  they  turn  to  the  left,  and  other  are  their 
names  when  they  turn  to  the  right ;  and  if  they 
are  invoked  when  they  turn  to  the   right,  the 
truth   will  not  be  obtained,   but  confusion  will 
seize  upon  them,  and  with  threatening  they  will 
threaten   them.       Those,  therefore,   who  do  not 
know  their  revolution,  when   they  turn  to  the 
right,  their  three  angles,  and  their  four  angles, 
and  all  their  configurations,  will  find  no  truth, 
but  will  be   greatly  confused,   and    will   be   in 


FIEST   BOOK.  31 

great  error,  because  the  operations  which  they 
were  accustomed  formerly  to  effect  in  their 
four  angles,  at  the  time  when  they  turned  to 
the  left,  and  in  their  three  angles,  and  in  their 
eight  configurations,  the  operations  in  which 
they  were  constant,  at  the  time  when  they 
turned  to  the  left — these  I  have  now  changed, 
and  I  have  caused  them  to  make  all  their  con- 
figurations turning  to  the  right  for  six  months, 
in  order  that  they  may  be  confused  in  all  their 
extent ;  (32)  on  the  other  hand,  I  have  made 
them  turn  to  the  left  for  six  months,  accom- 
plishing the  actions  of  their  influences  and  of 
all  their  configurations,  in  order  that  they  may 
be  thrown  into  confusion,  and  wander  in  error 
— the  rulers  who  are  in  the  aeons,  in  their 
spheres,  in  their  heavens,  and  in  all  their 
regions,  so  that  they  may  not,  even  them- 
selves, understand  their  path." 

It  came   to  pass,  that  when  Jesus  had   said 
these  words — Philip  was  sitting  writ-    Philip 

-  .       questioneth 

mg  all  the  words  that  Jesus  spake — it  Jesus. 
came  to  pass,  therefore,  after  this,  that  Philip 
drew  nigh,  bowed  himself,  and  worshipped  the 
feet  of  Jesus,  saying :  "  Master  and  saviour, 
grant  me  permission  to  speak  before  thee  and 
to  question  thee  on  this  word,  before  that  thou 
tellest  us  of  the  regions  whither  thou  didst  go 
for  thy  ministry." 


32  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

The  saviour,  the  compassionate,  answered  and 
said  unto  Philip  :  "  Permission  is  given  thee  to 
speak  what  thou  wilt." 

And  Philip  answered  and  said  unto  Jesus  : 
"  Master,  on  account  of  what  mystery  hast  thou 
changed  the  manner  in  which  were  bound  the 
rulers,  their  aeons,  and  their  fate,  their  sphere, 
and  all  their  regions ;  and  why  hast  thou 
plunged  them  into  dire  confusion  in  their  path ; 
and  why  do  they  wander  in  their  course  ?  Hast 
thou  done  this  unto  them  for  the  salvation  of 
the  world,  or  hast  thou  not  ?  " 

And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  Philip, 
Why  the  and  to  all  the  disciples  together:  (33) 
E^wJ?6    "I  have   changed    their  path  for  the 

seons  was  &  Jr 

changed.  salvation  of  all  souls.  Amen,  amen,  I 
say  unto  you,  if  I  had  not  changed  their  path, 
they  would  have  destroyed  a  host  of  souls,  and 
a  long  period  would  have  elapsed  before  the 
rulers  of  the  aeons  would  have  been  dissolved, 
together  with  the  rulers  of  the  fate  and  of 
the  sphere,  of  all  their  regions,  and  of  all 
their  heavens,  with  those  of  all  their  aeons ; 
and  the  souls  would  have  continued  without 
this  region  a  long  period  of  time,  and  the 
number  of  perfected  souls  would  have  been 
kept  back  from  its  accomplishment,  of  those 
souls  which  shall  be  counted  in  the  heritage 
of  the  height,  by  means  of  the  mysteries,  and 


FIRST   BOOK.  33 

shall  dwell  in  the  treasure  of  light.  For  this 
cause,  therefore,  I  changed  their  path  that  they 
might  be  disturbed  and  thrown  into  confusion, 
so  that  they  might  lose  their  power,  which  is 
in  the  matter  of  their  world,  which  they  make 
into  souls,  in  order  that  they  might  be  quickly 
purified  ;  that  those  who  are  to  be  saved,  they 
and  all  their  power,  might  be  carried  on  high, 
while  those  who  are  not  to  be  saved,  might  be 
quickly  resolved." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  said 
these    things   unto  his  disciples,   that 

.  t  Mary  ques- 

Mary,  the  fair  in  speech  and  the  tionethhim 
blessed  one,  drew  nigh,  she  bowed 
herself  at  the  feet  of  Jesus,  saying  :  (34) 
"  Master,  suffer  me  to  speak  in  thy  presence, 
and  be  not  wroth  with  me,  if  I  distress  thee 
with  frequent  questioning." 

The  saviour  answered  with  compassion,  and 
said  unto  Mary :  "  Speak  the  word  thou  desirest, 
and  I  will  explain  it  to  thee  in  all  freedom." 

Mary  answered  and  said  unto  Jesus  :  "  Master, 
how  would  the  souls  have  delayed  outside  this 
region;  and  how  will  they  be  speedily  purified?" 

And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  Mary : 
"  Well  said,  Mary;  thou  questionest  fairly  with 
a  fair  question,  and  thou  approachest  every- 
thing   with    diligence    and    precision.       Now, 

therefore,    henceforth    from    this    hour,    I    will 

3 


34  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

conceal  nothing  from  you,  but  I  will  reveal 
everything  unto  you  with  certainty  and  all 
freedom.  Hearken,  then,  Mary,  and  ye  all,  my 
disciples,  give  ear.  Before  I  had  published  [the 
tidings]  to  all  the  rulers  of  the  aeons,  to  all  the 
rulers  of  the  fate  and  of  the  sphere,  they  were 
all  bound  in  their  bonds,  in  their  spheres,  and 
in  their  seals,  as  Ieou,  the  overseer  of  the  light, 
had  bound  them  from  the  beginning  ;  each  of 
them  remained  in  his  order,  and  each  of  them 
went  in  his  course,  as  Ieou,  the  overseer  of  the 
light,  had   placed   them.      And   when 

The  coming  . 

ofMeichise-  the  time  of  the  number  of  Melchise- 
dec.  the  great  receiver  of  the  light, 
had  come,  he  came  into  the  midst  of  the 
aeons  and  of  all  the  .  rulers,  (35)  bound  in 
the  sphere  and  in  the  fate  ;  he  took  away  the 
bright  light  of  all  the  rulers  of  the  aeons,  and 
of  all  the  rulers  of  the  fate,  and  also  of  those 
of  the  sphere — for  he  took  away  that  which 
troubled  them — and  he  roused  up  the  caretaker 
who  was  over  them,  to  make  their  circles  turn 
swiftly,  and  he  took  away  the  power  which  was 
in  them,  the  breath  of  their  mouth,  the  tears  of 
their  eyes,  and  the  sweat  of  their  bodies. 

"  And  Melchisedec,  the  receiver  of  light,  puri- 
Of  the  ^ed  all  these  powers,  in  order  to  carry 

onhetouis   their  %nt  mto  tne  treasure  of  light, 
of  men.        while  the  workmen   of  all   the  rulers 


FIEST   BOOK.  35 

gathered  together  all  their  matter,  and  the 
workmen  of  all  the  rulers  of  the  fate,  with 
the  rulers  of  the  sphere,  they  who  are  be- 
neath the  aeons,  took  it  to  make  therefrom  the 
souls  of  men,  of  cattle,  of  reptiles,  of  beasts,  or 
of  birds,  and  send  them  into  the  world  of  men. 
The  receivers  of  the  sun  and  the  receivers  of  the 
moon  also,  having  observed  the  heaven,  and 
having  seen  the  configurations  of  the  paths  of 
the  aeons,  and  the  configurations  of  the  fate, 
and  those  of  the  sphere,  then  took  from  them 
the  power  of  the  light,  and  the  receivers  pre- 
pared to  set  it  apart,  (36)  until  they  should  hand 
it  over  to  the  receivers  of  Melchisedec,  the  puri- 
fier of  light ;  and  their  material  purgation  they 
carried  into  the  sphere,  which  is  below  the  aeons, 
that  they  might  make  thence  the  souls  of  men, 
and  make  also  the  souls  of  reptiles,  or  of  cattle,  or 
of  beasts,  or  of  birds,  according  to  the  cycle  of 
the  rulers  of  this  sphere,  and  according  to  all  the 
configurations  of  its  revolution,  in  order  to  cast 
them  into  this  world  of  men,  so  that  they 
might  be  souls  in  this  region,  as  I  have  just 
told  you. 

"  These  things  they  accomplished  persever- 
ingly,  before  their  power  diminished  in  them 
and  they  became  feeble,  without  energy,  and 
powerless.  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  that 
when   they   were    without    power,    when    their 


36  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

power  began  to  diminish  in  them,  and  they 
became  feeble  in  their  power,  that  the  light  which 
was  in  their  region,  ceased,  their  kingdom  was 
dissolved,  and  all  quickly  passed  through  it ;  it 
came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  they  began  to 
understand  these  things  in  the  course  of  time, 
and  when  the  number  of  the  reckoning  of 
Melchisedec,  the  receiver,  was  accomplished, 
that  he  came  again,  he  entered  into  the  midst 
of  the  rulers  of  all  the  aeons,  and  into  the  midst 
of  all  the  rulers  of  the  fate,  as  well  as  of  those  of 
the  sphere,  and  he  threw  them  into  confusion, 
and  caused  their  circles  to  be  quickly  abandoned. 
(37)  And  forthwith  they  were  constrained,  and 
cast  forth  their  power  from  themselves  by  the 
breath  of  their  mouth,  by  the  tears  of  their  eyes 
and  the  sweat  of  their  bodies. 

"  And  Melchisedec,  the  receiver  of  light,  puri- 
The  rulers  fied  them,  as  he  had  constantly  done  ; 
matter,  so      he  carried  their  light  into  the  treasure 

that  souls  ptij.  i  j.j.1  j.±.  i* 

may  not  be  °*  light ;  and  as  to  the  matter  ot  pur- 
fabncated.     ga^0I1)  aii  the  ruiers  0f  the  aeons,  the 

rulers  of  the  fate,  and  those  of  the  sphere,  sur- 
rounded it  and  devoured  it.  They  did  not  let  it 
go,  to  become  souls  in  the  world,  for  they  had 
devoured  their  matter,  so  that  they  might  not 
become  without  power,  without  energy,  and 
that  their  power  might  not  cease  to  be  in  them, 
and  their  kingdom  might  not  be  dissolved ;  but 


FIRST   BOOK.  37 

they  devoured  it,  in  order  that  they  might  not 
be  destroyed,  but  that  they  might  linger,  and 
cause  a  long  delay  to  the  completion  of  the 
number  of  perfected  souls,  who  shall  dwell  in 
the  treasure  of  light. 

"  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  as  the  rulers  of 
the  seons,  and  those  of  the  fate,  with  those  of 
the  sphere,  persevered  in  so  doing,  in  turning 
on  themselves,  in  devouring  the  purgation  of 
their  matter,  and  in  preventing  the  birth  of  souls 
into  the  world  of  men,  in  order  that  they  might 
be  kings  for  a  longer  period,  and  that  the  powers, 
which  are  the  powers  in  them,  might  be  for  a 
long  time  excluded  from  this  world — they  con- 
tinued to  do  this  persistently  for  two  cycles — it 
came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  I  set  forth  to  ac- 
complish the  ministry,  (38)  to  which  I  had  been 
called  by  commandment  of  the  first  mystery, 
that  I  passed  through  the  midst  of  the  tyrants 
of  the  rulers  of  the  twelve  aeons,  my  vesture  of 
light  being  on  me,  and  shining  exceedingly, 
there  being  no  measure  to  the  light  which  was 
in  me. 

"  It    came    to    pass,    therefore,    when    these 
tyrants  had  seen  the  great  light  which   Adamasand 
was  in   me,   that   great   Adamas,   the   batti/™11 
tyrant,    and    all    the    tyrants    of    the   nfht^es- e 
twelve    aeons,     al]     began    to    battle 


ture. 


against     the     light    of    my    vesture,    desiring 


38  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

to  keep  it  with  them,  in  order  to  remain 
the  longer  in  their  kingdom.  And  this  they 
did,  not  knowing  then  against  whom  they 
fought. 

"  Then,    when    they    had    rebelled,    fighting 
against  the  light,  then,  by  command- 

Jesus  &  &      '  '      .7 

takethfrom   ment  of  the  first  mystery,  I  changed 

them  a  J  .  & 

third  of        the  path    and    course    of  their   aeons, 

their  r  . 

power,  and  the  path  of  their  fate  and  of  their 
their  sphere ;  I  caused  them  to  face  for  six 

months  their  three  angles  to  the  left, 
their  four  angles,  and  those  in  front  of  them, 
and  their  eight  configurations,  as  they  had 
formerly  been ;  but  their  manner  of  turning,  and 
their  manner  of  facing,  I  changed  to  another  order, 
and  caused  them  for  the  other  six  months  to  face 
the  actions  of  their  influences  by  the  four 
angles  of  the  right,  and  their  three  angles,  and 
by  them  which  are  before  them,  and  by  their 
eight  configurations.  And  I  caused  them  to  be 
in  great  confusion,  (39)  and  to  wander  in  great 
error,  the  rulers  of  the  seons,  and  all  the  rulers 
of  the  fate,  with  those  of  the  sphere,  and  I 
greatly  distressed  them.  And  from  that  hour, 
they  have  not  had  the  power  to  turn  towards  the 
purgation  of  their  matter  to  devour  it,  in  order 
that  their  regions  should  endure  permanently, 
and  they  should  still  reign  for  a  long 
period. 


FIRST   BOOK.  39 

"  But  when  I  had  taken  away  the  third  part 
of  their  power,  I  changed  their  re-  They  no 
volution,  so  that  for  a  period  they  thrower 
faced  the  left,  and  for  another  period  jngthek" 
they  faced  the  right ;  I  changed  the  matter- 
whole  of  their  path  and  the  whole  of  their 
course,  and  I  caused  the  path  of  their  course  to 
be  hastened,  so  that  they  might  be  quickly 
purified,  and  they  might  speedily  rise.  And  I 
shortened  their  circles,  and  I  caused  their  path 
to  be  lightened,  and  they  were  greatly  hurried, 
and  were  thrown  into  confusion  in  their  path  ; 
and  from  that  hour,  they  have  no  more  had  the 
power  of  devouring  the  matter  of  the  purgation 
of  the  brilliancy  of  their  light.  Moreover,  their 
times  and  their  periods  were  shortened,  in  order 
that  the  perfect  number  of  souls  who  shall  re- 
ceive the  mysteries,  and  dwell  in  the  treasure  of 
light,  should  be  speedily  completed.  For  had  I 
not  changed  their  course,  had  I  not  shortened 
their  times,  they  would  not  have  permitted  any 
soul  to  come  into  the  world,  because  of  the  matter 
of  their  purgation,  which  they  devoured,  (40) 
and  they  would  have  destroyed  a  host  of  souls. 
For  this  cause  I  said  unto  you  before,  '  I  have 
shortened  the  times  because  of  my  elect,'  for 
there  would  not  have  been  a  soul  that  could 
have  been  saved,  if  I  had  not  shortened  the 
times  and  the  periods,  because   of  the  perfect 


40  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

number  of  souls  who  shall  receive  the  mysteries, 
that  is  to  say,  the  *  elect ' ;  and  had  I  not 
shortened  their  times,  there  would  not  have 
been  a  single  material  soul  saved,  but  they 
would  have  perished  in  the  fire  which  is  in  the 
flesh  of  the  rulers.  Such,  then,  is  the  matter  on 
which  thou  hast  questioned  me  straitly." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  finished  speak- 
ing these  things  unto  his  disciples,  that  they 
bowed  themselves  together,  and  worshipped 
him,  saying :  "  Blessed  are  we  among  all  men, 
for  unto  us  thou  hast  revealed  these  sublime 
immensities." 

And  Jesus  continued  in  his  conversation,  and 
The  powers  sa^  unto  his  disciples  :  "  Give  ear  and 
Hght-ves?  hearken  concerning  the  things  which  be- 
ture.  feu  me  amid  the  mlers  of  the  twelve 

aeons,  amid  all  their  rulers,  their  lords,  their 
authorities,  their  angels,  and  their  archangels. 
When,  then,  they  had  seen  the  vesture  of  light 
which  was  on  me,  they  and  their  unpaired,  each 
of  them,  saw  the  mystery  of  their  name,  which 
was  in  my  vesture  of  light,  with  which  I  was 
clothed  ;  (41)  they  bowed  themselves  together, 
they  adored  the  vesture  of  light,  which  was  on  me, 
and  cried  out  all  together  saying,  '  How  hath  the 
lord  of  the  pleroma  changed  us  without  our  know- 
ing?' And  they  all  sang  together  to  the  interior 
of  the  interiors.    And  all  their  triple  powers,  their 


FIRST   BOOK.  41 

great  forefathers,  their  ungenerated,  their  self- 
generated,  their  generated,  their  gods,  their 
sparks,  their  light-bearers,  in  a  word,  all  their 
great  ones,  saw  the  tyrants  of  their  region  with 
their  power  diminished  in  them,  and  become 
feeble ;  and  they  also  were  in  great  and  bound- 
less fear,  and  they  saw  the  mystery  of  their 
name  in  my  vesture,  and  they  strove  to  draw 
nigh  to  adore  the  mystery  of  their  name,  which 
was  in  my  vesture,  but  they  could  not  because 
of  the  great  light  that  was  with  me ;  but  they 
adored  a  little  removed  from  me,  they  wor- 
shipped the  light  of  my  vesture,  and  they  all 
cried  out  together,  singing  to  the  interior  of 
the  interiors. 

"  It  came  to  pass,  when  this  was  done 
to  the  tyrants,  who  are  amid  the 
aeons,  that  they  lost  courage,  they  becomeTs S 
fell  down  in  their  aeons,  and  became  the  dea  ' 
as  the  men  of  the  world  who  are  dead,  who  have 
not  in  them  any  breath,  (42)  just  as  when 
I  took  from  them  their  power.  It  came 
to  pass,  therefore,  after  this,  when  I  had 
left  these  aeons,  that  every  one  of  those  who 
were  in  the  twelve  aeons  was  bound  to  his  order, 
and  they  accomplished  their  works  as  it  had 
been  appointed  them ;  so  that  they  spent  six 
months  turning  to  the  left,  accomplishing  their 
actions  in  their  four  angles,  their  three  angles, 


42  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

and  those  in  front  of  them,  and  that  they  spent 
also  six  months  facing  the  right,  [facing]  their 
three  angles,  their  four  angles,  and  those  in  front 
of  them.  This,  therefore,  will  be  the  path  of 
those  who  are  in  the  fate  and  in  the  sphere. 

"  It  came  to  pass,  after  these  things,  that  I 
Jesus  en-  came  into  the  height,  to  the  veils 
thirteeSn  of  tne  thirteenth  aeon.  It  came  to 
findethPis-  Pass>  when  I  had  arrived  at  its 
tis  Sophia.    vejlS)    that    they    were    withdrawn    of 

their  own  accord ;  they  opened  before  me ;  I 
entered  into  the  thirteenth  aeon,  I  found  Pistis 
Sophia  below  the  thirteenth  aeon,  quite  alone, 
no  one  being  near  her  ;  she  was  sitting  in  that 
region,  grieving  and  mourning,  because  she  had 
not  been  brought  into  the  thirteenth  aeon,  her 
proper  region  in  the  height.  And  she  was 
grieving  because  of  the  vexations  which  she 
had  been  made  to  suffer  by  Arrogant,  who  is 
one  of  the  three  triple  powers.  When  I  come 
to  tell  you  of  their  emanation,  I  will  tell  you  the 
mystery,  how  that  that  had  come  about. 

(43)     "  It    came    to    pass,    therefore,    when 
Pistis    Sophia    had    seen    me    shinino; 

Sophia  and  t  ° 

her  fellow     exceedingly,  there    being    no  measure 

powers  be-  # 

hold  the        to  the  light  which  was  in  me,  that  she 

light  .       6  ,.  i  i    ■ 

was  m  great  distress,  and  gazed  into 

the  light  of  my  vesture ;  she  saw  the  mystery 

of  her  name  in  my  vesture,  and  all  the  glory  of 


FIRST   BOOK.  43 

her  mystery,  for  formerly  she  had  been  in  the 
region  of  the  height,  in  the  thirteenth  aeon  ;  so 
she  began  to  sing  a  song  to  the  light  which  is 
in  the  height,  which  she  had  seen  in  the  veil  of 
the  treasure  of  light.  It  came  to  pass,  therefore, 
when  she  had  finished  singing  her  song  to  the 
light  which  is  in  the  height,  that  all  the  rulers, 
who  were  near  the  two  great  triple  powers,  and 
her  invisible  paired  with  her,  gazed  [upon  my 
vesture],  as  well  as  the  two  and  twenty  re- 
maining  invisible  emanations  ;  for  Pistis  Sophia 
and  her  consort,  together  with  the  two  and 
twenty  remaining  emanations,  make  up  the  four 
and  twenty  emanations,  which  were  emanated  by 
the  great  invisible  forefather  and  the  two  great 
triple  powers." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  spoken 
these  things  unto  his  disciples,  that  Marydesir- 
Mary  came  forward  and  said  :  "  Master,  the  his^or1 
I  have  heard  thee  say  formerly  that  ofS°Phla- 
Pistis  Sophia  was  also  one  of  the  four  and 
twenty  emanations.  How,  then,  was  she  not  in 
their  region  ?  For  thou  hast  said,  (44)  '  I 
found    her   below   the   thirteenth  aeon.' : 

And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  his  dis- 
ciples :  "It  came  to  pass,  when  s0phia  de- 
Pistis  Sophia  was  in  the  thirteenth  terethe°en" 
seon,  in  the  region  of  all  her  brother  llg  t"wor  ' 
invisibles,     who     are     the     four     and     twenty 


44  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

emanations  of  the  great  invisible ;  it  came  to 
pass,  therefore,  by  order  of  the  first  mystery, 
that  Pistis  Sophia  gazed  into  the  height,  she 
saw  the  light  of  the  veil  of  the  treasure  of 
light,  and  she  desired  to  go  into  that  region,  but 
she  could  not.  She  ceased  to  do  the  mystery 
of  the  thirteenth  aeon,  and  began  to  sing  a  song 
to  the  light  of  the  height,  which  she  had  seen  in 
the  light  of  the  veil  of  the  treasure  of  light. 
"  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  she  began 
to  sing  her  song  to  the  region  of  the 

The  rulers 

hate  her  height,  that  all  the  rulers  who  are  in 
in*  their"18  the  twelve  aeons,  those  who  are  below, 
mys  ery*  hated  her,  because  she  had  ceased  in 
their  mysteries,  and  because  she  had  desired 
to  go  into  the  height  and  be  above  them  all. 
For  this  cause,  therefore,  they  were  enraged 
against  her  and  hated  her.  And  the  great  triple 
power  Arrogant,  that  is  to  say,  the  third  triple 
power,  who  is  in  the  thirteenth  aeon,  the  dis- 
obedient one,  who  had  not  emanated  the  purity 
of  the  power  which  was  in  him,  and  had  not 
given  the  purity  of  his  light  at  the  time  when 
the  rulers  gave  their  purity,  for  he  wished  to 
rule  over  all  the  thirteenth  aeon,  and  those  who 
are  below  it — 

(45)  "It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  the 
rulers  of  the  twelve  aeons  were  enraged  against 
Pistis    Sophia,    who  is  above   them,  and   hated 


FIRST   BOOK.  45 

her   exceedingly,  that   the   great    triple    power 
Arrogant,  of  whom  I  have  just  been 
telling    you,    joined    himself    to    the   u5tfth 
number  of  the  twelve  aeons  ;    he   also   with  the 
became  enraged  against  Pistis  Sophia,    ^twelve 
and  hated  her  exceedingly,  because  she   J^anateth 
had    thought  to  go  towards  the  light   J^^6* 
which  was  above  him,  so  he  emanated   glag^.e 

1  bopma. 

from  himself  a  great  lion-faced  power  ; 
and  from  the  matter  which  was  in  him,  he  eman- 
ated a  host  of  other  material  emanations,  very 
violent ;  he  sent  them  into  the  lower  regions, 
into  the  parts  of  the  chaos,  in  order  that  they 
might  lie  in  wait  for  Pistis  Sophia,  and  take 
away  the  power  that  was  in  her,  because  she 
had  thought  to  go  to  the  height  which  is  above 
them  all ;  because  she  had  ceased  to  do  their 
mystery,  and  continued  to  lament,  seeking  the 
light  which  she  had  seen.  And  the  rulers  who 
stand,  or  remain,  in  the  mystery  which  they 
do,  hated  her,  and  so  also  all  the  guardians 
who  are  at  the  gates  of  the  aeons. 

"  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  after  these  things, 
by  commandment  of  the  first  statute,  that  this 
great  arrogant  triple  power,  who  is  one  of  the 
three  triple  powers,  (46)  pursued  Sophia  in  the 
thirteenth  aeon,  to  cause  her  to  gaze  into  the 
lower  parts,  in  order  that  she  might  there  see 
his  light-power  which  hath  the  face  of  a  lion, 


46  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

and  that  she  might  long  after  it,  that  she  might 
betake  herself  to  that  region  [of  chaos],  and 
that  it  might  take  from  her  the  light  which  was 
in  her. 

"  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  after  these  things, 
Sophia         that  she  gazed  below ;     she   saw  the 

taketh  the  ,  _     .  ,        , 

lion-faced     light-power  of  Arrogant  in    the  lower 

power  of  Tin  i 

Arrogant  parts,  and  she  knew  not  that  it 
true  light,  belonged  to  this  triple  power  Arro- 
gant, but  thought  that  it  came  from  the  light 
which  she  had  seen  from  the  beginning;  in  the 
height,  which  came  from  the  veil  of  the  treasure 
of  light ;  and  she  thought  to  herself,  '  I  will  go 
into  that  region,  without  my  consort,  to  take 
the  light,  which  the  aeons  of  light  have  produced 
for  me,  so  that  I  may  go  to  the  light  of  lights, 
which  is  in  the  height  of  heights.' 

"Thus    pondering,   she  went  forth  from   her 
She  de-        own  region,  the  thirteenth  aeon,   and 

thMwe^e*0     Came     int0     the     twelve      ge0nS-  The 

thencehito  rulers  °f  the  aeons  pursued  after  her  ; 
chaos.  they    were    enraged    against    her,    in 

that  she  had  thought  to  come  into  the  great- 
ness. Thence  she  went  forth  from  the  twelve 
aeons,  and  came  into  the  regions  of  the  chaos ; 
she  drew  nigh  to  that  lion-faced  light-power  to 
devour  it.  (47)  But  all  the  material  emanations 
of  Arrogant  surrounded  her,  and  the  great  lion- 
faced  light-power  devoured  all  the  light-powers 


FIEST   BOOK.  47 

which    were  in    Sophia ;    it   expelled   her    light 
and  swallowed  it,  and  as  to  her  matter,    The  eman- 

.        ations  of 

they  cast    it    into  the  chaos.       bo   it    Arrogant 

.  squeeze  the 

became  a  lion-laced  ruler  in  chaos,  light- 
of  which  the  one  half  is  fire  and  the  0f  Sophia. 
other  darkness — that  Ialdabaoth  of  which  I  have 
spoken  to  you  many  times.  Now,  when  this  was 
done,  Sophia  was  most  exceedingly  weakened, 
and  that  lion-faced  light-power  began  to  take 
away  from  Sophia  all  her  light-powers  ;  and 
all  the  material  powers  of  Arrogant  surrounded 
Sophia  at  the  same  time,  and  constrained  her  ; 
and  Pistis  Sophia  cried  out  exceedingly,  she 
cried  on  high  to  that  light  of  lights,  which  she 
had  seen  from  the  beginning,  in  which  she  had 
trusted,  and  recited  this  repentance,  saying  : 

"  '  0  light  of  lights,  in  whom  I  have  trusted 
from    the    beginning,     hearken    now,    The  first 

m  repentance 

therefore,  0  light,  unto  my  repent-  of  Sophia. 
ance.  Save  me,  0  light,  for  evil  thoughts 
have  come  upon  me.  I  gazed,  0  light,  into 
the  lower  parts ;  I  saw  a  light  there,  and 
I  thought,  (48)  I  will  go  into  that  region, 
to  take  that  light.  And  I  went  forth,  and 
[fell]  into  the  midst  of  the  lower  chaos,  and 
I  can  no  more  leave  it  to  go  to  my  region,  for 
I  am  oppressed  by  all  the  emanations  of  this 
Arrogant,  and  this  lion-faced  power  hath  taken 
away  the  light  which  was  in  me.     And  I  have 


48  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

cried  for  help,  but  my  voice  ascended  not  in  the 
darkness.  And  I  have  gazed  into  the  height, 
that  the  light,  in  which  I  had  trusted,  might 
help  me ;  and  when  I  looked  into  the  height, 
I  saw  all  the  rulers  of  the  aeons  in  great  number, 
angered  against  me,  rejoicing  over  me,  although 
I  had  done  them  no  ill ;  but  they  hated  me 
without  a  cause.  And  when  the  emanations  of 
Arrogant  had  seen  the  rulers  of  the  aeons  rejoic- 
ing over  me,  they  knew  that  the  rulers  of  the 
aeons  would  not  aid  me  ;  they  took  courage,  those 
emanations  which  constrained  me  with  violence, 
and  the  light  which  I  had  not  taken  from  them, 
they  took  from  me.  Now,  therefore,  0  light  of 
truth,  thou  knowest  that  I  have  done  these 
things  in  my  foolishness,  believing  that  this 
lion-faced  light-power  belonged  unto  thee  ;  and 
the  sin  which  I  have  done  is  clear  in  thy  sight. 
Suffer  me  no  more  to  be  weakened,  0  lord,  for 
I  have  trusted  in  thy  light  from  the  beginning. 
0  lord,  light  of  powers,  suffer  me  no  more  to 
lack  my  light,  for  it  is  because  of  thy  induce- 
ment and  light  that  I  am  in  this  agony,  and 
shame  hath  covered  my  face.  (49)  And  because 
of  thy  light,  I  am  a  stranger  to  my  brethren, 
the  invisibles,  and  also  to  the  great  emanations 
of  Barbelo.  These  things  have  befallen  me,  0 
light,  because  I  have  ardently  longed  for  thy 
dwelling  ;    and  the  wrath  of  Arrogant  is  fallen 


FIRST   BOOK.  49 

upon  me,  of  him  who  would  not  give  ear  to  thy 
command  to  send  forth  the  emanation  of  his 
power,  for  I  dwelt  in  his  aeon,  without  doing  its 
mystery,  and  all  the  rulers  of  the  seons  have 
held  me  in  derision.  And  I  am  in  this  region, 
grieving,  seeking  after  the  light,  which  I  saw 
in  the  height.  And  the  guardians  of  the  gates 
of  the  seons  have  questioned  me,  and  all  those 
who  keep  to  their  mystery  have  mocked  me. 
But  as  for  me,  I  gazed  into  the  height,  towards 
thee.  0  light  of  lights,  I  am  oppressed  in  the 
darkness  of  this  chaos,  until  it  be  thy  good 
pleasure  to  come  and  save  me.  Great  is  thy 
mercy  ;  hear  me  in  truth,  and  preserve  me,  save 
me  from  the  matter  of  this  darkness,  that  I  may 
no  longer  be  plunged  therein,  that  I  may  be 
saved  from  the  emanations  of  god  Arrogant 
which  constrain  me,  and  from  their  evil  doings. 
Let  not  this  darkness  cover  me,  and  this  lion- 
faced  power,  suffer  it  not  to  devour  the  whole 
of  my  power  entirely,  and  let  not  this  chaos 
hide  my  power. 

(50)  "  '  Hear  me,  0  light,  for  thy  mercy  is 
good,  and  look  upon  me  according  to  the  great 
mercy  of  thy  light ;  turn  not  thy  face  from  me, 
for  I  am  exceedingly  tormented.  Haste  thee 
hearken  unto  me,  and  preserve  my  power.  Save 
me  from  the   rulers   which   hate  me,   for  thou 

knowest  my  afflictions,  and  my  danger,  and  the 

4 


50  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

peril  of  my  power  which  they  have  taken  from 
me.  They  who  have  set  me  in  all  these  evils 
are  in  thy  sight.  Do  unto  them  according 
to  thy  good  pleasure.  My  power  looketh  forth 
from  the  midst  of  the  chaos,  and  from  the  midst 
of  the  darkness  I  have  gazed  after  my  consort, 
to  see  if  he  would  come  and  battle  for  me,  and 
he  came  not,  and  I  looked  that  he  should  come 
and  give  me  power,  and  I  found  him  not,  and 
when  I  asked  for  light,  they  gave  me  darkness  ; 
and  when  I  asked  for  my  power,  they  gave  me 
matter.  Now,  therefore,  0  light  of  lights,  let  the 
darkness  and  the  matter,  which  the  emanations  of 
Arrogant  have  brought  upon  me,  be  snares  for 
them,  and  let  them  be  ensnared  therein  ;  recom- 
pense them,  and  let  them  meet  with  stumbling- 
blocks,  in  order  that  they  may  not  come  into  the 
region  of  their  own  Arrogant.  Let  them  remain 
in  darkness,  and  let  them  not  see  the  light ;  let 
them  ever  behold  the  chaos  and  look  not  into 
the  height.  Bring  upon  them  their  [own]  ven- 
geance, and  let  thy  judgment  seize  upon  them, 
(51)  let  them  not  henceforth  enter  into  their 
region  near  their  god  Arrogant ;  let  his  emana- 
tions no  longer  enter  into  their  region,  for  their 
god  is  impious  and  arrogant,  and  thought  that 
he  had  brought  these  evils  upon  me  of  himself, 
not  knowing  that,  hadst  thou  not  humbled  me 
by  thy  commandment,  he  would  not  have  pre- 


FIRST   BOOK.  51 

vailed  against  me.  But  when  thou  hadst  hum- 
bled me,  they  pursued  the  more  after  me,  and 
their  emanations  added  pains  to  my  humiliation  ; 
they  took  from  me  of  my  light-power,  and  began 
again  to  be  hostile  to  me ;  they  have  constrained 
me  mightily  to  take  away  all  the  light  which 
was  in  me.  Because,  therefore,  of  the  evils  in 
which  they  have  planted  me,  suffer  them  not 
to  enter  into  the  thirteenth  8eon,(the  region  of 
righteousness!}  Let  them  not  be  reckoned  in 
the  number  of  those  whose  light  is  purified, 
let  them  not  be  reckoned  in  the  number 
of  those  who  will  quickly  repent,  that  they 
may  speedily  receive  the  mystery  in  the  light ; 
for  they  have  taken  my  light  from  me. 
My  power  hath  begun  to  cease  in  me,  and 
I  am  destitute  of  my  light. 

"  '  Now,  therefore,  0  light — [light]  which  is 
with  thee  and  is  [also]  with  me — I  sing  thy  name 
in  glory.  May  my  song  please  thee,  0  light, 
as  an  excellent  mystery,  which  leadeth  to  the 
interior  of  the  gates  of  light,  and  of  which  they 
will  tell  who  shall  repent,  and  whose  light  shall 
be  purified.  Now,  therefore,  let  all  matter  rejoice. 
(52)  Seek  ye  all  the  light,  that  the  power  of 
the  stars  which  is  in  us  may  be  revealed,  for 
the  light  hath  heard  the  matters,  nor  will  it  leave 
any  without  purging  them.  Let  all  souls  and 
matters  praise  the  lord  of  all  the  aeons,  and  all 


52  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

that  is  therein,  for  God  shall  save  their  soul 
from  all  matter,  and  they  shall  prepare  a  city  in 
the  light,  and  all  the  souls  that  shall  be  saved 
shall  dwell  in  that  city,  and  shall  inherit  it. 
And  the  soul  of  them  that  shall  receive  the 
mystery  shall  dwell  in  that  region,  and  they 
that  shall  have  received  the  mystery  in  its  name 
shall  dwell  therein.' " 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  spoken 
these  things  unto  his  disciples,  that  he  said  unto 
them  :  "  This  is  the  song  which  Pistis  Sophia 
uttered  in  her  first  repentance,  when  she  repented 
of  her  sin,  reciting  all  things  which  had  befallen 
her.  Now,  therefore,  he  that  hath  ears  to  hear, 
let  him  hear." 

AndWaryjcame  forward  and  said  :  "  Master, 
my  indweller  of  light  hath  ears,  and  I  hear  in 
my  light-power,  and  thy  spirit  which  is  with 
me  is  sober.  Hearken,  therefore,  I  will  speak 
concerning  the  repentance,  (53)  which  Pistis 
Sophia  made,  speaking  of  her  sin  and  all  that 
befell  her.  Thy  light-power  hath  prophesied  of 
old  on  this  matter  through  the  prophet  David, 
in  the  sixty-eighth  Psalm,  saying : 

"  '  Save  me,  0  God,  for  the  waters  are  come 
Mary  inter-  m  even  unto  my  soul.  I  stick  fast,  or 
nrsttpent6  sink>  in  tbe  mire  of  the  abyss>  and  I 
Psahnr°m  nave  no  power.  I  am  come  into  the 
lxvm.  depths  of  the  sea,  a  tempest  hath  over- 


' 


FIRST   BOOK.  53 

whelmed  me.  I  am  a- wearied  with  crying,  my 
throat  is  hoarse.  My  eyes  failed  me,  when  I 
set  my  heart  on  God.  They  that  hate  me  with- 
out a  cause  are  more  than  the  hairs  of  my  head. 
My  foes  have  prevailed  against  me,  they  who 
pursued  after  me  with  violence.  They  asked 
me  for  that  which  I  never  took  from  them. 
God,  thou  knowest  my  simpleness,  and  my 
faults  are  not  hid  from  thee.  Let  not  them  that 
wait  on  thee,  0  lord,  be  ashamed  for  my  sake. 
0  lord  of  powers,  let  not  those  who  seek  thee 
be  confounded  through  me,  0  lord,  God  of 
Israel,  0  lord  of  powers ;  for  it  is  for  thy  sake 
that  I  have  suffered  reproach,  that  shame  hath 
covered  my  face,  that  I  am  become  a  stranger 
unto  my  brethren,  even  an  alien  unto  my 
mother's  children ;  for  the  heat  of  thy  mansion 
hath  devoured  me,  and  the  reproaches  of  them  that 
reproached  thee  have  fallen  upon  me.  I  bowed 
my  soul  with  fasting,  and  that  was  turned  to 
my  reproach.  I  put  on  sackcloth  ;  I  became  a 
bye-word  among  them.  They  who  sat  at  the 
gates  mocked  at  me,  and  the  drunkards  made  a 
song  about  me. 

"  '  But  as  for  me,  I  prayed  in  my  soul  to  thee, 
0  lord.  (54)  The  time  is  thine,  0  God.  In 
the  greatness  of  thy  mercy,  give  ear  unto  my 
salvation,  in  truth.  Take  me  out  of  this  mire, 
that  I  sink  not ;  let  me  be  delivered  from  them 


54  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

that  hate  me,  and  from  the  pit  of  the  waters. 
Let  not  the  water-flood  drown  me,  neither  let 
the  deep  devour  me,  let  not  the  pit  seize  me 
with  its  mouth.  Hear  me,  0  lord,  for  thy 
mercy  is  sweet.  According  to  the  multitude  of 
thy  mercies  look  upon  me.  Turn  not  thy  face 
from  thy  servant,  for  I  am  oppressed.  Hear  me 
speedily.  Give  heed  to  my  soul  and  save  it. 
Save  me  from  my  enemies,  for  thou  hast  known 
my  rebuke,  my  shame,  and  my  affliction.  All 
they  who  afflict  me  are  in  thy  sight.  My  heart 
gazeth  on  rebuke  and  misfortune.  I  looked  for 
him  who  should  sorrow  with  me,  but  I  found  him 
not ;  for  him  who  should  comfort  me,  and  I 
found  him  not.  They  have  given  me  gall  for 
meat ;  and  in  my  thirst  they  gave  me  vinegar  to 
drink.  Let  their  table  be  unto  them  a  snare,  a  net, 
a  retribution  and  a  stumbling-block.  Bend  their 
back  for  all  time.  Trample  them  under  foot  in 
thy  anger,  let  the  wrath  of  thy  displeasure  seize 
hold  upon  them.  Let  their  habitation  be  deso- 
late, let  no  one  dwell  in  their  realm  ;  for  they 
have  persecuted  him  whom  thou  hast  smitten. 
They  have  added  bitterness  to  their  pain. 
Thev  have  added  iniquity  to  their  iniquities. 
Let  them  not  come  into  thy  righteousness  ;  (55) 
let  them  be  wiped  out  of  the  book  of  the  living. 
Let  them  not  be  inscribed  among  the  righteous. 
I  am  poor,  an  endurer  of  grief.     The  salvation 


FIEST   BOOK.  55 

of  thy  countenance  hath  received  me  unto  itself. 
I  will  bless  the  name  of  God  in  a  song,  and  I 
will  magnify  it  with  a  benediction.  This  shall 
please  the  lord  better  than  a  calf  new-born  that 
putteth  forth  its  horns,  or  than  a  young  kid.  Let 
the  poor  see  and  be  glad.  Seek  ye  God,  that 
your  souls  may  live  ;  for  the  lord  hath  heard  the 
poor,  and  despiseth  not  them  who  are  in  the 
bands  of  brass.  Let  heaven  and  earth  bless  the 
lord,  the  sea  and  all  that  is  therein.  For  God 
will  save  and  preserve  in  Sion,  and  they  will 
build  the  cities  of  Judaea,  that  they  may  dwell 
in  them,  and  find  in  them  their  inheritance. 
The  seed  of  his  servants  shall  possess  it,  and 
they  who  love  his  name  shall  dwell  therein.' ' 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Mary  had  spoken 
these  words  unto  Jesus,  in  the  midst  of  the 
disciples,  that  she  said  unto  him  :  "  Master,  this 
is  the  interpretation  of  the  mystery  of  the  re- 
pentance of  Pistis  Sophia." 

(56)  It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  heard 
Mary  speak  these  words,  that  he  said  unto 
her  :  "  Well  said,  Mary,  thou  blessed  one,  the 
perfection  of  women,  the  most  blessed  of  perfec- 
tions, thou  whom  they  shall  beatify  in  every 
generation.'' 

And  Jesus  continued  in  his  conversation,  and 
said  :    "  Pistis    Sophia   then    sang   her   The  second 

#  repentance 

second  repentance,  saying:   'Light  of  of  Sophia. 


56  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

lights,  in  whom  I  have  trusted,  leave  me  not  in 
the  darkness  until  the  end  of  my  time.  Aid 
me.  and  save  me,  in  thy  mysteries.  Incline 
thine  ear  unto  me,  and  save  me.  May  the 
power  of  thy  light  protect  me,  and  carry  me  to 
the  aeons  of  the  height ;  for  it  is  thou  who  shalt 
save  me,  and  take  me  into  the  height  of  thy 
aeons.  Preserve  me,  0  light,  from  the  hand  of 
this  lion-faced  power,  and  from  the  hands  of  the 
emanations  of  god  Arrogant ;  for  thine  is  the 
light  in  which  I  have  trusted  ;  I  have  trusted  in 
thy  light  from  the  beginning,  I  have  trusted  in 
it  from  the  hour  when  it  sent  me  forth  ;  thou  it 
is,  who  causedst  me  to  emanate.  As  for  me,  I 
have  trusted  in  thy  light  from  the  beginning. 
And  when  I  trusted  in  thee,  the  rulers  of  the 
aeons  mocked  at  me,  saying,  "  She  hath  ceased  in 
her  mystery."  'Tis  thou  who  shalt  save  me, 
(57)  thou  my  saviour,  thou  my  mystery, 
0  light.  My  mouth  hath  been  filled  with 
praise,  that  I  may  tell  of  the  mystery  of  thy 
greatness  for  all  time.  Now,  therefore,  0  light, 
leave  me  not  in  chaos,  until  the  end  of  all  my 
time.  Leave  me  not  behind  thee,  0  light,  for 
they  have  taken  from  me  my  light-power  en- 
tirely, and  all  the  emanations  of  Arrogant  have 
surrounded  me.  They  sought  to  take  away  the 
whole  of  my  light  to  the  very  exterior ;  they 
have   set    a    watch    on    my  power,    saying  one 


FIRST   BOOK.  57 

to  another,  together — for  my  light  had  aban- 
doned me — "  Seize  her,  take  from  her  all  the 
light  which  is  in  her."  Therefore,  0  light,  go 
not  far  from  me  ;  save  me,  0  light,  save  me 
from  the  hands  of  these  pitiless  ones.  Let  them 
that  would  take  away  my  power  fall,  and  be 
without  strength.  Let  them  that  would  take 
away  my  light-power  be  clothed  with  darkness, 
and  let  them  be  impotent.' 

"  This  is  the  second  repentance  which  Pistis 
Sophia  spake,  singing  a  song  to  the  light." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  finished 
speaking  these  words  unto  his  disciples,  that  he 
said  unto  them :  "  Do  ye  understand  how  I 
speak  unto  you  ?  " 


And[  Peter)  starting  forward,  said  unto  Jesus  : 
"  Master,  we  cannot  endure  this  woman 

Peter  com- 

to  thus  take  our  place  from  us,  and  not   piaineth  of 

r  Mary. 

suffer   us    to    speak,    but    she    speaks 
many  times." 

And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  his  dis- 
ciples :  "  Let  him  in  whom  the  power  of  his 
spirit  seethes,  to  make  him  understand  what  I 
say,  let  him  come  forward  and  speak.  (58)  But 
as  for  thee,  Peter,  I  see  that  thy  power  in  thee 
understandeth  the  interpretation  of  the  mystery 
of  the  repentance  which  Pistis  Sophia  spake. 
Now,  therefore,  Peter,  expound  the  meaning  of 
her  repentance  in  the  midst  of  thy  brethren." 


58  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

And  Peter  answered  and  said  unto  Jesus  : 
Peter  inter-    "  Master,  give  ear  that  I  may  expound 

preteth  the     .  -.  •  r     i  r 

second  re-  the  meaning  ot  her  repentance,  01 
fromapsaim  which  of  old  thy  power  prophesied 
lxx"  through  David  the  prophet,  who  spake 

her  repentance  in  the  seventieth  Psalm  : 

"  '  In  thee,  0  God,  my  God,  I  have  put  my 
trust,  let  me  not  be  put  to  confusion  for  ever. 
Preserve  me  in  thy  righteousness,  and  save  me. 
Incline  thine  ear  unto  me  to  preserve  me.  Be 
thou  unto  me  a  strong  God,  and  a  stronghold 
to  preserve  me.  For  thou  art  my  foundation 
and  my  refuge.  0  my  God,  save  me  from  the 
hand  of  the  sinner,  from  the  hand  of  the  trans- 
gressor of  the  law,  and  from  the  impious,  for 
thou  art  my  support,  0  lord,  thou  art  my  hope 
from  my  childhood  ;  by  thee  have  I  been  hold  en 
up  from  the  beginning,  when  thou  causedst  me 
to  come  forth  from  my  mother's  womb.  I  will 
call  thee  to  mind  for  ever.  (59)  I  was  as  one 
of  the  foolish  for  the  crowd.  Thou  art  my  help 
and  my  support ;  thou  art  my  saviour,  0  lord. 
My  mouth  is  filled  with  blessing,  that  I  may 
bless  the  glory  of  thy  greatness  all  the  day  long. 
Cast  me  not  away  in  the  time  of  age,  and  cause 
not  my  soul  to  be  without  strength.  Cast  me 
not  behind  thee,  for  mine  enemies  speak  evil 
against  me  ;  and  they  who  keep  watch  on  my 
soul  have  taken  counsel  together,  saying,  "  God 


FIRST   BOOK.  59 

hath  forsaken  him.  Run  and  take  him,  for 
there  is  no  one  to  help  him."  0  God,  haste 
thee  to  my  help.  Let  them  be  ashamed,  let 
them  cease  to  accuse  my  soul,  let  them  be 
covered  with  shame  and  affliction  who  seek  to 
do  me  evil.' 

"This,  then,  is  the  interpretation  of  the  second 
repentance  which  Pistis  Sophia  made." 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Peter : 
"  It  is  well,   Peter ;  that  is  the  inter- 

Jesus  pro- 

pretation  of  her  repentance.     Blessed   misethto 

perfect  the 

are  ye  beyond  all  men  who  are  on  the   disciples  in 

earth,  in  that  I  have  revealed  unto  you 

these  mysteries.     Amen,  amen,  I  say  unto  you, 

(60)  I  will  perfect  you  in  every  perfection,  from         4-^c 

the  mysteries  of  the  interior  to  the  mysteries  of 

the  exterior  ;  I  will  fill  you  with  the  spirit,  so 

that  ye  shall  be   called  spiritual,  perfect   in  all 

perfections.     And,  amen,  amen,  I  say  unto  you 

I  will  give  unto  you  all  the  mysteries  of  all  the 

regions  of   my   father,   and    of  all  the   regions 

of   the    first    mystery,   so    that    he    whom  ye 

shall  receive   on  earth,  shall  be  received  in  the 

light    of  the    height ;    and    he  whom   ye    shall 

reject  on  earth,  shall  be  rejected  in  the  kingdom 

of  my  father  who  is  in  the  heavens.     Hearken. 

therefore,   and  give   ear   to   all  the  repentances 

which     Pistis     Sophia    spake.      She    continued 

and  spake  her  third  repentance,  saying : 


60  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

"  '  0  light  of  powers,  give  heed  and  save  me. 
Let    them    that    seek  to    take    away 

The  third  ,  J 

repentance    my    light  be  destitute,   and  let  them 

of  Sophia.  ,.,-,! 

dwell  in  the  darkness.  Let  them 
that  seek  to  take  my  power  be  turned  into 
chaos,  and  let  them  be  ashamed.  Let  them 
descend  speedily  into  the  darkness,  who  constrain 
me,  saying,  "  We  have  mastered  her."  But  let 
all  those  who  seek  for  the  light,  rejoice  and  be 
glad ;  let  them  that  desire  thy  mystery,  say  ever, 
"May  the  mystery  be  exalted."  (61)  Now, 
therefore,  0  light,  preserve  me,  for  I  lack  my 
light  which  they  have  taken  away ;  and  I  am 
destitute  of  my  power  which  they  have  taken 
from  me.  Thou,  therefore,  0  light,  thou  art  my 
saviour.  Tis  thou  who  preservest  me,  0  light. 
Haste  thee,  save  me  from  this  chaos.' ' 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  finished 
speaking  these  words  unto  his  disciples,  saying, 
"  This  is  the  third  repentance  of  Pistis  Sophia," 
that  he  said  unto  them  :  "  Let  him  in  whom  a 
perceptive  mind  is  awakened,  come  forward,  and 
let  him  expound  the  meaning  of  the  repentance 
which  Pistis  Sophia  spake." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  finished 
Martha        speaking,  that  M^tha) cam e  forward; 

asketh   and  s ~~ 

receiveth  she  bowed  herself  at  the  feet  of  Jesus 
to  speak.  and  kissed  them  ;  she  cried  aloud,  and 
wept  with   groaning    and    humbleness,   saying : 


FIRST   BOOK.  61 

"  Master,  have  mercy  upon  me,  and  be  com- 
passionate unto  me,  and  suffer  me  to  expound 
the  interpretation  of  the  repentance  which  Pistis 
Sophia  spake." 

And  Jesus,  taking  Martha  by  the  hand,  said 
unto  her  :  "  Blessed  is  every  one  who  humbleth 
himself,  for  on  him  they  shall  have  mercy.  Now, 
therefore,  0  Martha,  thou  art  blessed.  Expound, 
therefore,  the  interpretation  of  the  meaning  of 
the  repentance  of  Pistis  Sophia." 

And  Martha  answered  and  said  unto  Jesus, 
in  the  midst  of  the  disciples :  (62)  Martha  in- 
"  Concerning  the  repentance  uttered  thePthirdh 
by  Pistis  Sophia,  0  Jesus,  my  master,  SSSpSSSi 
thy  light-power  of  old  prophesied  lxix' 
through  David,  in  the  sixty-ninth  Psalm,  say- 
ing : 

"  '  0  lord,  my  God,  haste  thee  to  my  help. 
Let  them  be  ashamed  and  confounded  that  seek 
after  my  soul ;  let  them  be  turned  backward 
and  be  put  to  shame,  who  say  unto  me,  "  There, 
there."  But  let  all  those  that  seek  thee  be 
joyful;  let  them  rejoice  for  thy  sake;  let  all 
them  that  love  thy  salvation,  say  ever,  "  The  lord 
be  exalted."  But  as  for  me,  I  am  poor,  I  am 
destitute  ;  0  lord,  be  thou  my  help.  Thou  art 
my  help  and  protection,  0  lord,  make  no  long 
tarrying.' 

"  This,  then,  is  the  interpretation  of  the  third 


62  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

repentance  spoken  by  Pistis  Sophia,  when  she 
sang  a  song  to  the  height." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  heard  Martha 
speak  these  words,  that  he  said  unto  her  :  "  Well 
said,  Martha  ;  it  is  well." 

And  Jesus  continued  in  his  conversation,  and 
said  unto  his  disciples :  "  Pistis  Sophia  con- 
tinued with  a  fourth  repentance,  reciting  it  be- 
fore they  had  constrained  her  a  second  time,  so 
that  they  might  once  more  take  away  all  the 
light  that  was  in  her — that  lion-faced  power, 
and  all  the  material  emanations  which  were  with 
it,  those  which  Arrogant  had  sent  into  the 
chaos — (63)  she  recited  then  her  repentance  as 
follows  : 

"  '  0  light,  in  whom  I  have  trusted,  hear  my 
The  fourth    repentance,    and    let    my   voice    come 

repentance  L  J 

of  Sophia.  ^0  thy  dwelling-place.  Turn  not 
thy  image  of  light  from  me,  but  regard  me.  If 
they  constrain  me,  haste  thee,  and  save  me, 
when  I  shall  cry  unto  thee,  for  my  time  passeth 
away  as  vapour,  and  I  am  become  as  matter. 
They  have  taken  away  my  light,  and  my  power 
is  dried  up.  I  have  forgotten  my  mystery 
which  I  performed  in  the  beginning  ;  because  of 
the  din  of  the  fear  and  power  of  Arrogant,  my 
power  hath  failed  in  me.  I  am  become  as  a 
mere  daemon  dwelling  in  matter ;  I  am  become 
like  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit,  which  is  in  a 


FIRST   BOOK.  63 

material  body,  in  which  there  is  no  light-power  ;  I 
am  become  like  as  a  mere  decan  of  the  air. 
The  emanations  of  Arrogant  have  constrained 
me  mightily,  and  my  consort  hath  said  to  him- 
self, "  Instead  of  the  light  which  was  in  her,  they 
have  filled  her  with  chaos."  I  have  myself  de- 
voured the  sweat  of  my  matter,  and  the  anguish 
of  the  tears  of  the  matter  of  my  eyes,  that  they 
who  were  constraining  me  might  not  take  what 
remains.  (64)  All  these  things  have  been  done 
unto  me,  0  light,  by  thy  order  and  command- 
ment, and  it  is  thy  commandment  that  I  am 
therein.  Thy  commandment  hath  brought  me 
below,  and  I  am  descended  like  a  power  of 
chaos,  my  power  hath  grown  cold  in  me. 

"  '  But  thou,  lord,  thou  art  the  light  eternal, 
and  thou  dost  visit  them  whom  they  constrain, 
at  all  times.  Now,  therefore,  0  light,  arise,  seek 
my  power  and  the  soul  which  is  in  me.  Thy 
commandment  is  accomplished,  which  thou 
didst  decree  for  me  in  my  afflictions.  My  time 
is  come  for  thee  to  visit  my  power  and  my  soul. 
This  is  the  time  which  thou  didst  decree  that 
thou  wouldst  visit  me,  so  that  the  saviours 
should  seek  for  the  power  which  is  in  my  soul 
(for  its  number  is  accomplished),  and  that  they 
should  also  save  the  matter  thereof.  At  that  time, 
then,  all  the  rulers  of  the  material  aeons  shall  fear 
thy  light,  and  all   the   emanations  of  the  thir- 


64  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

teenth  material  aeon  shall  fear  the  mystery  of  thy 
light,  and  thus  cause  the  others  to  put  on  the 
glory  of  their  light,  for  the  saviour  shall  visit 
the  power  of  their  soul.  He  hath  revealed  his 
mystery,  for  he  will  regard  the  repentance  of 
them  who  inhabit  the  lower  regions,  nor  will  he 
disregard  their  repentance.  This,  then,  is  that 
mystery  which  hath  become  the  type  for  the 
race  which  shall  be  engendered  ;  and  the  race 
which  shall  be  engendered  will  sing  a  song 
to  the  height,  for  the  light  hath  regarded  from 
the  height  of  its  light.  (65)  It  will  regard 
every  matter,  to  hear  the  sighs  of  them  that 
are  bound,  to  unloose  the  power  of  the  souls 
whose  power  is  bound,  and  to  place  his  name  in 
the  soul,  and  his  mystery  in  the  power.' ' 

It  came  to  pass  that  when  Jesus  had  spoken 
these  words  unto  his  disciples,  saying 

John  ask-  .  r  J      & 

eth  and  re-   unto  them,  "  This  is  the  fourth  repent- 

ceivethper-  . 

mission  to  ance  recited  by  ristis  Sophia  ;  now, 
therefore,  let  him  who  understandeth, 
understand " — it  came  to  pass  when  Jesus  had 
spoken  these  words,  that  (Johnj  came  forward  ; 
he  adored  the  breast  of  Jesus,  and  said  unto 
him  :  "  Master,  give  commandment  to  me  also, 
and  suffer  me  to  utter  the  explanation  of  the 
fourth  repentance  recited  by  Pistis  Sophia." 

And   Jesus   said   unto    John :   "I   give    thee 
commandment,  and  I  bid  thee  expound  the  in- 


FIRST   BOOK.  65 

terpretation  of  the  repentance  recited  by  Pistis 
Sophia." 

And  John  answered  and  said  :  "  My  master, 
and  saviour,  concerning  this  repentance  recited 
by  Pistis  Sophia,  thy  power  of  old  which  was  in 
David  hath  prophesied,  in  the  one  hundred  and 
first  Psalm,  saying  : 

"  '  Hear  my  prayer,  0  lord,  and  let  my  crying 
come  unto   thee.     Turn   not  thy  face 

.  .  John  inter- 

from  me ;  incline  thine  ear  unto  me  preteth  the 
in  the  day  when  I  shall  be  constrained.  fromPsaim 
Haste  thee,  and  hear  me,  in  the  day 
when  I  shall  cry  unto  thee,  for  my  days  are 
consumed  like  smoke,  (66)  and  my  bones  are 
parched  like  stone.  I  am  mowed  down  like  the 
grass,  and  my  heart  is  withered,  for  I  have  for- 
gotten to  eat  my  bread.  Because  of  the  sound 
of  my  groaning,  my  bones  have  cleaved  to  my 
flesh.  I  am  become  like  the  pelican  in  the 
wilderness ;  like  the  owl  in  a  house.  I  have 
passed  the  night  long  in  watching ;  I  am  become 
as  the  sparrow  alone  upon  the  house-top.  My 
enemies  revile  me  all  the  day  long,  and  they 
who  honoured  me,  cursed  me  ;  for  I  have  eaten 
ashes  as  though  it  were  bread,  and  mingled  my 
drink  with  tears,  before  thy  indignation  and  thy 
wrath  ;  for  thou  hast  lifted  me  up  and  cast  me 
to  the  earth.  My  days  have  declined  like  a 
shadow,  and  I  am  dried  up  like  the  grass. 


66  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

"  '  But  thou,  lord,  thou  art  for  ever,  and  thy 
remembrance  is  from  generation  to  generation. 
Arise,  therefore,  and  have  mercy  upon  Sion,  for 
the  time  hath  come  to  have  mercy  upon  her, 
yea,  thy  time  hath  come.  Thy  servants  have 
sought  her  stones,  and  will  take  pity  on  her  soil, 
that  the  nation  may  fear  the  name  of  the  lord, 
and  the  kings  of  the  earth  thy  glory  ;  for  the 
lord  shall  build  Sion  to  reveal  himself  in  his 
glory.  He  hath  regarded  the  prayer  of  them 
that  are  humble,  and  hath  not  despised  their 
supplication.  Let  them  write  this  in  another 
book,  and  the  people  that  will  be  engendered 
shall  bless  the  lord,  for  he  hath  looked  down 
from  his  holy  height.  The  lord  hath  gazed 
upon  the  heaven  and  the  earth,  to  hear  the  sighs 
of  them  that  are  bound ;  (67)  to  unloose  the 
children  of  them  whom  they  have  killed,  that 
they  may  utter  the  name  of  the  lord  in  Sion 
and  his  praise  in  Jerusalem.' 

"  This,  0  Master,  is  the  interpretation  of  the 
mystery  of  the  repentance,  recited  by  Pistis 
Sophia." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  John  had  finished 
Jesus  com-  speaking  these  words  to  Jesus,  in  the 
John.  midst  of  the  disciples,  that  Jesus  said 

unto  him  :   "  Well   said,  John,  the   virgin,  who 
shall  rule  in  the  kingdom  of  light." 

And   Jesus  continued    his  conversation,    and 


FIRST   BOOK.  67 

said  unto  his  disciples  :  "  It  came  to  pass  again 
that  the  emanations  of  Arrogant  once   mu 

°  The  emana- 

more  constrained  Pistis  Sophia  in  the   tions  of 

x  Arrogant 

chaos,  and  the  commandment  had  not   again 

squeeze  the 

yet  come  from  the   first   mystery,  to   light  out  of 

J  J  J  Sophia. 

set  her  free  from  chaos.     It  came  to 
pass,  therefore,  when  the  material  emanations  of 
Arrogant    constrained   her,  that   she    cried    out 
reciting  this  fifth  repentance,  saying  : 

"  '  Light  of  my  salvation,  I  send  forth  a  song 
unto  thee  in  the  region  of  the  height,  and   The  fifth 

.  .  repentance 

also  in  chaos.  I  will  hymn  thee  in  my  of  Sophia. 
song  which  I  sang  in  the  height ;  which  I  have 
sung  too  in  chaos.  Let  it  come  into  thy 
presence.  Give  heed,  0  light,  to  my  repent- 
ance, (68)  for  my  power  is  filled  with  darkness, 
and  my  light  hath  come  into  chaos.  I  am 
become,  also,  like  as  the  rulers  of  chaos,  they 
who  go  into  the  lower  darkness.  I  have  become 
as  a  material  body,  which  hath  no  one  to  save  it  in 
the  height.  I  am  become  also  like  matter  from  '" 
which  the  power  hath  been  taken  ;  [matter]  cast 
into  chaos,  which  thou  hast  not  preserved, 
which  hath  perished  by  thy  commandment. 
Now,  therefore,  I  have  been  set  in  the  lower 
darkness  ;  in  darkness,  and  in  dead  matter,  in 
which  there  is  no  power.  Thou  hast  brought 
thy  commandment  upon  me,  and  upon  every- 
thing as   thou  hast   decreed.     Thy  spirit  hath 


68  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

departed,  and  left  me.  Moreover,  by  thy  com 
mandment,  the  emanations  of  my  seon  have  not 
come  to  my  aid.  They  have  held  me  in  detesta- 
tion, and  kept  themselves  from  me.  Yet  am  I 
not  utterly  ruined,  though  my  light  is  diminished 
in  me.  I  have  cried  to  the  light  with  all  the 
light  that  was  in  me,  and  I  have  stretched  forth 
my  hands  unto  thee. 

"  '  Now,  therefore,  0  light,  surely  thou  wilt 
fulfil  thy  commandment  in  chaos.  Surely  the 
saviours,  who  should  come  by  thy  command, 
surely  they  will  arise  in  the  darkness  and  come 
to  learn  of  thee  ?  Surely  they  will  utter  the 
mystery  of  thy  name  in  chaos  ?  Surely,  at 
least,  they  will  utter  thy  name  in  the  matter  of 
chaos,  [the  name]  whereby  thou  wilt  illuminate 
it? 

"  '  But,  as  for  me,  I  send  forth  a  song  unto 
thee,  0  light,  and  my  repentance  shall  reach 
unto  thee  in  the  height.  (69)  Let  thy  light 
come  upon  me,  for  they  have  taken  away  my 
light,  and  I  am  in  affliction  because  of  the  light 
from  the  time  I  was  made  to  emanate  ;  when  I 
gazed  into  the  height  towards  the  light,  and  I 
gazed  below  towards  this  light-power  which  is  in 
chaos ;  when  I  rose  up  and  fell  down.  Thy 
commandment  hath  come  upon  me,  and  the 
terrors,  which  thou  didst  decree,  have  thrown 
me  into  confusion ;  they  have  surrounded  me  in 


FIRST   BOOK.  69 

numbers  like  water,  they  have  seized  upon  me 
by  thy  commandment,  and  thou  hast  not  suffered 
my  fellow-emanations  to  help  me,  nor  hast  thou 
permitted  my  companion  to  save  me  in  my 
tribulations/ 

"  This  is  the  fifth  repentance  which  Pistis 
Sophia  recited  in  the  chaos,  when  all  the  material 
emanations  of  Arrogant  began  [again]  to  con- 
strain her." 

Jesus,  therefore,  having  spoken  these  words 
unto  his  disciples,  said  unto  them  :  "  He  that 
hath  ears  to  hear,  let  him  hear ;  and  let  him  in 
whom  his  mind  seethes,  come  forward,  and 
expound  the  interpretation  of  the  meaning  of 
the  fifth  repentance  of  Pistis  Sophia." 

And  when  Jesus  had  finished  speaking,  Philip 
started  forward,  and  rose  up,  and  left  Philip  the 
on  the  ground  the  book  which  had  piameth. 
been  in  his  hands ;  for  it  was  he  who  recorded 
all  the  discourse  which  Jesus  uttered,  and  all 
that  he  did.  Philip,  therefore,  came  forward 
and  said  unto  him  :  (70)  "  Master,  surely  it  is 
not  on  me  alone  that  thou  hast  imposed  the  task 
of  taking  care  of  this  world,  to  write  all  that 
we  shall  say  and  do,  and  hast  not  suffered  me  to 
come  forward  and  interpret  the  mysteries  of  the 
repentance  of  Pistis  Sophia.  My  spirit  hath 
seethed  in  me  many  a  time  and  oft ;  it  hath 
revealed  the  interpretation,  it  hath  constrained 


^ 


70  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

me  mightily  to  come  forward  to  expound  the  in- 
terpretation of  the  repentance  of  Pistis  Sophia ; 
but  I  have  not  been  able  to  do  so,  for  it  is  I 
who  write  down  all  the  words." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  heard  Philip, 
Jesus  ex-      that   he   said   unto    him :    "  Hearken, 

plaineth 

that  the       Philip,  thou  blessed  one,  while  I  speak 

appointed  ,   .  ,    m, 

scribes  are  unto  thee,  lor  tis  thou,  and  1  nomas, 
<VJUV#U^  Thomas™  and  Matthew,  who  have  been  charged, 
thew.  '  by  the  first  mystery,  to  write  down 
every  word  which  I  shall  speak,  and  everything 
which  I  shall  do,  and  everything  which  ye  shall 
see.  But  as  for  thee,  the  tale  of  the  words 
which  thou  hast  to  write,  is  not  completed. 
But  when  it  shall  be  completed,  thou  shalt  come 
forward,  thou  shalt  utter  that  which  thou  shalt 
desire.  Now,  therefore,  it  is  ye  three  who  shall 
write  every  word  which  I  shall  speak,  and 
everything  which  I  shall  do  and  see,  and  I  will 
bear  witness  to  you  of  all  things  which  are  in  the 
kingdom  of  the  heavens."  And  when  Jesus  had 
spoken  these  words,  he  said  unto  his  disciples  : 
"  He  that  hath  ears  to  hear,  let  him  hear." 

(71)   And [  Mary  started  forward    again,    she 
came   into   the    midst,    she   stood  by 

Mary  inter-  J 

preteth  the    Philip,  and  said  unto  Jesus  :  "Master, 

words  of  x 

Jesus  con-    my  in-dweller  of  light  hath  ears,  and  I 

cerning  the         J  ° 

three  wit-     am  ready  to  hear  in  my  power,  and  I 

nesses.  , 

have  understood  the  discourse   which 


FIKST   BOOK.  71 

thou  hast  uttered.  Now,  therefore,  my  Master, 
hearken  that  I  may  speak  in  freedom.  Thou 
hast  said  unto  us,  '  He  that  hath  ears  to  hear, 
let  him  hear.'  Concerning  the  discourse  which 
thou  hast  uttered  unto  Philip,  '  It  is  to  thee, 
and  Thomas,  and  Matthew,  to  whom  it  hath  been 
entrusted — to  you  three  by  the  first  mystery, 
to  write  down  every  word  of  the  kingdom  of 
light,  in  order  that  ye  may  bear  witness  thereof  ; 
hearken,  therefore,  while  I  expound  the  inter- 
pretation of  this  word,  which  thy  light-power 
prophesied  of  old  through  Moses,  saying,  '  By 
two  or  three  witnesses  everything  shall  abound.' 
The  three  witnesses  are  Philip,  Thomas,  and 
Matthew." 

It  came   to  pass,   therefore,    when  Jesus  had 
heard    these     words,    that     he     said :    Philip  is 
"Well  said,  Mary,   this  is  the  inter-   *™fZ!l 
pretation  of  the  word.     Now,  therefore,    t0  speak* 
do  thou,  Philip,   come  forward,  expound  the  in 
terpretation  of  the  mystery  of  the  fifth  repent- 
ance of  Pistis  Sophia,  and  afterward,  take  thy 
seat,  and  write  down  every  word  which  I  shall 
utter  until  thou  hast  accomplished  the  number 
which   hath  fallen  to  thy  lot,  and  which  thou 
hast  to  write  in  the  words   of  the  kingdom  of 
light.      Afterwards,    thou    shalt    come    forward, 
and  expound  what  thy  spirit  shall  have  under- 
stood.    (72)    Now,    therefore,    expound  the  in- 


72  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

terpretation  of  the  mystery  of  the  fifth  repent- 
ance of  Pistis  Sophia." 

And .  Philip  j  answered  and  said  unto  Jesus  : 
"  Master,  give  ear,  while  I  expound  the  inter- 
pretation of  her  repentance,  for  thy  power  hath 
prophesied  of  old  concerning  this  through  David, 
in  the  forty-seventh  Psalm,  saying  : 

"'0  lord,  God  of  my  salvation,  I  have  cried 
Philip  in-  unto  thee  day  and  night.  Let  my 
tnePnefthre-  Prayer  enter  into  thy  presence.  In- 
&omapsaim  c^ne  tame  ear>  0  lord,  unto  my 
xivn.  supplication,    for    my   soul    is    full   of 

evil,  and  my  life  draweth  nigh  unto  hell.  I  am 
counted  among  them  that  go  down  into  the  pit. 
I  have  become  as  a  man  who  hath  no  help. 
Free  among  the  dead,  like  unto  the  wounded, 
stretched  out  and  sleeping  in  the  tombs,  of 
whom  thou,  in  truth,  thinkest  not,  and  who  have 
been  laid  low  by  thy  hands.  They  have  left  me 
in  a  pit  below,  in  darkness  and  in  the  shadow 
of  death.  Thy  wrath  is  hard  upon  me,  and  all 
thy  disquietude  hath  come  upon  me.  (Dia- 
psalma.)  Thou  hast  put  away  mine  acquaint- 
ance far  from  me  ;  they  have  looked  on  me  as 
an  abomination.  They  have  abandoned  me, 
and  I  cannot  get  forth.  My  eye  hath  become 
feeble  in  my  poverty,  and  I  have  cried  unto  thee, 
0  lord,  the  whole  day  long ;  I  have  stretched 
forth  my  hands  unto  thee.     Wilt  thou  not  show 


FIRST   BOOK.  73 

thy  wonders  among  the  dead  ?  Shall  not  the 
physicians  arise  to  confess  thee  ?  Shall  they 
not  utter  thy  name  in  the  tombs ;  (73)  and  thy 
righteousness  in  a  land  which  thou  hast  for- 
gotten ? 

"'But  as  for  me.  I  have  cried  unto  thee, 
0  lord,  and  my  prayer  shall  reach  thee  early 
in  the  morning ;  turn  not  thy  face  far  from 
me.  For,  as  for  me,  I  am  poor,  I  am  in  misery 
from  my  childhood.  When  I  exalted  myself,  I 
was  abased  ;  but  I  have  risen  up  again.  Thy 
wrath  is  come  upon  me,  and  thy  fears  have 
troubled  me.  They  have  surrounded  me  like 
water,  they  have  seized  upon  me  the  whole  day 
long.  My  comrades  hast  thou  put  away  from 
me,  and  also  my  acquaintances,  in  my  misery.' 

"  This  is  the  interpretation  of  the  mystery  of 
the  fifth  repentance,  recited  by  Pistis  Sophia, 
when  she  was  constrained  in  chaos." 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  Jesus  had 
heard    the    words    which     Philip    had 

1  <         Philip  is 

spoken,    that    he    said :     "  Well    said,  commended 

and  con- 

Philip,    thou      well -beloved.        Now,  tinueth 
therefore,  go   and  take   thy  seat,  and 
write  thy  portion  of  all  the  words  which  I  shall 
speak,  and  of  all  things  which  I  shall  do,  and  of 
all    that    thou    shalt    see."      And    immediately 
Philip  sat  down  and  wrote. 

It  came  to  pass  again,  after  that,  that  Jesus 


74  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

continued  to  speak.  He  said  unto  his  disciples  : 
"Then  did  Pistis  Sophia  cry  to  the  light,  in 
order  that  her  sin  might  be  forgiven  her,  in 
leaving  her  region  and  going  into  the  darkness. 
She  recited  her  sixth  repentance,  saying  : 

(74)    " '  I  sing   a   song  unto   thee,   0   light, 
in  the  darkness  of  the  lower  regions ; 

The  sixth  m  & 

repentance    m  ve  ear  to  my  repentance,  and  ma}7  thy 

of  Sophia.         .  . 

light  give  heed  to  the  voice  of  my 
prayer.  0  light,  if  thou  bearest  in  mind  my 
sin,  I  shall  not  be  able  to  come  nigh  thee,  and 
thou  wilt  abandon  me  ;  for  thou,  0  light,  thou 
art  my  saviour,  because  of  the  light  of  thy  name. 
I  have  trusted  in  thee,  0  light,  and  my  power 
hath  trusted  in  thy  mystery,  and  also  my  power 
hath  trusted  in  the  light  which  is  in  the  height ; 
it  hath  trusted  also  in  the  chaos  below.  Let  all 
the  powers  which  are  in  me,  trust  in  the  light, 
while  I  am  in  the  lower  darkness  ;  may  they  also 
trust  in  the  light,  if  they  go  into  the  region  of 
the  height,  for  it  is  [the  light]  which  shall  see 
and  save  us,  and  there  is  a  great  mystery  of 
salvation  in  it.  It  is  the  light  that  shall  save 
all  the  powers  of  chaos  because  of  my  trans- 
gression, for  I  have  left  my  region.  I  am  come 
into  chaos.' 

"  Now,  therefore,  he  whose   mind  is  exalted, 
let  him  understand." 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  Jesus   had 


FIRST   BOOK.  75 

finished  speaking  these  words  unto  his  dis- 
ciples, that  he  said  :  "  Understand  ye  how  I 
speak  ? " 

And0Ln5rew)came  forward  and  said  :  "  Master, 
concerning  the  sixth  repentance  of  Pistis  Sophia, 
thy  power  hath  prophesied  of  old  through 
David,  in  the  one  hundred  and  twenty-ninth 
Psalm,  saying  : 

(75)  "  '  I  have  cried  unto  thee,  0  lord,  from 
the    depth   of  the    abyss.       Hear   my   Andrew  in- 
voice.      Let  thine  ears  give  heed  to   thePs?xth 
the   voice  of  my  prayer.     0  lord,    if  ^Psaim 
thou  remarkest  my  sins,  who  will  be   CXX1X' 
able   to  stand  ?      For  pardon  is  in  thy  hands. 
Because  of  thy  name,  I  have  waited,  0  lord.    My 
soul  hath  waited  for  thy  words ;  my  soul  hath 
trusted  in  the  lord,  from  morning  until  evening. 
Let  Israel  trust  in  the  lord  from  the  morning 
until  the  evening,  for  mercy  is  in  the  hand  of 
the  lord,  and  there  is  great  salvation  in  him   ; 
and  he  shall  redeem  Israel  from  all  his  sins.,: 

Jesus  said  unto  him :    "  Well  said,   Andrew, 
thou  blessed  one.     That  is  the  inter- 

Jesus  com- 

pretation    of  her    repentance.     Amen,    mendeth 

Andrew. 

amen,   I   say  unto  you,  I  will  perfect   He  promis- 

^  .  .      r  eththatthe 

you  m  all  the  mysteries   of  light,  and   tyrants 

iii  f  i  shall  be 

all    the    gnoses,    from    the  interior  of  judged  and 

i  ,  .  consumed 

the   interiors    to    the    exterior    of    the   by  the  fire 
exteriors,    from    the    ineffable    to    the 


76  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

darkness  of  darknesses,  and  from  the  light  of 
lights  to  the  depths  of  matter,  from  all  the  gods 
to  all  the  daemons,  from  all  the  lords  to  all  the 
decans,  from  all  the  powers  to  all  the  workmen, 
from  the  creation  of  men  to  beasts,  cattle  and 
reptiles,  in  order  that  you  may  be  called  perfect, 
perfected  in  every  perfection.  (76)  Amen,  amen, 
I  say  unto  you,  in  the  region  where  I  shall  be 
in  the  kingdom  of  my  father,  there  shall  ye  be 
also  with  me.  And  when  the  number  of  the 
perfect  shall  be  completed,  so  that  the  mixture 
may  be  resolved,  I  shall  give  order  for  them  to 
bring  all  the  tyrant  gods,  who  refused  to  give 
the  glory  of  their  light,  and  shall  give  command- 
ment to  the  fire  of  wisdom,  through  which  the 
perfect  pass,  to  consume  to  the  interior  those 
tyrants  until  they  shall  have  yielded  up  the  last 
glory  of  their  light." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  spoken  these 
Mary  inter-  words  unto  his  disciples,  that  he  said 
woerd* ofthe  unt0  them  :  "  Understand  ye  how  I 
Jesus.  speak  unto  you  ?  " 

And  (fiary)  said  unto  him  :  "  Yea,  Master,  I 
have  understood  the  word  which  thou  hast 
spoken.  Concerning,  then,  that  which  thou 
hast  said,  namely,  that  in  the  dissolution  of  the 
whole  mixture,  thou  shouldst  take  thy  seat  on  a 
light-power,  and  thy  disciples,  that  is  to  say, 
ourselves,    should    sit   at   thy    right,   that    thou 


FIRST    BOOK.  77 

shouldst  judge  the  tyrant  gods,  those  who  have 
not  given  the  glory  of  their  light,  and  that  the 
fire  of  wisdom  should  devour  them,  until  they 
should  have  yielded  the  last  light  which  is  in 
them — concerning  this  word,  thy  light-power 
prophesied  of  old  through  David,  in  the 
eighty-first  Psalm,  saying,  '  God  shall  sit  in 
the  congregation  of  the  gods,  to  judge  the 
gods.'  " 

(77)  Jesus  said  unto  her  :  "  Well  said,  Mary." 
And  Jesus  continued  to  speak  unto  his    The  repent- 
disciples,   saying :    "It    came  to   pass,    gophia is 
when  Pistis  Sophia  had  finished  recit-   ceTted*  ac* 
insr  the  sixth  repentance  for  the  remis-    She1ls, , 

°  -*■  mocked  by 

sion  of  her  sin,  that  she  turned  [again]  the  8eons- 
toward  the  height,  to  see  if  they  had  par- 
doned her  sin,  and  to  see  whether  they  would 
lead  her  upwards  from  chaos.  (But,  by  com- 
mandment of  the  first  mystery,  not  yet  had  they 
heard  her,  so  that  her  sin  should  be  pardoned, 
and  she  should  be  raised  from  chaos)  And  when 
she  turned  to  see  whether  her  repentance  were 
accepted,  she  saw  all  the  rulers  of  the  twelve 
aeons,  mocking  at  her,  and  rejoicing  that  her 
repentance  had  not  been  accepted.  When, 
therefore,  she  saw  them  mocking  at  her,  she 
was  in  great  tribulation,  and  raised  her  face 
to  the  height,  saying,  in  her  seventh  repent- 
ance : 


78  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

"  '  0  light,   I    have   lifted   up   my  face  unto 

The  thee.     0  light,  I  have  trusted  in  thee. 

repentance    Suffer  me  not  to  be  put  to  confusion  ; 
of  Sophia.     jet  nQ£  ^e  rujers  0f  ^3  twelve  aeons, 

who   hate  me,   rejoice  over  me ;  for  whosoever 
trusteth    in    thee    shall   not   be   ashamed.     Let 
them  that  have  taken  away  my  power,  dwell  in 
darkness.     They  shall  get  from  it  no  profit,  but 
it  shall  be  taken  from  their  hands.     (78)  0  light, 
teach  me  thy  paths,  and  I  shall  be  preserved  in 
them.     Teach   me  thy  ways,  that  I  may  be  pre- 
served from  the  chaos,  and  guide  me  in  thy  light. 
Let  me  know,  0  light,  that  it  is  thou  who  wilt 
be  my  saviour.     I  will  trust  in  thee  for  all  my 
time.     Apply  thyself  to  my  salvation,  0  light, 
for  thy  mercy  is  eternal.     As  to  the  transgres- 
sion which   I   have  committed,   from  the  begin- 
ning, through  my  ignorance,   impute   it   not  to 
me,  0  light,  but  save  me  in  thy  great  mystery 
that  remitteth  sins,    because  of    thy  goodness, 
0   light,   for    thou    art  good   and    righteous,   0 
light.     For  this  cause,   will  [the  light]  show  me 
my  path,  that  I  may  be  saved  from  my  trans- 
gression ;  and  my  powers  which  were  weakened 
through  fear  of  the  material  emanations  of  Arro- 
gant, shall  be  collected  from  them,  by  its  com- 
mandment.    My  powers,  which  were  weakened 
because  of  these  merciless  ones,  shall  be  instructed 
in  its  gnosis  ;  for  all  the  gnoses  of  the  light  are 


FIRST   BOOK.  79 

means  of  salvation  and  mysteries  for  those  who 
seek  the  region  of  its  inheritance  and  its  mys- 
teries, because  of  the  mystery  of  thy  name,  0 
light.  Remit  my  transgression,  for  it  is  great. 
Whoever  trusteth  in  the  light,  to  him  will  it  give 
the  mystery  that  it  will ;  and  his  soul  shall  be 
in  the  region  of  the  light,  and  his  power  shall 
have  its  portion  in  the  treasure  of  light.  (79) 
It  is  the  light  which  giveth  power  to  them  that 
believe  in  it ;  and  the  name  of  its  mystery  is 
with  them  that  trust  in  it.  It  shall  instruct 
them  concerning  the  region  of  the  inheritance 
which  is  in  the  treasure  of  light. 

"'As  for  me,  I  have  for  ever  trusted  in  thy 
light,  for  it  is  [the  light]  which  shall  preserve 
my  feet  from  the  bonds  of  the  darkness.  Give 
heed  unto  me,  0  light,  and  save  me,  for  they 
have  taken  my  name  from  me  in  chaos.  Be- 
cause of  all  the  emanations,  my  tribulations  and 
my  affliction  are  multiplied  exceedingly.  Save 
me  from  my  transgression  and  from  this  dark- 
ness, and  look  upon  the  grief  of  my  affliction. 
Remit  my  transgression.  Give  heed  to  the 
rulers  of  the  twelve  aeons  who  have  hated  me 
through  jealousy ;  watch  over  my  power  and 
save  me.  Leave  me  not  to  dwell  in  this  darkness, 
for  I  have  trusted  in  thee,  0  light.  Now,  there- 
fore, 0  light,  save  my  powers  from  the  emana- 
tions of  Arrogant,  whereby  I  am  constrained.' 


80  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

"  Now,  therefore,  he  that  is  sober,  let  him  be 
sober." 

And  when  Jesus  had  spoken  these  things  to 
his  disciples,  \  Thomas]  came  forward  and  said  : 
"  Master,  I  am  sober,  I  am  more  than  sober,  and 
my  mind  is  quick  in  me,  and  I  rejoice  greatly 
that  thou  hast  revealed  these  things  unto  us. 
Now,  therefore,  I  have  endured  my  brethren 
unto  this  moment,  for  I  have  felt  no  wrath 
against  them,  but  I  have  endured  that  each  of 
them  should  come  to  thee  and  expound  the  in- 
terpretation of  the  repentance  of  Pistis  Sophia. 
.  .  .  (80)  Now,  therefore,  my  Master,  concerning 
the  interpretation  of  the  seventh  repentance  of 
Pistis  Sophia,  thy  light-power  hath  prophesied 
through  David,  the  prophet,  in  the  twenty- 
fourth   Psalm,   saying  : 

"  '  Unto  thee,  0  lord,  have  I  lifted  up  my 
Thomas  in-  soul-  My  God,  I  have  placed  my 
tnePseventh  heart  in  thee.  0  let  me  not  be  asham- 
from^saim  ec^  an(^  ^  not  mme  enemies  mock 
XX1V*  at  me  ;  for  whosoever  hopeth  in  thee 

shall  not  be  ashamed.  Let  them  who  do 
iniquity  without  a  cause,  be  ashamed.  Show 
me  thy  path,  0  lord,  and  teach  me  thy  ways. 
Lead  me  in  the  way  of  truth,  and  teach  me,  for 
thou  art  my  God,  and  my  saviour.  I  will  hope 
in  thee  all  the  day  long.  Call  to  remembrance, 
0  lord,  thy  mercies,  and  thy  loving-kindnesses 


FIRST   BOOK.  81 

which  have  been  ever  of  old.  0  remember  not 
the  sins  of  my  childhood  and  my  ignorance. 
But  think  upon  me  according  to  the  abundance 
of  thy  mercy,  because  of  thy  goodness,  0  lord. 
The  lord  is  gracious  and  righteous ;  therefore 
shall  he  teach  sinners  in  the  way.  (81)  He  will 
guide  the  gentle  with  judgment,  he  will  teach 
the  gentle  his  ways.  All  the  ways  of  the  lord 
are  good,  in  sooth,  for  them  that  seek  his 
righteousness  and  his  testimonies.  For  thy 
name's  sake,  0  lord,  pardon  my  sin,  for  it  is 
very  great.  What  man  is  he  who  feareth  the 
lord,  with  him  shall  he  establish  a  law  in  the 
way  he  shall  choose.  His  soul  shall  dwell  at 
ease,  and  his  seed  shall  inherit  the  land.  The 
lord  is  the  support  of  them  that  fear  him  ;  and 
the  name  of  the  lord  is  with  them  that  fear 
him,  to  teach  them  his  covenant.  Mine  eyes 
gaze  upon  the  lord  for  ever,  for  it  is  he  who 
shall  pluck  my  feet  out  of  the  snare.  Look 
upon  me,  have  mercy  upon  me,  for  I  am  an  only 
son,  I  am  a  beggar,  I.  The  sorrows  of  my  heart 
are  enlarged  ;  0  bring  me  out  of  my  constraints. 
Look  upon  my  abasement,  my  misery,  and  for- 
give me  all  my  sin.  Consider  mine  enemies, 
how  many  they  are.  and  they  hate  me  with 
cruel  hatred.  0  guard  my  soul,  and  save  me  ; 
let  me  not  be  ashamed,  for  I  have  hoped  in  thee. 
(82)  The  simple  and  the  righteous  clung  to  me, 


82  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

for  I  hoped  in  thee.  0  lord  God,  preserve 
Israel  from  all  her  troubles.' : 

And  when  Jesus  had  heard  the  words  of 
Jesus  com-   Thomas,    he   said    unto    him :    "  Well 

mendeth  . 

Thomas.  said,  Thomas  ;  it  is  well.  This  is  the 
interpretation  of  the  seventh  repentance  of  Pistis 
Sophia.  Amen,  amen,  I  say  unto  you,  all  the 
families  of  the  world  shall  proclaim  you  blessed 
on  the  earth,  because  I  have  revealed  unto  you 
these  things,  and  that  ye  have  received  of  my 
spirit,  and  have  become  understanding  and 
spiritual,  comprehending  that  which  I  have  said 
unto  you.  Beyond  this,  I  will  fill  you  with  all 
the  light  and  all  the  power  of  the  spirit,  in 
order  that  ye  may  understand  from  this  hour 
all  that  shall  be  said  unto  you,  and  which  ye 
shall  see.  Yet  a  little  while  and  I  will  tell  you 
all  that  pertains  to  the  height  from  the  exterior 
to  the  interior,  and  from  the  interior  to  the 
exterior." 

And  Jesus  continued  in  his  conversation,  and 
Jesus  lead-  said  unto  his  disciples  :  "It  came  to 
to  a  less  ia  pass,  therefore,  when  Pistis  Sophia  had 
region!  but  uttered  her  seventh  repentance  in  the 
^mmanas6   cnaos>  that  although  the  commandment 

nrstmys^6    nad    not    COme     t0     me     fr0m     tlie    firSt 

tery.  mystery  to  save  her,  (83)  and  lead  her 

upwards  in  the  chaos,  nevertheless,  I,  of  myself, 
in  pity,  without  commandment,  1  conducted  her 


FIRST   BOOK.  83 

into  a  region  slightly  less  confined  in  chaos.  And 
when  the  material  emanations  of  Arrogant  saw 
that  I  had  conducted  her  into  a  region  slightly 
less  confined  in  chaos,  they  ceased  for  a  time  to 
constrain  her,  thinking  that  she  would  be  taken 
out  of  chaos  entirely.  Now,  when  this  was 
done,  Pistis  Sophia  knew  not  that  it  was  I  who 
was  bringing  her  help,  and  she  did  not  recognise 
me  at  all,  but  she  continued  singing  a  song  to 
the  light  of  the  treasure,  which  she  had  seen  of 
old,  and  in  which  she  had  trusted,  thinking  that 
it  was  the  light  of  truth,  and  that  it  was 
because  she  had  trusted  in  the  light  which 
belongeth  to  the  truth  of  the  treasure,  that  there- 
fore she  had  been  taken  up  in  the  chaos,  and 
her  repentance  would  be  accepted.  But  the 
commandment  of  the  first  mystery  was  not  yet 
fulfilled  for  her  repentance  to  be  accepted. 

"  But  hearken  while  I  tell  you  all  things  that 
happened  unto  Pistis  Sophia.     It  came 

rjr  r  The  ema- 

to  pass,  when  I  had  led  her  to  a  region   nations  of 

Arrogant 

slightly  less  confined  in  chaos,  that  the   cease  for  a 

time  to 

emanations  of  Arrogant  ceased  to  con-    constrain 

,  .. .  .  Sophia. 

strain  her  exceedingly,  thinking  that 
she  would  be  taken  out  of  chaos  entirely.  (84) 
It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  the  emanations 
of  Arrogant  discovered  that  Pistis  Sophia  had 
not  been  taken  out  of  chaos,  they  returned  all 
together    constraining   her   exceedingly.       And, 


84  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

therefore,  she  uttered  her  eighth  repentance,  in 
that  they  had  ceased  to  constrain  her,  and  that 
they  had  returned,  and  again  constrained  her 
mightily.  And  she  spake  this  repentance, 
saying  : 

" '  I  have  placed  my  heart  on  thee,  0  light, 
The  eighth   leave  me  not  in  the  chaos.     Save  me 

repentance 

of  Sophia,  and  deliver  me  by  thy  gnosis.  Give 
heed  unto  me  and  save  me.  Be  unto  me  a 
saviour,  0  light,  and  preserve  me ;  lead  me 
unto  thy  light,  for  thou  art  my  saviour,  and 
thou  shalt  lead  me  unto  thee.  Because  of  the 
mystery  of  thy  name,  lead  me  ;  give  unto  me 
thy  mystery.  Thou  shalt  save  me  from  this 
lion-faced  power,  with  which  they  have  lain  in 
wait  for  me,  for  thou  art  my  saviour  ;  and  I  will 
give  the  glory  of  my  light  into  thy  hands. 
Thou  shalt  have  set  me  free,  0  light,  by  thy 
gnosis.  Thou  art  wroth  with  them  that  watch 
over  me,  who  could  not  possess  themselves  of 
me  entirely.  But  as  for  me,  I  have  trusted  in 
the  light,  I  will  rejoice  ;  I  will  sing  a  song,  for 
thou  hast  been  compassionate  unto  me,  and  thou 
hast  considered  the  affliction  in  which  I  am, 
and  shalt  save  me.  Moreover,  thou  shalt  deliver 
my  power  from  chaos,  and  thou  hast  not  left 
me  in  the  hands  of  the  lion-faced  power,  but 
thou  hast  led  me  into  a  region  where  I  am  not 
constrained.' " 


FIRST   BOOK.  85 

And  when  Jesus  had  said  these  things  unto 
his  disciples,   he  continued  in  his  con- 

i  #  The  ema- 

versation,  and  said  :  "It  came  to  pass,   nations  of 

Arrogant 

therefore,  when  that  lion-faced  power  constrain 
discovered  that  Pistis  Sophia  had  not 
been  taken  entirely  out  of  chaos,  (85)  that  it 
came  again  with  all  the  other  material  emanations 
of  Arrogant.  They  constrained  Pistis  Sophia 
anew.  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  they 
had  constrained  her,  that  she  cried  out  in  the 
same  repentance,  saying  : 

"  '  Have  mercy  upon  me,  0  light,  for  they 
have  constrained  me  anew.  By  thy  she  con- 
commandment,  the  light  which  is  in  S^J. 
me,  hath  been  troubled,  and  so  also  ance- 
my  power  and  mind.  My  power  hath  begun 
to  cease,  while  I  am  in  these  afflictions,  and  the 
number  of  my  time  is  in  chaos.  My  light  is 
enfeebled,  for  they  have  taken  away  my  power, 
and  all  the  powers  which  were  in  me  have  been 
tossed  about.  I  am  become  without  power 
before  all  the  rulers  of  the  aeons,  who  hate  me, 
and  before  the  four  and  twenty  emanations  in 
whose  region  I  dwell.  And  my  brother,  my 
consort,  feared  to  help  me,  because  of  those 
among  whom  I  have  been  set ;  and  all  the  rulers 
of  the  height  have  regarded  me  as  matter  in  which 
there  is  no  light.  I  am  become  like  a  material 
power  which  hath    fallen  from  the  rulers,  and 


86  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

of  whom  all  they  who  dwell  in  the  aeons  have 
said,  "  She  hath  become  chaos."  And  then  all 
the  pitiless  powers  surrounded  me  together, 
and  plotted  to  take  away  all  the  light  which  was 
in  me.  But  as  for  me,  I  have  trusted  in  thee, 
0  light,  and  I  have  said,  "  Thou  art  my  saviour, 
and  the  commandment  which  thou  hast  decreed 
for  me  is  in  thy  hands."  Save  me  from  the 
hands  of  the  emanations  of  Arrogant,  who  con- 
strain me,  and  persecute  me.  Send  thy  light 
upon  me,  for  I  am  as  nothing  before  thee,  (86) 
and  save  me  by  thy  mercies.  Let  me  not  be 
ashamed ;  for  it  is  to  thee  that  I  sing  my  song, 
0  light.  Let  chaos  cover  the  emanations  of 
Arrogant,  let  them  be  led  down  into  the  dark- 
ness. Let  the  mouth  of  them  that  wish  to 
devour  me  with  guile,  who  say,  "  Let  us  take 
all  the  light  that  is  in  her,"  although  I  have 
done  them  no  ill,  [let  their  mouth]  be  stopped.'1 

And  when  Jesus  had  spoken  these  things, 
Matthew  came  forward,  and  said  :  "  Master,  thy 
spirit  hath  roused  me,  and  thy  light  moveth  me 
to  reveal  this  eighth  repentance  of  Pistis  Sophia, 
for  thy  power  hath  prophesied  thereof  of  old 
through  David,  in  the  thirtieth  Psalm,  saying  : 

'"On  thee,  0  Lord,  have  I  set  my  heart,  let 
me  never  be  ashamed ;  save  me  in  thy  righteous- 
ness. Incline  thine  ear  unto  me,  haste  thee, 
save   me.      Be    thou    unto    me    a   strong    God, 


FIRST   BOOK.  87 

and  a  house  of  refuge  to  save  me,  for  thou  art 
my  support  and  my  refuge.  For  thy  Matthew 
name's  sake  thou  shalt  guide  me,  and  ethtiufre- 
thou  shalt  feed  me,  and  thou  shalt  draw  ^apgaim 
me  out  of  this  snare,  which  they  xxx* 
have  laid  privily  for  me ;  for  thou  art  my 
strength.  I  will  place  my  spirit  in  thy  hands  ; 
thou  hast  preserved  me,  0  lord,  God  of  truth. 
(87)  Thou  hatest  them  that  hold  to  vanity  with- 
out a  cause.  But  as  for  me,  I  have  trusted,  and 
I  shall  rejoice  in  my  saviour.  I  shall  be  glad  in 
thy  spirit,  for  thou  hast  regarded  my  humble- 
ness, and  thou  hast  saved  my  soul  from  my  con- 
straints. Thou  hast  not  closed  my  mouth,  in 
the  hands  of  the  wicked,  thou  hast  planted  my 
feet  steadily  in  a  spacious  region.  Have  mercy 
upon  me,  0  lord,  for  I  am  in  tribulation.  My 
eye  is  confused  because  of  their  anger,  and  also 
my  heart ;  for  my  years  have  been  spent  in 
sadness  of  heart,  and  my  life  is  spent  in  groan- 
ing. My  strength  is  enfeebled  in  poverty,  and 
my  bones  are  troubled.  I  am  become  an  object 
of  derision  for  all  my  enemies  and  them  that 
draw  nigh  unto  me.  (88)1  am  become  an  object 
of  fear  for  them  who  knew  me,  and  they  who  have 
seen  me,  have  fled  far  from  me.  They  have 
forgotten  me  in  their  heart  as  a  corpse,  and  I 
have  been  as  a  vessel  that  is  lost.  For  I  have 
heard  the  cursing  of  the  hosts  that  surrounded 


88  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

me,  when  they  all  massed  themselves  together 
against  me ;  they  laid  plots  to  take  away  my 
soul.  But  as  for  me,  I  have  trusted  in  thee,  0 
lord,  I  have  said,  "  Thou  art  my  God,  my  lot 
is  in  thy  hands."  Save  me  from  the  hand  of 
mine  enemies,  and  deliver  me  from  them  that 
persecute  me.  Show  thy  face  unto  thy  servant, 
and  save  me  in  thy  mercy,  0  lord.  Let  me 
not  be  ashamed,  for  I  have  cried  unto  thee. 
Let  the  unrighteous  be  ashamed,  and  let  them 
descend  into  hell.  Let  the  crafty  lips  be  put 
to  silence,  which  speak  iniquity  against  the 
righteous  with  pride  and  cursing." 

And  when  Jesus  had  heard  these  words,  he 
Jesus  com-    said  :     "  Well    said,    Matthew.        (89) 

mendeth         -xt  j_i  e  t 

Matthew,  JNow,  therefore,  amen,  1  say  unto  you, 
misethhis  when  the  number  of  the  perfect  shall  be 
thaTthey  fulfilled,  and  when  the  pleroma  shall 
throned  °n  r^se  upwards,  I  shall  take  my  seat  in 
with  him.  .^  treasure  of  light,  and  ye  also,  ye 
shall  take  your  seats  on  twelve  light- 
powers,  until  ye  shall  have  restored  all  the 
orders  of  the  twelve  saviours  in  the  region  of  the 
inheritance  pertaining  to  each  of  them."  And 
when  he  had  spoken  these  things,  he  said : 
"  Understand  ye  what  I  say  ? " 

And  Mary  came  forward  again,  and  said : 
"  Master,  on  this  matter  thou  hast  spoken  to 
us    aforetime  in    parable,     '  Ye    have    endured 


FIRST   BOOK.  89 

trials  with  me,  and  I  will  establish  for  you  a 
kingdom,  as  my  father  established  one  Mary  inter. 
for  me,  that  ye  may  eat  and  drink  words  of*  e 
at  my  table  in  my  kingdom ;  and  ye  Jesus' 
shall  sit  on  twelve  thrones,  to  judge  the  twelve 
tribes  of  Israel/ "  He  said  unto  her  :  "  Well 
said,  Mary." 

And  elesus  continued  again  and  said  unto  his 
disciples :  "It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  after 
this,  when  the  emanations  of  Arrogant  had 
constrained  Pistis  Sophia  in  chaos,  that  she 
uttered  her  ninth  repentance,  saying  : 

"  '  0  light,  smite  them  that  have  taken  away 
my  power,  and  take  the  power  of  them   The  ninth 

repentance 

that  have  taken  mine ;  for  I  am  thy  of  Sophia. 
power  and  thy  light.  Come  [unto  me],  and 
save  me.  (90)  Let  the  great  darkness  cover 
them  that  constrain  me.  Say  unto  my  power, 
"  I  will  set  thee  free."  Let  all  them  be  deprived 
of  their  power,  who  wish  to  take  away  my 
light  entirely.  Let  their  power  be  as  dust ;  let 
Ieou,  thy  angel,  smite  them.  And  if  they  shall 
endeavour  to  go  into  the  height,  let  the  darkness 
seize  them ;  let  them  fall,  let  them  return  into 
the  chaos.  Let  thy  angel  Ieou  pursue  them  ;  let 
him  cast  them  down  into  the  lower  darkness. 
For  they  have  set  snares  for  me  with  a  lion-faced 
power,  although  I  have  done  them  no  ill,  [a 
power]  from  which  shall  be  taken  the  light  that 


90  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

is  in  it.  They  have  constrained  the  power  that 
is  in  me,  and  which  they  could  not  take.  Now, 
therefore,  0  light,  take  away  the  glory  of  the 
lion-faced  power,  without  its  knowing,  and  for 
the  thought  which  Arrogant  hath  had  to  take 
my  light,  take  from  him  also  his  [light].  Let 
the  light  be  taken  from  the  lion-faced  power, 
which  hath  laid  snares  for  me.  My  own  power 
shall  rejoice  in  the  light,  it  shall  be  glad  ;  for 
[the  light]  shall  preserve  it,  and  all  the  rays  of 
my  power  shall  say,  "  There  is  no  saviour  but 
thee  "  ;  for  thou  shalt  save  me  from  the  hands 
of  this  lion-faced  power  which  hath  taken  my 
power  from  me.  Thou  preservest  me  from  them 
that  have  taken  away  my  power  and  my  light ; 
for  they  have  risen  against  me,  they  have  lied 
against  me,  saying  (91)  that  I  know  the  mys- 
tery of  the  light  which  is  in  the  height,  [the  light] 
in  which  I  trusted  ;  and  they  have  constrained 
me,  saying,  "Tell  unto  us  the  mysteries  of  the 
light  which  is  in  the  height " — [a  thing]  which 
I  knew  not.  They  have  recompensed  me  with 
all  these  evils,  because  I  trusted  in  the  light  of 
the  height ;  and  they  have  deprived  my  power 
of  its  light.  As  for  me,  when  they  constrained 
me,  I  was  seated  in  the  darkness,  my  soul 
humbled  in  mourning. 

"  '  But  do  thou,  0  light,  to  whom  I  sing  my 
song,  deliver  me  ;  I  know  that  thou  wilt  deliver 


FIRST   BOOK.  91 

me,  for  I  acted  according  to  thy  will,  when  I 
was  in  my  aeon.  I  did  according  to  thy  will, 
like  those  invisibles  who  are  in  my  region,  and 
as  my  consort.  And  I  was  in  grief,  looking, 
searching  for  the  light.  Now,  therefore,  all  the 
emanations  of  Arrogant  have  surrounded  me, 
they  have  rejoiced  over  me,  and  have  mightily 
constrained  me  in  my  ignorance.  They  fled 
away,  they  left  me,  but  they  had  no  pity  upon 
me  ;  they  returned,  they  tried  me,  they  con- 
strained me  in  great  affliction ;  they  gnashed 
their  teeth  against  me,  seeking  to  take  away  my 
light  completely.  How  long,  therefore,  0  light, 
wilt  thou  suffer  them  to  constrain  me  ?  Save 
my  power  from  their  evil  imaginations,  and  save 
^me  from  the  hands  of  this  lion-faced  power  ;  for 
I^alone  of  the  invisibles  am,  in  this  region.  (92) 
I  will  sing  a  song  unto  thee,  0  light,  though  I 
am  in  the  midst  of  all  them  that  are  massed 
together  against  me ;  I  will  cry  unto  thee 
in  the  midst  of  them  that  constrain  me. 
Now,  therefore,  0  light,  let  not  them  that  hate 
me,  and  desire  to  take  away  my  power,  rejoice 
over  me — them  that  hate  me  and  flash  their 
eyes  against  me,  though  I  have  done  nothing 
unto  them  ;  for  they  have  spoken  flattering 
words  unto  me,  asking  for  the  mysteries  of  the 
light  which  I  knew  not ;  speaking  unto  me  with 
guile,  and  being  enraged  against  me,  because  I 


92  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

trusted  in  the  light  which  is  in  the  height. 
They  have  opened  their  mouth  against  me, 
saying,  "  Yea,  we  will  take  from  her  her  light." 
Now,  therefore,  0  light,  thou  knowest  their 
guile ;  suffer  them  not,  and  let  not  thy  help  be 
far  from  me.  Haste  thee,  0  light,  bring  about 
my  retribution  and  my  vindication,  and  judge 
me  in  thy  goodness.  Now,  therefore,  0  light 
of  lights,  let  them  not  take  away  my  light,  and 
let  them  not  say  among  themselves,  "  Our  power 
is  glutted  with  her  light."  Let  them  not  say, 
"  We  have  devoured  her  power."  But  let  dark- 
ness fall  upon  them,  let  them  that  desire  to  take 
away  my  light,  become  without  power  ;  let  them 
be  clothed  with  chaos  and  darkness,  who  say, 
"We  will  take  away  her  light  and  her  power." 
Now,  therefore,  save  me  that  I  may  rejoice,  for 
I  long  for  the  thirteenth  seon,  the  place  of 
righteousness,  and  I  shall  say  for  ever,  (93) 
"  May  the  light  of  thy  messenger  Ieou  shine 
more  and  more,"  and  my  tongue  shall  sing  a 
song  in  thy  gnosis  all  my  time  in  the  thirteenth 
aeon. 

And  when  Jesus  had  said  these  words  unto 
his  disciples,  he  said  unto  them  :  "  Let  him 
who  is  sober  among  you,  utter  their  interpreta- 
tion."     

And  J  James]  came  forward,  and  kissed  the 
breast  of  Jesus,  and   said  :   "  Master,  my  spirit 


FIRST   BOOK.  93 

hath  moved  me,  and  I  am  eager  to  pronounce 
their  interpretation.  For  this  cause  also  thy 
power  hath  prophesied  of  old,  through  David, 
in  the  thirty-fourth  Psalm,  saying  concerning 
the  ninth  repentance  of  Pistis  Sophia  : 

"  '  Pronounce  judgment,  0  lord,  against  them 
that  do  me  violence ;  and  fight  thou  james  in- 
against  them  that  fight  against  me.  t^P repent- 
Lay  hand  on  arm  and  buckler,  and  Psaknr°m 
stand  up  to  help  me.  Draw  forth  a  XXX1V- 
sword,  and  sheathe  it  in  them  that  constrain  me. 
Say  unto  my  soul,  "  1  am  thy  salvation."  Let 
them  be  ashamed  and  confounded  who  seek 
after  my  soul ;  let  them  be  turned  backward 
and  put  to  shame  who  imagine  evils  against 
me  ;  let  them  become  as  dust  before  the  wind, 
(94)  and  let  the  angel  of  the  lord  pursue  after 
them.  Let  their  way  be  dark  and  slippery,  and 
let  the  angel  of  the  lord  constrain  them ;  for 
without  cause  have  they  privily  set  a  snare  for 
me  for  their  own  hurt,  and  they  have  mocked 
at  my  soul  in  vain.  Let  a  snare  come  upon 
them  unawares,  and  let  the  nets  that  they  have 
privily  laid  for  me,  seize  hold  upon  them ; 
and  they  shall  fall  into  this  snare.  But  my 
soul  shall  rejoice  in  the  lord,  and  shall  be  joyful 
in  his  salvation.  All  my  bones  shall  say, 
"  Lord,  who  is  like  unto  thee  ? "  Thou  pre- 
servest  the  poor  from  the  hand  of  him  who  is 


94  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

too  strong  for  him,  (95)  and  thou  deliverest  the 
poor  and  him  that  is  in  misery  from  the  hands 
of  them  that  spoil  him.  False  witnesses  did 
rise  up ;  they  asked  me  things  that  I  never 
knew.  They  rewarded  me  evil  for  good,  to  the 
making  sterile  of  my  soul.  But  as  for  me, 
when  they  were  violent  against  me,  I  put  on 
sackcloth,  and  I  humbled  my  soul  in  fasting, 
and  my  prayer  shall  return  unto  my  bosom. 
1  did  that  which  pleased  thee,  as  though  to  one 
of  my  kinsmen  and  my  brother  ;  and  I  humbled 
myself  as  one  in  mourning  and  one  who  is  sad. 
But  they  rejoiced  over  me,  and  they  were  not 
ashamed.  Evils  have  poured  themselves  upon 
me  unawares ;  they  held  apart  from  me  and 
were  not  sad.  They  have  tried  me  and  railed 
at  me  with  mocking ;  (96)  they  have  gnashed 
their  teeth  against  me. 

" '  Lord,  when  wilt  thou  look  upon  me  ? 
Cause  my  soul  to  stand  out  of  their  evil 
deeds,  and  save  my  sweet  offspring  from  the 
lions.  I  will  confess  thee,  0  lord,  in  the  great 
assembly,  and  I  will  praise  thee  in  the  midst  of 
a  countless  people.  0  let  not  them  that  are  my 
violent  enemies,  rejoice  over  me,  them  that  hate 
me  without  a  cause  and  wink  with  their  eyes ;  for 
assuredly  they  have  spoken  unto  me  with  words 
of  peace,  and  imagined  wrath  with  guile.  They 
opened    their  mouths  wide  against  me,  saying, 


FIEST   BOOK.  95 

"  Ha,  ha !  our  eyes  are  filled  with  the  sight  of 
him."  Thou  hast  seen,  0  lord.  0  lord,  keep 
no  longer  silence ;  go  not  far  from  me,  0  lord. 
(97)  Arise,  0  lord  ;  give  heed  to  my  retribu- 
tion ;  give  heed  to  my  vindication,  my  God  and 
my  lord.  Let  them  not  rejoice  over  me,  0  my 
God,  and  let  them  not  say,  "  Well  done,  our 
soul."  Let  them  not  say,  "  We  have  devoured 
him."  Let  them  be  ashamed,  and  let  them 
be  also  confounded,  who  rejoice  at  my  evils. 
Let  them  be  covered  with  shame  and  confusion 
who  speak  great  words  against  me.  Let  them 
that  favour  my  righteousness,  rejoice  and  be 
glad ;  let  them  say,  "  May  the  lord  be  great "  ; 
let  them  be  exalted  who  desire  the  peace 
of  his  servants.  My  tongue  shall  be  joyful 
in  thy  righteousness  and  praise  all  the  day 
long.'  " 

(98)    And   when    James    had    spoken    these 
words,  Jesus  said   unto    him :    "  Well   jesus  com- 
said  ;    it  is  well,  James.     This  is  the   james,  and 
interpretation  of  the  ninth  repentance   theTrst 
of  Pistis  Sophia.     Amen,  amen,  I  say   theCdis-n 
unto  you,  ye  shall  be  the  first  in  the   clples- 
kingdom  of  the  heavens  before  all  the  invisibles 
and  all   the  gods,  save  only  the  rulers  who  are 
in  the  thirteenth  aeon,  and  they  who  are  in  the 
twelfth  seon  ;  and  not  only  ye,  but  also   every 
one  who  shall  do  my  mysteries."     And  when  he 


96  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

had  thus  spoken,  he  said  unto  them:  ''Under- 
stand ye  how  I  speak  unto  you  ? " 

And  [Mary  J  came  forward  again  and  said  : 
Mary  inter-  "Yea,  Master,  this  is  what  thou  didst 
woerdfofthe  say  to  us  aforetime,  to  wit,  '  The  last 
Jesus.  shall  be  first,   and  the    first  shall    be 

last.'  The  first,  they  who  were  created  before 
us,  therefore,  are  the  invisibles,  for  they  were 
created  before  men,  they  and  the  gods,  and  the 
rulers ;  and  the  men  who  shall  receive  the 
mystery  shall  be  with  them  in  the  region  of 
the  heavens." 

Jesus  said  unto  her  :  "  Well  said,  Mary." 
And    Jesus    continued     and    said    unto    his 
The  repent-   disciples  i    "It   came    to    pass,   there- 

ance  of  *■  x 

Sophiais      fore     when  Pistis   Sophia  had  recited 

accepted.  L 

Jesus  is  her  ninth  repentance,  that  this  lion- 
sent  to 

help  her.  faced  power  compressed  her  again, 
wishing  to  take  from  her  the  whole  power  which 
was  in  her.  She  cried  out  again  to  the  light, 
saying  :  (99)  '0  light,  in  whom  I  have  trusted 
from  the  beginning,  for  thy  sake  have  I  endured 
this  great  affliction  ;  aid  me.'  And  in  this  hour 
her  repentance  was  accepted,  the  first  mystery 
heard  her,  and  I  was  sent  by  his  commandment ; 
I  came  and  helped  her ;  I  led  her  out  of  chaos, 
in  that  she  had  repented  and  that  she  had  also 
trusted  in  the  light ;  that  she  had  endured  these 
great  tribulations  and  these  great  perils  ;  that 


FIRST   BOOK.  97 

they  had  tried  to  deceive  her  by  the  orders  of 
this  god  Arrogant,  and  had  not  been  able  to 
deceive  her  in  anything,  save  by  a  stream  of 
light,  because  of  its  resemblance  to  the  light  in 
which  she  had  trusted.  For  this  cause  was  I 
sent  by  order  of  the  first  mystery,  to  succour 
her  in  secret,  for  I  had  not  yet  [openly]  entered 
the  region  of  the  aeons ;  but  I  had  passed 
through  the  midst  of  them,  without  any  power 
knowing  it,  either  those  of  the  interior  of  the 
interior,  or  those  of  the  exterior  of  the  exterior, 
save  only  the  first  mystery. 

"  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  on  my  entering 
into  chaos  to  succour  her,  that  she  saw  me,  in- 
asmuch as  I  was  of  an  intellectual  (noeric)  nature, 
and  shone  exceedingly  ;  and  I  was  full  of  com- 
passion for  her,  for  I  was  not  arrogant  like  that 
lion -faced  power  which  had  taken  from  Sophia 
the  power  of  her  light,  and  which  still  constrained 
her  to  take  from  her  the  wdiole  light  which  was 
in  her.  Sophia,  therefore,  saw  me  shining  more 
brightly  than  that  power,  tens  of  thousands  of 
times  ;  [she  saw  that  I  was]  full  of  compassion 
for  her,  (100)  and  she  knew  that  I  had  come 
forth  from  the  height  of  the  heights,  from  him 
in  whose  light  she  had  trusted  from  the  begin- 
ning. Pistis  Sophia,  therefore,  took  con- 
fidence, and  uttered  her  tenth  repentance, 
saying  : 


^ 


:. 


j 


98  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

"  '  I  have  cried  unto  thee,  0  light  of  lights  ; 
The  tenth     save  my  power   from   the    lips   of  the 

repentance  .    ,  ,       .         .  -,     r 

of  Sophia,  unrighteous  and  impious,  and  trom 
the  snares  of  guile.  0  light,  that  which  they 
would  have  taken  from  me  by  perfidious  snares, 
they  would  not  have  brought  unto  thee ;  for 
the  snares  of  Arrogant  are  scattered  about,  and 
so  are  the  traps  of  these  merciless  ones.  Woe 
is  me,  for  my  dwelling  is  far  off,  and  I  am  in 
the  habitations  of  chaos.  My  power  is  in  regions 
which  are  not  mine,  and  I  ha^ve  entreated  them 
that  are  without  pity  ;  and  when  I  entreated 
them,  they  fought  against  me  without  a  cause.' ' 

And  when  Jesus  had  spoken  these  things  unto 
his  disciples,  he  said  unto  them  :  "  Now,  there- 
fore, let  him  whose  spirit  urgeth  him,  come 
forward,  and  utter  the  interpretation  of  this 
tenth  repentance  of  Pistis  Sophia." 

And  [  PeterJ  answered  and  said:  "  Master, 
concerning  this,  thy  light-power  prophesied  of 
old  through  David,  in  the  one  hundred  and 
nineteenth  Psalm,  saying  : 

"  '  When  I  was  in  peril,  I  cried  unto  thee, 
Peter  inter-    0    lord ;     and    thou    hast    heard    me. 

preteth  the     /  in 

repentance  (101)  U  lord,  save  my  soul  irom 
cxix.  violent     lips     and     from     a    deceitful 

tongue.  What  will  they  give  unto  thee,  or 
what  will  they  add  unto  thee,  like  unto  a  de- 
ceitful  tongue  ?     The    arrows    of  the    powerful 


FIRST   BOOK.  99 

have  been  whetted  with  coals  of  the  desert. 
Woe  is  me,  for  my  dwelling  is  far  off.  I  have 
dwelt  in  the  habitations  of  Kedar ;  my  soul 
hath  been  a  stranger  in  many  regions.  I  was 
peaceful  with  them  that  hate  peace  ;  if  I  spake 
unto  them,  they  fought  against  me  without  a 
cause.' 

"  This,  0  Saviour,  is  the  interpretation  of  the 
tenth  repentance  of  Pistis  Sophia,  which  she 
uttered  when  the  material  emanations  of  Arro- 
gant constrained  her,  they  and  his  lion-faced 
power,  and  when  they  mightily  constrained  her." 

And  Jesus  said  unto  him  :  "  Well  said,  Peter  ; 
it  is    well.       This   is    the    interpreta-   Jesus  com- 

p      i  i  p  -n-      •       mendeth 

tion  oi  the  tenth  repentance  oi  ristis   Peter. 
Sophia." 

And  Jesus  continued  in  his  conversation,  and 
said  unto  his  disciples  :  "It  came  to  pass,  there- 
fore, when  this  lion-faced  power  saw  me  draw 
nigh  unto  Pistis  Sophia,  shining  exceedingly,  that 
it  became  the  more  and  more  enraged,  and  cast 
forth  from  itself  other  hosts  of  exceedingly  evil 
emanations.  And  when  these  were  produced, 
Pistis  Sophia  uttered  her  eleventh  repentance, 
saying : 

"  '  Why  doth  this  mighty  power   boast  itself 
in  evils  ?     It  thought  to  take  away  my   The 
light  for  all  time,  like  the  iron  that  is   repentance 
smitten ;    they    have    taken    away  my   °    op 


100  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

power  from  me.  (102)  I  chose  rather  to  de- 
scend into  chaos  than  to  dwell  in  the  thirteenth 
aeon,  the  region  of  righteousness ;  and  they 
desired  to  take  me  with  guile,  in  order  to  de- 
vour the  whole  of  my  light.  For  this  cause, 
therefore,  the  light  shall  take  away  the  whole  of 
their  light ;  all  their  matter  hath  been  in  con- 
fusion also ;  and  it  will  take  away  their  light, 
and  not  suffer  it  to  dwell  in  the  thirteenth  aeon, 
their  dwelling  place.  It  shall  not  set  their  name 
in  the  region  of  the  living ;  and  the  four  and 
twenty  emanations  shall  see  what  hath  befallen 
thee,  0  lion-faced  power,  that  they  may  fear 
and  no  longer  be  disobedient,  but  yield  the 
glory  of  their  light.  And  they  shall  see  thee  ; 
they  shall  rejoice  over  thee,  they  shall  say, 
"  Lo,  an  emanation  which  hath  not  given  the 
glory  of  its  light,  that  it  may  be  saved  ;  but 
boasteth  itself  in  the  abundance  of  the  light  of  its 
power,  for  it  did  not  project  in  the  power  which 
was  in  it,  and  hath  said,  '  I  will  take  away  the 
light  of  Pistis  Sophia,'  which  [light]  they  will 
now  take  from  it."  ' 

"  Now,  therefore,  let  him  in  whom  his  power 
is  aroused,  come  forward,  and  utter  the  inter- 
pretation of  the  eleventh  repentance  of  Pistis 
Sophia." 


^ 


Then;  Salome  came  forward,  and  said  :  "  Mas- 
ter, concerning  this  thy  light-power  prophesied 


FIRST   BOOK.  101 

of  old,  through  David,  in  the  fifty-first  Psalm, 
saying : 

"  '  Why  doth  the  mighty  boast  himself  in  his 
iniquity?  (103)  Thy  tongue  hath  im-  Salome  in- 
agined  violence  all  the  day  long,  like   the  repent- 

ni  n       i         i  mi  i  ance  fr°m 

the  sharp  razor  ol  a  barber.  Inou  hast  Psalm  n. 
acted  guilefully ;  thou  lovedst  evil  more  than 
good ;  thou  lovedst  violence  more  than  to  speak 
righteousness  ;  thou  hast  loved  all  words  that 
bring  about  destruction,  and  a  deceitful  tongue. 
Wherefore  shall  God  destroy  thee  utterly,  he 
shall  pluck  thee  forth  and  uproot  thee  from  thy 
dwelling,  and  he  shall  pluck  up  thy  root  to  cast 
it  from  among  the  living.  (Diapsalma.)  The 
just  shall  see,  and  shall  fear,  and  laugh  at  him  ; 
they  shall  say,  "  Lo,  a  man  that  took  not  God  for 
his  help,  but  trusted  unto  the  multitude  of  his 
riches,  and  grew  strong  in  his  vanity."  (104) 
But  as  for  me,  I  am  like  a  green  olive  tree  in 
the  house  of  the  lord ;  and  I  have  trusted  in 
the  mercy  of  the  lord  from  eternity  to  eternity. 
I  will  confess  thee,  for  thou  hast  dealt  with  me, 
and  I  will  hope  in  thy  name,  for  it  is  sweet  in 
the  presence  of  thy  holy  ones.' 

"  This,  then,  0  Master,  is  the  interpretation 
of  the  eleventh  repentance  of  Pistis  Sophia, 
which  thy  light-power  hath  prompted  me  [to 
utter],  and  I  have  uttered  it  according  to  thy 
will." 


102  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

It  came  to  pass,  when   Jesus  had  heard  the 
Jesus  com-   Speecn  which  Salome  had  uttered,  that 

mendeth  * 

Salome.  he  $&{&  .  <<  Well  said,  Salome.  Amen, 
amen,  I  say  unto  you,  I  will  perfect  you 
in  all  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom  of 
light." 

And   Jesus    continued   his  conversation,   and 
Arrogant       SSi[ft  unto  his  disciples  i    "It  came  to 

aideth  his  L 

emanations,  pass  after  this  that  I  approached  nearer 

again  con-  to  chaos  than  formerly,  shining;  ex- 
strain  m  J '  & 

Sophia.  ceedingly,  to  take  away  the  power 
from  that  lion-faced  power.  And  as  I  shone 
exceedingly  it  feared  and  cried  out  to  its  god 
Arrogant,  that  he  should  come  and  aid  it.  And 
immediately,  god  Arrogant  looked  down  from 
the  thirteenth  seon,  he  gazed  downward  into 
chaos,  in  exceeding  wrath,  (105)  desiring  to  aid 
his  lion-faced  power.  And  in  this  hour,  his 
lion-faced  power  and  all  his  emanations  turned 
on  Pistis  Sophia,  desiring  to  take  away  the 
whole  of  the  light  which  was  in  Sophia.  It 
came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  Sophia  was  con- 
strained, that  she  cried  on  high,  crying  to  me 
that  I  should  aid  her.  It  came  to  pass,  there- 
fore, when  she  gazed  on  high,  that  she  saw  Arro- 
gant mightily  enraged,  and  she  feared,  she 
uttered  her  twelfth  repentance  because  of  Arro- 
gant and  his  emanations.  She  cried  unto  me, 
saying  : 


FIRST   BOOK.  103 

"  <  Forget  not  nry  song,  0  light,  for  Arrogant 
and  his  lion-faced  power  have  opened   The  twelfth 

r  r  repentance 

their  mouths  against  me ;  they  have  of  SoPhia- 
acted  with  deceit  towards  me  :  thev  have  sur- 
rounded  me,  seeking  to  take  away  my  power, 
and  they  have  hated  me,  because  I  sang  a  song 
unto  thee ;  instead  of  loving  me,  they  have 
accused  me  ;  as  for  me,  I  sang  a  song.  They 
have  plotted  together  to  take  my  power,  because 
I  sang  to  thee  a  song,  0  light ;  and  they  hated 
me,  because  I  loved  thee.  Let  darkness  fall  on 
Arrogant,  and  may  the  ruler  of  the  outer  dark- 
ness remain  at  his  right  hand.  When  thou 
passest  sentence  upon  him,  take  from  him  his 
power,  and  that  which  he  thought  to  do  unto 
me,  in  taking  away  my  light,  [do  thou  unto 
him,]  and  take  away  his.  May  all  the  light- 
powers  which  are  in  him,  cease;  (106)  and  may 
another  take  his  greatness  among  the  three 
triple  powers  ;  may  all  the  powers  of  his  ema- 
nations be  without  light,  and  may  his  matter 
have  no  light  in  it ;  suffer  them  not  to  enter  into 
their  region.  May  their  light  cease  in  them ; 
may  they  not  be  allowed  to  enter  into  the  thir- 
teenth aeon,  their  region.  Let  the  receiver,  the 
purifier  of  lights,  purify  all  the  light-powers  that 
are  in  Arrogant,  and  take  them  from  them.  May 
the  rulers  of  lower  darkness  have  power  over  his 
emanations.     Let  no  one  receive  them  into  his 


104  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

region ;  let  no  one  give  ear  to  the  power  of  his 
emanations  which  are  in  chaos.  Let  them  take 
away  the  light  which  is  in  his  emanations,  and 
let  them  hide  their  name  in  the  thirteenth  aeon ; 
aye,  let  them  blot  out  his  name  for  ever  in  that 
region. 

"  '  As  for  the  lion-faced  power,  may  the  sin 
of  him  who  sent  it  forth  before  the  light,  fall 
back  upon  him  ;  may  the  iniquity  of  the  matter 
which  it  hath  produced,  be  never  wiped  away  ; 
nay,  may  their  sin  be  ever  before  the  light ; 
may  they  never  see  beyond  [chaos]  ;  may  their 
name  be  removed  from  every  region,  for  they 
have  not  spared  me  ;  (107)  they  have  constrained 
him  from  whom  they  have  taken  his  light  and 
his  power.  Moreover,  they  among  whom  I  have 
been  sent,  desired  to  take  away  my  light ; 
they  loved  to  descend  into  the  darkness ;  let 
them  remain  there,  and  let  them  not  be  brought 
forth  therefrom  from  this  hour.  They  sought  for 
a  habitation  in  the  region  of  righteousness,  and 
they  shall  no  more  be  brought  thither  from  this 
hour.  He  is  robed  in  darkness  as  with  a  vesture, 
he  hath  entered  into  it  as  into  water,  and  he  is 
entered  into  all  his  powers  like  oil.  Let  him 
robe  himself  with  chaos  as  a  garment,  and  gird 
himself  with  darkness  as  with  a  girdle  of  skin 
for  ever.  Let  this  come  upon  them  that  have 
brought  these  things   upon    me  because  of  the 


FIRST   BOOK.  105 

light,  and  on  them  that  have  said,  "  Let  us 
take  from  her  all  her  light."     But  as  for  thee, 

0  light,  be  merciful  unto  me,  because  of  the 
mystery  of  thy  name,  and  save  me  in  the  good- 
ness of  thy  mercy  ;  for  they  have  taken  from 
me  my  light  and  my  power,  and  my  power  hath 
been  shaken  in  me ;  I  could  not  stand  in  their 
midst.  I  have  been  like  matter  that  is  fallen,  I 
have  been  driven  this  way  and  that  like  a 
daemon  of  the  air.     My  power  perished,  because 

1  had  no  mystery  in  that  region  ;  and  my  matter 
hath  been  bound,  because  of  my  light  which 
they  have  taken  away.  They  have  mocked  at 
me,  they  have  winked  upon  me.  Aid  me  ac- 
cording to  thy  mercy.' 

(108)  "  Now,  therefore,  let  him  whose  spirit 
is  active,  come  forward  and  utter  the  interpreta- 
tion of  the  twelfth  repentance  of  Pistis  Sophia." 

Andf^5S3rew  ]came  forward  and  said  :  "  My 
Master  and  saviour,  thy  light- power  hath  pro- 
phesied of  old  through  David,  concerning  this 
repentance  which  Pistis  Sophia  uttered  ;  it  spake 
thereof  in  the  one  hundred  and  eighth  Psalm, 
saying  : 

"  '  0  God,  hold  not  my  mouth  from  my  praise, 
for  the  mouth  of  the  ungodly  and  de- 

Andrew  in- 

ceitful    is    opened    against   me.     They   terpreteth 

.  the  repent- 

have  spoken  against  me  with  a  deceit-    ance  from 

ful   tongue,  and  have   surrounded   me 


106  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

with  words  of  hate.  They  have  fought  against 
me  without  a  cause  ;  instead  of  loving  me  they 
have  accused  me.  But  as  for  me,  I  continued 
in  prayer.  They  have  raised  up  evil  against 
me  in  return  for  good,  and  hate  for  love.  Set 
thou  an  ungodly  one  over  him,  and  may  the 
accuser  stand  at  his  right  hand.  When  sentence 
is  given  upon  him,  let  him  be  condemned,  and 
let  his  prayer  be  regarded  as  sin ;  may  his  days 
be  shortened,  and  may  another  receive  his  over- 
seership ;  may  his  children  be  fatherless,  and  his 
wife  a  widow.  May  the  head  of  his  children  be 
bowed,  may  they  be  transported,  may  they  beg, 
may  they  be  cast  out  of  their  dwelling.  May 
the  money-lender  sweep  away  all  that  he  hath, 
and  may  strangers  carry  away  all  his  labour. 
(109)  Let  there  be  no  man  to  give  him  a  hand, 
and  let  there  be  no  one  to  take  mercy  on  his 
fatherless  children.  Let  his  children  be  blotted 
out,  and  let  them  blot  out  his  name  in  a  single 
generation.  Let  the  sin  of  his  fathers  be  remem- 
bered before  the  lord,  and  let  not  the  sin  of 
his  mother  be  blotted  out.  Let  them  be  ever 
before  the  lord.  Let  his  memory  be  destroyed 
on  the  earth,  in  that  he  hath  not  thought  of 
mercy  ;  for  he  hath  persecuted  the  poor  and 
helpless,  he  hath  persecuted  a  wretched  creature 
to  put  him  to  death.  He  hath  loved  cursing ; 
let  him   fall  into  the  midst  thereof.     He  hath 


FIRST   BOOK.  107 

refused  blessing,  let  it  be  far  from  him.  He 
hath  clothed  himself  with  cursing  as  with  a 
garment,  and  it  hath  entered  into  his  bowels 
like  water,  and  like  oil  into  his  bones.  Let  it 
be  for  him  as  a  vesture  with  which  he  shall  be 
clothed,  and  like  a  girdle  with  which  he  shall 
be  girded  for  all  time.  This  is  the  work  of  them 
that  accuse  before  the  lord,  and  who  speak  in- 
justice against  my  soul. 

"  '  But  as  for  thee,  0  lord  God,  have  pity  on 
me  for  thy  name's  sake.  Save  me,  for  I  am 
poor  and  in  misery.  My  heart  is  troubled 
within  me;  (110)  they  have  carried  me  away 
like  a  shadow  that  declineth,  and  they  have 
frightened  me  away  like  [a  swarm  of]  locusts. 
My  feet  have  become  feeble  with  fasting,  and 
my  flesh  is  dried  from  [want  of]  oil.  I  have 
become  an  object  of  derision  unto  them  ;  they 
have  gazed  upon  me,  and  wagged  their  heads. 
Help,  0  lord  God,  and  save  me  according  to 
thy  mercy.  Let  them  know  that  it  is  thy  hand, 
and  that  thou  hast  created  it,  0  lord.' 

"This  is  the  interpretation  of  the  twelfth  re- 
pentance uttered  by  Pistis  Sophia,  when  she 
was  in  chaos." 

And  Jesus  continued,  and  said  unto  his  dis- 
ciples :  "It  came  to  pass  after  this  that  Pistis 
Sophia  cried  unto  me,  saying :  '  0  light  of 
lights,  I  have  transgressed  in  the  twelve  seons, 


108  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

I  have  descended  from  them.  Therefore,  have  I 
uttered  these  twelve  repentances,  [one]  for  each 
seon.  Now,  therefore,  0  light  of  lights,  forgive 
me  my  transgression,  for  it  is  exceeding  great, 
for  I  have  left  behind  me  the  regions  of  the 
height,  I  have  come  to  dwell  in  the  regions  of 
chaos.'  When  Pistis  Sophia  had  said  this,  she 
continued  to  recite  her  thirteenth  repentance, 
saying  : 

"  '  Hear  me  when  I  sing  a  song  unto  thee,  0 
The  thir-  light  of  lights  ;  hear  me  when  I  make 
pentanceof  repentance  for  the  thirteenth  seon,  the 
Sop  ia.  region  whence  I  came  forth,  in  order 
that  the  thirteenth  repentance  of  the  thir- 
teenth aeon  may  be  accomplished.  (HI)  I 
have  transgressed,  I  have  descended  from  among 
them ;  now,  therefore,  0  light  of  lights,  hear  me 
when  I  sing  a  song  in  the  thirteenth  aeon,  the 
region  from  which  I  came  forth.  Save  me,  0 
light,  by  thy  great  mystery ;  pardon  me  my 
transgression  in  thy  remission  ;  give  unto  me  the 
baptism;  remit  my  sins,  and  purify  me  from  my 
transgression.  And  my  transgression  is  this 
lion-faced  power,  which  hath  never  been  hidden 
from  thee  ;  for  because  of  it  am  I  descended. 
'Tis  I  alone  who  have  transgressed  among  the 
invisibles,  in  whose  regions  I  was ;  I  have  de- 
scended into  chaos,  I  have  transgressed  before 
thee,  that  thy  statute  might  be  accomplished.' 


FIRST   BOOK.  109 

"  This,  then,  Pistis  Sophia  said.  Now,  there- 
fore, let  him  whose  spirit  urgeth  him  to  under- 
stand her  words,  come  forward,  and  expound 
their  meaning." 

Andf  Marthabame  forward,  and  said:  ''Mas- 


ter, my  spirit  urgeth  me  to  expose  the  inter- 
pretation of  the  things  which  Pistis  Sophia  hath 
spoken ;  thy  power  hath  prophesied  of  old  con- 
cerning them,  through  David,  in  the  fiftieth 
Psalm,  saying  : 

(112)    "'Have    mercy    upon    me,    0    God, 
according    to  thy   great   mercy ;    and   Martha  in- 

terpreteth 

according    to     the    multitude     of    thy    the  repent- 
ed ance  from 

mercies    blot    out   my    sin.     bave  me   Psalm  l. 
throughly    from    my    wickedness ;    my    sin    is 
before  thee    every    day,    that    thou   mayest   be 
justified  in  thy  words,  and  mayest  prevail  when 
thou  shalt  judge  me.' 

"  This  is  the  interpretation  of  the  words  which 
Pistis  Sophia  spake." 

Jesus  said  unto  her  :  "  Well  said ;  it  is  well, 
Martha,  thou  blessed  one." 

And  Jesus  continued  in  his  conversation,  and 
said   unto  his  disciples  :   "  It  came  to   jesus 
pass,  when  Pistis  Sophia  had  said  these   forth  a 
words,   that  the  time   was   fulfilled  to   togaidP°Wer 
draw     her     out     of     chaos ;     and     of   Sophia- 
myself,  without   the  first   mystery,   I  produced 
from  myself  a  light-power ;  I  sent  it  forth  into 


110  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

chaos  to  bring  Pistis  Sophia  forth  from  the 
depths  of  chaos,  until  the  command  should  come 
from  the  first  mystery  to  take  her  entirely  out 
of  chaos.  And  my  light-power  led  Pistis  Sophia 
into  the  region  which  is  above  in  the  chaos. 
It  came  to  pass,  when  the  emanations  of 
Arrogant  discovered  that  Pistis  Sophia  had  been 
conducted  into  the  higher  region  of  chaos,  that 
they  also  sped  after  her  into  the  height,  seeking 
to  bring  her  again  into  the  lower  regions  of 
chaos  ;  and  my  bght-power,  which  I  had  sent 
unto  Sophia  in  chaos,  was  shining  exceedingly. 
It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  (113)  when  the 
emanations  of  Arrogant  pursued  Sophia,  when 
she  had  been  conducted  into  the  higher  region 
of  chaos,  that  she  again  sang  a  song,  and  cried 
out  unto  me,  saying  : 

" '  I  will  sing  a  song  unto  thee,   0  light,  for 
Sophia         I  have  desired  to  come  unto  thee  ;  I 

SO^11*  Wil1        Smg       ^^       a       S0I1g>       0      kgH      f0r 

praise.  thou  art   mv  saviour ;   leave    me   not 

in  chaos.  Save  me,  light  of  the  height,  for  unto 
thee  have  I  sung  a  song.  Thou  hast  sent  me 
thy  light  from  thyself,  and  thou  hast  saved  me. 
Thou  hast  brought  me  to  the  higher  regions  of 
chaos.  Let  the  emanations  of  Arrogant,  which 
pursue  me,  therefore,  fall  below  into  the  lower 
regions  of  chaos,  and  let  them  not  come  into  the 
higher  regions  of  chaos   to  see  me.     Let  great 


FIRST   BOOK.  Ill 

darkness  cover  them,  and  let  the  mighty  gloom 
of  darkness  come  upon  them,  and  let  them  not 
see  me  in  the  light  of  thy  power,  which  thou  hast 
sent  unto  me  to  save  me,  that  they  may  no 
longer  have  any  power  over  me.  And  let  the 
counsel  which  they  have  imagined  against  me, 
to  take  away  my  power,  no  longer  be  accom- 
plished for  them ;  and  as  they  have  spoken 
about  me  to  take  away  my  light,  take  from  them 
theirs  in  place  of  mine.  They  have  designed  to 
take  away  my  light,  and  have  not  been  able  to 
take  it ;  for  thy  light-power  is  with  me,  and  they 
have  taken  counsel  together  without  thy  com- 
mandment, 0  light.  For  this  cause  have  they 
not  been  able  to  take  away  my  light,  because 
I  have  trusted  in  the  light.  (114)  I  shall  not 
be  afraid  ;  the  light  is  my  saviour,  and  I  will 
not  fear.' 

"  Now,  therefore,  let  him  whose  power  is 
exalted,  utter  the  interpretation  of  the  words 
which  Pistis  Sophia  spake." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  finished 
speaking  those  words  unto  his  disciples,  that 
Salomejcame  forward,  and  said  :  "  Master,  my 
power  constraineth  me  to  utter  the  interpreta- 
tion of  the  words  which  Pistis  Sophia  spake. 
Thy  power  hath  prophesied  of  old  through 
Solomon,  saying  : 

"  *  I  will   confess    myself  unto   thee,  0    lord, 


112  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

for  thou  art  my  God.     Leave  me  not,  0  lord,  for 
thou  art  my  hope.     Thou  hast  given 

Salome  m-  *  x  ° 

terpreteth     me  justice  for  naught ;  and  I  have  been 

the  song  of  ° 

Sophia         saved  by  thy  hand.      Let   them  that 

from  the 

Odes  of        persecute  me  fall,  and  let  them  not  see 

Solomon. 

me.  Let  a  cloud  of  darkness  cover 
their  eyes,  and  a  tempest  of  wind  blind  them. 
Let  them  not  see  the  day  lest  they  should  seize 
upon  me.  Let  their  counsel  be  impotent,  and 
let  their  own  conspiracy  fall  upon  themselves. 
They  have  designed  a  plot,  and  it  hath  failed 
for  them.  The  mighty  have  vanquished  them, 
and  the  evils  which  they  have  prepared  are 
fallen  upon  them.  My  hope  is  in  the  lord,  and 
I  will  not  fear,  for  thou  art  my  God  and  my 
saviour.' " 

It  came  to  pass  when  Salome  had  finished 
speaking  these  words,  that  Jesus  said  unto  her : 
(115)  "Well  said,  Salome;  it  is  well.  This  is 
the  interpretation  of  the  words  which  Pistis 
Sophia  spake." 

And  Jesus  continued  in  his  conversation,  and 
said  unto  his  disciples  :  "It  came    to 

The  power  x 

sent  by         pass,  when  Pistis   Sophia  had  finished 

Jesus  form- 

ethacrown   saying  these  words  in  the  chaos,  that 

of  light  on  J       ° 

Sophia's       I  caused  the  light-power,  which  I  had 

sent  to  help  her,  to  form  a  crown  of 

light  on  her  head,  in  order  that  henceforth  from 

that  hour  the  emanations  of  Arrogant   should 


FIRST   BOOK.  113 

not  prevail  against  her.  And  when  it  had 
made  a  crown  of  light  on  her  head,  all  the  matters 
which  were  in  her  were  shaken,  and  were  all 
purified  in  her.  They  perished  and  remained 
in  chaos,  while  the  emanations  of  Arrogant 
gazed  upon  them  and  rejoiced.  And  the  glories 
of  pure  light  which  were  in  Sophia,  added 
their  power  of  light  to  my  light-power,  which 
had  become  a  crown  upon  her  head.  It  came 
to  pass,  therefore,  again,  when  [my  light-power] 
surrounded  the  pure  light,  which  was  in 
Sophia,  and  her  pure  light  did  not  depart 
from  the  crown  of  power,  the  brilliant  flame,  so 
that  the  emanations  of  Arrogant  should  rob  her 
of  it — when  this  was  done  unto  her,  the  power 
of  unmixed  light  which  was  in  Sophia  began  to 
sing  a  song.  And  she  sang  a  song  unto  my 
light-power  which  was  a  crown  unto  her  head, 
and  she  sang  a  song,  saying  : 

"  '  0  light,  be  thou  a  crown  unto  my  head;  nor 
shall  I  ever  cause  it  to  depart,  so  that  sophia 
the  emanations  of  Arrogant  may  as-  other6  song  " 
sail  me  ;  and  though  all  the  matters  be  of  Praise- 
shaken,  yet  shall  I  not  be  shaken.  (116) 
And  though  all  my  matters  be  lost,  and 
remain  in  chaos,  and  the  emanations  of  Ar- 
rogant gaze  upon  them,  yet  shall  I  not  perish, 
for  the  light  is   with  me,  and   I    am  with    the 

light' 

8 


114  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

"  These  words,  then,  were  spoken  by  Pistis 
Sophia.  Now,  therefore,  let  him  who  knoweth 
the  meaning  of  these  words  come  forward,  and 
utter  their  interpretation." 

Then  Maryjbhe  mother  of  Jesus,  came  forward, 

«     Mary,  his      an0^  sa^  :   "  My  son>  according  to  the 

SketrT'and   wor^j  my  God  and  saviour,  according 

receiyeth       to  ^e  height,  bid  me  utter  the  inter- 

permission  o      ' 

to  speak.  pretation  of  the  words  which  Pistis 
Sophia  spake." 

And  Jesus  answered,  and  said  unto  her : 
"  Thou  also,  0  Mary,  thou  who  didst  receive 
the  form  which  is  in  Barbelo,  according  to 
matter,  and  didst  receive  the  similitude  of  the 
regions  of  light,  according  to  the  light,  thou  and 
the  other  Mary,  the  blessed  one ;  the  darkness 
hath  existed  because  of  thee,  and  moreover  from 
thee  did  come  forth  the  material  body  in  which  I 
dwell,  and  which  I  have  purified — now,  there- 
fore, I  bid  thee  utter  the  interpretation  of  the 
words  spoken  by  Pistis  Sophia." 

And  Mary,  the  mother  of  Jesus,  answered, 
and  said  :  "  My  Master,  thy  light-power  hath 
prophesied  of  old  concerning  these  words, 
through  Solomon,  in  his  nineteenth  Ode,  say- 
ing : 

"  '  The  lord  is  above  my  head  as  it  were  a 
garland,  and  I  shall  never  be  without  it.  The 
garland    of    truth    hath   been    woven    for    me ; 


FIRST   BOOK.  115 

(117)    and    he    hath    caused     its    branches    to 
flourish  in  me,  for  it  is  not  like  unto   Mary>  the 
a  garland  that  withereth  and  flourish-   ZT^elett' 
eth  not.       Thy  branches  are  full  [of  |h0eph7anfgro^ 
sap]  ;  they  are  perfect,  filled  with  thy   Qde^fsoio 
salvation.'"  mon- 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  heard  these 
words   which    Mary,   his   mother,    had   Jesuf?  c°m- 

J  mendeth 

spoken,  that  he  said  unto  her:  "Well  his mother. 
said ;  it  is  well.  Amen,  amen,  I  say  unto  thee, 
they  shall  proclaim  thee  blessed  from  one  end  of 
the  earth  to  the  other,  for  the  covenant  of  the 
first  mystery  hath  dwelt  in  thee,  and  by  this 
covenant  shall  be  saved  all  worlds  and  all 
heights,  and  this  covenant  is  the  beginning  and 
the  end." 

And  Jesus  continued  in  his  conversation,  and 
said  unto  his  disciples ;  "It  came  to  The statute 
pass,  when  Pistis  Sophia  had  uttered  mystetvS* 
her  thirteenth  repentance,  that  in  that  [a{^d  for 
hour  was  fulfilled  the  statute  of  all  the   +SoPhia  ?n- 

tirely  out 

tribulations  with  which  Pistis  Sophia  ofchaos- 
had  been  disgracefully  inflicted,  for  the  consum- 
mation of  the  first  mystery,  which  is  from  the 
beginning ;  and  the  time  had  come  to  rescue  her 
from  chaos,  and  lead  her  out  of  all  the  darkness, 
for  her  repentance  had  been  accepted  by  the 
first  mystery  ;  and  moreover  that  mystery  sent 
me  a  mighty  light-power  from  the  height,  that 


116  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

I  might  rescue  Pistis  Sophia  and  lead  her  out 
The  first       0f  chaos.      And  I  gazed  towards  the 

mystery  ° 

and  Jesus  heights  of  the  seons,  I  saw  that  light- 
sent  forth  &  '  & 

two  streams  power  which  the  first  mystery  had  sent 
powers  to  mej  that  I  might  rescue  Pistis  Sophia 
Sophia.  from  chaos.  It  came  to  pass,  therefore, 
when  I  had  seen  it,  issuing  forth  from  the  seons 
and  coming  towards  me,  I  being  in  chaos, 
that  another  power  of  light-powers  also  went 
forth  from  me,  to  aid  Pistis  Sophia.  And  the 
light-power  which  had  issued  from  the  heights, 
sent  by  the  first  mystery,  descended  upon  the 
light-power  which  had  issued  from  me,  and  they 
met  together,  and  became  a  mighty  stream  of 
light." 

And  when  Jesus  had  spoken  these  things 
unto  his  disciples,  he  said  unto  them  :  "Under- 
stand ye  how  I  speak  unto  you  ? " 

And  Mary  started  forward  again,  and  said : 
Mary  in-  "Master,  I  understand  that  of  which 
thePmys-  thou  speakest.  Concerning  the  inter- 
tery*  pretation  of  this  word,  thy  light-power 

hath  prophesied  of  old  through  David,  in  the 
forty-fourth  Psalm,  saying  :  '  Mercy  and  truth 
are  met  together,  righteousness  and  peace  have 
kissed  each  other.  Truth  hath  flourished  on  the 
earth,  and  righteousness  hath  looked  down  from 
heaven.'     Mercy,  therefore,  is  this   light-power 

which   was  sent  by  the  first  mystery  ;  for  the 

■ 


FIRST   BOOK.  117 

first  mystery  had  heard  Pistis  Sophia,  (119)  he 
had  had  mercy  on  her  in  all  her  tribulations. 
Truth,  also,  is  that  power  which  issued  from 
thee,  for  that  thou  hast  fulfilled  the  truth  in 
order  to  save  me  from  chaos.  Righteousness, 
again,  is  that  power  which  was  sent  by  the  first 
mystery,  which  will  guide  Pistis  Sophia,  Peace, 
also,  is  that  power  which  issued  from  thee  to 
enter  into  the  emanations  of  Arrogant  to  take 
from  them  the  light,  which  they  had  taken  from 
Pistis  Sophia ;  that  is  to  say,  in  order  that  thou 
mightest  gather  them  together  into  Sophia,  and 
make  them  at  peace  with  her  power.  Truth, 
also,  is  the  power  which  issued  from  thee,  when 
thou  wast  in  the  lower  regions  of  chaos.  For 
this  cause  thy  power  hath  said  through  David, 
*  Truth  hath  flourished  on  the  earth,'  for  thou 
wert  in  tbe  lower  regions  of  chaos.  (  Righteous- 
ness also  hath  looked  down  from  heaven ' ;  this 
is  the  power  which  issued  from  the  height,  [sent] 
by  the  first  mystery,  [the  power]  which  entered 
into  Sophia." 

And  when  Jesus  had  heard  these  words,  he 
said  :  "  Well  said,  Mary,  thou  blessed  one,  who 
shalt  inhabit  every  kingdom  of  light." 

Then  also  Mary,  the  mother  of  Jesus,  came 
forward,  and  said  :  "  My  Master  and  my  God, 
bid  me  also  utter  this  word  of  interpretation." 

Jesus    said   unto    her :   "  He    whose    spirit   is 


118  P1STIS   SOPHIA. 

intelligent,  I  will  in  no  way  prevent,  but  I  the 
more  and  more  urge  him  to  utter  the  meaning 
(120)   which   prompteth  him.     Now,   therefore, 

0  Mary,  my  mother  according  to  matter,  thou  in 
whom  I  dwelt,  I  bid  thee  also  utter  the  meaning 
of  the  word." 

And  Mary  answered  and  said  :  "  My  Master, 
Mary,  the  concerning  the  word  which  thy  power 
further'  prophesied  through  David,  to  wit, 
Shthe6*"  *  Mercy  and  truth  are  met  together, 
scripture,  righteousness  and  peace  have  kissed 
each  other ;  truth  hath  flourished  on  the  earth, 
and  righteousness  hath  looked  down  from  heaven,' 
— thy  power  prophesied  this  word  of  old  con- 
cerning thee. 

"  When  thou  wert  a  child,  before  the  spirit 
The  story  na(^  descended  upon  thee,  when  thou 
phantom  wert  in  the  vineyard  with  Joseph,  the 
spmt.  spirit  came  down  from  the  height,  and 

came  unto  me  in  the  house,  like  unto  thee,  and 

1  knew  him  not,  but  thought  that  he  was  thou. 
And  he  said  unto  me,  '  Where  is  Jesus,  my 
brother,  that  I  may  go  to  meet  him  ? '  And 
when  he  had  said  this  unto  me,  I  was  in  doubt, 
and  thought  it  was  a  phantom  tempting  me.  I 
seized  him  and  bound  him  to  the  foot  of  the  bed 
which  was  in  my  house,  until  I  had  gone  to  find 
you  in  the  field,  thee  and  Joseph  ;  and  I  found 
you  in  the  vineyard  ;  Joseph  was  putting  up  the 


FIRST   BOOK.  119 

vine  poles.  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when 
thou  didst  hear  me  saying  this  thing  unto 
Joseph,  that  thou  didst  understand,  and  thou 
wert  joyful,  and  saidest,  '  Where  is  he,  that  I 
may  see  him  ?  Nay  [rather],  I  am  expecting 
him  in  this  place.'  And  it  came  to  pass,  when 
Joseph  heard  thee  say  these  words,  that  he  was 
disturbed.  (121)  We  went  together,  we  entered 
into  the  house,  we  found  the  spirit  bound  to  the 
bed,  and  we  gazed  upon  thee  and  him,  and 
found  that  thou  wert  like  unto  him.  And  he 
that  was  bound  to  the  bed,  was  unloosed,  he 
embraced  thee  and  kissed  thee,  and  thou  also 
didst  kiss  him ;  ye  became  one  and  the  same 
being. 

"  This,  then,  is  the  word  and  its  interpretation. 
Mercy  is  the  spirit  which  came  from  the  height, 
[sent]  by  the  first  mystery,  to  take  pity  on  the 
human  race  ;  he  sent  his  spirit  to  pardon  the 
sins  of  the  whole  world,  that  they  might  receive 
the  mystery,  that  they  might  inherit  the  king- 
dom of  light.  Truth,  also,  is  the  power  which 
dwelt  in  thee,  issued  from  Barbelo.  It  became 
thy  material  body,  and  the  herald  below   Ofthespir- 

"•  jtefci*a**  •  , ...,.,>>    ltual  and  \ 

the  region  of  truth.     Righteousness  is   material 

.   .  ,  &  bodies  of 

thy  spirit  which  hath  brought  all  the   Jesus- 
mysteries   from   on  high,  to   give   them   to   the 
race  of  men.     Peace,  also,  is  the  power  which 
dwelt  in  thy  material  body,  according  to  the  world, 


120  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

[the  body]  which  hath  baptised  the  human  race, 
to  make  it  a  stranger  to  sin,  and  at  peace  with 
thy  spirit,  that  they  may  be  at  peace  with  the 
emanations  of  light,  that  is  to  say,  that  mercy 
and  truth  may  kiss  each  other.  As  to  that 
which  hath  been  said,  '  Truth  hath  flourished 
on  the  earth,'  truth  is  thy  material  body  (122) 
which  germinated  in  me  in  the  earth  among 
men,  and  is  the  herald  below  the  place  of 
truth.  Again,  as  to  that  which  hath  been  said, 
'  Kighteousness  hath  flourished  out  of  heaven,' 
righteousness  is  the  power  which  hath  looked 
down  from  heaven,  [the  power]  which  will  give 
the  mysteries  of  light  to  the  human  race,  and 
men  shall  become  righteous,  they  shall  be  good, 
they  shall  inhabit  the  kingdom  of  life." 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  Jesus  had 
heard  these  words  which  Mary,  his  mother,  had 
spoken,  that  he  said  :  "  Well  said ;  it  is  well, 
Mary." 

I -my  n  i  ..in  i 

And  the  other  Mary  came  forward,  and  said  : 
"  Master,  suffer  me,  and  be  not  wroth  with  me, 
nay,  from  the  moment  when  thy  mother  uttered 
the  interpretation  of  these  words,  my  power 
hath  urged  me  to  come  forward,  and  also  ex- 
pound their  interpretation." 

And  Mary  said  :  "  Master,  '  Mercy  and  truth 
are  met  together.'  Mercy,  then,  is  the  spirit 
which    descended    upon    thee,  when  thou   didst 


FIEST   BOOK.  121 

receive  the   baptism    of  John.       Mercy    is   the 
spirit    of    divinity    which    descended   ^he  °^e_r 
upon    thee,    which    had    pity    on    the   fclMLSfe^e 

human  race  ;  it  descended,  it  met  with    same  scrip- 
ture from 

the  power  of  Sabaoth  which  is  in  thee,    the  baP-' 

r  tism  of 

which  is  the  herald  below  the  regions  Jesus, 
of  truth.  It  hath  been  said  again,  '  Righteousness 
and  peace  have  kissed  each  other.'  Righteous- 
ness, then,  is  the  spirit  of  light  which  came  upon 
thee,  which  hath  brought  the  mysteries  of  the 
height,  (123)  to  give  them  unto  the  human 
race.  Peace,  also,  is  the  power  of  Sabaoth  the 
good,  who  is  in  thee,  who  hath  baptised  and 
hath  pardoned  the  human  race ;  it  [the  power] 
hath  made  it  at  peace  with  the  children  of 
light.  And  again,  as  thy  power  hath  said, 
through  David,  '  Truth  hath  flourished  on 
the  earth,'  this  is  the  power  of  Sabaoth  the 
good. 

"  He  hath  said,  '  Truth  hath  flourished  on  the 
earth,'  [for]  it  hath  flourished  in  Mary,  thy 
mother,  who  dwelleth  on  earth.  Righteousness, 
also,  which  'hath  looked  down  from  heaven,'  is 
the  spirit  which  is  in  the  height,  which  hath 
brought  all  the  mysteries  of  the  height,  and 
hath  given  them  to  the  human  race ;  men 
have  become  righteous,  they  have  become 
good,  they  have  inherited  the  kingdom  of 
light." 


122  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  heard 
the  discourse  which  Mary  uttered,  that  he  said  : 
"  Well  said,  Mary,  inheritor  of  light." 

And  again  [Maryjthe  mother  of  Jesus,  came 
forward,  she  bowed  herself  at  his  feet, 

Mary,  the 

mother,         and  kissed  them,  saying:  "My  Master, 

again  ,  .  .  . 

further  in-     my  son,  and  my  saviour,  be  not  wroth 

terpreteth  .  ,  ,  .  T 

the  same  against  me  but  pardon  me,  that  1  may 

from  the'  tell  thee  once  more  the  interpretation 

herself g  of  these  words.     '  Mercy  and  truth  are 

Elizabeth,  met  together.'  'tis  I,  Mary,  thy  mother, 

John  the       with  Elizabeth,  mother  of  John,  when 
Baptist.        j  met  her^     ^124^  Mercy    thenj  is  the 

power  of  Sabaoth  which  is  in  me,  [the  power] 
which  went  forth  from  my  mouth,  that  is  to 
say,  thyself.  Thou  hast  had  mercy  on  the 
whole  human  race.  Truth,  also,  is  the  power 
which  was  in  Elizabeth,  that  is  to  say,  John, 
who  came,  and  was  the  herald  before  the  truth, 
that  is  to  say,  who  was  the  herald  before  thee. 
And  again,  '  Mercy  and  truth  are  met  together,' 
'tis  thou,  my  saviour,  when  thou  didst  meet 
John,  on  the  day  when  thou  wast  to  receive  the 
baptism.  Again  'tis  thou  and  John  who  are 
righteousness  and  peace  that  kissed  each  other. 
"'  Truth  hath  nourished  on  the  earth,  and 
righteousness  hath  looked  down  from 

Of  the  & 

incarnation    heaven,'  this    is  the   time   when   thou 

of  Jesus.  .    . 

didst  minister  to  thyself.     Thou  didst 


FIRST   BOOK.  123 

take  the  form  of  Gabriel,  thou  didst  look  down 
upon  me  from  heaven,  thou  didst  speak  unto 
me,  and  when  thou  hadst  spoken  unto  me,  thou 
didst  germinate  in  me.  This  is  the  truth,  that 
is  to  say,  the  power  of  Sabaoth  the  good,  which 
is  in  thy  material  body,  it  is  this  truth  which 
hath  flourished  on  the  earth." 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  Jesus  had 
heard  these  words  which  Mary,  his  mother, 
spake,  that  he  said :  "  Well  said ;  it  is  well. 
This  is  the  interpretation  of  all  the  words  con- 
cerning which  my  light-power  prophesied  of 
old,  through  David,  the  prophet." 


THE  NOTE  OF  A  SCRIBE. 

These  are  the  names  which  I  will  give  from 
the  infinite  downward.       Write  them 

A  note  by 

with  a  sign,  that  the  sons  of  God  may   a  later 

hand. 
manifest  themselves  from  this  region 

downward.     This  is  the  name  of  the  immortal 


\jOl$* 


AAA  nf2H.      And  this  is  the  name  of  the  voice, 

by  reason  of  which  the  perfect  man  is  moved,        AcA 

III.      And  here  are  the  interpretations  of  the  I 

names  of  these  mysteries.     The  first  is  AAA ;  (    ^ 

its  interpretation  is  <£<£><!>.     The  second  is  MMM, 

or  null ;  its  interpretation  is  AAA.     The  third 

is  W¥  ;  its  interpretation  is  OQO.     The  fourth 


=  vT-i  >^;&.<3i 


124  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

is  <£<!><£ ;  its  interpretation  is  NNN.  The  fifth 
is  AAA ;  its  interpretation  is  AAA.  He  who 
is  on  the  throne  is  AAA.  This  is  the  interpre- 
tation of  the  second  AAAA  AAAA  AAAA. 
This  is  the  interpretation  of  the  whole  name. 

Y 


THE  SECOND  BOOK  OF  PISTIS  SOPHIA. 


(126)  And  [John  j  also  came  forward  and  said: 
"  Master,  bid  me  as  well  expound  the  interpre- 
tation of  the  words  which  thy  light-power  pro- 
phesied of  old  through  David." 

And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  John  : 
"  To  thee  also,  John,  I  give  commandment  to 
expound  the  interpretation  of  the  words  of  which 
my  light-power  prophesied  by  David,  saying, 
'  Mercy  and  truth  have  met  together,  righteous- 
ness and  peace  have  kissed  each  other.  Truth 
hath  flourished  on  the  earth,  and  righteousness 
hath  looked  down  from  heaven.' 5 

John  answered  and  said :  "  This  is  the 
word  which   thou    didst  say    unto   us   John 

further 

once  on  a  time,  '  I  came  forth  from  the   expiaineth 

•  n  a  *^e  same 

height,  1  entered  into  feabaoth  the  scripture. 
good ;  I  embraced  the  light-power  which  was  in 
him.'  Now,  therefore,  mercy  is  thyself,  who 
wast  sent  from  the  regions  of  the  height  by  thy 
father,  the  first  mystery,  looking  within,  which 
sent  thee  to  have  mercy  on  the  whole  world. 

(127)  Truth  also  is  that  power  of  Sabaoth  the 
good,  which  was  implanted  in  thee,  which  thou 


126  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

hast  sent  forth  to  the  left,  thou  the  first  mystery 
looking  within.  And  the  little  Sabaoth  the 
Of  Sabaoth  g°°d,  n^th  received  it ;  he  sent  it  forth 
SXjSSti  mto  matter  and  into  Barbelo,  and 
and  the        became  the   herald   of  the  regions  of 

light-ves-  ° 

ture.  truth,   in    all   the  regions  of  those  of 

the  left.  The  matter  of  Barbelo,  then,  is  that 
which  is  in  thy  body  to-day. 

"  '  Righteousness  and  peace  have  kissed  each 
other.'  Righteousness  is  thyself,  who  didst  bring 
all  the  mysteries,  by  order  of  thy  father,  the 
first  mystery  looking  within ;  and  thou  didst 
baptise  this  power  of  Sabaoth  the  good,  and  thou 
didst  go  into  the  region  of  all  the  rulers  ;  thou 
didst  give  them  the  mysteries  of  the  height ; 
they  have  become  righteous,  they  have  become 
good. 

"  Peace  is  also  the  power  of  Sabaoth,  which 
indeed  is  thy  soul,  which  entered  into  the 
matter  of  Barbelo,  and  all  the  rulers  of  the  six 
aeons,  or  Iabraoth,  made  peace  with  the  mystery 
of  the  light. 

"  And  '  truth  which  hath  flourished  on  the 
earth '  is  that  power  of  Sabaoth  the  good,  which 
came  forth  from  the  region  of  the  right,  which 
is  without  the  treasure  of  light,  and  came  into 
the  region  of  those  of  the  left,  it  entered  into 
the  matter  of  Barbelo,  and  proclaimed  unto  them 
the  mysteries  of  the  region  of  truth. 


SECOND   BOOK.  127 

(128)  "  Righteousness  also  which  '  looked  down 
from  heaven/  is  thyself  the  first  mystery  looking 
without,  come  forth  from  the  spaces  of  the 
height,  with  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom  of 
light ;  and  thou  didst  descend  upon  this  light- 
vesture,  which  thou  didst  receive  from  the  hands 
of  Barbelo,  which  [vesture]  is  Jesus,  our  saviour, 
descending  upon  him  like  a  dove." 

The  first  mystery,  then,  continued  :  "  It  came 
to  pass,  therefore,  that  this  power  Gabriel  and 
which  had  come  forth  from  the  height,  ^g^. 
that  is  to  say,  myself,  whom  my  father  ^ipp^Ss 
sent  to  rescue  Pistis  Sophia  from  chaos,  SoPhia- 
[that]  I,  therefore,  [as  Jesus,  the  saviour]  with 
this  other  power  which  had  issued  from  me,  and 
the  soul  which  I  had  taken  from  the  hands  of 
Sabaoth  the  good,  we  went  all  together,  forming 
but  a  single  stream  of  light,  which  shone  ex- 
ceedingly. I  summoned  Gabriel  from  above, 
from  the  aeons,  and  also  Michael,  by  order  of 
my  father,  the  first  mystery  looking  within. 
I  gave  unto  them  the  light-stream,  and  made 
them  descend  into  chaos,  (129)  to  rescue  Pistis 
Sophia,  and  seize  upon  the  light-powers  which 
the  emanations  of  Arrogant  had  taken  from 
her,  in  order  to  take  them  from  them  and  give 
them  unto  Pistis  Sophia. 

"  And  the  moment  that  the  light-stream  was 
led   into  chaos,   it  lit  up  mightily  the  whole  of 


128  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

chaos,  and  extended  itself  in  all  their  regions. 
And  the  emanations  of  Arrogant,  when  they  had 
seen  the  great  light  of  this  stream,  were  terror- 
stricken  one  after  the  other ;  and  the  light- 
stream  drew  forth  from  them  all  the  light-powers 
which  they  had  taken  from  Pistis  Sophia.  The 
emanations  of  Arrogant  durst  not  possess  them- 
selves of  this  light-stream  in  dark  chaos  ;  nor 
could  they  possess  themselves  of  it  [even]  with 
the  art  of  Arrogant,  who  rules  over  the  emana- 
tions. 

"  And  Gabriel  and  Michael  led  the  light- 
The  light-  stream  over  the  material  body  of  Pistis 
stored 'the  Sophia  >  tnev  infused  into  it  all  the 
howersinto  light_Powers  which  had  been  taken 
Sophia.  from  her.  And  her  material  body  be- 
came shining  throughout ;  and  also  all  the 
powers  which  were  in  her,  and  from  which  the 
light  had  been  taken,  became  radiant ;  they 
ceased  to  lack  their  light,  for  the  light  had 
been  taken  back  from  those  who  had  taken 
it  away,  and  had  been  given  back  again 
by  my  interposition.  And  Michael  and  Gabriel 
— they  were  in  attendance  upon  me,  and  had 
led  the  light-stream  into  chaos,  to  give  them 
the  mysteries  of  light ;  (130)  for  it  was  to  them 
that  the  light-stream  had  been  entrusted,  [the 
same]  which  I  gave  unto  them  and  brought  into 
chaos — and   Michael  and   Gabriel  took  no  light 


SECOND    BOOK.  129 

for  themselves  from  the  light-powers  of  Sophia 
which  they  took  from  the  hands  of  the  emana- 
tions of  Arrogant. 

"  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  the  light- 
stream  had  infused  into  Pistis  Sophia  all  her 
light-powers,  which  it  had  taken  from  the  hands 
of  the  emanations  of  Arrogant,  that  she  became 
entirely  radiant ;  and  the  other  light-powers 
which  were  in  Pistis  Sophia,  those  which  the 
emanations  of  Arrogant  had  not  taken  away, 
were  also  joyful,  and  full  of  light.  And  the 
light-powers  which  had  been  infused  into  Pistis 
Sophia  vivified  her  material  body,  in  which  there 
had  been  no  light ;  which  was  to  perish,  and 
had  perished.  They  vivified  all  her  powers 
which  were  not  to  perish.  These  powers  also 
became  light-powers ;  they  became  as  they  were 
originally.  They  were  also  exalted  in  their 
perceptions  of  the  light,  and  all  the  light-powers 
of  Sophia  knew  one  another  by  the  intervention 
of  the  light-stream ;  they  were  saved  by  the 
light  of  that  stream.  And  when  my  The  u  ht 
light-stream  had  taken  away  the  light-  havfng  ac- 
powers  from  the  hands  of  the  emana-    ?omPllshed 

Jr  its  purpose, 

tions  of  Arrogant,  [the  powers]  which   ^eparteth 

they    had    taken    away    from    Pistis   SoPhia. 

Sophia,  (131)  it  infused  them  into  Pistis  Sophia, 

and  turned  itself  about  and  ascended  in  chaos." 

This,  then,  is  what  the  first  mystery  spake 

9 


130  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

unto  his  disciples,  concerning  what  had  happen- 
ed to  Pistis  Sophia  in  chaos.  He  continued, 
and  said  :  "  Understand  ye  how  I  speak  unto 
you  ? " 

And  Peter  came  forward,  and  said  :  "  Master, 
concerning  the  interpretation  of  the  words  which 
thou  hast  spoken,  thy  light-power  hath  pro- 
phesied concerning  them  of  old,  through  Solo- 
mon, in  his  Odes,  [saying]  : 

"  '  A  flood  hath  taken  place ;  it  hath  become  a 
Peter  inter-  grea^  stream,  strong  and  wide  ;  it  hath 
nlrreatwehe  carried  all  away.  It  hath  turned  to- 
Odesof6  wai>ds  the  temple,  nor  could  they  hold 
Solomon.  ft  jn  with  enclosures  and  structures. 
The  skill  of  them  that  check  the  waters  could 
not  stop  it ;  it  spread  over  the  whole  land,  and 
seized  upon  all  of  them.  They  that  were  in  the 
sand  of  the  desert  have  drunk ;  their  thirst 
departed  and  was  quenched,  when  they  had 
received  the  draught  from  on  high.  Blessed  are 
the  ministers  of  that  draught,  to  whom  hath 
been  entrusted  the  water  of  the  lord.  Thev 
have  refreshed  the  parched  lips.  They  who 
were  perishing,  have  felt  their  heart  rejoice ; 
they  who  were  breathing  their  last,  have  pluck- 
ed up  courage  so  as  not  to  die.  They  have 
raised  up  the  limbs  which  were  fallen  ;  they 
have  given  power  to  their  countenance,  and 
have  given  light  to  their  eyes,  for  all  of  them 


SECOND   BOOK.  131 

know  each    other  in  the  lord,   and   have  been 
saved  by  the  water  of  life  everlasting/ 

"  Hearken,  therefore,  my  Master,  that  I  may 
utter  the  word  in  freedom,  as  thy  power  pro- 
phesied, through  Solomon.  (132)  'A  flood  hath 
come  forth ;  it  hath  become  a  great  stream, 
strong  and  wide ' ;  this  is  the  light-stream 
which  spread  itself  in  chaos,  in  all  the  region  of 
the  emanations  of  Arrogant. 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  power  hath  again 
uttered  through  Solomon,  '  It  hath  carried  all 
away ;  it  poured  them  over  the  temple ' ;  that 
is  to  say,  it  carried  away  all  the  light-powers 
from  the  emanations  of  Arrogant,  which  they 
had  taken  from  Pistis  Sophia,  and  it  poured 
them  again  into  Pistis  Sophia. 

"  And  the  word  thy  power  again  hath  said, 
1  The  enclosures  and  structures  have  not  been 
able  to  hold  it  in ' ;  that  is  to  say,  the  emana- 
tions of  Arrogant  have  not  been  able  to  hold  the 
light-stream  within  the  walls  of  the  darkness  of 
chaos. 

"  And  the  word  which  it  also  uttered,  l  It 
spread  over  the  whole  land,  and  filled  every- 
thing ' ;  that  is  to  say,  when  Gabriel  and 
Michael  led  it  over  the  body  of  Pistis  Sophia,  it 
poured  into  Sophia  all  the  light-powers  which 
the  emanations  of  Arrogant  had  taken  from  her, 
and  her  material  body  became  radiant. 


132  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

"And  the  word  which  it  also  spake,  'They 
who  were  in  the  parched  land  have  drunk ' ; 
that  is  to  say,  all  that  were  in  Pistis  Sophia 
have  been  illuminated,  [the  powers]  from  which 
the  light  had  previously  been  taken  away. 

4 'And  the  word  which  it  uttered,  'Their 
thirst  hath  departed  and  is  quenched';  that  is  to 
say,  (133)  her  powers  ceased  to  lack  their  light, 
for  they  had  had  restored  to  them  the  light 
which  had  been  taken  away. 

"  And,  again,  as  to  the  utterance  of  thy 
power,  '  They  have  given  them  a  draught  from 
on  high ' ;  that  is,  the  light  hath  been  given 
unto  them  by  the  light-stream  '  which  came 
forth  from  myself,  [who  am]  the  first  mys- 
tery.' 

"  And  as  to  the  saying  of  thy  power,  '  Blessed 
are  the  ministers  of  that  draught,'  that  is  the 
word  which  thou  hast  spoken,  '  Gabriel  and 
Michael,  they  who  were  in  attendance,  led  the 
stream  into  chaos  and  also  brought  it  forth 
again.'  The  mysteries  of  light  which  had  been 
entrusted  to  the  light- stream  will  be  given  unto 
them. 

"  And  as  to  the  further  utterance  of  thy 
power,  '  They  have  refreshed  the  parched  lips ' ; 
that  is,  Gabriel  and  Michael  have  taken  nothing 
for  themselves  from  the  light-powers  of  Pistis 
Sophia,   [the  powers]  which  they  had   wrested 


SECOND   BOOK.  133 

from  the  emanations  of  Arrogant,  but  infused 
them  into  Pistis  Sophia. 

"And  again  the  word  which  it  spake,  'They 
who  were  fainting,  have  felt  their  heart  rejoice ' ; 
that  is,  all  the  other  powers  of  Pistis  Sophia, 
which  had  not  been  taken  away  by  the  emana- 
tions of  Arrogant,  rejoiced  greatly  ;  they  were 
filled  with  light  by  their  light-fellows,  for  they 
were  infused  into  them. 

"And  the  word  which  thy  power  again  uttered, 
(134)  'They  have  revived  the  souls  which  were 
breathing  their  last,  that  they  might  not  die ' ; 
that  is,  when  they  had  poured  their  light 
into  Pistis  Sophia,  they  vivified  her  material 
body  from  which  the  light  had  previously 
been  taken,  but  which  was  not  destined  to 
perish. 

"  And  again  the  word  which  thy  power  spake, 
'  They  have  raised  up  firmly  the  limbs  which 
were  fallen,  so  that  they  might  not  perish '  ;  that 
is,  when  they  had  poured  into  her  her  light- 
powers,  they  confirmed  all  the  powers  which 
[otherwise]  would  have  perished. 

"  And  again  as  to  the  saying  of  thy  light- 
power,  '  They  have  had  their  light  renewed,  and 
they  have  become  what  they  were  of  old,' 
and  also  the  word  which  it  spake,  '  They  have 
given  light  to  their  eyes  ' ;  that  is,  they  have 
gained  perception  in  the  light,  and  have  known 


134  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

the  light-stream,  for  it  was  [previously]  hidden 
in  the  height. 

"  And  again  the  word  which  it  spake,  '  And 
all  knew  each  other  in  the  lord '  ;  that  is,  all 
the  powers  of  Pistis  Sophia  knew  one  another 
through  the  light-stream. 

"  And  again  the  word  which  it  uttered,  '  They 
have  been  saved  by  the  water  of  life  everlasting  ; 
it  hath  drawn  them  over  the  temple ' ;  that  is, 
when  the  light-stream  had  taken  all  the  light- 
powers  of  Pistis  Sophia,  (135)  and  had  wrested 
them  from  the  emanations  of  Arrogant,  it  poured 
them  into  Pistis  Sophia,  and  turned  itself  about, 
and  departed  from  the  chaos ;  it  came  upon 
thee,  for  thou  art  the  temple. 

"  This  is  the  interpretation  of  all  the  words 
which  thy  light-power  spake  in  the  Ode  of 
Solomon." 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  the  first 
mystery  had  heard  all  these  words  which  Peter 
had  spoken,  that  he  said  unto  him :  "  Well 
said,  0  blessed  Peter ;  this  is  the  interpretation 
of  the  words  which  have  been  spoken." 

The  first  mystery  continued,  and  said :  "It 
The  eman-  came  to  pass,  therefore,  as  Pistis  Sophia 
Arrogant  ^ad  not  yet  [entirely]  ascended  out  of 
tohSm^or  cnaos>  because  my  father,  the  first 
help.  mystery,  looking  within,  had  not  yet 

given  her  commandment,  that  then,   when  the 


SECOND   BOOK.  135 

emanations  of  Arrogant  discovered  that  my 
light-stream  had  taken  unto  itself  the  light- 
powers,  which  they  had  taken  from  Pistis  Sophia, 
and  had  poured  them  again  into  Pistis  Sophia, 
when  they  saw  again  Pistis  Sophia  radiant  as 
she  had  been  in  former  times,  they  were  enraged 
against  Pistis  Sophia,  they  cried  out,  moreover, 
to  Arrogant  to  make  him  come  and  help  them, 
that  they  might  again  take  away  all  the  powers 
which  were  in  Pistis  Sophia. 

"  And  Arrogant  sent  from  on  high,  from  the 
thirteenth  aeon,  he  sent  another  great   He  se^th 
light-power.     It  descended  into  chaos   0°hermore 
like  a  winged  arrow,  to  help  his  em  an-    peruke 
ations,    (136)    that    they    might    once   ^ead 
more   take    away  the    light-powers   of  arrow- 
Pistis  Sophia.     And  when  this  power  had   de- 
scended,   the    emanations    of    Arrogant,    which 
were  in  chaos  and  had  caused  Pistis  Sophia  all 
her  woe,  were  mightily  encouraged.     They  perse- 
cuted Pistis  Sophia  afresh  with  great  fears  and 
mighty  pains ;    and  some  of  the  emanations  of 
Arrogant  constrained  her.    One  of  them   The  crea. 
changed  itself  into  the  form  of  a  monster   ^e°nftthe 
serpent ;  another  changed  itself  also  in-   anfd/'  on 
to  the  form  of  a  seven-headed  basilisk  ;   Powers- 
another  changed  itself  into  the  form  of  a  dragon. 
Moreover,    the    first    power    of    Arrogant,    the 
lion-faced,  and    all    his    emanations,  in    mighty 


136  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

multitude,  assembled  together  ;  they  constrained 
Pistis  Sophia,  they  brought  her  again  into  the 
lower  regions  of  chaos,  and  harassed  her  afresh 
exceedingly. 

"  It  came  to  pass,  thereafter,  that  there  looked 
^he     .  ,     down  from  the  height  of  the   twelve 

dsemonial  ° 

power  of       aeons,  Adamas  the  tyrant,  he  who  had 

Adamas  J 

dasheth        been    enraged    against    Pistis    Sophia, 

Sophia  to  .  . 

theground.  because  she  had  desired  to  enter  into 
the  light  of  lights,  (137)  which  was  above  them 
all,  and  therefore  was  he  wroth  against  her.  It 
came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  Adamas  the  tyrant 
had  looked  down  from  the  height  of  the  twelve 
aeons,  that  he  saw  the  emanations  of  Arrogant 
which  were  constraining  Pistis  Sophia  until 
they  should  take  from  her  all  the  light- 
powers  which  were  in  her.  It  came  to  pass, 
when  the  power  of  Adamas  descended  into 
chaos  unto  the  emanations  of  Arrogant,  it  came 
to  pass,  therefore,  when  this  daemonial  power 
descended  into  chaos,  that  it  dashed  Pistis 
Sophia  to  the  earth  ;  and  the  lion-faced  power, 
and  also  the  basilisk-headed  one,  and  the  dragon- 
faced,  and  all  the  emanations  of  Arrogant,  in 
mighty  multitude,  surrounded  Pistis  Sophia 
all  together,  seeking  to  take  from  her  again  the 
powers  which  were  in  her ;  they  mightily  con- 
strained Pistis  Sophia,  and  threatened  her.  It 
came  to  pass,   therefore,   when  they  constrained 


SECOND   BOOK.  137 

her  and  harassed  her  mightily,  that  she  cried 
out  to  the  light,  and  sang  a  song  unto  it, 
saying : 

"  '  0  light,    'tis    thou    who   didst  rescue  me. 
Let  thy  light   descend    upon  me,  for    Sophia 
thou   hast  received   me    unto    thyself,    ^th  to 
and    I  was  going  unto  thee,   0  light,    theli§ht- 
I    trust    in    thee,    0    light ;    for   thou    art    my 
saviour   against    the    emanations    of    Arrogant, 
and   against   Adamas   the    tyrant.     Thou    shalt 
relieve  me  from  all  his  violent  threats.' 

"  And  when  Pistis  Sophia  had  said  this,  then, 
by  order  of  my  father,  the  first  mys-   Gabriel  and 

Michael 

tery  looking  within,  (138)  I  sent  again    and  the 
Gabriel  and   Michael,   and    that  great   stream 
light-stream,   that    they    might  rescue   her  aid. 
Pistis    Sophia.     I    gave    order   to    Gabriel    and 
Michael  to   bear  Pistis   Sophia  in  their  hands, 
so   that   her  feet  should    not   touch   the  lower 
darkness ;    and     I    gave     them    commandment 
further  to  guide   her  in    the    regions  of  chaos, 
from  which  they  were  taking  her. 

"  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  the 
messengers  descended  into  chaos,  they  and  the 
light-stream,  when  all  the  emanations  of 
Arrogant  and  the  emanations  of  Adamas  again 
saw  the  light-stream  which  shone  mightily, 
there  being  no  measure  to  the  light  therein, 
that  they  became  terror-stricken  and  left  Pistis 


138  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

Sophia.  And  the  great  light-stream  surrounded 
Pistis  Sophia  on  every  side,  on  the  right  and  on 
the  left,  on  every  side,  and  became  a  crown  of 
light  upon  her  head. 

"  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  the  light- 
stream  had  surrounded  Pistis  Sophia,  that  she 
took  courage  most  exceedingly,  and  the  stream 
ceased  not  to  surround  her  on  every  side  ;  and 
Pistis  Sophia  no  longer  feared  the  emanations 
of  Arrogant,  which  were  in  chaos,  nor  did  she 
any  more  fear  that  new  power  of  Arrogant, 
which  he  had  cast  into  chaos  like  a  winged 
arrow;  (139)  nor  did  she  tremble  before  the 
daemonial  power  of  Adamas,  which  had  come 
from  the  aeons. 

"  And  again,  by  my  order,  [by  order  of]  the 
first  mystery  looking  without,  the  light-   The  trans- 

1-111  n     i     tv      •       figuration 

stream  which  had  surrounded  ristis  of  Sophia. 
Sophia  on  all  sides,  became  most  exceedingly 
radiant ;  and  Pistis  Sophia  was  tabernacled  in 
the  midst  of  the  light,  a  mighty  light  being  on 
her  left  and  on  her  right,  and  on  all  sides, 
forming  a  crown  on  her  head.  And  all  the 
emanations  of  Arrogant  could  no  longer  change 
their  appearance,  nor  could  they  stand  the 
shock  of  the  great  light  of  the  stream  which 
formed  a  crown  on  the  head  of  Sophia ;  and  all 
the  emanations  of  Arrogant  collapsed,  a  host  of 
them  at  its  right,  because  of  its  mighty  radiance, 


SECOND   BOOK.  139 

and  other  hosts  of  them  at  its  left.  They  could 
no  longer  at  all  draw  nigh  unto  Pistis  Sophia 
because  of  the  great  light ;  but  they  fell  all  one 
on  the  other,  and  could  do  no  harm  unto  Pistis 
Sophia,  because  she  had  trusted  in  the  light. 

"  And  by  order  of  my  father,  the  first  mys- 
tery looking  within,   I  also  descended    Jesus,  the 

J  °  #  first  mys- 

into  chaos,  shining  most  exceedingly  ;   tery,  look- 

0  m  ing  with- 

(140)    I    directed    my    attack   against    out,causeth 

t  «  •  Sophia  to 

that  lion-faced  power,  which  was  shin-  triumph. 
ing  exceedingly,  and  took  from  it  all  its  light ; 
I  prevented  all  the  emanations  of  Arrogant  from 
entering  from  that  hour  into  their  region,  which 
is  the  thirteenth  aeon  ;  I  took  away  the  power 
of  all  the  emanations  of  Arrogant,  and  they  all 
fell  into  chaos  powerless.  And  I  led  forth  Pistis 
Sophia,  who  was  on  the  right  of  Gabriel  and 
Michael ;  and  the  great  light-stream  entered 
into  them.  And  Pistis  Sophia  gazed  upon  her 
enemies,  from  whom  I  had  taken  their  light- 
power.  And  I  led  Pistis  Sophia  forth  from 
chaos,  treading  under  foot  the  serpent-headed 
emanation  of  Arrogant,  and  the  seven-headed 
basilisk  emanation,  the  lion-faced  power,  and 
the  dragon-faced.  I  made  Sophia  stand  upon 
the  seven-headed  basilisk  emanation  of  Arrogant, 
which  was  more  powerful  than  all  of  them  in 
his  evil  doings.  And  I,  the  first  mystery,  stood 
over  it ;  I  took  all   the  powers  which    were  in 


140  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

it,  and  destroyed  all  its  matter,  so  that  no 
seed  shoul3  arise  from  it  from  that  hour." 

(141)  The  first  mystery,  having  spoken  these 
things  unto  his  disciples,  continued,  and  said  : 
"  Understand  ye  how  I  speak  unto  you  ?  " 

And  James  came  forward,  and  said  :  "  Master, 
concerning  the  interpretation  of  the  words 
which  thou  hast  said,  thy  light-power  pro- 
phesied concerning  them  of  old,  through  David, 
in  the  ninetieth  Psalm,  saying  : 

"  '  Whoso  dwelleth  under  the  defence  of  the 
James  in-      most  high  shall  abide  under  the  sha- 

terpretetn  © 

the  narra-     ^ow  0f  fae  God  of  heaven.     He  will 

tive  from 

Psalm xc.  say  unt0  the  lord,  "Thou  hast  re- 
ceived me  unto  thyself;  [thou  art]  my  place 
of  refuge."  He  is  my  God  in  whom  I  have 
trusted ;  for  he  shall  save  me  from  the  snares  of 
the  hunters  and  from  them  that  utter  violent 
words.  He  shall  shelter  thee  beneath  his 
breast,  and  thou  shalt  take  courage  beneath  his 
wings.  His  truth  shall  surround  thee  like  a 
breast-plate  ;  thou  shalt  not  be  afraid  for  the 
terror  of  the  night  nor  for  the  arrow  which  nieth 
by  day,  for  the  thing  that  strideth  in  darkness, 
that  proceedeth  from  the  destruction  of  the 
dsemonial  one  at  mid-day.  (142)  A  thousand 
shall  fall  on  thy  left,  and  ten  thousand  at  thy 
right  hand  ;  but  they  shall  not  come  nigh  thee. 
Thou  shalt  gaze  upon  them,  thou  shalt  see  them 


SECOND   BOOK.  141 

receive  the  payment  of  sinners ;  for  thou,  0 
lord,  art  my  hope.  Thou  hast  established  for 
thyself  places  of  refuge  in  the  height ;  no  one 
shall  come  nigh  thee,  no  plague  come  nigh  thy 
dwelling ;  for  he  hath  given  commandment  to 
his  messengers  concerning  thee  to  keep  thee  in 
all  thy  ways,  to  bear  thee  in  their  hands,  lest 
thou  dash  thy  foot  against  a  stone.  Thou  shalt 
mount  on  the  serpent  and  basilisk ;  thou  shalt 
trample  under  foot  the  lion  and  the  dragon. 
Because  he  hath  trusted  in  me,  I  will  save  him  ; 
I  will  shelter  him,  because  he  hath  known  my 
name.  He  will  cry  unto  me,  and  I  shall  hear 
him  ;  I  am  with  him  in  his  afflictions,  and  I  will 
save  him  to  glorify  him,  and  increase  him  with 
wealth  of  days,  and  teach  him  my  salvation.' 

"  This,  my  Master,  is  the  interpretation  of  the 
words  which  thou  hast  said.  Hearken,  there- 
fore, that  I  may  expound  it  unto  thee  in  free- 
dom. 

"  The  word,  then,  which  thy  power  spake, 
through  David,  '  Who  dwelleth  under  the  de- 
fence of  the  most  high  shall  abide  under  the 
shadow  of  the  God  of  heaven ' ;  that  is,  when 
Sophia  trusted  in  the  light,  she  abode  under  the 
light  of  the  light-stream  which  came  down  from 
the  height  from  thee. 

"And  the  word  which  thy  power  uttered, 
through  David,  '  I  will  say  unto  the  lord,  "  Thou 


142  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

hast  received  me  unto  thyself,"  and  my  place  of 
refuge  is  my  God,  in  whom  I  have  trusted';  this 
is  the  word  which  Pistis  Sophia  spake  in  her 
song,  (143)  '  Thou  hast  received  me  unto  thyself, 
and  I  was  going  unto  thee.' 

"  And,  again,  the  word  which  thy  power 
uttered,  '  My  God,  I  trusted  in  thee  ;  for  thou 
shalt  save  me  from  the  snares  of  the  hunters,  and 
from  them  that  utter  violent  words ' ;  this  is 
what  Pistis  Sophia  said,  '  0  light,  I  have 
trusted  in  thee ;  for  thou  shalt  save  me  from 
the  emanations  of  Arrogant  and  from  those  of 
tyrant  Adamas  ;  thou,  moreover,  shalt  save  me 
from  all  their  violent  threats.' 

"  And,  again,  the  word  which  thy  power 
spake  through  David,  '  He  shall  shelter  thee 
under  his  breast,  and  thou  shalt  take  courage 
beneath  his  wings,'  meaneth  that  Pistis  Sophia 
hath  dwelt  in  the  light  of  that  light-stream 
which  came  forth  from  thee,  and  she  was  as- 
tonished in  heart  by  the  light  which  was  on  her 
left,  and  that  which  was  at  her  right,  that  is  to 
say,  the  wings  of  the  light-stream. 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  light-power  pro- 
phesied through  David,  '  Truth  shall  surround 
thee  like  a  breast-plate ' ;  that  is,  the  light 
of  the  light-stream  which  surrounded  Pistis 
Sophia  like  a  breast-plate. 

"And  the  word    which    thy    power  uttered, 


SECOND   BOOK.  143 

1  He  shall  not  be  afraid  for  the  terror  of  the  night' ; 
that  is,  that  Pistis  Sophia  was  not  afraid  before 
the  terrors  and  troubles  into  which  she  had  been 
sent  in  chaos,  which  is  night. 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake, 
(144)  '  He  shall  not  be  afraid  of  the  arrow  which 
flieth  by  day ' ;  that  is,  that  Pistis  Sophia  was 
not  afraid  before  that  power  which  Arrogant  had 
sent  from  the  top  of  the  heights,  and  which 
descended  into  chaos  like  a  flying  arrow,  just  as 
thy  light-power  prophesied,  '  Thou  shalt  not  be 
afraid  of  the  arrow  that  flieth  by  day  ' ;  for  this 
power  came  forth  from  the  thirteenth  aeon  which 
is  lord  of  the  twelve  aeons  ;  he  it  is  who  is  light 
for  all  the  aeons.  Therefore  he  [David]  hath 
used  the  word  '  day.' 

"  And  again  the  word  which  thy  power 
uttered,  '  He  shall  not  be  afraid  of  the  thing 
that  strideth  in  darkness '  ;  that  is,  that  Sophia 
did  not  fear  before  the  serpent-headed  emana- 
tion, which  made  her  afraid  in  chaos,  which  is 
'  darkness.' 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake,  '  He 
will  not  fear  for  the  destruction,  the  dsemonial 
one  at  mid-day ' ;  that  is,  that  Pistis  Sophia  was 
not  afraid  before  the  dsemonial  emanation  of 
tyrant  Adamas,  which  cast  Pistis  Sophia  to  the 
"eartiirin  great  destruction,  that  which  came  forth 

from    Adamas,    from    the    twelfth    aeon.     (145) 

1 


144  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

Therefore,  thy  power  prophesied,  '  He  will  not 
fear  the  destruction  of  the  daemonial  one  at  mid- 
day '  ;  mid-day,  because  it  came  forth  from  the 
twelfth  aeon,  which  is  mid-day  [the  twelfth  hour]  ; 
and  again  because  it  descended  into  chaos,  which 
is  night,  or  rather  the  night  which  descended  from 
the  twelfth  aeon  which  is  between  the  two. 
Therefore,  thy  light-power  spake  of  mid-day, 
because  the  twelve  aeons  are  between  the  thir- 
teenth and  chaos. 

"  And  again  the  word  which  thy  light-power 
spake  through  David,  '  A  thousand  shall  fall  on 
thy  left,  and  ten  thousand  at  thy  right  hand, 
but  they  shall  not  come  nigh  thee  '  ;  that  is  to 
say,  when  the  emanations  of  Arrogant,  which 
were  very  many  in  number,  could  not  stand  the 
great  light  of  the  light- stream,  a  host  of  them 
fell  on  the  left  hand  of  Pistis  Sophia,  and  a  host 
at  her  right,  and  they  could  not  at  all  come 
nigh  her  to  do  her  harm. 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake 
through  David,  '  But  thou  shalt  gaze  upon  them, 
and  thou  shalt  see  the  reward  of  sinners ;  for 
thou,  0  lord,  art  my  hope ' ;  that  is,  that  Pistis 
Sophia  looked  upon  her  enemies,  which  are  the 
emanations  of  Arrogant,  who  had  fallen  all  the 
one  on  the  other;  (146)  and  not  only  did  she 
gaze  upon  them  in  this  state,  but  thou  also,  my 
Master,  the  first  mystery,  thou  didst  take  away 


SECOND   BOOK.  145 

the  light-power  which  was  in  that  lion-faced 
power,  and  further  thou  didst  take  away  the 
power  of  all  the  emanations  of  Arrogant,  and 
moreover  thou  didst  prevent  them  from  that 
hour  entering  their  own  region  from  chaos. 
Therefore  did  Pistis  Sophia  look  on  her  enemies  ; 
that  is  to  say,  the  emanations  of  Arrogant  just 
precisely  as  David  prophesied  concerning  her, 
saying,  '  But  thou  shalt  look  upon  them,  and 
thou  shalt  see  the  payment  of  the  sinners.'  Not 
only  did  she  look  upon  them  fallen  the  one  on 
the  other,  but  she  also  beheld  the  payment 
which  they  have  received.  Just  as  the  emana- 
tions of  Arrogant  thought  to  take  away  the 
light  which  was  in  Pistis  Sophia,  so  hast  thou 
recompensed  them  ;  thou  hast  paid  them  their 
payment,  and  thou  hast  taken  the  light-power 
which  was  in  them,  instead  of  the  light  of  Sophia 
who  had  trusted  in  the  light  of  the  height. 

"  And  as  thy  light-power  spake  through  David, 
'  Thou  hast  established  the  height  for  thyself 
as  a  place  of  refuge  ;  no  evil  shall  come  nigh 
thee,  no  plague  shall  enter  into  thy  house '  ; 
that  is  to  say,  when  Pistis  Sophia  trusted  in 
the  light,  and  when  she  was  in  peril,  she  sang 
unto  it  a  song,  and  the  emanations  of  Arrogant 
could  not  do  her  any  harm,  (147)  they  could 
not  injure  her,  they  could  not  at  all  come  nigh 

her. 

10 


146  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  light-power  uttered 
through  David,  l  He  will  give  commandment  to 
his  messengers  concerning  thee,  to  keep  thee  in 
all  thy  ways,  to  bear  thee  in  their  hands,  lest 
thou  dash  thy  foot  against  a  stone ' ;  that  is  to 
say  also,  thou  hast  given  commandment  to 
Gabriel  and  Michael  to  guide  Pistis  Sophia  in 
all  the  regions  of  chaos,  to  bear  her  in  their 
hands  until  they  had  helped  her  rise  up,  so  that 
her  feet  should  not  touch  the  lower  darkness, 
and  they  of  the  lower  darkness  should  not  seize 
hold  of  her. 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  light-power  spake 
through  David,  '  Thou  shalt  trample  on  the 
serpent  and  the  basilisk,  and  thou  shalt  tread 
under  foot  the  lion  and  the  dragon  ;  because  he 
hath  had  trust  in  me,  I  will  save  him,  and  I  will 
shelter  him,  because  he  hath  known  my  name ' ; 
that  is  to  say,  when  Pistis  Sophia  was  just 
leaving  chaos,  she  trod  under  foot  the  emana- 
tions of  Arrogant ;  she  trampled  on  them  that 
had  serpent  heads,  and  basilisk  heads,  and  seven 
heads ;  and  she  trod  under  foot  that  lion-faced 
power,  and  that  dragon-headed  one,  because  she 
had  trusted  in  the  light,  and  it  had  saved  her 
from  them  all. 

"  This,  0  Master,  is  the  interpretation  of  the 
words  which  thou  hast  said." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  the  first  mystery  had 


SECOND   BOOK.  147 

heard  these  words,   that  he  said  :   "  Well  said, 
James,  thou  well  beloved." 

(148)  And  the  first  mystery  again  continued 
in  his  conversation,  and  said  to  his  disciples  : 
"  It  came  to  pass,  when  I  had  led  Pistis  Sophia 
out  of  chaos,  that  she  cried  out  anew,  say- 
ing : 

"  <i  have  been  rescued  from  chaos ;  I  have 
been  loosed  from  the  bonds  of  dark-  gophia 
ness.  I  have  come  unto  thee,  0  light,  ^6^  a 
for  thou  hast  been  for  me  light  on  all  Praise- 
sides,  preserving  and  helping  me.  And  the  ema- 
nations of  Arrogant,  which  fought  against  me, 
thou  hast  kept  therefrom  by  thy  light,  and  they 
have  not  been  able  to  draw  nigh  unto  me ;  for 
thy  light  was  with  me  and  preserved  me  through 
thy  light-stream,  because  the  emanations  of 
Arrogant  constrained  me,  they  took  away  my 
power,  and  cast  me  into  chaos  deprived  of  my 
light,  and  I  became  as  gross  matter  before  them. 
Then  came  forth  the  power  of  the  light-stream 
unto  me  from  thee  to  save  me ;  it  shone  on  my 
left  and  on  my  right,  surrounding  me  on  all 
sides,  so  that  no  part  of  my  being  was  without 
light,  and  thou  didst  hide  me  in  the  light  of  thy 
stream.  Thou  didst  purge  in  me  all  my  evil 
matters,  and  I  rose  superior  to  all  my  matters, 
because  of  thy  light  and  of  thy  light-stream, 
which  hath  raised  me  up,  and  hath  kept  far  from 


148  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

me  the  emanations  of  Arrogant  which  constrained 
me.  (149)  I  became  stout  of  heart  in  thy  light, 
and  in  the  pure  light  of  thy  stream.  And  the 
emanations  of  Arrogant  which  constrained  me 
withdrew  themselves  from  me,  and  I  became 
radiant  in  thy  great  power.  Thou  hast  saved 
me  and  hast  preserved  me  for  ever.' 

"This  is  the  repentance  which  Pistis  Sophia 
uttered,  when  she  came  forth  from  chaos  and 
was  freed  from  the  bonds  of  chaos.  Now, 
therefore,  he  that  hath  ears  to  hear,  let  him 
hear." 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  the  first 
mystery  had  finished  saying  these  words  unto 
his  disciples,  that  Thomas  came  forward,  and 
said  :  "  Master,  my  light-dweller  hath  ears,  and 
my  spirit  understandeth  the  words  which  thou 
hast  said.  Now,  therefore,  give  commandment 
unto  me  to  expound  clearly  the  interpretation  of 
the  words." 

The  first  mystery  answered,  and  said  unto 
Thomas  :  "  I  give  thee  commandment  to  expound 
the  interpretation  of  the  song  which  Pistis 
Sophia  sang  in  my  honour." 

Thomas  answered,  and  said :  "  My  Master, 
concerning  the  song  which  Pistis  Sophia  uttered, 
because  she  was  preserved  from  chaos,  thy  light- 
power  prophesied  of  old  concerning  thee,  through 
Solomon,  the  son  of  David,  in  his  Odes,  saying  : 


SECOND   BOOK.  149 

(150)  "  '  I  have  been  loosed  from  my  bonds  ;  I 
have  run  unto  thee,  0  lord,  for  thou   Thomas 
wert  at  my  right  hand  preserving  me,    ethtnT*" 
preserving  and  helping  me.     Thou  hast   g^?* 
prevented    them   that   fought   against   Qdesof6 
me,  and  they  did  not  show  themselves   Solomon. 
because  thy  countenance  was  with  me,  preserv- 
ing me  by  its  beauty.     I   was  despised  before 
the  crowd,  and  have  been  cast  out ;  I  was  as 
lead  in  their  presence.     But  a  power  came  forth 
unto  me  from  thee,  helping  me ;  for  thou  hast 
set  lamps  on  my  right   hand   and   on  my  left, 
so  that  no  part  of  my  being  should  be  without 
light.     Thou  didst  shelter  me  under  the  shadow 
of  thy  mercy,  and  I  was  placed  above  the  coats 
of  skin.     Thy  right  hand   hath  raised   me  up, 
and  hath  taken  my  sickness  from  me.     I  have 
become     strong    in    thy    truth,    pure    in    thy 
righteousness.      They   that   fought   against   me 
have    withdrawn    themselves   from   me,    and    I 
have  been  justified    by  thy  goodness,   for   thy 
rest  is  from  eternity  to  eternity.' 

"This,  0  Master,  is  the  interpretation  of  the 
repentance  which  Pistis  Sophia  spake,  when  she 
was  preserved  from  chaos.  Hearken,  therefore, 
while  I  expound  it  in  freedom. 

"The  word,  then,  which  thy  power  spake 
through  Solomon,  '  I  have  been  loosed  from 
bonds,   I  have  run  unto  thee,  0  lord ' ;    this  is 


150  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

the  word  which  Pistis  Sophia  spake,  '  I  have 
been  loosed  from  the  bonds  of  darkness ;  I  have 
come  unto  thee,  0  light.' 

(151)  "And  the  word  which  thy  power 
uttered,  '  Thou  wert  at  my  right  hand,  preserv- 
ing and  helping  me ' ;  this  is  again  the  word 
which  Pistis  Sophia  spake,  '  Thou  hast  been  a 
light  for  me  on  all  sides,  and  thou  hast  helped 
me.' 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  light-power  spake, 
'  Thou  hast  prevented  them  that  fought  against 
me,  and  they  did  not  show  themselves  ' ;  this 
is  the  word  which  Pistis  Sophia  spake,  '  And 
the  emanations  of  Arrogant,  which  fought  against 
me,  thou  hast  prevented  by  thy  light,  and  they 
have  not  been  able  to  draw  nigh  unto  me.' 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake,  '-Thy 
countenance  was  with  me,  preserving  me  by  its 
beauty ' ;  this  is  the  word  which  Pistis  Sophia 
spake,  '  Thy  light  was  with  me,  preserving  me 
in  thy  light-stream.' 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake,  '  I 
was  despised  before  the  crowd,  and  have  been 
cast  out ' ;  this  is  the  word  which  Pistis  Sophia 
spake,  '  The  emanations  of  Arrogant  constrained 
me,  they  took  away  my  power,  and  I  became 
for  them  an  object  of  derision  ;  they  cast  me 
into  chaos,  deprived  of  my  light.' 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake,   '  I 


SECOND   BOOK.  151 

was  as  lead  in  their  presence ' ;  this  is  the  word 
which  Pistis  Sophia  spake,  '  When  they  had 
taken  away  my  light-powers,  I  became  as  gross 
matter  before  them.' 

"And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake,  '  But 
a  power  came  forth  unto  me  from  thee,  helping 
me';  (152)  this  is  again  the  word  which  Pistis 
Sophia  spake,  '  And  then  the  power  of  the 
light-stream  came  forth  unto  me  from  thee, 
preserving  me.' 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake, 
'  Thou  hast  set  lamps  on  my  right  hand  and  on 
my  left,  so  that  no  part  of  my  being  should  be 
without  light ' ;  this  is  the  word  which  Pistis 
Sophia  spake,  '  Thy  power  shone  on  my  right 
and  on  my  left  hand,  surrounding  me  on  all 
sides,  so  that  no  part  of  my  being  was  without 
light.' 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake, 
'  Thou  didst  shelter  me  under  the  shadow  of  thy 
mercy ' ;  this  is  again  the  word  which  Pistis 
Sophia  spake,  '  And  thou  didst  clothe  me  in 
the  light  of  thy  stream.' 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake,  '  I 
was  placed  above  the  coats  of  skin ' ;  this  is 
again  the  word  which  Pistis  Sophia  spake,  '  And 
they  have  purged  in  me  all  my  evil  matters,  and 
I  rose  superior  to  them  by  thy  light.' 

"  And    the    word    which    thy    power    spake 


152  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

through  Solomon,  '  Thy  right  hand  hath  raised 
me  up,  and  hath  taken  my  sickness  from  me '  ; 
this  is  the  word  which  Pistis  Sophia  said,  '  And 
thy  light-stream  hath  raised  me  up  in  the  light, 
and  hath  removed  from  me  the  emanations  of 
Arrogant,  who  constrained  me.' 

(153)  "  And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake, 
'  I  have  become  strong  in  thy  truth,  and  pure 
in  thy  righteousness ' ;  this  is  the  word  which 
Pistis  Sophia  spake,  '  I  became  stout  of  heart 
in  thy  light,  and  I  am  become  a  pure  light  in 
thy  light-stream.' 

And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake,  '  They 
that  fought  against  me,  have  withdrawn  them- 
selves from  me ' ;  this  is  the  word  which  Pistis 
Sophia  spake,  '  And  the  emanations  of  Arro- 
gant which  constrained  me,  withdrew  them- 
selves from  me.' 

"And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake 
through  Solomon,  '  And  I  have  been  justified  by 
thy  goodness,  for  thy  rest  is  from  eternity  to 
eternity ' ;  this  is  the  word  which  Pistis  Sophia 
spake,  '  I  have  been  preserved  in  thy  goodness  ; 
for  thou  dost  preserve  the  whole  world.' 

"This,  then,  0  my  Master,  is  the  whole 
interpretation  of  the  repentance  which  Pistis 
Sophia  uttered,  when  she  had  been  rescued  from 
chaos  and  freed  from  the  bonds  of  darkness." 

It  came  to  pass,   when  the  first  mystery  had 


SECOND   BOOK.  153 

heard  Thomas  utter  these  words,  that  he  said  : 
"  Well  said ;  it  is  well,  Thomas,  thou  blessed 
one.  This  is  the  interpretation  of  the  song  sung 
by  Pistis  Sophia." 

The  first  mystery  continued  in  his  conversa- 
tion, and  said  unto  his  disciples  :  "  Pistis  Sophia 
continued,  and  sung  a  song  unto  me,  saying : 

" '  I  sing  a  song  unto  thee,  unto  thee,  who, 
(154)  by  thy  commandment,  hast  led  Sophia 
me  forth  from  a  high  seon  which  is  S^ong" 
above ;  and  thou  hast  made  me  come  of  Pralse- 
into  the  lower  regions ;  and  again,  by  thy 
commandment,  thou  hast  preserved  me  from  the 
lower  regions.  By  thy  grace  thou  hast  removed 
the  matter  which  was  in  my  light-power,  and  I 
have  seen.  Thou  hast  scattered  far  from  me 
the  emanations  of  Arrogant,  which  constrained 
me  and  were  my  enemies.  Thou  hast  given  me 
power  to  unloose  the  bonds  of  the  emanations  of 
Adamas ;  and  thou  hast  smitten  the  seven- 
headed  basilisk-serpent.  Thou  hast  cast  it  far 
from  my  hands ;  and  thou  hast  set  me  above  its 
matter.  Thou  hast  caused  it  to  perish,  so  that 
its  seed  should  not  arise  from  this  hour  forth. 
Thou  wert  with  me,  giving  me  power  in  all 
this  [affliction].  And  thy  light  hath  surrounded 
me  in  all  the  region.  And  of  thyself  thou  didst 
make  all  the  emanations  of  Arrogant  powerless  ; 
for  thou  hast  taken  away  the  light-power  which 


154  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

was  in  them.  Thou  hast  made  straight  my 
path  to  lead  me  out  of  chaos.  Thou  hast  carried 
me  far  from  this  material  darkness,  and  thou  hast 
taken  from  it  all  my  powers,  from  which  the  light 
had  been  taken.  Thou  hast  infused  into  them 
a  pure  light,  (155)  and  unto  my  limbs,  which 
had  no  light,  thou  hast  given  a  pure  light  from 
the  light  of  the  height.  Thou  hast  made 
straight  the  way  before  them,  and  the  light  of 
thy  countenance  hath  become  for  me  a  life  that 
can  never  be  destroyed.  Thou  hast  brought  me 
forth  from  the  higher  part  of  chaos,  the  region 
of  chaos  and  of  destruction,  in  order  that  all  the 
matters  that  were  therein,  might  be  scattered, 
[the  matters]  which  are  in  that  region.  And,  in 
order  that  all  my  powers  might  be  renewed  and 
thy  light  be  in  them  all,  thou  hast  set  the  light 
of  thy  stream  in  me ;  I  have  become  a  pure 
light-power.' 

"  This  is  the  second  song  which  Pistis  Sophia 
uttered.  Now,  therefore,  let  him  who  under- 
standeth  the  repentance  come  forward,  and  ex- 
pound it." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  the  first  mystery  had 
finished  speaking  those  words,  that  Matthew 
came  forward,  and  said :  "I  have  understood 
the  interpretation  of  the  song  which  Pistis 
Sophia  uttered.  Now,  therefore,  give  com- 
mandment unto  me,  to  expound  it  in  freedom." 


SECOND   BOOK.  155 

The  first  mystery  answered,  and  said :  "I 
give  thee  commandment,  0  Matthew,  to  ex- 
pound the  interpretation  of  the  song  which 
Pistis  Sophia  uttered." 

And   Matthew    answered,    and    said :    "  Con- 
cerning the   interpretation  of   the    song   which 
Pistis     Sophia    spake,     thy    light-power     pro- 
phesied of  old  concerning  it,  through  Solomon, 
.  saying  : 

'  He   who   hath  made  me  to  descend  from 
the  lofty  regions  of  heaven,  (156)  and   Matthew 
who  hath  led  me  into  the  regions  which   ethrtle6 
are  in  the  lower  foundation  ;  who  hath    lophia 
taken  therefrom  them  that  were  in  the   QdS  of6 
middle  region,  and  who  hath  instruct-    Solomon- 
ed  them  ;  who  hath  scattered  my  enemies  and 
my    adversaries ;    who    hath    given    me    power 
against  the  bonds  to  unloose   them  ;  who  hath 
smitten  the  seven-headed  serpent  in  my  hands, 
and  set  me  up  upon  his  root,  that  I  may  blot 
out  his  seed — he  is  thyself  who  wert  with  me, 
and   helped    me    in    every    region.     Thy    name 
hath    surrounded    me ;    thy    right    hand    hath 
destroyed   the   venom  of  the  speaker  of  evils ; 
thy  right  hand  hath  opened  the  path  for  thy 
righteous ;    thou    hast    preserved    them   in    the 
tombs,  and  hast  borne  them  from  the  midst  of 
the  corpses.     Thou  hast  taken  dead  bones,  and 
hast  clothed  them   with   a  body,  and  to  them 


156  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

that  stirred  not  thou  hast  given  the  energy  of 
life.  Thy  way  is  void  of  destruction,  and  so 
also  thy  countenance.  Thou  hast  led  thine  aeon 
into  destruction,  that  all  might  be  destroyed 
and  be  again  renewed,  and  that  thy  light  might 
become  a  foundation  for  them  all.  Thou  hast 
poured  out  thy  wealth  upon  them,  and  they 
have  become  a  holy  place.' 

"This  is  the  interpretation,  0  Master,  of  the 
song  which  Pistis  Sophia  uttered.  Hearken, 
therefore,  that  I  may  expound  it  openly. 

"  The  word  which  thy  power  spake  through 
Solomon,  '  He  who  hath  made  me  to  descend 
from  the  lofty  regions  of  heaven,  and  who  hath, 
moreover,  made  me  enter  into  the  regions  of  the 
lower  foundation ' ;  this  is  the  word  which  Pistis 
Sophia  spake,  (157)  'I  sing  a  song  unto  thee,  0 
thou,  who,  by  thy  commandment,  hath  made 
me  come  forth  from  this  high  aeon  above  the 
heaven,  and  who  hath  led  me  into  the  lower 
regions ;  and  thou  hast  preserved  me  also  by 
thy  commandment,  thou  hast  made  me  rise  up 
from  the  lower  regions.' 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake 
through  Solomon,  '  Who  hath  taken  therefrom 
them  that  were  in  the  middle  region,  and  hath 
instructed  me ' ;  this  is  the  word  which  Pistis 
Sophia  spake,  '  And  also  by  thy  commandment, 
thou  hast  caused  the  matter  which  was  in  the 


SECOND   BOOK.  157 

midst  of  my  power  to  be  purified ;  and  I  have 
seen  it.' 

"  And  also  the  word  which  thy  power  spake 
through  Solomon,  '  Who  hath  scattered  my 
enemies  and  my  adversaries ' ;  this  is  the  word 
which  Pistis  Sophia  spake,  '  Thou  hast  scattered 
far  from  me  the  emanations  of  Arrogant,  which 
constrained  me,  and  were  my  enemies.' 

"  And  also  the  word  which  thy  power  spake, 
1  Who  hath  given  me  wisdom  over  the  bonds  to 
unloose  them '  ;  this  is  the  word  which  Pistis 
Sophia  spake,  '  He  hath  given  me  wisdom  to 
unloose  the  bonds  of  these  emanations.' 

"And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake, 
'  Who  hath  smitten  the  seven-headed  serpent  in 
my  hands,  and  set  me  up  upon  his  root,  that  I 
may  blot  out  his  seed ' ;  this  is  the  word  that 
Pistis  Sophia  spake,  (158)  'Thou  hast  smitten 
the  seven-headed  serpent  by  my  hands,  and 
thou  hast  set  me  up  above  his  tribes ;  thou  hast 
caused  it  to  perish,  so  that  its  seed  should  not 
arise  from  this  hour.' 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake,  '  But 
thou  wert  with  me,  helping  me ' ;  this  is  the 
word  which  Pistis  Sophia  spake,  '  Thou  wert 
with  me,  giving  me  power  in  all  this  [affliction].' 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake, 
'  Thy  name  hath  surrounded  me  in  every 
region '  ;  this  is  the  word  which  Pistis  Sophia 


158  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

spake,  '  And  thy  light  hath  surrounded  me  in 
all  the  regions.' 

"And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake, 
1  Thy  right  hand  hath  destroyed  the  venom  of 
the  speakers  of  evils '  ;  this  is  the  word  which 
Pistis  Sophia  spake,  '  And  of  thyself  thou  didst 
make  all  the  emanations  of  Arrogant  powerless  ; 
for  thou  hast  taken  from  them  their  power.' 

"And  the  word  which  thy  power  hath  said, 
'  Thy  right  hand  hath  opened  the  path  for  thy 
faithful ' ;  this  is  the  word  which  Pistis  Sophia 
spake,  '  Thou  hast  made  straight  my  path  to 
lead  me  out  of  chaos,  for  I  have  trusted  in 
thee.' 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake, 
'  Thou  hast  rescued  them  from  the  tombs,  and 
thou  hast  borne  them  from  the  midst  of  the 
corpses '  ;  this  is  the  word  which  Pistis  Sophia 
spake,  '  Thou  hast  rescued  me  from  chaos,  thou 
hast  carried  me  far  from  this  material  darkness 
(159)  which  is  the  murky  emanation  of  chaos, 
from  which  thou  hast  taken  away  the  light.' 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake, 
'  Thou  hast  taken  dead  bones  and  hast  clothed 
them  with  a  body,  and  to  them  that  stirred  no^ 
thou  hast  given  the  energy  of  life  ' ;  this  is  the 
word  which  Pistis  Sophia  spake,  '  And  thou 
hast  taken  all  my  powers  which  had  no  light 
in  them,   and  hast  infused    into    them    a  pure 


SECOND   BOOK.  159 

light,  and  unto  all  my  limbs  which  had  no  light 
in  them,  thou  hast  given  a  living  light  from  on 
high.' 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake, 
'  Thy  way  is  void  of  destruction,  and  so  also 
thy  countenance '  ;  this  is  the  word  which  Pistis 
Sophia  spake,  '  Thou  hast  made  straight  thy 
way  for  me  and  the  light  of  thy  countenance  ; 
they  have  been  a  way  void  of  destruction  unto 
me.' 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake, 
'  Thou  hast  led  thine  seon  into  destruction,  that 
all  might  be  destroyed  and  be  again  renewed ' ; 
this  is  the  word  which  Pistis  Sophia  spake,  '  Thou 
hast  brought  me,  thy  power,  into  chaos  and 
destruction,  that  all  the  matters  which  were  in 
that  region  might  be  dissolved,  and  all  my 
power  be  renewed  in  the  light.' 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  power  spake, 
'  And  thy  light  hath  become  a  foundation  for 
them  all '  ;  this  is  the  word  which  Pistis  Sophia 
spake,  (160)  'And  thy  light  hath  been  in  them  all.' 

"  And  the  word  which  thy  light-power  uttered 
through  Solomon,  '  Thou  hast  poured  out  thy 
wealth  upon  him,  and  he  hath  become  a  place 
of  holy  habitation ' ;  this  is  the  word  which 
Pistis  Sophia  spake,  '  Thou  hast  concentrated 
the  light  of  thy  stream  upon  me,  and  I  have 
become  a  pure  light-power/ 


160  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

"  This,  then,  my  Master,  is  the  interpretation 
of  the  song  which  Pistis  Sophia  spake." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  the  first  mystery 
had  heard  these  words  which  Matthew  had 
uttered,  that  he  said  :  "  Well  said,  Matthew ;  it 
is  well,  0  well-beloved.  This  is  the  interpreta- 
tion of  the  song  which  Pistis  Sophia  spake." 

And  the  first  mystery  continued  in  his  con- 
Sophiacon-   versation,  and  said  :    "  '  I  will  declare 

tinueth  to  i  . 

sing.  that  it  is  thou,    (J   light    most    high, 

that  hast  preserved  me,  and  hast  brought 
me  unto  thee ;  who  hast  prevented  the  emana- 
tions of  Arrogant,  which  were  my  enemies,  from 
taking  my  light,  0  light  of  light.  I  have  sung 
a  song  unto  thee ;  thou  hast  preserved  me,  0 
light ;  thou  hast  brought  my  power  out  of  chaos  ; 
thou  hast  preserved  me  from  them  that  descend 
into  the  darkness.' 

"  These  words  Pistis  Sophia  uttered.  Now, 
therefore,  let  him  who  hath  a  comprehending 
mind,  and  who  hath  understood  the  words 
uttered  by  Pistis  Sophia,  come  forward  and 
expound  their  interpretation." 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  the  first 
Mary  is        mystery  had   finished   speaking  these 

afraid  of  ,.,..,  ,  ,  T 

Peter.  words   unto    his   disciples,   that  Mary 

came  forward,  and  said:  (161)  "  Master,  my 
mind  is  ever  comprehending,  so  that  I  could 
come    forward    every    time    and   expound   the 


SECOND   BOOK.  161 

interpretation  of  the  words  which  she  spake  ; 
but  I  fear  Peter,  for  he  hath  threatened  me,  and 
hateth  our  sex." 

And  when  she  had  spoken  these  words,  the 
first  mystery  said  unto  her :  "  No  one  shall 
prevent  whosoever  shall  be  filled  with  the 
spirit  of  light  from  coming  forward  and  expound- 
ing the  interpretation  of  what  I  say.  Now, 
therefore,  0  Mary,  expound  the  interpretation  of 
the  words  uttered  by  Pistis  Sophia." 

And  Mary  answered  and  said  unto  the  first 
mystery  in  the  midst  of  the  disciples  :  "  Master, 
concerning  the  interpretation  of  the  words 
■uttered  by  Pistis  Sophia,  thy  light-power  pro- 
phesied of  old,  through  David,  saying  : 

"'I  will  magnify  thee,  0  lord,  for  thou  hast 
received  me  unto  thyself,  and  thou  Mary  inter- 
hast  not  let  mine  enemies  rejoice  over  ^gof  the 
me.  0  lord,  my  God,  I  have  cried  £°^L 
unto  thee,  and  thou  hast  healed  me.  Psalms- 
0  lord,  thou  hast  drawn  my  soul  forth  from 
hell,  thou  hast  saved  me  from  them  that  de- 
scend into  the  pit.'  " 

When  Mary  had  spoken  these  things,  the  first 
mystery  said  unto  her,  "  Well  said ;  it  is  well, 
Mary,  thou  blessed  one." 

He  continued  in  his  conversation,  and  said  unto 

his  disciples  :  (162)  "And  Sophia  continued  in 

her  song,  and  said  : 

11 


162  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

"  '  The  light  hath  been  a  saviour  unto  me  ;  it 
Sophia  con-    hath  changed  my  darkness  into  light ; 

tinueth  her     .-.■,-,/»-,  -,      -,  -, 

song.  it    hath   clelt  the   darkness    that    sur- 

rounded me,  and  hath  girded  me  with  light.' 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  the  first 
mystery  had  finished  speaking  these  words, 
that  Martha  came  forward,  and  said  :  "  Master, 
thy  power  hath  prophesied  of  old  through  David, 
concerning  this  word,  saying : 

"  '  The  Lord  hath  been  my  succour  ;  he  hath 
Martha  in-    changed    my   song    of   mourning    into 

&omtheh      J°y*  ^e      natn     rent      my     Sackcloth, 

Psalms.  an(J  gir(^ecl  me  with  joy.'  " 

It  came  to  pass,  when  the  first  mystery  had 
finished  hearing  the  words  which  Martha  had 
uttered,  that  he  said  :  "  Well  said ;  it  is  well, 
Martha." 

And  the  first  mystery  continued  in  his  con- 
versation, and  said  unto  his  disciples  :  "  Pistis 
Sophia  further  continued  with  her  song,  and 
said : 

"  '  Sing  a  song,  0  my  power,  to  the  light,  and 
Sophia  con-   forget  not;  all  the  light-powers  which 

tinueth  her  °  or 

song-  it  hath  given  unto  thee,  and  all  the 

powers  which  are  in  thee.  Sing  the  name  of 
his  holy  mystery,  which  remitteth  every  trans- 
gression ;  [of  him]  who  saveth  thee  from  all  the 
afflictions  with  which  the  emanations  of  Arro- 
gant have  constrained  thee  ;  who  hath  preserved 


SECOND   BOOK.  163 

their  light  from  all  the  emanations  of  Arrogant, 
which  are  numbered  for  destruction;  (163)  who 
hath  bestowed  a  crown  of  light  upon  thy  head 
to  preserve  thee ;  who  hath  filled  thee  with 
pure  light,  and  thy  source  shall  be  renewed  as 
an  invisible  of  the  heights.' 

"These  words  Pistis  Sophia  said,  in  that  she 
had  been  preserved  and  remembered  all  things 
which  had  been  done  unto  her." 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  the  first 
mystery  had  finished  speaking  these  words  unto 
his  disciples,  that  he  said  unto  them  :  "  Let  him 
who  understandeth  the  interpretation  of  these 
words  come  forward  and  expound  it  in  free- 
dom." 

Then  Mary  came  forward,  and  said :  "  My 
Master,  concerning  the  words  which  Pistis 
Sophia  uttered  in  her  song,  tlry  light-power 
prophesied  of  old,  through  David,  saying  : 

"  '  Praise  the  lord,  0  my  soul ;  let  all  that  is 
within  me  praise  his  holy  name  and  Mary  inter- 
forget  not  all  his  recompenses  ;  [for  he  ^f  the 
it  is]  who  remitteth  all  thy  iniquities  ;  Psalms- 
who  healeth  all  thy  infirmities ;  who  saveth  thy 
life  from  destruction  ;  who  putteth  on  thy  head 
a  crown  of  mercy  and  loving  kindness ;  who 
satisfieth  thy  desire  with  good  things.  Thy 
childhood  shall  be  renewed  like  an  eagle's.' 

"  That  is  to  say,  Sophia  shall  be  like  those 


164  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

invisibles  who  are  in  the  heights,  for  he  said, 
1  like  an  eagle,'  for  the  dwelling  of  an  eagle  is 
in  the  heights,  and  the  invisibles  are  also  in  the 
heights;  (164)  that  is  to  say,  that  Pistis  Sophia 
shall  become  radiant  like  the  invisibles,  just  as 
she  was  in  the  beginning." 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  the  first 
mystery  had  heard  these  words  which  Mary 
had  spoken,  that  he  said :  "  Well  said,  Mary, 
thou  blessed  one." 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  after  this,  that 
Sophia  is  the  first  myStery  continued  again  in 
region  be-     ys    conversation,    and    said    unto   his 

low  the 

thirteenth     disciples  :  "  I  took  Pistis  Sophia,  I  led 

aeon,  and  x  A 

given  a         ner  into  a  region  below  the  thirteenth 

new  mys-  ° 

tery.  seon,  and  I  gave  unto  her  a  new  mys- 

tery which  was  not  that  of  her  own  seon,  [the 
mystery  of]  the  invisible  region.  And  I  gave 
unto  her  also  a  song  of  light,  so  that  from  that 
hour  the  rulers  of  the  aeons  should  not  prevail 
against  her.  And  I  left  her  in  that  region  until 
I  should  come  again  to  find  her,  and  bring  her 
into  her  region  which  is  in  the  heights.  It 
came  to  pass,  when  I  had  left  her  in  that  region, 
that  she  again  uttered  her  soDg,  saying  : 

"  '  In  faith  have  I  trusted  in  the  light ;  it 
She  con-       hath  accomplished  my  desire,  it  hath 

tinuethher 

song.  brought  my  power  out  of  chaos  and 

from  the  lower  darkness  of  every  matter.     It 


SECOND   BOOK.  165 

hath  led  me  on  high,  it  hath  set  me  in  an  aeon 
lofty  and  firm.  It  hath  set  me  on  the  path 
which  leadeth  to  my  region,  and  hath  given 
unto  me  a  new  mystery,  which  is  not  that  of 
my  aeon.  It  hath  given  unto  me  a  song  of 
light.  Now,  therefore,  0  light,  the  rulers  shall 
see  what  thou  hast  done  ;  (165)  they  shall  fear, 
and  they  shall  believe  in  the  light.' 

"  This  song,  therefore,  Pistis  Sophia  uttered, 
rejoicing  that  she  had  been  led  out  of  chaos  and 
brought  into  regions  below  the  thirteenth  aeon. 
Now,  therefore,  let  him  whose  mind  is  stirred, 
and  who  understandeth  the  interpretation  of 
the  meaning  of  the  song,  which  Pistis  Sophia 
uttered,  come  forward  and  expound  it." 

And  Andrew  came  forward  and  said  :  "  My 
Master,  this  is  what  thy  light-power  prophesied 
of  old  concerning  thee  through  David,  saying  : 

"  '  With  tarrying  I  waited  for  the  lord,  and 
he  hath  inclined  his  ear  unto  me,  and  An^rew  -m. 
hath  heard  my  prayer.  He  hath  j£Xthf 
brought  my  soul  out  of  the  pit  of  Psalms- 
wretchedness,  and  from  the  mire  of  the  mud  ;  he 
hath  stablished  my  feet  on  a  rock,  and  hath 
directed  my  steps.  He  hath  put  in  my  mouth  a 
new  song  and  benediction  for  our  God.  Many 
shall  see  and  shall  fear,  and  shall  hope  in  the 
lord.' " 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Andrew  had  expounded 


166  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

the  meaning  [of  the  song]  of  Pistis  Sophia,  that 
the  first  mystery  said  unto  him  :  "  Well  said, 
Andrew,  thou  blessed  one." 

He  continued  again  in  his  conversation,  and 
said  unto  his  disciples  :  "  These  are  all  the  things 
which  befell  Pistis  Sophia.  (166)  It  came  to 
pass,  therefore,  when  I  had  brought  her  to  the 
region  which  is  below  the  thirteenth  seon,  that 
I  was  about  to  enter  into  the  light  and  cease 
to  busy  myself  concerning  her.  She  said  unto 
me  : 

"  '  0  light  of  lights,  thou  art  about  to  go 
The  con-  to  ^ne  light  and  to  cease  to  busy  thyself 
Sophia°and  concerning  me,  and  tyrant  Adamas 
the  light.      win  know  that   thou    hast    ceased  to 

busy  thyself  on  my  behalf ;  he  will  know  that  he 
who  should  preserve  me,  is  no  longer  [here], 
and  he  will  come  again  to  this  region,  he  and 
all  his  rulers  who  hate  me,  and  Arrogant  will  again 
give  power  unto  his  lion-faced  emanation  ;  they 
will  all  come  and  will  constrain  me  together  to 
take  away  all  the  light  which  is  in  me,  that  I 
may  become  powerless  and  again  without  light. 
Now,  therefore,  0  light  of  my  light,  take  from 
them  their  light,  that  they  may  no  longer  from 
this  hour  be  able  to  constrain  me.' 

"  It  came  to  pass,  when  I  had  heard  these 
words  which  Pistis  Sophia  spake  unto  me,  that 
I  answered  her,  and  said  :  '  My  father,  who  caused 


SECOND   BOOK.  167 

me  to  emanate  forth,   hath  not    yet  given   me 
commandment  to  take  their  light  from 

.  The  light 

them ;   but  I  will  seal  the  regions  of  promiseth 
Arrogant  and  of  all  his  rulers  who  hate   regions  of 
thee.     And  I  will  also  seal  the  regions 
of  Adamas  and  of  his  rulers,  so  that   none   of 
them    may  be   able  to    fight  against  thee  until 
their  time  is  fulfilled,  and  until  even  the  time 
hath  come  when  my  father  shall  give  me  com- 
mandment to  take  away  their  light.' 

"Then  I  further  said  unto  her:  (167) 
'  Hearken  that  I  may  tell  unto  thee  their  time, 
when  that  which  I  have  just  said  unto  thee 
shall  come  to  pass.  It  shall  come  to  pass  when 
three  times  shall  be  accomplished.' 

"  Pistis  Sophia  answered  and  said  unto  me  : 
*  0  light,  how  shall  I  know  that  three  times 
are  accomplished,  so  that  I  may  rejoice,  and  be 
in  gladness  in  that  my  time  shall  be  nigh  for 
thee  to  bring  me  into  my  region  ?  Moreover, 
I  shall  rejoice  when  thou  shalt  take  the  light- 
power  from  all  them  that  hated  me,  for  I  have 
trusted  in  thy  light/ 

"  And  I  answered  and  said  unto  her  :  '  When 
thou  shalt  see  the  gate  of  the  treasure   How 
of  the  great  light — it  openeth  in  the   j&aiiknow 
thirteenth  seon,   and  is   to  the  left—   thneo^her 
when  this  gate  shall  be  opened,  then   France 
;  will  the  three  times  be  accomplished.'   hath  come- 


168  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

"  Pistis  Sophia  continued  and  said  :  '  0  light, 
how  shall  I  know  in  this  region,  that  that  gate 
is  opened  ? ' 

"  And  I  answered  and  said  unto  her  :  '  When 
what  shall  that  gate  snaU  be  opened,  all  who  are 
STof0        in  the  aeons  will  know  thereof,  because 

pass  at  ' 

that  time.     0£  fae  great  light  which  will  stream 
into    all  their    regions.     Lo,  then,   I  have   set 
them  so,  that  none  shall  venture  any  ill  against 
thee,   until  the   three   times   are    accomplished. 
And  thou  shalt  have  the  power  of  going  into 
their  twelve  aeons,  whenever  thou  mayest  wish, 
(168)  and  also  of  returning  into  thy  [own]  region, 
which  is  below  the  thirteenth  aeon,  and  in  which 
thou   now   art ;    but   thou    shalt  not  have    the 
power  of  passing  through  the  gate  of  the  height, 
which  is  in  the  thirteenth  aeon,  to  come  into 
thy  region  whence  thou  didst  come  forth  [in  the 
beginning].     Moreover,    when    the  three   times 
shall  be    fulfilled,   Arrogant   and  all  his  rulers 
shall   constrain    thee,    to    take    away   the   light 
that   is  in   thee,    being    enraged   against   thee, 
thinking  that  it  is  thou  who  hast  kept  his  power 
in  chaos,  and  also  that  it  is  thou  who  didst  take 
away  the  light  which   was  in  it.     He  will  be 
enraged   against   thee   to   take   from    thee    thy 
light  and  cast  it  into  chaos,  and  give  it  to  his 
emanation,  in  order  that  it  may  have  the  power 
to  come  forth  from  chaos  and  go  into  its  own 


SECOND   BOOK.  169 

region.  And  Adamas  will  aid  it  in  this  ;  but 
I  will  take  away  all  the  light-powers  which  are 
in  him,  and  I  will  give  them  unto  thee  ;  and  I 
will  come  to  take  them  away.  Now,  therefore, 
when  they  shall  constrain  thee  at  that  time, 
sing  a  song  to  the  light ;  I  will  hasten  unto  thy 
help ;  I  will  quickly  come  unto  thee  from  the 
regions  below  thee  ;  I  will  come  to  this  region 
where  I  shall  have  left  thee,  and  which  is  below 
the  thirteenth  aeon,  until  I  shall  make  thee 
once  more  quickly  enter  into  thy  region,  whence 
thou  didst  come  forth.' 

(169)  "  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  Pistis 
Sophia  had  heard  these  words  which  I  spake, 
that  she  rejoiced  with  great  rejoicing.  And  so 
I  left  her  in  the  region  belowT  the  thirteenth 
seon  ;  I  passed  into  the  light,  and  ceased  to  busy 
myself  about  her." 

All  these  things,  therefore,  the  first  mystery 
spake  unto  his  disciples,  for  they  had  happened 
unto  Pistis  Sophia ;  he  was  seated  on  the  Mount 
of  Olives,  narrating  all  these  things  in  the  midst 
of  his  disciples.  He  continued,  therefore,  in  his 
conversation,  and  said  unto  them  :  "  It  came  to 
pass,  therefore,  after  all  these  things,  when  I 
was  in  the  world  of  men,  sitting  beside  the  way, 
that  is  to  say,  in  the  place  which  is    The  time 

,       ,-  for  the  final 

the  Mount  of  Olives,  before  they  had    deliverance 

r  of  Sophia  is 

sent  unto  me  my  [first]  vesture,  which    fulfilled. 


170  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

I  had  placed  in  the  four  and  twentieth  mystery 
of  the  interior,  which  is  the  first  of  the  exterior, 
that  is  to  say,  the  great  uncontainable,  from 
which  I  came  forth,  and  before  I  had  entered 
into  the  height,  to  receive  my  other  two  vestures, 
when  I  was  seated  near  you  in  this  place,  which 
is  the  Mount  of  Olives,  that  the  time  of  which  I 
had  spoken  unto  Pistis  Sophia — '  Adamas  with 
all  his  rulers  will  constrain  thee ' — was  fulfilled. 

"  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  this  time 
was  fulfilled,  that  I  was  in  the  world  of  men, 
(170)  sitting  near  you,  on  this  hill,  which  is  the 
Mount  of  Olives.  Adamas  looked  down  from 
the  height  of  the  twelve  aeons ;  he  saw  his 
daemonial  power,  which  was  in  chaos,  without 
any  light  at  all  in  it ;  for  I  had  taken  from  it 
its  light.  He  saw  that  it  was  dark,  and  had  not 
the  strength  to  come  to  its  own  region,  which 
Adamas        js  ^e  twelfth  seon.      [Then]  Adamas 

sendeth  *~  J 

forth  two      thought  again  on  Pistis  Sophia  :  he  be- 

emanations  °  °  l 

of  darkness   came  most  mightily  enraged  against  her, 

to  plague  m  o         ^  e  o  > 

Sophia.  thinking  that  it  was  she  who  had  kept 
his  power  in  chaos,  thinking  that  it  was  she 
who  had  taken  away  its  light ;  and  he  was 
exceedingly  wroth,  he  piled  rage  on  rage,  he 
sent  forth  from  himself  an  emanation  of  dark- 
ness, and  also  a  little  chaos  exceedingly  malig- 
nant, to  plague  Pistis  Sophia  therewith.  And 
he  created  a  region  of  darkness  in  his  region,  in 


SECOND   BOOK.  171 

order  to  constrain  Pistis  Sophia  therein.  He 
assembled  the  hosts  of  his  rulers  ;  they  pursued 
after  Pistis  Sophia  to  make  her  enter  into  the 
dark  chaos  which  [Adamas]  had  created,  and  to 
constrain  her  in  that  region,  in  order  that  the 
two  emanations  of  darkness,  which  Adamas  had 
created,  might  plague  her,  until  they  had 
taken  from  her  all  the  light  which  was  in  her, 
and  until  Adamas  should  take  the  light  from 
Pistis  Sophia,  and  give  it  unto  his  two  dark  and 
malignant  emanations,  that  they  might  carry  it 
into  the  great  lower  chaos  which  is  the  darkness, 
(171)  and  cast  it  into  his  power  which  is  there, 
thinking  that  so  it  might  come  into  its  own 
region,  for  it  was  [now]  exceedingly  dark,  be- 
cause I  had  taken  from  it  its  light. 

"  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  they  pur- 
sued after  her,  that  Pistis  Sophia  cried  aloud, 
she  sang  a  song  to  the  light,  for  I  had  said  unto 
her,  '  If  thou  art  constrained,  sing  unto  me  a 
song,  and  I  will  come  in  haste  to  aid  thee.'  It 
came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  they  constrained 
her — I  was  seated  near  you  in  this  place,  that 
is  to  say,  on  the  Mount  of  Olives — that  she 
sang  a  song  to  the  light,  saying  : 

"  *  0  light  of  lights,  I  have  trusted  in  thee, 
save    me    from    all    these    rulers   who   SoP.hia. 

again  smg- 

pursue  after  me,  and  preserve  me,  lest   ®th  *  song 
they  should  take  from  me  my  light,  as   li§ht- 


172  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

that  lion-faced  power  [once  did]  ;  for  thy  light 
is  no  longer  with  me,  nor  thy  light-stream  to 
preserve  me.  Nay,  Adam  as  is  enraged  against 
me,  saying,  "  'Tis  thou  who  hast  kept  my 
power  in  the  chaos."  Now,  therefore,  0  light 
of  lights,  if  I  have  done  so,  if  I  have  kept  it 
there,  if  I  have  done  the  least  violence  to  that 
power,  or  if  I  have  constrained  it  as  it  con- 
strained me,  let  all  these  rulers  which  pursue 
after  me,  take  away  my  light,  let  them  leave 
me  empty ;  let  Adamas  my  foe  pursue  after 
my  power,  let  him  seize  upon  it,  let  him  take 
from  me  my  light,  let  him  cast  it  into  his  dark 
power,  which  is  in  chaos,  let  him  put  my  power 
in  chaos.  (172)  Now,  therefore,  0  light,  raise 
thou  me  up  in  thy  [just]  wrath,  lift  up  thy 
power  above  mine  enemies,  who  have  raised 
themselves  up  against  me  unto  the  end.  Haste 
thee,  restore  me,  as  thou  saidst  unto  me,  "  I  will 
help  thee." ' " 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  the  first 
mystery  had  finished  speaking  these  words  unto 
his  disciples,  that  he  said  :  "  Let  him  who  hath 
understood  the  words  which  I  have  spoken, 
come  forward  and  expound  their  interpretation." 

And  James  came  forward,  and  said  :  "  Master, 
concerning  this  song  which  Pistis  Sophia  sang, 
thy  light-power  prophesied  of  old,  through 
David,  in  the  seventh  Psalm,  saying  : 


SECOND   BOOK.  173 

"  '  0  lord,  my  God,  in  thee  I  have  put  my 
trust ;  save  me  from  them  that  perse-   fames  in- 

'  r  terpreteth 

cute   me,    and    deliver   me,   lest   they   *he  s^g, 

J      from  Psalm 

should  tear  my  soul  in  pieces,  like  vii- 
lions  ;  for  there  is  no  saviour  and  no  deliverer. 
0  lord,  my  God,  if  I  have  done  any  such  thing, 
if  there  hath  been  any  malice  in  my  hands,  if  I 
have  exacted  retribution  from  them  that  have 
recompensed  me  with  evils ;  [then]  let  me  fall 
beneath  my  enemies,  and  be  empty ;  let  mine 
enemy  persecute  my  soul,  let  him  seize  it,  let 
him  trample  down  my  life  on  the  earth,  and  lay 
my  glory  in  the  dust.  (Diapsalma.)  Arise,  0 
lord,  in  thy  wrath ;  raise  up  thy  power  above 
my  enemies ;  arise  in  the  statute  which  thou 
hast  decreed.' " 

(173)  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  the 
first  mystery  had  heard  the  words  which  James 
had  spoken,  that  he  said  unto  him  :  "  Well  said, 
James,  thou  well-beloved." 

The  first  mystery  continued  again  in  his 
conversation,  and  said  unto  his  disciples  :  "It 
came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  Pistis  Sophia 
had  finished  uttering  the  words  of  her  song, 
that  she  turned  herself  round  to  see  whether 
Adamas  and  his  rulers  had  turned  themselves 
back  to  re-enter  their  aeon  ;  and  she  saw  them 
pursuing  after  her.  So  she  turned  unto  them 
and  said : 


174  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

"  '  Why  run  ye  after  me,   saying  that  I  have 
no   help    to    be  preserved   from   you  ? 

Sophia  ad-  r  ... 

dresseth       Now,  therefore,  my  judge  is  the  light, 
and  his        and  he  is  strong.     He  waiteth  patiently 

rulers. 

until  the  time  of  which  he  said  unto 
me,  "  I  will  come  to  thy  help."  Shall  he  not 
pour  out  his  wrath  upon  you  in  this  very  hour  ? 
Now  is  the  time  of  which  he  spake  unto  me. 
Now,  therefore,  if  ye  turn  not  back,  if  ye  cease 
not  to  pursue  after  me,  the  light  will  prepare 
his  power,  he  will  make  ready  with  all  his  powers, 
he  will  be  ready  in  his  power  to  take  from  you 
all  that  is  light  in  you,  and  ye  shall  be  dark. 
He  hath  created  his  powers  to  take  from  you 
your  power  which  is  in  you,  that  ye  may  perish.' 
"  When  Pistis  Sophia  had  said  these  words, 
she  turned  her  gaze  towards  the  region  of 
Adamas ;  she  saw  the  region  of  darkness  and  of 
chaos  which  he  had  created;  (174)  she  saw  also 
the  two  exceedingly  malignant  emanations  of 
darkness,  which  Adamas  had  sent  forth  to  seize 
upon  Pistis  Sophia  and  cast  her  into  the  chaos 
which  he  had  created,  to  constrain  her  in  that 
region  and  plague  her  until  they  had  taken  from 
her  her  light.  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when 
Pistis  Sophia  had  seen  these  two  emanations  of 
darkness  and  the  dark  region  which  Adamas 
had  created,  that  she  feared  exceedingly,  and 
cried  aloud  to  the  light,  saying  : 


SECOND   BOOK.  175 

" '  0  light,  Adam  as,  the  worker  of  in- 
justice, is  enraged  against  me ;  he  Sophia  yet 
hath  created  an  emanation  of  darkness,  *j>am  smg- 
and  he  hath  also  sent  forth  another  Llght- 
chaos ;  he  hath  created  another  region  of  dark- 
ness and  of  chaos,  and  hath  made  it  ready. 
Now,  therefore,  0  light,  in  the  [very]  chaos 
which  he  hath  created  in  order  to  cast  me  therein 
and  then  take  from  me  my  light,  take  from  him 
his  own  ;  and  for  the  plan  that  he  devised  to 
take  away  my  light,  his  own  shall  be  taken  from 
him  ;  and  for  the  injustice  of  which  he  spake,  to 
take  away  the  light-powers  which  are  in  me, 
all  of  his  shall  be  taken  from  him.' 

"  These  are  the  words  which  Pistis  Sophia 
uttered  in  her  song.  Now,  therefore,  let  him 
who  is  sober  in  mind  come  forward,  and  ex- 
pound the  interpretation  of  Pistis  Sophia  in  her 
song." 

And  Martha  came  forward  and  said  :  (175) 
"  I  am  sober  in  my  mind,  and  I  understand 
the  words  which  thou  hast  said.  Now,  there- 
fore, give  unto  me  commandment  to  expound 
their  interpretation  in  freedom." 

The  first  mystery  answered,  and  said  unto 
Martha  :  "I  give  unto  thee  commandment,  0 
Martha,  to  expound  the  interpretation  of  the 
words  which  Pistis  Sophia  uttered  in  her  song." 

And  Martha  answered  and  said  :  "  My  Master, 


176  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

these  are  the  words  which  thy  light-power  pro- 
phesied of  old  through  David,  in  the  seventh 
Psalm,  saying  : 

" '  G-od  is  a  righteous  judge,  strong  and 
Martha  in-    patient,   who    showeth    not   his  wrath 

th?words        eVer7    da7'        But    if    Ye    wil1    not    tum> 

of  Sophia      ke  q^w  WDet  his  sword,  he  shall  bend 

from  Psalm  ' 

vil-  his  bow  ;  he  hath  made  it  ready,  he 

hath  made  ready  therefor  instruments  of  death. 
He  hath  created  his  arrows  to  burn  them  up. 
Behold,  injustice  hath  been  in  labour,  she  hath 
conceived  pain,  she  hath  brought  forth  mischief. 
She  hath  digged  a  pit,  she  hath  digged  it  deep. 
She  shall  fall  into  the  pit  which  she  hath 
digged ;  her  pains  shall  fall  on  her  own  head, 
and  her  injustice  on  the  midst  thereof.' ' 

And  when  Martha  had  uttered  these  words, 
the  first  mystery  looking  without  said  unto 
her :  "  Well  said ;  it  is  well,  Martha,  thou 
blessed  one." 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  Jesus  had 
Jesus  finished  narrating  to  his  disciples  all 

SopMah  tne  tnmgs  which  had  befallen  Pistis 
Senth6  Sophia  when  she  was  in  chaos,  (176) 
8eon-  and  how  she  had  sung  a  song  to  the 

light  until  it  had  rescued  her,  and  brought  her 
forth  from  chaos,  and  led  her  into  the  twelve 
aeons,  and  also  how  she  had  been  preserved  from 
all  the  afflictions  with  which  the  rulers  of  chaos 


SECOND   BOOK.  177 

had  constrained  her,  because  she  had  sought  to 
go  to  the  light,  that  Jesus  continued  in  his 
conversation  and  said  unto  his  disciples  :  "It 
came  to  pass,  after  these  things,  that  I  took 
Pistis  Sophia,  and  led  her  into  the  thirteenth 
aeon,  shining  most  exceedingly,  there  being  no 
measure  to  the  light  which  was  in  me.  I  entered 
into  the  region  of  the  four  and  twentieth  in- 
visible, shining  most  exceedingly.  They  were 
distressed  with  great  perturbation  ;  they  looked 
and  saw  Sophia,  who  was  with  me.  Her  they 
recognised,  but  they  knew  not  who  I  was,  they 
thought  that  I  was  some  emanation  of  the  light- 
world. 

"It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  Pistis 
Sophia  saw  her  fellow  invisibles,  that  she  rejoiced 
with  great  joy,  and  was  exceedingly  glad.  She 
longed  to  tell  them  of  the  wonderful  things 
which  I  had  done  for  her  below  in  the  world  of 
men,  until  I  had  rescued  her ;  [and  so]  she  came 
forward  into  the  midst  of  the  invisibles,  and  in 
their  midst  she  sang  a  song  unto  me,  saying  : 

(177)  " '  I  will  confess  thee,  0  light,  for  thou  art 
a  saviour,  thou  art  a  deliverer  for  all    Sophia 
time.     I  will   utter  this   song  to  thy   ^wrt* 
light,  for  it  hath  rescued  me,  and  freed    ^er^Uow 
me  from  the  hand  of  the  rulers,  mine    mvlslbles- 
enemies.     Thou    hast   preserved  me   in   all  the 

regions,  thou  hast  preserved  me  in  the  heights 

12 


178  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

and  in  the  depths  of  chaos,  and  in  all  the  aeons 
of  the  rulers  of  the  sphere.  And  when  I  came 
forth  from  the  heights,  I  gazed  into  regions 
where  there  is  no  light  ;  nor  could  I  return  to 
the  thirteenth  aeon,  my  abode,  because  there 
was  no  light  in  me,  and  no  power,  for  my  power 
was  utterly  afflicted ;  but  the  light  hath  pre- 
served me  in  all  my  afflictions.  I  sang  a  song 
unto  the  light ;  it  heard  me  when  I  was  con- 
strained, it  guided  me  in  the  world  of  the  aeons, 
to  bring  me  into  the  thirteenth  aeon,  my  abode. 

" f  I  will  confess  thee,  0  light,  for  thou  hast 
preserved  me,  and  thy  wonderful  works  in  the 
race  of  men.  When  I  had  need  of  my  power, 
thou  didst  give  my  power  unto  me  ;  and  when  I 
had  need  of  my  light,  thou  didst  fill  me  with 
pure  light.  I  have  been  in  the  darkness  and 
the  shadow  of  chaos,  bound  in  the  hard  bonds 
of  chaos,  without  light  in  me,  for  I  had  pro- 
voked the  statute  of  light ;  I  had  transgressed,  I 
had  made  wroth  the  statute  of  light,  because  I 
had  come  forth  from  my  own  region.  (178) 
And  when  I  had  descended,  I  was  destitute  of 
my  light,  and  became  without  light,  and  there 
was  no  one  to  rescue  me.  And  when  they  con- 
strained me,  I  cried  out  unto  the  light,  and  it 
preserved  me  from  all  my  afflictions.  It  also 
broke  asunder  all  my  bonds,  and  brought  me 
forth  from  darkness  and  the  anguish  of  chaos. 


SECOND   BOOK.  179 

" '  I  will  confess  thee,  then,  0  light,  for  thou 
hast  preserved  me,  and  thy  wonders  have  been 
wrought  in  the  race  of  men  ;  thou  hast  shattered 
the  proud  gates  of  darkness  and  the  hard  bolts 
of  chaos,  and  thou  hast  turned  me  away  from 
the  region  where  I  had  transgressed,  and  when 
they  had  taken  my  light  away  from  me,  because 
I  had  transgressed  and  had  ceased  to  perform 
my  mystery.  I  have  come  forth  from  the  gates 
of  chaos,  and  when  I  was  constrained,  I  sang  a 
song  to  the  light.  It  hath  preserved  me  from 
all  my  afflictions.  Thou  hast  sent  unto  me  thy 
stream  ;  it  hath  given  me  power,  and  hath  saved 
me  from  all  my  anguish. 

" '  I  will  confess  thee,  0  light,  for  thou  hast 
preserved  me,  and  thy  wonders  have  been  done 
in  the  race  of  men.' 

"  This,  then,  is  the  song  which  Pistis  Sophia 
uttered,  in  the  midst  of  the  four  and  twenty 
invisibles,  desiring  to  tell  them  of  all  the 
wonderful  things  which  I  had  done  with  her, 
that  they  might  know  that  I  had  descended 
into  the  world  of  men,  and  had  given  unto  them 
the  mysteries  of  the  height.  Now,  therefore, 
let  him  who  is  exalted  in  his  understanding, 
come  forward,  and  expound  the  interpretation  of 
the  song  which  Pistis  Sophia  uttered." 

(179)  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  Jesus  had 
finished  speaking  these  words,  that  Philip  came 


180  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

forward  and  said  :  "  Jesus,  my  Master,  my  under- 
standing is  exalted,  and  I  have  understood  the 
interpretation  of  the  song  which  Pistis  Sophia 
uttered,  and  David,  the  prophet,  prophesied 
concerning  it  of  old,  in  the  one  hundred  and 
sixth  Psalm,  saying  : 

"  '  Confess  ye  the  lord,  for  he  is  gracious,  for 
Philip  in-     his  mercy  endureth  for  ever ;  let  them 

terpreteth  .       „  . 

the  song       speak   it  forth   whom    the    lord  hath 

from  Psalm  _       _        .      .      .  1        i       i 

cvi.  preserved,  tor  it  is  he  who  hath  pre- 

served them  from  the  hand  of  their  enemies. 
He  hath  gathered  them  together  into  their  own 
land,  from  the  east,  from  the  west,  from  the 
north,  and  from  the  sea.  They  wandered  in  the 
desert,  in  a  place  where  there  is  no  water ;  they 
found  not  the  way  to  the  city  where  was  their 
abode.  They  were  hungry  and  thirsty,  their 
soul  fainted  in  them ;  he  hath  saved  them 
from  their  constraints.  They  cried  unto  the 
lord,  and  he  hath  heard  them  in  their  danger. 
He  hath  led  them  into  a  straight  way  that  they 
might  come  to  the  place  of  their  abode. 

"  '  Let  them  confess  the  lord  in  his  mercies, 
and  his  wonders  among  the  children  of  men  ;  for 
he  satisfieth  the  hungry  soul ;  he  hath  filled 
the  hungry  soul  with  good  things.  They  who 
sat  in  darkness  and  the  shadow  of  death,  they 
who  were  bound  in  misery  and  chains,  (180) 
because   they   had    provoked    the   word    of  the 


SECOND   BOOK.  181 

lord,  and  had  made  wroth  the  counsel  of  the 
highest — their  heart  is  humbled  in  their  suffer- 
ing, they  have  become  powerless,  and  there  was 
no  one  to  help  them.  They  cried  unto  the 
lord  when  they  were  in  peril,  and  he  hath 
saved  them  out  of  their  constraints  ;  he  hath 
brought  them  forth  from  darkness  and  the 
shadow  of  death,  and  hath  broken  their  chains. 

"  '  Let  them  confess  the  lord  in  his  mercies 
and  his  wonders  among  the  children  of  men ; 
for  he  hath  broken  the  gates  of  brass,  he  hath 
smitten  the  bolts  of  iron  asunder.  He  hath 
received  them  unto  himself  in  the  way  of  their 
iniquity.  For  when  they  had  been  brought  low 
because  of  their  iniquities,  their  heart  abhorred 
all  nourishment,  they  were  near  to  the  gates  of 
death.  They  cried  unto  the  lord  in  their  peril, 
—he  preserved  them  from  their  afflictions. 

"'Let  them  confess  the  lord  in  his  mercies, 
and  his  wonders  among  the  children  of  men.' 

"  This,  then,  my  Master,  is  the  interpreta- 
tion of  the  song,  which  Pistis  Sophia  uttered. 
Hearken,  therefore,  Master,  that  I  may  expound 
it  clearly.  The  word,  verily,  which  David 
spake,  '  Confess  ye  the  lord,  for  he  is  gracious, 
for  his  mercy  endureth  for  ever ' ;  this  is  the 
word  which  Pistis  Sophia  spake,  '  1  will  confess 
thee,  0  light,  for  thou  art  a  saviour  and  a 
deliverer  for  all  time.' 


182  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

(181)  "And  the  word  which  David  spake, 
'  Let  them  whom  the  lord  hath  preserved  say, 
"  He  hath  preserved  us  from  the  hand  of  our 
enemies  "  ' ;  this  is  the  word  which  Pistis  Sophia 
spake,  '  I  will  utter  this  song  to  the  light,  for 
it  hath  preserved  me  and  freed  me  from  the 
hand  of  the  rulers,  mine  enemies.'  And  so  for 
the  rest  of  the  Psalm. 

"  This,  then,  my  Master,  is  the  interpretation 
of  the  song  which  Pistis  Sophia  uttered  in  the 
midst  of  the  four  and  twenty  invisibles,  desiring 
to  tell  them  of  all  the  wonders  which  thou  hadst 
done  for  her,  and  that  they  might  know  that 
thou  hast  given  thy  mysteries  to  the  race  of 
men." 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  Jesus  had 
heard  these  words  which  Philip  had  spoken, 
that  he  said :  "  Well  said,  Philip,  thou  blessed 
one ;  this  is  the  interpretation  of  the  song 
uttered  by  Pistis  Sophia." 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  after  these  things, 
Mary  ques-  that  Mary  came  forward ;  she  wor- 
Jesus.  shipped  the   feet   of  Jesus,    and  said 

unto  him :  "  Master,  be  not  wroth  with  me 
questioning  thee,  for  we  question  concerning 
everything  with  earnestness  and  confidence. 
For  thou  hast  said  unto  us  aforetime,  '  Seek 
that  ye  may  find,  knock  that  it  may  be  opened 
unto   you ;    for    every    one    that   seeketh    shall 


SECOND   BOOK.  183 

find,  and  to  whomsoever  knocketh,  it  shall  be 
opened.'  Now,  therefore,  0  Master,  from  whom 
shall  we  seek,  or  at  whose  door  shall  we  knock  ? 
Who  hath  the  power  to  give  out  the  revelation 
of  the  words  on  which  we  question  thee  ?  (182) 
Who  knoweth  the  power  of  the  words  concern- 
ing which  we  make  the  questioning  ?  For  'tis 
thou  who  has  given  us  in  our  minds  a  mind 
of  light ;  thou  hast  given  unto  us  the  highest 
perception  and  conception.  Therefore,  is  there 
no  one  in  the  world  of  men,  there  is  no  one  in 
the  height  of  the  aeons,  who  can  give  out  the 
revelation  of  the  words  on  which  we  make  our 
questionings,  save  thee  alone,  who  knowest  all, 
who  art  perfect  in  all ;  for  I  put  not  my  ques- 
tions like  the  men  of  the  world,  but  we  seek  in 
the  science  of  the  height,  which  thou  hast  given 
unto  us  ;  and  we  frame  our  questions  on  the 
type  of  the  excellent  questioning  which  thou 
hast  taught  us,  that  we  might  frame  our  ques- 
tions thereon.  Now,  therefore,  Master,  be  not 
wroth  with  me,  but  reveal  unto  me  the  matter 
on  which  I  question  thee." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  heard  the 
words  which  Mary  Magdalene  had  spoken,  that 
he  answered  and  said  unto  her  :  "  Ask  what  thou 
wilt,  and  I  will  reveal  it  unto  thee  with  earnest- 
ness and  confidence.  Amen,  amen,  I  say  unto 
you,    rejoice    with   great    rejoicing,    and    be    in 


184  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

exceeding  great  gladness,  questioning  me  con- 
cerning everything  with  diligence  ;  and  I  shall 
be  in  exceeding  great  gladness,  because  ye  ques- 
tion me  on  every  matter  with  earnestness,  and 
that  ye  question  in  the  manner  in  which  ye 
ought  to  question.  Now,  therefore,  ask  what 
thou  wilt,  and   I   will  reveal  it  unto  thee  with 

joy." 

(183)  It  came  to  pass,  when  Mary  had  heard 
the  words  which  the  saviour  spake,  that  she 
rejoiced  with  great  joy,  and  was  in  exceeding 
great  gladness ;  she  said  unto  Jesus :  "  My 
Master  and  saviour,  how,  then,  are  the  four 
and  twenty  invisibles  ;  of  what  type,  of  what 
quality  ;  or  of  what  quality  is  their  light  ? ,! 

And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  Mary : 
Of  the  four   "  What  is  there  in  this  world  which  is 

and  twenty 

invisibles,  comparable  to  them  ;  or  what  region 
in  this  world  is  like  unto  them  ?  Now,  there- 
fore, to  what  shall  I  liken  them ;  or  what  shall 
I  say  concerning  them  ?  for  there  is  nothing  in 
this  world  with  which  I  can  compare  them  ;  nor 
is  there  a  single  form  to  which  I  can  liken  them. 
Indeed,  there  is  nothing  in  this  world  which  is 
of  the  quality  of  heaven.  Amen,  I  say  unto 
you,  every  one  of  the  invisibles  is  nine  times 
greater  than  the  heaven  and  the  sphere  above  it, 
and  the  twelve  seons  all  together,  as  I  have 
already  told  you  od  another  occasion.     [Again] 


SECOND    BOOK.  185 

there  is  no  light  in  this  world  which  is  superior 
to  that  of  the  sun.  Amen,  amen,  I  say  unto 
you,  the  four  and  twenty  invisibles  are  more 
radiant  than  the  light  of  the  sun  which  is  in 
this  world,  ten  thousand  times,  (184)  as  I  have 
told  you  before  on  another  occasion  ;  for  the 
light  of  the  sun  in  its  true  form  is  not  of  this 
world,  since  its  light  has  to  pierce  through  a 
host  of  veils  of  [various]  regions.  But  the  light 
of  the  sun  in  its  true  form,  which  is  in  the 
region  of  the  virgin  of  light,  is  more  radiant 
than  the  four  and  twenty  invisibles,  and  the 
great  invisible  forefather,  and  also  the  great 
triple-powered  god,  ten  thousand  times  more 
radiant,  as  I  have  already  told  you  on  another 
occasion. 

"  Now,  therefore,  0  Mary,  there  is  no  form 
in  this  wTorld,  nor  any  light,  nor  any  shape,  like 
unto  the  four  and  twenty  invisibles,  and  with 
which  I  could  compare  them.  Yet  a  little 
while  and  I  will  bring  thee  and  thy  fellow  dis- 
ciples, thy  brethren,  into  the  three  spaces  of 
the  first  mystery,  but  only  as  far  as  the  space 
of  the  ineffable,  and  ye  shall  see  all  their  con- 
figurations as  they  really  are  and  without  simili- 
tude. 

"  And  when  I  bring  you  into  the  height,  you 
shall  see  the  glory  of  them  in  the  height ;  and 
ye  shall  be  in  most  mighty  wonderment. 


186  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

"  And  when  I  bring  you  into  the  regions  of 
Of  the  glory  the  rulers  of  the  fate,  ye  shall  see  the 
of  the  fate.  g\0Ty  [n  which  they  are,  and  compared 
with  their  greatly  superior  glory,  ye  will  regard 
this  world  as  the  darkness  of  darkness;  (185) 
and  when  ye  gaze  down  on  the  whole  world  of 
men,  it  will  be  as  a  speck  of  dust  for  you, 
because  of  the  enormous  distance  by  which  [the 
fate-sphere]  will  be  distant  from  it,  and  because 
of  the  enormous  superiority  of  its  quality  over 
it. 

"  And  when  I  shall  have  brought  you  into 
Of  the  the  twelve  aeons,  ye  shall  see  the  glory 

seons.  in  which  they  are  ;  and  compared  with 

their  greatly  superior  glory,  the  region  of  the 
rulers  of  the  fate  will  appear  to  you  as  the 
darkness  of  darkness,  and  will  become  as  a  speck 
of  dust  for  you,  because  of  the  enormous  dis- 
tance it  will  be  distant  from  you,  and  because 
of  the  enormous  superiority  of  the  quality  of 
the  seons  over  it,  as  I  have  already  said  unto 
you  on  another  occasion. 

"  And,  again,  when  I  shall  have  brought  you 
Ofthethir-   m^°   the    thirteenth    aeon,    there  shall 

teenth^on.     ye     gee     |££     g|J~     JJJ     which     ^     in_ 

habitants]  are ;  the  twelve  seons  shall  appear  to 
you  like  the  darkness  of  darkness,  and  ye  shall 
gaze  down  upon  the  twelve  aeons,  and  they  will 
seem  to  you  like  a  speck  of  dust  because  of  the 


SECOND   BOOK.  187 

enormous  distance  they  will  be  separated  from 
you,  because  of  the  enormous  superiority  of 
its  quality  over  them 

"  And  when  I  shall  have  brought  you  to  the 
region  of  them  of  the  midst,  ye  shall  0fthe 
see  the  glory  in  which  they  are  ;  the  mldst* 
thirteen  aeons  shall  seem  to  you  like  the  dark- 
ness of  darkness,  and  ye  shall  moreover  look 
down  on  the  twelve  aeons;  and  all  the  fate,  (186) 
and  all  the  ordering,  and  all  the  spheres,  and  all 
the  others  which  are  in  them  all,  shall  be  for 
you  as  a  speck  of  dust,  because  of  the  enormous 
distance  they  will  be  distant,  and  because  of  the 
enormous  superiority  of  its  quality. 

"  And  when  I  shall  have  brought  you  into 
the  region  of  them  of  the  right,  ye  ofthe 
shall  see  the  glory  in  which  they  are ;  nght' 
the  region  of  them  of  the  midst  shall  seem  to 
you  like  the  night  in  this  world  of  men ;  and 
when  ye  look  down  on  the  midst,  it  will  seem 
to  you  like  a  speck  of  dust  because  of  the 
enormous  distance  which  the  region  of  them  of 
the  right  is  distant  from  it. 

"  And  when  I  shall  have  brought  you  to  the 
light-world,   which  is  the   treasure  of  ofthe 
light,  ye  shall  see  the  glory  of  them   treasure- 
that   dwell   there ;    the    region    of  them  of  the 
right  shall  seem  to  you  like  the  mid-day  light  in 
the  world  of  men,  when  there  is  no  sun  ;  and 


188  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

when  ye  look  down  on  the  region  of  them  of  the 
right,  it  shall  seem  to  you  like  a  speck  of  dust 
because  of  the  enormous  distance  it  is  distant 
from  the  treasure  of  light. 

"  And  when  I  shall  have  brought  you  into 
Of  the  in-  tne  regi°n  of  them  that  have  received 
hentance.  ^e  inneritance,  of  them  that  have  re- 
ceived the  mysteries  of  light,  ye  shall  see  the 
glory  of  the  light  in  which  they  are  ;  the  light- 
world  shall  seem  to  you  like  the  light  of  the 
sun  which  is  in  the  world  of  men;  (187)  and 
when  ye  look  down  on  the  light-world,  it  will 
seem  to  you  like  a  speck  of  dust  because  of  the 
enormous  distance  the  light-world  is  distant, 
and  because  of  the  magnitude  with  which  it 
transcends  it." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  finished 
speaking  these  things  unto  his  disciples,  that  Mary 
Magdalene  came  forward,  and  said  :  "  0  Master, 
be  not  wroth  with  me  if  I  question  thee,  for  we 
question  concerning  every  matter  with  earnest- 
ness." 

And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
"  Ask  what  thou  wilt,  and  I  will  reveal  it  to 
thee  freely,  without  parable ;  and  everything 
which  thou  askest,  I  will  tell  unto  thee  with 
earnestness  and  certainty.  I  will  perfect  you 
in  every  power  and  every  perfection,  from  the 
interior  of  the  interiors,   to  the  exterior  of  the 


SECOND   BOOK.  189 

exteriors,  from  that  ineffable  to  the  darkness  of 
darkness,  that  ye  may  be  called  perfections 
perfected  in  every  wisdom.  Now,  therefore, 
Mary,  ask  what  thou  wilt,  and  I  will  reveal  it 
to  thee  with  great  joy  and  great  gladness." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Mary  had  heard  these 
words  which  the  saviour  had  said,  that   Mary  again 

.    .  , .  -.  ,      questioneth 

she  rejoiced  exceedingly  and  was  glad,  Jesus. 
and  said  :  "  Master,  will  the  men  of  this  world, 
who  have  received  the  mysteries  of  light,  (188) 
be  higher  than  the  emanations  of  the  treasure 
in  thy  kingdom  ?  For  I  have  heard  thee  say, 
'  When  I  shall  have  brought  you  to  the  region 
for  receiving  the  mysteries,  the  region  of  the 
light- world  will  seem  to  you  like  a  speck  of  dust, 
because  of  the  great  distance  that  it  will  be 
[from  you],  and  because  of  the  great  light  which 
is  in  it' — [far  greater  than  that  of]  the  world 
of  the  treasure  of  light,  the  region  in  which 
are  the  emanations.  Will,  then,  my  Master, 
the  men  who  shall  have  received  the  mysteries, 
be  higher  than  the  light-world,  and  will  they 
be  any  higher  than  them  in  the  kingdom  of 
light  ? " 

Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  :  "  Ex- 
cellently, indeed,  dost  thou  question  concerning 
every  matter  with  earnestness  and  confidence. 
But  hearken,  0  Mary,  that  I  may  explain  unto 
thee  the  completion  of  the  aeon  and  the  ascension 


190  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

of  the  pleroma.  There  would  be  no  place  for 
this,  had  I  not  said  unto  you,  '  When  I  shall 
have  brought  you  into  the  region  of  the  in- 
heritances of  those  who  shall  have  received  the 
mystery  of  the  light  of  the  treasure  of  light, 
(189)  the  region  of  the  emanations  shall  seem 
to  you  like  a  speck  of  dust,  and  like  the  simple 
light  of  the  day  sun.' 

"  It  hath  been  said,  *  These  things  shall  come 

to  pass  at  the  time  of  the  completion 

twelve  0f  the  seon  and  of  the  ascension  of  the 

saviours 

and  their      pleroma.'     The  twelve  saviours  of  the 

regions  in 

the  inherit-   treasure,  and  the  twelve  orders  of  each 

ance. 

of  them,  which  are  the  emanations  of 
the  seven  voices  and  of  the  five  trees,  shall  be 
with  me  in  the  region  of  the  inheritance  of  light ; 
they  shall  be  kings  with  me  in  my  kingdom, 
each  being  king  over  his  emanations,  and  each 
being  king  according  to  his  glory,  the  great 
according  to  his  greatness,  and  the  little  accord- 
ing to  his  littleness. 

"  And  the  saviour  of  the  emanations  of  the 
first  voice  shall  be  in  the  region  of  the  souls 
which  shall  have  received  the  first  mystery  of 
the  first  mystery  in  my  kingdom. 

"  And  the  saviour  of  the  emanations  of  the 
second  voice  shall  be  in  the  region  of  the  souls 
which  shall  have  received  the  second  mystery 
of  the  first  mystery. 


SECOND   BOOK.  191 

"  In  like  manner,  the  saviour  of  the  emana- 
tions of  the  third  voice  shall  be  in  the  region 
of  the  souls  of  them  who  shall  have  received 
the  third  mystery  of  the  first  mystery  (190) 
in  the  inheritance  of  light. 

"And  the  saviour  of  the  emanations  of  the 
fourth  voice  of  the  treasure  of  light  shall  be  in 
the  region  of  the  souls  which  shall  have  received 
the  fourth  mystery  of  the  first  mystery  in  the 
inheritance  of  the  light. 

"  And  the  fifth  saviour  of  the  fifth  voice  of 
the  treasure  of  light  shall  be  in  the  region  of  the 
souls  who  shall  have  received  the  fifth  mystery 
of  the  first  mystery  in  the  inheritance  of  the  light. 

"  And  the  sixth  saviour  of  the  emanations  of 
the  sixth  voice  of  the  treasure  of  light  shall  be 
in  the  region  of  the  souls  which  shall  have  re- 
ceived the  sixth  mystery  of  the  first  mystery. 

"  And  the  seventh  saviour  of  the  emanations 
of  the  seventh  voice  of  the  treasure  of  light 
shall  be  in  the  region  of  the  souls  which  shall 
have  received  the  seventh  mystery  of  the  first 
mystery  in  the  treasure  of  light. 

"  And  the  eighth  saviour,  that  is  to  say  the 
saviour  of  the  emanations  of  the  first  tree  of  the 
treasure  of  light,  shall  be  in  the  region  of  the 
souls  which  shall  have  received  the  eighth  mys- 
tery of  the  first  mystery  (191)  in  the  inheritance 
of  light. 


192  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

"  And  the  ninth  saviour,  who  is  the  saviour  of 
the  emanations  of  the  second  tree  of  the  treasure 
of  light,  shall  be  in  the  region  of  the  souls  which 
shall  have  received  the  ninth  mystery  of  the 
first  mystery  in  the  inheritance  of  light. 

"  And  the  tenth  saviour,  who  is  the  saviour 
of  the  emanations  of  the  third  tree  of  the 
treasure  of  light,  shall  be  in  the  region  of  the 
souls  which  shall  have  received  the  tenth  mys- 
tery of  the  first  mystery  in  the  inheritance  of 
light. 

"  In  the  same  manner,  again,  the  eleventh 
saviour,  who  is  the  saviour  of  the  fourth  tree  of 
the  treasure  of  light,  shall  be  in  the  region  of 
the  souls  which  shall  have  received  the  eleventh 
mystery  of  the  first  mystery  in  the  inheritance 
of  light. 

"  And  the  twelfth  saviour,  who  is  the  saviour 
of  the  emanations  of  the  fifth  tree  of  the  trea- 
sure of  light,  shall  be  in  the  region  of  the  souls 
of  them  that  shall  have  received  the  twelfth 
mystery  of  the  first  mystery  in  the  inheritance 
of  light. 

(192)   "And   the  seven   amens,  and   the  five 

Wttfi*  ..-•._■  -  1111 

Of  the  as-  voices,  and  the  three  amens,  shall  be 
themTf  the  on  mJ  right,  being  kings  in  the  inherit- 
toTheTn-11"  ance  of  liglit.  And  the  saviour  of 
heritage,  ^e  twins,  that  is  to  say,  the  child  of 
the  child,  and  the  nine  guardians  shall  remain 


SECOND    BOOK.  193 

also  at  my  left,  being  kings  in  the  inheritance  of 
light. 

"  And  each  of  the  saviours  shall  be  king  over 
the  orders    of  his  emanations  in  the   of  their  re- 
inheritances  of  light,  in  the  manner  in   ranks  in 
which  they  are  also  in  the  treasure  of  dom. " 
light. 

"And  the  nine  guardians  of  the  treasure  of 
light  shall  be  higher  than  the  saviours  in  the  in- 
heritance of  light.  And  the  twin  saviours  shall 
be  higher  than  the  nine  guardians  in  the  kingdom 
[of  light].  And  the  three  amens  shall  be  higher 
than  the  twin  saviours  in  the  kingdom  [of  light]. 
And  the  five  trees  shall  be  higher  than  the  three 
amens  in  the  inheritance  of  light. 

"And  Ieou,  with  the  guardian  of  the  veil  of 
the  great  light,   and   the   receivers  of 
light,  and  the  two  great  leaders,  and   powers  of 

&  r  the  right, 

the  great  Sabaoth,  the  good,  [all]  shall   and  their 

P  emanation 

be  kings  in  the  first  saviour  of  the  first   and  ascen- 

t>  r    t    i  /  \     sion. 

voice  of  the  treasure  ot  light,  (193) 
who  shall  be  in  the  region  of  them  that  shall 
have  received  the  first  mystery  of  the  first  mys- 
tery ;  for  Ieou,  and  the  guardian  of  the  region 
of  them  that  are  to  the  right,  and  Melchisedec, 
the  great  receiver  of  light,  and  the  two  great 
leaders  emanated  from  the  select  and  ever  ex- 
ceedingly pure  light  of  the  first  tree  up  to  the 

fifth. 

13 


194  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

"  Ieou  is  the  overseer  of  the  light,  who 
emanated  from  the  beginning  from  the  pure 
light  of  the  first  tree  ;  the  guardian  also  of  them 
that  are  on  the  right  emanated  from  the  second 
tree ;  the  two  leaders  emanated  also  from  the 
pure  and  select  light  of  the  third  and  fourth 
trees  in  the  treasure  of  light ;  Melchisedec  also 
emanated  from  the  fifth  tree ;  Sabaoth,  the 
good,  also,  whom  I  have  called  my  father, 
emanated  from  Ieou,  the  overseer  of  the  light. 

"  These  six,  then,  by  the  command  of  that 
first  mystery,  the  last  of  the  supporters  made  to 
dwell  in  the  region  of  those  of  the  right,  ac- 
cording to  the  regulation  of  the  assembly  in  the 
light  which  is  above  the  aeons  of  the  rulers,  in 
the  worlds  and  in  every  race  which  they  include, 
of  each  of  which  I  will  tell  you  the  mystery 
[lit.,  thing]  which  hath  been  placed  above  his 
head,  in  the  emanation  of  the  pleroma.  Be- 
cause, therefore,  of  the  sublimity  of  the  mys- 
tery which  hath  been  placed  in  each,  (194) 
they  shall  be  fellow  kings  in  the  first  mystery 
of  the  first  voice  of  the  treasure  of  light,  which 
shall  be  in  the  region  of  the  souls  which  shall  have 
received  the  first  mystery  of  the  first  mystery. 

"  And  the  virgin  of  light,  and  also  the  great 
Of  the  leader  of  the  midst,  whom  the  rulers 

the  midst      of  the  aeons  have  named  the  great  Iao, 
ascension,     after  the  name  of  the  great  ruler  who 


SECOND   BOOK.  195 

is  in  their  region — he  and  the  virgin  of  light 
and  the  twelve  ministers  from  whom  ye  received 
your  form,  and  from  whom  ye  received  your  power, 
shall  all  also  be  kings  with  the  first  saviour  of 
the  first  voice  in  the  region  of  souls  which  shall 
have  received  the  first  mystery  of  the  first  mys- 
tery in  the  inheritance  of  light. 

"And  the  fifteen  supporters  of  the  seven 
virgins  of  light,  who  are  in  the  midst,  shall 
ascend  from  the  [present]  regions  of  the  twelve 
saviours,  with  the  rest  of  the  angels,  each  ac- 
cording to  his  glory,  that  they  may  be  kings 
with  me  in  the  inheritance  of  light.  And  I 
shall  be  king  over  them  all  in  the  inheritances 
of  light. 

"  All  this,  however,  which  I  have  narrated 
unto  you,  shall  not  be  at   this  time,    But  this 

J  '     shall  not 

but  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  the  com-    take  place 

9  till  the  end 

pletion  of  the  aeons,  which  is  the  as-  °f  the  aeon, 
cension  of  the  pleroma ;  this  is  the  complete 
ascension  of  the  number  of  perfect  souls  of  the 
inheritances  of  light. 

(195)  "Before  the  completion  of  the  aeons, 
therefore,  that  which  I  have  narrated  unto  you 
shall  not  take  place,  but  each  shall  be  in  his  own 
region  where  he  hath  been  set  since  the  be- 
ginning, until  the  number  of  the  assembly  of 
perfect  souls  shall  be  accomplished. 

"  The  seven  voices,  the  five  trees,  the  three 


196  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

amens,  the  twin  saviours,  the  nine  guardians, 
the  twelve  saviours,  they  of  the  regions  of  the 
right,  and  they  of  the  regions  of  the  left,  each 
shall  dwell  in  the  region  in  which  he  shall  have 
been  placed,  until  all  have  arrived  to  make  the 
perfect  number  of  souls  of  the  inheritance  of 
light. 

"  And  all  the  rulers  who  shall  have  repented 
shall  moreover  dwell  in  the  region  where  they 
have  been  set,  until  all  have  arrived  to  make  up 
the  number  of  souls  of  the  light. 

"  They  will  all  come,  each  in  his  proper  time, 
Of  the  as-  when  he  shall  receive  the  mystery. 
theSsouis°of  And  all  will  be  carried  through  the 
the  perfect.   ruiers    ^q  sh.all   have  repented,  and 

they  will  come  to  the  region  of  those  of  the 
midst ;  and  they  of  the  midst  will  baptise  them, 
and  will  give  unto  them  the  spiritual  unction ; 
they  will  seal  them  with  the  seals  of  their 
mysteries.  And  they  shall  be  carried  through 
those  of  all  the  regions  of  the  midst,  and  they 
shall  be  carried  through  the  regions  of  them  of 
the  right,  and  the  region  of  the  nine  guardians, 
and  the  region  of  the  twin  saviours,  and  the 
region  of  the  three  amens,  and  of  the  twelve 
saviours,  (196)  and  the  region  of  the  five  trees 
and  of  the  seven  voices.  Each  will  give  them 
the  seal  of  its  mystery,  and  they  shall  enter  into 
all  to  come  to  the  regions  of  the  inheritance  of 


SECOND   BOOK.  197 

light,  that  each  may  dwell  in  the  region  of 
which  he  shall  have  received  the  mystery  in  the 
inheritances  of  light. 

"In  a  word,  all   the   souls  of  men  who  shall 
have    received   the    mystery    of  light   0f  the  rank 
shall  take  precedence  of  all  the  rulers   J^8^ 
who  shall    have    repented,    shall   take   fect' 
precedence  of  all  them  of  the  region  of  those  of 
the  midst,  and  of  all  the  region  of  them  that  are 
on  the  right ;  they  shall  take  precedence  of  all 
the  region  of  the  treasure  of  light.     In  a  word, 
they  shall  take  precedence  of  all  those  of  [that] 
region,   and   they   shall    take    precedence   of  all 
them  of  the  regions  of  the  first  statute.     They 
shall  all  come  in  ;  they  shall  pass  into  the  in- 
heritance of  light  into  the  region  of  their  mys- 
tery, that  each  may  dwell  in  the  region  of  which 
he   shall   have   received   the   mystery.     And  so 
also  they  of  the  region  of  the  midst,  and  they  of 
the  right,  and  they  of  the  whole  region  of  the 
treasure,  each  in  the  region  of  the  order  in  which 
he  hath  been  set  from  the  beginning,  until  the 
pleroma  should   ascend ;    each    of  them   accom- 
plishing the  regulation  in  which  he  hath  been 
set,  because  of  the  assembly  of  the  souls  which 
have    received    the    mystery,    because    of    this 
regulation,    (197)    that    their    seal    should    be 
odven    to    all    the    souls    which    shall    have    re- 
ceived    the    mystery,    and    shall    have    passed 


198  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

through  their  interior  towards  the  inheritance 
of  light. 

"  Now,  therefore,  0  Mary,  this  is  the  matter 
on  which  thou  didst  question  me  with  earnest- 
ness and  confidence.  Now,  then,  moreover,  he 
that  hath  ears  to  hear,  let  him  hear." 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  Jesus  had 
finished  speaking  these  words,  that  Mary  Mag- 
dalene came  forward  and  said  : 

"  Master,  my  indweller  of  light  hath  ears,  and 
Mary  inter-    j  comprehend  every  word  which  thou 

preteth  the  L  J 

narrative      speakest.     Now,   therefore,   0  Master, 

from  the  i 

scriptures.  concerning  the  word  which  thou  hast 
spoken,  to  wit,  '  All  the  souls  of  human  kind 
which  shall  receive  the  mysteries  of  light,  shall, 
in  the  inheritances  of  light,  take  precedence  of 
all  the  rulers  who  shall  repent,  and  all  them  of 
the  region  of  those  who  are  on  the  right,  and 
the  whole  region  of  the  treasure  of  light ' ;  con- 
cerning this  word,  my  Master,  thou  hast  said 
unto  us  aforetime,  '  The  first  shall  be  last  and 
the  last  shall  be  first,'  that  is,  the  '  last '  are 
the  whole  race  of  men  who  shall  be  first  in  the 
light-kingdom  ;  so  also  they  that  are  in  the 
region  of  the  height  are  the  'first.'  For  this 
cause,  therefore,  0  Master,  didst  thou  say  unto 
us,  '  He  that  hath  ears  to  hear,  let  him  hear,' 
that  is  to  say,  (198)  that  thou  wouldst  know 
whether  we  comprehended  all  the  words  which 


SECOND   BOOK.  199 

thou    hast   spoken    unto    us.       Thus,    then,    0 
Master,  stands  the  matter." 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  Mary  had 
finished  saying  these  words,  that  the  saviour 
was  greatly  astonished  at  the  exposition  of  the 
words  which  she  had  given,  for  she  had  become 
pure  spirit  entirely.  And  Jesus  answered  again 
and  said  unto  her :  "  Well  said,  0  spiritual 
and  pure  Mary  ;  this  is  the  interpretation  of 
the  word." 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  after  all  these 
things,  that  Jesus  continued  in  his  conversation, 
and  said  unto  his  disciples  :  "  Hearken,  while  I 
speak  unto  you  concerning  the  glory  of  them 
that  are  in  the  height,  how  they  are,  just  as  I 
have  spoken  to  you  concerning  them  up  to  this 
day. 

"  Now,  therefore,  when  I  shall  have  brought 
you  to  the  region  of  the  last  supporter,  0f  the  last 
who  encircles  the  treasure  of  light,  suPPorter- 
when  I  shall  have  brought  you  to  the  region  of 
this  last  supporter,  in  order  that  ye  may  see 
the  glory  in  which  he  is,  the  region  of  the  in- 
heritance of  light  will  seem  to  you  simply  like  a 
city  of  this  world,  because  of  the  magnitude  of 
the  last  supporter,  and  because  of  the  mighty 
light  in  which  he  is. 

"  Hereafter  I  will  speak  unto  you  further 
concerning  the   glory  of  the  supporter  who  is 


200  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

above  the  little  supporter ;  but  I  will  not  tell 
That  the  vou  °f  ^ne  region  of  them  that  are 
yondnthe"  above  a11  tne  supporters ;  (199)  for 
i^mde*erS  there  is  no  kind  of  language  for  them 
scnbabie.      m  ^-g   wQr}^   nor  any   similitude  in 

this  world  like  unto  them,  to  compare  them 
therewith ;  there  is  neither  quality  nor  light 
which  resembleth  them,  not  only  in  this  world, 
but  also  no  comparison  in  those  of  the  height  of 
righteousness  from  their  lowest  region  upwards. 
For  this  cause,  therefore,  it  is  not  possible  to 
describe  them  in  this  world,  because  of  the 
stupendous  glory  of  them  of  the  height,  and 
because  of  their  transcendently  immeasurable 
quality.  Therefore,  indeed,  there  is  no  possi- 
bility of  speaking  of  them  in  this  world." 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  Jesus  had 
finished  speaking  these  words  unto  his  disciples, 
that  Mary  Magdalene  came  forward,  and  said 
unto  Jesus  :  "  Master,  be  not  wroth  with  me  if 
I  question  thee,  for  I  importune  thee  many  a 
time  and  oft.  Now,  therefore,  0  Master,  be  not- 
wroth  with  me  if  I  question  thee  on  every 
matter  with  earnestness  and  confidence ;  for  my 
brethren  will  preach  it  unto  the  race  of  human 
kind,  that  they  may  hear  and  repent,  (200)  and 
be  saved  from  the  harsh  judgments  of  the  evil 
rulers,  that  they  may  enter  into  the  height  and 
inherit  the  kingdom  of  light ;  for,  0  my  Master, 


SECOND   BOOK.  201 

not  only  are  we  compassionate  among  ourselves, 
but  we  are  also  merciful  minded  to  the  whole 
race  of  human  kind,  that  they  may  be  saved 
from  these  harsh  judgments.     Now,   therefore, 

0  Master,  this  is  why  we  question  on  every 
matter  with  earnestness  and  confidence,  that  my 
brethren  may  tell  it  forth  to  the  whole  human 
race,  that  they  may  not  fall  into  the  hands  of 
the  malignant  rulers  of  the  outer  darkness." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  heard  the 
word  which  Mary  spake,  that  the  saviour 
answered  with  great  compassion  for  her,  and 
said  unto  her :  "  Ask  what  thou  wilt,  and  I 
will  reveal  it  unto  thee  with  earnestness  and 
certainty,  and  without  parable." 

It  came  to  pass,   therefore,   when  Mary  had 
heard  these  words   which  the  saviour   Mary  fur- 
spake,  that  she  rejoiced  with  great  re-    j^efoes" 
joicing,  and  was  in  exceeding  gladness  ;   Jesus- 
she  said  unto  Jesus  :   "  Master,    by  how  much, 
then,  is  the  second  supporter  greater  than  the 
first  supporter  ?     By  what  distance  is  the  former 
separated    from    the    latter  ?       Or,    again,   how 
many  times  is  the  former  more  radiant  than  the 
latter  ? " 

Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  in  the 
midst  of  the  disciples  :  "  Amen,  amen, 

i  i  .       Of  the 

1  say  unto  you,  the  second  supporter  is  second  sup. 
removed  from  the  first  supporter  by  an 


202  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

immeasurable  distance,  both  with  regard  to 
height  above  and  depth  below,  with  regard  to 
length  and  breadth ;  for  he  is  enormously  re- 
moved by  a  mighty  distance  which  is  not  to  be 
measured  either  by  angels,  or  archangels,  or 
gods,  or  invisibles.  (201)  And  the  former  is 
greater  than  the  latter  most  exceedingly,  by  a 
measure  which  is  not  to  be  reckoned  either  by 
angels,  or  archangels,  or  gods,  or  invisibles.  And 
the  former  is  more  radiant  than  the  latter  by  a 
measure  utterly  impossible  to  compute ;  for 
there  is  no  means  of  measuring  the  light  which 
is  in  him,  no  possibility  of  computing  it  either 
by  angels,  or  archangels,  or  gods,  or  invisibles,  as 
I  have  already  said  unto  you  on  another  occasion. 
"  In  like  manner,  the  third  supporter  and  the 
Of  the  third,  fourth  and  the  fifth  are  greater  the 
fift^sup-11  one  than  the  other  an  infinite  number 
porters.         0£  times .   they  are  more  radiant  the 

one  than  the  other,  and  are  removed  the  one 
from  the  other  by  a  stupendous  distance,  im- 
measurable by  angels,  and  archangels,  by  gods 
and  all  invisibles,  as  I  have  already  said  unto 
you  on  another  occasion.  Moreover,  I  will  tell 
unto  you  the  type  of  each  of  them  in  their 
emanation." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  finished 
Mary  again  speaking  these  words  unto  his  dis- 
jesus!°r        ciples,  that  Mary  Magdalene  came  for- 


SECOND   BOOK.  203 

ward  again,  she  continued  [in  her  questioning] 
and  said  unto  Jesus  :  "  Master,  of  what  type  in 
the  midst  of  the  last  supporter,  will  be  they 
that  shall  have  received  the  mystery  of  light  ?  " 

And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  in 
the  midst  of  the  disciples :  "  They  who  shall 
have  received  the  mystery  of  light,  when  they 
shall  have    quitted    the   body    of  the   Sft4.hem. 

J-  J  that  receive 

matter    of   the    rulers,    (202)    each    of  the  mystery 

7     \  f  m  the  last 

them  shall  be  in  his  order,  according  supporter. 
to  the  mystery  which  he  shall  have  received. 
They  who  shall  have  received  a  high  mystery, 
shall  be  in  a  high  order ;  and  they  who  shall 
have  received  a  low  mystery,  in  a  low  order ; 
in  a  word,  of  whatever  regions  each  shall  have 
received  the  mystery,  he  shall  dwell  in  its  order 
in  the  inheritance  of  light.  For  which  cause  I 
said  unto  you  aforetime,  '  In  the  region  where  is 
your  heart,  there  also  shall  your  treasure  be  ' ; 
that  is  to  say,  in  the  region  of  which  each  shall 
have  received  the  mystery,  there  shall  he  rest." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  finished 
speaking  these  words  unto  his  disciples,  that 
John  came  forward,  and  said  unto  Jesus  :  "  My 
Master  and  saviour,  give  me  also  commandment 
to  speak  in  thy  presence,  and  be  not  wroth  with 
me  if  I  question  thee  on  every  matter  with 
earnestness  and  confidence ;  for,  0  Master,  thou 
hast  promised  to    reveal    unto    us  all  that   we 


204  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

should  ask.  Now,  therefore,  0  Master,  hide 
nothing  from  us  at  all  of  that  on  which  we 
question  thee." 

And  Jesus  answered  with  great  compassion, 
and  said  unto  John  :  "  To  thee,  also,  0  blessed 
John,  the  well -beloved,  I  give  commandment 
to  speak  the  word  which  thou  desirest,  and  I 
will  reveal  it  unto  thee  face  to  face,  without 
parable,  and  I  will  tell  thee  all  that  thou  askest 
me  with  earnestness  and  certainty." 

And  John  answered  and  said  unto  Jesus : 
John  ques-    "  Master,  concerning  the  region,  then, 

tioneth  _  '  &  . 

Jesus.  in  which  each  shall  have  received  the 

mystery  and  where  he  will  have  to  rest,  will 
there  be  no  power  of  quitting  it  for  other  higher 
orders ;  (203)  and  will  there  be  no  power  of 
entering  lower  orders  ?  " 

And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  John : 
"  Well,  indeed,  do  ye  question  on  every  matter 
with  earnestuess  and  confidence  ;  now,  therefore, 
John,  hearken  while  I  speak  unto  thee.  Who- 
soever shall  have  received  the  mystery  of  the 
light,  every  one  will  remain  in  the  region  where 
he  shall  have  received  the  mystery,  and  will 
not  have  the  power  of  going  into  the  heights, 
into  the  higher  orders. 

"  Thus  he  who  shall  have  received  the  mys- 
Of  the  first  tery  in  the  first  statute,  shall  have  the 
statute.        power  of  going  into  the  lower  orders, 


SECOND    BOOK.  205 

which  are  all  the  orders  of  the  third  space  ;  but 
will  not  have  the  power  of  going  towards  the 
height  into  the  higher  orders. 

"  And  he  who  shall  have  received  the  mystery 
of  the  first  mystery  looking  without,  0f  the  first 
which  is  the  four  and  twentieth  mys-  space* 
tery  and  the  head  of  the  first  space  towards  the 
exterior — he,  then,  shall  have  the  power  of 
going  into  all  the  exterior  orders ;  but  he  will 
not  have  the  power  of  going  into  the  higher 
regions  or  of  exploring  them. 

"  And  they  who  shall  have  received  the  mys- 
tery in  the  orders  of  those  four  and    0f  th.e 

J  second 

twenty  mysteries,  each  shall  enter  into  sPace- 
the  region  where  he  shall  have  received  the 
mystery,  and  each  will  have  the  power  of  explor- 
ing all  the  exterior  orders  and  spaces  ;  but  will 
not  have  the  power  of  going  into  the  higher 
orders  or  of  exploring  them. 

(204)  "  And  he  who  shall  have  received  the 
mystery  in  the  orders  of  the  first  mys-  of  the  third 
tery  which  is  in  the  third  space,  shall  space' 
have  the  power  of  going  into  all  the  lower 
orders,  and  of  exploring  them  all,  but  he  will 
not  have  the  power  of  going  into  the  higher 
regions  or  of  exploring  them. 

^Sna  he  who  shall  have  received  the  mystery 
of  the  first  trispiritual,  which  is  above  the  four 
and  twenty  mysteries,  one  after  the  other,  which 


206  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

belong  to  the  space  of  the  first  mystery,  of  which 
Of  the  tri-    j   w[]\  ^H    you    the    regions    in    the 

spirituals  J  ° 

in  the  third   emanation   of  the  pleroma — he,  then, 

space,  i.e.,  x 

the  first        wno  shall  have  received  the  mystery  of 

space  of  the 

ineffable.  this  trispiritual,  shall  have  the  power 
of  descending  into  all  the  lower  orders ;  but  he 
will  not  have  the  power  of  going  into  the  height, 
to  the  higher  orders,  which  are  all  the  orders  of 
the  space  of  the  ineffable. 

"  And  he  who  shall  have  received  the  mystery 
of  the  second  trispiritual,  shall  have  the  power 
of  going  into  all  the  orders  of  the  first  trispirit- 
ual, and  of  exploring  them  all  and  all  the  orders 
that  are  therein  ;  but  he  will  not  have  the  power 
of  going  into  the  orders  of  the  height  of  the 
third  trispiritual. 

(205)  "  And  he  who  shall  have  received  the 
mystery  of  the  third  trispiritual,  which  leadeth 
to  the  three  trispintuals  and  the  three  spaces  of 
the  first  mystery,  one  after  the  other  [shall 
enter  therein];  but  he  will  not  have  the  power  of 
going  into  the  height,  to  the  higher  orders, 
which  are  the  orders  of  the  space  of  the  inef- 
fable. 

"  But  he  who  shall  have  received  the  absolute 
of  the  at>-   myStery  of  the   first   mystery  of  the 

solute  mys-         J  J  j  j 

tery-  ineffable,   that   is  to    say,   the   twelve 

mysteries  of  the  first  mystery,  one  after  another, 
which  bring  him    into    the   spaces   of  the  first 


SECOND   BOOK.  207 

mystery — he,  then,  who  shall  have  received  this 
mystery,  shall  have  the  power  of  exploring  all 
the  orders  of  the  spaces  of  the  three  trispirituals 
and  of  the  three  spaces  of  the  first  mystery,  and 
also  all  their  orders ;  and  he  shall  have  the 
power  of  exploring  all  the  orders  of  the  inherit- 
ance of  light,  of  exploring  from  without  within, 
and  from  within  without,  from  above  below,  and 
from  below  above,  from  the  height  to  the  depth, 
and  from  the  depth  to  the  height,  from  the 
length  to  the  breadth,  and  from  the  breadth  to 
the  length  ;  in  a  word,  (206)  he  shall  have  the 
power  of  exploring  all  the  regions  of  the  inherit- 
ances of  light,  and  he  shall  have  the  power  of 
remaining  in  the  region  which  he  shall  choose, 
in  the  inheritance  of  the  light-kingdom. 

"  Amen,  I  say  unto  you,  this  man,  in  the 
dissolution  of  the  wTorld,  shall  be  king  over  all 
the  orders  of  the  inheritance  of  light ;  and  he 
who  shall  have  received  the  mystery  of  the 
ineffable,  that  man  is  myself. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there   0f  ^e  , 

J  J  J  gnosis  of 

is  darkness,  and  why  light.  *ne  abs°- 

J       °  lute  mys- 

"That  mystery  knoweth  why  there   terJ- 
i  is  the  darkness  of  darknesses,  and  why  the  light 
\  of  lights. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  chaos  exist- 
eth,  and  why  the  treasure  of  light. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  judg- 


208  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 


ments,  and  why  the  light- world  hath  been 
created  together  with  the  region  of  the  inherit- 
ances of  light. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  are  all  the 
punishments  of  sinners,  and  why  the  rest  of  the 
kingdom  of  light. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  siu- 
ners,  and  why  inheritances  of  light. 

(207)  "  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are 
unrighteous,  and  why  there  are  good. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  sen- 
tences of  punishment,  and  why  are  all  the 
emanations  of  light. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  sin  existeth, 
and  why  there  are  baptisms  and  mysteries  of 
light. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  fire  of 
punishment  existeth,  and  why  there  are  seals  of 
light  to  escape  the  burning  of  the  fire. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  blasphemy  ex- 
isteth, and  why  there  are  songs  to  the  light. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  prayers 
to  the  light. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  cursing  ex- 
isteth, and  why  blessing. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  killing  existeth, 
and  why  the  enlivening  of  souls. 

(208)  "  That  mystery  knoweth  why  adultery 
and  fornication  exist,  and  why  there  is  purity. 


SECOND   BOOK.  209 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  inter- 
course, and  why  continence. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  pride 
and  boasting,  and  why  humility  and  gentle- 
ness. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  tears, 
and  why  laughter. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  slander, 
and  why  good  conversation. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  readi- 
ness to  hear,  and  why  disregard. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  murmur- 
ing, and  why  simpleness  and  holiness. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  sin,  and 
why  purity. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  strength, 
and  why  weakness. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  bodily 
impropriety,  and  why  decency. 

(209)  "  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is 
poverty,  aud  why  riches. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  wealth 
in  the  world,  and  why  bondage. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  death, 
-and  why  life." 

It  came  to  pass,   therefore,   when  Jesus  had 

finished  saying  these  words  unto  his  disciples, 

that  they  rejoiced  with  great  joy,  and  were  in 

gladness  on  hearing  his  words.     And  Jesus  con- 

14 


210  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

tinued  further  in  his  conversation,  and  said  unto 
them  : 

"  Hearken,  therefore,  now  further,  0  my  dis- 
ciple's, while  I  tell  you  the  whole  gnosis  of  the 
mystery  of  the  meltable. 
The  gnosis        « TBSffi    mystery     of    the     ineffable 

of  the  mys-  J  J 

tery  of  the   knoweth    why    there    is    pitilessness, 

ineffable  J  r  ' 

continued,     and  why  compassion. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  de- 
struction, and  why  everlasting  increase. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  rep- 
tiles, and  why  they  shall  be  destroyed. 

(210)  "That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are 
wild  beasts,  and  why  they  shall  be  destroyed. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  beasts 
of  burden,  and  why  birds. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  moun- 
tains, and  why  there  are  precious  stones  therein. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  the 
matter  of  gold,  and  why  that  of  silver. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  the 
matter  of  brass,  and  why  that  of  iron  and  steel. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  the 
matter  of  lead. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  the 
matter  of  glass,  and  why  the  matter  of  wax. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  herbs 
and  plants,  and  why  all  matters  exist. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  waters 


SECOND   BOOK.  211 

on  the  earth,  and  why  all  the  things  that  are  in 
them,  and  why  there  is  also  earth. 

(211)  "That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are 
the  seas  with  their  waters,  and  why  the  wild 
denizens  in  the  seas. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  the 
matter  of  the  world,  and  why  it  shall  be  utterly 
resolved." 

And  Jesus  continued  further  in  his  conversa- 
tion, and  said  unto  his  disciples  : 

"  Yet  again,  0  my  disciples,  my  comrades  and 
my  brethren,  let  each  be  sober  in  mind,  let  him 
hear  and  understand  all  the  words  which  I  shall 
say  unto  you  ;  for,  from  this  hour  henceforth,  I 
shall  begin  to  speak  with  you  concerning  the 
gnosis  of  that  ineffable. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  a  west, 
and  why  an  east. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  a  south, 
and  why  a  north. 

"  Yet  again,  0  my  disciples,  hearken  and  con- 
tinue to  be  sober,  that  ye  may  hear  the  entire 
gnosis  of  the  mystery  of  that  ineffable. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  de- 
mons, and  why  men. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  heat, 
and  why  the  cool  breeze. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  stars, 
and  why  clouds. 


212  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

(212)  "That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  earth 
is  dug  out,  and  why  the  waters  have  come  over 
it. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  earth  is 
dried  up,  and  why  the  rain  falleth  upon  it. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  famine, 
and  why  abundance. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  white 
frost,  and  why  healthful  dew. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  dust, 
and  why  delightsome  freshness. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  hail, 
and  why  pleasant  snow. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  a  west 
wind,  and  why  an  east  wind. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  a  south 
wind,  and  why  a  north  wind. 

"That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  the 
Of  the  hie-   planets  of  heaven   and   the    disks   of 

rarchies  of      r 

powers.  j^  light-givers,  (213)  and  why  there 
is  the  firmament  with  all  its  veils. 

"That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  rulers 
of  the  spheres,  and  why  the  sphere  with  all  its 
types. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  rulers 
of  the  aeons,  and  why  the  aeons  and  their  veils. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  rulers 
of  the  tyrant  aeons,  and  why  there  are  repentant 
rulers. 


SECOND   BOOK.  213 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  ser- 
vants, and  why  decans. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are 
angels,  and  why  archangels. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  lords, 
and  why  gods. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  hath 
been  rivalry  in  the  height,  and  why  there  hath 
been  lack  of  rivalry. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  hate, 
and  why  love. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  discord, 
and  why  concord. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  avarice, 
(214)  and  why  renunciation  of  all  things. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  hath  been 
love  of  possessions. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  love  of 
fattening,  and  why  satiety. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  paired, 
and  why  unpaired. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  impiety, 
[and  why  love  of  deity]. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  light- 
givers,  and  why  sparks. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  triple- 
powers,  and  why  invisibles. 

That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  fore- 
fathers, and  why  purities. 


214  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

"That  mystery  knowetli  why  is  the  great 
Arrogant,  and  why  his  faithful. 

"That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  the 
great  triple-power,  and  why  the  great  invisible 
forefather. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  the 
thirteenth  aeon,  (215)  and  why  the  region  of 
them  of  the  midst. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  the 
receivers  of  the  midst,  and  why  the  virgins  of 
light. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  the 
ministers  of  the  midst,  and  why  the  angels  of 
the  midst. 

"That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  the  light- 
world,  and  why  the  great  receivers  of  the  light. 
"  That   mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  the 
guardians  of  the  region  of  them  of  the  right,  and 
why  the  leaders  of  these  [guardians]. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  the 
gate  of  life,  and  why  Sabaoth,  the  good. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  the 
region  of  them  of  the  right,  and  why  the  light- 
world,  which  is  the  treasure  of  light. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  the 

emanations  of  light,  and  why  the  twelve  saviours. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  the 

three  gates  of  the  treasure  of  light,  and  why  the 

nine  guardians. 


SECOND    BOOK.  215 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  the 
twin  saviours,  (216)  and  why  the  three  aniens. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  the 
five  trees,  and  why  the  seven  amens. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  the 
mixture  which  once  did  not  exist,  and  why  it 
hath  been  purified." 

And  Jesus  continued  further  in  his  conversa- 
tion and  said,  unto  his  disciples  :  "Be  sober  still, 
my  disciples,  and  let  each  of  you  bring  the  power 
of  sensing  the  light  before  him,  that  ye  may 
hear  with  earnestness  ;  for  henceforth  from  this 
time  I  will  describe  for  you  the  entire  region  of 
the  truth  of  the  ineffable,  and  of  the  manner  in 
which  it  is." 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  the  disciples 
had  heard  the  words  which  Jesus  had   T.h<?  dlf" 

ciples  lose 

spoken,  that  they  were  cast  down  and  courage, 
lost  courage  entirely.  Mary  Magdalene  came 
forward,  she  bowed  herself  at  the  feet  of  Jesus, 
and  worshipped  them  ;  she  cried  aloud  and  wept, 
saying:  "Have  mercy  upon  me,  Master;  for 
liave  not  my  brethren  heard  and  lost  all  courage 
because  of  the  words  which  thou  hast  spoken  ? 
Now,  therefore,  0  Master,  concerning  the  gnosis 
of  all  the  things  which  thou  hast  said  are  in  the 
mystery  of  that  ineffable,  (217)  I  heard  thee  say, 
*  Henceforth  from  this  time  I  shall  begin  to  tell 
unto  you  the   entire  gnosis  of  this  mystery   of 


216  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

that  ineffable ' — well  then,  as  to  these  words  thou 
hast  not  brought  us  to  a  perfect  understanding 
thereof.  Wherefore  my  brethren  have  heard ; 
they  have  lost  courage,  they  have  ceased  to 
sense  the  meaning  of  thy  speech,  and  [that]  be- 
cause of  the  words  thou  hast  employed.  Now., 
therefore,  0  Master,  if  the  gnosis  of  all  these 
things  is  in  that  mystery,  who  is  the  man  in  this 
world  who  shall  be  able  to  understand  that 
mystery  and  all  its  gnoses,  and  the  fashion  of  all 
the  words  which  thou  hast  spoken  concerning  it? " 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  Jesus  had 
heard  the  words  which  Mary  said,  that  he  under- 
stood that  the  disciples  had  heard,  but  that  they 
were  beginning  to  lose  courage.  Therefore,  he 
encouraged  them,  saying :  "  Grieve  not,  my 
disciples,  concerning  the  mystery  of  that  ineffable, 
thinking  that  ye  will  not  understand  it.  Amen., 
I  say  unto  you,  that  mystery  is  yours,  and  every 
one's  who  shall  give  ear  unto  you,  and  shall 
renounce  the  whole  of  this  world,  and  all  the 
matter  therein,  who  shall  renounce  all  the  evil 
thoughts  that  are  therein,  and  shall  renounce  all 
the  cares  of  this  aeon. 

(218)  "  Now,  therefore,  will  I  tell  you  :  Whoso- 
jesus  ex-  ever  shall  renounce  the  whole  world 
that  that      and  all  therein,  and  shall  submit  him- 

mystery  is  ,  „  ,        , .     .     .  ,  .         , 

really  simp-  sell  to  the  divinity,  to  him  that  mystery 
mysteries,     shall  be    far  more  easy    than    all  the 


SECOND   BOOK.  217 

mysteries  of  the  kingdom  of  light ;  it  is  far 
simpler  to  understand  than  all  the  rest,  and  it  is 
far  clearer  than  them  all.  He  who  shall  arrive 
at  a  knowledge  of  that  mystery,  hath  renounced 
the  whole  of  this  world  and  all  its  cares.  For 
this  cause  have  I  said  to  you  aforetime,  '  Come 
unto  me  all  ye  that  are  oppressed  with  cares  and 
labour  under  their  weight,  and  I  will  give  you 
rest,  for  my  burden  is  light  and  my  yoke  easy.' 
Now,  therefore,  he  who  shall  receive  that  mystery, 
hath  renounced  the  whole  world,  and  all  the 
material  cares  that  are  therein. 

"  Wherefore,  my  disciples,  grieve  not,  thinking 
that  ye  will  never  understand  that  mystery. 
Amen,  I  say  unto  you,  that  mystery  is  far  simpler 
to  understand  than  all  mysteries ;  and  amen,  I 
say  unto  you,  that  mystery  is  yours  and  also  his 
whosoever  shall  renounce  the  whole  world  and 
all  the  matter  that  is  therein. 

"  Now,  therefore,  hearken,  0  my  disciples,  my 
friends  and  my  brethren,  that  I  may  impel  you 
to  the  understanding  of  that  mystery  of  the  in- 
effable. (219)  These  things  I  say  unto  you, 
because  I  have  already  instructed  you  in  every 
gnosis  in  the  emanation  of  the  pleroma ;  for  the 
emanation  of  the  pleroma  is  its  gnosis. 

"  Now,  therefore,  that  I  may  speak  with  you 
further  for  your  understanding  of  these 
mysteries. 


218  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  five  sup- 
porters rent  themselves  asunder,  and  why  they 
emanated  from  the  parentless. 
Ofthefissi-  "That  mystery  knoweth  why  the 
aSationof "  great  light  of  lights  rent  itself  asun- 
of thepfe-8  ^er,  and  wny  they  emanated  from  the 
roma.  parentless. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  first  statute 
rent  itself  asunder,  and  why  it  separated  itself 
from  the  seven  mysteries,  and  why  they  ema- 
nated from  the  parentless. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  great  light 
and  the  impression  of  light  rent  themselves 
asunder,  and  why  they  remained  without  emana- 
tion, and  why  they  came  forth  from  the  parent- 
less. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  first  mystery 
rent  itself  asunder,  that  is  to  say,  the  four  and 
twentieth  mystery  from  the  exterior,  and  why  it 
equalled  in  itself  the  twelve  mysteries  (220) 
according  to  the  number  of  the  uncontainable 
impassables,  and  why  it  emanated  from  the 
parentless. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  twelve  im- 
Of  them  of    moveables    rent    themselves    asunder, 
spaceofThe   ano^   wnv  they  were  established  with 
all  their  orders,   and  why  they   ema- 
nated from  the  parentless. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  unshakeables 


SECOND   BOOK.  219 

rent  themselves  asunder,  and  why  they  were 
established,  separated  from  the  [or  into]  twelve 
orders,  and  why  they  emanated  from  the  parent- 
less  which  pertain  to  the  orders  of  the  space  of 
the  ineffable. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  inconceiv- 
ables  which  pertain  to  the  two  spaces  [?  second 
space]  of  that  ineffable  rent  themselves  asunder, 
and  why  they  emanated  from  the  parentless. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  twelve 
unmanifestables  rent  themselves  asunder,  and 
why  they  were  established  after  all  the  orders  of 
the  unrevealables,  which  are  also  uncontainable 
impassables,  and  why  they  emanated  from  the 
parentless. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  these  unreveal- 
ables rent  themselves  asunder — [they]  which 
did  not  reveal  themselves,  nor  bring  themselves 
into  manifestation,  according  to  the  regulation  of 
the  one  and  only  ineffable,  (221)  and  why  they 
emanated  from  the  parentless. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  super-depths 
rent  themselves  asunder,  and  why  they  set 
themselves  in  one  order,  and  why  they  emanated 
from  the  parentless. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  twelve  orders 
of  the  unspeakables  rent  themselves  asunder, 
and  why  they  were  divided  into  three  divisions, 
and  why  they  emanated  from  the  parentless. 


220  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  all  the  inde- 
structibles  in  their  twelve  orders  rent  themselves 
asunder,  and  why  they  were  set  in  a  single 
order,  emanating  one  after  the  other,  and  why 
they  were  divided  and  formed  separated  orders, 
being  also  uncontainable  impassables,  and  why 
they  emanated  from  the  parentless. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  impassables 
rent  themselves  asunder,  and  why  they  emanated 
from  the  parentless. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  impassables 
rent  themselves  asunder,  and  why  they  were 
formed  into  twelve  impassable  spaces,  and  were 
set  in  three  orders  of  spaces,  according  to  the 
regulation  of  the  one  and  only  ineffable,  and 
why  they  emanated  from  the  parentless. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  twelve  un- 
containables  which  belong  to  the  orders  of  the 
one  and  only  ineffable,  (222)  rent  themselves 
asunder,  and  why  they  emanated  from  the  parent- 
less, until  they  reached  the  space  of  the  first 
mystery  which  is  the  second  space. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  four  and 
twenty  myriads  of  the  laudables  rent  themselves 
asunder,  and  why  they  separated  beyond  the 
veil  of  the  first  mystery,  which  is  the  twin 
mystery,  looking  within  and  without,  of  the 
one  and  only  ineffable,  and  why  they  also 
emanated  from  the  parentless. 


SECOND   BOOK.  221 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  all  the  uncon- 
tainables  which  I  have  just  enumerated — they 
which  are  in  the  regions  of  the  second  space  of 
the  ineffable,  that  is  to  say,  the  space  of  the 
first  mystery — why  they  rent  themselves  asun- 
der, and  why  these  uncontainables  and  im- 
passables  emanated  from  the  parentless. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  four  and 
twenty  mysteries  of  the  first  trispirit-  0f  them  of 
ual  rent  themselves  asunder,  and  why  Lac/ofthe 
they  are  called  the  four  and  twenty  lnefiable- 
spaces  of  the  first  trispiritual,  and  why  they 
emanated  from  the  second  trispiritual. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  four  and 
twenty  mysteries  of  the  second  trispiritual  rent 
themselves  asunder,  (223)  and  why  they  ema- 
nated from  the  third  trispiritual. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  four  and 
twenty  mysteries  of  the  third  trispiritual  rent 
themselves  asunder — they  which  are  the  four 
and  twenty  spaces  of  the  third  trispiritual — and 
why  they  emanated  from  the  parentless. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  five  trees  of 
the  first  trispiritual  rent  themselves  asunder, 
and  why  they  developed  in  orderly  sequence 
and  mutual  connection,  they  and  all  their  orders, 
and  why  they  emanated  from  the  parentless. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  five  trees 
of  the  second  trispiritual  rent  themselves  asun- 


222  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

der,  and  why  they  emanated  from  the  parent- 
less. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  five  trees 
of  the  third  trispiritual  rent  themselves  asunder, 
and  why  they  emanated  from  the  parentless. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  foreun- 
containables  of  the  first  of  the  three  trispirituals 
rent  themselves  asunder,  and  why  they  ema- 
nated from  the  parentless. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  foreun- 
containables  of  the  second  trispiritual  rent  them- 
selves asunder,  and  why  they  emanated  from 
the  parentless. 

(224)  "  That  mystery  knoweth  why  all  the 
foreuncontainables  of  the  third  trispiritual  rent 
themselves  asunder,  and  why  they  emanated 
from  the  parentless. 

"That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  first  tri- 
spiritual below,  of  them  that  pertain  to  the 
orders  of  the  one  and  only  ineffable,  rent  itself 
asunder,  and  why  it  emanated  from  the  second 
trispiritual. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  third  tri- 
spiritual, which  is  the  first  trispiritual  from 
above,  rent  itself  asunder,  and  why  it  emanated 
from  the  twelfth  protrispiritual,  which  is  in  the 
last  region  of  the  parentless. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  all  the  regions 
which  are  in   the  space   of  the  ineffable  were 


SECOND   BOOK.  223 

emanated,  together  with  all  them  which  are  in 
them,  and  why  they  emanated  from  the  last  of 
the  limbs  of  the  ineffable. 

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  he  himself  also 
rent  himself  asunder  to  emanate  from  the  in- 
effable— to  wit,  he  who  commands  them  all ; 
he  who  caused  them  all  to  emanate  according 
to  their  orders. 

(225)  "  All  this  will  I  explain  unto  you  when 
speaking    of    the    emanation    of    the   Je.susPr°- 

*■  °  misetn  to 

pleroma.     In  a  word,  all   that   I   have    exPlain 

r  '  further  all 

said  unto  you,  both  that  which  shall  in  detail. 
be,  and  that  which  shall  come,  they  that  are 
emanating,  and  they  which  have  emanated,  they 
which  are  without  them,  and  they  that  act  in 
them,  they  which  shall  be  contained  in  the 
region  of  the  first  mystery,  and  they  which 
shall  be  in  the  space  of  the  ineffable — all 
these  I  will  explain  unto  you,  by  region  and 
order,  when  treating  of  the  emanation  of  the 
pleroma ;  and  I  will  reveal  unto  you  all  the 
mysteries  which  command  them  with  their 
protrispirituals  and  supertrispirituals  which 
command  their  mysteries  and  their  orders. 

"  Now,  therefore,  it  is  the  mystery  of  the 
ineffable    which    knoweth    why   all    of  OfthemyB- 

J  tery  suc- 

which  I  have  spoken    unto  you  hath   cinctiy. 
come  into  existence ;    of  a  truth   all  this  hath 
existed  because  of  it.     He  is  the  mystery  which 


224  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

is  in  them  all ;  he  is  the  emanation  of  them  all, 
the  re-absorption  of  them  all,  and  the  support  of 
them  all. 

"  This  mystery  of  the  ineffable  is  in  all  those 
of  which  I  have  spoken,  and  of  which  I  shall 
speak  in  treating  of  the  emanation  of  the  pleroma. 
He  is  the  mystery  which  is  in  them  all,  and  he 
is  the  one  mystery  of  the  ineffable.  (226)  And 
the  gnosis  of  that  which  I  have  said  unto  you, 
and  of  what  I  have  not  yet  spoken  unto  you,  but 
of  all  of  which  I  shall  speak  when  treating  of  the 
emanation  of  the  pleroma,  and  the  whole  gnosis 
of  each  of  them,  one  after  another,  that  is  to  say, 
why  they  exist — all  this  is  the  one  word  of  the 
ineffable. 

"  And  I  will  tell  unto  you  the  emanation  of 
all  their  mysteries,  the  types  of  each  of  them  and 
the  manner  of  perfecting  them  in  all  their  con- 
figurations. And  I  will  tell  unto  you  the 
mystery  of  the  one  and  only  ineffable,  and  all  its 
types,  all  its  configurations  and  all  its  regulation  ; 
and  why  also  it  emanated  from  the  last  of  the 
limbs  of  the  ineffable,  for  this  mystery  is  the 
support  of  them  all. 

"  And  the  mystery  of  the  ineffable  is  also  the 
Of  the  one  one  and  only  word,  but  there  is  another 
wnord°oflythe  [wordl  on  the  tongue  of  the  ineffable  ; 
meffabie.      y.  j^  ^q  rule  of  the  interpretation  of  all 

the  words  which  I  have  spoken  unto  you. 


SECOND   BOOK.  225 

"  And  he  who  shall  receive  the  one  and  only 
word  of  that  mystery  which  I  shall  now  tell  unto 
you,  with  all  its  types,  and  all  its  configurations, 
and  the  manner  of  accomplishing  its  mystery — for 
ye  are  all  perfect  perfect  ones,  and  ye  shall  achieve 
all  the  gnosis  of  this  mystery  with  all  its  regulation 
and  its  utterance,  for  unto  you  all  mysteries  are 
entrusted.  Hearken,  then,  now,  while  I  tell  you 
that  mystery,  which  is  this  ....  (227)  He,  there- 
fore, who  shall  receive  the  one  and  only  word  of 
that  mystery,  of  which  I  have  told  you,  when 
he  shall  have  come  forth  from  the  body  of  the  as- 
of  the  matter  of  the  rulers,  when  the  re-  thTsouitf 
ceivers  of  wrath  shall  come  and  set  shSi^re-° 
him  free  from  the  body  of  matter  of  the  aSute6 
aeons — for  the  receivers  of  wrath  are  mystery- 
they  who  set  free  every  soul  which  shall  go  forth 
from  the  body — when,  then,  the  receivers  of 
1  wrath  shall  have  set  free  that  soul  which  shall 
have  received  this  absolute  mystery  of  the  in- 
effable, which  I  have  just  told  unto  you,  then,  in 
that  hour  when  it  shall  be  set  free  from  the  body 
of  matter,  it  shall  become  a  great  light-stream 
in  the  midst  of  those  receivers,  and  the  receivers 
shall  fear  exceedingly  before  the  light  of  that 
soul,  they  shall  be  thrown  into  consternation, 
and  shall  sink  down,  and  desist  entirely,  for  fear 
of  the  great  light  which  they  shall  have  seen. 

"  And  the  soul  which  shall  have  received  the 

15 


226  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

mystery  of  the  ineffable,  shall  soar  into  the 
height  as  a  great  light-stream,  and  the  receivers 
shall  not  be  able  to  take  hold  upon  it,  nor  will 
they  know  the  way  which  it  goeth,  for  it  hath 
become  a  radiant  stream,  and  flieth  into  the 
height,  and  no  power  shall  be  able  to  restrain 
it  at  all  in  any  way,  nor  be  able  to  come 
nigh  it. 

(228)  "It  shall  pass  through  all  the  regions 
of  the  rulers  and  all  the  regions  of  the  light- 
emanations  ;  it  shall  give  no  explanation  in 
any  region,  nor  any  apology,  nor  any  symbol, 
for  no  power  of  the  rulers,  no  power  of  the  light- 
emanations,  shall  be  able  to  come  nigh  that  soul. 
But  all  the  regions  of  the  rulers,  and  all  the 
regions  of  the  light-emanations,  each  of  them  in 
its  own  region,  shall  sing  a  song  unto  it,  in  fear 
of  the  light  of  the  stream  that  shall  clothe  that 
soul,  until  it  hath  passed  through  all  of  them, 
and  entered  into  the  region  of  the  inheritance  of 
the  mystery  which  it  hath  received — the  mystery 
of  that  one  and  only  ineffable — and  become  one 
with  the  limbs  [of  the  ineffable].  Amen,  I  say 
unto  you,  it  shall  be  in  all  the  regions  during 
the  time  a  man  can  shoot  an  arrow. 

"  Amen,  I  say  unto  you,  every  man  who  shall 
,    receive  that  mystery  of  the  ineffable, 

Of  the  rank  ... 

of  such  a      and  shall  accomplish  it  in  all  its  types 
and  all  its  configurations,  though  he  be 


SECOND   BOOK.  227 

a  man  in  the  world,  yet  is  he  higher  than  all 
angels,  and  shall  far  surpass  them  all. 

"  Though  he  be  a  man  in  the  world,  yet  is  he 
higher  than  all  archangels,  and  shall  far  surpass 
them  all. 

(229)  "  Though  he  be  a  man  in  the  world, 
yet  is  he  higher  than  all  tyrants,  and  shall  be 
exalted  above  them  all. 

"  Though  he  be  a  man  in  the  world,  yet  is  he 
higher  than  all  lords,  and  shall  be  exalted  above 
them  all. 

"  Though  he  be  a  man  in  the  world,  yet  is  he 
higher  than  all  gods,  and  shall  be  exalted  among 
them  all. 

"  Though  he  be  a  man  in  the  world,  yet  is  he 
higher  than  all  light-givers,  and  shall  be  exalted 
above  them  all. 

"  Though  he  be  a  man  in  the  world,  yet  is  he 
higher  than  all  purities,  and  shall  be  exalted 
above  them  all. 

"  Though  he  be  a  man  in  the  world,  yet  is  he 
higher  than  all  triple  powers,  and  shall  be  ex- 
alted above  them  all. 

"  Though  he  be  a  man  in  the  world,  yet  is  he 
higher  than  all  forefathers,  and  shall  be  exalted 
above  them  all. 

"  Though  he  be  a  man  in  the  world,  yet  is  he 
higher  than  all  invisibles,  and  shall  be  exalted 
above  them  all. 


228  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

"  Though  he  be  a  man  in  the  world,  yet  is  he 
higher  than  all  them  of  the  midst,  and  shall  be 
exalted  above  them  all. 

"  Though  he  be  a  man  in  the  world,  yet  is  he 
higher  than  the  emanations  of  the  treasure  of 
light,  and  shall  be  exalted  above  them  all. 

"  Though  he  be  a  man  in  the  world,  yet  is  he 
higher  than  the  mixture,  and  shall  be  exalted 
above  the  whole  of  it. 

(230)  "  Though  he  be  a  man  in  the  world,  yet 
is  he  higher  than  the  whole  region  of  the 
treasure,  and  shall  be  exalted  above  the  whole 
of  it. 

"  Though  he  be  a  man  in  the  world,  yet  shall 
he  be  king  with  me  in  my  kingdom.  He  is  a 
man  in  the  world,  but  a  king  in  the  light. 

"  Though  he  be  a  man  in  the  world,  yet  is  he 
a  man  who  is  not  of  the  world. 

"  Amen,  I  say  unto  you,  that  man  is  myself, 
and  I  am  that  man. 

"  And  in  the  dissolution  of  the  world,  that  is 
Such  souls  to  say,  when  the  pleroma  shall  achieve 
"Christs,"  its  ascension,  when  the  number  of  all 
be  kings  in  the  perfect  souls  shall  have  ascended, 
dom.m  and  when  I  shall  be  king  in  the 
midst  of  the  last  supporter,  king  over  all  the 
light-emanations,  king  over  the  seven  amens, 
the  five  trees,  the  three  amens,  and  the  nine 
guardians,  king  over  the  child  of  the  child,  that 


SECOND   BOOK.  229 

is  to  say,  over  the  twin  saviours,  king  over  the 
twelve  saviours  and  the  whole  number  of  perfect 
souls  which  shall  have  received  the  mystery  in 
the  light — then,  all  those  men  who  shall  have 
received  the  mystery  in  that  ineffable,  shall  be 
fellow-kings  with  me,  they  shall  sit  on  my  right 
hand  and  on  my  left  in  my  kingdom. 

"  Amen,  I  say  unto  you,  those  men  are  my- 
self, and  I  am  these  men. 

"  Wherefore  T  said  unto  you  aforetime,  '  Ye 
shall  sit  on  my  right  hand  and  on  my  left  in 
my  kingdom,  and  ye  shall  reign  with  me/ 

(231)  "For  this  cause,  therefore,  I  have  not 
hesitated,  nor  have  I  been  ashamed  to  call  you 
brethren  and  friends,  for  ye  shall  be  fellow- 
kings  with  me  in  my  kingdom.  These  things, 
then,  I  said  unto  you,  knowing  that  I  would 
give  unto  you  the  mystery  of  that  ineffable ; 
and  that  mystery  is  myself,  and  I  am  that 
mystery. 

"  Now,  therefore,  not  only  shall  ye  reign  with 
me  in  my  kingdom,  but  all  men  who  ^/tth0ef^" 
shall  receive  the   mystery  of  that  in-   ^ro^-GS  in 

J  J  the  kmg- 

effable,  shall  be  fellow-kings  with  me  dom- 
in  my  kingdom,  and  I  am  they  and  they  are 
myself,  but  my  throne  shall  be  more  excellent 
than  theirs.  And  because  ye  shall  suffer  griefs 
in  this  world  beyond  all  men,  until  ye  shall 
have  heralded  forth  all  the  words  which  I  shall 


r^ 


230  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

speak  unto  you,  your  thrones  shall  be  close  to 
mine  in  my  kingdom. 

"  Wherefore  have  I  said  unto  you  aforetime, 
'  In  the  place  where  I  shall  be,  there  will  be 
also  my  twelve  ministers,  but  Mary  Magdalene 
and  John,  the  virgin,  shall  be  higher  than  all 
the  disciples. 

"  And  all  men  who  shall  receive  the  mystery 
in  that  ineffable,  shall  be  on  my  left  hand  and 
on  my  right,  and  I  am  they,  and  they  are  my- 
self. 

"  They  shall  be  your  equals  in  all  things,  and 
yet  your  thrones  shall  be  more  excellent  than 
theirs,  and  my  throne  shall  be  more  excellent 
than  yours  (232)  and  [than  those  of]  all  men 
who  shall  have  found  the  word  of  that  inef- 
fable. 

"  Amen,  I  say  unto  you,  the  man  who  shall 
Of  the  know  this  word,  shall  know  the  gnosis 

gnosis  of  '  o 

the  word  of   0f  an  ^e  WOrds  which  I  have  said  unto 

the  inef- 
fable. V0U)   both  with  regard   to   depth  and 

height,  with  regard  to  length  and  breadth  ;  in  a 

word,  they  shall  possess   the  gnosis  of  all  the 

words  which  I  have  said  unto  you,  and  of  those 

which  I  have  not  spoken  unto  you,  but  which  I 

will  tell  unto  you,  region  by  region  and  order 

by  order,  as    I    explain    the    emanation  of  the 

pleroma. 

"  Amen,  I  say  unto  you,  they  shall  know  how 


SECOND   BOOK.  231 

the  world  is  constituted,  and  they  shall  know- 
why  all  them  of  the  height  are  constituted  in 
such  or  such  type,  and  they  shall  know  where- 
fore the  pleroma  existeth." 

And  when  the  saviour  had  said  these  things, 
Mary  Magdalene  came  forward  and  said  :  "  Mas- 
ter, bear  with  me,  and  be  not  wroth  with  me,  if 
I  question  on  every  matter  with  earnestness  and 
confidence.  Now,  therefore,  my  Master,  surely 
there  is  no  other  word  of  the  mystery  of  that 
Ineffable,    nor    any    other    word    of  the   whole 


gnosis 


2  " 


The  saviour  answered  and  said  :  "  Yea,  verily  ; 
there  is  another  mystery  of  that  ineffable  and 
another  word  of  the  whole  gnosis." 

And  Mary  answered  again  and  said  unto  the 
saviour  :  "  Master,  bear  with  me  if  I  question 
thee,  and  be  not  wroth  with  me.  Now,  there- 
fore, 0  Master,  if  we  tarry  not  in  life  until  we 
know  the  gnosis  of  the  whole  word  of  that  in- 
effable, shall  we  not  inherit  the  light-king- 
dom ? " 

(233)  The   saviour   answered   and   said  unto 
Mary  :    "  Yea,    verily  ;    every    one    of  0f  the  dis. 
those  who  shall  receive  a  mystery  of  between 
the  light,  shall  enter  therein  to  inherit   ju^mosis 
In  the  region  of  which  he  hath  received   Juries 
the  mystery;  but  he  shall  not  know   ofhght' 
the  whole  gnosis,  wherefore  all  things  come  into 


232  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

existence,  unless  he  knoweth  the  only  word  of 
that  ineffable,  that  is  to  say,  the  gnosis  of  the 
pleroma  ;  further  and  in  all  openness,  I  am  the 
gnosis  of  the  pleroma.  Nor  is  there  any  pos- 
sibility of  knowing  the  one  and  only  word  of 
gnosis,  without  receiving  the  first  mystery  of 
that  ineffable  ;  but  all  the  men  who  shall  receive 
a  mystery  of  light,  each  shall  enter  therein  to 
inherit  up  to  the  region  of  which  he  shall  have 
received  the  mystery. 

"  Wherefore  have  I  said  unto  you  aforetime, 
'  He  that  believeth  on  a  prophet,  shall  receive  a 
prophet's  reward,  and  he  that  believeth  on  a  just 
man,  shall  receive  a  just  man's  reward.'  He  shall 
enter  into  the  region  of  which  he  shall  receive 
the  mystery.  He  who  receiveth  a  lower  mystery, 
shall  inherit  a  lower  region  ;  and  he  who  re- 
ceiveth a  higher  mystery,  shall  inherit  the  region 
of  the  height.  And  each  shall  dwell  in  his  region 
in  the  light  of  my  kingdom,  each  shall  have 
power  over  the  lower  orders,  but  he  will  not 
have  power  to  enter  into  the  higher  orders  ;  he 
shall  dwell  in  the  region  of  the  inheritance  of 
the  light  of  my  kingdom,  (234)  in  stupendous 
light  which  cannot  be  measured  either  by  gods 
or  all  the  invisibles  ;  he  shall  be  in  great  joy 
and  great  gladness. 

"  Now,  therefore,  also,  hearken,  I  will  speak 
with  you  concerning   the    glory    of  those   also 


SECOND   BOOK.  233 

who    shall   receive   the    mysteries    of    the   first 
mystery. 

"  He,  therefore,  who  shall  receive  the  [first] 
mvsterv   of  that  first  mystery,   when    0f  *he  as; 

J  J  j  j  '  cension    of 

the  time    cometh   for  him    to    depart   the  souls  of 

x  them    that 

from  the  body   of  the   matter  of  the   receive 

J  the    twelve 

rulers,    the    receivers    of  wrath    shall   mysteries 

of  the  first 

come  to  lead  the  soul  of  that  man  out  mystery. 
of  the  body,  but  his  soul  shall  be  a  mighty  light- 
stream,  and  these  receivers  shall  be  in  terror 
before  the  light  of  that  soul.  That  soul  shall 
enter  into  the  height,  that  it  may  pass  through 
all  the  regions  of  the  light-emanations,  and  it 
shall  give  neither  explanation,  nor  apology,  nor 
symbol,  in  any  of  the  light-regions,  but  it  shall 
pass  through  all,  and  be  higher  than  them  all, 
so  that  it  shall  enter  and  reign  over  all  the 
regions  of  the  first  saviour. 

"  In  like  manner,  also,  he  who  shall  receive 
the  second  mystery  of  the  first  mystery,  and  the 
third,  and  the  fourth,  up  to  the  twelfth  mystery 
of  the  first  mystery,  (235)  when  the  time  cometh 
for  him  to  depart  from  the  body  of  the  matter 
of  the  rulers,  the  receivers  of  wrath  shall  ap- 
proach him,  to  conduct  his  soul  out  of  the  body 
of  matter  ;  and  those  souls  shall  become  mighty 
light-streams  in  the  hands  of  the  receivers  of 
wrath,  and  these  receivers  will  become  terror- 
stricken  before  the  light  of  those  souls,  they  will 


234  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

be  in  consternation,  they  will  sink  down  on  their 
faces ;  and  those  souls  shall  straightway  enter 
into  the  height,  that  they  may  be  carried  above 
all  the  regions  of  the  rulers  and  all  the  regions 
of  the  light-emanations ;  they  shall  give  neither 
explanation,  nor  apology,  in  any  region  whatever, 
nor  any  symbol,  but  they  shall  pass  through  all 
the  regions,  they  shall  enter  into  all  and  shall 
reign  over  all  the  regions  of  the  twelve  saviours, 
so  that  they  who  shall  have  received  the  second 
mystery  of  the  first  mystery,  shall  reign  over  all 
the  regions  of  the  second  saviour  in  the  inherit- 
ances of  light. 

"  In  like  manner,  also,  they  who  shall  have 
received  the  third  mystery  of  the  first  mystery, 
and  also  the  fourth,  the  fifth,  the  sixth,  up  to 
the  twelfth,  each  shall  be  king  over  all  the 
regions  of  the  saviour  of  which  he  shall  have 
received  the  mystery.  And  he  who  shall  have 
received,  after  the  others,  the  twelfth  mystery 
of  the  first  mystery,  that  is  to  say,  the  authentic 
mystery,  concerning  which  I  will  speak  with  you 
— (236)  he,  then,  who  shall  have  received  those 
twelve  mysteries  which  pertain  to  the  first  mys- 
tery, when  he  shall  depart  from  the  world,  shall 
pass  through  all  the  regions  of  the  rulers  and  all 
the  regions  of  the  light,  as  a  mighty  light-stream, 
and  he  also  shall  be  king  over  all  the  regions 
of  the  twelve  saviours.     [Such  souls,]  however, 


SECOND   BOOK.  235 

shall  not  be  equal  to  them  who  shall  have  re- 
ceived this  one  mystery  of  that  ineffable.  But 
he  who  shall  have  received  this  mystery  shall 
dwell  in  those  orders,  in  that  they  are  excellent, 
and  he  shall  dwell  in  the  orders  of  the  twelve 
saviours." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  finished 
speaking  these  words  unto  his  disciples,  Mary  ques- 
that  Mary  Magdalene  came  forward,  Jesus. 
and  kissed  the  feet  of  Jesus,  and  said  unto  him  : 
"  Master,  bear  with  me  and  be  not  wroth  with  me, 
if  I  question  thee ;  but  have  mercy  upon  us,  0 
Master,  and  reveal  unto  us  the  matter  on  which 
we  shall  question  thee.  Now,  therefore,  0 
Master,  how  is  it  that  the  first  mystery  hath 
twelve  mysteries,  whereas  that  ineffable  hath 
but  one  mystery  ?  " 

Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  her  :  "  Indeed, 
it  hath  but  one  mystery  ;  yet  that  of  the  three 
mystery  maketh  three  mysteries,  al-  ^five* 
though  it  is  only  one  mystery ;  but  mysterles- 
the  type  of  each  of  them  is  different.  It  also 
maketh  five  mysteries,  while  still  remaining  one  ; 
but  the  type  of  each  is  different,  so  that  these 
five  mysteries  are  equal  to  one  another  (237) 
in  the  mystery  of  kingship  in  the  inheritance  of 
light,  but  the  type  of  each  of  them  is  different, 
and  their  kingdom  is  higher  and  more  exalted 
than   all  the  kingdoms  of  the  series  of  twelve 


236  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

mysteries  of  the  first  mystery ;  but  they  are 
not  equal  in  the  kingdom  of  the  one  and  only 
mystery  of  the  first  mystery  in  the  kingdom  of 
light. 

"  In  like  manner,  also,  the  three  mysteries 
are  not  equal  in  the  kingdom  which  is  in  the 
light,  but  the  type  of  each  of  them  is  different, 
and  they  also  are  not  equal  in  the  kingdom  of 
that  one  and  only  mystery  of  the  first  mystery 
in  the  kingdom  of  light. 

"  Different,  moreover,  is  the  type  of  each  of 
these  three ;  and  the  types  of  the  configuration 
of  each  of  them  are  different  from  one  another. 

"  For  when  thou  shalt  have  accomplished  the 
Of  the  first  first   mystery    [of  these    three],    after 

of  the  three  . 

mysteries,  passing  through  the  other  [twelve],  if 
thou  shalt  establish  thyself,  and  accomplish  it 
properly  in  all  its  configurations,  then  dost  thou 
depart  from  thy  body  at  the  proper  time,  thou 
becomest  a  great  flame  of  light,  a  light-stream 
thou  passest  through  all  the  regions  of  the  rulers 
and  all  the  light-regions,  which  became  terror- 
stricken  before  such  a  soul,  until  it  shall  have 
come  into  the  region  of  its  kingdom. 

(238)  "  When  also  thou  shalt  have  properly 
Of  the  accomplished   the    second    mystery    of 

second  of         ,  i        n      ,  ,  •  n    • ,  n 

the  three  the  tirst  mystery,  in  all  its  conngura- 
mystenes.  ^ons — -j-]^  mari)  then,  who  shall  ac- 
complish its  mystery,  if  he  uttereth  the  mystery 


SECOND   BOOK.  237 

over  the  head  of  any  man  who  shall  be  on  the 
point  of  departing  out  of  the  body,  if  he  speaketh 
it  into  his  two  ears,  even  though  the  man  who 
is  on  the  point  of  departure  should  receive  the 
mystery  a  second  time,  and  though  he  should 
already  be  a  partaker  in  the  word  of  truth — 
amen,  I  say  unto  you,  when  that  man  shall 
depart  from  the  body  of  matter,  his  soul  shall 
become  a  great  light-stream,  it  shall  pass  through 
every  region  until  it  hath  come  into  the  king- 
dom of  that  mystery. 

"  But  if  that  man  hath  not  received  the  mys- 
tery, and  if  he  is  not  a  participator  in    0f  its  e.^~ 

J  x  x  cacy  with 

the  words  of  truth — when  he  who  per-   regard  to 

1  the  umn- 

formeth  that  mystery,  uttereth  those  itiated. 
mysteries  over  the  head  of  a  man  on  the  point  of 
departure  from  the  body,  [even]  of  him  who  hath 
not  received  the  mystery  of  light,  and  is  not  a 
participator  in  the  words  of  truth — amen,  I  say 
unto  you,  that  man,  when  he  shall  depart  from 
the  body,  shall  not  be  judged  in  any  region 
whatever,  he  shall  not  be  punished  in  any  region 
at  all,  the  fire  shall  not  touch  him  because  of  the 
great  mystery  of  that  ineffable,  which  is  with 
him. 

"  But  they  shall  make  great  haste  to  pass  him 
from  one  to  the  other  in  turn,  to  conduct  him 
throughout  the  regions  and  throughout  the 
orders,    (239)  until   he   be   brought  before   the 


238  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

virgin  of  light,  all  regions  being  terror-stricken 
before  the  mystery  and  the  symbol  of  the  king- 
dom of  that  ineffable,  which  is  with  him. 

"  And  when  he  shall  have  been  brought  unto 
the  virgin  of  light,  the  virgin  of  light  will  see 
the  symbol  of  the  mystery  of  the  kingdom  of 
that  ineffable  which  shall  be  with  him ;  the 
virgin  of  light  will  be  amazed  and  will  prove 
him,  but  he  will  not  be  brought  unto  the  light 
until  he  have  performed  the  whole  polity  of  the 
light  of  that  mystery,  that  is  to  say,  the  strict 
observance  of  the  renunciation  of  the  world  and 
also  of  all  the  matter  that  is  therein. 

"  The  virgin  of  light  will  seal  him  with  an 
excellent  seal,  which  is  this  ....  And  no 
matter  in  what  month  he  departed  from  the 
body  of  matter,  she  will  have  him  sent  into  a 
righteous  body,  which  shall  find  the  divinity  of 
truth  and  the  higher  mysteries,  that  he  may 
receive  them  as  his  inheritance  and  that  he  may 
receive  the  light  for  ever,  that  is  to  say,  the 
boon  of  the  second  mystery  of  the  first  mystery 
of  that  ineffable. 

"  And  the  man  who  shall  perform  this  third 

o? the  three  mystery  °f  tnat  ineffable,  not  only 
mysteries,  when  he  [himself]  shall  have  departed 
from  the  body,  shall  he  inherit  the  kingdom 
of  the  mystery ;  but  when  he  shall  complete 
that  mystery,  (240)  and  when  he  shall  perform 


SECOND   BOOK.  239 

it  with  all  its  configurations,  that  is  to  say, 
when  he  shall  have  created  that  mystery  for 
himself,  and  shall  have  properly  accomplished 
it,  [then]  when  he  shall  have  pronounced  the 
name  of  that  mystery  over  a  man,  departing 
from  the   body  with  a  knowledge   of  0f  its  e^' 

J  °  cacy  with 

that  mystery,  such  an  one,  whether  he   regard  to 

J  J  the  unin- 

have  delayed  or  have  not  delayed,  itiated. 
[even  if]  he  pass  through  the  dire  punishments 
of  the  rulers,  their  harsh  judgments  and  their 
various  fires — amen,  I  say  unto  you,  on  depart- 
ing from  the  body,  when  this  mystery  shall 
have  been  uttered  over  him,  they  shall  make 
great  haste  to  pass  him  on  and  hand  him  from 
one  to  the  other,  until  he  be  brought  to  the 
virgin  of  light,  and  the  virgin  of  light  shall  seal 
him  with  an  excellent  seal,  which  is  this  .  .  .  : 
And  no  matter  in  what  month  he  departed  from 
the  body,  she  will  have  him  sent  into  a  righte- 
ous body,  which  shall  find  the  divinity  of  truth 
and  the  higher  mystery,  in  order  that  he  may 
inherit  the  kingdom  of  light.  This,  then,  is  the 
boon  of  the  third  mystery  of  that  ineffable. 

"  Now,   therefore,    whosoever   shall   have    re- 
ceived one  of  the  five  mysteries  of  that   Further 

concerning 

ineffable,  when  he  departeth  from  the   the  three 
body,  he  shall  inherit  up  to  the  region   mysteries. 
of  that   mystery.     The    kingdom    of    the   five 
mysteries  is  higher   than  the   kingdom   of  the 


240  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

twelve  mysteries  of  the  first  mystery,  and  higher 
than  every  mystery  below  them.  (241)  And 
the  five  mysteries  of  that  ineffable  are  equal  to 
one  another  in  their  own  kingdom,  but  they  are 
not  equal  to  the  three  mysteries  of  that  ineffable. 

"  And  he  that  receiveth  one  of  these  three 
mysteries  of  that  ineffable,  on  departing  from 
the  body  shall  inherit  up  to  the  kingdom  of 
that  mystery.  And  these  three  mysteries  are 
equal  to  one  another  in  the  kingdom,  and  are 
higher  than  the  five  mysteries  of  the  ineffable 
in  the  kingdom,  and  more  exalted  than  them ; 
but  they  are  not  equal  to  the  one  and  only  mys- 
tery of  that  ineffable. 

"  He  that  receiveth  also  the  one  and  only 
Of  the  one  mystery  of  that  ineffable,  shall  inherit 
mystery.  the  region  of  the  whole  kingdom  ac- 
cording to  its  glory  of  which  I  have  already 
spoken  unto  you  on  another  occasion.  Whoso- 
ever shall  receive  the  mystery  which  is  in  the 
whole  space  of  that  ineffable,  and  also  all  the 
other  sweet  mysteries  which  are  in  the  limbs  of 
that  ineffable,  of  which  I  have  not  yet  spoken 
unto  you,  both  concerning  their  emanation,  and 
the  manner  in  which  they  are  constituted,  and 
the  type  of  each  of  them  as  it  is — I  have  not 
told  you  why  it  is  called  the  ineffable,  or  why 
it  lies  stretched  out  with  all  its  limbs,  (242)  or 
how  many  limbs  there  are  therein,  or  what  are 


SECOND   BOOK.  241 

all  its  regulations,  nor  will  I  say  this  unto  you 
immediately,  but  only  when  I  come  to  speak  of 
the  emanation  of  the  [whole]  pleroma ;  [then] 
will  I  tell  you  every  detail,  one  by  one,  for  it 
hath  emanated  together  with  its  own  word,  just 
as  it  is  in  itself,  together  with  the  sum  total 
of  all  its  limbs  which  belong  to  the  regulation 
of  the  one  and  only  one,  the  changeless  god  of 
truth — in  the  region,  therefore,  of  which  each 
shall  receive  the  mystery  in  the  space  of  that 
ineffable,  there  shall  he  inherit  up  to  the. region 
which  he  shall  have  received,  and  also  [as  far  as] 
the  whole  region  of  the  space  of  that  ineffable  ; 
nor  shall  he  give  explanation  throughout  the 
regions,  nor  apology,  nor  symbol,  for  [such  souls] 
are  without  symbol  and  have  no  receivers,  but 
they  shall  pass  through  all  the  regions  until 
they  arrive  at  the  region  of  the  kingdom  of  the 
mystery  which  they  have  received. 

"  In  like  manner  also,  they  who  shall  receive  the 
mystery  of  the  second  space,  they  [also]   of  the  mys- 
require neither  explanation,  nor  apology,    llr/0I°i  the 
nor  symbol,  for  they  have  no  symbol  in    space* 
that  world  ;  it  is  the  space  of  the  first  mystery. 

"  But  of  those  of  the  third  space  towards  the 
exterior,  that  is  to  say,  the  third  space  pfthemys- 
from  the  interior,   (243)  every  region   third  space, 

v  '  J  &  the  first 

in  this   space    hath    its    receivers,    its    from  with- 

out. 

explanations,  its  apologies,  and  its  symbols,  [all 

16 


242  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

of]  which  I  will  tell  you  when  I  come  to  speak 
of  this  mystery,  that  is  to  say  when  I  shall 
have  finished  explaining  the  emanation  of  the 
pleroma. 

"  But  when  the  pleroma  is  completed,  that 
Of  the  reign  *s  to  say>  when  the  number  of  per- 
sand  y^ars  ^ec^  souls  shall  be  reached,  and  the 
of  the  light.  mvstery  shall  be  accomplished  accord- 
ing to  which  the  pleroma  is  the  pleroma,  I  shall 
pass  a  thousand  years,  according  to  the  years 
of  the  light,  reigning  over  all  the  emanations 
of  the  light  and  the  whole  number  of  perfect 
souls  who  shall  have  received  all  the  mys- 
teries." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  finished 
speaking  these  words  unto  his  disciples,  that 
Mary  Magdalene  came  forward  and  said  : 
"  Master,  how  many  years  in  years  of  the  world 
is  a  year  of  the  light  ?  " 

Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  :  "A  day 
what  is  a   of  the  light  is  a  thousand  years  in  the 

year  of  the  .  . 

light.  world,   so  that   thirty-six   myriads   of 

years  and  a  half  myriad  of  years  of  the  world 
make  a  single  year  of  the  light. 

"  I  shall,  therefore,  pass  a  thousand  years 
of  the  light  reigning  in  the  midst  of  the  last 
supporter  over  all  the  emanations  of  the  light, 
over  the  total  number  of  the  souls  who  shall  have 
received  the  mysteries  of  the  light. 


SECOND   BOOK.  243 

"  And  ye,  my  disciples,  and  whosoever  shall 
have  received  the  mystery  of  that  in-  0f  them  of 
effable,  (244)  shall  rest  with  me,  on  spaced  the 
my  right  hand  and  on  my  left,  reign-  thegthou-°f 
ing  with  me  in  my  kingdom.  sand  years* 

"  And  they  also  who  shall  receive  the  three 
mysteries  of  the  five  mysteries  of  that  ineffable, 
shall  be  fellow-kings  with  you,  in  the  kingdom 
of  light ;  they  shall  not  be  equal  with  you,  with 
you  and  with  them  who  shall  have  received  the 
[one  and  only]  mystery  of  that  ineffable,  but 
they  shall  be  after  you,  and  yet  shall  be 
kings. 

"  And  they  who  shall  have  received  the  five 
mysteries  of  that  ineffable,  shall  be  after  [them 
of]  the  three  mysteries,  and  yet  shall  be  kings. 

"  And  they  who  shall  have  received  the 
twelve  mysteries  of  the  first  mystery,  shall 
also  be  after  [them  of]  the  five  mysteries  of 
that  ineffable,  and  they  shall  be  kings  also, 
according  to  the  order  of  each  one  of  them. 

"  And  they  who  shall  have  received  the  mys- 
tery in  all  the  regions  of  the  space  of  that  in- 
effable, shall  also  be  kings,  but  they  shall  be 
after  those  who  shall  have  received  the  mystery 
of  the  first  mystery,  distributed  according  to 
the  glory  of  each  of  them,  so  that  they  who 
shall  have  received  a  higher  mystery,  shall  be  in 
the  higher  regions,   and    they   who  shall  have 


244  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

received  a  lower  mystery  shall  be  in  a  lower 
region,  reigning  in  the  light  of  my  kingdom. 

"  These  only  constitute  the  inheritance  of  the 
kingdom  of  the  first  space  of  that  ineffable. 

(245)  "  They  also  who  shall  have  received  all 
Of  them  of   fae    mvsteries    of    the    second    space, 

the  second  J  *■ 

space.  which  is  the   space   of  the  first  mys- 

tery, shall  be  also  in  the  light  of  my  kingdom, 
distributed  according  to  the  glory  of  each  of 
them,  and  each  shall  be  in  the  mystery  which 
he  shall  have  received  ;  and  they  who  shall  have 
received  a  higher  mystery,  shall  be  in  the  higher 
regions,  and  they  who  shall  have  received  a 
lower  mystery,  shall  be  in  the  lower  regions  in 
my  kingdom  of  light. 

"  This  is  the  inheritance  of  the  second  king, 
for  them  who  shall  have  received  the  mystery  of 
the  second  space  of  the  first  mystery. 

"  They  also  who  shall  receive  all  the  mysteries 
Of  them  of   of  the  second  space  [of  the  first  mys- 

the  third 

space,  the  teryj,  which  is  the  first  space  from  the 
without.  exterior,  they  also  shall  be  after  the 
second  king,  distributed  also  in  the  light  of  my 
kingdom,  according  to  the  glory  of  each  of  them, 
each  being  in  the  region  of  which  he  shall  have 
received  the  mystery,  so  that  they  who  shall 
have  received  higher  mysteries,  shall  be  in 
higher  regions,  and  they  who  shall  have  re- 
ceived lower  mysteries,  shall  be  in  lower  regions. 


SECOND   BOOK.  245 

"  These  are  the  three  inheritances  of  the  king- 
dom of  light. 

"  Now  the  mysteries  of  these  three  inherit- 
ances of  light  are  exceedingly  numerous.  Ye 
shall  find  them  in  the  two  great  Books  of  Ieou  ; 
but  I  will  give  you  and  tell  you  the  great 
mysteries  of  each  inheritance,  (246)  those  which 
are  higher  than  all  their  regions,  that  is  to  say, 
those  which  are  chief  over  all  their  regions  and 
orders,  those  which  can  bring  the  whole  human 
race  into  the  higher  regions,  from  space  to  space 
of  the  inheritance. 

"  But  as  for  the  rest  of  the  lower  mysteries, 
ye  have  no  need  thereof,  but  ye  shall   Of  the 

n      -.      !  .       \  Books  of 

tind  them  in  the  two   .Books  01  leou,    ieou. 
which  Enoch  wrote  when  I  spoke  with  him  from 
the  tree  of  knowledge,  and  from  the  tree  of  life, 
which  were  in  the  Paradise  of  Adam. 

"Now,  therefore,  when  I  shall  have  finished 
explaining  the  whole  of  the  emanation,  I  will 
give  you  and  tell  you  the  great  mysteries  of  the 
three  inheritances  of  my  kingdom,  those  which 
are  chief  of  the  mysteries  which  I  will  give  you. 
I  will  tell  them  unto  you  in  all  their  configura- 
tions, in  all  their  types,  and  in  all  their  numbers, 
together  with  the  seals  of  the  third  space,  which 
is  the  first  space  from  the  exterior  ;  and  I  will 
tell  you  the  explanations,  apologies,  and  symbols 
of  that  space. 


246  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

"As  to  the  second  space  towards  the  interior, 
they  [who  reach  thereto]  have  no  need  either  of 
explanation,  or  apology,  or  symbol,  or  number, 
or  seal ;  but  only  of  types  and  configurations." 

(247)  When  the  saviour  had  finished  saying 
these  words  unto  his  disciples,  Andrew  came 
forward  and  said  :  "  Master,  be  not  wroth  with 
me,  but  have  mercy  upon  me,  and  reveal  unto 
me  the  mystery  of  the  word  concerning  which  I 
shall  question  thee,  for  it  hath  been  hard  for  me, 
and  I  have  not  understood  it." 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  him : 
"Ask  concerning  that  which  thou  desirest  to 
question  and  I  will  reveal  it  unto  thee  face  to 
face  without  parable." 

And  Andrew  answered  and  said  :  "  I  am  in 
Andrew  great  wonderment  and  amazement,  how 
Jesus.  men    of  this  world  and  in  bodies  of 

matter  when  they  depart  from  this  world,  shall 
pass  through  all  those  firmaments,  and  those 
rulers,  all  lords,  all  gods,  all  those  great  invisibles, 
and  all  those  of  the  region  of  them  of  the  midst, 
and  those  of  the  whole  region  of  them  that  are 
on  the  right,  and  all  the  great  emanations  of 
them  that  are  on  the  right,  so  that  they  pass 
through  them  and  inherit  the  kingdom  of  light. 
This  matter,  then,  is  hard  for  me." 

When  Andrew  had  said  these  words,  the  spirit 
of  the  saviour  was  moved  in  him,  and  he  cried 


SECOND   BOOK.  247 

out  and    said :    "  How    long   shall   I   bear  with 
you,  how  long  shall  I  suffer  you  ?     Do   That  ail 
ye  still  not  know  and  are  ye  ignorant  ?   ^tentiaiiy 
Know  ye   not,  and  do  ye  not  under-    allPowers- 
stand  that  ye  are  all  angels,  all  archangels,  gods 
and  lords,  all  rulers,   all  the  great  invisibles,  all 
those    of    the    midst,     (248)     those    of    every 
region  of  them  that  are  on  the  right,   all   the 
great  ones  of  the   emanations   of  the  light  with 
all  their  glory  ;  that  ye  are  all,  of  yourselves  and 
in  yourselves  in  turn,   from   one   mass  and  one 
matter,  and  one   substance  ;  ye  are  all  from  the 
same  mixture. 

"  And  by  the  commandment  of  the  first  mys- 
tery, the  mixture  is  constrained  until  all  the 
great  light-emanations  with  all  their  glory  are 
purified,  until  they  are  cleansed  from  the  mixture, 
till  they  are  purified  not  of  themselves,  but  of 
necessity,  according  to  the  regulation  of  that 
one  and  only  ineffable. 

"  They  indeed  have  not  at  all  [in  reality]  under- 
gone sufferings,  nor  changes  of  region,  nor  have 
they  at  all  torn  themselves  asunder,  nor  poured 
themselves  into  different  bodies,  nor  have  they 
been  in  any  affliction. 

"  Whereas  ye  others,  ye  are  the  purgations  of 
the  treasure,  ye  are  the  purgations  of  As  to  ^ow 
the  region  of  them  that  are  on  the  f^tte* 
right,  ye  are  the  purgations  of  all  the   Powers- 


248  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

invisibles  and  of  all  the  rulers ;  in  a  word,  ye 
are  the  purgations  of  all  of  them.  And  ye  have 
been  in  great  afflictions  and  great  tribulations, 
in  your  pourings  into  different  bodies  of  this 
world.  (249)  And  after  all  these  afflictions 
which  came  from  yourselves,  ye  have  struggled 
and  fought,  renouncing  the  whole  world  and  all 
the  matter  that  is  in  it ;  and  ye  have  not  held  your 
hands  in  the  fight,  until  ye  found  all  the  mys- 
teries of  the  kingdom  of  light,  which  have  puri- 
fied you,  and  transformed  you  into  refined  light, 
most  pure,  and  ye  have  become  pure  light  itself. 

"  For  which  cause  have  I  said  unto  you  afore- 
time, '  Seek,  that  ye  may  find.'  I  said,  there- 
fore, unto  you,  '  Ye  shall  seek  out  the  mysteries 
of  light,  which  purify  the  body  of  matter,  and 
they  will  transform  you  into  light  of  exceeding 
great  purity.' 

"  Amen,  I  say  unto  you,  the  race  of  human 
Of  the  pun-   kind  is  0f  matter.     I  tore  myself  asun- 

fying  mys-  J 

teries.  ^ei^  j   brought    unto    them    the  mys- 

teries of  light,  to  purify  them,  for  they  are  the 
purgations  of  all  the  matter  of  their  matter ; 
otherwise,  no  soul  in  the  whole  of  human  kind 
would  have  been  saved ;  nor  could  it  have  in- 
herited the  kingdom  of  light,  unless  I  had 
brought  unto  them  the  purifying  mysteries. 

"  Now  the  light-emanations  have  nojoeed  of 
any  mystery,  for  they  are  pure  ;  but  the  human 


SECOND   BOOK.  249 

race  hath  need  of  purification,  for  all  men  are 
purgations  of  matter.  For  this  cause  I  said 
unto  you  aforetime,  '  They  that  are  whole,  need 
no  physician,  but  they  that  are  sick ' ;  (250) 
that  is  to  say,  they  that  are  of  the  light  have 
no  need  of  the  mysteries,  for  they  are  pure 
light-powers,  but  the  human  race  hath  need  of 
them,  for  [men]  are  purgations  of  matter. 

"  For  this  cause,  therefore,  preach  ye  to  the 
whole  human  race,  saying,  '  Cease  not  to  seek 
day  and  night,  until  ye  have  found  the  purify- 
ing mysteries ' ;  and  say  unto  them,  '  Renounce 
the  whole  world,  and  all  the  matter  therein,'  for 
he  who  buyeth  and  selleth  in  this  world,  he  who 
eateth  and  drinketh  of  his  own  matter,  who  liveth 
in  his  own  cares  and  in  all  his  own  associations, 
amasses  ever  fresh  matter  from  his  matter,  in 
that  the  whole  world,  and  all  that  is  therein, 
and  all  its  associations,  are  exceedingly  material 
purgations,  and  they  shall  make  enquiry  of 
every  one  concerning  his  purity. 

"  For  which  reason,  then,  I  said  to  you  afore- 
time, '  Eenounce  the  whole  world  and  all  the 
matter  therein,'  that  ye  may  not  add  other 
matter  to  the  matter  which  is  already  in  you. 
Therefore,  preach  ye  this  to  the  whole  human 
race,  saying,  '  Renounce  the  whole  world  and  all 
its  associations,  (251)  that  ye  may  not  add  fresh 
matter  to  the  matter  which  is  already  in  you ' ; 


250  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

and  say  unto  them,  '  Cease  not  to  seek  day  and 
night,  and  stay  not  your  hands  until  ye  have 
found  the  purifying  mysteries  which  shall 
cleanse  you,  and  will  transform  you  into  pure 
light,  that  ye  may  enter  into  the  height  and 
inherit  the  light  of  my  kingdom.' 

"Now,   therefore,   thou,   0    Andrew,  and   all 
That  ail        thy  brethren  and  co-disciples,  because 

who  are 

purified        of    your    renunciations,   and    all     the 

shall  be 

saved.  sufferings    which     ye     have    endured 

in  every  region,  because  of  your  repourings 
into  different  bodies,  and  because  of  all  your 
tribulations,  ye  have,  after  all,  received  the 
purifying  mysteries,  and  are  become  pure  light 
exceedingly  refined.  For  this  cause,  therefore, 
ye  shall  enter  into  the  height,  ye  shall  come  to 
the  interior  of  all  the  regions  of  all  these  great 
emanations  of  the  light,  ye  shall  be  kings  in 
the  kingdom  of  light  for  ever.  This  is  the 
explanation  of  the  words  on  which  ye  question 
me. 

"  Now,   therefore,   Andrew,   still  art  thou  in 
That  finally   unbelief  and  ignorance  ;  but  when  ye 

they  shall 

be  higher  shall  have  departed  from  your  bodies, 
powers.  and  shall  have  entered  into  the  height, 
and  arrived  at  the  region  of  the  rulers,  all  the 
rulers  shall  be  ashamed  before  you,  in  that  ye 
are  the  purgations  of  their  matter  and  yet  have 
been   transformed   into   purer  light  than  all   of 


SECOND   BOOK.  251 

them.  And  when  ye  shall  have  come  into  the 
region  of  the  great  invisible,  (252)  and  into 
the  region  of  them  of  the  midst,  of  them  of  the 
right,  and  into  the  regions  of  all  those  great 
emanations  of  the  light,  ye  shall  receive  glory 
in  the  presence  of  all  of  them,  in  that  ye  are 
the  purgations  of  their  matter  and  are  trans- 
formed into  light  purer  than  them  all.  And 
all  the  regions  shall  sing  a  song  before  you, 
until  ye  have  entered  into  the  region  of  the 
kingdom." 

When  the  saviour  had  said  these  things, 
Andrew    knew    clearly,   and  not   only   Jesus 

,       1  pardoneth 

he  but  also  all  the  other  disciples,  that   the  ignor- 

i  i         i  n  i»         t  ance  of 

they  should  inherit  the  kingdom  of  Andrew. 
light.  Then  they  all  cast  themselves  on  the 
ground,  side  by  side,  at  Jesus'  feet,  they  cried 
aloud,  and  wept,  and  besought  the  saviour, 
saying  :  "  Master,  forgive  our  brother  the  sin 
of  ignorance." 

And  the  saviour  answered  and  said  :  "I 
forgive  and  will  forgive;  for  this  cause  hath 
the  first  mystery  sent  me,  that  1  may  forgive 
every  one  his  sins." 


EXTRACT  FROM  THE  BOOKS  OF  THE 

SAVIOUR. 

"  And  they  that   are   worthy  of  the   mysteries 
Of  the  which  lie  in  that  ineffable,  that  is  to 

Sthe*618  sa7'  tney  tnat  nave  not  emanated — 
ineffable.       they   are    prior  to   the   first   mystery. 

To  use  a  similitude  and  correspondence  of  speech 
that  ye  may  understand,  they  are  the  members 
of  that  ineffable  ;  and  each  is  according  to  the  dig- 
nity of  its  glory,  the  head  according  to  the  dignity 
of  the  head,  the  eye  according  to  the  dignity  of 
the  eye,  (253)  the  ear  according  to  the  dignity  of 
the  ear,  and  the  rest  of  the  members  [in  like 
fashion]  ;  so  that  it  is  manifest  that  there  are  many 
members  but  only  one  body.  Of  this  I  speak  to 
you  in  a  paradigm,  a  correspondence,  and  a  simili- 
tude, but  not  in  the  reality  of  its  configuration  ; 
I  have  not  revealed  the  [whole]  word  in  truth. 

"  But    the    mystery    of    that    ineffable    and 
Jesus,  every    member  which   is   in    it — that 

the  great  . 

initiator,  is  to  sav,  they  that  dwell  in  the 
mysteries,  mystery  of  that  ineffable,  and  they 
that  dwell  in  [that  ineffable] — and  also  the 
three  spaces  which  follow  after  them,  mystery 
by  mystery,  in  truth  and  verity,  all  that  [is 
myself].     I  am  the  treasure  of  all  of  them,  apart 


THE    BOOKS   OP   THE    SAVIOUR.  253 

from  which  there  is  no  treasure,  apart  from 
which  there  is  no  individuality  in  the  world  ; 
but  there  are  other  words  [besides  the  word  of 
this  world],  other  mysteries,  other  regions. 

"  Now,  therefore,  blessed  is  he  [among  men] 
who  hath  found  the  mysteries  of  the    Of  the 

dignity 

space  towards  the  exterior.     He  is  a   of  them 

who  are 

god,  who  hath  found  the  words  of  the   initiated 

.  into  the 

mysteries  ol  the  second  space  in  the  mysteries. 
midst.  He  is  a  saviour  and  free  of  every 
space,  who  hath  found  the  words  of  the 
mysteries,  the  words  of  the  third  space  towards 
the  interior.  He  is  the  very  pleroma  itself — 
the  object  of  desire  of  all  who  are  in  that  third 
space — who  hath  found  the  mystery  (254)  in 
which  they  [all]  are  and  in  which  they  are  [all] 
set.  Wherefore  is  he  equal  to  [all  of  them]. 
He  hath  found  also  the  words  of  the  mysteries, 
which  I  have  written  down  for  you  by  a  simili- 
tude, namely  the  members  of  the  ineffable. 
Amen,  I  say  unto  you,  he  who  hath  found  the 
words  of  these  mysteries  in  the  truth  of  God, 
that  man  is  chief  in  the  truth,  he  is  its  peer, 
because  of  these  words  and  mysteries.  The 
pleroma  verily  oweth  its  being  to  that  mystery. 
For  which  cause,  he  who  hath  found  the  words 
of  these  mysteries,  is  equal  to  the  chief  [of  all]. 
It  is  the  gnosis  of  the  gnosis  of  the  ineffable, 
concerning  which  I  speak  unto  you  this  day." 


THE  SECOND  BOOK  OF   PISTIS  SOPHIA. 

(Continued.) 

Jesus  continued  in  his  conversation  and  said 
0fthe  unto    his    disciples  :    "  When    I    shall 

of  Ih?1118  nave  gone  unto  the  light,  preach  unto 
disciples.  ^e  wno}e  world  and  say  unto  them, 
'  Cease  not  day  and  night  to  seek  until  ye  have 
found  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom  of  light, 
which  will  purify  you  and  transform  you  into 
pure  light,  that  ye  may  be  brought  to  the 
kingdom  of  light.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  the  whole  world 
What  men    and  all  the  matter  that   is  in  it,   all 

should  .  .     .  i        n      i 

avoid.  its  cares,  all  its  sms,  m  a  word,  all  the 

associations  that  are  in  it,  (255)  that  ye  may 
be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of  light,  and  be 
saved  from  all  the  torments  which  are  in  the 
judgments.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  murmuring, 
that  ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of 
light,  and  be  saved  from  the  fire  of  the  dog- 
faced  one.' 

"  Say    unto    them,    *  Renounce    superstition, 


SECOND   BOOK.  255 

that    ye    may    escape    the    judgment    of    that 
dog-faced  one.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  all  spells,  that 
ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of  light, 
and  escape  the  torments  of  Ariel.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  calumny,  that 
ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of  light,  and 
escape  the  rivers  of  fire  of  the  dog-faced  one.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  false  witness, 
that  ye  may  become  worthy  of  the  mysteries 
of  light,  and  escape,  and  be  preserved  from  the 
rivers  of  fire  of  the  dog-faced  one.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  boasting  and 
pride,  that  ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries 
of  light,  and  escape  the  pits  of  fire  of  Ariel.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  gluttony,  that 
ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of  light,  and 
escape  the  judgments  of  Amenti.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  garrulity,  that 
ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of  light, 
and  preserved  from  the  fires  of  Amenti.' 

(256)  "  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  evil 
caresses,  that  ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries 
of  light,  and  preserved  from  the  torments  which 
are  in  Amenti.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  the  desires  of 
avarice,  that  ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries 
of  light,  and  escape  from  the  rivers  of  fire  of 
that  dog- faced  one.' 


256  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  the  loves  of  the 
world,  that  ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries 
of  light,  and  escape  from  the  coats  of  pitch  and 
fire  of  the  dog-faced  one.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  robbery,  that 
ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of  light, 
and  escape  the  rivers  of  fire  of  Ariel.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  evil  words,  that 
ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of  light,  and 
saved  from  the  torments  of  the  rivers  of  smoke.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  wickedness, 
that  ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of 
light,  and  saved  from  the  seas  of  fire  of  Ariel.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  pitilessness,  that 
ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of  light, 
and  saved  from  the  judgments  of  the  dragon- 
faced  one.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  wrath,  that  ye 
may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of  light,  and 
saved  from  the  rivers  of  smoke  of  the  dragon- 
faced.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  reviling,  that 
ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of  light, 
and  saved  from  the  fire  of  the  seas  of  the 
dragon-faced.' 

(257)  "  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  pillage, 
that  ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of 
light,  and  saved  from  the  seething  seas  of  the 
dragon- faced.' 


SECOND   BOOK.  257 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  robbery,  that 
ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of  light, 
and  saved  from  Ialdabaoth.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Eenounce  slandering,  that 
ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of  light,  and 
saved  from  the  rivers  of  fire  of  that  lion-faced/ 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  quarrelling  and 
broiling,  that  ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries 
of  light,  and  saved  from  the  seething  rivers  of 
Ialdabaoth.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  all  ignorance, 
that  ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of 
light,  and  saved  from  the  workmen  of  Ialda- 
baoth and  the  fires  of  his  seas.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  villainy,  that 
ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of  light,  and 
saved  from  all  the  demons  of  Ialdabaoth  and  all 
his  judgments.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  sloth,  that  ye 
may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of  light,  and 
saved  from  the  seething  seas  of  pitch  of  Ialda- 
baoth.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  adultery,  that 
ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of  the  king- 
dom of  light,  and  saved  from  the  seas  of  sulphur 
and  pitch  of  the  lion-faced.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  murder,  that 
ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of  light, 
^and  saved  from   the  crocodile-faced  ruler,  who 

17 


258  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

dwelleth  in  ice,  (258)  the  first  creation  of  the 
outer  darkness.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  hardness  of 
heart,  and  impiety,  that  ye  may  be  worthy  of 
the  mysteries  of  light,  and  saved  from  the 
rulers  of  the  outer  darkness.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  atheism,  that 
ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of  light,  and 
saved  from  the  weeping  and  gnashing  of  teeth.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  [magic]  potions, 
that  ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of 
light,  and  saved  from  the  great  frost  and  hail 
of  the  outer  darkness.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  blasphemy,  that 
ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of  light,  and 
saved  from  the  great  dragon  of  the  outer  dark- 
ness.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  the  doctrines  of 
error,  that  ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries 
of  light,  and  saved  from  all  the  punishments 
of  the  great  dragon  of  the  outer  darkness.' 

"  Say  unto  them  who  teach  the  doctrines  of 
error,  and  to  them  who  are  taught  by  them, 
'  Woe  unto  you,  for  if  ye  repent  not,  and 
abandon  not  your  errors,  ye  shall  come  into 
the  torments  of  the  great  dragon  of  the  in- 
exorable outer  darkness,  and  ye  shall  not  be 
set  free  from  the  world  for  the  eternity,  ye 
shall  be  without  existence  until  the  end.' 


SECOND   BOOK.  259 

(259)  "  Say  unto  them  that  abandon  the 
doctrines  of  truth  of  the  first  mystery,  '  Woe 
unto  you,  for  your  torment  shall  be  worse  than 
that  of  all  men,  for  ye  shall  dwell  in  the  great 
ice,  and  frost,  and  hail,  in  the  midst  of  the 
dragon  and  the  outer  darkness,  and  ye  shall  not 
be  set  free  from  the  world  henceforth  for  the 
eternity,  ye  shall  be  frozen  up  in  that  region, 
and  in  the  ascension  of  the  pleroma.  ye  shall 
be  lost,  ye  shall  be  non-existent  for  the  eternity/ 

"  Say  also  unto  the  men  of  the  world,  '  Be 
diligent,   that    ye     may     receive     the   what  men 

.  .  .  should 

mysteries  of  light,  and  enter  into  the   practise, 
height  of  the  kingdom  of  light.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Be  ye  loving  unto  men, 
that  ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of 
light,  and  enter  into  the  height,  into  the  king- 
dom of  light.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Be  ye  gentle,  that  ye 
may  receive  the  mysteries  of  light,  and  enter 
into  the  height,  into  the  kingdom  of  the  light.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Be  ye  peacemakers,  that 
ye  may  receive  the  mysteries  of  light,  and 
enter  into  the  height,  into  the  kingdom  of 
light.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Be  ye  merciful,  that  ye 
may  receive  the  mysteries  of  light,  and  enter 
into  the  height,  into  the  kingdom  of  light.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Be  ye  compassionate,  that 


260  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

ye  may  receive  the  mysteries  of  light,  and 
enter  into  the  height,  into  the  kingdom  of 
light.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Minister  nnto  the  poor  and 
sick  and  afflicted,  (260)  that  ye  may  receive 
the  mysteries  of  light,  and  enter  into  the  height, 
into  the  kingdom  of  light.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Be  ye  loving  unto  God, 
that  ye  may  receive  the  mysteries  of  light,  and 
enter  into  the  height,  into  the  kingdom  of  light.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Be  ye  righteous,  that  ye 
may  receive  the  mysteries i  of  Tight,  and  enter 
into  the  height,  into  the  kingdom  of  light.' 

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Kenounce  everything,  that 
ye  may  receive  the  mysteries  of  light,  and  enter 
into  the  height,  into  the  kingdom  of  light.' 

"  These  are  all  the  boundary  marks  of  the 
paths  of  them  that  are  worthy  of  the  mysteries 
of  light. 

"  Unto  them,  therefore,  who  shall  have  made 
Unto  such     this  renunciation,  give  ye  the  mysteries 

the  mys-  , 

teries  of        of  light ;    hide  them   not    from   them 

light  are  to 

be  given.  at  all.  Should  they  have  been 
sinners,  should  they  have  been  in  all  the  sins 
and  all  the  iniquities  of  the  world,  of  which  I 
have  spoken  unto  you,  nevertheless,  if  they  turn 
themselves,  and  repent,  and  have  made  the 
renunciation  which  I  have  just  described  unto 
you,   give  ye  unto  them  the  mysteries   of  the 


SECOND  BOOK.  261 

kingdom  of  light ;  hide  them  not  from  them  at 
all. 

"It   is  because  of   sin  that  I    have   brought 
these  mysteries  into  the  world,  for  the   p1?  m?s" 

J  teries  are 

remission  of  all  the  sins  which    they   fo?there- 

J      mission  of 

have  committed  from  the  beginning.  sins- 
Wherefore  have  I  said  unto  you  aforetime,  '  I 
came  not  to  call  the  righteous.'  (261)  Now, 
therefore,  I  have  brought  the  mysteries  that  the 
sins  of  all  men  may  be  remitted,  and  they  be 
brought  into  the  kingdom  of  light.  For  these 
mysteries  are  the  boons  of  the  first  mystery  for 
the  destruction  of  the  sins  and  iniquities  of 
all  sinners." 

It    came  to   pass,    when   Jesus    had    finished 
speaking    these    wTords   unto  his   dis-    Mary  asam 

°  questioneth 

ciples,    that    Mary    came  forward  and    Jesus. 

said  to  the  saviour  :  "  Master,  surely,  then,  the 

righteous  perfect  in  all  righteousness,  the  man 

in  whom  there  is  no  sin  at  all,  such  a  man  will 

not  be  chastised  in  the  torments  and  judgments  ? 

Will  they  not  surely  bring  him  into  the  kingdom 

of  the  heavens  ?  " 

The  saviour  answered  and   said  unto  Mary  : 

"  A  righteous  man  who  is  perfect  in  all   Of  ?he  •so1ul 
&  r  of  the  nght- 

righteousness,  who  hath  committed  no   eous  man 

°  who  is  not 

sin  at  any  time,  should  such  a  one  not   initiated, 

when  it 

have   received   the   mystery   of  light,    passeth 

from  the 

when  the  time  cometh  for  him  to  pass   body. 


262  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

out  of  the  body,  the  receivers  of  light  of  the  one 
great  triple  power,  who  is  the  great  one  among 
them,  shall  immediately  rescue  the  soul  of  that 
man  from  the  hands  of  the  receivers  of  wrath. 
Three  days  shall  they  journey  round  with  it  in 
all  the  creatures  of  the  world,  and  after  the  three 
days  they  shall  bring  it  from  above  into  chaos, 
to  pass  it  through  the  torments  of  the  judgments, 
that  they  may  instruct  it  in  the  torments.  (262) 
The  tires  of  chaos,  however,  will  not  trouble  it 
greatly  ;  but  they  will  trouble  it  somewhat  for  a 
short  space. 

"  Quickly  and  with  haste  will  they  take  pity 
on  it,  to  bring  it  forth  from  chaos,  and  set  it  in 
the  way  of  the  midst  of  the  rulers  ;  they  shall 
not  torment  it  with  their  harsh  judgments,  but 
the  fire  of  their  regions  shall  trouble  it  some- 
what. [So  that]  though  they  shall  bring  it  into 
the  region  of  these  pitiless  Achthanabas,  they 
shall  nevertheless  not  torment  it  in  its  harsh 
judgments,  but  [only]  keep  it  there  a  short  space, 
the  fire  of  its  torments  troubling  it  [only]  some- 
what. 

"  And  again  with  haste  will  they  take  pity  on 
it,  to  bring  it  forth  from  the  regions  which 
belong  to  those  rulers,  and  in  like  manner  they 
will  cause  it  to  pass  through  all  the  torments. 

"  They  shall  take  it  out  of  the  aeons  entirely, 
lest  the  rulers  of  the  aeons  should  carry  it  off  and 


SECOND   BOOK.  263 

ravish  it ;  they  shall  lead  it  along  the  way  of 
the  sunlight,  to  bring  it  to  the  virgin  of  light. 
And  she  will  prove  it,  to  find  it  free  of  all  sin, 
but  will  not  have  it  brought  to  the  light,  because 
the  sign  of  the  kingdom  of  the  mysteries  is  not 
with  it.  But  she  will  seal  it  with  an  excellent 
seal  that  it  may  be  carried  into  a  righteous 
body  of  the  aeons.  (263)  And  [that  man]  shall 
be  good  so  that  he  may  find  the  signs  of  the 
mysteries  of  light,  and  inherit  the  kingdom  of 
light  for  ever. 

"  And  if  a  man  have  sinned  once,  or  twice,  or 
thrice,  he  shall  be  sent  back  into  the  world 
according  to  the  type  of  the  sins  he  hath  com- 
mitted  ;  I  will  tell  you  these  types  when  I  shall 
come  to  explain  the  emanation  of  the  pleroma. 

"  .But  amen,  amen,  1  say  unto  you,  even 
though  a  righteous  man  have  not  committed  any 
sin  at  all,  it  is  impossible  to  take  him  into  the 
kingdom  of  light,  because  the  sign  of  the  king- 
dom of  the  mysteries  is  not  with  him.  In  a 
word,  it  is  not  possible  to  bring  a  soul  into  the 
light  without  the  mysteries  of  light." 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  Jesus  had 
finished  speaking  these  words  unto  his    John  ques- 

t  i  t    i  r»  i  tioneth 

disciples,  that  John  came  forward  and   Jesus. 
said  :  "  Master,   if  a  man  is   a  sinner,  a  trans- 
gressor, steeped  in  every  iniquity,  but  hath  left 
all  this  for  the  sake   of   the    kingdom    of   the 


264  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

heavens,  and  hath  renounced  the  whole  world 
and  all  the  matter  therein,  and  we  should  give 
him  the  first  of  the  mysteries  of  light  which  are 
in  the  first  space  from  the  exterior,  and  if  a 
short  time  after  he  have  received  the  mysteries, 
he  should  return  to  his  transgression,  and  yet 
once  again  should  repent  and  cease  from  all  sin, 
(264)  and  should  renounce  the  whole  world  and 
all  the  matter  therein,  and  if  he  should  come 
[unto  us],  and  be  in  great  contrition,  and  if  we 
should  know  really  in  truth  that  God  willeth  that 
we  should  give  unto  him  the  second  mystery  of 
the  first  space  from  the  exterior ;  should  he 
moreover  in  like  manner  turn  again  and  trans- 
gress, and  be  in  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  yet 
once  more  again  repent  and  cease  from  the  sins 
of  the  world,  and  again  renounce  the  whole 
world  and  all  the  matter  therein,  and  be  in  great 
contrition,  and  we  should  know  it  with  certainty, 
and  he  is  not  a  hypocrite,  and  we  should  again 
give  him  the  mysteries  of  the  first  [space] ; 
should  he  further,  moreover,  in  like  manner, 
turn  again,  and  commit  sin,  and  plunge  into 
every  type  [of  sin],  wilt  thou  or  not  that  we 
remit  [his  transgressions]  unto  seven  times,  and 
give  him  the  mysteries  which  are  in  the  first 
space  from  the  exterior  unto  seven  times  ? '! 

The  saviour   answered  again  and    said   unto 
John  :   "  Remit  ye  his  sin  not  only  unto  seven 


SECOND   BOOK.  265 

times,  but  amen,  I  say  unto  you,  remit  ye  it  unto 
him  many  times  seven  times,  and  each  0f  the  in_ 
time  give  ye  him  the  mysteries  from  ^tethlnd 
the  beginning,  [the  mysteries]  which  2^n 
are  in  the  first  space  from  the  ex-  times- 
terior ;  perchance  ye  will  win  the  soul  of  that 
brother,  so  that  he  may  inherit  the  kingdom  of 
light. 

"  For  this  cause,  when  ye  questioned  me  afore- 
time, saying,  (265)  'If  our  brother  sin   a  former 

J       °     x  '  saying 

against  us,  wilt  thou  that  we  forgive   explained. 
him  unto  seven  times  ? '     I  answered  and  said 
unto  you,  '  Not  only  unto  seven  times,  but  unto 
seventy  times  seven.' 

"  Now,  therefore,  remit  ye  his  sin  many  times, 
and  every  time  give  unto  him  the  external 
mysteries,  those  which  are  in  the  first  space ; 
perchance  ye  shall  win  the  soul  of  that  brother, 
so  that  he  may  inherit  the  kingdom  of  light. 

"  Amen,  I  say  unto  you,  he  who  shall  give 
life  unto  a  single  soul,  and  shall  save   nf  fVlp  rp 

...  a    fth 

it,  in  addition  to  his  own  proper  light  ^vers°of  e 
in  the  kingdom  of  light,  he  shall  further  souls' 
receive  an  additional  glory  for  the  soul  which  he 
shall  have  saved,  so  that  he  who  shall  save  a 
host  of  souls,  in  addition  to  his  own  proper 
glory  in  the  glory,  he  shall  receive  a  host  of  ad- 
ditional glories  for  the  souls  which  he  shall  have 
saved." 


266  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

When,  therefore,  the  saviour  had  spoken  these 
John  con-  words,  John  came  forward  and  said  : 
queUstionhiS  "Master,  bear  with  me  if  I  question 
mg'  thee,   for  I  will  begin  from  this  hour 

to  question  thee  on  every  matter,  concerning 
the  way  in  which  we  are  to  preach  to  human 
kind. 

"  If,  then,  such  a  brother,  after  I  shall  have 
given  him  one  of  the  mysteries  of  the  beginning, 
which  are  in  the  first  space  from  the  exterior, 
after  I  have  given  him  a  number  of  mysteries — 
[if,  I  say,  such  a  brother]  hath  not  become  worthy 
of  the  kingdom  of  the  heavens,  wilt  thou 
that  we  pass  him  on  to  the  mysteries  of  the 
second  space  1  Perchance  we  shall  win  the  soul 
of  that  brother,  he  might  repent,  and  be  in 
contrition,  and  inherit  the  kingdom  of  the 
heavens  ;  (266)  wilt  thou  or  not  that  we  pass  him 
on  to  the  mysteries  which  are  in  the  second 
space  ? " 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  John  : 
That  the  "  If  that  brother  is  not  a  hypocrite,  but 
Siebe6S      longeth  for  God  in  truth,  if  ye  shall 

frepen^nt     have       given       bim      many      timeS      the 

evenhup  to  mysteries  of  the  beginning,  and  yet  be- 
the  three  of   cause  0f  ^he  necessity  of  the  elements 

the  second  J 

space.  0£  ^he  fa^e>  ^e  h^h  not  pr0Ved  worthy 

of  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom  of  light,  [never- 
theless] continue  to  remit  his  transgressions,  pass 


SECOND   BOOK.  267 

him  on,  and  give  unto  him  the  first  mystery  of 
the  second  space.  Perchance  ye  shall  win  the 
soul  of  that  brother. 

"  [Even  then]  if  he  be  not  worthy  of  the 
mysteries  of  light,  if  he  commit  transgression 
and  any  kind  of  sin,  and  then  again  should  re- 
pent and  be  in  great  contrition,  and  renounce  the 
whole  world,  and  cease  from  all  the  sins  of 
the  world,  and  ye  know  w^ith  certainty  that 
he  is  not  a  hypocrite,  [then]  turn  ye  [to  him] 
again,  and  remit  his  sin,  pass  him  on,  give  unto 
him  the  second  mystery  of  the  second  space  of 
the  first  mystery.  (267)  Perchance,  indeed,  ye 
shall  win  the  soul  of  that  brother,  that  he  may 
inherit  the  kingdom  of  the  heavens. 

"  Yet  again,  if  he  show  himself  not  worthy  of 
the  mysteries,  but  commit  transgression  and  any 
kind  of  sin,  and  yet  again  repent  and  be  in  great 
contrition,  and  renounce  the  whole  world  and 
all  the  matter  therein  ;  and  cease  from  the  sin 
of  the  world,  and  ye  know  truly  that  he  is  not 
a  hypocrite,  but  longeth  for  the  truth,  turn  ye 
again  [unto  him],  remit  his  sin  and  accept  his 
repentance,  for  the  first  mystery  is  compassion- 
ate and  merciful-minded ;  yet  again  pass  him  on, 
and  give  him,  one  after  another,  the  three 
mysteries  of  the  second  space  of  the  first  mys- 
tery. 


268  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

"  [But]  if  that  man  [again]  transgresseth,  and 
The  limit  ]s  m  anv  kind  of  sin,  ye  shall  not  remit 
power  of  his  sm  agam  from  that  hour,  nor  any 
dpiesto  more  accept  his  repentance  ;  let  him  be 
remit  sms.  for  y0U  ag  a  stumbling-block  and  trans- 
gressor. 

"  For,  amen,  I  say  unto  you,  those  three 
mysteries  shall  witness  against  his  last  repent- 
ance, and  there  is  no  more  repentance  for  him 
from  that  hour.  Amen,  I  say  unto  you,  (268) 
the  soul  of  that  man  shall  have  no  more  pro- 
bation for  the  world  of  the  height  henceforth 
from  that  hour,  but  it  shall  dwell  in  the  habita- 
tions of  the  dragon  of  outer  darkness. 

"  It  is  because  of  the  souls  of  men  of  this  kind 
a  former      ^hat    I    spake    unto    you  aforetime  in 

saying  ex-  *  * 

plained.  parable,  saying  unto  you,  '  If  thy 
brother  sin  against  thee,  reprove  him  alone  ;  if 
he  hearken  unto  thee,  thou  shall  have  won  thy 
brother  ;  if  he  hearken  not  unto  thee,  take  with 
thee  another  [brother]  ;  if  he  still  will  not  hear 
thee  or  that  other  [brother],  bring  him  before 
the  assembly  ;  if  he  hearken  not  unto  the  rest 
[of  the  brethren],  let  him  be  for  you  as  a  trans- 
gressor and  a  stumbling-block.' 

"  If  he  prove  not  worthy  in  the  first  mystery, 
give  him  the  second  ;  and  if  he  prove  unworthy 
in  the  second,  give  him  the  three,  one  after 
the  other — that  is  to  say,  the  '  assembly  ' — and 


SECOND   BOOK.  269 

if  he  prove  unworthy  in  thejthird  mystery,  let 
him  be  for  you  as  a  stumbling-block  and  a  trans- 
gressor. 

"  And  the  word  which  I  spake  to  you  afore- 
time, '  By  the  mouth  of  two  or  three   0f.  fc^he  ab* 

J  solute  mys- 

witnesses  every  word    shall    be  estab-    tery  °? the 

J  remission 

lished,'  signifieth  that  these  three  ofsin- 
mysteries  shall  witness  against  his  last  repent- 
ance. (269)  Amen,  I  say  unto  you,  [even] 
should  that  man  repent,  there  is  no  mystery 
which  can  remit  his  sins  and  accept  his  repent- 
ance, there  is  not  the  least  possibility  of  any 
mystery  at  all  listening  unto  him,  save  only  the 
first  mystery  of  the  first  mystery  and  the  mys- 
teries of  that  ineffable.  They  alone  will  accept 
the  repentance  of  that  man  and  will  remit  his 
sins,  for  those  mysteries  are  compassionate  and 
merciful-minded,  and  grant  remission  at  any 
time." 

When  the  saviour  had  said  these  words,  John 
continued  [his  questioning],  and  said  John  con. 
to  the  saviour  :  "  Master,  if  a  brother,  ^ion*118 
who  is  a  very  great  sinner,  hath  re-  lng" 
nounced  the  whole  world  and  all  the  matter 
therein,  all  its  sins  and  all  its  interests,  and  we 
shall  prove  him,  and  know  that  he  is  not  a  de- 
ceiver and  a  hypocrite,  but  that  he  hath  a  real 
desire  to  be  in  the  truth,  and  we  should  know 
that  he  is  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of  the  second 


270  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

space  or  [even]  the  third,  wilt  thou  or  not  that 
we  give  him  of  the  [mysteries]  of  the  second 
space  and  even  of  the  third,  before  he  have  re- 
ceived any  mystery  at  all  of  the  inheritance  of 
light  ;  wilt  thou  that  we  give  them  unto  him 
or  no  s 

And  the  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  John 
The  teach-  in  the  midst  of  the  disciples:  "  If  ye 
gSo^:  know  with  certainty  (270)  that  that 
SSSJIrtL    man  hath  renounced  the  whole  world, 

receive  trie  * 

mysteries        ||  fa  interests,  all  its  associations,  and 

further  ex-  ' 

tended.  ajj  j^s  smSj  jf  ye  know  0f  a  certainty 
that  he  is  not  a  deceiver  or  a  hypocrite,  or  merely 
curious  to  know  what  kind  of  things  the  rites  of 
the  mysteries  are,  but  that  he  desireth  God  in 
truth,  ye  shall  not  hide  [the  mystery]  from  this 
man,  but  ye  shall  give  him  the  mysteries  of  the 
second  space  and  [even]  of  the  third  ;  after  ye 
have  proved  him  to  find  out  of  what  mystery 
he  is  worthy,  then  give  him  that  mystery 
and  hide  it  not  from  him,  for  should  ye  hide 
it  from  him,  ye  will  be  subject  to  a  great 
judgment. 

"  [Even]  if,  after  ye  have  once  given  him  [of 
the  mysteries]  of  the  second  space  or  of  the  third, 
he  should  return  again  to  his  transgression, 
[nevertheless]  ye  shall  again  give  them  unto  him 
a  second  time,  and  also  a  third  time  ;  J?ut  if  he 
still  transgress,  ye  shall  no  longer  give  him  them, 


SECOND   BOOK.  271 

for  then  these  mysteries  shall  be  witnesses 
against  him  in  his  last  repentance.  Amen,  I 
say  unto  you,  he  who  shall  give  the  mysteries 
again  unto  such  a  man  in  the  second  or  in 
the  third  space,  is  subject  to  a  great  judgment. 
But  let  that  man  be  for  you  as  a  transgressor 
and  a  stumbling-block. 

"  Amen,  I  say  unto  you,  for  the  soul  of  that 
man  there  is  no  salvation  in  the  world  from  that 
hour;  (271)  his  habitation  shall  be  in  the  midst 
of  the  jaws  of  the  dragon  of  outer  darkness,  the 
place  of  weeping  and  gnashing  of  teeth,  and 
in  the  dissolution  of  the  world,  his  soul  shall 
be  frozen  up,  and  shall  be  lost  in  the  pitiless  ice 
and  inexorable  fire,  and  shall  cease  to  exist  for 
the  eternity. 

"  Even  should  he  again  repent  and  renounce 
the  whole  world,  all  its  interests,  and  all  its  sins, 
and  be  in  severe  penitential  discipline  and  great 
contrition,  [nevertheless]  no  mystery  shall  accept 
his  repentance,  none  shall  give  ear  unto  him  to 
accept  his  repentance,  and  grant  him  the  remission 
of  his  sins,  save  only  the  mystery  of  the  first 
mystery  and  the  mystery  of  that  ineffable.  These 
alone  will  accept  repentance  from  such  a  man, 
and  grant  him  the  remission  of  his  sins,  for  these 
mysteries  are  compassionate  and  merciful- 
minded,  and  grant  remission  of  sins  at  any 
time." 


272  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

When  the  saviour  had  said  these  words,  John 
John  con-  continued  [his  questioning]  further,  and 
tinueth  his       -^  unto  him  :  »  Master,  bear  with  me, 

question-  '  ' 

in°-  for  I  question  thee    on  every  matter 

with  earnestness  and  confidence,  as  to  the  man- 
ner in  which  we  are  to  preach  to  the  men  of  the 
world." 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  John  : 
"  Ask  concerning  every  matter  as  thou  wilt,  and 
I  will  reveal  it  unto  thee,  face  to  face,  with 
freedom,  and  without  parable,  and  with  cer- 
tainty." 

(272)  And  John  answered  and  said  :  "  Master, 
when  we  go  forth  to  preach,  and  enter  into  a 
city  or  a  town,  and  the  people  of  that  city  come 
to  meet  us,  and  we  know  not  who  they  are,  if 
they  employ  great  deception  and  hypocrisy,  and 
receive  us,  and  take  us  into  their  houses,  wishing 
to  make  trial  of  the  mysteries  of  light ;  if  they 
are  hypocrites  with  us  in  their  submission,  and 
we  think  that  they  love  God,  and  we  should  give 
them  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom  of  light,  and 
afterwards  we  should  discover  that  they  have 
not  acted  in  a  manner  worthy  of  the  mysteries, 
and  we  should  find  out  that  they  have  been 
hypocrites  with  us,  and  have  deceived  us  and 
have  afterwards  made  a  [mere]  mock  of  the 
mysteries  of  the  several  regions,  mimicking  us 
and   [making    forgeries    of]    our  mysteries  also, 


SECOND   BOOK.  273 

what,    then,    will    happen    to    people    of    this 
kind  ? " 

The  saviour  answered  and  said   unto  John  : 
"  When  ye  shall  have   entered  into  a   0f  h 
city  or  a  town,   unto  the  house  into   rectw^the 
which  ye  shall   enter  and  in  which  ye   mystenes- 
shall  be  received,  give  ye  one  of  the  mysteries ; 
if  they  be  worthy  of  it,  ye  shall  surely  win  their 
souls    and    they  shall    inherit    the    kingdom   of 
light ;  but  if  they  be  not  worthy  of  it,  but  have 
deceived  you,  and  have  made  a  [mere]  mock  of 
the  mysteries,  mimicking  you  and  the  mysteries, 
{273)  [then]  shall  ye  appeal  to  the  first  mystery 
of  the  first  mystery  who  hatb  compassion  on  all 
the  world,  saying,  '  The  mystery  which  we  have 
given  unto   these  impious  and  iniquitous  souls, 
they  have  not  performed  in  a  manner  worthy  of 
thy   mystery,    but   they    have    [merely]  copied 
[what    we    did] ;    give    back    [therefore]    that 
mystery    unto   us,    and    make    them    for    ever 
strangers    to    the    mystery    of    thy    kingdom.' 
Shake  ye  off  the  dust  of  your  feet  as  a  testimony 
against  them,  and  say   unto  them,   '  May  your 
souls  be  as  the  very  dust  of  your  house.'    Amen, 
I   say  unto  you,  in  that  hour  all  the  mysteries 
which  ye   have  given    unto   them    shall  return 
unto  you  ;    every  word  and  every  mystery   of 
which  they  shall  have  received  the  form  shall  be 

taken  from  them. 

18 


274  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

"  Concerning  people  of  this  kind,  verily,  have  I 
a  former      aforetime  spoken  unto  you  in  parable, 

saying  *  J  l  7 

explained,  saying,  '  Into  whatsoever  house  ye 
enter,  and  ye  shall  be  received,  say  unto  them, 
"  Peace  be  with  you,"  and  if  they  are  worthy, 
your  peace  shall  rest  upon  them,  and  if  they  are 
not  worthy,  it  shall  return  unto  you  again ' — that 
is  to  say,  if  these  people  act  in  a  manner  worthy 
of  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom  of  light ;  but 
if  they  behave  hypocritically  and  with  deception 
towards  you,  without  your  being  aware  thereof, 
(274)  and  ye  give  unto  them  the  mysteries  of 
the  kingdom  of  light,  and  afterwards  they  make 
a  mock  of  the  mysteries,  and  mimic  you  and 
my  mysteries,  [then]  ye  shall  celebrate  the  first 
mystery  of  the  first  mystery,  and  he  will  give 
back  unto  you  every  mystery  that  ye  shall  have 
given  unto  them,  and  will  make  them  strangers 
to  the  mysteries  of  light  for  ever. 

"  Men  of  this  kind  shall  have  no  more  pro- 
bation given  them  in  this  world  from  that 
hour  ;  but,  amen,  I  say  unto  you,  their  habita- 
tion shall  be  in  the  midst  of  the  jaws  of  the 
dragon  of  outer  darkness.  And  should  they 
even  have  again  a  time  of  repentance,  and  should 
they  renounce  the  whole  world,  and  all  the 
matter  therein,  and  all  the  sins  of  the  world,  and 
should  then  make  entire  submission  to  the  mys- 
teries of  the  light,  no  mystery  will  give  ear  unto 


SECOND  BOOK.  275 

them  or  grant  them  remission  of  their  sins,  save 
only  the  one  and  only  mystery  of  that  ineffable, 
who  hath  compassion  on  the  whole  world  and 
granteth  the  remission  of  the  sins  of  the  whole 
world." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  finished 
speaking  these  words    unto   his  disci-   Mary  again 

_  questioneth 

pies,   that  Mary  worshipped  the   feet   Jesus. 
of  Jesus,  and  kissed  them  and  said  unto  him  : 
"  Master,  bear  with  me,  if  I  question  thee,  and 
be  not  wroth  with  me." 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
"  Ask  what  thou  wilt,  and  I  will  reveal  it  unto 
thee  with  freedom." 

(275)  And  Mary  said:  "Master,  well  then, 
supposing  that  a  brother  is  good  and  righteous, 
and  we  have  perfected  him  with  all  the  mysteries 
of  light,  and  that  this  brother  hath  a  brother  or 
a  kinsman  or  some  connection  or  other,  and  the 
latter  is  a  sinner  and  impious — or  even  if  he  be 
not  a  sinner — and  on  this  person's  passing  from 
the  body,  the  heart  of  the  good  brother  grieves 
and  mourns  over  him,  in  that  [his  friend]  is  in 
the  judgments  and  torments ;  now,  then,  0 
Master,  what  shall  we  do  to  carry  him  out  of  the 
harsh  torments  and  judgments  ?  " 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
"  I  have  already  spoken  unto  you  on  this  subject 
on  another  occasion,  but  hearken  while  I  tell  you 


276  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

again,  that  ye  may  be  perfected  in  every  perfec- 
tion. 

"  Now,  therefore,  with  regard  to  all  who  com- 
How  the       m^  sm  or  those  who  do  not  commit 

souls  of 

them  that     s[n  [f  ye  w[\\  n0£  0Ii\y  that  they  be 

have  passed  J  j  j 

from  the       taken  back  out  of  the  harsh  judgments 

body  may  °       ° 

be  helped      anc[  torments,  but  also  that  they  should  , 

by  those  on  J 

earth.  De  carried  into  a  righteous  body,  which 

shall  find  the  mysteries  of  the  godhead,  so  as  to 
enter  into  the  height  and  inherit  the  kingdom  of 
light — [then]  celebrate  the  third  mystery  of  that 
ineffable,  saying,  (276)  '  Set  ye  free  the  soul  of 
the  man  of  whom  we  think  in  our  hearts,  set  ye 
it  free  from  all  the  torments  of  the  rulers  ;  haste 
ye  speedily  to  bring  him  unto  the  virgin  of 
light  ;  in  this  very  month  let  the  virgin  of  light 
seal  him  with  an  excellent  seal,  in  this  very 
month  let  the  virgin  of  light  cast  him  into  a 
body  that  shall  be  righteous  and  good,  that  he 
may  enter  into  the  height,  and  inherit  the  king- 
dom of  light.' 

"  And  if  ye  say  these  words,  amen,  I  say  unto 
you,  all  those  that  are  in  service  in  all  the  orders 
of  the  judgments  of  the  rulers,  will  set  to  work 
to  pass  that  soul  from  one  to  the  other,  until 
they  bring  it  unto  the  virgin  of  light.  And  the 
virgin  of  light  shall  seal  it  with  the  sign  of  the 
kingdom  of  that  ineffable,  and  give  it  unto  her 
receivers,  .and  the  receivers  will  cast  it  into  a 


SECOND   BOOK.  277 

righteous  body,  and  it  will  find  the  mysteries 
of  light,  and  become  good,  and  enter  into  the 
height  and  inherit  the  kingdom  of  light.  This  is 
the  matter  on  which  ye  have  questioned  me." 

Mary  continued  and  said  :  "  Now,  then,  0 
Master,  hast  thou  not  brought  the  mys-  Mary  con. 
teries  into  the  world  (277)  that  men  %£S$^ 
may  not  be  distressed  by  the  death  that  mg- 
shall  come  upon  them  from  the  rulers  of  the 
fate  ?  For  if  it  befalleth  any  one  to  die  by  the 
sword,  or  die  by  water,  by  tortures  and  question- 
ing and  the  violence  of  the  law,  or  by  any 
other  evil  death,  surely  hast  thou  not  brought 
the  mysteries  into  the  world  that  men  may  not 
thus  die  at  the  hands  of  the  rulers  of  the  fate, 
but  may  die  by  a  sudden  death,  and  not  be  tor- 
tured by  such  kinds  of  death  ?  For  they  are  in 
exceeding  great  number  who  persecute  us  be- 
cause of  thee,  and  multitudes  pursue  us  because 
of  thy  name,  so  that  if  we  be  submitted  to  the 
torture,  we  shall  utter  the  mystery,  that  we  may 
immediately  depart  from  the  body  without 
suffering  any  pain." 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  his  disci- 
ples :  "  Concerning  the  matter  on  which   How  an 
ye  question  me,  I  have  spoken  unto  you   j£^e  can 
on  another  occasion  ;  but  hearken  once   ^ttiof 
more   that   I  may   tell   it   you  again.    ^ho°uty 
Not   only  ye,  but  all  men  who  shall   pam- 


278  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

accomplish  that  first  mystery  of  the  first  mystery 
of  that  ineffable  ;  [only]  while  a  man  is  [still] 
engaged  in  completing  that  mystery  in  all  its 
configurations  and  all  its  types  and  all  its  states, 
he  shall  not  depart  from  the  body  [under  such 
circumstances]  ;  but  after  the  perfect  accom- 
plishment of  that  mystery  in  all  its  configura- 
tions and  all  its  types,  (278)  [then]  after  this  at 
any  moment  when  he  shall  name  that  mystery, 
he  shall  be  saved  from  all  that  might  have  be- 
fallen him  at  the  hands  of  the  rulers  of  the  fate. 
In  that  moment  he  shall  depart  from  the  body 
of  the  matter  of  the  rulers,  and  his  soul  shall  be- 
come a  great  light-stream,  it  shall  soar  into  the 
height,  and  shall  pass  through  all  the  regions  of 
the  rulers  and  all  the  regions  of  the  light,  until 
it  come  into  the  region  of  its  kingdom,  without 
presenting  explanation  or  apology  in  any  region, 
for  it  is  free  of  [all]  symbol." 

And  when  Jesus  had  spoken  these  words, 
Mary  again  hastened  to  cast  herself  at  Jesus'  feet, 
and  kissed  them,  saying  :  "  Master,  I  will  question 
thee  [yet]  again ;  reveal  it  unto  us  and  hide  no- 
thing from  us." 

Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  :  "  Ask 
on  whatever  matter  thou  wilt,  and  I  will  reveal 
it  unto  thee  with  freedom,  without  parable." 

Mary  answered  and  said :  "  Well,  then,  0 
Master,  hast  thou  not  [also]  brought  the  mysteries 


SECOND   BOOK.  279 

into  the  world  because  of  poverty  and  riches, 
of  weakness  and  strength,  of  sickness  Maryl- 
and health,  in  a  word  because  of  all  J^^n.er 
things  of  this  kind,  so  that  when  lng- 
we  come  into  the  regions  of  a  country,  and 
they  do  not  believe  in  us  or  give  ear  to  our 
words,  we  should  perform  these  mysteries  in 
those  regions,  in  order  that  they  may  know 
truly  that  we  preach  the  words  of  the  perfec- 
tion ?  " 

(279)  The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto 
Mary  in  the  midst  of  the  disciples :  "  The 
mystery  on  which  ye  question  me,  [behold]  I 
gave  it  unto  you  on  another  occasion ;  but  I 
will  answer  again  and  explain  unto  you  the 
matter. 

"  Now,  therefore,  0  Mary,  not  only  ye,  but  all 
men  who  shall  achieve  the  mystery  of  J^e  ™|J£e 
the   resurrection   of    the   dead    which   f.esurrf?" 

tion  of  the 

healeth  from  demonial  possessions,  and  dead- 
sufferings  and  every  disease,  [which  also  healeth] 
the  blind,  the  lame,  the  halt,  the  dumb,  and  the 
deaf,  [the  mystery]  which  I  gave  unto  you  afore- 
time— whosoever  shall  receive  of  these  mysteries 
and  achieve  them,  if  he  ask  for  anything  what- 
ever hereafter,  poverty  or  riches,  weakness  or 
strength,  disease  or  health,  or  the  whole  healing 
of  the  body,  and  the  resurrection  of  the  dead, 
the  power  of  healing  the  lame,  the  blind,  the  deaf 


280  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

and  the  dumb,  of  every  disease  and  every 
suffering — in  a  word,  whosoever  shall  achieve 
this  mystery,  if  he  ask  any  of  the  things  which 
I  have  just  told  unto  you,  they  shall  at  once  be 
granted  unto  him." 

When,  therefore,  the  saviour  had  said  these 
words,  the  disciples  came  forward  and  cried  out 
Thedis-  all  together,  saying :  "0  saviour,  thou 
came5  e"  excitest  us  with  exceeding  great  frenzy 
aTthesub-  because  of  the  transcendent  height 
the  teach-  which  thou  hast  revealed  unto  us ; 
mg>  and  thou  exaltest  our  souls,  and  they 

have  become  paths  on  which  we  travel  to  come 
unto  thee,  (280)  for  they  came  forth  from  thee. 
Now,  therefore,  because  of  the  transcendent 
heights  which  thou  hast  revealed  unto  us,  our 
souls  have  become  frenzied,  and  they  travail 
mightily  yearning  to  go  forth  from  us  into  the 
height  to  the  region  of  thy  kingdom." 

And  when  the  disciples  had  said  these  words, 
How  the  the  saviour  again  continued  his  con- 
shaiiPleS  versation,  and  said  unto  his  disciples  : 
preach.  ce  If  ye  enter  into  cities,  or  princi- 
palities, or  countries,  preach  ye  first  unto  them, 
saying  :  '  Seek  ye  ever,  and  cease  not,  until  ye 
have  found  the  mysteries  of  the  light,  which 
will  bring  you  unto  the  kingdom  of  light.'  Say 
unto  them,  '  Beware  of  the  doctrines  of  error/ 
for  many  shall  come  in  my  name,  saying,  '  It  is 


SECOND   BOOK.  281 

1/   and  it  shall  not  be  so,  and  they  shall  lead 
astray  many. 

"  Now,  therefore,  to   every  one  that   cometh 
unto  you,   and   shall   believe   in   you,    what  mys- 

J  J  teries  they 

and  hearken  unto  my  words,  and  act  sha11  sive- 
worthily  of  the  mysteries  of  light,  unto  him  shall 
ye  give  the  mysteries  of  light,  and  hide  them 
not  from  him.  Unto  him  that  is  worthy  of  the 
higher  mystery,  give  ye  thereof,  and  to  him  that 
is  worthy  of  the  lower  mystery,  give  ye  thereof, 
and  hide  nothing  from  him. 

"  But  as  to  the  mystery  of  the  resurrection  of 
the  dead,  and  of  the  healing  of  disease,    The  mys_ 
give  it  unto  none  and  teach  it  not,  for   resurrec- e 
that  mystery  pertaineth  to  the  rulers,   jl^ento 
it  and  all  its  namings.     (281)  For  this   any' 
cause,  therefore,  give  it  unto  none,  and  teach  it 
not  until  ye  have  established  the  faith   in  the 
whole  world,  in  order  that,  when  you  enter  into 
cities  or  countries,  and  they  do  not  receive  you, 
nor  believe  on  you,  nor  give  ear  unto  your  words, 
ye  may  then  raise  the  dead  in  those  regions,  and 
heal  the  lame,  the  blind,  and  all  kinds  of  diseases 
in  those  regions,  and  by  all  such  means,  they 
will  believe  on  you,  that  ye  preach  the  God  of 
the  perfection,  and   will  have  faith   in  all  your 
words.     For  this   cause  have  I   given   unto  you 
this  mystery,  until  ye  shall  have  established  the 
faith  in  the  whole  world." 


282  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

And  when  the  saviour  had  spoken  these  words 
Of  the  con-   he  continued   further  in  his  conversa- 

stitution  of 

man-  tion,  and  said  unto  Mary  :  "  Now,  there- 

fore, give  ear,  0  Mary.  Concerning  the  word 
on  which  thou  hast  questioned  me,  to  wit,  '  Who 
constraineth  a  man  to  sin  ? ' — now,  therefore, 
[will  I  tell  it  thee].  When  the  babe  cometh  into 
the  world,  the  power  is  feeble  in  it,  the  soul  also 
is  feeble  in  it,  and  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit  is 
also  feeble  in  it ;  in  a  word,  the  three  are  all  of 
them  feeble.  None  of  them  hath  sense  enough 
for  any  work,  whether  good  or  evil,  because  of 
the  exceeding  great  weight  of  oblivion  ;  and  the 
body  too  is  feeble.  And  the  babe  eateth  of  the 
delights  of  the  world  of  the  rulers,  (282)  and  the 
power  absorbeth  from  the  portion  of  the  power 
which  is  in  the  delights,  and  the  soul  absorb- 
eth from  the  portion  of  the  soul  which  is  in 
the  delights,  and  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit 
absorbeth  from  the  portion  of  the  evil  which  is 
in  the  delights  and  their  desires,  and  the  body 
also  absorbeth  the  unperceptive  matter  which 
is  in  the  delights.  As  to  the  destiny,  it  taketh 
nothing  from  the  delights,  for  it  is  not  mingled 
with  them,  but  it  continueth  of  the  same  quality 
with  which  it  came  into  the  world. 

"  And  little  by  little  the  power,  the  soul  and 
the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit  develop,  and  each 
of  them  senseth  according  to  its  nature.     The 


SECOND   BOOK.  283 

power  senseth  after  the  light  of  the  height ;  the 
soul  also  senseth  after  the  region  of  mixed 
righteousness,  which  is  the  region  of  the  mixture  ; 
the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit  seeketh  after  all 
vices,  and  desires,  and  sins  ;  but  the  body  hath 
no  power  of  sensing  unless  it  be  an  impulse  to 
gain  strength  from  matter. 

"  And  so  forthwith  the  three  develop  sensa- 
tion, each  according  to  its  nature.  And  the 
receivers  of  wrath  also  give  order  unto  their 
workmen  to  follow  them,  and  be  witness  to  all 
the  sins  that  they  commit,  with  a  view  to  the 
manner  in  which  they  shall  punish  them  in  the 
judgments. 

"  Thereupon  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit  de- 
viseth  and    senseth  after   all  the  sins   ofthe 
and  evils  (283)  which  the  rulers  of  the   ££*erfeit 
fate   have   decreed    against  that  soul,    spirlt' 
and  it  bringeth  them  into  operation  against  that 
soul. 

"  And  so  the  power  within  impelleth  the  soul 
to  seek  after  the  region  of  light  and  the  whole 
godhead ;  whereas  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit 
draggeth  down  the  soul  and  persistently  con- 
straineth  it  to  commit  every  kind  of  iniquity 
and  mischief  and  sin,  and  persisteth  as  some- 
thing foreign  to  the  soul,  and  is  its  enemy,  and 
maketh  it  commit  all  these  sins  and  evils. 

"  It    spurreth    on    the    workmen    of    wrath, 


284  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

moreover,  to  bear  witness  to  all  the  sins  which 
it  will  constrain  the  soul  to  commit.  And  even 
when  [the  soul]  sleepeth  by  night  or  by  day,  it 
plagueth  it  in  dreams  with  the  desires  of  the 
world,  and  causeth  it  to  long  after  all  the  things 
of  this  world.  In  a  word,  it  bindeth  it  to  all 
the  actions  which  the  rulers  have  decreed  for  it, 
and  is  the  enemy  of  the  soul,  causing  it  to  do 
what  it  would  not. 

"  Now,  therefore,  Mary,  this  thing  is  the 
enemy  of  the  soul  ;  this  is  the  one  that  con- 
straineth  it  to  commit  all  kinds  of  sin. 

"Now,  therefore,  when  the  life  period  of  that 
The  state  man  *s  fulfilled,  (284)  first  there  cometh 
fui^ui111  the  destiny,  and  leadeth  that  man  to 
after  death,  j^  death,  by  means  of  the  rulers  and 
the  bonds  in  which  they  have  been  bound  by 
the  fate.  Next  come  the  receivers  of  wrath,  to 
lead  that  soul  out  of  the  body. 

"  And  for  three  days  the  receivers  of  wrath 
travel  round  with  that  soul  through  all  the 
regions,  taking  it  through  all  the  aeons  of  the 
world,  and  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit  and 
destiny  accompany  that  soul,  but  the  power 
withdraws  itself  to  the  virgin  of  light. 

"  And  after  three  days,  the  receivers  of  wrath 
take  that  soul  down  into  the  depth  of  the  hell  of 
chaos,  and  when  they  have  brought  it  to  the 
depth  of  chaos,  they  hand  it  over  to  them  that 


SECOND   BOOK.  285 

administer  punishment,  and  the  receivers  return 
unto  their  own  regions  according  to  the  regu- 
lation of  the  operations  of  the  rulers  concerning 
the  going  forth  of  the  souls. 

"  And  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit  becometh 
the  receiver  of  that  soul,  and  haunteth  it,  re- 
buking it  in  every  punishment  because  of  the 
sins  which  it  hath  caused  it  to  commit ;  it  is  in 
exceeding  great  enmity  to  that  soul. 

"  And  when  the  soul  hath  endured  the  punish- 
ments in  chaos  according  to  the  sins  which  it 
hath  committed,  (285)  the  counterfeit  of  the 
spirit  leadeth  it  forth  from  chaos,  and  haunteth 
it,  confronting  it  in  every  region  with  the  sins 
which  it  hath  committed,  and  it  bringeth  it  forth 
into  the  way  of  the  rulers  of  the  midst.  And 
when  it  hath  come  unto  them,  [the  rulers]  con- 
front it  with  the  mysteries  of  the  destiny,  and  if 
it  have  not  discovered  them,  then  they  examine 
their  destiny.  And  [then]  these  rulers  punish 
that  soul  according  to  the  sins  of  which  it  is 
guilty.  I  will  tell  you  the  type  of  their  punish- 
ments in  explaining  the  emanation  of  the 
pleroma. 

"  When,  then,  it  cometh  to  pass  that  the  period 
of  torment  of  that  soul  in  the  judgments   p?w  a,sP" 

J       o  ful  soul  IS 

of  the  rulers  of  the  midst  is  fulfilled,    brought 

back  to 

the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit  leadeth  the   rebirth- 
soul  out  of  all  the  regions  of  the  rulers  of  the 


286  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

midst,  and  bringeth  it  into  the  light  of  the  sun, 
according  to  the  commandment  of  the  first  man 
Ieou,  and  taketh  it  before  the  judge,  that  is  to 
say,  the  virgin  of  light.  And  she  proveth  that 
soul ;  she  findeth  that  it  is  a  sinning  soul,  and 
casteth  into  it  her  light-power,  to  unite  it  with  a 
body  and  common  sensory.  And  I  will  tell  you 
the  type  of  all  this  in  explaining  the  emanation 
of  the  pleroma.  And  the  virgin  of  light  sealeth 
that  soul,  and  handeth  it  over  to  one  of  her 
receivers,  and  will  have  it  carried  into  a  body, 
(286)  which  is  the  record  of  the  sins  which  it 
hath  committed. 

"  Amen,  I  say  unto  you,  she  will  not  suffer 
that  soul  to  escape  from  transmigrations  into 
bodies  until  it  hath  given  signs  of  [being  in]  its 
last  cycle  according  to  its  record  of  demerit. 
And  concerning  all  this  I  will  tell  you  the  types 
and  also  the  types  of  bodies  into  which  souls 
shall  be  cast  according  to  their  sins  ;  all  this  will 
I  tell  you  when  I  come  to  explain  to  you  the 
emanation  of  the  pleroma." 

And  Jesus  continued  further  in  his  conversa- 
Of  the  tion  and  said  :  "  But  [in  the  case  of]  a 

cension" aS"  soul  which  hath  not  hearkened  unto  the 
of  theright-  counterfeit  of  the  spirit  in  all  its  works, 
that  hath  but  na^n  become  righteous,  and  hath 
received       received   the    mysteries   of    the    light 

the  mys-  J  ° 

teries.  which  are  in  the  second  space,  or  even 


SECOND   BOOK.  287 

those  which  are  in  the  third  space  towards  the 
interior  ;  when  the  time  of  that  soul  is  come  for 
its  passing  from  the  body,  then  the  spiritual 
counterfeit  folio weth  after  that  soul,  and  also  the 
destiny.  They  follow  after  it  in  the  way  whereby 
it  shall  pass  into  the  height. 

"  And  before  it  getteth  far  into  the  height,  it 
uttereth  the  mystery  of  the  breaking  of  the  seals 
and  all  the  bonds  of  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit 
whereby  the  rulers  bind  it  to  the  soul ;  and  when 
[the  mystery]  is  uttered,  the  bonds  of  the  coun- 
terfeit of  the  spirit  are  broken,  so  that  it  cease th 
to  shackle  that  soul,  and  letteth  the  soul  go, 
according  to  the  injunctions  which  the  rulers  of 
the  great  fate  have  given  unto  it,  saying,  (287) 
'  Let  not  that  soul  go  until  it  hath  told  thee  the 
mystery  of  the  breaking  of  all  the  seals  where- 
with thou  hast  been  bound  to  it/ 

"  It  shall  come  to  pass,  therefore,  when  a  soul 
hath  uttered  the  mystery  of  the  breaking  of  the 
seals  and  all  the  bonds  of  the  counterfeit  of  the 
spirit,  that  the  latter  shall  [at  once]  cease  to 
impede  that  soul,  and  shall  cease  to  be  bound  to 
it. 

"  [So  then]  it  uttereth  the  mystery  and 
causeth  the  destiny  to  depart  to  its  own  region 
with  the  rulers  who  are  in  the  way  of  the  midst ; 
and  uttering  the  mystery,  it  dismisseth  the 
counterfeit  of  the  spirit  unto  the  rulers  of  the 


288  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

fate,  in  the  region  in  which  it  was  bound  to 
it. 

"  And  forthwith  that  soul  becometh  a  mighty 
light-stream,  exceedingly  radiant,  and  the  receiv- 
ers of  wrath,  who  have  led  it  forth  from  the  body, 
are  terror-stricken  before  the  light  of  that  soul, 
and  fall  down  upon  their  faces.  Forthwith  that 
soul  becometh  a  mighty  light-stream,  it  becometh 
entirely  wings  of  light,  and  passeth  through  all 
the  regions  of  the  rulers  and  all  the  orders  of 
light,  until  it  arriveth  at  the  region  of  its  king- 
dom, of  which  it  hath  received  the  mystery. 

"  [Again  in  the  case  of]  a  soul  which  hath 
received  the  mystery  in  the  first  space 

Of  the  state  .  . 

after  death    towards  the  exterior,  and  after  receiv- 

of  one  that 

hath  re-        ing  the  mysteries  and  perfecting  them, 

ceivedthe        ,  x  . 

mysteries,     (288)  it  then  turneth  back  and  com- 

and  yet 

hath  trans-   mitteth  sin  once  more  even  after  the 

pressed. 

perfecting  of  the  mysteries  ;  when  the 
time  hath  come  for  that  soul  to  depart,  the  re- 
ceivers of  wrath  come  to  lead  that  soul  out  of 
the  body. 

"  Then  the  destiny  and  the  counterfeit  of  the 
spirit  pursue  after  that  soul,  for  the  counterfeit 
of  the  spirit,  being  bound  to  it  by  the  bonds 
of  the  rulers,  folio weth  after  that  soul  as  it 
travelleth  on  the  ways  of  the  counterfeit  of  the 
spirit. 

"  It  uttereth  the  mystery  of  the  breaking  of 


SECOND   BOOK.  289 

all  the  bonds  and  all  the  seals  with  which  the 
rulers  have  bound  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit  to 
the  soul ;  and  when  the  soul  hath  uttered  the 
mystery  of  the  breaking  of  the  seals,  forthwith 
the  bonds  of  the  seals  are  broken,  which  bind 
the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit  to  the  soul  within ; 
and  when  the  soul  hath  uttered  the  mystery  of 
the  breaking  of  the  seals,  then,  forthwith,  the 
counterfeit  of  the  spirit  is  unbound  and  ceaseth 
to  war  against  the  soul.  In  that  hour  [then], 
the  soul  uttereth  a  mystery,  which  shall  domin- 
ate the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit  and  the  destiny, 
and  suffer  them  [simply]  to  follow  after  it,  so 
that  they  have  no  strength,  while  it  hath  all 
its  strength. 

(289)  "And  in  that  hour  the  receivers  of  that 
soul  and  of  the  mysteries  it  hath  received,  come 
and  wrest  that  soul  from  the  receivers  of  wrath, 
and  those  receivers  go  back  to  the  operations  of 
the  rulers  according  to  the  regulation  of  the 
leading  forth  of  souls. 

"  But  the  receivers  of  that  soul,  who  pertain 
to  the  light,  become  wings  of  light  for  that  soul, 
and  will  be  a  vesture  of  light  for  it ;  they  will 
not  lead  it  into  chaos,  for  it  is  not  lawful  to  bring 
into  chaos  a  soul  that  hath  received  the  mys- 
teries ;  but  they  will  set  it  in  the  way  of  the 
rulers  of  the  midst,  and  when  it  hath  come  unto 

the  rulers  of  the  midst  the  rulers  advance   to 

19 


290  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

meet  that  soul,  in  mighty  fear  and  terrible 
burning,  in  many  forms,  in  a  word,  in  mighty 
terror  to  which  there  is  no  measure. 

"  And  in  that  hour  the  soul  uttereth  the 
mystery  of  their  apology,  and  they  are  stricken 
with  exceeding  great  fear,  and  fall  on  their  faces, 
in  terror  of  the  mystery  which  it  hath  uttered 
and  of  their  apology.  (290)  And  that  soul 
The  apo-  dismisseth  their  destiny,  saying  unto 
ru1ersfofhe  them,  '  Take  ye  unto  yourselves  your 
the  midst,  destiny ;  I  will  not  set  foot  in  your 
region  henceforth  from  this  hour.  I  will  be  a 
stranger  unto  you  for  all  time,  for  I  go  unto  the 
region  of  my  inheritance.' 

"  When  the  soul  hath  finished  speaking  these 
words,  the  receivers  of  light  will  fly  up  with  it 
into  the  height,  and  bring  it  into  the  seons  of 
the  fate,  where  it  will  pronounce  the  apology  of 
that  region  and  present  its  seals,  all  of  which  I 
will  explain  to  you  in  the  emanation  of  the 
pleroma.  And  it  will  present  the  counterfeit  of 
the  spirit  to  the  rulers,  and  pronounce  for  them 
the  mystery  of  the  bonds  whereby  they  have 
The  apo-  bound  it  to  it,  saying  unto  them,  '  Take 
rvderfof16     ye  urrto  yourselves  your  counterfeit  of 

the  fate.  ^  gp^  .    J  wj]l    n0£  se£    f00£    jn  y0ur 

region  henceforth  from  this  hour ;  I  will  be  a 
stranger  unto  you  for  all  time.'  And  it  will 
present  unto  each  his  seal  and  his  apology. 


SECOND   BOOK.  291 

"  And  when  the  soul  hath  finished  speaking 

these  words,  the  receivers  of  light  will  0f  the  as 

fly  with  it  into  the  height,  and  take  it  ^aHou/ 

out  of  the  aeons  of  the  fate,  and  carry  }n^°  **Je 

J      inherit - 

it  up  into  the  rest  of  the  aeons.  (291)  ance- 
It  will  present  the  apology  of  every  region — 
the  apology  of  all  the  regions  and  seals  and 
tyrants  of  king  Adam  as.  It  will  present  the 
apology  of  all  the  rulers  of  all  the  regions  of  the 
left,  of  whom  I  will  tell  you  all  the  apologies 
and  seals  when  I  shall  explain  the  emanation  of 
the  pleroma. 

"  And  then  the  receivers  will  bring  that  soul 
unto  the  virgin  of  light,  and  then  that  soul 
presenteth  unto  the  virgin  of  light  the  seals  and 
the  glory  of  its  songs  ;  and  the  virgin  of  light 
and  also  the  seven  virgins  of  light  all  examine 
that  soul,  that  they  may  all  find  their  signs  in  it, 
their  seals,  their  baptisms  and  chrisms.  And 
the  virgin  of  light  sealeth  that  soul,  (292)  and 
the  receivers  of  light  baptise  that  soul  to  give  it 
the  spiritual  chrism.  And  each  of  the  virgins  of 
light  sealeth  it  with  her  seal. 

"  And  then  the  receivers  of  light  mount  up 
unto  the  great  Sabaoth,  the  good,  who  is  beside 
the  gate  of  life  in  the  region  of  them  of  the  right, 
whom  they  call  father  ;  and  that  soul  offereth 
unto  him  the  glory  of  its  songs,  and  also  his 
seals  and  his  apologies.     And  the  great  Sabaoth 


292  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

sealeth  it  with  his  seals,  and  the  soul  presenteth 
its  gnosis  and  the  glory  of  its  songs  and  the 
seals  to  every  region  of  them  that  are  on  the 
right.  And  all  seal  it  with  their  seals  ;  and 
then  Melchisedec,  the  great  receiver  of  light, 
who  inhabiteth  the  region  of  them  of  the  right, 
sealeth  that  soul,  and  all  the  receivers  of  Mel- 
chisedec seal  that  soul,  and  [Melchisedec] 
bringeth  it  into  the  treasure  of  light. 

"  And  it  presenteth  the  glory  and  worship  and 
honour  of  its  songs,  with  all  the  seals  of  all  the 
region  of  the  light ;  and  all  they  of  the  region 
of  the  treasure  of  light  seal  it  with  their  seals, 
and  it  cometh  unto  the  region  of  the  inherit- 
ance." 

When,  then,  the  saviour  had  spoken  these 
things  unto  his  disciples,  he  said  unto  them  : 
(293)  "  Understand  ye  how  I  speak  unto  you  ? " 

And  Mary  came  forward  again  and  said  : 
Mary  inter-  "Yea,  Master,  I  understand  how  thou 
teaching6  speakest  unto  me,  and  I  comprehend 
from  for-       fty  these  things.     Now,  therefore,  con- 

mer  say-  ©  »  > 

mgs.  cerning  the  words  which  thou  hast  said 

unto  us,  my  mind  hath  had  four  intuitions ;  my 
indweller  of  light  impelleth  me,  and  blissfully 
seetheth  within  me,  longing  to  come  forth  from 
me  and  enter  into  thee.  Now,  therefore,  0 
Master,  hearken  while  I  tell  thee  the  four  intui- 
tions which  have  come  unto  me. 


SECOND   BOOK.  293 

"  The  first  intuition  hath  come  unto  me  con- 
cerning the  word  which  thou  hast  spoken,  '  Now, 
therefore,  the  soul  presenteth  the  apology  and 
seal  unto  all  the  rulers  who  are  in  the  region  of 
king  Adamas,  and  it  presenteth  the  apology  and 
honour  and  glory  of  all  their  seals  and  of  the 
songs  of  the  region  of  the  light ' — concerning 
this  word,  thou  didst  speak  unto  us  aforetime, 
when  that  piece  of  money  was  brought 

_L  XI G  UlGCS 

unto  thee,  thou  didst  see  that  it  was  of  of  money 

that  was 

silver  and  brass,  and  didst  ask, '  Whose   brought 

unto  Jesus. 

is  this  image  ? '  and  they  answered, 
'  It  is  the  king's.'  And  when  thou  didst  see 
that  it  was  of  silver  and  brass,  thou  saidst, 
'  Render  unto  the  king  that  which  is  the  king's, 
and  unto  God  that  which  is  God's '  ;  that  is  to 
say,  when  the  soul  hath  received  the  mystery, 
(294)  it  presenteth  an  apology  to  all  the  rulers 
and  to  the  region  of  king  Adamas,  it  offereth 
also  honour  and  glory  to  all  them  of  the  region 
of  the  light.  And  the  word,  '  It  shineth,'  when 
thou  didst  see  that  it  was  of  silver  and  brass, 
this  is  the  type  of  the  man  in  whom  is  both 
the  light-power,  that  is  to  say  refined  silver,  and 
also  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit,  that  is  to  say 
the  brass  of  matter.  This,  0  Master,  is  the  first 
intuition. 

"The  second  intuition  is  concerning  what 
thou  hast  just  said  unto  us  about  the  soul  which 


294  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

hath  received  the  mysteries,  to  wit,  '  When  it 
hath  come  into  the  region  of  the  rulers  of  the 
way  of  the  midst,  then  they  advance  to  meet  it  in 
exceeding  great  terror,  and  the  soul  presenteth 
the  mystery  of  fear  unto  them,  and  they  are  in 
terror  before  it  ;  it  dismisseth  the  destiny  to  its 
own  region  and  dismisseth  the  counterfeit  of  the 
spirit  to  its  own  region,  and  it  presenteth  their 
apology  and  seals  to  each  of  the  rulers  who  are 
in  the  ways,  and  proffereth  the  honour  and  glory 
and  worship  of  the  seals,  and  its  songs  to  all 
them  of  the  region  of  light ' — concerning  this 
word,  0  Master,  thou  didst  say  unto  us  afore- 
time by  the  mouth  of  Paul,  our  brother,  '  Give 
a  saying  of  revenue  to  whom  revenue  [is  due], 
PauL  fear  to   whom  fear,   tribute  to  whom 

tribute,  honour  to  whom  honour,  worship  to 
whom  worship ;  leave  no  account  unpaid '  ; 
(295)  that  is  to  say,  the  soul  that  hath 
received  the  mysteries  giveth  apology  in  every 
region.  This,  0  Master,  is  the  second  intuition. 
"  The  third  intuition  is  concerning  the  word 
which  thou  hast  just  now  spoken  unto  us,  '  The 
counterfeit  of  the  spirit  is  the  enemy  of  the  soul, 
and  constraineth  it  to  commit  every  kind  of  sin 
The  foes  of    and  mischief,  and  rebuketh  it  in  the 

one's  own  .  , 

house.  torments  because  of  all  the  sins  which 

it  hath  caused  it  to  commit ;  in  a  word,  it  is  the 
foe  of  the  soul  in  every  way ' — concerning  this 


SECOND   BOOK.  295 

word,  therefore,  thou  hast  spoken  unto  us  afore- 
time, saying,  '  The  foes  of  a  man  are  the  dwellers 
in  his  own  house ' ;  that  is  to  say,  the  dwellers  in 
the  house  of  the  soul  are  the  counterfeit  of  the 
spirit  and  the  destiny,  who  are  ever  the  foes  of  the 
soul,  and  cause  it  to  commit  every  kind  of  sin  and 
iniquity.  This,  0  Master,  is  the  third  intuition. 
"  The  fourth  intuition  is  concerning  the  word 
which  thou  hast  said,  '  When  the  soul  hath  come 
forth  from  the  body  and  goeth  on  its  way  with 
the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit,  if  it  hath  not  found 
the  mystery  of  the  breaking  of  all  the  bonds  and 
the  seals  which  are  bound  to  the  counterfeit  of 
the  spirit,  so  that  it  may  cease  to  haunt  it — 
if,  then,  it  hath  not  found  it,  the  counterfeit  of 
the  spirit  bringeth  the  soul  before  the  virgin  of 
light  who  is  the  judge,  and  the  virgin  of  light 
examineth  the  soul,  (296)  to  see  if  it  hath 
sinned  and  to  find  out  also  if  it  hath  with  it 
the  mysteries  of  light.  [The  virgin  of  light  then] 
handeth  it  over  to  one  of  her  receivers,  and  her 
receiver  leadeth  it  forth  and  casteth  it  into  a 
body,  and  it  is  not  set  free  from  transmigration 
into  bodies  before  it  hath  given  [signs  of  being 
in]  its  last  cycle ' — concerning  this  word,  then, 
0  Master,  thou  hast  said  unto  us  aforetime, 
4  Agree  with  thine  enemy  whilst  thou   A  sayms 

o  J  concerning 

art  in  the  way  with  him,  lest  at  any   rebirth- 
time  thine  enemy  deliver  thee  to  the  judge,  and 


296  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

the  judge  deliver  thee  to  the  officer,  and  the 
officer  cast  thee  into  prison ;  thou  shalt  not  come 
out  thence  till  thou  hast  paid  the  uttermost 
farthing.' 

"  Manifestly  is  thy  word  concerning  this. 
Every  soul  which  shall  come  forth  from  the 
body,  and  shall  go  on  its  way  with  the  counter- 
feit of  the  spirit,  and  which  hath  not  found  the 
mystery  of  breaking  all  the  seals  and  all  the 
bonds,  that  it  may  be  set  free  from  the  counter- 
feit of  the  spirit  which  is  bound  unto  it ;  well, 
then,  that  soul  which  hath  not  received  the 
mystery  of  light,  and  hath  not  found  the 
mystery  of  detaching  the  counterfeit  of  the 
spirit  which  is  bound  to  it  within — if,  then, 
that  soul  hath  not  found  it,  the  counterfeit  of 
the  spirit  bringeth  that  soul  unto  the  virgin  of 
light,  and  the  virgin  of  light,  the  judge,  handeth 
over  that  soul  to  one  of  her  receivers,  (297)  and 
her  receiver  casteth  it  into  the  spheres  of  the 
aeons,  and  it  is  not  set  free  from  transmigrations 
into  bodies,  until  it  giveth  signs  of  being  in  its 
last  cycle.  This,  then,  0  Master,  is  the  fourth 
intuition." 

It  came  to  pass,  when  Jesus  had  heard  the 
words  which  Mary  had  spoken,  that  he  said  : 
"  Well  said,  Mary,  most  blessed  and  spiritual. 
These  are  the  interpretations  of  the  words  which 
I  have  spoken." 


SECOND   BOOK.  297 

And  Mary  answered  and  said  :  "  Yet  again,  0 
Master,  do  I  question  thee,  for  hence-  Mary  con- 
forth  from  this  hour  I  will  begin  to  to* question 
question  thee  on  every  matter  with  esus* 
precision.  Wherefore,  then,  0  Master,  be  patient 
with  us,  reveal  every  matter  on  which  we  ques- 
tion thee  as  concerning  the  manner  in  which  my 
brethren  shall  preach  to  the  whole  race  of  human 
kind."     This  she  said  to  the  saviour. 

And  the  saviour  answered,  in  great  compassion 
unto  her,  and  said  :  "  Amen,  amen,  I  say  unto  you, 
not  only  will  I  reveal  unto  you  every  matter  on 
which  ye  shall  question  me,  but  henceforth  I 
will  reveal  unto  you  other  matters  of  which  ye 
think  not  to  question  me,  matters  which  have 
not  yet  dawned  upon  the  heart  of  man,  of  which 
even  all  the  rest  of  the  gods  who  are  among 
men  are  ignorant.  Now,  therefore,  0  Mary,  ask 
what  thou  wilt,  and  I  will  reveal  it  face  to  face, 
without  parable." 

Mary  answered  and  said:  (298)  "Well,  then, 
0  Master,  of  what  type  are  the  baptisms  which 
remit  sins  ?  I  have  heard  thee  say,  '  The  work- 
men of  wrath  follow  the  soul,  bearing  witness  to 
all  its  sins,  that  they  may  rebuke  it  in  the  judg- 
ments.' Now,  therefore,  0  Master,  do  the  mys- 
teries of  the  baptisms  cause  the  sins  which  are  in 
the  hands  of  the  workmen  of  wrath  to  disappear 
so  that  they  forget  them  ?     Now,  therefore,  0 


298  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

Master,  tell  unto  us  the  types  of  the  remission 
of  sins  ;  nay,  we  would  know  them  with  pre- 
cision." 

The   saviour  answered  and  said   unto  Mary  : 
of  the  « Well  hast  thou  spoken.       Assuredly 

workmen  of  L 

wrath.  tne  workmen  [of  wrath]  are  those  who 

bear  witness  of  all  sins  ;  they  are  ever  in  the  judg- 
ments, seizing  the  souls,  rebuking  every  soul 
that  sinneth  and  hath  received  no  mystery  ;  they 
keep  them  in  chaos  and  chastise  them ;  but 
these  receivers  of  wrath  cannot  go  beyond  chaos, 
so  as  to  enter  into  the  orders  which  are  higher 
than  chaos,  to  rebuke  the  souls  which  leave  those 
regions.  Now,  therefore,  it  is  not  lawful  to  do 
violence  unto  the  souls  which  have  received  the 
mysteries,  or  to  bring  them  into  chaos  so  that 
the  workmen  of  wrath  may  rebuke  them.  The 
workmen  of  wrath  rebuke  [only]  the  souls  of 
sinners  ;  (299)  they  seize  upou  those  which  have 
not  received  the  mysteries  and  which  have  been 
brought  into  chaos.  But  as  for  the  souls  which 
have  received  the  mysteries,  they  have  no  need 
of  rebuking  them,  for  they  do  not  go  into  their 
regions,  and  even  if  they  should  go  into  their 
regions,  they  would  not  be  able  to  keep  them 
there  ;  least  of  all  have  they  the  power  of  taking 
them  into  chaos. 

"  [But]  hearken  again  that  I  may  tell  you  the 
word  in  truth,  of  what  type  is  the  mystery  of 


SECOND   BOOK.  299 

baptism  which  remitteth  sins.  Now,  therefore, 
when  souls  have  committed  sin  while  How  the 
still  in  the  world,  yea,  verily,  the  work-  sinner  is e 
men  of  wrath  come  to  bear  witness  of  wSh?ts 
every  sin  which  a  soul  hath  committed,  sins' 
lest  souls  should  escape  from  the  region  of  chaos, 
and  in  order  that  they  may  rebuke  the  soul  in 
the  judgments  which  are  within  chaos ;  and  the 
counterfeit  of  the  spirit  beareth  witness  to  every 
sin  which  the  soul  hath  committed,  that  it  also 
may  rebuke  it  in  the  judgments  which  are  with- 
out chaos  ;  not  only  doth  it  bear  witness  con- 
cerning the  sins  of  the  souls,  but  it  sealeth  every 
sin  that  it  may  be  stamped  on  the  soul,  so  that 
all  the  rulers  of  the  torments  of  sinners  may 
know  that  it  is  the  soul  of  a  sinner,  and  may  be 
informed  of  the  number  of  sins  which  it  hath 
committed,  by  the  number  of  seals  which  the 
counterfeit  of  the  spirit  hath  stamped  upon  it, 
so  that  they  may  chastise  it  according  to  the 
number  of  sins  which  it  hath  committed.  (300) 
This  is  the  fashion  in  which  they  treat  the  soul 
of  the  sinner. 

"  Now,  therefore,  when  a  man  receiveth  the 
mysteries  of  the  baptisms,  those  mys-  ^^J^ 
teries  become  a  mighty  fire,  exceedingly  Purify  sins- 
fierce,  wise,  which  burneth  up  sins  ;  they  enter 
into  the  soul  occultly  and  devour  all  the  sins  which 
the  spiritual  counterfeit  hath  implanted  in  it. 


300  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

"  And  when  [the  fire]  hath  purified  all  the 
The  separa-  sms  wnicn  ^ne  counterfeit  of  the  spirit 
-p?infthe  natn  implanted  in  the  sou],  [the 
cipies "  by     mysteries]  enter  into  the  body  occultly. 

the  mystery         J  J  J  J  > 

of  baptism.  ^a^  r^he  fjrej  may  secretly  pursue  after 
the  pursuers  and  cut  them  off  with  the  body. 
They  chase  after  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit  and 
the  destiny,  to  separate  them  from  the  power 
and  the  soul,  and  place  them  with  the  body,  so 
that  the  spiritual  counterfeit,  the  destiny  and  the 
body  may  be  separated  into  one  group,  and  the 
soul  and  power  into  another.  And  the  mystery 
of  baptism  remaineth  between  the  two,  and 
separateth  the  one  from  the  other,  in  order  that 
it  may  cleanse  them  and  make  them  pure,  that 
[the  soul  and  power]  may  not  be  fouled  in 
matter. 

"  Now,  therefore,  0  Mary,  this  is  the  way  in 
which  the  mysteries  of  the  baptisms  remit  sins 
and  every  iniquity." 

(301)  And  when  the  saviour  had  spoken  these 
words  he  said  unto  his  disciples  :  "  Understand 
ye  how  I  speak  unto  you  ? " 

And  Mary  came  forward  and  said  :  "  Yea,  0 
^retetiTthe  Master, m  truth  I  understand  thorough- 
same  from     iy  an  that  thou  hast  said.     As  to  the 

a  former  J 

saying.  word,  therefore,  concerning  the  re- 
mission of  sins,  thou  didst  speak  unto  us  in 
parable  aforetime,  saying, '  I  am  come  to  cast  fire 


SECOND   BOOK.  301 

on  the  earth,  and  how  can  I  not  will  that  it 
should  burn  ? '  nay,  thou  didst  explain  it  openly, 
saying,  '  I  have  a  baptism  with  which  to  baptise, 
and  how  shall  I  endure  until  it  be  perfected  ? 
Think  ye  that  I  have  come  to  bring  union  on  the 
earth  ?  Nay,  but  I  am  come  to  bring  separation  ; 
for,  from  this  hour,  five  shall  be  in  one  house, 
three  shall  be  separated  against  two,  and  two 
against  three.'  This,  my  Master,  is  the  word 
which    thou   didst    speak   openly. 

"  And  the  word  which  thou  spakest,  'I  am  come 
to  cast  fire  on  the  earth,  and  how  can  I  not  will 
that  it  should  burn  ? '  that  is  to  say,  0  Master,  that 
thou  hast  brought  the  mysteries  of  the  baptisms 
into  the  world,  and  how  canst  thou  not  will  that 
it  should  burn  up  all  the  sins  of  the  soul,  and 
purify  them  ?  And  afterwards  thou  didst  explain 
it  openly  saying,  '  I  have  a  baptism  with  which 
to  baptise,  (302)  and  how  shall  I  endure  until  it 
be  perfected  ? ' — that  is  to  say,  thou  shalt  not 
remain  in  the  world  until  the  baptisms  are 
perfected  and  have  made  the  souls  perfect. 

"  And  again  the  word  which  thou  didst  speak 
unto  us  aforetime,  '  Think  ye  that  I  am  come  to 
bring  union  on  the  earth  ?  Nay,  but  I  am  come 
to  bring  separation ;  for,  from  this  hour,  five 
shall  be  in  one  house,  three  shall  be  separated 
against  two,  and  two  against  three ' ;  that  is  to 
say,  that  the  mystery  of  the  baptisms  which  thou 


302  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

hast  brought  into  the  world,  hath  brought  about 
a  division  in  the  body  of  the  world,  for  it  hath 
separated  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit,  the  body 
and  the  destiny  into  one  group,  and  the  soul 
with  the  power  it  hath  separated  into  another ; 
that  is  to  say,  that  three  shall  be  against  two 
and  two  against  three." 

When  Mary  had  spoken  these  words,  the  saviour 
said  :  "  Well  said,  0  Mary,  the  spiritual  one  of  pure 
light,  that  is  the  interpretation  of  the  word." 

And  Mary  answered  again  and  said  :  "  Master, 
Mary  ^  w^  continue  further  to  question  thee  ; 

□uestioneth  now>  therefore,  0  Master,  bear  with 
Jesus.  me  j£  j  qUestion  thee.     We  now  know 

openly  the  type  according  to  which  the  baptisms 
remit  sins.  Now,  also,  as  to  the  mystery  of  those 
three  spaces,  the  mysteries  of  that  first  mystery, 
and  the  mysteries  of  that  ineffable,  according 
to  what  type  do  they  remit  sins  ?  Do  they 
grant  remission  after  the  type  of  the  baptisms  or 
not  ? " 

(303)  The  saviour  answered  and  said  :  "  Nay 
Of  the  re-      rather,  all  the  mysteries  of  the  three 

mission  of  J 

sins  accord-   spaces   remit    to    the    soul,    in    every 

ing  to  the         L  J 

mysteries,  region  of  the  rulers,  all  the  sins  which 
the  soul  hath  committed  from  the  beginning. 
All  these  they  remit,  and  also  they  remit  unto  it 
the  sins  which  it  shall  hereafter  commit  until 
the  time  when  every  one  of  these  mysteries  shall 


SECOND   BOOK.  303 

be  in  its  complete  possession.  I  will  tell  you 
the  time  when  each  of  the  mysteries  shall  be 
in  its  complete  possession  when  I  treat  of  the 
emanation  of  the  pleroma. 

"  The  mystery  also  of  that  first  mystery  and 
the  mystery  of  that  ineffable  remit  unto  the 
soul,  in  every  region,  all  the  sins  and  every 
iniquity,  which  the  soul  shall  have  committed  ; 
and  not  only  shall  all  be  remitted  unto  it,  but 
no  sin  shall  be  imputed  unto  it  from  that  hour 
until  the  [end  of]  the  aeon  of  the  aeons,  because 
of  the  boon  of  that  great  mystery  and  its  exceed- 
ing great  glory." 

When,  then,  the  saviour  had  spoken  these 
words,  he  said  unto  his  disciples  :  "  Understand 
ye  how  I  speak  unto  you  ?  " 

And  Mary  answered  and  said  :  "  Yea,  Master, 
already  have  I  seized  on  all  the  words  Mary  inter- 
which  thou  hast  spoken.  Now,  there-  same  from6 
fore,  my  Master,  as  to  the  word  which 
thou  hast  said,  (304)  '  All  the  mysteries  of  the 
three  spaces  remit  sins,  they  cover  their  trans- 
gressions '  ;  David,  the  prophet,  hath  prophesied 
aforetime  concerning  this  word,  saying,  '  Blessed 
are  they  whose  sins  have  been  pardoned,  and 
whose  iniquities  have  been  covered.'  Thus,  then, 
he  prophesied  aforetime  concerning  this  word. 

"  And  the  word  which  thou  hast  spoken,  '  As 
to  the   mystery  of  that  first  mystery  and  the 


304  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

mystery  of  that  ineffable,  every  one  who  shall 
receive  those  mysteries,  not  only  shall  the  sins 
which  he  hath  committed  from  the  beginning, 
be  remitted,  but  also  they  shall  not  be  imputed 
to  him  henceforth  from  that  hour  for  ever ' ; 
concerning  this  word  David  prophesied  aforetime, 
saying,  '  Blessed  are  they  to  whom  the  lord  shall 
not  impute  their  sins,' — that  is  to  say,  their  sins 
shall  not  be  imputed  from  that  hour  to  them 
who  shall  have  received  the  mysteries  of  the 
first  mystery,  and  to  them  that  shall  have 
received  the  mystery  of  that  ineffable." 

He  said  :  "  Well  said,  Mary,  thou  spiritual 
one  of  pure  light.  That  is  the  interpretation  of 
the  word." 

And  Mary  continued  further  and  said  :  "  Well, 
then,  0  Master,  if  a  man  receiveth  the  mystery 
in  the  mysteries  of  the  first  mystery,  (305)  and 
turneth  back  once  more,  and  committeth  sin,  and 
then  turneth  again  and  repenteth,  and  offereth 
prayers  unto  that  mystery  whatsoever  [he  have 
received],  shall  his  sin  be  remitted  or  not  ? '; 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
Of  the  for-     "  Amen,  amen,  I  say  unto  you,   who- 

giveness  '  J  J 

even  unto     soever     shall     receive    the    mysteries 

twelve  J 

times  of        of  the  first   mystery,   and    then    shall 

them  who 

have  received  turn  back  and  transgress  twelve  times 

the  mys- 
tery of  the  |_evenj,     and    then  should    again    re- 
first  mys-                                     .  . 
tery.  pent  twelve  times,  offering  prayer  in 


SECOND   BOOK.  305 

the  mystery  of  the  first  mystery,   he  shall   be 
forgiven. 

"  But  if  he  should  transgress  after  twelve 
times,  should  he  turn  back  and  transgress,  it 
shall  not  be  remitted  unto  him  for  ever,  so  that 
he  may  turn  again  unto  his  mystery,  whatever 
it  be.  For  him  there  is  no  means  of  repentance 
unless  he  have  received  the  mysteries  of  that 
ineffable,  which  hath  compassion  at  all  times  and 
remitteth  sins  for  ever  and  ever." 

Mary  continued  further  and  said  :  "If  even 
they  who  have  received  the  mysteries  of 
the  first  mystery  turn  back  and  commit  sin, 
and  if  they  pass  out  of  the  body  without 
repentance,  shall  they  inherit  the  kingdom  or 
not  ?  " 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
""Amen,  amen,  I  say  unto  you,  every  Ofsuchini- 
one  that  shall  have  received  the  mys-   wh°  die 

J  without 

teries  in  the  first  mystery,  (306)  and  repentance. 
shall  have  transgressed  for  the  first,  second  or 
third  time,  if  he  pass  out  of  the  body  without 
repentance,  his  judgment  is  more  severe  than 
every  other ;  for  his  dwelling  is  in  the  midst  of 
the  jaws  of  the  dragon  of  the  outer  darkness,  and 
last  of  all  he  shall  be  frozen  up  in  the  torments 
and  shall  be  lost  for  ever,  in  that  he  hath  re- 
ceived the  boon  of  the  first  mystery  and  hath 

not  continued  therein." 

20 


306  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

Mary  answered  and  said :  "  Well,  then,  0 
Of  theun-     Master,  if  a  man  shall  receive  the  mys- 

endmg  for-  J 

giveness  of    ^ery  m  the  mystery  of  that  ineffable, 

them  that  J  J  J 

have  re-        anol   shall  transgress  and  fall  away  in 

ceived  the  >  ° 

mystery  of     his  faith,   and  afterwards,   during    his 

the  inef- 
fable, life,  shall  turn   and   repent,  how  many 

times  will  his  sin  be  remitted  ?  " 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
"  Amen,  amen,  I  say  unto  you,  every  one  who 
shall  receive  the  mysteries  of  that  ineffable,  not 
only  if  he  transgress  once  and  turn  again  and 
repent,  shall  his  sin  be  remitted,  but  also  if  he 
transgress  any  number  of  times,  and  then,  while 
still  in  life,  turn  again  and  repent,  and  should 
he  not  be  a  hypocrite,  but  turn  again  and  repent 
and  offer  prayers  in  each  of  his  mysteries,  it  shall 
be  forgiven  him  every  time,  in  that  he  hath 
received  the  boon  of  the  mysteries  of  that  in- 
effable, (307)  and  in  that  those  mysteries  are 
compassionate  and  ever  give  pardon." 

And  Mary  answered  again  and  said  unto 
Jesus  :  "  Well,  then,  0  Master,  as  to  those  that 
receive  the  mysteries  of  that  ineffable,  and  again 
turn  back  and  commit  sin,  and  fall  away  in  their 
faith,  and  who  also  pass  from  the  body  without 
repentance,  what  will  happen  to  men  of  that 
kind  ?  M 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
"  Amen,  amen,  I  say  unto  you,  all  men  who  shall 


SECOND   BOOK.  307 

receive  the  mysteries  of  that  ineffable,   blessed 

indeed  are  the  souls  that  shall  receive   Of  such  ini- 
tiated who 

those  mysteries,  but  if  they  turn  back   die  without 

J  <  J  repent- 

and  sin,  if  they  pass  out  of  the  body  ance. 
without  repentance,  for  such  men  their  judgment 
is  worse  than  any,  other,  nay  is  the  severest  of 
all ;  even  should  such  souls  be  new  and  it  should 
be  their  first  coming  into  the  world,  they  shall 
not  pass  back  into  the  transmigration  of  the 
world  of  bodies  from  that  time  forth,  and 
shall  have  no  further  field  for  action,  but  they 
shall  be  cast  forth  without  into  the  outer  dark- 
ness, and  they  shall  perish  and  be  non-existent 
for  the  eternity." 

And  when  the  saviour  had  said  these  things, 
he  said  unto  his  disciples  :  "  Understand  ye  how 
I  speak  unto  you  ? "  (308)  Mary  answered  and 
said :  "  Yea,  Master,  I  have  seized  upon  the 
words    which   thou    hast   said.      Now,    Maryinter- 

preteth  the 

therefore,  0   Master,  this  is  the  word   same  from 

a  former 

which  thou  hast  said,  '  They  who  shall  saying. 
receive  the  mysteries  of  that  ineffable,  blessed 
indeed  are  those  souls  ;  but  if  they  turn  back 
and  sin,  and  if  they  fall  away  in  their  faith,  and 
pass  out  of  the  body  without  repentance,  from 
that  moment,  they  are  no  more  fit  to  pass  back 
into  the  transmigrations  of  body,  nor  for  any- 
thing else ;  but  they  shall  be  cast  forth  without 
into   the   outer   darkness,  they  shall   perish    in 


308  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

that    region,    and     be     non-existent     for    the 
eternity.' 

"  Concerning  this  word  thou  hast  spoken  unto 
us  aforetime,  saying,  '  Salt  is  good ;  but  if  the 
salt  have  lost  its  savour,  wherewith  shall  it  be 
salted  ?  It  is  fit  neither  for  the  dunghill  nor  for 
the  earth  ;  they  cast  it  away ' ;  that  is  to  say, 
the  soul  that  shall  receive  the  mysteries  of  that 
ineffable,  is  [indeed]  blessed,  but  should  it  once 
transgress  [without  repentance],  it  is  no  longer 
fit  to  come  back  into  the  body  henceforth  from 
that  hour,  nor  [is  it  fit]  for  anything  else,  but  it 
is  cast  out  into  the  outer  darkness,  that  it  may 
perish  there." 

And  when  she  had  spoken  these  words,  the 
saviour  said  :  "  Well  said,  Mary,  thou  spiritual 
one  of  pure  light  ;  that  is  the  interpretation  of 
the  saying." 

(309)  And  Mary  continued  and  said  :  "  Again, 
0  Master,  as  to  them  that  shall  have  received 
the  mysteries  of  the  first  mystery  and  the 
mystery  of  that  ineffable,  and  who  have  not 
yet  transgressed,  whose  faith  in  the  mysteries 
is  true  without  hypocrisy,  but  who  by  the 
necessity  of  fate  shall  come  to  sin  again,  and 
shall  again  turn  and  make  repentance,  and  offer 
prayer  anew  in  all  the  mysteries  [they  have 
received],  how  often  shall  it  be  remitted  unto 
them  ?  " 


SECOND   BOOK.  309 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  in  the 
midst  of  his  disciples  :  "  All  those  who   0f  the  ab_ 
shall  have  received  the  mysteries  of  the   solu*e  co?* 

J  passion  of 

ineffable  and  also  the  mysteries  of  the   *hf  abso" 

J  lute  mys- 

first  mystery,  should  they  by  the  ne-  tery- 
cessity  of  the  fate  sin  no  matter  how  many  times, 
but,  while  still  in  life,  should  turn  and  repent, 
and  should  continue  each  in  his  several  mysteries, 
it  shall  be  remitted  unto  them  no  matter  how 
many  times,  for  those  mysteries  are  compassion- 
ate and  ever  give  pardon.  For  those  mysteries 
shall  not  only  remit  the  sins  which  they  shall  have 
committed  from  the  beginning,  but  they  shall 
not  impute  [sin]  to  them  henceforth  from  that 
hour,  [for]  I  have  said  unto  you  that  they  ever 
receive  repentance,  and  that  they  give  remission 
for  sins  that  are  committed  again  and  again. 

(310)  "If,  also,  they  who  shall  have  received 
the  mystery  of  that  ineffable  and  the   3^*  *h? 

J  J  initiated 

mysteries   of  the   first  mystery,  turn   are  watched 

*  j        j  '  over  in 

back  and  commit  sin,  and  if  they  pass   passing 

J    ■"■  from  the 

out  of  the  body  without  repentance,  body. 
[then]  they  too  shall  be  like  those  that  have 
transgressed  and  have  not  repented.  Their 
habitation  also  shall  be  in  the  midst  of  the  jaws 
of  the  dragon  of  outer  darkness,  they  shall  perish, 
they  shall  be  non-existent  for  ever.  For  this 
cause  have  I  said  unto  you  that  every  man  who 
shall  receive  the  mysteries,  and  who  shall  not 


310  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

know  the  time  of  his  passing  from  the  body,  he 
shall  receive  guidance  that  he  may  not  sin,  and 
that  he  may  inherit  the  kingdom  of  light  for 
ever." 

When,  then,  the  saviour  had  thus  spoken 
unto  his  disciples,  he  said  unto  them  :  "  Under- 
stand ye  how  I  speak  unto  you  ? " 

Mary  answered  and  said :  "  Yea,  Master, 
Mary  in-  accurately  and  thoroughly  have  I  seized 
th^same11  everv  word  which  thou  hast  uttered, 
former  sa  Concerning  this  saying,  then,  thou  hast 
ins-  spoken  unto  us  aforetime,  '  If  the  master 

of  the  house  should  know  at  what  hour  the  thief 
will  come  in  the  night  to  break  into  the  house, 
he  would  keep  awake  and  not  suffer  the  fellow 
to  break  into  his  house.' " 

And  when  Mary  had  said  these  things  the 
saviour  said  :  "  Well  said,  0  Mary,  thou  spiritual 
one  ;  that  is  the  word." 

The  saviour  then  continued  and  said  unto 
his  disciples  :  "  Now,  therefore,  preach  ye  unto 
every  man  who  shall  receive  the  mysteries  in 
the  light,  and  speak  unto  them,  saying,  (311) 
'  Beware  of  falling  back  into  sin,  lest  ye  be  cast 
from  one  into  another,  and  pass  from  your 
body  without  repentance,  and  be  strangers  to 
the  kingdom  of  light  for  ever.' " 

And  when  the  saviour  had  said  these  words 
Mary  answered  and  said  :  "  Master,  great  is  the 


SECOND   BOOK.  311 

compassion  of  those  mysteries  which  ever  remit 


sins." 


The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  in 
the  midst  of  the  disciples:  "If  even  ifevennien 
a  king  of  to-day,  a  man  of  the  world,  ™™r^. are 
granteth  boons  unto  them  who  are  like   flonate> 

o  how  much 

unto    him,    if    he    moreover    granteth   Sor®. t}!ent 

7  °  the  highest 

pardon  unto  murderers,  and  them  mystery. 
that  are  guilty  of  intercourse  with  males,  and 
other  horrible  and  capital  crimes  ;  if,  I  say,  it  is 
in  the  power  even  of  one  who  is  a  man  of  the 
world  to  act  thus,  much  more  then  have  that 
ineffable  and  that  first  mystery,  who  are  the  lords 
of  the  whole  pleroma,  power  over  everything  to 
do  as  they  will,  and  grant  remission  of  sin  unto 
•every  one  who  shall  have  received  the  mystery. 

"  Again,  if  even  a  king  of  to-day  investeth  a 
soldier  with  the  royal  mantle,  and  sendeth  him 
to  foreign  regions,  and  the  soldier  there  com- 
mitteth  murders  and  other  grave  offences,  worthy 
of  death,  and  yet  they  are  not  brought  home  to 
him,  because  he  weareth  the  royal  mantle,  how 
much  more,  then,  [is  it  the  case  with]  them 
who  are  mantled  in  the  mysteries  of  the  vestures 
of  that  ineffable  and  those  of  the  first  mystery, 
that  are  lords  over  all  them  of  the  height  and 
all  them  of  the  depth  ?  " 

After  this  Jesus  saw  a  woman,  who  drew  near 
to  make  repentance;  (312)  he  had  baptised  her 


312  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

already  three  times,  and  yet  she  was  not  worthy 
Jesus  trieth  of  the  baptisms.  And  the  saviour  de- 
sired to  try  Peter,  to  see  if  he  were  com- 
passionate and  would  grant  remission,  as  he  had 
given  commandment  unto  them ;  he  said  unto 
Peter ;  "  Lo,  thrice  have  I  baptised  this  soul, 
and  yet  after  three  times  is  she  not  worthy  of 
the  mysteries  of  light ;  therefore  hath  she 
rendered  her  body  unfit  for  baptism.  Now,. 
therefore,  Peter,  do  thou  perform  the  mystery 
which  cutteth  off  souls  from  the  inheritance 
of  light ;  celebrate  the  mystery  which  cutteth  off 
this  woman  from  the  inheritance  of  light." 

When,  therefore,  the  saviour  had  said  these 
words,  he  tried  Peter  to  see  whether  he  were 
compassionate  and  would  grant  remission.  And 
when  the  saviour  had  spoken  these  words,  Peter 
answered  and  said  :  "  Master,  pardon  her  yet 
once  again  this  time,  so  that  we  may  give  unto 
her  the  higher  mysteries  ;  and,  if  she  prove  her- 
self fit  [for  receiving  them],  thou  wilt  have  her  in- 
herit the  kingdom  of  light,  but  if  she  prove  unfit, 
thou  wilt  cut  her  off  from  the  kingdom  of  light." 

When,  therefore,  Peter  had  thus  spoken,  the 
saviour  knew  that  Peter  was  compassionate  like 
unto  himself  and  would  give  pardon.  And  when 
all  this  was  done,  the  saviour  said  unto  his  dis- 
ciples :  "  Have  ye  understood  all  these  words 
and  also  the  type  of  this  woman  ?  " 


SECOND   BOOK.  313 

(313)  And  Mary  answered  and  said  :  "0 
Master,  I  have  understood  the  mys-  Maryinter- 
teries  of  the  words  which  have  been  Fncident 
spoken  concerning  this  woman.  Of  fo?Ser  say- 
the  things,  therefore,  which  have  been  mg" 
done  unto  her  thou  didst  speak  unto  us  afore- 
time in  parable,  saying,  '  A  certain  man  had  a 
fig-tree  in  his  garden,  and  came  to  find  if 
there  were  any  fruit  thereon,  and  found 
none.  He  said  to  the  gardener,  "  Lo  three 
years  that  I  come  to  find  fruit  on  this  fig- 
tree,  and  I  find  none  thereon ;  therefore  cut 
it  down,  for  it  wasteth  the  soil."  But  he 
answered  and  said  unto  him,  "Master,  let  it 
remain  one  more  year,  until  I  dig  about  it,  and 
manure  it ;  and  if  it  bear  fruit  next  year,  thou 
shalt  let  it  remain,  but  if  thou  [still]  find  none 
thereon,  thou  shalt  cut  it  down."  This,  0 
Master,  is  the  interpretation  of  the  saying." 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Marv  : 
"  Well  said,  thou  spiritual  one ;  that  is  [the 
interpretation  of]  the  saying." 

And  Mary  continued  and  said  unto  the 
saviour :  "  Again,  Master,  as  to  the  man,  who 
hath  received  the  mysteries,  and  hath  not  acted 
in  a  manner  worthy  of  them,  but  hath  turned 
back  and  sinned,  and  then  again  hath  repented 
in  great  contrition,  is  it  lawful  for  my  brethren 
to  give  him   once  more  the  mystery  which  he 


314  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

hath  received ;  and  if  not,  may   they  give   him 
one  of  the  lower  mysteries  ?  " 

(314)  The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto 
in  the  case  Mary  :  "  Amen,  amen,  I  say  unto  you, 
ancefoniy  neither  the  mystery  which  he  hath 
mysteries  received,  nor  any  lower  mystery  can 
previously6  grant  the  remission  of  his  sins  ;  it  must 
caifremit      be    the    mysteries    higher   than    those 


sms 


which  he  hath  received,  which  can  give 
ear  unto  him  and  grant  the  remission  of  his  sins. 
Now,  therefore,  0  Mary,  let  thy  brethren  give 
him  a  higher  mystery  than  that  which  he  hath 
received,  and  his  repentance  shall  be  heard  and 
his  sins  be  forgiven  him.  The  mystery  which 
he  may  receive  a  second  time  or  any  number  of 
times,  will  not  grant  him  the  remission  of  his 
sin,  but  only  a  higher  mystery  to  the  one  he 
hath  [previously]  received  will  grant  him  re- 
mission. But  if  he  have  [already]  received  the 
three  mysteries  in  the  two  spaces  or  in  the  third, 
and  [then]  turneth  back  and  transgresseth, 
no  mystery  can  give  ear  unto  him  to  help  him 
in  his  repentance,  neither  mysteries  higher 
nor  lower  than  the  one  he  hath  received,  save 
only  the  mystery  of  the  first  mystery  and  the 
mystery  of  that  ineffable.  It  is  these  that 
shall  give  ear  unto  him  and  receive  his  repent- 


ance". 


And    Mary  answered  and  said :    "  Again,   0 


SECOND   BOOK.  315 

Master,  as  to  the  man  who  hath  received  the 
mysteries  twice  or  thrice  (315)  in  the  two  spaces 
and  in  the  third,  and  hath  not  transgressed,  but 
continueth  in  his  faith  truly  and  without 
hypocrisy,  [what  of  him]  ?  " 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
"  Every    one    who    hath    received  the   1The^eiisi?10 

J  limit  to  the 

mysteries  in  the  two  spaces  or  in  the   number  of 

J  x  mysteries 

third,  and  who  hath  not  transgressed,    the  faithful 

_  may  re- 

but   remain eth    in    his    faith    without    ceive. 

hypocrisy,  it  is  lawful  for  such  to  receive   the 

mysteries  in  any  [of  the  rest  of  the]  spaces  they 

will,  from  the  first  to  the  last,  for  they  have  not 

transgressed." 

And  Mary  continued  and  said :  "  Again, 
Master,  [as  to]  the  man  who  hath  known  the 
godhead  and  hath  received  one  of  the  mysteries 
of  light,  and  [then]  hath  turned  back  and  trans- 
gressed and  done  iniquity,  and  hath  not  turned 
again  and  repented,  and  also  [as  to]  the  man 
who  hath  not  found  the  godhead,  and  hath  not 
known  it,  and  who  is  a  sinner,  and  still  an  im- 
pious person  ;  both  of  these  men  come  to  pass 
out  of  the  body,  which  of  the  two,  [then,]  will 
suffer  most  in  the  judgments  ?  " 

The  saviour  answered  again  and  said  unto 
Mary  :  "  Amen,  amen,  I  say  unto  thee,  the  man 
who  hath  known  the  godhead,  who  hath  received 
the  mysteries  of  light,  who  hath  sinned  without 


316  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

turning  again  and  repenting,  he  shall  suffer  in 
The  fate  of    ^q    torments     of    the    judgments,  in 

the  miti-  J        °  ' 

atedwho       pains  and   judgments  (316)    far  more 

sinneth  is        r  jo  \  / 

more  numerous  and  far   more  terrible  than 

terrible 

than  that  of   the    impious    and    sinning    man    who 

the  ignor- 

ant  sinner,  hath  not  known  the  godhead.  Now, 
therefore,  he  that  hath  ears  to  hear,  let  him  hear." 
When  the  saviour  had  spoken  these  words, 
Marvin-  Mary  came  forward  and  said  :  "  Master, 
terpreteth         y  mc[we]ier  0f  light  hath  ears  and  I 

the  same  J  o 

from  a         have  understood  every  word  which  thou 

former  J 

saying.  \&$x  spoken.  Concerning  this  saying 
thou  didst  speak  unto  us  aforetime  in  parable, 
saying,  '  The  servant  who  knoweth  the  will  of 
his  master,  and  yet  hath  not  made  ready  nor 
done  the  will  of  his  master,  shall  receive  many 
stripes,  but  he  who  hath  not  known  and  hath 
not  done  [the  will  of  his  master],  shall  receive 
but  few.  For  to  whom  more  hath  been  en- 
trusted, of  him  more  shall  be  asked,  and  to 
whom  many  things  have  been  committed,  of  him 
many  shall  be  required.'  That  is  to  say,  0 
Master,  he  who  knoweth  the  godhead  and  hath 
found  all  the  mysteries  of  the  light,  and  [then] 
hath  transgressed,  he  shall  be  punished  with 
greater  chastisements  than  him  who  hath  not 
known  the  godhead.  This,  0  Master,  is  the 
interpretation  of  the  word." 

And  Mary  continued  further  and  said    unto 


SECOND   BOOK.  317 

the  saviour  :  "  Master,  if  the  faith  and  mysteries 
become  generally  known,  now,  therefore,  if  souls 
return  to  [birth  in]  the  world  for  many  cycles, 
and  are  indifferent  so  that  they  do  not  receive 
the  mysteries,  in  the  belief  that  when  they 
return  to  the  world  in  another  cycle,  they  will 
receive  them,  shall  they  not,  then,  suffer  misery 
in  order  that  they  may  be  brought  to  receive 
the  mysteries  ?  " 

(317)  The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  his 
disciples  :  "  Preach  ye  unto  the  whole   °[ them 

*  J  who  pro- 

WOrld,    saying   unto  men,    '  Strive   to-    crastmate, 

J      °  saying  they 

gether  that  ye  may  receive  the  mys-   have  many 

6  ....  births  be- 

teries  of  light  in  this  time  of  stress,  fore  them. 
and  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  light.  Put  not 
off  from  day  to  day,  and  from  cycle  to  cycle, 
in  the  belief  that  ye  will  succeed  in  obtaining 
the  mysteries  when  ye  return  to  the  world  in 
another  cycle.' 

"  Such  men  know  not  when  the  number  of 
perfect  souls  shall  [be  filled  up]  ;  for  when  the 
number  of  perfect  souls  shall  be  completed,  I 
will  then  shut  the  gates  of  the  light,  and  from 
that  time  none  will  be  able  to  come  in  thereby, 
nor  will  any  go  forth  thereafter,  for  the  number 
of  perfect  souls  shall  be  [completed],  and  the 
mystery  of  the  first  mystery  is  perfected — [the 
mystery]  whereby  all  hath  come  into  existence, 
and  I  am  that  mystery. 


318  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

"  From  that  hour  no  one  shall  any  more  enter 

Of  the  time  m^° tne  %nt> an(^  none  shall  come  forth, 
of  the  end.     -n    ^at   ^q   time   of  the   number  of 

perfect  souls  shall  be  fulfilled,  [only  just]  before 
I  set  fire  to  the  world,  that  it  may  purify  the 
aeons,  and  veils,  the  firmaments  and  the  whole 
world,  and  also  all  the  matters  that  are  still  in 
it,  the  race  of  human  kind  being  still  upon  it. 
(318)  "At  that  time,  then,  the  faith  will 
They  who     show    itself    forth    more    and    more, 

procrastm-  7 

ate  are  ex-    anc[    a}s0     the     mysteries     in     those 

eluded  from  J 

the  light.  days.  And  many  souls  shall  pass 
through  the  cycles  of  transmigrations  of  body 
and  come  back  into  the  world  in  those  days ; 
and  among  them  shall  be  some  who  are  now 
alive  and  hear  me  teach  concerning  the  con- 
summation of  the  number  of  perfect  souls,  [and 
in  those  days]  they  shall  find  the  mysteries  of 
light,  and  shall  receive  them.  They  shall  mount 
up  to  the  gates  of  the  light,  and  shall  find  that 
the  number  of  perfect  souls  is  complete,  which  is 
the  consummation  of  the  first  mystery  and  the 
gnosis  of  the  pleroma ;  they  will  find  that  I  have 
shut  the  gates  of  the  light,  and  that  from  that 
hour  no  one  can  come  in  or  go  forth  thereby. 

"  These  souls  then  will  cry  within  through  the 
Their  en-  gates  °f  ^e  %at>  saymg>  'Master, 
the^atesof  °Pen  unto  us.'  And  I  will  answer 
light.  unto  them,  saying, '  I  know  not  whence 


SECOND   BOOK.  319 

ye  are.'  And  they  will  say  unto  me,  '  We 
have  received  the  mysteries,  and  we  have 
fulfilled  all  thy  doctrine  ;  thou  didst  teach  us 
on  the  high  ways.'  And  I  will  answer  unto 
them  saying,  '  I  know  not  who  ye  are,  ye  who 
have  practised  iniquity  and  evil  even  unto  this 
day.  Wherefore  go  [hence]  into  the  outer 
darkness.'  (319)  Forthwith  they  will  depart  to 
the  outer  darkness,  where  there  is  weeping  and 
gnashing  of  teeth. 

"  For  this  cause,  therefore,  preach  ye  to  the 
whole  world,  saying,  '  Strive  ye  together ;  re- 
nounce the  whole  world  and  all  the  matter 
therein  ;  receive  the  mysteries  of  light  before 
the  number  of  perfect  souls  is  completed, 
that  ye  may  not  be  left  before  the  gates 
of  the  light  and  sent  away  into  the  outer 
darkness.' 

"  Now,  therefore,  he  that  hath  ears  to  hear, 
let  him  hear." 

When  the  saviour  had  said  these  words,  Mary 
came    forward    again    and    said :     "  0    Mafy inter- 

°  pretetn 

Master,  not  only  hath  my  indweller  of  the  same- 
light  ears,  but  my  soul  also  hath  heard  and 
understood  all  the  words  which  thou  hast 
spoken.  Now,  therefore,  0  Master,  concerning 
the  words  which  thou  hast  spoken,  to  wit, 
1  Preach  ye  to  the  men  of  the  world  and  say 
unto  them,    "  Strive  ye  together,  receive  ye  the 


320  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

mysteries  of  the  light,  in   this   time   of  stress, 
that  ye  may  inherit  the  kingdom  of  light,  .  .  . 


And  Mary  continued  further  and  said  unto 
Jesus :  "  Again,  Master,  of  what  type  is  the 
outer  darkness  ?  How  many  regions  of  punish- 
ment are  there  therein  ? " 

And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  Mary : 
Of  the  "  The  outer  darkness  is  a  huge  dragon, 

outfr^ark-  witn  its  tail  m  ^8  mouth  ;  it  is  outside 
ness*  the   world   and   surroundeth   it    com- 

pletely. There  are  many  regions  of  punishment 
therein,  for  there  are  in  it  twelve  [main]  dungeons 
of  horrible  torment. 

(320)  "  In  each  dungeon  there  is  a  ruler ; 
ofthe  and    the    faces  of  the    rulers    are   all 

theetweive     different  from  one  another. 

andThek  "The    fifSt     mler'    m     the    firSt    dun_ 

names.  geon,  is  crocodile-faced,  and  it  hath  its 
tail  in  its  mouth.  From  the  jaws  of  this  dragon 
there  come  forth  cold  of  every  kind  and  freez- 
ing, and  all  diseases  of  every  kind  :  it  is  called 
by  its  authentic  name,  in  its  region,  Enchthonin. 

"  And  the  ruler  in  the  second  dungeon ;  its 
authentic  face  is  a  cat's :  it  is  called,  in  its 
region,  Charachar. 

"  And  the  ruler  in  the  third  dungeon  ;    its 


SECOND   BOOK.  321 

authentic  face  is  a  dog's  :  it  is  called,  in  its 
region,  Acharoch. 

"  And  the  ruler  in  the  fourth  dungeon  ;  its 
authentic  face  is  a  serpent's :  it  is  called,  in  its 
region,  Achrochar. 

"  And  the  ruler  in  the  fifth  dungeon ;  its 
authentic  face  is  a  black  bull's  :  it  is  called,  in 
its  region,  Marchour. 

"  And  the  ruler  in  the  sixth  dungeon ;  its 
authentic  face  is  a  boar's  :  it  is  called,  in  its 
region,  Lamchamor. 

(321)  "  And  the  ruler  in  the  seventh  dungeon  ; 
its  authentic  face  is  a  bear's :  it  is  called,  in  its 
region,  by  its  authentic  name,  Louchar. 

"  And  the  ruler  in  the  eighth""  dungeon  ;  its 
authentic  face  is  a  vulture's  :  it  is  called,  in  its 
region,  Laraoch. 

"  And  the  ruler  in  the  ninth  dungeon ;  its 
authentic  face  is  a  basilisk's  :  it  is  called,  in  its 
region,  Archeoch. 

"  And  in  the  tenth  dungeon  are  many  rulers  ; 
each  of  them,  in  its  authentic  face,  hath  seven 
dragons'  heads  :  and  that  which  is  above  them 
all,  in  their  region,  is  called,  Xarmaroch. 

"  And  in  the  eleventh  dungeon,  in  this  region 

also,    are    many    rulers ;    each    of    them,    with 

authentic  faces,  hath  seven  cats'  heads  :  and  the 

great  one  that  is  over  them,  is  called,  in  their 

region,  Rhochar. 

21 


322  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

"  And  in  the  twelfth  dungeon  there  are  also 
many  rulers  exceedingly  numerous,  each  of  them 
in  its  authentic  face,  hath  seven  dogs'  heads  : 
and  the  great  one  that  is  over  them,  is  called  in 
their  region,  Chremaor. 

"  These  rulers,  then,  of  these  twelve  dungeons, 
which  are  in  the  inside  of  the  dragon  of  outer 
darkness,  each  hatha  name  for  every  hour,  (322) 
and  each  of  them  changeth  its  face  every  hour. 

"  And  each  of  these  dungeons  hath  a  door 
9fthe,i1      which   openeth  to  the  height,  so   that 

doors  of  the  r  &      ' 

dungeons.  ^he  dragon  of  outer  darkness  containeth 
twelve  dungeons  of  darkness,  each  of  which  hath 
a  door  that  openeth  to  the  height ;  and  an  angel 
of  the  height  watcheth  at  each  of  the  doors  of 
the  dungeons. 

"  These  Ieou,  the  first  man,  the  overseer  of 
The  angels  the  light,  the  ancient  of  the  first  statute, 
atatheatC  na^n  set  to  watch  over  the  dragon,  lest 
doors.  ^Q  dragon  and  its  rulers  should  turn 

the  dungeons  that  are  in  it  upside  down." 

And  when  the  saviour  had  thus  spoken,  Mary 
Magdalene  answered  and  said  :  "  Master,  are  the 
souls,  then,  that  are  brought  into  that  region, 
led  into  it  by  these  twelve  doors,  by  each  accord- 
ing to  the  judgment  they  have  merited  ?  y' 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
What  souls   "  ^°  soul  is  brought  into  the  dragon 
theSdragon,   by  these  doors ;  but  the  souls  of  blas- 
phemers, and  of  them  that  remain  in 


■."., 


SECOND   BOOK.  323 

the  doctrines  of  error,  and  of  those  who  teach 
such  doctrines,  and  also  of  them  that  have  inter- 
course with  males,  of  the  polluted  and  impious, 
atheists,  murderers,  adulterers,  sorcerers,  all 
souls,  then,  of  this  kind,  if  they  have  not  re- 
pented while  still  in  life,  and  have  remained 
persistently  in  their  sin,  (323)  and  all  the  other 
souls  which  have  remained  without  [the  light- 
world],  that  is  to  say,  who  have  exhausted  the 
number  of  the  cycles  apportioned  to  them  in  the 
sphere  without  repenting — they  take  hold  of 
those  souls,  in  their  last  cycle,  them  and  all  the 
souls  which  I  have  just  enumerated  for  you,  and 
carry  them  through  the  opening  in  the  tail  of 
the  dragon  into  the  dungeons  of  the  outer  dark- 
ness. And  when  they  have  finished  bringing 
those  souls  into  the  outer  darkness  by  the  open- 
ing in  its  tail,  it  putteth  back  its  tail  again  into  (<y^^ 
its  mouth  and  shutteth  them  in.  This  is  the 
way  in  which  souls  are  brought  into  the  outer 
darkness. 

"  And  the  dragon  of  the  outer  darkness  hath 
twelve  authentic  names  which  are  The  nature 
written  on  its  doors,  a  name  for  the  °*  ??a  nf 
door  of  every  dungeon ;  and  these  the  drason- 
twelve  names  are  all  different  from  one  another, 
but  all  twelve  are  contained  one  in  the  other,  so 
that  he  who  uttereth  one  name  will  utter  all. 
And  these  will  I  tell  you,  when  I  explain  the 


^> 


324  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

emanation  of  the  pleroma.  This,  then,  is  the 
way  in  which  is  the  outer  darkness,  which  is  also 
the  dragon." 

When  the  saviour  had  spoken  these  things,  Mary- 
answered  and  said  unto  the  saviour  :  (324) 
"  Master,  are  the  torments  of  this  dragon  terrible 
beyond  the  punishment  of  all  the  judgments  ?  " 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
Of  the  a  £j0t  onjy  are  they  more  painful  than 

severity  of  j  j  r 

the  tor-        an  the  chastisements  of  the  judgments, 

ments  of  °       ° 

the  dragon,  but  every  soul  that  shall  be  carried  into 
that  region  shall  be  imprisoned  in  relentless  ice, 
in  the  hail  and  scorching  fire  which  are  therein. 
And  in  the  dissolution  of  the  world,  that  is  to 
say  in  the  ascension  of  the  pleroma,  these  souls 
shall  perish  in  the  relentless  ice  and  scorching 
fire,  and  shall  be  non-existent  for  the  eternity." 

Mary  answered  and  said  :  "  Woe  for  the  souls 
of  sinners  !  Now,  therefore,  0  Master,  whether 
is  the  fire  in  the  world  of  human  kind  or  the  fire 
in  Amenti  the  fiercer  ?  " 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
Of  the  vari-    «  Amen,  I  say  unto  thee,  the  fire  in 

ous  degrees  J 

of  the  fires    Amenti  scorcheth  far  more  than  the  fire 

of  the  tor- 
ments, among  men,  nine  times  more. 

"  And  the  fire  which  is  in  the  punishments  of 
the  great  chaos  is  nine  times  fiercer  than  the 
fire  in  Amenti. 

"  And  the  fire  which  is  in  the  judgments  of 


SECOND   BOOK.  325 

the  rulers  who  are  in  the  way  of  the  midst,  is 
nine  times  fiercer  than  the  fire  of  the  punish- 
ments which  are  in  the  great  chaos. 

(325)  "  And  the  fire  which  is  in  the  dragon  of 
outer  darkness,  and  all  the  torments  which  it 
containeth,  are  fiercer  far  than  the  fire  which  is 
in  the  chastisements  and  judgments  of  the  rulers 
who  are  in  the  way  of  the  midst — this  fire  is 
fiercer  than  they  seventy  times." 

And  when  the  saviour  had  said  this  unto 
Mary,  she  smote  her  breast,  she  cried   T.hedis- 

■'  ciples  be- 

OUt  aloud,  with   tears,  and  all  the  dis-    wail  tne 

fate  of 

ciples  with  her,  saying  :  "  Woe  for  the   sinners. 
sinners,    for    their    torments     are    exceedingly 
great." 

And  Mary  came  forward,  she  threw  herself  at 
the  feet  of  Jesus  and  worshipped  them,  saying  : 
"  Master,  bear  with  me  if  I  question  thee,  and 
be  not  wroth  with  me  for  troubliog  thee  many 
times,  for  from  this  moment  I  will  question  thee 
on  every  matter  with  precision." 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
"  Ask  on  every  matter  that  thou  wilt,  and  I  will 
reveal  it  unto  thee  in  openness  without  parable." 

Mary  answered  and  said  :  "  Again,  0  Master, 
[supposing]  a  righteous  man,  who  hath   Mary  fur- 
accomplished  all  the  mysteries,  and  he   tioneth6* 
hath  a  kinsman,  in  a  word  some  [dear] 
one,  and  this  one  is  impious,  and  hath  committed 


326  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

sins  which  deserve  the  outer  darkness,  and  hath 
not  repented,  or  if  he  have  exhausted  the  number 
of  the  cycles  of  transmigration  into  body,  and 
hath  not  done  one  useful  action,  and  hath  passed 
from  the  body,  and  if  we  know  for  certain  that 
he  hath  deserved  the  outer  darkness,  (326)  what, 
then,  shall  we  do  to  save  him  from  the  torments 
of  the  dragon  of  outer  darkness,  and  have  him 
carried  into  a  righteous  body  which  shall  find 
the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom  of  light,  that  he 
may  continue  righteous  and  enter  into  the  height 
and  inherit  the  kingdom  of  light  ?  " 

The  saviour  answered  and   said  unto    Mary  : 
How  to         «  rjn  £ne  case  of]  a  sinner  who  hath 

save  the  L  J 

souls  of  the   deserved  the  outer  darkness,  or  again 

uninitiated  7  ° 

after  death.  0f  one  wno  hath  committed  sin  deserv- 
ing any  of  the  punishments  of  the  rest  of  the 
punishments,  and  hath  not  repented,  or  [in  the 
case  of]  a  sinner  who  hath  exhausted  the  num- 
ber of  cycles  in  the  transmigration  into  body, 
and  hath  not  repented — in  the  case  of  such  men 
whom  I  have  mentioned,  when  they  pass  out  of 
the  body,  they  are  taken  into  the  outer  dark- 
ness ;  now,  therefore,  if  you  will  have  them 
taken  out  of  the  torments  of  the  outer  darkness 
and  every  judgment,  and  have  them  brought 
into  a  righteous  body  which  shall  find  the  mys- 
teries of  the  light,  that  they  may  enter  into  the 
height  and  inherit  the  kingdom  of   light,  cele- 


SECOND   BOOK.  327 

brate  the  one  and  only  mystery  of  that  ineffable 
which  ever  remitteth  sins,  and  when  ye  have 
finished  the  celebration  of  that  mystery,  say, 
'  May  the  soul  of  such  or  such  a  man  of  whom 
I  think  in  my  heart ' — if  it  be  in  the  region  of 
the  torments  of  the  dungeons  of  outer  darkness 
or  in  the  other  torments  of  the  dragons — (327) 
*  be  taken  out  of  these  [torments]  ' — or  if  it  have 
exhausted  the  number  of  its  cycles  of  trans- 
migrations, '  may  it  be  brought  unto  the  virgin 
of  light,'  that  the  virgin  of  light  may  seal  it 
with  the  seal  of  the  ineffable,  and  no  matter 
what  month  it  be,  pour  it  into  a  righteous  body, 
which  shall  find  the  mysteries  of  light,  that  it 
may  become  good,  and  enter  into  the  height, 
and  inherit  the  kingdom  of  light. 

"  And  if  it  have  exhausted  the  cycles  of  trans- 
migration, that  soul  shall  be  brought   How  the 
unto  the  seven  virgins   of  light  who   wnlsave 
preside  over  baptism,  that   they  may   that  have1 
baptise  that  soul,  and  seal  it  with  the   chance  of 
sign  of  the  kingdom  of  that  ineffable,   re-birth- 
and  bring  it  into  the  orders  of  the  light.     This 
then  will  ye  say  when  ye  have  celebrated  the 
mystery. 

"  Amen,  I  say  unto  you,  if  the  soul  for  which 
ye  shall  pray,  is  in  the  dragon  of  outer  darkness, 
[the  dragon]  shall  take  its  tail  out  of  its  jaws 
and  let  that  soul  escape  ;    and   if  it  be  in  any 


328  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

region  whatever  of  the  judgments  of  the  rulers, 
amen,  I  say  unto  you,  the  receivers  of  Mel- 
chisedec  shall  speedily  take  charge  of  it,  whether 
the  dragon  have  let  it  escape,  or  it  be  in  the 
judgment  of  the  rulers,  in  a  word,  the  receivers 
of  Melchisedec  shall  take  charge  of  it,  no  matter 
in  what  region  it  be,  (328)  and  will  bring  it  into 
the  region  of  the  midst  unto  the  virgin  of  light, 
and  the  virgin  of  light  will  examine  it  to  see  if 
the  sign  of  the  kingdom  of  that  ineffable  is  in 
that  soul. 

"And  if  it  hath  not  yet  completed  the  num- 
ber of  the  cycles  of  changes  of  soul  or  of  em- 
bodiments, the  virgin  of  light  will  seal  it  with 
an  excellent  seal  and  will  have  it  poured  in  that 
very  month  into  a  righteous  body  which  shall  find 
the  mysteries  of  light,  and  it  shall  become  good, 
that  it^may  enter  into  the  height  into  the  king- 
dom of  light. 

"  And  if  that  soul  hath  exhausted  the  number 
of  the  cycles,  the  virgin  of  light  will  test  it,  but 
will  not  suffer  it  to  be  chastised,  although  it 
have  completed  the  number  of  its  cycles,  but 
will  hand  it  over  to  the  seven  virgins  of  light, 
and  the  seven  virgins  of  light  will  examine  that 
soul,  and  will  baptise  it  in  their  baptisms,  they 
will  give  it  the  spiritual  chrism,  and  will  bring 
it  into  the  treasure  of  light,  to  set  it  in  the 
last  order  of  the   light,  until    the  ascension  of 


SECOND   BOOK.  329 

the  whole  number  of  perfect  souls.  And  when 
they  shall  be  about  to  draw  aside  the  veils  of 
the  region  of  them  of  the  right,  they  shall  cleanse 
that  soul  anew  and  will  purify  it,  they  will 
make  it  pure  so  as  to  set  it  in  the  orders  of  the 
first  saviour  in  the  treasure  of  light." 

(329)  It  came  to  pass  when  the  saviour  had 
finished  speaking  these  words  unto  his  disciples, 
that  Marv  answered  and  said  unto  Jesus : 
"  Master,  I  have  heard  thee  say,  '  He  who  shall 
receive  the  mysteries  of  that  ineffable  or  who 
shall  receive  the  mysteries  of  the  first  mysteries, 
they  will  become  flames  of  light,  or  streams  of 
light,  that  they  may  pass  through  all  the  regions 
until  they  come  into  the  region  of  the  inherit- 
ance. 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
"  When  they  shall    have  received  the   Pf  *?e 

J  lignt- 

mystery    during    their    lifetime,    and    streams, 
have  passed   from  the  body,  they  will    become 
flames  of  light  and  streams  of  light,  that  they 
may  pass  through  every  region  until  they  enter 
the  region  of  the  inheritance. 

"  But  if  they  be  sinners  who  have  passed 
from  the  body  without  repentance,  and  if  ye 
celebrate  the  mystery  of  that  ineffable  for  them, 
to  have  them  taken  out  of  every  punishment, 
and  poured  into  a  righteous  body  which  shall  be 
good,  and  shall  inherit  the  kingdom  of  light,  or 


330  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

even  be  set  in  the  last  order  of  the  light,  [still] 
they  will  not  be  able  [of  themselves]  to  pass 
through  the  regions,  for  they  have  not  celebrated 
the  mystery  themselves ;  but  the  receivers  of 
Melchisedec  shall  come  to  find  them,  and  shall 
bring  them  unto  the  virgin  of  light,  (330)  and 
the  workmen  of  the  judge- rulers  shall  make 
exceeding  great  haste  to  hand  them  from  one  to 
the  other  in  turn,  until  they  bring  them  unto 
the  virgin  of  light." 

And  Mary  continued   further  and   said   unto 
^ar£  „        the  saviour  :  "  Again,   Master,   in  the 

pleadeth  ° 

for  them       case  0f  a  man  wno  nath  received  the 

who  have 

neglected      mysteries   of  light,   which   are  in    the 

the  mys-  J  ° 

teries.  first   space   towards   the   exterior,   and 

when  the  period  for  which  those  mysteries  are 
efficacious  is  at  an  end,  that  man  proceedeth  to 
receive  the  mysteries  which  are  in  all  the  mys- 
teries within  the  mysteries  which  he  hath 
already  received,  and  yet  that  man  is  negligent, 
and  hath  not  uttered  the  prayer  which  removeth 
the  evil  of  the  delights  which  he  hath  eaten  and 
drunk,  and  so  by  the  evil  of  the  delights  he  is 
bound  to  the  wheel  of  the  fate  of  the  rulers,  and 
by  the  necessity  of  the  elements  he  hath  again 
transgressed,  after  the  period  for  which  the 
mysteries  were  efficacious  for  him  is  at  an  end, 
in  that  he  hath  neglected  to  utter  the  prayer 
which  removeth  the  evil  of  souls  and  purifieth 


SECOND   BOOK.  331 

them  ;  [supposing]  such  a  man  passeth  out  of 
the  body  without  again  repenting,  and  without 
again  receiving  the  mysteries  in  the  mysteries 
which  are  within  the  mysteries  which  he  hath 
previously  received,  [the  mysteries]  which  are 
received  again  when  a  man  repenteth  in  order  that 
his  sins  may  be  remitted  ;  (331)  when  [then]  such 
a  man  passeth  out  of  the  body,  and  we  know  for 
certain  that  he  hath  been  cast  into  the  belly  of 
the  dragon  of  outer  darkness  because  of  the  sins 
he  hath  committed,  and  he  hath  no  help  in  the 
world,  nor  any  one  who  in  compassion  may  cele- 
brate the  mystery  of  that  ineffable,  to  have  him 
taken  out  of  the  belly  of  the  dragon  of  outer 
darkness,  and  bring  him  unto  the  kingdom  of 
light — now,  then,  0  Master,  what  shall  he  do  to 
be  saved  from  the  torments  of  the  dragon  of 
outer  darkness  ?  Abandon  him  not,  0  Master, 
for  he  hath  endured  pains  in  the  persecutions, 
and  because  of  the  godhead  in  which  he  hath 
been. 

"  Now,  therefore,  0  saviour,  have  pity  upon 
me,  that  none  of  our  kin  may  be  of  such  a  kind  ; 
and  have  mercy  upon  all  the  souls  who  shall  be 
of  this  kind,  for  thou  art  the  key  that  openeth 
the  pleroma  and  shutteth  the  pleroma,  and 
thy  mystery  containeth  all.  Have  mercy  upon 
such  souls,  0  Master,  for  [even  though]  it  were 
only  for  one  day,  they  pronounced  the  mysteries, 


332  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

and  really  believed  them  and  were  not  hypocrites. 
Yea,  Master,  grant  them  a  boon  in  thy  goodness, 
and  give  them  rest  in  thy  mercy." 

And  when  Mary  had  said  these  things,  the 
saviour  proclaimed  her  many  many  times  blessed, 
because  of  the  words  which  she  had  spoken  ; 
(332)  and  the  saviour  was  in  great  compassion, 
and  said  unto  Mary  :  "  Unto  all  who  shall  be  of 
the  type  of  which  thou  hast  spoken,  unto  them 
while  still  in  life,  give  ye  the  mystery  of  one  of 
the  twelve  names  of  the  dungeons  of  the  dragon 
of  outer  darkness,  which  I  will  give  unto  you  when 
I  shall  come  to  explain  unto  you  the  emanation 
of  the  pleroma  from  the  interior  to  the  exterior, 
and  from  the  exterior  to  the  interior. 

"  And  all  those  who  shall  obtain  the  mystery 
Oftheeffi-     0f  one  0f  £ne  twelve  names  of  that 

cacy  of  the 

names  of      dragon  of  outer  darkness,  even  though 

the  twelve  &  >  B 

rulers  of       they    be    sinners,    and    though     they 

the  dun-  J  \  . 

geons.  should    have    previously    received   the 

mysteries  of  the  light  and  then  have  transgressed, 
or  even  if  they  should  not  have  performed  any 
mystery  at  all,  such  men  when  they  shall  have 
come  to  the  end  of  their  cycles  of  transmigra- 
tions— such  men,  [then,]  if  they  pass  out  of  the 
body  without  again  repenting,  and  if  they  have 
been  carried  into  the  torments  which  are  in  the 
belly  of  the  dragon  of  outer  darkness,  and  re- 
main in  its  cycles,  remain  in  the  torments  in  the 


SECOND   BOOK.  333 

belly  of  the  dragon,  such  [souls,  I  say,]  if  they 
know  the  mystery  of  one  of  the  twelve  names  of 
the  angels,  during  their  life,  while  they  are  in 
the   world,   and    then    pronounce    one    of  their 
names  when  they  are  in  the  midst  of  the  tor- 
ments of  the  dragon,  then,  the  moment  they  shall 
pronounce  it,  the  whole  dragon  will  be  shaken  and 
will  be  thrown  into  the  greatest  possible  distress, 
and  the  door  of  the  dungeon  in  which  the  souls  of 
such  men  are,   (333)  will  open  above,  and  the 
ruler  of  the  dungeon  in  which  they  are,  will  cast 
the  souls  of  such  men  out  of  the   belly  of  the 
dragon  of  outer  darkness,  in  that  they  have  dis- 
covered the  mystery  of  the  name  of  the  dragon. 
"  And   when    the   ruler   hath    cast  out  those 
souls,  one  of  the  angels  of   Ieou,  the   The  souls 
first  man,  those  that  watch    over  the   j£°n^ 
dungeons    of    that    region,    instantly    komthe 
hasteneth  to  take  charge  of  such  souls   drag°?  and 

o  are  taken 

and  bring  them  unto  leou,  the  first  t0  Ieou- 
man,  the  legate  of  the  first  order ;  and  Ieou,  the 
first  man,  inspecteth  the  souls,  and  testeth  them, 
and  findeth  that  they  have  exhausted  their 
cycles — it  is  not  lawful  to  bring  them  again  into 
the  world,  for  every  soul  that  hath  been  cast 
into  the  outer  darkness  may  not  again  be 
brought  into  the  world — the  receivers  hand 
them  over  to  Ieou,  if  they  have  exhausted  the 
cycles  of  transmigrations  into  bodies,  until  the 


334  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

mystery  of  that  ineffable  is  performed  for  them 
and  they  are  put  into  a  good  body,  which  shall 
find  the  mysteries  of  light,  that  it  may  inherit 
the  kingdom  of  light. 

"  If,  then,  after  examining  them,  Ieou  fmdeth 
Of  their        that  they  have  exhausted  their  cycles, 

subsequent  ■'  J 

fate-  and   it   is  not  lawful   for  them  to  go 

back  again  into  the  world,  (334)  and  that  the 
sign  of  that  ineffable  is  not  with  them,  then 
Ieou  hath  compassion  upon  them,  and  bringeth 
them  unto  the  seven  virgins  of  light,  who  bap- 
tise them  in  their  baptisms,  but  do  not  give 
them  the  spiritual  chrism  ;  they  lead  them  into 
the  treasure  of  light,  but  do  not  set  them  in  the 
orders  of  the  inheritance,  because  there  is  not  in 
them  the  sign  and  seal  of  that  ineffable.  But 
they  preserve  them  from  every  chastisement  and 
set  them  in  the  treasure,  separated  and  apart, 
until  the  ascension  of  the  pleroma.  And  when 
the  time  cometh  for  drawing  together  the  veils 
of  the  treasure  of  light,  these  souls  shall  be 
cleansed  again  and  made  exceedingly  pure,  they 
shall  have  the  mystery  given  them  again  that 
they  may  be  set  in  the  last  of  the  orders  in  the 
treasure,  and  these  souls  shall  be  preserved  from 
all  the  chastisements  of  the  judgments." 

And  when  the  saviour  had  thus  spoken,  he 
said  unto  his  disciples  :  "  Understand  ye  how  I 
speak  unto  you  ? " 


SECOND   BOOK.  335 

Mary  answered   and    said  :    "  Master,  this  is 
the  word  which  thou  didst  speak  unto    Mary  in. 
us  aforetime,  in  parable,  saying,  '  Make    thTsame 
to  yourselves  friends  of  the  mammon   f^rner 
of   iniquity,   (335)    that  when  ye    are    saymg- 
abandoned,  it   may  bring  you    into  everlasting 
habitations.'       What,  then,  is  the  mammon  of 
iniquity,  if  not  the  dragon  of  outer  darkness  ? 
That  is  to  say,  whosoever  shall  understand  the 
mystery  of  one  of  the  names  of  the  dragons  of 
outer  darkness,  if  he  is  abandoned  in  the  outer 
darkness,  or  if  he  hath  exhausted  the  cycles  of 
transmigration,  and  if  he  pronounceth  the  name 
of  the  dragon,  he  shall  be  saved,  and  come  forth 
from  the  darkness,  and  receive  the  light  of  the 
treasure.     This  is  the  word,  0  Master." 

The  saviour  answered  again  and  said  unto 
Mary  :  "  Well  said,  thou  pure  and  spiritual  one ; 
that  is  the  interpretation  of  the  word." 

Mary  continued  further  and  said  :  "  Master, 
doth  the  dragon  of  outer  darkness  come  into 
this  world  or  not  ?  " 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary : 
"When  the  light  of  the  outer  sun  ^J^fthe 
shineth,  it  hideth  the  darkness  of  the   sun  and  the 

'  darkness  of 

dragon  ;  but  if  the  sun  is  below  this  the  dragon. 
world,  the  darkness  of  the  dragon  veileth  the 
sun  and  the  exhalation  of  the  darkness  entereth 
this  world  like  to  smoke  in  the  night ;  that  is  to 


336  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

say,  that  were  the  sun  to  withdraw  its  rays,  it 
would  not  be  possible  for  the  world  to  endure 
the  darkness  of  the  dragon  in  its  true  form, 
without  being  dissolved  and  perishing." 

(336)  And  when  the  saviour  had  spoken  these 
things,  Mary  continued  further  and  said  to  the 
saviour  :  "  Yet  further  do  I  question  thee  ;  and 
hide  it  not  from  me.  Now,  therefore,  0  Master, 
who  forceth  a  man  to  sin  ?  " 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
"It  is  those  rulers  of  the  fate  who  force  a  man 
to  sin. 

Mary  answered  and  said  unto  the  saviour : 
"  Master,  surely  the  rulers  do  not  descend  into 
the  world  to  force  a  man  to  sin  ? 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
Of  the  "No,  they  do   not   descend   into   the 

theefat°e        world  in  that  fashion.     But  the  rulers 

draught  of      °^   ^ne    ^e>  Wnen    an    °^    S0U^   P^SSeth 

oblivion.  through  their  hands  and  descendeth 
into  the  world,  the  rulers  of  that  great  fate 
[-sphere],  who  are  in  the  region  of  the  head  of 
the  aeons — and  this  region  is  called  the  region 
of  the  kingdom  of  Adamas,  and  this  region  is 
before  the  virgin  of  light — the  rulers  of  the 
region  of  that  head  give  unto  that  old  soul  a 
draught  of  oblivion  composed  of  the  seed  of 
iniquity,  filled  with  all  manner  of  desire  and  all 
forgetfulness.     And  the  moment  that  that  soul 


SECOND   BOOK.  337 

drinketh  of  that  draught,  it  forgetteth  all  the 
regions  (337)  through  which  it  hath  travelled, 
and  all  the  chastisements  through  which  it  hath 
passed ;  and  that  deadly  draught  of  oblivion 
becometh  a  body  external  to  the  soul,  The  mean. 
like  unto  the  soul  in  every  way,  and  ie?m°fthe 
its  perfect  resemblance,  and  hence  they  f^t°3the 
call  it  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit.  spirit." 

"  But  if  it  be  a  new  soul — they  fashion  [such 
souls]  from  the  sweat  of  the  rulers,  or   9fthefa!h" 

J  lonmg  of 

from  the  tears  of  their  eyes,  or  from  the  a  new  soul- 
breath  of  their  mouths — in  a  word,  if  it  be  a 
new  soul,  one  of  the  souls  of  this  kind,  [say]  one 
fashioned  out  of  sweat,  the  five  great  rulers  of 
the  great  fate  take  of  the  sweat  of  all  the  rulers 
of  their  aeons,  and  knead  their  sweatings  together, 
and  mix  in  a  portion  of  each,  and  fashion  it  into 
a  soul  ;  or  even  if  it  be  a  purgation  from  the 
purified  light  which  Melchisedec  hath  taken  from 
the  rulers,  the  five  great  rulers  of  the  great 
fate  knead  this  purgation  together  one  after  the 
other,  and  mix  in  a  portion  of  each,  and  fashion 
it  into  a  soul  in  such  a  way  that  every  one  of 
the  rulers  of  the  aeons  may  mix  his  portion  into 
that  soul.  They  knead  all  together  in  order 
that  each  may  have  a  share  therein. 

"  And  when  the  five  great  rulers  have  fash- 
ioned them  into  souls  from  the    sweat   of  the 

rulers  in  proper  proportion,  (338)  or  in  the  case  of 

22 


338  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

a  soul  [fashioned]  from  the  purgation  of  the  puri- 
fied light,  which  Melchisedec,  the  great  receiver 
of  light,  hath  taken  from  the  rulers,  or  in  the 
case  of  a  soul  [fashioned]  from  the  tears  of  their 
eyes  or  the  breath  of  their  mouths,  in  a  word,  in 
any  of  these  cases,  when  the  five  rulers  have 
portioned  [the  matter]  out  so  as  to  fashion  any 
soul  of  this  kind,  or  also  if  it  be  an  old  soul,  the 
ruler  himself  that  [ruleth]  over  the  heads  of  the 
aeons,  mixeth  the  draught  of  oblivion  from  the 
seed  of  iniquity,  mixeth  it  with  each  of  the  new 
souls  at  the  time  when  it  is  in  the  region  of  the 
head,  and  this  draught  of  oblivion  becometh  the 
counterfeit  of  the  spirit,  and  continueth  without 
the  soul  as  a  vesture,  like  unto  it  in  every  way, 
being  the  envelope  of  the  outer  vesture. 

"  And  the  ^ye  great  rulers  of  the  great  fate 
Of  the  in-     °f  the  ^ons>  and  the  ruler  of  the  disk 

ofethehing      of  the  sun>  and  the  ruler  of  the  disk  of 
power.  t]ie  moon,  breathe  within  into  the  heart 

of  that  soul,  and  there  cometh  forth  therefrom 

a  portion  of  my  power  which  the  last  supporter 

cast  into  the  mixture,  (339)  and  the  portion  of 

this  power  remaineth  apart  in  the  soul,  though 

at  the  same  time  retaining  full  power  over  itself, 

according  to  the  regulation  that  hath  been  placed 

upon  it,  to  give  [a  higher]  sense  unto  the  soul 

whereby  it  may  seek   after   the    works   of  the 

light  of  the  height  at  any  time. 


SECOND   BOOK.  339 

"  And  this  power  resembleth  the  configura- 
tion of  the  soul  in  every  way,  though  while 
resembling  it  is  in  no  way  external  to  the  soul, 
but  remaineth  within  it,  as  I  gave  commandment 
unto  it  from  the  beginning ;  for  when  I  cast  it 
into  the  first  statute,  I  £ave  it  commandment  to 
dwell  within  souls,  according  to  the  regulation 
of  the  first  mystery. 

"  And  so  I  will  explain  all  this  to  you  when 
I  come  to  speak  of  the  emanation,  both   jeSus  pro- 

.  t  t  miseth  to 

concerning  the  power  and  concern-  reveal  ail 
ing  the  soul,  after  what  type  they 
fashion  it,  or  again  what  is  the  ruler  that 
fashioneth  it,  or  what  are  all  the  dif- 
ferent kinds  of  souls ;  so  will  I  tell  you  in  [the 
revelation  of]  the  emanation  of  the  pleroma  how 
many  they  are  that  have  fashioned  the  soul,  and 
I  will  tell  you  the  name  of  all  them  that  have 
fashioned  the  soul,  and  I  will  tell  you  the  types 
according  to  which  they  have  created  the  counter- 
feit of  the  spirit  and  the  destiny,  and  I  will  tell 
you  the  name  of  the  soul  before  it  is  purified,  and 
its  name  after  it  hath  been  purified  and  hath 
become  pure,  and  I  will  tell  you  the  name  of  the 
destiny,  and  I  will  tell  you  the  name  of  all  the 
bonds  (340)  whereby  the  rulers  have  bound  the 
counterfeit  of  the  spirit  to  the  soul,  and  I  will 
tell  you  the  name  of  all  the  decans  that  work 
upon  the  soul  in  the  bodies  which  the  soul  hath  in 


340  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

the  world,  and  I  will  tell  you  how  they  work  on 
the  soul,  and  I  will  tell  you  the  type  of  every 
soul  ;  I  will  tell  you  the  type  of  the  souls  of 
men,  of  those  of  birds,  of  those  of  wild  beasts,  and 
of  reptiles  ;  and  I  will  tell  you  the  type  of  all  the 
souls  and  of  those  of  the  rulers  wTho  send  them 
into  the  world,  that  ye  may  be  perfect  in  every 
gnosis,  that  ye  may  be  called  perfect  in  every 
gnosis.  All  this  will  I  tell  you  in  explaining  the 
emanation  of  the  pleroma.  And  after  that  I  will 
tell  you  the  reason  of  the  existence  of  all  these 
things. 

"  Hearken,  therefore,  while  I  speak  with  you 
The  teach-  concerning  the  soul  as  to  how  I  have 
the  Sight-  said  that  the  five  great  rulers  of  the 
counterfeit  great  fate  of  the  aeons,  and  the  rulers 
summaPirit  °f  the  disk  of  the  sun,  and  the  rulers 
nsed.  Q£  ^q  disk  0f  the  moon,  breathe  into 

that  soul,  and  that  there  issueth  therefrom  a 
portion  of  my  power,  as  I  have  just  said  unto 
you,  and  the  portion  of  this  power  dwelleth 
within  the  soul  so  that  it  can  endure,  (341)  and 
the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit  is  stationed  without 
the  soul,  watching  over  it  and  dogging  it,  and 
that  the  rulers  bind  it  to  the  soul  with  their 
seals  and  their  bonds,  they  seal  it  to  it  that  it 
may  force  it  at  all  times  to  commit  its  mischiefs 
and  iniquities  unremittingly,  that  it  may  be 
their  slave  for  ever,  and  be  under  their  subjection 


Tft* 


SECOND   BOOK.  341 

for  ever  in  the  transmigrations  into  bodies ;  and 
they  seal  it  to  it  that  it  may  be  in  every  kind  of 
sin  and  all  the  desires  of  the  world. 

"  It  is  because  of  things  of  this  kind,  then, 
that  I  have  brought  the  mysteries  into    yho  are 

&  J  the  "  pa- 

this  world,  [mysteries]  which  break  all   rents "  we 

£12*6    DO 

the  bonds  of  the  counterfeit  of  the  abandon, 
spirit  and  all  the  seals  which  are  attached  to  the 
soul,  which  make  the  soul  free,  and  ransom  it 
from  the  hands  of  its  parents,  the  rulers,  and 
transform  it  into  pure  light,  to  bring  it  into  the 
kingdom  of  the  true  father,  the  first  father,  the 
first  everlasting  mystery. 

"  For  this  cause  have  I  said  unto  you  afore- 
time, '  He  who  shall  not  leave  father  and  mother 
to  follow  after  me  is  not  worthy  of  me.'  What 
I  said  then  was,  '  Ye  shall  leave  your  parents  the 
rulers,  that  ye  may  be  all  children  of  the  first 
everlasting  mystery.'" 

(342)  And  when  the  saviour  had  said  these 
words,  Salome  came  forward  and  said  :  Saiome  is 
"  How,  then,  0  Master,  since  the  rulers  jj  ^bt  as 
are  our  parents,  is  it  written  in  the  matter- 
Law  of  Moses,  '  He  who  shall  leave  his  father  or 
mother,  let  him  die  the  death  '  ?  Surely  the 
Law  doth  not,  then,  speak  of  the  same  matter  ?  " 

And  when  Salome  had  said  these  words,  the 
light-power  which  was  in  Mary  Magdalene, 
seethed    in  her,   and    she  said  to  the   saviour  : 


* 


342  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

"  Master,  bid  me  speak  with  my  sister  Salome, 
to  tell  her  the  interpretation  of  the  word  which 
she  hath  uttered." 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  the  saviour 
had  heard  the  words  which  Mary  had  said,  that 
he  proclaimed  her  blessed  again  and  again.  The 
saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  :  "I  bid 
thee,  0  Mary,  utter  the  interpretation  of  the 
word  which  Salome  hath  spoken." 

And  when  the  saviour  had  said  these  words, 
Mary  re-       Mary  hastened  to  Salome,  and  kissed 

moveth  the     i  •  ,,  rs    i  •   j. 

doubt  of  her,  saying  :  balome,  sister,  concern- 
ing the  saying  which  thou  hast  uttered, 
to  wit,  that  it  is  written  in  the  Law  of  Moses, 
'  He  who  shall  leave  his  father  and  mother,  let 
him  die  the  death '  ;  now,  therefore,  sister 
Salome,  the  Law  hath  spoken  this  neither  con- 
cerning the  soul,  nor  concerning  the  body,  nor 
concerning  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit,  (343)  all 
of  which  are  the  children  of  the  rulers,  and  come 
forth  from  them  ;  but  the  Law  hath  spoken  it 
concerning  the  power  which  came  forth  from  the 
saviour,  and  which  is  the  indweller  of  light  in 
[each  of]  us  unto  this  day.  The  Law  hath 
further  said,  '  Whoever  shall  remain  without  the 
saviour  and  his  mysteries  which  are  all  his 
parents,  let  him  die  the  death,  nay  let  him  be 
lost  in  utter  destruction.'  " 

And  when  Mary  had  said  these  words,  Salome 


SECOND   BOOK.  343 

threw  her  arms  round  Mary  and  kissed  her 
again.  Salome  said  :  "  May  the  saviour  make 
me  illumined  like  unto  thee  !  " 

It  came  to  pass  when  the  saviour  had  heard 
the  words  of  Mary,  that  he  proclaimed  her 
blessed  again  and  again.  And  the  saviour  con- 
tinued again  in  his  conversation,  and  said  unto 
Mary  in  the  midst  of  his  disciples  :  "  Hearken, 
therefore,  0  Mary,  who  [it  is  that]  forceth  a 
man  to  sin. 

"  Now,  therefore,  the  rulers  seal  the  counter- 
feit of  the  spirit  to  the  soul,  not  that   of  the 
it  may  agitate  it  every   moment  and   given  unto 

i        • ,  • ,  •  -i  the  coun- 

make  it  commit  every  sin  and  every  terfeitof 
iniquity.  But  they  have  given  com-  *  espint- 
mandment  unto  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit, 
saying,  '  If  the  soul  passeth  out  of  the  body,  do 
not  agitate  it,  dogging  it,  reproaching  it  in  all 
the  regions  of  the  judgments,  region  by  region, 
because  of  all  the  sins  which  thou  hast  caused  it 
to  commit,  that  it  may  be  chastised  in  all  the 
regions  of  the  judgments,  and  not  be  able  to  go 
on  high  towards  the  light,  (344)  and  be  made 
to  come  back  into  transmigrations  into  bodies.' 

"In  a  word,  they  give  commandment  to  the 
counterfeit  of  the  spirit,  saying,  '  Do  not  agitate 
it  at  all  at  any  time,  unless  it  hath  not  received 
the  breaking  of  all  the  seals  and  of  all  the  bonds 
with  which  we   have   bound   thee    to  it.     But 


344  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

if  it  receiveth  the  mysteries,  if  it  breaketh  all 
the  seals,  all  the  bonds,  with  the  apology  of  the 
region,  and  if  it  pass  out,  let  it  go,  for  it  per- 
taineth  to  those  of  the  light  of  the  height,  it 
hath  become  a  stranger  unto  us  and  thee,  thou 
canst  not  seize  hold  of  it  from  that  hour.  But 
if  it  hath  not  received  the  mysteries  of  the 
breaking  of  thy  bonds  and  of  thy  seals  with  the 
apologies  of  the  region,  seize  hold  upon  it,  and 
let  it  not  go,  rebuke  it  in  the  torments  and  all 
the  regions  of  the  judgments,  because  of  all  the 
sins  which  thou  hast  caused  it  to  commit.  After 
this,  then,  bring  such  souls  unto  the  virgin  of 
light,  and  she  will  send  them  round  the  cycle 
another  time.'  These  are  [the  orders]  which  the 
rulers  of  the  great  fate  have  given  unto  the 
counterfeit  of  the  spirit. 

"  Then   the   rulers  summon   the  workmen  of 
Of  the  their  aeons,  to    the    number   of  three 

charge 

given  unto     hundred  and  sixty-five,  and  hand  over 

the  build-  J 

ers-  to  them  the  soul  and  counterfeit  of  the 

spirit  bound  together,  the  one  to  the  other,  the 
counterfeit  of  the  spirit  being  outside  the  soul, 
and  the  compound  of  the  power  within  the  soul 
being  inside  both,  that  they  may  hold  together, 
for  the  power  holds  the  two  together.  (345) 
And  the  rulers  give  commandment  to  the  work- 
men, saying,  *  This  is  the  type  which  ye  shall  set 
in  the  body  of  the  matter  of  the  world.     Set  ye 


SECOND   BOOK.  345 

the  compound  of  the  power  which  is  in  the  soul 
within  all  of  them,  that  they  may  hold  together, 
for  it  is  their  support,  and  outside  the  soul  place 
the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit.'  This  is  the  order 
which  they  have  given  to  their  workmen,  that 
they  may  set  the  antitypes  in  bodies. 

"  Following   this    plan    the   workmen    of  the 
rulers  bring  the  power,  the  soul,  and   Pf  the. em- 

01  bryonic 

the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit,  and  pour   stages  of 

x  *■  incarna- 

them  all  three  into  the  world,  passing  tion. 
through  the  world  of  the  rulers  of  the  midst. 
The  rulers  of  the  midst  also  inspect  the  counter- 
feit of  the  spirit  and  also  the  destiny.  The 
latter,  whose  name  is  the  destiny,  leadeth  on  a 
man  until  it  hath  him  killed  by  the  death  which 
is  destined  for  him.  This  the  rulers  of  the  great 
fate  have  bound  to  the  soul.  And  the  work- 
men of  the  sphere  bind  the  soul  with  the  power, 
with  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit  and  with  the 
destiny.  And  the  whole  is  divided  so  as  to 
form  two  parts,  to  surround  the  man  and  also 
the  woman  in  the  world,  in  whom  the  sign  hath 
been  set  for  them  to  be  sent  unto  them.  (346) 
And  they  give  one  part  to  the  man  and  the 
other  to  the  woman  in  the  food  of  the  world, 
either  in  the  aery,  or  watery,  or  etheric  sub- 
stance which  they  imbibe. 

"  All  this  I  will  tell  unto  you,  and  the  class  of 
every  soul,  and  the  type  whereby  they  come  into 


346  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

bodies,  either  as  men,  or  birds,  or  cattle,  or  wild 
beasts,  or  reptiles,  or  any  other  species  that 
existeth  in  the  world.  I  will  tell  you  the  type 
of  [all  of]  them,  and  also  how  they  enter  into 
men,  when  I  speak  of  the  emanation  of  the 
pleroma. 

"  Now,  therefore,  when  the  workmen  of  the 
rulers  have  cast  one  part  into  the  woman  and 
the  other  into  the  man  in  the  manner  which  I 
have  just  related,  even  though  [the  pair]  be 
removed  a  great  distance  from  one  another,  the 
Thekarmic  workmen  compel  them  secretly  to  be 
of  The1  S1°n  united  together  in  the  union  of  the 
parents-  world.  Then  the  counterfeit  of  the 
spirit  which  is  in  the  male  cometh  unto  the  part 
[of  itself]  which  hath  been  sent  into  the  world 
in  the  matter  of  the  body  [of  the  man],  and 
sacrificeth  it  and  casteth  it  into  the  womb  of 
the  woman,  a  deposit  of  the  seed  of  iniquity. 
And  forthwith  the  three  hundred  and  sixty-five 
workmen  of  the  rulers  enter  into  her,  to  take  up 
their  abode  in  her.  The  workmen  of  the  two 
parts  are  all  there  together. 

(347)  "  And  the  workmen  check  the  blood  that 
The  occult    cometh  from  all  the  nourishment  that 

process  of 

gestation,  the  woman  eateth  or  drinketh,  and 
keep  it  in  the  womb  of  the  woman  for  forty 
days.  And  after  forty  days,  they  work  the 
blood  [that  cometh]  from  the  essence  of  all  the 


b 


SECOND   BOOK.  347 

nourishment,  and  work  it  together  carefully  in 
the  woman's  womb. 

"  After  forty  days,  they  spend  another  thirty 
days  in  building  its  members  into  the  likeness 
of  the  body  of  a  man  ;  each  buildeth  a  member. 
I  will  tell  you  of  the  decans  who  thus  build  [the 
body]  ;  I  will  tell  them  unto  you,  when  I  explain 
the  emanation  of  the  pleroma. 

"  Afterwards,  when  the  workmen  have  com- 
pleted the  body  entirely  with  all  its    Ofthein- 

x  j  j  carnation 

members  in  seventy  days,  they  summon   of  ^e 

J  J       '  J  u  pnn. 

into  the  body  which  they  have  builded,  cipies." 
first  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit,  next  they 
summon  the  soul  within  these,  and  finally  they 
summon  the  compound  of  the  power  within 
the  soul,  and  the  destiny  they  place  outside  all, 
for  it  is  not  blended  with  them,  but  followeth 
after  and  accompanieth  them. 

"  And  then  the  workmen  seal  them  one  to 
the  other  with  all  the  seals  which  the   °ccuit 

physiog- 

rulers  have  given  unto  them.  So  they  nomy- 
seal  them.  The  day  on  which  they  took  up 
their  abode  in  the  womb  of  the  woman,  they 
seal  on  the  left  hand  of  the  plasm  ;  (348)  the 
day  when  they  finished  the  body,  they  seal  on 
the  right  hand  ;  the  day  on  which  the  rulers 
handed  [the  three]  over  into  their  hands,  they 
seal  on  the  top  of  the  head  of  the  plasm  ;  the 
day    on    which    the   soul  came    forth  from  the 


348  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

rulers,  they  seal  on  the  [left  side  of]  the  head  of 
the  plasm  ;  the  day  when  they  kneaded  the 
members  and  divided  them  out  for  the  soul, 
they  seal  on  the  right  side  of  the  head  of 
the  plasm  ;  the  day  on  which  they  bound  the 
counterfeit  of  the  spirit  to  the  soul,  they  seal 
on  the  back  of  the  head  of  the  plasm  ;  the  day 
when  the  rulers  breathed  the  power  into  the 
body,  they  seal  on  the  brain  which  is  within 
the  head  of  the  plasm,  and  also  within  the 
heart  of  the  plasm  ;  and  also  the  number  of 
years  which  the  soul  shall  pass  in  the  body, 
they  seal  on  the  forehead  of  the  plasm  ;  and 
so  they  seal  all  these  seals  on  the  plasm.  Of 
all  these  seals  I  will  tell  you  the  names  when 
I  speak  of  the  emanation  of  the  pleroma,  that 
is  to  say,  why  every  thing  hath  come  into  exist- 
ence ;  and  if  ye  would  know  it,  I  am  that 
mystery. 

"  Now,  therefore,  when  the  workmen  have 
finished  the  man  entirely,  and  have  set  all  these 
seals  on  his  body,  (349)  the  workmen  take  note 
of  the  peculiarity  [of  the  seals]  and  bring  it  unto 
the  receivers  of  wrath  who  preside  over  all  the 
punishments  of  the  judgments,  and  they  hand 
it  over  to  their  receivers  so  that  they  may  be 
able  to  take  the  souls  apportioned  to  them  out 
of  their  bodies  ;  [that  is  to  say]  those  to  whom 
the  peculiarity  of  the  seals   is  given  that  they 


SECOND   BOOK.  349 

may  know  the  time  when  those  souls  shall  be 
taken  out  of  body,  and  also  know  the  time  when 
the  body  shall  be  born,  so  as  to  send  their  work- 
men to  keep  themselves  near,  and  follow  the 
soul,  to  bear  witness  of  all  sins  it  shall  commit 
through  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit,  to  know 
how  to  punish  it  in  the  judgments. 

"  And  when  the  workmen  have  given  the 
peculiarity  of  the  seals  to  the  rulers  of  of  the 
wrath,  they  withdraw  to  the  adminis-  the  destiny, 
tration  of  the  works  which  have  been  imposed 
upon  them  by  the  seons  of  the  great  fate,  and 
when  the  number  of  months  of  the  child's  con- 
ception is  full,  the  babe  is  born,  the  compound 
of  the  power  being  small  in  it,  the  soul  being 
small  in  it,  and  the  counterfeit  of  the  spirit 
being  small  in  it ;  whereas  the  destiny,  being 
vast,  is  not  mingled  with  the  body,  according  to 
the  regulation  of  the  three,  (350)  but  folio weth 
after  the  soul,  the  body,  and  the  counterfeit  of 
the  spirit,  until  the  soul  passeth  from  the  body 
according  to  the  type  of  death  whereby  he  shall 
die,  according  to  what  hath  been  decreed  unto 
him  by  the  rulers  of  the  great  fate. 

"  If  he  have  to  die  by  a  wild  beast,  the  des- 
tiny  leadeth  on  that  wild  beast  against    of  how  a 


him  to  slay  him  ;  or  if  he  have  to  die   cometh  by 

-i  -r>   i        1  j      j?  n    •    j.        his  death. 

by  a  serpent,  or  it  he  have  to  tall  into 

a  pit  to  his  destruction,  or  if  he  have  to  strangle 


350  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

himself,  or  if  he  have  to  be  drowned  in  the 
water,  or  [die]  by  any  death  of  this  kind,  or  by 
one  worse  or  better  than  any  of  the  above,  in  a 
word,  it  is  the  destiny  which  forceth  his  death 
upon  him.  This  is  the  work  of  the  destiny,  and 
it  hath  no  other  work  but  this.  So  the  des- 
tiny followeth  after  a  man  until  the  day  of  his 
death." 

Mary  answered  and  said  :  "  Surely  every  jot 
which  is  set  down  in  the  account  of  every  man 
in  the  world  by  the  fate,  whether  good  or  bad, 
or  sin,  or  death,  or  life,  in  a  word,  every  jot 
which  is  set  down  in  a  man's  account  by  the 
rulers  of  the  fate,  will  not  be  worked  out  ?  " 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
That  is  no  "Amen,  I  say  unto  you,  every  jot 
fromPe  ^hat   *s   se^   down  m   the  account   of 

destmy.  every  man  by  the  fate,  be  it  every 
good,  or  be  it  every  evil,  in  a  word,  every  jot 
that  hath  been  set  down,  will  be  worked  out. 

"  For  this  cause,  therefore,  (351)  have  I 
Of  the  brought  the  key  of  the  mysteries  of 

themys°-£  tne  kingdom  of  the  heavens,  without 
tenes.  which  no  flesh  could  have  been  saved 

in  the  world ;  for  without  the  mysteries  no  one 
shall  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  light,  be  he 
righteous  or  a  sinner. 

"  For  this  cause,  therefore,  have  I  brought  the 
keys  of    the  mysteries  into  the  world,  that  I 


SECOND  BOOK.  351 

may  save  the  sinners  who  shall  believe  on  me, 
and  shall  give  ear  unto  me,  that  I  may  loose 
them  from  the  bonds  and  seals  of  the  aeons  of  the 
rulers,  and  bind  them  to  the  seals  and  vestures 
and  orders  of  the  light ;  so  that  everv  one  that 
I  should  set  free  in  the  world  from  the  bonds 
and  seals  of  the  aeons  of  the  rulers  should  also 
be  loosed  in  the  height  from  the  bonds  and 
seals  of  the  aeons  of  the  rulers,  and  every  one 
that  I  should  bind  in  the  world  to  the  seals 
and  vestures  and  orders  of  the  light,  should 
be  bound  in  the  light-land  to  the  orders  of  the 
inheritances  of  the  light. 

"  It  is  for  the  sake  of  sinners,  therefore,  that  I 
have  torn  myself  open,  at  this  time,  and  have 
brought  unto  them  the  mysteries,  that  I  might 
free  them  from  the  aeons  of  the  rulers,  and  bind 
them  unto  the  inheritances  of  light ;  and  not  only 
for  the  sake  of  sinners,  but  also  of  the  just,  to 
give  them  the  mysteries  and  bring  them  unto 
the  light,  for  without  the  mysteries  they  cannot 
be  brought  thither. 

(352)  "  For  this  cause,  therefore,  I  have 
hidden    nothing,    but    I    have    cried   Themys- 

o*  teries  are 

aloud,  I  have  not  separated  out  the  foraiimen. 
sinners,  but  I  have  cried  aloud,  and  have  spoken 
to  every  man,  unto  sinners  and  unto  the 
righteous,  I  have  said,  '  Seek  that  ye  may  find, 
knock  that  it  may  be  opened  unto  you  ;  for  every 


352  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

one  that  seeketh  in  truth,  shall  find,  and  to  him 
that  knocketh,  it  shall  be  opened.'  For  I  have 
spoken  unto  all  men,  that  they  may  seek  out 
the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom  of  the  light,  which 
shall  cleanse  them  and  make  them  pure,  that 
they  may  be  brought  unto  the  light. 

"  For  this  cause,  therefore,  John  the  Baptist 
a  prophecy  prophesied  concerning  me,  saying,  'I 
Baptist.  indeed  baptise  you  with  water  unto 
repentance  and  the  remission  of  your  sins.  But 
he  who  cometh  after  me,  is  before  me,  whose 
fan  is  in  his  hand,  and  he  shall  purge  his  floor ; 
the  chaff  he  shall  burn  with  fire  unquenchable, 
but  the  wheat  he  shall  gather  into  his  garner.' 
The  power  which  was  in  John,  [thus]  prophesied 
concerning  me,  knowing  that  I  should  bring  the 
mysteries  into  the  world,  to  cleanse  the  sins  of 
those  sinners  who  should  believe  in  me,  and  give 
ear  unto  me,  that  I  might  transform  them  into 
pure  light  and  bring  them  unto  the  light." 

And  when  Jesus  had  thus  spoken,  Mary 
answered  and  said  :  "  Again,  0  Master,  if  men 
begin  to  seek,  and  come  upon  the  doctrines  of 
error,  (353)  how  will  they  know  whether  they 
are  thine  or  not  ?  " 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
"  I  have  said  unto  you  aforetime,  '  Be  ye  as 
wise  money-changers,'  that  is  to  say,  take  ye 
what  is  good,  but  reject  that  which  is  evil. 


SECOND   BOOK.  353 

"  Now,  therefore,  say  ye  unto  every  one  that 
seeketh  the  godhead,  '  When  the  wind   ^he  c/ite- 

o  7  rion  of 

cometh  from  the  north,  ye  know  that   orthodoxy- 
there  will  be  cold  ;  when  the  wind  cometh  from 
the  south,  ye  know  that  there  will  be  burning 
and  heat.' 

"  Now,  therefore,  say  ye  unto  them,  '  If 
[then]  ye  know  the  face  of  the  heaven  and  of 
the  earth  from  the  winds,  if  any  [then]  shall 
come  unto  you,  to  preach  unto  you  the  godhead, 
be  very  certain  that  their  words  unite  and 
couple  with  all  the  words  which  we  have  spoken 
unto  you  according  to  the  witness  of  two  or  of 
three,  and  agree  in  the  constitution  of  the  air,  and 
heavens,  and  cycles,  and  stars  and  constellations, 
and  of  the  whole  earth  and  all  that  is  therein ' — 
say  ye  [then]  unto  them,  '  All  who  come  unto 
you,  so  that  their  words  couple  and  unite  with 
all  the  gnosis  which  hath  been  given  unto  you, 
receive  ye  them,  they  belong  unto  us.'  This, 
then,  is  what  ye  shall  say  unto  men,  preaching 
unto  them  that  they  may  keep  themselves  aloof 
from  the  doctrines  of  error. 

(354)    "  Now,     therefore,    for     the    sake    of 

sinners   have    I    torn    myself   asunder   The  Books 

and    come    into   the    world,    to    save   ofIeou- 

them,  and  also  because  it  is  necessary  that  the 

righteous,  who  have  never  done  evil,  and  have 

never  committed  sin,  should  find  the  mysteries 

23 


354  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

which  are  in  the  Books  of  Ieou,  which  I  made 
Enoch  write  down  in  Paradise,  when  I  spoke 
to  him  from  the  tree  of  knowledge,  and  from 
the  tree  of  ]ife,  and  which  I  made  him  deposit 
in  the  rock  of  Ararad  ;  and  I  set  Kalapatauroth, 
the  ruler  that  is  over  Skemmut,  on  whose  head 
is  the  foot  of  Ieou — the  latter  surroundeth  all 
the  seons  and  the  fate  [-sphere] — I  set  [then] 
this  ruler  to  preserve  the  Books  of  Ieou  from  the 
flood,  and  [also]  lest  any  of  the  rulers  out  of 
enmity  should  destroy  them.  Those  [books] 
will  I  give  unto  you,  when  I  have  finished 
telling  you  the  emanation  of  the  pleroma." 

When,  then,  the  saviour  had  thus  spoken, 
Mary  answered  and  said  :  "  Master,  what  man 
is  there  in  the  world  who  hath  not  committed 
sin,  who  is  entirely  spotless  of  any  transgression1? 
For  if  one  is  pure,  will  not  another  also  be  pure, 
so  as  to  find  the  mysteries  which  are  in  the 
Books  of  Ieou?  I,  indeed,  say  that  no  man  in 
this  world  will  be  pure  of  sin,  for  if  one  is  pure, 
then  why  should  not  another  be  pure  also  ?  " 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
"  I  tell  you  that  there  shall  be  found  one  in 
a  thousand  and  two  in  ten  thousand  for  the 
Few  only      consummation  of  the   mystery  of  the 

will  really  J  J 

compre-        first    mystery.       (355)    These    things 

hendthe  J  J  \  1  & 

mysteries,  will  I  tell  unto  you  when  I  have  fin- 
ished explaining  the  emanation  of  the  pleroma. 


SECOND   BOOK.  355 

For  this  cause,  therefore,  I  have  torn  myself 
asunder  and  brought  the  mysteries  into  the 
world,  for  all  are  under  sin,  and  all  have  need 
of  the  boon  of  the  mysteries." 

Mary  answered  and  said  unto  the  saviour  : 
"  Master,  had  no  soul  entered  into  the  light, 
before  thou  didst  come  into  the  region  of  the 
rulers  and  before  thou  didst  come  into  the  world?" 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto   Mary  : 
"  Amen,  amen,  I  say  unto  you,  before   No  soul 
I   came  into   the   world,   no   soul  had   te^edTnto 
entered  into  the  light.     But,  now  that   b^foreSthe 
I  am  come,  I  have   opened  the  gates   th^Sst^ 
of  the  light,  I  have  thrown  open  the   mystery' 
ways  that  lead  to   the  light ;  and  now,   there- 
fore, he  who  acteth    worthily  of  the  mysteries, 
shall  receive  the  mysteries,  that  he  may  enter 
into  the  light." 

And  Mary  answered  again  and  said  :  "  But, 
Master,  I  have  heard  it  said  that  the  prophets 
are  entered  into  the  light." 

The  saviour  answered   and  said  unto  Mary  : 

"  Amen,    amen,    I    sav  unto   you,   no   None  of 

the  pro- 
prophet  hath  entered  into  the  light,  but   phets  had 

been  in- 

the  rulers  of  the   aeons  who  spake   to    itiated. 
them  out  of  the  aeons,  have  given  unto  them  the 
mysteries  of  the  aeons.     And  when  I  went  into 
the  region    of   the   aeons,   I    turned  back  Elias 
and  despatched  him  into   the  body  of  John  the 


356  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

Baptist,  and  the  others  also  I  turned  back  into 
righteous  bodies,  which  will  find  the  mysteries 
of  the  light,  (356)  and  mount  into  the  height 
and  inherit  the  kingdom  of  light. 

"  Unto  Abraham  himself,  and  Isaac,  and 
Thepatri-     Jacob,   I  have  remitted  all  their  sins 

archs  nave 

not  yet  en-    ano|  their  iniquities  ;  I  gave  them  the 

tered  into  -1  ° 

the  light.  mysteries  of  the  light  in  the  aeons,  and 
placed  them  in  the  region  of  Iabraoth  and  of 
all  the  rulers  who  have  repented,  and  when  I 
ascend  into  the  height,  that  moment  when  I 
shall  enter  into  the  light,  I  will  take  with  me 
their  souls  into  the  light. 

"But,  amen,  I  say  unto  you,  0  Mary,  he 
[Abraham]  shall  not  enter  into  the  light,  before 
I  shall  have  taken  thy  soul  and  those  of  thy 
brethren  into  the  light. 

"As  to  the  rest  of  the  patriarchs  and  of  the 
Of  the  souls   righteous  from  the  time  of  Adam  unto 

of  the  right-         ° 

eous  from     this  present  time  who  are  in  the  aeons, 

Adam  to  x 

Jesus.  and  all  the  orders  of  the  aeons,  when  I 

shall  ascend  into  the  region  of  the  aeons,  the 
region  of  light  will  see  that  all  are  sent  back 
into  bodies  which  will  be  righteous,  and  find  the 
mysteries  of  the  light,  and  enter  into  and  inherit 
the  kingdom  of  the  light." 

Mary  answered  and  said :  "  Blessed  are  we 
before  all  men  because  of  these  great  [truths] 
which  thou  hast  revealed  unto  us." 


SECOND   BOOK.  357 

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary 
and  all  his  disciples  :  "I  will  also  reveal  unto 
you  all  the  grandeurs  of  the  height,  from  the 
interior  of  the  interiors  to  the  exterior  of  the 
exteriors,  (357)  that  ye  may  be  perfect  in  every 
gnosis,  and  in  every  pleroma,  in  every  height 
of  the  heights  and  every  deep  of  the  depths." 

And  Mary  answered  and  said  to  the  saviour  : 

"  Now    we    know,    0    Master,    freely,    The  dis- 
ciples know 
surely,  plainly,  that  thou  hast  brought   of  a  surety 

it  ^i  •  c    i        i  •  that    Jesus 

the  keys  ot  the  mysteries  ot  the  king-   is  the 
dom  of  light  which  remit  the  sins  of  initiator. 
souls,  that  they  may  be  cleansed,  and  be  trans- 
formed into  pure  light  and  be  brought  unto  the 
light." 


EXTRACT  FROM  THE  BOOKS  OF  THE 
SAVIOUR. 

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  after  they  had  cruci- 
The  dis-  fied  Jesus,  our  Master,  that  he  rose 
a  boon  of  from  the  dead  on  the  third  day.  And 
the  disciples  came  together  unto  him 
and  besought  him,  saying  :  "  Master,  have  mercy 
upon  us,  for  we  have  left  father  and  mother,  and 
the  whole  world,  and  have  followed  thee." 

Then  Jesus  stood  by  the  sea  of  the   Ocean, 

The  prayer   with  his  disciples,  and  made  invocation 

o  Jesus.       with  this  prayer,  saying  :  "  Hear  me, 

-\aV     t-  0    father,    father   of   all   fatherhood,    boundless 

-^y  .  \  &  SyA  light :    aeeioad   iao   adz   dia  psmother  thernops 

r^f*  \^\^  nopsither  zagoure  pagourS  nethmomadth  nepsio- 

-  &^\*\  maoth    marachachtha   thobarrhabau  tharnach- 

\Pt>\^^^^         ac^an  zorokothora  ieoa  sabaoth." 

^*       y        fc  '  (358)    And   while    Jesus    was   reciting    this, 

VOlcJ^  ?he  %Ttl~   Thomas,   Andrew,  James,  and  Simon, 

i>-j)  mg   of   the  '  '  ' 

disciples.  the  Canaanite,  stood  on  the  west,  with 
their  faces  turned  towards  the  east ;  Philip  and 
Bartholomew  stood  on  the  south,  facing  towards 
the  north  ;  the  rest  of  the  disciples  with  all  the 
women  disciples  stood  behind  Jesus. 


BOOKS    OF    THE    SAVIOUR.  359 

But   Jesus    stood   at    the    altar.     And    Jesus 
cried  aloud,  turning  towards   the   four    _, 

'  °  The  mter- 

angles  of  the  world,  together  with  his   Pretation  of 

o  °  the  word 

disciples  all  clad  in  linen  robes,  saying  :   ia6- 
"  iao  iao  iao.     This  is  the  interpretation  thereof : 
idta,  The  pleroma  hath  gone  forth  ;  alpha,  They 
shall  return   within ;  omega,  There  shall  be  an 
end  of  ends." 

And  when  Jesus  had  thus  spoken,  he  said  : 
"  iaphtha  iaphtha   mounaer  moimaer  J*e  prayeth 

L  *■  for   a   boon 

ermanou&r  ermanouer.    That  is  to  say,   t0  be  given 

J        to  his  dis- 

0  father  of  every  fatherhood  of  the  cipies. 
boundless  [spaces],  hear  me  because  of  my  dis- 
ciples whom  I  have  brought  into  thy  presence, 
that  they  may  believe  in  all  the  words  of  thy 
truth  ;  grant  unto  them  all  things  for  which  I 
have  cried  unto  thee,  for  1  know  the  name  of 
the  father  of  the  treasure  of  light." 

Yet  again  did  Jesus,  that  is  to  say  Aber- 
amentho,  cry  aloud,  invoking  the  He  com. 
name  of  the  father  of  the  treasure  of  Se^teof 
light,  and  saying:  "Let  all  the  ttZZ 
mysteries  of  the  rulers,  authorities,  drawn- 
angels,  archangels,  and  all  the  powers  and  all 
the  works  of  the  invisible  gods,  (359)  Agram- 
machamareg  and  Barbelo  Bdelle,  withdraw  them- 
selves, and  roll  themselves  on  to  the  right." 

And  in  that  hour  all  the  heavens  moved  to  the 
west ;  all  the  aeons,  the  spheres  and  their  rulers 


■■-\ 

PISTIS    SOPHIAS^ 

Liid  all  their  pWers  sped  to  the  west  to  the  left 

of  the  disk  of  the  sun  and  the  disk  of  the  moon. 

And  the  disk  of  the  sun  was  a  vast  dragon 

The  figure     whose  tail  was  in  its  mouth,  mounted 

of  the  disk 

of  the  sun.  on  seven  powers  of  the  left,  drawn  by 
four  powers  which  bore  the  likeness  of  white 
horses. 

But  the  car  of  the  moon  was  like  a  ship, 
The  figure  whose  helms  were  a  male  dragon  and  a 
of  the  dlSk  female  dragon,  drawn  by  two  white 
moon'  oxen.     The  figure   of  a  babe  was  on 

the  poop  steering  the  dragons  who  seized  the 
light  from  the  rulers ;  and  at  the  prow  was  the 
face  of  a  cat. 

And  the  whole  world,  with  its  mountains  and 
seas,  sped  to  the  west  to  the  left. 

And  Jesus  and  his  disciples  remained  in  the 
Jesus  and      midst  of  an  aerial  region,  in  the  paths 

the  disci-  °  x 

pies  are        0f  the  way  of  the  midst,  which  is  below 

transported  J 

to  the  ways    the  sphere.     And  they  came  to  the  first 

of  the  r  ... 

midst.  order,    on    the    way    which    is   in    the 

midst.  And  Jesus  halted  in  the  atmosphere  of 
that  region  with  his  disciples. 

The  disciples  said  unto  Jesus  :  "  What  is  this 
region  in  which  we  are  ? " 

(360)  Jesus  said  unto  them  :  "  These  are  the 
Of  the  re-      regions  of  the  way  of  the  midst.     It 

pentant  °  J 

and  unre-      hath  come  to  pass,  that  the  rulers  of 

pentant  L  ^  _ — 

rulers.  Adamas,  being  in  sedition,  have  per- 


BOOKS   OF   THE    SAVIOUR. 


361 


lb  AaaXT     Us\oL  t^jo 


V 

/       /     T 

I* 


sisted  in  congress  and  procreated  rulers,  and  arch- 
angels, and  angels,  and  workmen  and  decans.  [So] 
Ieou,  the  father  of  my  father,  came  forth  from  the 
right,  and  bound  them  to  the  fate  of  the  sphere. 

"  For  there  are  twelve  aeons,  Sabaoth  Adamas 
ruling  over  six  of  them  and  his  brother  Iabraoth 
ruling  over  the  remaining  six.  But  Iabraoth  and 
his  rulers  have  believed  in  the  mysteries  of  the 
light,  and  practising  the  mysteries  of  the  light 
they  have  abandoned  the  mystery  of  congress. 
Whereas  Sabaoth  Adamas  and  his  rulers  have 
continued  to  practise  [the  mystery  of]  cgn^ress.        C^^i^JL 

"  And  when  Ieou,  the  father  of  my  father,  saw 
that  Iabraoth  had  believed,  he  took  him  up  with 
all  the  rulers  that  had  believed  with  him.  Re- 
ceiving [his  soul]  in  the  sphere,  he  brought  him 
unto  a  pure  atmosphere,  near  the  light  of  the 
sun,  between  the  regions  of  them  of  the  midst 
and  the  regions  of  the  invisible  god.  Thus  he 
set  him  with  the  rulers  that  had  believed. 

"  But  he  took  Sabaoth  Adamas  with  his  rulers, 
who  had  not  practised  the  mysteries  of  the  light, 
but  had  persisted  in  practising  the  mysteries  of 
congress,  and  bound  them  to  the  sphere. 

"  He  bound  eighteen  hundred  rulers  in  every 


t 


aeon,  and  set  three  hundred  and  sixty   Of  the 

ni  pvfi  T*o  ni  P*^ 

over  them,  (361)  and  [further]  set  five   of  the 
other  great  rulers  to  rule  over  the  three   the  names 
hundred  and  sixty  and  all  the  other  rulers   regents. 


362  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

that  are  bound.  The  [five]  they  call  in  the 
world  of  human  kind  by  these  names  :  the  first 
is  called  Kronos  :  the  second,  Ares:  the  third, 
*  Hermes  ;  the  fourth,  Aphrodite  ;  the  fifth,  Zeus." 
And  Jesus  continued  in  his  conversation  and 
0fth®  said:    "Hearken   further,  that  I  may 

powers  that  J 

ieou  infused  tell  you  their  mystery.  It  came  to  pass, 
five  regents,  therefore,  when  Ieou  had  thus  bound 
them,  that  he  drew  forth  a  mighty  power  from 
the  great  invisible,  and  bound  it  to  him  that 
is  called  Kronos  ;  and  he  drew  another  power 
X  c  Ro^**  ou^  °f  Ipsantachounchainchouche6ch,  who  is  one 
-\jJ<'         of  the  three  triple-powered  gods,  and  bound  it 

i  \iiMrW0  ^°  ^r^s  5   an^  ne  drew  a  power   out  of  Chain- 

choooch,  who  is  also  one  of  the  three  triple- 
powered  gods,  and  bound  it  to  Hermes  ;  and 
again  he  drew  a  power  out  of  Pistis  Sophia, 
daughter  of  Barbelo,  and  bound  it  to  Aphrodite. 
"  Moreover,  reflecting  that  they  had  need  of  a 
ofthefunc-   helm  to  steer  the  world  and  the  seons 

tions  of 

Zeus,  the      of  the  spheres,  that  they  might   not 

chief  re- 
gent, wreck  them  through  their  iniquity,  he 

ascended  into  the  midst,  and  drew  out  a  power 

aX***  from  the  little  Sabaoth,  the  good,  who  is  in  the 

\'  i^^j  midst,  and  bound  it  to  Zeus,  for  he  is  good^  so 

,^'l^y  that  he   might   direct   them    by   his   goodness. 

And  he  set  the  revolution  of  his  order,  (362)  so 

that  he  passeth  three  months  in  each  [of  the 

remaining  four  aeons],  establishing  it,    so    that 


BOOKS   OF   THE    SAVIOUR. 


363 


every  ruler  into  which  he  cometh  is  freed  from 
the  evil  of  his  iniquity.  And  he  [Ieou]  gave 
him  [Zeus]  two  aeons  for  his  habitation,  near 
those  of  Hermes. 

"  I  have  first  told  you  the  names  of  these  five 
great  rulers,  which  the  men  of  the  world  The  _ 
employ.  Hearken  further,  I  will  now  ^l™me* 
tell  you  their  incorruptible  names  also  :  re§ents- 
Orimouth  is  [the  name]  of  Kronos:  Mounichoua- 
phor,  of  Ares  ;  Tarpetanouph,  of  Hermes  ;  Chosi, 
of  Aphrodite ;  Chonbal,  of  Zeus.  These  are 
their  incorruptible  names." 

When  the  disciples  had  heard  these  things, 
they  bowed  down,  and  worshipped  Jesus,  saying : 
"  Blessed  are  we  beyond  all  men,  for  thou  hast 
revealed  unto  us  these  mighty  wonders." 

They  continued  further,  and  besought  him, 
saying  :  "  We  beseech  thee,  reveal  unto  us  why 
these  ways  exist." 

.And  Mary  came  unto  him,  she  bowed  herself, 
and  worshipped  his  feet,  and  kissed  ]^Jt£ues" 
his    hands,    saying:     "Yea,    Master,   Jesus  on 

'        -  «/       o  the  ways  of 

reveal  unto  us  the  need  for  the  ways  the  midst- 
of  the  midst  ;  for  we  have  heard  thee  say  that 
they  are  set  over  great  torments.  How,  then, 
0  Master,  shall  we  go  forth  from  them,  or  how 
shall  we  escape  from  them?  (363)  Or  how  do 
they  seize  hold  of  souls  ?  And  how  long  are 
[souls]  in  their  torments  ?     Have  mercy  upon 


VifC^*«--«^' 


364  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

us,  Master  and  saviour,  lest  the  receivers  carry 
off  our  souls  to  the  judgments  of  the  ways  of  the 
midst,  and  lest  we  be  condemned  in  their  evil 
torments,  that  we,  too,  may  inherit  the  light  of 
thy  father,  and  may  not  be  wretched  and  starv- 
ing without  thee." 

And  when  Mary  had  spoken  these  words  in 
Ofthemys-  tears,  Jesus  answered  in  great  com- 
which  passion  and  said  unto  them  :  "Of  very 

give  unto  truth,  my  brethren  and  well-beloved, 
cipies.  ye  who  have  left  father  and  mother 

for  my  name's  sake,  unto  you  will  I  give  all  the 
mysteries  and  every  gnosis. 

"  I  will  give  unto  you  the  mystery  of  the 
twelve  seons  of  the  rulers,  their  seals,  _their 
numbers,  and  the  manner  of  invocation  to  enter 
into  their  regions. 

"  I  will  give  unto  you,  moreover,  the  mys- 
tery of  the^thirteenth  aeon,  and  the  manner  of 
invocation  to  enter  into  their  regions ;  I  will 
give  unto  you  their  seals  and  their  numbers. 

"And  I  will  give  unto  you  the  mystery  of 
the  baptism  of  them  of__the  midst,  and  the 
manner  of  invocation  to  enter  into  their  regions  ; 
and  I  will  teach  you  their  numbers  and  their  seals. 

"  And  I  will  give  unto  you  the  baptism  of  them 
of  the  right,  its  numbers  and  its  seals,  and  the 
manner  of  invocation  to  enter  into  its  region. 

"  And  I  will  give  unto  you  the  great  mystery 


BOOKS   OF   THE    SAVIOUR.  365 

of  the  treasure  of Jjght?  and  the  manner  of 
invocation  for  entering  therein. 

(364)  "I  will  give  unto  you  all  the  mysteries 
and  every  gnosis,  that  ye  may  be  called  the 
sons  of  the  pleroma,  perfect  in  every  gnosis  and 
every  mystery.  Blessed  indeed  are  ye,  beyond 
all  men,  who  are  on  the  earth,  for  the  sons  of 
light  have  come  in  your  time." 

And  Jesus  continued  in  his  conversation  and 
said  :  "It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  2-t*tion°n" 
after  these  things,  that  the  father  of  of  the  way 

°   7  of  the 

my    father — the    same    is    Ieou — de-   midst. 

4 

scended  and  took  further  three  hundred  and 
sixty  rulers  of  the  rulers  of  Adamas,  who  had 
not  believed  in  the  mystery  of  the  light,  and 
bound  them  in  these  aerial  regions,  in  which 
we  are  now,  below  the  sphere.  He  established, 
moreover,  five  great  rulers  over  them,  who  are 
those  who  are  in  the  way  of  the  midst. 

"  The  first  ruler  of  the  way  of  the  midst  is 
called    Paraplex.       She    is  a  ruler  _of  The  regent 

r  i       r  1  i      •  l      jJL  x.        of  the  first 

iemale  lorm,  whose  hair  reacnetn  unto  d^moniai 
her  feet.  Under  her  authority  are  ierarc  y' 
five  and  twenty  archdaemons,  which  rule  over 
other  hosts  of  daemons.  These  daemons  enter 
into  men  and  make  them  rage  and  curse  and 
slander ;  and  these  also  hurry  off  and  ravish 
souls  and  cast  them  into  the  smoke  of  their 
darkness  and  their  evil  torments." 


366  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

(365)  Mary  said  :  "  Shall  I  behave  un- 
seemly in  questioning  thee  ?  Be  not  wroth 
with  me  searching  out  all  things." 

Jesus  said  unto  her  :  "  Ask  what  thou  wilt." 

Mary  said  unto  him  :  "  Master,  reveal  unto 
us  how_  they  hurry  off  and  ravish  souls,  that 
my  brethren  also  may  know  thereof." 

Jesus^  that  is  to  say,  Aberamentho,  said  : 
0i}Zn,        "  When  the  father  of  my  father— the 

and  Mel-  J 

chisedec.  same  is  Ieou — who  is  the  providence 
of  all  the  rulers  and  gods  and  powers,  which 
are  in  the  matter  of  the  light  of  the  treasure, 
and  Zorokothora  Melchisedec,  who  is  the  legate 
for  all  the  light-powers  which  are  purified 
among  the  rulers,  to  bring  them  into  the 
treasure  of  light — these  two  alone  are  the  great 
lights,  and  their  appointed  task  is  to  descend 
below  among  the  rulers  and  purify  them,  and 
then  Zorokothora  Melchisedec  taketh  away  the 
pure  radiance  of  their  light  from  them  whom 
they  have  cleansed  among  the  rulers,  that  they 
may  bring  it  unto  the  treasure  of  light. 

"  [This  is  done]  when  the  number  and  time 
of  their  task  come  to  pass  for  them  to  de- 
scend among  the  rulers  and  cast  them  down 
and  constrain  them,  taking  away  their  radiance 
from  the  rulers. 

"  But  when  the  time  cometh  for  them  [Ieou 
and  Melchisedec]   to  cease   from   casting   them 


BOOKS   OF   THE    SAVIOUR.  367 

down  and  constraining  them,  and  for  them  to 
return  to  the  regions  of  the  treasure  of  light, 
it  cometh  to  pass,  when  they  come  unto  the 
region  of  the  midst,  that  Zorokothora  Mel- 
chisedec  beareth  away  the  light-radiances  and 
bringeth  them  unto  the  orate  of  them  of  the 
midst,  (366)  to  carry  them  into  the  treasure  of 
light.  Ieou,  also,  withdraweth  into  the  regions 
of  them  of  the  right,  until  the  time  of  the 
number  cometh  for  them  again  to  descend. 

"  Forthwith,  then,  the  rulers  rebel  because  of 
the  wrath  of  their  iniquity,  and  march  How  the 
against  the  light-powers  [of  the  souls],  ^stty 
because  they  [Ieou  and  Melchisedec]  offsouls- 
are  then  no  longer  among  them,  and  they  hurry 
off  [all]  the  souls  they  can  harry  and  ravish,  to 
destroy  them  in  the  smoke  of  their  darkness  and 
their  evil  fire. 

"  Then  it  is  that  this  power,  the  same  Paraplex, 
with  the  daemons  over  which  she  rules,  hurrieth 
off  the  souls  of  the  passionate,  blasphemers,  and 
slanderers,  that  she  may  send  them  into  the 
smoke  of  her  darkness,  and  destroy  them  in  her 
malignant  fire,  that  they  may  begin  to  be  un- 
done and  dissolved.  Thirty  and  three  ^^f^ 
years  and  nine  months  do  they  pass  ments. 
in  the  punishments  of  her  regions,  while  she 
tormenteth  them  in  the  fire  of  her  malignancy. 

"It  cometh  to  pass  after  these  years,  when 


'^^•3 
1*^ 


368  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

the  sphere  of  little  Sabaoth,  [that  is  to  say]  Zeus, 
Of  the  time  revolveth  so  as  to  come  into  the  first 
areTreed118  adon  °^  ^he  sPnere>  which  is  called  in 
torments  of   the  wor^  tae  ^am  °f  Boubastis,  that 


theirmiers.    js   to  say  Aphrodite  ;   when,  then,  she 

\%  [Aphrodite]   shall  have  come  into  the  seventh 

°oj^  house  of  the  sphere,   which  is  the  Balance,  Tit 

J.  7  '      L 

cometh  to  pass  that]  the  veils  between  them  of 
the  right  and  them  of  the  left  are  drawn  aside, 
v;g$r  and  there  glanceth  forth  from  the  height,  among 

them  of  the  right,  the  great  Sabaoth,  the  good, 
(367)  [lord]  of  the  whole  world  and  of  all  the 
sphere.  But  before  he  glanceth  forth,  he  gazeth 
down  on  the  regions  of  Paraplex,  that  they  may 
be  dissolved  and  perish,  and  that  all  the  souls 
which  are  in  her  torments,  may  be  brought  forth 
and  again  led  into  the  sphere,  for  they  are 
perishing  in  the  torments  of  Paraplex." 

He  continued  further  in  his  conversation  and 
The  regent   said:   "The  second  order  [of  the  five 

of  tnp 

second  dee-   dsemonial  rulers],  called  iEthiopic  Ari- 

monial  .  _  ,  -  -— .-     ,      ,  ,      , 

hierarchy,  outh,  is  a  female  ruler,  entirely  black ; 
and  under  her  are  fourteen  [archjdaemons, 
ruling  over  other  hosts  of  daemons.  And  these 
daemons,  under  the  sway  of  iEthiopic  Ariouth, 
are  they  who  enter  into  strife-makers,  to  stir  up 
wars,  so  that  there  may  be  slaughter ;  who 
harden  their  hearts  and  inflame  them  for 
slaughter. 


?  L^Liv^- 


BOOKS   OF   THE    SAVIOUR.  369 

"  And   the  souls,   which  this  power  hurrieth 
off  and  ravisheth,  will  pass  one  hun-    ^  length 

L  of  their  tor- 

clred  and  thirteen  years  in  her  regions,    merits. 
while  she  torments  them  by  the  smoke  of  her 
darkness  and  her   malignant  fire,  so  that  they 
are  brought  nigh  unto  destruction. 

"  And  then,  when  the  sphere  shall  turn,  and 
the  little   Sabaoth,   the   good,   who  is   Of  the  time 

when  souls         j  o<;L«cc4. 

called   in    the   world    Zeus,    when    he   are  freed  , 

from  their  Ca.  e^-U 

shall  come  to  the  fourth  aeon  of  the  torments. 
sphere,  that  is  to  say  the  Crab,  and  when 
Boubastis  shall  come,  who  is  called  in  the  world 
Aphrodite,  when  she  shall  come  into  the  tenth 
aeon  of  the  sphere,  which  is  called  the  Goat. 
(368)  then~the  veils  which  are  between  them 
of  the  left  and  them  of  the  right,  are  drawn 
apart,  that  Ieou  may  gaze  forth  from  the  right, 
that  the  whole  world  may  be  troubled  and  con- 
fused, and  all  the  aeons  of  the  sphere ;  and  he 
will  gaze  on  the  habitations  of  iEthiopic  Ariouth, 
so  that  her  regions  are  dissolved  and  perish,  and 
that  all  the  souls  which  are  in  her  torments  may 
be  restored  to  the  sphere,  for  they  are  perishing 
in  the  smoke  of  her  darkness  and  her  malignant 
fire." 

He  continued  further  in  his  conversation  and 
said :     "Of    the    third    order,    called   The  regent 
triple-faced     Hekate,     there    are    also   ^gemoniai1 
under  her  authority  seven  and  twenty   hierarchy- 


24 


370  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

[arch]daemons.  .  .  .  These  are  they  who  enter 
into  men  to  cause  them  to  commit  perjury  and 
speak  lies,  and  covet  what  doth  not  belong  to 
them. 

"  The  souls,  then,  which  Hekate  will  hurry  off 
T]^  l?n§th   and  ravish,  she  will  hand  over  to  the 

of  their  tor-  ' 

ments.  daemons  under  her  [sway],  that  they 
may  be  tormented  by  the  smoke  of  the  darkness, 
and  its  malignant  fire,  that  they  may  be  mightily 
constrained  by  the  daemons.  One  hundred  and 
five  years  and  six  months  do  they  spend  in  this 
region,  chastised  in  its  malignant  torments,  and 
they  come  nigh  unto  destruction  and  dissolu- 
tion. 

"  After  this,  when  the  sphere  shall  revolve 
Of  the  time  and  the  little  Sabaoth,  the  good,  shall 
are  freed  come,  he  of  the  midst,  whom  they  call 
torments,  in  the  world  Zeus,  when  he  shall  come 
into  the  eighth  aeon  of  the  sphere,  (369)  called 
the  Scorpion,  and  when  Boubastis,  whom  they  call 
Aphrodite,  shall  come  and  enter  into  the  second 
aeon  of  the  sphere  called  the  Bull,  [then]  the 
veils  which  are  between  them  of  the  right  and 
them  of  the  left  are  drawn  aside,  that  Zoroko- 
thora  JiMchisedec  may  look  down  from  on  high, 
and  the  world  be  thrown  into  confusion,  and  its 
mountains,  and  the  aeons  be  troubled,  that  he 
may  look  down  on  all  the  regions  of  Hekate, 
that  her  regions  may  be  dissolved  and   perish, 


BOOKS    OF   THE    SAVIOUR.  371 

and  that  all  the  souls  in  her  torments  may  be 
brought  forth,  and  restored  again  to  the  spheres, 
for  they  are  being  undone  in  the  fire  of  her 
torments." 

He  continued  further  in  his  conversation  and 
said :    "  The    fourth    order    is    called   The  regent 

TT        •  °*  ^ne 

lyphon,  the  assessor.    He  is  a  powerful   fourth  dse- 

monial 

ruler,  having  under  his  authority  two  hierarchy. 
and  thirty  daemons.  These  are  they  who  enter 
into  men  and  make  them  lust,  and  commit 
fornication  and  adultery,  and  be  ever  engaged 
in  intercourse.  The  souls,  then,  which  this 
ruler  will   take    and  ravish,  pass  one   The  length 

.of  their 

hundred  and  twenty-eight  years  in  his   torments. 
region,   while   his   daemons  torment   them   with 
the  smoke  of  the  darkness  and  its  malignant 
fire,  so  that  they  come  nigh  to  dissolution  and 
destruction. 

"  But   it    cometh    to  pass,   when    the    sphere 
turneth,  and  the  little  Sabaoth,  the  good,    Of  the  time 

/  \  ■  n  when  souls 

(370)  he  oi  the  midst,  whom  they  call  are  freed 
Zeus,  cometh,  when  he  shall  have  torments. 
entered  into  the  ninth  aeon  of  the  sphere,  called 
the  Bowman,  and  Boubastis,  whom  they  call 
in  the  world  Aphrodite,  shall  have  come  into 
the  third  of  the  aeons  of  the  sphere,  called  the 
Twins,  that  [then]  the  veils  which  are  between 
them  of  the  left  and  them  of  the  right,  are 
drawn  aside,  that  Zarazaz,  whom  the  rulers  call 


372  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

Maskelli  after  the  name  of  a  powerful  ruler  of 
their  own  regions,  may  gaze  down  on  the 
regions  of  the  habitations  of  Typhon,  the 
assessor,  so  that  his  regions  may  be  dissolved 
and  perish,  and  that  all  the  souls  which  are  in 
his  torments  may  be  brought  forth,  and  again 
restored  to  the  sphere,  for  they  are  being  un- 
done in  the  smoke  of  his  darkness  and  his 
malignant  fire." 

Again  he  continued  further  in  his  conversation 
The  regent  and  sa^  unto  his  disciples  :  "  Of  the 
dlmon?afith  fifth  order  they  call  the  ruler  Iach- 
hierarchy.  thanabas.  He  is  a  powerful  ruler,  having 
under  him  other  hosts  of  daemons.  These  are 
they  who  enter  into  men  and  make  them  corrupt 
— treating  the  just  with  injustice,  favouring  the 
cause  of  sinners,  taking  money  for  a  just  judg- 
ment, and  then  upsetting  it,  forgetting  the  poor 
and  needy,  increasing  the  forgetfulness  of  their 
own  souls,  and  of  anything  of  which  there  is  no 
profit  [to  be  made] — (371)  so  that  they  should 
do  nothing  worthy  of  record  in  their  lives, 
in  order  that  when  they  have  passed  out  of 
their  bodies  they  may  be  hurried  off  bank- 
rupt. 

"The  souls,  then,  which  this  ruler  shall  carry 
The  length    0ff  bankrupt,    shall     continue    in    his 

of  their  i    ' 

torments,  torments  one  hundred  and  fifty  years 
and  eight  months,  that  he  may  destroy  them  by 


BOOKS   OF   THE    SAVIOUK.  373  *       i    aO 

the  smoke  of  his  darkness  and  his  malignant  fire,  /*■  L^^,  <\ 
that  they  may  be  mightily  constrained  by  the  ^JiU^^l 
flames  of  his  fire.  t^Vc/l^^y    * 

"And  when    the   sphere   turneth    and    there  ^x^/^^/'^  ^ 
cometh  the  little   Sabaoth,   the   good,    Of  the  time    <u„^^-    ,.^3 

°  when  souls      C 

whom  they    call   in    the    world    Zeus,    are  freed       2  t>*U~c  /  y~ 

J  from  their  •]   /  '   ' 

when  he  cometh  into  the  eleventh  aeon   torments.      5Kt/  3  "p" 

of  the  sphere,  called  the  Waterer,  and  Boubastis     .  ; 

cometh  into  the  fifth  aeon  of  the  sphere,  called  '     ^ 

the  Lion,  then  the  veils  which  are  between  them 

of  the   left  and  them  of  the  right,   are  drawn 

aside,  that  the  great  Iao,  the  good,  he  of  the 

midst^  who  presideth  over  the  region  of  Iach- 

thanabas,  may  gaze  forth,  that  his  regions  may 

be  dissolved  and  perish,  and  that  all  the  souls 

which  are  in  his  torments  may  be  brought  forth 

and  again  restored  to  the  sphere,  for  they  are 

perishing  in  his  torments. 

"  These  then  are  the  operations  of  the  ways  of 
the  midst  concerning  which  ye  have  questioned 
me." 

And  when  the  disciples  had  heard  this,  they 
bowed  down  and  adored  him  saying  :  The  dis. 
"  Save  us,  0  Master,  have  mercy  upon  seech  Jesus 
us,  that  we  may  be  preserved  from  ^ercyupon 
these  malignant  torments  which  are  smners- 
prepared  for  sinners.  (372)  Woe  unto  them  ! 
woe  unto  the  children  of  men  !  for  they  are  like 
the  blind  feeling  in  the  darkness,  and  seeing  not. 


374  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

Have  mercy  upon  us,  0  Master,  in  the  great 
blindness  in  which  we  are ;  and  have  mercy 
upon  the  whole  race  of  human  kind,  for  they  lie 
in  wait  for  their  souls,  as  lions  for  their  prey,  to 
tear  them  in  pieces  and  make  food  for  their  tor- 
ments, because  of  the  forgetfulness  and  ignorance 
in  which  they  are.  Have  mercy,  therefore,  upon 
us,  0  Master,  our  saviour,  have  mercy  upon  us, 
preserve  us  from  this  great  stupor." 

Jesus  said  unto  his  disciples  :  "  Have  courage, 
Jesus  en-      ^ear    n0^j   f°r  ye    are  blessed ;  nay,    I 

hisUSs-eth  wil1  make  y°u  lorcls  over  a11  these, 
Clples*  and  place    them    in   subjection   under 

your  feet.  Ye  remember,  that  I  have  already 
said  unto  you  before  my  crucifixion,  '  I  will  give 
unto  you  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  the 
heavens.'  Now  again  I  say  unto  you,  I  will  give 
them  unto  you." 

When,  then,  Jesus  had  thus  spoken,  he  chanted 
Jesus  and      an  invocation  in  the  great  name,  and 

hisdis-  • -"""^  "  e " 

cipies  as-      tne  regions  of  the   ways  of  the  midst 

cend  °  J 

higher.  were  hidden  from  view,  and  Jesus  and 
his  disciples  remained  in  an  atmosphere  of 
exceeding  great  light. 

Jesus  said  to  his  disciples  :  "  Come  unto  me." 
He  breath-    ^nd  they  came  unto  him.     He  turned 

eth  on  their  J  ■ — 

eyes-  towards  the  four^angles  of  the_world  ; 

he  uttered  the  great_jiame  over  their  heads,  and 
blessed  them  and  breathed  on  their  eyes^ 


BOOKS   OF   THE    SAVIOUR.  375 

Jesus  said  unto  them  :  "  Look  up,  and  mark 
what  ye  see  !  " 

And  they  raised  their  eyes  unto  the  height, 
(373)  and  saw  a  great^Jight,  exceed-    Their  eyes 
ingly  brilliant,  which  no  man  in    the   are  °Pened- 
world  could  describe. 

He  said  unto  them  a  second  time :  "  Look 
into  the  light,  and  mark  what  ye  see  !  ' 

They  said  :  "  We  see  fire  and  water,  and  wine 
and  blood." 

Jesus,  that  is  to  say  Aberamentho,  said  unto 
his  disciples  :  "  Amen,  I  say  unto  you,    Jesus  ex- 

plaineth 

I  have  brought  nothing  into  the  world   the  vision 

of  fire  and 

when  I  came,  save  this  fire  and  water,    water,  and 

i  •  •  Till         t  i  i         t  wine  and 

this  wine  and  blood.  1  brought  down  blood. 
the  water  and  fire  from  the  region  of  the  light 
of  light,  from  the  treasure  of  light ;  I  brought 
down  the  wine  and  the  blood  from  the  region  of 
Barbelo.  And  shortly  after  my  father  sent 
unto  me  the  holy  breath  in  the  form  of  a 
dove. 

"  The  fire,  the  water,  and  the  wine  are  for 
cleansing  all  the  sins  of  the  world  ;  the  blood 
I  had  as  a  sign  of  the  body  of  human  kind, 
and  I  received  it  in  the  region  of  Barbelo,  the 
great  power  of  the  divine  invisible  ;  while  the 
breath  draweth  all  souls  and  bringeth  them  unto 
the  region  of  light. 


376  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

The  same  "  For    this   cause  have  I  said  unto 

Gained  ^       y0U'    '  ^     am    come  ^°    cas^    &ie    on    ^ne 

from  for-       earth ' ;  that  is  to  say,  I  am   come  to 

mer  say-  '  •>  ' 

ings.  purify  the  sins  of  the  whole  world  with 

fire. 

"  For  this  cause  I  said  to  the  Samaritan 
woman,  '  If  thou  hadst  known  of  the  gift  of 
God,  and  who  hath  said  unto  thee,  "  Give  me 
to  drink,"  (374)  thou  wouldst  have  asked  him 
to  give  thee  living  water,  that  thou  mightest 
have  had  a  fountain  welling  up  in  thee  for  life 
eternal.' 

"  For  this  cause,  also,  I  took  a  cup  of  wine, 
and  blessed  it,  and  gave  it  unto  you,  saying, 
'  This  is  the  blood  of  the  covenant  which  shall 
be  poured  out  for  you,  for  the  remission  of 
your  sins.' 

"  For  this  cause,  also,  they  pierced  my  side 
with  a  spear,  and  there  came  forth  water  and 
blood. 

"  These  are  the  mysteries  of  the  light  which 
remifc  sins  ;  that  is  to  say,  these  are  the  appella- 
tions and  names  of  [these  mysteries  of]  the 
light." 

It  came  to  pass  after  this,  that  Jesus  gave 
Jesus  and     ^e  command,  "  Let  all  the  powers  of 

his  dis-  L 

cipiesde-      the  left  return  to  their  regions."     And 

scend  to  the  ° 

earth.  Jesus    and    his    disciples    were    [once 

more]  on  the  Mount  of  Galilee.      And  the  dis- 


BOOKS    OF   THE    SAVIOUR.  377 

ciples  continued  further  and  besought  him  : 
"  How  loner,  then,  will  it  be  before  thou  shalt 
cause  the  sins  and  iniquities  which  we  have  com- 
mitted, to  be  remitted,  that  we  may  be  worthy 
of    the    kingdom    of   thy  father  ? ': 

And  Jesus   said   unto    them  :  "  Amen,  I    say 
unto  you,  not  only  will  I  purify  your   jeSus  pro- 
sins,  but  I  will  also  make  you  worthy   give  them 
of  the  kingdom  of  my  father  ;  and  I    of^emis-617 
will  give  unto  you  the  mystery  of  the   S10n' 
remission  of  sins   on  the  earth,  so   that  he  to 
whom  ye  shall  remit  on  earth,  shall  be  pardoned 
in  the  heavens,   and  he  whom  ye  shall  bind  on 
earth,   shall  be  bound  in   the  heavens.     I  will 
give  unto  you  the  mystery  of  the  kingdom  of 
the    heavens,    that    ye    also    may  give    it  unto 


men." 


(375)  And  Jesus  said  :  "  Bring  me  some  fire 
and  vine  branches." 

They  brought  them  unto   him.     He  set  out     w.^    \i+ "  l^x 

the    offering,    placing    two   vessels    of  The  mystic  1^-^^^,^ 

wine,  the  one   on  the  right  and    the   sacrament-    '      ^  ^//^ 

other   on    the    left   thereof.     The    offering   was 

set  in  front  [of  the  vessels].     He  placed  a  cup 

of  water  in  front  of  the  vessel  of  wine  on  the 

right,  and  a  cup  of  water  in  front  of  the  vessel 

of  wine  on  the  left.     Between  the  cups  he  _set__ 

pieces  of  bread  according  to  the  number  of  the 

disciples.     The  cups  were  behind  the  bread. 


) 

S       * 

D 

378 


PISTIS    SOPHIA. 


Jesus  stood  before  the  offering  and  grouped 
his  disciples  behind  him,  all  clad  in  linen  gar- 
ments, holding  in  their  hands  the  number  of 
the  name  of  the  father  of  the  treasure  of  light. 
The  sacra-     jje  criecl  aloud,  saying  :  "  Hear  me,  0 

mental  in-  J       ° 

vocation.  father,  father  of  all  fatherhood,  bound- 
less light  ;  iao  iouo  iao  adi  oia  psinother 
ther 'opsin  opsither  nephthomaoth  nephiomadth 
marachachtha  marmarachtha  ieanamenaman 
amanei  of  heaven  israi  hamen  hamen  soiibaibai 
appaap  hamen  hamen  deraarai  hapahou  hamin 
hamSn  sasarsartou  hamen  hamen  koukiamin 
miai  hamSn  hamen  ia'i  iai  touap  hamSn  hamin 
hamen  hamen  mainmari  marie  marei  hamen 
hamen  hamen. 

"  Hear  me,  0  father,  father  of  all  fatherhood. 
(376)  I  invoke  you  also,  ye  who  remit  sins  and 
purify  iniquities.  Remit  the  sins  of  the  souls  of 
these  my  disciples  who  have  followed  me,  and 
purge  their  iniquities ;  make  them  fit  to  be 
reckoned  in  the  kingdom  of  my  father,  the 
father  of  the  treasure  of  light,  for  they  have 
followed  me  and  kept  my  commandments. 

"  Now,  therefore,  0  father,  father  of  all  father- 
hood, let  them  approach  who  remit  sins ;  for 
these  are  their  names :  siphirepsnichieu  zenei 
berimou  sochabricher  euthari  nanai  dieisbal- 
mdrich  meunipos  chirie  entair  mouthiour  smour 
peucher  oouschous  minionor  isochobortha. 


BOOKS   OF   THE    SAVIOUR.  379 

"  Hear  me,  I  invoke  you,  remit  the  sins  of 
these  souls,  and  blot  out  their  offences.  Let 
them  be  fit  to  be  counted  in  the  kingdom  of  my 
father,  the  father  of  the  treasure  of  light. 

"  For  I  know  the  great  powers  and  invoke 
them  :  auer  bebro  athroni  eoureph  eone  souphen 
knitousochredph  mauonhi  mnenor  souoni  chdche- 
tedph  chdcheetedph  memdch  anemph. 

"  Eemit  the  sins  of  these  souls,  blot  out  their 
offences,  both  those  which  they  have  committed 
knowingly,  and  those  they  have  committed  un- 
knowingly,  and  those  which  they  have  committed 
in  fornication  and  adultery  even  unto  this  day, 
remit  them  unto  them,  and  make  them  fit  to 
be  counted  in  the  kingdom  of  my  father,  and 
worthy  to  receive  of  this  offering. 

"  Holy  father,  my  father,  if  then  thou  hast 
heard  me,  (377)  if  thou  hast  remitted  the  sins 
of  these  souls,  and  blotted  out  their  offences, 
and  made  them  fit  to  be  reckoned  in  thy  king- 
dom, give  unto  me  the  sign  in  this  offering."  f\ 

And    the    sign    of    which    Jesus    spake,    was  .« 

given. 

Jesus  said  unto  his  disciples  :  "  Rejoice  and 
be   glad,   for  your    sins    are  remitted,    The  rite  1S 

°  J  '     consum- 

your  offences  blotted  out,  and  ye  have   mated- 
been  numbered  in  the  kingdom  of  my  father." 

And  when  he  had  thus  spoken,  the  disciples 
rejoiced  with  great  joy. 


380  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

Jesus  said  unto  them  :  "This  is  the  rite  and 
Directions  this  is  the  mystery  which  ye  shall 
futu°rehuse  celebrate  for  them  who  believe  in  you. 
of  the  nte.  jf  there  ]je  no  deceit  in  them,  if  they 
hearken  unto  you  in  every  good  thing,  their 
sins  and  their  offences  shall  be  blotted  out 
up  to  the  very  day  on  which  ye  shall  have 
celebrated  for  them  this  mystery.  But  hide  ye 
this  mystery,  give  it  not  unto  every  man,  but 
unto  him  Tonly]  who  shall  do  all  things  which  I 
have  said  unto  you  in  my  commandments. 

"  This  then  is  the  mystery  of  the  reality  of  the 
baptism  of  them  whose  sins  shall  be  remitted 
and  their  offences  blotted  out.  This  is  the 
baptism  of  the  first  offering,  which  leadeth  to 
the  region  of  truth  and  into  the  region  of  light." 

After  this  the  disciples  again  said  unto  him  : 
Of  three        "Master,  reveal  unto  us  the  mystery 

other  great  J  J 

rites.  0f  the  light  of  thy  father,  for  we  have 

heard  thee  say,  '  There  is  a  baptism  of  incense ; 
there  is  a  baptism  of  the  holy  breath  of  the 
light ;  and  there  is  a  spiritual  chrism  ;  (378) 
these  bring  souls  into  the  treasure  of  light.' 
Reveal  unto  us,  therefore,  their  mystery,  that 
we  also  may  inherit  the  kingdom  of  thy  father." 
Jesus  said  unto  them  :  "As  to  these  mys- 
P.f  P16.  ,      teries  which  ye  seek  after,  there  is  no 

highest  of  J 

ail  mys-        mystery  which   is  higher  than   them. 

tenes  and  j  j  o 

of  the  great   They  will  bring   your  souls  into  the 


name. 


BOOKS    OF   THE    SAVIOUE.  381 

liofht   of  lights,   into   the  regions  of   truth    and 
righteousness,  into  the  region  of  the  holy  of  all 
holies,  into   the  region   where   there   is   neither 
female  nor  male,  nor  form  in  that  region,   but 
only  light,  unceasing,  ineffable.     No  mystery  is 
higher    than    these    mysteries    which    ye    seek 
after,  save  only  the  mystery  of  the  seven  voices      Zv_ju  ^  c^o 
and  their  nine  and  forty  powers  and  numbers;         a,  *lm.A« 
the  name  which  is  higher  than  them   all,    the       v>  Jt  -*-s  ~~i~  , 
name  which  sums  up  all  their  names,  all  their    TjUz*  ^v^u^ZT** 
lights  and  all  their  powers.  *  ^^V^Urs  ?<^-c~- 

"  If,  then,  a  man  knoweth  that  name,  when  \^M^^j  . 

he    shall  have   passed  from  the  body   °ithe     . 

r  J      emcacy  of 

of  matter,  no  smoke,  no  darkness,  no  that  name. 
authority,  no  ruler  of  the  sphere  of  the  fate, 
no  angel,  no  archangel,  no  power,  shall  be  able  to 
hold  back  the  soul  that  knoweth  that  name ; 
but  when  it  shall  have  passed  out  of  the  world, 
if  it  uttereth  that  name  to  the  fire,  it  is 
quenched  and  the  darkness  retireth. 

(379)  "  If  it  uttereth  it  to  the  daemons  and 
the  receivers  of  the  outer  darkness,  to  their 
rulers,  their  authorities,  or  their  powers,  they 
shall  all  be  destroyed,  so  that  their  flames  con- 
sume [them],  and  they  shall  cry  aloud,  '  Thou 
art  holy,  thou  art  holy,  most  holy  of  all  holies.' 

"  And  if  a  man  uttereth  that  name  to  the 
receivers  of  the  malignant  torments,  to  their 
authorities  and   all    their   powers,    and  also  to 


382  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

Barbelo,  to  the  invisible  deity  and  the  three 
triple-powered  gods^  the  instant  he  shall  utter 
that  name  in  those  regions,  they  shall  all  fall 
on  their  faces,  and  be  dissolved  and  perish,  and 
cry  aloud,  '  0  light  of  lights,  that  are  in  the 
boundless  lights,  remember  us  also  and  purify 
us. 

When  Jesus  had  finished  speaking  these 
words,  all  the  disciples  cried  aloud,  with  great 
sobs,  saying  : 


The  pun-  m  order  that  they  may  chastise  it  for 
h^that°f  s^x  more  months  and  eight  days,  and 
curseth.  then  bring  it  up  into  the  way  of  the 
midst,  that  each  of  the  rulers  of  the  way  of  the 
midst  may  chastise  it  in  his  torments  for  six 
more  months  and  eight  days,  and  then  bring  it 
unto_J^hj3_ri^^  who  judgeth  the  good 

and_the  evil,  that  she  may  judge  it.  And  when 
the  sphere  shall  turn,  she  will  hand  it  over  to 
her  receivers,  that  they  may  cast  it  into  the 
aeons  of  the  sphere.  And  the  workmen __of_ the 
sphere  will  cast  it  into  the_JjLkfi~ffiidaLis_b£low 
the_sphere,  so  that  this  [lake]  becometh  a  seeth- 
ing fire  and  eateth  into  it,  (380)  until  it  hath 
mightily  purified  it. 

"  Then    cometh     Ialuham,     the    receiver    of 
Sabaoth  Adamas,   who    giveth    the   draught    of 


BOOKS    OF    THE    SAVIOUR. 


383 


oblivion  unto  the  souls,  to  bring  a  draught  full 
of  the  water  of  oblivion  and  give  it  unto  the 
soul,  that  it  may  drink,  and  forget  every  place 
and  every  region  through  which  it  hath  passed, 
so  that  it  be  cast  into  a  body  which  shall  live 
out  its  time  in  constant  sorrow. 

"  This  is  the  punishment  of  him  that  curseth." 

Mary  continued  further  and  said  :  "  Again,  0 

Master,  as  to  the  man  that  persisteth  in  slander^ 

when  he  passeth  out  of  the  body,  whither  shall 

he  go,  and  what  will  be  his  punishment  ? " 

Jesus  said  :  "  When  the  time  [marked]  by  the    lvz.</W^  ,  lu^~ 


Lr 


),U   i/'Lfui*^^ 


sphere  cometh  for  a  man  that  persisteth    0f  the 

in  calumny  to  pass  out  of    the  body,    ^entofthe 

Abiout  and  Charmon,  the  receivers  of  slanderer- 

Ariel,  come  to  draw  that  soul  out  of  the  body, 

and   for   three  days   travel   round    with    it   in-  ^„  Z^^Z,  I**** 

strutting   it   concerning    the    creatures    of    the  £  «  ^  l£T  'Iajul*^ 

world. 

"  Then  they  take  it  below  into  Amenti  unto 
Ariel,  that  he  may  chastise  it  in  his  torments 
eleven    months    and    one    and    twenty     days. 

"  And  then    they  bring   it   into    chaos    unto 
Ialdabaoth  and  his  nine  and  forty  daemons,  that 
each    of  his  daemons  may  assail  it   for    eleven  u^U « « d^  *pr^"> 
more  months  and  one  and  twenty  days,  scourging    ^--^k"    ^  <~  _™^ 
it  with  whips  01  smoke.  ^^V       k     ^ 

"  And  then  they  cast  it  into  rivers  of  smoke    «-\  U~>  Wi  b  --/r.^ 
(381)    and   boiling    seas   of  fire,    to   chastise  it     l^vXC;   i/u^-  U 

!   ^w  ii 


Vt-t 


<^2r 


384  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

therein   for   eleven   more   months   and   one   and 
twenty  days. 

"  After  that,  they  carry  it  into  the  way  of  the 
midst,  that  each  of  the  rulers  who  are  in  the 
way  of  the  midst,  may  chastise  it  in  his  tor- 
ments for  eleven  months  and  one  and  twenty 
days. 

"  After  that,  they  take  it  unto  the  virgin  of 
light,  who  judgeth  the  righteous  and  sinners, 
that  she  may  judge  it,  and,  when  the  sphere 
turneth,  hand  it  over  to  her  receivers,  who  will 
cast  it  into  the  aeons  of  the  sphere,  and  the 
workmen  of  the  sphere  will  carry  it  into  the 
lake  below  the  sphere,  so  that  this  [lake] 
becometh  a  seething  fire  and  eateth  into  it  until 
it  hath  mightily  purified  it. 

"And  then  Ialuham,  the  receiver  of  Sabaoth 
Adamas,  bringeth  a  draught  of  oblivion,  that  it 
may  drink  it  and  forget  every  place  and  every 
region  through  which  it  hath  passed,  so  that  it 
may  be  put  into  another  body  which  shall  pass 
all  its  time  in  affliction. 

"  This  is  the  punishment  of  the  slanderer." 
Mary  said  :  "  Woe,  woe,  unto  sinners  ! " 
And  Salome  spake  and  said  :  "  Jesus, 
Master,  [in  the  case  of]  a  murderer,  who  hath 
committed  no  other  sin  but  that  of  murder,  when 
he  shall  pass  from  the  body,  what  will  be  his 
punishment  ? " 


BOOKS   OF   THE    SAVIOUR.  385 

Jesus    answered    and   said  :    (382)    "  [In   the 

case  of]  a  murderer,  who  hath  commit-    The  punish- 
ment of  the 
ted  no  other  sin  but  that  of  murder,   murderer. 

when  the  time  is  fulfilled  by  the  sphere  for  him 

to  pass  out  of  the  body,  the  receivers  of  Ialda- 

baoth  come  to  lead  his  soul  out  of  the  body, 

and  bind  it  by  the  feet  to  a  great  daemon  with 

the  face  of  a  horse,  to  gallop  round  with  it  three 

days  in  the  world. 

"  And  then  it  is  carried  into  the  regions  of 
ice  and  snow,  to  be  there  chastised  for  three 
years  and  six  months. 

"  And  then  it  is  brought  into  chaos  unto 
Ialdabaoth  and  his  forty  and  nine  daemons,  that 
each  of  his  daemons  may  scourge  it  for  another 
three  years  and  six  months. 

"  After  that  it  is  brought  into  the  chaos  unto 
Persephone,  to  be  punished  in  her  torments 
another  three  years  and  six  months. 

"  After  that  it  is  brought  into  the  way  of  the 
midst,  that  each  of  the  rulers  of  the  midst  may 
punish  it  in  the  torments  of  its  regions  another 
three  years  and  six  months. 

"  After  that  it  is  brought  unto  the  virgin  of 

light,   who  judgeth  the   righteous  and  sinners, 

and,  when  the  sphere  turneth,  she  ordereth  it 

to  be  cast   into   the   outer  darkness,  until  the 

darkness  of  the  midst  shall  be  removed,  so  that 

it  may  cease  to  exist  and  be  dissolved. 

25 


386  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

"  This  is  the  punishment  of  murderers." 
Peter  pro-         Peter  said  :  "  Master,  let  the  women 

against  the    COme     to     an    end     °f    their     questions, 

women.        (383)  that  we  aiso  may  question  thee." 

Jesus  said  unto  Mary  and  the  [other]  women  : 
"  Give  place  to  your  brethren,  that  they  also 
may  question." 

Peter  answered  and  said  :  "  Again,  Master, 
[in  the  case  of]  a  thief,  that  stealeth  secretly, 
and  persisteth  in  his  sin,  when  he  passeth  out 
of  the  body,  what  is  his  punishment  ? " 

Jesus  said  :  "[In  the  case  of]  such  a  man,  when 
The  punish-  his  time  shall  be  accomplished  by  the 
the  thief.  sphere,  the  receivers  of  Adonis  come 
after  him,  to  lead  his  soul  out  of  the  body,  and 
travel  round  with  it  three  days  instructing  it  in 
the  creatures  of  the  world. 

"  Then  it  is  carried  below  into  Amenti  unto 
Ariel,  that  he  may  chastise  it  in  his  torments 
three  months,  eight  days  and  two  hours. 

"  Then  it  is  brought  into  chaos  unto  Ialda- 
baoth  and  his  nine  and  forty  daemons,  in  order 
that  each  of  his  dgemons  may  chastise  it  for 
another  three  months,  eight  days  and  two  hours. 

"  After  that,  it  is  brought  into  the  way  of  the 
midst,  that  each  of  the  rulers  of  the  way  of  the 
midst  may  chastise  it  with  the  smoke  of  his 
darkness  and  his  malignant  fire  for  another 
three  months,  eight  days  and  two  hours. 


BOOKS   OF   THE    SAVIOUR.  387 

"  After  that,  it  is  brought  unto  the  virgin  of 
light,  who  judgeth  the  righteous  and  the  sinners, 
that  she  may  judge  it,  and,  when  the  sphere 
turneth,  she  handeth  it  over  unto  her  receivers 
that  they  may  cast  it  into  the  seons  of  the 
sphere,  and  bring  it  unto  the  lake  below  the 
sphere,  so  that  this  [lake]  becometh  a  seething 
fire,  which  eateth  into  it,  (384)  until  it  is 
mightily  purified. 

"  Then  cometh  Ialuham,  the  receiver  of  Saba- 
6th  Adamas,  to  bring  it  the  draught  of  oblivion, 
and  give  it  unto  the  soul,  that  it  may  drink 
thereof  and  forget  every  place  and  every  region 
through  which  it  hath  passed,  and  be  cast  into 
a  body  lame,  halt  and  blind. 

"This  is  the  punishment  of  the  thief." 

Andrew  spake  and  said  :  "  [In  the  case  of] 
one  proud  and  contemptuous,  when  he  shall 
have  passed  out  of  the  body,  what  shall  be 
done  unto  him  ?  " 

Jesus  said :  "  In  the  case  of  such  a  man, 
when  his  time  is  accomplished  by  the  Thepunish- 
sphere,  the  receivers  of  Ariel  come  JSSemJta! 
after  him  to  lead  out  his  soul,  and  ous* 
travel  round  the  world  with  it  for  three  days, 
instructing  it  in  the  creatures  of  the  world. 

"  Then  it  is  brought  below  into  Amenti  unto 
Ariel,  that  it  may  be  chastised  in  his  torments 
for  twenty  months. 


388  PISTIS   SOPHIA. 

"  After  that,  it  is  brought  into  the  chaos  of 
Ialdabaoth  and  his  nine  and  forty  daemons,  and 
he  and  his  daemons,  each  of  them,  chastise  it 
another  twenty  months. 

"After  that,  it  is  carried  into  the  way  of  the 
midst,  that  each  of  the  rulers  of  the  way  of 
the  midst  may  chastise  it  for  another  twenty 
months. 

"  And  after  that,  it  is  brought  unto  the  virgin 
of  light,  that  she  may  judge  it,  and,  when  the 
sphere  turneth,  she  handeth  it  over  to  her  re- 
ceivers to  cast  it  into  the  aeons  of  the  sphere, 
and  the  workmen  of  the  sphere  bring  it  unto 
the  lake  below  the  sphere,  (385)  so  that  this 
lake  becometh  a  seething  fire,  which  eateth 
into  it,  until  it  hath  purified  it. 

"  And  Ialuham,  the  receiver  of  Sabaoth 
Adamas,  cometh  to  bring  it  the  draught  of 
oblivion  and  give  it  to  the  soul,  that  it  may  drink, 
and  forget  everything  and  every  region  into 
which  it  hath  entered,  and  be  cast  into  a  body, 
lame  and  contemptible,  that  every  one  may 
ever  despise  it. 

"  This  is  the  punishment  of  the  proud  and 
contemptuous  man." 

Thomas  said  :  "  [In  the  case  of]  a  man  that 
blasphemeth  persistently,  what  is  his  punish- 
ment ? " 

Jesus  said :   "  [In   the   case  of]  such    a   man 


BOOKS   OF   THE    SAVIOUR.  389 

when  his  time  is  accomplished  by  the  spheres, 
the  receivers   of   laldabaoth    come  to   Thepunish- 
bind  him    by  the  tongue    to  a   great   j^bias- 
horse-faced  daemon,  and  travel  round   Phemer- 
with    [that   soul]   through  the  world  for  three 
days,  and  punish  him. 

"  Then  it  is  brought  into  the  region  of  ice 
and  snow,  to  be  punished  there  for  eleven  years. 

"Then  it  is  carried  below  into  chaos  unto 
laldabaoth  and  his  nine  and  forty  daemons, 
that  each  of  his  daemons  may  chastise  it  for 
another  eleven  years. 

"  Then  it  is  carried  into  the  outer  darkness, 
until  the  day  when  the  great  dragon-faced  ruler 
(386)  who  encircleth  the  darkness,  shall  be 
judged.  And  that  soul  becometh  hard  frozen, 
it  perisheth  and  is  dissolved. 

"  This  is  the  punishment  of  the  blasphemer." 

Bartholomew  said  :  "  [In  the  case  of]  a  man 
that  lieth  with  a  man,  what  is  his  punishment  ? 

Jesus   said  :   "  [In  the  case  of]  the   Thepunish- 
man   that  lieth   with  a  man,  and  the   JJ^that 
man  with  wdiom  he  lieth,  their  sentence   hathmte.r; 

'  course  with 

is  the  same  as  that  of  the  blasphemer.    males- 
"  When   the  time  is  fulfilled  by  the  sphere, 

the   receivers   of  laldabaoth   come  to  find  their 

souls,   that   he    and  his   daemons  may  torment 

them  for  eleven   years. 

"  Then  they  are  carried  into  the  rivers  of  fire 


390  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

and  seas  of  seething  pitch,  full  of  pig-faced 
daemons  that  eat  into  them,  and  .  .  .  them  in 
the  rivers  of  fire  another  eleven  years. 

"  Then  they  are  carried  into  the  outer  dark- 
ness until  the  day  of  judgment  when  the  great 
darkness  shall  be  judged ;  and  then  they  shall 
be  dissolved  and  perish." 
j  Thomas  said  :  "  We  have  heard  that  there  are 

I  k^    >U    v»      men  on  tne  earth  wno  take  the  sperm  of  men  and   %&~ ' 
WY>     \~^\^P5        "the  flux  of  women,  and  mix  them  with  lentils*  i^^T 
xj^    -Kp^       and  eat  them,  saying,  (387)  '  We  believe  in  Esau^^^* 
°\^o^  ^  ^         and  Jacob.'      Surely  this  is  an  unseemly  deed?"^tU£T 
^^\    ^v^j^^  Then  was  Jesus  wroth   with  the   world  and 


The  punish-   sa^  unto  Thomas  :  "  Amen,  I  say,  this 

h  ^  ^)  foul  ^ct8, of   sm  *s  more  heinous  than  all  sins  and 

^^s^X^    sorcery'        a11  iniquities.       [As  for]  men  of  that 

i*** '*- \t~*9       kind,   they   shall    be    instantly  taken   into   the 

.»  ^y     [^^        outer  darkness,  nor  shall  they  ever  be  brought 

u^     i^^0  mT"       back  to  the  sphere,  but  they  shall  be  destroyed, 

^^^^L-A^  U>°*      they  shall  perish  in  the  outer  darkness,  in  the 

Y^\>  *rX  ^K~       region  where  there  is  no  mercy  and  no  light,  but 

K^      j£*  \\^®~'  weeping   and   gnashing   of  teeth.      And   every 

^%  &         <A         soul  that  shall  be  [thus]  carried  into  the  darkness, 

iyjt  ^Z'  v<-         shall  never  again  return,  but  shall  perish  and  be 

Lv^^^^J    dissolved." 

v+jj****?^  Va^  John  answered  [and  said]  :  "  Again,  [in  the 

A/^y^  case  of]  a  man  who  hath  committed  no  sin,  but 

w^^f     wno  na^n  done  righteousness  persistently,  with- 

./sA^'^r  out  finding  the  mysteries,  so  as  to  be  able  to 


BOOKS    OF   THE    SAVTOUE.  391 

pass  through  the  rulers,  when  he  shall  pass  out 
of  the  body,  what  will  be  clone  unto  him  ? " 

Jesus  said  :      [In   the  case   of]  such    a  man, 
when  his  time  is  accomplished  by  the   of  the  after- 
sphere,  the  receivers  of  Chainchoooch,    0f  the 
who  is  one  of  the  three  triple-powered   monwho 
gods,   come   to  find    his  soul,   to  lead   teenSS*  (Art** 

forth  his  soul  with  joy  and  gladness,    tiated"  0* 

and  travel  round  with  it  three  days,  instructing?^)  \ 
it  in  the  creations  of  the  world  with  joy  and( 
gladness. 

"  Then  they  bring  it  below  into  Amenti  to 
instruct  it  in  the  punishments  that  are  in 
Amenti ;  they  do  not  chastise  it  therein,  but 
merely  instruct  it  concerning  them.  The  heat 
from  the  fire  delayeth  it  only  a  little. 

(388)  "  Then  it  is  carried  into  the  way  of  the 
midst,  to  be  instructed  in  the  punishments  of 
the  ways  of  the  midst ;  the  heat  from  the  fire 
delaying  it  a  little. 

"Then  it  is  brought  unto  the  virgin  of  Uffht, 
that  she  may  judge  it,  and  set  it  near  the  little 
Sabaoth,  the  good,  him  of  the  midst,  until  the 
sphere  turneth,  and  Zeus  and  Aphrodite  come 
before  the  virgin  of  light,  while  Kronos  and 
Ares  are  behind  her. 

"  Then  she  taketh  the  soul  of  that  righteous 
person  to  entrust  it  to  her  receivers,  for  them  to 
cast  into  the  seons  of  the  sphere,   and  for  the 


392  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

workmen  of  the  sphere  to  bring  it  into  a  lake 

below  the  sphere,  so  that  this  [lake]  may  become 

a    seething   fire,    and    eat    into    it   until   it    be 

mightily  purified. 

Then  cometh  Ialuham,  the  receiver  of  Sabaoth 

Adam  as,  who  giveth  the  draught  of  oblivion  unto 

the  souls  ;  he  bringeth  the  draught  of  oblivion  and 

giveth  it  unto  it,  that  it  may  forget  everything 

and  every  region  through  which  it  hath  passed. 

"  Then  there  cometh  a  receiver  of  the  little 

The  cup  of  Sabaoth,  the  good,  him  of  the  midst ; 
wisdom.        |ie  bringeth  a  CUp  fu}}  0f  intuition  and 

wisdom,  and  also  prudence,  and  giveth  it  to 
the  soul,  casteth  the  soul  into  a  body  which 
will  not  be  able  to  fall  asleep  or  forget  because 
of  the  cup  of  prudence  which  hath  been  given 
unto  it,  (389)  but  will  be  ever  pure  in  heart 
and  seeking  after  the  mysteries  of  light,  until 
it  hath  found  them,  by  order  of  the  virgin  of 
light,  in  order  [that  that  soul]  may  inherit  the 
light  for  ever." 

Mary  said  :  "Again,   [in  the  case  of  a  man] 
who    hath  committed    all    [these]    sins  and    all 
[these]  iniquities,  will  he  suffer  all  these  punish- 
ments together  ?  " 
A  ?aV  Jesus    answered  :    "  Yea,    he    shall 

sunereth 

for  each        suffer   them ;    if  he    have    committed 

separate  

sin-  three  sins,  he  shall  suffer  three  punish- 

ments. 


BOOKS   OF   THE    SAVIOUR.  393 

John  said  :  "  Again,  [in  the  case  ofj  a  man 
who  hath  committed  every  sin  and  every  in- 
iquity, but  at  last  hath  found  the  mysteries  of 
light,  can  he  be  saved  ? '; 

Jesus    said  :    "  Such   a  man,  who   hath   com- 
mitted every   sin   and  every  iniquity,    Er^c^eof 
and  hath  found  the  mysteries  of  light,    sinners,  if 

J  he  repent, 

and  hath  performed  them  and  accom-    shall  in- 

1  hent  the 

plished  them,  and  hath  not  fallen  away    kingdom. 
and  committed  sin  [again],  he  shall  inherit  the 
treasure  of  light." 

Jesus   said    unto    his   disciples :     "  When   the 
sphere    shall    turn    and    Kronos    and    0f  the  time 
Ares  shall  come   behind  the  virgin   of   j^g""8 
light,    and  Zeus    and  Aphrodite  shall   tbh^°wfho 
come  before  her,  circling  in  their  own   themys-d 
seons,  the  veils  of  the  virgin   shall  be   teries- 
drawn  aside.      In  that  hour  she  shall  be  filled 
with  joy  seeing  these  two  stars  of  light  before 
her,  and  every  soul  which  at  that  time  she  shall 
cast  into   the  cycle  of  the  aeons   of  the  sphere, 
to    descend    into    the    world,     (390)    shall    be 
righteous  and  good,  and  shall  find  the  mysteries 
of  light  in   that  birth,   and  even  if  it  have  to 
return  to  birth  again,  it  shall  find  the  mysteries 
of  light. 

"  But  if  Ares  and  Kronos  are  before  the  virgin, 
and  Zeus  and  Aphrodite  behind  her,  so  that  she 

doth  not  see  them,  then  every  soul  which  she 

25* 


394  PISTIS    SOPHIA. 

casteth  into  the  creatures  of  the  sphere  at  that 
time,  shall  be  evil  and  wrathful  and  incapable  of 
finding  the  mysteries  of  light." 

Jesus  spake  these  words  unto  his  disciples  in 
the  midst  of  Amenti ;  the  disciples  cried  aloud 
Thedis-  with  sobs  saying:  "Woe,  woe  unto 
seech  Jesus  smners>  on  whom  the  indifference  and 
to  have         forgetfulness  of  the  rulers  lie  heavily, 

mercy  upon  o  J  > 

them.  until    they    pass    out  of   the    body  to 

suffer  these  torments  !  Have  mercy  upon  us, 
have  mercy  upon  us,  son  of  holiness,  that  we 
may  be  saved  from  these  torments  and  these 
judgments  which  are  prepared  for  sinners,  for 
we  also  have  sinned,  0  Master,  our  light." 


.  .  .  the  righteous.  They  went  forth  three  by 
The  preach-  three  to  the  four  points  of  heaven ;  they 
apostles.  preached  the  gospel  of  the  kingdom  in 
the  whole  world,  the  Christ  being  active  with 
them  in  the  words  of  confirmation  and  the  signs 
and  wonders  which  accompanied  them.  And 
thus  was  known  the  kingdom  of  God  in  all  the 
land  and  in  all  the  world  of  Israel,  [and  this  king- 
dom] is  a  testimony  for  all  the  nations  which  are 
from  the  east  even  unto  the  west. 

THE    END. 


WORKS  BY  THE  SAME  AUTHOR. 


SIMON  MAGUS  :  An  Essay. 

The   most   complete   work  on   the   subject.      Quarto.      Price 
cloth,  6s.  6d.  net ;  paper,  5s.  net. 


THE  WORLD  MYSTERY  :  Four  Essays. 

Contents  :  Tho  World-soul ;  Tho  Vestures  of  the  Soul ;  The 
Web  of  Destiny ;  True  Self-reliance.  Octavo.  Price : 
cloth,  3s.  6d.  net. 


THE  THEOSOPHY  OF  THE  GREEKS. 
Plotinus. 

With  an  Exhaustive  Bibliography.  Octavo.  Price :  cloth, 
Is.  net. 

Orpheus. 

With  three  Charts  and  the  most  complete  Bibliography 
extant.  Will  serve  as  an  Introduction  to  Hellenic 
Theology.     Octavo.     Price  :  cloth,  4s.  6d.  net. 


In  Preparation. 

THE  LIVES  OF  THE  LATER  PLATONISTS. 


THE  THEOSOPHY  OF  THE  YEDAS. 
The  Upanishads.     Volume  I. 

Containing  a  Translation  of  the  Isha,  Kena,  Katha,  Prashna 
Mundaka  and  Mandiikya  Upanishads,  with  a  General 
Preamble,  Arguments  and  Notes,  by  G.  R.  S.  Mead  and 
J.  C.  Chattopadhyaya  (Roy  Choudhuei).  Half  octavo. 
Price :  cloth,  Is.  6d. ;  paper,  6d.  net. 

In  Preparation. 

Volume  II. 


THE   THEOSOPHICAL   PUBLISHING  SOCIETY, 
26  Charing  Cross,  London,  S.W. 


Date  Due 

All  library  items  are  subject  to  recall  3  weeks  from 
the  original  date  stamped. 


nr 


DEC  OR  2)10 


MAI 


MM  1  n  ?(i1D 


tthi\ 


OCT  07  2111 


FEB  14. 2005 

FFR  1hk 


SEP  2  2  ?(106 


JAN  0  2  2007 


*wm 


IE 


may  3  o  y\m 


JUN  2  o  m 


JUN  2  2  20( 


^AYJJJOII 


NOV  i  8  ?m 


JUL_2J_2M 


;AN  1 1  l\M 


Brigham  Young  University 


3  1197  00087  6075 


MT    61%| 


»y>-   - 


DATE  DUP^  26W 


•,/    »EB  2  6  1S8?    ,;. 


;= 


JUN 


Q^Lg9l98(i 


-** 


M! 


oft 


-^ 


APR  2  3   ttfttEC  n  2  KQQ 


JUN1  1  1983,  |  JUN  15  19#EC  l5  19811 


JUNSu 


T~ — 


— 


_iJUL_2_§J9S? 


'    • 


0( 


SFP  1  l  T98S 


VUi 


FEB1  O.K 


wn 


«Cf 


J2B_ 


DEC  0  2  I98ff 


APR 


JUL  a  5  19  fe 


MULULJfflg 


07     to 


— — -jcto  g  an 


jFP  »  ^ 


«<** 


gg  1  •- 


~^r 


■  ~irav 


17 


K997 


DEMCO    38-297 


n  j- 


19981 


