LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY 


PEATO 
EUTHYPHRO - APOLOGY 
CRITO - PHAEDO 
PHAEDRUS 


1 
7 | 
1 
u 
μη 
wn 
Tih 
] 
7 
ΓΞῚ 
iis q 
- 
= | 
fi 
iL 
= | 
Init 
We 
q 
TTI 
| ἢ 
mn 
| J 
rl 
iT 
ut Ϊ 
i 
ἴω 
Ὁ} 
ae 
yt 
ΕΞ 
μα 
gil 
— | 
my ἢ ἢ 
il 
«ἢ | 
= 
Ly 
| 
Ti 
Ϊ 
| 
| 
παι ἢ 
“αι ἢ 
= | 
t 
f 


ΠΕΞΙΓΓΞΙΙΓΞΙΓΞΙΓΓΞΙΓΞΙ ΓΞΙΓΓΞΙ ΓΓΞΙ ΓΞῚ ΓΙ [ΠΞῚ ΓΞΙ [ΠΞῚ ΓΞῚ [ΓΞῚ ΓΙ leer rire 
Sa, (ee, qe {πΞ|} {πΞ|{πΞ|}{πΞ|}{πΞ|} {πΞ|}{πΞ|{πΞ|}{πΞ|}{πΞ|}{πΞ|}{πΞ|}{πΞ|} {πΞ|{πΞ|}{πΞ|}} 


Translated by 
HAROLD NORTH FOWLER 


ΠΞΙΠΓΞΙΓΞΙΓΓΞΙ ΓΞΙΓΓΞΙΙΓ 


r= | 
ΙΓ 
iil= : 
] —i |! 
iL — 


PLATO, the great philosopher of Athens, 
was born in 427 Bc. In early manhood an 
admirer of Socrates, he later founded the 
famous school of philosophy in the grove 

Academus. Much else recorded of his life 
is uncertain; that he left Athens for a time 
after Socrates’ execution is probable; that 
later he went to Cyrene, Egypt, and Sicily 
is possible; that he was wealthy is likely; 
that he was critical of ‘advanced’ democ- 
racy is obvious. He lived to be 80 years old. 
Linguistic tests including those of com- 
puter science still try to establish the order 
of his extant philosophical dialogues, writ- 
ten in splendid prose and revealing Socra- 
tes’ mind fused with Plato’s thought. 


In Laches, Charmides, and Lysis, Socrates 
and others discuss separate ethical concep- 
tions. Protagoras, lon, and Meno discuss 
whether righteousness can be taught. In 
Gorgias, Socrates is estranged from his city’s 
thought, and his fate is impending. The 
Apology (not a dialogue), Crito, Euthyphro, 
and the unforgettable Phaedo relate the trial 
and death of Socrates and propound the 
immortality of the soul. In the famous Sym- 
posium and Phaedrus, written when Socrates 
was still alive, we find the origin and mean- 
ing of love. Cratylus discusses the nature 
of language. The great masterpiece in 
ten books, the Republic, concerns righ- 
teousness (and involves education, equal- 
ity of the sexes, the structure of society, 
and abolition of slavery). Of the six so- 
called dialectical dialogues Euthydemus deals 
with philosophy; metaphysical Parmenides is 


Continued on back flap 


MAY 24 2006 


Pilato. 
Plato 
666584 

| aoe 


nn 


Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2007 with funding from 
Microsoft Corporation 


https://archive.org/details/plato01 plat 


PLATO 


FUTHYPHRO} ABOLOGY 
CRITO « PHAEDO™= PHAEDRUS 


WITH AN ENGLISH TRANSLATION BY 


HAROLD NORTH FOWLER 


INTRODUCTION BY W. R. M. LAMB 


HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS 
CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS 
LONDON, ENGLAND 


First published 1914 
Reprinted 1917, 1919, 1923, 1925, 1928, 1933, 1938, 
1942, 1947, 1953, 1960, 1966, 1971, 1977, 1982, 
1999, 1995, 1999, 2005 


LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY® is a registered trademark 
of the President and Fellows of Harvard College 


ISBN 0-674-99040-4 


Printed on acid-free paper and bound by 
Edwards Brothers, Ann Arbor, Michigan 


CONTENTS 


PREFACE 
INTRODUCTION 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


EUTHYPHRO 
THE APOLOGY 
CRITO 
PHAEDO 
PHAEDRUS 


INDEX 


Vili 


eee: ave st 
ἜΝ, aoa 
Sap iy i? ὦ. τ > 
bial ~ = me AL ἐλελπδοιήα, 
τ ΟΠ ΜΥΜΤΌΝΙ 
jo TOOIOTA THE 
PES ew j CVU 
RHE: hoa 2 πεν 
| Ate τ | SUIGRART | 


PREFACE 


Tue Greek text in this volume is based upon that 
of Schanz, and all variations from his readings are 
noted in the margin at the foot of the page. In 
some cases deviations from the reading of the manu- 
scripts have been noted, even when adopted by 
Schanz. In the introductions to the separate dialogues 
no attempt has been made to discuss the philosophy 
of Plato or to do anything more than to supply such 
information as is needed for the intelligent reading 
of these particular dialogues. For further discussion 
and information the reader is referred to the General 
Introduction by Mr. W. R. M. Lamb, of Trinity 
College, Cambridge. 


Harotp N. Fow er. 


Vii 


ΠΥ ΕΣ 


tat? πόσον hoesd δὲ sunuloy Εἰ} αἰ 3 χοὶ dow) ant | 
sia Δ αἰ θά Ὺ etd nowt αὐτοίδαμαν fla bite ens) , 
ms 298g eit to goct Ὑ te aldcem cf! 1h felon. 
nest 567 W golbss: off anon ennitaival zee scot 
τὰ batqeba πρᾶν uavs ibsion. nesd ἄνω atalna, - 
i eoune fall, sdeiacroe ould ot tentdoubonat οὐ αἵ αἰαρ θ᾽ = 
yiqomlidy aly. azovell of shear osed ead Δ 539 on 
doa τίσ se οὐ saris artis aniddyas ἐδ 88 τὸ etal to 
gqelhess Jnapilloted edt πο, tebeen Be reoitanrotal 
Ndieeuorth Ὑλ τοῦ Wa. 2acgolpth salunktiag seat Yo 
leisae® edt ot hovistes Εἰ whasy at ἠοϊδριατόλαὶ Bigs. - 
ὙΠ ΔΗ͂Τ lo ad) MW 2M yd ποβουδοιέπῖ 
siding 


“ΟἽ VM olons 


liv 


GENERAL INTRODUCTION 


Prato was born in 427 s.c. of Athenian parents who 
could provide him with the best education of the 
day, and ample means and leisure throughout his life. 
He came to manhood in the dismal close of the 
Peloponnesian War, when Aristophanes was at the 
height of his success, and Sophocles and Euripides 
had produced their last plays. As a boy he doubtless 
heard the lectures of Gorgias, Protagoras, and other 
sophists, and his early bent seems to have been towards 
poetry. But his intelligence was too progressive to 
rest in the agnostic position on which the sophistic 
culture was based. A century before, Heracleitus 
had declared knowledge to be impossible, because 
the objects of sense are continually changing; yet 
now a certain Cratylus was trying to build a theory 
of knowledge over the assertion of flux, by developing 
some hints let fall by its oracular author about the 
truth contained in names. From this influence Plato 
passed into contact with Socrates, whose character 
and gifts have left a singular impress on the thought 
of mankind. This effect is almost wholly due to 
Plato’s applications and extensions of his master's 

ix 


GENERAL INTRODUCTION 


thought ; since, fortunately for us, the pupil not only 
became a teacher in his turn, but brought his artistic 
genius into play, and composed the memorials of 
philosophic talk which we know as the Dialogues. 
Xenophon, Antisthenes, and Aeschines were other 
disciples of Socrates who drew similar sketches of his 
teaching: the suggestion came from the “mimes” 
of the Syracusan Sophron,—realistic studies of con- 
versation between ordinary types of character. As 
Plato became more engrossed in the Socratic specu- 
lations, this artistic impulse was strengthened by the 
desire of recording each definite stage of thought as 
a basis for new discussion and advance. 

When Plato was twenty years old, Socrates was 
over sixty, and had long been notorious in Athens 
for his peculiar kind of sophistry. In the Phaedo he 
tells how he tried, in his youth, the current scientific 
explanations of the universe, and found them full of 
puzzles. He then met with the theory of Anaxa- 
goras,—that the cause of everything is “ mind.” 
This was more promising: but it led nowhere after 
all, since it failed to rise above the conception of 
physical energy ; this “ mind ”’ showed no intelligent 
aim. Disappointed of an assurance that the universe 
works for the best, Socrates betook himself to the 
plan of making definitions of “ beautiful,’ “ good,” 
“large’’ and so on, as qualities observed in the several 
classes of beautiful, good and large material things, 
and then employing these propositions, if they ap- 
peared to be sound, for the erection of higher 
x 


GENERAL INTRODUCTION 


hypotheses. The point is that he made a new science 
out of a recognised theory of “ideas” or “ forms,” 
which had come of reflecting on the quality predicated 
when we say “this man is good,’ and which postu- 
lates some sure reality behind the fleeting objects of 
sense. His “hypothetical” method, familiar to 
mathematicians, attains its full reach and significance 
in the Republic. 

The Pythagoreans who appear in the intimate 
scene of the Phaedo were accustomed to the theory 
of ideas, and were a fit audience for the highest 
reasonings of Socrates on the true nature of life and 
the soul. For some years before the master’s death 
(399 s.c.) Plato, if not a member of their circle, was 
often a spell-bound hearer of the “satyr.” But 
ordinary Athenians had other views of Socrates, which 
varied according to their age and the extent of their 
acquaintance with him. Aristophanes’ burlesque in 
the Clouds (423 s.c.) had left a common impression 
not unlike what we have of the King of Laputa. Yet 
the young men who had any frequent speech with 
him in his later years, while they felt there was 
something uncanny about him, found an irresistible 
attraction in his simple manner, his humorous insight 
into their ways and thoughts, and his fervent elo- 
quence on the principles of their actions and careers. 
He kept no school, and took no fees; he distrusted 
the pretensions of the regular sophists, with whom 
he was carelessly confounded ; moreover, he professed 
to have no knowledge himself, except so far as to 

xi 


GENERAL INTRODUCTION 


know that he was ignorant. The earliest Dialogues, 
such as the Apology, Crilo, Euthyphro, Charmides, Laches 
and Lysis, show the manner in which he performed his 
ministry. In rousing men, especially those whose 
minds were fresh, to the need of knowing themselves, 
he promoted the authority of the intellect, the law 
of definite individual knowledge, above all reason of 
state or tie of party; and it is not surprising that his 
city, in the effort of recovering her political strength, 
decided to hush such an inconvenient voice. He 
must have foreseen his fate, but he continued his 
work undeterred. 

Though he seems, in his usual talk, to have 
professed no positive doctrine, there were one or two 
beliefs which he frequently declared. Virtue, he 
said, is knowledge; for each man’s good is his 
happiness, and once he knows it clearly, he needs 
must choose to ensue it. Further, this knowledge 
is innate in our minds, and we only need to have it 
awakened and exercised by “ dialectic,” or a system- 
atic course of question and answer. He also be- 
lieved his mission to be divinely ordained, and 
asserted that his own actions were guided at times 
by the prohibitions of a “spiritual sign.” He was 
capable, as we find in the Symposium, of standing in 
rapt meditation at any moment for some time, and 
once for as long as twenty-four hours. 

It is clear that, if he claimed no comprehensive 
theory of existence, and although his ethical reliance 
on knowledge, if he never analysed it, leaves him in 


xii 


GENERAL INTRODUCTION 


a very crude stage of psychology, his logical and 
mystical suggestions must have led his favourite 
pupils a good way towards a new system of meta- 
physics. These intimates learnt, as they steeped 
their minds in his, and felt the growth of a unique 
affection amid the glow of enlightenment, that 
happiness may be elsewhere than in our dealings 
with the material world, and that the mind has 
prerogatives and duties far above the sphere of civic 
life. 

After the death of Socrates in 399, Plato spent 
some twelve years in study and travel. For the 
first part of this time he was perhaps at Megara, 
where Eucleides, his fellow-student and friend, was 
forming a school of dialectic. Here he may have 
composed some of the six Dialogues already men- 
tioned as recording Socrates’ activity in Athens. 
Towards and probably beyond the end of this period, 
in order to present the Socratic method in bolder 
conflict with sophistic education, he wrote the 
Protagoras, Meno, Euthydemus, and Gorgias. These 
works show a much greater command of dramatic 
and literary art, and a deeper interest in logic. The 
last of them may well be later than 387, the year in 
which, after an all but disastrous attempt to better 
the mind of Dionysius of Syracuse, he returned to 
Athens, and, now forty years of age, founded the 
Academy; where the memory of his master was to 
be perpetuated by continuing and expanding the 
Socratic discussions among the elect of the new 


xiii 


GENERAL INTRODUCTION 


generation. The rivalry of this private college with 
the professional school of Isocrates is discernible 
in the subject and tone of the Gorgias. Plato 
carried on the direction of the Academy till his 
death, at eighty-one, in 346; save that half-way 
through this period (367) he accepted the invitation 
of his friend Dion to undertake the instruction of the 
younger Dionysius at Syracuse. The elder tyrant 
had been annoyed by the Socratic freedom of Plato’s 
talk: now it was a wayward youth who refused the 
yoke of a systematic training. What that training 
was like we see in the Republic, where true political 
wisdom is approached by an arduous ascent through 
mathematics, logic, and metaphysics. Plato returned, 
with less hopes of obtaining the ideal ruler, to make 
wonderful conquests in the realm of thought. 

The Meno and Gorgias set forth the doctrine that 
knowledge of right is latent in our minds: dialectic, 
not the rhetoric of the schools, is the means of 
eliciting it. The method, as Plato soon perceived, 
must be long and difficult: but he felt a mystical 
rapture over its certainty, which led him to picture 
the immutable “forms” as existing in a world of 
their own. This feeling, and the conviction whence 
it springs—that knowledge is somehow possible, had 
come to the front of his mind when he began 
to know Socrates. Two brilliant compositions, the 
Cratylus and Symposium, display the strength of the 
conviction, and then, the noble fervour of the 
feeling. In the latter of these works, the highest 
xiv 


GENERAL INTRODUCTION 


powers of imaginative sympathy and eloquence are 
summoned to unveil the sacred vision of absolute 
beauty. The Phaedo turns the logical theory upon 
the soul, which is seen to enjoy, when freed from 
the body, familiar cognition of the eternal types 
of being. Here Orphic dogma lends its aid to the 
Socratic search for knowledge, while we behold an 
inspiring picture of the philosopher in his hour 
of death. 

With increasing confidence in himself as the 
successor of Socrates, Plato next undertook, in 
the Republic, to show the master meeting his own un- 
satisfied queries on education and politics. We read 
now of a “form” of good to which all thought and 
action aspire, and which, contemplated in itself, will 
explain not merely why justice is better than injus- 
tice, but the meaning and aim of everything. In 
order that man may be fully understood, we are to 
view him “writ large” in the organisation of an 
ideal state. The scheme of description opens out 
into many subsidiary topics, including three great 
proposals already known to Greece,—the abolition of 
private property, the community of women and 
children, and the civic equality of the sexes. But 
the central subject is the preparation of the philo- 
sopher, through a series of ancillary sciences, for dia- 
lectic ; so that, once possessed of the supreme truth, 
he may have light for directing his fellow-men. As 
in the Phaedo, the spell of mythical revelation is 
brought to enhance the discourse of reason. The 

xv 


GENERAL INTRODUCTION 


Phaedrus takes up the subject of rhetoric, to lead us 
allegorically into the realm of “ ideas,” and thence to 
point out a new rhetoric, worthy of the well-trained 
dialectician. We get also a glimpse of the philo- 
sopher’s duty of investigating the mutual relations of 
the “ forms ᾿ to which his study of particular things 
has led him. 

A closer interest in logical method, appearing 
through his delight in imaginative construction, is 
one distinctive mark of this middle stage in Plato’s 
teaching. As he passes to the next two Dialogues, 
the Theaeletus and Parmenides, he puts off the 
aesthetic rapture, and considers the ideas as cate- 
gories of thought which require co-ordination. The 
discussion of knowledge in the former makes it 
evident that the Academy was now the meeting- 
place of vigorous minds, some of which were eager 
to urge or hear refuted the doctrines they had 
learnt from other schools of thought; while the 
arguments are conducted with a critical caution 
very different from the brilliant and often hasty 
zeal of Socrates. The Parmenides corrects an actual 
or possible misconception of the theory of ideas in 
the domain of logic, showing perhaps how Aristotle, 
now a youthful disciple of Plato, found fault with 
the theory as he understood it. The forms are viewed 
in the light of the necessities of thought: knowledge 
is to be attained by a careful practice which will raise 
our minds to the vision of all particulars in their 
rightly distinguished and connected classes, 


XVI 


GENERAL INTRODUCTION 


Plato is here at work on his own great problem :— 
If what we know is a single permanent law under 
which a multitude of things are ranged, what is the 
link between the one and the many? The Sophist 
contains some of his ripest thought on this increas- 
ingly urgent question: his confident advance beyond 
Socratic teaching is indicated by the literary form, 
which hardly disguises the continuous exposition of a 
lecture. We observe an attention to physical science, 
the association of soul, motion, and existence, and 
the comparative study of being and not-being. The 
Politicus returns to the topic of state-government, 
and carries on the process of acquiring perfect 
notions of reality by the classification of things. 
Perhaps we should see in the absolute “mean” 
which is posited as the standard of all arts, business, 
and conduct, a contribution from Aristotle. The 
Philebus, in dealing with pleasure and knowledge, 
dwells further on the correct division and classific- 
ation required if our reason, as it surely must, is to 
apprehend truth. The method is becoming more 
thorough and more complex, and Plato’s hope of 
bringing it to completion is more remote. But he is 
gaining a clearer insight into the preblem of unity 
and plurality. 

The magnificent myth of the Timaeus, related 
by a Pythagorean, describes the structure of the 
universe, so as to show how the One manifests 
itself as the Many. We have here the latest 
reflections of Plato on space, time, soul, and many 

xvii 


GENERAL INTRODUCTION 


physical matters. In the lengthy treatise of the 
Laws, he addresses himself to the final duty of the 
philosopher as announced in the Republic: a long 
habituation to abstract thought will qualify rather 
than disqualify him for the practical regulation of 
public and private affairs. Attention is fixed once 
more on soul, as the energy of the world and the 
vehicle of our sovereign reason. 

Thus Plato maintains the fixity of the objects of 
knowledge ina great variety of studies, which enlarge 
the compass of Socrates’ teaching till it embraces 
enough material for complete systems of logic and 
metaphysics. How far these systems were actually 
worked out in the discussions of the Academy we can 
only surmise from the Dialogues themselves and a 
careful comparison of Aristotle; whose writings, 
however, have come down to us in a much 
less perfect state. But it seems probable that, to 
the end, Plato was too fertile in thought to rest 
content with one authoritative body of doctrine. 
We may be able to detect in the Zimaeus a tendency 
to view numbers as the real principles of things ; and 
we may conjecture a late-found interest in the 
physical complexion of the world. As a true artist, 
with a keen sense of the beauty and stir of life, 
Plato had this interest, in a notable degree, through- 
out: but in speaking of his enthusiasm for science 
we must regard him rather as a great inventor of 
sciences than as what we should now call a scientist. 
This is giving him a splendid name, which few men 


XViii 


GENERAL INTRODUCTION 


have earned. Some of his inventions may be un- 
realisable, but it is hard to find one that is certainly 
futile. There are flaws in his arguments: to state 
them clearly and fairly is to win the privilege of 
taking part in a discussion at the Academy. 


W. R. M. Lames. 


ΟΝ ΣΟΥ τοι 
] 1.1 at RAY δῖ OS ιν τς 
i 7 μαι 
: a re 
Ὁ aia νὗ ‘ iy sa 
τὰκ (αν. cae 
a is h ; 
A Γ 
i Ἰ ar | i ἯΙ τ 8 
) 5 
4 ‘< ~eeeery 7 a's 
A. cy f ι awe 
se " ν» 
~ 2 ry i a > ΄ δ ἀφ 
Ore [κά “δα ΨΨῃ "οἷ ᾿ α 
ty μέ κτο eu συ at ἢ ΠΡ ι εἰρη - 


@ 
6 δὺ 7 
Ἵ a 
Ps ω. 
᾿ 
Δ} 
» ᾿ 
€ "1 P 
Ἵ τ A 
οὐδ: 2 
ὃ. ᾿ ‘ ᾿ fi 9 
. a ᾿ ᾿ 
ἢ Pot ee 
q Δ war tog 
ΠῚ - ct ᾿ ᾿ ν᾿ 
Π ᾿ " Ν Π = 
> aS ᾿ ΝΙΝ pers 


fe ? aig beg abi 


bret 


iw Vie faitalet 
we ay pane 


= 
_ =| ἘΣΤΙ never) aa 
7 - ῥαξὲ in ὦ ων ¥ ΝΣ 


2 


ΗΝ ant μή 7 
a ann hdr 
~ _ _ ᾿ ts 


ἡ τὸ 


BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE (1990) 


For comprehensive bibliographies the reader is referred 
to W. K. C. Guthrie, A History of Greek Philosophy, 
Volume Four: Plato, The Man and His Dialogues, Earlier 
Period, Cambridge, 1975, pages 562-581, and Volume 
Five: The Later Plato and the Academy, Cambridge, 
1978, pages 493-514. The following is a selection of 
recent work on the dialogues included in this volume. 


Euthyphro 

Reginald E. Allen: Plato’s ‘Euthyphro’ and Earlier The- 
ory of Forms, London, 1970. 

Laszlo Versenyi: Holiness and Justice: An Interpretation 
of Plato’s Euthyphro, Washington, D.C., 1982. 


Apology 

Reginald E. Allen: Socrates and Legal Obligation (includ- 
ing trs. of Apology and Crito), Minneapolis, 1980. 

T. C. Brickhouse and N. D. Smith: Socrates on Trial, 
Oxford, 1988. 

C. D. C. Reeve: Socrates in the Apology, Indianapolis, 
1989. 

I. F. Stone: The Trial of Socrates, New York, 1988. 

Thomas G. West: Plato’s Apology of Socrates: An Inter- 
pretation with a New Translation, Ithaca, 1979. 


Crito 
Anthony Douglas Woozley: Law and Obedience: The 
Arguments of Plato's Crito, Chapel Hill, 1979. 


Phaedo 

David Bostock: Plato’s Phaedo, Oxford, 1986. 

Kenneth Dorter: Plato's Phaedo, An Interpretation, 
Toronto, 1982. 

David Gallop: Plato’s Phaedo, Translation and Notes, 
Oxford, 1975. 


Phaedrus 

Giovanni Ferrari: Listening to the Cicadas: A Study of 
Plato's Phaedrus, Cambridge, 1987. 

Charles L. Griswold: Self-knowledge in Plato’s Phaedrus, 
New Haven, 1986. 


General 
Terence Irwin: Plato’s Moral Theory: The Early and 
Middle Dialogues, Oxford, 1977. 


Surveys 

L. Brisson: “Platon 1958-1975,” Lustrum xx (1977) 5- 
304. 

L. Brisson (with H. Ioannidi): “Platon 1975~1980, ' Lus- 
trum ΧΧν (1983) 31-320. 


EOTHYPHRO 


isin > Pheuetr vs 7 
Cexile & Coins fakes 


= OREVHTUS τ τος 


General. 
Terese Itwth Pisles ἥρω Phauein Thi ae 
Ὅν Dialogues mi en bd 


ΒΩ πα 7 ἊΝ 
Eames ᾿ 


a δ ΝΣ poe, Laan μὰ 


he Bete δ ivdnialibit pia ΟΣ 
Hd dr hs {δῷ Se τι 


{INTRODUCTION TO THE EUTHYPHRO 


Tue Euthyphro probably owes its place at the head 
of the list of dialogues to the fact that it is the first 
of four dialogues dealing with the trial and death ot 
Socrates. It is probably one of the earliest in date 
of composition, though that fact is not likely to have 
affected its position in the series. 

Socrates comes to the court of the king archon to 
attend to some preliminaries of his trial on the 
charge of impiety and corrupting the youth. Here 
he meets Euthyphro, who is bringing a charge of 
manslaughter against his father, on account of the 
death from exposure of a servant who is himself a 
murderer. Euthyphro says that he is bringing the 
charge in the interest of piety, and claims to know 
more than other men about the nature of piety, 
proper religious observances, and the will of the 
gods. It is this claim which leads to the discussion 
of the nature of piety, or holiness, the chief theme 
of the dialogue. 

The purpose of the dialogue is in part to inculcate 
correct methods of thinking, more especially the 
dialectic method. Euthyphro, when requested to 
give a definition of piety or holiness says (5p) “1 
say that holiness is doing what I am doing now, 
prosecuting the wrongdoer who commits murder or 

1 Of Euthyphro nothing further is known. He may be 


identical with the Euthyphro who appears in the Cratylus 
as a philologian addicted to fanciful etymologies. 


3 


INTRODUCTION TO THE EUTHYPHRO 


steals from the temples or does any such thing, 
whether he be your father or your mother or anyone 
else; and not prosecuting him is unholy.” ‘This 
reply leads at once to the proof that a particular 
example does not constitute a definition of a general 
concept. The second definition offered by Euthy- 
phro is emended until it takes the form (9 £) “ What 
all the gods love is holy, and on the other hand, 
what they all hate is unholy.”” The question then 
arises whether a thing is holy because the gods love 
it, or the gods love it because it is holy. Cause and 
effect are discussed. In an attempt to arrive at a 
third definition, Euthyphro flounders hopelessly, 
whereupon Socrates shows how terms may be 
defined by referring a species to a genus.!_ Finally 
Euthyphro states (12 £) that “the part of the right 
which has to do with attention to the gods consti- 
tutes piety and holiness.’’ Hereupon Socrates tries 
to get him to tell what attention the gods require, 
what end human service to the gods has in view. 
In this he does not succeed, and the dialogue ends 
with this question unanswered. 

Instruction in methods of thinking may perhaps 
seem needless to modern readers; even they, how- 
ever, may find it interesting, and in Plato’s times it 
was undoubtedly necessary. Such instruction occu- 
pies an important place in most of the Platonic 
dialogues. In the Euthyphro the correct method of 
thinking is illustrated and inculcated in the course 
of an attempt to define piety or holiness. The two 
definitions offered by Euthyphro are rejected; the 
third is left unchallanged, though a further limita- 
tion is demanded. It may therefore be regarded as 


1 See 11 σα note. 


INTRODUCTION TO THE EUTHYPHRO 


a definition accepted by Plato, but not considered 
complete until the purpose of our service to the gods 
is determined. How Plato would determine it may 
be seen in the Apology (30a), where Socrates says 
his life has been spent in the endeavour to persuade 
men to care chiefly for the perfection of their souls. 
The Euthyphro may perhaps be regarded as a sort 
of scientific justification of the position taken in the 
Apology. 

Special editions of the Euthyphro are numerous. 
Among them those of Schanz (1887), Christ (1890), 
Adam (1890), and Heidel (1902) may be chosen for 
especial mention. The last named contains an ex- 
haustive bibliography. 


ΕὙΘΥΦΡΩΝ 


[Η ΠΕΡῚ ΟΣΙΟΥ͂, ΠΕΙΡΑΣΤΙΚΟΣΊ] 


TA TOY ΔΙΑΛΟΓΟΥ ΠΡΟΣΩΠΑᾺΑ 
ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ, ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ 


1. ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Τί νεώτερον, ὦ Σώκρατες, γέγονεν, 
ὅτι σὺ τὰς ἐν Λυκείῳ καταλιπὼν διατριβὰς ἐνθάδε 
νῦν διατρίβεις περὶ τὴν τοῦ βασιλέως στοάν; οὐ 
γάρ που καὶ σοί γε δίκη τις οὖσα τυγχάνει πρὸς 
τὸν βασιλέα ὥσπερ ἐμοί. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὔτοι δὴ ᾿Αθηναῖοί γε, ὦ Ἐὐθύφρον, 
δίκην αὐτὴν καλοῦσιν, ἀλλὰ γραφήν. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Τί φής; γραφήν σέ τις, ὡς ἔοικε, 
γέγραπται; οὐ γὰρ ἐκεῖνό γε καταγνώσομαι, ὡς 

δ 
σὺ ἕτερον. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐ γὰρ οὗν. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡων. ᾿Αλλὰ σὲ ἄλλος; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. [Πάνυ γε. 

ErerePan. Τίς οὗτος: 

SQKPATHS. Οὐδ᾽ αὐτὸς πάνυ τι γιγνώσκω, @ 
Εὐθύφρον, τὸν ἄνδρα" νέος γάρ τίς μοι φαίνεται 
καὶ ἀγνώς" ὀνομάζουσι μέντοι αὐτόν, ὡς ἐγώμαι, 
Μέλητον. ἔστι δὲ τῶν δήμων Πιτθεύς, εἴ τινα 
νῷ ἔχεις Πιτθέα Μέλητον οἷον τετανότριχα καὶ 
οὐ πάνυ εὐγένειον, ἐπίγρυπον δέ. 


6 


EUTHYPHRO 
[or ON HOLINESS, a TENTATIVE DIALOGUE] 


CHARACTERS 
ΕΥΤΗΥΡΗΒΟ, SocRATES 


EUTHYPHRO. What strange thing has happened, 
Socrates, that you have left your accustomed haunts 
in the Lyceum and are now haunting the portico 
where the king archon sits? For it cannot be that 
you have an action before the king, as I have. 

socrates. Our Athenians, Euthyphro, do not call 
it an action, but an indictment. 

ruTHYPHRO. What? Somebody has, it seems, 
brought an indictment against you; for I don't 
accuse you of having brought one against anyone 
else. 

socraTes. Certainly not. 

EuTHYPHRO. But someone else against you? 

SOCRATES. Quite so. 

EuTHYPHRO. Who is he? 

socraTes. I don’t know the man very well myself, 
Euthyphro, for he seems to be a young and unknown 
person. His name, however, is Meletus, I believe. 
And he is of the deme of Pitthus, if you remember 
any Pitthian Meletus, with long hair and only a 
little beard, but with a hooked nose. 


PLATO 


Εὐθύφρων. Οὐκ ἐννοῶ, ὦ Σώκρατες: ἀλλὰ δὴ 

Ο τίνα γραφήν σε γέγραπται; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἥντινα; οὐκ ἀγεννῆ, ἔμοιγε δοκεῖ: 
τὸ γὰρ νέον ὄντα τοσοῦτον πρᾶγμα ἐγνωκέναι οὐ 
φαῦλόν ἐστιν" ἐκεῖνος γάρ, ὥς φησιν, οἶδε, τίνα 
τρόπον οἱ νέοι διαφθείρονται καὶ τίνες οἱ διαφθεί- 
ροντες αὐτούς" καὶ κινδυνεύει σοφός τις εἶναι" καὶ 
τὴν ἐμὴν ἀμαθίαν κατιδὼν ὡς διαφθείροντος τοὺς 
ἡλικιώτας αὐτοῦ, ἔρχεται κατηγορήσων μου ὡς 
πρὸς μητέρα πρὸς τὴν πόλιν. καὶ φαίνεταί μοι 
τῶν πολιτικῶν μόνος ἄρχεσθαι ὀρθῶς: ὀρθῶς γάρ 

D ἐστι τῶν νέων πρῶτον ἐπιμεληθῆναι, ὅπως ἔσονται 
ὅ τι ἄριστοι, ὥσπερ γεωργὸν ἀγαθὸν τῶν νέων 
φυτῶν εἰκὸς πρῶτον ἐπιμεληθῆναι, μετὰ δὲ τοῦτο 
καὶ τῶν ἄλλων: καὶ δὴ καὶ Μέλητος ἴσως πρῶ- 

3 τὸν μὲν ἡμᾶς ἐκκαθαίρει τοὺς τῶν νέων τὰς 
βλάστας διαφθείροντας, ὥς φησιν: ἔπειτα μετὰ 
τοῦτο δῆλον ὅτι τῶν πρεσβυτέρων ἐπιμεληθεὶς 
πλείστων καὶ μεγίστων ἀγαθῶν αἴτιος τῇ πόλει 
γενήσεται, ὥς γε τὸ εἰκὸς ξυμβῆναι ἐκ τοιαύτης 
ἀρχῆς ἀρξαμένῳ. 

2. Εὐθύφρων. Βουλοίμην ἄν, ὦ Σώκρατες, ἀλλ᾽ 
ὀρρωδῶ, μὴ τοὐναντίον γένηται. ἀτεχνῶς γάρ μοι 
δοκεῖ ad’ ἑστίας ἄρχεσθαι κακουργεῖν τὴν πόλιν, 
ἐπιχειρῶν ἀδικεῖν σέ. , καί μοι λέγε, τί καὶ 
ποιοῦντά σέ φησι διαφθείρειν τοὺς νέους; 

Β ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἄτοπα, ὦ θαυμάσιε, ὡς οὕτω γ᾽ 
ἀκοῦσαι. φησὶ γάρ με ποιητὴν εἶναι θεῶν, καὶ 
ὡς καινοὺς ποιοῦντα θεούς, τοὺς δ᾽ ἀρχαίους οὐ 
νομίζοντα, ἐγράψατο τούτων αὐτῶν ἕνεκα, ὥς 


φησιν. 


ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦρων. Μανθάνω, ὦ Σώκρατες" ὅτι δὴ σὺ 
8 


EUTHYPHRO 


EUTHYPHRO. I don’t remember him, Socrates. 
But what sort of an indictment has he brought 
against you? 

socRATEs. What sort? No mean one, it seems 
to me; for the fact that, young as he is, he has 
apprehended so important a matter reflects no small 
credit upon him. For he says he knows how the youth 
are corrupted and who those are who corrupt them. 
He must be a wise man; who, seeing my lack of 
wisdom and that I am corrupting his fellows, comes 
to the State, as a boy runs to his mother, to accuse 
me. And he seems to me to be the only one of 
the public men who begins in the right way ; for the 
right way is to take care of the young men first, to 
make them as good as possible, just as a good 
husbandman will naturally take care of the young 
plants first and afterwards of the rest. And so 
Meletus, perhaps, is first clearing away us who 
corrupt the young plants, as he says; then after 
this, when he has turned his attention to the older 
men, he will bring countless most precious blessings 
upon the State,—at least, that is the natural out- 
come of the beginning he has made. 

EUTHYPHRO. I hope it may be so, Socrates; but 
I fear the opposite may result. For it seems to me 
that he begins by injuring the State at its very heart, 
when he undertakes to harm you. Now tell me, 
what does he say you do that corrupts the young? 

socraTes. Absurd things, my friend, at first 
hearing. For he says I am a maker of gods; and 
because I make new gods and do not believe in the 
old ones, he indicted me for the sake of these old 
ones, as he says. 

EUTHYPHRO. I understand, Socrates; it is because 


9 


PLATO 


τὸ δαιμόνιον φὴς σαυτῷ ἑκάστοτε γίγνεσθαι. ὡς 
οὖν καινοτομοῦντός σου περὶ τὰ θεῖα γέγραπται 
ταύτην τὴν γραφήν, καὶ ὡς διαβαλῶν δὴ ἔρχεται 
εἰς τὸ δικαστήριον, εἰδὼς ὅτι εὐδιάβολα τὰ 
τοιαῦτα πρὸς τοὺς πολλούς. καὶ ἐμοῦ γάρ τοι, 
ὅταν τι λέγω ἐν τῇ ἐκκλησίᾳ περὶ τῶν θείων, 
προλέγων αὐτοῖς τὰ μέλλοντα, καταγελῶσιν ὡς 
μαινομένου. καίτοι οὐδὲν ὅ τι οὐκ ἀληθὲς εἴρηκα 
ὧν προεῖπον, ἀλλ᾽ ὅμως φθονοῦσιν ἡμῖν πᾶσι τοῖς 
τοιούτοις. GAN οὐδὲν αὐτῶν χρὴ φροντίζειν, ἀλλ᾽ 
ὁμόσε ἰέναι. 

ὃ. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ὦ φίλε Εὐθύφρον, ἀλλὰ τὸ 
μὲν καταγελασθῆναι ἴσως οὐδὲν πρᾶγμα. ᾿Αθη- 
ναίοις γάρ τοι, ὡς ἐμοὶ δοκεῖ, οὐ σφόδρα μέλει, ἄν 
τινα δεινὸν οἴωνται εἶναι, μὴ μέντοι διδασκαλικὸν 
τῆς αὑτοῦ σοφίας: ὃν δ᾽ ἂν καὶ ἄλλους οἴωνται 
ποιεῖν τοιούτους, θυμοῦνται, εἴτ᾽ οὖν φθόνῳ, ὡς 
σὺ λέγεις, εἴτε δι’ ἄλλο τι. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΤΦΡΩΝ. Τούτου οὖν πέρι ὅπως ποτὲ πρὸς 
ἐμὲ ἔχουσιν, οὐ πάνυ ἐπιθυμῶ πειραθῆναι. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἴσως γὰρ σὺ μὲν δοκεῖς σπάνιον 
σεαυτὸν παρέχειν καὶ διδάσκειν οὐκ ἐθέλειν τὴν 
σεαυτοῦ σοφίαν' ἐγὼ δὲ φοβοῦμαι, μὴ ὑπὸ φιλαν- 
θρωπίας δοκῶ αὐτοῖς ὅ τί περ ἔχω ἐκκεχυμένως 
παντὶ ἀνδρὶ λέγειν, οὐ μόνον ἄνευ μισθοῦ, ἀλλὰ 
καὶ προστιθεὶς ἃ ἂν ἡδέως, εἴ τίς μου ἐθέλοι ἀκούειν. 
εἰ μὲν οὗν, ὃ νῦν δὴ ἔλεγον, μέχλοιέν pov κατα- 
γελᾶν, ὥσπερ σὺ φὴς σαυτοῦ, οὐδὲν ἂν εἴη ἀηδὲς 
παίξοντας καὶ γελῶντας ἐν τῷ δικαστηρίῳ διαγα- 
γεῖν, εἰ δὲ σπουδάσονται, τοῦτ᾽ ἤδη ὅπῃ ἀποβήσε- 
ται ἄδηλον πλὴν ὑμῖν τοῖς μάντεσιν. 


TO 


EUTHYPHRO 


you say the divine monitor keeps coming to you. 
So he has brought the indictment against you for 
making innovations in religion, and he is going into 
court to slander you, knowing that slanders on such 
subjects are readily accepted by the people. Why, 
they even laugh at me and say I am crazy when I 
say anything in the assembly about divine things 
and foretell the future to them. And yet there is 
not one of the things I have foretold that is not 
true; but they are jealous of all such men as you 
and I are. However, we must not be disturbed, but 
must come to close quarters with them. 

socnaTes. My dear Euthyphro, their ridicule is 
perhaps of no consequence. For the Athenians, I 
fancy, are not much concerned, if they think a man 
is clever, provided he does not impart his clever 
notions to others; but when they think he makes 
others to be like himself, they are angry with him, 
either through jealousy, as you say, or for some other 
reason. 

EuTHYPHRO. I don’t much desire to test their 
sentiments toward me in this matter. 

socraTes. No, for perhaps they think that you 
are reserved and unwilling to impart your wisdom. 
But I fear that because of my love of men they 
think that I not only pour myself out copiously to 
anyone and everyone without payment, but that I 
would even pay something myself, if anyone would 
listen tome. Now if, as I was saying just now, they 
were to laugh at me, as you say they do at you, it 
would not be at all unpleasant to pass the time in 
the court with jests and laughter; but if they are 
in earnest, then only soothsayers like you can tell 
how this will end. 


Il 


PLATO 


Ererepan. ᾿Αλλ᾽ ἴσως οὐδὲν ἔσται, ὦ Σώκρα- 
τες, πρᾶγμα, ἀλλὰ σύ τε κατὰ νοῦν ἀγωνιεῖ τὴν 
δίκην, οἶμαι δὲ καὶ ἐμὲ τὴν ἐμήν. 

4, ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. στιν δὲ δή σοι, ὦ Εὐθύφρον, 
τίς ἡ δίκη; φεύγεις αὐτὴν ἢ διώκεις; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Διώκω. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τίνα; 

Εὐθύφρων. Ὃν διώκων αὖ δοκῶ μαίνεσθαι. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί δέ; πετόμενόν τινα διώκεις; 

ΕΥΘΥΦρων. Πολλοῦ γε δεῖ πέτεσθαι, ὅς γε 
τυγχάνει ὧν εὖ μάλα πρεσβύτης. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τίς οὗτος; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. ὋὉ ἐμὸς πατήρ. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ὋὉ σός, ὦ βέλτιστε; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. Ἴ|ἄνν μὲν οὖν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. στιν δὲ τί τὸ ἔγκλημα καὶ τίνος ἡ 
δίκη; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Φόνου, ὦ Σώκρατες. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ Ἡράκλεις! ἢ που, ὦ Εὐθύφρον, 
ἀγνοεῖται ὑπὸ τῶν πολλῶν, ὅπῃ ποτὲ ὀρθῶς ἐ ἔχει." 
οὐ γὰρ οἶμαί γε τοῦ ἐπιτυχόντος ὀρθῶς αὐτὸ 
πρᾶξαι, ἀλλὰ πόρρω που ἤδη σοφίας ἐλαύνοντος. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. Πόρρω μέντοι νὴ Δία, ὦ Σώκρατες. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Εστίν δὲ δὴ τῶν οἰκείων τις ὁ 
τεθνεὼς ὑπὸ τοῦ σοῦ πατρός; ἢ δῆλα δή: οὐ γὰρ 
ἄν πού γε ὑπὲρ ἀλλοτρίου ἐπεξήεισθα φόνου 
αὐτῷ. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Γελοῖον, ὦ Σώκρατες, ὅτε οἴει τι 
διαφέρειν, εἴτε ἀλλότριος εἴτε οἰκεῖος ὁ τεθνεώς, 


" Schanz, following Madvig, marks a lacuna here. For the 
meaning of the missing word or words ho refers to 9 4 and 
15D. 


12 


EUTHYPHRO 


EUTHYPHRO. Well, Socrates, perhaps it won't 
amount to much, and you will bring your case toa 
satisfactory ending, as I think I shall mine. 

socrates. What is your case, Euthyphro? Are 
you defending or prosecuting ? 

EUTHYPHRO. Prosecuting. 

socRATES. Whom? 

EUTHYPHRO. Such a man that they think I am 
insane because 1 am prosecuting! him. 

socrates. Why? Are you prosecuting one who 
has wings to fly away with? 

EuTHYPHRO, No flying for him at his ripe old age. 

socraTes. Who is he? 

EUTHYPHRO, My father. 

socraTes. Your father, my dear man? 

EUTHYPHRO. Certainly. 

socraTEs. But what is the charge, and what is 
the suit about? 

EUTHYPHRO. Murder, Socrates. 

socraTes. Heracles! Surely, Euthyphro, most 
people do not know where the right lies; for | 
fancy it is not everyone who can rightly do what 
you are doing, but only one who is already very far 
advanced in wisdom. 

EuTHYPHRO. Very far, indeed, Socrates, by Zeus. 

socraTes. Is the one who was killed by your 
father a relative? But of course he was; for you 
would not bring a charge of murder against him on 
a stranger's account. 

EUTHYPHRO. It is ridiculous, Socrates, that you 
think it matters whether the man who was killed 

1 The Greek word has much the same meaning as the Latin 
prosequor, from which the English ‘ prosecute’ is derived, 
‘follow,’ ‘pursue,’ and is at the same time the technical 
term for ‘ prosecute.’ 


= 


PLATO 


ἀλλ᾽ ov τοῦτο μόνον δεῖν φυλάττειν, εἴτε ἐν δίκῃ 
ἔκτεινεν ὁ κτείνας εἴτε μή, καὶ εἰ μὲν ἐν δίκῃ, ἐᾶν, 
εἰ δὲ μή, ἐπεξιέναι, ἐάν περ ὁ κτείνας συνέστιός σοι 
καὶ ὁμοτράπεζος ἢ. ἴσον γὰρ τὸ μίασμα γίγνεται, 
ἐὰν ξυνῇς τῷ τοιούτῳ ξυνειδὼς καὶ μὴ ἀφοσιοῖς 
σεαυτόν τε καὶ ἐκεῖνον τῇ δίκῃ ἐπεξιών, ἐπεὶ ὅ γε 
ἀποθανὼν πελάτης τις ἣν ἐμός, καὶ ὡς ἐγεωργοῦ- 
μεν ἐν τῇ Νάξῳ, ἐθήτευεν ἐκεῖ παρ᾽ ἡμῖν. παρ- 
οινήσας οὗν καὶ ὀργισθεὶς τῶν οἰκετῶν τινι τῶν 
ἡμετέρων ἀποσφάττει αὐτόν" ὁ οὖν πατὴρ συνδή- 
σᾶς τοὺς πόδας καὶ τὰς χεῖρας αὐτοῦ, καταβαλὼν 
εἰς τάφρον τινά, πέμπει δεῦρο ἄνδρα πευσόμενον 
τοῦ ἐξηγητοῦ, ὅ τι χρείη ποιεῖν. ἐν δὲ τούτῳ τῷ 
χρόνῳ τοῦ δεδεμένον ὠλιγώρει τε καὶ ἠμέλει ὡς 
ἀνδροφόνου καὶ οὐδὲν ὃν πρᾶγμα, εἰ καὶ ἀποθάνοι" 
ὅπερ οὖν καὶ ἔπαθεν. ὑπὸ γὰρ λιμοῦ καὶ ῥίγους 
καὶ τῶν δεσμῶν ἀποθνήσκει πρὶν τὸν ἄγγελον 
παρὰ τοῦ ἐξηγητοῦ ἀφικέσθαι. ταῦτα δὴ οὗν 
καὶ ἀγανακτεῖ ὅ τε πατὴρ καὶ οἱ ἄλλοι οἰκεῖοι, 
ὅτι ἐγὼ ὑπὲρ τοῦ ἀνδροφόνου τῷ πατρὶ φόνον 
ἐπεξέρχομαι, οὔτε ἀποκτείναντι, ὥς φασιν ἐκεῖνοι, 
οὔτ᾽ εἰ ὅ τι μάλιστα ἀπέκτεινεν, ἀνδροφόνου γε 
ὄντος τοῦ ἀποθανόντος, οὐ δεῖν φροντίζειν ὑπὲρ 
τοῦ τοιούτου" ἀνόσιον γὰρ εἶναι τὸ υἱὸν πατρὶ 
φόνου ἐπεξιέναι: κακῶς εἰδότες, ὦ Σώκρατες, 
τὸ θεῖον ὡς ἔχει τοῦ ὁσίου τε πέρι καὶ τοῦ 
ἀνοσίου. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Σὺ δὲ δὴ πρὸς Διός, ὦ [υὐθύφρον, 
οὑτωσὶ ἀκριβῶς οἴει ἐπίστασθαι περὶ τῶν θείων, 


id 


EUTHYPHRO 


was a stranger or a relative, and do not see that 
the only thing to consider is whether the action of 
the slayer was justified or not, and that if it was 
justified one ought to let him alone, and if not, 
one ought to proceed against him, even if he share 
one’s hearth and eat at one’s table. For the pollu- 
tion is the same if you associate knowingly with 
such a man and do not purify yourself and him 
by proceeding against him. In this case, the man 
who was killed was a hired workman of mine, and 
when we were farming at Naxos, he was working 
there on our land. Now he got drunk, got angry 
with one of our house slaves, and butchered him. 
So my father bound him hand and foot, threw him 
into a ditch, and sent a man here to Athens to ask 
the religious adviser what he ought to do. In the 
meantime he paid no attention to the man as he 
lay there bound, and neglected him, thinking that 
he was a murderer and it did not matter if he were 
to die. And that is just what happened to him. 
For he died of hunger and cold and his bonds before 
the messenger came back from the adviser. Now 
my father and the rest of my relatives are angry 
with me, because for the sake of this murderer I am 
prosecuting my father for murder. [or they say he 
did not kill him, and if he had killed him never so 
much, yet since the dead man was a murderer, I 
ought not to trouble myself about such a fellow, 
because it is unholy for a son to prosecute his father 
for murder. Which shows how little they know 
what the divine law is in regard to holiness and 
unholiness. 

socraTEs. But, in the name of Zeus, Euthyphro, 
do you think your knowledge about divine laws and 


15 


PLATO 


ὅπῃ ἔχει, καὶ τῶν ὁσίων τε καὶ ἀνοσίων, ὥστε 
τούτων οὕτω πραχθέντων, ὡς σὺ λέγεις, οὐ φοβεῖ 
δικαζόμενος τῷ πατρί, ὅπως μὴ αὖ σὺ ἀνόσιον 
πρᾶγμα τυγχάνῃς πράττων; 

ΕΥΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Οὐδὲν γὰρ ἄν μου ὄφελος εἴη, ὦ 
Σώκρατες, οὐδέ τῳ ἂν διαφέροι Εὐφύφρων τῶν 
πολλῶν ἀνθρώπων, εἰ μὴ τὰ τοιαῦτα πάντα 
ἀκριβῶς εἰδείην. 

ὅ. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ap’ οὖν μοι, ὦ θαυμάσιε Εὐ- 
θύφρυν, κράτιστόν ἐστι μαθητῇ ow γενέσθαι καὶ 
πρὸ vis γραφῆς τῆς πρὸς Μέλητον αὐτὰ ταῦτα 
προκαλεῖσθαι αὐτὸν λέγοντα, ὅ ὅτι ἔγωγε καὶ ἐν τῷ 
ἔμπροσθεν χρόνῳ τὰ θεῖα περὶ πολλοῦ ἐποιούμην 
εἰδέναι, καὶ νῦν ἐπειδή με ἐκεῖνος αὐτοσχεδιάξοντά 
φησι καὶ καινοτομοῦντα περὶ τῶν θείων ἐξαμαρ- 
τάνειν, μαθητὴς δὴ γέγονα σός" καὶ εἰ μέν, ὦ 
Μέλητε, φαίην. ἄν, Εὐθύφρονα ὁμολογεῖς σοφὸν 
εἶναι τὰ τοιαῦτα, καὶ ὁ ρθῶς "νομίζειν ἐμὲ ἡγοῦ 
καὶ μὴ δικάξου' εἰ δὲ μή, ἐκείνῳ τῷ διδασκάλῳ 
λάχε δίκην πρότερον ἢ ἐμοί, ὡς τοὺς ᾿ πρεσβυτέρους 
διαφθείροντι, ἐμέ τε καὶ τὸν αὑτοῦ πατέρα, ἐμὲ 
μὲν διδάσκοντι, ἐκεῖνον δὲ νουθετοῦντί τε κα 
κολάξοντι' καὶ ἂν μή μοι πείθηται μηδ᾽ ἀφίῃ τῆς 
δίκης ἢ ἢ ἀντ᾽ ἐμοῦ γράφηται σέ, αὐτὰ ταῦτα λέγειν 
ἐν τῷ δικαστηρίῳ, ἃ προυκαλούμην αὐτόν. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Ναὶ μὰ Δία, ὦ Σώκρατες, εἰ ἄρα με 
ἐπιχειρήσειε γράφεσθαι, εὕροιμ' ἄν, ὡς οἶμαι, 
ὅπῃ σαθρός ἐστιν, καὶ πολὺ ἂν ἡμῖν πρότερον 
περὶ ἐκείνου λόγος ἐγένετο ἐν τῷ δικαστηρίῳ ἢ 
περὶ ἐμοῦ. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Καὶ ἐγώ τοι, ὦ φίλε ἑταῖρε, ταῦτα 
γιγνώσκων μαθητὴς ἐπιθυμῶ γενέσθαι σός, εἰδώς, 


16 


EUTHYPHRO 


holiness and unholiness is so exact that, when the 
facts are as you say, you are not afraid of doing 
something unholy yourself in prosecuting your father 
for murder ὃ 

EUTHYPHRO. I should be of no use, Socrates, and 
Euthyphro would be in no way different from other 
men, if I did not have exact knowledge about all 
such things. 

socraTes. Then the best thing for me, my 
admirable Euthyphro, is to become your pupil and, 
before the suit with Meletus comes on, to challenge 
him and say that I always thought it very important 
before to know about divine matters and that now, 
since he says I am doing wrong by acting carelessly 
and making innovations in matters of religion, I 
have become your pupil. And “ Meletus,’’ I should 
say, “if you acknowledge that Euthyphro is wise in 
such matters, then believe that I also hold correct 
opinions, and do not bring me to trial; and if you 
do not acknowledge that, then bring a suit against 
him, my teacher, rather than against me, and charge 
him with corrupting the old, namely, his father and 
me, which he does by teaching me and by correcting 
and punishing his father.” And if he does not do 
as I ask and does not release me from the indictment 
or bring it against you in my stead, I could say in 
the court the same things I said in my challenge to 
him, could I not? 

EUTHYPHRO. By Zeus, Socrates, if he should 
undertake to indict me, I fancy I should find his 
weak spot, and it would be much more a question 
about him in court than about me. 

socraTes. And I, my dear friend, perceiving this, 
wish to become your pupil; for I know that neither 


17 


PLATO 


ὅτι καὶ ἄλλος πού τις καὶ ὁ Μέλητος οὗτος σὲ μὲ. 

οὐδὲ δοκεῖ ὁρᾶν, ἐμὲ δὲ οὕτως ὀξέως καὶ ῥᾳδίω. 
κατεῖδεν, ὥστε ἀσεβείας ἐγράψατο. νῦν οὖν πρὸς 
Διὸς λέγε μοι, ὃ νῦν δὴ σαφῶς εἰδέναι διισχυρίζου" 
ποῖόν τι τὸ εὐσεβὲς φὴς εἶναι καὶ τὸ ἀσεβὲς καὶ 
περὶ φόνου καὶ περὶ τῶν ἄλλων; ἢ οὐ ταὐτόν 
ἐστιν ἐν πάσῃ πράξει τὸ ὅσιον αὐτὸ αὑτῷ, καὶ 
τὸ ἀνόσιον αὖ τοῦ μὲν ὁσιόν παντὸς ἐναντίον, αὐτὸ 
δὲ αὑτῷ ὅμοιον καὶ ἔχον μίαν τινὰ ἰδέαν" πᾶν, ὅ 
τί περ ἂν μέλλῃ ἀνόσιον εἶναι; 

Ererepan. Πάντως δήπου, ὦ Σώκρατες. 

6. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Λέγε δή, τί φὴς εἶναι τὸ ὅσιον 
καὶ τὸ ἀνόσιον; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Λέγω τοίνυν, ὅτι τὸ μὲν ὅσιόν ἐστιν 
ὅπερ ἐγὼ νῦν ποιῶ, τῷ ἀδικοῦντι ἢ περὶ φόνους 
ἢ περὶ ἱερῶν κλοπὰς ἤ τι ἄλλο τῶν τοιούτων 
ἐξαμαρτάνοντι ἐπεξιέναι, ἐ ἐάν τε πατὴρ ὧν τυγχάνῃ 
ἐάν τε μήτηρ ἐάν τε ἄχλος ὁστισοῦν, τὸ δὲ μὴ 
ἐπεξιέναι ἀνόσιον" ἐπεί, ὦ Σώκρατες, θέασαι, ὡς 
μέγα σοι ἐρῶ τεκμήριον τοῦ νόμου ὅτι οὕτως «ἔχει, 
ὃ καὶ ἄλλοις ἤδη εἶπον, ὅτι ταῦτα ὀρθῶς ἂν εἴη 
οὕτω γιγνόμενα, μὴ ἐπιτρέπειν τῷ ἀσεβοῦντι μηδ᾽ 
ἂν ὁστισοῦν τυγχάνῃ ὦν" αὐτοὶ γὰρ οἱ ἄνθρωποι 
τυγχάνουσι νομίζοντες τὸν Δία τῶν θεῶν ἃ ἄριστον 
καὶ δικαιότατον, καὶ τοῦτον ὁμολογοῦσι τὸν αὑτοῦ 
πατέρα δῆσαι, ὅτι τοὺς υἱεῖς κατέπινεν οὐκ ἐν 
δίκῃ, κἀκεῖνόν ᾽ς αὖ τὸν αὑτοῦ πατέρα ἐκτεμεῖν 
δι᾽ ἕτερα τοιαῦτα: ἐμοὶ δὲ χαλεπαίνουσιν, ὅ ὅτι τῷ 
πατρὶ ἐπεξέρχομαι ἀδικοῦντι, καὶ οὕτως αὐτοὶ 


1 After ἰδέαν BD read κατὰ τὴν ἀνοσιότητα, which Schanz 
brackets. 


18 


EUTHYPHRO 


this fellow Meletus, nor anyone else, seems to notice 
you at all, but he has seen through me so sharply 
and so easily that he has indicted me for impiety. 
Now in the name of Zeus, tell me what you just now 
asserted that you knew so well. What do you say is 
the nature of piety and impiety, both in relation to 
murder and to other things? Is not holiness always 
the same with itself in every action, and, on the 
other hand, is not unholiness the opposite of all 
holiness, always the same with itself and whatever 
is to be unholy possessing some one characteristic 
quality ὃ 

EUTHYPHRO. Certainly, Socrates. 

socraTEs. Tell me then, what do you say holiness 
is, and what unholiness? 

EUTHYPHRO. Well then, I say that holiness is 
doing what I am doing now, prosecuting the wrong- 
doer who commits murder or steals from the temples 
or does any such thing, whether he be your father 
or your mother or anyone else, and not prosecuting 
him is unholy. And, Socrates, see what a sure proof 
I offer you,—a proof I have already given to others,— 
that this is established and right and that we ought 
not to let him who acts impiously go unpunished, no 
matter who he may be. Men believe that Zeus is the 
best and most just of the gods, and they acknow- 
ledge that he put his father in bonds because he 
wickedly devoured his children, and he in turn had 
mutilated his father for similar reasons; but they are 
incensed against me because I proceed against my 
father when he has done wrong, and so they are 


19 


PLATO 


αὑτοῖς τὰ ἐναντία λέγουσι περί τε τῶν θεῶν Kai 
περὶ ἐμοῦ. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ᾿Αρά γε, ὦ Εὐθύφρον, τοῦτ᾽ ἔστιν, 
οὗ ἕνεκα τὴν γραφὴν φεύγω, ὅτε τὰ τοιαῦτα 
ἐπειδάν τις περὶ τῶν θεῶν λέγῃ, δυσχερῶς πως 
ἀποδέχομαι; δι ἃ δή, ὡς ἔοικε, φήσει τίς με 
ἐξαμαρτάνειν. νῦν οὖν εἰ καὶ σοὶ ταῦτα ξυνδοκεῖ 
τῷ εὖ εἰδότι περὶ τῶν τοιούτων, ἀνάγκη δή, ὡς 
ἔοικε, καὶ ἡμῖν ξυγχωρεῖν. τί γὰρ καὶ φήσομεν, οἵ 
γε αὐτοὶ ὁμολογοῦμεν περὶ αὐτῶν μηδὲν εἰδέναι; 
ἀλλά μοι εἰπὲ πρὸς Φιλίου, σὺ ὡς ἀληθῶς ἡγεῖ 
ταῦτα οὕτως γεγονέναι; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Καὶ ἔτι γε τούτων θαυμασιώτερα, 
ὦ Σώκρατες, ἃ οἱ πολλοὶ οὐκ ἴσασιν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Καὶ πόλεμον ἄρα ἡγεῖ σὺ εἶναι τῷ 
ὄντι ἐν τοῖς θεοῖς πρὸς ἀλλήλους, καὶ ἔχθρας 
γε δεινὰς καὶ μάχας καὶ ἄλλα τοιαῦτα πολλά, 
οἷα λέγεταί τε ὑπὸ τῶν ποιητῶν, καὶ ὑπὸ τῶν 
ἀγαθῶν γραφέων τά τε ἄλλα ἱερὰ ἡμῖν κατα- 
πεποίκελται, καὶ δὴ καὶ τοῖς μεγάλοις Hava 
θηναίοις ὁ ὁ πέπλος μεστὸς τῶν τοιούτων ποικιλμά- 
των ἀνάγεται εἰς τὴν ἀκρόπολιν; ταῦτα ἀληθῆ 
φῶμεν εἶναι, ὦ Εὐθύφρον; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. Μὴ μόνον γε, ὧ Σώκρατες" arn 
ὅπερ ἄρτι εἶπον, καὶ ἄλλα σοι ἐγὼ πολλά, 
ἐάνπερ “βούλῃ, περὶ τῶν θείων διηγήσομαι, ἃ 
σὺ ἀκούων εὖ οἷδ ὅτι ἐκπλαγήσει. 

7, ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκ a ἂν θαυμάζοιμι. ἀλλὰ ταῦτα 
μέν μοι εἰς αὖθις ἐπὶ σχολῆς διηγήσει" νυνὶ δέ, 
ὅπερ “ἄρτι σε ἠρόμην, πειρῶ σαφέστερον εἰπεῖν. 
οὐ γάρ με, ὦ ἑταῖρε, τὸ πρότερον ἱκανῶς ἐδίδαξας 
ἐρωτήσαντα τὸ ὅσιον, ὅ τε ποτ᾽ εἴη, ἀλλά μοι 


20 


EUTHYPHRO 


inconsistent in what they say about the gods and 
about me. 

socraTes. Is not this, Euthyphro, the reason why 
I am being prosecuted, because when people tell 
such stories about the gods I find it hard to accept 
them? And therefore, probably, people will say I 
am wrong. Now if you, who know so much about 
such things, accept these tales, I suppose I too must 
give way. For what am I to say, who confess 
frankly that I know nothing about them? But tell 
me, in the name of Zeus, the god of friendship, do 
you really believe these things happened ? 

EUTHYPHRO. Yes, and still more wonderful things 
than these, Socrates, which most people do not 
know. 

socraTEs. And so you believe that there was 
really war between the gods, and fearful enmities 
and battles and other things of the sort, such as are 
told of by the poets and represented in varied designs 
by the great artists in our sacred places and especially 
on the robe which is carried up to the Acropolis at 
the great Panathenaea? for this is covered with such 
representations. Shall we agree that these things 
are true, Euthyphro? 

EUTHYPHRO. Not only these things, Socrates; but, 
as I said just now, I will, if you like, tell you many 
other ‘things about the gods, which I am sure will 
amaze you when you hear them. 

socraTEs. I dare say. But you can tell me 
those things at your leisure some other time. At 
present try to tell more clearly what I asked you 
just now. For, my friend, you did not give me 
sufficient information before, when 1 asked what 
holiness was, but you told me that this was holy 


21 


PLATO 


εἶπες, ὅτι τοῦτο τυγχάνει ὅσιον ὄν, ὃ σὺ νῦν 
ποιεῖς, φόνου ἐπεξιὼν τῷ πατρί. 

ererepan. Καὶ ἀληθῆ γε ἔλεγον, ὦ Σώκρατες. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἴσως. ἀλλὰ γάρ, ὦ Εἰὐθύφρον, 
καὶ ἄλλα πολλὰ φὴς εἶναι ὅσια. 

Εὐθύφρων. Καὶ γὰρ ἔστιν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Μέμνησαι οὖν, ὅτι οὐ τοῦτό σοι 
διεκελευόμην, ἕ ἕν τι ἢ δύο με διδάξαι τῶν πολλῶν 
ὁσίων, ἀλλ᾽ ἐκεῖνο αὐτὸ τὸ εἶδος, ᾧ πάντα τὰ 
ὅσια ὅσιά ἐστιν; ἔφησθα γάρ που μιᾷ ἰδέᾳ τά 
τε ἀνόσια ἀνόσια εἶναι καὶ τὰ ὅσια ὅσια: ἢ οὐ 
μνημονεύεις; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. ᾿μγωγε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ταύτην τοίνυν με αὐτὴν δίδαξον 
τὴν ἰδέαν, τίς ποτέ ἐστιν, ἵνα εἰς ἐκείνην ἀποβλέ- 
πων καὶ χρώμενος αὐτῇ “παραδείγματι, ὃ ὃ μὲν ἂν 
τοιοῦτον ἦ, ὧν ἂν ἢ σὺ ἢ ἄλλος τις πράττῃ, φῶ 
ὅσιον εἶναι, ὃ δ᾽ ἂν μὴ τοιοῦτον, μὴ Pa. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩ͂Ν. "AAX εἰ οὕτω βούλει, ὦ Σώκρατες, 
καὶ οὕτω σοι φράσω. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ᾿Αλλὰ μὴν βούλομαί γε. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩ͂Ν. "Bore τοίνυν τὸ μὲν τοῖς θεοῖς προσ- 
φιλὲς ὅσιον, τὸ δὲ μὴ προσφιλὲς ἀνόσιον. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Παγκάλως, @ Εὐθύφρον, καὶ ὡς 
ἐγὼ ἐζήτουν ἀποκρίνασθαί σε, οὕτω νῦν ἀπε- 
κρίνω. εἰ μέντοι ἀληθές, τοῦτο οὔπω οἶδα, ἀλλὰ 
σὺ δῆλον ὅτι ἐπεκδιδάξεις, ὡς ἔστιν ἀληθῆ ἃ 
λέγεις. 

Ererepan. I[Tavu μὲν οὖν. 

8. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Φέρε δή, ἐπισκεψώμεθα, τί λέ- 
γομεν. τὸ μὲν θεοφιλές τε καὶ ὁ θεοφιλὴς ἄν- 
θρωπος ὅσιος, τὸ δὲ θεομισὲς καὶ ὁ θεομισὴς 


22 


ἘΠΤΗΥΡΗΒΟ 


which you are now doing, prosecuting your father 
for murder. 

EUTHYPHRO. Well, what I said was true, Socrates. 

socraTes. Perhaps. But, Euthyphro, you say that 
many other things are holy, do you not? 

EUTHYPHRO. Why, so they are. 

socrates. Now call to mind that this is not what 
I asked you, to tell me one or two of the many 
holy acts, but to tell the essential aspect, by which 
all holy acts are holy ; for you said that all unholy 
acts were unholy and all holy ones holy by one 
aspect. Or don’t you remember? 

EUTHYPHRO. I remember. 

socraTEs. Tell me then what this aspect is, that 1 
may keep my eye fixed upon it and employ it as a 
model and, if anything you or anyone else does agrees 
with it, may say that the act is holy, and if not, that 
it is unholy. 

EuTHYPHRO. If you wish me to explain in that 
way, I will do so. 

socraTes. I do wish it. 

EUTHYPHRO. Well then, what is dear to the gods 
is holy, and what is not dear to them is unholy. 

socraTes. Excellent, Euthyphro; now you have 
answered as I asked you to answer. However, 
whether it is true, lam not yet sure; but you will, 
of course, show that what you say is true. 

EUTHYPHRO. Certainly. 

socraTes. Come then, let us examine our words. 
The thing and the person that are dear to the gods 
are holy, and the thing and the person that are 
hateful to the gods are unholy; and the two are 
not the same, but the holy and the unholy are the 


23 


PLATO 


ἀνοσιος: ov ταὐτὸν δ᾽ ἐστίν, ἀλλὰ τὸ ἐναντιώ- 
τατον τὸ ὅσιον τῷ ἀνοσίῳ:' οὐχ οὕτως; 

ΕΥΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Οὕτω μὲν οὖν. 

\ a , 3. A 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Καὶ εὖ γε φαίνεται εἰρῆσθαι; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Δοκῶ, ὦ Σώκρατες. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν καὶ ὅτι στασιάζουσιν οἱ 
θεοί, ὦ Εὐθύφρον, καὶ διαφέρονται ἀλλήλοις καὶ 
ἔχθρα ἐστὶν ἐν αὐτοῖς πρὸς ἀλλήλους, καὶ τοῦτο 
εἴρηται; 

Μ 4 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Εἴρηται yap. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. “EyOpav δὲ καὶ ὀργάς, ὦ ἄριστε, ἡ 
περὶ τίνων διαφορὰ ποιεῖ; ᾧδε δὲ σκοπῶμεν. ap 
ἂν εἰ διαφεροίμεθα ἐγώ τε καὶ σὺ περὶ ἀριθμοῦ, 
ὁπότερα πλείω, ἡ περὶ τούτων διαφορὰ ἐχθροὺς 
ἂν ἡμᾶς ποιοῖ καὶ ὀργίζεσθαι ἀλλήλοις, ἢ ἐπὶ 

f a 
λογισμὸν ἐλθόντες περί γε τῶν τοιούτων ταχὺ ἂν 
ἀπαλλαγεῖμεν; 

ΕΥθύφρων. Πάνυ γε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν καὶ περὶ τοῦ μείζονος καὶ 

, 3 / SN \ / > 
ἐλάττονος εἰ διαφεροίμεθα, ἐπὶ τὸ μέτρον ἐλ- 
θόντες ταχὺ παυσαίμεθ᾽ ἂν τῆς διαφορᾶς; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. Ἔστι ταῦτα. 

\ 2 / x e ΄, > U 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Kal ἐπί ye τὸ ἱστάναι ἔλθοντες, 
ὡς ἐγῴμαι, περὶ τοῦ βαρυτέρου τε καὶ κουφοτέρου 
διακριθεῖμεν ἄν; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. Πῶς γὰρ οὔ; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Περὶ τίνος δὲ δὴ διενεχθέντες καὶ 
ἐπὶ τίνα κρίσιν οὐ δυνάμενοι ἀφικέσθαι ἐχθροί γε 
bal ᾽ / 3 2 ’ » > , 
ἂν ἀλλήλοις εἶμεν καὶ ὀργιζοίμεθα; ἴσως οὐ προ- 
χειρόν σοί ἐστιν. GAN ἐμοῦ λέγοντος σκόπει, εἰ 


1 The manuscripts read δοκῶ, ὦ Σώκρατες: εἴρηται γάρ. 
Schanz brackets this and the preceding line. I follow 


24 


EUTHYPHRO 


exact opposites of each other. Is not this what we 
have said ? 

EUTHYPHRO. Yes, just this. 

socraTEs. And it seems to be correct? 

EUTHYPHRO, I think so, Socrates. 

socraTes. Well then, have we said this also, that 
the gods, Euthyphro, quarrel and disagree with each 
other, and that there is enmity between them? 

EUTHYPHRO. Yes, we have said that. 

socraTes. But what things is the disagreement 
about, which causes enmity and anger? Let us look 
at it in this way. If you and I were to disagree 
about number, for instance, which of two numbers 
were the greater, would the disagreement about 
these matters make us enemies and make us angry 
with each other, or should we not quickly settle it by 
resorting to arithmetic? 

EUTHYPHRO. Of course we should. 

socraTes. Then, too, if we were to disagree about 
the relative size of things, we should quickly put an 
end to the disagreement by measuring ? 

EUTHYPHRO. Yes. 

socraTEs, And we should, I suppose, come to 
terms about relative weights by weighing ? 

EUTHYPHRO. Of course. 

socraTEs. But about what would a disagreement 
be, which we could not settle and which would cause 
us to be enemies and be angry with each other? 
Perhaps you cannot give an answer offhand ; but let 
Hermann in omitting εἴρηται “γάρ, which may have been once 


a marginal note or may have been copied by mistake from 
the next words of Euthyphro. 


25 


PLATO 


τάδε ἐστὶ τό τε δίκαιον καὶ τὸ ἄδικον Kal καλὸν 
καὶ αἰσχρὸν καὶ ἀγαθὸν καὶ κακόν. ἄρα οὐ ταῦτά 
ἐστιν, ὧν διενεχθέντες καὶ οὐ δυνάμενοι ἐπὶ ἱκανὴν 
κρίσιν αὐτῶν ἐλθεῖν ἐχθροὶ ἀλλήλοις γιγνόμεθα, 
cd , Ν ᾽ \ \ δὴ \ e Μ 
ὅταν γιγνώμεθα, καὶ ἐγὼ καὶ σὺ καὶ οἱ ἄλλοι 
ἄνθροποι πάντες; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. ᾿Αλλ᾽ ἔστιν αὕτη ἡ διαφορά, ὦ Σώ- 
κρατες, καὶ περὶ τούτων. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί δέ; οἱ θεοί, ὦ Εὐθύφρον, οὐκ 
εἴπερ τι διαφέρονται, διὰ ταῦτα διαφέροιντ᾽ ἄν; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Πολλὴ. ἀνάγκη. 

9 “ 3 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Kal τῶν θεῶν ἄρα, ὦ γενναῖε Εὐ- 
θύφρον, ἄλλοι ἄλλα δίκαια καὶ ἄδικα" ἡγοῦνται 
κατὰ τὸν σὸν λόγον, καὶ καλὰ καὶ αἰσχρὰ καὶ 
ἀγαθὰ καὶ κακά’ οὐ γὰρ ἄν που ἐστασίαζον 
᾽ ΄ » \ \ , / = ’ 
ἀλλήλοις, εἰ μὴ περὶ τούτων διεφέροντο" ἦ γάρ; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. Ορθῶς λέγεις. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν ἅπερ καλὰ ἡγοῦνται ἕκα- 
στοι καὶ ἀγαθὰ καὶ δίκαια, ταῦτα καὶ φιλοῦσιν, 
τὰ δὲ ἐναντία τούτων μισοῦσιν; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. [Πάνυ γε. 

i 3 \ / e \ / © \ 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ταὐτὰ δέ ye, ὡς ov ys, οἱ μὲν 
δίκαια ἡγοῦνται, οἱ δὲ ἄδικα" περὶ ἃ καὶ 
ἀμφισβητοῦντες στασιάζουσί τε καὶ πολεμοῦσιν 
ἀλλήλοις. ἄρα οὐχ οὕτω; 

ΕΥθύφρων. Οὕτω. 

50909 e Μ Ὁ cs Ἁ 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Taut’ ἄρα, ὡς ἔοικεν, μισεῖται ὕπο 
τῶν θεῶν καὶ φιλεῖται, καὶ θεομισῆ τε καὶ 
θεοφιλῆ ταὔτ᾽ ἂν εἴη. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. “Korxer. 

1 καὶ ἄδικα inserted by Hirchig, followed by Schanz, 

δ g Υ 


26 


EUTHYPHRO 


me suggest it. Is it not about riglt and wrong, and 
noble and disgraceful, and good and bad? Are not 
these the questions about which you and I and other 
people become enemies, when we do become enemies, 
because we differ about them and cannot reach any 
satisfactory agreement ? 

EUTHYPHRO. Yes, Socrates, these are the questions 
about which we should become enemies. 

socrates. And how about the gods, Euthyphro? 
If they disagree, would they not disagree about these 
questions ? 

EUTHYPHRO. Necessarily. 

socraTEs. Then, my noble Euthyphro, according 
to what you say, some of the gods too think some 
things are right or wrong and noble or disgraceful, 
and good or bad, and others disagree ; for they would 
not quarrel with each other if they did not disagree 
about these matters. Is that the case? 

EUTHYPHRO. You are right. 

socraTes. Then the gods in each group love the 
things which they consider good and right and hate 
the opposites of these things? 

EUTHYPHRO, Certainly. 

socRATEs, But you say that the same things are 
considered right by some of them and wrong by 
others ; and itis because they disagree about these 
things that they quarrel and wage war with each 
other. Is not this what you said? 

EUTHYPHRO. = It is. 

socraTes. ‘hen, as it seems, the same things are 
hated and loved by the gods, and the same things 
would be dear and hateful to the gods. 

EUTHYPHRO. So it seems. 


27 


PLATO 


ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Kai ὅσια dpa καὶ ἀνόσια τὰ αὐτὰ 
ἂν εἴη, ὦ Ἐὐθύφρον, τούτῳ τῷ λόγῳ. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. Κινδυνεύει. 

9. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκ ἄρα ὃ ἠρόμην ἀπεκρίνω, ὦ 
θαυμάσιε. οὐ γὰρ τοῦτό γε ἠρώτων, 01 τυγχάνει 
ταὐτὸν ὃν ὅσιόν τε καὶ ἀνόσιον' ὃ δ᾽ ἂν θεοφιλὲς 
ἢ, καὶ θεομισές ἐστιν, ὡς ἔοικεν. ὥστε, ὦ 
Εὐθύφρον, ὃ σὺ νῦν ποιεῖς τὸν πατέρα κολάζων, 
οὐδὲν θαυμαστόν, εἰ τοῦτο δρῶν τῷ μὲν Διὶ 
προσφιλὲς ποιεῖς, τῷ δὲ Κρόνῳ καὶ τῷ Οὐρανῷ 
ἐχθρόν, καὶ τῷ μὲν Ἡφαίστῳ φίλον, τῇ δὲ" Ἥρᾳ 
ἐχθρόν" καὶ εἴ τις ἄχλος τῶν θεῶν ἕτερος ἑτέρῳ 
διαφέρεται περὶ αὐτοῦ, καὶ ἐκείνοις κατὰ τὰ 
αὐτά. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. "AAW οἶμαι, ὧ Σώκρατες, περί γε 
τούτου τῶν θεῶν οὐδένα ἕτερον ἑτέρῳ διαφέρεσθαι, 
ὡς οὐ δεῖ δίκην διδόναι ἐκεῖνον, ὃς ἂν ἀδίκως 
τινὰ ἀποκτείνῃ. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί δέ; ἀνθρώπων, ὦ Εὐθύφρον, ἤδη 
τινὸς ἤκουσας ἀμφισβητοῦντος, ὡς τὸν ἀδίκως 
ἀποκτείναντα ἢ ἄλλο ἀδίκως ποιοῦντα ὁτιοῦν οὐ 
δεῖ δίκην διδόναι; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Οὐδὲν μὲν οὖν παύονται ταῦτα 
ἀμφισβητοῦντες καὶ ἄλλοθι καὶ ἐν τοῖς δικαστη- 
ρίοις. ἀδικοῦντες γὰρ πάμπολλα, πάντα ποιοῦσι 
καὶ λέγουσι φεύγοντες τὴν δίκην. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἢ καὶ ὁμολογοῦσιν, @ Εὐθύφρον, 
ἀδικεῖν, καὶ ὁμολογοῦντες ὅμως οὐ δεῖν φασι 
σφᾶς διδόναι δίκην; 

EYETePaN. Οὐδαμῶς τοῦτό γε. 


1 Schanz reads ¢ for ὃ. 


28 


EUTHYPHRO 


socraTes. And then the same things would be 
both holy and unholy, Euthyphro, according to this 
statement, 

EUTHYPHRO. I suppose so. 

socrates. ‘Then you did not answer my question, 
my friend. For I did not ask you what is at once 
holy and unholy; but, judging from your reply, 
what is dear to the gods is also hateful to the 
gods. And so, Euthyphro, it would not be 
surprising if, in punishing your father as you are 
doing, you were performing an act that is pleasing 
to Zeus, but hateful to Cronus and Uranus, and 
pleasing to Hephaestus, but hateful to Hera, and so 
forth in respect to the other gods, if any disagree 
with any other about it. 

EUTHYPHRO. But I think, Socrates, that none of 
the gods disagrees with any other about this, or holds 
that he who kills anyone wrongfully ought not to pay 
the penalty. 

socraTes. Well, Euthyphro, to return to men, did 
you ever hear anybody arguing that he who had 
killed anyone wrongfully, or had done anything else 
whatever wrongfully, ought not to pay the penalty? 

EUTHYPHRO. Why, they are always arguing these 
points, especially in the law courts. For they do 
very many wrong things; and then there is nothing 
they will not do or say, in defending themselves, to 
avoid the penalty. 

socraTEs. Yes, but do they acknowledge, Euthy- 
phro, that they have done wrong and, although they 
acknowledge it, nevertheless say that they ought not 
to pay the penalty? 

EUTHYPHRO. Oh, no, they don’t do that. 


29 


PLATO 


ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκ apa πᾶν ye ποιοῦσι Kal λέγου- 
σι. τοῦτο γάρ, οἶμαι, οὐ τολμῶσι λέγειν οὐδ᾽ 
ἀμφισβητεῖν, ὡς οὐχί, εἴπερ ἀδικοῦσί γε, δοτέον 
δίκην: ἀλλ᾽, οἶμαι, οὔ φασιν ἀδικεῖν. ἢ γάρ; 

Ererepan. ᾿Αληθῆ λέγεις. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκ ἄρα ἐκεῖνό γε ἀμφισβητοῦσιν, 
ὡς οὐ τὸν ἀδικοῦντα δεῖ διδόναι δίκην' ἀλλ᾽ 
ἐκεῖνο ἴσως ἀμφισβητοῦσι, τὸ τίς ἐστιν ὁ ἀδικῶν 
καὶ τί δρῶν καὶ πότε. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. ᾿Αληθῇ λέγεις. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν αὐτά γε ταῦτα καὶ οἱ θεοὶ 
πεπόνθασιν, εἴπερ στασιάζουσι περὶ τῶν δικαίων 
καὶ ἀδίκων, ὡς ὁ σὸς λόγος, καὶ οἱ μέν φασιν 
ἀλλήλους ἀδικεῖν, οἱ δὲ οὔ φασιν; ἐπεὶ ἐκεῖνό 
γε δήπου, ὦ θαυμάσιε, οὐδεὶς οὔτε θεῶν οὔτε 
ἀνθρώπων τολμᾷ λέγειν, ὡς οὐ τῷ γε ἀδικοῦντι 
δοτέον δίκην. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. Ναί, τοῦτο μὲν ἀληθὲς λέγεις, ὦ 
Σώκρατες, τὸ κεφάλαιον. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. "AAN ἕκαστόν γε οἶμαι, ὦ Εὐθύ- 
φρον, τῶν πραχθέντων ἀμφισβητοῦσιν οἱ ἀμφισ- 
βητοῦντες, καὶ ἄνθρωποι καὶ θεοί, εἴπερ ἀμφισ- 
βητοῦσιν θεοί" πράξεώς τινος πέρι διαφερόμενοι 
οἱ μὲν δικαίως φασὶν αὐτὴν πεπρᾶχθαι, οἱ δὲ 
ἀδίκως" ap οὐχ οὕτω; 

ErerePan. [Πάνυ γε. 

10. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἴθι νῦν, ὦ φίλε ἘΕὐθύφρον, 
δίδαξον καὶ ἐμέ, ἵνα σοφώτερος γένωμαι, τί 
σοι τεκμήριόν ἐστιν, ὡς “πάντες θεοὶ ἡγοῦνται 
ἐκεῖνον ἀδίκως τεθνάναι, ὃς ἂν θητεύων ἀνδρο- 


1 οὐκ ἄρα... ᾿Αληθῆ λέγεις bracketed by Schanz following 
Schenkl. 


30 


EUTHYPHRO 


socraTes. Then there is something they do not 
do and say. For they do not, I fancy, dare to say 
and argue that, if they have really done wrong, they 
ought not to pay the penalty ; but, I think, they say 
they have not done wrong; do they not? 

EUTHYPHRO. You are right. 

socraTes. Then they do not argue this point, 
that the wrongdoer must not pay the penalty; but 
perhaps they argue about this, who is a wrongdoer, 
and what he did, and when. 

EUTHYPHRO. That is true. 

socraTEs. Then is not the same thing true of the 
gods, if they quarrel about right and wrong, as you 
say, and some say others have done wrong, and some 
say they have not? For surely, my friend, no one, 
either of gods or men, has the face to say that 
he who does wrong ought not to pay the penalty. 

EUTHYPHRO. Yes, youare right about this, Socrates, 
in the main. 

socrates. But I think, Futhyphro, those who 
dispute, both men and gods, if the gods do dispute, 
dispute about each separate act. When they differ 
with one another about any act, some say it was right 
and others that it was wrong. Is it not so? 

EUTHYPHRO. Certainly. 

socraTes. Come now, my dear Euthyphro, inform 
me, that I may be made wiser, what proof you have 
that all the gods think that the man lost his life 
wrongfully, who, when he was a servant, committed 


31 


PLATO 


φόνος γενόμενος, EvvdeGels ὑπὸ τοῦ δεσπότου 
τοῦ ἀποθανόντος, φθάσῃ τελευτήσας διὰ τὰ 
δεσμά, πρὶν τὸν ξυνδήσαντα παρὰ τῶν ἐξηγητῶν 
περὶ αὐτοῦ πυθέσθαι, τί χρὴ ποιεῖν, καὶ ὑπὲρ 
τοῦ τοιούτου δὴ ὀρθῶς ἔ ἔχει ἐπεξιέναι καὶ ἐπι- 
σκήπτεσθαι φόνου τὸν υἱὸν τῷ πατρί: ἴθι, περὶ 
τούτων πειρῶ τί por σαφὲς ἐνδείξασθαι, ὡς 
παντὸς μᾶλλον πάντες θεοὶ ἡγοῦνται ὀρθῶς 
ἔχειν ταύτην τὴν πρᾶξιν. κἂν μοι ἱκανῶς ἐνδείξῃ, 
ἐγκωμιάζων σε ἐπὶ σοφίᾳ οὐδέποτε παύσομαι. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. ᾿Αλλ᾽ ἴσως οὐκ ὀλίγον ἔργον ἐστίν, 
ὦ Σώκρατες: ἐπεὶ πάνυ γε σαφῶς ἔχοιμι ἂν 
ἐπιδεῖξαί σοι. . 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Μανθάνω: ὅτι cot δοκῶ τῶν δι- 
καστῶν δυσμαθέστερος εἶναι. ἐπεὶ ἐκείνοις γε 
ἐνδείξει δῆλον ὅτι, ὡς ἀδικά τέ ἐστιν καὶ οἱ θεοὶ 
ἅπαντες τὰ τοιαῦτα μισοῦσιν. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. Πάνυ γε σαφῶς, ὦ Σώκρατες, ἐάν 
περ axovwal γέ μου λέγοντος. 

1]. soKpaTHs. “AAD ἀκούσονται, ἐάν περ εὖ 
δοκῇς λέγειν. τόδε δέ σου ἐνενόησα ἅμα λέγοντος, 
καὶ πρὸς ἐμαυτὸν σκοπῶ" εἰ ὅ τι μάλιστά με 
Εὐθύφρων διδάξειεν, ὡς οἱ θεοὶ ἅπαντες τὸν 
τοιοῦτον θάνατον ἡγοῦνται ἄδικον εἶναι, τί μᾶλλον 
ἐγὼ μεμάθηκα. map Εὐθύφρονος, τί ποτ᾿ ἐστὶν τὸ 
ὅσιόν τε καὶ τὸ ἀνόσιον; θεομισὲς μὲν γὰρ τοῦτο 
τὸ ἔργον, ὡς ἔοικεν, εἴη ἄν: ἀλλὰ γὰρ οὐ τούτῳ 
ἐφάνη ἄρτι ὡρισμένα τὸ ὅσιον καὶ μή" τὸ γὰρ 
θεομισὲς ὃν καὶ θεοφιλὲς ἐφάνη" ὥστε τούτου 
ἀφίημί σε, ὦ Εὐθύφρον' εἰ βούλει, πάντες αὐτὸ 
ἡγείσθων θεοὶ ἄδικον καὶ πάντες μισούντων. 
ἀλλ᾽ ἄρα τοῦτο νῦν ἐπανορθώμεθα ἐν τῷ λόγῳ, 


32 


EUTHYPHRO 


a murder, was bound by the master of the man he 
killed, and died as a result of his bonds before the 
master who had bound him found out from the 
advisers what he ought to do with him, and that it is 
right on account of such a man for a son to proceed 
against his father and accuse him of murder. Come, 
try to show me clearly about this, that the gods 
surely believe that this conduct is right ; and if you 
show it to my satisfaction, I will glorify your wisdom 
as long as I live. 

EUTHYPHRO. But perhaps this is no small task, 
Socrates ; though I could show you quite clearly. 

socraTes. I understand; it is because you think 
I am slower to understand than the judges; since it 
is plain that you will show them that such acts are 
wrong and that all the gods hate them. 

EUTHYPHRO. Quite clearly, Socrates; that is, if 
they listen to me. 

socrates. They will listen, if they find that you 
are a good speaker. But this occurred to me while 
you were talking, and I said to myself: “If Euthy- 
phro should prove to me no matter how clearly that 
all the gods think such a death is wrongful, what 
have I learned from Euthyphro about the question, 
what is holiness and what is unholiness? For this 
act would, as it seems, be hateful to the gods; but 
we saw just now that holiness and its opposite are 
not defined in this way; for we saw that what is 
hateful to the gods is also dear to them; and so I 
let you off any discussion of this point, Euthyphro. 
If you like, all the gods may think it wrong and may 
hate it. But shall we now emend our definition and 


33 


10 


PLATO 


« a A a 4 e \ a ΓΝ ὁ , ᾽ 

ως ὁ MEV ἂν TTAVTES οἱ θεοὶ μίισωσιν, QAVOOLOYV ἐστιν, 
a 

oO 


δ᾽ ἂν φιλῶσιν, ὅσιον: ὃ δ᾽ ἂν οἱ μὲν φιλῶσιν, 
οἱ δὲ μισῶσιν, οὐδέτερα ἢ ἀμφότερα; ἄρ᾽ οὕτω 
βούλει ἡμῖν ὡρίσθαι νῦν περὶ τοῦ ὁσίου καὶ τοῦ 
ἀνοσίου; 

Εὐθύφρων. Τί γὰρ κωλύει, ὦ Σώκρατες; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐδὲν ἐμέ γε, ὦ Εὐθύφρον, ἀλλὰ 
σὺ δὴ τὸ σὸν σκόπει, εἰ τοῦτο ὑποθέμενος οὕτω 
ῥᾷστά με διδάξεις ὃ ὑπέσχον. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. ᾿Αλλ᾽ ἔγωγε φαίην ἂν τοῦτο εἶναι 
τὸ ὅσιον, ὃ ἂν πάντες οἱ θεοὶ φιλῶσιν, καὶ τὸ 
ἐναντίον, ὃ ἂν πάντες θεοὶ μισῶσιν, ἀνόσιον. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν ἐπισκοπῶμεν αὖ τοῦτο, ὦ 
Εὐθύφρον, εἰ καλῶς λέγεται, ἢ ἐῶμεν καὶ οὕτω 
ἡμῶν τε αὐτῶν ἀποδεχώμεθα καὶ τῶν ἄλλων, ἐὰν 
μόνον φῇ τίς τι ἔχειν οὕτω, ξυγχωροῦντες ἔχειν; 
ἢ σκεπτέον, τί λέγει ὁ λέγων; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Σκεπτέον' οἶμαι μέντοι ἔγωγε τοῦτο 
νυνὶ καλῶς λέγεσθαι. 

12. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Tay’, ayabé, βέλτιον εἰσό- 
μεθα, ἐννόησον γὰρ τὸ τοιόνδε. apa τὸ ὅσιον, 
ὅτι ὅσιόν ἐστιν, φιλεῖται ὑπὸ τῶν θεῶν, ἢ ὅτι 
φιλεῖται, ὅσιόν ἐστιν; 

Εὐθύφρων. Οὐκ οἶδ᾽ ὅ τι λέγεις, @ Σώκρατες. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ᾿Αλλ᾽ ἐγὼ πειράσομαι σαφέστερον 
φράσαι. λέγομέν τ φερόμενον καὶ φέρον καὶ 
ἀγόμενον καὶ ἄγον καὶ ὁρώμενον καὶ ὁρῶν. καὶ 
πάντα τὰ τοιαῦτα μανθάνεις ὅτι ἕτερα ἀλλήλων 
ἐστὶ καὶ ἡ ἕτερα; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ, ᾿Εγωγέ μοι δοκῶ μανθάνειν. 


34 


EUTHYPHRO 


say that whatever all the gods hate is unholy and 
whatever they all love is holy, and what some love 
and others hate is neither or both? Do you wish 
this now to be our definition of holiness and unholi- 
ness? 

EUTHYPHRO. What is to hinder, Socrates? 

socraTes. Nothing, so far as 1 am concerned, 
Euthyphro, but consider your own position, whether 
by adopting this definition you will most easily 
teach me what you promised. 

EUTHYPHRO. Well, I should say that what all the 
gods love is holy and, on the other hand, what they 
all hate is unholy. 

socRATEs. Then shall we examine this again, 
Euthyphro, to see if it is correct, or shall we let it 
go and accept our own statement, and those of others, 
agreeing that it is so, if anyone merely says that it 
is? Or ought we to inquire into the correctness of 
the statement ? 

EuTHYPHRO. We ought to inquire. However, I 
think this is now correct. 

socraTes. We shall soon know more about this, 
my friend. Just consider this question:—Is that 
which is holy loved by the gods because it is holy, 
or is it holy because it is loved by the gods? 

euTHyPHRO. 1 don’t know what you mean, 
Socrates. 

socrates. Then I will try to speak more clearly. 
We speak of being carried and of carrying, of being 
led and of leading, of being seen and of seeing; and 
you understand—do you not?—that in all such 
expressions the two parts differ one from the other 
in meaning, and how they differ. 

xuTHYPHRO. I think I understand. 


35 


PLATO 


ΣΏΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν καὶ φιλούμενόν Ti ἐστιν καὶ 
τούτου ἕτερον τὸ φιλοῦν; 
ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. Πῶς γὰρ οὔ; 
, , , \ , 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Λέγε δή μοι, πότερον TO φερόμενον, 
, ’ὔ ΄ 5 “Aa 3... ἢ 
διότε φέρεται, φερόμενόν ἐστιν, ἢ δι’ ἄλλο τι; 
Εὐθύφρων. Οὔκ, ἀλλὰ διὰ τοῦτο. 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Καὶ τὸ ἀγόμενον δή, διότι ἄγεται, 
καὶ τὸ ὁρώμενον, διότι ὁρᾶται; 
ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Πάνυ γε. 
᾽ »Ἄ “ . , , / > 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκ ἄρα διότι ὁρώμενόν γέ ἐστιν, 
\ rm Cain ᾽ \ Ne 2 , ’ dan 
διὰ τοῦτο ὁρᾶται, ἀλλὰ τὸ ἐναντίον διότι ὁρᾶται, 
διὰ τοῦτο ὁρώμενον: οὐδὲ διότι ἀγόμενόν ἐστιν, 
\ a ” ἢ \ , » \ a 
διὰ τοῦτο ἄγεται, ἀλλὰ διότι ἄγεται, διὰ τοῦτο 
ἀγόμενον: οὐδὲ διότι φερόμενον, φέρεται, ἀλλὰ 
διότι φέρεται, φερόμενον. ἄρα κατάδηλον, ὦ 
Εὐθύφρον, ὃ βούλομαι λέγειν; βούλομαι δὲ τόδε, 
ὅτι, εἴ τι γίγνεται ἤ Te πάσχει, οὐχ ὅτι γιγνόμενόν 
5» “ 
ἐστι, γίγνεται, ἀλλ᾽ ὅτι γίγνεται, γιγνόμενόν 
43 ΣῸΣ ὦ , ᾽ ,ὔ , ᾽ > Ψ 
ἐστιν! οὐδ᾽ ὅτι πάσχον ἐστί, πάσχει, ἀλλ᾽ ὅτι 
πάσχει, πάσχον ἐστίν: ἢ οὐ ξυγχωρεῖς οὕτω; 
ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. “Eywre. 
> “ Ν Ν . Uy a U 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν καὶ τὸ φιλούμενον ἢ γιγνό- 
μενόν τί ἐστιν ἢ πάσχον τι VITO του; 
ΕΥ̓Θύφρων. [Πάνυ γε. 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Καὶ τοῦτο ἄρα οὕτως ἔχει, ὥσπερ 
\ , ? “ , , 2 an 
TA προτερα" οὐχ OTL φιλούμενον ἐστιν, φιλεῖται 
ὑπὸ ὧν φιλεῖται, ἀλλ᾽ ὅτι φιλεῖται, φιλούμενον; 
ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. ᾿Ανάγκη. 


46 


EUTHYPHRO 


socraTEs. ‘Then, too, we conceive of a thing being 
loved and of a thing loving, and the two are different ? 

EUTHYPHRO. Of course. 

socraTEs. Now tell me, is a thing which is 
carried a carried thing because one carries it, or 
for some other reason ἢ 

EUTHYPHRO. No, for that reason. 

socraTes. And a thing which is led is led because 
one leads it, and a thing which is seen is so because 
one sees it? 

EUTHYPHRO. Certainly. 

socraTes. Then one does not see it because 
it is a seen thing, but, on the contrary, it is a 
seen thing because one sees it; and one does not 
lead it because it is a led thing, but it is a led thing 
because one leads it; and one does not carry it 
because it is a carried thing, but it is a carried 
thing because one carries it. Is it clear, Euthyphro, 
what I am trying to say? I am trying to say 
this, that if anything becomes or undergoes, it 
does not become because it is in a state of becoming, 
but it is in a state of becoming because it becomes, 
and it does not undergo-_because it is a thing which 
undergoes, but because it undergoes it is a thing 
which undergoes; or do you not agree to this? 

EUTHYPHRO, I agree. 

socraTes. Is not that which is beloved a thing 
which is either becoming or undergoing something ? 

EUTHYPHRO Certainly. 

socraTes. And is this case like the former ones: 
those who love it do not love it because it is a 
beloved thing, but it is a beloved thing because 
they love it? 

EUTHYPHRO. Obviously. 


37 


PLATO 


ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ti δὴ οὖν λέγομεν περὶ τοῦ ὁσίου, 


D ὦ Εὐθύφρον; ἄλλο τι φιλεῖται ὑπὸ θεῶν πάντων, 


1] 


ὡς ὁ σὸς λόγος; 

Εὐθύφρων. Ναί. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. "Apa διὰ τοῦτο, ὅτι ὅσιόν ἐστιν, ἢ 
δι᾿ ἄλλο τι; 

ΕΥ̓Θύφρων. Οὔκ, ἀλλὰ διὰ τοῦτο. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Διότε ἄρα ὅσιόν ἐστιν, φιλεῖται, 
ἀλλ᾽ οὐχ ὅτι φιλεῖται, διὰ τοῦτο ὅσιόν ἐστιν; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. βοικεν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ᾿Αλλὰ μὲν δὴ διότι γε φιλεῖται ὑπὸ 
θεῶν, φιλοῦμενόν ἐστι καὶ θεοφιλὲς τὸ θεοφιλές. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. [Πῶς γὰρ οὔ; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκ ἄρα τὸ θεοφιλὲς ὅσιόν ἐστιν, ὦ 
Τυὐθύφρον, οὐδὲ τὸ ὅσιον θεοφιλές, ὡς σὺ λέγεις, 
ἀλλ᾽ ἕτερον τοῦτο τούτου. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. Πῶς δή, ὦ Σώκρατες; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ὅτε ὁμολογοῦμεν τὸ μὲν ὅσιον διὰ 
τοῦτο φιλεῖσθαι, ὅτε ὅσιόν ἐστιν, ἀλλ᾽ οὐ διότι 
φιλεῖται, ὅσιον εἶναι" ἡ γάρ; 

Εὐθύφρων. Nai. 

18. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τὸ δέ ye θεοφιλὲς ὅτι φιλεῖται 
ὑπὸ θεῶν, αὐτῷ τούτῳ τῷ φιλεῖσθαι θεοφιλὲς 
εἶναι, ANN οὐχ ὅτι θεοφιλές, διὰ τοῦτο φιλεῖσθαι. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. ᾿Αληθῆ λέγεις. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Αλλ᾽ εἴ γε ταὐτὸν ἦν, ὦ φίλε 
ὐθύφρον, τὸ θεοφιλὲς καὶ τὸ ὅσιον, εἰ μὲν διὰ τὸ 
ὅσιον εἶναι ἐφιλεῖτο, τὸ ὅσιον, καὶ διὰ τὸ θεοφιλὲς 
εἶναι ἐφιλεῖτο ἂν τὸ θεοφιλές, εἰ δὲ διὰ τὸ φιλεῖ- 
σθαι ὑπὸ θεῶν τὸ θεοφιλὲς θεοφιλὲς ἦν, καὶ τὸ 


1 τὸ θεοφιλές added by Schanz following Bast. 
33 


EUTHYPHRO 


socraTes. Now what do you say about that 
which is holy, Euthyphro? It is loved by all 
the gods, is it not, according to what you said? 

EUTHYPHRO. Yes. 

socraTes. For this reason, because it is holy, 
or for some other reason? 

EUTHYPHRO. No, for this reason. 

socraTes. It is loved because it is holy, not holy 
because it is loved? 

EUTHYPHRO. I think so. 

socraTEs. But that which is dear to the gods 
is dear to them and beloved by them because they 
love it. 

EUTHYPHRO. Of course. 

socraTes. Then that which is dear to the gods 
and that which is holy are not identical, but differ 
one from the other. 

EUTHYPHRO. How so, Socrates? 

SOCRATES. Because we are agreed that the holy 
is loved because it is holy and that it is not holy 
because it is loved; are we not? 

EUTHYPHRO. Yes. 

socraTes. But we are agreed that what is dear 
to the gods is dear to them because they love it, 
that is, by reason of this love, not that they love it 
because it is dear. 

EUTHYPHRO. Very true. 

socrates. But if that which is dear to the gods 
and that which is holy were identical, my dear 
Euthyphro, then if the holy were loved because 
it is holy, that which is dear to the gods would 
be loved because it is dear, and if that which 
is dear to the gods is dear because it is loved, 
then that which is holy would be holy because 


39 


PLATO 


A X A a -_ A 
ὅσιον ἂν διὰ τὸ φιλεῖσθαι ὅσιον ἦν" νῦν δὲ ὁρᾷς, 
ὅτι ἐναντίως ἔχετον, ὡς παντάπασιν ἑτέρω ὄντε 
3 f \ \ 4 “ a 3 \ 
ἀλλήλων. TO μὲν yap, ὅτι φιλεῖται, ἐστὶν οἷον 
φιλεῖσθαι: τὸ δ᾽ ὅτι ἐστὶν οἷον φιλεῖσθαι, διὰ 
τοῦτο φιλεῖται. καὶ κινδυνεύεις, ὦ Ἐθύφρον, 

, \ σ a / ? wv \ 
ἐρωτώμενος τὸ ὅσιον, 6 TL TOT ἔστιν, τὴν μὲν 
3 , 2 a » ΄ -“ ΄ 
οὐσίαν μοι αὐτοῦ οὐ βούλεσθαι δηλῶσαι, πάθος 

a ie ¢ / fal \ 

δέ τι περὶ αὐτοῦ λέγειν, 6 TL πέπονθε τοῦτο TO 
oe a ¢e \ 4 A Ψ NE Be: 
ὅσιον, φιλεῖσθαι ὑπὸ πάντων θεῶν" ὅ τι δὲ ὄν, 
Υ̓͂ 4 2 4 ΄. / ᾽ ΄ 
οὔπω εἶπες. εἰ οὖν σοι φίλον, μή με ἀποκρύψη, 
> \ / ᾽ Ν 3 > nm / a SSG 
ἀλλὰ πάλιν εἰπὲ ἐξ ἀρχῆς, TL ποτε ὃν TO ὅσιον 
” a ἘΝ a ν ς \ ΄ ᾽ \ 
εἴτε φιλεῖται ὑπὸ θεῶν εἴτε ὁτιδὴ πάσχει: οὐ γὰρ 

\ ΄ ’ ᾿ > 3) aN 7 ; 
περὶ τούτου διοισόμεθα: ἀλλ᾽ εἰπὲ προθύμως, τὶ 

XN , 

ἐστιν τό τε ὅσιον καὶ τὸ ἀνόσιον; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. ᾿Αλλ᾽, ὦ Σώκρατες, οὐκ ἔχω ἔγωγε, 


ΝΜ a 


a“ / a 
ὅπως σοι εἴπω ὃ νοῶ. περιέρχεται γάρ πως ἡμῖν 


f / 
ἀεὶ ὃ ἂν προθώμεθα, καὶ οὐκ ἐθέλει μένειν ὅπου 
ἂν ἱδρυσώμεθα αὐτό. 
aA ε / / 2 > , 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τοῦ ἡμετέρου προγόνου, ὦ Εὐθύ- 
» > / \ e \ » ,ὔ 
φρον, ἔοικεν εἶναι Δαιδάλου τὰ ὑπὸ σοῦ λεγόμενα. 
\ 2 \ > \ ? \ 5» 2 ἊΝ ’ θέ » 
καὶ εἰ μὲν αὑτὰ ἔγω ἔλεγον Kal ἐτιθέμὴην, ἰσως 
f 4 3 x \ \ 
ἄν με ἐπέσκωπτες, ὡς Apa Kal ἐμοὶ κατὰ THY 
“ »Μ 
ἐκείνου ξυγγένειαν τὰ ἐν τοῖς λόγοις ἔργα ἀποδι- 
, 
δράσκει καὶ οὐκ ἐθέλει μένειν ὅπου ἄν τις αὐτὰ 
a a , \ ‘ Cave: / 5 / » ΄, 
θῇ: νῦν δέ---σαὶ γὰρ αἱ ὑποθέσεις εἰσίν: ἄλλου δή 
a / 
τινος δεῖ σκώμματος. ov yap ἐθέλουσι σοὶ μένειν, 
ὡς καὶ αὐτῷ σοι δοκεῖ. 
A / ον > “ 
εὐθυῴρων. Ἐμοὶ δὲ δοκεῖ σχεδὸν τι τοῦ αὐτοῦ 


Ξ 


» 


40 


EUTHYPHRO 


it is loved; but now you see that the opposite 
is the case, showing that the two are entirely 
different from each other. For the one becomes 
lovable from the fact that it is loved, whereas 
the other is loved because it is in itself lovable. 
And, Euthyphro, it seems that when you were 
asked what holiness is you were unwilling to 
make plain its essence, but you mentioned some- 
thing that has happened to this holiness, namely, 
that it is loved by the gods. But you did not 
tell as yet what it really is. So, if you please, 
do not hide it from me, but begin over again 
and tell me what holiness is, no matter whether 
it is loved by the gods or anything else happens 
to it; for we shall not quarrel about that. But 
tell me frankly, What is holiness, and what is 
unholiness ? 

EUTHYPHRO. But, Socrates, I do not know how to 
say what I mean. For whatever statement we 
advance, somehow or other it moves about and won't 
stay where we put it. 

socRATEs. Your statements, Euthyphro, are like 
works of my! ancestor Daedalus, and if I were the 
one who made or advanced them, you might laugh 
at me and say that on account of my relationship to 
him my works in words run away and won't stay 
where they are put. But now—well, the statements 
are yours; so some other jest is demanded ; for they 
won't stay fixed, as you yourself see. 

EUTHYPHRO. I think the jest does very well as it 

1 Socrates was the son of a sculptor and was himself 
educated to be asculptor. This is doubtless the reason for 
his reference to Daedalus as an ancestor. Daedalus was a 


half mythical personage whose statues were said to have been 
so lifelike that they moved their eyes and walked about. 


41 


l 


2 


a 


PLATO 


σκώμματος, ὦ Σώκρατες, δεῖσθαι τὰ “λεγόμενα' 
τὸ γὰρ περιιέναι τούτοις ' τοῦτο καὶ μὴ μένειν ἐν 
τῷ αὐτῷ οὐκ ἐγώ εἰμι, ὁ ἐντιθείς, ἀλλὰ σύ μοι 
δοκεῖς ὃ Δαίδαλος" ἐπεὶ ἐμοῦ γε ἕνεκα ἔμενεν ἂν 
ταῦτα οὕτως. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Κινδυνεύω ἄρα, ὦ ἑταῖρε, ἐκείνου 
τοῦ ἀνδρὸς δεινότερος “γεγονέναι τὴν τέχνην το- 
σούτῳ, ὅσῳ ὁ μὲν τὰ αὑτοῦ μόνα ἐποίει οὐ 
μένοντα, ἐγὼ δὲ πρὸς τοῖς ἐμαυτοῦ, ὡς ἔοικε, καὶ 
τὰ ἀλλότρια. καὶ δῆτα τοῦτό μοι τῆς τέχνης 
ἐστὶ κομψότατον, ὅτι ἄκων εἰμὶ copes. ἐβου- 
λόμην γὰρ ἄν μοι τοὺς λόγους μένειν καὶ ἀκινήτως 
ἱδρῦσθαι μᾶλλον ἢ πρὸς τῇ Δαιδάλου σοφίᾳ 
τὰ Ταντάλου χρήματα γενέσθαι. καὶ τούτων 
μὲν ἅδην" ἐπειδὴ δέ μοι δοκεῖς σὺ τρυφᾶν, αὐτός 
σοι ξυμπροθυμήσομαι,; ὅπως ἄν με διδάξῃς περὶ 
τοῦ ὁσίου. καὶ μὴ προαποκάμῃς. ἰδὲ γάρ, εἰ 
οὐκ ἀναγκαῖόν σοι δοκεῖ δίκαιον εἶναι πᾶν τὸ 
ὅσιον. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Ἔμοιγε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. "Ap οὗν καὶ πᾶν τὸ δίκαιον ὅ ὅσιον, 
ἢ τὸ μὲν ὅσιον πᾶν δίκαιον, τὸ δὲ δίκαιον οὐ πᾶν 
ὅσιον, ἀλλὰ τὸ μὲν αὐτοῦ ὅσιον, τὸ δέ τι καὶ 
ἄλλο; 

Εὐθύφρων. Οὐχ ἕπομαι, ὦ Σώκρατες, τοῖς 
λεγομένοις. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Καὶ μὴν νεώτερός γέ μουν εἶ οὐκ 
ἐλάττονι ἢ 7 ὅσῳ σοφώτερος" ἀλλ᾽, ὃ λέγω, τρυφᾷς 
ὑπὸ πλούτου τῆς σοφίας. ἀλλ᾽, ὦ μακάριε, 


1 χούτοις is bracketed by Schanz following Stallbaum. 
2 ξυμπροθυμήσομαι δεῖξαι the manuscripts. Schanz follows 
Hermann in omitting δεῖξαι. 


42 


EUTHYPHRO 


is; for I am not the one who makes these statements 
move about and not stay in the same place, but you 
are the Daedalus; for they would have stayed, so 
far as I am concerned. 

socraTES. Apparently then, my friend, I am a 
more clever artist than Daedalus, inasmuch as he 
made only his own works move, whereas I, as _ it 
seems, give motion to the works of others as well as 
to my own. And the most exquisite thing about 
my art is that I am clever against my will; for I 
would rather have my words stay fixed and stable 
than possess the wisdom of Daedalus and the wealth 
of Tantalus besides. But enough of this. Since 
you seem to be indolent, I will aid you myself, so 
that you may instruct me about holiness. And do 
not give it up beforehand. Just see whether 
you do not think that everything that is holy is 
right. 

EUTHYPHRO, I do. 

socRATES. But is everything that is right also 
holy? Or is all which is holy right, and not all 
which is right holy, but part of it holy and part 
something else? 

EUTHYPHRO. I can’t follow you, Socrates. 

socraTes. And yet you are as much younger than 
I as you are wiser ; but, as I said, you are indolent 
on account of your wealth of wisdom. But exert 


43 


PLATO 


/ [ \ 29 \ XN 
ξύντεινε σαυτόν' καὶ yap οὐδὲ χαλεπὸν KaTa- 
νοῆσαι ὃ λέγω. λέγω γὰρ δὴ τὸ ἐναντίον ἢ ὁ 

Ἕ € 
ποιητὴς ἐποίησεν ὁ ποιήσας" 


Ζῆνα δὲ τόν θ᾽ ἕρξαντα, καὶ ὃς τάδε πάντ᾽ 
ἐφύτευσεν, 
» > ὔ ᾽ ww tf Ν / » \ 3 ‘ 
οὐκ ἐθέλεις εἰπεῖν: ἵνα γὰρ δέος, ἔνθα καὶ αἰδώς. 


\ / / a a 
ἐγὼ οὖν τούτῳ διαφέρομαι TH ποιητῇ. εἴπω σοι 
ὅπῃ; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Ἰ]άνυ γε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐ δοκεῖ μοι εἶναι, ἵνα δέος, ἔνθα 
καὶ αἰδώς. πολλοὶ γάρ μοι δοκοῦσι καὶ νόσους 
A / ‘ Μ \ na ¢ 
καὶ πενίας καὶ ἄλλα πολλὰ τοιαῦτα δεδιότες 
δεδιέναι μέν, αἰδεῖσθαι δὲ μηδὲν ταῦτα ἃ δεδίασιν. 

οὐ καὶ σοὶ δοκεῖ; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. Πάνυ γε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. "AAN ἵνα γε αἰδώς, ἔνθα καὶ δέος 
4 a 
εἶναι: ἐπεὶ ἔστιν ὅστις αἰδούμενός TL πρᾶγμα καὶ 

, 
αἰσχυνόμενος οὐ πεφόβηταί τε καὶ δέδοικεν ἅμα 
δόξαν πονηρίας; 
/ \ φ 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Δέδοικε μὲν οὗν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκ ap’ ὀρθῶς ἔχει λέγειν" ἵνα γὰρ 

/ vv \ 3 hi 3 > A \ ’ , » \ 
δέος, ἔνθα καὶ αἰδώς: ἀλλ᾽ ἵνα μὲν αἰδώς, ἔνθα Kai 
δέος, οὐ μέντοι ἵνα γε δέος, πανταχοῦ αἰδώς. ἐπὶ 

“- , 

πλέον γάρ, οἶμαι, δέος αἰδοῦς: μόριον yap αἰδὼς 
δέους, ὥσπερ ἀριθμοῦ περιττόν, ὥστε οὐχ ἵνα περ 
ἀριθμός, ἔνθα καὶ περιττόν, ἵνα δὲ περιττόν, ἔνθα 
καὶ ἀριθμός. ἕπει γάρ που νῦν γε; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. Πάνυ γε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τὸ τοιοῦτον τοίνυν καὶ ἐκεῖ λέγων 
᾽ ΄ 4 7 / », δ: ὦ A ,ᾳ 
ἠρώτων, ἄρα ἵνα δίκαιον, ἔνθα καὶ ὅσιον, ἢ ἵνα 

Ἂς a Μ \ , 4 \ , » 
μὲν ὅσιον, ἔνθα καὶ δίκαιον, ἵνα δὲ δίκαιον, οὐ 


44 


EUTHYPHRO 


yourself, my friend; for it is not hard to understand 
what I mean. What I mean is the opposite of what 
the poet! said, who wrote: “Zeus the creator, him 
who made all things, thou wilt not name; for where 
fear is, there also is reverence.” Now I disagree 
with the poet. Shall I tell you how ἢ 

EUTHYPHRO. By all means. 

socraTEs. It does not seem to me true that 
where fear is, there also is reverence; for many 
who fear diseases and poverty and other such things 
seem to me to fear, but not to reverence at all these 
things which they fear. Don’t you think so, too? 

EUTHYPHRO. Certainly. 

socraTes. But J think that where reverence is, 
there also is fear; for does not everyone who has a 
feeling of reverence and shame about any act also 
dread and fear the reputation for wickedness ? 

EUTHYPHRO. Yes, he does fear. 

socraTES. Then it is not correct to say “ where 
fear is, there also is reverence.’ On the contrary, 
where reverence is, there also is fear; but reverence 
is not everywhere where fear is, since, as I think, 
fear is more comprehensive than reverence; for 
reverence is a part of fear, just as the odd is a 
part of number, so that it is not true that where 
number is, there also is the odd, but that where the 
odd is, there also is number. Perhaps you follow 
me now? 

EUTHYPHRO. Perfectly. 

socRATEs. It was something of this sort that 1 
meant before, when I asked whether where the 
right is, there also is holiness, or where holiness is, 


1 Stasinus, author of the ‘‘Cypria” (Fragm. 20, ed. 
Kinkel). 


45 


13 


PLATO 


πανταχοῦ ὅσιον" μύριον yap τοῦ δικαίου τὸ ὅσιον. 
οὕτω φῶμεν ἢ ἄλλως σοι δοκεῖ; 

Εὐθύφρων. Οὔκ, ἀλλ᾽ οὕτω. φαίνει γάρ μοι 
ὀρθῶς λέγειν. 

14. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. “Opa δὴ τὸ μετὰ τοῦτο. εἰ γὰρ 
μέρος τὸ ὅσιον τοῦ δικαίου, δεῖ δὴ ἡμᾶς, ὡς ἔοικεν, 
ἐξευρεῖν τὸ ποῖον μέρος ἂν εἴη τοῦ δικαίου τὸ 
ὅσιον. εἰ μὲν οὖν σύ με ἠρώτας τι τῶν νῦν δή, 
οἷον ποῖον μέρος ἐστὶν ἀριθμοῦ τὸ ἄρτιον καὶ τίς 
ὧν τυγχάνει οὗτος ὁ ἀριθμός, εἶπον ἄν, ὅτι ὃς ἂν 
μὴ σκαληνὸς ἢ, ἀλλ᾽ ἰσοσκελής" ἢ οὐ δοκεῖ σοι; 

EreréPan. “Ἐμοιγε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Πειρῶ δὴ καὶ σὺ ἐμὲ οὕτω διδάξαι, 
τὸ ποῖον μέρος τοῦ δικαίου ὅσιόν ἐστιν, ἵνα καὶ 
Μελήτῳ λέγωμεν μηκέθ᾽ ἡμᾶς ἀδικεῖν μηδὲ ἀσε- 
βείας γράφεσθαι, ὡς ἱκανῶς ἤδη παρὰ σοῦ μεμα- 
θηκότας τά τε εὐσεβῆ καὶ ὅσια καὶ τὰ μή. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Τοῦτο τοίνυν ἔμοιγε δοκεῖ, ὦ Σώ- 
κρατες, τὸ μέρος τοῦ δικαίου εἶναι εὐσεβές τε καὶ 
ὅσιον, τὸ περὶ τὴν τῶν θεῶν θεραπείαν: τὸ δὲ 
περὶ τὴν τῶν ἀνθρώπων τὸ λοιπὸν εἶναι τοῦ 
δικαίου μέρος. 

15. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Καὶ καλῶς γέ μοι, ὦ Εὐῤθύ- 
φρον, φαίνει λέγειν: ἀλλὰ σμικροῦ τινος ἔτι 
ἐνδεής εἰμι. τὴν γὰρ θεραπείαν οὔπω ξυνίημι 
ἥντινα ὀνομάζεις. οὐ γάρ που λέγεις γε, οἷαί περ 
καὶ αἱ περὶ τὰ ἄλλα θεραπεῖαί εἰσιν, τοιαύτην 
καὶ περὶ θεούς. λέγομεν γάρ που--οἷον φαμέν, 
ἵππους οὐ πᾶς ἐπίσταται θεραπεύειν, ἀλλὰ ὁ 
ἱππικός" ἡ γάρ; 

46 


EUTHYPHRO 


there also is the right; but holiness is not every- 
where where the right is, for holiness is a part of 
the right. Do we agree to this, or do you dissent ? 

EUTHYPHRO. No, I agree; for I think the state- 
ment is correct. 

socraTes. Now observe the next point. If 
holiness is a part of the right, we must, apparently, 
find out what part of the right holiness is. Now 
if you asked me about one of the things I just 
mentioned, as, for example, what part of number 
the even was, and what kind of a number it was 
I should say, “that which is not indivisible by 
two, but divisible by two” ; or don’t you agree? 

EUTHYPHRO. I agree. 

socrates. Now try iu your turn to teach me 
what part of the right holiness is, that I may 
tell Meletus not to wrong me any more or bring 
suits against me for impiety, since I have now 
been duly instructed by you about what is, and 
what is not, pious and holy. 

EUTHYPHRO. This then is my opinion, Socrates, 
that the part of the right which has to do with 
attention to the gods constitutes piety and holiness, 
and that the remaining part of the right is that 
which has to do with the service of men. 

socrATes. I think you are correct, Euthyphro; 
but there is one little point about which I still 
want information, for 1 do not yet understand 
what you mean by “attention.” I don’t suppose 
you mean the same kind of attention to the gods 
which is paid to other things. We say, for example, 
that not everyone knows how to attend to horses, 
but only he who is skilled in horsemanship, do 
we not? 


47 


PLATO 


Ererepon. Ilavu ye. 

SQKPATHS. Η yap που ἱππικὴ ἵππων θερα- 
πεία. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. Nat. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐδέ γε κύνας πᾶς ἐπίσταται θερα- 
πεύειν, ἀλλὰ ὁ κυνηγετικός. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. Οὕτω. 

SOKPATHS. ‘H yap που κυνηγετικὴ κυνῶν 
θεραπεία. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. Ναί. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ἩΗ δὲ βοηλατικὴ βοῶν. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. [νυ γε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἢ δὲ δὴ ὁσιότης τε καὶ εὐσέβεια 
θεῶν, ὦ Εὐθύφρον; οὕτω λέγεις; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. ᾿Εγωγε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν θεραπεία γε πᾶσα ταὐτὸν 
διαπράττεται; οἷον τοιόνδε' ἐπ᾿ ἀγαθῷ τινί ἐστι 
καὶ ὠφελείᾳ τοῦ θεραπευομένου, ὥσπερ ὁρᾷς δή, 
ὅτι οἱ ἵπποι ὑπὸ τῆς ἱππικῆς θεραπευόμενοι 
ὠφελοῦνται καὶ βελτίους γίγνονται’ ἢ οὐ δο- 
κοῦσί σοι; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. “Epourye. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Καὶ οἱ κύνες γέ που ὑπὸ τῆς κυνη- 
γετικῆς, καὶ οἱ βόες ὑπὸ τῆς βοηλατικῆς, καὶ 
τἄλλα πάντα ὡσαύτως: ἢ ἐπὶ βλάβῃ οἴει τοῦ 
θεραπευομένου τὴν θεραπείαν εἶναι; 

Ererepan. Μὰ Δί οὐκ ἔγωγε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Αλλ' ἐπ᾽ ὠφελείᾳ; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. Πῶς δ᾽ οὔ; 

SOKPATHS. Ἢ οὖν καὶ ἡ ὁσιότης θεραπεία οὖσα 
θεῶν ὠφέλειά τέ ἐστι θεῶν καὶ βελτίους τοὺς θεοὺς 


48 


EUTHYPHRO 


EuTHYPHRO. Certainly. 

socrATES. Then horsemanship is the art of at- 
tending to horses? 

EUTHYPHRO. Yes. 

socrATEs. And not everyone knows how to 
attend to dogs, but only the huntsman ? 

EUTHYPHRO. ‘That is so. 

socraTEs. ‘Then the huntsman’s art is the art of 
attending to dogs? 

EUTHYPHRO. Yes. 

socraTes. And the oxherd’s art is that of 
attending to oxen? 

EUTHYPHRO. Certainly. 

socraTes. And holiness and piety is the art of 
attending to the gods? Is that what you mean, 
Euthyphro? 

EUTHYPHRO. Yes, 

socrATES. Now does attentfon always aim to 
accomplish the same end? I mean something like 
this: It aims at some good or benefit to the 
one to whom it is given, as you see that horses, 
when attended to by the horseman’s art are bene- 
fited and made better ; or don’t you think so? 

EUTNYPHRO, Yes, I do. 

socrates. And dogs are benefited by the hunts- 
man’s art and oxen by the oxherd’s and everything 
else in the same way? Or do you think care and 
attention are ever meant for the injury of that 
which is cared for? 

EUTHYPHRO. No, by Zeus, I do not. 

socraTEs. But for its benefit ? 

EUTHYPHRO. Of course. 

socraTes. Then holiness, since it is the art of 
attending to the gods, is a benefit to the gods, and 


49 


1D 


PLATO 


ποιεῖ; καὶ σὺ τοῦτο ξυγχωρήσαις ἄν, ws ἐπειδάν 
τι ὅσιον ποιῇς, βελτίω τινὰ τῶν θεῶν ἀπεργάζξει; 

ΕΥ̓Θύφρων. Μὰ Δί οὐκ ἔγωγε. 

ΣΏΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐδὲ γὰρ ἐγώ, ὦ Εὐθύφρον, οἶμαί σε 
τοῦτο λέγειν" πολλοῦ καὶ δέω" ἀλλὰ τούτου δὴ 
ἕνεκα καὶ ἀνηρόμην, τίνα ποτὲ λέγοις τὴν θεραπείαν 
τῶν θεῶν, οὐχ ἡγούμενός σε τοιαύτην λέγειν. 

Εὐθύφρων. Καὶ ὀρθῶς γε, ὦ Σώκρατες" οὐ γὰρ 
τοιαύτην λέγω. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Εἶεν’ ἀλλὰ τίς δὴ θεῶι θεραπεία εἴη 
ἂν ἡ ὁσιότης; : 

Εὐθύφρων. “Husrep, ὦ Σώκρατες, οἱ δοῦλοι τοὺς 
δεσπότας θεραπεύουσιν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Μανθάνω' ὑπηρετική τις ἄν, ὡς 
ἔοικεν, εἴη θεοῖς. 

Εὐθύφρων. Πάνυ μὲν οὖν. 

16. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ἔχεις οὖν εἰπεῖν, ἡ ἰατροῖς 
ὑπηρετικὴ εἰς τίνος ἔργον ἀπεργασίαν τυγχάνει 
οὖσα ὑπηρετική; οὐκ εἰς ὑγιείας οἴει; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. ~“Eyore. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί δέ; ἡ ναυπηγοῖς ὑπηρετικὴ εἰς 
τίνος ἔργου ἀπεργασίαν ὑπηρετική ἐστιν; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ, Δῆλον ὅτι, ὦ Σώκρατες, εἰς πλοίου. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Καὶ ἡ οἰκοδόμοις γέ που εἰς οἰκίας; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡων. Ναί. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Εἰπὲ δή, ὦ ἄριστε: ἡ δὲ θεοῖς ὑπη- 
ρετικὴ εἰς τίνος ἔργου ἀπεργασίαν ὑπηρετικὴ ἂν 
εἴη; δῆλον γὰρ ὅτι σὺ οἶσθα, ἐπειδήπερ τά γε θεῖα 
κάλλιστά γε φὴς εἰδέναι ἀνθρώπων. 

ΕΥθύφρων. Καὶ ἀληθῆ γε λέγω, ὦ Σώκρατες. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Εἰπὲ δὴ πρὸς Διός, τί ποτέ ἐστιν 


50 


EUTHYPHRO 


makes them better? And you would agree that 
when you do a holy or pious act you are making 
one of the gods better? 

EuTHYPHRO. No, by Zeus, not I. 

sucraTes. Nor do I, Euthyphro, think that is 
what you meant. Far from it. But I asked what 
you meant by “attention to the gods” just because 
I did not think you meant anything like that. 

EUTHYFHRO. You are right, Socrates; that is not 
what I mean. 

socratEs. Well, what kind of attention to the 
gods is holiness ? 

EUTHYPHRO. The kind, Socrates, that servants 
pay to their masters. 

socrates. I understand. It is, you mean, a kind 
of service to the gods? 

EUTHYPHRO. Exactly. 

socraTEs. Now can you tell me what result 
the art that serves the physician serves to produce? 
Is it not health? 

EUTHYPHRO. Yes. 

socraTes. Well then; what is it which the 
art that serves shipbuilders serves to produce? 

EUTHYPHRO. Evidently, Socrates, a ship. 

socrates. And that which serves housebuilders 
serves to build a house? 

EUTHYPHRO. Yes. 

socraTes. Then tell me, my friend; what would 
the art which serves the gods serve to accomplish ? 
For it is evident that you know, since you say you 
know more than any other man about matters which 
have to do with the gods. 

EUTHYPHRO. And what I say is true, Socrates. 

socraTes. Then, in the name of Zeus, tell me, 


51 


ι4 


PLATO 


ἐκεῖνο TO πάγκαλον ἔργον, ὃ οἱ θεοὶ ἀπεργάζονται 
ἡμῖν ὑπηρέταις χρώμενοι; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. Πολλὰ καὶ καλά, ὦ Σώκρατες. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Καὶ γὰρ οἱ στρατηγοί, ὦ φίλε: ἀλλ᾽ 
ὅμως τὸ κεφάλαιον αὐτῶν ῥᾳδίως ἂν εἴποις, ὅτι 
νίκην ἐν τῷ πολέμῳ ἀπεργάζονται" ἢ οὔ; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. [Πῶς δ᾽ οὔ; 

ΣΏΚΡΑΤΗΣ. [Πολλὰ δέ γ᾽, οἶμαι, καὶ καλὰ καὶ οἱ 
γεωργοί: add’ ὅμως τὸ κεφάλαιον αὐτῶν ἐστιν 
τῆς ἀπεργασίας ἡ ἐκ τῆς γῆς τροφή. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Πάνυ γε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί δὲ δή; τῶν πολλῶν καὶ καλῶν, ἃ 
οἱ θεοὶ ἀπεργάζονται, τί τὸ κεφάλαιόν ἐστι τῆς 
ἐργασίας; ἔνθ ας ; : 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Kal odtyov σοι πρότερον εἶπον, ὦ 
Σώκρατες, ὅτι πλείονος ἔργου ἐστὶν ἀκριβῶς πάντα 
ταῦτα ὡς ἔχει μαθεῖν" τόδε μέντοι σοι ἁπλῶς λέγω, 
ὅτι ἐὰν μὲν κεχαρισμένα τις ἐπίστηται τοῖς θεοῖς 
λέγειν τε καὶ πράττειν εὐχόμενός τε καὶ θύων, 
ταῦτ᾽ ἔστι τὰ ὅσια, καὶ σῴζει τὰ τοιαῦτα τούς 
τε ἰδίους οἴκους καὶ τὰ κοινὰ τῶν πόλεων" τὰ δ᾽ 
ἐναντία τῶν κεχαρισμένων ἀσεβῆ, ἃ δὴ καὶ 
ἀνατρέπει ἅπαντα καὶ ἀπόλλυσιν. 

17. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἢ πολύ μοι διὰ βραχυτέρων, ὦ 
Εὐθύφρον, εἰ ἐβούλου, εἶπες ἂν τὸ κεφάλαιον ὧν 
ἠρώτων. ἀλλὰ γὰρ οὐ πρόθυμός με εἶ διδάξαι" 
δῆλος el. καὶ γὰρ νῦν ἐπειδὴ ἐπ᾽ αὐτῷ ἦσθα, 
ἀπετράπον" ὃ εἰ ἀπεκρίνω, ἱκανῶς ἂν ἤδη παρὰ 
σοῦ τὴν ὁσιότητα ἐμεμαθήκη. νῦν δέ---ἀνάγκη 
γὰρ τὸν ἐρῶντα τῷ ἐρωμένῳ ἀκολουθεῖν, ὅπῃ ἂν 
ἐκεῖνος ὑπάγῃ" τί δὴ αὖ λέγεις τὸ ὅσιον εἶναι καὶ 


ξ2 


EUTHYPHRO 


what is that glorious result which the gods accom- 
plish by using us as servants? 

EUTHYPHRO. ‘They accomplish many fine results, 
Socrates. 

socraTes. Yes, and so do generals, my friend ; 
but nevertheless, you could easily tell the chief of 
them, namely, that they bring about victory in war. 
Is that not the case? 

EUTHYPHRO. Of course. 

socraTes. And farmers also, I think, accomplish 
many fine results ; but still the chief result of their 
work is food from the land ? 

EUTHYPHRO, Certainly. 

socraTes. But how about the many fine results 
the gods accomplish? What is the chief result of 
their work ? 

EUTHYPHRO. I told you a while ago, Socrates, 
that it is a long task to learn accurately all about 
these things. However, I say simply that when one 
knows how to say and do what is gratifying to the 
gods, in praying and sacrificing, that is holiness, and 
such things bring salvation to individual families and 
to states ; and the opposite of what is gratifying to the 
gods is impious, and that overturns and destroys 
everything. 

socraTes. You might, if you wished, Euthyphro 
have answered much more briefly the chief part of 
my question. But it is plain that you do not care to 
instruct me. For now, when you were close upon it 
you turned aside; and if you had answered it, I 
should already have obtained from you all the 
instruction I need about holiness. But, as things 
are, the questioner must follow the one questioned 
wherever he leads. What do you say the holy, or 


53 


PLATO 


τὴν ὁσιότητα; οὐχὶ ἐπιστήμην τινὰ τοῦ θύειν τε 
καὶ εὔχεσθαι; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. ἔγωγε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν τὸ θύειν δωρεῖσθαί ἐστι τοῖς 
θεοῖς, τὸ δ᾽ εὔχεσθαι αἰτεῖν τοὺς θεούς; 

Εὐθύφρων. Καὶ μάλα, ὦ Σώκρατες. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Επιστήμη ἄρα αἰτήσεως καὶ δόσεως 
θεοῖς ὁσιότης ἂν εἴη ἐκ τούτου τοῦ λόγου. 

ΕΥθύφρων. Πάνυ καλῶς, ὦ Σώκρατες, ξυνῆκας ὃ 
εἶπον. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Εἰπιθυμητὴς γάρ εἰμι, ὦ φίλε, τῆς 
σῆς σοφίας καὶ προσέχω τὸν νοῦν αὐτῇ, ὥστε οὐ 

ae Sng 
χαμαὶ πεσεῖται ὅ τι ἂν εἴπῃς. ἀλλά μοι λέξον, τίς 
αὕτη ἡ ὑπηρεσία ἐστὶ τοῖς θεοῖς; αἰτεῖν τε φὴς 
αὐτοὺς καὶ διδόναι ἐκείνοις; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. “Evywrye. 

18. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ἾΑρ᾽ οὖν οὐ τὸ ὀρθῶς αἰτεῖν ἂν 
εἴη, ὧν δεόμεθα παρ᾽ ἐκείνων, ταῦτα αὐτοὺς αἰτεῖν; 

Εὐθύφρων. ᾿Αλλὰ τί; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Καὶ αὖ τὸ διδόναι ὀρθῶς, ὧν ἐκεῖνοι 
τυγχάνουσιν δεόμενοι παρ᾽ ἡμῶν, ταῦτα ἐκείνοις 
αὖ ἀντιδωρεῖσθαι; οὐ γάρ που τεχνικὸν Ὑ ἂν 
εἴη δωροφορεῖν διδόντα τῳ ταῦτα ὧν οὐδὲν δεῖται. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. ᾿Αληθῆ λέγεις, ὦ Σώκρατες. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Εμπορικὴ ἄρα τις ἂν εἴη, ὦ Εὐθύ.- 
φρον, τέχνη ἡ ὁσιότης θεοῖς καὶ ἀνθρώποις παρ᾽ 
ἀλλήλων. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. Εμπορική, εἰ οὕτως ἥδιόν σοι ὀνο- 
μάζειν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ᾿Αλλ᾽ οὐδὲν ἥδιον ἔμοιγε, εἰ μὴ τυγ: 
χανει ἀληθὲς ὄν. φράσον δέ μοι, τίς ἡ ὠφέλεια 
τοῖς θεοῖς τυγχάνει οὖσα ἀπὸ τῶν δώρων ὧν Tap’ 


54 


EUTHYPHRO 


holiness, is? Do you not say that it is a kind of 
science of sacrificing and praying? 

EUTHYPHRO. Yes. 

socraTes. And sacrificing is making gifts to the 
gods and praying is asking from them ? 

EUTHYPHRO. Exactly, Socrates. 

socraTes. Then holiness, according to this defini- 
tion, would be a science of giving and asking. 

EUTHYPHRO. You understand perfectly what 1 
said, Socrates. 

socraTes. Yes, my friend, for I am eager for your 
wisdom, and give my mind to it, so that nothing you 
say shall fall to the ground. But tell me, what is 
this service of the gods? Do you say that it 
consists in asking from them and giving to them? 

EUTHYPHRO. Yes. 

socnaTes. Would not the right way of asking 
be to ask of them what we need from them? 

EUTHYPHRO. What else? 

socrates. And the right way of giving, to present 
them with what they need from us? For it would 
not be scientific giving to give anyone what he does 
not need. 

EUTHYPHRO. You are right, Socrates. 

socraTEes. Then holiness would be an art of barter 
between gods and men? 

EUTHYPHRO. Yes, of barter, if you like to call 
it so. 

socraTEs. 1 don’t like to call it so, if it is not true. 
But tell me, what advantage accrues to the gods from 


55 


15 


PLATO 


e A 3 a \ \ , \ 
ἡμῶν λαμβάνουσιν; ἃ μὲν yap διδόασι, παντὶ 
δῆλον" οὐδὲν γὰρ ἡμῖν ἐστιν ἀγαθόν, ὅ τι ἂν μὴ 
ἐκεῖνοι δῶσιν: ἃ δὲ παρ᾽ ἡμῶν λαμβάνουσιν, τί 
ὠφελοῦνται; ἢ τοσοῦτον αὐτῶν πλεονεκτοῦμεν 
κατὰ τὴν ἐμπορίαν, ὥστε πάντα τἀγαθὰ παρ᾽ 
αὐτῶν λαμβάνομεν, ἐκεῖνοι δὲ παρ᾽ ἡμῶν οὐδέν; 
"A ᾽ v Ss Ss / \ θ \ 
EYOYSPON. AX οἷει, ὦ Σώκρατες, TOUS θεοὺς 
’ -“ > δι tA A 3 e Lal 4 
ὠφελεῖσθαι ἀπὸ τούτων, ἃ Tap ἡμῶν λαμβάνου- 
σιν; 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ᾿Αλλὰ τί δήποτ᾽ ἂν εἴη ταῦτα, ὦ 
Εὐθύφρον, τὰ παρ᾽ ἡμῶν δῶρα τοῖς θεοῖς; 
’ὔ ᾽ w Μ a / \ / 
ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Τί δ᾽ οἴει ἄλλο ἢ τιμή τε Kal γέρα 
καί, ὅπερ ἐγὼ ἄρτι ἔλεγον, χάρις; 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Κεχαρισμένον ἄρα ἐστιν, ὦ Εὐθύ- 
\ ¢ 3 3 3 \ ᾽ / 3 A , 
φρον, τὸ ὅσιον, ἀλλ᾽ οὐχὶ ὠφέλιμον οὐδὲ φίλον 
τοῖς θεοῖς; 
? v 4 
Everepan. Οἶμαι ἔγωγε πάντων ye μάλιστα 
φίλον. 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τοῦτο ἄρ᾽ ἐστὶν αὖ, ὡς ἔοικε, τὸ 
ὅσιον, τὸ τοῖς θεοῖς φίλον. 
ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. Μάλιστά γε. 
19. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Θαυμάσει οὖν ταῦτα λέγων, ἐάν 
id , 
σοι οἱ λόγοι φαίνωνται μὴ μένοντες ἀλλὰ βαδίζοντες, 
ee \ ᾿] ΄, X ,ὔ , > \ 
καὶ ἐμὲ αἰτιάσει τὸν Δαίδαλον βαδίζοντας αὐτοὺς 
ποιεῖν, αὐτὸς ὧν πολύ γε τεχνικώτερος τοῦ Δαι- 
δάλου καὶ κύκλῳ περιιόντα ποιῶν; ἢ οὐκ αἰ- 
/ icf € , ς an \ / ’ 
σθάνει, ὅτε ὁ λόγος ἡμῖν περιελθὼν πάλιν εἰς 
ταὐτὸν ἥκει; μέμνησαι γάρ που, ὅτε ἐν τῷ ἔμ- 
προσθεν τό τε ὅσιον καὶ τὸ θεοφιλὲς οὐ ταὐτὸν 
ea > 4 > Ὁ ? Δ Ὰ > , 
ἡμῖν ἐφάνη, adr ἕτερα ἀλλήλων" ἢ οὐ μέμνησαι; 
ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. "Βγωγε. 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Nov οὖν οὐκ ἐννοεῖς, ὅτε τὸ τοῖς 


56 


EUTHYPHRO 


the gifts they get from us? For everybody knows 
what they give, since we have nothing good which 
they do not give. But what advantage do they 
derive from what they get from us? Or have we so 
much the better of them in our bartering that we 
get all good things from them and they nothing from 
us ἢ 

EUTHYPHRO. Why you don’t suppose, Socrates, 
that the gods gain any advantage from what they 
get from us, do you? 

socraTes. Well then, what would those gifts of 
ours to the gods be? 

EUTHYPHRO. What else than honour and praise, 
and, as I said before, gratitude? 

socraTes. Then, Euthyphro, holiness is grateful 
to the gods, but not advantageous or precious to the 
gods? 

EUTHYPHRO. I think it is precious, above all things. 

socraTes. Then again, it seems, holiness is that 
which is precious to the gods. 

EUTHYPHRO. Certainly. 

socraTes. Then will you be surprised, since you 
say this, if your words do not remain fixed but walk 
about, and will you accuse me of being the Daedalus 
who makes them walk, when you are yourself much 
more skilful than Daedalus and make them go round 
ina circle? Ordo you not see that our definition 
has come round to the point from which it started? 
For you remember, I suppose, that a while ago we 
found that holiness and what is dear to the gods 
were not the same, but different from each other; 
or do you not remember ? 

EUTHYPHRO. Yes, I remember. 

socraTes. Then don’t you see that now you say 


57 


10 


PLATO 
θεοῖς φίλον φὴς ὅσιον εἶναι; τοῦτο δ᾽ ἄλλο τι ἡ 
θεοφιλὲς γίγνεται ἢ οὔ; 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. ᾿ Πάνυ γε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν ἢ ἄρτι οὐ καλῶς ὡμολο- 
γοῦμεν, ἢ εἰ τότε καλῶς, νῦν οὐκ ὀρθῶς τιθέμεθα. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΎΦΡΩΝ. "Ἐοίκεν. 

20. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἔξ a ἀρχῆς ἄρα ἡμῖν πάλιν σκε- 
πτέον, τί ἐστι τὸ ὅσιον" ὡς ἐγώ, πρὶν ἂν μάθω, ἑκὼν 
εἶναι οὐκ ἀποδειλιάσω. ἀλλὰ μή με ἀτιμάσῃς, ἀλλὰ 
παντὶ τρόπῳ προσέχων τὸν νοῦν ὅ τι μάλιστα νῦν 
εἰπὲ τὴν ἀλήθειαν. οἶσθα γάρ, εἶπερ τις ἄλλος ἀν- 
θρώπων, καὶ οὐκ ἀφετέος εἶ, ὥσπερ ὁ Πρωτεύς, 
πρὶν ἂν εἴπῃς. εἰ γὰρ μὴ ἤδησθα σαφῶς τό τε 
ὅσιον καὶ τὸ ἀνόσιον, οὐκ ἔστιν ὅπως ἄν ποτε 

ἐπεχείρησας ὑπὲρ ἀνδρὸς θητὸς ἄνδρα πρεσβύτην 

πατέρα διωκάθειν φόνου, ἀλλὰ καὶ τοὺς θεοὺς a av 
ἔδεισας παρακινδυνεύειν, μὴ οὐκ ὀρθῶς αὐτὸ 
ποιήσοις, καὶ τοὺς ἀνθρώπους ἠσχύνθης. νῦν δὲ 
εὖ οἶδα ὅτι σαφῶς οἴει εἰδέναι τό τε ὅσιον καὶ μή: 
εἰπὲ οὖν, ὦ βέλτιστε EvOvdpov, καὶ μὴ ἀπο- 
κρύψη ὅ τι αὐτὸ ἡγεῖ. 

ΕΥ̓ΘΥΦΡΩΝ. [is αὖθις τοίνυν, ὦ Σώκρατες" νῦν 
γὰρ σπεύδω ποι, καί μοι ὥρα ἀπιέναι. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οἷα ποιεῖς, ὦ ἑταῖρε! ἀπ᾽ ἐλπίδος 
με καταβαλὼν μεγάλης ἀπέρχει, ἣν εἶχον, ὡς 
παρὰ σοῦ μαθὼν τά τε ὅσια καὶ μὴ καὶ τῆς πρὸς 
Μέλητον γραφῆς ἀπαλλάξομαι, ἐνδειξάμενος 
ἐκείνῳ ὅτι σοφὸς ἤδη παρ᾽ Εὐθύφρονος τὰ θεῖα 
γέγονα καὶ ὅτι οὐκέτι ὑπ᾽ ἀγνοίας αὐτοσχεδιάξω 
οὐδὲ καινοτομῶ περὶ αὐτά, καὶ δὴ καὶ τὸν ἄλλον 
βίον ἄμεινον βιωσοίμην. 


58 


EUTHYPHRO 


that what is precious to the gods is holy? And is 
not this what is dear to the gods? 

EUTHYPHRO. Certainly. 

socraTEs. Then either our agreement a while ago 
was wrong, or if that was right, we are wrong now. 

EUTHYPHRO. So it seems. 

socnaTes. Then we must begin again at the be- 
ginning and ask what holiness is. Since I shall not 
willingly give up until I learn. And do not scorn me, 
but by all means apply your mind now to the utmost 
and tell me the truth; for you know, if any one 
does, and like Proteus, you must be held until you 
speak. For if you had not clear knowledge of 
holiness and unholiness, you would surely not have 
undertaken to prosecute your aged father for murder 
for the sake of a servant. You would have been 
afraid to risk the anger of the gods, in case your 
conduct should be wrong, and would have been 
ashamed in the sight of men. But now I am sure 
you think you know what is holy and what is not. 
So tell me, most excellent Euthyphro, and do not 
conceal your thought. 

EUTHYPHRO. Some other time, Socrates. Now I 
am in a hurry and it is time for me to go. 

socraTEes. Oh my friend, what are you doing? 
You go away and leave me cast down from the 
high hope I had that I should learn from you what 
is holy, and what is not, and should get rid of 
Meletus’s indictment by showing him that I have 
been made wise by Euthyphro about divine matters 
and am no longer through ignorance acting carelessly 
and making innovations in respect to them, and that 
I shall live a better life henceforth. 


59 


ORFS ; 


τιν 


tet tan 57} od sash: Bore allt tom | 


rreterix.. ἢ ἔφυν να, . thai), δαιαγ το, 


δι A ANE 

. ee Sah thes dae: ava You 
Phe a ὅν 
δ Gey’ ye ae " 


ἜΣ ake ᾿ 
μὰν ἐφεανηζερρηρι: ΡΟΝ ee τὴν asi " 
vit tits eleriite a pine abet these toe wil? =: 


- snl sulle trans verre: aanrows pees 


= 


avin tah: Lowi, Jur ὁ αλύν ae nani 
δ bi 8 ἡ en tee 7A ᾿ ba Cee ἼΩΝ 


| fs rome bos west ll Sabon ea ‘ 


fosd, geaditillio ds wok on degees Pi ere - ; 
eye) nih οὐ ἀϑάρεσ, oi kibo Sapien tats -abdly a 7 
Brig coviik μεθα ee. aif. Fire Reser 


ee say ig 
ῃ nus oe Ae τ 20 τῷ 
ἘΣ αν ee ace 


«ἢ 
- 
Ε' 


ΠΈΣ APOLOGY 


INTRODUCTION TO THE APOLOGY 


In the spring of 399 B.c., when Socrates was 
seventy years old, he was accused of impiety and of 
corrupting the youth. The chief accuser was 
Meletus, who was seconded by Anytus and Lyco. 
In the Euthyphro Meletus is spoken of as an insig- 
nificant youth, and in the Apology he is said to have 
been incensed by Socrates’ criticism of the poets. 
Nothing further is known of him, though he may be 
identical with the Meletus mentioned in the Frogs 
(1302) of Aristophanes as a poet of Skola. The 
statement of Diodorus Siculus (XIV, 37), that the 
Athenians, overcome by repentance for their injustice 
to Socrates, put Meletus and Anytus to death, de- 
serves no credence. Anytus, who is one of the 
characters in the Meno, was a man of substance, who 
had served as general of the Athenian armies and 
had recently been active in expelling the Thirty 
Tyrants. He was a bitter enemy of all the sophists, 
and, according to the author of the Apology attributed 
to Xenophon, he had been irritated by Socrates’ 
criticism of his conduct in employing his son in his 
tannery, when the young man was fitted for higher 
things. Lyco was charged by the comic poet Eupolis 
with being of foreign descent, and the comic poet 
Cratinus refers to his poverty and effeminacy, though 
Aristophanes (Wasps, 1301) mentions him among 


63 


INTRODUCTION TO THE APOLOGY 


aristocrats. He seems to have been a person of no 
great importance. 

Cases involving religion came under the jurisdic- 
tion of the King Archon, to whom Meletus submitted 
his indictment of Socrates (see the beginning of the 
Euthyphro), and such cases, like others, were tried 
before the heliastic court, which consisted altogether 
of six thousand citizens chosen by lot, six hundred 
from each of the ten tribes. The court did not 
however, usually sit as a whole, but was divided, so 
that cases were tried before smaller bodies, consisting 
generally of five hundred jurymen or judges, though 
sometimes the number was tess, as four hundred or 
two hundred, and sometimes. more, as one thousand. 
One additional judge was added to these even 
numbers to avoid a tie. Socrates was tried before a 
court of 501 (Apology, 36a). If the accuser did not 
receive a fifth part of the votes cast in a case of this 
kind, he was subject to a fine of 1000 drachmae 
(about £35 or $175). No penalty was prescribed by 
law for the offence with which Socrates was charged. 
After Socrates was found guilty the penalty still 
remained to be determined. The rule was that the 
accused, after conviction, should propose a counter 
penalty, the court being obliged to choose one of the 
two penalties proposed (Apology, 368-388); no 
compromise was permitted. 

The question has frequently been asked, whether 
the Apology is substantially the speech made by 
Socrates before the court or a product of Plato’s 
imagination. In all probability it is essentially the 
speech delivered by Socrates, though it may well be 
that the actual speech was less finished and less 
charming than that which Plato has reported. The 


64 


INTRODUCTION TO THE APOLOGY 


legal procedure is strictly followed, and the manner 
of speech is that which was, as we know from Plato 
and also from Xenophon, usual with Socrates. There 
is nothing inconsistent with what we know of Socrates, 
and no peculiarly Platonic doctrine is suggested. 
The purpose of the dialogue, or rather, of the speech, 
for it is hardly a dialogue, is to present Socrates in a 
true and favourable light to posterity, and that end 
could hardly be gained by publishing a fiction as the 
speech which many Athenians must have remembered 
at the time of publication, which was, in all proba- 
bility, not long after the trial. 

In form the 4 pology, if we disregard the two 
short addresses after the conviction and the condemn- 
ation, follows the rules in vogue for public speeches. 
A brief introduction is followed by the narrative and 
argument, after which the speech closes with a 
brief appeal to the judges and to God (36p). It 
conforms to Plato’s own rule (Phaedrus 264 c), that 
every discourse should, like a living being, have its 
middle parts and its members, all in proper agree- 
ment with each other and with the whole, which is, 
after all, the rule of common sense, followed for the 
most part even by those teachers of rhetoric whose 
elaborate subdivisions and high-sounding nomen- 
clature Plato ridicules in the Phaedrus (266 E-267 p). 
The two shorter addresses after the case had been 
decided against Socrates cannot be expected to stand 
as independent and complete speeches; they are, 
and must be, treated as supplementary and sub- 
ordinate to the speech delivered before the first 
adverse vote. Yet they are symmetrically arranged 
and their topics are skilfully presented. A perora- 
tion would hardly be appropriate before the last of 


65 


INTRODUCTION TO THE APOLOGY 


these and the last itself needs no formal introduc- 
tion ; it serves as a fitting conclusion for the entire 
discourse. As suchit isa brilliant example of oratori- 
cal composition. 

The high moral character and genuine religious 
faith of Socrates are made abundantly clear through- 
out this whole discourse. It would seem almost 
incredible that the Athenian court voted for his con- 
demnation, if we did not know the fact. His condemn- 
ation is to be explained by the general hostility to 
the sophists. Socrates was, to be sure, not a sophist, 
though Aristophanes in the Clouds selects him as the 
representative of that profession to be ridiculed. He 
did not teach for pay and did not promise any definite 
result from his instruction. He did not investigate 
natural phenomena or claim to ensure the political or 
financial success of his hearers; his aim was to show 
the way to righteousness, to the perfection of the 
individual soul. This seems harmless enough, but 
Socrates endeavoured to lead men to righteousness by 
making them think, and thinking, especially on 
matters of religion, is not welcomed by the slothful 
or the conservative. The mere fact that he was a 
leader of thought caused Socrates to be confounded 
with the sophists who were also leaders of thought, 
and were, chiefly, perhaps, for that reason, regarded 
with suspicion and hostility. Moreover, Socrates 
claimed to possess a daimontion, or spiritual monitor, 
which guided his actions. He did not, so far as we 
know, attribute a distinct personality to this inner 
voice, but his belief in it caused him to be accused of 
introducing “ new spiritual beings ” or divinities and 
of disbelieving in the gods of the state, although he 
was apparently punctilious in religious observances. 


66 


INTRODUCTION TO THE APOLOGY 


His method had also, without doubt, aroused many 
personal antagonisms (Apology 21 c-23.). Probably 
Meletus and the judges who voted for the condemn- 
ation of Socrates believed that they were acting in 
the interest of religion and piety, though their 
verdict has not been approved by later generations. 

Editions of the Apology are very numerous. One 
of the best is that of Cron (Apology and Crito), upon 
which the excellent edition of Dyer is based (revised, 
1908, by Seymour). Another good edition is that 
of J. Adam. 


67 


St. 1. 
Ρ. 17 


Α 


ΑΠΟΛΟΓΙΑ ΣΩΚΡΑΤΟΥΣ 


[ΗΘΙΚΟΣ] 


1. Ὅ te μὲν ὑμεῖς, ὦ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, πεπόν- 
θατε ὑπὸ τῶν ἐμῶν κατηγόρων, οὐκ vida’ ἐγὼ δ᾽ 
οὖν καὶ αὐτὸς ὑπ᾽ αὐτῶν ὀλίγου ἐμαυτοῦ ἐπελαθό- 
μήν’ οὕτω πιθανῶς ἔλεγον. καίτοι ἀληθές γε, ὡς 
ἔπος εἰπεῖν, οὐδὲν εἰρήκασιν. μάλιστα δὲ αὐτῶν 
ἕν ἐθαύμασα τῶν πολλῶν ὧν ἐψεύσαντο, τοῦτο, ἐν 
ᾧ ἔλεγον ὡς χρὴ ὑμᾶς εὐλαβεῖσθαι, μὴ ὑπ᾽ ἐμοῦ 
ἐξαπατηθῆτε, ὡς δεινοῦ ὄντος λέγειν. τὸ γὰρ μὴ 
αἰσχυνθῆναι, ὅτι αὐτίκα ὑπ᾽ ἐμοῦ ἐξελεγχθήσονται 
ἔργῳ, ἐπειδὰν pnd ὁπωστιοῦν φαίνωμαι δεινὸς 
λέγειν, τοῦτό μοι ἔδοξεν αὐτῶν ἀναισχυντότατον 
εἶναι, εἰ μὴ ἄρα δεινὸν καλοῦσιν οὗτοι λέγειν τὸν 
τἀληθῆ λέγοντα: εἰ μὲν γὰρ τοῦτο λέγουσιν, 
ὁμολογοίην ἂν ἔγωγε οὐ κατὰ τούτους εἶναι ῥήτωρ. 
οὗτοι μὲν οὖν, ὥσπερ ἐγὼ λέγω, ἤ τι ἢ οὐδὲν 
ἀληθὲς εἰρήκασιν" ὑμεῖς δ᾽ ἐμοῦ ἀκούσεσθε πᾶσαν 
τὴν ἀλήθειαν. οὐ μέντοι μὰ Δία, ὦ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθη- 
ναῖοι, κεκαλλιεπημένους γε λόγους, ὥσπερ οἱ 
τούτων, ῥήμασί τε καὶ ὀνόμασιν, οὐδὲ κεκοσμη- 
μένους, ἀλλὰ ἀκούσεσθε εἰκῇ λεγόμενα τοῖς 
ἐπιτυχοῦσιν ὀνόμασιν: πιστεύω γὰρ δίκαια εἶναι 
ἃ λέγω, καὶ μηδεὶς ὑμῶν προσδοκησάτω ἄλλως: 


68 


THE DEFENCE OF SOCRATES 
AT HIS TRIAL 


[ETHICAL] 


How you, men of Athens, have been affected 
by my accusers, I do not know; but I, for my part, 
almost forgot my own identity, so persuasively did 
they talk; and yet there is hardly a word of truth in 
what they have said. But I was most amazed by one 
of the many lies that they told—when they said that 
you must be on your guard not to be deceived by 
me, because I was a clever speaker. For I thought 
it the most shameless part of their conduct that 
they are not ashamed because they will immediately 
be convicted by me of falsehood by the evidence of 
fact, when I show myself to be not in the least 
a clever speaker, unless indeed they call him a clever 
speaker who speaks the truth ; for if this is what they 
mean, I would agree that I am an orator—not after 
their fashion. Now they, as I say, have said little or 
nothing true; but you shall hear from me nothing 
but the truth. Not, however, men of Athens, 
speeches finely tricked out with words and phrases, 
as theirs are, nor carefully arranged, but you will 
hear things said at random with the words that 
happen to occur to me. For 1 trust that what I say 
is just; and let none of you expect anything else. 


69 


18 


PLATO 


οὐδὲ yap ἂν δηπου πρέποι, ὦ ἄνδρες, THOSE TH 
ἡλικίᾳ ὥσπερ μειρακίῳ πλάττοντι λόγους εἰς 
ὑμᾶς εἰσιέναι. καὶ μέντοι καὶ πάνυ, ὦ ἄνδρες 
᾿Αθηναῖοι, τοῦτο ὑμῶν δέομαι καὶ παρίεμαι' ἐὰν 
διὰ τῶν αὐτῶν λόγων ἀκούητέ μου ἀπολογουμένου, 
δι’ ὧνπερ εἴωθα λέγειν καὶ ἐν ἀγορᾷ ἐπὶ τῶν 
τραπεζῶν, ἵνα ὑμῶν πολλοὶ ἀκηκόασι, καὶ ἄλλοθι, 
μήτε θαυμάζειν μήτε θορυβεῖν τούτου ἕνεκα. ἔχει 
γὰρ οὑτωσί. νῦν ἐγὼ πρῶτον ἐπὶ δικαστήριον 
ἀναβέβηκα, ἔτη γεγονὼς ἑβδομήκοντα" ἀτεχνῶς 
οὖν ξένως ἔ ἔχω τῆς ἐνθάδε λέξεως. ὥσπερ οὖν av, 
εἰ τῷ ὄντι ξένος. ἐτύγχανον ὦν, ξυνεγυγνώσκετε 
δήπου ἄν μοι, εἰ ἐν ἐκείνῃ τῇ φωνῇ τε καὶ τῷ 
τρόπῳ ἔλεγον, ἐν οἷσπερ ἐτεθράμμην, καὶ δὴ καὶ 
νῦν τοῦτο ὑμῶν δέομαι δίκαιον, ὥ ὥς γέ μοι δοκῶ, 
τὸν μὲν τρόπον τῆς λέξεως ἐᾶν' ἴσως μὲν γὰρ 
χείρων, ἴσως δὲ βελτίων ἂν εἴη" αὐτὸ δὲ τοῦτο 
σκοπεῖν καὶ τούτῳ τὸν νοῦν προσέχειν, εἰ δίκαια 
λέγω ἢ μή: δικαστοῦ μὲν γὰρ αὕτη ἀρετή, ῥήτορος 
δὲ τἀληθῆ λέγειν. 

2. Πρῶτον μὲν οὖν δίκαιός εἶμι ἀπολογή- 
σασθαι, ὦ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, πρὸς τὰ πρῶτά μου 
ψευδῆ κατηγορημένα καὶ τοὺς πρώτους κατη- 

¥ \ 
γόρους, ἔπειτα δὲ πρὸς τὰ ὕστερα καὶ τοὺς 
ὑστέρους. ἐμοῦ γὰρ πολλοὶ κατήγοροι γεγόνασι 
πρὸς ὑμᾶς καὶ πάλαι πολλὰ ἤδη ἔτη καὶ οὐδὲν 
ἀληθὲς λέγοντες, οὺς ἐγὼ μᾶλλον φοβοῦμαι ἢ ἢ τοὺς 
ἀμφὶ ἼΑνυτον, καΐπερ ὄντας καὶ τούτους δεινούς" 
ἀλλ᾽ ἐκεῖνοι δεινότεροι, ὦ ἄνδρες, of ὑμῶν τοὺς 
πολλοὺς ἐκ παίδων παραλαμβάνοντες ἔπειθόν τε 
1 Schanz brackets ψευδῆ, following Hirschig. 


70 


ἘΠΕΟΆΡΟΘΕΘΟΥ 


For surely it would not be fitting for one of my age 
to come before you like a youngster making up 
speeches. And, men of Athens, I urgently beg and 
beseech you if you hear me making my defence with 
the same words with which I have been accustomed 
to speak both in the market place at the bankers’ 
tables, where many of you have heard me, and else- 
where, not to be surprised or to make a disturbance 
on this account. For the fact is that this is the first 
time I have come before the court, although I am 
seventy years old; I am therefore an utter foreigner 
te the manner of speech here. Hence, just as you 
would, of course, if I were really a foreigner, pardon 
me if I spoke in that dialect and that manner 
in which I had been brought up, so now I make this 
request of you, a fair one, as it seems to me, that 
you disregard the manner of my speech—for perhaps 
it might be worse and perhaps better—and observe 
and pay attention merely to this, whether what I say 
is Just or not ; for that is the virtue of a judge, and 
an orator’s virtue is to speak the truth. 

First then it is right for me to defend myself 
against the first false accusations brought against me, 
and the first accusers, and then against the later 
accusations and the later accusers. For many 
accusers have risen up against me before you, who 
have been speaking for a long time, many years 
already, and saying nothing true; and I fear them 
more than Anytus and the rest, though these also 
are dangerous ; but those others are more dangerous, 
gentlemen, who gained your belief, since they got 


fa 


PLATO 


καὶ κατηγόρουν ἐμοῦ 1 οὐδὲν ἀληθές, ws ἔστι τις 
Σωκράτης σοφὸς ἀνήρ, τά τε μετέωρα φροντιστὴς 
καὶ τὰ ὑπὸ γῆς ἅπαντα ἀνεζητηκὼς καὶ τὸν ἥττω 
λόγον κρείττω ποιῶν. οὗτοι, ὦ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, 
οἱ ταύτην τὴν φήμην κατασκεδάσαντες, οἱ δεινοί 
εἰσίν μου κατήγοροι" οἱ γὰρ ἀκούοντες ἡγοῦνται 
τοὺς ταῦτα ζητοῦντας οὐδὲ θεοὺς νομίξειν, ἔπειτά 
εἰσιν οὗτοι οἱ κατήγοροι πολλοὶ καὶ πολὺν χρόνον 
ἤδη κατηγορηκότες, ἔτι δὲ καὶ ἐν ταύτῃ τῇ ἡλικίᾳ 
λέγοντες πρὸς ὑμᾶς, ἐν ἡ ἂν μάλιστα ἐπιστεύσατε, 
παῖδες ὄντες, ἔνιοι δ᾽ ὑμῶν καὶ μειράκια, ἀτεχνῶς 
ἐρήμην κατηγοροῦντες ἀπολογουμένου οὐδενός. ὃ 
δὲ πάντων ἀλογώτατον, ὅτι οὐδὲ τὰ ὀνόματα οἷόν 
τε αὐτῶν εἰδέναι καὶ εἰπεῖν, πλὴν εἴ τις κωμῳ- 
διοποιὸς τυγχάνει ὦν" ὅσοι δὲ φθόνῳ καὶ διαβολῇ 
χρώμενοι ὑμᾶς ἀνέπειθον, οἱ δὲ καὶ αὐτοὶ πεπεισ- 
μένοι ἄλλους πείθοντες, οὗτοι πάντων ἀπορώτατοί 
εἰσιν" οὐδὲ γὰρ ἀναβιβάσασθαι οἷόν τ᾽ ἐστὶν αὐτῶν 
ἐνταυθοῖ οὐδ᾽ ἐλέγξαι οὐδένα, ἀλλ’ ἀνάγκη 
ἀτεχνῶς ὥσπερ σκιαμαχεῖν ἀπολογούμενόν τε 
καὶ ἐλέγχειν μηδενὸς ἀποκρινομένου. ἀξιώσατε 
οὖν καὶ ὑμεῖς, ὥσπερ ἐγὼ λέγω, διττούς μου τοὺς 
κατηγόρους γεγονέναι, ἑτέρους μὲν τοὺς ἄρτι 
κατηγορήσαντας, ἑτέρους δὲ τοὺς πάλαι, ods ἐγὼ 
λέγω, καὶ οἰήθητε δεῖν πρὸς ἐκείνους πρῶτόν με 
ἀπολογήσασθαι" καὶ γὰρ ὑμεῖς ἐκείνων πρότερον 
ἠκούσατε κατηγορούντων καὶ πολὺ μᾶλλον ἢ 


1 After ἐμοῦ the MSS. read μᾶλλον ‘‘ more” or ‘‘ rather.” 
Schanz reads μὰ τόν---, ‘‘ by—,” Hermann brackets μᾶλλον 
and also οὐδὲν ἀληθές, Wohlrab omits μᾶλλον. 


72 


THE APOLOGY 


hold of most of you in childhood, and accused me 
without any truth, saying, “There is a certain Socrates, 
a wise man, a ponderer over the things in the air 
and one who has investigated the things beneath the 
earth and who makes the weaker argument the 
stronger.” These, men of Athens, who have spread 
abroad this report, are my dangerous enemies. For 
those who hear them think that men who investigate 
these matters do not even believe in gods. Besides, 
these accusers are many and have been making their 
accusations already for a long time, and moreover 
they spoke to you at an age at which you would 
believe them most readily (some of you in youth, 
most of you in childhood), and the case they 
prosecuted went utterly by default, since nobody 
appeared in defence. But the most unreasonable 
thing of all is this, that it is not even possible to 
know and speak their names, except when one of 
them happens to be a writer of comedies. And all 
those who persuaded you by means of envy and 
slander—and some also persuaded others because 
they had been themselves persuaded—all these are 
most difficult to cope with; for it is not even possible 
to call any of them up here and cross-question him, 
but I am compelled in making my defence to fight, 
as it were, absolutely with shadows and to cross- 
question when nobody answers. Be kind enough, 
then, to bear in mind, as I say, that there are two 
classes of my accusers—one those who have just 
brought their accusation, the other those who, as 1 
was just saying, brought it long ago, and consider 
that I must defend myself first against the latter ; for 
you heard them making their charges first and with 


73 


19 


PLATO 


τῶνδε τῶν ὕστερον. elev’ ἀπολογητέον δή, ὦ 
ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, καὶ ἐπιχειρητέον ὑμῶν ἐξελέ- 
σθαι τὴν διαβολήν, ἣν ὑμεῖς ἐν πολλῷ χρόνῳ 
ἔσχετε, ταύτην ἐν οὕτως ὀλίγῳ χρόνῳ. βουλοίμην 
μὲν οὖν ἂν τοῦτο οὕτως γενέσθαι, εἴ τι ἄμεινον 
καὶ ὑμῖν καὶ ἐμοί, καὶ πλέον τί με ποιῆσαι ἀπο- 
λογούμενον' οἶμαι δὲ αὐτὸ χαλεπὸν εἶναι, καὶ οὐ 
πάνυ με λανθάνει οἷόν ἐστιν. ὅμως τοῦτο μὲν 
ἴτω ὅπῃ τῷ θεῷ φίλον, τῷ δὲ νόμῳ πειστέον καὶ 
ἀπολογητέον. 

8. ᾿Αναχλάβωμεν. οὖν ἐξ ἀρχῆς, τίς ἡ κατηγορία 
ἐστίν, ἐξ ἧς ἡ ἐμὴ διαβολὴ γέγονεν, ἡ δὴ καὶ 
πιστεύων Μέλητός με ἐγράψατο τὴν γραφὴν 
ταύτην. εἶεν" τί δὴ λέγοντες διέβαλλον οἱ δια- 
βάλλοντες; ὥσπερ οὖν κατηγόρων τὴν ἀντω- 
μοσίαν δεῖ ἀναγνῶναι αὐτῶν" Σωκράτης ἀδικεῖ 
καὶ “περιεργάξεται, ζητῶν τά τε ὑπὸ γῆς καὶ 
οὐράνια καὶ τὸν ἥττω λόγον κρείττω ποιῶν καὶ 
ἄχλους τὰ αὐτὰ ταῦτα διδάσκων. τοιαύτη τίς 
ἐστιν" ταῦτα γὰρ ἑωρᾶτε καὶ αὐτοὶ ἐν τῇ ᾽Αρι- 
στοφάνους κωμῳδίᾳ, Σωκράτη τινὰ ἐκεῖ περι- 
φερόμενον, φάσκοντά τε ἀεροβατεῖν καὶ ἄλλην 
πολλὴν φλυαρίαν φλυαροῦντα, ὧν ἐγὼ οὐδὲν 
οὔτε μέγα οὔτε μικρὸν πέρι ἐπαΐω. καὶ οὐχ ὡς 
ἀτιμάξων λέγω τὴν τοιαύτην ἐπιστήμην, εἴ τις 
περὶ τῶν τοιούτων σοφός ἐστιν. μή πως ἐγὼ ὑπὸ 
Μελήτου τοσαύτας δίκας φύγοιμε!" ἀλλὰ γὰρ 
ἐμοὶ τούτων, ὦ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, οὐδὲν μέτεστιν. 
μάρτυρας δὲ αὐτοὺς ὑμῶν τοὺς πολλοὺς παρ- 
έχομαι, καὶ ἀξιῶ ὑμᾶς ἀλλήλους διδάσκειν τε καὶ 

1 §chanz brackets μή πως. . . φύγοιμι. 


74 


THE APOLOGY 


much greater force than these who made them later. 
Well, then, I must make a defence, men of Athens, 
and must try in so short a time to remove from you 
this prejudice which you have been for so long a 
time acquiring. Now I wish that this might turn 
out so, if it is better for you and for me, and that 
I might succeed with my defence; but I think it is 
difficult, and I am not at all deceived about its 
nature. But nevertheless, let this be as is pleasing 
to God, the law must be obeyed and I must make 
a defence. 

Now let us take up from the beginning the 
question, what the accusation is from which the false 
prejudice against me has arisen, in which Meletus 
trusted when he brought this suit against me. What 
did those who aroused the prejudice say to arouse 
it? I must, as it were, read their sworn statement 
as if they were plaintiffs: “Socrates is a criminal 
and a busybody, investigating the things beneath 
the earth and in the heavens and making the 
weaker argument stronger and teaching others these 
same things.” Something of that sort it is. For you 
yourselves saw these things in Aristophanes’ comedy, 
a Socrates being carried about there, proclaiming 
that he was treading on air and uttering a vast 
deal of other nonsense, about which I know nothing, 
either much or little. And I say this, not to cast 
dishonour upon such knowledge, if anyone is wise 
about such matters (may I never have to defend 
myself against Meletus on so great a charge as 
that !),—but I, men of Athens, have nothing to do 
with these things. And I offer as witnesses most 
of yourselves, and I ask you to inform one another 


75 


20 


PLATO 


φράζειν, ὅσοι ἐμοῦ πώποτε ἀκηκόατε διαλεγο- 
μένου: πολλοὶ δὲ ὑμῶν οἱ τοιοῦτοί εἰσιν: φράξετε 
οὖν ἀλλήλοις, εἰ πώποτε ἢ μικρὸν ἣ μέγα ἤκουσέ 
τις ὑμῶν ἐμοῦ περὶ τῶν τοιούτων διαλεγομένου" 
καὶ ἐκ τούτων γνώσεσθε, ὅτι τοιαῦτ᾽ ἐστὶν καὶ 
τἄλλα περὶ ἐμοῦ, ἃ οἱ πολλοὶ λέγουσιν. 

4, ᾿Αλλὰ γὰρ οὔτε τούτων οὐδέν ἐστιν,' οὐδέ γ᾽ 
εἴ τινος ἀκηκόατε ὡς ἐγὼ παιδεύειν ἐπιχειρῶ 
ἀνθρώπους καὶ χρήματα TpaTTopat, οὐδὲ τοῦτο 
ἀληθές. ἐπεὶ καὶ τοῦτο γέ μοι δοκεῖ καλὸν εἶναι, 
εἴ τις οἷός τὸ εἴη παιδεύειν ἀνθρώπους ὥσπερ 
Γοργίας τε ὁ Λεοντῖνος καὶ Πρόδικος ὁ Κεῖος 
καὶ Ἱππίας 0 "Helos. τούτων γὰρ ἕκαστος, ὦ 
ἄνδρες, οἷός Ἰ ἐστὶν 3 ἰὼν εἰς ἑκάστην τῶν πόλεων 
τοὺς νέους, οἷς ἔξεστι τῶν ἑαυτῶν πολιτῶν προῖκα 
ξυνεῖναι ᾧ ἂν βούλωνται, τούτους πείθουσιν τὰς 
ἐκείνων ξυνουσίας ἀπολιπόντας σφίσιν ξυνεῖναι 
χρήματα διδόντας καὶ χάριν προσειδέναι. ἐπεὶ 
καὶ ἄλλος ἀνήρ ἐστι Πάριος ἐνθάδε copes, ὃ ὃν ἐγὼ 
ῃσθόμην ἐπιδημοῦντα" ἔτυχον γὰρ προσελθὼν 
ἀνδρὶ ὃ ὃς τετέλεκε χρήματα σοφισταῖς πλείω ἢ 
ξύμπαντες οἱ ἄλλοι, Καλλίᾳ τῷ Ἱππονίκου: 
τοῦτον οὖν ἀνηρόμην --ἐστὸν γὰρ αὐτῷ δύο υἱέε--- 
Ὦ Καλλία, ἦν δ᾽ ἐγώ, εἰ μέν σου τὼ υἱέε πώλω ἢ 
μόσχω ἐγενέσθην, εἴχομεν. ἂν αὐτοῖν ἐπιστάτην 
λαβεῖν καὶ μισθώσασθαι, ὃ ὃς ἔμελλεν αὐτὼ καλώ 
τε καὶ ἀγαθὼ ποιήσειν τὴν προσήκουσαν ἀρετήν' 
ἦν δ᾽ ἂν οὗτος ἢ τῶν ἱππικῶν τις ἢ τῶν γεωρ- 
γικῶν" νῦν δ᾽ ἐπειδὴ ἀνθρώπω ἐστόν, τίνα αὐτοῖ» 
ἐν νῷ ἔχεις ἐπιστάτην λαβεῖν; τίς τῆς τοιαύτη: 

1 Schanz brackets ἐστιν, 3. Schanz brackets οἷός τ᾿ ἐστὶν. 


16 


THE APOLOGY 


and to tell, all those of you who ever heard me con- 
versing—and there are many such among you—now 
tell, if anyone ever heard me talking much or little 
about such matters. And from this you will perceive 
that such are also the other things that the multitude 
say about me. 

But in fact none of these things are true, and if 
you have heard from anyone that I undertake to 
teach people and that I make money by it, that is not 
true either. Although this also seems to me to be a 
fine thing, if one might be able to teach people, as 
Gorgias of Leontini and Prodicus of Ceos and 
Hippias of Elis are. For each of these men, gen- 
tlemen, is able to go into any one of the cities and 
persuade the young men, who can associate for 
nothing with whomsoever they wish among their 
own fellow citizens, to give up the association with 
those men and to associate with them and pay them 
money and be grateful besides. 

And there is also another wise man here, a 
Parian, who I learned was in town; for I happened 
to meet a man who has spent more on sophists than 
all the rest, Callias, the son of Hipponicus; so I asked 
him—for he has two sons—*“ Callias,” said I, “ if 
your two sons had happened to be two colts or two 
calves, we should be able to get and hire for them an 
overseer who would make them excellent in the kind 
of excellence proper to them; and he would be a 
horse-trainer or a husbandman; but now, since they 
are two human beings, whom have you in mind to 
get as overseer? Who has knowledge of that kind 


11 


PLATO 


ἀρετῆς, τῆς ἀνθρωπίνης τε καὶ πολιτικῆς, ἐπι- 
στήμων ἐστίν; οἶμαι. γάρ σε ἐσκέφθαι διὰ τὴν 
τῶν υἱέων κτῆσιν. ἔστιν τις, ἔφην ἐγώ, ἢ οὔ; 
Πάνυ γε, 7 δ᾽ ὅς. Τίς, ἦν δ᾽ ἐγώ, καὶ ποδαπός, 
καὶ πόσου διδάσκει; Εὔηνος, ἔφη, ὦ Σώκρατες, 
Πάριος, πέντε μνῶν. καὶ ἐγὼ τὸν Εηνον ἐμα- 
κάρισα, εἰ ὡς ἀληθῶς ἔχει ταύτην τὴν τέχνην καὶ 
οὕτως ἐμμελῶς διδάσκει. ἐγὼ οὖν καὶ αὐτὸς 
ἐκαλλυνόμην. τε καὶ ἡ βρυνόμην a ἄν, εἰ ἠπιστάμην 
ταῦτα: ἀλλ᾽ οὐ γὰρ ἐπίσταμαι, ὦ ἄνδρες 
᾿Αθηναῖοι. 

δ: ὝὙπολάβοι ἂν οὖν τίς ὑμῶν ἴσως" ᾿Αλλ᾽, 
Σώκρατες, τὸ σὸν τί ἐστι πρᾶγμα; πόθεν αἱ sou 
βολαί σοι αὗται γεγόνασιν; ov yap δήπου σοῦ γε 
οὐδὲν τῶν ἄχλων περιττότερον πραγματευομένου 
ἔπειτα τοσαύτη φήμη τε καὶ λόγος γέγονεν, εἰ μή 
τι ΄ἔπραττες ἀλλοῖον ἢ οἱ πολλοί" λέγε οὖν 
ἡμῖν, τί ἐστιν, ἵνα μὴ ἡμεῖς περὶ σοῦ αὐτοσχε- 
διάξωμεν. ταυτί μοι δοκεῖ δίκαια λέγειν ὁ λέγων, 
κἀγὼ ὑμῖν πειράσομαι ἀποδεῖξαι, τί ποτ᾽ ἔστιν 
τοῦτο ὃ ἐμοὶ πεποίηκεν τό τε ὄνομα καὶ τὴν 
διαβολήν. ἀκούετε δή. καὶ ἴσως μὲν δόξω τισὶν 
ὑμῶν παίζειν, εὖ “μέντοι ἴστε, πᾶσαν ὑμῖν τὴν 
ἀλήθειαν ἐρῶ. ἐγὼ γάρ, ὧ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, δι᾿ 
οὐδὲν ἀλλ᾽ 7 διὰ σοφίαν τινὰ τοῦτο τὸ ὄνομα 
ἔσχηκα. ποίαν δὴ σοφίαν ταύτην; ἥπερ 
ἐστὶν ἴσως ἀνθρωπίνη σοφία. τῷ ὄντι “γὰρ 
κινδυνεύω ταύτην εἶναι σοφός" οὗτοι δὲ τάχ᾽ ἄν, 
ods ἄρτι ἔλεγον, μείξω τινὰ ἢ κατ᾽ ἄνθρωπον 
σοφίαν σοφοὶ εἶεν, ἐ 2 οὐκ ἔχω, τί λέγω. οὐ τὰ 
δὴ ἔγωγε αὐτὴν ἐπίσταμαι, ἀλλ᾽ ὅστις φησὶ 

1 Schanz brackets εἰ μή τι... πολλοί, 


78 


THE APOLOGY 


of excellence, that of a man and a citizen? For I 
think you have looked into the matter, because you 
have the sons. Is there anyone,” said I, “or not?” 
“Certainly,” said he. ‘ Who,” said I, “and where 
from, and what is his price for his teaching?” 
“Evenus,’ he said, “Socrates, from Paros, five 
minae.” And [I called Evenus blessed, if he really 
had this art and taught so reasonably. I myself 
should be vain and put on airs, if I understood these 
things; but I do not understand them, men of 
Athens. 

Now perhaps someone might rejoin: “ But, 
Socrates, what is the trouble about you? Whence 
have these prejudices against you arisen? For 
certainly this great report and talk has not arisen 
while you were doing nothing more out of the way 
than the rest, unless you were doing something 
other than most people; so tell us what it is, that 
we may not act unadvisedly in your case.” The 
man who says this seems to me to be right, and 
I will try to show you what it is that has brought 
about my reputation and aroused the prejudice 
against me. So listen. And perhaps I shall seem 
to some of you to be joking; be assured, however, I 
shall speak perfect truth to you. 

The fact is, men of Athens, that I have acquired 
this reputation on account of nothing else than a 
sort of wisdom. What kind of wisdom is this? 
Just that which is perhaps human wisdom. For 
perhaps I really am wise in this wisdom; and these 
men, perhaps, of whom 1 was just speaking, might 
be wise in some wisdom greater than human, or I 
don’t know what to say; for I do not understand it, 
and whoever says I do, is lying and speaking to 


79 


21 


PLATO 


ψεύδεταί τε Kai ἐπὶ διαβολῇ τῇ ἐμῇ λέγει. καί 
μοι, ὦ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, μὴ θορυβήσητε, μηδὲ ἂν 
δόξω τι ὑμῖν μέγα λέγειν" οὐ γὰρ ἐμὸν ἐρῶ τὸν 
λόγον, ὃν ἂν λέγω, ἀλλ᾽ εἰς ἀξιόχρεων ὑμῖν τὸν 
λέγοντα ἀνοίσω. τῆς γὰρ ἐμῆς, εἰ δή τίς ἐστιν 
σοφία καὶ οἵα, μάρτυρα ὑμῖν παρέξομαι τὸν θεὸν 
τὸν ἐν Δελφοῖς. Χαιρεφῶντα γὰρ ἴστε που. 
οὗτος ἐμός τε ἑταῖρος ἦν ἐκ νέου καὶ ὑμῶν τῷ 
πλήθει ἑταῖρός τε kal! ξυνέφυγε τὴν φυγὴν 
ταύτην καὶ μεθ᾽ ὑμῶν κατῆλθε. καὶ ἴστε δή, 
οἷος ἦν Χαιρεφῶν, ὡς σφοδρὸς ἐφ᾽ ὅ τι ὁρμήσειεν. 
καὶ δή ποτε καὶ εἰς Δελφοὺς ἐλθὼν ἐτόλμησε 
τοῦτο μαντεύσασθαι: καί, ὅπερ λέγω, μὴ θορυ- 
βεῖτε, ὦ ἄνδρες" ἤ ἤρετο γὰρ δή, εἴ τις ἐμοῦ εἴη 
σοφώτερος. ἀνεῖλεν οὖν ἡ Πυθία μηδένα σοφώ- 
τερον εἶναι. καὶ τούτων πέρι ὁ ἀδελφὸς ὑμῖν 
αὐτοῦ οὑτοσὶ μαρτυρήσει, ἐπειδὴ ἐκεῖνος τε- 
τελεύτηκεν. 

6. Σκέψασθε δέ, ὧν ἕνεκα ταῦτα λέγω" μέχλω 
γὰρ ὑμᾶς διδάξειν, ὅθεν μοι ἡ διαβολὴ γέγονεν. 
ταῦτα γὰρ ἐγὼ ἀκούσας ᾿ἐνεθυμούμην. οὑτωσί: 
τί ποτε λέγει ὁ θεός, καὶ τί ποτε αἰνίττεται; 
ἐγὼ γὰρ δὴ οὔτε μέγα οὔτε σμικρὸν ξύνοιδα 
ἐμαυτῷ σοφὸς ὦν' τί οὖν ποτε λέγει φάσκων 
ἐμὲ σοφώτατον εἶναι; οὐ γὰρ δήπου ψεύδεταί 
ye οὐ yap θέμις αὐτῷ. καὶ πολὺν μὲν χρόνον 
ἠπόρουν, τί ποτε λέγει. ἔπειτα μόγις πάνυ 
ἐπὶ ζήτησιν αὐτοῦ τοιαύτην τινὰ ἐτραπόμην. 

Ἦλθον ἐπί Twa τῶν δοκούντων σοφῶν εἶναι, 

ὡς ἐνταῦθα, εἴ περπου, ἐλέγξων τὸ μαντεῖον 
καὶ ἀποφανῶν τῷ χρησμῷ, ὅτι οὑτοσὶ ἐμοῦ 

1 Schanz brackets ἑταῖρός τε καὶ. 


8ο 


THE APOLOGY 


arouse prejudice against me. And, men of Athens, 
do not interrupt me with noise, even if I seem to you 
to be boasting; for the word which I speak is not 
mine, but the speaker to whom I shall refer it is a 
person of weight. For of my wisdom—if it is wisdom 
at all—and of its nature, I will offer you the god of 
Delphi as a witness. You know Chaerephon, I fancy. 
He was my comrade from a youth and the comrade of 
your democratic party, and shared in the recent exile 
and came back with you. And you know the kind 
of man Chaerephon was, how impetuous in whatever 
he undertook. Well, once he went to Delphi and 
made so bold as to ask the oracle this question ; and, 
gentlemen, don’t make a disturbance at what I say ; 
for he asked if there were anyone wiser than I. 
Now the Pythia replied that there was no one wiser. 
And about these things his brother here will bear 
you witness, since Chaerephon is dead. 

But see why I say these things; for I am going 
to tell you whence the prejudice against me has 
arisen. For when I heard this, I thought to my- 
self: “ What in the world does the god mean, and 
what riddle is he propounding? For I am conscious 
that I am not wise either much or little. What 
then does he mean by declaring that I am the 
wisest? He certainly cannot be lying, for that is 
not possible for him.” And for a long time I was 
at a loss as to what he meant; then with great 
reluctance I proceeded to investigate him somewhat 
as follows. 

I went to one of those who had a reputation for 
wisdom, thinking that there, if anywhere, I should 
prove the utterance wrong and should show the 


81 


EK 


22 


PLATO 


σοφώτερός ἐστι, σὺ δ᾽ ἐμὲ ἔφησθα. διασκοπῶν 
οὖν τοῦτον---ὀνόματι γὰρ οὐδὲν δέομαι λέγειν, 
ἦν δέ τις τῶν πολιτικῶν, πρὸς ὃν ἐγὼ σκοπῶν 
τοιοῦτόν τι ἔπαθον, ὦ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, -καὶ 
διαλεγόμενος αὐτῷ," ἔδοξέ μοι οὗτος ὁ ἀνὴρ 
δοκεῖν μὲν εἶναι σοφὸς ἄλλοις τε πολλοῖς 
ἀνθρώποις καὶ μάλιστα ἑαυτῷ, εἶναι δ᾽ οὔ' 
κἄπειτα ἐπειρώμην αὐτῷ δεικνύναι, ὅτι οἴουτο 
μὲν εἶναι σοφός, εἴη δ᾽ οὔ. ἐντεῦθεν οὖν τούτῳ 
τε ἀπηχθόμην καὶ πολλοῖς τῶν παρόντων, πρὸς 
ἐμαυτὸν δ᾽ οὖν ἀπιὼν ἐλογιξόμην, ὅτι τούτου 
μὲν τοῦ ἀνθρώπου ἐ ἐγὼ TOPWTEPOS εἰμι" κινδυνεύει 
μὲν γὰρ ἡμῶν “οὐδέτερος οὐδὲν καλὸν κἀγαθὸν 
εἰδέναι, ἀλλ᾽ οὗτος μὲν οἴεταί τί εἰδέναι οὐκ 
εἰδώς, ἐγὼ δέ, ὥσπερ οὖν οὐκ οἶδα, οὐδὲ οἴομαι" 
ἔοικα γοῦν τούτου γέ σμικρῷ τινε αὐτῷ τούτῳ 
σοφώτερος εἶναι, ὅτι ἃ μὴ οἶδα οὐδὲ οἴομαι 
εἰδέναι. ἐντεῦθεν ἐπ᾽ ἄλλον ἦα τῶν ἐκείνου 
δοκούντων σοφωτέρων εἶναι, καί μοι ταὐτὰ ταῦτα 
ἔδοξε" καὶ ἐνταῦθα κἀκείνῳ καὶ ἄλλοις πολλοῖς 
ἀπηχθόμην. 

de Mera ταῦτ᾽ οὖν ἤδη ἐφεξῆς 7 a, αἰσθανόμε- 
νος μὲν καὶ λυπούμενος. καὶ δεδιὼς ὅ ὅτι ἀπηχθα- 
νόμην, ὅμως δὲ ἀναγκαῖον ἐδόκει εἶναι τὸ τοῦ 
θεοῦ περὶ πλείστου ποιεῖσθαι" ἰτέον οὖν σκο- 
ποῦντι τὸν χρησμόν, τί λέγει, ἐπὶ ἅπαντας τούς 
τι δοκοῦντας εἰδέναι. καὶ νὴ τὸν κύνα, ὦ ἄνδρες 
᾿Αθηναῖοι: δεῖ γὰρ πρὸς ὑμᾶς τἀληθῆ δλέγειν' 
ἢ μὴν ἐγὼ ἔπαθόν τι τοιοῦτον' οἱ μὲν μάλιστα 
εὐδοκιμοῦντες ἔδοξάν μοι ὀλίγου δεῖν τοῦ πλείστον 


1 Schanz brackets καὶ διαλεγόμενος αὐτῷ. 
3 Schanz brackets καὶ, 


82 


THE APOLOGY 


oracle “This man is wiser than I, but you said [ was 
wisest.” So examining this man—for I need not 
call him by name, but it was one of the public men 
with regard to whom 1 had this kind of experience, 
men of Athens—and conversing with him, this man 
seemed to me to seem to be wise to many other 
people and especially to himself, but not to be so; 
and then 1 tried to show him that he thought he 
was wise, but was not. Asa result, I became hate- 
ful to him and to many of those present; and so, 
as I went away, I thought to myself, “I am wiser 
than this man; for neither of us really knows 
anything fine and good, but this man thinks he 
knows something when he does not, whereas I, as I 
do not know anything, do not think I do either. | 
seem, then, in just this little thing to be wiser than 
this man at any rate, that what I do not know I do 
not think I know either.” From him I went to 
another of those who were reputed to be wiser than 
he, and these same things seemed to me to be true ; 
and there I became hateful both to him and to many 
others. 

After this then I went on from one to another, 
perceiving that I was hated, and grieving and fear- 
ing, but nevertheless I thought I must consider 
the god’s business of the highest importance. So 
I had to go, investigating the meaning of the 
oracle, to all those who were reputed to know 
anything. And by the Dog, men of Athens—for I 
must speak the truth to you—this, I do declare, 
was my experience: those who had the most repu- 
tation seemed to me to be almost the most deficient, 


83 


PLATO 


ἐνδεεῖς εἶναι ξητοῦντι κατὰ τὸν θεόν, ἄλλοι δὲ 
δοκοῦντες φαυλότεροι ἐπιεικέστεροι, εἶναι ἄνδρες 
πρὸς τὸ φρονίμως ἔχειν. δεῖ δὴ ὑμῖν τὴν ἐμὴν 
πλάνην ἐπιδεῖξαι ἁ ὥσπερ πόνους τινὰς πονοῦντος, 
iva! μοι καὶ ἀνέλεγκτος ἡ μαντεία γένοιτο. μετὰ 
γὰρ τοὺς πολιτικοὺς ἦα ἐπὶ τοὺς ποιητὰς τούς 
τε τῶν τραγῳδιῶν καὶ τοὺς τῶν ᾿διθυράμβων 
καὶ τοὺς ἄλλους, ὡς ἐνταῦθα ἐπ᾽ αὐτοφώρῳ 
καταληψόμενος ἐμαυτὸν ἀμαθέστερον ἐκείνων 
ὄντα. ἀναλαμβάνων οὖν αὐτῶν τὰ ποιήματα, 
ἅ μοι ἐδόκει μάλιστα πεπραγματεῦσθαι αὐτοῖς, 
διηρώτων ἂν αὐτούς, τί λέγοιεν, ἕν᾽ ἅμα τί καὶ 
μανθάνοιμι Tap αὐτῶν. αἰσχύνομαι οὖν ὑμῖν 
εἰπεῖν, ὦ ἄνδρες, τἀληθῆ: ὅμως δὲ ῥητέον. ὡς 
ἔπος γὰρ εἰπεῖν ὀλίγου αὐτῶν ἅπαντες οἱ παρ- 
ὄντες ἂν βέλτιον ἔλεγον περὶ ὧν αὐτοὶ ἐπεποιή- 
κεσαν. ἔγνων οὖν καὶ περὶ τῶν ποιητῶν ἐν 
ὀλίγῳ τοῦτο, ὅτε οὐ σοφίᾳ ποιοῖεν ἃ ποιοῖεν, 
ἀλλὰ φύσει τινὶ καὶ ἐνθουσιάζοντες, ὥσπερ οἱ 
θεομάντεις καὶ οἱ χρησμῳδοί: καὶ γὰρ οὗτοι 
λέγουσι μὲν πολλὰ καὶ καλά, ἴσασιν δὲ οὐδὲν 
ὧν λέγουσι. τοιοῦτόν τί μοι ἐφάνησαν πάθος 
καὶ οἱ ποιηταὶ πεπονθότες" καὶ ἅμα ἠσθόμην 
αὐτῶν διὰ τὴν ποίησιν οἰομένων καὶ τἄλλα 
σοφωτάτων εἶναι ἀνθρώπων, ἃ οὐκ ἦσαν. ἀπῆα 
οὖν καὶ ἐντεῦθεν τῷ αὐτῷ 5 οἰόμενος περιγεγονέναι 
ᾧπερ καὶ τῶν πολιτικῶν. 

8. Τελευτῶν οὖν ἐπὶ τοὺς χειροτέχνας na" 
ἐμαυτῷ γὰρ ξυνήδη οὐδὲν ἐπισταμένῳ, ὡς ἔπος 
εἰπεῖν, τούτους δέ γ᾽ ἤδη ὅτι εὑρήσοιμι πολλὰ 


1 Schanz, following Stephanus, inserts μὴ after ἵνα. 
2 Schanz inserts αὐτῶν after τῷ αὐτῷ. 


84 


THE APOLOGY 


as I investigated at the god’s behest, and others who 
were of less repute seemed to be superior men in 
the matter of being sensible. So I must relate to 
you my wandering as I performed my Herculean 
labours, so to speak, in order that the oracle might 
be proved to be irrefutable. For after the public 
men I went to the poets, those of tragedies, and 
those of dithyrambs, and the rest, thinking that 
there I should prove by actual test that I was less 
learned than they. So, taking up the poems of 
theirs that seemed to me to have been most carefully 
elaborated by them, I asked them what they meant, 
that I might at the same time learn something from 
them. Now I am ashamed io tell you the truth, gentle- 
men ; but still it must be told. For there was hardly a 
man present, one might say, who would not speak 
better than they about the poems they themselves had 
composed. So again in the case of the poets also I 
presently recognised this, that what they composed 
they composed not by wisdom, but by nature and 
because they were inspired, like the prophets and 
givers of oracles; for these also say many fine things, 
but know none of the things they say; it was evident 
to me that the poets too had experienced something 
of this same sort. And at the same time I perceived 
that they, on account of their poetry, thought that 
they were the wisest of men in other things as well, 
in which they were not. So I went away from them 
also thinking that I was superior to them in the 
same thing in which I excelled the public men. 
Finally then I went to the hand-workers. For I 
was conscious that I knew practically nothing, but 
I knew I should find that they knew many fine 


85 


29 


PLATO 


καὶ καλὰ ἐπισταμένους. καὶ τούτον μὲν οὐκ 
ἐψεύσθην, ἀλλ᾽ ἠπίσταντο ἃ ἐγὼ οὐκ ἠπιστάμην 
καί μου ταύτῃ σοφώτεροι ἦσαν. ἀλλ᾽, ὦ ἄνδρες 
᾿Αθηναῖοι, ταὐτόν μοι ἔδοξαν ἔ ἔχειν ἁμάρτημα, ὅπερ 
καὶ οἱ ποιηταί, καὶ οἱ ἀγαθοὶ ἡμιουργοί"" la 
τὸ τὴν τέχνην καλῶς ἐξεργάζεσθαι ἕκαστος 
ἠξίου καὶ τἄλλα τὰ μέγιστα σοφώτατος εἶναι, 
καὶ αὐτῶν αὕτη ἡ ,πλημμέλεια ἐκείνην τὴν 
σοφίαν ἀπέκρυπτεν' ὥστ᾽ ἐμὲ ἐμαυτὸν ἀνερωτᾶν 
ὑπὲρ τοῦ χρησμοῦ, “πότερα δεξαίμην ἂν οὕτω 
ὥσπερ ἔχω ἔχειν, μήτε τι σοφὸς ὧν τὴν ἐκείνων 
σοφίαν μήτε ἀμαθὴς τὴν ἀμαθίαν, ἢ ἀμφότερα 
ἃ ἐκεῖνοι ἔχουσιν ἔχειν. ἀπεκρινάμην οὖν ἐμαυτῷ 
καὶ τῷ χρησμῷ, OTL μοι λυσιτελοῖ ὥσπερ ἔχω 
ἔχειν. 

9. 1 κ ταυτησὶ δὴ τῆς ἐξετάσεως, ὦ ἄνδρες 
᾿Αθηναῖοι, πολλαὶ μὲν ἀπέχθειαί poe γεγόνασι 
καὶ οἷαι χαλεπώταται καὶ βαρύταται, ὥστε 
πολλὰς διαβολὰς ἀπ᾽ αὐτῶν γεγονέναι, ὄνομα 
δὲ τοῦτο λέγεσθαι, σοφὸς εἶναι. οἴονται γάρ με 
ἑκάστοτε οἱ παρόντες ταῦτα αὐτὸν εἶναι σοφόν, 
ἃ ἂν ἄλλον ἐξελέγξω: τὸ δὲ κινδυνεύει, ὦ ὧ ἄνδρες, 
τῷ ὄντι ὁ θεὸς σοφὸς εἶναι, καὶ ἐν τῷ χρησμῷ 
τούτῳ τοῦτο λέγειν, ὅτε ἡ ἀνθρωπίνη σοφία 
ὀλίγου τινὸς ἀξία ἐ ἐστὶν καὶ οὐδενός: καὶ φαίνεται 
τοῦτ᾽ οὐ λέγειν τὸν Σωκράτη, προσκεχρῆσθαι 
δὲ τῷ ἐμῷ ὀνόματι, ἐμὲ παράδειγμα ποιούμενος, 
ὥσπερ ἂν εἰ εἴποι, ὅτι οὗτος ὑμῶν, ὦ ἄνθρωποι, 
σοφώτατός ἐστιν, ὅστις ὥσπερ Σωκράτης ἔ ἔγνωκεν 
ὅτι οὐδενὸς ἄξιός ἐστι τῇ ἀληθείᾳ πρὸς σοφίαν. 

Ταῦτ᾽ οὖν ἐγὼ μὲν ἔτι καὶ νῦν περιιὼν ἕητῶ 

1 Schanz brackets καὶ οἱ ἀγαθοὶ δημιουργοί. 


86 


THE APOLOGY 


things. And in this I was not deceived; they did 
know what I did not, and in this way they were wiser 
than I. But, men of Athens, the good artisans also 
seemed to me to have the same failing as the poets; 
because of practising his art well, each one thought 
he was very wise in the other most important mat- 
ters, and this folly of theirs obscured that wisdom, so 
that I asked myself in behalf of the oracle whether I 
should prefer to be as I am, neither wise in their 
wisdom nor foolish in their folly, or to be in both 
respects as they are. I replied then to myself and 
to the oracle that it was better for me to be as 
I am. 

Now from this investigation, men of Athens, many 
enmities have arisen against me, and such as are 
most harsh and grievous, so that many prejudices 
have resulted from them and I am called a wise man. 
For on each occasion those who are present think I 
am wise in the matters in which I confute someone 
else; but the fact is, gentlemen, it is likely that the 
god is really wise and by his oracle means this: 
“ Human wisdom is of little or no value.” And it 
appears that he does not really say this of Socrates, 
but merely uses my name, and makes me an example, 
as if he were to say: “This one of you, O human 
beings, is wisest, who, like Socrates, recognises that 
he is in truth of no account in respect to wisdom.” 

Therefore I am still even now going about and 


87 


PLATO 


καὶ ἐρευνῶ κατὰ τὸν θεόν, καὶ τῶν ἀστῶν καὶ 
ξένων ἄν τινα οἴωμαι σοφὸν εἶναι: καὶ ἐπειδάν 
μοι μὴ δοκῇ, τῷ θεῷ βοηθῶν ἐνδείκνυμαι ὅ ὅτι 
οὐκ ἔστι σοφός. καὶ ὑπὸ ταύτης τῆς ἀσχολίας 
οὔτε τι τῶν τῆς πόλεως πρᾶξαί μοι σχολὴ 
γέγονεν ἄξιον λόγου οὔτε τῶν οἰκείων, ἀλλ᾽ ἐν 
πενίᾳ μυρίᾳ εἰμὶ διὰ τὴν τοῦ θεοῦ λατρείαν. 

10. Πρὸς δὲ τούτοις οἱ νέοι μοι ἐπακολου- 
θοῦντες, οἷς μάλιστα σχολή ἐστιν, οἱ τῶν πλου- 
σιωτάτων, αὐτόματοι χαίρουσιν ἀκούοντες ἐξε- 
ταξομένων τῶν ἀνθρώπων, καὶ αὐτοὶ πολλάκις 
ἐμὲ μιμοῦνται, εἶτα ἐπιχειροῦσιν ἄλλους ἐξετά- 
Sew κἄπειτα, οἶμαι, εὑρίσκουσι πολλὴν ἀφθονίαν 
οἰομένων. μὲν εἰδέναι τε ἀνθρώπων, εἰδότων δὲ 
ὀλίγα ἢ οὐδέν. ἐντεῦθεν οὖν οἱ ὑπ᾽ αὐτῶν 
ἐξεταξόμενοι ἐμοὶ ὀργίξονται, ἀλλ᾽ οὐχ αὑτοῖς, 
καὶ λέγουσιν ὡς ὠκράτης τίς ἐστι μιαρώτατος 
καὶ διαφθείρει τοὺς νέους" καὶ ἐπειδάν τις αὐτοὺς 
ἐρωτᾷ, ὅ τι ποιῶν καὶ ὅ τι ace ἔχουσι μὲν 
οὐδὲν εἰπεῖν, anne ἀγνοοῦσιν, ἵνα δὲ μὴ δοκῶσιν 
ἀπορεῖν, τὰ κατὰ πάντων τῶν φιλοσοφούντων 
πρόχει a ταῦτα λέγουσιν, ὅτι τὰ μετέωρα. καὶ 
τὰ ὑπο γῆς, καὶ θεοὺς μὴ νομίζειν, καὶ τὸν ἥττω 
λόγον κρείττω ποιεῖν. τὰ γὰρ ἀληθῆ, οἴομαι, 
οὐκ ἂν ἐθέλοιεν λέγειν, OTL κατάδηλοι γίγνονται 
προσποιούμενοι μὲν εἰδέναι, εἰδότες δὲ οὐδέν. 
ἅτε οὗν, οἶμαι, φιλότιμοι ὄντες καὶ σφοδροὶ καὶ 
πολλοί, καὶ ξυντεταγμένως " καὶ πιθανῶς λέγοντες 
περὶ ἐμοῦ, ἐμππτεπλήκασιν ὑμῶν τὰ ὦ WTA Kal πάλαι 
καὶ σφοδρῶς διαβάλλοντες. ἐκ τούτων καὶ 


1 Schanz reads ἀμφιγνοοῦσιν, ‘‘ they are in doubt.” 
2 Schanz reads ξυντεταμένως, ‘* earnestly.” 


83 


THE APOLOGY 


searching and investigating at the god’s behest 
anyone, whether citizen or foreigner, who I think 
is wise; and when he does not seem so to me, I 
give aid to the god and show that he is not wise. 
And by reason of this occupation I have no 
leisure to attend to any of the affairs of the state 
worth mentioning, or of my own, but am in vast 
poverty on account of my service to the god. 

And in addition to these things, the young 
men who have the most leisure, the sons of the 
richest men, accompany me of their own accord, find 
pleasure in hearing people being examined, and 
often imitate me themselves, and then they under- 
take to examine others ; and then, I fancy, they find 
a great plenty of people who think they know some- 
thing, but know little or nothing. Asa result, there- 
fore, those who are examined by them are angry 
with me, instead of being angry with themselves, 
and say that “ Socrates is a most abominable person 
and is corrupting the youth.” 

And when anyone asks them “by doing or teach- 
ing what?’ they have nothing to say, but they do 
not know, and that they may not seem to be at a 
loss, they say these things that are handy to say 
against all the philosophers, “the things in the air 
and the things beneath the earth” and “not to 
believe in the gods” and “to make the weaker 
argument the stronger.” For they would not, I 
fancy, care to say the truth, that it is being made 
very clear that they pretend to know, but know 
nothing. Since, then, they are jealous of their honour 
and energetic and numerous and speak concertedly 
and persuasively about me, they have filled your ears 
both long ago and now with vehement slanders. 


89 


PLATO 


Μέλητός μοι ἐπέθετο καὶ “Avutos καὶ Λύκων, 
Μέλητος μὲν ὑπὲρ τῶν ποιητῶν ἀχθόμενος, 
“Avutos δὲ ὑπὲρ τῶν δημιουργῶν καὶ τῶν πολι- 
τικῶν, Λύκων δὲ ὑπὲρ τῶν ῥητόρων: ὥστε, ὅπερ 
ἀρχόμενος ἐγὼ ἔλεγον, θαυμάζοιμ᾽ ἄν, εἰ οἷός 7 
εἴην ἐγὼ ὑμῶν ταύτην τὴν διαβολὴν ἐξελέσθαι ἐν 
οὕτως ὀλίγῳ χρόνῳ οὕτω πολλὴν γεγονυῖαν. ταῦτ᾽ 
ἔστιν ὑμῖν, ὦ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, τἀληθῆ, καὶ ὑμᾶς 
οὔτε μέγα οὔτε μικρὸν ἀποκρυψάμενος ἐγὼ λέγω 
οὐδ᾽ ὑποστειλάμενος. καίτοι οἷδα σχεδόν, ὅτι 
τοῖς αὐτοῖς ἀπεχθάνομαι: ὃ καὶ τεκμήριον, ὅτι 
ἀληθῆ λέγω καὶ ὅτι αὕτη ἐστὶν ἡ διαβολὴ ἡ 
ἐμὴ καὶ τὰ αἴτια ταῦτά ἐστιν. καὶ ἐάν τε νῦν 
ἐάν τε αὖθις ζητήσητε ταῦτα, οὕτως εὑρήσετε. 

11. Περὶ μὲν οὖν ὧν οἱ πρῶτοί μου κατήγοροι 
κατηγόρουν αὕτη ἐστὶν ἱκανὴ ἀπολογία πρὸς 
ὑμᾶς. πρὸς δὲ Μέλητον τὸν ἀγαθόν τε καὶ 
φιλόπολιν, ὥς φησι, καὶ τοὺς ὑστέρους μετὰ 
ταῦτα πειράσομαι ἀπολογεῖσθαι. αὖθις γὰρ δή, 
ὥσπερ ἑτέρων τούτων ὄντων κατηγόρων, λάβωμεν 
αὖ τὴν τούτων ἀντωμοσίαν. ἔχει δέ πως bE 
Σωκράτη φησὶν ἀδικεῖν τούς τε νέους διαφθείροντα 
καὶ θεοὺς ods ἡ πόλις νομίζει οὐ νομίζοντα, ἕτερα 
δὲ δαιμόνια καινά. τὸ μὲν δὴ ἔγκλημα τοιοῦτόν 
ἐστιν: τούτου δὲ τοῦ ἐγκλήματος ἕν ἕκαστον 
ἐξετάσωμεν. φησὶ γὰρ δὴ τοὺς νέους ἀδικεῖν με 
διαφθείροντα. ἐγὼ δέ γε, ὦ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, 
ἀδικεῖν φημι Μέλητον, ὅτι σπουδῇ χαριεντίζεται, 
ῥᾳδίως εἰς ἀγῶνα καθιστὰς ἀνθρώπους, περὶ πραγ- 
μάτων προσποιούμενος σπουδάζειν καὶ κήδεσθαι, 

1 Schanz follows Cobet in bracketing καὶ τῶν πολιτικῶν. 


go 


THE APOLOGY 


From among them Meletus attacked me, and Anytus 
and Lycon, Meletus angered on account of the poets, 
and Anytus on account of the artisans and the public 
men, and Lycon on account of the orators; so that, 
as I said in the beginning, I should be surprised if I 
were able to remove this prejudice from you in so 
short a time when it has grown so great. There you 
have the truth, men of Athens, and I speak without 
hiding anything from you, great or small or prevari- 
cating. And yet I know pretty well that [am making 
myself hated by just that conduct; which is also a 
proof that I am speaking the truth and that this is 
the prejudice against me and these are its causes. 
And whether you investigate this now or hereafter, 
you will find that it is so. 

Now so far as the accusations are concerned 
which my first accusers made against me, this is a 
sufficient defence before you; but against Meletus, 
the good and patriotic, as he says, and the later ones, 
I will try to defend myself next. So once more, as 
if these were another set of accusers, let us take up 
in turn their sworn statement. Itis about as follows: 
it states that Socrates is a wrongdoer because he cor- 
rupts the youth and does not believe in the gods the 
state believes in, but in other new spiritual beings. 

Such is the accusation. But let us examine each 
point of this accusation. He says I am a wrong- 
doer because I corrupt the youth. But I, men of 
Athens, say Meletus is a wrongdoer, because he jokes 
in earnest, lightly involving people in a lawsuit, 
pretending to be zealous and concerned about things 


gi 


PLATO 


ὧν οὐδὲν τούτῳ πώποτε ἐμέλησεν. ὡς δὲ τοῦτο 
οὕτως ἔχει, πειράσομαι καὶ ὑμῖν ἐπιδεῖξαι. 

12. Καί μοι δεῦρο, ὦ ὧ Μέλητε, εἰπέ' ἄλλο τι ἢ 
περὶ πολλοῦ ποιεῖ, ὅπως ὡς βέλτιστοι οἱ νεώτεροι 
ἔσονται; “Eywye. ἴθι δή νυν εἰπὲ τούτοις, τίς 
αὐτοὺς βελτίους ποιεῖ. δῆλον γὰρ ὅτι οἶσθα, 
μέλον γέ σοι. τὸν μὲν γὰρ διαφθείροντα ἐξευρών, 
ὡς φής, ἐμὲ εἰσάγεις τουτοισὶ" καὶ κατηγορεῖς" τὸν 
δὲ δὴ βελτίους ποιοῦντα ἴθι εἰπὲ καὶ μήνυσον 
αὐτοῖς, τίς ἐστιν. ὁρᾷς, @ Μέλητε, ὃ ὅτι συγᾷς καὶ 
οὐκ ἔχεις εἰπεῖν; καίτοι οὐκ “αἰσχρόν σοι δοκεῖ 
εἶναι καὶ ἱκανὸν τεκμήριον οὗ “δὴ ἐγὼ λέγω, ὅτι 
σοι οὐδὲν μεμέληκεν; ἀλλ᾽ εἰπέ, ὦ ᾿γαθέ, τίς 
αὐτοὺς ἀμείνους “ποιεῖ; Οἱ νόμοι. ᾿Αλλ᾽ οὐ τοῦτο 
ἐρωτῶ, ὦ βέλτιστε, ἀλλὰ τίς ἄνθρωπος, ὅστις 
πρῶτον καὶ αὐτὸ τοῦτο οἶδε, τοὺς νόμους. Οὗτοι 
ὦ Σώκρατες, οἱ δικασταί. Ids λέγεις, ὦ Μέλητε; 
οἵδε τοὺς νέους παιδεύειν οἷοί τέ εἰσι καὶ βελτίους 
ποιοῦσιν; Μάλιστα. Πότερον ἃ ἅπαντες, ἢ οἱ μὲν 
αὐτῶν, οἱ δ᾽ οὔ; “Amavtes. Ed γε νὴ τὴν Ἥραν 
λέγεις, καὶ πολλὴν ἀφθονίαν τῶν ὠφελούντων. τί 
δὲ δή; οἵδε οἱ ἀκροαταὶ βελτίους ποιοῦσιν ἢ οὔ; 
Καὶ οὗτοι. Τί δὲ οἱ βουλευταί; Καὶ οἱ βουλευταί. 
᾿Αλλ᾽ ἄρα, ὦ Μέλητε, μὴ οἱ ἐν “πῇ ἐκκλησίᾳ, οἱ 
ἐκκλησιασταί,: διαφθείρουσι τοὺς νεωτέρους; ἢ 
κἀκεῖνοι βελτίους ποιοῦσιν ἅπαντες; Κἀκεῖνοι. 
Πάντες ἄρα, ὡς ἔοικεν, ᾿Αθηναῖοι καλοὺς κἀγαθοὺς 
ποιοῦσι πλὴν ἐμοῦ, ἐγὼ δὲ μόνος διαφθείρω. οὕτω 
λέγεις; Πάνυ σφόδρα ταῦτα λέγω. Πολλήν γ᾽ 

1 Cobet’s suggestion of εἰς τουτουσὶ for τουτοισὶ is adopted 


by Schang. 
1 Schanz follows Hirschig in bracketing of ἐκκλησιασταί. 


92 


THE APOLOGY 


for which he never cared at all. And that this is so 
I will try to make plain to you also. 

Come here, Meletus, tell me: don’t you consider 
it of great importance that the youth be as good as 
possible? “Ido.” Come now, tell these gentlemen 
who makes them better? For it is evident that you 
know, since you care about it. For you have found 
the one who corrupts them, as you say, and you bring 
me before these gentlemen and accuse me; and 
now, come, tell who makes them better and inform 
them who he is. Do you see, Meletus, that you are 
silent and cannot tell? And yet does it not seem to 
you disgraceful and a sufficient proof of what I say, 
that you have never cared about it? But tell, my 
good man, who makes them better? “The laws.” 
But that is not what I ask, most excellent one, but 
what man, who knows in the first place just this very 
thing, the laws. ‘These men, Socrates, the judges.” 
What are you saying, Meletus? Are these gentlemen 
able to instruct the youth, and do they make them 
better? “Certainly.” All, or some of them and others 
not? “All.” Well said, by Hera, and this is a great 
plenty of helpers you speak of. But how about 
this? Do these listeners make them better, or not? 
“These also.’ And how about the senators? ‘The 
senators also.” But, Meletus, those in the assembly, 
the assembly-men, don’t corrupt the youth, do they? 
or dothey also all make them better? “They also.” 
All the Athenians, then, as it seems, make them 
excellent, except myself, and I alone corrupt them. 
Is this what you mean? “ Very decidedly, that is 


93 


PLATO 


ἐμοῦ κατέγνωκας δυστυχίαν. καί μοι ἀπόκριναι" 
ἢ καὶ περὶ ἵππους οὕτω σοι δοκεῖ ἔχειν; οἱ μὲν 
βελτίους ποιοῦντες αὐτοὺς πάντες ἄνθρωποι εἶναι, 
εἷς δέ τις ὁ διαφθείρων; ἢ τοὐναντίον τούτου πᾶν 
εἷς μέν τις ὁ βελτίους οἷός T ὧν ποιεῖν ἢ πάνυ 
ὀλίγοι, οἱ ἱππικοί" οἱ δὲ πολλοὶ ἐάνπερ ξυνῶσι καὶ 

χρῶνται ἵπποις, διαφθείρουσιν; οὐχ οὕτως ἔχει, 
ὦ Μέλητε, καὶ περὶ ἵππων καὶ τῶν ἄλλων ἁπάν- 
των ἕῴων; πάντως δήπου, ἐάν τε σὺ καὶ ἔΑνυτος 
οὐ φῆτε ἐάν τε φῆτε' πολλὴ γὰρ av τις εὐδαιμονία 
εἴη περὶ τοὺς νέους, εἰ εἷς μὲν μόνος αὐτοὺς 
διαφθείρει, οἱ δ᾽ ἄλλοι ὠφελοῦσιν. ἀλλὰ γάρ, 
@ Μέλητε, ἱκανῶς ἐπιδείκνυσαι, ὅτι οὐδεπώ- 
ποτε ἐφρόντισας τῶν νέων, καὶ σαφῶς ἀποφαίνεις 
τὴν σαυτοῦ ἀμέλειαν, ὅτε οὐδέν σοι μεμέληκεν 
περὶ ὧν ἐμὲ εἰσάγεις. 

1 Ἔτι δὲ ἡμῖν εἰπέ, ὧ πρὸς Διὸς Μέλητε, 
πότερον ἔστιν οἰκεῖν ἄμεινον ἐν πολίταις χρηστοῖς 
ἢ πονηροῖς; ὧ τᾶν, ἀπόκριναι" οὐδὲν γάρ τοι 
χαλεπὸν ἐρωτῶ. οὐχ οἱ μὲν πονηροὶ κακόν τι 
ἐργάζονται τοὺς ἀεὶ ἐγγυτάτω ἑαυτῶν ὄντας, οἱ δ᾽ 
ἀγαθοὶ ἀγαθόν τι; Wavy γε. "ἔστιν οὖν ὅστις 
βούλεται ὑπὸ τῶν ξυνόντων βλάπτεσθαι “μᾶλλον 
7) ὠφελεῖσθαι; ἀπόκριναι, ὦ ἀγαθέ: καὶ γὰρ ὁ 
νόμος κελεύει ἀποκρίνεσθαι. ἔσθ᾽ ὅστις βούλεται 
βλάπτεσθαι; Οὐ δῆτα. Φέρε δή, πότερον ἐμὲ 
εἰσάγεις δεῦρο ὡς διαφθείροντα τοὺς νεωτέρους 
καὶ πονηροτέρους ποιοῦντα ἑκόντα ἢ ἄκοντα; 
‘Exovta ἔγωγε. Τί δῆτα, ὦ Μέλητε; τοσοῦτον σὺ 
ἐμοῦ σοφώτερος εἶ τηλικούτου ὄντος τηλικόσδε 
ὦν, ὥστε σὺ μὲν ἔγνωκας ὅτι οἱ μὲν κακοὶ κακόν 
τι ἐργάζονται ἀεὶ τοὺς μάλιστα πλησίον ἑαυτῶν, 


94 


THE APOLOGY 


what I mean.”’ You have condemned me to great 
unhappiness! But answer me; does it seem to you 
to be so in the case of horses, that those who make 
them better are all mankind, and he who injures 
them some one person? Or, quite the opposite of 
this, that he who is able to make them better is some 
one person, or very few, the horse-trainers, whereas 
most people, if they have to do with and use horses, 
injure them? Is it not so, Meletus, both in the case 
of horses and in that of all other animals? Certainly 
it is, whether you and Anytus deny it or agree; for 
it would be a great state of blessedness in the case of 
the youth if one alone corrupts them, and the others 
do them good. But, Meletus, you show clearly enough 
that you never thought about the youth, and you 
exhibit plainly your own carelessness, that you have 
not cared at all for the things about which you hale 
me into court. 

But besides, tell us, for heaven’s sake, Meletus, is 
it better to live among good citizens, or bad? My 
friend, answer; for 1 am not asking anything hard. 
Do not the bad do some evil to those who are with 
them at any time and the good some good? 
“Certainly.”’ Is there then anyone who prefers to 
be injured by his associates rather than benefited ? 
Answer, my good man; for the law orders you to 
answer. Is there anyone who prefers to be injured? 
“ Of course ποῦ. Come then, do you hale me in 
here on the ground that I am corrupting the youth 
and making them worse voluntarily or involun- 
tarily? ‘ Voluntarily I say.” What then, Meletus? 
Are you at your age so much wiser than I at my age, 
that you have recognized that the evil always do 
some evil to those nearest them, and the good some 


95 


26 


PLATO 


of δὲ ἀγαθοὶ ἀγαθὸν: ἐγὼ δὲ δὴ εἰς τοσοῦτον 
ἀμαθίας ἥκω, ὥστε καὶ τοῦτ᾽ ἀγνοῶ, ὅτι, ἐάν τινα 
n / 
μοχθηρὸν ποιήσω τῶν ξυνόντων, κινδυνεύσω κακόν 
τι λαβεῖν ἀπ᾽ αὐτοῦ, ὥστε τοῦτο τὸ τοσοῦτον 
κακὸν ἑκὼν ποιῶ, ὡς φὴς σύ; ταῦτα ἐγώ σοι οὐ 
, = A 3 \ OX » » , 
πείθομαι, ὦ Μέλητε, οἶμαι δὲ οὐδὲ ἄλλον ἀνθρώ- 
’ 
πων οὐδένα' GAN ἢ οὐ διαφθείρω, ἢ εἰ διαφθείρω, 
2, / Ly 
ἄκων, ὥστε σύ γε KAT ἀμφότερα ψεύδει. εἰ δὲ 
ἄκων διαφθείρω, τῶν τοιούτων καὶ ἀκουσίων 
ἁμαρτημάτων οὐ δεῦρο νόμος εἰσάγειν ἐστίν, ἀλλὰ 
ἰδίᾳ λαβόντα διδάσκειν καὶ νουθετεῖν: δῆλον γὰρ 
ὅτι, ἐὰν μάθω, παύσομαι ὅ γε ἄκων ποιῶ. σὺ δὲ 
ξυγγενέσθαι μέν μοι καὶ διδάξαι ἔφυγες καὶ οὐκ 
ἠθέλησας, δεῦρο δὲ εἰσάγεις, of νόμος ἐστὶν 
> 4 \ 4 , 2 3 ᾽ , 
εἰσάγειν τοὺς κολάσεως δεομένους, ἀλλ᾽ οὐ μαθή- 
σεως. 
14. ᾿Αλλὰ γάρ, ὦ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, τοῦτο μὲν 
a Μ 3 a 2 Ἃ μὲ iid / 7, 
δῆλον ἤδη ἐστίν, ὃ ἐγὼ ἔλεγον, ὅτε Μελήτῳ Tov- 
των οὔτε μέγα οὔτε μικρὸν πώποτε ἐμέλησεν. 
- - ’ὔ ἢ 
ὅμως δὲ δὴ λέγε ἡμῖν, πῶς με φῆς διαφθείρειν, ὦ 
Μέλητε, τοὺς νεωτέρους; ἢ δῆλον δὴ ὅτι κατὰ τὴν 
’ ? ’ \ ’ \ / 
γραφήν, ἣν ἐγράψω, θεοὺς διδάσκοντα μὴ νομίζειν 
οὺς ἡ πόλις νομίζει, ἕτερα δὲ δαιμόνια καινά; οὐ 
a , ἊΝ , ’ , \ 
ταῦτα λέγεις, ὅτι διδάσκων διαφθείρω; Idvu μὲν 
aA / \ a 
οὖν σφόδρα ταῦτα λέγω. Ipos αὐτῶν τοίνυν, ὦ 
aA »" a e i 
Μέλητε, τούτων τῶν θεῶν, ὧν νῦν ὁ λόγος ἐστίν, 
εἰπὲ ἔτει σαφέστερον καὶ ἐμοὶ καὶ τοῖς ἀνδράσιν 
τούτοις. ἐγὼ γὰρ οὐ δύναμαι μαθεῖν, πότερον 
΄ 
λέγεις διδάσκειν με νομίζειν εἶναί τινας θεούς, καὶ 
αὐτὸς ἄρα νομίξω εἶναι θεούς, καὶ οὐκ εἰμὶ τὸ 
παράπαν ἄθεος οὐδὲ ταύτῃ ἀδικῶ, οὐ μέντοι 
1 Schanz brackets καὶ ἀκουσίων. 


96 


THE APOLOGY 


good ; whereas I have reached such a depth of ignor- 
ance that I do not even know this, that if I make 
anyone of my associates bad I am in danger of getting 
some harm from him, so that I do this great evil 
voluntarily, as you say? I don’t believe this, Meletus, 
nor do I think anyone else in the world does! but 
either I do not corrupt them, or if I corrupt them, 
I do it involuntarily, so that you are lying in both 
events. But if I corrupt them involuntarily, for such 
involuntary errors the law is not to hale people into 
court, but to take them and instruct and admonish 
them in private. For it is clear that if I am told about 
it, I shall stop doing that which I do involuntarily. 
But you avoided associating with me and instructing 
me, and were unwilling to do so, but you hale me in 
here, where it is the law to hale in those who need 
punishment, not instruction. 

But enough of this, for, men of Athens, this is 
clear, as I said, that Meletus never cared much 
or little for these things. But nevertheless, tell us, 
how do you say, Meletus, that I corrupt the youth? 
Or is it evident, according to the indictment you 
brought, that it is by teaching them not to believe 
in the gods the state believes in, but in other new 
spiritual beings? Do you not say that it is by teach- 
ing this that I corrupt them? “ Very decidedly that 
is what I say.” Then, Meletus, for the sake of these 
very gods about whom our speech now is, speak still 
more clearly both to me and to these gentlemen. 
For I am unable to understand whether you say that 
I teach that there are some gods, and myself then 
believe that there are some gods, and am not alto- 
gether godless and am not a wrongdoer in that way, 
that these, however, are not the gods whom the 


97 


PLATO 


οὕσπερ γε ἡ πόλις, ἀλλὰ ἑτέρους, καὶ TOUT ἔστιν 
ὅ μοι ἐγκαλεῖς, ὅτε ἑτέρους" ἢ παντάπασί με φὴς 
οὔτε αὐτὸν νομίζειν θεοὺς τούς τε ἄλλους ταῦτα 
διδάσκειν. Ταῦτα λέγω, ὡς τὸ παράπαν οὐ νομίζεις 
θεούς. Ὦ θαυμάσιε Μέλητε, ἵνα τί ταῦτα λέγεις; 
οὐδὲ ἥλιον οὐδὲ σελήνην ἄρα νομίζω θεοὺς εἶναι, 
ὥσπερ οἱ ἄλλοι ἄνθρωποι; Μὰ Δί᾽, ὦ ἄνδρες δικα- 
σταί, ἐπεὶ τὸν μὲν ἥλιον λίθον φησὶν εἶναι, τὴν δὲ 
σελήνην γῆν. ᾿Αναξαγόρου " οἴει κατηγορεῖν, ὦ 
φίλε Μέλητε, καὶ οὕτω καταφρονεῖς τῶνδε καὶ 
οἴει αὐτοὺς ἀπείρους γραμμάτων εἶναι, ὥστε οὐκ 
εἰδέναι, ὅτι τὰ ᾿Αναξαγόρου βιβλία τοῦ Κλαζο- 
μενίου γέμει τούτων τῶν λόγων; καὶ δὴ καὶ οἱ 
νέοι ταῦτα παρ᾽ ἐμοῦ μανθάνουσιν, ἃ ἔξεστιν 
ἐνίοτε, εἰ πάνυ πολλοῦ, δραχμῆς ἐκ τῆς ὀρχήστρας 
πριαμένοις Σωκράτους καταγελᾶν, ἐὰν προσποιῆ- 
ται ἑαυτοῦ εἶναι, ἄλλως τε καὶ οὕτως ἄτοπα ὄντα. 
ἀλλ᾽, ὦ πρὸς Διός, οὑτωσί σοι δοκῶ 3 οὐδένα νομί- 
Seu Fae εἶναι; Οὐ μέντοι μὰ Δία οὐδ᾽ ὁπωστιοῦν. 
"᾿Απιστός γ᾽ εἶ, ὦ Μέλητε, καὶ ταῦτα μέντοι, ὡς 
ἐμοὶ δοκεῖς, σαυτῷ. ἐμοὶ γὰρ δοκεῖ οὑτοσί, ὦ 
ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, πάνυ εἶναι ὑβριστὴς καὶ ἀκό- 
λαστος, καὶ ἀτεχνῶς τὴν γραφὴν ταύτην ὕβρει 
τινὶ καὶ ἀκολασίᾳ καὶ νεότητι γράψασθαι. ἔοικεν 
γὰρ ὥσπερ αἴνυγμα ξυντιθέντι διαπειρωμένῳ, apa 
γνώσεται Σωκράτης ὃ σοφὸς δὴ ἐ ἐμοῦ χαριεντιζο- 
μένου καὶ ἐναντί᾽ ἐμαυτῷ λέγοντος, ἢ ἐξαπατήσω 
αὐτὸν καὶ τοὺς ἄλλους τοὺς ἀκούοντας; οὗτος γὰρ 
ἐμοὶ φαίνεται τὰ ἐναντία λέγειν αὐτὸς ἑαυτῷ ἐν 
τῇ γραφῇ, ὥσπερ ἂν εἰ εἴποι: ἀδικεῖ Σωκράτης 
1 Schanz brackets ᾿Αναξαγόρου. 3 Schanz brackets δοκῶ. 


98 


THE APOLOGY 


state believes in, but others, and this is what you 
accuse me for, that I believe in others; or you say 
that I do not myself believe in gods at all and that I 
teach this unbelief to other people. “That is what 
I say, that you do not believe in gods at all.” You 
amaze me, Meletus! Why do you say this? Do I 
not even believe that the sun or yet the moon are 
gods, as the rest of mankind do? “No, by Zeus, 
judges, since he says that the sun is a stone and the 
moon earth.” Do you think you are accusing 
Anaxagoras, my dear Meletus, and do you so despise 
these gentlemen and think they are so unversed in 
letters as not to know, that the books of Anaxagoras 
the Clazomenian are full of such utterances? And 
forsooth the youth learn these doctrines from me, 
which they can buy sometimes (if the price is high) 
for a drachma in the orchestra and laugh at Socrates, 
if he pretends they are his own, especially when they 
are so absurd! But for heaven’s sake, do you think 
this of me, that I do not believe there is any god? 
“No, by Zeus, you don’t, not in the least.” You 
cannot be believed, Meletus, not even, as it seems to 
me, by yourself. For this man appears to me, 
men of Athens, to be very violent and unrestrained, 
and actually to have brought this indictment in a 
spirit of violence and unrestraint and _rashness. 
For he seems, as it were, by composing a 
puzzle to be making a test: “Will Socrates, 
the wise man, recognize that I am joking and 
contradicting myself, or shall I deceive him and 
the others who hear me?” For he appears to me 
to contradict himself in his speech, as if he were 
to say, “Socrates is a wrongdoer, because he does 


5" 


C 


PLATO 


θεοὺς οὐ νομίζων, ἀλλὰ θεοὺς νομίζων. καίτοι 
τοῦτό ἐστι παίζοντος. 

15. Ἐυνεπισκέψασθε δή, ὦ ἄνδρες, ἡ μοι pai- 
νεται ταῦτα λέγειν: σὺ δὲ ἡμῖν ἀπόκριναι, ὦ 
Μέλητε: ὑμεῖς δέ, ὅπερ κατ᾽ ἀρχὰς ὑμᾶς παρῃτη- 
σάμην, μέμνησθέ μοι μὴ θορυβεῖν, ἐὰν ἐν τῷ 
εἰωθότι τρόπῳ τοὺς λόγους ποιῶμαι. "Ἐστιν ὅστις 
ἀνθρώπων, ὦ Μέλητε, ἀνθρώπεια μὲν νομίζει 
πράγματ᾽ εἶναι, ἀνθρώπους δὲ οὐ νομίζει; ἀπο- 
κρινέσθω, ὦ ἄνδρες, καὶ μὴ ἄλλα καὶ ἄλλα θορυ- 
βείτω. ἔσθ᾽ ὅστις ἵππους μὲν οὐ νομίζει, ἱππικὰ 
δὲ πράγματα; ἢ αὐλητὰς μὲν οὐ νομίζει εἶναι, 
αὐλητικὰ δὲ πράγματα; οὐκ ἔστιν, ὦ ἄριστε 
ἀνδρῶν" εἰ μὴ σὺ βούλει ἀποκρίνασθαι, ἐγὼ σοὶ 
λέγω καὶ τοῖς ἄλλοις τουτοισί. ἀλλὰ τὸ ἐπὶ 
τούτῳ γε ἀπόκριναι" ἔσθ᾽ ὅστις δαιμόνια μεν 
νομίζει πράγματ᾽ εἶναι, δαίμονας δὲ οὐ νομίζει; 
Οὐκ ἔστιν. Ὥς ὠνησας, ὅτι μόγις ἀπεκρίνω ὑπὸ 
τουτωνὶ ἀναγκαζόμενος. οὐκοῦν δαιμόνια μὲν φής 
με καὶ νομίζειν καὶ διδάσκειν, εἴτ᾽ οὖν καινὰ εἴτε 
παλαιά": ἀλλ᾽ οὖν δαιμόνιά γε νομίζω κατὰ τὸν 
σὸν λόγον, καὶ ταῦτα καὶ διωμόσω ἐν τῇ ἀντι- 
γραφῇ. εἰ δὲ δαιμόνια νομίζω, καὶ δαίμονας δή- 
που πολλὴ ἀνάγκη νομίζειν μέ ἐστιν" οὐχ οὕτως 
ἔχει; ἔχει δή" ,τίθημι γάρ σε ὁμολογοῦντα, 
ἐπειδὴ οὐκ ἀποκρίνει. τοὺς δὲ δαίμονας οὐχὶ ἤτοι 
θεούς γε ἡγούμεθα ἢ θεῶν παῖδας; φὴς ἢ οὔ; 
Πάνυ γε: Οὐκαῦν εἴπερ δαίμονας ἡγοῦμαι, ὡς σὺ 
φής, εἰ μὲν θεοί τινές εἰσιν οἱ δαίμονες, τοῦτ᾽ ἂν 
εἴη ὃ ἐγώ φημί σε αἰνίττεσθαι καὶ χαριεντίζεσθαι, 
θεοὺς οὐχ ἡγούμενον φάναι ἐμὲ θεοὺς αὖ ἡγεῖσθαι 


roo 


THE APOLOGY 


not believe in gods, but does believe in gods.” 
And yet this is the conduct of a jester. 

Join me, then, gentlemen, in examining how 
he appears to me to say this; and do you, Meletus, 
answer ; and you, gentlemen, as I asked you in the 
beginning, please bear in mind not to make a dis- 
turbance if I conduct my argument in my accustomed 
manner. 

Is there any human being who believes that there 
are things pertaining to human beings, but no human 
beings? Let him answer, gentlemen, and not make 
a disturbance in one way or another. Is there anyone 
who does not believe in horses, but does believe in 
things pertaining to horses? or who does not believe 
that flute-players exist, but that things pertaining to 
flute-players do? There is not, best of men; if you do 
not wish to answer, | say it to you and these others 
here. But answer at least the next question. Is there 
anyone who believes spiritual things exist, but does 
not believe in spirits? “There is not.” Thank you 
for replying reluctantly when forced by these gentle- 
men. Then you say that 1 believe in spiritual beings, 
whether new or old, and teach that belief; but then 
I believe in spiritual beings at any rate, according to 
your statement, and you swore to that in your indict- 
ment. But if I believe in spiritual beings, it is quite 
inevitable that I believe also in spirits; is it not so? 
It is; for I assume that you agree, since you do not 
answer. But do we not think the spirits are gods or 
children of gods? Yes, οὐ ποῦ “Certainly.” Then 
if I believe in spirits, as you say, if spirits are a kind 
of gods, that would be the puzzle and joke which I 
say you are uttering in saying that I, while I do not 
believe in gods, do believe in gods again, since I 


10f 


PLATO 


πάλιν, ἐπειδήπερ γε δαίμονας ἡγοῦμαι" εἰ δ᾽ αὖ 
οἱ δαίμονες, θεῶν παῖδές εἰσιν νόθοι τινὲς ἢ ἐκ 
νυμφῶν ἢ ἔκ τινων ἄλλων, ὧν δὴ καὶ λέγονται, 
τίς ἂν ἀνθρώπων θεῶν μὲν παῖδας ἡγοῖτο 
εἶναι, θεοὺς δὲ μή; ὁμοίως γὰρ ἂν ἄτοπον εἴη, 
ὥσπερ ἂν εἴ τις ἵππων μὲν παῖδας ἡγοῖτο καὶ 
ὄνων, τοὺς ἡμιόνους, ἵππους δὲ καὶ ὄνους μὴ 
ἡγοῖτο εἶναι. ἀλλ᾽, ὦ ͵, Μέλητε, οὐκ ἔστιν 
ὅπως σὺ οὐχὶ ἀποπειρώμενος ἡμῶν ἐγράψω 
τὴν γραφὴν ταύτην ἢ ἀπορῶν ὅτι ἐγκαλοῖς 
ἐμοὶ ἀληθὲς ἀδίκημα' ὅπως δὲ σύ τινα πείθοις 
ἂν καὶ σμικρὸν νοῦν ἔχοντα ἀνθρώπων, ὡς 
τοῦ αὐτοῦ ἐστιν καὶ δαιμόνια καὶ θεῖα ἡγεῖσθαι, 
καὶ αὖ Τοῦ αὐτοῦ ὃ μήτε δαίμονας μήτε θεοὺς μήτε 
ἥρωας," οὐδεμία μηχανή ἐστιν. 

16. ᾿Αλλὰ γάρ, ὦ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, ὡς μὲν ἐγὼ 
οὐκ ἀδικῶ κατὰ τὴν Μελήτου γραφήν, οὐ πολλῆς 
μοι δοκεῖ εἶναι ἀπολογίας, ἀλλὰ ἱκανὰ καὶ ταῦτα" 
ὃ δὲ καὶ ἐν τοῖς ἔμπροσθεν ἔλεγον, ὅτι πολλή μοι 
ἀπέχθεια γέγονεν καὶ πρὸς πολλούς, εὖ ἴστε ὅτι 
ἀληθές ἐστιν. καὶ τοῦτ᾽ ἔστιν ὃ ἐμὲ αἱρήσει, 
ἐάνπερ αἱρῇ, οὐ Μέλητος οὐδὲ " Ανυτος, ἀλλ᾽ ἡ τῶν 
πολλῶν διαβολή τε καὶ φθόνος. & δὴ πολλοὺς 
καὶ ἄλλους καὶ ἀγαθοὺς ἄνδρας ἥρηκεν, οἶμαι δὲ 
καὶ αἱρήσειν" οὐ ν δὲ δεινόν, μὴ ἐν ἐμοὶ στῇ. ἴσως 
δ᾽ ἂν οὖν εἴποι τις" εἶτ᾽ οὐκ αἰσχύνει, ὦ Σώκρατες, 
τοιοῦτον ἐπιτήδευμα ἐπιτηδεύσας, ἐξ οὗ κινδυνεύεις 
νυνὶ ἀποθανεῖν; ἐγὼ δὲ τούτῳ ἂν δίκαιον λόγον 


1 Schanz brackets ταῦτα, which the MSS. give after od. 

2 After ὡς the MSS., and Schanz, read od. It was omitted 
by Stephanus. 

f Schanz, following Hirschig, brackets τοῦ αὐτοῦ. 

= Schanz, following Prammer, brackets μήτε ἥρωας. 


02 


THE APOLOGY 


believe in spirits ; but if, on the other hand, spirits 
are a kind of bastard children of gods, by nymphs or 
by any others, whoever their mothers are said to be, 
what man would believe that there are children of 
gods, but no gods? It would be just as absurd as if 
one were to believe that there are children of horses 
and asses, namely mules, but no horses and asses. 
But, Meletus, you certainly must have brought this 
suit either to make a test of us or because you were 
at a loss as to what true wrongdoing you could accuse 
me of; but there is no way for you to persuade any 
man who has even a little sense that it is possible 
for the same person to believe in spiritual and divine 
existences and again for the same person not to 
believe in spirits or gods or heroes. 

Well then, men of Athens, that I am not a wrong- 
doer according to Meletus’s indictment, seems to 
me not to need much of a defence, but what has 
been said is enough. But you may be assured that 
what I said before is true, that great hatred has 
arisen against me and in the minds of many persons. 
And this it is which will cause my condemnation, if 
it is to cause it, not Meletus or Anytus, but the 
prejudice and dislike of the many. This has con- 
demned many other good men, and 1 think will do 
so; and there is no danger that it will stop with me. 
But perhaps someone might say: “Are you then 
not ashamed, Socrates, of having followed such a 
pursuit, that you are now in danger of being put to 
death asa result?’’ But I should make to him a 


103 


PLATO 


ἀντείποιμι, ὅτε οὐ καλῶς λέγεις, ὦ ἄνθρωπε, εἰ 
οἴει δεῖν κίνδυνον ὑπολογίζεσθαι τοῦ ζῆν ὴ 
τεθνάναι ἄνδρα, ὅ ὅτου τι καὶ σμικρὸν ὄφελός ἐστιν, 
ἀλλ᾽ οὐκ ἐκεῖνο μόνον σκοπεῖν, ὅταν πράττῃ, 
πότερα δίκαια ἢ ἄδικα πράττει, καὶ ἀνδρὸς 
ἀγαθοῦ ἔργα, ἢ κακοῦ. φαῦλοι γὰρ ἂν τῷ γε σῷ 
λόγῳ εἶεν τῶν ἡμιθέων ὅ ὅσοι ἐν Τροίᾳ τετελευτή- 
κασιν οἵ τε ἄλλοι καὶ ὁ τῆς Θέτιδος υἱός, ὃς 
τοσοῦτον τοῦ κινδύνου κατεφρόνησεν παρὰ τὸ 
αἰσχρόν τι ὑπομεῖναι, ὥστε ἐπειδὴ εἶπεν ἡ μήτηρ 
αὐτῷ προθυμουμένῳ “Ἕκτορα ἀποκτεῖναι, θεὸς 
οὖσα, οὑτωσί πως, ὡς ἐγὼ οἶμαι: ὦ παῖ, εἰ τιμωρή- 
σεις Πατρόκλῳ τῷ ἑταίρῳ τὸν φόνον καὶ “Extopa 
ἀποκτενεῖς, αὐτὸς ἀποθανεῖ: αὐτίκα γάρ ToL, 
φησί, μεθ᾽ “Ἕκτορα πότμος ἑτοῖμος: ὁ δὲ ταῦτα 
ἀκούσας τοῦ μὲν θανάτου καὶ τοῦ κινδύνου ὠλεγώ- 
ρήσε, πολὺ δὲ μᾶλλον δείσας τὸ ζῆν κακὸς ὧν καὶ 
τοῖς φίλοις μὴ τιμωρεῖν, αὐτίκα, ησί, τεθναίην 
δίκην ἐπιθεὶς τῷ ἀδικοῦντι, ἵ ἵνα μὴ ἐνθάδε μένω 
καταγέλαστος παρὰ νηυσὶ κορωνίσιν ἄχθος ἀρού- 
ρης. μὴ αὐτὸν οἴει φροντίσαι θανάτου καὶ κιν- 
δύνου; οὕτω γὰρ ἔχει, ὧ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, τῇ 
ἀληθείᾳ: οὗ ἄν τις ἑαυτὸν τάξῃ ἡγησάμενος 
βέλτιστον εἶναι ἢ ὑπ᾽ ἄρχοντος ταχθῇ, ἐνταῦθα 
δεῖ, ὡς ἐμοὶ δοκεῖ, μένοντα κινδυνεύειν, μηδὲν ὑ ὑπο- 
λογιξόμενον μήτε θάνατον μήτε ἄλλο μηδὲν πρὸ 
τοῦ αἰσχροῦ. 

17. ᾿Εγὼ οὖν δεινὰ ἂν εἴην “εἰργασμένος, ὧ 
ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, εἰ, ὅτε μέν με οἱ ἄρχοντες ἔτατ- 
τον, ods ὑμεῖς εἵλεσθε a ἄρχειν μου, καὶ ἐν Ποτιδαίᾳ 
καὶ ἐν ᾿Αμφιπόλει καὶ ἐπὶ Δηλίῳ, τότε μὲν οὗ 


104 


THE APOLOGY 


just reply: “ You do not speak well, Sir, if you think 
a man in whom there is even a little merit ought to 
consider danger of life or death, and not rather 
regard this only, when he does things, whether the 
things he does are right or wrong and the acts of a 
good or a bad man. For according to your argument 
all the demigods would be bad who died at Troy, 
including the son of Thetis, who so despised danger, 
in comparison with enduring any disgrace, that when 
his mother (and she was a goddess) said to him, as he 
was eager to slay Hector, something like this, I 
believe, ‘My son, if you avenge the death of your 
friend Patroclus and kill Hector, you yourself shall 
die ; “for straightway,”’ she says, ‘after Hector, 
is death appointed unto thee”’ ;} he, when he heard 
this, made light of death and danger, and feared 
much more to live as a coward and not to avenge his 
friends, and ‘Straightway,’ said he, ‘may I die,” after 
doing vengeance upon the wrongdoer, that I may not 
stay here, jeered at beside the curved ships, a burden 
of the earth.’? Do you think he considered death 
and danger?” 

For thus it is, men of Athens, in truth; wherever 
a man stations himself, thinking it is best to be 
there, or is stationed by <his commander, there he 
must, as it seems to me, remain and run his risks, 
considering neither death nor any other thing more 
than disgrace. 

So I should have done a terrible thing, if, when 
the commanders whom you chose to command me 
stationed me, both at Potidaea and at Amphipolis and 
at Delium, I remained where they stationed me, 


1 Homer, Iliad, xviii, 96. 2 Homer, Iliad, xviii, 98. 
Homer, Iliad, xviii, 104. 


105 


29 


PLATO 


4 A Μ Μ σ \ Ν \ 
ἐκεῖνοι ἔταττον ἔμενον ὥσπερ καὶ ἄλλος TIS Kal 
ἐκινδύνευον ἀποθανεῖν, τοῦ δὲ θεοῦ τάττοντος, ὡς 
3 \ Se \ € ΄ wn , 
ἐγὼ φήθην τε καὶ ὑπέλαβον, φιλοσοφοῦντά με 
a) an XN 
δεῖν ζῆν καὶ ἐξετάζοντα ἐμαυτὸν καὶ τοὺς ἄλλους, 
ἐνταῦθα δὲ φοβηθεὶς ἢ θάνατον ἢ ἄλλο ὁτιοῦν 
n / 
πρᾶγμα λίποιμι τὴν τάξιν. δεινὸν τἂν εἴη, καὶ ὡς 
- ’, 
ἀληθῶς τότ᾽ ἄν με δικαίως εἰσάγοι τις εἰς δικα- 
\ > A a 
στήριον, ὅτε οὐ νομίζω θεοὺς εἶναι ἀπειθῶν τῇ 
\ Ν , 
μαντείᾳ καὶ δεδιὼς θάνατον καὶ οἰόμενος σοφὸς 
εἶναι οὐκ ὦν. τὸ γάρ τοι θάνατον δεδιέναι, ὦ 
» > \ ΜΝ ? \ a an A s 
ἄνδρες, οὐδὲν ἄλλο ἐστὶν ἢ δοκεῖν σοφὸν εἶναι 
μὴ ὄντα' δοκεῖν γὰρ εἰδέναι ἐστὶν ἃ οὐκ οἶδεν. 
s \ \ » \ Ἁ ’ἤ 20.» ᾽ 
οἷδε μὲν γὰρ οὐδεὶς τὸν θάνατον οὐδ᾽ εἰ 
΄-“ ΄ - 
τυγχάνει τῷ ἀνθρώπῳ πάντων μέγιστον ὃν τῶν 
fal , lal 
ἀγαθῶν, δεδίασι δ᾽ ws εὖ εἰδότες ὅτι μέγιστον τῶν 
κακῶν ἐστι. καὶ τοῦτο πῶς οὐκ ἀμαθία ἐστὶν 
“ ξ } id e fa] v γ7 ἡ a > 
αὕτη ἡ ἐπονείδιστος, ἡ τοῦ οἴεσθαι εἰδέναι ἃ οὐκ 
3 > \ > 2 ΝΜ fd > “ Μ 
οἶδεν; ἐγὼ δ᾽, ὦ ἄνδρες, τούτῳ καὶ ἐνταῦθα ἴσως 
, A al 2 , > J 
διαφέρω τῶν πολλῶν ἀνθρώπων, Kal εἰ δή τῳ 
, , ¥ [ὦ 
σοφώτερός του φαίην εἶναι, τούτῳ ἄν, ὅτι οὐκ 
A a / 
εἰδὼς ἱκανῶς περὶ τῶν ἐν “Αἰδου οὕτω Kal οἴομαι 
> 30 Ἀ A 2 a \ 3 A n 
οὐκ εἰδέναι" τὸ δὲ ἀδικεῖν καὶ ἀπειθεῖν TH βελ- 
/ A / ef \ \ / 
τίονι, καὶ θεῷ καὶ ἀνθρώπῳ, ὅτι κακὸν καὶ αἰσχρόν 
x a 2 “ 
ἐστιν οἶδα. πρὸ οὖν τῶν κακῶν, ὧν οἶδα ὅτι 
Ἁ > 
κακά ἐστιν, ἃ μὴ olda εἰ ἀγαθὰ ὄντα τυγχάνει 
ιν ’, 2O\ 3, σ »Ὸ» » 
οὐδέποτε φοβήσομαι οὐδὲ φεύξομαι: ὥστε οὐδ᾽ εἴ 
a a > a 
με viv ὑμεῖς ἀφίετε ᾿Ανύτῳ ἀπιστήσαντες, ὃς ἔφη 
ἢ τὴν ἀρχὴν οὐ δεῖν ἐμὲ δεῦρο εἰσελθεῖν ἤ, ἐπειδὴ 
“ A a [4 
εἰσῆλθον, οὐχ οἷόν τ᾽ εἶναι τὸ μὴ ἀποκτεῖναί με, 
a ’ » A 
λέγων πρὸς ὑμᾶς ὡς, εἰ διαφευξοίμην, ἤδη av 
ὑμῶν οἱ υἱεῖς ἐπιτηδεύοντες ἃ Σωκράτης διδάσκει 
/ ν Ν 
πάντες παντάπασι διαφθαρήσονται, ---εἰ μοι πρὸς 
106 


THE APOLOGY 


like anybody else, and ran the risk of death, but 
when the god gave me a station, as I believed and 
understood, with orders to spend my life in philosophy 
and in examining myself and others, then I were to 
desert my post through fear of death or anything else 
whatsoever. It would be a terrible thing, and truly 
one might then justly hale me into court, on the 
charge that I do not believe that there are gods, since 
I disobey the oracle and fear death and think I am 
wise when I am not. For to fear death, gentlemen, 
is nothing else than to think one is wise when one is 
not; for it is thinking one knows what one does not 
know. For no one knows whether death be not 
even the greatest of all blessings to man, but they 
fear it as if they knew that it is the greatest of evils. 
And is not this the most reprehensible form of 
ignorance, that of thinking one knows what one 
does not know? Perhaps, gentlemen, in this matter 
also I differ from other men in this way, and if I 
were to say that I am wiser in anything, it would be 
in this, that not knowing very much about the other 
world, I do not think I know. But I do know that 
it is evil and disgraceful to do wrong and to disobey 
him who is better than I, whether he be god or man. 
So I shall never fear or avoid those things concerning 
which I do not know whether they are good or bad 
rather than those which I know are bad. And there- 
fore, even if you acquit me now and are not convinced 
by Anytus, who said that either I ought not to have 
been brought to trial at all, or since I was brought to 
trial, I must certainly be put to death, adding that 
if I were acquitted your sons would all be utterly 
ruined by practising what I teach—if you should say 


107 


30 


PLATO 


ταῦτα εἴποιτε" ὦ Σώκρατες, νῦν μὲν ᾿Ανύτῳ οὐ 
πεισόμεθα, ἀλλ᾽ ἀφίεμέν σε, ἐπὶ τούτῳ μέντοι, 
ἐφ᾽ ᾧτε μηκέτι ἐν ταύτῃ τῇ ξητήσει διατρίβειν 
μηδὲ φιλοσοφεῖν" ἐὰν δὲ ἁλῷς ἔτι τοῦτο πράττων, 
ἀποθανεῖ: εἰ οὖν με, ὅπερ εἶπον, ἐπὶ τούτοις 
ἀφίοιτε, εἴποιμ᾽ ἂν ὑμῖν ὅτι ἐγὼ ὑμᾶς, ἄνδρες 
᾿Αθηναῖοι, ἀσπάξομαι μὲν καὶ φιλῶ, πείσομαι δὲ 
μᾶλλον τῷ θεῷ ἢ ἢ ὑμῖν, κ καὶ ἕωσπερ ἂν ἐμπνέω καὶ 
οἷός τε ὦ, οὐ μὴ παύσωμαι φιλοσοφῶν καὶ ὑμῖν 
παρακελευόμενός τε καὶ ἐνδεικνύμενος ὅτῳ ἃ ἂν ἀεὶ 
ἐντυγχάνω ὑμῶν, λέγων οἷάπερ εἴωθα, ὅτι, ὦ 
ἄριστε ἀνδρῶν, ᾿Αθηναῖος ὦ ὦν, πόλεως τῆς μεγίστης 
καὶ εὐδοκιμωτάτης εἰς σοφίαν καὶ ἰσχύν, χρη- 
μάτων μὲν οὐκ αἰσχύνει ἐπιμελούμενος, ὅπως σοι 
ἔσται ὡς πλεῖστα, καὶ δόξης καὶ L τιμῆς, φρονήσεως 
δὲ καὶ ἀληθείας καὶ τῆς ψυχῆς, ὅπως ὡς βελτίστη 
ἔσται, οὐκ ἐπιμελεῖ οὐδὲ φροντίζεις; καὶ ἐάν τις 
ὑμῶν ἀμφισβητῇ καὶ φῇ ἐπιμελεῖσθαι, οὐκ εὐθὺς 
ἀφήσω αὐτὸν οὐδ᾽ ἄπειμι, GAN ἐρήσομαι αὐτὸν 
καὶ ἐξετάσω καὶ ἐλέγξω, καὶ ἐάν μοι μὴ δοκῇ 
κεκτῆσθαι ἀρετήν, φάναι δέ, ὀνειδιῶ, ὅτι τὰ 
πλείστου ἄξια περὶ ἐλαχίστου ποιεῖται, τὰ δὲ 
φαυλότερα περὶ πλείονος. ταῦτα καὶ ) νεωτέρῳ καὶ 
πρεσβυτέρῳ, ὅ ὅτῳ ἂν ἐντυγχάνω," ποιήσω, καὶ ξένῳ 
καὶ ἀστῷ, μᾶλλον δὲ τοῖς ἀστοῖς, ὅσῳ μου ἐγγυ- 
τέρω ἐστὲ γένει. ταῦτα γὰρ κελεύει ὁ θεός, εὖ 
ἴστε, καὶ ἐγὼ οἴομαι οὐδέν πω ὑμῖν μεῖξον ἀγαθὸν 
γενέσθαι ἐ ἐν τῇ πόλει ἢ τὴν ἐμὴν τῷ θεῷ ὑ ὑπηρεσίαν. 
οὐδὲν γὰρ ἄλλο πράττων ἐγὼ περιέρχομαι ἢ 
πείθων ὑμῶν καὶ νεωτέρους καὶ πρεσβυτέρους 
μήτε σωμάτων ἐπιμελεῖσθαι μήτε “χρημάτων 
πρότερον μηδὲ οὕτω σφόδρα ὡς τῆς ψυχῆς, 


108 


THE APOLOGY 


to me in reply to this : “Socrates, this time we will 
not do as Anytus says, but we will let you go, on this 
condition, however, that you no longer spend your 
time in this investigation or in philosophy, and if you 
are caught doing so again you shall die’; if you 
should let me go on this condition which I have 
mentioned, I should say to you, “ Men of Athens, I 
respect and love you, but I shall obey the god rather 
than you, and while I live and am able to continue, 
I shall never give up philosophy or stop exhorting 
you and pointing out the truth to any one of you 
whom I may meet, saying in my accustomed way: 
“ Most excellent man, are you who are a citizen of 
Athens, the greatest of cities and the most famous 
for wisdom and power, not ashamed to care for the 
acquisition of wealth and for reputation and honour, 
when you neither care nor take thought for wisdom 
and truth and the perfection of your soul?’’ Andif 
any of you argues the point, and says he does care, I 
shall not let him go at once, nor shall I go away, but 
I shall question and examine and cross-examine him, 
and if I find that he does not possess virtue, but says 
he does, I shall rebuke him for scorning the things 
that are of most importance and caring more for 
what is of less worth. This I shall do to whomever 
I meet, young and old, foreigner and citizen, but 
most to the citizens, inasmuch as you are more 
nearly related to me. For know that the god 
commands me to do this, and I believe that no 
greater good ever came to pass in the city than my 
service to the god. For I go about doing nothing 
else than urging you, young and old, not to care for 
your persons or your property more than for the 
perfection of your souls, or even so much; and I tell 


109 


PLATO 


ὅπως ὡς ἀρίστη ἔσται, λέγων, ὅτε οὐκ ἐκ 
χρημάτων ἀρετὴ γίγνεται, ἀλλ᾽ ἐξ ἀρετῆς 
χρήματα καὶ τὰ ἄλλα ἀγαθὰ τοῖς ἀνθρώποις 
ἅπαντα καὶ ἰδίᾳ καὶ δημοσίᾳ. εἰ μὲν οὖν ταῦτα 
λέγων διαφθείρω τοὺς νέους, ταῦτ᾽ ἂν εἴη βλαβερά' 
εἰ δέ τίς μέ φησιν ἄλλα λέγειν ἢ ταῦτα, οὐδὲν 
λέγει. πρὸς ταῦτα, φαίην ἄν, ὦ ᾿Αθηναῖοι, ἢ 
πείθεσθε ᾿Ανύτῳ ἢ μή, καὶ ἢ ἀφίετε ἢ μὴ ἀφίετε, 
ὡς ἐμοῦ οὐκ ἂν ποιήσοντος ἄλλα, οὐδ᾽ εἰ μέλλω 
πολλάκις τεθνάναι. 

18. Μὴ θορυβεῖτε, ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, ἀλλ᾽ 
ἐμμείνατέ μοι οἷς ἐδεήθην ὑμῶν, μὴ θορυβεῖν ἐφ᾽ 
οἷς ἂν λέγω, ἀλλ᾽ ἀκούειν: καὶ γάρ, ὡς ἐγὼ οἶμαι, 
ὀνήσεσθε ἀκούοντες. μέλλω γὰρ οὖν ἄττα ὑμῖν 
ἐρεῖν καὶ ἄλλα, ἐφ᾽ οἷς ἴσως βοήσεσθε. ἀλλὰ 
μηδαμῶς ποιεῖτε τοῦτο. εὖ γὰρ ἴστε, ἐὰν ἐμὲ 

ἀποκτείνητε τοιοῦτον. ὄντα, οἷον ἐγὼ λέγω, οὐκ 
ἐμὲ μείζω βλάψετε ἢ ὑμᾶς αὐτούς" ἐμὲ μὲν γὰρ 
οὐδὲν ἃ ἂν βλάψειεν οὔτε Μέλητος οὔτε ᾿Ανυτος" 
οὐδὲ γὰρ ἂν δύναιτο' οὐ γὰρ οἴομαι θεμιτὸν εἶναι 
ἀμείνονι ἀνδρὶ ὑπὸ χείρονος βλάπτεσθαι. ἀπο- 
κτείνειε μέντ᾽ ἂν ἴσως ἢ ἐξελάσειεν ἢ ἢ ἀτιμώσειεν' 
ἀλλὰ ταῦτα οὗτος μὲν ἴσως οἴεται καὶ ἄλλος τίς 
που μεγάλα κακᾶ, ἐγὼ δ᾽ οὐκ οἴομαι, ἀλλὰ πολὺ 
μᾶλλον ποιεῖν ἃ οὗτος νυνὶ ποιεῖ, ἄνδρα ἀδίκως 
ἐπιχειρεῖν ἀποκτιννύναι. νῦν οὖν, ὦ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθη- 
ναῖοι, πολλοῦ δέω ἐγὼ ὑπὲρ ἐμαυτοῦ ἀπολογεῖσθαι, 
ὥς τις ἂν οἴοιτο, ἀλλὰ ὑ ὑπὲρ ὑμῶν, μή τι ἐξαμάρ- 
τητε περὶ τὴν τοῦ θεοῦ δόσιν ὑμῖν ἐμοῦ καταψή- 
φισάμενοι. ἐὰν γὰρ ἐμὲ ἀποκτείνητε, οὐ ῥᾳδίως 
ἄλλον τοιοῦτον εὑρήσετε, ἀτεχνῶς, εἰ καὶ γελοιό- 


110 


THE APOLOGY 


you that virtue does not come from money, but from 
virtue comes money and all other good things to 
man, both to the individual and to the state. If by 
saying these things I corrupt the youth, these things 
must be injurious; but if anyone asserts that I say 
other things than these, he says what is untrue. 
Therefore I say to you, men of Athens, either do 
as Anytus tells you, or not, and either acquit me, or 
not, knowing that I shall not change my conduct 
even if I am to die many times over. 

Do not make a disturbance, men of Athens; 
continue to do what I asked of you, not to interrupt 
my speech by disturbances, but to hear me; and I 
believe you will profit by hearing. Now I am going 
to say some things to you at which you will perhaps 
cry out ; but do not do so by any.means. For know 
that if you kill me, I being such a man as I say I am, 
you will not injure me so much as yourselves; for 
neither Meletus nor Anytus could injure me; that 
would be impossible, for I believe it is not God’s will 
that a better man be injured by a worse. He might, 
however, perhaps kill me or banish me or disfranchise 
me; and perhaps he thinks he would thus inflict 
great injuries upon me, and others may think so, but 
I do not; I think he does himself a much greater 
injury by doing what he is doing now—killing a man 
unjustly. And so, men of Athens, I am now making 
my defence not for my own sake, as one might 
imagine, but far more for yours, that you may not by 
condemning me err in your treatment of the gift the 
God gave you. For if you put me to death, you will 
not easily find another, who, to use a rather absurd 


111 


3] 


PLATO 


τερον εἰπεῖν, προσκείμενον TH πόλει, ὥσπερ 
ἵππῳ μεγάλῳ μὲν καὶ γενναίῳ, ὑπὸ μεγέθους δὲ 
νωθεστέρῳ καὶ δεομένῳ ἐγείρεσθαι ὑπὸ μύωπός 
τινος" οἷον δή μοι δοκεῖ ὁ θεὸς ἐμὲ τῇ πόλει 
προστεθεικέναι τοιοῦτόν τινα, ὃς ὑμᾶς ἐγείρων 
καὶ πείθων καὶ ὀνειδίζων ἕνα ἕκαστον οὐδὲν 
παύομαι τὴν ἡμέραν ὅλην πανταχοῦ προσκαθίξων. 
τοιοῦτος οὖν ἄχλος οὐ ῥᾳδίως ὑμῖν γενήσεται, ὦ 
ἄνδρες, ἀλλ᾽ ἐὰν ἐμοὶ πείθησθε, φείσεσθέ μου" 
ὑμεῖς δ᾽ ἴσως τάχ᾽ ἂν ἀχθόμενοι, ὥσπερ οἱ νυστά- 
ζοντες ἐγειρόμενοι, κρούσαντες ἄν με, πειθόμενοι 
᾿Ανύτῳ, ῥᾳδίως ἂν ἀποκτείναιτε, εἶτα τὸν λοιπὸν 
βίον καθεύδοντες διατελοῖτε ἄν, εἰ μή τινα ἄλλον 
ὁ θεὸς ὑ ὑμῖν ἐπιπέμψειεν κηδόμενος ὑμῶν. ὅτι δ᾽ 
ἐγὼ τυγχάνω ὧν τοιοῦτος, οἷος ὑπὸ τοῦ θεοῦ τῇ 
πόλει δεδόσθαι, ἐνθένδε ἂν κατανοήσαιτε' οὐ γὰρ 
ἀνθρωπίνῳ ἔ ἔοικε τὸ ἐμὲ τῶν μὲν ἐμαυτοῦ ἁπάντων 
ἠμεληκέναι καὶ ἀνέχεσθαι τῶν οἰκείων ἀμελου- 
μένων τοσαῦτα ἤδη ἔτη, τὸ δὲ ὑμέτερον πράττειν 
ἀεί, ἰδίᾳ ἑκάστῳ προσιόντα ὥσπερ πατέρα ἢ 
ἀδελφὸν πρεσβύτερον, πείθοντα ἐπιμελεῖσθαι 
ἀρετῆς. καὶ εἰ μέν τι ἀπὸ τούτων ἀπέλανον καὶ 
μισθὸν λαμβάνων ταῦτα παρεκελευόμην, εἶχεν ὃ 

ἄν τινᾶ λόγον' νῦν δὲ ὁρᾶτε δὴ καὶ αὐτοί, ὅτε οἱ 
κατήγοροι τἄλλα πάντα ἀναισχύντως οὕτω κατη- 
γοροῦντες τοῦτό γε οὐχ οἷοί τε ἐγένοντο ἀπ- 
αναισχυντῆσαι παρασχόμενοι μάρτυρα, ὡς ἐγώ 
ποτέ τινα ἢ ἐπραξάμην μισθὸν ἢ ἤτησα. ἱκανὸν 


} The MSS. give ὑπὸ τοῦ θεοῦ, ‘‘ by the god,” after πόλει. 
Schanz, following Hirschig, brackets it. 

3 Schanz, with some inferior MS. authority, reads εἶχεν for 
εἶχον of the best MSS. 


112 


THE APOLOGY 


figure, attaches himself to the city as a gadfly to a 
horse, which, though large and well bred, is sluggish 
on account of his size and needs to be aroused by 
stinging. I think the god fastened me upon the 
city in some such capacity, and I go about arousing, 
and urging and reproaching each one of you, con- 
stantly alighting upon you everywhere the whole 
day long. Such another is not likely to come to you, 
gentlemen; but if you take my advice, you will spare 
me. But you, perhaps, might be angry, like people 
awakened from a nap, and might slap me, as Anytus 
advises, and easily kill me; then you would pass 
the rest of your lives in slumber, unless God, in 
his care for you, should send someone else to 
sting you. And that I am, as I say, a kind of gift 
from the god, you might understand from this; for 
I have neglected all my own affairs and have been 
enduring the neglect of my concerns all these years, 
but I am always busy in your interest, coming to each 
one of you individually like a father or an elder 
brother and urging you to care for virtue; now that 
is not like human conduct. If I derived any profit 
from this and received pay for these exhortations, 
there would be some sense in it; but now you your- 
selves see that my accusers, though they accuse me 
of everything else in such a shameless way, have not 
been able to work themselves up to such a pitch of 
shamelessness as to produce a witness to testify that 
I ever exacted or asked pay of anyone. For 1 think 


113 


PLATO 


γάρ, οἶμαι, ἐγὼ παρέχομαι τὸν μάρτυρα, ὡς ἀληθῆ 
λέγω, τὴν πενίαν. 

19. Ἴσως ἂν οὖν δόξειεν ἄτοπον εἶναι, ὅτι δὴ 
ἐγὼ ἰδίᾳ μὲν ταῦτα ξυμβουλεύω περιιὼν καὶ 
πολυπραγμονῶ, δημοσίᾳ δὲ οὐ τολμῶ ἀναβαίνων 
εἰς τὸ πλῆθος τὸ ὑμέτερον. ξυμβουλεύειν τῇ πόλει. 
τούτου δὲ αἴτιόν ἐστιν ὃ ὑμεῖς ἐμοῦ πολλάκις 
ἀκηκόατε πολλαχοῦ λέγοντος, ὅτι μοι θεῖόν τι καὶ 
δαιμόνιον γίγνεται, ὃ ὃ δὴ καὶ ἐν τῇ γραφῇ. ἐπικω- 
μῳδῶν Μέλητος ἐγράψατο' ἐμοὶ δὲ τοῦτ᾽ ἔστιν 
ἐκ παιδὸς ἀρξάμενον φωνή τις γιγνομένη, ἣ ὅταν 
γένηται, ἀεὶ ἀποτρέπει με τοῦτο ὃ ἂν μέλλω 
πράττειν, προτρέπει δὲ οὔποτε" τοῦτ᾽ ἔστιν ὅ μοι 
ἐναντιοῦται τὰ πολιτικὰ πράττειν. καὶ παγκάλως 
γέ μοι δοκεῖ ἐναντιοῦσθαι" εὖ γὰρ ἴστε, ὦ ἄνδρες 
᾿Αθηναῖοι, εἰ ἐγὼ ἐπεχείρησα πράττειν τὰ πολε- 
τικὰ πράγματα, πάλαι ἂν ἀπολώλη καὶ οὔτ᾽ 
ἂν ὑμᾶς ὠφελήκη οὐδὲν οὔτ᾽ ἂν ἐμαυτόν. καί μοι 
μὴ ἄχθεσθε λέγοντι τἀληθῆ: οὐ γὰρ ἔστιν ὅστις 
ἀνθρώπων σωθήσεται οὔτε ὑμῖν οὔτε ἄλλῳ πλήθει 
οὐδενὶ γνησίως ἐναντιούμενος καὶ διακωλύων 
πολλὰ ἄδικα καὶ “παράνομα ἐν τῇ πόλει γίγνεσθαι, 
ἀλλ᾽ ἀναγκαῖόν ἐστι τὸν τῷ ὄντι μαχούμενον ὑπὲ 
τοῦ δικαίον, καὶ εἰ μέλλει ὀλύγον χρόνον σωθη- 
σεσθαι, ἰδιωτεύειν ἀλλὰ μὴ δημοσιεύειν. 

20. Μεγάλα δ᾽ ἔγωγε ὑμῖν τεκμήρια παρέξομαι 
τούτων, οὐ λόγους, ἀλλ᾽ ὃ ὑμεῖς τιμᾶτε, ἔργα. 
ἀκούσατε δή μου τὰ ἐμοὶ ξυμβεβηκότα, ἵ ἵνα εἰδῆτε, 
ὅτι οὐδ᾽ ἂν ἑνὶ ὑπεικάθοιμι “παρὰ τὸ δίκαιον δείσας 
θάνατον, μὴ ὑπείκων δὲ ἅμ᾽ ἂν καὶ ἀπολοίμην. 


1 The MSS. read φωνή, ‘‘ voice,” after γίγνεται, Schanz, 
following others, omits it. 


114 


THE APOLOGY 


I have a sufficient witness that I speak the truth, 
namely, my poverty. 

Perhaps it may seem strange that I go about and 
interfere in other people's affairs to give this advice 
in private, but do not venture to come before your 
assembly and advise the state. But the reason for 
this, as you have heard me say at many times and 
places, is that something divine and spiritual comes 
to me, the very thing which Meletus ridiculed in his 
indictment. I have had this from my childhood; it 
is a sort of voice that comes to me, and when it 
comes it always holds me back from what I am 
thinking of doing, but never urges me forward. 
This it is which opposes my engaging in politics. 
And 1 think this opposition is a very good thing ; for 
you may be quite sure, men of Athens, that if I had 
undertaken to go into politics, I should have been 
put to death long ago and should have done no good 
to you or to myself. And do not be angry with me 
for speaking the truth; the fact is that no man will 
save his life who nobly opposes you or any other 
populace and prevents many unjust and illegal things 
from happening in the state. A man who really 
fights for the right, if he is to preserve his life for 
even a little while, must be a private citizen, not 
a public man. 

I will give you powerful proofs of this, not mere 
words, but what you honour more,—actions. And 
listen to what happened to me, that you may be 
convinced that 1 would never yield to any one, if 
that was wrong, through fear of death, but would 
die rather than yield. The tale I am going to tell 


[15 


PLATO 


ἐρῶ δὲ ὑ ὑμῖν φορτικὰ μὲν καὶ δικανικά, ἀληθῆ δέ. 
ἐγὼ γάρ, ὦ ᾿Αθηναῖοι, ἄλλην μὲν ἀρχὴν οὐδεμίαν 
πώποτε ἦρξα ἐν τῇ πόλει, ἐβούλευσα δέ" καὶ 
ἔτυχεν ἡμῶν ἡ φυλὴ πρυτανεύουσα, ὅτε ὑμεῖς 
τοὺς δέκα στρατηγοὺς τοὺς οὐκ ἀνελομένους τοὺς 
ἐκ τῆς ναυμαχίας ἐβούλεσθε ἁθρόους κρίνειν, 
παρανόμως ὡς ἐν τῷ ὑστέρῳ χρόνῳ πᾶσιν ὑμῖν 
ἔδοξε. τότ᾽ ἐγὼ μόνος τῶν πρυτάνεων ἠναντιώθην 
ὑμῖν μηδὲν ποιεῖν παρὰ τοὺς νόμους" καὶ ἑτοί- 
μων ὄντων ἐνδεικνύναι με καὶ ἀπάγειν τῶν ῥη- 
τόρων, καὶ ὑμῶν κελευόντων καὶ βοώντων, μετὰ 
τοῦ νόμου καὶ τοῦ δικαίου ὥμην μᾶλλόν με δεῖν 
διακινδυνεύειν ἢ μεθ᾽ ὑμῶν γενέσθαι μὴ δίκαια 
βουλευομένων, φοβηθέντα δεσμὸν ἢ θάνατον. καὶ 
ταῦτα μὲν ἦν ἔτι δημοκρατουμένης τῆς πόλεως" 
ἐπειδὴ δὲ ὀλιγαρχία ἐγένετο, οἱ τριάκοντα αὖ 
μεταπεμψάμενοί με πέμπτον αὐτὸν εἰς τὴν θόλον 
προσέταξαν ἀγαγεῖν ἐκ Σαλαμῖνος Λέοντα τὸν 
Σαλαμίνιον, ἵνα ἀποθάνοι" οἷα δὴ καὶ ἄλλοις 
ἐκεῖνοι πολλοῖς πολλὰ προσέταττον, βουλόμενοι 
ὡς πλείστους ἀναπλῆσαι: αἰτιῶν: τότε μέντοι 
ἐγὼ οὐ λόγῳ ἀλλ᾽ ἔργῳ αὖ ἐνεδειξάμην, ὅ ὅτι ἐμοὶ 
θανάτου μὲν μέλει, εἰ μὴ ἀγροικότερον ἦν εἰπεῖν, 
οὐδ᾽ ὁτιοῦν, τοῦ δὲ μηδὲν ἄδικον μηδ᾽ ἀνόσιον ἐργά- 
ξεσθαι, τούτου δὲ τὸ πᾶν μέλει. ἐμὲ γὰρ ἐκείνη ἡ 
ἀρχὴ οὐκ ἐξέπληξεν οὕτως ἰσχυρὰ οὖσα, ὥστε 
ἄδικόν τι ἐργάσασθαι, ἀλλ᾽ ἐπειδὴ ἐκ τῆς θόλου 
ἐξήλθομεν, οἱ μὲν τέτταρες @XOVTO εἰς Σαλαμῖνα 
καὶ ἤγαγον Λέοντα, ἐγὼ δὲ ὠχόμην ἀπιὼν οἴκαδε. 
καὶ ἴσως ἂν διὰ ταῦτα ἀπέθανον, εἰ μὴ ἡ ἀρχὴ 


1 Schanz, ed Hermann, brackets καὶ ἐναντία ἐψη- 
φισάμην, “Δα I voted against it,” which the MSS. give after 


116 


THE APOLOGY 


you is ordinary and commonplace, but true. I, men 
of Athens, never held any other office in the state, 
but I was a senator; and it happened that my tribe 
held the presidency when you wished to judge col- 
lectively, not severally, the ten generals who had 
failed to gather up the slain after the naval battle; 
this was illegal, as you all agreed afterwards. At that 
time I was the only one of the prytanes who opposed 
doing anything contrary to the laws, and although 
the orators were ready to impeach and arrest me, and 
though you urged them with shouts to do s0, I 
thought I must run the risk to the end with law and 
justice on my side, rather than join with you when 
your wishes were unjust, through fear of imprison- 
ment or death. That was when the democracy still 
existed ; and after the oligarchy was established, the 
Thirty sent for me with four others to come to the 
rotunda and ordered us to bring Leon the Salaminian 
from Salamis to be put to death. They gave many 
such orders to others also, because they wished to 
implicate as many in their crimes as they could. 
Then I, however, showed again, by action, not in 
word only, that I did not care a whit for death if 
that be not too rude an expression, but that I did 
care with all my might not to do anything unjust or 
unholy. For that government, with all its power, 
did not frighten me into doing anything unjust, but 
when we came out of the rotunda, the other four 
went to Salamis and arrested Leon, but I simply 
went home; and perhaps I should have been put to 
death for it, if the government had not quickly been 


νόμους. Xenophon, Mem. iv. 4. 2, states that Socrates, as 
presiding officer, refused to put the question to vote. 


117 


E 


33 


PLATO 


διὰ ταχέων κατελύθη" καὶ τούτων ὑμῖν ἔσονται 
πολλοὶ μάρτυρες. 

97. "Ap οὖν ἄν με οἴεσθε τοσάδε ἔτη διαγε- 
νέσθαι, εἰ ἔπραττον τὰ δημόσια, καὶ πράττων 
ἀξίως ἀνδρὸς ἀγαθοῦ ἐβοήθουν τοῖς δικαίοις καί, 
ὥσπερ χρή, τοῦτο περὶ πλείστου ἐποιούμην; 
πολλοῦ γε δεῖ, ὦ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι. οὐδὲ γὰρ ἂν 
ἄλλος ἀνθρώπων οὐδείς. ἀλλ᾽ ἐγὼ διὰ παντὸς 
τοῦ βίου δημοσίᾳ τε, εἴ πού τι ἔπραξα, τοιοῦτος 
φανοῦμαι, καὶ ἰδίᾳ ὁ αὐτὸς οὗτος, οὐδενὶ πώποτε 
ξυγχωρήσας οὐδὲν παρὰ τὸ δίκαιον οὔτε ἄλλῳ 
οὔτε τούτων οὐδενί, οὗς οἱ i διαβάλλοντες ἐ ἐμέ φασιν 
ἐμοὺς μαθητὰς εἶναι. ἐγὼ δὲ διδάσκαλος μὲν 
οὐδενὸς πώποτ᾽ ἐγενόμην" εἰ δέ τίς μου λέγοντος 
καὶ τὰ ἐμαυτοῦ πράττοντος ἐπιθυμεῖ ἀκούειν, εἴτε 
νεώτερος εἴτε πρεσβύτερος, οὐδενὶ πώποτε ἐφθό- 
νῆσα, οὐδὲ χρήματα μὲν λαμβάνων διαλέγομαι 
μὴ λαμβάνων δὲ οὔ, ἀλλ᾽ ὁμοίως καὶ πλουσίῳ 
καὶ πένητι παρέχω ἐμαυτὸν ἐρωτᾶν, καὶ ἐάν τις 
βούληται ἀποκρινόμενος ἀκούειν ὧν ἂν λέγω. 
καὶ τούτων ἐγὼ εἴτε. τις ἡστὸς γίγνεται εἴτε 
μή, οὐκ ἂν δικαίως τὴν αἰτίαν ὑπέχοιμι, ὧν μήτε 
ὑπεσχόμην μηδενὶ μηδὲν πώποτε μάθημα μήτε 
ἐδίδαξα" εἰ δέ τίς φησι παρ᾽ ἐμοῦ πώποτέ τι 
μαθεῖν ἢ ἢ. ἀκοῦσαι ἰδίᾳ ὅ τι μὴ καὶ οἱ ἄλλοι πάντες, 
εὖ ἴστε, ὅτι οὐκ ἀληθῆ λέγει. 

22. ᾿Αλλὰ διὰ τί δή ποτε μετ᾽ ἐμοῦ χαίρουσί 
τινες πολὺν χρόνον διατρίβοντες; ἀκηκόατε, ὦ 
ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι" πᾶσαν ὑμῖν τὴν ἀλήθειαν ἐγὼ 
εἶπον' ὅτι ἀκούοντες χαίρουσιν ἐξεταξομένοις τοῖς 
οἰομένοις μὲν εἶναι σοφοῖς, οὖσι δ᾽ οὔ" ἔστι γὰρ οὐκ 
ἀηδές. ἐμοὶ δὲ τοῦτο, ὡς ἐγώ φημι, προστέτακται 
118 


THE APOLOGY 


put down. Of these facts you can have many 
witnesses. 

Do you believe that I could have lived so many 
years if I had been in public life and had acted as a 
good man should act, lending my aid to what is just 
and considering that of the highest importance? 
Far from it, men of Athens; nor could any other 
man. But you will find that through all my life, both 
in public, if I engaged in any public activity, and 
in private, I have always been the same as now, and 
have never yielded to any one wrongly, whether it 
were any other person or any of those who are said 
by my traducers to be my pupils. But I was never 
any one’s teacher. If any one, whether young or 
old, wishes to hear me speaking and pursuing my 
mission, I have never objected, nor do I converse 
only when I am paid and not otherwise, but I offer 
myself alike to rich and poor; I ask questions, and 
whoever wishes may answer and hear what I say. 
And whether any of them turns out well or ill, I 
should not justly be held responsible, since I never 
promised or gave any instruction to any of them; 
but if any man says that he ever learned or heard 
anything privately from me, which all the others did 
not, be assured that he is lying. 

But why then do some people love to spend 
much of their time with me? You have heard 
the reason, men of Athens; for I told you the 
whole truth ; it is because they like to jisten when 
those are examined who think they are wise and 
are not so; for it is amusing. But, as I believe, I 


119 


84 


PLATO 


ὑπὸ τοῦ θεοῦ mpatteiv καὶ ἐκ μαντείων καὶ ἐξ 
ἐνυπνίων καὶ παντὶ τρόπῳ, ᾧπέρ τίς ποτε καὶ 
ἄλλη θεία μοῖρα ἀνθρώπῳ καὶ ὁτιοῦν προσέταξε 
πράττειν. ταῦτα, ὦ ᾿Αθηναῖοι, καὶ ἀληθῆ ἐστιν 
καὶ εὐέλεγκτα. εἰ “γὰρ δὴ ἔγωγε τῶν νέων τοὺς 
μὲν διαφθείρω, τοὺς δὲ διέφθαρκα, χρῆν δήπου, 
εἴτε τινὲς αὐτῶν πρεσβύτεροι γενόμενοι ἔγνωσαν 
ὅτι νέοις οὖσιν αὐτοῖς ἐγὼ κακὸν πώποτέ τι 
ξυνεβούλευσα, νυνὶ αὐτοὺς ἀναβαίνοντας ἐμοῦ 
κατηγορεῖν καὶ τιμωρεῖσθαι" εἰ δὲ μὴ αὐτοὶ ἤθελον, 
τῶν οἰκείων τινὰς τῶν ἐκείνων, πατέρας καὶ ἀδελ- 
φοὺς καὶ ἄλλους τοὺς προσήκοντας, εἴπερ ὑπ᾽ 
ἐμοῦ τι κακὸν ἐπεπόνθεσαν αὐτῶν οἱ οἰκεῖοι, νῦν 
μεμνῆσθαι." «πάντως δὲ πάρεισιν αὐτῶν πολλοὶ 
ἐνταυθοῖ, ods ἐγὼ ὁρῶ, πρῶτον μὲν Κρίτων 
οὑτοσί, ἐμὸς ἡλικιώτης καὶ δημότης, Κριτοβούλου 
τοῦδε πατήρ, ἔπειτα Λυσανίας ὃ Σφήττιος, Αἰ- 
σχίνου τοῦδε πατήρ, ἔτι ᾿Αντιφῶν 0 Κηφισιεὺς 
οὑτοσί, ᾿Επιγένους πατήρ' ἄλλοι τοίνυν οὗτοι, 
ὧν οἱ ἀδελφοὶ ἐν ταύτῃ τῇ διατριβῇ γεγόνασιν, 
Νικόστρατος ὁ Θεοζοτίδου, ἀδελφὸς Θεοδότου--- 
καὶ ὁ μὲν Θεόδοτος τετελεύτηκεν, ὥστε οὐκ ἂν 
ἐκεῖνός ye αὐτοῦ καταδεηθείη--- καὶ ἸΠάραλος 
ὅδε ὁ Δημοδόκου, οὗ ἦν Ocayns ἀδελφός. ὅδε δὲ 
᾿Αδείμαντος ὁ ᾿Αρίστωνος, οὗ ἀδελφὸς οὑτοσὶ 
Πλάτων, καὶ Αἰαντόδωρος, οὗ ᾿Απολλόδωρος. ὅδε 
ἀδελφός. καὶ ἄλλους πολλοὺς ἐγὼ ἔχω ὑμῖν 
εἰπεῖν, ὧν τινα ἐχρῆν μάλιστα μὲν ἐν τῷ 
ἑαυτοῦ λόγῳ παρασχέσθαι Μέλητον μάρτυρα" εἰ 


1 After μεμνῆσθαι the best MSS. give καὶ τιμωρεῖσθαι, ‘and 
punish.” Schanz follows Bekker and some MSS. in omitting 
these words. 


120 


THE APOLOGY 


have been commanded to do this by the God through 
oracles and dreams and in every way in which any 
man was ever commanded by divine power to do any- 
thing whatsoever. This, Athenians, is true and easily 
tested. For if I am corrupting some of the young 
men and have corrupted others, surely some of them 
who have grown older, if they recognise that I ever 
gave them any bad advice when they were young, 
ought now to have come forward to accuse me. Or if 
they did not wish to do it themselves, some of their 
relatives—fathers or brothers or other kinsfolk— 
ought now to tell the facts. And there are many 
of them present, whom I see; first Crito here, who 
is of my own age and my own deme and father 
of Critobulus, who is also present; then there is 
Lysanias the Sphettian, father of Aeschines, who 
is here; and also Antiphon of Cephisus, father of 
Epigenes. Then here are others whose brothers 
joined in my conversations, Nicostratus, son of 
Theozotides and brother of Theodotus (now Theo- 
dotus is dead, so he could not stop him by 
entreaties), and Paralus, son of Demodocus ; Theages 
was his brother; and Adimantus, son of Aristo, 
whose brother is Plato here; and Aeantodorus, 
whose brother Apollodorus is present. And I can 
mention to you many others, some one of whom 
Meletus ought certainly to have produced as a 
witness in his speech; but if he forgot it then, let 


tar 


PLATO 


δὲ τότε ἐπελάθετο, viv παρασχέσθω, ἐγὼ παρα- 
χωρῶ, καὶ λεγέτω, εἴ τι Exel τοιοῦτον. ἀλλὰ 
τούτου πᾶν τοὐναντίον εὑρήσετε, ὦ ἄνδρες, πάντας 
ἐμοὶ βοηθεῖν ἑτοίμους τῷ διαφθείροντι, τῷ κακὰ 
ἐργαζομένῳ τοὺς οἰκείους αὐτῶν, ὥς φασι Μέ- 
λητος καὶ ἴΑνυτος. αὐτοὶ μὲν γὰρ οἱ διεφθαρ- 
μένοι τάχ᾽ ἂν λόγον ἔχοιεν βοηθοῦντες: οἱ δὲ 
ἀδιάφθαρτοι, πρεσβύτεροι ἤδη ἄνδρες, οἱ τούτων 
προσήκοντες, τίνα ἄλλον ἔχουσι λόγον βοηθοῦντες 
ἐμοὶ ἀλλ᾽ ἢ τὸν ὀρθόν τε καὶ δίκαιον, ὅτι ξυνίσασι 
Μελήτῳ μὲν ψευδομένῳ, ἐμοὶ δὲ ἀληθεύοντι; 

23. Kiev δή, ὦ ἄνδρες" ἃ μὲν ἐγὼ ἔχοιμ᾽ ἂν 
ἀπολογεῖσθαι, σχεδόν ἐστι ταῦτα καὶ ἄλλα ἴσως 
τοιαῦτα. τάχα δ᾽ ἄν τις ὑμῶν ἀγανακτήσειεν 
ἀναμνησθεὶς ἑαυτοῦ, εἰ ὁ μὲν καὶ ἐλάττω τουτουὶ 
τοῦ ἀγῶνος ἀγῶνα ἀγωνιζόμενος ἐδεήθη τε καὶ 
ἱκέτευσε τοὺς δικαστὰς μετὰ πολλῶν δακρύων, 
παιδία τε αὑτοῦ ἀναβιβασάμενος, ἵνα ὅ τι μάλιστα 
ἐλεηθείη, καὶ ἄλλους τῶν οἰκείων καὶ φίλων πολ- 
λούς, ἐγὼ δὲ οὐδὲν ἄρα τούτων ποιήσω, καὶ ταῦτα 
κινδυνεύων, ὡς ἂν δόξαιμι, τὸν ἔσχατον κίνδυνον. 
τάχ᾽ οὖν τις ταῦτα ἐννοήσας. αὐθαδέστερον ἂν 
πρὸς με σχοίη, καὶ ὀργισθεὶς αὐτοῖς τούτοις θεῖτο 
ἂν μετ᾽ ὀργῆς τὴν ψῆφον. εἰ δή τις ὑμῶν οὕτως 
ἔχει,---οὐκ ἀξιῶ μὲν γὰρ ἔγωγε" εἰ δ᾽ οὖν, ἐπιεικῆ 
ἄν Hot δοκῶ πρὸς τοῦτον λέγειν λέγων ὅτι 
ἐμοί, ὦ ἄριστε, εἰσὶν μέν πού τινες καὶ οἰκεῖοι" 
καὶ γὰρ τοῦτο αὐτὸ τὸ τοῦ Ὁ μήρου, οὐδ᾽ ἐγὼ ἀπὸ 
δρυὸς οὐδ᾽ ἀπὸ πέτρης πέφυκα, ἀλλ᾽ ἐξ ἀνθρώπων, 
ὥστε καὶ οἰκεῖοί μοί εἰσι καὶ υἱεῖς, ὦ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθη- 
ναῖοι, τρεῖς, εἷς μὲν μειράκιον ἤδη, δύο δὲ παιδία" 


THE APOLOGY 


him do so now; I yield the floor to him, and let him 
say, if he has any such testimony. But you will 
find that the exact opposite is the case, gentlemen, 
and that they are all ready to aid me, the man who 
corrupts and injures their relatives, as Meletus and 
Anytus say. Now those who are themselves cor- 
rupted might have some motive in aiding me ; but 
what reason could their relatives have, who are not 
corrupted and are already older men, unless it be 
the right and true reason, that they know that 
Meletus is lying and I am speaking the truth? 
Well, gentlemen, this, and perhaps more like 
this, is about all I have to say in my defence. 
Perhaps some one among you may be offended when 
he remembers his own conduct, if he, even in a 
case of less importance than this, begged and besought 
the judges with many tears, and brought forward 
his children to arouse compassion, and many other 
friends and relatives; whereas I will do none of 
these things, though I am, apparently, in the very 
greatest danger. Perhaps some one with these 
thoughts in mind may be harshly disposed toward 
me and may cast his vote in anger. Now if any one 
of you is so disposed—I do not believe there is such 
a person—but if there should be, I think I should 
be speaking fairly if I said to him, My friend, I too 
have relatives, for I am, as Homer has it, “not born 
of an oak or a rock,’ but of human parents, so 
that I have relatives and, men of Athens, I have 
three sons, one nearly grown up, and two still 
1 Homer, Odyssey, xix, 163. 
123 


35 


PLATO 


ἀλλ᾽ ὅμως οὐδένα αὐτῶν δεῦρο ἀναβιβασάμενος 
δεήσομαι ὑ ὑμῶν ἀποψηφίσασθαι. τί δὴ οὖν οὐδὲν 
τούτων “ποιήσω; οὐκ αὐθαδιξόμενος, ὦ ὦ ᾿Αθηναῖοι, 
οὐδ᾽ ὑμᾶς ἀτιμάζων, ἀλλ᾽ εἰ μὲν θαρραλέως ἐγὼ 
ἔχω πρὸς θάνατον ἢ μή, ἄλλος “λόγος, πρὸς δ᾽ 
οὖν δόξαν καὶ ἐμοὶ καὶ ὑμῖν καὶ ὅλῃ τῇ πόλει οὔ 
μοι δοκεῖ καλὸν εἶναι ἐμὲ τούτων οὐδὲν ποιεῖν καὶ 
τηλικόνδε ὄ ὄντα καὶ τοῦτο τοὔνομα ἔχοντα, εἴτ᾽ οὖν 
ἀληθὲς εἴτ᾽ οὖν ψεῦδος" ἀλλ᾽ οὖν δεδογμένον γέ ἐστι 
τῷ Σωκράτει διαφέρειν τινὶ τῶν πολλῶν ἀνθρώπων. 
εἰ οὖν ὑμῶν οἱ δοκοῦντες “διαφέρειν εἴτε σοφίᾳ εἴτε 
ἀνδρείᾳ εἴτε ἄλλῃ ἡτινιοῦν ἀρετῇ τοιοῦτοι ἔσονται, 
αἰσχρὸν ἂν εἴη: οἵουσπερ ἐγὼ πολλάκις ἑώρακά 
τινας, ὅταν κρίνωνται, δοκοῦντας μέν τι εἶναι, 
θαυμάσια δὲ ἐργαζομένους, ὡς δεινόν TL οἰομένους 
πείσεσθαι, εἰ ἀποθανοῦνται, ὥσπε ἀθανάτων 
ἐσομένων, ἂν ὑμεῖς αὐτοὺς μὴ ἀποκτεινητε". of ἐμοὶ 
δοκοῦσιν αἰσχύνην τῇ πόλει περιάπτειν, ὥστ᾽ ἂν 
τινα καὶ τῶν ξένων ,ὑπολαβεῖν ὅ ὅτι οἱ διαφέροντες 
᾿Αθηναίων εἰς ἀρετήν, οὺς αὐτοὶ ἑαυτῶν ἔν Te ταῖς 
ἀρχαῖς καὶ “ταῖς ἄλλαις τιμαῖς προκρίνουσιν, 
οὗτοι γυναικῶν οὐδὲν διαφέρουσι. ταῦτα yap, ὦ ὧ 
ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, οὔτε ἡμᾶς χρὴ ποιεῖν τοὺς 
δοκοῦντας καὶ ὁπῃοῦν τι εἶναι, οὔτ᾽, ἂν ἡμεῖς 
ποιῶμεν, ὑμᾶς ἐπιτρέπειν, ἀλλὰ τοῦτο αὐτὸ ἐνδεί- 
κνυσθαι, ὅτι πολὺ μᾶλλον “καταψηφιεῖσθε τοῦ τὰ 
ἐλεεινὰ ταῦτα δράματα εἰσάγοντος καὶ καταγέ- 
λαστον τὴν πόλιν ποιοῦντος ἢ τοῦ ἡσυχίαν 
ἄγοντος. 

24. Χωρὶς δὲ τῆς δόξης, ὦ ἄνδρες, οὐδὲ δί- 
καιόν μοι δοκεῖ εἶναι δεῖσθαι τοῦ δικαστοῦ οὐδὲ 
δεόμενον ἀποφεύγειν, ἀλλὰ διδάσκειν καὶ πείθειν. 


124 


THE APOLOGY 


children ; but nevertheless I shall not bring any of 
them here and beg you to acquit me. And why 
shall I not do so? Not because I am stubborn, 
Athenians, or lack respect for you. Whether I fear 
death or not is another matter, but for the sake of 
my good name and yours and that of the whole 
state, I think it is not right for me to do any of 
these things in view of my age and my reputation, 
whether deserved or not; for at any rate the 
opinion prevails that Socrates is in some way 
superior to most men. If then those of you who 
are supposed to be superior either in wisdom or in 
courage or in any other virtue whatsoever are to 
behave in such a way, it would be disgraceful. 
Why, I have often seen men who have some 
reputation behaving in the strangest manner, when 
they were on trial, as if they thought they were 
going to suffer something terrible if they were put 
to death, just as if they would be immortal if you 
did not kill them. It seems to me that they area 
disgrace to the state and that any stranger might 
say that those of the Athenians who excel in virtue, 
men whom they themselves honour with offices and 
other marks of esteem, are no better than women. 
Such acts, men of Athens, we who have any reputa- 
tion at all ought not to commit, and if we commit 
them you ought not to allow it, but you should 
make it clear that you will be much more ready to 
condemn a man who puts before you such pitiable 
scenes and makes the city ridiculous than one who 
keeps quiet. 

But apart from the question of reputation, gentle- 
men, I think it is not right to implore the judge or 
to get acquitted by begging; we ought to inform 


125 


PLATO 


4 tal 


ov yap ἐπὶ τούτῳ κάθηται ὁ δικαστής, ἐπὶ τῷ 
καταχαρίξεσθαι, τὰ δίκαια, ἀλλ᾽ ἐπὶ τῷ κρί- 
pew Tata: καὶ ὀμώμοκεν οὐ χα ἐεῖσθαι οἷς ἂν 
δοκῇ αὐτῷ, ἀλλὰ δικάσειν κατὰ τοὺς νόμους. 
οὔκουν χρὴ οὔτε ἡμᾶς ἐθίζειν ὑμᾶς ἐπιορκεῖν 
οὔθ᾽ ὑμᾶς ἐθίξεσθαι: οὐδέτεροι γὰρ ἂν ἡμῶν 
εὐσεβοῖεν. μὴ οὖν ἀξιοῦτέ με, ὦ ἄνδρες 
᾿Αθηναῖοι, τοιαῦτα δεῖν πρὸς ὑμᾶς πράττειν, ἃ 
μήτε ἡγοῦμαι καλὰ εἶναι μήτε δίκαια μήτε ὅσια, 
ἄλλως τε μέντοι νή Δία καὶ ἀσεβείας φεύγοντα 
ὑπὸ Μελήτου TouTovi. σαφῶς yap ἄν, εἰ πείθοιμι 
ὑμᾶς καὶ τῷ δεῖσθαι βιαζοίμην ὀμωμοκότας, 
θεοὺς ἃ ἂν διδάσκοιμι μὴ ἡγεῖσθαι ὑ ὑμᾶς εἶναι, καὶ 
ἀτεχνῶς ἀπολογούμενος κατηγοροίην ἂν ἐμαυτοῦ, 
ὡς θεοὺς οὐ νομίζω. ἀχλὰ πολλοῦ δεῖ οὕτως 
ἔχειν" νομίζω τε γάρ, ὦ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, ὡς 
οὐδεὶς τῶν ἐμῶν κατηγόρων, καὶ ὑμῖν ἐπιτρέπω 
καὶ τῷ θεῷ κρῖναι περὶ ἐμοῦ ὅπῃ μέλλει ἐμοί τε 
ἄριστα εἶναι καὶ ὑμῖν. 


25. To μὲν μὴ ἀγανακτεῖν, ὦ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, 
ἐπὶ τούτῳ τῷ γεγονότι, ὅτι μου κατεψηφίσασθε, 
ἄλλα τέ μοι πολλὰ ξυμβάλλεται, καὶ οὐκ ἀνέλ- 
πιστόν μοι γέγονεν τὸ γεγονὸς ἷ τοῦτο, ἀλλὰ πολὺ 
μᾶλλον θαυμάζω ἑκατέρων τῶν ψήφων τὸν γεγο- 
νότα ἀριθμόν. οὐ γὰρ ὠόμην ἔγωγε οὕτω map 
ὀλίγον ἔσεσθαι, ἀλλὰ παρὰ πολύ' νῦν δέ, ὡς 
ἔοικεν, εἰ τριάκοντα μόναι μετέπεσον τῶν ψήφων, 
ἀποπεφεύγη ἄν. Μέλητον μὲν οὗν, ὡς ἐμοὶ δοκῶ, 
καὶ νῦν ἀποπέφευγα, καὶ οὐ μόνον ἀποπέφευγα, 
ἀλλὰ παντὶ δῆλον τοῦτό γε, ὅτι, εἰ μὴ ἀνέβη 

1 Schanz brackets τὸ yeyovds. 
126 


THE APOLOGY 


and convince him. For the judge is not here to 
grant favours in matters of justice, but to give 
judgment ; and his oath binds him not to do favours 
according to his pleasure, but to judge according to 
the laws; therefore, we ought not to get you into 
the habit of breaking your oaths, nor ought you to 
fall into that habit; for neither of us would be 
acting piously. Do not, therefore, men of Athens, 
demand of me that I act before you in a way which 
I consider neither honourable nor right nor pious, 
especially when impiety is the very thing for which 
Meletus here has brought me to trial. For it is plain 
that if by persuasion and supplication I forced you to 
break your oaths I should teach you to disbelieve in 
the existence of the gods and in making my defence 
should accuse myself of not believing in them. But 
that is far from the truth ; for I do believe in them, 
men of Athens, more than any of my accusers, and I 
entrust my case to you and to God to decide it as 
shall be best for me and for you. 


I am not grieved, men of Athens, at this vote of 
condemnation you have cast against me, and that 
for many reasons, among them the fact that your 
decision was not a surprise to me. [am much more 
surprised by the number of votes for and against it ; 
for I did not expect so small a majority, but a large 
one. Now, it seems, if only thirty votes had been 
cast the other way, I should have been acquitted. 
And so, I think, so far as Meletus is concerned, I have 
even now been acquitted, and not merely acquitted, 
but anyone can see that, if Anytus and Lycon had 


127 


PLATO 


"Avutos καὶ Λύκων κατηγορήσοντες ἐμοῦ, κἂν 
ὦφλε χιλίας δραχμάς, οὐ μεταλαβὼν τὸ πέμπτον 
μέρος τῶν ψήφων. 

26. Τιμᾶται δ᾽ οὖν μοι ὁ ἀνὴρ θανάτου. elev" 
ἐγὼ δὲ δὴ τίνος ὑμῖν ἀντιτιμήσομαι, ὦ ἄνδρες 
᾿Αθηναῖοι; ὴ δῆλον ὅτι τῆς ἀξίας; τί οὖν; τί 
ἄξιός εἰμι παθεῖν ἢ ἢ ἀποτῖσαι, ὅ τι μαθὼν ἐν τῷ 
βίῳ οὐχ ἡσυχίαν ἦγον, ἀλλ᾽ ἀμελήσας , ὧνπερ 
οἱ πολλοί, χρηματισμοῦ τε καὶ οἰκονομίας καὶ 
στρατηγιῶν καὶ δημηγοριῶν καὶ τῶν ἄλλων ἀρχῶν 
καὶ ξυνωμοσιῶν καὶ στάσεων τῶν ἐν τῇ πόλει 
γιγνομένων, ἡγησάμενος ἐμαυτὸν τῷ ὄντι ἐπιει- 
κέστερον εἶναι ἢ ὥστε εἰς ταῦτ᾽ ἰόντα σῴξεσθαι, 
ἐνταῦθα μὲν οὐκ ἦα, of ἐλθὼν μήτε ὑμῖν μήτε 
ἐμαυτῷ ἔμελλον μηδὲν ὄφελος εἶναι, ἐπὶ δὲ τὸ 
ἰδίᾳ ἕκαστον ἰὼν 1 εὐεργετεῖν τὴν μεγίστην εὐερ- 
γεσίαν, ὡς ἐγώ φημι, ἐνταῦθα ἦα, ἐπιχειρῶν 
ἕκαστον ὑμῶν πείθειν μὴ πρότερον μήτε τῶν 
ἑαυτοῦ μηδενὸς ἐπιμελεῖσθαι, πρὶν ἑαυτοῦ ἐπιμε- 
ληθείη, ὅπως ὡς βέλτιστος καὶ φρονιμώτατος 
ἔσοιτο, μήτε τῶν τῆς πόλεως, πρὶν αὐτῆς τῆς 
πόλεως, τῶν τε ἄλλων οὕτω κατὰ τὸν αὐτὸν 
τρόπον ἐπιμελεῖσθαι: τί οὖν εἰμι ἄξιος παθεῖν 
τοιοῦτος ὦν; ἀγαθόν τι, ὦ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, 
εἰ δεῖ γε κατὰ τὴν ἀξίαν τῇ ἀληθείᾳ τιμᾶσθαι 
καὶ ταῦτά γε ἀγαθὸν τοιοῦτον, ὅ τι ἂν πρέποι 
ἐμοί. τί οὖν πρέπει ἀνδρὶ πένητι εὐεργέτῃ, 
δεομένῳ ἄγειν σχολὴν ἐπὶ τῇ. ὑμετέρᾳ παρακε- 
λεύσει; οὐκ ἔσθ᾽ ὅ TL μᾶλλον, ὦ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, 
πρέπει οὕτως, ὡς τὸν τοιοῦτον ἄνδρα ἐ ἐν πρυτανείῳ 
σιτεῖσθαι, πολύ γε μᾶλλον ἢ εἴ τις ὑμῶν ἵππῳ ἢ 

1 Schanz brackets, ἰὼν. 


128 


THE APOLOGY 


not come forward to accuse me, he would have been 
fined a thousand drachmas for not receiving a fifth 
part of the votes. 

And so the man proposes the penalty of death. 
Well, then, what shall I propose as an alternative? 
Clearly that which I deserve, shall I not? And 
what do I deserve to suffer or to pay, because in my 
life I did not keep quiet, but neglecting what most 
men care for—money-making and property, and 
military offices, and public speaking, and the various 
offices and plots and parties that come up in the 
state—and thinking that I was really too honourable 
to engage in those activities and live, refrained from 
those things by which I should have been of no use 
to you or to myself, and devoted myself to conferring 
upon each citizen individually what I regard as the 
greatest benefit? For I tried to persuade each of you 
to care for himself and his own perfection in good- 
ness and wisdom rather than for any of his belong- 
ings, and for the state itself rather than for its 
interests, and to follow the same method in his care 
for other things. What, then, does such a man as 1 
deserve? Some good thing, men of Athens, if 1 
must propose something truly in accordance with my 
deserts; and the good thing should be such as is 
fitting forme. Now what is fitting for a poor man 
who is your benefactor, and who needs leisure to 
exhort you? There is nothing, men of Athens, so 
fitting as that such a man be given his meals in the 
prytaneum. That is much more appropriate for me 
than for any of you who has won a race at the 


129 


91 


PLATO 


ξυνωρίδι ἢ ἢ ξεύγει νενίκηκεν ᾿Ολυμπίασιν. ὁ ὁ μὲν ᾿ γὰρ 
ὑμᾶς ποιεῖ εὐδαίμονας δοκεῖν εἶναι, ἐγὼ δὲ εἶναι" 
καὶ ὁ μὲν τροφῆς οὐδὲν δεῖται, ἐγὼ δὲ δέομαι. 
εἰ οὖν δεῖ με κατὰ τὸ δίκαιον τῆς ἀξίας τιμᾶσθαι, 
τούτου τιμῶμαι, ἐν πρυτανείῳ σιτήσεως. 

27. Ἴσως οὖν ὑμῖν καὶ ταυτὶ λέγων παρα- 
πλησίως δοκῶ λέγειν ὥσπερ περὶ τοῦ οἴκτου 
καὶ τῆς ἀντιβολήσεως, ἀπαυθαδιζόμενος" τὸ δὲ 
οὐκ ἔστιν, ὦ ᾿Αθηναῖοι, τοιοῦτον, ἀλλὰ τοιόνδε 
μᾶλλον. πέπεισμαι ἐγὼ ἑκὼν εἶναι μηδένα ἀδι- 
κεῖν ἀνθρώπων, ἀλλὰ ὑμᾶς τοῦτο οὐ πείθω" 
ὀλίγον γὰρ χρόνον ἀλλήλοις διειλέγμεθα' ἐπεί, 
ὡς ἐγῴμαι, εἰ ἦν ὑμῖν νόμος, ὥσπερ καὶ ἄλλοις 
ἀνθρώποις, περὶ θανάτου μὴ μίαν ἡμέραν μόνον 
κρίνειν, ἀλλὰ πολλάς, ἐπείσθητε ἄν: νὸν δ᾽ οὐ 
ῥάδιον ἐν χρόνῳ ὀλίγῳ μεγάλας διαβολὰς ἀπο- 
λύεσθαι. πεπεισμένος δὴ ἐγὼ μηδένα ἀδικεῖν 
πολλοῦ δέω ἐμαυτόν “γέ ἀδικήσειν καὶ κατ᾽ 
ἐμαυτοῦ ἐρεῖν αὐτός, ὡς ἄξιός εἰμί του κακοῦ 
καὶ τιμήσεσθαι τοιούτου τινὸς ἐμαυτῷ. τί δείσας; 
ἢ μὴ πάθω τοῦτο, οὗ Μέλητός μοι τιμᾶται, 
ὅ φημι οὐκ εἰδέναι οὔτ᾽ εἰ ἀγαθὸν οὔτ᾽ εἰ κακόν 
ἐστιν; ἀντὶ τούτου δὴ ἕλωμαι ὧν εὖ οἶδ᾽ ὅτι 
κακῶν ὄντων, τοῦ τιμησάμενος; πότερον δεσμοῦ; 
καὶ τί με δεῖ ζῆν ἐν δεσμωτηρίῳ, δουλεύοντα τῇ 
ἀεὶ καθισταμένῃ ἀρχῇ; ἀλλὰ χρημάτων, καὶ 
δεδέσθαι, ἕως ἂν ἐκτίσω; ἀχλὰ ταὐτόν μοί 
ἐστιν, ὅπερ νῦν δὴ ἔλεγον' οὐ γὰρ ἔστι μοι 
χρήματα, ὁ ὁπόθεν ἐκτίσω. ἀλλὰ δὴ φυγῆς τιμή- 
σωμαι; ἴσως “γὰρ ἄν μοι τούτου τιμήσαιτε. 
πολλὴ μέντ᾽ ἄν pe φιλοψυχία ἔχοι, εἰ οὕτως 


1 Schanz brackets εἶναι, following Hermann. 


130 


THE APOLOGY 


Olympic games with a pair of horses or a four-in- 
hand. For he makes you seem to be happy, whereas 
I make you happy in reality ; and he is not at all in 
need of sustenance, but I am needy. So if I niust 
propose a penalty in accordance with my deserts, I 
propose maintenance in the prytaneum. 

Perhaps some of you think that in saying this, as 
in what I said about lamenting and imploring, I am 
speaking in a spirit of bravado; but that is not the 
case. The truth is rather that I am convinced that 
I never intentionally wronged any one ; but I cannot 
convince you of this, for we have conversed with 
each other only a little while. I believe if you had 
a law, as some other people have, that capital cases 
should not be decided in one day, but only after 
several days, you would be convinced ; but now it is 
not easy to rid you of great prejudices in a short 
time. Since, then, I am convinced that I never 
wronged any one, I am certainly not going to wrong 
myself, and to say of myself that I deserve anything 
bad, and to propose any penalty of that sort for 
myself. Why should I? Through fear of the 
penalty that Meletus proposes, about which I say 
that I do not know whether it is a good thing or an 
evil? Shall I choose instead of that something 
which I know to be an evil? What penalty shall 
I propose? Imprisonment? And why should 1 
live in prison a slave to those who may be in 
authority? .Or shall I propose a fine, with imprison- 
ment until it is paid? But that is the same as 
what I said just now, for I have no money to pay 
with. Shall I then propose exile as my penalty? 
Perhaps you would accept that. I must indeed be 


131 


28 


PILATO 


σ 
ἀλόγιστός εἰμι, ὥστε μὴ δύνασθαι λογίζεσθαι, 
OTL ὑμεῖς μὲν ὄντες πολῖταί μον οὐχ οἷοί τε 
ἐγένεσθε ἐνεγκεῖν τὰς ἐμὰς διατριβὰς καὶ τοὺς 
e a 
λόγους, GAN ὑμῖν βαρύτεραι γεγόνασιν καὶ 
ἐπιφθονώτεραι, ὥστε ζητεῖτε αὐτῶν νυνὶ ἀπαλ- 
λαγῆναι, ἄλλοι δὲ ἄρα αὐτὰς οἴσουσι ῥᾳδίως; 
a a 2 a 
πολλοῦ γε δεῖ, ὦ ᾿Αθηναῖοι. καλὸς οὖν ἄν 
«ς / an 
pot ὁ βίος εἴη ἐξελθόντε τηλικῷδε ἀνθρώπῳ 
/ 
ἄλλην ἐξ ἄλλης πόλεως ἀμειβομένῳ καὶ ἐξελαυ- 
/ n 4φ Ἂ ἴδ᾽ “ “ A » θ 
νομένῳ ζῆν. εὖ γὰρ οἶδ᾽ ὅτι, ὅποι ἂν ἔλθω, 
A e 
λέγοντος ἐμοῦ ἀκροάσονται οἱ νέοι ὥσπερ ἐνθάδε' 
κἂν μὲν τούτους ἀπελαύνω, οὗτοι ἐμὲ αὐτοὶ 
9 a , 4 / 7\ \ 
ἐξελῶσι, πείθοντες τοὺς πρεσβυτέρους: ἐὰν δὲ 
΄ a 
μὴ ἀπελαύνω, οἱ τούτων πατέρες TE καὶ οἰκεῖοι 
δι’ αὐτοὺς τούτους. 

28. Ἴσως οὖν ἄν τις εἴποι' σιγῶν δὲ καὶ 
ἡσυχίαν ἄγων, ὦ Σώκρατες, οὐχ οἷός τ᾽ ἔσει ἡμῖν 
ἐξελθὼν ζῆν; τουτὶ δή ἐστι πάντων χαλεπώτατον 

A A 4 a 
πεῖσαί τινας ὑμῶν. ἐάν Te yap λέγω, ὅτι TO 

a al A \ a 
θεῷ ἀπειθεῖν τοῦτ᾽ ἐστὶν καὶ διὰ τοῦτο ἀδύνατον 

7 
ἡσυχίαν ἄγειν, ov πείσεσθέ μοι ὡς εἰρωνευομένῳ" 
ἐάν T αὖ λέγω, ὅτε καὶ τυγχάνει μέγιστον 
, A 
ἀγαθὸν ὃν ἀνθρώπῳ τοῦτο, ἑκάστης ἡμέρας περὶ 
A / A al 
ἀρετῆς τοὺς λόγους ποιεῖσθαι Kal τῶν ἄλλων, 
A fo) ’ 
περὶ ὧν ὑμεῖς ἐμοῦ ἀκούετε διαλεγομένου καὶ 
> \ \ Mv 2 / ς \ 9.2 ‘ 
ἐμαυτὸν καὶ ἄλλους ἐξετάζοντος, ὁ δὲ ἀνεξέταστος 
΄ ἴω ᾽ 
βίος οὐ βιωτὸς ἀνθρώπῳ, ταῦτα δ᾽ ἔτι ἧττον 

/ f \ \ ” \ ef 
πείσεσθέ μοι λέγοντι. τὰ δὲ ἔχει μὲν οὕτως, 
e > 4 9? wv / \ > εἰ 
ὡς ἐγώ φημι, ὦ ἄνδρες, πείθειν δὲ οὐ ῥάδιον. 
καὶ ἐγὼ ἅμα οὐκ εἴθισμαι ἐμαυτὸν ἀξιοῦν κακοῦ 

\ 
οὐδενός. εἰ μὲν γὰρ ἦν μοι χρήματα, ἐτιμησόμην 
’ 
ἂν χρημάτων ὅσα ἔμελλον ἐκτίσειν: οὐδὲν γὰρ 
132 


THE APOLOGY 


possessed by a great love of life if I am so irrational 
as not to know that if you, who are my fellow 
citizens, could not endure my conversation and my 
words, but found them too irksome and disagreeable, 
so that you are now seeking to be rid of them, 
others will not be willing to endure them. No, men 
of Athens, they certainly will not. A fine life I 
should lead if I went away at my time of life, 
wandering from city to city and always being driven 
out! For well I know that wherever I go, the 
young men will listen to my talk, as they do here; 
and if I drive them away, they will themselves 
persuade their elders to drive me out, and if I do 
not drive them away, their fathers and relatives 
will drive me out for their sakes. 

Perhaps someone might say, “Socrates, can you not 
go away from us and live quietly, without talking?” 
Now this is the hardest thing to make some of you 
believe. For if I say that such conduct would be 
disobedience to the god and that therefore I cannot 
keep quiet, you will think I am jesting and will not 
believe me; and if again I say that to talk every 
day about virtue and the other things about which 
you hear me talking and examining myself and 
others is the greatest good to man, and that the 
unexamined life is not worth living, you will believe 
me still less. This is as I say, gentlemen, but it is not 
easy to convince you. Besides, i am not accustomed 
to think that I deserve anything bad. If I had 
money, I would have proposed a fine, as large as I 
could pay; for that would have done me no harm. 


133 


PLATO 


dv ἐβλάβην: viv δὲ οὐ yap ἔστιν, εἰ μὴ ἄρα 
ὅσον ἂν ἐγὼ δυναίμην ἐκτῖσαι, τοσούτου βού- 
λεσθέ μοι τιμῆσαι. ἴσως δ᾽ ἂν δυναίμην ἐκτῖσαι 
ὑμῖν μνᾶν ἀργυρίου: τοσούτον οὖν τιμῶμαι. 
Πλάτων δὲ ὅδε, ὦ ἄνδρες ᾿Αθηναῖοι, καὶ Κρίτων 
καὶ Κριτόβουλος καὶ ᾿Απολλόδωρος κελεύουσί 
με τριάκοντα μνῶν τιμήσασθαι, αὐτοὶ δ᾽ ἐγ- 
γυᾶσθαι: τιμῶμαι οὖν τοσούτου, ἐγγνηταὶ δὲ 
ὑμῖν ἔσονται τοῦ ἀργυρίου οὗτοι ἀξιόχρεῳ. 


29. Οὐ πολλοῦ γ᾽ ἕνεκα χρόνου, ὦ ἄνδρες 
᾿Αθηναῖοι, ὄνομα ἕξετε καὶ αἰτίαν ὑπὸ τῶν 
βουλομένων τὴν πόλιν λοιδορεῖν, ὡς Σωκράτη 
ἀπεκτόνατε, ἄνδρα σοφόν: φήσουσι γὰρ δή με 
σοφὸν εἶναι, εἰ καὶ μή εἰμι, οἱ βουλόμενοι ὑμῖν 
ὀνειδίζειν. εἰ οὖν περιεμείνατε ὀλίγον χρόνον, 
ἀπὸ τοῦ αὐτομάτου ἂν ὑμῖν τοῦτο ἐγένετο' ὁρᾶτε 
γὰρ δὴ τὴν ἡλικίαν, ὅτι πόρρω ἤδη ἐστὶ τοῦ 
βίου, θανάτου δὲ ἐγγύς. λέγω δὲ τοῦτο οὐ πρὸς 
πάντας ὑμᾶς, ἀλλὰ πρὸς τοὺς ἐμοῦ καταψη- 
φισαμένους θάνατον. λέγω δὲ καὶ τόδε πρὸς 
τοὺς αὐτοὺς τούτους. ἴσως με οἴεσθε, ὦ ἄνδρες, 
ἀπορίᾳ λόγων ἑαλωκέναι τοιούτων, οἷς ἂν ὑμᾶς 
ἔπεισα, εἰ ᾧμην δεῖν ἅπαντα ποιεῖν καὶ λέγειν, 
ὥστε ἀποφυγεῖν τὴν δίκην. πολλοῦ γε δεῖ. ἀλλ᾽ 
ἀπορίᾳ μὲν ἑάλωκα, οὐ μέντοι λόγων, ἀλλὰ 
τόλμης καὶ ἀναισχυντίας καὶ τοῦ ἐθέλειν λέγειν 
πρὸς ὑμᾶς τοιαῦτα, of ἂν ὑμῖν ἥδιστα ἦν ἀκούειν, 
θρηνοῦντός τέ μου καὶ ὀδυρομένου καὶ ἄλλα 
ποιοῦντος καὶ λέγοντος πολλὰ καὶ ἀνάξια ἐμοῦ, 
ὡς ἐγώ φημι: οἷα δὴ καὶ εἴθισθε ὑμεῖς τῶν ἄλλων 
ἀκούειν. ἀλλ᾽ οὔτε τότε ὠήθην δεῖν ἕνεκα τοῦ 


134 


THE APOLOGY 


But as it is—I have no money, unless you are willing 
to impose a fine which I could pay. I might perhaps 
pay a mina of silver. So I propose that penalty ; 
but Plato here, men of Athens, and Crito and Crito- 
bulus, and Apollodorus tell me to propose a fine of 
thirty minas, saying that they are sureties for it. So 
I propose a fine of that amount, and these men, who 
are amply sufficient, will be my sureties. 


It is no long time, men of Athens, which you gain, 
and for that those who wish to cast a slur upon the 
state will give you the name and blame of having 
killed Socrates, a wise man ; for, you know, those who 
wish to revile you will say I am wise, even though I 
am not. Now if you had waited a little while, what 
you desire would have come to you of its own accord ; 
for you see how old I am, how far advanced in life 
and how near death. I say this not to all of you, but 
to those who voted for my death. And to them also 
I have something else to say. Perhaps you think, 
gentlemen, that I have been convicted through lack 
of such words as would have moved you to acquit me, 
if I had thought it right to do and say everything to 
gain an acquittal. Far from it. And yet it is through 
a lack that I have been convicted, not however a 
lack of words, but of impudence and shamelessness, 
and of willingness to say to you such things as you 
would have liked best to hear. You would have 
liked to hear me wailing and lamenting and doing 
and saying many things which are, as I maintain, 
unworthy of me—such things as you are accustomed 
to hear from others. But I did not think at the time 


135 


99 


PLATO 


κινδύνου πρᾶξαι οὐδὲν ἀνελεύθερον, οὔτε νῦν 
μοι μεταμέλει οὕτως ἀπολογησαμένῳ, ἀλλὰ πολὺ 
μᾶλλον αἱροῦμαι ς ᾧδε ἀπολογησάμενος τεθνάναι ἢ ἢ 
ἐκείνως. ζῆν. οὔτε γὰρ ἐν δίκῃ οὔτ᾽ ἐν πολέμῳ οὔτ᾽ 
ἐμὲ οὔτ᾽ ἄλλον οὐδένα δεῖ τοῦτο μηχανᾶσθαι, ὅπως 
ἀποφεύξεται πᾶν ποιῶν θάνατον. καὶ γὰρ ἐν 
ταῖς μάχαις πολλάκις δῆλον γίγνεται, ὅτε τό 
γε. ἀποθανεῖν ἄν τις ἐκφύγοι. καὶ ὅπλα ἀφεὶς 
καὶ ἐφ᾽ ἱκετείαν τραπόμενος τῶν διωκόντων' καὶ 
ἄλλαι μηχαναὶ πολλαί εἰσιν ἐν ἑκάστοις τοῖς 
κινδύνοις, ὥ ὥστε διαφεύγειν θάνατον, ἐ ἐάν τις τολμᾷ 
πᾶν ποιεῖν καὶ λέγειν. ἀλλὰ μὴ οὐ τοῦτ᾽ ἡ 
χαλεπόν, ὦ ἄνδρες, θάνατον ἐκφυγεῖν, ἀλλὰ πολὺ 
χαλεπώτερον πονηρίαν' θᾶττον γὰρ θανάτου θεῖ. 
καὶ νῦν ἐγὼ μὲν ἅτε βραδὺς ὧν καὶ πρεσβύτης 
ὑπὸ τοῦ βραδυτέρου ἑάλων, οἱ δ᾽ ἐμοὶ κατήγοροι 
ἅτε δεινοὶ καὶ ὀξεῖς ὄντες ὑπὸ τοῦ θάττονος, 
τῆς κακίας. καὶ νῦν ἐγὼ μὲν ἄπειμι ὑφ᾽ ὑμῶν 
θανάτου δίκην ὄφλων, οὗτοι δ᾽ ὑπὸ τῆς ἀληθείας 
ὠφληκότες μοχθηρίαν καὶ ἀδικίαν. καὶ ἔγωγε 
τῷ τιμήματι ἐμμένω καὶ οὗτοι. ταῦτα μέν που 
ἴσως οὕτως καὶ ἔδει σχεῖν, καὶ οἶμαι ᾳὐτὰ μετρίως 
ἔχειν. 

50 «Τὸ δὲ δὴ μετὰ τοῦτο ἐπιθυμῶ ὑ ὑμῖν χρησ- 
μῳδῆσαι, ὧ καταψηφισάμενοί μου" καὶ γάρ 
εἶμι ἤδη ἐνταῦθα, ἐ ἐν ᾧ μάλιστα ἄνθρωποι χρησ- 
μῳδοῦσιν, ὅταν μέλλωσιν ἀποθανεῖσθαι. φημὶ 
γάρ, ὦ ἄνδρες, οἱ ἐμὲ ἀπεκτόνατε, τιμωρίαν ὑμῖν 

ἥξειν εὐθὺς μετὰ τὸν ἐμὸν θάνατον πολὺ χαλε- 
πωτέραν νὴ Δία ἢ οἵαν ἐμὲ ἀπεκτόνατε' νῦν 
γὰρ τοῦτο εἴργασθε οἰόμενοι ἀπαλλάξεσθαι τοῦ 
διδόναι ἔλεγχον τοῦ βίου, τὸ δὲ ὑμῖν πολὺ ἐναντίον 


136 


THE APOLOGY 


that 1 ought, on account of the danger I was in, to do 
anything unworthy of a free man, nor do I now repent 
of having made my defence as I did, but I much 
prefer to die after such a defence than to live after 
a defence of the other sort. For neither in the court 
nor in war ought I or any other man to plan to escape 
death by every possible means. In battles it is often 
plain that a man might avoid death by throwing 
down his arms and begging mercy of his pursuers; 
and there are many other means of escaping death 
in dangers of various kinds if one is willing to do and 
say anything. But, gentlemen, it is not hard to escape 
death; it is much harder to escape wickedness, for 
that runs faster than death. And now I, since I am 
slow and old, am caught by the slower runner, and 
my accusers, who are clever and quick, by the faster, 
wickedness. And now I shall go away convicted by 
you and sentenced to death, and they go convicted 
by truth of villainy and wrong. And I abide by my 
penalty, and they by theirs. Perhaps these things 
had to be so, and I think they are well. 

And now 1 wish to prophesy to you, O ye who 
have condemned me; for I am now at the time 
when men most do prophesy, the time just before 
death. And I say to you, ye men who have slain 
me, that punishment will come upon you straight- 
way after my death, far more grievous in sooth than 
the punishment of death which you have meted out 
to me. For now you have done this to me because 
you hoped that you would be relieved from rendering 
an account of your lives, but I say that you will find 


137 


40 


PLATO 


ἀποβήσεται, ὡς ἐγώ φημι. πλείους ἔσονται ὑμᾶς 
οἱ ἐλέγχοντες, οὗς νῦν ἐγὼ κατεῖχον, ὑμεῖς δὲ 
οὐκ ἠσθάνεσθε' καὶ χαλεπώτεροι ἔσονται ὅσῳ 
νεώτεροί εἰσιν, καὶ ὑμεῖς μᾶλλον ἀγανακτήσετε. 
εἰ γὰρ οἴεσθε a ἀποκτείνοντες ἀνθρώπους ἐ ἐπισχήσειν 
τοῦ ὀνειδίζειν τινὰ ὑμῖν ὅτι οὐκ ὀρθῶς ζῆτε, οὐκ 
ὀρθῶς διανοεῖσθε' οὐ γὰρ ἔσθ᾽ αὕτη ἡ ἀπαλλαγὴ 
οὔτε πάνυ δυνατὴ οὔτε καλή, ἀλλ᾽ ἐκείνη καὶ 
καλλίστη καὶ ῥάστη, μὴ τοὺς ἄλλους κολούειν, 
ἀλλ᾽ ἑαυτὸν παρασκευάξειν ὅπως ἔσται ὡς 
βέλτιστος. ταῦτα μὲν οὖν ὑμῖν τοῖς καταψηφι- 
σαμένοις μαντευσάμενος ἀπαλλάττομαι. 

31. Τοῖς δὲ ἀποψηφισαμένοις ἡδέως ἃ ἂν διαλε- 
χθείην ὑπὲρ τοῦ γεγονότος τουτουὶ πράγματος, 
ἐν ᾧ οἱ ἄρχοντες ἀσχολίαν ἄγουσι καὶ οὔπω 
ἔρχομαι οἷ ἐλθόντα με δεῖ τεθνάναι. ἀλλά μοι, 
ὦ ἄνδρες, παραμείνατε τοσοῦτον χρόνον" οὐδὲν 
γὰρ κωλύει διαμυθολογῆσαι πρὸς ἀλλήλους, 
ἕως ἔξεστιν. ὑμῖν γὰρ ὡς φίλοις οὖσιν ἐπιδεῖξαι 
ἐθέλω τὸ νυνί μοι ξυμβεβηκὸς τί ποτε νοεῖ. ἐμοὶ 
γάρ, ὦ ἄνδρες δικασταί---ὑμᾶς γὰρ δικαστὰς 
καλῶν ὀρθῶς ἂν καλοίην---θαυμάσιόν τι γέγονεν. 

ἡ γὰρ εἰωθυῖά μοι μαντικὴ ἡ τοῦ δαιμονίου 1 ἐν 
μὲν τῷ πρόσθεν χρόνῳ παντὶ πάνυ πυκνὴ ἀεὶ 
ἦν καὶ πάνυ ἐπὶ σμικροῖς ἐναντιουμένη, εἴ τι 
μέλλοιμι μὴ ὀρθῶς πράξειν' νυνὶ δὲ ξυμβέβηκέ 
μοι, ἅπερ ὁρᾶτε καὶ αὐτοί, ταυτὶ ἅ γε δὴ οἰηθείη 
ἄν τις καὶ νομίζεται ἔσχατα κακῶν εἶναι. ἐμοὶ δὲ 
οὔτε ἐξιόντι ἕωθεν οἴκοθεν ἠναντιώθη τὸ τοῦ 
θεοῦ σημεῖον, οὔτε ἡνίκα ἀνέβαινον ἐνταυθοῖ 


1 Schanz follows Schleiermacher in bracketing ἡ τοῦ δαι- 
μονίου. 


138 


THE APOLOGY 


the result far different. Those who will force you to 
give an account will be more numerous than hereto- 
fore ; men whom I restrained, though you knew it 
not ; and they will be harsher, inasmuch as they are 
younger, and you will be more annoyed. For if you 
think that by putting men to death you will prevent 
anyone from reproaching you because you do not act 
as you should, you are mistaken. That mode of 
escape is neither possible at al] nor honourable, but 
the easiest and most honourable escape is not by 
suppressing others, but by making yourselves as good 
as possible. So with this prophecy to you who 
condemned me [ take my leave. 

But with those who voted for my acquittal I should 
like to converse about this which has happened, while 
the authorities are busy and before I go to the place 
where I must die. Wait with me so long, my friends ; 
for nothing prevents our chatting with each other 
while there is time. I feel that you are my friends, 
and I wish to show you the meaning of this which has 
now happened tome. For, judges—and in calling you 
judges I give you your right name—a wonderful thing 
has happened to me. For hitherto the customary 
prophetic monitor always spoke to me very frequently 
and opposed me even in very small matters, if I was 
going to do anything I should not; but now, as you 
yourselves see, this thing which might be thought, 
and is generally considered, the greatest of evils has 
come upon me; but the divine sign did not oppose me 
either when I left my home in the morning, or when I 
came here to the court, or at any point of my speech, 


139 


PLATO 


ἐπὶ τὸ δικαστήριον, οὔτε ἐν TH λόγῳ οὐδαμοῦ 
μέλλοντί τι ἐρεῖν' Kaitoe ἐν ἄλλοις λόγοις 
πολλαχοῦ δή με ἐπέσχε, λέγοντα μεταξύ' νῦν 
δὲ οὐδαμοῦ περὶ ταύτην τὴν πρᾶξιν οὔτ᾽ ἐν ἔργῳ 
οὐδενὶ οὔτ᾽ ἐν λόγῳ ἠναντίωταί μοι. τί οὖν αἴτιον 
εἶναι ὑπολαμβάνω; ἐγὼ ὑμῖν ἐρῶ" κινδυνεύει γάρ 
μοι τὸ ξυμβεβηκὸς τοῦτο ἀγαθὸν γεγονέναι, καὶ 
οὐκ ἔσθ᾽ ὅπως ἡμεῖς ὀρθῶς ὑπολαμβάνομεν, 

Ο ὅσοι οἰόμεθα κακὸν εἶναι τὸ τεθνάναι. μέγα μοι 
τεκμήριον τούτου γέγονεν’ οὐ γὰρ ἔσθ᾽ ὅπως 
οὐκ ἠναντιώθη ἄν μοι τὸ εἰωθὸς σημεῖον, εἰ μή 
τι ἔμελλον ἐγὼ ἀγαθὸν πράξειν. 

2. ᾿Εννοήσωμεν δὲ καὶ τῇδε, ὡς πολλὴ ἐλπίς 
ἐστιν ἀγαθὸν αὐτὸ εἶναι: δυοῖν γὰρ θάτερόν ἐστιν 
τὸ τεθνάναι: ἢ γὰρ οἷον μηδὲν εἶναι μηδὲ αἵἴ- 
σθησιν μηδεμίαν μηδενὸς ἔχειν τὸν τεθνεῶτα, ἢ 
κατὰ τὰ λεγόμενα μεταβολή τις τυγχάνει οὖσα 
καὶ μετοίκησις τῇ ψυχῆ τοῦ τόπου Tou} ἐνθένδε 
εἰς ἄλλον τόπον. καὶ εἴτε μηδεμία αἴσθησίς 

D ἐστιν, ἀλλ᾽ οἷον ὕπνος, ἐπειδάν τις καθεύδων μηδ᾽ 
ὄναρ μηδὲν ὁρᾷ, θαυμάσιον κέρδος ἂν εἴη ὁ 
avatos. ἐγὼ γὰρ ἂν οἶμαι, εἴ τινα ἐκλεξάμενον 
δέοι ταύτην τὴν νύκτα, ἐν ἣ οὕτω κατέδαρθεν, 
ὥστε μηδὲ ὄναρ ἰδεῖν, καὶ τὰς ἄλλας νύκτας τε 
καὶ ἡμέρας τὰς τοῦ βίου τοῦ ἑαυτοῦ ἀντιπαρα- 
θέντα ταύτῃ τῇ νυκτὶ δέοι σκεψάμενον εἰπεῖν, 
πόσας ἄμεινον καὶ ἥδιον ἡμέρας καὶ νύκτας 
ταύτης τῆς νυκτὸς βεβίωκεν ἐν τῷ ἑαυτοῦ βίῳ, 
οἶμαι ἂν μὴ ὅτι ἰδιώτην τινά, ἀλλὰ τὸν μέγαν 
E βασιλέα εὐαριθμήτους ἂν εὑρεῖν αὐτὸν ταύτας 
πρὸς τὰς ἄλλας ἡμέρας καὶ νύκτας. εἰ οὖν 

1 Schanz, following C and Hirschig, brackets τοῦ τόπου τοῦ 


140 


THE APOLOGY 


when I was going to say anything ; and yet on other 
occasions it stopped me at many points in the midst 
of a speech; but now, in this affair, it has not 
opposed me in anything I was doing or saying. 
What then do I suppose is the reason? I will tell 
you. This which has happened to me is doubtless a 
good thing, and those of us who think death is an 
evil must be mistaken. A convincing proof of this 
has been given me; for the accustomed sign would 
surely have opposed me if I had not been going to 
meet with something good. 

Let us consider in another way also how good 
reason there is to hope that it is a good thing. For 
the state of death is one of two things: either it is 
virtually nothingness, so that the dead has no con- 
sciousness of anything, or it is, as people say, a 
change and migration of the soul from this to 
another place. And if it is unconsciousness, like a 
sleep in which the sleeper does not even dream, 
death would be a wonderful gain. For I think if 
any one were to pick out that night in which he 
slept a dreamless sleep and, comparing with it the 
other nights and days of his life, were to say, after 
due consideration, how many days and nights in his 
life had passed more pleasantly than that night,—I 
believe that not only any private person, but even 
the great King of Persia himself would find that 
they were few in comparison with the other days 
and nights. So if such is the nature of death, I 


141 


4] 


PLATO 


τοιοῦτον ὁ θάνατός ἐστιν, κέρδος ἔγωγε λέγω" 
καὶ γὰρ οὐδὲν πλείων ὁ πᾶς χρόνος φαίνεται 
οὕτω “δὴ εἶναι ἢ μία νύξ. εἰ δ᾽ αὖ οἷον ἀποδη- 
μῆσαί ἐστιν ὁ θάνατος ἐνθένδε εἰς ἄλλον τόπον, 
καὶ ἀληθῆ ἐστιν τὰ λεγόμενα, ὡς ἄρα ἐκεῖ εἰσιν 
ἅπαντες οἱ τεθνεῶτες, τί μεῖζον ἀγαθὸν τούτου 
εἴη ἄν, ὦ ἄνδρες δικασταί; εἰ γάρ τις ἀφικόμενος 
εἰς “Αἰδου, ἀπαλλαγεὶς τούτων τῶν φασκόντων 
δικαστῶν εἶναι, εὑρήσει τοὺς ἀληθῶς δικαστάς, 
οἵπερ καὶ λέγονται ἐκεῖ δικάζειν, Μίνως τε καὶ 
Ῥαδάμανθυς καὶ Αἰακὸς καὶ Τριπτόλεμος καὶ 
ἄλλοι ὅσοι τῶν ἡμιθέων δίκαιοι ἐγένοντο ἐν τῷ 
ἑαυτῶν βίῳ, a ἄρα ΒΑ λα ἂν εἴη ἡ ἀποδημία; ἢ αὖ 
δ εὐ: ξυγγενέσ αι καὶ Μουσαίῳ καὶ Ἡσιόδῳ 

Ὁμήρῳ ἐπὶ πόσῳ av τις δέξαιτ᾽ ἂν ὑμῶν; 
ἐν μὲν γὰρ πολλάκις θέλω τεθνάναι, εἰ ταῦτ' 
ἔστιν ἀληθῆ: ἐπεὶ ἔμοιγε καὶ αὐτῷ ,»αυμαστὴ ἂν 
εἴη ἡ διατριβὴ αὐτόθι, ὁπότε ἐντύχοιμε Παλα- 
μήδει καὶ Αἴαντι τῷ Τελαμῶνος καὶ εἴ τις ἄλλος 
τῶν παλαιῶν διὰ κρίσιν ἄδικον τέθνηκεν, ἀντι- 
παραβάλλοντι τὰ ἐμαυτοῦ πάθη πρὸς τὰ ἐκείνων, 
ὡς ἐγὼ οἶμαι, οὐκ ἂν ἀηδὴς εἴη. καὶ δὴ τὸ 
μέγιστον, τοὺς ἐκεῖ ἐξετάζοντα καὶ ἐρευνῶντα 
ὥσπερ τοὺς ἐνταῦθα διάγειν, τίς αὐτῶν σοφός 
ἐστιν καὶ τίς οἴεται μέν, ἔστιν δ᾽ οὔ. ἐπὶ πόσῳ 
δ᾽ ἄν τις, ὧ ἄνδρες δικασταί, δέξαιτο ἐξετάσαι 
τὸν ἐπὶ Τροίαν ἀγαγόντα τὴν πολλὴν στρατιὰν 
ἡ Ὀδυσσέα ἢ ἢ Σίσυφον, ἢ ἢ ἄλλους μυρίους ἄν τις 
εἴποι καὶ pa on καὶ γυναῖκας; ols ἐκεῖ διαλέ- 
γεσθαι καὶ ξυνεῖναι καί ἐξετάζειν ἀμήχανον ἂν 
εἴη εὐδαιμονίας. πάντως οὐ δήπου τούτου γε 
ἕνεκα οἱ ἐκεῖ ἀποκτείνουσι' τά τε γὰρ ἄλλα 
142 


THE APOLOGY 


count it a gain; for in that case, all time seems to be 
no longer than one night. But on the other hand, 
if death is, as it were, a change of habitation from 
here to some other place, and if what we are told is 
true, that all the dead are there, what greater bless- 
ing could there be, judges? For if a man when he 
reaches the other world, after leaving behind these 
who claim to be judges, shall find those who are 
really judges who are said to sit in judgment there, 
Minos and Rhadamanthus, and Aeacus and Tripto- 
lemus, and all the other demigods who were just 
men in their lives, would the change of habitation 
be undesirable ? Or again, what would any of you 
give to meet with Orpheus and Musaeus and Hesiod 
and Homer? I am willing to die many times over, 
if these things are true ; for I personally should find 
the life there wonderful, when I met Palamedes 
or Ajax, the son of Telamon, or any other men of 
old who lost their lives through an unjust judg- 
ment, and compared my experience with theirs. 1 
think that would not be unpleasant. And the 
greatest pleasure would be to pass my time in 
examining and investigating the people there, as I 
do those here, to find out who among them is wise 
and who thinks he is when he is not. What price 
would any of you pay, judges, to examine him who 
led the great army against Troy, or Odysseus, or 
Sisyphus, or countless others, both men and women, 
whom I might mention? To converse and associate 
with them and examine them would be immeasurable 
happiness. At any rate, the folk there do not kill 
people for it; since, if what we are told is true, 


143 


PLATO 


evdatpoverTepot εἰσιν οἱ ἐκεῖ τῶν ἐνθάδε, καὶ ἤδη 
τὸν λοιπὸν χρόνον ἀθάνατοί εἰσιν, εἴπερ γε τὰ 
λεγόμενα ἀληθῆ ἐ ἐστιν. 

5.5: ᾿Αλλὰ καὶ ὑμᾶς χρή: ὧ ἄνδρες. δικασταί, 
εὐέλπιδας εἶναι πρὸς τὸν θάνατον, καὶ ἕν τι τοῦτο 
διανοεῖσθαι ἀληθές, ὅτι οὐκ ἔστιν ἀνδρὶ ἀγαθῷ 
κακὸν οὐδὲν οὔτε ζῶντι οὔτε τελευτήσαντι, οὐδὲ 
ἀμελεῖται ὑπὸ θεῶν τὰ τούτου πράγματα. οὐδὲ τὰ 
ἐμὰ νῦν ἀπὸ τοῦ αὐτομάτου γέγονεν, ἀλλά μοι 
δῆλόν ἐστι τοῦτο, ὅτι ἤδη τεθνάναι καὶ ἀπηλ- 
λάχθαι πραγμάτων βέλτιον ἦν μοι. διὰ τοῦτο 
καὶ ἐμὲ οὐδαμοῦ ἀπέτρεψεν τὸ σημεῖον, καὶ ἔγωγε 
τοῖς καταψηφισαμένοις μου καὶ τοῖς κατηγόροις 
οὐ πάνυ χαλεπαίνω. καίτοι οὐ ταύτῃ τῇ διανοίᾳ 
κατεψηφίζοντό μου καὶ κατηγόρουν, ἀλλ᾽ οἰό- 
μενοι βλάπτειν: τοῦτο αὐτοῖς ἄξιον μέμφεσθαι. 
τοσόνδε μέντοι αὐτῶν δέομαι: τοὺς υἱεῖς μου, 
ἐπειδὰν ἡβήσωσι, τιμωρήσασθε, ὦ ἄνδρες, ταὐτὰ 
ταῦτα λυποῦντες, ἅπερ ἐγὼ ὑμᾶς ἐλύπουν, ἐὰν 
ὑμῖν δοκῶσιν ἢ χρημάτων ἢ ἄλλου του πρότερον 
ἐπιμελεῖσθαι ὴ ἀρετῆς, καὶ ἐὰν δοκῶσί τί εἶναι 

μηδὲν ὄντες, ὀνειδίξετε αὐτοῖς, ὥσπερ ἐγὼ ὑμῖν, 
ὅτι οὐκ ἐπιμελοῦνται ὧν δεῖ, καὶ οἴονταί τι εἶναι 
ὄντες οὐδενὸς ἄξιοι. καὶ ἐὰν ταῦτα ποιῆτε, δίκαια 
πεπονθὼς ἐγὼ ἔσομαι ὑφ᾽ ὑμῶν αὐτός τε καὶ οἱ 
υἱεῖς. ἀλλὰ γὰρ ἤδη ὥρα ἀπιέναι, ἐμοὶ μὲν ἀπο- 
θανουμένῳ, ὑμῖν δὲ βιωσομένοις' ὁπότεροι δὲ 
ἡμῶν ἔρχονται ἐπὶ ἄμεινον πρᾶγμα, ἄδηλον παντὶ 
πλὴν ἢ τῷ θεῴ. 


144 


THE APOLOGY 


they are immortal for all future time, besides being 
happier in other respects than men are here. 

But you also, judges, must regard death hope- 
fully and must bear in mind this one truth, that 
no evil can come to a good man either in life or 
after death, and God does not neglect him. So, 
too, this which has come to me has not come by 
chance, but I see plainly that it was better for me to 
die now and be freed from troubles. That is the 
reason why the sign never interfered with me, and I| 
am not at all angry with those who condemned me 
or with my accusers. And yet it was not with that 
in view that they condemned and accused me, but 
because they thought to injure me. They deserve 
blame for that. However, I make this request of 
them: when my sons grow up, gentlemen, punish 
them by troubling them as I have troubled you; if 
they seem to you to care for money or anything else 
more than for virtue, and if they think they amount 
to something when they do not, rebuke them as I 
have rebuked you because they do not care for what 
they ought, and think they amount to something 
when they are worth nothing. If you do this, both 
I and my sons shall have received just treatment 
from you. 

But now the time has come to go away. I go to 
die, and you to live; but which of us goes to the 
better lot, is known to none but God. 


145 


YOOUOPA SAT 


| smear i ot PDT le icles 

pbs. Nort pix anima, αἱ τῷ | 
ἡϑομῆ, signph .Peages dy: pom Tala ΓΟ a 

Sernt) ahr, boy gil} Seite οὐ, γρον: Sas hanvalllt 
ποιό καὶ vito aar, borg aacok amy, tao dino ied 
δι «ait doakgsin tom 2 Dots hen yligatig ; 
| dc ornare wil Tevet «herent obidepenlt 

δι σὰ eal roMbclege δ ῥπή γύ ol qcepe λτορ beens 
δ eRe atidowd utk door) ek hod λῶ οι wih 

) Fide ἐξα dpe ties Metal tar τ tients dw HOE 
πον κ᾽ ρίας ἡφαίχθαι 
ΜΝ ἀν ΜΝ ἐσ ει ιτὸ ΠΥ Σ γα νη 


tht πα δώ ban harris qtr ΠΝ 3 
Priests pall eee τη οῦ soe reais git 
Rey aan as re ene bro ied. 


oh eines AMO Wie ane qua ἀνθ <ottedy 
ma Sa se E'S eal ta goat Ten ΕΣ ὟΣ 
προ μή δίξην ΠΣ og ἢ πο aE - 
ἥ τώρα τὸν τ. SMTA DAN jt ὯΔ Gaal 
τὰ πο Oona ΤΕΣ Ai ite aaa - 

sitter) aa eke sii sp 
great hoe sag ᾿ 


es fie it ματ, 
» a al fe ΤΥ Rk Lihue ee HTDY Κι" 
oF oy! at ait sarki dite oe 
at δ ΤΟ ΡΩΝ Pores 


yay pa! re Aa bots 


‘i 


CRITO 


INTRODUCTION TO THE CRITO 


Tuis dialogue is a conversation between Socrates 
and his lifelong friend Crito, which takes place in 
the prison where Socrates is confined after his trial 
to await the day of his execution. Crito was a man 
of wealth and position, devotedly attached to 
Socrates, and greatly interested in philosophical 
speculation. Diogenes Laertius (II. 121) gives a 
list of seventeen dialogues on philosophical subjects 
attributed to him, but Plato represents him through- 
out as a man of kindly disposition and _ practical 
common sense, quite lacking in originality and with 
no gift for philosophical investigation. 

There can be little doubt that Crito tried more 
than once to induce Socrates to escape from prison, 
but this dialogue can hardly be considered a mere 
report of a conversation which actually took place; it 
is planned and carried out with the exquisite skill 
peculiar to Plato, and must be recognised as his work. 
It is difficult, often impossible, to distinguish between 
the doctrines and beliefs of the real Socrates and 
those which are put into his mouth by Plato; but in 
view of the fact that Socrates did not escape from 
prison, his conduct must have been determined by 
some consideration of right. We may therefore 
believe that the doctrine that injustice is always 


148 


INTRODUCTION TO THE ΟἸΠΤῸ 


wrong and that we must not requite injustice with 
injustice is really Socratic, and that the exalted 
patriotism and sublime serenity of mind portrayed 
by Plato in this dialogue were really exhibited in the 
last days, as in the previous life, of the master whom 
he delighted to honour. 

For editions of the Crito, see the Introduction to 


the Apology. 


149 


Α 


KPITQN 


Η ΠΕΡῚ MPAKTEOT, ΗΘΙΚΟΣ 


TA TOY ΔΙΑΛΟΓΟΥ ΠΡΟΣΩΠΑᾺΑ 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ, ΚΡΙΤΩΝ 


iG ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί τηνικάδε ἀφῖξαι, ὦ Κρίτων; 
ἢ οὐ πρῷ ἔτι ἐστίν; 

ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. Πάνυ μὲν οὖν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. IInvixa μάλιστα; 

KPITON. Ὄρρθρος βαθύς. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Θαυμάξω, ὅ ὅπως ἠθέλησέ σοι oO τοῦ 
δεσμωτηρίου φύλαξ ὑ ὑπακοῦσαι. 

ΚΡΙΤΩ͂Ν. Ἐυνήθης ἤδη μοί ἐστιν, ὦ Σώκρατες, 
διὰ τὸ πολλάκις δεῦρο φοιτᾶν, καί τι καὶ εὐεργέ- 
τηται ὑπ᾽ ἐμοῦ. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἄρτι δὲ 4) ἥκεις ἢ πάλαι; 

KPITON. ᾿Εἰπιεικῶς πάλαι. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Εἶτα πῶς οὐκ εὐθὺς ἐπήγειράς με, 
ἀλλὰ σιγῇ παρακάθησαι; 

ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. Οὐ μὰ τὸν Δία, ὦ Σώκρατες, οὐδ᾽ ἂν 
αὐτὸς ἤθελον ἐν τοσαύτῃ τε ἀγρυπνίᾳ καὶ λύπῃ 
εἶναι. ἀλλὰ καὶ σοῦ πάλαι θαυμάξω αἰσθανό- 
μενος, ὡς ἡδέως καθεύδεις: καὶ ἐπίτηδές σε οὐκ 
ἤγειρον, ἵνα ὡς ἥδιστα διάγης. καὶ πολλάκις μὲν 
δή σε καὶ πρότερον ἐν παντὶ τῷ βίῳ εὐδαιμόνισα 
150 


CRITO 
{or ON DUTY; eErutcat] 


CHARACTERS 
Socrates, Crito 


socrates. Why have you come at this time, Crito? 
Or isn’t it still early? 

criTo. Yes, very early. 

socraTEs. About what time? 

σατο. Just before dawn. 

socRATES. I am surprised that the watchman of 
the prison was willing to let you in. 

criTo. He is used to me by this time, Socrates, 
because I come here so often, and besides I have 
done something for him. 

socraTes. Have you just come, or some time 
ago? 

criTo. Some little time ago. 

socraTes. Then why did you not wake me at 
once, instead of sitting by me in silence? 

criTo. No, no, by Zeus, Socrates, I only wish I 
myself were not so sleepless and sorrowful. But I 
have been wondering at you for some time, seeing 
how sweetly you sleep; and | purposely refrained 
from waking you, that you might pass the time as 
pleasantly as possible. I have often thought through- 


[51 


44 


PLATO 


Tov τρόπου, πολὺ δὲ μάλιστα ἐν TH νυνὶ παρε- 
στώσῃ ξυμφορᾷ, ὡς ῥᾳδίως αὐτὴν καὶ πράως 
φέρεις. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Καὶ γὰρ ἄν, ὦ Κρίτων, πλημμελὲς 
εἴη ἀγανακτεῖν τηλικοῦτον ὄντα, εἰ δεῖ ἤδη τε- 
λευτᾶν. 

ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. Καὶ ἄλλοι, ὦ Σώκρατες, τηλικοῦτοι ἐν 
τοιαύταις ξυμφοραῖς ἁλίσκονται, ἀλλ᾽ οὐδὲν 
αὐτοὺς ἐπιλύεται ἡ ἡλικία τὸ μὴ οὐχὶ ἀγανακτεῖν 
τῇ παρούσῃ τύχῃ. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἔστι ταῦτα. ἀλλὰ τί δὴ οὕτω 
πρῷ ἀφῖξαι; 

KPITON. ᾿Αγγελίαν, ὦ Σώκρατες, φέρων χα- 
λεπήν, οὐ σοί, ὡς ἐμοὶ φαίνεται, ἀλλ᾽ ἐμοὶ και 
τοῖς σοῖς ἐπιτηδείοις πᾶσιν καὶ χαλεπὴν. καὶ 
βαρεῖαν, ἣ ἣν ἐγώ, ὡς ἐμοὶ δοκῶ, ἐν τοῖς βαρύτατ᾽ 
ἂν ἐνέγκαιμι. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τίνα ταύτην; ἢ τὸ πλοῖον ἀφῖκται 
ἐκ Δήλου, οὗ δεῖ ἀφικομένου τεθνάναι με; 

KPITON. Οὔτοι δὴ ἀφῖκται, ἀλλὰ δοκεῖ μέν μοι 

ἥξειν τήμερον ἐξ ὦ ὧν ἀπαγγέλλουσιν ἥκοντές τίνες 
ἀπὸ Σουνίου καὶ καταλιπόντες ἐκεῖ αὐτό. δῆλον 
οὖν ἐκ τούτων τῶν ἀγγέλων ὅτι ἥξει τήμερον, 
καὶ ἀνάγκη δὲ εἰς αὔριον ἔσται, ὦ Σώκρατες, τὸν 
βίον σε τελευτᾶν. 

2. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ᾿Αλλ᾽, ὦ Κρίτων, τύχῃ “ἀγαθῇ. 
εἰ ταύτῃ τοῖς θεοῖς φίλον, ταύτῃ ἔστω. οὐ μέντοι 
οἶμαι ἥξειν αὐτὸ τήμερον. 

ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. Πόθεν τοῦτο τεκμαίρει; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Εμγώ σοι ἐρῶ. τῇ γάρ που ὕστε- 
ραίᾳ δεῖ με ἀποθνήσκειν ἢ ἡ ἂν ἔλθῃ τὸ πλοῖον. 

1 Schanz brackets ἀγγέλων. 
152 


CRITO 


out your life hitherto that you were of a happy 
disposition, and I think so more than ever in this 
present misfortune, since you bear it so easily and 
calmly. 

socraTEs. Well, Crito, it would be absurd if at 
my age I were disturbed because I must die now. 

crito. Other men as old, Socrates, become in- 
volved in similar misfortunes, but their age does not 
in the least prevent them from being disturbed by 
their fate. 

socraTES. That is true. But why have you come 
so early? 

crito. To bring news, Socrates, sad news, though 
apparently not sad to you, but sad and grievous 
to me and all your friends, and to few of them, I 
think, so grievous as to me. 

socraTES. What is this news? Has the ship come 
from Delos, at the arrival of which 1 am to die? 

στο. It has not exactly come, but I think it 
will come to-day from the reports of some men who 
have come from Sunium and left it there. Now 
it is clear from what they say that it will come 
to-day, and so to-morrow, Socrates, your life must end. 

socraTEs. Well, Crito, good luck be with us! If 
this is the will of the gods, so be it. However, I do 
not think it will come to-day. 

crito. What is your reason for not thinking so? 

socraTes. I willtell you. I must die on the day 
after the ship comes in, must I not? 


153 


PLATO 


KPITAN. agi γέ τοι δὴ οἱ τούτων κύριοι. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐ τοίνυν τῆς ἐπιούσης ἡμέρας 
οἶμαι αὐτὸ ἥξειν, ἀλλὰ τῆς ἑτέρας. τεκμαίρομαι 
δὲ ἔκ τίνος ἐνυπνίου, ὃ ἑώρακα ὀλίγον πρότερον 
ταύτης τῆς νυκτός" καὶ κινδυνεύεις ἐν καιρῷ τινι 
οὐκ ἐγεῖραί με. 

ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. "Hy δὲ δὴ τί τὸ ἐνύπνιον; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ᾿Εδόκει τίς “μοι γυνὴ προσελθοῦσα 
καλὴ καὶ εὐειδής, λευκὰ ἱμάτια ἔχουσα, καλέσαι 
με καὶ εἰπεῖν. ὦ Σώκρατες, 

ἤματί κεν τριτάτῳ Φθίην ἐρίβωλον ἵ ἴκοιο. 

KPITON. ἼΛτοπον τὸ ἐνύπνιον, ὦ Σώκρατες. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Εναργὲς μὲν οὖν, ὥς γέ μοι δοκεῖ, 
ὦ Κρίτων. 

3. ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. Λίαν γε, ὡς ἔοικεν. ἀλλ᾽, ὦ δαι- 
μόνιε Σώκρατες, ἔτι καὶ νῦν ἐμοὶ πιθοῦ" καὶ 
σώθητι: ὡς ἐμοί, ἐὰν σὺ ἀποθάνῃς, οὐ μία ξυμ- 
φορά ἐστιν, ἀλλὰ χωρὶς μὲν τοῦ ἐστερῆσθαι 
τοιούτου ἐπιτηδείου, οἷον ἐγὼ οὐδένα μή ποτε 
εὑρήσω, ἔτι δὲ καὶ πολλοῖς δόξω, οἱ ἐμὲ καὶ σὲ 
μὴ σαφῶς ἴσασιν, ὡς οἷός T ὧν σε σῴζειν, εἰ 
ἤθελον ἀναλίσκειν χρήματα, ἀμελῆσαι. καίτοι 
τίς ἂν αἰσχίων εἴη ταύτης δόξα ἡ ἢ δοκεῖν χρήματα 
περὶ πλείονος ποιεῖσθαι ἢ φίλους; οὐ γὰρ πεί- 
σονται οἱ πολλοί, ὡς σὺ αὐτὸς οὐκ ἠθέλησας 
ἀπιέναι ἐνθένδε ἡμῶν προθυμουμένων. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ᾿Αλλὰ τί ἡμῖν, ὦ μακάριε Κρίτων, 
οὕτω τῆς τῶν πολλῶν δόξης μέλει; οἱ γὰρ ἐπιει- 
κέστατοι, ὧν μᾶλλον ἄξιον φροντίξειν, ἡ ἡγήσονται 
αὐτὰ οὕτω πεπρᾶχ αι, ὥσπερ ἂν πραχ ῇ. 

ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. ᾿Αλλ᾽ ὁρᾷς δή, ὅτε ἀνάγκη, ὦ Σώκρατες, 

1 πιθοῦ Schanz, following Burges, πείθου BODE. 


154 


CRITO 


criTo. So those say who have charge of these 
matters. 

socraTEs. Well, I think it will not come in to-day, 
but to-morrow. And my reason for this is a dream 
which I had a little while ago in the course of this 
night. And perhaps you let me sleep just at the 
right time. 

crito. What was the dream? 

socraTes. I dreamed that a beautiful, fair woman, 
clothed in white raiment, came to me and called me 
and said, “Socrates, on the third day thou wouldst 
come to fertile Phthia.” + 

criTo. A strange dream, Socrates. 

socraTes. No, a clear one, at any rate, I think, 
Crito. 

crito. Too clear, apparently. But, my dear 
Socrates, even now listen to me and save yourself. 
Since, if you die, it will be no mere single misfortune 
to me, but I shall lose a friend such as I can never 
find again, and besides, many persons who do not 
know you and me well will think I could have saved 
you if I had been willing to spend money, but that 
I would not take the trouble. And yet what reputa- 
tion could be more disgraceful than that of considering 
one’s money of more importance than one’s friends? 
For most people will not believe that we were eager 
to help you to go away from here, but you refused. 

socrATEs. But, my dear Crito, why do we care so 
much for what most people think? For the most 
reasonable men, whose opinion is more worth con- 
sidering, will think that things were done as they 
really will be done. 

crito. But you see it is necessary, Socrates, to 


1 Homer, Iliad ix, 363. 
155 


45 


PLATO 


καὶ τῆς. τῶν πολλῶν δόξης μέλειν. αὐτὰ δὲ δῆλα 
τὰ παρόντα νυνί, ὅτι οἷοί τ᾽ εἰσὶν οἱ πολλοὶ οὐ τὰ 
σμικρότατα τῶν κακῶν ἐξεργάξεσθαι, ἀλλὰ τὰ 
μέγιστα σχεδόν, ἐάν τις ἐν αὐτοῖς διαβεβλη- 
μένος 7}. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ei γὰρ ὦφελον, ὦ Κρίτων, οἷοί τ᾽ 
εἶναι οἱ πολλοὶ τὰ μέγιστα κακὰ ἐργάζεσθαι, ἵνα 
οἷοί τ᾽ ἦσαν καὶ τὰ μέγιστα ἀγαθά, καὶ καλῶς 
ἂν elev" νῦν δὲ οὐδέτερα οἷοί τε: οὔτε yap φρό- 
νιμον οὔτε ἄφρονα δυνατοὶ ποιῆσαι, ποιοῦσι δὲ 
τοῦτο ὅ τι ἂν τύχωσι. 

4. ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. Ταῦτα μὲν δὴ οὕτως ἐχέτω: τάδε 
δέ, ὦ Σώκρατες, εἰπέ μοι. ἄρά γε μὴ ἐμοῦ προ- 
μηθεῖ καὶ τῶν ἄλλων ἐπιτηδείων, μή, ἐὰν σὺ 
ἐνθένδε ἐξέλθῃς, οἱ συκοφάνται ἡμῖν πράγματα 
παρέχωσιν ὡς σὲ ἐνθένδε ἐκκλέψασιν, καὶ ἀναγκα- 
σθῶμεν ἢ καὶ πᾶσαν τὴν οὐσίαν ἀποβαλεῖν ἢ 
συχνὰ χρήματα, ἢ καὶ ἄλλο τι πρὸς τούτοις 

παθεῖν; εἰ γάρ τι τοιοῦτον φοβεῖ, ἔασον αὐτὸ 
χαίρειν: ἡμεῖς γάρ που δίκαιοί ἐσμεν σώσαντές 
σε κινδυνεύειν τοῦτον τὸν κίνδυνον καί, ἐὰν δέῃ, 
ἔτι τούτου μείζω. ἀλλ᾽ ἐμοὶ πείθου καὶ μὴ ἄλλως 
ποίει. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Καὶ ταῦτα προμηθοῦμαι, ὦ Κρίτων, 
καὶ ἄλλα πολλά. 

ΚΡΙΤΩ͂Ν. Μήτε τοίνυν ταῦτα φοβοῦ: καὶ yap 
οὐδὲ πολὺ τἀργύριόν ἐστιν, ὃ θέλουσι λαβόντες 
τινὲς σῶσαί σε καὶ ἐξαγαγεῖν ἐνθένδε. ἔπειτα 
οὐχ ὁρᾷς τούτους τοὺς συκοφάντας ὡς εὐτελεῖς, 
καὶ οὐδὲν ἃ ἂν δέοι ἐ ἐπ᾽ αὐτοὺς πολλοῦ ἀργυρίου; σοὶ 
δὲ ὑπάρχει μὲν τὰ ἐμὰ χρήματα, ὡς ἐγὼ οἶμαι, 
ἱκανά: ἔπειτα καὶ εἴ τι ἐμοῦ κηδόμενος οὐκ οἴει 


156 


CRITO 


care for the opinion of the public, for this very 
trouble we are in now shows that the public is able 
to accomplish not by any means the least, but 
almost the greatest of evils, if one has a bad reputa- 
tion with it. 

socraTes. I only wish, Crito, the people could 
accomplish the greatest evils, that they might be 
able to accomplish also the greatest good things. 
Then all would be well. But now they can do 
neither of the two; for they are not able to make a 
man wise or foolish, but they do whatever occurs 
to them. 

criTo. That may well be. But, Socrates, tell me 
this: you are not considering me and your other 
friends, are you, fearing that, if you escape, the 
informers will make trouble for us by saying that 
we stole you away, and we shall be forced to lose 
either aJl our property or a good deal of money, or be 
punished in some other way besides? For if you 
are afraid of anything of that kind, let it go; since it 
is right for us to run this risk, and even greater risk 
than this, if necessary, provided we save you. Now 
please do as I ask. 

socraTes. I am considering this, Crito, and many 
other things. 

σατο. Well, do not fear this! for it is not even a 
large sum of money which we should pay to some 
men who are willing to save you and get you away 
from here. Besides, don’t you see how cheap these 
informers are, and that not much money would be 
needed to silence them? And you have my money 
at your command, which is enough, I fancy; and 
moreover, if because you care for me you think you 


157 


PLATO 


δεῖν ἀναλίσκειν τἀμά, ξένοι; ἐνθάδε ἕτοιμοι avanri- 
σκειν: εἷς δὲ καὶ κεκόμικεν ἐπ᾽ αὐτὸ τοῦτο ἀρ- 
γύριον ἱκανόν, Σιμμίας ὁ Θηβαῖος: ἕτοιμος δὲ καὶ 
Κέβης καὶ ἄλλοι πολλοὶ πάνυ. ὥστε, ὅπερ λέγω, 
μήτε ταῦτα φοβούμενος ἀποκάμῃς σαυτὸν σῶσαι, 
μήτε ὃ ἔλεγες ἐν TO δικαστηρίῳ, δυσχερές σοι 
γενέσθω, ὅτε οὐκ ἂν ἔχοις ἐξελθὼν ὅ TL χρῷο 
σαυτῷ: πολλαχοῦ μὲν γὰρ καὶ ἄλλοσε ὅποι ἂν 
ἀφίκῃ ἀγαπήσουσί σε: ἐὰν δὲ βούλῃ εἰς Θετ- 
ταλίαν ἰέναι, εἰσὶν ἐμοὶ ἐκεῖ ξένοι, οἵ σε περὶ 
πολλοῦ ποιήσονται καὶ ἀσφάλειάν σοι παρέξονται, 
ὥστε σε μηδένα λυπεῖν τῶν κατὰ Θετταλίαν. 

5. "Ere δέ, ὦ Σώκρατες, οὐδὲ δίκαιόν μοι δοκεῖς 
ἐπιχειρεῖν πρᾶγμα, σαυτὸν προδοῦναι, ἐξὸν σω- 
Ava: καὶ τοιαῦτα σπεύδεις περὶ σαυτὸν γενέ- 
σθαι, ἅπερ ἂν καὶ οἱ ἐχθροί σου σπεύσαιέν τε καὶ 
ἔσπευσάν σε διαφθεῖραι βουλόμενοι. πρὸς δὲ 
τούτοις καὶ τοὺς υἱεῖς τοὺς σαυτοῦ ἔμοιγε δοκεῖς 
προδιδόναι, οὕς σοι ἐξὸν καὶ ἐκθρέψαι καὶ ἐκπαι- 
δεῦσαι οἰχήσει καταλιπών, καὶ τὸ σὸν μέρος, ὃ τι 
ἂν τύχωσι, τοῦτο πράξουσιν" τεύξονται δέ, ὡς τὸ 
εἰκός, τοιούτων οἱάπερ εἴωθεν γίγνεσθαι ἐν ταῖς 
ὀρφανίαις περὶ τοὺς ὀρφανούς. ἢ γὰρ οὐ χρὴ 
ποιεῖσθαι παῖδας ἢ ξυνδιαταλαιπωρεῖν καὶ τρέ- 
φοντα καὶ παιδεύονται σὺ δέ μοι δοκεῖς τὰ 
ῥᾳθυμότατα αἱρεῖσθαι: χρὴ δέ, ἅπερ ἂν ἀνὴρ 
ἀγαθὸς καὶ ἀνδρεῖος ἕλοιτο, ταῦτα αἱρεῖσθαι, 
ἄσκοντά γε δὴ ἀρετῆς διὰ παντὸς τοῦ βίου 
ἐπιμελεῖσθαι: ὡς ἔγωγε καὶ ὑπὲρ σοῦ καὶ ὑπὲρ 
ἡμῶν τῶν σῶν ἐπιτηδείων αἰσχύνομαι, μὴ δόξῃ 
ἅπαν τὸ πρᾶγμα τὸ περὶ σὲ ἀνανδρίᾳ τινὶ τῇ 
1 After ξένοι the MSS. read οὗτοι, which Schanz brackets. 

158 


CRITO 


ought not to spend my money, there are foreigners 
here willing to spend theirs; and one of them, 
Simmias of Thebes, has brought for this especial 
purpose sufficient funds; and Cebes also and very many 
others are ready. So, as I say, do not give up saving 
yourself through fear of this. And do not be troubled 
by what you said in the court, that if you went away 
you would not know what to do with yourself. For 
in many other places, wherever you go, they will 
welcome you; and if you wish to go to Thessaly, 
I have friends there who wil) make much of you and 
will protect you, so that no one in Thessaly shall 
annoy you. 

And besides, Socrates, it seems to me the thing 
you are undertaking to do is not even right—betray- 
ing yourself when you might save yourself. And you 
are eager to bring upon yourself just what your 
enemies would wish and just what those were eager 
for who wished to destroy you. And moreover, I 
think you are abandoning your children, too, for 
when you might bring them up and educate them, 
you are going to desert them and go away, and, so 
far as you are concerned, their fortunes in life 
will be whatever they happen to meet with, and they 
will probably meet with such treatment as generally 
comes to orphans in their destitution. No. Either 
one ought not to beget children, or one ought 
to stay by them and bring them up and educate them. 
But you seem to me to be choosing the laziest way ; 
and you ought to choose as a good and brave man 
would choose, you who have been saying all your 
life. that you cared for virtue. So I am ashamed 
both for you and for us, your friends, and I am afraid 
people will think that this whole affair of yours has 


159 


40 


QO 


PLATO 


ἡμετέρᾳ πεπρᾶχθαι, καὶ ἡ εἴσοδος τῆς δίκης εἰς τὸ 
δικαστήριον. ὡς εἰσῆλθεν ἐξὸν μὴ εἰσελθεῖν, καὶ 
αὐτὸς ὁ ἀγὼν τῆς δίκης ὡς ἐγένετο, καὶ τὸ 
τελευταῖον δὴ τουτί, ὥσπερ κατάγελως τῆς 
πράξεως, κακίᾳ τινὶ καὶ ἀνανδρίᾳ τῇ ἡμετέρᾳ 
διαπεφευγέναι. ἡμᾶς δοκεῖν, οἵτινές σε οὐχὶ ἐσώ- 
σαμεν οὐδὲ σὺ σαυτόν, οἷόν τε ov Kat δυνατόν, εἴ 
Tt καὶ μικρὸν ἡμῶν ὄφελος ἦν. ταῦτα οὖν, ὦ 
Σώκρατες, ὅ ὅρα μὴ ἅμα τῷ κακῷ καὶ αἰσχρὰ ἢ σοί 
τε καὶ ἡμῖν. ἀλλὰ βουλεύου, μᾶλλον δὲ οὐδὲ 
βουλεύεσθαι Ett ὥρα, ἀλλὰ βεβουλεῦσθαι. μία 
δὲ βουλή" τῆς γὰρ ἐπιούσης νυκτὸς πάντα ταῦτα 
δεῖ ; πεπρᾶχθαι. εἰ δέ τι περιμενοῦμεν, ἀδύνατον 
καὶ οὐκέτι οἷόν τε. ἀλλὰ παντὶ τρόπῳ, ὧ Σώ- 
κρατες, πείθου μοι καὶ μηδαμῶς ἄλλως ποίει. 

6. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ὦ φίλε Κρίτων, ἡ προθυμία 
σου πολλοῦ ἀξία, εἰ μετά τινος ὀρθότητος εἴη" εἰ 
δὲ μή, ὅσῳ μείξων, τοσούτῳ χαλεπωτέρα. σκο- 
πεῖσθαι οὗν χρὴ ἡμᾶς, εἴτε ταῦτα πρακτέον εἴτε 
μή; ὡς ἐγὼ οὐ μόνον νῦν ἀλλὰ καὶ ἀεὶ τοιοῦτος, 
οἷος τῶν ἐμῶν μηδενὶ ἄλλῳ πείθεσθαι ἢ TO λόγῳ, 
ὃς ἄν μοι λογιξομένῳ βέλτιστος φαίνηται. τοὺς 
δὲ λόγους, οὺς ἐν τῷ ἔμπροσθεν ἔλεγον, οὐ δύ- 
νᾶμαι νῦν ἐκβαλεῖν, ἐπειδή μοι noe ἡ τύχη 
γέγονεν, ἀλλὰ σχεδόν τι ὅμοιοι φαίνονταί μοι, 
καὶ τοὺς αὐτοὺς πρεσβεύω καὶ τιμῶ οὕσπερ καὶ 
πρότερον" ὧν ἐὰν μὴ βελτίω ἔ ἔχωμεν λέγειν ἐν τῷ 
παρόντι, εὖ ἴσθι ὅτι οὐ μή σοι ξυγχωρήσω, οὐδ᾽ 
ἂν πλείω τῶν νῦν παρόντων ἡ τῶν πολλῶν 
δύναμις ὥσπερ παῖδας “ἡμᾶς μορμολύττηται, 
δεσμοὺς καὶ θανάτους ἐ ἐπιπέμπουσα καὶ χρημάτων 
ἀφαιρέσεις. πῶς οὖν ἂν μετριώτατα σκοποίμεθα 


160 


CRITO 


been conducted with a sort of cowardice on our part 
—both the fact that the case came before the court, 
when it might have been avoided, and the way in 
which the trial itself was carried on, and finally they 
will think, as the crowning absurdity of the whole 
affair, that this opportunity has escaped us through 
some base cowardice on our part, since we did 
not save you, and you did not save yourself, though 
it was quite possible if we had been of any use what- 
ever. Take care, Socrates, that these things be 
not disgraceful, as well as evil, both to you and to us. 
Just consider, or rather it is time not to consider any 
longer, but to have finished considering. And there 
is just one possible plan; forall this must be done in 
the coming night. And if we delay it can no longer 
be done. But I beg you, Socrates, do as I say and 
don’t refuse. 

socRATEs. My dear Crito, your eagerness is worth 
a great deal, if it should prove to be rightly directed ; 
but otherwise, the greater ‘it is, the more hard to 
bear. So we must examine the question whether we 
ought to do this or not; for 1 am not only now but 
always a man who follows nothing but the reasoning 
which on consideration seems to me best. And 
I cannot, now that this has happened to us, discard 
the arguments I used to advance, but they seem to 
me much the same as ever, and J revere and honour 
the same ones as before. And unless we can bring 
forward better ones in our present situation, be 
assured that I shall not give way to you, not even if 
the power of the multitude frighten us with even 
more terrors than at present, as children are fright- 
ened with goblins, threatening us with imprison- 
ments and deaths and confiscations of property. Now 


161 


47 


PLATO 


> , > Led X ~ \ ’ ᾽ / 
αὐτά; εἰ πρῶτον μὲν τοῦτον τὸν λόγον ἀναλά- 
Bowev, ὃν σὺ λέγεις περὶ τῶν δοξῶν, πότερον 
a ~~ 3 ς 7 a woo a \ a an 
καλῶς ἐλέγετο ἑκάστοτε ἢ οὔ, OTL ταῖς μὲν δεῖ τῶν 
δοξῶν προσέχειν τὸν νοῦν, ταῖς δὲ οὔ: ἢ πρὶν μὲν 
ΝΥΝ an ᾽ , a ea? a Ἢ 
ἐμὲ δεῖν ἀποθνήσκειν καλῶς ἐλέγετο, νῦν δὲ 
, Μ ’ f -“ bid σ 
κατάδηλος ἄρα ἐγένετο, ὅτε ἄλλως ἕνεκα λόγου 
ἐλέγετο, ἦν δὲ παιδιὰ καὶ φλυαρία ὡς ἀληθῶς; 
᾿Ὶ al > Ww tbe 7 φ if a 
ἐπιθυμῶ δ᾽ ἔγωγ᾽ ἐπισκέψασθαι, ὦ Κρίτων, κοινῇ 
\ “ » ’ 3 U ”~ > a 
μετὰ σοῦ, εἴ TL μοι ἀλλοιότερος φανεῖται, ἐπειδὴ 
ὧδε ἔχω, ἢ ὁ αὐτός, καὶ ἐάσομεν χαίρειν ἢ πει- 
σόμεθα αὐτῷ. ἐλέγετο δέ πως, ὡς ἐγῴμαι, ἑκά- 
στοτε WOE ὑπὸ τῶν οἰομένων τι λέγειν, ὥσπερ νῦν 
δὴ ἐγὼ ἔλεγον, ὅτε τῶν δοξῶν, ἃς οἱ ἄνθρωποι 
δοξάζουσιν, δέοι τὰς μὲν περὶ πολλοῦ ποιεῖσθαι, 
τὰς δὲ μή. τοῦτο πρὸς θεῶν, ὦ Κρίτων, οὐ δοκεῖ 
καλῶς σοι λέγεσθαι; σὺ γάρ, ὅσα ye τἀνθρώπεια, 
ἐκτὸς εἶ τοῦ μέλλειν ἀποθνήσκειν αὔριον, καὶ οὐκ 
ἄν σε παρακρούοι ἡ παροῦσα ξυμφορά' σκόπει δή: 
οὐχ ἱκανῶς δοκεῖ σοι λέγεσθαι, ὅτι οὐ πάσας χρὴ 
τὰς δόξας τῶν ἀνθρώπων τιμᾶν, ἀλλὰ τὰς μέν, τὰς 
δ᾽ οὔ; οὐδὲ πάντων, ἀλλὰ τῶν μέν, τῶν δ᾽ οὔ; τί 
la) n / 
φής; ταῦτα οὐχὶ καλῶς λέγεται; 
ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. Καλῶς. 
[2] Ἂν a 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν τὰς μὲν χρηστὰς τιμᾶν, τὰς 
δὲ πονηρὰς μή; 
[4 
ΚΡΙΤΩΝ, Ναί. 
« A 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Χρησταὶ δὲ οὐχ ai τῶν φρονίμων, 
a , 
“πονηραὶ δὲ at τῶν ἀφρόνων; 
A 3 
KPITON. Πῶς 8 οὔ; 
7. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Φέρε δή, πῶς αὖ τὰ τοιαῦτα 
ἐλέγετο; γυμναζόμενος ἀνὴρ καὶ τοῦτο πράττων 
162 


CRITO 


how could we examine the matter most reasonably ? 
By taking up first what you say about opinions and 
asking whether we were right when we always used 
to say that we ought to pay attention to some 
opinions and not to others? Or were we right 
before I was condemned to death, whereas it has 
now been made clear that we were talking merely 
for the sake of argument and it was really mere play 
and nonsense? And I wish to investigate, Crito, in 
common with you, and see whether our former 
argument seems different to me under our present 
conditions, or the same, and whether we shall give it 
up or be guided by it. But it used to be said, I 
think, by those who thought they were speaking 
sensibly, just as 1 was saying now, that of the 
opinions held by men some ought to be highly 
esteemed and others not. In God’s name, Crito, do 
you not think this is correct? For you, humanly 
speaking, are not involved in the necessity of dying 
to-morrow, and therefore present conditions would 
not lead your judgment astray. Now say, do you 
not think we were correct in saying that we ought 
not to esteem all the opinions of men, but some 
and not others, and not those of all men, but only of 
some? What do you think? Is not this true? 

critTo. It is. 

socraTes. Then we ought to esteem the good 
opinions and not the bad ones? 

criTo. Yes. 

socraTes. And the good ones are those of the 
wise and the bad ones those of the foolish ? 

crito. Of course. 

SOCRATES. Come then, what used we to say about 
this? Ifa man is an athlete and makes that his 


163 


PLATO 


πότερον παντὸς ,ἀνδρὸς ἐπαίνῳ καὶ ψόγῳ καὶ δόξῃ 
τὸν νοῦν “προσέχει, ἢ ἑνὸς μόνου ἐκείνου, ὃς ἂν 
τυγχάνῃ ἰατρὸς ἢ παιδοτρίβης ὦν; 

ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. Ἑνὸς μόνου. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν φοβεῖσθαι χρὴ τοὺς ψόγους 
καὶ ἀσπάζεσθαι τοὺς ἐπαίνους τοὺς τοῦ ἑνὸς 
ἐκείνου, ἀλλὰ μὴ τοὺς τῶν πολλῶν. 

ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. Δῆλα δή. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ταύτῃ ἄρα αὐτῷ πρακτέον καὶ 
γυμναστέον καὶ ἐδεστέον γε καὶ ποτέον, ἣ ἂν τῷ 
ἑνὶ δοκῇ τῷ ἐπιστάτῃ καὶ ἐπαΐοντι, μᾶλλον ἢ ἡ 
ξύμπασι τοῖς ἄλλοις. 

KPITON. Ἔστι ταῦτα. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Εἶεν. ἀπειθήσας δὲ τῷ ἑνὶ καὶ 
ἀτιμάσας αὐτοῦ τὴν δόξαν καὶ τοὺς ἐπαίνους," 
τιμήσας δὲ τοὺς τῶν πολλῶν λόγους καὶ μηδὲν 
ἐπαϊόντων, ρα οὐδὲν κακὸν πείσεται; 

ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. Πῶς γὰρ οὔ; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ti δ᾽ ἔστι τὸ κακὸν τοῦτο; καὶ ποῖ 
τείνει, καὶ εἰς τί τῶν τοῦ ἀπειθοῦντος; 

ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. Δῆλον ὅτι εἰς τὸ σῶμα: τοῦτο γὰρ 
διολλύει. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Καλῶς λέγεις. οὐκοῦν καὶ τἄλλα, 
ὦ Κρίτων, οὕτως, ἵνα μὴ πάντα διΐωμεν, καὶ δὴ 
καὶ περὶ τῶν δικαίων καὶ ἀδίκων καὶ αἰσχρῶν καὶ 
καλῶν καὶ ἀγαθῶν καὶ κακῶν, περὶ ὧν νῦν ἡ 
βουλὴ ἡμῖν ἐστιν, πότερον τῇ τῶν πολλῶν δόξῃ 
δεῖ ἡμᾶς ἕπεσθαι καὶ φοβεῖσθαι αὐτὴν ἢ τῇ τοῦ 
ἑνός, εἴ τίς ἐστιν ἐπαΐων, ὃν δεῖ καὶ αἰσχύνεσθαι 
καὶ φοβεῖσθαι μᾶλλον ἢ ξύμπαντας τοὺς ἄλλους; 
ᾧ εἰ μὴ ἀκολουθήσομεν, διαφθεροῦμεν ἐκεῖνο καὶ 

1 Schanz, following Burges, brackets καὶ τοὺς ἐπαίνους. 


164 


CRITO 


business, does he pay attention to every man’s praise 
and blame and opinion or to those of one man only 
who is a physician or a trainer ? 

crito. To those of one man only. 

socraTEs. Then he ought to fear the blame and 
welcome the praise of that one man and not of the 
multitude. 

crito. Obviously. 

socraTes. And he must act and exercise and eat 
and drink as the one man who is his director and 
who knows the business thinks best rather than as 
all the others think. 

σατο. That is true. 

socraTEs. Well then; if he disobeys the one man 
and disregards his opinion and his praise, but regards 
the words of the many who have no special know- 
ledge, will he not come to harm? 

crito. Of course he will. 

socraTes. And what is this harm? In what 
direction and upon what part of the one who 
disobeys does it act? 

crito. Evidently upon his body; for that is what 
it ruins. 

socraTEs. Right. ‘Then in other matters, not to 
enumerate them all, in questions of right and 
wrong and disgraceful and noble and good and bad, 
which we are now considering, ought we to follow 
and fear the opinion of the many or that of the one, 
if there is anyone who knows about them, whom we 
ought to revere and fear more than all the others? 
And if we do not follow him, we shall injure and 
cripple that which we used to say is benefited by 


165 


48 


PLATO 


λωβησόμεθα, ὃ τῷ μὲν δικαίῳ βέλτιον ἐγίγνετο, 
τῷ δὲ ἀδίκῳ ἀπώλλυτο. ἢ οὐδέν ἐστι τοῦτο; 

KPITAN. Οἶμαι ἔγωγε, ὦ Σώκρατες. 

8. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Φέρε δή, ἐὰν τὸ ὑπὸ τοῦ ὑγιεινοῦ 
μὲν βέλτιον γιγνόμενον, ὑπὸ τοῦ νοσώδους δὲ 
διαφθειρόμενον διολέσωμεν πειθόμενοι μὴ τῇ τῶν 
ἐπαϊόντων δόξῃ, ἄρα βιωτὸν ἡμῖν ἐστιν διεφθαρ- 
μένου αὐτοῦ; ἔστι δέ που τοῦτο σῶμα: ἢ οὐχί; 

Κριτων. Ναί. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. "Ap’ οὖν βιωτὸν ἡμῖν ἐστιν μετὰ 
μοχθηροῦ καὶ διεφθαρμένου σώματος; 

ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. Οὐδαμῶς. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Αλλὰ μετ᾽ ἐκείνου ἄρ᾽ ἡμῖν βιωτὸν 
διεφθαρμένου, ᾧ τὸ ἄδικον μὲν λωβᾶται, τὸ δὲ 
δίκαιον ὀνίνησιν; ἢ φαυλότερον ἡγούμεθα εἶναι 
τοῦ σώματος ἐκεῖνο, ὅ τί TOT ἐστὶ τῶν ἡμετέρων, 
περὶ ὃ ἥ τε ἀδικία καὶ ἡ δικαιοσύνη ἐστίν; 

ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. Οὐδαμῶς. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ᾿Αλλὰ τιμιώτερον; 

ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. Πολύ γε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκ ἄρα, ὦ βέλτιστε, πάνυ ἡμῖν 
οὕτω φροντιστέον, τί ἐροῦσιν οἱ πολλοὶ ἡμᾶς, 
ἀλλ᾽ ὅ τι ὁ ἐπαΐων περὶ τῶν δικαίων καὶ ἀδίκων, 
ὁ εἷς, καὶ αὐτὴ ἡ ἀλήθεια. ὥστε πρῶτον μὲν 
ταύτῃ οὐκ ὀρθῶς εἰσηγεῖ, εἰσηγούμενος τῆς τῶν 
πολλῶν δόξης δεῖν ἡμᾶς φροντίζειν περὶ τῶν 
δικαίων καὶ καλῶν καὶ ἀγαθῶν καὶ τῶν ἐναντίων. 
ἀλλὰ μὲν δή, φαίη γ᾽ ἄν τις, οἷοί τέ εἰσιν ἡμᾶς οἱ 
πολλοὶ ἀποκτιννύναι. 

ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. Δῆλα δὴ καὶ ταῦτα' φαίη γὰρ ay,’ ὦ 
Σώκρατες. 

1 φαίη γὰρ ἂν bracketed by Schanz. 
166 


CRITO 


the right and is ruined by the wrong. Or is there 
nothing in this? 

criTo. I think it is true, Socrates. 

socraTes, Well then, if through yielding to the 
opinion of the ignorant we ruin that which is 
benefited by health and injured by disease, is life 
worth living for us when that is ruined? And that 
is the body, is it not ὃ 

criro. Yes. 

socraTes. Then is life worth living when the 
body is worthless and ruined ? 

criTo. Certainly not. 

socraTes. But is it worth living when that is 
ruined which is injured by the wrong and improved 
by the right? Or do we think that part of us, 
whatever it is, which is concerned with right and 
wrong, is less important than the body ? 

crito. By no means. 

socraATEs. But more important? 

crite. Much more. 

socraTes. Then, most excellent friend, we must 
not consider at all what the many will say of us, 
but what he who knows about right and wrong, the 
one man, and truth herself will say. And so you 
introduced the discussion wrongly in the first place, 
when you began by saying we ought to consider the 
opinion of the multitude about the right and the 
noble and the good and their opposites. But it 
might, of course, be said that the multitude can 
put us to death. 

crito. That is clear, too. It would be said, 
Socrates. 


167 


PLATO 


ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ᾿Αληθῆ λέγεις. ἀλλ᾽, ὦ θαυμάσιε, 
οὗτός τε ὃ λόγος ὃν διεληλύθαμεν, ἔμοιγε δοκεῖ 
ἔτι ὅμοιος εἶναι καὶ πρότερον" καὶ τόνδε αὖ 
σκόπει, εἰ ἔτι μένει ἡμῖν ἢ οὔ, ὅτι οὐ τὸ ζῆν περὶ 
πλείστου ποιητέον, ἀλλὰ τὸ εὖ ζῆν. 

KPITON. ᾿Αλλὰ μένει. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τὸ δὲ εὖ καὶ καλῶς καὶ δικαίως ὅτι 
ταὐτόν ἐστιν, μένει ἢ οὐ μένει; 

KPITON. Μένει. 

9. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν ἐκ τῶν ὁμολογουμένων 
τοῦτο σκεπτέον, πότερον δίκαιον ἐμὲ ἐνθένδε 
πειρᾶσθαι ἐξιέναι μὴ ἀφιέντων ᾿Αθηναίων ἢ οὐ 
δίκαιον" καὶ ἐὰν μὲν φαίνηται δίκαιον, πειρώμεθα, 
εἰ δὲ μή, ἐῶμεν. ἃς δὲ σὺ λέγεις τὰς σκέψεις περί 
τε ἀναλώσεως χρημάτων καὶ δόξης καὶ παίδων 
τροφῆς, μὴ ὡς ἀχηθῶς ταῦτα, ὧ Κρίτων, σκέμματα 
uh τῶν ῥᾳδίως a ἀποκτιννύντων καὶ ἀναβιωσκομένων 
y ἄν, εἰ οἷοί T ἦσαν, οὐδενὶ ξὺν νῷ, τούτων τῶν 
πολλῶν. ἡμῖν δ᾽, ἐπειδὴ ὁ ὁ λόγος. οὕτως αἱρεῖ, μὴ 
οὐδὲν ἄλλο σκεπτέον ἡ ἢ ὅπερ νῦν δὴ ἐλέγομεν, 
πότερον δίκαια πράξομεν καὶ χρήματα τελοῦντες 
τούτοις τοῖς ἐμὲ ἐνθένδε ἐξάξουσιν καὶ χάριτας, 
καὶ αὐτοὶ ἐξάγοντές τε καὶ ἐξαγόμενοι, Ἴ 77 
ἀληθείᾳ ἀδικήσομεν πάντα ταῦτα ποιοῦντες" κἂν 
φαινώμεθα ἄδικα αὐτὰ ἐργαζόμενοι, μὴ οὐ δέῃ 
ὑπολογίξεσθαι. οὔτ᾽ εἰ ἀποθνήσκειν δεῖ παρα- 
μένοντας καὶ ἡσυχίαν ἄγοντας, οὔτε ἄλλο ὁτιοῦν 
πάσχειν πρὸ τοῦ ἀδικεῖν. 


1 Schanz gives ἀληθῆ λέγεις to Crito. 

2 The usual reading, ἔμοιγε δοκεῖ ὅμοιος εἶναι τῷ καὶ πρότερον 
was corrected by Schanz, who follows a quotation of the 
passage by Priscian. 


168 


CRITO 


socraTEs. That is true. But, my friend, the 
argument we have just finished seems to me still 
much the same as before ; and now see whether we 
still hold to this, or not, that it is not living, but living 
well which we ought to consider most important. 

criro. We do hold to it. 

socraTEs. And that living well and living rightly 
ure the same thing, do we hold to that, or not ? 

crito. We do. 

socraTES. Then we agree that the question is 
whether it is right for me to try to escape from here 
without the permission of the Athenians, or not 
right. And if it appears to be right, let us try it, 
and if not, let us give it up. But the considerations 
you suggest, about spending money, and reputation, 
and bringing up my children, these are really, Crito, 
the reflections of those who lightly put men to 
death, and would bring them to life again, if they 
could, without any sense, I mean the multitude. 
But we, since our argument so constrains us, 
must consider only the question we just broached, 
whether we shall be doing right in giving money 
and thanks to these men who will help me to 
escape, and in escaping or aiding the escape our- 
selves, or shall in truth be doing wrong, if we do 
all these things. And if it appears that it is wrong 
for us to do them, it may be that we ought not to 
consider either whether we must die if we stay here 
and keep quiet or whether we must endure any- 
thing else whatsoever, but only the question of doing 
wrong. 


169 


49 


PLATO 


KPITAN. Καλῶς μέν μοι δοκεῖς λέγειν, ὦ Lo- 
κρατες. ὅρα δέ, τί δρῶμεν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Σκοπῶμεν, ὦ ἀγαθέ, κοινῇ, καὶ εἴ 
πη ἔχεις ἀντιλέγειν ἐμοῦ λέγοντος, ἀντίλεγε, καί 
σοι πείσομαι: εἰ δὲ μή, παῦσαι ἤδη, ὦ μακάριε, 
πολλάκις μοι λέγων τὸν αὐτὸν λόγον, ὡς χρὴ 
ἐνθένδε ἀκόντων ᾿Αθηναίων ἐμὲ ἀπιέναι: ὡς ἐγὼ 
περὶ πολλοῦ ποιοῦμαι πείσας σε ταῦτα πράττειν, 
ἀλλὰ μὴ ἄκοντος. ὅρα δὲ δὴ τῆς σκέψεως τὴν 
ἀρχήν, ἐάν σοι ἱκανῶς λέγηται, καὶ πειρῶ ἀποκρί- 
νεσθαι τὸ ἐρωτώμενον, 7 ἂν μάλιστα οἴῃ. 

KPITON. ᾿Αλλὰ πειράσομαι. 

10. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐδενὶ τρόπῳ φαμὲν ἑκόντας 
ἀδικητέον εἶναι, ἢ τινὶ μὲν ἀδικητέον τρόπῳ, τινὶ 
δὲ οὔ; ἢ οὐδαμῶς τό γε ἀδικεῖν οὔτε ἀγαθὸν οὔτε 
καλόν, ὡς πολλάκις ἡμῖν καὶ ἐν τῷ ἔμπροσθεν 
χρόνῳ ὡμολογήθη; ἢ πᾶσαι ἡμῖν ἐκεῖναι αἱ 
πρόσθεν ὁμολογίαι ἐν ταῖσδε ταῖς ὀλίγαις ἡμέραις 
ἐκκεχυμέναι εἰσίν, καὶ πάλαι, ὦ Κρίτων, ἄρα 
τηλικοίδε" ἄνδρες πρὸς ἀλλήλους σπουδῇ δια- 
λεγόμενοι ἐλάθομεν ἡμᾶς αὐτοὺς παίδων οὐδὲν 
διαφέροντες; ἢ παντὸς μᾶλλον οὕτως ἔχει, ὥσπερ 
τότε ἐλέγετο ἡμῖν, εἴτε φασὶν οἱ πολλοὶ εἴτε μή, 
καὶ εἴτε δεῖ ἡμᾶς ἔτι τῶνδε χαλεπώτερα πάσχειν 
εἴτε καὶ πρᾳότερα, ὅμως τό γε ἀδικεῖν τῷ ἀδι- 
κοῦντι καὶ κακὸν καὶ αἰσχρὸν τυγχάνει ὃν παντὶ 
τρόπῳ; φαμὲν ἢ οὔ; 

ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. Papév. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐδαμῶς ἄρα δεῖ ἀδικεῖν. 


1 The words ὅπερ καὶ ἄρτι ἐλέγετο, ‘‘as has just been said, 
too,” follow in the MSS. but are omitted by Schanz and 
others. 2 χηλικοίδε γέροντες MSS. 


170 


CRITO 


crito. I think what you say is right, Socrates ; 
but think what we should do. 

socraTES. Let us, my good friend, investigate in 
common, and if you can contradict anything I say, 
do so, and I will yield to your arguments ; but if you 
cannot, my dear friend, stop at once saying the same 
thing to me over and over, that I ought to go away 
from here without the consent of the Athenians; 
for I am anxious to act in this matter with your 
approval, and not contrary to your wishes. Now 
see if the beginning of the investigation satisfies you, 
and try to reply to my questions to the best of your 
belief. 

crito. I will try. 

SOCRATES. Ought we in no way to do wrong in- 
tentionally, or should we do wrong in some ways but 
not in others? Or, as we often agreed in former 
times, is it never right or honourable to do wrong? 
Or have all those former conclusions of ours been 
overturned in these few days, and have we old men, 
seriously conversing with each other, failed all along 
to see that we were no better than children? Oy is 
not what we used to say most certainly true, whether 
the world agree or not? And whether we must 
endure still more grievous sufferings than these, or 
lighter ones, is not wrongdoing inevitably an evil and 
a disgrace to the wrongdoer? Do we believe this or 
not ὃ 

crito. We do. 

socraTes. Then we ought not to do wrong at all. 


171 


PLATO 


KPITON. Οὐ δῆτα. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐδὲ ἀδικούμενον ἄρα ἀνταδικεῖν, 
ὡς οἱ πολλοὶ οἴονται, ἐπειδή γε οὐδαμῶς δεῖ 
ἀδικεῖν. 

KPITAN. Οὐ φαίνεται. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί δὲ δή; κακουργεῖν δεῖ, ὦ Κρίτων, 
ἢ οὔ; 

KPITON. Οὐ δεῖ δή που, ὦ Σώκρατες. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί δέ; ἀντικακουργεῖν κακῶς πά- 
σχοντα, ὡς οἱ πολλοί φασιν, δίκαιον ἢ οὐ 
δίκαιον; 

ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. Οὐδαμῶς. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τὸ γάρ που κακῶς ποιεῖν ἀνθρώπους 
τοῦ ἀδικεῖν οὐδὲν διαφέρει. 

KPITAN. ᾿Αληθῆ λέγεις. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὔτε ἄρα ἀνταδικεῖν δεῖ οὔτε κακῶς 
ποιεῖν οὐδένα ἀνθρώπων, οὐδ᾽ ἂν ὁτιοῦν πάσχῃ 
ὑπ᾽ αὐτῶν. καὶ ὅρα, ὧ Κρίτων, ταῦτα καθομο- 
λογῶν, ὅπως μὴ παρὰ δόξαν ὁμολογῇς. οἶδα γάρ, 
ὅτι ὀλίγοις τισὶ ταῦτα καὶ δοκεῖ καὶ δόξει. οἷς 
οὖν οὕτω δέδοκται καὶ οἷς μή, τούτοις οὐκ ἔστι 
κοινὴ βουλή, ἀλλὰ ἀνάγκη τούτους ἀλλήλων 
καταφρονεῖν, ὁρῶντας τὰ ἀλλήλων βουλεύματα. 
σκόπει δὴ οὖν καὶ σὺ εὖ μάλα, πότερον κοινωνεῖς 
καὶ ξυνδοκεῖ σοι, καὶ ἀρχώμεθα ἐντεῦθεν βουλευό- 
μενοι, ὡς οὐδέποτε ὀρθῶς é ἔχοντος οὔτε τοῦ ἀδικεῖν 
οὔτε τοῦ ἀνταδικεῖν οὔτε κακῶς πάσχοντα ἀμύ- 
νεσθαι ἀντιδρῶντα κακῶς" ἢ ἀφίστασαι, καὶ οὐ 
κοινωνεῖς ΤῊΣ, ἀρχῆς; ἐμοὶ μὲν γὰρ καὶ πάλαι 
οὕτω καὶ νῦν ἔτι δοκεῖ, σοὶ δὲ εἴ πῃ ἄλλῃ δέδοκται, 
λέγε καὶ δίδασκε. εἰ δ᾽ ἐμμένεις τοῖς πρόσθε, τὸ 
μετὰ τοῦτο ἄκουε. 

172 


CRITO 


crito. Why, no. 

socRATES. And we ought not even to requite 
wrong with wrong, as the world thinks, since we 
must not do wrong at all. 

crito. Apparently not. 

socraTES. Well, Crito, ought one to do evil or 
not? 

crito. Certainly not, Socrates. 

socraTEs. Well, then, is it right to requite evil 
with evil, as the world says it is, or not right? 

crito. Not right, certainly. 

socraTEs. For doing evil to people is the same 
thing as wronging them. 

criro. That is true. 

socraTEs. ‘Then we ought neither to requite wrong 
with wrong nor to do evil to anyone, no matter what 
he may have done to us. And be careful, Crito, that 
you do not, in agreeing to this, agree to something 
you do not believe ; for I know that there are few 
who believe or ever will believe this. Now those 
who believe this, and those who do not, have no 
common ground of discussion, but they must neces- 
sarily, in view of their opinions, despise one another. 
Do you therefore consider very carefully whether 
you agree and share in this opinion, and let us take 
as the starting point of our discussion the assumption 
that it is never right to do wrong or to requite wrong 
with wrong, or when we suffer evil to defend our- 
selves by doing evil in return. Or do you disagree 
and refuse your assent to this starting point? For I 
have long held this belief and I hold it yet, but if 
you have reached any other conclusion, speak and 
explain it to me. If you still hold to our former 
opinion, hear the next point. 


173 


PLATO 


KPITON. ‘AXA ἐμμένω τε καὶ ξυνδοκεῖ por: 
ἀλλὰ λέγε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Λέγω δὴ αὖ τὸ μετὰ τοῦτο, μᾶλλον 
δ᾽ ἐρωτῶ" πότερον ἃ ἄν τις ὁμολογήσῃ τῳ δίκαια 
ὄντα ποιητέον ἢ ἐξαπατητέον; 

ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. Ποιητέον. 

11. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἔκ τούτων δὴ ἄθρει. ἀπιόντες 
ἐνθένδε ἡμεῖς μὴ πείσαντες τὴν πόλιν πότερον 
κακῶς τινας ποιοῦμεν, καὶ ταῦτα οὗὑς ἥκιστα 
δεῖ, ἢ οὔ; καὶ ,ἐμμένομεν οἷς ὡμολογήσαμεν 
δικαίοις οὖσιν ἢ οὔ; 

KPITON. Οὐκ ἔχω, ὦ Σώκρατες, ἀποκρίνασθαι 
πρὸς ὃ ἐρωτᾷς" οὐ γὰρ ἐννοῶ. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Αλλ᾽ Bde σκόπει. εἰ μέλλουσιν 
ἡμῖν ἐνθένδε εἴτε ἀποδιδράσκειν, εἴθ᾽ ὅπως δεῖ 
ὀνομάσαι τοῦτο, ἐλθόντες οἱ νόμοι καὶ τὸ κοινὸν 
τῆς πόλεως ἐπιστάντες ἔροιντο' εἰπέ μοι, ὦ 
Σώκρατες, τί ἐν νῷ ἔχεις ποιεῖν; ἄλλο τι 
ἢ τούτῳ τῷ ἔργῳ, ᾧ ἐπιχειρεῖς, διανοεῖ τούς 
τε νόμους ἡμᾶς ἀπολέσαι καὶ ξύμπασαν τὴν 
πόλιν τὸ σὸν μέρος; ἢ δοκεῖ σοι οἷόν τε ἔτι 
ἐκείνην τὴν πόλιν εἶναι καὶ μὴ ἀνατετράφθαι, 
ἐν ἡ αἱ γενόμεναι δίκαι μηδὲν ἰσχύουσιν, ἀλλὰ 
ὑπὸ ἰδιωτῶν ἄκυροί τε γίγνονται καὶ διαφθεί- 
ρονται; τί ἐροῦμεν, ὦ Κρίτων, πρὸς ταῦτα καὶ 
ἄλλα τοιαῦτα; πολλὰ γὰρ ἄν THs ἔχοι, ἄλλως 
τε καὶ ῥήτωρ, εἰπεῖν ὑπὲρ τούτου τοῦ νόμου 
ἀπολλυμένου, ὃς τὰς δίκας τὰς δικασθείσας 
προστάττει κυρίας. εἶναι. ἢ ἐροῦμεν πρὸς αὐτούς, 
ὅτι ἠδίκει γὰρ ἡμᾶς ἡ πόλις καὶ οὐκ ὀρθῶς τὴν 
δίκην ἔκρινεν; ταῦτα ἢ τί ἐροῦμεν; 

ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. Ταῦτα νὴ Δία, ὦ Σώκρατες. 


174 


CRITO 


crito. I do hold to it and I agree with you; so 
go on. 

socraTes. Now the next thing I say, or rather 
ask, is this: “ ought a man to do what he has agreed 
to do, provided it is right, or may he violate his 
agreements?” 

crito. He ought to do it. 

socraTes. Then consider whether, if we go away 
from here without the consent of the state, we are 
doing harm to the very ones to whom we least ought 
to do harm, or not, and whether we are abiding by 
what we agreed was right, or not. 

crito. I cannot answer your question, Socrates, 
for I do not understand. 

socRATES. Consider it in this way. If,as I was en 
the point of running away (or whatever it should be 
called), the laws and the commonwealth should come 
to me and ask, “ Tell me, Socrates, what have you 
in mind to do? Are you not intending by this thing 
you are trying to do, to destroy us, the laws, and the 
entire state, so far as in you lies? Or do you think 
that state can exist and not be overturned, in which 
the decisions reached by the courts have no force 
but are made invalid and annulled by private per- 
sons?’ What shall we say, Crito, in reply to this 
question and others of the same kind? For one 
might say many things, especially if one were an 
orator, about the destruction of that law which 
provides that the decisions reached by the courts 
shall be valid. Or shall we say to them, “ The state 
wronged me and did not judge the case rightly ” ? 
Shall we say that, or what? 

σατο. That is what we shall say, by Zeus, 
Socrates. 


Ε79 


5] 


PLATO 


12 ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί οὖν, ἂν εἴπωσιν οἱ νόμοι" 
ὧ Σώκρατες, ἢ καὶ ταῦτα ὡμολόγητο ἡμῖν τε 
καὶ ool, ἢ ἐμμένειν ταῖς δίκαις αἷς ἂν ἡ πόλις 
δικάζη; εἰ οὖν αὐτῶν θαυμάζοιμεν λεγόντων, 
ἴσως ἂν εἴποιεν ὅτι ὦ Σώκρατες, μὴ θαύμαζε 
τὰ λεγόμενα, ἀλλ᾽ ἀποκρίνου, ἐπειδὴ καὶ εἴωθας 
χρῆσθαι τῷ ἐρωτᾶν τε καὶ ἀποκρίνεσθαι. φέρε 
γάρ, τί ἐγκαλῶν ἡμῖν καὶ τῇ πόλει ἐπιχειρεῖς 
ἡμᾶς ἀπολλύναι; οὐ πρῶτον μέν σε ἐγεννήσαμεν 
ἡμεῖς, καὶ δι᾽ ἡμῶν ἐλάμβανεν τὴν μητέρα σου 
0 πατὴρ καὶ ἐφύτευσέν σε; φράσον οὖν, τούτοις 
ἡμῶν, τοῖς νόμοις } τοῖς περὶ τοὺς γάμους, μέμφει 
τι, ὡς οὐ καλῶς ἔχουσιν; οὐ μέμφομαι, φαίην 
ἄν. ἀχλὰ τοῖς περὶ τὴν τοῦ γενομένου τροφήν 
τε καὶ παιδείαν, ἐν ἡ καὶ σὺ ἐπαιδεύθης; ἢ οὐ 
καλῶς προσέταττον ἡμῶν οἱ ἐπὶ τούτοις τε- 
ταγμένοι “νόμοι, παραγγέλλοντες τῷ πατρὶ τῷ 
σῷ σε ἐν μουσικῇ καὶ γυμναστικῇ παιδεύειν; 
καλῶς, φαίην ἄν. εἶεν. ἐπειδὴ δὲ ἐγένου τε 
καὶ ἐξετράφης καὶ ἐπαιδεύθης, ἔχοις ἂν εἰπεῖν 
πρῶτον μὲν ὡς οὐχὶ ἡμέτερος ἦσθα καὶ ἔκγονος 
καὶ δοῦλος, αὐτός τε καὶ οἱ σοὶ πρόγονοι; καὶ 
εἰ τοῦθ᾽ οὕτως ἔχει, ἄρ᾽ ἐξ ἴσου οἴει εἶναι σοὶ 
τὸ δίκαιον καὶ ἡμῖν, καὶ ἅττ᾽ ἂν ἡμεῖς σε 
ἐπιχειρῶμεν ποιεῖν, καὶ σοὶ ταῦτα ἀντιποιεῖν 
οἴει δίκαιον εἶναι; ἢ πρὸς μὲν ἄρα σοι τὸν πατέρα 
οὐκ ἐξ ἴσου ἦν τὸ δίκαιον καὶ πρὸς τὸν δεσπότην, 
εἴ σοι ὧν ἐτύγχανεν, ὥστε, ἅπερ πάσχοις, ταῦτα 
καὶ ἀντιποιεῖν, οὔτε κακῶς ἀκούοντα ἀντιλέγειν 
οὔτε τυπτόμενον ἀντιτύπτειν οὔτε ἄλλα τοιαῦτα 
πολλά: πρὸς δὲ τὴν πατρίδα ἄρα καὶ τοὺς νόμους 

1 Schanz omits τοῖς νόμοις. 7 Schanz omits νόμοι. 


176 


CRITO 


socraTes. What then if the laws should say, 
“Socrates, is this the agreement you made with us, 
or did you agree to abide by the verdicts pronounced 
by the state?”” Now if I were surprised by what 
they said, perhaps they would continue, “ Don’t be 
surprised at what we say, Socrates, but answer, since 
you are in the habit of employing the method of ques- 
tion andanswer. Come, what fault do you find with 
us and the state, that you are trying to destroy us? 
In the first place, did we not bring you forth? Is 
it not through us that your father married your 
mother and begat you? Now tell us, have you any 
fault to find with those of us who are the laws of 
marriage?” 

“1 find no fault,” I should say. “Οὐ with those 
that have to do with the nurture of the child after 
he is born and with his education which you, like 
others, received? Did those of us who are assigned 
to these matters not give good directions when we 
told your father to educate you in music and gym- 
nastics?” “ You did,’ I should say. ‘“ Wel] then, 
when you were born and nurtured and educated, 
could you say to begin with that you were not our 
offspring and our slave, you yourself and your 
ancestors? And if this is so, do you think right as 
between you and us rests on a basis of equality, so 
that whatever we undertake to do to you it is right 
for you to retaliate? There was no such equality of 
right between you and your father or your master, 
if you had one, so that whatever treatment you 
received you might return it, answering them if you 
were reviled, or striking back if you were struck, and 


the like; and do you think that it will be proper for 


177 


PLATO 


€éxtat' σοι, ὥστε, ἐάν σε ἐπιχειρῶμεν ἡμεῖς 
ἀπολλύναι δίκαιον ἡγούμενοι εἶναι, καὶ σὺ δὲ 
ἡμᾶς τοὺς νόμους καὶ τὴν πατρίδα, καθ᾽ ὅσον 
δύνασαι, ἐπιχειρήσεις ἀνταπολλύναι, καὶ φήσεις 
ταῦτα ποιῶν δίκαια πράττειν, 0 τῇ ἀληθείᾳ τῆς 
ἀρετῆς ἐπιμελόμενος; ἢ οὕτως εἶ σοφός, ὥστε 
λέληθέν σε, ὅτι μητρός τε καὶ πατρὸς καὶ τῶν 
ἄλλων προγόνων ἁπάντων τιμιώτερόν ἐστιν ἡ 
πατρὶς καὶ σεμνότερον καὶ ἁγιώτερον καὶ ἐν μεί- 
ζονι μοίρᾳ καὶ παρὰ θεοῖς καὶ παρ ᾿ ἀνθρώποις τοῖς 
νοῦν ἔχουσι, καὶ σέβεσθαι δεῖ καὶ μᾶλλον ὑ ὑπείκειν 
καὶ θωπεύειν πατρίδα χαλεπαίνουσαν ἢ ἢ πατέρα, 
καὶ ἢ πείθειν a ποιεῖν ἃ ἂν κελεύῃ, καὶ πάσχειν, 
ἐάν τι προστάττῃ παθεῖν, ἡσυχίαν ἄγοντα, ἐάν 
τε τύπτεσθαι ἐάν τε δεῖσθαι, ἐάν τε εἰς πόλεμον 
ἄγῃ τρωθησόμενον ἢ ἀποθανούμενον, ποιητέον 
ταῦτα, καὶ τὸ δίκαιον οὕτως ἔχει, καὶ οὐχὶ 
ὑπεικτέον οὐδὲ ἀναχωρητέον οὐδὲ λειπτέον τὴν 
τάξιν, ἀλλὰ καὶ ἐν πολέμῳ καὶ ἐν δικαστηρίῳ 
καὶ πανταχοῦ ποιητέον ἃ ἂν κελεύῃ ἡ πόλις 
καὶ ἡ πατρίς, ἢ πείθειν αὐτὴν ὗ τὸ δίκαιον 
πέφυκε, βιάξεσθαι δὲ οὐχ ὅσιον. οὔτε μητέρα 
οὔτε πατέρα, πολὺ δὲ τούτων ἔτι ἧττον τὴν 
πατρίδα; τί φήσομεν πρὸς “Ταῦτα, ὦ Κρίτων; 
ἀληθῆ λέγειν τοὺς νόμους ἢ οὔ; 

KPITON. “Eyouye δοκεῖ. 

13, ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Σκόπει τοίνυν, ὦ “Σώκρατες, 
φαῖεν ἂν ἴσως οἱ νόμοι, εἰ ἡμεῖς ταῦτα ἀληθῆ 
λέγομεν, ὅτι οὐ δίκαια ἡμᾶς ἐπιχειρεῖς δρᾶν ἃ 
νῦν ἐπιχειρεῖς. ἡμεῖς γάρ σε γεννήσαντες, ἐκθρέ- 
ψαντες, παιδεύσαντες, μεταδόντες ἁπάντων ὧν 
1 So Schanz, ἐξέσται BCE, 


178 


CRITO 


you to act so toward your country and the laws, so that 
if we undertake to destroy you, thinking it is right, you 
will undertake in return to destroy us laws and your 
country, so far as you are able, and will say that in doing 
this you are doing right, you who really care for virtue ? 
Or is your wisdom such that you do not see that your 
country is more precious and more to be revered and is 
holier and in higher esteem among the gods and among 
men of understanding than your mother and your 
father and all your ancestors, and that you ought to 
show to her more reverence and obedience and hu- 
mility when she is angry than to your father, and ought 
either to convince her by persuasion or to do whatever 
she commands, and to suffer, if she commands you to 
suffer, in silence, and if she orders you to be scourged 
or imprisoned or if she leads you to war to be wounded 
or slain, her will is to be done, and this is right, and 
you must not give way or draw back or leave your 
post, but in war and in court and everywhere, you 
must do whatever the state, your country, commands, 
or must show her by persuasion what is really right, 
but that it is impious to use violence against either 
your father or your mother, and much more impious 
to use it against yourcountry?’’ What shall we reply 
to this, Crito, that the laws speak the truth, or not? 

crito. I think they do. 

socraTes. ‘ Observe then, Socrates,” perhaps the 
laws would say, “that if what we say is true, what 
you are now undertaking to do to us is not right. 
For we brought you into the world, nurtured you, 
and gave a share of all the good things we could to 


179 


PLATO 


/ a A “ 
D οἷοί 7 ἦμεν καλῶν σοὶ καὶ τοῖς ἄλλοις πᾶσιν 


52 


πολίταις, ὅμως προαγορεύομεν τῷ ἐξουσίαν 
πεποιηκέναι ᾿Αθηναίων τῷ βουλομένῳ, ἐπειδὰν 
δοκιμασθῇ καὶ ἴδῃ τὰ ἐἐν τῇ πόλει πράγματα 
καὶ ἡμᾶς τοὺς νόμους, ᾧ ἂν μὴ ἀρέσκωμεν ἡμεῖς, 
ἐξεῖναι λαβόντα τὰ αὑτοῦ ἀπιέναι ὅποι ἂν 
βούληται. καὶ οὐδεὶς ἡμῶν τῶν νόμων ἐμποδών 
ἐστιν οὐδ᾽ ἀπαγορεύει, ἐάν τε τις βούληται ὑμῶν 
εἰς ἀποικίαν ἰέναι, & μὴ ἀρέσκομεν ἡμεῖς τε 
καὶ ἡ πόλις, ἐάν τε μετοικεῖν ἄλλοσέ ποι ἐλθών͵ 
ἰέναι ἐκεῖσε ὅποι ἂν βούληται, ἔχοντα τὰ αὑτοῦ. 
ὃς δ᾽ ἂν ὑμῶν παραμείνῃ, ὁρῶν ὃν τρόπον ἡμεῖς 
τάς τε δίκας δικάξομεν καὶ τἄλλα τὴν πόλιν 
διοικοῦμεν, ἤδη φαμὲν τοῦτον ὡμολογηκέναι 
ἔργῳ ἡμῖν ἃ ἂν ἡμεῖς κελεύωμεν ποιήσειν 
ταῦτα, καὶ τὸν μὴ πειθόμενον τριχῇ φαμεν 
ἀδικεῖν, ὅτι τε γεννηταῖς οὖσιν ἡμῖν οὐ πείθεται, 
καὶ ὅτι τροφεῦσι, καὶ ὅτι ὁμολογήσας ἡμῖν 
πείθεσθαι οὔτε πείθεται οὔτε πείθει ἡμᾶς, εἰ 
μὴ καλῶς τι ποιοῦμεν, προτιθέντων ἡμῶν καὶ 
οὐκ ἀγρίως ἐπιταττόντων ποιεῖν ἃ ἂν κελεύωμεν, 
ἀλλὰ ᾿ἐφιέντων δυοῖν θάτερα, ἢ πείθειν ἡμᾶς 
ἢ ποιεῖν, τούτων οὐδέτερα ποιεῖ. 

14. Ταύταις δή φαμεν καὶ σέ, @ Σώκρατες," 
ταῖς αἰτίαις ἐνέξεσθαι, εἴπερ ποιήσεις ἃ ἐπινοεῖς, 
καὶ οὐχ ἥκιστα ᾿Αθηναίων σέ, ἀλλ᾽ ἐν τοῖς 
μάλιστα. εἰ οὖν ἐγὼ εἴποιμι διὰ τί δή; ἴσως 
ἄν μου δικαίως καθάπτοιντο λέγοντες, ὅτι ἐν 
τοῖς μάλιστα ᾿Αθηναίων ἐγὼ αὐτοῖς ὡμολογηκὼς 
τυγχάνω ταύτην τὴν ὁμολογίαν. φαῖεν γὰρ ἂν 
ὅτι ὦ Σώκρατες, μεγάλα ἡμῖν τούτων τεκμήριά 

1 Schanz omits ὦ and brackets Σώκρατες. 


180 


CRITO 


you and all the citizens. Yet we proclaim, by having 
offered the opportunity to any of the Athenians who 
wishes to avail himself of it, that anyone who is not 
pleased with us when he has become a man and has 
seen the administration of the city and us, the laws, 
may take his goods and go away wherever he likes. 
And none of us stands in the way or forbids any of 
you to take his goods and go away wherever he pleases, 
if we and the state do not please him, whether it be 
to an Athenian colony or to a foreign country where 
he will live as an alien. But we say that whoever of 
you stays here, seeing how we administer justice and 
how we govern the state in other respects, has there- 
by entered into an agreement with us to do what we 
command ; and we say that he who does not obey 
does threefold wrong, because he disobeys us who 
are his parents, because he disobeys us who nurtured 
him, and because after agreeing to obey us he neither 
obeys us nor convinces us that we are wrong, though 
we give him the opportunity and do not roughly order 
him to do what we command, but when we allow 
him a choice of two things, either to convince us of 
error or to do our bidding, he does neither of these 
things.”’ 

“We say that you, Socrates, will be exposed to 
these reproaches, if you do what you have in mind, 
and you not least of the Athenians but more than 
most others.” If then 1 should say, “How so?” 
perhaps they might retort with justice that I had 
made this agreement with them more emphatically 
than most other Athenians. For they would say, 
“Socrates, we have strong evidence that we and the 
city pleased you; for you would never have stayed in 


181 


PLATO 

ἐστιν, ὅ ὅτι σοι καὶ ἡμεῖς ἠρέσκομεν καὶ ἡ πόλις" 
οὐ γὰρ ἄν ποτε τῶν ἄλλων ᾿Αθηναίων ἁπάντων 
διαφερόντως ἐν αὐτῇ ἐπεδήμεις, εἰ μή σοι δια- 
φερόντως ἤρεσκεν, καὶ οὔτ᾽ ἐπὶ θεωρίαν πώποτ᾽ 
? a , ΕΣ οὶ » Μ, by U 
ἐκ τῆς πόλεως ἐξῆλθες οὔτε ἄλλοσε οὐδαμόσε, 
εἰ μή ποι στρατευσόμενος, οὔτε ἄλλην ἀποδημίαν 
ἐποιήσω πώποτε, ὥσπερ οἱ ἄλλοι ἄνθρωποι, 
ovd ἐπιθυμία σε ἄλλης πόλεως οὐδὲ ἄλλων 
νόμων ἔλαβεν εἰδέναι, ἀλλὰ ἡμεῖς σοι ἱκανοὶ 
ἦμεν καὶ ἡ ἡμετέρα πόλις: οὕτω σφόδρα ἡμᾶς 
ἡροῦ, καὶ ὡμολόγεις καθ᾽ ἡμᾶς πολιτεύσεσθαι, 
τά τε ἄλλα καὶ παῖδας ἐν αὐτῇ ἐποιήσω, ὡς 
ἀρεσκούσης σοι τῆς πόλεως. ἔτι τοίνυν ἐν αὐτῇ 
τῇ δίκῃ ἐξῆν σοι φυγῆς τιμήσασθαι, εἰ ἐβούλου, 
καὶ ὅπερ νῦν ἀκούσης τῆς πόλεως ἐπιχειρεῖς, 
τότε ἑκούσης ποιῆσαι. σὺ δὲ τότε μὲν ἐκαλλω- 
mifov ὡς οὐκ ἀγανακτῶν, εἰ δέοι τεθνάναι σε, 
3 \ « A e Μ N a a / 
ἀλλὰ ἡροῦ, ὡς ἔφησθα, πρὸ τῆς φυγῆς θάνατον' 
νῦν δὲ οὔτ᾽ ἐκείνους τοὺς λόγους αἰσχύνει, οὔτε 
ἡμῶν τῶν νόμων ἐντρέπει, ἐπιχειρῶν διαφθεῖραι, 
πράττεις τε ἅπερ ἂν δοῦλος φαυλότατος πράξειεν, 
ἀποδιδράσκειν ἐπιχειρῶν παρὰ τὰς ξυνθήκας τε 
καὶ τὰς ὁμολογίας, καθ᾽ ἃς ἡμῖν Evvébov πολι- 
τεύεσθαι. πρῶτον μὲν οὖν ἡμῖν τοῦτ᾽ αὐτὸ 
> , 3 J “ , {Z D, 
ἀπόκριναι, εἰ ἀληθῆ λέγομεν φάσκοντες σε 
ὡμολογηκέναι πολιτεύεσθαι καθ᾽ ἡμᾶς ἔργῳ, 
> > ’ , a > > A 
GAN ov λόγῳ, ἢ οὐκ ἀληθῆ. τί φῶμεν πρὸς 

A 4 , Ν, a ce 
ταῦτα, ὦ Κρίτων; ἄλλο τι ἢ ὁμολογῶμεν; 

ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. ᾿Ανάγκη, ὦ Σώκρατες. 


1 The words ὅτι μὴ ἅπαξ εἰς ᾿Ισθμόν, ‘except once to the 
Isthmus,” after ἐξῆλθες are gmitted by Schanz and others as 
an early interpolation. 


182 


CRITO 


it more than all other Athenians if you had not been 
better pleased with it than they ; you never went out 
from the city to a festival, or anywhere else, except 
on military service, and you never made any other 
journey, as other people do, and you had no wish to 
know any other city or other laws, but you were con- 
tented with us and our city. So strongly did you 
prefer us and agree to live in accordance with us; 
and besides, you begat children in the city, showing 
that it pleased you. And moreover even at your 
trial you might have offered exile as your penalty, if 
you wished, and might have done with the state’s 
consent what you are now undertaking to do without 
it. But you then put on airs and said you were not 
disturbed if you must die, and you preferred, as you 
said, death to exile. And now you are not ashamed to 
think of those words and you do not respect us, the 
laws, since you are trying to bring us to naught; and 
you are doing what the meanest slave would do, since 
you are trying to run away contrary to the compacts 
and agreements you made with us that you would 
live in accordance with us. First then, answer this 
question, whether we speak the truth or not when 
we say that you agreed, not in word, but by your 
acts, to live in accordance with us.”” What shall we 
say to this, Crito? Must we not agree that it is 
true? 
crito. We must, Socrates. 


183 


PLATO 


ΣΩΚΡΑΤῊΣ. Αλλο τι οὖν, ἂν φαῖεν, ἢ ξυνθήκας 


4 \ Q € « ᾽ \ WG , , 
Ii tas πρὸς ἡμᾶς αὑτοὺς Kal ομολογίας TapaPaivers, 


53 


οὐχ ὑπὸ ἀνάγκης ὁμολογήσας οὐδὲ ἀπατηθεὶς 
οὐδὲ ἐν ὀλίγῳ χρόνῳ ἀναγκασθεὶς βουλεύσασθαι, 
ἀλλ᾽ ἐν ἔτεσιν ἑβδομήκοντα, ἐν οἷς ἐξῆν σοι 
ἀπιέναι, εἰ μὴ ἠρέσκομεν ἡμεῖς μηδὲ δίκαιαι 
ἐφαίνοντό σοι αἱ ὁμολογίαι εἶναι' σὺ δὲ οὔτε 
Λακεδαίμονα προῃροῦ οὔτε Κρήτην, ἃς δὴ ἑκά- 
στοτε φὴς εὐνομεῖσθαι, οὔτε ἄλλην οὐδεμίαν τῶν 
᾿ΕἙλληνίδων πόλεων οὐδὲ τῶν βαρβαρικῶν, ἀλλὰ 
ἐλάττω ἐξ αὐτῆς ἀπεδήμησας ἢ ἢ οἱ χωλοί τε καὶ 
τυφλοὶ καὶ οἱ ἄλλοι ἀνάπηροι" οὕτω σοι διαφε- 
ρόντως τῶν ἄλλων ᾿Αθηναίων ἤ ἤρεσκεν ἡ πόλις TE 
καὶ ἡμεῖς οἱ νόμοι δῆλον ὅτι: τίνι γὰρ ἂν πόλις 
ἀρέσκοι ἄνευ νόμων; 1 νῦν δὲ δὴ οὐκ ἐμμενεῖς τοῖς 
ὡμολογημένοις; ἐὰν ἡμῖν γε πείθῃ, ὧ "Σώκρατες" 
καὶ οὐ καταγέλαστός γε ἔσει ἐκ τῆς πόλεως 
ἐξελθών. 

15. Σκόπει γὰρ δή, ταῦτα παραβὰς καὶ ἐξαμαρ- 
τάνων τι τούτων τί ἀγαθὸν ἐργάσει σαυτὸν ἢ 
τοὺς ἐπιτηδείους τοὺς σαυτοῦ. ὅτι μὲν γὰρ 
κινδυνεύσουσί γέ σου οἱ ἐπιτήδειοι καὶ αὐτοὶ 
φεύγειν καὶ στερηθῆναι τῆς πόλεως ἢ τὴν οὐσίαν 
ἀπολέσαι, σχεδόν τι ,δῆλον' αὐτὸς δὲ πρῶτον 
μὲν ἐὰν εἰς τῶν ἐγγύτατά τινα πόλεων ἔλθης, 
ἡ Θήβαζε ἢ ἢ Μέγαράδε--εὐνομοῦνται γὰρ ἀμφό- 
τεραι--πολέμιος ἥξεις, ὦ Σώκρατες, τῇ τούτων 
πολιτείᾳ, καὶ ὅσοιπερ κήδονται τῶν αὑτῶν πόλεων, 
ὑποβλέψονταί σε διαφθορέα ἡ aE TOV νόμων, 
καὶ βεβαιώσεις τοῖς δικασταῖς τὴν δόξαν, ὥστε 


1 Schanz omits δῆλον ὅτι. .. νόμων, ‘evidently ; for who 
would be pleased with a city apart from its laws?” 


184 


CRITO 


socraTEs. “ Are you then,’ they would say, “ not 
breaking your compacts and agreements with us, 
though you were not led into them by compulsion 
or fraud, and were not forced to make up your mind 
in a short time, but had seventy years, in which you 
could have gone away, if we did not please you and 
if you thought the agreements were unfair? But 
you preferred neither Lacedaemon nor Crete, which 
you are always saying are well governed, nor any 
other of the Greek states, or of the foreign ones, but 
you went away from this city less than the lame and 
the blind and the other cripples. So much more 
than the other Athenians were you satisfied with 
the city and evidently therefore with us, its laws; 
for who would be pleased with a city apart from its 
laws? And now will you not abide by your agree- 
ment? You will if you take our advice, Socrates ; 
and you will not make yourself ridiculous by going 
away from the city. 

“For consider. By transgressing in this way and 
committing these errors, what good will you do to 
yourself or any of your friends? For it is pretty 
clear that your friends also will be exposed to the 
risk of banishment and the loss of their homes in 
the city or of their property, And you yourself, it you 
go to one of the nearest cities, to Thebes or Megara— 
for both are well governed—will go as an enemy, So- 
crates, to their government, and all who care for their 
own cities will look askance at you, and will consider 
you a destroyer of the laws, and you will confirm the 


185 


54 


PLATO 


δοκεῖν ὀρθῶς τὴν δίκην δικάσαι' ὅστις yap 
νόμων διαφθορεύς ἐστιν, σφόδρα που δόξειεν 
ἂν νέων γε καὶ ἀνοήτων ἀνθρώπων “διαφθορεὺς 
εἶναι. πότερον οὖν φεύξει τάς τε εὐνομουμένας 
πόλεις καὶ τῶν ἀνδρῶν τοὺς κοσμιωτάτους; καὶ 
τοῦτο ποιοῦντε ἄρα ἄξιόν σοι ζῆν ἔσται; ἢ 
πλησιάσεις τούτοις καὶ ἀναισχυντήσεις διαλεγό- 
μενος --τίνας λόγους, ὦ Σώκρατες; ἢ οὕσπερ 
ἐνθάδε, ὡς ἡ ἀρετὴ καὶ ἡ δικαιοσύνη πλείστου 
ἄξιον τοῖς ἀνθρώποις καὶ τὰ νόμιμα καὶ οἱ 
νόμοι; καὶ οὐκ οἴει ἄσχημον ἂν φανεῖσθαι τὸ 
τοῦ Σωκράτους πρᾶγμα; οἴεσθαί ye χρή. ἀλλ᾽ 
ἐκ μὲν τούτων τῶν τόπων ἀπαρεῖς, ἥξεις δὲ 
εἰς Θετταλίαν παρὰ τοὺς ξένους τοὺς Κρίτωνος" 
ἐκεῖ γὰρ δὴ πλείστη ἀταξία καὶ ἀκολασία, καὶ 
ἔσως ἂν ἡδέως σον ἀκούοιεν, ὡς γελοίως ἐκ τοῦ 
δεσμωτηρίου ἀπεδίδρασκες σκευήν τέ τινα περι- 
θέμενος, ἢ διφθέραν λαβὼν ἢ ἄλλα οἷα δὴ 
εἰώθασιν ἐνσκενάξεσθαι οἱ ἀποδιδράσκοντες, καὶ 
τὸ σχῆμα τὸ σαυτοῦ μεταλλάξας' ὅτι δὲ γέρων 
ἀνὴρ σμικροῦ χρόνου τῷ βίῳ λοιποῦ ὄντος, ὡς 
τὸ εἰκός, ἐτόλμησας οὕτως αἰσχρῶς ἐπιθυμεῖν 
ζῆν, νόμους τοὺς μεγίστους παραβάς, οὐδεὶς ὃ ὃς 
ἐρεῖ; ἴσως, ἂν μή τινα λυπῆς" εἰ δὲ μή, ἀκούσει, 
ὦ Σώκρατες, πολλὰ καὶ ἀνάξια σαυτοῦ. ὑπερχό- 
μενος δὴ βιώσει πάντας ἀνθρώπους καὶ δουλεύων" 
τί ποιῶν ἢ εὐωχούμενος ἐν Θετταλίᾳ, ὥσπερ 
ἐπὶ δεῖπνον ἀποδεδημηκὼς εἰς Θετταλίαν; λόγοι 
δὲ ἐκεῖνοι οἱ περὶ δικαιοσύνης τε καὶ τῆς ἄλλης 
ἀρετῆς ποῦ ἡμῖν ἔσονται; ἀλλὰ δὴ τῶν παίδων 
1 Schanz omits δουλεύων, ““ being a slave.” 
2. Schanz omits ἐν Θετταλίᾳ, 


186 


CRITO 


judges in their opinion, so that they will think their 
verdict was just. For he who is destroyer of the 
laws might certainly be regarded as a destroyer of 
young and thoughtless men. Will you then avoid 
the well-governed cities and the most civilised men? 
And if you do this will your life be worth living? 
Or will you go to them and have the face to carry 
on—what kind of conversation, Socrates? The 
same kind you carried on here, saying that virtue 
and justice and lawful things and the laws are the 
most precious things to men? And do you not 
think that the conduct of Socrates would seem most 
disgraceful? You cannot help thinking so. Or you 
will keep away from these places and go to Crito’s 
friends in Thessaly; for there great disorder and 
lawlessness prevail, and perhaps they would be 
amused to hear of the ludicrous way in which you 
ran away from prison by putting on a disguise, a 
peasant’s leathern cloak or some of the other things 
in which runaways dress themselves up, and chang- 
ing your appearance. But will no one say that you, 
an old man, who had probably but a short time yet 
to live, clung to life with such shameless greed that 
you transgressed the highest laws? Perhaps not, if 
you do not offend anyone; but if you do, Socrates, 
you will have to listen to many things that would be 
a disgrace to you. So you will live as an inferior 
and a slave to everyone. And what will you do 
except feast in Thessaly, as if you had gone to 
Thessaly to attend a banquet? What will become 
of our conversations about justice and virtue? But 


187 


PLATO 


ἕνεκα βούλει ζῆν, ἵνα αὐτοὺς ἐκθρέψης καὶ 
παιδεύσῃς; τί δέ; εἰς Θετταλίαν αὐτοὺς ἀγαγὼν 
θρέψεις τε καὶ παιδεύσεις, ξένους ποιήσας, ἵνα 
καὶ τοῦτο ἀπολαύσωσιν; ἢ τοῦτο μὲν οὔ, αὐτοῦ 
δὲ τρεφόμενοι σοῦ ζῶντος βέλτιον θρέψονται 
καὶ παιδεύσονται, μὴ ξυνόντος σοῦ αὐτοῖς; οἱ 
γὰρ ἐπιτήδειοι οἱ σοὶ ἐπιμελήσονται" αὐτῶν. 
πότερον ἐὰν εἰς Θετταλίαν ἀποδημήσῃς, ἐπιμελή- 
σονται, ἐὰν δὲ εἰς “Αἰδου ἀποδημήσῃς, οὐχὶ 
ἐπιμελήσονται; εἴπερ γέ τι ὄφελος αὐτῶν ἐστιν 
τῶν σοι φασκόντων ἐπιτηδείων εἶναι, οἴεσθαί γε 
/ 


ἢ. 

16. ᾿Αλλ᾽, ὦ Σώκρατες, πειθόμενος ἡμῖν τοῖς 
σοῖς τροφεῦσι μήτε παῖδας περὶ πλείονος ποιοῦ 
μήτε τὸ ζῆν μήτε ἄλλο μηδὲν πρὸ τοῦ δικαίου, ἵνα 
εἰς “Αἰδου ἐλθὼν ἔχῃς πάντα ταῦτα ἀπολογή- 
σασθαι τοῖς ἐκεῖ ἄρχουσιν: οὔτε γὰρ ἐνθάδε σοι 
φαίνεται ταῦτα πράττοντι ἄμεινον εἶναι οὐδὲ 
δικαιότερον οὐδὲ ὁσιώτερον, οὐδὲ ἄλλῳ τῶν σῶν 
οὐδενί, οὔτε ἐκεῖσε ἀφικομένῳ ἄμεινον ἔσται. 
ἀλλὰ νῦν μὲν ἠδικημένος ἄπει, ἐὰν ἀπίῃς, οὐχ 
Uh’ ἡμῶν τῶν νόμων ἀλλὰ ὑπὸ ἀνθρώπων: ἐὰν 
δὲ ἐξέλθῃς οὕτως αἰσχρῶς ἀνταδικήσας τε καὶ 
ἀντικακουργήσας, τὰς σαυτοῦ ὁμολογίας τε καὶ 
ξυνθήκας τὰς πρὸς ἡμᾶς παραβὰς καὶ κακὰ 
ἐργασάμενος τούτους οὺἣς ἥκιστα ἔδει, σαυτόν TE 
καὶ φίλους καὶ πατρίδα καὶ ἡμᾶς, “ἡμεῖς τέ σοι 
χαλεπανοῦμεν ζῶντι, καὶ ἐκεῖ οἱ ἡμέτεροι ἀδελφοὶ 
οἱ ἐν “Αἰδου νόμοι οὐκ εὐμενῶς σε ὑποδέξονται, 
εἰδότες ὅτι καὶ ἡμᾶς ἐπεχείρησας ἀπολέσαι 


1 Schanz omits ἐπιμελήσονται here and also the punctuation 
after αὐτῶν, making one long interrogative sentence. 


188 


CRITO 


perhaps you wish to live for the sake of your 
children, that you may bring them up and educate 
them? Howso? Will you take them to Thessaly 
to be brought up and educated, making exiles of 
them, that you may give them that blessing also? 
Or perhaps you will not do that, but if they are 
brought up here while you are living, will they be 
better brought up and educated if you are not with 
them than if you were dead? Oh yes! your friends 
will care for them. Will they care for them if you 
go away to Thessaly and not if you go away to the 
dwellings of the dead? If those who say they are 
your friends are of any use, we must believe they will 
care for them in both cases alike. 

* Ah, Socrates, be guided by us who tended your 
infancy. Care neither for your children nor for 
life nor for anything else more than for the right, 
that when you come to the home of the dead, you 
may have all these things to say in your own 
defence. For clearly if you do this thing it will 
not be better for you here, or more just or holier, 
no, nor for any of your friends, and neither will it 
be better when you reach that other abode. Now, 
however, you will go away wronged, if you do go 
away, not by us, the laws, but by men; but if you 
escape after so disgracefully requiting wrong with 
wrong and evil with evil, breaking your compacts 
and agreements with us, and injuring those whom 
you least ought to injure—yourself, your friends, 
your country and us—we shall be angry with you 
while you live, and there our brothers, the laws in 
Hades’ realm, will not receive you graciously; for 
they will know that you tried, so far as in you lay, 


189 


PLATO 


TO σὸν μέρος. ἀλλὰ μή σε πείση Κρίτων ποιεῖν 
ἃ λέγει μᾶλλον ἢ ἡμεῖς. 

17. Ταῦτα, ὦ φίλε ἑταῖρε Κρίτων,' εὖ ἴσθι ὅτι 
ἐγὼ δοκῶ ἀκούειν, ὥσπερ οἱ κορυβαντιῶντες τῶν 
αὐλῶν δοκοῦσιν ἀκούειν, καὶ ἐν ἐμοὶ αὕτη ἡ ἠχὴ 
τούτων τῶν λόγων βομβεῖ καὶ ποιεῖ μὴ δύνασθαι 
τῶν ἄλλων ἀκούειν: ἀλλὰ ἴσθι, ὅσα γε τὰ νῦν 
ἐμοὶ δοκοῦντα, ἐὰν λέγῃς παρὰ ταῦτα, μάτην 
ἐρεῖς: ὅμως μέντοι εἴ τι οἴει πλέον ποιήσειν, 
λέγε. 

ΚΡΙΤΩΝ. ᾿Αλλ’, ὦ Σώκρατες, οὐκ ἔχω λέγειν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. “Ea τοίνυν, ὦ Κρίτων, καὶ πράτ- 
τωμεν ταύτῃ, ἐπειδὴ ταύτῃ ὁ θεὸς ὑφηγεῖται. 


1 Schanz follows Cobet and Naber in omitting Κρίτων. 


1990 


CRITO 


to destroy us. Do not let Crito persuade you to do 
what he says, but take our advice.” 

Be well assured, my dear friend, Crito, that this 
is what I seem to hear, as the frenzied dervishes of 
Cybele seem to hear the flutes, and this sound of 
these words re-echoes within me and prevents my 
hearing any other words. And be assured that, so 
far as I now believe, if you argue against these 
words you will speak in vain. Nevertheless, if you 
think you can accomplish anything, speak. 

crito. No, Socrates, I have nothing to say. 

socraTEs. Then, Crito, let it be, and let us act 
in this way, since it is in this way that God 
leads us. 


ΤΟΙ 


ahh of 
ἢ Nee 
ii fe 


“ΟΣ Ap ot: aig gail ry pu coe 
ta bts’ og aera yar Seat iced = . 
en s Paes rea c 7 Fai? tee 5 nie ’ aw” ΟῚ ὰ 4 . 
δ᾽ ~ oes Ἄνες ‘i ΠΣ 5 des veer Ὶ A nt : 


i 
᾿ ᾿ . ὰ " Ὗ & 
heat faped> Canhes gil 1/6/05 A emoresiiny i ; 


PHAEDO 


INTRODUCTION TO THE PHAEDO 


Tue Phaedo, like the Crito, has for its scene the 
prison of Socrates, though the dialogue is here 
supposed to be reported by one who was present, not 
actually carvied on in the presence of the reader. 
The immediate purpose of the dialogue seems to be 
to show that the philosopher will be glad to die ; and 
this purpose is never lost sight of, for it appears 
toward the end, as at the beginning. Inorder, how- 
ever, to prove that willingness to die is rational, it is 
necessary to prove that the soul will continue to 
exist after the death of the body, and thus the 
original statement that the philosopher will be glad 
to die leads to the proof of a far more important 
truth. The commonly accepted statement that the 
real subject of the Phaedo is the immortality of the 
soul has certainly some justification. In order, how- 
ever, to prove that the soul is immortal the theory is 
advanced that generation proceeds from opposite to 
opposite by alternation, that life proceeds from death 
as death from life, and that therefore the soul must 
exist after death as before birth. Again, all sensible 
objects are referable to certain types, of which they 
are likenesses. These types must be known to us 
before we can refer objects to them, and we have not 
seen or learned the types in this life ; we must there- 
fore have seen them before this life began; our know- 
ledge is thus seen to be reminiscence of knowledge 


195 


INTRODUCTION TO THE PHAEDO 


gained before our birth. All this proves, however, 
only that the soul existed for a probably very long 
time before our birth and continues to exist for 
a probably very long time after our death, but not 
that it is immortal and indestructible. This objection 
leads to the discussion of causation and to the con- 
clusion that “the ideas are the sole causes of all 
things and the sole objects of knowledge.” The 
idea inherent in soul is life, and since ideas are so 
connected with particulars that no particular can 
admit an idea directly contrary to its own inherent 
idea, the soul cannot admit death. The proof of the 
immortality of the soul has been reached by proving 
the everlasting truth of the ideas. This last is the 
most important part of the Phaedo, so far as the 
development of Plato’s system of philosophy is con- 
cerned, though it is introduced as a means for proving 
the immortality of the soul, just as the immortality 
of the soul is proved in order to show that the true 
philosopher will not fear, but welcome, death.? 

This dialogue, then, establishes the doctrine of the 
real existence of ideas as the sole objects of know- 
ledge and also shows how that doctrine is necessary 
to human happiness, because it serves to prove that 
the soal is immortal. The ordinary human being is 
little interested in metaphysical speculation, but 
greatly interested in his own future; he will there- 
fore pay attention to metaphysical theory if it is so 
presented as to seem to affect his happiness. The 
Phaedo, by applying the doctrine of ideas to prove 


1 This brief discussion of the contents and purpose of the 
Phaedo is for the most part derived from the introduction 
to R. D. Archer-Hind’s excellent edition, to which the 
reader is referred for a more complete exposition. 


196 


INTRODUCTION TO THE PHAEDO 


the immortality of the soul, tends to popularise the 
doctrine of ideas, and this may have been the 
ultimate purpose of Plato in writing the dialogue ; 
but that he was also fully in earnest in his belief in 
the immortality of the soul, and that the proof 
of immortality was an important part of his purpose 
in writing the dialogue, cannot be doubted. 

In composition the Phaedo is elaborate without 
being complicated. The dramatic setting serves 
here, as in the Crifo, as an appropriate introduction 
to a discourse on immortality and offers an oppor- 
tunity to portray the gentle, genial nature, the 
kindly humour, and the calm, untroubled courage of 
Socrates ; it also marks the divisions between the 
various parts of the discussion, and offers relief to the 
mind of the reader who is wearied by close application 
to serious argument. Those who take part in the 
conversation are admirably characterised; this is 
especially true of the two Thebans, Simmias and 
Cebes, who play the most important parts after 
Socrates himself. Both are eager searchers after 
truth, and both are evidently highly regarded by 
Socrates—were, in other words, at least respected by 
Plato ; but Simmias appears as a man of somewhat 
vague notions, inclined to mysticism, and somewhat 
lacking in keenness, while Cebes is clear-sighted, 
sharp, and keen, tenacious of his opinion, but quick 
to see when an opinion is no longer tenable. These 
distinguishing traits are drawn with few lines, but 
the few are masterly. The beautiful imaginative 
description of the life of souls in the other world 
is not merely a picturesque addition to the variety of 
the composition; it teaches us how Plato believed 
that right and wrong actions were rewarded or 


197 


INTRODUCTION TO THE PHAEDO 


punished. Quite different imagery is employed for 
the same end in the Phaedrus, but in both dialogues 
the justice of the treatment accorded the souls is 
made clear, and in both the importance of conduct 
in this life is emphasised, though this emphasis is 
stronger in the Phaedo, as is natural in view of the 
dramatic setting. 

The number of persons mentioned in the Phaedo 
is considerable. 

Echecrates of Phlius was one of the last of the 
Pythagoreans ; we know of no particular reason why 
he is introduced into this dialogue, unless it be that, 
as a Pythagorean, he might naturally be in sympathy 
with the doctrine of ideas. Of his personal relations 
to Socrates nothing is known. Phaedo, of Elis, was 
taken prisoner in 401 B.c. and brought to Athens, 
where he was, according to Aulus Gellius (ii., 18), 
ransomed by Cebes. After the death of Socrates he 
returned to Elis and founded the Elean school of 
philosophy, which was afterwards moved to Eretria 
by Menedemus and known as the Eretrian school. 
Phaedo wrote several dialogues, but virtually nothing 
is known of his doctrines. He seems to have been 
highly esteemed by Socrates and his followers. 
Apollodorus of Phalerum is of πὸ philosophical 
importance. He is mentioned several times by Plato 
and Xenophon as an ardent admirer and constant 
companion of Socrates, and a man of impulsive, un- 
restrained disposition. Simmias and Cebes were 
both Thebans, warm personal friends, and equally 
devoted to Socrates ; both offered money to secure 
the release of Socrates from prison (Crito, 45 8). 
The composition preserved under the name of Pinax 
or Tablet of Cebes is certainly spurious. Crito appears 


198 


INTRODUCTION TO THE PHAEDO 


here, as in the dialogue that bears his name, as the 
old and tried friend of Socrates. The others who 
are mentioned as companions of Socrates in his last 
hours are Critobulus, the son of Crito; Hermogenes, 
probably the son of Hipponicus and then identical 
with a speaker in the Cratylus; Epigenes, son of 
Antiphon; Aeschines, a well-known follower of 
Socrates, author of several dialogues; Antisthenes, 
founder of the Cynic school; Ctesippus, a youth 
mentioned also in the Euthydemus and the Lysis ; 
Menexenus, son of Demophon and an admirer of 
Ctesippus; his name is given to one of Plato's 
dialogues; Phaedonides, a Theban; Euclides of 
Megara, founder of the Megarian school; and 
Terpsion, also a Megarian. Evenus, mentioned in 
60 p, was a Parian sophist and puct. 

The most important separate editions of the 
Phaedo are those of Geddes, W. Wagner, Wohlrab, 
Schanz, Hirschig, Burnet, and Archer-Hind. The 
introduction and commentary in the last-named 
edition are of special importance. 


199 


ὃ 


ΦΑΙΔΩΝ 


H ΠΕΡῚ ΨΥΧΗΣ, HOIKOZ 


TA TOY ΔΙΑΛΟΓΟῪ ΠΡΟΣΏΠΑ 


EXEKPATHS, ΦΑΙΔΩΝ, ΑΠΟΛΛΟΔΩΡΟΣ, ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ, ΚΕΒΗΣ, 
ΣΙΜΜΙΑΣ, KPITQN, Ο TON ENAEKA ὙΠΗΡΕΤΗΣ 


le EXEKPATH3. Αὐτός, ὦ Φαίδων, παρεγένου 
Σωκράτει ἐκείνη τῇ ἡμέρᾳ, ἡ τὸ φάρμακον ἔπιεν 
ἐν τῷ δεσμωτηρίῳ, ἡ ἢ ἄλλου του ἤκουσας; 

ΦΑΙΔΩΝ. Αὐτός, ὦ ᾿Εχέκρατες. 

EXEKPATHS. Τί οὖν δή ἐ ἐστιν ἅττα εἶπεν ὁ ἀνὴρ 
πρὸ τοῦ θανάτου; καὶ πῶς ἐτελεύτα; ἡδέως γὰρ 
ἂν ἐγὼ ἀκούσαιμι. καὶ γὰρ οὔτε τῶν πολιτῶν 
Φλιασίων οὐδεὶς πάνυ τι ἐπιχωριάξει τὰ "νῦν 
᾿Αθήναζε, οὔτε τις ξένος ἀφῖκται χρόνου συχνοῦ 
ἐκεῖθεν, ὃ ὅστις ἂν ἡμῖν σαφές τι ἀγγεῖλαι οἷός πὶ 
ἣν περὶ τούτων, πλήν γε δὴ ὅτι φάρμακον πιὼν 
ἀποθάνοι" τῶν δὲ ἄλλων οὐδὲν εἶχεν φράξειν. 

ΦΑΙΔΩ͂Ν. Οὐδὲ τὰ περὶ τῆς δίκης ἄρα ἐπύθεσθε 
ὃν τρόπον ἐγένετο; 

EXEKPATHS. Ναί, ταῦτα μὲν ἡμῖν ἤγγειλέ τίς, 
καὶ ἐθαυμάξομέν γε, ὅτι πάλαι γενομένης αὐτῆς 
πολλῷ ὕστερον φαίνεται ἀποθανών. τί οὖν ἦν 
τοῦτο, ὦ Φαίδων; 

ΦΑΙΔΩΝ. Τύχη τις αὐτῷ, @ ᾿Εχέκρατες, συνέβη: 
ἔτυχε γὰρ τῇ προτεραίᾳ τῆς δίκης ἡ πρύμνα 
200 


PRAEDO 
{ork ON THE SOUL; ernicar] 


CHARACTERS 


KCHECRATES, PHAEDO, APOLLODORUS, SOCRATES, CEBES, 
SIMMTAS, Criro, the Servant of the Eleven. 


ECHECRATES. Were you with Socrates yourself, 
Phaedo, on the day when he drank the poison in 
prison, or did you hear about it from someone else ? 

PHAEDO. I was there myself, Echecrates. 

ecHEcRaTEs. Then what did he say before his 
death? and how did he die? I should like to 
hear, for nowadays none of the Phliasians go to 
Athens at all, and no stranger has come from there 
for a long time, who could tell us anything definite 
about this matter, except that he drank poison and 
died, so we could learn no further details. 

PHAEDO. Did you not even hear about the trial 
and how it was conducted ὃ 

ECHECRATES. Yes, some one told us about that, 
and we wondered that although it took place a long 
time ago, he was put to death much later. Now why 
was that, Phaedo ἢ 

PHAEDO. It; was a matter of chance, Echecrates. 
It happened that the stern of the ship which the 


201 


PLATO 


ἐστεμμένη τοῦ πλοίου, ὃ εἰς Δῆλον ᾿Αθηναῖοι 
πέμπουσιν. 

ἘΧΕΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τοῦτο δὲ δὴ τί ἐστιν; 

ΦΑΙΔΩΝ. Τοῦτ᾽ ἔστι τὸ πλοῖον, ὥς φασιν 
᾿Αθηναῖοι, ἐ ἐν ᾧ Θησεύς ποτε εἰς Κρήτην τοὺς δὺς 
ἑπτὰ ἐκείνους @XETO ἄγων καὶ ἔσωσέ τε καὶ αὐτὸς 
ἐσώθη. τῷ οὖν ᾿Απόλλωνι εὔξαντο, ὡς λέγεται, 
τότε, εἰ σωθεῖεν, ἑκάστου ἔτους θεωρίαν ἀπάξειν 
εἰς Δῆλον" ἣν δὴ ἀεὶ καὶ νῦν ἔτι ἐξ ἐκείνου κατ᾽ 
ἐνιαυτὸν τῷ θεῷ “πέμπουσιν. ἐπειδὰν οὖν ἄρξωνται 
τῆς θεωρίας, νόμος ἐστὶν αὐτοῖς ἐν τῷ χρόνῳ 
τούτῳ καθαρεύειν τὴν πόλιν καὶ δημοσίᾳ μηδένα 
ἀποκτιννύναι, πρὶν ἂν εἰς Δῆλόν τε ἀφίκηται 
τὸ πλοῖον καὶ πάλιν δεῦρο" τοῦτο δ᾽ ἐνίοτε ἐν 
πολλῷ χρόνῳ γίγνεται, ὅταν τύχωσιν ἄνεμοι 
ἀπολαβόντες αὐτούς. ἀρχὴ δ᾽ ἐστὶ τῆς θεωρίας, 
ἐπειδὰν ὁ ἱερεὺς τοῦ ᾿Απόλλωνος στέψῃ τὴν 
πρύμναν τοῦ πλοίου" τοῦτο δ᾽ ἔτυχεν, ὥσπερ 
λέγω, τῇ προτεραίᾳ τῆς δίκης γεγονός. διὰ ταῦτα 
καὶ πολὺς χρόνος ἐγένετο τῷ Σωκράτει ἐν τῷ 
δεσμωτηρίῳ o μεταξὺ τῆς δίκης τε καὶ θανάτου. 

2. ἘΧΕΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί δὲ δὴ τὰ περὶ αὐτὸν τὸν 
θάνατον, ὦ Φαίδων; τί ἦν τὰ λεχθέντα καὶ 
πραχθέντα, καὶ τίνες οἱ παραγενόμενοι τῶν ἐπιτη- 
δείων τῷ ἀνδρί; ἢ οὐκ εἴων οἱ ἄρχοντες παρεῖναι, 
ἀλλ᾽ ἔρημος ἐτελεύτα φίλων; 

ΦΑΙΔΩΝν. Οὐδαμῶς, ἀλλὰ παρῆσάν τινες καὶ 
πολλοί γε. 

EXEKPATHE. Ταῦτα δὴ πάντα προθυμήθητι ὡς 
σαφέστατα ἡμῖν ἀπαγγεῖλαι, εἰ μή τίς σοι 
ἀσχολία τυγχάνει οὖσα. 

earann. ᾿Αλλὰ σχολάξω ye καὶ πειράσομαι 


202 


PHAEDO 


Athenians send to Delos was crowned on the day 
before the trial. 

ECHECRATES. What ship is this? 

puagDo. This is the ship, as the Athenians say, 
in which Theseus once went to Crete with the 
fourteen youths and maidens, and saved them and 
himself. Now the Athenians made a vow to 
Apollo, as the story goes, that if they were saved 
they would send a mission every year to Delos. 
And from that time even to the present day they 
send it annually in honour of the god. Now it is 
their law that after the mission begins the city must 
be pure and no one may be publicly executed until 
the ship has gone to Delos and back; and some- 
times, when contrary winds detain it, this takes a 
long time. The beginning of the mission is when 
the priest of Apollo crowns the stern of the ship; 
and this took place, as I say, on the day before the 
trial. For that reason Socrates passed a long time 
in prison between his trial and his death. 

ECHECRATES. What took place at his death, 
Phaedo? What was said and done? And which 
of his friends were with him? Or did the autho- 
rities forbid them to be present, so that he died 
without his friends ? 

PHAEDO. Not at all. Some were there, in fact, a 
good many. 

ECHECRATES. Be so good as to tell us as exactly as 
you can about all these things, if you are not too 
busy. 

pHAEDO. I am not busy and I will try to tell 

203 


59 


PLATO 


ὑμῖν διηγήσασθαι" καὶ γὰρ τὸ μεμνῆσθαι, Σω- 
κράτους καὶ αὐτὸν λέγοντα καὶ ἄλλου ἀκούοντα 
ἔμοιγε ἀεὶ πάντων ἥδιστον. 

EXEKPATH3. ᾿Αλλὰ μήν, ὧ Φαίδων, καὶ τοὺς 
ἀκουσομένους γε τοιούτους ἑτέρους ἔχεις" ἀλλὰ 
πειρῶ ὡς ἂν δύνῃ ἀκριβέστατα διεξελθεῖν πάντα. 

ΦΑΙΔΩΝ. Καὶ μὴν ἔγωγε θαυμάσια ἔπαθον 
παραγενόμενος. οὔτε γὰρ ὡς θανάτῳ παρόντα με 
ἀνδρὸς ἐπιτηδείου ἔλεος εἰσήει" εὐδαίμων γάρ μοι 
ἁνὴρ ἐφαίνετο, ὦ ᾿Εχέκρατες, καὶ τοῦ τρόπου καὶ 
τῶν λόγων, ὡς ἀδεῶς καὶ γενναίως ἐτελεύτα, ὥστε 
μοι ἐκεῖνον παρίστασθαι μηδ᾽ εἰς “Αἰδου ἰόντα 
ἄνευ θείας μοίρας ἰέναι, ἀλλὰ καὶ ἐκεῖσε ἀφικό- 
μενον εὖ πράξειν, εἴπερ TLS πώποτε καὶ ἄλλος. 
διὰ δὴ ταῦτα οὐδὲν πάνυ μοι ἐλεεινὸν εἰσει, 
ὡς εἰκὸς ἂν δόξειεν εἶναι “παρόντι πένθει" οὔτε αὖ 
ἡδονὴ ὡς ἐν φιλοσοφίᾳ ἡμῶν ὄντων, ὥσπερ 
εἰώθειμεν" καὶ “γὰρ οἱ λόγοι τοιοῦτοί τινες ἦσαν' 
ἀλλ᾽ ἀτεχνῶς ἄτοπόν τί μοι πάθος παρῆν καί τις 
ἀήθης κρᾶσις ἀπό τε τῆς ἡδονῆς συγκεκραμένη 
ὁμοῦ καὶ ἀπὸ τῆς λύπης, ἐνθυμουμένῳ ὅτι 
αὐτίκα ἐκεῖνος ἔμελλε τελευτᾶν. καὶ πάντες οἱ 
παρόντες σχεδόν τι οὕτω διεκείμεθα, ὁτὲ μὲν 
γελῶντες, ἐνίοτε δὲ δακρύοντες, εἷς δὲ ἡμῶν καὶ 
διαφερόντως, ᾿Απολλόδωρος" οἶσθα γάρ που τὸν 
ἄνδρα καὶ τὸν τρόπον αὐτοῦ. 

ἘΧΕΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Πῶς γὰρ οὔ; 

SAIAQN. "Exeivos τε τοίνυν παντάπασιν οὕτως 
εἶχεν, καὶ αὐτὸς ἔγωγε ἐτεταράγμην καὶ οἱ ἄλλοι. 

ΕΧΕΚΡΑΤΗΣ. “Etuyor δέ, ὦ Φαίδων, τίνες παρα- 
γενόμενοι; 

ΦΑΙΔΩΝ. Οὗτός τε δὴ ὁ ᾿Απολλόδωρος τῶν 


204 


PHAEDO 


you. It is always my greatest pleasure to be 
reminded of Socrates whether by speaking of him 
myself or by listening to someone else. 

ecHEcRATES. Well, Phaedo, you will have hearers 
who feel as you do; so try to tell us everything as 
accurately as you can. 

PHAEDO. For my part, I had strange emotions 
when I was there. For I was not filled with pity 
as I might naturally be when present at the death 
of a friend; since he seemed to me to be happy, 
both in his bearing and his words, he was meeting 
death so fearlessly and nobly. And so I thought 
that even in going to the abode of the dead he was 
not going without the protection of the gods, and 
that when he arrived there it would be well with 
him, if it ever was well with anyone. And for this 
reason I was not at all filled with pity, as might seem 
natural when IJ was present at a scene of mourning ; 
nor on the other hand did I feel pleasure because 
we were occupied with philosophy, as was our 
custom—and our talk was of philosophy ;—but a 
very strange feeling came over me, an unaccustomed 
mixture of pleasure and of pain together, when 1 
thought that Socrates was presently to die. And all 
of us who were there were in much the same con- 
dition, sometimes laughing and sometimes weeping ; 
especially one of us, Apollodorus; you know him 
and his character. 

ECHECRATES. To be sure I do. 

PHAEDO. He was quite unrestrained, and I was 
much agitated myself, as were the others. 

ECHECRATES. Who were these, Phaedo? 

pHAEDO. Of native Athenians there was this 


205 


PLATO 


ἐπιχωρίων παρῆν καὶ ὁ Κριτόβουλος καὶ ὁ πατὴρ 
αὐτοῦ, καὶ ἔτι “Ἑρμογένης καὶ “Emiyévns καὶ 
Αἰσχίνης καὶ ᾿Αντισθένης: ἦν δὲ καὶ Κτήσιππος 
ὁ Παιανιεὺς καὶ Μενέξενος καὶ ἄλλοι τινὲς τῶν 
ἐπιχωρίων: Πλάτων δέ, οἶμαι, ἠσθένει. 

ΕΧΕΚΡΑΤΗΣ. évor δέ τινες παρῆσαν; 

ΦΑΙΔΩΝ. Ναί, Σιμμίας τέ γε ὁ Θηβαῖος καὶ 
Κέβης καὶ Φαιδωνίδης καὶ Μεγαρόθεν Εὐκλείδης 
τε καὶ Τερψίων. 

ΕΧΕΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ti δέ; ᾿Αρίστιππος καὶ Κλέομ- 
βροτος παρεγένοντο; 

ΦΑΙδων. Οὐ δῆτα: ἐν Alyivn γὰρ ἐλέγοντο 
εἶναι. 

EXEKPATHS. Αλλος δέ τις παρῆν; 

ΦΑΙΔΩΝ. Σχεδόν Te οἶμαι τούτους παραγενέ- 
σθαι. 

ΕΧΕΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί οὖν δή; τίνες, φής, ἦσαν οἱ 
λόγοι; 

3. ΦΑΙΔΩΝ. Εὐμγγώ σοι ἐξ ἀρχῆς πάντα πειρά- 
σομαι διηγήσασθαι. ἀεὶ γὰρ δὴ καὶ τὰς πρόσθεν 
ἡμέρας εἰώθειμεν φοιτᾶν καὶ ἐγὼ καὶ οἱ ἄλλοι 
παρὰ τὸν Σωκράτη, συλλεγόμενοι ἕωθεν εἰς τὸ 
δικαστήριον, ἐν ᾧ καὶ ἡ δίκη ἐγένετο' πλησίον 
γὰρ ἣν τοῦ δεσμωτηρίους περιεμένομεν οὖν 
ἑκάστοτε, ἕως ἀνοιχθείη τὸ δεσμωτήριον, διατρί- 
βοντες μετ᾽ ἀλλήλων: ἀνεῴγετο γὰρ οὐ πρῷ' 
ἐπειδὴ δὲ ἀνοιχθείη, εἰσῇῆμεν παρὰ τὸν Σωκράτη 
καὶ τὰ πολλὰ διημερεύομεν μετ᾽ αὐτοῦ. καὶ δὴ καὶ 
τότε πρωϊαίτερον συνελέγημεν. τῇ γὰρ προτεραίᾳ 

1 Schanz, after Cobet, inserts οὐ after Κλεόμβροτος. 


2 After προτεραίᾳ the MSS. read ἡμέρᾳ, which Hermann, 
followed by Schanz and others, brackets. 


206 


PHAEDO 


Apollodorus, and Critobulus and his father, and 
Hermogenes and Epiganes and Aeschines and 
Antisthenes; and Ctesippus the Paeanian was there 
too, and Menexenus and some other Athenians. 
But Plato, I think, was ill. 

ECHECRATES. Were any foreigners there? 

PHAEDO. Yes, Simmias of Thebes and Cebes and 
Phaedonides, and from Megara Euclides and 
Terpsion. 

EcHECRATES. What? Were Aristippus and Cleom- 
brotus there? 

PHAEDO. No. They were said to be in Aegina. 

ECHECRATES. Was anyone else there? 

pHaEpo. I think these were about all. 

ECHECRATES. Well then, what was the conversa- 
tion? 

PHAEDO. I wil] try to tell you everything from 
the beginning. On the previous days I and the 
others had always been in the habit of visiting 
Socrates. We used to meet at daybreak in the 
court where the trial took place, for it was near 
the prison; and every day we used to wait about, 
talking with each other, until the prison was opened, 
for it was not opened early; and when it was 
opened, we went in to Socrates and passed most ot 
the day with him. On that day we came together 
earlier; for the day before, when we left the prison 


207 


PLATO 


E ἐπειδὴ ἐξήλθομεν ἐκ τοῦ δεσμωτηρίου ἑσπέρας, 


60 


ἐπυθόμεθα ὅτι TO πλοῖον ἐκ Δήλου ἀφυγμένον εἴη. 
παρηγγείλαμεν οὖν ἀλλήλοις ἥκειν ὡς πρωϊαίτατα 
εἰς τὸ εἰωθός. καὶ ἥκομεν καὶ ἡμῖν ἐξελθὼν ὁ 

θυρωρός, ὃ ὅσπερ εἰώθει ὑ ὑπακούειν, εἶπεν περιμένειν 
καὶ μὴ πρότερον παριέναι, ἕως ἂν αὐτὸς κελεύσῃ. 
Λύουσι γάρ, ἔφη, οἱ ἕνδεκα “Σωκράτη καὶ 
παραγγέλλουσιν ὅπως ἂν τῇδε τῇ ἡμέρᾳ τελευ- 
τήσῃ. οὐ πολὺν δ᾽ οὖν χρόνον ἐπισχὼν ἧκεν καὶ 
ἐκέλευεν ἡμᾶς εἰσιέναι. εἰσελθόντες οὖν κατελαμ- 
βάνομεν τὸν μὲν Σωκράτη ἄρτι λελυμένον, τὴν δὲ 
ἘΞανθίππην ---γυγνώσκεις γάρ---ἔχουσάν τε τὸ 
παιδίον αὐτοῦ καὶ παρακαθημένην. ὡς οὖν 
εἶδεν ἡμᾶς ἡ ἘΞανθίππη, ἀνευφήμησέ τε καὶ 
τοιαῦτ᾽ ἄττα εἶπεν, οἷα δὴ εἰώθασιν αἱ γυναῖκες, 
ὅτι Ὦ Σώκρατες, ὕστατον δή σε προσεροῦσι 
νῦν οἱ ἐπιτήδειοι καὶ σὺ τούτους. καὶ ὁ Σω- 
κράτης βλέψας εἰς τὸν Κρίτωνα: Ὦ Κρίτων, 
ἔφη, ἀπαγέτω τις αὐτὴν οἴκαδε. καὶ ἐκείνην 
μὲν ἀπῆγον τινες τῶν τοῦ Κρίτωνος βοῶσάν 
τε καὶ κοπτομένην'" ὁ δὲ Σωκράτης ἀνακαθιζό- 
μενος εἰς τὴν κλίνην συνέκαμψεέ τε τὸ σκέλος 
καὶ ἐξέτριψε τῇ χειρί, καὶ τρίβων ἅμα' ‘Os 
ἄτοπον, ἔφη, ὦ ἄνδρες, ἔοικέ τι εἶναι τοῦτο, 
ὃ καλοῦσιν οἱ ἄνθρωποι ἡδύ ὡς θαυμασίως 
πέφυκε πρὸς τὸ δοκοῦν ἐ ἐναντίον εἶναι, τὸ λυπηρόν, 
τῷ ἅμα μὲν αὐτὼ μὴ ἐθέλειν παραγίγνεσθαι τῷ 
ἀνθρώπῳ, ἐὰν δέ τις διώκῃ τὸ ἕτερον καὶ λαμβάνῃ, 
σχεδόν τι ἀναγκάζεσθαι λαμβάνειν καὶ τὸ ἕτερον, 
ὥσπερ ἐκ μιᾶς κορυφῆς συνημμένω δύ᾽ ὄντε. καί 
μοι δοκεῖ, ἔφη, εἰ ἐνενόησεν αὐτὰ Αἴσωπος, 
μῦθον ἂν συνθεῖναι, ὡς ὁ θεὸς βουλόμενος αὐτὰ 


208 


PHAEDO 


in the evening we heard that the ship had arrived 
from Delos. So we agreed to come to the usual 
place as early in the morning as possible. And we 
came, and the jailer who usually answered the door 
came out and told us to wait and not go in until he 
told us. “For,” he said, “ the eleven are releasing 
Socrates from his fetters and giving directions how 
he is to die to-day.” So after a little delay he came 
and told us to goin. We went in then and found 
Socrates just released from his fetters and Xanthippe 
—you know her—with his little son in her arms, 
sitting beside him. Now when Xanthippe saw us, 
she cried out and said the kind of thing that women 
always do say: “Oh Socrates, this is the last time 
now that your friends will speak to you or you to 
them.” And Socrates glanced at Crito and said, 
“Crito, let somebody take her home.’ And some 
of Crito’s people took her away wailing and beating 
her breast. But Socrates sat up on his couch and 
bent his leg and rubbed it with his hand, and while 
he was rubbing it, he said, “ What a strange thing, 
my friends, that seems to be which men call 
pleasure! How wonderfully it is related to that 
which seems to be its opposite, pain, in that they 
will not both come to a man at the same time, and 
yet if he pursues the one and captures it, he is 
generally obliged to take the other also, as if the 
two were joined together in one head. And 1 
think,” he said, “if Aesop had thought of them, 
he would have made a fable telling how they were 
at war and god wished to reconcile them, and when 


209 


61 


PLATO 


διαλλάξαι πολεμοῦντα, ἐπειδὴ οὐκ ἐδύνατο, 
συνῆψεν εἰς ταὐτὸν αὐτοῖς τὰς κορυφάς, καὶ διὰ 
ταῦτα ᾧ ἂν τὸ ἕτερον παραγένηται ἐπακολουθεῖ 
ὕστερον καὶ τὸ ἕτερον. ὥσπερ οὖν καὶ αὐτῷ μοι 
ἔοικεν, ἐπειδὴ ὑπὸ τοῦ δεσμοῦ ἦν ἐν τῷ σκέλει τὸ 
ἀλγεινόν, ἥκειν δὴ φαίνεται ἐπακολουθοῦν τὸ ἡδύ. 
4. Ὃ οὖν Κέβης ὑπολα βών' Νὴ τὸν Δία, 
ὦ Σώκρατες, ἔφη, εὖ γ᾽ ἐποίησας ἀναμνήσας 
Φ 
με. περὶ γάρ τοι τῶν ποιημάτων ὧν πεποίηκας 
ἐντείνας τοὺς τοῦ Αἰσώπου λόγους καὶ τὸ εἰς 
τὸν ᾿Απόλλω προοίμιον καὶ ἄλλοι τινές με ἤδη 
ἤροντο, ἀτὰρ καὶ Evnvos πρῴην, ὅ TL ποτὲ 
διανοηθείς, ἐπειδὴ , δεῦρο ἦλθες, ἐποίησας αὐτά, 
πρότερον. οὐδὲν πώποτε ποιήσας. εἰ οὖν τί σοι 
μέλει τοῦ ἔχειν ἐμὲ Εὐήνῳ ἀποκρίνασθαι, ὅταν 
με αὖθις ἐρωτᾷ, εὖ οἶδα γάρ, ὅτι ἐρήσεται, 
εἶπέ, τί χρὴ λέγειν. Λέγε τοίνυν, ἔφη, αὐτῷ, ὦ 
Κέβης, τἀληθῆ, ὅτι οὐκ ἐκείνῳ βουλόμενος οὐδὲ 
τοῖς ποιήμασιν αὐτοῦ ἀντίτεχνος εἶναι ἐποίησα 
ταῦτα" ἤδειν γὰρ ὡς οὐ ῥάδιον εἴη: ἀλλ᾽ ἐνυπνίων 
τινῶν ἀποπειρώμενος τί λέγει, καὶ ἀφοσιούμενος, 
εἰ πολλάκις ταύτην τὴν μουσικήν μοι ἐπιτάττοι 
ποιεῖν. ἦν γὰρ δὴ ἄττα τοιάδε: πολλάκις μοι 
φοιτῶν τὸ αὐτὸ ἐνύπνιον ἐν τῷ παρελθόντι βίῳ, 
ἄλλοτ᾽ ἐν ἄλλῃ ὄψει φαινόμενον, τὰ αὐτὰ δὲ 
λέγον, ὦ Σώκρατες, ἔφη, μουσικὴν ποίει καὶ 
ἐργάζου. καὶ ἐγὼ ἔν γε τῷ πρόσθεν χρόνῳ 
ὅπερ ἔπραττον τοῦτο ὑπελάμβανον αὐτό μοι 
παρακελεύεσθαί τε καὶ ἐπικελεύειν, ὥσπερ οἱ 
τοῖς θέουσι διακελευόμενοι, καὶ ἐμοὶ οὕτω τὸ 
ἐνύπνιον, ὅπερ ἔπραττον, τοῦτο ἐπικελεύειν, μου- 
σικὴν ποιεῖν, ὡς φιλοσοφίας μὲν οὔσης μεγίστης 
210 


PHAEDO 


he could not do that, he fastened their heads 
together, and for that reason, when one of them 
comes to anyone, the other follows after. Just so 
it seems that in my case, after pain was in my leg 
on account of the fetter, pleasure appears to have 
come following after.” 

Here Cebes interrupted and said, “By Zeus, 
Socrates, I am glad you reminded me. Several 
others have asked about the poems you have com- 
posed, the metrical versions of Aesop’s fables and 
the hymr to Apollo, and Evenus asked me the day 
before yesterday why you who never wrote any 
poetry before, composed these verses after you came 
to prison. Now, if you care that I should be able to 
answer Evenus when he asks me again—and | 
know he will ask me—tell me what to say.” 

“ Then tell him, Cebes,” said he, “ the truth, that I 
composed these verses not because I wished to rival him 
or his poems, for 1 knew that would not be easy, but 
because I wished to test the meaning of certain dreams, 
and to make sure that I was neglecting no duty 
in case their repeated commands meant that I must 
cultivate the Muses in this way. They were some- 
thing like this. The same dream came to me often 
in my past life, sometimes in one form and some- 
times in another, but always saying the same thing: 
‘Socrates,’ it said, ‘make music and work at it.’ And 
I formerly thought it was urging and encouraging 
me to do what I was doing already and that just 
as people encourage runners by cheering, so the 
dream was encouraging me to do what I was doing, 
that is, to make music, because philosophy was the 


211 


PLATO 


μουσικῆς, ἐμοῦ δὲ τοῦτο πράττοντος: νῦν δ᾽ 
ἐπειδὴ ἥ τε δίκη ἐγένετο καὶ ἡ τοῦ θεοῦ ἑορτὴ 
διεκώλυέ με ἀποθνήσκειν, ἔδοξε χρῆναι, εἰ ἄρα 
πολλάκις μοι προστάττοι τὸ ἐνύπνιον ταύτην 
τὴν δημώδη μουσικὴν ποιεῖν, μὴ ἀπειθῆσαι αὐτῷ, 
ἀλλὰ ποιεῖν. ἀσφαλέστερον γὰρ εἶναι μὴ ἀπιέναι 
πρὶν ἀφοσιώσασθαι ποιήσαντα ποιήματα πειθό- 
μενον τῷ ἐνυπνίῳ. οὕτω δὴ πρῶτον μὲν εἰς τὸν 
θεὸν ἐποίησα, οὗ ἦν ἡ παροῦσα θυσία" μετὰ δὲ 
τὸν θεόν, ἐννοήσας ὅτι τὸν ποιητὴν δέοι, εἴπερ 
μέλλοι ποιητὴς εἶναι, ποιεῖν μύθους, ἀλλ᾽ οὐ 
λόγους, καὶ αὐτὸς οὐκ ἢ μυθολογικός, διὰ ταῦτα 
δὴ ods προχείρους εἶχον καὶ ἠπιστάμην μύθους 
τοὺς Αἰσώπου, τούτους ἐποίησα, οἷς πρώτοις 
ἐνέτυχον. 

5. Ταῦτα οὖν, ὦ Κέβης, Εὐήνῳ φράξε, καὶ 
ἐρρῶσθαι καί, ἂν σωφρονῇ, ἐμὲ διώκειν ὡς 
τάχιστα. ἄπειμι δέ, ὡς ἔοικε, τήμερον" κελεύουσι 
γὰρ ᾿Αθηναῖοι. καὶ ὁ Σιμμίας: Οἷον παρακε- 
λεύει, ἔφη, τοῦτο, ὦ Σώκρατες, Εὐήνῳ; πολλὰ 
γὰρ ἤδη ἐντετύχηκα τῷ ἀνδρί: σχεδὸν οὖν, ἐξ 
ὧν ἐγὼ ἤσθημαι, οὐδ᾽ ὁπωστιοῦν σοι ἑκὼν 
εἶναι πείσεται. Τί δαί; 4 δ᾽ ὅς, οὐ φιλόσοφος 
Εὔηνος; “Eporye δοκεῖ, ἔφη ὁ Σιμμίας. Ἔθε- 
λήσει τοίνυν καὶ Εὔηνος καὶ πᾶς ὅτῳ ἀξίως 
τούτου τοῦ πράγματος μέτεστιν. οὐ μέντοι ἴσως 
βιάσεται αὑτόν: οὐ γάρ φασι θεμιτὸν εἶναι. 
καὶ ἅμα λέγων ταῦτα καθῆκε τὰ σκέλη ἐπὶ τὴν 
γῆν, καὶ καθεζόμενος οὕτως ἤδη τὰ λοιπὰ διελέ. 
γετο. ἤρετο οὖν αὐτὸν ὁ Κέβης: Ila@s τοῦτο 


212 


PHAEDO 


greatest kind of music and I was working at that. 
But now, after the trial and while the festival of the 
god delayed my execution, I thought, in case the 
repeated dream really meant to tell me to make this 
which is ordinarily called music, I ought to do so and 
not to disobey. For I thought it was safer not to go 
hence before making sure that 1 had done what 
I ought, by obeying the dream and composing verses. 
So first I composed a hymn to the god whose festival 
it was ; and after the god, considering that a poet, if 
heis really to be a poet, must compose myths and not 
speeches, since I was not a maker of myths, I took 
the myths of Aesop, which I had at hand and knew, 
and turned into verse the first I came upon. So tell 
Evenus that, Cebes, and bid him farewell, and tell 
him, if he is wise, to come after me as quickly as he 
can. I, it seems, am going to-day; for that is the 
order of the Athenians.”’ 

And Simmias said, “ What a message that is, 
Socrates, for Evenus! I have met him often, and 
from what I have seen of him, I should say that he 
will not take your advice in the least if he can 
help it.” 

“Why so?” said he. “Is not Evenus a philo- 
sopher ?”’ 

“JT think so,” said Simmias. 

“Then Evenus will take my advice, and so will 
every man who has any worthy interest in philosophy. 
Perhaps, however, he will not take his own life, for 
they say that is not permitted.” And as he spoke 
he put his feet down on the ground and remained 
sitting in this way through the rest of the con- 
versation. 


Then Cebes asked him: “ What do you mean by 


213 


62 


PLATO 


λέγεις, ὦ Σώκρατες, TO μὴ θεμιτὸν εἶναι ἑαυτὸν 
βιάξεσθαι, ἐθέλειν δ᾽ ἂν τῷ ἀποθνήσκοντι τὸν 
φιλόσοφον ἕπεσθαι; Ti 0é, ὦ Κέβης ; οὐκ 
ἀκηκόατε σύ τε καὶ “Σιμμίας περὶ τῶν τοιούτων 
Φιλολάῳ συγγεγονότες ; Οὐδέν γε σαφές, ὧ 
Σώκρατες. ᾿Αλλὰ μὴν καὶ ἐγὼ ἐξ ἀκοῆς περὶ 
αὐτῶν λέγω" ἃ μὲν οὖν τυγχάνω ἀκηκοώς, φθόνος 
οὐδεὶς λέγειν. καὶ γὰρ ἴσως καὶ μάλιστα πρέπει 
μέλλοντα ἐκεῖσε ἀποδημεῖν διασκοπεῖν τε καὶ 
μυθολογεῖν περὶ τῆς ἀποδημίας τῆς ἐκεῖ,. ποίαν 
τινὰ αὐτὴν οἰόμεθα εἶναι" τί γὰρ ἄν Tis καὶ ποιοῖ 
ἄλλο ἐν τῷ μέχρι ἡλίου δυσμῶν χρόνῳ; 

6. Κατὰ ἰὴ οὖν ποτε οὔ φασι θεμιτὸν εἶναι 
αὐτὸν ἑαυτὸν ἀποκτιννύναι, ὦ Σώκρατες; ἤδη 
γὰρ ἔγωγε, ὅπερ νῦν δὴ σὺ ἤρου, καὶ Φιλολάου 
ἤκουσα, ὅτε παρ᾽ ἡμῖν διῃτᾶτο, ἤδη δὲ καὶ ἄλλων 
τινῶν, ὡς οὐ δέοι τοῦτο ποιεῖν: σαφὲς δὲ περὶ 
αὐτῶν οὐδενὸς πώποτε οὐδὲν ἀκήκοα. ᾿Αλλὰ 
προθυμεῖσθαι χρή, ἔφη: τάχα γὰρ ἂν καὶ 
ἀκούσαις. ἴσως μέντοι θαυμαστόν σοι φανεῖται, 
εἰ τοῦτο μόνον τῶν ἄλλων ἁπάντων ἁπλοῦν 
ἐστιν καὶ οὐδέποτε τυγχάνει τῷ ἀνθρώπῳ, 
ὥσπερ καὶ τἄλλα," ἔστιν ὅτε καὶ οἷς βέλτιον 
τεθνάναι ἢ ζῆν" οἷς δὲ βέλτιον τεθνάναι, θαυ- 
μαστὸν ἴσως σοι φαίνεται, εἰ τούτοις τοῖς ἀνθρώ- 
ποις μὴ ὅσιον αὐτοὺς ἑαυτοὺς εὖ ποιεῖν, ἀλλὰ 
ἄλλον δεῖ περιμένειν εὐεργέτην. καὶ ὁ Κέβης 
ἠρέμα ἐπιγελάσας: Ἴττω Ζεύς, ἔφη τῇ αὑτοῦ 
φωνῇ εἰπών. Καὶ γὰρ ἂν δόξειεν, ἔφη ὁ 

1 Schanz brackets τῆς ἐκεῖ. 


3. Schanz, following Forster, puts a period after τἄλλα and 
inserts ἀλλὰ, 


214 


PHAEDO 


this, Socrates, that it is not permitted to take one’s 
life, but that the philosopher would desire to follow 
after the dying ?”’ 

“ How is this, Cebes? Have you and Simmias, 
who are pupils of Philolaus, not heard about such 
things?” 

“ Nothing definite, Socrates.” 

“1 myself speak of them only from hearsay ; but 
I have no objection to telling what I have heard. 
And indeed it is perhaps especially fitting, as I am 
going to the other world, to tell stories about the 
life there and consider what we think about it; for 
what else could one do in the time between now and 
sunset ?”’ 

“Why in the world do they say that it is not 
permitted to kill oneself, Socrates? I heard Philolaus, 
when he was living in our city, say the same thing 
you just said, and I have heard it from others, too, 
that one must not do this ; but I never heard anyone 
say anything definite about it.” 

“ You must have courage,” said he, “and perhaps 
you might hearsomething. But perhaps it will seem 
strange to you that this alone of all laws is without 
exception, and it never happens to mankind, as in 
other matters, that only at some times and for some 
persons it is better to die than to live; and it will 
perhaps seem strange to you that these human 
beings for whom it is better to die cannot without 
impiety do good to themselves, but must wait for 
some other benefactor.” 

And Cebes, smiling gently, said, “ Gawd knows it 
doos,”’ speaking in his own dialect. 

“Tt would seem unreasonable, if put in this way,” 


215 


PLATO 


Mv 
B Σωκράτης, οὕτω γ᾽ εἶναι ἄλογον: οὐ μέντοι 


ἀλλ᾽ ἴσως γ᾽ ἔχει τινὰ λόγον. ὁ μὲν οὖν ἐν 
ἀπορρήτοις λεγόμενος περὶ αὐτῶν λόγος, ὡς ἔν 
τινε φρουρᾷ ἐσμεν οἱ ἄνθρωποι καὶ οὐ δεῖ δὴ 
ἑαυτὸν ἐ ἐκ ταύτης λύειν οὐδ᾽ ἀποδιδράσκειν, μέγας 
τέ τίς μοι φαίνεται καὶ οὐ ῥᾷδιος διιδεῖν: οὐ 
μέντοι ἀλλὰ τόδε γέ μοι δοκεῖ, ὦ Κέβης, εὖ 
λέγεσθαι, τὸ θεοὺς εἶναι ἡμῶν τοὺς ἐπιμελου- 
μένους καὶ ἡμᾶς τοὺς ἀνθρώπους ἕν τῶν κτημάτων 
τοῖς θεοῖς εἶναι" ἢ σοὶ οὐ δοκεῖ οὕτως; "Ιῦμοιγε, 
φησὶν ὁ Κέβης. Οὐκοῦν, ἦ δ᾽ ὅς, καὶ σὺ ἂν 
τῶν σαυτοῦ κτημάτων εἴ τι αὐτὸ ἑαυτὸ ἀπο- 
κτιννύοι, μὴ σημήναντός σου ὅτι βούλει αὐτὸ 
τεθνάναι, χαλεπαίνοις ἂν αὐτῷ, καὶ εἴ τινα 
ἔχοις τιμωρίαν, τιμωροῖο ἄν; Πάνυ γ᾽, ἔφη. 
Ἴσως τοίνυν ταύτῃ οὐκ ἄλογον, μὴ πρότερον 
αὑτὸν ἀποκτιννύναι δεῖν, πρὶν ἂν ἀνάγκην τινὰ 
θεὸς ἐπιπέμψη, ὥσπερ καὶ τὴν νῦν ἡμῖν παροῦ- 
σαν. 

7. ᾿Αλλ᾽ εἰκός, ἔφϑη ὁ Κέβης, τοῦτό γε 
φαίνεται. ὃ μέντοι νῦν δὴ ἔλεγες, τὸ τοὺς φιλο- 
σόφους ῥᾳδίως ἂν ἐθέλειν ἀποθνήσκειν, ἔοικεν 
τοῦτο, @ Σώκρατες, ἀτόπῳ, εἴπερ ὃ νῦν δὴ 
ἐλέγομεν εὐλόγως ἔχει, τὸ θεόν τε εἶναι τὸν 
ἐπιμελούμενον ἡμῶν καὶ ἡμᾶς ἐκείνου κτήματα 
εἶναι. τὸ γὰρ μὴ ἀγανακτεῖν τοὺς φρονιμωτάτους 
ἐκ “ταύτης τῆς θεραπείας ἀπιόντας, ἐν ἡ ἐπιστα- 
τοῦσιν αὐτῶν οἵπερ ἄριστοί εἰσιν τῶν ὄντων 
ἐπιστάται, θεοί, οὐκ ἔχει λόγον. οὐ γάρ που 
αὐτός γε αὑτοῦ οἴεται ἄμεινον ἐπιμελήσεσθαι 
ἐλεύθερος γενόμενος: ἀλλ᾽ ἀνόητος μὲν ἄνθρωπος 
τάχ᾽ ἂν οἰηθείη ταῦτα, φευκτέον εἶναι ἀπὸ τοῦ 
216 


PHAEDO 


said Socrates, “but perhaps there is some reason 
in it. Now the doctrine that is taught in secret 
about this matter, that we men are in a kind 
of prison and must not set ourselves free or run 
away, seems to me to be weighty and not easy to 
understand. But this at least, Cebes, I do believe is 
sound, that the gods are our guardians and that we 
men are one of the chattels of the gods. Do you not 
believe this?” 

“Yes,” said Cebes, “I do.” 

“ Well then,” said he, “if one of your chattels 
should kill itself when you had not indicated that you 
wished it to die, would you be angry with it and 
punish it if you could?” 

“ Certainly,” he replied. 

“Then perhaps from this point of view it is not 
unreasonable to say that a man must not kill himself 
until god sends some necessity upon him, such as has 
now come upon me.” 

“That,” said Cebes, “seems sensible. But what 
you said just now, Socrates, that philosophers ought to 
be ready and willing to die, that seems strange if we 
were right just now in saying that god is our guardian 
and we are his possessions. For it is not reasonable 
that the wisest men should not be troubled when 
they leave that service in which the gods, who are 
the best overseers in the world, are watching over 
them. A wise man certainly does not think that 
when he is frée he can take better care of himself 
than they do. A foolish man might perhaps think 
so, that he ought to run away from his master, 
and he would not consider that he must not run 


217 


E 


63 


PLATO 


δεσπότου," καὶ οὐκ ἂν λογίξοιτο, ὅτι οὐ δεῖ 
ἀπό γε τοῦ ἀγαθοῦ φεύγειν, ἀλλ᾽ ὅ τι μάλιστα 
παραμένειν, διὸ ἀλογίστως ἂν φεύγοι, ὁ δὲ νοῦν 
ἔχων ἐπιθυμοῖ που ἂν ἀεὶ εἶναι παρὰ τῷ αὑτοῦ 
βελτίονι. καίτοι οὕτως, ὧ Σώκρατες, τοὐναντίον 
εἶναι εἰκὸς ἢ ὃ νῦν δὴ ἐλέγετο: τοὺς μὲν “γὰρ 
φρονίμους ἀγανακτεῖν ἀποθνήσκοντας πρέπει, 
τοὺς δ᾽ ἄφρονας χαίρειν. ἀκούσας οὖν ὁ Σω- 
κράτης ἡσθῆναί, τέ μοι ἔδοξε τῇ τοῦ Κέβητος 
πραγματείᾳ, καὶ ἐπιβλέψας εἰς ἡμᾶς" ᾿Αεί τοι, 
ἔφη, ὁ Κέβης λόγους τινὰς ἀνερευνᾷ, καὶ οὐ 
πάνυ εὐθέως ἐθέλει πείθεσθαι, ὅ ὅ τι ἄν τις εἴπη. 
καὶ ὁ Σιμμίας" ᾿Αλλὰ μήν, ἔφη, ὦ Σώκρατες, 
νῦν γέ μοι δοκεῖ TL καὶ αὐτῷ λέγειν Κέβης: 
τί γὰρ ἂν βουλόμενοι ἄνδρες σοφοὶ ὡς ἀληθῶς 
δεσπότας ἀμείνους αὐτῶν ,Φεύγοιεν καὶ ῥᾳδίως 
ἀπαλλάττοιντο αὐτῶν; καί μοι δοκεῖ Κέβης εἰς 
σὲ τείνειν τὸν λόγον, ὅτι οὕτω ῥᾳδίως φέρεις 
καὶ ἡμᾶς ἀπολείπων καὶ ἄρχοντας ἀγαθούς, ὡς 
αὐτὸς ὁμολογεῖς, θεούς. Δίκαια, ἔφη, λέγετε. 
οἶμαι γὰρ ὑμᾶς λέγειν, ὅτι χρή με πρὸς ταῦτα 
ἀπολογήσασθαι ὥσπερ ἐν δικαστηρίῳ. Πάνυ 
μὲν οὖν, ἔφη ὁ Σιμμίας. 

8. Φέρε On, ἢ On, US, πειραθῶ πιθανώτερον 
πρὸς ὑμᾶς ἀπολογήσασθαι ἢ ἢ πρὸς τοὺς δικαστάς. 
ἐγὼ γάρ, ἔφη, ὦ Σιμμία τε καὶ Κέβης, εἰ 
μὲν μὴ ῴμὴν ἥξειν “πρῶτον μὲν παρὰ θεοὺς 
ἄλλους σοφούς τε καὶ ἀγαθούς, ἔ ἔπειτα καὶ παρ᾽ 
ἀνθρώπους τετελευτηκότας ἀμείνους τῶν ἐνθάδε, 
ἠδίκουν ἂν οὐκ ἀγανακτῶν τῷ θανάτῳ" νῦν δὲ 
εὖ ἴστε, ὅτε παρ᾽ ἄνδρας τε ἐλπίζω ἀφίξεσθαι 

1 Schanz brackets φευκτέον... δεσπότου. 


218 


PHAEDO 


away from a good master, but ought to stay with 
him as long as possible ; and so he might thought- 
lessly run away; but a man of sense would wish to 
be always with one who is better than himself. And 
yet, Socrates, if we look at it in this way, the 
contrary of what we just said seems natural ; for the 
wise ought to be troubled at dying and the foolish to 
rejoice.” 

When Socrates heard this I thought he was pleased 
by Cebes’ earnestness, and glancing at us, he said, 
“Cebes is always on the track of arguments and 
will not be easily convinced by whatever anyone 
says. 

re Simmias said, “Well, Socrates, this time I 
think myself that Cebes is right. For why should 
really wise men run away from masters who are 
better than they and lightly separate themselves 
from them? And it strikes me that Cebes is aiming 
his argument at you, because you are so ready to 
leave us and the gods, who are, as you yourself agree, 
good rulers.” 

“You have a right to say that,” he replied; “ for 
I think you mean that I must defend myself against 
this accusation, as if we were in a law court.” 

“ Precisely,’ said Simmias. 

«“ Well, then,” said he, “I will try to make a more 
convincing defence than I did before the judges. 
For if I did not believe,” said he, “that I was going 
to other wise and good gods, and, moreover, to men 
who have died, better men than those here, I should be 
wrong in not grieving at death. But as it is, you may 
rest assured that I expect to go to good men, though 
I should not care to assert this positively ; but I would 


219 


PLATO 


ἀγαθούς: καὶ τοῦτο μὲν οὐκ ἂν πάνυ διισχυρι- 
σαίμην' ὅτι μέντοι. παρὰ θεοὺς δεσπότας πάνυ 
ἀγαθοὺς ἥξειν," εὖ ἴστε ὅτι, εἴπερ τι ἄλλο 
τῶν τοιούτων, διισχυρισαίμην ἂν καὶ τοῦτο. 
ὥστε διὰ ταῦτα οὐχ ὁμοίως ἀγανακτῶ, ἀλλ᾽ 
εὔελπίς εἶμι εἶναί τι τοῖς τετελευτηκόσι, καί, 
ὥσπερ γε καὶ πάλαι λέγεται, πολὺ ἄμεινον τοῖς 
ἀγαθοῖς ἢ τοῖς κακοῖς. Τί οὖν, ἔφη ὁ Σιμμίας, 
ὦ Σώκρατες; αὐτὸς «ἔχων Thy διάνοιαν ταύτην 
ἐν νῷ ἔχεις ἀπιέναι, ἢ κἂν ἡμῖν μεταδοίης; κοινὸν 
γὰρ δὴ ἔμοιγε δοκεῖ καὶ ἡμῖν εἶναι ἀγαθὸν 
τοῦτο, καὶ ἅμα σοι ἀπολογία ἐστίν, ἐὰν ἅπερ 
λέγεις ἡμᾶς πείσῃης. ᾿Αλλὰ πειράσομαι, ἔφη. 
πρῶτον δὲ Κρίτωνα τόνδε σκεψώμεθα, τί ἐστιν 
ὃ βούλεσθαί μοι δοκεῖ πάλαι εἰπεῖν. Τίκτῶ 
Σώκρατες, ἔφη ὁ Κρίτων, ἄλλο γε ἢ πάλαι 
μοι λέγει ὁ μέλλων σοι δώσειν τὸ φάρμακον, 
ὅτι χρή σοι φράζειν ὡς ἐλάχιστα διαλέγεσθαι, 
φησὶ γὰρ θερμαίνεσθαι μᾶλλον διαλεγομένους, 
ei δὲ οὐδὲν τοιοῦτον προσφέρειν τῷ φαρμάκῳ 

i δὲ μή, ἐνίοτε ἀναγκάξεσθαι καὶ δὲς καὶ τρὶς 
πίνειν τούς τι τοιοῦτον ποιοῦντας. καὶ ὁ Σω- 
κράτης" Ἔα, ἔφη, χαίρειν αὐτόν' ἀλλὰ μόνον 
τὸ ἑαυτοῦ παρασκευαξέτω ὡς καὶ δὶς δώσων, 
ἐὰν δὲ δέῃ, καὶ τρίς. ᾿Αλλὰ σχεδὸν μέν τι 
ἤδη, ἔφη ὁ Κρίτων' ἀλλά μοι ἐσ πράγ. 
ματα παρέχει. Ἔα αὐτόν, ἔφη. ἀλλ᾽ ὑμῖν 
δὴ τοῖς δικασταῖς βούλομαι ἤδη τὸν λόγον 
ἀποδοῦναι, ὥς μοι φαίνεται εἰκότως ἀνὴρ τῷ 
ὄντε ἐν φιλοσοφίᾳ διατρίψας τὸν βίον θαρρεῖν 


1 Schanz brackets ἥξειν, following Hirschig. 
2 Schanz brackets τὸ ἑαυτοῦ. 3 Schanz brackets πάλαι. 


220 


PHAEDO 


assert as positively as anything about such matters 
that lam going to gods who' are good masters. And 
therefore, so far as that is concerned, I not only 
do not grieve, but I have great hopes that there is 
something in store for the dead, and, as has been 
said of old, something better for the good than for 
the wicked.” 

“ Well,’ said Simmias, “do you intend to go away, 
Socrates, and keep your opinion to yourself, or would 
you let us share it? It seems to me that this is a 
good which belongs in common to us also, and at the 
same time, if you convince us by what you say, that 
will serve as your defence.” 

“1 qvill, try, “he ’replied?> *oBut first let..vis"ask 
Crito there what he wants. He has apparently been 
trying to say something for a long time.” 

“ Only, Socrates,” said Crito, “that the man who 
is to administer the poison to you has been telling 
me for some time to warn you to talk as little as 
possible. He says people get warm when they 
talk and heat has a bad effect on the action of 
the poison; so sometimes he has to make those 
who talk too much drink twice or even three 
times.” 

And Socrates said: “Never mind him. Just let 
him do his part and prepare to give it twice or even, 
if necessary, three times.” 

“1 was pretty sure that was what you would say,” 
said Crito, “but he has been’bothering me for a long 
time.” 

“Never mind him,” said Socrates. “I wish now 
to explain to you, my judges, the reason why I think 
a man who has really spent his life in philosophy is 


221 


PLATO 


64 μέλλων ἀποθανεῖσθαι καὶ εὔελπις εἶναι ἐκεῖ 
μέγιστα οἴσεσθαι ἀγαθά, ἐπειδὰν τελευτήσῃ" 
πῶς ἂν οὖν δὴ τοῦθ᾽ οὕτως ἔχοι, ὦ Σιμμία τε 
καὶ Κέβης, ἐγὼ πειράσομαι φράσαι. 

9, Κινδυνεύουσι γὰρ ὅσοι τυγχάνουσιν ὀρθῶς 
ἁπτόμενοι φιλοσοφίας λεληθέναι τοὺς ἄλλους, 
ὅτε οὐδὲν ἄλλο αὐτοὶ ἐπιτηδεύουσιν ἢ ἀποθνή- 
σκειν τε καὶ τεθνάναι. εἰ οὖν τοῦτο ἀληθές, 
ἄτοπον δήπου ἂν εἴη προθυμεῖσθαι μὲν ἐν παντὶ 
τῷ βίῳ μηδὲν ἄλλο ἢ τοῦτο, ἥκοντος δὲ δὴ αὐτοῦ 
ἀγανακτεῖν, ὃ πάλαι προεθυμοῦντό τε καὶ ἐπετή- 
δευον. καὶ ὁ Σιμμίας γελάσας" Νὴ τὸν Δία, 

Be ἔφη, ὧ Σώκρατες, οὐ πάνυ γέ με νῦν γελα- 
σείοντα ἐποίησας γελάσαι. οἶμαι γὰρ ἂν δὴ 
τοὺς πολλοὺς αὐτὸ τοῦτο ἀκούσαντας δοκεῖν 
εὖ πάνυ εἰρῆσθαι εἰς τοὺς φιλοσοφοῦντας καὶ 
ξυμφάναι ἂν τοὺς μὲν παρ᾽ ἡμῖν ἀνθρώπους 
καὶ πάνυ, ὅτι τῷ ὄντι οἱ φιλοσοφοῦντες θανατῶσι 
καὶ σφᾶς γε οὐ λελήθασιν, ὅ ὅτι ἄξιοί εἰσιν τοῦτο 
πάσχειν. Καὶ ἀληθῆ γ᾽ ἂν λέγοιεν, ὦ Σιμμία, 
πλήν γε τοῦ σφᾶς μὴ λεληθέναι. λέληθεν 
γὰρ αὐτοὺς 7 τε θανατῶσι καὶ 7 ἄξιοί εἰσιν 
θανάτου καὶ οἵου θανάτου οἱ ὡς ἀληθῶς φιλό- 

C σοφοι. εἴπωμεν γάρ, ἔφη, πρὸς ἡμᾶς αὐτούς, 
χαίρειν εἰπόντες ἐκείνοις" ἡγούμεθά τι τὸν 
θάνατον εἶναι; Πάνυ γε, ἔφη ὑπολαβὼν 0 
Σιμμίας. “Apa μὴ ἄλλο τι ἢ τὴν τῆς ψυχῆς 
ἀπὸ τοῦ σώματος ἀπαλλαγήν; καὶ εἶναι τοῦτο 
τὸ τεθνάναι, χωρὶς μὲν ἀπὸ τῆς ψυχῆς ἀπαλλαγὲν 
αὐτὸ καθ᾽ αὑτὸ τὸ σῶμα γεγονέναι, χωρὶς δὲ 

τὴν ψυχὴν ἀπὸ τοῦ σώματος ἀπαλλαγεῖσαν 


222 


PHAEDO 


naturally of good courage when he is to die, and 
has strong hopes that when he is dead he will 
attain the greatest blessings in that other land. So 
I will try to tell you, Simmias, and Cebes, how this 
would be. 

“Other people are likely not to be aware that 
those who pursue philosophy aright study nothing 
but dying and being dead. Now if this is true, it 
would be absurd to be eager for nothing but this 
all their lives, and then to be troubled when that 
came for which they had all along been eagerly 
practising.” 

And Simmias laughed and said, “ By Zeus, Socrates, 
I don’t feel much like laughing just now, but you 
made me laugh. For I think the multitude, if they 
heard what you just said about the philosophers, would 
say you were quite right, and our people at home 
would agree entirely with you that philosophers 
desire death, and they would add that they know 
very well that the philosophers deserve it.” 

«“ And they would be speaking the truth, Simmias, 
except in the matter of knowing very well. For 
they do not know in what way the real philosophers 
desire death, nor in what way they deserve death, 
nor what kind of a death it is. Let us then,” said 
he, “speak with one another, paying no further 
attention to them. Do we think there is such a 
thing as death?” 

“Certainly,” replied Simmias. 

‘‘We believe, do we not, that death is the separa- 
tion of the soul from the body, and that the state 
of being dead is the state in which the body is 
separated from the soul and exists alone by itself 
and the soul is separated from the body and exists 


223 


65 


PLATO 


> \ θ᾽ « \ 4 . \ ” “7 
αὐτὴν καθ αὑτὴν εἰναι; apa μὴ ἄλλο τι ἢ 
θάνατος “ἢ τοῦτο; Οὔκ, adda TovTO, ἔφη. 
> f / ΦῚ 25 Li 2\ v \ \ a 

κέψαι δή, ὦ ἀγαθέ, ἐὰν dpa καὶ σοὶ ξυνδοκῇ 

, \ , a a 
ἅπερ ἐμοί. ἐκ yap τούτων μᾶλλον οἶμαι ἡμᾶς 
εἴσεσθαι περὶ ὧν σκοποῦμεν. φαίνεταί σοι φιλο- 

U , \ ἂψ 2 / x \ ς \ 
σόφου ἀνδρὸς εἶναι ἐσπουδακέναι περὶ Tas ἡδονὰς 
καλουμένας τὰς τοιάσδε, οἷον σίτων τε καὶ 

a ¢ 2 ? Μ e » 
ποτῶν; Ἥκιστα, ὦ Σώκρατες, ἔφη ὁ Σιμμίας. 
Τί δέ; τὰς τῶν ἀφροδισίων; Οὐδαμῶς. Τί δέ; 
τὰς ἄλλας τὰς περὶ τὸ σῶμα θεραπείας δοκεῖ σοι 
ἐντίμους ἡγεῖσθαι ὁ τοιοῦτος; οἷον ἱματίων διαφε- 
ρόντων κτήσεις καὶ ὑποδημάτων καὶ τοὺς ἄλλους 
καλλωπισμοὺς τοὺς περὶ τὸ σῶμα πότερον τιμᾶν 
δοκεῖ σοι ἢ ἀτιμάζειν, καθ᾽ ὅσον μὴ πολλὴ 

n 3 / nw 
ἀνάγκη μετέχειν αὐτῶν; ᾿Ατιμάζειν ἔμοιγε δοκεῖ, 
ἔφη, ὅ γε ὡς ἀληθῶς φιλόσοφος. Οὐκοῦν ὅλως 
δοκεῖ σοι, ἔφη, ἡ τοῦ τοιούτου πραγματεία 

) \ Ν [οἷ “. > \ we Ψ / 
οὐ περὶ TO σῶμα εἶναι, ἀλλὰ καθ᾽ ὅσον δύναται 
2 , 3 nr \ δὲ \ \ / 
ἀφεστάναι αὐτοῦ, πρὸς δὲ THY ψυχὴν τετράφθαι; 


Μ ? 3 Φ a Ἂ ᾽ al te 
Epovye. Ap’ οὖν πρῶτον μὲν ἐν τοῖς τοιούτοις 


δῆλός ἐστιν ὁ φιλόσοφος ἀπολύων ὅ τι μάλιστα 
τὴν ψυχὴν ἀπὸ τῆς τοῦ σώματος κοινωνίας 
ιαφερόντως τῶν ἄλλων ἀνθρώπων; ΦῬαίνεται. 
Καὶ δοκεῖ γε δήπου, ὦ Σιμμία, τοῖς πολλοῖς 
ἀνθρώποις, ᾧ μηδὲν HOU τῶν τοιούτων μηδὲ 
μετέχει αὐτῶν, οὐκ ἄξιον εἶναι ζῆν, ἀλλ᾽ ἐγγύς 
TL τείνειν τοῦ τεθνάναι ὁ μηδὲν φροντίζων τῶν 
ἡδονῶν αἱ διὰ τοῦ σώματός εἰσιν. Πάνυ μὲν 
οὖν ἀληθῆ λέγεις. 
1 Schanz brackets ἧ, 
224 


PHAEDO 


alone by itself? Is death anything other than this?” 
“No, it is this,” said he. 

“ Now, my friend, see if you agree with me; for, 
if you do, I think we shall get more light on our 
subject. Do you think a philosopher would be likely 
to care much about the so-called pleasures, such as 
eating and drinking?” 

“ By no means, Socrates,’ said Simmias. 

“ How about the pleasures of love?” 

“ Certainly not.” 

“ Well, do you think such a man would think mucl. 
of the other cares of the body—I mean such as the 
possession of fine clothes and shoes and the other 
personal adornments? Do you think he would care 
about them or despise them, except so far as it is 
necessary to have them?” 

“1 think the true philosopher would despise them,’ 
he replied. 

“ Altogether, then, you think that such a man 
would not devote himself to the body, but would, 
so far as he was able, turn away from the body and 
concern himself with the soul? ” 

SoVess 

“To begin with, then, it is clear that in such 
matters the philosopher, more than other men, 
separates the soul from communion with the body?” 

ΚΠ 15: 

“Now certainly most people think that a man 
who takes no pleasure and has no part in such 
things doesn’t deserve to live, and that one who 
cares nothing for the pleasures of the body is about 
as good as dead.” 

“ That is very true.” 


225 


PLATO 


10. Τί δὲ δὴ περὶ αὐτὴν τὴν τῆς φρονήσεως 
κτῆσιν; πότερον ἐμπόδιον τὸ σῶμα ἢ οὔ, ἐάν τις 
αὐτὸ ἐν τῇ ζητήσει κοινωνὸν συμπαραλαμβάνῃ; 
οἷον τὸ τοιόνδε λέγω: ἄρα ἔχει ἀλήθειάν τινα 
ὄψις τε καὶ ἀκοὴ τοῖς ἀνθρώποις, ἢ τά γε τοιαῦτα 
καὶ οἱ ποιηταὶ ἡμῖν ἀεὶ θρυλοῦσιν, ὅτε οὔτ᾽ 
ἀκούομεν ἀκριβὲς οὐδὲν οὔτε ὁρῶμεν; καίτοι 
εἰ αὗται τῶν περὶ τὸ σῶμα αἰσθήσεων μὴ 
ἀκριβεῖς εἰσιν μηδὲ σαφεῖς, σχολῇ αἵ γε ἄλλαι: 
πᾶσαι γάρ Tov τούτων φαυλότεραί εἰσιν: ἢ 
σοὶ οὐ δοκοῦσιν; ᾿Ιάνν μὲν οὖν, ἔφη. Πότε 
οὖν, ἢ δ᾽ ὅς, ἡ ψυχὴ τῆς ἀληθείας ἅπτεται; 
ὅταν μὲν γὰρ μετὰ τοῦ σώματος ἐπιχειρῇ τι 
σκοπεῖν, δῆλον ὅτι τότε ἐξαπατᾶται ὑπ᾽ αὐτοῦ. 
᾿Αληθῆ λέγεις. ἾΑρ᾽ οὖν οὐκ ἐν τῷ λογίξεσθαι, 
εἴπερ που ἄλλοθι, κατάδηλον αὐτῇ γίγνεταί 
τι τῶν ὄντων; Ναί. Λογίζεται δέ γέ πον τότε 
κάλλιστα, ὅταν αὐτὴν τούτων μηδὲν παραλυπῇ, 
μήτε ἀκοὴ μήτε ὄψις μήτε ἀλγηδὼν μηδέ τις 
ἡδονή, GAN ὅ τι μάλιστα αὐτὴ καθ᾽ αὑτὴν γίγνηται 
ἐῶσα χαίρειν τὸ σῶμα, καὶ καθ᾽ ὅσον δύναται 
μὴ κοινωνοῦσα αὐτῷ μηδ᾽ ἁπτομένη ὁρέγηται 
τοῦ ὄντος. Ἔστι ταῦτα. Οὐκοῦν καὶ ἐνταῦθα 
ἡ τοῦ φιλοσόφου ψυχὴ μάλιστα ἀτιμάζει τὸ 
σῶμα καὶ φεύγει ἀπ᾽ αὐτοῦ, ζητεῖ δὲ αὐτὴ 
καθ᾽ αὑτὴν γίγνεσθαι; Φαίνεται. Τί δὲ δὴ 
τὰ τοιάδε, ὦ Σιμμία; φαμέν τι εἶναι δίκαιον 
αὐτὸ ἢ οὐδέν; Φαμὲν μέντοι νὴ Δία. Καὶ 
226 


PHAEDO 


“Now, how about the acquirement of pure 
knowledge? Is the body a hindrance or not, if it 
is made to share in the search for wisdom? What I 
mean is this: Have the sight and hearing of men 
any truth in them, or is it true, as the poets are 
always telling us, that we neither hear nor see any- 
thing accurately? And yet if these two physical 
senses are not accurate or exact, the rest are not 
likely to be, for they are inferior to these. Do you 
not think so?”’ 

“ Certainly I do,” he replied. 

“Then,” said he, “when does the soul attain 
to truth? For when it tries to consider anything in 
company with the body, it is evidently deceived 
by it.” 

ἀν τὸν 

“In thought, then, if at all, something of the 
realities becomes clear to it?” 

« Ὑ δ" 

“ But it thinks best when none of these things 
troubles it, neither hearing nor sight, nor pain nor 
any pleasure, but it is, so far as possible, alone by 
itself, and takes leave of the body, and avoiding, so 
far as it can, all association or contact with the body, 
reaches out toward the reality.” 

* That is true.” 

“In this matter also, then, the soul of the philo- 
sopher greatly despises’the body and avoids it and 
strives to be alone by itself?” 

“ Evidently.” 

“Now how about such things as this, Simmias? 
Do we think there is such a thing as absolute justice, 
or not?” 

“ We certainly think there is.” 


227 


PLATO 


καλὸν γέ te Kal ἀγαθόν; Πῶς δ᾽ οὔ; Ἤδη 
οὖν πώποτέ τι τῶν τοιούτων τοῖς ὀφθαλμοῖς 
εἶδες ; Οὐδαμῶς, ἡ δ᾽ ὅς. "AAN ἄλλῃ τινὶ 
αἰσθήσει τῶν διὰ τοῦ σώματος ἐφήψω αὐτῶν; 
λέγω δὲ περὶ πάντων, οἷον μεγέθους πέρι, ὑγιείας, 
ἰσχύος, καὶ τῶν ἄχλων ἑνὶ λόγῳ ἁπάντων τῆς 
οὐσίας, ὃ τυγχάνει ἕκαστον ὄν: apa διὰ τοῦ 
σώματος αὐτῶν τὸ ἀληθέστατον θεωρεῖται, ἢ 
ὧδε ἔχει: ὃς ἂν μάλιστα ἡμῶν καὶ ἀκριβέστατα 
παρασκευάσηται αὐτὸ ἕκαστον διανοηθῆναι περὶ 
οὗ σκοπεῖ, οὗτος ἂν ἐγγύτατα ἴοι τοῦ γνῶναι 
ἕκαστον; Πάνν μὲν οὖν. ἾΑρ᾽ οὖν ἐκεῖνος ἂν 
τοῦτο ποιήσειε καθαρώτατα, ὅστις ὅτι μάλιστα 
αὐτῇ τῇ διανοίᾳ ἴοι ἐφ᾽ ἕκαστον, μήτε τὴν ὄψιν 
παρατιθέμενος ἐν τῷ διανοεῖσθαι μήτε τινὰ ἄλλην 
αἴσθησιν ἐφέλκων μηδεμίαν μετὰ τοῦ λογισμοῦ, 
ἀλλ᾽ αὐτῇ καθ' αὑτὴν εἰλεκρινεῖ τῇ διανοίᾳ 
χρώμενος αὐτὸ καθ᾽ αὑτὸ εἰλικρινὲς ἕκαστον 
ἐπιχειροῖ θηρεύειν τῶν ὄντων, ἀπαλλαγεὶς ὅτι 
μάλιστα ὀφθαλμῶν τε καὶ ὦτων καὶ ὡς ἔπος 
εἰπεῖν ξύμπαντος τοῦ σώματος, ὡς ταράττοντος 
καὶ οὐκ ἐῶντος τὴν ψυχὴν κτήσασθαι ἀλήθειάν 
τε καὶ φρόνησιν, ὅταν κοινωνῇ, ap οὐχ ᾳὗτός 
ἐστιν, ὧ Σιμμία, εἴπερ τις καὶ ἄλλος, ὁ τευξόμενος 
τοῦ ὄντος; ‘Tareppuas, ἔφη ὁ Σιμμίας, ὡς ἀληθῆ 
λέγεις, ὦ Σώκρατες. 

11, Οὐκοῦν ἀνάγκη, ἔφη, ἐκ πάντων τούτων 
παρίστασθαι δόξαν τοιάνδε τινὰ τοῖς γνησίως 
φιλοσόφοις, ὥστε καὶ πρὸς ἀλλήλους τοιαῦτα 
ἄττα λέγειν, ὅτι κινδυνεύει τοι ὥσπερ ἀτραπός 
τὶς ἐκφέρειν ἡμᾶς, ὅτι, ἕως ἂν τὸ σῶμα ἔχωμεν 
μετὰ τοῦ λόγου ἐν τῇ σκέψει, καὶ συμπεφυρμένη 


228 


PHAEDO 


« And absolute beauty and goodness.” 

“ Of course.” 

“Well, did you ever see anything of that kind 
with your eyes?” 

“ Certainly not,” said he. 

“Or did you ever reach them with any of the 
bodily senses? I am speaking of all such things, as 
size, health, strength, and in short the essence 
or underlying quality of everything. Is their true 
nature contemplated by means of the body? Is it 
not rather the case that he who prepares himself 
most carefully to understand the true essence of each 
thing that he examines would come nearest to the 
knowledge of it ?”’ 

“ Certainly.” 

“Would not that man do this most perfectly who 
approaches each thing, so far as possible, with the 
reason alone, not introducing sight into his reasoning 
nor dragging in any of the other senses along with 
his thinking, but who employs pure, absolute reason 
in his attempt to search out the pure, absolute 
essence of things, and who removes himself, so far 
as possible, from eyes and ears, and, in a word, from 
his whole body, because he feels that its companion- 
ship disturbs the soul and hinders it from attaining 
truth and wisdom? Is not this the man, Simmias, 
if anyone, to attain to the knowledge of reality?” 

“That is true as true can be, Socrates,” said 
Simmias. 

“ Then,” said he, “ ail this must cause good lovers 
of wisdom to think and say one to the other some- 
thing like this: ‘There seems to be a short cut 
which leads us and our argument to the conclusion in 
our search that so long as we have the body, and the 


229 


01 


PLATO 


3 


7 ἡμῶν ἡ ψυχὴ μετὰ τοιούτου κακοῦ, οὐ μή 
ποτε κτησώμεθα, ἱκανῶς οὗ ἐπιθυμοῦμεν. φαμὲν 
δὲ τοῦτο εἶναι τὸ ἀληθές. μυρίας μὲν “γὰρ ἡμῖν 
ἀσχολίας παρέχει, τὸ σῶμα διὰ τὴν ἀναγκαίαν 
τροφήν: ἔτι δὲ ἄν τινες νόσοι προσπέσωσιν, 
ἐμποδίξζουσιν ἡ ἡμῶν τὴν τοῦ ὄντος θήραν. ἐρώτων 
δὲ καὶ ἐπιθυμιῶν καὶ φόβων καὶ εἰδώλων παντο- 
δαπῶν καὶ φλυαρίας ἐμπίμπλησιν ἡμᾶς πολλῆς, 
ὥστε τὸ λεγόμενον ὡς ἀληθῶς τῷ ὄντι UT αὐτοῦ 
οὐδὲ φρονῆσαι ἡμῖν ἐγγίγνεται οὐδέποτε οὐδέν. 
καὶ γὰρ πολέμους καὶ στάσεις καὶ μάχας οὐδὲν 
ἄλλο παρέ εἰ ἢ τὸ σῶμα καὶ αἱ τούτου ἐπιθυμίαι. 
διὰ γὰρ τὴν τῶν χρημάτων κτῆσιν πάντες οἱ 
πόλεμοι γίγνονται, τὰ δὲ χρήματα ἀναγκαζόμεθα 
κτᾶσθαι διὰ τὸ σῶμα, Souketdares τῇ τούτου 
θεραπείᾳ' καὶ ἐκ τούτου ἀσχολίαν ἄγομεν φιλοσο- 
φίας πέρι διὰ πάντα ταῦτα. τὸ 8 “ἔσχατον πάντων, 
ὅτι, ἐάν τις ἡμῖν καὶ σχολὴ γένηται ἀπ᾽ αὐτοῦ 
καὶ τραπώμεθα πρὸς τὸ σκοπεῖν τι, ἐν ταῖς 
ζητήσεσιν αὖ πανταχοῦ παραπῖπτον θόρυβον 
παρέχει καὶ ταραχὴν καὶ ἐκπλήττει, ὥστε μὴ 
δύνασθαι ὑπ᾽ αὐτοῦ καθορᾶν τἀληθές, ἀλλὰ τῷ 
ὄντι ἡμῖν δέδεικται ὅτι, εἰ μέχλομέν ποτε καθαρῶς 
τι εἴσεσθαι, ἀπαλλακτέον αὐτοῦ καὶ αὐτῇ τῇ 
ψυχῇ θεατέον αὐτὰ τὰ πράγματα: καὶ τότε, ὡς 
ἔοικεν, ἡμῖν ἔσται οὗ ἐπιθυμοῦμέν τε καί φαμεν 
ἐρασταὶ εἶναι, φρονήσεως, ἐπειδὰν τελευτήσωμεν, 
ὡς ὁ λόγος σημαίνει, ζῶσιν δὲ οὔ. εἰ γὰρ μὴ 
οἷόν τε μετὰ τοῦ σώματος μηδὲν καθαρῶς γνῶναι, 
δυοῖν θάτερον, 7 οὐδαμοῦ ἔστιν κτήσασθαι τὸ εἰδέ- 
ναι ἢ τελευτήσασιν' τότε γὰρ αὐτὴ καθ᾽ αὑτὴν ἡ 
ψυχὴ ἔσται χωρὶς τοῦ σώματος, πρότερον δ᾽ οὔ. 


230 


PHAEDO 


soul is contaminated by such an evil, we shall never 
attain completely what we desire, that is, the truth. 
For the body keeps us constantly busy by reason of 
its need of sustenance; and moreover, if diseases 
come upon it they hinder our pursuit of the truth. 
And the body fills us with passions and desires and 
fears, and all sorts of fancies and foolishness, so 
that, as they say, it really and truly makes it 
impossible for us to think at all. The body and its 
desires are the only cause of wars and factions and 
battles ; for all wars arise for the sake of gaining 
money, and we are compelled to gain money for the 
sake of the body. We are slaves to its service. And 
so, because of all these things, we have no leisure for 
philosophy. But the worst of all is that if we do get 
a bit of leisure and turn to philosophy, the body is 
constantly breaking in upon our studies and disturb- 
ing us with noise and confusion, so that it prevents 
our beholding the truth, and in fact we perceive 
that, if we are ever to know anything absolutely, we 
must be free from the body and must behold the 
actual realities with the eye of the soul alone. And 
then, as our argument shows, when we are dead we 
are likely to possess the wisdom which we desire and 
claim to be enamoured of, but not while we live. 
For, if pure knowledgé is impossible while the body 
is with us, one of two thing must follow, either it 
cannot be acquired at all or only when we are dead ; 
for then the soul will be by itself apart from the 
body, but not before. And while we live, we shall, 


231 


PLATO 


> C2 Ἃ a « 

καὶ ἐν ᾧ ἂν ζῶμεν, οὕτως, ὡς ἔοικεν, ἐγγυτάτω 
3... δ ἢ an 0. 7 ΣΝ oe , \ 
ἐσόμεθα τοῦ εἰδέναι, ἐὰν 6 TL μάλιστα μηδὲν 
ς a A “ἢ la) 
ὁμιλῶμεν TH σώματι μηδὲ κοινωνῶμεν, 6 TL μὴ 

ἴω / A 
πᾶσα ἀνάγκη, μηδὲ ἀναπιμπλώμεθα τῆς τούτου 

, ἢ \ 7 » 9 eee x 
φύσεως, ἀλλὰ καθαρεύωμεν ἀπ᾽ αὐτοῦ, ἕως ἂν 
ec Ν 35. ΘΔ ’ i e n \ Ψ \ \ 
ὁ θεὸς αὐτὸς ἀπολύσῃ ἡμᾶς" Kal οὕτω μὲν καθαροὶ 
ἀπαλλαττόμενοι τῆς τοῦ σώματος ἀφροσύνης, 
ὡς τὸ εἰκός, μετὰ τοιούτων τε ἐσόμεθα καὶ 
γνωσόμεθα δι ἡμῶν αὐτῶν πᾶν τὸ εἰλικρινές" 

a >] > ἃ wv Ν » , 
τοῦτο δ᾽ ἐστὶν ἴσως τὸ ἀληθές. μὴ καθαρῷ 
γὰρ καθαροῦ ἐφάπτεσθαι μὴ οὐ θεμιτὸν 7 
τοιαῦτα οἶμαι, ὦ Σιμμία, ἀναγκαῖον εἶναι πρὸς 
ἀλλήλους λέγειν τε καὶ δοξάξειν πάντας τοὺς 
ὀρθῶς φιλομαθεῖς. ἢ οὐ δοκεῖ σοι οὕτως; Παντός 
γε μᾶλλον, ὦ Σώκρατες. 

rad ς “ [9] 

12. Οὐκοῦν, ἔφη ὁ Σωκράτης, εἰ ταῦτα ἀληθῆ, ὦ 
« rn \ \ > / 3 Ν 4 
ἑταῖρε, πολλὴ ἐλπὶς ἀφικομένῳ at ἐγὼ πορεύομαι, 
ἐκεῖ: ἱκανῶς, εἴπερ που ἄλλοθι, κτήσασθαι τοῦτο 
οὗ ἕνεκα ἡ πολλὴ πραγματεία ἡμῖν ἐν τῷ παρελ- 

tod 
θόντι βίῳ γέγονεν, ὥστε ἥ γε ἀποδημία ἡ ἡ νῦν μοι 
προστεταγμένη μετὰ “ἀγαθῆς ἐλπίδος γίγνεται καὶ 
ἄλλῳ ἀνδρί, ὃ ὃς ἡγεῖταί οἱ παρεσκευάσθαι τὴν 
διάνοιαν ὥσπερ κεκαθαρμένην. Πάνυ μὲν οὖν, 
SYA € ἊΣ , K {0 δὲ > = > an 
epyn ὁ Σιμμίας. ἀθαρσις ὃὲ εἰναι apa οὐ τοῦτο 
/ a 
ξυμβαίνει, ὅπερ πάλαι ἐν τῷ λόγῳ λέγεται, τὸ 
χωρίξειν ὅ ὅ τι μάλιστα ἀπὸ τοῦ σώματος τὴν ψυχὴν 
καὶ ἐθίσαι αὐτὴν καθ᾽ αὑτὴν πανταχόθεν ἐκ τοῦ 
σώματος συναγείρεσθαί τε καὶ ἀθροίξεσθαι, καὶ 
οἰκεῖν κατὰ τὸ δυνατὸν καὶ ἐν τῷ νῦν παρόντι 
“ Ll 

καὶ ἐν τῷ ἔπειτα μόνην καθ᾽ αὑτήν, ἐκλνομένην 
ὥσπερ ἐκ δεσμῶν ἐκ τοῦ σώματος; Πάνυ μὲν 
232 


PHAEDO 


[ think, be nearest to knowledge when we avoid, so 
far as possible, intercourse and communion with the 
body, except what is absolutely necessary, and are 
not filled with its nature, but keep ourselves pure 
from it until God himself sets us free. And in this 
way, freeing ourselves from the foolishness of the body 
and being pure, we shall, I think, be with the pure 
and shall know of ourselves all that is pure,—and 
that is, perhaps, the truth. For it cannot be that 
the impure attain the pure.’ Such words as these, 
I think, Simmias, all who are rightly lovers of know- 
ledge must say to each other and such must be their 
thoughts. Do you not agree?” 

* Most assuredly, Socrates.” 

“Then,” said Socrates, “if this is true, my friend, I 
have great hopes that when I reach the place to 
which I am going, I shall there, if anywhere, attain 
fully to that which has been my chief object in my 
past life, so that the journey which is now imposed 
upon me is begun with good hope; and the like 
hope exists for every man who thinks that his mind 
has been purified and made ready.” 

“ Certainly,” said Simmias. 

* And does not the purification consist in this 
which has been mentioned long ago in our discourse, 
in separating, so far as possible, the soul from the 
body and teaching the soul the habit of collecting 
and bringing itself together from all parts of the 
body, and living, so far as it can, both now and here- 
after, alone by itself, freed from the body as from 
fetters?”’ 

“Certainly,” said he. 


233 


θ8 


PLATO 


οὗν, ἔφη. Οὐκοῦν τοῦτό γε θάνατος ὀνομάζεται, 
λύσις καὶ χωρισμὸς ψυχῆς ἀπὸ σώματος; Παντά- 
πασί γε, ἡ δ᾽ ds. Avew δέ γε αὐτῆν, ὥς φαμεν, 
προθυμοῦνται ἀεὶ “μάλιστα καὶ μόνοι οἱ _piroco- 
φοῦντες ὀρθῶς, καὶ τὸ μελέτημα αὐτὸ τοῦτό ἐστιν 
τῶν φιλοσόφων, λύσις καὶ χωρισμὸς ψυχῆς ἀπὸ 
σώματος, ἢ οὔ; Φαίνεται. Οὐκοῦν, ὅπερ ἐν ἀρχῇ 
ἔλεγον, γέλοιον ἂν εἴη ἄνδρα παρασκευάξονθ' 
ἑαυτὸν ἐν τῷ βίῳ ὅ τι ἐγγυτάτω ὄντα τοῦ 
τεθνάναι οὕτω ξῆν, κἄπειθ' ἥκοντος αὐτῷ τού- 
του ἀγανακτεῖν ὦ «οὐ γέλοιον; Ids 6 ov; Te 
ὄντι apa, ἔφη, ὦ Σιμμία, οἱ ὀρθῶς φιλοσο- 
φοῦντες ἀποθνήσκειν μετελῶσι, καὶ τὸ τεθ"άναι 
ἥκιστα αὐτοῖς ἀνθρώπων φοβερόν. ἐκ τῶνδε δὲ 
σκόπει. εἰ γὰρ διαβέβληνται μὲν πανταχῇ τῷ 
σώματι, αὐτὴν δὲ καθ᾽ αὑτὴν ἐπιθυμοῦσι τὴν 
ψυχὴν ἔχειν, τούτου δὲ γιγνομένου εἰ φοβοῖντο 
καὶ ἀγανακτοῖεν, οὐ πολλὴ ἂν ἀλογία εἴη, εἰ 
μὴ ἄσμενοι ἐκεῖσε ἴοιεν, οἷ ἀφικομένοις ἐλπίς 
ἐστιν οὗ διὰ βίου ἤρων τυχεῖν" ἤρων δὲ φρονήσεως" 
ᾧ τε διεβέβληντο, τούτου ἀπηλλάχθαι συνόντος 
αὐτοῖς; ἢ ἀνθρωπίνων μὲν παιδικῶν καὶ γυναικῶν 
καὶ viéwy ἀποθανόντων πολλοὶ δὴ ἑκόντες 
ἠθέλησαν εἰς “Αἰδου ἐλθεῖν, ὑπὸ ταύτης ἀγόμενοι 
τῆς ἐλπίδος, τῆς τοῦ ὄψεσθαί τε ἐκεῖ ὧν ἐπεθύ- 
μουν καὶ συνέσεσθαι' φρονήσεως δὲ apa τις 
τῷ ὄντι ἐρῶν, καὶ λαβὼν σφόδρα τὴν αὐτὴν 
ταύτην ἐλπίδα, μηδαμοῦ ἄλλοθι ἐντεύξεσθαι αὐτῇ 
ἀξίως λόγου ἢ ἐν “Αἰδου, ἀγανακτήσει τε ἀπο- 
θνήσκων καὶ οὐκ ἄσμενος εἶσιν αὐτόσε; οἴεσθαί 


1 After ἀγανακτεῖν BT read οὐ γέλοιον; Schanz brackets 
these words. Burnet reads γέλοιον", giving it to Simmias. 


234 


PHAEDO 


« Well, then, this is what we call death, 15 it not, 
a release and separation from the body ?” 

“ Exactly so,” said he. 

“ But, as we hold, the true philosophers and they 
alone are always most eager to release the soul, and 
just this—the release and separation of the soul from 
the body—is their study, is it not?” 

“ Obviously.” 

“Then, as I said in the beginning, it would be 
absurd if a man who had been all his life fitting 
himself to live as nearly in a state of death as he 
could, should then be disturbed when death came to 
him. Would it not be absurd ?” 

“Of course.” 

“In fact, then, Simmias,” said he, “the true 
philosophers practise dying, and death is less 
terrible to them than to any other men. Consider 
it in this way. They are in every way hostile to 
the body and they desire to have the soul apart by 
itself alone. Would it not be very foolish if they 
should be frightened and troubled when this very 
thing happens, and if they should not be glad to go 
to the place where there is hope of attaining what 
they longed for all through life—and they longed 
for wisdom—and of escaping from the companion- 
ship of that which they hated? When human loves 
or wives or sons have died, many men have willingly 
gone to the other world led by the hope of seeing 
there those whom they longed for, and of being 
with them; and shal] he who is really in love with 
wisdom and has a firm belief that he can find it 
nowhere else than in the other world grieve when 
he dies and not be glad to go there? We cannot 


235 


PLATO 


γε χρή, ἐὰν TO ὄντι ye ἦ, ὦ ἑταῖρε, φιλόσοφος" 
σφόδρα γὰρ αὐτῷ ταῦτα δόξει, μηδαμοῦ ἄλλοθι 
καθαρῶς ἐντεύξεσθαι φρονήσει ἀλλ᾽ ἢ ἐκεῖ. εἰ 
δὲ τοῦτο οὕτως ἔχει, ὅπερ ἄρτι ἔλεγον, οὐ πολλὴ 
a > fe Μ Σ A \ / e nr 

ἂν ἀλογία εἴη, εἰ φοβοῖτο τὸν θάνατον ὁ τοιοῦτος; 
Πολλὴ μέντοι νὴ Δία, ἡ δ᾽ ὅς. 

18. Οὐκοῦν ἱκανόν σοι τεκμήριον, ἔφη, τοῦτο 
> \ a bal ” > » Ls > 
ἀνδρὸς ὃν ἂν ἴδῃς ἀγανακτοῦντα μέλλοντα ἀπο- 
θανεῖσθαι, ὅτε οὐκ ἄρ᾽ ἦν φιλόσοφος, ἀλλά τις 
φιλοσώματος; ὁ αὐτὸς δέ που οὗτος τυγχάνει ὧν 

\ 4 \ ’ A \ [τ 
καὶ φιλοχρήματος καὶ φιλότιμος, ἤτοι τὰ ἕτερα 

7 a ᾽ , 4 4 »Μ ef ¢ 
τούτων ἢ ἀμφότερα. IIdvv, ἔφη, ἔχει οὕτως, ὡς 
λέγεις. ἾΑρ᾽ οὖν, ἔφη, ὦ Σιμμία, οὐ καὶ ἡ ὀνομα- 
ζομένη ἀνδρεία τοῖς οὕτω διακειμένοις μάλιστα 
προσήκει; Πάντως δήπου, ἔφη. Οὐκοῦν καὶ ἡ 

’ A \ e ΕΥ̓ > ’ὔ 
σωφροσύνη, ἣν καὶ οἱ πολλοὶ ὀνομάζουσι σωφρο- 

4 \ \ x b ’ Ἔν n 2 ᾽ 
σύνην, τὸ περὶ τὰς ἐπιθυμίας μὴ ἐπτοῆσθαι, ἀλλ 
ὀλυγώρως ἔχειν καὶ κοσμίως, ἄρ᾽ οὐ τούτοις μόνοις 
προσήκει τοῖς μάλιστα τοῦ σώματος ὀλιγωροῦσίν 

Ns Δ) / A b) (2 » ᾽ 
τε καὶ ἐν φιλοσοφίᾳ ζῶσιν; ᾿Ανάγκη, ἔφη. Eu 

\ 4" 4 » Ὁ Η A Ip n Μ 
γὰρ ἐθέλεις, 7 δ᾽ ὅς, ἐννοῆσαι τήν γε τῶν ἄλλων 
> ’ \ , ’ Ca 
ἀνδρείαν τε καὶ σωφροσύνην, δόξει σοι εἶναι 
ἄτοπος. Ilds δή, ὦ Σώκρατες; Οἶσθα, 7 δ᾽ ὅς, 
ef \ / e la) / «ς » A 
ὅτι Tov θάνατον ἡγοῦνται πάντες οἱ ἄλλοι τῶν 

lA “A \ 4~? ΝΜ > fal , 
μεγάλων κακῶν; Καὶ μάλ᾽, ἔφη. Οὐκοῦν φόβῳ 
μειζόνων κακῶν ὑπομένουσιν αὐτῶν οἱ ἀνδρεῖοι 

\ 4 [τ e , ν A A 
τὸν θάνατον, ὅταν ὑπομένωσιν; "ἔστι ταῦτα. Τῷ 

/ Μ ’ 3 -ΟΡὔ > / ἊΝ e 
δεδιέναι dpa καὶ δέει ἀνδρεῖοί εἰσι πάντες πλὴν οἱ 
236 


PHAEDO 


think that, my friend, if he is really a philosopher ; 
for he will confidently believe that he will find pure 
wisdom nowhere else than in the other world. And 
if this is so, would it not be very foolish for such a 
man to fear death?” 

“ Very foolish, certainly,’ said he. 

“Then is it not,’ said Socrates, “a_ sufficient 
indication, when you see a man troubled because he 
is going to die, that he was not a lover of wisdom but 
a lover of the body? And this same man is also 
a lover of money and of honour, one or both.” 

“Certainly,” said he, “it is as you say.” 

“Then, Simmias,” he continued, “is not that 
which is called courage especially characteristic of 
philosophers ? ” 

“ΒΥ all means,” said he. 

« And self-restraint—that which is commonly called 
self-restraint, which consists in not being excited by 
the passions and in being superior to them and 
acting in a seemly way—is not that characteristic of 
those alone who despise the body and pass their 
lives in philosophy?” 

“‘ Necessarily,” said he. 

“For,” said Socrates, “if you care to consider 
the courage and the self-restraint of other men, you 
will see that they are absurd.” 

“ How so, Socrates?” 

“ You know, do you not, that all other men count 
death among the gregt evils?” 

“ They certainly do.” 

“ And do not brave men face death—when they 
do face it—through fear of greater evils?” 

“ That is true.” 

“Then all except philosophers are brave through 


237 


PLATO 


φιλόσοφοι. καίτοι ἄλογόν ye δέει τινὰ Kal δειλίᾳ 


ἴω / 
E ἀνδρεῖον εἶναι. ἸΙάνυ μὲν οὖν. Τί δὲ οἱ κόσμιοι 


09 


αὐτῶν; οὐ ταὐτὸν τοῦτο πεπόνθασιν: ἀκολασίᾳ 
τινὶ σώφρονές εἰσιν; καίτοι φαμέν γε ἀδύνατον 
εἶναι, ἀλλ᾽ ὅμως αὐτοῖς συμβαίνει τούτῳ ὅμοιον 
τὸ πάθος τὸ περὶ ταύτην τὴν εὐήθη σωφροσύνην. 
φοβούμενοι γὰρ ἑτέρων ἡδονῶν στερηθῆναι καὶ 
ἐπιθυμοῦντες ἐκείνων, ἄλλων ἀπέχονται ὑπ᾽ 
ἄλλων κρατούμενοι. καίτοι καλοῦσί γε ἀκολασίαν 
τὸ ὑπὸ τῶν ἡδονῶν ἄρχεσθαι" ἀλλ᾽ ὅμως συμβαίνει 
αὐτοῖς κρατουμένοις ὑφ᾽ ἡδονῶν κρατεῖν ἄλλων} 
ἡδονῶν. τοῦτο δ᾽ ὅμοιόν ἐστιν ᾧ νῦν δὴ ἐλέγετο, 
τῷ τρόπον τινὰ δι’ ἀκολασίαν αὐτοὺς σεσω- 
/ Ww U 5 “4 7 
φρονίσθαι. Boxe γάρ. Ω μακάριε Σιμμία, 
μὴ γὰρ οὐχ αὕτη 7 ἡ ὀρθὴ πρὸς ἀρετὴν ἀλλαγή, 
ἡδονὰς πρὸς ἡδονὰς καὶ λύπας πρὸς λύπας καὶ 
φόβον πρὸς φόβον καταλλάττεσθαι, καὶ μείξω 
πρὸς ἐλάττω, ὥσπερ νομίσματα, ἀλλ᾽ ἦ ἐκεῖνο 
μόνον τὸ νόμισμα ὀρθόν, ἀντὶ οὗ δεῖ ἅπαντα 
ταῦτα καταλλάττεσθαι, φρόνησις, καὶ τούτου 
μὲν πάντα καὶ μετὰ τούτου ὠνούμενά τε καὶ 
πιπρασκόμενα τῷ ὄντι ἡ καὶ ἀνδρεία καὶ σω- 
φροσύνη καὶ δικαιοσύνη καὶ ξυλλήβοδην adn Ons 
ἀρετὴ μετὰ φρονήσεως, καὶ προσγιγνομένων καὶ 
ἀπογιγνομένων καὶ ἡδονῶν. καὶ φόβων καὶ τῶν 
ἄλλων πάντων τῶν τοιούτων: χωριζόμενα δὲ 
φρονήσεως καὶ ἀχλαττόμενα ἀντὶ ἀλλήλων "μὴ 
σκιαγραφία τις ἡ ἡ τοιαύτη ἀρετὴ καὶ τῷ ὄντι 
ἀνδραποδώδης τε καὶ οὐδὲν ὑγιὲς οὐδ᾽ ἀληθὲς 
ἔχῃ, τὸ 8 ἀληθὲς τῷ ὄντι ἦ κάθαρσίς τις 
1 Schanz brackets ἄλλων. 


248 


PHAEDO 


fear. And yet it is absurd to be brave through fear 
and cowardice.” 

“¢ Very true.” 

“And how about those of seemly conduct? Is 
their case not the same? They are self-restrained 
because of a kind of self-indulgence. We say, to 
be sure, that this is impossible, nevertheless their 
foolish self-restraint amounts to little more than 
this; for they fear that they may be deprived of 
certain pleasures which they desire, and so they 
refrain from some because they are under the sway 
of others. And yet being ruled by pleasures is 
called self-indulgence. Nevertheless they conquer 
pleasures because they are conquered by other 
pleasures. Now this is about what I said just now, 
that they are self-restrained by a kind of self- 
indulgence.” 

“80 it seems.” 

“ My dear Simmias, I suspect that this is not the 
right way to purchase virtue, by exchanging plea- 
sures for pleasures, and pains for pains, and fear 
for fear, and greater for less, as if they were coins, 
but the only right coinage, for which all those 
things must be exchanged and by means of and 
with which all these things are to be bought and 
sold, is in fact wisdom; and courage and self- 
restraint and justice and, in short, true virtue exist 
only with wisdom, whether pleasures and fears and 
other things of that sort are added or taken away. 
And virtue which consists in the exchange of such 
things for each other without wisdom, is but a 
painted imitation of virtue and is really slavish and 
has nothing healthy or true in it; but truth is in 


239 


σ 


10 


PLATO 


τῶν τοιούτων πάντων, καὶ ἡ “σωφροσύνη καὶ ἡ 
δικαιοσύνη καὶ ἀνδρεία καὶ αὐτὴ ἡ φρόνησις μὴ 
καθαρμός τίς ἢ. καὶ κινδυνεύουσι καὶ οἱ τὰς 
τελετὰς ἡμῖν οὗτοι καταστήσαντες οὐ φαῦλοι 
εἶναι, ἀλλὰ τῷ ὄντι πάλαι αἰνίττεσθαι ὅτι ὃς ἂν 
ἀμύητος καὶ ἀτέλεστος εἰς “Αἰδου ἀφίκηται, ἐν 
βορβόρῳ κείσεται, o δὲ κεκαθαρμένος τε καὶ 
τετελεσμένος ἐκεῖσε ἀφικόμενος μετὰ θεῶν οἰκήσει. 
εἰσὶν γὰρ δή, ὥς φασιν οἱ περὶ τὰς τελετάς, 
ναρθηκοφόροι μὲν πολλοί, βάκχοι δέ τε παῦροι. 
οὗτοι δ᾽ εἰσὶν κατὰ τὴν ἐμὴν δόξαν οὐκ ἄλλοι ἢ 
οἱ πεφιλοσοφηκότες ὀρθῶς. ὧν δὴ καὶ ἐγὼ κατά 
γε τὸ δυνατὸν οὐδὲν ἀπέλιπον ἐν τῷ βίῳ, ἀλλὰ 
παντὶ τρόπῳ προυθυμήθην γενέσθαι: εἰ δ᾽ ὀρθῶς 
προυθυμήθην καί τὸ ἠνύσαμεν, ἐκεῖσε ἐλθόντες τὸ 
σαφὲς εἰσόμεθα, ἂν θεὸς ἐθέλῃ, ὀλίγον ὕστερον, 
ὡς ἐμοὶ δοκεῖ. ταῦτ᾽ οὖν ἐγώ, ἔφη, ὦ Σιμμία 
τε καὶ Κέβης, ἀπολογοῦμαι, ὡς εἰκότως ὑμᾶς τε 
ἀπολείπων καὶ τοὺς ἐνθάδε δεσπότας οὐ χαλεπῶς 
φέρω οὐδ᾽ ἀγανακτῶ, ἡγούμενος κἀκεῖ οὐδὲν ἧττον 
ἢ ἐνθάδε δεσπόταις τε ἀγαθοῖς ἐντεύξεσθαι. καὶ 
ἑταίροις" εἴ Te οὖν ὑμῖν πιθανώτερός εἰμι ἐν τῇ 
ἀπολογίᾳ ἢ τοῖς ᾿Αθηναίων δικασταῖς, εὖ ἂν 
ἔχοι. 

14. Εἰπόντος δὴ τοῦ Σωκράτους ταῦτα ὑπο- 
λαβὼν ὁ Κέβης ἔφη. Ὦ Σώκρατες, τὰ μὲν ἄλλα 
ἔμοιγε δοκεῖ καλῶς λέγεσθαι, τὰ δὲ περὶ τῆς ψυχῆς 
πολλὴν ἀπιστίαν παρέχει τοῖς ἀνθρώποις, μὴ 
ἐπειδὰν ἀπαλλαγῇ τοῦ σώματος, οὐδαμοῦ ETL ἡ, 


1 After ἑταίροις, the MSS. read τοῖς δὲ πολλοῖς ἀπιστίαν 
παρέχει, “Ὀαὺ the many do not believe this.” Ast, followed 
by Schanz and Burnet, omits. 


240 


PHAEDO 


fact a purification from all these things, and self. 
restraint and justice and courage and wisdom itself 
are a kind of purification. And I fancy that those 
men who established the mysteries were not un- 
enlightened, but in reality had a hidden meaning 
when they said long ago that whoever goes un- 
initiated and unsanctified to the other world will 
lie in the mire, but he who arrives there initiated 
and purified will dwell with the gods. For as they 
say in the mysteries, ‘the thyrsus-bearers are many, 
but the mystics few’; and these mystics are, I 
believe, those who have been true philosophers. 
And I in my life have, so far as I could, left nothing 
undone, and have striven in every way to make 
myself one of them. But whether I have striven 
aright and have met with success, I believe I shall 
know clearly, when i have arrived there, very soon, if 
it is God’s will. This then, Simmias and Cebes, is the 
defence I offer to show that it is reasonable for me 
not to be grieved or troubled at leaving you and the 
rulers I have here, because I believe that there, no 
less than here, I shall find good rulers and friends. 
If now I am more successful in convincing you by 
my defence than I was in convincing my Athenian 
judges, it is well.” 

When Socrates had finished, Cebes answered and 
said: “Socrates, I agree to the other things you 
say, but in regard to the soul men are very prone to 
disbelief. They fear that when the soul leaves the 
body it no longer exists anywhere, and that on the 


241 


PLATO 


“ e 


ἀλλ᾽ ἐκείνη TH ἡμέρᾳ διαφθείρηταί τε καὶ ἀπολ- 


.« ε 


λύηται, ἣ ἂν ὁ ἄνθρωπος an of uno Kn: εὐθὺς 
ἀπαλλαττομένη τοῦ σώματος καὶ ἐκβαίνουσα 
ὥσπερ πνεῦμα 7 καπνὸς διασκεδασθεῖσα οἴχηται 
διαπτομένη καὶ οὐδὲν ἔτι οὐδαμοῦ ἢ." ἐπεί, 
εἴπερ εἴη που αὐτὴ καθ᾽ αὑτὴν συνηθροισμένη καὶ 
ἀπηλλαγμένη τούτων τῶν κακῶν. ὧν σὺ νῦν δὴ 
διῆλθες, πολλὴ ἂν ἐλπὶς εἴη καὶ καλή, ὦ Σώ- 
κρατες, ὡς ἀληθῆ ἐστιν ἃ σὺ λέγεις: ἀλλὰ τοῦτο 
δὴ ἴσως οὐκ ὀλίγης “παραμυθίας δεῖται καὶ 
πίστεως, ὡς ἔστι τε ἡ ψυχὴ ἀποθανόντος τοῦ 
ἀνθρώπου καί τινα δύναμιν ἔχει καὶ φρόνησιν. 
᾿Αληθῆ, ἔφη, “λέγεις, ὁ Σωκράτης, ὦ Κέβης: 
ἀλλὰ τί δὴ ποιῶμεν; ἢ περὶ αὐτῶν τούτων βούλει 
διαμυθολογῶμεν, εἴτε εἰκὸς οὕτως ἔχειν. εἴτε μή; 
ἜἜγωγε οὖν, ἔφη ὁ Κέβης, ἡδέως ἂν ἀκούσαιμι 
ἥντινα δόξαν ἔχεις περὶ αὐτῶν. Οὔκουν γ᾽ ἂν 
οἶμαι, ἣ δ᾽ ὃς ὁ Σωκράτης, εἰπεῖν τινα νῦν 
ἀκούσαντα, οὐδ᾽ εἰ κωμῳδιοποιὸς εἴη, ὡς ἀδολεσχῶ 
καὶ οὐ περὶ προσηκόντων τοὺς λόγους ποιοῦμαι. 
εἰ οὖν δοκεῖ, χρὴ διασκοπεῖσθαι. 

15. Σκεψώμεθα δὲ αὐτὸ τῇδέ πῃ, εἴτ᾽ ἄρα ἐν 
“Αἰδου εἰσὶν αἱ ψυχαὶ τελευτησάντων τῶν ἀνθρώ- 

x η ρ 
πων εἴτε καὶ οὔ. παλαιὸς μὲν οὖν ἔστι τις λόγος, οὗ 
μεμνήμεθα, ὡς εἰσὶν ἐνθένδε ἀφικόμεναι ἐκεῖ, καὶ 
πάλιν γε δεῦρο ἀφικνοῦνται καὶ γίγνονται ἐκ τῶν 
τεθνεώτων" καὶ εἰ τοῦθ᾽ οὕτως ἔχει, πάλιν γίγνε- 
σθαι ἐκ τῶν ἀποθανόντων τοὺς ζῶντας, ἄλλο τι ἢ 
εἶεν ἂν αἱ ψυχαὶ ἡμῶν ἐκεῖ; οὐ γὰρ av που πάλιν 
S20 \ Φ \ a e X 
ἐγίγνοντο μὴ οὖσαι, Kal τοῦτο ἱκανὸν τεκμήριον 
τοῦ ταῦτ᾽ εἶναι, εἰ τῷ ὄντι φανερὸν γίγνοιτο, ὅτι 
1 Schanz and Burnet bracket οἴχηται. .. ἢ. 

242 


PHAEDO 


day when the man dies it is destroyed and perishes, 
and when it leaves the body and departs from it, 
straightway it flies away and is no longer anywhere, 
scattering like a breath or smoke. If it exists any- 
where by itself as a unit, freed from these evils 
which you have enumerated just now, there would be 
good reason for the blessed hope, Socrates, that what 
you say is true. But perhaps no little argument 
and proof is required to show that when a man is 
dead the sou! still exists and has any power and 
intelligence.” 

“What you say, Cebes, is true,” said Socrates. 
“ Now what shall we do? Do you wish to keep on 
conversing about this to see whether it is probable 
or not?” 

“1 do,” said Cebes. “1 should like to hear what 
you think about it.” 

“ Well,” said Socrates, “I do not believe anyone 
who heard us now, even if he were a comic poet, 
would say that I am chattering and talking about 
things which do not concern me. So if you like, let 
us examine the matter to the end. 

«Let us consider it by asking whether the souls 
of men who have died are in the nether world 
or not. There is an ancient tradition, which we 
remember, that they gu there from here and come 
back here again and are born from the dead. Now 
if this is true, if the living are born again from the 
dead, our souls would exist there, would they not? 
For they could not be born again if they did not 
exist, and this would be a sufficient proof that they 
exist, if it should really be made evident that the 


243 


11 


PLATO 


οὐδαμόθεν ἄλλοθεν γίγνονται οἱ ζῶντες ἢ ἐκ τῶν 
τεθνεώτων" εἰ δὲ μὴ ἔστι τοῦτο, ἄλλου ἄν του 
/ , 
δέοι λόγου. Πάνυ μὲν οὖν, ἔφη ὁ Κέβης. Μὴ 
ΤᾺ ? » [4 > 3 [τὰ , U 
τοίνυν κατ᾿ ἀνθρώπων, ἧ δ᾽ ὅς, σκόπει μόνον 
τοῦτο, εἰ βούλει ῥᾷον μαθεῖν, ἀλλὰ καὶ κατὰ ζῴων 
, a 
πάντων καὶ φυτῶν, καὶ ξυλλήβδην ὅσαπερ ἔχει 
/ \ , “ 
γένεσιν, περὶ πάντων εἰδῶμεν, Ap οὑτωσὶ γίγνεται 
LA ? A aA 29 - > / Ν > ΄ 
πάντα, οὐκ ἄλλοθεν ἢ ἐκ τῶν ἐναντίων τὰ ἐναντία, 
ὅσοις τυγχάνει ὃν τοιοῦτόν τι, οἷον τὸ καλὸν τῷ 
» oli ed , ’ » ’ ιν 
αἰσχρῷ ἐναντίον που καὶ δίκαιον ἀδίκῳ, καὶ ἄλλα 
δὴ μυρία οὕτως ἔχει. τοῦτο οὖν σκεψώμεθα, Apa 
ἀναγκαῖον, ὅσοις ἔστι τι ἐναντίον, μηδαμόθεν 
» > Ἂν , a > nw 3 ~ 9% ’ὔ 
ἄλλοθεν αὐτὸ γίγνεσθαι ἢ ἐκ τοῦ αὐτῷ ἐναντίου. 
ay’ 
οἷον ὅταν μεῖζόν τε γίγνηται, ἀνάγκη που ἐξ 
a 
ἐλάττονος ὄντος πρότερον ἔπειτα μεῖζον γίγνε- 
- , n 
σθαι; Ναί. Οὐκοῦν κἂν ἔλαττον γίγνηται, ἐκ 
f 
μείζονος ὄντος πρότερον ὕστερον ἔλαττον γενή- 
Μ A > 
σεται; "ἔστιν οὕτω, ἔφη. Καὶ μὴν ἐξ ἰσχυρο- 
/ \ > fd \ ? / \ 
Tépov τὸ ἀσθενέστερον καὶ ἐκ βραδυτέρου τὸ 
A / / , Μ A / 
θᾶττον; Ildvy ye. Τί δέ; av τι χεῖρον γι- 
> ᾽ 3 ld \ aA / 
γνηται, οὐκ ἐξ ἀμείνονος, καὶ ἂν δικαιότερον, ἐξ 
ἀδικωτέρου; Πῶς γὰρ οὔ; “ἱκανῶς οὖν, ἔφη, 
ἔχομεν τοῦτο, ὅτι πάντα οὕτω γίγνεται, ἐξ 
ἐναντίων τὰ ἐναντία πράγματα; Ilav γε. 
Ti δ᾽ αὖ; ἔστι te καὶ τοιόνδε ἐν αὐτοῖς, οἷον 
244 


PHAEDO 


living are born only from the dead. But if this 
is not so, then some other argument would be 
needed.” 

“Certainly,” said Cebes. 

“Now,” said he, “if you wish to find this out 
easily, do not consider the question with regard 
to men only, but with regard to all animals and 
plants, and, in short, to all things which may be said 
to have birth. Let us see with regard to all these, 
whether it is true that they are all born or generated 
only from their opposites, in case they have opposites, 
as for instance, the noble is the opposite of the dis- 
graceful, the just of the unjust, and there are count- 
less other similar pairs. Let us consider the question 
whether it is inevitable that everything which has 
an opposite be generated from its opposite and from 
it only. For instance, when anything becomes 
greater it must inevitably have been smaller and 
then have become greater.” 

“Ves 

“And if it becomes smaller, it must have been 
greater and then have become smaller?” 

“That is true,” said he. 

“ And the weaker is generated from the stronger, 
and the slower from the quicker ?”’ 

“ Certainly.” 

“And the worse from the better and the more 
just from the more unjust ?”’ 

“ Of course.” ¢ 

“Then,” said he, “we have this fact sufficiently 
established, that all things are generated in this 
way, opposites from opposites ?”’ 

“ Certainly.” 

“ Now then, is there between all these pairs of 


245 


PLATO 


\ ᾽ / t a 2 , A 
μεταξὺ ἀμφοτέρων πάντων τῶν ἐναντίων δυοῖν 
ὄντοιν δύο γενέσεις, ἀπὸ μὲν τοῦ ἑτέρου ἐπὶ τὸ 
“ > ΔΝ ΟΣ 4 - τὸ iG sc ey No ey. 
ἕτερον, ἀπὸ δ᾽ αὖ τοῦ ἑτέρου πάλιν ἐπὶ τὸ ἕτερον" 
μείζονος μὲν πράγματος καὶ ἐλάττονος μεταξὺ 

ΜΝ , \ n e \ ἃ 
αὔξησις καὶ φθίσις, καὶ καλοῦμεν οὕτω τὸ μὲν 
, ’, a 
αὐξάνεσθαι, τὸ δὲ φθίνειν; Nat, ἔφη. Οὐκοῦν 
\ l4 \ / XN Le 
καὶ διακρίνεσθαι καὶ συγκρίνεσθαι, καὶ ψύχεσθαι 
καὶ θερμαίνεσθαι, καὶ πάντα οὕτω, κἂν εἰ μὴ 
χρώμεθα τοῖς ὀνόμασιν ἐνιαχοῦ, ἀλλ᾽ ἔργῳ γοῦν 
πανταχοῦ οὕτως ἔχειν ἀναγκαῖον, γίγνεσθαί τε 
’ 
αὐτὰ ἐξ ἀλλήλων γένεσίν τε εἶναι ἐξ ἑκατέρου" 
᾽ 
εἰς ἄλληλα; Πάνυ μὲν οὖν, 7 δ᾽ ὅς. 
16. Τί οὖν; ἔφη. τῷ ζῆν ἐστί τι ἐναντίον, 
“ A ? ΄ \ / , Ν 
ὥσπερ τῷ ἐγρηγορέναι τὸ καθεύδειν; ἸΠάνυ μὲν 
’ fal 
οὖν, ἔη. Ti; To τεθνάναι, ἔφη. Οὐκοῦν ἐξ 
᾽ / , Ὁ » ᾽ , 
αλλήλων TE γίγνεται TaUTa, εἴπερ ἐναντία 
᾽ a A 
ἐστιν, Kal αἱ γενέσεις εἰσὶν αὐτοῖν μεταξὺ δύο 
a“ v n \ Μ \ \ / 
δυοῖν ὄντοιν; Πῶς yap ov; Thy μὲν τοίνυν 
ἴω Ψ, 
ἑτέραν συξυγίαν ὧν νῦν δὴ ἔλεγον ἐγώ σοι, ἔφη, 
a \ \ \ / 
Ερῶ, ὁ Σωκράτης, καὶ αὐτὴν καὶ τὰς γενέσεις" 
/ \ 
σὺ δέ μοι τὴν ἑτέραν. λέγω δὲ TO μὲν καθεύδειν, 
\ δὲ 3 , δ > a θ “ὃ Ν 
τὸ δὲ ἐγρηγορέναι, καὶ ἐκ τοῦ καθεύδειν τὸ 
ἴων / \ 
ἐγρηγορέναι γίγνεσθαι Kal ἐκ τοῦ ἐγρηγορέναι TO 
a A \ 
καθεύδειν, Kal Tas γενέσεις αὐτοῖν τὴν μὲν κατα- 
, « fe 
δαρθάνειν εἶναι, τὴν δ᾽ ἀνεγείρεσθαι. ἱκανῶς σοι, 
΄ Ν 
ἔφη, ἢ οὔ; Πάνυ μὲν οὖν. Λέγε δή μοι καὶ 
1 Schanz brackets ἐξ ἑκατέρου. 


246 


PHAEDO 


opposites what may be called two kinds of genera- 
tion, from one to the other and back again from the 
other to the first? Between a larger thing and a 
smaller thing there is increment and diminution and 
we call one increasing and the other decreasing, 
do we not?” 

“Yes,” said he. 

“ And similarly analysing and combining, and cool- 
ing and heating, and all opposites in the same way. 
Even if we do not in every case have the words to 
express it, yet in fact is it not always inevitable that 
there is a process of generation from each to the 
other ?”’ 

‘ Certainly,” said he. 

“ Well then,” said Socrates, “is there anything that 
is the opposite of living, as being awake is the 
opposite of sleeping ?”’ 

“Certainly,” said Cebes. 

ew trac? ot 

“ Being dead,” said he. 

“Then these two are generated from each other, 
and as they are two, so the processes between them 
are two; is it not so?” 

“Of course.” 

‘“Now,” said Socrates, “I will tell about one of the 
two pairs of which I just spoke to you and its inter- 
mediate processes; and do you tell me about the 
other. I say one term is sleeping and the other is 
being awake, and being awake is generated from 
sleeping, and sleeping from being awake, and the 
processes of generation are, in the latter case, falling 
asleep, and in the former, waking up. Do you agree, 
or not?” 

“ Certainly.” 


247 


12 


PLATO 


’ ΝΜ [4 Ν ipl 

σύ, ἔφη, οὕτω περὶ ζωῆς καὶ θανάτου. οὐκ 

2 ’ \ \ a a N , Ϊ 
ἐναντίον μὲν φῇς τῷ ζῆν τὸ τεθνάναι εἶναι; 
"Eywye. Τύγνεσθαι δὲ ἐξ ἀλλήλων; Ναί. Ἔξ 

= A lal Ν 

οὖν τοῦ ζῶντος τί τὸ γιγνόμενον; Τὸ τεθνηκός, 

Μ ὍἬὦ , 4 ? σ A A 
ἔφη. Ti δέ, ἡ δ᾽ ὅς, ἐκ τοῦ τεθνεῶτος; 
᾿Αναγκαῖον, ἔφη, ὁμολογεῖν ὅτι τὸ ζῶν. Ἐκ τῶν 
τεθνεώτων ἄρα, ὦ Κέβης, τὰ ζῶντά τε καὶ οἱ 
ζῶντες γίγνονται; Φαίνεται, ἔφη. Ἐϊσὶν ἄρα, 
ἔφη, αἱ ψυχαὶ ἡμῶν ἐν “Αἰδου. “Eoxev. Οὐκοῦν 
καὶ τοῖν γενεσέοιν τοῖν περὶ ταῦτα ἣ γ᾽ ἑτέρα 
A = 4 Ν ᾿ » ’ \ 
σαφὴς οὖσα τυγχάνει; τὸ yap ἀποθνήσκειν σαφὲς 
δήπου, ἢ οὔ; Πάνυ μὲν οὖν, ἔφη. Πῶς οὖν, ἡ δ᾽ 

4 , > > 4 \ > , 
ὅς, ποιήσομεν; οὐκ ἀνταποδώσομεν THY ἐναντίαν 
x , 

γένεσιν, ἀλλὰ ταύτῃ χωλὴ ἔσται ἡ φύσις; ἢ 
9 , > ol A » ’ 3 ’ὔ \ 
ἀνάγκη ἀποδοῦναι τῷ ἀποθνήσκειν ἐναντίαν τινὰ 
/ ’ \ 
γένεσιν; Πάντως που, ἔφη. Τίνα ταύτην; To 
a ᾽ Μ ” τὴ 
ἀναβιώσκεσθαι. Οὐκοῦν, ἢ δ᾽ ὅς, εἴπερ ἔστι τὸ 

> ,ὔ ᾽ a 4 A Μ / 
ἀναβιώσκεσθαι, ἐκ τῶν τεθνεώτων ἂν εἴη γένεσις 
εἰς τοὺς ζῶντας αὕτη, τὸ ἀναβιώσκεσθαι; Wavy 


γε. Ὁμολογεῖται ἄρα ἡμῖν καὶ ταύτῃ τοὺς 
248 


PHAEDO 


“Now do you,’ said he, “tell me in this way about 
life and death. Do you not say that living is the 
opposite of being dead?” 

‘1 ido, 

“ And that they are generated one from the other?” 

“es 

* Now what is it which is generated from the 
living?” 

“The dead,” said he. 

“ And what,’ said Socrates, ““ from the dead ?”’ 

“1 can say only one thing—the living.” 

“From the dead, then, Cebes, the living, both 
things and persons, are generated?” 

“ Evidently,” said he. 

“Then,” said Socrates, “our souls exist in the 
other world.” 

“80 it seems.” 

« And of the two processes of generation between 
these two, the one is plain to be seen; for surely 
dying is plain to be seen, is it not?” 

“Certainly,” said he. 

“Well then,” said Socrates, “what shall we do 
next? Shall we deny the opposite process, and shall 
nature be one-sided in this instance? Or must we 
grant that there is some process of generation the 
opposite of dying ?” 

“Certainly we must,” said he. 

“ What is this process?” 

“ Coming to life again.” 

“Then,” said Socrates, “if there be such a thing 
as coming to life again, this would be the process of 
generation from the dead to the living?” 

“ Certainly.” 

“ So by this method also we reach the conclusion 


249 


PLATO 


ζῶντας ἐκ τῶν τεθνεώτων γεγονέναι οὐδὲν ἧττον 
ἢ τοὺς τεθνεῶτας ἐκ τῶν ζώντων" τούτου δὲ ὄντος 
, ’, > A 
ἱκανόν που ἐδόκει τεκμήριον εἶναι OTL ἀναγκαῖον 
\ a , \ Si, 9 Ψ \ 
τὰς τῶν τεθνεώτων ψυχὰς εἶναί που, ὅθεν δὴ 
I 4 “ » = , 
πάλιν γίγνεσθαι. Δοκεῖ μοι, ἔφη, ὦ Σώκρατες, 
al tf A 
ἐκ TOV ὡμολογημένων ἀναγκαῖον οὕτως ἔχειν. 
, 
17. ᾿Ιδὲ τοίνυν οὕτως, ἔφη, ὦ Κέβης, ὅτι οὐδ᾽ 
/ 3 \ a \ 
ἀδίκως ὡμολογήκαμεν, ws ἐμοὶ δοκεῖ. εἰ yap 
μὴ ἀεὶ ἀνταποδιδοίη τὰ ἕτερα τοῖς ἑτέροις γιυγνό- 
’, rd 
μενα ὡσπερεὶ κύκλῳ περιιόντα, ἀλλ εὐθεῖά τις εἴη 
ἡ γένεσις ἐκ τοῦ ἑτέρου μόνον εἰς τὸ καταντικρὺ 
καὶ μὴ ἀνακάμπτοι πάλιν ἐπὶ τὸ ἕτερον μηδὲ 
καμπὴν ποιοῖτο, οἶσθ᾽ ὅτι πάντα τελευτῶντα τὸ 
αὐτὸ σχῆμα ἂν σχοίη καὶ τὸ αὐτὸ πάθος ἂν πάθοι 
\ , , a , ” 7O\ 
καὶ παύσαιτο γιγνόμενα; Πῶς λέγεις; ἔφη. Οὐδὲν 
᾽ A 
χαλεπόν, ἢ δ᾽ ὅς, ἐννοῆσαι ὃ λέγω: ἀλλ᾽ οἷον 
᾽ \ ’ \ Μ Ν 2 » ’ὔ 
εἰ τὸ καταδαρθάνειν μὲν εἴη, τὸ δ᾽ ἀνεγείρεσθαι 
’ / a 
μὴ ἀνταποδιδοίη γιγνόμενον ἐκ τοῦ καθεύδοντος, 
. > ὦ a 0.089) ΤᾺ a Whigs 
οἶσθ᾽ ὅτι τελευτῶντα πάντ᾽ ἂν λῆρον τὸν Evdu- 
, ᾽ , \ 5) πον , Re TN 
μίωνα ἀποδείξειεν καὶ οὐδαμοῦ ἂν φαίνοιτο διὰ τὸ 
/ / 
καὶ τἄλλα πάντα ταὐτὸν ἐκείνῳ πεπονθέναι, 
καθεύδειν. κἂν εἰ συγκρίνοιτο μὲν πάντα, δια- 
κρίνοιτο δὲ μή, ταχὺ ἂν τὸ τοῦ ᾿Αναξαγόρου γεγο- 
νὸς εἴη, ὁμοῦ πάντα χρήματα. ὡσαύτως δέ, ὦ 
φίλε Κέβης, εἰ ἀποθνήσκοι μὲν πάντα, ὅσα τοῦ 
an / ᾽ A \ > / , > , 
ζῆν μεταλάβοι, ἐπειδὴ δὲ ἀποθάνοι, μένοι ἐν τούτῳ 
τῷ σχήματι τὰ τεθνεῶτα καὶ μὴ πάλιν ἀναβιώ- 
2 \ lal 
TKOLTO, ἄρ᾽ οὐ πολλὴ ἀνάγκη τελευτῶντα πάντα 
τεθνάναι καὶ μηδὲν ζῆν; εἰ γὰρ ἐκ μὲν τῶν ἄλλων 
A , A x - μ , 
τὰ ζῶντα γίγνοιτο, τὰ δὲ ζῶντα θνήσκοι, Tis 
250 


PHAEDO 


that the living are generated from the dead, just as 
much as the dead from the living; and since this 
is the case, it seems to me to be a sufficient proof 
that the souls of the dead exist somewhere, whence 
they come back to life.’’ 

“1 think, Socrates, that results necessarily from 
our previous admissions.” 

“‘ Now here is another method, Cebes, to prove, as 
it seems to me, that we were right in making those 
admissions. For if generation did not proceed from 
opposite to opposite and back again, going round, as 
it were in a circle, but always went forward in a 
straight line without turning back or curving, then, 
you know, in the end all things would have the 
same form and be acted upon in the same way and 
stop being generated at all.” 

«“ What do you mean ?”’ said he. 

1} is not at all hard,”’ said Socrates, “to understand 
what I mean. For example, if the process of falling 
asleep existed, but not the opposite process of waking 
from sleep, in the end, you know, that would make 
the sleeping Endymion mere nonsense; he would 
be nowhere, for everything else would be in the 
same state as he, sound asleep. Or if all things 
were mixed together and never separated, the 
saying of Anaxagoras, ‘all things are chaos,’ would 
soon come true. And in like manner, my dear 
Cebes, if all things that have life should die, and, 
when they had died, the dead should remain in 
that condition, is it not inevitable that at last all 
things would be dead and nothing alive? For if 
the living were generated from any other things 
than from the dead, and the living were to die, is 


251 


PLATO 


μηχανὴ μὴ οὐ πάντα καταναλωθῆναι εἰς τὸ 
τεθνάναι; Οὐδὲ μία μοι δοκεῖ, ἔφη ὁ Κέβης, 
a Σώκρατες, ἀλλά μοι δοκεῖς παντάπασιν ἀληθῆ 
λέγειν. Ἔστιν γάρ, ἔφη, ὦ Κέβης, ὡς ἐμοὶ δοκεῖ, 
παντὸς μᾶλλον οὕτω, καὶ ἡμεῖς αὐτὰ ταῦτα οὐκ 
ἐξαπατώμενοι ὁμολογοῦμεν, ἀλλ᾽ ἔστι τῷ ὄντι 
καὶ τὸ ἀναβιώσκεσθαι καὶ ἐκ τῶν τεθνεώτων τοὺς 
ζῶντας γίγνεσθαι καὶ τὰς τῶν τεθνεώτων ψυχὰς 


E εἶναι.ἷ 


73 


18. Kai μήν, ἔφη ὁ Κέβης ὑπολαβών, καὶ 
κατ᾽ ἐκεῖνόν γε τὸν λόγον ὦ Σώκρατες, εἰ 
ἀληθής ἐστιν, ὃν σὺ εἴωθας θαμὰ λέγειν, ὅτι 
ἡμῖν ἡ μάθησις οὐκ ἄλλο τι ἢ ἀνάμνησις τυγχάνει 
οὖσα, καὶ κατὰ τοῦτον ἀνάγκη που ἡμᾶς ἐν 
προτέρῳ τινὶ χρόνῳ μεμαθηκέναι ἃ νῦν ἀνα- 
μιμνῃσκόμεθα. τοῦτο δὲ ἀδύνατον, εἰ μὴ ἦν 
που ἡμῖν ἡ ψυχὴ πρὶν ἐν τῷδε τῷ ἀνθρωπίνῳ 
εἴδει γενέσθαι" ὥστε καὶ ταύτῃ ἀθάνατον ἡ 
ψυχή τι ἔοικεν εἶναι. ᾿Αλλά, ὧ Κέβης, ἔφη ὁ 
Σιμμίας ὑπολαβών, ποῖαι τούτων αἱ ἀποδείξεις; 
ὑπόμνησόν με" οὐ γὰρ σφόδρα ἐν τῷ παρόντι 
μέμνημαι. Ἑνὶ μὲν λόγῳ, ἔφη ὁ Κέβης, καλ- 
λίστῳ, ὅτι ἐρωτώμενοι οἱ ἄνθρωποι, ἐάν τις 
καλῶς ἐρωτᾷ, αὐτοὶ λέγουσιν πάντα a ἔχει: 
καίτοι εἰ μὴ ἐτύγχανεν αὐτοῖς “ἐπιστήμη ἐνοῦσα 
καὶ ὀρθὸς λόγος, οὐκ ἂν οἷοί a ἦσαν τοῦτο 
ποιῆσαι. ἔπειτα ἐάν τις ἐπὶ τὰ διαγράμματα 
ἄγῃ ἢ ἄλλο τι τῶν τοιούτων, ἐνταῦθα σαφέστατα 
κατηγορεῖ, ὅτι τοῦτο οὕτως ἔχει. Te δὲ μὴ 

1 After εἶναι the MSS. read καὶ ταῖς μέν γε ἀγαθαῖς ἄμεινον 
εἶναι, ταῖς δὲ κακαῖς κάκιον, ‘Sand that the good fare better 


and the bad worse.” Bracketed by Stallbaum, followed by 
Schanz, Burnet, and others, 


252 


PHAEDO 


there any escape from the final result that all things 
would be swallowed up in death?” 

“I see none, Socrates,’ said Cebes. “ What you 
say seems to be perfectly true.” 

“1 think, Cebes,” said he, “it is absolutely so, and 
we are not deluded in making these admissions, but 
the return to life is an actual fact, and it is a fact 
that the living are generated from the dead and that 
the souls of the dead exist.” 

“And besides,’ Cebes rejoined, “if it iis true, 
Socrates, as you are fond of saying, that our learning 
is nothing else than recollection, then this would be 
an additional argument that we must necessarily 
have learned in some previous time what we now 
remember. But this is impossible if our soul did 
not exist somewhere before being born in this human 
form ; and so by this argument also it appears that 
the soul is immortal.” 

“ But, Cebes,”’ said Simmias, “ what were the 
proofs of this? Remind me; for I do not recollect 
very well just now.” 

“ Briefly,” said Cebes, “a very good proof is this: 
When people are questioned, if you put the questions 
well, they answer correctly of themselves about 
everything; and yet if they had not within them 
some knowledge and right reason, they could not do 
this. And that this is so is shown most clearly if 
you take them to mathematical diagrams or any- 
thing of that sort.” 

“And if you are not convinced in that way, 


253 


PLATO 


ταύτῃ γέ, ἔφη, πείθει, ὦ Σιμμία, ὁ Σωκράτης, 
σκέψαι, ἂν τῇδέ πῇ σοι “σκοπουμένῳ συνδόξῃ. 
ἀπιστεῖς γὰρ δή, πῶς ἡ καλουμένη μάθησις 
ἀνάμνησίς ἐστιν; ᾿Απιστῷ μέν σοι ἔγωγε, ἢ δ᾽ 
ὃς ὁ Σιμμίας, οὔ, αὐτὸ δὲ τοῦτο, ἔφη, δέομαι 
μαθεῖν περὶ οὗ ὁ λόγος, ἀναμνῃσθῆναι. καὶ σχεδόν 
γε ἐξ ὧν Κέβης ἐπεχείρησε λέγειν ἤδη μέμνημαι 
καὶ πείθομαι: οὐδὲν μέντ᾽ ἂν ἧττον ἀκούοιμι νῦν, 
πῇ σὺ ἐπεχείρησας, λέγειν. Τῇδ᾽ ἔγωγε, ἦ δ᾽ 
ὅς. ὁμολογοῦμεν γὰρ δήπου, εἴ τίς τι ἀνα- 
μνησθήσεται, δεῖν αὐτὸν τοῦτο πρότερόν ποτε 
ἐπίστασθαι. Πάνυ γ᾽, ἔφη. ἾΑρ᾽ οὖν καὶ τόδε 
ὁμολογοῦμεν, ὅταν ἐπιστήμη παραγίγνηται τρόπῳ 
τοιούτῳ, ἀνάμνησιν εἶναι; λέγω é τινα τρόπον 
τόνδε: ἐάν τίς tel ἢ ἰδὼν ἢ ἀκούσας ἤ τινα 
ἄλλην αἴσθησιν λαβὼν μὴ μόνον ἐκεῖνο γνῷ, 
ἀλλὰ καὶ ἕτερον ἐννοήσῃ, οὗ μὴ ἡ αὐτὴ ἐπιστήμη, 
ἀλλ᾽ ἄλλη, ἄρα οὐχὶ τοῦτο δικαίως ἐλέγομεν ὅτι 
ἀνεμνήσθη, οὗ τὴν ἔννοιαν ἔλαβεν; ἸΠῶς λέγεις; 
Οἷον τὰ τοιάδε: ἄλλη που ἐπιστήμη ἀνθρώπου 
καὶ λύρας. Πῶς γὰρ οὔ; Οὐκοῦν οἶσθα, ὅτι 
οἱ ἐρασταί, ὅταν ἴδωσιν λύραν ἢ ἱμάτιον ἢ 
ἄχλο τὸ οἷς Ta παιδικὰ αὐτῶν εἴωθε χρῆσθαι, 
πάσχουσι τοῦτο" ἔγνωσάν τε τὴν λύραν καὶ ἐν 
τῇ διανοίᾳ ἔλαβον τὸ εἶδος τοῦ παιδός, οὗ ἦν ἡ 
λύρα; τοῦτο δέ ἐστιν ἀνάμνησις" ὥσπερ καὶ 
Σιμμίαν τις ἰδὼν πολλάκις Κέβητος ἀνεμνήσθη, 
καὶ ἄλλα που μυρία τοιαῦτ᾽ ἂν εἴη. Μυρία 
μέντοι vn Δία, ἔφη ὁ Σιμμίας. Οὐκοῦν, ἢ δ᾽ 
ὅς, τὸ τοιοῦτον ἀνάμνησίς τίς ἐστι; μάλιστα 


1 After τὶ BCD read πρότερον, which Schanz brackets, T 
reads τι ἕτερόν τι, Burnet τι ἕτερον. 


254 


PHAEDO 


Simmias,” said Socrates, “see if you don’t agree 
when you look at it in this way. You are in- 
credulous, are you not, how that which is called 
learning can be recollection?” 

“JT am not incredulous,” said Simmias, “but I 
want just what we are talking about, recollection. 
And from what Cebes undertook to say I already 
begin to recollect and be convinced ; nevertheless, 
I should like to hear what you were going to say.” 

“It was this,” said he. “We agree, I suppose, 
that if anyone is to remember anything, he must 
know it at some previous time?” 

“Certainly,” said he. 

“Then do we agree to this also, that when 
knowledge comes in such a way, it is recollection ? 
What I mean is this: If a man, when he has heard 
or seen or in any other way perceived a thing, knows 
not only that thing, but also has a perception of 
some other thing, the knowledge of which is not the 
same, but different, are we not right in saying that he 
recollects the thing of which he has the perception ?” 

« What do you mean?” 

“Let me give,an example. Knowledge of a man 
is different from knowledge of a lyre.”’ 

“OF course: 

“Well, you know that a lover when he sees a lyre 
or a cloak or anything else which his beloved is wont 
to use, perceives the lyre and in his mind receives an 
image of the boy to whom the lyre belongs, do you 
not? But this is recollection, just as when one sees 
Simmias, one often remembers Cebes, and I could 
cite countless such examples.” 

“To be sure you could,” said Simmias. 

“ Now,” said he, “is that sort of thing a kind of 


255 


74 


PLATO 


/ cid » / A 2 aA a € \ 
μέντοι, ὅταν τίς τοῦτο πάθῃ περὶ ἐκεῖνα, ἃ ὑπὸ 
, fal “ 
χρόνου καὶ τοῦ μὴ ἐπισκοπεῖν ἤδη ἐπελέληστο; 
/ \ 
Πάνυ μὲν οὖν, ἔφη. Τί δέ; ἦ δ᾽ ὅς: ἔστιν 
“ , 3 , \ fi / 
ἵππον γεγραμμένον ἰδόντα καὶ λύραν γεγραμμένην 
; ΄ 3 “ἅμ \ / ? / 
ἀνθρώπου ἀναμνῃσθῆναι, καὶ Σιμμίαν ἰδόντα 
[ 4 a 
γεγραμμένον Κέβητος ἀναμνησθῆναι; Πάνυ ye. 
Οὐκοῦν καὶ Σιμμίαν ἰδόντα γεγραμμένον αὐτοῦ 
= / A 
Σιμμίου ἀναμνῃσθῆναι; "ἔστι μέντοι, ἔφη. 
¢ bf a 
19. "Ap οὖν οὐ κατὰ πάντα ταῦτα συμβαίνει 
A > 7 = \ 3 oF 16 / 4 εἶ οἾ 
τὴν ἀνάμνησιν εἶναι μὲν ἀφ᾽ ὁμοίων, εἶναι δὲ καὶ 
ἀπὸ ἀνομοίων; Συμβαίνει. ᾿Αλλ᾽ ὅταν γε ἀπὸ 
τῶν ὁμοίων ἀναμιμνήσκηταί τίς τι, ap οὐκ avay- 
al ’ ΄ > lal » ’ 
καῖον τόδε προσπάσχειν, ἐννοεῖν εἴτε τι ἐλλείπει 
A \ \ ¢ , \ td 
τοῦτο κατὰ THY ὁμοιότητα εἴτε μὴ ἐκείνου οὗ 
3 / 2 / Μ / § > oo 
ἀνεμνήσθη; ᾿Ανάγκη, ἔφη. Σκόπει δή, ἦ δ᾽ ὅς, 
a / UA 
εἰ ταῦτα οὕτως ἔχει. φαμέν πού τι εἶναι ἴσον, 
οὐ ξύλον λέγω ξύλῳ οὐδὲ λίθον λίθῳ οὐδ᾽ ἄλλο 
A / SENT, > \ \ a , 
τῶν τοιούτων οὐδέν, ἀλλὰ παρὰ ταῦτα πάντα 
[ὦ , > Ἂν NP Lis nm /, 9 a 7, 
ἕτερόν TL, αὐτὸ TO ἴσον: φῶμέν τι εἶναι ἢ μηδέν; 
“a [2 « , -“ 
Φῶμεν μέντοι νὴ Av, ἔφη ὁ Σιμμίας, θαυμαστῶς 
γε. Ἦ καὶ ἐπιστάμεθα αὐτὸ ὃ ἔστιν; Ilavu γε, 
A / 
ἢ δ᾽ os. Πόθεν λαβόντες αὐτοῦ τὴν ἐπιστήμην; 
A ΤᾺ / 
dp οὐκ ἐξ ὧν νῦν δὴ ἐλέγομεν, ἢ ξύλα ἢ λίθους 
a v Μ 150 Μ ᾽ , 3 a 
ἢ AaXAa aTTa LOOVTES LOA, EK τούτων ἐκεῖνο 
256 


PHAEDO 


recollection? Especially when it takes place with 
regard to things which have already been forgotten 
through time and inattention ?”’ 

“ Certainly,” he replied. 

“Well, then,” said Socrates, “can a person on 
seeing a picture of a horse or of a lyre be reminded 
of a man, or on seeing a picture of Simmias be 
reminded of Cebes?”’ 

* Surely.” 

“ And on seeing a picture of Simmias he can be 
reminded of Simmias himself?” 

“ Yes,” said he. 

“ All these examples show, then, that recollection 
is caused by like things and also by unlike things, 
do they not?” 

“AY es. 7 

«“ And when one has a recollection of anything 
caused by like things, will he not also inevitably 
consider whether this recollection offers a perfect 
likeness of the thing recollected, or not δ᾿ 

Inevitably,” -he replied. 

“Now see,” said he, “if this is true. We say 
there is such a thing as equality. I do not mean 
one piece of wood equal to another, or one stone to 
another, or anything of that sort, but something 
beyond that—equality in the abstract. Shall we 
say there is such a thing, or not?” 

“We shall say that there is,” said Simmias, “ most 
decidedly.”’ 

« And do we know what it is?” 

“Certainly,” said he. 

“Whence did we derive the knowledge of it? 
Is it not from the things we were just speaking 
of? Did we not, by seeing equal pieces of wood 


257 


PLATO 


ἐνενοήσαμεν, ἕτερον Ov τούτων; ἣ οὐχ ἕτερόν σοι 
, ‘ \ A A 9ῳ 5» > / \ 
φαίνεται; σκόπει δὲ καὶ τῇδε. ap οὐ λίθοι μὲν 
’ \ » A 
ἴσοι καὶ ξύλα ἐνίοτε ταὐτὰ ὄντα τῷ μὲν ἴσα 
A 3 x 
φαίνεται, τῷ δ᾽ ov; Πάνυ μὲν οὖν. Τί δέ; 
᾽ \ ν ” σ Ν U ) 4 RK € 
αὐτὰ τὰ ἴσα ἔστιν ὅτε ἄνισά σοι ἐφάνη, ἢ ἡ 
>] , ᾽ , > / / = , 
ἰσότης ἀνισότης; Οὐδεπώποτέ ye, ὦ Σώκρατες. 
Οὐ ταὐτὸν ἄρα ἐστίν, ἢ δ᾽ ὅς, ταῦτά τε τὰ ἴσα 
A , 
Kal αὐτὸ τὸ ἴσον. Οὐδαμῶς μοι φαίνεται, ὦ 
Σώκρατες. ᾿Αλλὰ μὴν ἐκ τούτων γ᾽, ἔφη, τῶν 
ἴσων, ἑτέρων ὄντων ἐκείνου τοῦ ἴσου, ὅμως αὐτοῦ 
τὴν ἐπιστήμην ἐννενόηκάς τε καὶ εἴληφας; ᾿Αλη- 
θέστατα, ἔφη, λέγεις. Οὐκοῦν ἢ ὁμοίου ὄντος 
τούτοις ἢ ἀνομοίου; Ildvu γε. Διαφέρει δέ γε, 
ε \ A 
ἢ δ᾽ ὅς, οὐδέν: ἕως ἂν ἄλλο ἰδὼν ἀπὸ ταύτης τῆς 
» ΝΜ 32 “ » “ » 5 , 
ὄψεως ἄλλο ἐννοήσῃς, εἴτε ὅμοιον εἴτε ἀνόμοιον, 
> a » ΦΉΣΑΝΤΟΣ , , ΄ 
ἀναγκαῖον, ἔφη, αὐτὸ ἀνάμνησιν γεγονέναι. Πάνυ 
, / i 2 ? a / fl a 
μὲν οὖν. Τί δέ; ἢ δ᾽ ὅς: 4 πάσχομέν τι τοιοῦ- 
\ > a A A 
τον περὶ τὰ ἐν τοῖς ξύλοις τε καὶ ols νῦν δὴ 
, a » ne / en Cd ΕΠ) 
ἐλέγομεν τοῖς ἴσοις; ἄρα φαίνεται ἡμῖν οὕτως ἴσα 
? σ 3: Ν ΤᾺ »Μ Mv a » A > 4 
εἶναι ὥσπερ αὐτὸ ὃ ἔστιν ἴσον, ἢ ἐνδεῖ τι ἐκείνῳ 
a »" > ἣν ΕΣ a > 7 \ 
τῷ τοιοῦτον εἶναι οἷον τὸ ἴσον, ἢ οὐδέν; Kal 
3 “ ἴω ς A 
πολύ ye, ἔφη, ἐνδεῖ. Οὐκοῦν ὁμολογοῦμεν, ὅταν 
4 A 
tis τι ἰδὼν ἐννοήσῃ, ὅτε βούλεται μὲν τοῦτο, ὃ 
258 


PHAEDO 


or stones or other things, derive from them a 
knowledge of abstract equality, which is another 
thing? Or do you not think it is another thing? 
Look at the matter in this way. Do not equal 
stones and pieces of wood, though they remain the 
same, sometimes appear to us equal in one respect 
and unequal in another?”’ 

Certainly.” 

“ Well, then, did absolute equals ever appear to 
you unequal or equality inequality ?”’ 

“No, Socrates, never.” 

“Then,” said he, “those equals are not the same 
as equality in the abstract.” 

“ Not at all, I should say, Socrates.” 

“ But from those equals,” said he, “ which are not 
the same as abstract equality, you have nevertheless 
conceived and acquired knowledge of it?” 

“Very true, hegeplied. 

“ And it is either like them or unlike them?” 

Certainly.” 

“It -makes no difference,” said he. ‘ Whenever 
the sight of one thing brings you a perception of 
another, whether they be like or unlike, that must 
necessarily be recollection.” 

« Surely: + 

“Now then,” said he, “do the equal pieces of 
wood and the equal things of which we were 
speaking just now affect us in this way: Do they 
seem to us to be equal as abstract equality is equal, 
or do they somehow fall short of being like abstract 
equality?” 

“ They fall very far short of it,” said he. 

“Do we agree, then, that when anyone on seeing a 
thing thinks, ‘This thing that I see aims at being 


259 


75 


PLATO 


Le > \ « ~ Ἂν Μ [οἱ » > “ 
νῦν ἐγὼ ὁρῶ, εἶναι οἷον ἄλλο TL τῶν ὄντων, ἐνδεῖ 
nr “ > 
δὲ καὶ ov δύναται τοιοῦτον εἶναι οἷον ἐκεῖνο, ἀλλ 
ἔστιν φαυλότερον, ἀναγκαῖόν που τὸν τοῦτο 
ἐννοοῦντα τυχεῖν προειδότα ἐκεῖνο ᾧ φησιν αὐτὸ 
προσεοικέναι μέν, ἐνδεεστέρως δὲ ἔχειν; ᾿Αν- 
, fo) al 
aykn. Τί οὖν; τοιοῦτον πεπόνθαμεν καὶ ἡμεῖς, 
a Μ , ἊΝ ν Ν ᾽ \ x 7 4 
ἢ οὔ, περί Te τὰ ἴσα Kal αὐτὸ τὸ ἴσον; ἸΙαντά- 
,ὔ a Μ a / \ 
πασί ye. ᾿Αναγκαῖον apa ἡμᾶς προειδέναι τὸ 
ἴσον πρὸ ἐκείνου τοῦ χρόνου, ὅτε τὸ πρῶτον 
ἰδόντες τὰ ἴσα ἐνενοήσαμεν, ὅτι ὀρέγεται μὲν 
πάντα ταῦτα εἶναι οἷον τὸ ἴσον, ἔχει δὲ ἐν- 
lA » “ 3 \ Ἁ 
δεεστέρως. Ἔστι ταῦτα. ᾿Αλλὰ μὴν καὶ τόδε 
ς la] \ Ν 3 Ἁ ) / Ν 
ὁμολογοῦμεν, μὴ ἄλλοθεν αὐτὸ ἐννενοηκέναι μηδὲ 
δυνατὸν εἶναι ἐννοῆσαι, GAN ἢ ἐκ τοῦ ἰδεῖν ἢ 
[2 a mM Ν a , / Jol 
ἅψασθαι ἢ ἔκ τινος ἄλλης τῶν αἰσθήσεων" ταὐτὸν 
δὲ πάντα ταῦτα λέγω. Ταὐτὸν γάρ ἐστιν, ὦ 
, , a / a G ΄ 
Σώκρατες, πρός γε ὃ βούλεται δηλῶσαι ὁ λόγος. 
3 \ \ ὃ} » Led 2 , ὃ Coy >] a 
Αλλὰ μὲν δὴ Ex ye τῶν αἰσθήσεων Set ἐννοῆσαι, 
\ a ΄ / 
ὅτε πάντα τὰ ἐν ταῖς αἰσθήσεσιν ἐκείνου τε ὀρέ- 
γεται τοῦ ὃ ἔστιν ἴσον, καὶ αὐτοῦ ἐνδεέστερά 
? C a cad / ε Od Π \ “ Ν 
ἐστιν’ ἢ πως λέγομεν; ὕτως. po του apa 
wv e A Cc ἃς \ 6 VA \ 3 
ἄρξασθαι ἡμᾶς ὁρᾶν Kal ἀκούειν καὶ τἄλλα 
> 4 cal ΝΜ , 3 ’, 
αἰσθάνεσθαι τυχεῖν ἔδει που εἰληφότας ἐπιστήμην 
A A ? a 
αὐτοῦ τοῦ ἴσου ὅ τι ἔστιν, εἰ ἐμέλλομεν τὰ ἐκ τῶν 
na ’, Ὁ 
αἰσθήσεων ἴσα ἐκεῖσε ἀνοίσειν, ὅτε προθυμεῖται 
a 3 “ ΄“ 
μὲν πάντα τοιαῦτ᾽ εἶναι οἷον ἐκεῖνο, ἔστιν δὲ αὐτοῦ 
φαυλότερα. ᾿Ανάγκη ἐκ τῶν προειρημένων, ὦ 
A , ‘ “ 
Σώκρατες. Οὐκοῦν γενόμενοι εὐθὺς ἑωρῶμέν τε 
1 Schanz brackets ὅτι προθυμεῖται. . . φαυλότερα. 


260 


PHAEDO 


like some other thing that exists, but falls short and is 
unable to be like that thing, but is inferior to it,’ he 
who thinks thus must of necessity have previous 
knowledge of the thing which he says the other 
resembles but falls short of?” 

“ We must.” 

“Well then, is this just what happened to us 
with regard to the equal things and equality in the 
abstract ?”’ 

“Tt certainly is.” 

“Then we must have had knowledge of equality 
before the time when we first saw equal things and 
thought, ‘ All these things are aiming to be like 
equality but fall short.’ ”’ 

“ That is true.” 

“And we agree, also, that we have not gained 
knowledge of it, and that it is impossible to gain 
this knowledge, except by sight or touch or some 
other of the senses? I consider that all the senses 
are alike.” 

“Yes, Socrates, they are all alike, for the pur- 
poses of our argument.” 

“Then it is through the senses that we must 
learn that all sensible objects strive after absolute 
equality and fall short of it. Is that our view?” 

caves. 

“ Then before we began to see or hear or use the 
other senses we must somewhere have gained a 
knowledge of abstract or absolute equality, if we 
were to compare with it the equals which we per- 
ceive by the senses, and see that all such things 
yearn to be like abstract equality but fall short of it.” 

“That follows necessarily from what we have said 
before, Socrates.” 


261 


PLATO 


καὶ ἠκούομεν Kal τὰς ἄλλας αἰσθήσεις εἴχομεν; 
/ 
Πάνυ ye. “Eder δέ ye, φαμέν, πρὸ τούτων τὴν 
τοῦ ἴσου ἐπιστήμην εἰληφέναι; Ναί. Πρὶν 
/ ΝΜ i Μ > 7 € -“ > \ 
γενέσθαι dpa, ὡς ἔοικεν, ἀνάγκη ἡμῖν αὐτὴν 
εἰληφέναι. “EKorxev. 
rf , la] 
20. Οὐκοῦν εἰ μὲν λαβόντες αὐτὴν πρὸ τοῦ 
/ ΝΜ Ψ ΄ > 4 \ \ 
γενέσθαι ἔχοντες ἐγενόμεθα, ἠπιστάμεθα καὶ πρὶν 
γενέσθαι καὶ εὐθὺς γενόμενοι οὐ μόνον τὸ ἴσον καὶ 
τὸ μεῖζον καὶ τὸ ἔλαττον ἀλλὰ καὶ ξύμπαντα τὰ 
τοιαῦτα; οὐ γὰρ περὶ τοῦ ἴσου νῦν ὁ λόγος ἡμῖν 
cal ΄ A \ \ > A lal an \ > n 
μᾶλλον τι ἢ καὶ περὶ αὐτοῦ τοῦ καλοῦ, καὶ αὐτοῦ 
A 3 a) \ Z Α εἰ ἡ (oy f 
τοῦ ἀγαθοῦ καὶ δικαίου καὶ ὁσίου, καί, ὅπερ λέγω, 
No μὲν τῶν ᾽ , NU AL μὸν 
περὶ ἁπάντων ols ἐπισφραγιζόμεθα τὸ ὃ ἔστι, 
καὶ ἐν ταῖς ἐρωτήσεσιν ἐρωτῶντες καὶ ἐν ταῖς 
, tal 
ἀποκρίσεσιν ἀποκρινόμενοι. ὥστε ἀναγκαῖον 
a / \ “ Ν le 
ἡμῖν τούτων πάντων τὰς ἐπιστήμας πρὸ τοῦ 
lal 3 
γενέσθαι εἰληφένα. Ἔστι ταῦτα. Καὶ εἰ 
[4 
μέν γε λαβόντες ἑκάστοτε μὴ ἐπιλελήσμεθα, 
, Ἂ 
εἰδότας ἀεὶ γίγνεσθαι καὶ διὰ βίου εἰδέναι: τὸ 
A Ne a 3 9 [4 ’, 3 4 
γὰρ εἰδέναι τοῦτ᾽ ἐστίν, λαβόντα του ἐπιστήμην 
Μ \ A ᾽ , Α A 3 lal 40 
ἔχειν Kal μὴ ἀπολωλεκέναι' ἢ οὐ τοῦτο λήθην 
φ / ΄ ᾽ / / 
λέγομεν, ὦ Σιμμία, ἐπιστήμης ἀποβολήν; άν- 
ΓῚ , ? , 4 
τως δήπου, ἔφη, ὦ Σώκρατες. Et δέ γε, οἶμαι, 
΄ \ f ᾿ 2 7 
λαβόντες πρὶν γενέσθαι γιγνόμενοι ἀπωλέσαμεν, 
a ΄ Ν > 
ὕστερον δὲ ταῖς αἰσθήσεσι χρώμενον περὶ αὐτὰ 
᾽ / 3 4 4 3 / “ 
ἐκείνας ἀναλαμβάνομεν τὰς ἐπιστήμας, ἅς ποτε 
262 


PHAEDO 


‘© And we saw and heard and had the other senses 
as soon as we were born?” 

“ Certainly.” 

“ But, we say, we must have acquired a knowledge 
of equality before we had these senses ἢ 

SV eS. 

“Then it appears that we must have acquired it 
before we were born.” 

“Tt does.” 

“‘ Now if we had acquired that knowledge before 
we were born, and were born with it, we knew 
before we were born and at the moment of birth 
not only the equal and the greater and the less, but 
all such abstractions? For our present argument is 
no more concerned with the equal than with abso- 
lute beauty and the absolute good and the just and 
the holy, and, in short, with all those things which 
we stamp with the seal of ‘ absolute ’ in our dialectic 
process of questions and answers; so that we must 
necessarily have acquired knowledge of all these 
before our birth.” 

“Phat is-true. |; 

“And if after acquiring it we have not, in 
each case, forgotten it, we must always be born 
knowing these things, and must know them through- 
out our life; for to know is to have acquired know- 
ledge and to have retained it without losing it, and 
the loss of knowledge is just what we mean when 
we speak of forgetting, is it not, Simmias?” 

“ Certainly, Socrates,” said he. 

«“ But, I suppose, if we acquired knowledge before 
we were born and lost it at birth, but afterwards by 
the use of our senses regained the knowledge which 
we had previously possessed, would not the process 


263 


76 


PLATO 


\ \ v 4 » ᾽ ΠΥ “ ͵ 
καὶ πρὶν εἴχομεν, ap οὐχ ὃ καλοῦμεν μανθά- 
νειν οἰκείαν ἐπιστήμην ἀναλαμβάνειν ἂν εἴη; 
τοῦτο δέ που ἀναμιμνήσκεσθαι λέγοντες ὀρθῶς ἂν 
λέγοιμεν; Πάνυ γε. Δυνατὸν γὰρ δὴ τοῦτό 

, ’, ᾽ , , A 27 a ? 4 v 
γε ἐφάνη, αἰσθόμενόν τε ἢ ἰδόντα ἢ ἀκούσαντα 7} 
τινα ἄλλην αἴσθησιν λαβόντα ἕτερόν τι ἀπὸ 

/ bd a a > [4 A ΠῚ 
τούτου ἐννοῆσαι, ὃ ἐπελέληστο, ᾧ τοῦτο ἐπλη- 

’ » ΄ a a a Ld σ , 
σίαζεν ἀνόμοιον ὃν ἢ ὅμοιον: ὥστε, ὅπερ λέγω, 
δυοῖν τὰ ἕτερα, ἤτοι ἐπιστάμενοί γε αὐτὰ γεγόνα- 

Ν.» / θ ὃ \ , f aA 
μεν καὶ ἐπιστάμεθα διὰ βίου πάντες, ἢ ὕστερον, 

ef f 3 \ 3 ᾽ Ἁ 3 f 

οὕς φαμεν μανθάνειν, οὐδὲν ἀλλ’ ἢ ἀναμιμνή- 
4 

σκονται οὗτοι, Kal ἡ μάθησις ἀνάμνησις ἂν εἴη. 

Καὶ μάλα δὴ οὕτως ἔχει, ὦ Σώκρατες. 

21. Πότερον οὖν αἱρεῖ, ὦ Σιμμία, ἐπισταμέ- 

νους ἡμᾶς γεγονέναι, ἢ ἀναμιμνήσκεσθαι ὕστερον 
/ / 
ὧν πρότερον ἐπιστήμην εἰληφότες ἦμεν; Οὐκ 
ἔχω, ὦ Σώκρατες, ἐν τῷ παρόντι ἑλέσθαι. Τί 
δὲ τόδε; ἔχεις ἑλέσθαι, καὶ πῇ σοι δοκεῖ περὶ 
αὐτοῦ: ἀνὴρ ἐπιστάμενος περὶ ὧν ἐπίσταται 
» \ 
ἔχοι ἂν δοῦναι λόγον ἢ ov; Πολλὴ ἀνάγκη, 
ἔφη, ὦ Σώκρατες. εἶ καὶ δοκοῦσί σοι πάντες 
ἔ διδό > δ τού ὃν νῦν δὴ 
ἔχειν διδόναι λόγον περὶ τούτων ὧν νῦν δὴ 
’ / ’ ΜΝ Μ e / 
ἐλέγομεν; Βουλοίμην μέντ᾽ av, ἔφη ὁ Σιμμίας" 
=~ οι Ἁ 
ἀλλὰ πολὺ μᾶλλον φοβοῦμαι, μὴ αὔριον 
, 3 “- 2 ΄ ὑὃ \ ᾽ , , 
τηνικάδε οὐκέτι ἢ ἀνθρώπων οὐδεὶς ἀξίως οἷός τε 
τοῦτο ποιῆσαι. Οὐκ ἄρα δοκοῦσί σοι ἐπίστασθαί 
γε, ἔφη, ὦ Σιμμία, πάντες αὐτά; Οὐδαμῶς. 


264 


PHAEDO 


which we call learning really be recovering know- 
ledge which is our own? And should we be right 
in calling this recollection ?” 

« Assuredly.” 

“ For we found that it is possible, on perceiving a 
thing by the sight or the hearing or any other sense, 
to call to mind from that perception another thing 
which had been forgotten, which was associated 
with the thing perceived, whether like it or unlike 
it; so that, as I said, one of two things is true, either 
we are all born knowing these things and know 
them all our lives, or afterwards, those who are said 
to learn merely remember, and learning would then 
be recollection.” 4 

“ That is certainly true, Socrates.” 

«“ Which then do you choose, Simmias? Were we 
born with the knowledge, or do we recollect after- 
wards things of which we had acquired knowledge 
before our birth ?”’ 

«1 cannot choose at this moment, Socrates.” 

“ How about this question? You can choose and 
you have some opinion about it : When a man knows, 
ean he give an account of what he knows or not?” 

“ Certainly he can, Socrates.” 

«“ And do you think that everybody can give an 
account of the matters about which we have just been 
talking ?”’ 

“1 wish they might,” said Simmias; “but on the 
contrary I fear that to-morrow, at this time, there 
will be no longer any man living who is able to do so 
properly.” 

“ Then, Simmias, you do not think all men know 
these things ?”’ 

“ΒΥ no means.” 


265 


PLATO 


3 , ΝΜ) [2 ν > / 
Αναμιμνήσκονται ἄρα & ποτε ἔμαθον; ᾿Ανάγκη. 
i a a 
Πότε λαβοῦσαι αἱ ψυχαὶ ἡμῶν τὴν ἐπιστήμην 
᾽ “Ὁ ξ > \ δ} ᾽ ᾽ aa Μ θ 
αὐτῶν; οὐ γὰρ δὴ ἀφ᾽ οὗ γε ἄνθρωποι γεγόναμεν. 
Οὐ δῆτα. Πρότερον ἄρα. Ναί. Ἦσαν ἄρα, 
φ Σ / e Νὴ \ Ld Ν > 
ὦ Σιμμία, αἱ ψυχαὶ καὶ πρότερον, πρὶν εἶναι 
, 
ἐν ἀνθρώπου εἴδει, χωρὶς σωμάτων, καὶ φρόνησιν 
9 ER} ree / , , 
εἶχον. ἴω μὴ ἄρα γιγνόμενοι λαμβάνομεν, ὦ 
Σώκρατες, ταύτας τὰς ἐπιστήμας" οὗτος γὰρ 
λείπεται ETL ὁ χρόνος. Εἶεν, ὦ ἑταῖρε: ἀπόλ- 
\ 3 \ > ’ »,Ἅ / > ἣν 
λυμεν δὲ αὐτὰς ἐν ποίῳ ἄλλῳ χρόνῳ; οὐ γὰρ 
\ ew / by \ [ « ς / 
δὴ ἔχοντές γε αὐτὰς γιγνόμεθα, ws ἄρτι ὡμολογή- 
σαμεν: ἢ ἐν τούτῳ ἀπόλλυμεν, ἐν ᾧπερ καὶ 
λαμβάνομεν; ἢ ἔχεις ἄλλον τινὰ εἰπεῖν χρόνον; 
Οὐδαμῶς, ὦ Σώκρατες, ἀλλὰ ἔλαθον ἐμαυτὸν 
οὐδὲν εἰπών. 
3 ef » Μ ec oA 4 ’ 
22. ἾΑρ᾽ οὖν οὕτως ἔχει, ἔφη, ἡμῖν, ὦ Σιμμία; 
᾽ \ » ΠΣ δ A > ’ \ 
εἰ μὲν ἔστιν ἃ θρυλοῦμεν ἀεῖ, καλόν τε Kal 
a / 
ἀγαθὸν καὶ πᾶσα ἡ τοιαύτη οὐσία, καὶ ἐπὶ 
ταύτην τὰ ἐκ τῶν αἰσθήσεων πάντα ἀναφέ- 
/ 
ρομεν, ὑπάρχουσαν πρότερον ἀνευρίσκοντες ἡμε- 
τέραν οὖσαν, καὶ ταῦτα ἐκείνῃ ἀπεικάζομεν, 
ἀναγκαῖον, οὕτως ὥσπερ καὶ ταῦτα ἔστιν, οὕτως 
καὶ τὴν ἡμετέραν ψυχὴν εἶναι καὶ πρὶν γεγονέναι 
e a > \ \ »Μ Lol » A ig , 
ἡμᾶς" εἰ δὲ μὴ ἔστι ταῦτα, ἄλλως ἂν ὁ λόγος 
φΦι “Ὁ » 
οὗτος εἰρημένος εἴη; ap οὕτως ἔχει, καὶ ἴση 
a \ 
ἀνάγκη ταῦτά τε εἶναι Kal Tas ἡμετέρας ψυχὰς 
πρὶν καὶ ἡμᾶς γεγονέναι, καὶ εἰ μὴ ταῦτα, οὐδὲ 
266 


PHAEDO 


« Then _ they recollect the things they once 
learned ?’ 

“ Necessarily.” 

“When did our souls acquire the knowledge of 
them? Surely not after we were born as human 
beings.” 

« Certainly not.” 

“ Then previously.” 

Yes 

“Then, Simmias, the souls existed previously, 
before they were in human form, apart from bodies, 
and they had intelligence.” 

“ Unless, Socrates, we acquire these ideas: at the 
moment of birth ; for that time still remains.’ 

“Very well, my friend. But at what other time do 
we lose them? For we are surely not born with 
them, as we just now agreed. Do we lose them at 
the moment when we receive them, or have you 
some other time to suggest?” 

‘ None whatever, Socrates. I did not notice that 
I was talking nonsense.” 

“Then, Simmias,” said he, “is this the state of 
the case? If, as we are always saying, the beautiful 
exists, and the good, and every essence of that kind, 
and if we refer all our sensations to these, which we 
find existed previously and are now ours, and com- 
pare our sensations with these, is it not a necessary 
inference that just as these abstractions exist, so our 
souls existed before we were born; and if these 
abstractions do not exist, our argument is of no 
force? Is this the case, and is it equally certain that 
provided these things exist our souls also existed 
before we were born, and that if these do not exist, 
neither did our souls?” 


267 


77 


PLATO 


τάδε; Ὑπερφυῶς, @ Σώκρατες, ἔφη ὁ Σιμμίας, 
δοκεῖ μοι ἡ αὐτὴ ἀνάγκη εἶναι, καὶ εἰς καλόν 
« 

γε καταφεύγει. 0 λόγος εἰς τὸ ὁμοίως εἶναι τήν 
τε ψυχὴν ἡμῶν πρὶν γενέσθαι: ἡμᾶς καὶ τὴν 
οὐσίαν, ἣν σὺ λέγεις. οὐ γὰρ ἔχω ἔγωγε οὐδὲν 
οὕτω μοι ἐναργὲς ὃν ὡς τοῦτο, τὸ πάντα τὰ 
τοιαῦτ᾽ εἶναι ὡς οἷόν τε μάλιστα, καλόν τε καὶ 
> \ \ 4 a \ a“ \ » 

ἀγαθὸν καὶ τἄλλα πάντα ἃ σὺ νῦν δὴ ἔλεγες" 

\ > \ - e Lo) > / / \ 
καὶ ἐμοὶ δοκεῖ ἱκανῶς ἀποδέδεικται. Τί δὲ 
δὴ Κέβητι; ἔφη ὁ Σωκράτης" δεῖ γὰρ καὶ 
Κέβητα πείθειν. ἹἹκανῶς, ἔφη ὁ Σιμμίας, ὡς 
ἔγωγε οἶμαι" καίτοι καρτερώτατος ἀνθρώπων 
ἐστὶν πρὸς τὸ ἀπιστεῖν τοῖς λόγοις" ἀλλ᾽ οἶμαι 
οὐκ ἐνδεῶς τοῦτο πεπεῖσθαι αὐτόν, ὅτι πρὶν 
γενέσθαι, ἡμᾶς ἦν ἡμῶν ἡ ψυ ή. 

23. Ἐν μέντοι, καὶ ἐπειδὰν ἀποθάνωμεν ἔτι 
ἔσται, οὐδὲ αὐτῷ μοι δοκεῖ, ἔφη, ὧ Σώκρατες, 
ἀποδεδεῖχθαι, ἀλλ᾽ ἔτι ἐνέστηκεν, ὃ νῦν δὴ Κέβης 
ἔλεγε, τὸ τῶν πολλῶν, ὅπως μὴ ἀποθνήσκοντος 
τοῦ ἀνθρώπου διασκεδαννῦται ἡ ψυχὴ καὶ αὐτῇ 
τοῦ εἶναι τοῦτο τέλος ἧ. τί γὰρ κωλύει γίγνεσθαι 
μὲν αὐτὴν καὶ ξυνίστασθαι ἄλλοθέν ποθεν καὶ 
εἶναι πρὶν καὶ εἰς ἀνθρώπειον σῶμα ἀφικέσθαι, 
ἐπειδὰν δὲ ἀφίκηται καὶ ἀπαλλάττηται τούτου, 
τότε καὶ αὐτὴν τελευτᾶν καὶ διαφθείρεσθαι; 
Εὖ λέγεις, ἔφη, ὦ Σιμμία, ὁ Κέβης. φαί- 
νεται γὰρ ὥσπερ ἥμισυ ἀποδεδεῖχθαι οὗ δεῖ, 
ὅτι πρὶν γενέσθαι ἡμᾶς ἦν ἡμῶν ἡ ψυχή' δεῖ 
δὲ προσαποδεῖξαι ὅτι καὶ ἐπειδὰν ἀποθάνωμεν 

by \ ka Μ a \ / ’ , 
οὐδὲν ἧττον ἔσται ἢ πρὶν γενέσθαι, εἰ μέλλει 

, e > , »᾿ > / / 
τέλος ἡ ἀπόδειξις ἔχειν. ᾿Αποδέδεικται μέν, 
Μ φ ’ \ f ¢ , 
ἔφη, ὦ Σιμμία te καὶ Κέβης, ὁ Σωκράτης, 
268 


PHAEDO 


« Socrates, it seems to me that there is absolutely 
the same certainty, and our argument comes to the 
excellent conclusion that our soul existed before we 
were born, and that the essence of which you speak 
likewise exists. For there is nothing so clear to me 
as this, that all such things, the beautiful, the good, 
and all the others of which you were speaking just 
now, have a most real existence. And I think the 
proof is sufficient.” 

«But how about Gebes?” said Socrates. “For 
Cebes must be convinced, too.” 

“He is fully convinced, I think,” said Simmias ; 
“and yet he is the most obstinately incredulous of 
mortals. Still, I believe he is quite convinced of 
this, that our soul existed before we were born. 
However, that it will still exist after we die does not 
seem even to me to have been proved, Socrates, but 
the common fear, which Cebes mentioned just now, 
that when a man dies the soul is dispersed and this 
is the end of his existence, still remains. For assum- 
ing that the soul comes into being and is brought 
together from some source or other and exists before 
it enters into a human body, what prevents it, after 
it has entered into and left that body, from coming to 
an end and being destroyed itself?”’ 

« You are right, Simmias,” said Cebes. “It seems 
to me that we have proved only half of what is 
required, namely, that our soul existed before our 
birth. But we must also show that it exists after 
we are dead as well as before our birth, if the proof 
is to be perfect.” 

“Tt has been shown, Simmias and Cebes, already,’ 
said Socrates, “if you will combine this conclusion 


269 


78 


PLATO 


καὶ νῦν, εἰ θέλετε συνθεῖναι τοῦτόν τε τὸν 
λόγον εἰς ταὐτὸν καὶ ὃν πρὸ τούτου ὡμολογή- 
σαμεν, τὸ γίγνεσθαι πᾶν τὸ ζῶν ἐκ τοῦ τεθνεῶτος. 
εἰ γὰρ ἔστιν μὲν ἡ ψυχὴ καὶ πρότερον, ἀνάγκη 
δὲ αὐτῇ εἰς τὸ ζῆν. ἰούσῃ τε καὶ γιγνομένῃ 
μηδαμόθεν ἄλλοθεν ἢ ἢ ἐκ θανάτου καὶ τοῦ τεθνάναι 
γίγνεσθαι, πῶς οὐκ ἀνάγκη αὐτήν, καὶ ἐπειδὰν 
ἀποθάνῃ εἶναι, ἐπειδή γε δεῖ αὖθις αὐτὴν γίγνε- 
σθαι; ἀποδέδεικται μὲν οὖν ὅπερ λέγετε καὶ νῦν. 

4, “Ὅμως δέ μοι δοκεῖς σύ τε καὶ Σιμμίας 
ἡδέως ἂν καὶ τοῦτον διαπραγματεύσασθαι τὸν 
λόγον ἔτι μᾶλλον, καὶ δεδιέναι τὸ τῶν παίδων, 
μὴ ὡς ἀληθῶς ὁ ἄνεμος αὐτὴν ἐκβαίνουσαν ἐκ 
τοῦ σώματος διαφυσᾷ καὶ διασκεδάννυσιν, ἄλλως 
τε καὶ ὅταν τύχῃ τις μὴ ἐν νηνεμίᾳ, ἀλλ᾽ ἐν 
μεγάλῳ τινὶ πνεύματι ἀποθνήσκων. καὶ ὁ Κέβης 
ἐπιγελάσας: ‘Os δεδιότων, ἔφη, ὦ Σώκρατες, 
πειρῶ ἀναπείθειν: μᾶλλον δὲ μὴ ὡς ἡμῶν δεδιό- 
των, ἀλλ᾽ ἴσως ἔνι τις καὶ ἐν ἡμῖν παῖς, ὅστις 
τὰ τοιαῦτα φοβεῖται" τοῦτον οὖν πειρώμεθα 
πείθειν μὴ δεδιέναι τὸν θάνατον ὥ ὥσπερ τὰ μορμο- 
λύκεια. ᾿Αλλὰ χρή; ἔφη 0 Σωκράτης, ἐπᾷ- 
dev αὐτῷ ἑκάστης ἡμέρας, ἕως ἂν ἐξεπάσητε. 
Πόθεν οὖν, ἔφη, ὦ Σώκρατες, τῶν τοιοῦτων 
ἀγαθὸν ἐπῳδὸν ληψόμεθα, ἐπειδὴ σύ, ἔφη, ἡμᾶς 
ἀπολείπεις; Πολλὴ μὲν ἡ Ἑλλάς, ἔφη, ὦ Κέβης, 
ἐν ἡ ἔνεισί που ἀγαθοὶ ἄνδρες, πολλὰ δὲ καὶ 
τὰ τῶν βαρβάρων γένη, ovs πάντας χρὴ διερευ- 
νᾶσϑαι ζητοῦντας τοιοῦτον ἐπῳδόν, μήτε χρη- 
μάτων φειδομένους μήτε πόνων, ὡς οὐκ ἔστιν εἰς 
ὅ τι ἂν ἀναγκαιότερον ἀναλίσκοιτε χρήματα. 
ζητεῖν δὲ χρὴ καὶ αὐτοὺς μετ’ ἀλλήλων" ἴσως 
270 


PHAEDO 


with the one we reached before, that every living 
being is born from the dead. For if the soul exists 
before birth, and, when it comes into life and is born, 
cannot be born from anything else than death and a 
state of death, must it not also exist after dying, 
since it must be born again? So the proof you call 
for has already been given. However, J think you 
and Simmias would like to carry on this discussion 
still further. You have the childish fear that when 
the soul goes out from’the body the wind will really 
blow it away and scatter it, especially if a man 
happens to die in a high wind and not in calm 
weather.” 

And Cebes laughed and said, “ Assume that we 
have that fear, Socrates, and try to convince us; 
or rather, do not assume that we are afraid, but 
perhaps there is a child within us, who has such 
fears. Let us try to persuade him not to fear death 
as if it were a hobgoblin.” 

« Ah,” said Socrates, “ you must sing charms to 
him every day until you charm away his fear.” 

“Where then, Socrates,” said he, “shall we find 
a good singer of such charms, since you are leaving 
us = 

“ Hellas, Cebes,” he replied, “is a large country, 
in which there are many good men, and there are 
many foreign peoples also. You ought to search 
through all of them in quest of such a charmer, 
sparing neither money nor toil, for there is no 
greater need for which you could spend your money. 
And you must seek among yourselves, too, for 


271 


PLATO 


\ a ἡδὲ e δί e a € nw 
yap av οὐδὲ ῥᾳδίως εὕροιτε μᾶλλον ὑμῶν δυνα- 
/ [ον ~ > \ a \ ΄ ” 
μένους τοῦτο ποιεῖν. ᾿Αλλὰ ταῦτα μὲν δή, ἔφη, 
ὑπάρξει, ὁ Κέβης: ὅθεν δὲ ἀπελίπομεν, ἐπανέλ- 
> 
θωμεν, εἴ σοι ἡδομένῳ ἐστίν. ᾿Αλλὰ μὴν ἡδο- 
/ lal A -“ 
μένῳ γε; πῶς γὰρ οὐ μέλλει; Καλῶς, ἔφη, λέγεις. 
25. Οὐκοῦν τοιόνδε τι, ἦ δ᾽ ὃς ὁ Σωκράτης, 
a a 7 fi A / 
δεῖ ἡμᾶς ἐρέσθαι ἑαυτούς, τῷ ποίῳ τινὶ ἄρα 
a Ν / ’ 
προσήκει τοῦτο τὸ πάθος πάσχειν, τὸ διασκεδάν- 
νυσθαι, καὶ ὑπὲρ τοῦ ποίου τινὸς δεδιέναι μὴ 
πάθῃ αὐτό, καὶ τῷ ποίῳ τινὶ οὔ: καὶ μετὰ τοῦτο 
Φ > / , e , - > 
αὖ ἐπισκέψασθαι, πότερον ἡ ψυχή ἐστιν, καὶ ἐκ 
τούτων θαρρεῖν ἢ δεδιέναι ὑπὲρ τῆς ἡμετέρας 
ψυχῆς; ᾿Αληθῆ, ἔφη, λέγεις. ἾΑρ᾽ οὖν τῷ μὲν 
συντεθέντι τε καὶ συνθέτῳ ὄντι φύσει προσήκει 
τοῦτο πάσχειν, διαιρεθῆναι ταύτῃ ἥπερ συνε- 
,ὔ 2 / , a > 4 4 / 
τέθη" εἰ δέ TL τυγχάνει ὃν ἀξύνθετον, τούτῳ μόνῳ 
προσήκει μὴ πάσχειν ταῦτα, εἴπερ TW ἄλλῳ; 
A εἰ ς 7 a 
Δοκεῖ μοι, ἔφη, οὕτως ἔχειν, ὁ Κέβης. Οὐκοῦν 
\ a 
ἅπερ ἀεὶ κατὰ ταὐτὰ Kal ὡσαύτως ἔχει, ταῦτα 
4 \ / a 
μάλιστα εἰκὸς εἶναι τὰ ἀξύνθετα, ἃ δὲ ἄλλοτ᾽ 
ΕΖ / 3 / A \ 
ἄλλως καὶ μηδέποτε κατὰ ταὐτά, ταῦτα δὲ 
a 7ὔ 5 nm e Μ 
εἶναι τὰ σύνθετα; “Kouye δοκεῖ οὕτως. ἤϊωμεν 
ἴ Υ͂ > > \ 243? σ 2 a ΝΜ 
δή, ἔφη, ἐπὶ ταὐτὰ ἐφ᾽ ἅπερ ἐν τῷ ἔμπροσθεν 
, ok eee > » 2 , ῃ \ 4 
λόγῳ. αὐτὴ ἡ οὐσία ἧς λόγον δίδομεν τὸ εἶναι 
καὶ ἐρωτῶντες καὶ ἀποκρινόμενοι, πότερον ὡσαύ- 
: ee 2 \ 32 Ν a A > ame SyaaN 
τως ἀεὶ EXEL KATA ταὐτὰ ἢ ἄλλοτ AAXAWS; AUTO 
Ν » > \ Ν f 4 δον 6 ” 
TO ἰσον, AUTO TO καλον, AUTO ἕκαστον 6 ἐστιν, 
\ A 
TO ὄν, μή ποτε μεταβολὴν Kal ἡντινοῦν ἐνδέχεται; 


a» » A “ ὰ »ν Se A SEN 
ωμ) ἀεὶ αὐυτῶν EKACTOV O εστι, MOVOEL ες OV auTO 


272 


PHLAEDO 


perhaps you would hardly find others better able 
to do this than you.” 

“That,” said Cebes, “shall be done. But let us 
return to the point where we left off, if you are 
willing.” 

«Oh, I am willing, of course.” 

“Good,” said he. 

“Well then,” said Socrates, “must we not ask 
ourselves some such question as this? What kind of 
thing naturally suffers,dispersion, and for what kind 
of thing might we naturally fear it, and again 
what kind of thing is not liable to it? And after 
this must we not inquire to which class the soul 
belongs and base our hopes or fears for our souls upon 
the answers to these questions ὃ ὁ 

“ You are quite right,” he replied. 

“ Now is not that which is compounded and com- 
posite naturally liable to be decomposed, in the same 
way in which it was compounded? And if anything is 
uncompounded is not that, if anything, naturally 
unlikely to be decomposed ?”’ 

«1 think,” said Cebes, “that is true.” 

“Then it is most probable that things which are 
always the same and unchanging are the uncom- 
pounded things and the things that are changing and 
never the same are the composite things?” 

“Yes, I think so.” 

“Let us then,” said he, “turn to what we were 
discussing before. Is the absolute essence, which we 
in our dialectic process of question and answer call 
true being, always the same or is it liable to change? 
Absolute equality, absolute beauty, any absolute 
existence, true being—do they ever admit of any 
change whatsoever? Or does each absolute essence, 


273 


» 


PLATO 


᾽ e (2 . ΄ \ ; Xv. \ ’ ld 
καθ᾽ αὑτό, ὡσαύτως κατὰ ταὐτὰ ἔχει καὶ οὐδέποτε 
> “ > “ > ΄ > v4 > J 
οὐδαμῇ οὐδαμῶς ἀλλοίωσιν οὐδεμίαν ἐνδέχεται; 
€ V2 «- 
Ὡσαύτως, ἔφη, ἀνάγκη, ὁ Κέβης, κατὰ ταὐτὰ 
, ἴω a 
ἔχειν, ὦ Σώκρατες. Τί δὲ τῶν πολλῶν, οἷον 
> , aA ae / A Υ e tal 
ἀνθρώπων ἢ ἵππων ἢ ἱματίων ἢ ἄλλων ὡντινωνοῦν 
τοιούτων, ἡ ἴσων ἢ καλῶν ἢ πάντων τῶν ἐκείνοις 
\ A cal 
ὁμωνύμων; apa κατὰ ταὐτὰ ἔχει, ἢ πᾶν Tovv- 
if 3 ’, » > \ « a ” > 72 
AVTLOV ἐκείνοις οὔτε αὑτὰ αὑτοῖς οὔτε ἀλλὴλοις 
» , e Μ ? a WY) [οἱ \ > / 
οὐδέποτε, ὡς ἔπος εἰπεῖν, οὐδαμῶς κατὰ ταὐτά; 
Οὕτως, ἔφη ὁ Κέβης: οὐδέποτε ὡσαύτως ἔχει. 
Οὐκοῦν τούτων μὲν Kav ἅψαιο κἂν ἴδοις κἂν 
A A 3 ’ Μ A \ \ 
ταῖς ἄλλαις αἰσθήσεσιν αἴσθοιο, τῶν δὲ κατὰ 
eR γν,.3.:ἕ δ ’ ” ¢ 7 A γ 
ταὐτὰ ἐχόντων οὐκ ἔστιν ὅτῳ TOT ἂν ἄλλῳ 
ἐπιλάβοιο ἢ τῷ τῆς διανοίας λογισμῷ, ἀλλ᾽ 
n a e 
ἐστὶν ἀειδῆ Ta τοιαῦτα Kal οὐχ ὁρατά; 11αν»- 
na , 
τάπασιν, ἔφη, ἀληθῆ λέγεις. 
26. Θῶμεν οὖν βούλει, ἔφη, δύο εἴδη τῶν ὄντων, 
/ A 3 ἐς wn f 
τὸ μὲν ὁρατόν, To δὲ ἀειδές; Θῶμεν, ἔφη. Kat 
Ν \ > \ ew \ > Ny ae \ iN e Ἁ 
τὸ μὲν ἀειδὲς ἀεὶ κατὰ ταὐτὰ ἔχον, τὸ δὲ ὁρατὸν 
/ \ > / \ “Ὁ A aA 
μηδέποτε κατὰ ταὐτά; Kat τοῦτο, ἔφη, θῶμεν. 
Φέρε δή, ἢ δ᾽ ὅς, ἄλλο τε ἡμῶν αὐτῶν τὸ μὲν 
ra) MS f > \ » 
σῶμά ἐστι, τὸ δὲ ψυχή; Οὐδὲν ἄλλο, ἔφη. 
, @ « , n » A A 9 
Tlotépw οὖν ὁμοιότερον τῷ εἴδει φαῖμεν ἂν εἶναι 
/ \ - : / ” a ΄ 
καὶ ξυγγενέστερον τὸ σῶμα; Ι]αντί, ἔφη, τοῦτό 
n ef ~ e a ἢ" δὲ «ς / et Ν 
γε δῆλον, ὅτι τῷ ὁρατῷ. Τί δὲ ἡ ψυχή; ὁρατὸν 
’ 4 ,ὔ 
ἢ ἀειδές; Οὐχ ὑπ᾽ ἀνθρώπων γε, ὦ Σώκρατες, 


274 


PHAEDO 


since it is uniform and exists by itself, remain the 
same and never in any way admit of any change?” 

“It must,” said Cebes, “necessarily remain the 
same, Socrates.” 

“But how about the many things, for example, 
men, or horses, or cloaks, or any other such things, 
which bear the same names as the absolute essences 
and are called beautiful or equal or the like? Are 
they always the same? Or are they, in direct opposi- 
tion to the essences, constantly changing in them- 
selves, unlike each other, and, so to speak, never the 
same?” 

“The latter,’ said Cebes; “theyare never the same.” 

« And, you can see these and touch them and 
perceive them by the other senses, whereas the 
things which are always the same can be grasped 
only by the reason, and are invisible and not to be 
seen?” 

“Certainly,” said he, “that is true.” 

“Now,” said he, “shall we assume two kinds of 
existences, one visible, the other invisible ?”’ 

« Let us assume them,” said Cebes. 

“ And that the invisible is always the same and 
the visible constantly changing?” 

“ Let us assume that also,” said he, 

“ Well then,” said Socrates, “ are we not made up 
of two parts, body and soul?” 

“Wes, he replied: 

“ Now to which class should we say the body is 
more similar and niore ciosely akin δ᾽ 

“To the visible,” said he; “that is clear to 
everyone.” 

« And the soul? [5 it visible or invisible ?”’ 

“ Invisible, to man, at least, Socrates.”’ 


275 


PLATO 


ἔφη. ᾿Αλλὰ ἡμεῖς ye TA ὁρατὰ Kal τὰ μὴ TH 
τῶν ἀνθρώπων φύσει λέγομεν: ἢ ἄλλῃ τινὶ οἴει; 
Τῇ τῶν ἀνθρώπων. Τί οὖν περὶ ψυχῆς λέγομεν; 
e \ a >? 9 ᾽ “ / > \ 
ὁρατὸν ἢ ἀόρατον εἶναι; Οὐχ ὁρατόν. ᾿Αειδὲς 
v » τ ς ͵ » 4 ΄ gets 
apa; Nat. Opototepov apa ψυχὴ σώματός ἐστιν 

A 5 »" Ν \ n « a A 7 / τ 
τῷ ἀειδεῖ, τὸ δὲ τῷ ὁρατῷ: Πᾶσα ἀνάγκη, ὦ 
Σώκρατες. 


« 


21. Οὐκοῦν καὶ τόδε πάλαι λέγομεν, ὅτι ἡ 
ψυχή, ὅταν μὲν τῷ σώματι προσχρῆται εἰς τὸ 
[4] A A (ote As An Δ \ a“ 3 4 a ’ 
σκοπεῖν τι ἢ διὰ τοῦ ὁρᾶν ἢ διὰ τοῦ ἀκούειν ἢ δι 
37. Α ᾽ i? Lal ‘A 3 = Ἁ xi 
ἄλλης τινὸς aicOjncews—TovTO γάρ ἐστιν τὸ διὰ 
τοῦ σώματος, τὸ δι’ αἰσθήσεων σκοπεῖν τι---, 
τότε μὲν ἕλκεται ὑπὸ τοῦ σώματος εἰς τὰ οὐδέποτε 
κατὰ ταὐτὰ ἔχοντα, καὶ αὐτὴ πλανᾶται καὶ 
A σ 
ταράττεται καὶ ἰλιγγιᾷ ὥσπερ μεθύουσα, ἅτε 
’7, 
τοιούτων ἐφαπτομένη; Πάνν γε. “Ὅταν δέ γε 
Ν Ἁ A a 
αὐτὴ καθ᾽ αὑτὴν σκοπῇ, ἐκεῖσε οἴχεται εἰς TO 
, ΝΣ ΝᾺ \ ’ ,͵ Ν he. ΄,φ 
καθαρὸν τε καὶ ἀεὶ ὃν καὶ ἀθάνατον καὶ ὡσαύτως 
φ A / 
ἔχον, καὶ ὡς συγγενὴς οὖσα αὐτοῦ ἀεὶ μετ᾽ ἐκείνου 
“ \ ᾽ 
τε γίγνεται, ὅτανπερ αὐτὴ καθ᾽ αὑτὴν γένηται 
A A i a 
καὶ ἐξῇ αὐτῇ, καὶ πέπαυταί τε τοῦ πλάνου καὶ 
περὶ ἐκεῖνα ἀεὶ κατὰ ταὐτὰ ὡσαύτως ἔχει, ἅτε 
A nr Ν 
τοιούτων ἐφαπτομένη" καὶ τοῦτο αὐτῆς τὸ πάθημα 
, ,; , wv A 
φρόνησις κέκληται; Παντάπασιν, ἔφη, καλῶς 
a 9 ς᾽ 

καὶ ἀληθῆ λέγεις, ὦ Σώκρατες. ΙΠοτέρῳ οὖν αὖ 
σοι δοκεῖ τῷ εἴδεε καὶ ἐκ τῶν ἔμπροσθεν καὶ ἐκ 


276 


PHAEDO 


“But we call things visible and invisible with 
reference to human vision, do we not?” 

* Yes, we do.” 

«Then what do we say about the soul? Can it be 
seen or not?” 

“Tt cannot be seen.” 

“Then it is invisible?” 

6 Ves: | 

«Then the soul is more like the invisible than the 
body is, and the body more like the visible.” 

“«“ Necessarily, Socrates.” 

“Now we have also been saying for a long time, 
have we not, that, when the sou! makes use of the 
body for any inquiry, either through seeing or hear- 
ing or any of the other senses——for inquiry through 
the body means inquiry’ through the senses,—then 
it is dragged by the body to things which never 
remain the same, and it wanders about and is con- 
fused and dizzy like a drunken man because it lays 
hold upon such things?” 

Certainly.” 

“But when the soul inquires alone by itself, 
it departs into the realm of the pure, the everlasting, 
the immortal and the changeless, and being akin to 
these it dwells always with them whenever it is by 
itself and is not hindered, and it has rest from 
its wanderings and remains always the same and 
unchanging with the changeless, since it is in com- 
munion therewith. And this state of the soul is 
called wisdom. Is it not so?” 

‘Socrates,’ said he, “ what you say is perfectly 
right and true.” 

“And now again, in view of what we said 
before and of what has just been said, to which 


277 


Ε 


80 


PLATO 


a - / \ Ls 
τῶν νῦν λεγομένων Ψυχὴ ὑμοιότερον εἶναι καὶ 
/ n a 
ξυγγενέστερον; las ἄν μοι δοκεῖ, ἢ δ᾽ ὅς, συγς- 
fo! 9 , > fa A 
χωρῆσαι, ὦ Σώκρατες, ἐκ ταύτης τῆς μεθόδου, 
«ς e 
καὶ ὁ δυσμαθέστατος, ὅτι ὅλῳ Kal παντὶ ὁμοιό- 
, > \ ὍΣΗΝ e 4 v a 
τερὸν ἐστι ψυχὴ τῷ ἀεὶ ὡσαύτως ἔχοντι μᾶλλον 
λ a , 7 \ \ A ». ty 
ἢ τῷ μή. Τί δὲ τὸ σῶμα; Τῷ ἑτέρῳ. 
"ἤ A an an 
28. “Opa δὴ καὶ τῇδε, ὅτι, ἐπειδὰν ἐν τῷ 
> a 4 A \ la) a Ν ὃ Ἃ / \ 
αὑτῷ WoL ψυχὴ καὶ σῶμα, TO μὲν δουλεύειν καὶ 
Μ Ld a 
ἄρχεσθαι ἡ φύσις προστάττει, τῇ δὲ ἄρχειν καὶ 
δεσπόζειν: καὶ κατὰ ταῦτα αὖ πότερόν σοι δοκεῖ 
ὅμοιον τῷ θείῳ εἶναι καὶ πότερον τῷ θνητῷ; ἢ οὐ 
δοκεῖ σοι τὸ μὲν θεῖον οἷον ἄρχειν τε καὶ ἡγεμο- 
UA / Ἁ Ν \ ” ΄ \ 
νεύειν πεφυκέναι, TO δὲ θνητὸν ἄρχεσθαί TE Kai 
δουλεύειν; "ἔμοιγε. ἸΠοτέρῳ οὗν ἡ ψυχὴ ἔοικεν; 
et Pe ἢ x” ; 
a / ’ “ \ A 7 
Δῆλα δή, ὦ Σώκρατες, ὅτι ἡ μὲν ψυχὴ τῷ θείῳ, 
6 δὲ σῶμα τῷ θνητῷς Σκόπει δή, ἔφη, ὦ 
TO O€ σὼμ ‘ UNTO. ”» 2» 
A >? / 4 a 
Κέβης, εἰ ἐκ πάντων τῶν εἰρημένων τάδε ἡμῖν 
Ἷ , \ 7 r 
ξυμβαίνει, τῷ μὲν θείῳ καὶ ἀθανάτῳ Kal νοητῷ 
a ’ 
καὶ μονοειδεῖ καὶ ἀδιαλύτῳ καὶ ἀεὶ ὡσαύτως 
nr € f s 
κατὰ ταὐτὰ ἔχοντι ἑαυτῷ ὁμοιότατον εἶναι ψυ- 
χήν, τῷ δὲ ἀνθρωπίνῳ καὶ θνητῷ καὶ πολυειδεῖ 
A f \ 3 \ 
καὶ ἀνοήτῳ καὶ διαλυτῷ καὶ μηδέποτε κατὰ ταὐτὰ 
n a 7 / 
ἔχοντι ἑαυτῷ ὁμοιότατον αὖ εἶναι σῶμα. ἔχομέν 
r / 5 f- / Φ > 
τι παρὰ ταῦτα ἄλλο λέγειν, ὦ φίλε Κέβης, 7 οὐχ 
οὕτως ἔχει; Οὐκ ἔχομεν. 
jp tha ΄ “ 2 ἢ e » EN 
29. Ti οὖν; τούτων οὕτως ἐχόντων ap οὐχὶ 
, \ \ ὃ λύ θΘ / Ae δὲ 
σώματι μὲν ταχὺ διαλύεσθαι προσήκει, ψυχῇ δὲ 
/ “ a >) if / 
αὖ τὸ παράπαν ἀδιαλύτῳ εἶναι ἢ ἐγγύς τι τού- 


278 


PHAEDO 


class do you think the soul has greater likeness 
and kinship ?”’ 

(41 think, Socrates,” said he, “that anyone, even 
the dullest, would agree, after this argument that 
the soul is infinitely more like that which is always 
the same than that which is not.” 

«« And the body ?”’ 

“415 more like the other.” 

“Consider, then,’ the matter in another way. 
When the soul and the body are joined together, 
nature directs the one to serve and be ruled, and the 
other to rule and be master. Now this being the 
case, which seems to you like the divine, and which 
like the mortal? Or do you not think that the 
divine is by nature fitted to rule and lead, and the 
mortal to obey and serve?” 

‘© Yes, I think so.” 

« Which, then, does the soul resemble ?”’ 

“Clearly, Socrates, the soul is like the divine and 
the body like the mortal.” 

“Then see, Cebes, if this is not the conclusion 
from all that we have said, that the soul is most 
like the divine and immortal and intellectual and 
uniform and indissoluble and ever unchanging, 
and the body, on the contrary, most like the human 
and mortal and multiform and unintellectual and 
dissoluble and ever changing. Can we say anything, 
my dear Cebes, to show that this is not so?” 

“No, we cannot.” 

“‘ Well then, since this is the case, is it not natural 
for the body to meet with speedy dissolution and for 
the soul, on the contrary, to be entirely indissoluble, 
or nearly so?” 


279 


PLATO 


Ν +] “ σ΄ A 
C του; Πῶς yap οὔ; ‘Evvoeis οὖν, ἔφη, ὅτι, ἐπειδὰν 


81 


ἀποθάνῃ ὁ ἄνθρωπος, τὸ μὲν ὁρατὸν αὐτοῦ, τὸ 
σῶμα, καὶ ἐν ὁρατῷ κείμενον, ὃ δὴ νεκρὸν καλοῦ- 
μεν, ᾧ προσήκει διαλύεσθαι καὶ διαπίπτειν, οὐκ 
εὐθὺς τούτων οὐδὲν πέπονθεν, ἀλλ᾽ ἐπιεικῶς 
συχνὸν ἐπιμένει χρόνον, ἐὰν μέν τις καὶ χα ιέντως 
ἔχων τὸ σῶμα τελευτήσῃ καὶ ἐν τοιαύτῃ ὥρᾳ, καὶ 
πάνυ μάλα. συμπεσὸν γὰρ τὸ σῶμα καὶ ταρι- 
χευθέν, ὥσπερ οἱ ἐν Αἰγύπτῳ ταριχευθέντες, 
ὀλίγου ὅλον μένει ἀμήχανον ὅσον χρόνον." ἔνια 
δὲ μέρη τοῦ σώματος, καὶ ἂν σαπῇ, ὀστᾶ τε καὶ 
νεῦρα καὶ τὰ τοιαῦτα πάντα, ὅμως ὡς ἔπος εἰπεῖν 
ἀθάνατά ἐ ἐστιν" ἢ οὔ; Ναί. Η δὲ ψυχὴ ἄρα, τὸ 
ἀειδές, τὸ εἰς τοιοῦτον τόπον ἕτερον ᾿οἰχόμενον 
γεννναῖον καὶ καθαρὸν καὶ ἀειδῆ, εἰς “Αεδου ὡς 
ἀληθῶς, παρὰ τὸν ἀγαθὸν καὶ φρόνιμον θεόν, ol, 
ἂν θεὸς ἐθέλῃ, αὐτίκα καὶ τῇ ἐμῇ ψυχῇ ἰτέον, 
αὕτη δὲ δὴ ἡμῖν ἡ τοιαύτη καὶ οὕτω πεφυκυῖα 
ἀπαλλαττομένη τοῦ σώματος εὐθὺς διαπεφύσηται 
καὶ ἀπόλωλεν, ὥς φασιν οἱ πολλοὶ ἄνθρωποι; 
πολλοῦ γε δεῖ, ὦ φίλε Κέβης τε καὶ Σιμμία, 
ἀλλὰ πολλῷ μᾶλλον bd ἔχει: ἐὰν μὲν καθαρὰ 
ἀπαλλάττηται, μηδὲν τοῦ σώματος ξυνεφέλκουσα, 
ἅτε οὐδὲν κοινωνοῦσα αὐτῷ ἐν τῷ βίῳ ἑκοῦσα 
εἶναι, ἀλλὰ φεύγουσα αὐτὸ καὶ συνηθροισμένη Σ 
αὐτὴ εἰς ἑαυτήν, ἅτε μελετῶσα ἀεὶ τοῦτο---τοῦτο 
δὲ οὐδὲν ἄλλο ἐστὶν ἢ ὀρθῶς φιλοσοφοῦσα καὶ τῷ 
ὄντι τεθνάναι μελετῶσαδ ἢ οὐ τοῦτ᾽ ἂν εἴη 


1 Schanz brackets συμπεσὸν... χρόνον. 

3 συνηθροισμένη αὐτὴ eis ἑαυτήν T Stobaeus. Schanz brackets 
καὶ συνηθροισμένη. Band Schanz omit αὐτὴ εἰς ἑαυτήν. 

2 The MSS. read μελετῶσα ῥᾳδίως. Schanz brackets ῥᾳδίως. 


280 


PHAEDO 


“Of course.” 

“ Observe,” he went on, “that when a man dies, 
the visible part of him, the body, which lies in the 
visible world and which we call the corpse, which is 
naturally subject to dissolution and decomposition, 
does not undergo these processes at once, but 
remains for a considerable time, and even for a very 
long time, if death takes place when the body is in 
good condition, and at a favourable time of the year. 
For when the body is shrunk and embalmed, as is 
done in Egypt, it remains almost entire for an 
incalculable time. And even if the body decay, 
some parts of it, such as the bones and sinews and 
all that, are,so to speak, indestructible. Is not that 
true?” 

SV esx: 

‘But the soul, the invisible, which departs into 
another place which is, like itself, noble and pure 
and invisible, to the realm of the god of the other 
world in truth, to the good and wise god, whither, if 
God will, my soul is soon to go,—is this soul, which 
has such qualities and such a nature, straightway 
scattered and destroyed when it departs from the 
body, as most men say? Far from it, dear Cebes 
and Simmias, but the truth is much rather this :—if 
it departs pure, dragging with it nothing of the 
body, because it never willingly associated with the 
body in life, but avoided it and gathered itself into 
itself alone, since this has always been its constant 
study—but this means nothing else than that it 
pursued philosophy rightly and really practised being 
in a state of death: or is not this the practice of 
death?” 


281 


PLATO 


μελέτη θανάτου; Παντάπασί ye. Οὐκοῦν οὕτω 
μὲν ἔχουσα εἰς τὸ ὅμοιον αὐτῇ τὸ ἀειδὲς ἀπέρχεται, 
τὸ θεῖόν τε καὶ ἀθάνατον καὶ φρόνιμον, οἵ ἀφικο- 
μένῃ ὑπάρχει αὐτῇ εὐδαίμονι εἶναι, πλάνης καὶ 
ἀνοίας καὶ φόβων καὶ ἀγρίων ἐρώτων καὶ τῶν 
ἄλλων κακῶν τῶν ἀνθρωπείων ἀπηλλαγμένῃ, 
ὥσπερ δὲ λέγεται κατὰ τῶν μεμυημένων, ὡς ἀλη- 
θῶς τὸν λοιπὸν χρόνον μετὰ τῶν θεῶν διάγουσα; 
οὕτω φῶμεν, ὧ Κέβης, ἢ ἄλλως; 

80. Οὕτω vn Aia, ἔφη ὁ Κέβης. Ἐὰν δέ γε, 
οἶμαι, μεμιασμένη καὶ ἀκάθαρτος τοῦ σώματος 
ἀπαλλάττηται, ἅτε τῷ σώματι ἀεὶ ξυνοῦσα καὶ 
τοῦτο θεραπεύουσα καὶ ἐρῶσα καὶ γεγοητευμένη 
ὑπ᾽ αὐτοῦ ὑπὸ τε τῶν ἐπιθυμιῶν καὶ ἡδονῶν, 
ὥστε μηδὲν ἄλλο δοκεῖν εἶναι ἀληθὲς ἀλλ᾽ ἢ τὸ 
σωματοειδές, οὗ τις ἂν ἅψαιτο καὶ ἴδοι καὶ πίοι 
καὶ φάγοι καὶ πρὸς τὰ ἀφροδίσια χρήσαιτο, τὸ δὲ 
τοῖς ὄμμασι -σκοτῶδες καὶ ἀειδές, νοητὸν δὲ καὶ 
φιλοσοφίᾳ αἱρετόν, τοῦτο δὲ εἰθισμένη μισεῖν τε 
καὶ τρέμειν καὶ φεύγειν, οὕτω δὴ ἔχουσαν οἴει 
ψυχὴν αὐτὴν καθ᾽ αὑτὴν εἰλικρινῆ ἀπαλλά- 
ἕεσθαι; Οὐδ᾽ ὁπωστιοῦν, ἔφη. ᾿Αλλὰ καὶ διει- 
λημμένην γε, οἶμαι, ὑπὸ τοῦ σωματοειδοῦς, ὃ 
αὐτῇ ἡ ὁμιλία τε καὶ συνουσία τοῦ σώματος διὰ 
τὸ ἀεὶ ξυνεῖναι καὶ διὰ τὴν πολλὴν μελέτην 
ἐνεποίησε ξύμφυτον; Πάνυ γε: ᾿Εμβριθὲς δέ 
γε, ὦ φίλε, τοῦτο οἴεσθαι χρὴ εἶναι καὶ βαρὺ καὶ 
γεῶδες καὶ ,ὁρατόν' ὃ δὴ καὶ ἔχουσα ἡ τοιαύτη 
υχὴ βαρύνεταί τε καὶ ἕλκεται πάλιν. εἰς τὸν 
ὁρατὸν τόπον, φόβῳ τοῦ ἀειδοῦς τε καὶ “Αἰδου, 
ὥσπερ λέγεται, περὶ τὰ μνήματά τε καὶ τοὺς 
τάφους κυλινδουμένη, περὶ ἃ δὴ καὶ ὠφθη ἄττα 


282 


PHAEDO 


« By all means.” 

“Then if it is in such a condition, it goes away into 
that which is like itself, into the invisible, divine, 
immortal, and wise, and when it arrives there it is 
happy, freed from error and folly and fear and fierce 
loves and all the other human ills, and as the 
initiated say, lives in: truth through all after time 
with the gods. [5 this our belief, Cebes, or not?” 

“ Assuredly,” said Cebes. 

« But, I think, if when it departs from the body it is 
defiled and impure, because it was always with the body 
and cared for it and loved it and was fascinated by it 
and its desires and pleasures, so that it thought 
nothing was true except the corporeal, which one 
can touch and see and drink and eat and employ in 
the pleasures of love, and if it is accustomed to hate 
and fear and avoid that which is shadowy and invis- 
ible to the eyes but is intelligible and tangible to 
philosophy—do you think a soul in this condition will 
depart pure and uncontaminated?” 

«By no means,’ said he. 

«But it will be interpenetrated, I suppose, with the 
corporeal which intercourse and communion with the 
body have made a part of its nature because the body 
has been its constant companion and the object of 
its care?” 

“ Certainly.” 

«And, my friend, we must believe that the cor- 
poreal is burdensome and heavy and earthly and 
visible. And such a soul is weighed down by this 
and is dragged back into the visible world, through 
fear of the invisible and of the other world, and so, 
as they say, it flits about the monuments and the 
tombs, where shadowy shapes of souls have been 


283 


PLATO 


ψυχῶν σκιοειδὴ φαντάσματα, ola παρέχονται ai 
τοιαῦται ψυχαὶ εἴδωλα, αἱ μὴ καθαρῶς ἀπολυ- 
θεῖσαι, ἀλλὰ τοῦ ὁρατοῦ μετέχουσαι, διὸ καὶ 
« na > ’ 4 ’ ΡΥ wh / 
ὁρῶνται. Kinds ye, ὦ Σώκρατες. Εἰκὸς μέντοι, 
φ ΄ x ΝΜ , \ a > a 4 
ὦ Κέβης" καὶ οὔ τί ye τὰς τῶν ἀγαθῶν ταύτας 
εἶναι, ἀλλὰ τὰς τῶν φαύλων, αἱ περὶ τὰ τοιαῦτα 
ἀναγκάζονται πλανᾶσθαι δίκην τίνουσαι τῆς προ- 
τέρας τροφῆς κακῆς οὔσης" καὶ μέχρι γε τούτου 
πλανῶνται, ἕως ἂν τῇ τοῦ ξυνεπακολουθοῦντος 
τοῦ σωματοειδοῦς ἐπιθυμίᾳ ἐνδεθῶσιν εἰς σῶμα. 
3 - , σ΄ 3 f 23 “Ὁ Μ 
Ενδοῦνται δέ, ὥσπερ εἰκός, εἰς τοιαῦτα ἤθη 
ὁποῖ᾽ ἄττ᾽ ἂν καὶ μεμελετηκυῖαι τύχωσιν ἐν τῷ 
βίῳ. 

Τὰ ποῖα δὴ ταῦτα λέγεις, ὦ Σώκρατες; Οἷον 
τοὺς μὲν γαστριμαργίας τε καὶ ὕβρεις καὶ 
φιλοποσίας μεμελετηκότας καὶ μὴ διευλαβημένους, 
εἰς τὰ τῶν ὄνων γένη καὶ τῶν τοιούτων θηρίων 
4 ἊΝ Σ , a > » ΄ \ Φ aN 
εἰκὸς ἐνδύεσθαι. ἢ οὐκ οἴει; ΠΙάνν μὲν οὖν εἰκὸς 

/ \ [4 ᾽ / , 
λέγεις. Τοὺς δέ γε ἀδικίας τε καὶ τυραννίδας 
καὶ ἁρπαγὰς προτετιμηκότας εἰς τὰ τῶν λύκων 
τε καὶ ἱεράκων καὶ ἰκτίνων γένη; ἢ ποῖ ἂν ἄλλοσέ 
φαμεν τὰς τοιαύτας ἰέναι; ‘A μέλει, ἔφη ὁ Κέβης, 
εἰς τὰ τοιαῦτα. Οὐκοῦν, 1 δ᾽ ὅς, δῆλα δὴ καὶ 
τἄλλα, ἡ ἂν ἕκαστα ἴοι, κατὰ τὰς αὐτῶν ὁμοιό- 
τητας τῆς μελέτης; Δῆλον δή, ἔφη" πῶς δ᾽ οὔ; 
Οὐκοῦν εὐδαιμονέστατοι, ἔφη, καὶ τούτων εἰσὶ 

,ὔ 
καὶ εἰς βέλτιστον τόπον ἰόντες οἱ τὴν δημοτικὴν 
καὶ πολιτικὴν ἀρετὴν ἐπιτετηδευκότες, ἣν δὴ 
καλοῦσι σωφροσύνην τε καὶ δικαιοσύνην, ἐξ ἔθους 
τε καὶ μελέτης γεγονυῖαν ἄνευ φιλοσοφίας τε καὶ 


284 


PHAEDO 


seen, figures of those souls which were not set free 
in purity but retain something of the visible; and 
this is why they are seen.” 

“ That is likely, Socrates.” 

“It is likely, Cebes. And it is likely that those 
are not the souls of the good, but those of the base, 
which are compelled to tiit about such places as a 
punishment for their former evil mode of life. And 
they flit about until through the desire of the cor- 
poreal which clings to them they are again im- 
prisoned in a body. And they are likely to be 
imprisoned in natures which correspond to the 
practices of their former life.”’ 

« What natures do you mean, Socrates?” 

“J mean, for example, that those who have 
indulged in gluttony and violence and drunkenness, 
and have taken no pains to avoid them, are likely 
to pass into the bodies of asses and other beasts of 
that sort. Do you not think so?” 

“ Certainly that is very likely.” 

“And those who have chosen injustice and 
tyranny and robbery pass into the bodies of wolves 
and hawks and kites. Where else can we imagine 
that they go?” 

“Beyond a doubt,” said Cebes, “they pass into 
such creatures.’ 

“ Then,” said he, “it is clear where all the others 
go, each in accordance with its own habits?” 

“Yes,” said Cebes, “ of course.” 

“Then,” said he, “the happiest of those, and 
those who go to the best place, are those who have 
practised, by nature and habit, without philosophy 
or reason, the social and civil virtues which are 
called moderation and justice ?” 


285 


PLATO 


νοῦ; Πῇ δὴ οὗτοι εὐδαιμονέστατοι; “Ore τούτους 
εἰκός ἐστιν εἰς τοιοῦτον πάλιν ἀφικνεῖσθαι πολι- 
τικόν τε καὶ ἥμερον γένος, ἤ που μελιττῶν ἢ 
σφηκῶν ἢ μυρμήκων, ἢ καὶ εἰς ταὐτόν γε πάλιν 
τὸ ἀνθρώπινον γένος, καὶ γίγνεσθαι ἐξ αὐτῶν 
ἄνδρας μετρίους" Εἰκός. 

= Eis δέ ye θεῶν γένος μὴ φιλοσοφήσαντι 
καὶ παντελῶς καθαρῷ ἀπιόντι οὐ θέμις ἀφι- 
κνεῖσθαι ἀλλ᾽ ἢ τῷ φιλομαθεῖ. ἀλλὰ τούτων 
ἕνεκα, ὦ ἑταῖρε Σιμμία τε καὶ Κέβης, οἱ ὀρθῶς 
φιλοσοφοῦντες ἀπέχονται τῶν κατὰ τὸ σῶμα 
ἐπιθυμιῶν ἁπασῶν καὶ καρτεροῦσι καὶ οὐ 
παραδιδόασιν αὐταῖς ἑαυτούς, οὔ τι οἰκοφθορίαν 
τε καὶ πενίαν φοβούμενοι, ὥσπερ οἱ πολλοὶ καὶ 
φιλοχρήματοι: οὐδὲ αὖ ἀτιμίαν τε καὶ ἀδοξίαν 
μοχθηρίας δεδιότες, ὥσπερ οἱ φίλαρχοί τε καὶ 
φιλότιμοι, ἔπειτα ἀπέχονται, αὐτῶν. Οὐ γὰρ ἂν 
πρέποι, ἔφη, ὦ Σώκρατες, ὁ Κέβης. Οὐ μέντοι 
μὰ Δία, ἡ δ᾽ ὅς. Τοιγάρτοι τούτοις μὲν ἅπασιν, 
ὦ Κέβης, ἐκεῖνοι, οἷς τι μέλει τῆς ἑαυτῶν ψυχῆς, 
ἀλλὰ μὴ σώματι λατρεύοντες" ζῶσι, χαίρειν 
εἰπόντες οὐ κατὰ ταὐτὰ πορεύονται αὐτοῖς, ὡς 
οὐκ εἰδόσιν ὅπῃ ἔρχονται, αὐτοὶ δὲ ἡγούμενοι, οὐ 
δεῖν ἐναντία τῇ φιλοσοφίᾳ π ἄττειν καὶ τῇ ἐκείνης 
λύσει τε καὶ καθαρμῷ ταύτῃ τρέπονται ἐκείνῃ 
ἑπόμενοι, ἣ ἐκείνη ὑφηγεῖται. 

33. Πῶς, ὦ Σώκρατες; ᾿Εγὼ ἐρῶ, ἔφη. γιγνώ- 
σκουσι yap, ἦ δ᾽ ὅς, οἱ φιλομαθεῖς ὅτι παρα- 
λαβοῦσα αὐτῶν τὴν ψυχὴν ἡ φιλοσοφία ἀτεχνῶς 


1 λατρεύοντες 18 an emendation proposed by Schanz for 
πλάττοντες Of the MSS, 


286 


PHAEDO 


« How are these happiest? ”’ 

“Don’t you see? Is it not likely that they pass 
again into some such social and gentle species as that 
of bees or of wasps or ants, or into the human race 
again, and that worthy men spring from them?” 

eo Mies) 

«“ And no one who has not been a philosopher and 
who is not wholly pure when he departs, is allowed 
to enter into the communion of the gods, but only 
the lover of knowledge. It is for this reason, dear 
Simmias and Cebes, that those who truly love 
wisdom refrain from all bodily desires and resist 
them firmly and do not give themselves up to them, 
not because they fear poverty or loss of property, as 
most men, in their love of money, do; nor is it 
because they fear the dishonour or disgrace of 
wickedness, like the lovers of honour and power, 
that they refrain from them.” 

“No, that would not be seemly for them, Socrates, ’ 
said Cebes. 

“ Most assuredly not,” said he. “ And therefore 
those who care for their own souls, and do not live 
in service to the body, turn their backs upon all 
these men and do not walk in their ways, for they 
feel that they know not whither they are going. 
They themselves believe that philosophy, with its 
deliverance and purification, must not be resisted, 
and so they turn and follow it whithersoever it 
leads.” 

“ How do they do this, Socrates ?”’ 

«JT will tell you,” he replied. “The lovers of 
knowledge,’ said he, “perceive that when _philo- 


287 


PLATO 


E διαδεδεμένην ἐν τῷ ca@patt καὶ προσκεκολλη- 


83 


4 3 f \ “ 4 € A \ 
μένην, ἀναγκαζομένην δὲ ὥσπερ διὰ εἱργμοῦ διὰ 

4 “ \ » > \ \ ᾽ A ’ 
τούτου σκοπεῖσθαι τὰ ὄντα ἀλλὰ μὴ αὐτὴν δι 
αὑτῆς, καὶ ἐν πάσῃ ἀμαθίᾳ κυλινδουμένην, καὶ 
τοῦ εἱργμοῦ τὴν δεινότητα κατιδοῦσα ὅτι Sv 
9 , ᾽ ὔ e A ΄ 2 ς , 
ἐπιθυμίας ἐστίν, ὡς ἂν μάλιστα αὐτὸς ὁ δεδεμένος 
ξυλλήπτωρ εἴη τοῦ δεδέσθαι,---ὅπερ οὖν λέγω, 
γιγνώσκουσιν οἱ φιλομαθεῖς ὅτι οὕτω παραλα- 
βοῦσα ἡ φιλοσοφία ἔχουσαν αὐτῶν τὴν ψυχὴν 
ἠρέμα παραμυθεῖται, καὶ λύειν ἐπιχειρεῖ, ἐνδεικ- 
νυμένη ὅτι ἀπάτης μὲν μεστὴ ἡ διὰ τῶν ὀμμάτων 
σκέψις, ἀπάτης δὲ ἡ διὰ τῶν ὦὥτων καὶ τῶν 
v 3 Lf ’ Ν > vA \ 
ἄχλων αἰσθήσεων, πείθουσα δὲ ἐκ τούτων μὲν 
ἀναχωρεῖν, ὅσον μὴ ἀνάγκη αὐτοῖς χρῆσθαι, 
αὐτὴν δὲ εἰς αὑτὴν ξυλλέγεσθαι καὶ ἀθροίζεσθαι 
παρακελευομένη, πιστεύειν δὲ μηδενὶ ἄλλῳ ἀλλ᾽ 
ἢ αὐτὴν αὑτῇ, ὅ τι ἂν νοήσῃ αὐτὴ καθ᾽ αὑτὴν 
αὐτὸ καθ᾽ αὑτὸ τῶν ὄντων" ὅ τι δ᾽ ἂν δι’ ἄλλων 

a 2 ΝΜ bal μή \ e a 
σκοπῇ ἐν ἄλλοις ὃν ἄλλο, μηδὲν ἡγεῖσθαι 
> / 4 \ Ν \ “ > J, 
ἀληθές. εἶναι δὲ τὸ μὲν τοιοῦτον αἰσθητόν τε Kal 
ὁρατόν, ὃ δὲ αὐτὴ ὁρᾷ νοητόν τε καὶ ἀειδές. ταύτῃ 
οὖν τῇ λύσει οὐκ οἰομένη δεῖν ἐναντιοῦσθαι ἡ τοῦ 
ὡς ἀληθῶς φιλοσόφου ψυχὴ οὕτως ἀπέχεται 
τῶν ἡδονῶν τε καὶ ἐπιθυμιῶν καὶ λυπῶν καὶ 
φόβων, καθ᾽ ὅσον δύναται, λογιζομένη ὅ ὅτι, ἐπειδάν 
τις σφόδ a ἡσθῇ ὴ φοβηθῇ ἢ ἢ λυπηθῇ ἢ ἢ ἐπιθυ- 
μήσῃ, οὐδὲν τοσοῦτον κακὸν ἔπαθεν ἀ ἀπ᾽ αὐτῶν ὧν 
ἄν tis οἰηθείη, οἷον ἢ νοσήσας ἤ Tt ἀναλώσας 
> 

διὰ τὰς ἐπιθυμίας, ἀλλ ὃ πάντων μέγιστόν τε 
κακὸν καὶ ἔσχατόν ἐστι, τοῦτο πάσχει καὶ οὐ 
λογίζεται αὐτό. Τί τοῦτο, ὦ Σώκρατες; ἔφη ὁ 


288 


PHAEDO 


sophy first takes possession of their soul it is 
entirely fastened and welded to the body and is 
compelled to regard realities through the body as 
through prison bars, not with its own unhindered 
vision, and is wallowing in utter ignorance. And 
philosophy sees that the most dreadful thing about 
the imprisonment is the fact that it is caused by 
the lusts of the flesh, so that the prisoner is the 
chief assistant in his own imprisonment. The lovers 
of knowledge, then, I say, perceive that philosophy, 
taking possession of the soul when it is in this state, 
encourages it gently and tries to set it free, pointing 
out that the eyes and the ears and the other senses 
are full of deceit, and urging it to withdraw from 
these, except in so far as their use is unavoidable, 
and exhorting it to collect and concentrate itself 
within itself, and to trust nothing except itself and 
its own abstract thought of abstract existence ; and 
to believe that there is no truth in that which it 
sees by other means and which varies with the 
various objects in which it appears, since everything 
of that kind is visible and apprehended by the 
senses, whereas the soul itself sees that which is 
invisible and apprehended by the mind. Now the 
soul of the true philosopher believes that it must 
not resist this deliverance, and therefore it stands 
aloof from pleasures and lusts and griefs and fears, 
so far as it can, considering that when anyone has 
violent pleasures or fears or griefs or lusts he suffers 
from them not merely what one might think—for 
example, illness or loss of money spent for his 
lusts—but he suffers the greatest and most extreme 
evil and does not take it into account.” 
“ What is this evil, Socrates?” said Cebes. 


289 


84 


PLATO 


Κέβης Ὅτι ψυχὴ παντὸς ἀνθρώπου ἀναγκάζεται 
Cd ξ a a a JF \ 
ἅμα τε ἡσθῆναι ἢ λυπηθῆναι σφόδρα ἐπί τῳ καὶ 
ἡγεῖσθαι, περὶ ὃ ἂν μάλιστα τοῦτο πάσχῃ, τοῦτο 
9 / 
ἐναργέστατόν τε εἶναι Kal ἀληθέστατον, οὐχ 
ef » ΒΡ lel δὲ if \ e fe Aa Μ 
οὕτως ἔχον" ταῦτα μάλιστα Ta ορατά" ἢ ov; 
Πάνυ γε. Οὐκοῦν ἐν τούτῳ τῷ πάθει μάλεστα 
καταδεῖται ψυχὴ ὑπὸ σώματος; Iles δή; “Ore 
ἘΠΕ Ζ ς \ \ 4 ef ie 4 
ἑκάστη ἡδονὴ Kal λύπη ὥσπερ ἧλον ἔχουσα 
προσηλοῖ αὐτὴν πρὸς τὸ σῶμα καὶ προσπερονᾷ 
καὶ ποιεῖ σωματοειδῆ, δοξάζουσαν ταῦτα ἀληθῆ 
εἶναι ἅπερ ἂν καὶ τὸ σῶμα φῇ. ἐκ γὰρ τοῦ 
ὁμοδοξεῖν τῷ σώματι καὶ τοῖς αὐτοῖς χαίρειν 
ἀναγκάζεται οἶμαι ὁμότροπός τε καὶ ὁμότροφος 
’ \ vA / > dé “ 
γίγνεσθαι καὶ οἵα μηδέποτε εἰς “Αἰδου καθαρῶς 
> / ? \ Fin lel UL > / 2 
ἀφικέσθαι, ἀλλὰ ἀεὶ τοῦ σώματος ἀναπλέα ἐξιέναι, 
oe \ / , ? ΝΜ ry \ 
ὥστε ταχὺ πάλιν πίπτειν εἰς ἄλλο σῶμα καὶ 
ὥσπερ σπειρομένη ἐμφύεσθαι, καὶ ἐκ τούτων 
a a / a 
ἄμοιρος εἶναι τῆς τοῦ θείου τε Kal καθαροῦ καὶ 
a > s 
μονοειδοῦς συνουσίας. ᾿Αληθέστατα, ἔφη, λέγεις, 
ς , * ͵ 
ὁ Κέβης, ὦ Σώκρατες. 

84, Τούτων τοίνυν ἕνεκα, ὦ Κέβης, οἱ δικαίως 
φιλομαθεῖς κόσμιοί εἰσι καὶ ἀνδρεῖοι, οὐχ ὧν οἱ 
πολλοὶ ἕνεκα: ἢ σὺ οἴει; Οὐ δῆτα ἔγωγε. Οὐ 

3 
γάρ, ἀλλ᾽ οὕτω λογίσαιτ᾽ ἂν ψυχὴ ἀνδρὸς φιλο- 

s \ > A ᾽ \ \ ’ 
σόφου, καὶ οὐκ ἂν οἰηθείη τὴν μὲν φιλοσοφίαν 
χρῆναι ἑαυτὴν λύειν, λυούσης δὲ ἐκείνης αὐτὴν 
ταῖς ἡδοναῖς καὶ λύπαις ἑαυτὴν πάλιν αὖ ἐγκα- 
ταδεῖν καὶ ἀνήνυτον ἔργον πράττειν Πηνελόπης 


290 


PHAEDO 


‘The evil is that the soul of every man, when it 
is greatly pleased or pained by anything, is com- 
pelled to believe that the object which caused the 
emotion is very distinct and very true ; but it is not. 
These objects are mostly the visible ones, are they 
Hot re 

‘ Certainly.” 

“ And when this occurs, is not the soul most 
completely put in bondage by the body?” 

« How so?” 

‘«‘ Because each pleasure or pain nails it as with a 
nail to the body and rivets it on and makes it cor- 
poreal, so that it fancies the things are true which 
the body says are true. For because it has the same 
beliefs and pleasures as the body it is compelled to 
adopt also the same habits and mode of life, and can 
never depart in purity to the other world, but must 
always go away contaminated with the body; and so 
it sinks quickly into another body again and grows 
into it, like seed that is sown. Therefore it has no 
part in the communion with the divine and pure and 
absolute.” 

“What you say, Socrates, is very true,’ said 
Cebes. 

« This, Cebes, is the reason why the true lovers of 
knowledge are temperate and brave; not the world’s 
reason. Or do you disagree ?”’ 

Certainly not.” 

“No, for the soul of the philosopher would not 
reason as others do, and would not think it right 
that philosophy should set it free, and that then 
when set free it should give itself again into bondage 
to pleasure and pain and engage in futile toil, like 
Penelope unweaving the web she wove. No, his 


201 


PLATO 


τινὰ ἐναντίως ἱστὸν μεταχειριζομένην, ἀλλὰ 
γαλήνην τούτων παρασκευάζουσα, ἑπομένη τῷ 
λογισμῷ καὶ ἀεὶ ἐν τούτῳ οὖσα, τὸ ἀληθὲς καὶ τὸ 
θεῖον καὶ τὸ ἀδόξαστον θεωμένη καὶ ὑπ᾽ ἐκείνου 
τρεφομένη, ζῆν τε οἴεται οὕτω δεῖν, ἕως ἂν ζῇ, καὶ 
ἐπειδὰν τελευτήσῃ, εἰς τὸ ξυγγενὲς καὶ εἰς τὸ 
τοιοῦτον ἀφικομένη ἀπηλλάχθαι τῶν ἀνθρωπίνων 
κακῶν. ἐκ δὲ τῆς τοιαύτης τ οφῆς οὐδὲν δεινὸν 
μὴ φοβηθῇ, ὦ Σιμμία τε καὶ Κέβης, ὅπως μὴ 
ιασπασθεῖσα ἐν τῇ ἀπαλλαγῇ τοῦ σώματος ὑπὸ 
τῶν ἀνέμων διαφυσηθεῖσα καὶ διαπτομένη οἴχηται 
καὶ οὐδὲν ἔτι οὐδαμοῦ 7 7. 

35. Σιγὴ οὖν ἐγένετο ταῦτα εἰπόντος τοῦ 
ὠκράτους ἐπὶ πολὺν Χρόνον, καὶ αὐτός τε πρὸς 
τῷ εἰρημένῳ λόγῳ ἦν ὁ Σωκράτης, ὡς ἰδεῖν 
ἐφαίνετο, καὶ ἡμῶν οἱ πλεῖστοι. Κέβης δὲ καὶ 
Σιμμίας σμικρὸν πρὸς ἀλλήλω διελεγέσθην' καὶ 
ὁ Σωκράτης ἰδὼν αὐτὼ ἤρετο" Τί; ἔφη, ὑμῖν τὰ 
λεχθέντα μῶν μὴ δοκεῖ ἐνδεῶς λέγεσθαι; πολλὰς 
γὰρ δὴ ἔτι ἔχει ὑποψίας καὶ ἀντιλαβάς, εἴ γε δή 
τις αὐτὰ μέλλει ἱκανῶς διεξιέναι. εἰ μὲν οὖν τι 
ἄλλο σκοπεῖσθον, οὐδὲν λέγω" εἰ δέ τι περὶ 
τούτων ἀπορεῖτον, μηδὲν ἀποκνήσητε καὶ αὐτοὶ 
εἰπεῖν καὶ διελθεῖν, εἴ πῃ ὑμῖν φαίνεται βέλτιον 
ἂν λεχθῆναι, καὶ αὖ καὶ ἐμὲ συμπαραλαβεῖν, εἴ 
τι μᾶλλον οἴεσθε μετ᾽ ἐμοῦ εὐπορήσειν. καὶ ὁ 
Σιμμίας ἔφη: Καὶ μήν, ὦ Σώκρατες, τἀληθῆ σοι 
ἐρῶ. πάλαι γὰρ ἡμῶν ἑκάτερος ἀπορῶν τὸν ἕτε- 
ρον προωθεῖ καὶ κελεύει ἐρέσθαι διὰ τὸ ἐπιθυμεῖν 


1 After φοβηθῇ the MSS. read ταῦτα δ᾽ ἐπιτηδεύσασα, Ast 
bracketed this and is followed by Schanz and Burnet. 


292 


PHAEDO 


soul believes that it must gain peace from these 
emotions, must follow reason and abide always in it, 
beholding that which is true and divine and not a 
matter of opinion, and making that its only food; 
and in this way it believes it must live, while life 
endures, and then at death pass on to that which is 
akin to itself and of like nature, and be free from 
human ills. A soul which has been nurtured in this 
way, Simmias and Cebes, is not likely to fear that it 
will be torn asunder at its departure from the body 
and will vanish into nothingness, blown apart by the 
winds, and be no longer anywhere.” 

When Socrates had said this there was silence for 
a long time, and Socrates himself was apparently 
absorbed in what had been said, as were also most of 
us. But Simmias and Cebes conversed a little with 
each other; and Socrates saw them and said: “ Do 
you think there is any incompleteness in what has 
been said? There are still many subjects for doubt 
and many points.open to attack, if anyone cares to 
discuss the matter thoroughly. If you are considering 
anything else, I have nothing to say; but if you are 
in any difficulty about these matters, do not hesitate 
to speak and discuss them yourselves, if you think 
anything better could be said on the subject, and to 
take me along with you in the discussion, if you 
think you can get on better in my company.” 

And Simmias said: “ Socrates, I will tell you the 
truth. For some time each of us has been in doubt 
and has been egging the other on and urging him to 
ask a question, because we wish to hear your answer, 


293 


δῦ 


PLATO 


μὲν ἀκοῦσαι, ὀκνεῖν δὲ ὄχλον παρέχειν, μή σοι 
ἀηδὲς ἡ διὰ τὴν παροῦσαν συμφοράν. καὶ ὃς 
ἀκούσας ἐγέλασέν τε ἠρέμα καί φησιν, Βαβαί, 
ὦ Σιμμία: ἢ που χαλεπῶς ἂν τοὺς ἄλλους ἀνθρώ- 
TOUS πείσαιμι, ὡς οὐ συμφορὰν ἡγοῦμαι τὴν 
παροῦσαν τύχην, ὅτε γε μηδ᾽ ὑμᾶς δύναμαι 
πείθειν, ἀλλὰ φοβεῖσθε, μὴ δυσκολώτερόν τι νῦν 
διάκειμαι ἢ ἐν τῷ πρόσθεν βίῳ: καί, ὡς ἔοικε, 
τῶν κύκνων δοκῶ φαυλότερος ὑμῖν εἶναι τὴν 
μαντικήν, οὗ ἐπειδὰν αἴσθωνται ὅτι δεῖ αὐτοὺς 
ἀποθανεῖν, ἄδοντες καὶ ἐν τῷ πρόσθεν χρόνῳ, 
τότε δὴ πλεῖστα καὶ μάλιστα ἄδουσι, γεγηθότες 
ὅτε μέλλουσι παρὰ τὸν θεὸν ἀπιέναι, οὗπέρ εἰσι 
θεράποντες. οἱ δ᾽ ἄνθρωποι διὰ τὸ αὑτῶν δέος 
τοῦ θανάτου καὶ τῶν κύκνων καταψεύδονται, καί 
φασιν αὐτοὺς θρηνοῦντας τὸν θάνατον ὑπὸ λύπης 
ἐξάδειν, καὶ οὐ λογίζονται, ὅ ὅτι οὐδὲν ὄρνεον abet, 
ὅταν πεινῇ ἢ ῥιγοῖ ἤ τινα ἄλλην λύπην λυπῆται, 
οὐδὲ αὐτὴ ἥ τε ἀηδὼν καὶ χελιδὼν καὶ ὁ emo, ἃ ἃ 
δή φασι διὰ λύπην θρηνοῦντα ἄδειν' ἀλλ᾽ οὔτε 
ταῦτά μοι φαίνεται λυπούμενα ἄδειν οὔτε οἱ 
κύκνοι, ἀλλ᾽ ἅτε οἶμαι τοῦ ᾿Απόλλωνος ὄντες 
μαντικοί τέ εἶσι καὶ προειδότες τὰ ἐν “Αἰδου 
ἀγαθὰ ἄδουσι καὶ τέρπονται ἐκείνην τὴν ἡμέραν 


διαφερόντως ἢ ἐν τῷ ἔμπροσθεν χρόνῳ. ἐγὼ δὲ 


καὶ αὐτὸς ἡγοῦμαι ὁμόδουλός γε εἶναι τῶν κύκνων 
καὶ ἱερὸς τοῦ αὐτοῦ θεοῦ, καὶ οὐ χείρον᾽ ἐκείνων 
τὴν μαντικὴν ἔχειν παρὰ τοῦ δεσπότου, οὐδὲ 
δυσθυμότερον αὐτῶν τοῦ βίου ἀπαλλάττεσθαι. 
ἀλλὰ “τούτου γε ἕνεκα λέγειν τε χρὴ καὶ ἐρωτᾶν 


ὅ τι ἂν βούλησθε, ἕως ἂν ᾿Αθηναίων ἐῶσιν ἄνδρες 
294 


PHAEDO 


but hesitate to trouble you, for fear that it may be dis- 
agreeable to you in your present misfortune.” 

And when he heard this, he laughed gently and 
said: “Ah, Simmias! I should have hard work to 
persuade other people that I do not regard my present 
situation as a misfortune, when I cannot even make 
you believe it, but you are afraid 1 am more churlish 
now than I used to be. And you seem to think 1 
am inferior in prophetic power to the swans who sing 
at other times also, but when they feel that they are 
to die, sing most and best in their joy that they are 
to go to the god whose servants they are. But men, 
because of their own fear of death, misrepresent the 
swans and say that they sing for sorrow, in mourning 
for their own death. They do not consider that no 
bird sings when it is hungry or cold or has any 
other trouble; no, not even the nightingale or the 
swallow or the hoopoe which are said to sing in 
lamentation. I do not believe they sing for grief, 
nor do the swans; but since they are Apollo's birds, 
I believe they have prophetic vision, and because 
they have foreknowledge of the blessings in the 
other world they sing and rejoice on that day more 
than ever before. And I think that I am myself a 
fellow-servant of the swans, and am consecrated to 
the same God and have received from our master a 
gift of prophecy no whit inferior to theirs, and that 
I go out from life with as little sorrow as they. So 
far as this is concerned, then, speak and ask what- 
ever questions you please, so long as the eleven of 
the Athenians permit.” 


295 


86 


PLATO 


ἕνδεκα Καλῶς, ἔφη, λέγεις, ὁ Σιμμίας" καὶ 
ἔγωγέ σοι ἐρῶ ὃ ἀπορῶ, καὶ αὖ ὅδε, ἡ οὐκ 
ἀποδέχεται τὰ εἰρημένα. ἐμοὶ γὰρ δοκεῖ, ὦ 
Σώκρατες, περὶ τῶν τοιούτων ἴσως ὥσπερ καὶ σοὶ 
τὸ μὲν σαφὲς εἰδέναι ἐν τῷ νῦν βίῳ ἢ ἀδύνατον 
εἶναι ἢ “παγχάλεπόν τί, τὸ μέντοι αὖ τὰ λεγόμενα 
περὶ αὐτῶν μὴ οὐχὶ παντὶ τρόπῳ ἐλέγχειν καὶ 
μὴ προαφίστασθαι, πρὶν ἂν πανταχῇ σκοπῶν 
ἀπείπῃ τις, πάνυ μαλθακοῦ εἶναι ἀνδρός" δεῖν 
γὰρ περὶ αὐτὰ ἕν γέ TL τούτων διαπράξασθαι, 
ἢ “μαθεῖν ὅπῃ ἔχει ἢ εὑρεῖν ἤ, εἰ ταῦτα ἀδύνατον, 
τὸν γοῦν βέλτιστον τῶν ἀνθρωπίνων λόγων 
λαβόντα καὶ δυσεξελεγκτότατον, ἐπὶ τούτου 
ὀχούμενον ὥσπερ ἐπὶ σχεδίας κινδυνεύοντα 
διαπλεῦσαι τὸν βίον, εἰ μή τις δύναιτο ἀσφαλέσ- 
τερον καὶ ἀκινδυνότερον ἐπὶ βεβαιοτέρου ὀχή- 
ματος, λόγου θείου τινός, διαπορευθῆναι. καὶ δὴ 
καὶ νῦν ἔγωγε οὐκ ἐπαισχυνθήσομαι ἐρέσθαι, 
ἐπειδὴ καὶ σὺ ταῦτα λέγεις, οὐδ᾽ ἐμαυτὸν αἰτιά- 
σομαι ἐν ὑστέρῳ χρόνῳ, ὅτι νῦν οὐκ εἶπον ἃ 
ἐμοὶ δοκεῖ. ἐμοὶ γάρ, ὧ Σώκρατες, ἐπειδὴ καὶ 
πρὸς “ἐμαυτὸν καὶ πρὸς τόνδε σκοπῶ τὰ εἰρημένα, 
οὐ πάνυ φαίνεται ἱ ἱκανῶς εἰρῆσθαι. 

36. Καὶ ὁ Σωκράτης" Ἴσως γάρ, ἔφη, @ 
ἑταῖρε, ἀληθῆ σοι φαίνεται' ἀλλὰ λέγε, ὅπῃ δὴ 
οὐχ ἱκανῶς. Ταύτῃ ἔμοιγε, ἡ δ᾽ ὅς, ἡ δὴ καὶ 
περὶ ἁρμονίας ἄν τις καὶ “λύρας τε καὶ χορδῶν 
τὸν αὐτὸν τοῦτον λόγον εἴποι, ὡς ἡ μὲν ἁρμονία 
ἀόρατόν τι καὶ ἀσώματον καὶ πάγκαλόν τί καὶ 
θεῖόν ἐστιν ἐν τῇ ἡρμοσμένῃ λύρᾳ, αὐτὴ δ᾽ ἡ λύρα 


1 Schanz brackets ἕως. .. ἕνδεκα. 


296 


PHAEDO 


“ Good,” said Simmias. “I will tell you my 
difficulty, and then Cebes in turn will say why he 
does not agree to all you have said. I think, Socrates, 
as perhaps you do yourself, that it is either impossible 
or very difficult to acquire clear knowledge about 
these matters in this life. And yet he is a weakling 
who does not test in every way what is said about 
them and persevere until he is worn out by studying 
them on every side. For he must do one of two 
things; either he must learn or discover the truth 
about these matters, or if that is impossible, he must 
take whatever human doctrine is best and hardest to 
disprove and, embarking upon it as upon a raft, sail 
upon it through life in the midst of dangers, unless 
he can sail upon some stronger vessel, some divine 
revelation, and make his voyage more safely and 
securely. And so now I am not ashamed to ask 
questions, since you encourage me to do so, and I 
shall not have to blame myself hereafter for not 
saying now what 1 think. For, Socrates, when I 
examine what has been said, either alone or with 
Cebes, it does not seem quite satisfactory.” 

And Socrates replied: “ Perhaps, my friend, you 
are right. But tell me in what respect it is not 
satisfactory.” 

“In this,” said he, “that one might use the same 
argument about harmony and a lyre with its strings. 
One might say that the harmony is invisible and in- 
corporeal, and very beautiful and divine in the well at- 
tuned lyre, but the lyre itself and its strings are bodies, 


297 


PLATO 


καὶ αἱ χορδαὶ σώματά te καὶ σωματοειδῇ καὶ 
ξύνθετα καὶ γεώδη ἐστὶ καὶ τοῦ θνητοῦ Evy- 
γενῆ. ἐπειδὰν οὖν ἢ κατάξῃ τις τὴν λύραν ἢ 
διατέμῃ ' καὶ διαρρήξῃ τὰς χορδάς, εἴ τις διεσχυρί- 
ζοιτο τῷ αὐτῷ λόγῳ ὥσπερ σύ, ὡς ἀνάγκη ἔτι 
εἶναι τὴν ἁρμονίαν ἐκείνην καὶ μὴ ἀπολωλέναι: 
οὐδεμία γὰρ μηχανὴ ἂν εἴη τὴν μὲν λύραν ἔτι 
εἶναι διερρωγυιῶν τῶν ορδῶν * καὶ τὰς χορδὰς 
θνητοειδεῖς οὔσας, τὴν Ἂ ἁρμονίαν ἀπολωλέναι 
τὴν τοῦ θείου τε καὶ ἀθανάτου ὁμοφνῆ τε καὶ 
ξυγγενῆ, προτέραν τοῦ θνητοῦ “ἀπολομένην' ἀλλὰ 
φαίη ἀνάγκη ἔτι που εἶναι αὐτὴν τὴν ἁρμονίαν, 
καὶ πρότερον τὰ ξύλα καὶ τὰς χορδὰς κατασαπή- 
σεσθαι, πρίν τι ἐκείνην παθεῖν, --- καὶ γὰρ οὖν, 
ὦ Σώκρατες, οἶμαι ἔγωγε καὶ αὐτόν σε τοῦτο 
ἐντεθυμῆσθαι, ὅτι τοιοῦτόν τι μάλιστα ὑπολαμ- 
βάνομεν τὴν ψυχὴν εἶναι, ὥσπερ ἐντεταμένου τοῦ 
σώματος ἡμῶν καὶ συνεχομένου ὑπὸ θερμοῦ καὶ 
ψυχροῦ καὶ ξηροῦ καὶ ὑγροῦ καὶ τοιούτων τινῶν, 
κρᾶσιν εἶναι καὶ ἁρμονίαν αὐτῶν τούτων τὴν 
ψυχὴν ἡμῶν, ἐπειδὰν ταῦτα καλῶς καὶ μετρίως 
κραθῇ “πρὸς ἄλληλα. εἰ οὖν τυγχάνει ἡ ψυχὴ 
οὖσα ἁρμονία τίς, δῆλον ὅτι, ὅταν αλασθῇ τὸ 
σῶμα ἡμῶν “ἀμέτρως ἢ ἐπιταθῇ ὑπὸ νόσων καὶ 
ἄλλων κακῶν, τὴν μὲν box ἀνάγκη εὐθὺς 
ὑπάρχει ἀπολωλέναι, καΐπερ οὖσαν θειοτάτην, 
ὥσπερ καὶ αἱ ἄλλαι ἁρμονίαι at τ' ἐν τοῖς 
φθόγγοις καὶ αἱ ἐν τοῖς τῶν δημιουργῶν ἔργοις 
πᾶσι, τὰ δὲ λείψανα τοῦ σώματος ἑκάστου πολὺν 


1 Schanz brackets διατέμῃ. 
2 Schanz brackets διερρωγνιῶν τῶν χορδῶν. 


298 


PHAEDO 


and corporeal and composite and earthy and akin to 
that which is mortal. Now if someone shatters the 
lyre or cuts and breaks the strings, what if he should 
maintain by the same argument you employed, that 
the harmony could not have perished and must still 
exist? For there would be no possibility that the 
lyre and its strings, which are of mortal nature, still 
exist after the strings are broken, and the harmony, 
which is related and akin to the divine and the 
immortal, perish before that which is mortal. He 
would say that the harmony must still exist some- 
where, and that the wood and the strings must rot 
away before anything could happen to it. And I 
fancy, Socrates, that it must have occurred to your own 
mind that we believe the soul to be something after 
this fashion; that our body is strung and held 
together by heat, cold, moisture, dryness, and the 
like, and the soul is a mixture and a harmony of 
these same elements, when they are well and 
properly mixed. Now if the soul is a harmony, it 
is clear that when the body is too much relaxed or is 
too tightly strung by diseases or other ills, the soul 
must of necessity perish, no matter how divine it is, 
like other harmonies in sounds and in all the works 
of artists, and the remains of each body will endure a 


299 


PLATO 


a ἃ 


/ 
Ὁ χρόνον παραμένειν, ἕως ἂν ἢ κατακαυθῇ ἢ κατα- 


87 


σαπῇ. ὅρα οὗν πρὸς τοῦτον τὸν λόγον τί φήσο- 
μεν, ἐάν τις ἀξιοῖ κρᾶσιν οὖσαν τὴν ψυχὴν τῶν 
ἐν τῷ σώματι ἐν τῷ καλουμένῳ θανάτῳ πρώτην 
ἀπόλλυσθαι. 

aT. Διαβλέψας οὖν ὁ Σωκράτης, ὥσπερ, τὰ 
πολλὰ εἰώθει, καὶ μειδιάσας, Δίκαια μέντοι, ἔφη, 
λέγει ὁ ,Σιμμίας. εἰ οὖν τις ὑμῶν εὐπορώτερος 
ἐμοῦ, τί οὐκ ἀπεκρίνατο ; καὶ γὰρ οὐ φαύλως 
ἔοικεν ἁπτομένῳ τοῦ λόγου. δοκεῖ μέντοι μοι 
χρῆναι πρὸ τῆς ἀποκρίσεως ἔ ἔτι πρότερον Κέβητος 
ἀκοῦσαι, τί av ὅδε ἐγκαλεῖ τῷ “λόγῳ, | ἵνα χρόνου 
ἐγγενομένου βουλευσώμεθα, τί ἐροῦμεν, ἔπειτα δὲ 
ἀκούσαντας ἢ συγχωρεῖν αὐτοῖς, ἐάν τι δοκῶσι 
προσάδειν, ἐὰν δὲ μή, οὕτως ἤδη ὑπερδικεῖν Τοῦ 
λόγου. ἀλλ᾽ aye, 7) δ᾽ ὅς, ὦ Κέβης, λέγε, τί ἦν 
τὸ σὲ αὖ θρᾶττον. Λέγω δή, ἢ δ᾽ ὃς ὁ Κέβης. 
ἐμοὶ γὰρ φαίνεται ἐ ἔτι ἐν τῷ αὐτῷ ὁ λόγος εἶναι, 
Kai, ὅπερ ἐν τοῖς πρόσθεν ἐλέγομεν, ταὐτὸν 
ἔγκλημα ἔχειν. ὅτι μὲν γὰρ ἦν ἡμῶν ἡ ψυχὴ καὶ 
πρὶν els τόδε TO εἶδος ἐλθεῖν, οὐκ ἀνατίθεμαι μὴ 
οὐχὶ πάνυ χαριέντως, καί, εἰ μὴ ἐπαχθές ἐστιν 
εἰπεῖν, πάνυ ἱκανῶς ἀποδεδεῖχθαι: ὡς δὲ καὶ 
ἀποθανόντων ἡμῶν ἔτι που ἔσται, οὔ μοι δοκεῖ 
τῇδε. ὡς μὲν οὐκ ἰσχυρότερον καὶ πολυχρονιώ- 
τερον “ψυχὴ σώματος, οὐ συγχωρῶ τῇ “Σιμμίου 
ἀντιλήψει: δοκεῖ γάρ μοι πᾶσι τούτοις πάνυ πολὺ 
διαφέρειν. τί οὖν, ἂν φαίη ὁ λόγος, ἔτι ἀπιστεῖς, 
ἐπειδὴ ὁρᾷς ἀποθανόντος τοῦ ἀνθρώπου τό γε 
ἀσθενέστερον ἔτε Gv; τὸ δὲ πολυχρονιώτερον οὐ 
δοκεῖ σοι ἀναγκαῖον εἶναι ἔτι σῴζεσθαι ἐ ἐν τούτῳ 
τῷ χρόνῳ; πρὸς δὴ τοῦτο τόδε ἐπίσκεψαι, εἴ τι 


300 


PHAEDO 


long time until they are burnt or decayed. Now 
what shall we say to this argument, if anyone claims 
that the soul, being a mixture of the elements of 
the body, is the first to perish in what is called 
death?” 

Then Socrates, looking keenly at us, as he often 
used to do, smiled and said: “ Simmias raises a fair 
objection. Now if any of you is readier than I, why 
does he not reply to him? For he seems to score a 
good point. However, I think before replying to 
him we ought to hear what fault our friend Cebes 
finds with our argument, that we may take time to 
consider what to say, and then when we have heard 
them, we can either agree with them, if they seem 
to strike the proper note, or, if they do not, we can 
proceed to argue in defence of our reasoning. Come, 
Cebes,” said he, “ tell us what it was that troubled 

ou. 

“ Well, I will tell you,’ said Cebes. “The argu- 
ment seems to me to be just where it was, and to be 
still open to the objection I made before. For I do 
not deny that it has been very cleverly, and, if I may 
say so, conclusively shown that the soul existed 
before it entered into this bodily form, but it does 
not seem to me proved that it will still exist when 
we are dead. I do not agree with Simmias’ objection, 
that the soul is not stronger and more lasting than 
the body, for I think it is far superior in all such 
respects. ‘Why then,’ the argument might say, ‘do 
you still disbelieve, when you see that after a man 
dies the weaker part still exists? Do you not think 
the stronger part must necessarily be preserved 
during the same length of time?’ Now see if my 


301 


PLATO 


λέγω" εἰκόνος γάρ τινος, ὡς ἔοικεν, κἀγὼ ὥσπερ 
Σιμμίας δέομαι. ἐμοὶ γὰρ δοκεῖ ὁμοίως λέγεσθαι 
ταῦτα, ὥσπερ ἄν τις περὶ ἀνθρώπου ὑφάντου 
πρεσβύτου ἀποθανόντος λέγοι τοῦτον τὸν λόγον, 
ὅτι οὐκ ἀπόλωλεν ὁ ἄνθρωπος, ἀλλ᾽ ἔστι που 
σῶς, τεκμήριον δὲ παρέχοιτο θοιμάτιον ὃ ἡμπεί- 
χετο αὐτὸς ὑφηνάμενος, ὅτι ἐστὶ σῶν καὶ οὐκ 
ἀπόλωλεν, καὶ εἴ τις ἀπιστοίη αὐτῷ, ἀνερωτῴη 
πότερον ποχυχρονιώτερόν ἐστι τὸ γένος ἀνθρώπου 
ἢ ἱματίου ἐν χρείᾳ τε ὄντος καὶ φορουμένου, ἀπο- 
κριναμένου δέ τινος ὅτι πολὺ τὸ τοῦ ἀνθρώπου, 
οἴοιτο ἀποδεδεῖχθαι ὅτι παντὸς ἄρα μᾶλλον ὅ 
γε ἄνθρωπος σῶς ἔστιν, ἐπειδὴ τό ye ὀλεγοχρονιώ- 
τερον οὐκ ἀπόλωλεν. τὸ δ᾽ οἶμαι, ὦ «Σιμμία, 
οὐχ οὕτως ἔχει" σκόπει γὰρ καὶ σὺ ἃ λέγω. 
πᾶς γὰρ ἂν ὑπολάβοι ὅτι εὔηθες λέγει ὁ τοῦτο 
λέγων: ὁ γὰρ ὑφάντης οὗτος πολλὰ κατατρίψας 
τοιαῦτα ἱμάτια καὶ ὑφηνάμενος ἐκείνων μὲν 
ὕστερος ἀπόλωλεν πολλῶν ὄντων, τοῦ δὲ τελευ- 
ταίου οἶμαι πρότερος, καὶ οὐδέν τί μᾶλλον τούτου 
ἕνεκα ἄνθρωπός ἐστιν ἱματίου φαυλότερον οὐδ᾽ 
ἀσθενέστερον. τὴν αὐτὴν δὲ οἶμαι εἰκόνα. δέξαιτ᾽ 
ἂν ψυχὴ πρὸς “σῶμα, καί τις λέγων αὐτὰ ταῦτα 
περὶ αὐτῶν μέτρι᾽ ἄν μοι φαίνοιτο λέγειν, ὡς ἡ 
μὲν ψυχὴ πολυχρόνιόν ἐστι, τὸ δὲ σῶμα ἀσθενέ- 
στερον καὶ ὀλιγοχρονιώτερον" ἀλλὰ γὰρ ἂν φαίη 
ἑκάστην τῶν ψυχῶν πολλὰ σώματα κατατρίβειν, 
ἄλλως τε καὶ εἰ πολλὰ ἔτη Biddy: εἰ γὰρ ῥέοι τὸ 
σῶμα καὶ ἀπολλύοιτο ἔτι ζῶντος τοῦ ἀνθρώπου, 
ἀλλ᾽ ἡ ψυχὴ ἀεὶ τὸ κατατριβόμενον ἀνυφαΐίνοι, 


1 σῶς Schanz, after Forster; ἴσως BODE. 
302 


PHAEDO 


reply to this has any sense. I think I may, like 
Simmias, best express myself in a figure. It seems 
to me that it is much as if one should say about an 
old weaver who had died, that the man had not 
perished but was safe and sound somewhere, and 
should offer as a proof of this the fact that the cloak 
which the man had woven and used to wear was 
still whole and had not perished. Then if anyone 
did not believe him, he would ask which lasts longer, 
a man or a cloak that is in use and wear, and when 
the answer was given that a man lasts much longer, 
he would think it had been proved beyond a doubt 
that the man was safe, because that which was less 
lasting had not perished. 

“ But I do not think he is right, Simmias, and I 
ask you especially to notice what Isay. Anyone can 
understand that a man who says this is talking 
nonsense. For the weaver in question wove and 
wore out many such cloaks and lasted longer than 
they, though they were many, but perished, I suppose, 
before the last one. Yet a man is not feebler or 
weaker than a cloak on that account at all. And 
I think the same figure would apply to the soul and 
the body and it would be quite appropriate to say in 
like manner about them, that the soul lasts a long 
time, but the body lasts a shorter time and is weaker. 
And one might go on to say that each soul wears out 
many bodies, especially if the man lives many years. 
For if the body is constantly changing and being 
destroyed while the man still lives, and the soul is 
always weaving anew that which wears out, then 


393 


88 


PLATO 


ἀναγκαῖον μέντ᾽ ἂν εἴη, ὁπότε ἀπολλύοιτο ἡ 
ψυχή, τὸ τελευταῖον ὕφασμα τυχεῖν αὐτὴν 
ἔχουσαν καὶ τούτου μόνου προτέραν ἀπόλλυσθαι, 
ἀπολομένης δὲ τῆς ψυχῆς τότ᾽ ἤδη τὴν φύσιν τῆς 
ἀσθενείας ἐπιδεικνύοι τὸ σῶμα καὶ ταχὺ σαπὲν 
διοίχοιτο. ὥστε τούτῳ τῷ λόγῳ οὔπω ἄξιον 
πιστεύσαντα θαρρεῖν, ὡς, ἐπειδὰν ἀποθάνωμεν, 
ἔτι που ἡμῶν ἡ ψυχὴ ἔσται. εἰ γάρ τις καὶ πλέον 
ἔτι τῷ λέγοντι ἃ σὺ λέγεις συγχωρήσειεν, δοὺς 
αὐτῷ μὴ μόνον ἐν τῷ πρὶν καὶ γενέσθαι ἡμᾶς 
χρόνῳ εἶναι ἡμῶν τὰς ψυχάς, ἀλλὰ μηδὲν κωλύειν 
καὶ ἐπειδὰν ἀποθάνωμεν ἐνίων ἔτει εἶναι καὶ 
ἔσεσθαι καὶ πολλάκις γενήσεσθαι καὶ ἀποθανεῖ- 
σθαι αὖθις: οὕτω γὰρ αὐτὸ φύσει ἰσχυρὸν εἶναι, 
ὥστε πολλάκις γιγνομένην ψυχὴν ἀντέχειν' δοὺς 
δὲ ταῦτα ἐκεῖνο μηκέτι συγχωροῖ, μὴ οὐ πονεῖν 
αὐτὴν ἐν ταῖς πολλαῖς γενέσεσιν καὶ τελευτῶσάν 
γε ἔν τινι τῶν θανάτων παντάπασιν ἀπόλλυσθαι: 
τοῦτον δὲ τὸν θάνατον καὶ ταύτην τὴν διάλυσιν 
τοῦ σώματος, ἣ τῇ ψυχῇ φέρει ὄλεθρον, μηδένα 
φαίη εἰδέναι" ἀδύνατον γὰρ εἶναι ὁτῳοῦν αἰσθάνε- 
σθαι ἡμῶν: εἰ δὲ τοῦτο οὕτως ἔχει, οὐδενὶ προσή- 
κει θάνατον θαρροῦντι μὴ οὐκ ἀνοήτως θαρρεῖν, 
ὃς ἂν μὴ ἔχῃ ἀποδεῖξαι, ὅτι ἔστι ψυχὴ παντά- 
πασιν ἀθάνατόν τε καὶ ἀνώλεθρον' εἰ δὲ μή, 
ἀνάγκην εἶναι ἀεὶ τὸν μέλλοντα ἀποθανεῖσθαι 
δεδιέναι ὑπὲρ τῆς αὑτοῦ “ψυχῆς, μ μὴ ἐν τῇ νῦν τοῦ 
τ ΠΣ διαξεύξει παντάπασιν ἀπόληται. 

. Πάντες οὖν ἀκούσαντες εὐπόντων αὐτῶν 
ληδῶς διετέθημεν, ὡς ὕστερον ἐλέγομεν πρὸς 
ἀλλήλους, ὅτε ὑπὸ τοῦ ἔμπροσθεν λόγου σφόδρα 
πεπεισμένους ἡμᾶς πάλιν ἐδόκουν ἀναταράξαι καὶ 


304 


Z PHAEDO 


when the soul perishes it must necessarily have on 
its last garment, and this only will survive it, and 
when the soul has perished, then the body will at 
once show its natural weakness and will quickly 
disappear in decay. And so we are not yet justified 
in feeling sure, on the strength of this argument, 
that our souls will still exist somewhere after we 
are dead. For if one were to grant even more 
to a man who uses your argument, Socrates, and 
allow not only that our souls existed before we 
were born, but also that there is nothing to prevent 
some of them from continuing to exist and from 
being born and dying again many times after we are 
dead, because the soul is naturally so strong that it 
can endure repeated births,—even allowing this, one 
might not grant that it does not suffer by its many 
births and does not finally perish altogether in one 
of its deaths. But he might say that no one knows 
beforehand the particular death and the particular 
dissolution of the body which brings destruction to 
the soul, for none of us can perceive that. Now if 
this is the case, anyone who feels confident about 
death has a foolish confidence, unless he can show 
that the soul is altogether immortal and imperish- 
able. Otherwise a man who is about to die must 
always fear that his soul will perish utterly in the 
impending dissolution of the body.”’ 

Now all of us, as we remarked to one another 
afterwards, were very uncomfortable when we heard 
what they said; for we had been thoroughly con- 
vinced by the previous argument, and now they 
seemed to be throwing us again into confusion and 


305 


89 


PLATO 


εἰς ἀπιστίαν καταβαλεῖν ov μόνον τοῖς προειρη- 
μένοις λόγοις, ἀχλὰ καὶ εἰς τὰ ὕστερον μέλλοντα 
ῥηθήσεσθαι, μὴ οὐδενὸς ἄξιοι εἶμεν κριταὶ ἢ καὶ 
τὰ πράγματα ἄπιστα 7. 

ΕΧΕΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Νὴ τοὺς θεούς, ὦ Φαίδων, συγγνώ- 
μὴν γε ἔχω ὑμῖν. καὶ γὰρ αὐτόν με νῦν ἀκού- 
σαντά σον τοιοῦτόν τι λέγειν πρὸς ἐμαυτὸν 
ἐπέρχεται" τίνε οὖν ἔτι πιστεύσομεν λόγῳ; ὡς 
γὰρ σφόδρα πιθανὸς ὦν, ὃν ὁ Σωκράτης ἔλεγε 
λόγον, νῦν εἰς ἀπιστίαν καταπέπτωκεν. θαυμασ- 
τῶς γάρ μου ὁ λόγος οὗτος ἀντιλαμβάνεται καὶ 
νῦν καὶ ἀεί, τὸ ἁρμονίαν τενὰ ἡμῶν εἶναι τὴν 
ψυχήν, καὶ ὥσπερ ὑπέμνησέν με ῥηθεὶς ὅτι καὶ 
αὐτῷ μοι ταῦτα προυδέδοκτο. καὶ πάνυ δέομαι 
πάλιν ὥσπερ ἐξ ἀρχῆς ἄλλου τινὸς λόγου, ὅς με 
πείσει ὡς τοῦ ἀποθανόντος οὐ συναποθνήσκει 
ἡ ψυχή. λέγε οὖν πρὸς “Διός, πῇ ὁ Σωκράτης 
μετῆλθε τὸν λόγον; καὶ πότερον κἀκεῖνος, ὥσπερ 

ὑμᾶς φής, ἔνδηλός τι ἐγένετο ἀχθόμενος ἢ οὔ, 
ἀλλὰ πράως ἐβοήθει τῷ λόγῳ; καὶ ἱκανῶς 
ἐβοήθησεν ἢ ἐνδεῶς; πάντα ἡμῖν δίελθε ὡς δύνα- 
σαι ἀκριβέστατα. 

ΦΑΙΔΩΝ. Καὶ μήν, ὦ ᾿Ἐχέκρατες, πολλάκις 
θαυμάσας Σωκράτη οὐ πώποτε μᾶλλον ἠγάσθην 
ἢ τότε παραγενόμενος. τὸ μὲν οὖν ἔχειν ὅ τι 
λέγοι ἐκεῖνος, ἴσως οὐδὲν ἄτοπον: ἀλλὰ ἔγωγε 
μάλιστα ἐθαύμασα αὐτοῦ πρῶτον μὲν τοῦτο, ὡς 
ἡδέως καὶ εὐμενῶς καὶ ἀγαμένως τῶν νεανίσκων 
τὸν λόγον ἀπεδέξατο, ἔπειτα ἡμῶν ὡς ὀξέως 
ἤσθετο ὃ ὃ πεπόνθειμεν ὑ ὑπὸ τῶν λόγων, ἔπειτα ὡς 
εὖ ἡμᾶς ἰάσατο καὶ ὥσπερ πεφευγότας καὶ 


306 


PHAEDO 


distrust, not only in respect to the past discussion 
but also with regard to any future one. They made 
us fear that our judgment was worthless or that no 
certainty could be attained in these matters. 

ECHECRATES. By the gods, Phaedo, I sympathise 
with you; for I myself after listening to you am 
inclined to ask myself: “ What argument shall we 
believe henceforth? For the argument of Socrates 
was perfectly convincing, and now it has fallen into 
discredit.” For the doctrine that the soul is a kind 
of harmony has always had (and has now) a wonderful 
hold upon me, and your mention of it reminded me 
that I had myself believed in it before. Naw I 
must begin over again and find another argument 
to convince me that when a man dies his soul does 
not perish with him. So, for heaven's sake, tell how 
Socrates continued the discourse, and whether he 
also, as you say the rest of you did, showed any 
uneasiness, or calmly defended his argument. And 
did he defend it successfully? Tell us everything 
as accurately as you can. 

PHAEDO. LEchecrates, I have often wondered at 
Socrates, but never did I admire him more than then. 
That he had an answer ready was perhaps to be 
expected ; but what astonished me more about him 
was, first, the pleasant, gentle, and respectful manner 
in which he listened to the young men’s criticisms, 
secondly, his quick sense of the effect their words 
had upon us, and lastly, the skill with which he cured 
us and, as it were, recalled us from our flight and 


397 


PLATO 


ἡττημένους ἀνεκαλέσατο Kal προύτρεψεν πρὸς TO 
παρέπεσθαΐ τε καὶ συσκοπεῖν τὸν λόγον. 

EXEKPATHS. Πῶς δή; 

ΦΑΙΔΩΝ. ᾿Εγὼ ἐρῶ. ἔτυχον γὰρ ἐν δεξιᾷ αὐτοῦ 
καθήμενος παρὰ τὴν κλίνην ἐπὶ χαμαιζήλου τινός, 
ὁ δὲ ἐπὶ πολὺ ὑψηλοτέρον ἢ ἐγώ. καταψήσας 
οὖν μου τὴν κεφαλὴν καὶ συμπιέσας τὰς ἐπὶ τῷ 
αὐχένι τρίχας -εἰώθει γάρ, ὁπότε τύχοι, παίζειν 
μον εἰς τὰς τρί ας---ΑΑὔριον δή, ἔφη, ἴσως, ὦ 
Φαίδων, τὰς καλᾶς κόμας ἀποκερεῖ. Ἔοικεν, ἣν 
δ᾽ ἐγώ, ὦ Σώκρατες. Οὔκ, ἄν γε ἐμοὶ πείθῃ. 
᾿Αλλὰ τί; ἦν δ᾽ ἐγώ. “Ῥήμερον, ἔφη, κἀγὼ τὰς 
ἐμὰς καὶ σὺ ταύτας, ἐάνπερ γε ἡμῖν ὁ λόγος 
τελευτήσῃ | καὶ μὴ δυνώμεθα αὐτὸν ἀναβιώσασθαι. 
καὶ ἔγωγ᾽ ἄν, εἰ σὺ εἴην καί με διαφεύγοι ὁ λόγος, 
ἔνορκον ἂν “ποιησαίμην ὥσπερ, ᾿Αργεῖοι, μὴ πρό- 
τερον κομήσειν, πρὶν ἂν νικήσω ΠῚ 
τὸν Σιμμίου τε καὶ Κέβητος λόγον. ᾿Αλλ᾽, ἣν δ᾽ 
ἐγώ, πρὸς δύο λέγεται οὐδ᾽ ὁ Ἡρακλῆς οἷός τε 
εἶναι. ᾿Αλλὰ καὶ ἐμέ, ἔφη, τὸν ᾿Ιόλεων παρα- 
κάλει, ἕως ἔτι φῶς ἐστιν. Παρακαλῶ τοίνυν, 
ἔφην, οὐχ ὡς Ἡρακλῆς, ἀλλ᾽ ὡς ᾿Ιόλεως. Οὐδὲν 
διοίσει, ἔφη. 

39. ᾿Αλλὰ πρῶτον εὐλαβηθῶμέν τι πάθος μὴ 
πάθωμεν. Τὸ ποῖον; ἦν δ᾽ ἐγώ. Μὴ γενώ- 
μεθα, ἡ δ᾽ ὅς, μισόλογοι, ὥσπερ οἱ μισάνθρω- 
ποι γιγνόμενοι" ὡς οὐκ ἔστιν, ἔφη, ὅ τι ἄν τις 
μεῖζον τούτου κακὸν πάθοι ἢ λόγους μισήσας. 
γίγνεται δὲ ἐκ τοῦ αὐτοῦ τρόπου μισολογία τε καὶ 
μεσανθρωπία. ἥ τε γὰρ μισανθρωπία ἐνδύεται 
ἐκ τοῦ σφόδρα τινὶ πιστεῦσαι ἄνεν τέχνης, καὶ 


308 


PHAEDO 
defeat and made us face about and follow him and 
join in his examination of the argument. 

EcHEcRATES. How did he do it? 

pHAEDO. I will tell you. I was sitting at his right 
hand on a low stool beside his couch, and his seat 
was a good deal higher than mine. He stroked my 
head and gathered the hair on the back of my neck 
into his hand—he had a habit of playing with my 
hair on occasion—and said, “To-morrow, perhaps, 
Phaedo, you will cut off this beautiful hair.” 

“1 suppose so, Socrates,’ said I. 

“ Not if you take my advice.” 

“ What shall I do then?” I asked. 

‘You will cut it off to-day, and I will cut mine, if 
our argument dies and we cannot bring it to life 
again. If I were you and the argument escaped me, 
I would take an oath, like the Argives, not to let my 
hair grow until I had renewed the fight and won a 
victory over the argument of Simmias and Cebes.” 

“ But,” I replied, “they say that even Heracles is 
not a match for two.” 

“Well,” said he, “call me to help you, as your 
folaus, while there is still light.” 

“1 call you to help, then,” said I, “ not as Heracles 
calling Iolaus, but as Iolaus calling Heracles.” 

“That is all one,” said he. “ But first let us guard 
against a danger.” 

«Of what sort?” I asked. 

“The danger of becoming misologists or haters of 
argument,” said he, “as people beeome misanthropists 
or haters of man; for no worse evil can happen to a 
man than to hate argument. Misology and misan- 
thropy arise from similar causes. For misanthropy 
arises from trusting someone implicitly without 


309 


90 


PLATO 


[ / 4 I 3 A .4 φ A 
ἡγήσασθαι παντάπασί τε ἀληθῆ εἶναι και ὑγιῆ 
καὶ πιστὸν τὸν ἄνθρωπον, ἔπειτα ὀλίγον ὕστερον 
n “ ν Ν 
εὑρεῖν τοῦτον πονηρόν τε καὶ ἄπιστον καὶ αὖθις 
“ » alll A / ΄ \ 
Erepov' καὶ ὅταν τοῦτο πολλάκις πάθῃ TIS Kal 
ὑπὸ τούτων μάλιστα Os ἂν ἡγήσαιτο οἰκειοτά- 
A \ 
τους Te καὶ ἑταιροτάτους, τελευτῶν δὴ θαμὰ 
a A δὴ 
προσκρούων μισεῖ τε πάντας καὶ ἡγεῖται οὐδενὸς 
3 @\ e Ν 3 XN , a > Ww \ 
οὐδὲν ὑγιὲς εἶναι τὸ παράπαν. ἢ οὐκ ἤσθησαι σὺ 
a ’ ΄ ΓΙ 950 3» οὖ > A 
τοῦτο γιγνόμενον; Πάνυ γε, ἦν δ᾽ ἐγώ. Οὐκοῦν, 
= 8 id > , 1 \ “ 7 », , 
n ὅς, αἰσχρόν, καὶ δῆλον ὅτι ἄνευ τέχνης 
τῆς περὶ τἀνθρώπεια ὁ τοιοῦτος χρῆσθαι ἐπιχειρεῖ 
τοῖς ἀνθρώποις; εἰ γάρ που μετὰ τέχνης ἐχρῆτο, 
ὥσπερ ἔχει, οὕτως ἂν ἡγήσατο, τοὺς μὲν χρηστοὺς 
καὶ πονηροὺς σφόδρα ὀλίγους εἶναι ἑκατέρους, τοὺς 
\ / fa) 
δὲ μεταξὺ πλείστους. Ilds λέγεις; ἔφην ἐγώ. 
lal “3» Ν 
“Ὥσπερ, ἦ δ᾽ ὅς, περὶ τῶν σφόδρα σμικρῶν καὶ 
4 Ἂ v mi Ge a ὃ 
μεγάλων: οἷει TL σπανιώτερον εἰναι ἢ σφοὸρα 
/ a / A bf “-“ “» a 7 
μέγαν ἢ σφόδρα σμικρὸν ἐξευρεῖν ἀνθρωπον ἢ κύνα 
wn A \ 
ἢ ἄλλο ὁτιοῦν; ἢ av ταχὺν ἢ Bpadvy ἢ αἰσχρὸν 
ἢ καλὸν ἢ λευκὸν ἢ μέλανα; ἢ οὐκ ἤσθησαι 
a Μ Le) 
OTL πάντων τῶν τοιούτων τὰ μὲν ἄκρα τῶν 
» 
ἐσχάτων σπάνια καὶ ὀλίγα, τὰ δὲ μεταξὺ ἄφθονα 
καὶ πολλά; Πάνυ γε, ἣν δ᾽ ἐγώ. Οὐκοῦν οἴει, 
» > ’ ’ \ / , av 3 / 
ἔφη, εἰ πονηρίας ἀγὼν προτεθείη, πάνυ ἂν ολί- 
A ν Ψ n > 7 
yous καὶ ἐνταῦθα τοὺς πρώτους φανῆναι; Ecos 
[4 
γε, ἦν δ᾽ ἐγώ. Εἰκὸς γάρ, ἔφη. ἀλλὰ ταύτῃ 
1 §chanz brackets αἰσχρόν. 
310 


᾿ PHAEDO 

sufficient knowledge. You think the man is per- 
fectly true and sound and trustworthy, and afterwards 
you find him base and false. Then you have the 
same experience with another person. By the time 
this has happened to a man a good many times, 
especially if it happens among those whom he might 
regard as his nearest and dearest friends, he ends by 
being in continual quarrels and by hating everybody 
and thinking there is nothing sound in anyone at all. 
Have you not noticed this?” 

“ Certainly,” said I. 

“Well,” he went on, “is it not disgraceful, and is 
it not plain that such a man undertakes to consort 
with men when he has no knowledge of human 
nature? For if he had knowledge when he dealt 
with them, he would think that the good and the 
bad are both very few and those between the two 
are very many, for that is the case.” 

“ What do you mean?” 

“1 mean just what I might say about the large 
and small. Do you think there is anything more 
unusual than to find a very large or a very small man, 
or dog, or other creature, or again, one that is very 
quick or slow, very ugly or beautiful, very black or 
white? Have you not noticed that the extremes in 
all these instances are rare and few, and the examples 
between the extremes are very many?” : 

“To be sure,’ said I. 

“And don’t you think,” said he, “that if there 
were to be a competition in rascality, those who 
excelled would be very few in that also?”’ 

“ Very likely,” I replied. 

“ Yes, very likely,” he said. “ But it is not in that 


211 


EK 


PLATO 


/ a 
μὲν οὐχ ὅμοιοι οἱ λόγοι τοῖς ἀνθρώποις, ἀλλὰ 
σοῦ νῦν δὴ προάγοντος ἐγὼ ἐφεσπόμην, ἀλλ᾽ 
ἐκείνῃ, ἐπειδάν τις πιστεύσῃ λόγῳ τινὶ ἀληθεῖ 
εἶναι ἄνευ τῆς περὶ τοὺς λόγους Bs ges Ka- 
’ A 
meta ὀλίγον ὕστερον αὐτῷ δόξῃ ψευδὴς εἶναι 
’ +] 
ἐνίοτε μὲν ὦν, ἐνίοτε δ᾽ οὐκ wy, καὶ αὖθις ἕτερος 
καὶ ἕτερος" καὶ μάλιστα δὴ οἱ περὶ τοὺς ἀντι- 
\ ’ » 9 Ὁ. 
λογικοὺς λόγους διατρίψαντες οἶσθ᾽ ὅτι τελευ- 
τῶντες οἴονται σοφώτατοι γεγονέναι τε καὶ 
/ Q κι 
κατανενοηκέναι μόνοι ὅτε οὔτε τῶν πραγμάτων 
᾽ \ > \ e A > A 4 Μ f / 
οὐδενὸς οὐδὲν ὑγιὲς οὐδὲ βέβαιον οὔτε τῶν λόγων, 
ἀλλὰ πάντα τὰ ὄντα ἀτεχνῶς ὥσπερ ἐν Εὐρίπῳ 
ἄνω καὶ κάτω στρέφεται καὶ χρόνον οὐδένα ἐν 
οὐδενὶ μένει. Πάνυ μὲν οὖν, ἔφην ἐγώ, ἀληθῆ 
λέγεις. Οὐκοῦν, ὦ Φαίδων, ἔφη, οἰκτρὸν ἂν εἴη 
\ , > Κν , ἢ a \ 
τὸ πάθος, εἰ ὄντος δή τινος ἀληθοῦς καὶ Be- 
/ A a 
Baiov λόγου καὶ δυνατοῦ κατανοῆσαι, ἔπειτα 
\ ἊΝ / a 
διὰ τὸ παραγίγνεσθαι τοιουτοισὶ λόγοις τοῖς 
αὐτοῖς τοτὲ μὲν δοκοῦσιν ἀληθέσιν εἶναι, τοτὲ δὲ 
\ 4 A a 
μή, μὴ ἑαυτόν τις αἰτιῷτο μηδὲ τὴν ἑαυτοῦ 
> ’ ᾽ \ A \ \ 3 Ὁ Υ̓ 
ἀτεχνίαν, ἀλλὰ τελευτῶν διὰ τὸ ἀλγεῖν ἄσμενος 
, ᾽ a ΄ 
ἐπὶ τοὺς λόγους ἀφ᾽ ἑαυτοῦ τὴν αἰτίαν ἀπώσαιτο 
καὶ ἤδη τὸν λοιπὸν βίον μισῶν τε καὶ λοιδορῶν 
διατελοῖ, τῶν δὲ ὄντων τῆς ἀληθείας τε καὶ 
b] / , \ Ν / > ; 3 ΄ 
ἐπιστήμης στερηθείη.Ό. Νὴ τὸν Δία, ἦν δ᾽ ἐγώ, 
οἰκτρὸν δῆτα. 
a \ / a 
40. Πρῶτον μὲν τοίνυν, ἔφη, τοῦτο εὐλαβη- 
θῶμεν καὶ μὴ παρίωμεν εἰς τὴν ψυχήν, ὡς τῶν 
λόγων κινδυνεύει οὐδὲν ὑγιὲς εἶναι, ἀλλὰ πολὺ 
a “ ς a ” (3 a ” > \ 
μᾶλλον, OTL ἡμεῖς οὔπω υγιῶς ἔχομεν, ἀλλὰ 
ἀνδριστέον καὶ προθυμητέον ὑγιῶς ἔχειν, σοὶ μὲν 
a fol , Ν 
οὖν καὶ τοῖς ἄλλοις καὶ τοῦ ἔπειτα βίου παντὸς 


a1 


Ἶ PHAEDO 


respect that arguments are like men; I was merely 
following your lead in discussing that. The similarity 
lies in this: when a man without proper knowledge 
concerning arguments has confidence in the truth of 
an argument and afterwards thinks that it is false, 
whether it really is so or not, and this happens again 
and again ; then you know, those men especially who 
have spent their time in disputation come to believe 
that they are the wisest of men and that they alone 
have discovered that there is nothing sound or sure 
in anything, whether argument or anything else, but 
all things go up and down, like the tide in the 
Euripus, and nothing is stable for any length of 
time.” 

“ Certainly,” I said, “that is very true.” 

« Then, Phaedo,” he said, “if there is any system of 
argument which is true and sure and can be learned, 
it would be a sad thing if a man, because he has met 
with some of those arguments which seem to be 
sometimes true and sometimes false, should then not 
blame himself or his own lack of skill, but should 
end, in his vexation, by throwing the blame gladly 
upon the arguments and should hate and revile them 
all the rest of his life, and be deprived of the truth 
and knowledge of reality.” 

“ Yes, by Zeus,” I said, “ it would be sad.” 

“First, then,” said he, “let us be on our guard 
against this, and let us not admit into our souls the 
notion that there is no soundness in arguments at all. 
Let us far rather assume that we ourselves are not 
yet in sound condition and that we must strive man- 
fully and eagerly to become so, you and the others 


313 


PLATO 


91 ἕνεκα, ἐμοὶ δὲ αὐτοῦ ἕνεκα τοῦ θανάτου" ὡς 
κινδυνεύω ἔ ἔγωγε ἐν τῷ παρόντι περὶ αὐτοῦ τούτου 
οὐ φιλοσόφως ἔχειν, ἀλλ᾽ ὥσπερ οἱ πάνυ ἀπαί- 
δευτοι φιλονείκως. καὶ γὰρ ἐκεῖνοι ὅταν περί του 
ἀμφισβητῶσιν, ὅπῃ μὲν ἔχει περὶ ὧν ἂν ὁ λόγος 
ἢ οὐ φροντίζουσιν, ὅπως δὲ ἃ αὐτοὶ ἔθεντο 
ταῦτα δόξει τοῖς παροῦσιν, τοῦτο προθυμοῦνται. 
καὶ ἐγώ μοι δοκῶ ἐν τῷ παρόντι τοσοῦτον μόνον 
ἐκείνων διοίσειν: οὐ γὰρ ὅπως τοῖς παροῦσιν ἃ 
ἐγὼ λέγω δόξει ἀληθῆ εἶναι προθυμηθήσομαιε, εἰ 
μὴ εἴη πάρεργον, ἀλλ᾽ ὅπως αὐτῷ ἐμοὶ ὅ τι 

Β μάλιστα δόξει οὕτως ἔχειν. λογίξομαι γάρ, ὦ 
φίλε ἑταῖρε’ θέασαι ὡς πλεονεκτικῶς" εἰ μὲν 
τυγχάνει ἀληθῆ ὄντα ἃ λέγω, καλῶς δὴ ἔχει τὸ 
πεισθῆναι" εἰ δὲ μηδέν ἐστι τελευτήσαντι, ἀλλ᾽ 
οὖν τοῦτόν γε τὸν χρόνον αὐτὸν τὸν πρὸ τοῦ 
θανάτου ἧττον τοῖς παροῦσιν ἀηδὴς ἔσομαι 
ὀδυρόμενος. ἧ δὲ ἄ ἄγνοιά μοι αὕτη οὐ ξυνδιατελεῖ, 
κακὸν γὰρ ἂν ἦν, ἀλλ᾽ ὀλίγον ὕστερον ἀπολεῖ- 
ται. παρεσκευασμένος δή, ἔ ἔφη, ὦ Σιμμία τε καὶ 
Κέβης, οὑτωσὶ ἔρχομαι ἐπὶ τὸν λόγον: ὑμεῖς 

Ο μέντοι, ἂν ἐμοὶ πείθησθε, σμικρὸν φροντίσαντες 
Σωκράτους, τῆς δὲ ἀληθείας πολὺ μᾶλλον, ἐὰν 
μέν TL ὑμῖν δοκῶ ἀληθὲς λέγειν, συνομολογήσατε, 
εἰ δὲ μή, παντὶ λόγῳ ἀντιτείνετε, ὅπως μὴ ἐγὼ 
ὑπὸ “προθυμίας ἅμα ἐμαυτόν τε καὶ ὑμᾶς ἐξα- 
πατήσας ὥσπερ μέλιττα τὸ κέντρον ἐγκαταλιπὼν 
ἐν ἄφιηει 

᾿Αλλ᾽ ἰτέον, ἔφη. πρῶτόν με ὑπομνή- 
σατε ἃ ἐλέγετε, ἐὰν μὴ φαίνωμαι μεμνημένος. 
Σιμμίας μὲν γάρ, ὡς ἐγῴμαι, ἀπιστεῖ τε καὶ 
φοβεῖται, μὴ ἡ ψυχὴ ὅμως καὶ θειότερον καὶ 


314 


PHAEDO 


for the sake of all your future life, and I because of 
my impending death; for I fear that I am not just 
now in a philosophical frame of mind as regards this 
particular question, but am contentious, like quite 
uncultured persons. For when they argue about 
anything, they do not care what the truth is in the 
matters they are discussing, but are eager only to 
make their own views seem true to their hearers. 
And I fancy I differ from them just now only to this 
extent: I shall not be eager to make what I say 
seem true to my hearers, except as a secondary 
matter, but shall be very eager to make myself 
believe it. For see, my friend, how selfish my 
attitude is. If what I say is true, I am the gainer 
by believing it; and if there be nothing for me after 
death, at any rate I shall not be burdensome to my 
friends by my lamentations in these last moments. 
And this ignorance of mine will not last, for that 
would be an evil, but will soon end. So,” he said, 
« Simmias and Cebes, I approach the argument with 
my mind thus prepared. But you, if you do as I 
ask, will give little thought to Socrates and much 
more to the truth; and if you think what I say is 
true, agree to it, and if not, oppose me with every 
argument you can muster, that I may not in my 
eagerness deceive myself and you alike and go away, 
like a bee, leaving my sting sticking in you. 

«But we must get to work,” he said. “ First 
refresh my memory, if I seem to have forgotten any- 
thing. Simmias, I think, has doubts and fears that 
the soul, though more divine and excellent than the 


315 


D 


92 


PLATO 


κάλλιον ὃν τοῦ σώματος προαπολλύηται ἐν 
ἁρμονίας εἴδει οὖσα: Κέβης δέ μοι ἔδοξε τοῦτο 
μὲν ἐμοὶ συγχωρεῖν, πολυχρονιώτερόν γε εἶναι 
ψυχὴν σώματος, ἀλλὰ τόδε ἄδηλον παντί, μὴ 
πολλὰ δὴ σώματα καὶ πολλάκις κατατρίψασα 
ἡ ψυχὴ τὸ τελευταῖον σῶμα καταλιποῦσα νῦν 
αὐτὴ ἀπολλύηται, καὶ ἢ αὐτὸ τοῦτο θάνατος, 
ψυχῆς ὄλεθρος, ἐπεὶ σῶμά γε ἀεὶ ἀπολλύμενον 
οὐδὲν παύεται. ἄρα ἄλλ᾽ ἢ ταῦτ᾽ ἐστίν, ὦ Σιμ- 
μία τε καὶ Κέβης, ἃ δεῖ ἡμᾶς ἐπισκοπεῖσθαι; 
συνωμολογείτην δὴ ταῦτ᾽ εἶναι ἄμφω. Πότερον 
οὖν, ἔφη, πάντας τοὺς ἔμπροσθε λόγους οὐκ 
ἀποδέχεσθε, ἢ τοὺς μέν, τοὺς δ᾽ οὔ; Τοὺς μέν, 
ἐφάτην, τοὺς δ' ov. Τί οὗν, ἢ δ᾽ ὅς, περὶ 
ἐκείνου τοῦ "λόγον λέγετε, ἐν ᾧ ἔφαμεν "τὴν 
μάθησιν ἀνάμνησιν εἶναι, καὶ τούτου οὕτως 
ἔχοντος, ἀναγκαίως ἔχειν ἄλλοθι πρότερον ἡμῶν 
εἶναι τὴν ψυχήν, πρὶν ἐν τῷ σώματι ἐνδεθῆναι; 
γὼ μέν, ἔφη ὁ Κέβης, καὶ τότε θαυμαστῶς 
ὡς ἐπείσθην ὑπ᾽ αὐτοῦ καὶ νῦν ἐμμένω ὡς οὐδενὶ 
λόγῳ. Καὶ μήν, ἔφη ὁ Σιμμίας, καὶ αὐτὸς 
οὕτως ἔχω, καὶ πάνυ ἂν θαυμάζοιμι, εἴ μοι περί 
ye τούτου ἄλλα ποτὲ δόξειεν. καὶ ὁ Σωκράτης" 
᾿Αλλὰ ἀν. ἰγκη σοι, ἔφη, ὦ ξένε Θηβαΐε, ἄλλα 
δοξώσαι, ἐάνπερ μείνη me ἡ οἴησις, τὸ ἁρμονίαν 
μὲν εἶναι σύνθετον πρᾶγμα, ψυχὴν δὲ ἁρμονίαν 
τινὰ ἐκ τῶν κατὰ τὸ σῶμα ἐντεταμένων συγκεῖς- 
σθαι. οὐ γάρ που ἀποδέξει γε σαυτοῦ λέγοντος, 
ὡς πρότερον ἦν ἁρμονία συγκειμένη, πρὶν ἐκεῖνα 
εἶναι, ἐξ ὧν ἔδει αὐτὴν συντεθῆναι. ἢ ἀποδέξει; 
Οὐδαμῶς, ἔφη, ὦ Σώκρατες. Αἰσθάνει οὗν, 

ἣ δ᾽ ὅς, ὅτι ταῦτά σοι συμβαίνει λέγειν, ὅταν 


πε 


PHAEDO 


body, may perish first, being of the nature of a 
harmony. And, Cebes, 1 believe, granted that the 
soul is more lasting than the body, but said that no 
one could know that the soul, after wearing out 
many bodies, did not at last perish itself upon leaving 
the body; and that this was death—the destruction 
of the soul, since the body is continually being 
destroyed. Are those the points, Simmias and Cebes, 
which we must consider δ᾽ 

They both agreed that these were the points. 

“ Now,” said he, “do you reject all of our previous 
arguments, or only some of them?” 

“ Only some of them,” they replied. 

“What do you think,’ he asked, “about the 
argument in which we said that learning is recollec- 
tion and that, since this is so, our soul must necessarily 
have been somewhere before it was imprisoned in 
the body?” 

“J,” said Cebes, “was wonderfully convinced by 
it at the time and I still believe it more firmly than 
any other argument.” 

“ And I too,” said Simmias, “feel just as he does, 
and I should be much surprised if I should ever think 
differently on this point.” 

And Socrates said: “ You must, my Theban friend, 
think differently, if you persist in your opinion that 
a harmony is a compound and that the soul is a 
harmony made up of the elements that are strung 
like harpstrings in the body. For surely you will 
not accept your own statement that a composite 
harmony existed before those things from which it 
had to be composed, will you ?” 

“Certainly not, Socrates.” 

“Then do you see,” said he, “that this is just 


317 


PLATO 


rn Ν 4 Ν. \ \ \ ᾽ ΕῚ 
φῇς μὲν εἶναι τὴν ψυχὴν πρὶν καὶ εἰς ἀν- 
θρώπου εἶδός γε καὶ σῶμα ἀφικέσθαι, εἶναι δὲ 
\ 4 A 
αὐτὴν συγκειμένην ἐκ τῶν οὐδέπω ὄντων; οὐ γὰρ 
/ , ay 
δὴ ἁρμονία γέ σοι τοιοῦτόν ἐστιν ὃ ἀπεικάζξεις, 
3 \ f Ne ze / \ « Ν \ € 
ἀλλὰ πρότερον καὶ ἡ λύρα καὶ ai χορδαὶ καὶ οἱ 
, ») 
φθόγγοι ἔτι ἀνάρμοστοι ὄντες γίγνονται, τελευ- 
ταῖον δὲ πάντων ξυνίσταται ἡ ἁρμονία καὶ πρῶτον 
/ 12 G , a 
ἀπόλλυται. οὗτος οὖν σοι ὁ λόγος ἐκείνῳ πῶς 
ξυνάσεται; Οὐδαμῶς, ἔφη ὁ Σιμμίας. Καὶ μήν, 
Φ > Τὰ / » ἡ a 
ἢ δ᾽ ὅς, πρέπει γε εἴπερ τῳ ἄλλῳ λόγῳ ξυνῳδῷ 
εἶναι καὶ τῷ περὶ ἁρμονίας. Πρέπει γάρ, ἔφη 
ς it 48 / μή \ 3 / 
ὁ Σιμμίας. Οὗτος τοίνυν, ἔφη, σοὶ οὐ ξυνῳδός" 
3 2 ich. / e A a / \ ,ὔ 
ἀλλ᾽ ὅρα, πότερον αἱρεῖ τῶν λόγων, τὴν μάθησιν 
’ / 2 a Ἁ ce ΄ \ a 
ἀνάμνησιν εἶναι ἢ ψυχὴν ἁρμονίαν; Πολὺ par- 
λον, ἔφη, ἐκεῖνον, ὦ Σώκρατες. ὅδε μὲν γάρ 
μοι γέγονεν ἄνευ ἀποδείξεως μετὰ εἰκότος τινὸς 
καὶ εὐπρεπείας, ὅθεν καὶ τοῖς πολλοῖς δοκεῖ 
΄, rn \ a > 
ἀνθρώποις" ἐγὼ δὲ τοῖς διὰ τῶν εἰκότων τὰς 
3 , , , ᾽ὔ gS > 
ἀποδείξεις ποιουμένοις λόγοις ξύνοιδα οὖσιν ἀλα- 
ζόσιν, καὶ ἄν τις αὐτοὺς μὴ φυλάττηται, εὖ 
μάλα ἐξαπατῶσι, καὶ ἐν γεωμετρίᾳ καὶ ἐν τοῖς 
ἄλλοις ἅπασιν. ὁ δὲ περὶ τῆς ἀναμνήσεως καὶ 
μαθήσεως λόγος δι’ ὑποθέσεως ἀξίας ἀποδέξασθαι 
᾿ rire 
εἴρηται. ἐρρήθη γάρ που οὕτως ἡμῶν εἶναι ἡ 
ψυχὴ καὶ πρὶν εἰς σῶμα ἀφικέσθαι, ὥσπερ αὐτὴ 
ἔστιν vB οὐσία ἔχουσα τὴν ἐπωνυμίαν τὴν τοῦ ὃ 
ἔστιν. ἐγὼ δὲ ταύτην, ὡς ἐμαυτὸν πείθω, ἱκανῶς 
τε καὶ ὀρθῶς ἀποδέδεγμαι. ἀνάγκη οὖν μοι, ws 
A 6 / 
ἔοικε, διὰ ταῦτα μήτε ἐμαυτοῦ μήτε ἄλλου 
’ 
ἀποδέχεσθαι λέγοντος, ὡς ψυχή ἐστιν ἁρμονία. 


318 


PHAEDO 


what you say when you assert that the soul exists 
before it enters into the form and body of a man, 
and that it is composed of things that do not yet 
exist? For harmony is not what your comparison 
assumes it to be. The lyre and the strings and the 
sounds come into being in a tuneless condition, and 
the harmony is the last of all to be composed and 
the first to perish. So how can you bring this theory 
into harmony with the other?” 

“TJ cannot at all,’ said Simmias, 

“And yet,’ said Socrates, “there ought to be 
harmony between it and the theory about harmony 
above all others.” 

“Yes, there ought,” said Simmias. 

“ Well,’ said he, “there is no harmony between 
the two theories. Now which do you prefer, that 
knowledge is recollection or that the soul is a har- 
mony?” 

“The former, decidedly, Socrates,’ he replied. 
‘‘ For this other came to me without demonstration ; 
it merely seemed probable and attractive, which is 
the reason why many men hold it. I am conscious 
that those arguments which base their demonstra- 
tions on mere probability are deceptive, and if we 
are not on our guard against them they deceive us 
greatly, in geometry and in all other things. But 
the theory of recollection and knowledge has been 
established by a sound course of argument. For we 
agreed that our soul before it entered into the body 
existed just as the very essence which is called the 
absolute exists. Now I am persuaded that I have 
accepted this essence on sufficient and right grounds. 
I cannot therefore accept from myself or anyone 
else the statement that the soul is a harmony.” 


319 


93 


PLATO 


42. Τί δέ, ἡ δ᾽ ὅς, ὦ Σιμμία, τῇδε; δοκεῖ σοι 
ἁρμονίᾳ ἢ ἄλλῃ τινὶ συνθέσει προσήκειν ἄλλως 
Μ Δ ς A > a ” 5 ? a 
πως ἔχειν ἢ ὡς ἂν ἐκεῖνα ἔχῃ, ἐξ ὧν ἂν συγ- 
κέηται; Οὐδαμῶς. Οὐδὲ μὴν ποιεῖν τι, ὡς 
2 “. ᾽ / 4 Μ 7 ἃ ἡ > A a 
ἐγῴώμαι, οὐδέ TL πάσχειν ἄλλο παρ᾽ ἃ ἂν ἐκεῖνα ἢ 
ποιῇ ἢ πάσχῃ; Συνέφη. Οὐκ ἄρα ἡγεῖσθαί γε 

(2 ς id , 4 Φ a lel 
προσήκει ἁρμονίαν τούτων, ἐξ ὧν ἂν συντεθῇ, 
ἀλλ’ ἕπεσθαι. Συνεδόκε. ἹἸΠολλοῦ ἄρα δεῖ 
ἐναντία γε ἁρμονία κινηθῆναι ἢ φθέγξασθαι ἤ τι 
ἄλλο ἐναντιωθῆναι τοῖς αὑτῆς μέρεσιν. Πολλοῦ 

/ »” 7 / > (oA ς ’ , 
μέντοι, ἔφη. Ti δέ; οὐχ οὕτως ἁρμονία πέφυκεν 
. ¢ , e / (ς A e ~~ 3 
εἶναι ἑκάστη ἁρμονία, ὡς ἂν ἁρμοσθῇ; Ov 
μανθάνω, ἔφη. Οὐχί, 7 δ᾽ ὅς, ἂν μὲν μᾶλλον 
e a \ ea , Μ 5 , a 
ἁρμοσθῇ καὶ ἐπὶ πλέον, εἴπερ ἐνδέχεται τοῦτο 
γίγνεσθαι, μᾶλλόν τε ἂν ἁρμονία εἴη καὶ πλείων, 
3 » φΦ , \ 3: 15 φΦ 4 \ 
εἰ δ᾽ ἧττόν τε καὶ ἐπ᾽ ἔλαττον, ἧττόν τε καὶ 
ἐλάττων; Πάνυ ye. Ἦ οὖν ἔστι τοῦτο περὶ 
ψυχήν, ὥστε καὶ κατὰ τὸ σμικρότατον ἑτέραν 
ἑτέρας ψυχῆς ἐπὶ πλέον καὶ μᾶλλον ἢ ἐπ᾽ 
ΝΜ A Φ be EN “ 9 / 
ἔλαττον καὶ ἧττον αὐτὸ τοῦτο εἶναι, ψυχήν; 
Οὐδ᾽ ὁπωστιοῦν, ἔφη. Φέρε δή, ἔφη, πρὸς Διός" 
λέγεται ψυχὴ ἡ μὲν νοῦν τε ἔχειν καὶ ἀρετὴν 

\ 9 bd / ς \ ΝΥ / 
καὶ εἶναι ἀγαθή, ἡ δὲ ἄνοιάν te καὶ poy- 


220 


PHAEDO 


‘“‘ Here is another way of looking at it, Simmias,” 
said he. “Do you think a harmony or any other 
composite thing can be in any other state than that 
in which the elements are of which it is composed?” 

“ Certainly not.” 

« And it can neither do nor suffer anything other 
than they do or suffer?” 

He agreed. 

«Then a harmony cannot be expected to lead the 
elements of which it is composed, but to follow 
them.” 

He assented. 

“A harmony, then, is quite unable to move or 
make a sound or do anything else that is opposed to 
its component parts.” 

“ Quite unable,” said he. 

‘‘Well then, is not every harmony by nature a 
harmony according as it is harmonised ὃ "ἢ 

“1 do not understand,” said Simmias. 

“Would it not,” said Socrates, “ be more completely 
a harmony and a greater harmony if it were har- 
monised more fully and to a greater extent, assuming 
that to be possible, and less completely a harmony 
and a lesser harmony if less completely harmonised 
and to a less extent?” 

“ Certainly.” 

“15 this true of the soul? Is one soul even in 
the slightest degree more completely and to a greater 
extent a soul than another, or less completely and 
to a less extent ?”’ 

‘Not in the least,”’ said he. 

“ Well now,” said he, “one soul is said to possess 
sense and virtue and to be good, and another to 


421 


94 


PLATO 


Onpiav καὶ εἶναι κακή; καὶ ταῦτα ἀληθῶς 
λέγεται; ᾿Αληθῶς μέντοι. Τῶν οὖν θεμένων 
ψυχὴν ἁρμονίαν εἶναι τί τις φήσει ταῦτα ὄντα 
εἶναι ἐν ταῖς ψυχαῖς, τήν τε ἀρετὴν καὶ τὴν 
κακίαν; πότερον ἁρμονίαν αὖ τινα ἄλλην καὶ 
ἀναρμοστίαν; καὶ τὴν μὲν ἡρμόσθαι, τὴν ἀγαθήν, 
καὶ ἔχειν ἐν αὑτῇ ἁρμονίᾳ οὔσῃ ἄλλην ἁρμονίαν, 
τὴν δὲ ἀνάρμοστον αὐτήν τε εἶναι καὶ οὐκ ἔχειν ἐν 
αὑτῇ ἄλλην; Οὐκ ἔχω ἔγωγ᾽, ἔφη ὁ Σιμμίας, 
εἰπεῖν: δῆλον δ᾽ ὅτι τοιαῦτ᾽ ἄττ᾽ ἂν λέγοι ὁ 
ἐκεῖνο ὑποθέμενος. ᾿Αλλὰ προωμολόγηται, ἔφη, 
μηδὲν μᾶλλον μηδ᾽ ἧττον ἑτέραν ἑτέρας ψυ- 
χὴν ψυχῆς εἶναι" τοῦτο δ᾽ ἔστι τὸ ὁμολόγημα, 
μηδὲν μᾶλλον μηδ᾽ ἐπὶ πλέον μηδ᾽ ἧττον μηδ᾽ 
ἐπ᾿ ἔλαττον ἑτέραν ἑτέρας ἁρμονίαν εἶναι. ἡ 
γάρ; Ildvu γε. Τὴν δέ γε μηδὲν μᾶλλον μηδὲ 
ἧττον ἁρμονίαν οὖσαν μήτε μᾶλλον μήτε ἧττον 
ἡρμόσθαι: ἔστιν οὕτως; "Ἔστιν. Ἣ δὲ μήτε 
μᾶλλον μήτε ἧττον ἡρμοσμένη ἔστιν ὅ τι πλέον 
ἢ ἔλαττον ἁρμονίας μετέχει, ἢ τὸ ἴσον; Τὸ ἴἔ ἴσον. 
Οὐκοῦν ψυχὴ ἐπειδὴ οὐδὲν μᾶλλον οὐδ᾽ ἧττον 
ἄλλη ἄλλης αὐτὸ τοῦτο ψυχή ἐστιν, οὐδὲ δὴ 
μᾶλλον οὐδὲ ἧττον ἥρμοσται; Οὕτω. Τοῦτο δέ 
γε πεπονθυῖα οὐδὲν πλέον ἀναρμοστίας οὐδὲ 
ἁρμονίας μετέχοι a ἄν; Οὐ γὰρ οὗν. Τοῦτο δ᾽ 
αὖ πεπονθυῖα ἄρ᾽ ἄν τι πλέον κακίας ἢ ἀρετῆς 
μετέχοι ἑτέρα ἑτέρας, εἴπερ ἡ μὲν κακία ἀναρ- 
μοστία, ἡ δὲ ἀρετὴ ἁρμονία εἴη; Οὐδὲν πλέον. 
Μᾶλλον δέ γέ που, ὦ ἐμμία, κατὰ τὸν ὀρθὸν 
λόγον κακίας οὐδεμία ψυχὴ μεθέξει, εἴπερ ap- 


322 


PHAEDO 


possess folly and wickedness and to be bad; and is 
this true?” “ Yes, it is true.” 

« Now what will those who assume that the soul is 
a harmony say that these things—the virtue and the 
wickedness—in the soul are? Will they say that 
this is another kind of harmony and a discord, and 
that the soul, which is itself a harmony, has within 
it another harmony and that the other soul is dis- 
cordant and has no other harmony within it?” 

“1 cannot tell,” replied Simmias, “but evidently 
those who make that assumption would say some- 
thing of that sort.” 

« But we agreed,” said Socrates, “ that one soul is 
no more or less a soul than another; and that is 
equivalent to an agreement that one is no more and 
to no greater extent, and no less and to no less extent, 
a harmony than another, is it ποὺ δ᾿ “ Certainly.” 

«And that which is no more or less a harmony, is 
no more or less harmonised. Is that so?” “ Yes.” 

« But has that which is no more and no less har- 
monised any greater or any less amount of harmony, 
or an equal amount?”’ An equal amount.” 

«“ Then asoul, since it is neither more nor less a soul 
than another, is neither more nor less harmonised.” 

Phatiisiso.* 

«And therefore can have no greater amount of 
discord or of harmony?” “No.” 

- And therefore again one soul can have no greater 
amount of wickedness or virtue than another, if 
wickedness is discord and virtue harmony?” “It 
cannot.” 

« Or rather, to speak exactly, Simmias, no soul wili 
have any wickedness at all, if the soul is a harmony ; 


323 


PLATO 


΄ > , δ᾿ ’ὔ \ (A ~ > \ 
μονία ἐστίν: ἁρμονία yap δήπου παντελῶς αὐτὸ 
τοῦτο οὖσα ἁρμονία ἀναρμοστίας οὔποτ᾽ ἂν 
΄, , 
μετάσχοι. Οὐ μέντοι. Οὐδέ γε δήπον Ψυχή, 
2 “ , , a \ » 
οὗσα παντελῶς ψυχή, κακίας. Πῶς γὰρ ἔκ 
“ ἣν ? ΄ a 
γε τῶν προειρημένων; ‘Ex τούτου ἄρα τοῦ λόγου 
΄ A A \ ε , 
ἡμῖν πᾶσαι ψυχαὶ πάντων ζῴων ὁμοίως ἀγαθαὶ 
» », « A 
ἐσονται, εἴπερ ὁμοίως πεφύκασιν αὐτὸ τοῦτο, 
’ Φ ΜΠμὃἃ ὃ a ΩΣ ᾶ4 τ ΄, 
ψυχαί, εἰναι. “Kpouye δοκεῖ, ἔφη, ὦ Σώκρατες. 
3 nr ΄-“ [χ4 
H καὶ καλῶς δοκεῖ, 7 δ᾽ ὅς, οὕτω λέγεσθαι, 
\ , A r G , 3 > \ e ig ΄ 
καὶ πάσχειν ἂν ταῦτα ὁ λόγος, εἰ ὀρθὴ ἡ ὑπό- 
= \ id “ 3 >>> e 
Gears ἦν, TO ψυχὴν ἁρμονίαν εἶναι; Οὐδ᾽ ὁπω- 
στιοῦν, ἔφη. 
As “Μ 
48. Τί δέ; ἦ 8 ὅς: τῶν ἐν ἀνθρώπῳ πάν- 
> w. 
tov ἔσθ᾽ 6 τι ἄλλο λέγεις ἄρχειν ἢ ψυχὴν 
» , ΕΣ 
ἄλλως τε καὶ φρόνιμον; Οὐκ ἔγωγε. Πότερον 
συγχωροῦσαν! τοῖς κατὰ τὸ σῶμα πάθεσιν ἢ καὶ" 
/ , \ Ν ΄ φΦ ΄ὔ 
ἐναντιουμένην; λέγω δὲ τὸ τοιόνδε, οἷον" καύματος 
3 / Ν / 3 \ ᾽ ’ XN \ 
ἐνόντος καὶ δίψους ἐπὶ τοὐναντίον ἕλκειν, TO μὴ 
γ . / / \ \ \ “ 
πίνειν, καὶ πείνης ἐνούσης ἐπὶ τὸ μὴ ἐσθίειν, καὶ 
vw / ¢e a fe Ν \ 
ἄλλα μυρία που ὁρῶμεν ἐναντιουμένην τὴν Ψυχὴν 
a \ Ν a \ 
τοῖς κατὰ τὸ σῶμα' ἢ οὔ; Πάνυ μὲν οὗν. 
- a , 4 
Οὐκοῦν αὖ ὡμολογήσαμεν ἐν τοῖς πρόσθεν μή- 
, , 
ToT ἂν αὐτήν, ἁρμονίαν γε οὖσαν, ἐναντία 
Vv 2 ΄ \ a δ ΄ 
ἄδειν οἷς ἐπιτείνοιτο καὶ χαλῷτο καὶ πάλλοιτο 
" \ ” « a) / Ψ Ε a ? Φ 
καὶ ἄλλο ὁτιοῦν πάθος πάσχοι ἐκεῖνα ἐξ ὧν 
7, > ? 3. es, ᾽ / \ Μ 9 
τυγχάνει οὖσα, ἀλλ᾽ ἕπεσθαι ἐκείνοις καὶ οὔποτ 


1 Schanz brackets συγχωροῦσαν. 
ὁ Schanz omits ἢ καὶ. 


* οἷο» Stobaeus. ὡσεὶ CDE, bracketed by Schanz. 
324 


PHAEDO 


for if a harmony is entirely harmony, 1t could have 
no part in discord.” 

“ Certainly not.” 

“ Then the soul, being entirely soul, could have no 
part in wickedness.’ 

« How could it, if what we have said is right?”’ 

“ According to this argument, then, if all souls are 
by nature equally souls, all souls of all living creatures 
will be equally good.” 

“So it seems, Socrates,” said he. 

« And,’ said Socrates, “do you think that this is 
true and that our reasoning would have come to this 
end, if the theory that the soul is a harmony were 
correct?” 

“ Not in the least,” he replied. 

“ Well,” said Socrates, “ of all the parts that make 
up a man, do you think any is ruler except the soul, 
especially if it be a wise one?” 

‘No, ldo not.” 

“Does it yield to the feelings of the body or 
oppose them? I mean, when the body is hot and 
thirsty, does not the soul oppose it and draw it away 
from drinking, and from eating when it is hungry, 
and do we not see the soul opposing the body in 
countless other ways?” 

ἐς Certainly.” 

“ Did we not agree in our previous discussion that 
it could never, if it be a harmony, give forth a sound 
at variance with the tensions and relaxations and 
vibrations and other conditions of the elements which 
compose it, but that it would follow them and never 
lead them?” 


325 


95 


PLATO 


ἂν ἡγεμονεύειν; Ὥμολογήσαμεν, ἔφη" πῶς yap 
οὔ; Τί οὖν; νῦν οὐ πᾶν τοὐναντίον ἡμῖν dai- 
νεται ἐργαζομένη, ἡγεμονεύουσά τε ἐκείνων 
πάντων ἐξ ὦ ὧν φησί τις αὐτὴν εἶναι, καὶ ἐναντιου- 
μένη ὀλίγου πάντα διὰ παντὸς τοῦ βίου καὶ 
δεσπόζουσα πάντας τρόπους, τὰ μὲν χαλεπώτερον 
κολάξουσα καὶ μετ᾽ ἀλγηδόνων, τά τε κατὰ τὴν 
γυμναστικὴν καὶ τὴν ἰατρικήν, τὰ δὲ πραύότερον, 
καὶ τὰ μὲν ἀπειλοῦσα, τὰ δὲ νουθετοῦσα, ταῖς 
ἐπιθυμίαις καὶ ὀργαῖς καὶ φόβοις ὡς ἄλλη οὖσα 
ἄλλῳ πράγματι διαλεγομένη; οἷόν που καὶ 
Ὅμηρος ἐν ᾿Οδυσσείᾳ πεποίηκεν, οὗ λέγει τὸν 
‘Odvacéa’ 


στῆθος δὲ πλήξας κραδίην ἠνίπαπε μύθῳ: 
τέτλαθι δή, κραδίη: καὶ κύντερον ἄλλο ποτ᾽ 
ἔτλης. 


dip’ οἴει αὐτὸν ταῦτα ποιῆσαι διανοούμενον ὡς 
ἁρμονίας αὐτῆς οὔσης καὶ οἵας ἄγεσθαι ὑ ὑπὸ τῶν 
τοῦ σώματος παθῶν, ἀλλ᾽ οὐχ οἵας ἄγειν τε 
ταῦτα καὶ δεσπόξειν, καὶ οὔσης αὐτῆς πολὺ 
θειοτέρου τινὸς πράγματος ἢ καθ᾽ ἁρμονίαν; 
Νὴ Δία, ὧ Σώκρατες, ἔμοιγε δοκεῖ. Οὐκ ἄρα, 
ὦ ἄριστε, ἡμῖν οὐδαμῇ καλῶς ἔχει ψυχὴν 
ἁρμονίαν τινὰ φάναι εἶναι: οὔτε γὰρ ἄν, ὡς 
ἔοικεν, Ὁμήρῳ θείῳ ποιητῇ ὁμολογοῖμεν οὔτε 
αὐτοὶ ἡμῖν αὐτοῖς. Ἔχειν οὕτως ἔφη. 

44. Kiev δή, 7 ὃ ὺς ὦ Σωκράτης, τὰ μὲν 
᾿Αρμονίας ἡμῖν τῆς Θηβαϊκῆς ἵλεά πως, ὡς ἔοικε, 
μετρίως γέγονεν: τί δὲ δὴ τὰ Κάδμου, ἔφη, ὦ 


426 


PHAEDO 


“Yes,” he replied, “ we did, of course.” 

“ Well then, do we not now find that the soul acts 
in exactly the opposite way, leading those elements of 
which it is said to consist and opposing them in 
almost everything through all our life, and tyrannising 
over them in every way, sometimes inflicting harsh 
and painful punishments (those of gymnastics and 
medicine), and sometimes milder ones, sometimes 
threatening and sometimes admonishing, in short, 
speaking to the desires and passions and fears as if 
it were distinct from them and they from it, as 
Homer has shown in the Odyssey! when he says of 
Odysseus : 


He smote his breast, and thus he chid his heart : 
‘Endure it, heart, thou didst bear worse than this’ ? 


Do you suppose that, when he wrote those words, he 
thought of the soul as a harmony which would be led 
by the conditions of the body, and not rather as 
something fitted to lead and rule them, and itself a 
far more divine thing than a harmony?” 

“ By Zeus, Socrates, the latter, I think.” 

“Then, my good friend, it will never do for us to 
say that the soul is a harmony; for we should, it 
seems, agree neither with Homer, the divine poet, 
nor with ourselves.” 

“That is true,” said he. 

“Very well,” said Socrates, “Harmonia, the 
Theban goddess, has, it seems, been moderately 


1 Odyssey xx, 17,18. Bryant’s translation. 
327 


ΡΙΑΤΟ 


Κέβης, πῶς ἱλασόμεθα καὶ tim λόγῳ; Σὺ μοι 
δοκεῖς, ἔφη ὁ Κέβης, ἐξευρήσειν: τουτονὶ γοῦν 
τὸν λόγον τὸν πρὸς τὴν ἁρμονίαν θαυμαστῶς μοι 
εἶπες ὡς παρὰ δόξαν. Σιμμίου γὰρ λέγοντος ὅ τι 
ἠπόρει, πάνυ ἐθαύμαζον, εἴ τι ἕξει τις χρήσασθαι 
τῷ λόγῳ αὐτοῦ: πάνυ μὲν οὖν μοι ἀτόπως ἔδοξεν 
εὐθὺς τὴν πρώτην ἔφοδον οὐ δέξασθαι: τοῦ σοῦ 
λόγου. ταὐτὰ δὴ οὐκ ἂν θαυμάσαιμι καὶ τὸν 
τοῦ Κάδμου λόγον εἰ πάθοι. *O. ᾿γαθέ, ἔφη ὁ 
Σωκράτης, μὴ μέγα͵ λέγε, μή τις ἡμῶν βασκανία 
πε ριτρέψῃ τὸν λόγον τὸν μέλλοντα ἔσεσθαι." 
ἀλλὰ δὴ ταῦτα μὲν τῷ θεῷ μελήσει, ἡμεῖς δὲ 
Ὁμηρικῶς ἐγγὺς ἰόντες πειρώμεθα, εἰ ἄρα τι 
λέγεις. ἔστι δὲ δὴ τὸ κεφάλαιον ὧν ἕητεῖς: 
ἀξιοῖς ἐπιδειχθῆναι ἡμῶν τὴν ψυχὴν ἀνώλεθρόν 
τε καὶ ἀθάνατον οὖσαν, εἰ φιλόσοφος , ἀνὴρ 
μέλλων ἀποθανεῖσθαι, θαρρῶν τε καὶ ἡγούμενος 
ἀποθανὼν ἐκεῖ εὖ πράξειν διαφερόντως ἢ εἰ ἐν 
ἄλλῳ βίῳ βιοὺς ἐτελεύτα, μὴ ἀνόητόν τε καὶ 
ἠλίθιον θάρρος θαρρήσει. τὸ δὲ ἀποφαίνειν, ὅτι 
ἰσχυρόν τί ἐστιν ἡ ψυχὴ καὶ θεοειδὲς καὶ ἣν ἔτι 
πρότερον, πρὶν ἡμᾶς ἀνθρώπους γενέσθαι, οὐδὲν 
κωλύειν nS πάντα ταῦτα μηνύειν ἀθανασίαν μὲν 
μή, ὅτε δὲ πολυχρόνιόν τέ ἐστιν ψυχὴ καὶ ἦν που 
πρότερον ἀμήχανον ὅσον χρόνον καὶ ἤδει τε καὶ 
ἔπραττεν πολλὰ ἄττα" ἀλλὰ γὰρ οὐδέν τι μᾶλλον 
ἣν ἀθάνατον, ἀλλὰ καὶ αὐτὸ τὸ εἰς ἀνθρώπου 
σῶμα ἐλθεῖν ἀρχὴ ἣν αὐτῇ ὀλέθρου, ὥσπερ νόσος: 
καὶ ταλαιπωρουμένη τε δὴ τοῦτον τὸν βίον ζῴη 
καὶ τελευτῶσά γε ἐν τῷ καλουμένῳ θανάτῳ 


} §chanz, following Hermann, brackets ἔσεσθαι. 


328 


PHAEDO 


gracious to us; but how, Cebes, and by what 
argument can we find grace in the sight of Cadmus?”’ 

“1 think,” said Cebes, “ you will find a way. At 
any rate, you conducted this argument against 
harmony wonderfully and better than I expected. 
For when Simmias was telling of his difficulty, I 
wondered if anyone could make head against his 
argument; so it seemed to me very remarkable that 
it could not withstand the first attack of your 
argument. Now I should not be surprised if the 
argument of Cadmus met with the same fate. 

“My friend,’ said Socrates, “do not be boastful, 
lest some evil eye put to rout the argument that is 
to come. That, however, is in the hands of God. 
Let us, in Homeric fashion, ‘ charge the foe’ and test 
the worth of what you say. Now the sum total of 
what you seek is this: You demand a proof that our 
soul is indestructible and immortal, if the philosopher, 
who is confident in the face of death and who thinks 
that after death he will fare better in the other 
world than if he had lived his life differently, is not 
to find his confidence senseless and foolish. And 
although we show that the soul is strong and godlike 
and existed before we men were born as men, all 
this, you say, may bear witness not to immortality, 
but only to the fact that the soul lasts a long while, 
and existed somewhere an immeasurably long time 
before our birth, and knew and did various things; 
yet it was none the more immortal for all that, but 
its very entrance into the human body was the 
beginning of its dissolution, a disease, as it were; 
and it lives in toil through this life and _ finally 


329 


96 


PLATO 


ἀπολλύοιτο. διαφέρειν! δὲ δὴ dys οὐδέν, εἴτε 
ἅπαξ εἰς σῶμα ἔρχεται εἴτε πολλάκις, πρός γε τὸ 
ἕκαστον ἡμῶν φοβεῖσθαι: προσήκειν" γὰρ φοβεῖ- 
σθαι, εἰ μὴ ἀνόητος εἴη, τῷ μὴ εἰδότι μηδὲ ἔ ἔχοντι 
λόγον διδόναι, ὡς ἀθάνατόν ἐστι. τοιαῦτ᾽ ἄττα 
ἐστίν, οἶμαι, ὦ Κέβης, ἃ λέγεις: καὶ ἐξεπίτηδες 
πολλάκις ἀναλαμβάνω, ἵνα μή τι διαφύγῃ ἡμᾶς, 
εἴ τέ τι βούλει, προσθῇς ἢ ἀφέλῃς. καὶ ὁ Κέβης: 
᾿Αλλ᾽ οὐδὲν ἔγωγε ἐν τῷ παρόντι, ἔφη, οὔτε 
ἀφελεῖν οὔτε προσθεῖναι δέομαι: ἔστι δὲ ταῦτα, ἃ 
λέγω. 

45. Ὁ οὖν Σωκράτης συχνὸν χρόνον ἐπισχὼν 
καὶ πρὸς ἑαυτόν τι σκεψάμενος, Οὐ φαῦλον 
πρᾶγμα, ἔφη, ὦ Κέβης, ζητεῖς" ὅλως γὰρ δεῖ 
περὶ γενέσεως καὶ φθορᾶς τὴν αἰτίαν διαπραγ- 
ματεύσασθαι. ἐγὼ οὖν σοι δίειμι περὶ αὐτῶν, 
ἐὰν βούλῃ, τά γε ἐμὰ πάθη: ἔπειτα ἄν τί σοι 
χρήσιμον φαίνηται ὧν ἂν λέγω, πρὸς τὴν πειθὼ 
περὶ ὧν λέγεις χρήσει. ᾿Αλλὰ μήν, ἐφη 0 
Κέβης, βούλομαί γε. “Axove τοίνυν ὡς ἐροῦν- 
τος. ἐγὼ γάρ, ἔφη, ὦ “Κέβης, νέος ὧν θαυμα- 
στῶς ὡς ἐπεθύμησα ταύτης τῆς σοφίας, ἣν δὴ 
καλοῦσι περὶ φύσεως ἱστορίαν. ὑπερήφανος γάρ 
μοι ἐδόκει εἶναι, εἰδέναι τὰς αἰτίας ἑ ἑκάστου, διὰ τί 
γίγνεται ἕκαστον καὶ διὰ τί ἀπόλλυται καὶ διὰ τί 
ἔστι" καὶ πολλάκις ἐμαυτὸν ἄνω κάτω μετέβαλ- 
λον σκοπῶν “πρῶτον τὰ τοιάδε, ap ἐπειδὰν τὸ 
θερμὸν καὶ τὸ ψυχρὸν σηπεδόνα τινὰ λάβῃ, ὥς 

1 Schanz reads διαφέρει. 

2 Schanz reads προσήκει. 


8 τὸ θερμὸν καὶ τὸ ψυχρὸν Eb Stobaeus. τὸ θερμὸν καὶ ψυ- 
χρὸν BD, Schanz brackets ψυχρὸν. 


33° 


PHAEDO 


perishes in what we call death. Now it makes no 
difference, you say, whether a soul enters into a 
body once or many times, so far as the fear each of 
us feels is concerned ; for anyone, unless he is a fool, 
must fear, if he does not know and cannot prove 
that the soul is immortal. That, Cebes, is, I think, 
about what you mean. And 1 restate it purposely 
that nothing may escape us and that you may, if you 
wish, add or take away anything.” 

And Cebes said, “I do not at present wish to take 
anything away or to add anything. You have 
expressed my meaning.” 

Socrates paused for some time and was absorbed 
in thought. Then he said: “It is no small thing 
that you seek ; for the cause of generation and decay 
must be completely investigated. Now I will tell 
you my own experience in the matter, if you wish ; 
then if anything I say seems to you to be of any 
use, you can employ it for the solution of your 
difficulty.” 

“ Certainly,’ said Cebes, “I wish to hear your 
experiences. ” 

“ Listen then, and I will tell you. When I was 
young, Cebes, I was tremendously eager for the kind 
of wisdom which they call investigation of nature. 
I thought it was a glorious thing to know the causes 
of everything, why each thing comes into being and 
why it perishes and why it exists; and I was always 
unsettling myself with such questions as these: Do 
heat and cold, by a sort of fermentation, bring about 
the organisation of animals, as some people say? Is 


331 


PLATO 


τινες ἔλεγον, τότε δὴ τὰ ζῷα συντρέφεται' Kai 
πότερον τὸ αἷμά ἐστιν ᾧ φρονοῦμεν, ἢ ὁ ἀὴρ ἢ τὸ 
πῦρ, ἢ τούτων μὲν οὐδέν, ὁ δ᾽ ἐγκέφαλός ἐστιν ὁ 
τὰς αἰσθήσεις παρέχων τοῦ ἀκούειν καὶ ὁρᾶν καὶ 
ὀσφραίνεσθαι, ἐκ τούτων δὲ γίγνοιτο μνήμη καὶ 
δόξα, ἐκ δὲ μνήμης καὶ δόξης λαβούσης τὸ ἠρεμεῖν 
κατὰ ταῦτα γίγνεσθαι ἐπιστήμην" καὶ αὖ τούτων 
τὰς φθορὰς σκοπῶν, καὶ τὰ περὶ τὸν οὐρανὸν καὶ 
τὴν γῆν πάθη, τελευτῶν οὕτως ἐμαυτῷ ἔδοξα πρὸς 
ταύτην τὴν σκέψιν ἀφυὴς εἶναι, ὡς οὐδὲν χρῆμα. 
τεκμήριον δέ σοι ἐρῶ ἱκανόν: ἐγὼ γὰρ ἃ καὶ 
πρότερον σαφῶς ἠπιστάμην, ὥς γε ἐμαυτῷ καὶ 
τοῖς ἄλλοις ἐδόκουν, τότε ὑπὸ ταύτης τῆς σκέψεως 
οὕτω σφόδρα ἐτυφλώθην, ὥστε ἀπέμαθον καὶ ἃ 
πρὸ τοῦ ὦμην εἰδέναι, περὶ ἄλλων τε πολλῶν καὶ 
διὰ τί ἄνθρωπος αὐξάνεται. τοῦτο γὰρ ὥμην πρὸ 
τοῦ παντὶ δῆλον. εἶναι, ὅτι διὰ τὸ ἐσθίειν καὶ 
πίνειν' ἐπειδὰν γὰρ ἐκ τῶν σιτίων ταῖς μὲν σαρξὶ 
σάρκες προσγένωνται, τοῖς δὲ ὀστέοις ὀστᾶ, καὶ 
οὕτω κατὰ τὸν αὐτὸν λόγον καὶ τοῖς ἄλλοις τὰ 
αὐτῶν οἰκεῖα ἑκάστοις προσγένηται, τότε δὴ τὸν 
ὀλίγον ὄγκον ὄντα ὕστερον πολὺν γεγονέναι, καὶ. 
οὕτω γίγνεσθαι τὸν σμικρὸν ἄνθρωπον μέγαν' 
οὕτως τότε μην" οὐ δοκῶ σοι μετρίως; ἜἜμοιγε, 
ἔφη ὁ Κέβης. Σκέψαι δὴ καὶ τάδε ἔτι. ὠμην 
γὰρ ἱκανῶς μοι δοκεῖν, ὁπότε τις φαίνοιτο ἄνθρω- 
πος παραστὰς μέγας σμικρῷ μείζων εἶναι αὐτῇ τῇ 
κεφαλῇ, καὶ ἵππος ἵππου: καὶ ἔτι. γε τούτων 
ἐναργέστερα, τὰ δέκα μοι ἐδόκει τῶν ὀκτὼ πλέονα 
εἶναι διὰ τὸ δύο αὐτοῖς προσθεῖναι, καὶ τὸ δίπηχυ 
τοῦ πηχυαίου μεῖζον εἶναι διὰ τὸ ἡμίσει αὐτοῦ 
ὑπερέχειν. Νῦν δὲ δή, ἔφη ὁ Κέβης, τί σοι 


332 


PHAEDO 


it the blood, or air, or fire by which we think? Or 
is it none of these, and does the brain furnish the 
sensations of hearing and sight and smell, and do 
memory and opinion arise from these, and does 
knowledge come from memory and opinion in a state 
of rest? And again I tried to find out how these 
things perish, and I investigated the phenomena of 
heaven and earth until finally I made up my mind that 
I was by nature totally unfitted for this kind of in- 
vestigation. And I will give you a sufficient proof of 
this. I was socompletely blinded by these studies 
that I lost the knowledge that I, and others also, 
thought I had before ; I forgot what I had formerly 
believed I knew about many things and even about the 
cause of man’s growth. For I had thought previously 
that it was plain to everyone that man grows through 
eating and drinking; for when, from the food he 
eats, flesh is added to his flesh and bones to his bones, 
and in the same way the appropriate thing is added 
to each of his other parts, then the small bulk 
becomes greater and the small man large. That is 
what I used to think. Doesn’t that seem to you 
reasonable?” 

“Yes,” said Cebes. 

“ Now listen to this, too. I thought I was sure 
enough, when I saw a tall man standing by a short 
one, that he was, say, taller by a head than the other, 
and that one horse was larger by a head than another 
horse; and, to mention still clearer things than those, 
1 thought ten were more than eight because two had 
been added to the eight, and I thought a two-cubit 
rule was longer than a one-cubit rule because it 
exceeded it by half its length.” 

“And now,” said Cebes, “what do you think 
about them ?” 


333 


97 


PLATO 


δοκεῖ περὶ αὐτῶν; Tloppw που, ἔφη, νὴ Δία 
ἐμὲ εἶναι τοῦ οἴεσθαι περὶ τούτων του τὴν αἰτίαν 
εἰδέναι, ὅς γε οὐκ ἀποδέχομαι ἐμαυτοῦ οὐδὲ ὡς, 
ἐπειδὰν ἑνί τις προσθῇ ἕν, ἢ τὸ ἕν ᾧ προσετέθη 
δύο γέγονεν, ἢ τὸ προστεθέν, ἢ τὸ προστεθὲν καὶ 
ᾧ προσετέθη διὰ τὴν πρόσθεσιν τοῦ ἑτέρου τῷ 
ἑτέρῳ δύο ἐγένετο" θαυμάζω γάρ, εἰ, ὅτε μὲν 
ἑκάτερον αὐτῶν χωρὶς ἀλλήλων ἦν, ἕν ἄρα 
ἑκάτερον ἦν καὶ οὐκ ἤστην τότε δύο, ἐπεὶ δ᾽ 
ἐπλησίασαν ἀλλήλοις, αὕτη ἄρα αἰτία αὐτοῖς 
ἐγένετο δύο γενέσθαι, ἡ ξύνοδος τοῦ πλησίον 
ἀλλήλων “τεθῆναι. οὐδέ γε ὡς, ἐάν τίς ἕν διασχίσῃ, 
δύναμαι ἔ ἔτι πείθεσθαι ὡς αὕτη αὖ αἰτία γέγονεν, 
ἡ σχίσις, τοῦ δύο γεγονέναι" ἐναντία γὰρ γίγνεται 
ἢ τότε αἰτία τοῦ δύο γίγνεσθαι: τότε μὲν γὰρ ὅτι 
συνήγετο πλησίον ἀλλήλων καὶ προσετίθετο 
ἕτερον ἑτέρῳ, νῦν δ᾽ ὅτι ἀπάγεται καὶ ,χωρίξεται 
ἕτερον ἀφ᾽ ἑτέρου. οὐδέ γε, δι᾽ ὅ τι ἕν γίγνεται 
ὡς ἐπίσταμαι ἔ ἔτι πείθω ἐ ἐμαυτόν, οὐδ᾽ ἄλλο οὐδὲν 
ἑνὶ λόγῳ δι᾿ ὅ Tt γίγνεται ἢ ἀπόλλυται ἢ ἔστι, 
κατὰ τοῦτον τὸν τρόπον τῆς μεθόδου, ἀλλά τιν᾽ 
ἄχλον τρόπον αὐτὸς εἰκῇ φύρω, τοῦτον δὲ οὐδαμῇ 
προσίεμαι. 

46. “AAN ἀκούσας μέν ποτε ἐκ βιβλίου τινός, 
ὡς ἔφη, ᾿Αναξαγόρου ἀναγιγνώσκοντος, καὶ 
λέγοντος ὡς ἄρα νοῦς ἐστιν ὁ διακοσμῶν τε καὶ 
πάντων αἴτιος, ταύτῃ δὴ τῇ αἰτίᾳ ἥσθην τε καὶ 
ἔδοξέ μοι πρόπον τινὰ εὖ ἔχειν τὸ τὸν νοῦν εἶναι 
πάντων αἴτιον, καὶ ἡγησάμην, εἰ τοῦθ᾽ οὕτως ἔχει, 
τόν γε νοῦν κοσμοῦντα πάντα κοσμεῖν. καὶ ἕκα- 


1 Schanz brackets κοσμεῖν. 


334 


PHAEDO 


“ By Zeus,” said he, “I am far from thinking that I 
know the cause of any of these things, I who do not 
even dare to say, when one is added to one, whether 
the one to which the addition was made has become 
two, or the one which was added, or the one which 
was added and the one to which it was added be- 
came two by the addition of each to the other. I 
think it is wonderful that when each of them was 
separate from the other, each was one and they were 
not then two, and when they were brought near 
each other this juxtaposition was the cause of their 
becoming two. And I cannot yet believe that if one 
is divided, the division causes it to become two; for 
this is the opposite of the cause which produced two 
in the former case; for then two arose because one 
was brought near and added to another one, and 
now because one is removed and separated from 
another. And I no longer believe that I know by 
this method even how one is generated or, in a 
word, how anything is generated or is destroyed or 
exists, and I no longer admit this method, but have 
another confused way of my own. 

“Then one day I heard a man reading from a book, 
as he said, by Anaxagoras, that it is the mind that 
arranges and causes all things. I was pleased with 
this theory of cause, and it seemed to me to be some- 
how right that the mind should be the cause of all 
things, and I thought, ‘If this is so, the mind in 
arranging things arranges everything and establishes 


335 


98 


PLATO 


στον τιθέναι ταύτῃ ὅπῃ ἂν βέλτιστα ἔχη" εἰ οὖν 
τις βούλοιτο τὴν αἰτίαν εὑρεῖν περὶ ἑκάστου, ὅπῃ 
γίγνεται ἢ ἀπόλλυται ἢ ἔστι, τοῦτο δεῖν περὶ 
αὐτοῦ εὑρεῖν, ὅπῃ βέλτιστον αὐτῷ ἐστιν ἢ εἶναι ἢ 
ἄλλο ὁτιοῦν πάσχειν ἢ ποιεῖν. ἐκ δὲ δὴ τοῦ 
λόγου τούτου οὐδὲν ἄλλο σκοπεῖν προσήκειν ἀν- 
θρώπῳ καὶ περὶ αὐτοῦ καὶ περὶ ἄλλων, ἀλλ᾽ ἢ 
τὸ ἄριστον καὶ τὸ βέλτιστον. ἀναγκαῖον δὲ εἶναι 
τὸν αὐτὸν τοῦτον καὶ τὸ χεῖρον εἰδέναι: τὴν αὐτὴν 
γὰρ εἶναι ἐπιστήμην περὶ αὐτῶν. ταῦτα δὴ 
λογιζόμενος ἄσμενος “εὑρηκέναι ῴμην διδάσκαλον 
\ 
τῆς αἰτίας περὶ τῶν ὄντων κατὰ νοῦν ἐμαυτῷ, τὸν 
᾿Αναξαγόραν, καί μοι φράσειν πρῶτον μέν, πό- 
τερον ἡ γῆ πλατεῖά ἐστιν ἢ στρογγύλη, ἐπειδὴ δὲ 
φράσειεν, ἐπεκδιηγήσεσθαι τὴν αἰτίαν καὶ τὴν 
ἀνάγκην, λέγοντα τὸ ἄμεινον καὶ ὅτι αὐτὴν 
ἄμεινον ἦν τοιαύτην εἶναι" καὶ εἰ ἐν μέσῳ φαίη 
εἶναι αὐτήν, ἐπεκδιηγήσεσθαι ὡς ἄμεινον ἦν 
αὐτὴν ἐν μέσῳ εἶναι: καὶ εἴ μοι ταῦτα ἀπο- 
φαίνοιτο, παρεσκευάσμην ὡς οὐκέτι ᾿ποθεσόμενος 
αἰτίας ἄλλο εἶδος. καὶ δὴ καὶ περὶ ἡλίου οὕτω 
παρεσκευάσμην, ὡσαύτως πευσόμενος, καὶ “σελήνης 
καὶ τῶν ἄχλων ἄστρων, τάχους τε πέρι πρὸς 
ἄλληλα καὶ τροπῶν καὶ τῶν ἄλλων παθημάτων, 
πῇ ποτε ταῦτ᾽ ἄμεινόν ἐστιν ἕκαστον καὶ ποιεῖν 
καὶ πάσχειν ἃ πάσχει. οὐ γὰρ ἄν ποτε αὐτὸν 
μην, φάσκοντά γε ὑπὸ νοῦ αὐτὰ κεκοσμῆσθαι, 
ἄλλην τινὰ αὐτοῖς αἰτίαν ἐπενεγκεῖν ἢ ὅτι 
βέλτιστον αὐτὰ οὕτως ἔχειν ἐστὶν ὥσπερ ἔχει" 
ἑκάστῳ οὖν αὐτὸν ἀποδιδόντα τὴν αἰτίαν καὶ 


1 αὐτοῦ ἐκείνου BCDE. Schanz brackets αὐτοῦ. Wohlrab 
omits ἐκείνον and reads αὑτοῦ. Burnet brackets ἐκείνου. 


336 


PHAEDO 


each thing as it is best for it to be. So if anyone 
wishes to find the cause of the generation or destruc- 
tion or existence of a particular thing, he must find 
out what sort of existence, or passive state of any 
kind, or activity is best for it. And therefore in 
respect to that particular thing, and other things too, 
a man need examine nothing but what is best and 
most excellent; for then he will necessarily know 
also what is inferior, since the science of both is the 
same.’ As I considered these things I was delighted 
to think that I had found in Anaxagoras a teacher of 
the cause of things quite to my mind, and I thought 
he would tell me whether the earth is flat or round, 
and when he had told me that, would go on to 
explain the cause and the necessity of it, and would 
tell me the nature of the best and why it is best for 
the earth to be as it is; and if he said the earth was 
in the centre, he would proceed to show that it is 
best for it to be in the centre; and I had made up 
my mind that if he made those things clear to me, 
I would no longer yearn for any other kind of cause. 
And I had determined that I would find out in the 
same way about the sun and the moon and the other 
stars, their relative speed, their revolutions, and their 
other changes, and why the active or passive con- 
dition of each of them is for the best. For I never 
imagined that, when he said they were ordered by 
intelligence, he would introduce any other cause for 
these things than that it is best for them to be as 
they are. So 1 thought when he assigned the cause 


337 


PLATO 


κοινῇ πᾶσι τὸ ἑκάστῳ βέλτιστον ὥμην Kal τὸ 
κοινὸν πᾶσιν ἐπεκδιηγήσεσθαι ἀγαθόν" καὶ οὐκ ἂν 
ἀπεδόμην πολλοῦ τὰς ἐλπίδας, ἀλλὰ πάνυ σπουδῇ 
λαβὼν τὰς βίβλους ὡς τάχιστα οἷός T ἡ ἀνε- 
γίγνωσκον, iv ὡς τάχιστα εἰδείην τὸ βέλτιστον 
καὶ τὸ χεῖρον. 

41. ᾿Απὸ δὴ θαυμαστῆς ἐλπίδος, ὦ ἑταῖρε, 
ὠχόμην φερόμενος, ἐπειδὴ προϊὼν kal} ἀναγιγνώ- 
σκων ὁρῶ ἄνδρα τῷ “μὲν νῷ οὐδὲν χρώμενον οὐδέ 
TWAS αἰτίας “ἐπαιτιώμενον εἰς τὸ διακοσμεῖν τὰ 
πράγματα, ἀέρας δὲ καὶ αἰθέ ας καὶ ὕδατα αἰτιώ- 
μενον καὶ ἄλλα πολλὰ καὶ ἄτοπα. καί μοι ἔδοξεν 
ὁμοιότατον πεπονθέναι ὥσπερ ἂν εἴ τις λέγων 
ὅτι Σωκράτης πάντα ὅσα πράττει νῷ πράττει, 
κἄπειτα ἐπιχειρήσας “λέγειν τὰς αἰτίας ἑκάστων 
ὧν πράττω, λέγοι πρῶτον μὲν ὅτι διὰ ταῦτα νῦν 
ἐνθάδε κάθημαι, ὅ ὅτι σύγκειταί μου τὸ σῶμα ἐξ 
ὀστέων καὶ νεύρων, καὶ τὰ μὲν ὀστᾶ ἐστιν στερεὰ 
καὶ διαφυὰς ἔχει χωρὶς ἀπ᾽ ἀλλήλων, τὰ δὲ νεῦρα 
οἷα ἐπιτείνεσθαι καὶ ἀνίεσθαι, περιαμπέχοντα τὰ 
ὀστᾶ μετὰ τῶν σαρκῶν καὶ “δέρματος ὃ ὃ συνέχει 
αὐτά" αἰωρουμένων οὖν τῶν ὀστέων ἐν ταῖς αὑτῶν 
ξυμβολαῖς χαλῶντα κ καὶ συντείνοντα τὰ νεῦρα 
κάμπτεσθαι που ποιεῖ οἷόν τ᾽ εἶναι ἐμὲ νῦν τὰ 
μέλη, καὶ διὰ ταύτην τὴν αἰτίαν συγκαμφθεὶς 
ἐνθάδε κάθημαι: καὶ αὖ περὶ τοῦ διαλέγεσθαι ὑ ὑμῖν 
ἑτέρας τοιαύτας αἰτίας λέγοι, φωνάς τε καὶ ἀέρας 
καὶ ἀκοὰς καὶ ἄλλα μυρία τοιαῦτα αἰτιώμενος, 
ἀμελήσας τὰς ὡς ἀληθῶς αἰτίας λέγειν ὅτι, 
ἐπειδὴ ᾿Αθηναίοις ἔδοξε βέλτιον εἶναι ἐμοῦ 
καταψηφίσασθαι, διὰ ταῦτα δὴ καὶ ἐμοὶ βέλτιον 

1 Schanz brackets καὶ. 


333 


PHAEDO 


of each thing and of all things in common he would 
go on and explain what is best for each and what is 
good for all in common. I prized my hopes very 
highly, and I seized the books very eagerly and read 
them as fast as I could, that I might know as fast as 
I could about the best and the worst. 

« My glorious hope, my friend, was quickly snatched 
away from me. As I went on with my reading I saw 
that the man made no use of intelligence, and did 
not assign any real causes for the ordering of things, 
but mentioned as causes air and ether and water and 
many other absurdities. And it seemed to me it was 
very much as if one should say that Socrates does 
with intelligence whatever he does, and then, in 
trying to give the causes of the particular thing I do, 
should say first that I am now sitting here because 
my body is composed of bones and sinews, and the 
bones are hard and have joints which divide them 
and the sinews can be contracted and relaxed and, 
with the flesh and the skin which contains them all, 
are laid about the bones; and so, as the bones are 
hung loose in their ligaments, the sinews, by relaxing 
and contracting, make me able to bend my limbs 
now, and that is the cause of my sitting here with 
my legs bent. Or as if in the same way he should 
give voice and air and hearing and countless other 
things of the sort as causes for our talking with each 
other, and should fail to mention the real causes, 
which are, that the Athenians decided that it was 
best to condemn me, and therefore I have decided 


339 


99 


PLATO 


av δέδοκται ἐνθάδε καθῆσθαι, καὶ δικαιότερον 
παραμένοντα ὑπέχειν τὴν δίκην ἣν ἂν “κελεύσωσιν' 
ἐπεὶ νὴ τὸν κύνα, ὡς ἐγώμαι, πάλαι ἂν ταῦτα τὰ 
νεῦρά τε καὶ τὰ ὀστᾶ ἢ περὶ Μέγαρα ἢ Βοιωτοὺς 
ἦν, ὑπὸ δόξης φερόμενα τοῦ βελτίστον, εἰ μὴ 
ικαιότερον ᾧμην καὶ κάλλιον εἶναι πρὸ τοῦ 
panes τε καὶ ἀποδιδράσκειν ὑπέχειν τῇ πόλει 
ίκην ἥντιν᾽ ἂν τάττῃ. GAN αἴτια μὲν τὰ τοιαῦτα 
καλεῖν λίαν ἄτοπον" εἰ δέ τις λέγοι ὅτι ἄνευ τοῦ 
τὰ τοιαῦτα ἔχειν καὶ ὁ ὀστᾶ καὶ νεῦρα καὶ ὅσα ἄλλα 
ἔχω, οὐκ ἂν οἷός T ἦν ποιεῖν τὰ δόξαντά μοι, 
ἀληθῆ ἃ ἂν λέγοι: ὡς μέντοι διὰ ταῦτα ποιῶ ἃ ποιῶ 
καὶ ταῦτα νῷ πράττω, ἀλλ᾽ οὐ τῇ τοῦ βελτίστου 
αἱρέσει, πολλὴ καὶ μακρὰ ῥᾳθυμία ἂν εἴη τοῦ 
λόγου. τὸ γὰρ μὴ διελέσθαι, οἷόν τ᾽ εἶναι ὅτι 
ἄλλο μέν τί ἐστι τὸ αἴτιον τῷ ὄντι, ἄλλο δὲ 
ἐκεῖνο ἄνευ οὗ τὸ αἴτιον οὐκ ἂν ποτ᾽ εἴη αἴτιον" ὃ 
δή μοι φαίνονται ψηλαφῶντες οἱ πολλοὶ ὥσπερ 
ἐν σκότει, ἀλλοτρίῳ ὀνόματι προσχρώμενοι, ὡς 
αἴτιον αὐτὸ προσαγορεύειν. διὸ δὴ καὶ ὁ μέν TLS 
δίνην περιτιθεὶς τῇ γῇ ὑπὸ τοῦ οὐρανοῦ μένειν δὴ 
ποιεῖ τὴν γῆν, ὁ δὲ ὥσπερ, Kapoor πλατείᾳ 
βάθρον τὸν ἀέρα ὑπερείδει" τὴν δὲ τοῦ ὡς οἷόν τε 
βέλτιστα αὐτὰ τεθῆναι δύναμιν οὕτω νῦν κεῖσθαι, 
ταύτην οὔτε ζητοῦσιν οὔτε τινὰ οἴονται δαιμονίαν 
ἰσχὺν ἔχειν, ἀλλὰ ἡγοῦνται τούτου ἼΑτλαντα ἄν 
ποτε ἰσχυρότερον καὶ ἀθανατώτερον καὶ μᾶχλον 
ἅπαντα συνέχοντα ἐξευρεῖν, καὶ ὡς “ἀληθῶς τὸ 
ἀγαθὸν καὶ δέον ξυνδεῖν καὶ ,συνέχειν οὐδὲν 
οἴονται. ἐγὼ fe οὖν τῆς τοιαύτης αἰτίας, “ὅπῃ 
ποτὲ ἔχει, μαθ ητὴς ὁτουοῦν ἥδιστ᾽ ἂν γενοίμην' 
ἐπειδὴ as ταύτης ἐστερήθην καὶ οὔτ᾽ αὐτὸς εὑρεῖν 


340 


PHAEDO 


that it was best for me to sit here and that it is right 
for me to stay and undergo whatever penalty they 
order. For, by the Dog, I fancy these bones and 
sinews of mine would have been in Megara or Boeotia 
long ago, carried thither by an opinion of what was 
best, if I did not think it was better and nobler to 
endure any penalty the city may inflict rather than to 
escape and run away. But it is most absurd to call 
things of that sort causes. If anyone were to say that 
I could not have done what I thought proper if I had 
not bones and sinews and other things that I have, he 
would be right. But to say that those things are the 
cause of my doing what I do, and that I act with 
intelligence but not from the choice of what is best, 
would be an extremely careless way of talking. Who- 
ever talks in that way is unable to make a distinction 
and to see that in reality a cause is one thing, and 
the thing without which the cause could never be a 
cause is quite another thing. And so it seems to me 
that most people, when they give the name of cause 
to the latter, are groping in the dark, as it were, and 
are giving it a name that does not belong toit. And 
so one man makes the earth stay below the heavens by 
putting a vortex about it, and another regards the earth 
asa flat trough supported on a foundation of air; but 
they do not look for the power which causes things 
to be now placed as it is best for them to be placed, 
nor do they think it has any divine force, but they 
think they can find a new Atlas more powerful and 
more immortal and more all-embracing than this, and 
in truth they give no thought to the good, which 
must embrace and hold together all things. Now 1 
would gladly be the pupil of anyone who would 
teach me the nature of such a cause; but since that 


341 


100 


PLATO 


οὔτε map ἄλλου μαθεῖν οἷός te ἐγενομην, τὸν 
δεύτερον πλοῦν ἐπὶ τὴν τῆς αἰτίας ζήτησιν ἡ 
πεπραγμάτευμαι, βούλει σοι, ἔφη, ἐπίδειξιν 
ποιήσωμαι, ὦ Κέβης; Ὑπερφυῶς μὲν οὖν, ἔφη, 
ὡς βούλομαι. 

48. "Εδοξε τοίνυν μοι, 7 δ᾽ ὅς, μετὰ ταῦτα, 
ἐπειδὴ ἀπείρηκα τὰ ὄντα σκοπῶν, δεῖν εὐλαβη- 
θῆναι, μὴ πάθοιμι ὅπερ οἱ τὸν ἥλιον ἐκλείποντα 

εωροῦντες καὶ σκοπούμενοι" διαφθείρονται γάρ 

που ἔνιοι τὰ “ὄμματα, ἐὰν μὴ ἐν ὕδατι ἤ τινι 
τοιούτῳ σκοπῶνται τὴν εἰκόνα αὐτοῦ. τοιοῦτόν 
τί καὶ ἐγὼ διενοήθην, καὶ ἔδεισα, μὴ παντάπασι 
τὴν ψυχὴν τυφλωθείην βλέπων πρὸς τὰ πράγ- 
ματα τοῖς ὄμμασι καὶ ἑκάστῃ τῶν αἰσθήσεων 
ἐπιχειρῶν ἅπτεσθαι αὐτῶν. ἔδοξε δή μοι χρῆναι 
εἰς τοὺς λόγους καταφυγόντα ἐν ἐκείνοις σκοπεῖν 
τῶν ὄντων τὴν ἀλήθειαν. ἴσως μὲν οὖν ᾧ εἰκάξω 
τρόπον τινὰ οὐκ ἔοικεν. οὐ γὰρ πάνυ συγχωρῶ 
τὸν ἐν τοῖς λόγοις σκοπούμενον τὰ ὄντα ἐν εἰκόσι 
μᾶλλον σκοπεῖν ἢ τὸν ἐν τοῖς ἔργοις" ἀλλ᾽ οὖν δὴ 
ταύτῃ γε ὥρμησα, καὶ ὑποθέμενος ἑ ἑκάστοτε λόγον 
ὃν ἂν κρίνω ἐρρωμενέστατον εἶναι, ἃ μὲν ἄν μοι 
δοκῇ τούτῳ συμφωνεῖν, τίθημι ὡς ἀληθῆ ὄντα, 
καὶ περὶ αἰτίας καὶ περὶ τῶν ἄλλων ἁπάντων 
τῶν ὄντων, ἃ δ᾽ ἂν μή, ὡς οὐκ ἀληθῆ. βούλομαι 
δέ σοι σαφέστερον εἰπεῖν ἃ λέγω: οἶμαι γάρ σε 
νῦν οὐ μανθάνειν. Οὐ μὰ τὸν Δία, ἔφη ὁ Κέβης, 
οὐ σφόδρα. 

49. ᾿Αλλ᾽, ἡ δ᾽ ὅς, ὧδε λέγω, οὐδὲν καινόν, 
ἀλλ᾽ ἅπερ ἀεὶ καὶ ἄλλοτε καὶ ἐν τῷ παρεληλυθότι 
λόγῳ οὐδὲν πέπαυμαι λέγων. ἔρχομαι γὰρ δὴ 
ἐπιχειρῶν σοι ἐπιδείξασθαι τῆς αἰτίας τὸ εἶδος ὃ 


342 


PHAEDO 


was denied me and I was not able to discover it 
myself or to learn of it from anyone else, do you 
wish me, Cebes,” said he, “to give you an account of 
the way in which I have conducted my second 
voyage in quest of the cause?” 

“41 wish it with all my heart,” he replied. 

< After this, then,” said he, “since I had given up 
investigating realities, I decided that I must be 
careful not to suffer the misfortune which happens to 
people who lock at the sun and watch it during an 
eclipse. For some of them ruin their eyes unless 
they look at its image in water or something of the 
sort. I thought of that danger, and I was afraid my 
soul would be blinded if I looked at things with my 
eyes and tried to grasp them with any of my senses. 
So I thought I must have recourse to conceptions 
and examine in them the truth of realities. Now 
perhaps my metaphor is not quite accurate ; for I do 
not grant in the least that he who studies realities by 
means of conceptions is looking at them in images 
any more than he who studies them in the facts of 
daily life. However, that is the way I began. | 
assume in each case some principle which I consider 
strongest, and whatever seems to me to agree with this, 
whether relating to cause or to anything else, I regard 
as true, and whatever disagrees with it, as untrue. 
But I want to tell you more clearly what I mean; 
for I think you do not understand now.” 

“Not very well, certainly,” said Cebes. 

“Well,” said Socrates, “this is what I mean. It 
is nothing new, but the same thing I have always 
been saying, both in our previous conversation and 
elsewhere. I am going to try to explain to you the 
nature of that cause which I have been studying, 


343 


PLATO 


πεπραγμάτευμαι, καὶ εἶμι πάλιν ἐπ᾽ ἐκεῖνα τὰ 
πολυθρύλητα καὶ ἄρχομαι ἀπ᾽ ἐκείνων, ὑποθέ- 
μενος εἶναί τι καλὸν αὐτὸ καθ᾽ αὑτὸ καὶ ἀγαθὸν 
καὶ μέγα καὶ τἄλλα πάντα: ἃ εἴ μοι δίδως τε 
καὶ συγχωρεῖς εἶναι ταῦτα, ἐλπίζω σοι ἐκ τού- 
των τὴν αἰτίαν ἐπιδείξειν καὶ ἀνευρήσειν, ὡς 
ἀθάνατον ἡ ψυχή. ᾿Αλλὰ μήν, ἔφη ὁ Κέβης, 
ὡς διδόντος σοι οὐκ ἂν φθάνοις περαίνων. 
Σκόπει δή, ἔφη, τὰ ἑξῆς ἐκείνοις, ἐάν σοι 
ξυνδοκῇ ὥσπερ ἐμοί. φαίνεται γάρ μοι, εἴ τί 
ἐστιν ἄλλο καλὸν πλὴν αὐτὸ τὸ καλόν, οὐδὲ 
δι’ ἕν ἄλλο καλὸν εἶναι ἢ διότι μετέχει ἐκείνου 
τοῦ καλοῦ" καὶ πάντα δὴ οὕτως λέγω. τῇ 
τοιᾷδε αἰτίᾳ συγχωρεῖς; Συγχωρῶ, ἔφη. Οὐ 
τοίνυν, ἢ δ᾽ ὅς, ἔτι μανθάνω οὐδὲ δύναμαι τὰς 
ἄλλας αἰτίας τὰς σοφὰς ταύτας γιγνώσκειν: ἀλλ᾽ 
ἐάν τίς μοι λέγῃ, δι᾿ ὅ τι καλόν ἐστιν ὁτιοῦν, ἢ 
χρῶμα εὐανθὲς ἐ ἔχον ἢ σχῆμα ἢ ἄλλο ὁτιοῦν τῶν 
τοιούτων, τὰ μὲν ἄλλα χαίρειν ἐῶ, ταράττομαι 
γὰρ ἐν τοῖς ἄλλοις πᾶσι, τοῦτο δὲ ἁπλῶς καὶ 
ἀτέχνως καὶ ἴσως εὐήθως ἔχω παρ᾽ ἐμαυτῷ, ὅτι 
οὐκ ἄλλο τι ποιεῖ αὐτὸ καλὸν ἢ, ἡ ἐκείνου τοῦ 
καλοῦ εἴτε παρουσία εἴτε. κοινωνία ὅπῃ δὴ καὶ 
ὅπως προσγενομένη" οὐ γὰρ ἔτι τοῦτο διισχυρί- 
Comat, ἀλλ᾽ ὅτι τῷ καλῷ πάντα τὰ καλὰ γίγνεται 
καλά. τοῦτο γάρ μοι δοκεῖ ἀσφαλέστατον εἶναι 
καὶ ἐμαυτῷ ἀποκρίνασθαι καὶ ἄλλῳ, καὶ τούτου 
ἐχόμενος ἡγοῦμαι, οὐκ av ποτε πεσεῖν, ἀλλ᾽ 
ἀσφαλὲς εἶναι καὶ ἐμοὶ καὶ ὁτῳοῦν ἄλλῳ ἀπο- 
κρίνασθαι, ὅτε τῷ καλῷ τὰ καλὰ καλά: ὴ οὐ 
καὶ σοὶ δοκεῖ; Ἀσκεῖοελεϊζ αὲ μεγέθει ἄρα τὰ 


344 


PHAEDO 


and I will revert to those familiar subjects of ours as 
my point of departure and assume that there are 
such things as absolute beauty and good and great- 
ness and the like. If you grant this and agree that 
these exist, I believe I shall explain cause to you and 
shall prove that the soul is immortal.” 

“You may assume,” said Cebes, “that I grant it, 
and go on.” 

“Then,” said he, “see if you agree with me in the 
next step. I think that if anything is beautiful besides 
absolute beauty it is beautiful for no other reason than 
because it partakes of absolute beauty; and this applics 
to everything. Do you assent to this view of cause?”’ 

“J do,” said he. 

“Now I do not yet, understand,’ he went on, 
“nor can I perceive those other ingenious causes. If 
anyone tells me that what makes a thing beautiful 
is its lovely colour, or its shape or anything else of 
the sort, I let all that go, for all those things confuse 
me, and I hold simply and plainly and perhaps 
foolishly to this, that nothing else makes it beautiful 
but the presence or communion (call it which you 
please) of absolute beauty, however it may have 
been gained ; about the way in which it happens, I 
make no positive statement as yet, but I do insist 
that beautiful things are made beautiful by beauty. 
For I think this is the safest answer I can give to 
myself or to others, and if I cleave fast to this, I 
think I shall never be overthrown, and I believe it 
is safe for me or anyone else to give this answer, 
that beautiful things are beautiful through beauty. 
Do you agree?” 

“ido.” 

“And great things are great and greater things 


345 


101 


PLATO 


/ ΄ \ Ν ΄ῳω ΄ A f 
μεγάλα μεγάλα καὶ Ta μείζω μείζω, καὶ σμικρό- 
τητι τὰ ἐλάττω ἐλάττω; Ναί. Οὐδὲ σὺ ap’ ἂν ἀπο- 

/ Μ ’ / 4 e , A “- 
δέχοιο, εἴ τίς τινα φαίη ἕτερον ἑτέρου τῇ κεφαλῇ 
\ / lol An 
μείζω εἶναι, Kal τὸν ἐλάττω τῷ αὐτῷ τούτῳ 
ἐλάττω, ἀλλὰ διαμαρτύροιο ἄν, ὅτι σὺ μὲν οὐδὲν 
” 4 a “ \ “A ~ (4 Le a 
ἄλλο λέγεις ἢ OTL TO μεῖζον πᾶν ἕτερον ἑτέρου 
al , 
οὐδενὶ ἄλλῳ μεῖζόν ἐστιν ἢ μεγέθει, καὶ διὰ 
a a \ \ / \ \ Υγ' 
τοῦτο μεῖζον, διὰ τὸ μέγεθος, τὸ δὲ ἔλαττον 
οὐδενὶ ἄλλῳ ἔλαττον ἢ σμικρότητι, καὶ διὰ 
an ’ 
τοῦτο ἔλαττον, διὰ τὴν σμικρότητα, φοβούμενος 
΄ ΄ 
οἶμαι, μή τίς σοι ἐναντίος λόγος ἀπαντήσῃ, ἐὰν 
aA a“ vA tA - “4 \ ΄ 
τῇ κεφαλῃ" μείζονά τινα φῆς εἶναι καὶ ἐλάττω, 
nm nm A xX “ a 
πρῶτον μὲν τῷ αὐτῷ τὸ μεῖζον μεῖζον εἶναι καὶ 
NZ Ὡς » Μ A“ A A 
TO ἔλαττον ENATTOV, ἔπειτα TH κεφαλῇ σμικρᾷ 
,ὔ a 
οὔσῃ Tov μείζω μείζω εἶναι, καὶ τοῦτο δὴ τέρας 
a , \ - 
εἶναι, τὸ σμικρῷ τινι μέγαν τινὰ εἶναι" ἢ οὐκ ἂν 

a fal \ ¢ J , » 

φοβοῖο ταῦτα; Καὶ ὁ Κέβης γελάσας" "ἔγωγε, 
a ¢ Ν ~ “ 
ἔφη. Οὐκοῦν, ἣ δ᾽ ὅς, τὰ δέκα τῶν ὀκτὼ δυοῖν 

/ 2 \ \ , \ Tee ς 
πλείω εἶναι, καὶ διὰ ταύτην τὴν αἰτίαν ὑπερ- 

΄ a“ ’ \ \ 
βάλλειν, φοβοῖο ἂν λέγειν, ἀλλὰ μὴ πλήθει Kal 
“-“ Ἂς 4 a 
διὰ τὸ πλῆθος; καὶ τὸ δίπηχυ τοῦ πηχυαίου 
εἶν Ξ 4 > sf ») , ¢ Υ AK , 
ἡμίσει μεῖζον εἶναι, ἀλλ᾽ ov μεγέθει; ὁ αὐτὸς yap 
͵ὔ ᾽ ww / 
mov φόβος. Ilavu γ᾽, ἔφη. Τί δέ; ai ἑνὸς 
A , ς ΕΝ ὦ 4 la) 
προστεθέντος τὴν πρόσθεσιν αἰτίαν εἶναι τοῦ δύο 

,ὔ a ὃ θέ \ 7ὔ > ’ 
γενέσθαι ἢ διασχισθέντος THY σχίσιν οὐκ εὐλα- 
βοῖο ἂν λέγειν; καὶ μέγα ἂν βοῴης ὅτι οὐκ 

οὐ MEU bey (01) 
wv ΄σ , A \ 
οἶσθα ἄλλως πως ἕκαστον γιγνόμενον ἢ μετασχὸν 
a PAK ἂν 
τῆς ἰδίας οὐσίας ἑκάστου οὗ ἂν μετάσχῃ, καὶ ἐν 
346 


PHAEDO 


greater by greatness, and smaller things smaller by 


smallness ?”’ 
“ Yes,” 


“ And you would not accept the statement, if you 
were told that one man was greater or smaller than 
another by a head, but you would insist that you say 
only that every greater thing is greater than another 
by nothing else than greatness, and that it is greater 
by reason of greatness, and that which is smaller is 
smaller by nothing else than smallness and is smaller 
by reason of smallness. For you would, I think, be 
afraid of meeting with the retort, if you said that a 
man was greater or smaller than another by a head, 
first that the greater is greater and the smaller is 
smaller by the same thing, and secondly, that the 
greater man is greater by a head, which is small, and 
that it is a monstrous thing that one is great by 
something that is small. Would you not be afraid 
of this?” 

And Cebes laughed and said, “ Yes, I should.” 

“Then,” he continued, “you would be afraid to 
say that ten is more than eight by two and that this 
is the reason it is more. You would say it is more 
by number and by reason of number; and ἃ two- 
cubit measure is greater than a one- cubit measure 
not by half but by magnitude, would you not? ΕῸΓ 
you would have the same fear.” 

“Certainly,” said he. 

“ Well, then, if one is added to one or if one is 
divided, you would avoid saying that the addition or 
the division is the cause of two? You would exclaim 
loudly that you know no other way by which any- 
thing can come into existence than by participating 
in the proper essence of each thing in which it 


347 


PLATO 


τούτοις οὐκ ἔχεις ἄλλην τινὰ αἰτίαν τοῦ δύο 
γενέσθαι arr ἢ τὴν τῆς δυάδος μετάσχεσιν, καὶ 
δεῖν τούτου μετασχεῖν τὰ μέλλοντα δύο ἔσεσθαι, 
καὶ μονάδος ὃ ἂν μέλλῃ ἕν ἔσεσθαι, τὰς δὲ σχίσεις 
ταύτας καὶ προσθέσεις καὶ τὰς ἄλλας τὰς 
τοιαύτας κομψείας ἐῴης ἂν χαίρειν, παρεὶς ἀπο- 
κρίνασθαι τοῖς σεαυτοῦ σοφωτέροις" σὺ δὲ δεδιὼς 
ἄν, τὸ λεγόμενον, τὴν σεαυτοῦ σκιὰν καὶ τὴν 
ἀπειρίαν, ἐχόμενος ἐκείνου τοῦ ἀσφαλοῦς τῆς 
ὑποθέσεως, οὕτως ἀποκρίναιο ἄν; εἰ δέ τις αὐτῆς 
τῆς ὑποθέσεως ἔφοιτο, χαίρειν ἐῴης ἂν καὶ οὐκ 
ἀποκρίναιο, ἕως ἂν τὰ ἀπ᾽ ἐκείνης ὁρμηθέντα 
σκέψαιο, εἴ σοι ἀλλήλοις συμφωνεῖ ἢ διαφωνεῖ: 
ἐπειδὴ δὲ ἐκείνης αὐτῆς δέοι σε διδόναι λόγον, 
ὡσαύτως ἂν διδοίης, ἄλλην αὖ ὑπόθεσιν ὑποθέ- 
μενος, ἥτις τῶν ἄνωθεν βελτίστη φαίνοιτο, ἕως 
ἐπί τι ἱκανὸν ἔλθοις, ἅ ἅμα δὲ οὐκ ἂν φύροιο ὥσπερ 
οἱ ᾿ ἀντιλογικοὶ περί τε τῆς ἀρχῆς διαλεγόμενος καὶ 
τῶν ἐξ ἐκείνης ὡρμημένων, εἴπερ βούλοιό τι τῶν 
ὄντων εὑρεῖν. ἐκείνοις μὲν yap i ἴσως οὐδὲ εἷς περὶ 
τούτου λόγος οὐδὲ φροντίς: ἱκανοὶ γὰρ ὑπὸ σοφίας 
ὁμοῦ πάντα κυκῶντες ὅμως “δύνασθαι. αὐτοὶ 
αὑτοῖς ἀρέσκειν' σὺ δ᾽ εἴπερ εἶ τῶν φιλοσόφων, 
οἶμαι ἂν ὡς ἐγὼ λέγω ποιοῖς. ᾿Αληθέστατα, 
ἔφη, λέγεις, ὅ τε Σιμμίας ἅμα καὶ ὁ Κέβης. 

ΕΧΕΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Νὴ Δία, ὦ Φαίδων, εἰκότως γε" θαυ- 
μαστῶς γάρ pot δοκεῖ ὡς ἐναργῶς τῷ καὶ σμικρὸν 
νοῦν ἔχοντι εἰπεῖν ἐκεῖνος ταῦτα. 

ΦΑΙΔΩΝ. Πάνυ μὲν οὖν, ὦ ᾿ΕἸχέκρατες, καὶ πᾶσι 
τοῖς παροῦσιν ἔδοξεν. 


1 Schanz follows Hirschig in bracketing δύνασθαι. 


348 


PHAEDO 


participates, and therefore you accept no other cause 
of the existence of two than participation in duality, 
and things which are to be two must participate in 
duality, and whatever is to be one must participate 
in unity, and you would pay no attention to the 
divisions and additions and other such subtleties, 
leaving those for wiser men to explain. You would 
distrust your inexperience and would be afraid, as the 
saying goes, of your own shadow ; 50 you would cling 
to that safe principle of ours and would reply as I 
have said. And if anyone attacked the principle, 
you would pay him no attention and you would not 
reply to him until you had examined the con- 
sequences to see whether they agreed with one 
another or not; and when you had to give an 
explanation of the principle, you would give it in the 
same way by assuming some other principle which 
seemed to you the best of the higher ones, and so on 
until you reached one which was adequate. You 
would not mix things up, as disputants do, in talking 
about the beginning and its consequences, if you 
wished to discover any of the realities; for perhaps 
not one of them thinks or cares in the least about 
these things. They are so clever that they succeed 
in being well pleased with themselves even when 
they mix everything up; but if you are a philosopher, 
I think you will do as I have said.” 

“That is true,” said Simmias and Cebes together. 

ecuEcrATEs. By Zeus, Phaedo, they were right. 
It seems to me that he made those matters astonish- 
ingly clear, to anyone with even a little sense. 

PHAEDO. Certainly, Echecrates, and all who were 
there thought so, too. 


340 


PLATO 


EXEKPATHS. Kal yap ἡμῖν τοῖς ἀποῦσι, νῦν δὲ 
ἀκούουσιν. ἀλλὰ τίνα δὴ ἦν τὰ μετὰ ταῦτα 
λεχθέντα; 

50. ΦΑΙΔΩΝ. Ὥς μὲν ἐγὼ οἶμαι, ἐπεὶ αὐτῷ 
ταῦτα συνεχωρήθη, καὶ ὡμολογεῖτο εἶναί τι 
ἕκαστον τῶν εἰδῶν καὶ τούτων τἄλλα μεταλαμ- 
βάνοντα αὐτῶν τούτων τὴν ἐπωνυμίαν ἴσχειν, τὸ 
δὴ μετὰ ταῦτα ἠρώτα' Ei δή, 4 δ᾽ ὅς, ταῦτα 
οὕτως λέγεις, ap οὐχ, ὅταν Σιμμίαν Σωκράτους 
φῆς μείζω εἶναι, Φαίδωνος δὲ ἐλάττω, λέγεις TOT 
εἶναι ἐν τῷ Σιμμίᾳ ἀμφότερα, καὶ μέγεθος καὶ 
σμικρότητα; “Eywye. ᾿Αλλὰ γάρ, δ᾽ ὅς, 
ὁμολογεῖς τὸ τὸν Σιμμίαν ὑπερέχειν Σωκράτους 
οὐχ ὡς τοῖς ῥήμασι λέγεται οὕτω καὶ τὸ ἀληθὲς 
ἔχειν. οὐ γάρ που πεφυκέναι Σιμμίαν ὑπερέχειν 
τούτῳ τῷ Σιμμίαν εἶναι, ἀλλὰ τῷ μεγέθει ὃ 
τυγχάνει ἔχων: οὐδ᾽ αὖ Σωκράτους ὑπερέχειν, ὅτι 
Σωκράτης ὁ Σωκράτης ἐστίν, ἀλλ᾽ ὅτι σμικρότητα 
ἔχει ὁ Σωκράτης πρὸς τὸ ἐκείνου μέγεθος; ᾿Αληθῆ. 
Οὐδέ γε αὖ ὑπὸ Φαίδωνος ὑπερέχεσθαι τῷ ὅτι 
Φαίδων ὁ Φαίδων ἐστίν, ἀλλ᾽ ὅτι μέγεθος ἔχει ὁ 
Φαίδων πρὸς τὴν Σιμμίου σμικρότητα; Ἔστι 
ταῦτα. Οὕτως ἄρα ὁ Σιμμίας ἐπωνυμίαν ἔχει 
σμικρός τε καὶ μέγας εἶναι, ἐν μέσῳ ὧν ἀμφοτέρων, 
τοῦ μὲν τῷ μεγέθει ὑπερέχειν τὴν σμικρότητα 
ὑπέχων, τῷ δὲ τὸ μέγεθος τῆς σμικρότητος 
παρέχων ὑπερέχον. καὶ ἅμα μειδιάσας" Ἔοικα, 
ἔφη, καὶ ξυγγραφικῶς ἐρεῖν, ἀλλ᾽ οὖν ἔχει γέ 
που, ὡς λέγω. Συνέφη. Λέγω δὲ τοῦδ᾽ ἕνεκα, 


359 


PHAEDO 


ecHEcraTes. And so do we who were not there, 
and are hearing about it now. But what was said 
after that ? 

pHAEDo. As I remember it, after all this had been 
admitted, and they had agreed that each of the 
abstract qualities exists and that other things which 
participate in these get their names from them, then 
Socrates asked: “Now if you assent to this, do you 
not, when you say that Simmias is greater than 
Socrates and smaller than Phaedo, say that there is 
in Simmias greatness and smallness?” 

eves? 

« But,” said Socrates, “you agree that the state- 
ment that Simmias is greater than Socrates is not true 
as stated in those words. For Simmias is not greater 
than Socrates by reason of being Simmias, but by 
reason of the greatness he happens to have ; nor is he 
greater than Socrates because Socrates is Socrates, 
but because Socrates has smallness relatively to his 
greatness.” 

Caries: 

« And again, he is not smaller than Phaedo because 
Phaedo is Phaedo, but because Phaedo has greatness 
relatively to Simmias’s smallness.” 

“ That is true.” 

“ Then Simmias is called small and great, when he 
is between the two, surpassing the smallness of the 
one by exceeding him in height, and granting to 
the other the greatness that exceeds his own small- 
ness.” And he laughed and said, “1 seem to be 
speaking like a legal document, but it really is very 
much as 1 say.” 

Simmias agreed. 

“1 am speaking so because I want you to agree 


357 


PLATO 


βουλόμενος δόξαι σοὶ ὅπερ ἐμοί. ἐμοὶ γὰρ 
φαίνεται οὐ μόνον αὐτὸ τὸ μέγεθος οὐδέποτ᾽ 
ἐθέλειν ἅμα μέγα καὶ σμικρὸν εἶναι, ἀλλὰ καὶ 
τὸ ἐν ἡμῖν μέγεθος οὐδέποτε προσδέχεσθαι τὸ 
σμικρὸν οὐδ᾽ ἐθέλειν ὑπερέχεσθαι, ἀλλὰ δυοῖν τὸ 
ἕτερον, ἢ φεύγειν καὶ ὑπεκχωρεῖν, ὅταν αὐτῷ 
Ε προσίῃ τὸ ἐναντίον, τὸ σμικρόν, ἢ προσελθόντος 
ἐκείνου ἀπολωλέναι: ὑπομεῖναν δὲ καὶ δεξάμενον 
τὴν σμικρότητα οὐκ ἐθέλειν εἶναι ἕτερον ἢ ὅπερ ἦν. 
ὥσπερ ἐγὼ δεξάμενος καὶ ὑπομείνας τὴν σμικρό- 
τητα, καὶ ἔτει ὧν ὅσπερ εἰμί, οὗτος ὁ αὐτὸς 
σμικρός εἰμι" ἐκεῖνο δὲ οὐ τετόλμηκεν μέγα ὃν 
σμικρὸν εἶναι" ὡς δ᾽ αὕτως καὶ τὸ σμικρὸν τὸ ἐν 
ἡμῖν οὐκ ἐθέλει ποτὲ μέγα γίγνεσθαι. οὐδὲ εἶναι, 
οὐδ᾽ ἄλλο οὐδὲν τῶν ἐναντίων, ἔτι ὃν ὅπερ ἣν 
ἅμα τοὐναντίον γίγνεσθαί τε καὶ εἶναι, ἀλλ᾽ ἤτοι 
103 ἀπέρχεται ἢ ἀπόλλυται ἐν τούτῳ τῷ παθήματι. 
Παντάπασιν, ἔφη ὁ Κέβης, οὕτω φαίνεταί, μοι. 
51. Καί τις εἶπε τῶν παρόντων ἀκούσας---ὅστις 

δ᾽ ἦν, οὐ σαφῶς μέμνημαι" Πρὸς θεῶν, οὐκ ἐν 
τοῖς πρόσθεν ἡμῖν λόγοις αὐτὸ τὸ ἐναντίον τῶν 
νυνὶ λεγομένων ὡμολογεῖτο, ἐκ τοῦ ἐλάττονος τὸ 
μεῖζον γίγνεσθαι καὶ ἐκ τοῦ μείζονος τὸ ἔλαττον, 
καὶ ἀτεχνῶς αὕτη εἶναι ἡ γένεσις τοῖς ἐναντίοις, 
ἐκ τῶν ἐναντίων; νῦν δέ μοι δοκεῖ λέγεσθαι, ὅ ὅτι 
τοῦτο οὐκ ἄν ποτε γένοιτο. καὶ ὁ Σωκράτης 
παραβαλὼν τὴν κεφαλὴν καὶ ἀκούσας, ᾿Ανδρι- 
B κῶς, ἔφη, ἀπεμνημόνευκας, οὐ μέντοι ἐννοεῖς 
τὸ διαφέρον τοῦ τε νῦν λεγομένου καὶ τοῦ τότε. 
τότε μὲν γὰρ ἐλέγετο ἐκ τοῦ ἐναντίου πράγματος 
τὸ ἐναντίον πρᾶγμα γίγνεσθαι, νῦν δέ, ὅτι αὐτὸ 
τὸ ἐναντίον ἑαυτῷ ἐναντίον οὐκ ἄν ποτε γένοιτο, 


352 


PHAEDO 


with me. I think it is evident not only that great- 
ness itself will never be great and also small, but 
that the greatness in us will never admit the small 
or allow itself to be exceeded. One of two things 
must take place: either it flees or withdraws when 
its opposite, smallness, advances toward it, or it has 
already ceased to exist by the time smallness comes 
near it. But it will not receive and admit smallness, 
thereby becoming other than it was. So I have 
received and admitted smallness and am still the 
same small person I was; but the greatness in me, 
being great, has not suffered itself to become small. 
In the same way the smallness in us will never 
become or be great, nor will any other opposite 
which is still what it was, ever become or be also its 
own opposite. It either goes away or loses its 
existence in the change.” 

« That,” said Cebes, “seems to me quite evident.” 

Then one of those present—I don’t just remember 
who it was—said: “In Heaven’s name, is not this 
present doctrine the exact opposite of what was 
admitted in our earlier discussion, that the greater is 
generated from the less and the less from the greater 
and that opposites are always generated from their 
opposites? But now it seems to me we are saying 
that this can never happen.” 

Socrates cocked his head on one side and listened. 

“ You have spoken up like a man,” he said, “ but 
you do not observe the difference between the present 
doctrine and what we said before. We said before 
that in the case of concrete things opposites are 
generated from opposites; whereas now we say that 
the abstract concept of an opposite can never become 


353 


PLATO 


οὔτε TO ἐν ἡμῖν οὔτε TO ἐν TH φύσει. τότε μὲν γάρ, 
ὦ φίλε, περὶ τῶν ἐχόντων τὰ ἐναντία ἐλέγομεν, 
ἐπονομάζοντες αὐτὰ τῇ ἐκείνων ἐπωνυμίᾳ, νῦν δὲ 
περὶ ἐκείνων αὐτῶν, ὧν ἐνόντων ἔχει τὴν ἐπωνυ- 
μίαν τὰ ὀνομαζόμενα: αὐτὰ δ᾽ ἐκεῖνα οὐκ ἄν ποτέ 
φαμεν ἐθελῆσαι γένεσιν ἀλλήλων δέξασθαι. 
καὶ ἅμα βλέψας πρὸς τὸν Κέβητα εἶπεν: “Apa 
μή που, ὦ Κέβης, ἔφη, καὶ σέ τι τούτων 
ἐτάραξεν ὧν ὅδε εἶπεν; ὁ δ᾽' Οὐκ! αὖ, ἔφη ὁ 
Κέβης,Σ οὕτως ἔχω: καίτοι οὔτι λέγω ὡς οὐ 
πολλά με ταράττει. Συνωμολογήκαμεν ἄρα, 
δ᾽ ὅς, ἁπλῶς τοῦτο, μηδέποτε ἐναντίον ἑαυτῷ 
τὸ ἐναντίον ἔσεσθαι. ἸΠαντάπασιν, ἔφη. 

52. "Ere δή μοι καὶ τόδε σκέψαι, ἔφη, εἰ 
ἄρα συνομολογήσεις. θερμόν τι καλεῖς καὶ 
ψυχρόν; Ἔγωγε. "Ap ὅπερ χιόνα καὶ πῦρ; 
Μὰ Al, οὐκ ἔγωγε. ᾿Αλλ’ ἕτερόν τί πυρὸς τὸ 
θερμὸν καὶ ἕτερόν Te χιόνος τὸ ψυχρόν; Nai. 
᾿Αλλὰ τόδε γ᾽, οἶμαι, δοκεῖ σοι, οὐδέποτε χιόνα ὃ 
οὖσαν δεξαμένην τὸ θερμόν, ὥσπερ ἐν τοῖς 
ἔμπροσθεν ἐλέγομεν, ἔτι ἔσεσθαι ὅπερ ἦν, χιόνα 
καὶ θερμόν," ἀλλὰ προσιόντος τοῦ θερμοῦ ἢ ὑπεκ- 
χωρήσειν. αὐτῷ" ἢ ἀπολεῖσθαι. Πάνυ γέ. 
Καὶ τὸ πῦρ γε, av προσιόντος τοῦ ψυχροῦ αὐτῷ 
ἢ ὑπεξιέναι ἢ ἀπολεῖσθαι, οὐ μέντοι ποτὲ 


1 ὁ δ᾽ αὖ ΒΤ. ὁ δ᾽ οὐκ αὖ, Hermann, Schanz. 

2 Schanz brackets ὁ Κέβης. 

8 Schanz inserts χίονα before xfova. 

4 Schanz brackets καὶ θερμόν. 

5 αὐτό BCE; bracketed by Schanz. αὐτῷ c, Wohlrab, 
Burnet. 


354 


PHAEDO 


its own opposite, either in us or in the world about 
us. Then we were talking about things which possess 
opposite qualities and are called after them, but now 
about those very opposites the immanence of which 
gives the things their names. We say that these 
latter can never be generated from each other.” 

At the same time he looked at Cebes and said: 
« And you—are you troubled by any of our friends’ 
objections?” 

“No,” said Cebes, “ not this time ; though I confess 
that objections often do trouble me.” 

“ Well, we are quite agreed,” said Socrates, “ upon 
this, that an opposite can never be its own opposite.” 

“ Entirely agreed,’ said Cebes. 

“Now,” said he, “see if you agree with me in 
what follows: Is there something that you call heat 
and something you call cold ?”’ 

ΠΟῪ eS. 

«« Are they the same as snow and fire?” 

“No, not at 811 

“But heat is a different thing from fire and cold 
differs from snow?” 

Ὁ Yes: 

“ Yet I fancy you believe that snow, if (to employ 
the form of phrase we used before) it admits heat, 
will no longer be what it was, namely snow, and also 
warm, but will either withdraw when heat approaches 
it or will cease to exist.” 

* Certainly.” 

« And similarly fire, when cold approaches it, will 
either withdraw or perish. It will never succeed in 


355 


104 


PLATO 


/ / \ 7 Μ - 
τολμήσειν δεξάμενον τὴν ψυχρότητα ἔτι εἶναι 
t » A , “ 
ὅπερ ἦν, πῦρ καὶ ψυχρόν. ᾿Αληθῆ, ἔφη, 

Mv Μ > a 
λέγεις. Ἔστιν dpa, ἢ δ᾽ ὅς, περὶ ἔνια τῶν 
/ Φ \ “ 3. ὙΨΙΝ Ν - > [οἱ 
τοιούτων, ὥστε μὴ μόνον αὐτὸ τὸ εἶδος ἀξιοῦσθαι 

a fa] Ἂν 
τοῦ αὐτοῦ ὀνόματος εἰς τὸν ἀεὶ χρόνον, ἀλλὰ καὶ 
ΜΝ ἃν Ν > > a“ 7 \ \ 2 his 
ἄλλο TL, ὃ ἔστι μὲν οὐκ ἐκεῖνο, ἔχει δὲ τὴν ἐκείνου 

\ ee ccd 3 » Ν > a » 
μορφὴν ἀεὶ ὅτανπερ ἧ. ἔτι δὲ ἐν τοῖσδε ἴσως 
ἔσται σαφέστερον ὃ λέγω. τὸ γὰρ περιττὸν ἀεί 

a he Pe ed, Ud lal 
που δεῖ τούτου τοῦ ὀνόματος τυγχάνειν, ὅπερ νῦν 
΄ ’ / a 
λέγομεν: ἡ ov; Πάνυ ye. "Apa μόνον τῶν 
ὄντων, τοῦτο γὰρ ἐρωτῶ, ἢ καὶ ἄλλο τι, ὃ ἔστι 
μὲν οὐχ ὅπερ τὸ περιττόν, ὅμως δὲ δεῖ αὐτὸ μετὰ 
τοῦ ἑαυτοῦ ὀνόματος καὶ τοῦτο καλεῖν ἀεὶ διὰ τὸ 
οὕτω πεφυκέναι, ὥστε τοῦ περιττοῦ μηδέποτε 

, 
ἀπολείπεσθαι; λέγω δὲ αὐτὸ εἶναι οἷον καὶ ἡ τριὰς 
/ \ yw 4 / \ \ n 
πέπονθε Kal ἄλλα πολλά. σκόπει δὲ περὶ τῆς 
- a a / 
τριάδος. ἄρα ov δοκεῖ σοι τῷ τε αὑτῆς ὀνόματι 
/ δ᾿ fa - a 
ἀεὶ προσαγορευτέα εἶναι Kal τῷ τοῦ περιττοῦ, 
“ b] 
ὄντος οὐχ οὗπερ τῆς τριάδος; ἀλλ᾽ ὅμως οὕτω πως 
ς 
πέφυκε καὶ ἡ τριὰς καὶ ἡ πεμπτὰς καὶ ὁ ἥμισυς 
a a @ σ“ Ν 
τοῦ ἀριθμοῦ ἅπας, ὥστε οὐκ ὧν ὅπερ τὸ περιττὸν 
- , \ 
ἀεὶ ἕκαστος αὐτῶν ἐστι περιττός: Kal αὖ Ta δύο 
/ ’ὔ fo) 
καὶ τὰ τέτταρα Kal ἅπας ὁ ἕτερος αὖ στίχος TOU 
κι \ 
ἀριθμοῦ οὐκ ὧν ὅπερ TO ἄρτιον ὅμως ἕκαστος 
vad / TA a ” ad 
αὐτῶν ἄρτιός ἐστιν dei συγχωρεῖς ἢ ov; Llds 
» Μ 4 4 
yap οὔκ; ἔφης “O τοίνυν, ἔφη, βούλομαι δη- 
a / 
λῶσαι, ἄθρει. ἔστιν δὲ τόδε, ὅτε φαίνεται ov 
“ 2 A \ 2 ie bY > ὃ / 
μόνον ἐκεῖνα τὰ ἐναντία ἄλληλα οὐ ὃεχομενα, 
2 \ Nie > ” > Jamey / ? ’ μ᾿ ΠΝ 
ἀλλὰ καὶ ὅσα οὐκ ὃντ ἀλλήλοις ἐναντία EXEL ἀεὶ 
a , \ 
τἀναντία, οὐδὲ ταῦτα ἔοικε δεχομένοις ἐκείνην THY 


1 Schanz brackets καὶ ψυχρόν». 
356 


PHAEDO 


admitting cold and being still fire, as it was before, 
and also cold.” 

‘‘ That is true,” said he. 

“The fact is,’ said he, “in some such cases, that 
not only the abstract idea itself has a right to the 
same name through all time, but also something else, 
which is not the idea, but which always, whenever it 
exists, has the form of the idea. But perhaps I can 
make my meaning clearer by some examples. In 
numbers, the odd must always have the name of odd, 
must it not?”’ 

“ Certainly.” 

“ But is this the only thing so called (for this is what 
I mean to ask), or is there something else, which is not 
identical with the odd but nevertheless has a right 
to the name of odd in addition to its own name, be- 
cause it is of such a nature that it is never separ- 
ated from the odd? I mean, for instance, the number 
three, and there are many otherexamples. Takethe 
case of three ; do you not think it may always be called 
by its own name and also be called odd, which is not 
the same as three? Yet the number three and the 
number five and half of numbers in general are so 
constituted, that each of them is odd though not 
identified with the idea of odd. And in the same 
way two and four and all the other series of numbers 
are even, each of them, though not identical with 
evenness. Do you agree, or not?” 

“ΟΥ̓ course,” he replied. 

“Now see what I want to make plain. This 
is my point, that not only abstract opposites exclude 
each other, but all things which, although not 
opposites one to another, always contain opposites ; 


351 


PLATO 


30. A A 
ἰδέαν ἣ ἂν τῇ ἐν αὐτοῖς οὔσῃ ἐναντία ἢ, ἀλλ᾽ 


᾽ 4 > na » ᾽ 7 a 6 
ἐπιούσης αὑτῆς TOL ἀπολλύμενα ἢ ὑπεκχω- 
ροῦντα: ἢ οὐ φήσομεν τὰ τρία καὶ ἀπολεῖσθαι 
, \ ¥ e wn 7 Ν € 
πρότερον καὶ ado ὁτιοῦν πείσεσθαι, πρὶν ὑπο- 
rf » , » wv ΄ /, \ 
μεῖναι ἔτι τρία ὄντα ἄρτια γενέσθαι; Lavy μὲν 
« f 
οὗν, ἔφη ὁ Κέβης. Οὐδὲ μήν, ἢ δ᾽ ὅς, ἐναντίον 
γέ ἐστι δυὰς τριάδι. Οὐ γὰρ οὖν. Οὐκ ἄρα 
, \ ἮΝ \ bY f 3 Ὁ ΄ b) ’ 
μόνον τὰ εἴδη τὰ ἐναντία οὐχ ὑπομένει ἐπιόντα 
ἄλληλα, ἀλλὰ καὶ ἄλλ᾽ ἄττα τὰ ἐναντία οὐχ 
ὑπομένει ἐπιόντα. ᾿Αληθέστατα, ἔφη, λέγεις. 
53. Βούλει οὖν, ἦ δ᾽ ὅς, ἐὰν οἷοί T ὦμεν, 
e , e “ A 4, > A 
ὁρισώμεθα οποῖα ταῦτά ἐστιν; Ilavy γε. 
ἾΑρ᾽ οὖν, ἔφη, ὦ Κέβης, τάδε εἴη ἄν, ἃ 6 τι ἂν 
4 \ , > 4 Ἁ e ~ > , 
κατάσχῃ, μὴ μόνον ἀναγκάζει τὴν αὑτοῦ ἰδέαν 
\ ’ , a 
αὐτὸ ἴσχειν, ἀλλὰ καὶ ἐναντίου ἀεί TLvos;} ἸΠῶς 
» 4 
λέγεις; “Ὥσπερ ἄρτι ἔλέγομεν. οἶσθα γὰρ δή- 
“ ἃ ἡ id A a a7 / ’ ΄, 
που, ὅτι ἃ ἂν ἡ τῶν τριῶν ἰδέα κατάσχῃ, ἀνάγκη 
᾽ a > ,ὔ \ > > ἃ \ ” 
αὐτοῖς OV oVvOY τρισὶν εἰναι ἀλλὰ καὶ περιττοῖς. 
Ν lo , 
Πάνυ ye. “Ent τὸ τοιοῦτον δή, φαμέν, ἡ ἐναν- 
, 50." 2 fi a a ἃ ΕΝ ἴον 3 4 
tia ἰδέα ἐκείνη TH μορφῇ, ἣ av τοῦτο ἀπεργά- 
Entrar, οὐδέποτ᾽ ἂν ἔλθοι. Οὐ γάρ. Eipyatero 


1 αὐτῷ ἀεί τινος BCDE. Stallbaum, followed by Schanz, 
brackets αὐτῷ. 


358 


PHAEDO 


these also, we find, exclude the idea which is opposed 
to the idea contained in them, and when it approaches 
they either perish or withdraw. We must certainly 
agree that the number three will endure destruction 
or anything else rather than submit to becoming even, 
while still remaining three, must we not?” 

“ Certainly,” said Cebes. 

“ But the number two is not the opposite of the 
number three.” 

‘No.2 

«Then not only opposite ideas refuse to admit each 
other when they come near, but certain other things 
refuse to admit the approach of opposites.” 

“ Very true,” he said. 

«‘ Shall we then,”’ said Socrates, “determine if we 
can, what these are?”’ 

< Certainly.” 

“Then, Cebes, will they be those which always 
compel anything of which they take possession not 
only to take their form but also that of some oppo- 
site?” 

“What do you mean ?”’ 

“Such things as we were speaking of just now. 
You know of course that those things in which the 
number three is an essential element must be not only 
three but also odd.” 

Ὁ Certamly.~ 

« Now such a thing can never admit the idea which 
is the opposite of the concept which produces this 
result.” 

* No, it cannot.” 


359 


105 


PLATO 


δέ ye ἡ περιττή; Nai. “Evavtia δὲ ταύτῃ ἡ 
τοῦ aptiov; Nai. Ἐπὶ τὰ τρία ἄρα ἡ τοῦ 
/ a 

ἀρτίου ἰδέα οὐδέποτε ἥξει. Οὐ δῆτα. “Aporpa 

\ A ΕῚ , Ν , » Ὁ) 72 

δὴ τοῦ ἀρτίου τὰ τρία. Αμοιρα. ᾿Ανάρτιος 

ἄρα ἡ τριάς. Ναί. Ὃ τοίνυν ἔλεγον ὁρίσα- 
a ᾽ Σ Md \ » [τι Ε] 

σθαι, ποῖα οὐκ ἐναντία τινὴ ὄντα ὅμως οὐ 


δῷ STAN \ > / 1 
EXETAL avuTO TO €EVAVTLOY, 


οἷον νῦν ἡ τριὰς TO 
» n 
ἀρτίῳ οὐκ οὖσα ἐναντία οὐδέν TL μᾶλλον αὐτὸ 
, x \ b ,ὔ 355% 5) A 3 / \ 
δέχεται, TO yap ἐναντίον ἀεὶ αὐτῷ ἐπιφέρει, καὶ 
ἡ δυὰς τῷ περιττῷ καὶ τὸ πῦρ τῷ ψυχρῷ καὶ ἄλλα 
πάμπολλα---ἀλλ᾽ ὅρα δή, εἰ οὕτως ὁρίζει, μὴ μόνον 
\ 
τὸ ἐναντίον τὸ ἐναντίον μὴ δέχεσθαι, ἀλλὰ Kal 
b tad ὰ A 3 / ᾽ 4 > / > Tie xX 
ἐκεῖνο, Ὁ ἂν ἔπεφέρῃ TL ἐναντιον ἐκείνῳ, Eh ὅ TL ἂν 
> Wa S5RgN Ν ᾿Ὶ ΄ \ a > , 
αὐτὸ in, AUTO TO ἐπιφέρον τὴν τοῦ ἐπιφερομένου 
ἐναντιότητα μηδέποτε δέξασθαι. πάλιν δὲ ἀνα- 
t 5) \ a ΄ 2 7 \ 
μιμνήσκου" οὐ γὰρ χεῖρον πολλάκις ἀκούειν. τὰ 
, \ ἘΔ ea > Oo EL _A’ OF \ 
πέντε τὴν TOV ἀρτίου ov δέξεται, οὐδὲ TA δέκα τὴν 
rn a x 4 a \ φ \ 
τοῦ περιττοῦ, TO διπλάσιον: τοῦτο μὲν οὖν Kal 
a > 5 / “ Ν \ a a 
αὐτὸ ἄλλῳ οὐκ ἐναντίον, OMWS δὲ Τὴν τοῦ περιττοῦ 
᾿ , 8 
ov δέξεται: οὐδὲ TO ἡμιόλιον οὐδὲ τἄλλα τὰ 


a na , 
τοιαῦτα, THY τοῦ ὅλου, καὶ τριτημόριον αὖ Kal 


1 Schanz, following Bekker, brackets τὸ ἐναντίον. 
2 After τοιαῦτα the MSS. read τὸ ἥμισυν. ‘ half,” which 
Schanz brackets. 


360 


PHAEDO 


« But the result was produced by the concept of 
the odd?” 

ed ag 

« And the opposite of this is the idea of the even?” 

Ves. . 

«‘ Then the idea of the even will never be admitted 
by the number three.” 

ΕἾΝ 

« Then three has no part in the even.” 

“No, it has none.” 

« Then the number three is uneven.” 

ee θεν ὦ 

“ Now I propose to determine what things, with- 
out being the opposites of something, nevertheless 
refuse to admit it, as the number three, though it is 
not the opposite of the idea of even, nevertheless re- 
fuses to admit it, but always brings forward its 
opposite against it, and as the number two brings 
forward the opposite of the odd and fire that of cold, 
and so forth, for there are plenty of examples. Now 
see if you accept this statement : not only will oppo- 
sites not admit their opposites, but nothing which 
brings an opposite to that which it approaches will 
ever admit in itself the oppositeness of that which is 
brought. Now let me refresh your memory; for 
there is no harm in repetition. The number five will 
not admit the idea of the even, nor will ten, the 
double of five, admit the idea of the odd. Now ten 
is not itself an opposite, and yet it will not admit the 
idea of the odd; and so one-and-a-half and other 
mixed fractions and one-third and other simple frac- 


361 


PLATO 


πάντα τὰ τοιαῦτα, εἴπερ ἕπει τε καὶ συνδοκεῖ σοι 
οὕτως. Πάνυ σφόδρα καὶ συνδοκεῖ, ἔφη, καὶ 
ἕπομαι. 
, a 

54. Πάλιν δή μοι, ἔφη, ἐξ ἀρχῆς λέγε. καὶ 

/ Aa A bd Le af ’, » ἊΝ / 
μὴ μοι ὁ ἂν EpWwTW ἀποκρίνου, ἀλλὰ μιμού- 

Ἄγ , \ » A \ a » 

μενος ἐμέ. λέγω δὲ παρ᾽ ἣν τὸ πρῶτον ἔλεγον 

’ A f A aA 
ἀπόκρισιν, τὴν ἀσφαλῆ ἐκείνην, ἐκ τῶν νῦν 
λεγομένων ἄλλην ὁρῶν ἀσφάλειαν. εἰ γὰρ ἔροιό 

\ 
1 ἐγγένηται, θερμὸν ἔσται, ov τὴν 
> nw >] A > f > , \ > “ 
ἀσφαλῆ σοι ἐρῶ ἀπόκρισιν ἐκείνην τὴν ἀμαθῆ, 
“ ? # θ / Ἰλλὰ la > A a 
ὅτι @ av θερμότης, ἀλλὰ κομψοτέραν ἐκ τῶν νῦν, 
μή Pe A Ce ὑδὲ a ΝΜ φὰλ , ἜΣ » 
ὅτι ᾧ ἂν πῦρ' οὐδὲ ἂν ἔρῃ, ᾧ ἂν σώματι τί ἐγγέ- 
“a ͵ 


΄ 3 et ἡ Ὁ φ ᾽ ᾽ Ἂν 
νηται, νοσήσει, οὐκ Epa OTL ᾧ ἂν νοσος, ἀλλ ᾧ 


« 


φ gs / 
με, @ ἂν TL 


A ΄ ΟΣ ee Ἃ > fo fd 5) / 
ἂν πυρετός" οὐδ᾽ ᾧ ἂν ἀριθμῷ τί ἐγγένηται, περιτ- 
\ » > SD as OG Ἢ ) 2 er ok 
TOS EOTAL, οὐκ EPW W ἂν TEPLTTOTNS, ἀλλ ᾧ ἂν 
/ \ 4 ev by 7a > + e A 
μονάς, καὶ τἄλλα οὕτως. ἀλλ᾽ ὅρα, εἰ ἤδη ἱκανῶς 
\ e a 
οἶσθ᾽ ὅ τι βούλομαι. ᾿Αλλὰ πάνυ ἱκανῶς, ἔφη. 
᾿Αποκρίνου δή, ἢ δ᾽ ὅς, ᾧ ἂν τί ἐγγένηται 
ρ Ns ἢ Ope ies, YYERN 
a ? ΄ 
σώματι, ζῶν ἔσται; Ὧι ἂν ψυχή, ἔφη. Οὐκ- 
a a a \ 3 / 
οῦν ἀεὶ τοῦτο οὕτως ἔχει; las yap οὐχί; 7 
δ σ € \ w nd Ἅ ΞΚΩΝ ΄ “ἃ 
δ᾽ ὅς. Ἣ ψυχὴ ἄρα ὅτι ἂν αὐτὴ κατάσχῃ, ἀεὶ 
“ > δ 9 a ’ὔ’ / / 4 
ἥκει ἐπ ἐκεῖνο φέρουσα ζωήν; “Hew μέντοι, 
wy , 3. a b) / Δ > fe 
ἔφη. ἸΠότερον δ᾽ ἔστι τι ζωῇ ἐναντίον ἢ οὐδέν; 
A \ \ 
Ἔστιν, ἔφη. Τί; Θάνατος. Οὐκοῦν ψυχὴ ro 
» / e ᾿ΕΝ 3 / 3, ἘΝ > ΄ 
ἐναντίον ᾧ αὐτὴ ἐπιφέρει ἀεὶ οὐ μὴ ποτε 
1 After τί the MSS. read ἐν τῷ σώματι, “‘in the body,” 
which Schanz brackets. 
362 


PHAEDO 


tions reject the idea of the whole. Do you go with 
me and agree to this?” 

“ Yes, I agree entirely,” he said, “and am with 

ou. 

ee Then,’ said Socrates, “ please begin again at the 
beginning. And do not answer my questions in their 
own words, but do as I do. I give an answer beyond 
that safe answer which I spoke of at first, now that I 
see another safe reply deduced from what has just 
been said. If you ask me what causes anything in 
which it is to be hot, I will not give you that safe but 
stupid answer and say that it is heat, but I can now 
give a more refined answer, that it is fire ; and if you 
ask, what causes the body in which it is to be ill, I 
shall not say illness, but fever; and if you ask what 
causes a number in which it is to be odd, I shall not 
say oddness, but the number one, and so forth. Do 
you understand sufficiently what 1 mean?” 

“ Quite sufficiently,’ he replied. 

“« Now answer,” said he. ‘ What causes the body 
in which it is to be alive ?”’ 

“The soul,” he replied. 

“Ts this always the case?” 

“Yes,” said he, “ of course.” 

“Then if the soul takes possession of anything it 
always brings life to it?” 

“ Certainly,” he said. 

“Js there anything that is the opposite of life?” 

“ Yes,” said he. 

eWhatri 

“ Death.” 

“Now the soul, as we have agreed before, will 


363 


PLATO 


δέξηται, ws ἐκ τῶν πρόσθεν ὡμολόγηται; Καὶ 
ὠάλα σφόδρα, ἔφη ὁ Κέβης. 

55. Τί οὖν; τὸ μὴ δεχόμενον τὴν τοῦ ἀρτίου 
ἰδέαν τί νῦν δὴ ὠνομάζομεν; ᾿Ανάρτιον, ἔφη. 


Τὸ δὲ δίκαιον μὴ δεχόμενον καὶ ὃ ἂν μουσικὸν 


E μὴ δέχηται; Αμουσον, ἔφη, τὸ δὲ ἄδικον. 


106 


Kiev: ὃ δ᾽ ἂν θάνατον μὴ δέχηται, τί καλοῦμεν; 
᾿Αθάνατον, ἔφη. Οὐκοῦν ἡ ψυχὴ οὐ δέχεται 
θάνατον; Οὔ. ᾿Αθάνατον ἄρα ἡ ψυχή. ᾿Αθά- 
vatov. Kiev, ἔφη" τοῦτο μὲν δὴ ἀποδεδεῖχθαι 
φῶμεν: ἢ πῶς δοκεῖ; Καὶ μάλα γε ἱκανῶς, 
ὦ Σώκρατες. Τί οὖν, ἦ δ᾽ ὅς, ὦ Κέβης; εἰ 
τῷ ἀναρτίῳ ἀναγκαῖον ἦν ἀνωλέθρῳ εἶναι, ἄλλο 
τι τὰ τρία ἢ ἀνώλεθρα ἂν ἦν; Ἰϊῶς yap 
» Οὐ a ’ \ \ 10 > a = 
οὔ; Οὐκοῦν εἰ καὶ τὸ ἄθερμον ἀναγκαῖον ἦν 
3 / “- € f 3 \ / \ 
ἀνώλεθρον εἶναι, ὁπότε τις ἐπὶ χιόνα θερμὸν 
\ a 
ἐπαγάγοι, ὑπεξήει ἂν ἡ χιὼν οὖσα σῶς καὶ 
Μ » \ A > ’, / 2» = e 
ἄτηκτος; οὐ yap ἂν ἀπώλετό γε, οὐδ᾽ αὖ ὑπο- 
μένουσα ἐδέξατο ἂν τὴν θερμότητα. ᾿Αληθῆ, 
ἔφη, λέγεις. Ὡσαύτως, οἶμαι, κἂν εἰ τὸ ἄψυ- 
5 , ς e s > \ Ἂς - , 
KTov ἀνώλεθρον ἣν, ὁπότε ἐπὶ TO πῦρ ψυχρόν 
᾽ , Ww ? > / 799 > Ἢ 
τι ἐπήει, οὔποτ᾽ ἂν ἀπεσβέννυτο οὐδ᾽ ἀπώλλυτο, 
ἀλλὰ σῶν ἂν ἀπελθὸν ὥχετο. ᾿Ανάγκη, ἔφη. 
Οὐκοῦν καὶ ὧδε, ἔφη, ἀνώγκη περὶ τοῦ ἀθανάτου 
364 


PHAEDO 


never admit the opposite of that which it brings 
with it.” 

“ Decidedly not,’ said Cebes. 

“Then what do we now call that which does not 
admit the idea of the even?” 

“ Uneven,” said he. 

“* And those which do not admit justice and music?.” 

“ Unjust,” he replied, “and unmusical.”’ 

* Well then what do we call that which does not 
admit death ?”’ 

“ Deathless or immortal,” he said. 

“ And the soul does not admit death?” 

No.” 

* Then the soul is immortal.” 

Ses: 

“Very well,” said he. ‘Shall we say then that 
this is proved >?” 

“ Yes, and very satisfactorily, Socrates.” 

* Well then, Cebes,” said he, “if the odd were 
necessarily imperishable, would not the number three 
be imperishable ἢ 

“« Of course.” 

“ And if that which is without heat were imperish- 
able, would not snow go away whole and unmelted 
whenever heat was brought in conflict with snow? 
For it could not have been destroyed, nor could it 
have remained and admitted the heat.” 

“That is very true,” he replied. 

“In the same way, I think, if that which is with- 
out cold were imperishable, whenever anything cold 
approached fire, it would never perish or be quenched, 
but would go away unharmed.” 

“ Necessarily,” he said. 

“ And must not the same be said of that which is 


365 


PLATO 


> a“ > ἈΝ \ ᾽ / \ > ’ , 
εἰπεῖν; εἰ μὲν τὸ ἀθάνατον Kal ἀνώλεθρόν 
ἐστιν, ἀδύνατον ψυχῇ, ὅταν θάνατος ἐπ᾽ αὐτὴν 
” > , ΄ \ \ \ » n 
in, ἀπόλλυσθαι: θάνατον μὲν yap δὴ ἐκ τῶν 
προειρημένων οὐ δέξεται οὐδ᾽ ἔσται τεθνηκυΐα, 
ὥσπερ τὰ τρία οὐκ ἔσται, ἔφαμεν, ἄρτιον, οὐδέ γ᾽ 

5 \ , +>Q\ \ a / 3 Ν Cy oP 
αὖ TO περιττόν, οὐδὲ δὴ πῦρ ψυχρόν, οὐδέ γε ἡ ἐν 
τῷ πυρὶ θερμότ ἰλλὰ τί κωλύε:, φαίη ἃ 
ᾧ πυρὶ θερμότης. ἀλλὰ , φαίη ἂν τις, 
Ui Ν ἈΝ Ν Ἁ , U Tal 
ἄρτιον μὲν TO περιττὸν μὴ γίγνεσθαι ἐπιόντος τοῦ 
ἀρτίου, ὥσπερ ὡμολόγηται, ἀπολομένου δὲ αὐτοῦ 
ἀντ᾽ ἐκείνου ἄρτιον γεγονέναι; τῷ ταῦτα λέγοντι 
οὐκ ἄν ἔχοιμεν διαμίχεσθαι ὅ ὅτι οὐκ ἀπόλλυται: 
τὸ γὰρ ἀνάρτιον οὐκ ἀνώλεθρόν ἐστιν: ἐπεὶ εἰ 
τοῦτο ὡμολόγητο ἡμῖν, ῥᾳδίως ἂν διεμαχόμεθα 
ὅτι ἐπελθόντος τοῦ ἀρτίου τὸ περιττὸν καὶ τὰ 
τρία οἴχεται ἀπιόντα" καὶ περὶ πυρὸς καὶ θερμοῦ 
καὶ τῶν ἄλλων οὕτως ἂν διεμαχόμεθα. ἢ οὔ; 
Πάνυ μὲν οὖν. Οὐκοῦν καὶ νῦν περὶ τοῦ ἀθα- 
νάτου, εἰ μὲν ἡμῖν ὁμολογεῖται καὶ ἀνώλεθρον 
εἶναι, ψυχὴ ἂν εἴη πρὸς τῷ ἀθάνατος εἶναι καὶ 
ἀνώλεθρος" εἰν. δὲ, Με: ἄχλου ἂν δέοι λόγου. 
᾿Αλλ᾽ οὐδὲν δεῖ, ἔφη, τούτου γε ἕνεκα: σχολῇ 
γὰρ ἄν τι ἄλλο φθορὰν μὴ δέχοιτο, εἴ γε τὸ 
ἀθάνατον ἀΐδιον ὃν φθορὰν δέξεται. 

56. ‘0 δέ γε θεός, οἶμαι, ἔφη ὁ “Σωκράτης, 
καὶ αὐτὸ τὸ τῆς ζωῆς εἶδος καὶ εἴ τι ἄλλο 
ἀθάνατόν ἐστιν, παρὰ πάντων ἂν ὁμολογηθείη 

/ b) , Ni , 4 \ 
μηδέποτε ἀπόλλυσθαι. apa πάντων μέντοι νὴ 
Δί᾽, ἔφη, ἀνθρώπων τέ γε καὶ ἔτι μᾶλλον, ὡς 

al € \ 
ἐγώμαι, παρὰ θεῶν. ‘Omote δὴ τὸ ἀθάνατον 

Noa , ; > » . » ἔν τ , 
καὶ ἀδιάφθορον ἐστιν, ἄλλο TL ψυχὴ 7}, εἰ ἀθάνα- 
τος τυγχάνει οὖσα, καὶ ἀνώλεθρος ἂν εἴη; 
266 


PHAEDO 


immortal? If the immortal is also imperishable, it 
is impossible for the soul to perish when death comes 
against it. For, as our argument has shown, it will 
not admit death and will not be dead, just as the 
number three, we said, will not be even, and the odd 
will not be even, and as fire, and the heat in the fire, 
will not be cold. But, one might say, why is it not 
possible that the odd does not become even when the 
even comes against it (we agreed to that), but 
perishes, and the even takes its place? Now we can- 
not silence him who raises this question by saying 
that it does not perish, for the odd is not imperishable. 
If that were conceded to us, we could easily silence 
him by saying that when the even approaches, the 
odd and the number three go away; and we could 
make the corresponding reply about fire and heat 
and the rest, could we not?” 

Certainly.” 

* And so, too, in the case of the immortal ; if it is 
conceded that the immortal is imperishable, the 
soul would be imperishable as well as immortal, but 
if not, further argument is needed.” 

“ But,” he said, “ it is not needed, so far as that is 
concerned ; for surely nothing would escape destruc- 
tion, if the immortal, which is everlasting, is perish- 
able.” 

« All, I think,” said Socrates, “would agree that 
God and the principle of life, and anything else that is 
immortal, can never perish.” 

« All men would, certainly,” said he, “and still 
more, I fancy, the Gods.” 

« Since, then, the immortal is also indestructible, 
would not the soul, if it is immortal, be also im- 
perishable ὃ 


367 


107 


PLATO 


Πολλὴ ἀνάγκη. ᾿Επιόντος ἄρα θανάτου ἐπὶ 
τὸν ἄνθρωπον. τὸ μὲν θνητόν, ὡς ἔοικεν, αὐτοῦ 
ἀποθνήσκει, τὸ δ᾽ ἀθάνατον σῶν καὶ ἀδιάφθορον 
οἴχεται ἀπιόν, ὑπεκχωρῆσαν τῷ θανάτῳ. Φαΐί- 
νεται. Παντὸς μᾶλλον ἄρα, ἔφη, ὦ Κέβης, 

υχὴ ἀθάνατον καὶ ἀνώλεθρον, καὶ τῷ ὄντι 
ἔσονται ἡμῶν αἱ ψυχαὶ ἐν “Αἰδου. Οὔκουν 
ἔγωγε, ὦ Σώκρατες, ἔφη, ἔχω παρὰ ταῦτα 
ἄλλο τι λέγειν οὐδέ “πῃ ἀπιστεῖν τοῖς λόγοις. 
ἀλλ᾽ εἰ δή τι Σιμμίας ἤ τις ἄλλος ἔχει λέγειν, εὖ 
ἔχει μὴ κατασιγῆσαι: ὡς οὐκ οἶδα εἰς ὅντινά τις 
ἄλλον καιρὸν ἀναβάλλοιτο ἢ τὸν νῦν παρόντα, 
περὶ τῶν τοιούτων βουλόμενος ἤ τι εἰπεῖν ἢ 
ἀκοῦσαι. ᾿Αλλὰ μήν, iY δ᾽ ὃς ὁ Σιμμίας, οὐδ᾽ 
αὐτὸς “ἔχω ὅπῃ ἀπιστῶ ἔκ We τῶν λεγομένων" 
ὑπὸ μέντοι τοῦ μεγέθους περὶ ὧν οἱ λόγοι εἰσίν, 
καὶ τὴν ἀνθρωπίνην ἀσθένειαν ἀτιμάζων, ἀναγ- 
κάξομαι ἀπιστίαν ἔτι ἔχειν παρ᾽ ἐμαυτῷ περὶ τῶν 
εἰρημένων. Οὐ μόνον γ᾽, ἔφη, ὧ Σιμμία, ὁ 
Σωκράτης, ἀλλὰ" καὶ τὰς ὑποθέσεις τὰς πρώτας, 
καὶ εἰ πισταὶ ὑμῖν εἰσιν, ὅμως ἐπισκεπτέαι σαφέ- 
στερον' καὶ ἐὰν αὐτὰς ἱκανῶς διέλητε, ὡς ἐγώμαι, 
ἀκολουθήσετε τῷ λόγῳ Kal? ὅσον δυνατὸν μάλιστ᾽ 
ἀνθρώπῳ ἐπακολουθῆσαι: κἂν τοῦτο αὐτὸ σαφὲς 
γένηται, οὐδὲν ζητήσετε περαιτέρω. ᾿Αληθῆ, ἔφη, 
λέγεις. 

57. ὐλλὰ τόδε γ᾽, ἔφη, ὦ ἄνδρες, δίκαιον 
διανοηθῆναι ὅτι, εἴπερ ἡ ψυχὴ ἀθάνατος, ἐπιμε- 
λείας δὴ δεῖται οὐχ ὑπὲρ τοῦ χρόνου τούτου μόνον, 
ἐν ᾧ καλοῦμεν τὸ ζῆν, ἀλλ᾽ ὑπὲρ τοῦ παντός, καὶ 


1 After ἀλλὰ the MSS. read ταῦτά τε εὖ λέγεις ; bracketed 
by Ast, Schanz, and others. 


368 


PHAEDO 


“ Necessarily.” 

“Then when death comes to a man, his mortal 
part, it seems, dies, but the immortal part goes away 
unharmed and undestroyed, withdrawing from 
death.” 

«So it seems.” 

“ Then, Cebes,” said he, “it is perfectly certain that 
the soul is immortal and imperishable, and our souls 
will exist somewhere in another world.” 

“J,” said Cebes, “have nothing more to say against 
that, and I cannot doubt your conclusions. But if 
Simmias, or anyone else, has anything to say, he 
would do well to speak, for I do not know to what 
other time than the present he could defer speaking, 
if he wishes to say or hear anything about those 
matters.” 

“Βαϊ, said Simmias, “ I don’t see how I can doubt, 
either, as to the result of the discussion; but the 
subject is so great, and 1 have such a poor opinion of 
human weakness, that I cannot help having some 
doubt in my own mind about what has been said.” 

“ Not only that, Simmias,” said Socrates, “ but our 
first assumptions ought to be more carefully examined, 
even though they seem to you to be certain. And 
if you analyse them completely, you will, I think, 
follow and agree with the argument, so far as it is 
possible for man to do so. And if this is made clear, 
you will seek no farther.” 

“< That is true,” he said. 

“ But my friends,” he said, “we ought to bear in 
mind, that, if the soul is immortal, we must care for 
it, not only in respect to this time, which we call life, 


369 


108 


PLATO 


ὁ κίνδυνος νῦν δὴ καὶ δόξειεν ἂν δεινὸς εἶναι, εἴ τις 
αὐτῆς ἀμελήσει. εἰ μὲν γὰρ. ἣν ὁ θάνατος τοῦ 
παντὸς ἀπαλλαγή, ἕρμαιον ἂν ἣν τοῖς κακοῖς 
ἀποθανοῦσι τοῦ τε σώματος ἅμ᾽ ἀπηλλάχθαι καὶ 
τῆς αὑτῶν κακίας μετὰ τῆς ψυχῆς: νῦν δ᾽ ἐπειδὴ 
ἀθάνατος φαίνεται οὖσα, οὐδεμία ἂν εἴη αὐτῇ 
ἄλλη ἀποφυγὴ κακῶν οὐδὲ σωτηρία πλὴν τοῦ ὡς 
βελτίστην τε καὶ φρονιμωτάτην γενέσθαι. οὐδὲν 
γὰρ ἄλλο ἔχουσα εἰς “Acdou ἡ ψυχὴ ἐ ἔρχεται πλὴν 
τῆς παιδείας τε καὶ τροφῆς, ἃ δὴ καὶ μέγιστα 
λέγεται ὠφελεῖν ἢ βλάπτειν τὸν τελευτήσαντα 
εὐθὺς ἐν ἀρχῇ τῆς ἐκεῖσε πορείας. λέγεται δὲ 
οὕτως, ὡς apa τελευτήσαντα ἕκαστον ὁ ἑκάστου 
δαίμων, ὅσπερ ζῶντα εἰλήχει, οὗτος ἄγειν ἐπι- 
χειρεῖ εἰς δή τινα τόπον, οἷ δεῖ τοὺς συλ- 
λεγέντας διαδικασαμένους εἰς “Αἰδου πορεύεσθαι 
μετὰ ἡγεμόνος ἐκείνου ᾧ δὴ προστέτακται 
τοὺς ἐνθένδε ἐκεῖσε πορεῦσαι: τυχόντας δὲ ἐκεῖ 
ὧν δεῖ τυχεῖν καὶ μείναντας ὃν χρὴ χρόνον 
ἄλλος δεῦρο πάλιν ἡγεμὼν κομίζει ἐν πολλαῖς 
χρόνου καὶ μακραῖς περιύδοις. ἔστι δὲ ἄρα ἡ 
πορεία οὐχ ὡς ὁ Αἰσχύλου Τήλεφος “λέγει: 
ἐκεῖνος μὲν γὰρ ἁπλῆν οἶμόν φησιν εἰς “Αεδου 
φέρειν, 7 δ᾽ οὔτε ἁπλῆ οὔτε μία φαίνεταί μοι 
εἶναι. οὐδὲ γὰρ ἂν ἡγεμόνων ἔδει" οὐ γάρ πού τις 
ἂν διαμάρτοι οὐδαμόσε μιᾶς ὁδοῦ οὔσης. νῦν δὲ 
ἔοικε σχίσεις TE καὶ περιόδους πολλὰς ἔχειν" ἀπὸ 
τῶν ὁσίων τε καὶ νομίμων τῶν ἐνθάδε τεκμαιρό- 
μενος λέγω. 2 μὲν οὗν κοσμία τε καὶ “φρόνιμος 
ψυχὴ ἕπεταί τε καὶ οὐκ ἀγνοεῖ τὰ παρόντα" ἡ δ᾽ 
ἐπιθυμητικῶς τοῦ σώματος ἔχουσα, ὅπερ ἐν τῷ 
ἔμπροσθεν εἶπον, περὶ ἐκεῖνο πολὺν χρόνον 


370 


PHAEDO 


but in respect to all time, and if we neglect it, the 
danger now appears to be terrible. For if death 
were an escape from everything, it would be a boon 
to the wicked, for when they die they would be 
freed from the body and from their wickedness _ to- 
gether with their souls. But now, since the soul is 
seen to be immortal, it cannot escape from evil or be 
saved in any other way than by becoming as good 
and wise as possible. For the soul takes with it to 
the other world nothing but its education and nurture, 
and these are said to benefit or injure the departed 
greatly from the very beginning of his journey 
thither. And so it is said that after death, the tute- 
lary genius of each person, to whom he had been 
allotted in life, leads him to a place where the dead 
are gathered together; then they are judged and 
depart to the other world with the guide whose task 
it is to conduct thither those who come from this 
world ; and when they have there received their due 
and remained through the time appointed, another 
guide brings them back after many long periods of 
time. And the journey is not as Telephus says in 
the play of Aeschylus; for she says a simple path 
leads to the lower world, but I think the path is 
neither simple nor single, for if it were, there would 
be no need of guides, since no one could miss the way 
to any place if there were only one road. But 
really there seem to be many forks of the road and 
many windings; this I infer from the rites and 
ceremonies practised here on earth. Now the orderly 
and wise soul follows its guide and understands its 
circumstances; but the soul that is desirous of the 
body, as I said before, flits about it, and in the 
visible world for a long time, and after much resist- 


37% 


PLATO 


Β ἐπτοημένη καὶ περὶ τὸν ὁρατὸν τόπον, πολλὰ 
ἀντιτείνασα καὶ πολλὰ παθοῦσα, βίᾳ καὶ μόγις 
ὑπὸ τοῦ προστεταγμένου δαίμονος οἴχεται ἀγομένη. 
ἀφικομένην δὲ ὅθιπερ αἱ ἄλλαι, τὴν μὲν ἀκάθαρτον 
καί τι πεποιηκυῖΐαν τοιοῦτον, ἢ φόνων ἀδίκων 
ἡμμένην ἢ ἄλλ᾽ ἄττα τοιαῦτα εἰργασμένην, ἃ 
τούτων ἀδελφά τε καὶ ἀδελφῶν ψυχῶν ἔργα 
τυγχάνει ὄντα, ταύτην μὲν ἅπας φεύγει τε καὶ 
ὑπεκτρέπεται καὶ οὔτε ξυνέμπορος οὔτε ἡγεμὼν 

C ἐθέλει γίγνεσθαι, αὐτὴ δὲ πλανᾶται ἐν πάσῃ 
ἐχομένη ἀπορίᾳ, ἕως ἂν δή τινες χρόνοι γένωνται, 
ὧν ἐξελθόντων ὑ ὑπ᾽ ἀνάγκης φέρεται εἰς τὴν αὐτῇ 
πρέπουσαν οἴκησιν" ἡ δὲ καθαρῶς τε καὶ μετρίως 
τὸν βίον διεξελθοῦσα, καὶ ξυνεμπόρων καὶ 
ἡγεμόνων θεῶν τυχοῦσα, ῴκησεν τὸν αὐτῇ ἑκάστη 
τόπον προσήκοντα. εἰσὶν δὲ πολλοὶ καὶ θαυ- 
μαστοὶ τῆς “γῆς τόποι, καὶ αὐτὴ οὔτε οἵα οὔτε ὅση 
δοξάξεται ὑπὸ τῶν περὶ γῆς εἰωθότων λέγειν, ὡς 
ἐγὼ ὑπό τινος πέπεισμαι. 

D 58. Kat o Σιμμίας" Πῶς ταῦτα, ἔφη, λέγεις, 
ὧ Σώκρατες; περὶ γάρ τοι γῆς καὶ αὐτὸς πολλὰ 
δὴ ἀκήκοα, οὐ μέντοι ταῦτα ἃ σὲ πείθει" ἡδέως 
οὖν ἂν ἀκούσαιμι. ᾿Αλλὰ μέντοι, ὦ Σιμμία, οὐχὶ 
Ρλαύκου ,Τέχνη γέ μοι δοκεῖ εἶναι διηγήσασθαι 
ἅ γ᾽ ἐστίν" ὡς μέντοι ἀληθῆ, χαλεπώτερόν μοι 
φαίνεται. ἢ κατὰ τὴν Γλαύκου τέχνην, καὶ ἅμα 
μὲν ἐγὼ ἴσως οὐδ᾽ ἂν οἷός τε εἴην, ἅμα δέ, εἰ καὶ 
«ἠπιστάμην, ὁ βίος μοι δοκεῖ ὁ ἐμός, ὦ ὦ Σιμμία, τῷ 
μήκει τοῦ λόγου οὐκ ἐξαρκεῖ. τὴν μέντοι ἰδέαν 

E τῆς γῆς, οἵαν πέπεισμαι εἶναι, καὶ τοὺς τόπους 
αὐτῆς οὐδέν με κωλύει λέγειν. "ANN, ἔφη 0 
Σιμμίας, καὶ ταῦτα ἀρκεῖ. ἐπ πε π: τοίνυν, 


372 


PHAEDO 


ance and many sufferings is led away with violence 
and with difficulty by its appointed genius. And 
when it arrives at the place where the other souls 
are, the soul which is impure and has done wrong, by 
committing wicked murders or other deeds akin to 
those and the works of kindred souls, is avoided and 
shunned by all, and no one is willing to be its com- 
panion or its guide, but it wanders about alone in utter 
bewilderment, during certain fixed times, after which 
it is carried by necessity to its fitting habitation. But 
the soul that has passed through life in purity and 
righteousness, finds gods for companions and guides, 
and goes to dwell in its proper dwelling. Now there 
are many wonderful regions of the earth, and the 
earth itself is neither in size nor in other respects 
such as it is supposed to be by those who habitually 
discourse about it, as I believe on someone's 
authority.” 

And Simmias said, “ What do you mean, Socrates? 
I have heard a good deal about the earth myself, but 
not what you believe ; so I should like to hear it.” 

“ Well Simmias, I do not think I need the art of 
Glaucus to tell what it is. But to prove that it is 
true would, I think, be too hard for the art of Glaucus, 
and perhaps I should not be able to do it; besides, 
even if I had the skill, I think my life, Simmias, will 
end before the discussion could be finished. However, 
there is nothing to prevent my telling what I believe 
the form of the earth to be, and the regions in it.” 

“ Well,” said Simmias, “ that will be enovgh.” 

“1 am convinced, then,” said he, “ that in the first 


373 


109 


PLATO 


ἡ δ᾽ ὅς, ἐγώ, ὡς πρῶτον μέν, εἰ ἔστιν ἐν μέσῳ 
τῷ οὐρανῷ περιφερὴς οὖσα, μηδὲν αὐτῇ δεῖν μήτε 
ἀέρος πρὸς τὸ μὴ πεσεῖν μήτε ἄλλης ἀνάγκης 
μηδεμιᾶς τοιαύτης, ἀλλὰ ἱκανὴν εἶναι αὐτὴν 
ἴσχειν τὴν ὁμοιότητα τοῦ οὐρανοῦ αὐτοῦ ἑαυτῷ 
πάντῃ καὶ τῆς γῆς αὐτῆς τὴν ἰσορροπίαν' ἰσόρ- 
ροπον γὰρ πρᾶγμα ὁμοίου τινὸς ἐν μέσῳ τεθὲν 
οὐχ ἕξει μᾶλλον οὐδ᾽ ἧττον οὐδαμόσε κλιθῆναι, 
ὁμοίως δ᾽ ἔχον ἀκλινὲς μενεῖ. πρῶτον μέν, ἢ δ᾽ 
ὅς, τοῦτο πέπεισμαι. Καὶ ὀρθῶς γε, ἔφη ὁ 
Σιμμίας. “Ere τοίνυν, ἔφη, πάμμεγά Te εἶναι 
αὐτό, καὶ ἡμᾶς οἰκεῖν τοὺς μέχρι Ἡρακλείων 
στηλῶν ἀπὸ Φάσιδος ἐ ἐν σμικρῷ τινι μορίῳ, ὥσπερ 
περὶ τέλμα μύρμηκας ἢ βατράχους περὶ τὴν 
θάλατταν οἰκοῦντας, καὶ ἄλλους ἄλλοθι “πολλοὺς 
ἐν πολλοῖς τοιούτοις τόποις οἰκεῖν. εἶναι γὰρ 
πανταχῇ περὶ τὴν γῆν πολλὰ κοῖλα καὶ παντο- 
απὰ καὶ τὰς ἰδέας καὶ τὰ μεγέθη, εἰς ἃ ξυνερρυη- 
κέναι τό τε ὕδωρ καὶ τὴν ὁμίχλην καὶ τὸν ἀέρα" 
αὐτὴν δὲ τὴν γῆν καθαρὰν ἐ ἐν “καθαρῷ κεῖσθαι τῳ 
οὐρανῷ, ἐν ᾧπέρ ἐστι τὰ ἄστρα, ὃν δὴ αἰθέρα 
ὀνομάζειν τοὺς πολλοὺς τῶν περὶ τὰ τοιαῦτα 
εἰωθότων λέγειν: οὗ δὴ ὑποστάθμην ταῦτα εἶναι, 
καὶ ξυρρεῖν ἀεὶ εἰς τὰ κοῖλα τῆς γῆς. ἡμᾶς οὖν 
οἰκοῦντας ἐν τοῖς κοίλοις αὐτῆς λεληθέναι, καὶ 
οἴεσθαι ἄνω ἐπὶ τῆς γῆς οἰκεῖν, ὥσπερ ἂν εἴ τις 
ἐν μέσω τῶ πυθμένι τοῦ πελάγους οἰκῶν οἴοιτό τε 
ἐπὶ τῆς θαλάττης οἰκεῖν, καὶ διὰ τοῦ ὕδατος ὁρῶν 
τὸν ἥλιον καὶ τὰ ἄλλα ἄστρα τὴν θάλατταν 
ἡγοῖτο οὐρανὸν εἶναι, διὰ δὲ βραδυτῆτά τε καὶ 
ἀσθένειαν μηδεπώποτε ἐπὶ τὰ ἄκρα τῆς θαλάττης 
ἀφιγμένος μηδὲ ἑωρακὼς εἴη, ἐκδὺς ᾿καὶ ἀνακύψας 
374 


PHAEDO 


place, if the earth is round and in the middle of the 
heavens, it needs neither the air nor any other 
similar force to keep it from falling, but its own 
equipoise and the homogeneous nature of the heavens 
on all sides suffice to hold it in place; for a body 
which is in equipoise and is placed in the centre of 
something which is homogeneous cannot change its 
inclination in any direction, but will remain always 
in the same position. This, then, is the first thing of 
which I am convinced.” 

“ And rightly,” said Simmias. 

“ Secondly,” said he, “I believe that the earth is 
very large and that we who dwell between the 
pillars of Hercules and the river Phasis live in a small 
part of it about the sea, like ants or frogs about a 
pond, and that many other people live in many other 
such regions. For I believe there are in all directions 
on the earth many hollows of very various forms and 
sizes, into which the water and mist and air have run 
together; but the earth itself is pure and is situated 
in the pure heaven in which the stars are, the 
heaven which those who discourse about such matters 
call the ether; the water, mist and air are the sedi- 
ment of this and flow together into the hollows of 
the earth. Now we do not perceive that we live in 
the hollows, but think we live on the upper surface 
of the earth, just as if someone who lives in the depth 
of the ocean should think he lived on the surface of 
the sea, and, seeing the sun and the stars through 
the water, should think the sea was the sky, and 
should, by reason of sluggishness or feebleness, never 
have reached the surface of the sea, and should never 
have seen, by rising and lifting his head out of the 


375 


E 


110 


PLATO 


ἐκ τῆς θαλάττης εἰς τὸν ἐνθάδε τόπον, ὅσῳ 
καθαρώτερος καὶ καλλίων τυγχάνει ὧν τοῦ παρὰ 
σφίσι, μηδὲ ἄλλου ἀκηκοὼς εἴη τοῦ ἑωρακότος. 
ταὐτὸν δὴ τοῦτο καὶ ἡμᾶς πεπονθέναι" οἰκοῦντας 
γὰρ ἔν τινε κοίλῳ τῆς γῆς οἴεσθαι ἐπάνω αὐτῆς 
οἰκεῖν, καὶ τὸν ἀέρα οὐρανὸν καλεῖν, ὡς διὰ τούτου 
οὐρανοῦ ὄντος τὰ ἄστρα χωροῦντα" τὸ δὲ εἶναι 
ταὐτόν, ὑπ᾽ ἀσθενείας καὶ βραδυτῆτος οὐχ οἵους 
τε εἶναι ἡμᾶς διεξελθεῖν ἐπ᾿ ἔσχατον τὸν ἀέρα" 
ἐπεί, εἴ τις αὐτοῦ ἐπ᾽ ἄκρα ἔλθοι ἢ πτηνὸς 
γενόμενος ἀνάπτοιτο, κατιδεῖν ἂν ἀνακύψαντα, 
ὥσπερ ἐνθάδε οἱ ἐκ τῆς θαλάττης ἰχθύες ἀνακύ- 
πτοντες ὁρῶσι τὰ ἐνθάδε, οὕτως ἄν τινα καὶ τὰ 
ἐκεῖ κατιδεῖν, καὶ εἰ ἡ φύσις ἱκανὴ εἴη ἀνέχεσθαι 
θεωροῦσα, γνῶναι ἄν, ὅτι ἐκεῖνός ἐστιν ὁ ἀχηθῶς 
οὐρανὸς καὶ τὸ ἀληθῶς φῶς καὶ ἡ ὡς ἀληθῶς γῆ. 
ἥδε μὲν γὰρ ἡ γῆ καὶ οἱ λίθοι καὶ ἅπας ὁ τόπος ὁ 
ἐνθάδε διεφθαρμένα ἐστὶν καὶ καταβεβρωμένα, 
ὥσπερ τὰ ἐν τῇ θαλάττῃ ὑ ὑπὸ τῆς ἅλμης, καὶ οὔτε 
φύεται οὐδὲν ἄξιον λόγου ἐν τῇ θαλάττῃ, οὔτε 
τέλειον, ὡς ἔπος εἰπεῖν, οὐδέν ἐστι, σήραγγες δὲ 
καὶ ἄμμος καὶ πηλὸς ἀμήχανος καὶ βόρβοροί 
εἰσιν, ὅπου ἂν καὶ ἡ γῇ ἢ, καὶ πρὸς τὰ παρ᾽ ἡμῖν 
κάλλη κρίνεσθαι οὐδ᾽ ὁπωστιοῦν ἄξια" ἐκεῖνα δὲ 
av τῶν Tap ἡμῖν πολὺ ἂν ἔτι πλέον φανείη 
διαφέρειν. εἰ γὰρ δεῖ καὶ μῦθον λέγειν, ἄξιον 
ἀκοῦσαι, ὧ Σιμμία, οἷα τυγχάνει τὰ ἐπὶ τῆς 
γῆς ὑπὸ τῷ οὐρανῷ ὄντα. ᾿Αλλὰ μήν, ἔφη ὁ 
Σιμμίας, ὧ Σώκρατες, ἡμεῖς γε τούτου τοῦ 
μύθου ἡδέως ἂν ἀκούσαιμεν. 

ὅ9. Λέγεται τοίνυν, ἔφη, ὦ ἑταῖρε, πρῶτον 

1 Schanz, following Riickert, brackets εἶναι ταὐτόν. 


376 


PHAEDO 


sea into our upper world, and should never have 
heard from anyone who had seen, how much purer 
and fairer it is than the world he lived in. Now I 
believe this is just the case with us; for we dwell in 
a hollow of the earth and think we dwell on its 
upper suface ; and the air we call the heaven, and 
think that is the heaven in which the stars move. 
But the fact is the same, that by reason of feebleness 
and sluggishness, we are unable to attain to the upper 
surface of the air; for if anyone should come to the 
top of the air or should get wings and fly up, he 
could lift his head above it and see, as fishes lift their 
heads out of the water and see the things in our 
world, so he would see things in that upper world; 
and, if his nature were strong enough to bear the 
sight, he would recognise that that is the real heaven 
and the real light and the realearth. For this earth 
of ours, and the stones and the whole region where 
we live, are injured and corroded, as in the sea things 
are injured by the brine, and nothing of any account 
grows in the sea, and there is, one might say, nothing 
perfect there, but caverns and sand and endless mud 
and mire, where there is earth also, and there is 
nothing at all worthy to be compared with the 
beautiful things of our world. But the things in 
that world above would be seen to be even more 
superior to those in this world of ours. If I may tell 
a story, Simmias, about the things on the earth that 
is below the heaven, and what they are like, it is well 
worth hearing.” 

“By all means, Socrates,” said Simmias; “we 
should be glad to hear this story.” 

“Well then, my friend,” said he, “to begin with, 


377 


PLATO 


μὲν εἶναι τοιαύτη ἡ γῆ αὐτὴ ἰδεῖν, εἴ τις ἄνωθεν 
θεῷτο, ὥσπερ αἱ δωδεκάσκυτοι σφαῖραι, ποικίλη, 
χρώμασιν διειλημμένη, ὧν καὶ τὰ ἐνθάδε εἶναι 
χρώματα ὥσπερ δείγματα, οἷς δὴ οἱ γραφεῖς 
καταχρῶνται" ἐκεῖ δὲ πᾶσαν τὴν γῆν ἐκ τοιούτων 
εἶναι, καὶ πολὺ ἔτι ἐκ λαμπροτέρων καὶ καθαρω- 
τέρων ἢ τούτων᾽ τὴν μὲν “γὰρ ἁλουργῆ εἶναι καὶ 
θαυμαστὴν τὸ κάλλος, τὴν δὲ χρυσοειδῆ, τὴν δὲ 
ὅση λευκὴ γύψου ἢ χιόνος λευκοτέραν, καὶ ἐκ 
τῶν ἄλλων χρωμάτων συγκειμένην ὡσαύτως, καὶ 
ἔτι πλειόνων καὶ καλλιόνων ἢ ὅσα ἡμεῖς ἑωρά- 
καμεν. καὶ γὰρ αὐτὰ ταῦτα τὰ κοῖλα αὐτῆς 
ὕδατός τε καὶ ἀέρος ἔκπλεα ὄντα, χρώματός τι 
εἶδος παρέχεσθαι στίλβοντα ἐν τῇ τῶν ἄλλων 
χρωμάτων ποικιλίᾳ, ὥστε ἕν τι αὐτῆς εἶδος 
συνεχὲς ποικίλον φαντάξεσθαι. ἐν δὲ ταύτῃ OVEN 
τοιαύτῃ ἀνὰ λόγον τὰ φυόμενα φύεσθαι, δένδρα 
τε καὶ ἄνθη καὶ τοὺς καρπούς" καὶ αὖ τὰ ὄρη 
ὡσαύτως καὶ τοὺς λίθους ἔχειν ἀνὰ τὸν αὐτὸν 
λόγον τήν τε λειότητα καὶ τὴν διαφάνειαν καὶ 
τὰ χρώματα καλλίω" ὧν καὶ τὰ ἐνθάδε λιθίδια 
εἶναι ταῦτα τὰ ἀγαπώμενα μόρια, σάρδιά τε 
καὶ ἰάσπιδας καὶ σμαράγδους καὶ πάντα τὰ 
τοιαῦτα" ἐκεῖ δὲ οὐδὲν ὃ τι οὐ τοιοῦτον εἶναι καὶ 
ἔτι τούτων καλλίω. τὸ δ᾽ αἴτιον τούτου εἶναι, ὅτι 
ἐκεῖνοι οἱ λίθοι εἰσὶ καθαροὶ καὶ οὐ κατεδηδεσμένοι 
οὐδὲ διεφθαρμένοι ὥ ὥσπερ οἱ ἐνθάδε ὑπὸ σηπεδόνος 
καὶ ἅλμης" ὑπὸ τῶν δεῦρο ξυνερρυηκότων, ἃ ἃ καὶ 
λίθοις καὶ γῇ καὶ τοῖς ἄλλοις ζῴοις τε καὶ φυτοῖς 
αἴσχη τε καὶ νόσους παρέχει. τὴν δὲ γῆν αὐτὴν 
κεκοσμῆσθαι τούτοις τε ἅπασι καὶ ἔτι χρυσῷ καὶ 
1 Schanz brackets ὑπὸ σηπεδόνος καὶ ἅλμης. 


378 


PHAEDO 


the earth when seen from above is said to look like 
those balls that are covered with twelve pieces of 
leather ; it is divided into patches of various colours, 
of which the colours which we see here may be 
regarded as samples, such as painters use. But 
there the whole earth is of such colours, and they 
are much brighter and purer than ours; for one 
part is purple of wonderful beauty, and one is 
golden, and one is white, whiter than chalk or 
snow, and the earth is made up of the other 
colours likewise, and they are more in number 
and more beautiful than those which we see here. 
For those very hollows of the earth which are full of 
water and air, present an appearance of colour as they 
glisten amid the variety of the other colours, so that 
the whole produces one continuous effect of variety. 
And in this fair earth the things that grow, the trees, 
and flowers and fruits, are correspondingly beautiful ; 
and so too the mountains and the stones are smoother, 
and more transparent and more lovely in colour than 
ours. In fact, our highly prized stones, sards and 
jaspers, and emeralds, and other gems, are fragments 
of those there, but there everything is like these or 
still more beautiful. And the reason of this is that 
there the stones are pure, and not corroded or defiled, 
as ours are, with filth and brine by the vapours and 
liquids which flow together here and which cause 
ugliness and disease in earth and stones and animals 
and plants. And the earth there is adorned with all 
these jewels and also with gold and silver and every- 


ΕΥ̓, 


PLATO 


1Ὶ ἀργύρῳ καὶ τοῖς ἄλλοις αὖ τοῖς τοιούτοις. ἐκφανῆ 
γὰρ αὐτὰ πεφυκέναι, ὄντα πολλὰ πλήθει καὶ 
μεγάλα καὶ πολλαχοῦ τῆς γῆς, ὥστε αὐτὴν ἰδεῖν 
εἶναι θέαμα εὐδαιμόνων θεατῶν. ζῷα δ᾽ ἐπ᾽ αὐτῇ 
εἶναι ἄλλα τε πολλὰ; καὶ ἀνθρώπους, τοὺς μὲν ἐν 
μεσογαίᾳ οἰκοῦντας, τοὺς δὲ περὶ τὸν ἀέρα, ὥσπερ 
ἡμεῖς περὶ τὴν θάλατταν, τοὺς δ᾽ ἐν νήσοις ἃς 
περιρρεῖν τὸν ἀέρα πρὸς τῇ ἠπείρῳ οὔσας" καὶ ἑνὶ 
λόγῳ, ὅπερ ἡμῖν τὸ ὕδωρ πε καὶ ἡ θάλαττά ἐ ἐστι 
Β πρὸς τὴν ἡμετέραν χρείαν, τοῦτο ἐκεῖ τὸν ἀέρα, 
ὃ δὲ ἡ ἡμῖν ὁ ἀήρ, ἐκείνοις τὸν αἰθέρα. τὰς δὲ ὥρας 
αὐτῆς κρᾶσιν ἔχειν τοιαύτην, ὥστε ἐκείνους ἀνό- 
σους εἶναι καὶ χρόνον τε ζῆν πολὺ πλείω τῶν 
ἐνθάδε, καὶ ὄψει καὶ ἀκοῇ καὶ φρονήσει καὶ πᾶσι 
τοῖς τοιούτοις ἡμῶν ἀφεστάναι τῇ αὐτῇ ἀποστάσει, 
ἧπερ ἀήρ τε ὕδατος ἀφέστηκεν καὶ αἰθὴρ ἀέρος 
πρὸς καθαρότητα. καὶ δὴ καὶ θεῶν ἄλση τε καὶ 
ἱερὰ αὐτοῖς εἶναι, ἐν οἷς τῷ ὄντι οἰκητὰς θεοὺς 
εἶναι, καὶ φήμας τε καὶ μαντείας καὶ αἰσθήσεις 
τῶν θεῶν καὶ τοιαύτας συνουσίας ras he 
C αὐτοῖς πρὸς αὐτούς: καὶ τόν γε ἥλιον καὶ σελήνην 
καὶ ἄστρα “ὁρᾶσθαι ὑ ὑπ᾽ αὐτῶν οἷα τυγχάνει ὄντα, 
καὶ τὴν ἄλλην εὐδαιμονίαν τούτων ἀκόλουθον 
εἶναι. 

60. Καὶ ὅλην μὲν δὴ τὴν γῆν οὕτω πεφυκέναι 
καὶ τὰ περὶ τὴν γῆν" τόπους δ᾽ ἐν αὐτῇ εἶναι κατὰ 
τὰ ἔγκοιλα αὐτῆς κύκλῳ περὶ ὅλην πολλούς, τοὺς 
μὲν Babutépous Kal ἀναπεπταμένους μᾶλλον ἢ ἐν 
ᾧ ἡμεῖς ,οἰκοῦμεν, τοὺς δὲ βαθυτέρους ὄντας τὸ 
αὑτῶν χάσμα ἔλαττον ἔχειν τοῦ Tap ἡμῖν τόπου, 

D ἔστι δ᾽ ods καὶ βραχυτέρους τῷ βάθει τοῦ ἐνθάδε 
εἶναι καὶ πλατυτέρους: τούτους δὲ πάντας ὑπὸ 


380 


PHAEDO 


thing of the sort. For there they are in plain sight, 
abundant and large and in many places, so that the 
earth is a sight to make those blessed who look upon 
it. And there are many animals upon it, and men 
also, some dwelling inland, others on the coasts of 
the air, as we dwell about the sea, and others on 
islands, which:the air flows around, near the mainland ; 
and in short, what water and the sea are in our lives, 
air is in theirs, and what the air is to us, ether is to 
them. And the seasons are so tempered that people 
there have no diseases and live much longer than we, 
and in sight and hearing and wisdom and all such 
things are as much superior to us as air is purer than 
water or the ether than air. And they have sacred 
groves and temples of the gods, in which the gods 
really dwell, and they have intercourse with the 
gods by speech and prophecies and visions, and they 
see the sun and moon and stars as they really are, 
and in all other ways their blessedness is in accord 
with this. 

“Such then is the nature of the earth as a whole, 
and of the things around it. But round about the 
whole earth, in the hollows of it, are many regions, 
some deeper and wider than that in which we live, 
some deeper but with a narrower opening than ours, 
and some also less in depth and wider. Now all these 

381 


112 


PLATO 


γῆν εἰς ἀλλήλους συντετρῆσθαί Te πολλαχῇ Kal 
κατὰ στενότερα καὶ evpuTepa, καὶ διεξόδους ἔχειν, 
ἡ πολὺ μὲν ὕδωρ ῥεῖν ἐξ ἀλλήλων εἰς ἀλλήλους 
ὥσπερ εἰς κρατῆρας, καὶ ἀενάων ποταμῶν ἀμήχανα 
μεγέθη ὑπὸ τὴν γῆν καὶ θερμῶν ὑδάτων καὶ 
ψυχρῶν, πολὺ δὲ πῦρ καὶ πυρὸς μεγάλους ποτα- 
μούς, πολλοὺς δὲ ὑγροῦ πηλοῦ καὶ καθαρωτέρου 
καὶ βορβορωδεστέρου, ὥσπερ ἐν Σικελίᾳ οἱ πρὸ 
τοῦ ῥύακος πηλοῦ ῥέοντες ποταμοὶ καὶ αὐτὸς ὁ 
ῥύαξ: ὧν δὴ καὶ ἑκάστους τοὺς τόπους πληροῦ- 
σθαι, ὡς ἂν ἑκάστοις τύχῃ ἑκάστοτε ἡ περιρροὴ 
γιγνομένη. ταῦτα δὲ πάντα κινεῖν ἄνω καὶ κάτω 
ὥσπερ aiwpay τινὰ ἐνοῦσαν ἐν τῇ YT ἔστι δὲ ἄρα 
αὕτη ἡ αἰώρα διὰ φύσιν τοιάνδε τινά. ἕν τι τῶν 
χασμάτων τῆς γῆς ἄλλως τε μέγιστον τυγχάνει 
ὃν καὶ διαμπερὲς τετρημένον δι’ ὅλης τῆς γῆς, 
τοῦτο ὅπερ“ Ὅμηρος εἶπε, λέγων αὐτό 


τῆλε μάλ᾽, ἧχι βάθιστον ὑπὸ χθονός ἐστι 
βέρεθρον' 


ὃ καὶ ἄλλοθι καὶ ἐκεῖνος καὶ ἄλλοι πολλοὶ 
τῶν ποιητῶν Τάρταρον »κεκλήκασιν. εἰς γὰρ 
τοῦτο τὸ χάσμα συρρέουσί τε πάντες οἱ ποταμοὶ 
καὶ ἐκ τούτου πάλιν ἐκρέουσιν' “γίγνονται δὲ 
ἕκαστοι τοιοῦτοι, δι᾿ οἵας ἂν καὶ τῆς γῆς ῥέωσιν. 
ἡ δὲ αἰτία ἐστὶν τοῦ ἐκρεῖν τε ἐντεῦθεν καὶ εἰσρεῖν 
πάντα τὰ ῥεύματα, ὅτι πυθμένα οὐκ ἔχει οὐδὲ 
βάσιν τὸ ὑγρὸν τοῦτο. αἰωρεῖται. δὴ καὶ κυμαίνει 
ἄνω καὶ κάτω, καὶ ὁ ἀὴρ καὶ τὸ πνεῦμα τὸ περὶ 
αὐτὸ ταὐτὸν ποιεῖ: ξυνέπεται, γὰρ αὐτῷ καὶ ὅταν 
εἰς τὸ ἐπέκεινα τῆς γῆς ὁρμήσῃ καὶ ὅταν εἰς τὸ 


382 


PHAEDO 


are connected with one another by many subterra- 
nean channels, some larger and some smaller, which 
are bored in all of them, and there are passages 
through which much water flows from one to another 
as into mixing bowls; and there are everlasting 
rivers of huge size under the earth, flowing with 
hot and cold water; and there is much fire, and 
great rivers of fire, and many streams of mud, 
some thinner and some thicker, like the rivers 
of mud that flow before the lava in Sicily, and the 
lava itself. These fill the various regions as they 
happen to flow to one or another at any time. Now 
a kind of oscillation within the earth moves all these 
up and down. And the nature of the oscillation is 
as follows: One of the chasms of the earth is greater 
than the rest, and is bored right through the 
whole earth; this is the one which Homer means 
when he says: 


Far off, the lowest abyss beneath the earth ;! 


and which elsewhere he and many other poets have 
called Tartarus. For all the rivers flow together into 
this chasm and flow out of it again, and they have 
each the nature of the earth through which they flow. 
And. the reason why all the streams flow in and out 
here is that this liquid matter has no bottom or founda- 
tion. So it oscillates and waves up and down, and the 
air and wind about it do the same; for they follow 
the liquid both when it moves toward the other side 
of the earth and when it moves toward this side, and 


1 Homer, Iliad 8, 14, Lord Derby’s translation. 
383 


PLATO 


ἐπὶ τάδε, Kal ὥσπερ τῶν ἀναπνεόντων ἀεὶ ἐκπνεῖ 
τε καὶ ἀναπνεῖ ῥέον τὸ πνεῦμα, οὕτω καὶ ἐκεῖ 
ξυναιωρούμενον τῷ ὑγρῷ τὸ πνεῦμα δεινούς τινας 
ἀνέμους καὶ ἀμηχάνους παρέ evar καὶ εἰσιὸν καὶ 
ἐξιόν. ὅταν τε οὖν ὑποχωρήσῃ τὸ ὕδωρ εἰς τὸν 
τόπον τὸν δὴ κάτω καλούμενον, τοῖς κατ᾽ ἐκεῖνα 
τὰ ῥεύματα διὰ τῆς γῆς εἰσρεῖ τε καὶ “πληροῖ αὐτὰ 
ὥσπερ οἱ ἐπαντλοῦντες: ὅταν τε αὖ ἐκεῖθεν μὲν 
ἀπολίπῃ, δεῦρο δὲ ὁρμήσῃ, τὰ ἐνθάδε πληροῖ 
αὖθις, τὰ δὲ πληρωθέντα ῥ ῥεῖ διὰ τῶν ὀχετῶν καὶ 
διὰ τῆς γῆς, καὶ εἰς τοὺς τόπους ἕκαστα ἀφικνού- 
μενα, εἰς OS ἑκάστους ὁδοποιεῖται, θαλάττας τε 
καὶ λίμνας καὶ ποταμοὺς καὶ κρήνας ποιεῖ; 
ἐντεῦθεν δὲ πάλιν δυόμενα κατὰ τῆς γῆς, τὰ μὲν 
μακροτέρους τόπους περιελθόντα καὶ πλείους, τὰ 
δὲ ἐλάττους καὶ βρα υτέρους, πάλιν εἰς τὸν 
Τάρταρον ἐμβάλλει, τὰ μὲν πολὺ κατωτέρω ἢ 
ἐπηντλεῖτο, τὰ δὲ ὀλίγον" πάντα δὲ ὑποκάτω 
εἰσρεῖ τῆς ἐκροῆς. καὶ ἔνια μὲν καταντικρὺ ἡ 
ἐξέπεσεν εἰσρεῖ, ἔνια δὲ κατὰ τὸ αὐτὸ μέρος" ἔστι 
δὲ ἃ παντάπασιν κύκλῳ περιελθόντα, ἢ ἢ ἅπαξ ἢ ἢ 
καὶ πλεονάκις περιελιχθέντα περὶ τὴν γῆν ὥσπερ 
οἱ ὄφεις, εἰς τὸ δυνατὸν κάτω καθέντα πάλιν 
ἐμβάλλει. δυνατὸν δέ ἐστιν ἑκατέρωσε μέχρι τοῦ 
μέσου καθιέναι, πέρα δ᾽ ov: ἄναντες γὰρ ἀμφοτέ- 
ὍΣ τοῖς ῥεύμασι τὸ ἑκατέρωθεν γίγνεται. μέρος. 

Τὰ μὲν οὖν δὴ ἄλλα πολλά τε καὶ μεγάλα 
καὶ τλωδ δὰ ῥεύματά ἐστι" τυγχάνει δ᾽ ἄρα 
ὄντα ἐν τούτοις τοῖς πολλοῖς τέτταρ᾽ ἄττα ῥεύματα, 
ὧν τὸ μὲν μέγιστον καὶ ἐξωτάτω ῥέον κύκλῳ ὁ 
καλούμενος ᾿Ωκεανός ἐστιν, τούτου δὲ καταντικρὺ 
καὶ ἐναντίως ῥέων ᾿Αχέρων, ὃς δι’ ἐρήμων τε 
384 


PHAEDO 


just as the breath of those who breathe blows in and 
out, so the wind there oscillates with the liquid and 
causes terrible and irresistible blasts as it rushes in 
and out. And when the water retires to the region 
which we call the lower, it flows into the rivers there 
and fills them up, as if it were pumped into them; 
and when it leaves that region and comes back to this 
side, it fills the rivers here; and when the streams 
are filled they flow through the passages and through 
the earth and come to the various places to which 
their different paths lead, where they make seas and 
marshes, and rivers and springs. Thence they go 
down again under the earth, some passing around 
many great regions and others around fewer and 
smaller places, and flow again into Tartarus, some 
much below the point where they were sucked out, 
and some only alittle ; but all flow in below their exit. 
Some flow in on the side from which they flowed out, 
others on the opposite side ; and some pass completely 
around in a circle, coiling about the earth once or 
several times, like serpents, then descend to the 
lowest possible depth and fall again into the chasm. 
Now it is possible to go down from each side to the 
centre, but not beyond, for there the slope rises 
upward in front of the streams from either side of 
the earth. 

“ Now these streams are many and great and of all 
sorts, butamong the many are four streams, the greatest 
and outermost of which is that called Oceanus, which 
flows round in a circle, and opposite this, flowing in 
the opposite direction, is Acheron, which flows through 


385 


PLATO 


113 τόπων ῥεῖ ἄλλων καὶ δὴ καὶ ὑπὸ γῆν ῥέων εἰς τὴν 
λίμνην ἀφικνεῖται τὴν ᾿Αχερουσιάδα, of ai τῶν 
τετελευτηκότων ψυχαὶ τῶν πολλῶν ἀφικνοῦνται 
καί Twas εἱμαρμένους χρόνους μείνασαι, αἱ μὲν 

μακροτέρους, αἱ δὲ βραχυτέρους, πάλιν ἐκπέμ- 
πονται εἰς τὰς τῶν ζῴων γενέσεις. τρίτος δὲ 
ποταμὸς τούτων κατὰ μέσον ἐκβάλλει, καὶ ἐγγὺς 
τῆς ἐκβολῆς ἐκπίπτει εἰς τόπον μέγαν πυρὶ 
πολλῷ καιόμενον, καὶ λίμνην ποιεῖ μείξω τῆς παρ᾽ 
ἡμῖν θαλάττης, “ζέουσαν ὕδατος καὶ πηλοῦ" 
Β ἐντεῦθεν δὲ χωρεῖ κύκλῳ θολερὸς καὶ πηλώδης, 
περιελιττόμενος δὲ ἄλλοσέ τε ἀφικνεῖται καὶ παρ᾽ 
ἔσχατα ΤῊΣ ᾿Αχερουσιάδος λίμνης, οὐ συμμιγνύ- 
μενος τῷ ὕδατι" περιελιχθεὶς δὲ πολλάκις ὑπὸ 
vis. ἐμβάλλει κατωτέρω τοῦ Ταρτάρου: οὗτος δ᾽ 
ἐστὶν ὃν ἐπονομάξουσιν Πυριφλεγέθοντα, οὗ καὶ 
οἱ ῥύακες ἀποσπάσματα ἀναφυσῶσιν ὅπῃ ἂν 
τύχωσι τῆς ,Ὑῆς. τούτου δὲ αὖ καταντικρὺ ὁ 
τέταρτος ἐκπίπτει εἰς τόπον πρῶτον 1 δεινόν τε καὶ 
ἄγριον, ὡς λέγεται, χρῶμα δ᾽ ἔχοντα ὅλον οἷον ὁ 
C κυανός, ὃν δὴ ἐπονομάζουσι Στύγιον, καὶ τὴν 
λίμνην, ἣν ποιεῖ ὁ ποταμὸς ἐμβάλλων, Στύγα" ὁ 
᾿ ἐμπεσὼν ἐνταῦθα καὶ δεινὰς δυνάμεις λαβὼν a 
TO ὕδατι, δὺς κατὰ τῆς γῆς, περιελιττόμενος 
wpel ἐναντίος TO Πυριφλεγέθοντι καὶ ἀπαντᾷ ἐν 
τῇ ᾿Αχερουσιάδι. λίμνῃ a ἐναντίας" Kal οὐδὲ τὸ 
τούτου ὕδωρ οὐδενὶ μίγνυται, ἀλλὰ καὶ οὗτος 
κύκλῳ περιελθὼν ἐμβάλλει εἰς τὸν Τάρταρον 
ἐναντίος τῷ Πυριφλεγέθοντι" ὄνομα δὲ τούτῳ 
Ἰ ὡς οἱ ποιηταὶ λέγουσιν, Κωκυτός. 
D 2. Τούτων δὲ οὕτως πεφυκότων, ἐπειδὰν adi- 
1 Schanz brackets πρῶτον. 


386 


PHAEDO 


various desert places and, passing under the earth, 
comes to the Acherusian lake. To this lake the souls of 
most of the dead go and, after remaining there the 
appointed time, which is for some longer and for 
others shorter, are sent back to be born again into 
living beings. The third river flows out between 
these two, and near the place whence it issues it falls 
into a vast region burning with a great fire and 
makes a lake larger than our Mediterranean sea, 
boiling with water and mud. Thence it flows in a 
circle, turbid and muddy, and comes in its winding 
course, among other places, to the edge of the 
Acherusian lake, but does not mingle with its water. 
Then, after winding about many times underground, 
it flows into Tartarus at a lower level. This is the 
river which is called Pyriphlegethon, and the streams 
of lava which spout up at various places on earth are 
offshoots from it. Opposite this the fourth river 
issues, it is said, first into a wild and awful place, 
which is all of a dark blue colour, like lapis lazuli. 
This is called the Stygian river, and the lake which 
it forms by flowing in is the Styx. And when the 
river has flowed in here and has received fearful 
powers into its waters, it passes under the earth and, 
circling round in the direction opposed to that of 
Pyriphlegethon, it meets it coming from the other 
way in the Acherusian lake. And the water of this 
river also mingles with no other water, but this also 
passes round in a circle and falls into Tartarus oppo- 
site Pyriphlegethon. And the name of this river, as 
the poets say, is Cocytus. 

“ Such is the nature of these things. Now when 


387 


114 


PLATO 


KWVTAL οἱ τετελευτηκότες εἰς τὸν τόπον οἷ ὁ 
δαίμων ἕ ἕκαστον κομίξει, πρῶτον μὲν διεδικάσαντο 
οἵ τε καλῶς καὶ ὁσίως βιώσαντες καὶ οἱ μή. καὶ 
οἵ μὲν ἂν δόξωσι μέσως βεβιωκέναι, πορευθέντες 
ἐπὶ τὸν ᾿Αχέροντα, ἀναβάντες ἃ δὴ αὐτοῖς ὀχή- 
ματά ἐστιν, ἐπὶ τούτων ἀφικνοῦνται εἰς τὴν λίμνην, 
καὶ ἐκεῖ οἰκοῦσί τε καὶ καθαιρόμενοι τῶν τε 
ἀδικημάτων. διδόντες δίκας ἀπολύονται, εἴ τίς τι 
ἠδίκηκεν, τῶν τε εὐεργεσιῶν τιμὰς φέρονται κατὰ 
τὴν ἀξίαν ἕκαστος" οἱ δ᾽ ἂν δόξωσιν ἀνιάτως 
ἔχειν διὰ τὰ μεγέθη τῶν ἁμαρτημάτων, ἢ ἱερο- 
συλίας πολλὰς καὶ μεγάλας ἢ φόνους ἀδίκους καὶ 
παρανόμους πολλοὺς ἐξειργασμένοι, ἢ ἄλλα ὅσα 
τοιαῦτα τυγχάνει ὄντα, τούτους δὲ ἡ προσήκουσα 
μοῖρα ῥίπτει εἰς τὸν Τάρταρον, ὅθεν οὔποτε ἐκβαΐί- 
νουσιν. οἱ δ᾽ ἂν ἰάσιμα μέν, μεγάλα δὲ δόξωσιν 
ἡμαρτηκέναι ἁμαρτήματα, οἷον πρὸς πατέρα ἢ 
μητέρα ὑπ᾽ ὀργῆς βίαιόν τι πράξαντες, καὶ μετα- 
μέλον αὐτοῖς τὸν ἄλλον (βίον βιῶσιν, ἢ ἢ ἀνδροφόνοι 
τοιούτῳ τινὶ ἄλλῳ τρόπῳ γένωνται, τούτους δὲ 
ἐμπεσεῖν μὲν εἰς τὸν Τάρταρον ἀνάγκη, ἐμπεσόντας 
δὲ αὐτοὺς καὶ ἐνιαυτὸν ἐκεῖ γενομένους ἐκβάλλει 
τὸ κῦμα, τοὺς μὲν ἀνδροφόνους κατὰ τὸν Κωκυτόν, 
τοὺς δὲ πατραλοίας καὶ μητραλοίας κατὰ τὸν 
Πυριφλεγέθοντα" ἐπειδὰν δὲ φερόμενοι γένωνται 
κατὰ τὴν λίμνην τὴν ᾿Αχερουσιάδα, ἐνταῦθα 
βοῶσί τε καὶ καλοῦσιν, οἱ μὲν οὗς ἀπέκτειναν, 
οἱ δὲ ods ὕβρισαν, καλέσαντες δ᾽ ἱκετεύουσι καὶ 
δέονται ἐᾶσαι σφᾶς ἐκβῆναι εἰς τὴν λίμνην καὶ 
δέξασθαι, καὶ ἐὰν μὲν πείσωσιν, ἐκβαίνουσί τε 
καὶ λήγουσι τῶν κακῶν, εἰ δὲ μή, φέρονται αὖθις 
εἰς τὸν Τάρταρον καὶ ἐκεῖθεν πάλιν εἰς τοὺς ποτα- 


288 


PHAEDO 


the dead have come to the place where each is led 
by his genius, first they are judged and sentenced, as 
they have lived well and piously, or not. And those who 
are found to have lived neither well nor ill, go to the 
Acheron and, embarking upon vessels provided for 
them, arrive in them at the lake; there they dwell 
and are purified, and if they have done any wrong 
they are absolved by paying the penalty for their 
wrong doings, and for their good deeds they receive 
rewards, each according to his merits. But those 
who appear to be incurable, on account of the great- 
ness of their wrong-doings, because they have com- 
mitted many great deeds of sacrilege, or wicked and 
abominable murders, or any other such crimes, are 
cast by their fitting destiny into Tartarus, whence 
they neveremerge. Those, however, who are curable, 
but are found to have committed great sins—who 
have, for example, in a moment of passion done some 
act of violence against father or mother and have 
lived in repentance the rest of their lives, or who 
have slain some other person under similar condi- 
tions—these must needs be thrown into Tartarus, 
and when they have been there a year the wave 
casts them out, the homicides by way of Cocytus, 
those who have outraged their parents by way of 
Pyriphlegethon. And when they have been brought 
by the current to the Acherusian lake, they shout 
and cry out, calling to those whom they have slain 
or outraged, begging and beseeching them to be 
gracious and to let them come out into the lake ; and 
if they prevail they come out and cease from their 
ills, but if not, they are borne away again to Tartarus 
and thence back into the rivers, and this goes on 


389 


CQ 


PLATO 


μούς, καὶ ταῦτα πάσχοντες οὐ πρότερον παύονται, 
πρὶν ἂν πείσωσιν ovs ἠδίκησαν" αὕτη γὰρ ἡ ἡ δίκη 
ὑπὸ τῶν δικαστῶν αὐτοῖς ἐτάχθη. οἱ δὲ δὴ ἂν 
δόξωσι διαφερόντως πρὸς τὸ ὁσίως βιῶναι, οὗτοί 
εἰσιν οἱ τῶνδε μὲν τῶν τόπων τῶν ἐν τῇ γῇ ἐλευ- 
θερούμενοί τε καὶ ἀπαλλαττόμενοι ὥσπερ δεσμω- 
τηρίων, ἄνω δὲ εἰς τὴν καθαρὰν οἴκησιν ἀφικνούς- 
μενοι καὶ ἐπὶ γῆς οἰκιζόμενοι. τούτων δὲ αὐτῶν 
οἱ | φιλοσοφίᾳ ἱ ἱκανῶς καθηράμενοι ἄ ἄνευ τε σωμάτων 
ζῶσι τὸ παράπαν εἰς τὸν ἔπειτα χρόνον, καὶ εἰς 
οἰκήσεις ἔτι τούτων καλλίους ἀφικνοῦνται, ἃς 
οὔτε ,ῥάδιον δηλῶσαι οὔτε ὁ “Χρόνος ἱκανὸς ἐν τῷ 
παρόντι. ἀλλὰ τούτων δὴ ἕνεκα χρὴ ὧν διελη- 
λύθαμεν, ὦ Σιμμία, πᾶν ποιεῖν, ὥστε ἀρετῆς καὶ 
φρονήσεως ἐν τῷ βίῳ »μετασχεῖν' καλὸν γὰρ τὸ 
ἄθλον καὶ ἡ ἐλπὶς μεγάλη. 

63. To μὲν οὖν τοιαῦτα διεσχυρίσασθαι οὕτως 
ἔχειν, ὡς ἐγὼ διελήλυθα, οὐ πρέπει νοῦν ἔχοντι 
ἀνδρί: ὅτι μέντοι ἢ ταῦτ᾽ ἐστὶν ἢ τοιαῦτ᾽ ἅττα 
περὶ τὰς ψυχὰς ἡμῶν καὶ τὰς οἰκήσεις, ἐπείπερ 
ἀθάνατόν γε ἡ ψυχὴ φαίνεται οὖσα, τοῦτο καὶ 
πρέπειν μοι δοκεῖ καὶ ἄξιον κινδυνεῦσαι οἰομένῳ 
οὕτως ἔχειν" καλὸς γὰρ ὁ κίνδυνος" καὶ χρὴ τὰ 
τοιαῦτα ὥσπερ ἐπάδειν ἑαυτῷ, διὸ δὴ ἔγωγε καὶ 
πάλαι μηκύνω τὸν μῦθον. ἀλλὰ τούτων δὴ & ἕνεκα 
ἐλ χρὴ περὶ τῇ ἑαυτοῦ ψυχῇ ἄνδρα, ὅ ὅστις ἐν 

@ βίῳ τὰς μὲν ἄλλας ἡδονὰς τὰς περὶ τὸ σῶμα 
καὶ τοὺς κόσμους εἴασε χαίρειν, ὡς ἀλλοτρίους τε 
ὄντας, καὶ πλέον θάτερον ἡγησάμενος ἀπεργά- 
ζεσθαι, τὰς δὲ περὶ τὸ μανθάνειν ἐσπούδασέ τε 
καὶ κοσμήσας τὴν ψυχὴν οὐκ ἀλλοτρίῳ ἀλλὰ τῷ. 
αὐτῆς κόσμῳ, σωφροσύνῃ τε καὶ δικαιοσύνῃ καὶ 


39° 


PHAEDO 


until they prevail upon those whom they have 
wronged ; for this is the penalty imposed upon them 
by the judges. But those who are found to have 
excelled in holy living are freed from these regions 
within the earth and are released as from prisons ; 
they mount upward into their pure abode and dwell 
upon the earth. And of these, all who have duly 
purified themselves by philosophy live henceforth 
altogether without bodies, and pass to still more 
beautiful abodes which it is not easy to describe, nor 
have we now time enough. 

“ But, Simmias, because of all these things which 
we have recounted we ought to do our best to acquire 
virtue and wisdom in life. For the prize is fair and 
the hope great. 

“ Now it would not be fitting for a man of sense to 
maintain that all this is just as I have described it, 
but that this or something like it is true concerning 
our souls and their abodes, since the soul is shown to 
be immortal, I think he may properly and worthily 
venture to believe; for the venture is well worth 
while ; and he ought to repeat such things to himself 
as if they were magic charms, which is the reason 
why I have been lengthening out the story so long. 
This then is why a man should be of good cheer about 
his soul, who in his life has rejected the pleasures 
and ornaments of the body, thinking they are alien to 
him and more likely to do him harm than good, and 
has sought eagerly for those of learning, and after 
adorning his soul with no alien ornaments, but with its 
own proper adornment of self-restraint and justice and 


39! 


PLATO 


115 ἀνδρείᾳ καὶ ἐλευθερίᾳ καὶ “ἀληθείᾳ, οὕτω “περι- 
μένει τὴν εἰς “Αἰδουν πορείαν, ὡς πορευσόμενος 
ὅταν ἡ εἱμαρμένη καλῇ. ὑμεῖς μὲν οὖν, ἔφη, ὦ 
Σιμμία τε καὶ Κέβης καὶ οἱ ἄλλοι, εἰσαῦθις ἔν 
τινι χρόνῳ ἕκαστοι πορεύσεσθε: ἐμὲ δὲ νῦν ἤδη 
καλεῖ, φαίη ἂν ἀνὴρ τραγικός, ἡ εἱμαρμένη, καὶ 
σχεδόν τί μοι ὥρα τραπέσθαι πρὸς τὸ λουτρόν" 
δοκεῖ γὰρ δὴ βέλτιον εἶναι λουσάμενον πιεῖν τὸ 
φάρμακον. καὶ μὴ πράγματα ταῖς γυναιξὶ παρέχειν 
νεκρὸν λούειν. 

64. Tatra δὴ εἰπόντος αὐτοῦ ὁ Κρίτων" Εἶεν, 

Β ἔφη, ὧ Σώκρατες" τί δὲ τούτοις a ἐμοὶ ἐπι- 
στέλλεις ἢ περὶ τῶν παίδων ἢ περὶ ἄλλου του, 

ὅ τι ἄν σοι ποιοῦντες ἡμεῖς ἐν χάριτι μάλιστα 
ποιοῖμεν; “ATep | ἀεὶ λέγω, ἔφη, ὦ Κρίτων, οὐδὲν 
καινότερον" ὅτι ὑμῶν αὐτῶν ἐπιμελούμενοι ὑμεῖς 
καὶ ἐμοὶ καὶ τοῖς ἐμοῖς καὶ ὑμῖν αὐτοῖς ἐν χάριτι 
ποιήσετε ἅττ᾽ ἂν ποιῆτε, κἂν μὴ νῦν ὁμολογήσητε' 
ἐὰν δὲ ὑμῶν μὲν αὐτῶν ἀμελῆτε καὶ μὴ θέλητε 
ὥσπερ κατ᾽ ἴχνη κατὰ τὰ νῦν τε εἰρημένα καὶ τὰ 
ἐν τῷ ἔμπροσθεν χρόνῳ ζῆν, οὐδὲ ἐὰν πολλὰ 
σ ὁμολογήσητε ἐν τῷ παρόντι καὶ σφόδρα, οὐδὲν 
πλέον ποιήσετε. Ταῦτα μὲν τοίνυν προθυ- 
μηθησόμεθα, ἔφη, οὕτω ποιεῖν" θάπτωμεν δέ 
σε τίνα τρόπον; “Ὅπως ἄν, ἔφη, βούλησθε, 
ἐάνπερ γε λάβητέ με καὶ μὴ ἐκφύγω ὑμᾶς. 
γελάσας δὲ ἅμα ἡσυχῇ καὶ πρὸς ἡμᾶς ἀποβλέψας 
εἶπεν' Οὐ πείθω, ὦ ἄνδρες, Κρίτωνα, ὡς ἐγώ 
εἰμι οὗτος Σωκράτης, ὁ νυνὶ διαλεγόμενος καὶ 
διατάττων ἕ ἕκαστον τῶν λεγομένων, ἀλλ᾽ οἴεταί με 
ἐκεῖνον εἶναι, ὃν ὄψεται ὀλίγον ὕστερον. νεκρόν, 
D καὶ ἐρωτᾷ δή, πῶς με θάπτῃ. ὅτι δὲ ἐγὼ πάλαι 


392 


PHAEDO 


courage and freedom and truth, awaits his departure 
to the other world, ready to go when fate calls him. 
You, Simmias and Cebes and the rest,” he said, “ will 
go hereafter, each in his own time; but I am now 
already, as a tragedian would say, called by fate, and 
it is about time for me to go to the bath; for I think 
it is better to bathe before drinking the poison, that 
the women may not have the trouble of bathing 
the corpse.” 

When he had finished speaking, Crito said : “ Well, 
Socrates, do you wish to leave any directions with us 
about your children or anything else—anything we 
can do to serve you?” 

« What I always say, Crito,” he replied, “ nothing 
new: If you take care of yourselves you will serve me 
and mine and yourselves, whatever you do, even if 
you make no promises now; but if you neglect your- 
selves and are not willing to live following step by 
step, as it were, in the path marked out by our present 
and past discussions, you will accomplish nothing, 
no matter how much or how eagerly you promise 
at present. ” 

“We will certainly try hard to do as you say,” he 
replied. ‘ But how shall we bury you ?”’ 

“ However you please,” he replied, “if you can 
catch me and I do not get away from you.” And he 
laughed gently, and looking towards us, said : “I can- 
not persuade Crito, my friends, that the Socrates 
who is now conversing and arranging the details of 
his argument is really I; he thinks I am the one 
whom he will presently see as a corpse, and he asks 
how to bury me. And though I have been saying at 


393 


110 


PLATO 


πολὺν λόγον πεποίημαι, ὡς, ἐπειδὰν πίω TO 
φάρμακον, οὐκέτι ὑμῖν παραμενῶ, ἀλλ᾽ οἰχήσομαι 
ἀπιὼν εἰς μακάρων δή τινας εὐδαιμονίας, ταῦτά 
pot! δοκῶ αὐτῷ ἄλλως λέγειν, παραμυθούμενος 
ἅμα μὲν ὑμᾶς, ἅμα δ᾽ ἐμαυτόν. ἐγγυήσασθε οὖν 
με πρὸς Κρίτωνα, ἔφη, τὴν ἐναντίαν ἐγγύην 
n ἣν οὗτος πρὸς τοὺς δικαστὰς ἠγγυᾶτο. οὗτος 
μὲν γὰρ ἢ μὴν παραμενεῖν' ὑμεῖς δὲ ἦ μὴν μὴ 
παραμενεῖν ἐγγυήσασθε, ἐπειδὰν ἀποθάνω, ἀλλὰ 
οἰχήσεσθαι ἀπιόντα, ἵνα Κρίτων ῥᾷον φέρῃ, καὶ 
μὴ ὁρῶν μου τὸ σῶμα ἢ καιόμενον ἢ ἢ κατορυττό- 
μενον ἀγανακτῇ ὑπὲρ ἐμοῦ ὡς δεινὰ πάσχοντος, 
μηδὲ λέγῃ ἐν τῇ ταφῇ, ὡς ἢ προτίθεται Σωκράτη 
ἢ ἐκφέρει ἢ κατορύττει. εὖ γὰρ ἴσθι, ἢ δ᾽ ὅς, 
ὦ ἄριστε Κρίτων, τὸ μὴ καλῶς λέγειν οὐ μόνον 
εἰς αὐτὸ τοῦτο πλημμελές, ἀλλὰ καὶ κακόν τι 
ἐμποιεῖ ταῖς ψυχαῖς. ἀλλὰ θαρρεῖν τε χρὴ καὶ 
φάναι τοὐμὸν σῶμα θάπτειν, καὶ θάπτειν οὕτως 
ὅπως ἄν σοι φίλον ἡ καὶ μάλιστα ἡγῇ νόμιμον 
εἶναι. 

0ὅ. Ταῦτ᾽ εἰπὼν ἐκεῖνος μὲν ἀνίστατο εἰς οἴκημά 
τι ὡς λουσόμενος, καὶ ὁ Κρίτων εἴπετο αὐτῷ, 
ἡμᾶς δ᾽ ἐκέλευε περιμένειν. περιεμένομεν οὖν 
πρὸς ἡμᾶς αὐτοὺς διαλεγόμενοι περὶ τῶν εἰρη- 
μένων καὶ ἀνασκοποῦντες, τοτὲ δ᾽ αὖ περὶ τῆς 
ξυμφορᾶς διεξιόντες, ὅση ἡμῖν γεγονυῖα εἴη, 
ἀτεχνῶς ἡγούμενοι ὥσπερ πατρὸς στερηθέντες 
διάξειν ὀρφανοὶ τὸν ἔπειτα βίον. ἐπειδὴ δὲ ἐλού- 
σατο καὶ ἠνέχθη παρ᾽ αὐτὸν τὰ παιδία ---δύο γὰρ 
αὐτῷ υἱεῖς σμικροὶ ἦσαν, eis δὲ μέγας---καὶ αἱ 


1 Schanz, following Madvig, brackets μοι. 
394 


PHAEDO 


great length that after I drink the poison I shall no 
longer be with you, but shall go away to the joys of 
the blessed you know of, he seems to think that was 
idle talk uttered to encourage you and myself. So,” 
he said, “ give security for me to Crito, the opposite 
of that which he gave the judges at my trial ; for he 
gave security that I would remain, but you must give 
security that I shall not remain when I die, but shall 
go away, so that Crito may bear it more easily, and 
may not be troubled when he sees my body being 
burnt or buried, or think I am undergoing terrible 
treatment, and may not say at the funeral that he is 
laying out Socrates, or following him to the grave, or 
burying him. For, dear Crito, you may be sure that 
such wrong words are not only undesirable in them- 
selves, but they infect the soul with evil. No, you 
must be of good courage, and say that you bury my 
body,—and bury it as you think best and as seems to 
you most fitting.” 

When he had said this, he got up and went into 
another room to bathe; Crito followed him, but he 
told us to wait. So we waited, talking over with 
each other and discussing the discourse we had 
heard, and then speaking of the great misfortune 
that had befallen us, for we felt that he was like a 
father to us and that when bereft of him we should 
pass the rest of our lives as orphans. And when he 
had bathed and his children had been brought to him 
—for he had two little sons and one big one—and 


395 


PLATO 


οἰκεῖαι γυναῖκες ἀφίκοντο, ἐκείναις ἐναντίον" τοῦ 
Κρίτωνος διαλεχθείς τε καὶ ἐπιστείλας ἅττα 
ἐβούλετο, τὰς μὲν γυναῖκας καὶ τὰ παιδία a ἀπιέναι 
ἐκέλευσεν, αὐτὸς δὲ ἧκε Tap ἡμᾶς. καὶ ἦν ἤδη 
ἐγγὺς ἡλίου δυσμῶν" χρόνον γὰρ πολὺν διέτριψεν 
ἔνδον. ἐλθὼν δ᾽ ἐκαθέζετο λελουμένος, καὶ οὐ 
πολλὰ μετὰ ταῦτα διελέχθη, καὶ ἧκεν ὁ τῶν 
ἕνδεκα ὑπηρέτης καὶ στὰς παρ᾽ αὐτόν' Ὦ Σώ- 
κρατες, ἔφη, οὐ καταγνώσομαι σοῦ ὅπερ ἄλλων 
καταγιγνώσκω, ὅτι μοι χαλεπαίνουσι καὶ κατα- 
ρῶνται, ἐπειδὰν αὐτοῖς παραγγέλλω πίνειν τὸ 
φάρμακον ἀναγκαζόντων τῶν ἀρχόντων. σὲ δὲ 
ἐγὼ καὶ ἄλλως ἔγνωκα ἐν τούτῳ τῷ χρόνῳ γενναί- 
ότατον καὶ πραότατον καὶ ἄριστον ἄνδρα ὄντα 
τῶν πώποτε “δεῦρο ἀφικομένων, καὶ δὴ καὶ νῦν 
εὖ οἶδ᾽ ὅτι οὐκ ἐμοὶ χαλεπαίνεις, γυγνώσκεις γὰρ 
τοὺς αἰτίους, ἀλλὰ ἐκείνοις. νῦν, οἶσθα γὰρ ἃ ἃ 
ἦλθον ἀγγέλλων, χαῖρέ τε καὶ πειρῶ ὡς ῥᾷστα 
φέρειν τὰ ἀναγκαῖα. καὶ ἅμα δακρύσας μετα- 
στρεφόμενος ἀπήει. καὶ ὁ Σωκράτης ἀναβλέψας 
πρὸς αὐτόν, Καὶ σύ, ἔφη, χαῖρε, καὶ ἡμεῖς 
ταῦτα ποιήσομεν. καὶ ἅμα πρὸς ἡμᾶς, Ὥς 
ἀστεῖος, ἔφη, ὁ ἄνθρωπος" καὶ παρὰ πάντα μοι 
τὸν χρόνον προσήει καὶ διελέγετο ἐνίοτε καὶ ἦν 
ἀνδρῶν λῷστος, καὶ νῦν ὡς γενναίως με ἀπο- 
δακρύει. Pao ἄγε δή, ὦ Κρίτων, πειθώμεθα 
αὐτῷ, καὶ ἐνεγκάτω τις τὸ φάρμακον, εἰ τέτριπται' 
εἰ δὲ μή, τριψάτω ὃ “ἄνθρωπος. καὶ ὁ Κρίτων, 
"ANN οἶμαι, ἔφη, ἔγωγε, @ Σώκρατες, ἔτι 
ἥλιον εἶναι ἐπὶ τοῖς ὄρεσιν καὶ οὔπω δεδυκέναι. 


1 ἐναντίον ἐκείναις, Ebd. ἐναντίον ἐκεῖναι, BD. Schanz 
brackets ἐκεῖναι. ἐκείναις ἐναντίον Herrmann, Wobhlrab. 


396 


PHAEDO 


the women of the family had come, he talked with 
them in Crito’s presence and gave them such direc- 
tions as he wished; then he told the women to go 
away, and he came tous. And it was now nearly sunset ; 
for he had spent a long time within. And he came 
and sat down fresh from the bath. After that not 
much was said, and the servant of the eleven came 
and stood beside him and said : “ Socrates, I shall not 
find fault with you, as I do with others, for being 
angry and cursing me, when at the behest of the 
authorities, I tell them to drink the poison. No, I 
have found you in all this time in every way the 
noblest and gentlest and best man who has ever 
come here, and now I know your anger is directed 
against others, not against me, for you know who 
are to blame. Now, for you know the message I 
came to bring you, farewell and try to bear what 
you must as easily as you can.” And he burst into 
tears and turned and went away. And Socrates 
looked up at him and said : “ Fare you well, too; I 
will do as you say.” And then he said to us: “ How 
charming the manis! Ever since I have been here 
he has been coming to see me and talking with me 
from time to time, and has been the best of men, 
and now how nobly he weeps for me! But come, 
Crito, let us obey him, and let someone bring the 
poison, if it is ready ; and if not, let the man prepare 
it.” And Crito said: “ But I think, Socrates, the sun 
is still upon the mountains and has not yet set ; and 


397 


117 


PLATO 


Niet 9 \ τῷ Ν Μ / 5 Ν , 
καὶ ἅμα ἐγὼ οἶδα καὶ ἄλλους πάνυ ὀψὲ πίνοντας, 
ἐπειδὰν παραγγελθῇ αὐτοῖς, δειπνήσαντάς τε καὶ 
fe 
πιόντας εὖ μάλα, καὶ Evyyevopévous γ᾽ ἐνίους ὧν 
- / 
ἂν τύχωσιν ἐπιθυμοῦντες. ἀλλὰ μηδὲν ἐπείγου" 
“ ΄ / 
ἔτι γὰρ ἐγχωρεῖ. καὶ ὁ Σωκράτης, Eixotws 
Ud 4 A lal lal 
ye, ἔφη, ὦ Κρίτων, ἐκεῖνοί τε ταῦτα ποιοῦσιν, 
ovs σὺ λέγεις, οἴονται γὰρ κερδαίνειν ταῦτα ποιή- 
σαντες, καὶ ἔγωγε ταῦτα εἰκότως οὐ ποιήσω" 
οὐδὲν γὰρ οἶμαι κερδανεῖν ὀλίγον ὕστερον πιὼν 
» A / ’ ΄ > ᾽ A Le 
ἄλλο ye ἢ γέλωτα οφλήσειν παρ ἐμαυτῷ, YyALYO- 
μενος τοῦ ζῆν καὶ φειδόμενος οὐδενὸς ἔτι ἐνόντος. 
3 > ἴω Ν » 7, 
ἀλλ᾽ ἴθι, ἔφη, πιθοῦ καὶ μὴ ἄλλως ποίει. 
ε lal 
66. Kai ὁ Κρίτων ἀκούσας ἔνευσε τῷ παιδὶ 
πλησίον ἑστῶτι. καὶ ὁ παῖς ἐξελθὼν καὶ συχνὸν 
χρόνον διατρίψας ἧκεν ἄγων τὸν μέλλοντα διδόναι 
τὸ φάρμακον, ἐν κύλικι φέροντα τετριμμένον" 
> \ \ «ς , A ” ἐδ ww > 
ἰδὼν δὲ ὁ Σωκράτης τὸν ἄνθρωπον, Elev, ἔφη, ὦ 
/ 
βέλτιστε, σὺ yap τούτων ἐπιστήμων, TL χρὴ 
“ , \ ba Μ A , 2. 
ποιεῖν; Οὐδὲν ἄλλο, ἔφη, ἢ πιόντα περιιέναι, 
ἕως ἄν σου βάρος ἐν τοῖς σκέλεσι γένηται, ἔπειτα 
κατακεῖσθαι" καὶ οὕτως αὐτὸ ποιήσει. καὶ ἅμα 
Μ \ 4 A 4 si a \ 
ὦρεξε THY κύλικα τῷ Σωκράτει: καὶ ὃς λαβὼν 
¢ 3 
καὶ μάλα ἵλεως, ὦ Exyéxpates, οὐδὲν τρέσας οὐδὲ 
/ a a 
διαφθείρας οὔτε τοῦ χρώματος οὔτε τοῦ προσώ- 
? > cf wae \ 6 / 
που, ἀλλ᾽ ὥσπερ εἰώθει ταυρηδὸν ὑποβλέψας 
f a 
πρὸς Tov ἄνθρωπον, Ti λέγεις, ἔφη, περὶ τοῦδε 
a n , 
τοῦ πώματος πρὸς τὸ ἀποσπεῖσαί τινι; ἔξεστιν 
Xa ” a » 2 , , 
ἢ ov; Τοσοῦτον, ἔφη, ὦ Σώκρατες, τρίβομεν, 
ὅσον οἰόμεθα μέτριον εἶναι πιεῖν. Μανθάνω, 7 
Ἄς κα ᾽ τ᾿ ” 2 2 ΄ a ” , 
δ᾽ ὅς: ἀλλ᾽ εὔχεσθαί γέ που τοῖς θεοῖς ἔξεστί 
“ , n 
τε Kal χρή, τὴν μετοίκησιν τὴν ἐνθένδε ἐκεῖσε 
1 Schanz brackets εἰκότως, following Hirschig. 


398 


PHAEDO 


I know that others have taken the poison very late, 
after the order has come to them, and in the mean- 
time have eaten and drunk and some of them 
enjoyed the society of those whom they loved. Do 
not hurry ; for there is still time.” 

And Socrates said: “Crito, those whom you 
mention are right in doing as they do, for they 
think they gain by it; and I shall be right in not 
doing as they do; for I think I should gain nothing by 
taking the poison a little later. I should only make 
myself ridiculous in my own eyes if I clung to life 
and spared it, when there is no more profit in it. 
Come,” he said, “do as I ask and do not refuse.” 

Thereupon Crito nodded to the boy who was stand- 
ing near. The boy went out and stayed a long time, 
then came back with the man who was to administer 
the poison, which he brought with him in a cup ready | 
for use. And when Socrates saw him, he said: 
“ Well, my good man, you know about these things ; 
what must Ido?” “ Nothing,” he replied, “ except 
drink the poison and walk about till your legs feel 
heavy ; then lie down, and the poison will take effect 
of itself.” 

At the same time he held out the cup to Socrates. 
He took it, and very gently, Echecrates, without 
trembling or changing colour or expression, but look- 
ing up at the man with wide open eyes, as was his 
custom, said: “ What do you say about pouring a 
libation to some deity from this cup? May I, or 
not?’ “Socrates,” said he, “ we prepare only as much 
as we think is enough.” “I understand,’ 5814 
Socrates ; “ but I may and must pray to the gods 
that my departure hence be a fortunate one; so I 


399 


118 


PLATO 


εὐτυχῆ γενέσθαι" ἃ δὴ καὶ ἐγὼ εὔχομαί τε καὶ γέ- 
voLTo ταύτῃ. καὶ ἅμ᾽ εἰπὼν ταῦτα ἐπισχόμενος καὶ 
μάλα εὐχερῶς καὶ εὐκόλως ἐξέπιεν. καὶ ἡμῶν οἱ 
πολλοὶ τέως μὲν ἐπιεικῶς οἷοί τε ἦσαν κατέχειν 
τὸ μὴ δακρύειν, ὡς δὲ εἴδομεν πίνοντά τε καὶ 
πεπωκότα, οὐκέτι, ἀλλ᾽ ἐμοῦ γε βίᾳ καὶ αὐτοῦ 
ἀστακτὶ ἐχώρει τὰ δάκρυα, ὥ ὥστε ἐγκαλυψάμενος 
ἀπέκλαιον ἐμαυτόν' οὐ γὰρ δὴ ἐκεῖνόν γε, ἀλλὰ 
τὴν ἐμαυτοῦ τύχην, οἵου ἀνδρὸς ἑταίρου ἐστερη- 
μένος εἴην. ὁ δὲ Κρίτων ἔτι πρότερος ἐμοῦ, 
ἐπειδὴ οὐχ οἷός τ᾽ ἦν κατέχειν. τὰ δάκρυα, 
ἐξανέστη. ᾿Απολλόδωρος δὲ καὶ ἐν τῷ ἔμπρο- 
σθεν χρόνῳ οὐδὲν ἐπαύετο δακρύων, καὶ δὴ καὶ 
τότε ἀναβρυχησάμενος κλαίων Kat! ἀγανακτῶν 
οὐδένα ὅ ὅντινα οὐ κατέκλασε τῶν παρύντων πλήν 
γε αὐτοῦ Σωκράτους. ἐκεῖνος δέ, Οἷα, edn, 
ποιεῖτε, ὦ θαυμάσιοι. ἐγὼ μέντοι οὐχ ἥκιστα 
τούτου ἕνεκα τὰς γυναῖκας ἀπέπεμψα, ἵνα μὴ 
τοιαῦτα πλημμελοΐεν' καὶ γὰρ ἀκήκοα, ὅτι ἐν 
εὐφημίᾳ χρὴ τελευτᾶν. ἀλλ᾽ ἡσυχίαν τε ἄγετε 
καὶ καρτερεῖτε. καὶ ἡμεῖς ἀκούσαντες ἠσχύνθη- 
μέν τε καὶ ἐπέσχομεν τοῦ δακρύειν. ὁ δὲ περιελ- 
θών, ἐπειδή οἱ βαρύνεσθαι ἔφη τὰ σκέλη, κατε- 
κλίθη ὕπτιος" οὕτω γὰρ ἐκέλευεν ὁ ἄνθρωπος: 
καὶ ἅμα ἐφαπτόμενος αὐτοῦ οὗτος ὁ δοὺς τὸ 
φάρμακον," διαλιπὼν χρόνον ἐπεσκόπει τοὺς πόδας 
καὶ τὰ σκέλη, κἄπειτα σφόδρα πιέσας αὐτοῦ τὸν 
πόδα ἤρετο, εἰ αἰσθάνοιτο" 0 δ᾽ οὐκ ἔφη: καὶ μετὰ 
τοῦτο αὖθις τὰς κνήμας: καὶ ἐπανιὼν οὕτως ἡμῖν 


1 Schanz brackets κλαίων καὶ. 
2 Schanz follows Upton and others in bracketing οὗτος. 


φάρμακον. 
4οο 


PHAEDO 


offer this prayer, and may it be granted.” With these 
words he raised the cup to his lips and very cheer- 
fully and quietly drained it. Up to that time most 
of us had been able to restrain our tears fairly well, 
but when we watched him drinking and saw that he 
had drunk the poison, we could do so no longer, but 
in spite of myself my tears rolled down in floods, so 
that I wrapped my face in my cloak and wept for my- 
self; for it was not for him that I wept, but for my own 
misfortune in being deprived of such a friend. Crito 
had got up and gone away even before I did, because 
he could not restrain his tears. But Apollodorus, 
who had been weeping all the time before, then 
wailed aloud in his griefand made us all break down, 
except Socrates himself. But he said, “ What con- 
duct is this, you strange men! I sent the women 
away chiefly for this very reason, that they might not 
behave in this absurd way; for I have heard that it 
is best to die in silence. Keep quiet and be brave.” 
Then we were ashamed and controlled our tears. 
He walked about and, when he said his legs were 
heavy, lay down on his back, for such was the advice 
of the attendant. The man who had administered 
the poison laid his hands on him and after a 
while examined his feet and legs, then pinched his 
foot hard and asked if he felt it. Hesaid “No”; 
then after that, his thighs; and passing upwards in 


401 


PLATO 


ἐπεδείκνυτο, ὅτι ψύχοιτό τε καὶ πηγνῦτο. καὶ 
αὖθις 1 ἥπτετο καὶ εἶπεν ὅτι, ἐπειδὰν πρὸς τῇ 
καρδίᾳ γένηται, αὐτῷ, τότε οἰχήσεται. ἤδη οὖν 
σχεδόν τι αὐτοῦ ἦν τὰ περὶ τὸ ἦτρον ψυχόμενα, 
καὶ ἐκκαλυψάμενος, ἐνεκεκάλυπτο γάρ, εἶπεν, 
ὃ δὴ τελευταῖον ἐφθέγξατο: ἾὮ Κρίτων, ἔφη, 
τῷ ᾿Ασκληπιῷ ὀφείλομεν ἀλεκτρυόνα: ἀλλὰ 
ἀπόδοτε καὶ μὴ ἀμελήσητε. ᾿Αλλὰ ταῦτα, 
ἔφη, ἔσται, ὁ Κρίτων" ἀλλ᾽ ὅρα, εἴ τι ἄλλο 
λέγεις. ταῦτα ἐρομένου αὐτοῦ οὐδὲν ἔτι ἀπεκρί- 
νατο, ἀλλ᾽ ὀλίγον χρόνον διαλιπὼν ἐκινήθη τε καὶ 
ὁ ἄνθρωπος ἐξεκάλυψεν αὐτόν, καὶ ὃς τὰ ὄμματα 
ἔστησεν" ἰδὼν δὲ ὁ Κρίτων συνέλαβε τὸ στόμα 
καὶ τοὺς ὀφθαλμούς. 

67. “Hée ἡ τελευτή, ὦ ᾿Εχέκρατες, τοῦ ἑταίρου 
ἡμῖν ἐγένετο, ἀνδρός, ὡς ἡμεῖς φαῖμεν ἄν, τῶν 
τότε ὧν ἐπειράθημεν ἀρίστου καὶ ἄλλως 2 φρονι- 
μωτάτου καὶ δικαιοτάτου. 


1 αὖθις, Forster. αὐτὸς, BODE. αὖ, Schanz 
2 Schanz brackets ἄλλως. 


402 


PHAEDO 


this way he showed us that he was growing cold and 
rigid. And again he touched him and said that when 
it reached his heart, he would be gone. The 
chill had now reached the region about the groin, 
and uncovering his face, which had been covered, he 
said—and these were his last words—“ Crito, we owe 
a cock to Aesculapius. Pay it and do not neglect it.” 
“That,” said Crito, “shall be done; but see if you 
have anything else to say.” To this question he 
made no reply, but after a little while he moved ; the 
attendant uncovered him ; his eyes were fixed. And 
Crito when he saw it, closed his mouth and eyes. 

Such was the end, Echecrates, of our friend, who 
was, aS we may Say, of all those of his time whom we 
have known, the best and wisest and most righteous 
man. 


403 


Hal hens annie: διδξδα ἠέ madi fei Ἰῶξεινυρόμον 


Spee αν adie skein Binh 251 anew psailtdins tae 


Vaal (sctfon abbas Me TsigaloeiA ar’ 
ΓΝ ον ΟΣ ΓΝ 


at geet srt = νΝ gia) Pah apilene Re 
srl de: bayer: af eit aint ή ἘΠ tin) ὧι Lt On 
ΟΣ ΨΥ ΥΕΡ παν μῶν Lite 
ῇ ἡ Φϑὼθ ἔμ». ΠῚ vill Beetle 2h wae od darter edit: 
Ὁ ἠτ δ ἦν sho Soryeedaviat: ‘daa entre naw ῥδοχβον 
Φμἰιοα όνφαδ οὐδ te ϑεσδὲ INA Tee ἀονρυ νὰ μῶν 
ain Side AN aNd Al Agel” 
ie 4) Peers in paw 
Reve; Forti at TOP) ’ at, να, 


δ δὲ τίνι bX 


’ 


PHAEDRUS 


ΝΙΝ 


= «a4; 


᾿ 
᾿ 
᾿ 
τ - 
τυ! 
᾿ 
ι1] 
at 


INTRODUCTION TO THE PHAEDRUS 


Tue Phaedrus is pre-eminent among the dialogues 
of Plato for the variety of its contents and style, the 
richness of its imaginative description, and the 
sportive humour of its conversation. The chief 
theme of the dialogue is rhetoric, the art of speaking, 
a subject which formed an important part of the oral 
and written instruction of the sophists. Plato, and 
herein he agrees with the sophists, assumes that the 
result aimed at by rhetoric is persuasiveness, ability 
to lead the minds of the hearers to a particular 
belief or action. For the attainment of this result, 
the sophists claimed that knowledge of the truth 
concerning the subject under discussion is not 
essential ; all that is necessary is ability to make 
one’s conclusions seem probable. Plato shows that 
only the man who knows the truth can know what 
will seem probable; and he must also know the 
minds or souls to be persuaded. This he cannot do 
without a knowledge of the nature of the soul. Now 
knowledge of the truth concerning the various 
subjects of discourse and knowledge of all the 
different classes of human souls must be supple- 
mented by knowledge of the different kinds of 
argument and of the various niceties of speech 
taught by the sophists. Only he who has acquired 
all this knowledge is a perfect orator, so far as 
perfection is attainable by man; but the acquisition 


407 


INTRODUCTION TO THE PHAEDRUS 


of this knowledge is a great task, which no one 
would undertake merely for the purpose of per- 
suading his fellows ; a higher purpose, the perfection 
of his soul and the desire to serve the gods, must 
animate the spirit of the student of the real art of 
rhetoric. 

But if rhetoric is the chief theme of the dialogue, 
it is not by any means the only theme. The 
rationalistic (Euhemeristic) explanation of myths is 
briefly discussed and rejected, the higher and lower 
forms of love are analysed, the nature of the soul is 
described in the beautiful figure of the charioteer 
and his two horses, and here, asin the Phaedo, the 
doctrine of ideas and its derivative, the doctrine of 
reminiscence, are intimately connected with the 
description of the life of the soul. Yet, formally, at 
any rate, the other subjects of the dialogue are 
subordinate to the discussion of rhetoric. The 
processes of collection and division, by which a 
number of particulars may be brought together under 
one head and a general concept may be divided, are 
clearly stated. The latter is of such importance in 
the dialectic method, which for Plato was the only 
correct method of reasoning, that we may well 
believe the discussion of rhetoric to have been under- 
taken in part for the purpose of giving a concise and 
clear statement of this principle. 

In this dialogue, as in the Phaedo, we find the 
soul justly rewarded or punished for conduct in this 
life ; but the soul is here described as made up of a 
charioteer and two horses, whereas in the Phaedo it 
is one and indivisible; but the description of the 
soul in the Phaedrus is confessedly and obviously 
figurative, and the simple, uniform nature of the soul 


408 


INTRODUCTION TO THE PHAEDRUS 


is arrived at in the Phaedo by serious argument. It 
is therefore evident that Plato did not consider the 
soul a composite creature, but a single being. The 
two horses, then, represent not distinct parts of the 
soul, but modes of the soul as it is affected by its 
contact with the body; the good horse typifies the 
influence of the emotions, the bad horse that of the 
appetites, and the charioteer is reason. It is 
important to bear in mind that the description of 
the soul in the Phaedrus is figurative, otherwise we 
are involved in hopeless confusion in any attempt to 
determine Plato’s conception of the soul. Since the 
Phaedo and the Phaedrus were probably written 
about the same time, no real disagreement between 
them is to be assumed. 

The first of the three discourses on love is ascribed 
to the famous orator, Lysias, son of Cephalus, and 
the question has been’ much discussed whether it is 
really a work of Lysias which Plato has inserted 
here. All the extant speeches of Lysias were com- 
posed to be spoken in court or at least on public 
occasions. We have no specimen of a discourse 
written by him purely as an example of his skill or 
for the delectation of his audience, nor do we know 
that he ever wrote such discourses. The discourse 
on love is certainly in the style of Lysias, that is to 
say, it approaches the style of his extant speeches as 
nearly as a discourse on such a subject can be 
expected to approach the style of a speech intended 
for delivery in a court of law; but Plato was a 
consummate literary artist, and there is surely every 
reason to believe that he could imitate the style of 
Lysias if he chose. Similarity to the style of Lysias 
is therefore no sufficient reason for the belief that 


409 


INTRODUCTION TO THE PHAEDRUS 


the discourse is not Plato's composition, especially as 
the introduction of a genuine discourse by Lysias 
would impair the unity, and, to a certain extent, the 
dignity of the dialogue. 

Toward the end of the Phaedrus, Plato inserts a 
remarkable discussion of the relative value of the 
spoken and the written word. It is somewhat 
startling to find so voluminous a writer maintaining 
that the written word is only a plaything, or, at best, 
a reminder; yet this must, apparently, be accepted 
as his deliberate judgment. In the Academy he 
laid great stress upon oral instruction, and this 
passage seems to indicate that he considered that 
instruction more important than his writings. It is 
interesting to find this judgment of the written 
word in a dialogue in which the playful element is 
so strong. 

Of Phaedrus, the only interlocutor and the sole 
audience of Socrates in this dialogue, little or nothing 
is known except what we learn from Plato. He was 
the son of Pythocles, of the Attic deme of Myrrhinus. 
He appears in several dialogues of Plato as a follower 
of Socrates, but no writings of his are extant, if any 
ever existed. Diogenes Laertius (iii., 29, 31), speaks 
of him as Plato’s favourite. Some of the persons 
mentioned in the dialogue are so well known that no 
further account of them is necessary. Such are the 
great orator Lysias, the sophist and rhetorician 
Gorgias of Leontini, the philosopher Zeno of Elea 
(who masquerades under the name of Palamedes, 
261 p), the distinguished sophist Protagoras of 
Abdera, Hippocrates, the “father of medicine,” and 
the rhetorician, orator, and sage Isocrates.. Acumenus 
and his son, Eryximachus, were Athenian physicians, 


410 


INTRODUCTION TO THE PHAEDRUS 


Herodicus was a physician of Megara, Morychus was 
an Athenian of some means, whose house had 
apparently been bought by Epicrates, who is 
described by a scholiast as an orator and demagogue. 
The other persons mentioned, Tisias of Sicily, 
Thrasymachus of Chalcedon, Theodorus of Byzantium, 
Evenus of Paros, Prodicus of Ceos, Hippias of Elis, 
Polus of Agrigentum, and his teacher, Licymnius, 
were all sophists and rhetoricians, whose inventive- 
ness in the matter of rhetorical nomenclature is 
ridiculed. 

Separate editions of the Phaedrus are few. The 
only one which appears to demand special mention 
is that of W. H. Thompson (1868). 


St. 
16} 
p. 227 


A 


ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ 


[ΠΗ ΠΕΡῚ ΚΑΛΟΥ͂: ΗΘΙΚΟΣ] 


TA ΤΟΥ ΔΙΑΛΟΓΟΥ ΠΡΟΣΏΠΑ 
ZQKPATHS KAI ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ 


1. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ὦ φίλε Daidpe, ποῖ δὴ καὶ πόθεν; 

ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ. Παρὰ Λυσίου, ὦ Σώκρατες, τοῦ 
Κεφάλου: πορεύομαι δὲ πρὸς περίπατον ἔξω 
τείχους. συχνὸν γὰρ ἐκεῖ διέτρειψα χρόνον καθή- 
μενος ἐξ ἑωθινοῦ: τῷ δὲ σῷ καὶ ἐμῷ ἑταίρῳ 
πειθόμενος ᾿Ακουμενῷ κατὰ τὰς ὁδοὺς ποιοῦμαι 
τοὺς περιπάτους: φησὶ γὰρ ἀκοπωτέρους εἶναι 
τῶν ἐν τοῖς δρόμοις. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Καλῶς γάρ, ὦ ἑταῖρε, λέγει. ἀτὰρ 
Λυσίας ἣν, ὡς ἔοικεν, ἐν ἄστει. 

, δ᾽ 3 ve 3 A A 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Nai, map ᾿Επικράτει, ἐν τῇδε τῇ 
πλησίον τοῦ ᾿Ολυμπίου οἰκίᾳ τῇ Μορυχίᾳ 

η τυμπίου οἰκίᾳ τῇ Μορυχίᾳ. 

e 4 nr 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τίς οὖν δὴ ἣν ἡ διατριβή; ἢ δῆλον 
ὅτε τῶν λόγων ὑμᾶς Λυσίας εἱστία; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Πεύσει, εἴ σοι σχολὴ προϊόντι 
ἀκούειν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί δέ; οὐκ ἂν οἴει με κατὰ Πίν- 
412 


PHAEDRUS 
for ON THE BEAUTIFUL, eruicat] 


CHARACTERS 
SocRaTES, PHAEDRUS 


socraTes. Dear Phaedrus, whither away, and 
where do you come from ? 

PHAEDRUS. From Lysias, Socrates, the son of 
Cephalus ; and I am going for a walk outside the wall. 
For I spent a long time there with Lysias, sitting 
since early morning; and on the advice of your 
friend and mine, Acumenus, I am taking my walk 
on the roads; for he says they are less fatiguing 
than the streets. 

socraTes. He is right, my friend. Then Lysias, 
it seems, was in the city? 

PpHAEDRus. Yes, at Epicrates’ house, the one that 
belonged to Morychus, near the Olympieum. 

socRATES. What was your conversation? But it 
is obvious that Lysias entertained you with his 
speeches. 

PHAEDRUS. You shall hear, if you have leisure to 
walk along and listen. 

socRATES. What? Don’t you believe that I 


413 


228 


PLATO 


Sapov καὶ ἀσχολίας ὑπέρτερον πρᾶγμα ποιήσα. 
σθαι τὸ σήν τε καὶ Λυσίου διατριβὴν ἀκοῦσαι; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. [Π]ρόαγε δή. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. λέγοις ἄν. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Καὶ μήν, ὦ Σώκρατες, προσήκουσά 
γέ σοι ἡ ἀκοή. ὁ γάρ TOL λόγος ἦν, περὶ ὃν 
διετρίβομεν, οὐκ οἶδ᾽ ὅντινα τρόπον ἐρωτικός. 
γέγραφε yap δὴ ὁ Λυσίας πειρώμενόν τινα τῶν 
καλῶν, οὐχ ὑπ᾽ ἐραστοῦ δέ, ἀλλ᾽ αὐτὸ δὴ τοῦτο 
καὶ κεκόμψευται" λέγει γὰρ ὡς χαριστέον μὴ 
ἐρῶντι μᾶλλον ἢ ἐρῶντι. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. “QD “γενναῖος, εἴθε γράψειεν ὡς χρὴ 
πένητι μᾶλλον ἢ πλουσίῳ, καὶ πρεσβυτέρῳ ἢ 
νεωτέρῳ, καὶ ὅσα ἄλλα ἐμοί τε πρόσεστι καὶ τοῖς 
πολλοῖς ἡμῶν' ἦ γὰρ ἂν ἀστεῖοι καὶ δημωφελεῖς 
εἶεν οἱ λόγοι. ἔγωγ᾽ οὖν οὕτως ἐπιτεθύμηκα 
ἀκοῦσαι, ὥστ᾽ ἐὰν βαδίζων ποιῇ τὸν περίπατον 
Μέγαράδε, καὶ κατὰ ΗἩρόδικον προσβὰς τῷ τείχει 
πάλιν ἀπίῃς, οὐ μή σου ἀπολειφθῶ. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Πῶς λέγεις, ὦ βέλτιστε Σώκρατες; 
οἴει με, ἃ Λυσίας ἐν πολλῷ χρόνῳ κατὰ σχολὴν 
συνέθηκε, δεινότατος ὧν τῶν νῦν γράφειν, ταῦτα 
ἰδιώτην ὄντα ἀπομνημονεύσειν ἀξίως ἐκείνου; 


1 Pindar Isthm. i. 1. Μᾶτερ ἐμά, τὸ τεόν, χρύσασπι Θήβα, 
πρᾶγμα καὶ ἀσχολίας ὑπέρτερον θήσομαι. ““ My mother, Thebes 
of the golden shield, I will consider thy interest greater even 
than business.” 

2 Herodicus, Sch. : ἰατρὸς ἦν καὶ τὰ γυμνάσια ἔξω τείχους 
ἐποιεῖτο, ἀρχόμενος ἀ ἀπό τινος διαστήματος οὐ μακροῦ ἀλλὰ συμμέ- 
Tpov, ἄχρι τοῦ τείχους, καὶ ἀναστρέφων. ‘* He was ἃ physician 
and exercised outside the wall, beginning at some distance, 


not great but moderate, going as iar as the wall and turning 
back.” 


41:4 


PHAEDRUS 


consider hearing your conversation with Lysias “a 
greater thing even than business,” as Pindar says ἢ] 

PHAEDRus. Lead on, then. 

SOCRATES. Speak. 

PHAEDRUs. Indeed, Socrates, you are just the 
man to hear it. For the discourse about which we 
conversed, was in a way, a love-speech. For Lysias 
has represented one of the beauties being tempted, 
but not by a lover; this is just the clever thing 
about it; for he says that favours should be granted 
rather to the one who is not in love than to tne 
lover. 

socrates. Ο noble Lysias! I wish he would 
write that they should be granted to the poor rather 
than to the rich, to the old rather than to the young, 
and so of all the other qualities that I and most of 
us have; for truly his discourse would be witty and 
of general utility. Iam so determined to hear you, 
that I will not leave you, even if you extend your 
walk to Megara, and, as Herodicus says, go to the 
wall and back again.? 

PHAEDRUS. What are you saying, my dear Socrates * 
Do you suppose that I, who am a mere ordinary 
man, can tell from memory, in a way that is worthy 
of Lysias, what he, the cleverest writer of our day, 
composed at his leisure and took a long time for? 


415 


PLATO 


πολλοῦ γε δέω: καί τοι ἐβουλόμην γ᾽ ἂν μᾶλλον 
ἤ μοι πολὺ χρυσίον γενέσθαι. 

2. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ὁ Φαῖδρε, εἰ ἐγὼ Φαῖδρον 
ἀγνοῶ, καὶ ἐμαυτοῦ ἐπιλέλησμαι. ἀλλὰ γὰρ 
οὐδέτερά ἐστι τούτων’ εὖ olda ὅτι Λυσίου λόγον 
ἀκούων ἐκεῖνος οὐ μόνον ἅπαξ ἤκουσεν, ἀλλὰ 
πολλάκις ἐπαναλαμβάνων ἐκέλευέν οἱ λέγειν" ὁ δὲ 
ἐπείθετο προθύμως. τῷ δὲ οὐδὲ ταῦτα ἣν ἱκανά, 
ἀλλὰ τελευτῶν παραλαβὼν τὸ βιβλίον ἃ μάλιστα 
ἐπεθύμει ἐπεσκόπει, καὶ τοῦτο δρῶν, ἐξ ἑωθινοῦ 
καθήμενος, ἀπειπὼν εἰς περίπατον ἤει, ὡς μὲν ἐγὼ 
οἶμαι, νὴ TOD κύνα, ἐξεπιστάμενος τὸν λόγον, εἰ 
μὴ πάνυ τις} ἦν μακρός. ἐπορεύετο δ᾽ ἐκτὸς 
τείχους, ἵνα μελετῴώη. ἀπαντήσας δὲ τῷ νοσοῦντι 
περὶ λόγων ἀκοήν, ἰδὼν μὲν ἥσθη, ὅτι ἕξοι τὸν 
συγκορυβαντιῶντα, καὶ προάγειν ἐκέλευε: δεο- 
μένου δὲ λέγειν τοῦ τῶν λόγων ἐραστοῦ, ἐθρύπτετο 
ὡς δὴ οὐκ ἐπιθυμῶν λέγειν" τελευτῶν δὲ ἔμελλε, 
καὶ εἰ μή τις ἑκὼν ἀκούοι, βίᾳ ἐρεῖν. σὺ οὖν, ὦ 
Φαῖδρε, αὐτοῦ δεήθητι, ὅπερ τάχα πάντως ποιήσει, 
νῦν ἤδη ποιεῖν. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Ἐμοὶ ὡς ἀληθῶς πολὺ κράτιστόν 
ἐστιν οὕτως ὅπως δύναμαι λέγειν. ὥς μοι δοκεῖς 
σὺ οὐδαμῶς pe ἀφήσειν, πρὶν ἂν εἴπω ἁμῶς 
γέ πως. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Πάνυ γάρ σοι ἀληθῆ δοκῶ. 

3. ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ. Οὑτωσὶ τοίνυν ποιήσω. τῷ ὄντι 
γάρ, ὦ Σώκρατες, παντὸς μᾶλλον τά γε ῥήματα 
οὐκ ἐξέμαθον. τὴν μέντοι. διάνοιαν σχεδὸν ἁπάν- 
των, οἷς ἔφη διαφέρειν τὰ τοῦ ἐρῶντος ἢ τὰ τοῦ 
μή, ἐν κεφαλαίοις ἐφεξῆς δίειμι, ἀρξάμενος ἀπὸ 
τοῦ πρώτου. 


416 leis B.T. τι Schanz. 


PHAEDRUS 


Far from it; and yet I would rather have that ability 
than a good sum of money. 

socraTes. O Phaedrus! If I don’t know Phaedrus, 
I have forgotten myself. But since neither of these 
things is true, I know very well that when listening 
to Lysias he did not hear once only, but often urged 
him to repeat; and he gladly obeyed. Yet even 
that was not enough for Phaedrus, but at last he bor- 
rowed the book and read what he especially wished, 
and doing this he sat from early morning. Then, 
when he grew tired, he went for a walk, with the 
speech, as I believe, by the Dog, learned by heart, 
unless it was very long. And he was going outside 
the wall to practise it. And meeting the man who 
is sick with the love of discourse, he was glad when 
he saw him, because he would have someone to share 
his revel, and told him to lead on. But when the 
lover of discourse asked him to speak, he feigned 
coyness, as if he did not yearn to speak; at last, 
however, even if no one would listen willingly, he 
was bound to speak whether or no. So, Phaedrus, 
ask him todo now what he will presently do anyway. 

PHAEDRUS. Truly it is best for me to speak as I 
may; since it is clear that you will not let me go 
until I speak somehow or other. 

socRATEs. You have a very correct idea about me. 

puaEDRuSs. Then this is what I will do. Really, 
Socrates, I have not at all learned the words by heart; 
but I will repeat the general sense of the whole, the 
points in which he said the lover was superior to 
the non-lover, giving them in summary, one after 
the other, beginning with the first. 


417 


to 


PLATO 


ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Δείξας ye πρῶτον, ὦ φιλότης, τί 
ἄρα ἐν τῇ ἀριστερᾷ ἔχεις ὑπὸ τῷ ἱματίῳ. τοπάξω 
γάρ σε ἔχειν τὸν λόγον αὐτόν. εἰ δὲ τοῦτό ἐστιν, 
οὑτωσὶ διανοοῦ περὶ ἐμοῦ, ὡς ἐγώ σε πάνυ μὲν 
φιλῶ, παρόντος δὲ Λυσίου ἐμαυτόν σοι ἐμμε- 
λετᾶν παρέχειν οὐ πάνυ δέδοκται. ἀλλ᾽ ἴθι, 
δείκνυε. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Ilave. ἐκκέκρουκάς με ἐλπίδος, ὦ 
Σώκρατες, ἣν εἶχον ἐν σοὶ ὡς ἐγγυμνασόμενος. 
> ἊΝ “ \ τὰ , b] a 
ἀλλὰ ποῦ δὴ βούλει καθιζόμενοι ἀναγνῶμεν; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Δεῦρ᾽ ἐκτραπόμενοι κατὰ τὸν ᾽Ἶλισ- 

\ Ν 4 ee aA , > e , 
σὸν ἴωμεν, εἶτα ὅπου ἂν δόξῃ ἐν ἡσυχίᾳ καθιζη- 
σόμεθα. 

γ᾽ ’ id 5"; ᾽ / Δ 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Εἰς καιρόν, ὡς ἔοικεν, ἀνυπόδητος ὧν 
ἔτυχον" σὺ μὲν γὰρ δὴ ἀεί. ῥᾷστον οὖν ἡμῖν κατὰ 
τὸ ὑδάτιον βρέχουσι τοὺς πόδας ἰέναι, καὶ οὐκ 
ἀηδές, ἄλλως τε καὶ τήνδε τὴν ὥραν τοῦ ἔτους τε 
καὶ τῆς ἡμέρας. 

[ / \ , “ “ 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. IIpoarye δή, καὶ σκόπει ἅμα ὅπου 
καθιξζησόμεθα. 

¢ a = » \ φ 4 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Opas οὖν ἐκείνην τὴν ὑψηλοτάτην 

πλατανον; 
, / 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ Te μὴν; 
ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Εἰκεῖ σκιά τ᾽ ἐστὶ καὶ πνεῦμα μέ- 
\ / ΄ AX , 
Tptov, καὶ πόα καθίζεσθαι ἢ av βουλώμεθα κατα- 
κλιθῆναι. 
/ Μ 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Προάγοις ἄν. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Εἰπέ μοι, ὦ Σώκρατες, οὐκ ἐνθένδε 
μέντοι ποθὲν ἀπὸ τοῦ ᾿Ιλισσοῦ λέγεται ὁ Βορέας 
τὴν ᾿᾽Ωρείθυιαν ἁρπάσαι; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Λέγεται γάρ. 

7 , 2 > / , a \ 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Ap οὖν ἐνθένδε; χαρίεντα γοῦν καὶ 
418 


PHAEDRUS 


SOCRATES. Yes, my dear, when you have first 
shown me what you have in your left hand, under 
your cloak. For I suspect you have the actual 
discourse. And if that is the case, believe this of 
me, that I am very fond of you, but when Lysias is 
here I have not the slightest intention of lending you 
my ears to practise on. Come now, show it. 

PHAEDRUs. Stop. You have robbed me of the 
hope I had of practising on you. But where shall 
we sit and read? 

socRaTEs. Let us turn aside here and go along 
the Ilissus; then we can sit down quietly wherever 
we please. 

PHAEDRvs. I am fortunate, it seems, in being bare- 
foot; you are so always. It is easiest then for us 
to go along the brook with our feet in the water, and 
it is not unpleasant, especially at this time of the 
year and the day. 

socRATEs. Lead on then, and look out for a good 
place where we may sit. 

PHAEDRUs. Do you see that very tall plane tree? 

socraTes. What of it? 

PHAEDRUS. There is shade there and a moderate 
breeze and grass to sit on, or, if we like, to lie 
down on. 

socRATES. Lead the way. 

PHAEDRUS. ‘Tell me, Socrates, is it not from some 
place along here by the Ilissus that Boreas is said to 
have carried off Oreithyia ? 

socraTes. Yes, that is the story. 

PHAEDRUs. Well, is it from here? The streamlet 


419 


PLATO 


καθαρὰ καὶ διαφανῆ τὰ ὑδάτια φαίνεται, καὶ 
ἐπιτήδεια κόραις παίζειν παρ᾽ αὐτά. 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὔκ, ἀλλὰ κάτωθεν ὅσον δύ᾽ ἢ τρία 
/ ? \ \ A Ν / / 
στάδια, 4 πρὸς τὸ τῆς “Aypas διαβαίνομεν" Kat 
ἐ » Ν 3 , “ 
πού τίς ἐστι βωμὸς αὐτοθι Βορέου. 
3 
SAIAPOX. Οὐ πάνυ νενόηκα' ἀλλ᾽ εἰπὲ πρὸς 
Διός, ὦ Σώκρατες: σὺ τοῦτο τὸ μυθολόγημα 
πείθει ἀληθὲς εἶναι; 
4. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ᾿Αλλ᾽ εἰ ἀπιστοίην, ὥσπερ οἱ 
, 3 Xx Μ Μ ἜΣ , 
σοφοί, οὐκ ἂν ἄτοπος εἴην: εἶτα σοφιζόμενος 
a lal , 
φαίην ἂν αὐτὴν πνεῦμα Βορέου κατὰ τῶν πλησίον 
πετρῶν σὺν Φαρμακείᾳ παίζουσαν ὦσαι, καὶ 
οὕτω δὴ τελευτήσασαν λεχθῆναι ὑπὸ τοῦ Βορέου 
ἀναρπαστὸν γεγονέναι. ἐγὼ δέ, ὦ Φαῖδρε, ἄλλως 
μὲν τὰ τοιαῦτα χαρίεντα ἡγοῦμαι, λίαν δὲ δεινοῦ 
nr , 
καὶ ἐπιπόνου καὶ οὐ πάνυ εὐτυχοῦς ἀνδρός, κατ’ 
4 Ν » ¢ 2 baa tae A \ a Ν 
ἄλλο μὲν οὐδέν, ὅτι 8 αὐτῷ ἀνάγκη μετὰ τοῦτο τὸ 
a ¢ a \ 
τῶν Ἱπποκενταύρων εἶδος ἐπανορθοῦσθαι, καὶ 
Ke) Ν a , A 2 a δὲ Μ x 
αὖθις τὸ τῆς Χιμαίρας, καὶ ἐπιρρεῖ δὲ ὄχλος 
΄ ’ » \ wv 
τοιούτων Γοργόνων καὶ IInydowv καὶ ἄλλων 
, 
ἀμηχάνων πλήθη τε καὶ ἀτοπίαι τερατολόγων 
fa) a A \ 
τινῶν φύσεων' als εἴ τις ἀπιστῶν προσβιβᾷ κατὰ 
/ Ψ, , 
TO εἰκὸς ἕκαστον, ἅτε ἀγροίκῳ τινὶ σοφίᾳ χρώ- 
“ » fol a / > \ \ 
μενος, πολλῆς αὐτῷ σχολῆς δεήσει. ἐμοὶ δὲ πρὸς 
A 4 , 
αὐτὰ οὐδαμῶς ἐστι σχολή" τὸ δὲ αἴτιον, ὦ φίλε, 
\ 
τούτου τόδε: ov δύναμαί πω κατὰ τὸ Δελφικὸν 
a aA / 
γράμμα γνῶναι éwautov: γελοῖον δή μοι φαίνεταυ, 


420 


PHAEDRUS 


looks very pretty and pure and clear and fit for girls 
to play by. 

socraTEs. No, the place is about two or three 
furlongs farther down, where you cross over to the 
precinct of Agra; and there is an altar of Boreas 
somewhere thereabouts. 

PHAEDRUs. I have never noticed it. But, for 
Heaven’s sake, Socrates, tell me; do you believe this 
tale is true ? 

socraTes. If I disbelieved, as the wise men do, I 
should not be extraordinary; then I might give a 
rational explanation, that a blast of Boreas, the north 
wind, pushed her off the neighbouring rocks as she 
was playing with Pharmacea, and that when she had 
died in this manner she was said to have been carried 
off by Boreas.!_ But I, Phaedrus, think such explana- 
tions are very pretty in general, but are the inventions 
of a very clever and laborious and not altogether envi- 
able man, for no other reason than because after this 
he must explain the forms of the Centaurs, and then 
that of the Chimaera, and there presses in upon him 
a whole crowd of such creatures, Gorgons and Pegas, 
and multitudes of strange, inconceivable, portentous 
natures. If anyone disbelieves in these, and with a 
rustic sort of wisdom, undertakes to explain each in 
accordance with probability, he will need a great 
deal of leisure. But I have no leisure for them at 
all; and the reason, my friend, is this: I am not yet 
able, as the Delphic inscription has it, to know my- 
self; so it seems to me ridiculous, when I do not yet 

1 The MSS. insert here ἢ ἐξ ᾿Αρείον πάγου: λέγεται yap ad 
καὶ οὗτος ὁ λόγος, ὡς ἐκεῖθεν GAA’ οὐκ ἐνθένδε ἡρπάσθη, ‘‘ or from 
the Areopagus, for this story is also told, that she was 


carried off from there and not from here.” Schanz follows 
Bast and many editors in rejecting this as a gloss. 


421 


PLATO 


230 τοῦτο ἔτι ἀγνοοῦντα τὰ ἀλλότρια σκοπεῖν. ὅθεν 
δὴ χαίρειν ἐάσας ταῦτα, πειθόμενος δὲ τῷ νομιξο- 
μένῳ περὶ αὐτῶν, ὃ νυνδὴ ἔλεγον, σκοπῶ οὐ 
ταῦτα ἀλλὰ ἐμαυτόν, εἴτε τί θηρίον τυγχάνω 
Τυφῶνος πολυπλοκώτερον καὶ μᾶλλον ἐπιτεθυμ- 
μένον, εἴτε ἡμερώτερόν τε καὶ ἁπλούστερον ξῷον, 
θείας τινὸς καὶ ἀτύφου μοίρας φύσει “μετέχον. 
ἀτάρ, @ ἑταῖρε, μεταξὺ τῶν λόγων, ap οὐ τόδε ἦν 
τὸ δένδρον, ἐφ᾽ ὅπερ ἦγες ἡμᾶς; 

ΒΒ ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τοῦτο μὲν οὖν αὐτό. 

a ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Νὴ τὴν Ἥραν, καλή γε ἡ κατα- 
γωγή. ἥ τε γὰρ πλάτανος αὕτη μάλ᾽ ἀμφιλαφής 
τε καὶ ὑψηλή, τοῦ τε ἄγνου. τὸ ὕψος καὶ τὸ 
σύσκιον πάγκαλον, καὶ ὡς ἀκμὴν ἔχει τῆς ἄνθης, 
ὡς ἂν εὐωδέστατον παρέχοι τὸν τόπον" ἥ τε αὖ 
πηγὴ χαριεστάτη ὑπὸ τῆς πλατάνου ῥεῖ μάλα 
ψυχροῦ ὕδατος, ὥστε ve τῷ ποδὶ , τεκμήρασθαι" 
Νυμφῶν τέ τινων καὶ ᾿Αχελῴου ἱερὸν ἀπὸ τῶν 

Ο κορῶν τε καὶ ἀγαλμάτων ἔοικεν εἶναι. εἰ δ᾽ αὖ 
βούλει, τὸ εὔπνουν τοῦ τόπου ὡς ἀγαπητὸν καὶ 
σφόδρα ἡδύ: θερινόν τε καὶ λιγυρὸν ὑπηχεῖ τῷ 
τῶν τεττίγων χορῷ. πάντων δὲ κομψότατον τὸ 
τῆς ποᾶς, OTL ἐν ἠρέμα προσάντει ἱκανή πέφυκε 
κατακλινέντι τὴν κεφαλὴν παγκάλως ἔχειν. ὥστε 
ἄριστά σοι ἐξενάγηται, ὦ φίλε Φαῖδρε. 

ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ. Σὺ δέ γε, ὦ θαυμάσιε, ἀτοπώτατός τις 
φαίνει. ἀτεχνῶς γάρ, ὃ λέγεις, ξεναγουμένῳ τινὶ 

D Kal οὐκ ἐπιχωρίῳ ἔ ἔοικας: οὕτως ἐκ τοῦ ἄστεος 
οὔτ᾽ εἰς τὴν ὑπερορίαν ἀποδημεῖς, οὔτ᾽ ἔξω τείχους 
ἔμοιγε δοκεῖς τὸ παράπαν ἐξιέναι. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ᾿Συγγίγνωσκέ μοι, ὦ ἄριστε. φιλο- 
μαθὴς γάρ εἰμι: τὰ μὲν οὖν χωρία καὶ τὰ δένδρα 
422 


PHAEDRUS 


know that, to investigate irrelevant things. And so 
I dismiss these matters and accepting the customary 
belief about them, as I was saying just now, I inves- 
tigate not these things, but myself, to know whether 
I am a monster more complicated and more furious 
than Typhon or a gentler and simpler creature, to 
whom a divine and quiet lot is given by nature. 
But, my friend, while we were talking, is not this 
the tree to which you were leading us? 

PHAEDRUS. Yes, this is it. 

socraTEes. By Hera, it is a charming resting place. 
For this plane tree is very spreading and lofty, and 
the tall and shady willow is very beautiful, and it is 
in full bloom, so as to make the place most fragrant ; 
then, too, the spring is very pretty as it flows under 
the plane tree, and its water is very cool, to judge 
by my foot. And it seems to be a sacred place 
of some nymphs and of Achelous, judging by the 
figurines and statues. Then again, if you please, 
how lovely and perfectly charming the breeziness 
of the place is! and it resounds with the shrill 
summer music of the chorus of cicadas. But the 
most delightful thing of all is the grass, as it grows 
on the gentle slope, thick enough to be just right 
when you lay your head on it. So you have guided 
the stranger most excellently, dear Phaedrus. 

PHAEDRUS. YOu are an amazing and most re- 
markable person. For you really do seem exactly 
like a stranger who is being guided about, and not 
like a native. You don’t go away from the city out 
over the border, and it seems to me you don’t go 
outside the walls at all. 

socRATES. Forgive me, my dear friend. You see, 
I am fond of learning. Now the country places and 


423 


31 


PLATO 


οὐδέν pe ἐθέλει διδάσκειν, οἱ & ἐν τῷ ἄστει 
ἄνθρωποι. σὺ μέντοι δοκεῖς μοι τῆς ἐξόδου τὸ 
φάρμακον εὑρηκέναι. ὥσπερ γὰρ οἱ τὰ πεινῶντα 
θρέμματα θαλλὸν ἤ τινα καρπὸν προσείοντες 
ἄγουσιν, σὺ ἐμοὶ λόγους οὕτω προτείνων ἐν βι- 
βλίοις τήν τε ᾿Αττικὴν φαΐνει περιάξειν ἅπασαν 
καὶ ὅποι ἂν ἄλλοσε βούλῃ. νῦν οὖν ἐν τῷ παρ- 
όντι δεῦρ᾽ be capa) ἐγὼ μέν μοι δοκῶ κατακεί- 
σεσθαι, σὺ δ᾽ ἐν ὁποίῳ σχήματι οἴει ῥᾷστα ἀνα- 
γνώσεσθαι, τοῦθ᾽ ἑλόμενος ἀναγίγνωσκε. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. “Axove δή. 

6. Περὶ μὲν τῶν ἐμῶν πραγμάτων ἐπίστασαι, 
καὶ ὡς νομίζω συμφέρειν ἡμῖν “γενομένων τούτων 
ἀκήκοας" ἀξιῶ δὲ μὴ διὰ τοῦτο ἀτυχῆσαι ὧν 
δέομαι, ὅτι οὐκ ἐραστὴς ὧν σου τυγχάνω. ὡς 
ἐκείνοις μὲν τότε μεταμέλει ὧν ἂν εὖ ποιήσωσιν, 
ἐπειδὰν τῆς ἐπιθυμίας παύσωνται" τοῖς δὲ οὐκ 
ἔστι “Χρόνος, ἐν ᾧ «μεταγνῶναι, προσήκει. οὐ γὰρ 
ὑπ᾽ ἀνάγκης ἀλλ᾽ ἑκόντες, ὡς ἂν ἄριστα περὶ τῶν 
οἰκείων βουλεύσαιντο, πρὸς τὴν δύναμιν τὴν 
αὐτῶν εὖ ποιοῦσιν. ἔτι δὲ οἱ μὲν ἐρῶντες σκο- 
ποῦσιν ἅ τε κακῶς διέθεντο τῶν αὑτῶν διὰ τὸν 
ἔρωτα καὶ ἃ πεποιήκασιν εὖ, καὶ ὃν εἶχον πόνον 
προστιθέντες ἡγοῦνται πάλαι τὴν ἀξίαν ἀποδεδω- 
κέναι χάριν τοῖς ἐρωμένοις" τοῖς δὲ μὴ ἐρῶσιν 
οὔτε τὴν τῶν οἰκείων ἀμέλειαν διὰ τοῦτο ἔστι 
προφασίζεσθαι, οὔτε τοὺς παρεληλυθότας πόνους 
MgC eso οὔτε τὰς πρὸς τοὺς προσήκοντας 

διαφορὰς αἰτιάσασθαι: ὥστε περιῃρημένων τοσού- 
των κακῶν οὐδὲν ὑπολείπεται ἀλλ᾽ ἢ ποιεῖν 
προθύμως, ὅ τι ἂν αὐτοῖς οἴωνται πράξαντες 
χαριεῖσθαι. ἔτε δὲ εἰ διὰ τοῦτο ἄξιον τοὺς 


424 


PHAEDRUS 


the trees won’t teach me anything, and the people in 
the city do. But you seem to have found the charm 
to bring me out. For as people lead hungry animals 
by shaking in front of them a branch of leaves or 
some fruit, just so, I think, you, by holding before 
me discourses in books, will lead me all over Attica 
and wherever else you please. So now that I have 
come here, I intend to lie down, and do you choose 
the position in which you think you can read most 
easily, and read. 

PHAEDRUS. Hear then. 

You know what my condition is, and you have 
heard how I think it is to our advantage to arrange 
these matters. And I claim that I ought not to 
be refused what I ask because I am not your lover. 
For lovers repent of the kindnesses they have done 
when their passion ceases; but there is no time when 
non-lovers naturally repent. For they do kindnesses 
to the best of their ability, not under compulsion, 
but of their free will, according to their view of 
their own best interest. And besides, lovers consider 
the injury they have done to their own concerns on 
account of their love, and the benefits they have 
conferred, and they add the trouble they have had, 
and so they think they have long ago made sufficient 
return to the beloved; but non-lovers cannot aver 
neglect of their own affairs because of their con- 
dition, nor can they take account of the pains they 
have been at in the past, nor lay any blame for 
quarrels with their relatives; and so, since all these 
evils are removed, there is nothing left for them but 
to do eagerly what they think will please the beloved. 
And besides, if lovers ought to be highly esteemed 


425 


LS) 


ι9 


PLATO 


7 A \ ω “ 4 , 
ἐρῶντας περὶ πολλοῦ ποιεῖσθαι, ὅτι τούτους 
μάλιστά φασι φιλεῖν ὧν ἂν ἐρῶσιν καὶ ἕτοιμοί 
}] A ’ ΄-“ν A 
εἰσι Kal ἐκ τῶν λόγων καὶ ἐκ τῶν ἔργων τοῖς 
ΜΝ a 
ἄλλοις ἀπεχθανόμενοι τοῖς ἐρωμένοις χαρί- 
2 lal ᾽ > a / “ 
ζεσθαι, ῥάδιον γνῶναι, εἰ ἀληθῆ λέγουσιν, ὅτι 
a. ’ὔ, - 
ὅσων ἂν ὕστερον ἐρασθῶσιν, ἐκείνους αὐτῶν περὶ 
7 / A an \ 
πλείονος ποιήσονται, καὶ δῆλον ὅτι, ἐὰν ἐκείνοις 
a \ lal / / an 
δοκῇ, Kal τούτους κακῶς ποιήσουσι. Kal TOL πῶς 
εἰκός ἐστι τοιοῦτον πρᾶγμα προέσθαι τοιαύτην 
ἔχοντι συμφοράν, ἣν οὐδ᾽ ἂν ἐπιχειρήσειεν οὐδεὶς 
J [2 
ἔμπειρος ὧν ἀποτρέπειν; καὶ γὰρ αὐτοὶ ὁμολο- 
γοῦσιν νοσεῖν μᾶλλον ἢ σωφρονεῖν, καὶ εἰδέναι ὅτι 
κακῶς φρονοῦσιν, ἀλλ᾽ οὐ δύνασθαι αὑτῶν κρατεῖν" 
ὥστε πῶς ἂν εὖ φρονήσαντες ταῦτα καλῶς ἔχειν 
[ / 4 ) Φ fed ͵ / 
ἡγήσαιντο περὶ ὧν οὕτω διακείμενοι βεβούλευνται; 
΄-“ ἊΣ [4 
καὶ μὲν δὴ εἰ μὲν ἐκ τῶν ἐρώντων τὸν βέλτιστον 
e A > > , Μ e oy» » ’ 23) [οἱ 
αἱροῖο, ἐξ ὀλίγων ἄν σοι ἡ ἔκλεξις εἴη" εἰ δ᾽ ἐκ τῶν 
Μ \ A 2 ’ b] a“ 
ἄλλων τὸν cavT@ ἐπιτηδειότατον, ἐκ πολλῶν" 
Lcd A , 3 \ b] a a ” 
ὥστε πολυ πλείων ἐλπὶς EV τοῖς πολλοῖς ὄντα 
~ + nm “ / 
τυχεῖν Tov ἄξιον τῆς σῆς φιλίας. 
4 \ , ἈΝ / 
7. Et τοίνυν τὸν νόμον tov καθεστηκότα 
’ 7 lal > / , 
δέδοικας, μὴ πυθομένων τῶν ἀνθρώπων ὄνειδός σοι 
> / \ \ lal 
γένηται, εἰκός ἐστι TOUS μὲν ἐρῶντας, οὕτως ἂν 
3 , Che τῷ \ a ΝΜ n ee ῳ 
οἰομένους καὶ ὑπὸ τῶν ἄλλων ζηλοῦσθαι ὥσπερ 
αὐτοὺς ὑφ᾽ αὑτῶν, ἐπαρθῆναι τῷ ἔχειν καὶ 
φιλοτιμουμένους ἐπιδείκνυσθαι πρὸς ἅπαντας, ὅτι 
a / \ A nr 
οὐκ ἄλλως αὐτοῖς TeTOVNHTaL τοὺς δὲ μὴ ἐρῶν- 
ral ᾿ \ / \ 
τας, κρείττους αὑτῶν ὄντας, τὸ βέλτιστον ἀντὶ 
»“"’. ral “ ε lal 
τῆς δόξης τῆς παρὰ τῶν ἀνθρώπων αἱρεῖσθαι. 
ἔτι δὲ τοὺς μὲν ἐρῶντας πολλοὺς ἀνάγκη πυθέσθαι 
426 


PHAEDRUS 


because they say they have the greatest love for the 
objects of their passion, since both by word and deed 
they are ready to make themselves hated by others 
to please the beloved, it is easy to see that, if what 
they say is true, whenever they fall in love after- 
wards, they will care for the new love more than 
for the old and will certainly injure the old love, 
if that pleases the new. And how can one reason- 
ably entrust matters of such importance to one 
who is afflicted with a disease such that no one 
of any experience would even try to cure it? 
For they themselves confess that they are insane, 
rather than in their right mind, and that they know 
they are foolish, but cannot control themselves; and 
so, how could they, when they have come to their 
senses, think those acts were good which they deter- 
mined upon when in such a condition? And if you 
were to choose the best from among your lovers, 
your choice would be limited to a few; whereas it 
would be made from a great number, if you chose the 
most congenial from non-lovers, so that you would 
have a better chance, in choosing among many, 
of finding the one most worthy of your affection. 
Now if you are afraid of public opinion, and fear 
that if people find out your love affair you will be 
disgraced, consider that lovers, believing that others 
would be as envious of them as they are of others, 
are likely to be excited by possession and in their 
pride to show everybody that they have not toiled in 
vain; but the non-lovers, since they have control of 
their feelings, are likely to choose what is really best, 
rather than to court the opinion of mankind. More- 
over, many are sure to notice and see the lovers 
going about with their beloved ones and making 


427 


PLATO 


καὶ ἰδεῖν, ἀκολουθοῦντας τοῖς ἐρωμένοι,, καὶ ἔργον 
τοῦτο ποιουμένους, ὥστε ὅταν ὀφθῶσι διαλεγόμενοι 
ἀλλήλοις, τότε αὐτοὺς οἴονται ἢ γεγενημένης ἢ 
μελλούσης ἔσεσθαι τῆς ἐπιθυμίας συνεῖναι" τοὺς 
δὲ μὴ ἐρῶντας οὐδ᾽ αἰτιᾶσθαι διὰ τὴν συνουσίαν 
ἐπιχειροῦσιν, εἰδότες ὅτι ἀναγκαῖόν ἐστιν ἢ διὰ 
φιλίαν τῳ διαλέγεσθαι ἢ δι᾿ ἄλλην τινὰ ἡδονήν. 
καὶ μὲν δὴ εἴ σοι δέος παρέστηκεν ἡγουμένῳ 
χαλεπὸν εἶναι φιλίαν συμμένειν, καὶ ἄλλῳ μὲν 
τρόπῳ διαφορᾶς γενομένης κοινὴν dv ἀμφοτέροις 
καταστῆναι τὴν συμφοράν, προεμένον δέ cov ἃ 
περὶ πλείστου ποιεῖ μεγάλην δὴ σοι βλάβην ἂν 
γενέσθαι, εἰκότως δὴ τοὺς ἐρῶντας μᾶλλον ἂν 
φοβοῖο: πολλὰ γὰρ αὐτούς ἐστι τὰ λυποῦντα, καὶ 
πάντ᾽ ἐπὶ τῇ αὑτῶν βλάβη νομίξουσι γίγνεσθαι. 
διόπερ καὶ τὰς πρὸς τοὺς ἄλλους τῶν ἐρωμένων 
συνουσίας ἀποτρέπουσιν, φοβούμενοι τοὺς μὲν 
οὐσίαν κεκτημένους, μὴ χρήμασιν αὐτοὺς ὑπερ- 
βάλωνται, τοὺς δὲ πεπαιδευμένους, μὴ συνέσει 
κρείττους γένωνται' τῶν δ᾽ ἄλλο τι κεκτημένων 
ἀγαθὸν τὴν δύναμιν ἑκάστου φυλάττονται. πεί- 
σαντες μὲν οὖν ἀπέχθεσθαί σε τούτοις εἰς ἐρημίαν 
φίλων καθιστᾶσιν, ἐὰν δὲ τὸ σεαυτοῦ σκοπῶν 
ἄμεινον ἐκείνων φρονῆς, ἥξεις αὐτοῖς εἰς διαφοράν": 
ὅσοι δὲ μὴ ἐρῶντες ἔτυχον, ἀλλὰ δι’ ἀρετὴν 
ἔπραξαν ὧν ἐδέοντο, οὐκ ἂν τοῖς συνοῦσι φθονοῖεν, 
ἀλλὰ τους μὴ ἐθέλοντας μισοῖεν, ἡγούμενοι σ᾽ ὑπ᾽ 
ἐκείνων μὲν ὑπερορᾶσθαι, ὑπὸ τῶν συνόντων δὲ 
1 ἂν inserted by Hirschig and Schanz. 


2 δὴ here and after εἰκότως is inserted by Schanz for ἂν 
of BT. 


428 


PHAEDRUS 


that their chief business, and so, when they are seen 
talking with each other, people think they are met 
in connexion with some love-matter either past or 
future ; but no one ever thinks of finding fault with 
non-lovers because they meet, since everyone knows 
that one must converse with somebody, either because 
of friendship or because it is pleasant for some other 
reason. And then, too, if you are frightened by the 
thought that it is hard for friendship to last, and that 
under other circumstances any quarrel would be an 
equal misfortune to both, but that when you have sur- 
rendered what you prize most highly you would be 
the chief sufferer, it would be reasonable for you to 
be more afraid of the lovers; for they are pained by 
many things and they think everything that happens 
is done for the sake of hurting them. Therefore they 
prevent their loves from associating with other men, 
for they fear the wealthy, lest their money give them 
an advantage, and the educated, lest they prove 
superior in intellect; and they are on their guard 
against the influence of everyone who possesses any 
other good thing. If now they persuade you to 
incur the dislike of all these, they involve you in 
a dearth of friends, and if you consider your own 
interest and are more sensible than they, you will 
have to quarrel with them. But those who are not 
in love, but who have gained the satisfaction of 
their desires because of their merit, would not be 
jealous of those who associated with you, but 
would hate those who did not wish to do so, 
thinking that you are slighted by these last and 
benefited by the former, so that there is much more 


429 


E 


33 


PLATO 


ὠφελεῖσθαι, ὥστε πολὺ πλείων ἐλπὶς φιλίαν 
αὐτοῖς ἐκ τοῦ πράγματος n ἔχθραν γενήσεσθαι. 

8. Καὶ μὲν δὴ τῶν μὲν ἐρώντων πολλοὶ 
πρότερον τοῦ σώματος ἐπεθύμησαν ἢ ἢ τὸν τρόπον 
ἔγνωσαν καὶ τῶν ἄχλων οἰκείων ἔμπειροι ἐγένοντο, 
ὥστε ἄδηλον εἰ ἔτι βουλήσονται φίλοι εἶναι, 
ἐπειδὰν τῆς ἐπιθυμίας παύσωνται: τοῖς δὲ μὴ 
ἐρῶσιν, of καὶ πρότερον ἀλλήλοις φίλοι ὄντες 
ταῦτα ἔπραξαν, οὐκ ἐξ ὧν ἂν εὖ πάθωσι ταῦτα 
εἰκός ἐλάττω τὴν φιλίαν αὐτοῖς ποιῆσαι, ἀλλὰ 
ταῦτα μνημεῖα καταλειφθῆναι τῶν μελλόντων 
ἔσεσθαι. καὶ μὲν δὴ βελτίονί σοι προσήκει 
γενέσθαι ἐμοὶ πειθομένῳ ἢ ἐραστῇ. ἐκεῖνοι μὲν 
γὰρ καὶ παρὰ τὸ βέλτιστον τά τε λεγόμενα καὶ 
τὰ πραττόμενα ἐπαινοῦσι, τὰ μὲν δεδιότες μὴ 
ἀπέχθωνται, τὰ δὲ καὶ αὐτοὶ χεῖρον ¢ διὰ τὴν ἐπιθυ- 
μίαν γιγνώσκοντες. τοιαῦτα γὰρ ὁ ἔρως ἐπιδεί- 
κνυται' δυστυχοῦντας μέν, ἃ μὴ λύπην τοῖς 
ἄλλοις παρέχει, ἀνιαρὰ ποιεῖ νομίζειν" εὐτυ- 
χοῦντας δὲ καὶ τὰ μὴ ἡδονῆς ἄξια παρ᾽ ἐκείνων 
ἐπαίνου ἀναγκάζει τυγχάνειν" ὥστε πολὺ μᾶλλον 
ἐλεεῖν τοὺς ἐρωμένους ἢ ζηλοῦν αὐτοὺς προσήκει. 
ἐὰν δ᾽ ἐμοὶ πείθῃ, πρῶτον μὲν οὐ τὴν παροῦσαν 
ἡδονὴν θεραπεύων συνέσομαί σοι, ἀχλὰ καὶ τὴν 
μέλλουσαν ὠφελίαν ἔσεσθαι, οὐχ ὑπ᾽ ἔρωτος 
ἡττώμενος, ἀλλ᾽ ἐμαυτοῦ κρατῶν, οὐδὲ διὰ σμικρὰ 
ἰσχυρὰν ἔχθραν ἀναιρούμενος, ἀλλὰ διὰ “μεγάλα 
βραδέως ὀλίγην ὀργὴν ποιούμενος, τῶν μὲν ἀκου- 
σίων συγγνώμην ἔχων, τὰ δὲ ἑκούσια πειρώμενος 
ἀποτρέπειν" ταῦτα γάρ ἐστι φιλίας πολὺν χρόνον 
ἐσομένης τεκμήρια. εἰ δ᾽ ἄρα σοι τοῦτο παρέ- 
στηκεν, ὡς οὐχ οἷόν τε ἰσχυρὰν φιλίαν γενέσθαι, 


430 


PHAEDRUS 


likelihood that they will gain friendship than enmity 
from their love-affair with you. 

And then, too, many lovers are moved by physical 
passion before they know the character or have become 
acquainted with the connexions of the beloved, so 
that it is uncertain whether they will wish to be your 
friends after their passion has ceased. But in the 
case of those who are not in love, who were your 
friends before entering into the closer relation, the 
favours received are not likely to make the friendship 
less, but will remain as pledges of future joys, 
And then, too, it will be better for your character to 
yield to me than to a lover. For lovers praise your 
words and acts beyond due measure, partly through 
fear of incurring your displeasure, and partly because 
their own judgment is obscured by their passion. For 
such are the exhibitions of the power of Love: he 
makes the unsuccessful lovers think that things are 
grievous which cause no pain to others, and he com- 
pels the successful to praise what ought not to give 
pleasure ; therefore those whom they love are more 
to be pitied than envied. But if you yield to me, I 
shall consort with you, not with a view to present 
pleasure only, but to future advantage also, not being 
overcome by passion but in full control of myself, and 
not taking up violent enmity because of small matters, 
but slowly gathering little anger when the transgres- 
sions are great, forgiving involuntary wrongs and try- 
ing to preventintentional ones; for these are the proofs 
of a friendship that will endure for a longtime. But 
if you have a notion that friendship cannot be firm 


431 


D 


234 


PLATO 


ἐὰν μή τις ἐρῶν τυγχάνῃ, ἐνθυμεῖσθαι χρή, ὅτι 
οὔτ᾽ ἂν τοὺς υἱεῖς περὶ πολλοῦ ἐποιούμεθα οὔτ᾽ 
ἂν τοὺς πατέρας καὶ τὰς μητέρας, οὔτ᾽ ἂν πιστοὺς 
φίλους ἐκεκτήμεθα, οἱ οὐκ ἐξ ἐπιθυμίας τοιαύτης 
γεγόνασιν ἀλλ᾽ ἐξ ἑτέρων ἐπιτηδευμάτων. 

9. “Ere δὲ εἰ χρὴ τοῖς δεομένοις μάλιστα 
χαρίζεσθαι, προσήκει καὶ τῶν ἄλλων μὴ τοὺς 
βελτίστους ἀλλὰ τοὺς ἀπορωτάτους εὖ ποιεῖν' 
μεγίστων γὰρ ἀπαλλαγέντες κακῶν πλείστην 

άριν αὐτοῖς εἴσονται. καὶ μὲν δὴ καὶ ἐν ταῖς 
ζίαις δαπάναις οὐ τοὺς φίλους ἄξιον παρακαλεῖν, 
ἀλλὰ τοὺς προσαιτοῦντας καὶ τοὺς δεομένους 
πλησμονῆς: ἐκεῖνοι γὰρ καὶ ἀγαπήσουσιν καὶ 
ἀκολουθήσουσιν καὶ ἐπὶ τὰς θύρας ἥξουσιν καὶ 
μάλιστα ἡσθήσονται καὶ οὐκ ἐλαχίστην χάριν 
εἴσονται καὶ πολλὰ ἀγαθὰ αὐτοῖς εὔξονται. ἀλλ᾽ 
ἴσως προσήκει οὐ τοῖς σφόδρα δεομένοις χαρί- 
ἕεσθαι, ἀλλὰ τοῖς μάλιστα ἀποδοῦναι χάριν 
δυναμένοις" οὐδὲ τοῖς προσαιτοῦσι “μόνον, ἀλλὰ 
τοῖς τοῦ πράγματος ἀξίοις" οὐδὲ ὅσοι τῆς σῆς 
ὥρας ἀπολαύσονται, ἀλλ᾽ οἵ τινες πρεσβυτέρῳ 
γενομένῳ τῶν σφετέρων ἀγαθῶν μεταδώσουσιν' 
οὐδὲ οἵ διαπραξάμενοι πρὸς τοὺς ἄλλους φιλο- 
τιμήσονται, ἀλλ᾽ οἵ τινες αἰσχυνόμενοι πρὸς 
ἅπαντας σιωπήσονται" οὐδὲ τοῖς ὀλίγον χρόνον 
σπουδάζουσιν, ἀλλὰ τοῖς ὁμοίως διὰ παντὸς τοῦ 
βίου φίλοις ἐσομένοις" οὐδὲ οἵ τινες παυόμενοι 
τῆς ἐπιθυμίας ἔχθρας πρόφασιν ξητήσουσιν, ἀλλ᾽ 
οἱ παυσαμένοις τῆς “ὥρας τότε τὴν αὑτῶν ἀρετὴν 
ἐπιξείξονται. σὺ οὖν τῶν τε εἰρημένων μέμνησο, 
καὶ ἐκεῖνο ἐνθυμοῦ, ὅ ὅτι τοὺς μὲν ἐρῶντας οἱ φίλοι 
νουθετοῦσιν ὡς ὄντος κακοῦ τοῦ ἐπιτηδεύματος, 


432 


PHAEDRUS 


unless one is in love, you should bear in mind that in 
that case we should not have great affection for sons 
or for fathers and mothers, nor should we possess 
faithful friends who have been gained not through 
passion but through associations of a different kind. 
Besides, if you ought to grant favours to those who 
ask for them most eagerly, you ought in other matters 
also to confer benefits, not on the best, but on the 
most needy; for they will be most grateful, since 
they are relieved of the greatest ills. And then, too, 
at private entertainments you ought not to invite 
your friends, but beggars and those who need a 
meal ; for they will love you and attend you and 
come to your doors and be most pleased and grateful, 
and will call down many blessings upon your head. 
Perhaps, however, you ought not to grant favours to 
those who beg for them, but to those who are most 
able to repay you; and not to those who ask 
merely, but to the most deserving; and not to 
those who will enjoy your youthful beauty, but 
to those who will share their good things with 
you when you are older; and not to those who, when 
they have succeeded, will boast to others of their 
success, but to those who will modestly keep it a 
secret from all; and not to those who will be 
enamoured for a little while, but to those who will 
be your friends for life; and not to those who will 
seek a pretext for a quarrel when their passion has 
died out, but to those who will show their own merit 
when your youth is passed. Do you, then, remember 
what I have said, and bear this also in mind, that 
lovers are admonished by their friends, who think 


433 


PLATO 


τοῖς δὲ μὴ ἐρῶσιν οὐδεὶς πώποτε τῶν οἰκείων 
ἐμέμψατο ὡς διὰ τοῦτο κακῶς βουλενομένοις περὶ 
ἑαυτῶν. 

Ἴσως μὲν οὖν ἂν ἔροιό με, εἰ ἅπασίν σοι παραινῶ 
τοῖς μὴ ἐρῶσι χαρίζεσθαι. ἐγὼ δὲ οἶμαι οὐδ᾽ ἂν 
τὸν ἐρῶντα πρὸς ἅπαντάς σε κελεύειν τοὺς ἐρῶντας 
ταύτην ἔχειν τὴν διάνοιαν. οὔτε γὰρ τῷ λόγῳ 
λαμβάνοντι “χάριτος ἴσης ἄξιον, οὔτε σοὶ βουλο- 
μένῳ τοὺς ἄλλους λανθάνειν ὁμοίως δυνατόν" δεῖ 
δὲ βλάβην μὲν ἀπ᾽ αὐτοῦ μηδεμίαν, “ὠφελίαν δὲ 
ἀμφοῖν γίγνεσθαι. ἐγὼ μὲν οὖν ἱκανά μοι νομίζω 
τὰ εἰρημένα. εἰ δέ τι σὺ ποθεῖς, ἡγούμενος 
παραλελεῖφθαι, ἐρώτα. 

107. 1. σοι φαίνεται, ὦ ᾿ Σώκρατες, ὁ ὁ λόγος; οὐχ 
ὑπερφυῶς τά τε ἄλλα καὶ τοῖς ὀνόμασιν εἰρῆσθαι; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Aatpovios μὲν οὗν, ὦ ἑταῖρε, ὥστε 
με ἐκπλαγῆναι. καὶ τοῦτο ἐγὼ ἔπαθον διὰ σέ, ὦ 
Φαῖδρε, πρὸς σὲ ἀποβλέπων, ὅτι ἐμοὶ ἐδόκεις 
γάνυσθαι ὑπὸ τοῦ λόγου μεταξὺ ἀναγιγνώσκων. 
ἡγούμενος γὰρ σὲ μᾶλλον ἢ ἐμὲ ἐπαΐειν περὶ τῶν 
τοιούτων σοὶ εἱπόμην, καὶ ἑπόμενος συνεβάκχευσα 
μετὰ σοῦ τῆς θείας κεφαλῆς. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Elev: οὕτω δὴ δοκεῖ παίζειν; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Δοκῶ yap σοι παΐίζειν καὶ οὐχὶ 
ἐσπουδακέναι; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. “Μηδαμῶς, ὦ Σώκρατες, ἀλλ᾽ ὡς 
ἀληθῶς εἰπὲ πρὸς Διὸς φιλίου, οἴει ἄν τινα ἔχειν 
εἰπεῖν ἄλλον τῶν Ἑλλήνων ἕτερα τούτων μείζω 
καὶ πλείω περὶ τοῦ αὐτοῦ πράγματος; 


1 λόγῳ B. Omitted by Schanz, 
Σ δέτι BT. δ᾽ ἔτι τι Schanz, following Heindorf. 
3 δὴ δοκεῖ T. δὴ Β. δεῖ, Schanz. 


434 


PHAEDRUS 


their way of life is bad, but no relative ever blamed 
a non-lover for bad management of his own interests 
on account of that condition. 

Perhaps you may ask me if I advise you to grant 
favours to all non-lovers. But I think the lover 
would not urge you to be so disposed toward all lovers 
either; for the favour, if scattered broadcast, is not 
so highly prized by the rational recipient, nor can 
you, if you wish, keep your relations with one hidden 
from the rest. But from love no harm ought to come, 
but benefit to both parties. Now I think I have 
said enough. But if you feel any lack, or think any- 
thing has been omitted, ask questions. 

What do you think of the discourse, Socrates? [5 
it not wonderful, especially in diction ? 

socrATes. More than that, it is miraculous, my 
friend; I am quite overcome by it. And this is 
due to you, Phaedrus, because as I looked at you, 
I saw that you were delighted by the speech as 
you read. So, thinking that you know more than 
I about such matters, I followed in your train and 
joined you in the divine frenzy. 

pHAEDRUS. Indeed! So you see fit to make fun 
of it? 

socRATEs. Do I seem to you to be joking and not 
to be in earnest ἢ 

pHAEDRUS. Do not jest, Socrates, but, in-the name 
of Zeus, the god of friendship, tell me truly, do you 
think any other of the Greeks could speak better or 
more copiously than this on the same subject ? 


435 


Lo 


PLATO 


ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί δέ; καὶ ταύτῃ δεῖ ὑπ᾽ ἐμοῦ τε 
καὶ σοῦ τὸν λόγον ἐπαινεθῆναι, ὡς τὰ δέοντα 
εἰρηκότος τοῦ ποιητοῦ, ἀλλ᾽ οὐκ ἐκείνῃ μόνον, ὅτι 
σαφῆ καὶ στρογγύλα, καὶ ἀκριβῶς ἕκαστα τῶν 
ὀνομάτων ἀποτετόρνευται; εἰ γὰρ δεῖ, συγχωρη- 
τέον χάριν σήν, ἐπεὶ ἐμέ γε ἔλαθεν ὑπὸ τῆς ἐμῆς 
οὐδενίας. τῷ γὰρ ῥητορικῷ αὐτοῦ μόνῳ τὸν νοῦν 
προσεῖχον, τοῦτο δὲ οὐδὲ αὐτὸν ὦμην Λυσίαν 
οἴεσθαι ἱκανὸν εἶναι. καὶ οὖν μοι ἔδοξεν, ὦ 
Φαῖδρε, εἰ μή τι σὺ ἄλλο λέγεις, δὶς καὶ τρὶς τὰ 
αὐτὰ εἰρηκέναι, ὡς οὐ πάνυ εὐπορῶν τοῦ πολλὰ 
λέγειν περὶ τοῦ αὐτοῦ, ἢ ἴσως οὐδὲν αὐτῷ μέλον 
τοῦ τοιούτου: καὶ ἐφαίνετο δή μοι νεανιεύεσθαι 
ἐπιδεικνύμενος, ὡς οἷος τε ὧν ταὐτὰ ἑτέρως τε καὶ 
ἑτέρως λέγων ἀμφοτέρως εἰπεῖν ἄριστα. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Οὐδὲν λέγεις, ὦ ὦ Σώκρατες" αὐτὸ γὰρ 
τοῦτο καὶ μάλιστα ὁ “λόγος ἔχει. τῶν γὰρ ἐνόντων 
ἀξίως τ ῥηθῆναι ἐ ev τῷ πράγματι οὐδὲν παραλέλοι- 
πεν, ὥστε παρὰ τὰ ἐκείνῳ εἰρημένα μηδέν᾽ ἄν ποτε 
δύνασθαι εἰπεῖν ἄλλα πλείω καὶ πλείονος ἄξια. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τοῦτο ἐ ἐγώ σοι οὐκέτι οἷός τε ἔσομαι 
“θέσθαι. παλαιοὶ γὰρ καὶ σοφοὶ ἄνδρες τε καὶ 
γυναῖκες περὶ αὐτῶν εἰρηκότες καὶ γεγραφότες 
ἐξελέγξουσί με, ἐάν σοι χαριζόμενος συγχωρῶ. 

SAIAPOS. Τίνες οὗτοι; καὶ ποῦ σὺ βελτίω 
τούτων ἀκήκοας; 

11. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Νῦν μὲν οὕτως οὐκ ἔχω εἰπεῖν’ 
δῆλον δὲ ὅτε τινῶν ἀκήκοα, ἤ που Σαπφοῦς τῆς 
καλῆς ἢ ᾿Ανακρέοντος τοῦ σοφοῦ ἡ καὶ συγγρα- 
φέων τινῶν. πόθεν δὴ “τεκμαιρόμενος λέγω; 
πλῆρές πως, ὦ δαιμόνιε, τὸ στῆθος ἔχων αἰσθά- 

1 ἀξίως BT. ἀξίων Madvig, followed by Schanz. 


436 


PHAEDRUS 


socrRATES. What? Are you and I to praise the 
discourse because the author has said what he ought, 
and not merely because all the expressions are clear 
and well rounded and finely turned? For if that is 
expected, I must grant it for your sake, since, because 
of my stupidity, I did not notice it. I was attending 
only to the rhetorical manner, and I thought even 
Lysias himself would not think that satisfactory. It 
seemed to me, Phaedrus, unless you disagree, that he 
said the same thing two or three times, as if he did 
not find it easy to say many things about one subject, 
or perhaps he did not care about such a detail; and 
he appeared to me in youthful fashion to be exhibit- 
ing his ability to say the same thing in two different 
ways and in both ways excellently. 

PHAEDRUS. Nonsense, Socrates! Why that is the 
especial merit of the discourse. He has omitted none 
of the points that belong to the subject, so that 
nobody could ever speak about it more exhaustively 
or worthily than he has done. 

socraTes. There I must cease to agree with you ; 
for the wise men and women of old, who have spoken 
and written about these matters, will rise up to 
confute me, if, to please you, I assent. 

pHAEDRUs. Who are they? and where have you 
heard anything better than this? 

socRATEs, I cannot say, just at this moment; but 
I certainly must have heard something, either from 
the lovely Sappho or the wise Anacreon, or perhaps 
from some prose writers. What ground have I for 
saying so? Why, my dear friend, I feel that my own 


437 


90 


PLATO 


vopar Tapa ταῦτα ἂν ἔχειν εἰπεῖν ἕτερα μὴ χείρω. 
ὅτι μὲν οὖν παρά γε ἐμαυτοῦ οὐδὲν αὐτῶν ἐννενό- 
nKa, εὖ οἶδα, συνειδὼς ἐμαυτῷ ἀμαθίαν: λείπεται 
δή, οἶμαι, ἐξ ἀλλοτρίων ποθὲν ναμάτων διὰ τῆς 
ἀκοῆς πεπληρῶσθαί με δίκην ἀγγείου: ὑπὸ δὲ 
νωθείας αὖ καὶ αὐτὸ τοῦτο ἐπιλέλησμαι, ὅπως τε 
καὶ ὧν τινων ἤκουσα. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Αλλ᾽, ὦ γενναιότατε, κάλλιστα εἴρη- 
κας. σὺ γὰρ ἐμοὶ ὧν τίνων μὲν καὶ ὅπως ἤκουσας, 
μηδ᾽ ἂν κελεύω εἴπῃς, τοῦτο δὲ αὐτὸ ὃ λέγεις 
ποίησον: τῶν ἐν τῷ βιβλίῳ βελτίω τε καὶ μὴ 
ἐλάττω ἕ ἕτερα ὑπόσχες" εἰπεῖν, τούτων ἀπεχόμενος. 
καί σοι ἐγώ, ὥσπερ οἱ ἐννέα ἄρχοντες, ὑπισχνοῦ- 
μαι χρυσῆν εἰκόνα ἰσομέτρητον εἰς Δελφοὺς ἀναθή- 
σειν, οὐ μόνον ἐμαυτοῦ ἀλλὰ καὶ σήν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Φίλτατος εἶ καὶ ὡς ἀληθῶς χρυσοῦς, 
ὧ Paidpe, εἴ με οἴει λέγειν ὡς Λυσίας τοῦ παντὸς 
ἡμάρτηκε, | καὶ οἷόν Té δὴ παρὰ πάντα ταῦτα ἄλλα 
εἰπεῖν: τοῦτο δὲ οἶμαι οὐδ᾽ ἂν τὸν “φαυλότατον 
παθεῖν συγγραφέα. αὐτίκα περὶ οὗ ὁ λόγος, τίνα 
οἴει λέγοντα ὡς χρὴ μὴ ἐρῶντι. μᾶλλον ἢ ἐρῶντι 
χαρίζεσθαι, παρέντα τοῦ μὲν τὸ φρόνιμον ἐγκω- 
μιάξειν, τοῦ δὲ τὸ ἄφρον ψέγειν, ἀναγκαῖα γοῦν 
ὄντα, εἶτ᾽ ἄλλ᾽ ἄττα ἕξειν λέγειν; ἀλλ᾽, οἶμαι, τὰ 
μὲν τοιαῦτα ἐατέα καὶ συγγνωστέα λέγοντι" καὶ 
τῶν μὲν τοιούτων οὐ τὴν εὕρεσιν ἀλλὰ τὴν διάθε- 
σιν ἐπαινετέον, τῶν δὲ μὴ ἀναγκαίων τε καὶ χαλε- 
πῶν εὑρεῖν πρὸς τῇ διαθέσει καὶ τὴν εὕρεσιν. 

12. ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ. Συγχωρῶ ὃ ὃ λέγεις" μετρίως γάρ 
μοι δοκεῖς εἰρηκέναι. ποιήσω οὖν καὶ ἐγὼ οὕτω" 


1 ὑποσχέσει BT, ἐπιχείοει Schanz. The reading in the text 
was first suggested by Wex. 


438 


PHAEDRUS 


bosom is full, and that I could make another speech, 
different from this and quite as good. Now I am 
conscious of my own ignorance, and I know very well 
that I have never invented these things myself, so 
the only alternative is that I have been filled through 
the ears, like a pitcher, from the well springs of 
another; but, again because of my stupidity, I have 
forgotten how and from whom 1 heard it. 

PHAEDRUS. Most noble Socrates, that is splendid ! 
Don’t tell, even if I beg you, how or from whom 
you heard it; only do as you say; promise to make 
another speech better than that in the book and no 
shorter and quite different. Then I promise, like the 
nine archons, to set up at Delphi a statue as large as 
life, not only of myself, but of you also. 

socrRATes. You are a darling and truly golden, 
Phaedrus, if you think I mean that Lysias has failed 
in every respect and that I can compose a discourse 
containing nothing that he has said. That, I fancy, 
could not happen even to the worst writer. For 
example, to take the subject of his speech, who do 
you suppose, in arguing that the non-lover ought to 
be more favoured than the lover, could omit praise 
of the non-lover’s calm sense and blame of the 
Jover’s unreason, which are inevitable arguments, 
and then say something else instead? No, such 
arguments, 1 think, must be allowed and excused ; 
and in these the arrangement, not the invention, is 
to be praised ; but in the case of arguments which are 
not inevitable and are hard to discover, the invention 
deserves praise as well as the arrangement. 

PHAEDRUS. I concede your point, for I think what 
you say isreasonable. So J will make this concession : 


439 


PLATO 


B τὸ μὲν τὸν ἐρῶντα τοῦ μὴ ἐρῶντος μᾶλλον νοσεῖν 
δώσω σοι ὑποτίθεσθαι, τῶν δὲ λοιπῶν ἕτερα 
πλείω καὶ πλείονος ἄξια εἰπὼν τῶν Λυσίου, παρὰ 
τὸ Κυψελιδῶν ἀνάθημα σφυρήλατος ἐν ᾿Ολυμπίᾳ 
στάθητι.. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Εσπούδακας, ὦ Φαῖδρε, OTL σου 
τῶν παιδικῶν ἐπελαβόμην ἐρεσχηλῶν σε, καὶ οἴει 
δή με ὡς ἀχηθῶς ἐπιχειρήσειν εἰπεῖν παρὰ τὴν 
ἐκείνον σοφίαν ἕτερόν τι ποικιλώτερον; 

ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ. Περὶ μὲν τούτου, ὦ φίλε, εἰς τὰς 

C ὁμοίας λαβὰς ᾿δλήλυθας. ῥητέον μὲν yap σοι 
παντὸς μᾶλλον οὕτως ὅπως οἷός τε εἶ, ἵνα μὴ τὸ 
τῶν κωμῳδῶν φορτικὸν πρᾶγμα ἀναγκαξώμεθα 
ποιεῖν ἀνταποδιδόντες ἀλλήλοις, εὐλαβήθητι" καὶ 

μὴ βούλου με ἀναγκάσαι λέγειν ἐκεῖνο τὸ εἰ ἐγώ, 
ὦ Σώκρατες, "Σωκράτην a ἀγνοῶ, καὶ ἐμαυτοῦ ἐπιλέ- 
λησμαι, καὶ ὅτι ἐπεθύμει μὲν λέγειν, ἐθρύπτετο δέ: 
ἀλλὰ διανοήθητι ὅ ὅτι ἐντεῦθεν οὐκ ἄπιμεν, πρὶν ἂν 
σὺ εἴπῃς ἃ ἔφησθα ἐ ἐν τῷ στήθει ἔ ἔχειν. ἐσμὲν δὲ 

D μόνω ἐν ἐρημίᾳ, ἰσχυρότερος. δὲ ἐ ἐγὼ καὶ νεώτερος, 
ἐκ δ᾽ ἁπάντων τούτων ξύνες ὅ σοι λέγω, καὶ μηδα- 
μῶς πρὸς βίας βουληθῇς μᾶλλον ἡ ἑκὼν λέγειν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Αλλ, ὦ μακάριε Φαῖδρε, γελοῖος 
ἔσομαι παρ᾽ ἀγαθὸν ποιητὴν ἰδιώτης αὐτοσχεδιά- 
ζων περὶ τῶν αὐτῶν. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Οἶσθ᾽ ὡς ἔχει; παῦσαι πρός με καλ- 
λωπιζόμενος" σχεδὸν γὰρ ἔχω ὃ εἰπὼν ἀναγκάσω 
σε λέγειν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Μηδαμῶς τοίνυν εἴπῃς. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Οὔκ, ἀλλὰ καὶ δὴ λέγω: ὁ δέ μοι 


1 στάθητι BT, ἕσταθι Schanz following Cobet. 
2 Schanz, following Cobet, omits εὐλαβήθητι. 


440 


PHAEDRUS 


I will allow you to begin with the premise that the 
lover is more distraught than the non-lover; and if 
you speak on the remaining points more copiously 
and better than Lysias, without saying the same 
things, your statue of beaten metal shall stand at 
Olympia beside the offering of the Cypselids. 

socRATES. Have you taken my jest in earnest, 
Phaedrus, because, to tease you, I laid hands on your 
beloved, and do you really suppose I am going to try 
to surpass the rhetoric of Lysias and make a speech 
more ingenious than his? 

PHAEDRUS. Now, my friend, you have given mea 
fair hold; for you certainly must speak as best you 
can, lest we be compelled to resort to the comic 
“ you're another ’’; be careful and do not force me 
to say “ O Socrates, if I don’t know Socrates, I have 
forgotten myself,” and “he yearned to speak, but 
feigned coyness.” Just make up your mind that we 
are not going away from here until you speak out 
what you said you had in your breast. We are alone 
in a solitary spot, and I am stronger and younger 
than you; so, under these circumstances, take my mean- 
ing, and speak voluntarily, rather than under com- 
pulsion. 

socRATEs. But, my dear Phaedrus, I shall make 
myself ridiculous if I, a mere amateur, try without 
preparation to speak on the same subject in competi- 
tion with a master of his art. 

PHAEDRUs. Now listen to me. Stop trying to 
fool me; for I can say something which will force 
you to speak. 

socraTEs. Then pray don’t say it. 

PHAEDRUs. Yes, but I will. And my saying shall 


441 


237 


PLATO 


λόγος ὅρκος ἔσται: ὄμνυμι yap σοι---τίνα μέντοι, 
’ “ a Τά Ἅ 4 ’ὔ 9 

τίνα θεῶν; ἢ βούλει τὴν πλάτανον ταυτηνί; 7 

μήν, ἐάν μοι μὴ εἴπῃς τὸν λόγον ἐναντίον αὐτῆς 

ταύτης, μηδέποτέ σοι ἕτερον λόγον μηδένα μηδενὸς 
> / 2-3 a 

ἐπιδείξειν μηδ᾽ ἐξαγγελαῖν. 

13. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Βαβαί, ὦ μιαρέ, ὡς εὖ ἀνεῦρες 

\ > ΄ > \ 2 “ a A 4 
τὴν ἀνάγκην ἀνδρὶ φιλολόγῳ ποιεῖν ὃ ἂν κελεύῃς. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τί δῆτα ἔχων στρέφει; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐδὲν ἔτι, ἐπειδὴ σύ γε ταῦτα 
ὀμώμοκας. πῶς γὰρ ἂν οἷός τ᾽ εἴην τοιαύτης 
θοίνης ἀπέχεσθαι; 

[Z 4, 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Aéye δή. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οἷσθ᾽ οὖν ὡς ποιήσω; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τοῦ πέρι; 

᾽ 72 5. τ δὲ Ff 38 , 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ‘Eyxaduyrapevos ἐρῶ, Ww ὃ TL TAXt- 

, Ν / \ A / \ \ 
στα διαδράμω τὸν λόγον, καὶ μὴ βλέπων πρὸς σε 
ὑπ᾽ αἰσχύνης διαπορῶμαι. 

ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ. Λέγε μόνον, τὰ δ᾽ ἄλλα ὅπως βούλει 
ποίει. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἄγετε δή, ὦ Μοῦσαι, εἴτε δι᾿ ὠδῆς 

4 / ” \ / \ \ / 
εἶδος λίγειαι, εἴτε διὰ γένος μουσικὸν TO Λιγύων 
ταύτην ἔσχετε τὴν ἐπωνυμίαν, ξύμ μοι λάβεσθε 

a 7 “ > , e / e \ 
τοῦ μύθου, ὅν με ἀναγκάζει ὁ βέλτιστος οὑτοσὶ 
λέγειν, ἵν᾿ ὁ ἑταῖρος αὐτοῦ, καὶ πρότερον δοκῶν 

4 \ 3 a » “ / 
τούτῳ σοφὸς εἶναι, viv ἔτι μᾶλλον δόξῃ. 

> “ Ἁ “ a Ν ΄ / 

Ην οὕτω δὴ παῖς, μᾶλλον δὲ μειρακίσκος, μάλα 

, / Ai Φ 2 \ / , ? 
καλός" τούτῳ δὲ ἦσαν ἐρασταὶ πάνυ πολλοί. εἷς 
δέ τις αὐτῶν αἱμύλος ἦν, ὃς οὐδενὸς ἧττον ἐρῶν 
ἐπεπείκει τὸν παῖδα ὡς οὐκ ἐρῴη: καί ποτε αὐτὸν 


442 


PHAEDRUS 


be an oath. I swear to you by—by what god? By 
this plane tree? I take my solemn oath that unless 
you produce the discourse in the very presence of this 
plane tree, I will never read you another or tell you 
of another. 

socraTes. Oh! Oh! You wretch! How well you 
found out how to make a lover of discourse do your 
will! 

pHAEDRUs. Then why do you try to get out of it? 

socraTes. I won't any more, since you have 
taken this oath; for how could I give up such 
pleasures ? 

PHAEDRUS. Speak then. 

sOCRATES. Do you know what I’m going to do? 

PHAEDRUs. About what? 

socraTes. I’m going to keep my head wrapped up 
while I talk, that I may get through my discourse as 
quickly as possible and that I may not look at you 
and become embarrassed. 

PHAEDRUs. Only speak, and in other matters suit 
yourself. 

socRATES. Come then, O tuneful Muses, whether 
ye receive this name from the quality of your song or 
from the musical race of the Ligyans, grant me your 
aid in the tale this most excellent man compels me 
to relate, that his friend whom he has hitherto con- 
sidered wise, may seem to him wiser still. 

Now there was once upon a time a boy, or rather 
a stripling, of great beauty : and he had many lovers. 
And among these was one of peculiar craftiness, who 
was as much in love with the boy as anyone, but had 
made him believe that he was not in love ; and once 
in wooing him, he tried to persuade him of this 
very thing, that favours ought to be granted rather 


443 


98 


PLATO 


αἰτῶν ἔπειθε τοῦτ᾽ αὐτό, ὡς μὴ ἐρῶντι πρὸ τοῦ 
ἐρῶντος δέοι χαρίξεσθαι, ἔλεγέν τε ὧδε' 

14. Περὶ παντός, ὦ παῖ, μία ἀρχὴ τοῖς μέλ- 
λουσι καλῶς βουλεύεσθαι" εἰδέναι ἿΣ περὶ οὗ ἂν 

ἦ ἡ βουλή, ἢ ἢ παντὸς ἁμαρτάνειν ἀνάγκη. τοὺς δὲ 
πολλοὺς λέληθεν ὅτε οὐκ ἴσασι τὴν οὐσίαν 
ἑκάστου. ὡς οὖν εἰδότες οὐ διομολογοῦνται ἐν 
ἀρχῆ τῆς σκέψεως, προελθόντες δὲ τὸ εἰκὸς ἀπο- 
διδόασιν' οὔτε γὰρ ἑαυτοῖς οὔτε ἀλλήλοις ὁμολο- 
γοῦσιν. ἐγὼ οὖν καὶ σὺ μὴ πάθωμεν ὃ ὃ ἄλλοις 
ἐπιτιμῶμεν, ἀλλ᾽ ἐπειδὴ σοὶ καὶ ἐμοὶ ὁ λόγος 
πρόκειται, ἐρῶντι ἢ μὴ μᾶλλον εἰς φιλίαν itéov, 
περὶ ἔρωτος, οἷόν τ ἔστι καὶ ἣν ἔχει δύναμιν, 
ὁμολογίᾳ θέμενοι ὅρον, εἰς τοῦτο ἀποβλέποντες 
καὶ ἀναφέροντες τὴν σκέψιν ποιώμεθα, εἴτε ἀφε- 
λίαν εἴτε βλάβην παρέχει. ὅτι μὲν οὖν on ἐπι- 
θυμία τις ὁ ἔρως, ἅπαντι δῆλον: ὅ ὅτι δ᾽ αὖ καὶ μὴ 
ἐρῶντες ἐπιθυμοῦσι τῶν καλῶν, ἴ ἴσμεν. τῷ δὴ τὸν 
ἐρῶντά τε καὶ μὴ κρινοῦμεν; δεῖ δὴ νοῆσαι, ὅτι 
ἡμῶν ἐν ἑκάστῳ δύο τινέ ἐστον ἰδέα ἄρχοντε καὶ 
ἄγοντε, οἷν ἑπόμεθα ἡ ἂν ἄγητον, ἡ μὲν ἔμφυτος 
οὖσα ἐπιθυμία ἡδονῶν, ἄλλη δὲ ἐπίκτητος δόξα, 
ἐφιεμένη τοῦ ἀρίστου. τούτω δὲ ἐν ἡμῖν τοτὲ μὲν 
ὁμονοεῖτον, ἔστι δὲ 6 ὅτε στασιάξετον' καὶ τοτὲ μὲν 
ἡ ἑτέρα, ἄλλοτε δὲ ἡ ἑτέρα κρατεῖ. δόξης μὲν οὗν 
ἐπὶ τὸ ἄριστον λόγῳ ἀγούσης καὶ κρατούσης τῷ 
κράτει σωφροσύνη ὄνομα" ἐπιθυμίας δὲ ἀλόγως 
ἑλκούσης ἐπὶ ἡδονὰς καὶ ἀρξάσης ἐν ἡμῖν τῇ ἀρχῇ 
ὕβρις ἐπωνομάσθη. ὕβρις δὲ δὴ πολυώνυμον' 
πολυμελὲς γὰρ καὶ πολυειδές. καὶ τούτων τῶν 
ἰδεῶν ἐκπρεπὴς ἣ ἂν τύχῃ γενομένη, τὴν αὑτῆς 
ἐπωνυμίαν ὀνομαζόμενον τὸν ἔχοντα παρέχεται, 


444 


PHAEDRUS 


to the non-lover than to the lover; and his words 
were as follows :— 

There is only one way, dear boy, for those to begin 
who are to take counsel wisely about anything. One 
must know what the counsel is about, or it is sure to 
be utterly futile, but most people are ignorant of the 
fact that they do not know the nature of things. 
So, supposing that they do know it, they come to no 
agreement in the beginning of their enquiry, and as 
they go on they reach the natural result,—they agree 
neither with themselves nor with each other. Now 
you and I must not fall into the error which we con- 
demn in others, but, since we are to discuss the ques- 
tion, whether the lover or the non-lover is to be 
preferred let us first agree on a definition of love, 
its nature and its power, and then, keeping this 
definition in view and making constant reference to it, 
let us enquire whether love brings advantage or harm. 
Now everyone sees that love is a desire ; and we know 
too that non-lovers also desire the beautiful. How 
then are we to distinguish the lover from the non- 
lover? We must observe that in each one of us there 
are two ruling and leading principles, which we follow 
whithersoever they lead; one is the innate desire for 
pleasures, the other an acquired opinion which strives 
for the best. These two sometimes agree within us 
and are sometimes in strife ; and sometimes one, and 
sometimes the other has the greater power. Now 
when opinion leads through reason toward the best 
and is more powerful, its power is called self-restraint, 
but when desire irrationally drags us toward pleasures 
and rules within us, its rule is calledexcess. Nowexcess 
has many names, for it has many members and many 
forms ; and whichever of these forms is most marked 


445 


PLATO 


οὔτε τινὰ καλὴν οὔτε ἐπαξίαν κεκτῆσθαι." “περὶ 
μὲν γὰρ ἐδωδὴν κρατοῦσα τοῦ λόγου τοῦ ἀρίστου 
καὶ τῶν ἄλλων ἐπιθυμιῶν ἐπιθυμία γαστριμαργία 
τε καὶ τὸν ἔχοντα ταὐτὸν τοῦτο κεκλημένον παρέ- 
ξεται: περὶ δ᾽ αὖ μέθας τυραννεύσασα, τὸν κεκτη- 
μένον ταύτῃ ἄγουσα, δῆλον οὗ τεύξεται προσ- 
ρήματος" καὶ τἄλλα δὴ τὰ τούτων ἀδελφὰ καὶ 
ἀδελφῶν ἐπιθυμιῶν ὀνόματα τῆς ἀεὶ δυνα- 
στευούσης ἣ προσήκει καλεῖσθαι πρόδηλον. ἧς δ᾽ 
ἕνεκα πάντα τὰ πρόσθεν εἴρηται, σχεδὸν μὲν 
ἤδη φανερόν, λεχθὲν δὲ ἢ μὴ λεχθὲν πᾶν πως 
σαφέστερον" ἡ γὰρ ἄνευ λόγου δόξης ἐπὶ τὸ 
ὀρθὸν ὁρμώσης κρατήσασα ἐπιθυμία πρὸς ἡδονὴν 
ἀχθεῖσα κάλλους, καὶ ὑπὸ αὖ τῶν ἑαυτῆς 
συγγενῶν ἐπιθυμιῶν ἐπὶ σωμάτων κάλλος ἐρρω- 
μένως ῥωσθεῖσα νικήσασα ἀγωγή, ἀπ᾽ αὐτῆς τῆς 
ῥώμης ἐπωνυμίαν λαβοῦσα, ἔρως ἐκλήθη. 

15. ᾿Ατάρ, ὦ φίλε Φαῖδρε, δοκῶ τι σοί, ὥσπερ 
ἐμαυτῷ, θεῖον πάθος πεπονθέναι; 

ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ: Πάνυ μὲν οὖν, ὦ Σώκρατες, παρὰ τὸ 
εἰωθὸς εὔροιά τίς σε εἴληφεν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Σιγῇ τοίνυν μου ἄκουε: τῷ ὄντι γὰρ 
θεῖος ἔοικεν ὁ τόπος εἶναι" ὥστε ἐὰν ἄρα πολλάκις 
νυμφόληπτος, προϊόντος τοῦ λόγου γένωμαι, μὴ 
θαυμάσῃς: τὰ νῦν γὰρ οὐκέτι πόρρω διθυράμβων 
φθέγγομαι. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. ᾿Αληθέστατα λέγεις. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τούτων μέντοι σὺ αἴτιος: ἀλλὰ τὰ 
λοιπὰ ἄκουε: ἴσως γὰρ κἂν ἀποτράποιτο τὸ ἐπιόν. 


1 Schanz reads ἐκτῆσθαι here and the corresponding forms 
elsewhere. 


446 


PHAEDRUS 


gives its own name, neither beautiful nor honourable, 
to him who possesses it. For example, if the desire 
for food prevails over the higher reason and the 
other desires, it is called gluttony, and he who pos- 
sesses it will be called by the corresponding name 
of glutton, and again, if the desire for drink becomes 
the tyrant and leads him who possesses it toward 
drink, we know what he is called; and it is quite 
clear what fitting names of the same sort will be 
given when any desire akin to these acquires the rule. 
The reason for what I have said hitherto is pretty 
clear by this time, but everything is plainer when 
spoken than when unspoken; so I say that the 
desire which overcomes the rational opinion that 
strives toward the right, and which is led away 
toward the enjoyment of beauty and again is strongly 
forced by the desires that are kindred to itself toward 
personal beauty, when it gains the victory, takes 
its name from that very force, and is called love.} 

Well, my dear Phaedrus, does it seem to you, as it 
does to me, that I am inspired? 

pHaEpRus. Certainly, Socrates, you have an un- 
usual fluency. 

socraTEs. Then listen to me in silence ; for truly 
the place seems filled with a divine presence ; so do 
not be surprised if I often seem to be in a frenzy as 
my discourse progresses, for I am already almost utter- 
ing dithyrambics. 

PHAEDRUs. That is very true. 

socraTes. You are responsible for that; but hear 
what follows; for perhaps the attack may be averted. 


1 This somewhat fanciful statement is based on a supposed 
etymological connexion between ἔρως and ῥώμη, ἐρρωμένως, 
ῥωσθεῖσα. 


441] 


99 


PLATO 


ταῦτα μὲν οὖν θεῷ μελήσει, ἡμῖν δὲ πρὸς τὸν 
παῖδα πάλιν τῷ λόγῳ ἰτέον. 
\P > 
Kiev, ὦ φέριστε: ὃ μὲν δὴ τυγχάνει ὃν περὶ οὗ 
/ Ψ ἐξ Rey, , \ 
βουλευτέον, eipntat τε καὶ ὥρισται, βλέποντες δὲ 
57; \ 4. τὸῶἋ \ ἈΝ , > , a 
ἢ πρὸς αὐτὸ τὰ λοιπὰ λέγωμεν, TIS ὠφελία ἢ 
, ων A 
βλάβη ἀπό τε ἐρῶντος Kal μὴ τῷ χαριζομένῳ ἐξ 
εἰκότος συμβήσεται. 
a \ τ \ ? / 3 , ’ , 
Τῷ δὴ ὑπὸ ἐπιθυμίας ἀρχομένῳ δουλεύοντί 
τε ἡδονῇ ἀνάγκη που τὸν ἐρώμενον ὡς ἥδιστον 
ἑαυτῷ παρασκευάζειν: νοσοῦντι δὲ πᾶν ἡδὺ τὸ 
μὴ ἀντιτεῖνον, κρεῖττον δὲ καὶ ἴσον ἐχθρόν. οὔτε 
δὴ κρείττω οὔτε ἰσούμενον ἑκὼν ἐραστὴς παι- 
δικὰ ἀνέξεται, ἥττω δὲ καὶ ὑποδεέστερον ἀεὶ 
> ’ σ΄ Ν 3 Ἁ ἴω ἈΝ 
ἀπεργάζεται: ἥττων δὲ ἀμαθὴς σοφοῦ, δειλὸς 
4 a a 
ἀνδρείου, ἀδύνατος εἰπεῖν ῥητορικοῦ, βραδὺς 
ἀγχίνου. τοσούτων κακῶν καὶ ἔτι πλειόνων κατὰ 
\ / / 
τὴν διάνοιαν ἐραστὴν ἐρωμένῳ ἀνάγκη γιγνομένων 
4 , al 
τε καὶ φύσει ἐνόντων, τῶν μὲν ἥδεσθαι, τὰ δὲ 
παρασκευάζειν, ἢ στέρεσθαι τοῦ παραυτίκα ἡδέος. 
φθονερὸν δὴ ἀνάγκη εἶναι, καὶ πολλῶν μὲν ἄλλων 
συνουσιῶν ἀπείργοντα καὶ ὠφελίμων, ὅθεν ἂν 
μάλιστ᾽ ἀνὴρ γίγνοιτο, μεγάλης αἴτιον εἶναι 
βλάβης, μεγίστης δὲ τῆς ὅθεν ἂν φρονιμώτατος 
εἴη. τοῦτο δὲ ἡ θεία φιλοσοφία τυγχάνει ὄν, ἧς 
ἐραστὴν παιδικὰ ἀνάγκη πόρρωθεν εἴργειν, περί- 
φοβον ὄντα τοῦ καταφρονηθῆναι" τά τε ἄλλα 
μηχανᾶσθαι, ὅ ὅπως ἂν ἦ πάντα ἀγνοῶν. καὶ πάντα 
ἀποβλέπων εἰς τὸν ἐραστήν, οἷος ὧν τῷ μὲν 
ἥδιστος, ἑαυτῷ" δὲ βλαβερώτατος ἂν εἴη. τὰ μὲν 


1 ἑαυτῷ T Stobaeus : τῷ ἑαυτῷ B Schanz, 


448 


PHAEDRUS 


That, however, is in the hands of God; we must 
return to our boy. 

Well then, my dearest, what the subject is, about 
which we are to take counsel, has been said and de- 
fined, and now let us continue, keeping our attention 
fixed upon that definition, and tell what advantage 
or harm will naturally come from the lover or the 
non-lover to him who grants them his favours. 

He who is ruled by desire and is a slave to plea- 
sure will inevitably desire to make his beloved as 
pleasing to himself as possible. Now to one who is 
of unsound mind everything is pleasant which does 
not oppose him, but everything that is better or equal 
is hateful. So the lover will not, if he can help it, 
endure a beloved who is better than himself or his 
equal, but always makes him weaker and inferior ; 
but the ignorant is inferior to the wise, the coward 
to the brave, the poor speaker to the eloquent, the 
slow of wit to the clever. Such mental defects, and 
still greater than these, in the beloved will necessarily 
please the lover, if they are implanted by Nature, 
and if they are not, he must implant them or be de- 
prived of his immediate enjoyment. And he is of 
necessity jealous and will do him great harm by 
keeping him from many advantageous associations, 
which would most tend to make a man of him, espe- 
cially from that which would do most to make him 
wise. This is divine philosophy, and from it the lover 
will certainly keep his beloved away, through fear of 
being despised; and he will contrive to keep him 
ignorant of everything else and make him look to his 
lover for everything, so that he will be most agreeable 
to him and most harmful to himself. In respect to 


449 


240 


PLATO 


οὖν κατὰ διάνοιαν ἐπίτροπός τε καὶ κοινωνὸς 
οὐδαμῇ λυσιτελὴς ἀνὴρ ἔχων ἔρωτα. 

16. Τὴν δὲ τοῦ σώματος ἕξιν τε καὶ θεραπείαν 
οἵαν τε καὶ ὡς θεραπεύσει οὗ ἂν γένηται κύριος, 
ὃς ἡδὺ πρὸ ἀγαθοῦ ἠνάγκασται διώκειν, δεῖ μετὰ 
ταῦτα ἰδεῖν. ὀφθήσεται δὲ μαλθακόν τινα καὶ οὐ 
στερεὸν διώκων, οὐδ᾽ ἐν ἡλίῳ καθαρῷ τεθραμμένον 
ἀλλ᾽ ὑπὸ συμμιγεῖ σκιᾷ, πόνων μὲν ἀνδρείων καὶ 
ἱδρώτων ξηρῶν ἄπειρον, ἔμπειρον δὲ ἁπαλῆς καὶ 
ἀνάνδρου διαίτης, ἀλλοτρίοις χρώμασι καὶ κόσμοις 
χήτει οἰκείων κοσμούμενον, ὅσα τε ἄλλα τούτοις 
ἕπεται πάντα ἐπιτηδεύοντα, ἃ δῆλα καὶ οὐκ ἄξιον 
περαιτέρω προβαίνειν, ἀλλ᾽ ἕν κεφάλαιον ὁρι- 
σαμένους ἐπ᾽ ἄλλο ἰέναι: τὸ γὰρ τοιοῦτον σῶμα 
ἐν πολέμῳ τε καὶ ἄλλαις ᾿ χρείαις ὅσαι μεγάλαι οἱ 
μὲν ἐχθροὶ θαρροῦσιν, οἱ δὲ φίλοι καὶ αὐτοὶ οἱ 
ἐρασταὶ φοβοῦνται. 

Τοῦτο μὲν οὖν ὡς δῆλον ἐατέον, τὸ δ᾽ ἐφεξῆς 
ῥητέον, τίνα ἡμῖν ὠφελίαν ἢ τίνα βλάβην περὶ 
τὴν κτῆσιν ἡ τοῦ ἐρῶντος ὁμιλία τε καὶ ἐπιτρο- 
πεία παρέξεται. σαφὲς δὴ τοῦτό γε παντὶ μέν, 
μάλιστα δὲ τῷ ἐραστῇ, ὅτι τῶν φιλτάτων τε καὶ 
εὐνουστάτων καὶ θειοτάτων κτημάτων ὀρφανὸν 
πρὸ παντὸς εὔξαιτ᾽ ἂν εἶναι τὸν ἐρώμενον: πατρὸς 
γὰρ καὶ μητρὸς καὶ ξυγγενῶν καὶ φίλων στέρε- 
σθαι ἂν αὐτὸν δέξαιτο, διακωλυτὰς καὶ ἐπιετι- 
μητὰς ἡγούμενος τῆς ἡδίστης πρὸς: αὐτὸν ὁμιλίας. 
ἀλλὰ μὴν οὐσίαν Υ ἔχοντα ρυσοῦ ἤ τινος ἄλλης 
κτήσεως οὔτ᾽ εὐάλωτον ὁμοίως οὔτε ἁλόντα ev- 
μεταχείριστον ἡγήσεται: ἐξ ὦ ὧν πᾶσα ἀνάγκη ἐρα- 
στὴν παιδικοῖς φθονεῖν μὲν οὐσίαν κεκτημένοις, 

1 δὲ BT, δὴ Schanz following Hirschig. 


450 


PHAEDRUS 


the intellect, then, a man in love is by no means a 
profitable guardian or associate. 

We must next consider how he who is forced to 
follow pleasure and not good will keep the body of 
him whose master he is, and what care he will give 
toit. He will plainly court a beloved who is effeminate, 
not virile, not brought up in the pure sunshine, but 
in mingled shade, unused to manly toils and the sweat 
of exertion, but accustomed to a delicate and unmanly 
mode of life, adorned with a bright complexion of 
artificial origin, since he has none by nature, and 
in general living a life such asall this indicates, which 
it is certainly not worth while to describe further. 
We can sum it all up briefly and pass on. A person 
with such a body, in war and in all important crises, 
gives courage to his enemies, and fills his friends, and 
even his lovers themselves, with fear. 

This may be passed over as self-evident, but the 
next question, what advantage or harm the inter- 
course and guardianship of the lover will bring to his 
beloved in the matter of his property, must be dis- 
cussed. Now it is clear to everyone, and especially 
to the lover, that he would desire above all things 
to have his beloved bereft of the dearest and kindest 
and holiest possessions ; for he would wish him to be 
deprived of father, mother, relatives and friends, 
thinking that they would hinder and censure his 
most sweet intercourse with him. But he will also 
think that one who has property in money or other 
possessions will be less easy to catch and when caught 
will be less manageable ; wherefore the lover must 
necessarily begrudge his beloved the possession of 


451 


PLATO 


ἀπολλυμένης δὲ χαίρειν. ἔτι τοίνυν ἄγαμον, 
ἄπαιδα, ἄοικον ὅ TL πλεῖστον χρόνον παιδικὰ 
ἐραστὴς εὔξαιτ᾽ ἂν γενέσθαι, τὸ αὑτοῦ γλυκὺ ὡς 
πλεῖστον χρόνον καρποῦσθαι ἐπιθυμῶν. 
17. Ἔστι μὲν δὴ καὶ ἄλλα κακά, ἀλλά τις 
Β δαίμων ἔμιξε τοῖς πλείστοις ἐν τῷ παραυτίκα 
ἡδονήν, οἷον κόλακι, δεινῷ θηρίῳ καὶ βλάβῃ 
μεγάλῃ, ὅμως ἐπέμιξεν uy φύσις ἡδονήν τινα οὐκ 
ἄμουσον, καΐ τις ἑταίραν ὡς βλαβερὸν ψέξειεν ἄν, 
καὶ ἄλλα πολλὰ τῶν τοιουτοτρόπων θρεμμάτων 
τε καὶ ἐπιτηδευμάτων, οἷς τό γε καθ᾽ ἡμέραν ἡδί- 
στοισιν εἶναι ὑπάρχει" παιδικοῖς δὲ ἐ ἐραστὴς πρὸς 
Ο τῷ βλαβερῷ καὶ εἰς τὸ συνημερεύειν πάντων 
ἀηδέστατον. ἥλικα γὰρ καὶ ὁ παλαιὸς “λόγος 
τέρπειν τὸν ἥλικα: ἡ γάρ, οἶμαι, χρόνου ἰσότης 
ἐπ᾽ ἴσας ἡδονὰς ἄγουσα δι᾽ ὁμοιότητα φιλίαν 
παρέχεται: ἀλλ᾽ ὅμως κόρον γε καὶ ἡ τούτων 
συνουσία ἔχει. καὶ μὴν τό γε ἀναγκαῖον αὖ βαρὺ 
παντὶ περὶ πᾶν λέγεται: ὃ δὴ πρὸς τῇ ἀνομοιότητι 
μάλιστα ἐραστὴς πρὸς παιδικὰ ἔ ἔχει. νεωτέρῳ γὰρ 
πρεσβύτερος συνὼν οὔθ᾽ ἡμέρας οὔτε BUKTOS ἑκὼν 
D ἀπολείπεται, ἀλλ᾽ ὑπ᾽ ἀνάγκης τε καὶ οἴστρου 
ἐλαύνεται, ὃς ἐκείνῳ μὲν ἡδονὰς ἀεὶ διδοὺς ἄγει 
ὁρῶντι, ἀκούοντι, ἁπτομένῳ, καὶ πᾶσαν αἴσθησιν 
αἰσθανομένῳ τοῦ ἐρωμένου, ὥστε μεθ᾽ ἡδονῆς 
ἀραρότως αὐτῷ ὑπηρετεῖν" τῷ δὲ δὴ ἐρωμένῳ 
ποῖον παραμύθιον ἢ ἢ τίνας ἡδονὰς διδοὺς ποιήσει 
τὸν ἴσον χρόνον συνόντα μὴ οὐχὶ ἐπ᾽ ἔσχατον 
ἐλθεῖν ἀηδίας; ὁρῶντι μὲν ὄψιν πρεσβυτέραν καὶ 
οὐκ ἐν ὥρᾳ, ἑπομένων δὲ τῶν ἄλλων παύτῃ, ἃ καὶ 
E λογῷ ἐστὶν ἀκούειν οὐκ ἐπιτερπές, μὴ ὅτι δὴ ἔργῳ 
ἀνάγκης ἀεὶ προσκειμένης μεταχειρίζεσθαι: φυλα- 


452 


PHAEDRUS 


property and rejoice at its loss. Moreover the lover 
would wish his beloved to be as long as possible un- 
married, childless, and homeless, since he wishes to 
enjoy as long as possible what is pleasant to himself. 

Now there are also other evils, but God has 
mingled with most of them some temporary pleasure ; 
so, for instance, a flatterer is a horrid creature and 
does great harm, yet Nature has combined with him 
a kind of pleasure that is not without charm, and one 
might find fault with a courtesan as an injurious 
thing, and there are many other such creatures and 
practices which are yet for the time being very plea- 
sant; but a lover is not only harmful to his beloved 
but extremely disagreeable to live with as well. The 
old proverb says, “ birds of a feather flock together ” ; 
that is, I suppose, equality of age leads them to 
similar pleasures and through similarity begets 
friendship ; and yet even they grow tired of each 
other’s society. Now compulsion of every kind is 
said to be oppressive to every one, and the lover not 
only is unlike his beloved, but he exercises the 
strongest compulsion. For he is old while his love 
is young, and he does not leave him day or night, 
if he can help it, but is driven by the sting of 
necessity, which urges him on, always giving him 
pleasure in seeing, hearing, touching, and by δῇ 
his senses perceiving his beloved, so that he is glad 
to serve him constantly. But what consolation or 
what pleasure can he give the beloved? Must not 
this protracted intercourse bring him to the utter- 
most disgust, as he looks at the old, unlovely face, 
and other things to match, which it is not pleasant 
even to hear about, to say nothing of being constantly 
compelled to come into contact with them? And he 


453 


24] 


PLATO 


Kas Te δὴ καχυποτόπους φυλαττομένῳ διὰ παντὸς 
καὶ πρὸς ἅπαντας, ἀκαίρους τε καὶ ἐπαίνους καὶ 
ὑπερβάλλοντας ἀκούοντι, ὡς δ᾽ αὕτως ψόγους 
νήφοντος μὲν οὐκ ἀνεκτούς, εἰς δὲ μέθην ἰόντος 
πρὸς τῷ μὴ ἀνεκτῷ ἐπαισχεῖς ' παρρησίᾳ κατα- 
κορεῖ καὶ ἀναπεπταμένῃ χρωμένου. 

18. Καὶ ἐρῶν μὲν βλαβερός τε καὶ ἀηδής, AnEas 
δὲ τοῦ ἔρωτος εἰς τὸν ἔπειτα χρόνον ἄπιστος, εἰς 
ὃν πολλὰ καὶ μετὰ πολλῶν ὅρκων τε καὶ δεήσεων 
ὑπισχνούμενος μόγις κατεῖχε τὴν ἐν τῷ τότε 
ξυνουσίαν ἐπίπονον φέρειν δι’ ἐλπίδα ἀγαθῶν. 
τότε δὴ δέον ἐκτίνειν, μεταβαλὼν ἄλλον ἄρχοντα 
ἐν αὑτῷ καὶ προστάτην, νοῦν καὶ σωφροσύνην ἀντ᾽ 
ἔρωτος καὶ μανίας, ἄλλος γεγονὼς λέληθεν τὰ 
παιδικά. καὶ ὁ μὲν αὐτὸν χάριν ἀπαιτεῖ τῶν Τότε, 
ὑπομιμνήσκων τὰ πραχθέντα καὶ λεχθέντα, ὡς τῷ 
αὐτῷ διαλεγόμενος" ὁ δὲ ὑπ᾽ αἰσχύνης οὔτε εἰπεῖν 
τολμᾷ ὅτι ἄλλος γέγονεν, οὔθ᾽ ὅπως τὰ τῆς 
προτέρας ἀνοήτου ἀρχῆς ὁρκωμόσιά τε καὶ 
ὑποσχέσεις ἐμπεδώσει ἔ ἔχει, νοῦν ἤδη ἐ ἐσχηκὼς καὶ 
σεσωφρονηκώς, | ἵνα μὴ πράττων ταὐτὰ τῷ πρόσθεν 
ὅμοιός τε ἐκείνῳ καὶ ὁ αὐτὸς πάλιν γένηται. φυγὰς 
δὴ “γίγνεται ἐκ τούτων, καὶ ᾿ἀπεστερηκὼς ὑπ᾽ 
ἀνάγκης ὁ πρὶν ἐραστής, ὀστράκου μεταπεσόντος, 
leva φυγῇ μεταβαλών. ὁ δὲ ἀναγκάζεται. διώκειν 
ἀγανακτῶν καὶ ἐπιθεάζων, ἠγνοηκὼς τὸ ἅπαν ef 
ἀρχῆς, ὅτι οὐκ ἄρα ἔδει ποτὲ ἐρῶντι καὶ ὑπ᾽ 
ἀνάγκης ἀνοήτῳ χαρίζεσθαι, ἀλλὰ πολὺ μᾶλλον 


1 ἐπαισχεῖς Schanz following Heindorf, ἐπ᾽ αἴσχει BT. 


454 


PHAEDRUS 


is suspiciously guarded in all ways against everybody, 
and has to listen to untimely and exaggerated praises 
and to reproaches which are unendurable when the 
man is sober, and when he is in his cups and indulges 
in wearisome and unrestrained freedom of speech be- 
come not only unendurable but disgusting. 

And while he is in love he is harmful and disagree- 
able, but when his love has ceased he is thereafter 
false to him whom he formerly hardly induced to 
endure his wearisome companionship through the hope 
of future benefits by making promises with many 
prayers and oaths. But now that the time of pay- 
ment has come he has a new ruler and governor 
within him, sense and reason in place of love and 
madness, and has become a different person ; but of 
this his beloved knows nothing. He asks of him 
a return for former favours, reminding him of past 
sayings and doings, asif he were speaking to the same 
man; but the lover is ashamed to say that he has 
changed, and yet he cannot keep the oaths and 
promises he made when he was ruled by his former 
folly, now that he has regained his reason and come 
to his senses, lest by doing what he formerly did he 
become again what he was. He runs away from 
these things, and the former lover is compelled to be- 
come a defaulter. The shell has fallen with the other 
side up;/ and he changes his part and runs away ; 
and the other is forced to run after him in anger and 
with imprecations, he who did not know at the start 
that he ought never to have accepted a lover who 
was necessarily without reason, but rather a reason- 


1 This refers to a game played with oyster shells, in which 
the players ran away or pursued as the shell fell with one or 
the other side uppermost. 


455 


242 


PLATO 


μὴ ἐρῶντι καὶ νοῦν ἔχοντι: εἰ δὲ μή, ἀναγκαῖον 
εἴη ἐνδοῦναι αὑτὸν ἀπίστῳ, δυσκόλῳ, φθονερῷ," 
ἀηδεῖ, βχλαβερῷ μὲν πρὸς οὐσίαν, βλαβερῷ δὲ 
πρὸς τὴν τοῦ σώματος ἕξιν, πολὺ δὲ βλαβερωτάτῳ 
πρὸς τὴν τῆς ψυχῆς παίδευσιν, ἧς οὔτε ἀνθρώποις 
οὔτε θεοῖς τῇ ἀληθείᾳ τιμιώτερον οὔτε ἔστιν οὔτε 
ποτὲ ἔσται. ταῦτά τε οὗν χρή, ὧ παῖ, ξυννοεῖν, 
καὶ εἰδέναι τὴν ἐραστοῦ φιλίαν, ὅτι οὐ μετ᾽ 
εὐνοίας γίγνεται, ἀλλὰ σιτίον τρόπον, χάριν 
πλησμονῆς, 


ὡς λύκοι ἄρν ἀγαπῶσ᾽, ὡς παῖδα φιλοῦσιν 
ἐρασταί. 


19. Τοῦτ᾽ ἐκεῖνο, ὦ Φαῖδρε. οὐκέτ᾽ ἂν τὸ πέρα 
ἀκούσαις ἐμοῦ λέγοντος, ἀλλ᾽ ἤδη σοι τέλος ἐχέτω 
ὁ λόγος. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Καίτοι ὦμην γε μεσοῦν αὐτόν, καὶ 
ἐρεῖν τὰ ἴσα περὶ τοῦ μὴ ἐρῶντος, ὡς δεῖ ἐκείνῳ 
χαρίξεσθαι μᾶλλον, λέγων" ὅσ᾽ abd ἔχει ἀγαθά' 
νῦν δὲ δή, ὦ Σώκρατες, τί ἀποπαύει; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκ ἤσθου, ὦ μακάριε, ὅτι ἤδη ἔπη 
φθέγγομαι, ἀλλ᾽ οὐκέτι διθυράμβους, καὶ ταῦτα 
ψέγων; ἐὰν δ᾽ ἐπαινεῖν τὸν ἕτερον ἄρξωμαι, τί με 
οἴει ποιήσειν; ἄρ᾽ οἶσθ᾽ ὅτι ὑπὸ τῶν Νυμφῶν, αἷς 
με σὺ προὔβαλες ἐκ προνοίας, σαφῶς ἐνθουσιάσω; 
λέγω οὖν ἑνὶ λόγῳ, ὅτι ὅσα τὸν ἕτερον λελοιδορή- 
καμεν, τῷ ἑτέρῳ τἀναντία τούτων ἀγαθὰ πρόσεστι. 
καὶ τί δεῖ μακροῦ λόγου; περὶ γὰρ ἀμφοῖν ἱκανῶς 
εἴρηται. καὶ οὕτω δὴ ὁ μῦθος, ὅ τι πάσχειν 

- 
προσήκει αὐτῷ, τοῦτο πείσεται: κἀγὼ τὸν ποταμὸν 


1 δυσκόλῳ φθονερῷ omitted by Schanz, following Spengel. 
2 χέγων BT, λέγονθ᾽ Schanz. 


456 


PHAEDRUS 


able non-lover; for otherwise he would have to 
surrender himself to one who was faithless, irritable, 
jealous, and disagreeable, harmful to his property, 
harmful to his physical condition, and most harm- 
ful by far to the cultivation of his soul, than which 
there neither is nor ever will be anything of higher 
importance in truth either in heaven or on earth. 
These things, dear boy, you must bear in mind, and 
you must know that the fondness of the lover is not 
a matter of goodwill, but of appetite which he wishes 
to satisfy : 


Just as the wolf loves the lamb, so the lover 
adores his beloved. 


There it is, Phaedrus! Do not listen to me any 
longer; let my speech end here. 

PHAEDRUs. But [ thought you were in the middle 
of it, and would say as much about the non-lover as 
you have said about the lover, to set forth all his 
good points and show that he ought to be favoured. 
So now, Socrates, why do you stop? 

socraTes. Did you not notice, my friend, that I 
am already speaking in hexameters, not mere dithy- 
rambics, even though I am finding fault with the 
lover? But if I begin to praise the non-lover, what 
kind of hymn do you suppose I shall raise? I shall 
surely be possessed of the nymphs to whom you pur- 
posely exposed me. So, in a word, I say that the 
non-lover possesses all the advantages that are 
opposed to the disadvantages we found in the lover. 
Why make a long speech? I have said enough 
about both of them. And so my tale shall fare as 


457 


PLATO 


τοῦτον διαβὰς ἀπέρχομαι, πρὶν ὑπὸ σοῦ τι μεῖζον 
ἀναγκασθῆναι. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Μήπω γε, @ Σώκρατες, πρὶν ἂν τὸ 
καῦμα παρέλθῃ: 7 οὐχ ὁρᾷς ὡς σχεδὸν ἤδη 
μεσημβρία ἵ ἵσταται; 1 ἀλλὰ περιμείναντες, καὶ ἅμα 
περὶ τῶν εἰρημένων διαλεχθέντες, τάχα ἐπειδὰν 
ἀποψυχῇ ἴμεν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Θεῖός. y εἶ περὶ τοὺς λόγους, @ 
Φαῖδρε, καὶ ἀτεχνῶς θαυμάσιος. οἶμαι γὰρ ἐγὼ 
τῶν ἐπὶ τοῦ σοῦ βίου γεγονότων μηδένα πλείους ἢ 
σὲ πεποιηκέναι γεγενῆσθαι ἤτοι αὐτὸν λέγοντα ἢ 
ἄλλους ἑνί γέ τῳ τρύπῳ προσαναγκάξζοντα. 
Σιμμίαν Θηβαῖον ἐξαιρῶ λόγου" τῶν δὲ ἄλλων 
πάμπολυ κρατεῖς" καὶ νῦν αὖ δοκεῖς αἴτιός μοι 
γεγενῆσθαι λόγῳ τινὶ ῥηθῆναι. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Οὐ πόλεμόν γε ἀγγέλλεις: ἀλλὰ πῶς 
δὴ καὶ τίνι τούτῳ; 

20. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἡνίκ᾽ ἔμελλον, ὦ ᾿γαθέ, τὸν 
ποταμὸν διαβαίνειν, τὸ δαιμόνιόν τε καὶ τὸ εἰωθὸς 
σημεῖόν μοι γίγνεσθαι ἐγένετο ---ἀεὶ δέ με ἐπίσχει, 
ὃ ἂν μέλλω πράττειν"---καί τινὰ φωνὴν ἔδοξα 
αὐτόθεν ἀκοῦσαι, ἥ με οὐκ ἐᾷ ἀπιέναι πρὶν ἂν 
ἀφοσιώσωμαι, ὥς TL ἡμαρτηκότα εἰς τὸ θεῖον. 
εἰμὶ δὴ οὖν μάντις μέν, οὐ πάνυ δὲ σπουδαῖος, 
ἀλλ᾽ ὥσπερ οἱ τὰ γράμματα φαῦλοι, ὅσον μὲν 
ἐμαυτῷ μόνον ἱκανός" σαφῶς οὖν ἤδη μανθάνω τὸ 
ἁμάρτημα. ὡς δή τοι, ὧ ἑταῖρε, μαντικόν γέ τι 
καὶ ἡ ψυχή" ἐμὲ γὰρ ἔθραξε μέν τι καὶ πάλαι 
λέγοντα τὸν λόγον, καί πως ἐδυσωπούμην κατ᾽ 


| After ἵσταται BT have ἤδη (ἡ δὴ t, Stobaeus) καλονμένη 
σταθερά, ‘which is called noontide,” which Schanz brackets. 
* Schanz follows Heindorf in bracketing ἀεὶ. . . πράττειν, 


458 


PHAEDRUS 


it may ; I shall cross this stream and go away before 
you put some further compulsion upon me. 

pHAEDRUs. Not yet, Socrates, till the heat is past. 
Don’t you see that it is already almost noon? Let 
us stay and talk over what has been said, and then, 
when it is cooler, we will go away. 

socraTes. Phaedrus, you are simply a superhuman 
wonder as regards discourses! I believe no one ofall 
those who have been born in your lifetime has pro- 
duced more discourses than you, either by speaking 
them yourself or compelling others to do so. I 
except Simmias the Theban ; but you are far ahead 
of all the rest. And now I think you have become 
the cause of another, spoken by me. 

PHAEDRUS. That is not exactly a declaration of 
war! But how is this, and what is the discourse ἢ 

socraTes. My good friend, when I was about to 
cross the stream, the spirit and the sign that usually 
comes to me came—it always holds me back from 
something I am about to do—and 1 thought J heard 
a voice from it which forbade my going away before 
clearing my conscience, as if I had committed some sin 
against deity. Now I am a seer, not a very good one, 
but, as the bad writers say, good enough for my own 
purposes ; so now I understand my error. How 
prophetic the soul is, my friend! For all along, 
while I was speaking my discourse, something troubled 


459 


PLATO 


D Ἴβυκον, μή τε παρὰ θεοῖς ἀμβλακὼν τιμὰν πρὸς 


E 


243 


> , ? , rR ~ >” Ν e / 
ἀνθρώπων ἀμείψω" viv δ᾽ ἤσθημαι τὸ ἁμάρτημα. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Λέγεις δὲ δὴ τί; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Δεινόν, ὦ Φαῖδρε, δεινὸν λόγον αὐτός 
τε ἐκόμισας ἐμέ τε ἠνάγκασας εἰπεῖν. 

ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ. Πῶς δή; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Εὐήθη καὶ ὑπό τι ἀσεβῆ: οὗ τίς ἂν 
εἴη δεινότερος; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Οὐδείς, εἴ γε σὺ ἀληθῆ λέγεις. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί οὖν; τὸν Ἔρωτα οὐκ ᾿Αφροδίτης 
καὶ θεόν τινα ἡγεῖ; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Λέγεταί ye δή. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὔ Te ὑπό γε Λυσίου, οὐδὲ ὑπὸ τοῦ 
σοῦ λόγου, ὃς διὰ τοῦ ἐμοῦ στόματος καταφαρ- 
» L em a , > » “ 
μακευθέντος ὑπὸ σοῦ ἐλέχθη. εἰ δ᾽ ἔστιν, ὥσπερ 

4 ΜΨΜ κ A a Cosy, OA A \ 
οὖν ἔστι, θεὸς ἤ τι θεῖον ὁ “Epws, οὐδὲν ἂν κακὸν 
Vv \ \ , \ A \ \ > a > , 

εἴη: τὼ δὲ λόγω τὼ νῦν δὴ περὶ αὐτοῦ εἰπέτην 
ὡς τοιούτου ὄντος. ταύτῃ τε οὖν ἡμαρτανέτην 

Ἁ » Μ ς ΦΟΝ 3 a 4 
περὶ tov “Epwta, ἔτι τε ἡ εὐήθεια αὐτοῖν πάνυ 
> , XN N e \ / \ > \ 
ἀστεία, TO μηδὲν ὑγιὲς λέγοντε μηδὲ ἀληθὲς 
σεμνύνεσθαι ὡς τὶ ὄντε, εἰ ἄρα ἀνθρωπίσκους 
τινὰς ἐξαπατήσαντε εὐδοκιμήσετον ἐν αὐτοῖς. 
ἐμοὶ μὲν οὖν, ὦ φίλε, καθήρασθαι ἀνάγκη" ἔστι δὲ 
τοῖς ἁμαρτάνουσι περὶ μυθολογίαν καθαρμὸς 
ἀρχαῖος, ὃν Ομηρος μὲν οὐκ ἤσθετο, Στησίχορος 
δέ. τῶν γὰρ ὀμμάτων στερηθεὶς διὰ τὴν “Ἑλένης 
/ 3 > U Ψ [ > , 
κακηγορίαν οὐκ ἠγνόησεν ὥσπερ “Opnpos, ἀλλ 


46ο 


PHAEDRUS 


me, and “I was distressed,’ as Ibycus says, “lest | 
be buying honour among men by sinning against the 
gods.”’! But now I have seen my error. 

PHAEDRUS. What do you mean? 

socraTes. Phaedrus, a dreadful speech it was, ἃ 
dreadful speech, the one you brought with you, and 
the one you made me speak. 

PHAEDRUS. How so? 

socraTes. It was foolish, and somewhat impious. 
What could be more dreadful than that ? 

PHAEDRUS. Nothing, if you are right about it. 

socraTes. Well, do you not believe that Love is 
the son of Aphrodite and is a god? 

PHAEDRUS. So it is said. 

socraTEs. Yes, but not by Lysias, nor by your 
speech which was spoken by you through my mouth 
that you bewitched. If Love is, as indeed he is, ἃ 
god or something divine, he can be nothing evil ; but 
the two speeches just now said that he was evil. So 
then they sinned against Love; but their foolishness 
was really very funny besides, for while they 
were saying nothing sound or true, they put on airs 
as though they amounted to something, if they 
could cheat some mere manikins and gain honour 
among them. Now I, my friend, must purify myself ; 
and for those who have sinned in matters of mytho- 
logy there is an ancient purification, unknown to 
Homer, but known to Stesichorus. For when he 
was stricken with blindness for speaking ill of Helen, 
he was not, like Homer, ignorant of the reason, but 

1 Fragment 24, Bergk. 


461 


D 


PLATO 


“ Ἁ aA ΝΜ A a 
ἅτε μουσικὸς ὧν ἔγνω τὴν αἰτίαν, καὶ ποιεῖ 
εὐθὺς 
᾽ Μ ᾽ν ΄ φ 
οὐκ ἐστ ἔτυμος λογος οὗτος, 
950») Μ ΡῚ x > / 909 [24 
οὐδ᾽ ἔβας ἐν νηυσὶν εὐσέλμοις, οὐδ᾽ ἵκεο. 
, 
Πέργαμα Τροίας" 


καὶ ποιήσας δὴ πᾶσαν τὴν καλουμένην παλινῳδίαν 
παραχρῆμα ἀνέβλεψεν. ἐγὼ οὖν σοφώτερος 
ἐκείνων γενήσομαι κατ᾽ αὐτό γε τοῦτο" πρὶν γάρ 
τί παθεῖν διὰ τὴν τοῦ Ἔρωτος κακηγορίαν πειρά- 
σομαι αὐτῷ ἀποδοῦναι τὴν παλινῳδίαν, γυμνῇ τῇ 
κεφαλῇ, καὶ οὐχ ὥσπερ τότε ὑπ᾽ αἰσχύνης 
ἐγκεκαλυμμένος. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τουτωνί, ὦ Σώκρατες, οὐκ ἔστιν ἅττ᾽ 
ἂν ἐμοὶ εἶπες ἡδίω. 

21. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Kal γάρ, ὦ ᾿᾽γαθὲ Φαῖδρε, ἐ ἐννοεῖς 
ὡς ἀναιδῶς εἴρησθον τὼ λόγω, οὗτός τε καὶ ὁ ἐκ 
τοῦ βιβλίου ῥηθείς. εἰ γὰρ ἀκούων τις τύχοι 

ἡμῶν γεννάδας καὶ πρᾶος τὸ ἦθος, ἑτέρου δὲ 
τοιούτου ἐρῶν ἢ καὶ πρότερόν ποτε ἐρασθείς, 
λεγόντων. ὡς διὰ σμικρὰ μεγάλας ἔχθρας οἱ 
ἐρασταὶ a ἀναιροῦνται καὶ ἔχουσι πρὸς τὰ παιδικὰ 
φθονερῶς τε καὶ BraBe pas, πῶς οὐκ ἂν οἴει αὐτὸν 

ἡγεῖσθαι ἀκούειν ἐν ναύταις που τεθραμμένων καὶ 
οὐδένα ἐλεύθερον ἔ ἔρωτα ἑωρακότων, πολλοῦ δ᾽ ἂν 
δεῖν ἡμῖν ὁμολογεῖν ἃ ἃ ψέγομεν τὸν Ἔρωτα; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Ἴσως νὴ Δί᾽, ὦ Σώκρατες. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΉΣ. Τοῦτόν γε τοίνυν ἔγωγε αἰσχυνό- 
μενος, καὶ αὐτὸν τὸν Ἔρωτα δεδιώς, ἐπιθυμῶ 
ποτίμῳ λόγῳ οἷον ἁλμυρὰν ἀκοὴν ἀποκλύσασθαι: 
συμβουλεύω δὲ καὶ Λυσίᾳ ὅ τι τάχιστα γράψαι, 


462 


PHAEDRUS 


since he was educated, he knew it and straightway 
he writes the poem: 


« That saying is not true; thou didst not go within 
the well-oared ships, nor didst thou come to the walls 
af roy, νοι 


and when he had written all the poem, which is 
called the recantation, he saw again at once. Now | 
will be wiser than they in just this point: before 
suffering any punishment for speaking ill of Love, 
{ will try to atone by my recantation, with my head 
bare this time, not, as before, covered through 
shame. 

PHAEDRUs. This indeed, Socrates, is the most 
delightful thing you could say. 

socraTes. Just consider, my good Phaedrus, how 
shameless the two speeches were, both this of mine 
and the one you read out of the book. Forif any man 
of noble and gentle nature, one who was himself in 
love with another of the same sort, or who had ever 
been loved by such a one, had happened to hear us 
saying that lovers take up violent enmity because of 
small matters and are jealously disposed and harmful 
to the beloved, don’t you think he would imagine he 
was listening to people brought up among low sailors, 
who had never seen a generous love? Would he 
not refuse utterly to assent to our censure of Love ? 

pHAEDRUS. I declare, Socrates, perhaps he would. 

socraTEs. I therefore, because I am ashamed at 
the thought of this man and am afraid of Love him- 
self, wish to wash out the brine from my ears with 
the water of a sweet discourse. And I advise Lysias 


1 Fragment 32, Bergk. 
463 


od 


44 


PLATO 


e NG. a a 2 Ni.) 5 cn ? - e , 
ὡς χρὴ ἐραστῇ μαλλον ἢ μὴ ἐρωντι EK τῶν OMOLWV 
χαρίζεσθαι. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. ᾿Αλλ᾽ εὖ ἴσθι ὅτι ἕξει τοῦθ᾽ οὕτω: 
σοῦ γὰρ εἰπόντος τὸν τοῦ ἐραστοῦ ἔπαινον, πᾶσα 
’ / 4 e ᾽ γ ral > A JZ 
ἀνάγκη Λυσίαν ὑπ᾽ ἐμοῦ ἀναγκασθῆναι γράψαι 
αὖ περὶ τοῦ αὐτοῦ λόγον. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τοῦτο μὲν πιστεύω, ἕωσπερ ἂν ἧς 
ὃς εἶ, 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Aéye τοίνυν θαρρῶν. 

ΣΏΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ποῦ δή μοι ὁ παῖς πρὸς ὃν ἔλεγον ; 
vA \ -“ 3 4 4 \ 3 [4 Aa / 
ἵνα καὶ τοῦτο ἀκούσῃ, Kal μὴ ἀνήκοος ὧν φθάσῃ 
χαρισάμενος τῷ μὴ ἐρῶντι. 

ΝΣ » , ’ ἌΝ 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Οὗτος παρά σοι μάλα πλησίον ἀεὶ 
πάρεστιν, ὅταν σὺ βούλῃ. 

22. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὑτωσὶ τοίνυν, ὦ Tat καλέ, 
Η , e ε ἢ , 4 , , 
ἐννόησον, ὧς ὁ μὲν πρότερος ἦν λόγος Φαίδρου 
τοῦ Πυθοκλέους, Μυρρινουσίον ἀνδρός: ὃν δὲ 
μέλλω λέγειν, Στησιχόρου τοῦ Ἑὐφήμου, “Ἵμε- 

/ / δὲ Φ σ΄ > Μ 3 κν s 
palov. λεκτέος δὲ ὧδε, ὅτι οὐκ ἔστ᾽ ἔτυμος λόγος, 
ὃς ἂν παρόντος ἐραστοῦ τῷ μὴ ἐρῶντι μᾶλλον φῇ 
δεῖν χαρίζεσθαι, διότι δὴ ὁ μὲν μαίνεται, ὁ δὲ 
σωφρονεῖ. εἰ μὲν γὰρ ἣν ἁπλοῦν τὸ μανίαν κακὸν 
εἶναι, καλῶς ἂν ἐλέγετο: νῦν δὲ τὰ μέγιστα τῶν 
ἀγαθῶν ἡμῖν γίγνεται διὰ μανίας, θείᾳ μέντοι 
δόσει διδομένης. ἧἥ τε γὰρ δὴ ἐν Δελφοῖς προ- 

A of Pee ὃ 7 e?/ a A A 
φῆτις ai τ ἐν Δωδώνῃ ιέρειαι μανεῖσαι μὲν πολλὰ 
δὴ καὶ καλὰ ἰδίᾳ τε καὶ δημοσίᾳ τὴν “Ελλάδα 
εἰργάσαντο, σωφρονοῦσαι δὲ βραχέα ἢ οὐδέν' καὶ 
ἐὰν δὴ λέγωμεν Σίβυλλάν τε καὶ ἄλλους, ὅσοι 


464 


PHAEDRUS 


also to write as soon as he can, that other things 
being equal, the lover should be favoured rather than 
the non-lover. 

PHAEDRUs. Be assured that he willdoso: for when 
you have spoken the praise of the lover, Lysias must 
of course be compelled by me to write another dis- 
course on the same subject. 

socraTEs. I believe you, so long as you are what 
you are. 

PHAEDRus. Speak then without fear. 

socraTes. Where is the youth to whom I was 
speaking ? He must hear this also, lest if he do not 
hear it, he accept a non-lover before we can stop 
him. 

PHAEDRUS. Here he is, always close at hand when- 
ever you want him. 

socraTEs. Understand then, fair youth, that the 
former discourse was by Phaedrus, the son of Pytho- 
cles (Eager for Fame) of Myrrhinus (Myrrhtown); 
but this which I shall speak is by Stesichorus, son of 
Euphemus (Man of pious Speech) of Himera (Town 
of Desire). And I must say that this saying is not 
true, which teaches that when a lover is at hand 
the non-lover should be more favoured, because the 
lover is insane, and the other sane. For if it were a 
simple fact that insanity is an evil, the saying would 
be true; but in reality the greatest of blessings 
come to us through madness, when it is sent as a gift 
of the gods. For the prophetess at Delphi and the 
priestesses at Dodona when they have been mad have 
conferred many splendid benefits upon Greece both 
in private and in public affairs, but few or none when 
they have been in their right minds; and if we should 
speak of the Sibyl and all the others who by pro- 


465 


PLATO 


nA , / \ ΄-“ 
μαντικῇ χρώμενοι ἐνθέῳ πολλὰ δὴ πολλοῖς προ- 
, 
λέγοντες εἰς τὸ μέλλον ὥρθωσαν, μηκύνοιμεν ἂν 
a \ , , \ bY > 4 
δῆλα παντὶ λέγοντες: τόδε μὴν ἄξιον ἐπιμαρτύ- 
ρασθαι, ὅτε καὶ τῶν παλαιῶν οἱ τὰ ὀνόματα 
τιθέμενοι οὐκ αἰσχρὸν ἡγοῦντο οὐδὲ ὄνειδος μανίαν. 
3 \ a an / f 2 \ / 7 
ov γὰρ ἂν TH καλλίστῃ τέχνῃ, ἢ TO μέλλον κρίνε- 
ται, αὐτὸ τοῦτο τοὔνομα ἐμπλέκοντες μανικὴν 
3 f 3 TIC nn Ὁ Ὧν, [τ / , 
ἐκάλεσαν: ἀλλ᾽ ὡς καλοῦ ὄντος, ὅταν θείᾳ μοίρᾳ 
γίγνηται, οὕτω νομίσαντες ἔθεντο, οἱ δὲ νῦν 
» / ἊΝ A > 4 A 
ἀπειροκάλως τὸ Tad ἐπεμβάλλοντες μαντικὴν 
ἐκάλεσαν. ἐπεὶ καὶ τήν γε τῶν ἐμφρόνων ζήτησιν 
~ 7ὔ ὃ , 93 ’ vA 1 \ rr 
τοῦ μέλλοντος διά τε ὀρνίθων ποιουμένων | καὶ τῶν 
bd / Ae tet | , / 3 
ἄλλων σημείων, ἅτ᾽ ἐκ διανοίας ποριζομένων ἀνθρω- 
πίνῃ οἰήσει νοῦν τε καὶ ἱστορίαν, οἰονοϊστικὴν 
“i n ry eS 
ἐπωνόμασαν, ἣν νῦν οἰωνιστικὴν τῷ ὦ σεμνύνοντες 
«ς , a “ \ = , Ἁ 9 
οἱ νέοι καλοῦσιν: ὅσῳ δὴ οὖν τελεώτερον καὶ ἐν- 
΄ ” fal 
τιμότερον μαντικὴ οἰωνιστικῆς, TO TE ὄνομα TOV 
, f 
ὀνόματος ἔργον τ᾽ ἔργου, τόσῳ κάλλιον μαρτυ- 
fa ΄ Ἂν A 
ροῦσιν of παλαιοὶ μανίαν σωφροσύνης τὴν ἐκ θεοῦ 
» ΄ A \ id 
Ths Tap ἀνθρώπων γιγνομένης. ἀλλὰ μὴν νόσων 
ἴω ’ x a 
γε Kal πόνων τῶν μεγίστων, ἃ δὴ παλαιῶν ἐκ 
" a i? 
μηνιμάτων ποθὲν ἔν τισι τῶν γενῶν, ἡ μανία 
) “ \ Uf τ yw ᾽ 4A 
ἐγγενομένη καὶ προφητεύσασα οἷς ἔδει ἀπαλλαγὴν 
a A > 
εὕρετο, καταφυγοῦσα πρὸς θεῶν εὐχάς τε Kai 
δι fal δ): nw 
λατρείας, ὅθεν δὴ καθαρμῶν τε καὶ τελετῶν 
a , a » , 
τυχοῦσα ἐξάντη ἐποίησε τὸν ἑαυτῆς ἔχοντα πρὸς 
1 Schanz brackets ποιουμένων». 


466 


PHAEDRUS 


phetic inspiration have foretold many things to many 
persons and thereby made them fortunate afterwards, 
anyone can see that we should speak a long time. 
And it is worth while to adduce also the fact that 
those men of old who invented names thought that 
madness was neither shameful nor disgraceful ; other- 
wise they would not have connected the very word 
mania with the noblest of arts, that which foretells 
the future, by calling it the manic art. No, they 
gave this name thinking that mania, when it comes 
by gift of the gods, is a noble thing, but nowadays 
people call prophecy the mantic art, tastelessly 
inserting a T in the word. So also, when they gave 
a name to the investigation of the future which 
rational persons conduct through observation of birds 
and by other signs, since they furnish mind (nous 
and information (historia) to human thought oe 
from the intellect (dianoia) they called it the oiono- 
istic (oionoistike) art, which modern folk now call 
oidnistic, making it more high-sounding by introduc- 
ing the long O. The ancients, then testify that 
in proportion as prophecy (mantike) is superior 
to augury, both in name and in fact, in the same 
proportion madness, which comes from god, is superior 
to sanity, which is of human origin. Moreover, when 
diseases and the greatest troubles have been visited 
upon certain families through some ancient guilt, 
madness has entered in and by oracular power has 
found a way of release for those in need, taking 
refuge in prayers and the service of the gods, and so, 
by purifications and sacred rites, he who has this 
madness is made safe for the present and the after 
time, and for him who is rightly possessed of 


467 


45 


PLATO 


τε τὸν παρόντα καὶ τὸν ἔπειτα “χρόνον, λύσιν τῷ 
ὀρθῶς μανέντι τε καὶ κατασχομένῳ τῶν παρόντων 
κακῶν εὑρομένη. τρίτη δὲ ἀπὸ Μουσῶν κατοκωχή 
τε καὶ μανία, λαβοῦσα ἁπαλὴν καὶ ἄβατον ψυχήν, 
ἐγείρουσα καὶ ἐκβακχεύουσα κατά τε ὠδὰς καὶ 
κατὰ τὴν ἄλλην ποίησιν, μυρία τῶν παλαιῶν ἔ ἔργα 
κοσμοῦσα τοὺς ἐπιγιγνομένους παιδεύει" ὃς δ᾽ ἂν 
ἄνευ μανίας Μουσῶν ἐπὶ ποιητικὰς θύρας ἀφί- 
κηται, πεισθεὶς ὡς ἄρα ἐκ τέχνης ἱκανὸς ποιητὴς 
ἐσόμενος, ἀτελὴς αὐτός τε καὶ ἡ ποίησις ὑπὸ τῆς 
τῶν μαινομένων ἡ τοῦ σωφρονοῦντος ἠφανίσθη. 

28. Τοσαῦτα μέντοι καὶ ἔτι πλείω ἔχω μανίας 
γιγνομένης ἀπὸ θεῶν λέγειν καλὰ ἔργα' ὥστε 
τοῦτό γε αὐτὸ μὴ φοβώμεθα, μηδέ τίς ἡμᾶς λόγος 
θορυβείτω δεδιττόμενος, ὡς πρὸ τοῦ κεκινημένου 
τὸν σώφρονα δεῖ προαιρεῖσθαι φίλον: ἀλλὰ τόδε 
πρὸς ἐκείνῳ δείξας φερέσθω τὰ νικητήρια, ὡς οὐκ 
ἐπ᾽ ὠφελίᾳ ὁ ἔρως τῷ ἐρώντι καὶ τῷ ἐρωμένῳ ἐκ 
θεῶν ἐπιπέμπεται. ἡμῖν δὲ ἀποδεικτέον αὖ τούναν- 
τίον, ὡς ἐπ᾽ εὐτυχίᾳ τῇ μεγίστη παρὰ θεῶν ἡ 
τοιαύτη μανία δίδοται: ἡ δὲ δὴ ἀπόδειξις ἔσται 
δεινοῖς μὲν ἄπιστος, σοφοῖς δὲ πιστή. δεῖ οὖν 
πρῶτον ψυχῆς φύσεως πέρι θείας τε καὶ ἀνθρω- 
πίνης ἰδόντα πάθη τε καὶ ἔργα τἀληθὲς νοῆσαι" 
ἀρχὴ δὲ ἀποδείξεως ἥδε. 

24. Wu xn πᾶσα ἀθάνατος. τὸ γὰ ἀεικίνητον 
ἀθάνατον: τὸ δ᾽ ἄλλο κινοῦν καὶ ὑπ᾽ ἄλλου κινού- 
μενον, παῦλαν ἔχον κινήσεως, παῦλαν ἔχει ζωῆς" 
μόνον δὴ τὸ αὑτὸ κινοῦν, ἅτε οὐκ ἀπολεῖπον ἑαυτό, 
οὔ ποτε λήγει κινούμενον, ἀλλὰ καὶ “τοῖς ἄλλοις 
ὅσα κινεῖται τοῦτο πηγὴ καὶ ἀρχὴ κινήσεως. 


ἀρχὴ δὲ ἀγένητον. ἐξ ἀρχῆς γὰρ ἀνάγκη πᾶν τὸ 
468 


PHAEDRUS 


madness a release from present ills is found. 
And a third kind of possession and madness 
comes from the Muses. This takes hold upon a 
gentle and pure soul, arouses it and inspires it to 
songs and other poetry, and thus by adorning count- 
less deeds of the ancients educates later generations. 
But he who without the divine madness comes to 
the doors of the Muses, confident that he will be a 
good poet by art, meets with no success, and the 
poetry of the sane man vanishes into nothingness 
before that of the inspired madmen. 

All these noble results of inspired madness I can 
mention, and many more. Therefore let us not be 
afraid on that point, and let no one disturb and 
frighten us by saying that the reasonable friend should 
be preferred to him who is in a frenzy. Let him 
show in addition that love is not sent from heaven for 
the advantage of lover and beloved alike, and we will 
grant him the prize of victory. We, on our part, 
must prove that such madness is given by the gods 
for our greatest happiness ; and our proof will not be 
believed by the merely clever, but will be accepted 
by the truly wise. First, then, we must learn the 
truth about the soul divine and human by observing 
how it acts and is acted upon. And the beginning 
of our proof is as follows : 

Every soul is immortal. For that which is ever 
moving is immortal ; but that which moves something 
else or is moved by something else, when it ceases to 
move, ceases to live. Only that which moves itself, 
since it does not leave itself, never ceases to move, 
and this is also the source and beginning of motion 
for all other things which have motion. But the 


469 


40 


PLATO 


f , 
γιγνόμενον γίγνεσθαι, αὐτὴν δὲ μηδ᾽ ἐξ ἑνός" εἰ 
γὰρ ἔκ του ἀρχὴ γίγνοιτο, οὐκ ἂν ἐξ ἀρχῆς 
, ; x \ ’ 7 4 ᾽ \ ᾽ , 
γίγνοιτο. ἐπειδὴ δὲ ἀγένητόν ἐστιν, καὶ ἀδιά- 
θΘ SHEN (9, 7. 3 » a \ ὃ) > 
φθορον αὐτὸ ἀνάγκη εἶναι. ἀρχῆς yap δὴ ἀπολο- 
, ” 3 / ” bd bd ᾽ . , 
μένης οὔτε αὐτή ποτε EX TOU οὔτε ἀλλο ἐξ ἐκεινὴς 
> aA a \ 
γενήσεται, εἴπερ ἐξ ἀρχῆς δεῖ τὰ πάντα γίγνεσθαι. 
᾿ Lat 
οὕτω δὴ κινήσεως μὲν ἀρχὴ TO αὐτὸ AUTO κινοῦν. 
a \ + fee) , » , , 
τοῦτο δὲ οὔτ᾽ ἀπόλλυσθαι οὔτε γίγνεσθαι δυνατόν, 
ἢ πάντα τε οὐρανὸν πᾶσάν τε γένεσιν συμπε- 
σοῦσαν στῆναι καὶ μήποτε αὖθις ἔχειν ὅθεν κινη- 
θέντα γενήσεται. ἀθανάτου δὲ πεφασμένου τοῦ 
ὑφ᾽ ἑαυτοῦ κινουμένου, ψυχῆς οὐσίαν τε καὶ λόγον 
τοῦτον αὐτόν τις λέγων οὐκ αἰσχυνεῖται. πᾶν 
γὰρ σῶμα, ᾧ μὲν ἔξωθεν τὸ κινεῖσθαι, ἄψυχον, ᾧ 
\ 4 > a“ ) e ~ »ἷ . / 
δὲ ἔνδοθεν αὐτῷ ἐξ αὑτοῦ, ἔμψυχον, ws ταύτης 
w , an > ᾿] Μ ἴω .ῃ 
οὔσης οὐ ψυχῆς: εἰ δ᾽ ἔστιν τοῦτο οὕτως 
ἔχον, μὴ ἄλλο τι εἶναι τὸ αὐτὸ ἑαυτὸ κινοῦν ἢ 
ψυχήν, ἐξ ἀνάγκης ἀγένητόν τε καὶ ἀθάνατον 
ψυχὴ ἂν εἴη. 
5 nm « “ 
25. Περὶ μὲν οὖν ἀθανασίας αὐτῆς ἱκανῶς" περὶ 
\ A O/ > a en / a f 3 
δὲ τῆς ἰδέας αὐτῆς ὧδε λεκτέον" οἷον μὲν ἐστι, 
4 a Li 
πάντῃ πάντως θείας εἶναι καὶ μακρᾶς διηγήσεως, 
φ \ ΝΜ > , \ > 4 , 
ᾧ δὲ ἔοικεν, ἀνθρωπίνης τε καὶ ἐλάττονος" ταύτῃ 
οὖν λέγωμεν. ἐοικέτω δὴ ξυμφύτῳ δυνάμει ὑπο- 
γωμεν. ἢ ξυμφύτς με 
/ \ ¢€ / n ἈΝ 
πτέρου ζεύγους τε καὶ ἡνιόχου. θεῶν μὲν οὖν 
4 
ἵπποι τε καὶ ἡνίοχοι πάντες αὐτοί τε ἀγαθοὶ καὶ 
3 » “A \ \ A Ὺ / Ἂν a 
ἐξ ἀγαθῶν, To δὲ τῶν ἄλλων μέμικται" καὶ πρῶτον 
1 Schanz adds τοῦτο before οὐκ. 


470 


PHAEDRUS 


beginning is ungenerated. For everything that is 
generated must be generated from a beginning, but the 
beginning is not generated from anything ; for if the 
beginning were generated from anything, it would 
not be generated from a beginning. And since it is 
ungenerated, it must be also indestructible ; for if the 
beginning were destroyed, it could never be generated 
from anything nor anything else from it, since all 
things must be generated froma beginning. Thus that 
which moves itself must be the beginning of motion. 
And this can be neither destroyed nor generated, 
otherwise all the heavens and all generation must 
fall in ruin and stop and never again have any source 
of motion or origin. But since that which is moved 
by itself has been seen to be immortal, one who says 
that this self-motion is the essence and the very idea 
of the soul, will not be disgraced. For every body 
which derives motion from without is soulless, but 
that which has its motion within itself has a soul, 
since that is the nature of the soul; but if this is 
true,—that that which moves itself is nothing else 
than the soul,—then the soul would necessarily be 
ungenerated and immortal. 

Concerning the immortality of the soul this is 
enough ; but about its form we must speak in the 
following manner. To tell what it really is would be 
a matter for utterly superhuman and long discourse, 
but it is within human power to describe it briefly in 
a figure ; let us therefore speak in that way. We will 
liken the soul to the composite nature of a pair of 
winged horses and a charioteer. Now the horses and 
charioteers of the gods are all good and of good 
descent, but those of other races are mixed ; and first 


471 


PLATO 


μὲν ἡμῶν ὁ ἄρχων ξυνωρίδος ἡνιοχεῖ, εἶτα τῶν 
ἵππων ὁ μὲν αὐτῷ καλός τε καὶ ἀγαθὸς καὶ ἐκ 
τοιούτων, ὁ δὲ ἐξ ἐ ἐναντίων τε καὶ ἐναντίος" χαλεπὴ 
δὴ καὶ δύσκολος ἐξ ἀνάγκης ἡ περὶ ἡμᾶς ἡνιό- 
χησις. πῇ δὴ οὖν θνητὸν καὶ ἀθάνατον ξῷον 
ἐκλήθη, πειρατέον εἰπεῖν. πᾶσα ἡ ψυχή παντὸς 
ἐπιμελεῖται τοῦ ἀψύχου, πάντα δὲ οὐρανὸν περι- 
πολεῖ, ἄλλοτ᾽ ἐν ἄλλοις εἴδεσι γυγνομένη" τέλέα 
μὲν οὖν οὖσα καὶ ἐπτερωμένη μετεωροπορεῖ τε καὶ 
πάντα τὸν κόσμον διοικεῖ" ἧς δὲ πτερορρυήσασα 
φέρεται, ἕως ἂν “στερεοῦ τινὸς ἀντιλάβηται, οὗ 
κατοικισθεῖσα, σῶμα γήϊνον λαβοῦσα, αὐτὸ αὑτὸ 
δοκοῦν κινεῖν διὰ τὴν ἐκείνης δύναμιν, ζῷον τὸ 
ξύμπαν ἐκλήθη, ψυχὴ καὶ σῶμα παγέν, θνητόν 
T ἔσχεν ἐπωνυμίαν' ἀθάνατον δὲ οὐδ᾽ ἐξ ἑνὸς 
λόγου λελογισμένου, ἀλλὰ πλάττομεν οὔτε ἰδόντες 
οὔτε ἱκανῶς νοήσαντες θεόν, ἀθάνατόν τι ζῷον, 
ἔχον μὲν ψυχήν, ἔχον δὲ σώμα, τὸν ἀεὶ δὲ χρόνον 
ταῦτα ξυμπεφυκότα. ἀλλὰ ταῦτα μὲν δή, ὅ ὅπῃ 
τῷ θεῷ φίλον, ταύτῃ ἐχέτω τε καὶ λεγέσθω" τὴν 
δ᾽ αἰτίαν τῆς τῶν πτερῶν ἀποβολῆς, δι᾿ ἣν ψυχῆς 
ἀπορρεῖ, λάβωμεν. ἔστι δέ τις τοιάδε. 

26. πέφυκεν ἡ πτεροῦ δύναμις τὸ ἐμβριθὲς 
ἄγειν ἄνω μετεωρίξουσα, ἡ τὸ τῶν θεῶν γένος 
οἰκεῖ" κεκοινώνηκε δέ πῃ μάλιστα τῶν περὶ τὸ 
σῶμα τοῦ θείου. τὸ δὲ θεῖον καλόν, σοφόν, 
ἀγαθόν, καὶ πᾶν 6 τι τοιοῦτον" τούτοις δὴ τρέ- 
φεταί τε καὶ αὔξεται μάλιστά γε τὸ τῆς Vexis 
πτέρωμα, αἰσχρῷ δὲ καὶ κακῷ καὶ τοῖς ἐναντίοις ἢ 


1 The word ψυχή, given in the MSS. after θείου, is omitted 
by, Plutarch and most modern editors, including Schanz. 
2 Schanz omits καὶ rots ἐναντίοις. 


472 


PHAEDRUS 


the charioteer of the human soul drives a pair, and 
secondly one of the horses is noble and of noble breed, 
but the other quite the opposite in breed and character. 
Therefore in our case the driving is necessarily diffi- 
cult and troublesome. Now we must try to tell why 
a living being is called mortal or immortal. Soul, 
considered collectively, has the care of all that which 
is soulless, and it traverses the whole heaven, 
appearing sometimes in one form and sometimes in 
another ; now when it is perfect and fully winged, it 
mounts upward and governs the whole world; but 
the soul which has lost its wings is borne along 
until it gets hold of something solid, when it settles 
down, taking upon itself an earthly body, which 
seems to be self-moving, because of the power of the 
soul within it; and the whole, compounded of soul 
and body, is called a living being, and is further 
designated as mortal. It is not immortal by any 
reasonable supposition, but we, though we have never 
seen or rightly conceived a god, imagine an immortal 
being which has both a soul and a body which are 
united for all time. Let that, however, and our 
words concerning it, be as is pleasing to God ; we will 
now consider the reason why the soul loses its wings. 
It is something like this. 

The natural function of the wing is to soar up- 
wards and carry that which is heavy up to the place 
where dwells the race of the gods. More than any 
other thing that pertains to the body it partakes of 
the nature of the divine. But the divine is beauty, 
wisdom, goodness, and all such qualities; by these 
then the wings of the soul are nourished and grow, 
but by the opposite qualities, such as vileness and 


473 


247 


PLATO 


φθίνει τε καὶ διόλλυται. ὁ μὲν δὴ μέγας ἡγεμὼν 
ἐν οὐρανῷ Ζεύς, ἐλαύνων πτηνὸν ἅρμα, πρῶτος 
πορεύεται, διακοσμῶν πάντα καὶ ἐπιμελούμενος" 
τῷ δ᾽ ἕπεται στρατιὰ θεῶν τε καὶ δαιμόνων, κατὰ 
ἕνδεκα μέρη κεκοσμημένη: μένει “γὰρ ‘Eotia ἐν 
θεῶν οἴκῳ μόνη: τῶν δὲ ἄχλων ὅσοι ἐν τῷ τῶν 
δώδεκα ἀριθμῷ τεταγμένοι θεοὶ ἄρχοντες ἡγοῦνται 
κατὰ τάξιν ἣν ἕκαστος ἐτάχθη. πολλαὶ μὲν οὖν 
καὶ μακάριαι θέαι τε καὶ διέξοδοι ἐντὸς οὐρανοῦ, 
ἃς θεῶν γένος εὐδαιμόνων ἐπιστρέφεται, πράττων 
ἕκαστος αὐτῶν τὸ αὑτοῦ, ἕπεται δὲ ὁ ἀεὶ ἐθέλων 
τε καὶ δυνάμενος" φθόνος γὰρ ἔξω θείου χοροῦ 
ἵσταται: ὅταν δὲ δὴ πρὸς δαῖτα καὶ ἐπὶ θοίνην 
ἴωσιν, ἄκραν ὑπὸ τὴν ὑπουράνιον. ἁψῖδα πορεύον- 
ται 2 πρὸς ἄναντες" ἡ δὴ3 τὰ μὲν θεῶν ὀχήματα 
ἰσορρόπως εὐήνια ὄντα ῥᾳδίως πορεύεται, τὰ δὲ 
ἄλλα μόγις" βρίθει “γὰρ ὁ τῆς κάκης ἵππος 
μετέχων, ἐπὶ τὴν γῆν ῥέπων τε καὶ βαρύνων, ς ᾧ μὴ 
καλῶς ἦ τεθραμμένος τῶν ἡνιόχων" ἔνθα δὴ πόνος 
τε καὶ ἀγὼν ἔσχατος ψυχῇ πρόκειται. αἱ μὲν 
γὰρ ἀθάνατοι καλούμεναι, ἡνίκ᾽ ἂν πρὸς ἄκρῳ 
γένωνται, ἔξω πορευθεῖσαι “ἔστησαν ἐπὶ τῷ τοῦ 
οὐρανοῦ νώτῳ, στάσας δὲ αὐτὰς περιάγει ἡ περι- 
φορά, αἱ δὲ θεωροῦσι τὰ ἔξω τοῦ οὐρανοῦ. 

21. Τὸν δὲ ὑ ὑπερουράνιον τόπον οὔτε τις ὕμνησέ 
πω τῶν τῇδε ποιητὴς οὔτε ποτὲ ὑμνήσει KAT 
ἀξίαν, ἔχει δὲ ὧδε. τολμητέον γὰρ οὖν τό γε 
ἀληθὲς εἰπεῖν, ἄλλως τε καὶ περὶ ἀληθείας 
λέγοντα. ἡ γὰρ ἀχρώματός τε καὶ ἀσχημάτιστος 

1 Schanz reads εὐδαιμόνως. 


2 Schanz brackets πορεύονται. 
3 ἡ δὴ Proclus, followed by Burnet. ἤδη BT Schanz εἰ al. 


474 


PHAEDRUS 


evil, they are wasted away and destroyed. Now 
the great leader in heaven, Zeus, driving a winged 
chariot, goes first, arranging all things and caring 
for all things. He is followed by an army of gods 
and spirits, arrayed in eleven squadrons; Hestia 
alone remains in the house of the gods. Of the rest, 
those who are included among the twelve great 
gods and are accounted leaders, are assigned each 
to his place in the army. There are many blessed 
sights and many ways hither and thither within 
the heaven, along which the blessed gods go 
to and fro attending each to his own duties; and 
whoever wishes, and is able, follows, for jealousy is 
excluded from the celestial band. But when they go 
to a feast and a banquet, they proceed steeply 
upward to the top of the vault of heaven, where the 
chariots of the gods, whose well matched horses obey 
the rein, advance easily, but the others with difficulty ; 
for the horse of evil nature weighs the chariot down, 
making it heavy and pulling toward the earth the 
charioteer whose horse is not well trained. There 
the utmost toil and struggle await the soul. For 
those that are called immortal, when they reach the 
top, pass outside and take their place on the outer 
surface of the heaven, and when they have taken 
their stand, the revolution carries them round and 
they behold the things outside of the heaven. 

But the region above the heaven was never 
worthily sung by any earthly poet, nor will it ever 
be. It is, however, as I shall tell; for I must dare 
to speak the truth, especially as truth is my theme. 
For the colourless, formless, and intangible truly 


475 


248 


PLATO 


καὶ ἀναφὴς οὐσια ὄντως οὖσα ψυχῆς" κυβερνήτῃ 
μόνῳ ,"θεατὴ νῷ, περὶ ἣν τὸ τῆς ἀληθοῦς 
ἐπιστήμης γένος τοῦτον ἔχει τὴν τόπον. ἅτ᾽ * οὖν 
θεοῦ διάνοια νῷ τε καὶ ἐπιστήμῃ ἀκηράτῳ τρεφο- 
μένη καὶ ἁπάσης ψυχῆς, ὅση ἂν μέλλῃ τὸ προσ- 
ῆκον δέξεσθαι, ἰδοῦσα διὰ χρόνου τὸ ὃν ἀγαπᾷ 
τε καὶ θεωροῦσα τἀληθῆ τρέφεται καὶ εὐπαθεῖ, 
ἕως ἂν κύκλῳ ἡ περιφορὰ εἰς ταὐτὸν περιενέγκῃ" 
ἐν δὲ τῇ oil 6 καθορᾷ μὲν αὐτὴν δικαιοσύνην, 
τὸ τ δὲ σωφροσύνην, καθορᾷ δὲ ἐ ἐπιστήμην, οὐχ 

ἡ γένεσις πρόσεστιν, οὐδ᾽ ἥ ἐστίν που ἑτέρα ἐν 
ἑτέρῳ οὖσα ὧν ἡμεῖς νῦν ὄντων καλοῦμεν, ἀλλὰ 
τὴν ἐν τῷ ὅ ἐστιν ὃν ὄντως ἐπιστήμην οὖσαν" καὶ 
τᾶλλα ὡσαύτως τὰ ὄντα ὄντως θεασαμένη καὶ 
ἑστιαθεῖσα, δῦσα πάλιν εἰς τὸ εἴσω τοῦ οὐρανοῦ, 
οἴκαδε ἦλθεν, ἐλθούσης δὲ αὐτῆς ὁ ἡνίοχος πρὸς 
τὴν φάτνην τοὺς ἵππους στήσας παρέβαλεν ἀμ- 
βροσίαν τε καὶ ἐπ᾽ αὐτῇ νέκταρ ἐπότισεν. 

28. Καὶ οὗτος μὲν θεῶν βίος: αἱ δὲ ἄλλαι ψυ- 
χαί, ἡ μὲν ἄριστα θεῷ ἑπομένη καὶ εἰκασμένη 
ὑπερῆρεν εἰς τὸν ἔξω τόπον τὴν τοῦ ἡνιόχου 
κεφαλήν, καὶ ὶ συμπεριηνέχθη τὴν περιφοράν, θορυ- 
βουμένη ὑ ὑπὸ τῶν ἵππων καὶ “μόγις κα ορῶσα τὰ 
ὄντα" ἡ δὲ τοτὲ μὲν ἦρε, τοτὲ δ᾽ ἔδυ, βιαξομένων 
δὲ τῶν ἵππων τὰ μὲν εἶδεν, τὰ δ᾽ οὔ" αἱ δὲ δὴ ἄλλαι 
γλιχόμεναι μὲν ἅπασαι τοῦ ἄνω ἕπονται, ἀδυ- 
νατοῦσαι δὲ ὑποβρύχιαι ξυμπεριφέρονται, πα- 
τοῦσαι ἀλλήλας καὶ ἐπιβάλλουσαι, ἑτέρα πρὸ τῆς 


1 ψυχῇ οὖσα Β οὖσα ψυχῆς Τ. οὖσα Madvig, Schanz. 

2 ἅτ᾽ BT 4 τ᾽ Heindorf, Schanz. 

3 καὶ ἁπάσης. . . δέξεσθαι bracketed by Schanz, following 
Suckow. 


476 


PHAEDRUS 


existing essence, with which all true knowledge is 
concerned, holds this region and is visible only to 
the mind, the pilot of the soul. Now the divine 
intelligence, since it is nurtured on mind and pure 
knowledge, and the intelligence of every soul which 
is capable of receiving that which befits it, rejoices 
in seeing reality for a space of time and by gazing 
upon truth is nourished and made happy until the 
revolution brings it again to the same place. In the 
revolution it beholds absolute justice, temperance, 
and knowledge, not such knowledge as has a 
beginning and varies as it is associated with one 
or another of the things we call realities, but that 
which abides in the real eternal absolute ; and in the 
same way it beholds and feeds upon the other eternal 
verities, after which, passing down again within the 
heaven, it goes home, and there the charioteer puts 
up the horses at the manger and feeds them with 
ambrosia and then gives them nectar to drink. 

Such is the life of the gods; but of the other 
souls, that which best follows after God and is most 
like him, raises the head of the charioteer up into 
the outer region and is carried round in the revolu- 
tion, troubled by the horses and hardly beholding the 
realities ; and another sometimes rises and sometimes 
sinks, and, because its horses are unruly, it sees 
some things and fails to see others. The other souls 
follow after, all yearning for the upper region but 
unable to reach it, and are carried round beneath, 
trampling upon and colliding with one another, each 


477 


ro 


PLATO 


ἑτέρας πειρωμένη γενέσθαι. θόρυβος οὖν καὶ 
ἅμιλλα καὶ ἱδρὼς ἔσχατος γίγνεται, οὗ δὴ κακίᾳ 
ἡνιόχων πολλαὶ μὲν χωλεύονται, πολλαὶ δὲ 
πολλὰ πτερὰ θραύονται" πᾶσαι δὲ πολὺν ἔχουσαι 
πόνον ἀτελεῖς τῆς τοῦ ὄντος θέας ἀπέρχονται, 
καὶ ἀπελθοῦσαι τροφῇ δοξαστῇ χρῶνται. οὗ 
δ᾽ ἕνεχ᾽ ἡ πολλὴ σπουδὴ τὸ ἀληθείας ἰδεῖν πεδίον 
οὗ ἐστίν, ἥ τε δὴ προσήκουσα ψυχῆς τῷ ἀρίστῳ 
νομὴ ἐκ τοῦ ἐκεῖ λειμῶνος τυγχάνει οὖσα, ἥ τε τοῦ 
πτεροῦ φύσις, ᾧ ψυχὴ κουφίζεται, τούτῳ τρέ.- 
Berge. θεσμός τε ᾿Αδραστείας ὅδε, ἥ ἥτις ἂν ψυχὴ 
εῷ ξυνοπαδὸς γενομένη κατίδῃ τι τῶν ἀληθῶν, 
μέχρι τε τῆς ἑτέρας περιόδου εἶναι ἀπήμονα, κἂν 
ἀεὶ τοῦτο δύνηται ποιεῖν, ἀεὶ ἀβλαβῆ εἶναι. ὅταν 
δὲ ἀδυνατήσασα ἐπισπέσθαι μὴ ἴδῃ, καί τινι 
συντυχίᾳ χρησαμένη λήθης τε καὶ κακίας πλη- 
σθεῖσα ᾿βαρυνθῇ, βαρυνθεῖσα δὲ πτερορρυήσῃ τε 
καὶ ἐπὶ τὴν γῆν πέσῃ, τότε νόμος ταύτην μὴ 
φυτεῦσαι εἰς μηδεμίαν θήρειον φύσιν ἐν τῇ πρώτῃ 
γενέσει, ἀλλὰ τὴν μὲν πλεῖστα ἰδοῦσαν εἰς γονὴν 
ἀνδρὸς γενησομένου φιλοσόφου ἢ φιλοκάλου ἢ 
μουσικοῦ τινὸς καὶ ἐρωτικοῦ, τὴν δὲ δευτέραν εἰς 
βασιλέως ἐννόμου ΤῈ πολεμικοῦ καὶ ἀρχικοῦ, 
τρίτην εἰς πολιτικοῦ ἤ τινος οἰκονομικοῦ ἢ χρη- 
ματιστικοῦ, τετάρτην εἰς φιλοπόνου γυμναστικοῦ 
ἢ περὶ σώματος ἴασίν τινος ἐσομένου, πέμπτην 
μαντικὸν βίον. ἤ τινα τελεστικὸν ἔξουσαν' ἕκτῃ 
ποιητικὸς ἢ τῶν περὶ μίμησίν τις ἄλλος ἁρμόσει, 
ἑβδόμῃ δημιουργικὸς ἢ γεωργικός, ,ὀγδόῃ σοφι- 
στικὺς ἢ δημοτικός, ἐννάτῃ τυραννικός. 
1 οὗ is omitted by Schanz, following Madvig. 


478 


PHAEDRUS 


striving to passits neighbour. So there is the greatest 
confusion and sweat of rivalry, wherein many are 
lamed, and many wings are broken through the in- 
competence of the drivers; and after much toil they 
all go away without gaining a view of reality, and 
when they have gone away they feed upon opinion. 
But the reason of the great eagerness to see where 
the plain of truth is, lies in the fact that the fitting 
pasturage for the best part of the soul is in the 
meadow there, and the wing on which the soul is 
raised up is nourished by this. And this is a law of 
Destiny, that the soul which follows after God and 
obtains a view of any of the truths is free from harm 
until the next period, and if it can always attain 
this, is always unharmed; but when, through in- 
ability to follow, it fails to see, and through some 
mischance is filled with forgetfulness and evil and 
grows heavy, and when it has grown heavy, loses its 
wings and falls to the earth, then it is the law that 
this soul shall never pass into any beast at its first 
birth, but the soul that has seen the most shall enter 
into the birth of a man who is to be a philosopher or 
a lover of beauty, or one of a musical or loving 
nature, and the second soul into that of a lawful 
king or a warlike ruler, and the third into that of a 
politician or a man of business or a financier, the 
fourth into that of a hard-working gymnast or one 
who will be concerned with the cure of the body, 
and the fifth will lead the life of a prophet or some- 
one who conducts mystic rites; to the sixth, a poet 
or some other imitative artist will be united, to the 
seventh, a craftsman or a husbandman, to the eighth, 
a sophist or a demagogue, to the ninth, a tyrant. 


479 


249 


PLATO 


A 
29. Ἔν δὴ τούτοις ἅπασιν ὃς μὲν ἂν δικαίως 
΄, > ’ ld 
διαγάγη, ἀμείνονος μοίρας μεταλαμβάνει, ὃς δ᾽ ἂν 
»ὉΜ , ? Ως εἰ 
ἀδίκως, χείρονος. εἰς μὲν γὰρ τὸ αὐτὸ ὅθεν ἥκει 
Ἁ 7 rn fr 

ἡ ψυχὴ ἑκάστη οὐκ ἀφικνεῖται ἐτῶν μυρίων" ov 
\ a \ a 
yap πτεροῦται πρὸ τοσούτου Ypovov, πλὴν ἡ TOD 
φιλοσοφήσαντος ἀδόλως ἢ παιδεραστήσαντος μετὰ 
’ὔ » » 
φιλοσοφίας" αὗται δὲ τρίτῃ περιόδῳ τῇ χιλιετεῖ, 

ΥΝ \ ) a \ ’ - Ψ 
ἐὰν ἕλωνται τρὶς ἐφεξῆς τὸν βίον τοῦτον, οὕτω 
πτερωθεῖσαι τρισχιλιοστῷ ἔτει ἀπέρχονται" αἱ δὲ 
» “ Ν a , lA / 
ἄλλαι, ὅταν τὸν πρῶτον βίον τελευτήσωσε, κρί- 
σεως ἔτυχον, κριθεῖσαι δὲ αἱ μὲν εἰς τὰ ὑπὸ γῆς 
δικαιωτήρια ἐλθοῦσαι δίκην ἐκτίνουσιν, αἱ δ᾽ εἰς 
τοὐρανοῦ τινὰ τόπον ὑπὸ τῆς δίκης κουφισθεῖσαι 
διάγουσιν ἀξίως οὗ ἐν ἀνθρώπου εἴδει ἐβίωσαν 

- n , 

βίου. τῷ δὲ χιλιοστῷ ἀμφότεραι ἀφικνούμεναι 
ἐπὶ κλήρωσίν τε καὶ αἴρεσιν τοῦ δευτέρου βίου 

< nA a A >] / ¢€ , »” Ν ᾽ , 
αἱροῦνται ὃν ἂν ἐθέλῃ ἑκάστη" ἔνθα Kai εἰς θηρίου 

ὔ ? , \ > a Δ 3 4 
βίον ἀνθρωπίνη ψυχὴ ἀφικνεῖται, καὶ ἐκ θηρίου, 
ὅς ποτε ἄνθρωπος ἦν, πάλιν εἰς ἄνθρωπον. οὐ 
γὰρ ἥ γε μή ποτε ἰδοῦσα τὴν ἀλήθειαν εἰς τόδε 
ἥξει τὸ σχῆμα. δεῖ γὰρ ἄνθρωπον ξυνιέναι κατ᾽ * 
ΕῚ , ᾽ a rN > / 3 a 
εἶδος λεγόμενον, ἐκ πολλῶν ἰὸν αἰσθήσεων εἰς EV 
λογισμῷ Evvarpovpevov'? τοῦτο δ᾽ ἐστὶν ἀνά- 
μνησις ἐκείνων, ἅ ToT εἶδεν ἡμῶν ἡ ψυχὴ συμ- 
πορευθεῖσα θεῷ καὶ ὑπεριδοῦσα ἃ νῦν εἶναι, φαμεν, 

5) \ 

καὶ ἀνακύψασα εἰς TO ὃν ὄντως. διὸ δὴ δικαίως 
μόνη πτεροῦται ἡ τοῦ φιλοσόφου διάνοια" πρὸς 
/ \ [4 Ν 
γὰρ ἐκείνοις ἀεί ἐστιν μνήμῃ κατὰ δύναμιν, πρὸς 


1 Schanz inserts 7d after κατ᾽. 
2 Schanz, following Heindorf, reads ξυναιρουμένων, 


480 


PHAEDRUS 


Now in all these states, whoever lives justly 
obtains a better lot, and whoever lives unjustly, a 
worse. For each soul returns to the place whence 
it came in ten thousand years; for it does not regain 
its wings before that time has elapsed, except the 
soul of him who has been a guileless philosopher or 
a philosophical lover; these, when for three 
successive periods of a thousand years they have 
chosen such a life, after the third period of a 
thousand years become winged in the _ three 
thousandth year and go their way; but the rest, 
when they have finished their first life, receive 
judgment, and after the judgment some go to the 
places of correction under the earth and pay their 
penalty, while the others, made light and raised up 
into a heavenly place by justice, live in a manner 
worthy of the life they led in human form. But in 
the thousandth year both come to draw lots and 
choose their second life, each choosing whatever it 
wishes. Then a human soul may pass into the 
life of a beast, and a soul which was once human, 
may pass again from a beast into a man. For the 
soul which has never seen the truth can never pass 
into human form. For a human being must under- 
stand a general conception formed by collecting into 
a unity by means of reason the many perceptions of 
the senses ; and this is a recollection of those things 
which our soul once beheld, when it journeyed with 
God and, lifting its vision above the things which 
we now say exist, rose up into real being. And 
therefore it is just that the mind of the philosopher 
only has wings, for he is always, so far as he is able, 
in communion through memory with those things 


481 


200 


PLATO 


οἵσπερ θεὸς ὧν θεῖός ἐστιν. τοῖς δὲ δὴ τοιούτοις 
ἀνὴρ ὑπομνήμασιν ὀρθῶς χρώμενος, τελέους ἀεὶ 
τελετὰς τελούμενος, τέλεος ὄντως μόνος γίγνεται" 
ἐξιστάμενος δὲ τῶν ἀνθρωπίνων σπουδασμάτων 
καὶ πρὸς τῷ θείῳ γιγνόμενος νουθετεῖται μὲν ὑπὸ 
τῶν πολλῶν ὡς παρακινῶν, ἐνθουσιάξζων δὲ 
λέληθε τοὺς πολλούς. 

30. Ἔστιν δὴ οὖν δεῦρο ὁ πᾶς ἥκων λόγος περὶ 
τῆς τετάρτης μανίας, ἣν ὅταν τὸ τῇδέ τις ὁρῶν 
κάλλος, τοῦ ἀληθοῦς ἀναμιμνῃσκόμενος, πτερῶταί 
τε καὶ; ἀναπτερούμενος προθυμούμενος ἀναπτέ- 
σθαι, ἀδυνατῶν δέ, ὄρνιθος δίκην βλέπων ἄνω, 
τῶν κάτω δὲ ἀμελῶν, αἰτίαν ἔχει ὡς μανικῶς 
διακείμενος: ὡς ἄρα αὕτη πασῶν τῶν ἐνθου- 
σιάσεων ἀρίστη τε καὶ ἐξ ἀρίστων τῷ τε ἔχοντι 
καὶ τῷ κοινωνοῦντι αὐτῆς γίγνεται, καὶ ὅτι ταύτης 
μετέχων τῆς μανίας ὁ ἐρῶν τῶν καλῶν ἐραστὴς 
καλεῖται. καθάπερ γὰρ εἴρηται, πᾶσα μὲν ἀν- 
θρώπου ψυχὴ φύσει τεθέαται τὰ ὄντα, ἢ οὐκ ἂν 
ἦλθεν εἰς τόδε τὸ ζῷον," ἀναμιμνήσκεσθαι δ᾽ ἐκ 
τῶνδε ἐκεῖνα οὐ ῥάδιον ἁπάσῃ, οὔτε ὅσαι βραχέως 
εἶδον τότε τἀκεῖ, οὔτε αἱ δεῦρο πεσοῦσαι ἐδυσ- 
τύχησαν, ὥστε ὑπό τινων ὁμιλιῶν ἐπὶ τὸ ἄδικον 
τραπόμεναι λήθην ὧν τότε εἶδον ἱερῶν ἔχειν. 
ὀλίγαι δὴ λείπονται, αἷς τὸ τῆς μνήμης ἱκανῶς 
πάρεστιν: αὗται δέ, ὅταν τι τῶν ἐκεῖ ὁμοίωμα 
ἴδωσιν, ἐκπλήττονται καὶ οὐκέθ᾽ αὑτῶν γίγνον- 

1 Schanz omits τε καὶ. 


482 


PHAEDRUS 


the communion with which causes God to be divine. 
Now a man who employs such memories rightly is 
always being initiated into perfect mysteries and he 
alone becomes truly perfect; but since he separates 
himself from human interests and turns his attention 
toward the divine, he is rebuked by the vulgar, who 
consider him mad and do not know that he is 
inspired. 

All my discourse so far has been about the fourth 
kind of madness, which causes him to be regarded 
as mad, who, when he sees the beauty on earth, 
remembering the true beauty, feels his wings grow- 
ing and longs to stretch them for an upward flight, 
but cannot do so, and, like a bird, gazes upward and 
neglects the things below. My discourse has shown 
that this is, of all inspirations, the best and of the 
highest origin to him who has it or who shares in it, 
and that he who loves the beautiful, partaking in 
this madness, is called a lover. For, as has been 
said, every soul of man has by the law of nature 
beheld the realities, otherwise it would not have 
entered into a human being, but it is not easy for all 
souls to gain from earthly things a recollection of 
those realities, either for those which had but a 
brief view of them at that earlier time, or for those 
which, after falling to earth, were so unfortunate as 
to be turned toward unrighteousness through some 
evil communications and to have forgotten the holy 
sights they once saw. Few then are left which 
retain an adequate recollection of them; but these 
when they see here any likeness of the things of 
that other world, are stricken with amazement and 
can no longer control themselves; but they do not 


483 


PLATO 


a δι Ψ Ν 10 2 a ὃ Ἂν Ἀ Ἄν ¢ a“ 
ται, ὃ δ᾽ ἔστι τὸ πάθος ἀγνοοῦσιν διὰ τὸ μὴ ἱκανῶς 
διαισθάνεσθαι. δικαιοσύνης μὲν οὖν καὶ σωφρο- 

/ ¢ »)Ἤ ’ “ » ΨΥ 
σύνης, καὶ ὅσα ἄλλα τίμια ψυχαῖς, οὐκ ἔνεστι 

f ΦΊΘΟΝ 3) “ a e , > 4 > 
φέγγος οὐδὲν ἐν τοῖς τῇδε ὁμοιώμασιν, ἀλλὰ δι 
» a“ ᾽ al 
ἀμυδρῶν ὀργάνων μόγις αὐτῶν Kal ὀλίγοι ἐπὶ Tas 
εἰκόνας ἰόντες θεῶνται τὸ τοῦ εἰκασθέντος γένος" 

\ ΤΡ; 2 ? - / “ \ > 
κάλλος δὲ TOT ἦν ἰδεῖν λαμπρόν, ὅτε σὺν ev- 

, A , > , 
δαίμονι χορῷ μακαρίαν ὄψιν τε καὶ θέαν, ἑπόμενοι 
μετὰ μὲν Διὸς ἡμεῖς, ἄλλοι δὲ μετ᾽ ἄλλου θεῶν, 
4 ζω. \ 3 n a - A [4 
εἶδόν τε καὶ ἐτελοῦντο τῶν τελετῶν ἣν θέμις 
λέγειν μακαριωτάτην, ἣν ὠργιάξομεν ὁλόκληροι 
μὲν αὐτοὶ ὄντες καὶ ἀπαθεῖς κακῶν, ὅσα ἡμᾶς ἐν 
-ς / , e / e , \ \ εξ r 
ὑστέρῳ χρόνῳ ὑπέμενεν, ὁλόκληρα δὲ Kal ἁπλᾶ 
καὶ ἀτρεμῆ καὶ εὐδαίμονα φάσματα μνούμενοί τε 
καὶ ἐποπτεύοντες ἐν αὐγῇ καθαρᾷ, καθαροὶ ὄντες 
καὶ ἀσήμαντοι τούτου, ὃ νῦν σῶμα περιφέροντες 

͵ ͵ 
ὀνομάζομεν, ὀστρέου τρύπον δεδεσμευμένοι. 
nr , > 
31. Ταῦτα μὲν οὖν μνήμῃ κεχαρίσθω, δι ἣν 
A , fa) , 
πόθῳ τῶν τότε νῦν μακρότερα εἴρηται" περὶ δὲ 
» 
κάλλους, ὥσπερ εἴπομεν, μετ᾽ ἐκείνων τε ἔλαμπεν 
v a ’ be mamas 3 U Le » \ ὃ Ν a 
ὄν, δεῦρό τ᾽ ἐλθόντες κατειλήφαμεν αὐτὸ διὰ τῆς 
“ » / 
ἐναργεστάτης αἰσθήσεως τῶν ἡμετέρων στίλβον 
ἐναργέστατα. ὄψις γὰρ ἡμῖν ὀξυτάτη τῶν διὰ τοῦ 
/ e 4 ? 

σώματος ἔρχεται αἰσθήσεων, ἡ φρόνησις οὐχ 
ὁρᾶται---δεινοὺς γὰρ ἂν παρεῖχεν ἔρωτας, εἴ τι 

a wn ἣν" ? 
τοιοῦτον ἑαυτῆς ἐναργὲς εἴδωλον παρείχετο εἰς 

΄ a \ 
ὄψιν iov—kal τάλλα ὅσα ἐραστά: νῦν δὲ κάλλος 
- ? / 
μόνον ταύτην ἔσχε μοῖραν, ὥστ᾽ ἐκφανέστατον 
, € \ 2 \ ‘ a 
εἶναι Kal ἐρασμιώτατον. ὁ μὲν οὖν μὴ VEOTEANS ἢ 
484 


PHAEDRUS 


understand their condition, because they do not 
clearly perceive. Now in the earthly copies of 
justice and temperance and the other ideas which 
are precious to souls there is no light, but only a few, 
approaching the images through the darkling organs 
of sense, behold in them the nature of that which 
they imitate, and these few do this with difficulty. 
But at that former time they saw beauty shining in 
brightness, when, with a blessed company—vwe fol- 
lowing in the train of Zeus, and others in that of some 
other god—they saw the blessed sight and vision 
and were initiated into that which is rightly called 
the most blessed of mysteries, which we celebrated 
in a state of perfection, when we were without 
experience of the evils which awaited us in the time 
to come, being permitted as initiates to the sight of 
perfect and simple and calm and happy apparitions, 
which we saw in the pure light, being ourselves pure 
and not entombed in this which we carry about with 
us and call the body, in which we are imprisoned 
like an oyster in its shell. 

So much, then, in honour of memory, on ac- 
count of which I have now spoken at some length, 
through yearning for the joys of that other time. 
But beauty, as I said before, shone in brilliance 
among those visions; and since we came to earth 
we have found it shining most clearly through 
the clearest of our senses; for sight is the sharpest 
of the physical senses, though wisdom is not seen 
by it, for wisdom would arouse terrible love, if such 
a clear image of it were granted as would come 
through sight, and the same is true of the other 
lovely realities; but beauty alone has this privilege, 
and therefore it is most clearly seen and loveliest. 


485 


251 


PLATO 


διεφθαρμένος οὐκ ὀξέως ἐνθένδε ἐκεῖσε φέρεται 
πρὸς αὐτὸ τὸ κάλλος, θεώμενος αὐτοῦ τὴν τῇδε 
bd , Ὁ 5 > / la > 5.) ΞῈ 6 A 
ἐπωνυμίαν, ὥστ᾽ OV σέβεται προσορῶν, ἀλλ᾽ ἡδονῇ 
παραδοὺς τετράποδος νόμον βαίνειν ἐπιχειρεῖ καὶ 
παιδοσπορεῖν, καὶ ὕβρει προσομιλῶν οὐ δέδοικεν 
»ΌΣ > , \ ΄ e \ , € \ 
οὐδ᾽ αἰσχύνεται παρὰ φύσιν ἡδονὴν διώκων" ὁ δὲ 
? , ς a , / - \ 
ἀρτιτελής, ὁ τῶν τότε πολυθεάμων, ὅταν θεοειδὲς 
/ 
πρόσωπον ἴδῃ κάλλος εὖ μεμιμημένον ἤ τινα 
σώματος ἰδέαν, πρῶτον μὲν ἔφριξεν καί τι τῶν 
τότε ὑπῆλθεν αὐτὸν δειμάτων, εἶτα προσορῶν ὡς 
θεὸν σέβεται, καὶ εἰ μὴ ᾿δεδίει τὴν τῆς σφόδρα 
Ἢ , “ A . > / \ A An 
μανίας δόξαν, θύοι ἂν ὡς ἀγάλματι καὶ θεῷ τοῖς 
a , A / 
παιδικοῖς. ἰδόντα δ᾽ αὐτὸν οἷον ἐκ τῆς φρίκης 
’ Ἁ id Ἁ Ἂ, / x 7 
μεταβολή τε καὶ ἱδρὼς Kal θερμότης ἀήθης 
λαμβάνει: δεξάμενος γὰρ τοῦ κάλλους τὴν 
ἀπορροὴν διὰ τῶν ὀμμάτων ἐθερμάνθη, ἣ ἡ τοῦ 
aA , »Μ ὃ iL θέ δὲ ’ / 
πτεροῦ φύσις ἄρδεται,: θερμανθέντος δὲ ἐτάκη 
N \ »ὔ᾽ a ΄ « Ν f 
Ta περὶ τὴν ἔκφυσιν, ἃ πάλαι ὑπὸ σκληρότητος 
’ 
συμμεμυκότα εἶργε μὴ βλαστάνειν, ἐπιρρνείσης 
an A 4 > Ν 
δὲ τῆς τροφῆς φδησέ τε καὶ ὥρμησε φύεσθαι ἀπὸ 
a fal n Ν A MS a 
τῆς ῥίζης ὁ τοῦ πτεροῦ καυλὸς ὑπὸ πᾶν TO τῆς 
a a \ 4 \ ue 
ψυχῆς εἶδος: πᾶσα yap ἦν TO πάλαι πτερωτή. 
ΤΙ an = ΕῚ ΄ ef \ > / \ 
32. Zet οὖν ἐν τούτῳ ὅλη καὶ ἀνακηκίει, καὶ 
A \ 
ὅπερ τὸ τῶν ὀδοντοφυούντων πάθος περὶ TOUS 
γὼ 7 é ΄ Aue \ 
ὀδόντας γίγνεται, ὅταν ἄρτι φύωσιν, κνῆσις TE καὶ 
/ 
ἀγανάκτησις περὶ Ta οὗλα, ταὐτὸν δὴ πέπονθεν ἡ 
τοῦ πτεροφυεῖν ἀρχομένου ψυχή: ζεῖ τε καὶ 
a ‘5 
ἀγανακτεῖ Kal γαργαλίζεται φύουσα τὰ πτερά. 
ὅταν μὲν οὖν βλέπουσα πρὸς τὸ τοῦ παιδὸς 


486 1 Schanz brackets ἧ. . . ἄρδεται. 


PHAEDRUS 


Now he who is not newly initiated, or has been 
corrupted, does not quickly rise from this world to 
that other world and to absolute beauty when he 
sees its namesake here, and so he does not revere it 
when he looks upon it, but gives himself up to 
pleasure and like a heast proceeds to lust and 
begetting ; he makes licence his companion and is 
not afraid or ashamed to pursue pleasure in violation 
of nature. But he who is newly initiated, who 
beheld many of those realities, when he sees a god- 
like face or form which is a good image of beauty, 
shudders at first, and something of the old awe 
comes over him, then, as he gazes, he reveres the 
beautiful one as a god, and if he did not fear to be 
thought stark mad, he would offer sacrifice to his 
beloved as to an idol or a god. And as he looks 
upon him, a reaction from his shuddering comes over 
him, with sweat and unwonted heat; for as the 
effuence of beauty enters him through the eyes, he 
is warmed ; the effluence moistens the germ of the 
feathers, and as he grows warm, the parts from which 
the feathers grow, which were before hard and 
choked, and prevented the feathers from sprouting, 
become soft, and as the nourishment streams upon 
him, the quills of the feathers swell and begin to 
grow from the roots over all the form of the soul; 
for it was once all feathered. 

Now in this process the whole soul throbs and pal- 
pitates, and as in those who are cutting teeth there 
is an irritation and discomfort in the gums, when 
the teeth begin to grow, just so the soul suffers when 
the growth of the feathers begins; it is feverish and 
is uncomfortable and itches when they begin to grow. 
Then when it gazes upon the beauty of the boy and 


487 


202 


PLATO 


a , , 
κάλλος ἐκεῖθεν μέρη ἐπιόντα Kal ῥέοντ᾽, ἃ δὴ διὰ 
ταῦτα ἵμερος καλεῖται, δεχομένη ἄρδηταί τε καὶ 
’ - a 3 
θερμαίνηται, λωφᾷ τε τῆς ὀδύνης καὶ γέγηθεν" 
\ a 
ὅταν δὲ χωρὶς γένηται Kal αὐχμήσῃ, τὰ τῶν 
, / Φ \ Ἁ e a 
διεξόδων στόματα, ἡ τὸ πτερὸν ὁρμᾷ, συνανυαινό- 
4, > J A ,ὔ -» lal 
μενα μύσαντα ἀποκλήει THY βλάστην τοῦ πτεροῦ, 
A / a 
ἡ δ᾽ ἐντὸς μετὰ TOU ἱμέρου ἀποκεκλημένη, πηδῶσα 
2 \ ΄ a ; 5 7, εὐ ἐν a 
οἷον τὰ σφύζοντα, τῇ διεξόδῳ ἐγχρίει ἑκάστῃ TH 
καθ᾽ αὑτήν, ὥστε πᾶσα κεντουμένη κύκλῳ ἡ 
ψυχὴ οἰστρᾷ καὶ ὀδυνᾶται; μνήμην δ᾽ αὖ ἔχουσα 
τοῦ καλοῦ γέγηθεν. ἐκ δ᾽ ἀμφοτέρων μεμιγμένων 
a a , le) a 
ἀδημονεῖ τε TH ἀτοπίᾳ τοῦ πάθους καὶ ἀποροῦσα 
λυττᾷ, καὶ ἐμμανὴς οὖσα οὔτε νυκτὸς δύναται 
ὧν » > e 7 ea Ψ / A \ 
καθεύδειν οὔτε μεθ᾽ ἡμέραν od ἂν ἡ μένειν, θεῖ δὲ 
“ “ Ἃ " bl \ μὴ Ν 
ποθοῦσα, ὅπου ἂν οἴηται ὄψεσθαι τὸν ἔχοντα τὸ 
/ ᾽ [οἱ \ \ > , “ 
κάλλος: ἰδοῦσα δὲ καὶ ἐποχετευσαμένη ἵμερον 
\ \ / / \ 
ἔλυσε μὲν τὰ τότε συμπεφραγμένα, ἀναπνοὴν δὲ 
λαβοῦσα κέντρων τε καὶ ὠδίνων ἔληξεν, ἡδονὴν δ᾽ 
av ταύτην γλυκυτάτην ἐν τῷ παρόντι καρποῦται. 
A a 
ὅθεν δὴ ἑκοῦσα εἶναι οὐκ ἀπολείπεται, οὐδέ τινα 
τοῦ καλοῦ περὶ πλείονος “ποιεῖται, ἀλλὰ μητέρων 
τε καὶ ἀδελφῶν καὶ ἑταίρων πάντων λέλησται, 
καὶ οὐσίας δι᾽ ἀμέλειαν ἀπολλυμένης παρ᾽ οὐδὲν 
\ 
τίθεται, νομίμων δὲ καὶ εὐσχημόνων, οἷς πρὸ τοῦ 
ἐκαλλωπίζετο, πάντων καταφρονήσασα δουλεύειν 
ἑτοίμη καὶ κοιμᾶσθαι ὅπου ἂν ἐᾷ τις ἐγγυτάτω 
τοῦ πόθου" πρὸς γὰρ τῷ σέβεσθαι. τὸν τὸ κάλλος 
ἔχοντα ἰατρὸν ηὕρηκε μόνον τῶν μεγίστων πόνων. 
1 After δεχομένη the best MSS. read τὸν ἵμερον. Schanz 
follows Stallbaum in omitting it. 


488 


PHAEDRUS 


receives the particles which flow thence to it (for 
which reason they are called yearning),} it is moistened 
and warmed, ceases from its pain and is filled with 
joy ; but when it is alone and grows dry, the mouths 
of the passages in which the feathers begin to grow 
become dry and close up, shutting in the sprouting 
feathers, and the sprouts within, shut in with the 
yearning, throb like pulsing arteries, and each sprout 
pricks the passage in which it is, so that the whole 
soul, stung in every part, rages with pain; and then 
again, remembering the beautiful one, it rejoices. 
So, because ot these two mingled sensations, it is 
greatly troubled by its strange condition; it is per- 
plexed and maddened, and in its madness it cannot 
sleep at night or stay in any one place by day, but 
it is filled with longing and hastens wherever it hopes 
to see the beautiful one. And when it sees him and 
is bathed with the waters of yearning, the passages 
that were sealed are opened, the soul has respite from 
the stings and is eased of its pain, and this pleasure 
which it enjoys is the sweetest of pleasures at the 
time. Therefore the soul will not, if it can help 
it, be left alone by the beautiful one, but esteems 
him above all others, forgets for him mother and 
brothers and all friends, neglects property and cares 
not for its loss, and despising all the customs and 
proprieties in which it formerly took pride, it is ready 
to be a slave and to sleep wherever it is allowed, as 
near as possible to the beloved; for it not only 
reveres him who possesses beauty, but finds in him 
the only healer of its greatest woes. Now this 

1 The play on the words μέρη and ἵμερος cannot be rendered 
accurately in English. Jowett approaches a rendering by the 


use of the words motion and emotion, but emotion is too 
weak a word for ἵμερος. 


489 


PLATO 


~ 4 A / 4 “a / \ a / ¢€ 
τοῦτο δὲ TO πάθος, ὦ παῖ καλέ, πρὸς ὃν δή μοι ὁ 
λόγος, ἄνθρωποι μὲν Ἔρωτα ὀνομάζουσιν, θεοὶ δὲ 
ὃ καλοῦσιν ἀκούσας εἰκότως διὰ νεότητα γελάσει. 
λέγουσι δέ, οἶμαι, τινὲς Ὁ μηριδῶν ἐκ τῶν ἀπο- 
θέτων ἐπῶν δύο ἔ ἔπη εἰς τὸν "ἔρωτα, ὧν τὸ ἕτερον 
ὑβριστικὸν πάνυ καὶ οὐ σφόδρα τι ἔμμετροι' 
ὑμνοῦσι δὲ ὧδε; 

Ν Ψὲ ΟΥ̓ \ \ ” ἴω ΄ 

τὸν δ᾽ ἤτοι θνητοὶ μὲν "ἔρωτα καλοῦσι ποτηνοὸν, 

3 4 \ / Ἂν / δ / 

ἀθάνατοι δὲ Itépwra, διὰ πτεροφύτορ ἀνάγκην. 


τούτοις δὴ ἔξεστι μὲν πείθεσθαι, ἔξεστιν δὲ μή" 
ὅμως δὲ ἥ γε αἰτία καὶ τὸ πάθος τῶν ἐρώντων 
τοῦτο ἐκεῖνο τυγχάνει ὄν. 

38. Τῶν μὲν οὖν Διὸς ὀπαδῶν ὁ ὸ ληφθεὶς ἐμβρι- 
θέστερον δύναται φέρειν τὸ τοῦ πτερωνύμου 
ἄχθος. ὅσοι δὲ "A pews τε θεραπευταὶ καὶ μετ᾽ 
ἐκείνου περιεπόλουν, ὅταν ὑπ᾽ ἽΒρωτος ἁλῶσιν καί 
τι οἰηθῶσιν ἀδικεῖσθαι ὑπὸ τοῦ ἐρωμένου, φονικοὶ 
καὶ ἕτοιμοι καθιερεύειν αὑτούς τε καὶ τὰ παιδικά" 
καὶ οὕτω καθ᾽ ἕκαστον θεόν, οὗ ἕκαστος ἦν 
χορευτής, ἐκεῖνον τιμῶν τε καὶ μιμούμενος εἰς τὸ 
δυνατὸν ζῇ, ἕως ἂν 7 ἀδιάφθορος, καὶ τὴν τῇδε πρώ- 
την γένεσιν βιοτεύῃ, καὶ τούτῳ τῷ τρόπῳ πρός τε 
τοὺς ἐρωμένους καὶ πρὸς τοὺς ἄλλους ὁμιλεῖ τε καὶ 
προσφέρεται. τόν τε οὖν ἔρωτα. τῶν καλῶν πρὸς 
τρόπου ἐκλέγεται ἕκαστος, καὶ ὡς θεὸν αὐτὸν 
ἐκεῖνον ὄντα ἑαυτῷ οἷον ἄγαλμα τεκταίνεταί TE 
Kal κατακοσμεῖ, ὡς τιμήσων τε καὶ ὀργιάσων. οἱ 
μὲν δὴ οὖν Διὸς δῖόν τινα εἶναι ζητοῦσι τὴν 
ψυχὴν τὸν ὑφ᾽ αὑτῶν ἐρώμενον' σκοποῦσιν οὖν, 
εἰ φιλόσοφός τε καὶ ἡγεμονικὸς τὴν φύσιν, καὶ 
ὅταν αὐτὸν εὑρόντες ἐρασθῶσι, πᾶν ποιοῦσιν ὅπως 


499 


PHAEDRUS 


condition, fair boy, about which I am speaking, is 
called Love by men, but when you hear what the gods 
call it, perhaps because of your youth you will laugh. 
But some of the Homeridae, I believe, repeat two 
verses on Love from the spurious poems of Homer, 
one of which is very outrageous and not perfectly 
metrical. They sing them as follows : 

“ Mortals call him winged Love, but the immortals 
call him The Winged One, because he must needs 
grow wings.” 

You may believe this, or not; but the condition of 
lovers and the cause of it are just as I have said. 

Now he who is a follower of Zeus, when seized by 
Love can bear a heavier burden of the winged god ; 
but those who are servants of Ares and followed in 
his train, when they have been seized by Love and 
think they have been wronged in any way by the 
beloved, become murderous and are ready to sacrifice 
themselves and the beloved. And so it is with the 
follower of each of the other gods ; he lives, so far as 
he is able, honouring and imitating that god, so long 
as he is uncorrupted, and is living his first life on 
earth, and in that way he behaves and conducts 
himself toward his beloved and toward all others. 
Now each one chooses his love from the ranks of the 
beautiful according to his character, and he fashions 
him and adorns him like a statue, as though he were 
his god, to honour and worship him. The followers 
of Zeus desire that the soul of him whom they love 
be like Zeus; so they seek for one of philosophical 
and lordly nature, and when they find him and love 
him, they do all they can to give him such a character. 


491 


53 


PLATO 


a ” 9X = 4A f 9 σι 
τοιοῦτος ἔσται. ἐὰν οὖν μὴ πρότερον ἐμβεβῶσι 
rf 4 ’ 
τῷ ἐπιτηδεύματι, τότε ἐπιχειρήσαντες μανθάνουσί 
τε ὅθεν ἄν τι δύνωνται καὶ αὐτοὶ μετέρχονται, 
> » ~ 
iyvevovtes δὲ παρ᾽ ἑαυτῶν ἀνευρίσκειν τὴν τοῦ 
» ἢ fal \ \ ’ 
σφετέρου θεοῦ φύσιν εὐποροῦσι διὰ τὸ συντόνως 
> , Ν Ν A / \ 9 ΄ 
ἠναγκάσθαι πρὸς τὸν θεὸν βλέπειν, καὶ ἐφαπτό- 
A lel / nw 
μενοι αὐτοῦ TH μνήμῃ ἐνθουσιῶντες ἐξ ἐκείνου 
ἧς \ \ Ψ, 
λαμβάνουσι τὰ ἔθη καὶ τὰ ἐπιτηδεύματα, καθ᾽ 
ὅσον δυνατὸν θεοῦ ἀνθρώπῳ μετασχεῖν καὶ 
τούτων δὴ τὸν ἐρώμενον αἰτιώμενοι ἔτι τε μᾶλλον 
ἀγαπῶσι, xav' ἐκ Διὸς ἀρύτωσιν, ὥσπερ αἱ 
βάκχαι, ἐπὶ τὴν τοῦ ἐρωμένου ψυχὴν ἐπαντλοῦντες 
ποιοῦσιν ὡς δυνατὸν ὁμοιότατον» τῷ σφετέρῳ θεῷ. 
ὅσοι δ᾽ αὖ μεθ᾽ “ρας εἵποντο, βασιλικὸν ζητοῦσι, 
καὶ εὑρόντες περὶ τοῦτον πάντα δρῶσιν τὰ αὐτά. 
οἱ δὲ ᾿Απόλλωνός τε καὶ ἑκάστου τῶν θεῶν οὕτω 
5», wn \ ,ὔ A 
κατὰ Tov θεὸν ἰόντες ζητοῦσι τὸν σφέτερον παῖδα 
4 
πεφυκέναι, καὶ ὅταν κτήσωνται, μιμούμενοι αὐτοί 
, 
τε Kal τὰ παιδικὰ πείθοντες καὶ ῥυθμίζοντες εἰς 
\ 3 J 
τὸ ἐκείνου ἐπιτήδευμα καὶ ἰδέαν ἄγουσιν, ὅση 
tA ᾽ 
ἑκάστῳ δύναμις, οὐ φθόνῳ οὐδ᾽ ἀνελευθέρῳ δυσμε- 
’ὔ ’ὔ Ν Ἁ ΄ ’ 3 > « ’ 
νείᾳ χρώμενοι προς τὸ παιδικά, ἀλλ᾽ εἰς Guarana 
ς »“»Ἵ Ὁ rr nw ΄“΄ 
αὑτοῖς TO θεῷ, ὃν ἂν τιμῶσι, πᾶσαν πάντως ὅ τι 
μάλιστα πειρώμενοι ἄγειν οὕτω ποιοῦσι. προθυμία 
\ 2 na « 3 a > ΄ Ἀ ὔ 252 
μὲν οὖν τῶν ὡς ἀληθῶς ἐρώντων Kal τελετή, ἐάν 
ip A A φ 7 “ 
γε διαπράξωνται ὃ προθυμοῦνται ἧ λέγω, οὕτω 
¢ A rf » 
καλή τε καὶ εὐδαιμονικὴ ὑπὸ τοῦ δι’ ἔρωτα 
1 Schanz, following Madvig, reads y&v. 
492 


PHAEDRUS 


If they have not previously had experience, they 
learn then from all who can teach them anything ; 
they seek after information themselves, and when 
they search eagerly within themselves to find the 
nature of their god, they are successful, because they 
have been compelled to keep their eyes fixed upon 
the god, and as they reach and grasp him by memory 
they are inspired and receive from him character and 
habits, so far as it is possible for a man to have part 
in God. Now they consider the beloved the cause 
of all this, so they love him more than before, and if 
they draw the waters of their inspiration from Zeus, 
like the bacchantes, they pour it out upon the beloved 
and make him, so far as possible, like their god. 
And those who followed after Hera seek a kingly 
nature, and when they have found such an one, they 
act in a corresponding manner toward him in all 
respects ; and likewise the followers of Apollo, and of 
each of the gods, go out and seek for their beloved a 
youth whose nature accords with that of the god, and 
when they have gained his affection, by imitating the 
god themselves and by persuasion and education they 
lead the beloved to the conduct and nature of the 
god, so far as each of them can do so; they exhibit no 
jealousy or meanness toward the loved one, but 
endeavour by every means in their power to lead him 
to the likeness of the god whom they honour. Thus 
the desire of the true lovers, and the initiation into 
the mysteries of love, which they teach, if they 
accomplish what they desire in the way I describe, 
is beautiful and brings happiness from the inspired 
lover to the loved one, if he be captured; and the 


493 


D4 


PLATO 


”~ 


μανέντος φίλου τῷ φιληθέντι γίγνεται, ἐὰν αἱρεθῇ: 
ἁλίσκεται δὲ δὴ ὁ αἱρεθεὶς" τοιῷδε τρόπῳ. 

34. Καθάπερ ἐν ἀρχῇ τοῦδε τοῦ μύθου “τριχῇ 
διειλόμην ψυχὴν “ἑκάστην, ἱππομόρφω μὲν δύο 
τινὲ εἴδη, ἡνιοχικὸν δὲ εἶδος τρίτον, καὶ νῦν ἔτι 
ἡμῖν ταῦτα μενέτω. τῶν δὲ δὴ ἵ ἵππτων ὁ μέν, φαμέν, 
ἀγαθός, ὁ 0 δ᾽ οὔ" ἀρετὴ δὲ τίς τοῦ ἀγαθοῦ ἢ κακοῦ 
κακία, οὐ διείπομεν, νῦν δὲ λεκτέον. ὁ μὲν τοίνυν 
αὐτοῖν ἐν τῇ καλλίονι στάσει ὧν τό τε εἶδος ὀρθὸς 
καὶ διηρθρωμένος, ὑψαύχην, ἐπίγρυπος, λευκὸς 
ἰδεῖν, μελανόμματος, τιμῆς ἐραστὴς μετὰ σωφρο- 
σύνης τε καὶ αἰδοῦς, καὶ ἀληθινῆς δόξης ἑταῖρος, 
ἄπληκτος, κελεύματι μόνον καὶ λόγῳ ἡνιοχεῖται" 
ὁ δ᾽ αὖ σκολιός, πολύς, εἰκῇ συμπεφορημένος, 
κρατεραύχην, βραχυτράχηλος, σιμοπρόσωπος, 
μεχάγχρως, γλαυκομματος, ὕφαιμος, ὕβρεως καὶ 
ἀλαζονείας ἑταῖρος, περὶ ὦτα λάσιος, κωφός, 
μάστιγι μετὰ κέντρων μόγις ὑπείκων. ὅταν δ᾽ οὖν 
ὁ ἡνίοχος ἰδὼν τὸ ἐρωτικὸν ὄμμα, πᾶσαν αἰσθήσει 
διαθερμήνας τὴν ψυχήν, γαργαλισμοῦ τε καὶ 
πόθου κέντρων ὑποπλησθῇ, 0 pev εὐπειθὴς τῷ 
ἡνιόχῳ τῶν ἵππων, ἀεί τε καὶ τότε αἰδοῖ βιαξό- 
μενος, ἑαυτὸν κατέχει μὴ ἐπιπηδᾷν τῷ ἐρωμένῳ" 
ὁ δὲ οὔτε κέντρων ἡνιοχικῶν οὔτε μάστιγος, ἔτι 
ἐντρέπεται, σκιρτῶν δὲ βίᾳ φέρεται, καὶ πάντα 
πράγματα παρέχων τῷ σύξυγί τε καὶ ἡνιόχῳ 
ἀναγκάζει ἰέναι τε πρὸς τὰ παιδικὰ καὶ μνείαν 
ποιεῖσθαι τῆς τῶν ἀφροδισίων χάριτος. τὼ δὲ 
κατ᾽ ἀρχὰς μὲν ἀντιτείνετον ἀγανακτοῦντε, ὡς 
δεινὰ καὶ παράνομα ἀναγκαζομένω" τελευτῶντες 
δέ, ὅταν μηδὲ ἢ πέρας κακοῦ, πορεύεσθον 

1 Schanz brackets ὁ αἱρεθεὶς, following Badham. 


Oa 


494 


PHAEDRUS 


fair one who is captured is caught in the following 
manner :— 

In the beginning of this tale I divided each soul 
into three parts, two of which had the form of horses, 
the third that of a charioteer. Let us retain this 
division. Now of the horses we say one is good and 
the other bad; but we did not define what the 
goodness of the one and the badness of the other 
was. That we must now do. The horse that stands 
at the right hand is upright and has clean limbs ; he 
carries his neck high, has an aquiline nose, is white 
in colour, and has dark eyes ; he is a friend of honour 
joined with temperance and modesty, and a follower 
of true glory ; he needs no whip, but is guided only 
by the word of command and by reason. The other, 
however, is crooked, heavy, ill put together, his neck 
is short and thick, his nose flat, his colour dark, 
his eyes grey and bloodshot; he is the friend of 
insolence and pride, is shaggy-eared and deaf, hardly 
obedient to whip and spurs. Now when the charioteer 
beholds the love-inspiring vision, and his whole soul 
is warmed by the sight, and is full of the tickling and 
prickings of yearning, the horse that is obedient to 
the charioteer, constrained then as always by modesty, 
controls himself and does not leap upon the beloved ; 
but the other no longer heeds the pricks or the whip 
of the charioteer, but springs wildly forwerd, causing 
all possible trouble to his mate and to the charioteer, 
and forcing them to approach the beloved and propose 
the joys of love. And they at first pull back indig- 
nantly and will not be forced to do terrible and 
unlawful deeds; but finally, as the trouble has no 


495 


PLATO 


᾽ [2s ν \ « , , ‘ 
ἀγομένω, εἴξαντε Kal ὁμολογήσαντε ποιήσειν τὸ 
κελευόμενον. καὶ πρὸς αὐτῷ T ἐγένοντο καὶ εἶδον 
Ἁ A n 
τὴν ὄψιν THY TOV παιδικῶν ἀστράπτουσαν. 
f a 
35. Ἰδόντος δὲ τοῦ ἡνιόχου ἡ μνήμη πρὸς τὴν 
A 4 / ΄ 
τοῦ κάλλους φύσιν ἠνέχθη, καὶ πάλιν εἶδεν αὐτὴν 
Ἢ , ᾽ ς a , a 
μετὰ σωφροσύνης ἐν ἁγνῷ βάθρῳ BeBacav: 
> fal \ / \ al ᾽ / ¢€ / 
ἰδοῦσα δὲ ἔδεισέ τε Kal σεφθεῖσα ἀνέπεσεν ὑπτία, 
καὶ ἅμα ἠναγκάσθη εἰς τοὐπίσω ἑλκύσαι τὰς 
« / ef Ψ' σ΄ 3 b] \ Ἂν > ’ Μ 
Ο ἡνίας οὕτω σφόδρα, ὥστ᾽ ἐπὶ τὰ ἰσχία ἄμφω 
καθίσαι τὼ ἵππω, τὸν μὲν ἑκόντα διὰ τὸ μὴ 
ἀντιτείνειν, τὸν δὲ ὑβριστὴν μάλ᾽ ἄκοντα. ἀπελ- 
θόντε δὲ ἀπωτέρω, ὁ μὲν ὑπ᾽ αἰσχύνης τε καὶ 
θάμβους ἱδρῶτι πᾶσαν ἔβρεξε τὴν ψυχήν, ὁ δὲ 
λήξας τῆς ὀδύνης, ἣ ἣν ὑπὸ τοῦ χαλινοῦ τε ἔσχεν 
καὶ τοῦ πτώματος, μόγις ἐξαναπνεύσας ἐλοιδόρη- 
σεν ὀργῇ, πολλὰ κακίζων τόν τε ἡνίοχον καὶ 
D TOV ὁμόξυγα ὡς δειλίᾳ τε καὶ ἀνανδρίᾳ λιπόντε 
τὴν τάξιν καὶ ὁμολογίαν. καὶ πάλιν οὐκ ἐθέλοντας 
προσιέναι ἀναγκάζων μόγις συνεχώρησε δεομένων 
᾽ [οἱ ς / , Ν nr 
εἰσαῦθις ὑπερβαλέσθαι. ἐλθόντος δὲ τοῦ συντε- 
f a 
θέντος χρόνου, ἀμνημονεῖν προσποιουμένω ava- 
, 
μιμνήσκων, βιαζόμενος, χρεμετίζων, ἕλκων ἠνάγ- 
κασεν αὖ προσελθεῖν τοῖς παιδικοῖς ἐπὶ τοὺς 
΄ Uh 
αὐτοὺς λόγους, καὶ ἐπειδὴ ἐγγὺς ἦσαν, ἐγκύψας 
\ 
καὶ ἐκτείνας τὴν κέρκον, ἐνδακὼν τὸν χαλινόν, 
1D) μετ᾽ ἀναιδείας ἕλκει" ὁ δ᾽ ἡνίοχος ἔτε μᾶλλον 
ταὐτὸν “πάθος παθών, ὥσπερ ἀπὸ ὕσπληγος 
ἀναπεσών, ἔτι μᾶλλον τοῦ ὑβριστοῦ ἵππου ἐκ 
τῶν ὀδόντων βίᾳ ὀπίσω σπάσας τὸν χαλινόν, τήν 
τε κακήγορον γλῶτταν καὶ τὰς γνάθους καθήμαξεν 
καὶ τὰ σκέλη τε καὶ τὰ ἰσχία πρὸς τὴν γῆν 


496 


PHAEDRUS 


end, they go forward with him, yielding and agreeing 
to do his bidding. And they come to the beloved 
and behold his radiant face. 

And as the charioteer looks upon him, his memory 
is borne back to the true nature of beauty, and he 
sees it standing with modesty upon a pedestal of 
chastity, and when he sees this he is afraid and falls 
backward in reverence, and in falling he is forced to 
pull the reins so violently backward as to bring both 
horses upon their haunches, the one quite willing, 
since he does not oppose him, but the unruly beast 
very unwilling. And as they go away, one horse 
in his shame and wonder wets all the soul with 
sweat, but the other, as soon as he is recovered 
from the pain of the bit and the fall, before he has 
fairly taken breath, breaks forth into angry reproaches, 
bitterly reviling his mate and the charioteer for their 
cowardice and lack of manhood in deserting their 
post and breaking their agreement; and again, in 
spite of their unwillingness, he urges them forward 
and hardly yields to their prayer that he postpone 
the matter to another time. Then when the time 
comes which they have agreed upon, they pretend 
that they have forgotten it, but he reminds them; 
struggling, and neighing, and pulling he forces them 
again with the same purpose to approach the beloved 
one, and when they are near him, he lowers his head, 
raises his tail, takes the bit in his teeth, and pulls 
shamelessly. The effect upon the charioteer is the 
same as before, but more pronounced ; he falls back 
like a racer from the starting-rope, pulls the bit 
backward even more violently than before from the 
teeth of the unruly horse, covers his scurrilous tongue 
and jaws with blood, and forces his legs and haunches 


497 


55 


PLATO 


ἐρείσας ὀδύναις ἔδωκεν. ὅταν dé ταὐτὸν πολλάκις 
πάσχων ὁ πονηρὸς τῆς ὕβρεως λήξῃ, ταπεινωθεὶς 
ἕπεται ἤδη τῇ τοῦ ἡνιόχου προνοίᾳ, καὶ ὅταν iby 
τὸν καλόν, φόβῳ διόλλυται: ὥστε ξυμβαίνει τότ᾽ 
ἤδη τὴν τοῦ ἐραστοῦ ψυχὴν τοῖς παιδικοῖς αἰδου- 
μένην τε καὶ δεδιυῖαν ἕπεσθαι. 

80. Ατε οὖν πᾶσαν θεραπείαν ὡς ἰσόθεος 
θεραπευόμενος οὐχ ὑπὸ σχηματιζομένου τοῦ 
ἐρῶντος, ἀλλ’ ἀληθῶς τοῦτο πεπονθότος, καὶ 
αὐτὸς ὧν φύσει φίλος τῷ θεραπεύοντι, ἐὰν ἄρα 
καὶ ἐν τῷ πρόσθεν ὑπὸ ξυμφοιτητῶν ἤ τινων 
ἄλλων διαβεβλημένος ἦ, λεγόντων ὡς αἰσχρὸν 
ἐρῶντι πλησιάζειν, καὶ διὰ τοῦτο ἀπωθῇ τὸν 
ἐρῶντα: προϊόντος δὲ ἤδη τοῦ χρόνου ἥ τε ἡλικία 
καὶ τὸ χρεὼν ἤγαγεν εἰς τὸ προσέσθαι αὐτὸν εἰς 
ὁμιλίαν. οὐ γὰρ δή ποτε εἵμαρται κακὸν κακῷ 
φίλον οὐδ᾽ ἀγαθὸν μὴ φίλον ἀγαθῷ εἶναι. προσε- 
μένου δὲ καὶ λόγον καὶ ὁμιλίαν δεξαμένου, ἐγγύθεν 
ἡ εὔνοια γιγνομένη τοῦ ἐρῶντος ἐκπλήττει τὸν 
ἐρώμενον διαισθανόμενον, ὅτι οὐδ᾽ οἱ ξύμπαντες 
ἄλλοι φίλοι τε καὶ οἰκεῖοι μοῖραν φιλίας οὐδεμίαν 
παρέχονται πρὸς τὸν ἔνθεον φίλον. ὅταν δὲ 
χρονίζη τοῦτο δρῶν καὶ πλησιάζῃ μετὰ τοῦ 
ἅπτεσθαι ἔν τε γυμνασίοις καὶ ἐν ταῖς ἄλλαις 
ὁμιλίαις, τότ᾽ ἤδη ἡ τοῦ ῥεύματος ἐκείνου πηγή, 
ὃν ἵμερον Ζεὺς Γανυμήδους ἐρῶν ὠνόμασεν, πολλὴ 
φερομένη πρὸς τὸν ἐραστήν, ἡ μὲν εἰς αὐτὸν ἔδυ, 
ἡ δ᾽ ἀπομεστουμένου ἔξω ἀπορρεῖ: καὶ οἷον πνεῦμα 
ἤ τις ἠχὼ ἀπὸ λείων τε καὶ στερεῶν ἁλλομένη 


498 


PHAEDRUS 


to the ground, causing him much pain. Now when 
the bad horse has gone through the same experience 
many times and has ceased from his unruliness, he is 
humbled and follows henceforth the wisdom of the 
charioteer, and when he sees the beautiful one, he is 
overwhelmed with fear ; and so from that time on the 
soul of the lover follows the beloved in reverence 
and awe. 

Now the beloved, since he receives all service from 
his lover, as if he were a god, and since the lover is 
not feigning, but is really in love, and since the 
beloved himself is by nature friendly to him who 
serves him, although he may at some earlier time 
have been prejudiced by his schoolfellows or 
others, who said that it was a disgrace to yield 
to a lover, and may for that reason have repulsed 
his lover, yet, as time goes on, his youth and 
destiny cause him to admit him to his society. 
For it is the law of fate that evil can never be a 
friend to evil and that good must always be friend 
to good. And when the lover is thus admitted, and 
the privilege of conversation and intimacy has been 
granted him, his good will, as it shows itself in close 
intimacy, astonishes the beloved, who discovers that 
the friendship of all his other friends and relatives is as 
nothing when compared with that of his inspired lover. 
And as this intimacy continues and the lover comes 
near and touches the beloved in the gymnasia and 
in their general intercourse, then the fountain of 
that stream which Zeus, when he was in love with 
Ganymede, called “ desire ᾿᾿ flows copiously upon the 
lover; and some of it flows into him, and some, when 
he is filled, overflows outside ; and just as the wind 
or an echo rebounds from smooth, hard surfaces and 


499 


50 


PLATO 


πάλιν ὅθεν ὡρμήθη φέρεται, οὕτω τὸ τοῦ κάλλους 
ῥεῦμα πάλιν εἰς τὸν καλὸν διὰ τῶν ὀμμάτων ἰόν, 
ἢ πέφυκεν ἐπὶ τὴν ψυχὴν ἰέναι ἀφικόμενον, καὶ 
ἀναπτερῶσαν τὰς διόδους τῶν πτερῶν, ἄρδει τε 
καὶ ὥρμησε πτεροφυεῖν τε καὶ τὴν τοῦ ἐρωμένου 
αὖ ψυχὴν ἔρωτος ἐνέπλησεν. ἐρᾷ μὲν οὖν, ὅτου 
δέ, ἀπορεῖ" καὶ οὐδ᾽ 6 τι πέπονθεν οἶδεν οὐδ᾽ ἔχει 
φράσαι, ἀλλ᾽ οἷον ἀπ᾿ ἄλλου ὀφθαλμίας ἀπολε- 
λαυκὼς πρόφασιν εἰπεῖν οὐκ ἔχει, ὥσπερ δ᾽ ἐν 
κατύπτρῳ ἐν τῷ ἐρῶντι ἑαυτὸν ὁρῶν λέληθεν. καὶ 
ὅταν μὲν ἐκεῖνος παρῇ, λήγει κατὰ ταὐτὰ ἐκείνῳ 
τῆς ὀδύνης: ὅταν δὲ ἀπῇ, κατὰ ταὐτὰ αὖ ποθεῖ 
καὶ ποθεῖται, εἴδωλον ἔρωτος ἀντέρωτα ἔχων' 
καλεῖ δὲ αὐτὸν καὶ οἴεται οὐκ ἔρωτα ἀλλὰ φιλίαν 
εἶναι. ἐπιθυμεῖ δὲ ἐκείνῳ παραπλησίως μέν, 
ἀσθενεστέρως δέ, ὁρᾷν, ἅπτεσθαι, φιλεῖν, συγκατα- 
κεῖσθαι: καὶ δή, οἷον εἰκός, ποιεῖ τὸ μετὰ τοῦτο 
ταχὺ ταῦτα. ἐν οὖν τῇ συγκοιμήσει “τοῦ μὲν 
ἐραστοῦ O ἀκόλαστος ἵππος ἔχει ὁ τι λέγῃ πρὸς 
τὸν ἡνίοχον, καὶ ἀξιοῖ ἀντὶ πολλῶν πόνων σμικρὰ 
ἀπολαῦσαι: ὁ δὲ τῶν παιδικῶν ἔχει μὲν οὐδὲν 
εἰπεῖν, σπαργῶν δὲ καὶ ἀπορῶν περιβάλλει τὸν 
ἐραστὴν καὶ φιλεῖ, ὡς σφόδρ᾽ εὔνουν ἀσπαζόμενος" 
ὅταν τε συγκατακέωνται, οἷός ἐστι μὴ ἀπαρνη- 
θῆναι τὸ αὑτοῦ μέρος χαρίσασθαι τῷ ἐρῶντι, εἰ 
δεηθείη τυχεῖν" ὁ δὲ ὁμόζυξ αὖ μετὰ τοῦ ἡνιόχου 
πρὸς ταῦτα μετ᾽ αἰδοῦς καὶ λόγου ἀντιτείνει. 

37. ᾿Εὰν μὲν δὴ οὖν εἰς τεταγμένην τε δίαιταν 
καὶ φιλοσοφίαν νικήσῃ τὰ βελτίω τῆς διανοίας 
> f ΄ \ \ Ν \ 
ἀγαγόντα, μακάριον μὲν καὶ ὁμονοητικὸν τὸν 
ἐνθάδε βίον διάγουσιν, ἐγκρατεῖς αὑτῶν καὶ 
κόσμιοι ὄντες, δουλωσάμενοι μὲν ᾧ κακία ψυχῆς 
500 


PHAEDRUS 


returns whence it came, so the stream of beauty 
passes back into the beautiful one through the eyes, 
the natural inlet to the soul, where it reanimates the 
passages of the feathers, waters them and makes the 
feathers begin to grow, filling the soul of the loved 
one with love. So he is in love, but he knows not with 
whom ; he does not understand his own condition and 
cannot explain it ; like one who has caught a disease 
of the eyes from another, he can give no reason for 
it ; he sees himself in his lover as in a mirror, but is 
not conscious of the fact. And in the lover’s presence, 
like him he ceases from his pain, and in his absence, 
like him he is filled with yearning such as he inspires, 
and love’s image, requited love, dwells within him ; 
but he calls it, and believes it to be, not love, but 
friendship. Like the lover, though less strongly, he 
desires to see his friend, to touch him, kiss him, and 
lie down by him; and naturally these things are 
soon brought about. Now as they lie together, the 
unruly horse of the lover has something to say to 
the charioteer, and demands a little enjoyment in 
return for his many troubles; and the unruly horse 
of the beloved says nothing, but teeming with passion 
and confused emotions he embraces and kisses his 
lover, caressing him as his best friend; and when 
they lie together, he would not refuse his lover any 
favour, if he asked it; but the other horse and 
the charioteer oppose all this with modesty and 
reason. 

If now the better elements of the mind, which 
lead to a well ordered life and to philosophy, prevail, 
they live a life of happiness and harmony here on 
earth, self controlled and orderly, holding in sub- 
jection that which causes evil in the soul and giving 


501 


PLATO 


3 / 3 ΄ \ .« ᾽ / f 
ἐνεγίγνετο, ἐλευθερώσαντες δὲ ᾧ ἀρετή" τελευτή- 


σαντες δὲ δὴ ὑπόπτεροι καὶ ἐλαφροὶ γεγονότες 
τῶν τριῶν παλαισμάτων τῶν ws ἀληθῶς ᾿Ολυμ- 
πιακῶν ἕν νενικήκασιν, οὗ μεῖζον ἀγαθὸν οὔτε 
σωφροσύνη ἀνθρωπίνη οὔτε θεία μανία δυνατὴ 
πορίσαι ἀνθρώπῳ. ἐὰν δὲ δὴ διαίτῃ ,“φορτικωτέρᾳ 
τε καὶ ἀφιλοσόφῳ, φιλοτίμῳ δὲ χρήσωνται, τάχ᾽ 
ἄν που ἐν μέθαις ἤ ἤ τινε ἄλλῃ ἀμελείᾳ τὼ ἀκο- 
λάστω αὐτοῖν ὑποζυγίω λαβόντε τὰς “Ψυχὰς 
ἀφρούρους, ξυναγαγόντε εἰς ταὐτόν, τὴν ὑπὸ τῶν 
πολλῶν μακαριστὴν αἵρεσιν εἱλέσθην τε καὶ 
διεπτράξαντο' καὶ διαπραξαμένω τὸ λοιπὸν ἤδη 
χρῶνται μὲν αὐτῇ, σπανίᾳ δέ, ἅτε οὐ πάσῃ 
δεδογμένα τῇ διανοίᾳ πράττοντες. φίλω μὲν 
οὖν καὶ τούτω, ἧττον € ἐκείνων, ἀλλήλοιν διά τε 
τοῦ ἔρωτος καὶ ἔξω γενομένω διάγουσι, πίστεις 
τὰς μεγίστας ἡγουμένω ἀλλήλοιν δεδωκέναι τε 
καὶ δεδέχθαι, ἃς οὐ θεμιτὸν εἶναι λύσαντας εἰς 
ἔ θραν ποτὲ ἐλθεῖν. ἐν δὲ τῇ τελευτῇ ἄπτεροι 
μέν, ὡρμηκότες δὲ πτεροῦσθαι ἐκβαίνουσι τοῦ 
σώματος, ὥστε οὐ σμικρὸν ἄθλον τῆς ἐρωτικῆς 
μανίας φέρονται: εἰς γὰρ σκότον καὶ τὴν ὑπὸ γῆς 
πορείαν οὐ νόμος ἐστὶν ἔτι ἐλθεῖν τοῖς κατήργ- 
μένοις ἤδη τῆς ἐπουρανίου πορείας, ἀλλὰ φανὸν 
βίον διάγοντας εὐδαιμονεῖν μετ ἀλλήλων Topevo- 
μένους, καὶ ὁμοπτέρους ἔρωτος χάριν, ὅταν γέ- 
rh ae γενέσθαι. 

. Ταῦτα τοσαῦτα, @ παῖ, καὶ θεῖα οὕτω 
σοι haptic ἡ παρ᾽ ἐραστοῦ φιλία: ἡ δὲ ἀπὸ 
τοῦ μὴ ἐρῶντος οἰκειότης, σωφροσύνῃ θνητῇ 
κεκραμένη, θνητά. τε καὶ φειδωλὰ οἰκονομοῦσα, 
ἀνελευθερίαν ὑπὸ πλήθους ἐπαινουμένην ὡς 


502 


PHAEDRUS 


freedom to that which makes for virtue; and when this 
life is ended they are light and winged, for they have 
conquered in one of the three truly Olympic contests. 
Neither human wisdom nor divine inspiration can 
confer upon man any greater blessing than this. If 
however they live a life less noble and without 
philosophy, but yet ruled by the love of honour, 
probably, when they have been drinking, or in some 
other moment of carelessness, the two unruly horses, 
taking the souls off their guard, will bring them 
together and seize upon and accomplish that which 
is by the many accounted blissful ; and when this 
has once been done, they continue the practice, but 
infrequently, since what they are doing is not 
approved by the whole mind. So these two pass 
through life as friends, though not such friends as 
the others, both at the time of their love and 
afterwards, believing that they have exchanged the 
most binding pledges of love, and that they can 
never break them and fall into enmity. And at last, 
when they depart from the body, they are not winged, 
to be sure, but their wings have begun to grow, so 
that the madness of love brings them no small 
reward ; for it is the law that those who have once 
begun their upward progress shall never again pass 
into darkness and the journey under the earth, but 
shall live a happy life in the light as they journey 
together, and because of their love shall be alike in 
their plumage when they receive their wings. 

These blessings, so great and so divine, the friend- 
ship of a lover will confer upon you, dear boy; but 
the affection of the non-lover, which is alloyed with 
mortal prudence and follows mortal and parsimonious 
rules of conduct, will beget in the beloved soul the 


508 


57 


PLATO 


ἀρετὴν τῇ φίλῃ ψυχῇ ἐντεκοῦσα, ἐννέα χιλιάδας 
ἐτῶν περὶ γῆν κυλινδουμένην «αὐτὴν καὶ ὑπὸ γῆς 
ἄνουν παρέξει. αὕτη σοι, ὦ φίλε Ἔρως, εἰς 
ἡμετέραν δύναμιν ὅ τι καλλίστη καὶ ἀρίστη 
δέδοταί τε καὶ ἐκτέτισται παλινῳδία, τά τε 
ἄλλα καὶ τοῖς ὀνόμασιν ἠναγκασμένη ποιη- 
τικοῖς τίσιν διὰ Φαῖδρον εἰρῆσθαι. ἀλλὰ τῶν 
προτέρων τε συγγνώμην. καὶ τῶνδε χάριν ἔχων, 
εὐμενὴς καὶ ἵλεως τὴν EPOTLENY μοι τέχνην, ἣν 
ἔδωκας, μήτε ἀφέλῃ μήτε πηρώσῃς δι᾽ ὀργήν, 
δίδου δ᾽ ἔτε μᾶλλον ἢ νῦν παρὰ τοῖς καλοῖς τίμιον 
εἶναι. τῷ πρόσθεν δ᾽ εἴ τι λόγῳ σοι ἀπηνὲς 
εἴπομεν Paidpos τε καὶ ἐγώ, Λυσίαν τὸν τοῦ 
λόγου πατέρα αἰτιώμενος παῦε τῶν τοιούτων 
λόγων, ἐπὶ φιλοσοφίαν δέ, ὥσπερ ὃ ,ἀδελφὸς 
αὐτοῦ “Πολέμαρχος τέτραπται, τρέψον, ἵνα καὶ ὁ 
ἐραστὴς ὅδε αὐτοῦ μηκέτι ἐπαμφοτερίζῃ καθάπερ 
νῦν, ἀλλ᾽ ἁπλῶς πρὸς "Epwta μετὰ φιλοσόφων 
λόγων τὸν βίον ποιῆται. 

39. ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Συνεύχομαί σοι, ὦ Σώκρατες, 
εἴπερ ἄμεινον ταῦθ᾽ ἡμῖν εἶναι, ταῦτα γίγνεσθαι. 
τὸν λόγον δέ σου πάλαι θαυμάσας ἔχω, ὅσῳ 
καλλίω τοῦ προτέρου ἀπειργάσω" ὥστε ὀκνῶ μή 
μοι ὁ Λυσίας ταπεινὸς φανῇ, ἐὰν ἄρα καὶ ἐθελήσῃ 
πρὸς αὐτὸν ἄλλον ἀντιπαρατεῖναι. καὶ γάρ τις 
αὐτόν, ὦ θαυμάσιε, ἔ ἔναγχος τῶν πολιτικῶν τοῦτ᾽ 
αὐτὸ λοιδορῶν ὠνείδιζε, καὶ διὰ πάσης τῆς λοι- 
δορίας ἐκάλει λογογράφον" τάχ᾽ οὖν ἂν ὑπὸ 
φιλοτιμίας ἐπίσχοι ἡμῖν a ἂν τοῦ γράφειν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. IT ἐλοῖόν γ᾽, ὦ νεανία, τὸ δόγμα 
λέγεις, καὶ τοῦ ἑταίρου συχνὸν διαμαρτάνεις, εἰ 
αὐτὸν οὕτως ἡγεῖ τινὰ ψοφοδεᾶ. ἴσως δὲ καὶ 


504 


PHAEDRUS 


narrowness which the common folk praise as virtue ; 
it will cause the soul to be a wanderer upon the earth 
for nine thousand years and a fool below the earth at 
last. There, dear Love, thou hast my recantation, 
which I have offered and paid as beautifully and as 
well as I could, especially in the poetical expressions 
which I was forced to employ on account of Phaedrus. 
Pardon, I pray, my former words and accept these 
words with favour ; be kind and gracious to me; do 
not in anger take from me the art of love which thou 
didst give me, and deprive me not of sight, but grant 
unto me to be even more than now esteemed by the 
beautiful. And if in our former discourse Phaedrus 
and I said anything harsh against thee, blame Lysias, 
the father of that discourse, make him to cease from 
such speeches, and turn him, as his_ brother 
Polemarchus is turned, toward philosophy, that his 
lover Phaedrus may no longer hesitate, as he does 
now, between two ways, but may direct his life with 
all singleness of purpose toward love and philosophical 
discourses. 

PHAEDRUs. I join in your prayer, Socrates, and 
pray that this may come to pass, if this is best for us. 
But all along I have been wondering at your dis- 
course, you made it so much more beautiful than the 
first ; so that I am afraid Lysias will make a poor 
showing, if he consents to compete with it. Indeed, 
lately one of the politicians was abusing him for this 
very thing, and through all his abusive speech kept 
calling him a speech-writer; so perhaps out of pride 
he may refrain from writing. 

socraTes. That is an absurd idea, young man, and 
you are greatly mistaken in your friend if you think he 
is so much afraid of noise. Perhaps, too, you: think 


595 


D8 


PLATO 


τὸν λοιδορούμενον αὐτῷ οἴει νομίζοντα λέγειν ἃ 
ἔλεγεν. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Εφαίνετο γάρ, ὦ Σώκρατες: καὶ 
σύνοισθά που καὶ αὐτὸς ὅτι οἱ μέγιστον δυνά- 
μενοί τε καὶ σεμνότατοι ἐν ταῖς πόλεσιν αἰσχύ- 
vovTat λόγους τε γράφειν καὶ καταλείπειν συγ- 
γράμματα ἑαυτῶν, δόξαν φοβούμενοι τοῦ ἔπειτα 
χρόνου, μὴ σοφισταὶ καλῶνται. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Γλυκὺς ἀγκών, ὦ Φαῖδρε, λέληθέν 
ce! καὶ πρὸς τῷ ἀγκῶνι λανθάνει σε, ὅτι οἱ 
μέγιστον φρονοῦντες τῶν πολιτικῶν μάλιστα 
ἐρῶσι λογογραφίας τε καὶ καταλείψεως συγγραμ- 
μάτων, οἵ γε καὶ ἐπειδάν τινα γράφωσι λόγον, 
οὕτως ἀγαπῶσι τοὺς ἐπαινέτας, ὥστε ᾿προσπαρα- 

γράφουσι πρώτους, οἱ ἂν ἑκασταχοῦ ἐπαινῶσιν 
αὐτούς. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Πῶς λέγεις τοῦτο; οὐ γὰρ προς 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐ μανθάνεις ὅ ὅτι ἐν ἀρχῇ ? ἀνδρὸς 

πολιτικοῦ συγγράμματι πρῶτος ὁ ἐπαινέτης γέ- 

γραπται. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Iles; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. "Εδοξέν πού φησι τῇ βουλῇ ἢ ἢ τῷ 
δήμῳ ἢ ἀμφοτέροις, καὶ ὃς εἶπε, τὸν αὑτὸν δὴ 
λέγων μάλα τ καὶ ἐγκωμιάζων ὁ 0 συγγραφεύς, 
ἔπειτα λέγει δὴ 8 μετὰ τοῦτο, ἐπιδεικνύμενος τοῖς 
ἐπαινέταις τὴν ἑαυτοῦ σοφίαν, ἐνίοτε πάνυ μακρὸν 

1 After λέληθέν σε the MSS. read ὅτι ἀπὸ τοῦ μακροῦ ἀγκῶνος 
τοῦ κατὰ Νεῖλον ἐκλήθη. Schanz and Burnet bracket these 
words, following Heindorf. 

2 Schanz, following Madvig, brackets ἀρχῇ. Burnet 


brackets συγγράμματι below. 
3 Schanz, following Krische, inserts τὸ after δὴ. 


506 


PHAEDRUS 


the man who abused him believed what he was 
saying. 

PHAEDRUS. He seemed to believe, Socrates; and 
you know yourself that the most influential and im- 
portant men in our cities are ashamed to write 
speeches and leave writings behind them, through 
fear of being called sophists by posterity. 

SOCRATES. You seem to be unacquainted with the 
“sweet elbow,’ ! Phaedrus, and besides the elbow, 
you seem not to know that the proudest of the 
statesmen are most fond of writing and of leaving 
writings behind them, since they care so much for 
praise that when they write a speech they add at the 
beginning the names of those who praise them in 
each instance. 

pHAEDRUS. What do you mean? I don’t under- 
stand. 

SOCRATES. You don’t understand that the name of 
the approver is written first in the writings of 
statesmen. 

PHAEDRUS. How so? 

socRaTes. The writer says, “It was voted by the 
senate (or the people, or both), and so-and-so moved,” 
mentioning his own name with great dignity and 
praise, then after that he goes on, displaying his own 
wisdom to his approvers, and sometimes making a 
very long document. Does it seem to you that a 

1 This isa proverbial expression, similar in meaning to our 
‘‘sour grapes.” Theexplanation given inthe MSS., that the 
sweet elbow gets its name from the long bend, or ‘elbow, in 


the Nile may be an addition by some commentator; at any 
rate, it hardly fits our passage. 


5°7 


PLATO 


B ποιησάμενος σύγγραμμα' ἤ σοι ἄλλο τι φαίνεται 
τὸ τοιοῦτον ἢ λόγος συγγεγραμμένος; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Οὐκ ἔ ἔμοιγε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν ἐὰν μὲν. οὗτος ἐμμένῃ, ἦε: 

γηθὼς ἀπέρχεται. ἐκ τοῦ θεάτρου ὁ ὁ ποιητής" ἐὰν 
δὲ ἐξαλιφῇ καὶ ἄμοιρος γένηται λογογραφίας τε 
καὶ τοῦ ἄξιος εἶναι συγγράφειν, πενθεῖ αὐτός τε 
καὶ οἱ ἑταῖροι. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Καὶ μάλα. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Δῆλόν γε ὅτι οὐχ ὡς ὑπερφρονοῦντες 
τοῦ ἐπιτηδεύματος, ἀλλ᾽ ὡς τεθαυμακότες. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Πάνυ μὲν. οὗν. 

Ο. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί δέ; ὅταν ἱκανὸς γένηται ῥήτωρ 
ἢ βασιλεὺς ὥστε λαβὼν τὴν Λυκούργου ἢ Σό- 
λωνος ἢ Δαρείου δύναμιν ἀθάνατος γενέσθαι 
λογογράφος ἐν πόλει, ἄρ' οὐκ ἰσόθεον ἡγεῖται 
αὐτός τε αὑτὸν ἔτι ζῶν, καὶ οἱ ἔπειτα γιγνόμενοι 
ταὐτὰ ταῦτα περὶ αὐτοῦ νομίζουσι, θεώμενοι 
αὐτοῦ τὰ συγγράμματα; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Καὶ μάλα. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οἴει τινὰ οὖν τῶν τοιούτων, ὅστις 
καὶ ὁπωστιοῦν δύσνους Λυσίᾳ, ὀνειδίζειν αὐτὸ 
τοῦτο ὅτι συγγράφει; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Οὔκουν εἰκός γε ἐξ ὦ ὧν σὺ λέγεις" καὶ 
γὰρ ἂν τῇ ἑαυτοῦ ἐπιθυμίᾳ, ὡς ἔοικεν, ὀνειδίξοι. 

D 40. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τοῦτο μὲν ἄρα παντὶ δῆλον, 
ὅτι οὐκ αἰσχρὸν αὐτό γε τὸ γράφειν λόγους. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τί γάρ; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ᾿Αλλ᾽ ἐκεῖνο οἶμαι aic ρὸν ἤδη, 
τὸ μὴ καλῶς λέγειν τε καὶ γράφειν, ἀλλ᾽ αἰσχρῶς 
τε καὶ κακῶς. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Δῆλον δή. 


508 


PHAEDRUS 


thing of that sort is anything else than a written 
speech ? 

PHAEDRUS. No, certainly not. 

socraTEs, Then if this speech is approved, the 
writer leaves the theatre in great delight; but if it 
is not recorded and he is not granted the privilege 
of speech-writing and is not considered worthy to 
be an author, he is grieved, and his friends with him. 

PHAEDRUS. Decidedly. 

socraTes. Evidently not because they despise the 
profession, but because they admire it. 

PHAEDRus. To be sure. 

socraTEs, Well then, when an orator or a king is 
able to rival the greatness of Lycurgus or Solon or 
Darius and attain immortality as a writer in the state, 
does he not while living think himself equal to the 
gods, and has not posterity the same opinion of him, 
when they see his writings? 

PHAEDRUs. Very true. 

socraTges. Do you think, then, that any of the 
statesmen, no matter how ill-disposed toward Lysias, 
reproaches him for being a writer? 

PHAEDRUS. It is not likely, according to what you 
say; for he would be casting reproach upon that 
which he himself desires to be. 

socraTEs. Then that is clear to all, that writing 
speeches is not in itself a disgrace. 

PHAEDRUs. How can it be? 

SOCRATES. But the disgrace, I fancy, consists in 
speaking or writing not well, but disgracefully and 
badly. 

pHAEDRUS. Evidently. 


509 


59 


PLATO 


ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τίς οὖν ὁ τρόπος τοῦ καλῶς TE Kal 
μὴ γράφειν; δεόμεθά τι, ὦ Φαῖδρε, Λυσίαν τε 
περὶ τούτων ἐξετάσαι καὶ ἄλλον, ὅστις πώποτέ τι 
γέγραφεν ἢ γράψει, εἴτε πολιτικὸν σύγγραμμα 
εἴτε ἰδιωτικόν, ἐν μέτρῳ ὡς ποιητής, ἢ ἄνευ μέτρου 
ὡς ἰδιώτης; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Ερωτᾶς εἰ δεόμεθα; τίνος μὲν οὖν 
ἕνεκα κἂν τις ὡς εἰπεῖν ζῴη, ἀλλ᾽ ἢ τῶν τοιούτων 
ἡδονῶν ἕ ἕνεκα; οὐ γάρ που ἐκείνων γε ὧν προλυ- 
πηθῆναι δεῖ ἢ ἢ μηδὲ ἡσθῆναι, ὃ ὃ δὴ ὀλίγου πᾶσαι 
αἱ περὶ τὸ σῶμα ἡδοναὶ ἔχουσι: διὸ καὶ δικαίως 
ἀνδραποδώδεις κέκληνται. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Σχολὴ μὲν δή, ὡς ἔοικε: καὶ ἅμα 
μοι δοκοῦσιν ὡς ἐν τῷ πνίγει ὑπὲρ κεφαλῆς ἡμῶν 
οἱ τέττιγες ἄδοντες, καὶ ἀλλήλοις διαλεγόμενοι 
καθορᾶν. εἰ οὖν ἴδοιεν καὶ νὼ καθάπερ τοὺς 
πολλοὺς ἐν μεσημβρίᾳ μὴ διαλεγομένους, ἀλλὰ 
νυστάζοντας καὶ κηλουμένους ὑφ᾽ αὑτῶν bv ἀργίαν 
τῆς διανοίας, δικαίως ἂν καταγέλῷεν, ἡγούμενοι 
ἀνδράποδα atta σφίσιν ἐλθόντα εἰς τὸ κατα- 
γώγιον ὥσπερ προβάτια μεσημβριάζοντα περὶ 
τὴν κρήνην εὕδειν: ἐὰν δὲ ὁρῶσι διαλεγομένους 
καὶ παραπλέοντάς σφας ὥσπερ Σειρῆνας ἀκηλή- 
Tous, ὃ γέρας παρὰ θεῶν ἔχουσιν ἀνθρώποις 
διδόναι, τάχ᾽ ἂν δοῖεν ἀγασθέντες. 

41. ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. "ἔχουσι δὲ δὴ τί τοῦτο; ἀνήκοος 
γάρ, ὡς ἔοικε, τυγχάνω ὦν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐ μὲν δὴ πρέπει γε φιλόμουσον 
ἄνδρα τῶν τοιούτων ἀνήκοον εἶναι" λέγεται δ᾽ ὥς 
ποτ᾿ ἦσαν οὗτοι ἄνθρωποι τῶν πρὶν Μούσας 
γεγονέναι, γενομένων δὲ Μουσῶν καὶ φανείσης 
ὠδῆς οὕτως ἄρα τινὲς τῶν τότε ἐξεπλάγησαν ὑφ᾽ 
510 


PHAEDRUS 


socrates. What, then, is the method of writing 
well or badly? Do we want to question Lysias 
about this, and anyone else who ever has written or 
will write anything, whether a public or private 
document, in verse or in prose, be he poet or ordinary 
man ? 

PHAEDRUs. You ask if we want to question them ὃ 
What else should one live for, so to speak, but for 
such pleasures? Certainly not for those which cannot 
be enjoyed without previous pain, which is the case 
with nearly all bodily pleasures and causes them to 
be justly called slavish. 

socraTEs. We have plenty of time, apparently ; 
and besides, the locusts seem to be looking down 
upon us as they sing and talk with each other in the 
heat. Now if they should see us not conversing at 
mid-day, but, like most people, dozing, lulled to sleep 
by their song because of our mental indolence, they 
would quite justly laugh at us, thinking that some 
slaves had come to their resort and were slumbering 
about the fountain at noon like sheep. But if they 
see us conversing and sailing past them unmoved by 
the charm of their Siren vpices, perhaps they will be 
pleased and give us the gift which the gods bestowed 
on them to give to men. 

pHAEDRUs. What is this gift? I don’t seem to 
have heard of it. 

socRATES. It is quite improper for a lover of the 
Muses never to have heard of such things. The 
story goes that these locusts were once men, before 
the birth of the Muses, and when the Muses were 
born and song appeared, some of the men were so 


51x 


PLATO 


G ἡδονῆς, ὥστε ἄδοντες ἠμέλησαν σίτων TE Kal 


60 


ποτῶν, καὶ ἔλαθον τελευτήσαντες αὑτούς" ἐξ ὧν 
τὸ τεττίγων γένος μετ᾽ ἐκεῖνο φύεται, γέρας τοῦτο 
παρὰ Μουσῶν λαβόν, μηδὲν τροφῆς δεῖσθαι 
γενόμενον,1 ἀλλ᾽ ἄσιτόν TE καὶ ἄποτον εὐθὺς ἄδειν, 
ἕως ἂν τελευτήσῃ, καὶ μετὰ ταῦτα ἐλθὸν παρὰ 
Μούσας ἀπαγγέλλειν, τίς τίνα αὐτῶν τιμᾷ τῶν 
ἐνθάδε. Τερψιχόρᾳ μὲν οὖν τοὺς ἐν τοῖς χοροῖς 
τετιμηκότας αὐτὴν ἀπαγγέλλοντες ποιοῦσι προσ- 
φιλεστέρους, τῇ δὲ ᾿Ερατοῖ τοὺς ἐν τοῖς ἐρωτικοῖς, 
καὶ ταῖς ἄλλαις οὕτω, κατὰ τὸ εἶδος ἑκάστης 
τιμῆς" τῇ δὲ πρεσβυτάτῃ Καλλιόπῃ καὶ τῇ μετ᾽ 
αὐτὴν Οὐρανίᾳ τοὺς ἐν φιλοσοφίᾳ διάγοντάς τε 
καὶ τιμῶντας τὴν, ἐκείνων μουσικὴν ἀγγέλλουσιν, 
αἱ δὴ μάλιστα τῶν Μουσῶν περί τε οὐρανὸν καὶ 
λόγους οὖσαι θείους τε καὶ ἀνθρωπίνους tact 
καλλίστην φωνήν. πολλῶν δὴ οὖν ἕνεκα λεκτέον 
τι καὶ οὐ καθευδητέον ἐ ἐν τῇ μεσημβρίᾳ. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. λΛεκτέον γὰρ οὖν. 

49. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν, ὅ ὅπερ νῦν προὐθέμεθα 
σκέψασθαι, τὸν λόγον ὅπῃ καλῶς ἔχει λέγειν τε 
καὶ γράφειν καὶ ὅπῃ μή, σκεπτέον. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Δῆλον. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. "Ap’ οὖν οὐχ ὑπάρχειν δεῖ τοῖς εὖ 
γε καὶ καλῶς ῥηθησομένοις τὴν τοῦ λέγοντος. διά- 
νοιαν εἰδυῖαν T ἀληθὲς ὧν ἂν ἐρεῖν πέρι μέχλῃ; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Οὑτωσὶ περὶ τούτου ἀκήκοα, ὦ φίλε 
Σώκρατες, οὐκ εἶναι ἀνάγκην τῷ μέλλοντι ῥήτορι 
ἔσεσθαι τὰ τῷ ὄντι δίκαια μανθάνειν, ἀλλὰ τὰ 
δόξαντ᾽ ἂν πλήθει, οἵπερ δικάσουσιν, οὐδὲ τὰ 
ὄντως ἀγαθὰ ἢ καλά, ἀλλ᾽ ὅσα δόξει: ἐκ γὰρ 

1 Schanz, following Badham, puts γενόμενον after εὐθύς. 
512 


PHAEDRUS 


overcome with delight that they sang and sang, 
forgetting food and drink, until at last uncon- 
sciously they died. From them the locust tribe 
afterwards arose, and they have this gift from the 
Muses, that from the time of their birth they need 
no sustenance, but sing continually, without food or 
drink, until they die, when they go to the Muses and 
report who honours each of themonearth. They tell 
Terpsichore of those who have honoured her in dances, 
and make them dearer to her; they gain the favour 
of Erato for the poets of love, and that of the other 
Muses for their votaries, according to their various 
ways of honouring them; and to Calliope, the eldest 
of the Muses, and to Urania who is next to her, 
they make report of those who pass their lives in 
philosophy and who worship these Muses who are 
most concerned with heaven and with thought divine 
and human and whose music is the sweetest. So for 
many reasons we ought to talk and not sleep in the 
noontime. 

PHAEDRus. Yes, we ought to talk. 

socraTEs. We should, then, as we were proposing 
just now, discuss the theory of good (or bad) speaking 
and writing. 

PHAEDRUs. Clearly. 

socRATES. If a speech is to be good, must not the 
mind of the speaker know the truth about the matters 
of which he is to speak? 

PHAEDRUs. On that point, Socrates, I have heard 
that one who is to be an orator does not need to know 
what is really just, but what would seem just to the 
multitude who are to pass judgment, and not what 
is really good or noble, but what will seem to be so; 


5.59 


PLATO 


τούτων εἶναι τὸ πείθειν, ἀλλ᾽ οὐκ ἐκ τῆς ἀλη- 
θείας. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὔτοι ἀπόβλητον ἔπος εἶναι δεῖ, @ 
Φαῖδρε, ὃ Ὁ ἂν εἴπωσι σοφοί, ἀλλὰ σκοπεῖν μὴ τι 
A€ywou καὶ δὴ καὶ τὸ νῦν λεχθὲν οὐκ ἀφετέον. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Ὀρθῶς λέγεις. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ὧδε δὴ σκοπῶμεν αὐτό. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Πῶς; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. El σε πείθοιμι ἐγὼ πολεμίους ἀμύνειν 
κτησάμενον ἵππον, ἄμφω δὲ ἵππον ἀγνοοῖμεν, 
τοσόνδε μέντοι τυγχάνοιμι εἰδὼς περὶ σοῦ, ὅτι 
Φαῖδρος ἵππον ἡγεῖται τὸ τῶν ἡμέρων ζῴων 
μέγιστα ἔχον ὦτα--- 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Γελοῖόν γ᾽ ἄν, ὦ Σώκρατες, εἴη. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὔπω ye’ ἀλλ᾽ ὅτε σπουδῇ σε 
πείθοιμι, συντιθεὶς λόγον ἔπαινον κατὰ τοῦ ὄνου, 
ἵππον ἐπονομάζων καὶ λέγων ὡς παντὸς ἄξιον τὸ 
θρέμμα οἴκοι τε κεκτῆσθαι καὶ ἐπὶ στρατείας, 
ἀποπολεμεῖν τε χρήσιμον, καὶ προσενεγκεῖν δυνα- 
τὸν σκεύη καὶ ἄλλα πολλὰ ὠφέλιμον. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. ΠΠαγγέλοιόν γ᾽ ἂν ἤδη εἴη. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. "Ap οὖν οὐ κρεῖττον γελοῖον ἢ δεινόν 
τε καὶ ἐχθρὸν εἶναι; 3 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Φαίνεται. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. “Ὅταν οὖν ὁ ῥητορικὸς ἀγνοῶν ἀγαθὸν 
καὶ κακόν, λαβὼν Το ὡσαύτως ἔχουσαν πείθῃ, 
μὴ περὶ ὄνου σκιᾶς 5 ὡς ἵππου τὸν ἔπαινον ποιού- 
μενος, ἀλλὰ περὶ κακοῦ ὡς ἀγαθοῦ, δόξας δὲ 


a 


1 Schanz, following Schaefer, reads λέγουσι. 

2 εἶναι ἢ φίλον BT. Schanz follows Bekker in omitting 
ἢ φίλον. 

3 Schanz follows Spalding in omitting σκιᾶς. 


514 


4 


PHAEDRUS 


for they say that persuasion comes from what seems 
to be true, not from the truth. 

socraTEs. ‘The word,’ Phaedrus, which the wise 
“ speak must not be rejected,’ 1 but we must see if 
they are right; so we must not pass by this which 
you just said. 

PHAEDRUs. You are right. 

socratTEs. Let us then examine it in this way. 

PHAEDRUS. How? 

socraTes. If I should urge you to buya horse and 
fight against the invaders, and neither of us knew 
what a horse was, but I merely knew this about you, 
that Phaedrus thinks a horse is the one of the tame 
animals which has the longest ears— 

PHAEDRUuS. It would be ridiculous, Socrates. 

socraTEs. No, not yet; but if I tried to persuade 
you in all seriousness, composing a speech in praise 
of the ass, which I called a horse, and saying that 
the beast was a most valuable possession at home and 
in war, that you could use him as a mount in battle, 
and that he was able to carry baggage and was useful 
for many other purposes— 

PHAEDRUS. Then it would be supremely ridiculous. 

socrATEs. But is it not better to be ridiculous 
than to be clever and an enemy? 

PHAEDRUS. ‘To be sure. 

socraTEs. Then when the orator who does not 
know what good and evil are undertakes to persuade 
a state which is equally ignorant, not by praising the 
“ shadow of an ass”’ 2 under the name of a horse, but 
by praising evil under the name of good, and having 
studied the opinions of the multitude persuades them 


1 Homer, Iliad ii. 361. * A proverbial expression. 


515 


261 


PLATO 


πλήθους μεμελετηκὼς πείσῃ κακὰ πράττειν ἀντ᾽ 
ἀγαθῶν, 7 ποῖόν τινα οἴει μετὰ ταῦτα τὴν ῥητορικὴν 
καρπὸν ὧν ἔσπειρε θερίζειν; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Οὐ πάνυ γε ἐπιεικῆ. 

43. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. “Ap’ οὖν, ὦ ᾽γαθέ, ἀγροικότερον 
τοῦ δέοντος λελοιδορήκαμεν τὴν τῶν λόγων 
τέχνην; ἡ δ᾽ ἴσως ἂν εἴποι" τί ποτ᾽, ὦ θαυμάσιοι, 
ληρεῖτε; ἐγὼ γὰρ οὐδέν᾽ ἀγνοοῦντα τἀληθὲς 
ἀναγκάζω μανθάνειν λέγειν, ἀλλ᾽, εἴ τις ἐμὴ 
EvpBovry,! κτησάμενος ἐκεῖνο οὕτως ἐμὲ λαμβάνει" 
τόδε δ᾽ οὖν μέγα λέγω, ὡς ἄνευ ἐμοῦ τῷ τὰ ὄντα 
εἰδότι οὐδέν τι μᾶλλον ἔσται πείθειν τέχνη. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Οὐκοῦν δίκαια ἐρεῖ, λέγουσα ταῦτα; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Φημί, ἐὰν οἱ γε ἐπιόντες αὐτῇ λόγοι 
μαρτυρῶσιν εἶναι τέχνῃ. ὥσπερ γὰρ ἀκούειν 
δοκῶ τινῶν προσιόντων καὶ διαμαρτυρομένων 
λόγων, ὅτι ψεύδεται καὶ οὐκ ἔστι τέχνη ἀλλ᾽ 
ἄτεχνος τριβή; τοῦ δὲ λέγειν, φησὶν ὁ Λάκων, 
ἔτυμος τέχνη ἄνευ τοῦ ἀληθείας ἧἦφθαι οὔτ᾽ ἔστιν 
οὔτε μή ποτε ὕστερον γένηται. ᾿ 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τούτων δεῖ τῶν λόγων, ὦ Σώκρατες" 
ἀλλὰ δεῦρο αὐτοὺς παράγων ἐξέταζε, τί καὶ πῶς 
λέγουσι. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ΠΙάριτε δή, θρέμματα γενναῖα, καλλί- 
παιδά τε Φαῖδρον πείθετε, ὡς ἐὰν μὴ ἱκανῶς 
φιλοσοφήσῃ, οὐδὲ ἱκανός ποτε λέγειν ἔσται περὶ 
οὐδενός. ἀποκρινέσθω δὴ ὁ Φαῖδρος. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. ᾿Ἐρωτᾶτε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. “Ap οὖν οὐ τὸ μὲν ὅλον ἡ ῥητορικὴ 


1 εἴ τις ἐμῇ ξυμβουλῇ χρῆται Schanz, following Stephanus. 
εἴ τι ἐμὴ ξυμβουλή Β. εἴ τις ἐμῇ ξυμβουλῇ T. 
2 Schanz brackets τοῦ. . . γένηται. 


516 


PHAEDRUS 


to do evil instead of good, what harvest do you 
suppose his oratory will reap thereafter from the seed 
he has sown? 

pPHAEDRUS. No very good harvest. 

socRaTEs. Well,do you think we have reproached 
the art of speaking too harshly? Perhaps she might 
say: “ Why do you talk such nonsense, you strange 
men? I do not compel anyone to learn to speak 
without knowing the truth, but if my advice is of 
any value, he learns that first and then acquires me. 
So what I claim is this, that without my help the 
knowledge of the truth does not give the art of 
persuasion.”’ 

PHAEDRUS. And will she be right in saying this? 

socraTes. Yes, if the arguments that are coming 
against her testify that she is an art. For I seem, 
as it were, to hear some arguments approaching and 
protesting that she is lying and is not an art, but a 
craft devoid of art. A real art of speaking, says the 
Laconian, which does not seize hold of truth, does not 
exist and never will. 

pHAEDRUS. We have need of these arguments, 
Socrates. Bring them here and examine their words 
and their meaning. 

socraTes. Come here, then, noble creatures, and 
persuade the fair young Phaedrus that unless he pay 
proper attention to philosophy he will never be able 
to speak properly about anything. And let Phaedrus 
answer. 

PHAEDRUs. Ask your questions. 

socraTEs. Is not rhetoric in its entire nature an 


517 


PLATO 


ἂν εἴη τέχνη ψυχαγωγία τις διὰ λόγων, οὐ μόνον 
ἐν δικαστηρίοις καὶ ὅσοι ἄλλοι δημόσιοι σύλλογοι, 
ἀλλὰ καὶ ἐν ἰδίοις, ἡ αὐτὴ σμικρῶν τε καὶ μεγάλων 
πέρι, καὶ οὐδὲν ἐντιμότερον 70 γε ὀρθὸν περὶ 
σπουδαῖα ἢ περὶ φαῦλα γιγνόμενον; ἢ πῶς σὺ 
ταῦτ᾽ ἀκήκοας; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Οὐ μὰ τὸν Δία οὐ παντάπασιν οὕτως, 
ἀλλὰ μάλιστα μέν πως περὶ τὰς δίκας λέγεταί τε 
καὶ γράφεται τέχνῃ, λέγεται δὲ καὶ περὶ δημη- 
γορίας" ἐπὶ πλέον δὲ οὐκ ἀκήκοα. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ᾿Αλλ᾽ 7 τὰς Νέστορος καὶ ᾽Οδυσσέως 
τέχνας μόνον περὶ τος ἀκήκοας, ἃς ἐν Ἰλίῳ 
σχολάξζοντες συνεγραψάτην, τῶν δὲ Παλαμήδους 
ἀνήκοος γέγονας; 

ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ. Καὶ ναὶ μὰ Δία ἔγωγε τῶν Νέστορος, 
εἰ μὴ Γοργίαν Νέστορά τίνα κατασκευάζξεις, ἤ 
τίνα Θρασύμαχόν τε καὶ Θεόδωρον ᾽Οδυσσέα. 

44. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἴσως. ἀλλὰ γὰρ τούτους ἐῶμεν" 
σὺ δ᾽ εἰπέ, ἐν δικαστηρίοις οἱ ἀντίδικοι τί δρῶσιν; 
οὐκ ἀντιλέγουσιν μέντοι, ἢ τί φήσομεν; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τοῦτ᾽ αὐτό. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Περὶ τοῦ δικαίου τε καὶ ἀδίκου; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Ναί, 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν ὁ τέχνῃ τοῦτο δρῶν ποιήσει 
aes TO αὐτὸ τοῖς αὐτοῖς τοτὲ μὲν δίκαιον, ὅταν 

é βούληται, ἄδικον; 

ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ. Τί μήν; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Καὶ ἐ ἐν δημηγορίᾳ δὴ τῇ πόλει δοκεῖν 
τὰ αὐτὰ τοτὲ μὲν ἀγαθά, τοτὲ δ᾽ αὖ τἀναντία; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Οὕτως. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τὸν οὖν ᾿Ελεατικὸν Παλαμήδην 


5158 


PHAEDRUS 


art which leads the soul by means of words, not only 
in law courts and the various other public assemblages, 
but in private companies as well? And is it not the 
same when concerned with small things as with great, 
and, properly speaking, no more to be esteemed in 
important than in trifling matters? Is this what you 
have heard? 

pHAEDRUs. No, by Zeus, not that exactly ; but the 
art of speaking and writing is exercised chiefly in law- 
suits, and that of speaking also in public assemblies ; 
and I never heard of any further uses. 

socraTES. Then you have heard only of the 
treatises on rhetoric by Nestor and Odysseus, which 
they wrote when they had nothing to do at Troy, 
and you have not heard of that by Palamedes? 

PHAEDRUs. Nor of Nestor’s either, unless you are 
disguising Gorgias under the name of Nestor and 
Thrasymachus or Theodorus under that of Odysseus. 

socRATES. Perhaps I am. However, never mind 
them; but tell me, what do the parties in a lawsuit do 
in court? Do they not contend in speech, or what 
shall we say they do? 

PHAEDRUs. Exactly that. 

socraTes. About the just and the unjust? 

PHAEDRUs. Yes. 

socraTEs. Then he whose speaking is an art will 
make the same thing appear to the same persons at 
one time just and at another, if he wishes, unjust? 

PHAEDRUs. Certainly. 

socraTEs. And in political speaking he will make 
the same things seem to the State at one time good 
ind at another the opposite ? 

PHAEDRUS. Just so. 

socrRaTEs. Do we not know that the Eleatic 


519 


202 


PLATO 


λέγοντα οὐκ ἴσμεν τέχνῃ, ὥστε φαίνεσθαι τοῖς 
ἀκούουσι τὰ αὐτὰ ὅμοια καὶ ἀνόμοια, καὶ ἕν καὶ 
/ / 2 \ , 
πολλά, μένοντά TE αὖ καὶ φερομενα; 
ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Μάλα γε. 
> ΝΜ \ 4 4 , 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκ ἄρα μόνον περὶ δικαστήριά τέ 
> Cay. \ \ \ tp 3) > « 
ἐστιν ἡ ἀντιλογικὴ καὶ περὶ δημηγορίαν, ἀλλ᾽, ὡς 
ἔοικε, περὶ πάντα τὰ λεγόμενα μία τις τέχνη, 
εἴπερ ἔστιν, αὕτη ἂν εἴη, ἡ τις οἷός T ἔσται πᾶν 
παντὶ ὁμοιοῦν τῶν δυνατῶν καὶ οἷς δυνατόν, καὶ 
ἄλλου ὁμοιοῦντος καὶ ἀποκρυπτομένου εἰς φῶς 
ἄγειν. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Πῶς δὴ τὸ τοιοῦτον λέγεις; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τῇδε δοκῶ ζητοῦσιν φανεῖσθαι. ἀπά- 

΄ > \ / / A 
τη πότερον ἐν πολὺ διαφέρουσι γίγνεται μᾶλλον 
ἢ ὀλίγον; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Ἔν τοῖς ὀλίγον. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Αλλά γε δὴ κατὰ σμικρὸν μετα- 
βαίνων μᾶλλον λήσεις ἐλθὼν ἐπὶ τὸ ἐναντίον ἢ 
κατὰ μέγα. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Πῶς δ᾽ οὔ; 

An wv Ν ᾽ 4, 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Δεῖ ἄρα τὸν μέλλοντα ἀπατήσειν 

Ν 
μὲν ἄλλον, αὐτὸν δὲ μὴ ἀπατήσεσθαι, τὴν 
ὁμοιότητα τῶν ὄντων καὶ ἀνομοιότητα ἀκριβῶς 
διειδέναι. 
9 , \ 42 
ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. ἀνάγκη [ev οὗν. 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἦ οὖν οἷός τε ἔσται, ἀλήθειαν ἀγνοῶν 
“ « 

ἑκάστου, τὴν τοῦ ἀγνοουμένου ὁμοιότητα σμικράν 
τε καὶ μεγάλην ἐν τοῖς ἄλλοις διαγιγνώσκειν; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. ᾿Αδύνατον. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν τοῖς παρὰ τὰ ὄντα δοξάζουσιν 


520 


PHAEDRUS 


Palamedes (Zeno) has such an art of speaking that 
the same things appear to his hearers to be alike and 
unlike, one and many, stationary and in motion? 

PHAEDRus. Certainly. 

socraTEes. Then the art of contention in speech is 
not confined to courts and political gatherings, but 
apparently, if it is an art at all, it would be one and 
the same in all kinds of speaking, the art by which a 
man will be able to produce a resemblance between 
all things between which it can be produced, and to 
bring to the light the resemblances produced and 
disguised by anyone else. 

PHAEDRUS. What do you mean by that? 

socraTes. I think it will be plain if we examine 
the matter in this way. Is deception easier when 
there is much difference between things or when 
there is little ? 

PHAEDRUs. When there is little. 

socraTes. And if you make a transition by small 
steps from anything to its opposite you will be more 
likely to escape detection than if you proceed by 
leaps and bounds. 

PHAEDRUs. Of course. 

socraTEs. Then he who is to deceive another, and 
is not to be deceived himself, must know accurately 
the similarity and dissimilarity of things. 

PHAEDRUS. Yes, he must. 

socraTEs. Now will he be able, not knowing the 
truth about a given thing, to recognise in other 
things the great or small degree of likeness to that 
which he does not know? 

PHAEDRuS. It is impossible. 

socraTEes. In .the case, then, of those whose 
opinions are at variance with facts and who are 


521 


PLATO 


καὶ ἀπατωμένοις δῆλον ὡς TO πάθος τοῦτο Sv 
ὁμοιοτήτων τινῶν εἰσερρύη. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. [ἔγνεται γοῦν οὕτως. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἔστιν οὖν ὅπως τεχνικὸς ἔσται μετα- 
βιβάζειν κατὰ σμικρὸν διὰ τῶν ὁμοιοτήτων ἀπὸ 
τοῦ ὄντος ἑκάστοτε ἐπὶ τοὐναντίον ἀπάγων, ἢ 
αὐτὸς τοῦτο διαφεύγειν, ὁ μὴ ἐγνωρικὼς ὃ ἔστιν 
ἕκαστον τῶν ὄντων; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Οὐ μή ποτε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Aoywy ἄρα τέχνην, ὦ ἑταῖρε, ὁ τὴν 
ἀλήθειαν μὴ εἰδώς, δόξας δὲ τεθηρευκώς, γελοίαν 
τινά, ὡς ἔοικε, καὶ ἄτεχνον παρέξεται. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Κινδυνεύει. 

45, ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Βούλει οὖν ἐν τῷ Λυσίου λόγῳ, 
ὃν φέρεις, καὶ ἐν οἷς ἡμεῖς εἴπομεν ἰδεῖν τι ὧν 
φαμὲν ἀτέχνων τε καὶ ἐντέχνων εἶναι; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Πάντων γέ που μάλιστα, ὡς νῦν γε 
ψιλῶς πως λέγομεν, οὐκ ἔχοντες ἱκανὰ παρα- 
δείγματα. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Καὶ μὴν κατὰ τύχην γέ τινα, ὡς 
ἔοικεν, ἐρρηθήτην τὼ λόγω ἔχοντέ τι παράδειγμα, 
ὡς ἂν ὁ εἰδὼς τὸ ἀληθὲς προσπαίξων ἐν λόγοις 
παράγοι τοὺς ἀκούοντας. καὶ ἔγωγε, ὦ Φαῖδρε, 
αἰτιῶμαι τοὺς ἐντοπίους θεούς" ἴσως δὲ καὶ οἱ τῶν 
Μουσῶν προφῆται οἱ ὑπὲρ κεφαλῆς ᾧδοὶ ἐπυπε- 
πνευκότες ἂν ἡμῖν εἶεν τοῦτο τὸ γέρας" οὐ γάρ που 
ἔγωγε τέχνης τινὸς τοῦ λέγειν μέτοχος. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. “"Eotw ὡς λέγεις: μόνον δήλωσον 
eae 
- φῇς. » Ve 3 fd \ n Ῥ 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. 1θὲ δή μοι ἀνάγνωθι τὴν τοῦ Λυσίου 
λόγου ἀρχήν. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Περὶ μὲν τῶν ἐμῶν πραγμάτων ἐπί- 
522 


PHAEDRUS 


deceived, this error evidently slips in through some 
resemblances. 

PHAEDRUS. It does happen in that way. 

socraTes. Then he who does not understand the 
real nature of things will not possess the art of 
making his hearers pass from one thing to its opposite 
by leading them through the intervening resem- 
blances, or of avoiding such deception himself? 

pHAEDRUS. Never in the world. 

socraTes. Then, my friend, he who knows not 
the truth, but pursues opinions, will, it seems, attain 
an art of speech which is ridiculous, and not an art 
at all. 

PHAEDRUs. Probably. 

socraTEs. Shall we look in the speech of Lysias, 
which you have with you, and in what I said, for 
something which we think shows art and the lack 
of art? 

PHAEDRUS. By all means, for now our talk is too 
abstract, since we lack sufficient examples. 

socraTes. And bysome special good fortune, as it 
seems, the two discourses contain an example of the 
way in which one who knows the truth may lead his 
hearers on with sportive words; and I, Phaedrus, 
think the divinities of the place are the cause thereof ; 
and perhaps, too, the prophets of the Muses, who are 
singing above our heads, may have granted this boon 
to us by inspiration; at any rate, I possess no art of 
speaking. 

PHAEDRUS. So be it; only make your meaning 
clear. 

socRATES. Read me the beginning of Lysias’ 
discourse. 

PHAEDRUS, You know what my condition is, and 


523 


263 


PLATO 


στασαι, καὶ ws νομίζω συμφέρειν ἡμῖν τούτων 
γενομένων, ἀκήκοας. ἀξιῶ δὲ μὴ διὰ τοῦτο 
ἀτυχῆσαι ὧν δέομαι, ὅτι οὐκ ἐραστὴς ὧν σοῦ 
τυγχάνω. ὡς ἐκείνοις μὲν τότε μεταμέλει--- 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Παῦσαι. τί δὴ οὖν οὗτος ἁμαρτάνει 
καὶ ἄτεχνον ποιεῖ, λεκτέον. ἦ γάρ; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Ναί. 

46. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Αρ᾽ οὖν οὐ παντὶ δῆλον τό γε 
τοιόνδε, ὡς περὶ μὲν ἔνια τῶν τοιούτων ὁμονοητι- 
κῶς ἔχομεν, περὶ δ᾽ ἔνια στασιωτικῶς; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Δοκῶ μὲν ὃ λέγεις μανθάνειν, ἔτει δ᾽ 
εἰπὲ σαφέστερον. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ὅταν tis ὄνομα εἴπῃ σιδήρου ἢ 
ἀργύρου, ἄρ᾽ οὐ τὸ αὐτὸ πάντες διενοήθημεν; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Καὶ μάλα. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί δ᾽ ὅταν δικαίου ἢ ἀγαθοῦ; οὐκ 
ἄλλος ἄλλῃ φέρεται, καὶ ἀμφισβητοῦμεν ἀλλήλοις 
τε καὶ ἡμῖν αὐτοῖς; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Πάνυ μὲν οὖν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἔν μὲν ἄρα τοῖς συμφωνοῦμεν, ἐν 
δὲ τοῖς οὔ. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Οὕτω. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ποτέρωθι οὖν εὐαπατητότεροί ἐσμεν, 
καὶ ἡ ῥητορικὴ ἐν ποτέροις μεῖζον δύναται; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Δῆλον ὅτι ἐν οἷς πλανώμεθα. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν τὸν μέλλοντα τέχνην ῥητο- 
ρικὴν μετιέναι πρῶτον μὲν δεῖ ταῦτα οδῷ διῃρῆ- 
σθαι, καὶ εἰληφέναι τινὰ χαρακτῆρα ἑκατέρου 
τοῦ εἴδους, ἐν ᾧ τε ἀνάγκη τὸ πλῆθος πλανᾶσθαι 
καὶ ἐν ᾧ μή. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Καλὸν γοῦν ἄν, ὦ Σώκρατες, εἶδος 
εἴη κατανενοηκὼς ὁ τοῦτο λαβών. 


524 


_PHAEDRUS 


you have heard how I think it is to our advantage to 
arrange these matters. And I claim that I ought 
not ta be refused what I ask because I am not your 
lover. For lovers repent of— 

socraTes. Stop. Now we must tell what there is 
in this that is faulty and lacks art, must we not? 

PHAEDRuS. Yes. 

socraTEs. It is clear to everyone that we are in 
accord about some matters of this kind and at variance 
about others, is it not? 

PHAEDRUS. I think I understand your meaning, 
but express it still more clearly. 

socraTEes. When one says “iron” or “silver,” we 
all understand the same thing, do we not? 

PHAEDRuS. Surely. 

socraTes. What if he says “justice” or “ good- 
ness”? Do we not part company, and disagree with 
each other and with ourselves? 

PHAEDRuS. Certainly. 

socraTEs. Then in some things we agree and in 
others we do not. 

PHAEDRUS. ‘True. 

socraTEs. Then in which of the two are we more 
easy to deceive, and in which has rhetoric the greater 
power? 

PHAEDRUS. Evidently in the class of doubtful 
things. 

socrATES. Then he who is to develop an art of 
rhetoric must first make a methodical division and 
acquire a clear impression of each class, that in which 
people must be in doubt and that in which they 
are not. 

PHAEDRUS. He who has acquired that would have 
conceived an excellent principle. 


525 


θ4 


PLATO 


ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἑπειτά ye οἶμαι πρὸς ἑκάστῳ γι- 
γνόμενον μὴ λανθάνειν, ἀλλ᾽ ὀξέως αἰσθάνεσθαι, 
περὶ οὗ ἂν μέλλῃ ἐρεῖν, ποτέρου ὃν τυγχάνει τοῦ 
γένους. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τί μήν; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί οὖν; τὸν Ἔρωτα πότερον φῶμεν 


εἶναι τῶν ἀμφισβητησίμων ἢ τῶν μή; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τῶν ἀμφισβητησίμων δή mov: ἢ οἴει 
ἄν σοι συγχωρῆσαι εἰπεῖν ἃ νῦν δὴ εἶπες περὶ 
αὐτοῦ, ὡς βλάβη τέ ἐστι τῷ ἐρωμένῳ καὶ ἐρῶντι, 
καὶ αὖθις ὡς μέγιστον τῶν ἀγαθῶν τυγχάνει; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ἼἌριστα λέγεις" ἀλλ᾽ εἰπὲ καὶ τόδε 
--ἐγὼ γάρ τοι διὰ τὸ ἐνθουσιαστικὸν οὐ πάνυ 
μέμνημαι---εἰ ὡρισάμην ἔρωτα ἀρχόμενος τοῦ 
λόγου. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Νὴ Δία ἀμηχάνως γε ὡς σφόδρα. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Φεῦ, ὅ ὅσῳ λέγεις τεχνικωτέρας Νύμ- 
φας τὰς ᾿Αχελῴου καὶ ἸΤᾶνα τὸν Ἑρμοῦ Λυσίου 
τοῦ Κεφάλου πρὸς λόγους εἶναι. ἢ οὐδὲν λέγω, 
ἀλλὰ καὶ ὁ Λυσίας ἀρχόμενος τοῦ ἐρωτικοῦ 
ἠνάγκασεν ἡμᾶς ὑπολαβεῖν τὸν Ἔρωτα ἕν τι τῶν 
ὄντων, ὃ αὐτὸς ἐβουλήθη, καὶ πρὸς τοῦτο ἤδη 
συνταξάμενος πάντα τὸν ὕστερον λόγον διεπερά- 
νατο; βούλει πάλιν ἀναγνῶμεν. τὴν ἀρχὴν αὐτοῦ; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Εἰ σοί γε δοκεῖ: ὃ μέντοι ζητεῖς, οὐκ 
ἔστ᾽ αὐτόθι. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. λΔέγε, ἵνα ἀκούσω αὐτοῦ ἐκείνου. 

41. ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Περὶ μὲν τῶν ἐμῶν πραγμάτων 
ἐπίστασαι, καὶ ὡς νομίζω συμφέρειν ἡμῖν τούτων 
γενομένων, ἀκήκοας. ἀξιῶ δὲ μὴ διὰ τοῦτο 
ἀτυχῆσαι ὧν δέομαι, ὅτι οὐκ ἐραστὴς ὧν σοῦ 


526 


_ PHAEDRUS 


socraTes. Then I think when he has to do with a 
particular case, he will not be ignorant, but will 
know clearly to which of the two classes the thing 
belongs about which he is to speak. 

PHAEDRUs. Of course. 

socraTEs. Well then, to which does Love belong? 
To the doubtful things or the others? 

PHAEDRUS. To the doubtful, surely ; if he did not, 
do you think he would have let you say what you 
said just now about him, that he is an injury to the 
beloved and to the lover, and again that he is the 
greatest of blessings ? 

socraTEes. Excellent. But tell me this—for I was 
in such an ecstasy that I have quite forgotten— 
whether I defined love in the beginning of my dis- 
course. 

PHAEDRus. Yes, by Zeus, and wonderfully well. 

socraTEs. Oh, how much more versed the nymphs, 
daughters of Achelous, and Pan, son of Hermes, are 
in the art of speech than Lysias, son of Cephalus! 
Or am I wrong, and did Lysias also, in the beginning 
of his discourse on Love, compel us to suppose Love 
to be some one thing which he chose to consider it, 
and did he then compose and finish his discourse 
with that in view? Shall we read the beginning of 
it again? 

PHAEDRUs. If you like; but what you seek is not 
in it. 

socraTEs. Read, that I may hear Lysias himself. 

PHAEDRUS. You know what my condition is, and 
you have heard how I think it is to our advantage to 
arrange these matters. And I claim that I ought 
not to be refused what I ask because I am not your 


527 


PLATO 


7) e b , \ , lA 2 a 
τυγχάνω. WS ἐκείνοις μὲν TOTE μεταμέλει ὧν ἂν 
εὖ ποιήσωσιν, ἐπειδὰν τῆς ἐπιθυμίας παύσωνται. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἦ πολλοῦ δεῖν ἔοικε ποιεῖν ὅδε γε 
a a a Or 3 δὲ fol > > dew Ὁ \ a 
ὃ ζητοῦμεν, ὃς οὐδὲ ἀπ᾽ ἀρχῆς ἀλλ᾽ ἀπὸ τελευτῆς 
ἐξ ὑπτίας ἀνάπαλιν διανεῖν ἐπιχειρεῖ τὸν λόγον, 
καὶ ἄρχεται ἀφ᾽ ὧν πεπαυμένος ἂν ἤδη ὁ ἐραστὴς 
λέγοι πρὸς τὰ παιδικά. ἢ οὐδὲν εἶπον, Φαῖδρε, 

, vA 
φίλη κεφαλη; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. [στιν γέ τοι δή, ὦ Σώκρατες, τελευτή, 
περὶ οὗ τὸν λόγον ποιεῖται. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί δὲ τἄλλα; οὐ χύδην δοκεῖ βεβλῆ- 
σθαι τὰ τοῦ λόγου; ἢ φαίνεται τὸ δεύτερον εἰρη- 
μένον ἔκ τινος ἀνάγκης δεύτερον δεῖν τεθῆναι, ἤ 

Μ “ e / 2) \ \ \ Μ e 
TL ἄλλο TOV ῥηθέντων; ἐμοὶ μὲν yap ἔδοξεν, ws 
μηδὲν εἰδότι, οὐκ ἀγεννῶς τὸ ἐπιὸν εἰρῆσθαι τῷ 
γράφοντι: σὺ δ᾽ ἔχεις τινὰ ἀνάγκην χογογραφικήν, 
ἡ ταῦτα ἐκεῖνος οὕτως ἐφεξῆς παρ᾽ ἄλληλα 
ἔθηκεν; 
Ν > ef e a e¢ Ἁ 9 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Xpnatos εἶ, OTL με ἡγεῖ ἱκανὸν ELVAL 
τὰ ἐκείνου οὕτως ἀκριβῶς διιδεῖν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ᾿Αλλὰ τόδε γε οἶμαί σε φάναι ἄν, 
δεῖν πάντα λόγον ὥσπερ ζῴον συνεστάναι σῶμά TL 
ἔχοντα αὐτὸν αὑτοῦ, ὥστε μήτε ἀκέφαλον εἶναι 
μήτε ἄπουν, ἀλλὰ μέσα TE ἔχειν καὶ ἄκρα, 
πρέποντ᾽ ἀλλήλοις καὶ τῷ ὅλῳ γεγραμμένα. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Πῶς γὰρ οὔ; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. “Σκέψαι τοίνυν τὸν τοῦ ἑταίρου σου 
λόγον, εἴτε οὕτως εἴτε ἄλλως ἔχει" καὶ εὑρήσεις 
τοῦ ἐπιγράμματος οὐδὲν διαφέροντα, ὃ Μίδᾳ τῷ 
Φρυγί φασί τινες ἐπιγεγράφθαι. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. ΙΠοῖον τοῦτο, καὶ τί πεπονθός; 


528 


RHAEDRUS 


lover. For lovers repent of the kindnesses they 
have done when their passion ceases. 

socrATES. He certainly does not at all seem to do 
what we demand, for he does not even begin at the 
beginning, but undertakes to swim on his back up 
the current of his discourse from its end, and begins 
with what the lover would say at the end to his 
beloved. Am I not right, Phaedrus my dear? 

PHAEDRUs. Certainly that of which he speaks is 
an ending. 

socraTes. And how about the rest? Don’t you 
think the parts of the discourse are thrown out 
helter-skelter? Or does it seem to you that the 
second topic had to be put second for any cogent 
reason, or that any of the other things he says are so 
placed? It seemed to me, who am wholly ignorant, 
that the writer uttered boldly whatever occurred to 
him. Do you know any rhetorical reason why he 
arranged his topics in this order? 

PHAEDRUs. You flatter me in thinking that I can 
discern his motives so accurately. 

socraTEs. But I do think you will agree to this, 
that every discourse must be organised, like a living 
being, with a body of its own, as it were, so as not 
to be headless or footless, but to have a middle and 
members, composed in fitting relation to each other 
and to the whole. 

PHAEDRUS. Certainly. 

socRATES. See then whether this is the case with 
your friend’s discourse, or not. You will find that it 
is very like the inscription that some say is inscribed 
on the tomb of Midas the Phrygian. 

pHAEDRUS. What sort of inscription is that, and 
what is the matter with it? 


529 


PLATO 


ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. “Kote μὲν τοῦτο τόδε" 


χαλκῆ παρθένος εἰμί, Μίδα δ᾽ ἐπὶ σήματι 


κεῖμαι. 
»“ ᾽ A ο΄ / \ / \ 
ὄφρ᾽ av ὕδωρ τε van καὶ δένδρεα μακρὰ 
τεθήλῃ, 
> ral rn J, , ᾽ \ 
αὐτοῦ τῇδε μένουσα πολυκλαύτου ἐπὶ 
τύμβου, 


ἀγγελέω παριοῦσι Μίδας ὅτι τῇδε τέθαπται. 


© n ~ / 
E ὅτι δὲ οὐδὲν διαφέρει αὐτοῦ πρῶτον ἢ ὕστατόν τι 


2θῦ 


λέγεσθαι, ἐννοεῖς που, ὡς ἐγῴμαι. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Σκώπτεις τὸν λόγον ἡμῶν, ὦ Σώ- 
κρατες. 

48. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τοῦτον μὲν τοίνυν, ἵνα μὴ σὺ 
ἄχθῃ, ἐάσωμεν' καί τοι συχνά γε ἔχειν μοι δοκεῖ 
παραδείγματα, πρὸς ἅ τις βλέπων ὀνίναιτ᾽ ἄν, 
μιμεῖσθαι αὐτὰ ἐπιχειρῶν μὴ πάνυ τι" εἰς δὲ τοὺς 
ἑτέρους λόγους ἴωμεν. ἦν γάρ τι ἐν αὐτοῖς, ὡς 
δοκῶ, προσῆκον ἰδεῖν τοῖς βουλομένοις περὶ λόγων 
σκοπεῖν. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τὸ ποῖον δὴ λέγεις; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. "Evaytiw που ἤστην: ὁ μὲν γάρ, 
ὡς τῷ ἐρῶντι, ὁ δ᾽ ὡς τῷ μὴ δεῖ χαρίζεσθαι, 
ἐλεγέτην. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Καὶ μάλ᾽ ἀνδρικῶς. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. “Oipny σε τἀληθὲς ἐρεῖν, ὅτι μανι- 
κῶς" ὃ μέντοι ἐζήτουν, ἐστὶν αὐτὸ τοῦτο. μανίαν 
γάρ τινα ἐφήσαμεν εἶναι τὸν ἔρωτα, ἦ γάρ; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Nai. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Μανίας δέ γε εἴδη δύο, τὴν μὲν ὑπὸ 
νοσημάτων ἀνθρωπίνων, τὴν δὲ ὑπὸ θείας ἐξαλ- 
λαγῆς τῶν εἰωθότων νομίμων γιγνομένην. 


539 


RHAEDRUS 


SOCRATES. This is it: 


A bronze maiden am I; and I am placed upon 
the tomb of Midas. 

So long as water runs and tall trees put forth 
leaves, 

Remaining in this very spot upon a much 
lamented tomb, 

I shall declare to passers by that Midas is 
buried here; 


and you perceive, I fancy, that it makes no difference 
whether any line of it is put first or last. 

PHAEDRUS. You are making fun of our discourse, 
Socrates, 

socraTes. Then, to spare your feelings, let us say 
no more of this discourse—and yet 1 think there 
were many things in it which would θὲ useful 
examples to consider, though not exactly to imitate— 
and let us turn to the other discourses; for there 
was in them, I think, something which those who 
wish to investigate rhetoric might well examine. 

PHAEDRuS. What do you mean? 

socraTes. The two discourses were opposites ; for 
one maintained that the lover, and the other that the 
non-lover, should be favoured. 

PHAEDRus. And they did it right manfully. 

socraTes. I thought you were going to speak the 
truth and say “madly”; however, that is just what 
I had in mind. We said that love was a kind of 
madness, did we not? 

PHAEDRUS. Yes. 

socraTes. And that there are two kinds of mad- 
ness, one arising from human diseases, and the other 
from a divine release from the customary habits. 


5. 


Β 


PLATO 


ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Πάνυ ye. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τῆς δὲ θείας τεττάρων θεῶν ' τέτ- 
ταρα μέρη διελόμενοι, μαντικὴν μὲν ἐπίπνοιαν 
᾿Απόλλωνος θέντες, Διονύσου δὲ τελεστικήν, 
Μουσῶν δ᾽ αὖ ποιητικήν, τετάρτην δὲ ᾿Αφροδίτης 
καὶ "Ἔρωτος ἐρωτικὴν μανίαν ἐφήσαμέν τε ἀρίστην 
εἶναι, καὶ οὐκ οἶδ᾽ ὅπη τὸ ἐρωτικὸν πάθος ἀπεικά- 
ζοντες, ἴσως μὲν ἀληθοῦς τινὸς ἐφαπτόμενοι, τάχα 
δ᾽ ἂν καὶ ἄλλοσε παραφερόμενοι, κεράσαντες οὐ 
παντάπασιν ἀπίθανον λόγον, μυθικόν τινα ὕμνον 
προσεπαίσαμεν μετρίως τε καὶ εὐφήμως τὸν ἐμόν 
τε καὶ σὸν δεσπότην "Ἔρωτα, ὦ Φαῖδρε, καλῶν 
παίδων ἔφορον. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Καὶ μάλα ἔμοιγε οὐκ ἀηδῶς ἀκοῦσαι. 

49. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τόδε τοίνυν αὐτόθεν λάβωμεν, 
ὡς ἀπὸ τοῦ ψέγειν πρὸς τὸ ἐπαινεῖν ἔσχεν ὁ 
λόγος μεταβῆναι. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Πῶς δὴ οὖν αὐτὸ λέγεις; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἐμοὶ μὲν φαίνεται τὰ μὲν ἄλλα τῷ 
ὄντι παιδιᾷ πεπαῖσθαι" τούτων δέ τινων ἐκ τύχης 

ῥηθέντων δυοῖν εἰδοῖν, εἰ αὐτοῖν τὴν δύναμιν τέχνῃ 
NaBely δύναιτό τις, οὐκ ἄχαρι. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τίνων δή; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Eis μίαν τε ἰδέαν συνορῶντα ἄγειν 
τὰ πολλαχῇ διεσπαρμένα, Ἷ iv ἕκαστον ὁριζόμενος 
δῆλον ποιῇ, περὶ οὗ ἂν ἀεὶ διδάσκειν ἐθέλῃ, ὥ ὥσπερ 
τὸ νυνδὴ περὶ Ἔρωτος ὃ ἔστιν ὁρισθέν, εἴτ᾽ εὖ 
εἴτε κακῶς ἐλέχθη. τὸ γοῦν σαφὲς καὶ τὸ αὐτὸ 
αὑτῷ ὁμολογούμενον διὰ ταῦτ᾽ ἔσχεν εἰπεῖν ὁ 
λόγος. 


1 Schanz brackets τεττάρων θεῶν. 


532 


PHAEDRUS 


PHAEDRUS. Certainly. 

socraTEs. And we made four divisions of the 
divine madness, ascribing them to four gods, saying 
that prophecy was inspired by Apollo, the mystic 
madness by Dionysus, the poetic by the Muses, and 
the madness of love, inspired by Aphrodite and Eros, 
we said was the best. We described the passion of 
love in some sort of figurative manner, expressing 
some truth, perhaps, and perhaps being led away 
in another direction, and after composing a somewhat 
plausible discourse, we chanted a sportive and mythic 
hymn in meet and pious strain to the honour of your 
lord and mine, Phaedrus, Love, the guardian of 
beautiful boys. 

PHAEDRUS. Yes, and I found it very pleasant to 
hear. 

socraTEs. Here let us take up this point and see 
how the discourse succeeded in passing from blame 
to praise. 

PHAEDRUS. What do you mean? 

socRATEs. It seems to me that the discourse was, 
as a whole, really sportive jest ; but in these chance 
utterances were involved two principles, the essence 
of which it would be gratifying to learn, if art could 
teach it. 

PHAEDRUS. What principles? 

socraTes. That of perceiving and bringing to- 
gether in one idea the scattered particulars, that one 
may make clear by definition the particular thing 
which he wishes to explain ; just as now, in speaking 
of Love, we said what he is and defined it, whether 
well or ill. Certainly by this means the discourse 
acquired clearness and consistency. 


533 


200 


PLATO 


ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. To δ᾽ ἕτερον δὴ εἶδος τί λέγεις, ὦ 
Σώκρατες; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τὸ πάλιν κατ᾽ εἴδη δύνασθαι τέμνειν, 
κατ᾽ ἄρθρα, ἧ πέφυκε, καὶ μὴ ἐπιχειρεῖν κατα- 
γνύναι μέρος μηδέν, κακοῦ μαγείρου τρόπῳ 
χρώμενον ἀλλ᾽ ὥσπερ ἄρτι τὼ λόγω τὸ μὲν 
ἄφρον τῆς διανοίας ἕν τι κοινῇ εἶδος ἐλαβέτην, 
ὥσπερ δὲ σώματος ἐξ ἑνὸς διπλᾶ καὶ ὁμώνυμα 
πέφυκε, σκαιά, τὰ δὲ δεξιὰ κληθέντα, οὕτω καὶ τὸ 
τῆς παρανοίας ὡς ἕν ἐν ἡμῖν πεφυκὸς εἶδος 

ἡγησαμένω τὼ λόγω, ὁ μὲν τὸ ἐπ᾽ ἀριστερὰ τεμνό- 

μενος “μέρος, πάλιν τοῦτο τέμνων οὐκ ἐπανῆκεν, 
πρὶν ἐν αὐτοῖς ἐφευρὼν ὀνομαζόμενον. σκαιόν τινα 
ἔρωτα ἐλοιδόρησε μάλ᾽ ἐν δίκῃ, ὃ δ εἰς τὰ ἐν 
δεξιᾷ τῆς μανίας ἀγαγὼν ἡμᾶς, ὁμώνυμον μὲν 
ἐκείνῳ, θεῖον δ᾽ αὖ τιν᾽ ἔρωτα ἐφευρὼν καὶ 
προτεινάμενος ἐπήνεσεν ὡς μεγίστων αἴτιον ἡμῖν 
ἀγαθῶν. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. ᾿Αληθέστατα λέγεις. 

ὅ0. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τούτων δὴ ἔγωγε αὐτός τε 
ἐραστής, ὦ , Φαῖδρε, τῶν διαιρέσεων καὶ συνα- 
γωγῶν, ἵν᾽ οἷός τε ὦ λέγειν τε καὶ φρονεῖν" ἐάν τέ 
τιν᾽ ἄλλον ἡγήσωμαι δυνατὸν εἰς ἕν καὶ ἐπὶ πολλὰ 
πεφυκόθ' ὁρᾶν, τοῦτον διώκω κατόπισθε μετ᾽ 
ἴχνιον ὥστε θεοῖο. καὶ μέντοι καὶ τοὺς δυναμένους 
αὐτὸ δρᾶν εἰ μὲν ὀρθῶς ἢ ἢ μὴ προσαγορεύω, θεὸς 
οἶδεν, καλῶ δὲ οὖν μέχρι τοῦδε διαλεκτικούς. τὰ δὲ 
νῦν παρὰ σοῦ τε καὶ Λυσίου μαθόντας εἰπὲ τί 
χρὴ καλεῖν" ἢ τοῦτο ἐκεῖνό ἐστιν ἡ λόγων τέχνη, 
ἡ Opactpayos τε καὶ οἱ ἄλλοι χρώμενοι σοφοὶ 


994 


» PHAEDRUS 


PHAEDRUS. And what is the other principle, 
Socrates ὃ 

socraTEes. That of dividing things again by classes, 
where the natural joints are, and not trying to break 
any part, after the manner of a bad carver. As our 
two discourses just now assumed one common 
principle, unreason, and then, just as the body, 
which is one, is naturally divisible into two, right 
and left, with parts called by the same names, so our 
two discourses conceived of madness as naturally 
one principle within us, and one discourse, cutting off 
the left-hand part, continued to divide this until it 
found among its parts a sort of left-handed love, 
which it very justly reviled, but the other discourse, 
leading us to the right-hand part of madness, found 
a love having the same name as the first, but divine, 
which it held up to view and praised as the author of 
our greatest blessings. 

PHAEDRUS. Very true. 

socraTEs. Now I myself, Phaedrus, am a lover of 
these processes of division and bringing together, as 
aids to speech and thought; and if I think any 
other man is able to see things that can naturally be 
collected into one and divided into many, him I 
follow after and “ walk in his footsteps as if he were 
a god.” 1 And whether the name I give to those 
who can do this is right or wrong, God knows, but I 
have called them hitherto dialecticians. But tell 
me now what name to give to those who are taught 
by you and Lysias, or is this that art of speech by 
means of which Thrasymachus and the rest have 


1 Homer, Odyssey v, 193. ὃ δ᾽ ἔπειτα per’ ἴχνια βαῖνε θεοῖο 
(and he walked in the footsteps of the god). 


539 


267 


PLATO 


μὲν αὐτοὶ λέγειν γεγόνασιν, ἄλλους τε ποιοῦσιν, 
οἱ ἂν δωροφορεῖν αὐτοῖς ὡς βασιλεῦσιν ἐθέλωσιν; 

ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ. Βασιλικοὶ μὲν ἄνδρες, οὐ μὲν δὴ 
ἐπιστήμονές γε ὧν ἐρωτᾷς. ἀλλὰ τοῦτο μὲν τὸ 
εἶδος ὀρθῶς ἔμοιγε δοκεῖς καλεῖν, διαλεκτικὸν 
καλῶν: τὸ δὲ ῥητορικὸν δοκεῖ μοι διαφεύγειν ἔθ᾽ 
ἡμᾶς. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Πῶς φής; καλόν πού τι ἂν εἴη, ὃ 
τούτων ἀπολειφθὲν ὅμως τέχνῃ λαμβάνεται; 
πάντως δ᾽ οὐκ ἀτιμαστέον αὐτὸ σοί τε καὶ ἐμοί, 
λεκτέον δὲ τί μέντοι καὶ ἔστι τὸ λειπόμενον τῆς 
ῥητορικῆς. 

ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ. Καὶ μάλα που συχνά, ὦ Σώκρατες, 
τά γ᾽ ἐν τοῖς βιβλίοις τοῖς περὶ λόγων τέχνης 
γεγραμμένοις. 

51. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Καλῶς γε ὑπέμνησας. προοίμιον 
μὲν οἶμαι πρῶτον ὡς δεῖ τοῦ λόγου λέγεσθαι ἐν 
ἀρχῇ" ταῦτα λέγεις---ἦ γάρ; τὰ κομψὰ τῆς τέχνης; 

ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ. Ναί. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Δεύτερον δὲ δὴ διήγησίν τινα μαρ- 
τυρίας τ᾽ ἐπ᾽ αὐτῇ, τρίτον τεκμήρια, τέταρτον 

Ν τὰ 
eixoTa’ καὶ πίστωσιν οἶμαι καὶ ἐπιπίστωσιν 
λέγειν τόν γε βέλτιστον λογοδαίδαλον Βυζάντιον 
ἄνδρα. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τὸν χρηστὸν λέγεις Θεόδωρον; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί μήν; καὶ ἔλεγχόν γε καὶ ἐπεξέ- 
λεγχον ὡς ποιητέον ἐν κατηγορίᾳ τε καὶ ἀπολογίᾳ. 
τὸν δὲ κάλλιστον Πάριον Βὐηνὸν εἰς μέσον οὐκ 
ἄγομεν, ὃς ὑποδήλωσίν τε πρῶτος εὗρε καὶ 
παρεπαίνους; οἱ δ᾽ αὐτὸν καὶ παραψόγους φασὶν 
ἐν μέτρῳ λέγειν μνήμης Xap" σοφὸς γὰρ ἁνήρ. 
Τισίαν δὲ Γοργίαν τε ἐάσομεν εὕδειν, of πρὸ τῶν 


536 


΄ PHAEDRUS 


become able speakers themselves, and make others 
so, if they are willing to pay them royal tribute ? 

PHAEDRUS. They are royal men, but not trained 
in the matters about which you ask. I think you 
give this method the right name when you call it 
dialectic; but it seems to me that rhetoric still 
escapes us. 

socraATes. What do you mean? Can there be 
anything of importance, which is not included in 
these processes and yet comes under the head of 
art? Certainly you and I must not neglect it, 
but must say what it is that remains of rhetoric. 

PHAEDRUS. A great many things remain, Socrates, 
the things that are written in the books on rhetoric. 

socraTes. Thank you for reminding me. You 
mean that there must be an introduction first, at the 
beginning of the discourse ; these are the things you 
mean, are they not ?—the niceties of the art. 

PHAEDRUS. YeS. 

socraTes. And the narrative must come second 
with the testimony after it, and third the proofs, 
and fourth the probabilities; and confirmation and 
further confirmation are mentioned, I believe, by 
the man from Byzantium, that most excellent artist 
in words. 

PHAEDRus. You mean the worthy Theodorus? 

socraTes. Of course. And he tells how refutation 
and further refutation must be accomplished, both 
in accusation and in defence. Shall we not bring the 
illustrious Parian, Evenus, into our discussion, who 
invented covert allusion and indirect praises? And 
some say that he also wrote indirect censures, 
composing them in verse as an aid to memory; for 
he is aclever man. And shall we leave Gorgias and 


537 


PLATO. 


ἀληθῶν τὰ εἰκότα εἶδον ws τιμητέα μᾶλλον, τά τε 
αὖ σμικρὰ μεγάλα καὶ τὰ μεγάλα σμικρὰ φαί- 
νεσθαι ποιοῦσιν διὰ ῥώμην λόγου, καινά τε ἀρχαίως 
τά τ᾽ ἐναντία καινῶς, συντομίαν τε λόγων καὶ 
ἄπειρα μήκη περὶ πάντων ἀνηῦρον; ταῦτα δὲ 
ἀκούων ποτέ μου Πρόδικος ἐγέλασεν, καὶ μόνος 
αὐτὸς ηὑρηκέναι ἔφη ὧν δεῖ Noywv τέχνην" δεῖν δὲ 
οὔτε μακρῶν οὔτε βραχέων, ἀλλὰ μετρίων. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Σοφώτατά γε, ὦ Πρόδικε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἱππίαν δὲ οὐ λέγομεν; οἶμαι γὰρ ἂν 
σύμψηφον αὐτῷ καὶ τὸν ᾿Ηλεῖον ξένον γενέσθαι. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τί δ᾽ οὔ; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τὰ δὲ Πώλου πῶς dpdcwpev! αὖ 
μουσεῖα λόγων, ws? διπλασιολογίαν καὶ γνωμο- 
λογίαν καὶ εἰκονολογίαν, ὀνομάτων τε Λικυμνείων 
ἃ ἐκείνῳ ἐδωρήσατοϑ πρὸς ποίησιν εὐεπείας; * 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Πρωταγόρεια δέ, ὦ Σώκρατες, οὐκ ἦν 
μέντοι τοιαῦτ᾽ ἄττα; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ὀρθοέπειά γέ τις, ὦ παῖ, καὶ ἄλλα 
πολλὰ καὶ καλά. τῶν γε μὴν οἰκτρογόων ἐπὶ 
γῆρας καὶ πενίαν ἑλκομένων λόγων κεκρατηκέναι 
τέχνῃ μοι φαίνεται τὸ τοῦ Χαλκηδονίου σθένος, 
ὀργίσαι τε αὖ πολλοὺς ἅμα δεινὸς ἁνὴρ γέγονεν, 
καὶ πάλιν ὠργισμένοις ἐπάδων κηλεῖν, ὡς ἔφη: 
διαβάλλειν τε καὶ ἀπολύσασθαι διαβολὰς ὁθενδὴ 
κράτιστος. τὸ δὲ δὴ τέλος τῶν λόγων κοινῇ πᾶσιν 
ἔοικεν συνδεδογμένον εἶναι, ᾧ τινὲς μὲν ἐπάνοδον, 
ἄλλοι δὲ ἄλλο τίθενται ὄνομα. 

l πῶς φράσωμεν Β. πῶς φράσομεν T. πῶς οὐ φράσομεν 
Schanz. 2 ὡς B. ὃς T, Schanz. 

3 Schanz, following Ast, brackets ἃ ἐκείνῳ ἐδωρήσατο. 

4 Schanz reads προσεποίησεν εὐέπειαν (προσεποίησεν after 
Cornerius). 


538 


PHAEDRUS 


Tisias undisturbed, who saw that probabilities are 
more to be esteemed than truths, who make small 
things seem great and great things small by the 
power of their words, and new things old and old 
things the reverse, and who invented conciseness of 
speech and measureless length on all subjects? And 
once when Prodicus heard these inventions, he 
laughed, and said that he alone had discovered the 
art of proper speech, that discourses should be 
neither long nor short, but of reasonable length. 

PHAEDRUS. O Prodicus! How clever! 

socrates. And shall we not mention Hippias, our 
friend from Elis? I think he would agree with him. 

PHAEDRUS. Oh yes. 

socraTEes. And what shall we say of Polus and 
his shrines of learned speech, such as duplication and 
sententiousness and figurativeness, and what of the 
names with which Licymnius presented him to effect 
beautiful diction ἢ 

PHAEDRuS. Were there not some similar inventions 
of Protagoras, Socrates? 

SOCRATES. Yes, my boy, correctness of diction, 
and many other fine things. For tearful speeches, 
to arouse pity for old age and poverty, I think the 
precepts of the mighty Chalcedonian hold the palm, 
and he is also a genius, as he said, at rousing large 
companies to wrath, and soothing them again by his 
charms when they are angry, and most powerful in 
devising and abolishing calumnies on any grounds 
whatsoever. But all seem to be in agreement 
concerning the conclusion of discourses, which some 
call recapitulation, while others give it some other 
name. 


529 


E 


68 


PLATO 


ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. To ἐν κεφαλαίῳ ἕκαστα λέγεις ὑπο- 
μνῆσαι ἐπὶ τελευτῆς τοὺς ἀκούοντας περὶ τῶν 
εἰρημένων; 

a 4 \ v i‘ = 5 4 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ταῦτα λέγω, καὶ εἴ TL σὺ ἄλλο ἔχεις 
εἰπεῖν λόγων τέχνης πέρι. 

΄ Ἁ » Μ ‘ 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Σμικρά γε Kal οὐκ ἄξια λέγειν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Εῶμεν δὴ τά γε σμικρά; ταῦτα δὲ 
e 3 3 \ A v s \ ξι 18 ᾿9ἢ Ἂ, 
ὑπ᾽ αὐγὰς μᾶλλον ἴδωμεν, τίνα καὶ πότ᾽ ἔχει τὴν 
τῆς τέχνης δύναμιν. 

\ 4 > / 9 , » 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Καὶ μάλα ἐρρωμένην, ὦ Σώκρατες, ἔν 
γε δὴ πλήθους συνόδοις. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. "Eyes γάρ' ἀλλ᾽, ὦ δαιμόνιε, ἰδὲ καὶ 
σύ, εἰ ἄρα καὶ σοὶ φαίνεται διεστηκὸς αὐτῶν τὸ 
ἠτρίον ὥσπερ ἐμοί. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Δείκνυε μόνον. 

52. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Εὐπὲ δή poe’ εἴ τις προσελθὼν 

aA / 3 / a A a 
τῷ ἑταίρῳ σου ᾿Ερυξιμάχῳ ἢ τῷ πατρὶ αὐτοῦ 

A σ΄ ? \ / rn 
᾿Ακουμενῷ εἴποι ὅτι Ey ἐπίσταμαι τοιαῦτ᾽ ἄττα 
σώμασι προσφέρειν, ὥστε θερμαίνειν τ᾽ ἐὰν 

/ \ ΄ ΝΟ ie | ΕΝ , > a 
βούλωμαι καὶ ψύχειν, καὶ ἐὰν μὲν δόξῃ μοι, ἐμεῖν 
ποιεῖν, ἐὰν δ᾽ αὖ, κάτω διαχωρεῖν, καὶ ἄλλα 
πάμπολλα τοιαῦτα καὶ ἐπιστάμενος αὐτὰ ἀξιῶ 
ἰατρικὸς εἶναι καὶ ἄλλον ποιεῖν, ᾧ ἂν τὴν τούτων 
ἐπιστήμην παραδῶ" τί ἂν οἴει ἀκούσαντας εἰπεῖν; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τί γε ἄλλο ἢ ἐρέσθαι, εἰ προσεπί- 

a e 
σταται καὶ οὕστινας δεῖ Kal ὁπότε ἕκαστα τούτων 
- ς ΄ 
ποιεῖν, καὶ μέχρι ὁπόσου; 
». 4 Ν Ψ > Ay) γὼ 25 >? A 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ei οὖν εἴποι ὅτι οὐδαμῶς" ἀλλ᾽ ἀξιῶ 

ca) A / 
τὸν ταῦτα παρ᾽ ἐμοῦ μαθόντα αὐτὸν οἷόν τ᾽ εἶναι 
ποιεῖν ἃ ἐρωτᾷς; 
540 


΄ 


PHAEDRUS 


PHAEDRUs. You mean making a summary of the 
points of the speech at the end of it, so as to remind 
the hearers of what has been said? 

socraTEs. ‘These are the things I mean, these and 
anything else you can mention concerned with the 
art of rhetoric. 

PHAEDRUs. ‘There are only little things, not worth 
mentioning. 

socraTes. Never mind the little things; let us 
bring these other things more under the light and 
see what force of art they have and when. 

PHAEDRUS. They have a very powerful force, at 
least in large assemblies. 

socraTes. They have; but my friend, see if you 
agree with me in thinking that their warp has gaps 
in it. 

PHAEDRUS. Go on and show them. 

socraTes. Tell me; if anyone should go to your 
friend Eryximachus or to his father Acumenus and 
should say “I know how to apply various drugs to 
people, so as to make them warm or, if I wish, cold, 
and I can make them vomit, if I like, or can make 
their bowels move, and all that sort of thing; and 
because of this knowledge I claim that I am a 
physician and can make any other man a physician, 
to whom I impart the knowledge of these things” ; 
what do you think they would say? 

PHAEDRUS. They would ask him, of course, whether 
he knew also whom he ought to cause to do these 
things, and when, and how much. 

socrates. If then he should say: “ No, not at 
all; but I think that he who has learned these things 
from me will be able to do by himself the things you 
ask about? ”’ 


541 


σ 


09 


PLATO 


PAIAPOS. Εἰἴποιεν ἄν, οἶμαι, ὅτε μαίνεται 
ἅνθρωπος, καὶ ἐκ βιβλίον ποθὲν ἀκούσας ἢ 
\ 
περιτυχὼν φαρμακίοις ἰατρὸς οἴεται γεγονέναι, 
σὐδὲν ἐπαΐων τῆς τέχνης. 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί δ᾽ εἰ Σοφοκλεῖ αὖ προσελθὼν καὶ 
/ a 
Εὐριπίδῃ τις λέγοι, ὡς ἐπίσταται περὶ σμικροῦ 
πράγματος ῥήσεις παμμήκεις ποιεῖν καὶ περὶ 
μεγάλου πάνυ σμικράς, ὅταν τε βούληται οἰκτράς, 
καὶ τοὐναντίον αὖ φοβερὰς καὶ ἀπειλητικάς, ὅσα 
’ ΝΜ ~ \ , b \ , 
T ἄλλα τοιαῦτα, καὶ διδάσκων αὐτὰ τραγῳδίας 
ποίησιν οἴεται παραδιδόναι; 
\ Ag ΓΚ Φ , ? 
ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Kal οὗτοι ἄν, ὦ Σώκρατες, οἶμαι, 
a ” Μ , ¥ τὸ 
καταγελῶεν, εἴ τις οἴεται τραγῳδίαν ἄλλο τι εἶναι 
ἢ τὴν τούτων σύστασιν πρέπουσαν, ἀλλήλοις τε 
\ a ef f 
καὶ τῷ OA τ Το λοι an ils 
> > A . 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Αλλ οὐκ ἂν ἀγροίκως γε, οἶμαι, 
λοιδορήσειαν, ἀλλ᾽ ὥσπερ ἂν μουσικὸς ἐντυχὼν 
A : \ 
ἀνδρὶ οἰομένῳ ἁρμονικῷ εἶναι, ὅτι δὴ τυγχάνει 
> ’ὔ Ὁ , > Ze / 
ἐπιστάμενος ws οἷόν τε ὀξυτάτην καὶ βαρυτάτην 
lal , 4 
χορδὴν ποιεῖν, οὐκ ἀγρίως εἴποι av’ ὦ μοχθηρέ, 
an ΄ μά 
μελαγχολᾷς, ἀλλ᾽ ἅτε μουσικὸς ὧν πρᾳότερον ὅτε, 
ὦ ἄριστε, ἀνάγκη μὲν καὶ ταῦτ᾽ ἐπίστασθαι τὸν 
/ ¢€ \ Μ ἡδὲ \ ἣν, 
μέλλοντα ἁρμονικὸν ἔσεσθαι, οὐδὲν μὴν κωλύει 
μηδὲ σμικρὸν ἁρμονίας ἐπαΐειν τὸν τὴν σὴν ἕξιν 
ἔχοντα᾽ τὰ γὰρ πρὸ ἁρμονίας ἀναγκαῖα μαθήματα 
ἐπίστασαι, ἀλλ᾽ οὐ τὰ ἁρμονικά. 
ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. ᾿Ορθότατά γε. 
A an \ , 
ΣΏΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν καὶ ὁ Σοφοκλῆς τὸν σφίσιν 
> δ ΄ \ \ δ “a , END We ᾽ 
ἐπιδεικνύμενον τὰ πρὸ τρωγῳδίας ἂν φαίη ἀλλ᾽ οὐ 
542 


PHAEDRUS 


PHAEDRUS. They would say, I fancy, that the man 
was crazy and, because he had read something in a 
book or had stumbled upon some medicines, imagined 
that he was a physician when he really. had no 
knowledge of the art. 

socraTes. And what if someone should go to 
Sophocles or Euripides and should say that he knew 
how to make very long speeches about a small matter, 
and very short ones about a great affair, and pitiful 
utterances, if he wished, and again terrible and 
threatening ones, and all that sort of thing, and that 
he thought by imparting those things he could teach 
the art of writing tragedies ? 

PHAEDRUS. They also, I fancy, Socrates, would 
laugh at him, if he imagined that tragedy was any- 
thing else than the proper combination of these 
details in such a way that they harmonize with each 
other and with the whole composition. 

socraTes. But they would not, I suppose, rebuke 
him harshly, but they would behave as a musician 
would, if he met a man who thought he understood 
harmony because he could strike the highest and 
lowest notes. He would not say roughly, “ You 
wretch, you are mad,” but being a musician, he 
would say in gentler tones, “ My friend, he who is 
to be a harmonist must know these things you 
mention, but nothing prevents one who is at your 
stage of knowledge from being quite ignorant of 
harmony. You know the necessary preliminaries of 
harmony, but not harmony itself.” 

PHAEDRUS. Quite correct. 

socRATES. So Sophocles would say that the man 
exhibited the preliminaries of tragedy, not tragedy 


543 


PLATO 


A 4, \ e b \ \ Ν ᾽» A 
Ta τραγικά, καὶ ὁ ᾿Ακουμενὸς τὰ πρὸ ἰατρικῆς 
ἀλλ᾽ οὐ τὰ ἰατρικά. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Παντάπασι μὲν οὖν. 

53. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί δέ; τὸν μελίγηρυν "Αδραστον 

γ7 A \ ΄ > 9 ΄ 2 nA \ 
οἰόμεθα ἢ καὶ Περικλέα, εἰ ἀκούσειαν ὧν viv δὴ 
ἡμεῖς διῇμεν τῶν παγκάλων τεχνημάτων, βραχυ- 
λογιῶν τε καὶ εἰκονολογιῶν καὶ ὅσα ἄλλα 

, ς ᾽ ᾽ \ Μ» 9 , 
διελθόντες ὑπ᾽ αὐγὰς ἔφαμεν εἶναι σκεπτέα, 
πότερον χαλεπῶς ἂν αὐτούς, ὥσπερ ἐγώ τε καὶ 
σύ, ὑπ᾽ ἀγροικίας ῥῆμά τι εἰπεῖν ἀπαίδευτον εἰς 
τοὺς ταῦτα γεγραφότας τε καὶ διδάσκοντας ὡς 
ῥητορικὴν τέχνην, ἢ ἅτε ἡμῶν ὄντας σοφωτέρους 
κἂν νῷν ἐπιπλῆξαι εἰπόντας" ὦ Φαῖδρέ τε καὶ 
Σώκρατες, οὐ χρὴ χαλεπαίνειν ἀλλὰ συγγυγνώ- 
σκειν, εἴ τινες μὴ ἐπιστάμενοι διαλέγεσθαι 
ἀδύνατοι ἐγένοντο ὁρίσασθαι, τί ποτ᾽ ἔστιν 
\ Ly a “ 
ῥητορική, ἐκ δὲ τούτου τοῦ πάθους τὰ πρὸ τῆς 
τέχνης ἀναγκαῖα μαθήματα ἔχοντες ῥητορικὴν 
ὠήθησαν ηὑρηκέναι, καὶ ταῦτα δὴ διδάσκοντες 
» c lal lA / « \ 
ἄλλους ἡγοῦνται σφίσιν τελέως ῥητορικὴν δεδι- 
δάχθαι, τὸ δὲ ἕκαστα τούτων πιθανῶς λέγειν τε 

\ NP ey, » OA ” > \ a 

καὶ τὸ ὅλον συνίστασθαι, οὐδὲν ἔργον, αὐτοὺς δεῖν. 
A \ A / 
Tap ἑαυτῶν τοὺς μαθητὰς σφῶν πορίξεσθαι ἐν 
τοῖς λόγοις. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. ᾿Αλλὰ μήν, ὦ Σώκρατες, κινδυνεύει 
a A ΝΜ 
τοιοῦτόν TL εἶναι τὸ τῆς τέχνης, ἣν οὗτοι οἱ ἄνδρες 
ὡς ῥητορικὴν διδάσκουσίν τε καὶ γράφουσιν" καὶ 
MM a ? n ᾽ , ’ Ἂς \ \ “Ἢ 
ἔμουγε δοκεῖς ἀληθῆ εἰρηκέναι: ἀλλὰ δὴ τὴν τοῦ 


544 


PHAEDRUS 


itself, and Acumenus that he knew the preliminaries 
of medicine, not medicine itself. 

PHAEDRUS. Exactly so. 

socrRATES. Well then, if the mellifluous Adrastus! 
or Pericles heard of the excellent accomplish- 
ments which we just enumerated, brachylogies 
and figurative speech and all the other things 
we said we must bring to the light and examine, 
do we suppose they would, like you and me, be so 
illbred as to speak discourteously of those who 
have written and taught these things as the art of 
rhetoric? Would they not, since they are wiser 
than we, censure us also and say, “ Phaedrus and 
Socrates, we ought not to be angry, but lenient, if 
certain persons who are ignorant of dialectics have 
been unable to define the nature of rhetoric and on 
this account have thought, when they possessed the 
knowledge that is a necessary preliminary to 
rhetoric, that they had discovered rhetoric, and 
believe that by teaching these preliminaries to 
others they have taught them rhetoric completely, 
and that the persuasive use of these details and the 
composition of the whole discourse is a small matter 
which their pupils must supply of themselves in 
their writings or speeches.” 

PHAEDRUs. Well, Socrates, it does seem as if that 
which those men teach and write about as the art of 
rhetoric were such as you describe. I think you are 

1 Tyrtaeus, ed. Bergk, first ed. frg. 9, 7, οὐδ᾽ εἰ Tavrar.d3ew 
Πέλοπος βασιλεύτερος εἴη γλῶσσαν δ᾽ ᾿Αδρήστου μειλιχόγηρυν 
ἔχοι, ‘‘not even if he were more kingly than Pelops and had 
the mellifluous tongue of Adrastus.” Perhaps the orator 


Antiphon is referred to under the name of Adrastus, cf. 
chapter xliii. above, 


545 


10 


PLATO 


τῷ ὄντι ῥητορικοῦ τε Kal πιθανοῦ τέχνην πῶς 
καὶ πόθεν av τις δύναιτο πορίσασθαι; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τὸ μὲν δύνασθαι, ὦ Φαῖδρε, ὥστε 
ἀγωνιστὴν τέλεον γενέσθαι, εἰκός, ἴσως δὲ καὶ 
ἀναγκαῖον, ἔχειν ὥσπερ τἄλλα. εἰ μέν σοι 
ὑπάρχει φύσει ῥητορικῷ εἶναι, ἔσει ῥήτωρ 

/ \ ᾽ ΄ \ ΄ Ἢ 
ἐλλόγιμος, προσλαβὼν ἐπιστήμην τε καὶ μελέτην 
ov 2 A , 4 4 2 \ » 
ὅτου δ᾽ ἂν ἐλλίπῃς τούτων, ταύτῃ ἀτελὴς ἐσει. 
ef \ 3 “ 7 > Φ , \ / 
ὅσον δὲ αὐτοῦ τέχνη, οὐχ ἡ Λυσίας τε Kal Θρασύ- 
μαχος πορεύεται, δοκεῖ μοι φαίνεσθαι ἡ μέθοδος. 

> δὰ a / 
ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. ᾿Αλλὰ πῇ δή; 
΄ 4 Mv b Mette 2 ς 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Κινδυνεύει, ὦ ἄριστε, εἰκότως ὁ 
Περικλῆς πάντων τελεώτατος εἰς τὴν ῥητορικὴν 
γενέσθαι. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τί δή; 

54. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Πᾶσαι ὅσαι μεγάλαι τῶν τεχνῶν, 
προσδέονται ἀδολεσχίας καὶ μετεωρολογίας 
φύσεως πέρι' τὸ γὰρ ὑψηλόνουν τοῦτο καὶ πάντῃ 
τελεσιουργὸν ἔοικεν ἐντεῦθέν ποθεν εἰσιέναι. 
ὃ καὶ Περικλῆς πρὸς τῷ εὐφυὴς εἶναι ἐκτήσατο" 
προσπεσὼν γάρ, οἶμαι, τοιούτῳ ὄντι ᾿Αναξαγόρᾳ, 
μετεωρολογίας ἐμπλησθεὶς καὶ ἐπὶ φύσιν νοῦ τε 
καὶ ἀνοίας ἀφικόμενος, ὧν δὴ πέρι τὸν πολὺν 
λόγον ἐποιεῖτο ᾿Αναξαγόρας, ἐντεῦθεν εἵλκυσεν 
ἐπὶ τὴν τῶν λόγων τέχνην τὸ πρόσφορον αὐτῇ. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Πῶς τοῦτο λέγεις; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ὁ αὐτός που τρόπος τέχνης ἰατρικῆς, 
ὅσπερ καὶ ῥητορικῆς. 

ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ. [Πῶς δή; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ‘Ev ἀμφοτέραις δεῖ διελέσθαι φύσιν, 
σώματος μὲν ἐν τῇ ἑτέρᾳ, ψυχῆς δὲ ἐν τῇ ἑτέρᾳ, εἰ 
546 


PHAEDRUS 


right. But how and from whom is the truly 
rhetorical and persuasive art to be acquired ? 

socrATES. Whether one can acquire it, so as to 
become a perfect orator, Phaedrus, is probably, and 
perhaps must be, dependent on conditions, like 
everything else. If you are naturally rhetorical, you 
will become a notable orator, when to your natural 
endowments you have added knowledge and prac- 
tice; at whatever point you are deficient in these, 
you will be incomplete. But so far as the art is 
concerned, I do not think the quest of it lies along 
the path of Lysias and Thrasymachus. 

PHAEDRUS. Where then? 

socraTes. I suppose, my friend, Pericles is the 
most perfect orator in existence. 

PHAEDRus. Well? 

socraTes. All great arts demand discussion and 
high speculation about nature; for this loftiness of 
mind and effectiveness in all directions seem some- 
how to come from such pursuits. This was in 
Pericles added to his great natural abilities; for it 
was, I think, his falling in with Anaxagoras, who 
was just such a man, that filled him with high 
thoughts and taught him the nature of mind and of 
lack of mind, subjects about which Anaxagoras used 
chiefly to discourse, and from these speculations 
he drew and applied to the art of speaking what is 
of use to it. 

PHAEDRUS. What do you mean by that? 

socRATES. The method of the art of healing is 
much the same as that of rhetoric. 

PHAEDRUS. How so? 

SOCRATES. In both cases you must analyse a nature, 
in one that of the body and in the other that of the 


547 


PLATO 


μέλλεις μὴ τριβῇ μόνον καὶ ἐμπειρίᾳ, ἀλλὰ πέχνῃ, 
τῷ μὲν φάρμακα καὶ τροφὴν προσφέρων ὑγίειαν 
καὶ ῥώμην ἐμποιήσειν, τῇ δὲ λόγους τε καὶ ἐπιτη- 
δεύσεις νομίμους πειθὼ ἣν ἂν βούλῃ καὶ ἀρετὴν 
παραδώσειν. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τὸ γοῦν εἰκός, ὦ Σώκρατες, οὕτως. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ψυχῆς οὖν φύσιν ἀξίως. λόγου κατα- 
νοῆσαι οἴει δυνατὸν εἶναι ἄνευ τῆς τοῦ ὅλον 
φύσεως; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Εἰ μὲν Ἱπποκράτει γε τῷ τῶν ᾿Ασκλη.- 
πιαδῶν δεῖ τι πιθέσθαι, οὐδὲ περὶ σώματος ἄνευ 
τῆς μεθόδου ταύτης. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Καλῶς γάρ, ὦ ἑταῖρε, λέγει" χρὴ 
μέντοι πρὸς τῷ Ἱπποκράτει τὸν λόγον ἐξετάζοντα 
σκοπεῖν, εἰ συμφωνεῖ. 

ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ. Φημί. 

δῦ. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τὸ τοίνυν περὶ φύσεως σκόπει τί 
ποτε “λέγει Ἱπποκράτης τε καὶ ὁ 0 ἀληθὴς λόγος. 
ap’ οὐχ ὧδε δεῖ διανοεῖσθαι περὶ ὁτουοῦν φύσεως" 
πρῶτον μέν, ἁπλοῦν ἢ πολυειδές ἐστιν, οὗ πέρι 
βουχησόμεθα εἶναι αὐτοὶ τεχνικοὶ καὶ ἄλλον 
δυνατοὶ ποιεῖν, ἔπειτα δέ, ἂν μὲν ἁπλοῦν ἦ, 
σκοπεῖν τὴν δύναμιν αὐτοῦ, τίνα πρὸς τί, πέφυκεν 
εἰς τὸ δρᾶν ἔχον ἢ τίνα εἰς τὸ παθεῖν ὑπὸ τοῦ, ἐὰν 
δὲ πλείω εἴδη ἔχῃ, ταῦτα ἀριθμησάμενον, ὅπερ 
ἐφ᾽ ἑνός, τοῦτ᾽ ἰδεῖν ἐφ᾽ ἑκάστου, τῷ τί ποιεῖν 
αὐτὸ πέφυκεν ἢ τῷ τί παθεῖν ὑ ὑπὸ τοῦ; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Κινδυνεύει, ὦ ὦ Σώκρατες. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἢ γοῦν ἄνευ τούτων μέθοδος ἐοίΐκοι 
ἂν ὥσπερ τυφλοῦ πορείᾳ" ἀλλ᾽ οὐ μὴν ἀπεικα- 
στέον τόν γε τέχνῃ μετιόντα ὁτιοῦν τυφλῷ οὐδὲ 
κωφῷ, ἀλλὰ δῆλον ὡς, ἄν τῴ τις τέχνῃ λόγους 


548 


PHAEDRUS 


soul, if you are to proceed in a scientific manner, not 
merely by practice and routine, to impart health and 
strength to the body by prescribing medicine and 
diet, or by proper discourses and training to give to 
the soul the desired belief and virtue. 

PHAEDRUs. That, Socrates, is probably true. 

socraTes. Now do you think one can acquire any 
appreciable knowledge of the nature of the soul 
without knowing the nature of the whole man ὃ 

PHAEDRUS. If Hippocrates the Asclepiad is to be 
trusted, one cannot know the nature of the body, 
either, except in that way. 

socraTes. He is right, my friend; however, we 
ought not to be content with the authority of 
Hippocrates, but to see also if our reason agrees with 
him on examination. 

PHAEDRus. [ assent. 

socraTEs. Then see what Hippocrates and true 
reason say about nature. In considering the nature 
of anything, must we not consider first, whether that 
in respect to which we wish to be learned ourselves 
and to make others learned is simple or multiform, 
and then, if it is simple, enquire what power of acting 
it possesses, or of being acted upon, and by what, 
and if it has many forms, number them, and then see 
in the case of each form, as we did in the case of the 
simple nature, what its action is and how it is 
acted upon and by what ? 

PHAEDRUs. Very likely, Socrates. 

socRATEs. At any rate, any other mode of 
procedure would be like the progress of a blind man. 
Yet surely he who pursues any study scientifically 
ought not to be comparable to a blind or a deaf man, 
but evidently the man whose rhetorical teaching 


549 


71 


PLATO 


διδῷ, τὴν οὐσίαν δείξει ἀκριβῶς τῆς φύσεως 
τούτου, πρὸς ὃ τοὺς λόγους προσοίσει" ἔσται δέ 
που ψυχὴ τοῦτο. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τί μήν; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν ἡ ἅμιλλα αὐτῷ τέταται πρὸς 
τοῦτο πᾶσα' πειθὼ γὰρ ἐν τούτῳ ποιεῖν ἐπιχειρεῖ. 
ἦ γάρ; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Nat. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Δῆλον ἄρα ὅτι ὁ Θρασύμαχός τε καὶ 
ὃς ἂν ἄλλος σπουδῇ τέχνην. ῥητορικὴν διδῷ, 
πρῶτον πάσῃ ἀκριβείᾳ γράψει τε καὶ ποιήσει 
ψυχὴν ἰδεῖν, πότερον ὃν καὶ ὅμοιον πέφυκεν ἢ 
κατα σώματος μορφὴν πολυειδές: τοῦτο γάρ φαμεν 
φύσιν εἶναι δεικνύναι. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Παντάπασι μὲν οὖν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Δεύτερον δέ γε, ὅτῳ τί ποιεῖν ἢ 
παθεῖν ὑπὸ τοῦ πέφυκεν. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τί μήν; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τρίτον δὲ δὴ διαταξάμενος τὰ λόγων 
τε καὶ ψυχῆς γένη καὶ τὰ τούτων παθήματα 
δίεισι τὰς αἰτίας, προσαρμόττων ἕ ἕκαστον ἑκάστῳ 
καὶ διδάσκων, οἵα οὖσα ὑφ᾽ οἵων λόγων δι᾽ ἣν 
αἰτίαν ἐξ ἀνάγκης ἡ μὲν πείθεται, ἡ δὲ ἀπειθεῖ. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Κάλλιστα γοῦν ἄν, ὡς ἔοικ᾽, ἔχοι οὕτως. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὔτοι μὲν οὖν, ὧ φίλε, ἄλλως ἐνδεικ- 
νύμενον ἢ λεγόμενον τέχνῃ ποτὲ λεχθήσεται ἢ 
γραφήσεται οὔτε τι ἄλλο οὔτε τοῦτο᾽ ἀλλ᾽ οἱ νῦν 
γράφοντες, ὧν σὺ ἀκήκοας, τέχνας λόγων 
πανοῦργοί εἰσι καὶ ἀποκρύπτονται, εἰδότες ψυχῆς 
πέρι παγκάλως" πρὶν ἂν οὖν τὸν τρόπον τοῦτον 
λέγωσί τε καὶ γράφωσι, μὴ πειθώμεθα αὐτοῖς 


τέχνῃ γράφειν. 
55° 


PHAEDRUS 


is a real art will explain accurately the nature of that 
to which his words are to be addressed, and that is 
the soul, is it not? 

PHAEDRUS. Of course. 

socraTEs. Then this is the goal of all his effort ; 
he tries to produce conviction in the soul. Is not 
that so? 

PHAEDRuS. Yes. 

socRATEs. So it is clear that Thrasymachus, or 
anyone else who seriously teaches the art of rhetoric, 
will first describe the soul with perfect accuracy 
and make us see whether it is one and all alike, or, 
like the body, of multiform aspect; for this is what 
we call explaining its nature. 

PHAEDRUS. Certainly. 

socraTEes, And secondly he will say what its 
action is and toward what it is directed, or how it is 
acted upon and by what. 

PHAEDRUS. To be sure. 

socraTEs. Thirdly, he will classify the speeches 
and the souls and will adapt each to the other, 
showing the causes of the effects produced and why 
one kind of soul is necessarily persuaded by certain 
classes of speeches, and another is not. 

PHAEDRUS. That would, I think, be excellent. 

socraTEs. By no other method of exposition or 
speech will this, or anything else, ever be written or 
spoken with real art. But those whom you have 
heard, who write treatises on the art of speech 
nowadays, are deceivers and conceal the nature of 
the soul, though they know it very well. Until they 
write and speak by this method we cannot believe 
that they write by the rules of art. 


55! 


PLATO 


ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ. Τίνα τοῦτον; 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Αὐτὰ μὲν τὰ ῥήματα εἰπεῖν οὐκ 
εὐπετές" ὡς δὲ δεῖ γράφειν, εἰ μέλλει τεχνικῶς 
’ 
ἔχειν καθ᾽ ὅσον ἐνδέχεται, λέγειν ἐθέλω. 
ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. λέγε δή. 
, 
56. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Επειδὴ λόγου δύναμις τυγ- 
» ’ 4 \ 4 e Ων 
χάνει Ψψυχαγωγία οὖσα, τὸν μέλλοντα ῥητορικὸν 
Μ > / ᾽ / \ “ Μ Μ 
ἔσεσθαι ἀνάγκη εἰδέναι ψυχὴ ὅσα εἴδη ἔχει. 
ἔστιν οὖν τόσα καὶ τόσα, καὶ τοῖα καὶ Tota: 
σ΄ e A / ir \ ᾽ὔ » 4 
ὅθεν οἱ μὲν τοιοίδε, οἱ δὲ τοιοίδε γίγνονται" τούτων 
\ \ ΄ ΄ 2 , Ν , Μ 
δὲ δὴ διῃρημένων, λόγων αὖ τόσα καὶ τόσα ἔστιν 
v / “ e \ 2 , ς Ν ~ 
εἴδη, τοιόνδε ἕκαστον. οἱ μὲν οὖν τοιοίδε ὑπὸ τῶν 
a , \ / Ἁ Βα ? \ , 
τοιῶνδε λόγων διὰ τήνδε τὴν αἰτίαν εἰς τὰ τοιάδε 
εὐπειθεῖς, οἱ δὲ τοιοίδε διὰ τάδε δυσπειθεῖς" δεῖ 
A A \ A 
δὴ ταῦτα ἱκανῶς νοήσαντα, μετὰ ταῦτα θεώμενον 
αὐτὰ ἐν ταῖς πράξεσιν ὄντα τε καὶ πραττόμενα, 
A 4 - 
ὀξέως τῇ αἰσθήσει δύνασθαι ἐπακολουθεῖν, ἢ 
\ - ἡ / / > a ¢ , Μ ΄ 
μηδὲν εἶναί πω πλέον αὐτῷ ὧν τότε ἤκουεν λόγων 
/ 4 \ ? “ e a Μ ς ᾽ 
ξυνών. ὅταν δὲ εἰπεῖν τε ἱκανῶς ἔχῃ, οἷος ὑφ 
‘ 
οἵων πείθεται, παραγιγνόμενόν te δυνατὸς ἡ δι- 
αἰσθανόμενος ἑαυτῷ ἐνδείκνυσθαι, ὅτι οὗτός ἐστιν 
\ “ e ΄ Vile , 4 ς , 
καὶ αὕτη ἡ φύσις, περὶ ἧς τότε ἦσαν οἱ λόγοι, 
fo n aoa. 
νῦν ἔργῳ παροῦσά ol, 7 προσοιστέον τούσδε ὧδε 
Ἁ , pp =! \ ~ , A 4 
Tous λόγους ἐπὶ τὴν τῶνδε πειθώ, ταῦτα δ᾽ ἤδη 
\ ἴω 
πάντα ἔχοντι, προσλαβόντι καιροὺς τοῦ πότε 
/ \ > / / φ \ 
λεκτέον Kal ἐπισχετέον, Bpayvroyias τε αὖ καὶ 
’; \ , e 4 wf 29 A 
ἐλεειναλογίας καὶ δεινώσεως ἑκάστων τε ὅσ᾽ ἂν 


552 


‘PHAEDRUS 


PHaEDRUS. What is this method ὃ 

socraTes. It is not easy to tell the exact 
expressions to be used ; but I will tell how one must 
write, if one is to do it, so far as possible, in a truly 
artistic way. 

PHAEDRUS. Speak then. 

sockaTes. Since it is the function of speech to 
lead souls by persuasion, he who is to be a rhetorician 
must know the various forms of soul. Now they are 
so and so many and of such and such kinds, where- 
fore men also are of different kinds: these we must 
classify. Then there are also various classes of 
speeches, to one of which every speech belongs. So 
men of a certain sort are easily persuaded by 
speeches of a certain sort for a certain reason to 
actions or beliefs of a certain sort, and men of 
another sort cannot be so persuaded. The student 
of rhetoric must, accordingly, acquire a _ proper 
knowledge of these classes and then be able to 
follow them accurately with his senses when he sees 
them in the practical affairs of life; otherwise he can 
never have any profit from the lectures he may have 
heard. But when he has learned to tell what sort 
of man is influenced by what sort of speech, and is 
able, if he comes upon such a man, to recognize him 
and to convince himself that this is the man and this 
now actually before him is the nature spoken of in 
a certain lecture, to which he must now make a 
practical application of a certain kind of speech in 
a certain way to persuade his hearer to a certain 
action or belief—when he has acquired all this, 
and has added thereto a knowledge of the times for 
speaking and for keeping silence, and has also dis- 
tinguished the favourable occasions for brief speech 
or pitiful speech or intensity and all the classes 


593 


PLATO 


εἴδη μάθῃ λόγων, τούτων THY εὐκαιρίαν τε καὶ 
ἀκαιρίαν διαγνόντι, καλῶς τε καὶ τελέως ἐστὶν ἡ 
τέχνη ἀπειργασμένη, πρότερον δ᾽ οὔ" ἀλλ᾽ ὅ τι 
ἂν αὐτῶν τις ἐλλείπῃ λέγων ἢ διδάσκων ἢ γρά- 
φων, φῇ δὲ τέχνη λέγειν, ὁ μὴ πειθόμενος κρατεῖ. 
τί δὴ οὖν; φήσει ἴσως ὁ συγγραφεύς, ὦ Φαῖδρέ τε 
καὶ Σώκρατες, δοκεῖ οὕτως; ἢ ἄλλως πως ἀπο- 
δεκτέον λεγομένης λόγων τέχνης; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. ᾿Αδύνατόν που, ὦ Σώκρατες, ἄλλως: 
καίτοι οὐ σμικρόν γε φαίνεται ἔργον. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ᾿Αληθῆ λέγεις. τούτου ποι ἕνεκα 
χρὴ πάντας τοὺς λόγους ἄνω καὶ κάτω μετα- 
στρέφοντα ἐπισκοπεῖν, εἴ τίς πῃ ῥάων καὶ βραχυ- 
τέρα φαίνεται ἐπ᾽ αὐτὴν ὁδός, ἵνα μὴ μάτην 
πολλὴν ἴ in καὶ τραχεῖαν, ἐξὸν ὀλίγην TE καὶ λείαν. 
ἀλλ᾽ εἴ τινά πῃ βοήθειαν ἔ ἔχεις ἐπακηκοὼς Λυσίου 
ἤ τινος ἄλλου, πειρῶ λέγειν ΠΕΡ ΠΡ τὸ BSS. 

ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ. “ἕνεκα μὲν πείρας ἔχοιμ᾽ ἄν, ἀλλ᾽ 
οὔτι νῦν γ᾽ οὕτως ἔχω. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Βούλει οὖν ἐγώ τιν᾽ εἴπω λόγον, ὃν 
τῶν περὶ ταῦτά τινων ἀκήκοα; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τί μήν; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Δέγεται γοῦν, ὦ Φαῖδρε, δίκαιον 
εἶναι καὶ τὸ τοῦ λύκου εἰπεῖν. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Καὶ σύ γε οὕτω ποίει. 

ὅ7. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Φασὶ τοίνυν. οὐδὲν οὕτω ταῦτα 
δεῖν σεμνύνειν οὐδ᾽ ἀνάγειν. ἄνω μακρὰν περι- 
βαλλομένους" παντάπασι γάρ, ὃ καὶ κατ᾽ ἀρχὰς 
εἴπομεν τοῦδε τοῦ λόγου, ὅτι οὐδὲν ἀληθείας 
μετέχειν δέοι δικαίων ἢ ἀγαθῶν πέρι πραγμάτων, 

1 Schanz reads λέγοιμ᾽ ἄν. 


554 


~ PHAEDRUS 


of speech which he has learned, then, and not 
till then, will his art be fully and completely 
finished ; and if anyone who omits any of these 
points in his speaking or writing claims to speak by 
the rules of art, the one who disbelieves him is the 
better man. ‘ Now then,’ perhaps the writer of our 
treatise will say, “ Phaedrus and Socrates, do you 
agree to all this? Or must the art of speech be 
described in some other way ?”’ 

PHAEDRUS. No other way is possible, Socrates. 
But it seems a great task to attain to it. 

socraTES. Verytrue. Therefore you must examine 
all that has been said from every point of view, to 
see if no shorter and easier road to the art appears, 
that one may not take a long and rough road, when 
there is a short and smooth one. If you have heard 
from Lysias or anyone else anything that can help 
us, try to remember it and tell it. 

PHAEDRUs. If it depended on trying, I might, but 
just now I have nothing to say. 

socraTes. Thenshall I tell something that I have 
heard some of those say who make these matters 
their business? 

PHAEDRUS. Pray do. 

socRATES. Even the wolf, you know, Phaedrus, 
has a right to an advocate, as they say. 

PHAEDRUS. Do you be his advocate. 

socrATes. Very well. They say that there is no 
need of treating these matters with such gravity and 
carrying them back so far to first principles with 
many words ; for, as we said in the beginning of this 
discussion, he who is to be a competent rhetorician 
need have nothing at all to do, they say, with truth 


555 


278 


PLATO 


un καὶ ἀνθρώπων γε τοιούτων φύσει ὄ ὄντων ἢ τροφῇ, 
τὸν “μέχλοντα ἱκανῶς ῥητορικὸν ἔσεσθαι. τὸ 
παράπαν γὰρ οὐδὲν ἐν τοῖς δικαστηρίοις τούτων 
ἀληθείας μέλειν οὐδενί, ἀλλὰ τοῦ πιθανοῦ' τοῦτο 
δ᾽ εἶναι τὸ εἰκός, ᾧ δεῖν προσέχειν τὸν μέλλοντα 
τέχνῃ ἐρεῖν. οὐδὲ γὰρ αὐτὰ τὰ πραχθέντα δεῖν 
λέγειν ἐνίοτε, ἐὰν μὴ εἰκότως ἦ πεπραγμένα, ἀλλὰ 
τὰ εἰκότα, ἔν τε “κατηγορίᾳ καὶ ἀπολογίᾳ' καὶ 
πάντως λέγοντα τὸ δὴ εἰκὸς διωκτέον εἶναι, πολλὰ 
εἰπόντα χαίρειν τῷ ἀληθεῖ: τοῦτο γὰρ διὰ παντὸς 
τοῦ λόγου γιγνόμενον τὴν ἅπασαν τέχνην πορί- 
ζειν. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Αὐτά γε, ὦ Σώκρατες, διελήλυθας 
ἃ λέγουσιν οἱ περὶ τοὺς λόγους τεχνικοὶ προσ- 
ποιούμενοι εἶναι. ἀνεμνήσθην γὰρ ὅτι ἐν τῷ 
πρόσθεν βραχέως τοῦ τοιούτου ἐφηψάμεθα, δοκεῖ 
δὲ τοῦτο πάμμεγα εἶναι τοῖς περὶ ταῦτα. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ᾿Αλλὰ μὴν τόν γε Τισίαν αὐτὸν 
πεπάτηκας ἀκριβῶς: εἰπέτω τοίνυν καὶ τόδε ἡμῖν 
ὁ Τισίας, μή τι ἄλλο λέγει τὸ εἰκὸς ἢ τὸ τῷ 
πλήθει δοκοῦν. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τί γὰρ ἄλλο; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τοῦτο δή, ὡς ἔοικε, σοφὸν εὑρὼν 
ἅμα καὶ τεχνικὸν ἔγραψεν, ὡς ἐάν τις ἀσθενὴς 
καὶ ἀνδρικὸς ἰ ἰσχυρὸν καὶ ὶ δειλὸν συγκόψας, t ἱμάτιον 

τι ἄλλο ἀφελόμενος, εἰς δικαστήριον ἄγηται, 
δεῖ δὴ τἀληθὲς μηδέτερον λέγειν, ἀλλὰ τὸν μὲν 
δειλὸν μὴ ὑπὸ μόνου φάναι τοῦ ἀνδρικοῦ συγ- 
κεκόφθαι, τὸν δὲ τοῦτο μὲν ἐλέγχειν ὡς ae 
ἤστην, ἐκείνῳ δὲ καταχρήσασθαι τῷ πῶς δ᾽ 
ἐγὼ τοιόσδε τοιῷδε ἐπεχείρησα; ὁ δ᾽ οὐκ ἐρεῖ δὴ 


556 


“ PHAEDRUS 


in considering things which are just or good, or men 
who are so, whether by nature or by education. For 
in the courts, they say, nobody cares for truth about 
these matters, but for that which is convincing ; and 
that is probability, so that he who is to be an artist in 
speech must fix his attention upon probability. For 
sometimes one must not even tell what was actually 
done, if it was not likely to be done, but what was 
probable, whether in accusation or defence; and in 
brief, a speaker must always aim at probability, 
paying no attention to truth; for this method, if 
pursued throughout the whole speech, provides us 
with the entire art. 

PHAEDRUS. You have stated just what those say 
who pretend to possess the art of speech, Socrates. 1 
remember that we touched upon this matter briefly 
before,} but the professional rhetoricians think it is of 
great importance. 

socraTEs. Well, there is Tisias whom you have 
studied carefully ; now let Tisias himself tell us if he 
does not say that probability is that which most 
people think. 

PHAEDRUs. ‘That is just what he says. 

socrATes. Apparently after he had invented this 
clever scientific definition, he wrote that if a feeble 
and brave man assaulted a strong coward, robbed him 
of his cloak or something, and was brought to trial for 
it, neither party ought to speak the truth; the 
coward should say that he had not been assaulted by 
the brave man alone, whereas the other should prove 
that only they two were present and should use the 
well-known argument, “ How could a little man like 
me assault such a man as he is?”’ The coward will 


1 See 259 Ε, 
§57 


214 


PLATO 


τὴν ἑαυτοῦ κάκην, ἀλλά τι ἄλλο ψεύδεσθαι 
ἐπιχειρῶν τάχ᾽ ἂν ἔχεγχόν πῃ παραδοίη τῷ 
ἀντιδίκῳ. καὶ περὶ τἄλλα δὴ τοιαῦτ᾽ ἄττα ἐστὶν 
τὰ τέχνῃ λεγόμενα. οὐ γάρ, ὦ Φαῖδρε; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τί μήν; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Φεῦ, δεινῶς γ᾽ ἔοικεν ἀποκεκρυμ- 
μένην τέχνην ἀνευρεῖν ὁ Τισίας ἢ ἄλλος ὅστις δή 
ποτ᾽ ὧν | τυγχάνει καὶ ὁπόθεν χαίρει ὀνομαζόμενος. 
ἀτάρ, ὦ ἑταῖρε, τούτῳ ἡμεῖς πότερον λέγωμεν 
ἢ μὴ-- 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τὸ ποῖον; 

58. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ὅτι, ὦ Τισία, πάλαι ἡμεῖς, 
πρὶν καὶ σὲ παρελθεῖν, τυγχάνομεν λέγοντες, ὡς 
ἄρα τοῦτο τὸ εἰκὸς τοῖς πολλοῖς δι᾽ ὁμοιότητα τοῦ 
ἀληθοῦς τυγχάνει. ἐγγιγνόμενον" τὰς δὲ ὁμοιότητας 
ἄρτι διήλθομεν ὅτι "πανταχοῦ ὁ τὴν ἀλήθειαν 
εἰδὼς κάλλιστα ἐπίσταται εὑρίσκειν. ὥστ᾽ εἰ 
μὲν ἄλλο τι περὶ τέχνης λόγων λέγεις, ἀκούοιμεν 
ἄν: εἰ δὲ μή, οἷς νυνδὴ διήλθομεν πεισόμεθα, ὡς 
ἐὰν μή τις τῶν τε ἀκουσομένων τὰς φύσεις διαριθ- 
μήσηται, καὶ κατ᾽ εἴδη τε διαιρεῖσθαι τὰ ὄντα καὶ 
μιᾷ ἰδέᾳ δυνατὸς ἡ Kal? ἕν ἕκαστον ,“περιλαμβά- 
νειν, οὔ ποτ᾽ ἔσται τεχνικὸς λόγων πέρι καθ᾽ ὅσον 
δυνατὸν ἀνθρώπῳ. ταῦτα δὲ οὐ μῇ ποτε : κτήσηται 
ἄνευ πολλῆς πραγματείας" ἣν οὐχ ἕνεκα τοῦ 
λέγειν καὶ πράττειν πρὸς ἀνθρώπους δεῖ διαπο- 
νεῖσθαι τὸν σώφρονα, ἀλλὰ τοῦ θεοῖς κεχαρισμένα 
μὲν λέγειν δύνασθαι, κεχαρισμένως δὲ πράττειν 
τὸ πᾶν εἰς δύναμιν. οὐ γὰρ δὴ ἄρα, ὦ Τισία, 
φασὶν οἱ σοφώτεροι ἡμῶν, ὁμοδούλοις δεῖ χαρί- 
ζεσθαι μελετᾶν τὸν νοῦν ἔχοντα, ὅ τι μὴ πάρεργον, 
ἀλλὰ δεσπόταις ἀγαθοῖς τε καὶ ἐξ ἀγαθῶν: ὥστ᾽ 


558 


΄ 


PHAEDRUS 


not acknowledge his cowardice, but will perhaps try 
to invent some other lie, and thus give his oppo- 
nent a chance to confute him. And in other cases 
there are other similar rules of art. Is that not so, 
Phaedrus ? 

PHAEDRUs. Certainly. 

socraTes. Oh, a wonderfully hidden art it seems 
to be which Tisias has brought to light, or some 
other, whoever he may be and whatever country he 
is proud to call his own! But, my friend, shall we 
say in reply to this, or shall we not— 

PHAEDRUs. What? 

socraTes. “ Tisias, some time ago, before you 
came along, we were saying that this probability of 
yours was accepted by the people because of its 
likeness to truth; and we just stated that he who 
knows the truth is always best able to discoyer like- 
nesses. And so, if you have anything else to say about 
the art of speech, we will listen to you; but if not, 
we will put our trust in what we said just now, that 
unless a man take account of the characters of his 
hearers and is able to divide things by classes and to 
comprehend particulars under a general idea, he will 
never attain the highest human perfection in the art of 
speech. But this ability he will not gain without 
much diligent toil, which a wise man ought not to 
undergo for the sake of speaking and acting before 
men, but that he may be able to speak and to do 
everything, so far as possible, in a manner pleasing 
to the gods. For those who are wiser than we, 
‘Tisias, say that a man of sense should surely practise 
to please not his fellow slaves, except as a secondary 
consideration, but his good and noble masters. 
Therefore, ifthe path is long, be not astonished ; 


559 


PLATO 


εἰ μακρὰ ἡ περίοδος, μὴ θαυμάσῃς" μεγάλων γὰρ 
ἕνεκα περιιτέον, οὐχ ὡς σὺ δοκεῖς. ἔσται μήν, 
ὡς ὁ λόγος φησίν, ἐάν τις ἐθέλῃ, καὶ ταῦτα 
κάλλιστα ἐξ ἐκείνων γιγνόμενα. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Taykdros ἔμοιγε δοκεῖ λέγεσθαι, ὦ 
Σώκρατες, εἴπερ οἷός τέ τις εἴη. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ᾿Αλλὰ καὶ ἐπιχειροῦντί TOL τοῖς 
καλοῖς καλὸν καὶ πάσχειν ὅ τι ἄν τῳ ξυμβῇ 
παθεῖν. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Καὶ μάλα. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν τὸ μὲν τέχνης τε καὶ ἀτε- 
χνίας λόγων πέρι ἱκανῶς ἐχέτω. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τί μήν; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. To & εὐπρεπείας δὴ γραφῆς πέρι 
καὶ ἀπρεπείας, πῇ γιγνόμενον καλώς ἂν ἔχοι καὶ 
ὅπῃ ἀπρεπῶς, λοιπόν. 7 γάρ; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Nas. 

ὅ9. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οἶσθ᾽ οὖν ὅπῃ μάλιστα θεῷ 
χαριεῖ λόγων πέρι πράττων ἢ λέγων; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Οὐδαμώς: σὺ δέ; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ᾿Ακοήν γ᾽ ἔχω λέγειν τῶν προτέρων, 
τὸ δ᾽ ἀληθὲς αὐτοὶ ἴσασιν. εἰ δὲ τοῦτο εὕροιμεν 
αὐτοί, apa y av ἔθ᾽ ἡμῖν μέλοι τι τῶν ἀνθρωπί- 
νων δοξασμάτων; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Γελοῖον ἤρου ἀλλ᾽ ἃ φῇς ἀκηκοέναι, 
λέγε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἤκουσα τοίνυν περὶ Ναύκρατιν τῆς 
Αἰγύπτου γενέσθαι τῶν ἐκεῖ παλαιῶν τινὰ θεῶν, 
οὗ καὶ τὸ ὄρνεον τὸ ἱερόν, ὃ δὴ καλοῦσιν ἴβιν' 
αὐτῷ δὲ ὄνομα τῷ δαίμονι εἶναι Θεύθ. τοῦτον δὲ 
πρῶτον “ἀριθμὸν τε καὶ λογισμὸν εὑρεῖν καὶ 
γεωμετρίαν καὶ ἀστρονομίαν, ἔτι δὲ πεττείας τε 


560 


΄ 


PHAEDRUS 


for it must be trodden for great ends, not for those 
you have in mind. Yet your ends also, as our 
argument says, will be best gained in this way, if 
one so desires.” 

pHaEpRus. I think what you have said is admir- 
able, if one could only do it. 

socraTes. But it is noble to strive after noble 
objects, no matter what happens to us. 

PHAEDRus. Certainly. 

socRATES. We have, then, said enough about the 
art of speaking and that which is no art. 

PHAEDRUs. Assuredly. 

socraTes. But we have still to speak of propriety 
and impropriety in writing, how it should be done 
and how it is improper, have we not? 

PHAEDRUS. Yes. 

socraTEs. Do you know how you can act or speak 
about rhetoric so as to please God best? 

PHAEDRUs. Not at all; do you? 

socRATEs. I can tell something I have heard of 
the ancients; but whether it is true, they only know. 
But if we ourselves should find it out, should we care 
any longer for human opinions? 

PHAEDRUs. A ridiculous question! But tell me 
what you say you have heard. 

socraTes. I heard, then, that at Naucratis, in 
Egypt, was one of the ancient gods of that country, 
the one whose sacred bird is called the ibis, and the 
name of the god himself was Theuth. He it was 
who invented numbers and arithmetic and geometry 
and astronomy, also draughts and dice, and, most 


561 


275 


PLATO 


καὶ κυβείας, καὶ δὴ καὶ γράμματα" βασιλέως δ᾽ 
αὖ τότε ὄντος Αἰγύπτου ὅλης Θαμοῦ περὶ τὴν 
μεγάλην πόλιν τοῦ ἄνω τόπου, ἣν οἱ “Ἑλληνες 
Αὐγυπτίας Θήβας καλοῦσι, καὶ τὸν θεὸν ἴΑμμωνα, 
παρὰ τοῦτον ἐλθὼν ὁ Θεὺθ τὰς τέχνας ἐπέδειξεν, 
καὶ ἔφη δεῖν διαδοθῆναι τοῖς ἄλλοις Αὐγυπτίοις. 
€ WZ φῇ « 7, Ν ᾽ ’ , 
ὁ δὲ ἤρετο, ἥντινα ἑκάστη ἔχοι ὠφελίαν, διεξιόντος 
δέ, ὅ TL καλῶς ἢ μὴ καλῶς δοκοῖ λέγειν, τὸ μὲν 
»Μ \ 7 > / \ \ \ \ bs / 
ἔψεγε, τὸ δ᾽ ἐπήνει. πολλὰ μὲν δὴ περὶ ἑκάστης 
a , > ᾽ bY] ’ A A \ 
τῆς τέχνης ἐπ᾽ ἀμφότερα Θαμοῦν τῷ Θεὺθ 
λέγεται ἀποφήνασθαι, ἃ λόγος πολὺς ἂν εἴη 
διελθεῖν: ἐπειδὴ δὲ ἐπὶ τοῖς γράμμασιν ἦν, τοῦτο 
δέ, ὦ βασιλεῦ, τὸ μάθημα, ἔφη ὁ Θεύθ, σοφω- 
τέρους Αἰγυπτίους καὶ μνημονικωτέρους παρέξει. 
μνήμης τε γὰρ καὶ σοφίας φάρμακον ηὑρέθη. ὁ δ' 
2 Rays, , ΄ » \ n 
εἶπεν: ὦ τεχνικώτατε Θεύθ, ἄλλος μὲν τεκεῖν 
δυνατὸς τὰ τῆς τέχνης, ἄλλος δὲ κρῖναι, τίν᾽ ἔχει 
va /2 b) / lal 7 
μοῖραν βλάβης τε καὶ ὠφελίας τοῖς μέλλουσι 
χρῆσθαι: καὶ νῦν σύ, πατὴρ ὧν γραμμάτων, ov 
εὔνοιαν τοὐναντίον εἶπες ἢ δύναται. τοῦτο γὰρ 
la) / fe \ > an / 
τῶν μαθόντων λήθην μὲν ἐν ψυχαῖς παρέξει 
/ 2 σ΄ \ / a Μ 
μνήμης ἀμελετησίᾳ, ἅτε διὰ πίστιν γραφῆς ἔξωθεν 
e ᾽ >] , , > ΝΜ > \ ©. ? 
ὑπ’ ἀλλοτρίων τύπων, οὐκ ἔνδοθεν αὐτοὺς ὑφ 
αὑτῶν ἀναμιμνῃσκομένους" οὔκουν μνήμης ἀλλ᾽ 
ὑπομνήσεως φάρμακον ηὗρες. σοφίας δὲ τοῖς 
a , 3 3 / / C / 
μαθηταῖς δόξαν, οὐκ ἀλήθειαν πορίζεις" πολυή- 
κοοι γάρ σοι γενόμενοι ἄνευ διδαχῆς πολυγνώμονες 
εἶναι δόξουσιν, ἀγνώμονες ὡς ἐπὶ τὸ πλῆθος οντες 
562 


PHAEDRUS 


important of all, letters. Now the king of all Egypt 
at that time was the god Thamus, who lived in the 
great city of the upper region, which the Greeks call 
the Egyptian Thebes, and they call the god himself 
Ammon. To him came Theuth to show his inven- 
tions, saying that they ought to be imparted to the 
other Egyptians. But Thamus asked what use there 
was in each, and as Theuth enumerated their uses, 
expressed praise or blame, according as he approved 
or disapproved. The story goes that Thamus said 
many things to Theuth in praise or blame of the 
various arts, which it would take too long to repeat ; 
but when they came to the letters, “This invention, 
O king,’ said Theuth, “will make the Egyptians 
wiser and will improve their memories; for it is an 
elixir of memory and wisdom that I have discovered.” 
But Thamus replied, “ Most ingenious Theuth, one 
man has the ability to beget arts, but the ability to 
judge of their usefulness or harmfulness to their users 
belongs to another; and now you, who are the father 
of letters, have been led by your affection to ascribe 
to them a power the opposite of that which they 
really possess. For this invention will produce for- 
getfulness in the minds of those who learn to use it, 
because they will not practise their memory. Their 
trust in writing, produced by external characters 
which are no part of themselves, will discourage the 
use of their own memory within them. You have 
invented an elixir not of memory, but of reminding ; 
and you offer your pupils the appearance of wisdom, 
not true wisdom, for they will read many things 
without instruction and will therefore seem to know 
many things, when they are for the most part ignorant 


563 


PLATO 


καὶ χαλεποὶ Evveivat, δοξόσοφοι γεγονότες ἀντὶ 
σοφῶν. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Ὦ Σώκρατες, ῥᾳδίως σὺ Αἰγυπτίους 
καὶ ὁποδαποὺς ἂν ἐθέλῃς λόγους ποιεῖς. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οἱ δέ γ᾽, ὦ φίλε, ἐν τῷ τοῦ Διὸς τοῦ 
Δωδωναίου ἱερῷ δρυὸς λόγους ἔφησαν μαντικοὺς 
πρώτους γενέσθαι. τοῖς μὲν οὖν τότε, ἅτε οὐκ 
οὖσι σοφοῖς ὥσπερ ὑμεῖς οἱ νέοι, ἀπέχρη δρυὸς 
καὶ πέτρας ἀκούειν ὑπ᾽ εὐηθείας, εἰ μόνον ἀληθῆ 
λέγοιεν" σοὶ & ἴσως διαφέρει τίς ὁ λέγων καὶ 
ποδαπός. οὐ γὰρ ἐκεῖνο μόνον σκοπεῖς, εἴτε οὕτως 
εἴτε ἄλλως ἔχει; 

ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ. ᾿Ορθῶς ἐπέπληξας, καί μοι δοκεῖ περὶ 
γραμμάτων ἔχειν ἧπερ ὁ Θηβαῖος λέγει. 

60. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν ὁ , Τέχνην οἰόμενος ἐν 

γράμμασι καταλιπεῖν, καὶ αὖ ὁ παραδεχόμενος ὥ ὥς 

τι σαφὲς καὶ βέβαιον ἐκ γραμμάτων ἐσόμενον, 
πολλῆς ἂν εὐηθείας γέμοι καὶ τῷ ὄντι τὴν 
Ἄμμωνος μαντείαν ἀγνοοῖ, πλέον τι οἰόμενος 
εἶναι “λόγους γεγραμμένους τοῦ τὸν εἰδότα 
ὑπομνῆσαι περὶ ὧν ἂν ἢ τὰ γεγραμμένα. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Ορθότατα. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Δεινὸν γάρ ποῦ, ὦ Φαῖδρε, τοῦτ᾽ 
ἔχει γραφή, καὶ ὡς ἀληθῶς ὅμοιον ξωγραφίᾳ. 
καὶ γὰρ τὰ ἐκείνης ἔκγονα ἕστηκε μὲν ὡς ζῶντα, 
ἐὰν δ᾽ ἀνέρῃ τι, σεμνῶς πάνυ σιγᾷ. ταὐτὸν δὲ καὶ 
οἱ λόγοι" δόξαις μὲν ἂν ὥς τι φρονοῦντας αὐτοὺς 
λέγειν, ἐὰν δέ τι ἔρῃ τῶν λεγομένων "βουλόμενος 
μαθεῖν, ἕν τι σημαίνει μόνον ταὐτὸν ἀεί. ὅταν δὲ 
ἅπαξ γραφῆ, κυλινδεῖται μὲν πανταχοῦ - πᾶς λόγος 
ὁμοίως παρὰ τοῖς ἐπαΐουσιν, ὡς δ᾽ αὕτως παρ᾽ 


564 


PHAEDRUS 


and hard to get along with, since they are not wise, 
but only appear wise.” 

PHAEDRus. Socrates, you easily make up stories of 
Egypt or any country you please. 

socraTes. They used to say, my friend, that the 
words of the oak in the holy place of Zeus at Dodona 
were the first prophetic utterances. The people of 
that time, not being so wise as you young folks, were 
content in their simplicity to hear an oak or a rock, 
provided only it spoke the truth ; but to you, perhaps, 
it makes a difference who the speaker is and where 
he comes from, for you do not consider only whether 
his words are true or not. 

PHAaEDRUs. Your rebuke is just; and I think the 
Theban is right in what he says about letters. 

socraTEes. He who thinks, then, that he has left 
behind him any art in writing, and he who receives it 
in the belief that anything in writing will be clear 
and certain, would be an utterly simple person, and 
in truth ignorant of the prophecy of Ammon, if he 
thinks written words are of any use except to remind 
him who knows the matter about which they are 
written. 

PHAEDRUS. Very true. 

socraTes. Writing, Phaedrus, has this strange 
quality, and is very like painting ; for the creatures 
of painting stand like living beings, but if one asks 
them a question, they preserve a solemn silence. 
And so it is with written words; you might think 
they spoke as if they had intelligence, but if you 
question them, wishing to know about their sayings, 
they always say only one and the same thing. And 
every word, when once it is written, is bandied about, 
alike among those who understand and those who 


565 


210 


PLATO 


+O\ ἣν. ᾿ 3 > , / 
ols οὐδὲν προσήκει, Kal οὐκ ἐπίσταται λέγειν οἷς 
δεῖ γε καὶ μή πλημμελούμενος δὲ καὶ οὐκ ἐν δίκῃ 
λοιδορηθεὶς τοῦ πατρὸς ἀεὶ δεῖται βοηθοῦ" αὐτὸς 

\ » 3. » / w θῇ ὃ Ἂν e “ 
γὰρ οὔτ᾽ ἀμύνασθαι οὔτε βοηθῆσαι δυνατὸς αὑτῷ. 

ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ. Καὶ ταῦτά σοι ὀρθότατα εἴρηται. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τί δ᾽; ἄλλον ὁρῶμεν λόγον τούτου 
ἀδελφὸν γνήσιον, τῷ τρόπῳ τε γίγνεται, καὶ ὅσῳ 
ἀμείνων καὶ δυνατώτερος τούτου φύεται; 

ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ. Τίνα τοῦτον καὶ πῶς λέγεις γιγνό- 
μενον; 

A ? 2 / 4 > a 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. “Os μετ᾽ ἐπιστήμης γράφεται ἐν τῇ 
τοῦ μανθάνοντος ψυχῇ, δυνατὸς μὲν ἀμῦναι ἑαυτῷ, 
ἐπιστήμων δὲ λέγειν τε καὶ σιγᾶν πρὸς ods δεῖ. 

‘ A > ’ ὦ / “ 

ΦΑΙ͂ΔΡΟΣ. Τὸν τοῦ εἰδότος λόγον λέγεις ζῶντα 
καὶ ἔμψυχον, οὗ ὁ γεγραμμένος εἴδωλον ἄν τι 
λέγοιτο δικαίως. 

61. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Παντάπασι μὲν οὖν. τόδε δή μοι 
εἰπέ" ὁ νοῦν ἔχων γεωργός, ὧν σπερμάτων κήδοιτο 
καὶ ἔγκαρπα βούλοιτο γενέσθαι, πότερα σπουδῇ 
A / ᾽ » ΄ 4 > nr , 
dv θέρους εἰς ᾿Αδώνιδος κήπους ἀρῶν χαίροι 
θεωρῶν καλοὺς ἐν ἡμέραισιν ὀκτὼ γιγνομένους, ἢ 
ταῦτα μὲν δὴ παιδιᾶς τε καὶ ἑορτῆς χάριν δρῴη ἄν, 
ὅτε καὶ ποιοῖ: ἐφ᾽ οἷς δὲ ἐσπούδακε, τῇ γεωργικῇ 
χρώμενος ἂν τέχνῃ, σπείρας εἰς τὸ προσῆκον, 
ἀγαπῴη ἂν ἐν ὀγδόῳ μηνὶ ὅσα ἔσπειρεν τέλος 
λαβόντα; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Οὕτω που, ὦ Σώκρατες, τὰ μὲν 

A \ Ne CoA ιτΔ Μ φ / lal 
σπουδῇ, τὰ δὲ ὡς ἑτέρως ἄν, ἡ λέγεις, ποιοῖ. 
566 


PHAEDRUS 


have no interest in it, and it knows not to whom to 
speak or not to speak; when ill-treated or unjustly 
reviled it always needs its father to help it; for it 
has no power to protect or help itself. 

PHAEDRUS. You are quite right about that, too. 

socraTes. Now tell me; is there not another kind 
of speech, or word, which shows itself to be the 
legitimate brother of this bastard one, both in the 
manner of its begetting and in its better and more 
powerful nature ? 

PHAEDRUS. What is this word and how is it 
begotten, as you say? 

socraTes. The word which is written with intel- 
iigence in the mind of the learner, which is able to 
defend itself and knows to whom it should speak, 
and before whom to be silent. 

PHAEDRUS. You mean the living and breathing 
word of him who knows, of which the written word 
may justly be called the image. 

socRATES. Exactly. Now tell me this. Would a 
sensible husbandman, who has seeds which he cares 
for and which he wishes to bear fruit, plant them 
with serious purpose in the heat of summer in some 
garden of Adonis, and delight in seeing them appear 
in beauty in eight days, or would he do that sort of 
thing, when he did it at all, only in play and for 
amusement? Would he not, when he was in earnest, 
follow the rules of husbandry, plant his seeds in 
fitting ground, and be pleased when those which he 
had sowed reached their perfection in the eighth 
month? 

PHAEDRUS. Yes, Socrates, he would, as you say, 
act in that way when in earnest and in the other way 
only for amusement. 


567 


τῷ 


PLATO 


ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Tov δὲ δικαίων τε καὶ καλῶν καὶ 
ἀγαθῶν ἐπιστήμας ἔχοντα τοῦ γεωργοῦ φῶμεν 
ἧττον νοῦν ἔχειν εἰς τὰ ἑαυτοῦ σπέρματα; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. “κιστά γε. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκ ἄρα σπουδῇ αὐτὰ ἐν ὕδατι 
γράψει μέλανι σπείρων διὰ καλάμου μετὰ λόγων 
> / ἃ e a / a > , < 
ἀδυνάτων μὲν αὑτοῖς λόγῳ βοηθεῖν, ἀδυνάτων δὲ 
« A 3 aA / 
ἱκανῶς τἀληθῆ διδάξαι. 

"» \ 4 3 ade 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Οὔκουν δὴ τὸ γ᾽ εἰκὸς. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐ γάρ᾽ ἀλλὰ τοὺς μὲν ἐν γράμμασι 
κήπους, ὡς ἔοικε, παιδιᾶς χάριν σπερεῖ τε καὶ 
γράψει, ὅταν γράφῃ, ἑαυτῷ τε ὑπομνήματα 
θησαυριζόμενος, εἰς τὸ λήθης γῆρας ἐὰν ἵκηται, 

A Ν / 
καὶ παντὶ τῷ ταὐτὸν ἴχνος μετιόντι, ἡσθήσεταί 
τε αὐτοὺς θεωρῶν φυομένους ἁπαλούς: ὅταν δὲ 
ἄλλοι παιδιαῖς ἄλλαις χρῶνται, συμποσίοις τε 
ἄρδοντες αὑτοὺς ἑτέροις τε ὅσα τούτων ἀδελφά, 
τότ᾽ ἐκεῖνος, ὡς ἔοικεν, ἀντὶ τούτων ols! λέγω 
παίζων διάξει. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Παγκάλην λέγεις παρὰ φαύλην 

“ , 
παιδιάν, ὦ Σώκρατες, τοῦ ἐν λόγοις δυναμένου 
maitew, δικαιοσύνης τε καὶ ἄλλων ὧν λέγεις πέρι 
μυθολογοῦντα. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἔστι γάρ, ὦ φίλε Φαῖδρε, οὕτω" 

\ » 3 / \ \ Sys TEN 
πολὺ δ᾽, οἶμαι, καλλίων σπουδὴ περὶ αὐτὰ 
γίγνεται, ὅταν τις τῇ διαλεκτικῇ τέχνῃ χρώμενος, 
λαβὼν ψυχὴν προσήκουσαν, φυτεύῃ τε καὶ 
σπείρῃ μετ᾽ ἐπιστήμης λόγους, οἱ ἑαυτοῖς τῷ τε 
φυτεύσαντι βοηθεῖν ἱκανοὶ καὶ οὐχὶ ἄκαρποι ἀλλὰ 
Μ / “ “ἵ > ΝΜ ΝΜ 
ἔχοντες σπέρμα, ὅθεν ἄλλοι ἐν ἄλλοις ἤθεσι 

1 οἷς BT. οὗ Schanz. 


568 


PHAEDRUS 


socraTes, And shall we suppose that he who has 
knowledge of the just and the good and beautiful 
has less sense about his seeds than the husbandman? 

PHAEDRUs. By no means. 

socraTes. Then he will not, when in earnest, 
write them in ink, sowing them through a pen with 
words which cannot defend themselves by argument 
and cannot teach the truth effectually. 

PHAEDRUs. No, at least, probably not. 

socrates. No. The gardens of letters he will, it 
seems, plant for amusement, and will write, when he 
writes, to treasure up reminders for himself, when he 
comes to the forgetfulness of old age, and for others 
who follow the same path, and he will be pleased 
when he sees them putting forth tender leaves. 
When others engage in other amusements, refreshing 
themselves with banquets and kindred entertain- 
ments, he will pass the time in such pleasures as I 
have suggested. 

PpHaEDRus. A noble pastime, Socrates, and a con- 
trast to those base pleasures, the pastime of the man 
who can find amusement in discourse, telling stories 
about justice, and the other subjects of which you 
speak. 

socraTes. Yes, Phaedrus, so it is; but, in my 
opinion, serious discourse about them is far nobler, 
when one employs the dialectic method and plants 
and sows in a fitting soul intelligent words which are 
able to help themselves and him who planted them, 
which are not fruitless, but yield seed from which 
there spring up in other minds other words capable 


569 


PLATO 


φυόμενοι τοῦτ᾽ ἀεὶ ἀθάνατον παρέχειν ixavot, καὶ 
τὸν ἔχοντα εὐδαιμονεῖν ποιοῦντες εἰς ὅσον 
ἀνθρώπῳ δυνατὸν μάλιστα. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Πολὺ γὰρ τοῦτ᾽ ἔτι κάλλιον λέγεις. 

62. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Nov δὴ ἐκεῖνα ἤδη, ὦ Φαῖδρε, 
δυνάμεθα κρίνειν, τούτων ὡμολογημένων. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τὰ ποῖα; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ὧν 67 πέρι βουληθέντες ἰδεῖν 
ἀφικόμεθα εἰς τόδε, ὅπως τὸ Λυσίου τε ὄνειδος 
ἐξετάσαιμεν τῆς τῶν λόγων γραφῆς πέρι, καὶ 
αὐτοὺς τοὺς λόγους οἱ τέχνῃ καὶ ἄνεν τέχνης 
γράφοιντο. τὸ μὲν οὖν ἔντεχνον καὶ μὴ δοκεῖ μοι 
δεδηλῶσθαι μετρίως. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. ἼἜ δοξέ γε 57° πάλιν δὲ ὑπόμνησόν με 
πῶς. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Πρὶν ἄν τις τό τε ἀληθὲς ἑκάστων 
εἰδῇ πέρι ὧν λέγει ἢ γράφει, κατ᾽ αὐτό τε πᾶν 
ὁρίζεσθαι δυνατὸς γένηται, ὁρισάμενός τε πάλιν 
κατ᾽ εἴδη μέχρι τοῦ ἀτμήτου τέμνειν ἐπιστηθῇ" 
περί τε ψυχῆς φύσεως διιδὼν κατὰ ταὐτά, τὸ 
προσαρμόττον ἑκάστῃ φύσει εἶδος ἀνευρίσκων, 
οὕτω τιθῇ καὶ διακοσμῇ τὸν λόγον, πποικίλῃ μὲν 
ποικίλους ψυχῇ καὶ παναρμονίους διδοὺς λόγους, 
ἁπλοῦς δὲ ἁπλῇ οὐ πρότερον δυνατὸν τέχνῃ 
ἔσεσθαι καθ᾽ ὅσον πέφυκε μεταχειρισθῆναι τὸ 
λόγων γένος, οὔτε τι πρὸς τὸ διδάξαι οὔτε τι πρὸς 
τὸ πεῖσαι, ὡς ὁ ἔμπροσθεν πᾶς μεμήνυκεν ἡμῖν 


λόγος. 


579 


1 Schanz omits καὶ. 


PHAEDRUS 


of continuing the process for ever, and which make 
their possessor happy, to the farthest possible limit 
of human happiness. 

PHAEDRuS. Yes, that is far nobler. 

socraTEs. And now, Phaedrus, since we have 
agreed about these matters, we can decide the 
others. 

PHAEDRUS. What others? 

socraTEs. Those which brought us to this point 
through our desire to investigate them, for we wished 
to examine into the reproach against Lysias as a 
speech-writer,! and also to discuss the speeches them- 
selves and see which were the products of art and 
which were not. I think we have shown pretty 
clearly what is and what is not a work of art. 

PHAEDRUS. Yes, 1 thought so, too; but please 
recall to my mind what was said. 

socrATEes. A man must know the truth about all 
the particular things of which he speaks or writes, 
and must be able to define everything separately ; 
then when he has defined them, he must know how 
to divide them by classes until further division is 
impossible; and in the same way he must under- 
stand the nature of the soul, must find out the class 
of speech adapted to each nature, and must arrange 
and adorn his discourse accordingly, offering to the 
complex soul elaborate and harmonious discourses, 
and simple talks to the simple soul. Until he has 
attained to all this, he will not be able to speak by 
the method of art, so far as speech can be controlled 
by method, either for purposes of instruction or of 
persuasion. This has been taught by our whole 
preceding discussion. 


1 See 257 o. 
571 


2 


» 


8 


PLATO 


ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Παντάπασι μὲν οὖν τοῦτό γε οὕτω 
πως ἐφάνη. 

03. 2AKPATH3. Τί δ᾽ αὖ περὶ τοῦ καλὸν ἢ 
αἰσχρὸν εἶναι τὸ λόγους λέγειν τε καὶ γράφειν, 
καὶ ὅπῃ γιγνόμενον ἐν δίκῃ λέγουτ᾽ ἂν ὄνειδος ἢ 
μή, ἄρα οὐ δεδήλωκεν τὰ λεχθέντα ὀλίγον ἔμπρο- 
σθεν --- 

ΦΑΙΔΡΌΣ. Τὰ ποῖα; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ὡς εἴτε Λυσίας 1 τις ἄλλος “ὠποτε 
ἔγραψεν ἢ ἢ γράψει ἰδίᾳ ἢ δημοσίᾳ vopous τιθείς, 
σύγγραμμα πολιτικὸν γράφων καὶ μεγάλην τινὰ 
ἐν αὐτῷ βεβαιότητα ἡγούμενος καὶ σαφήνειαν, 
οὕτω μὲν ὄνειδος τῷ γράφοντι, εἴτε τίς φησιν εἴτε 
μή" τὸ γὰρ ἀγνοεῖν ὕπαρ τε καὶ ὄναρ δικαίων TE 
καὶ ἀδίκων πέρι καὶ κακῶν καὶ ἀγαθῶν οὐκ ἐκ εύ- 
yet τῇ ἀληθείᾳ μὴ οὐκ ἐπονείδιστον εἶναι, οὐδὲ ἂν 
ὁ πᾶς ὄχλος αὐτὸ ἐπαινέσῃ. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Οὐ γὰρ οὖν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. ὋὉ δέ γε ἐν μὲν τῷ γεγραμμένῳ 
λόγῳ περὶ ἑκάστου παιδιάν τε ἡγούμενος πολλὴν 
ἀναγκαῖον εἶναι, καὶ οὐδένα πώποτε λόγον ἐν 
μέτρῳ οὐδ᾽ ἄνευ μέτρου μεγάλης ἄξιον em auaie 
γραφῆναι, οὐδὲ λεχθῆναι ὡς οἱ ῥαψῳδ οὕμενοι 
ἄνευ ἀνακρίσεως καὶ διδαχῆς πειθοῦς ἕνεκα ἐλέ- 
χθησαν," ἀλλὰ τῷ ὄντι αὐτῶν τοὺς βελτίστους 
εἰδότων. ὑπόμνησιν γεγονέναι, ἐν δὲ τοῖς διδασκο- 
μένοις καὶ μαθήσεως χάριν λεγομένοις καὶ τῷ 
ὄντι γραφομένοις ἐν ψυχῇ περὶ δικαίων τε καὶ 
καλῶν καὶ ἀγαθῶν μόνοις τό τε ἐναργὲς εἶναι καὶ 
τέλεον καὶ ἄξιον σπουδῆς" δεῖν δὲ τοὺς τοιούτους 


1 Schanz, following Schleiermacher, brackets νόμους τιθείς. 
2 Schanz brackets οὐδὲ. . ἐλέχθησαν. 


572 


PHAEDRUS 


pHAEDRUs. Yes, certainly, that is just about our 
result. 

socraTEs. How about the question whether it is 
a fine or a disgraceful thing to be a speaker or 
writer and under what circumstances the profession 
might properly be called a disgrace or not? Was 
that made clear a little while ago when we said— 

PHAEDRUS. What? 

socraTes. That if Lysias or anyone else ever 
wrote or ever shall write, in private, or in public as 
lawgiver, a political document, and in writing it 
believes that it possesses great certainty and clear- 
ness, then it is a disgrace to the writer, whether 
anyone Says so, or not. For whether one be awake 
or asleep, ignorance of right and wrong and good 
and bad is in truth inevitably a disgrace, even if the 
whole mob applaud it. 

pHAEDRUs. ‘That is true. 

socraTes. But the man who thinks that in the 
written word there is necessarily much that is 
playful, and that no written discourse, whether in 
metre or in prose, deserves to be treated very 
seriously (and this applies also to the recitations of 
the rhapsodes, delivered to sway people’s minds, 
without opportunity for questioning and teaching), 
but that the best of them really serve only to remind 
us of what we know; and who thinks that only in 
words about justice and beauty and goodness spoken 
by teachers for the sake of instruction and really 
written in a soul is clearness and perfection and 
serious value, that such words should be considered 


513 


PLATO 


λόγους αὑτοῦ λέγεσθαι οἷον υἱεῖς γνησίους εἶναι, 
πρῶτον μὲν τὸν ἐν αὑτῷ, ἐὰν εὑρεθεὶς ἐνῆ, ἔπειτα 
εἴ τινες τούτου ἔκγονοί τε καὶ ἀδελφοὶ ἅμα ἐν 
ἄλλαισιν ἄλλων ψυχαῖς κατ᾽ ἀξίαν ἐνέφυσαν" 
τοὺς δὲ ἄλλους χαίρειν ἐῶν --- οὗτος δὲ ὁ τοιοῦτος 
ἀνὴρ κινδυνεύει, ὦ Φαῖδρε, εἶναι οἷον ἐγώ τε καὶ 
σὺ εὐξαίμεθ᾽ ἂν σέ τε καὶ ἐμὲ γενέσθαι. 
ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. [Παντάπασι μὲν οὖν ἔγωγε βούλομαί 
τε καὶ εὔχομαι ἃ λέγεις. 
64. ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν ἤδη πεπαίσθω μετρίως 
ἡμῖν τὰ περὶ λόγων: καὶ σύ τε ἐλθὼν φράζε 
Λυσίᾳ, ὅτι νὼ καταβάντε εἰς τὸ Νυμφῶν νᾶμά τε 
καὶ μουσεῖον ἠκούσαμεν. λόγων, ot ἐπέστελλον 
λέγειν Λυσίᾳ τε καὶ εἴ τις ἄλλος συντίθησι 
λόγους, καὶ Ὁμήρῳ καὶ εἴ τις ἄλλος αὖ ποίησιν 
ψιλὴν ἢ ἢ ἐν ὠδῇ συντέθεικε, τρίτον 88 Σόλωνι καὶ 
ὅστις ἐν πολιτικοῖς λόγοις νόμους ὀνομάζων συγ- 
γράμματα ἔγραψεν' εἰ μὲν εἰδὼς ἡ τὸ ἀληθὲς ἔ ἔχει 
συνέθηκε ταῦτα, καὶ ἔχων βοηθεῖν εἰς ἔλεγχον 
ἰὼν περὶ ὧν ἔγραψε, καὶ λέγων αὐτὸς δυνατὸς τὰ 
γεγραμμένα φαῦλα ἀποδεῖξαι, οὔ τι τῶνδε ἐπωνυ- 
μίαν ἔχοντα δεῖ λέγεσθαι τὸν τοιοῦτον, ἀλλ᾽ ἐφ᾽ 
οἷς ἐσπούδακεν ἐ ἐκείνων. 
ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τίνας οὖν τὰς ἐπωνυμίας αὐτῷ νέμεις; 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ: Τὸ μὲν σοφόν, ὦ Φαῖδρε, καλεῖν 
ἔμοιγε μέγα εἶναι δοκεῖ καὶ θεῷ μόνῳ πρέπειν" τὸ 
δὲ ἢ “φιλόσοφον ἢ τοιοῦτόν τί μᾶλλόν τε ἂν αὐτῷ 
ἁρμόττοι καὶ ἐμμελεστέρως ἔχοι. 
ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Καὶ οὐδέν γε ἄπο τρόπου. 
ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν αὖ τὸν μὴ ἔχοντα τιμιώτερα 
ὧν συνέθηκεν ἢ ἔγραψεν ἄνω κάτω στρέφων ἐν 


574 


PHAEDRUS 


the speaker’s own legitimate offspring, first the word 
within himself, if it be found there, and secondly its 
descendants or brothers which may have sprung up in 
worthy manner in the souls of others, and who pays 
no attention to the other words,—that man, 
Phaedrus, is likely to be such as you and I might 
pray that we ourselves may become. 

pHAEDRus. By all means that is what I wish and 
pray for. 

socraTes. We have amused ourselves with talk 
about words long enough. Go and tell Lysias that 
you and I came down to the fountain and sacred 
place of the nymphs, and heard words which they 
told us to repeat to Lysias and anyone else who 
composed speeches, and to Homer or any other who 
has composed poetry with or without musical 
accompaniment, and third to Solon and whoever has 
written political compositions which he calls laws :— 
If he has composed his writings with knowledge of 
the truth, and is able to support them by discussion 
of that which he has written, and has the power to 
show by his own speech that the written words are 
of little worth, such a man ought not to derive his 
title from such writings, but from the serious 
pursuit which underlies them. 

pHAEDRUs, What titles do you grant them then? 

socraTes. I think, Phaedrus, that the epithet 
“wise’’ is too great and befits God alone; but the 
name “ philosopher,” that is, “lover of wisdom,” or 
something of the sort would be more fitting and 
modest for such a man. 

PHAEDRUs. And quite appropriate. 

socraTEs. On the other hand, he who has nothing 
more valuable than the things he has composed or 


575 


E 


279 


PLATO 


χρόνῳ, πρὸς ἄλληλα κολλῶν τε καὶ ἀφαιρῶν, ἐ ἐν 
δίκῃ που ποιητὴν ἢ λόγων συγγραφέα ἢ νομο- 
γράφον προσερεῖς; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τί μήν; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ταῦτα τοίνυν τῷ ἑταίρῳ φράζε. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τί δέ; σὺ πῶς ποιήσεις; οὐδὲ γὰρ 
οὐδὲ τὸν σὸν ἑταῖρον δεῖ παρελθεῖν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Τίνα τοῦτον; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. σοκράτη : τὸν καλόν' ᾧ τί ἀπαγγελεῖς, 
ὦ Σώκρατες; τίν᾽ αὐτὸν ήσομεν εἶναι; 

,ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Νέος ἔτι, a Φαῖδρε, Ἰσοκράτης" ὃ 
μέντοι μαντεύομαι κατ᾽ αὐτοῦ, λέγειν ἐθέλω. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τὸ ποῖον δή; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Δοκεῖ μοι ἀμείνων ἢ κατὰ τοὺς περὶ 
Λυσίαν εἶναι λόγους τὰ τῆς φύσεως, ἔτι τε ἤθει 
γεννικωτέρῳ κεκρᾶσθαι: ὥστε οὐδὲν ἂν γένοιτο 
θαυμαστὸν προϊούσης τῆς ἡλικίας εἰ περὶ αὐτούς 
τε τοὺς λόγους, οἷς νῦν ἐπιχειρεῖ, πλέον ἢ “παίδων 
διενέγκοι τῶν πώποτε ἁψαμένων λόγων, ἔτι τε εἰ 
αὐτῷ μὴ ᾿ἀποχρήσαι ταῦτα, ἐπὶ μείξω τίς αὐτὸν 
ἄγοι ὁρμὴ θειοτέρα' φύσει γάρ, ὦ φίλε, ἔ ἔνεστί τις 
φιλοσοφία τῇ τοῦ ἀνδρὸς διανοίᾳ. ταῦτα δὴ οὖν 
ἐγὼ μὲν παρὰ τῶνδε τῶν θεῶν ὡς ἐμοῖς παιδικοῖς 
ἸΙσοκράτει ἐξαγγέλλω, σὺ δ᾽ ἐκεῖνα ὡς σοῖς Λυσίᾳ. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Ταῦτα ἔ ἔσται: ἀλλὰ ἴωμεν, ἐπειδὴ καὶ 
τὸ πνῖγος ἠπιώτερον γέγονεν. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Οὐκοῦν εὐξαμένω πρέπει τοῖσδε 
πορεύεσθαι; 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Τί μήν; 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ὦ φίλε Πάν τε καὶ ἄλλοι ὅσοι τῆδε 
θεοί, δοίητέϊ μοι καλῷ γενέσθαι τἄνδοθεν" ἔξωθεν 

? Schanz reads δοῖτέ. 


576 


PHAEDRUS 


written, turning his words up and down at his 
leisure, adding this phrase and taking that away, will 
you not properly address him as poet or writer of 
speeches or of laws? 

PHAEDRUS, Certainly. 

socraTes. ‘Tell this then to your friend. 

PHAEDRUS. But what will you do? For your 
friend ought not to be passed by. 

socraTes. What friend? 

pHAEDRUs. The fair Isocrates. What message 
will you give him? What shall we say that he is? 

socraATes. Isocrates is young yet, Phaedrus ; how- 
ever, I am willing to say what I prophesy for him. 

PHAEDRus. What is it ? 

socraTes. I think he has a nature above the 
speeches of Lysias and possesses a nobler character ; so 
that I should not be surprised if, as he grows older, he 
should so excel in his present studies that all who have 
ever treated of rhetoric shall seem less than children ; 
and I suspect that these studies will not satisfy him, 
but a more divine impulse will lead him to greater 
things; for my friend, something of philosophy is 
inborn in his mind. This is the message that I carry 
from these deities to my favourite Isocrates, and do 
you carry the other to Lysias, your favourite. 

PHAEDRUS. It shall be done; but now let us go, 
since the heat has grown gentler. 

socraTEs. Is it not well to pray to the deities 
here before we go? 

PHAEDRus. Of course. 

socraTEs. O beloved Pan and all ye other gods 
of this place, grant to me that I be made beautiful 


577 


PLATO 


δὲ ὅσα ἔχω, τοῖς ἐντὸς εἶναί μοι φίλια. πλούσιον 
σ δὲ νομίζοιμι τὸν σοφόν' τὸ δὲ χρυσοῦ πλῆθος εἴη 

μοι ὅσον μήτε φέρειν μήτε ἄγειν δύναιτ᾽ «ἄλλος ἢ ὁ 
σώφρων.--- Er’ ἄλλου του δεόμεθα, ὦ Φαῖδρε; 
ἐμοὶ μὲν γὰρ μετρίως ηὗκται. 

ΦΑΙΔΡΟΣ. Καὶ ἐμοὶ ταῦτα συνεύχον᾽ κοινὰ γὰρ 
τὰ τῶν φίλων. 

ΣΩΚΡΑΤΗΣ. Ἴωμεν. 


578 


PHAEDRUS 


in my soul within, and that all external possessions be 
in harmony with my inner man. May I consider the 
wise man rich ; and may I have such wealth as only 
the self-restrained man can bear or endure.—Do we 
need anything more, Phaedrus? For me that 
prayer is enough. 

PHAEDRUS. Let me also share in this prayer; for 
friends have all things in common. 

SOCRATES. Let us go. 


5.19 


τ Teas ind ddpian ΕΣ 
= SUELO hi egeisds its saat sath 


SEPATH 1, ων op en ie. νῆσοι, 


72 


INDEX 


ACHELODS, 423, 527 

Acheron, 385, 389 

Acherusian Lake, 387, 389 

Acumenus, 410, 413, 541 

Adimantus, 121 

Adonis, garden of, 567 

Adrastus, 545 

Aeacus, 143 

Aeantodorus, 121 

Aeschines, 121, 199, 207 

Aeschylus, 371 

Aesculapius, 403 

Aesop, 209, 211, 213 

Ajax, 143 

Ammon, 563, 565 

Amphipolis, 105 

Anacreon, 437 

Anaxagoras, 99, 251, 335, 337, 547 

Antiphon, 121, 199 

Antisthenes, 199 

Antitheus, 207 

Anytus, 63, 91, 95, 103, 109, 111, 
115. 195. 197 

Aphrodite, 461, 533 

Apollo, 203, 211, 295, 493, 533 

Avollodorus; 121, 198, 205, 207, 
4 

Ares, 491 

Aristippus, 207 

Aristo, 121 

Aristobulus, 135 

Aristophanes, 63, 66, 75 

Atlas, 341 

Aulus Gellius, 198 


Boreas, 419, 421 


Cadmus, 329 
Callias, 77 


Calliope, 513 

Cebes, 159, 197, 198, 207, 211-219, 
223, 241-257, 269-275, 279-293, 
297, 301, 309, 315, 317, 329-333, 
τ 10. 353, 355, 359, 365, 369, 

Cephalus, 409, 413, 527 

Chaerephon, 81 

Cleombrotus, 207 

Cocytus, 387 

Cratinus, 63 

Crete, 185 

Crito, 121, 135, 148, 151-191 
aa 198, 199, 209, 221, 393- 


Critobulus, 121, 135, 199, 207 
Cronus, 29 

Ctesippus, 199, 207 

Cybele, 191 


Deedalus, 41, 43, 57 
Darius, 509 

Delium, 105 

Delos, 153 

Delphi, 81 

Demodocus, 121 
Demophon, 199 

Diogenes Laertius, 148, 410 
Dionysus, 533 

Dog, oath, 341, 417 


Earth, its size and nature, 375 #79. 

Echecrates, 198, 201-207, 307, 309, 
349, 351, 399, 403 

Egypt, 561, 563 

Endymion, 251 

Epicrates, 411, 413 

Epigenes, 121, 199 

Erato, 513 


581 


INDEX 


Eros, 533 (see Love). 
Eryximachus, 410, 541 

Euclides, 199, 207 

Euphemus, 465 

Euripides, 543 

Euthyphro, 3-59 passim. 

Evenus, 79, 199, 211, 213, 411, 537 


Glaucus, 373 
Gorgias, 77, 410, 519, 537 


Harmonia, 327 

Hector, 105 

Helen, 461 

Hephaestus. 29 

Hera, 29, 95, 423, 493 

Heracles, 13, 309; pillars of, 375 

Hermes, 527 

Hermogenes, 199 

Herodicus, 411, 415 

Hesiod, 143 

Hestia, 475 

Hippias, 77, 411, 539 

Hippocrates, 410, 549 

Hipponicus, 77, 199 | 

Holiness, 19-59 passim. 

Homer, 1057., 123, 143, 155 η., 
327, 461, 575 


Ideas, doctrine of, 257 sqq., 408 

Nlissus, 419 Ἶ 

Immortality, 195, 219-395 passim, 
469 859. 

Jolaus, 309 

Isocrates 410, 577 


Lacedaemon, 185 


invention and use of, 
561 sqq. 

Licymnius, 411, 539 

Locusts, 511 84. 

Love, speech of Lysias, 425-435; 
first speech of Socrates, 443-457; 
second speech of Socrates, 465- 


505 

Lyco, 63, 91, 127 

Lycurgus, 509 

Lysanias, 121 

Lysias, 409, 413, 415, 419, 437, 439, 
461-465, 505, 509, 523, 627, 535, 
547, 571-577 


Megara, 185 
582 


Meletus, 7, 9, 17, 19, 47, 63, 67, 75, 
91 10s, 1115 115 1521. 195. 19}. 

Menedemus, 198 

Menexenus, 199, 207 

Midas, 529, 531 

Minos, 143 

Monier: of Socrates, 11, 66, 115, 

3 


Morychus, 411, 413 

Musaeus, 143 

Muses, worshipped by locusts, 511 
86. 


Naucratis, 561 
Nestor, 519 
Nicostratus, 121 


Oceanus, 385 
Odysseus, 143, 327, 519 
Oreithyia, 419 
Orpheus, 143 


Palamedes, 143, 410, 519, 521 

Pan, 527, 577 

Paralus, 121 

Patroclus, 105 

Penelope, 291 

Pericles, 545, 547 

Phaedo, 198, 201-207, 307, 309, 
313, 349, 351 

Phaedonides, 199, 207 

Phaedrus, 410, 413-579 passim. 

Pharmacea, 421 

Phasis, 375 

Philolaus, 215 

Piety, 19-59 passim. 

Pindar, 415 

Plato; 191. 155; 207 

Polus, 411, 539 

Potidaea, 105 

Prodicus, 77, 411, 539 

Protagoras, 410, 539 

Proteus, 59 

Pyriphlegethon, 387, 389 

Pythia, 81 

Pythocles, 410, 465 


Recollection, doctrine of, 253-269 
Rhadamanthus, 143 
Rhetoric, 407, 505-575 


Sappho, 437 
Sibyl, 465 


INDEX 


Siclly, 383 

Simmias, 159, 197, 198, 207, 213, 
215, 219- 241, 253- 257, 263- ὩΤΊ, 
281, 287, 293- 297, 301, 303, 309, 
315-323, 329, 349, 861, 369, 373- 
377, 391, 393, 459 

Sisyphus, 143 

Socrates, passim. 

Solon, 509, 575 

Sophocles, 54% 

Soul, immortality of, 195, 219-395 

passim ; compared to a harmony, 

297~-301; nota harmony, 317-327, 
469-470; likened to charioteer 
and horses, 471 sqq. 

Stasinus, 45 n. 

Stesichorus, 461, 465 

Stygian river, 387 

Styx, 387 


Tantalus, 43 
Tartarus, 383-389 
Telamon, 143 
Telephus, 371 
Terpsichore, 513 
Terpsion, 199, 207 


Thamus, 563 

Theages, 121 

Thebes, 159, 185 
Theodorus, 411, 619, 537 
Theodotus, 121° 
Theozotides, 121 
Theseus, 208 

Thessaly, 159, 187, 189 
Thetis, 105 

Theuth, 661, 563 
Thrasymachus, 411, 519, 535, 547, 
Tistas, 411, 539, 557, 559 
Triptolemus, 143 

Troy, 105, 143 


Urania, 513 
Uranus, 29 


Xanthippe, 209 
Xenophon, 63, 65, 117 n., 198 


Zeno, 410, 521 

Zeus, 13, 17-21, 45-51, 99, 223, 
313, 327, 335, 840, 435, 475, 491, 
519, 565 


583 


᾿ pat i 


Ο 5 τὶ 
δ, δ ΣΟ ΣΝ, 
= ΑἹ ὁ ar 
Howth 20h can Ot hth sah 
: shedeion, = Ai oleae 
Pe. Soe τὴ (a (ὍΣ park 
πολι, Ἐν" ΙΝ Ot) 278 
Meruie ΜΕῚ δ samy ᾿ 
νη αν ‘oe Hg Vow m os 
nid ieee wit sey το, GO Ἐπὶ ΝΥΝ 
ἡ φρώϊε aw preg αἰνῆς, AW 
arm ΗΟ. υδϑούψομαῦ οὐ, Ἰῷ 


he aay, ΤΗΝ a a] ᾿ 
ἣ wee: 5. int a a i 
δ ἀραὶ Pee, 227; 077 | 

ae fa? Pavel. 181 ; 


Ὁ oa iy a τι ὌΝ ῃ Ai a 


i δίὁ ῃ soi 
: heady δε. ΓΜ ᾿ 
iene, ermipes ὦ ΕἼ εν. 4S Sma Ια, Ὁ. ΠῚ 
(fuses, 435 Ἢ 51} 44%, Pei one 
δ, ISR ΦιοΟ ὧν o=met ol ees 1 
WSO ey, ἡ σοῦ ἐς 570 εἰ μᾶτύ ὦ 


alee δὲ ᾿ 


δὲ Ἀρίαν, vis 


Ἰοίαδα, 07 : 
leontalon G10, 24; 


pachdlativa, Το 
ean, BLT «ὶ 

(eter, tevecsion «ὦ. ἂν αὐ ΤΥ 
SO] wiry, 

Laue lis at, Ps 7 

Ἕ cri. ὃ Shia 

Ravers, ὥ tee emtcy if 
: pat a ey ete 


ee hata »-. 


| Tiga ee 


a re ΚΝ 
γὴν batts jad. _ ~ 


SL 


Ἧι ee 


oN 
ἣν ᾿ Jo 


I a ᾿ 


τν 


ot} an ὦ... 


ἀπ νυ. 
8 


ἜΝ 


ἡ At 
' Ν ; ἫΝ Ro 
! 
τ 


j 
S 


MAY10 


about general concepts and absolute being; 
Theaetetus reasons about the theory of 
knowledge. Of its sequels, Sophist deals 
with not-being; Politicus with good and bad 
statesmanship and governments; Philebus 
with what is good. The Timaeus seeks the 
origin of the visible universe out of abstract 
geometrical elements. The unfinished Cri- 
tias treats of lost Atlantis. Unfinished also 
is Plato’s last work, Laws, a critical dis- 
cussion of principles of law which Plato 


thought the Greeks might accept. 


The Loeb Classical Library edition of Plato 


is in twelve volumes. 


The Loeb Classical Library is the only existing 
series of books. which, through original text 
and English translation, gives access to all that 
is important in Greek and Latin literature. A 
list of titles is available from Harvard Univer- 
sity Press and at www.hup.harvard.edu/loeb. 


LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY” isa registered trademark of the 
President and Fellows of Harvard College. 


Other philosophers in the 
Loeb Classical Library 


ARISTOTLE 
MARCUS AURELIUS 
EPICTETUS 
PHILO 
SEXTUS EMPIRICUS 
BOETHIUS 
LUCRETIUS 
CICERO 
SENECA 
PLOTINUS 


